"That's  an  architect's  sketch  but  there  wilt  be  some  changes,  "  Dr.  William 
Homisak  said,  referring  to  the  cover  sketch  of  the  groundbreaking  ceremony 
invitations. 

Dr.  Homisak  pointed  out  that  some  minor  details  will  be  different  but  the 
general  appearance  will  be  much  like  it  is  shown  in  the  sketch, 
said,  'that's  the  architect's  conception  of  the  way  it'll  be.  " 


Groundbreaking  tomorrow 


Groundbreaking  for  Stage  I  of  the  col- 
lege building  program  has  been  set  for 
Wednesday.  Sept.  5. 

A  ceremony  is  planned  on  the  site  just 
west  of  the  administration  building  (unit  6) 
atlO:30a.m 

Representatives  of  the  State  Depart- 
ment of  Education,  the  State  Public  School 
Building  Authority,  local  government  offi- 
cials and  SEDA-COG  will  be  among  guests 
invited  to  participate,  according  to  Or. 
William  H  Homisak.  assistant  to  the 
president 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


ei?BUlilJEGJU 


y  V. 


Q     Tuesday,  Sept.    4,1979      Vol.  15,  No.  1       4  Pages         ~) 


Classes  start  on  time, 
contract  accord  set 


On  Friday,  Aug.  24,  at  3  a.m.,  negotia- 
tion teams  of  the  college  and  Williamsport 
Area  Community  College  Education  Asso- 
ciation, (WACCEA).  came  to  a  tentative 
agreement. 

The  tentative  agreement  was  the  product 
of  almost  five  months  of  negotiations  be- 
fore the  contract  expired  at  midnight,  Sun- 
day. Aug.  19- 

Although  the  convocation  of  Postsec- 
ondary  faculty  was  canceled  while  nego- 
tiations were  beind  held,  late  registration 
took  place  on  Monday,  Aug,  20,  as  sched- 
uled. 

John  R.  Brunette,  Pennsylvania  State 
Education  Association  area  representa- 
tive, chief  negotiator  for  the  faculty,  re- 
ported that  faculty  members  who  showed 
up  for  convocation  "were  told  there  is  no 
work".  Brunette  also  stated  that  he  con- 
sidered the  situation  at  that  point  in  time 
asa  "lockout". 

According  to  Carl  M.  Hillyard.  president 
of  the  WACCEA.  the  association  offered  to 
extend  its  expiring  contract  while  nego- 
tiations continued  for  a  new  one. 

However,  College  Trustees  took  the 
position  that  classes  would  not  start  unless 
an  agreement  was  reached  because  of  the 
hardships  that  would  be  imposed  on  stu- 
dents and  the  economic  effect  on  the  col- 
lege if  a  work  stoppage  occurred  during 
the  fall  semester. 

The  reason  for  the  board's  action  was 
that  six  years  ago  the  Board  allowed  the 
fall  term  to  begin  while  negotiations  were 
still  being  held,  and  during  the  term  the 


Earth  Science  hii.s  service  limes 

The  Earth  Science  campus  bus  leaves 
the  Lair  at  7:15  a.m.  and  10:15  am,.  The 
bus  leaves  the  Earth  Science  building  at 
1:05  p.m.  every  day  and  at  5  p.m.  Monday. 
Wednesday,  Thursday;  at  3:35  p.m.  Tues- 
day, and  at  4  p.m.  Friday. 


faculty  engaged  in  a  work  stoppage 
causing  confusion  and  hardships  for  stu- 
dents. 

Both  sides  expressed  satisfaction  with 
the  new  two-year  contract. 

"We  feel,  the  negotiation  team  felt  it  was 
a  fair  contract",  said  Hillyard. 

The  contract  made  provisions  for  a 
$1,200  increase  this  year  for  postsecondary 
faculty  who  work  172  days.  Also,  other  bar- 
gaining unit  members  (who  work  varying 
schedules),  will  receive  prorated  in- 
creases. 

Other  provisions  provided  are  improved 
hospital  and  major  medical  coverage. 
Also,  raises  in  the  mileage  reimbursement 


SGA  president 
lists  activities 

What  does  the  Student  Government  Asso- 
ciation (SGA)  have  planned  for  this 
semester'' 

According  to  Robert  E.  Thomas,  SGA 
president,  the  organization  has  quite  a  few 
things  in  the  works, 

Thomas  said  the  SGA  has  a  picnic 
planned  this  month  at  the  Earth  Science 
complex  at  Allenwood,  a  skating  party  to 
be  held  at  Skateland  USA,  on  the  Lycom- 
ing Creek  Road,  and  the  Fall  Event, 

Thomas  was  not  specific  at>out  the  date 
of  the  skating  party,  but  emphasized  the 
need  for  college  student  identification 
cards  in  order  to  get  in. 

According  to  Thomas,  the  skating  party 
will  be  free  to  anyone  with  a  current 
college  identification  card.  He  said  those 

iriea^f  turn  In  l\tfip  At 


from  16  to  18  cents  per  mile  during  the  first     Outing  Club  sets  first  meeting 
year,  according  to  Dr.  William  H.  Fedder-         ^he  Outing  Club  will  hold  its  first  meet- 
sen,  college  president.  i^g  tomorrow  at  4  p.m  in  Room  229  of  the 
Klump   Academic   Center,   according   to 
Roger  E.Davis,  advisor 


Maximum  tuition  credit  reimbursement 

iPlease  turn  to  Pa^e  M 


SGA  organization 
meeting  today 

The  Student  Government  Association 
will  hold  its  first  meeting  of  the  semester 

today  al  4  p.m  in  Room  132.  KJump  Aca- 
demic Center, 

The  meeting  is  an  open  organizational 
meeting  which  will  include  discussion 
about  electing  officers  and  senators, 
according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  Fremiotli,  stu- 
dent activities  assistant. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  said  that  anyone  who  is 
concerned  about  anything  to  do  with  the 
college  should  attend  the  meeting.  She 
added.  "They  should  really  get  out  (to 
attend  the  meeting)  if  they  have  questions 
about  anything." 

Theater  company  meets 

This  year's  first  Theater  Company  meet- 
ing will  be  held  Tuesday,  Sept.  4,  at  7  p.m., 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

On  Thursday,  Sept.  6.  at  7  p.m  there  will 
be  another  meeting  of  the  Theater  Com- 
pany 


Message  of  welcome  from  president 


Dear  Student: 

In  my  opinion.  The  SPOTLIGHT  is  one  of 
the  finest  community  college  newspapers 
in  the  country  I  hope  that  all  students  will 
join  me  each  week  in  readmg  each  issue. 
Campus  communication  is  extremely  im- 
portant in  a  complex  multi-campus  college 
like  WACC  and  The  SPOTLIGHT  plays  a 
vital  role  in  keeping  us  all  better  informed 
about  what's  happening. 

This  year,  you  will  find  a  lot  of  activity 
relating  to  the  construction  of  three  new 
facilities.  After  years  of  planning,  the  Col- 
lege will  finally  begin  to  implement  what 
we  call  Phase  I-Stage  I  of  our  approved 
Facilities  and  Site  Master  Plan  These  im- 
provements will  greatly  enhance  the 
campus  environment  plus  provide  badly 
needed  and  improved  educational 
facilities.  However.  during  the 
construction  phase  we  will  be  inconven- 


ienced somewhat  by  having  to  work 
around  the  construction  activity.  Two  new 
temporary  parking  lots  are  being  provided 
to  offset  parking  loss  in  the  construction 
areas.  Everyone's  patience  and 
understanding  will  ease  the  burden  of  this 
temporary  inconvenience.  The 
SPOTLIGHT  will  keep  you  informed  as 
this  activity  commences. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  have  this 
opportunity  to  welcome  you  back  to 
WACC,  I  am  looking  forward  to  working 
with  the  student  body,  faculty,  and  admin- 
istration to  facilitate  and  support  the 
learning  process. 

Best  regards  to  each  of  you  as  you  begin 
or  continue  your  studies  at  WACC. 

Sincerely. 

William  H.  Feddersen 

President 


Page  2  SPOTLIGHT  Sepl^J97^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

VIEWPOINT 

Whadd'ya' say.  .  .?  "•°^°'      Who  really  won? 

Are  yoo  so.sf/ed  w//h  your  ^^'^^  ^i^^r'^  "o::^,  .r;:i:r:;;::7H::r"""^ """  ^°' ''""'""  °"""  "^ 

housing  this  semester?           Schmuck  The  sway  of  negotiations  from  hopeful  to  hopeless  and  finally  ac- 

Photos  by  Dwight  Schmuck  cord  kept  students  in  a  constont  crisis  situation. 

Would  classes  begin  on  time  or  be  delayed?  Should  aportments  be 
rented,  cars  be  sold,  jobs  foresoken  or  taken,  or  should  it  all  be  fore- 
stalled until  the  negotiotions  reach  an  end  or  tmposse? 

^%^*,.  .•  Veterans  and  others  receiving  various  stipends  and  benefits  de- 

^  .  ,  pendant  on  their  college  attendance  were  even  further  effected  by 

-  ,Ofe  possible  financial  turmoil. 

.       -Iiill  Glosses  storied  on  time,  yes.  But  who  con  compensate  the  students, 
who  are  the  consumers  ond  financiers  of  the  educational  commodity. 

■  ^^  for  the  lack  of  an  assured  dote  to  plon  toword? 

'  The  faculty  may  be  sotisfied  with  the  contract,  the  college  may  be 

^  ^^^^  ^       ,^^                     gg^^^^^,^m^  ^^  satisfied  with  it,  but  those  who  ultimotely  pay  for  all  that  satisfaction 

■^  ^^"     ^       ^*                     ^^^^M.          ^1  had  no  votce  in  the  negotiations. 

^^^^^^^^^  Students  ore  expected  to  attend  classes  regularly  and  to  c6mplete 

A^^^^^^^^^mL     ^1  course  requirements,  or  they  receive  no  credit  for  a  course.  Why  then 

^^^^^^^Hr^^H  shouldn't   the   tuition-payers    require   that   faculty   ond   management 

^^^^^^^^^^^V               I  complete    contract    negotiations    on    a    deadline    well    ahead    of    a 

^^^^^^^I^^^^M  scheduled  semester? 

_                                                              HIBBBBI^Hl-r            I  Classes  were  not  delayed,  not  this  time.  But  the  students'  toss  in 

Teresa  Engel,  Williamsport.  gener-          Pam  Singer,  Williomsport,  indepen-  educafionol  continuity,  finonces  and  the  college's  credibility  cannot  be 

al  studies-  "Yeah    'cause  I'm  living  at     dent  studies:  "Yeah.  I'm  married  so  it  measured  as  con  the  concrete  gains  made  by  the  negotiating  teams. 

^       ^^^C  f™ni  My  "''S''  IS  written  by  stall  members  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  who  wish  lo 

^^^j^^^JHHP  commenl  nn  subjects  of  irdividual  interest.  Opinions  expressed  may  or  may  nol 

k.                                                    '  '^I^Hsl^^J  '''■'"''''  '^"^  "P'"'""  "'  ■'''"'  SPOTLIGHT, 

^                          r~     ^^^^jW*"^  The  gas  shortage:  who  is  responsible? 

^H                                                     ^^UW^  staff  Writer 

^^                                                      ^BWf  The  blome  for  the  fuel  shortage  is  constantly  being  transferred  from 

.                                                           mti     "^  °"^  9^°"P  '°  ano'^ier.   The  oil  nations  are  blamed  for  raising  their 

I                                                ^     ^^f    ^A  prices.  Gas  companies  are  being  blomed  for  holding  bock  fuel  and 

.    J^                                        ^V         ^          ^^^       „;  forcing  shortages,  thus  raising  prices  ogain.  The  government  is  being 

T^    'if  \                            H            (          ^B       V  blamed  tor  being  unoble  to  handle  the  energy  situation.  And,  Ameri- 

^  I  ,     /           \                                ^M                        ^Hf      \  cons  ore  being  blamed  tor  wasteful  usage  of  natural  resources. 

■|-ir^\*^pi      (lA^                             ^1                          ^L  It  is  easy  to  blame  others,  but  that  does  not  help  alleviate  the  fuel 

^^                         ^H  shortage. 

^K                       i^V  Other  sources  of  energy  ore  being  investigated,  but  a  practical  re- 
source of  energy  is  still  years  off. 

Bob         Thomas,          Mifflinburg,          Joyce     Calehuff,     Montoursville,  All  of  us  must  try  to  conserve  energy  the  best  we  con, 

iournolism:    Yeoh,  for  the  most  port,      horticulture:    "Yeah.    I'm   a   part-time  Remember   every  ounce  of  fuel  we  save  also  saves  us  money 

There's    olways    a    few     Mttle    things        ^,^,^^,  ,^^,  ^^.^^  ,„^,„  ,...:.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:.:.::.:.:.:.:.:.:'.:.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:.:.:  x.:.^                                           ,.,:,,,,,,,,^;,,,^,,,,,^: 

"""'  The  SPOTLIGHT 

j1    f^tritrif^ni/Ji  First  Ploce  Award  winner 

[^LS  U    V  ^L^t^  The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The    SPOUIGHT    «<l    ms    I  firs    frm  The  SPOTLIGHT  IS  pub/lshed  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  yeor, 

reoders    tellers  (or  puW.col.on  must  be  oo  except  for  officio/ co/lege  vocations,  by  (ourno/ism 

longer  ihon  250  words    All  tellers  musi  be  ond  Other  interested  Students,  Office 

signed  with  Die  writers  nome,  oddress,  ond  Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement).  Telephone   f7l7) 

telephone  number  326-376  I ,  Extension  22 1 . 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn, 

j4             I         I       .1            I  Member,  Pennsylvonio  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

Monday  s  the  day  ..            .^                                 ,.  „    .        , 

,        _,_  P   ll  '  '  Managing  tdifor Mollie  S    Tomlinson 

*  ^BJ  Editors   Note:    Due   to  the   Labor  Day  Compus  Editor Jan  L.   Daniel 

ro^'lT'  T  'T  "V"'  1""°'"'',? "■^.''  Associate  Campus  Editor John  F.  Zelewicz 

•             coming  out   on  Tuesday    Normally,   the  c              <--i 

I  newspaper  will  be  distributed  each  Mon-  Sports  Editor Jacqueline  J    Cardene 

1  day  throughout  the  year.  There  are  distri-  Phofogrophy  Editor Dwiqht  E    Schmuck 

Jj             bution  points  around  the  campus -usually  c               c.    ri  r>            .                                                         «        i^    ^       i     i 

Wi  at  the  mam  entrances  lo  each  building  We  senior  i/off  Reporter Brad  E.  English 

.       .„      ,             ,                                 hopetheSPOTLIGHTwillbeusefulandin-  Reporters.  Robert  J    A//en,  Donna  L.  Ginter,  John  L    Ric- 

^^Tom^Winslow,  Lock  Haven,  graphic      <::;:^Z:-;;;::iZ ,^^::;^r'''  '^^''    ^-^-'^    ^     ^'^e/e,    Lorry    G.    Steele.    Robert    E. 

,  Thomas,  Christina  N.  Weibley 

Signs  help  newcomers   through  Klump  stoH  Artist Michael  tekites 

^    ■      ..     ,  ,     ,   ,  ,_     J      J  ,  ,  Contributing  Reporter Gail  M.  Thompson 

Duringthefirst  week  of  classes,  handmade  signs  showing  directions  c,    it  a          ,.       ^                                                                 -,           ,       .    \-      , 

to  various  rooms  appeared  ,n  Klump  Academic  Center.  ^'°''  A"'^'°"' T'^^othy  A    Tofh 

The  signs  were  the  result  o(  on  idea  of  Dr.  David  M,  Heiney  and  the  

implementation  by  Mrs.  Margaret  Metzger  Production  Team  This  Issue:  Mollie  Tomlinson,  supervisor:   Robert  E, 

Certainly,  the  signs  were  helpful  to  those  trying  to  find  their  way  Thomas,  Donno  L   Gmter,  John  L,  Rickerl,  ond  Christina  N    Weibley. 

around  for  the  first  time  I  ............ 


:::«=ssMs>s::^v:wmw:¥?Parking  cHangcs^ 


Two  new  parking  lots  will  be  available 
for  student  useage  this  year. 

The  first  is  a  vacant  lot  located  at  the 
comer  of  Park  and  First  Streets. 

The  lot  has  been  leased  by  the  college  to 
be  used  for  parking  displaced  by  the 
building  program.  The  lot.  owned  by 
Williamsport  National  Bank,  will  cost  the 
college  payment  of  taxes  on  the  property. 

Earth  Science  Division  students  using 
heavy  equiptment  will  level  the  lot  to 
ready  it  for  use. 

The  second  parking  lot  available  for 
student  useage  is  a  fence-enclosed  lot  lo- 
cated directly  behind  the  Physical  Plant. 

Students  may  park  there  from  7  a.m.  to  5 
p.m.  Cars  still  remaining  in  the  fenced  lot 
after  5  p.m.  will  be  secured  in  tot. 

"All  vehicles  using  campus  parking  lots 
must  be  registered,"  according  to 
Lawrence  P  Smeak.  chief  security  officer. 

Returning  students  must  also  register 
for  new  stickers 

Vehicles  may  be  registered  in  Room  108, 


Klump  Academic  Center  from  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday. 

Current  school  stickers  are  to  be 
displayed  on  the  right  rear  bumper. 

Fines  for  parking  violations  are  $1. 
Fines  not  paid  within  ten  days  shall  be 
assessed  to  $5,  and  after  20  days  $10 

According  to  material  from  James  O 
Tule.  executive  assistant  to  the  president, 
the  lots  between  Unit  6  and  the  Gym  will  be 
closed  to  allow  for  the  demolition  of 
bleachers  and  the  construction  of  the  new 
learning  resources  center  and  building 
trades  center. 

Also,  the  parking  lot  adjoined  by  Third 
St..  Susquehanna  St.,  and  the  Machine 
Shop  is  going  to  be  kept  closed  for  the 
construction  of  the  new  welding  facility 

Fines  are  payable  in  the  Security  Office, 

During  ground  breaking,  tentatively 
scheduled  for  Sept.  5,  the  parking  lot  be- 
tween Unit  6  and  the  Gym  will  be  roped  off 
for  guests,  according  to  Smeak, 


Meeting  planned    Repairs  made 
during  summer 


The  Wildcat  Band  will  be  having  its  first 
meeting  of  this  semester  today  at  4  p.m.  in 
Room  402  or  403  in  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Richard  E.  Adams,  director  of  the  band, 
said  that  anyone  Interested  in  playing  in 
the  band  should  come  to  the  meeting. 

Adams  also  stated  that  the  band  has 
access  to  some  instruments  and  will  be 
able  to  supply  the  instruments  to  people 
interested  in  joining  but  do  not  own  instru- 
ments. 

The  Wildcat  Band  plays  mostly  pep 
band,  and  marching  band  styles  of  music, 
according  to  Adams. 

Adams  also  added  that  the  band  will  try 
to  play  for  home  basketball  games  in  the 
gym  and  other  special  functions. 

Last  year,  the  Wildcat  Band  played  at 
the  Hope  Enterprises  Special  Olympics. 

Regular  meetings  for  the  Wildcat  Band 
will  be  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  from  4  to  6 
p.m,,  in  Room  402  or  403,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Student  activities  set 

Today  —  There  will  be  a  roller  skating 
party  sponsored  by  the  Student  Govern- 
ment Association  for  students.  Free  bus 
transportation  will  be  provided  from  Bar- 
do  Gym  to  Skateland  U.S.A.  The  party  will 
be  from  8  to  11  p.m.  with  a  bus  leaving  at 
7:30.  Admission  is  free  and  there  is  a  75- 
cent  charge  for  skate  rental.  The  bus  will 
return  to  the  gym  after  the  party.  Any 
student  interested  in  going  may  sign  up  at 
the  Communication  Center 

Tomorrow  —  Advisory  Council  meeting. 
All  advisors  are  asked  to  be  in  Room  207, 
Klump  Academic  Center  at  3  p.m. 

Tomorrow  —  Dance  in  Lair  8  to  mid- 
night. There  will  be  a  fee, 

Thursday,  Sept.  6  -  Student 
Government  Association,  free  coffee  and 
frisbee  fun.  This  will  be  held  on  the  front 
lawn  of  Klump  Academic  Center,  There 
will  be  free  coffee  and  a  frisbee  demon- 
stration. Students  will  then  be  asked  to  join 
in  the  frisbee  fun  Jerusalem  will  provide 
the  music  from  3  to?  p,m, 

Tuesday,  Sept,  11  —  Free  tour  arid  picnic 
at  Earth  Science  Center  in  Allenwood. 
Free  food,  games,  and  bluegrass  music 
will  be  provided.  Buses  will  leave  Bardo 
Gym  at  3:30  p,m.  and  return  there  after 
the  picnic.  All  interested  students  should 
sign  up  at  the  Communication  Center  in 
Klump. 

There  are  two  bulletin  boards  located  in 
Klump  for  student  use. 

The  one  to  the  left  of  the  main  entrance 
is  for  students  who  need  a  ride  to  classes  or 
would  like  to  take  on  a  rider. 

The  other  board  is  for  students  that  have 
an  item  for  sale  or  a  particular  item  that 
they  would  like  to  buy  This  is  located  to 
the  right  of  the  entrance. 

The  Communication  Center  is  located  on 
first  floor  of  Klump  Academic  Center  be- 
tween the  two  display  cases. 


The  mamtenance  crew  was  kept  busy 
throughout  the  summer  season  with  a  wide 
variety  of  jobs :  from  boilers  to  restrooms. 

The  biggest  job  of  the  summer  was  a  re- 
construction project  at  the  Aviation  Build- 
ing at  the  Montoursville  Airport. 

This  project  consisted  of  tearing  down 
the  hanger  doors  and  replacing  them  with 
cement  blocks.  This  was  done  to  conserve 
energy  and  to  improve  the  appearance  of 
the  building. 

Another  fairly  large  job  involved  the  40- 
to-50-year-old  boilers  which  all  had  to  be 
repaired  at  a  substantial  cost. 

The  Klump  Academic  Center  didn't  go 
without  work  during  the  summer  months. 
A  crew  of  11  student  workers  was  hired  to 
help  paint  the  stairwells  and  the  walls  of 
the  first  floor.  There  is  still  work  being 
done  on  the  women's  restroom  on  the  first 
floor 

With  the  help  of  several  student  workers 
there  were  two  new  parking  lots 
constructed  to  try  to  lighten  the  student 
parking  problem  caused  by  the  closing  of 
the  parking  lot  on  the  corner  of  West  Third 
and  Susquehanna  Streets 

Other  projects  during  the  summer  were 
labelled  "usual  routine  summer  work," 
This  consisted  mainly  of  changing  locks, 
waxing  floors,  general  cleaning  and  other 
small  jobs. 

The  Globe  Theatre  burned  to  the  ground 
in  1613  during  a  performance  of  Henry 

vni, 


SGA 


iCnntimuul  from  Pa^e  It 

without  college  identification  would  not  be 
allowed  in. 

Thomas  said  the  Fall  Event  is  the  main 
project  the  SGA  has  going  now.  The  Event, 
which  will  be  held  the  first  week  of  Octo- 
ber, will  consist  of  a  large  concert,  a 
smaller  concert,  a  dance,  and  folk  singers, 
said  Thomas. 

The  large  concert  will  feature  the  re- 
cording group  of  Blood.  Sweat  &  Tears 
with  David  Clayton-Thomas,  according  to 
the  SGA  president. 

Thomas  noted  the  SGA  needs  more  stu- 
dent support  and  response.  He  said  student 
response  was  poor  last  year  and  the  organ- 
ization is  hoping  for  a  better  turnout  of 
students  for  positions  and  as  volunteers 
this  year. 

Thomas  said  the  SGA  is  looking  for  a 
vice  president  and  a  secretary  to  complete 
the  officer  positions  He  said  anyone  inter- 
ested should  see  him.  or  Mrs  Jo  Ann 
Fremiolti.  the  student  activities  assistant, 

He  said  there  is  an  upcoming  senatorial 
election  and  interested  parties  should  see 
him,  Mrs  Fremiotti,  or  Frank  J,  Bowes, 
director  of  student  activities. 


Part-time  workers  sanded  and 
painted  woodwork  and  repainted 
hallways  and  ceilings  on  the  first 
floor  of  Klump  Academic  Center 
during  June  and  July. 

College  calendar  revised 

The  college's  traditional  one-week 
winter  break  has  been  eliminated  in  favor 
of  adding  one  day  to  spring  vacation.  April 
3,  4.  and  7. 

The  calendar  change  was  discussed  and 
approved  by  the  calendar  committee  at  a 
board  of  trustees  meeting  last  March, 

New  members 
sought  by  club 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  iPBL)  will  begin  re 
cruiting  new  members  today.  The  recruit- 
ment will  last  through  Friday,  but  new 
members  will  be  accepted  until  Friday, 
Oct.  19. 

According  to  Andrew  Wentz,  PBL  presi- 
dent, the  recruiting  will  be  done  on  a  one- 
to-one  basis.  He  said  the  club  is  open  to 
business,  computer  science  and  secretar- 
ial majors. 

Applications  for  membership  will  be  on 
a  table  just  outside  the  door  of  Room  333, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  which  is  PBL 
office,  Wentz  said.  He  said  membership 
dues  are  $8  and  "that  includes  member- 
ship in  the  local,  state  and  national 
chapters." 

Wentz  said  some  of  the  membership 
money  goes  into  an  investment  fund. 

Wentz  said  membership  in  PBL  is 
valuable  because  it  "helps  develop  your 
vocational  and  career  capabilities.  It  helps 
you  in  your  communications  with  other 
people,  personal  pride  and  civic  responsi- 
bilities The  more  active  you  are  in  the 
club  the  more  you'll  get  out  of  it," 

The  club's  first  activity  of  this  semester 
will  be  to  prepare  a  float  for  the  Mum- 
mer's parade  on  Tuesday.  Oct  23  m  South 
Williamsport, 


Kierstead  new  manager 

The  college  cafeteria  has  a  new  boss, 
Joseph  P.  Kierstead.  He  has  replaced  Jake 

Matthews,  the  cafeteria  manager  last 
year, 

Kierstead  was  recently  promoted  to 
head  of  the  Food  Division  of  the  Canteen 
Vending  Company  of  Williamsport,  He  had 
been  with  the  parent  corporation.  Canteen 
Corporation,  for  13  years  prior  to  his 
promotion, 

Kierstead  was  graduated  from  Albright 
College  with  a  Bachelor  of  Science  in 
Economics  in  1954.  He  has  worked  for  Can- 
teen Corporation  in  Harrisburg. 
Allentown.  Boston  and  most  recently 
Reading  as  the  Eastern  Regional  Food 
Director, 

IM  footbalK  soccer 
entries  due  Sept.  12 

Entries  are  still  open  for  intramural 
touch  football  and  soccer  Rosters  and  a 
set  of  rules  may  be  picked  up  at  the  intra- 
mural bulletin  board,  first  floor  of  Bardo 
Gym,  Entries  must  be  returned  to  the  IM 
board  by  noon,  Tuesday,  Sept.  12. 


Contract  negotiations  held 


■*l  from  Pitfif  II 
for  faculty  will  increase  from  $50  to  $60  per 
credit. 

Sabbatical  leaves,  once  a  matter  of 
trustees'  discretion,  is  set  at  a  maximum 
of  two  persons  per  year  in  the  contract, 
effective  in  the  1980-81  year. 

The  full  impact  of  the  increases  on  the 
college  budget  will  not  be  measured  until 
after  the  first  three  weeks  of  the  semester. 
This  is  due  to  late  registrants  and  dropouts 
during  the  initial  part  of  the  semester, 
according  to  Dr.  Feddersen. 

Dr.  Feddersen  feels  that  with  "all  things 
considered"  the  new  contract  is  a  good 

Dr.  Feddersen  also  stated  that  the  re- 
opener  on  faculty  salaries  is  an  advantage 
tb  the  teachers,  because  of  current  infla- 
tionary trends, 

"But  it  IS  also  of  some  advantage  to  the 
college  We  hope  that  the  legislature, 
which  did  not  act  on  a  bill  introduced. 


'hich  would  increase  the  state's  share  of 
community  college  costs  to  a  more  equit- 
able level,  may  pass  during  the  coming 
fiscal  year",  said  Dr.  Feddersen. 

The  bill  would  increase  the  state's  share 
of  tuition  from  $500  to  S700,  and  from  $150 
to  $250  for  students  enrolled  in  a  vocational 
program. 

"I  think  the  terms  agreed  to  are  equit- 
able and  will  provide  solutions  to  some 
long  range  problems  at  the  college,"  said 
Brunette. 

On  Thursday.  Sept  6.  the  matter  of  rati- 
fication will  come  before  the  trustees  at 
their  Sept,  meeting  The  meeting  will  be  h 
eld  in  the  Parkes  Automotive  Building,  at 
7:30p,m 

WACCEA  will  be  meeting  this  Tuesday 
and  Wednesday  to  ratify  the  new  contract, 
according  to  Hillyard, 

Hillyard  stated  that  the  contract  must  be 
in  the  membership's  hands  three  days 
before  the  vote  to  ratify  is  taken. 


Page  4  SPOTLIGHT 

Athletic  field  to  be 
for  part  of  Stage  1 

The  athletic  field  and  stadium  Iwhind 
Bardo  gym  is  slated  (or  demolition  as  part 
of  the  Stage  1  building  plan  The  stadium 
was  completed  in  1926  and  was  the  scene  of 
Williamsport  High  School  football  games 
for  46  years. 

Since  the  college  took  over  the  former 
high  school  properly  in  January  1972.  the 
field  has  been  used  for  Softball,  field 
hockey,  archery,  touch  football,  soccer 
and  other  outdoor  physical  education 
activities,  according  to  Thomas  E  Vargo, 

Field  hockey 
team  spots  open 

Under  the  direction  of  Marti  Bryant,  the 
women's  varsity  field  hockey  team  is 
being  organized. 

More  students  are  urged  by  the  coach  to 
sign  up  and  become  part  of  the  (earn.  So 
far.  there  are  11  members  and  one  student 
manager  who  is  not  ehgible  for  the  squad. 

The  first  practice  was  scheduled  last 
week  Practices  are  held  in  the  open  field 
behind  Unit  6  The  Season  opens  Tuesday, 
Sept  25,  with  Northampton  County  Com- 
munity College,  on  the  home  field 

A  scrimmage  with  Lycoming  College  is 
also  going  to  be  scheduled  as  will  weekly 
scrimmages. 

Any  girl  who  wished  to  play  may  sign  up 
at  any  practice  or  by  contacting  Marti 
Bryant  in  the  Physical  Plant  Office 
(behind  Unit  61  or  by  calling  Extension 
288 

Tot  Watch  open 

Tot  Watch,  a  child-care  facility  on 
campus,  is  located  on  the  first  floor  of 
Klump  Academic  Center 

The  facility  is  open  to  children  of  both 
full  and  part-time  students  Children  en- 
rolled must  be  between  two-and-one-half 
years  and  five  years  old 

Registration  fee  for  Tot  Watch  is  $5. 
Hourly  charges  are  50  cents  per  hour  for 
children  of  full-time  students,  and  75  cents 
per  hour  for  children  of  part  time  students 

Tot  Watch  is  open  from  8  am  to  4  p  m 
Monday  through  Friday.  Snacks  are 
served  twice  daily,  but  lunches  are  the  re- 
sponsibility of  the  parent 

Mrs  Mary  Bardo.  registered  nurse  who 
supervises  the  facility,  may  be  reached  at 
extension  329 


CINEMA  CLUB  PRESENTS,  . 

'^D  NOy  FOR  SCVMETHING 
CCVMPLETELY  DIFFERENT' 

""^  [PGJ 


fWng  Circus 


KlufTip  Auditorium 

Next  Monday 
7:30  P.M. 
Sept.  1 0 

$1.00 


Sepl     4,1979      . 

demolished 
building  plan 

physical  education  director, 

Vargo  noted  that  both  students  and 
(acuity  use  the  running  track  on  the  field 
for  jogging  He  also  said  that  although  the 
field  has  had  considerable  use,  the  college 
can  manage  with  the  use  of  the  old 
practice  field  behind  Unit  6 

The  gymnasium,  built  in  1937.  will  con- 
tinue in  use. 

Courses  offered 
prison  inmates 

The  college  trustees  approved  a  contract 
this  summer  with  Lewisburg  Federal 
Penitentiary  to  provide  courses  within  the 
prison 

Prison  officials  requested  that  a  new 
course,  hotel  and  motel  management,  be 
added  this  year 

Continuing  are  courses  in  building  tech- 
nology and  estimating,  dental  laboratory, 
and  real  estate  courses.  The  federal  gov- 
ernment pays  the  total  program  costs  of 
$100,924. 

Dental  Hygiene 
Clinic  opens  today 

Beginning  today,  the  Denial  Hygiene 
Clinic  on  the  fourth  floor  of  Klump 
Academic  Center  will  be  open  for  service 

Clinic  hours  are:  Monday,  Wednesday, 
and  Friday,  8  to  12  a.m.,  Tuesday  and 
Thursday,  8  to  1 1  am.  12  to  3  p.m 

The  fee  schedule  is : 
Adult  prophylaxis* $4.00 

(scaling  and  polishing) 

Edentulous  (dentures) 2.0O 

Child  prophylaxis  3.00 

Flouride  application 1.00 

X-rays  ■  full  mouth 8.00 

■  panelispe 6.00 

bitewings 2.00 

(cavity  detection  films) 

■  individual 1.00 

Study  models 1.00 

•WACO,  employees  and  students    3  00 

Advisory  Council  meets 

The  first  meeting  of  the  new  academic 
year  of  the  Advisory  Council  will  be  held  at 
3  pm  tomorrow,  in  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Mrs  Jo 
Ann  Fremiotti,  student  activities 
assistant 


ite  professor  of 
English,  would  like  to  communicate  with 
anyone  interested  in  sharing  rides  to  and 
from  Lock  Haven.  Mr.  Porter  leaves  Lock 
Haven  at  about  8  a.m.  —  arriving  at  the 
College  at  about  8:45  am  He  will  leave  the 
College  to  return  to  Lock  Haven  daily  at 
about4:30p  m   ladvt.) 


The  B&M  DINER 

1170  W.  4th  St. 

Under  New  Management; 
Jim  &  Vivian  Ensinger 

Open  14  Hours 

10%  DISCOUNT 

With  WACC  ID 

on  all 
SUBS,  PIZZAS, 
OR  DINNERS 


NEW  COLLEGE  POLICIES 


FoUowing  ore  the  policies  which 
have  been  accepted  by  the  Board  of 
Trustees  on  attendance,  soliciting. 
and  alcoholic  beverages  lor  the 
college  They  are  presented  with  no 
deletions  for  the  information  of  the 
student  body 

Attendance  policy 

1  Regular  and  prompt  attendance  at 
all  classes  and  at  scheduled  con- 
ferences with  instructors  is  expected 
or  all  students  All  work  missed  by 
reason  of  absence,  regardless  of  the 
cause,  must  be  made  up  lo  the  satis- 
faction of  the  instructor.  Students 
who  know  that  they  will  be  absent 
are  expected  to  get  assignments 
from  instructors  in  advance  so  that 
the  necessary  work  will  be  com- 
pleted before  the  student  leaves,  or 
immediately  upon  his/her  return 
This  applies  to  absences  for  college 
activity  trips  as  well  as  absences  for 
other  reasons.  In  all  cases  of  antici- 
pated absence,  students  should  con- 
fer with  their  instructors  in  advance 
whenever  possible, 
2,  AH  faculty  are  required  to  record  at- 
tendance daily 

3  When  a  student,  in  the  instructor's 
judgement,  is  not  adequately  meet- 
ing the  course  objectives  and  has 
missed  more  than  the  equivalent  of 
the  class  hours  held  in  one  week  of 
instruction,  the  instructor  MAY  rec- 
ommend the  student  be  withdrawn 
from  class  by  the  College.  (See  pro- 
cedures.) 

4  If  in  the  judgment  of  the  instructor. 
extenuating  circumstances  are  in- 
volved (e.g.,  a  death  in  the  family, 
hospitalization,  illness,  or  serious 
accident),  the  following  alternatives 
are  available  to  the  students. 

a.  to  arrange  with  the  instructor's 
approval  a  stated  plan  for  meet- 
ing course  objectives  and  respon- 
sibilities. 

b.  to  withdraw  and  receive  an  "I" 
grade  (Incomplete). 

c.  to  withdraw  and  receive  a  "W" 
(Withdrawn). 

5-  Based  upon  the  instructor's  recom- 
mendation, a  decision  to  withdraw  a 
student  from  a  course  MAY  be  made 
by  the  appropriate  division  director. 
Withdrawal  from  a  course  by  the 
College  for  excessive  absences  will 
only  be  done  after  the  first  three 
weeks  of  each  term  or  20  percent  of 
instruction  and  will  be  recorded  on 
the  student's  transcript  as  a  "WF" 
(Withdrawn  Failing). 


6  Appeal  Process:  Students  who  are 
withdrawn  from  a  course  by  the  Col- 
lege may  appeal  the  decision  within 
three  days  of  notification 
The  student  may  appeal  the  decision 
to  either  the  Dean  for  Degree  and 
Certificate  Programs  or  the  Ad  Hoc 
Academic  Policy  Group  consisting  of 
the  Dean  for  Degree  and  Certificate 
Programs.  President  of  the  Student 
Government  Association,  and  Chair- 
person of  the  Academic  Policy  Com- 
mittee. 

Alcoholic  beverage  policy 

The  College  does  not  permit  any  alco- 
holic beverages  on  campus,  except  when 
approved  for  instructional  purposes  in 
cases  in  which  there  is  no  violation  of  state 
laW.  Nor  does  the  College  permit  alcoholic 
beverages  at  any  College  sponsored/stu- 
dent organization  sponsored  student 
functions  held  on  or  off  campus.  The  Col- 
lege disciplinary  procedures  are  given  in 
the  Student  Handbook,  Organizations  will 
be  dealt  with  severely.  In  the  case  of 
student  organizations,  the  responsibility  to 
comply  with  this  policy  lies  with  the 
officers  and  advisor  of  the  student  organ- 
ization, Violators  are  subject  to  the  college 
disciplinary  procedures  given  in  this 
Student  Handbook.  Organizations 
violating  this  policy  will  be  subject  to  the 
loss  of  student  activities  funds  and  the  loss 
of  the  privilege  of  using  college  facilities  or 
other  appropriate  actions  as  determined 
by  the  Dean  for  Student  and  Career  De- 
velopment. 

On-campus  soliciting  policy 

The  College  discourages  on-campus  soli- 
citation by  non-college  organizations.  Any 
non-college  organization  desiring  to  solicit 
on  campus  must  secure  written  approval 
from  the  Dean  for  Student  and  Career 
Development.  Approval  will  be  granted 
based  on  value  to  the  college  community. 
If  approval  is  granted,  the  organization 
must  follow  procedures  and  adhere  to 
times  and  places  designated  by  the  College 
at  the  time  of  approval. 

Approved  student  organizations  must 
follow  procedures  outhned  by  the  Student 
Activities  Office. 

SLEEP  ROOMS  FOR  RENT 

Newly  decorated,  wall 
to  wall  carpeting, 
located  Id  residential 
area  near  downtown. 
Clean,  secure,  $20  and 
$25  a  week.  Female 
students  only.  323-7720 
from  10  am  to  5  pm. 


FREE 

Car  Pool  Advertising* 

Want  to  form  a  car  pool? 

The  SPOTLIGHT,  as  space  permits, 

will  accept  notices  (ads)  from 

students,  faculty,  and 

members  of  the  various  WACC  staffs 

and  administration. 

To  place  an  ad,  come  to.The  SPOTLIGHT 
office,  Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center, 
before  5  p.m.  today,  Tuesday,  Sept.  4. 

( •  A  paM  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  Energy  Consetvalion  Ellon) 


'.•.The  most 
important 

building  program 

in  the  history 
of  this  college...' 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE       ) 


Monday,  Sept.  10. 1979  Vol.  15,  No.  2  4  Pages 


—From  the  speech  of  WiHiam  H.  Schrum, 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
at  groundbreaking  ceremonies 


-♦•  '^A 


VVilliamsport  Mayor  Daniel  P.  Kirby.  one  of  the 
speakers,  pledged  the  city's  support  in  seeliing 
another  College  goal:  student  housing. 


^O^tg^^n  ^C*  "'*^'^^^K^r 

Onlookers  heard  speakers  note  the  start  of  con- 
struction of  three  new  buildings  when  they  at- 
tended groundbreaking  ceremonies  last  Wednes- 
day on  the  construction  site. 


Years  of  planning  were  culminated  last  Wednes- 
day with  the  turning  of  a  spade  of  earth.  Taking 
part  in  the  formal  groundbreaking  are,  from  left. 
Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen,  College  president; 
William  H.  Schrum,  chairman  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees,  and  Richard  H.  I.undy.  president  of 
Lundy  Construction  Company. 


Page  2  SPOTLIGHT  Sept,  10. 1979 

OM  CAMiPUS 


^^ 


VP*     KNON^J,  5o(<\eno\A/  1- 5>J5T  Do(nT  IHinK  a:'na 

GOING    TO      fet       f^ftLE        To       -r/VI\£    THAT    CUA5^ 


Editorial 


We  con  conserve 


Energy  conservotion  is  o  term  which  hos  been  with  us  for  quite  a 
white.  To  some,  it  means  long  gas  hnes  and  high  prices,  while  to 
others  it  meons  simply  turning  off  o  few  lights  in  unused  rooms. 

Whatever  it  means  to  each  individual,  we  should  all  decide  what  we 
con  do  to  overt  a  major  energy  crisis. 

President  Carter  has  set  guidelines  as  to  thermostot  settings  for 
summer  ond  winter.  These  ore  not  designed  to  inconvenience  us  or  to 
moke  us  uncomfortoble.  They  are  set  to  cut  bock  on  energy  use  until 
scientists  are  able  to  devise  on  alternate  source  of  energy. 

We  should  all  do  our  shore  to  ossist  in  conserving  energy.  When 
leaving  a  room,  take  the  couple  of  seconds  it  takes  to  turn  the  light 
switch  off.  Follow  the  guidelines  set  for  thermostats,  setting  the 
thermostot  no  lower  than  78  in  the  summer  and  no  higher  thon  66  in 
the  winter. 

What  con  we  do  on  campus  to  help*?  If  the  last  person  to  leave  o 
classroom  would  turn  off  lights,  this  will  cut  back  on  energy  use. 
Making  sure  windows  ore  closed  in  the  winter  months  will  ossist 
greatly  in  heat  retention.  Even  such  smoll  items  as  shutting  off  a 
typewriter  when  not  in  use  will  help. 

There  ore  many  ways  specific  to  on  individual's  working  area  to  help 
in  the  energy  crunch.  Look  around  your  area  and  see  what  you  can  do. 
We  all  need  to  do  our  lair  shore  to  ovoid  a  mojor  crisis  which  could 
have  disastrous  effects  on  our  natron  s  economy 

From  My  Desk 

From  My  Desk  is  wrilKn  by  staff  members  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  who  wish  lo 
comment  on  subjects  of  irdivjdual  interest  Opinions  expressed  may  or  may  not 
reflen  the  opinion  of  T\\p  SPOTLIGHT 

Novj,  where  ARE  those  parking  lofs? 

By  Brad  English 
Staff  Writer 

Applications  ore  now  being  occepled  for  the  campus  lond  rescue 
unit  here  at  WACC. 

Only  students  who  hove  training  and  abilities  m  fields  such  as  back- 
packing, climbing,  snow-shoeing  and  cross-country  skiing  need  apply 

I  he  unit  IS  being  formed  to  prepare  for  ony  emergencies  thai  might 
orise  while  students  ore  making  the  trek  from  the  parking  lots  on  Pork 
Street  to  the  compus. 

But  seriously,  folks,  lets  oil  be  glod  that  most  of  us  own  hikino 
boots.  It  isn't  such  a  rough  trip,  but  when  the  weather  turns  mean  well 
all  be  risking  life  and  limb  to  get  in  here.  Ah,  the  snowdrifts  the  ice 
loms  in  the  potholes,  the  bands  of  ravaging  dogs  that  attack  onythinq 
when  starvation  is  near. 

Gladly,  there  ore  alternatives.  We  can  leave  our  cors  at  home  and 
walk  -  meoning  everyone  who  lives  closer  than  New  Jersey  can 
probably  moke  it  in  the  time  it  takes  to  hike  from  the  porking  lo.  Or 
we  could  charter  airplanes  and  poracfiule  in. 


VIEWPOINT 


Book  review 


A  book  to  avoid 


By  John  Zelewicz 
Staff  Writer 

■  The  Last  Sherlock  Holmes  Story",  written  by  Michael  Dibdin,  is  a 
book  for  Sherlock  Holmes  buffs  to  ovoid  like  rabid  onimals  avoid 
water. 

It  degrodes  the  memory  of  Holmes  and  Watson  that  Sir  Arthur 
Conan  Doyle  spent  a  great  port  of  his  life  to  build. 

The  book  deals  with  the  notorious  crimes  committed  by  Jock  the 
Ripper. 

Holmes  and  Watson  are  frantically  sought  out  by  Scotland  Yard  to 
put  on  end  to  the  hideous  crimes  plaguing  London  by  catching  the 
perpetrotor  of  the  crimes  who  is  called  Jack  the  Rippe 


nth  a  style 


tar  to  thot  of 
I  trying  to  cash  in  on 


>  by  authors  other  than 


Though  the  book  starts  c 
Doyle,  it  quickly  degenerotes  into  a  cheap  n 
the  memory  of  the  works  created  by  Doyle, 

Other  stories  hove  been  written  about  Holn 
Doyle.  None  wos  os  atrocious  as  this, 

"The  Lost  Sherlock  Holmes  Story  "  turns  Wotson  into  a  drug-user 
trying  to  destroy  Holmes,  who  hos  been  transformed  by  Dibdin  into 
the  psychopathic  killer,  Jock  the  Ripper. 

The  finol  scene  of  this  macabre  book  ends  with  Watson  almost  being 
killed  by  Holmes  who  in  the  last  instant  realizes  that  he  is  in  reality 
Jack  the  Ripper  and  hurls  himself  to  death  off  the  Reichenbach  Falls. 

The  heinous  crimes  that  Jack  the  Ripper  perpetrated  upon  London 
con  be  compared  only  to  those  thot  Dibdin  does  to  the  memory  of 
Sherlock  Holmes  and  his  foithful  biographer,  Dr.  John  Watson, 


The  SPOTLIGHT 


:  year. 


FirstPloce  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  acotter 

except  for  official  college  vocations,  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students   Office 

Room  7.  Kturrtp  Academic  Center  (basement)   Telephone  (717j 

326-3761.  Extension  221. 

Member.  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member.  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

AAonoging  Editor Moltle  S   Tom/inson 

Compus  Editor  jo„  [  Daniel 

Associole  Compus  Editor John  f  Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor Jocquetine  J   Cordene 

Pliologropliy  Editor Dwighl  E  Schmuck 

Senior  SlofI  Reporter Brod  E   English 

Reporters  Robert  J  Allen.  Donno  I  Ginter.  Thereso  J  MocKenzie.  John  L  Rickerl. 
Brion  M  Rippey.  Trudy  M  Shively  Cindy  M  Snook.  Kimberly  A  Steele.  Lorry  C  Steele. 
Robert  E    Thomo 

StofI  Artist 

Contributing  Rep 
Staff  AssistonI 


Chris 


3N 


</cho 


FREE 

Car  Pool  Advertising* 

Want  to  form  a  car  pool? 

The  SPOTLIGHT,  as  space  permits, 

will  accept  notices  (ads)  from 

students,  faculty,  and 

members  of  the  various  WACC  staffs 

and  administration. 

To  place  an  ad,  come  to  The  SPOTLIGHT 
office,  Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center, 
before  5  p.m.  today 

( •  A  pan  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  Energy  Conservation  Ettort) 


Sept  10. 1979 


Financial  aid  funds  still  available 


SPOTLIGHT  Page  3 


Mrs  Juliann  Pawlak,  Financial  Aid 
assistant,  emphasized  there  are  still  funds 
available  for  students  seeking  grants  or 
loans. 

The  number  of  students  already 
receiving  aid  for  the  1979-80  academic  year 
is  1,673. 

As  of  Aug.  31,  there  were  granted 
through  the  Supplemental  Education  Op- 
portunity Grant  (SEOG)  the  amount  of 
$85,000. 


The  amount  granted  through  Work 
Study  (WS)  amounts to$127, 800. 

The  two  forms  of  aid  have  remaining 
funds  available  for  those  who  wish  to  apply 
for  aid  These  types  of  aid  will  remain 
available  until  the  money  is  used  up,  she 
said. 

The  amount  of  aid  received  from  the 
Basic  Education  Oppertunity  Grant 
(BEOG)  for  the  1979-80  academic  year 
amounts  to  $1,128,053. 


Late  registration  in  the  lobby  of  Klump  Academic  Center.  Lines,  waiting,  and 
puzzled  people  nearing  the  frustration  level  were  the  order  of  the  day. 


not  exactly  overcrowded  dui'iiig  the  May  and  Jiin 


mw(m" 


NSERVE 


The  number  of  students  receiving  this 
aid  is  1,109. 

The  amount  of  aid  received  from  the 
Pennsylvania  Higher  Education 
Assistance  Agency  (PHEAA)  amounts  to 
$357,460.  The  number  of  students  receiving 
PHEAA  aid  is  943. 

The  amount  of  loans  granted  amount  to 
$1,338,757  and  the  number  of  students  is 
732. 

New  hours  established 
for  Recreation  Center 

Scheduled  Recreation  Center  hours  have 
been  established  by  Mrs  Jo  Ann 
Fremiotti.  student  activities  assistant. 

The  scheduled  hours  are : 
Monday:  l:30to  10:00p.m 

Tuesday:  l:30tol0:00p.m 

Wednesday:  l:30to  10:00p.m 

Thursday:  4:00to  10:00p.m 

Friday:  l;30to4:OOp.m 

The  center  is  closed  over  weekends 
because  there  is  no  student  interest, 
cording  to  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Orientation  held 

Orientation  this  year  was  held  on  Thurs- 
day, Aug.  23.  starting  at  9  a.m.,  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

Developmental  Studies  and  Dental 
Hygiene  students  were  requested  to  attend 
the  orientation  and  meet  with  their  ad- 
visors in  the  afternoon. 

A  free  picnic  lunch  was  available  to  stu- 
dents. 

The  Theater  Group  Company  under  the 
direction  of  Mrs.  Sylvia  Lea  Frymire,  per- 
formed a  20-minute  musical  for  students 
called  "So  you  think  you're  confused"? " 

The  cast  consisted  of  12  people. 

Bookstore  to  be  open  extra  hours 
The  bookstore  will  be  open  extra  hours 

for  the  next  two  or  three  weeks  depending 

on  customer  load.  The  extra  hours  will  be 

from  6  to  9  p.m. 
Normal  hours  are  8  am,   to  4  p.m. 

Monday  through  Friday. 

Student  housing  survey 

student  housing  problems  were  focused 
upon  in  a  survey  conducted  at  the  college 
recently  The  results  indicated  that  many 
non-commuting  students  considered  their 
housing  less  than  adequate 

With  the  high  cost  of  gasoline,  more 
commuting  students  are  expected  to 
search  for  housing  nearer  to  the  college, 
and  so  create  a  larger  demand  for  housing 
Dr.  William  H  Homisak.  assistant  to  the 
president,  noted  the  problem,  pointmg  out 
that  the  Community  College  Act  of  1972 
will  not  provide  money  for  college  dorms 
here 

According  to  Dr.  Homisak.  1,400  non- 
commuting  students  were  to  be  searching 
for  housing 


LATE  NEWS LATE  NEWS LATE  NEWS LATE  NEWS 

CAR  POOL ANYONE  INTERESTED  IN  SHARING  A  RIDE  TO  PENN  STATE 

(DOWN  FRIDAY,  BACK  SATURDAY  NOON)  CONTACT  MR.  CHRIS  RADKE, 
ASSOCIATE  PROFESSOR  OF  CARPENTRY,  AT  EXTENSION  311  OR  312... 

INSURANCE INFORMATION  ABOUT  THE  STUDENT  INSURANCE  PROGRAM 

IS  AVAILABLE  FROM  THE  COLLEGE  NURSE  WHOSE  OFFICE  IS  IN  THE 
LAIR,  ON  SUSaUEHANNA  STREET... 

FAMILY  PICNIC THE  COLLEGE  FAMILY  PICNIC  WILL  BE  HELD 

THIS  FRIDAY. , .RESERVATIONS  ARE  BEING  TAKEN  BY  MARTI  BRYANT, 

ANN  CRISSMAN,  AND  MABEL  NEVE! PICNIC  IS  AT  4  P.M.  AT 

WATERDALE. . . 

BOWLING //RELIABLE  PERSON  IS  NEEDED  TO  KEEP  /STATE 

/STATS/  FOR  UPCOMING  BOWLING  SEASON,//  ACCORDING  TO 
THOMAS  GRAY,  COACH... HE  ASKED  THAT  INTERESTED  PERSOJ^S 
CONTACT  HIM  IN  BARDO  GYM... 

BOWLING INTRAMURAL  BOWLING  ENTRIES  ARE  OPEN. .. ROSTER 

AND  RULES  ARE  AVAILABLE  AT  IM  BULLETIN  BOARD  IN  BARDO  GYM-..  ' 


One  of  the  many  new  faces  s 
campus    this    year    is     Bonita     L. 
Molino.  cafeteria  cashier. 

News  Briefs 

Building  project  funds 

An  $800,000  grant  to  the  college  was 
approved  by  the  Appalachian  Regional 
Commission.  The  grant  represented  the 
final  step  in  funding  of  the  $8.6  million 
building  project. 

Of  the  total  project  cost.  $4,434,122  will 
be  borne  by  the  state  A  federal  grant  of 
$800,000  in  vocational  education  funds  was 
previously  approved. 

The  remainder  of  the  funding  for  the 
project  will  come  from  the  college's  cash 
balances  ($1.622. 269t,  sponsoring  school 
districts  i$425,508  over  a  three-year 
period),  tuition  fees  from  students  from 
non-sponsoring  districts  ($447,868  over  a 
three-year  period),  and  $104,355  in  capital 
charges  assessed  to  the  community  edu- 
cation fund. 

New  instructors 
join  faculty 

Eleven   instructors  joined  the  faculty 
during  August.  They  are: 
Anson  A  WiihLs,  poslsecondary  welding, 
Wayne  A.  Smith,  secondary  auto  body. 
John  J,  Macko,  secondary  auto  body. 
Clifford  C.Horton.  broadcasting. 
David  C.  Johnson,  electronics. 
Bryson  P.  Burkholder.  forestry. 
James  A.  Garland,  aviation. 
John  W  Kroboth,  automotive, 
David  C,  Dietrick,  welding. 
James  B,  Shaw,  physics. 
Patncia  A,  Conn,  business  administra- 
tion 

Lumber  harvest 
approved 

Lumber  will  l>e  harvested  by  college  stu- 
dents for  the  Muncy  Correctional  Institu- 
tion. A  contract  with  the  institution  ap- 
proved by  trustees  during  the  summer  pro- 
vides for  the  cutting  of  trees  on  prison 
property  by  forestry  students. 

The  contract  provides  that  the  harvest 
will  be  made  consistent  with  good  forestry 
management  techniques.  It  gives  forestry 
students  a  real-life  instructional  program. 

Lumber  harvested  will  be  shared  by  the 
college  and  the  Muncy  prison. 

Costs  Force 
Museum  Fee 

Andrew  K.  Grugan.  director  of  the 
Lycoming  County  Historical  Society 
and  Museum,  858  W.  Fourth  St.,  has 
announced  that  courtesy  admission 
to  the  museum  for  college  students 
must  be  discontinued  due  to  rising 
operational  costs. 

The  charge  for  admission  is  50 
cents  for  adults.  Museum  hours  are 
from  10  a.m.  to  4  p.m  Tuesday 
through  Friday  and  2  p.m.  to  5  p.m. 
on  Sunday. 

The  institution  is  closed  on 
holidays  and  holiday  weekends. 


Page  4 


Sepi  10. 1979 


Groundbreaking  ceremony  held 

to  herald  construction 

of  three  buildings 


By  Mollie  Tomlinson 
Starr  Writer 

A  gym  class  was  meeting  in  the  field  be- 
hind the  speakers'  platform  Muffled 
sounds  of  practice  mingled  with  sounds  of 
traffic  passmg  on  West  Third  Street  A 
killdeer  called  from  the  camouflage  of 
morningmist  rising  out  of  the  valley     . 

The  groundbreaking  ceremony  for  Stage 
I  of  Phase  I  of  the  college  building  pro- 
gram was  underway.  The  moment 
culminated  years  of  concerted  effort  and 
planning. 

This  otherwise  ordinary  gray  Tuesday 
took  on  a  special  significance  to  those 
gathered  before  the  platform.  They  stood, 
scattered  in  two  semi-circles  in  front  of  the 
platform 

Speakers  extended  best  wishes  for  the 
undertaking  and  repledged  support  for  the 
building  program.  It  was  the  beginning  of 
a  "new  face"  for  the  college,  said  Dr, 
William  H.  Feddersen.  college  president, 
during  the  ceremony, 

Mrs.  Sara  Sharadin.  member  of  the  col- 
lege executive  council,  said  the  event 
"marked  a  milestone  in  WACC  history." 

New  financial  aid 
director  begins  Sept.  17 

Ms.  Jenny  Bills,  a  graduate  of  Rochester 
Institute  of  Technology,  will  assume  the 
position  of  director  of  financial  aid  next 
Monday,  Sept   17, 

Ms.  Bifis  has  been  assistant  and  acting 
director  of  financial  aid  at  Rochester  Insti- 
tute of  Technology 

Ms.  Bills  succeeds  Michael  Tyson  who 
resigned  to  lake  a  position  in  the  math  de- 
partment. Acting  director  has  been  Dr, 
David  M,Heiney. 


CINEMA  CLUB  PRESENTS.  . 

'/1ND  NO/V  FOR  SOVIETHING 

COMPLETELY  DIFFERENT' 


Kiump  Auditorium 

Tonight! 

7:30  P.M. 

$1.00 

Next  Week: 
The  Gauntlet 


She  added  that  the  completed  project 
would  make  "great  improvements"  in  the 
college  campus, 

Hillyard  speaks 

Better,  safer,  more  modern  campus 
facilities  will  create  a  very  subtle  kind  of 
benefit  in  addition  to  the  obvious  ones, 
observed  Carl  M.  Hillyard,  president  of  the 
Williamsporl  Area  Community  College 
Education  Association,  quoted  Winston 
Churchill:  "We  shape  our  buildings  and 
afterward  our  buildings  shape  us  " 

"Every  area  of  the  college  must  work 
together  cooperatively  lo  make  this  a  suc- 
cess," Hillyard  said 

Cooperation  was  a  common  theme 
throughout  many  of  the  speeches  de- 
livered Dr.  Feddersen  said  he  was  con- 
fident that  the  cooperative  spirit  of  the 
college,  of  the  sponsoring  districts  and  of 
the  city  "will  continue  to  produce  an  en- 
vironment conducive  to  learning." 

In  the  same  vein.  Mayor  Daniel  P.  KIrby 
reaffirmed  his  support  of  the  college  goal 
of  attaining  funding  for  student  housing. 
'An  asset' 

William  H.  Schrum,  chairman  of  the 
board  of  trustees,  said  he  felt  the  building 


program  would  make  the  college  "an  asset 
to  the  community  college  program  of 
Pennsylvania  " 

The  speakers  contended  with  trucks  and 

occasional  high-spirited  shouts  from  other 

parts  of  the  campus  as  the  sun  finally 

broke  through  the  rising  mist, 

'Gold"  shovel  used 

II  was  almost  hot  when  Schrum,  Dr. 
Feddersen  and  general  contractor  for  the 
project,  Richard  H  Lundy  Jr, ,  used  a  gold- 
painted  shovel  to  turn  a  symbolic  shovelful 
of  earth  The  learning  resources  center, 
the  building  trades  center,  and  the  welding 
facility  were  "moved"  from  paper  and 
closer  to  reality. 

Joseph  Bruno,  community  college  coor- 
dinator for  the  department  of  education, 
summed  It  up  in  his  talk: 

"A  new  day  is  dawning  for  WACC,"  he 
said. 

Schrum  delivered  the  welcome  and  pre- 
sided over  the  ceremony.  Speakers  were 
Mrs  Sharadin,  Dr.  Feddersen,  Hillyard, 
Bruno,  Charles  J.  Lieberth,  executive  di- 
rector of  SEDA-COG,  and  Mayor  Kirby. 

The  Rev.  John  Tamahs,  college  chap- 
lain, gave  the  invocation  and  benediction. 


m^ifl'^^-ff- 


Dance  to  follow  pancake  dinner 


Mrs.  Vivan  P,  Moon,  advisor  of  the  Food 
and  Hospitality  Organization,  reports  that 
the  group,  along  with  the  Student  Govern- 
ment Association,  will  sponsor  a  pancake 
supper  and  square  dance  this  Wednesday 
evening. 

The  pancake  supper  —  consisting  of  pan- 
cakes, sausage,  applesauce,  and  beverage 
—  will  be  from  6  to  8  p.m.  in  Klump  Aca- 

Radio  station 
burglarized 

The  WACC  Radio  station  was  discovered 
broken  into  at  8:45  am,  last  Sunday,  Sept, 
2 

A  security  officer  patroling  the  campus 
discovered  a  window  of  the  station  had 
been  broken  and  all  the  glass  had  been 
cleaned  out  of  the  window.  An  excess  of 
$I,HXl  worth  of  records,  tapes,  and  head- 
phones were  removed  from  the  station. 

Anyone  having  any  information  about 
(he  robbery  should  gel  in  touch  with  the 
security  office  or  the  Williamsport  police, 
according  to  campus  security  officers. 

Sweeney  published 

A  poem  by  Dr.  Richard  M,  Sweeney, 
director  of  the  Communications,  Humani- 
ties and  Social  Sciences  Division,  has  been 
included  In  the  1979-80  edition  of  "The 
Pushcart  Prize.  IV:  Best  of  the  Small 
Presses." 

"The  Way  Corn  Works"  is  a  25-line  cele- 
bration of  the  growth  of  a  common  corn- 
stalk The  poem  was  chosen  from  among 
4.000  nommations  to  be  included  in  the  :100 
works  published  in  "Pushcart." 

Dr,  Feddersen  is  elected 

Dr  William  H.  Feddersen,  college  presi- 
dent, was  elected  vice  president  of  the 
Pennsylvania  Association  of  Colleges  and 
Universities  for  the  1979-80  year. 

Dr  Feddersen  has  served  on  the  execu- 
tive committee  of  the  organization  since 
1977 


demic  Center.  There  will  be  a  fee  for  this 
event. 

A  square  dance  will  follow  the  supper  at 
8  p,m.,  also  in  Klump  Academic  Center 
The  dance  will  be  free  to  all  Williamsport 
Area  Community  College  students  display- 
ing proper  identification  at  the  door. 

Also  on  Wednesday,  the  food  and  hospi- 
tality department  will  have  a  dietary  tech- 
nicians meeting  to  review  how  managers 
handle  the  stress  on  their  daily  jobs. 

Mrs.  Moon  also  noted  that  new  officers 
would  be  elected  in  the  near  future. 

Trustees  try  for  housing 

Because  of  a  new  regulation  that  sets 
aside  money  for  smaller  colleges  (5,000 
students  or  less)  for  housing,  the  board  of 
trustees  at  the  college  has  decided  to  try 
again  for  federal  student-housing  funds. 

An  application  submitted  last  year  for 
$5,422,880  was  rejected  by  the  Unites 
States  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban 
Development 

It  is  believed  that  the  new  regulation  will 
improve  the  college's  chances  since  it  will 
not  have  to  compete  with  major 
institutions  as  it  did  last  year 


Horton  named 

broadcasting 

instructor 

Clifford  C.  Horton,  has  joined  the  faculty 
at  the  college  as  broadcasting  instructor. 

Horton,  who  for  three  and  one-half  years 
was  known  as  Cliff  Edwards  to  WMPT 
radio  listeners  resigned  his  position  there 
to  devote  himself  full-time  to  his  new 
duties. 

Horton  has  a  bachelor  of  arts  in 
psychology  from  Mansfield  State  College 
and  has  six  years  experience  in  radio  and 
television.  He  also  has  his  first  class  radio 
telephone  operator's  license, 

Smeak  warns  students 
on  security  measures 

Lawrence  P.  Smeak.  chief  security  of- 
ficer, is  reminding  all  returning  students 
and  new  students  starting  out  of  the  follow- 
ing issues: 

The  Williamsport  City  Police  are  very 
efficient  in  issuing  parking  tickets  around 
the  college.  If  for  some  reason  you  receive 
one  of  these  tickets,  don't  ignore  it.  Take  a 
positive  action,  either  by  appeal  or  by  pay- 
ment of  the  ticket.  A  $1  or  a  $2  ticket  could 
result  in  a  $12  to  $25  fine  If  ignored,  said 
Smeak. 

Student  apartments  are  likely  targets 
for  burglery.  Don't  leave  your  doors  un- 
locked when  you  are  away  and  keep  an  eye 
out  for  any  strangers  that  might  be  wan- 
dering around  the  building.  Failure  to  do 
so  could  result  in  your  being  robbed,  ac- 
cording to  Smeak. 

Smeak  also  suggested  that  students 
shouldn't  leave  their  books  anywhere 
where  someone  could  get  their  hands  on 
them  around  the  school.  They  might  need 
the  same  books  you  do  and  they  might  not 
feel  like  paying  for  them  when  there's  a 
freebie  sitting  there  In  front  of  them,  he 
said. 

Only  two  managers.  John  McGraw  of  the 
New  York  giants  and  Casey  Stengel  of  the 
New  York  Yankees,  have  won  10  pennant 


Field  hockey    team  spots  open 


fast  action 


GIRLS  STILL 
NEEDED  FOR 
FIELD  HOCKEY 
TEAM. . . 
SIGN  UP 
AT  ANY  PRACTICE: 

OR  CONTACT 

MARTI  BRYANT 

IN  PHYSICAL 

PLANT  OFFICE 

(EXT.  288)         ^ 


Yesteryear's 
cheers,  glory 
still  echo 

as  stadium 
is  torn  down 
for  new  units 

By  Larry  Steele 
Staff  Writer 

With  the  stadium  to  tlie  side  uf 
Bardo  Gym  being  torn  down,  most 
attention  has  been  focused  on  the 
new  buildings  which  will  be  con- 
structed on  the  site.  .  . 

But  think.  .  .about  all  the  teams 
.  .  .all  the  outstanding  athletes.  .  . 
and  all  the  exciting  events  which 
made  the  stadium  and  field  im- 
portant in  both  the  history  of  the 
Williamsport  High  School  and  the 
com  munity  of  Willia  msport. 

1  lo  Page  .if 


'...nothing  erases 


the 


memories... 


Next  Week: 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


ei^BULlJBCDU 


J  V 


(^       Monday,  Sept.  17,1979       Vol.  15,  No.  3       8  Pages        ^ 


Tun  Night' 
tomorrow 
for  students 

Fun  Night  will  be  held  tomorrow  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  Cafeteria  from  6 
to  9  p.m.  for  students. 

There  will  be  table  games  offered  and 
students  may  bring  their  own.  according  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti,  student  activities 
assistant. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  also  said  that  tomorrow 
night  there  will  be  an  open  jam  session. 
Anyone  interested  in  being  in  the  jam 
session  should  contact  her.  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

If  Fun  Night  is  a  success,  she  said,  there 
will  be  a  Fun  Night  every  Tuesday  and 
Thursday  night. 

There  will  be  snacks  and  drinks  avail- 
able for  a  fee. 
Admission  is  free. 


Student  Government  plans 
Senatorial  elections 

The  Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  will  hold  a  meeting 
tomorrow  at  4  p  m  m  Room  132  of  the  Klump  Academic  Center, 
according  to  Mrs  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti,  SGA  advisor. 

The  present  officers  of  SGA  are  Robert  E  Thomas,  a  journalism 
student  from  Mifflinburg.  president;  Kimberly  A  Dincher,  a  floriculture 
student  from  Montoursville.  vice  president,  and  David  E  Richer,  a 
business  management  student  from  Allenwood,  treasurer 

One  senator  per  50  students  were  to  have  been  chosen  from  within  each 
individual  curriculum.  An  alternate  for  each  senator  is  to  attend 
meetings  when  the  senator  cannot,  but  the  alternate  will  not  have  the 

Iflease  lura  lo  Pof^e  61 

Building  Technologies   plans  Thursday  field  trip 


The  Northcentral  Penn  Student  Chapter 
of  the  Construction  Specifications  Institute 
is  planning  a  field  trip  to  the  Beavertown 
Block  and  Castone  Plant  this  Thursday, 
according  to  advisor  Lloyd  C.  Cotner. 

Cotner  noted  that  the  local  chapter  was 
one  of  less  than  ten  student  organizations 
in  the  country,  which  consists  of  archi- 
tects, engineers,  bankers,  and  everyone 


interested  in  improving  the  building  in- 
dustry. 

The  purpose  of  the  field  trip  to  the 
Beavertown  plant,  located  ten  miles  north 
of  Selingsgrove,  is  for  students  to  watch 
the  latest  machinery  in  manufacturing 
concrete  blocks  in  operation.  They  will 
also  observe  concrete  paneling  being  pre- 
cast for  major  building  constructions  dur- 
ing their  tour. 


Two  events 
are  planned 
by  fraternity 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  is  planning  two 

events  for  October. 

President  Andy  W  Wentz  said  that  PBL 
is  sponsoring  a  haunted  house  from  Oct.  19 
to  31  at  the  Lycoming  Valley  Mall 

Unrented  stores  in  the  mall  are  open  for 
non-profit  organizations  to  decorate  ap- 
propriately to  raise  money  for  the  March 
of  Dimes  Phi  Beta  Lambda  member 
Daniel    B.    HoUis    is    in   charge 

Vice  president  Lori  M,  Beaver  Is  in 
charge  of  a  second  project  —  a  float  for  the 
Mummers"  Parade  on  Oct  23  The  theme 
is  "A  Visit  to  Disneyland.'" 

WACCEA  meets  tomorrow 

A  contract  ratification  meeting  for 
members  of  the  Williamsport  Area  Com- 
munity College  Education  Association  will 
be  held  at  4  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  Auditorium. 


In  this  issue! 
Wet  T-shirt  centerfold 


ViSifiSfff 


SSWSiSS:iS¥S5.-SftW:¥ftS 


Book  review 


VIEWPOINT 

Life  by  Liebowitz 


By  Dwighl  Schmuck 

Staff  Writer 

Quite  possibly  there  is  o  new  —  or  rather,  o  more  citified  —  version 

of  Ermo  Bombeck  on  the  way  into  the  minds  ond  hearts  of  readers 

coast  to  coast.  The  lady's  name  is  Fran  Liebowitz.  Her  newest  publico- 

tion  is  "Metropoliton  Life". 

"Metropolitan  Life  "  is  an  extremely  omusing  collection  of  short- 
short  stories  ond  anecdotes  explaining  o  single  women's  life  and  times 
in  that  most  urbon  of  areas. 

Deeper  and  deeper 
sometimes  thought  provoking,  usuolly  biased, 
written  with   subtleties   so  clever   thot   eoch 
r   and   deeper   understonding  of   the  author's 


It  is  often  hilarious 
and  at  all  times  we 
reading  brings  deep 
feelings  and  commeni 

Scattered  througho 
to  a  "stote  of  mind  k 
black  cost  Shakespei 


I  the  book  ore  refi 
own  as  Los  Angel 
■on  ploy 


(usually  derogatory), 


As  You   Likes  If.   and  othe 


diatribes  against  whot  is  normally  thought  of  as  "the  sophisticoted 

lifestyle". 

One  especially  amusing  chapter  is  what  might  be  called  o  vendetta 
against  plonts.  Liebowitz  uses  the  commonly  known  definition  of  a 
plant:  ".  ,  .any  living  thing  that  cannot  move  by  itself  ond  generolly 
makes  its  own  food"  ond  uses  this  definition  to  moke  fodder  out  of 
plants,  plant  shops  and  plant  lovers. 

Rotes  four  stars 

She  finishes  this  chapter  saying,  "Generally  makes  its  own 
food.  .  .big  deal.  When  you  run  into  one  thot  generally  makes  its  own 
money,  give  me  a  coll." 

Liebowitz  also  hos  choice  words  about  clock  radios,  citizen  band. 
the  Mors  probes,  and  most  of  the  other  accepted  items  thot  fill  most 
folks  with  owesome  wonder. 

This  book  rotes  four  stars  as  one  of  the  most  funny,  irreverent, 
eosily  reodoble  books  to  come  out  in  a  long  time. 

Poperbock  price  is  about  $2.50  and  the  book  con  be  found  in  most 
populor  book  rocks.  It  is  well  worth  the  money. 


What  do  you,  as  an  individ- 
ual, think  you  can  do  to  im- 
prove your  college? 


Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  of  Montours- 
ville.  floriculture:  'Need  more 
student  involvement  in  student 
government  and  the  activities  it  spon- 
sors. " 


•Whadd'yo  soy 


Asked  at  the  Earth  Sc 


Neil  R.  Mocgil 
service  and  opera 
ment:  "I  don't  kno 


of    Williamsport, 
on  of  heavy  equip- 


CorlB.  Tunis,  of  Bristol,  s 
operation  of  heavy  equipn 
much  as  an  individual." 


Editorial 


4 


rh(s  week's  question  wos  osked  by 
Christina  N  Weibley  Photographs 
were  taken  by  MoHie  Tomlinson.  Both 
are  SPOTLIGHT  staff  persons 


Cheryl  D.  Poyton,  of  Harrisburg, 
service  and  operotion  of  heavy  equip- 
ment: "By  being  more  open  to  one  an- 
other. ' 


Donald  P.  Tote,  of  lewistown, 
forestry:  "Get  a  club  started  to  fund 
sporting  events.  I  would  like  to  be  on 
Q  football  team,  playing  intercolleg- 
iate gomes.  ' 


Kathryn  E.  Hemling,  of  Morris  Run. 
horticulture:  "Nothing.  .  .we  come  to 
classes  and  then  go  home.  We  only  do 
what  we  ore  told." 


Parking  lots 
hove  new  locotions 

Two  major  porking  lots  hove  been  closed  due  to  the  new  building 
plan.  In  their  place  two  new  parking  lots  hove  been  constructed  to  try 
and  alleviate  the  present  parking  problem.  These  two  new  lots  ore  not 
enough  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  the  students  here. 

An  increasing  number  of  parking  tickets  ore  being  issued  to 
students  here  at  the  college  for  parking  violotions  usually  resulting 
from  the  student  not  being  able  to  find  a  suitable  ploce  to  pork  his  or 
her  cor. 

A  number  of  students  commute  to  the  college  and  therefore  need  o 
place  to  pork  their  cars  when  they  arrive  for  classes.  A  lot  of  the  time 
a  porking  space  can't  be  found  so  the  student  has  to  pork  anywhere  he 
con  find  a  spot. 

A  good  deal  of  bad  feelings  ore  orising  from  the  depths  of  this 
problem  from  the  student  body  here.  They  need  a  space  to  pork  ond 
they  ore  being  issued  tickets  for  violations  that  hall  the  time  couldn't 
be  helped  in  the  first  place. 

How  long  will  this  shortage  of  parking  spoces  continue?  II  we  con 
find  room  for  o  $8,000,000  building  project  we  con  surely  find  the 
space  somewhere  lor  onother  parking  lot.  The  students  need  it.  Now! 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Ploce  Aword  Winner 

The  Columbio  Scholostic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  academic  year, 

except  for  officiot  college  vacations,  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students.  Office: 

Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement).  Telephone  (71  7j 

326-3761.  Extension  221 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiote  Press  Assn. 

Monoging  Editor    Mollie  S    Tomlinson 

Compus  Editor     jon  L    Donlel 

AsBoc.ole  Sompus  Editor John  F   Zelswicz 

Sports  Editor Jocquetlne  J  Cordene 

Photogrophy  Editor Dwighl  E  Schmuck 

Senior  SloH  Reporter Srod  £  English 

Reporters  Robert  J  Allen.  Donrto  L  Ginfer.  Theresa  J.  MocKenzle,  John  t,  Rlchert, 
BnonM  ftlppey.  Trudy  M  Shive/y,  Cindy  M  Snook,  Kin)ber/y  A  Steele,  Lorry  G  Steele, 
Robert  £   Thomos.  Chrlslino  N  Welbtey 

Sloll  Artist Michael  lek/les 

Contributing  Reporter Coll  M   Thompson 

Sloll  Assisloni rimolhy  A   Tolh 

Producllon  Teom  This  Issue:  Jon  Daniel,  supervisor;  Sob  Allen.  Trudy  St\ively,  Cindy 
Snook,  and  torry  Steele 


Sepi   17,  1979 


Yesteryear's  cheers... 


Page  3 


tConlinueil  from  Page  It 

(EiUtor's  !\ote:  The  WiUiamspoii  Arvu 
Community  College  oicupies  lanth  and 
huihiinfis  nfiivh  once  uvrp  uxetl  bv  the 
Williamsporl  High  School  ami  by  the 
VliUiamsporl  Technical  Institute,  ffhile  the 
athletic  field  did  not  play  a  major  role  in 
the  College's  sports  program,  it  was  a  well 
known  center  of  exciting  football  in  earlier 
dtnsJ 

Williamsport  High  School  began  using 
the  stadium  as  its  home  field  around  the 
time  of  World  War  I.  in  the  late  teens,  and 
continued  using  the  field  until  its  new 
stadium  was  built  at  the  new,  hilltop  loca- 
tion, inl972. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  10-year  period  of 
Williamsport  High  School  iWHSi  football 
came  in  the  1950s.  Coach  of  those  great 
teams  was  Tom  Vargo,  currently  the  ath- 
letic director  at  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College,  His  teams  were 
almost  perennial  winners  of  the  Central 
Penn  Conference. 

There  have  been  many  outstanding  play- 
ers to  come  out  of  Williamsport  High 
School,  but  possibly  the  best  known  is 
Larry  Kelley. 

Kelley  played  his  football  in  the  old 
stadium  and  then  went  on  to  Yale  where  he 
became  an  Ail-American  end.  He  added  to 
his  fame  by  winning  the  Heisman  Trophy 
in  1936.  He  was  one  of  only  two  lineman 
ever  to  win  the  prestigious  award. 
Many  others  successful 

Many  other  athletes  played  their  high 
school  ball  on  the  West  Third  Street  field 
and  went  on  to  successful  college  and  pro 
careers. 

Ray  Engle.  a  center  in  the  1920s,  was  the 
captain  of  the  football  team  during  his 
career  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania . 

Bill  Grimberg,  an  end.  went  on  to 
captain  the  Villanova  squad.  William 
Switzer.  a  running  back,  went  on  to  a 
successful  career  at  Cornell. 

In  the  mid-1930's.  Harold  (Curly) 
Steppins,  a  halfback,  went  on  to  gain  fame 
at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh.  He  was 
also  a  member  of  Pitt's  dream  backfield 
which  played  in  the  Rose  Bowl, 

In  the  "305.  too,  there  came  a  fullback  by 
the  name  of  Andy  Stopper  who  went  on  to 
play  college  ball  at  Villanova. 
On  to  pro  ball 

Sal  Rosato,  a  fullback,  played  at  Villa- 
nova and  then  went  on  to  a  career  as  a 
back  for  the  Washington  Redskins. 

Jack  Losch,  a  halfback,  also  went  on  to 
pro  ball,  playing  with  the  Green  Bay 
packers  after  going  to  college  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Miami. 


One  of  the  last  teams  to  use  the  field  pro- 
duced Scott  Dannelley,  who  went  on  to  be- 
come a  tackle  on  three  Ohio  SUte  football 
teams  which  played  in  the  Rose  Bowl. 
Pro  baseball,  too 

The  stadium  was  also  used  for  profes- 
sional baseball  in  the  1920s. 

The  Williamsport  Grays  of  the  New 
York-Pennsylvania  League  played  in  the 
stadium  before  moving  to  Bowman  Field 
in  1926.  The  Grays  won  the  league's 
pennant  in  1923  and  1924.  tymg  York  for  the 
title  in  1925  before  moving  to  Bowman 
Field. 

In  the  1920"5.  a  team  of  assorted  major 
leaguers  came  to  play  a  team  from 
Williamsport  on  the  field.  In  centerfield. 
there  was  a  chair  factory  which  was  about 
three  stories  high.  On  top  of  the  factory 
was  an  oversized  chair  for  advertising 
purposes. 

Well,  the  infamous  Babe  Ruth  was  play- 
ing with  the  major  leaguers  and  hit  a  base- 
ball to  centerfield,  over  everything,  includ- 
ing the  factory  and  the  big  chair.  Now 
that's  a  big  hit. 

An  era  has  passed 

Don  Wascher,  a  tackle-end  who 
graduated  in  1960,  observed  that  the  school 
must  improve.  He  said  he  had  a  lot  of 
memories  from  the  field,  but  he  was  not 
upset  by  the  destruction  of  it.  Though  not 
necessarily  'for'  destruction,  but  he  said 
he  realizes  the  importance  of  progress. 

Dave  Wascher,  a  brother  of  Don,  was  a 
tackle-end  who  graduated  in  1965,  He  said 
the  tearing  down  of  the  stadium  made  him 
realize  that  an  era  had  passed  and  that  he 
was  growing  older. 

He  was  saddened  by  the  loss  of  the  field 
But,  he  commented:  if  it  served  no  use, 
why  keep  if  The  land  is  good  real  estate. 
Nothing  erases  memurie>> 

Dave  Raemore,  a  halfback  and  kick  re- 
turner as  a  1969  graduate,  said  he  had  a  lot 
of  memories  which  nothing  could  take 
away. 

He  said  he  remembers  all  the  outstand- 
ing athletes  he  played  both  with  and 
against.  With  today's  world  of  supply  and 
demand,  he  said,  there  was  no  reason  to 
keep  the  field. 

He  also  recalled  that  games  were  played 
on  Saturday  afternoon  as  there  were  no 
lights  on  the  field- 

rrite  SPOTLIGHT  thanks  Hay  Keyes, 
spitrts  editor  of  The  Williamsport  Sun- 
(lozette.  and  Bob  Gimble.  athletic  director 
of  The  miliamsport  Area  High  School,  who 
provided  information  for  this  report.  The 
SPOTLIGHT  also  thanks  those  men  who 
shored  their  thoughts  and  i 


Vargo  remembers 
stadium's  past 


ByJackRickerl 
Staff  Writer 

The  razing  of  the  stadium  revives  many 
memories,  both  good  and  bad.  for  Thomas 
E.  Vargo.  director  of  athletics. 

At  one  time,  he  was  head  football  coach 
and  later,  athletic  director  at  Williamsport 
High  School,  which  was  once  located  here. 

Vargo  joined  the  Williamsport  High 
faculty  m  1948  as  assistant  football  coach 
The  next  year  he  was  promoted  to  the  head 
coaching  position  —  and  that  was  the  same 
year  Williamsport  became  a  full-fledged 
member  of  the  Central  Pennsylvania  Con 
ference,  Vargo  described  the  conference: 
"As  good  a  conference  as  there  was  in 
Pennsylvania." 


During  his  12  years  as  mentor  of 
Williamsport,  Vargo  coached  five  Central 
Penn  championship  teams  In  the  period 
from  1954-1957,  his  teams  were  undefeated 
at  home  and  won  40  out  of  41  games. 

Along  with  many  good  athletes  and  three 
or  four  members  of  all-state  teams,  Vargo 
reminisced,  as  the  demolition  work 
continued,  about  three  brothers  who  were 
given  first  team  all-state  berths,  a  rather 
unusual  circumstance 

The  brothers  were  George,  Harold,  and 
Lee  Fisher :  two  played  end.  and  the  other, 
halfback.  Two  other  outstanding  athletes, 
Jim  Finn  and  Bob  Reamore,  took  first 
place  honors  m  the  100,  220,  and  440  yard 
runs,  all  in  the  same  day,  at  the  state  track 
championships,  he  recalled. 


•  • 


.  and  glory 
still  echo 


.  \ 


-  T  *■  y     IfW    9Tr"    "'If   T 


Page  4  SPOTLIGHT  SepI  17,1979 

Student  Government  elects  vice  president 


Kimberiy  A  Dincher  was  elected  vice 
president  at  a  meeting  of  the  Student 
Government  Association  held  in  Room  132, 
Klump  Academic  Center  on  Tuesday. 
Sept.  4. 

A  Committee  for  Senators  was  elected 
Members  of  the  committee  are  Dave  C 
Korn,  Steve  R  Rizzo  and  John  F.  Zeiewicz 


Fall  event  has  been  changed  from  the 


last  week  of  September  to  the  first  week  of 
October 

The  Student  Government  Association 
iSGAI  held  a  dance  Wednesday.  Sept  .5. 
from  8  to  12  p  m  in  the  Lair  Strabridge 
played. 

The  SGA  also  held  a  Faculty  and  Frisbee 
Fun  on  Sept  6.  from  .1  to  7  pm.  in  the  Lair 

Mrs.  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti.  student  activi- 


jn  featuring  melon  balls,  cheese  balls,  and  date  and  nut 
after  the  groundbreaking  ceremonies  on  Sept.  5. 


Circle  K  Club 
needs  members 

The  Circle  K  Club  is  a  service  oriented 
club  formed  to  belp  underpriviledged 
people.  The  club  has  held  Muscular  Dys- 
trophy Carnivals,  programs  for  the  elder- 
ly, and  parties  for  needy  children. 

An  upcoming  project  is  a  car  wash,  on 
Sept.  29.  according  to  Harvey  H.  Kuhns 
Jr.,  club  advisor, 

The  club  is  starting  a  membership  drive. 
Any  student  interested  in  joining  this  club 
may  contact  Mr.  Kuhns. 


College  holidays  listed 

Linda  Morns,  director  of  personnel 
services,  has  distributed  out  a  list  of  the 
1979-1980  holidays  for  college  staff  and 
faculty. 

The  holidays  are: 

Independence  Day,  July  4  ( past ) . 

Labor  Day,  Sept.  3  (past). 

Thanksgiving,  Nov,  22 and 23, 

Buck  Season.  Nov.  26. 

Christmas.  Dec,  24. 25, 26. 27,  and  28. 

New  Year's  Day.  Jan.  1. 

Easter.  April  4  t  Good  Friday ) , 

Memorial  Day.  May  26. 

The  holidays  represent  a  total  of  13  days 
the  college  is  to  be  closed. 


Crabs  win  by  a  pinch 
in  Crisfield,  Md.  contest 

It  may  come  as  a  surprise,  but  contests  are  actually  held  in  the  delicate  art  of 
picking  crabmeat 

And  the  king  of  the  events  is  held  each  year  as  part  of  the  "National  Hard 
Crab  Derby"  at  the  Crab  Bowl  in  Crisfield.  Md, 

The  32nd  annual  event  was  held  over  the  weekend  and  for  the  sixth  time  top 
honors  went  to  a  Cambridge,  Md  woman,  Betty  Lou  Middleton  She  extracted 
two  pounds,  nine  and  three-quarters  ounces  of  crabmeat  in  15  minutes 

Live  crabs  also  get  into  the  act  with  the  annual  running  —  or  should  we  say. 
crawling  —  of  the  Governor's  Cup  race.  This  year's  title  went  to  "Brownie",  a 
Maryland  Blue  who  led  the  field  of  22  crabs  from  all  over  the  country  in  the  20- 
foot  dash. 

No  winning  time  was  given,  but  we're  told  that  Brownie  won  it  in  a  walk. 

—  Prom  The  Associated  Press 


ties  assistant  stated  that  elections  for 
senators  will  soon  be  held 

Mrs  Fremiotti  made  an  open  request 
that  student  body  attend  the  Student  Gov- 
ernment Association  meetings  since  SGA 
directly  affects  them. 

At  the  Student  Government  Association 
meeting  on  Tuesday.  Sept.  4.  four 
members  of  the  student  body  were 
present. 

New  nurses 
are  graduated 

Forty-five  students  who  completed  a 
one-year  practical  nursing  program  have 
been  graduated  from  the  College. 

Guest  speaker  at  the  graduation  was  Dr. 
Kudolph  Patrizio.  medical  director  at 
Lysock  View, 

Dr.  William  Homisak,  assistant  to  the 
president,  and  Mrs.  Jean  Cunningham, 
coordinator  of  the  practical  nursing 
program,  also  spoke. 

Dr,  Luene  Corwin,  assistant  dean  for  de- 
gree and  certificate  programs,  presented 
the  graduates  Grant  Berry,  retired  dean 
of  student  services,  presented  the  awards. 

Mrs.  Sally  Marino,  of  2235  W.  Third  St., 
and  Mrs  Denise  Cutillo.  of  Unityville  RD 
1.  shared  the  Ellen  Harding  Berry  Nursing 
Award,  The  Helen  A  Smith  Award  was  re- 
ceived by  Mrs  Peggy  Puskarich,  of  1414 
Franklin  St. 

The  graduates  were: 

Nancy  Barr.  2303  Fox  St,;  Mrs.  Linda 
Black.  Bloomingrove  Road;  Eva 
Hendricks.  Mrs.  Virginia  Waldman, 
WiiliamsportRDS. 

Debra  Koch.  628  Fifth  Ave.;  Hope  Little 
and  Mrs.  Christine  Nelson,  both  of 
WilliamsportRDl 

Cynthia  Rhen,  309  Howard  St.;  Norene 
Sporrow.  2229  W,  Third  St.;  Renee 
Stopper.  2502  W.  Fourth  St.;  Mrs.  Marino; 
Mrs.  Puskarich 

Mrs,  Judith  Fortin  of  250  Forrest  St., 
South  Williamsport;  Mrs,  Melody  Snyder 
Barnes,  of  Montoursviile  RD  2;  Wendy 
Thomas,  of  Montoursviile  RD  4;  Kim 
Enigk.  216  N,  Washington  St.. 
Montoursviile, 

Denise  M.  Arduini.  of  Jersey  Shore  RD 
1;  Kim  Rearick,  1405':.  Cemetery  St.. 
Jersey  Shore;  Heidi  Schneider,  of  Trout 
Run;  Marjorie  Meisel  and  Mrs.  Karen 
Firshing,  both  of  Montgomery  RD  1. 

Mrs.  Helen  Wolfe,  of  Montgomery  RD  2; 
Nancy  Myers.  119  S.  Second  St.,  Hughes- 
ville. 

Mrs.  Greta  Stradley,  of  Muncy  RD  2; 
Mrs,  Cutillo.  of  Unityville;  Bonnie  Temple, 
Kathryn  Temple,  both  of  Lairdsville. 

Toni  L.  Barzona.  of  Lock  Haven;  Bonnie 
L.  Emenhizer,  of  Flemington;  Ann  M, 
Grenell,  of  Westport  RD  1;  Mrs,  Betty 
Koser,  of  Canton;  Joy  Johnson,  of  Troy; 
Marcy  Swain  of  LeRoy;  Carol  Miller,  of 
Blossburg;  Melinda  Buck,  of  Wellsboro 
RD2 

Cynthia  M.  Ahearn,  of  Tioga  RD  1; 
Linda  Harvey,  of  Mansfield  RD  3;  Faye  F. 
Beinlich,  of  Forksville;  Nancy  H?inrich,  of 
Muncy  Valley  RDl. 

Karen  Hoot,  of  Selinsgrove  RD  2;  Mrs. 
Sherry  Lash,  of  Paxtonville;  Joyce 
Lehman,  of  Harrison  Valley  RD  1;  Eliza- 
beth Little,  of  Harrison  Valley;  Brenda 
Marr.of  Millville, 

Rec  Center    hours 

Scheduled  Recreation  Center  hours  have 
been  established  by  Mrs.  Jo  Ann 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant. 

The  scheduled  hours  are : 


Monday : 

1:30  to  10:00p.m. 

Tuesday: 

1:30  to  10:00  p.m. 

Wednesday : 

1:30  to  10:00p.m. 

Thursday: 

4:00  to  10:00p.m. 

Friday: 

I:30to4:00p.m. 

The   center   is 

closed 

over  weekends 

because  there  is 

no  student  interest,  ac- 

ft¥:WM:ftS:S:S>%!:¥iSSS¥S 


SKStSSW 


:::s:sS:¥;S¥S¥::s 


cording  to  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


Artists  plan 
New  York  trip 

Every  year.  Artists  Unlimited  travels  to 
New  York  City  to  see  the  American  Society 
of  Illustrators  Show  on  Educational  and 
Institutional  Illustrations,  reports  Patrick 
D.  Murphy,  advisor. 

The  organization,  according  to  secretary 
Miss  kathy  G,  Karchner  will  again  be 
scheduling  fund-raising  activities  for  this 
year's  field  trip. 

Events  like  last  year's  car  wash,  home- 
made ice  cream  sale,  and  hot  sausage  sale 
will  be  on  the  agenda. 

.  Miss  Karchner  added  that  Artists  Un- 
limited will  also  be  selling  its  own  student- 
designed  Christmas  cards  again  this 
winter, 

SME  advisor  comments 
on  schedule  and  plans 

The  Student  Society  of  Manufacturing 
and  Engineering  is  planning  a  full 
schedule  for  the  coming  months.  Advisor 
Chalmer  C.  VanHorn  says  that  the  second 
Monday  of  each  month  is  set  aside  for  a 
special  session  of  the  club,  which  is  open  to 
any  student  interested  in  manufacturing 
and  engineering. 

This  organization  is  a  student  chapter  of 
a  national  Society  of  Manufacturing 
Engineers,  Students  are  encouraged 
through  SME  to  build  reputable  names  in 
this  area  of  business.  Students  hear  area 
speakers  at  their  monthly  sessions,  as  well 
as  plan  fund-raising  activities  to  subsidize 
field  trips- 


The  Antifederal  party  was  the  U.S.  party 
which,  before  1789.  opposed  the  adoption 
of  the  proposed  Constitution, 


*«W:WftSft!SSSS!&-SS::K4aSKSSK5!S*-i¥^ 


Instructor  exchange 

Dr,  Edmond  A.  Watters  3rd.,  dean  of 
degree  and  certificate  programs,  reports  a 
formal  exchange  of  instructors  between 
the  College  and  The  British  Columbia  In- 
stitute of  Technology,  British  Columbia, 
Canada. 

This  exchange  is  the  first  of  its  kind  for 
the  College,  he  said. 

Representing  the  College  will  be  James 
C.  Pivirotto,  forestry  instructor.  The  rep- 
resentative   from     British    Columbia 


Sept  17.1979  SPOTLIGHT  Page  5 

planned  with  British  Columbia 


Heh, 
heh-heh" 


PBL  picnic  slated, 
new  members  invited 

The  sixth  annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  fall  picnic  will  be  held  this  Tuesday 
beginning  at  4:30  p.m.  at  the  home  of  Paul 
W.  Goldfeder,  advisor. 

A  buffet-style  dinner  will  be  served.  All 
present  and/or  prospective  members  may 
attend. 

PBL  is'  open  to  all  business  and 
computer  science  students,  and  is  still  ac- 
cepting applications  for  membership. 

Applications  are  available  in  Room  333 
of  the  Klump  Academic  Center  until  the 
end  of  October. 

According  to  PBL  president,  Andy  W, 
Wentz.  dues  should  be  paid  as  soon  as 
possible  and  before  the  end  of  October. 

A  meeting  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda  was  to  be 
held  on  Sept.  12. 

Tennis  team 
needs  players, 
meeting  Wednesday 

Any  female  students  interested  in 
joining  the  WACC  women's  tennis 
team  should  be  at  the  Bardo  Gym- 
nasium. Wednesday,  at  4  p.m..  ac- 
cording to  [tarry  C  Specht.  gym  in- 
structor. 

Specht.  who  is  also  the  head  coach 
of  the  team,  said  any  woman  who  is 
interested  in  playing  on  a  varsity 
level  and  competing  in  tournaments 
with  other  schools  should  apply. 

He  said  application  may  be  made 
by  seeing  him  during  his  office  hours 
at  the  gym 

Specht  said  the  first  tournament 
will  be  Oct.  20. 


Institute  of  Technology  will  be  James 
Simpson,  a  silviculture  instructor 

Pivirotto  will  visit  British  Columbia  In- 
stitute of  Technology  from  Sept.  28  through 
Oct.  6  and  will  reside  with  a  member  of  the 
school's  faculty  Simpson  is  scheduled  to 
visit  the  College  in  the  spring  of  1980  No 
date  has  been  set. 

Some  of  the  activities  planned  for 
Pivirotto  are: 

—Reviewing  British  Columbia  Institute 


of  Technology's  Forestry  program, 

—  Visiting  industries  and  forestry 
practices  that  differ  from  those  in 
Pennsylvania, 

-Reviewing  the  relationships  between 
provincial  agencies  and  British  Columbia 
Institute  of  Technology 

—Making  some  classroom  presentations 
in  relationship  to  Pennsylvania's 
hardwood  industry. 


Trustees  reserve  ^1.2  million  surplus 


The  college  board  of  trustees  met 
September  6  and  took  action  on  a  number 
of  items  including  the  handling  of  a  $1.2 
million  dollar  difference  between  cost  esti- 
mates and  actual  bids  for  Stage  1  of  the 
college  building  plan  The  surplus  of  funds 
will  be  kept  in  reserve  for  future  use  but  no 
plans  have  been  made  for  its  use  at  this 
time. 

The  board  accepted  the  lone  bid  for  test- 
ing for  Stage  I  of  the  building  program, 
submitted  by  Astrotech  Inc.,  of 
Harrisburg.  That  bid  was  $25,600. 

The  board  revised  salary  and  employ- 
ment policies  for  administrative,  profes- 
sional, technical  and  supervisory  (APTS) 
and  classified  staff.  The  revised  policies, 
and  a  salary  range  and  classification 
system  for  the  APTS  staff,  are  divided  into 
eight  levels  In  addition,  the  board  ex- 
tended hospital  and  major  medical  cover- 
age for  APTS,  classified  and  service  staff. 
The  sick  leave  policy  for  12  month  em- 
ployees was  extended,  giving  12  sick  days 
a  year  instead  of  10. 

Co-op  jobs 
now  available 
to  students 


There  are  numerous  co-op  job  oppor- 
tunities open  to  College  students,  ac- 
cording to  William  Bradshaw,  director  of 
Cooperative  Education, 

Bradshaw  noted  that  most  job  openings 
are  in  the  transportation  and  auto  mechan- 
ic fields.  However,  there  are  various  other 
fields  with  openings  in  all  parts  of  the 
state,  he  said. 

Interested  students  may  check  the  co-op 
bulletin  board  on  the  second  floor  of  Klump 
Academic  Center  or  contact  their  advisors 
since  there  are  many  other  opportunities 
that  are  not  listed. 

The  cooperative  education  program 
operates  11  courses  at  both  the  secondary 
and  postsecondary  levels.  Before  the  pro- 
gram was  instituted  in  the  1976-77  year,  it 
was  projected  that  the  program  would 
have  75  students  in  1978-79  and  100  in  1979- 
80.  Actually,  there  were  192  students  in  the 
1978-79  program  and  259  are  projected  for 
this  year. 

Data  collected  at  the  end  of  the  last  se- 
mester showed  that  more  than  95  percent 
of  those  participating  in  the  program  were 
employed  in  their  field,  or  one  closely 
related  to  it.  The  survey  also  showed  that 
74  percent  were  offered  employment  by 
the  employer  they  had  in  the  program. 

Movie  prices  vary 
around  country 

CEDAR  FALLS,  Iowa  —  University  of 
Iowa  students  are  paying  more  for  movies 
at  local  theaters,  but  they're  doing  well 
compared  to  other  parts  of  the  country, 

(In  the  Williamsport  Area  Community 
College  area,  the  average  price  of  a  movie 
hovers  about  $3(0  $3  501 

Checks  with  Collegiate  Consumer  Re- 
porting Service  participants  in  five  other 
cities  show  that  the  Iowa  prices  actually 
are  at  the  lower  end  of  the  ticket-price 
range. 


In  other  matters,  the  board: 

—Agreed  to  provide  Intermediate  Unit 
17  with  classroom  space  in  Klump 
Academic  Center  at  a  cost  of  $118.15.  an 
increase  of  $7  73  per  month  over  last  year. 

—Gave  permission  for  three  students 
from  the  college's  sponsoring  districts  to 
attend  Harrisburg  Area  Community 
College. 

—  Accepted  Pickelner  Fuel  Oil 
Company's  bid  for  fuel  oil  and  gasoline. 
The  accepted  bid  for  fuel  oil  will  be  the 
posted  tankwagon  price  minus  6.14  cents 
per  gallon  and  posted  tankwagon  price 
minus  3.50  cents  per  gallon  for  gasoline 

— ftatified  the  college's  1979-81  contract 
with  the  Williamsport  Area  Community 
College  Education  Association 
(WACCEA) 

In  personnel  matters,  the  board: 

—Accepted  resignations  from  Malhew 
Hillen.  assistant  professor  of  business: 
Doris  Baker,  proofreader;  James 
Rackley,  resource  development  assistant 
and  Sherry  Hillyard.  a  program  aide  for 
the  youth  Employment  and  Training  pm 
gram. 

—Approved  the  hiring  of  Patricia  Conn 
to  replace  Hillen, 

—Approved  the  addition  of  11  other  m 
structors  to  fill  vacancies  on  the  teaching 
slafi.  Hired  were:  Raymond  Greaves,  sub 
stitute  aviation  instructor;  James 
Garland,  aviation  instructor;  Jennie  Bills, 
director  of  financial  aid;  Martin 
McCormick,  career  development  assist- 
ant; Joseph  Greenberg,  special  programs 
coordinator  for  community  and  continuing 
education;  John  Kroboth,  postsecondary 
automotive  instructor;  David  Diet  rick, 
postsecondary  welding  instructor:  James 
Shaw,  postsecondary  physics  instructor, 
Harry  McKeague.  part-time 

postsecondary  engineering  graphics 
instructor,  and  David  Johnson,  postsecon 
dary  electronics  instructor, 

—Approved  payment  for  work  beyond 
contract  duties  for  two  secondary  auto- 
motive instructors.  Glen  Kline  and 
Thomas  Woodruff,  for  Anna  Weitz.  career 
development  specialist,  and  for  Thomas 
McNally.  postsecondary  counselor, 

—Approved  the  extention  of  employ- 
ment for  three  extra-curricular  advisors 
at  $880  each.  They  were:  Tony  Cillo,  ad- 


visor for  the  SPOTLIGHT;  Lea  Frymire. 
advisor  for  the  theater  group,  and  Richard 
Adams,  advisor  and  director  for  the  band. 

—Approved  the  hiring  of  Connie  Kelsey 
as  a  clerk  typist  in  the  student  records 
office  and  Susan  Stabley  as  community 
and  continuing  education  clerk.  The  board 
also  approved  the  hiring  of  nine  temporary 
and  part-time  employees  and  extended  the 
employment  of  Nancy  Reed,  a  part-time 
worker  in  the  admissions  office  Gloria 
Smith  and  Carol  Kaufman  were  granted 
additional  pay  for  assuming  extra  duties 
during  the  maternity  leave  of  Janice  Odell. 
purchasing  agent. 

—Approved  a  change  in  salary  for 
Bryson  Burkholder,  temporary  full-time 
secondary  forestry  instructor  based  on  his 
education  and  experience 

The  next  board  of  trustees  meeting  will 
be  held  October  1,  at  7:30  p.m..  in  the 
Parkes  Automotive  Building  on 
Susquehanna  Street 


!\ew  Dprelopment  ^tudieti  head 

Miss  Margaret  A.  Thompson  has  been 
given  the  position  of  heading  up  the  De- 
velopmental Studies  Department  of  the 
college. 

Thompson,  starting  her  fourth  year  at 
the  college,  is  replacing  Veronica  Muzic, 
who  resigned  June  30, 1979. 

The  Developmental  Studies  Lab  is  in 
Unit  14,  the  Rishel  Building. 


Limerick  lovers  leap 
to  lively  lecherous  levels 

If  you're  both  poetic  and  lecherous,  have  we  got  a  contest  for  you!  It's  the 
limerick  contest  held  by  Mohegan  Community  College  in  Norwich,  Conn 

Now,  limericks  are  those  rhymes  that  start:  "There  was  a  young  fellow 
named  Clyde".  ,  or  something  like  that  And  more  often  than  not,  their  "oper- 
ative words"  are  taken  from  sources  like  the  Sailor's  Handbook 

In  any  case.  Mohegan  President  Robert  Rue  says  the  contest  is  in  the  interest 
of  education 

The  proper  writing  of  a  limerick,  he  says,  is  not  unlike  that  of  a  sonnet 

He  also  points  out.  though,  that  the  contest  judge  once  again  will  be  author 
Isaac  Asimov    And  it  was  Asimov  who  said  "If  it  isn't  bawdy,  it  isn't  a 

So  if  you've  got  something  poetic,  funny  and  bawdy  to  say,  send  it  to  Mohegan 
Community  College,  The  deadline  for  entries  is  Halloween,  with  winners  to  be 
announced  by  Dec.  I. 

First  prize  is  a  huge  buffalo  nickel  mounted  on  a  wooden  stand. 

—  From  The  Associated  Press 


Pages 


SPOTLIGHT 


Sept  17.1979 


&/Amx<««''^i'y>»»^i»»^^^  >!M  -5 


Administration  building  was  once  a  trolley  barn 


By  John  Zelewicz 

Staff  Writer 

Sunday.  June  11.  1933.  1  am,  —  a(  thai 

point  in  time  an  ending  of  an  era  had  just 

occurred  in  Williamsport. 

A  trolley  car  had  just  finished  its  last 
scheduled  run.  With  it  came  the  end  of 
trolley  cars  in  Williamsport. 

What  do  trolley  cars  have  to  do  with  the 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College? 

Unit  6  was  built  originally  as  a  "car 
barn"  in  1926  at  a  cost  of  $420.(XIO,  by  the 
Williamsport  Railway  Company. 

The  car  barn  was  to  be  used  to  house  and 
service  electric  street  cars. 

The  first  floor  had  nine  tracks  entering  it 
and  could  house  up  to  45  cars, 
offices  upstairs 
The  second  floor  was  used  as  offices  and 
a  club  room  for  the  employes 

Open  house  was  held  Jan.  22,  1927  in  the 
car  barn.  Trolley  cars  and  modern  safety 
equipment  were  displayed 

However,  due  to  a  sharp  increase  in 
privately  owned  motor  vehicles  and  the 
Depression,  the  Williamsport  Railway 
Company  collapsed  in  1933. 

Un  June  10.  1933.  mere  was  a  special 
"last  run"  of  the  trolleys. 
Many  area  residents  crowded  aboard 


the  cars  for  the  last  time 

They  slopped 

The  next  day,  the  trolley  cars  stopped 
running  in  Williamsport,  after  almost  70 
years  of  service 

Though  trolley  cars  stopped  running  in 
Williamsport.  they  were  still  being  used  in 
other  areas. 

Many  of  the  trolley  cars  that  were  used 
here  were  shipped  to  San  Francisco. 
Others  went  to  Allentown.  where  they 
remained  in  use  for  many  years 

After     the     Williamsport     Railway 
Company  went  bankrupt,  the  car  barn  was 
purchased  by  R  and  G  Knitting  Mills 
School  District  buys 

R  and  G  Knitting  Mills  owned  the  car 
barn  until  September.  1942,  when  it  was 
purchased  for  $80,000  by  the  Williamsport 
School  District 

The  Williamsport  School  District  recon- 
structed  the  building  for  its  use  and  of- 
fically  opened  it  in  1946  as  a  vocational  in- 
stitute under  the  name  of  the  "Williams- 
Dorl  Technical  Institute" 

Some  ot  the  tuilion-lree  courses  offered 
were  radio  repair,  printing,  graphic  arts, 
drafting  and  sign  painting. 

Named  Unit  6' 

In  1965,  the  Williamsport  Area  Commun- 
ity College  was  formed  and  the  car  barn 


Unit6as  it  looks  today.  It  was  once  a  "c 

became  designated  Unit  6. 

Unit  6  has  changed  little  in  appearance 
since  it  became  part  of  Williamsport  Area 


r  barn"  used  tos 


e  electric* 


Community  College. 

As  one  walks  down  the  corridors  of  Unit 
6  traces  of  the  long  gone  trolley  cars  are 
still  visible. 


General  studies  students  urged  to  contact  advisor 


Because  of  the  cancellation  of  convoca-       GS  and  IS  students  who  wish  to  find  out 
tion  caused  by  a  contract  dispute,  general    who  their  advisor  is.  Dr    Sweeney  said 
studies    (GSI    students   and    individual    should  contact  him  in  Room  309.  Klump 
not  set  up  with    Academic  Center,  if  their  last  name  begins 
IbA-L. 


studies  (IS)  students 
appointments  with  their  advisors,  accord 
ing  to  Dr  Richard  M.  Sweeney.  Communi- 
cation.  Humanities,  and  Social  Science 
Division  director. 


SGA 


SludenU  whose  last  names  begin  with  M- 
Z,  he  said,  should  contact  Dr.  Robert  G 
Bowers,  in  Room  206,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 


Sweeney  said  he  is  encouraging  students 
to  set  up  an  appointment  with  the  advisor 
within  the  first  two  or  three  weeks  of  the 
semester  to  ensure  transfer  credits  are  re- 
corded, to  discuss  goals  and  course 
schedules,  and  to  let  the  student  know  that 
there  Is  someone  to  go  to  with  a  problem . 


(ContinneilfmmPafii'lf 

power  to  vote,  said  Mrs,  Fremlotti. 

Senators  are  involved  in  student 
policies.  They  give  opinions  and  control 
student  money  and  activities,  according  to 
Mrs.  KreniioIIi 

Ail  S(;  A  inrrimns.it.  ..pen  to  the  student 

populalion.sllr.ltltlril 

Outing  (,ltih  to  meet 

The  Outing  Club  will  meet 

Wednesday  at  4  p.m.  in  Room 

229.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

according  to  Roger  E,  Davis, 

club  advisor. 


Calculators  become  major  tools 
to  millions  of  college  students 


By  Cheryl  Oalhout 
CCRS  Writer 
Copyright.  Collegiate  Consu 
Reporting  Service 
With  millions  of  America's  college  stu- 
dents spending  over  $210  million 
on  hand-held  calculators,  the  si 


lormed  a  three-ton.  $200,000  computer  of  23 
years  ago  into  a  12-ounce.  hand-held  unit 
priced  at  $300  today". 

Even  with  a  wide  range  of  models  more 

financially  accessible  to  students,  three 

criteria  should  be  taken  into  account  when 

h  year    choosing  a  calculator:  personal  needs,  the 

n  chip    "nil's  power  source  and  the  manufactur- 


wonders  have  become  a  major  educational  ^■''^  warranty, 
tool.  The  most  expensive  units  —  the  pro- 
Calculators  that  used  to  cost  $1,600  a  grammable  models  —  are  like  mini-corn- 
decade  ago  now  retail  for  less  than  $10,  Piters,  said  David  J.  Blumer,  a  research 
Business  Week  magazine  reported.  And  chemist  who  earned  his  doctorate  as  a 


thci 


FREE 

Car  Pool  Advertising* 

Want  to  form  a  car  pool? 

The  SPOTLIGHT,  as  space  permits, 

will  accept  notices  (ads)  from 

students,  faculty,  and 

members  of  tfie  various  WACC  staffs 

and  administration. 

To  place  an  ad,  come  to  The  SPOTLIGHT 
office,  Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center, 
before  5  p.m.  today 

|*A  pan  ol  Trie  SPOTLIGHT  Enerov  Conservation  Etiorti 


xplosive  growth  has  'trans-     teaching  assistant  at  the  University  of 
Illinois. 

A  student,  however,  must  write  a  pro- 
gram to  solve  a  problem,  Blumer  claims, 
and  "by  the  time  he's  through  writing  it, 
he  should  have  memorized  the  equation". 

Programmable  calculators  may  be  nice, 
but  Blumer  advises  undergraduate  stu- 
dents to  buy  units  which  "fit  into  your  own 
personal  needs.  Some  want  to  get  off  as 
cheap  as  they  can,  some  want  prestige". 
Basic  calculator  adequate 

He  suggests  that  the  basic  four-function 
calculator  costing  under  $10  is  usually 
adequate  for  a  business  major  or  for 
personal  use,  but  would  be  inadequate  for 
a  student  taking  upper-level  science  or 
engineering  courses.  "Their  calculators 
need  to  be  able  to  do  logarithm,  square 
roots,  trigonometries,  powers,  and  other 
math  functions.  Usually  calculators  with 
all  these  features  can  be  purchased  for 
under $40". 

Business  calculators  may  be  needed  for 
figuring  inventory-control,  calculating 
capital  budgets,  forecasting  market 
shares,  and  a  variety  of  "financial  analy- 
sis" operations,  according  to  Peter  L. 
Bonfield,  division  manager  of  professional 


Golf  team  gets 
confident  coach 

A  special  new  face  appears  this  year  on 
the  college's  golf  team,  the  position  is  a 
new  coach. 

Dr.  Dwight  E.  Waltz,  a  MontoursviUe 
dentist  has  been  named  this  year's  new 
coach.  A  graduate  ol  the  University  of 
Pittsburgh.  Dr.  Waltz  has  established  his 
dental  practice  in  MontoursviUe.  Dr.  Waltz 
has  played  golf  for  many  years  at  The 
Williamsport  Country  Club. 

When  asked  about  the  future  of  this 
year's  squad  Dr.  Waltz's  reply  was  con- 
fident; he  said.  "We  haven't  worked  much 
yet,  but  with  more  practice  I'm  sure  we 
will  be  able  to  produce  a  number-one 
squad." 

All  home  matches  are  held  at  the  White 
Deer  Golf  Course  on  Route  15,  south.  A 
squad  of  six  members  make  up  a  squad  for 
a  match  and  some  extra  members  are  also 
included  for  substitutes. 

The  members  of  this  year's  team 
include:  Frank  K  Noll,  Kevin  J.  Shedd. 
Dennis  R.  Hackenberg.  Edward  L.  Boor. 
Jeff  K.  Peterson.  Joel  P.  Quinn,  Stephen  F. 
Reich.  Mike  D  Middleton.  Barry  J.  Mohle, 
and  Jim  R  Tamblyn  According  to  Dr. 
Waltz,  entries  are  still  open.  Anyone 
wishing  to  sign  up  should  do  so  in  Dr. 
Vargo's  office  which  is  located  on  the  first 
floor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

This  week's  match  is  against  North- 
ampton County  Community  College  at  the 
White  Deer  Golf  Course.  Thursday  Sept. 
20.  atlp.m 

The  Wildcats  lost  their  first  match 
Monday  to  Montgomery  County 
Community  College,  the  score  was  Mont- 
gomery CC  14'2,  Williamsport  CC  4'  2. 

calculators    for    Texas    Instruments    m 
Lubbock,  Texas. 

Bonfield  adds  that  studies  by  his 
company  show  more  college  students 
buying  "professional  and  scientific  calcu- 
lators with  memories,  statistical  func- 
tions, trend-lines,  etc." 

Increased  awareness 

This  trend  is  due  to  "increased  aware- 
ness of  the  capabilities  of  calculators  and 
how  they  can  be  applied  to  class  work,"  he 
contends  Blumer  basically  agrees  with 
this  assessment,  but  says,  "often  it's  just  a 
status  symbol  "  to  have  a  more  compli- 
cated calculator. 


WORLD  OF  WORK 


CAREER  OPPORTUNITIES 

AVIATION  —  Eastern  Airlines.  Inc. ;  International  Airline.  Miami  Fla.  33148, 
needs  aviation  mechanics  with  A&P  ratings.  Send  resume  to  Mr.  Hal  Clark, 
manager,  or  call  13051876-2211. 

Helicopters.  Inc  ,  P  O  Box  T.  Lafayette,  La.  70502  A4P  ratings  necessary. 
Write  Ms  Linda  Pale  or  call  (3181235-2452 

Pa.  Aviation.  Inc  .  Marissa  Road  and  Stenton.  Blue  Bill.  Pa.  19422.  Must  have 
A&P  rating.  Write  Steve  Davies. 

AUTOMOTIVE  -  Cumberland  Automotive.  Route  36,  Cumberland.  Md. 
21502-  Mechanic  knowledgable  of  Volkswagen,  Subaru,  and  Audi  vehicles.  Write 
Mr.  Jack  Wynn,  Service  manager,  or  call  ( 301 )  724-6310. 

Nichols  Farm  Equipment.  RD  1.  Bloomsburg.  Pa.  17815.  Mechanics  for 
gasoline  driven  equipment.  Call  Mr.  Richard  Nichols,  (717)  784-7731. 

Ringtown  Fram  Equipment.  464  W,  Main  St..  Ringtown,  Pa.  17967.  Write  Mr, 
James  Ambrose.  (7171889-3184, 

Enghsh  Auto  Parts  and  Machine  Shop,  407  Railroad  St..  Danville,  Pa.,  17821, 
Write  or  call  service  department.  (814)  238-6640. 

Sports  Car  Preparation,  3532  W.  College  Ave.,  SUte  College,  Pa.  16801.  Write 
or  call  service  department.  ( 814)  238-6640. 


McCormick  joins 
career  counseling 

The  Career  Development  Center,  Room 
210,  Klump  Academic  Center,  now  is  open 
for  those  students  desiring  career  counsel- 
ing. 

Research  materials  are  available  on 
career  and  life  outlooks,  transfer  plans, 
and  job  search  strategies. 

Students  may  also  schedule  appoint- 
ments to  talk  individually  with  career  de- 
velopment counselors. 

Center  hours  are  Monday  through  Fri- 
day, 8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  and  Monday  through 
Thursday  evenings  by  appointment. 

Another  career  development  assistant, 
Marty  E.  McCormick,  has  joined  to  the 
Career  Development  Center  staff. 
McCormick  was  formerly  employed  at  the 
Hope  Enterprises  Workshop,  teaching  life 
skills. 

He  has  a  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
psychology  from  Ball  State  University  m 
indiana,  and  a  master's  degree  in 
counseling  and  personnel  services  from 
Western  Michigan  University. 

McCormick  will  also  be  helping  on  the 
Career  Development  Center  Career 
Coach,  a  mobile  unit  with  career  informa- 
tion and  other  general  information  about 
the  college. 


I    Security  hints   I 

Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  chief  security  of- 
ficer, said  that  he  would  like  to  give  stu- 
dents various  information. 

The  two  new  parking  lots  located  at  the 
corner  of  Park  and  First  Streets  and  be- 
hind the  Physical  Plant  have  not  been  used 
to  their  full  capacity  up  until  now. 

With  the  two  lots  being  closed  at  the 
corner  of  West  Third  and  Susqu^-hanna 
Streets  and  beside  Bardo  Gym,  students 
and  some  faculty  will  have  to  use  the  Park 
Street  lots,  Smeak  said. 

When  going  to  the  gym  for  class,  stu- 
dents should  not  take  valuables  with  them 
if  possible.  Valuables  should  be  dropped 
off  at  the  gym  office  before  class  accord- 
ing to  Smeak. 

When  at  home,  especially  locally,  keep 
the  stereo  turned  down  late  at  night.  Loud 
stereos  often  disturb  the  residents  of  the 
neighborhood  and  could  result  in  their 
calling  the  police,  Also.  Smeak  said, 
students  should  not  throw  loud  parties  in 
their  buildings.  If  the  police  are  called  and 
alcoholic  beverages  are  found  at  the  party 
it  could  result  in  immediate  arrest  of  those 
attending  as  well  as  of  the  landlord. 

When  walking  at  night,  women  should 
walk  in  pairs  and  on  lighted  streets  when- 
ever possible  Smeak  said.  This  could  pre- 
vent a  possible  crime, 

Smeak  noted  there  is  a  spare  railroad 
track  running  near  the  parking  lots.  He  ad- 
vised students  to  park  at  least  five  feet 
away  from  the  tracks  so  that  the  trains 
which  make  occasional  runs  on  the  track 
will  have  ample  room  to  pass. 


Veterans  fraternity  accepting 
new  members  for  this  year 

The  Chi  Gamma  Iota  (C.G.I.)  is  a  serv- 
ice oriented  club  formed  to  aide  veterans. 
The  C.G.I,  is  concerned  with  veterans 
working  together  to  better  their  academic 
opportunities. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  the  C.G.L 
can  contact  Mrs,  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti  in  room 
136  or  call  extension  269. 


Firestone.  5  E.  Fourth  St.,  Wilhamsport.  mechanic  for  inspections.  Call  or 
write  Mr  Bob  Kockluski,  322-6188. 

ARCHITECT  -  Weis  Market.  1000  S,  Second  St.,  Sunbury,  Pa.  17801,  Write 
Mr.  Richard  D  Saxton,  personnel  director. 

Aggregatis  Equipment,  Inc..  Horseshoe  Road.  Leola.  Pa.  17540.  Write  Chris 
McKee.  orcall  (717)656-2131. 

S.  Grumbacker  and  Son,  100  W,  Market  St.,  York,  Pa,  17401,  Write  Barbara 
Kauffman,orcall  (717)757-7660. 

Delux  Homes.  Ninth  and  Oak  Streets,  P.O.  Box  323,  Berwick,  Pa.  18603.  Write 
Mr.  JoeCimakesky.orcall  (717)752-5914. 

ACCOUNTANT  -  Lycoming  County  Court  House.  W.  Third  St..  Wilhamsport, 
Write  Mr,  Steve  Swager, 

HarwoodCo..  1307  Park  Ave.,  Wilhamsport.  WriteMr.  John  Jones. 

MANAGEMENT  -  Penske,  8330  State  Rd.,  Philadelphia,  Pa,  19136.  Write 
Mr.  Harry  W.Glenz 

Shop  Vac,  Inc,  2323  Reach  Road,  Wilhamsport.  Write  Personnel  Department. 

BROADCASTING  -  WNBT.  Wellsboro,  Pa.,  16901,  Write  Mr.  Barer, 

WGCR.  Box  416.  Mansfield.  Pa.  16933,  Write  Mr.  Chuck  Berk, 

SECRETARIAL  -  Lock  Haven  HospiUl,  24  Cree  Dr.,  Lock  Haven,  Pa.  17745. 
Write  Kathy  Berry,  medical  transcript. 

AVCO  Finance  Services.  16  E.  Third  St.,  Williamsport.  Write  Mr.  Tom  Miller 
or  Mr.  Ken  Russell. 

Divine  Providence  Hospital,  Grampian  Blvd.,  Williamsport.  Write  Mrs.  Pat 
Miller,  medical  transcript 

CLERICAL  -  Liberty  Mutual,  1500  Sycamore  Rd.,  Williamsport.  Write  Ms, 
Barbara  Dunn. 

These  listings  were  obtained  through  the  Career  Placement  Department  in 
Room  209,  Klump  Academic  Center.  Starting  next  week,  there  will  be  a  listed 
career  opportunities  as  well  as  available  part-time  jotis.  Information  about 
these  jobs  is  available  in  Room  209,  KAC. 


Tonight 


K.A.C.  Auditorium 


M.OO 


7:30  P.M. 


Next  Week: 


Midnight  Express 


Pages  SPOTLIGHT  Sept  17.1979 

'Rap  With  Landlords'  to  be  Thursday 

■Rap  With  Landlords  "  will  be  held  from  6  to  9  p.m  Thursday  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  Cafeteria 

According  to  Mrs  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti.  student  activities  assistant,  the  session 
is  open  to  students  and  landlords  to  discuss  the  housing  situation,  she  staled 

To  answer  any  question,  there  will  l>e  representatives  present  from  legal 
services,  the  fire  department,  and  the  city  health  office 

According  to  Mrs  Fremiotti,  there  may  be  three  committees  formed  A 
landlord  committee,  student  housing  committee,  and  a  student  and  landlord 
committee,  stated  Mrs.  Fremiotti 

Mrs  Fremiotti  also  stated  that  if  "Rap  With  Landlords"  is  successful,  it  may 
become  a  regularly  scheduled  event 


Theater  group 
slates  meeting 
Wednesday 

A  meeting  of  the  Theatre  Company  will 
be  held  Wednesday  at  4:30  p.m.  in  the 
auditorium,  according  to  Mrs,  Lea  Fry- 
mire,  advisor, 

According  to  Mrs.  Frymire,  the  meeting 
will  be  held  to  discuss  the  upcoming 
Second  Annual  Theatre  Company  Variety 
show,  slated  for  nov.  20 

All  members  of  the  Company  are  being 
urged  to  attend  the  meeting  if  at  all 
possible,  said  Mrs,  Frymire. 

The  variety  show  will  exhibit  the  talents 
of  staff  and  faculty  as  well  as  the  student 
body,  said  Mrs  Frymire 


Cheerleading 
meeting            A^ 

4p.m.  today,     K^- 

a 

BardoGym. 

V^ 

niEEKLEADING 

J 

Alpha  Omega 
sets  meetings 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  will  meet  on 
Tuesday  evenings  and  even-numbered 
Thursday  evenings  from  7  to  9  p.m. 

James  V.  Phillips,  the  fellowship  chair- 
man, said  the  group  welcomes  any  student 
to  join. 

On  Tuesdays,  Bible  study  and  prayer 
meetings  are  held  in  Room  6.  On  Thurs- 
days, guest  speakers  have  been  scheduled 
to  speak  in  Room  402.  Klump  Academic 
Center 

Ruptured  fuel  line 
j)ossihle  cause  of  fire 

Fire  damaged  a  1972  Chevrolet  owned  by 
Kevin  Darting,  of  Montoursville,  on  Fri- 
day, Sept,  7, 

The  fire  was  put  out  by  another  student 
who  used  a  fire  extinguisher  from  Unit  6. 

Cause  of  the  fire  was  possibly  a  ruptured 
fuel  line,  according  to  a  member  of  the 
Williamsport  Fire  Department  which  re- 
sponded to  the  scene  when  called  by  an  in- 
structor from  Unit  6. 

No  one  was  injured.  The  car  was  towed 
away 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

MOVIES 

"The  Gauntlet"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial,  chapter  2.  7:30  tonight.  Klump 
Academic  Center  Auditorium.  $1  with  student  ID 
MEETINGS 
President's  Council.  2  30  pm  today 
Administrative  Services  Staff,  9a  m,  tomorrow 
Secondary  Principals,  1  pm  .  tomorrow 

Postsecondary  faculty  staff  development  and/or  committee,  3:30  to  5  p.m., 
tomorrow. 

Student  Government   Association,  4  p.m  ,   tomorrow.   Room    132,   Klump 
Academic  Center- 
Division  directors,  8 :  30  to  10  a  m  Wednesday 
Secondary  Counselors,  1 :30  p.m  ,  Thursday. 

Developmental  Studies  faculty  and  staff,  3:45  pm    Thursday,  Room  101, 
Rishel  Building 

FUN  NIGHT 
Fun  Night,  6  to  9  p  m  tomorrow,  Klump  Academic  Center  Cafeteria. 

FRISBEE 
Frisbee  Fun.  front  of  Klump  Academic  Center.  5pm  tomorrow 

PICNIC 
Phi  Beta  Lambda  Fall  Picnic,  tomorrow. 

LANDLORDS 
"Rap  With  Landlords",  6  to  9  p.m    Thursday,  Klump  Academic  Center 
Cafeteria. 

CROSSCOUNTRY 
CC  of  Philadelphia,  4pm,  tomorrow 
CC  of  Corning.  1p.m.,  Saturday. 

GOLF 
Northampton  County  CC,  1  p.m.,  Thursday. 

TRIP 
Canoe  Trip,  Outing  Club,  Saturday. 


L 


CONSERVE 
IT... 


J 


OCTOBER-1979 


Mark  the  Calendar! 


WEDNESDAY 


Advisory  Council  MeeTing- 
KACnm207  3-4pm 


10 


Swimmino-VWCA  15120 


Wednesday,  Oct.  10 

Jhe  Danish 
^       Gymnastics  Team       ix 


Nonhampton  CCC-A-4pm 


A  presentation 

of  The  Special  Events 

Committee 


in  Bardo  Gym 

This  Event  is  Free  to  WACC  Students 


Tickets  Available  Soon 


Other  Students  -  ^2  per  ticicet 
Non-Students  —  ^3  per  ticicet 


Yearbook  staffers  gather  today 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


^I?BU11CECJU 


y  V 


(^Monday,  Sept.  24, 1979  Vol.  15,  No.  4  8  Pages  ^ 


Thomas  quits. 
SGA  elects 
new  officers 

Kimberly  A  Dincher,  who  has  been  Stu- 
dent Government  Association  vice  presi- 
dent, was  elected  to  fill  the  position  of  pres- 
ident, when  Robert  E.  Thomas  resigned 
last  week. 

The  election  took  place  at  the  SGA  meet- 
ing held  Sept.  18. 

Tony  P.  Kopanski.  was  elected  vice  pres- 
ident to  fill  the  position  Miss  Dincher  left  to 
become  president. 

Photos  to  be  taken? 

The  Student  Government  Association  is 
mquiring  mto  the  possibility  ot  purcha^^iii;^ 
$190  worth  of  film  to  take  student  photos 
The  photos  would  then  tie  used  for  student 
identifications 

If  a  large  amount  of  students  are  in  tavor 
of  this,  two  days  would  be  set  aside  for 
students  to  have  their  photos  taken,  SGA 
senators  decided. 


(Please  turn  to  Page  3) 


Yearbook 

seminar 

underway 

Several  hundred  high  school  yearbook 
staff  members  are  expected  to  attend  to- 
day's yearbook  workshop  to  be  held  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

The  workshop  is  a  non-profit  educational 
program  sponsored  by  Herff  Jones  in  co- 
operation with  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College. 

There  will  be  both  a  morning  and  an 
afternoon  session.  The  morning  sessions 
will  deal  with  basics  of  yearbook  produc- 
tion. The  afternoon  sessions  will  deal  less 
with  the  basics  and  with  more  of  the 
creative  and  technical  directions, 
according  to  Charles  Bollinger,  workshop 
coordinator. 

The  members  of  the  staff  of  these  semin- 
ars are  Tony  Cillo,  journalism  instructor 
at  the  College:  John  Sullivan,  creative 
services  director  at  Herff  Jones;  Coy 
Harris,  director.  Victor  O'Neill  Studios ;  C 
Robert  Harer,  of  Harer  Photo  Studios,  C, 
K.  Roulette,  Northeast  regional  sales  man- 
ager. Herff  Jones;  Mrs,  Carol  Gillman. 
composition  supervisor.  Herff  Jones, 
Gettysburg;  Tom  James,  graphic  con- 
sultant; Bob  Weaner,  customer  service 
consultant;  Kip  Brown,  graphic  consult- 
ant. 

The  different  seminars  will  discuss  lay- 
out, copy,  theme  and  unity,  photography, 
finance,  and  color  and  format. 

Bollinger  is  a  representative  of  Herff 
Jones,  which  is  a  yearbook  production 
company. 


'Fall  Event'  opens  next  week 


"New  Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage"  will  play  at  the  Fall  Event'.  Mem 
the  group  are.  left  to  right:  John  Dawson,  Bobby  Black.  Patrick  Sha 
Allen  Kemp  and  David  Nelson. 


"Windfall"  will  be  the  warm-up  group  for  "New  Ridersof  the  Purple  Sage"  at 
the  concert  on  next  Wednesday,  Oi(, :'..  ;it  K  p.m..  in  (he  Bardo  Gym. 

Welcome,  yearbook  staffers! 

The  SPOTLIGHT  welcomes  high  school  students  and  their  ad- 
visors who  are  on  campus  today  to  take  part  in  the  yearbook 
workshop  sponsored  by  Herff  Jones  Company. 

The  workshop  program  indicates  a  challenging  and  informa- 
tive day. 

We  hope  it  is  one  in  which  many  new  ideas  come  to  light  and 
are  exchanged. 


ByJohnZelewic/ 
Staff  Writer 

The  Student  Government  Association* 
will  hold  this  year's  Fall  Event  next  week, 
Tuesday  through  Thursday.  Oct.  2  to  4. 

In  past  years,  the  SGA  sponsored  a  Fall 
Weekend,  with  events  on  the  weekend  and 
not  on  weekdays. 

The  time  to  hold  the  events  was  changed 
because  "this  is  a  suitcase  school;  no  one 
stays  on  the  weekends,"  according  to  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  Fremiotti.  student  activities  as- 
sistant. "It  was  changed  for  convenience 
and  at  the  request  of  students."  she  added. 

On  Tuesday.  Oct.  2,  there  will  be  a  folk 
singer,  Scott  Gailbraith.  in  front  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center,  from  Il;30  am 
to2:30p-m. 

Country  rock 

That  evening,  there  will  be  a  country 
rock  band.  "South  Bound",  performmg  in 
the  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium, 
fromSto  U  p.m. 

On  Wednesday,  Oct.  3.  Jerry  Haines  will 
perform  in  front  of  Klump,  from  U  :30a.m 
to2:30p.m. 

That  evening,  there  will  be  a  concert  in 
the  Bardo  Gym,  at  8  p.m.  "New  Riders  of 
the  Purple  Sage"  will  perform.  The  warm- 
up  group  will  be  "Windfall". 

Earth  Science  event 

On  Thursday.  Oct.  4,  Guy  Fry  will  be 
performing  at  Earth  Science,  from  11:30 
a.m.  to2:30p.m. 

That  evening,  there  will  be  a  dance  in  the 
Lair,  The  group.  "Dawn  Downing  Band", 
featuring  Freddie  Wright,  will  perform 

The  dance  will  be  from  8  p.m.  to  mid- 
night 

All  of  the  events  for  Fall  Event  are  free 
to  WACC  students  with  ID, 

The  fee  for  guests  is  $1,50  for  per- 
formance of  "South  Bound"  and  "Dawn 
Downing  Band". 

There  is  a  fee  of  $3  for  guests  to  see 
"New  Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage"  and 
"Windfall". 

Smeak  issues 
party  warnings 

Lawrence  P  Smeak,  chief  security  of- 
ficer, has  issued  another  warning  con- 
cerning off-campus  parties  in  the  wake  of 
raids  made  by  the  Williamsport  police  last 
weekend. 

Loud  parties  will  not  be  tolerated  in  the 
community  surrounding  the  college, 
Smeak  said.  If  police  are  summoned  to  stu- 
dent housing  and  alchoholic  beverages  are 
found  on  the  premises,  all  those  under  the 
21  year-old  drinking  age  will  be  arrested. 

There  are  many  families  living  among 
the  rooming  houses,  he  said.  Some  are  be- 
coming disturbed  at  the  loud  music  and  the 
rowdy  actions  of  the  others  living  nearby. 
"If  you  are  caught  with  booze,  you  will  be 
prosecuted!  '■  Smeak  warned. 


Page  2 


Sept  24, 1979 


VIEWPOINT 


Whadd'yo  say 


Since  they  dropped  odd- 
even  gas  rotioning,  do  you 
think  that  the  lines  will  be 
longer? 


Kathleen     Foulkrod,     of    Willioms-  Don  Murray,  Montgomery,  electri- 

port,   marketing  and  merchandising:      cat  technology:   "Not  around  here,   I 
"It  doesn't  reolly  matter.  "  don't  know  about  anywhere  else,  " 


Keith  Kepler,  Bucktail,  construction  Paul  Syzdek,   of  Mahanoy,   ele 

building:  'No,  it  was  never  enforced."      col:  "Not  really." 


Annita     Lav 

vton,     of     Wellsboro, 

Bob  Billingsley. 

of  Troy,  carpentry: 

business  odmii 

Tistrotion  ond  business 

■'Not  necessarily. 

People  have  more 

manogement: 

No.     People     don't 

chance  to  get  go: 

s  than  if  they  could 

really  care. 

on  odd-even." 

From  My  Desk 

From  My  Desk  is  written  by  staff  memtwrs  of  Ttie  SPOTLICUIT  who  wish  to 
comment  on  subjects  of  individual  interest.  Opinions  expressed  may  or  mav  not 
renecl  the  opinion  of  The  SPOTLIGHT 

Apofhy  resides  here 

ByDwIghtE.  Schmuck 
StoH  Writer 

Every  year,  we  at  the  College  hear  the  same  old.  tired  stotement: 
There's  nothing  to  do  around  here.  " 

Every  year,  we  hear  the  snide,  often  psuedo-sarcastic  statements 
about  how  boring  it  is  to  be  a  student  at  WACC. 

Every  yeor,  the  faculty,  staff  and  administration  of  this  institution 
present  a  variety  of  things  to  do  and  see  here. 

Alas,  every  yeor  it's  the  same  old  story.  .  .darn 


)  one  show 


up. 


Leads  to  boredom 

We  all  know  there  is  very  little  in  this  world  worse  than  an  in-bred 
case  of  apothy.  This  viscious  disease  leads  to  boredom,  tension  and 
frustration,   ,    seemingly  without  cure. 

What  can  be  done  to  stop  the  rampoging  spread  of  the  dread 
apathy?  Well,  the  Number  One  cure  recommended  by  almost 
everyone  is.  .  get  off  your  duffs  and  stort  involving  yourselves  in  the 
college  activities. 

What's  going  on? 

Just  maybe,  if  more  people  would  participate  instead  of  contem- 
plate, folks  would  find  this  really  isn't  such  a  bad  place  after  alt.  Find 
out  what's  going  on,  where  its  happening  and  what  you  can  do  to  help 
out. 

You  see,  apathy  just  doesn't  hurt  the  ones  not  getting  into  the 
oction.  It  also  strikes  down  the  folks  who  set  up  the  activities  and  ore 
insulted,  offended,  or  just  plain  hurt  when  no  one  shows  up. 

Let's  get  with  it,  people.  It  IS  up  to  you  Your  stay  here  can  either  be 
boring  or  exciting.  Just  remember,  you  make  it  one  way  or  the 
other,  ,  .just  you  and  no  one  else. 


Nuff  said? 


nnweee 


ters     from  longer    than   250  words     Alt    letters    m 

ust    be    no  signed  with  the  writers  nome,    oddre; 
telephone  number 

To  the  Editor: 

Donald  O.  Young  Sr. ,  director  of  the  around  the  Williamsport  orea. 
electrical    and    electronics    division.  The   STEP   crews   took    part   i 

wishes    to    give    recognition    to    the  painting  of  both  units  2  and  3 

Service  Troining  and   Education   Pro-  electrical  shops  and  the  tearing 

gram  (STEP)  workers.  of   old   equipment.    The    crews 

The  two  crews  formed  by  the  STEP  worked  on  and  beoutified  shru 

workers  consisted  of  10  students  from  surrounding  the  shop  buildings. 


bbery 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Aword  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  yeor, 

except  for  otiiciol  college  vacations,  by  journalism 

'  ond  other  interested  students   Office 

Room  7.  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement)   Telephone:  (717) 

326-3761.  Extension  221 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn, 

Member,  Pennsylvanio  Collegiate  Press  Assn, 

Moroging  Editor Mol/ie  S    Tomllmon 

Compus  Editor        Jon  1    Oonie/ 

Associole  Compus  Edilor John  f   Zelewlci 

Sporls  Editor Jacqueline  J   Cordens 

Phologroptiy  Edilor       Dwighl  £   Schmuck 

Senior  Slofl  Ropoiler         8rod£   English 

Reporters  ffoberl  J  Allen.  Donno  L  Ginfer.  Thereso  J  MacKemie.  John  L  ftickerl. 
BnonM  Rippey.  Trudy  M  Shively.  Cindy  M  Snook.  Kimberly  A  Steele.  Lorry  G  Steele. 
Robert  e    Thomos    ChrislinoN   Welbley 

SlotlMlM  Mlchoe/tekiles 

Conlributing  Reporter Goll  M    Thompson 

Stall  Assistont Timothy  A    Tolh 

Production  team  this  issue:  Brad  English, 
supervisor:  Bob  Thomas.  Donna  Gintner, 
Trudy  Shively,  Jacqueline  Cardene. 


Pages 


Broadcasters  win  fourth  game. 
Journalists  plan  prize  pizza 


By  Jan  Daniel 
Staff  Writer 

Proving  once  again  that  persever- 
ance does  not  always  pay, 
journalism  students  were  given 
their  fourth  annual  thorough-thrash- 
ing in  the  fourth  annual  softball 
game  against  the  broadcasters. 

Played  in  what  is  left  of  the  prac- 
tice field,  the  game  was  spiced  with 
outfielders  wiping  out  between  fur- 
rows created  by  machinery  treads, 
children  playing  on  dirt  mounds,  and 
comments  like  one  made  by  a  broad- 
casting student;  "This  is  just  like 
playing  in  the  Bronx ! " 

The  journalists  led  6-2  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  fourth  inning,  but  their 
hopes  of  a  first  victory  were  soon  to 
be  squelched. 


Slam!  Slan 


!Sla 


By  the  end  of  the  seventh  inning, 
the  broadcasters  had  gained  a  lead 
of  12-10.  And  from  then  until  the  end 
of  the  game,  their  victory  became 
sure. 

During  the  eighth  inning,  the 
broadcasters  scored  a  whopping  13 
runs,  clinching  the  victory  with  a 
final  score  of  25-10- 


While  there  was  no  trophy  to  be 
won,  a  pizza  was  promised  to  the 
winning  team,  with  the  losers 
supplying  the  reward. 

Something  special 

(Word  has  it  that  the  broadcasters 
are  a  bit  worried  about  receiving 
their  "reward"  since  Tony  Cillo, 
SPOTLIGHT  advisor,  has  said  he  is 
going  to  bake  one  of  his  "special" 
pizzas  for  them.  Special? 

Players    for    the    winning    team 

Frank  Avellino,  Clifford  Horton 
(broadcasting  instructor),  David 
White,  Chris  Reilly,  Craig  Schrock, 
Jeff  Bauman,  Wade  Flick,  Steve 
Berguson.  Mark  Gilliam.  Mark 
Ross,  Joe  Bailey,  and  Don  Neyhard. 

Journalism  team  players  were: 
Dwight  Schmuck,  Brad  English. 
Jan  Daniel.  Tim  Toth,  Jackie 
Cardene,  Larry  Steele.  Bob  Allen. 
Brian  Rippey  (team  manager  and 
athletic  director  for  The 
SPOTLIGHT,  Cindy  Snook,  Jack 
Rickert.  Donna  Ginter.  and  Bob 
Thomas. 


SPOTLIGHT  Photo  by  Dwight  E.  Schn 


Jack  Rickert  liike>.  a  mighty  swing  in  a  softball  game  between  the 
journalism  and  broadcastmg  students  Rickert,  a  journalism  student,  got 
a  hit  on  this  one,  but  the  broadcasters  won  25  to  10. 


Insurance  Library  has  SGA  president 


now  available    energy  books 


Mrs.  Nancy  C.  Elias.  R.N..  the  college 
nurse,  reports  the  availability  of  student 
health  insurance 

The  insurance,  according  to  Mrs.  Elias. 
is  24-hour  coverage  for  all  accidents  and 
prescriptions.  Mrs.  Elias  said  this  year  the 
coverage  may  also  be  extended  to  wives 
and  children  of  students. 

Mrs,  Elias  recommended  getting  the  in- 
surance coverage  since  the  college's  regu- 
lar insurance  does  not  cover  student  in- 
juries 

Mrs.  Elias  said  insurance  applications 
may  be  picked  up  at  the  dispensary  at  the 
Lair  during  nurse's  office  hours,  between  8 
a.m.  and  3:30  p.m.,  Monday  through 
Friday. 

Co-op  placement 
program  works 

Forty-seven  students  are  currently  par- 
ticipating in  the  Cooperative  Education 
program  this  semester,  according  to  Wil- 
liam C.  Bradshaw,  director  of  the  Co-op 
program. 

The  number  is  an  increase  of  about  15 
students  over  last  year  at  the  same  time 

A  large  percentage  of  the  students  are 
from  food  service,  business  and  computer 
science. 

While  the  total  number  of  students  is  up, 
the  student  placement  in  both  transporta- 
tion technologies  and  building  construction 
are  running  behind  Ihe  previous  years  It 
is  not  unusual  for  the  building  construction 
placement  to  be  down  in  the  first  half, 
Bradshaw  stated,  and  the  number  of  op- 
portunities are  expected  to  increase  in  the 
second  half  of  the  semester. 

Among  the  Hmdus.  Tuesday  is  one  of 
three  unlucky  days.  The  others  being, 
Saturday  and  Sunday. 


Perkin  Warbeck  was  a  Flemish 
imposter  who  pretended  to  the  throne  of 
England. 


According  to  David  T.  Siemsen,  director 

of  learning  resources,  the  library  has  a 
new  collection  of  books  on  energy  this 
year.  Bibliographies  for  these  books  are 
available  in  the  library.  These  books  show 
exactly  what  our  nation's  crisis  is  all 
about. 

The  library  also  offers  two  free  branches 
on  campus.  One  of  them  is  in  the  Earth 
Science  Building  The  other  is  in  the 
Parkes  Building  which  is  used  for  the  auto- 
motive curriculum.  These  extensions 
make  access  to  informative  texts  free  and 
easy  for  students. 

The  library  is  located  on  East  Third 
Street  one  block  up  from  the  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
street.  It  may  be  used  Monday  through 
Thursday  from  8  a.m.  until  9  p.m.  On  Fri- 
day, it  closes  at  5  p.m. 

Academy  has  entry  deadline 


iContinuPil friim  Pttfie  ll 

There  will  be  a  fee  of  $1  for  four  photos 
Delegate  okayed 

A  motion  was  passed  al  the  meeting  to 
send  a  Student  Government  Association 
representative  to  a  conference  to  be  held  in 
Kansas  City.  Mo.  from  Oct.  5  to  7. 

The  conference  will  deal  with  issues  con- 
cerning student  government 

Some  of  the  topics  to  be  discussed  at  the 
conference  will  be  committee  work,  solv- 
ing student  apathy,  and  communications. 

The  representative  will  be  Mis 
berly  A,  Dincher. 

Committees  formed 

The  representative's  expenses  dealing 
with  the  conference  will  be  paid  out  of  the 
Student  Government  Association  budget. 

Two  committees  were  formed  at  the 
meeting.  A  Committee  for  'Fall  Events' 


was  formed  Committee  members  are 
Donna  Houseknect.  Robert  E.  Thomas, 
Dave  Parletta  and  Mark  McGuigan 


A    gr 


Rep.  Allen  E.  Ertel  has  announced  to  all 
young  people  in  the  17th  District  that  they 
have  until  next  Monday,  Oct,  1.  to  make 
application  for  admission  to  one  of  the 
nation's  four  mihtary  academies. 

Persons  seeking  admission  to  the  Navy 
or  Armv  Academies,  or   the  Air  Force 


Academy,  or  Merchant  Marine  Academy, 
must  be  between  17  and  22  and  be  a  high 
school  senior  or  graduate. 

Anyone  interested  who  wants  to  compete 
for  a  nomination  should  contact  one  of 
Ertels  offices. 


formed.  Members  are  Richard  P  John- 
ston. Tony  P.  Kopanski,  Terry  L.  Duncan 
and  Dave  P,  Johnston. 

The  next  meeting  will  be  tomorrow  at  4 
p.m  in  Room  132,  Klump  Academic 
Center, 

Zelewicz  elected 
Kim    journalism  senator 

John  F.  Zelewicz,  a  second-year  jour- 
nalism student  from  Williamsport.  has 
been  elected  as  the  Journalism  program's 
senatorial  representative  to  the  Student 
Government  Association,  according  to 
Anthony  N.  Cillo.  advisor. 

The  senatorial  alternate  is  Cindy  M. 
Snook,  a  first-year  journalism  student 
from  Williamsport. 

The  representative  for  the  program  and 
The  SPOTLIGHT  for  the  Interclub  Council 
is  Robert  J  Allen,  a  first-year  journalism 
student  from  Williamsport.  said  Cillo. 

The  alternate  ICC  representative  is 
Brad  E  English,  a  second-year  journalism 
student  from  Monloursville 


THE  GOLDEN  DRAGON  JUDO  CLUBS 


•  Boys&  Girls  Judo  Classes 

•  Self'Defense/Ju  Jitsu  Classes 

•  Demonstrations:  Schools,  Clubs,  Etc. 

Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

Classes  Held  at 
Williamsport, 
Lock  Haven, 
Milton 
YMCA's 


PHONE  368-3295 


'  Adult  Judo  Classes 
'  Local  Tournaments 
'  Certified  Belt  Rank  Promotions 


ONE  FREE  LESSON        \ 

Ihe  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs  j 

This  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  Lesson  j 

at  Williamspoit  YMCA  j 

on  Mondays,  Wednesdays,  at  Satuidays  ■ 


I 

4^. 


Sepi  24.1979 


New  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  members  Include,  left  to  riKhl,  Michael  S.  Kekke 
Julie  C.  Kendig.  and  Cliarles  J.  Cocker. 


VIEWPOINT 

Record  review 

Better  isn't  true 

ByTheresoMocKenzie 
StoH  Writer 

If  you  liked  George  Thorogood's  "Rock  It  On  Over"  or  "Bourbon, 
Scotch  &  Whiskey",  you're  probably  interested  in  his  newest  album 
colled  "Better  Than  The  Rest"  —  which  is  hardly  an  appropriate  name 
for  it. 

Although  it's  been  out  for  three  weeks,  it  has  not  gotten  support 
irom  WMMR  and  WQSU,  both  FM  stations  that  keep  us  in  touch  with 
good  music,  new  and  old. 

I  think  the  reason  may  be  that  this  album  is  Thorogood's  newest  re- 
leose,  but  it  happens  to  be  about  his  oldest  music. 

"Better  Thon  The  Rest"  was  produced  in  1974,  but  because  of  many 
legal  hassles  with  MCA  the  olbum  has  been  standing  still  till  now.  It 
should  hove  stayed  where  it  was. 

The  music  on  this  olbum  should  not  really  be  compared  to  his  more 
recent  releases.  It  is  monotonous  and  is  significant  only  because  it  is  a 
stepping  stone  up  to  his  perfected  style. 

If  you  ore  really  into  Thorogood,  you  could  pick  this  album  up  just  to 
see  how  for  he  has  come.  Otherwise  stick  to  his  more  recent  releases 
and  future  coming  olbums. 

Movie  review 


Movie  is  confusing 

By  Donna  Ginter 
Staff  Writer 

"The  Seduction  of  Joe  Tynann"  —  although  Alan  Aldo  is  o  witty 
writer  —  left  me  heavily  confused. 

Aldo,  in  the  movie,  ploys  a  rookie  senator.  By  campaigning  against 
a  Louisiono  senator,  he  wins  a  higher  position.  During  the  proceedings 
Aldo  spends  a  lot  of  time  in  Washington,  D.C. 

He  and  his  defense  lawyer,  o  strow-blonde  heiress,  become  mutual- 
ly infatuated.  They  enioy  o  few  weekends  of  working  together  closely 
on  the  hearings. 

Then  one  weekend  Alda  gets  converted  to  devoting  himself  totally 
tohjs  family. 

In  conclusion,  I  didn't  quite  figure  out  if  he  stayed  in  politics. 

The  public  wanted  him  and  so  did  his  wife. 

What  was  he  campaigning  for? 


Michael  S.  Uekker  clowns  it  up  at  the  Lycoming      Mall     during      his 
initiation  for  UKT  pledge  week. 


To  the  Editor: 

On  behalf  of  the  Ohev  Sholom  Sis- 
terhood, I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
Jewish  students  of  your  college  to 
ottend  services  for  the  High  Holy  Days 
ot  the  Ohev  Shoiom  Synogogue. 
Cherry  and  Belmont  Streets. 
Williamsport. 

.  .  .The  schedule  of  services: 

Rosh  Ho  Shonoh,  Friday  evening, 
Sept  21,  6:50  p.m. 

First  Day,  Rosh  Ho  Shonoh,  Satur- 
day. Sept.  22.  8  a.m. 

Second  Doy.  Rosh  Ha  Shonoh,  Sun- 


day. Sept.  23,  8o.m. 

Kol   Nidre.    Sunday  evening,    Sept. 
30,  6:35  p.m.  shorp, 

Yom  Kippur,  Monday,  Oct.  1 .  9  o.m. 

in  addition,  we  will  be  pleased  to 

offer  home  hospitotity  to  any  student 

who    desires    a    home-cooked    meal 

and  or  lodging. 

If  any  students  ore  interested,  they 

should  coll  Rabbi  Norman  Singer,  322- 

7050.  or  Mrs.  Ruth  Hurwitz.  323-9078. 

Mrs.  Lisa  Block 

Corresponding  Secretary 

Ohev  Sholom  Sisterhood 

i!5SSS!ft¥*WftW::::::  : 


GET  pledges  new  members  AUjum  donations  asked  by  broadcasting  students 


Gamma  Epsilon  Tau,  graphic  arts  fra- 
ternity, held  its  ''pledge  week"  from  Sept 
10  to  14,  according  to  GET  Vice  President 
Roy  A  Hicks, 

Four  new  pledge  members  were  voted 
into  membership  at  last  Tuesday's  meet- 
ing, said  Hicks 

The  new  members  are  Michael  S.  Bek- 
ker.  Charles  J,  Cocker,  Juhe  C.  Kendig, 
and  Roxann  M  Roach 

Pledges  were  those  people  walking 
around  campus  wearing  signs  (on  which 
they  had  to  get  79  male  and  79  female  sig 
natures),  socks  on  their  hands,  and  big 

In  World  Series  pitching,  Whitey  Ford 
leads  in:  wins,  strikeouts,  innings  pitched, 
games  pitched,  walks  and  losses. 


hats  —  all  the  while  carrying  bricks 
and  raw  eggs. 

A  pledge  party  was  held  Wednesday 
evening  and  pledge  week  ended  at  noon  on 
Friday,  Sept.  14. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  holds  weekly  meet- 
ings at  4  p.m.  on  Tuesdays  in  the  GET 
room  in  Unit  6 


To  unload  ancient  golden  oldie  or  Law- 
rence Welk  albums,  there  now  is  a  worthy 
cause  to  donate  them  to. 

Broadcasting  students  are  asking  the 
student  body  to  donate  any  albums  —  new 
or  old  —  to  replace  the  records  stolen  in  a 
burglary  earlier  this  month,  according  to 
Frank  J.  Avellino,  broadcasting  student 


BW^CoSS'*" 


NSERVE 


from  Russell. 

Old  albums  that  are  too  outdated  to  play 
over  the  air  will  be  sold  and  the  money  will 
be  used  to  buy  newer  ones,  said  Avellino. 

Broadcasting  students  are  now  using  the 
albums  that  weren't  in  the  "shack"  —  as 
they  call  their  facility  —  during  the 
robbery  —  a  total  of  about  40.  said 
Avellino, 

Donations  are  needed  since  the 
insurance  claim  has  not  yet  been 
processed  and  there  are  no  funds  available 
to  buy  new  albums,  according  to  Avellino, 

Students  having  albums  they  wish  to  do- 
nate are  asked  to  take  them  to  the  broad- 
casting ■■shack".  Room  138,  Unit  6.  said 
Avellino, 


William  L.  Walker,  computer  science  student  from  Lock  Haven;  Jeffery  M. 
Magargee,  aviation  student  from  Beaver  Falls;  Emerson  L.  Peachey.  aviation 
student  from  Belleville,  and  Harvey  H.  Kuhns  Jr..  economics  instructor,  dig 
into  pancakes  and  sausage  at  the  first  Food  and  Hospitality  supper  of  the 
semester. 


Sept  24,1979 

Local  Writers 
share  interests 

By  Jan  Daniel 
Staff  Writer 
lx}cal  journalists  will  be  featured  in  in- 
formal lunch-time  meetings  scheduled  to 
begin  Friday,  Oct  12.  according  to  Dr. 
Richard  M.  Sweeney,  director.  Division  of 
Communications.  Humanilites,  and  Social 
Science. 

The  meetings,  called  "Your  Own  Bag", 
will  be  held  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center.  Room  415,  from  noon  until  1  p.m.. 
Sweeney  said. 

Topics  to  be  discussed  reflect  a  wide 
range  of  interests,  with  the  speakers  en- 
couraged to  share  their  interests  with  the 
group. 

Discussions  Open 
Meetings  will  be  followed  by  an  open  dis- 
cussion period.  Sweeney  said. 

Speakers  scheduled  to  appear  are  John 
Boylan.  writer  and  publisher  of  "An  Inside 
Guide  to  Lewisburg  and  the  Woods  and 
Fields  that  Surround  It",  who  will  speak  on 
Solar  heat  technology  on  Oct.  12. 

Susan  Brook,  a  feature  writer  for  the 
Bloomsburg  "Morning  Press"  will  speak 
Nov,  9  concerning  the  duties  her  job  en- 
tails. 

Free-lancer  to  speak 
Ted  Fenstermacher.  a  free-lance  writer 
for  the  GRIT  and  the  Reading  Eagle  will 
speak  on  building  an  Alpine  chalet, 
organic  gardening,  and  raising  Nubian 
goats  on  Dec.  7, 

Other  speakers  include  AI  Elmer,  the  na- 
tional editor  for  the  GRIT;  Naomi 
Woolever.  a  former  journalism  program 
head  and  advisor  to  the  SPOTLIGHT;  and 
Rebecca  F.  Gross,  the  editor  emerita  for 
the  Lock  Haven  Express. 


Page  5 


Square  dance  caller  Stan  Weaver  really  has  them  stepping  lively  at  the  da 
held  rollowing  Food  and  Hospitality's  pancake  supper  Sept.  12. 

Pancake  supper  rated  'super'  by  Dean  Mauch 


The  Food  and  Hospitality  Organization 
sponsored  a  pancake  supper  Wednesday, 
Sept.  12,  in  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Attendance  was  much  lower  than 
expected,  according  to  Mrs.  Vivian  Moon, 
advisor  of  the  group.  She  said  25  students 
and  faculty  members  attended. 

While  interest  was  poor,  in  no  way  did  it 
indicate  the  quality  of  the  meal  the  guests 
received,  said  persons  who  attended, 
Harvey  H.  Kuhns  Jr..  associate  professor 


of  economics  said  of  the  meat:    "Very 
good,  fine  kick-off  to  a  new  season. " 

"Super,  I  think  we  ought  to  do  this  more 
often  —  especially  for  the  night  people." 
said  Dean  of  Community  and  Continued 
Education,  Russell  C.  Mauch. 

Mrs.  Moon  speculated  that  the  lack  of 
parking  space  around  the  building  was  a 
contributing  factor  to  the  poor  turn  out  for 
the  event. 


WORLD  OF  WORK 

Information  about  any  of  the  following  jobs  may  be  obtained  at  the  Placement 
Office,  Room  209,  Klump  Academic  Center 

Part-lime  Jobs 

Tomato  pickers  wanted,  dial  323-5liOO  after  7  pm. 

Babysitter  needed  in  home  to  care  for  two  children.  Second  shift  with  rotating 
days  off.  Phone  323-5247 

Mother  of  three  children  in  need  of  babysitter,  first  shift.  South  Williamsport 
area  Phone  322-6564. 

Waitress  or  waiter  for  part  time  day  and  night  shifts.  Apply  in  person  Monday 
through  Friday,  10  a  m.  to  4  p.m.  Ramada  Inn,  2401  E.  Third  St. 

CAREER  OPPORTUNITIES 

AVIATION  —  Eastern  Airlines,  Inc. ;  International  Airline,  Miami  Fla.  33148, 
needs  aviation  mechanics  with  A&P  ratings  Send  resume  to  Mr.  Hal  Clark, 
manager,  or  call  (3051876-2211. 

Helicopters,  Inc  ,  P  O  Box  T,  Lafayette,  La.  70502.  A&P  ratings  necessary. 
Write  Ms.  Linda  Pate  or  call  (318)  235-2452. 

Pa.  Aviation,  Inc.,  Marissa  Road  and  Stenton,  Blue  Bill,  Pa.  19422.  Must  have 
A&P  ratmg.  Write  Steve  Davies. 

AUTOMOTIVE  -  Cumberland  Automotive,  Route  36.  Cumberland,  Md. 
21502.  Mechanic  knowledgable  of  Volkswagon.  Subaru,  and  Audi  vehicles.  Write 
Mr,  Jack  Wynn,  Service  manager,  or  call  (301 1  724-6310. 

Nichols  Farm  Equipment,  RD  1,  Bloomsburg,  Pa.  17815.  Mechanics  for 
gasoline  driven  equipment.  Call  Mr.  Richard  Nichols,  (717)784-7731. 

Ringtown  Fram  Equipment,  464  W.  Main  St..  Ringtown,  Pa.  17967.  Write  Mr 
James  Ambrose,  (717)889-3184. 

English  Auto  Parts  and  Machine  Shop,  407  Railroad  St.,  Danville,  Pa.,  17821 
Write  or  call  service  department,  (814)  238-6640. 

Sports  Car  Preparation,  3532  W.  College  Ave  ,  State  College,  Pa.  16801  Write 
or  call  service  department.  (814)  238-6640. 


AT  THE  KEYBOARD 
.  .  .Tom  Serabian 

Singer 
to  perform 
on  campus 

Tom  Sei  >.ian,  singer  and  pianist,  will  ap- 
pear in  a  coffeehouse  on  Thursday.  Oct.  11. 
from?  to  10  p.m.,  according  to  Mrs,  Jo  Ann 
R.  Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant. 

SeiMan,  who  writes  most  of  the  songs  he 
performs,  has  appeared  in  concert  as  the 
lead  act  with  such  people  as  Kelly  Mon- 
teith  and  Livingston  Taylor.  He  performs  a 
variety  of  tunes,  covering  rock  n'  roll  to 
country  to  jazz. 

A  performer  who  communicates  with  his 
audience  in  his  own  personal  style.  Serbian 
has  appeared  at  numerous  coffeehouses  in 
the  New  York-Pennsylvania  area  as  well 
as  New  England.  He  is  also  a  popular  act 
in  nightclubs. 


kathy  Radspinner  and  Lester  Hirsch, 
who  form  the  band  "Jerusalem",  played 
at  the  first  coffeehouse  held  in  September 
in  the  student  lounge  of  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

I  Danish  Gym 
I  team  bounces 
I  to  Bardo  Gym 

According  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti, 
:>  student  activities  assistant,  the  Danish 
x  Gymnastic  team  will  hold  a  performance 
:;■;  hereon  Wednesday.  Oct,  10. 

Admission  will  be  free  to  all  WACC  stu- 
;::;  dents. 

Admission  will  be  charged  for  other 
ij:  students  and  to  the  general  public.  The 
!:::  price  for  students  who  do  not  attend  WACC 
:;!;  will  be  $2,  All  others  will  have  to  pay  $3. 

The  performance  will  feature  an  en- 
x  trance  march  and  rhythmical  gymnastic 
'■:■:■_  production  ( team  gymnastics  to  music) 

There  will  be  displays  of  fundamental 


:  gyn 


jaz 


gyn 


and 


;  gymnastics  with  partners, 

There  also  will  be  a  dance  with  stream 

:  ers,  classic  series,  trampoline  tumbling, 

rnpc    skipping,    vnulling    and    tumbling, 


npi.^.ti. 


Ill)    I'.ilU 


oiki 


Sept  2'»  1979 


Rowing 

and  dreaming 

and  sitting  in  the 

sun.  .  .the  Outing  Club's 

idea  of  having  some  fun 


Outing  Club 
rides  canoes 


Outing  Club  advisor  Roger  E.  Davis,  at 
the  end  or  the  trip,  shows  there  is  work 
involved  In  even  a  pleasant  afternoon 
spent  on  the  water. 


Photos  and  text 
by  Donna  Ginter 


The  Outing  Club  plunged  right  into  the 
school  year  with  their  scheduled  activities 
The  club  set  out  to  conquer  the  Lycoming 
Creek  on  Thursday.  Sept.  13 

The  club,  floating  five  canoes  and  three 
kayaks,  successfully  tamed  the  stream 
They  shoved  off  just  below  Powys  at  3  p  m 
and  finished  near  Garden  View  about  5 


Participating  members  were: 

Roger  E.  Davis,  club  advisor,  Anita 
Lawton,  Beth  L  Fischer,  Sandy  Narabet- 
ski,  Brenda  A.  Long,  Joanne  DiNardo. 

Also,  Michael  S.  Suprock,  Pat  K,  Kelly, 
Laurie  I  Lubold,  Christin  Carberry, 
Marlene  Hillyard,  Ray  Tyler 


Kayaking  is  tun,  not  only  In  while-water, 
but  also  on  a  glassy-topped  creek  under- 
neath a  September  sun. 


Two  people  taking  it  easy,  lazily  canoeing  away  an  autumn  afternoon  i 
Lycoming  Creek.  This  is  the  Outing  Clubs  idea  of  serenity.  .  .maybe  they  ha' 
something. 


Winter  grads 
petition  urged 

In  order  to  assure  participation  in  the 
December  graduation,  a  petition  for 
graduation  form  must  be  completed  no 
later  than  this  Friday. 

If  the  form  is  not  submitted  by  this  date, 
the  name  will  not  appear  on  the  graduation 
program  In  addition  the  student's  trans- 
cript will  show  termination  rather  than 
graduation. 

To  complete  the  necessary  form,  stu- 
dents should  report  to  the  Records  Office. 
Room  no.  Klump  Academic  Center, 

Enrollment  surpasses 
/a.sf  year's  figures 

Enrollment  figures  for  the  fall  semester 
of  1979  have  topped  those  of  last  fall,  ac- 
cording to  the  student  records  office 

There  are  2.506  full-time  students  and 
555  part-time  students:  a  total  of  :i,061  The 
figures,  however,  do  not  include  off- 
campus  students  or  students  enrolled  in 
the  practical  nursing  program 

Last  year's  total  enrollment  figure  was 
3.019 


Bud  Zzzip  is 
no  longer  last 


By  Charlie  Keina 

Here's  something  that  even  "Sesame 
Street"  won't  tell  you.  The  letter  "A"  has  a 
phone  number,  ,  ,in  fact,  it  has  several. 

The  "Big  Book"  is  out  alt  over  New 
York  The  1979-80  version  of  the  manhattan 
telephone  directory,  that  is , 

And  for  what  it's  worth,  the  new  edition 
has  more  that  777-thousand  listings. 

The  honor  of  being  last  in  the  book  has 
shifted  from  "Bud  Zzzip"  —  with  three  Zs 
—  to  an  entry  that  has  only  two  Z's  but  has 
23  other  letters  and  is  impossible  to  pro- 
nounce And  the  directory's  number-one 
listmg  is  for  an  advertising  firm  that's  one 
of  several  entries  using  only  the  letter 
"A," 

Some  other  facts  for  you  "Bell  File:" 

The  most  common  of  manhattan's  list- 
ings is  the  name  "Smith,"  with  32-hundred 
entries.  "Brown"  is  second  with  26-hun- 
dred.  and  "Williams"  third  with  24- 
hundred 

—  From  The  Associated  Press 

William  Shakespeare  was  buried  in  the 
chancel  of  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in 
Stratford,  England 


Services  to  be 
held  nights 

The  office  of  Community  and  Continuing 
Education  is  offering  an  evening  Tot 
Watch  service  on  an  experimental  basis 
for  this  semester  and  the  coming  spring 
semester,  said  Dr  Russell  C  Mauch, 
dean. 

The  service  is  provided  for  children  aged 
four  to  eight,  whose  parents  have  evening 
classes  or  use  the  college  library. 

The  hours  are  5:45  p.m  to  10:15  p.m. 
Monday  through  Thursday. 

There  is  a  one-time  registration  fee  of  $5. 
Hourly  charges  are  75  cents  per  child,  re- 
quired to  be  paid  one  week  in  advance.  No 
meals  will  be  provided. 

Additional  details  are  available  from 
Miss  Lizabeth  C.  Cooney  She  can  be 
reached  through  the  continuing  education 
office  on  the  first  floor  of  the  Klump 
Academic  Center 


Off-campuh  programs 
offered  ^for  everyone' 

Ofl-campus  programs  of  the  college 
were  started  about  three  years  ago  to  aid 
the  community  in  continuing  education 

Credit  courses  are  made  available  in  the 
Canton/Trov,  Hughesville.  Selinsgrove, 
Mifflinburg.  sullivan  County.  Wellsboro, 
Montgomery,  Lock  Haven.  Liberty,  and 
Jersey  Shore  areas . 

Prison  programs  are  offered  to  inmates 
at  the  Lewisburg  Federal  Penitentiary  and 
the  Allenwood  State  Penitentiary  for 
credited  courses  in  acquiring  special 
certificates. 

Training  in  fire  science  is  also  made 
available  through  the  off-campus 
programs  in  several  counties. 

According  to  Thomas  E  Vargo,  direc- 
tor, about  2,600  students  are  being  reached 
through  the  off-campus  programs  —  not 
including  prison  and  fire  programs. 


Football 
kicks  off 

By  Brian  Kippey 
Staff  Wrilor 

The  1979  intramural  football  program 
got  under  way  last  Tuesday  afternoon  with 
four  games  being  played  on  the  hockey 
field. 

The  Wild  Bunch  used  a  second-half 
safety  and  good  field  position  to  down 
LaRue's  Jocks,  13-6,  in  one  of  the  opening 
day  contests. 

In  other  gannes: 

Saw  Dusters  ran  back  two  interceptions 
in  a  row  to  defeat  the  Steelers  24-6, 

The  T  Birds  scored  touchdowns  in  their 
first  two  possessions  and  held  on  to  edge 
Marvier  House  13-7- 

The  Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits  white- 
washed the  McChickens  8-0, 
Rules  outlined 

Tom  Gray,  director  of  intramural  activi- 
ties, has  set  the  following  rules  for  the  1979 
season : 

All  games  will  be  played  on  a  50-yard 
field  with  eight  men  on  a  side. 

Halves  will  be  15  minutes  in  length  with 
a  three-minute  intermission  between 
halves 

There  are  no  timeouts  and  the  clock  will 
run  continually  throughout  the  contest. 

No  metal  spikes,  helmets,  or  shoulder 
pads  are  permitted. 

No  kick-offs  or  punts  are  allowed, 

A  coin  will  be  tossed  before  each  game 
and  the  offense  will  put  the  ball  in  play  at 
the  40  yard  line. 

Fumbling  the  ball  results  in  a  dead  ball 
at  the  point  it  touches  the  ground. 
Could  be  dropped 

Gray  warns  any  team  who  forfeits  two 
games,  for  having  less  than  seven  players, 
will  be  dropped  from  the  program. 

This  year,  there  are  13  teams  in  the 
league,  divided  into  two  divisions,  A  and  B. 

Division  A  consists  of  Wild  Bunch,  Chris- 
tian Soldiers,  Just  Head,  Saw  Dusters,  The 
Hutch  Ones,  and  LaRue's  Jocks, 

The  Dukes.  McChickens.  T  Birds,  Sir 
Timber.  Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits, 
Marvier  house,  and  the  Steelers  make  up 
Division  B, 

Schedule  for  this  week's  contests: 
Tomorrow,  6  p.m. 

Field  one,  Wild  Bunch  vs.  Christian 
Soldiers. 

Field  two.  Just  Head  vs.  Saw  Dusters, 
6:45 

Field  one.  Dukes  vs.  T  Birds. 

Field  two.  McChickens  vs.  Sir  Timber 
Wednesday  6  p.m. 

Field  one,  Hutch  Ones  vs.  LaRue's 
Jocks. 

Field  two,  Saw  Dusters  vs.  Wild  Bunch. 
6:45 

Field  one.  Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits  vs, 
Marvier  House. 

Field  two,  Dukes  vs,  McChickens, 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  will  meet  on 
Tuesday  evenings  and  even-numbered 
Thursday  evenings  from  7  to  9  p.m. 


The  B&M  DINER 

1170  W.  4th  St. 

Under  New  Management: 
Jim  &  Vivian  Ensinger 


10%  DISCOUNT 

With  WACC  ID 

on  all 
SUBS,  PIZZAS, 
OR  DINNERS 


Gary  I*  duzak.  building 
technologies  student  from 
Pittsburgh,  is  one  of  the 
students  working  on  the  door- 
way of  the  Food  and  Hospital- 
ity Lab  in  Klump  Academic 
Center.  Mrs.  Ann  Miglio.  in- 
structor, said  the  doorway  is 
being  enalrged  into  double 
doors  to  facilitate  moving 
carts  in  and  out 


High  fiber  diet  is  the  healthiest 


By  Marianne  J.  Pryor 

One  of  the  latest  recommendations  for 
Americans  from  nutrition  researchers  is 
to  increase  the  amount  of  fiber  — 
roughage  —  in  the  diet. 

Modern  milling  methods  —  started 
around  1880  —  drastically  removed  the 
amount  of  roughage  in  flour.  And  re- 
searchers have  found  the  trend  to  pro- 
cessed foods  coincided  with  increased  inci- 
dence of  serious  health  problems  in  this 
country  —  such  as  heart  disease,  obesity, 
cancer,  appendicitis  and  diverticulitis. 
No  cancer 

African  groups,  by  contrast,  eat  a  high- 
roughage  diet.  And  they  have  practically 
no  heart  disease,  cancer,  or  other  such  ail- 
ments. 

Incidence  of  cancer  of  the  colon  and 
rectum  —  the  most  common  cancers  re- 
sulting in  death  —  is  lowest  in  areas  with 
the  highest  amount  of  roughage  in  the  diet.      ^ - 

X-country  team  loses  % 

opening  meet  at  Bucknell  J 

The  Wildcats  lost  their  opening  cross-      ^ 
country  meet  when  they  were  defeated  in  a 
triangular   meet   at    Bucknell   Saturday, 
Sept.  15, 

Bucknell's  JV's  came  out  on  top  scoring 
15.  Colgate,  the  other  participating  team, 
came  out  second  scoring  22.  The  overall 
score  of  the  meet  was  Bucknell  JV,  15,  and 
Wildcats  JV  50.  Colgate  22..  Wildcats  33, 

The  next  meet  is  scheduled  for  this  Sat- 
urday. Sept.  29.  against  Mansfield  JV  The 
meet  will  be  held  at  Mansfield  State 
College 

Classifieds       < 


Doctors  have  also  found  that  high-fiber 
diets  may  prevent  hemorrhoids  and 
varicose  veins.  The  increased  roughage 
lowers  abmoninal  pressure,  preventing 
blood  from  pooling  in  the  veins. 
Water  is  basic 

Not  all  the  evidence  is  in  yet  on  high- 
fiber  diets  But  the  evidence  indicates  the 
best  food  may  be  that  which  is  as  close  to 
possible  as  its  natural  state. 

Hydration  should  be  a  major  concern  for 
athletes.  Regularly  scheduled  fluid  intake 
helps  maintain  energy  levels  during  exer- 
cise —  whether  it's  running  or 
match. 

The  myth  about  not  drinking  wafer  of 
other  fluids  during  competition  goes  back 
a  long  way.  The  experts  now  recommend 
that  you  frequently  take  a  drmk  if  you  feel 
the  need  —  while  exercising. 

— From  The  Associated  Press 


Varsity  hockey  | 
opens  season 

Tomorrow  slates  the  opening  of  the 
women's  varsity  field  hockey  season.  The 
seasons  opener  is  with  Northampton 
County  Community  College,  at  4  p.m  ,  on 
the  practice  field  behind  Unit  6 

According  to  Miss  Marti  Bryant,  field 
hockey  coach  and  physical  plant  secre- 
tary, this  year's  squad  looks  very  hopeful. 

She  said,  "We  are  going  to  take  each 
step  as  it  comes;  we  have  a  reasonable 
chance  to  come  up  with  a  victory  against 
Northampton." 

Dr  Thomas  E.  Vargo,  director  of  physi- 
cal education,  also  predicts  a  win  against 
Northampton. 

The  girls  have  been  practicing  hard 
since  the  beginning  of  this  month  working 
on  drills  and  brushing  up  the  game.  Scrim- 
mages with  Lycoming  College  have  also 
tested  the  ability  of  the  team 

This  year's  squad  has  14  members  and 
one  student  manager  The  team  includes: 
Captain,  Janet  M  Kreamer  iPNi.  Steph- 
anie Bean  (BAl.  Eva  J.  Benner  (DH>. 
Jackie  J  Cardene  ( JOi.  Amy  J  Crawford 
(BA).  Donna  L.  CIsasser  (CSi.  Julie  A. 
Erb  ( FH ) .  Kay  L.  Heffelbower  ( BS ).  Alice 
M.  Kennedy  IPN).  Cathy  J.  Leilzel  (CS). 
Toni  L.  Mabie  iCS).  Linda  E.  Whaley  (SS), 
and  Jerri  L.  Womcldorf  (GS). 

Anita  Lawton  I  BAl  is  the  student  man- 
ager. 

More  members  needed 
for  intramural  bowling 

Entries  are  still  open  for  any  student  in- 
terested in  intramural  bowling 

According  to  Thomas  G  Gray,  assistant 
professor  of  physical  education  and  direc- 
tor of  intramural  activities,  more  partici- 
pants are  needed  for  this  year's  season. 

Gray  noted  there  are  so  far  enough 
people  for  onK  throe  leam^  He  said  that  if 
more  people  do  not  sign  up.  intramural 
bowling  may  be  cancelled  for  this  year 

Those  students  who  are  interested  in 
signing  up  may  do  so  at  the  IM  bulletin 
board  on  the  first  floor  of  the  Bardo  Gym 


V 


* 


Discount  Rates  for  College  Students 

as  low  as  $3  00  pei  weel( 

foe  a  year's  membeiship 

Also  weekly,  4-iyeek,  3monlh, 

and  6-month  memberships 

Complete  Weight  Training  Facilities 

Sauna  •  Showers  •  Lockers 

Food  Supplements 

Hows  Mondayfnila,  12  301O830 
Salwda,  1]  00  to  4  00 

607  Hepburn  St.  Phone  322  4065 

Williamspoil.  Pa. 

Wiltim  Walking  Distance  ol  tlie  College 


WILL  DO  TYPING 


TYPING  done  In  my  home  with  electric  type- 
writer; cleon  manuscripts  produced.  Any- 
time. Reosonable  rotes.  Call  368-8965. 


CAR  POOL 


CAR  POOL  -  I  would  like  a  nde  on  any  or  all 
days  from  WACC  to  Lock  Haven  at  2  p  m.  Contact 
Jean  May  in  Unit  6,  Architecture  Section  on 
second  floor  or  call  748-8424  alter  5  p.m 


ANNOUNCEMENT 


Photography,  free  lance:  call  322-8076  after  6 


Freelance  Photographer   Need  pix  taken?  Call 
435-0521. 


LAST  DAY! 

This  Friday,  Sept.  28 

is  the  last  day  to  file 

Petition  for  Graduation 

for  December  Graduation 


Bring  f  ermt  to  Records  Of  fit* 
in  Kiump  Academic  Center 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


Open  for  Breakfast:  7  i 


The  Danish 
Gymnastics  Team 

Bardo  Gym 

Wednesday,  Oct.  10 

This  Event 
is  Free  to 

WACC  Students 
//       Other  Students  — 
«2  per  ticicet 

Non-Students  — 
^3  per  ticicet 


A  presentation 

of  The  Special  Events 

Committee 


Tonight! 

7:30  P.M. 
Klump  Auditorium 

4.00 


"A  film  of  unrelenting  flower,  fury... 
and  hof^e. ' '  -  Gene  Shalit,  NBC-TV 


Next  Week: 
The  Goodbye  Girl 


Jo 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


^I^BUILIJECJU 


Q  Monday,  Oct.  1,1979       Vol.  15,  No.  5  4  Pages         ~) 


Officials  at  the  rap  session  were,  in  front.  Lou  E.  Adams,  paralegal  and  from 
left.  George  A.  Dooris.  city  health  officer:  Pelligrino  DiMarco.  city  fire  inspec- 
tor; William  G.  Hayes,  city  fire  chief:  Capl.  Frank  V.  Kovalesk.  city  police  de- 
partment: and  Capt.  Matthew  M.  Kook.  also  of  the  city  police  department. 

Renters  rights  discussed 


The  first  Rap  with  Landlords  meeting 
was  held  Sept,  20.  In  the  cafeteria  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center.  This  meeting 
was  to  benefit  landlords  and  student  rent- 
ers with  an  open  discussion  on  the  rights 
and  responsibilities  of  both  parties. 

Speakers  in  attendance  were; 

Lou  E.  Adams,  paralegal  from  legal  aid 
services 

George  A.  Dooris.  Williamsport  health 
officer 

Pellegrino  DiMarco.  Williamsport  fire 
inspector 

Chief  William  G,  Hayes,  city  fire  chief 

Capl.  Frank  V.  KovaleskI,  Williamsport 
police  dept. 

Capt  Matthew  M.  Rook.  Wiiliamsport 
police  dept. 

The  meeting  opened  at  6  p.m.  with  a 
short  talk  by  Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean 
for  student  and  career  development,  then 
was  opened  to  the  public  for  questions  to 
the  officials. 

The  first  question  from  one  of  the  more 
than  fifty  people  in  attendance  was  "What 
is  the  purpose  of  the  (Williamsport  police 
departments )  strike  force?" 

Capt.  Kovaleski  answered.  ".  .  .we've 
had  many  complaints  from  citizens  and 
our  intent  is  to  clean  up.  .  .the  problem 
areas." 

Kovaleski  also  said,  "Whenever  they 
(the  strike  force)  see  the  law 
broken.  .  .they  better  take  appropriate  ac- 
tion, '  He  also  said  if  any  arrests  were  in 
order,  arrests  would  be  made  and  that  only 
".  .  .people  breaking  the  law  get 
arrested." 

Kovaleski  also  stated  that  the  police  de- 
partment has  no  intention  ol  harrassing 
college  students.  He  said  the  only  times  the 
police  would  raid  any  house  being  rented 
by  college  students  would  be  if  conditions 
warranted  a  raid. 

Kovaleski  said  these  conditions  would  in- 
clude overly  loud  music,  parties,  and  com- 
plaints from  the  neighbors.  He  said  if  one 
residence  had  several  complaints  lodged 
against  it,  police  action  would  be  taken  to 
stop  the  complaints. 


Kovaleski  said  this  action  could  even  in- 
clude having  the  residence  staked  out  for  a 
period  of  time  in  order  to  catch  the  law- 
brenkers.  StIU.  he«tree8ed  tb&(act  that  the 
police  were  only  after  definite 
lawbreakers,  not  the  student  body  as  a 
whole. 

Another  question  from  the  audience  was 
from  one  of  the  landlords.  He  asked  if  it 
was  nessessary  to  have  a  fire  extinguisher 
in  the  kitchen  of  a  rental  residence. 

Chief  William  G.  Hayes  of  the  Williams- 
port fire  dept,  said  there  is  an  ordinance 
making  it  mandatory  to  have  a  fire  ex- 
tinguisher in  each  kitchen.  He  stated  the 
law  says  these  extinguishers  must  be  ap- 
proved and  charged  at  all  times,  ready  to 
be  put  into  use  24  hours  a  day. 

Hayes  also  said  there  is.  at  present,  no 
law  requiring  smoke  or  fire  detecting 
alarms  He  said  that  he  is  working  on  an 
ordinance  that  would  mandate  their 
presence  and  use  in  all  multi-family 
houses  and  apartment  houses. 

Hayes  said  in  all  his  years  as  a  fireman 
he  has  learned  that,  "-  .  most  people  don't 
die  from  burns  in  a  fire,  they  die  from 
smoke  inhalation  ■ 

Another  of  the  problems  brought  out  at 
the  rap  session  was:  Does  a  landlord  have 
the  right  to  barge  into  an  apartment  any 
time  he/she  chooses ■* 

According  to  Lou  E  Adams,  paralegal 
from  the  county  legal  aid  service,  a  land- 
lord does  not  have  this  right.  He  said  a 
landlord  has  the  right  to  inspect  his 
premises,  but  he  must  make  an 
appointment  to  do  so  No  one  has  the  right 
to  invade  the  renter's  privacy  any  time  of 
the  day  or  night,  according  to  Adams 

One  young  woman  asked  when  heat 
must  be  provided  by  the  landlord  George 
A,  Dooris.  city  health  officer,  said  the  city 
ordinance  on  heating  required  dwellings  to 
have  heal  provided  from  Sept.  15  until  May 
15. 

One  of  the  main  topics  of  concern  at  the 
session  was  the  handling  of  underage 
drmkers  Capt.  Kovaleski  said  that  anyone 
caught  drinking  or  posessing  alcohol  while 
under  the  age  of  21  would  be  dealt  with  ac- 
cording to  the  state  law, 
iPlfiLse  turn  tit  t'nfie  tl 


Mechanics 
receive  cash 


Four  second-year  diesel  mechanic  stu- 
dents have  each  received  a  $750  award 
from  the  penske  Corporation  of  Reading, 
according  to  Marlin  M  Roush,  director, 
division  of  the  transportation  technologies. 

David  A.  Wilson,  of  Wysox;  Donald  G. 
Casterline,  of  Shickshinny ;  Kevin  J 
Yeager,  of  Watsontown.  and  Norman  J. 
Quick,  a  Philipsburg  graduate,  were  the 
students  selected  by  Penske  Corporation. 
Selection  was  based  upon  academic  per- 
formance, knowledge  in  diesel  mechanics, 
and  managerial  potential,  said  Roush. 

Robert  Carter,  vice  president  of  Penske 
Corporation  who  presented  the  awards, 
said  he  was  pleased  with  the  outstanding 
training  and  scholastic  achievement  of  the 
students.  Carter  added  he  is  looking  for- 
ward to  their  joining  the  company  upon 
graduation  in  May, 

Penske  Corporation  is  one  ol  the  lop  ve- 
hicle leasing  firms  in  the  East  and  Is 
presently  expanding  to  more  cities  east  of 
the  Mississippi  River.  Carter  said  the  stu- 
dents could  be  placed  at  any  one  of  the 
company's  sites, 

IVnn  Stale  representatives 
to  answer  transfer  ([uestioiis 

Admissions  representatives  from  the 
Pennsylvania  Slate  University's  Capitol 
Campus  will  be  here  Wednesday  to  talk 
with  any  students  interested  in  trans- 
ferring to  a  four-year  program. 

The  Capitol  Campus  is  in  Middletown. 
near  Harrisburg, 

Programs  offered  include  business,  ed- 
ucation, liberal  arts,  electronics 
technology,  building  construction  technol- 
ogy, and  civil  technology. 

The  representatives  will  be  located 
outside  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
cafeteria  between  10  a  m  and  3  p.m. 


'^Guess  the  day"  contest 
announced  by  WWAS 

A  "Name  the  Day"  contest  has  been  an- 
nounced by  Jeffrey  I.  Bauman.  promotion 
director  of  WWAS,  the  college  radio  sta- 
tion, 

Bauman.  a  second  year  broadcasting 
student,  said  the  objective  of  the  contest  is 
to  pick  the  exact  day  the  station  goes  FM. 

"We  will  be  going  FM  before  the  end  of 
this  semester"  said  Bauman.  providing 
the  only  clue  to  the  day. 

The  station  will  be  located  at  88,1  on  the 
FM  dial  when  broadcasting  begins.  The 
station  now  is  a  closed-circuit,  on-campus 
one.  according  to  Bauman. 

Students  interested  in  entering  the 
contest  are  requested  to  write  their  guess 
on  a  piece  of  paper,  date  the  entry,  and  put 
it  in  the  box  located  in  the  broadcasting 
facility,  in  Room  138.  Unit  6,  said  Bauman, 

Deadline  for  entries  is  Friday.  Oct.  12, 
according  to  Bauman 

The  earliest  correct  entry  will  receive 
several  promotional  albums,  he  said, 

Representative  here 
front  Roche.sler  ?(h(><»l 

Dr.  John  Stratton.  a  representative  from 
the  Rochester  Institute  of  Technology,  will 
be  on  campus  tomorrow  to  talk  with  elec- 
tronics technology,  electrical  technology, 
and  civil  technology  students  about  trans- 
ferring to  RIT. 

Dr,  Stratton  will  speak  to  clas_ses  in  the 
morning  and  will  be  available  to  talk  to  in- 
dividual students  from  1  to  3  p.m.  outside 
of  the  cafeteria  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Religious  cuUs  subject 
of  Tuesday  night  course 

The  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  is  offering 
a  five-week  course  on  cult  rehgions.  ac- 
cording to  James  V,  PhiUips.  a  member  of 
the  club 

Phillips  will  present  the  course  using  the 
book.  "Know  the  Marks  of  Cults, " 

The  course  started  Sept.  25  and  will  be 
held  every  Tuesday  night  in  Room  6. 
Klump  Academic  Center. 


Joel    I>.    Bell,    an   aviation   tech   student   fr 
udjustmenl  on  an  M23  helicopter  at  the  airport  c 


Hummelstown.   makes 
pus  hangar. 


Page  2 


Whodd'yo  soy 

Wi fh  the  recent  problerm 
with  commercial  aircraft,  do 
you  still  have  os  much  faith  in 
airliners  ? 


This  week's  question  was  asked 
at  the  airport  by  Jan  L.  Daniel 
and  Larry  G.  Steele. 


Joel    D.    Bell.    o(    Hummelslown:  Roman  A,  Melnyk,  of  York:  "As  for 

"Yes.  Look  ot  the  outomotive  Indus-  as  I'm  concerned,  the  chance  of  occi- 

try.    It   can't   compare.    It's    just   that  dent  is  less.  It's  no  more  dangerous 

more  publicity  makes  it  look  bad."  now.  They're  just  finding  the  things 


n   R.   Colledge.    of   Horrisburg: 
I  hove  to.  It's  my  job." 


Greg  R.  Allison,  of  Loyolsock:  'I  do, 

myself." 


VIEWPOINT 

From  My  Desk 

From  My  Desk  is  written  by  staff  members  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  who  wish  to 
comment  on  subjects  of  itdividual  interest  Opinions  expressed  may  or  may  not 
reflerl  the  opinion  of  Tli,;  SPOTLIGHT 

Auditorium  needs  repair 

ByChr/stinoN   Weib/ey 
Stoff  Writer 

The  appeoronce  of  the  college  ouditorium  prompts  o  lot  of  questions 
to  be  asked  about  the  interests  of  the  college  board  and  the  students. 

The  ouditorium  is  the  first  place  seen  during  orientotion  —  by  new 
students  from  around  the  various  stotes. 

It  is  also  used  for  movies,  concerts,  ploys,  and  for  meetings  of 
different  organizations  within  the  college. 

Don't  you  think  it  is  time  for  both  the  students  and  the  college  to 
take  interest  in  its  appearance  and  upkeep? 

The  ouditorium  is  presently  in  need  of  various  repairs.  The  stage 
floor  and  the  seats  could  be  repaired  at  o  low  cost  to  the  college:  while 
the  electrical  fixtures  and  lights  could  be  looked  over  by  students. 
Considerate  students  ol  the  college  should  help  with  the  repoirs 
during  their  free  time  at  the  college. 

For  the  productions  themselves:  we  need  more  people  with  natural 
talent  to  get  interested  in  the  shows. 

Those  with  instrumental  ability  and  those  with  musical  ability  should 
hove  o  desire  to  present  themselves  to  on  audience. 

The  shows  relate  the  beauty  of  the  performer  as  well  as  the 
auditorium. 

So  take  some  interest  in  the  focal  point  of  your  cultural  learning 
place. 


Book 


review 


Eclairs  a  killer 


9 

The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  yeor. 

except  for  officio/  college  vocolions.  by  journalism 

and  other  Interested  students   Office 

Room  7.  Kfump  Academic  Center  fbosementj   Telephone  (7i7J 

326-3761.  Extension  221 

Member.  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

AAanogIng  Editor Mo/lle  S    Tomllnson 

Campus  Edilor  Jon  t  Daniel 

AssDCiote  Compus  Editor John  f  Ze/ew/ci 

Sports  Edilor Jocqueline  J   Cardene 

Ptioiogropliy  Edilor Dwighl  f   Schnyuck 

Senior  Stolt  Reporter grod  E   Engliiii 

fteponers:  Itoberf  J  Allen.  Donna  I  GInier.  Thereso  J  MocKeniie.  John  L  fiiciterf, 
Brian  M  (tlppey.  Trudy  M  Si\lvely.  Cindy  M  Snook.  Kimberly  A  Steele,  lorry  G  Steele, 
Robert  E   Thomos,  Chrlstino  N   Weibley 

Slott  Artist (Michael  leklles 

Conlriboling  Reporter Goll  M   Thompson 

Stolt  Assistonl rimolhy  A    Tolh 

Prodvchon  feom  This  Issue   Dwrghl  E   Schmucli.  supervisor.  Chrrsl.no  N   Weibley,  Jock 
....f.'.^,'*.?.^':.*-l?f^l'.'^?°°'*■  ?".*^  Tfiereso MocKeniie. 

:-:x-::::-:-:x::v»xS-::»f;»:S:x^^^^ 


By  IMollie  Tomlinson 
Staff  Writer 

"The  Case  of  the  Poisoned  Eclairs  "  is  the  third  in  E.  V.  Cunningham's 
series  of  mysteries  starring  the  detective  Masao  Masuto. 

Mosuto  has  some  of  the  qualities  of  classical  detectives  like 
Sherlock  Holmes  and  C.  Auguste  Dupin.  He,  like  them,  is  clearly  of 
high  intelligence,  slightly  eccentric,  of  a  logical  mind  ond  inclined  to 
view  his  criminal  adversary  as  onother  player  in  o  very  dangerous 
gome. 

However,  Masuto  also  shares  o  lot  with  Sam  Spade.  He  is  often 
unsure  of  the  next  move  of  his  adversary  ond  is  inclined  to  trust  his 
intuition  as  much  as  his  logic,  even  when  it  hurts  his  ego. 

Mosuto's  characteristics  blend  into  on  agreeable,  likeable  charocter 
designed  to  catch  the  reader's  sympothies.  Although  he  is  very  intelli- 
gent, he  is  still  humanly  at  the  mercy  of  o  course  of  events  beyond  his 
control.  His  wry  wit  lightens  up  what  might  otherwise  be  a  grim  inves- 
tigation. 

Cunningham  uses  Masuto  and  the  crime  he  investigates  to  moke  his 
own  grim  investigation  of  wealth  and  divorce  in  America.  The 
detective's  good  marriage  is  contrasted  to  the  horrendous  failures  in 
the  lives  of  four  women  threatened  by  o  psychotic  killer. 

The  book  is  fast-paced,  well  written  and  gives  the  reader  o  fair  run 
ot  beating  Masuto  to  the  solution  to  the  crime. 

Student  involvement 
in  housinfj;  fjroups  needed 
Do  you  want  to  serve  on  one  of  these  committees? 
-Student  Committee  on  Housing 
-Landlord  Committee  on  Housing 
-Student/landlord  Committee  on  Housing 
If  so,  or  if  additional  information  is  needed,  contact  Mrs.  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  Room  126,  Klump  Academic  Center,  phone 
326-3761,  extension  269. 


WORLD  OF  WORK 

Divine  Providence  Hospilol,  1201  Grampian  Blvd.,  needs  service 
aides  in  Janitorial  ond  Dietary  Departments.  Hours  ore  flexible  in 
order  to  meet  students  schedule,  20-25  hours  per  week.  Go  to 
Personnel  Office  at  the  hospital  for  opplication  and  particulars. 

Part-time  nurses  oide,  weekends,  first  and  second  shifts.  Lysock 
View  Nursing  Home,  R.D.  2  (Worrensville  Rd.),  Montoursville.  Pa. 
Apply  court  house.  West  Third  Street,  personnel  office. 

Kitchen  help  needed  at  Sycamore  Nursing  Home,  1445  Sycamore 
F)d  ,  Montoursville.  Hours:  4  to  7:30  p.m.,  6  a.m.  to  2  p.m.,  7  p.m.  to  3 
o  m.  or  1 1  p.m.  to  7  o.m.  Phone  Bill  Assad,  Dietary  Dept.  325-2037. 

Customer  Relations  person  needed  to  follow-up  and  distribute 
moteriol.  Will  train,  mole  or  female.  Phone  R.  J  Timlin  326-6519, 
Gensemck  s  Food  Service.  460  Market  Street,  Room  208. 

Waitress  needed  at  Gentlemen  111,  750  West  Fourth  Street.  Apply 
in  person  after  7  p.m 

K-Mart.  Loyol  Plaza,  needs  3  part-time  stock  clerks,  four  doys  o 
week  5:30-9:30  p.m.  Some  Saturday  work.  Apply  K-Mort  personnel 
office,  ask  for  Potty,  10  a.m.  to  5  p.m. 

Lerner's  Shop,  LycomingMall.i,  needs  custodian.  9  a.m.  to  1  p.m.,  20 
hours  per  week,  $2,90  per  hour.  Contact  Mrs.  Werts  at  shop. 


Student  nurses  meeting 
slated  for  noon.  Oct.  1 

The  Student  Nurses  Organization  of 
WACC  (SNOW'i  has  set  its  second  meeting 
for  Oct.  1  in  Room  403  at  noon.  They  will 
discuss  plans  for  a  Christmas  party  at 
Lysock. 

There  is  a  bake  sale  tentatively  set  for 
Oct.  8.  Also,  a  coffeepot  has  been  placed  in 
the  kitchen  for  the  use  of  the  student 
nurses, 

SNOW  will  hold  elections  for  represent- 
atives in  February.  They  also  plan  on  hav- 
ing a  speaker  for  the  public  in  February. 

SME  holds  meeting, 
new  officers  elected 

A  meeting  of  the  Students  of  Manufac- 
turing and  Engineering  (SME)  was  held 
on  Sept.  13  Regular  meetings  of  the  SME 
are  scheduled  every  Thursday  morning  at 
11:30  in  room  120  of  Unit  6. 

During  the  meeting  on  the  13th,  officers 
were  elected.  They  are :  RonaldJ  Fitzpat- 
rick,  president,  Terry  L.  Stouffer.  vice 
president;  and  Miss  Crystal  A.  Shaffer, 
secretary/treasurer. 

A  calendar  of  events  was  also  adopted  at 
the  meeting,  which  includes  a  field  trip  to 
GTE  in  Towanda  on  Oct.  8 

As  a  means  of  making  money,  the  club 
has  decided  to  sell  hoagies,  starting  Sept. 
18;  and  has  appointed  a  committee  to  in- 
vestigate the  possibility  of  having  a  Gong 
Show 

Five  members  have  tjeen  reinstated 
from  the  1978-79  school  term,  and  23  new 
members  have  been  recruited  into  SME, 
said  advisor  Chalmer  C.  VanHorn. 

The  largest  antique  ever  sold  was  the 
London  Bridge,  in  1968  by  Ivan  F.  Luckin, 
of  the  Court  of  Common  Council.  The  sale 
was  made  by  the  Corporation  of  London  to 
the  McCuUoch  Oil  Corporation  of  Los 
Angeles,  California,  for  $2,460,000. 


PBL  picnic 
successful 

The  sixth  annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda  pic- 
nic was  held  on  Wednesday,  September  19. 
at  the  home  of  Paul  W.  Goldfeder.  advisor. 

In  attendance  were:  Dr.  William  H.  Fed- 
dersen,  Dr.  Edmond  Walters  III,  Dr  Don 
B.  Bergerstock,  Dr,  Shirley  Van  Marter, 
dean  of  Lycoming  College,  Dorothy  S, 
Shultz.  former  dean  of  admissions  and 
faculty  member,  Bruce  A,  Boncal.  PBL 
state  president,  Janice  Kiel,  PBL  state 
alumni  president,  members  of  the 
business  and  computer  science  faculty  and 
the  members  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda. 

Dinner  was  served  at  5  pm.  by  the  club 
officers.  After  dinner  those  in  attendance 
played  volleyball,  badminton,  and  Softball. 
The  rest  of  the  evening  was  devoted  to 
socializing  and  getting  acquainted  with  the 
new  members. 

According  to  PBL  president  Andy  W. 
Wentz.  "The  picnic  was  immensely  suc- 
cessful." 

Little  interest  is  shown 
in  women^s  tennis:  Specht 

Little  interest  has  been  shown  in  an  at- 
tempt to  initiate  a  women's  tennis  team  for 
this  fall,  according  to  Harry  C.  Specht. 
tennis  instructor. 

Specht  said  that  no  one  had  shown  up  at 
the  first  meeting  called  to  organize  a  team, 
but  in  a  second  attempt,  a  few  girls  went  to 
the  gym  and  signed  up. 

More  girls  are  needed  if  the  team  is  to 
play  any  intercollegiate  matches  this  fall, 
Specht  stated.  So  far,  no  matches  have 
been  scheduled  and  the  only  thing  that  is 
concrete  is  a  tournament  in  late  October. 

Specht  added  that  it  is  not  too  late  to  sign 
up  for  the  tennis  team.  Any  girl  interested 
should  see  Specht  during  his  office  hours  — 
which  are  posted  outside  his  office  on 
second  floor  of  Bardo  Gym. 


Oct  1.  1979 

PBL  float  takes  shape, 
;  float  entered  in  parade 

Construction  of  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
float  began  on  Monday,  Sept.  24  at  6  p.m. 
Work  will  continue  at  the  construction  site 
(at  the  end  of  Susquehanna  Street)  Mon- 
day through  Thursday  nights  at  six  until 
:  the  night  of  the  mummer's  parade.  Oct.  23, 
All  Phi  BeU  Lambda  members  are  en- 
:  couraged  to  help  with  this  project,  said 
:  Robin  A.  Hummel.  PBL  reporter.  Those 
;  interested  in  helping  with  construction  or 
costumes  should  stop  in  the  PBL  office  as 
:  soon  as  possible. 

According  to  MissHummel.  dues  and  ap- 
'.  plications  will  be  accepted  in  the  PBL  of- 
::  fice  ( room  333  of  Klump  Academic  Center ) 
;  until  October  12.  If  any  business  or  com- 
;:  puter  science  student  is  interested  in  mem- 
>  bership.  they  are  encouraged  to  sign  up  as 
:i  soon  as  possible,  said  MissHummel. 

:;  Varsity  wrestling  holds 
;  try-outs  on  Wednesday 

There  will  be  a  meeting  this  Wednesday, 
for  all  new  and  returning  students  who  are 
interested  in  trying  out  for  varsity 
wrestling. 

According  to  Harry  C.  Specht.  physical 
education  instructor,  the  meeting  will  be 


heldat4p.r 


1  the  Bardo  Gym. 


Student  ID 
to  carry  photo 

Fifty  rolls  of  film  will  be  purchased  by 
the  Student  Government  Association  for 
student  pictures  —  at  a  cost  of  $190. 

At  the  Student  Government  Association 
I SGA ) ,  meeting,  held  Sept.  25.  it  was  voted 
to  purchase  the  film  to  take  pictures  for 
student  IDs 

Two  days  will  be  set  aside  for  those  stu- 
dents interested  in  having  their  pictures 
taken.  Cost  will  be  $1  for  four  photos. 

Film  not  used  will  be  stored  for  next 
year.  In  other  action.  Charles  R,  Fogle- 
man  was  named  parliamenUrian,  and 
Miss  Sherry  V.  Smith  was  named  secre- 
tary. 

In  other  business,  SGA  voted  to  give 
money  toward  cost  of  a  van  that  will  be 
purchased  by  the  college  for  the  use  of 
SGA,  clubs  and  athletic  and  other  college 
groups. 

It  was  also  voted  to  send  another  repre- 
sentative along  with  Miss  Kimberly  A 
Dincher.  SGA  president,  to  the  conference 
to  be  held  in  Kansas  City.  Mo.  this  Friday 
through  Sunday. 


"Little  Boy"  was  the  name  of  one  of  the 
atomic  bombs  that  was  dropped  on  Hiro- 
shima, Japan. 

A  jellyfish  washed  up  on  the  coast  of 
Massachusetts  in  1865.  The  overall  esti- 
mated size  was  245  feet  in  length. 


SPOTLIGHT  Page  3 

YETP  aids 

potential 

dropouts 

David  L,  Henderson,  one  of  the  counse- 
lors of  the  Youth  Employment  and 
Training  Program  (YETP).  in  Unit  6, 
works  with  potential  high  school  dropouts. 

The  program  teaches  the  students  in  the 
areas  of  communications  skills,  values  in 
business,  and  direct  working  occupations. 
YETP  evaluates  their  interest  levels  and 
their  abilities  of  inventiveness,  Henderson 
said. 

Counselors  Contacted 

Henderson  gets  in  contact  with  the  po- 
tential high  school  dropouts  through  their 
schools  vocational  guidance  counselors. 

During  the  academic  school  year,  the 
students  attend  classes  for  one  day  a  week 
on  the  campus  of  the  College  The  classes 
are  directed  by  two  counselors,  and  take 
place  in  the  YETP  office  in  Unit  6. 

The  number  of  students  going  through 
this  program  vary  from  the  school  year  to 
the  summer  months.  The  regular  attend- 
ence  during  the  school  year  is  20  students. 

The  number  during  the  summer  months 
increases  to  60  students,  and  two  extra 
counselors  are  hired  to  help  instruct  the 
students,  said  Henderson. 

Funds  from  CETA 

All  the  funds  are  made  available  for  this 
program  through  a  22%  budget  cut  from 
the  Comprehensive  Employment  and 
Training  Act. 

The  location  of  the  YETP  was  deter- 
mined due  to  the  central  position  of  the 
College  in  the  districts  of  Lycoming  and 
Clinton  counties,  according  to  Henderson- 
Clementine  A.  Pemon  of  Puis  Clos, 
France,  eight  years  oJd,  gave  birth  io  a 
perfectly  developed  baby.  June  3. 1866. 

Benjamin     Franklin     invented     the 


The  B&M  DINER 

1170  W.  4th  St. 

Uniter  New  Management: 
Jim  &  Vivian  Ensinfer 

Op«ii  14  Hevn 

from  7  am  lo  (  p  m  - 

10%  DISCOUNT 

WithWA(XID 

on  all 
SUBS,  PIZZAS, 
OR  DINNERS 


MIKE'S 

Amusement 
Center 

1205  W.  4th  St. 


Open  2)0  11,  Monday 

thru  Friday 
-11  to  11,  Saturday 
-5  to  10,  Sunday 


PINBALL 


POOL  TABLES 


THE  GOLDEN  DRAGON  JUDO  CLUBS 


'  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes 

'  Self-Defense/Ju  Jitsu  Classes 

'  Demonstrations:  Schools,  Clubs,  Etc. 


PHONE  368-3295 


•  Adult  Judo  Classes 
>  Local  Tournaments 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank  Promotions 


Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

Classes  Held  at 
Williamsport, 
Lock  Haven, 
Milton 
YMCA's 


ONE  FREE  LESSON 

The  Golden  Dragon  ludo  Clubs 

This  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  Lesson 

at  Williamsport  YMCA 
on  Mondays.  Wednesdays,  or  Saturdays 


Page  4  SPOTLIGHT 

Student  housing   icontmu^ii fn 


Another  item 
marijuana 


ntioned  was  the  state 
Kovaleski  said, 
according  to  state  law.  anything  over  30 
grams  would  be  considered  possession 
with  intent  to  dehver,  a  misdemeanor  of- 
fense. He  said  anyone  caught  with  under  30 
grams  would  only  be  charged  with  simple 
possesion,  a  summary  offense 

Captains  Kovaleski  and  Rook  also  talked 
about  Big  Red'  Big  Red  is  the  new  dope- 
snifring  dog  the  city  police  have.  They  said 
he  is  specially  trained  to  detect  any  kind  of 
dope 


Another  area  of  concern  was  the 
frequent  parties  held  by  college  students 
These  parties,  according  to  landlords  and 
police,  have  frequently  involved  much  un- 
derage drinking  and  exceedingly  loud  be- 
havior 

Kovaleski  said  there  is  a  city  ordinance 
requiring  landlords  to  make  sure  their 
houses  do  not  become  the  premises  of  un- 
lawful or  questionable  behavior  He  said 
that  a  landlord  could  be  arrested  if  too 
many  parlies  resulting  in  arrests  or  com- 
plaints were  held  m  a  rental  house 


Kovaleski  and  Rook  said  the  dog  IS  as  yet  The  police  again  emphasized  the  possi- 

untested.  but  it  would  not  be  long  before  bility  of  arrests  being  made  because  of 

everyone   would   know   and   respect    the  these  parties  and  the  landlords  responsi- 

animal's  capabilities  bility  of  running  orderly  houses 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

.MOVIE 

■The  (Joodbve  Girl'    and     Flash  Gordon'  serial.  Chapter  4.  7  :iO  tonight. 
Klump  Acadernic  Center  Auditorium.  $1  with  student  ID 
MEETINGS 

Wednesday.  Advisory  Council,  3-4  pm  ,  Rooin  207.  Klump  Academic  Center 

FALL  EVENT 
Fall  Event  will  take  place  from  tomorrow,  until  Thursday  Students  with  ID 
are  free  from  fees  to  all  events. 

CONFERENCE 
Tomorrow,  Student  Leadership.  7-9  p.m 

FIELD  HOCKEY 
Tomorrow,  Bucks  CCC,  home,  4pm 
Friday.  Northampton  CCC.  Away.  4  p.m 

GOLF 
Tomorrow,  Bucks  CCC.  Away,  2pm 

SWIMMING 
Thursdav,  YWCA,  first  20  persons,  7-8  p  m  .  free 

CROSSCOUNTRY 
Saturday,  Delaware  CCC,  home.  12:30pm 


V 


Discount  Rates  for  College  Students 

as  low  as  $3.00  pec  week 

lor  a  year's  membcrsliip 

Also  weeMy,  4-weeli,  S-fnonth, 

afirl  6montti  membersliips 

Complete  Weight  Training  Facilities 

Sauna  •  Showers  •  Lockers 

Food  Supplements 

Hours  l^lnnriay  ftttljy  1?  JOroH  jO 

Sarurday  j  i  on  ru  4  01) 
607  Hepburn  St.  Phone  322  4065 

Wiliismsiwrl,  Pa, 

Wiiriiii  Walktna  Durance  nr  rhe  CollPKr" 


A  chicken  owned  by  James  Cook.  New 
Bedford.  Mass  ,  laid  a  perfectly  square 
egg 

A  letter  addressed  to  "GOD  '  was  for- 
warded from  Liptou,  Germany,  in  1926  It 
was  returned  to  the  sender  marked  "ad- 


The  word  TIP  comes  from  the  initals  of 
the  words  "To  Insure  Promptness  " 

In  the  center  of  the  village  Vertid  be- 
tween San  Salvador  and  Guatemala,  there 
is  a  fountain  named  "Mina  de  Sanger", 
which  ejects  a  red  liquid  that  coagulates 
like  blood. 


l^illo's 
*     College 
Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 


Open  for  Breakfast:  7 


I    Wrp^Aj 


fast  Served  lit  Kh.ill  a.m. 


Hours:  7  a.m 


Tonight 
7:30  p.m. 

Klump 

Academic 
Center 

U.OO 


"ONE  OF  THE  BEST 
PICTURES  OF  THE  YEAR." 

TIME  MAGAZINE 

"'The  Goodbye  Girl' 
is  a  joyous  comedy  — 
just  what  the  doctor  ordered. 
Neil  Simon  makes 
feeling  good  legal...' 

GENEbHALir  NBC-TV 


cooDtai 

CIRC 


\  RAY  STARK  PRODUCTION  OF  A  HERRfcRT  ROSS  HI  M 


■THE  GOODBYE  GIRL- 
RICHARD  DREYFUSS  ■  MARSHA  MASON 

and  inrnKiix,r«j  QUINN  CUMMINGS  a.  |j„  v 

Wnnon  bv  NFIL  SIMON  •  Pmdutrd  bv  RAY  STARK 

r>rnl  hv  HERBERT  ROSS  •  Musk  Scored  aiid  Aiipled  bv  CWE  GRUSIN 

Song  -axxtw  GiH"  Wnttcn  and  ftrfcrnvd  by  CttVID  GATES 

,.  RASTAR  rv,.rui,.  •  Pnnis  bu  MGM  Labs 

jMaM^t.MluOMB!nD«»    =   '    --   — — —  i^tl 

.^j... ,^ .~,^^ 


Next  Week: 
The  Boys  in 
Company  C 

nmwMnvmMMM 

In 
Two  Weeks: 

The 
Buddy    Holly 

Story 


It's  National  Newspaper  Week 

Newspapers  inform,  educate,  entertain  I 

(I  /)(;(  uoiild  life  he  like  ii  iiIkhiI  iieii^jxipeisy 


ENERGY. 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 


(  THE  WILUAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


ei^BVIllJEGJU 


J  v_ 


(^  Monday,  Oct.  8,1979         Vol.  15,  No.  6  8  Pages      ~) 


'Your  Own  Bag' 
series  begins 
this  Friday 

The  first  of  the  "Your  Own  Bag"  series 
will  be  held  this  Friday  at  noon  in  the 
cafeteria. 

The  informal  lunch-time  sessions 
feature  area  persons  who  are  interested  in 
various  aspects  of  journalism. 
The  featured  speaker  Friday  will  be  John 
Boylan,  writer  and  publisher  of  "An  Inside 
Guide  to  Lewisburg  and  the  Woods  and 
Fields  that  Surround  It." 

Boylan's  planned  topic  for  the  session  is 
solar  technology. 

Five  persons 
'get  lucky' 
in  PBL  raffle 

The  Phi  Bela  Lambda  (PBL)  raffle  was 
held  Friday,  Sept.  28,  in  Room  333.  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Miss  Patricia  J.  Shoff  drew  five  names. 

The  winners  are:  Kay  Steward.  10-speed 
AMF  bicycle;  Joanne  Davis,  black  and 
white  Boshel  television;  Anntoinette  Nori- 
elli.  Sharp  calculator;  Reese  F,  Dibble, 
dinner  for  two  at  the  Ramada  Inn;  Bill 
Ward.  Best  Western  Arena,  dinner  for  two, 

A  PBL  meeting  was  held  Wednesday. 
Sept.  26,  and  PBL  president  Andy  W. 
Wentz  said  it  was  a  well-attended  meeting 
despite  the  Bloomsburg  Fair. 

There  was  a  slide  show  of  the  upcoming 

regional  conference  and  the  club's  trip  to 

fPfcasp  turn  In  l'a)te  81 


Gym  team  here 
I  on  Wednesday 

The  Danish  Gymnastic  Team  will 
perform  at  the  college's  Bardo  Gym 
this  Wednesday  at  8  p.  m . 

The  event  is  free  to  all  WACC  stu- 
dents. Tickets  for  other  students  are 

^^  $2  Non-student  tickets  are  $3. 

^  Tickets  are  available  at  the  Com- 
munications Center  in  Klump 
Academic  Center  or  by  contacting 
Mrs.    Jo    Ann    Fremiotti,    student 

M  activities  assistant  at  Extension  269. 


African  leaders  visit 
College  to  trade  ideas 


By  Trudy  Shively 
Staff  Writer 

Fourteen  African  leaders  are  scheduled 
to  visit  the  college  tomorrow  through  Sat- 
urday, according  to  Dr.  Edmond  A.  Wal- 
ters 3rd,  co-ordinator  of  the  program  and 
dean,   postsecondary   instructional   serv- 

The  purpose  of  the  visit  is  to  learn  about 
educational  programs  and  to  study  the 

career  development  and  teachers  trdining 


programs,  the  dean  said. 

The  program  is  a  "genuine  exchange"  in 
that  African  and  American  colleagues  are 
given  an  opportunity  to  discuss  ideas,  tech- 
niques and  mutual  problems,  he  added 

Africans  from  all  over  the  continent  also 
have  a  chance  to  benefit  from  each  other's 
experience  in  dealing  with  developmental 
issues,  the  dean  commented, 

American  professionals  learn  what  their 
African  counterparts  are  doing  and  can 


ll-lr. 


fW 


NRPS  held  the 
apt  attention  of 
crowd    last 


Wednesday    night 
with  their  ^ 
of  country-i 


Students  plan 
meals  for  two 
visiting  groups 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  iFHl  Associa- 
tion will  prepare  meals  for  two  mterna- 
tional  organizations  visiting  the  campus 
this  week. 

Mrs-  Vivian  P.  Moon,  club  advisor,  said 
the  group  will  serve  the  Danish  Gym  Team 
and  visiting  educators  from  Africa  in 
Room  105.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

On  Wednesday,  the  FH  will  serve  the 
Danish  Gym  Team  a  Pennsylvania  Dutch 
meal  consisting  of  sauerbraten.  duchess 
potatoes,  corn  pudding,  endive  salad  with 
hot  bacon  dressing,  and  warm  apple 
dumplings  for  dessert. 

A  traditional  French  cuisine  featuring 
chicken  breast  supreme  will  be  served  to 
the  African  educators,  according  to  Mrs. 
Moon.  The  meal  is  tentatively  set  for  Fri- 
day 


Strike  force  formed    to  fight  old  problems 


By  Mollie  Zeleivic? 
Staff  Writer 

Speculation  among  students  is  high  here 
as  to  the  raison  d'etre  for  the  city's  new 
strike  force.  A  number  of  students  were 
arrested  in  the  recent  crackdown  by  the 
strike  force  in  one  of  the  city's  high-crime 

Strike  Force  Formed 

John  M.  McDermott.  city  public  safety 
director,  said  there  is  no  bookkeeping  sys- 
tem which  allows  him  to  see  exactly  how 
many  of  the  nearly  200  arrests  made  were 
WACC  students.  He  did  say  he  felt  it  was  a 
small  number  of  the  total. 

Capt.  Matthew  M  Rook,  of  the  city 
police,  said  the  formation  of  the  strike 
force  is  a  new  way  to  deal  with  an  old  prob- 


Jwn.  and  merely  coincided  with  the  open- 
ing of  the  fall  semester. 

Continuing  problem 

"It  (the  strike  force)  came  at  the  right 
time  —  1  don't  think  we  would  need  a  strike 
force  for  WACC  students."  Rook  said  He 
added  that  he  felt  the  number  of  students 
who  created  a  problem  was  "a  very  small 
percentage  of  WACC  students  " 

However,  there  has  been  a  problem  year 

i\exl  iveek:  Dr.  Davul  M. 
Heiney.  ilean  of  student  and 
career  development,  comments 
on  the  problems  encountered 
with  underage  drinking. 


after  year  with  several  student  houses  and 
the  police  are  cognizant  of  these  few 
trouble  spots- 

"Of  all  the  houses,  there  are  three  we're 

aware  of  and  we'll  be  watching  them  from 

time  to  time.  "  Rook  said.  "Three  out  of  all 

of  them  is  a  very  low  percent, " 

Use  Common  Sense 

Capt.  Rook  said  he  felt  the  main  problem 
with  these  houses  was  the  lack  of  adequate 
supervision.  When  a  police  car  goes  by.  the 
officers  will  take  note  of  loud  music  or  dis- 
turbances around  these  locations,  he  said. 

"Use  some  good  common  sense,  keep 
the  noise  down,  have  the  parties  super- 
vised by  older  kids."  Capt.  Rook  advised. 
iPlease  turn  to  Pope  31 


Page  2 


Whadd'yo  soy  ... 

What  do  you  fhink  of  women  entering  the  field 


VIEWPOINT 


of  deisel  mechanics  ? 


By  Dwighi  Schmuck  and  Cindy  Snook 
of  The  SPOTLIGHT  stall 


Wayne  C.  Brelsford.  diesel 
mechanics,  from  Wilkes-Borre:  "Well. 
we  had  one  lost  year  but  she  didn't 
lost  very  long.  They  shouldn't  be 
allowed  in  it." 

Editoriol 


Terry  L.  Kreger,  diesel  mechanics 
from  Liberty:  "H's  a  good  field  for  any 
one  to  get  into  —  women  or  men." 


qualified 
wouldn't  I 


Brady,    diesel    mecfianic 
nsburg.       If     they    were 

it     wouldn't     matter, 
.ind.- 


bert  B.  Ulcn.  diesel  mechanics, 
Towondo:  "It's  oil  right  with  me 
if  they  can  handle  it.  As  long  as  they 
aren't  dressing  to  attract  you  away 
from  your  work.  If  they're  there  to 
work,  that's  all  right.  " 


Apathy  is  here! 

The  activities  offered  on  this  campus  ore  varied  and  interesting. 

There  are  clubs  and  fraternities  that  foster  skills  to  augment  or 
broaden  academic  programs  such  os  the  Society  of  Manufacturing 
Engineers,  Phi  Beta  Lambda  ond  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau. 

There  ore  clubs  thai  provide  recreolionol  diversion  like  the  Cinema 
Club  ond  Outing  Club.  There  ore  octivities  that  offer  a  chance  to  reiax 
and  have  fun,  like  the  recently  offered  square-dance  and  coffeehouse 
events. 

The  Student  Government  Associotion  provides  o  way  for  students  to 
speak  to  the  administration  and  the  world  at  large. 

But  student  attendance  at,  or  participotion  in.  these  vital  activities 
has  been  dropping  here.  The  college  will  endure  without  actively 
involved  students.  The  world  will  survive  without  hearing  students 
viewpoints.  Students  moy  exist  without  social  interaction  with  their 
peers. 

However,  without  this  involvement  a  deficit  in  their  educational 
experience  will  be  apparent  to  prospective  employers. 

A  lock  of  interest,  involvement,  hurts  individuals. 

This  college  campus  is  a  microcosm  of  the  "real  world.  '  What  is 
leorned  and  experienced  here  shapes  the  citizen,  the  worker,  in  the 
real  world.  Ignoring  what  goes  on  here  could  become  a  lifetime  habit 
of  apathy. 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

FirstPloce  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  year, 

except  for  officiol  college  vocotions.  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students   Office 

Room  7.  K/umpAcodemic  Center  fbosement)   Telephone  (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221 

Member.  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

Manoging  Editor Mollie  Zelewic 

Campus  Editor  j^„  ^   0„„,j 

Associale  Compus  Editor j„hn  f  Zele»,c 


Television  review 


Show  still  success 

By  Trudy  M.Shively 
Staff  Writer 

"Saturday  Night  Live ',  seen  on  NBC  every  Saturday  at  1 1:30  p.m.,  is 
one  of  the  greatest  comedy  shows  of  todoy.  It  is  just  as  its  title  depicts, 
a  live  show  broadcasting  for  New  York  City. 

It  is  primarily  a  satirical  comedy  show  in  which  its  "Not  Ready  for 
Prime  Time'  players  mimic  well  known  personalities  as  well  as 
politicions  in  the  world  of  news. 

The  "ployers"  include  Gildo  Radner,  Loraine  Newmon,  Jane  Curtin, 
Garret  Morris,  Bill  Murray.  Dan  Aykroyd,  and  lost  but  not  leost,  John 
Belushi. 

Individuolly,  the  cast  is  well-known  for  specific  characters  they 
portray  each  week. 

Radner  is  thoroughly  loved  as  Raseann  Roseonnadanno,  the  kinky 
haired  "Dear  Abby"  in  "Weekend  Update".  Of  them  all,  Radner  is  a 
fovorite  by  majority. 

Newman  is  excellent  in  the  "Child  Psychiatrist"  role,  in  which  she 
immitotes  a  "child'  psychiatrist  whose  patients  include  children  of  the 
Hollywood  celebrities. 

"Mrs.  Lupner  '  is  offectionotely  portrayed  by  Curtin.  A  naive,  single 
parent  trying  to  raise  her  daughter  by  today's  sad  standards. 

Morris  is  best  appreciated  for  his  female  impersonotions.  The  most 
popular  is  his  sensational  impersonation  of  singer  Tino  Turner  where 
during  the  first  few  minutes  it's  hard  to  distinguish  Morris  from  the 
real  Turner. 

An  egocentric  nightclub  entertainer,  the  star  gossip  columnist  and 
sweet,  but  clumsy  Todd  are  just  a  few  of  the  weekly  favorites  played 
by   Murray.    Fortunately  Murray   is   Hexible  enough   to   support  any 


char. 


'ith( 


Sports  Edit 


Cardene 


Phologropliy  Editor 0^^,^^,  j    jj^^ 

Senior  Stolt  Reporter 8,„j  £   E^gli^^ 

Reporters  Robert  J  Allen.  Donno  1  G.nler.  Thereso  J  MocKenire.  John  L  Rlckerl. 
Br/on  M  Rrppey.  leii.e  M  Rogers,  Trudy  M  Shiyely.  Cindy  M  Snook.  Kimberly  A 
Steele.  Lorry  G  Steele.  Robert  E    thomos.  Clirlstino  N  Weibley 

Stall  Artists Michoel  lek/les 

Contributing  Reporter GoilM   Thompson 

StoH  Assistant r  ™   .k    a    t  .l 

■ Iimolhy  A   Toth 

Production  team  this  Issue:  Uollle  Zelewicj,  supervisor;  Robert  J.  Allen,  Brion  M 
Rippey,  Leslie  M.  Rogers,  lorry  O.  Steele. 


Aykroyd  is  another  gifted  with  talents  for  impersonation.  Along 
with  his  "broodsmiling"  mimic  of  President  Jimmy  Carter,  Aykroyd 
also  does  on  incomparable  Julio  Child,  the  world  renowned  French 
chef. 

The  last  of  the  group  is  Belushi.  who  is  most  famous  for  his  "Samurai 
Night  Fever'  skit,  in  which  he  ploys  o  Somuroi  Warrior.  The  fact  that 
he  speaks  no  English  ond  his  stronge  costume  ore  enough  to  moke 
onyone  roor. 

"Soturdoy  Night  Live"  is  o  group  of  individual  personalities,  who 
when  blended  together,  create  o  vertioble  smorgasbord  of  comedy. 
Watching  these  multi-talented  actresses  and  actors  brings  one  to  the 
realization  that  they  may  well  be  called  the  "Now  Reody  for  Time 
Prime  Players". 

(Note:  Don  Aykroyd  and  John  Belushi  officially  announced  their  retire- 
ment from  the  show  Monday.  Sept.  17  They  will  no  longer  be  with  the 
cost  which  begins  the  new  season  Oct.  13.  The  two  will  instead  be 
filming  their  new  movie  together  entitled    The  Blues  Brothers."  Catch 


"/.'  I.: 


Pages 


m 


Music  review 


p»€U  iii/£iii  iir 

;■!»  ^  II  II «'  ^  III  ii  n  JB 


Feeling  is  changing 

By  Leslie  Rogers 
StoH  Writer 

The  "me"  feeling  that  has  swept  the  nation  in  the  past  lew  yeors 
was  predicted  bock  in  the  60's  by  the  music  in  our  country.  The  moin 
theme  of  the  music  was  "Come  on,  forget  about  your  friends  and 
family  and  fiove  o  good  time.  " 

In  foct,  the  music  sometimes  urged  people  to  even  forget  obout 
themselves  —  their  values  as  well  as  their  physical  and  emotional 
heolth. 

This  theme  has  —  ever  so  slightly  —  begun  to  change.  With  the  re- 
cession and  the  disillusionment  with  government,  people  have  real- 
ized that  we  only  have  ourselves. 

The  music  is  leaning  towards  the  expression  of  emotions,  such  os 
love  and  friendship.  Values  ore  making  a  comeback. 

The  "me"  generation   is  slowly  giving  way  to   the     you  and   me" 
generation,  and  this  is  being  reflected  in  todoy  s  music. 
Billy  Joel  preaches  reality 

One  of  the  biggest  solo  artists  today,  Billy  Joel,  has  mode  "mellow' 
his  trademork.  His  message  comes  through  cleoriy:  Be  honest  with 
yourself  and  others.  In  other  words,  he  preaches  reality. 

The  title  song  on  one  of  his  recent  albums,  "Strangers",  illustrates 
this  feeling.  Joel  sings  about  people  who  wear  "masks  '  constantly, 
and  never  get  to  know  one  another  as  they  really  are.  It  is  a  song  of 
pity  and  sadness.  It  illustrotes  clearly  the  change  of  music  themes 
from  selfishness  to  reality. 

Sings  of  honesty 

Joel  also  sings  of  honesty  in  a  relbtionship  in  his  big  hit,  '"Just  the 
Woy  You  Are."  The  message  in  this  song  is  that  friendship  ond  honesty 
are  more  important  in  a  relationship  than  beauty  or  brains.  Joel  urges 
the  girl  not  to  change;  he  just  wonts  "someone  I  con  talk  to." 

This  theme,  honesty,  is  also  used  in  his  recent  hit,  named  ap- 
propriately, 'Honesty."  He  complains  obout  how  hard  it  is  to  find 
honesty  in  this  world  and  about  how  much  he  longs  for  this  honesty. 

It  is  obvious  from  the  music  sung  by  many  popular  artists  today  — 
not  just  Billy  Joel  —  that  the  "me"  music  is  losing  ground. 

Reality  is  at  hand. 

Music  review 


AAovie  review 

Latest  Droculo 
is  one  we  can  love 

By  Jan  Daniel 
Staff  Writer 
For  yeors,   moviegoers  have  been  offered  —   and  sometimes  as- 
saulted witin  many  versions  of  tfie  classic    Droculo    movie. 

We  liove  run  the  gomul  from  the  original  chiller  thol  kept  us  on  the 
edge  of  our  seats  to  some  more  recent  versions  that  made  Dracula 
look  like  on  eccentric  neighbor. 

No  romantic  appeal 
Never  in  all  of  those  versions  hos  the  romantic  appeal  of  the  Tran- 
sylvonian  Count  with  the  neck  fetish  been  ployed  up.  Until  now 

The  latest  attempt,  by  Universal,  managed  to  combine  the  terror  of 
the  older  movies  with  the  element  of  desire  thot  has  always  been 
underplayed, 

Droculo  has  olwoys  allocked  only  the  beoutiful  women  -  but  never 
before  hove  they  liked  it, 

Longella  equals  sensuality 

Universol  must  be  commended  tor  finding  Frank  langello  to  stor  in 

their  movie.  With  the  dork,  erotic  overtones  of  the  movie.  Langello 

blends  perfectly  with  his  dark,   handsome  looks  ond  deep,   sensual 


The 


into  1 


ntoct 

with  him  initially  os  o  Count  who  has 
recently  purchased  o  nearby  property 
-  fall  immediately  under  the  spell  of 
his  compelling  brown  eyes.  They  vie 
for  his  attention  and,  after  looming  of 
his  true  identity,  wait  patiently  in 
their     bedrooms     for     his     nocturnal 


launches  ottock 

Sir  Laurence  Olivier,  proving  his  talent  once  more  is  impressive  as 
the  woeful  fother  of  one  of  the  young  ladies  Droculo  sends  to  the 
world  of  the  undead  Observing  Ihal  the  Counts  image  is  not  reflected 
in  o  mirror,  Olivier  discovers  Droculo  s  identity  and  launches  an  attack 
complete  with  wooden  stokes  ond  silver  bullets. 

Perhaps  the  only  pause  in  excitement  during  the  movie  wos  the 
somewhat  overdone  scene  of  the  consummation  of  Dracula  s  love  tor 
the  daughter  of  the  caretaker  of  the  neorby  insane  asylum.  Bursting 
clouds  and  beautiful  sunsets  don  t  occuroteiy  depict  the  passion  we 
would  expect  from  Longella  s  Droculo 

Hordcore  scienceficlion  fans  may  not  respond  to  this  softer  version 
of  Dracula,  but  those  of  us  who  also  en|oy  the  romantic  side  of  life 
thank  Universal  for  finally  sending  us  o  Droculo  we  can  love! 


Springsteen  is  back! 


The  "boss"  of  rock  is  bock  and  his  retu 
in  some  time    In  short,  his  return  can  be  c 

"Darkness  On  The  Edge  Of  Town  is  m 
To  Run'  but  It  never  the  less  comes  close. 

There  ore  several  tracks  that  ore  right 
if  not  better.  The  one  that  stands  alone 


n  is  one  of  the 
ossified  OS  a  SI 
I  up  to  the  levi 


I  the  level  of  his  previous  Ip 
IS  to  be  "Candy's  Rome",  o 


By  Robert  E.  Thomas 

Stoff  Writer 
,Q,fgj  tune    reminiscent    of    the    Springsteen    classics    of    before    such    as 

Q^g  Rosilito  ,    Born  To  Run   ,  and    Thunder  Rood    to  nome  a  lew 

g^^n  Badlands  '  and    The  Promised  Land    ore  not  for  behind  in  the  race 

for  top  honors  of  "most  listened  to    on  the  album. 

If    you    like    rock    and    roll    of    its    very    best,    Bruce    Springsteens 
Darkness  On  The  Edge  Of  Town'   is  a  must-odd  to  your  record  collec- 


J 


Complaints? 
see  ombudsman 

Thomas  M  McNally  has  announced  ttiat 
students  having  trouble  getting  a  problem 
resolved  or  clarified  should  see  him 
McNally  is  the  college  ombudsman. 

An  ombudsman  i?  omeone  who  helps 
the  ordinary  citizen  or  student  with  com- 
plaints about  the  collei^e  or  helps  to  solve 
the  student  s  problems  through  proper 
channels. 

McNally  h.s  his  olnce  in  Room  205. 
Klump  Acad  mic  r^^nler  His  hours  are  8 
a.m.  to  4  p. ni  .  Mono  ly  llirough  Friday. 


S 


N  THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 


The  worlds  most  n 
oneof  1.148frotatPut> 
M.W.Kellog-:Co. 


chimney  is 
jin,  built  by 


$1,000,000 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       ON  sale 


Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 


I  Footweat  •  Work-Hunting-Hiking 
I  Outerwear  •  VESTS  JACKETS-COATS 
I  JEANS*  You  name  it -We  have  it 
I  Athletic  Footwear 
I  GLOVES  •  Mittens 


325  Market  St. 

OPEN  9  AM    9  PM  Mon.Fri. 

Other  DAYS  9  AM    5:30  PM 


Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 
Alpine 


Page  4 


lis'  rirlil  iKu'kr 


ii'lil  hoikov  Irani  cm  way  lii  liisl  uiii  anil  i<-(i>i'il-liri'akiii|< 

Hockey  team  wins  first  game, 
breaks  last  year's  goal  record 

By  Jackie  Cardenc  The  team  f 

ui^rr  uiriinr  PHfllip  .Iprri  1 


By  Jackie  Cardi 
Slaff  Writer 

A  record  was  broken  when  the  women's 
field  hockey  team  won  its  first  game 
against  Northampton  County  Community 
College,  on  Sept.  25,  The  game  ended  with 
a  score  of  9-1, 

The  record  broken  was  in  number  of 
goals.  Last  year's  team  ended  the  season 
with  a  total  of  five  goals. 

The  record  was  broken  when  Stephanie 
Dean,  center  forward,  Cathy  J.  Leitzel. 
left  inner,  and  team  captain  Janet  M. 
Kreamer,  right  inner,  combined  for  nine 
goals. 

For  the  Wildcats,  the  game  got  off  to  a 
good  start  with  Stephanie  Dean  scoring  in 
the  first  few  minutes  of  play  Six  of  the 
team's  nine  goals  came  early  m  the  first 
half  Rach  half  was  35  minutes. 


Past-breuking  action  was  the  name  of 
the  game  Tuesday  when  the  Wildcat  field 
hockey  team  posted  its  first  win. 


The  team  played  excellent  defense,  with 
Jerri  L.  Womeldorf  saving  four  out 
of  five  of  the  opposing  team's  trys  for  the 
cage.  Northampton's  only  goal  was  made 
by  their  left  wing,  Lora  Paulinsky,  scoring 
late  in  the  first  half. 

According  to  Marti  Bryant,  field  hockey 
coach,  two  new  members  have  joined  the 
team.  They  are  Carolyn  J.  Stavoy.  a 
second  year  general  studies  student  from 
Williamsport,  and  Theresa  Storer.  a 
second  year  (GS)  studentfrom  Lewisburg. 

Friday.  Sept.  28 

The  Wildcats  dropped  their  record  to  M 
when  they  were  defeated  on  the  home  field 
by  Montgomery  County  Community  Col- 
lege Friday.  Sept.  28,  The  score  was  7-1. 
Cathy  J.  Leitzel  scored  the  goal  in  the 
second  half. 

Four  of  Montgomery  County's  players 
combined  to  score  the  seven  winning 
trials. 

Tuesday.  Oct.  2 

The  women's  team  was  also  defeated  by 
Bucks  County  Community  College 
Tuesday.  Oct.  2,  with  the  game  ending  7-1. 
Linda  E.  Whaley.  right  wing,  drove  in  the 
only  goal  early  in  the  contest. 

Coach  Bryant  said  that  she  is  still  confi- 
dent and  very  proud  of  the  team,  and  says 
that  the  members  are  looking  forward  to 
going  on  the  road.  The  remaining  three 
games  are  all  away,  with  the  girls 
traveling  to  Montgomery  County  Com- 
munity College  on  Oct,  5, 


Edward  Everett  Hali 
Unitarian  minister  and 


Basketball 
tryouts  held 

A  meeting  was  held  for  all  those  interest- 
ed in  trying  out  for  boys'  varsity  basket- 
ball in  late  September  in  the  Bardo  Gym, 

The  meeting  was  conducted  by  the  new 
head  coach,  Larry  Manikowski.  and  main- 
ly concerned  pre-season  conditioning, 

Manikowski  suggested  that  ail  candi- 
dates begin  jogging  for  approximately  15 
to2Uminutesdaily  and  using  the  universal 
gym  every  other  day 

The  first  practice  is  tentatively  sched- 
uled for  next  Monday.  Oct.  15,  at  4  p.m.  All 
those  interested  should  report  to  the  gym 
at  that  time,  Manikowski  said. 

Golf  team  ties 
for  second  slot 

The  Wildcats  lost  a  triangular  golf  meet 
at  Montgomery  County  Community  Col- 
lege on  Friday.  Sept.  28. 

The  team  tied  with  Bucks  County  Com- 
munity College  in  first  round  action.  Both 
teams  finished  with  6. 

Montgomery  County  Community  Col- 
lege came  out  on  top  in  the  second  round, 
scoring  5' 2  with  the  Wildcats  scoring  '/j. 

The  Wildcats  have  their  next  match 
today.  They  will  travel  to  Northampton 
County  Community  College. 

Wildcats  cros.s-country 
loses  fjjanies  to  Mansfield 

Mansfield  State  Jayvee's  defeated  the 
Wildcats  in  cross-country  at  Mansfield. 
Saturday.  Sept.  29.  The  score  was  Mans- 
field 16,  Wildcats  43. 

The  next  meet  is  scheduled  for  Wednes- 
day, against  Luzerne  County  Community 
College  The  meet  will  be  home,  at  the 
White  Deer  Golf  Course,  Route  15-South, 
The  meet  is  scheduled  for  4  p.m. 

The  heaviest  smokers  in  the  world  are 
the  people  of  the  U.S.  where  about  600,000 
miUion  cigarets  (an  average  of  2,830  per 
adult)  were  consumed  at  a  cost  of  about 
$13,000,000  000  in  1974 


CS I  plans  two  events 

The   student   chapter   of   Construction 

Specifications  Institute  (CSII  is  selling 
tickets  ior  two  events,  according  to  club 
president  Jean  May. 

On  Wednesday,  Oct.  31  the  group  is  spon- 
soring a  bus  trip  to  Falling  Water,  near 
Pittsburgh.  There  they  will  tour  a  house 
designed  by  Frank  Lloyd  Wright,  which 
has  a  waterfall  under  the  living  room. 

Bus  fare  and  tour  fee  will  be  $12.  The  bus 
will  leave  the  campus  at  8  a.m..  Miss  May 
said,  and  should  return  no  later  than  8p.m. 
There  are  still  about  15  tickets  available. 

The  CSI  also  will  hold  a  Halloween  skat- 
ing party  at  Great  Skate  in  Montoursville 
on  Thursday,  Nov.  1.  Advance  tickets  are 
$1.  The  party  will  be  from  7  p.m.  to  10 p.m. 

Anyone  interested  in  purchasing  a  ticket 
for  either  event  may  stop  in  the  archi- 
tecture lab  or  contact  any  architectural 
student,  Miss  May  said. 

Mrs,  Demko  says:  tell 
senders  of  addresses 

Mrs.  Judy  Demko,  of  the  college  mail 
and  duplicating  services,  suggests  that 
students  now  receiving  their  mail  through 
the  college  mail  room  notify  senders  of 
local  addresses. 


In  photos  above  and  below,  intra- 
mural football  teams.  LaRue's 
Jocks  and  Wild  Bunch,  scrimmage 
in  the  season  opener  on  Tuesday, 
Sept    18    The  Wild  Bunch  won  the 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wascher 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Lane 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


The  Danish 


Gymnastics 

Wednesday^^^ 


Tonight! 

Klump  Academic  Center 

7:30  p.m. 

$1.00 

Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Cinema  Club  Presents: 

"A  madc£„  oallgame  finale  out  of  M-A-S-H." 

'"The  Bo;s  In  Compan;  C  gets  under  yonr  skin  becaose  g|  the  sheer 
power  of  its  snbiect." 

It  wasn't  your  ordinary, 
run-of-the-miii  war. 


^kSmM' 


Next  Week: 
The  Buddy  Holly  Story 

in  Two  Weeks: 
Halloween  Double-Bill  #1 


Hadley  Street  parking  illegal 


The  above  picture  gives  the  appearance 
that  parking  is  legal  on  Hadley  Street  next 
to  Klump  Academic  Center  However,  it  is 
not,  said  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  chief  of 
campus  security 

Smeak  said  Williamsport  police  are 
under  orders  to  ticket  any  cars  parked 
along  Hadley  Street,  He  added,  "The  city 
police  are  very  industrious  when  it  comes 


to  enforcing  the  parking  laws." 

Williamsport  Director  of  Public  Safety 
John  M  McDermott  said  the  police 
"  .  should  be  putting  tickets  on  any  cars 
found  there.  There  is  no  parking  there  at 
all." 

McDermott  said  this  was  due  to  the  po- 
tential need  of  Hadley  Street  as  a  fire  lane. 
He  also  said  tickets  given  there  would  cost 


WORLD  OF  WORK 


l,,„l,„,„ 


•il.    I     /f..M.-,. 
rnlrr.    In,,,,,, 


■,',l,ir.  C.ll,/ 
■.h.nil,!  /„.  „ 


Career  Opportunities 


(For  1980  Graduates  and  Alumni) 

Bradford  Hospital,  116,  Inlerslale  Park,  Bradford,  Pa.  16701,  electrical  tech- 
nician, contact  Ms  Joyce  Kelley,  814-368-4143,  extension  571 

Beecti  Aerospace  Service  Inc.,  P.O.  Box  8122,  Corpus  Christi,  Texas  78412. 
aviation  mechanics  ( A&P  rating! .  contact  Mr.  John  Gearhalt,  512-939-2536 

Stnek  Corp  ,  P  O  Box  158,  Washingtonville.  Pa  17784,  business  secretary 
(executivel.  contact  Mr.  Adam  Zane,  717-437-3141. 

Divine  Providence  Hospital.  1201  Grampian  Blvd  ,  Williamsport  Pa  17701. 
medical  secretary,  contact  Ms.  Patricia  Miller.  326-8515. 

YMCA,  343  W.  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.  electronics  lech,,  contact 
Mr  Allan  Skinner,  323-7134. 

Northe-Central  X-Ray,  R.D.  3,  P  O  Box  9,  Danville,  Pa  17701,  electronics 
tech.,  contact  Mr.  Dan  Koons,  717-275-7713 

Leighton  Industries,  Inc.,  Second  and  Manavon  Avenues,  Phoenixville,  Pa. 
19460.  welding,  contact  mr  Ron  Bernes,  215-933-5832. 

AMSCO  (American  Sterilizer)  Co  .  Erie.  Pa  16512,  Engineering,  contact 
personnel  officer,  814-452-3100. 

Nichols  Machinery  Co  ,  1311  S.  Ervay  St..  Dallas  Texas,  auto  mech..  contact 
Mr  Roberl  Nichols.  214-421-3581. 

Prudential.  South  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.  secretary,  contact  Ms.  Arlene 
Dunlap,  323-3641. 

Bi  Co  Machine  &  Tool.  P  O.  Box  5,  Phillipsburg.  Pa  16866,  Machinist,  contact 
Mr.  Harold  Keller,  814-342-0198. 

Wilhamsport  Area  School  District,  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701,  Auto  tech.. 
contact  Mr  Edward  Blackburn. 

Hub  Surgical,  Williamsport.  Pa.  17701,  LPN.  contact  Mrs.  Kaser.  322-6154 

Temp  porce.  Williamsport,  Pa,  17701,  secretary,  contact  Ms  Carol  King 

Mutual  of  Omaha.  United  of  Omaha.  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701,  Accountant, 
contact  Mr  Rod  Watts.  326-1724, 

Woodbury  Fruit  Farms.  Dunkirk,  N.Y.  14048,  Nursery  Manager,  contact  Mr. 
Phil  Leonard,  716-679.1708 

Part-time  lobs 

WJSA,  Jersey  Shore,  Pa  .  broadcasting,  contact  Terry  Quail,  398-7200 
K-Mart,  Williamsport.  Pa.  17701,  stock.  4  days/week.  5:30-9  p.m..  minimum 

wage. 
Kwik  Kopy  Printing,  Williamsport.  Pa.  17701,  clerical.  15  to  20  hours,  contact 

Mr  Tony  Musto  322-4726.  ^ 

Lysock  View  Nursing.  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701,  orderly.  4  to 9 p.m..  $3/hour.         ^ 
Lerners  Shop.  Lycoming  Mail,  custodian,  9  to  1  p.m.  minimum  wage,  contact     h 

Mrs.  Wertz  f 

Bro-Darl,  Williamsport.  Pa   17701.  shipiiiiig  clerk,  $2.95/hour. 


Campus  Recruiting 


(For  all  1980  graduates  and  Alumni) 

Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester.  N  ^'  .  Klump  Academic  Center,  Rooms  137  and 
138  Group  meetings  at  9  a  m  fin  \n\   r.  m  Kliiinp  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Leighton  Industries.  \"i  7.  Ui  l.linjj  siK.p  ilmup  meetings  at  3:30  p.m.  in 
Welding  .Shop.  l!nil  3 


Page  6 


Student  houses    College  trustees  meet, 
prime  targets      extend  library  lease 


Capt.  Matthew  M,  Rook,  of  the 


.  has  V 


rned  stu- 


WilJiamsportpohc 
dents  that  many  college  rooming 
houses  are  located  in  one  of  the 
city's  high-crime  areas. 

These  houses  are  prime  targets 
for  local  thieves  during  weekends 
and  holidays,  he  said. 

Capt,  Rook  advised  students  not  to 
leave  valuables  such  as  expensive 
stere(»  in  their  rooms  when  they 
leave  for  weekends  or  holidays. 

Saw  Dusters 
lead  division 

By  Brian  Kippey 

Staff  Writer 

t\otp:   Intramural  fimtball  (WKmIj   sf/ici/- 

uIpiI  for  tost    fffilnesiliiy  »*"•  [HHilfwnefl 

tlttp  Iti  ihv  roniprl  at  Itiirilo  dym. 

This  season  Division  B  co-leader  Sir 
Timber  is  the  most  awesome  team  so  far. 
The  Timberman  have  outscored  their 
opponents.  83-6  to  compile  a  3-0  record. 

Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits,  the  other  co- 
leader,  was  to  have  played  Sir  Timber  last 
Thursday  evening  in  the  most  crucial 
game  of  the  week. 

On  Wednesday.  Sept,  26,  Saw  Dusters 
and  Wild  Bunch  -  both  previously  3-0  — 
squared  off  at  the  hockey  field  to  break 
their  first  place  tie. 

In  a  cose  game.  Saw  Dusters  defeated 
Wild  Bunch,  13-7,  to  take  a  one  gai 
in  Division  A. 

Following  is  a  list  of  the  standings 
last  Wednesday  and  previous  scores 
DIVISION  A 

Saw  Dusters 
Wild  Bunch 
LaRue's  Jocks 
Just  Head 
Christian  Soldiers 
Steelers 
Tuesday.  Sept.  25 

Wild  Bunch  14 

Christian  Soldiers  1 

Saw  Dusters  27 

Just  Head  6 
Wednesday.  Sept.  26 

Saw  Dusters  13 

Wild  Bunch  7 

LaRue's  Jocks  won 

by  forfeit  over  Hutch  Ones 
DIVISION  B 

Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits 
Sir  Timber 
T-Birds 
McChickens 
Dukes 

Marvier  house 
Tuesday.  Sept.  2.1 

Dukes  13 

T-Birds  13 

Sir  Timber  34 

McChickens  6 
Wednesday.  Sept.  26 

Screaming  Gypsy  Bandits  31 

Marvier  House  0 

Dukes  13 

McChickens  9 


>  lead 


W 


W  LT 

i    0    0 
i    0    0 


By  Brad  English 
Staff  Writer 

The  College's  board  of  trustees  held  its 
monthly  meetmg  last  Monday  night  and 
took  action  on  items  which  included  an  ex- 
tension of  a  lease  agreement  for  (he 
college  library. 

The  library  space  is  rented  from  the 
Rishel  Furniture  Co.  The  extension  lease 
agreement  provides  for  a  period  of  one 
year  beginmng  Jan  1. 1980. 

Rental  cost  for  the  space  for  the  year 
will  be  $25,800.  a  seven  and  one-half  per- 
cent increase  over  the  present  lease 

This  agreement  also  provides  for  an  ad- 
ditional six-month  or  one-year  rental  op- 
tion if  the  new  Learning  Resources  Center 
is  not  completed  lo  house  the  library 
facilities  on  schedule. 

Trustees  reelected 

The  board  also  re-elected  trustees  Mrs. 
Gay  Campbell  and  Paul  Paulhamus  as  the 
college's  delegate  and  alternate  delegate 
to  the  Pennsylvania  Federation  of  Com- 
munity College  Trustees. 

In  other  action,  the  board: 

—Approved  a  resolution  to  approve  re- 
imbursement for  the  architect's  fee  for  the 
building  improvement  program  by  the 
State  Public  School  Building  Authority. 

—Approved  requests  by  two  students 
from  sponsoring  districts  to  attend  com- 
munity colleges  outside  the  district. 

Lynette  Haskins,  Northern  Potter  School 
District,  was  given  approval  to  attend  the 
Dental  Assisting  program  at  Lehigh  Com- 
munity College,  Charles  E.  Attig  Jr., 
Selinsgrove  Area  School  District,  was 
given  approval  to  attend  the  police  science 
program  at  Harrisburg  Area  Community 
College. 

Contracts  awarded 

—Awarded  contracts  to  two  suppliers  for 
replacement  apparatus  for  use  in  the 
electric  motor  control  lab.  Total  cost  of  the 
equipment  as  bid  was  $49,054. 

Low  bids  for  the  equipment  were  from 
Raub  Supply  Co..  Williamsport.  for 
$37.6(14.  and  Anesco  Supply.  Kingston,  for 
$11,390. 

—Acted  on  personnel  matters  that  in- 
cluded the  resignations  of  six  employees. 
Juliann  Pawlak,  financial  aid  assistant, 
resigned  effective  Oct.  2  for  other  employ- 
ment. 

Four  CETA  employees  —  Joel  Russell, 
G  David  Phillips,  Larry  Borgess  and  Em- 
mett  Baker  —  all  resigned  to  accept  other 
employment. 

Craig  Weaver,  personnel  clerk,  also  re- 
signed to  accept  other  employment  but  has 
agreed  to  provide  training  time  on  an  as- 
needed  basis 

Gulf,  basketball  coaches  approved 

Larry  Manikowski  was  approved  as 
men's  basketball  coach  through  March  i. 
1980,  at  a  salary  of  $1,200, 

Dwight  Waltz  was  approved  as  golf 
coach,  from  Aug  27  to  Nov  1  of  this  year 
at  a  salary  of  $605,  He  replaces  Harry 
Specht  who  resigned  the  position. 

William  Gaskin  was  hired  as  a  security 
officer  at  $6,750  annually;  Bruce  Benson 
was  hired  as  a  bus  driver-general  laborer 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

'  Adult  Judo  Classes         Classes  Start  Fiist  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^j^jM^"  ^"""""'^^^8 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank         »:^J«m-. m'.^:^^ 

Promotions  S       ONE  FREE  LESSON       g 

■  Boys  &  Gills  Judo  Classes  «  Ihe  Golden  Dragon  ludo  Club5  5 

'  Self  Defense/ tu  fitsu      ■yhjs  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonS 
Classes  S 


368-3295 


s. 


atWtlltamspoit  YMCA 
on  Mondays,  Wednesdays,  o:  Saturdays 


at  $6,300,  and  John  Dunklet>erger  was 
hired  as  a  custodian  at  $6,000.  These 
positions  are  all  full-time  classified 
personnel  jobs. 

Dr.  Bowers  paid 

A  stipend  of  $1,000  was  approved  for  Dr 
Robert  G.  Bowers,  director  of  math. 
science  and  allied  health  division,  for  his 
work  as  a  part-lime  administrator  of  the 
1978-80  contract  with  WACCEA. 

Approval  was  also  given  for  a  number  of 
part-time  and  substitute  instructors,  part- 
time  and  temporary  employments,  and  for 
pay  adjustments  for  additional  community 
and  continuing  education. 

The  college  board  of  trustees  will  meet 
next  on  Nov,  5.  1979,  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the 
Parkes  Automotive  Building  on  Susque- 
hanna Street. 


Ms.  Jennie  T.  Bills,  the  present  fi- 
nancial aid  director,  has  previously 
worked  as  assistant  financial  aid  di- 
rector at  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology    for    four-and-one    half 


Windfall,  New  Riders 
'big  hit'  in  concert 


By  Dwight  Schmuck 
Staff  Writer 

The  crowd  showed  real  enthusiasm, 
gelling  into  the  songs  with  vigor,  during 
the  Fall  Event  concert  featuring  Windfall 
and  New  Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage, 

The  two  groups  performed  as  part  of  the 
Student  Government  Association's  three- 
day  entertainment  fete. 

During  last  Wednesday's  concert,  both 
groups  played  their  versions  of  country- 
rock,  including  selections  about  love,  cars, 
and  the  noxious  weed. 

Windfall  is  a  Boulder,  Col .  based  group 
using  phase-shifters  and  other  electronic 
implements  in  their  music  As  a  warm-up 
group,  they  inspired  the  audience  nicely, 
preparing  the  people  lor  the  main  group 

Chuck  Pollock,  rhythm  guitar  player 
and  lead  singer,  said  they  don't  as  yet  have 
a  record  out,  but  they  will  —  ",  .  .hopefully 
soon." 

Mike  Galesi,  bass  player  and  backup 
vocalist  said  the  group  has  been  together 


for  only  a  year  and  a  half.  He  also  said  the 
students  were  a  ".  .  .real  nice  crowd." 

Both  musicians  said  the  group  would  be 
glad  to  come  back  again. 

The  feature  group,  New  Riders  of  the 
Purple  Sage  is  from  Marin  County,  Calif. 
NRPS  has  been  together  "ten  years  this 
fall,"  according  to  John  Dawson,  the  lead 
singer. 

Dawson  said  the  group  has  been  on  tour 
for  three  weeks  with  another  three  weeks 
to  go.  He  also  said  the  group  is  trying  to 
work  out  the  negotiations  for  a  new  album, 
but  the  final  agreement  has  not  been 
reached  yet. 

NRPS  plays  a  unique  style  of  country- 
rock,  primarily  doing  songs  with  mari- 
juana-related themes  and  humorous  songs 
of  the  Old  West,  cars,  and  bittersweet  love 
ballads. 

By  the  end  of  the  night,  NRPS  had  the 
entire  crowd  on  its  feet,  clapping  ener- 
getically with  the  music,  crying  for  more 
at  the  concert's  close 


^I 


Coupon  Enpire^ Oct  20    i9?9 


Rummage  Sale! 

Saturday,  Oct.  20 
in  The  Lair 
10  a.m.  'til  ? 


■Ill  H,;illll  .  l.s. 

Sliidenl  Oriiw 

,k>.  f<r.unK.  Ki,., 


stiml  I'ra^r 


Kir.  Ktc.  Kir.  lOlr 


The  warehouse 
—  anonymous 
but  active 


Far  from  the  maddening  crowd,  those 
who  work  at  the  college's  warehouse  pro- 
vide a  vital  —  but  overlooked  —  function. 

Despite  anonymity  to  the  majority  of 
people  on  campus,  Warehouse  Supervisor 
Harry  P.  Tupper  and  his  crew  take  their 
jobs  seriously. 

Basically.  Tupper  and  his  crew,  consist- 

Beatty  talks 
to  students 
about  co-op 

Frank  Beatty  3rd  talked  to  his  plumbing 
students  recently  on  cooperative  education 
opportunities  in  their  field. 

Beatty  said  many  things  are  to  be 
learned  in  co-op  that  are  hard  for  student  s 
to  learn  while  attending  school. 

He  pointed  to  the  fact  that  while  just  one 
instructor  is  trying  to  help  about  20  stu- 
dents, in  co-op  the  employer  and  his  em- 
ployes are  there  to  aid  the  student  when  he 
needs  help. 

Helps  understanding 

Co-op  also  helps  students  understand 

that  what  they  are  learning  in  school  will 

be  instrumental  in  what  they  will  do  after 

graduation,  he  added. 

Employers  are  given  objectives  con- 
cerning what  specific  field  the  students  are 
to  receive  training  and  must  provide  work 
for  the  student  in  that  area. 

Beatty  said  it  is  a  built-in  protection  to 
make  sure  that  the  student  is  learning  the 
same  thing  or  more  than  he  would  if  he 
were  attending  regular  classes. 
Consultation  follows 
After  the  eight  week  co-op  period  is  over, 
the  instructor  has  a  consultation  with  each 
co-op  student's  employer,  wherein  the  em- 
ployer grades  the  student.  Beatty  said  that 
usually  the  employer's  grade  is  within  .02 
of  the  student's  average. 

John  P.  Mahoney,  a  building  tech- 
nologies student  who  worked  in  co-op  over 
the  summer,  was  pleased  with  the  pro- 
gram. Mahoney,  who  worked  for  Richard 
Buffington  &  Son  in  Highspire,  felt  that  it 
was  beneficial  to  him  and  helped  him  in 
the  course  he  was  studying. 

Doing  work  in  plumbing,  heating,  and 
air  conditioning,  Mahoney  said,  he  was 
treated  like  any  other  employe  while  on  his 
co-op  adventure.  He  said  they  assumed  he 
knew  what  he  was  doing,  but  were  there  to 
help  when  he  indicated  he  needed  it. 


rlinl.'  Ix'lil 


Automotive  students  attended  an  elec- 
tronic ignition  clinic  Sept.  26,  according  to 
Marlin  E.  Roush,  transportation  tech- 
nologies director. 

Echlin  Corporation  held  the  clinic  in  the 
George  H.  Parkes  Building,  displaying  the 
latest  line  of  ignition  systems  used  in  the 
auto  industry  today. 

The  purpose  of  the  clinic,  according  to 
Roush.  was  to  inform  students  how  the  new 
systems  worked  and  how  they  are 
installed. 

Asked  about  his  holding  out  for  an 
$80,000  contract  in  1930  -  which  bested  the 
$75,000  per  year  then  earned  by  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  —  Babe  Ruth 
replied,"  Why  not?  I  had  a  better  year 
than  he  had." 


mg  of  Nancy  A.  Lockridge,  secretary, 
Kenneth  A  Spayd  and  Phil  Doud,  workers, 
receive  supplies  requested  by  various  divi- 
sions, "break  it  down"  as  Tupper  puts  it, 
process  it,  and  then  distribute  it. 

In  explaining  the  cycle,  Tupper  began 
with  the  ordering  phase.  Each  division  di- 
rector makes  out  a  requisition  sheet  which 
is  then  sent  to  the  purchasing  office,  and  a 
reference  copy  of  the  order  is  sent  to  the 
warehouse.  If  the  order  is  approved,  pur- 
chasing department  then  places  it. 

Upon  arrival,  the  equipment  is  "broken 
down",  or  checked  in  against  the  purchase 
order  and  the  packing  slips  for  accuracy 
Some  of  the  equipment  is  then  marked 
with  the  purchasing  order  number  to  as- 
sure it  is  distributed  to  the  right  place. 

After  the  equipment  is  processed,  it  is 
distributed,  or  temporarily  stored  until  re- 
quested. Supplies  such  as  pens  and  pencils. 


Oct  8.  1979 

however,  are  kept  in  stock  and  may  be 
requisitioned  at  any  time,  Tupper  said 

At  the  distribution  point,  Tupper  said 
"whoever  receives  it,  (the  equipment), 
signs  for  it"  and  a  copy  of  the  receiving 
order  is  kept  on  file  at  the  warehouse. 

Because  of  the  quantity  and  variation  of 
goods  received,  Tupper  said  the  purchas- 
ing and  receiving  orders  are  filed  numer- 
ically and  alphabetically,  for  easy  refer- 
ence when  problems  or  questions  about 
equipment  arise. 

The  months  of  August  and  September, 
are  the  busiest,  Tupper  said.  But,  the 
storing  and  distribution  of  supplies  such  as 
welding  rods  and  sheet  steel  for  the  weld- 
ing shops,  and  tile  for  the  tile  shops,  keeps 
him  busy  throughout  the  year.  Receiving  a 
shipment  on  backorder  also  keeps  the 
warehouse  crew  busy,  he  added 


c 

T 

0 

H 

F 

U 

M 

F 

R 

E 

S 

E 

D 

H 

A 

0 

Y 

U 

0 

M 

c 

p 

E 

T 

1 

1 

Forestry  Club 
cooking  &  selling 
food  &  refreshments 
for  this  event! 


s 

E 
R 
A 
B 
I 

A 
N 


MiV^^nin^-^^tv^TrvrrmTarnr. 


SPOTLIGHT  Page  7 

Besides  these  duties,  Tupper  said  the 
warehouse  crew  is  responsible  for  picking 
up  mail  for  the  college  at  the  post  office 
and  delivering  it  to  the  mailroom  Storing 
paperwork  for  the  mailroom  is  also  their 
responsibility,  he  said. 

In  trying  to  "keep  everyone  satisfied", 
Tupper  said  a  few  minor  problems  arise  in 
getting  orders  with  overages  and  short- 
ages straightened  out  He  added  that 
"someone  just  running  out  of  something 
and  not  reordering,  and  wanting  it  right 
away"  can  also  pose  problems. 

With  Topper's  motto.  'We  try  to  keep  it 
I  the  equipment)  going  out  as  fast  as  it 
comes  in  ".  the  large,  dark  warehouse,  lo- 
cated at  the  fool  of  Park  Street  next  to  the 
Crooks  building  may  go  unnoticed,  but  its 
function  does  not 

Advisory  coniniitlee  sees 
Susquehanna  job  site 

The  Service  and  Operation  of  Heavy 
Equipment  program  held  its  fall  advisory 
committee  meeting  Wednesday.  Sept  26, 
in  the  Earth  Science  Building,  according  to 
Joseph  G  Sick.  Earth  Science  Division 
director. 

The  committee  met  in  the  building  and 
then  took  a  bus  to  the  Susquehanna  Job 
Site.  At  the  site,  they  observed  the  new 
service  building  and  the  new  equipment 
acquired.  They  were  shown  how  the  opera- 
tion end  of  the  program  was  being  taught, 
according  to  Sick. 

After  this,  the  committee  was  asked  for 
suggestions  about  how  to  improve  the 
teaching  process  Those  attending  the 
meeting  then  went  to  King's  Motel  for  din- 
ner and  discussion. 

Dr.  McQuay  attends 

evaluation  talks 

Dr.  Paul  L-  McQuay,  director.  Engineer- 
ing and  Design  Technologies  Division,  and 
Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen,  president,  at- 
tended an  evaluator's  conference  on 
Wednesday,  Sept.  26  at  the  University  City 
Holiday  Inn  in  Philadelphia. 

The  conference  was  sponsored  by  the 
Commission  for  Higher  Education  (CHE) 
and  Middle  States  Association  of  colleges 
and  schools  (MSA). 

The  meeting  focused  on  forms  of  self- 
study,  characteristics  of  excellence  in 
higher  education,  and  academic  evalua- 
tion 


Classifieds 

WILL  DO  TYPING 

TYPING  done  in  my  home  with  electric  type- 
writer; clean  manuscripts  produced.  Any- 
time. Reasonable  rates.  Call  368-8965. 


Protect 

Your  Valuables 

When  You're  Away 

Thievery  o(  valuables  -  such  as  stereos, 
CB's.  bicycles,  etc.  -  is  a  problem  for  col- 
lege students  today 

Safeguard  your  property  by  engraving 
your  Social  Security  number  on  these 
Items 

An  engraving  pen  is  available  on  an 
overnight  basis  from 

Mr.  Charles  J.  Haas, 

Housing  Coordinator, 

Room  104, 

Klump  Academic  Center 


Bulletin  Board 

MOVIE 

•The  Boys  in  Company  C"  and  "Flash  Gordon  "  serial.  Chapter  5.  7:30  lo 
night,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  with  student  ID 
MEETINGS 
Wednesday,  Phi  Beta  Lambda,  3:45  p  m  ,  Room  302,  Klump  Academic  Cen- 
ter. 
Thursday,  lnterclubCouncil,4  p  m  ,  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

CONFERENCE 
Tomorrow,  Student  Leadership.  7  to  9  p  m  .  free 

(iOI.K 
Today.  Golf,  Northampton  County  Community  College,  away,  1  p.m. 
Thursday.  Golf,  Luzerne  County  Community  College,  home,  1  p  m 

HOCKEY 
Tomorrow.  Field  Hockey.  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  home,  4 
a.m. 
Friday.  Field  Hockey.  Bucks  County  Community  College,  away.  4  p.m. 
SPECIAI,  EVENT: 
DANISH  GYM  TEAM 
Wednesday.  Danish  Gym  Team,  8pm.  Bardo  Gym,  free  to  WACC  students 
vith  ID 

COEFEE  HOUSE 
Thursday,  8  to  II  p.m,  Klump  Academic  Center  Cafeteria. 

HOKSEBACKKIDING 
Saturday.  Outing  Club  Horseback  Ride 

CKOSStOCNTKY 
Saturday.  Cross  Country.  Luzerne  County  Community  College.  4  p.m. 


African  leaders 
visit  college 


talk  to  Africans  about  their  ideas  as  well  as 
problems,  according  to  Dr.  Walters. 

The  candidates  chosen  for  representa- 
tion are  selected  based  on  interviews 
conducted  by  the  director  of  the  U,  S, 
Cultural  Center  in  their  country  and  a  staff 
member  of  Operation  Crossroads  Africa, 
Many  candidates  have  studied  abroad  and 
have  represented  Africa  at  international 
meetings. 

The  dean  said  that  despite  the  emphasis 
on  the  professional  aspect  of  the  program, 
cultural  values  will  also  be  of  significant 
importance. 

In  the  course  of  their  six-week  visit  to  (he 
United  States,  the  participants  wilt  have 
visited  many  cities  as  wel!  as  towns  and 
rural  communities. 

They  will  also  have  attended  such  events 
as  basketball  games,  rodeos,  country 
fairs,  plays,  films,  concerts  and  visited  na- 
tional monuments  and  historic  sites. 

Dean  Watter  said,  "It  is  hoped  that  when 
our  visitors  return  to  their  home  countries 

Yule  concert 
choir  practice 
this  Thursday 

A  rehearsal  will  be  held  this  Thursday 
for  the  Christmas  concert  choir,  according 
to  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire,  Theater  Group  ad- 

The  rehearsal  will  begin  at  3:iOp.m  and 
run  until  5  pm..  Students  mterested  in  try- 
ing out  for  the  choir  need  not  be  there  the 
entire  time,  said  Mrs,  Frymire 

The  rehearsal  will  be  in  the  auditorium 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center. 

The  Christmas  concert  is  scheduled  dur- 
ing the  first  weeks  in  December,  according 
to  Mrs,  Frymire. 


on  Oct,  21,  they  will  have  a  better  under- 
standing of  American  society  and  the  ways 
we  deal  with  our  own  developmental  prob- 
lems." 

Anyone  interested  in  talking  with  these 
African  leaders  may  contact  Dr.  Watters 
"as  soon  as  possible". 

This  year's  candidates  and  their 
countries  are  Sande  K.  Simutowe,  45, 
Zambia;  Enoch  Atua  Baadu.  52.  Ghana; 
Henry  J,  Jenkins.  54,  Sierra  Leone;  Abdi 
Heybe  Eimi,  40,  Somalia;  Abdilahi  M, 
Farah,  38.  Somalia;  Mohammed  Rahma. 
48,  Sudan;  Melville  Ferguson  Paps  Kmg, 
40.  The  Gambia  West  Africa. 

SWAI  Flugence  S.  S.  32,  Tanzania;  Mon- 
sieur Makhtar  Diop,  49.  Senegal;  Monsieur 
Issembe  Amedee,  42,  Gabon;  Monsieur 
Mbom  Clement,  36,  Cameroon;  Monsieur 
Akali  Boubacar,  26  Niger;  Monsieur  Bah 
Idrissa,  35,  Mali;  Monsieur  Sanour  Fabere 
Gustave,  37.  Upper  Volta  and  Citoyen 
Nkundimana  Rutijanwa.40of  Zaire, 


Music  To  The  Kars  Deparlment:  Prat- 
licing  for  the  Theater  Company  variety 
show  are.  left  to  right.  Michell  A.  Engle. 
student    from    Selins- 


Mr 


Lea 


Theater 


l^illo's 
■     College 
Corner 

Restauiant/SnacK  Bat 


Company  director,  and  .Susan  E.  Delbis 
general  studies  student  from  honesdale. 


Open  for  Breakfast:  7  a. 


CIUO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE; 
Call  ahead  toi  takeout  oideis.  Phone  322  1321 
We  will  hate  oidei  leady  foi  you  to  pick  up. 


a.niT^ 


lirpakfast  Served  'lit  Kh.Vhi.i 


Hours:  7  a.m.  ■  4 


IM^^ 


Strike  force  formed 
to  fight  old  problems 


<  >.n„nnr.Hr..n,  r.,^.-  I 

"Somebody  has  to  be  in  charge  " 

He  added,  "everybody  likes  to  have  a 
good  time."  but  if  people  are  outside 
"yelling  and  screaming,"  neighbors  will 
complain.  He  said  that  once  on  the  scene  of 
a  disturbance,  police  will  check  ages  if 
alcohol  is  present. 

Breath  checks 

Capt  Rook  made  it  clear  that  police 
would  check  identification.  He  also  said, 
"If  you're  innocent,  you  never  have  any- 
thmg  to  worry  about." 

He  added  that  police  would  smell  the 
breath  of  underage  people  at  a  gathering. 
An  underage  person  who  attends  a  party 
and  does  not  partake  of  alcohol  will  not  be 
arrested.  Capt  Rook  said.  He  mentioned 
that  those  living  in  a  house  where  a  party 
takes  place  would  not  be  arrested  unless 
they  were  underage  and  drinking. 
High-crime  area  outlined 

He  also  said  that  in  most  cases  where  a 
complaint  has  been  lodged  against  a 
student  house,  the  students  admit  the 
police  to  investigate.  He  said,  the  police 
"can  request  them  to  hold  the  noise  down 
when  answering  a  complaint.  Usually  the 
kids  let  them  in." 

Capt.  Rook  added  that  the  police  have 
the  right  of  entry  to  investigate  a  disturb- 
ance. He  also  made  it  clear  that  the  three 
houses  in  question  happen  to  fall  within 
one  of  the  city's  high-crime  areas. 

He  outlined  the  area  as  being  north, 
south  and  west  of  the  700  block  of  Fourth 
Street,  including  Campbell  Street. 
Related  crimes 

Other  city  trouble  spots  being  covered 
by  the  strike  force  are  Fourth  Street  in 
Newberry,  some  sections  of  Walnut  Street 
and  the  Project  area  of  the  East  End. 

The  crimes  most  often  associated  with 
underage  drinking  are,  according  to  Capt. 
Rook,  criminal  mischief,  traffic  accidents, 
assaults,  indecent  exposure  and  other  sex 
crimes  including  rape. 

Underage  drinking  itself  is  a  summary 
offense.  Capt.  Rook  explained.  A  citation  is 
issued  and  the  person  has  to  appear  before 

PBL 

Wall  Street  in  New  york  City. 

Other  business  included  setting  a  date 
for  a  roUerskating  party  on  Oct.  25  at  the 
new  Montoursville  skating  rink. 

Officers  and  members  of  PBL  attended 
a  seminar  at  Shippensburg  on  Saturday, 
Sept.  29,  from  10  a.m.  to  3  p.m.  Various 
workshops  were  scheduled  throughout  the 
day. 

Nutrition  books 
display  subject 

This  month's  display  in  the  college  li- 
brarv  features  books  on  nutrition  and 
health. 

Displayed  are  books  such  as  "Introduc- 
tion to  Nutrition"  by  Henrietta  Fleck, 
"Soybeans  as  a  Food  Source"  by  W  J. 
Wolfe,  and  "Cook  Now.  Dining  Later"  by 
Catherine  Althaus  and  Peter  French- 
Hodges 

Periodicals  Readers  Service  Assistant 
Miss  Lou  S,  Dudish  said  she  encourages 
students  to  take  advantage  of  these  books 

All  of  these  books  and  many  others  may 
be  obtained  from  the  library  from  8  a.m. 
until  9  p  m  Monday  through  Thursday. 
The  library  closes  at  5  p.m.  on  Friday  and 
is  reopened  Monday  morning. 

The  display  continues  throughout  Octo- 
ber 


The  most  prolonged  continuous  shower 
bath  on  record  is  one  of  175  hours  and  7 
minutes  by  David  Foreman  at  Niagara 
University,  New  "Vork,  from  Oct,  25  to  Nov 
2, 1973. 


a  magistrate  to  answer  the  citation. 
Strike  force  effective 

An  arrest  and  conviction  for  underage 
drinking  leaves  a  permanent  police  record 
for  those  18  to  20  years  old.  Capt.  Rook  ex- 
plained. Those  under  18  would  have  a 
juvenile  record. 

Capt.  Rook  maintains  that  the  strike 
force  has  accomplished  what  it  set  out  to 
doin  the  Fourth  Street  area. 

Number  of  arrests 

"The  700  block  of  West  Fourth  Street  has 
been  cleaned  up  in  the  last  two  weeks."  he 
said,  "The  incidence  of  arrests  has  gone 
down  since  the  strike  force  was  imple- 
mented," 

The  total  number  of  arrests  was  "going 
on  200."  Capt.  Rook  said.  Of  those,  over 
half  were   made   in   the   Fourth  Street- 
Campbell  Street  area  outlined  previously. 
Augments  regular  force 

When  underage  drinkers  are  arrested  in 
bars,  the  Pennsylvania  Liquor  Control 
Board  takes  appropriate  action  against  the 
bar  owners,  Capt.  Rook  said. 

Capt.  Rook  said  the  strike  force,  which 
augments  the  regular  police  platoon  on 
duty,  nearly  doubles  the  available  man- 
power and  has  been  '  'very  effective. ' ' 
Checking  bars 

"Nobody  is  on  the  streets,"  he  said,  re- 
ferring to  troublemakers.  "Let's  face  it, 
you  should  be  able  to  walk  the  streets  in 
this  area." 

He  also  said  that  the  strike  force  has 
made  it  possible  to  have  "policemen  on  the 
street  at  all  times,"  even  when  the  regular 
platoon  is  tied  up  with  investigations  or 
traffic  accidents. 

He  added  that  the  strike  force  will  be 
"going  as  a  squad  and  checking  bars  for 
underage  drinking," 

Capt.  Rook  emphasized  that  the  strike 
force  is  a  city-wide  operation  with  wide- 
spread mobility.  It  was  formed  to  clean  up 
the  city's  high-crime  areas,  he  explained. 

"The  last  thing  we  want  to  do  is  harass 
the  WACC  students,"  he  concluded.  "We 
haveother  things  to  do." 
Found  it('ni>  in  scrnrilv  ollicc 

Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  chief  security  of- 
ficer, said  there  have  been  several  lost  and 
found  articles  turned  in  to  the  Security 
Office. 

These  items  include  10  jackets,  a  wed- 
ding band,  two  watches,  and  several 
books. 

Anyone  who  has  lost  any  of  these  items 
should  go  lo  the  Security  Office  on  the  first 
floor  of  Klump,  Officer  Smeak  said 

Sylvania  offers  scholarship 

GTE-Sylvania  is  offering  a  schol- 
arship to  female  or  minority  elec- 
tronics technology  students  with  B 
averages,  according  to  Jennie  T. 
Bills,  director  of  financial  aid. 

Applications  for  the  $250  per  se- 
mester grant  are  available  in  the 
Financial  Aid  Office,  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center 


The  People  Paper 

CITIZEN 
PRESS 

Call  326-2846 
Now  to  Subscribe 

S4.50  six  months 

$7.50  per  year 
Sl.S.SO  two  years 


BE  WISE 


CLASStnED 


(  THE  WILUAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE) 


ei^BUIilJEGJU 


J  "v. 


c 


Monday,  Oct  15.  1979 


Bioodmobiie  to      Dietician's 


visit  Wednesday 

Students  interested  in  donating  blood 
can  do  so  when  the  Red  Cross  Bioodmobiie 
visits  here  next  week. 

The  first  date  scheduled  is  Wednesday, 
Oct.  31,  from  9:45 a.m.  until  3: 45  p.m. 

The  Bioodmobiie  will  also  be  here  the 
following  day,  Thursday.  Nov.  1.  from  9:15 
am.  until3:15p.m. 

Staff  day 
planned 

"The  80's  -  New  Decade  -  New  Chal- 
lenges —  New  Skills"  is  the  theme  for  this 
year's  All  College  Staff  Development  Day, 
according  to  Barb  Gilmour.  college  com- 
munications director.  The  presentations 
are  scheduled  from  9  a.m.  to  3:30  p.m.  on 
Friday. 

The  morning  presentation.  "Marketing 
the  Community  College"  will  be  given  by 
Dr.  Ernest  R  Leach.  Leach  is  Dean  of  Stu- 
dent Affairs  at  Prince  George's  Commun- 
ity College,  Largo,  Maryland. 

In  the  afternoon,  eight  programs  will  be 
given  for  various  groups  of  faculty  and 
staff.  Staff  members  who  normally  work 
evening  hours  have  been  authorized  to 
chiHige  their  linurs  so  they  may  attend  thf 
workshops- 

The  college  switchboard  will  be  closed 
during  the  workshop,  with  a  taped 
message  on  and  the  evening  switchboard 
opened  for  emergency  answering  service. 

More  information  about  locations,  times 
and  sign-up  sheets  will  be  distributed 
before  the  presentations, 

Energy  talk 
will  be  given 

The  office  of  Community  and  Continuing 
Education  has  announced  an  energy 
seminar  to  be  held  Wednesday,  Oct.  17. 
The  presentation,  for  energy  conscientious 
homeowners,  is  scheduled  from  7  to  10 
p  m  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

John  R.  McKee.  a  coordinator  for  the 
governor's  energy  council,  will  be  dis- 
cussing ways  of  conserving  energy,  indi- 
vidual home  needs,  and  financial  projec- 
tions. 

Engineering  club  to  hold 
annual  fund  raising  event 

The  Student  Society  of  Manufacturing 
and  Engineering  (SME)  has  scheduled  its 
second  annual  Gong  Show.  MichaelJ,  Silk, 
committee  chairman  for  this  fund  raiser, 
says  auditions  will  be  held  on  Tuesday,  . 
Oct,  30  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
auditorium  at  7 : 30  p.m. 

The  show  itself  will  also  be  held  in  the 
KAC  auditorium.  Nov,  6  at  7:30  p.m.  Silk 
says  'judges  and  emcees  will  be  from 
WMPT.  WWPA.  and  WLYC 

Admission  prices  are  $1  with  student  ID, 
$2  for  the  public. 


chief  chef 

Miss  Belly  L.  Shusler  became  president 
of  Ihe  Food  and  Hospitality  iFH)  club 
Wednesday,  Sept,  26,  at  the  club  meeting, 
Shuster,  formerly  vice  president,  moved 
up  to  the  presidency  when  Miss  Christine 
J.  Cryder  resigned  from  that  position,  ac 
cording  to  advisor  Vivian  P,  Moon, 

At  the  meeting  the  FH  planned  a  clam 
cake  sale  for  Thursday,  nov,  8,  George  E 
Schreppel.  club  secretary,  said  orders  are 
being  taken  until  Friday.  Oct,  26.  in  room 
107  of  Klump  Academic  Center 

Clam  cakes  can  be  ordered  by  half  dozen 
or  dozen,  and  can  be  picked  up  after  11 
am  Nov,  8,  Schreppel  said  the  club  has 
not  determined  a  price,  but  will  do  so 
before  taking  orders. 

The  FH  members  discussed  assisting 
the  Student  Government  Association  in 
purchasing  a  van  Schreppel  said  the 
group  was  willing  to  share  the  expense 
with  other  clubs. 

The  club  members  also  talked  about  a 
yearbook  and  what  they  felt  should  be  done 
with  the  yearbook  funds  if  there  was  not 
going  to  be  one  Schreppel  said  the  club  felt 
the  money  should  be  given  to  each  depart- 
ment to  make  possible  deparlmcnlal  year- 
hooks, 

A  2-l-hi)ur  vollevliall  nuiuilhun  In]  ■m,i, 
March  was  also  planned 

Children's  Theme  Nij^ht 
to  he  held  Wednesday 


African  leaders  dining  in  the  faculty  dining  area  in  (he 
cafeteria  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center.  They  were  here 
last  week  visiting  the  campus. 

African  visitor  reflects 
on  American  schools 


According  to  Lizabeth  C.  Cooney. 
evening  Tot  Watch  Coordinator,  Oct,  17 
will  mark  the  beginning  of  what  will 
become  a  weekly  Theme  Night. 

Every  Wednesday  night,  beginning  at  7 
p.m.,  the  evening  Tot  Watch  service  will 
hold  a  two-hour  session  of  special  aware- 
ness and  understanding  programs  for  the 
children.  A  $2  fee  will  be  charged  for  each  personal  needs 
session.  No  registration  or  other  charge  supplies 
will  be  required. 


By  Ti  ud\  Shivelv 

I  Uliiik  IlK'if  L.  .1  l)il  (11  .lillt.inii,-  111 
your  school  and  ours  'murs  is  slalt:- 
funded.  while  ours  is  federally  funded." 
saidSande  K.  Simutowe,  of  Zambia. 

Simutowe  is  one  of  the  African  leaders 
who  visited  the  College  last  week. 

"In  the  United  States,  you  pay  for  your 
college  education;  in  Zambia,  education 
from  grade  one  to  the  university  is  free." 
he  added. 

Simutowe  also  said  that  while  students 

are  attending  school,  they  receive  money 

from  the  federal  government.  This  money 

used    primarily    for    the    student's 

well    as    for   school 


Thi'  Danish  (iyni  Team,  which  performed  at  Hardu  (vvni  last  Wedn 
ni^ht.  held  the  audience  spellbound  as  they  New  through  the  air  executii 
believable  and  sometimes  dangerous  moves. 


Ihi-  jllo'.v.jnrr  IS  fiiven  to  all  stu- 
duiits.  i  t'gdrdless  ol  hnancial  income.  The 
American  system  is  based  on  the  student's 
income  solely,  he  commented. 

"Although  free."  he  explained,  "we  do 
not  have  enough  primary  schools:  grades 
one  through  seven.  Also,  when  students 
reach  seventh  grade,  they  must  be 
screened  before  they  can  enter  secondary 
schools. 

"At  this  stage,  we  have  100.000  students 
and  only  20%  will  gain  entry  into  our  sec- 
ondary schools."  headded. 

Trying  to  improve 
The  Zambia  government  is  currently 
trying  to  improve  this  rule  of  screening. 
The  major  change  would  be  to  move  the 
screenmg  from  grade  seven  to  grade  nine. 
This  would  give  more  students  a  chance  at 
a  better  education,  he  said. 

Those  students  who  do  not  make  en- 
trance into  a  secondary  school  must  seek 
employment.  They  must  begin  working  at 
age  12.  which  creates  hardship  That  is 
why  it  is  important  these  changes  are 
made,  he  said. 

Football  a  mystery? 

"What  do  you  get  out  of  iced  tea?"  he 

asked-  "I  enjoy  hot  tea,  but  I  do  not  enjoy 

the  iced  tea."  he  said,  when  asked  about 

our  American  food  and  drink. 

■"1  also  do  not  understand  football,  but  it 
IS  nearest  to  our  rigby.  I  like  baseball.  It  is 
easier  to  understand.  But  I  enjoy  a  more 
active  sport  like  rugby,"  he  said,  com- 
menting on  questions  asked. 

Simutowe's  most  memorable  experience 
was  seeing  Pope  Paul  during  the  Pope's 
visit  to  the  United  States, 

"it  was  really  fantastic, 
see  him  The  American's  re 
the  Pope,  "  he  said     "I've 
many   people  before  in  oi 
added - 


so  exciting  to 
ally  welcomed 
never  seen  so 
le  place."  he 


I  to  Ptifie  4i 


Page  2 


SPOTLIGHT 


Oct.  15, 1979 


Congratulations 

By  Dwight  E.  Schmuck 
Staff  Writer 

Congrotulotions  ore  in  order  for  Mrs.  JoAnn  Fremioiti  ond  the 
Student  Government  Associotion  (or  presenting  a  fine  Fall  Event  here. 

Just  thinking  about  all  the  work  and  strain  involved  with  promoting, 
orgonizing.  and  finolly.  putting  on  o  week  of  enlertoinment  such  as  we 
had  is  exhausting.  Actually  doing  it  would  hove  to  leove  people  in  a 
state  of  fotigue. 

Most  of  the  students  seemed  to  enjoy  themselves  due  to  the  work  of 
Q  few  anonymous  people.  To  those  people  we  should  give  o  special 
round  of  opplouse. 

Thank  you. 

Music  review 

Minnie's  Last  Album 

By  Trudy  M.  Shively 
Staff  Writer 

"Minnie"  by  the  lote  Minnie  Riperton  prerequisites  her  last  album 
entitled  "Stay  In  Love.  .  .A  Romantic  Fantasy  Set  to  Music,"  to  fully 
enjoy  the  beauty  of  her  music. 

Sad  farewell 

Riperton,  31.  died  July  13  olter  a  courageous  three-year  bottle  with 
concer.  This  lost  olbum,  released  only  a  month  before  her  death, 
reveals  the  depth  of  her  pain. 

The  only  song  in  which  she  reaches  her  tonol  peak,  is  one  entitled, 
"Memory  Lane,"  which  is  obviously  her  sod  farewell. 

Whenever  Minnie  song,  I  felt  my  insides  rush  and  quiver.  I  could  not 
believe  how  incredibly  high  she  could  sing.  She  touched  a  place  in  me 
where  no  one  else  could  go.  .  .how  much  I  shall  miss  her. 

Ironically,  her  last  words  in  "Memory  Lone '  ore  a  desperate  cry  for 
help  —  she's  colling,  "I  don't  wanno  go.  .  .save  me.  .  .sove  me." 
Minnie!  She's  gone.  .  .  . 


From  My  Desk 

Childish  Behavior 


By  John  Zelewicz 

Staff  Writer 

■  sometimes  did  things  which  < 


'  termed  "Child- 


In  high  school  ' 
ish  behavior". 

We  ore  no  longer  in  high  school,  but  this  childish  behovior  is  some- 
times carried  over  to  college. 

One  day  lost  week  the  door  knob  to  Room  6,  Klump  Academic 
Center  wos  dismanteled.  When  the  door  was  closed,  people  were 
trapped  within,  unable  to  get  out  until  Security  come  and  unlocked  the 
door. 

Luckily  there  were  no  problems  this  time. 

This  time.  .  .but  what  about  next  time? 

This  sort  of  behavior  is  not  only  childish  and  expensive,  but 
dangerous. 

Television  review 

A  Heavenly  Show 

By  Robert  E.  Thomas 
Staff  Writer 

"Out  Of  The  Blue"  is  a  delightful  new  comedy  series  containing  o 
heaven-sent  angel  (literally),  an  ount  with  no  prior  experience  in 
raising  children,  and  kids  —  three  boys  ond  two  girls, 

The  ongel  is  sent  from  heaven  to  look  after  this  unfortunate  group  of 
orphans  and  their  aunt.  The  aunt,  due  to  lock  of  experience,  has  her 
hands  full  caring  for  the  kids. 

There  is  a  lesson  to  be  leorned  in  each  episode.  The  one  having  the 
trouble  comes  out  on  top  every  time  with  the  help  of  the  ongel  of 


The  humor  here  is  original  and  refreshing  without  the  usual  s 
s'o'ed  ""o^e-^  preve'o"*  ■"  ♦odoy's  •e'ev'S'O"  "Ou»  O*  The  Blu 
nnner  and  should  be  around  for  some  time  to  come 


c  ond 


VIEWPOINT 


By  Brad  E.  English  and  Trudy  M.  Shively 
ol  Ihe  SPOTLIGHT  slaif 


S,^. 


Whadd'ya  say.  . 


Dave     Drogone, 

of 

Johnsburg, 

Jeff  A.  Berger,  of  Johnsburg,  elec- 

lochinist   generol: 

"1 

don't    know 

trical  technology:  "1  didn't  know  they 

othing  about  that." 

were  there.  " 

Michael  R.  Morgan,  of  Drums,  elec- 
frlcoi  construction:  "Not  very 
much.  .    they  don't  bother  me." 


Mark  D,  Fotula,  of  State  College, 
mochinist  general:  "Well,  I  think  that 
they're  being  misinterpreted. 
Furthermore,  Russia  is  no  less  afraid 
than  we  are  and  everybody  has  a 
right  to  defend  ourselves." 


Whof  do  you  think  about 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  year, 

except  for  officio/  cotfege  vocotions,  by  journotism 

and  other  interested  students.  Office 

Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement)   Telephone   f/l?) 

326-J76I,  Extension  221 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn, 

Manogmg  Edlloj  MoHle  Zelewicz 

Compus  Ediloc     j„„  ^    Daniel 

Asiociole  Campus  Editor John  F  Zelewici 

Sports  Editor Jocque/.ne  J   Cordene 

Photography  Editor Dwighl  £    Schmuck 

Senior  Sloll  Reporter s^ad  £  English 

Reporters  Robert  J  Alien.  Oonno  L  Ginler.  Theresa  J  MocKenzle,  John  L  fticirerf, 
Srlon  A1  s.ppey  les/ie  M  Rogers,  Trudy  M  Slylvely.  Cindy  M.  Snook,  Kimber/y  A 
Steele.  Lorry  G   Steele,  Robert  E   Thornos,  Christina  N.  Welbfey 

^"■"  *'"'" MichoeUeklles 

Contributing  Reporter Gall  M    Thompson 

Stolt  Assislonl Timothy  A    Tolh 

Production  team   lh,s   issue     John  F     ZeiewK;     supervisor;  Jacquelina  J.  Cqrdene, 
Theresa  J.  MocKenr.e   BiianM    fl^ppey    Robert  E    Thomas. 


Brian  P.  West,  of  Corning,  New 
York,  machinist  generol:  "I  think  the 
government  should  find  out  what 
they're  really  doing  there." 


Donald  L.  RIghtnour,  of  Williams- 
port,  machinist  general:  "I  haven't 
been  following  them  too  well  myself. 
I  don't  think  it's  good  for  American 
defense." 


the  Soviet  troops  in  Cuba? 


SPOTLIGHT 


WORLD  OFWORK 

CAREER  OPPORTUNITIES 

(For  all  1980  Giaduates  &  Alumni) 

Bradford  Hospital,  Bradford.  Pa  16701.  needs  Electrical  technician.  If 
interested  contact  Ms.  Joyce  Kelley  at  814-368-4143  ext.  571. 

Beech  Aerospace  Service.  Inc.,  Corpus  Christl.  Texas  78412,  is  in  need  of 
Aiialion  Mech.  (A  &P  Rating)  If  interested  call  Mr  John  Gcarhalt  at  512-939- 
2936 

Divine  Providence  Hospital.  Wllliamsport.  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Medical 
Secretary.  If  interested  call  Ms.  Patricia  Miller  at  326-8515. 

Strick  Corp  .  Washingtonville,  Pa  .  is  in  need  of  Executive  Secretary.  If 
interested  call  Mr,  Adam  Zane  at  717-437-3141 

YMCA,  Wllliamsport.  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Electronics  Tech.  for  repair  worli.  If 
interested  call  Mr.  Allan  Skinner  at  323-7134. 

North-Central  X-Ray.  Danville,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Electronics  Tech.  for  repair 
and  sales.  If  interested  call  Mr  Dan  Koons  at  717-275-7713. 

Leighton  Industries.  Inc.  Phoenixville.  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Welder  (test 
required).  If  interested  contact  Mr.  Ron  Bernes  at  215-933-5832. 

AMSCO  (American  Sterilizer)  Co  ,  Erie,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  either  Mech. 
Drafting  or  Engineering  Drafting  student.  If  interested  contact  Personnel 
Officer  at  814-452-3100. 

Nichols  Machinery.  Co..  Dallas,  Texas,  is  in  need  of  Auto  Mechanic,  If 
intereited  contact  Mr.  Robert  Nichols  at  214-421-3581. 

Prudential,  So.  Wllliamsport.  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Executive  Secretary.  If 
interested  call  Ms.  Arlene  Dunlap  at  323-3641 

Bi  Co.  Machine  and  Tool.  Phillipsburg,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Machinist.  If  inter- 
ested contact  Mr  Arnold  Keller  at  814-342-0198. 

Wllliamsport  Area  School  District,  is  in  need  of  Auto  Mech.  If  interested  call 
Ml   Fdward  Blackburn. 


Sahn  lecture 
held  at  Bucknell 

Dr.  Richard  Sahn.  professor  of  social 
sciences  here,  gave  a  lecture  on  religion  at 
Bucknell  University  in  Lewisburg  on  Oct. 
4. 

Sahn  was  a  guest  speaker  at  a  freshman 
seminar  on  religion  held  by  Gerald  Cook, 
of  Bucknell  University. 

Sahn  gave  his  talk  on  Scientology,  one  of 
the  so-called  "cult"  religions.  He  spoke  at 
a  supper  meeting  before  15  students. 

Gamma  Epsilon 
Tau  to  sell  subs 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  will  be  holding  a 
hoagie  sale  this  Wednesday  in  front  of  Unit 
six.  The  sale  will  be  from  U  a.m.  to  I  p.m. 
The  hoagies  will  sell  for  $1. 

Artists  Unlimited  holds 
meeting,  elects  officers 

Artists  Unlimited  held  its  first  official 
meeting  on  Tuesday,  Oct.  2,  said  club 
President  Gerald  J,  Rexer  A  new  vice 
president,  Cathy  S.  Witter  was  elected  into 
office;  and  SGA  representative  and  al- 
ternate are  Julie  D.  Goss  and  Rebecca  L 
Orr,  respectively. 

Secretary.  Cathy  G  Karchner.  said 
approximately  15  new  members  were 
inducted  into  Artists  _  Unlimited.  Miss 
Karchner  also  stated  that  plans  are  under 
way  for  the  December  Christmas  card 
sale,  and  that  the  club  is  planning  a  full 
schedule  of  events  for  the  coming  year 

The  life  span  of  a  tortoise  could  reach  1 16 
years. 

CAR  POOL  -  I  would  like  a  ride  on  any  oi  all 
days  lion  WACC  to  Loch  Ha»en  at  2  p  m  Contact 
Jean  May  in  Unil  6.  Aichilectuie  Section  on 
second  tloor  oi  call  748-8424  alter  5  p  m 

ANWOUNCtlWEWT 

Photography,  free  lance:  call  322-8076  alter  6 


freelance  Photogiapher,  Need  pix  taken'  Call 
435^521 

LOST  1  OK  Gold  Ring  with  diamond  chip  and 
initials  JM  Sentimental  Value.  II  you  have  infoi- 
mation  please  contact  SPOTLIGHT  Box  2 


Oct.  15, 1979 


l.itlini!H  fnr  H  iWrf  »/  If  «r*  nre  imiviilril  In-  Frmk-  J.  Ilm 

'•lmmi„;,l  (Iffm:  Hm,m  _•(«.   Klum,,    Uwlfmi,   OiiKr.  /,i, 
.■.(,.,/  (,.  l/i,il  „ffi,  ,■. 


Page  3 

iirvftiir.  Otili'fif       ^ 


I  need  of  Secretary  (All  disciplines) 


Hubb  Surgical.  Williamsport.  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  LPN.  If  interested  call  Mr 
Koser  at  322-6154 

Temp.  Force.  Williamsport.  Pa.,  is  ii 
interested  contact  Ms.  Carol  King. 

Mutual  of  Omaha.  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Business  Management  or 
Business  Accounting  student.  If  interested  call  Mr  Rod  Watts  at  326-1724 

Scaife  Valley  Press.  Williamsport.  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Graphic  Arts  Students,  If 
interested  call  Mr.  Sam  Scaife  at  322-3132. 

Woodbury  Fruit  Farms.  Dunkirk.  NY.  is  in  need  of  Nursery  Manager.  If 
interested  call  Mr  Phil  Leonard  at  716-679-1708. 


PART-TIME  JOBS 


WJSA.  Jersey  Shore.  Pa  .  is  in  need  of  Broadcaster.  If  interested  call  Terry 
Quail  at  398-7200 

K-Mart.  Williamsport,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  stock  hoy,  4/week,  5:30  to  9  p.m.  If  in 
terested  call  Patty 

Kwik  Kopy  Printing.  Williamsport,  is  in  need  of  Clerk,  15  to  20  hours/week.  If 
interested  call  Tony  Musto  at  322-4726. 

Lysock  View  Nursing  Home.  Williamsport,  is  in  need  of  Orderly.  4  to  9  p.m 
Salary  $3. DO/hour, 

Lerner's  Shop.  Lycoming  Mall,  is  in  need  of  Custodian,  minimum  wage 
Hoursare9a  m  tol  p.m.  If  interested  call  Mrs  Wertz. 

Arena  Restaurant.  Williamsport.  is  in  need  of  Busbov-wailer  or  waitress 
minimum  wage  Hours  are  6-10  or  6-Upm  If  interested  call  Linda  Green. 

Bro-Dart.  Williamsport.  is  m  need  nl  Shippine  clerk.  Salary  is  $2.95 an  hour. 

Additional  information:!  111. Ill  ;in\  nl  ih.  uni  idmi;  |,ilis  niav  be  obtained  in  the 
Placement  Office.  Room  Jii'i  Kluiiiii  .\i  .iilnnn  (  Vnii,, 


$1,000,000 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Crea*  Outdoors 


I  Footwear  •  Work-Hunting-HIKIng 
I  Outerweai  •  VESTS-JACKETS-COATS 
I  JEANS  •  You  name  It  -  We  have  it 
I  Athletic  Footwear 
GLOVES  •  Mittens 


325  Market  St. 

OPEN  9  AM  -  9  PM  Mon.  Fri. 

Other  DAYS  9  AM  -  5:30  PM 


Pre-Sepson  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 
Alpine 


^ 


Page  4 


SPOTLIGHT 


Oct.  15, 1979 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents 

Tonight 

7:30  p.m. 
Klump  Academic  Center 

$1.00 
The  Buddy  Holly  Story 

Free  admission  to  anyone  who  presents  a  Buddy  holly 

album  at  the  door 

1  free  admission  per  album  only! 

He  Just  May  have  been 

the  Greatest  Rock  Entertainer 

of  2dl  time. 


Ilr  chan^rd  (hr  sound 

of  music  with 

"Thalll  be  thf  Day" 

"Peggy  Sue"  "Oh  Boy" 

It's  so  Kasy"  "Kavc  On" 

"Maybe  Baby" 
L   and  many  more.  . 


"...gives  a  fine  and  altogether  believable 
portrait  of  an  extremely  complex  young 
man  of  zealous  dedication."    Fi„bB,<»knqii.n. 

THEi^ 
BUDDY  HOLLY  IT  STORY 

Next  Week 

Horrible  Double-Bill 

Piranha 

and 

Invasion  of  the  body  Snatchers 

(original  version) 

In  Two  Weeks 

George  Romero's: 

Night  of  the  Living  Dead 

and  Rabid 


f    Bulletin  Board     °°^ 

11  .\10\1E  " 

■The  Buddy  Holly  Slory"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial.  Chapter  6.  7 :  30  tonight. 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  with  student  ID 
MEETINGS 
Today,  Ouling  Club.  6  p.m..  Room  229,  Klump  Academic  Center 
Tomorrow,  Student  Government  Association,  4  p.m..  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 
Tomorrow,  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau.  4:00p  m  .  frat  office,  Unit  6. 

CONFERENCE 
Tomorrow,  Student  Leadership  Conference,  7-9  p.m.,  free. 

CROSS  COUNTRY 
Tomorrow.  Cross  Country,  Bucks  CCC-A,  4  p  m 
Saturday,  Cross  Country,  Bucks  CCC  Invitational-A,  12  noon. 

GOLF 
Thursday,  Golf,  EPCCAC  Tournament,  White  Deer  Golf  Course-H.  11am. 

SWIMMING 

Thursday;  Swimming,  YWCA,  Isl  20  persons.  7-8  p.m..  free. 

SALE 
Saturday,  Rummage  Sale,  10  a.m.  to  ?.  Will  be  held  at  Lair  by  Health  Assist- 


nt  Prograhi  Students. 

STAFF 

Friday,  Staff  Development  Day,  no  credit  classes. 


11        Frid: 

African 


J 


.1 1,. 


Slate  fairs  hitercsling 

Another  enjoyable  event  was  his  first 
visit  to  state  fairs.  "I  went  to  the  Seattle 
and  Oklahoma  City  State  Fairs  and  they 
were  very  interesting."  he  said.  "I  enjoyed 
the  exhibits  especially." 

"My  impression  of  Americans  is:  they 
are  very  open  people.  I've  visited  Britain. 
China,  and  Hong  Kong,  but  !  think  Ameri- 
cans are  more  open  minded  people  I  am 
very,  very  impressed."  he  added.  They 
make  you  feelat  home. ' " 

Americans  help 

"The  thing  that  sticks  in  my  micd,  is 
that  they  talked  to  me  without  knowing 
me,  ■  he  said  -They  will  help  ynu  when 
you  are  stranded.  .  .you  ask  for  assistance 
and  they  will  give  it  to  you." 

In  closing,  Simutowe  wanted  to  show  his 
appreciation  to  the  college  and  all  con- 
cerned. 

"I  would  like  to  give  my  sincere  thanks 
to  the  organization  of  Operation  Cross- 
roads Africa  who  have  made  this  trip 
possible  for  us,"  he  said.  "I  also  thank  all 
the  people  who  have  been  involved  in  one 
way  or  another  to  make  this  program  a 
success." 


Cheerlea(lin«;  tryouts  end, 
squad  n)enil)ers  cliosen 

Cheerleading  tryouts  were  held  on 
Wednesday.  Oct.  3.  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 
Those  selected  were  Tammie  Lupoid. 
(CS);  Tammy  Shivelhood.  (GS);  Deb 
McHenry.  (BR);  Cathy  Neidig.  (AR); 
Julie  Goss.  (AR)  and  Ruth  Confers,  (PR). 

Mrs.  Donna  R.  Miller,  assistant  physical, 
education  director,  is  the  cheerleading  ad- 
visor   

Bob  Beamon  set  a  record  in  the  long 
jump  in  1968  He  jumped  29  feet,  2'.2 
inches,  to  exceed  the  previous  record  jump 
by  over  two  feet. 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G.  Wascher 

Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Une 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (717}  326-3393 

Dintment  Only 


^ 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes  Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments  ^J^M^" ~ " ~ ~  ~ ~ 'M^ 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank  »:^J«J«. •IS^ 

Promotions  S         QNE  FREE  LESSON 

•  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Dragon  Jodo  Clubs  S 

.  Self  Delense/Ju  Jitsu      Jrhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonH 

''''^^"  ^  atWilhamspoilYMCA  g 

0CQ_0OQC     ^  on  Mondays,  Wednesdays,  o:  Saturdays  9 


THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE_^ 


0(?BtfllIJEGJtf 


(Monday,  Oct.  22, 1979       Voi7l5,No.-8  8  Pages) 


Underage  drinkers  keep  drinking,  society  says  0,K, 


New  york, 
New  York! 


ATH5 


(  ..ney  Island  •■art" 

IMiR'laiins 

lili'iiilliecilv 

liiok  pari 

in  Urban  Sociology 

field  trip. 


I, 


,t  1 


Cinema  club      Forest  technicians 
to  welcome  -.  .        p.   i  i 

new  members    plan  spring  tield  meet 


Cinema  Club  is  holding  a  meeting  to- 
night at  6:45  p.m.,  Room  317.  in  Klump 
Academic  Center,  to  greet  new  members 
into  the  club,  said  Dr  Peter  Dumanis,  club 
advisor. 

Those  students  wishing  to  become  mem- 
bers must  be  either  full  or  part-time  stu- 
dents at  the  college  "People  outside  the 
college  may  become  members,  but  will 
have  no  voting  authority  and  cannot  hold 
an  office",  stated  Dr.  Dumanis 

"The  club's  main  purpose  is  to  provide 
film  entertainment  at  a  bargain  price  to  all 
the  college  students ",  affirmed  Gordon  G 
Tucker,  club  emperor. 


The  Forest  Technicians  Club  plans  to 
participate  in  a  field  meet  in  the  spring. 

This  year,  the  college  will  host  the  meet, 
according  to  James  C.  Pivirotto,  advisor. 

Four  or  five  teams  from  different  states 
will  compete  in  the  meet.  The  competition 
will  be  made  up  of  different  woodsman's 
events,  such  as  tree-felling,  ax-throwing, 
and  log-cutting. 

The  club  will  choose  II  members  to 
represent  the  college  in  the  meet  In  the 
past,  the  club's  team  has  been  as  success- 
ful or  belter  than  other  teams  in  the  com- 
petition. 


Computer  breakdown 
causes  much  concern 


By  Theresa  MacKenzie 
Staff  Writer 

An  IBM  computer  breakdown  at  Lock 
Haven  State  College  has  caused  a  lot  of 
concern  to  the  students  of  the  computer 
programming  curriculum,  according  to 
Wilham  T,  Ward,  director  of  the  Computer 
Center. 

Students  normally  using  the  terminal 
here-which  goes  into  an  open  line  to  the 
IBM  in  Lock  Haven— are  now  using  the 
Digital  Equipment  Corporation  (DEC) 
system  on  the  third  floor  of  Klump 
Academic  Center. 


This  system  is  usually  used  by  many  of 
the  second  year  students  It  is  not  equipped 
to  accomodate  all  of  the  computer 
programming  students,  said  Ward, 

He  said.  "As  of  now,  the  reason  for  the 
breakdown  is  unknown,"  The  Bell  Tele- 
phone Company  and  the  IBM  Corporation 
are  checking  into  the  problem— with  little 
success." 

The  College  cannot  afford  a  computer  of 
this  type,  said  Ward,  so  instead  it  has  a 
leased  telephone  line  that  is  open  for 
students. 

This  line  is  connected  to  the  IBM 
(Please  turn  to  Pa^e  8) 


Last  year,  after  a  long  winning  streak,  it 
finished  down  in  the  standings  in  a  close 
meet. 

The  meet  provides,  according  to  the  ad- 
visor, a  good  opportunity  for  the  members 
of  the  club  to  meet  with  people  in  the  same 
field  from  other  areas.  They  can  discuss 
schools,  jobs,  and  also  share  ideas, 
Pivirotto  said. 

At  present,  the  club  is  selling  chances  for 
a  raffle.  The  tickets  cost  $1.  First  prize  is  a 
Remington  shotgun,  second  prize  is  a 
Woodrich  vest,  and  third  prize  is  a  hunting 
knife.  The  drawing  will  be  Nov.  I  There  is 
a  limited  number  of  tickets  left,  the  advis- 
or said. 

The  club  is  also  planning  such  social 
events  as  a  cookout.  a  block  shoot,  and  a 
trap  shoot.  It  has  not  set  any  dates  for 
these  events. 

Also  in  the  future,  the  club  will  sell 
firewood.  No  plans  have  been  finalized  for 
prices  or  amounts. 


By  Mollie  Zelewicz 
Starr  Writer 

Editor's  Mote:  Thia  article  is  sequenti(J  to  a 
previously  publuhed  SPOTLIGHT  article 
dealing  with  the  Ifilliamsport  Police  De- 
partment's Task  Fone  to  quell  underofse 
drinking  and  related  problems  in  the  city. 

Alcohol  use  and  abuse  by  underage 
drinkers  is  increasing  in  America  today, 
according  to  Shirley  E.  Haberman.  She  is 
the  director  of  the  Lycoming  and  Clinton 
counties  Drug  and  Alcohol  Counseling 
Center. 

"Alcohol    is   once    again    acceptable 
among  youth."  she  said.  "Society  presents 
alcohol  in  a  very  postitive  way  " 
Set  of  problems 

She  said  that  the  young  person  who  is 
arrested  for  underage  drinking  does  not 
necessarily  have  a  drinking  problem,  "but 
if  arrested  again  and  again  that  person 
uouJd  clearly  be  a  high  risk  ' 

Ms.  Haberman  explained  that  a  young 
person  with  a  history  of  arrests  for  under- 
age drinking  "probably  has  a  set  of  prob- 
lems." 

"The  major  problem  is  low  self- 
esteem. 'she  explained. 

(Please  turn  to  Page  8t 

Seminar  slated 
for  operators 

Service  and  Operation  of  Heavy  Equip- 
ment students  will  be  involved  in  a 
seminar  for  students  and  faculty  on  Tues- 
day and  Wednesday,  Oct,  30  and  31  from  9 
a.m.  toSp.m, 

The  seminar  will  take  place  on  college 
property  at  the  Susquehanna  River  site, 
according  to  Ben  Eldred,  field  instructor 
for  the  program. 

The  seminar  will  be  presented  by  the 
Drott  Division  of  the  J  I.  Case  Co  .  of 
Racine,  Wis,  Arrangements  were  made 
through  the  S.  C.  Hanson  Equipment  Co.. 
of  Horseheads,  N.  Y. 

The  seminar  will  cover  operation  of 
hydraulic  excavators,  It  will  also  cover 
troubleshooting  and  preventive 
maintenance 

Instructors  involved  in  the  seminar  will 
be  Scott  B.  Appleman,  Benjamin  H. 
Eldred.  Dan  C  Emick.  William  L. 
Stevens,  and  PaulJ  Zell 


Grade  time  coming  soon 


Mid-term  grade  reports  will  be  sent  this 
week  Students  who  are  making  unsatis- 
factory grades  (D  or  F)  in  any  course  at 
this  time,  will  be  notified  by  mail,  ac- 
cording to  Kathryn  M.  Marcello,  director 
of  student  records. 

Any  student  who  receives  such  mid-term 


advisor  and  their  instructors  in  an  effort  to 
improve  their  work  quality,  according  to 
the  Records  Office. 

Those  students  with  satisfactory  grades 
will  not  be  notified  at  this  time 

For  more  information,  students  can 
report  to  the  Records  Office.  Room  HO. 


grades  should  immediately  consult  their     Klump  Academic  Center. 


Page  2  SPOniGHT  Oct  22.19" 

Whodd'yo  say  .  .  . = 

By  Mollie  Zelewicz  and  Leslie  M.  Rogers 

What  did  you  think  about  the  Pope's  visit?  of  The  spotlight  staff 

Dovid  B.  Clork,  o(  South  Willioms  V¥^B                                                   '•°"'S«  S.  Myers,  of  Millville,  oper- 

port,     chemistry    instructor:       The  ^^W                                               oting    roor„    technician:     "For    some 

impact  will   be  minimal    in   the   long  Jviiw*,t                                                 people    it    did    some    good,    but    for 

run.  Humanity  should  view  the  visit  OS  ■/»            ,,                                                 others  it  didn't  do  anything.  I  think  it 

^\             m.—      t                                           °    ^'9"''"^°"'    *"*"'■    *""'    ^'""^^    "'^  '                                                        wos  a  good  influence  overall." 

^'       ■■  •""      I                .^    ^                     prime  motivotions  of  the  people  con-  ^^^^ 

I         ^BV\,                hnue   to   be   greed   ond    power,    the  i.oiiim' >MM'rs             ^^^^^ 

David  R.  (lark             ^V  C  E               memory  of  the  visit  will  fade."  ^^^S 

«^     ■                            '  W^Wf                    ^^°"    C-    •^i'olo.    o*    Warminster, 

"      -     ■^                   Susan     K.     McNeal,     of     Soyre.  '^^                  grophic  arts:  "I  thought  it  was  pretty 

1    f    I                    orchitecture:    "I    think    people    were  I      jff                   good.   He   inspired  a   lot  of  children 

-■ ^                   omused  by  it.  People  didn't  pay  much  ^^P>»                 °"'^  "'"^^  people  happy.  He  gave  his 

©attention   to   it.    It   gave   women   on  ^^^               '^  \                        opinion  on  how  the  Catholic  Church 

opportunity  to  voice  their  opinion  on  Mt  ^^                                     ^        should  be  run." 

-Susan  K.  McNeal           the  Catholic  laws'  M^^^    '  "^an  C.  Kifoto 

t.^/                                                         Ronold    J.     Fitzpatrick.     of     Lock  J^K^^I^S                                               Roxann  M.  Roach,  of  Troy,  grophic 

gj^BlHfe^                                          Hoven,  drafting:    "As  long  os  he  ond  ^H]                                                             °'''="    '"  ^°^  brought  certain  current 

W^^^^^^M                                       'he  rest  of  the  Catholics  in  the  world  ^^*                                                         events  bock  to  life:  such  as  obortion 

^^^^^H|                                       think  it  did  some  good,  then  it  was  all  o"'^  women  s  lib.  It  s  got  the  people 

■■■^^DB                                           riqht."  —      ..  „       ^                                             thinking  about  religion  agoin." 

Ronald  J.  Filzpalrick RmiaiinJVrRoacli^^_____^^^^_^^_^^^^^^___^^^^^ 

VIEWPOINT 

Book  review  Music  review 

Fight  for  freedom  Albums  smash  hits 

S|r  Brad  English  By  Donna  L.  Ginter 

Staff  Writer  SfoH  Writer 

"The  Legend  o(  Eorl  Durond"  is  the  story  of  a  man  who  had  nothing  The  Cors.  new  artists  on  the  record  scene,  have  been  around  since 

but  his  freedom  and  who  died  rather  than  let  thol  freedom  be  token  1978.   With  two  albums   to  their  credit,    they've  already  swept  the 

from  him.  public  s  acclaim. 

Its  o  true  story,  written  by  Glen  A.  Hilken,  and  it  describes  the  goih  oibums,  "Cars"  and  "Candy  O"  ore  smash  hits,  ond  ore  stoying 

massive  manhunt  that  went  on  in  voin  while  a  lone  hunter  mode  fools  steody  on  Americas  Top  40  charts. 

out  of  the  lawmen  on  his  trail.  The  first  time  I  heard  The  Cars.  I  thought  they  were  a  British  group. 

Grew  up  free  Bu,  |  ^^i  pleased  to  find  the  group  consists  of  four  cleon-cut  "Bogart- 

Earl    Ourand    wos    o    man    who    grew    up    free    in    the    Wyoming  looking"  rockers, 

mountoins.  owoy  from  the  cores  and  concerns  of  other  people.  He  The  Cors  is  one  of  the  new  groups  contributing  to  the  creation  of  a 

took  what  he  needed  from  the  land  and  did  what  he  had  to  in  order  to  pg^  ^^g  jp  tqq^  anj  roll 

survive.  The  Cars  sing  of  things  I  con  relate  to.  But  they  present  their  music 

When  the  gome  lows  brought  a  stop  to  the  year-oround  hunting  of  ,he  woy  I  conceive  music  of  the  Eighties  to  be. 

elk,  Eorl  Durond  turned  poacher.  When  on  attempt  was  mode  to  jail  so„,e  o,  The  Cars    songs  are  outlondish.  using  eerie  synthesizers 

him  for  hunting  elk,  he  turned  fugitive.  When  he  wos  chosed  with  ^„j  echoing  voices.  Still  I  find  The  Cors  oibums  easy  to  listen  to. 

rifles  and  dogs,  he  turned  into  o  killer.  I,  ,h|s  group  is  o  preview  of  future  music,  my  ears  anticipate  the 

Continued  light  arrival  of  the  Eighties. 

Before  the  chose  ended.  Eorl  Durond  escaped  from  400  possemen.  ■k-k-k-i^-i^o:::.:.::::::::::^::::::^^^^ 

eluded  on  airplane,  destroyed  two  mortars  ond  o  howitzer  and  could  ^i          CD/^TI  1/^  LJT 

hove  disoppeored  into  the  Rockies  forever  hod  he  wanted  to.  '  <•©  OrLf  I  LH^H  I 

But  Eorl  Durond  wouldn  t  run  ond  hide.  He  was  determined  to  stay  First  Place  Award  Winner 

free  in  the  mountoins  or  die.  When  the  chase  was  closing  in  and  he  The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

tired  of  fighting.  Earl  Duronds  life  ended  in  o  blaze  of  gunfire.  He  died  ''he  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  ocodemic  yeor, 

without  ever  giving  the  law  onything  except  embarrassment.  except  for  officiol  college  vocofions.  by  /ourno/ism 

This  book  is  one  of  the  few  thol  really  portrays  the  spirit  of  the  and  other  interested  students   Office 

mountain  men  who  find  themselves  trapped  by  rules  and  lows  in  o  Room  7,  K/ump  Acodem/c  Center  (bosementj   Telephone:  (717) 

time  and  place  where  they  dont  belong,  lt"s  on  adventure  story,  its  a  326-3761,  Extension  221 

western.  it"s  a  true  story.  Member.  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

I  Managing  Editor Mo" je  Zelewicz 

COnOrOf  U/af  lOn^  Con,pv,sEdllor                                                                                                             Jom   Dome/ 

V*  W/IIWl    Vi^lli/IViJIIVyiU  Associole  Campus  Editor John  F  Zelewici 

Sporls  Editor Jacqueline  J   Cordene 

The   SPOTLIGHT    extends   congratuiotions    to   the   College   Speciol  Phoiogrophy  Editor D^ighi  B  Schmuck 

Cwontc  rnm»^i«t»n  l«,  u,„     ■         *u     r»       ■    L  i-          T             i_  Senior  Stotf  Reporter Brad  £    English 

tvents  Committee  tor  Drinqnq  the  Danish  Gvm  Team  here  „                «  ,              ,. 

^     ^                      s-- wyiM  .«?u...  i.K.t;.  Reporters:  Robert  J    Allen,  Donna  L     Ginfer,    Thereso  J    MocKenz.e,  John  L     Rickerl. 

Brian  M    Rippey    leshe  A^     Rogers,    Trudy  M     Shlvely    Cindy  M     Snoott,    Kimberiy  A 

The  Gym  Team's  fine  performance  morked  a  cultural  highlight  not  Sfee/e.  lorry  g  Sieefe.  Roberif  rhomos.  Chrisuno  n  Weib/ey 

only  for  the  college,  but  for  the  community.  Staff  Artists AiichoeUek/fes 

Contributing  Reporter GoiJ  M    Thompson 

Congratulations  ore  olso  extended  to  the  Food  and  Hospitolity  Club  ^"'"  *"'"°"' "•  ■ ' ^™°"'>'  *  '<'"' 

which  prepared  and  served  an  excellent  and  unique  meal  for  the  Gym  Production  toon,  this  issue;  Jon  L.  Daniel,  supervisor,  Robert  J.  Allen.  Trudy  M. 

Team  ond  guests .  Shiveiy.  Cindy  M.  Snook,  ond  Donno  L.  Ginter. 


WORLD  OF  WORK- 


CAREER  OPPORTUNITIES 

(For  all  1980  Graduates  &  Alumni) 

Bradford  Hospital.  Bradford.  Pa  16701.  needs  Electrical  Technician.  If 
interested  contact  Ms  Joyce  Kelley  at  814-368-4143  ext  571 

Beech  Aerospace  Service,  Inc..  Corpus  Christi.  Texas  78412.  is  in  need  of 
Aviation  Mech.  iA4  P  Rating!  If  interested  contact  Mr  John  Gearhalt  at  ,S12 
939-2536 

Divine  Providence  Hospital,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Medical  Secre- 
tar.v.  If  interested  call  Ms  Patricia  Miller  at  326-8515 

Strick  Corp.,  Washingtonville,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Executive  Secretar.v.  If  inter- 
ested call  Mr  Adam  Zane  at  717-437-3141 

YMCA,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Klectronics  Tech.  for  repair  work  If 
interested  call  Mr.  Allan  Skinner  at  323-7134. 

north-Central  X-Ray.  Danville.  Pa  .  is  in  need  of  Electronics  Tech.  for  repair 
and  sales.  If  interested  call  Mr  Dan  Koons  at  717-275-7713. 

Leighton  Industries,  Inc  ,  Phoenixville,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Welder  (test  re- 
quired )  It  interested  call  Mr  Ron  Bernes  at  215-933-5832 

AMSCO  (American  Sterilizer)  Co.,  Erie,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  either  Mech.  Draft- 
ing or  Engineering  Drafting  Student.  If  interested  contact  Personnel  Officer  at 
814-452-3100. 

Nichols  Machinery,  Co..  Dallas,  Texas,  is  in  need  of  Auto  Mechanic,  If  inter- 
ested contact  Mr.  Robert  Nichols  at  214-421-3581. 

Prudential,  So.  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Executive  Secretar.v.  If  inter- 
ested call  Ms.  ArleneDunlapat323-3641. 


1  need  of  Machinist.  If  inter- 


nterested 


I  need  of  Business  Management  or 

II  Mr  Rod  Watts  at  326-1724 

n  need  of  Graphic  Arts  students.  If 


Bi-Co  Machine  and  Tool,  Phillipsburg,  Pa 
ested  call  Mr  Arnold  Keller  at  814-342-0198. 

Williamsport  Area  School  District,  is  in  need  of  Auto  Mech 
call  Mr  Edward  Blackburn 

Hubb  Surgical.  Williamsport.  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  LHN.  If  interested  call  Mr 
Koser  at  322-6154 

Temp.  Force,  Williamsport,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Secretary,  If  interested  call  Ms 
Carol  King. 

Mutual  Of  Omaha.  Williamsport,  Pa  ,  is 
Business  Accounting  student.  If  interested 

Scaife  Valley  Press,  Williamsport,  Pa,  i 
interested  call  Mr,  Sam  Scaife  at  322-3132. 

Woodbury  Fruit  Farms.  Dunkirk,  N.Y  ,  is  in  need  of  Nursery  Manager.  If  in- 
terested call  Mr  Phil  Leonard  at  716-679-1708 

PART-TIME 

Hubb  Surgical.  Williamsport.  Pa,,  is  in  need  of  Typist.  If  interested  call  322- 
6154 

Bill  Newcomer  Contracting,  is  in  need  of  Carpenters,  If  interested  call  322- 
3175  ask  for  Sue  Hughes 

Sycamore  Nursing  Home,  Montoursville,  Pa  ,  is  in  need  of  Kitchen  Help.  If  in- 
terested call  323-2037  ask  for  Bill  Assad 

Information  about  the  preceding  jobs  may  be  obtained  in  the  Placement 
Office,  Room  209  Klump  Academic  Center,  Mr  Frank  Bowes,  Director. 


I'lf!!. 


Jur  11  orl.l  of  U  „rA  nre  pmr„M  In 

'rank  J.  tttm'es 

ihrevtur.  CoUef^e 

Offire.  Rui.m  2(1').  Klump    i.mkmi 

•  Center.  Inifiii 

IPS  ahouM  he  tti- 

h„l  „ffi.,. 

Dr,  Doyle  presents 
paper  to  conference 


Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  shorlly  before  delivering  scholarly  paper  in  the  West, 
lectures  in  Western  Civilization  class.  Dr.  Doyle,  at  left,  holds  "W.\CC  weed" 
which  was  used  to  simulate  ceremonial  used  when  a  lord  offered  a  piece  of  land 
toa  vassatinoldendavs. 


Dr,  Daniel  J  Doyle,  professor  of  govern- 
ment and  history,  presented  a  research 
paper  to  a  European  Studies  conference, 
sponsored  by  the  University  of  Nebraska. 

The  subject  of  the  paper  is  'The  British 
Free  Press  and  Advertising  in  1900  " 

According  to  Dr.  Doyle,  he  became  in- 
terested in  the  subject  durmg  a  one-year 
grant  at  UCLA  in  \976 

The  paper  concerns  (he  methods  utihzed 
by  advertismg  to  change  life  styles  in  the 
early  1900's. 

Conventional  items,  such  as  cold  cereals 
and  detergents,  came  into  production  at 
about  this  time  The  advertising  of  the  era 
had  to  change  ideas  and  values  concerning 
approaches  to  homemaking 

The  new  products  enabled  women  to 
have  more  free  time  to  spend  with  their 


More  than  50  attend  first  'Bag' 


Terming  the  first  'Your  Own  Bag"  ses- 
sion a  success,  Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney, 
coordinator  for  the  series,  explained  that 
the  meeting  turned  into  a  lively  discussion 
of  solar  technology. 

John  Boylan.  the  featured  speaker,  at- 
tended a  workshop  in  Maine  on  how  to  ap- 
ply solar  technology  to  what  he  refers  to  as 
"crackerbox"  houses-family  dwellings. 

The  meeting  was  attended  by  over  50 
people,  with  a  dozen  of  them  forced  to 
stand  in  the  hallway  outside  of  the  room, 
because  of  the  large  crowd  according  to 
Dr  Sweeney. 

Among  those  attending  were  electronics 
and  welding  students  and  a  woman  from 
the  community  who  brought  pictures  of 
her  house,  heated  by  solar  energy,  with 
her.  said  Sweeney, 

According  to  Dr  Sweeney,  the  session 
highlighted  the  fact  that  there  is  a  "need 
for  technicians  who  have  the  data  and  con- 
struction skills  to  get  with  a  writer  who  can 
Artists  club  corrects  misprint 

Artists  Unlimited  secretary  Kathy  G. 
Karchner  would  like  to  note  a  correction  in 
her  minutes  from  last  week  The  new  vice 
president  is  not  Cathy  S.  Witter  as 
previously  stated,  but  Cathy  S.  Neidig. 
ADVERTISEMENT 

For  sale:  72  Dodge  Coronet,  stereo  system  in- 
cluded. In  good  condition.  Asking  $650.  Mrs 
Matthews,  322-7295- 


put  it  on  paper  and  get  the  information  in 
newspapers  and  magazines. ' ' 

Members  of  the  group  traded  "gossip" 
concerning  things  they  had  heard  from 
various  sources,  not  many  of  which  were 
based  on  data,  concerning  the  operation  of 
a  solar  unit,  said  Sweeney 

Sweeney  said  much  of  the  information 
amounted  to  "smoke  signals  and  drum 
messages"  because  of  lack  of  data  and 
hard,  factual  information  on  the  subject- 
Boyle  included  information  obtained 
from  the  workshop  he  attended  and  sever 


al  pamphlets  he  had  on  the  subject  in  his 
talk.  He  said,  however,  that  much  of  the 
literature  that  has  been  published  does  not 
pertain  to  the  Northeast  and  that  informa- 
tion is  needed  to  develop  a  solar  unit 
designed  for  our  specific  needs 

The  next  scheduled  session  will  be  Nov, 
9,  in  Room  415  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center.  The  featured  speaker  will  be  Susan 
Brooke,  a  feature  writer  from  Blooms- 
burg-  The  topic  for  her  speech  will  be  dis- 
closed at  a  later  date,  according  to  Dr 
Sweeney 


^ 


children  or  pursuing  their  own  interests. 

According  to  Dr.  Doyle,  the  advertising 
of  the  period  had  to  "introduce  the  people 
to  modern  ways  of  doing  things  " 

Also,  he  said  the  advertising  "was  an  at- 
tempt to  change  basic  life  patterns." 

The  conference,  held  in  Omaha,  was 
held  last  Thursday  through  Saturday. 

Mime  Troupe 
plans  events 

The  Mime  Troupe  has  several  events 
planned  for  the  month  of  October,  accord- 
ing to  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire,  advisor. 

The  Troupe,  an  offshoot  of  the  Theater 
Company,  has  been  making  appearances 
around  campus  and  in  the  community 

On  Oct  30  the  Troupe  will  perform  for 
the  Crippled  Children's  Society  on  Edwin 
St,  at  8 p.m..  said  Mrs.  Frymire. 

On  Oct.  31.  the  members  will  perform  at 
the  Immaculate  Conception  School  from  12 
to2p.m 

On  November  9.  the  Troupe  will  be  at  the 
Lycoming  Mall  from  5  to 9 p.m. 

The  Mime  Troupe  consists  of  students 
from  all  curriculums  who  share  an  interest 
in  the  theater. 

Members  of  the  Troupe  include  Michael 
I,  Baughman,  MaryKay  K.  Danneker, 
Susan  M.  Fuimer.  Joyce  M  Hudson. 
Annita  L,  Lawton,  and  William  H.  Nields. 


SALE 


$1,000,000  STOCK 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       on  sale 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 

Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 
Alpine 


■  Footwear  •  Wotk-HuntingHiking 

■  Outerwear  •  VESTS- JACKETS-COATS 

■  JEANS  •  You  name  it  -  We  have  it 

■  Athletic  Footwear 

I  GLOVES  •  Mittens 

OPEN  9  AM  •  9  PM  Mon.Fri. 


Page  4  SPOTLIGHT  Ocl  22,1979 

— Daylight  Saving  Time  ends  —  clocks  set  back 


By  John  Zelewicz 
Staff  Writer 


Time  may  come  and  time  may  go.  now 
it's  gone  agam. 

Where  has  it  gone'' 

Daylight  Savings  Time  is  coming  to  an 
end  and  with  its  ending,  clocks  are  set 
back  one  hour 

This  event,  which  causes  the  populace  to 
go  from  room  to  room  changing  the  hands 
on  clocks,  will  take  place  this  Sunday  at  2 

Though,  most  people  will  set  their  clocks 
back  before  going  to  bed  Saturday  night 

Daylight  Savings  Time  was  originally 
thought  of  by  Benjamin  Franklin 
Franklin  wrote  an  article  on  the  advant- 
ages of  Daylight  Savings  Time, 

But  Franklin's  theory  was  not  taken  ser- 
iously until  1907.  when  an  Englishman 
named  William  Willett  wrote  a  book  titled 
"Waste  of  Daylight  ".  telling  of  the  advan- 
tages gained  by  daylight  savings  time 

In  May  1916.  Dayhght  Savings  Time  was 
created  when  England  passed  a  law.  in- 
stituting this  now  well  known  event 


Through  the  years,  this  event  has 
undergone  several  changes. 

In  1917  the  United  States  Congress 
passed  a  bill  which  authorized  the  ad- 
vancing of  clocks  one  hour  from  the  last 
Sunday  in  March,  to  the  last  Sunday  in  Oct 

This  bill  was  soon  repealed  in  1919  be- 
cause of  strong  objections  by  farmers. 
Farmers  objected  to  changing  their  work 
schedule  to  meet  the  change  in  time. 

However,  when  World  War  II  broke  out 
daylight  savings  time  once  again 
appeared. 

Congress  reinstated  the  law.  but  instead 
of  for  a  few  months.  Daylight  Savings 
Time  was  active  all  year  long  from  Feb. 
1942.  to  Oct  1945. 

Daylight  Savings  Time  is  now  from  the 
last  Sunday  in  April,  to  the  last  Sunday  in 
Oct 

If  you're  confused  as  what  to  do  this 
Saturday  night  before  you  go  to  bed  —  set 
your  clocks  back  one  hour  —  this  way 
you'll  be  ahead. 


News  Briefs 
PBL  sponsors 

project  at  mall 


Spring  term  scheduling 
slated  to  begin  Monday 


Last  Friday.  Oct  19.  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  opened  its  "Torture  Chamber"  at 
the  Lycoming  Mall  as  pari  of  the  Mall's 
Haunted  House  project  for  the  March  of 
Dimes- 

President  Andy  W  Wentz  is  in  charge  of 
this  PBL  event,  which  will  run  until  Tues- 
day. Oct,  31 

Tomorrow,  Phi  Beta  Lambda  will  enter 
a  float  in  the  Mummer's  Day  parade.  The 
theme  of  the  float  is  "A  Visit  to  Disney- 
land," said  Hobin  A.  Hummel,  PBL  repor- 
ter. 

Members  of  PBL  have  been  asked  to 
help  project  chairperson  Lori  M.  Beaver 
alt  day  today  at  the  end  of  Susquehanna 
Street,  for  completion  of  the  float,  said 
Hummel.  The  rain  date  for  the  parade  is 
Thursday, 

PBL  will  be  holding  a  rollerskating 
party  Thursday  from  7  to  9:30  p,m.  at  the 
Montoursville  skating  rink.  Tickets  may 
be  purchased  at  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
office  on  the  third  floor  of  Klump 
Academic  Center,  The  party  is  open  to  the 
entire  student  body,  said  Hummel 

Staff  initiates 
calculator  sale 

The  Staff  and  Advisory  Committee  of  the 
Electrical  Technology  Program  initiated 
the  purchase  of  calculators  by  the  book- 
store, said  Donald  O,  Young  Sr..  director 
of  the  Electrical/Electronics  Division, 
(EED).  of  the  College, 

Programs  on  how  to  operate  the  calcu- 
litlors  are  bemn  scl  up  hy  Ihe  EED  and  de- 
p;irlments  of  the  foilf^c,  Young  said 


Scheduled  ing  of  classes  for  the  spring  term 
will  begin  next  Monday,  according  to  Mrs. 
Kathryn  M.  Marcello,  director  of  student 
records. 

Students  should  be  prepared  to  meet 
with  their  advisors  as  soon  as  possible,  to 
assure  being  scheduled  for  all  required 
classes,  said  Mrs.  Marcello. 

Bloodmobile  to 
be  on  campus 

The  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  will  be  vis- 
iting the  College  next  week,  according  to 
Mrs,  JoAnn  R  Fremiotti.  student  activ- 
ities assistant. 

Students  can  donate  blood  in  the  Bardo 
Gym,  Wednesday.  Oct.  31  from  9:45  a.m. 
until3:45p.m. 

The  Bloodmobile  will  be  here  the  follow- 
ing day  also,  Thursday,  Nov.  1  from  9:15 
a.m,until3;15p.m 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  stressed  the  importance 
of  students  donating  blood  saying.  "The 
Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  depends  on  us  to 
make  their  quota." 

P  ate  of  yearbook  to  be 
determined  at  meeting 

There  will  be  a  meeting  in  Room  132  on 
Oct  23,  at  4  p.m  for  anyone  interested  m 
working  on  yearbook,  according  to 
Kimberly  A.  Dincher.  SGA  President, 

If  enough  students  attend  this  meeting 
there  will  be  a  yearbook  if  not,  there  will 
not  be  one, 

"In  1492,  Columbus  sailed  the  ocean 
blue."  —  a  refrain  familiar  to  every  school 
child. 

As  they  grow,  however,  it  appears  that 
the   holiday    named   after   Columbus    is 
forgotten  as  quickly  as  the  rhyme- 
Survey  conducted 

Columbus  Day  passes  mostly  unnoticed 
here  in  the  land  Columbus  is  credited  with 
discovering.  It  appears  that  the  holiday 
may  t>e  suffering  from  the  declining  inter- 
est in  patriotism. 

A  1973  survey  conducted  by  The 
Associated  Press  —  apparently  the  most 
recent  survey  conducted  —  found  that  only 
15  states  recognize  Columbus  Day  as  a 
national  holiday. 

First  celebration 

The  holiday  has  not  always  been  plagued 
by  apathy,   however.   During  the  early 


United 

Nations 

Day 

honors  peace  efforts 


Throughout  its  34  turbulent  years,  the 
United  Nations  has  been  striving  to  create 
a  world  of  peace  and  betterment  for  man- 
kind. 

Despite  any  criticism  of  the  organ- 
ization. United  Nations  Day,  October  24,  is 
still  commemorated  world-wide.  Special 
programs  mark  the  date  when  in  1945  the 
required  number  of  nations  signed  the 
United  Nations'  Charter,  thus  officially 
establishing  the  organization. 

In  the  United  States,  the  president  issues 
a  proclamation  urging  citizens,  com- 
munities, organizations  and  government 
officials  to  observe  the  day , 

Consequently,  Williamsport  mayor, 
Daniel  P.  Kirby,  has  received  the  proc- 
lamation. But.  "nothing  has  been  planned 
for  that  specific  day",  according  to  Rev 
John  N.  Mostoller.  chairman  of  the  com- 
mittee to  observe  United  Nations  Day, 

Although  a  speaker  from  the  United 
Nations  Association  could  not  be  obtained 
for  United  Nations  Day.  Rev.  Mostoller 
said  one  may  be  obtained  to  speak  at  a 
later  date. 

Programs    commemorating    United 

1900"s.  Oct.  12  was  a  day  of  parades, 
dramatic  reenactments  of  the  discovery, 
and  genera!  merriment. 

The  first  known  celebration  of  Columbus 
Day  was  in  New  York  City  in  1792  when  the 
Society  of  St.  Tammany,  or  Columbian 
Order,  celebrated  the  three  hundredth  an- 
niversary of  the  discovery  of  America  with 
a  dinner  and  elaborate  ceremonies. 
Cristofero  Colombo 
There  are  no  records  of  any  celebrations 
between  that  of  the  Tammany  Society  and 
1892.  when  October  12  was  officially  de- 
clared a  holiday  by  Congress. 

Christopher  Columbus  was  born  "Cristo- 
fero Colombo"  in  Genoa.  Italy,  sometime 
between  Aug.  26  and  Oct.  31, 1451 . 
Gained  support 
He    rapidly    became    interested    in 
maritime  exploration.  In  1492  he  sought 


Nations  Day  are  sponsored  by  the  Kiwanis 
Club,  consisting  of  area  business  and  pro- 
fessional men.  Rev.  Mostoller  explained 
that  the  club  has  been  sponsoring  the  pro- 
grams for  the  past  ten  years,  although  pro- 
grams have  not  been  held  every  year. 

He  added  that  when  a  program  has  been 
held,  it  has  had  "good  observance",  and 
"people  do  pay  attention". 

Besides  United  Nations  Day.  the  United 
Nations  Children's  Fund,  (UNICEF)  cam- 
paign also  takes  place  this  week. 

According  to  Rev.  Dr.  Alton  M.  Motter, 
executive  director  of  the  United  Churches 
of  Williamsport  and  Lycoming  County,  the 
campaign  will  be  Sunday.  October  28. 

Youth  groups  from  area  churches  will  be 
going  door-to-door  collecting  money,  he 
said.  The  United  Churches  will  be  furnish- 
ing the  materials  needed  to  stage  the 
drive,  he  added 

During  this  "International  Year  of  the 
Child"  as  proclaimed  by  the  United 
Nations.  Rev.  Motter  said  the  youth  groups 
will  be  "calling  on  citizens  to  support  the 
objectives  of  the  UNICEF  program"  and 
"to  meet  the  needs  of  children  throughout 
the  world." 

support  for  an  expedition  to  the  Sargasso 
Sea  from  the  rulers  of  Portugal.  Spain,  and 
France. 

After  several  attempts.  Ferdinand  and 
Isabella  of  Spain  gave  him  the  support  he 
needed. 

New  World  discovered 

On  Aug.  3.  1492,  he  sailed  with  three 
ships;  the  Nina.  Pinta.  and  the  Santa 
Maria. 

Early  on  the  morning  of  Oct.  12,  land 
was  sighted  and  Columbus  disembarked 
on  the  island  of  San  Salvador. 

The  New  World  had  been  discovered. 

Christopher  Columbus  is  an  integral 
part  of  our  nation's  history.  Adults  today 
may  generally  ignore  the  holiday  named 
for  him,  but  as  long  as  the  sound  of  chil- 
dren's voices  reciting  the  old  refrain  re- 
sound through  school  corridors,  he-  and  his 
deeds  —  will  not  be  forgotten. 


Trip  illustrates  ideas,  concepts 


The  group  toured   the  9th   Precinct  of 
Lower    Manhattan,    where    the    series 
"Kojak"  originates  from. 


"lUustrating  principals,  ideas,  and  con- 
cepts with  experiential  learning"  is  what 
Dr.  Richard  M.  Sahn.  social  science  in- 
structor at  the  College,  said  to  explain  why 
a  weekend  New  York  City  trip  is  included 
in  his  class  schedule. 

Dr.  Sahn  feels  that  by  actually  exper- 
iencing the  environment  they  have  been 
learning  about,  students  acquire  a  better 
understanding  of  the  nnaterial. 

Dr.  Sahn  includes  the  trip  in  two  of  his 
classes:  Urban  Sociology  and  Crimin- 
ology. Both  classes  are  taught  basing  in- 
formation on  New  York  City  because  Dr. 
Sahn  was  raised  there  and  is  familiar  with 
the  many  aspects  of  the  city  dweller's  life- 
style. 

Dr.  Sahn  has  been  including  the  trip  in 
his  class  course  for  the  past  three  years. 


Members   of  the   class   tour  the   Civic   Center  of   Lower   Manhattan.   The 
Court    House  the  group  visited  is  shown  in  the  background. 


Better  atmosphere 

In  addition  to  providing  a  "hands  on"  ex- 
perience, Dr.  Sahn  feels  that  the  trip  also 
provides  a  closer  relationship  between 
class  members  and  their  instructor.  The 
rapport  established  lends  itself  to  a  better 
learning  atmosphere  back  in  the  class- 
room, according  to  Dr  Sahn. 

Dr,  Sahn  believes  that  because  of  media 
coverage  of  violent  crimes  in  the  city, 
many  people  who  have  never  been  in  the 
city  think  violence  is  the  rule,  rather  than 
the  exception. 

As  support  for  his  belief  that  New  York 
City  is  as  safe  a  place  as  any  other.  Dr. 
Sahn  cited  the  fact  that  sociological  re- 
ports suggest  citizens  are  less  safe  in  their 
homes  than  in  the  city.  Reports  indicate 
more  violent  crimes,  such  as  homicide, 
are  committed  in  the  home  than  on  city 
streets. 


Environmental  emphasis 

Dr.  Sahn's  most  recent  excursion  to  the 
city  was  Sunday,  Oct.  7.  with  his 
Criminology  class.  On  this  trip,  the  em- 
phasis was  placed  on  environmental 
factors  which  are  conducive  to  crime. 

The  trip  included  tours  of  Bedford  Stuy- 
vesant.  one  of  the  highest  crime  areas  of 
the  city.  Coney  Island,  Lower  Manhattan, 
and  a  last-minute  tour  of  the  9th  Precinct, 
where  the  series  "Kojak"  purportedly 
originates  from. 

Red  tape  a  block 

Bedford  Stuyvesant,  second  only  to  the 
South  Bronx  in  crime  occurance,  is  an 
area  of  delapidated  row  houses,  most 
without  heat  or  hot  water. 

Dr.  Sahn  said  that  many  landlords  in 
areas  such  as  this  will  turn  on  heat  and  hot 
water  only  when  a  resident  has  filed  a 
complaint  with  the  city  and  an  inspector  is 
sent  to  investigate.  The  heat  and  water  are 
both  turned  off  again  as  soon  as  the  in- 
spector is  gone.  The  red  tape  involved  in 
lodging  a  complaint  is  usually  enough  of  a 
deterrent  so  that  the  residents  do  not  file 
often  enough  to  get  anything  done  on  a  per- 
manent basis,  he  said. 


^ 


^$r 


The  group,  from  left  to  right,  are:   H.Ronald  Neece.  David  Shultz,  Anne 
Klopp.   CharlesMcConnell.Dr.  Sahn.  and  Richard  Hitter. 


'Assembly  line  justice' 
An  atmosphere  such  as  this,  according 

to  Dr.  Sahn.  is  much  more  likely  to  pro- 
duce criminally-oriented  people  The  resi- 
dents in  such  an  area  feel  that  society  has 
done  them  an  injustice  in  ignoring  their 
plight,  and  they  feel  justified  in  getting 
whatever  they  can.  any  way  they  can. 

The  tours  through  the  Court  House,  in 
Manhattan,  and  the  9th  Precinct,  illus- 
trated the  "assembly  line  justice"  Dr, 
Sahn  teaches  about  in  his  classroom. 

Arrested  persons  are  arraigned,  and  re- 
leased on  bail  or  imprisoned  in  an  imper- 
sonal, "assembly  line"  fashion  in  the  New 
York  City  Court  system. 

According  to  Dr  Sahn.  the  atmosphere 
of  the  class  changes  following  a  trip  to  the 
city.  The  students  "respond  to  the  change 
of  scenery"  and  the  experience  "reduces 
the  alienation  with  students  among  them- 
selves, the  instructor,  and  the  material." 
he  said. 


Hitter  comments 

Richard  G,  "Rick"  Hitter,  one  of  the  stu- 
dents accompanying  Dr,  Sahn  on  th 
cent  trip,  said  that  he  was  "scared  at  first 
because  of  everything  I've  heard  about  the 
city."  The  trip  was  Hitter's  first  visit  to  the 
city. 

When  questioned  about  the  effect  the  trip 
had  on  his  outlook  towards  the  class,  Ritter 
responded,  "After  seemg  a  crime  per- 
sonally, it  helps  you  better  understand  the 
emotions  the  criminal  experiences, " 

Ritter  referred  to  a  knife  fight  which 
occured  in  the  Times  Square  area  of  the 
city  while  the  group  was  touring  the  area 

As  a  result  of  the  fight,  the  group  was 
able  to  witness,  firsthand,  the  response  of 
the  New  York  City  police  department  to  a 
crime. 

Those  accompanying  Dr.  Sahn  wei 
Ronald  Neece,  carpentry  instructor.  Anne 
L  Klopp,  Richard  G,  Ritter,  David  K. 
Schultz,  and  Charles  H,  McConnell.  all  stu- 
dents here. 


Theater  Company 

to  have  'Variety  Show' 


Theater  group   members  rehearse  the  Members  from  left  to  right  are:  Mary- 

number  "ConKider  Yourself"  for  the  Kay  Danneker.  Kim  Steele.  Michael 
Variety  show  "Anything  Goes"  scheduled  Baughman,  Larry  Fink.  Christina 
for  Nov.  20.  Weibley,  Dean  Burkholder.  and  Lea  Kry- 

mirc.  advisor. 

Transfer  representatives 
here  today  through  Friday 


Representatives  from  over  21  colleges 
will  be  here  this  week  to  talk  with  students 
interested  in  transfering  to  other  schools, 
said  Anna  Weitz,  career  development 
specialist. 

Transfer  week,  sponsored  by  the  Career 
Development  Center,  will  be  from  today 
until  Friday,  Oct.  26, 

Schools  scheduled  to  be  represented  at 
thiseventare: 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wascher 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Lane 

Williamsporl,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


Today-  I0a.m.-3p.m. 

Eastern  College 

Geneva  College 

Delaware  Valley  College 

Widener  College 

Alvernia  College 

Lock  Haven  State  College 

Shippensburg  State  College 

Kings  College 
Tuesday.  Oct.  23 -10  a.m. -3  p.m. 

Thomas  Jefferson  University  -  College 
of  Allied  Health  Services  &  Sciences 

Wednesday.  Oct.  14- lU  a.m. -3  p.m. 

Mansfield  State  College 

Thursday.  Oct.  15- 10  a.m. -3  p.m. 
Marywood  College 
Indiana  University  of  Pennsylvania 
St  Francis  College 

Friday.  Oct.  26-  lOa.m.  -3p.m. 
East  Stroudsburg  State  College 
Edinboro  State  College 
Cheyney  State  College 
Seton  Hill  College 
Millersville  State  College 
Point  Park  College  will  be  here  from  II 
a.m.  until  3p.m. 


EVERYTHING  YOUR 

COLLEGE  MUG  SHOULD  BL 

ATA  PRKE  EAR  LESS  THAN  GOLD. 


NEWLUSIRIUM 
II0WS6895 

Dale  Oct.  15  to  Oct.  26nn,e    8  3.01.  tO  4  P-Rl. 

Place      Bookstore  

JOSTEN^ 


■'Anything  Goes  ".  a  variety  show  being 
produced  by  the  Theater  Company,  is 
scheduled  for  Nov,  20.  according  to  Mrs. 
Lea  Frymire,  advisor. 

The  production  will  be  a  "show  involving 
variety,  featuring  members  of  the  admin- 
istration, faculty,  and  the  student  body". 
said  Mrs  Frymire. 

The  show  will  feature  numbers  from 
such  Broadway  productions  as  "Pippin". 
"Chorus  Line",  "Company",  "Oliver", 
and  "South  Pacific",  said  Mrs.  Frymire. 

Fire  drill 
held  here 

An  unannounced  fire  drill  was  held  last 
Wednesday  in  observance  of  National  Fire 
Prevention  Week  according  to  Lawrence 
P,  Smeak,  head  of  Security  The  drill  was 
heldat9:15a  m 

Unannounced  drills  were  held  in  build- 
ings across  the  campus.  There  were  drills 
held  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center, 
Cromar  Building,  the  Shop  building,  and 
the  Administration  Building. 

Several  inspections  were  made  of  the 
buildings  for  fire  safety.  A  list  of  possible 
improvements  will  be  sent  later.  Smeak 
said. 

Smeak  added  that  no  fire  drills  are  an- 
nounced. He  said  that  the  Firemen  just 
come  in,  pull  the  alarm,  conduct  the  drill 
and  leave. 

Students  cater 
four  events 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  organization 
will  hold  four  catering  events  within  a 
week,  according  to  Ann  R,  Miglio,  super- 

The  group  will  serve  meals  this  Satur- 
day, next  Monday.  Wednesday,  and  Fri- 
day. They  will  prepare  meals  ranging 
from  buffets  to  Chinese  dinners,  Mrs. 
Miglio  said. 

Mrs.  Miglio  noted  that  some  of  the  meals 
will  be  served  on-campus  and  a  couple 
would  be  off-campus  She  also  said  the 
group  would  be  serving  trustees  of  sur- 
rounding colleges  at  one  of  the  events 


Banqi 


One  of  the  highlights  of  the  show  will  be 
the  appearance  of  Dean  Edmond  Watters 
as  Mark  Twain,  according  to  Mrs. 
Frymire 

Also  planned  for  the  show  is  a  series  of 
numbers  from  "Oliver"  performed  by  the 
secretaries  from  the  college  offices. 

Other  performances  will  include  play  ex- 
cerpts, singing,  dancing,  and  a  variety  of 
other  displays  of  talent. 

The  show  is  scheduled  to  begin  at  8  p.m. 
in  the  auditorium  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  A  donation  of  $1  is  asked  of 
students,  according  to  Mrs.  Frymire 

[uet  held 
for  hygienists 

A  recognition  banquet  was  field  Sunday, 
Oct,  7,  at  ttie  Hillside  Restaurant  to  ac- 
knowledge the  completion  of  one  academic 
year  by  students  in  the  Dental  Hygiene 
Program,  said  Mrs.  Sandra  S.  Luks,  pro- 
gram coordinator- 

The  keynote  address,  entitled  "Pro- 
fessional Growth  Doesn't  Stop  Here,"  was 
given  by  Mr.  Jack  Cain,  director  of  per- 
sonnel of  the  Williamsporl  Hospital.  Add- 
itional remarks  were  made  by  Dr.  William 
H.  Feddersen.  college  president,  and  Miss 
Rae  Ann  Gordner,  instructor  of  dental 
hygiene. 

Caps  and  ribbons  were  presented  by 
Mrs.  Davie  J.  Nestarick  and  Mrs.  Robin 
Sylvis,  instructor  of  dental  hygiene. 

After  completing  one  more  academic 
year  and  passing  licensing  examinations, 
these  students  will  be  dental  hygienists. 

Federal  grant  approved 
for  electronics  division 

An  $80,000  federal  grant  was  approved 
for  the  1979-80  academic  year  for  the  Elec- 
trical/Electronics Division,  (EED),  of  the 
College.  The  grant  will  be  used  to  expand 
and  upgrade  the  motor  control  program  of 
the  EED,  said  Donald  0.  Young  Sr  direc- 
tor of  the  EED. 

The  grant  allows  the  College  to  offer  a 
better  program  to  the  electrical  and 
electronics  students.  Young  explained. 

The  grant  also  establishes  more  con- 
tinuing education  programs  for  local  in- 
dustries, said  Young. 


DELIVERANCE  I 

6  iiir.  Fourth  street  f 

III                   (near  Market  Street)  I 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 1 

III     Big  reductions  on  running  shoes  for  | 

ill  men  and  women.  Shoes  by  Nike,  1 

ill  Brooks,   Etonic,   New  Balence  and  | 

ill  Saucony  at  savings  from  $4.95  to  1 

ill  $10.95.  I 

RUNNER'S  SALE 

10%  to  50%  off  shorts  and  tops  for  | 

men  and  women.  Specials  on  all-  i 

weather    training    suits    by    Frank  I 

Shorter,  Bill  Rodgers,  Sub-4.  [ 

Sale  ends  Saturday,  October  27 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHimiiii Ill 


lllillllllNlllllllllill= 


SPORTS 


Coach  enters 
eleventh  year 

Max  G  Wasson  is  entering  his  eleventh 
year  as  wrestling  coach  at  the  college  In 
the  previous  ten  years  his  teams  have 
compiled  a  dual  meet  record  of  72-31-2 
while  never  having  a  losing  season.  They 
have  also  won  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  Conference 
(EPCCAC)  title  six  times  during  that 
period. 

Coach  Wasson  has  lived  in  Williamsport 
all  his  life.  After  graduating  from 
Williamsport  High  School  in  1957,  he  went 
on  to  earn  a  degree  in  physical  education 
from  Lock  Haven  State  College  graduating 
inl%l. 

The  40-year-old  Wasson  is  presently 
employed  as  the  audio-visual  director  at 
Lycoming  Valley  Junior  High  School  a 
position  he  has  held  for  five  years. 

Coach  Wasson  lives  in  Williamsport  with 
his  wife  and  two  sons. 

He  said  he  is  happy  with  his  position  as  a 
coach  here  He  adds  that  this  year's  team 
is  promising  with  five  starters  returning. 
He  also  thinks  that  this  year's  schedule  is 
possibly  the  college's  best  ever.  The  first 
match  this  year  will  be  Nov.  16,  at  the 
Corning  Community  College. 

Cross-country  team  to 
have  invitational  meet 

The  cross-country  match  which  was  to 
be  held  Tuesday,  Oct.  16  was  cancelled  due 
to  an  upcoming  invitational  meet. 

According  to  cross-country  coach  Mr. 
David  Houseknecht,  the  invitational  meet 
will  be  held  at  Bucks  County  Community 
College,  Oct.  27. 


Max  G.  Wasson 


Hockey  team 
loses  game 

The  women's  field  hockey  team  dropped 
their  record  to  1-4  when  they  were  defeated 
Oct.  9  by  Montgomery  County  Community 
College.  Due  to  muddy  and  wet  field 
conditions,  the  officials  called  the  game 
with  11  minutes  left  to  play.  The  score 
ended  5-1 

Eva  J  Benner  (CF),  a  second  year,  DH 
student  from  East  Juniata,  scored  the 
Wildcats  only  goal  early  m  the  second 
half.  Jerri  L.  Womeldorf.  goalie  for  the 
team,  had  10  saves  against  the  opponents. 
Three  of  Montgomery's  players  combined 
for  their  five  goals  scored. 

The  team  members  of  both  squads  said 
the  game  was  a  lot  of  fun,  considering 
there  were  many  falls,  and  players  had  a 
rough  time  staying  on  their  feet. 

Friday  slates  the  conclusion  of  the 
team's  season,  except  for  a  postponement 
against  Northampton,  which  has  not  yet 
been  rescheduled.  The  team's  coach, 
Marti  Bryant,  staled  that  the  girls  looked 
exceptionally  good,  and  she  is  very  proud 
of  them. 

The  next  game  was  to  have  been  played 
Friday,  Oct.  12,  at  Bucks  County  Commun- 
ity College. 


IM  football  playoffs 
'just  around  corner' 


By  Brian  Rippey 
Staff  Writer 

Intramural  football  playoffs  are  just 
around  the  corner  with  the  two  top  spots  in 
Division  A  still  up  for  grabs. 

Saw  Dusters  (4-0)  lead  Wild  Bunch  (3-1) 
by  one  game  with  LaRue's  Jocks  (2-1 1 
right  behind.  LaRue's  Jocks  have  a  game 
remaining  with  Saw  Dusters  that  would 
tighten  up  the  division  race  considerably 
should  the  unbeaten  Saw  Dusters  fall 
The  advantage 

Wild  Bunch  appears  to  have  a  schedule 
advantage  In  their  two  remaining  games, 
they  are  to  meet  the  Steelers  (0-2-1)  and 
Just  Head  (1-1-1). 

In  Division  B,  Sir  Timber  and  Screaming 
Gypsy  Bandits,  both  3-0,  have  playoff  spots 
wrapped  up.  The  two  teams  met 
Wednesday,  Oct.  10,  but  the  game  was 
called  due  to  darkness  before  the  end  of  the 
first  half. 

The  contest  will  not  be  made  up  since 
both  teams  have  playoff  hcnh^  ilinclicd 
according  tu  Thom.i-.  (;    (Irav    inti  .nnur.il 


Winners  lo  meet 

The  top  team  in  Division  A  will  face  the 
runner-up  in  Division  B,  while  the  division 
B  champion  will  meet  the  second  place 
finisher  in  Division  A.  The  winners  will 
meet  for  the  championship.  Gray  added 

Gray  also  said  plaques  will  be  awarded 
to  the  winning  team  instead  of  trophies, 
such  as  were  awarded  in  previous  years. 

This  year's  schedule  has  been  thwarted 
due  to  rain  and  the  need  to  schedule  late 
games  because  of  the  field  hockey  team 
Gray  noted  the  problem  should  end  since 
the  field  hockey  season  is  over 

Tryouts  slated 
for  basketball 

A  meeting  will  be  held  for  all  female 
students  who  are  interested  in  trying  out 
for  the  women's  basketball  team 

According  to  the  coach  Mrs.  Kathy 
Revello.  the  meeting  is  slated  for  Oct  25, 
jUpm 

llir  nUTliiiK  IS  lo  be  held  in  the  hcallli 
riassnicim  ,in  the  lust  floor  of  Bardo  U\  m 


New  coach 
heads  varsity 
basketball 

Larry  J  Manikowski  has  been  hired  as 
the  new  men's  varsity  basketball  coach 
Originally  from  Blossberg,  Pa  ,  he  attend- 
ed North  Penn  High  School,  graduating  in 
1970. 

Manikowski  attended  Fort  Lauderdale 
University,  where  he  played  basketball 
and  baseball.  He  graduated  in  1974  with  a 
degree  in  business  administration 

Before  coming  here,  Manikowski 
pitched  in  the  Kansas  City  Royals  baseball 
organization.  He  then  went  on  to  become 
an  assistant  basketball  coach  at  his  alma 
mater,  and  then  to  Bishop  Neumann  High 
School.  At  Neumann  he  coached  the  girl's 
basketball  team.  Finally,  he  went  to  Mans- 
field State  College  as  the  pitching  and 
catching  coach  for  the  baseball  team 
which  finished  third  in  the  nation 

Manikowski  now  resides  in  Mon- 
toursville  with  his  wife  Dianne  He  is 
employed  as  a  business  administration 
teacher  at  the  Williamsport  School  of  Com- 
merce. His  hobbies  include  fly  fishing  and 
tying  his  own  flies. 

After  only  a  few  practices,  Manikowski 
could  not  give  an  outlook  on  the  rest  of  the 
season  He  did  say  "  we  should  be  com- 
petitive "He  plans  to  use  a  man-toman 
defense,  which  should  provide  some 
exciting  basketball  action  this  year. 

Hockey  game  cancelled 
due  to  inclement  weather 

Due  to  inclement  weather,  two  women's 
field  hockey  games  were  cancelled. 

They  were  to  be  played  Oct  5,  and  Oct. 
12.  Neither  of  the  games  have  tieen 
rescheduled,  according  to  Marti  Bryant, 
field  hockey  coach  and  physical  plant  sec- 
retary. 

The  games  cancelled  were  against 
Northampton  and  Bucks  County  Com- 
munityColleges. 

X-country  team 
wins  meet  24-34 

The  men's  cross-country  team  won  their 
meet  against  Delaware  County  Commun- 
ity College,  held  Saturday,  Oct.  6,  at  White 
Deer  Golf  course  The  score  was  Delaware 
.34.  Williamsport,  24 

Placing  in  that  meet  were  Bob  W.  John- 
son, (EWi:  Len  R.  Maguire,  Jr.,  iCB); 
Richard  J.  Robinson,  (BM(;  and  William 
W.  Hickey,  (CS). 


Larry  J.  Manikowski 


Meeting  slated 
for  wrestlers 

The  first  practice  for  all  those  interested 
in  joining  the  wrestling  team  will  be 
Monday,  Oct  29,  at  4  p  m  in  the  gym,  ac- 
cording to  Harry  Specht. 

Anyone  who  did  not  attend  the  organiza- 
tional meeting  may  still  join  the  team  by 
attending  the  first  practice  Each  wrestler 
will  be  expected  to  supply  his  own  wres- 
tling gear  for  practices,  Specht  said 

The  first  match  of  the  year  will  be  Fri- 
day, Oct  16,  at  the  Corning  Community 
College. 


IM  wrestling  entries 
remain  open  to  students 

Entries  are  still  open  for  all  students 
who  are  interested  in  intramural  wrest- 
ling, according  to  Thomas  G  Gray, 
assistant  professor  of  physical  education 

Those  who  interested  are  to  sign  up  at 
the  IM  bulletin  board,  first  floor  of  Bardo 
Gym,  said  Gray 

The  process  of  single  elimination  will  be 
used  and  awards  will  be  presented  to  the 
champions  and  runners  up,  he  said. 


■K     Bulletin  Board* 

CROSS  COUNTRY 

Saturday.  Cross  Country-Bucks  CCC.  InvitationalA,  12  noon. 

TRIP 
Sunday,  Outing  Club  Canoe  Trip. 

PARADE 
Thursday,  Mummers  Day  Parade,  South  Williamsport,  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
Float. 

MOVIE 
"Piranha",  "Invasion  of  the  Body  .Snalchers"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial. 
Chapter  7,  7;30  p  m  tonight,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  with  stu- 
dent ID. 

MEETINGS 
Wednesday,  Phi  Beta  Lambda,  3  45  pm  ,  Room  302,  Klump  Academic 
Center.  .  . 
Thursday,  ICC,  4  pm.  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Saturday,  Organizational  for  TOTWATCH  parents,  10  a.m.,  Cafeteria,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Tomorrow,  organizational  for  Williamsport  Area  Community  College  year- 
book 4  pm  ,  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center  Anyone  interested  in  seeing  a 
79-80  yearbook  must  attend  this  meeting 

NO  MEETINGS 
No  .Student  Leadership  Conferences  until  further  notice. 

NOTICE 
Cinema  Club  is  soliciting  new  members  Meetings  are  held  every  Monday,  at 
r,  4r>  p  m  .  Room  317,  in  Klump  Academic  Center 


Uiidcra^c  <iriiikiii«^ 


iCii 


..I  It, 


Proitlom  Drinker 

The  young  person  who  becomes  a 
problematic  drinker  might  have  poor 
family  relationships,  poor  socializing 
skills,  lack  of  emotional  support,  and 
might  desire  peer  acceptance,  according 
to  Ms,  Haberman, 

"The  problem  drinker  is  going  to  get  in 
trouble  when  he  drinks,"  Ms.  Haberman 
said.  "They  become  brash,  insulting,  lose 
friends,  and  get  in  trouble  with  the  law  " 

Alcoholism  is  a  progressive  disease  with 
affects  the  young  person  may  not  be  aware 
of  until  he  experiences  them  over  a  period 
of  time,  she  said. 

Less  experience 
"It  is  harder  for  a  young  person  to  ex- 
perience the  losses  incurred  by  drinking  -- 
family,  jobs,  property  damage."  she  said. 
"They  haven't  incurred  these  losses  yet." 

The  effects  of  alcohol  abuse  are  more 
readily  apparent  physically  for  the  young 
drinker,  she  said. 

Multiple  effect 

"Tolerence  occurs  with  experience." 
Ms  Haberman  said  "The  younger  drinker 
has  less  experience  and  feels  the  full 
effects.  They  have  less  control  over  them- 
selves, have  accidents  injuring 
themselves.  They  also  have  more  traffic 
accidents." 

Mixing  with  drugs 

She  said  many  young  people  use  a  com- 
bination of  drugs  and  alcohol  which  causes 
a  serious  multiple  effect 

"Mixing  three  drinks  and  three  downers 
would  seem  equal  the  effects  of  six,  but  it 
has  a  multiple  effect  equaling  the  effects  of 
nine,"  she  emphasized.  "There  is  a 
greater  likelihood  of  an  overdose, ' ' 

Ms.  Haberman  added  that  the  "majority 
of  underage  drinkers  will  not  develop 
problems,  but  if  they  are  drinking  they  are 
not  doing  other  things  which  might  be 
more  beneficial.  ' 


S ME  goes 
on  field  trip 

The  Student  Society  of  Manufacturing 
and  Engineering  (SME)  traveled  to  GTE 
Sylvania  of  Towanda  Monday.  Oct.  8 

for  their  monthly  event. 

The  group,  consisting  of  45  to  50  SME 
members,  and  advisor  Chalmer  C.  Van 
Horn,  ate  dinner  at  6  p.m.  before  depart- 
ing 

Upon  arrival  in  Towanda,  the  students 
divided  into  four  groups.  Each  group  had  a 
half-hour  lecture  and  a  two-hour  tour  of  the 
plant,  according  to  Keith  D,  Drumheller, 
SME  member. 

Michael  J.  Silk.  Inter  Club  Council  ( ICC ) 
representative  for  SME.  said  he  learned 
that  GTE  makes  enough  wire  in  two  to 
three  months  to  go  to  the  moon  and  back, 
Silk  added  that  these  wires  are  approx- 
imately a  quarter  the  size  of  a  human  hair, 
and  must  be  painted  gold  for  visibility.  The 
wires  are  used  in  welding  electrodes,  tele- 
visions and  light  bulbs.  Silk  said. 


Computers 


ICmlmimlfromPagcll 
Computer  that  programs  the  data  The 
IBM  computer  sends  it  back  to  the  College, 
he  explained  This  is  a  faster  method  of 
programming  than  the  system  the 
students  are  using  at  this  time,  he  said 

"1  have  been  checking  on  the  progress  of 
the  computer  repair  about  twice  a  day." 
said  Ward  As  soon  as  the  IBM  is  working 
again,  the  students  who  are  unhappy  about 
the  current  situation  will  be  able  to  use  the 
system  that  they  would  normally  use, 
Ward  said. 


There  are  six  sides  to  a  snowflake. 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 


Restauiant/Snack  Bar 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents 


Tonight 


Klump  Academic  Center 
7:30  p.m.  $1.00 


^1 


Horror  Double-Bill 


^ 


George  Romero's: 
Night  of  the  Living  Dead 

and 
Rabid 


■■H 

^^T^^^^^Smff^^S^ 

^^^^^^^^  \il''S'  ''^'  it'      '''-F          "^         ■'~y^'''''^^*^^^^^S&r^f^^S^^ 

^^^1^-  .         '              , ,  i^^^^^^^^^^^K^^^^^Mt  '^  Oh^lSil 

o 

hat  all  0 
ould  wall 

irly  Chri 
ill  permi 
lat   Enlig 
demons 
id, those 
i  brough 
e    throuf 

leld  a   fe 
that  coin 
then  thai 
er,  which 
year  Am 

S 

one  dav  I 
i  in  hell  c 

om  the  ei 
T  ideas  st 
h  the  Ore 
t  ideas  of 
side.  Inste; 
away  am 
e    to    tim 

uid  festival 
Druids  h 
f  Samhain 
ve.  It  was 
'al  of  wint 
irk  time  of 

^ 

the 
soul: 

is  fr 
olde 

Wit 
icien 
asta; 
eked 

tim 

I)n 

1  the 
■gilo 
edE 
arri\ 
he  da 

c/i 

ind 
hile 

iye 
t  tu 

tair 
e  V 
low 
the 
edt 

Day.  It  \ 
demons  ; 
earth  aga 
This  id 
times,  wl 
the  relig 
ment,  thi 
supposed 
were  jus 
again    fr 
history 

In   Bri 
called  th 
with  Hal 
greeted 
consider 

Q 

en 

"^ 

4>d 

J-> 

Si    ?    -ss    s      -g-sg      -tc 

s 

•  • 

o 

By  Brad  English 
Staff  Writer 

tober  31,  Halloween;  that  night  wh 

ir  is  cold  and  crackling,  filled  with  t 

ric  tension  of  forgotten  witchcraft 

at  night  when  old  stories  of  the  pi 

irought  to  light  again. 

at  night   when  modern,  enlighten 

allow  themselves  to  believe  in  gho: 

:reatures  of  the  darkness 

at  night  when  the  dead  of  the  ag 

;  their  graves  to  walk. 

All  Hallows  Eve 
d  how   many   of   these  beliefs  a 
rstitions  are  based  in  fact?  Where 
deas  and  symbols  come  from?  Wht 
le  answers  lie? 
thepast- 

e  day  was  once  known  as  All  Hallov 
or  Hallowed  Eve,  the  eve  of  All  Sain 

1*".^ 

o"SS|H£-gHS    i|;f=es 

e 

£-sSegi!         55-§        u 

a: 

Page  2  SPOOKLIGHT  Oct  29.1979 


^^ 


VIEW  Fh   I   N  T 


Whaddya'  Say. . . 


what  do  you  want  to  be 
for  Halloween  and  why? 


By  John  F   Zelewicz  and  Brian  M    Rippey 
ofThe  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


Eddie  Chilson  I   want    to   be   a  Stacy  Dyabeiko    -  I  m  going  to  be 

clown,  an  angel  becouse  my  mom  is  making 

me  o  costume 

Editoriol 

That  time  of  year 

Well,  it's  thot  time  of  year  again  when  hundreds  of  thousands  ot 
people  get  oil  dressed  up  and  toke  their  favorite  guns  and  hike  into 
thewilde.ness 

And  of  course,  there  will  be  the  usual  hunting  "Occidents." 

There  is  obsolutely  no  need  or  reason  for  these  "accidents.  "  There  is 
only  carelessness  or  downright  stupidity. 

Everyone  who  hunts  is  supposed  to  have  a  working  knowledge  of 
fireorm  safety  ond  woodsmonship.  However,  this  knowledge  some- 
how seems  to  leave  when  a  crackling  leaf  or  snapping  twig  is  heard 
out  there. 

Lost  yeor,  for  the  first  time  m  the  history  of  Pennsylvania's  archery 
seoson.  o  bowhunter  was  killed  by  a  careless  bowhunter. 

The  hunter  who  shot  obviously  did  not  take  the  time  necessary  to 
fully  determine  whot  it  was  he  was  shooting  at. 

This  happens  oil  too  many  times.  One  time  is  too  mony,  whether 
with  a  bow  or  a  gun. 

Let's  all  toke  the  time  to  find  out  what  it  is  we  are  shooting  at.  Make 
sure  it  is  o  gome  animal  instead  of  another  hunter 

The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Ploce  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  publiihed  weekly  throughout  the  academic  year. 

except  for  oiiiciai  college  vacations,  hy  journalism 

and  other  interested  students   Of/ice 

Room  7.  K/umpAcodemic  Center  fbosemenf)   Telephone  (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221 

Member,  Columbio  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member.  Pennsylvonia  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

Manoging  Editor  MoMie  Zelevi/ici 

Compus  Editor  jon  L    Daniel 

Aisoeiote  Campus  Editor  John  f   Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor  Jocque'rne  J   Cocdene 

Photogroptiy  Ed. tor  Dwight  E   Sehmuch 

Senior  Stotf  Reporter  Srod  £   EngJish 

Reporters    Robert  J    Alien,  Donna  L     Cinler     Thereso  J    MacKenzie    John  L     Rickerl. 

Brian  M    Rippey    Leslie  M  Rogen     Trudy  M     Shively    Cindy  M     Snook     Kimberly  A 
Sfeele  lorry  G   Slee/e   Robert  E    rhomos   Chnstmo  N   Weibley 

Staff  Artists Ceroid  J.  Rexer,  Michael  Lekites 

Contributing  Reporter  GoilM    Thompion 

StoH  Assislont  Timothy  A    Toth 

Produci.on  teom  this  f.iue  Bfod  English  Supervisor;  John  L.  Rickerl.  Chnstma  N 
Weiblev    lorrvG    Slt-t-lo    andCmdyM    S.-ook 


Burgess  Tomlinson  -     I  want  to  be  o  Todd     Young     —     I     wont     to 

skeleton  because  I  like  bones.  Superman  because  I  like  him. 

Editorial 

Tricks  not  funny 

'Trick  or  Treat ',  these  words  were  once  spoken  to  signify  that  if  a 
treot  was  not  given  a  trick  would  be  played  by  a  youngster,  against 
the  person  they  were  asking  for  the  treat 

However,  it  is  now  the  children  who  ore  tricked  and  often  very 
cruelly. 

If  you  have  children,  or  know  some  one  who  has,  tell  them  to  be  on 
the  alert. 

Tell  the  child  not  to  eat  any  treats  until  they  are  firsi  looked  over  by 
an  adult. 

All  unwrapped  candy  should  be  thrown  out  and  all  fruit  should  be 
carefully  inspected  for  foreign  objects. 

Moke  this  a  fun  and  safe  Halloween. 

From  My  Desk 

Holiday  Changes 

By  Brian  M.  Rippey 
Staff  Writer 

A  few  years  back,  when  we  were  still  considered  youngsters,  most 
of  us  enjoyed  trick  or  treating.  Throwing  corn,  soaping  windows,  ring- 
ing door  bells  and  running,   .    oil  bring  bock  memories. 

These  things  ore  tolerable  but  it  is  the  throwing  of  eggs,  slashing  of 
tires,  spray  painting  of  houses  ond  other  crude  things  that  have  given 
Halloween  o  bad  name. 

Thing  of  past? 

The  few  people  who  indulge  in  these  acts  hove  almost  made  trick  or 
treating  a  thing  of  the  past. 

Others  who  olso  hove  helped  dimmish  the  fun  of  Holloween  ore 
those  who  put  rozor  blades  in  apples  or  poison  candy.  Maybe  this  is  a 
way  to  get  even  with  the  people  who  bent  the  antenna  on  the  car  or 
placed  o  bucket  of  manure  aflame  on  their  doorstep. 

Or  perhaps  these  few  people  just  don  t  want  to  be  bothered  and 
they  forget  what  it  meant  to  them  to  go  home  and  have  their  mouth 
water  while  looking  at  o  full  bog  of  goodies, 
It's  tragic 

In  either  cose,  it's  tragic  to  see  this  holiday  decline  and  youngsters 
get  sick  ond  even  die.  If  people  would  only  look  back  and  think  of  oil 
the  good  times  they  had  around  Halloween,  they  might  see  things  in  a 
different  light. 

This  year,  when  the  cute,  smiling  kids  come  to  your  door  dressed  as 
their  hero  or  ghosts:  Think. 

Remember  when  you  were  in  those  costumes' 


WACC  Cinema  Club's 


Oct  29.1979  SPOOKLIGHT  Page  3 


HALLOWEEN 


HORRORS 


Oct.  29  ONLY! 

From  the  director  of  "The  Brood"  and 
"They  Came  From  Within"   .  .  .   David 
Cronenburg's  vision   of     epidemic 
horror. 


Yoa  can't  trust  your  motber 

.^your  best  friend 
.^the  neighbor  next  door 

one  minute  ^ 

they're 
perfectly 
normal,     ' 

ITHENEXT... 

.   I  pngritdoesnthappentoyonl 


MARILYN  CHAMBERS         .  „..^„„,n.,n.„o. 


Oct.  31  ONLY! 

Poe  taken  to  the  limit  ...  a  terror- 
izing international  shocker! 

Tbe  Newest  Ed^ar  Allai>  Poe 
Horror-Suspci>se  TT^riller 


Klump  Academic  Center 
7:30  p.m.  $1.00 


Oct.  29  and  Oct.  31 

From  the  director  of  "Dawn  of  the 
Dead"--the  first  of  the  "Living  Dead 
Series "  .  .  .  George  Romero's  horrific 
masterpiece. 

"MORE  TERRIFYING  THAN 
HITCHCOCK'S  'PSYCHO!" 

In  IMIGE  TEN  Production 


[ARRSn 
^TURE 
'PUNGEON 


DISIRIBUIEO  BY  GROUP  1 
,»  BLAZING  COLOR    [Rj    -^^ 


Patrons  under  17  MUST 

be  accompanied  by 

an  adult. 

This  policy 

will  be 

strictly  enforced! 


Page  4  SPOOKLIGHT 

Architecture  club  plans 
skatinfj;  party  Thursday 

The  studeni  chapter  of  the  Constructjon 
Specifications  Institute  is  selling  tickets 
for  a  roller  skating  party  to  be  held  at 
Great  Skate  in  Monloursville.  Thursday 
night,  according  to  Miss  Jean  May.  club 
president. 

Tickets  may  be  obtained  in  the  architec- 
tural lab  in  Unit  6  or  from  any  club 
member  Tickets  are  $1  in  advance  and 
$1 ,25  at  the  door,  according  to  Miss  May 

Students  cater 
three  events 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  students  have 
chosen  chairmen  for  the  three  events  they 
will  cater  this  week,  according  to  Mrs.  Ann 
KMiglio.  club  supervisor 

Today  at  noon.  Kimberly  Fox  and  Jamie 
L,  Gardner  will  be  in  charge  when  Ihe 
group  serves  a  continuing  education  lunch- 
eon with  Dr  Russell  C,  Mauch  as  the 
special  guest. 

Those  working  with  the  Bloodmobile  wiH 
be  served  Wednesday  and  Thursday, 
according  to  Mrs  Miglio 

Richard  J  Burick  will  be  chairman 
Wednesday  and  Bernard  H  Halvorsen  Jr 
will  be  in  charge  Thursday.  Mrs,  Miglio 
added 

Retired  inslruelor  plans 
Northwest  prospeetiiif^ 

Bernard  C.  Williams,  a  retired 
welding  instructor  for  the  College,  is 
attending  courses  in  mining,  claims- 
staking  and  mapmaking  in  Blaine. 
Washington,  according  to  Dr,  Ed- 
mond  A,  Watters  III. 

Williams  is  preparing  to  go  pros- 
pecting soon  in  the  Northwest  terri- 
tory of  Washmgton.  He  had  been  an 
instructor  for  the  College  for  2fi 
years 

Holiday  buying 
tips  available 

With  Christmas  shopping  due  much  loo 
soon,  the  least  you  can  do  is  be  prepared. 
The  federal  government's  Consumer 
Information  Center  can  help  with  that 
preparation. 

The  Center  works  with  other  federal 
agencies  to  promote  the  development  and 
distribution  of  consumer  information.  And 
its  catalog  is  designed  to  help  you  make  in- 
formed choices  when  you  shop. 

The  catalog  is  free.  To  obtain  a  copy, 
mail  a  postcard  to  the  Consumer  Infor- 
mation Center,  Pueblo.  Col  .  B1009. 


PBL  leaders 
at  conference 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBLi  president. 
Andy  W  Wenlz.  and  advisor.  Paul  W 
Goldfeder.  will  attend  a  Pennsylvania 
regional  Future  Busmess  Leaders  of 
America  '  FBLA )  conference  Wednesday 
in  the  Shamokin  High  School 

Goldfeder  said  about  eight  high  schools 
will  be  represented  from  central  Pennsyl- 
vania Wentz  added  that  this  will  include 
about  200  FBLA  members 

FBLA  is  the  high  school  level  organ- 
ization for  busmess-minded  students;  Phi 
Beta  Lambda  is  on  the  college  level,  said 
Wenlz 

Four  separate  workshops  will  be  held 
dealing  with  the  purposes  of  PBL  and  the 
setting  and  reaching  of  goals  in  an  organ- 
ization. 

The  workshops  will  run  from  about  .1 
p.m.  to9p.m  .according  to  Wentz, 


Spring  scheduling  begins, 
early  enrollment  advised 


B>  Trudy  Shr 
Staff  Writer 

Scheduling  for  the  spring  term  begins  to- 
day 

Students  planning  to  attend  classes  next 
semester  must  meet  with  their  advisors  as 
soon  as  possible  to  prepare  their  schedule 
according  to  Mrs.  Kathryn  M,  Marcello. 
director  of  student  records 

"It  IS  important  you  check  your 
schedules  for  time  conflicts."  said  Mrs. 
Marcello,  "to  avoid  running  into  other 
classes," 

Students  should  be  aware  that  they  may 
not  enroll  for  more  than  18  credit  hours 
without  special  permission  from  the 
appropriate  division  director,  she  added 

A  student  must  have  earned  either  a  3,0 
cumulative  average  or  a  3  0  average  for 
the  previous  semester  in  order  to  qualify  to 
take  a  course  overload,  said  the  director. 

"If  a  student  enrolls  for  more  than  18 
credits,  that  student  must  pay  extra  for 


ng  over  the  specification  booklet  are  from  left.  Joseph  T.  O'Neill. 
Larry  L.  Reber,  and  Norman  L.  Hager.  plumbing  dnd  heating  students.  Holding 
spec  book  is  Frank  Really,  assistant  professor  of  building  technologies.  They 
are  part  of  the  crew  renovating  the  first  floor  mens  room.. 


NANCY'S  PLACE      322  9010 1 

Monday  thru  Wednesday  9  to  1 1 
Thursday  thru  Saturday  11  to  10        |:| 

Subs  D  Pizzas  D  Beverage 


redil  hour  over  the  normal  full  load 
of  18."  she  said. 

Students  who  schedule  classes  and  pay 
their  tuition  first  will  be  the  students  to  get 
those  selected  classes  first,  she  added 

"It  is  also  important  for  students  to 
know  that  when  they  schedule  for  a  class 
already  overloaded,  they  will  automatical- 
ly be  rescheduled  for  another  class."  she 
pointed  out  This  rescheduling  is  done 
totally  by  computer. 

Spring  scheduling  will  continue  today 
through  Friday,  Nov.  16.  It  is  important  for 
students  to  register  for  classes  early  to 
assure  a  reservation  in  required  courses, 
Mrs.  Marcello  advised. 

The  "Spring  1980  Schedule  of  Classes"  is 
available  through  advisors,  according  to 
Mrs  Marcello  For  more  information  or  to 
prepare  the  schedule,  students  should 
contact  advisors  to  arrange  an  appoint- 
ment, she  said. 

Career  center 
offers  course 

The  staff  of  the  Career  Development 
Center  will  teach  a  one-credit,  eight-week 
course  on  career  exploration,  according  to 
Anna  Weitz,  career  development  special- 
ist. 

The  course  will  explore  the  world  of 
work  as  it  relates  to  student's  values, 
interests  and  abilities,  she  said. 

Students  will  investigate  specific 
educational  and  occupational  alternatives 
and  learn  the  steps  in  making  a  career 
decision,  she  added. 

She  said  the  course  will  be  conducted 
Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  from  9:30  a.m.  to 
11  a.m. 

Anyone  interested  in  taking  this  course 
may  contact  the  career  development 
specialists. 

Bloodmobile 
visits  college 

The  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  will  be  here 
Wednesday.  Oct.  31  and  Thursday.  Nov.  1, 
according  to  the  Student  Activities  Office 
and  the  Student  Government  Association. 

The  Bloodmobile  will  be  in  the  Bardo 
Gym  on  Wednesday  from  9:45  am  until 
3  45  pm  The  hours  for  Thursday  will  be 
from  9: 15  am  until  3: 15  pm. 

Students  needing  pledge  cards, 
schedules,  or  17-year-old  permission  slips 
can  obtain  them  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center's  Communication  Center. 

"The  College  is  the  largest  doner  stop  in 
this  area  and  if  we  don't  reach  our  600  pmt 
goal,  the  area  will  be  short."  said  Mrs,  Jo 
Ann  Fremiotti.  student  activities  assis- 
tant 


Land        14  ^'  Waiow  Street 
of       WilUamspon,  PA  1 7701 
^^  (717)322-6712 

Waterbeds  Finest  Selection  of 
Jewelry  rolling;  papers  and 
Novelties     smoking  accessories 


HOW  TO 

GET  BETTER 

MILEAGE  FROM 

YOUR  CAR... 


Television  review 


Buck  is  back  again 


By  Larry  Steele 
StaH  Writer 

?,  "Star  Wars"  or  even  the  television  show, 
f  to  oppreciote  NBC's  latest  attempt 


If  you  enjoyed  the  movie, 
"Battlestor  Galactico  .  you  on 
for  an  oction  show. 

The  show.  "Buck  Rogers  in  the  25th  Century",  is  one  show  I  am  not 
going  to  miss  for  a  while. 

Everyone  has  heard  of  the  old  Buck  Rogers,  the  space  troveler  who 
was  popular  years  ago.  The  new  Buck  Rogers  is  not  so  different. 
Frozen  in  travels 

Buck  was  an  astronaut  for  the  United  Stotes  in  the  1980s.  By  some 
freak  of  space,  he  wos  frozen  in  his  original  form  on  one  of  his  travels. 
When  he  was  found  and  thawed  out  from  his  deep  freeze,  he  was 
informed  that  he  was  now  living  in  the  future. 

Over  500  years  in  the  future,  that  is. 

This  show  is  refreshing  because  instead  of  the  same  old  routine 
where  Buck  would  try  to  get  bock  in  time  to  where  he  belongs,  he 
accepts  his  position  and  helps  the  new  Eorth  in  her  encounters  with 
other  worlds. 

Everybody  likes  'good  guy' 

This  show  has  action  and  laughs,  but  mostly  it  appeals  to  the  public 
because  of  the  hero  trying  to  help  his  world.  And  almost  everyone 
likes  o  good  guy. 

This  program  is  the  best  new  show  I've  seen  this  fall,  and  I  think  it 
will  be  a  big  hit. 

Book  review 

Masterpiece 

By  Christina  N.  Weibley 
Staff  Writer 

"Bloodline"  is  a  masterpiece  of  writing  ability  depicted  by  the  in- 
genuity of  Sidney  Sheldon,  the  author. 

Sheldon  has  mastered  the  techniques  of  literature,  to  intertwine 
two  very  seperote  murder  themes  into  one  novel.  Sheldon  brings  eoch 
character  into  focus  by  giving  each  one  an  individual,  indepth  chapter. 
Sheldon  sets  the  mood  of  suspicion  early  in  the  novel  and  keeps  the 
reader  in  sheer  suspense. 

The  book's  main  theme  is  to  tell  the  story  behind  Roffe  and  Sons,  a 
multi-billion  dollar  pharmaceutical  business,  and  the  murder  of 
Somuel  Roffe,  president  of  the  company.  The  daughter,  Elizabeth 
Roffe,  inherits  the  business  and  the  position,  and  must  find  her 
father's  killer  before  she,  herself,  is  killed. 

Eoch  character  is  given  o  motive  for  killing  Samuel  Roffe,  but  only 
one  is  killing  young  ladies  out  of  revenge  for  not  being  able  to  satisfy 
his  wife. 

"Bloodline  '  depicts  both  the  creotiveness  of  a  mystery  novel  and  the 
foundation  for  a  great  novel.  Sheldon  has  achieved  the  positions  of  a 
superb  writer  for  modern-style  novels. 


Reviews^ 

Record  review 

One  hot  album 

By  Brian  M.  Rippey 
Sloff  Writer 

One  of  the  hottest  albums  on  the  chorts  todoy  is  the  Electric  Light 
Orchestra's  (ELO)  "Discovery'  LP. 

"Discovery  "  the  group's  first  release  since  their  1977  releose    Out 
Ot  The  Blue  "  is  the  best  effort  of  their  brilliont  recording  coreer. 

The  LP  leads  off  with  the  group  s  first  hit  since  Mr.  Blue  Sky'  • 
"Shine  A  Little  Love."  The  song  opens  with  the  group's  various  fornns  of 
special  effects  which  have  mode  them  so  popular. 

Jeff  Lynne.  the  group's  lead  singer,  joins  in  with  his  vocals  thot  have 
become  the  sound  of  ELO. 

The  groups  latest  release.  "Confusion.  "  follows.  This  song  also 
includes  special  effects,  most  noticeably,  the  sound  of  seemingly 
talking  instruments  which  has  become  a  trademark  of  the  English  rock 
group. 

The  LP  olso  includes  one  of  ELO's  biggest  hits  ever     "Don  t  Bring 
Me  Down."'   "Lost  Train  To  London."'  onother  fine  song  on  the  LP,  was 
not  released  by   the  group  but  recieved  a  lot  of  air  time  on  radio 
stations  across  the  country. 

However,  the  best  song  on  the  album  is  probably  "The  Diary  of 
Horace  Wimp. '"  o  song  obout  a  mon  who  thinks  he  has  met  the  right 
girl  and  gets  married.  In  the  first  couple  of  chourses  the  group  sings, 
"Horace  Wimp  is  this  your  life  go  out  and  find  yourself  o  wife  At  the 
end  the  group  rearranges  the  words  to  "Horace  Wimp  is  this  your  wife 
go  out  and  find  yourself  o  life"  after  he  finds  he  is  unhappy. 

Discover  this  lotest  LP  from  one  of  the  premire  groups  in  Rock.  Youli 
find  many  hours  of  listening  pleasure. 


Television  review 


A  suffering  show 

By  John  Zelewici 
Staff  Writer 

The  public  would  think  nothing  of  putting  a  suffering  animal  to  rest. 

But  what  about  on  ailing  television  show  such  os  M'A'S'H  (Mobile 
Army  Surgical  Hospital)? 

M'A'S'H.  which  at  one  time  was  the  epileme  of  television  comedy, 
should  be  laid  to  rest  before  it  tarnishes  the  image  it  strove  to  attain. 

Since  it  first  appeared  on  television  until  now.  it  has  undergone  sev- 
erol  changes.  Most  of  the  changes  involved  the  cost 

Gary  Burghoff  (Radar),  a  member  of  original  cost,  recently  quit.  This 
brought  the  number  of  original  members  from  eight  to  four. 

M'A'S'H,  has  served  its  usefulness  to  the  public. 

Now  it  should  be  allowed  to  continue  on  its  way  by  leaving  tele- 
vision. 

It  must  be  token  off  the  air  before  it  drags  down  the  fine  name  it  has 
attained  in  television  comedy. 


t 


$1,000,000 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       on  sale 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 


I  Footwear  •  WorliHuntingHiking 

I  Outerwear •  VESTSJACKETSCOATS 

I  JEANS  •  You  name  it  ■  We  have  It 

I  Atliletic  Footwear 

I  GLOVES  •  Mittens 

OPEN  9  AM  ■  9  PM  Mon.Fri. 


Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Countrv 

Alpine 

325  Market  St. 
Otiiet  DAYS  9  AM    5:30  PM 


jge6  SPOOKLIGHT  Oct  29. 1979 


Every  other  year.  U.S.  citizens  go 
through  a  ritual  whereby  one-third  or  so  of 
the  "qualified"  electorate  cast  their 
ballots  and  new  leaders  are  chosen. 

This  year  the  ritual  falls  on  Nov.  6.  the 
first  Tuesday  of  the  month. 


Somehow,  it's  : 
Why^ 

Ask  almost  any- 
one why  election 
day  falls  on  a 
Tuesday  and  the 
usual  response  is, 
■'it's   tradition," 


ilways  on  a   Tuesday. 


there  was  never  any  mention  in  writing  as 
to  the  whys  and  wherefores  of  the  setting 
of  that  particular  date. 

Hunt  said 
another  bill 
amended  the 
election    laws    in 


1874.     thi! 


Ho 


the 


seems  to  ki 
reason  behind  thi 
tradition 
Even  someone 


'Tradition' found  as  only 
cause  for  Tuesday  election 


nmersed  in  lawbooks 


like  Sam  Hunt,  the  librarian  at  the  Ly- 
coming County  Law  Library,  thought  it 
was  "tradition  ■' 

However,  when  Hunt  cheeked  the  law 
books,  he  found  the  "tradition"  had  been 
changed  as  recently  as  1909 

Hunt  said  the  original  law.  in  the  Penn- 
sylvania Constitution  read.  "  general 
elections  shall  be  held  the  first  Tuesday 
following  the  first  Monday  of  October  each 
even  numbered  year."  -  Article  7.  Section 
2, 

He  said  the  original  law.  written  in  1776, 
was  followed  even  after  being  amended  in 
I79()  and  again  in  1838.  Still,  Hunt  said. 


day  of  elections 
This  change  read, 
general  elec- 
tions shall  beheld 
each  even 

numbered    year, 
on  the  first  Tues- 
day following  the 
first    Monday    of 
November." 
Finally,  according  to  Hunt,  the  law  was 
amended  to  having  elections  m  odd  num- 
bered years  in  1909,  Hunt  said  this  could  be 
changed  again  if  two-thirds  of  the  mem- 
bers of  both  houses  agreed  to  the  change. 

However,  he  said  this  would  have  to  be 
done  in  an  odd-numbered  year  as  specified 
by  the  current  election  laws. 

Still,  throughout  all  the  changes  and  in 
the  original  law  Itself,  there  never  was  or 
has  ever  been  any  mention  as  to  why  that 
particular  day  was  chosen.  It's  really  any- 
body's guess, 


Chess  club 
'suffers  from 
disinterest' 

The  Chess  Club  is  suffering  from  the 
deadly  disease  of  disinterest  Without  an 
immediate  cure,  the  club  is  destined  to  die. 
According  to  Frank  J  Bowes,  director  of 
student  activities  and  placement 

The  Chess  Club  isn't  really  a  club 
Rather,  it  is  "a  five-man  team  that  is  put 
together  every  year".  Bowes  said. 

He  explained  that  it  takes  15  members  to 
form  a  charter.  However,  "there's  never 
been  that  many  people  interested",  he 
said. 

David  B.  Clark,  assistant  professor  of 
chemistry,  has  served  as  advisor  of  the 
team  since  it  began  three  years  ago  He 
said  that  four  students  had  formed  the 
"WACC  Team",  and  joined  the  Williams- 
port  Chess  League  He  added  that  the  team 
was  affiliated  with  the  college  only  during 
its  first  year  of  play. 

Bowes  said  the  city  chess  league  "wants 
us  back  ",  because  the  team  members 
were  "good  players  "  and  had  "always 
been  a  good  match"  In  turn,  the  League 
provided  "good  apposition  for  those  who 
liked  the  game",  he  added. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  the  team 
should  contact  Bowes  in  Room  209,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  or  call  extension  239. 


HALLOWEEN 


darkness  came  the  universal  ideas  of 
.witches,  ghosts,  demons,  elves  and 
divinations. 


Ha 


vest  s 


It  wa 


nbols 


Enorgy  ConsQrvatfon  Tfps , 


Don't  spend  money  heating  space 
you're  not  using  Close  the  doors  to 
your  attic,  basement,  garage  or  other 
unheated  parts  of  your  house. 


also  the  season  of  the  old  Roman 
Festival  of  Pomona,  the  goddess  of  fruit. 
This  festival  is  the  basis  for  the  harvest 
symbols  that  are  sometimes  seen  with  the 
Halloween  symbols. 

Combination  of  ideas 

The  concept,  then,  is  a  compilation  of 

ideas  from  at  least  three  cultures.  The 

Roman  invasion  of  Britain,  the  fall  of  the 


g»rowi 


Roman  Empire  and  the  rise  of  Christianity 
all    combined    to    form    the    ominous, 
shadowy  holiday  called  Halloween, 
Legends  based  in  fact 

One  thing  that  almost  all  of  the  legends 

include  is  the  ominous  day  when  demons 
walk  on  theearth- 

And  legends,  say  the  scholars,  usually 
have  their  basis  in  fact. 

But  who  will  look  outside  on  All  Hallow's 
Eve  at  Ihe  witching  hour,  to  find  out  if  the 
legends  are  true'' 
■■■■■■■■'■■■■■■■■—-' 


iamsport 
Phone  322-9427 


SPOTLIGHT  Deadlines 

We  suggest  members  of  the  campus  community 
CLIP  AND  SAVE  this  listing. 

Noon  Fritjay  Preceding  Date  of  Issue 

-  All  Display  Advertising  for  Campus  Clubs  or 
Organizations  Eligible  for  Special  Rate. 

Noon  Monday  Preceding  Date  of  Issue 

-  Pictures  or  Scheduling  of  Pictures  of 
A  Non-Spot  News  Nature. 

Noon  Tuesday  Preceding  Date  of  Issue 

-  Campus  Service  Features 

Such  As  "World  of  Work"  and  the  SGA  Report 

-  All  Listings  for  "Bulletin  Board" 

3  P.M.,  Wednesday  Preceding  Date  of  Issue 
■  Final,  Absolute,  Definite  Deadline  for 

All  Material  Other  Than  Wednesday  Evening 

and  Thursday  Mornihg  Events 
1 1  A.M.  Thursday  Preceding  Date  of  Issue 

-  Reports  Covering  Wednesday  Evening  and 
Thursday  Morning  Events.  .  .Or  Another 
Johnstown  Flood,  The  Second  Coming, 

Or.  .  .  The  PERFECT  English  Comp  Research  Paper! 


WORLD  OF  WORK 


CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 

E.  Tctz  4  Sons.  Inc..  R.D,  «2.  Middletown.  NY  10940.  needs  repairman  (or 
hea\  .V  equipment.  If  mteresled.  call  914-692-4486  or  write  to  Edward  Tetz.  Jr 

Stacltpole  Carbon  Co..  St,  Marys,  Pa  15857.  needs  electronic  technicain.  If  in- 
terested, write  Dan  Burfield 

Girton  Manufacturing,  Milleville.  Pa.  17845.  needs  mechanical  and  engin- 
eering draftsman  If  interested  write  or  call  Mr  Ed  Remener,  at  717-458-5521 

MaCrec  Smith  Publishing.  Route  54  and  Old  Route  147,  Turbotville,  Ra  17772, 
needs  typesetters  and  journalists.  Write  or  call  Mr  Richard  Fenstamacker  at 
717-649-5103. 

Corning  Glass.  1  Jackson  St.,  Wellsboro,  Pa.  needs  mechanical  and 
engineering  draftsman.  If  interested,  write  Jesse  Hines. 

Jeans  West.  Lycoming  Mall,  needs  assistant  manager  trainee.  Write  Susan 
Chappey 

Community  Bank  and  Trust.  610  Washington  Ave.,  Jersey  Shore,  Pa  17740, 
needs  computer  operator.  Call  or  write  John  Paul  at  717-398-4788 

Central  Susquehanna  Intermediate  Unit.  P.O.  Box  213.  Lewisburg,  needs 
business  typist.  Call  or  write  Gail  Hampe  at  717-524-4431 . 

Ingersoll-Rand  Co.,  Athens,  Pa.,  needs  business  accountant.  Write  Steve 
Tacka. 

Turbotville  National  Bank.  Turbotville,  Pa.  needs  business  accountant.  Call 
or  write  Lewis  Jones  at  717-649-51 18.  


/,,.ii,i^.>  f„r  H  ,„(,/  „f  It  ,„h  . 


„M  In  l,mik  I    /i,„ 


■,.,,. ,r.  (.,11., 
-hoiM  l,„  „ 


Part-time  Jobs 


Telephone  Sales  Person  for  Olan  Mills  Studio,  two  shifts:  9  am  to  I  p  m  . 
second  shift  from  4  p  m  to  8  p  m  Apply  Mrs  Cowles.  manager,  326-l%l  or  at 
143  W  Fourth  St  ,  Room  310 

North  American  Training  Academy  needs  several  people  to  distribute  adver- 
tising, four  hours  per  day  between  9  a.m.  and  5  p  m  Must  have  car  Three 
dollars  per  hour  plus  car  expenses  If  interested,  call  Mr  Bernie  Sanders  717- 
283-0645.  Call  collect.  North  American  Training  Academy.  300  Market  Street, 
Kingston,  Pa  18704 

Floral  Designer,  full  or  part-time,  experience  required  Ncvill's  Flowers, 
rear  218  N.  Loyalsock  Ave..  Montoursville. 

Short  order  cook  wanted  evenings,  no  experience  necessary,  will  train.  Wm. 
Tally  House  at  Britts 

Receptionist-secretary.  20  hours  maximum  per  week.  Apply  West  Branch 
Racquet  Club  If  interested,  call  326-2828 

Arby's  Roast  Beef  Restaurant.  East  Third  Street  No  calls. 

Christmas  help  needed.  Nov.  10  to  Dec.  24.  Interviews  at  Lycoming  Mall.  Mall 
Community  Room. 

Housekeepers,  The  Best  Western  University  Inn,  Route  15,  South  Williams- 
port  Apply  in  person- 
Waiter  or  Waitresses  and  breakfast  short  order  cooks  Apply  at  Palm  Tree. 
1305  W.  Third  St.  between  10  am.  and  11 :30  a.m.  No  phone  calls. 


SPORTS 


MEMO  from  the 


X-country  team 
finishes  eighth 

The  Wildcat  cross-country  team  finished 
eighth  in  an  invitational  meet  Saturday. 
Oct.  20  The  meet  was  at  Bucks  County 
Community  College- 
According  to  cross-country  coach  David 
Housknecht,  nine  teams  completed  in  the 
meet. 
They  were  Bergen  County  Community 
College.  44.  Bucks  County  Community 
College,  85,  Morris  County  Community 
College.  100;  Stevens  County  Community 
College.  111.  Delaware  County  Commun- 
ity College.  120;  Camden  County  Commun- 
ity College,  122;  Burlington  County  Com- 
munity College.  167;  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College.  180;  Williamson 
Trade.  186. 

The  Wildcat  team  was  to  have  com- 
pleted in  a  conference  tournament  Satur- 
day. Oct  27 

Goetz,  Flood 
go  to  tennis 
quarter-finals 

The  Eastern  Pennsylvania  Community 
College  Athletic  Conference  fEPCCAC) 
women's  tennis  tournament  was  held 
Saturday,  Oct.  20,  at  Montgomery  County 
Community  College,  according  to  Harry  C 
Specht,  physical  education  instructor. 

Janice  C.  Goetz.  a  freshman  accounting 
major  from  Renovo.  and  Tracy  L.  Flood,  a 
sophomore  dental  hygiene  major  from 
Mechanicsburg  represented  the  College  in 
the  tournament  Both  girls  advanced  to  the 
quarter-finals  before  being  eliminated, 
said  Specht. 

The  tournament  was  won  by  host  school 
Montgomery  County  Community  College, 
with  Delaware  County  Community  College 
finishing  second,  he  said. 


Golf  team  ties 
game,  shares 
fifth  place 

The  Wildcats  golf  team  tied  with  Bucks 
County  Community  College  in  the 
EPCCAC  (Eastern  Pennsylvania  Com- 
munity College  Athletic  Conference)  golf 
tournament,  according  to  Dr.  Dwight  E. 
Waltz,  golf  coach  The  two  teams  placed 
fifth  in  ihe  tournament 

Other  schools  participating  were  Mont- 
gomery County  Community  College. 
Northampton  County  Community  College, 
Luzerne  County  Community  College,  Del- 
aware County  Community  College  and 
Bucks  County  Community  College, 

Montgomery  County  won  in  the  second 
playoff  hole  The  top  six  places  received 
trophies  and  the  top  10  places  received  All- 
Conference  certificates 

The  tournament  marks  the  end  of  the 
golf  season 

IM  basketball 
deadline  soon 

Entries  are  still  open  for  all  students 
who  are  interested  in  intramural  basket- 
ball 

According  to  Thomas  G  Gray,  director 
of  inti-amural  sports,  rosters  and  rules 
may  be  picked  up  at  the  intramural  bull- 
etin board. 

The  deadline  for  signing  up  is  Wednes- 
day, Nov.7,  at  4p.m..saidGray 


Snnhnt 


nl.ihir   In     Ihr  ,^/'^/. 


In  .in.lrni^. 

Hi! 

I'm  Kim  Dincher.  the  president  of 
theSGA  Id  be  wilhng  tobcl  thatat 
least  half  of  you  here  at  WACC  have 
no  idea  what  the  SGA  is  or  who  the 
officers  are. 

Well,  the  SGA  is  the  Student 
Government  Association.  We  are 
comprised  of  five  officers,  and  a  rep- 
resentative senator  and  alternate 
from  each  curriculum.  We  represent 
the  students  by  being  their  only 
■  voice  to  the  administration  YOU 
students  are  the  governing  body  at 
WACC.  Through  us,  the  SGA.  you 
have  the  power  to  make  this  college 
better 

However,  we  are  only  a  small  part 
of  the  many  students  here  at  WACC 
and  therefore  we  have  only  a  limited 
amount  of  ideas,  We  are  open  to 
suggestions,  complaints,  and  ideas 
that  any  student  has  to  offer. 

Hopefully,  in  the  months  ahead. 


9^ 


we'll  have  improved  SGA  elections, 
a  better  communications  system 
between  students  and  faculty  and 
administration,  and  a  set  college 
hour  when  no  classes  are  scheduled 
so  that  meetings  can  be  held  at  that 
time  with  full  attendance. 

We  are  the  center  of  your  enter- 
tainment also  You  should  enjoy  (he 
entertainment  brought  to  you  be- 
cause the  money  that  you  pay  for  a 
student  activity  fee  partially  goes 
for  your  entertainment 

So  why  not  give  us  some  sugges- 
tions and  attend  the  concerts, 
dances,  and  other  activities  that  you 
have  in  fact  paid  for*  Don't  just  sit 
back  and  complain,  make  yourself 
heard  in  the  SGA.  We  have  a  house 
used  solely  by  the  SGA  that  is  lo- 
cated behmd  the  Lair  Officers  will 
be  posting  their  office  hours  shortly 
This  house  will  also  be  used  as  a 
lounge  for  all  senators  and  alter- 
nates of  the  SGA 

So  come  on  over  and  be  heard.  Re- 
member, we're  your  ONLY  voice  to 
the  administration. 

Representing  you, 

Kim  Dincher 

SGA  President 


c&c 

SUBS 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Page  8  SPOOKLIGHT  Ocl.29. 1979 

Bulletin  Board 

MOVIK 

"Night  of  the  Living  Dead".  "Rabid"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial.  Chapter  8, 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium.  7:30  tonight.  $1  with  student  ID 
BLOODMOBILK 
Bloodmoblle.  BardoGym.  Wednesday.  9;  45  am  to.l  45p  m  .  and  Thursday. 
9:15a.m.  to3:15p.m. 

PUMPKIN 
Pumpkin  Carving  Contest.  Klump  Academic  Center  Cafeteria.  Monday,  6 
p.m.  Free  with  student  ID 

BAKE  SALE 
Bake  Sale.  Klump  Academic  Center  Lobby.  Tuesday 

MEETINGS 
Student  Government  Association,  Room  302,  Klump  Academic  Center,  tom- 
orrow. 4  p,m 
Tomorrow.  Artists  Unlimited,  3:00  p.m.,  Room  5.  Klump  Academic  Center. 
Tomorrow,  yearbook  meeting.  Room  132,  Klump  Academic  Center,  4:30  p.m. 
Anyone  interested  in  producing  a  I979-I980 yearbook  may  attend 

SWIMMING 

Swimming.  YMCA.  7-8  p.m..  Free. 

SKATING 

Skating  Costume  Party.  Skateland  USA.  Tomorrow,  8  to  ii  p.m.  Free  to 
students  with  ID.;  guests $1. 

Sign  up  at  Communications  Center  for  free  bus  ride  from  Bardo  Gym  to 
Skateland  and  back. 
Bus  leaves  7 :30  p.m..  returns  after  skating  party.  Skate  rentatis75(. 

DANCE 
Dance  scheduled  for  Wednesday  has  been  cancelled, 

SALES 
Cider  and  doughnuts,  apple  sale,  second  floor,  Klump  Academic  Center,  to- 
day and  Wednesday 

BOBBING 
Apple  bobbing,  second  floor.  Klump  Academic  Center,  Wednesday, 

VOM  MIKliS 
Volunteers  are  needed  by  the  \'  N]  <  \  i  <  >  i  ]  r  1 1 1  m  j  1 1 1  heir  programs. 


News  shorts 


Will  Rogers' 
centenial  is 
November  4 

November  4  this  vear  is  (he  centenial  of 
Will  Rogers  birlh,   ', 

He  was  born  in  Uologah.  Indian  Terri- 
tory  (which  later  became  Oklahoma),  and 
was  part  Cherokee,  When  asked  about  his 
background,  he  once  replied,  "No,  my  an- 
cestors didn't  come  over  on  the  May- 
flower In  fact  you  might  say  they  met  the 
boat  " 

He  grew  up  in  a  ranching  and  farming 
community,  and  his  career  a.s  an  enter- 
tainer began  when  he  joined  a  touring 
rodeo  as  a  cowboy  who  specialized  in  lasso 
tricks.  Rogers  went  on  to  be  a  vaudville 
performer,  acted  in  Ziegfeld's  Follies,  and 
got  into  silent  films  In  the  early  1930's  he 
became  a  star  of  talking  pictures,  a 
lecturer,  a  syndicated  newspaper  com- 
mentator, and  the  author  of  several 
volumes  of  humorous  stories. 

Will  Rogers'  simple  human  dignity  and 
respect  for  his  fellow  men  was  transmitted 
to  audience.s  through  his  humor  and 
allowed  people  to  think  that  not  only  was 
Rogers  worthy  of  their  love  and  respect, 
but  they  themselves  might  be  worthy.  His 
death  in  an  airplane  accident  in  1935  was  a 
shock  to  the  entire  nation 

He  had  an  effect  on  his  times  as  a  person 
and  as  a  public  figure,  but  his  most  impor- 
tant legacy  was  as  a  symbol  Will  Rogers 
was  the  archetypical  American-a  cowboy, 
a  country  boy  with  strong  traditional 
values  who  could  look  at  a  chaotic  world 
with  clear  eyes  .Still,  he  was  able  to 
discern  the  good  and  the  evil  and  to 
confront  them  both  with  dignity  and 
humor. 

Will  Rogers  —  a  true  American 

—  Ttie  Reporter  Service 


Taumatawhalatangihangakoauauotam- 
atepokaiwhenuakitanatahu.  is  the  name  of 
a  bill  located  in  New  Zealand. 


Thaiik,s<!;ivin}j  proclaimed 
national  holiday  in  1863 

In  1827  Sarah  J.  Hale,  editor  of  "Godey's 
Lady's  Book"  and  author  of  "Mary  Had  a 
Little  Lamb,  began  a  campaign  urging  the 
adoption  of  a  uniform  day  for  the  obser- 
vance of  Thanksgiving.  She  wrote 
editorials  and  personal  letters  to  the 
governors  of  all  the  states  and  to  the  Pres- 
ident 

"Would  it  not  be  a  great  advantage, 
socially,  nationally,  religiously."  she 
wrote,  "to  have  the  day  of  our  American 
Thanksgiving,  positively  settled''  Putting 
aside  the  sectional  feelings  and  local  ind- 
ents that  might  be  urged  by  any 
slate  of  isolated  territory  that  desired  to 
choose  its  own  time  would  it  not  be  more 
noble,  more  truly  American,  to  bee 
national  in  unity  when  we  offer  to  God  our 
tribute  of  joy  and  gratitude  for  the 
blessings  of  the  year?  " 

Her  campaign  was  successful. 

On  October  3.  1863.  President  Lincoln 
issued  the  first  national  Thanksgiving 
Proclamation,  setting  apart  the  last 
Thursday  in  November  as  Thanksgiving 
Day. 

—  Ttie  Reporter  Service 

The  longest  sausage  ever  recorded  was 
one  3,124  feet  long  made  on  June  29, 1966  by 
butchers  in  Scunthorpe,  Lincolnshire, 
England.  It  was  made  6';  cwt.  of  pork  and 
I'-j  cwt  of  cereal  and  seasoning 


Waschet's 

Chitoptactic 
Centei  of  Life 

David  G  Wascher 
Chiiopractor 

© 

1905  Mill  Une 

Willismsport,  Pa. 

Phone  17171  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 

How  'bout  a 

'gator-burger? 

They  once  were  on  the  endangered 
species  list  But  now  alligators  have 
become  something  of  a  nuisance  in 
swampy  states 

And  in  Flordia.  wildlife  officials  are  find- 
ing new  ways  to  limit  their  numbers- 

That's  why  they're  allowing  certain  rest- 
aurants to  serve  alligator  meat. 

Of  course,  no  one  knows  whether  the 
dining  fad  will  take  hold.  One  official  says 
he's  heard  alligator  meat  described  as 
similar  to  scallops.  "On  the  other  hand," 
he  adds,  "I've  had  people  say  they  can 
take  it  or  leave  it  " 


Somehow,  .  . 
it  seems  right 

When  the  chips  are  down,  they'll  still  be 
married.  Ruth  Wilson  and  John  Talisman 
stopped  gambling  just  long  enough  to  be 
married  in  the  poker  room  of  a  Reno.  Nev.. 
casino 

Talisman,  a  professional  gambler,  com- 
mented about  the  location:  "We've  spent 
many  enjoyable  hours  here.  We  know  all 
the  folks  here  and  it  just  seemed  like  a  nice 
thing. 


Making  a  'hit'  in  Jersey 

Roselle  and  Linden.  New  Jersey,  may  be 
the  hit-and-run  capitals  of  the  world. 

Police  say  that  there  were  more  than  30 
such  incidents  in  the  two  communities 
over  a  recent  weekend,  leaving  many  cars 
damaged  but  few  clues  as  to  the  drivers  re- 
psonsible. 

One  Roselle  policeman  said  an  investi- 
gation is  underway,  but  added:  "This 
one's  gonna  take  a  long  time. ' ' 


WACCEA  lonieot 
tomorrow  afternoon 

A  meeting  of  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College  Education  Association 
will  be  held  at  4  tomorrow  afternoon  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium 

According  to  Association  President  Carl 
M,  Hillyard,  the  agenda  includes  an  elec- 
tion of  directors  and  approval  of  a  budget 
as  well  as  other  items. 


The  curule  chaire  is  a  seat  with  heavy, 
curved  legs  and  no  back,  reserved  for  the 
use  of  the  highest  officials  in  ancient 
Rome.  It  is  also  called  a  "curule  seat   " 


Watch  out  for  zit'zonks! 

An  Ohio  State  University  researcher  has 
unveiled  what  he  calls  "the  Buckfry  Fuel 
Special"  -  a  campus  bus  run  on  80  percent 
diesel  fuel  and  20  percent  French  fry 
grease. 

A  mechanical  engineering  professor, 
Helmuth  Engelman.  says  the  grease  is 
taken  straight  from  the  cooking  vat  and 
strained  to  take  out  small  pieces  of  food. 
The  grease  is  then  poured  into  the  tank  of 
the  bus. 

At  the  last  check,  Engelman  said  lab 
tests  reveal  no  appreciable  loss  of  engine 
performance  or  wear  and  tear. 

Gas  prices  are 
varied  worldwide 

Europeans  and  Japanese  would  gladly 
change  places  with  Americans  who  think 
U.S.  gasoline  prices  are  rising  out  of  sight. 

The  latest  figures  from  the  Department 
of  State  show  the  Japanese  paying  $2.49  a 
gallon,  the  Israelis  $2,32,  the  Italians  $2.22. 
The  price  in  Switzerland  is  $2.09,  in 
Denmark  $2.07  and  in  France  $2.03. 

Some  areas  pay  considerably  less, 
however.  Motorists  in  the  U.S.SR.  pay  65 
cents  a  gallon:  in  Iran,  the  price  is  48 
cents;  in  Egypt,  38  cents;  in  Ecuador.  20 
cents;  and  in  Saudi  Arabia,  1. Scents, 


Thursday, 
November  15, 1979 

Fun 
and 
Fantasy 


t 


(    THE  WILUAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE 


ei^BUIilJBGJU 


(  Monday,  Nov.  5, 1979        Vol15,  No.  10  8  Pages) 


ENERGY 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 


PBL  float  takes  first 
at  Mummers  Parade 


By  Cindy  Snook 
Staff  VVriler 

The  Mummer's  Day  parade  was  post- 
poned Tuesday,  Oct.  23  due  to  bad 
weather.  Phi  Beta  Lambda  iPBD  stil! 
entered  its  float  in  the  rain-date  parade  on 
Thursday,  Oct.  25.  even  though  they  had 
scheduled  a  rollerskating  party  for  the 
same  evening, 

Disneyland  Ttieme 

The  Inconvenience  PBL  felt  proved  to  be 
no  hinderance.  however,  as  the  club  went 
on  to  win  for  its  fifth  consecutive  year  The 
float,  entered  in  Division  7,  won  first  place 
($100)  in  the  Miscellaneous  and  Most 
Unique  Category,  said  Victoria  L. 
Callahan,  club  member. 

Characters  portrayed 

"A  Visit  to  Disneyland,"  the  float  theme, 
was  Illustrated  by  PBL  members  dressed 
as  characters  from  the  world  of  Disney. 
Props  (including  a  Disneyland  castle) 
made  by  the  members,  aided  in  commem- 
orating the  international  year  of  the  child. 

The  following  PBL  members 
participated  in  the  parade:  Lori  M.  Beaver 
as  Sleeping  Beauty ;  Douglas  C.  Savidge  as 
Prince  Charming;  Victoria  L.  Callahan  as 
the  Wicked  Queen;  David  E.  Ricker  as 
Donald  Duck  and  Pamela  H  Hill  as  Winnie 
the  Pooh. 

The  Seven  Dwarfes  were:  Tracey  J 
Menke,  Sneezy;  Janet  M.  Swartz,  Dopey; 
Darlene  R.  Raymond,  Bashful;  Jean  M. 
Pagana,  Grumpy;  Ray  Smith,  Jr..  Doc; 


Jeffrey  C.  Markle.  Sleepy  and  Gregory  T. 
Lawrence,  Happy  Snow  White  was 
Tammy  A.  Blessing. 

Others  were: 

J.  Timothy  Mooney  as  the  Mad  Hatter; 
Daniel  B  Hollis  as  Peter  Pan;  Mary  J, 
Zechman  as  Tinkerbell;  Linda  E.  Whaley 
as  Pinnochio;  Robert  E.  Dewald  as 
Cinderella's  prince;  Robin  A.  Hummel  as 
Cinderella;  Anntoinette  Noviello  as 
Mickey  Mouse.  Joette  M.  Sierlle  as  Minnie 
Mouse ;  Rose  Ann  Noviello  as  Mary 
Poppins;  Reese  F.  Dibble  as  Merlin  the 
Magician;  Gordan  G,  Tucker  as  Captain 
Hook  and  Marlene  R.  House  as  Alice  in 
Wonderland. 

Generator  quit 

"All  In  all,  it  came  off  very  well,"  said 
Miss  Callahan. 

A  few  problems  were  encountered  along 
the  path  to  victory,  however,  but  PBL  held 
on  till  the  end  When  the  generator, 
providing  energy  for  lights  and  sounds, 
stopped  working,  the  Hepburn  Township 
Volunteer  Fire  Company  gave  assistance 
by  shining  their  own  lights  on  the  float 
during  the  parade. 


Tower  da 


aged 


People  at  the  tables  last  week  when  the  Bloodmobile  came  to  the  College.  The 
Red  Cross  »nd  the  College  were  trying  to  set  a  record  of  600  pints  donated. 
Candy  distributed 


Adding  to  the  trouble  -  a  tree  limb  hit 
the  Disneyland  castle  Jeffrey  C.  Markle 

held  up  the  castle  tower  as  the  float  passed 
by  the  judge's  stand. 


Participating  members  also  handed  out 
candy  and  car  litter  bags  as  they  pro- 
ceeded along  the  parade  route  in  South 
Willlamsport 

(Please  turn  lo  Page  8, 


Zany  Week 
is  coming 

By  John  Zelewicz 
Staff  Writer 

If  you've  been  feeling  a  little  crazy  lately 
and  would  like  to  do  something  zany,  your 
opportunity  is  coming  up 

Zany  Week,  which  takes  place  from 
Monday.  Nov,  12,  to  Friday,  Nov,  16.  gives 
you  your  chance, 

Car  smash  planned 

On  Monday,  Nov.  12.  there  will  be  a 
volleyball  tournament  at  7  p.m  in  the 
gym.  Six  volunteers  from  each  curriculum 
will  play  agamst  teams  from  other  curr- 
iculums 

A  car  smash  will  beheld4p,m  Monday, 
between  units  29  and  30  Any  individual 
can  hit  the  car  with  a  sledge  hammer  for 
25«  a  hit 

Bonfire 

Also,  on  Monday  at  6  p.m  ,  there  will  be  a 
bonfire,  between  units  29  and  30 

At  the  bonfire,  curriculum  senators  will 
present  a  male  and  female  student  from 
their  curriculum  who  will  be  wearing 
clothing  signifying  their  curriculum.  They 
will  add  fuel  to  the  fire  by  throwing  an 
object  signifying  their  curriculum  into  the 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  members  characterizing  the  land  of  Disney 


flan 

Food  frenzy 

The  couple  presented  by  their  senator 

A'ill  compete  for  "Williamsport  Area  Com- 


Page  2 


V  I  E  W  P  O   INT 


Whaddya'  Say. 


This  week's  question  was  asked  by  Jon  I.    Daniel  and 
John  L   Rickerl  of  the  SPOTLIGHT  staff 


Do  you  have  any  suggestions  abouf  whaf  the 
United  States  can  do  fo  help  the  Cambodians  who 
are  being  forced  from  their  homes  by  the  Khmer 
Rouge  government? 


'  Jeonette  E.  Owen,  of  Williomsport, 
occounting:  "I  think  the  United  States 
should  stay  out  of  it." 
2  Golen  P.  Brown,  of  Broadtop  City, 
machinist  general:  "I  feel  that  the 
United  States  should  not  even  deal 
with  the  Cambodions  ...  let  the 
Cambodians  handle  it  themselves." 


coiTonai 

Women  con  relox 

After  months  of  having  to  trudge  (or  rush)  up  the  stairs  to  utilize  a 
toilet,  female  students  in  Klump  Academic  Center  may  now  relax.  The 
first  floor  women's  toilet  is  now  open. 

Thanks  to  Corpentry,  Plumbing,  ond  Masonry  students,  and  the 
staffs  of  the  Maintenance  and  Physical  plonts,  the  bothroom  is  now 
renovoted  and  usable. 

It  is  encouraging  to  note  thot  the  men's  toilet  on  the  first  floor  is  now 
being  renovated. 

Well,  ofter  all  that  lime  the  gentlemen  had  to  laugh  at  the  lodies, 
now  it's  their  turn! 


3  Joyce  M,  Hudson,  of  Williomsport, 
general  studies:  "I  think  that  the 
United  Stotes  should  just  keep  out  of 
it.  We  have  more  important  things  to 
do  in  our  own  country." 

4  Jeffrey  5.  Frederick,  of  Milton, 
electrical  construction:  "I  think  they 
ought  to  send  them  money  and  food," 


Television  review 

Depicts  reol  life 

By  Christina  N.  Weibley 
Staff  Writer 

WKRP  in  Cincinnati  is  a  show  that  depicts  the  life  of  o  radio 
station.  The  cost  portrays  characters  that  lead  individuol  lives,  but 
combine  together  while  working  at  the  station. 

The  two  dominant  charocters  of  the  show  are  Dr.  Johnny  Fever  and 
Jennifer. 

Johnny  is  the  morning  disc  jockey  who  keeps  his  personal  life  quiet, 
but  is  very  prominent  in  his  work. 

Jennifer  is  the  station's  secretary,  but  does  absolutely  no  secretarial 
work.  She  is  the  sex  symbol  of  the  show. 

She  manipulates  people  by  using  her  body  to  hint  at  amorous 
rewards  —  and  so  winds  up  having  those  people  do  her  routine  work 
for  her. 

The  rest  of  the  charocters  combine  together  to  round  out  the  setting 
of  Q  true  radio  station. 

Each  of  the  following  characters  depict  a  member  of  a  radio  crew: 

Less  Nessman,  the  news  onnouncer;  Andy,  the  program  director; 
Mr,  Carlson,  the  boss:  Herb,  the  soles  manager;  Bailey,  the  traffic 
supervisor;  and  Venus  Flytrap,  the  night  disc  jockey. 

"WKRP  in  Cincinnati,  "  is  presently  in  its  second  season  and  is  still 
providing  good  entertainment. 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  academic  year. 

except  for  official  college  vocations,  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students   Office 

Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement)-  Telephone  (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221. 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvonio  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

Monoging  Editor MolUe  Zelewicz 

Campus  Editor Jon  L   Daniel 

Associate  Compus  Editor John  F  Zeiewici 

Sports  Editor , Jocquelme  J   Cardene 

Photography  Editor Dwighl  E  Schmuck 

Senior  Staff  Reporter flrod  E  Bngfish 

Reporters:  Robert  J  Allen.  Oonno  I,  Cinter.  Thereio  J  MocKenzie,  John  L  Rlckert. 
Brian  M  ffippey.  Leslie  M  Rogers,  Trudy  M  Shivefy.  Cindy  M  Snook,  Kimberly  A 
Steele,  lo^ryG   Sleele,  ffoberf  E   Thomas,  Chr/s(/no  N    Weibley 

Staff  Agists Gerald  J.  Rexer,  Michael  Lekites 

Contributing  Repoyier Goll  M    Thompson 

StoH  Assistont Timothy  A    Toth 


Record  review 

Their  very  best 

By  Jon  L.  Daniel 
Staff  Writer 

The  Charlie  Doniels  Bond's  newest  olbum,    "Million  Mi 
ions,  "  reflects  the  group  of  its  very  best. 

One  of  the  country's  top  current  hits,   "The  Devil  Went  Down 
Georgia  ",  is  on  the  olbum.  However,  the  quality  of  music  does  not  d^ 
dine  from  thot  song. 


flect- 


The  album  was  nominated  for  the  Country  Music  Album  of  the  Year, 
with  the  band  claiming  title  to  the  best  vocal  bond  of  the  year. 

Such  titles  OS  "Let  the  Blind  Man  Ploy  ".  "Mississippi  ",  and  a  song 
dedicated  to  the  memories  of  Jonis  Joplin,  Elvis  Presley,  and  Ronnie 
Von  Zant,  "Reflections  ",  complete  the  album,  making  it  one  of  the  best 
releases  in  quite  a  while. 


Movie  review 

Watching  was  easy 

Remember  when  watching  a  western  odventure  film  wos  easy? 
When  the  good  guys  and  the  bod  guys  were  definitely  good  guys  and 
bad  guys?  When  the  entire  flick  was  shot  in  one  locole? 

Forget  all  that  when  watching  "The  Stranger  and  the  Gunfighter." 
This  film,  featuring  Lee  von  Cleef  and  Lo  Leigh,  wos  shot  on  several 
sets  in  Italy  and  Mexico  and  not  one  of  the  main  players  is  as  good  or 
bod  OS  John  Wayne  or  Jock  Elam  could  be  good  or  bad. 

The  Stranger,  ployed  by  Lo  Leigh,  is  a  kung  fu  master  sent  on  a 
mission  into  the  United  States  to  find  where  his  uncle  hid  the  emper- 
or's money. 

The  gunfighter,  ployed  by  Lee  von  Cleef,  is  a  bonk  robber  also  inter- 
ested in  the  royal  treasurer.  However,  he  gives  up  the  money  when  Lo 
Leigh  saves  his  life. 

Lo  Leigh  is  an  honest-to-God  kung  fu  moster  and  has  played  in  many 
martiol  orts  films.  Some  proclaim  him  to  be  onother  Bruce  Lee.  His 
mortiol  artistry  is  quite  realistic  and  convincing. 

Lee  van  Cleef  has  starred  in  many,  many  westerns,  among  them, 
■  The  Good,  The  Bod.  ond  the  LJgly,"  and  "For  a  Few  Dollars  More,  " 
both  with  Clint  Eastwood. 

These  two  actors  put  out  a  fine  performonce  is  an  otherwise 
bloaaaoh  movie,  complimenting  each  other  much  like  pepper  adds  to 
beef  stew.  Lo  Leigh  is  comical  to  Lee  van  Cleef's  somberness,  much 
like  a  good  comedy  team  has  a  funny  man  and  a  straight  man. 

The  movie  isn't  supposed  to  be  funny  ...  it  just  turns  out  that  way 
to  those  of  us  who  really  get  into  good  westerns. 


'Sportsmen^  Week' 
underway  this  week 


SPOTLIGHT  Page  3 


B.V  Bob  Allen 
Staff  Writer 

Starting  tonight,  there  will  be  a  series  of 
lectures  and  demonstrations  concerning 
hunting  safety  and  the  rules  governing 
hunting  on  Pennsylvania  state  game 
lands,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti. 
student  activities  assistant. 

According  to  Mrs  Fremiotti,  the 
schedule  will  be  as  follows: 

Tonight  there  will  be  a  lecture  and  dem- 
onstration of  basic  first  aid  geared  to  the 
types  of  accidents  and  injuries  that  can 
occur  while  hunting.  The  instructor  for  this 
lecture  will  be  Francis  X,  Kennedy  from 
the  Pennsylvania  Bureau  of  Foresty, 
Turkey  hunting  lecture 

Tomorrow  night,  Nov.  6.  Robert  Lesher. 
assistant  administrator  to  the  Superin- 
tendent of  the  South  Williamsport  Area 
School  District  will  speak  about  turkey 
hunting. 

There  will  also  be  a  demonstration  and 
display  on  this  topic. 

Rifle  demonstration 

Wednesday.  Nov,  7.  Dennis  Dusza,  Penn- 
sylvania state  game  commissioner,  will 
give  a  film  and  lecture  about  hunting  on 
Pennsylvania  state  game  lands  and  basic 
rules  governing  hunting.  A  question  and 
answer  session  will  follow. 

New  Italian  white  wine 
honors  Presley  memory 

Elvis  Presley  fans  will  soon  be  able  to 
toast  their  idol  with  their  idol,  A  company 
based  in  Delaware  says  it  will  be  import- 
ing a  white  wine  from  Italy  named  after 
the  late  rock  'n  roller.  The  wine  ("Always 
Elvis-Blanc  D'Oro")  will  be  available  in 
the  U.S.  by  December. 

Elvis  shunned  alcoholic  beverages,  but  a 
company  spokesman  says:  "We  feel  this  is 
the  kind  of  wine  Elvis  would  have  drunk  - 
if  he  did  drink." 

Woodrow  Wilson's  portrait  is  on  the 
$100,000  bill. 


Thursday.  Nov.  8.  Micheal  Slease.  exec- 
utive director  of  Milton  YMCA,  Pennsyl- 
vania state  game  commissioner,  and  in- 
structor of  community  education  at  the 
College,  will  lecture,  demonstrate  and  dis- 
play handmade  Pennsylvania  long  rifles, 
powder  horns  and  other  accoutrements. 

Sportmen's  Week  is  being  sponsored  by 
the  Student  Activities  Association,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  lectures  will  be  held  in  Room  402, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  at  7  pm. 

Four  students 
attend  dental 


conference 


KELLY'S  BASKET 


On  The  Square 

IW.  Third  St. 


WEEKLY  SPECIALS 

Whll*  School  Is  In  Salllon 

Any  Special  $3.35 

Sauechraul  w/Pork 
Mashed  Potatoes.  Bread 


lUE 


WED. 


Spaghetti  -- 
All  You  Can  Eat' 
THURS. 

Chicken  &  Biscuits 


Breakfast  Served  from  9  to  1 1  a.m. 

2  Pancakes 

2  Eggs 

2  Sausage  Links 


99< 


3  piece  Chicken $2.59 

3  Piece  Fish $2.49 

%  Lb.  Burger $  .99 

FRIES,  ONION  RINGS 
Bottomless  Drinks  for  WACC  Students 
^/i  Price  Salad  Bar  w/Meal  for  WACC  Students 


Four  dental  hygiene  students  went  to 
Dallas,  Texas  to  attend  ttle  American  Den- 
tal Hygienists  Association  (ADA)  annual 
session,  according  to  Mrs.  Davie  Nestar- 
ick,  dental  tiygiene  instructor,  who  also 
attended  the  session. 

The  four  students  who  represented  the 
college  at  the  Student  General  Assembly 
were  Kimberly  H.  Epier,  of  Campbell- 
town;  Dawn  R.  Mercer,  of  State  College; 
David  C-  Tule,  of  Watsonlown.  and  Mary 
A.  Romano,  of  Tyrone. 

These  students  also  attended  various 
exhibits  and  functions. 

Students  get 
grade  notices 

students  who  received  notices  last  week 
concerning  unsatisfactory  grades  (D  or  F) 
are  asked  to  meet  with  their  advisor  and 
instructor  as  soon  as  possible,  according  to 
Mrs,  Kathryn  M  MarceJlo,  director  of 
student  records. 

"Students  are  advised  to  pay  special 
attention  to  those  classes, ' '  said  Mrs. 
Marcello,  "they  must  be  completed  before 
graduation." 


Carving  fast  and  furious  at  the  Pumpkin  Carving  Contest  last  Monday  nighl 


1  Carving  contest 
I  held  in  cafeteria 

The  Horticulture  Technicians  Club  spon- 
:■;;;  sored  a  pumpkin  carving  contest  last  Mon- 
:Hday,Oct-29. 

;f.  The  contest  was  open  to  the  student 
Igbody  The  pumpkins  were  judged  in  three 
;xcatagories-  Judging  was  for  scariest,  ugli- 
:;:;est,  and  most  unique  pumpkin. 
g:  The  pumpkins  were  donated  by  Dr 
:j  Joseph  G  Sick  and  his  son  Sick  is  the  div- 
:j  ision  director  of  the  Earth  Science  depart- 
;:;ment. 

i?  The  winners  were  announced  Wednes- 
ijday  by  JoAnn  Fremiotti,  student  activities 
:;:  assistant. 

The  winners  and  their  prizes  are: 
V  Paul  K  Lininger,  Nursery  Management 
Sstudent  from  Mechanicsburg,  Pa.  with  the 
:;:most  unique  pumpkin.  Lininger  wins  a 
iiiKenlucky  Fried  Chicken  dinner  and  a  free 
ijijoass  to  the  movies. 

S  Scariest  pumpkin  went  to  Cliff  Siple.  a 
;:;Forestry  student  from  Williamsport.  Siple 
y.  wins  a  free  dinner  from  Kelly's  Basket  and 
:;;  a  free  pass  to  the  movies. 
t  The  winner  of  the  ugliest  pumpkin  cata- 
.vgory  was  Mae  Boock,  a  Nursery  Manage- 
iliment  student  from  Hazleton.  Pa,  Miss 
xBoock  wins  a  free  dental  checkup  and  a 
gsub  from  Cillo's  College  Corner 


Cliff  Siple,  a   forestry  student 
eems  ready  to  attack  his  pumpkin 


Paul   K.    Lininger,   nursery   management   student   from    Mectianicsl 
::;:    carving  a  rather  unusually  styled  jack-o-lanlern. 

Early  scheduling  urged  for  spring  semester 

Scheduling    for    the    spring    semester 
began  last  Monday. 


^ 


I 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELEaiONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Oreat  Outdoors 

■  Footwear  •  WorK-Hunting-Hiking  -^    ^  Ca        a      &k*  &     I  a 

■  Outerwear  •  VESTS- JACKETS-COATS      ■•■■©■»0«SOn  SKI  SQle 

■  JEANS  •  You  name  it  ■  We  have  it        ^^  Cross  Country 

■  Athletic  Footwear  Alpine 

■  GLOVES' Mittens  325  Market  St. 

OPEN  9  AM  -  9  PM  Mon.-Fri.    Other  DAYS  9  AM  ■  5:30  PM 


Gong  I 


students  planning  to  attend  classes  in 
the  spring  are  advised  to  schedule  "as 
early  as  possible.  "  according  to  Kathryn 
M.  Marcello.  director  of  student  records 

Students  can  schedule  classes  during  the 
next  two  weeks,  she  said, 

"However,  she  added,  "it  is  important  to 
remember  the  deadline  for  scheduling  is 
next  Friday.  Nov,  16. 

'  Show  cancelled, 
lack  of  student  interest 

Last  Tuesday  night  auditions  were  to  be 
held  for  a  Gong  Show,  sponsored  by  the 
student  chapter  of  the  Society  of  Manu- 
facturing and  Engineering.  (SME). 
However,  as  7  30  p  m  passed,  noone 
entered  the  Klump  Academic  Center  audi- 
torium to  audition. 

The  Gong  Show  was  to  be  held  tomorrow 
evening.  Nov.  2.  Chalmer  C.  Van  Horn. 
SME  advisor,  said  the  project  will  be  can- 
ceiled. 


Page  4 


ed  children 


The  Circle  K  club  sponsored  a  Halloween!:; 
parly  at  the  Crippled  Children's  Society  :•: 
last  Tuesday  morning.  Oct,  30,  ;j 

The  Society,  a  charitable  educational!:; 
organization,  helps  small  children  with;:: 
learning  difficulties  and  impediments,         x 

According  to  Karen  A.  Fry.  a  teacher  at.:: 
the  Society,  most  of  the  children  have;: 
learning  dysfunctions  due  lo  deafness  orv 
speech  impediments.  i;- 

The  three  Circle  K  club  members  at  the:;: 
party  were  Kristy  L.  Wright.  General;;: 
Studies,  Diane  A.  Wycoff.  General  Studies, ;; 
and  Mary  Jane  Keller.  Business  Manage-:; 
ment.  all  from  Williamsport. 

The  children  came  in  costume  as  did  ;' 
their  teachers  and  the  staff  of  the  Society.  ;: 
The  Circle  K  members  provided  refresh- 
ments, games,  and  u  pmata  full  of  candy 
and  treats  for  the  children 


:::A  duck  being  chased  bv  a  witch?  No,  just 
■:;     the  kids  coining  into  the  partv  loom 


Witilu-s,   gliosis  and 
ripph'driiildrcirsScMi 


isked  men  .  .  .  not  realK.  just  the  students  at  the 

,  ManovvceiiFart>. 


MJ 

'^W^ 

Wt 

f^M 

m' 

W^k 

■pi 

JR    •   • 

K 

k.kjj^. 

Even  witches  sometimes  need  help. 


Two  of  the  masons  on  the  job.  Laying  blocks  is  backbreaking  s 
•ven  at  the  end  of  October. 


i  building  prograi 
being  prepared  for  the  looter  of  the 

Silica  Sand  Co. 
donates  trucks 


Lycoming  Silica  Sand  Co.,  of  Montours- 
ville,  recently  donated  two  Euclid  rear 
dump  trucks  to  the  Service  and  Operation 
of  Heavy  Equipment  program,  according 
to  Joseph  G  Sick,  director.  Earth  Science 
Division 

Formally  accepting  the  donation  on 
behalf  of  the  College  were  Benjamin  H, 
Eldred.  William  L  Stevens,  and  Scott  B. 
Appleman,  all  instructors  Making  the 
presentation  of  Silica  Sand  were  J.  Paul 
Martin,  president,  and  John  Braun.  vice 
president  of  operations,  said  Sick. 

Although  the  donation  was  made  in  Jan- 
uary of  this  year,  the  formal  acceptance 
was  Oct.  24, 

The  trucks  will  be  used  in  the  educat- 
ional process  of  training  students  in  the  re- 
pair and  operation  of  heavy  off-road  dump 
trucks,  according  to  Sick, 

Orson  Welles  broadcast  "War  of  the 
Worlds"  in  1938. 


Dental  hygienists 
display  at  Science  fair 

Five  dental  hygiene  students  partici- 
pated in  a  social  service  fair  for  the  public 
on  Oct,  16.  according  to  Mrs.  Davie  Nestar- 
ick.  dental  hygiene  instructor. 

The  fair  was  held  in  the  Divine  Provi- 
dence Hospital.  It  illustrated  the  various 
social  services  available  in  Lycoming 
County. 

Students  from  the  College  who  partici- 
pated were  Kimberly  H.  Epler,  of  Camp- 
belltown,  Brenda  J.  Kacyon,  of  Berwick; 
Charyl  L,  Hamberger,  of  Williamsport; 
Terry  L  Duncan,  of  Mechanicsburg.  and 
Robun  L,  Hasz.  of  Hershey, 

They  presented  a  table  display  showing 
all  the  services  available  in  the  college's 
dental  hygiene  clinic. 

Sir  Francis  Drake  attacked  the  Spanish 
Armada  in  1588. 

In  1215,  the  Magna  Charta  declared  that 
the  English  king  of  that  time  did  not  have 
absolute  power  over  the  people. 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bat 


CILLO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE: 
Call  ahead  lor  takeout  orders.  Plione  322-1321. 
We  will  have  otdei  ready  foi  you  to  pick  up. 

Hours:  7  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Breakfast  Served  lil  10:30  a.m. 


Open  for  Breakfast:  7  a.m. 


Land 

r  14  W.  Willow  Screet 

Oz 


Williamsport.  PA  17701 
(71 7)  ^22-f,7l2 


Walerbeds  Finest  Srlerlioii  of 
Jewelry  rolliiif^  paper*  and 
Nove!lie.s     smoking  aecessories 


Instructor  exchange 
initiated  with  Columbia 


Pages 


By  Larry  Steele 
Staff  Writer 

James  C.  Pivirotto,  forestry  instructor, 
recently  completed  a  trip  to  British  Colum- 
bia as  part  of  an  instructor  exchange  with 
the  British  Columbia  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology iBCIT)  The  exchange  was 
arranged  by  Dr.  Edmond  A.  Walters  III, 
dean  of  degree  and  certificate  programs 

BCIT  is  a  two-year  technical  school  very 
similar  lo  theCollege.  BCIT  is  a  very  pres- 
tigious school  in  British  Columbia  Jim 
Simpson,  an  mstructor  at  BCIT.  will  be 
coming  lo  the  College  in  the  spring  to  com- 
plete the  exchange- 
Largest  lugging  camp 

Pivirotto  left  Friday,  Sept,  28  and 
arrived  by  plane  in  Vancouver.  He  stayed 
with  Simpson  and  his  family  for  the  week- 
end, getting  a  chance  to  look  over  beautiful 
Vancouver. 

Pivirotto  left  Monday  to  go  on  a  field  trip 
with  students  from  BCIT   The  field  trip 
consisted  of  a  week  at  a  MacMillan  Bloedel 
logging  camp  en  Vancouver  Island- 
Logging  Procedures 

The  camp  was  located  at  Kelsey  Bay, 
about  140  miles  up  the  island-  Pivirotto 
said  he  was  informed  that  this  is  possibly 
the  largest  logging  camp  in  the  world  This 
camp  was  just  one  of  17  camps  that  Mac- 


Millan Bloedel  had,  according  to  Pivirotto. 
It  had  250,000  acres  of  timber,  over  300 
men  in  camp,  and  two  billion  dollars  a 
year  assets. 

Many  nationalities 

Pivirotto  said  at  the  camp  he  was  given 
an  intimate  look  at  West  Coast  logging 
procedures.  Each  day  he  was  given  a 
special  interview.  He  was  able  to  have  in- 
depth  talks  with  such  officials  as  the  head 
engineer  of  the  head  of  felling. 

"The  size  of  the  trees  and  machines 
were  overwhelming."  said  Pivirotto. 

Camp  tours 

He  commented  that  there  were  all  kinds 
of  people  working  in  the  camp,  from 
French-Canadiens  to  Australian  to  Irish. 
He  added  thai  throughout  the  week  he  was 
impressed  by  the  professionalism  dls- 
playled  by  everyone  in  the  camp. 

Tours  of  the  camp  were  planned  late  at 
night  since  there  were  no  social  activities 
in  the  area.  Through  these  tours  Pivirotto 
was  able  to  get  a  closer  look  at  the 
business. 

In  the  spring,  when  Simpson  comes 
here  to  complete  the  exchange,  Pivirotto  is 
planning  to  take  him  around  Pennsylvania 
to  show  him  the  logging  business  in  this 
area  of  the  world. 


Cooperative  program 
termed  Very  sound' 


By  Brian  Rippey 
Staff  Writer 

Edmond  Hunter  and  Charles  Hulet 
visited  theCollege  Monday  Oct.  29,  to  eval- 
uate the  cooperative  education  program . 

Seven  students  who  worked  in  co-op 
answered  questions  and  gave  opinions  of 
their  work  experience.  The  meeting  took 
place  in  Room  207  of  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Third  visit 

Hunter,  cooperative  education  director 
of  Delaware  Community  College,  said  he 
felt  this  college's  program  was  a  very 
sound  and  firm  organization.  He  attributed 
much  of  the  success  of  the  program  to  the 
hard  work  done  by  William  C,  Bradshaw, 

Hunter,  who  was  making  his  third 
annual  visit,  said  he  was  pleased  at  the 
positive  attitude  the  students  were  taking 
about  getting  work  experience  while  going 
to  school . 

Started  small 

The  co-op  program  is  in  its  fourth  year 
according  to  Bradshaw,  director  of  the 


cooperative  education  program  here 

The  program  has  come  a  long  way  since 

it  first  began  in  the  fall  of  1976.  Originally 

four  students  were  entered  in  what  was 

then  called  related  work  experience. 

Numbers  increase 

Since  then,  the  program  has  grown  l( 
came  to  be  known  as  cooperative  edu- 
cation in  January  of  1977,  Forty-four 
students  were  entered  in  the  program  that 
year.  Bradshaw  said. 

As  new  employers  were  found,  both  by 
Bradshaw  and  interested  students,  the 
numbers  continued  to  increase.  This  year 
433  students  are  involved  in  co-op, 
according  to  Bradshaw. 

Employers  also  like  the  program. 
Bradshaw  said. 

Over  90  per  cent  of  the  companies  who 
take  on  students  remain  in  the  program 
and  ask  for  more  students,  he  added 

The  program  has  grown  considerably, 
Bradshaw  noted.  But,  he  said  there  is  still 
much  room  for  growth. 


SGA  meeting  held  Tuesday 


Ned  S.  Coates,  assistant  profess^ 
Monday.  The  topic  of  his  speech  ^ 
Ethic." 


-  of  English,  speaks  at  energy  seminar  last 
as  "A  Humanities  Approach  to  an  Energy 


Energy  seminar  conducted, 
eight  colleges  represented 


A  dinner  for  Student  Government  Assoc- 
iation (SGA)  senators  will  be  given  Friday 
Nov,  16,  at  the  Log  Cabin  Inn,  Senators 
must  pay  $2  for  reservations. 

However.  $1  will  be  returned  to  senators 
attending  the  dinner. 

Guests  will  be  required  to  pay  a  fee  of  $6. 

The  dinner  was  discussed  at  an  SGA, 
meeting  Tuesday,  Oct.  29. 

As  of  today,  the  SGA  house  will  open  as  a 
lounge  for  senators. 

Skating  party 
turnout  'fair' 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  i  PBD  president  Andy 
W,  Wentz  rated  the  rollerskating  party 
Thursday.  Oct,  23,  as  -fair"  despite  the 
fact  that  many  PBL  members  went  to  the 
Mummer's  parade. 

The  party  was  held  at  the  Great  Skate 
rink  in  Montoursville.  The  party  was  open 
to  all  students  of  the  College 

According  to  Wentz,  another  roller- 
skating  party  will  be  scheduled  for  De- 
cember. 


Last  Monday,  Oct  29,  the  College  hosted 
an  energy  seminar,  "Energy  and  the  way 
we  live:  a  national  issues  forum,"  The 
program  was  sponsored  by  the  American 
Association  of  Community  and  Junior 
Colleges  (AACJC)  with  funding  from  the 
National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities 
and  the  US,  Department  of  Energy 

Dr.  Russell  C,  Mauch,  dean  of  Commun- 
ity and  Continuing  Education,  said  28 
colleges  were  invited  to  send  represent- 
atives to  the  seminar,  but  only  eight 
attended  Among  those  who  attended  (he 
seminar  are:  Dr.  Fred  Fisher  and  Ms 
Nancy  Cook  of  the  Penn  State  Energy 
Extension  Service ;  Harry  Fisler  of  Penna . 
Power  and  Light;  and  Allen  Burnett  of 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corporation, 

Others  in  attendance  were:  Ms,  Janet 
Onnie-Hay  AACJC  program  associate, 
and  Ms.  Bernice  Regunberg,  regional  co- 
ordinator from  Dutchess  Community 
College  in  New  York.  Representatives 
from  area  community  colleges  were: 
Joseph  Brinneler,  Community  College  of 

New  York  trips 
planned  for  Dec. 

According  to  Mrs  Jo  Anne  Fremlotti, 
student  activities  assistant— there  will  be 
two  trips  to  New  York  during  December 

The  trips  will  be  on  Dec.  8  and  Dec,  15 

The  trips  will  cost  $1.3  for  students,  fac- 
ulty staff  and  alumni,  and  $17  for  the 
general  public  The  buses  will  leave  Bardo 
Gym  for  New  York  at  6: 30  a.m.  and  will  re- 
turn to  Williamsport  at  approximately  9: 30 
p.m. 

According  to  Mrs.  Fremiotti.  all  passen- 
gers will  have  the  chance  to  shop  and  take 
in  shows  while  they  are  in  New  York 

Mrs,  Fremiotti  said  the  buses  will  only 
provide  round  trip  transport  to  and  from 
New  York 


A  letter  from  Frank  Bowes  asked  SGA  to 
recommend  four  students  to  be  on  the 
Student  Activities  Fund  Committee, 

It  was  also  decided  at  the  SGA  meeting 
to  give  money  to  the  alumni,  who  will  use  it 
to  provide  an  activity  for  December  grad- 
uates. 

Spring  Event  was  also  discussed  at  the 
meeting. 

The  next  SGA  meeting  will  be  Tuesday 
Nov,  13.  4  p.m..  Room  132.  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center 

New  hours  disclosed   for  reading,  math  labs 

8:30  am.  to  4:30  p.m..  with  evening  hours 
on  Monday  until  7:30  p.m,,  and  Thursdays 
from6:45to8:30p,m. 


Allegheny;  Dr.  Nelson  Kline.  Bucks 
County  Community  College.  Dr  Orvan 
Peterson,  Butler  County  Community 
College;  Dr,  Gerald  E,  Humiston,  Harcum 
Junior  College,  Bob  Artz,  Lehigh  County 
Community  College;  Joe  Segilia,  Luzerne 
County  Community  College,  Prof,  Douglas 
E.  Heath.  Northampton  County  Area  Com- 
munity College:  and  Dennis  Nurkiewicz. 
Penn  State  -  Fayette  Campus. 

Dr  William  Feddersen,  college 
president.  Dr.  William  Homisak,  assistant 
to  the  president.  Prof  NedS  Coates  of  the 
College  English  section,  and  Dr  Russell  C. 
Mauch  also  participated  in  the  seminar. 

The  seminar  was  held  in  the  Conference 
Room  of  Unite,  and  ran  from  8:30  a.m.  till 
3p,m, 

The  Food  and  Hospitahty  students  of  the 
College  catered  lunch  for  the  guests.  Dr. 
Mauch  said  the  group  did  an  "outstanding 
job"  and  he  was  "very  pleased"  with  the 
performance  of  Kimberly  Fox,  who  aided 
in  the  lunch  coordination. 

Fall  Foliage 
is  this 
Wednesday 

A  dance  sponsored  by  the  Food  and  Hos- 
pitality (FH)  Club  will  be  held  in  the  Lair 
from  9  pm,  to  12  pm,  Wednesday,  accord- 
ing to  Miss  Donna  E.  Houseknecht,  dance 
committee  chairman 

The  Fall  Foliage  Fling,  the  name  the 
club  has  chosen  for  the  dance,  will  feature 
Dream  Weaver  Sound  System  Fee  for  the 
dance  will  be  $1.  Miss  Houseknecht  said. 

Refreshments  will  be  available  at  the 
dance.  Miss  Houseknecht  added  The  FH 
will  sell  pizza  and  beverage  at  a  price 
which  has  not  been  determined 


Fling 


New  hours  for  the  developmental  study 
labs  have  been  disclosed  by  Miss  Margaret 
A,  Thompson,  developmental  studies  co- 
ordinator. 

The  learning  center  in  the  Rishel  Build- 
ing is  open  Monday  through  Friday  from 

Wentz  also  stated  that  the  PBL  section  of 
the  Lycoming  Mai!  Haunted  House  made 
"good  money"  for  the  March  of  Dimes, 
This  project  was  sponsored  at  the  Mall 
from  Friday.  Oct,  19  until  last  Wednesday. 
Oct,  31,  Halloween, 


The  other  lab  located  in  Room  40.5  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center,  is  open  from  8 
a.m,  to  9  p.m.  Monday  through  Friday 


The  saying,  "He  got  out  of  bed  on  the 
wrong  side"  probably  had  its  origin  in  a 
bebef  that  the  right  side  is  the  good  one 
and  the  left  is  the  evil  side. 


C&C 
SUBS 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Page  6                        SPOTLIGHT 

Nov.  5.  1979 

'2f 

r    1 

•    • 
• 

- 

-^ 

ILIW^ 

^1^>I1 

i^ 

WORLD  OF  WORK 


The  Health  Assistants  <  liih  ^;ol  into  Ihe  atl  lust  Wednesday 
with  a  Halloween  Bake  Salt- 


Small  <-iij;iiir  repair 
inslrurl(»rs()<)t  open 

An  opening  for  a  small  engine  repair  in- 
structor at  the  College  was  reported  by 
Linda  Morris,  director  of  personnel  ser- 
vices. 

The  announcement  stated  the  deadline 
for  applications  was  Nov  2  and  the  start- 
ing date  for  the  person  hired  will  be 
Monday,  Nov,  12, 

Hermit  crabs  have  a  mass  of  nerve  cells 
with  a  main  nerve  cord  attached  and  split 
behind  the  brain  to  make  chains  of  nerve 
fibers. 

The  first  municipal  motor  bus  service  in 
the  world  was  inaugurated  on  April  12, 
1903,  between  the  Eastbourne  railway  sta- 
tion and  Meads.  East  Sussex,  in  England, 


Wascher's 

Chiropractic 

Center  ot  Life 

_jg^ 

David  G  Waschei 

k'^' 

Chitopractoi 

m 

IW>  Mill  Lane 

Williamsport,  Pi. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

Bv  Appointment  Only 

MAMA  G'S 
PIZZA 


•ur  own 

hom<niad« 

dOugh  A  tauc* 

dally 


PIZZA 
WHOLE  OH  BY  THE  CUT 

•  HOAGIES  S  OTHER  SANDWICHES 

•  SHORT  ORDERS 

CHICKEN  -  ONION  RINGS 
SHRIMP  -  FRENCH  FRIES 

piNE  IN  OR  TAKE  OUT 


326-7808 


>  AMPLE  FREE  PARKING  - 


Veterans  specialist  joins 
Records  Office  team 

Mrs,  Vicki  L,  Johnson,  a  veterans  affairs 
specialist,  has  been  added  to  the  Records 
Office  staff,  according  to  Kathryn  M, 
Marcello,  director, 

Mrs,  Johnson,  who  started  Tuesday,  Oct. 
23,  will  assist  veterans  interested  in 
attending  the  College  as  well  as  those 
currently  enrolled, 

■"A  reminder  to  all  veterans  scheduling 
for  (he  sprmg  term;  you  are  to  bring  a 
copy  of  your  schedule  to  me  as  soon  as  it 
has  been  signed  by  your  advisor,"  she 
said 

"U  IS  imporlanl  lo  schedule  soon  so  the 
proper  paper  work  is  completed  early," 
she  added 

For  more  information,  veterans  can 
contact  Mrs,  Johnson  in  the  Records  Office 
between  8  am.  and  4  p.m.  Monday  through 
Friday 

Engineering  club  to  hold 
seminar  next  Monday 

Advisor  for  SME.  Chalmer  C,  Van  Horn, 
said  anyone  interested  in  attending  this 
meeting,  as  well  as  the  dinner  preceding 
the  lecture,  should  contact  him  in  the 
draftmgroomofUnite, 

The  college's  student  chapter  of  the 
Society  of  Manufacturing  and  Engineering 
(SME)  will  attend  a  seminar  next  Monday. 
Nov  12.  at  the  Angus  Inn  near  Hughes- 
ville 

The  speaker,  Thomas  Ballock,  of 
Gidding  and  Lewis  Electronics,  will  give 
an  informal  talk  on  "Considerations  in 
Numerical  Control  Applications  " 


MIKE'S 

AMUSEMENT 

CENTER 

1025  W.  4th  St. 

PINBALL 

and 

POOL  TABLES 

Open . . . 

Mon.  IhiuFii.Zloll 

Satuidaif  11  to  11 

Sunday  S  to  10 


/.i-liVit'.  for  II  nrl.l  „f  II  ,„k  .m-  ,,r,n„h,l  l.i 
•Imomfill  DfJK-:  Hiinm  2W.  Khwi/i   4rwlrti 


nk  J.  /I..i..>.  ./.r...l„r.  (.../^.r 
riih-r   //i,ii/im.»  Ji.mhl  l,i-  ,li- 


CAMPUS  RECRUITING 


Eastman  Kodak,  of  Rochester.  New  York  will  be  on  campus  Tuesday.  Nov  S, 
from  9  am  to  '.  recruiting  Computer  programmers.  Electrical  technicians, 
Electronic  technicians.  Engineering  and  Mechanical  Draftsmen  and  Tool  De- 
signers. Group  meeting  at  9  a  m.  KJump  Academic  Center  Auditorium 

Leighton  Industries.  Phoenixville,  Pa,  will  be  on  campus  Wednesday.  Nov.  7, 
at  3:30  p. m  to '^.  recruiting  welders  in  Room  4B-1.  basement  of  Machine  Shop. 

J&B  Precision  Machine.  Hatfield.  Pa.,  will  be  on  campus  on  Tuesday.  Nov. 
13,  recruiting  for  Machine  General  and  Toolmaking  Technicians  from  I  p.m.  to 
■>,  in  Room  137.  Klump  Academic  Center 

Becktel  Power.  Berwick,  Pa  .  will  be  on  campus  Thursday,  Nov  15,  recruiting 
Electrical  Technicians,  Electronic  Technicians,  Engineering  and  Mechanical 
Draftsmen,  Electrical  Construction  and  Civil  Technician,  Room  137  and  138, 
Klump  Academic  Center  Group  meeting  at  9  am  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

CAREER 

Mechanical  or  Engineering  Draftsperson  -  Corning  Glass.  One  Jackson 
Street,  Wellsboro,  Pa,,  16901,  Contact  Mr,  AH,  Jesse  Hines. 

lompuler  Programmer  -  Penn  House  Furniture,  137  N  10th  Street,  Lewis- 
burg,  Pa, ,  17037,  Contact  Mr.  Bob  Coolidge, 

Computer  operator  -  J  P,  Ward  Foundry,  Blossburg.  Pa.,  16912.  Contact  Mr, 
RolonJoyal  at  717-638-2131, 

Food  &  Hospitality  Management  -  Jersey  Shore  Hospital.  Thompson  Street, 
Jersey  Shore,  Pa,,  17740,  Contact  Ms,  Pam  Stackholtzat  717-398-0101, 

Machinist  General  or  Toolmaker  technician  -  J  &B  Precision  Machine,  Inc. 
3020  Bethehem  Pike.  Hatfield,  Pa  ,  19440  Contact  Mr.  Ben  Brower  at  215-822- 
1400  or  2500 

Secretarial  -  Hope  Enterprises,  Adult  Training  Services  Program  at  the 
Rehabilitation  Workshop,  Reach  Road.  Apply  School  of  Hope,  1536  Catherine 
Street,  Willianlsport  or  call  326-3745, 

LPN  -  to  assist  surgical  dentist.  Experience  preferred.  Call  after  5  p  m.,  322- 
1737, 

Programmer-NCR -experience.  Responsible  for  maintenance  of  existing  pro- 
grams and  developing  new  batch  programs  for  a  Criterian  8450  Write:  Director 
of  Data  Processing,  P,0.,  Box  248,  Sunbury.  Pa,  17801. 

Secretary  -  Medical  Secretary;  good  typing  and  shorthand  skills,  medical 
terminology  and  ability  to  take  minutes  at  meetings.  Contact  Personnel  Dept., 
Williamsport  Hospital,  777  Rural  Avenue.  Call  322-7861,  ext.  3826. 

LPN  - 11  lo  7  shift.  Call  323-8782  between  the  hours  of  8  a.m.  and  4  p.m.  daily. 
The  Williamsport  Home 

Electrical  Technician  -  Keystone  Carbon  Co,,  1935  States  Street,  St.  Mary's, 
Pa.,  15857.  Contact  Mr.  Denny  Lindberg,  814-781-1591. 

Electrical  technician  ■  Stockpole  Carbon  Co  ,  St  Marys,  Pa.,  15857,  Contact 
Mr  DanBurfield 

Service  and  Operation  of  Heavy  Equipment  -  E  Tetz  &  Sons,  Inc..  R  D  #2, 
Middletown,  New  York  10940.  Contact  Mr,  Ed  Tetz.  Jr,,  914-692-4486  or  4488, 

Mechanical  or  Engineering  Draftsperson  -  Girton  Manufacturing,  Mtllville, 
Pa,  17846.  Contact  Mr,  Ed  Remener  at  717-458-5521, 

Graphic  Arts  and  Journalism  -  MaCrea  Smith  Publishing  Co.,  Routes  54  &  old 
147,  Turbotville.  Pa,,  17772,  Contact  Mr,  Richard  Fenstermacher  at  717-649- 
5103, 

Bookkeeper-Office  Manager  for  a  Medium  size  local  retailer.  Must  be 
familiar  with  all  facets  of  bookkeeping  and  should  have  some  elctronic  book- 
keeping experience-  Send  resume  and  earliest  employment  date  to  Box  K-31 
Sun  Gazette, 

Accountant-immediate  opening  for  qualified  individual  with  experience  in 
accounting  and  accounts  payable.  Associate  degree  in  accounting  or  business 
desirable.  Contact  Personnel  Department.  Williamsport  Hospital,  777  Rural 
Ave,  Williamsport,  or  call  322-7861,  ext  3826, 

Bi-Co.  Machine  and  Tool,  Phillipsburg,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Machinist.  If  inter- 
ested call  Mr,  Arnold  Keller  at  814-342-0198. 

Williamsport  Area  School  District,  is  in  need  of  Auto  Mechanic,  If  interested 
call  Mr,  Edward  Blackburn, 

Hub  Surgical,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  LPN.  If  interested  call  Mr. 
Koser  at  322-6154. 

Temp.  Force,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Secretary,  If  interested  call  Ms. 
Carol  King, 

Mutual  Of  Omaha.  Williamsport,  Pa,,  is 
Business  Accounting  student.  If  interested  < 

Scaife  Valley  Press,  Williamsport,  Pa,,  is  ii 
interested  call  Mr  Sam  Scaife  at  322-3132 

Woodbury  Fruit  Farms,  Dunkirk,  N,Y,,  is 
terested  call  Mr.  Phil  Leonard  at  716-679-1708 


I  need  of  Business  Management  or 

II  Mr,  Rod  Walts  at  3261724, 

n  need  of  Graphic  Arts  students.  If 


1  need  of  Nursery  Manager.  If  in- 


PART-TIME 


Hub  Surgical.  Williamsport.  Pa,,  is  in  need  of  Tvpist.  If  interested  call  322- 
6154, 

Bill  Newcomer  Contracting,  is  in  need  of  Carpenters,  If  interested  call  322- 
3175  ask  for  Sue  Hughes 

Sycamore  Nursing  Home,  Montoursville,  Pa.,  is  in  need  of  Kitchen  Help,  If  in- 
terested call  323-2037  ask  for  Bill  Assad, 

Information  about  the  preceding  jobs  may  be  obtained  in  the  Placement 
Office,  Room  209  Klump  Academic  Center,  Mr  Frank  Bowes,  Director. 

Babysitter  ■  no  weekends,  in  home,  2  children,  call  322-0134, 

Babysitter  -  home,  2nd  shift  Call  between  10a  m  and  1pm,  3220134 

Sales  -  Outdoor  Equipment  Store  desires  to  hire  person  with  backpacking  and 

Cross  Country  skiing  background.  Call  326-6537  for  appointment 
Waitresses  and  Waiters,  4  nights  per  week  for  Diamond  Lite  Steak  House  and 

Cocktail  Lounge  Phone  998-2479 


SPORTS 

Wrestling  team  faces 

challenge  this  year: 

11  past  winning  seasons 


By  Larrv  Steele 
Starr  Writer 

With  a  strong  nucleus  of  seven  returning 
leltermen.  this  year's  wrestling  team  will 
be  trying  to  improve  on  last  year's  banner 
year,  said  Max  G,  Wasson.  coach-  The 
team  went  9-3  in  dual  meets  and  also 
captured  both  the  conference  and 
conference  tournament  championships 
last  year,  he  said. 

First  meet 

The  team  opens  the  season  with  a  two- 
day  tournament  held  at  Corning  Commun- 
ity College.  The  tournament  will  be  Friday 
and  Saturday,  Nov.  16  and  17. 

The  first  dual  meet  of  the  year  will  be 
Tuesday,  Nov.  27,  against  the  Mansfiel^ 
State  junior  varsity  team  at  Mansfield. 
Il-year  winning  streak 

All  the  returning  lettermen  wrestled  at 

Women's  hockey 
season  ends 

B>  Jackie  Cardeiie 
Staff  Writer 

The  women's  field  hockey  team  ended 
their  season  with  a  1-4  record  when  they 
were  defeated  by  Bucks  County  Commun- 
ity College  Oct.  19.  The  game  was  held  at 
Bucks. 

According  to  Marti  Bryant,  field  hockey 
coach,  the  game  date  was  originally  set  for 
Oct.  2.  but  was  cancelled  due  to  inclement 
weather, 

Bucks  County  is  tied  with  Montgomery 
County  Community  College,  for  the  num- 
ber one  seat  in  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  Conference 
(EPCCACt.  The  Lady  Wildcat's  finished 
third  defeating  Northampton  County 
Community  College. 

Coach  Bryant  noted  the  team  played 
excellent  defense,  against  Bucks,  by  hold- 
ing off  Buck's  first  goal  late  in  the  first 
half  Jerri  L.  Womeldorf.  the  team's  goal- 
ie, had  13  saves.  She  is  tied  with  last  year's 
record  of  46  goals  for  the  season. 

Team  captain  Janet  M ,  Kreamer.  scored 
the  team's  only  goal  early  in  the  second 
period. 

Cathi  J.  Leitzel,  left  inner,  scored  the 
most  goals  this  season,  with  a  total  of  five 
goals 

Although  the  team  did  not  come  out  on 
top.  Coach  Bryant  was  still  confident.  She 
enthusiastically  stated,  "We  had  a  better 
season  than  last  year.  1  hope  they  all  come 
back,  and  they  are  just  fantastic!  " 

To  end  the  season.  Coach  Bryant  had  a 
lasagna  dinner  Thursday.  Nov.  i,  at  her 
home  for  all  the  members  of  the  team. 

Wildcat  cross-country 
place  third  in  conference 

The  Wildcat's  cross-country  team 
placed  third  in  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  Conference 
(EPCCACl  tournament.  The  Tournament 
was  held  at  Bucks  County  Community 
CollegeSaturday.Oct.25. 

According  to  David  Houseknecht,  cross- 
country coach,  the  top  five  runners 
combined  for  the  final  score  of  70.  Those 
runners  were  Steven  E.  Yoder.  (SO); 
Robert  W.  Johnson,  (EW);  Robert  D. 
Fultz.  (MD);  Len  R.  Maguire,  (CB);  and 
William  Hicker.  Richard  J.  Robmson. 
IBM),  also  finished. 


least  one  varsity  match  last  year.  The 
returnees  with  their  tenative  weight 
classes  for  this  year  are:  Robert  E  Wen- 
rick,  118;  David  W.  Catherman,  126;  David 
C  Dinger.  134;  and  David  A.  Hurd.  142, 

The  returning  upperweights  are  Terry 
C.  Rosini.  177;  David  W  Swanger,  177;  and 
Thomas  S.  Husler.  190. 

The  wrestling  team  has  not  had  a  losmg 
season  under  head  coach  Max  G.  Wasson. 
now  entering  his  eleventh  year.  In  the  past 
10  years,  the  team  has  compiled  a  record 
of  72  wins.  31  losses,  and  two  ties.  It  has 
also  won  the  conference  six  times  during 
that  period. 

Coach  Wasson  said  this  year's  squad  is 
"promising"  as  it  heads  into  what  is 
possibly  its  toughest  schedule  ever. 

Nine  interested 
female  students 
attend  meeting 

A  meeting  was  held  Thursday.  Oct.  25,  at 
4  p.m.  for  students  interested  in  women's 
varsity  basketball.  According  to  Mrs. 
Kathy  Revello,  basketball  coach,  nine 
girls  attended  the  meeting 

A  syllabus  was  given  to  the  girls  stating 
rules,  drills  and  exercises  which  are  to  be 
upheld  during  the  season.  Mrs,  Revello 
said 

Practice  begins  today  at  4  p.m.  and  will 
be  held  in  the  Bardo  Gym  There  are  12 
positions  for  the  basketball  team,  Mrs 
Revello  said  any  girl  who  is  still  interested 
is  to  attend  practice  and  bring  appropriate 
dress. 

The  women's  first  game  is  against  the 
Community  College  of  Philadelphia. 
Saturday  Dec.  I,  at  1  p.m.  The  game  is  to 
be  played  on  the  Lady  Wildcat's  home 
floor 

Manikowski 
says  basketball 
team  'has  hustle' 

This  year's  basketball  squad  lacks 
height  but  has  a  lot  of  hustle,  said  first- 
year  coach  Larry  J.  Manikowski. 

Today,  the  team  will  travel  to  Williams- 
port.  They  also  will  scrimmage  Mansfield 
State  College  next  Wednesday  and  Thurs- 
day at  Mansfield,  according  to  Manikow- 
ski. 

Twenty  students  are  currently  on  the 
squad,  according  to  Manikowski  The 
number  must  be  cut  to  15  before  the 
beginning  of  the  season,  with  only  12 
members  going  to  away  games. 

Manikowski  said  this  year's  team  should 
feature  a  ball  control  offense,  one  which 
passes  the  ball  around  to  get  a  high  per- 
centage shot. 

The  Wildcats  will  open  their  season  on 
the  road  They  will  travel  to  Delaware 
Community  College  Wednesday  Nov  28 
for  the  season  opener 

The  Pittsburgh  Steelers  is  the  only  foot- 
ball team  to  win  the  Super  Bowl  three 
times. 


*^  ^C^  s? ' 


Nov  5.  1979  SPOTLIGHT 

TONIGHT! 


^^"^ Cinema  Club 

presents 


What  would  you 

do  if  God 

came  back  to  earth 

and  contacted 

you  to  tell 

you  that  the  world 

can  work! 


A  lERRVWEINTRAUB  PRODUCTION 

GEORGE  BURNS  -  JOHN  DENVER  -   OH.  GOD' 

TERI GARR  '  DONALD  PLEASENCE 

Based  on  Ihe  Nouel  by  AVERY  CORMAN 

Screenplay  by  LARRV  GELBART 

Directed  by  CARL  REINER  •  Produced  by  JERRY  WEINTRAOB 


"Joha  Dmvar  is 


"I  lev«d  avary  MiMif*  •! 
H.  So  wHI  yaw." 


7:30  P.M. 
Klump  Academic  Center 

$1.00 

Next  Week: 

Go  Tell  The  Spartans 

Graphic  film  of  U.S.  involvenment  in  the  Vietnam  War. 
(uncensored  version) 

In  Two  Weeks: 

The  Wild  Bunch 


Pages 


allpndril  Ihr  Tol  Watch  llallowc-pn  party  held  last  Wedncsda; 
rious  Karnes  and  enjoyed  a  Halloween  feast  ol  candy,  apple 


Bloodmobile  visits 
response  'terrific' 


"Sludenl's  cooperation  has  been  super!"' 
exclaimed  Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Arnold,  blood 
service  coordinator  for  the  Red  Cross 
bloodmobile 

"The  response  has  been  lerrific,"  she 
said  "and  we  can  only  hope  the  response 
tomorrow  is  as  good," 

The  Bloodmobile  visited  Ihe  college  last 
Wednesday.  Oct.  31  and  Thursday.  Nov.  1. 

Although  Mrs.  Arnold  did  not  have 
actual  figures  last  week  she  did  say  "as  of 
today,  there  have  been  al  least  two  people 
who  have  reached  the  two  gallon  mark  in 
donations," 

The  most  unusual  event  of  the  day  was 
when  Dr.  David  M   Heiney,  dean  for  stu- 

Gun  club  begins, 
safety  emphasis 

The  College  Rifle  and  Pistol  Club  held  its 
organizational  meeting  last  Monday  night, 
Oct.  29.  in  Room  221  of  the  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center,  according  to  David  B 
Clark,  club  marksmanship  advisor- 
Clark  said  officers  were  elected  and  the 
intent  of  the  club  was  thoroughly  dis- 
cussed. 

Officers  are.  President  -  Lynn  A.  Ede- 
burn.  Radiology  Technician  student  from 
ritusville.  Pa,,  Vice-president  -  David  C 
Cristie.  Diesel  Machanics  student  from 
New  Cumberland.  Pa..  Secretary  -  John 
A.  Yedlowski.  Carpentry  and  Building 
Technology  student  from  Freeport.  Pa.. 
Treasurer  •-  Dana  B,  Carver,  Aviation 
Technology  student  from  Mechanicsburg. 
Pa 

Clark  said.  "The  basic  intent  of  the  club 
is  to  encourage  the  shooting  of  rifles  or 
pistols  under  carefully  controlled  situ- 
ations with  emphasis  on  safety  and  marks- 
manship." 

The  next  scheduled  meeting  is  Nov  12. 
according  to  Clark. 

PBL  c..uf.".'-'/;-"'/v./ 

Lori  M  Beaver,  float  chairperson,  was 
in  charge  of  the  prize-winning  project.  She 
deserves  a  lot  of  credit,  said  PBL 
members  Victoria  L  Callahan  and 
Pamela  H  Hill, 

Special  thanks  were  extended  by  PBL  to 
Ray  Smith,  who  provided  the  trailer,  and 
garage  for  the  float ,  Smith  pulled  the  float 
through  the  parade  with  his  truck,  PBL 
president  Andy  W,  Wentz  said  he  was  very 
grateful  for  this  help 

The  fastest  current  production  car  is  the 
Ferrari  BE  Berlinetta  Boxer,  with  a  top 
speed  of  lS8mpb 


dent  and  career  development  visited  the 
"bloodmobile  "  dressed  as  a  ghost.  His 
visit  in  costume  was  quite  unexpected,  she 
said. 

Dr.  Heiney  is  on  the  Red  Cross  board  of 
dirrctors  for  the  Williamsport  Division. 

"The  'drive'  started  on  time."  she  said, 
"and  we  had  lots  of  cooperation  from  the 
students  in  setting  up  which  was  really 
appreciated." 

"We  would  like  to  extend  a  special  thank 
you  to  the  students,  coordinators  of  the 
program,  and  to  the  faculty  for  all  their 
assistance,"  said  Mrs,  Arnold. 

"We  appreciated  everyone's  help."  she 
added 

'Your  Own  Bag^ 
second  session 
will  be  Friday 

The  second  "Your  Own  Bag"  session 
will  be  held  from  noon  tol  pm,,  this  Friday 
in  Room  415.  Klump  Academic  Center 
According  to  Dr.  Richard  M,  Sweeney,  the 
featured  speaker  will  be  Susan  Brooke, 
Mrs.  Brooke  is  a  feature  writer  for  the 
Bloomsburg  Morning  Press, 

Dr.  Sweeney  said  that  he  would  like  to 
see  comparisons  drawn  between  large  and 
small  newspapers. 

Retailing  class  takes 
"educationar  trip  to  NYC 

A  trip  of  Ihe  Retailing  H  class  to  New 
York  City  was  "educational."  said  class 
member  Maynard  C,  Butterworth, 

The  class,  with  advisors  Robert  L.  Lyons 
and  Thomas  C  Leitzel.  traveled  to  NYC  on 
Oct.  I5andl6. 

The  group  toured  businesses,  including 
Bloomingdale's  and  Macy's  to  observe 
merchandising  practices  in  the  city. 

Graphic  Arts  fraternity 
holds  bake  sale 

Gamma  EpsilonTau  (GET)  held  a  bake 
sale  last  Tuesday,  Oct,  30.  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  lobby,  Roy  A.  Hicks. 
GET  vice  president,  said  the  sale,  which 
was  held  from  9  am  till  1  p.m.,  was 
"profitable," 

Hicks  added  that  GET  will  be  taking  a 
field  trip  this  Wednesday,  Nov.  14.  The  trip 
will  be  to  the  Rochester  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology iRlT)  in  New  York,  and  is  open  to 
all  Graphic  Art  (GA)  and  Advertising  Art 
(ARi  students. 

Cost  per  person  for  the  field  trip  to  RIT  is 
$13 


'Mr.  Fingers' 
to  perform 
in  November 

Magician  and  mind  reader  Irv  Weiner. 
also  known  as  "Mr  Fingers",  will  perform 
al  the  College  on  Nov  15  at  8  p  m  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center,  according  to 
Mrs  JoAnnFremiotti 

Admission  will  be  free  to  all  college  stu- 
dents with  ID  and  to  children  under  12 
yearsof  age.  she  said. 

Admission  for  the  general  public  will  be 

The  "Mr  Fingers  '  show  is  being  spon- 
sored by  Ihe  College  Special  Events  Com- 
mittee 

Irv  Weiner  was  nominated  in  1977  as 
■Lecturer  OF  THE  Year",  by  the 
Academy  of  Magical  Arts  and  was  chosen 
to  represent  artistry  in  magic  as  pari  of 
the  Hal  Holbrook  Showcase  during  the 
International  Platform  Association  con- 
vention is  Washington.  DC,  August  1978 

Irv  Weiner's  show  consists  of  the  use  of 
ESP.  Psychometry,  Thought  Reading, 
plus  Hypnotic  Influence,  Psychological 
Persuasion,  said  Mrs  Fremiotti. 

'Guess  the  day' 
contest  entries 


now  closed 

The  deadline  for  the  "Guess  the  Day" 
contest,  sponsored  by  WWAS  College  radio 
station,  was  extended  to  Friday.  Oct.  26. 
according  to  Jeffrey  1.  Bauman,  promo- 
tion director  for  WWAS, 

"As  of  that  date,  we  are  not  accepting 
any  more  entries"  said  Bauman. 

The  original  deadline  had  been  set  for 
Oct.  12  but  was  extended  to  give  more  stu- 
dents a  chance  to  enter,  said  Bauman. 

"We  stiU  don't  know  when  we'll  be  going 
FM.  but  it  will  definitely  be  before  Dec. 
31,"  he  said. 

According  to  Bauman.  the  winner  will  be 
announced  as  soon  as  the  date  is  known. 

The  prize  for  the  winner  will  be  four 
recently  released  albums  from  popular 
groups,  said  Bauman. 

The  albums  are  "The  Kids  are  Allright" 
by  The  Who;  "Better  Than  the  Rest"  by 
George  Thorogood  and  The  Destroyers; 
"Damn  the  Torpedoes"  by  Tom  Petty  and 
The  Heartbreakers;  and  "Victim  of  Love" 
by  Elton  John,  according  to  David  J. 
White,  music  director  of  WWAS. 


In  a  "smouchathon"  at  Pretoria,  South 
Africa,  Inga  Ordendaal  and  Billy  Van  Der 
Westhuizen  kissed  for  119  hours  and  12 
minutes. 

:.:.::::■:■:>::::>>::  \:<<<<^^ 


Zany  week 

<  nnunn.'.l  fn%  four  \ 

munily    College    Greaser.    King    and 

Queen", 

6  p  m  Tuesday.  Nov.  13,  there  will  be  a 
food  frenzy  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Cafateria 

Contests  including  a  spaghetti  quantity- 
eating,  timed  pie  eating,  belching,  peanut 
pushmg.  pumpkm  pushing  and  apple 
bobbing  will  take  place. 

Dance  contest 

Each  curriculum  is  allowed  to  have  one 
representative  for  each  contest  in  accord- 
ance with  decisions  made  at  the  Student 
Government  Association  (SGAi  meeting 
held  Tuesday  Oct.  29, 

King   and   Queen   contestants   will   be 

questioned   by    the   judges   at    the    food 

frenzy.    Spaghetti    dinners   will    also   be 

available  for  the  public  at  a  fee, 

Mr.  Fingers 

A  dance  will  be  held  Wednesday  Nov  14. 
8  pm  .  in  the  Bardo  Gym.  The  music  will 
be  "Soundsystem".  There  will  also  be  a 
dance  contest  for  which  $20  will  be 
awarded  to  the  best  dancing  couple. 

The  best  dressed  male  and  female 
greasers  will  also  receive  prizes. 

"Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Greasers,  King  and  Queen",  will  be 
crowned  at  the  dance  and  each  will  receive 
a  $15  prize. 

7  pm-  Wednesday,  the  volleyball  games 
between  curricuiums  continue. 

Mr.  Fingers  will  be  appearing  8  pm. 
Thursday.  Nov.  15.  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  Auditorium  to  demonstrate  magic 
and  Extra  Sensory  Perception.  Mr. 
Fingers  is  being  presented  by  the  Special 
Events  Committee, 

Swimming  contests 

Volleyball  playoffs  will  be  held  10  p.m. 
Thursday,  in  the  gym.  A  trophy  will  be 
presented  to  the  winning  team. 

Swimming  will  l>e  held  7  to  8  p.m.  Thurs- 
day, at  the  YWCA.  There  will  be  six 
contests  held 

Spoon  relay,  ping-pong  blow,  newspaper 
swim,  free  style,  underwater  distance,  and 
backstroke  swimming. 

Four  representatives  for  Spoon  relay 
and  ping-pong  blow  and  one  representative 
(or  the  other  contests  are  allowed  to  par- 
ticipate according  to  rules  set  by  the  SGA, 
Points 

Points  will  be  given  at  each  event  for 
position  scored. 

The  curriculum  earning  the  most  points 
will  be  given  a  prize. 

The  point  system  is  as  follows: 

Volleyball.  15  points  for  first  place.  10 
points  for  second,  five  points  for  third  and 
three  points  for  fourth. 

Best  dressed  male  and  female  greaser. 
10  points  for  first  place,  five  points  for 
second  place  and  three  points  for  third 

Points  for  food  and  swimming  events  are 
five  pnints  for  first,  three  points  for  second 
and  line  iKiirit  for  third. 


Bulletin  Board 

MEETINGS 

Gamma  EpsilonTau.  4  pm.  Tomorrow,  Frat  Room,  Unite. 
MOVIE 
"Oh  God"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial,  chapter  9,  7:30  tonight.  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center  Auditorium.  $1  with  student  ID. 

SPORTSMANSHIP  WEEK 
7  p.m..  Tonight.  American  Red  Cross.  Basic  First  Aid  lecture.  Room  402. 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

7  pm  .  Tomorrow,  Robert  Lesher,  turkey  hunting  information,  demon- 
stration and  display. 

7  pm,,  Wednesday.  Dennis  Dunsza.  game  commissioner,  will  show  a  film  and 
lecture  on  Pa,  State  Game  Lands, 

7  p.m.,  Thursday,  Michael  Slease,  will  lecture,  demonstrate  and  display  Pa, 
long  rifles,  powder  horns  and  accouterments. 

CONFEKENCE 
Phi  Beta  Lambda  Eastern  Regional  Leadership,  Friday,  off  campus. 

DANCE 
"Dream  Weaver  Soundsystem",  9p  m -12  midnight  Wednesday.  Lair  Spon- 
sored b\  Food  and  Hospitalitv 

TRIP 
Outing  Club  overnight  hiking  trip  Saturday  to  Sunday 


\' 


"4  p.m.  -  Car  Smash -''^l^ 

Between  Units  29  and  30^^  "6  p.m.  -  BoJlfire 

_                         J  r     I  ¥          J        I J  Presentation  of  Candidates 

—  7  p.m.   -    V  Olleybali  for  Greaser  King  &  Queen 

Battle  a  out!  Between  Units  29  &  30 
Bardo  Gym 


y 


i^' 


\o^' 


ott^'^- 


CI 

-6 p.m.  -  Food  Frenzy    ^IP 


KAC  Cafeteria 

.  .  .  Spaghetti  eating! 

.  .  .  Pie  eating! 

.  .  .  Belching! 

.  .  .  Peanut  Push! 

.  .  .  Pumpkin  Push! 

.  .  .  Apple  bobbing. 


Thursdayl 


im 


?'-'.?&S- Su,i, 


\ 


issocii 


"10 p.m.  -  Volleyball  Finals 

Wheiv!  Who  will  be  strongest?         Bardo  Gy«^ 


Vr* 


Page? 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

Q    Q 


who  is  America's  greatest  living  hero? 


n 


Photos 
ByOwightE.  Sch 


Barry  L.  Gardner,  Of  Mill  Hall,  business     Roll    H.     Rupprecht,     of     Soutfi     Debi    A.    Ensingor,    of    Willlamsport,     Gerald  D.  Smith, 

management  "Ted  Kennedy  ■■  Williamsport.  business  management        general  studies  "I  can't  think  of  one  "     management: 

"Henry  Kissinger  "  none  " 


of  Avis,   business 
ttiere    really    are 


H 


This  week's  question  was  asked 
at  the  College  Library. 


Harold    A.    Goose,    of    Williamsport, 
SPOTLIGHT    mascot  "Mother 

Goose  " 


Annita  Lawton,  of  Wellsboro. 
business  administration  and  business 
management:  "Bob  Hope  because 
of  all  the  charities  he  does  " 


Book  review 

"Exit  Sherlock  Holmes" 

ByJohnZelewici 
SlofI  Writer 

'Exit  Sherlock  Holmes  '  by  Robert  Lee  Hall  is  o  book  which  throws  o 
different  perspective  on  the  fomous  duo  that  Sir  Arthur  Conon  Ooyle 
created. 

Holmes  finds  himself  once  ogoin  pitted  against  his  formidoble 
adversary,  Professor  Moriority. 

Holmes  moves  out  of  his  residence  at  221 B  Boker  Street  and  London. 
Watson  seeks  out  his  friend  with  the  odeptness  that  only  Holmes  could 
disploy. 

Watson  suddenly  finds  himself  plunged  into  a  world  of  intrigue 
where  he  discovers  that  his  best  friend  hos  lied  to  him  about  his  past. 

Watson  olso  comes  foce  to  foce  with  Holmes  adversary  and  risks  his 
life  to  reach  Holmes  before  Moriority  can  destroy  him. 

The  book  weaves  a  world  of  intrigue  that  concludes  with  a  surprise 
ending. 

The  stunning  conclusion  is  best  described  by  the  famous  detective 
himself,  "infinitely  stronger  than  anything  which  the  mind  of  man 
could  invent. 


VIEWPOINT 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbio  Scholastic  Press  Assn.  Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  puhiished  weekly  throughout  the  acaden 

except  for  officiol  college  vacations,  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students   Office 

Room  7,  Klump  Academic  Center  (basement)   Telephor 

326-3761,  Extension  221. 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assn. 

Member,  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Assn. 

Monoging  Editor  , 

Campus  Editor 

Associate  Compos  Editor  j 

Photography  Editor 

Senior  Staff  Reporter 

fieporters    Roberf  J    Allen    Donno  I     Ginfer     Thereso 

Brian  M    Bippey,   lejlie  fA     Rogers,    Trudy  M     Shively 

Sfeefe  tarry  G   Steeie.  Robert  i    Thomos,  Chrisfmo  N    V , 

Staff  Artists Gerald  J.  Rexer,  Michael  Lekites 

Contributing  Reporter Go./  M    Thompson 

StoHAssislont T.mothyA    Joth 

Production  loom  This  Issue.  Mollis  Zelawki.  supervisor:  Johnl.  RIckerl.  Brian  M.  Rip. 
pey.  Leslie  M.  Rogers,  ond  Trudy  M,  Shively. 


Editorial 

I 


:  year. 


(717) 


Mollie  Ze/ew.C7 

ohn  F   Ze'ewicz 
time  J  Cordene 

DwtghtE   Schmucfc 

8rodE   English 

MacKemie    John  i     Rickerl 
Zmdy  M     Snook.    Kimberly  A 


m 
III 


Think  before  parking 


Nov  12.1979 

Dieticians  cater 


SPOTLIGHT  Page  3 

PBL  members  attend 


five  luncheons  leadership  conference 


Work  continues  on  the  new  buildings  between  Unit  6  and  the  Bardo  gym. 

Hospital  aides 
slated  to  speak 

Two  assistant  directors  from  area  hos- 
pitals will  speak  on  campus  this  week, 
according  to  Mrs.  Vivian  P,  Moon,  advisor 
of  the  Food  and  Hospitality  Organization 

Ralph  DeCrj  stof  o  ro  will  speak  in  Room 
105.  Klump  Academic  Center  this  after 
noon  from  :jto4.said  Mrs  Moon, 

Smith  Rudasiel  will  talk  Thursday  from 
3  to  4  p.m.  in  Room  105. 

Mrs.  Moon  said  the  men  will  discuss 
several  topics;  history  of  Williamsport, 
organization  at  the  hospital,  requirements 
for  practicing  physicians,  and  screening 
for  hiring. 

Anyone  interested  in  hearing  either  talk 
IS  welcome.  Mrs.  Moon  said, 

Mrs.  Moon  reported  that  the  Pood  and 
Hospitality  advisory  committee  met 
Monday.  Nov,  5  The  group  discussed  de- 
partment projects,  grants,  and  staffing. 

According  to  Mrs.  Moon,  the  committee 
consists  of  restaurant  owners,  dieticians, 
educators  of  other  colleges,  and  alumni  of 
the  program. 

All  veterans 
asked  to  bring 
schedule  copy 

"Veterans!  You  are  to  bring  a  copy  of 
your  schedule  to  me  m  the  Records  Office 
on  the  first  day  of  the  spring  semester." 
Mrs.  Vicki  L.  Johnson,  veterans  affairs 
specialist,  said  last  week 

"This  is  a  reminder  to  those  who  have 
not  already  scheduled."  said  Mrs,  John- 

"Make  sure  the  schedule  has  been 
signed  by  your  advisor  l>efore  you  come 
in. 'she said. 

For  more  information,  veterans  may 
contact  Mrs,  Johnson  in  the  Records  Office 
between  8  a.m.  and  4  p.m..  Monday 
through  Friday, 

Posters  inspire 
employe  work 

A  Fairfield.  N.J,  company  believes  the 
hard  work  of  others  can  rub  off.  And  the 
firm  (Economics  Press)  is  capitalizing  on 
the  idea  with  what  it  calls  "good  example 
posters." 

A  brochure  aimed  at  businesses  urges 
them  to  "inspire"  their  workers  with  the 
posters  And  several  examples  are  in- 
cluded. One  poster,  depicting  Thomas 
Edison,  declares:  "If  it's  worth  doing, 
keep  trying  ■■  It  notes  that  Edison 
performed  thousands  of  experiments  to 
perfect  the  light  bulb.  Another  poster  des- 
cribes how  Abraham  Lincoln,  as  Pres- 
ident, shined  his  own  boots.  "Whatever 
needs  doing.  ■  it  says,  "Doit  with  pride." 


Haiti  featured 
in  lecture-slide 
presentation 

Mrs,  Miriam  Specht  will  present  a 
lecture  and  slide  presentation  on  Haiti 
tomorrow  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center. 
Room  6,  at  7  p.m..  said  James  V.  Phillips, 
president  of  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship, 

Mrs,  Specht  is  a  member  of  the  Otter- 
bein  United  Methodist  Church  of  Sunbury, 
She  will  speak  about  her  mission  in  Haiti 
and  show  carved  artifacts  made  by  the 
people  of  the  land,  said  Phillips. 

The  presentation  will  be  open  to  all  in- 
terested persons,  said  Phillips. 


Classifieds 


WANTED  TO  BUY 

Old  smoking  pipes,  pipe  racks,  and  humidors. 
Please  call  Wayne  Miller  at  1-656-7366  col- 
lect. Or  leave  name  and  telephone  number 
with  Box  5,  The  SPOTLIGHT.  Room  7,  Klump 


The  Food  Hospitality  Organizatit 
I FHO I  has  another  busy  week  of  catering, 
according  to  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio.  super- 
visor 

Yesterday,  the  group  was  to  have  served 
a  buffet  to  a  dinner  party  of  70  people.  The 
meal  was  served  at  Dr,  David  M.  Heiney's 
home  in  Hughesville, 

The  FHO  will  travel  to  the  Earth  Science 
Building  Wednesday,  They  will  serve 
members  of  the  Society  of  American 
Forestry,  Mrs.  Miglio  said. 

An  "elegant  dinner"  party  will  be  served 
by  the  group  Saturday,  in  Loyalsock,  It 
will  be  served  at  the  home  of  Dr.  Edmond 
A,  Walters  3rd. 

The  group  will  serve  a  function  for  Dr. 
Donald  B,  Bergerstock  at  the  College,  Mrs, 
Miglio  said  the  meal  will  be  served  in 
Room  105  of  Klump  Academic  Center. 

FHO  students  serve  meals  each  week  to 
give  them  experience  in  restaurant  work 
Different  members  cook  and  cater  at  each 
dmner.  Mrs  Miglio  said. 

W  orkshop  conducted 
this  week  on  interviewing 

Anna  Weitz,  career  development 
specialist,  reported  there  will  be  a  resume- 
writing  and  Interviewing  workshop  this 
week. 

Tomorrow,  the  seminar  will  concentrate 
on  how  to  write  a  resume  when  applying 
for  a  job.  This  is  scheduled  from  3  p,m,  to  4 
p  m..  in  Room  207.  Klump  Academic 
Center 

Wednesday,  from  3  p,m,  to  4  p,m  . 
another  seminar  in  resume  writing  will  be 
held  in  Room  207.  Klump  Academic 
Center, 

Friday.  Ms,  Weitz  said,  the  seminar  will 
conclude  with  a  seminar  on  how  lo  inter- 
view for  a  job.  This  is  scheduled  from  noon 
until  1  p.m.  in  Room  207,  Klump  Academic 
Center 

McQiiay  will  address 
Thursday's  banquet 

An  Engineering  and  Design  Technology 
Advisory  Committee  Banquet  will  he  held 
this  Thursday,  Nov.  15.  at  6:30  p,m,  in  the 
Klump  Academic  lounge  area. 

The  program  includes  remarks  from  Dr. 
Paul  L.  McQuay.  division  director,  and  Dr. 
Edmond  A  Walters  3rd,  dean  (or  degree 
and  certificate  programs,  and  dinner,  said 
McQuay , 

Lyricist  Lerner  learns 
how  not  to  handle  women 

"How  lo  Handle  a  Woman,"  is  one  of  the 
songs  from  the  Broadway  hit,  "Camelot". 
as  written  by  lyricist  Alan  Jay  Lerner 
Lerner  apparently  should  re-read  his  own 
words  A  Manhattan  judge  has  granted 
Lerner's  fourth  wife  royalities  from  one  of 
Lerner's  Broadway  hits  It's  back  alimon\ 
rding  to  the  judge 


Thirty-nine  Phi  Beta  Lambda  fPBL) 
members  attended  the  Eastern  Regional 
Phi  Beta  Lambda  Conference  last  Friday, 
Saturday,  and  Sunday.  Oct  9  to  U,  in  New 
Haven.  Conn 

According  to  PBL  reporter  Robin  A. 
Hummel,  the  College  had  the  largest  rep- 
resentation at  the  conference 

A  kick-off  dinner  for  the  participating 
members  was  held  in  the  City  View  Motel 
and  Country  House  Restaurant,  and  a 
social  time  was  held  at  the  Grampian  Hills 
Community  Room.  Tuesday  night,  Oct  6 

The  conference  dealt  with  leadership  de- 
velopment, leadership  survival  skills,  and 
project  awareness,  as  well  as  goal  setting 
and  organization. 

Board  okays 
equipment  order 

Bv  Brad  English 
Staff  Writer 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees  met  last 
Monday  night  for  its  monthly  meeting, 
covering  an  agenda  that  included  two 
action  items,  one  item  for  discussion,  and 
five  reports 

First  on  the  agenda  was  the  re-approval 
of  a  purchase  order  for  equipment  The 
order  was  issued  during  the  last  fiscal 
year,  but  the  equipment  did  not  arrive 
until  after  the  start  of  this  fiscal  year. 
Board  policy  requires  re-approval  of  any 
such  order. 

In  personnel  matters,  the  board  accept- 
ed two  resignations  and  approved  the 
termination  of  one  employee,  A  leave  of 
absence  for  childbirth  was  granted  to  Cyn- 
thia Kleinle.  reading  instructor,  develop- 
ment studies 

Other  personnel  matters  included: 

-The  extension  of  Robert  Converse's 
employment  as  a  temporary  part-time 
substitute  professional  tutor. 

—Approved  the  addition  of  10  employees 
for  various  positions  with  the  professional 
staff,  and  also  approved  the  hiring  of  nine 
people  to  the  classified/service  staff 

—Approved  the  transfer  of  E  Margaret 
Emery  from  secretary  to  the  coordinator 
of  the  capital  fund  campaign,  to  personnel 
clerk  (  H )  at  her  current  annual  salary 

The  board  also  heard  a  report  about  ren- 
ovation and  instructional  work  projects. 
The  report  was  given  by  Dean  James  O. 
Tule.  executive  assistant  lo  the  president. 

Reports  from  the  building  and  grounds 
committee,  the  personnel  committee,  the 
president  and  the  board  chairmen  were 
also  heard. 

The  next  meeting  of  the  board  of  trustees 
will  be  Monday.  Dec.  3  at  7:30  p.m.  in 
Room  204  of  the  Klump  Academic  Center 

Dinner  will  be  served  for  trustees  and 
executive  council  members  prior  to  the 
meeting  by  the  College  food  and  hospi- 
tality students 

Victor  Villimas  of  Cleveland,  Ohio, 
talked  non-stop  for  138  hours,  from  Oct  25 
toOct  31,1%7 


^^_    $1rOOO,000  

81    WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       on  sale 


N  THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 

;S:r:::^S2S«TS    preseason  SkiS-le 

■  JEANS  •  You  name  it  •  We  have  it        ^^  Cross  Country 

■  Athletic  Footwear  Aipiii 
GLOVES  •  Mittens 


Page  4 


rTLIGHT  Nov  12,  1979 

SPORTS 


Sir  Timber  nabs  championship 
in  intramural  football 
with  TD  save  by  Sherwood 

Bv  Brian  Kippcy 
SlaffWrilpr 

Jeffrey  E.  Sherwood  saved  a  long  touchdown  pass  and  inler- 
cepled  on  the  final  play  of  the  game  to  give  Sir  Timber  a  wild  1-0 
victory  over  Saw  Dusters  for  the  intramural  football  champion- 
ship. The  game  was  played  Tuesday.  Nov.  6.  behind  Unit  K. 

Larry  A.  Drake,  receiver  for  Saw  Dusters,  caught  a  long 
bomb,  but  was  caught  from  behind  by  Sherwood,  short  of  the 
goal-line. 

However.  Saw  Dusters  still  liad  lime  lo 
win  as  Ihey  llad  the  ball  first  and  goal  to  go 

with  one  minute  left  lo  plav  After  the  first  wyxy -v:^- 

down  pass  had  fallen  mcomplete  m  the  end  ^■■..rfx%.«-.«K 

/one,  the  .Saw  Dusters  rushed  to  gel  a  play  g 

off  without  a  huddle  ' 

Gary  L  l^audcman  sacked  the  quarter-  ' 

back  as  the  clock  wound  down  Again  the 
Saw  Dusters  had  to  go  without  a  huddle 
This  lime  they  just  got  Ihe  snap  away 
before  the  clock  ran  out 

Only  score 

With  no  time  remaining  on  the  clock,  the 
(luarterback  looked  into  the  end  zone  for  a 
receiver.  Instead,  he  threw  the  ball  into 
Sherwood's  arms  and  the  victory  was  pre- 
served 

Laudeman  sacked  the  Saw  Duster's 
quarterback  for  a  safely  late  in  the  first 
half.  The  score  proved  to  be  Ihe  game 
winner. 

.Sir  Timber  leads 

Sherwood  also  had  another  interception 
and  teammate  Curlis  K  Shadle  added 
another  Mark  Pintal  picked  off  a  pass  for 
the  Saw  Dusters 

Sir  Timber  led  five  to  four  in  first-downs 
and  three  to  two  in  sacks  of  the  quarter- 
back 

Saw  Dusters  had  beaten  Screaming 
Clypsy  Bandits  3-0  in  the  opening  round 
Three  consecutive  safeties,  two  by  John  I. 
Bombick  and  one  by  Daniel  W.  Wescoat, 
was  the  margin  of  victory 

Sir  Timber  downed  Wild  Bunch  18-0  as 
Stephen  R  Lokey  and  Teddy  T.  Rubrighl 
teamed  up  for  three  touchdowns  through 
the  air,  Thomas  A  Bylhell  was  the  de- 
fensive star  saving  two  touchdowns,  inter- 
cepting a  pass  and  knocking  down  three 


ntered  the  Union 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wawhei 
Chifopractoi 


1905  Mill  Unt 

Williamsporl,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

y  Appointment  Only 


c&c 

SUBS 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Wrapping  up 

field  hockey 

season 

with 

a  display 

of  action 


Vo-tech  student         Intramural  basketball 
sets  records 


Bob  McAlister.  a  machine  shop  votecK 
student,  from  Jersey  Shore  High  School, 
has  broken  some  very  important  grid  rec- 
ords. He  is  a  senior  there 

During  his  junior  campaign.  McAlister 
rushed  for  a  net  of  over  1,000  yards,  tolal- 
ing  l.OI.I  for  his  junior  season  and  pushing 
his  career  tolal.  to  1.436. 

According  to  William  K  Albright,  sports 
inlormation  consultant  at  Jersey  Shore 
High  .School.  McAlister  now  holds  the  Ly- 
coming County  rushing  mark  previously 
set  in  197G 

During  the  current  season.  McAlister 
also  surpassed  the  Jersey  Shore  career 
mark  of  2.703  set  by  Bob  'Young  in  1966  - 

I9G1! 


begins  season  tomorrow 

IM  basketball  will  open  its  season  to- 
morrow at  6.30  p  m  .  accoiding  lo  Thomas 
G-  Gray,  director  of  intramural  sports. 

A  schedule  is  posted  on  the  IM  bulletin 
board,  first  floor  of  BardoGym.  Gray  said 

Gray  said  all  games  will  be  played  in  Ihe 
BardoGym 

More  students  needed 
for  intramural  wrestling 

More  students  are  needed  to  sign  up  for 
intramural  wrestling.  According  lo 
Thomas  G  Gray,  director  of  intramural 
sports,  there  is  a  lack  of  interest  tor  IM 
wrestling. 

Rules  and  schedules  may  be  picked  up  al 
the  IM  bulletin  board,  first  floor  of  Bardo 
Gym 


&"W#.>::ft¥i>.¥:¥:*:*;i:-: 


"age  5 


One  of  the  displays  from  lasl  week's  ■Spoilsnie 
featured  in  the  lecture  on  turkeys  given  by  Robert  (i.  I.i 


Robert  Lesher 
talks  turkey 
during  'Week' 

By  Dwight  Schniuck 
Staff  Writer 

The  week  of  Nov.  5  through  9  was  Sports- 
men's Week  at  the  College.  Sportsmen's 
Week  featured  lectures  and  displays  on  the 
happenings  In  the  outdoors. 

One  of  the  lectures  was  given  by  Roberl 
G  Lesher  on  turkeys  and  turkey  hunting 

Lesher,  the  assistant  superintendeni  of 
schools  for  the  South  Williamsport  Area 
School  District,  said  he  has  been  an  avid 
turkey  hunter  for  as  long  as  he  could 
remember.  Still,  he  said  he  had  "...  nev- 
er gotten  a  turkey  until  he  was  30  years 
old." 

Lesher  said  that  since  then  h^  has 
bagged  a  turkey  almost  every  yeaF.  but 
admitted  being  "skunked  "  lasl  year  by  the 
wily  bird. 

Lesher  has  all  the  qualifications  of  being 
the  turkey  expert  he  says  he  isn't.  He  has 
had  several  stories  published  in  the  Penn- 
sylvania Game  News,  given  many  lectures 
on  the  subject  of  turkeys  and  how  to  hunt 
them,  and  won  or  placed  in  several  turkey 
calling  contests 

Lesher  mentioned  that  m  one  Pennsyl- 
vania turkey  calling  contest  he  beat  Ben 
Lee  Rogers,  a  former  world-champion  tur- 
key caller. 

Lesher  gave  a  demonstration  on  calling 
turkeys,  including  various  calls  such  as 
the  mating  call,  feeding  call,  and  others 

A  display  Lesher  showed  consisted  of 
turkey  eggs,  a  full-mounted  turkey  and  a 
half-mounted  one,  hen  and  torn  turkey 
droppings  and  piaster  casts  of  turkey 
tracks 

Lesher  stated  that  although  turkeys  are 
not  very  intelligent  birds,  their  keen  sense 
of  eyesight  and  hearing  make  them  a 
lormidable  game  bird 


Itobei  I  (;.  l.esher  in  the  middle  of  lecture 
on  turkeys  and  turkey  hunting,  Lesher  is 
known  for  his  expertise  on  the  wily  bird. 

U.S.  workers 
get  pat  on  back 

The  American  worker  got  a  pat  on  the 
back  this  week.  The  West  German  Trade 
Institute  said  Japanese  and  Americans  are 
the  world's  hardest  workers. 

An  Institute  survey  made  these  findings; 

Japanese  workers  lose  only  two  percent 
of  their  normal  work  hours  annually 
through  sick  leave,  accidents  or  other  rea- 

Americans  lose  a  bit  more  time  ■-  three- 
and-a-half  percent. 

The  French  lead  all  European  workers, 
staying  home  eight  percent  of  the  time. 

And  as  for  the  West  Germans  them- 
selves, the  survey  said  their  reputation  for 
being  industrious  is  somewhat  exagger- 
ated. They  lose  about  10  percent  of  their 
work  hours  each  year  -  about  the  same  as 
Dutch  and  Italian  workers 


4s^ 


TREAT  HER  RIGHT 
INSTT/IP  OFtlCDONAHfS 
TAKE.  HER  TO    SOUP 
OR   SCOOP 


AT  THE  /    ^^/(j(>    CjtcLl^MAy  CotUO'On\ 

'^aSf'^Jc^    I   ""^^    POLLflR  TOWflRPS/  OUR_  A/JR&E 

/ 


sI'^w^fpT  \  SUPER  SCOOP 

\        \1  MOl/NV/:»INS  OF  ICE  CRE>}Mi  <1V£RS    Of 
\       TOeflnbi,  FORESTS  OF  BAN/(nAi,  ETC . 
Of>El^  '^c ^— •  ^ 

io-*io  s/rr— »rHuR 

■0-*\>     FHI 


N-'MBV  1979     •> 


World  of  Work 


,rl,l  ../   II  i.rt  .If.'  ;.f.M  l,M  /n    Ir 


mlur.  (:„ll4-^e 
,  >/i..«/,/  /,..  ill- 


„lf„ 


On-Campus  Recruiting 

United  Technical,  Reading,  Pa  ,  Friday,  Nov   :W.  group  meeting  at  9  am., 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium  Disciplines:  electrical  technology,  elec- 


trical construction 


Part-Time 


Subniakers— must  be  18  years  old,  available  for  weekends  and  evenings. 
Apply  at  the  rear  of  SO-S  Washington  Blvd.,  8  am  to4  p  m 

Part-time  church  organist  or  organist  choir  director  for  St.  Paul  Lutheran 
Church,  436  W  Fourth  St.  Will  have  responsibility  for  one  worship  service  a 
week  and  one  evening  for  choir  rehearsal.  Send  resume  to  Search  Committee  of 
St.  Paul  Lutheran  Church. 

Babysitter— 3rd  shift,  11:30  p  m.  to  7:15  a.m.,  for  9-monthold  baby.  Home, 
Claire  Road,  Montoursville,  368-3108 

Immediate  full  or  part-lime  employment.  Wilson's  Jean  Warehouse,  325 
Market  St.  Must  be  18  or  older 

Waitress  and  waiter  wanted  GenelliLycoming  needs  banquet  waitresses 
and  waiters.  Apply  at  front  desk. 

Fitting  and  refinishing  of  skis-Wilson's  Sporting  Goods,  151B  hours  a  week. 
30  hours  a  week  over  Christmas.  Apply  at  store,  3'25  Market  St.  See  Jim  Shaffer 
or  Mark  Gallati. 

Dishwasher— Sundays  or  holidays,  local  person  preferred.  Apply  Manager. 
Ross  Club,  201  W.  Fourth  St.  Call  326-28%. 

Temporary  papering  and  painting,  general  carpentry.  Apply  Bill  Mazzula 
during  the  day.  Call  3'26-7041  Evenings  call  .i2G-n:!8. 


Career  Jobs 


Bookkeeper-receptionist— Canton  Area  School  District,  139  E  Main  St., 
Canton,  Pa..  17724.  Apply  Administrative  Office,  or  call  717-673-3191  Appli- 
cations and  resumes  must  be  received  before  Nov.  16. 

Forestry  Technician-Jerry  S.  Moore-Logging  R.D  6,  Lee  Lane,  Tunkan- 
nock,  Pa..  18657.  Call  717-8,36-5549.  Cut  and  skid  logs,  pulpwood  and  saw  logs 

Graphic  Arts  Technicains-Sun  Litho-Print,  Inc  ,  421  N  Courtland  St  ,  East 
Stroudsburg,  Pa.,  18301.  Apply  Mr.  James  A.  Somers.  Call  717-421-3250.  Open- 
ings for  printers  and  typists. 

Mechanical-Engineering  Uraftpcrsons-AMP  Inc  ,  1595  South  Ml  Jog  St  , 
Elizabelhtown,  Pa.,  17022.  Apply  Virginia  Graham,  call  717-367-1105 

Aviation  Technicians-Cessna  Aircraft  Co  ,  Wichita,  Kansas,  67277  Apply 
Personnel  Deparlmcnl.  A&P  Rating  required 

Diesel  iVIechanics-E  Tetz  &  Sons,  Inc.,  Crystal  Run  Road,  Middletown,  N.Y, 
10940.  Apply  Skip  Tetz,  call  914-692-4488.  Need  engine  repairman  for  heavy 
equipment  firm. 

Aviation  Technicians-Atlantic  Aviation  Corp..  P.O.  Box  1500.  Wilmington, 
Del.  19850  Apply  Mr  Frederick  W.  Reamer  Call  302-322-7000.  A&P  rating 
desirable. 

Machinist  General  and  Toolmaking  Techniciaos-J&B  Precision  Machine, 
3020  Bethlehem  Pike,  Hatfield,  Pa.,  19440  Apply  Ben  Brower  Call  215-8221400 
or  2500. 

Graphic  Arts  Technician-Bro-Dart  Industries,  Arch  Street  Apply  Don 
Brown.  Need  photo  composer. 

Graphic  Arts  Technician  and  Frintiiig-Eureka  Paper  Box  Co.,  401  Eureka 
Place.  Apply  Donald  Daksch.  Call  326-9147.  Need  offset  printer. 

Architects.  Draftsperson.  Civil  Technicians  and  Technical  Illustrators  — 
Kurtanich  Engineering,  6124  E  State  Street,  Box  1225,  Sharon.  Pa  .  16146  Apply 
Joseph  A.  KurUnich,  call  412-981-4570. 

Engineering  Draftsperson— Greenberg  Owen  Co..  2121  Reach  Road  Apply 
Jerry  Splain  call  326-17.55 

Civil  Itibnicun-Mithael  Baker  Jr  Inc  P  O  Box  280.  Beaver.  Pa.  15009. 
Appiv  Mr  Warrinlliiris 

^■4  *.  ¥S'SS:W:SSi->SJS:¥r*S55fSW:¥SfS- 


Late  Report 

New    mayor 
to  speak 
on  campus 


This  evening,  newly- 
elecled  Mayor  Stephen  J.  Lucasi 
will  speak  at  the  bonfire  to  be 
held  between  Units  29  and  30. 
The  bonfire  is  scheduled  to  begin  at  6 
o'clock. 

The  Student  Government 
Association  invited  the  winning 
mayoral  candidate  to  speak  at 
week's  end,  after  the  results  of 
last  Tuesday's  election  were 
reported. 

The  mayor-elect  was  asked 
to  speak  about  the  interrelation- 
ships of  the  College  and  the 
community,  according  to  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  R.  Kremiolli,  student  ac- 
tivities assistant. 


Page  6 


Because  of  our  current  parking  shortage,  more  of  our 
students  will  be  thinking  seriously  about  car  pooling.  To 
give  the  car  pooling  system  a  better  chance  for  success, 
the  Student  Activities  Office  will  serve  as  a  clearing  house 


'^v> — 


for  all  car  pooling  information. 

Car  Pools 

Car  Pools 

Car  Pools 

Car  Pools 


1.  Carpool  with  other  drivers. 
No  car,  need  a  ride 

2.  Name 

Curriculum 

3.  Local  address 

City 


If  you  are  interested  in  car  pooling,  please  complete  the 
survey  below.  When  the  Student  Activities  Office  has  re- 
ceived all  the  surveys,  it  will  begin  the  process  of  match- 
ing students  who  drive  with  students  who  don't  drive. 

For  each  new  semester  the  student  will  have  the  respon- 
sibility to  complete  a  new  carpooling  form  at  the  Student 
Activities  Office. 
Please  return  to  Communications  desk  after  completing. 
Give  a  ride 


m 


Zip 


Thursday:  Time  of  departure 
Return  time 


4.  Local  telephone  number  _ 

5.  I  can  transport  riders 

Occasionaly Vacations 


Every  week 


Friday:  Time  of  departure. 
Return  time 


No. 


Saturday:  Time  of  departure 
Return  time 


6.  Would  you  want  to  share  expenses?  Yes 

7.  Please  complete  schedule:  Friday  departures,  Sunday 
departures,  weekends. 
a.  Main  Campus 

Monday:  Time  of  departure 

Return  time 

Tuesday:  Time  of  departure 

Return  time 


Sunday:  Time  of  Departure . 
Return  time 


b.  Off-Campus:  Earth  Science . 


Airport. 


Route:  Please  list  areas  which  you  travel  through  and 
can  pick  up  riders. 


Wednesday:  Time  of  departure . 
Return  time 


This  form  will  be  available  for  reference  at  the  Communi- 
cations Center,  first  floor,  Klump  Academic  Center  or 
Room  136,  Klump  Academic  Center. 


I4ff.  «  Mow  Street 

Williamsport.  PA  17701 

(71 7)  322-6712 


Walerbeds  Finest  Selection  of 
Jewelry  rolling;  papers  and 
Novelties     smoking  accessories 


^Anything  Goes' 
to  feature  staff, 
faculty,  students 

Thf  Theater  Company  was  to  hold  a  full 
rehearsal  on  Saturday  for  the  upcoming 
variety  show.  "Anything  Goes'. 

According  to  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire.  ad- 
visor, the  cast  ran  through  the  entire  show, 
marking  the  first  time  the  entire  cast  re- 
hearsed together 

••Anything  Goes"  will  take  place  at  K 
p  m..  Tuesday,  Nov.  20,  in  the  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center  auditorium,  said  Mrs.  Fry- 
Included  in  the  show  will  he  students, 
teachers,  members  of  the  administration 
and  staff,  said  Mrs,  Frymire. 

The  show  w  ill  include  the  Mostoda  Play- 
ers, of  Milton,  who  will  perform  "There's 
Nuthin"  Like  A  Dame",  which  is  an 
excerpt  from  the  Broadway  show  "South 
Pacific". 

Also  slated  to  perform  are  Dr.  Edmond 
A.  Walters  ;ird.  dean  for  degree  and  cer- 
tificate programs,  who  will  portray  Mark 
Twain,  and  Paul  W.  Goldfeder.  business 
administration  instructor,  who  will 
portray  "Mr  Cellophane",  a  character  in 
the  Broadway  musical,  "('hicago". 

Alumni  meet  toni<;ht 

The  first  meeting  of  the  Alumni 
Association  will  be  held  at  7  tonight 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center, 
Room  207,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assis- 
tant. 


"GO  TELL    THE  SPARTANS" 
(Synopsis) 


"Go  Tell  the  Spartans"  is  set 
in  the  countryside  of  South  Viet- 
nam in  1964,  when  Vietnam  was 
little  more  than  a  new  word  in 
the  vocabulary  of  America.  At 
that  time,  the  United  States  had 
only  about  12.000  military  ad- 
visors in  South  Vietnam. 

Major  Asa  Barker  (Burt  Lan- 
caster), the  commanding  officer 
of  the  Military  Advisory  Assis- 
tance Group  detachment  at 
Penang.  interviews  a  number  of 
new  American  soldiers.  Among 
them  are  Corporal  Courcey 
(Craig  Wasson).  a  draftee  fresh 
from  the  U.S.;  Sergeant  Oleo- 
nowski  (Jonathan  Goldsmith), 
a  battle-weary  veteran  sent  up 
from  the  Delta  Region  who  had 
served  with  Maj.  Barker  in 
Korea;  and  Lieutenant  Hamil- 
ton (Joe  Unger),  a  naive  patri- 
otic but  humane  officer  on  his 
first  assignment. 

Barker  receives  orders  to  send 
a  detachment  of  Vietnamese  and 
some  American  advisors  to  Muc 
Wa.  an  abandoned  outpost  in 
the  countryside  which  the 
French  had  occupied  and  lost 
during  their  war  against  the 
Vietnamese  a  decade  earlier. 
Although  in  disagreement  with 
the  wisdom  of  occupying  an  area 
that  had  been  peaceful  for  years. 
Barker  nevertheless  complies 
with  orders.  He  sends  Lt.  Hamil- 
ton. Sgt.  Oleonowski.  Cpl. 
Courcey,  medical  corpsman 
Abraham  Lincoln  (Dennis  How- 
ard! and  radioman  Ackley  (John 
Megna)  as  the  advisory  team 
with    the    collection    of   Vietna- 

regular  soldiers  —  headed  by  the 
aggressive  and  capable  Cowboy 


(Ev 


Ki: 


to  establish 


base  at  Muc  Wa. 

While  digging  i 
the  soldiers  come 
down  cemetery 
French  soldiers  fi 

signpost  above  the  cemetery 

quote  from   Herodotus,   writing 


I  at  Muc  Wa. 

filled  with 
nm  the  prev- 
iption  on  the 


about  the  Battle  of  Thermopylae 
between    the    Greeks    and    the 

Persians  in  480  B.C.: 

Go  tell  the  Spartans,  thou  that 
passeth  by.  That  here,  obedient 
to  their  laws,  we  lie. 

As  the  soldiers  go  about  their 
duties,  Courcey  establishes  a 
friendship  with  his  men,  partic- 
ularly Cpl.  Old  Man  (James 
Hong).  Sgt.  Oleonowski  and 
Cowboy  become  the  principal 
leaders  as  Lt.  Hamilton  tries  to 
learn  the  ropes  and  fight  off  an 
attack  of  amoebic  dysentery.  On 
a  patrol,  a  group  led  by  Sgt. 
Oleonowski  runs  into  some  Viet 
Cong  but  is  able  to  return  to  Muc 
Wa.  However,  one  South  Viet- 
namese is  hit  and  lies  moaning 
across  the  river  from  Muc  Wa. 
Lt.  Hamilton  insists  that  an 
attempt  be  made  to  rescue  the 
wounded  man.  Ignoring  Oleo- 
nowski's  entreaties  that  it's  too 
dangerous  to  attempt  a  rescue. 
Hamilton  dashes  out  himself. 
He  is  caught  in  a  crossfire  and 
killed. 

The  next  day.  Oleonowski, 
completely  drained  with  battle 
fatigue  and  remorse,  commits 
suicide. 

Baker  dispatches  his  aide. 
Captain  Olivetti  (Marc  Singer), 
to  take  command  at  Muc  Wa. 
and  soon  after,  intelligence  re- 
ports a  big  formation  of  Viet' 
Cong  moving  toward  the  outpost. 
Courcey.  on  patrol,  runs  into 
them  and  barely  makes  it  back 
to  base. 

With  the  help  of  air  support, 
the  defenders  at  Muc  Wa  repulse 
a  major  frontal  assault.  How- 
ever, under  increasing  pressure 
on  the  outpost.  Barker  is  ordered 
to  take  the  American  troops  out 
by  helicopter.  When  it  becomes 
clear  that  the  South  Vietnamese 
are  not  coming  out  also,  Courcey- 
disobeys  Barker's  orders  and 
elects  to  remain,  setting  the 
stage  for  a  valiant  attempt  to 
battle  through  Viet  Cong  lines  to 
friendly  territory. 


□  □□□□□□□□□□□ 

We're  getting  strafed, 

shelled,  bombed  and  blasted. 

And  it  isn't  even  our  damned  war! 


GOTELiTHEsmienms 


TONIGHT! 


7:30  P.M. 


Klump  Academic  Center     $1.00 

BURT  WNCASTER  in  "GO  TELL  THE  SF*RTANS' 

Slarnng  CRAIG  WASSON    MARC  SINGER    JONATHAN  GOLDSMITH 

Directed  by  TEO  POST    Produced  by  ALLAN  F  BOOOH  and  MITCHELL  CANNQLD 

Screenplay  by  WENDELL  MAYES   Based  on  Ihe  novel  "IncidenI  al  Muc  W'by  DANIEL  FORD 

Execulive  Producer  MICHAEL  F  LEONE   Music  Composed  and  Conducled  by  Dick  Hailigan 

A  Sparlan  Produclions/Mar  Visia  Produclions  Presenlalion  Prmls  by  CFi 

^.-  AVCO  EMBASSY  PICTURES  RELEASE  |R|  r'JS'i^B^ 


Pages 


Car  smash        Bloodmobile 


today  opens 
Zany  Week 

Zany  Week  -  Ihe  Sludenl  Govern- 
ment Associalion's  week  of  fun  events 
for  students  --  opens  today  with  a  car 
smash  at  4  p.m. 

Other  fun  events  during  the  week 
include  a  performance  by  "Mr. 
Fingers"  --  described  as  a  master  of  ex- 
trasensory perception  and  magic  by  his 
promoters.  The  Mr.  Fingers  perfor- 
mance is  free  to  students  of  the  Col- 
lege. It  will  be  held  at  8  p.m.,  Thurs- 
day in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Other  events  include  a  Hood  Fren- 
zy. Volleyball  Tournament,  and  the 
Coronation  of  the  Williamsporl  Area 
Community  College  Greaser  King  and 
Queen.  (See  Page  One  Cover  for 
lislin^s  of  events  and  limes.) 

Mr.  Fingers 
to  perform 
Thursday 


Irv  Wciner.  also  kn 


Mr,  Fin- 


gers", will  perform  Thursday  at  8  p.m.  in 
the  Klump  Academic  Center,  according  to 
Mrs  Jo  Ann  Fremiotii,  student  activities 
assistant. 

Admission  will  be  free  to  all  college 
students  with  identification  and  lo  chidren 
under  I2yearsofage. 

Admission  is  $1.50  for  the  public  and  lor 
students  without  10- 

"An  Evening  With  Irv  Weiner",  the  one- 
man  show  which  is  currently  touring  the 
country  at  colleges  and  universities 
brings  back  Ihe  days  of  old  vaudeville,  said 
Mrs  Fremiotti 

A  feature  of  Weiner's  performance  is  the 
mailing  of  a  sealed  package  lo  someone 
who  IS  supposed  lo  guard  it  until  showtime 
Mrs  Fremiotti  is  currently  in  possession 
of  the  package  mailed  for  his  performance 
here 


college  visit 
nets  473  pints 

A  Iwd  day  visit  ol  Ihe  Ked  Cross  Uliicid 
mobile  lo  the  College  netted  47:1  pints  o( 
blood,  according  to  Mrs  Ellen  H,  Arnold, 
blood  service  coordinator  lor  the  Hed 
Cross, 

Although  the  eoo-pinl  goal,  was  nol 
reached,  the  Red  Cross  was  "very  satis- 
fied" with  Ihe  results, 

"There  were  .513  people  who  volun- 
teered "  said  Mrs  Arnold,  "and  of 
those,  40  were  turned  away  because  of 
recent  illnesses  " 

Among  the  donors  were  those  who  re- 
ceived special  recognition  reaching  gallon 
marks 

The  only  Ihree-gallon  donor  was  Dr 
David  M  Heiney.  dean  of  sludenl  and 
career  development, 

The  only  student  lo  donate  Iwo  gallons 
was  George  K.  Cohick,  a  mechanical 
drafting  student  of  Williamsporl 

Students  reaching  the  one  gallon  m.nrk 
were  Michael  E,  Passmore,  a  mechanic  .il 
drafting  student  of  Blossburg  and  Daviil  K 
Shullz,  a  general  studies  student  ol  .Sun 
hury 

"We  appreciated  everyone's  cooper 
ation  and  are  looking  forward  to  visiting 
Ihe  College  again  nexl  March."  said  Mrs, 
Arnold 

Scheduling  ends 
Friday,  students 
advised  to  meet 
with  advisors 

"Scheduling  for  the  Spring  term  ends 
this  Friday."  according  to  Kathryn  M. 
Marcello.  director  of  student  records. 

Students  who  have  nol  scheduled  are 
advised  to  meet  with  their  advisors  "soon" 
to  assure  the  required  classes,  she  said. 

"When  scheduling,  it  is  important  to 
check  for  time  confhcts  to  avoid  running 
into  other  classes."  she  added 

Grants,  work  study  open 
for  spring  semester 

Grants  and  work  study  money  are  still 
available  for  1979-80,  according  to  Jennie 
T,  Bills,  financial  aid  office  director 

Any  student  who  is  presently  receivmg  a 
basic  grant,  can  be  eligible  for  further 
funding.  Students  wishing  to  receive  funds 
should  stop  by  the  financial  aid  office  so 
they  can  be  given  the  forms  and  directions, 
said  Ms  Bills 


n 


4S.^ 


"We  appreciated  everyone's  cooperalion..."  commenled  a  Red  Cross 
representative  after  the  recent  Bloodmobile  visit  at  Ihe  College.  The  visit 
netted  473  pints. 

Gemutlichkeit  'great  way' 
for  staff  members  to  meet 

learn  what  they  do."  she  added 
So  planned  agenda 

"I  made  homemade  tomato  juice 
and  zucchini  bread  for  the  first 
"gemutlichkeit".  said  Dr  Watters 
with  a  note  of  pride. 

"We  all  agreed  there  should  be 
more  of  this  type  of  getting  to- 
gether." said  Mrs,  Crissman. 
'People  have  a  chance  to  talk  with 
others  that  ordmarily  they  may  have 
never  met,"  she  added. 

Although  there  is  no  planned  agen- 
da, these  "gemutlichkeits"  usually 
last  "an  hour"  and  are  held  in  a  diff- 
erent place  each  time, 

"We  would  like  to  ha 
two  weeks."  said  Mrs 
"and  invite  10  lo  12  m 
time," 

,  The  next  "gemutlichkeit"  will  be 
held  within  the  next  two  weeks,  she 
said.  Ron  McMahon.  administrative 
assistant  for  CETA.  will  be  bringing 
"goodies  "  to  this  event 


By  Trudy  Shively 
Staff  Writer 

I'lt's  the  greatest  thing."  said 
Mrs.  Ann  R.  Crissman,  secretary  to 
Dr.  Edmond  A  Watters  3rd.  "es 
pecially  for  the  new  instructors  ' ' 

"It's  an  informal  gathering  where 
we  invite  different  faculty  and  staff 
members  to  each  meeting."  she 
said,  "Someone  is  chosen  before 
each  meeting  to  bring  something  tor 
all  toeat."  she  added. 

"Let's  not  call  it  a  gathering." 
said  Dr  Watters  "Let's  call  it  a 
'gemutlichkeit'  !" 

Homemade  Foods 

"The  purpose  of  a  gemuthchkeit" 
is  to  introduce  the  people  in  different 
departments,  the  administration. 
the  faculty  and  staff  members  to  one 
another,"  said  Mrs.  Crissman. 

"We  have  staff  members  who 
have  never  been  in  many  of  our 
offices."  she  said,  "It's  really  nicelo 
get  acquainted  with  those  people  and 


one  every 
Crissman. 
fibers  at  a 


NSERVE 


Irv  Weiner.  known  as  *'Mr.  Fingers",  will  perfon 
Ihe  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 


I  Thursday  at  8  p.m. 


Bffil^CogS'*^ 


Bulletin  Board 

MOVIE 

"Go  Tell  the  Spartans"  and  "Flash  Gordon"  serial.  Chapter  10,  7:30  tonight, 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  with  student  ID 
SALE 
Junior  American  Dental  Hygiene  Association,  Whiten-up  Sale,  all  this  week. 

IVlEETINCiS 
Tomorrow,  Student  Government  Association,  4  p,m  .  Room  i;J2,  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center, 
Tomorrow,  Gamma  EpsilonTau,  4  p,m,  Frat  Room,  Unit  6, 

SEMIN,\K 
Tomorrow  and  Wednesday,  Resume  Writing  and  Interviewing  Workshop, 
"How  to  Write  a  liesume",  3  to4  p,m,.  Room  207,  Klump  Academic  Center, 

Friday,  "How  to  Interview  for  a  Job",  12  noon  lo  1  p  m  ,  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

HOCKEY 
Hockey  players  must  turn  in  uniforms  and  equipment  lo  Ihe  Physical  Plant 
by  Friday. 

WRESTLING 
Friday  and  Saturday,  Wrestling-Corning  Community  College,  Thanksgiving 
Tournament,  ,'\wa^ 


<30 

a:? 

o 

i-H 

nistration;  Earl  I 
nd  Dwight  E.  Scl 

man,  advertisin 
general   studies 
undeclared;  Tor 
struction;  Crysta 

^ 

a. 

O 

cd 

admi 
red;  a 

Kathe 
ursh. 
neker 
■al  cor 

s 

o 

4^ 

'4H 

n.  business 

h,  undecia 

journahsm 

Jeff  L. 

iola  L.  I 
ay  K    Dan 

er.  electri 

•i*^ 

•^ 

fl 

1 1||  -.£■! 

c« 

0)? 

.  3£  e     Ssai 

O 

o 

31 

-^ 

K 

2^ 

show, 
eater  C 

bers  of 

e.advis 
1  includ 

S: 

•  1— 1 

4-> 

ariety 
geTh 

rymir 
Is  wi 

4-i 

Cd 

>  ;S   1   o   g  te.   <j 

^ 

>-. 

0.) 

,  -^  fe  n  w  J  x: 

a 

«+H 

^£  s-  .  »:- 

^ 

P 

< 

o 

ing  G 
ted  by 
p.m..t 
ow  wi 
staf 
saidM 
ded  th 

h^ 

o 
i 

Anytll 
prese 
nyatS 
rhe  sh 
ulty. 
dents 
he  ac 

I  00  g  g      o 


S  E  o 
>•  ~1  M 


llis: 


is? 


■HpiMMaai 


Richard  M.  Borland,  dlc^el  mrchanioi 
sludfnl  from  Wirren.  won  Ihc  peanul 
pushing  contest  durtnic  ihf  Sludenl 
<.ovrrnmenl  AsvocJation  /any  Week  last 
week.  Borland  aUo  lied  for  fint  place  In 
the  spaghelti  ealinf;  conlesi  and  placed  in 
Ihf  belching  coattil.f Complete  coverage 
of  Zanv  Week  in  the  next  issue  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT.) 


World  of  Work 


liming,  fu,  llarlil  nf  H  ork  are  jmwiiM  In  fnmk  J.  Iliiii^: 
I'lannmit  Offiir.  Riiim  2W/.  K(iim;<  limlrmir  Onlcr.  /n<(ii 
re,  Ml  U,  ihOI  offur. 


>rlfir.  tlttltefif 
>hmM  l«-  fli- 


CAREER  JOBS 


Graphic  Arts  Technicians-Sun  LilhoPrinl,  Inc  ,  421  North  Courtland  Street. 
East  Stroudsburg,  Pa  18301.  Openings  for  printers.  Apply.  Mr  James  A. 
Somers. 

Aviation  Technician-Cessna  Aircraft  Co  .  Wichita.  Kan  .  67277  A4P  rating 
required.  Apply:  Personnel  Department 

niesel  Mechanic— E  Tetz  &  Sons.  Inc  ,  Crystal  Run  Road.  Middletown.  N.Y. 
10940  Needs  engine  repairman  for  heavy  equipment.  Apply:  Skip  Tetz 

Forestry  Technician— Jerry  S,  Moore-Logging.  R.D  6  Lee  Lane.  Tunkan- 
nock.  Pa  18657.  Cut  and  skid  logs,  pulpwood  and  saw  logs. 

Mechanical  and  Engineering  Draftsmen  Henovo.  Pa.  Apply  Lock  Haven 
Employment  Office.  Jay  Street.  lx)ck  Haven.  Pa  Apply :  Mr  Alex  Lechmanick 

Tool  Designmen— Smith  Corona  (operations).  Route  13.  Cortland,  N.Y.  13045 
Designing  tools  for  the  sheet  metal  and  wood  industries.  Apply:  Mr.  James 
Demasey. 

Kngineering  Draftsmen-Control  Chief.  P  0  Box  141,  Bradford,  Pa  16701 
Apply:  Personnel  Manager, 

Engineering  and  Mechanical  Dratlsmen-ACF.  AMCAR  Division,  Missouri 
Plant.  Milton.  Miss  17847,  Apply:  Mr  Mike  Roberts- 
Engineering  Draftsmen— Greenburg  Oven  Co,  Inc.,  2121  Reach  Road,  Wil- 
liamsporl  Pa  .  Apply :  Jerry  Splain 

ON-CAMPUS  RECRUITING 

Eleclrlcal  Technicians  &  Electrical  Construction— United  Technical,  Read 
ing,  Pa..  Nov,  30,  group  meeting  at  9  ;i  m  .  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditoi 
ium.  May  graduates' 


Part-Time 


Interior  painting,  some  carpenlrv.  Walking  distance  from  the  College  C.^ll 
323-5884, 

Cook's  helper— part-time  until  Nov,  15.  then  full-time.  Bourbon  Street  Nighl 
Club.  220  Linn  Street.  Williamsporl  Call  Chef  Domino  at  326-5633  after  5  pi 


Telephone  sales  person— Olan  Mills  Studit 
Apply :  Mrs  Cowles,  Manager  at  326-l%l .  betwee 
Waitress  or  Waiter-Evening  hours  Call  after  8 
Rilhvsilter:;  children   I'hnnc  JII4  17'2r, 


,  to  1  p,m,  or4p  I 
m  and  1  p  r 

.  323-9651 


toBp  I 


.ll,nlicl|i«.iill<-il    H. 


M|,     K 


HELP  WANTED 
Needed:  Someone  to  shovel  walk  when  the 
snow    starts    (lying.        Leave    name    and 
telephone  number  cfo  Box  5,  SPOTLIGHT  ol- 
(Ice.  Room  7,  KAC  basement. 


The  female  record  for  the  longest  contin- 
uous shower  is  98  hours,  one  minute  set  by 
Paula  Glenn.  18,  and  Margaret  Nelson,  20, 
in  Britain  on  Nov,  24, 1971, 


4^ 


TREAT  HER  RIGHT 
INSTT/U?  OFrKDONALIfS 
T/»K£  HEU  TO  SOUP 
OR   SCOOP 


AT  THE 


so  w^fpT  V  SUPER   SCOOP 


Team  members  practice  tl 
Monday,  Nov.  12.  The  ga 


s  before  playing  in  the  volleyball  gan 

-,  were  part  of  the  first-night  activities  of  Zany 


PBL  honored 
with  plaque 

Members  of  the  College  Phi  Beta 
Lambda  (PBL)  chapter  attended  the 
Eastern  Regional  Phi  Beta  Lambda  con- 
ference from  No-  9  to  11,  and  returned 
from  New  Haven,  Conn,  with  a  plaque. 

The  plaque  was  awarded  to  PBL  for 
having  the  largest  membership  club  on  the 
east  coast. 

Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  PBL  advisor,  said 
the  plaque,  which  was  the  only  one 
presented  at  the  conference,  was  accepted 
by  Andy  W.  Wentz,  club  president,  at  a 
banquet  Saturday  evening. 

Goldfeder  added  that  the  executive 
council  of  the  local  chapter  met  last  Wed- 
nesday, Nov  14  He  said  plans  are  in- 
complete for  the  coming  month's  activities 
which  tentatively  include  a  Christmas 
dinner  and  dance  planned  for  sometime 
before  the  end  of  the  semester. 

According  to  Goldfeder,  plans  were  also 
discussed  for  fund  raising  activities,  and 
samples  of  new  merchandise  were  shown 
to  the  executive  council. 

PBL  will  also  sponsor  a  Christmas 
party,  which  will  be  open  to  all  students 
and  faculty  of  the  business  division.  Gold- 
feder said  the  exact  date  for  the  party  has 
not  yet  been  determined 

Wildcats  hoping 
for  good  season 

Although  this  year's  men's  basketball 
team  lacks  height,  it  seems  to  compensate 
by  being  aggressive  and  havmg  tremen- 
dous faith  in  members  and  coach. 

"We're  hoping  it's  going  to  be  a  good 
season  ",  said  John  F.  Gray,  of  Northeast, 
a  carpentry  and  buildmg  student,  when 
commenting  on  his  outlook  for  the  season, 

"1  think  we'll  have  a  good  season." 
stated  Alfred  "Slick"  W,  Henderson,  of 
Pottstown,  a  machine  general  student. 
Henderson  added,  "We're  small  but  we 
have  a  lot  of  confidence  in  ourselves." 

Len  R.  Maguire.  of  Enola,  a  carpentry 
and  building  student,  said  "We're  small 
but  tough  '  He  added,  "Coach  Manikowski 
has  some  interesting  views  on  the  game  " 

The  Wildcats  are  looking  forward  to  a 
good  season.  Their  opening  game  will  beat 
Delaware  County  Community  College  at  8 
p,m  next  Wednesday,  Nov,  28, 

li  Pt^h'ins  for  ivrestlin^  tonight 

All  students  who  signed  up  for  intra- 
mural wrestling  are  to  report  to  Bardo 
Gym  today  at  6:30. 

According  to  Thomas  G.  Gray  director 
of  intramurals.  weigh-ins  and  matches  will 
begmat  this  time 

Softball  was  invented  in  1887  by  George 
Hancock,  a  Chicagoan. 


Completion  of 
schedules  urged 

"Students  who  did  not  schedule  for  the 
Spring  semester  between  Oct,  29  and  Nov. 
16  will  not  receive  an  invoice  ( bill  i  during 
the  Thanksgiving  vacation,"  said  Kathryn 
M-  Marcello,  director  of  student  records. 

"I  encdurage  students  who  have  not  sch- 
eduled to  see  their  advisor  immediately," 
she  added,  "before  the  regular  scheduling 
period  has  ended." 

Even  though  most  students  have  already 
scheduled,  there  are  38  percent  who  have 
not,  she  said.    . 

Thomas  Frazier  claims 
raffle  prize;  Remington 
Model  870  sho^un 

Thomas  A.  Frazier,  Williamsport.  has 
won  first  place  in  the  Forest  Technicians 
Association  raffle  drawmg  held  Nov.  1.  He 
won  a  Remington  Model  870  pump  shot- 
gun, according  to  club  president  Richard 
A,  Reasinger, 

Second  place,  a  Woolrich  down  vest,  was 
won  by  Allan  Geyer  of  St,  Marys.  Ray  Bal- 
user.  also  of  St.  Marys,  won  the  third  prize, 
a  Buck  Folding  hunting  knife. 

The  drawing  was  held  at  the  Schneebeli 
building  in  AUenwood, 

TheSPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia 

Scholastic  Press 

Associslion 

Competition 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly 
throughout  the  academic  year,  except  tor 
official  college  vacations,  by  journalism 
and  other  interested  students 

Office:  Room  7.  Klump  Academic 

Center  (basement).     Telephone:  (717) 

326-3761.  Extension  221. 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic 

Press  Association 

Member,  Pennsylvania 

Collegiate  Press  Association 


Wascher's 

Chiropractic 

Center  of  Life 

«£^u 

Dai/id  G  Wascher 

'^^K' 

Chiropractor 

n 

1905  Mill  Lane 

Williansport,  Pa. 

Phone  (7171  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 

SPORTS 

Women's  basketball  squad 
stressing  aggressiveness 


B>  Jackie  Cardene 
Staff  Writer 

Mrs  Katherine  Revello.  entering  her 
second  season  as  the  women's  basketball 
coach,  is  very  confident  about  this  year's 
team.  She  said  there  is  not  much  height, 
but  "we  are  working  hard  on  defense  " 

Mrs.  Revello  was  awarded  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  health  and  physical  education  by 
East  Stroudsburg  State  College.  She  is 
teaching  health  and  physical  education  at 
Montgomery  High  School. 

Mrs.    Revello    has    coached 


There  are  14  girls  out  for  the  team.  Mrs. 
Revello  said  there  will  be  no  cuts,  but  there 
are  only  I2  uniforms.  Not  every  girls  will 
receive  a  uniform,  but  Mrs.  Revello  noted 
that  whomever  she  feels  is  most  ready  for 
a  game  will  wear  a  uniform. 

Mrs,  Revello  stresses  aggressiveness 
due  to  lack  of  height.  She  said  the  girls  are 
polite  and  very  coachable. 

Mrs.  Revello  acknowledged,  "The 
league  is  very  stong  and  we  will  have  are 
hands  full,"  She  added,  "There  are  many 

lennis  al  Montgomery  for  10  years  and    f*  '^^""^  ""If'??!  *'"..''°"''  ''""''  *' 
coached  women^  basketball  there  for  four    l'™*  "'"^'"6  about  them 

Last  season's  overall  record  were  three 


years, 

Mrs,  Revello  is  married  and  lives 
South  Williamsport  with  her  husband, 

nanda  daughti 


Asked  about  coaching   at   the  college     than  the  previous  o 


wins  and  eight  losses,  Mrs,  Revello  enthus- 
iastically stated  the  girls  are  doing  there 
best  and  hope  to  produce  a  better  record 


level,    Mrs,    Revello   said,    "It    is   much 
easier,  because  most  of  the  girls  hai 


The  team's  first  game  is  at  1  p.m..  Sat- 
urday. Dec.  1.  The  lady  Wildcats  will  be 


played  ball  in  high  school,  and  I  don't  have    debuting  one  the  home  court. 


to  start  with  the  basics." 

This  year  is  the  first  year  the  women's 
team  has  been  included  in  the  Eastern 
Pennsylvania  Community  College  Athletic 
Conference  (EPCCAC).  This  is  the  team's 
second  season  as  an  organized  club. 

Intramural  volleyball 
entries  open  soon:  Gray 

Entries  will  soon  be  open  for  all  inter- 
ested students  who  want  to  participate  in 
intramural  volleyball. 

According  to  Thomas  G,  Gray,  director 
of  intramurals.  volleyball  will  be  open  to 
all  students,  both  male  and  female.  Co-ed 
teams  may  also  be  formed,  he  said. 

Gray  said  interested  students  are  to  pick 
up  rosters  and  rules  at  the  IM  bulletin 
board  on  first  floor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

Entries  will  be  available  shortly  before 
Christmas,  he  said. 


Mrs,  Revello  also  reported  that  both 
scheduled  games  against  Lehigh  College 
have  been  cancelled,  due  to  the  dropping  of 
their  women's  basketball  organization. 

Free  pizza  to  be  given 
for  deer  hunting  prize 

A  deer  hunting  contest  will  be  held  at  4 
p.m..  Tuesday.  Nov,  27,  accordmg  to  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  Fremiotti.  student  activities  assis- 
tant. 

The  winner  of  the  contest  will  be  the 
person  who  bags  the  deer  with  the  biggest 
rack. 

All  contestants  are  asked  to  bring  a  pic- 
ture of  the  deer  to  the  Communications 
Center,  Klump  Academic  Center  before  4 
p.m, she  said. 

The  prize  —  a  free  large  pizza  from 
Pizza  Hut  —  will  be  given  away  at  4  p.m. 


Accounting  student  top  scorer 
in  IM  bowling  with  237  game 


By  Brian  Rippey 
Staff  Writer 

David  A  Peterson,  an  accounting 
student,  is  averaging  181  after  the  first  five 
weeks  of  the  intramural  bowling  season. 

Peterson,  who  rolled  a  237  for  the 
league's  high  game,  threw  two  200  or 
better  scores  Thursday,  Nov,  8,  to  become 
the  first  bowler  of  the  season  to  total  400  in 
two  games. 

He  also  has  a  384  and  363  two-game  total 
this  year.  They  are  the  second  and  fourth 
highest  series  this  far. 

Curtis  F.  Shadle.  a  forest  technology  stu- 
dent, has  the  third  and  fifth  highest  totals 
with  a  364  and  362 

Robert  E  Maurer  Jr.,  an  electrical  con- 
struction student,  rolled  a  207  for  the  only 
other  game  entered  in  the  200-or-over  cate- 
gory, according  to  statistics  released  by 
Thomas  A,  Bythell.  league  secretary 


The  league  meets  every  Thursday  after- 
noon at  the  Young  Men's  Christian  Assn., 
West  Fourth  and  Elmira  Streets. 

It  is  using  a  70  percent  handicap  system 
this  year,  Bythell  said  One  win  is  given  to 
each  team  with  the  high  total  for  each 
game  including  the  handicap.  A  third  wm 
is  given  to  the  team  for  total  pins,  again 
the  handicap  is  added 

The  Philadelphia  Flyers  was  the  first  ex- 
pansion club  to  win  the  Stally  Cup  in  the 
National  Hockey  League 


With  the  wrestling  season 
rapidly  approaching,  the  at- 
titude of  the  team  is  impor- 
tant. Confidence  in  the  team 
and  enjoying  the  sport  are 
essential  ingredients  to  a  suc- 
cessful team. 


Thomas  S. 
,  Husler.  a  third- 
:  semester  elec- 
;  trical  technology 
:  student  .feels 
;  "this  year's 
:  team  will  add  up 
;  to  as  good  a  Thomas  S.  Husler 
:  quality  team  as  last  year's." 

Commenting  on  the 
:  workouts,  Husler  said,  "The 
;  practices  don't  take  a  lot  of 
:  time  but  they  are  good  and 
:  hard." 

Dennis     L.     Wise,     a 


:  firstsemester 
;  broadcasting 
■  major,     thinks 
;  "This      could 
:  possibly    be    a 
;  young   team." 
:  He         added, 
:;  "More    running 
i  will  have  us  in 
:;  better    condition 

i:  school." 


Dennis  L.  Wise 

than     high 


Attitude 

is  key 

for  winning 

wrestlers 


By  Larry  Steele 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Sufr 


Mike  H.  Flinko,  a  second 
semester  carpentry  student, 
says  Coach  Wasson  doesn't 
put  as  much  pressure  on  the 
team  as  had  other  coaches  he 
had  been  associated  with. 


This  way,  he  I 
says,''The| 
wrestler  who 
wants  to  wrestle ' 
will  wrestle  bet- 
ter because  he  I 
has  to  push ' 
himself."  Mike  H.  Flinko 

So,  with  the  first  competi- 
tion for  the  team  slated  last 
Friday  and  Saturday,  Nov.  16 
and  17,  in  a  tournament  at 
Corning  Community  College, 
it  seemed  Coach  Max  G. 
Wasson  had  instilled  the  right 
winning  attitude  in  this  year's 
squad 


Classifieds 


WANTED  TO  BUY 

Old  smoking  pipes,  pipe  racks,  and  humidors. 
Please  call  Wayne  Miller  al  1-656-7386  col- 
lect. Or  leave  name  and  telephone  number 
with  Box  5,  The  SPOTLIGHT.  Room  7.  Klump 


Pelleschi's  Uniform  Wotld 

PROFESSIONAL  UMFORMS  FOR  MEN  ANO  WOMEN 

11  W.  4th  SI. 

Vtilliimsporl.  Pa.  17701 

phont  mtm 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 

Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  INovellies 

Finest  Selection 

of  Rolling  Papers  and  Smoking  Accessories 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


$1,000,000  „ocK 

SI    WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       on  sale 


v^    SALE  I 


} 


Z 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 


^ 


Footwear  •  Wofk-Hunting-Hiking 
Outerwear  •  VESTS-IACKETS-COATS 
lEANS  •  You  name  it  -  We  have  it 
Athletic  Footwear 
GLOVES  •  Mittens 

OPEN  9  AM  ■  9  PM  Mon.Fri 


Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 

Alpine 

325  Market  St. 
Other  DAYS  9  AM  -  5:30  PM 


Yearbook  is  'Go!' 
with  advisor,  staff 
appointments  made 


Bulletin  Board 

MOVIE 

The  Wild  Bunch"  and    Flash  Gordon"  serial.  Chapter  11,  Klump  AcademK 
Center  Auditorium.  7:30  tonight,  $1  with  student  ID 
MEETING 

Phi  Beta  Lambda.  Room  302.  Klump  Academic  Center.  :J:45  p.m  .  Wednes 


dav 


B\  Trudv  M.Shivel.v 
Stafr  W  rilrr 
■The    yearbook    ts    underway!"    ex- 
claimed Kathryn  M   Marcello.  director  of 
student  records  and  yearbook  advisor. 
"A  meeting  was  held  Wednesday,  Nov. 


felter.  an  electrical  technology  student  of 
Stewartslown. 

Slafrs  needed 

Organizations  editor  Brenda  A    Long  a 

floriculture  student  of  Driftwood,  literary 

/copy  editor,  Tammy  R    Bennett,  an  ad- 


7.  to  assign  students  to  their  positions  and  vertising  art  student  of  Towanda  and  lay- 
out editor.  Cristen  Carberry.  a  forest  tech- 
nology student  of  Pottstown 

"We  need  staffs  to  work  under  these 
editors."  said  Mrs  Marcello  "Anyone  in- 
terested in  joining  a  staff  should  contact 
one  of  the  above  editors  as  soon  as  pos 
sible,"  she  added. 

"Yearbook  meetings  will  be  held  at  3  p. 
m  Tuesdays."  she  said,  "in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  basement." 

"However,  tomorrow's  meeting  will  be 
held  in  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Cent- 
er," she  said 

"Mr.  Hawkces  will  present  a  slide  show- 
on  the  production  of  a  yearbook."  she  said 

"Students  interested  in  becoming  part  of 
the  19R0  Montage  should  plan  to  attend  — 
as  well  as  the  editors."  she  said. 


assignments, "  she  added 

Present  at  the  meeting  was  William  H. 

Hawkees  3rd.  publications  consultant  for 

Josten's  "who  will  meet  with  the  yearbook 

staff  as  an  instructor."  she  said 

Apiiointments  made 

Students  appointed  lo  positions  are  as 
follows:  Editorin-chief.  Trudy  MShively. 
a  journalism  student  of  South  Williams- 
porl,  photography  editor,  HaroM  P.  Eck, 
an  accounting  student  of  Jersey  Shore; 
faculty  administration  editor.  Amy  L,  Bo- 
hart,  a  computer  operator  student  of 
Jersey  Shore  and  sports  activities  editor. 
Donna  L,  Elsasser.  a  computer  science 
technology  student,  of  Cocolamus. 

The  student/class  editors  are  Joanne 
Dlnorado,  a  machine  tool  technology  stu- 
dent of  Johnsonburg  and  Alton  E.  Glat- 


WW  AS  scheduled  to  begin 
operating  FM  radio  soon 


"We  now  have  program  authorization 
from  the  Federal  Communications  Com- 
mission ( FCC }  to  operate  at  10  watts  FM." 
said  Clifford  Horlon.  broadcasting  instruc- 
tor. 

According  to  Horton.  the  program  auth- 
orization is  "...  the  last  step  before 
licensing,"  After  the  station  is  licensed, 
broadcasting  students  will  be  able  lo  oper- 
ate on  FM, 

The  station.  Radio  WWAS,  will  be  oper- 
ating at  10  watts  FM  power  rather  than  on 
closed-circuit  broadcasting  as  now.  he 
said. 

A  test  program  is  scheduled  to  be  run 
sometime  this  week  if  the  station's 
crippled  transmitter  is  in  operation,  said 
Horton 

The  transmitter  was  sent  lo  be  repaired 
in  California  last  week,  and  it  was  un- 
certain if  il«  would  be  returned  in  time  for 
the  test,  Horton  said, 

The  box  containing  the  entries  for  the 
"Guess  the  Day"  contest  will  be  "opened 
as  soon  as  I  have  administrative  approval 
from  Dr.  Watters  to  officially  begin  broad- 
casting," said  Horton. 

Horlon  is  currectly  working  on  a  hand- 
book on  FM  operation  of  the  broadcasting 
facility  which  is  required  before  adminis 
trative  approval  will  be  given,  he  said. 

Horton  said  the  week  after  Thanksgiving 
is  the  target  date  for  beginning  operation 
under  FM  power 

Attendance  sheets  from 
veterans  urj^ed:  Johnson 

"Veterans  enrolled  in  certificate  cour- 
ses, who  have  not  handed  in  attendance 
sheets  for  August.  September,  or  October. 
please  do  so  immediately,"  said  Mrs 
Vicki  L.  Johnson,  veterans  affairs  special- 
ist, 

"You  must  also  bring  your  white  certifi- 
cation card  with  you."  she  said 

"If  you  have  already  received  your 
check  for  October  and  the  white  card'was 
not  enclosed."  she  added,  "it  is  important 
to  see  me  at  once  " 

For  more  information,  veterans  may 
contact  Mrs.  Johnson  in  Room  110,  Klump 
Academic  Center  between  8  am,  and  4 
p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday. 


but  Fling  flops 

The  clam  cake  sale  held  by  the  Food  and 
Hospitality  Club  was  a  success,  according 
to  George  E.  Schreppel,  co-manager  of  the 
sale. 

Betty  L.  Shuster,  also  co-manager,  and 
seven  other  students  helped  prepare  the 
clam  cakes  for  the  sale.  Schreppel  said 

Thirty-five  dozen  cakes  were  sold.  Sch* 
reppel  said.  The  sale  was  held  on  an  ad- 
vanced order  only  basis 

While  the  clam  cake  sale  was  a  success, 
the  Fall  Foliage  Fling  was  a  "total  wash- 
out," Schreppel  said. 

The  dance  that  was  held  in  the  Lair  Wed- 
nesday, Nov  7.  only  drew  a  crowd  of  about 
25  students.  Schreppel  said. 

Heavy  equipment  class 

According  to  Horton,  the  winner  of  the       tO  lOUr  AllcntOWn  plant 

contest  will  have  either  a  taped  interview 


THEATEH 

"Anything  Goes".  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium.  Theater  Group.  8 
p.m..  tomorrow.  Admission  $1 

VACATION 
Thanksgiving  Day,  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Monday,  no  classes. 

MEETING 
Interclub  Council  Room  132  Klump  Academic  Center  8pm    tomorrow 

Clam  cake  sale     Feature  writer 

termed 'success',    guest  at  second 

Your  Own  Bag' 


which  will  be  broadcasted,  or  a  live  inter- 
view during  which  the  presentation  of  the 
prizes  will  be  made.  The  interview  will  be 
broadcasted  on  the  first  day  of  FM  oper- 
ation, said  Horton 

Student  chapter  of  SME 
attends  banquet,  lecture 

The  student  chapter  of  the  Society  of 
Manufacturing  Engineers  i  SME )  attended 
a  seminar  at  6:30  p.m  .  last  Monday.  Nov 
12,  The  banquet  and  meeting  was  held  at 
the  Angus  Inn,  near  Hughesville. 

Terry  L.  Stouffer.  SME  vice  president, 
said  a  roast  beef  dinner  was  followed  by  an 
informal  lecture  by  Thomas  Ballock.  of 
Gidding  and  Lewis  Electronics,  on  "Con- 
siderations in  Numerical  Control  Appli- 
cations," 

WILL  DO  TYPING 

Typing     done     in     my     home     anytime. 
Reasonable  rates.     Electric  typewriter  gives 
clean  manuscripls.  Call  368-8965. 


Freshmen  in  the  Service  and  Operation 
of  Heavy  Equipment  recently  went  on  a 
field  trip  to  the  Mack  assembly  plant  in  Al- 
lentown.  according  to  instructor  William 
L  Stevens 

Because  of  the  number  of  freshmen 
taking  part  in  the  tour,  two  trips  were 
taken  with  about  40  freshmen  on  each  trip. 
The  trips  were  Thursday,  Nov.  8.  and  Wed- 
nesday. Nov.  14. 

The  freshmen  took  a  tour  of  the  plant 
and  were  able  to  view  how  trucks  are  put 
together,  satd  Stevens. 

Instructors  involved  in  the  trips  included 
Dan  C.  Emick.  Paul  J,  Zell  Jr..  and  Scott 
B  Appleman 

WANTED  TO  BUY 

Old  smoking  pipes,  pipe  racks,  and  humidors. 
Please  call  Wayne  Miller  at  1-656-7386  col- 
led. Or  leave  name  and  telephone  number 
with  Box  5.  The  SPOTLIGHT,  Room  7,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 


^\G^  *    Sam  Peckinpah's 
'  THE  WILD  BUNCH 

Unabridged  .  .  .  Ruthless  . .  .  Intelligent 


7:30  P.M. 

Klump 

Academic 

Center 

$1.00 


m 


In  Two  Weeks: 

Horror  Double  Bill 
Freaks    and     Mansion  of  the  Doomed 


H>  .lackKkke 
Staff  Writer 

Mrs.  Susan  Brooke,  a  feature  writer  for 
the  Bloomsburg  Morning  Press,  was  the 
speaker  for  the  second  "Your  Own  Bag" 
session,  on  Friday.  Nov.  9. 

Approximately  20  people  attended  Mrs, 
Brookes  talk,  which  centered  on  her  dut- 
ies at  the  "Mornmg  Press".  She  will  have 
completed  three  years  with  the  newspaper 
this  January 

Mrs.  Brooke  said  she  had  "never  worked 
on  a  high  school  or  college  paper",  but  had 
always  liked  writing.  She  began  working 
for  the  Morning  Press  with  "very  little 
training".  Her  first  assignments  were 
covering  meetings  as  a  "stringer". 

"A  "stringer",  she  explained,  goes  along 
with  the  reporter  who  is  writing  the  story 
to  be  published,  and  writes  a  demon- 
stration story.  The  demonstration  story  is 
given  to  the  editor  who  critiques  it 

Mrs.  Brooke  considers  feature  writing 
the  most  interesting  part  of  her  job.  As 
with  most  small  papers,  she  must  work  in 
several  different  areas,  and,  she  said,  fea- 
ture writing  is  her  "dessert," 

The  "dry"  part  of  her  job,  she  acknow- 
ledged, concerns  reporting  on  a  school 
board  and  the  work  she  does  for  the  social 
department  This  includes  writing  notices 
of  marriages,  engagements,  and  marriage 


li 

After  her  talk,  Mrs    Brooke  toured  the 
SPOTLIGHT  office. 

The  next  "Your  Own  Bag"  will  be  held  at 
noon,  Dec.  7. 
/\o  paper  next  tveek 

The  SPOTLIGHT  will  not  be  pub- 
lished next  week  due  to  the  Thanks- 
giving vacation.  The  next  issue  of 
the  newspaper  will  be  Monday,  Dec, 
3, 


Clllo's 
L/ollege   Oorner 

CILLO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE: 

Phone  3221321. 

Call  ahead  lo[  lake-out  orders. 

We  will  have  order  read»  lor  »ou  lo  pick  up. 

Hours:  7  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Restautant/Snack  Bai 

Open  for  Breakfast: 

7  a.m. 

Breakfast  Served  lU 
lO.liOa.m. 


(    THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE     ) 


^^BtflilJBCDtf 


(    Monday,  Dec.  3, 1979       VoTlS.No.  13       8  Pages    ) 


Music! 

...in  the 
next  issue 
...to  be 
published 
Dec.  10 


Christmas  decorating  contest  opens  today 


Starting  today  each  club  is  asked  to 
select  a  specific  day  on  which  they  will 
spread  Christmas  cheer  around  the  cam- 
pus. This  event  will  run  until  the  15th  of 
this  month,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant 

In  conjunction  with  this  is  the  College 
Christmas  Party  which  will  be  held  Dec.  15 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center  auditor- 
ium. 

There  will  be  free  entertainment  and 
food.  Also,  the  prizes  for  the  Christmas 
decoration  contest  will  be  given  away,  she 
said. 

Decorations  for  this  contest  must  be 
done  by  4  pm.  Dec.  12.  according  to  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

The  rules  for  the  contest  are  as  follows : 
1   Anyone  wanting  to  enter  the  Christmas     BariQUet  fOf  graduates 
contest  must  inform  Mrs.  Fremiotti,  Room  /*  -^  t       r^  i  -^ 

136,  Klump.  and  guests  to  be  Dec.  12 

2,  Contest  is  open  to  students  and  Faculty  /        ^  ^^^^^^  j^^  December  graduates  will  be 
^^^11-  ^  „  .u        u.  .  held  on  Dec.  12  at  6:30  p.m.  in  the  Klump 

3.  The  College  reserves  the  nghl  to  remove  ^^.^^g^,^.  Center  cafeteria,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  Fremiotti,  Student  Activities 
.Assistjmt 

The  dinner  is  free  lo  all  December  grad- 
uates and  their  guests,  she  said. 

Any  graduate  wishing  to  attend  this 
dinner  must  make  reservations  by  Dec.  7. 
Reservations  can  be  made  by  contacting 
Mrs.  Fremiotti 


anything  that  is  not  approved  by  the  Fire 
Marshall. 

4  All  decorations  must  meet  the  Fire  Mar- 
shall's approval,  for  fire  safety. 

5  The  College  will  not  be  responsible  for 
theft  or  damage, 

6  No  candles  and  no  angel  hair, 

7.  Lights  used  must  be  U  L.  approved, 

8  Nodecoraling  on  the  T  V  "s or  monitors 

9  Each  club  will  be  responsible  for  safety 
of  equipment 

10-  Electrical  cords  strung  across  corri- 
dors must  be  tapped  to  the  floor  with  a 
strong  durable  tape  that  will  take  traffic. 
11.  No  decorating  over  electrical  recep- 
ticals.  heating  ducts,  cold  air  returns, 
thermostats  or  cover  electrical  cords  with 
paper 


12,  Doors  and  exits  are  not  to  be  blocked. 
Doors  must  move  freely  if  decorated. 

13  Swinging  doors  may  not  be  decorated. 

14  If  trees  are  used  JoAnn  must  be  in- 
formed so  that  the  trees  can  be  sprayed  by 
the  Maintenance  Department  wi 
resistant   chemical   before   they 
decorated. 


The  catagory  of  prizes  will  be  as  follows: 
1.  Most  unique 

2  Most  elaborate. 

3  Old  Fashioned. 

4  Biggest  joke, 
fire     S  Most  attractive. 

6.  Merriest, 
The  prizes  will  be  five  dollars  for  the  stu- 


Choir  to  hold  Christmas 

reheari^al  Wednes^day 

There  will  be  a  one-hour,  all-chorus 
Christmas  rehearsal  6  to  7  p.m.,  Wednes- 
day, in  the  Klump  Academic  Center  Audi- 
torium. 

■"All  are  invited,"  said  Mrs,  Sylvia  Lea 
Fry  mire 

The  chorus  will  perform  Thursday.  Dec 
13.  in  the  Best  Western  Motel. 

PBL  Christmas  party 
planned  for  Dec.  14 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  be  spon- 
soring a  Christmas  party  from  11  am.  to  2 
p.m.,  Friday.  Dec.  14,  in  Room  311  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

According  to  Andy  W.  Wentz.  PBL  presi- 
dent, the  party  will  be  open  to  all  business 
and  computer  science  students  and  facul- 
ty. Wentz  added  that  refreshments  will  be 
provided. 

IM  volleyball  entries 
now  open  for  students 

Intramural  volleyball  entries  are  now 
open  for  men,  women  and  co-ed  teams, 
according  to  Thomas  G.  Gray  director  of 
intramurals. 

Interested  students  may  pick  up  a  roster 
and  set  ol  rules  at  the  IM  bulletin  board, 
first  floor  of  Bardo  Gym 

No  Iranian  students 
attending  classes  here 

"There  are  no  Iranian  students  on  cam- 
pus at  this  time."  said  Mrs.  Deborah  K 
Grieco,  transcript  clerk  in  the  student  rec- 
ords office, 

Mrs.  Grieco  said  there  had  been  appli- 
cations from  two  students  of  Iranian  des- 
cent for  the  Spring  semester,  but  they 
decided  not  to  attend. 


15  Trees  must  be  kept  moist  and  may  use     dents  and  a  box  of  candy  for  the  faculty  / 
preservative,  if  the  tree  dries  it  must  l)e    Staff. 
removed  even  if  before  judging. 

16.  Foyer  decorations  must  be  approved  by 
ICC  Room  136 

17.  Decorations  in  hallways  are  okay  but 
must  be  approved  by  each  clubs  division 
director, 

18.  Hallway  space  must  be  approved  and 
reserved  by  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti,  Room  136, 
Klump, 

19  Outdoor  decorations  must  be  approved 
by  Mr,  Lowe.  Director  of  Physical  Plant. 
20.  Each  club  is  responsible  for  cleaning  up 
and  removing  decorations  and  for  trees 
Must  be  put  in  steel  hoppers  that  are  o\Ai- 
side  eaotUuiUfUag. 

2\  All  decorations  must  be  taken  doun  bv 
Dec  17 

22  All  decorating  must  be  completed  be- 
fore 4  p,m,  on  Dec.  12,  Judging  will  take 
place  on  Dec.  13,  Prizes  will  be  awarded 
between  II  and  2  on  Dec  13  at  a  Christmas 
party  held  in  the  auditorium  by  ICC 


Student  nurses 
sponsor  party 
at  Lysock  View 

The  Student  Nurses  Organization  of  the 
College  (SNOW)  will  sponsor  a  Christmas 
party  tonight  at  6:30  in  the  Lysock  View 
Nursing  Home 

Santa  Claus.  played  by  Norman  Probst, 
Ql  WiUiamsport,  will  distribute  gifts  to  the 


;ifis 


pun 


donations,  according  to  Mrs  Margaret 
McKeehan.  practical  nursing  instructor 

SNOW  will  provide  cookies  and  punch 
for  the  residents  Music  will  be  by  Gail  and 
Lawrence    Ingraham.    members    of    the 

(luspel  Echor" 


■uck,  owned  by  Dorothy  A.  Moser.  of  Mount  t  a 
uck  by  a  Coarail  locomotive  lasl  Wednesday 
iccordiiig  to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak.  Chief  of  Secu 


SHO/l  lOHT 


.\pparen()y.  the  pickup  was  struck  because  il  was  parked 
too  close  to  the  tracks.  saidSmeak, 

Smeak  warned  students  lo  park  a(  least  four  feet  from  the 
fdfic  of  the  tracks. 


Mondo.  Dec.  3.  I*?* 


VIEWPOINT 


EdHoriol 


Movie  review 


Gift  can  be  wonderful      Disappointing 


Christmas  used  to  mean  giving  ot  oneself 

Today,  it  often  boils  down  to  giving  gilts  A  thoughtful  gift  can  be  a 
wonderful,  loving  thing  to  give  or  to  receive  But  sharing  of  yourself  can 
bestow  an  even  greater  feeling  of  caring 

If  there  are  children  on  your  Christmas  list,  giving  them  the  gift  of  your 
time  can  create  lasting  memories  The  toy  you  might  have  given  can 
wear  out  or  be  broken,  but  no  one  can  break  the  memory  of  a  good  time 

Your  time,  your  talents  can  be  a  great  gift  for  adults,  too  The  best  gifts 
are  not  always  found  among  the  tinsel  and  trappings  of  our  modernized, 
commercialized  conception  of  Christmas 

Sometimes,  the  best  gitts  are  discovered  within  ourselves,  waiting  to 
be  shared 

Television  review 

IVIany  are  alike 

By  Cindy  Snook 
Staff  Writer 

When  it  comes  to  soap  operas,  many  are  alike  Doctors,  lawyers,  pro- 
stitutes, and  syndicate  members  -  all  characterized  by  excellent  actors 
and  actresses  -  are  among  those  portraying  broken  marriages,  disturb- 
ed families,  and  death 

Whether  it  be  the  players  or  inevitable  cliff-hanging  suspense,  it  is 
easy  to  be  addicted  from  episode  to  episode  in  a  "soap". 

Soap  operas  are  shown  tvlonday  through  Friday  during  the  afternoon, 
right  after  the  weekday  morning  talk  shows,  cartoons,  and  game  shows. 
This  time  had  once  been  ideal  to  catch  women  at  home,  hence  the 
repeated  detergent  ("soap")  commercials 

In  recent  years,  however,  men  who  once  scoffed  at  women  for  wat- 
ching "soaps"  are  sitting  themselves  in  front  of  the  tube  for  these  after- 
noon delights  It  would  seem  logical,  then,  to  continue  commercials 
advertising  household  products  at  this  time  and  stick  with  the  tilie,  "soap 
opera" 

Modern  day  soaps  like  "General  Hospital".  "Search  for  Tomorrow". 
"The  Young  and  Restless".  "As  the  World  Turns",  "The  Edge  of  Night". 
"Ryan's  Hope".  "Days  of  Our  lives",  and  "All  My  Children"  continue  to 
give  viewers  a  sometimes  ridiculous  look  at  life. 

But  even  though  Harold  Hampfler  has  had  his  appendix  removed 
seven  times  and  lathered  five  children  tor  his  two  wives  and  one  long- 
lost  lover,  he  will  still  be  around  this  Christmas  to  toast  the  doctor  who  is 
plotting  to  take  his  life  land  his  third  wile) 

Ridiculous?  Perhaps  But  more  and  more  people  say.  "Her  life  is  like 
a  soap  opera"  or  "he  has  as  many  problems  with  his  family  as  so-and-so 
on  this  soap  opera  I'm  watching     " 

Soap  operas  will  be  around  tor  my  children  to  watch  --  and  who 
knows?   Maybe  Harold  Hampfler's  children  will  be  playing  the  roles 


Whadd'ya' 
say.  .  .? 


Joseph    J,    Leonardo, 
of    Germyn.    electricc 
construction:  "Yeah, 
I  think    they  should. " 


Donald  L,  Jones, 
of  Blossburg,  elec 
Iricol    constructio 

Do  onylhing  I 
could  to  get  back 
hostages. 


of  Norristown. 
electrical  construction: 
"/Vtost   definitely!" 


Should  the  United  States  take  any  action  in  Iran? 

This  week's  question  was  asl<ed  at  the  Lair  by  Brad  E. 
English  and  Robert  J.  Allen,  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  staff. 


By  Leslie  IVI.  Rogers 
Staff  Writer 

Sidney  Sheldon  must  have  choked  when  he  saw  this  rendition  of  his 
book.  "Bloodline  '  Disappointing  is  not  a  strong  enough  word  for  this 
farce! 

Instead  of  a  young,  fresh,  and  beautiful  Elizabeth  Rothe.  we  are  given 
a  tired,  40-year-old  divorcee  The  breath-taking  Rhys  Williams  is 
presented  as  a  short,  balding,  chubby  middle-aged  playboy  who  made 
me  sick  at  first  sight     Heaven  on  earth  he  is  not! 

The  flashbacks  in  this  movie  are  unbelievably  confusing  and  they  have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  main  plot 

Elizabeth  and  Rhys  act  bored  instead  of  wildly  excited  by  each  other 
-as  they  should  be  It  made  me  want  to  cry  --  and  certainly  not  because 
of  "the  beauty  of  it "  I  don't  think  the  makers  of  this  movie  ever  thought 
of  beauty  while  they  were  making  it 

There  are  two  redeeming  points  in  this  movie.  One  of  them  is  Sir 
Laurence  Olivier  Even  with  a  terrible  script,  he  comes  through  with  fly- 
ing colors    His  portrayal  of  the  demented  killer  of  prostitutes  is  superb 

The  other  good  point  is  Omar  Sharif's  depiction  of  Ivo  Palazzi  Ivo's 
troubles  with  his  mistress  and  his  wife  are  truly  comical  His  efforts  to 
keep  the  two  apart  are  just  enough  to  keep  people  from  leaving  this  lame 
attempt  at  a  movie. 

This  is  my  final  warning     Don't  waste  the  money' 


LETTERS 

The  SPOTLIGHT  we/com*s  l«fl»rs  horn 
rmaden  Letters  lor  publication  tnusl  be  no 
fonger  than  2S0  M/ordt  All  letters  must  be 
signed  with  the  writer's  name,  address,  and 
telephone  number  Anonymous  letters  will  not 
be  published  The  SPOTIIGHT  reserves  the 
right  to  edit  or  refect  any  letter  The 
authenticity  oi  all  letters  will  be  checked  and 
none  con  be  returned 

To  llie  editor: 

I  forward  a  letter  from  the 
Blood  Services  coordinator 
(Lycoming  County  Chapter. 
American  Red  Cross)  lor  publica- 
tion and  information  of 
Williamsport  Area  Community 
College  students 

Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti 
Student  Activities  Assistant 

On  behalf  of  patients  in  area 
hospitals  who  will  be  needing 
blood,  I  want  to  thank  you  for  the 
excellent  job  you  did 

Four  hundred  and  seventy- 
three  of  the  513  volunteers  were 
successful  donors.  That  is 
wonderful 

Please  extend  my  thanks  to 
those  students  who  helped  in  all 
phases  of  the  operation,  their 
assistance  was  greatly  ap- 
preciated by  volunteers  and  pro- 
fessional staff 

Again,  thank  you  for  a  job  well 

done     And  I  am  looking  forward 

to  working  with  you  in  the  spring 

Ellen  H.  Arnold 

Blood  Services  Coordinator 


Just  a  thought 

When  you  ask  sonneone.  "How 
are  you?"-Mean  it. 


The  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 

The  Columbia 

Scholastic  Press 

Association 

Competltfon 

The    SPOTLIGHT    is    published    weekly 

throughoul  Ihe  academic  year,  excepi  for 

official  college  vacalions.  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students 

Office;  Room  7,  Klump  Academic 

Center  (basement).     Telephone:  (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221. 

Member,  Columbia  Scholastic 

Press  Association 

(Vlember,  Pennsylvania 

Collegiate  Press  Association 

The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 

Mollis  Zelewicz 
Campus  Editor 

Jan  L    Daniel 
Associate  Campus  Editor 

John  F   Zelewicz 
Sports  Editor 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene 
Photography  Edior 

Dwighi  E   Schmuck 
Advertising  Director 
and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Brad  E   English 
Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J  Rexer 
and  Michael  Lehiies 
Reporters 

Robert  J  Allen 
John  L   Rickerl 
Brian  M  Rippey 
Leslie  M  Rogers 
Trudy  M   Shivety 
Cindy  M  SnooH 
Larry  G    Steele 
ChrisUna  N   Weibley 
Theresa  J  MacKemie 
Robert  E    Thomas 
Contributing  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 
Staff  Assistant 
and  Photographer 
Timothy  A     Tolh 


:'SSWS!:^WSSS;S^«:: 


Production  Team  This  Issue 
Jan  Daniel.  Supervisor 

Robert  J  Allen 
Cindy  M  Snook 
Larry  G   Steele 


Monday.  Dec.  }.  1979 


SPOTLIGHT 


State  chess  team  tourney 
to  use  5-round  Swiss  system 


Eating  liver  can  help  meet 
nutritional  requirements 


By  G«U  Thompson 
Starr  Writer 

According  to  information  supplied  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti.  student  activ- 
ities assistant,  by  Dr.  R.  Eikerenkoetter  at 
Cheyney  State  College,  there  will  t>e  a 
state  chess  team  tournament  on  Jan.  12-13. 
in  Cheyney.  Pa. 

The  Pennsylvania  Team  Tournament 
will  be  open  to  chess  teams  consisting  of 
four  players,  plus  one  alternate,  from  any 
state. 

It  will  be  a  five-round  Swiss  system 
tournament,  in  which  players  with  similar 
scores  will  be  paired  if  possible.  First 
round  pairings  may  vary  however. 

The  time  limit,  expressed  in  the  number 
of  moves  followed  by  the  maximum  num- 
ber of  minutes  or  hours  in  which  the  num- 
ber of  moves  must  be  made,  will  be  40/90. 

Trophies    and    money    prizes    will    be 

Catering  class 
tours  Magee 

The  catering  class  of  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio 
toured  the  catering  facilities  at  the  Hotel 
Magee  in  Bloomsburg,  Friday.  Nov.  16. 

The  catering  manager  told  the  students 
how  the  catering  staff  handles  large  dinner 
parties,  Mrs.  Miglio  said.  He  also  showed 
them  the  latest  equipment  used  in  catering 
dinners 

Mrs.  Miglio  said  the  class  will  be  cater- 
ing their  final  dinner  of  the  year  tonight  in 
Room  105,  Klump  Academic  Center.  They 
will  serve  the  board  of  trustees. 

The  planned  menu  consists  of  clams 
casino,  whole-roasted  tenderloin  beef, 
vegetable,  garni,  and  croissants.  The  class 
will  serve  Swedish  scones  for  dessert, 
according  to  Mrs.  Miglio. 

Artists  Unlimited  meet, 
will  plan  Yule  card  sale 

Artists  Unlimited  will  meet  at  3  p.m., 
tomorrow  in  Room  5,  Klump  Acadmic 
Center.  Gerald  J.  Rexer,  club  president, 
said  all  members  must  attend. 

Rexer  added  that  plans  for  the  Christ- 
mas card  sale  will  be  discussed. 

Complete  identifications 
on  mail  envelopes  asked 

Mrs.  Judy  Demko,  coordinator  of  dupli- 
cating and  mail  services,  asks  all  students 
and  instructors  using  interdepartmental 
mail  at  the  College  to  use  complete  names 
and  department  or  office  name  when  fil- 
ling out  mail  envelopes. 

Mrs.  Demko  said  this  information  would 
be  very  helpful  in  the  mailing  office. 

Advisor  conducts 
media  workshop 

Anthony  N.  Cillo.  journalism  instructor 
and  advisor  to  the  SPOTLIGHT,  conducted 
a  workshop  on  writing  at  the  Pennsylvania 
Scholastic  Press  Association  annual  con- 
vention in  Lancaster  Friday,  Nov.  9. 

The  convention  was  held  "mainly  for 
high  school  journalism  students  in  all 
forms  of  mass  media,  including  yearbooks 
and  newspapers,"  he  said. 

According  to  Cillo.  the  conventions 
include  workshops  for  electronic  media, 
such  as  television  and  radio  broadcasting. 


Classifieds 


awarded,  based  upon  12  competing  teams. 

First  prize  will  be  $250  plus  a  trophy,  sec- 
ond prize  will  be  $150  plus  a  trophy,  and 
third  prize  will  be  a  trophy  only.  Also,  ex- 
tra money  beyond  expenses  will  be  re- 
turned as  additional  prizes. 

State  titles  for  the  top  high  school  team, 
top  junior-high  team,  and  elementary 
team  will  be  awarded. 

Entry  fee  for  the  tournament  will  be  $60 
However,  there  will  be  a  $5  discount  per 
each  Pennsylvania  State  Chess  Federation 
(PSCF)  member. 

Registration  for  the  tournament  will  be 
from  8:30  am.  to  10  a.m.  both  days,  in  the 
Ada  S,  Georges  Dining  Hall  at  the  college. 

Lodging  will  be  in  the  college  dorms,  at  a 
cost  of  $3.50  pernight. 

For  entry  forms,  additional  information 
or  maps,  contact  Dr.  Eikerenkoetter.  Box 
405,  Cheyney,  Pa.,  19319, 


By  Brian  Rippey 
Staff  Writer 

Mrs.  Vivan  P.  Moon,  food  and  hospitality 
club  advisor,  has  had  numerous  requests 
for  her  recipe  of  Western  Style  Liver 

Mrs,  Moon  said  during  the  staff  in  ser- 
vice day,  people  were  told  vitamin  supple- 
ments do  not  meet  body  needs.  Instead, 
they  create  imbalances  that  mean  prob- 
lems after  seven  to  10  years  of  use. 

When  eaten  about  every  nine  days,  liver 
will  reduce  food  costs  and  medical  bills, 
Mrs.  Moon  said.  It  will  also  assure  the 
right  combination  of  vitamins  and  lead  to 
the  development  of  healthy  blood,  she  said, 

Mrs,  Moon  warns  not  to  eat  the  four,  six. 
or  eight  ounces  usually  consumed  when 
eating  other  meats  Two  ounces  of  liver 
more  than  meet  necessary  vitamin  re- 
quirements, she  added, 

Here  is  Mrs,  Moon's  recipe  for  Western 
Style  Liver  — 


Preparation  time:  Approximately  40  r 

utes 

Yield:  four  servings 

1  lb.  sliced  liver 
2tbsp  flour 
'.Usp.salt 

'.]  Isp.  pepper 
3  tbsp.  shortening 

2  tbsp  flour 

1  tbsp  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tbsp,  catsup 

1  tbsp,  paprika 

'a  tsp.  dry  mustard 

'i  tsp.  chili  powder 

1  lb.  of  tomatoes  ( including  juice) 


Green  pepper  rings 

Equipment:  Skillet  with  lid.  Remove 
veins  and  coat  with  flour  and  seasonings, 
—  Heat  shortening  and  brown  liver  in  hot 
fat-  —  Combine  and  pour  over  liver.  ~ 
Place  on  top  of  liver.  Cover  and  simmer  on 
low  heat  for  20  to  25  minutes. 


Eleven  teams  participate  during 
Zany  Week;  Computer  Science 
wins  by  big  margin  in  final  tally 


By  Jack  Rickert 
Staff  Writer 

Zany  Week  was  held  Nov,  12  through  15, 
A  total  of  11  teams  from  various  curricula 
took  part  in  the  activities  throughout  the 
week, 

A  food  frenzy  was  held  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  cafeteria  at  6  p.m.  Wed- 
nesday, Nov.  14. 

Timed  pie  eating  was  the  first  event  of 
the  evening,  and  it  was  truly  a  frenzy 

Competing  were  Nancy  L.  Algard.  nur 
sery  mangemnet;  Darl  W,  Bouch,  elec- 
trical technology;  Dave  S.  Kramer,  car- 
pentry construction;  William  W.  Hickey, 
computer  science;  Steve  R,  Rizzo,  service 
and  operation,  and  Leslie  M.  Rogers,  jour- 
nalism. 

Miss  Rogers  took  the  early  lead,  but,  as 
she  said:  "The  first  bite  was  okay,  but 
from  then  on  it  was  down  hill  all  the  way . ' ' 

The  taste  of  the  pie  did  not  seem  to 
bother  Rizzo  as  he  coasted  to  an  easy 
victory. 

Bouch  took  second  place,  with  Hickey 
finishing  a  close  third. 

The  second  event  held  was  the  quantity 
spaghetti  eating  contest.  The  five  con- 
testants were  Dave  B,  Johnson,  carpentry 
construction ;  Bryan  J.  Norris,  nursery 
management;  Dwight  E.  Schmuck,  jour- 
nalism; Ken  E  Jasionowski,  graphic  arts, 
and  Richard  M.  Borland,  diesel  mechan- 

Schmuck  said,  before  the  event,  that  he 
was  going  to  devour  15  plates  of  spaghetti. 

All  the  contestants  alike  seemed  equally 
eager,  but  their  eyes  proved  to  be  larger 


than  their  stomachs. 

Johnson  was  the  first  to  drop  out,  with 
Norris  following  suit.  Each  had  eaten  two 
plates  of  spaghetti. 

Jasionowski  was  the  third  place  finisher. 
Schmuck  and  Borland  tied  for  first  place, 
each  haveing  completed  four  and  one-half 
plates  of  spaghetti, 

Schmuck  explained,  "I  dropped  out  be- 
cause of  a  pressing  need  for  a  pinch  of 
Skoal." 

"The  spaghetti  was  really  good,"  ac- 
knowledged Borland,  "but  I  think  I  ate  too 
much." 

Steve  D.  Cherryl,  service  and  organ- 
izations, burped  his  way  to  a  win  in  the 
belching  contest,  narrowly  defeating  Bor- 
land, Allen  R,  Hippensteal,  transportation 
technologies,  finished  third. 

The  final  event  of  the  evening  was  pea- 
nut pushing.  Borland  nosed  his  way  to  his 
second  victory  of  the  frenzy.  He  easily  de- 
feated second  and  third  place  finishers. 
Rick  A.  Whitmer,  computer  science,  and 
Robert  J  Allen,  journalism, 

"Youve  got  to  be  cross-eyed  to  do  this." 
said  Borland.  "He  added,  "You've  got  to 
like  the  smell  of  peanuts,  so  you  can  follow 
it  likea  hound  dog" 

Thursday's  events  included  swimming 
at  the  Young  Women's  Christian  Assoc- 
iation pool,  and  volleyball  in  the  Bardo 
Gym. 

In  the  newspaper  swim,  Rob  R.  McKin- 
ney,  nursery  management,  was  victorious. 
Placing  second  was  Bill  W.  Hickey,  com- 
puter science,  with  Brian  M.  Rippey.  jour- 
nalism, finishing  third- 


Lost.   Wedding  Ring,  gold   with  silver  design, 
probably  in  Bardo  Gym  or  vicinity.  Reward  for 

return.  Call  326-I477,  ask  lor  Tom, 


McKinney  won  again  in  the  underwater 
distance  swim.  Bruce  R.  Tami.  transpor- 
tation technologies,  and  Steve  R.  Rizzo. 
service  and  operations,  finished  second 
and  third,  respectively. 

Tami  and  McKinney  finished  first  and 
second  m  the  backstroke  and  freestyle 
events  Jeff  D  Pick,  computer  science, 
finished  third  in  the  backstroke,  and  Sue  L. 
Summerson.  computer  science  was  third 
in  freestyle. 

In  volleyball  action,  graphic  arts  de- 
feated electrical  technology  in  the  semi- 
finals by  scores  of  15  to  8  and  16  to  14, 

The  other  semi-final  saw  the  carpentry 
and  building  team  defeat  the  nursery  man- 
agement team,  15tol0andl5to7, 

In  the  championship  game,  carpentry 
and  building  annihilated  graphic  arts.  The 
scores  were  15  to  7  and  15  to  5. 

Members  of  the  winning  carpentry  and 
building  team  were  Dale  R.  Wehinger, 
Wayne  R.  Schryver,  Eugene  M,  Wilson, 
Dave  W,  Gojewski,  Mark  E.  Cast,  and 
Mark  R,  Bechtel 

King  and  Queen  greaser  were  chosen  at 
the  dance  Wednesday  night.  The  winners 
were  Bill  W.  Hickey,  computer  science, 
king;  and  Theresa  M.  Smith,  automotive 
technologies,  queen. 

The  final  point  totals  were: 

Computer  science,  36;  nursery  manage- 
ment. 21 ;  automotive  technologies,  20; 
carpentry  and  building,  15;  diesel  mech- 
anics. 13;  transportation  technologies.  13. 

Also,  graphic  arts  11;  service  and  organ- 
izations, 11;  journalism.  7;  electrical  tech- 
nology, 6 ;  and  mechanical  technology,  1 


SALE 


$1,000,000  I*;™ 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       ON  sale 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 


h 


Footwear  •  WorliHuntlng-Hiking 
Outerwear  •  VESTS-JACKETS-COATS 
JEANS  •  You  name  it  -  We  have  It 
Athletic  Footwear 
GLOVES  •  Mittens 

OPEN  9  AM  ■  9  PM  Mon.-Frl 


Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 

Alpine 

325  Market  St. 
Other  DAYS  9  AM  •  5:30  PM 


Page  4  SPOTtlGHT  Mondaj.  I>«    .1.  1979 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents: 

BANNED  FOR  30  YEARS... 
A  FILM  ABOUT  VERY  SPECIAL  PEOPLE, 
THEIR  COMARADERIE... 
THEIR  LIVES... 
THEIR  TRAVELING  CIRCUS  HOME... 
...AND  THEIR  UNSPEAKABLE  REVENGE 


Freaks 

(From  I  he  direciur  of /he  original  ■■Draiiila'') 


Starring  Some  of  the  World's  Most  Famous 
Circus  Freaks  Portraying  Themselves 

You  will  never  see  another  film  like  it! 


And! 

For  the 
Second  Feature 


TONIGHT! 

7:30   p.m. 

Klump  Academic  Center 

$1.00 


Next  Week:     Nostalgia  Night  25C 

Semester  Closeout 

The  Marx  Brothers  in 

"Night  at  the  Opera" 


Miiitdiit.  Dci.  J.  \<H<) 


spoil  K.HT 


Dendrology  iab:  Guess  again! 
Eucalyptus  doesn't  grow  here 


Trxl  and  pholos 

l).v  Cliff  II.  Siplf. 
:i  loiesliv  student 


student!,  who  participated  in  ihr  DcndniloKv  lal>  were:  front  row,  from  left.  Ja 
risburg;  Hav  W.  Bolich,  of  l'olts\ille;  Dave  R.  I'eangatelli,  of  Genessee;  ditto 
lianisporl;  bacli  row,  Mark  W.  Nojisko,  of  Roslvn;  Terry  I,.  Sewald.  of  Nesbit; 
Blairsvillc:  Jo  Ann  M.  Piehler.  of  SI.  Marys:  Mary  P.  pillow,  of  Tunkhannock; 
tian.  of  (ienesee. 


Sn\der.  of  llar- 
II.  .Siple.  Jr.,  of  Wil- 
>Jichele  I).  Walker,  of 
ind  Thomas  J.  Sebas- 


As  the  stick  sails  from  the  teacher's  tiand  toward  the  tree  (and 
occasionally  makes  a  direct  hit),  the  hearts  of  a  dozen  forestry 
students  catch  In  their  throats  Richard  W  Rankinen  has  picked 
another  toughie.  and  a  furious  scramble  is  on  to  find  something 
-ANYTHING  --  that  will  unlock  the  trees  identify 

The  leaves  are  all  gone  by  now.  and  it  does  no  good  to  check 
the  ground    There  are  leaves  from  six  different  species  underfoot 

Check  the  bark,  check  the  color,  pattern,  texture. 
If  you  still  haven't  guessed  it,  chip  off  a  little  outer  bark,  hoping  to 
discover  a  telltale  color  or  aroma  beneath    Check  the  buds,  the 
twigs,  the  branching  pattern 

"When  all  else  fails"  a  popular  expression  goes,  "It's  probably 
Black  Gum  (Nyssa  sylvatica)  "  Write  down  your  answer,  both  the 
common  and  the  scientific  names  of  the  tree,  and  take  your  paper 
to  f^r   Rankinen  for  the  good  (or  bad)  news 

A  straight  line  through  your  answer  means  you're  on  the  right 
track  and  have  correctly  Identified  the  tree  An  X  Well,  X  marks 
the  spot  where  you  should  have  put  the  correct  answer,  but  didn't 


The  course  Is  FR  1 1 1 ,  DendfOlogy,  or  "Dendro  "  in  the  forestry 
jargon.  It's  a  first  semester  course  dealing  with  the  Identification 
and  nomenclature  of  trees  Its  labs  take  you  to  places  including 
Brandon  Park,  the  State  Game  Lands  near  Allenwood.  the  watersh- 
ed, a  logging  area  near  Muncy  Prison,  or  simply  the  woods  behind 
the  Earth  Science  campus 

The  labs  usually  last  three  hours,  i'  'he  weather  holds,  and  in- 
clude a  roving  lecture  and  a  1 5-to-20  point  quiz. 

The  trees  are  pointed  out  by  Mr  Rankinen  who  launches  vanous 
missiles  at  them  acorns,  hickory  nuts,  rocks,  sticks,  inattentive 
students,  etc    His  aim  improves  as  the  semester  winds  on 

There  are  101  trees  on  the  list  given  to  students  at  the  beginn- 
ing of  the  course  A  few  are  so  rarely  seen  that  they  are  excluded 
from  the  final  exam  in  the  field 

Dendro  labs  are  an  excellent  way  to  enjoy  the  fresh  air  and  learn 
what  those  big  tall  things  growing  out  of  the  ground  are  called, 
they're  also  an  excellent  opportunity  to  get  dirty  The  primary  rule 
of  a  Dendro  lab  is   .  Oon'f  lorgel  your  boots' 


\  the  ■ 'drinking  cup 


\iihele  Walker,  of  Bla 
guess  at  the  identity  of  a 


SPOTLIGHT 


Mondiy.  D<c.  ].  I«79 


World  of  Work 

/  n(.ll^•^  fur  H  nrhl  „l  II  „rk  urv  imni.M  In  trunk  J.  Iltmrf.  ilimKir.  tliillr/lr 
llmimritl  Offiii:  «"■""  -'"''    /v'"'"/'    Iruilimi,   Oiilir.  Itniiiinn  shimlil  lie  ili- 

n,i..i,..i:,„i.,lh.- 

Career  Jobs 

OppralinK  Room  Technician  —  Mornstown  Memorial  Hospital.  Morristown. 
NJ  07960  Apply  Ms  Phyllis  Dolglish.  Personnel  Departmenl  Phone  201 -SM- 
5239  Full  benefits.  5  days/week.  40  houi^.  rotating  shift  schedule,  work  every 
other  weekend, 

(  ompuler  ProRrammcr  —  Eureka  Paper  Box  Co..  401  Eureka  Place  Apply 
Mr  liichard  Wagner  Phone  326-9147  Must  have  cobaJl 

Business  Typist  —  Hope  Enterprises,  1536  Catherine  Street,  Apply  Ms  Dee 
Slee  or  Mr  Paul  Danuecs  Phone  326-3745, 

food  Service  Manager  —  Apply  Sycamore  Manor.  1445  Sycamore  Road.  K,D 
3  Montoursvllle,  Pa  17745  Must  be  knowledgable  and  experienced  with  dietary 
polit  i  and  production  techniques. 

Printing  Manager  —  Apply  Box  015  Sun  Gazette,  Must  have  3-5  years  exper- 
lenci  with  strong  knowledge  of  letter  press  and  offset  printing  techniques. 

Tool  &  Die  Makers  —  Apply  Die-Tech  Inc  .  P  O  Box  5I8A,  R,D,  1.  York 
Havtn.Pa  17370 

rompuler  Operator  —  Apply  Brodart.  Inc.  Personnel  Office.  504  Arch  Street 
Training  and  experience  on  IBM  360-65,  IBM  360-75  and  EDOS  operating 
systems  desirable, 

Cuok  —  Apply  Leader  Nursing  Center  South.  Dietary  Department.  Mrs  Man- 
ley 

Secretary  ( Legal  i  —  In  Lock  Haven,  Pa ,  Apply  Box  0-5  Sun-Gazette. 
Diesel  Mechanic  —  Miller  Construction  &  Supply  Co  Mechanic  capable  of 
rebuilding  Detroit  diesel  engine. 

Part-time 

tashier-Salcs  —  Book  Nook,  100  Eck  Circle,  East  Third  Street,  rear  McDon- 
alds 

Window  Decorator  —  One  day  per  week.  Pants  Place  Plus,  Lycoming  Mall 
I  four  doors  from  Gee  Bees)  Call  Beth  Alechia,  546-9936  or  546-8160 
Sales  Clerk  —  Pants  Place  Plus,  Lycoming  Mall.  Christmas  Helper, 
Security  Guard  —  3  p.m.  to  10  p.m..  Pants  Place  Plus,  Lycoming  Mall  Christ- 
mas Week. 


News  Briefs 


Spaide  resigns 
aviation  position 

Zane  B.  Spaide  has  resigned  his  position 
as  aviation  maintenance  instructor,  ac- 
cording to  Marhn  E  Roush,  division  direc- 
tor of  Transportation  Technologies.  His 
resignation  became  effective  Wednesday. 
Nov  21. 

Raymond  A  Greaves  will  replace 
Spaide  for  the  remainder  of  the  semester. 
Roush  said,  Greaves  had  retired  last 
spring  after  nme  years  with  the  College 

Roush  said  a  permanent  replacement 
has  not  been  found  for  the  job  The  College 
is  interviewing  applicants  to  (ili  the 
vacancy 

Spaide  will  work  for  U.S.  Air  at  the 
Greater  Pittsburgh  Airport,  Roush  said 
He  will  be  a  maintenance  instructor  on 
their  727  aircrafts, 

Myth  concert  planned 
Dec.  12  in  uuditorium 

There  will  be  a  free  concert  on  Wednes- 
day, Dec  12  at  8  p.m.  m  the  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center  auditorium 

The  concert  will  be  free  to  all  students 

Music  will  be  bv  Mvth 


Chicken  Soup 
can  help  a  cold 

Jewish  mothers  have  always  known  it. 
but  now  along  comes  Dr.  Marvin  A  Sack- 
ner  of  Mount  Sinai  Medical  Center  in 
Miami  Beach  to  prove  it:  You  should  eat 
lots  of  chicken  soup  when  you  have  a  cold. 

In  a  study  at  Mount  Sinai,  Dr.  Sackner 
found  that  fresh,  hot  chicken  soup  cleans 
mucus  from  the  nasal  passages  at  the  rate 
of  9  2  millimeters  per  minute,  compared 
with  8  4  for  hoi  water  and  4  5  for  cold 
water. 

So,  if  your're  down  with  a  winter  cold. 
down  some  hot  chicken  soup  to  be  up  and 
around  again 

The  longest  recorded  push  of  a  normally 
stationary  object  is  1,000  miles  in  the  case 
of  a  wheeled  hospital  bed  by  a  team  of  nine 
from  Fremont-Newark  Young  Men's 
Christian  Association,  California,  in  308 
hours  March  18-31. 1375. 


c<s  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 
326-6966 


Protect 

Your  Valuables 

When  You're  Away 

Thievery  ol  valuables  -  such  as  steieos, 
CB's,  bicycles,  etc,  -  is  a  problem  for  col- 
lege students  today 

Safeguard  your  property  by  engraving 
your  Social  Security  number  on  these 
items. 

An  engraving  pen  is  available  on  an 
overnight  basis  Irom 

Mr.  Charles  I.  Haas, 

Housing  Coordinator, 

Room  104, 

Klump  Academic  Center 


Long  way  lo  go 

You  may  be  able  to  get  away  with 
bank  robbery  in  New  York  City,  but 
watch  out  if  you  gel  a  parking  ticket. 
Elias  Blulh  -  who  lives  in 
Montevideo,  Uruguay  --  just  mailed  in 
his  $40  fine  for  a  ticket  he  got  during  a 
visit. 

Along  with  the  check  came  a  letter 
saying  any  agency  that  can  track  down 


a  foreign  citizen  10,000  miles  away  and 
manage  lo  deliver  a  summons  to  his 
home  "deserves  to  get  paid." 
First  down,  friendship  to  go 

It  took  the  wisdom  of  an  Omaha 
judge  to  settle  one  football  dispute 
recently.  The  argument  involved  two 
former  friends  -  and  a  block  of  eight 
seats  at  the  University  of  Nebraska 
football  stadium  in  Lincoln,  Neb. 

It  seems  that  the  erstwhile  buddies 
used  to  divide  the  block,  four  seats 
each.  They  shared  the  cost,  but  the 
season  tickets  were  bought  in  just  one 
of  their  names. 

Then  complications  set  in,  and  the 
other  fellow  was  left  out  in  the  cold. 
So  he  took  the  case  to  court. 

Then,  the  judge  ruled  that  -  in  his 
words  -  "These  past  friends  shall  be 
forced  to  partake  of  the  holy  ritual  of 
'Big  Red'  football  while  seated  in  prox- 
imity to  each  other." 
Something  different  to  eat 

Here's  a  recipe  for  something  dif- 
ferent, as  provided  by  a  fourth  grader 
in  the  Fermin  Elementary  School  in 
San  Pedro,  Calif.: 

Mix  a  dozen  rattlesnake  eyes,  two 
cups  of  venom,  four  teaspoons  of  rat- 
tlesnake tongue  juice,  three  rattlesnake 
eggs,  two  medium-sized  bats  and  I 
lizard's  tail. 

The  recipe  was  concocted  especially 
for  Halloween,  but... 


By  The  Asiociated  Press 

Wanna  buy  a  town? 

Got  a  cool  million? 

That's  what  it'll  take  to  buy  your 
own  town. 

Cool,  California  is  the  place. 
And  it's  for  sale,  according  toan 
advertisement  run  by  local  officials.  A 
cool  million  for  the  Sierra  foothill 
community,  consisting  of  10  small 
stores  -  and  including  a  post  office 


Let  SPOTLIGHT  classifieds 
work  tor  you!    To  piece  en 
ed,  come  to  The  SPOTLIGHT 
office  in  Klump  Academic 
Center. 


-all  on  just  six  acres  of  prime  Califor- 
nia land. 

Just  a  little  late 

Most  college  students  get  their 
diplomas  at  graduation.  But  when 
Iowa  State  University  officials 
presented  Keith  Merril  with  his  sheep- 
skin recently,  they  went  to  his  Des 
Moines  apartment  for  a  surprise 
ceremony. 

You  see,  the  diploma  was  62  years 
late,  lost  in  the  bureaucracy  after  Mer- 
rill flew  off  to  World  War  I  a  few  days 
before  graduation. 

He's  90  now,  and  has  been  a  draft- 
sman, an  engineer,  and  a  businessman. 
Eat  in '  'em  up! 

This  was  a  chess  game  with  a  twist  in 
Atlanta... 

The  players  had  to  eat  every  piece 
they  captured.  The  chessmen  were  all 
chocolate. 

Former  Georgia  chess  champ  Mike 
Decker  beat  II -year-old  Jay  Schneider 
-  one  of  the  country's  best  young  chess 
players  -  in  the  "World  Chocolate 
Chess  Championship."  But  in 
truth,  they  both  lost  their  appetite  for 
the  game  about  halfway  through. 
l\ow  that's  a  game! 

If  a  dozen  students  at  Central 
Missouri  State  University  have  their 
way,  the  Guinness  Book  of  World 
Records  will  add  a  new  category. 

The  college-types  put  together  a 
week-long  game  of  spades,  ending 
recently  after  nearly  1,200  hands  -  and 
more  than  61,000  cards  -  had  been 
played. 

They  claim  the  180-hour  marathon 
is  the  world's  record  for  a  game  of 
spades  ~  competition  which,  as  yet,  the 
Guinness  Book  doesn't  recognize. 


* 


I  For  a  free  booklet  with  more  ideas 

I  on  how  to  save  energy  and  money,  write 
I  "Energy,"  Box  62,  Oak  Ridge,  TN  37830. 

I  Name  

!  Address 

I  City 

I  State Zip 


ENERGY. 
We  can't  afford 
—to  waste  lt.___ 


Land  of  Oz 

14  fV.  Willow  Street 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 

Finest  Selection 

of  Rolling  Papers  and  Smoking  Accessories 


Monday.  !)«.  7,  1»79  SPOTLIGHT  ftft  7 


CAMPUS  CANDIDS 


Pictures  taken  by  students  in  Journalism  113,  Principles  of  News  Photography. 


..AW^WSSSftSfe 


Page  8  SPOTLIGHT  M<>n 

Resume  writing 
seminar  topic 

Anna  D  Weilz.  career  development 
specialist,  said  there  will  be  a  seminar  on 
resume  writing  and  job  interviewing  skills 
this  week. 

The  seminar  will  be  held  tomorrow 
through  Thursday  in  one-hour  sessions 
each  day.  according  to  Weitz.  She  said  the 
seminar  will  be  in  Room  207  of  the  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

The  schedule  is  tomorrow,  .1  to  4  p.m.. 
■  writing;  Wednesday.  12  to  I  p.m, 
■iting;  Thursday.  Ham  to 
noon,  job  interviewing  skills. 

Quit-smoking  film 
to  be  shown  Dec.  12 

"Let's  Call  It  Quits,"  a  film  dealing 
with  quitting  to  smoke,  will  be 
presented  by  the  dispensary  staff,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs. Nancy  C.  Elias.  It  will 
be  featured  at  11:15  a.m.  and  12:30 
p.m.,    Wednesday,  Dec.  12. 

Tom  Bosley,  star  of  "Happy 
Days",  will  be  the  featured  character 
in  the  film,  sent  by  the  American 
Cancer  Society.  It  is  part  of  a  Health 
Awareness  Program. 

Free  quit  kits  will  be  given  away  at 
the  movie  for  those  who  want  them. 

Government  now  has 
energy  information 

Conduct  ;in  energy  audit  in  your  own 
home  or  .ipartmcnt , 

The  US.  Department  of  Housing  and  Ur- 
ban Development.  Office  of  Policy  Devel- 
opment and  Research.  451  7th  Street.  S.W., 
Room  8126.  Washington  D  C  20410.  has 
published  an  exeellant  guide;  In  the 
Bank  ,  .  ,  or  by  the  (-'himney?  It  contains 
information  on  energy-saving  home  tm- 
provementii  and  information  on  home 
energy  audits. 


Roat  places  in  international  event 

Vincent  R.  Roat,  a  third  semester  advertising 
art  student,  recently  showed  a  horse  that  took  third 
place  in  the  23rd  annual  Keystone  International 
Livestock  Exposition  in  the  Farm  Show  Building  in 
Harrisburg. 

The  horse,  Grand  Opportunity,  placed  in  the 
yearling  and  younger  gelding  class.  This  is  the  class 
for  horses  one  year  or  younger.  He  was  judged  on 
such  things  as  bone  structure  and  coat. 

This  was  Roat's  first  international  competition. 
Before,  he  has  always  allowed  professional  trainers 
to  show  the  horse  in  competition. 

Roat  trains  and  shows  horses  out  of  the  Locust 
Post  Farm.     He  trains  only  Appaloosa  horses. 
After  finishing  his  schooling,  he  plans  to  become  a 
professional  trainer. 


Zany  Week  included 
traded  Ihe  swimmers 


Bulletin  Board 


.SI'OIMS 

Basketball  iMi-l'enn  State,  HazleUmCampus-Away,  Bp.m.Today. 
Wrestling-Baptist  Bible  College  Junior  Varsity-Away,  6: 15  p.m.,  Tomorrow 
Basketball  I  M)-LehighCCC-Home,  8  p.m  ,  Wednesday 
Basketball  iW)-LehighCCC-Home,Gp.m,  Wednesday. 
Basketball  ( M  (-Montgomery  CCC-Home,  8  p  m  ,  Friday. 
Basketball  (WI-MontgomeryCCC-Home,  6  p.m..  Friday. 
Wrestling-PSU  Altoona  Campus-Awav,  2pm.,  Saturdav 

OL'fiNG 
(luting  Club  Cross  Country  Skiing  and  Snowshoeing.  Saturday,  Sunday 

MOVIK 
"Freaks",  "Mansion  of  the  Doomed"  and  "Flash  Gordon",  final  chapte: 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  7 ;  :io  tonight ,  $1  with  student  ID. 
MKKTIN(;S 


Advisory  Council,  3-4  p.m..  Wednesday,  Room  207.  Klump  Academic  Center 
ICC,  4  p,m  ,  Thursday.  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau.  Tomorrow.  4pm,  frat  office.  Unit  0. 
SPtX'IAI, 

Ki?,r''!'  '=7''"»*-«'-'P»«-Elks  Band  Christmas  Concert,  2:30  p.m..  Sunday, 

Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  free  "■""•;. 

A  coffee  house  will  be  held  this  Thursday  at  7  p  m.  in  Klump  Academic  Center 


various  events  such  as  a  swimming  com 
above.  For  additional  details  on  Zari) 

Yearbook  staff  asks 
students  to  suggest 
dedication  ideas 

students  are  being  asked  (or  suggestions 
about  dedicating  the  1980  Montage  (year- 
book! by  Mrs,  Kathryn  M  Marcello,  year- 
book advisor, 

"We  would  like  your  nomination  now." 
she  said  "The  area  is  pretty  much  open  to 
any  faculty  or  staff  member  of  the  Col- 
lege," she  added. 

Anyone  interested  in  submitting  a  nom- 
ination may  do  so  at  the  Communications 
Center,  Klump  Academic  Center,  she  said. 

There  will  be  a  box  labelled  "We  Want 
You"  ,  ,  ,  on  the  desk  of  the  Communi- 
cations Center,  she  added 

"Forms  should  be  circulating  today  lor 
students  to  write  in  their  choice,"  she  said 

Muhammad  Ali  was  the  first  man  to  win 
the  heavyweight  boxing  championship 
three  times. 


petition  which  at- 
K  eek.  see  Page  3. 


Pelleschi's  Unitoim  World 

PROFESSIONAL  UNIFORMS  FOR  MEN  AND  WOMEN 

UW,4lhSt, 

Williamspoit.  ti.  17701 


HOW  TO 
GET  BETTER 

MILEAGE 

FROM  YOUR 

CAR... 


ENERGY. 

We  can't  afford 

to  waste  it. 

U  S    Depaitmeni  o'  Energy 


Mli«MlMlMaiiBab«M 


S5 


too  cu 

"O  CO 


I 


(Z) 

0 

60 

"ai 

SO 

^ 

2t 

a. 
E 

^ 

0 

CO 

n 

Page     2 


SPOTLIGHT 


Monday,     Dec.     10,     1979 


VIEWPOINT 


Editorial 

Play  a  game  of  death 

Play  this  little  game  tonigtit  .   ttiis  exercise  in 
mindwork. 

Wait  until  it's  completely  dark  out.  Have  someone 
time  you  and  after  live  minutes  have  passed,  have 
that  person  tell  you  it's  time  to  stop. 

Go  into  a  room  where  there  is  no  one  else.  Turn 
out  the  lights.  Lie  down  on  the  floor  Clear  your  mind 
completely  until  you  are  thinking  of  nothing 

Pretend  you  feel  absolutely  nothing  Not  a  draft, 
not  the  floor  beneath  you.  Nothing.  Pretend  you 
hear  nothing  and  smell  nothing.  Close  your  eyes  so 
you  see  nothing.    For  five  minutes. 

Imagine  this  nothingness  lasting  forever  You  see. 
you  have  just  pretended  you  were  dead  .  for  five 
minutes. 

Take  it  easy  over  the  upcoming  holidays  so  this 
game  won't  become  real. 


Have  a  merry! 

The  SPOTLIGHT  staff  wishes  students,  faculty, 
staff,  and  administration  a  safe  and  merry  holiday! 


Editorial 

As  semester  ends, 
think  of  beginning 

Next  Wednesday  marks  the  end  of  this  semester. 
We  can  say  "goodbye"  to  books,  term  papers, 
finals,  and  "slave-driving  professors"  for  a  while  and 
enjoy  our  favorite  type  of  relaxation 

For  those  students  who  are  graduating,  the  end  of 
the  semester  begins  a  new  phase  of  their  lives  They 
will  be  embarking  on  new  careers  and  experiencing 
new  situations 

For  those  of  us  remaining,   however,   the 
semester's  end  can  also  be  a  beginning 

The  semester  break  is  an  ideal  time  for  reflection 
on  what  the  past  semester  has  brought  us.  And  what 
we  hope  for  in  the  next  semester 

If  the  grades  weren't  quite  what  we'd  hoped  this 
semester,  a  resolution  to  do  better  next  semester 
could  be  a  consideration. 

"What  you  get  out  of  school  is  only  what  you  put 
into  it"  is  a  cliche,     but  it's  true 

So,  while  you're  out  on  the  slopes  enjoying  the 
freedom,  reflect  on  what  you  can  do  to  make  next 
semester  a  beginning  not  only  of  another  semester, 
but  of  a  whole  new  phase  of  life 


.Movie  Review. 


Lost  Sunday  evening,  1  sot  otop  o  mountoin,  looking  down  at  o  city. 

In  my  retreat  1  found  peoce  and  security.  1  felt  a  sense  of  belonging  to 

tliat  mountoin  —  tfie  earth,  the  moss,  the  trees,  the  wild  flowers. 

As  1  turned  to  the  hills  behind  me,  a  wind  blew  by,  catching  me  off 

guard  and  coptivoting  my  lungs  with  freshness  ond  the  excitement  of 

From  My  Desk 

being  free. 

How  much  for  granted? 

By  Cindy  Snook 

it  was  then  1  realized  just  how  much  nature  hos  given  to  us,  and  how 

Staff  Writer 

much   we  take  for  granted.   Soon   my  mind  began  filling   itself  with 

Peace, 
security: 
Not  in  the  city 


horrendous  thoughts  of  the  wastefulness  thot  hos  beset  our  society. 

I  again  gazed  toward  the  city  and  my  heort  hated  it.  I  hated  mankind 
itself  for  turning  the  earth  into  concrete,  the  moss  into  artificial  turf, 
the  trees  into  morble  columns,  and  the  wild  flowers  into  street 
garbage.  It  seemed  to  me  that  I  lost  my  sense  of  belonging.  I 
wondered  if  the  humon  race  lost  its  sense  of  belonging,   when  its 


simple  minds  began 

I  truly  feel  that  in 
port  of  ourselves  in 
of  a  deep  forest.  I  fe 
I  trek  through  a  city. 

With  this  feeling  c 
to  preserve  nature 
mannerisms  of  soc 
blade  of  gross. 

For   in   the  simpli. 


per! 


ithi; 


tearing  away  at  the  land. 
Through  a  city.  .  .lost 
all  the  progressions  of  our  society,  we  have  lost  a 
the  destruction  of  nature.  When  I  om  in  the  midst 
■el  happy  ond  content  with  life,  with  myself.  When 
I  lose  myself  to  being  just  another  figure, 
if  being  "unindividualized".  t  want  to  do  my  utmost 
.   I   have  lost  so  much  of  my  life  to  the  chaotic 
lety,   thot  I  will  alvVcys  value  even  the  smallest 

city  of  that  one  blade.   I  find  myself  —  the  one 
I  can't  do  without. 


Clarification  of  article 
about  Iranian  students 

A  misunderstanding  of  an  article  published  last 
week  in  The  SPOTLIGHT  in  reference  to  Iranian 
students  on  campus  has  been  called  to  the  attention 
of  The  SPOTLIGHT  staff 

The  article  was  not  meant  to  single  out  any 
students  on  campus;  it  was  an  attempt  to  relate  the 
campus  to  world  events  The  SPOTLIGHT  regrets 
misunderstanding  of  the  article 

The  article  states  there  had  been  two  students  of 
Iranian  descent  who  had  applied  for  admission,  but 
had  decided  not  to  attend  classes. 

In  clarification  IVIrs  Deborah  K.  Grieco,  transcript 
clerk  in  the  Records  Office,  said  there  had  been  a  "a 
couple"  applications  from  Iranians.  The  phrase,  "a 
couple"  was  translated  by  the  writer  of  the  article  as 
"two". 

IVIrs  Grieco  said  there  will  be  at  least  one  Iranian 
student  at  the  College  next  semester.  She  said  she 
doe.s  i?9t  kiiow.at  thistiftie-lf  there  will  be  any  more. 


New  look  is  coming 

In  January,  when  the  College  resumes  its 
regular  schedule  after  the  Christrnas  holi- 
day, The  SPOTLIGHT  will  present  a  new 
look  for  its  readers. 

Series  begins  this  issue 
Beginning  this  issue  with  special 
recognition  to  the  world  of  music,  The 
SPOTLIGHT  begins  a  series  noting  the 
passing  of  the  Decade  of  the  70s, 

What  do  we  remember  of  the  1  970s? 
Will  the  70s  go  down  in  history  as  flam- 
boyantly as  the  60s?  And  what  will  the 
80s  bnng?  In  its  series,  SPOTLIGHTing 
the  70s,  this  newspaper  hopes  to  review 
events  which  might  answer  those  ques- 
tions.. 


•10'  rated  R? 

By  Cindy  M.  Snook 
Staff  Writer 

"10",  produced  by  Blake  Edwards,  is  a  movie 
rated  R? 

Yes,  folks,  that  display  of  skin  and  obscenity  was 
merely  "restricted". 

This  production  is  a  far  cry  from  "The  Sound  of 
fvlusic  "  for  Julie  Andrews  She,  as  well  as  her 
counterpart,  Dudley  IVIoore,  do,  however,  reveal 
more  than  their  bodies  in  the  film. 

IVIoore  and  Andrews  performed  their  respective 
parts  excellently,  bringing  fantasy  to  the  screen  as 
"real  life" 

Not  wanting  to  ruin  the  surprise  of  this  fine  presen- 
tation, I  encourage  you  to  try  it.  Although  a  bit  of 
perception  is  needed  to  pick  up  the  details,  the 
humor  and  realism  combined  in  "10"  are  worth  see- 
ing at  least  once. 

IVIusic  Review 

It's  simply  fun 
to  hear  Baroque 

By  Mollle  Zelewjcz 
Staff  Writer 

"IVIusic  for  the  Baroque  Oboe"  is  presented  using 
authentic  period  instruments.  It  is  a  recording  by 
Odyssey  Records  drawn  from  the  Harmonia  Mundi 
collection  of  masterpieces  in  the  Renaissance  and 
Baroque  traditions 

The  sound  is  a  refreshing  respite  from  the  world  of 
rock,  punk-rock,  and  disco  It  is  pleasingly  light  to  the 
ear  and  encouraging  to  the  heart. 

It  takes  no  special  training  or  skill  to  understand 
Baroque  music     It  is  simply  fun 

If  you're  bored  with  the  usual  musical  tare,  this 
album  could  restore  your  faith  in  music. 

The  SPOTLIGHT 


First  Place  Award  Winner 

Ttie  Columbia 

Scholastic  Press 

Association 

Competition 

The    SPOTLIGHT    is    published   weekly 

throughout  the  academic  year,  except  for 

official  college  vacations,  by  journalism 

and  other  interested  students 

Office:  Room  7,  Klump  Academic 

Center  (basement).     Telephone:  (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221. 

Member.  Columbia  Scholastic 

Press  Association 

Member,  Pennsylvania 

Coilegiate  Press  Association 


The  Staff 
Managing  Editor 

Mollis  Zelewicz 
Campus  Editor 

Jan  L   Daniel 
Associate  Campus  Editor 

John  F  Zelewicz 
Sports  Editor 

Jacqueline  J  Cardene 
Photography  Edior 

Dwighl  E    Schmuck 
Advertising  Director 
and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Brad  E   English 
Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J  Rexei 

and  Michael  Lekiles 


Reporters 

Robed  J  Allen 
John  L    Rickert 
Brian  M  RIppey 
Leslie  M  Rogers 
Trudy  M.  Shively 
Cindy  M  Snook 
Larry  G   Steele 
Christina  N.  Weibley 
Theresa  J  MacKenzie 
Robert  E    Thomas 
Contributing  Reporter 
Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Assistant 
and  Photographer 

Timothy  A    Tolh 


Production  Team  This  Issue 
Trudy  Shively,  Cindy  Snook, 
Jack  Rickert,  and  Brian  Rippey. 


^^^^™W:W:J:::^<:::c&KS=: 


;«^%:|::>iWi^::i**i^ 


Audiovisual 
aids  subject 
of  workshop 

A  workshop  for  faculty  interested  in  im- 
proving or  refreshing  skills  in  the  use  of 
audiovisual  equipment  will  be  conducted 
this  week  by  Neale  A.  Winner,  media  pro- 
duction coordinator. 

The  workshop  will  be  conducted  in  the 
Media  Center  on  three  successive  days  this 
week:  9:30  am.  to  3  p.m  .  Wednesday; 
9:30  a.m.  to  II  am  .  Thursday,  and  9:30 
a.m.  to3p.m.,  Friday. 

Winner  said  that  each  formal  session 
would  last  about  45  minutes.  He  added  that 
faculty  are  being  invited  to  stay  longer  to 
practice  "hands-on"  techniques  using  the 
equipment. 

Interested  faculty  members  are  being 
asked  to  contact  Winner  or  David  P.  Siem- 
sen,  director  of  learning  resources,  at  ex- 
tension 219  or  21 1, 

Africans  indicate 
their  visit  here 
'highlight'  of  tour 

By  Trudy  M.Shively 
Staff  Writer 

The  majority  of  last  month's  African 
visitors  told  their  host  here  that  staying  in 
Williamsport  and  visiting  the  College  was 
clearly  "the  highlight  of  their  stay  in  the 
United  States,"  said  Dr.  Edmond  A.  Wal- 
ters 3rd.  co-ordinator  of  the  program  and 
dean,    postsecondary    instructional    ser- 

The  African  visitors  appreciated  every- 
thing and  felt  they  had  benefited  from  all 
aspects  of  the  seminar,  he  said.  The  only 
^"criticism"  was  that  the  time  spent  here 
was  too  short,  he  added. 

Most  memorable  for  the  Africans  were 
the  College  staff's  and  participant's  under- 
standing of  the  problems  facing  Africa 
today,  their  ability  to  explam  clearly  the 
"why's"  of  technical  and  vocational  edu- 
cation, and  their  "display  of  genuine  con- 
cern and  interest,"  he  said. 

In  a  letter.  Dolores  Vialet,  of  Operation 
Crossroads  Africa,  wrote,  "what  was  most 
evident  to  everyone  was  a  sense  of  per- 
sonal commitment  that  leads  me  to  say 
that  co-ordinating  the  seminar,  both  the 
professional  and  social  aspects,  was  not 
just  a  job  well  done  but  also  a  commitment 
fulfilled  " 


Butane  lighters 
can  be  killers 

Disposable  butane  lighters  can  be 
killers  under  certain  conditions 
according  to  the  American  La- 
France  Company  of  Elmira,  N,Y. 

The  Union  Pacific  Railroad  has 
lost  two  men  in  fatal  accidents  in- 
volving the  lighters  according  to  a 
LaFrance  report  Both  men  were 
carrying  the  lighters  in  their  pockets 
while  in  the  vicinity  of  welders 

Sparks  from  the  welding  caused 
the  liquid  butane  to  explode.  Amer- 
ican LaFrance  reported  in  a  memo 
to  the  science  department  here  that 
one  butane  lighter  contains  the  same 
amount  of  force  as  three  sticks  of 
dynamite. 

The  memo  goes  on  to  warn  that 
people  in  the  vicinity  of  welding  or 
cutting  operations,  or  near  open 
flames,  are  in  danger  if  they  are 
carrying  a  butane  lighter, 

REWARD:  $10  reward.  2  key  rings  of 
approx.  20  keys  lost  in  Bardo  Gym 
between  12:30  and  2  p.m.  on  Thurs- 
day, Dec.  6.  Call  Physical  Plant  and 
ask  for  Marti  Bryant.  Ext.  266.  [advt  ] 


Monday.      Dec.      10.     1979 


SPOTLIGHT 


Jean  Anne  Jennings 
...new  evening  clerk 

Coimnunity  Education 
office  addvS  evening  clerk 

Miss  Jean  Anne  Jennings  has  been 
added  to  the  College  staff  as  a  community 
and  continuing  education  evening  clerk. 

Miss  Jennings,  a  graduate  of  the  Col- 
lege, will  give  clerical  support  for  evening 
on-campus,  non-credit  programs,  accord- 
ing to  Dr.  Russell  C  Mauch,  dean  of  com- 
munity and  continuing  education. 

Miss  Jennmgs  will  work  Monday 
through  Thursday  from  2  to  10  p.m.,  and 
8:30 a.m.  to  4:30  p.m,  on  Fridays, 

Miss  Jennings  was  graduated  from  the 
College,  majoring  in  social  sciences  and 
later  was  a  psychology  major  at  Lycoming 
College,  She  has  spent  3'  ^i  years  in  the  field 
of  social  work  and  has  traveled  across  the 
country, 

Miss  Jennings,  a  native  of  Williamsport, 
enjoys  tennis,  jogging,  reading,  music, 
and  was  formerly  a  dance  instructor 

Dinner-dance  planned 
by  hospitality  students 

Students  and  faculty  of  the  Food  and 
Hospitality  curriculum  will  attend  a  din- 
ner dance  at  the  Old  Corner  Hotel  at  7 
p  m,,  Wednesday. 

A  huffet  will  be  served  to  the  group, 
according  to  John  0,  Burns,  a  member  of 
the  Food  and  Hospitality  curriculum  It 
will  be  a  semi-formal  affair,  he  added, 

A  Christmas  decorating  theme  is  being 
used.  Burns  said. 

Arrangements  were  made  by  Burns  and 
Kimberly  Fox.  also  a  Food  &  Hospitality 
student 

After  dinner,  a  disc  jockey  employed  by 
the  hotel  will  provide  music  for  the  group, 
according  to  Burns 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau 
now  selling  candles 

A  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  candle 
.sale  is  underway  and  will  continue  until 
the  end  of  the  semester,  said  Miss  Darla  J, 
Johnson,  GET  spokesperson. 

Candles  of  various  scents  and  colors  are 
on  sale  in  Room  104-A.  Unit  Six,  at  a  price 
of  $4  each,  she  said. 


Evening  Tot  Watch 
to  continue  in  spring 


The  experimental  Evening  Tot  Watch 
service,  which  began  at  the  beginning  of 
the  present  semester,  will  be  continued  In 
the  spring  semester,  according  to  Dr  Rus- 
sell C,  Mauch,  dean  of  community  and  con- 
tinuing ec'ucatlon. 

Evening  Tot  Watch  provides  educational 
programs  each  Monday  and  Wednesday 
evenmg  from  7:30  to  9:30.  as  well  as  regu- 
lar hours  5:45  to  10:15  pm  Monday  through 
Thursday, 

M'lnilay  night  movies  are  shown  for  the 


children  to  coincide  with  student  movies 
regularly  shown  Monday  evenings  In  the 
auditorium 

Wednesday  evening  Is  Theme  Night, 
which  Includes  special  activities,  such  as  a 
pinata  party  to  be  held  Wednesday,  Dec 
19.  he  said 

Additional  Information  on  registering  a 
child  for  the  Tot  Watch  service  is  available 
from  the  Office  of  Community  and  Con- 
tinuing Education.  Room  102,  Klump  Aca- 
demic Center,  said  Mauch 


World  of  Work 

l.islin^s  l„r  H  ,„/,/  ,.f  H  ark  nn  ,m,r„l„l  In  hrnnk  J.  ;(,.„-»,  .Iimlur.  Coltegf 
l'l,„e„w,il  Dtfu,:  H,mm  M'l.  KInm,,  A„i,U;m,  Crnu-r.  /,„,„,.„.,  .hoM  U  </i- 
rerle,l,.,lh,„.,ff„,: 

Campus  Recruiting 

Eleclrlcal  Construction  (Restricts  December  1979  graduatcsl-Smith  Corona, 
Cortland.  NY  13405 -date  and  time  not  confirmed,  check  with  Placement 
Office.  Room  209,  Klump  Academic  Center 

Career  Employment 

Engineering  Drafting-Conlrol  Chief.  P  O  Box  141,  Bradford,  Pa  16701 
Apply  Personnel  Manager.  814-362-6811 

Tool  De..-  ■g-Smilh  Corona.  Route  13,  Cortland,  NY  13045  Apply  Mr  James 
Dempsey,  Tool  Design  Supervisor,  607-7.53-6011,  Ext  305  or  3% 

Mechanical  or  Engineering  Draflsmen-wilh  local.  Lock  Haven  area  firm 
Apply  Lock  Haven  Employment  office,  Mr  Alex  LechManick,  717-893-2410 

Business  Typist-Hope  Enterprises.  1536  Catherine  Street  Apply  Ms  Dee  Slee 
or  Mr,  Paul  Danuels.  326-3745. 

Computer  Prograrniner-Eureka  Paper  Box  Co  ,  401  Eureka  Place  Apply 
Richard  Wagner,  326-9147. 

Electrical  Construction-Berwick  Forge  Fabrication  (Division  of  Whitlaker" 
Corp  i.Pn  Boxl88,WNinlh  St  .Berwick.  Pa   18603  Apply  Personnel  Office 

OperatiiiB  Room  Technician-Morrislown  Memorial  Hospital.  Morrlstown. 
N.J  07960  Apply  Ms  Phylis  Dalgllsh.  Personnel  Dept..  201-540-5239 

Computer  Operator  and  Programmer -Norwich-Eaton  Pharmaceuticals. 
(DIvisionof  Norton-Norwich  I.  Norwich.  NY  13815  Apply  Personnel  Dept. 

Forester -Log  cutler  and  skidder  operator.  Musi  be  experienced  Phone  482- 
:1251. 

Auto  Mechanic -Foltz  Buick.  333  East  Third  SI  Apply  Bill  Foltz.  326-3724. 

Purchasing  Manager-Bro-Dart.  Inc..  1609  Memorial  Ave.  Apply  Constance 
G  Bone 

Bookkeeper-Leader  Nursing  Center  North  Call  323-8627  for  application 

Mechanical  &  Engineering-CDI  Corp..  100  progress  Parkway.  Maryland 
Heights.  MO  63043. 

Part-Time 

Sales  Clerk-Lerner  Shop,  Lycoming  Mall,  Muncy,  Pa  Must  work  over 
Christmas  recess  Afternoon  and/or  evening  shifts.  Call  or  see  Miss  Wertz. 
Manager.  717-546-3086.  Rate:  $2.90  per  hour. 

Surveyor-Two  weeks  work.  Apply  Howard  Freas.  717-454-1372. 

Dishwasher-Genetti-Lycoming  Hotel.  West  Fourth  Street.  Apply  at  front 
desk. 

Wailresses-waiter-Bourbon  Street.  Call  326-1397  after  3  p.m.  or  326-5633  after 
5p.m. 

Baby  sitting-Friday  nights  and  sometimes  one  or  two  other  nights  a  week.  5, 
p  m  to  1  am.  three  children  seven,  five  and  four  years  old.  Rate  Sl/hour 
Apply  Sam  or  Julia  Minnella,  435-0817 


SALE 


$1,0,00,000  „oeK 

WILSON'S  WAREHOUSE       ON  sale 


THE  BEST  QUALITY  •  HUGE  SELECTIONS  •  LOWEST  PRICES 

Everything  for  The  Great  Outdoors 


^ 


■  Footwear  •  Work-Hunting-Hiking 

■  Outerwear  •  VESTS-JACKETS-COATS 

■  JEANS  •  You  name  it  -  We  have  it 

■  Athletic  Footwear 

GLOVES  •  Mittens 

OPEN  9  AM  •  9  PM  Mon.Fri 


Pre-Season  Ski  Sale 

XC  Cross  Country 

Alpine 

325  Market  St, 
Other  DAYS  9  AM  -  5:30  PM 


Page    4  SPOTLIGHT  Monday,..  D"-,  J?/v J'Z?-.-.-.-.-.-. 


y  ,  "      '/ ' 


,<^v."r''    -'""'%,'A.^^   ,^^„j»v-.    i,-«3. 


Rock  and  roll  dominated 
the  music  of  the    decade 


Well,  here  it  is  the  end 

of  1979     The  end  of 

a  decade. 

So  many  things  have 

happened  to  us,  the  country, 

during  these  last  1 0  years. 

We  have  had 

so  many  good  times  . 

so  many  bad 

During  this  decade  we  have  seen 

the  end  of  a  1  5-year  "conflict" 

The  first  resignation 

of  an  American  president,  the  brink 

of  a  nuclear  povi^er  plant  disaster 

We  have  also  seen 

the  birth  of  many  new 

musical  forms. 

And  the  end  of  many  others. 


A  Decade  of  Many  Sounds 

The  last  1 0  years  have  seen  a  super-huge  assort- 
ment of  musical  interests  nova  and  fade  This  viias 
the  decade  ot  the  "death  of  the  Beatles '  and  the 
birlh  of  "shock  rock"  The  decade  o(  rock  and  roll 
splintering  into  differing  factions. 

These  years  have  seen  super  groups  and  super- 
dupes  all  hyped  up  to  be  the  next  best  thing  to  the 
second  coming  ot  Christ  There  were  groups  such 
as  the  Doors,  Jefferson  Airplane,  Steppenwoll  all 
leaving  last  memories  in  the  annals  of  musical  history 
There  v^rere  dupes,  showing  that  anyone  with 
enough  bucks  behind  them  could  become  a  "one-hit 
wonder"  These  groups  purported  to  have  a  large 
following  back  home,  generally  In  England,  but 
bombed  out  when  they  hit  the  States.  One  by  one, 
they  died  •■  some,  literally,  like  Johnny  Rotten 

The  sound  of  the  1970s  cannot  be  classified  as 

rock,  country,  rythym  &  blues,  jazz,  or  any  one  other 

sound     Rather,  this  was  a  melting  pot  of  sounds, 

each  contributing  its  own  special  "beautiful  noise" 

The  Beginning  o(  the  End 

The  early  70s  saw  groups  such  as  the  Doors,  Jef- 
ferson Airplane,  Steppenwolf,  Crosby-Stllls-Nash- 
and-Young,  Joplin,  Hendrix,  Cream,  and  many,  many 
others 

Of  all  the  groups  mentioned,  only  CSNY  still  sur- 
vives. Of  the  rest,  only  Cream  and  Steppenwolf 
disbanded  without  death  as  a  cause  or  an  effect 

The  Grim  Reaper  took  many  of  the  heroes  of  those 
years.  Artist  such  as  Jim  Ivlorrison  of  the  Doors, 
Janis  Joplin,  Jimi  Hendnx  all  tell  before  his  scythe 
of  death,  leaving  memories  of  bittersweet  love  and 
song. 

The  early  70s  also  saw  the  formal  end  of  the 
Beatles,  leaving  millions  with  their  jaws  agape  This 
four-man  group,  easily  the  most  famous  of  all  time, 
delcared  independence  from  each  other  with  bitter 
lawsuits  and  harsh  words  that  still  fog  the  air  of 
reconciliation 

But  the  sounds  produced  in  these  early  years  was 
inspired  and  inspirational  The  Doors  with  their  haun- 
tingly  beautiful  "Riders  on  the  Storm",  Joplin  doing 
"Me  and  Bobby  lyicGee",  and  Hendnx  doing  all  those 
incredible  things  with  a  guitar  They  left  one  with  a 
feeling  of  awe,  almost  as  if  the  gods  themselves  had 
touched  earth  for  a  scant  tew  moments  and  then 
were  gone  again. 


And  the  night  that  Cream  broke  up     The  only 
televised  Cream  concert  was  when  they   played 
Leeds,  England,  in  1970    Somehow,  about  halfway 
through  the  concert,  everyone  knew  something  was 
wrong     The  three  members  of  Cream  were  crying, 
sobbing  into  the  microphones    And  at  the  end  of  the 
show,  when  Eric  Clapton  said,  "This    This  is  our 
last  time  together,"  the  audience  went  berserk 
Everyone  there  and  at  home  watching  the  satellite 
transmitted  concert  wept,  too    It  was  the  end 
From  Hard  Rock  to  Shock  Rock 

Hard  rock  groups  started  to  fade  out  In  the  early 
70s  only  to  be  replaced  by  what  the  critics 
--sometimes  unkindly  ■-  called  shock  rock  The 
heavy  metal  sounds  of  Steppenwolf's  "Hey  Lawdy 
IVIama'  and  "Born  to  be  Wild"  was  pushed  out  by 
Alice  Cooper's  "I'm  Eighteen  "  and  "Dead  Babies  " 

The  other  hard  rock  groups  faded  out  of  the 
limelight  because  of  death  and  loss  of  audience 
Theatrics  became  the  big  thing  In  the  music  industry 
No  longer  could  an  audience  be  entertained  merely 
With  fine  music  --  they  needed  special  effects, 
choreography,  theater 

Alice  Cooper  entered  stage  center  He  used  the 
entire  gamut  of  theatrical  props  and  magicians 
tricks  guillotines,  super-size  spiders,  hangings,  ex- 
plosions, smoke,  movies,  and  so  much  more  in  his 
shows,  producing  the  desired  effect  and  scaring  the 
crowds  silly 

Soon  enough  there  were  scores  of  imitator  groups 
trying  to  cash  in  on  the  shock-rock  fad  All  but  one. 
Kiss,  died  fast  deaths  Kiss  has  been  around  six 
years  now,  five  years  longer  than  the  critics  said  they 
would  be  However,  Kiss  has  done  things  on  stage 
no  other  group  would  dare  to  do. 


Kiss  bassist  Gene  Simmons  was  once  a  school 
teacher  in  New  York  City  Now  he  has  become  a  fire 
and  blood  spitting  demon,  known  throughout  the 
world  for  his  nether-world  appearance 

Paul  Stanley,  the  groups  lead  gultanst,  is  the  star- 
eyed,  mystically  empowered  embodiment  of  outer- 
worldly  being 

"Ace"  Frehley  is  known  as  the  space  ace,  a 
dimension-hopping  character  straight  out  of  the  com- 
ic books  with  the  power  of  teleportatlon 

Finally,  there  is  cat-man  Peter  Criss  on  drums. 
During  the  shows,  his  drum  set  magically  levitates  far 
above  the  rest  of  the  group,  complete  with  sirens 
a-wail  and  smoke 

Shock-rock  has  come  of  age  with  this  group,  yet 
they  have  shown  the  power  to  adapt  to  the  changing 
tastes  Their  first  record,  "Kiss",  was  all  hard-rock 
with  theatrics  in  the  show. 

Since  then,  they  have  followed  up  with  albums 
showing  improvement  in  their  instrumental  skills  as 
well  as  lyrical  skills,  finally  coming  out  with  the  first 
heavy-metal-disco  single,  "I  Was  (vlade  for  Loving 
You" 

From  Hard  Rock  to  Mellow  Music 

Another  change  In  the  music  world  of  the  70s  was 
the  introduction  ot  "mellow  music"  This  brand  of 
rock-and-roll  was  Immediately  unique  because  of  Its 
low-key,  often  symbolic,  always  tranquil  nature 

John  Denver,  the  country-boy-made-good,  hit  the 
charts  big  In  1970  with  "Rocky  tvlountain  High", 
following  up  with  other  big  chart  busters  for  the  next 
four  or  five  years  Denver  tapered  off  after  1975, 
coming  out  with  only  two  or  three  hit  songs  since. 


iSSS¥a!&>SS¥SiS»V«¥SK!i*J!iSSWS^ 


'■^*'3a!.«5Syi.>^")S'S!»5:"»'<><x 


Mii 


Monday 

sTF 


Dec.     10,     1979 


~^      +Ke 


zno 


While  Denver  was  doing  music  dealing  with  crisp 
Colorado  mountain  air  and  the  beauty  of  the  moun- 
tains. Neil  Diamond  came  back  strong  with  ballads  of 
city  life.  love,  and  people 

Diamond  hit  it  big  in  the  late  60s.  writing  music  for 
the  pop-rock  group,  the  Monkees  He  came  on  big 
in  the  70s  with  tunes  like  "Brother  Love's  Travelin' 
Salvation  Show"  and  "Sing-Song  Blue",  eventually 
achieving  international  star-status 

Neil  Diamond  has  recently  teamed  up  with  Barbra 
Streisand  to  do  "You  Don't  Bring  Me  Flowers", 
another  instant  mellow  hit 

Along  Came  Linda 
In  the  late  1 960s,  a  group  called  the  Stone 
Poneys  brought  out  a  song  entitled  "Different  Drum  " 
This  group  broke  up  shortly  after  this  record  hit  the 
number  one  spot,  with  three  of  the  members  going 
on  to  form  the  country-rock  group,  the  Eagles, 

The  fourth  member  of  the  group  was  a  young  lady 
called  Linda  Ronstadt.  Now  known  as  the  queen  of 
country-rock,  she  has  become  a  legend  and  a  super- 
celebrity. 

Sometimes  in  the  company  of  California  governor 
Jerry  Brown,  Ronstadt  has  influenced  mucic  with 
sons  like  "Desperado"  and  "When  Will  I  Be  Loved  ", 
meanwhile  presenting  herself  as  wholesomeness- 
plus. 

The  Eagles  ,  America,  Kenny  Rogers,  and  many 
many  more  groups  and  solo  singers  came  down  the 
road  during  this  last  half-score  of  years  Each  of 
these  "mellow-music "  or  country-western-rock  ar- 
tists has  left  an  indelible  impression  on  the  musical 
hearts  of  all  of  us 

Somehow,  one  can  trace  out  parts  of  all  of  these 
performers  in  almost  all  of  the  songs  done  by  anyone 
of  them  Perhaps  that's  the  finest  detail  of  this  style 
of  music,  its  blending  of  individuality  into  something 
the  whole  industry  can  be  proud  of 
The  Piano  Players 

Along  about  1972  came  a  novel  approach  to  play- 
ing rock  and  roll  music  Some  musicians  tired  of  the 
never-ending  blast  of  high-tension  stnngs,  returning 
to  the  use  of  a  rather  classical  piece  of  equipment. . 
the  piano 


Text  by 
Dwight  Schmuck 


Drawings  by 
Mike  Lel(ites 


There  had  been  some  groups  who  had  earliei  tried 
to  make  use  of  the  keyboards  as  the  predominant  in- 
strument, but  with  the  exception  of  only  two  or  three, 
these  groups  had  never  had  a  shot  at  the  big  time 
These  exceptions  were,  notably,  the  Doors  with  a 
triple-decked  keyboard  system  which  included 
piano,  organ,  and  harpsichord:  Sly  and  the  Family 
Stone  With  an  elctronic  organ;  and  Steppenwolf,  with 
electronic  organ. 

Of  these  three,  Steppenwolf  used  the  organ 
generally  as  a  harmony  intrument,  only  occasionally 
bringing  out  some  beautiful  lead  riffs  with  the  instru- 
ment 

However,  during  the  early  to  mid-70's,  quite  a  few 
performers  showed  up  using  keyboards  extensively 
People  such  as  Elton  'Don't-Shoot-Me-I'm  Only-The- 
Piano-Player"  John,  Leon  Russell,  back  from  several 
years  of  relative  obscurity.  The  Guess  Who, 
Lighthouse. and.  of  course,  Billy  'The  Piano  Player" 
Joel,  to  name  a  few 

Of  the  above,  only  the  Guess  Who  were  downright 
rockers  The  rest  specialized  their  brand  of  music 
with  some  tunes  featuring  hard  beats  but  most  of  the 
music  was  very  mellow. lay-back-and-listen-to-it  type 
material 

What  Happened  to  the  Country? 

Another  relatively  amazing  metamorphosis  took 
place  in  these  last  1 0  years.  This  was  the  changing 
of  country/western  music  from  a  straight  Nashville 
sound  into  something  nearly  everyone  has  some  lik- 
ing for. 

This,  the  critics  have  said  is  mostly  the  effect  of  a 
few  "outlaw"  musicians.  The  word  "outlaw"  in  this 
sense  indicates  people  who  were  not  satisfied  with 
singing  the  old.  drawling,  mournful,  nasal  tunes  of  the 
40s,  50s,  and  60s. 

What  happened?  People  like  Waylon  Jennings, 
Willie  Nelson,  Glen  Campbell.  Ronnie  Milsap,  and 
Kris  Kristofferson  happened  People  like.  Crystal 
Gale,  Dolly  Parton,  Linda  Ronstadt.  the  Kendalls,  and 
Jessie  Colter  happened 

These,  among  others,  are  the  folks  that  revolu- 
tionized the  Capitol  of  country.  Nashville,  Tennessee 
They  came  down  around  the  start  of  the  decade 
after  playing  all  the  honky-tonk  dives  in  the  country 
determined  to  do  things  their  way  Their  way.  it 
seemed,  was  to  blend  country  lyncs  with  the 
backbeat  of  rock  and  roll,  slowing  down  the  music 
until  it  was  what  is  called  ""outlaw" 

While  this  was  taking  place  in  Nashville,  rockers 
across  the  United  States  were  turning  into  the  coun- 
try sound  creating  a  new  brand  of  rock  and  roll 
Rockin'  Down  to  Nashville 
Ivlany  of  the  superstars  of  the  60s  made 
comebacks  during  this  era  of  music  However,  their 
old  style  could  not  reach  the  audience  as  it  had  years 
ago,  so  they  redid  their  acts,  pulling  older  sounds 
and  newer  methods  together  to  create  what  some 
call  rock-a-billy 

One  of  the  best  known  artists  of  the  early  to 
mid-60s,  a  little  fellow  in  stature  and  a  giant 
throughout  the  world,  became  a  superstar  again. 
Robert  Zimmerman,  nee  Bob  Dylan,  had  become  an 
internationally-reknowned  performer  as  a  folk  singer 
and  poet  during  the  early  years  of  Vietnam  Now,  he 
came  back  with  a  vengeance 

"'Lay.  Lady.  Lay""was  his  first  super  hit  of  the 
70s,  a  song  about  a  prostitute  telling  some  unknown 
woman  she  has  a  really  good  husband  but  if  she"s 
not  careful  the  prostitute  will  have  him  Dylan  in- 
jected this  song  with  his  normal  nasality  but,  this  lime 
he  added  the  influence  of  the  country  sound  to  it. 


Next  was  the  immortal  "Knockin'  on  Heaven's  S 
Door,  "  done  for  the  movie.  "Pat  Garret  and  Billy  the ;; 
Kid  "  This  song  alleged  the  feelings  Pat  Garret  had  j 
after  he  shot  the  youthful  murderer;  feelings  that  his  ii 
life,  too,  had  been  finished  with  the  same  bullet.  ■: 
Another  artist  of  the  60s  who  made  a  great  j 
comeback  in  the  70s  was  Kenny  Rogers,  Kenny  :• 
Rogers  first  became  known  back  in  1 963  for  the  1; 
song  "Just  Dropped  in  to  See  What  Condition  My  i 
Condition  Was  In  "  Next,  in  1 969.  with  the  First  Edi-  ■: 
tion.  Rogers  became  an  "overnight"  celebrity  with  i 
the  song  "Ruby,  Dont  Take  Your  Love  to  Town ■""     :! 

Kenny  Rogers  and  the  First  Edition  went  on  to  do  :| 
more  good  work  in  the  very  early  70s,  then  faded  out  :; 
of  sight  Then,  in  1976.  Kenny  Rogers  came  out  ii 
with  a  solo  hit  called  ""Lucille""  This  song  had  its  ;! 
roots  in  Nashville,  but  used  some  guitar  riffs  andJuns  |: 
that  were  straight  out  of  rock,  if  somewhat  slowed  ji 
down  i; 

Rogers  has  had  nothing  but  super  hits  since,  in-  :i 
eluding,  "The  Gambler"",  the  number  one  country  \ 
song  lor  1979,  "She  Believes  in  Me",  and  others  too  i; 
numerous  to  mention,  .*: 

All  these  songs  have  crossed  the  line  from  straight  ;• 
rock  into  the  land  of  country/western,  bringing  a  \ 
faithful  following  info  new  realms  of  music 
So  Where's  Rock  Now? 

With  the  transformation  of  standard  rock  and  roll  ;! 
into  these  factions,  one  might  become  confused  as  ;: 
to  what  IS  happening  to  the  old-time  rock  and  roll      i 

Not  to  worry  Many  groups,  with  a  little  readjust-  I 
ment,  are  still  serving  a  good  menu  of  very  listenable,  I 
dariceable  rock  music  I 

Groups  like  Boston,  Electric  Light  Orchestra,  the  I 
Who,  Queen,  and.  of  course,  the  Rolling  Stones  : 
keep  the  soul  of  rock  and  roll  very  much  alive.  These  : 
bands  seem  to  have  kept  to  the  true  path  of  old-time  I 
rock,  albeit  using  modern  instruments  and  other  • 
equipment 

Of  the  above,  only  the  Who  and  the  Rolling  Stones  ; 
have  been  around  since  the  60s  These  two  groups  \ 
were  a  dominant  force  in  the  shaping  of  the  rock  and  \ 
roll  world  then  and  have  maintained  their  reputations  i; 
and  forcefulness  even  now  Ii 

The  Who  were  first  cast  into  the  international  •: 
limelight  at  Woodstock  in  August  of  1969.  This  j 
group  had  been  popular  in  England  tor  about  five  :■ 


*W{>'JA¥.'¥.'¥SiSS:W: 


Page    6 


SPOTLIGHT 


Monday,     Dec. 


Rock  and  roll  dominated 


years  prior  to  this  even,  developing  a  large  following 
among  the  "mod"  youth  of  that  era  The  Who  came 
to  America  and  swept  the  country,  gaining  nothing 
but  great  reviews  and  fervent,  zealous  fans  who 
would  do  anything  to  be  at  a  Who  concert 

The  Rolling  Stones  are  the  oldest  surviving  rock 
and  roll  band  in  the  world  At  one  time  they  were 
considered  second  only  to  the  Beatles  in  musician- 
ship and  fame  Now,  having  outlasted  the  only  real 
competitors  they  had,  the  Rolling  Stones  must  be 
considered  the  number  one  rock  and  roll  band  in  the 
world 

Queen,  a  four  man  group  from  England,  caught 
the  listeners  oflguard  when  they  released  their  first 
American  album  back  in  1973  The  strange  soun- 
ding lead  guitar  and  the  octave-breaking  vocals 
were,  in  a  word,  fantastic 

The  lead  guitar  was  wierd-sounding  for  a  good 
reason  It  was  a  one-ot-a-kind,  made  piece  by  piece 
over  a  period  of  a  year,  according  to  one  Queen 
press  release 

The  octave-breaching  vocals  emanated  from  Fred- 
die Mercury  who  crosses  between  tenor  and 
baritone  much  as  an  infant  crawls  across  the  floor 
Qne  of  their  best  selling  albums  was  "A  Night  at 
the  Opera"  leatunng  the  super-hit  single,  "Bohemian 
Rhapsody",  a  song  about  a  murderer  on  the  run  In 
this  song,  (i/lercury  and  company  displayed  genius 
and  imagination  explonng  the  depths  and  heights  of 
vocal  and  instrumental  tones 

After  these  groups  brought  the  world  beggingly  to 
its  knees,  other  groups  brought  about  yet  another 
change  in  the  music  industry 

Along  Came  Disco 
Somewhere  about  1975,  a  new  dance  craze 
claimed  the  hearts,  minds,  and  souls  of  the  dance 
buffs  of   the   country   --   a  movement  known  as 
"disco". 

Disco  musicians  did  not,  as  some  said,  merely 
change  the  beats  of  older  songs  Rather,  they  were 
quite  inventive  and  innovative  in  their  styling  of  their 
brand  of  music. 

Artists  such  as  Rod  Stewart  with  "Do  You  Think 
I'm  Sexy"  and  "Hot  Legs"  came  of  age  with  this 
form,  making  millions  of  fans  and  dollars  in  the  pro- 
cess 

Stewart  had  become  a  star  with  his  "H/laggie" 
series  in  the  late  60s  and  early  70s,  but  set  the 
world  on  its  collective  ear  when  he  turned  from 
straight  rock  to  disco 

Others  like  Donna  Summer    and  her  "Bad  Girls" 


album  combined  soul  and  disco,  creating  a  new 
music  unlike  that  heard  before. 

Then  came  the  biggest  name  of  them  all  in  the 
disco  field  This  band  had  been  of  some  fame  in  the 
late  60s.  abandoning  music  when  personal 
disagreements  threatened  their  family  lives  Their 
big  hit  back  then  had  been  "I  Gotta  Get  A  fvlessage  to 
You" 

This  three-brother  singing  group  was.  of  course, 
the  Brothers  Gibb.  or  more  commonly  known  as  The 
Bee-Gees  These  lellows  have  had  nothing  but  hit 
after  hit  since  becoming  disco-musicians 

Of  course,  when  talking  disco,  one  other  name 
has  to  be  mentioned  That  name  has  become 
synonymous  with  disco-dancing  and  the  movie, 
"Saturday  Night  Fever"  The  man  who  became  a 
superstar  because  of  both     John  Travolta 

Travolta  has  become  the  heartthrob  of  the  pre- 
pubescent  set,  and  with  his  teaming  up  with  Olivia 
Newton-John,  the  adolescent  craze  of  the  70s 
How  to  Boogie  With  A  Punit 
The  next  strange  sound  to  hit  the  charts  and 
develop  innumerable  followers  was  the  music  of 
punk  rock 

Punk  rock  was/is  to  its  followers  the  returning  of 
rock  and  roll  to  its  natural  element,  that  of  sheer 
rebellion.  The  punk  rockers  costumed  themselves 
along  with  their  fans,  screamed  lyrics  of  death  and 
destruction  into  concert  halls  and  off  albums  and 
generally  created  near-hysteha  whenever  possible. 

Probably  the  best  known  group  of  punk  rock  musi- 
cians was  the  band  called  Johnny  Rotten  and  the 
Sex  Pistols,  This  band  from  England  became 
numeio  uno  punk  rock  band  with  its  crazed  theatrics 
and  wierd  lyhcs. 

It  also  became  the  first  martyred  punk  band  when 
Sid  Vicious,  a  member,  was  arrested,  released,  and 
committed  suicide  in  New  York  City. 

For  some  reason,  after  Vicious's  death,  punk  rock 
has  pretty  much  died  out,  too 

And  A  New  Wave  Hit  the  Charts 

Never  fear,  though,  new  ("?)  sounds  were  to  come 
out  in  the  last  couple  of  years  of  the  decade 

The  New  Wave  music,  as  it  is  called,  seems  to 
have  returned  rock  and  roll  to  its  late  50s  roots.  In  a 
musical  sense  only 

The  instrumental  parts  of  the  sound  are  much  the 
same  as  what  came  over  the  airwaves  then,  very 
danceable,  very  easy  to  move  with  The  lyrics  on  the 
other  hand  are  very  different 


Lyrically  speaking.  New  Wave  is  far  superior  to 
what  rock  began  as.  The  words  of  New  Wave  often 
tell  a  short  story  in  a  song.  They  lead  the  listener 
along  a  guided  tour  of  the  singer's  thoughts  and  feel- 
ings 

One  of  the  best  known  New  Wave  bands  is  Blon- 
die  out  of  New  York  City  This  band,  featuring 
Deborah  Harry,  is  widely  known  tor  its  rocking  tunes 
and  symbolic  lyncs  with  songs  like  "11:59"  and 
"One  Way  or  Another", 

Unfortunately,  most  New  Wave  bands  seem  to  be 
trying  to  cash  in  on  the  success  of  the  initiators  of  the 
sound  These  bands  show  little  originality  and  a  lot 
less  talent,  Ivlaybe  they  can  dig  ditches  in  the 
li/larianas  Trench 

So  Many  and  So  Little 

So,  here  we  are  at  the  end  of  this  decade  Once 
more  the  clock  has  spun  Its  merry  course  through 
the  lives  of  us  all.  And  again,  much  music  has  come 
and  gone 

Obviously,  in  this  little  space,  we  could  not  delve 
into. all  the  bands  of  importance  in  the  70s  Or  all  the 
individual  musicians  that  achieved  greatness 

Unnamed  but  not  forgotten  are  people  such  as  the 
IVIotor  City  Ivladmen,  Ted  Nugent,  Dr  Hook,  Carly 
Simon,  and  so,  so  many  others 

Also  not  included  in  this  review  were  music  forms 
such  as  Rythym  and  Blues,  Jazz,  highbrow  rrnjsic 
and  others.  This  commentary  was  concentrated  on 
rock  and  roll. 

Still,  these  forms  should  not  be  overlooked  as 

possible  means  of  personal  enjoyment  or  for  their 

contributions  to  rock    tvluch  of  what  is  played  on  AM 

and  FM  is  directly  related  to  these  forms  of  music. 

The  State  of  the  Art 

And  now  we  will  open  the  decade  of  the  80s,  To 
use  the  words  of  the  Rolling  Stones'  hit  song, 
"Angle  ":   "Where  will  it  lead  us  from  here"? " 

One  thing  that  can  be  said  is  that  rock  and  roll  is 
definitely  an  art-form  of  its  own  It  has  created  a 
culture  and  a  lifestyle  that  no  one  can  deny 

If  by  chance  rock  music  could  be  a  single  entity 
that  could  converse  with  its  listeners,  the  statement 
it  might  make  for  the  next  1 0  years  would  be  -  to 
paraphrase  Shakespeare  --  "friends,  countrymen, 
give  me  your  ears" 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents: 

TONIGHT! 

Last  Show  of  the  semester 

Nostalgia  Night 
Starring  the  Marx  Brothers 

Klump  Academic  Center 
7:30  p.m. 
25C 

Movies  Resume  Jan.  21,  1980 


ANIGHT  AT  THE  OPERA 

.  .  tunny  beyond  the  power  of  the  words  to 

be  funny."  -  Mark  Van  Doren.  Natic 

FILMS  INCORPORATED 


Cillo's 
College   Corner 

CILLO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE: 

Phone  322-1321, 

Call  aliead  fo'  t^lie-out  orders. 

We  will  have  order  ready  for  you  to  pick  up. 

Hours:  7  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 

Open  for  Breakfast: 

7  a.m. 

Breakfast  Served  'til 
10:30  a.m. 


Students  play 
for  free  lunches 

Students  walking  through  the  line  in 
the  Cafeteria  have  been  playing  the 
"Meal  Ticket  Game"  for  the  past 
week. 

"The  game  is  a  promotion  to 
stimulate  business...  although  no  pur- 
chase is  necessary,"  said  Ms.  Bonita  L. 
Molino,  a  cafeteria  clerk. 

"On  the  average,"  Ms.  Molino  said, 
"one  in  every  10  tickets  wins  a  free 
drink,  a  free  meal  for  a  day,  or  a  free 
meal  for  a  week...  leaving  seven  'sor- 
ries'." 

If  the  recipient  of  a  ticket  finds  one 
heart  on  his  ticket,  he  is  entitled  to  a 
free  soft  drink.  Two  hearts  wins  a  free 
meal  and  three  hearts  on  the  same 
game  piece  wins  a  free  meal  a  day  for  a 
week. 

One  comment   from  a  player: 
Robert    E.    Thomas,   journalism   stu- 
dent, observed,  "If  you  don't  win,  you 
can    always    use  -  the    card     for    a 
bookmarker." 

Toni  Mabie 
high  scorer 
in  first  game 

By  Jackie  Cardeiie 
Staff  Writer 

The  women's  basketball  team  lost  their 
first  game  against  the  Community  College 
of  Philadelphia  on  Saturday.  Dec  1.  The 
final  score  was  66  to  43.  The  game  was 
played  in  Bardo  Gym. 

Toni  L.  Mabie.  center,  was  high  scorer 
with  17  points.  She  is  a  returning  player 
from  last  year  and  a  computer  science 
major.  She  had  six  goals,  five  points  from 
the  foul  line,  and  two  assists. 

Second  highest  scorer  was  Alice  M 
Kennedy,  a  forward,  who  had  nine  points 
She  had  two  goals  and  one  point  from  the 
line-  She  is  a  practical  nursing  student. 

Donna  L.  Elsasser.  guard,  and  Liz  C. 
Baker,  forward,  also  combined  for  the 
team's  43  points. 

According  to  Mrs.  Katherine  Revello, 
the  coach,  the  loss  was  mainly  due  to 
nervousness.  She  said,  "The  team  was 
very  nervous  and  had  a  case  of  the  first 
game  jitters,"  Mrs,  Revello  also  noted 
lack  of  height  and  excessive  turnovers 
were  other  disadvantages. 

The  game  scheduled  that  was  to  be  play- 
ed against  Lehigh  Community  College, 
Wednesday,  Dec  5,  was  cancelled  due  to 
Lehigh  dropping  the  women's  basketball 
club 

The  women's  next  game  is  tonight  when 
they  will  be  dueling  with  Lycoming  College 
JV's  at  Lycoming 


Monday,     Dec.      10,     1979 


SPOTLIGHT 


Page     7 


College  recognition 
sought  with  petitions 


Petitions  will  be  placed  on  the  bulletin 
boards  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center  for 
the  purpose  of  making  the  Theater  Corn- 
any  an  activity  or  an  elective. 

Frank  J.  Bowes,  student  activities  and 
placement  director,  said  he  needs  as  many 
names  as  possible  on  the  petitions. 

Bowes  acknowledged  that  Mrs,  Lea  Fry- 
mire.  Theater  Company  advisor,  has  been 
working  without  pay  for  the  past  one  and 
one-half  years 

'Sweet  Spectacular' 
planned  Thursday 

A  "Sweet  Spectacular"  will  be  held  at 
11:30  a,m.  Thursday  in  Room  105.  Klump 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Mrs.  Ann 
R.  Miglio. 

First*year  food  and  hospitality  students 
will  prepare  Christmas  cookies  and  other 
sweets  for  second-year  students  and  sel- 
ected faculty  members.  Mrs.  Miglio  said. 

The  purpose  of  this  event,  Mrs,  Miglio 
said,  is  for  the  students  to  get  acquainted 
with  each  other.  It  also  relates  to  the  lab 
work  they  are  doing  on  sugar  cookery. 


It  would  probably  make  finding  another 
source  of  funding  available,  said  Bowes, 
who  is  also  student  activity  funds  com- 
mittee chairman. 

The  addition  of  the  Theater  Company  as 
an  activity  or  elective  presents  a  threat  to 
increasing  the  activity  funds,  he  said. 

Anyone  interested  in  seeing  the  Theater 
Company  become  a  part  of  the  College  is 
asked  to  sign  one  of  the  petitions. 

Suggestions  for  Montage 
dedication  being  taken 

The  "We  Want  you  "  1980  yearbook 
nomination  box  is  available  for  nomin- 
ations, according  to  Kathryn  M.  Marcello. 
yearbook  advisor,  and  director  of  student 
records,  reminded  students  this  week. 

The  nominations  will  be  accepted  until 
the  end  of  this  semester,  she  said,  and 
'everyone's  participation  is  needed  ' 

The  nomination  ballots  and  box  are 
available  at  the  Communications  Center 
desk,  first  floor  of  Klump  Academic 
Center,  she  said,  for  anyone  who  has  not 
cast  their  ballot. 


'Left  over'  coal 
offered  for  sale 

The  college  has  about  30  tons  of  coal 
which  will  be  sold  by  bid  in  the  near  future, 
according  to  James  C  McMahon,  admin- 
istrative assistant  to  the  dean  for  admin- 
istratives. 

The  coal,  in  the  boiler  room  of  the  Sus- 
quehanna Street  shops,  was  "left  over" 
when  the  college  converted  to  oil  heat, 
McMahon  said. 

■'We  converted  to  oil  heat  there  a  num- 
l>er  of  years  ago,  '  McMahon  said.  He 
added  that  there  was  no  possible  use  for 
the  coal  on  campus 

Bids  maybe  left  in  McMahon's  office  in 
Unite 

"Anybody  will  be  able  to  bid  on  it," 
McMahon  said  about  the  coal 

The  buyer  will  have  to  supply  trans- 
portation for  removal  of  the  coal,  he  ex- 
plained. 

Friday  is  (leadline 

to  pay  parking  fines 

Lawrence  P.  Smeak.  head  of  security, 
said.  "All  fines  and  tickets  not  paid  by 
Dec  14  (Friday)  will  be  turned  over  to  the 
Records  Office  This  will  result  in  the  with- 
holding of  grades  until  payment  is  re- 
ceived." 


SPORTS 


Dennis  Wise  (top),  a  broadcasting  student  from  Enola,  and  returning  varsity  grappler 
Tom  Hustler,  electrical  technology  student  from  Port  Royal,  work  on  a  half  nelson  dur- 
ing practice.   The  College  grapplers  have  an  away  match  this  Thursday. 

Wildcats  drop  opener, look  to  tomorrow  investment  ciub 

Ken  Lance  was  the  high  scorer,  en- 
ding with  16  points.  Lance  had  six 
goals  and  three  points  from  the  line. 
Mark  A.  Gilliam  was  second  high 
scorer  with  four  goals  and  four  points 
from  the  line. 


By  Jacliie  Cardene 
Staff  Writer 

The  men's  basketball  team  lost  its  first 
game  against  the  Community  College 
of  Philadelphia  on  Saturday,  Dec.  1. 
The  team  looks  to  its  next  scheduled 
game  tomorrow  when  the  Wildcats 
travel  to  Northampton  County  Com- 
munity College. 

Matt  J.  McFadden,  a  second-year 
general  studies  student,  was  the  team's 
high  scorer,  with  20  points.  McFadden, 
a  forward,  is  playing  his  first  year  of 
basketball  for  the  College. 

Randy  L.  Jones  was  the  second  high 
scorer  finishing  with  15  points.  He  is  a 
second  year  business  management  stu- 
dent, 


Mark  A.  Gilliam,  Thomas  S.  Notor, 
John  F.  Raisch,  and  John  F.  Gray  also 
scored  to  add  to  the  36  points  ac- 
cumulated by  McFadden  and  Jones. 


Lack  of  height,  according  to  Larry 
J.  Manikowski,  coach,  was  the  main  JohnSOll  Osks  VetCranS 
advantage.  He  said,  "We  were  a  halt 
of  a  foot  too  short."  He  said,  too,  that 
not  one  of  the  opponents  was  under  six 
feet  tall. 


When  the  Wildcats  were  defeated  by 
Penn  State's  jayvees,  the  Wildcat 
record  went  to  0-3.  The  score  was 
72-53.  The  College  team  travelled  to 
Penn  State's  Hazleton  campus  for  the 
game. 


lo  bring  attendance  sheet 

Veterans  enrolled  in  a  certificate  pro- 
gram who  are  planning  to  graduate  in  De- 
cember are  reminded  to  bring  attendance 
sheets  for  November  and  December  to 
Mrs  Vicki  L,  Johnson,  veterans  affairs 
specialist,  according  to  Mrs  Johnson 

For  more  information,  contact  Mrs 
Johnson  in  the  Records  Office,  from  8am 
until  4  p.m..  Monday  through  Friday. . 


formed  on  campus 

The  Investment  Club  is  a  new  organ- 
ization on  campus.  It  held  its  first  official 
meeting  Wednesday,  Nov  26,  The  new 
club  is  a  branch  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda, 
i  PBL)  a  business  fraternity, 

Andy  W,  Wentz.  reporter  for  the  Invest- 
ment Club,  said  the  group  will  meet  every 
other  Wednesday,  alternating  with  PBL, 
Meetings  will  be  at  3:45  p  m  .  in  Room  302, 
Klump  Academic  Center 

Advisor  to  the  new  club  is  Thomas  C, 
Leitzel,  assistant  advisor  to  PBL 

Club  officers  are  Frank  J  Berleth, 
chairman.  Kathy  A  Berleth,  treasurer; 
Antoinette  Noviello.  secretary,  Theresa  J, 
Armstrong,  correspondent;  Andy  W. 
Wentz,  recorder.  William  I  Troxell.  com- 
miUee  ehairman.-  -      - .  .  .  - . 


Page     8  SPOTLIGHT  Monday,     Dec.      10,     1979 

iSSilKiW;**;-:;;--  •  ■  :  -  :;-:-::-:v;vW-k-:- 


Bulletin  Board 

MEETINGS 

Student  Government   Association,  4  pm  .   tomorrow.   Klump  Academic 

Center,  Room  132 
Student  Activities  Fund  Committee.  3  pm  ,  Monday,  Dec    17,  Room  207, 

Klump  Academic  Center 

MOVIE 
■Night  at  the  Opera",  7:30  p  m  tonight,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditor 

ium,*l  with  student  ID 

SPOKTS 
BasketbalK  W  )-Lycoming  College  JV.  away,  7  pm  ,  today 
Basketball  ( Ml-Northampton  County  Area  CC,  away,  6pm,  tomorrow 
BasketbalKW  1 -Northampton  County  Area  CC,  away,  6  pm  ,  tomorrow 

Wrestling-Corning  CC,  away.  8  p  m . ,  Thursday 
Basketball  ( M  )-Bucks  County  CC.  home,  8pm,  Friday 
Basketball  (W)-Bucks  County  CC,  home,  6  pm  .  Friday 
Basketball  I M  )-Ml  Aloysius  Junior  College,  home,  3  p.n 
Basketball  iW)-Mt.  Aloysius  Junior  College,  home,  1  p.rr 

DINNER 
December  graduates,  6:30  pm  .  Wednesday,  Klump  Academic  Center  Cafe- 
teria. 

(  IIRISTMAS  EVENTS 

Christmas  Party,  sponsored  by  Student  Government  Association,  11 :30  am 

to  2  30  p  m  Friday.  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  free  with  student  ID 

Christmas  Musical,  Theater  Company.  8  pm  ,  Thursday,  Klump  Academic 
Center  Auditorium, 

Phi  »ci,i  l„iiiilnla.  Eighth  Annual  Christmas  Party,  Friday.  Room  311, 
Klum|.  A.. iiiK  ivntcr. 

Theater  company  members 
attend   local  retreat 


President  given  raise 
at  Trustees  meeting 


,  Saturday. 
,  Saturday 


Hy  Jack  KIckrrI 

Staff  Writer 

Three  members  of  the  Theater  Company 

attended  a  retreat  during  the  weekend  of 

Dec  land 2 

The  students  attended,  said  Mrs,  Lea 
Frymire,  advisor,  to  get  acquainted  with 
15  foreign  exchange  students  visiting  the 
Williamsport  area. 

Agribusiness 
students  form 
new  college  club 

The  agribusiness  class  of  the  College  re- 
cently formed  a  club,  taking  the  name  of 
the  Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Ag-Business  Club,  according  to  Rose  Ann 
Mastantoni,  vice  president  of  the  club. 

The  club's  motto  will  be  "Working  To- 
gether lor  a  Better  Tomorrow" 

Officers  of  the  club  are  Charles  J 
Anchor,  of  New  Columbia,  president ;  Rose 
Ann  Mastantoni,  of  Philadelphia,  vice 
president,  David  C,  Williams,  of  Linden, 
secretary,  and  Dean  K.  James,  of  Eliz- 
abelhtown,  treasurer.  Club  advisor  is 
Roger  D  Apple, 


The  exchange  students  will  present  a 
show  Feb,  9  in  the  Church  of  the  Annunci- 
ation in  Williamsport  According  to  Mrs. 
Frymire,  the  Theater  Company  will  help 
them  rehearse  the  show. 

The  retreat  was  sponsored  by  the  Inter- 
national Student  Coordinating  Association 
of  Lycoming  County  lISCALCl  Directing 
ihe  retreat  were  Chris  and  Janet  Espen- 
shade,  of  Montoursville, 

Students  attending  were  Viola  L  Hursh, 
general  studies;  Larry  A,  Fink,  carpentry 
construction  and  Kim  A  Steele,  general 
studies, 

Dr  Edmond  A  Wallers  3rd,  dean  for  de- 
gree and  certificate  programs,  Mr  and 
Mrs,  Ron  Frymire.  and  Marly  Kuntz.  who 
hopes  to  become  a  student  at  the  College, 
also  attended, 

Dr,  Walters  is  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  ISCALC 

The  Theater  Company  will  perform  at 
the  Women's  Christmas  Banquet  this 
Thursday, 

The  banquet  will  be  held  at  the  Best 
Western  University  Inn,  US,  Route  15, 
South  Williamsport, 

The  first  person  to  ever  reach  the  top  of 
Mount  Everest  was  Tenzing  Norkhay.  of 
Nepal. 


By  Larry  Steele 
Staff  Writer 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees  acted 
on  a  number  of  items,  including  ap- 
proval of  a  $4,000  pay  raise  to  Dr. 
William  H.  Feddersen.  president,  dur- 
ing a  Dec.  3  meeting.  The  raise  will  be 
retroactive  to  last  July  I. 

The  raise  was  questioned  as  to  what 
effect  it  would  have  on  the  sponsoring^ 
school  districts.  Dr.  John  H.  Bone 
said  all  factors  were  considered.  He 
added  that  the  raise  was  "on  the  basis 
of  merit." 

Another  trustee.  Mrs.  Gay  Camp- 
bell, said  Dr.  Feddersen  had  been  hired 
"at  a  sub-minimum  salary,  which  we 
haven't  caught  up  yet." 

Also,  the  board  gave  its  approval 
that  the  Community  Counselling  Ser- 
vice Company.  Inc..  of  New  York  Ci- 
ty, be  engaged  to  provide  pre-capital 
counseling  and  services.  The  service 
will  be  provided  at  a  cost  of  $400  per 
visil  plus  Iransportation  reimburse- 
ment. 

Approval  was  also  given  to  pay  year- 
ly maintenance  costs  on  computer 
equipment  at  the  College.  The 
maintenance  costs  of  $3 1 .932  to  Sperry 
Univac  and  $10,240  to  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation  (DEC)  have  been 
provided  for  in  this  year's  budget. 

The  following  bids  were  also  award- 
ed: 

-Tektronix,    for    electronics 
laboratory  equipment. 

-John  Powell  Chevrolet,  for  a  four- 
wheel  drive  crew  cab  truck. 

-Allenwood   Equipment,   for  a 
hydraulic  elevating  tractor  scrapper. 

-IBM    Corporation    in    Mon- 
toursville. for  an  IBM  6640  Highspeed 

Copier  will  undergo 
maintenance  servicing 

The  1500  copier,  located  in  Duplicating 
and  Mail  Services  will  be  shut  down  from 
Dec  19  through  28. 

According  to  Mrs,  Judith  L  Demko.  co- 
ordinator, the  machine  will  undergo  a 
complete  preventative  maintenance 

No  copies  will  be  run  on  the  machine 
during  this  time.  Materials  to  be  copied  for 
these  dates  should  be  sent  to  Duplicating 
and  Mail  Services  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
no  later  than  this  Wednesday,  said  Mrs, 
Demko, 

There  were  3,250,073  babies  born  in 
American  hospitals  during  1978. 


ink  jet  printer  and  IBM  electronic  and 
electric  typewriters  and  word  process- 
ing computer  communication  package. 
-Dictaphone  Corporation  in 
Williamsport,  for  equipment  to 
upgrade  the  secretarial  science  cur- 
riculum. 

-Humanoid  Systems,  of  Carson, 
Calif.,  for  a  total  body  phantom 
(PIXY). 

Two  new  programs  to  be  instituted 
at  the  Lewisburg  Penitentiary  were  also 
approved.  To  be  implemented  are 
heating  and  air  conditioning  and  small 
engine  repairs. 

The  board  also  accepted  five 
resignations  and  approved  one  retire- 
ment. Retiring  is  Marjorie  M.  Delker. 
accounting  clerk.  Resigning  are  Bruce 
E.  Benson,  bus  driver  and  general 
laborer;  Thomas  H.  Woodruff  Sr.. 
small  engine  repair;  Zane  B.  Spaide, 
aviation  instructor;  Miss  Mary  Mann- 
ing, general  ledger  bookkeeper,  and 
Mrs.  Donna  L.  Gamble,  mailperson. 

Mrs.  Kathryn  M.  Marcello.  director 
of  student  records.  gave  the  report, 
"Student  Records  and  Registration." 

The  next  Board  of  Trustees  meeting 
will  be  at  7:30  p.m..  Monday,  Jan,  7, 
in  the  Parkes  Automotive  Building. 

Thorton  begins 
internship  here 

Jay  Thornton  begins  his  internship  here 
tomorrow,  Dec.  II.  according  to  Dr. 
Edmond  A  Walters  3rd,  dean  of  degree 
and  cerlificate  programs 

Thornton's  professional  and  educational 
efforts  have  centered  around  "reading  in 
occupational  education."  he  said. 

Some  of  the  main  areas  of  interest  and 
development  scheduled  are  as  follows: 

—Assisting  Margaret  A.  Thompson  in 
implementing  reading  grants  and  develop- 
ing a  comprehensive  occupational  reading 
program  for  faculty  and  students. 

—Developing  a  comprehensive  staff 
development  program  for  staff  on  "special 
needs  students"  at  the  College. 

—Developing  a  recommended  faculty 
educational  program  designed  to  meet 
the  needs  of  new  faculty  and  upgrade  the 
existmg  faculty,  assisted  by  Glenn  R. 
Spoerke.  assistant  professor  in  forestry. 

—Participating  in,  discussing,  and  re- 
viewing the  administration  function  of  the 
dean,  with  special  emphasis  on  program 
evaluation,  articulation,  program  devel- 
opment and  community  college  manage- 
ment. 


Cornell  student  doing  internship 


University,  is  practicing  internship  in  the 
Food  and  Hospitality  program  here,  ac- 
cording to  Dr  Edmond  A.  Walters  3rd. 
dean,    postsecondary    instructional    ser- 

"This  is  the  first  year  the  College  has 
participated  in  the  program,"  said  Ms. 
Bramble. 

While  here,  Ms.  Bramble  has  been  co- 


teaching  in  three  courses:  Beverage  Man- 
agement and  catering,  Supervision,  Work 


Simplification  and  Incentives,  and  Hos- 
pitality Management  and  Theory 

"I'm  really  impressed  by  the  level  of 
technical  knowledge  of  the  students  in  the 
Food  and  Hospitality  Management  pro- 
gram." she  said.  "I  hope  this  kind  of  edu- 
cation continues  on  the  'community  col- 
lege' level."  she  added, 

Ms,  Bramble  was  introduced  to  the 
Board  of  Trustees  at  a  meeting  last  Mon- 
day by  Dr.  Walters  She  will  contmue  co- 
teaching  until  the  end  of  this  semester,  she 
said.  She  will  then  leave  to  continue  her 
master's  program  at  Cornell  University. 


Ms.  Margot  E.  Bramble,  center,  reviews  a  wine  list  with 
Linda  Crandall.  of  Elkland,  and  Rick  Burick,  of  Pittsburgh. 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE       ) 


e(?BULCB^  ^poTt^fg'"' 


Vol.  15,  No.  15 


...See  Page  3 


Ski-lf((inal  sleclvMirk  impressed  rhost  ndirnini;  Ki  lh< 
pus  after  (he  holjda>  break  as  (he  Colleue's  ei)ns(ri 
program  con(inued.     Here,  the  new  Learning  Resi 


Itiiilding  is  rising  from  (he  fro/en  ear(h  he(ween  Bardo 
Ci.\m  and  (he  Uni(  5  Adminis(ra(i<in  Building.  [Pltoio  In- 
Mollic  S.  Zelewkzl 


Students  begin 
evening  meals 
next  Monday 

Two  meals  will  be  served  by  the  food 
and  hospitality  students  next  week  as 
the  evening  practical  experience  in 
food  preparation  and  service  is  resum- 
ed, according  to  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon, 
associate  professor. 

The  meals  will  be  served  next  Mon- 
day, Jan.  21,  and  next  Wednesday, 
Jan.  23. 

The  menu  for  the  meals  will  be 
Potage  International  (creamy  potato- 
cheese  soup).  Crepe  de  Poulet  (pan- 
cakes filled  with  chicken  and  then  bak- 
ed in  a  cheese  sauce),  Cranberry 
Sorbet,  Broccoli  wilh  lemon  butter. 
Sunburst  Fruit  Salad,  Honey-Celery 
Seed  Dressing,  Chocolale  Mocha 
Eclairs,  coffee,  lea,  or  iced  tea. 

The  price  of  the  meals  will  be  S2.25. 
Dessert  will  be  a  la  carte. 

Dinner  will  be  served  from  5:30  p.m. 
to  6:30  p.m.  both  nights.  Service  is 
cafeteria  style. 

SPOTLIGHT  begins 
semester  publication 

With  this  issuc^The  SPOTLIGHT 
begins  publication  For  the  spring  1980 
semester. 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  and 
istributed  every  Monday  morning  dur- 
ing regular  academic  semesters. 


Student  Government  Assn. 
to  meet  tomorrow  at  4  p.m. 


All  students  are  invited  to  attend  the 
first  Student  Government  Association 
meeting  of  the  semester,  according  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  SGA  ad- 
visor. 

The  meeting  will  be  held  at  4  p.m., 
tomorrow,  in  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center.  Major  item  of 
discussion  will  be  the  Spring  Event 
agenda. 

Commenting  on  other  matters,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said  that  if  any  students  did 
not  receive  their  student  identification 
cards,  they  should  leave  their  name. 
Social  Security  number  and  curriculum 
at  the  Communication  Center  in  the 
front  lobby  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

All  club  budgets,  she  also  noted,  for 

Budget  drafts  wanted 
by  next  Monday 

The  Funds  Committee  for  the  Stu- 
dent Activities  Budget  for  the 
1980-1981  year  is  asking  that  activity 
budget  drafts  and  calendars  of  events 
be  submitted  no  later  than  3  p.m.,  next 
Monday,  Jan.  21,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  student  activities 
assistant. 

Movies  begin  next  week 

The  Cinema  Club  will  resume  its 
regular  Monday  might  novies  next 
Monday,  Jan.  21,  with  "The  Pack". 


the  1980-81  academic  year  are  due  by 
Monday,  Jan.  21 .  She  said  the  budgets 
are  to  be  given  to  her. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  said  she  is  asking 
that  clubs  be  "realistic"  in  deciding 
budgets. 

IM  roster 
deadlines  set 

Deadlines  have  been  set  for  signing 
rosters  for  intramural  volleyball  and 
bowling  teams,  according  to  Thomas 
G.  Gray,  assistant  professor  of 
physical  education. 

Gray  said  students  interested  in  sign- 
ing up  for  either  sport  will  find  forms 
on  the  IM  bulletin  board  on  the  first 
lloor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

The  roster  deadline  for  volleyball  is 
noon,  Wednesday,  Jan.  23,  for  the 
vvomen's,  the  men's  and  the  coed 
teams. 

The  volleyball  season  will  begin 
Monday,  Jan.  28,  Gray  said.  The 
women's  reams  are  scheduled  for  6:30 
p.m.  and  the  coed  teams  are  scheduled 
for  7:30  p.m. 

The  men's  teams  will  open  their 
season  on  Tuesday,  Jan.  29,  with  6:30, 
7:30,  and  possibly  8:30  p.m.  games. 
Gray  said. 

The  roster  deadline  for  intramural 
bowling  is  noon,  Wednesday,  Jan.  30, 
Gray  said. 


Bookstore  hours  longer 
for  first  three  weeks 

The  College  Bookstore  will  be 
open  from  6  to  9  p.m.  during  the 
first  three  weeks  of  this  semester, 
according  to  Robert  W.  Edier, 
bookstore  manager. 

Edler  said  regular  hours  will  be 
from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  Monday 
through  Friday  after  the  first 
three  weeks  of  the  semester. 

He  added  that  students  should 
check  with  English  professors 
before  buying  any  English  course 
textbooks. 

College  now 
has  new  van 
for  club  use 

A  van  for  student  use  has  been  pur- 
chased by  the  College,  according  to 
Frank  J.  Bowes,  director  of  student  ac- 
tivities and  placemeni. 

The  van  is  available  to  any  club  or 
student  organization  upon  request,  he 
said. 

One  tnnkfu!  of  gas  for  the  van  will 
be  provided  by  (he  College;  the  rest  of 
any  gas  needed  or  used  must  be  paid 
for  by  the  group  using  the  van,  he  said. 

The  van,  which  is  being  rented  for 
$200  a  month,  wlil  accomodate  up  to 
15  persons. 

The  van  is  air  conditioned  and 
carpeted.  It  is  parked  at  the 
maintenance  department. 

For  those  who  arrange  use  of  the 
van,  keys  may  be  picked  up  in  the 
Placement  Office  in  Klump  Academic 
Center.  The  keys  are  to  be  returned 
there. 

Anyone  who  holds  a  valid 
operator's  license  may  drive  the  van. 
the  director  said. 

Those  who  use  the  van  should  make 
sure  lo  include  a  record  of  mileage  to 
and  from  the  destination  upon  return- 
ing to  the  campus.  Bowes  said. 

Dental  clinic 
to  be  reopened 
this  Wednesday 

Starting  this  Wednesday,  the  dental 
hygiene  clinic  will  resume  its  program 
of  cleaning  teeth. 

The  fee  is  $3  for  students,  faculty, 
and  anyone  else  interested  in  the  ser- 
vice. 

Dental  hygiene  students  clean  teeth, 
lake  x-rays,  and  take  blood  pressure  as 
well  as  take  readings  of  all  viial  signs  as 
part  of  their  required  training,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Sandra  S.  Luks.  dental 
hygiene  program  coordinator. 

Those  interested  may  lelephone  the 
dental  hygiene  section  secretary.  Mrs. 
Mary  Facey,  to  set  up  an  appointment. 


A  flurry  of  knees,  elbows, 
and  feet:  That's  boxing! 

By  Larry  Steele 

Of  lhtSPOTl,l<,HTSI.ft 

According  10  Ronnachai  Vorasiangsuk,  Thai  boxing  i?  a  very  popular 
sport  in  Thailand.  Vorasiangsuk  -  generally  called  "Ronnachai" 
around  campus  --  is  a  firsi-ycar  advertising  art  student  from  Bangkok. 
Thailand. 

Thai  boxing  is  done  both  as  a  sport  and  for  protection.  Techniques  on 
how  to  box  arc  taught,  but  can  also  be  picked  up  from  television  and 
street  experience. 

In  professional  Thai  boxing,  five  three-minute  rounds  are  fought.  A 
ring  similar  to  a  regular  boxing  ring  is  used.  Before  the  fight,  each  par- 
ticipant does  a  mental  dance,  meditating  about  his  teacher  and  his 
teachings. 

When  the  fight  begins,  the  boxers  can  attack  with  a  flurry  of  knees, 
elbows,  and  feet.  The  boxers  also  wear  gloves  on  their  hands.  The  main 
areas  of  attack  are  the  thighs,  the  chin,  and  the  stomach  and  rib  area 


Photos  by 

Ronnachai 

Vorasiangsuk 


Exchange  students 
'get  into  the  act' 


"The  Ihcoter  Company  is  currently 
working  with  international  exchange 
students  who  are  living  in  the  Lycom- 
ing County  area."  according  to  Mrs. 
Lea  Frymirc,  director  of  theater  ac- 
tivities on  campus. 

The  exchange  students  will  perform 
for  an  annual  international 
smorgasbord  in  the  Church  of  the  An- 
nunciation  Parish  Center.  720  W. 
Fourth  St. 

Entertainment  will  feature  Lycom- 
ing County  international  students 
presenting  "Coming  Home". 

Reservations  for  parties  of  six  or 
eight  may  be  made  until  Thursday. 
Jan.  31.  Mrs.  Frymire  said. 

The  event  is  open  to  the  public  with 
a  $10  donation  for  adults  and  a  $7.50 
donation  for  children,  she  said. 

Theater  Company  members 
assisting  the  students  are  Marykay  K. 
Danneker,  Rosalind  Y.  Key,  Joyce  M. 
Hudson,  Jeffrey  L.  Kathcrman,  Marty 
Kuni/.  Viola  L.  Hursh,  Daniel  Sleil, 
Christina  N.  Weibley,  Amy  L.  Bohart, 
Robin  Kreiner,  Donna  G.  Lofton, 
Michelle  A.  Engic,  and  Lawrence  A. 
Fink. 

Dr.  Edmond  A.  Watters  3rd,  dean 
of    postsecondary    instructional    ser- 


vices; Mrs.  Frymire.  and  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Chris  Espenshade  currently  are  coor- 
dinating the  recreation  and  entertain- 
ment for  the  Lycoming  exchange 
students. 

Rehearsals  for  the  company's  up- 
coming presentation  in  March  will  be 
iindcrwas     soon,    according    In    Mrs 


10  named  to  committee 

Ten  members  of  the  faculty  and  ad- 
ministration have  been  appointed  to 
the  Employment.  Promotion,  and 
Tenure  Committee,  according  to  an 
announcement  from  Dr.  William  H. 
Feddersen.  president  of  the  College. 

Committee  members  are  Frank  L. 
Porter,  chairperson,  Margaret  E. 
Emery,  David  M.  Heiney,  Lyman  I. 
Milrov,  Rodman  H.  Perry,  Donald  O. 


■iounj:.    Willi.- 
Rich.iul  Wciln 


P     Yc 


and 


Managing  Editor 


Dam 


SPOTLIGHT 


First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  academic 
year   except  lof  college  vacations   by  loumahs 

OMice: 

Room  7, 

Klump  Academic  Center 

Telephone: 

(717)  326-3761 

Extension  221 


Member  ol  The  Columbta  Scholastic  Press  Association 
and  ol  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Association 


Features  and 
Editorial  Page  Editor 

John  F    Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Chief  Photographer 

Timothy  A    Tolh 

Advertising  Representat 

and  Senior  Staff  Report 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexer 

iviichael  T    Lekiles 


Trustees  okay 
phone  system 
purchase 

The  Board  of  Trustees,  meeting  Jan. 
7.  approved  the  admissions  policies  for 
degree  and  ceriificale  programs. 

The  memorandum  ot  understanding 
between  the  College  and  the 
Wilhamsport  Area  Community  Col- 
lege Education  Assn.  (WACCEA) 
regarding  grant/contract  positions  was 
accepted. 

The  purchase  of  an  electronic 
telephone  system  through  Communica- 
tions Engineering  Corporation  of 
Wilkes-Barre  was  approved. 

Also  approved  was  the  donation  of  a 
sculpture  by  the  Alumni  Association. 

An  increase  in  the  minimum  hourly 
wage  from  $2.90  to  $3. 10  per  hour  was 
approved.  Curriculum  revisions  for 
secretarial  and  clerical  studies  and  the 
computer  operator  and  computer 
science  technology  programs  were  also 
approved. 

Minor  changes  in  the  Phase  I 
building  program  were  approved.  Two 
new  campus  clubs  were  given  trustees 
approval:  The  WACC  Rifle  and  Pistol 
Club  and  the  Ag-Business  Club. 

Orientation 
held  last  week 

An  orientation  day  lor  students 
newly  entering  the  College  for  the  spr- 
ing semester  was  held  last  Wednesday, 
Jan.  9. 

Lawrence  W.  Emery,  director  of 
counseling    and    career    development. 

The  program  included  opening 
remarks  by  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen. 
president;  Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean 
for  student  and  career  development, 
and  Dr.  Edmund  A.  Watters,  dean  of 
postsecondary  instructional  services. 

Kim  Dincher,  Student  Government 
Association  president,  gave  a  welcom- 
ing talk. 

After  the  welcome,  students  enrolled 
in  developmental  studies  courses,  met 
with  Dr.  Heiney.  He  explained  expec- 
tations and  obligations  involved  in  the 
courses. 

Also  included  in  the  orientation  pro- 
gram were  meetings  with  faculty  ad- 
visors, tours,  and  finalization  of  class 
schedules  for  the  semester. 

Members  of  the  Student  Govern- 
ment Association  were  on  campus  and 
staffed  information  tables  about  ac- 
tivities, organizations,  and  other  mai- 
lers. The  SGA  also  provided  morning 
break  retreshments. 

Reporters 

Jacqueline  J    Cardene 

Lana  Apker 

Robert  J    Allen 

Paul  M    Kremskt 

John  L    Rickerl 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Leslie  M    Rogers 

Trudy  M    Shively 

Cindy  M    Snook 

Larry  G  Steele 

Chnslina  N    Weibley 

Robert  E    Thomas 

Contributing  Writer 

Kim  A   Steele 


Production  Team  Tttis  Issue: 

Robert  A  Allen.  Lana  M  Apker  Mollie  S  Zelewicz  John  F 
Zelewicz  Kim  A  Steele  Timothy  A  Toth,  and  Cmdy  M 
Snook 


SPOTLIGHTing 


nicHr  Pap- 3 


Page  4  SPOTLIGHT  Monday,  Jan    14.  I«80 


Were  the  70s 
years  of 
disillusion, 
detachment, 
disenchantment? 


uring  the  70s,  being  gay  was 
O.K.,  divorce  was  without  remorse,  the 
techniques  of  sex  began  to  perplex,  debates 
over  Arabian  oil  began  to  boil,  the  race  in 
space  was  erased,  and  marriage  was  debas- 
ed. 

There  was  an  attempted  elimination  of 
women's  discrimination,  and  U.S.  coopera- 
tion with  the  Chinese  nation.  A  test  tube 
baby  became  more  than  a  maybe,  and  Ralph 
Nader  was  exchanged  for  Darth  Vader. 

War  became  a  bore,  films  went  hard  core, 
the  Pope  came  to  tour,  and  finding  work  was 
a  chore.  The  747  was  the  biggest  jet,  but  the 
SST  was  the  fastest  yet. 

The  truckers  had  a  nationwide  strike  and 
took  to  blabbing  on  a  C.B.  mike,  TMI  nuke 
gave  the  country  a  spook,  and  the  success  of 
"Roots"  was  ABC's  lucky  fluke. 

Patty  Hearst  and  the  SLA  were  all  securely 
locked  away,  the  dollar  began  to  decay,  and 
the  USA  celebrated  its  200th  birthday. 


Monday.  Ian    14.  1980  SPOTLIGHT 


Mass  killings  didn't  seem  so  chilling,  but 
mass    suicide    left    Americans    horrified. 
Chrysler  cried  for  a  government  loan,  DC-IOs 
weren't  to  be  flown,  and  every  cheap  scandal 
was  blown. 

The  U.S.  economy  was  in  a  serious  slump, 
while  gold  prices  tool(  a  tremendous  jump. 
Small  car  sales  all  went  Jap,  and  the  Ford 
Pinto  was  a  death-trap. 

Son  of  Sam  -  murderer  on  lovers'  lane  - 
got  off  easy  after  pleading  insane,  and 
government  trust  went  bust  while  Con- 
gressmen found  time  for  call-girl  lust. 

America  lost  its  cowboy  hero,  and  tried  to 
hold  its  population  growth  to  zero.  Gas  lines 
started  in  the  West  then  spread  to  the  rest, 
and  world  starvation  rated  as  a  critical  situa- 
tion. 

And  last,  but  not  least,  there  was  the  Ira- 
nian confrontation  in  which  the  U.S. 
hesitated  at  retaliation. 


I  he    70s    were    years    filled    with    disillusion...    and 
American  morale  was  dangerously  low. 

Remnants  of  the  tumultuous  60s  lingered  through  the  early  70s. 
Demonstrations  opposing  the  Vietnam  War  were  still  prevalent,  but 
came  to  an  abrupt  halt  after  the  Kent  State  tragedy. 

On  May  8, 1970, 13  student  demonstrators  were  shot  -four  of  them 
were  killed  -  by  fire  from  National  Guardsmen  called  in  to  quell  the 
violent  protest  at  Kent  State. 

As  a  result,  Americans  found  themselves  in  two  different  camps. 
One  favored  the  protest,  the  other  defended  the  Guardsmen's  ac- 
tions to  preserve  order. 

Not  surprisingly,  the  fashionability  of  demonstrations  faded, 
students  as  well  as  militants  concluded  that  violent  protests  weren't 
worth  a  bloodbath. 

Fortunately,  American  involvement  in  the  war  ended  in  1972  and 
the  issue  was  laid  to  rest. 

That  year  marked  the  end  of  the  war,  but  only  the  beginning  of  a 
conspiracy  which  rocked  America's  faith  in  government  -Watergate. 

The  break-in  at  Democratic  headquarters  and  the  wiretaps  were 
conducted  by  Republicans  under  Nixon's  administration.  The  event 
lead  to  Nixon's  resignation  in  1974  -  the  only  forced  presidential 
resignation  in  U.S.  history. 

(Please  turn  to  next  page) 


People  were  'leery 
of  being  committed 
to  issues...' 


SPOTLIGHT 


Were  the  70s  years  of...? 


U 


(Continued  I'om  preceding  page) 
'  nlike  the  60s,  when  the  country  was  under  John  F. 
Kennedy's  charismatic  spell.  Americans  lost  faithin  their  leadership 
during  the  70s. 

Kennedy  was  the  symbol  of  America  -  young,  energetic  and  op- 
timistic -  generating  a  strong  sense  of  nationalism.  However,  after 
his  assassination  in  '63.  the  U.S.  began  to  study  Itself,  realizing  its 
many  internal  problems. 

According  to  Or,  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor  of  government  and 
history,  there  was  an  "Increased  focus  on  problems  Internally." 

Domestic  tensions,  such  as  civil  rights  issues,  urban  social  pro- 
blems, plus  the  international  problems  like  the  war,  led  to  the  unrest 
of  the  later  60s  and  early  70s,  Or.  Doyle  said. 

Consequently,  people  living  during  these  years  were  committing 
themselves  to  an  issue,  either  pro  or  anti,  actively  supporting  their 
views. 

During  the  Johnson  years,  summarized  as  the  most  socially 
unrestive,  and  the  first  years  of  Nixon's  term,  the  statement,  "in- 
dividuals have  an  ethical  responsibility  to  violate  the  law  when  fun- 
damental values  are  at  issue"  seemed  to  be  the  basis  for  unrest,  Dr. 
Doyle  explained. 


|he  mld-70s  were  a  "mellowing  ouf'period,  for 
Americans  seemed  tired  of  revolting.  Attention  was  turned  toward 
the  energy  crisis  and  inflation.  Americans  became  more  concerned 
about  getting  through  situations  rather  than  revolting  against  them. 

Dr.  Doyle  characterized  the  60s  as  a  time  when  some  people  were 
very  optimistic  -  thinking  a  lot  more  was  going  to  be  accomplished 
than  actually  was. 

Those  favoring  change,  he  said,  thought  "a  very  fundamental 
change  of  values  was  going  to  take  place". 

But  the  changes  only  partially  materialized.  Civil  rights  were 
guaranteed  to  those  formerly  oppressed,  but  the  discrimination  still 
exists.  Women  made  headway  in  their  liberation  movement,  but  the 
ERA  still  has  not  been  ratified.  The  war  ended,  but  problems  with  it 
still  remain. 

The  70s  were  a  decade  of  disenchantment.  People  were  "leery  of 
being  committed  to  issues"  Dr.  Doyle  said. 

There  seemed  to  be  a  feeling  of  "detachment"  during  the  70s,  he 
added,  "for  people  had  nothing  to  identify  with." 


Fnfortunately,  it  seems  that  the  children  reflect  that 
feeling  also. 

Because  of  changes  In  the  family  and  in  society  itself,  educators 
say  the  number  of  "socially  and  emotionally"  disturbed  children  is 
growing  larger,  according  to  Roger  N.  Campbell,  a  psychologist  for 
the  Wllliamsport  Area  School  District. 

Campbell  said  that  socially  disturbed  children  have  "less  social 
skills  to  control  themselves  with  other  people".   But,  through  early 


diagnosis,  teachers  can  help  alleviate  the  problem,  he  said. 

He  emphasized  that  schools  are  trying  to  meet  the  individual 
needs  of  children  in  this  "age  of  specialization",  but  the  schools 
can  only  partially  help  -  there  must  be  an  "interaction  between 
teachers  and  parents"  to  accomplish  anything. 

With  the  family  unit  becoming  smaller,  Campebll  said,  children 
are  more  "egotistical",  lacking  the  sharing  that  goes  on  within  a  big 
family. 


In  an  elderly  person's  view,  this  trend  of  alienation 
and  detachment  has  grown  over  the  past  20  years. 

Mrs.  Mary  L.  Phleger,  89,  believes  that  society's  problems  are  due 
to  "distrust". 

"I  think  there's  more  distrust  today,  in  the  government.  In  society, 
and  in  management  than  there  ever  was  before,"  she  said. 

"People  don't  have  any  respect  for  each  other.  There  doesn't 
seem  to  be  any  concern  for  the  fellow  man  anymore,"  she  com- 
mented. 

"Years  ago.  people  trusted  each  other  and  you  could  do  things 
and  not  be  afraid,"  she  added. 

Mrs.  Phleger  said  that  some  of  society's  problems  today  are  caus- 
ed by  machines  -  in  that  machines  deny  a  person  some  of  his  in- 
dividuality. 

"Machines,"  she  said,  "don't  do  the  good  work  that  people  do." 
Such  were  the  70s.    Now  we're  ready  for  the  80s...  Or  are  we? 


President  reports  procedure 
in  event  college  must  be  closed 
due  to  snow  or  other  emergency 

Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen.  presideni,  has  disiribuied  copies  of  the  College 
"Snow  and  Emergency  Closing  Procedure".  The  SPOTLIGHT  reprints  ex- 
cerpts from  the  memorandum,  should  readers  wish  to  clip  and  keep  it 
available  at  home. 
Employe.     Sitideni     Noli/kaiion 

While  classes  are  in  session:  All  ad- 
ministrative offices  will  be  called 
following  the  organizational  structure. 
Deans  will  notify  their  offices  and  of- 
fices reporting  to  them;  division  direc- 
tors will  notify  faculty,  and  faculty  will 
notify  students. 

When  classes  are  nol  in  session:  A 
public  announcement  will  be  made  on 
radio  stations:  WWPA,  WRAK, 
WILQ,  and  WLYC,  all  of 
Williamsport;  WMPT,  South 
Williamsport;  WBPZ,  Lock  Haven; 
WMLP,  Milton;  WKOK,  Sunbury; 
WNBT,  Wellsboro,  and  WTTC, 
Towanda. 

When  an  emergency  arises  and  it  re- 
quires that  the  College  be  closed  for  an 
extended  period  of  time  and  students 
are  not  on  campus,  closing  or  opening 
announcements  will  be  made  on  the 
following  radio  and  television  stations 
throughout  the  state  in  addition  to  the 
stations  named  above:  WBRE  radio 
and  tv,  Wilkes-Barre;  KYW,  radio  and 
IV,  Philadelphia;  WHP,  radio  and  tv, 
Harrisburg;  KDKA,  radio  and  tv,  Pitt- 
sburgh; WJET,  Erie,  and  WFBG.  Al- 
toona. 

Decision  normally  is  made  by  6:30 
a.m..  according  lo  the  memorandum 
outlining  the  procedure. 

Cummunily  and  Continuing  t^duca- 
(ion  classes:  For  evening  classes,  a 
decision  is  made  by  the  College  presi- 
dent in  consultation  with  the  dean  for 
community  and  continuing  education. 
In  inclement  weather,  the  decision  to 
cancel  evening  classes  is  normally  made 
by  3  p.m. 

Off-campus  classes:  Decision  is 
made  by  the  dean  for  community  and 
continuing  education  in  consultation 
with  the  director  for  off-campus  pro- 
grams. 


Monday,  Jan.  14,  1980 


SPOTLIGHT 


Interviewing  to  begin 
for  Act  101  director 

Interviewing  will  begin  in  two  weeks 
for  the  position  of  director  of 
developmental  studies  and  Act  101. 

According  to  a  personnel  office  an- 
nouncement, the  most  important 
responsibility  the  job  will  include  is  to 
be  the  educational  leader  of  the  pro- 
gram and  creating  a  learning  environ- 
ment for  the  students  involved. 

Also  included  among  the  duties  of 
the  position  will  be  the  hiring, 
evaluating  and  supervising  of  the  staff 
and  faculty. 

Coordinating  the  developmental 
class  schedule  and  selecting  educa- 
tional materials  and  equipment  are  also 
listed  among  the  responsibilities. 


Oil,  watercolor 
paintings  now 
being  displayed 

An  exhibit  of  oil  and  watercolor 
paintings  by  Peter  Gstalder.  local  ar- 
tist, will  be  open  through  Saturday. 
Jan.  26.  during  regular  hours  at  the 
James  V.  Brown  Library  in  downtown 
Williamsport. 

The  exhibit  is  in  the  Community 
Room  Art  Gallery  at  the  library. 

Gstalder,  who  has  received  a 
number  of  prizes  in  local  and  regional 
shows,  has  a  total  of  48  one-man  shows 
to  his  credit  in  Pennsylvania  and  New 
England.  He  also  is  represented  in 
many  permanent  collections  of  various 
institutions. 

The  artist,  a  graduate  of  Lycoming 
College  with  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree  in  art  education,  studied  four 
nationally  known  artists  for  a  period  of 
two  years  in  Gloucester,  Mass. 

He  taught  art  in  the  public  school 
system  for  three  years  and  conducted 
his  own  art  classes  for  15  years.  He 
also  has  been  manager  and  owner  of 
two  art  galleries  in  Williamsport. 

Gstalder  was  involved  in  the  forma- 
lion  of  the  Bald  Eagle  An  League  as  a 
charier  member  and  has  been  its  pro- 
gram chairman  and  vice  president.  He 
also  is  an  organi/er  and  co-chairman  of 
the  Regional  An  Shows  sponsored 
every  other  year  by  the  Bald  Eagle  Art 
League. 

Johnston  buys 
'leftover'  coal 

A  bid  of  $15  per  ton  has  been  ac- 
cepted by  the  College  for  30  tons  of 
coal  no  longer  needed  to  fuel  college 
boilers. 

Two  bids  were  received  on  Jan.  9, 
according  to  James  C.  McMahon,  ad- 
ministrative assistant  to  the  dean  for 
administrative  services. 

Forrest  Johnston,  a  machine  shop 
instructor  at  the  College,  was  the  high 
bidder,  McMahon  said. 

Johnson  will  have  to  remove  the 
coal  at  his  own  expense  and  have  it 
weighed  at  a  licensed  weigh  station  so 
the  exact  amount  due  the  College  may 
be  determined,  McMahon  added. 

Mrs.  Sally  Cutter  tossed  a  pancake  5.010 
times  in  65  minutes  at  the  Island  Club, 
Limassol,  Cyprus  on  Feb,  26, 1974 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wascher 
Chiropractoi 


1905  Mill  Lane 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (7171  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


9 

S^^k^^^^B 

■■W''9'^l 

(    ijl^^^^^l 

fB-\* 

•  T 

iv^^^l 

wEi 

!C 

^mB 

Listening  during  "Your  Own  Bag"  session  are  William  Bradshaw,  director  of 
cooperative  education,  at  left,  and  Ur.  Richard  M.  Sweeney,  director,  Division 
of  Communications.  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences,  center.  Speaker  was  Ed- 
ward Fenstermacher.  who  described  his  "self-subsistence"  way  of  life. 

Former  editor  describes 
life  of  self-subsistence 


Edward  Fenstermacher,  ex -editor  of 
the  Berwick  Enterprise,  spoke  during 
the  third  session  of  the  "Your  Own 
Bag"  series  on  Friday,  Dec.  7 

Fenstermacher.  who  retired  six  years 
ago,  talked  about  his  home  in  Berwick. 
He  also  talked  about  the  raising  of 
goats  and  rabbits  as  well  as  organic 
gardening. 

Fenstermacher's  home  --  known  as  a 
"chalet"  —  is  a  type  that  originated  in 
Switzerland.  The  house  is  built  into 
the  side  of  a  bank  with  two  stories  out 
front  and  one  story  in  back.. 

Fenstermacher  said  he  lives  a  "self- 
subsistence"  way  of  life.  He  raises  his 
goats  and  rabbits  in  a  sn\all  barn  which 
is  connected  with  his  "cltalci".  And. 
with  his  barn  well  stocked  with  food 
for  his  animals  and  his  cellar  stocked 
with  food  from  his  garden,  he  said  he 
"could  face  the  winters  with  a  feeling 
of  security." 

He  explained  his  chalet  is  heated  by 
both  a  woodburning  stove  and  bv  elec- 


ENERGY. 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 


tricity.  He  said  his  house  is  comprised 
of  many  rooms,  including  a  kitchen, 
bedroom,  living  room,  and  bath. 

The  barn,  he  said,  is  a  two  level 
building.  The  goats  are  kept  on  the 
lower  level  and  the  rabbits  on  the  up- 
per. He  said  he  uses  both  the  goats' 
milk  and  the  rabbit  meat  for  food,  ad- 
ding the  explanation  that  the  goats' 
milk  helps  in  the  cure  of  ulcers  and  the 
rabbit  meat  is  the  best  compared  to  any 
other. 

Fenstermacher  said  people  know 
very  little  about  dairy  goats  and  many 
still  believe  the  goats  will  eat  anything. 
He  said  that,  actually,  goats  are  ex- 
tremely cautious  about  what  they  eat. 
He  also  noted  there  are  five  major 
breeds  of  goats:  Nubians.  Alpines, 
Toggenburgs,  Saanens.  and  LaMan- 
chas. 

Fenstermacher  also  talked  about 
organic  gardening.  He  said  he  uses  no 
chemical  fertilizers  or  poisonous  sprays 
or  powders.  The  compost  for  his 
garden  includes  leaves,  lime,  some  soil, 
grass  clippings,  and  table  scraps.  This, 
he  said,  turns  into  rich  black  humus. 

Fenstermacher  observed;  "...all 
people  should  have  some  type  of 
domestic  animals  -  like  goats  and  rab- 
bits" and  that  self-subsistence  living  is 
what  accounts  for  his  good  health. 

-Conlnhuied  h\  Sieve  Ber^usan 


Protect 

Your  Valuables 

When  You're  Away 

Thievery  of  valuables  -  such  as  stereos, 
CB's,  bicycles,  etc.  -  is  a  problem  for  col- 
lege students  today. 

Safeguard  your  property  by  engraving 
your  Social  Security  number  on  these 
Items 

An  engraving  pen  is  available  on  an 
overnight  basis  from 

Mr.  Charles  J.  Haas, 

Housing  Coordinator, 

Room  104, 

Klump  Academic  Center 


Clllo's 
Vi/ollege   V^orner 

CILLO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE: 

Phone  3221321. 

Call  ahead  for  take-out  orders. 

We  will  have  order  ready  lor  you  lo  pick  up. 

Hours:  7  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Restautant/Snacii  Bat 

Open  for  Breakfast: 

7  a.m. 

Breakfast  Sensed  til 
la-.AOa.m. 


Monday.  Jan  r4.  1980 


Smile:  Avoid  Wrinkles 

"Prunella,"  he 
whispered,  "  what's 
that  red-looking  splotch 
on  your  elbow?" 

"It's  only  a  freckle, 
you  silly  boy." 

"That's  funny,"  he 
replied.  ' 7  didn  't  know 
freckles  could  move. " 


Bulletin  Board 

MEETING 

Sludeni  Government  Associalion.  4  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  132, 
Klump  Academit  Center. 

SPORTS 
Men's  basketball  vs.  Community  College  of  Philadelphia,  away,  7:30 
p.m.,  Friday. 

Women's  basketball  vs.  Community  College  of  Philadelphia,  away.  5 
p.m.,  Friday. 

Wrestling  vs.  Keystone  Junior  College,  away,  8  p.m.,  Friday. 
Men's  basketball  vs.  Lock  Haven  State  College  Junior  Varsity,  away, 
6:15  p.m.,  Saturday. 

Wrestling  vs.  Penn  Slate  University  Ogontz  Campus,  home,  2  p.m., 
Saturday. 

MIXER 
Miter  sponsored  by  Sludeni  GovernmenI  Associalion  and  open  lo  all 
sludenls,  8  In  12  p.m.,  Wednesday,  in  the  Lair,  free. 


Got  the  answer? 

Winter  though  it  is,  what  is 
the  greatest  distance  (in  miles) 
that  you  can  see  on  a  clear  day? 


uns  aq) 

pUB    qjJES   31)1    U33A\I3q   3DUBJSIP 

aqi  '3Sjno3  jo  'si  qaiij/w  -  sajiui 

UOJllllU  £6  1SE3I  IB  33S  UBO  nO;^ 

HHMSNV 


Officer  says  registration 
needed,  gives  warning 


All  cars  usmp  campus  parking  lots 
must  be  registered,  according  to 
Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  chief  of  security. 

Smeak  also  said  Ihal  cars  registered 
in  September  need  nol  be  re-registered 
for  the  spring  semester. 

"We  strongly  urge  students  to  use 
the  parking  lots  provided  by  the  Col- 
lege -  in  particular  the  lot  on  Park 
Street  al  First  Street  which  is  never 
comfilled,"  Smeak  added. 

Smeak  went  on  lo  say  that  the  din 
lot  south  of  Unit  30.  the  aulo  shop, 
and  Unit  29  (Cromar  Building)  is  nol 
being  used  lo  the  fullest. 

A  number  of  neighbors  have  made 
complaints  lo  the  security  office  regar- 
ding students  parking  on  vacant  lois 
wiihoul  permission,  he  said. 

These  nearby  lots  are  privately  own- 
ed. All  owners  contacting  the  security 
office  have  been  made  aware  of  Sec- 
tion 3353,  subsections  (b)  and  (c)  of  the 
Pennsylvania  Vehicle  Code,  he  said. 
This  section  deals  with,  he  added, 
unattended  vehicles  left  on  private  pro- 
perly. 

According  to  Smeak,  the  owner  or 
owner's  agent  may  remove  or  have 
rcmin'rti  a  \chiclc  p:ut  t-rl  nn  the  prn 


periy.  (There  is  no  wailing  time  re- 
quired nor  is  il  required  to  notify  the 
owner  of  the  vehicle.)  The  owner  of 
Ihe  vehicle  is  nol  only  subject  lo  a  fine 
of  $15  and  costs,  bul  also  liable  for 
lowing  and/or  storage  or  the  vehicle 
before  the  vehicle's  return,  he  said. 

Smeak  also  said  il  would  be  in  Ihe 
best  interest  of  all  students  lo  "respect 
Ihe  properly  of  all  persons". 


"Go    ah«ad.    Good    Buddy. 
You're  talking  to  Snow  White." 


Intaginalion  is  ilie   bdsis   tor   these  shop  projects  constructed  by 
plumbing  sludenls  lo  •celebrate"  Christmas.   (Phoios  by  Tim  Toih) 


Interclub  Council  awards 
holiday  decoration  prizes 

By  Trudy  Shively 

or  fhc  spoil  I<;H1  Mall 

Interclub  Council  held  a  "free  lunch"  in  the  cafeteria  on  Dec.  13,  ac- 
cording lo  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolti,  Interclub  Council  advisor. 

After  the  lunch,  judging  of  Ihe  College  Christmas  decorations  was 
done.    Judging  was  done  by  Mrs.  Fremiolti,  Richard  J.  Weilminsler, 
who  is  advisor  lo  Ihe  Horiicullure  Technicians  Association  Club,  and 
Richard  W.  Rankinen,  advisor.  Forest  Technicians  Associalion  Club. 
"This  is  the  second  year  Ihe  Counci 


has  judged  ihis  event,"  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli,  who  is  also  student  activities 
assistant. 

The  prizes,  sponsored  and  awarded 
by  Interclub  Council  (ICC),  included 
boxes  of  candy,  five-dollar  checks,  and 
one  check  for  $15,  she  said. 

The  $15  check  weni  lo  the  plumbing 
students  for  the  "most  outstanding 
display,"  she  said.  The  display  was  a 
"Christmas  tree"  made  of  plumbing 
fillings. 

Winners  of  Ihe  $5  awards  were 
SNOW,  for  most  unique;  Health 
Assistants  Club,  for  most  elaborate; 
sign  painting  students,  for  old- 
fashioned;  computer  science  students, 
for  biggest  joke;  Phi  Bela  Lambda,  for 


most  attractive:  denial  hygiene 
students,  for  merriest,  and  food  and 
hospitality  students,  for  "The 
Christmas  Spirit". 

Those  awarded  a  box  of  candy  in- 
cluded: 

-Learning  Resources,  for  most  un 
que;  Admissions  Office,  for  mosi 
elaborate:  Financial  Aid  and  Sluden 
Career  Development,  for  old 
fashioned;  business  faculty  (Paul  W 
Goldfeder's  desk),  for  biggest  joke. 

—Also,  Earth  Science,  for  most  al- 
Iraclive;  Duplicating  and  Mail  Ser- 
vices, for  Ihe  merriesl.  and  a  three-way 
lie  award  to  Career  Development  Of- 
fice, Personnel  Office  and  the  Security 
Office,  for  "The  Christmas  Spirit". 


Club's     Workshop: 
'great  experience' 


"It  was  a  great  experience  and  we 
think  everyone  enjoyed  themselves," 
said  Theresa  L.  Nash  and  Beverly  R. 
Matlack,  chairpersons  for  "Santa's 
Workshop"  in  Room  413,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

The  room  was  decorated  for 
Christmas  -  "tree  and  all"  —  accor- 
ding 10  the  students  who  are  members 
of  the  Health  Assistanl  Club. 

"Letters  to  Santa"  from  first  and 
second  grade  sludentsof  the  Trout  Run 
Lewis  Township  Elementary  School 
lined  the  doorway,  said  Ms.  Nash. 

Ms.  Nash,  who  dressed  as  Santa, 
talked  individually  with  children  from 
Tot  Watch  while  Ms.  Matlack,  as  Mrs. 
Santa,  entertained  the  others.  A  skit 
was  also  performed  for  these  children 
by  other  students  in  the  club  who  dress- 
ed as  reindeer  and  elves. 

Club  wins  prize 
Those  students  included  Rae  J. 
Greninger,  Karen  L.  Wolfe,  Deanna 
M.  Prasler,  Teresa  A.  Boob,  Sherry  L. 
Karsleller.  Karen  K.  Gordon,  Sherri  L. 
Patterson,  and  Judy  L.  Stugarl. 

Also,  Becky  S.  Doebler,  Deborah  A. 


Bodnar,  Karyn  D,  Foye,  Mary  E. 
Young,  Tina  M.  Green,  Dolores  A. 
Nagele,  Tammy  J.  Gehr,  and  Rod  L. 
Fink. 

"The  Health  Assistanl  Club  won  a 
five-dollar  check  for  'most  elaborate' 
presentation,"  said  Ms.  Nash,  "and 
another  five-dollar  check  for  second 
place  in  the  'most  outstanding' 
display." 

All  worked  hard 

The  prize  money  will  be  put  toward 
Health  Assistant  pins  for  the  class,  ac- 
cording to  the  students.  The  pins  will 
be  awarded  at  the  end  of  the  fourth 
semester. 

"We  all  worked  together  --  and  very 
hard,"  said  Ms.  Matlack.  The 
students  said  they  wanted  to  express  a 
"sincere  thank  you"  to  "all  those  who 
gave  moral  support  and  especially  to 
Mrs.  Shirley  'Munchy'  McQuay  and 
'Joggin'  '  Joan  Wallis,  instructors. 

Ronald  Lackey,  of  Chopticon  High 
School.  Morganza.  Md.,  lectured  for  50 
hours,  six  minutes  on  April  25-27.  1974,  He 
took  a  two-minute  break  every  two  hours. 


See  Page  4    ^v\^^ 

S>       the  70s 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE       ) 


ePBULCBCJU 

( Monday.  Jan.  21,  1980         Vol,  15.  No,  16  aPagn      ^ 


Enrollment 
for  spring 
mirrors  '79 

The  tentative  total  of  students 
enrolled  in  the  spring  term  of  the  Col- 
lege is  2.841.  according  to  Mrs, 
Kathryn  Marcello.  director  of  student 
records. 

That  was  the  figure  available  at  the 
Records  Office  as  of  Friday,  Jan,  II. 
Mrs,  Marcello  stressed  that  the  early 
figures  are  indefinite  and  subject  to 
change  once  the  information  is  return- 
ed from  off-campus  sites,  night  classes, 
late  registrants,  late-acceptance 
students,  and  students  who  might  be 
withdrawing. 

The  Jan.  1 1  total  is  broken  down  in- 
to 2,256  returning  degree  students  and 
585  new  students.  Of  the  new  students, 
291  are  non-degree,  leaving  294  new, 
degree-seeking  students, 

Mrs.  Marcello  said  the  figures  are 
similar  to  those  of  the  spring  semester 
of  1979., 

Weitz  leaves 


Cancer  Society  films 
Open  Health  Week 


Health  week  will  be  held  next  week 
at  the  College,  according  to  Mrs,  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  activities  assistant. 
The  event,  which  is  sponsored  by  the 
Student  Activities  Association,  will  be 
open  to  the  public  as  well  as  students. 

The  American  Cancer  Society  will 
show  two  films  next  Monday  to  begin 
Health  week.  The  time  of  the  showings 
will  be  determined  later  this  week,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said, 

Tuesday.  Jan,  29,  diabetes  screening 
tests  will  be  given  in  the  Lair  from  9 
a.m.  to  3  p.m.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said 
those  interested  should  have  eaten 
within  the  last  four  hours  prior  to 
testing,  but  should  wait  one  hour  after 
eating  before  the  test.  People  must 
follow  these  instructions  to  receive  true 
test  results.  Mrs,  Fremiotti  said. 

The  Department  of  Health  will  ad- 
minister blood  pressure  and  cholesterol 
tests  Wednesday.  Jan,  30,  Pre- 
registration  is  required  on  Jan,  28  and 

Shooting  begins 


for  Penn  State      for  senior  pictures 


Anna  E.  Weitz  has  terminated  her 
employment  as  career  development 
specialist  at  the  College,  according  to 
Lawrence  W,  Emery,  director,  student 
and  career  development. 

According  to  Emery,  Ms,  Weitz  left 
in  order  to  finish  her  graduate  work 
and  to  take  up  a  new  position  as  a 
research  assistant  to  Dr,  Edwin  L, 
Herr,  who  is  considered  an  expert  in 
the  field  of  career  development.  He  is 
at  The  Pennsylvania  State  University, 
Emery  also  stated  that  Martin  E, 
McCormick,  who  was  assistant  career 
development  specialist  last  year,  took 
over  Ms,  Weitz's  vacated  position.. 


Senior  pictures  for  May  graduates 
will  be  taken  next  week  at  various  loca- 
tions on  campus. 

Today,  the  photographer  is  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  in  the  student 
lounge  from  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 

Tomorrow,  the  pictures  will  be 
taken  at  the  Parkes  Automotive 
Building. 

On  Wednesday,  the  photographer 
will  be  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus. 

Times  for  both  days  are  9  a.m.  until 
4  p.m. 

There  is  a  $3  sitting  fee,  with  no  fur- 
ther obligation  for  purchase,  according 
to  Ms,  Kathryn  Marcello.  yearbook 
advisor. 


29  at  the  Communication  Center, 
Room  136  Klump  Academic  Center,  or 
by  calling  extension  269,  according  to 
Mrs,  Fremiotti, 

These  tests  are  important,  according 
to  Craig  B,  Zarzyczny,  public  health 
program  representative.  High  blood 
cholesterol  is  associated  with  the  for- 
mation of  fat  deposits  in  the  coronary 
artery  linings  which  causes  the  arteries 
to  be  narrowed,  Zarzyczny  noted. 

Fat  deposits  in  the  arteries  is  the 
beginning  step  of  cardiovascular 
disease,  high  blood  pressure,  heart  at- 
, tacks,  and  stokes,  Zarzyczny  added. 
He  also  warned  that  screening  tests  do 
not  replace  a  regular  examination  by  a 
physician. 

Thursday.  Jan.  31.  the  American 
Heart  Assocaition  will  present  two 
films  to  the  public.  The  time  will  be 
scheduled  later  this  week  also.  Mrs, 
Frcmiolli  said. 

In  addition.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  will  get 
information  from  the  local  hospitals 
on  serious  diseases  that  are  common. 
Venereal  disease  and  multiple  sclerosis 
will  be  two  of  the  main  diseases 
discussed.  Mr*;    Fremiotti  said, 

rvolleyball  I 
I  deadline  f 
I  tomorrow  i 

The  roster  deadline  for  volleyball  is 
noon,  Wednesday,  according  to 
Thomas  G,  Gray,  assistant  professor 
of  physical  education.  Gray  said  four 
co-ed  teams  have  already  been  formed, 
two  women's  teams  and  17  men's 
teams. 

The  volleyball  season  will  begin 
Monday.     Jan,     28.     Gray     said. 
Women's  teams  are  scheduled  for  6:30 
p,m,  and  co-ed  teams  for  7;30  p.m. 

The  men's  teams  will  open  their 

season  on  Tuesday,  Jan,  29,  with  6:30. 

7:30.  and  possibly  8:30  games,  accor- 

0  Gray, 


Housing  pains? 
contact  Haas 

Have  a  problem  with  your  housing? 
Perhaps  you  don't  have  any  heat.  Or 
else  you  have  cockroaches  invading 
vour  room.  Don't  sit  back  and  keep 
quiet,  according  to  Housing  Coor- 
dinator Charles  J,  Haas, 

Haas  advises  any  students  who  are 
having  problems  to  get  in  touch  with 
him  to  discuss  the  situation.  If  the  pro- 
blem is  one  that  the  landlord  should 
remedy,  Haas  says  Health  and  City 
Codes  Officer  George  Dooris  will  be 
contacted, 

Haas  said  that  leases  now  require  a 
warranty  that  apartments  that  are 
rented  as  such  should  be  able  to  be  liv- 
ed in.  So  students,  fight  for  your  rights 
to  a  livable  apartment. 

Rap  session   to  be 
tomorrow  evening 

A  Student/Landlord  Rap  session 
will  be  held  in  the  cafeteria  tomorrow 
evening  from  7  to  9  p,m,,  according  to 
Charles  Haas,  housing  coordinator, 

A  representative  from  the  Northcen- 
tral  Pennsylvania  Landlords  Associa- 
tion will  be  attending,  said  Haas. 

The  Association  is  an  organization 
which  provides  credit-checks  for 
landlords  on  prospective  tenants. 

The  representative  will  mainly  be 
answering  questions  from  landlords, 
but  will  answer  questions  from 
students  also,  said  Haas. 

Students,  faculty  help 
with  special  chair 

In  an  effort  to  satisfy  the  needs  of 
area  citizens  and  local  non-profit  agen- 
cies, the  students  and  faculty  of  the 
College  work  on  many  industrial  pro- 
jects, according  to  George  C.  Krause, 
director,  building  technologies  divi- 
sion. 

One  such  project  is  a  specially- 
designed  chair  for  Floyd  Todd,  a  local 
man  disabled  by  multiple  sclerosis. 

This  chair  was  built  by  building 
trades  students  and  is  one  of  many  pro- 
jects these  students  undertake,  accor- 
ding to  Krause. 


Leadership  conference  set 
in  February  at  lake  camp 


Field  hockey  coach  Mani  BryanI  relaxes  wiih  Annua  L.  Lawlon  after 
game.    (See  Special  Feature  on  It  omen's  Field  Hockey,  Page  5.f 


transportation  and  lodging,  A  non- 
refundable deposit  of  $10  must  be  paid 
by  Thursday,  Jan,  31,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

The  trip  is  sponsored  by  the  Studnet 
Activities     Association.     Student 

_      Government     Association,    and    the 

sign  up  at  the  Communication's     Outing  Club,  Mrs,  Fremiotti  said, 
iier  or  see  Mrs,  Fremiotti,   There  is    ^^^^— ^^-^-^■""^■"^"^■"^"^~ 
m  for  about  30  students,  according     In     the     Next     Issue. ..The     70s 
Urs,  Fremiotti,                                      SPOTLIGHT  is  on  comedy...  in  an  ar- 
Ihe  fee  for  the  trip  will  be  $25.  said     ,jf|p  |,,  siaffwriler  Cindy  M.  Snook. 
,.     Fremioiii,        The     fee    covers ^^^^^__^ 


A  leadership  conference  will  be  held 
Crystal  Lake  Camp  Feb,  8,  9.  and 
The  conference  is  open  to  all 
denis  on  a  first  come,  first  serve 
-IS.  according  to  Mrs,  Jo  Ann  R, 
:nnoiti.  activities  assistant. 

students  interested  in  the  trip 


Pmc2  spotlight  Monday,  Jan   21.  I980 


VIEWPOINT 


Public  schools 
rated  average 

According  to  the  results  of  a  1 979  Gallup  Poll, 
public  opinion  toward  public  and  parochial 
schools  is  changing  lor  the  worse 

The  information,  released  in  a  November  1979 
newsletter  of  the  National  Council  of  Teachers  of 
English,  indicated  that  30  percent  of  those  polled 
awarded  schools  a  grade  of  "C" 

Only  8  percent  awarded  the  schools  an  "A", 
and  26  percent  awarded  a  "B".  while  1 1  percent 
gave  a  "D".  and  7  percent  gave  a  failing  grade  to 
the  school  systems 

As  recently  as  1973.  over  hall  of  those  polled 
believed  their  children  were  getting  a  better 
education  due  to  improved  methods  and  a  greater 
variety  of  subjects. 

So  why  change  the  program'' 

The  major  problem,  according  to  the  results,  is 
a  lack  of  discipline,  with  28  percent  of  those  polled 
citing  it  as  the  major  drawback  to  a  good  educa- 
tion 

Others  cited  drug  abuse,  lack  of  financial  sup- 
port, poor  curriculum,  and  difficulty  in  finding  good 
teachers  as  problems  to  be  dealt  with  to  improve 
education. 

An  overwhelming  85  percent  agreed  teachers 
should  be  required  to  pass  a  state  board  examina- 
tion before  they  are  licensed 
Suggestions  for  improvement  included  more  in- 
dividual attention  and  an  emphasis  on  leaching 
basic  subjects. 

Ninety-four  percent  of  those  polled  agreed 
English  grammar  and  composition  should  be  em- 
phasized, with  97  percent  desiring  an  emphasis 
on  mathematics 

Among  the  less  important  subjects,  according 
to  the  results  of  the  poll,  were  music,  foreign 
language,  and  art  -  with  less  than  half  of  those 
polled  believing  those  subjects  to  be  essential 

Whether  we  agree  with  the  poll  results  or  not,  it 
is  clearly  indicated  that  the  public  does  not  feel  it  is 
getting  its  money's  worth  out  of  education  and 
there  are  definite  areas  that  need  to  be  closely 
scrutinized  for  ways  of  improving  them. 


FROM  MY  DESK 

Read,  watch,  or  listen: 
but  just  get  informed 

By  John  F.  Zelewicz 
01  Tha  SPOTLIQHT  Soil 

In  this  day  and  age  of  world-wide  communica- 
tion, some  people  manage  to  slay  in  their  own 
private  worlds,  uninformed  about  the  world  about 
them. 

Even  with  television,  radio,  newspapers,  and 
vast  other  sources  of  communication,  many  re- 
main ignorant  of  world  matters 

Some  people  feel  that  the  matters  of  the  world 
don't  affect  them. 

Those  people  are  sadly  mistaken.  They  affect 
us  either  directly  or  indirectly  But  they  do  affect 
us 

Keep  informed  of  the  world  around  usi 

It  doesn't  matter  it  you  read,  watch,  or  listen  to 
the  news    The  important  thing  is  that  you  do 


Editorial 

A  note  of  thanks 

A  note  of  thanks  is  in  order  to  members  of  the 
Student  Government  Association  who  returned  to 
the  campus  "early"  -  before  classes  were 
scheduled  to  begin  -  in  order  to  help  with  orienta- 
tion 

Their  assistance  in  giving  Information  to  new 
students  certainly  had  to  be  beneficial 

Book  review 

A  warm  portrait 

By  Trudy  Shively 
01  The  SPOTLIGHT  SIsll 

"Barbra  An  Illustrated  Biography"  written  by 
Frank  Brady,  is  a  warm  and  compassionate  por- 
trait of  one  of  today's  most  electrifying  superstars: 
Barbra  Streisand 

Streisand's  story  begins  in  the  Williamsburg 
section  of  Brooklyn,  New  York  Her  childhood 
was  sad  and  often  depressing.,  and  unques- 
tionably lonely.  It  was  not  until  her  seventeenth 
birthday  that  she  decided  if  she  was  ever  to 
become  more  than  what  her  family  and  friends 
described  as  "an  ugly,  skinny,  untalented  female," 
it  would  have  to  be  now.  With  $750  and  a  suitcase 
lull  of  dreams,  she  was  on  her  way 

The  book  travels  from  her  early  days  as  an 
aspiring  actress,  where  sleeping  on  stairways  and 
office  floors  was  not  uncommon:  to  the  present 
day  prima  donna  she  has  become  -  who  insists 
she  'still  prefers  IvIacDonalds." 

This  is  a  unique  rags-to-riches  story  From  an 
insecure,  yet  determined  child,  to  the  number-one 
female  vocalist  and  recording  artist  in  the  world 
From  the  "ugly  duckling"  nick-named  "the  beak," 
to  the  most  versatile,  multi-talented  actress  today 
Her  story  is  an  inspiration  to  anyone  and 
everyone  who  has  a  dream  The  book  is  a  must 
for  fans  everywhere 

Just  Thinkin' 

By  The  Reporter  Service 

That  last  little  "one  for  the  road"  may  be  a  grave 
mistake  Those  who  constantly  boast  about  their 
ancestors  and  say  little  about  their  closest 
relatives  would  seem  to  believe  that  their  families 
are  better  off  dead  than  alive.  , 

Satisfy  all  the  wants  of  children  and  hogs  and 
the  eventual  results  will  be  good  hogs  ready  for 
the  market  and  bad  children  ready  for  special 
counseling... 


Movie  revievy 

Star  Trek  nnission 

finds  fantasy,  fame, 

and  fortunes 

By  John  Zelewicz 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

The  U  S  S,  Enterprise  is  out  on  a  mission  and 
the  hearts  of  Star  Trek  fans  go  with  it 

After  many  years  (and  many  scripts),  the  Enter- 
prise commences  upon  a  heroic  mission  -  in  the 
movie,  "Star  Trek"  -  to  save  the  earth  with  Cap- 
tain Kirk  at  the  helm  and  Ivir  Spock.  Dr  McCoy 
and  other  members  of  the  original  TV  series  cast 
right  by  his  side 

The  Enterprise  and  its  crew  is  to  stop  a 
mysterious  object  later  known  as  "V'ger"  that 
destroys  anything  in  its  path  and  is  on  a  collision 
course  with  earth. 

Science  fiction  (SF)  fans  -  and  especially  Star 
Trek  fans  -  won't  want  to  miss  this  film 

Although  the  film  is  not  long  enough  to  allow  the 
characters  to  assume  the  familiarity  they  had  on 
the  series  it  is  none  the  less  well  written,  acted  - 
and  exciting. 

Though  many  critics  are  "hitting"  the  film  and 
claiming  it  was  made  to  cash  in  on  the  fame  earn- 
ed by  the  series,  others  totally  disagree. 

The  special  effects  used  were  bordering  on  fan- 
tasy and  the  climatic  ending  was  worth  waiting 
years  to  see 


LETTERS 


To  the  Editor 

I  wish  to  compliment  the  SPOTLIGHT,  par- 
ticularly Gail  Thompson,  for  the  review  of  the 
1970's  (see  SPOTLIGHT  January  14,  1980)  Her 
essay  provided  SPOTLIGHT  readers  with  a  clear, 
thoughtful,  thematic  approach  to  a  complex  and 
turbulent  period  As  one  who  was  interviewed  for 
the  piece.  I  can  attest  to  the  writer's  thought  pro- 
voking and  comprehensive  approach  to  the  sub- 
lect  The  feature  is  a  fine  testament  to  the  profes- 
sionalism of  all  involved  in  its  production 

Sincerely. 
Dan  Doyle 


Managing  Editor 


Oani 


!  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

Ttie  SPOTLIGHT  IS  published  weekly  Ihrougiiout  trie  academic 
year  except  tor  college  vacations  by  lournalism  and  other  in- 
terested students 
Olllce: 


Mini-tonal:   You  are  the  sum  of  what  you 
accomplished  yesterday. 

And  tomorrow  depends  on  today's  ac- 
complishments. 


I  Placi 


Room  7, 

Klump  Academic  Center 

Telephone: 

(717)  326-3761 

Extension  221 


Features  and 
Editorial  Page  Editor 

John  F    Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S  Zelewicz 

Chief  Photographer 

Timothy  A    Tolh 

Advertising  Represenlativ 

and  Senior  Stall  Reporlei 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Stall  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexet 

Michael  T    Lekites 

Production  Team  This  Issue 

Lana  M   Apker.  Jacqueline  J   Cardene.  Brian  M   Rippey. 
Cindy  M.  Snook,  Robert  E.  Thomas^  Mollie  S.  Zelewicz. 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene 
Lana  Apker 
Robert  J    Allen 
John  L    Rickert 
Brian  M    Rippey 
Leslie  M    Rogers 
Trudy  M    Shively 
Cindy  M    Snook 
Larry  G   Steele 
Christina  N    Weibley 
Robert  E    Thomas 


Monday.  Jan.  21.  1980  SPOTLIGHT  Page  J 


spring 
/r     Jjartuaf' 

'  spring 
^erself, 
^reening  coquettishly, 
Orily  to  dis^pear  into  winter's  night 


Poem  by  Mollie  Zelewicz 
Photo  by  John  Zelewicz 


Page4  SPOTLIGHT  Monday.  Jan.  21.  19 


SPOTLIGHTing  the  70s 


Science  fiction- 

up  from  the  underground 


Science  fiction  came  of  age  in  (he  1970's. 

Jules  Verne's  dream  of  moon  exploration  became  a  reali- 
ty in  1969  with  men  leaving  footprints  in  the  soft,  impres- 
sionable surface  of  the  moon.  That  moonwalk  brought 
space  exploration  into  the  living  rooms  of  America,  live. 

The  imagination  of  a  nation  was  captured  b.v  the  event. 
The  finer  universe  popularized  by  Star  Trek  seemed  within 
grasp. 

But  Buster  Crabbe,  who  played  in  1930's  versions  of  Flash 
Gordon  and  Buck  Rogers  movies,  feared  the  moonwalk  and 
the  realization  of  space  travel  would  kill  science  fiction. 
When  Armstrong  stepped  onto  the  moon's  surface  Crabbe 
thought,  "You  have  done  Flash  Gordon  a  dastardly  deed." 


MoUie  Zelewicz 


Leonard  Nimoy  speaks  at  a  press  con- 
ference before  his  presenialion  of 
"Mr.  Spock  and  I",  held  in  I  he 
Clemens  Center.  Feb.  IS.  1978. 


Text  by  Mollie  Zelewicz 


Instead  of  killing  the  need  for 
fiction,  the  moonwalk  seemed 
to  tend  the  entire  genre  a  credibility 
that  spurred  it  to  new  heights  in  the 
70's. 

This  new  credibility,  linked  with  the 
ever-present  need  of  man  to  escape  the 
realities  of  his  society,  brought  science 
fiction  up  from  the  underground  closet 
where  it  remained  alive  from  the  30's 
to  the  70's. 

Science  fiction  movies  of  the  70's 
were  slick,  multi-million  dollar  enter- 
prises. The  grade  'B'  monsters  of  the 
50's  and  60's  gave  way  to  frighteningly 
realistic  heavies  like  Darth  Vadar.  and 
the  elusive  creature  in  Alien. 

Technology  is  in  part  responsible  for 
the  mcreased  believability  of  science 
fiction  movies.  The  pristine  special  ef- 
fects born  in  the  60's  for  2001,  A  Space 
Odessey,  came  to  maturity  in  the  70's 
epic  thriller.  Star  Wars.  The  sets  and 
special  effects  of  the  70's  were  realistic. 
Space  craft  showed  the  dirt  and  wear 
born  of  normal  use. 

Technology  also  played  a  part  in  the 
increased  popularity  of  science  fiction 
books  and  magazines.  The  70's  best 
science  fiction  writers  were  educated, 
informed  about  present  and  speculated 
technology.  Their  themes  reflected 
social  concerns  about  scienlilic  ad- 
vances. 


'...a  wonderfully 

theatrical 
medium...' 


Cloning,  test  tube  babies,  the  rights 
of  aliens,  ownership  of  the  moon's 
mineral  rights  are  all  science  fiction 
themes,  but  they  are  real  issues  too. 
Science  fiction  provided  an  avenue  to 
explore  these  issues  in  the  70's,  an 
avenue  heavily  traveled  by  Ray  Brad- 
bury. Robert  Heinlein,  George  Lucas, 
James  Blish.  Issac  Asimov.  Ben  Bova 
and  Arthur  C.  Clarke. 

Writers  were  not  alone  in  finding 
science  fiction  a  way  to  express  what 
they  wanted  to  say.  Actor  Leonard 
Nimoy,  Mr.  Spock  of  Star  Trek,  said 
he  finds  "Science  fiction  a  wonderfully 
theatrical  medium."  He  feels  it  lends 
itself  to  storytelling  and  romance. 

That  feeling  of  romance,  the  quest, 
the  unknown,  may  be  what  linked  with 
the  new  credibility  lent  by  the  moon- 
walk to  stir  the  public  interest  of  the 
70's. 

"Nobody  could  have  predicted  the 
impact,  the  longevity,  the  profound  ef- 
fect on  people  "  Star  Trek  had.  "We 
live  in  science  fiction  times.  What  was 
fantasy  30  -  40  years  ago  is  real  now." 

Gene  Roddenberry,  creator  of  Star 
Trek,  said  science  fiction  offers  a  way 
to  comment  on  the  times  in  an  unob- 
trusive, acceptable  way.  It  was  this 
one-step-removed  from  reality  feeling 


'Nobody  could 
have 
predicted 
the  impact...' 


that  allowed  Roddenberry  to  comment 
on  social  issues  of  the  late  60's  within 
the  framework  of  the  Star  Trek  series. 

Science  fiction  evolved  through  the 
70's  as  a  form  of  social  commentary. 
But  the  very  fantasy  nature  of  the 
genre  could  be  its  downfall.  Already 
there  is  a  formula  for  success  in  the 
commercial  minds  of  many  who  would 
be  science  fiction  writers,  filmmakers, 
T.V.  producers:  take  one  menacing 
danger,  add  two  cute  robots,  a  space 
cowboy,  a  beautiful,  liberated  girl,  a 
couple  of  scientists  or  straight  men  and 
a  crisis.  Add  several  grains  of  salt  and 
shake  liberally  and  apply  to  the  public 
for  as  much  as  the  traffic  will  bear. 

If  science  fiction  is  to  remain  a  vital 
art  form  throughout  the  80's,  it  must 
continue  to  provide  thought  provoking 
entertainment,  or  fantastic  escapism, 
or  both.  Reduction  to  a  formula  will 
send  it  back  underground  where  it 
would  survive  fueled  by  a  hard  core  of 
creators  and  fans  as  it  did  in  the  years 
from  the  1930's  to  the  1970's. 


Illustrated 

by 

David  A.Musser 


Members  of  ihe  team  talk  among  themselves  while  wailing  for  (he  bus  to 
depart. 


Women's 

field  hockey  ^^'^^-^^ 

team  breaks  \^         \4IC 

records  "         '"■'   -^ 


Showing  anticipation,  Alice  M.  Kennedy  starts  toward  the  hockey 
fields. 


Photos  bv  Jackie  Cardene 


When  the  women's  field  hockey  team  ended  its  first 
year  under  the  coaching  eye  of  a  new  coach  --  Marti 
Bryant,  secretary  in  the  Physical  Plant  office  --  it  had  a 
couple  of  new  individual  records  to  its  credit.  One 
record  was  for  number  of  goals  in  one  game...  Another 
record  was  for  the  selection  of  three  women  for 
Women's  Field  Hockey  Conference  honors. 


Both  teams  scramble  to  receive  the  loose 
ball. 


Team  captains  and  officials  discuss  field  rules  at  Bucks  County  Community  College. 


SPOTLIGHT 


Monday.  Jan.  21.  1980 


Food  Service       SGA  to  USe 
to  go  Mexican     new  idea 


The  Food  and  Hospitality  division 
will  serve  a  Mexican  dinner  this 
Wednesday,  from  5:30  lo  6:30  p.m., 
according  to  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio, 
assistant  professor. 

The  menu  for  the  meal  will  include; 
Avgolemono  Soup  (chicken  broth  with 
a  tangy  lemon  flavor).  Sunrise  Salad 
(lettuce  with  avacado  and  orange 
strips).  EI  Dorado  Chih  (served  with 
rice),  Maiz  Mcxicana  (Mexican  corn), 
Anadama  bread  (homemade  bread 
with  a  touch  of  cornmeal)  and  Plan 
(baked  carmel  custard),  according  to 
Mrs.  Migho. 

New  talent 
being  sought 

The  Theater  Company  is  currently 
getting  acts  together  for  a  variety  show 
entitled  "Reaching  Out",  according  to 
Mrs.  Lea  Frymire,  director  of  theater 
activities. 

Mrs.  Frymire  said  the  club  is  looking 
for  new  talent  to  go  along  with  what  it 
already  has.  Any  student  Interested  in 
singing,  dancing,  or  acting,  may  con- 
tact her  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium,  she  said. 

Rehearsals  will  be  scheduled  around 
a  student's  schedule,  she  said. 

The  variety  show  will  have  excerpts 
from  plays  and  musicals  as  well  as  up- 
to-date  songs,  according  to  Mrs. 
Frymire.  Also,  students  will  perform 
their  own  compositions  on  the  piano 
and  guitar. 

The  Theater  Company  will  also  do 
excerpts  from  "My  Fair  Lady"  as  a 
complement  to  Lycoming  College, 
Mrs,  Frymire  said.  Lycoming 
College's  Theater  Company  is  current- 
ly traveling  through  local  school 
districts  performing  the  play,  she  ex- 
plained. 


to  elect 


World  of  Work 


riui 


/.IW»I^^^  for  It  orhl  nf  It  nrk  urv  /, 
Off,,,:  Hu„m  „VW.  K/(if, 
u,„fl,.,-- 


In,, 


JiuuU  h,-  .{,. 


Under  "new  business"  at  last  week's 
Student  Government  Association 
(SGA)  meeting.  Kimberly  A.  Dincher, 
SGA  president,  commented  on  a  new 
campaign-election  process. 

Miss  Dincher  said  any  students  in- 
terested in  an  SGA  office  will  have  to 
campaign  this  year.  This  Is  a  new  con- 
cept in  SGA  elections,  she  said,  and  ad- 
ded that  campaigning  will  require  some 
work.  but.  "so  docs  the  job." 

An  election  committee  was  organiz- 
ed after  further  discussion  on  the  sub- 
ject . 

Other  issues  discussed  at  the  meeting 
last  Tuesday  afternoon  included  a  loan 
from  ihe  SGA  to  Alpha  Omega 
Fellowship  and  a  report  from  the  hous- 
ing commiltee. 

Traditional  hooking 
of  rugs  now  offered 

Traditional  rug  hooking  is  being  of- 
fered as  an  off-campus  course  beginn- 
ing tomorrow  in  the  Hughesville  High 
School,  according  to  Mrs.Chalmer  C. 
Van  Horn,  instructor. 

The  course  will  be  held  on  Tuesdays 
from  7  lo  10  p.m.  and  will  continue  for 
eight  weeks,  she  said. 

Traditional  rug  hooking,  according 
to  Mrs.  Van  Horn,  is  the  process  of 
pulling  up  narrow  strips  of  wool  )o! 
through  a  mesh  of  a  foundation 
material  --  burlap.  The  loops  are  pull- 
ed up  many  times,  close  together  lo 
form  a  pile,  she  said. 

A  special  tool  with  a  wooden  handle 
and  a  metal  hook  at  the  end  is  used. 
The  craft  takes  its  name  from  the  tool, 
she  added. 

The    Radio   Corporation   of   America 
( RCA)  was  formed  in  1919. 


Career  Jobs 

Welder  -  Borg  Warner.  P.O.  Box  1592.  York.  Pa.  17405.  Apply  Allen  Liv- 
ingston or  call  717-846-7890. 

Estimator  Building  Construction  --  Crider  Construction  Co..  P.O.  Box  150 
Lewistown.  Pa.  17044.    Apply  Roy  Crider.  president,  or  call  717-242-251 1. 

Computer  Operator  -  Weis  Markets  Inc..  1000  South  Second  St..  Sunbury, 
Pa.  17801. 

Tool  Design  Person  ~  Emporium  Specialties  Co.,  Inc.,  P.O.  Box  65. 
Austin.  Pa.  16720.  Apply  James  Moore  or  call  814-647-8661.  Entry  level  pos- 
tions. 

Machinists  and  drafts  persons  --  Emporium  Specialties  Co.,  Inc.,  P.O.  Box 
65,  Austin,  Pa,  16720.  Apply  James  Moore  or  call  814-647-8661.  Entry  level 
positions. 

Electronics  Technician  --  Computer  Consoles,  Inc.,  97  Humboldt  St., 
Rochester.  N.Y.  14609.  Apply  Warren  R.  Howard,  personnel  reresentative. 
Person  should  be  knowledgeable  about  digital  equipment 

Camp  Director  --  Group  Leader.  Group  Aid  and  Cook-  Food  and 
Hospitality  and  Forestry  graduates  should  apply  to  Allegheny  National  Forest, 
P.O.  Box  847,  Warren.  Pa.  16365.  Camp  Dircciors  and  Group  Leaders  work 
in  Sheffield  Ranger  Disuki.  Croup  Aid  m  Shdhcld.  Nhirioin  ille.  Bradford, 
and  Ridgeway  Ranger  Oimiki-     <.  nnk  uuikx  in  ShcMickl  Rani;er  District. 


Food  service 
serves  meal 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  students 
will  serve  a  meal  this  evening  as  prac- 
tical experience  in  food  preparation 
and  service,  according  to  Mrs.  Vivian 
P.  Moon,  associate  professor. 

Dinner  will  be  served  from  5:30  p.m. 
to  6:30  p.m.  The  price  of  the  meal  will 
be  $2.25  with  dessert  a  la  carte.  Service 
will  be  cafeteria  style,  she  said. 

Two  scenic  sites 
featured  in  films 

Two  scenic  sites  will  be  featured  dur- 
ing the  Films-Sandwiched-In  program 
at  noon  this  Wednesday  in  the  Com- 
munity Room  of  the  James  V.  Brown 
Library. 

Viewers  may  bring  their  lunch 
Beverage  will  be  served. 


Blueprinting  course 
starts  tomorrow  night 

A  course  in  blueprint  reading  and 
drawing  starts  tomorrow  at 
Hughesville  High  School,  according  to 
Chalmer  Van  Horn.  The  course  is 
directed  by  the  off-campus  division  of 
the  College. 

The  12-week  course  will  meet 
Tuesdays  from  7  to  10  p.m.,  he  said. 
The  course  can  be  used  by  high 
school  students  and  persons  exploring 
career  opportunities  in  drafting, 
engineering,  pattern  making,  and 
sheeimetal  layout,  he  added. 

Tuition  will  be  $36  plus  the  cost  of  a 
workbook  (about  $6).  Tools  and 
materials  will  be  provided,  he  said. 

Further  information  is  available 
from  Van  Horn  at  326-3761. 

Marconi  sent  the  first  wireless  signals 
across  the  English  Channel  in  1899. 


Joints  and  bongs:  outlets  for  obliterated  burnouts 


Editor's  Note:  This  article  was  contributed  by 
Cli//  H.  Siple,  a  forestry  student.  Optnions  ex- 
pressed may  or  may  not  be  those  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT 

In  a  digital,  microwave,  polyvinyl 
chloride  world  that  is  traveling  at  the 
speed  of  light  toward  an  end  un- 
justifiable by  the  means,  it  is  no  sur- 
prise that  a  new  mutant  species  should 
find  its  space  in  the  population. 

Composed  of  indolence, 
unintelligibilily,  and  for  the  most  part 
vacumn.  this  new  entry  on  the  homo 
sapiens  tally  sheet  known  as 
"The  Burnout".  Little  scientific  data 
is  available  concerning  the  species,  as 
all  researchers  coming  in  contact  with 


it  have  lost  interest  in  future  ex- 
periments, having  been  overwhelmed 
by  the  Burnout's  contagious  effect  on 
human  tenacity. 

The  Burnout  begins  life  as  a  normal 
human  being,  but  often  the  mutational 
effects  are  experienced  during  the  for- 
mative years  of  childhood.  The  child  is 
usually  a  victim  of  the  "Too  much  - 
Too  Little"  syndrome.  Too  much  free 
will,  too  little  discipline,  or  too  little 
love  and  too  many  beatings,  put  the 
youngster  on  the  first  step  of  the  stair- 
case to  Burned  Out-dom.  The  change 
begins. 

The  first  cousin  to  the  aforemen- 


tioned type  is  the  normal  person,  who, 
having  had  a  happy  childhood,  en- 
counters an  experience  later  on  that's 
just  too  tough  to  handle.  The  mind 
short-circuits,  the  fortress  of  resolve 
and  self-preservation  crumbles,  and  as 
the  dust  settles,  just  before  this  once- 
happy  individual  takes  his  own  life,  the 
sign  in  the  sky  appears:  DOPE  -  Bet- 
ter living  through  chemistry.  Oh  well, 
any  port  in  a  storm.  Within  a  short 
time  the  change  is  complete,  and  the 
label //omo5flpieni  ("Thinking  Man") 
is  peeled  off  and  replaced  by  the 
Homo  conflagrus  laxas  ("Burned-Out 
man"). 


For  those  feeling  pity  and  a  wish  to 
help,  forget  it  -  you're  wasting  your 
time.  The  Burnout  is  a  consumer  "  not 
merely  of  drugs,  but  money,  food, 
lodging,  your  feelings  -  anything 
you're  foolish  enough  to  let  go  of. 

A  burnout  sometimes  talks  of  great 
plans,  but  these  ride  on  a  wave  of 
smoke  and  chemicals  and  eventually 
drown  without  making  the  transition 
action.  A  Burnout  registering  for  col- 
lege sees  only  the  tree  evenings  and 
low-interest  loans  that  accompany 
academic  life.  The  education  offered 
falls  by  the  wayside  as  the  Burnout 
learns  more  ways  to  stay  high  longer. 


ENERGY. 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 

j^f)     ^                     Land  of  Oz 

AJlrNnn    I                          14  W.  Willow  Street 
Y\^^'^^                      W^»//Mwi5/Jor?,  Pa.  17701 
t;-    A      V                                (717)322-6712 
'd         ^_   Walerbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 
Finest  Selection 
of  Rolling  Papers  and  Smoking  Accessories 

Monday.  Jan.  21.  1980 


Security  gates 
clang  shut 
on  freedom 


Sludenls  leave  bus  after  long  wail  for  clearance  lo  enii 
prison. 


Looking  out  through  prison  bars, 
the  clanging  of  security  gates  as  they 
clang  shut  on  freedom,  and  the  cons- 
tant chatter  of  inmates  and  guards 
were  some  of  the  experiences  of  28 
students  on  a  recent  trip  to  the 
Lewisburg  Federal  Penitentiary. 

Two  Sociology  classes,  taught  by 
Dr.  Richard  M.  Sahn,  and  a  Creative 
Writing  class  taught  by  Herbert  (Mike) 
Ertel,  toured  the  facility  on  Dec.  13. 

According  to  Ertel,  he  brought  his 
creative  writing  class  on  the  tour 
because,  "the  broader,  wider  ex- 
periences you  have,  the  more  you  have 
to  write  from." 

He  said  it  was  "very  likely  the 
students  will  see  something  that  they'll 
use." 

Main  gale  First  defense 

The  tour  began  with  a  long  wait  to 
obtain  clearance  to  enter  the  front 
gate,  the  first  point  of  defense  at  the 
facility. 

Visitors  to  the  facility  are  required 
to  use  an  intercom  to  tell  the  tower  of- 
fice their  name  and  why  they  are  there. 
The  officer  then  telephones  inside  the 
compound  lo  obtain  the  necessary 
clearances. 

Visiting  hours  for  inmates  are  8  a.m. 
to  3  p.m.  every  day,  including  Sunday. 
Relatives  who  wish  to  vistis  must  be 
placed  on  a  "visiting  list"  before  they 
are  cleared  to  enter  the  compound. 
Prison  capacity  1128 

According  to  Jack  W.  Swisher,  of 
the  educational  division  of  the  Prison, 
the  prison's  capacity  is  1 128  inmates. 
The  most  they  have  ever  had.  however, 
was  1450. 

Inmates  are  assigned  duties  they 
must  perform  each  day.  Those  inmates 
having  a  special  talent  and  the  en- 
thusiasm are  assigned  tasks  they  are  in- 
terested in,  such  as  working  on 
machinery,  building  furniture,  etc. 

The  Prison  inmates  at  Lewisburg  are 
largely  there  for  white  collar  crimes, 
bank  robbery,  narcotics,  and 
embezzlement,  said  Swisher. 

Educational  opportunities 

There  are  many  opportunities  for 
education  for  the  inmate,  he  said. 
Non-English  speaking  inmates  are  of- 
fered English  lessons,  basic  math 
courses  are  offered,  and  there  is  an  en- 
tire Dental  program  which  offers  the 
inmate  accreditation  as  a  Dental 
Technician  upon  release. 

All  prosthetics  for  Federal  prisoners 


Photos 

and 

text 

by 

Jan  Daniel 


are    made    in    the    Dental    clinic    at 
Lewisburg,  said  Swisher. 

Dental  students  also  do  all  dental 

work  for  the  other  inmates,  he  added. 

At  present,  Swisher  said,  there  are 

40  inmates  enrolled  in  the  five-semester 

program. 

At  another  building,  inmates  make 
metal  furniture  for  use  in  all  of  the 
Federal  institutions  in  the  U.S.,  said 
Swisher. 

Homemade  "knives" 
Swisher  added  that  the  metal  shop  is 
where  the  "knives"  come  from.  The 
inmates  wrap  a  piece  of  cloth  around  a 
piece  of  sharp  metal  and  use  them  as 
weapons. 

Inmates  are  paid  according  to  their 
cooperation,  ability  to  perform  their 
task,  and  obedience  to  prison  rules. 

Those  inmates  in  the  fourth  grade, 
the  lowest,  are  paid   .48  per  hour. 
Those  in  the  upper  grades  can  earn  as 
much  as  $175  a  month,  said  Swisher. 

Swisher  said  many  of  the  prisoners 
are  able  to  save  quite  a  bit  of  their 
money  for  when  they  are  released,  and 


Students    enter    first    point    of    defense    at     the    Prison 
-  the  main  gale. 


those  with  families  are  able  to  help  sup- 
port them,  giving  them  a  feeling  of 
continued  importance. 

Incentive  programs 
Another  incentive  program  rotates 
the  prisoners  into  different  cell  blocks. 
Those  prisoners  with  exemplary  con- 
duct are  issued  a  bunk  in  "Honor 
quarters"  -  a  private  room  with  bunk, 
chair,  bulletin  board,  and  sink. 

Prisoners  are  admitted  onto  a  regular 
cell  block  when  first  incarcerated, 
where  there  are  rows  of  bunks  with  lit- 
tle privacy. 

If  the  prisoners  display  good 
behavior  for  three  months,  they  are 
moved  into  "H"  block,  where  they 
have  cubicles  and  a  private  bunk.  The 
prisoners  must  display  good  behavior 
for  one  year  in  order  to  qualify  for 
"Honor  Quarters",  said  Swisher. 

Drug  rehabilitation 
The  prison  alos  has  a  seperate  cell 
block  for  those  inmates  accused  of 
drug-related  crimes.  Those  prisoners 
are  required  to  slay  in  "I"  block  all 
day    except    for    meals    and    special 


privileges,  and  are  given  therapy  ses- 
sions each  day. 

Throughout  the  Prison,  all  signs  are 
written  in  English  and  Spanish,  ex- 
emplifying the  large  number  of 
Spanish-speaking  inmates. 

According  to  Swisher,  the  Hispanic 
population  is  second  only  to  the  black 
population  of  the  prison,  which  com- 
prises 65  percent  of  the  total  prison 
population. 

Not  many  stabbings 

R.  W.  Cronralh,  a  caseload  worker 
at  the  prison,  said  there  are  not  as 
many  stabbings  in  a  prison  as  Ihe 
public  is  led  to  believe. 

He  said  most  of  the  reasons  for 
assaults  involve  narcotics-related 
disputes,  sex  pressure,  and  in- 
debtedness. 

Cronralh  said,  "There  aren't  that 
many  hits,  and  we  can  usually  secrete  a 
guy  away  to  protect  him." 

Those  students  attending  Ihe  tour  in- 
cluded: 

Raymond  F.  Broscious,  Kathryn  F. 
Broscious,  Louise  Hockman,  Ann  E. 
Caldwell,  Beverly  M.  Murray,  Nancy 
A.  Sanders,  all  from  the  creative 
writing  class. 

Those  students  from  Dr.  Sahn's 
criminology  class  were  Susan  M. 
Snyder,  Dana  J.  Ward,  and  Melissa  L. 
Young. 

Students  from  Dr.  Sahn's  sociology 
class  were  Tina  I.  Koch,  Samuel  X. 
Harrison,  Margaret  A,  Mitchell, 
Samuel  R.  Dodt,  Eileen  M.  Frey,  Julie 
A.  Shannon,  Vicki  L.  Ault,  Susan  E. 
Kelbish,  Joseph  D.  Miller,  James  A. 
Anoni,  Harry  M.  Worthington,  James 
F.  Purcell,  Lynn  Poust,  and  Jerome  J. 
Alex. 


"The  Wall"  of  the  prison,  which  e.xtends  six  feet 

underground    so     prisoners    cannot     tunnel 

. ,    underneath.    The  tower  office  overlooks  the  com- 

;;^    pound,  gets  clearance  for  visitors,  and  admits  civil 

Mp   service  workers  to  the  Prison. 


Monday,  Jan    21.  I9SU 


Alpha  Omega 
schedules 
meeting  times 

The  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  has 
scheduled  its  meetings  for  Ihis  semester 
for  Tuesdays,  from  7  p.m.  to  9  p.m.,  in 
Room  407  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center,  according  to  James  V.  Phillips, 
president. 

This  Christian  club  is  open  to  all  in- 
terested students;  to  join,  simply  at- 
tend a  meeting.  Last  semester's 
membership  totaled  14  members,  with 
8  people  showing  up  for  this  semester's 
first  meeting,  he  said. 

Phillips  heads  bible  study  and  prayer 
time  during  club  meetings. 

Alpha  Omega  sponsors  some  ac- 
tivities open  to  all  College  students. 
Among  these  is  an  ice  skating  outing 
planned  for  this  month,  depending  on 
the  weather.  Another  project  in  the 
planning  stage  is  a  concert  starring 
contemporary  Christian  Rock  artists 
from  Texas.  The  tentative  date  for  this 
concert  is  March  5,  according  to 
Phillips. 

Raffle  begins 
Wednesday  for  PBL 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  be 
holding  a  raffle,  beginning  this 
Wednesday  and  continuing  until  the 
drawing  date  of  Friday.  Feb.  8. 

According  to  Andy  W.  Wenlz.  PBL 
president,  a  total  of  $2(X)  in  prize 

money  will  be  awarded:  First  prize. 
$100;  second  prize,  $50;  and  two  $25 
prizes. 


Student  I.D. 
to  carry  photo 

Students  interested  in  having  their 
photo  on  College  identification  cards 
may  have  their  pictures  taken  for  that 
purpose  starting  today.  Pictures  will 
be  taken  in  the  Student  Government 
Association  building,  behind  the  Lair, 
according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiot- 
ti.  activities  assistant. 

Dennis  W.  Rogan  will  take  photos 
Monday  and  Wednesday  from  2  p.m. 
to  6  p.m.  and  Tuesday  and  Thursday 
from  noon  to  6  p.m. 

The  price  for  the  photos  and  lamina- 
tion on  the  I .  D.  cards  will  be  $  I .  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  said  photos  were  be- 
ing added  because  students  have  had 
problems  getting  checks  cashed  at  local 
banks. 

The  $1  fee  does  not  fully  cover  the 
costs  of  the  photos.  Mrs.  Freipiotti 
said.  The  remainder  of  the  tab  will  be 
paid  by  the  Student  Government 
Association,  she  added. 

Developmental  lab  sets 
hours  for  student  help 

The  developmental  lab.  located  in 
room  405  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center,  has  established  its  hours  for 
the  spring  semester,  according  to 
Miss  Diana  L.  Frantz.  lab  supervisor. 

The  lab  will  be  open  8  a.m.  to  9 
p.m..  Monday  through  Thursday,  and 
8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  on  Fridays.  During 
this  time  help  will  be  offered  in  math, 
English,  and  accounting.  Help  in 
physics  will  be  available  in  the  evenings 
from  4  to  9. 


Monday  Night  Movies  Return! 

TONIGHT 
7:30  P.M. 

Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium 

Free  Admission  Tonight! 


The  Pack 

Abandoned  Pets  Turn  Wild 

and  Terrorize 

an  Island  Community 


Next  Week: 

The  Pawnbrokers^ 


Bulletin  Board 

Movie 
"The  Pack",  7;30  tonight.  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium.  $1  with 
student  ID. 

Rap 
Student. landlord   rap.   7   p.m.   tomorrow.   Klump   Academic  Center 
Cafeteria. 

Meetings 
Phi  Beta  Lambda,  3:45  p.m.  Wednesday.  Room  302.  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Inter  Club  Council,  4  p.m.  Thursday.  Room  1 32.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Canceled 
The  Outing  Club  Toboggan  Party  scheduled  for  tomorrow,  has  been  cancel- 
ed until  further  notice. 

Swimming 
Swimming,  YWCA,  7  to  8  p.m.  Thursday. 

Dance 
Outing  Club.  8-12  p.m.  Wednesday.  Lair,  Fee. 

Sporls 

Varsity 

Men's  basketball  vs.  College  of  Misericordia,  home.  8  p.m..  Tuesday. 
Wrestling  vs.  Bucks  County  Community  College,  away,  6  p.m..  Wednes- 
day. 

Men's  basketball  vs.  Lycoming  College  Junior  Varsity,  away.  7  p.m.. 
Thursday. 

Men's  basketball  vs.  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  away.  8 
p.m..  Thursday. 

Women's  basketball  vs.  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  away,  6 
p.m..  Friday. 

Wrestling  vs.  Penn  State  University,  Dubois  Campus,  away.  7:30  p.m.,  Fri- 
day. 

Intramural 

Roster  deadline  for  volleyball,  noon,  Wednesday. 

Volleyball  season  begins,  women's  and  co-ed  teams,  next  Monday. 

Volleyball  season  begins,  men's  teams,  next  Tuesday. 

Bowling  roster  deadline,  noon,  next  Wednesday. 

LAST  DAY 
Last  day  to  drop  with  70  percent  relund.  Friday 


FOR  SALE 

Nice  boolfcase.  48  Inches  wide.  44  inches 
iiigli.  Shelves  tor  large,  average,  and  small 
books.   Inquire  Uncle  Tom's,  1207  W.  4th  St. 


Wascher's 

Chiropractic 

Center  of  Life 

J^^ 

David  G  Wascher 

K^' 

Chiiopractoi 

m 

1905  Mill  Une 

Williamspoit,  Pa. 

Phone (717) 326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 

We  Buy  and  Sell 
Mnni  P  Used  Albums 

MUSHROOM 

J29  Hepburn  St 
Williamsport.  Pa,       322-4451 
Open  al  II  00  am  daily 
Gifts  Jewelry  Euphoric  Devices 


oaiL€KRrce 

-6- 

I 

6  W.  Fourth  St 

Williamsport 

322-8066 


X-Country  Ski  Rentals 
Ski  Packages  $89 

Pine  Creek  Ski  Rentals 

Waterville  Store 

847-3241 

Daii^RRpice 


Clllo's 
Oollege   (corner 

CIILO'S  SPECIAL  SERVICE: 

Phone  322-1321. 

Call  ahead  foi  take-out  oideis. 

We  will  ha»e  oidei  ready  loi  you  lo  pick  up. 

Hours:  7  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Restauiant/Snack  Bat 

Open  for  Breakfast: 

7  a.m. 

Hrfiihfasl  Sened  'lit 
I()::i0<i.m. 


SPOTLIGHTing  the  70s        see  Page  s 


(  THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE       ) 


e^EtflilJBCJt? 


The  "special  ch 
Neale  Winnerl 


llcrarions.   (Phnlo  courtesy 


Student  radio  station 
needs  trustees'  okay 


Radio  siaiion  WWAS.  the  College 
sialion,  began  lesling  FM  broadcasling 
on  Friday,  Dec.  14,  according  lo  Clif- 
ford C.  Horlon,  advisor. 

Horlon  said  the  sialion  was  on  the 
air  for  approximately  15  minutes  bet- 
ween 4  and  5  p.m.  for  initial  testing. 

The  Dec.  14  date  will  be  used  to 
choose  the  winner  lor  the  "Guess  the 
Day"  contest  begun  last  semester. 

Council  sets 
skate  party 

By  Brian  Rippey 

Of  TheSPOTIK.HTSIaff 

An  upcoming  rollerskating  parly 
was  discussed  at  last  Tuesday's  In- 
lerclub  Council  meeting. 

The  meeling  was  held  in  Room  132. 
Klump  Academic  Center,  with  very 
tew  club  representatives  in  attendance. 

Atr^ndance  was  discussed  by  the 
group  present.  The  group  felt  that 
clubs  which  did  not  participate  in 
council  meetings  should  not  be  tunded 
by  the  council.  The  matter  will  be 
taken  to  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director  ot 
student  activities  and  placement,  ihc 
group  decided. 

The  council  planned  a  rollerskating 
party  for  March  11  at  Skateland.  The 
council  voted  to  gel  a  band  --preferably 
the  band  it  had  for  the  Halloween  par- 
ly: "Myth". 

Also  discussed  were  a  bus  trip  lo 
Hershey  Park  in  May  and  the  leader- 
ship conference  at  Crystal  Lake  in 
February. 


of  the  . 

chosen  when  the  station  receives  of- 
ficial clearance  from  the  Board  of 
Trustees  to  begin  FM  operation,  Hor- 
lon said. 

A  proposal  was  submitted  by  Hor- 
lon to  the  Board  of  Trustees  and  will 
hopefully  be  brought  up  and  approved 
at  the  February  Trustees  meeting,  he 
said. 

Testing  continues  to  "iron  out  the. 
gliches  [bugs]"  in  the  system  so  it  will 
be  ready  for  operation  when  the  of- 
ficial clearance  comes,  Horlon  said. 

According  to  Horlon,  the  station  is 
in  a  period  of  transition  now,  with  13 
new  students  who  have  to  be  trained 
before  they  can  go  on  the  air. 

The  station  now  operates  from  I  to  9 
p.m.  daily  on  the  closed-circuit  system, 
but  "as  more  and  more  first  year 
students  are  ready  lo  go  on  the  air,  the 
hours  will  be  expanded  accordingly," 

(Coniinueri  on  favc  si 


Health  week 
will  feature 
films,  talk 


^ 


Weather:  blessing 
for  campus  builders 


By  (iail  Thompson 

Of  rhc  SI'dll  K.lll  MatI 

Although  winter  weather  ot  late  has 
been  unkind  to  snow  lovers,  it's  been 
"a  real  blessing"  for  the  college's 
building  program,  according  to  James 
().  Tule.  dean  of  secondary  vocational 
programs  and  executive  assistant  in  ilic 
president. 

"The  weather's  been  very  good  lo 
us,"  he  said.  It  has  allowed  all  founda- 
iion  and  "pier  work"|concrete  work) 
lo  be  completed,  and  it  has  also  allow- 
ed all  underground  work,  such  as  the 
installation  of  water  systems  to  be 
done,  he  added. 

More  importantly,  however,  the 
mild  days  have  allowed  crews  to  com- 

Photographer 
to  talk  at  lunch 

BrII  Clemenls,  prolessional 
photographer,  will  speak  on 
phoiography  at  the  next  session  of 
"Vour  Own  Hag",  the  luncheon 
Icciure-discussion  series  held  at  the 
College,  according  lo  Dr.  Richard  M. 
Sweeney,  director.  Division  of  Com- 
munications, Humanities,  and  Social 
Sciences, 

Clements,  owner-operator  of 
Clements  Studios  in  South 
Williamsport,  will  speak  at  noon  this 
Friday  in  Room  415,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Clements  holds  many  awards  for 
phoiography  as  adjudicated  by  the 
Pennsylvania  Professional  Pho- 
tographers Association  and  the  Nor- 
theast Pennsylvania  Professional 
Photographers  Association. 

Previously,  Clements  was  a  profes- 
sional news  photographer  and  worked 
with  local  and  regional  newspapers. 

He  is  a  member  ot  the  advisory  com- 
mittee for  the  Northeast  Pennsylvania 
Professional  Photographers  Associa- 
tion. He  has  served  as  president  of  the 
group.  He  also  has  held  positions  «ith 
Ihc  slale  orcani/alion. 

Ihc  American  Cancer  Society  \\M 
present  two  films  today  in  the  Bardo 
Gym  Health  Class  to  open  Health 
Week.  Breast  .Self  Examination  will  be 
shown  at  1 1  a.m.  and  2  p.m.  and  Testi- 
cle Self  Examination  will  be  presented 
at  9  a.m.  and  noon,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  activities  assis- 
tant. 

Tomorrow,  diabetes  screening  tests 
will  be  given  in  the  Lair  as  Health 
Week  continues. 

Blood  pressure  and  cholesterol  tests 
will  be  uuen  in  Room  W\.  Klump 
A^  ■■•i-miL-  Cenlci      siuilails  nuisl  sniii 


picie  roof  work  on  the  welding  facility. 

Dean  Tule  explained  that  getting  the 
facility  under  roof  now  permits  indoor 
svork  lo  be  done.  Pouring  lloors,  in- 
stalling plumbing  and  heating,  and 
electrical  work  is  being  done. 

Described  as  "basic"  without 
"trills",  the  welding  facility  will  be 
"the  finest  in  the  East",  Dean  Tule 
commented. 

"The  majority  of  dollars  were  spent 
in  relation  to  student  and  cdueational 
needs,  and  also  in  energy 
conservation,"  he  said 

In  an  effort  to  conserve  energy,  the 
welding  facility  employs  rather  "com- 
plicated and  sophisticaled"  heating 
and  ventilating  equipment,  he  added. 

Besides  "extra  attention  to  insula- 
tion needs",  the  architect  "designed  a 
heat  recovery  unit  in  the  exhaust 
system,"  Dean  Tule  said. 

rhc  unit  collects  heal  in  the  exhaust 

«  „ni,„m;l  i>i:  I'urr  Hi 

Investment 
Club  to  meet 

The  first  meeting  of  the  Investment 
Club  lor  this  Spring  semester  will  be 
held  Wednesday,  Ian.  30,  in  Room  302 
of  the  Klump  Academic  Center,  accor- 
ding to  Andy  W.  Wentz,  club  reporter. 

Set  time  for  this  meeting  is  3:45  p.m. 
and  is  open  to  all  club  members,  Weniz 
said. 

The  Investment  club,  in  its  first  year 
of  existence,  was  formed  to  benefit 
members  in  their  efforts  to  learn  the 
best  ways  to  invest  money  and  become 
familiar  with  the  stock  market,  Wentz 
also  said. 

Phillip  C.  Brown,  from  Merrill 
Lynch  of  Williamsport,  will  be  the 
speaker  at  the  first  club  meeting, 
Wednesday.  Thomas  Leitzel.  club  ad- 
visor, said  that  Brown  speaks  frequent- 
ly at  Investment  club  meelings,  and 
that  Ihe  club  Irics  lo  engage  as  many 
speakers  as  possible 

up  at  any  ol  the  previous  events.  Room 
136  Klump  Academic  Center,  or  the 
Communications  Center. 

Thursday,  the  American  Heart 
Association  will  present  an  educational 
film  that  will  be  shown  at  10  and  11 
a.m.  and  I  and  2  p.m.  They  also  will 
show  a  film  on  exercising  and  diet  in 
relation  with  the  heart  at  noon. 

Ron  E.  Thompson,  biology  pro- 
fessor at  the  College  will  lecture  on 
VD.      Thompson    will    show    a   slide 

prcsenuilion  and  hold  ,i  qiifslicin  and 
,ins«cr  period,  Mrs    1  rciiiiolli  s.nj 


-VIEWPOINT- 


Whadd'yo 
say.  .  . 

Do  you  think  the 
United  States 
should  drop  out 
of  the  1980  Sum- 
mer Olympics 
because  of  the 
Soviet  invasion  of 
Afghanistan? 


John  A.  Preston 


Ron  E.  Daugherty 


Becky  M.  Reeder 


Photos  and  Interviews 

by 

Jack  Rlckert 

John  A  Pteslon.  of  Canton,  electronics. "No.  I 
don't " 

Martin  A  Devine.  ol  Scranlon.  ad  arl,  "II  Russia 
IS  going  to  use  their  mililary  strength  I  Ihink 
something  should  be  done,  other  than  using 
military  action  " 

Becky  M  Reeder.  of  Williamsporl,  ad  arl:"No, 
because  il  has  been  a  tradition  " 

Ron  E    Daugherly,  of  Williamsporl,  general 
studies,"!  think  Ihey  shpuld    Definitely  " 

Jody  M  Bailey,  of  Glen  Rock. 
broadcasling;"No.  because  ol  the  athletes  but  in 
a  way  I  feel  we  should." 


Jody  M.  Bailey 


Martin  A.  Devine 


Danger  spot 

Three  parking  spaces  in  front  of  the 
Visitor/Faculty  parking  lol  next  to  the  Klump 
Academic  Cenlet  pose  a  dangerous  visual 
obstacle  to  drivers 

Cars  coming  out  of  Hadley  Street  onto  West 
Third  Street  are  blinded  to  oncoming  traffic  by 
parked  cars 

These  three  parking  spaces  should  be 
eliminated  to  allow  better  visibility  ol  westbound 
traffic  and  to  alert  Ihem  to  you. 

Even  pedestrians  can  almost  be  run  into  before 
being  seen 

Parking  though  somewhat  scattered  around 
campus,  can  be  found 

The  loss  ol  three  parking  spaces  for  the  safety 
of  laculty,  students  and  visitors  is  a  small  price  to 
pay 


From  My  Desk 

By  Cindy  IVI.  Snook 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Tm  impressed  to  see  the  construction  on  Ihe 
College  campus  Improvements  are  being  made 
everywhere  to  facilitate  students  and  conserve 
energy  However,  there  is  one  matter  which  I 
think  should  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  the 
Board 

What  about  sidewalks'  Especially  those  bet- 
ween Ihe  Klump  Academic  Center  and  the  Lair 
There  are  only  sidewalks  on  one  side  of  the  street, 
even  though  students  use  both  sides  to  walk  back 
and  forth  On  the  side  of  the  street  with  sidewalks, 
Ihere  are  cracks,  holes,  loose  gravel,  and  lots  of 
mud 

Thanks  are  in  order  to  those  responsible  for 
bringing  the  college  new  and  remodeled  buildings: 
but  what  about  doing  something  to  aid  our  treks  to 
and  from  them'? 


SPOTLIGHT 


Member  ot  The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 
and  ot  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Association 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 
The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  thtoughoul  Ihe  academic 
yeat,  excepl  lor  college  vacalions,  by  (ournalism  and  olhet  m- 

Ollice: 
Room  7. 
lump  AcHdemtc  Center  /7o^ 


The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 


Features  and 
Editorial  Page  Editor 

John  F    Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Chief  Photographer 

Timothy  A   Toth 

Advertising  Representative 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexei 

Michael  T    I  ekiles 


Telepho 
(717)  326-3761 


Production  ! 
Robert  J  Al 
Steele.  Gail 


s  issue    John  F,  Zelewicz, 
a  M   Apker,  Leslie  M.  Rogei 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J   Cafdene 

Lana  M    Apker 

Robert  J    Allen 

John  L    Rickerl 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Leslie  M    Rogers 

Trudy  M    Shtvely 

Cindy  M    Snook 

Larry  G   Steele 

Robert  E    Thomas 

Contributing  Writer 

Kim  A    Steele 

Faculty  Advisor 

Anthony  N   CiMo 


-VIEWPOINT- 


Why  do  nnany 

students  get 

mono,  flu? 

Editor's  Note  The  following  column  is 
provided  by  Dietetic  Tecnnician  students 
ot  Ihe  College  Opinions  expressed  rnay 
or    may    not    retted    opinion    ol    this 


Health  and  fitness  is  the  vogue 
topic  of  the  day  We  students  are 
sure  we  know  all  the  answers  in 
caring  for  ourselves.  Why  is  it 
then,  that  75  percent  of  College 
students  will  have 

mononucleosis,  90  percent  will 
suffer  with  flu  symptoms,  and 
have  at  least  two  colds  this 
winter  Is  this  accepted  as  norm'? 
Does  this  have  to  be'' 

Can  you  be  immune  to  colds'? 
Yes.  you  can  if  the  desire  is 
strong  enough  that  you  are  will- 
ing to  make  some  changes  If 
you're  a  cigaret  smoker  or  live 
With  a  smoker  your  chances  are 
slim  but  you  can  still  reduce  fre- 
quency and  severity  of  the  colds 
and  flu 

Here's  what  you  do 
Step  No  1 
Keep  your  resistance  high 
This  means  supplying  the  liver 
with  nutritious  ammunition  every 
3  to  4  hours-this  means  few  emp- 
ty    calorie     |sweel|     foods     or 
beverages    and     no    skipping 

(Continued  on  Page  71 


Conference 
free  to  thirty 

The  leadership  conlerence  is  tree, 
according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremioiti, 
student  activities  assistant.  The  inlor- 
mation  given  to  her  and  in  turn  relayed 
to  the  SPOTLIGHT  was  incorrect,  she 
said. 

A  deposit  of  $10  must  be  payed 
vvhen  signing  up,  she  said,  but  the 
money  will  be  refunded  when  the  bus 
arrives  at  Crystal  Lake.  30  students 
will  be  taken  on  the  trip  on  a  first 
come,  lirst  serve  basis. 

Furnished  on  the  trip  will  be 
transportation,  lodging,  and  food, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  The  bus  will  leave 
Bardo  Gym  at  4  p.m.,  Friday,  Feb.  8. 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  and  Student  Govern- 
ment Association  |SGA|  President 
Kimberly  A.  Dincher  have  planned  ac- 
tivities for  the  weekend. 

Leadership  roles,  assertive  training, 
community  skills,  student  apathy  and 
burnout  prevention  will  be  discussed  at 
the  conferences.  The  SGA  and  staff 
and  faculty  will  lead  the  meetings.  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said. 

Aside  from  the  meetings,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said,  students  will  have  time 
to  enjoy  outdoor  activities  as  well. 

Skiing-cross  country  and  downhill, 
ice  skating,  and  hiking  are  a  few  of  the 
outdoor  activities  offered  at  Crystal 
Lake,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  Students 
may  bring  their  own  equipment  or  rent 
it  at  the  lodge,  she  added. 

The  bus  will  return  to  the  College 
Sunday  afternoon,  Feb.  10.  Agendas 
will  be  given  to  the  first  30  people  who 
sign  up  at  the  Communications  Center, 
Klump  Academic  Center.  Mrs, 
Fremiotti  said. 

PBL  booksale 
ended  last  week 

The  Phi  Beta  Lambda  [PBLj 
booksale  ended  last  week.  Andy  W. 
Wentz,  PBL  president,  urges  students 
who  had  books  for  sale  lo  go  to  the 
PBL  office.  Room  333,  to  collect  their 
money  and/or  unsold  books. 

The  first  meeting  of  PBL  was  held 
last  Wednesday,  Jan.  2J,  at  4  p.m. 
Wentz  stated  that  applications  for 
membership  would  be  available  at  the 
PBL  office  all  this  week. 

Wentz  wished  to  remind  students  of 
the  PBL  raflle  that  began  last  Wednes- 
day, Jan.  23.  Tickets  will  be  available 
for  50  cents  apiece  from  any  PBL 
member  or  at  the  PBL  office.  Room 
333,  until  the  drawing  date,  Friday, 
Feb.  8.  First  prize  will  be  $100;  second 
prize, $50;  and  third  and  fourth  prizes 
will  be  $25. 


Officers 
elected  by 
hygienists 

The  junior  American  Dental 
Hvgienisis  Association  (JADHA)  has 
elected  new  officers  for  1980  and  WSl, 
according  to  Mrs.  Davie  J.  Nestarick, 
dental  hygiene  instructor. 

Elected  were: 

Kay  A.  Adelson,  president;  Penny 
L.  Liddic,  vice  president;  Susan  D. 
OIney  and  Leslie  A.  Araldi.  class 
representatives;  Deborah  A.  Hetzen- 
dorf,  secretary;  Kelly  L.  Durkin, 
treasurer;  and  Laura  E.  Mahon,  stu- 
dent government  representative. 

lADHA  is  planning  two  projects, 
said  Mrs.  Nestarick.  The  first  project 
will  be  during  Children's  Dental 
Health  Week,  Feb.  4  through  8.  On 
Feb.  4,  all  dental  hygiene  students  will 
go  to  local  school  districts  and  give 
presentations  in  elementary  school 
classrooms. 

The  second  project  is  a  table  presen- 
tation planned  by  the  returning 
students  to  represent  the  College  at  the 
State  Dental  Hygiene  meeting  Irom 
Mav  10  to  13  in  Pittsburgh. 

Copier  usage 
Increasing 

Mrs.  Judith  L.  Demko,  coordinalor 
of  duplicating  and  mail  services,  has 
estimated  the  AB  Dick  1500  copier 
machine  at  the  College  reproduces  ap- 
proximately three  and  one-half  million 
copies  a  year.  For  the  78-79  fiscal  year, 
3.418.904  copies  were  recorded  to  be 
reproduced,  she  said. 

Miss  Linda  L  Sindlinger,  operator 
of  the  1500  copier,  works  from  8:15 
a.m.  to  4:15  p.m.  each  week-day  to 
produce  from  10.000  lo  15.000  copies  a 
day. 

The  copier  is  starting  its  fifth  year  at 
the  College,  according  to  Mrs.  Demko. 
with  volume  increasing  each  year. 

Usage  becomes  especially  heavy  at 
the  beginning  and  the  end  of  each 
semester,  she  said. 

Mrs.  Demko's  records  also  show  the 
Math-Science  department  requires  the 
most  use  of  the  machine,  with  the 
Allied  Health  department  the  second 
heaviest  user. 

The  Army  Finance  Center  at  Fort  Benja- 
min Harrison.  Ind..  is  the  largest  US- 
military  building  aside  from  The  Penta- 


B  &  M  Diner 

1170W.  4thSt. 


Open  24  hours 


322-9106 


/ 


We  Buy  and  Sell 
M  n  nip  Used  Albums 

MUSHROOM 


tZ?445l 


l.''4  llt'pbutn  .SI 
Willisinspoit.  Pa 
Olien  al  II  00  a  m  ilaily 

Gilts  letweliyEuphoiic  Devices 


World  of  Work 


/i.a.ii-  t"<  "  "''■'  "/  "  '">' 


,irr  i„„n,lr,l   In    I  mill.   J     ll„i,:s. 


,:l,„.  CM-i 
,l,„iM  In-  ,. 


;;l  In 


,./(,. 


CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 

Business  Accountant  --  Eberle  Tanning  Co..  360  Church  St..  Westfield.  Pa. 
16950.    Apply  Floridan  Hayes,  plant  manager.   Call  814-367-2211.  ext.  5587. 
Draftsman,  mechanical  and  engineering  --  Deluxe  Homes  of  Pa..  Inc.. 
Ninth  and  Oak  Streets,  Berwick,  Pa.  18603. 

Pressman  --  K-B  Printing  Inc.,  1006  W.  College  Ave.,  State  College,  Pa. 
16801.    Apply  Vohnr  Barr,  owner,  or  call  8I4-238-8445. 

Welder  -  Borg  Warner,  P.  O.  Box  1592,  York.  Pa.  17405.  Apply  Allen  Liv- 
ingston or  call  717-846-7890. 

Estimator  Building  Construction  ;-  Crider  Construction  Co.,  P.  O.  Box 
150,  Lewislown,  Pa.  17044.  Apply  Roy  Crider,  president,  or  call  717-242-251 1 
Computer  Operator  -  Weis  Markets  Inc.,  1000  South  Second  St.,  Sunbury, 
Pa.  17801. 

Tool  Design  Person  -  Emporium  Specialties  Co.  Inc.,  P.  O.  Box  65, 
Austin,  Pa.  16720.  Apply  James  Moore  or  call  814-647-8661.  Entry  level 
positions. 

Machinists  and  draftpersons  -  Emporium  Specialties  Co.,  Inc.,  P.  O.  Bos 
65,  Austin.  Pa.  16720.  Apply  James  Moore  or  call  814-647-8661 .  Entry  level 
positions. 

Electronics  Technician  --  Computer  Consoles  Inc.,  97  Humboldt  St.. 
Rochester.  N.V.  14609.  Apply  Warren  R.  Howard,  personnel  representative. 
Person  should  be  knowledgeable  about  digital  equipment. 

Camp  director  -  Group  Leader,  Group  Aid  and  Co('k  --  Food  and 
Hospitality  and  Forestry  graduates  should  apply  to  Allegheny  National  Forest, 
P.O.  Box  847,  Warren,  Pa.  16365.  Camp  Directors  and  Group  Leaders  work 
in  Sheffield  Ranger  District,  Group  Aid  in  Sheffield,  Marienville,  Bradford, 
and  Ridgeway  Ranger  Districts.  Cook  works  in  Sheflield  Ranger  District. 
PART-TIME  JOBS 
Babysitter  -  Two  children  from  4  p.m.  to  3  a.m.  Weekend  work  also.  Call 
326-4263  between  noon  and  4  p.m. 

Babysitter  -  Three-monlh-old  baby  and  five-year-old.  Garden  View  or 
Newberry.    Call  323-3038. 

F'ast  Foods  -  Local  pizza  place.  Apply  in  person,  Ned-Zip's,  169  W.  Third 
St. 

Daytime  waiter  or  waitress  -  Best  Western  Inn.  Apply  in  person.  Route  15, 
South  Williamsport. 

Cook  -  Evening  work.    Call  326-1596, 
Fast  Food  -  Midday  and  evening  shifis,  liill-timc.  Apply  Arby's  Roast  Beef 
Restaurant,  East  Third  Street.    No  phone  calls. 

UA  Movies  --  Lycoming  Mall.    Apply  at  theater. 

Olher  pan-lime  joh  mjormalion  available  in  Room  209.  Mump  Academic 
Cenier. 

ON  CAMPUS  RECRUITING 
Oliver  of  Ha/elton,  Pa.,  will  be  on  campus  tomorrow,  Jan.  29.    Being 
recruited  are  Engineer  Draftsmen,  Mechanical  Draftsmen,  Machinist  General, 
Tool  Designmen,  Toolmaking  Technicians,  and  Welders. 

Interested  May  graduates  should  attend  group  meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Cenier  Auditorium. 


Food  club  sells  meals 


The  Food  Service  Student  Organi?a- 
lion  prepares  quantity  food  meals  for 
$2.25  every  Monday  and  Wednesday 
evening  Irom  5:.30  to  6:30  p.m.  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  caleteria.  ac- 
cording lo  Rick  J.  Burick,  secretary. 
These  meals  are  open  to  all  students 
and  staff  members,  and  is  a  non-profit 
endeavor,  Burick  said. 

Burick  also  slated  that  each  club 
member  plans  one  of  the  dinner  menus 
under  the  guidance  ot  Ms.  Anne  R. 
Miglio.  advisor.     Most  of  the  recipes 


are  Ms.  Migho's.  Burick  said.  Fifieen 
to  20  students  prepare  the  meals  each 
night  in  Room  107. 

This  student  organi/aiion  does  more 
than  plan  meals,  however.  According 
to  Burick,  there  are  some  trips  planned 
for  members  this  Spring.  These  trips 
include  visits  to  Sea  World  and  Cedar 
Point  in  Ohio,  and  the  National 
Restaurant  Association  show  in 
Chicago,  Burick  had  no  dales  tor  these 
Irips  al  this  time. 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes         Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments  ^^^M^"~~u~~~~^P5(853 

'K?on?""'      fe       ONE'FRETrESSON        S 

•  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  ihr  Golden  Oiagon  luoociubs  g 

•  Self  Defense/ )u  Jitsu      Brhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  Lessong 
Classes  ^     g,  williamsport.  Lock  Haven,    g 

368-3295    %  or    MMtonVMCA^ g 


^^-i 


Peterson  awarded  three 
trophies    as    outstanding 
league  bowler  last  season 

<~>  MTn-s  ever.     Smci;  ihcn,   I'dccson  has 


David  A.  Pcierson  rccenlly  was 
awarded  three  irophics  for  his 
achievemenis  in  intramural  bowling 
last  semester.  Peterson  won  the 
awards  for  high  single  game,  high  two 
game  total,  and  high  average. 

A  native  resident  ol  Athens,  Peter- 
son began  bowling  in  league  competi- 
tion at  the  age  of  12.  At  that  time  he 
averaged  112,  he  said. 

As  Peterson's  age  went  up  so  did  his 
average.  At  age  16  he  carried  a  160 
average.  He  was  bowling  in  a  summer 
and  winter  league. 

"Pete",  as  his  friends  call  him,  once 
bowled  a  290  in  league  competition. 
Last  year,  his  237  was  good  enough  to 
give  him  the  IM  high  game. 

In  the  series  he  bowled  his  29f). 
I'l-nrsoii   louikil   M:   1(11    his   lirsi   6(K) 


rolled  a  few  other  6(K)  series. 

Besides  bowling.  Peterson  also  plays 
tennis,  basketball,  and  the  guitar. 

Peterson  competed  in  the  Valley 
.laycecs  Tennis  Tournament  in  Sayre 
last  year.  In  singles  play.  Peterson 
finished  second  while  he  and  his  part- 
ner. Tim  Page,  took  first  place  in 
doubles. 

As  a  basketball  player  at  Athens 
High  School.  Pctcrsoti  played  at  Bardo 
Gym  as  a  junior  when  his  team  played 
l.ourdes  Regional  in  the  second  round 
of  the  district  playoffs.  He  played 
basketball  for  four  years  at  Athens. 

Peterson  says  the  key  to  his  success 
in  bowling  is  a  lot  of  practice  and  con- 
centration. He  is  looking  forward  to 
the  beginning  of  the  IM  bowling  season 


Wildcat  men's  basketball  squad 
loses  twice  in  weekend  games 


B>  .lack  Rickerl 

(II    I  In  M'dll  K.lll  Sfall 

The  Wildcat  men's  basketball  team 
dropped  two  games  on  the  weekend  of 
Jan.  18. 

On  the  I-riday  night,  they  were 
oulscored  bv  Philadelphia  Community 
College.  77-.'i9. 

Randy  L.  Jones,  business  manage- 
ment, was  the  high  scorer  with  15 
points.  Jones  also  hauled  down  9  re- 
bounds. 

John  F.  Gray,  carpentry  aiul 
building,  contributed  II  points,  and 
Len  R.  Maguire,  carpentry  arul 
building,  dished  out  4  assists. 

Odrick    and    Harrison    scored 

10  points  apiece  to  lead  Philadelphia. 

Ihc  Wildcats  were  downed  a,Bain 

Loggers 
looking 
for  members 

Gilbert's  Foam  Loggers  is  looking 
for  College  students  interested  in  play- 
ing on  an  ice  hockey  team.  According 
10  Lee  Gilbert,  who  is  the  team  sponsor 
and  also  the  goaltender,  the  team  is  a 
member  of  the  Susquehanna  Valley 
Men's  A-Lcaguc. 

The  team  has  been  in  operation 
around  5  to  7  years,  said  Gilbert-  It 
has  played  one  game  this  season,  a  6-4 
loss  to  Juniata.  With  any  luck,  he 
adds,  they  should  play  14  more.  The 
learn  presently  has  20  active  players. 

All  games  are  played  at  the  Sunbury 
Community  Rink.  In  addition  to  the 
A-League,  there  is  also  a  B-League  and 
a  Junior  League.  The  number' to  call 
lor  inlorinalion  is  7I7-JW-77.18. 


Saturday  night.  S2-69.  by  Lock  Haven 
State's  junior  varsity  squad, 

Maguire  led  the  team  with  18  points 
and  7  assists,  Jones  pumped  in  1 1 
points  and  ripped  down  LS  rebounds  lo 
aid  the  Wildcat  eflori, 

Wasiak  led  Lock  Haven  Stale  with 
19  points. 

The  Wildcats'  next  home  game  is 
Ihis  Wednesday  al  8  '  p,m 
when  they  meet  Northampton  Counl.\ 
Comnumilv  College. 

Conference 


Varsity  Club 
plans  meeting 

The  Varsity  Club  will  meei  ai  4  p.m. 
lomorrow  in  the  Bardo  Ciyni.  All  var- 
sny  alhlcies  should  allend. 

Plans  tor  ihe  alhlelic  awaids  ban- 
quci  will  be  discussed. 

Also  10  be  discussed  will  be  ihc  pur- 
chase of  jackeis  for  varsily  alhleles. 
The  election  of  ot'ficers  will  also  lake 
place  al  ihe  meeiing.  according  lo  Don- 
na risasscr,  a  compuier  science  major 
(rom  Cocolamus  and  president  of  the 
club. 

The  meeiing  will  be  held  on  the  lirsi 
lUH>r  of  ihe  Bardo  Gym. 

Five  students 


honors  three  ^m  IM  titles 


ENERGY. 

We  can't  afford 

to  waste  it. 


Three  members  of  the  women's  field 
hockey  team  have  been  chosen  for  the 
Women's  Field  Hockey  Conference 
Selection,  according  lo  field  hockey 
coach  Marti  Bryant. 

They  are  Cathy  J.  Leitzel,  a  first 
year  computer  science  major.  Janet  M. 
Kraemer  and  Alice  M.  Kennedy,  both 
first  year  nursing  students. 

Leitzel  and  Kraemer  play  right  and 
left  inner  in  the  front  line  and  Kennedy 
plays  the  position  of  fullback. 

Bryant  said  the  players  were  inform- 
ed of  their  honors  the  last  day  of  last 
semester.  Bryant  also  noted  Kraemer 
is  one  of  the  team  captains. 

The  members  of  the  selection  are 
chosen  by  four  coaches  in  the  division. 
Each  coach  of  each  team  in  the  division 
is  permitted  to  submit  up  to  six  can- 
didates. 

The  colleges  included  in  the  selec- 
tion are  Bucks  County  Community 
College,  Montgoinery  County  Com- 
munity College.  Northampton  County 
Community  College  and  Williamsport 
Area  Community  College.  The 
coaches  that  selected  were  from  these 
four  schools. 

Bryant  said  this  year  was  a  much 
better  year  for  the  College  in  Ihe 
"Selection",  She  staled  last  year  only 
one  student  from  the  College  was 
chosen. 

Each  girl  received  a  certificate 
acknowledging  her  accomplishmeni 


Five  new  champions  were  crowned 
in  the  intramural  wrestling  tourna- 
ment, according  to  Thomas  G,  Gray, 
assistant  professor  of  physical  educa- 
tion and  intramural  director. 

The  tournament  was  held  December 
3  and  10  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

W'inners  were  James  A.  Hawkins, 
graphic  arts.  145-150;  Greg  L."  Allen, 
compuier  science.  155-165:  Larry  A. 
Drake,  carpentry  construction. 
165-170;  Steven  D.  Cherry,  service  and 
operation  of  heavy  equipment. 
175-185.  and  Donald  H.  Milne,  service 
and  operation  of  heavy  equipment, 
unlimited. 

Twenty-lhree  wrestlers  signed  up  tor 


the  tou 


t.  Gr 


'  said. 


Alpha  Omega 
skating  party 

Alpha  Omega  Fellow  ship  is  sponsor- 
ing an  ice  skaling  session  lomorrow 
night  at  the  Sunbury  Ice  Rink.  Admis- 
sion is  free  lo  College  students  with 
I.D.  cards.  Interested  students  should 
sign  up  at  the  Communications  Cenler. 
Klump  Academic  Cenler. 

The  bus  for  ice  skating  will  leave 
Bardo  Gym  al  6  p.m.  and  will  return 
about  10  p.m..  according  to  James  V. 
Phillips.  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship 
president. 


Wresding 
team  ups 
record,  5-1 

The  Wildcat  wrestling  team  upped 
lis  record  lo  5-i  with  an  impressive 
37-13  win  over  the  Bucks  County  Com- 
munity College.  The  match  was  held 
Wednesday.  Jan.  23,  in  the  Bucks  gym. 
Pinning  their  opponents  for  the  Col- 
lege team  were  Michael  E,  Maneval. 
142,  Eric  S.  Haser,  150,  and  Anthony 
A.  Tessiiore,  167.  Winning  by  major 
decision  was  Bruce  A.  Rigard,  134. 
while  Terry  C.  Rosini,  177,  won  by 
decision.  Accepting  forfeits  were 
Terry  L.  Schwab.  118.  and  Thomas  S. 
Husler.  190. 

The  team  also  had  matches  on  Fri- 
day and  Saturday.  Jan  IR  and  19.  Fri- 
day the  College  took  on  a  tough  oppo- 
nent in  Keystone  Junior  College,  losing 
by  a  36-!0  score.  Haser  was  the  only 
wrestler  taking  a  decision  for  the; 
Wildcat  team.  Maneval  fought  to  a 
draw,  and  Rigard  was  awarded  a 
forfeit. 

The  team  had  better  luck  on  Satur- 
day as  it  downed  the  Ogontz  Campus 
of  Penn  State  by  a  30-18  count.  Pick- 
ing up  falls  for  the  Wildcat  team  were 
Schwab.  Haser.  and  Tessitore. 
Schwab's  pin  was  only  13  seconds  into 
the  match.  Rigard  and  Rosini  won  by 
decision,  while  Maneval  was  given  a 
forfeit. 

The  next  competition  for  the  team 
will  be  the  York  Campus  of  Penn 
Stale.  The  match  will  be  Wednesday, 
Jan.  30.  in  York. 

Advisor  says  Circle  K 
open  to  all  students 

Circle  K  is  a  College  organizalion 
designed  for  students  who  are  in- 
terested in  college  and  community  ser- 
vice. 

According  to  Harvey  H.  Kuhns.  Jr., 
advisor   to   Circle   K.    membership   is 
open    to   publicly-oriented    students. 
Kuhns    said    turther    details    will    be 
released  at  a  later  dale. 


SI'OTI  K.HT  l'a(ic 


SPOTLIGHTing 

the  70s 


re\(  b>  Cindy  M.  Snool< 
lllusrrations  h>  Michiiel 


The  IM70\  were  a  decade  of  inflation,  energy  shortages,  fashion 
jeans, fast  foods,  and  women's  lib.  Through  il  all,  comedy  presented 
itself  in  "wild  and  cra/y"  ways,  bringing  humor  lo  black  and  white,  col- 
or screen,  and  the  dinner  (able. 

Modern  humor  is  everywhere  from  magazines  to  bathroom  walls,  and 
recalling  the  seventies  wouldn't  be  complete  without  a  glimpse  of  what 
and  wh<»  il  was  that  made  us  laugh. 

Saturday  nights  became  live  as  puppets  became  "Muppels."  The 
"Peanuts"  went  to  television,  "Little  Orphan  Annie"  went  lo  Broad- 

Kthnic  jokes  were  lold  about  everybody,  "Short  People"  were 
nobody,  imitators  imitated  everybody. 

There  was  "Three's  Company",  "Three's  A  Crowd",  and  reruns  of 
the  "Three  Slooges". 

There  were  jokes  about  elephants,  dead  babies,  and  sex. 

"Animal  House  started  food  fights  across  the  nation.  The  nation 
fought  back  with  Barbara  Wallers. 

"Make  Me  l/augh"  did  just  that;  and  so  did  George  Carlin. 
Monty  Python's  Circus  was  flying  while  George  Burns  went  "In 
Style  ". 

The  list  could  go  on  and  on.  Comedy  has  become  an  inevitable  part 
of  our  society.   We  talk  about  il,  we  sing  about  il,  and  we  write  about  il. 

As  the  '80's  begin,  there  seems  lo  be  crisis  everywhere.  In  looking 
back  on  the  past-gone  decade,  however,  confidence  and  hope  can  be 
gained. 

Horace  Walpole.  in  Letter  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  said.  "The  world  is  a 
comedy  lo  those  that  think,  a  tragedy  to  those  who  feel." 

So  for  "those  thai  think"  and  "those  who  feel"  relief  is  in  sight  for 
the  tragedies  of  life. 

Carol  Burnell  is  on  at  3:30  p.m..  M.A.S.H.  at  4:30.  and  J(»hnny  Car- 
son on  the  "Tonight  Show"  at  II.  Comic  strips  are  usually  found  in 
every  daily  paper,  and  there  are  morning  cartoons  every  Saturday. 

In  remembering  comedy  of  the  7f)'s  and  anticipating  that  of  the  8U's 
we  can  only  keep  in  mind  the  words  of  Willard  Smith  when  he  said." The^ 
days         that         make         us         happy         make         us         wise." 


O 


M 


E 


D 


"wild  and  crazy" 


J 


SPOT!  lOHl 


Yearbook   ^^^^"^^  writing  Agribusiness  students 
shaping  up 


The  yearbook  staff  currently  is 
working  toward  its  first  deadline,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Kathryn  Marcello, 
yearbook  advisor. 

Included  in  the  package  that  will  be 
sent  to  the  yearbook  company  to  meet 
the  first  deadline  will  be  pictures  of 
1980  graduates,  of  faculty,  and  of  ad- 
ministrative personnel. 

The  plans  for  the  layout  of  the  year- 
book are  currently  being  discussed  by 
the  staff,  Mrs.  Marcello  said. 

The  dedication  -  which  can  be  voted 
upon  by  students  who  slop  at  the  Com- 
munications  Center  in  Klump 
Academic  Center  --  will  be  finalized  by 
the  staff. 

Besides  the  pictures  of  1980 
graduates  and  staff,  the  yearbook  will 
include  photos  of  club  activities,  sports 
events,  and  commencement. 

The  yearbook,  to  be  published  m 
.lune,  will  contain  over  300  pictures, 
Mrs.  Marcello  said. 

Pfiololaking  of  graduates 
for  yearbook  begins  today 

Mrs.  Marcello  also  said  the  taking 
of  yearbook  pictures  of  May  graduates 
which  was  to  be  last  week  will  begin  to- 
day. The  pictures  will  be  taken  from  9 
a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  today  through  Wednes- 
day. 

Today's  pictures  will  be  taken  in  the 
student  lounge  of  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Tomorrow,  the  photographer  will  be 
in  the  George  H.  I'arkes  Building. 

On  Wednesday,  the  photographer 
will  be  on  the  Earth  Science  Campus, 
Mrs.  Marcello  said. 


'Short '  fire  alarm 
was  part  of  test       \ 

The  piercing  ring  of  a  fire  alarm 
echoed  through  the  halls  of  Klump 
Academic  Center  last  Thursday  morn- 
ing, creating  confusion  for  students 
and  faculty  alike. 

According  to  Lawrence  P.  Smcak, 
head  of  security,  the  fire  equipment 
was  being  tested  by  the  Canteen  Com- 
pany. The  alarm  was  tripped  a.s  part  of 
the  testing,  but  the  Company  neglected 
to  inform  the  faculty,  said  Smcak. 


Cillo's 

College 
Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 

Cilia  ',v  Special  Service: 


Open  for  Breakfast...?  a.m. 
BreakfaM  served  'III  10:30  a.m 

Hours: 
7  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 


will  be  taught 

A  resume  writing  workshop  will  be 
held  Tuesday,  Feb.  5  from  noon  to  1 
p.m.,  according  to  Martin  McCor- 
mick,  career  development  specialist. 

On  Kcb.  12  there  will  be  a  workshop 
on  the  subject  of  job  search  strategies. 
The  theme  of  the  workshop  will  be  how 
and  where  to  look  for  a  new  job.  The 
workshop  will  be  held  Irom  12  lo  1 
p.m. 

On  Feb.  19  there  will  be  a  workshop 
from  12  to  1  p.m 

On  Feb.  21.  there  will  be  a  resume 
writing  workshop  from  7  to  8  p.m. 

On  Feb.  26,  from  3  to  4  p.m.  there 
will  be  a  workshop  on  job  search 
strategies. 

For  more  informalion  contact  Mar- 
tin McCormick  in  the  Career  Develop- 
menl  Center. 


Last  week  to 
courses 


visit  State  Farm  Show 
Arena  in  Harrisburg 


drop 


This  IS  the  lasl  week  lo  drop  courses 
and  still  receive  a  60  percent  refund, 
according  to  Kalhryn  M.  Marcello, 
director  ot  student  records. 

Students  planning  to  drop  courses 
and  receive  this  refund  must  do  so  on 
or  before  Friday.  Feb.  I.  she  said. 

For  more  information  contact  the 
Records  Olficc  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center. 


By  .lackle  Cardene 

or  Ihr  SHOT!  I(,H  I  Mutf 

While  many  students  were  at  home 
on  vacation,  some  tburlh  and  second 
semester  agribusiness  students  were 
back  at  school.  According  to  Roger  D. 
Apple,  agribusiness  inslrucior.  some  ol 
his  students  went  lo  visil  ihe  State 
Farm  Show. 

The  show  was  held  Jan.  7  to  M  in 
the  Farm  Show  Arena  in  Harrisburg. 
The  students  attended  the  show  on  the 
ninth. 

Apple  said  the  group  spent  most  of 
its  lime  in  the  main  exhibition  building. 
While  they  were  there,  they  saw 
various  types  of  machinery  and 
agricultural  products  such  as  lertili/er. 
seeds,  and  silo  equipment. 

Dairy  equipment  and  breeding 
materials  for  livestock  were  also 
displayed  at  this  part  of  the  show. 

The  group  also  toured  the  livestock 
barn.  Shown  there  were  different 
breeds  of  dairy  cows,  beef  cows,  sheep, 
swine,  and  poultry. 

Demonstrations  on  Ihe  showing  and 
grooming  of  these  animals  were  also 
given. 

Apple  noted  that  in  the  small  arena  a 
swine  sale  took  place  and  that  a  dairy 
and  beef  show  were  also  held  in  the 
large  arena. 

The  group  also  stayed  lor  the  horse 
pull.   The  horse  pull  is  a  test  of  strength 


Studcnisofihe  building  Icchnolngles  division  wnrkid  on  I  nit  cmh  as  pari  of 
an  enerK>  conservation  project.  Construction  benan  in  ihc  I  all  '7V  semester 
and  will  continue  as  pari  of  an  industrial  program  of  the  College.  IPhoto 
courtesy  Neale  Winner.) 


Koiirlh  and  William  SI..  Williamsporl 


I  horse  team.  There  are  two  weight 
classes;  lightweight  and  hcavyweighi. 
Wcighis  are  placed  on  a  weight  truck 
and  are  continually  added  until  the 
team  cannot  pull  anymore. 

The  fourth  semester  students  who 
attended  the  show  are  Charles  J.  An- 
chor, of  New  Columbia;  Rose  Ann 
Masiantoni,  of  Philadelphia:  David  C. 
Williams,  of  Linden:  Dean  K.  James, 
of  Elizabethiown.  and  Andrea  R.  Har- 
ris, of  Watsontown. 

The  second  semester  students  who 
attended  are  Gary  E.  Truckenmiller.  of 
Waisonlown.  and  Robert  E.  Johnson. 
of  1  ock  Haven. 

Session  held 
last  Tuesday 

A  student  and  landlord  rap  session 
was  held  lasl  Tuesday  from  7  to  9  p.m. 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
cafeteria,  according  to  Charles  J. 
Haas,  Housing  coordinator. 

Attending  the  session  were  Dr. 
David  M.  Heiney,  Dean  of  Sludenl  and 
Career  Development. 

Also  attending  the  session  was  Miss 
Bonnie  Thompkins.  Representative 
Irom  the  Northern-Central  Landlords 
Association. 

One  of  Ihe  problems  discussed  was 
Ihe  forming  of  a  coalition  in  order  lo 
manage  housing  which  the  College  is 
hoping  to  put  up.  The  buildings  will  be 
constructed  by  local  contractors  and 
will  hopefully  accomodate  .WO  to  4110 
siudenls.  according  to  Haas. 

Another  problem  discussed  was  the 
lorming  of  a  College  operated  landlord 
association  in  order  lo  solve  some  of 
I  he  problems  between  landlords  and 
-.ludcnis. 

The  earliest  dated  skis  found  in 
Fenno-Scandian  bogs  have  been  dated 
to  c.  2500  B.C. 

I  rhf  \V Arc  cinema  (till)  presents. ..       i 

I  TONIGHT  I 

i  FRKE  ADMISSION        l 

I  7:30  P.M.  i 


Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium 


The 
Pawnbroker 


A  Jewish  pawnbroker, 

victim  of  Nazi  persecution. 

loses  all  faitli 

in  humanity 

Coining... 
Next  Monday  Night 

Dr.  Strangelove 

(Kree  Admissinnl 


Exhibits  to  feature  examples 
from  different  College  courses 


This  month,  the  window  evhibiis  in 
the  enirance  hall  ot  Klump  Academic 
Center  contain  examples  from  some  of 
the  Community  and  Continuing 
Education  courses  at  the  College. ac- 
cording lo  Mrs.  Nancy  Schick, 
secretary  at  (he  Learning  Resources 
Center. 

Each  month  a  different  exhibit  is 
shown  in  each  window,  said  Mrs 
Schick.  The  exhibits  are  arranged  by 
Mrs.  Schick  and  Neate  Winner 
structionat  coordinator  of  media  ser 
vices. 

The  January  exhibit  illustrates  Knit 
ting  and  Crochet,  Mrs.  Virginia  Pekar 
ski,  inslrucior;  Machine  Quilling  and 

Why  do...? 

tContmued  fiom  Page  21 

meals.  A  nutritious  evening  meal 

is  helpful 

Step  No  2 
Gel  adequate  rest     6  to  8 
hours  a  night 

Step  No  3 

Keep  a  container  of  water 
next  to  the  source  of  heat  in  your 
bedroom  A  gallon  plastic  clorox 
container  with  top  cut  off  gives 
good  evaporation  surface  without 
fear  of  rust  or  glass  breaking  pro- 
blems. 

Step  No  4 

Should  you  get  up  with  a  sore 
throat,  before  eating,  gargle  with 
(lidfull]  peroxide  This  kills 
bacteria  before  they  get  to  your 
lungs,  sinus  and  other  organs 
Additional  rewards  are  reduced 
chances  of  mononucleosis, 
reduction  of  harmful  bacteria  on 
Ihe  teeth,  and  it  helps  whiten 
teeth.  Tram  youngsters  to  gargle 
with  water  before  suggesting 
they  use  peroxide  Small 
amounts  swallowed  will  do  no 
more  harm  than  an  antibiotic 

Step  No  5 

Stay  away  from  over  the 
counter  internal  medications 
These  only  add  lo  the  bodies 
defense  load  If  there's  a  fever 
contact  a  Doctor  and  take  his 
prescribed  medications  as 
directed. 

Step  No  6 

If  your  head  feels  congested, 
especially  at  night  when  you 
need  the  rest,  pul  Ben  Gaye  on  a 
paper  hankie  or  night  clothes, 
cover  your  head  with  the  sheet 
and  breathe  deep  until  you  can 
breathe  comfortably 

l^ay  you  have  a  happier 
healthier  winter 

Watch  for  the  next  article  on 
health  by  Dietetic  technician 
students 


Applique.  Wendy  Weizel,  iiiMrucior: 
Baking  wiih  Whole  Grain  and  Honey, 
Mrs.  Anne  Klopp,  inslrucior;  Finan- 
cial Planning  and  Investing.  Phillip 
Brown,  instructor;  Creative  Writing, 
Herbert  Ertel,  instructor;  and 
Photography.  Robert  Gohres,  instruc- 
tor. 

In  the  left  window  there  is  an  exhibit 
from  Ihe  American  An  and  Apprecia- 
tion course.  Daman  Thompson,  in- 
structor. This  is  an  evening  course 
which  leaches  the  appreciation  of 
American  painting  and  sculpture  from 
the  colonial  period  to  about  the  I940's. 
The  exhibits  for  February  will  be 
Scenes  and  Decor  for  Food  Service, 
righi  window;  Advertising  An  sketches 
and  pen  and  inks,  left  window. 

Shoff  serves 
on  panel 

Thomas  Shoff  has  been  nominated 
to  serve  on  a  new  panel  called  "Insiiiu- 
lional  Vitality  and  Foresight." 

According  lo  Thomas  SholT.  ihc 
panel  will  meet  for  the  first  time  on 
January  31  at  5  p.m. 

According  lo  Shoff,  the  main  objec- 
tives of  the  group  are  to  look  into  the 
college  from  a  human  standpoint  and 
to  make  recommendations  that  will  af- 
fect change  for  the  belter  to  increase 
communication  between  the  faculty 
and  administration. 

Shoff  added  that  the  major  objec- 
tive is  lo  build  trust  and  confidence 
through  communication. 

Rice  IS  second  only  to  wheat  -- 
speaking  of  cereals  ~  in  the  quantity 
grown  and  used  as  human  food. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wasctier 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Lane 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (7171  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 

Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 

Finest  Selection 

of  Rolling  Papers  and  Smoking  Accessories 


Food  Service  '  " 
students  dine 
at  country  club 

Mrs.  Aniie  R.  Miglio.  advisor  lor 
the  Food  Service  Student  Organiza- 
tion, and  seven  students  aitended  a 
dinner  and  meeting  for  the  National 
Restaurant  Association  |NRA|  ai  the 
Antler's  Country  Club  on  Monday. 
Jan.  21.  according  to  Rick  J.  Burick, 
food  service  secretary.  Mrs.  Miglio  is  a 
member  of  the  NRA,  Burick  said. 

Burick  also  stated  that  the  dinner 
began  at  6:30  p.m.  and  was  attended 
by  70  lo  l(X)  local  and  regional 
restaurant  owners,  some  from  as  far 
away  as  Wilkes  Barre.  Information 
concerning  the  NRA  Chicago  show  to 
be  held  in  the  spring  (which  Food  Ser- 
vice students  plan  to  attend)  and  other 
national  news  was  exchanged  at  the 
meeting,  he  said. 

Food  Service  students  attended  the 
dinner  to  get  more  involved  in  their 
career  choice,  Burick  said.  The  follow- 
ing students  aitended  the  NRA  dinner: 

Rick  J.  Burick.  Bernard  H.  Halver- 
son,  Richard  L.  Kimble.  Robert  J. 
Sasani,  Ruth  L.  Rowe,  Carmi 
Deparasis.  and  Kevin  N.  Fazler. 

National  parks 
film  on  Wednesday 

"America's  Wonderlands:  National 
Parks"  will  be  shown  during  the  Films- 
Sandwiched-ln  program  at  noon  this 
Wednesday  in  the  Community  Room 
of  the  James  V.  Brown  Lit>rary  in 
downtown  Williamsport. 

The  program  is  open  to  the  public. 
Viewers    may    bring    their    lunch. 


High  school 
students  help 
with  project 

For  their  efforts  in  making  a 
special  chair  for  Floyd  Todd,  a  local 
man  disabled  by  multiple  sclerosis, 
building  trades  students  and  faculty  of 
the  College  were  recognized  in  recent 
area  newspaper  articles,  including  the 
SPOTLIGHT. 

In  these  articles,  however,  no  men- 
tion was  made  of  the  high  school 
welding  students  working  under  the 
Secondary  Vocational  Program  [SVP) 
who  helped  make  the  chair  a  reality. 

According  to  David  L.  Karschner, 
welding  instructor,  area  high  school 
students  in  the  SVP  come  to  Ihe  Col- 
lege every  day  for  nine  weeks  out  of  Ihe 
school  year.  These  students  are 
brought  to  Ihe  College  lo  study, 
work, and  learn  from  on-the-job  type 
training. 

The  welding  students  Karschner  in- 
structs were  a  major  part  of  Ihe  con- 
struction of  the  special  chair  for  Todd, 
he  said.  Karschner  added  that  the 
chair  is  back  in  the  shop  for  altera- 
tions. 

Add  curriculum  to  mail 
address  asks  coordinator 

Students  receiving  mail  on  campus 
are  asked  to  add  their  curriculum  to 
their  address,  said  Mrs.  Judith  Demko, 
coordinator,  duplicating  and  mail  ser- 
vices. 

This  would  not  only  benefit  the  mail 
services,  but  the  students  as  well,  mak- 
ing il  easier  to  find  them,  she  said. 


Chicken  Meal  Deal 

includes  our  Chicken  Specially  Sandwich, 
regular  French  Fries,  and  small  Soft  Drink 


Offer  good  only  at 
Maynard  Street  Burger  King' 

Burger  King* 
Chicken 
Specialty 
Sandwich" 


only  $  J 


69 


Reg  $2.51 

SAVE  82c 


URGER 

CING 


A  Chicken  Specially  Sandwich,  regular  French 
fries,  and  small  soft  drink:  Only  SI. 69 

Please  present  this  coupon  before  ordering. 
Not   acccplable  in  conjunction  with  olher^ 
coupons.     No  product  subsiitulion' 
I  Jmil  nnectiupun  ptr  custiim«r.  fiUOfiCft 

I    This  oticr  expires  lebruary  3.  1980  VlfJ^V*!? 

!  "iO  Mtivnard  Sirvci  ^^^^^^  ^^ 

I   f^  H  tlliainspiin.  Pa 


SPOTLIGHT 


Bulletin  Board 

SPORTS 

Varsity-- 

Men's  basketball  vs.  Northampton  County  Community  College,  home.  8 
p.m.,  Wednesday. 

Women's  basketball  vs.  Northampton  County  Community  College,  home, 
6  p.m..  Wednesday. 

Wrestling  vs   Penn  .State  University  York  Campus,  away.  7  p.m..  Wednes- 
day. 
Intramural-- 

Volleyball,  women's  and  toed  teams,  tonight 

Volleyball,  men's,  tomorrow  and  Wednesday  nights. 

Bowling  rosier  deadline  is  noon  Wednesday. 
MEETINGS 

Student  Government  Association,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  407,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Varsity  Club,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Bardo  Gym. 
MOVIE 

"The  Pawnbroker",  7:30  tonight,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium, 
free  admission. 

DEADLINE  FOR  l)ROPPIN(,  COURSES 

Friday  is  the  last  da>  l»  dr(>p  c(»urses  with  a  611  percent  refund. 


Weather:  blessing  for  builders 


rt. 


■  // 


Outing  Club 
plans  ski  trip 

The  Outing  Club  is  sponsoring  a  ski 
trip  to  Oregon  Hill  on  Wednesday, 
Ian.  .30.  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Ireniiolli.  student  activities  assistant. 

The  first  I.s  students  to  sign  up  for 
this  ski  trip  at  the  Communications 
Center  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
will  be  able  to  go.  Mrs.  Frcmiotti  said. 
Ski  rentals,  if  you  need  them,  will  be 
$13  and  lift  tickets  will  be  $5.50,  she 
also  said. 

The  student  activities  van  will  leave 
the  Bardo  Gym  for  Oregon  Hill  at  5 
p.m.  sharp.  Mrs.  Frcmiotti  also  coni- 
mcnled  thai  she  believed  cross-country 
skiing  racililics  would  be  closed  due  to 
insufficient  snow. 


The  earliest  depiction  of  wrestling 
holds  and  falls  are  from  the  walls  of 
the  tomb  of  Ptahhotap  in  Eygpl.  c. 
2300  B.C. 


SERVICE     I 


FOOD 

SERVICE 

MENUS 

□  □□□ 

Monday  (tonight) 

Cross-Country  Warmer 

Creamy  Tomato  Soup 

wilh  Toasly  Rye  Rounds 

Savory  Mushroom  Slufled  Meal  Loal 

Baked  Polato 

WPlh  Creamy  Chive  Dressing 

Au  Gralin  Bean  Bake 

Ambrosia  Salad  (fruit  salad) 

Winter  Festival  Cake 

Coftee-  Tea-Iced  Tea 

Wednesday 

Winter  Otympiad 

Soup   Faki  Soupa 

Greek  Spectacular  Salad 

Lamb  &  Beef  En  Brochette 

on  Pilaf  Bed 

ft  Broiled  Tomatoes  Au  Gratin  ft 

I  Pita  Bread  I 

^L  Vasina  Torta  Dessert  H 

^^  Cotlep    Tea   Iced  Te^  ^^ 


Student  station 


said  Horton. 

The  station,  once  FM  clearance  has 
been  given,  will  be  operating  at  10 
watts  power,  which  will  reach  between 
one  and  one-half  to  two  miles  from  the 
college.. 

Horton  said  a  license  application 
was  submitted  on  Dec.  24  to  the  FCC 
to  go  to  100  watts  power  which  would 
enable  the  station  to  reach  13.6  miles 
from  the  college. 

However.  Horton  said  the  FCC  has 
a  backlog  of  one  month  of  unopened 
inail  and  the  application  would  pro- 
bably not  even  be  read  for  a  couple  of 
months. 

He  added  there  are  approximately 
1000  other  college  radio  stations  apply- 
ing for  the  100  watt  power,  and 
clearance  for  WWAS  could  take  up  to 
three  years. 

Meanwhile,  the  station  crew  is  try- 
ing to  work  out  the  problems  with  tran- 
sition of  new  students  and  problems 
with  the  transmitter,  which  has  been 
giving  trouble  with  the  Autoinatic  Fre- 
quency Contron,  said  Horton. 

The  winner  of  the  "Guess  the  Day" 
contest  will  be  announced  at  a 
ceremony  on  the  first  day  of  official 
FM  operation,  said  Horton. 

Until  then,  he  added. "we're  trying 
to  keep  as  low  a  profile  as  possible 
while  we  work  out  the  problems." 


Daii/emtE 

-©- 

6  W.  Fourth  St 

Williamsport 

322-8066 


X-Country  Ski  Rentals 
Ski  Packages  $89 

Pine  Creek  Ski  Rentals 

Waterville  Store 

847-3241 

DaiL^i?Rnc€ 

PfiDDUCTS 


sysicm.  separaiing  ii  trofn  smoke  and 
olher  fumes,  and  ihcn  rcitirn*.  the  heat 
hack  into  the  building,  he  explained. 

C  onscqucnily.  the  building  does  not 
h;tvc  to  be  reheated. 

As  tor  the  Learning  Resources 
(enter  |l  RCl  and  the  Building  Trades 
Cenlcr  beside  Bardo  Gym.  its  tbunda- 
lion.  underground  work  and  pier  work 
has  also  been  completed. 

Steel  is  coming  in  weekly,  allowing 
the  steel  contractors  to  continue  work 
on  the  laciliiy.  Acquisition  ol 
materials.  Dean  Tule  said,  has  not 
caused  any  work  "slow-ups". 

Interior  decor  ol  both  tacililies  will 
be  done  by  the  college  in  conjunction 
with  (he  architect.  Color  schemes  mat- 
ching paint,  carpet,  and  lockers  arc  be- 
ing planned,  and  assignment  of  room 
numbers  are  also  in  the  works.  Dean 
Tulcsaid. 

Ihe  LRC  will  contain  electronic 
securitv   devices,   similar   to   Ihose  at 
Lycomini:   College   library,   he  said. 
The  I  RC   will  also  be  air-conditioned. 

Both  Ihe  welding  taciliiv  and  the 

R2D2  &  C3PO 

to  narrate  film 

A  special  film  program,  "The  Mak- 
ing of  Star  Wars",  will  be  presented  at 
10  a.m.  this  Saturday  in  the  Children's 
Room  of  the  James  V.  Brown  Library 
in  downtown  Williamsport. 

Narrated  by  "R2D2"  and  "C3PO", 
the  film  goes  behind  the  scenes  of  the 
movie  to  show  the  special  effects  and 
how  they  were  done. 

The  showing  is  open  to  the  public. 
There  is  no  admission  charge. 


I  RC  have  been  designed  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  handicapped.  The  LRC 
will  hase  an  elevator  to  the  second 
floor  of  the  gym  and  the  library,  con- 
necting the  two  buildings. 

Also,  an  enclosed  walkway  between 
the  LRC-Building  Trades  Center  and 
Unit  6  will  be  built.  The  areas  in  Iront 
ol  these  buildings  will  become  the  main 
entrance  to  the  college,  providing  ade- 
quate on-and-off  bus  loading  space 
and  some  parking. 

Dean  Tule  emphasized  that  all  ef- 
torts  to  keep  grass  and  trees  within 
these  areas  are  being  considered. 

Barring  any  material  shortages  or 
work  stoppages.  Dean  Tule  said  Ihe 
projected  completion  date  of  ihe 
welding  facility  will  be  sometime  mid- 
summer. 

The  LRC-Building  Trades  Center 
has  a  protected  completion  date  of 
January  1981. 

Dean  Tule  said  the  building  program 
is  "right  on  schedule"and  "except  for 
bad  wealher.  work  will  be  continued." 

Dental  Clinic  sets 
hours  for  semester 

The  Dental  Clinic  operated  by  the 
dental  hygiene  students  at  the  College 
will  now  be  open  Monday  through  Fri- 
day from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m..  according 
to  Mrs.  Davie  J.  Nestarick,  dental 
hygiene  instructor. 

The  clinic  is  open  to  anyone  by  ap- 
pointment. For  an  appointment,  call 
extension  323.  Cost  for  cleaning  is  $3 
for  students  and  faculty.  $4  for  others. 

Lawn  tennis  was  originally  known  as 
"sphairistike". 


It's  our  family  name. 
Itk  our  family  beer. 


C^      **«*•*  WSSSfjSSxSSSWSiW:; 


>  Bunily  brewers  for  more  than  200  years. 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 

Williamsport 

323-3237 


FEB.  4,  1980 
VOL.  15.  NO.  18 


ePBUILCBCOU 


WILUAMSPORT 


Students  offered 
'amnesty'  IF  signs 
returned  quickly 

By  Jan  Daniel 

Of  Ihe  SPOTllCiHT  Slaff 

Stop  signs  and  yield  signs  may  make  novel  decoralions 
for  a  room  or  apariment.  But,  according  to  Capl.  Frank 
E.  Kovaleski.  of  the  Williamsport  police,  when  signs  are 
removed,  those  taking  them  should  realize  "they're  play- 
ing with  someone's  safety." 

In  an  effort  to  get  some  of  these  signs  back,  the  College 
security  office  is  cooperating  with  the  Williamsport  police 
in  a  "forgiveness"  program,  said  Lawrence  P.  Smeak, 
chief  security  officer  at  the  College. 

The  police  say  that  if  the  signs  are  returned,  there  will  be 
no  arrests  made,  no  fines  levied,  and  no  prosecution 
started.  But  they  add  a  big  "IF".  If  the  signs  are  returned 
quickly. 

This  is  the  way  the  program  will  work: 

--  Students  having  signs  may  call  Smeak  (Ext.  223)  and 
without  revealing  their  identity,  inform  him  of  the  location 

of  the  signs.  iPiemi-  turn  In  Pngf  t>) 

Conference  location 
changed  to  Denton  Hill 

By  Brian  Rippey 

Of  The  SPOT!  ICHT  Slaff 

Due  to  a  misunderstanding  about  reservations,  the 
leadership  conference  has  been  moved  from  Crystal  Lake 
to  Denton  Hill,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti, 
student  activities  assistant. 

There  are  still  openings 
for  anyone  interested  in  going. 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  The  con- 
ference is  free  and  will  provide 
meals,  transportation,  and 
rooms. 

A  meeting  has  been 
scheduled  for  the  students  who 
have  signed  up  for  the  trip.  The 
meetings  will  be  held  in  Room 
132.  Klump  Academic  Center,  at 
4  p.m.  Tuesday.  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  will  go  over 
all  the  specific  details  at  the 
meeting. 

The  bus  will  depart  from 
Bardo  Gym  at  4  p.m.  Friday, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  That  even- 
ing a  dinner  and  get  acquainted 
activities  have  been  scheduled. 
Also.  Ms.  Barbara  A.  Gllmour 
will  speak  on  asserted  training. 

Saturday  morning. .an  out- 
door activity  has  been  planned, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  The  activity 
will  either  be  hiking  or  cross- 
country skiing.  Roger  E.  Davis, 
associate  professor  of  math  and 
science,  will  lead  the  outdoor  ac- 
tivity. 

The  afternoon  will  be  set 
aside  for  free  time  for  the 
students.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

Leon  Rudy,  student  ac- 
tivities director  at  Harrisburg 
Area  Community  College,  will 
work  with  committees  on  the 
method  of  committee  work: 
Mrs.  Felicia  Gaines,  parlimen- 
tarian  also  from  HACC,  will 
speak  on  the  activities  of  their 
Student  Government  Associa- 
tion. Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

(Pleuse  turn  to  Pofie  01 


Something 

different 

again 

In  this  issue  of  The 
SPOTL  IGHT, 

advertisements 
have  been  position- 
ed in  a  manner 
which  is  non- 
traditional.  The 
goal  was  to  offer 
more  readable 
pages  and  to  give 
advertisers  varied 
exposure.  The 
SPOTLIGHT 
welcomes  readers' 
comments  about 
this  positioning. 


James  M.  Loftus  (33)  attempts  one  of  his  22  points  in  the 
95-81  loss  to  Northampton  County  Community  College 
last  week. 

'Project  Specs'  to  honor 
National  PBL  Week 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  is  honoring  National  PBL 
Week,  Feb.  II  through  16,  with  Project  Specs,  according 
to  Andy  W.  Wentz,  PBL  president.  Every  chapter  of  PBL 
does  something  for  public  recognition  during  PBL  Week, 
Wentz  also  said. 

PBL  is  joining  the  local  Lions  Club  in  conducting 
Project  Specs,  which  consists  of  collecting  old  eyeglasses 
for  the  purpose  of  having  the  lenses  reground.  The.se 
reground  lenses  will  then  be  available  to  the  needy  at  a 
lower  cost  than  regular  lenses. 

Wentz  said  barrels  for  collecting  these  eyeglasses 
will  be  placed  at  various  locations  throughout  the  area  in 
stores  and  malls.  Radio  stations  and  local  newspapers  can 
be  checked  for  e.xact  locations  of  barrels,  Wentz  also  said. 

There  will  be  a  barrel  placed  on  the  third  floor  of 
the  Klump  Academic  Center  as  of  Feb.  11,  for  the  collec- 
tion of  old  eyeglasses,  and  Wentz  would  like  to  urge 
students  and  staff  members  to  make  their  donations  at  this 
point. 

Water  fountains 
to  be  installed 

Water  fountains  for  the  handicapped  are  being  in- 
stalled on  all  floors  of  the  Klump  Academic  Center,  accor- 
ding to  Raymond  C    Lowe,  physical  plant  director. 

The  fountains  arc  a  different  height  than  the  ex- 
isting ones  and  extend  farther  from  the  wall.  This  design 
enables  a  student  to  manuever  a  wheelchair  underneath, 
said  Lowe. 

He  added  that  the  new  fountains  will  adjoin  the  ex- 
isting ones. 

The  first  fountain  is  being  installed  on  the  second 
floor  of  KAC,  and  will  be  located  near  the  elevator.  Lowe 
expects  more  special  fountains  to  be  added  on  other  parts 
of  the  campus,  also. 

The  new  fountains  are  required  by  law,  said  Lowe, 
"Just  like  the  ramps  for  the  handicapped  which  are  install- 
ed on  the  campus." 


MOSCOW  i9eo 


Boycott 
Olympics? 

See  Page  2 


Bulletin 
Board 

See  Page  8 


SPOTIK.HT 


Olympic  boycott 
-athletes  lose 

Dedicated  athletes  spend  a  great  part  of 
ttieif  lives  preparing  Itieir  bodies  for  connpetition  in 
a  particular  sport, 

A  chosen  lew,  who  have  dedicated 
themselves  and  honed  their  bodies  more  than  the 
rest,  are  chosen  to  represent  the  United  States  in 
an  international  event  every  (our  years  The 
Olympic  Games 

President  Carter  now  is  asking  these 
athletes  to  boycott  the  Olympics  in  Moscow  as 
retaliation  lor  the  Russian  invasion  ol  Alghanislan 

While  It  IS  true  that  the  Olympics  are  of 
great  political  importance  in  Russia,  the  question 
must  be  asked  it  it  is  lair  to  make  the  athletes 
sacridce  what  they  have  worked  tovyard  for  years 

The  mixing  of  athletics  and  politics  is  in- 
deed a  strange  combination  Particularly  when 
one  considers  the  only  probable  effect  on  the  Rus- 
sians will  be  mild  embarrassment 

Should  athletes  be  asked  to  give  up  years 
of  training  and  perhaps  their  only  chance  at  the 
Olympics' 

This  is  indeed  a  question  that  is  debatable, 
but  Ihe  effort  must  be  considered  when  the  deci- 
sion IS  finally  made 


Soviet  aggression 
cannot  be  ignored 

The  Soviet  aggression  m  Afghanistan  is  not 
something  which  can  be  handled  on  one  level  ol 
foreign  policy  and  ignored  on  all  other  levels  ol  in- 
teraction with  the  Soviet  Union 

We  cannot  censure  the  Soviets  on  the  Irade 
level  and  be  effective  in  that  censure  unless  we 
stand  united  in  censuring  them  on  all  other  levels 
A  boycott  of  the  l\/loscow  Olympics  will  illustrate 
that  we  are  a  united  people,  and  we  are  willing  to 
make  personal  sacrifices  for  what  we  believe  is 
right 

The  U  S  Olympic  team  has  voted  to  boycott 
the  summer  games  in  Ivloscow,  Those  people  are 
10  be  congratulated  lor  sacrilicing  years  ol  training 
and  work  to  show  that  we.  as  a  nation,  as  a  free 
people,  cannot  be  bullied 

To  go  to  Moscow  .  Or  not  to  go?  That, 
now.  is  a  big  question  in  American  sport 
circles.  Here,  The  SPOTLIGHT  otters 
two  points  of  view  --  pro  and  con  -  on  the 
Issue,  The  SPOTLIGHT  welcomes  letters 
from  reatJers  on  this  subject 


Movie  review 


Whadd'ya  say.  .  . 

What  do  you 
think  of  the  College 
facilities  provided 
to  students? 

Photos  and  interviews 
by  Brian  RIppey 


D-  J,  Bauer,  construction  carpen- 
try, of  St.  Marys:  "I  think  they're  pretty 
good.  I  think  the  Lair  and  the  nursing 
facilities  are  nice, 

John  M  Lalik,  construction  carpen- 
try, of  Emanus  "I've  only  been  here  for 
two  weeks,  but  what  I've  seen  so  far  is 
okay  " 

Jell  A  Stevenson,  construction 
carpentry,  ol  Corning.  NY  "I  like  Ihe 
movies  and  dances  It  gives  you 
something  to  do  at  night  The  Lair  is  all 
right,  too,  and  so  are  Ihe  nursing 
facilities" 

David  A.  Koster.  automotive 
mechanics,  ol  East  Stroudsburg  "The 
lacilities  are  very  good  It's  too  bad 
students  don't  take  advantage  ol  them. 
It's  a  little  dull  at  night  though," 

Steven  G,  Riegel.  automotive 
mechanics,  of  Centre  Hall:  "II  WACO 
sponsored  parties  I  would  go  They 
should  have  more  activities  on 
weekends," 

Brian  R.  Cauffman,  automotive 
mechanics,  ol  Blain:  "Campus  life  could 
be  better    Have  more  concerts  " 


Bette's  abilities  not  as  high 
as  her  voice  in  The  Rose' 

By  Bob  Thomas 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

The  movie.  "The  Rose."  with  Belle  Midler, 
has  some  good  points  indeed  However,  it  leaves 
many  gaps  that  were  not  tilled  -  much  to  my 
chagrin,  as  I  had  to  shell  out  $3,50  to  see  ifi 

The  concert  scenes  were  good  since 
Midler  is  a  good  musician  Her  acting  abilities  did 
not  rise  as  high  as  her  voice  This  left  a  hole  in  Ihe 
film  and  I  doubt  thai  Brando.  Eastwood,  or  any 
other  so-called  big  star  could  have  tilled  it 

In  all.  Midler  should  slick  to  cutting  albums 
and  occasional  concert  appearances.  She'd  be 
much  better  off 


FROM  MY  DESK 

You  get  hot  and  cold 
education  in  Klump 

By  Lana  Apker 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

I  have  only  one  minor  complaint  about  the 
Klump  Academic  Center:  The  temperatures 
throughout  the  rooms  and  halls  are  nol  consistent. 
This  may  seem  to  be  a  small  problem,  but  it  can 
have  noticeable  results  -  colds 

In  the  course  ol  a  day  in  KAC.  it's  possible 
to  become  overheated  and/or  chilled  a  number  ol 
times  Some  classrooms  are  Ireezing  and  others 
are  overly  warm  It's  almosi  impossible  to  dress 
10  suit  the  climatei 

Although  I  lind  this  problem  slightly  annoy- 
ing. I  do  sympathize  with  those  in  charge  ol  con- 
trolling the  heat  in  this  old  building. 

In  fact,  i  am  grateful  that  the  heat  works  at 
all 

Having  colds,  apparently,  is  one  cross  I'll 
have  to  bear  in  order  to  get  an  education 


SPOTLIGHT 


First  Place  Award  Winn 
The  Columbia  Scholaslic  Press  Associati< 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  acaOen 


year,  except  for  college  va 

lerested  students 

OKIce: 

Room  7, 

Klump  Academic  Center 

Telephone: 

(717)  326-3761 

Extension  221 


by  lOurnalism  and  other 


Production  Team  This  Issue; 

Jan  L.  Daniel,  supervisor 

Lana  M.  Apker,  Jack  L.  Rlckert 

and  Trudy  M.  Shively. 


The  Staff 


Managing  Editor 

Janice  L    Daniel 

Features  and 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Johr*  F   Zelewicz 

Sports  Editor 

tWIollie  S   Zelewicz 

Chief  Photographer 

Timothy  A   Toth 

Advertising  Representative 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Gail  M   Thompson 

Slalf  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexer 

Michael  T   Lekites 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene 

Lana  M    Apker 

Robert  J    Allen 

John  L   Rickert 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Leslie  M    Rogers 

Trudy  M    Sh.vely 

Cindy  M    Snook 

Larry  G   Steele 

Robert  E    Thomas 

Contributing  Writer 

Kim  A   Cleele 

Faculty  Advisor 

Anthony  N   Cillo 


Few  attend 
cancer  films 

The  American  Cancer  Society 
films  did  nol  draw  a  lol  of  attention  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolti, 
student  activities  assistant.  The  films, 
which  were  shown  in  Bardo  Gym, 
opened  health  week  at  the  College  last 
Monday. 

The  Cancer  Society  was  disap- 
pointed it  did  not  reach  more  people  in 
its  films,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 
However,  they  did  find  consolation  in 
the  fact  that  they  did  help  a  few  people 
in  an  effort  to  detect  cancer  when  it 
first  hits. 

Approximately  75  people, 
students,  faculty,  and  outsiders  were 
screened  for  diabetes  in  the  Lair  on 
Tuesday.  According  to  Mrs.  Fremiot- 
ti, all  the  results  were  found  negative. 

The  Department  of  Health  ad- 
ministered blood  pressure  and 
cholesterol  tests  on  Wednesday.  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said  about  150  people  were 
tested. 

The  results  of  the  test  will  be 
received  by  the  people  in  two  to  three 
weeks,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  Abnormal 
test  results  will  also  be  sent  to  the  per- 
son's physician 

These  health  agencies  are  open 
all  year  round  to  help  people  in  the 
quest  for  good  health,  Mrs.  Fremiolti 
said. 

Those  interested  may  contactthe 
agency  to  set  up  an  appointment,  she 
added. 

r*FOOD"*\ 
SERVICE     I 
MENUS 

Monday  (Tonight) 

Cream  ol  Chicken  Soup  a  la  Reme 

French  Beef  Burguncfy 

Parsley  Noodles 

French  Green  Beans  Almoncjine 

Florentine  Salad 

Dinner  Rolls 

Pears  Heiene 


Poached  Pears  >n  Almond  Tulips 
Cotfee  -  Tea  -  iced  Tea 

Wednesday 


Maniconi  mm  Cheese  Meal  Slutting 
H  Fresh  Vegetable  Jardemere  _ 

A  Hot  Hard  Rolls  m 

I  Chocolate  Fudge  Cai<e  I 

^^^  with  Mocha  Rum  long  ^^p 

^^^^^Co'/ee  -  Tea  -  Iced  Tea^^^^ 

Theater  seeking 
singers,  dancers 

The  theater  company  is  seeking 
singers  and  dancers  for  a  production 
number,  according  to  Mrs.  Lea 
Frymire,  advisor. 

The  number  will  be  part  of  the 
variety  show  "Reaching  Out"  which 
will  be  presented  March  27.  she  said. 

"The  production  is  open  to 
anyone,  staff  or  students,"  she  added. 


WORLD 

OF 
WORK 

H  (jrltl  III  H  firt,  n  a  ^ervue  prtmtleil  by  The  SPOTI.IOHT  tn  t'twperantm  mlh  llie  Otitic 
■  oj  Placeineni    In/nrmanon  is  supplied  by  Frank  J,  Bowes .  pltuvnieni  flireflitr. 

Career  F.mployment 

Medical  Secretary  -■  Dr.  Donald  D.  Douglas.  1201  Grampian  Blvd., 
Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701.  Apply  Ms.  Judy  Brassard  or  call  326-8410.  Job  con- 
sists of  typing,  filing,  reception,  transcribing,  etc. 

Computer  Operator  -  Cornell  University,  Brown  Road,  Ithaca,  N.Y.  14853. 
Apply  Gene  Caraccilo.  operations  supervisor,  or  call  (607)  256-4812.  Appli- 
cant must  be  knowledgeable  on  IBM  370. 

Mechanical  or  Engineering  Draflpersons  -  W.R.  Care  &  Sons  Cutlery  Co. . 
20  Russell  Blvd..  Bradford.  Pa.  16701.  Apply  personnel  officer  or  call  (814) 
368-4123.    Experience  in  the  field  is  preferred. 

Electronics  Technician  -  GRIT  Publishing  Co..  West  Third  Street. 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.  Apply  Harry  Billman  or  call  326-1771.  Must  be  will- 
ing to  work  some  weekends. 

Mechanical  and  Engineering  Draflpersons  -  Acker  Drill  Co.,  Shadeylane 
Road,  Chinchilla.  Pa.  18410.  Mail  all  inquiries  to  Laurence  DeSazio.  person- 
nel manager.  P.  O.  Box  83,  Scranton,  Pa.  18501.  Person  will  render  drawings 
for  engineer's  requirements.    Drawings  will  be  used  for  production. 

Mechanical  and  Engineering  Draflpersons  --  Buell  Division  of  Envirotech 
Corp.,  200  N.  Seventh  St..  Lebanon.  Pa.  17042.  Apply  Ms.  Marcie  Thomp- 
son. 

Engineering  Draflpersons  -  Thompson  Institute,  5650  Derry  St..  Har- 
risburg.  Pa.  17111.    Apply  Mr.  Nome,  director,  or  call  (717)  564-8710. 

Legal  Secretary  -  Send  resume  to  Box  R-l  I .  Sun-Ga?ctle.  Williamsport.  Pa. 
Salary  commensurate  with  experience. 

Assistant  Manager  -•  Musselman  Jewelers.  Call  for  an  appointment. 
546-5688. 

Night  Auditor  -  Holiday  Inn.    No  phone  calls  please. 
Air  Traffic  Control  Trainees  -  Call  loll  free.  (800)  692-7800.  from  9  a.m.  to 
1  p.m.  daily. 
Chef  -  Write  to  Box  R-6,  Sun-Gazette,  Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701. 
Cook  --  Evening  work.    Call  326-1596. 

Service  and  operator  of  heavy  equipment  supervisor  --  Apply  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Transportation,  District  Office,  Monioursville,  or  Stale 
Employment  Office.  Sheridan  Street.  Williamsporl.  Pa.  17701. 

Computer  Programmer  -  Northern  Central  Bank.  P.O.  Box  3068. 
Williamsporl.  Pa.  17701.    Apply  personnel  officer. 

Trust  Officer  -•  Northern  Central  Bank,  P.O.  Box  3068.  Williamsporl.  Pa. 
17701.    Apply  personnel  officer. 

Parl-Time  Jobs 
Babysitter  -  Small  baby.    Call  326-6976. 

Shipping  Clerk  -  Bro-Dari  Industries.  Arch  Sirccl.  Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701. 
$2.95  per  hour,  9  p.m.  to  1  a.m.  shift. 

Carpentry  siudeni  --  Work  weekends  to  remodel  a  building  in  the  vicinity  of 
Lycoming  College.    Call  Mr.  Logue.  323-1460. 

On-Campus  Reeruilint; 
Valley  Design  of  Johnson  City.  N.Y..  willrecruil  for  May  graduates  or  alum- 
ni in  technical  illustration,  mechanical  and  engineering  drafting.  Tuesday, 
Feb.  12. 

Easlman  Kodak,  of  Rochester.  N.Y..  will  recruit  for  computer  program- 
mers, electrical  technicians,  engineering  draftsmen,  mechanical  draftsmen, 
and  tool  designmen  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday.  Feb.  19  and  20. 

Borg  Electronics  of  Harrisburg  will  recruit  for  machinist  general  and 
loolmaking  technicians  on  Thursday.  Feb.  21. 

Kennedy  Van  Saun.  of  Danville,  will  recruit  for  mechanical  draflpersons  and 
engineering  draflpersons  on  Wednesday,  Feb.  27. 

United  Technical  of  Reading  will  recruit  for  electronics  technicians,  electrical 
construction,  mechanical  draftsmen,  electrical  technicians,  and  tool 
designmen  on  Thursday,  Feb.  28. 


Co-op  program 
sets  new  record 

By  Bob  Thomas 

Of  Tht  SPOTLIGHT  Slafl 

A  new  record  was  set  during  the 
Fall  semester  last  year  when  84 
students  participated  in  the 
Cooperative  Education  program  (Co- 
op). "Since  the  program  started, 
we've  had  465  students  in  the 
program,"  said  William  Bradshaw, 
director  of  cooperative  education. 

In  all,  several  records  were 
broken  last  semester,  another  being  the 
record  for  students  who  participated  in 
Co-op  from  one  division,  33  from 
Math,  Science,  and  Allied  Health. 

Semester  earnings  rose  above 
$70,000  which  raised  the  total  earnings 
of  the  465  students  who  participated  in 
Co-op  since  its  start  in  1976  to  nearly 
$600,000. 

Another  first  occurred  last  last 
semester  when  the  Noviello  family, 
Rose  Ann,  Antoinette,  and  Steven 
became  the  first  family  to  have  three 
members  in  Co-op  in  the  same 
semester. 

Rose  Ann  and  Antoinette  are 
currently  enrolled  in  the 
Marketing/Merchandising  program 
while  Steven  is  enrolled  in  Plumbing 
and  Heating. 

They  received  their  training  at 
Nippenose.  Pelleschi's,  and  the  Mon- 
tour Auto  Service  Company  respective- 
ly. 

Students  who  have  participated 
in  the  Co-op  program  have  found  jobs 
in  a  wide  radius  including  as  far  away 
as  Hammond.  Louisiana. 


B  &  M  Diner 

11 70  W.  4th  St. 


Open  24  hours 


322-9106 


/ 


Students  must  sign  up 

Any  student  interested  in  going 
to  the  toboggan  party  at  Eagles  Mere 
on  Tuesday  night  or  the  skiing  party  at 
Oregon  Hill  on  Wednesday  night,  must 
sign  up  at  the  Communications  Center, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  said  Mrs.  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiolti,  student  adtivities 
assistant. 

The  bus  will  leave  from  Bardo 
Gym  at  5  p.m.  on  both  nights,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Students  must  sign  up  so  Mrs, 
Fremiotti  knows  how  many  people  lo 
expect  on  the  trips,  she  added. 


Free  Admission!  Klump  Academic  Center 

WACC  Cinema  Club  presents...  \-)  V  .      otrSIlgClOVC 


Tonight  7:30  p.m. 


A  hilarious  comedy  about  World  War  III. . 
starring  Peter  Sellers 


Next  Monday  Night: 

The  Battle  of  Algiers 

(Free  Admission) 


King  Football 
picked  up  some 
sexy  sideline 
swingers... 
got  battered, 
bloodied,  and 
bodyguarded... 
and  was  wooed, 
wowed,  and  wed 
by  TV... 


As  (he  1970'>  came  lo  an  end,  it  appeared  as 
if  foolball  had  replaced  baseball  as  Americas 
favorilc  sport.  Attendance  was  up  at  both  profes- 
Mcinal  and  college  games,  and  almost  everyone 
wasollering  point  spreads  on  the  weekend  games. 
The  increase  in  the  game  was  due  to  the  par- 
ticipants giving  the  lans  what  ihey  wanted. 

As  with  television,  football  had  a  tremen- 
dous increase  in  both  sex  and  violence  on  the  field. 

The  sex  came  by  way  of  cheerleaders.  By 
the  end  of  the  decade,  over  half  of  the  profes- 
sional teams  sported  a  team  of  cheerleaders.  The 
team  which  started  this  practice  -  and  which  still 
has  the  most  famous  and  popular  set  of  girls  -  is 
the  Dallas  Cowboys.  Even  if  people  aren't 
Cowboy  fans,  a  large  number  tune  the  game  in  on 
television  just  to  see  the  cheerleaders. 

But  the  thing  which  really  turned  the  world 
on  lo  football  was  the  increase  in  violence.  Even 
though  the  fans  refuse  to  admit  it.  they  most  enjoy 
a  game  with  hard,  pad-popping  tackles  and 
blocks. 

Injuries  in  the  70s  increased  to  an  all-lime 
high.  Knees,  ribs,  concussions  -  you  name  il  and 
some  lootball  player  was  on  the  injured  list 
because  of  il. 

Oakland  Raiders  Agressive 

The  one  team  most  closely  connected  with 
an  excess  of  violence  in  its  game  plan  was  the 
Oakland  Raiders.  Labeled  as  dirty,  the  Raiders 
played  what  they  called  an  "aggressive  game.  But 
when  defensive  back  George  Atkinson  rendered 
Pittsburgh  Steeler  Lynn  Swann  unconscious  with 
a  (brearm  smash,  coaches  and  league  officials 
became  aware  of  the  increase  of  violence  in  the 
game. 

Things  really  came  to  a  boil  when  Jack 
Talum  of  the  Raiders  tackled  Daryl  Stingley  of  the 
New  England  Patriots.  The  tackle,  a  perfectly 
legal  hit,  Icll  Stingley  paralyzed. 

Tatum  has  recently  come  out  with  a  book 
entitled  "They  Call  Me  Assassin",  saying  that  his 
role  in  the  game  is  lo  do  his  job.  and  lo  do  his  job 
effectively,  he  must  intimidale  the  other  team. 

Rules  were  changed  to  limit  the  amount  of 
violence.   Quarterbacks,  once  a  vulnerable  breed. 


k 


4 


0^\^^ 


Text 

by 

Larry  Steele 


Illustration 

by 
Jerry  Rexer 


are  prolecled  by  rules  which  stop  Ihc  play  if  the 
quarterback  is  in  the  grasp  ol  a  defensive  player. 
Offensive  linemen  were  given  more  liberal  block- 
ing rules  to  help  with  the  protection  of  their 
quarterback.  And  the  head  slap  was  taken  away 
from  the  defensive  lineman. 

Downfield  blocking  rules  were  changed  to 
protect  the  player's  knees.  No  longer  is  blocking 
below  the  knees  downfield  legal. 

Astro-lurf  Adds  Injuries 

And  the  wide  receiver  is  protected  by  a  rule 
which  limits  the  contact  he  has  with  a  defensive 
player.  The  defensive  player  is  allowed  one  hit  or 
"chuck"  --  and  that  must  come  within  five  yards 
of  the  line  of  scrimmage. 

Another  increase  in  the  number  of  injuries  fs 
due  to  the  presence  of  Astro-turf.  Aslro-turf  is  an 
artificial  surface  which  many  teams  have  turned 
to.  Although  it  does  not  get  muddy  in  wet 
weather,  it  does  turn  very  slick  and  a  player  can 
"slide"  down  the  field.  The  Astro-turf  is  very 
hard  -  much  harder  than  a  field  of  grass.  The 
reason  is;  A  layer  of  concrete  beneath  the  top 
layer  of  the  artificial  substance.  Many  players  say 
that  landing  on  Astro-turf  is  just  like  landing  on 
concrete. 

Because  of  the  increase  of  injuries,  new 
equipment  to  protect  the  player  is  being  invented. 
The  most  successful  new  piece  of  equipment  to 
come  along  in  Ihc  70s  was  the  flak  jacket. 

The  jacket,  first  worn  by  Dan  Pastormi,  of 
the  Houston  Oilers,  in  a  1978  playoff  game,  was 
■•reation  of  Byron  Donzis. 

Computers  Enter  Foolball 

The  jacket  weighs  only  a  few  pounds,  but 
can  withstand  hits  with  no  ill  effects  on  the 
wearer.  Pastorini  wore  the  jacket  to  protect  pain- 
ful cracked  ribs.  And,  despite  taking  many  hard 
hits,  he  played  the  whole  game. 

Not  all  of  the  interest  of  the  game  focused 
on  violence.  Specialization  and  computerization 
played  a  major  part  in  advancing  the  game 
through  the  years. 

No  longer  is  the  two-way  player  feasible 
for  the  game  of  foolball.  In  this  world  of 
specialization,  foolball  is  no  different.  Now  there 
are  punt  returners,  kick  returners,  tight  ends  who 
can  block,  light  ends  who  can  catch,  third  down 
■running  backs,  and  backs  who  score  from  inside 
Ihe  five. 

On  defense,  there  are  run  defense  linemen, 
pass  rushing  linemen,  and  a  fifth  defensive  back. 
There  is  also  Ihc  designated  blitzing  linebacker 
and  Ihe  nose  guard  who  slays  in  the  middle. 


The  Dallas  Cowboys  were  also  Ihe  first  to 
make  use  of  computers.  Computers  tell  the 
Cowboys  what  game  plan  to  use  and  who  to  pick 
in  the  drali.  It  also  can  tell  them  what  plays  ihe 
other  team  uses  in  different  situations.  Bui  com- 
puters are  noi  always  nghi,  as  evidenced  by  Dallas 
losing  three  Super  Bowls. 

New  Game  Plans 
More  and  more  teams  are  going  away  from 
the  traditional  running  game  plan  and  are  utilizing 
Ihc  pass.  No  longer  are  the  first  two  downs  runn- 
ing plays  and  ihe  third  down  pass.  Now,  teams 
are  throwing  on  every  down,  and  from  everywhere 
on  the  field. 

The  fans  are  also  enjoying  the  game  more 
now    because    the    players    are    better    known. 
Players  are  now  making  movies,  starring  in  com- 
mercials,   or   just    making   appearances   on    the 
speech  trail. 

With  a  new  way  of  scheduling,  the  teams 
are  now  supposedly  more  even.  The  league  has 
balanced  out,  however,  with  many  leams  now  sub- 
ject to  being  beat  on  any  given  week.  This  is  best 
shown  by  Los  Angeles,  a  9-7  team  during  the 
season,  making  it  to  the  Super  Bowl  and  taking 
Ihe  defending  champ  Steelers  to  the  limit  before 
losing. 

Fans  Can  Identify 
The  teams  now  have  more  colorful 
uniforms  than  in  Ihe  60s.  Teams  now  wear  colors 
of  light  blue.  gold,  or  silver.  Fans  in  the  stands 
wear  their  team's  colors  to  Ihe  game,  making  the 
stadium  a  color  spectacular. 

Special  names  help  fans  associate  with  their 
favorite  leams.  The  Steel  Curtain.  Doomsday 
Defense,  the  Gold  Rush.  Ihc  Sack  Pack,  and  the 
No-Name  defense  were  some  of  the  more  popular 
names  of  Ihe  70s. 

If  fans  complained  about  anything  in  the 
70s,  it  would  probably  have  to  be  the  officiating. 
Aided  by  instant  replay,  fans  now  can  make  their 
own  decisions  on  close  calls.  Before  instant 
replay,  fans  could  argue  with  the  calls,  but  there 
was  no  real  way  of  disagreeing  with  the  officials' 
calls.  One  of  the  questions  in  league  officials' 
minds  is  whether  to  resort  to  instant  replay  for 
close  plays  or  to  keep  it  a  human  game  with 
human  mistakes. 

If  one  player  made  the  70s  exciting,  he 
would  have  to  be  O.J.  Simpson.  The  "Juice"  set 
several  rushing  marks  durmg  the  decade  and  thrill- 
ed fans  alt  over  Ihe  country  who  saw  him  run. 
During  Simpson's  career,  he  set  the  single  game 
rushing  record,  Ihe  single  season  rushing  mark, 
and  finished  second  to  the  legendary  Jim  Brown  in 
career  rushing. 

O.J.  Simpson  Retires 
Simpson  injured  a  knee  in  1977  and  was 
slowed  considerably.  In  1978  he  was  traded  from 
the  Buffalow  Bills  to  to  the  San  Francisco  49er's. 
playing  occasionally  there  before  retiring  after  Ihe 
1979  season. 

Although  O.  J.  is  now  gone  from  the  game, 
there  is  a  truckload  of  young  runners  waiting  to 
lake  his  place  as  Ihe  premier  runner  in  the  game. 
Among  these  are  Waller  Payton,  who  now  owns 
the  mark  for  single-game  rushing,  Tony  Dorsett, 
and  Earl  Campbell. 

The  team  of  Ihe  seventies  has  to  be  the' 
Steelers.  who  went  from  a  1-13  team  in  1969  to  Ihe 
play-offs  in  1972.  Not  surprisingly,  the  transiiion 
came  about  the  same  lime  a  young  running  back 
named  Franco  Harris  began  his  career  with  Ihe 
Steelers.  Harris  gained  over  1000  yards  in  his 
rookie  year,  and  led  Pittsburgh  to  a  play-off  win 


over   Ihe   veteran    Raiders   with    his   immaculate 
reception. 

"Pitisburgh  improved  each  year,  with  its 
younger  players  improving  and  good  draft  picks 
helping  Ihe  team.  Led  by  Harris,  the  Steelers  won 
back-to-back  Super  Bowls  in  1975  and  1976. 

Bui  the  Steelers  were  not  thought  of  as  a 
dynasty  at  this  time.  They  mearely  had  a  good  of- 
fense with  an  outstanding  defense,  led  by  Mean 
Joe  Greene.  But  then  things  began  lo  happen  as 
Terry  Bradshaw  matured  as  a  qualerback  and  a 
team  leader.  The  Steelers  lost  the  1978  Super 
Bowl,  but  captured  both  Ihe  1979  and  1980  Super 
Bowls  to  firmly  establish  themselves  as  one  of  Ihe 
greatest  leams  ever. 

NFL  Gets  Competition 

While  the  National  Football  League  was 
growing  in  popularity,  it  had  competition.  The 
Canadien  Football  League  established  itself  by 
plucking  some  of  the  best  college  players  away 
from  the  NFL.  Among  these  going  to  the  CFL 
were  Johnny  Rodgers,  Anthony  Davis,  and  Tom 
Cousineau,  although  Rodgers  and  Davis  have 
since  left  the  league  and  joined  the  NFL. 

In  the  mid-1970's  another  league  was 
started,  but  it  quickly  fizzled.  It  was  called  Ihe 
World  Foolball  League,  and  il  lured  many  big 
name    pro    players     away     from     their    clubs. 

Players  such  as  Larry  Csonka  and  Daryle 
Lamonica  were  promised  big  money  and  signed 
lucrative  contracts.  But  the  league  losl  money  and 
the  players  were  not  paid  in  most  cases.  The 
league  folded  after  two  weak  years  in  existance. 

(PUtue  turn  to  Page  7i 


...like  landing 
on  concrete... 


...he  must  intimidate 
the  other  team... 


McNally  and  wife  explore  scuba 


Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Suff 


in  new  course 


Thomas  McNally,  a  counselor 
at  the  College,  is  currently  exploring 
new  depths  in  recreation. 

McNally  and  his  wife.  Eileen, 
are  enrolled  in  a  course  being  taught  at 
the  YWCA  by  Richard  N.  Best,  owner 
of  the  Sunken  Treasure  Dive  Shop  in 
Jersey  Shore. 

The  course  has  been  accredited 
by  the  College  for  one  credit,  said 
McNally  and  is  acceptable  as  partial 
credit  for  Physical  Educatioon  re- 
quirements. 

The  class  meets  every  Sunday 
for  six  weeks  from  3  to  7  p.m..  said 
McNally.  with  all  equipment  provided 
except  mask.  fins,  and  snorkel. 

Best,  who  is  certified  by  both 
Professional  Association  of  Diving  In- 
structors (PADI)  and  the  National 
Association  of  Underwater  Instructors 
(NAUI),  said  more  classes  will  be 
taught. 


"As  long  as  there  are  four 
students  interested,  I'll  teach  a  class 
any  night  except  Tuesday  and  Friday," 
Best  said. 

McNally  has  completed  the 
course  except  for  his  checkout  dives, 
after  which  he  will  be  a  certified  Scuba 
Diver,  he  said. 

McNally.  who  has  a  pool  at 
home,  said  "I  always  fell  restricted  in  a 
pool."  but  "it's  a  whole  different 
world"  when  scuba-diving. 

According  to  Best,  the  main  em- 
phasis of  the  course  is  performance 
and  pool  work,  written  tests,  and 
classroom  work. 

Upon  completion  of  the  course, 
students  are  invited  to  join  the  Pine 
Creek  Valley  Diving  Society,  which 
plans  various  outings  for  members,  ne 
said. 

On  Feb.  23,  the  club  will  go  to 
Philadelphia  for  an  underwater  shopp- 


^    ' 


ing  carl  race,  said  Best. 

The  club  also  lakes  pan  in  the 
annual  national  treasure  hum  schedul- 
ed for  Aug.  9,  he  added. 

The  treasure  hunt  consists  of 
distributing  a  thousand  poker  chips  of 
different  colors,  with  each  color  car- 
rying a  different  point  value,  in  a  lake 
or  other  diving  site.  Divers  must 
discover  which  diving  site  they  are  to 
go  to,  choosing  from  a  map  listing 
several. 


The  diver  bringing  up  the  most 
points  in  poker  chips  is  declared  the 
winner. 

Prizes  for  the  hunt  range  from  a 
trip  to  the  Carribbean  for  two  to  prizes 
consisting  of  diving  equiplmenl,  said 
Best. 

According  to  McNally,  the 
course  is  an  excellent  one  with  which  to 
"whet  your  appetite"  for  diving. 

Students  interested  in  enrolling 
in  the  course  should  contact  Best  at  the 
Sunken  Treasure  Dive  Shop,  R.D.4, 
Box  395,  Jersey  Shore,  or  call 
398-1458. 


Students  asked  to  return  signs 


IConliniud  from  Page  U 

-The  signs  may  be  placed  on  a 
porch  or  other  easily  accessible  areas. 

-The  signs  will  then  be  picked 
up  by  Security  and  returned  to  the 
Police  department ,  no  questions  asked. 

In  addition  to  the  safety  hazard, 
Capt.  Kovaleski  said,  the  costs  of  the 
signs  has  risen  dramatically. 

The  signs  themselves  can  cost  as 
high  as  $200,  according  to  Dr.  David 
M.  Heincy,  dean  for  student  and  career 
development. 

In  addition  lo  the  cost  of  the 
signs,  painters  as  well  as  the  laborers 
who  erect  the  signs  must  be  paid,  said 
Kovaleski. 

All  of  this  money  comes  from 
the  pockets  of  the  taxpayers. 

When  the  signs  are  stolen,  not 
only  is  it  a  hazard  and  a  hardship  on 
the  taxpayers,  it  is  also  a  crime, 
punishable  by  a  fine  or  imprisionment 
or  both,  said  Capl.  Kovaleski. 

Kovaleski  said  persons  having 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau 
begins  'Pledge  Week' 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  is 
to  start  "Pledge  Week'  activities  this 
week,  according  to  Miss  Darla  J. 
Johnson,  club  member. 

According  to  Miss 

Johnson. "Pledge  Week"  will  be  dif- 
ferent this  year. 

Miss  Johnson  staled,  instead  of 
having  the  prospects  do  crazy  stunts 
they  would  have  to  do  different  jobs 
around  the  Graphic  Arts  Department 
in  order  to  become  eligible  for 
membership  in  the  Fraternity. 


signs  who  don't  voluntarily  return 
them  will  be  prosecuted  if  the  signs  are 
later  discovered. 

According  to  Dean  Heiney, 
there  were  several  students  from  the 
College  about  a  year  ago  who  were  of- 
fered the  opportunity  to  turn  in  the 
signs  but  did  not.  They  were  later  ar- 
rested, made  to  pay  a  fine  and  work  on 
a  work  detail  as  punishment. 

Recognition 
banquet  plans 
now  underway 

The  date  and  place  of  the  spring 
recognition  banquet  has  been  decided, 
according  to  David  P.  Siemsen,  direc- 
tor of  learning  resources,  who  is  in 
charge  of  the  banquet  this  year. 

The  banquet  will  be  Wednes- 
day, April  30,  in  the  Annunciation 
Parish  Center.  Sietnsen  said  the 
Christmas  party  was  also  held  there. 

The  banquet  is  held  for  ad- 
ministration, faculty,  and  staff 
members.  At  that  time,  recognition 
and  special  honors  will  be  given  to 
those  deserving  it. 

Siemsen  said  this  is  his  first  year 
planning  the  banquet. 


NANCY'S  PLACE 

CALL  IN  ORDERS 


322-9010 


536  W   Third  SI 
Williamsport,  Pa 


*^^^xe^C^isebui^,s7]bf"PizzarB^^^ 
Open  1 1  to  9  Daily...  ^yyyyyyyyyk  closed  Sunday 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes         Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^S^^K"  ~'~~«~'~~'^^^ir^ 
» Certified  Belt  Rank         ^^        fturTocc'rcccnM  S 

Promotions  ^        ONE  FREE  LESSON         0 

'  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Dragon  judo  Clubs  g 

'  SelfDefense/Ju  Jitsu      Brhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonHI 
•-''^'5  ^     at  williamsport,  Lock  Haven,    m 

368-3295  $      °'  MHtonvMCAs        a 


Pi^srSE^E^ZHX^ 


Dean  Heiney  tells  SGA 
about  commencement 


Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  president  of 
(he  Student  Government  Association 
(SGA),  called  last  Tuesday's  meeting 
to  order  with  about  25  students  pre- 
sent. 

After  other  discussion.  Dr.  David 
M.  Heiney,  dean  of  students,  spoke  on 
the  subject  of  commencement. 

Dean  Heiney  mentioned  that  a 
graduation  speaker  has  not  yet  been 
decided  upon  for  May  commencement. 
He  asked  the  SGA  for  its  comment  on 
the  matter. 

Dean  Heiney  also  brought  up  ques- 
tions about  orientation.  He  asked 
students  at  Ihe  meeting  for  their  ideas 
about  orientation  and  what  they  would 
do  to  improve  future  orientations. 

Other  business  covered  at  the 
meeting  included  reports  from  the 
housing  and  spring  events  committees, 
about  the  student  leadership  con- 
ference being  relocated  at  Denton  Hill, 
and  about  the  fact  that  identification 


MARCH  1 

is  the 
deadline 


pictures    are    still    being    taken     for 
lamination  on  student  ID  cards. 

Miss  Dincher  added  that  no  nomina- 
tions for  SGA  elections  will  be  ac- 
cepted after  Tuesday,  Feb.  19.  She 
said  that  a  new  vice  president  will  be 
elected  at  the  next  SGA  meeting  - 
which  is  scheduled  for  Tuesday,  Feb. 
12. 

Conference  site 

iContinued  from  Pofic  ll 

Continuing  the  scheduled  ac- 
tivities Tor  Saturday  night,  Lawrence 
W.  Emery,  director  ot  counseHng  and 
career  development,  will  speak  on  bur- 
nout prevention.  Emery  will  also 
speak  on  leadership  roles  and  training 
during  the  weekend,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

If  the  weather  is  not 
cooperative,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  noted,  the 
schedule  for  Saturday  will  be  reversed. 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  also  wanted  students  to 
know  that  the  conference  wi'l  not  just 
be  a  lecture  session.  The  students  will 
aUo  be  involved  in  discussions. 

A  round  table  discussion  has 
been  set  for  Sunday  morning.  An 
evaluation  of  the  weekend  and  dinner 
are  also  planned  before  the  bus  leaves 
at  2  p.m.  on  Sunday,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

Any  student  who  wants  to  drive 
instead  of  taking  the  bus  is  welcome  to 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  They  must  still 
sign  up,  she  added. 


SPORTS 


Food  Service  students 
plan  volleyball  marathon 


The  Food  Service  Siudenl 
Organization  has  initialed  a  volleyball 
marathon  to  begin  Friday.  Feb.  22, 
and  end  sometime  Saturday.  Feb.  23. 
The  marathon  is  to  benefit  Divine  Pro- 
vidence Hospital's  Renal  Dialysis  Unit, 
according  to  Rick  J.  Burick.  food  ser- 
vice secretary. 

The  Renal  Dialysis  Unit.  Burick 
said,  is  where  kidney  patients  are  con- 
necled  10  a  machine  designed  to  clean 
the  blood  that  passes  through  kidneys. 

All  student  organizations  and 
clubs  from  the  College  are  asked  to 
enter  this  marathon  against  Lycoming. 

Anyone  interested  in  competing 
should  contact  Donna  E. 
Houseknecht,     chairman    of    the 

Elsasser  gets 
highest  score 
for  Wildcats 

The  women's  basketball  team  was 
defeated  last  Wednesday  night  by  Nor- 
thampton County  Community  College 
with  a  score  of  71  to  40. 

Miss  E.  Hilton  of  Northampton  was 
high  scorer  in  the  game,  with  a  total  of 
24  points. ' 

For  the  Wildcats,  high  scorer  was 
Donna  L.  Elsasser,  with  a  total  of  13 
points. 

Alice  M.  Kennedy  took  down  the 
most  rebounds  for  the  Wildcats,  collec- 
ting 13  for  the  night. 

Toni  L.  Mabie  made  the  most  assists 
for  the  Wildcats.  She  netted  a  total  of 
three  for  the  night. 

The  first  half  was  close, "with  the 
Wildcats  only  six  points  behind  by  the 
end  of  the  half. 

The  second  half  saw  the  Northamp- 
ton team  coasting  to  easy  victory  over 
the  dejected  Wildcats,  however. 

The  earliest  recorded  skiing  competi- 
tion was  held  in  Oslo,  Norway,  in 
1767. 


marathon,  according  to  Burick. 

He  also  stated  that  local 
businesses  and  services  will  be  asked  lo 
donate  refreshments  and  sponsor  par- 
ticipants. 

Burick  also  said  thai  dates  for 
Food  Service  students  to  attend  the  Na- 
tional Resturant  Association  show  in 
Chicago  have  been  set  for  May  18 
through  May  20. 

Reservations  for  (his  trip  will  re- 
main open  through  today.  Any 
students  interested  in  this  trip  should 
contact  Food  Service  advisors,  Mrs. 
Anne  R.  Migllo.  or  Mrs.  Vivian  P. 
Moon  today. 

Tonight's  dinner  was  planned 
by  Carmi  Deparasis,  and  Wednesday's 
dinner  was  planned  by  Karen  K.  King. 

TJ's,  Ladybugs 
tops  in  girls' 
volleyball 

TJ's  and  C.  S.  Ladybugs  won  all 
three  of  their  opening  volleyball  games 
as  the  girls'  intramural  volleyball 
season  got  underway  last  Monday 
night. 

The  Chipmunks  took  two  of  three 
games  from  the  M.A.S.H.  Hot  Lips  in 
the  other  opening  contest. 

Tonight.  TJ's  and  C.S.  Ladybugs 
will  square  off  in  a  battle  of  the  two 
undefeated  teams  to  determine  who 
will  be  the  league  leader. 

In  other  girls'  games  tonight  at  6:30. 
Emanon  will  play  the  Chipmunks  while 
M.A.S.H.  Hot  Lips  will  battle  The  Op- 
position. 

The  Standings 
Team  W  L 

TJ's  3  0 

Ladybugs  3  0 

Chipmunks  2  I 

Hot  Lips  1  2 

Opposition  0  3 

Emanon  0  3 


Northampton 
defeats  'Cats 

The  Wildcats  men's  basketball  team 
was  defeated.  95-8 1 .  last  Thursday 
night  by  Northampton  County  Com- 
munity College  before  a  sparse  crowd 
in  Bardo  Gym. 

The  next  game  at  home  will  be 
tomorrow  night  at  8  p.m.  against 
Luzerne  County  Community  College. 
An  excellent  display  of  outside 
shooting  by  Northampton  sent  the 
'Cats  to  the  locker  room  down,  49-39. 
at  the  half. 

The  Wildcat  running  game  took  ef- 
fect in  the  second  half.' narrowing  the 
lead  to  five  points  numerous  times 
-before  Northampton  regained  their 
shooting  touch. 

James  M.  Loftus,  technical  draw- 
ing, led  the  'Cats  scoring  attack  with  22 
points  and  pulled  down  13  rebounds. 

Kevin  J.  Bagget,  business  manage- 
ment, chipped  in  16  points,  and  Len  R. 
Maguire,  carpentry  and  building,  add- 
ed II  assists. 

Nelson  led  Northampton  scorers 
with  28  points. 

At  a  tense  moment  in  the  game. 
Wildcat  Coach  Larry  J.  Manikowski 
was  ejected  from  the  game  by  a  referee 
with  whom  he  "had  words". 

Northampton  scored  six  unanswered 
points,  after  Manikowski  was  ejected, 
to  put  the  game  out  of  reach. 


[^^Ql^  Used  Albums 

MUSHROOM 

J29  Hepburn  St 
Williamsport,  Pa        322-4451 
Open  at  11:00  am.  daily 
Gifts-Jewelry-Euphoric  Devices 


A.  J.  Foyt  Jr.  holds  the  record  for 
the  fastest  pit  stop. 


\wn  SPOTlldHT  Page  7 

Team 
posts 

two  wins 

The  Wildcats  wrestling  team 
posted  two  lopsided  victories  to  raise 
their  record  to  7-1.  The  two  wins  assure 
Coach  Max  G.  Wasson.  his  eleventh 
straight  winning  season. 

Last  Wednesday,  the  Wildcats 
pounded  York  Campus  of  Penn  State 
46-6  Friday,  Jan.  25  they  defeated  the 
Dubois  Campus  of  Penn  State  39-13. 

In  Wednesday's  encounter  with 
York,  the  Wildcats  jumped  out  to  a 
14-0  lead  and  coasted  to  a  victory.  At 
126,  David  C.  Dinger  pinned  his  oppo- 
nent in  just  27  seconds  of  the  first 
period. 

The  fall  was  sandwiched  bet- 
ween Terry  L.  Schwab*s  18-7  major 
decision  at  118  and  Bruce  A.  Rigard's 
14-3  major  decision  at  134. 

After  a  fall  at  142  for  York,  the 
Wildcats  swept  the  rest  of  the  bouts  for 
an  easy  victory.  Eric  S.  Haser  posted 
an  8-1  decision  at  ISO  to  raise  the  lead 
17-6. 

After  David  T.  Olver  was  ^as 
awarded  a  forfeit  at  158,  Anthony  A. 
Tessitore  posted  a  7-3  win  lo  put  the 
match  away. 

Terrance  C.  Rosini  and  Thomas 
S.   Husler  added  icing  to  the  cake. 
Rosini  gained  a  major  decision  at  177, 
and  Husler  decked  his  opponent  in  just 
44  seconds. 

Dennis  L.  Wise  was  awarded  a 
forfeit  to  give  the  Wildcats  their  46-6 
victory. 

Against  the  Dubois  Campus  of 
Penn  State,  winning  by  falls  were 
Michael  E.  Maneval  at  142.  Tessitore 
at  167.  and  Husler  at  190. 

Schwab  added  a  superior  deci- 
sion at  158.  Winning  by  decision  was 
Rosini  at  177  by  a  6-0  score. 

Alan  Kifolo  was  given  a  forfeit 
al  126  and  the  Wildcats  returned  the 
favor  at  heavyweight. 

The  College  graplers  will  be  in 
action  on  Friday  night  as  they  host 
Montgomery  Area  Community  Col- 
lege. Starting  time  for  the  match  is  8 
p.m.  in  the  Bardo  Gym.    Admission  is 


(Continued  from  Pi^e  5i 

Football  in  the  70s 

College  Football  had  many  ups  and  downs 
during  the  1970's.  Many  college  teams  were  put 
on  probation  for  either  recruiting  violations  or  for 
altering  a  player's  transcripts.  Oklahoma  was  on 
probation  for  two  years  for  altering  a  high  school 
students  transcripts  to  get  him  into  school.  Dur- 
ing that  two-year  period  Oklahoma  went 
undefeated,  but  could  not  play  in  bowl  games 
because  of  the  probation. 

One  of  the  questions  in  college  is  who  is 
number  one. 

Unlike  the  pros,  who  have  a  championship 
game,  the  college  champ  is  decided  by  the  two 
press  services,  the  UPI  and  the  AP.  Many  people 
connected  with  college  football  feel  that  a  play-off 
system  is  needed  to  decide  a  true  national  cham- 
pion. 

Archie  Griffin  of  Ohio  State  became  the 
first  player  to  ever  win  the  Heisman  Trophy  more 
than  once.  Griffin  also  set  the  career  rushing 
mark  for  college  players  until  Tony  Dorsetl  broke 
it  in  a  spectular  senior  year,  in  which  he  led  his  Pit- 
tsburgh team  to  a  surprise  number  one  ranking. 


Woody  Hayes,  the  tiery  coach  of  Ohio 
State,  was  removed  as  coach  of  the  Buckeyes  when 
he  hit  a  Clemson  player  in  the  1978  Galor  Bowl. 
And  Frank  Kush.  coach  at  Arizona  State,  was 
fired  for  allegedly  hitting  one  of  his  own  players. 

Several  college  coaches,  made  the  transition 
to  pro  ball.  Chuck  Fairbanks  of  Oklahoma  and 
John  McKay  of  USC  left  their  positions  to  lead 
the  New  England  Patriots  and  the  Tampa  Bay 
Bucaneers.  But  Joe  Paterno  of  Penn  State  turned 
down  a  million  dollar  offer  from  New  England  to 
remain  coaching  in  college. 

Some  pro  coaches  left  the  pressures  of  the 
NFL  to  return  to  the  college  ranks.  Fairbanks  and 
Lou  Holtz  left  head  coaching  jobs  to  return  to 
coach  college  teams  where  there  is  less  pressure. 

All  over  the  country,  high  school  coaches, 
Junior  High  coaches,  and  even  midget  league 
coaches  are  putting  pressure  on  the  kids  to  win  at 
any  expense.  The  emphasis  on  the  game  has  gone 
from  playing  hard  and  doing  your  best  to  going 
out  and  winning  in  any  way  possible. 

Bookies  are  making  money  with  millions  of 
people  each  weekend.  The  country,  caught  up  in 
competitive  nature  of  sports,  now  look  only  for 
the     winners,     not     for     the     competitors. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 


326-6966 


IM  bowlers  to  report 
Thursday  at  Y  lanes 

All  team  members  of  intramural 
bowling  are  lo  report  to  the  Young 
Men's  Christian  Association  at  4:15 
p.m..  Thursday,  according  to  Thomas 
G.  Gray,  director  of  intramural  ac- 
tivities. 

Bowlers  will  bowl  for  average  this 
week.  Gray  said.  Team  competition 
will  begin  next  Thursday  afternoon. 

Six  teams  have  filed  rosters  with  him 
so  far,  the  director  reported. 

Any  team  wanting  to  participate  in 
the  league  should  submit  its  roster  to 
Gray  in  his  office  in  the  Bardo  Gym 
before  Thursday,  he  said. 


SPOTl  1C.HT 


Castlebury  lo  speak  today 

Lycoming  County  Commis- 
sioner Galen  D.  Castlebury  will  speak 
al  a  government  class  in  the  College  at 
9  a.m.,  today,  according  to  Dr.  Daniel 
J.  Doyle,  government  instructor. 

Castlebury  has  been  asked  to 
speak  about  the  changes  in  government 
procedures,  the  interaction  of  county, 
local  and  state  govcrnmenis,  and  the 
major  conders  facing  ihe  counties. 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 


Open  for  Breakfast.,,  7  a,m. 
Breakfast  served  'til  10:30  a.m. 

Hours: 
7  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 

Cillo  's  Special  Service: 

...call  ahead  /or  lake-our  orders 

and  we  'fl  hate  Ihe  order  ready  fur  you  to 

322-1321 

Across  from  Klump 


Kodak  now  offering 
RIT  scholarships 

Eastman  Kodak  is  offering  a 
scholarship  program  for  any  Rochester 
Institute  of  Technology  (RJT)  transfer 
students,  according  lo  Dr.  Lawrence 
W.  Emery,  director  of  counseling  and 
career  development. 

The  scholarship  pays  three  quarters 
of  the  student's  tuition  for  his  junior 
and  senior  years  --  which  adds  up  to 
$5,000  a  year. 

Dr.  Emery  said  he  is  urging  all 
students  who  want  to  take  advantage 
of  the  scholarship  to  start  planning  as 
soon  as  possible. 


Sunday  movies  begin 
at  library  downtown 

"Sunday  Family  Movies"  were 
to  have  been  introduced  yesterday  al 
the  James  V.  Brown  Library  to 
highlight  the  reopening  of  the  library 
on  Sundays.  The  times  for  the  library 
on  Sundays  are  1:30  p.m.  to  5:.10  p.m. 

"I  Heard  The  Owl  Call  My 
Name"  was  the  movie  scheduled  for 
yesterday. 

The  next  movie  will  be  shown 
Sunday,  heb.  10. 

Movies  are  also  set  up  for  Sun- 
day. Feb.  17  and  Sunday  Feb.  24. 


Bulletin  Board 

MOVIE 

"Dr.   Strangelove"   and   "Nixon:    25    Years".   7:30  tonight,   Klump 
Academic  Center  Auditorium,  free  admission. 
MEETINGS 

Advisory   Council.    3    to  4   p.m..    Wednesday.    Room    207,    Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Phi    Beta    Lambda.    3:45    p.m..    Wednesday.    Room    302.    Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Interclub  Council.  3:30  p.m..  Tuesday.  Room  132.  Klump  .Academic 
Center. 

Alumni,  7  tonight.  Room  207,  Klump  Academic  Center. 
WINTER  EVENTS 

Toboggan  Party,  5  p.m..  tomorrow,  bus  al  Bardo  Gym  to  Eagles  Mere. 

Skating  Party.  5  p.m..  Wednesday,  bus  at  Bardo  Gym  to  Oregon  Hill. 
SWIMMING 

Swimming.  7  to  8  p.m.,  Thursday,  Young  Women's  Christian  Associa- 
tion. 

SPORTS 
Varsity  -- 

Men's  Basketball  vs.  Luzerne  County  Community  College,  home,  8 
p.m.,  Tuesday. 

Women's  Basketball  vs.  Luzerne  County  Community  College,  home,  6 
p.m..  Tuesday. 

Wrestling  vs.  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  home.  8  p.m.. 
Friday. 

Men's  Basketball  vs.  Delaware  County  Community  College.  2  p.m., 
Saturday. 

Women's  Basketball  vs.  Baptist  Bible  College,  away,  8  p.m.,  Saturday. 
Intramural  -- 

Women's  Volleyball,  6:30  p.m..  Monday. 

Co-ed  Volleyball.  7:30  p.m..  Monday 

Men's  Volleyball.  6:30.  7:30,  and  8:30  p.m.,  Thursday. 

Bowling,  4:15  p.m.,  Thursday,  Young  Men's  Christian  Association. 

College  radio  station  now  operating  on  FM 

WWAS,  the  student-operated  Col-  one  and  a  half  miles  from  the  College, 

lege  radio  sialion,  is  currently  broad-  he  said. 

casting  on  FM  88.1,  according  to  Clif-  The  station  still  is  waiting  official 

ford  C.  Horlon,  advisor.  approval  from  the  board  of  trustees. 

The  station  is  operating  at  10  watts  The  board  is  expected  to  consider  ap- 

power  so  Ihe  signal  reaches  only  one  to  proval  at  its  February  meeting,  Horton 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 

Wllliamsport 

323-3237 


Wascher's 
Chiropiactic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G.  Wascher 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Une 

Wllliamsport,  Pa. 

Phone (7171 326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


Parking  fines 
not  on  increase 
says  Smeak 

"There  has  been  no  appreciable 
increase  in  the  amount  of  parking 
fines"  between  last  semester  and  the 
semester  before,  according  to 
Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  head  of  security. 

Although  one  major  parking  lot 
has  been  lost,  said  Smeak,  another  has 
been  added  on  Park  Street.  So  the 
areas  lo  ticket  balance  out.  he  said. 

Smeak  added  that  students  can 
pay  their  fines  or  make  an  appeal  in  the 
Security  Office,  which  is  located  on  the 
first  floor  of  Klump  Academic  Center. 

If  the  fines  are  not  paid  by  the 
end  of  the  semester  Ihe  students  grades 
will  be  withheld. 

Smeak  encourages  students  to 
use  "common  courtesy"  when  parking 
by  not  blocking  other  people  in.  If 
blocking  occurs,  fines  will  be  issued,  he 
said. 


Construction  on  schedule 

See  below 


SPOTLIGHTing    baseball    in    the     70s.,,  Page  6 


Monday,  Feb.  11.  1980 

Vol.  15,  No.  19 

12  Pages 


e^BlflLIJBGJlP 


Wllllamsport 

Area 

Community 

College 

Wllllamiport.  Pa. 


Construction 

program 

progressing 

Phase  1-Stage  I  of  the  building  con- 
struction program,  which  includes  the 
welding  facility.  Learning  Resources 
Center  and  Building  Trades  Center  i-^ 
now  23  percent  complete,  according  to 
James  O.  Tule,  dean  of  secondary 
vocational  programs  and  executive 
assistant  to  the  president. 

At  the  February  Board  of  Trustees 
meeting  held  last  Monday,  Dean  Tule 
and  Trustee  Mario  Caldera,  chairman 
of  the  Building  and  Grounds  Commit- 
tee, presented  a  brief  progress  report 
concerning  the  building  program. 

Caldera  presented  a  list  of  six  devia- 
tions in  the  design  of  the  building  pro- 
gram, all  of  which  were  approved  by 
the  architect,  the  State  Public  School 
Building  Authority,  and  respective 
contractors. 

The  Board  of  Trustees  also  accepted 
the  deviations  unanimously. 


Patterns  in  the  sky  are  created 
as  structural  steel  rises  for  learning  resources  building. 

[SPOTLIGHT  Photos  by  Tim  TofhJ 

Reorganization  plan 
outlined  for  staff 


Outing  Club  meets  today 

The  Outing  Club  will  meet  today, 
according  to  Beth  E.  Fisher,  club 
member.  The  meeting  will  be  at  4  p.m. 
in  Room  229,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 


2,960  attend  College 

Spring  enrollment  figures  total  2,960 
full  and  part  time  students,  according 
to  Kathryn  M.  Marcello,  director  of 
student  records.  The  accumulative 
figure  was  as  of  Jan.  31,  she  said. 

The  enrollment   figure  for  last 
semester  was  2.964,  she  added. 


By  Gail  Thompson 

0(  The  SPOTLIGHT  Sllfl 

Reorganization  providing  "better 
utilization  with  fewer  administrative 
positions"  is  planned  for  the  College 
administrative  and  organizational 
structure,  according  to  Dr.  William  H. 
Feddersen.  president. 

In  an  effort  to  "improve  the  effi- 
ciency of  internal  operations".  Dr. 
Feddersen  said  the  plan  would 
eliminate  three  divisions  as  well  as  two 
deans'  positions. 

At  a  faculty  and  staff  meeting  last 
Tuesday,  Dr.  Feddersen  unveiled  the 
tentative  restructuring  of  the  organiza- 
tion. Since  then,  various  converations 
have  taken  place  informally  among 
and  between  faculty,  staff,  and 
students. 

Under  the  proposed  restructuring, 
the  board  of  trustees  remains  at  the 
top,  followed  by  the  College  president. 
Next  in  line  would  be  an  executive 
assistant  to  the  president  (a  job  now 
held  by  Dean  James  O.  Tule)  and  a 
capital  campaign  coordinator  (now  Dr. 
William  Homisak). 

Continuing  through  the  chain,  three 
deans  -  instead  of  the  five  currently 


would  lead  integral  parts  of 
the  organization. 

Administrative  services  oul 

These  positions  will  be  dean  for  stU' 
dent  and  career  development,  dean  foi 
community  and  continuing  education 
and  dean  for  instructional  programs. 
The  position  of  dean  for  ad 
ministrative  services,  now  held  by 
Dean  William  W.  Fritz,  would  be 
eliminated  if  the  proposed  reorganiza 
tion  is  finalized.  Also,  the  position  o 
dean  for  secondary  and  vocational  pro 
grams,  now  held  by  Dean  Tule,  would 
be  included  in  the  instructional  pro 
grams  position,  formerly  titled  dean 
for  degree  and  certificate  programs. 

(Please  lurn  to  Pi 

Petitions  due  Friday 

This  Friday,  Feb.  15,  is  the  last  day 
to  petition  for  graduation,  according 
to  Kathryn  M.  Marcello.  All  students 
who  plan  to  graduate  in  May  must 
complete  the  necessary  forms  before 
this  deadline,  she  said. 

For  more  information,  students  may 
contact  their  division  director. 


2        SPOTLIGHT        Monday.  Fab.  11.  1960s 


I  E  W  P  O  I  N  T 


Months  go  by... 
still  no  flashers 

In  September  1978,  a  proposal  was  brought 
before  the  Williamsporl  City  Council  to  inslall 
Hashing  warning  signals  on  Third  Street  in  front  of 
the  Klump  Academic  Center  in  order  to  alleviate 
the  hazard  to  students  crossing  the  street  between 
classes 

The  proposal  was  approved,  budgetary 
allowances  were  made  in  the  College  budget,  and 
the  proposal  was  forwarded  lo  the  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Transportation  (PENNDOT) 

The  warning  devices  are,  obviously,  stifl  not  in 
place 

There  have  been  additional  accidents  in  front  of 
the  College  in  the  year  and  a  hall  thai  has  passed 
since  -  along  with  many  additional  "near  misses" 
with  students  being  almost  hit 

The  crosswalks  and  lowered  speed  limit  signs 
that  were  also  a  part  ol  the  proposal  have  been  in- 
stalled 

So.  where  are  the  flashing  warning  devices'' 

It  seems  that  a  year  and  a  half  is  adequate  time 
to  allow  lor  the  installation  of  these  devices  ' 

While  it  is  true  that  the  College  needs  more 
facilities,  revisions  in  administrative  procedures, 
and  various  other  "priority  '  items,  student  safety 
should  not  be  allowed  to  occupy  a  second  seat 

PENNDOT  must  be  encouraged  by  the  College 
lo  complete  the  installation  of  the  devices  rapidly 
before  one  of  those  "near  misses "     isn't 


From  my  desk 


victor  T.  Llllowiky 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

If  the  draft 
were  reinstated 
and     you     were 
drafted, 
would  you  go? 

Photos  and  interviews 
by  Leslie  Rogers 


Asked  al  Unit  30 

Victor    T     Lisiewsky, 
auto    mechanics,    of 
Mount  Carmel.  "No 
I'm     better     off     in 
Canada" 


Karl  J  Schreiber.  auto 
mechanics,  of  Kersey. 
"Yes.  I  believe  in 
fighting  for  my  coun- 
try " 


Ivlike  J  Lanich.  auto 
mechanics.  of 

Curwensville.  "I'd  go. 
but  Id  be  disturbed  If 
you  can  go  and  fight 
and  die,  why  don't 
they  lower  the  drink- 
ing age''" 


MIko  J,  Lanich 


Wildcat  spirit 
tame  as  a  lamb 

By  Brian  Rippey 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

I  recently  attended  a  basketball  game  in  the 
Bardo  Gym  and  I  was  shocked  With  free  admis- 
sion. I  expected  the  stands  lo  be  packed  But  I 
should  have  known  belter 

The  bleachers  were  only  pulled  down  on  one 
side  and  even  they  were  not  near  being  filled  II 
seems  the  only  way  that  a  big  crowd  can  be 
drawn  lo  any  activity  around  here  is  to  have  a  keg- 
Even  more  disheartening  was  the  lack  of  school 
spirit  shown  by  those  in  attendance  Without  the 
vocal  support  of  the  fans,  the  basketball  team  may 
as  well  play  all  its  games  on  the  road 

Students  must  not  realize  that  this  is  their 
school,  they  will  be  graduated  from  it  and  be 
associated  with  it  A  little  spirit  is  the  least  they 
could  show  for  their  athletic  teams 

Without  the  aid  of  the  crowd,  the  basketball 
team  went  down  to  defeat  Everylime  they  rallied 
lo  get  back  into  the  game,  the  crowd  iust  did  not 
give  them  the  extra  push  they  needed  to  catch  up 
(ilaybe  we  do  not  have  the  greatest  basketball 
team  in  the  world,  but  a  little  support  would  sure 
be  a  big  boost  Since  it  is  free,  it  is  the  best  value 
in  entertainment  in  town 

At  the  next  home  athletic  event,  I  hope  to  see  a 
lot  of  people  there  cheering  for  the  Wildcats  It 
would  make  all  the  difference  in  the  world  to  the 
players 


YOU  ^^/'"9   YOU 
for 


Foods  you  eat 
can  make  you 
look  attractive 

Editor  s  Note  Tt^e  tollowmg  column  15  written,  on  an  alter- 
nating basis,  by  Dietetic  Tecnmcian  students  ol  ibe  College 
Opinions  expressed  may  or  may  nol  relied  the  opinion  ol  tnis 
newspaper 

By  Kim  Fox 

The  foods  you  eal  can  brighten  your  eyes, 
straighten  your  posture,  put  shine  in  your  hair  and 
add  a  glow  to  your  complexion 

II  vou've  been  conditioninq  your  hair  in  hopes 
that  It  will  develop  luster  and  applying  astringents 
and  drying  lotions  to  get  nd  of  acne,  but  have  yet 
to  see  results,  it  may  be  that  a  change  is  not  possi- 
ble from  the  outside 

Your  problem  may  lie  within  the  nutrients 
you've  neglected  to  consume  You  must  con- 
sume some  60  known  nutrients  every  day  to  look 
and  feel  your  absolute  best 

In  order  to  look  your  most  attractive. you  musi 
select  food  from  all  the  food  groups,  because  all 
nutrients  -  vitamins,  minerals,  proteins,  and  ammo 
acids  -  work  together  to  cause  chemical  reactions 
to  occur  in  your  body 

To  give  yourself  maximum  assurance  of  getting 
all  your  nutrients  daily,  plan  menus  to  include  the 
following  items: 

Protein 
Protein  is  the  mam  component  of  your  hair, 
skin,  and  nails  and  is  what  the  outer-you  primarily 
consists  ol      Besides  this,  protein  is  needed  to 


Send  yourself 
a  valentine,  too! 

This  Thursday  is  Feb   14     Valentines  Day 
Traditionally.  Valentine's  Day  has  been  a  day 
on  which  we  are  to  pay  special  attention  lo  those 
we  love 

Tradition  has,  however,  ignored  that  special 
person  we  cannot  do  without  That  person  to 
whom  we  owe  all  the  credit  for  everything  we 
have  accomplished 

That  person  is  "myself" 
Too  often  we  are  caught  up  in  the  hectic 
schedule  of  modern  day  society  to  sit  back  and 
reflect  on  goals  we  have  met  in  our  lives,  to  con- 
gratulate ourselves  on  some  major  accomplish- 
ment, or  to  simply  give  ourselves  some  well- 
deserved  "quiet  time". 

This  Valentine's  Day.  after  the  cards  are  signed 
and  the  envelopes  addressed,  sit  back  and  pat  a 
very  important  person  on  the  back  -  yourself 

Music  review 


It's  a  truly  irreverent  tale 

By  Bob  Allen 

01  The  SPOTLIGHT  Stall 

The  Knack's  first  album  entitled  "Get  the 
Knack"  is  a  wide  open,  no-holds-barred  collection 
of  music  designed  to  make  you  want  to  sing  along 
The  Knack's  number  one  hit,  "Good  Girls 
Don't",  is  a  truly  irreverent  tale  of  the  trials  and 
tribulations  ol  teen-age  life 

One  of  the  keys  to  the  Knack's  success  has  to 
be  their  use  of  what  is  cleverly  called  "dirly"  The 
other  key  to  their  success  has  lo  be  the  simplicity 
of  their  music  -  which  makes  it  easy  to  sing  along 
with  the  album 

Knack  has  to  be  one  of  the  best  groups  to  come 
out  of  the  70s 


SPOTLIGHT 


First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 
The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout  the  academic 
year,  except  for  college  vacations,  by  journalism  and  other  m 
lerested  students 
Olfice; 
Room  7. 
Klump  Academic  Center 

(717)  326-3761 
Extension  221 


Member  o(  The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 
and  of  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Association 


Managing  Editor 
Janice  L   Darnel 
Features  and 
Editorial  Page  Editor 


John 


Zele 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J  Cardent 
Lana  M  Apker 
Robert  J  Alien 
John  L  Rickert 
Brian  1^  Rippey 
Leslie  M  Rogers 
Trudy  M  Shively 
Cindy  M  Snook 
Larry  G  Steele 
Robert  E   Thomas 


Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Clilef  Photographer 

Timclhy  A    Toth 

Advertising  Representative 

and  Senior  StatI  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexer 

Michael  T   Lekites 


Production  Team  This  Issue: 

Robert  A    Allen,  Jacqueline  J    Cardene,   Bnan  M    Rippey. 
Leslie  M   Rogers,  and  Larry  G   Steele 


Monday.  Feb.  11,  19 


^Second  Front  Pagei 


Board  sets 
priority  list 

With  the  opponimiiy  lo  spend  $1.2 
niiltion  in  reserve  funds  from  ihe  Stage 
1  Building  Program,  the  Board  of 
Trustees  have  devised  a  priority  list  of 
improvements  for  the  campus. 

Top  priority  will  be  converting  the 
present  heating  system  in  the  shops  to 
more  efficient  gas  heating. 

Next  on  the  list  is  electrical  and  dusi 
collection  hook-ups,  and  welding 
fabrication  work  in  the  new  welding 
facility. 

Third  priorily  is  the  replacement  ot 
boilers--a  new  healing  system--for 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

Considered  "serious"  by  Dr. 
William  H.  Feddersen.  college  presi- 
dent, is  Ihe  need  for  the  fourth 
priority--  new  heating  systems  for  Unit 
6  and  Bardo  Gym.  Dr.  Feddersen 
said  a  breakdown  in  the  present  system 
"could  affect  instruction"  in  these 
buildings. 

The  Board  is  also  considering 
demolishing  the  Cromar  building  when 
it  becomes  vacant.  Currently,  that 
building  houses  the  building 
technologies  division,  the  bookstore, 
and  some  secondary  building 
technologies  classes. 

The  building  technologies  division 
would  be  moving  into  the  new  building. 
trades  center  after  it  is  completed. 

Also  on  the  list  is  a  plan  to  install 
epoxy  painted  block  walls. 

In  addition,  the  Board  is  considering 
the  installation  of  service  and 
pedestrian  access  to  the  new  buildings, 
as  well  as  new  municipal  sidewalks 
and  curbs. 

R.  James  Dunham,  Board  vice- 
chairman,  commented  the  funds  will 
be  spent  in  the  order  of  priorities  listed, 
but  the  college  will  probably  "eat  up 
the  list  at  number  three." 

Photo  shooting 
at  airport  today 

Student  identification  photos  will  be 
taken  at  the  airport  today,  according  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  student  ac- 
tivities assistant.  The  photographer 
will  be  there  from  1  to  3  p.m. 

Wednesday  and  Thursday,  ID 
photos  will  be  taken  at  the  Earth 
Science  Building.  Pictures  will  be  shot 
from  I  to  4:30  p.m.,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

The  television  lounge,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  will  be  the  site  for 
shooting  on  Tuesday,  Feb.  19.  Photos 
will  be  taken  from  1  to  5  p.m.,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  noted. 

Students  are  not  required  to  have 
their  pictures  taken  for  (heir  ID 
cards,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

But.  she  said  she  feels  it  is  a  good  idea 
for  identification  at  local  banks  where 
students  have  had  trouble. 

A  fee  of  $1  will  be  charged  for  four 
photos,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  added.  The 
price  includes  lamination  of  a  photo  on 
the  ID  card,  she  said. 

The  site  of  the  first  oil  well  (drilled 
by  Edwin  Drake)  was  in  Titusville,  Pa., 
Aug.  27,  1859. 


New  building  at  Susquehanna  Street  sliows  work  progress. 
(Other  photos,  story,  Page  1.) 


Circle  K  plans 
bake  sale  today 

Circle  K  is  beginning  a  new  semester 
of  activity  at  the  College.  At  the  Circle 
K  meeting  last  Wednesday,  plans  were 
made  for  a  bake  sale  scheduled  today 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center  lobby. 
Other  discussion  included  plans  for 
a  Valentine's  Day  parly  for  children  at 
the  Williamsporl  Hospital,  the  Circle  K 
conference  in  March,  and  a  date  for 
Ihe  club  picture  for  the  yearbook. 

Kristy  L.  Wright,  Circle  K  president, 
asked  members  lo  pay  their  dues  as 
soon  as  possible. 

Thomas  C.  Leitzel,  assistant  club 
advisor,  asked  the  seven  students  who 
attended  the  meeting  to  bring  a  guest 
with  them  to  the  next  meeting. 

The  next  meeting  is  at  3:30  p.m., 
Wednesday,  Feb.  20  in  Klump 
Academic  Center  cafeteria. 

Circle  K  is  open  to  students  in- 
terested in  college  and  community  ser- 
vice. Applications  are  available  in 
Room  302-A,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Officers  are  elected 
by  SNOW  members 

The  Student  Nurses  of  WACC 
(SNOW)  have  elected  new  officers,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Margaret  H. 
McKeehen,  nursing  instructor.  The  of- 
ficers will  serve  until  graduation  in 
September. 

Elected  were: 

Connie  J.  Brown,  president;  Janet 
M.  Kreamer,  vice  president:  Judy  M. 
Weaver,  secretary;  and  Sandra  W. 
Kitzmiller,  treasurer. 

The  Cherokee  Indian  tribe  is  one  of  the 
largest  Indian  tribes  in  the  United  States. 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  chapter 
honored  by  proclamation 


Last  Wednesday  at  II  a.m..  Mayor 
Stephen  J.  Lucasi  signed  a  proclama- 
tion recognizing  National  Phi  Beta 
Lambda  Week  and  the  efforts  of  our 
local  PBL  chapter  here  at  the  College, 
according  to  Paul  W.  Goldfedcr,  local 
and  state  PBL  advisor 

PBL  is  a  national  business  organiza- 
tion designed  to  promote  activities  for 
business  students  and  to  inform  the 
public  about  economics  and  free  enter- 
prise, Goldfeder  said.  PBL  strives  lo 
give  business  students  a  hands-on  ap- 
proach to  many  facets  of  the  business 
world,  he  added. 

Among  Ihe  PBL  Week  projects  ar- 
ranged by  president  Andy  W.  Wentz  is 
Project  Specs,  for  the  purpose  of  col- 
lecting and  re-grinding  old  eyeglass 
lenses.  These  lenses  will  then  be 
distributed  to  the  poor  and  needy  of 
the  world,  Goldfeder  said. 

Goldfeder  added  containers  for  Ihe 
collection  of  these  eyeglasses  will  be 
located  on  the  first  and  third  floors  of 
Klump  Academic  Center.  Other  con- 
tainers will  be  placed  in  downtown 
businesses  and  in  the  Lycoming  Mall. 

Trustees  meeting  set 
for  Monday,  March  3 

The  next  regular  meeting  of  the 
board  of  trustees  will  be  at  7:30  p.m., 
Monday,  March  3,  in  the  Parkes 
Automotive  Building  on  Susquehanna 
Street. 

The  agenda  wilt  include  a  review  and 
decision  on  two  new  programs  --  wood 
products  technology  and  technology 
studies  --  according  to  information 
supplied  at  Ihe  February  trustees 
meeting. 


can  make  donations  and  PBL 
would  appreciate  everyone's  help  both 
Wentz  and  Goldfeder  said. 

Goldfeder  said  Wentz  has  made  ar- 
rangements for  local  TV  stations  to 
play  a  tape  throughout  the  week  of  Ed 
McMahon,  of  the  Tonight  Show,  mak- 
ing announcements  of  PBL  activities. 

Night  courses 
get  big  turnout 

Dr.  Donald  B.  Bergerslock,  director 
of  the  Business  and  Computer  Science 
Division,  reports  that  during  the  Spr- 
ing semester  there  are  21  three-credit 
night  class  courses  offered  in  the  divi- 
sion with  over  500  students  enrolled. 
The  courses  are  offered  7  to  10  p.m. 

Dr.  Bergerslock  attributes  this 
growth  in  the  night  school  courses  to 
the  faculty.  He  said  the  faculty  made  a 
commitment  to  enlarge  Ihe  night 
school  offerings. 

In  approximately  three  years,  Ihe 
enrollment  has  grown  from  40  lo  50 
students  lo  well  over  500  students  each 
semester,  he  said. 

The  possibility  of  adding  more 
classes  from  4  lo  7  p.m.  is  being  looked 
into,  said  Dr.  Bergerslock.  He  said  he 
feels  there  can  be  even  more  growth  in 
Ihe  division  night  classes. 

Of  the  students  now  taking  these 
courses,  approximately  130  are  degree 
candidates,  he  said. 

Eskimos  in  Greenland  are  second 
only  to  Americans  in  the  slicks  of  gum 
they  chew— an  average  1.75  lbs.  each 
year  compared  with  the  2.21  lbs.  in  Ihe 
United  States. 


4        SPOTLIGHT        Monday.  Feb   11.  1980 


3( 


y 


'l^ 


A-'. 


vNx 


y 


^^^ 


111 


11 


n^:^ih 


r 


dti 


kA 


**  ■ ,  ~' ■  J  ii; '••^^^"* 


1^ 


Dorothy  J.  Burger,  left,  and  Dawn  R.  Mercer,  denial  hygiene  sludenls   leach 
sludenls    al    Si.    Boniface    Etemenlary    School    about    a    dentists    duties. 

[SPOTLICHT  Phuio  In-  H,ih  ■\llei,.l 


Dental  students 
teach  tooth  care 
at  area  schools 

Forty-three  dental  hygiene  students 
went  to  elementary  schools  on  Mon- 
day. Feb.  4,  to  teach  children  all 
aspects  of  dental  health. 

This  program  was  held  as  a  part  of 
the  Community  Dental  Health  class  at 
the  College  and  as  part  of  observance 
of  Children's  Dental  Health  Week,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Sandra  S.  Luks,  denial 
hygiene  instructor. 

All  first  and  second  year  students 
took  pan  in  the  program.  Five  area 
school  districts  were  visited:  Selin- 
sgrove  Area,  Montoursville.  Mon- 
tgomery Area,  Williamsport  Area,  and 
South  Williamsport  Area. 

Mrs.  Luks  estimated  thai  the  pro- 
gram reached  1,400  children. 

Dr.  Christiaan  Barnard  performed 
the  first  successful  heart  transplant  in 
Capetown,  South  Africa,  Dec.  3,  1967, 
on  Louis  Washkansky,  who  lived  for  18 
days. 

Triskaidekaphobia  is  an  unnatural 
fear  of  the  number  13. 


Club  to  sponsor 
Christian  group 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  is  sponsor- 
ing a  concert  at  8  p.m.,  Wednesday, 
March  5.  The  Benny  Hester  Band  will 
perform  in  the  Bardo  Gym  as  part  of  a 
cooperative  effort  to  effective  ministry 
by  both  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  and 
Celebration  Ministries  of  Sunbury,  ac- 
cording to  James  V.  Phillips,  club 
president. 

Students  of  the  College  will  be  given 
free  admission  with  ID.,  tickets  for  the 
public  are  available  at  BJ's  Gospel 
Supplies  and  the  College  Communica- 
tion Center,  located  on  the  first  floor 
of  Klump  Academic  Center.  Phillips 
said. 

'He  added  the  club  will  only  be  get- 
ting about  20  percent  profit  from  the 
concert,  and  that  will  go  to  the  Student 
Government  Association  (SGA)  for  a 
financing  loan. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  meetings 
are  7  p.m.,  Tuesday  evenings,  he  add- 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G  Wascher 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Uiie 

Willlamspoit,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  32S-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


We  Buy  and  Sell 

MUSHROOM 

J29  Hepburn  St 
Williamsport,  Pa        322-4451 
Open  at  11  00  am  daily 
Gifts- Jeweliy-Euphoric  Devices 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes        classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^^^^y  — .— .—  -.Tr,.Tr  '»yy 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank         C^^^Tl'rrni^TI-'contu^^^J 
Promotions  Q         ONE  FREE  LESSON         ^ 

•  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Dragon  ludo  Clubs  2 

•  Self  Defense/Ju  Jitsu      Myhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  Lesson* 
•-'^^"^  ^     at  Williamsport,  Lock  Haven,    g 

368-3295  ^      °^  ivmtonYMCAs        5 


Moriday.  Feb   11,  1980         SPOTLIGHT         S 


Come  In  and  Get... 

YOUR  BURGER  KING' PUNCH  CARD 
TO  WIN  A  FREE  "MEAL  DEAL" 
(Items  are:  Whopper*  Sandwich, 

Reg.-Size  Fries  and  Reg.-Size  Soda) 

One  Punch 

With  Purchase  of  Any 

Large  Sandwich* 

*Large  Sandwiches  are  Whoppers.  Dbls.  &  Specialties 


Cards  punched  2/7/80  thru  3/9/80.  This  card,  when  filled  with  ten  B.K-  pun- 
ches, is  redeemable  (or  a  FREE  MEAL  (items  as  indicated).  This  is  not  accep- 
table in  conjunction  with  any  olher  discount  coupons,  no  product  <iubstitul)On 
is  permitted,  and  is  good  only  al  the  Maynard  Street  Burger  Klng*location. 


BURGER 

KING 


Redemption  Period  Terminates:  3-23-80 

50  MAYNARD  STREET 
WILLIAMSPORT 

Independently  Owned  and  Operated 


SPOTLIGHT         Monday,  F»b.  11.  1980 


Changes  dominated  the  '/Os  in  the  world  of  baseball  Actually, 
the  changes  began  in  '69  when  the  American  and  National 
Leagues  were  divided  into  two  divisions.  Baseball  will  never  be 
quite  the  same  what  with  developments  of  the  past  ten  years. 

Free  agency  was  the  top  story  of  the  decade  Superstars  and 
mediocre  players  alil<e  played  out  contracts  and  went  to  the 
highest  bidder 

Catfish  Hunter,  Reggie  Jackson,  Rollie  Fingers,  and  Nolan  Ryan 
were  among  the  "mercenaries"  who  became  instant  millionaires 
Even  hometown  favorite  Pete  Rose  left  Cincinnati  for  a  multi-year 
deal 

The  A's  broke  up 

Controversy  and  free  agency  broke  up  the  Oakland  As  team 
that  had  won  three  straight  world  championships  Also  departing 
from  Oakland  along  with  Hunter,  Jackson,  and  Fingers  were  Gene 
Tenace.  Joe  Rudi.  and  Sal  Bando  The  once  powerful  A's  became 
mere  cellar-dwellers  by  the  end  of  the  decade,  compiling 
baseball's  worst  record 

Commissioner  Bowie  Kuhn  voided  Charlie  Finley's  sale  of  Vida 
Blue  to  the  Reds,  claiming  it  was  not  in  baseball's  best  interests. 
Finley  finally  did  get  rid  of  Blue,  totally  dismanteling  his  champion- 
ship club 

The  American  League  added  the  designated  hitter  rule  to  add 
more  scoring  and  excitement  to  the  game.  Not  only  did  it  add  to 
scoring,  but  it  extended  many  older  players'  careers. 

Also,  it  kept  pitchers  in  tight  games  longer,  since  they  did  not 
have  to  be  pinch-hit  for 

The  National  League  did  not  adopt  the  rule,  but  a  compromise 
was  reached  to  have  the  DH  in  every  other  World  Senes 
Artlllclal  turf  mattes  scene 

Another  way  to  add  scoring  was  generated  by  the  National 
League:  turfball.  Turfball  is  played  the  same  as  baseball,  but  on  a 
synthetic  surface  that  causes  the  ball  to  roll  faster  and  bounce 
higher  By  decade's  end,  no  less  than  seven  National  League 
perks  were  using  artificial  turf 

Demanding  higher  salaries-other  than  players-  were  umpires. 
Unable  to  reach  agreement,  the  men  in  blue  staged  a  strike  that 
carried  well  into  the  '79  season 

IVIinor  League  umpires  temporarily  replaced  the  striking  umpires. 
A  tew  rookies  were  kept  to  take  the  place  of  ill  or  vacationing  um- 
pires fvlost  ol  the  lime,  they  found  it  impossible  to  work  with  each 
other  during  the  season 

Color  was  added  to  the  game  as  many  teams  switched  to  color- 
ful uniforms  With  different  combinations  of  shirts  and  pants,  teams 
such  as  the  Phillies,  Pirates.  White  Sox, and  As  could  wear  a  dif- 
ferent combination  every  day  of  the  week. 

In  some  cities  entertainment  was  stressed  more  than  winning 
Clubs  did  anything  from  the  traditional  giving  away  of  bats  to  bring- 
ing chickens  to  the  games  to  dance  between  innings 

Also  pretty  ball  girls  came  dressed  in  hot  pants  and  sat  along  the 
foul  lines  to  retreive  foul  balls     The  girls  were  not  the  only  ones 
wearing  shorts.  The  Chicago  White  Sox  experimented  with  wear- 
ing shorts  during  the  hot  afternoons  in  the  summer 
Promotions,  fun  Introduced 

Bill  Veeck,  owner  ol  the  Chicago  White  Sox,  brought  new  ideas 
about  entertaining  fans  to  the  ball  park  Handing  out  kazoos  to  all 
fans  one  evening,  Veeck  created  the  largest  "orchestra"  in  history. 
The  fans  all  joined  in  humming  "Take  Me  Out  to  the  Ballgame" 

One  ol  Veeck's  promotions  did  not  go  over  too  well  with  some 
White  Sox  fans  On  "Disco  Night ".  fans  attending  the  White  Sox 
doubleheader  received  a  discounted  price  for  bringing  a  disco 


FREE  AGENCY, 

COLOR, 

AND 

EXCITEMENT 

HIGHLIGHTED 

10  YEARS 

OF  BASEBALL 


record  Between  games,  a  Chicago  DJ  who  hated  disco  piled  the 
records  in  a  stack  and  blew  them  up  Irate  fans  stormed  onto  the 
field  in  protest  and  made  field  conditions  unplayable  for  the  second 
game 

Beer  Night  a  bust 
Another  promotion  got  out  of  hand  in  Cleveland.  On  "Beer 
Night",  drunk,  rowdy  fans  threatening  a  Ranger  player  forced  tire 
Indians  to  forfeit  to  Texas  The  game  went  into  the  book  as  a  9-0. 
tvlanagers  kept  their  suitcases  packed  unless  their  club  was  in 
first  place.  Even  managers  who  produced  winning  seasons,  such 
as  Sparky  Anderson,  were  canned. 


Managers 
kept  their 
suitcases 
packed... 


--  AND  IT'S 

ONLY  THE  TOP 

OF  THE 
EIGHTH 


Monday,  Fab.11.  1980        SPOTUQHT 


Text  by 
Brian  Rippey 

Illustrated  by 
Mike  Lekites 


Billy  Martin  never  knew  if  he  was  hired  or  fired  from  the  New  York 
Yankees-  Martin  was  fired  during  '78.  hired  for  '79.  and  dismissed 
again  during  the  off-season. 

Despite  all  the  extracurricular  hoopla,  some  players  were  able  to 
achieve  high  goals  and  set  new  records 

Hank  Aaron  set  a  new.  all-time  home  run  mark-shattering  what 
some  considered  an  unreachable  mark  set  by  Babe  Ruth 
Stole  his  way  into  'Book' 
While  Aaron  was  rewriting  the  record  book  on  homers,  Lou 
Brock  was  stealing  his  way  into  the  record  book.  Brock  stole  1 1 8 
bases  in  one  season  to  top  the  old  mark  by  1 4  He  also  erased  the 
name  of  Ty  Cobb  as  baseball's  career  stolen  base  leader. 


The  Bird 

fizzled  out 

but  new  stars 

were  going 

strong 


d^^' 


Pete  Rose  hit  safely  in  44  straight  games  to  set  a  new  National 
League  mark.  However.  Rose  fell  1  2  shy  of  the  record  held  by  Joe 
D  i  M  a  g  g  i  0. 

Fred  Lynn  became  the  first  man  to  win  Rookie-of-the-Year  and 
most  valuable  player  in  the  same  season  Not  only  did  Lynn  excel 
at  the  plate  while  leading  the  Reo  Sox  into  the  World  Series,  but  he 
also  was  spectacular  in  the  field. 

Great  years  back  to  back 

Joe  Morgan  of  the  Cincinnati  Reds  put  two  great  years  back  to 
back  to  become  the  first  player  to  win  the  most  valuable  player  two 
straight  years  Morgan  also  excelled  in  the  field  He  set  a  record 
for  least  errors  for  second  basemen  in  a  season. 

No-hit  Nolan  Ryan  threw  himself  into  the  record  book.  Besides 
compiling  four  no-hitters.  Ryan  struck  out  384  batters  in  a  season 
to  set  a  record- 
Iron  man  Mike  Marshall  set  a  standard  for  appearing  in  the  most 
games  as  pitcher  in  a  season,  Marshall  pitched  in  106  games  on 
his  way  to  win  the  Cy  Young  Award 

More  relief  pitchers 

Relief  pitchers  appeared  in  more  games  than  in  the  past  as  com- 
plete games  became  a  rarity,  especially  in  the  National  League, 

Among  relievers  that  came  into  prominence  during  the  70s 
were  Rawly  Eastwick.  Bruce  Sutter.  Bill  Campbell.  Rollie  Finger, 
and  Kent  Tekulve,  The  bullpen  was  generally  considered  the  road 
to  the  World  Series 

While  old  stars  were  ending  careers,  new  players  came  into  the 
limelight.  The  biggest  impact  was  made  by  Mark  "The  Bird" 
Fidrych,  Everywhere  he  went,  he  packed  the  stadium  with  fans 
who  wanted  to  see  the  latest  craze  in  baseball 

The  Bird  fizzled  out  but  many  other  emerging  stars  were  going 
strong  by  decade's  end,  Mike  Schmidt  continued  to  terrorize  op- 
posing pitchers,  especially  when  he  got  into  one  of  his  patented 
"home  run  grooves"  The  Philly  slugger  led  the  National  League  in 
homers  three  straight 

Off  the  bench  for  proof 
George  Foster  came  off  the  bench  to  prove  he  should  play 
every  day    Given  the  chance  Foster  proved  he  could  be  one  of  the 
best  players  in  the  game, 

Steve  Garvey,  better  known  as  Mr,  Consistency,  played  well 
year  in  and  year  out  to  keep  the  Dodgers  at  the  top  of  the  division. 

Speaking  of  being  consistent.  Rod  Carew  must  be  mentioned, 
Carew  led  the  American  League  in  batting  several  times      His 
average  was  never  below  the  300  mark 

The  National  League  continued  its  dominance  over  American 
League  rivals  in  the  All  -Star  game  The  AL  could  manage  only  one 
victory  in  the  mid-summer  classic 

In  the  series,  however,  the  American  League  won  six  times, 
Oakland  won  the  title  three     times,  the  Yankees  twice  ,  and 
Baltimore    once    to    give    the    American    League    the    edge 
1975:  A  great  Series 

One  of  the  greatest  World  Series  of  all  time  was  played  in  1975. 
The  Cincinnati  Reds  battled  the  Boston  Red  Sox  through  seven 
games  before  winning  game  seven  and  the  senes  by  a  4-3  margin. 

And  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  came  from  a  3-1  deficit  to  defeat  the 
Baltimore  Orioles,  The  Pirates  used  pitching  ,  not  hitting,  as  their 
trademark  "The  Lumber  Company  "  might  suggest,  to  overtake  the 
Birds, 


Please  turn  to  Page  10 


8         SPOTLIGHT         Monday.  Feb   11,  1980 

Grapplers  home 
finale  tomorrow 

The  final  home  wre^iling  maieh  of 
Ihe  •season  will  be  7  p.m.  lomorrow 
nighl  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym.  The  Wildcai 
squad  will  wrcslle  Ihc  squad  from  Penn 
Siaic  Campus  of  Berks. 

Wresiling  Ihc  lasl  home  malch  of 
iheir  careers  will  be  126  pounder  David 
C.  Dinger  (3-1),  150  pounder  Eric  S. 
Haser  (6-2).  and  Thomas  S.  Huslcr, 
190  pounder,  (6-0). 

The  College  grapplers  hold  an  8-1 
mark  pending  a  match  wilh  Monl- 
gomery  Community  College  which  was 
to  have  taken  place  Friday. 

Coach  Max  E.  Wasson  has  set  the 
following  line-up  for  tomorrow's  ac- 
tion. Terry  L.  Schwab,  (5-1)  at  118, 
Bruce  A.  Rigard,  (7-1)  at  134,  and 
Michael  E.  Maneval,  (4-1)  at  142. 

Also,  Anihony  A.  Tcssitore,  (6-2)  at 
167,  Terrance  C.  Rosini,  at  177  (4-1), 
David  T.  Olver,  at  158  (2-2),  and  Den- 
nis L.  Wise,  (2-6)  al  heavyweight. 

Coach  Wasson  has  asked  everyone 
to  come  out  and  support  his  squad  who 
has  had  one  of  their  finest  seasons. 
Admission  is  free. 

Wildcat  ladies 
lose  to  Luzerne 

The  girls'  basketball  team  came  out 
on  the  losing  end  last  Tuesday  night 
against  Luzerne  County  Community 
College  68-47. 

Behind  40-16  at  halftime,  the 
women  came  on  strong  in  the  second 
half  to  outscore  Luzerne,  31-28.  but 
Ihe  24  point  halftime  deficit  wa.s  too 
big  to  make  up  for  Ihe  Wildcats. 

High  scorers  for  the  home  team  were 
Alice  M.  Kennedy  with  10  and  Mary 
M.  Temple  with  nine  points. 

Wildcats  defeat 
Luzerne    squad 

After  rallying  from  a  10  point 
halftime  deficit,  the  Wildcat  men's 
basketball  team  defeated  Luzerne 
County  Community  College,  72-67. 

The  comeback  was  witnessed  by  a 
small  crowd  in  Bardo  Gym. 

The  next  home  game  is  7  p.m., 
Thursday,  against  Lock  Haven  Slate 
College's  junior  varsliy  squad. 

Len  R.  Maguire,  carpentry  and 
building,  led  the  'Cat  rally  wilh  23 
points  and  five  assists. 

Ken  G.  Laniz,  graphic  arts,  pulled 
down  II  rebounds  and  lossed  in  14 
points  to  aid  the  Wildcat  victory. 

SGA  to  hold  meeting 

The  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  will  meet  tomorrow  at  4 
p.m..  Room  132,  Klump  Academic 
Center.  Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  SGA 
president,  said  a  new  vice  president  will 
be  elected  al  this  meeimg. 


In  women's  baskelball  compelilion  recently,  Alice  Kennedy  (31)  lakes  one  of 
her  free  throws.  The  Women  Wildcats  were  battling  the  team  from  Nor- 
thampton. 

Colts  to  battle  media  for  benefit 


The  Baltimore  Colts  football  players 
will  be  competing  against  news  and 
sports  media  of  Northeastern  Penn- 
sylvania in  a  baskeibal!  game  at  7:30 
p.m..  Saturday.  March  22,  in  Nelson 


Doug   Kesno,   of  WMLP  radio,   and 
Bob  Evans,  of  WMPT  radio. 

Additional  information  about 
tickets  is  available  from  the  local  MS 
office,      153      W.      Fourth      St.. 


Field   House.   Bloomsburg  State  Col-     Williamsport,  or  by  telephoning  (717) 
lege.  Bloomsburg.  322-3876. 

Proceeds  from  the  event  will  go  to 
the  research  and  patient   program  of     SNOW  SDOnSOKS   tCQ 
the  Northeastern  Pennsylvania  Mulli-  ^ 

pie  Sclerosis  Society.  Qt  lOCOl  HUrSitlg  hOmC 

Both  the  Colts  and  the  media  have 


joined  the  athletics  for  multiple 
sclerosis  team  which  is  out  to  defeat  Ihe 
great  crippler  of  young  adults:  multiple 
sclerosis. 

Tickets  will  be  sold  al  the  door:  $3 
for  adults  and  $2  for  students. 

Players  will  sign  autographs  at 
halftime. 

Among  the  media  personalities  ex- 
pected to  take  part  are  Joe  Zone,  of 
WNEP-TV;  Keith  Martin,  of  WBRE- 
TV;   Bryon   Blessing,   of  WDAU-TV; 


The  Student  Nurses  of  WACC 
(SNOW)  was  to  have  sponsored  a  tea 
at  the  Park  Home  in  Williamsport 
yesterday,  according  to  Mrs.  Margaret 
H.  McKeehen,  nursing  instructor. 

Cookies  were  made  by  the  BLaST 
Intermediate  Unit  No.  17,  multi-skills 
group.  Finger  sandwiches  were  made 
by  SNOW  members. 

The  entertainment  included  singing, 
led  by  Janet   M.   Kreamer  and  Linda 
VanDerMuellcn.  nursing  students. 
i—BHim— »— 


Reorganization 
outlined 

(I  r„i„  I'uvc  1 1 

Listing  objectives.  Dr.  Feddersen 
said  the  new  structure  is  set  up  to 
"make  Ihe  secondary  faculty  and  staff 
feel  that  ihey  are  not  "secondary',"  but 
an  integral  part  of  the  institution. 

Of  the  present  nine  divisions.  Dr. 
Feddersen  said  three  would  be 
eliminated,  three  altered,  and  three 
would  remain  the  same. 

CHS  Division  erased 
Done  away  with  would  be  Ihe  Com- 
munications. Humanities,  and  Social 
Sciences  Division  (CHS),  now  headed 
by  Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney;  the  Elec- 
trical/Electronics Division,  headed  by 
Donald  O.  Young  Sr..  and  the 
Mathematics.  Science,  and  Allied 
Health  Division,  headed  by  Dr.  Robert 
G.  Bowers. 

In  one  suggested  realignment  of 
divisions,  two  CHS  programs  -  broad- 
casting and  journalism  --  plus  Ihe  ser- 
vice courses  offered  in  CHS  would  be 
transferred  to  the  Engineering  and 
Design  Technologies  Division. 
E/E  Division  deleted 

The  Electric/Electronics  Division 
would  also  fall  into  the  Engineering 
and  Design  Technologies  Division. 
The  Math,  Science,  and  Allied  Health 
Division  would  be  included  in  a  pro- 
posed business  and  health  division 
under  "proposal  one",  altering  the  ex- 
isting Business  and  Computer  Science 
Division. 

A  second  proposal  offered  by  Dr. 
Feddersen  would  relocate  the  Math, 
Science,  and  Allied  Health  Division  in- 
to a  proposed  science  and  health  divi- 
sion, and  would  transfer  CHS  cur- 
ricula into  a  "business  and  ?"  division. 
[Terminology  was  shown  as  a  question 
mark  to  represent  undecided.] 

In  both  proposals  which  were 
presented,  the  Earth  Science  Division, 
Building  Technologies  Division,  and 
the  Transportation  Division  would  re- 
main relatively  the  same. 

Also,  in  "proposal  one",  the 
general  education  division  would  re- 
main as  it  it,  but  it  would  be  included 
in  another  division  under  "proposal 
two". 

Dr.  Feddersen  emphasized  that  Ihe 
proposals  are  not  finalized.  He  said  he 
is  asking  for  suggestions  and  "input" 
about  the  reorganiational  plans. 

The  four  major  schools  of  karate  in 
Japan  are  Shotokan,  Wado-ryu,  Goju- 
ryu,  and  Shito-ryu. 

Polo  is  played  on  the  largest  field  of 
any  ball  game  in  Ihe  world.  The 
ground  measures  300  yards  long  by  160 
yards  wide  with  side  boards  or,  as  in 
India.  200  yards  wide  wilhoul  boards. 


RICK'S  ARCO  MINI  MARKET 


C&  C 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


SELF-SERVICE  ri1;WM4JnAS 
;^  •  CONVENIENCE  ITEMS 
*"^    •  DAIRY  PRODUCTS 

•  HEALTH  &  BEAUTY  AIDS 

STOP  IN  AND  SHOP 


322-1811 


Open  24  Hours 


CORNER  WEST  3RD  &  MAYNARD  STREET 
WILLIAMSPORT 


Monday.  Fab  11.  1960    SPOTLIGHT    9 


'Lifelong 
learning' 
taking  shape 


•  Mc;> 


Princeton,  N.J.  -A  new 
educaiional  trend  is  slowly  taking 
shape  throughout  the  United  Slates- 
adult  education  or,  as  some  call  it, 
"lifelong  learning." 

No  longer  is  education  being 
viewed  as  just  for  the  young.  Instead,  it 
is  increasingly  being  seen  as  an  activity 
to  be  enjoyed  throughout  life. 

"The  lerm  'lifelong  learning' 
is  really  meant  to  embrace  learning 
from  the  cradle  to  the  grave,"  said  Dr. 
K.  Patricia  Cross,  a  research  scientist 
at  Educational  Testing  Services  (ETS) 
in    Berkeley.    Calif. 

Left  forever 

Cross  said  it  is  an  old- 
fashioned  notion  that  adults  have  left 
their  school  days  behind  forever.  The 
enrollment  of  adults  is  rising,  especial- 
ly in  community  colleges,  and  research 
conducted  for  the  Commission  on 
Nontradilional  Study  indicates  that 
there  is  a  massive  move  on  the  part  of 
colleges  to  attract  adult  learners. 

"By  recent  estimates,  one  of 
every  four  adults  is  currently  involved 
in  some  king  of  organized  learning  ac- 
tivity," Cross  said.  "Experts  expect 
that  by  the  year  2000,  when  adults  over 
30  will  make  up  the  majority  of  the 
population,  even  more  adults  will  be 
involved  in  some  form  of  continuing 
education. 

"Colleges  and  universities  are 
particularly  interested  in  adult 
learners,  both  because  the  traditional 
18-year-old  college  student  is  a 
diminishing  commodity  and  because 
the  greatest  demand  for  further  educa- 
tional opportunity  comes  primarily 
from  adults  with  at  least  a  high  school 
education,"  she  said. 

Increases  noted 

Today,  more  than  80  percent 
of  people  between  20  and  24  are  high 
school  graduates.  This  represents  a 
significant  increase  over  the  number  of 
their  parents  and  grandparents  who 
earned  high  school  diplomas. 

And  the  more  formal  educa- 
tion an  adult  has.  Cross  said,  the  more 
likely  he  or  she  is  to  seek  additional 
education. 

But  adults  seeking  new  learn- 
ing experiences  are  not  limited  to  those 
enrolling  in  colleges.  In  the  1970s, 
Cross  pointed  out ,  the  number  of 
adults  attending  adult  schools, 
employer-sponsored  training  pro- 
grams, or  classes  sponsored  by  chur- 
ches, community  organizations  and 
similar  groups  increased  three  times  as 
fast  as  their  numbers  in  the  population. 

While    many    adults    pursue 

learning     for    persona!    satisfaction, 

others     need     it     to     keep     up    with 

technological  advances  in  their  fields. 

Won 't  last 

"This  means  that  no 
educaton  will  last  a  lifetime,"  Cross 
said.  "In  many  career  fields  the  rale  of 
obsolescence  is  now  pegged  at  between 
five  and  ten  years." 

The  tendency  of  states  and 
professional  licensing  agencies  to  man- 
date continuing  education  for  profes- 
sionals, from  accountants  to 
veterinarians,  is  another  sign  of  the 
need  for  lifelong  learning. 


Building  construction  and  technology  students  visited  The  SPOTLIGHT  ulfice  last 
Thursday.  They  observed  journalism  students  "putting  the  paper  together".  Pictured, 
from  left,  are  Franklin  K.  Noll,  James  J.  Delaney.  Bart  A.  Defore,  Dennis  R.  Hackenburg, 
Richard  J.  Snyder,  and  Andy  Patlison.  Other  students  who  visited  included  Sean  J.  Hegar- 
ty,  Anthony  D.  lachini,  and  Glenn  B.  Sanders.  Accompanying  the  group  was  Harold  D. 
Winner,  instructor.    (SPOTLIGHT  Photo  by  Brian  Rippey.) 


PBL  members 
attend  meeting 

A  Pennsylvania  State  Executive 
meeting  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL) 
was  held  at  the  Holiday  Inn-Airport  in 
Pittsburgh  this  past  weekend,  Feb.  9 
and  10.  according  to  Paul.  W. 
Goldfeder,  local  and  state  advisor  for 
PBL. 

Attending  the  meeting  along  with 
Goldfeder  were  Linda  E.  Whaley,  PBL 
secretary,  and  Andy  W.  Weniz,  PBL 
president. 

The  object  of  this  meeting  was  to 
finalize  plans  and  complete  ar- 
rangements for  the  Pennsylvania  Slate 
Leadership  Conference  to  be  held  in 
Pittsburgh  March"  21  through  23. 
Twenty-seven  colleges  from  Penn- 
sylvania will  send  representatives  to 
this  conference.  Goldfeder  added. 


Co-Op  'letter' 
being  published 

The  The  Co-op  Newsletter  is  a 
relatively  new  publication  put  out  by 
the  Cooperative  Education  office. 
Organized  by  William  Bradshaw, 
director  of  cooperative  education  in 
March  of  1978,  the  newsletter  has 
grown  to  an  output  of  400  copies  on  a 
bi-monthly  basis. 

The  newsletter  is  circulated  lo 
area  employers  of  Co-op  students  and 
the  students  themselves.  According  lo 
Bradshaw,  the  paper  keeps  all  those  in- 
volved with  Co-op  informed  as  to 
"what's  going  on." 

According  to  Bradshaw  the 
newsletter  serves  two  main  purposes: 
To  provide  a  source  of  information 
about  Co-op  and  to  provide  informa- 
tion about  Co-op  programs. 

Copies  are  sent  to  students  and 
companies  on  a  standard  mailing  list. 


Photographer 
speaks  at  'Bag' 


Bill  Clemenls.  professional 
photographer,  spoke  on  photography 
at  "Your  Own  Bag",  the  luncheon 
lecture-discussion  series  held  at  the 
College.  Clements  spoke  on  Friday. 
Feb.  1,  in  Room  415,  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Clements,  who  is  owner-operator  of 
Clements  Studios  in  South 
Williamsport,  spoke  about  the  best 
ways  to  take  pictures.  "The  basic 
thing  is  to  keep  things  simple,"  said 
Clements. 

Clements  then  went  on  to  talk  about 
the  equipment  needed  for  good 
photography. 

Clements  said  the  motored  35  mm 
camera  is  handy,  especially  for  sports 
photography  and  when  there  will  be  a 
fast  succession  of  pictures. 

Clemenls  also  explained  certain 
techniques  for  taking  pictures  at  dif- 
ferent angles.  He  recommended  the 
use  of  a  small  tripod  for  taking  close- 
ups  of  anything  near  the  ground.  He 
also  demonstrated  the  use  of  a  zoom 
lens. 


+ 

Keep  Red  Cross 
ready. 


Clements  was  asked  whether  one 
should  carry  camera  equipment  at  all 
times.  He  pointed  out  (here  is  always 
the  possibility  of  the  equipment  being 
stolen.  He  added  he  does  take  his 
equipment  along  on  vacations.  He 
described  a  slide  show  he  made  while 
on  a  windjammer  cruise  in  the  Carri- 
bean. 

Clements  also  spoke  about  portrait 
pictures.  He  expressed  his  opinion  thai 
an  abstract  portrait  isn't  a  true  por- 
trait. "To  me.  a  portrait  is  head  and 
shoulders,"  said  Clements. 

Fleming  joins 
center  staff 

Cole  D.  Fleming  a  forestry  student, 
will  be  available  in  February  to  give 
students  information  about  services 
available  through  the  Career  Develop- 
ment Center,  according  lo  Thomas  C. 
Shoff.  counselor. 

Fleming  is  currently  receiving  infor- 
mation on  various  subjects,  such  as 
resume  writing  and  job  search 
strategies  and  is  acting  as  a  referral  for 
the  career  center.  Shoff  said. 

Shoff  stated  that  this  is  a  new  service 
at  the  College  and  he  hopes  this  project 
will  bring  the  services  of  the  Career 
Development  Center  closer  to  the 
students. 

He  also  added  that  the  student 
development  staff  is  looking  forward 
to  working  with  Fleming  and  planning 
future  development  of  these  services. 

Shoff  asks  that  any  other  students  of 
Earth  Science  who  may  want  to 
volunteer  for  this  activity  should  con- 
tact Thomas  Shoff  in  Room  205. 
Klump  Academic  Center,  at  ext.  246. 


SPOTLIGHT    Monday.  Feb  11.  19 


Food  can  help 


(Frum  Pane  21 

keep  your  resistence  up  and  your  body  in  good 
repair 

Your  body  ages  more  on  Ihe  days  you  don't  gel 
enough  protein  because  your  body's  ability  to 
maintain  itself  is  tiampered 
Fats 
Fats  are  very  important,  even  ttiose  dieting 
sliouidn't  exclude  ttiem  from  the  diet  The  (al  solu- 
ble vitamins  A.  D.  and  E  cant  travel  to  all  the 
places  they're  needed  unless  they're  transported 
by  fatty  acids. 

Carbohydrates 

Carbohydrates  provide  the  body  with  its  chief 
supply  of  energy  So  when  these  are  subtracted 
from  the  diet,  your  body  tires  quickly  Car- 
bohydrates can't  be  used  as  fuel  unless  B-  com- 
plex vitamins  are  present.  The  B-  complex 
vitamins  work  synergistically  or,  they  cooperate 
with  the  carbohydrates  to  cause  chemical  reac- 
tions to  occur 

The  best  source  of  B-  complex  vitamins  are 
breakfast  cereals  -  so.  remember  to  eat  breakfast 
each  day! 

Vitamin  C 

Vitamin  C  is  essential  for  the  formation  of  col- 
lagen. Ihe  connective  tissue  that  helps  keep  your 
skin  supple  and  elastic 

It's  necessary  to  obtain  vitamin  C  every  day 
because  it  isn't  stored  in  the  body  Smokers  re- 
quire more  vitamin  C  because  with  every  cigarel 
smoked  25  milligrams  of  vitamin  C  are  destroyed. 

Vitamin  A 

Vitamin  A  is  essential  for  the  health  of  the  skin. 
Since  acne  is  a  form  of  skin  disease,  it  would 
seem  only  logical  that  consuming  proper  amounts 
of  vitamin  A  would  relieve  the  problem 

This,  in  part,  is  true  However,  there  are  other 
factors  related  to  the  cause  of  acne  Heredity, 
age.  fluctuations  in  stress,  and  sex  hormone  levels 


are  a  few  that  play  a  part  in  how  your  complexion 
IS  determined 

If  you  are  one  who  suffers  from  acne  and  have 
tried  many  ol  the  prescribed  medicines  with  un- 
successful results,  try  following  this  menu  plan 
and  see  if  you  don't  have  some  successful  results, 
A  Suggested  iMenu  Plan 
The  following  menu  plan  should  help  you 
decide  what  to  consume  and  how  much  to  con- 
sume to  obtain  and  maintain  healthy  skin 

1  Two  or  more  servings  of  a  complete  protein 
food  such  as  meal,  fish,  eggs,  cheese,  or  poultry 

2  Two  or  more  pieces  of  fresh  fruit  or  8  to  1 2 
ounces  of  fruit  juice 

3  Four  or  more  servings  of  unprocessed 
whole-grain  bread  or  cereal, 

4  Two  or  more  servings  of  yellow  or  leafy 
green  vegetables  At  least  one  serving  should  be 
in  Ihe  raw  form 

5  One  teaspoon  of  vegetable 

6  Include  8  to  10  ounces  of  fluids  and  1  to  2 
tablespoons  of  fiber  each  day  to  insure  proper 
elimination  of  wastes.  These  can  aid  in  your  acne 
problem 

In  closing  remember  that  some  of  the  anti- 
biotics prescribed  by  doctors  disturb  absorption  of 
important  nutrients 

You  should  therefore  take  antibiotics  two  hours 
after  breakfast  (or  any  meal)  and  at  least  one  hour 
before  a  meal,  thus  giving  the  body  sometime  to 
absorb  vitamins  before  the  medication  can  in- 
terfere 

Remember  your  skin  is  the  largest  organ  of 
your  body  and  needs  proper  care  such  as  cleans- 
ing, some  protection,  and  good  circulation.  When 
one  touches  or  applies  pressure  al  an  infeqied 
area,  it  is  damaged  and  infection  spreads  very 
easily  to  nearby  areas  Acne  sufferers  have  to 
work  to  keep  fingers  away  from  their  faces  while 
studying 


Library  exhibits 
local  art  work 

The  works  ol  Mr-.,  loanne  Judy 
Kunze.  a  local  artist,  are  being  ex- 
hibited this  month  in  the  Community 
Room  of  the  James  V.  Brown  Library 
in  downtown  Williamsporl. 

Included  are  paintings  and 
drawings. 

[Vlrs.  Kunze  works  not  only  in 
oils  and  walercolors  but  also  in 
paslel.charcoal,  scralchboard,  pencil, 
and  clay. 

Her  work  has  been  on  exhibit 
locally  and  in  many  shows  and  galleries 
including  the  Loyalsock  Art  Gallery, 
Ohev  Sholom  Synagogue,  and  the  Mill 
Craft  Shop  at  Trout  Run. 

The  show  is  open  to  the  public 
and  will  continue  until  Friday.  Feb.  29. 

Journalism 
advisory  unit 
meets  this  week 

Local  and  area  members  of  the 
Journalism  Advisory  Committee  are 
expected  to  attend  the  annual  jour- 
nalism curriculum  meeting  Wednesday 
on  campus. 

The  meeting  brings  together 
professional  persons,  former  students, 
and  current  students. 

The  meeting  will  begin  with  din- 
ner prepared  andserved  by  the  College 
food  service  students.  A  short  business 
session  will  follow.  Later,  the  advisory 
committee  will  review  current  phases 
of  the  journalism  program  and  offer 
recommendations. 


The  Nobel  Foundation  of  $8.96  million 
was  set  up  under  the  will  of  Alfred  Bern- 
hard  Nobel  (1833-18%),  Swedish  chemist 
and  chemical  engineer  who  invented  dyna- 
mite in  1866. 


Free  agency,  color...   highlighted  baseball 


(From  Page  7) 


Clemente's  death  shocks  tans 

On  the  sadder  side  of  major  league  baseball,  three  stars  died 
tragically  Roberto  Clemente.  a  Pirate  legend,  died  in  a  plane  crash 
trying  to  help  earthquake  victims 

Thurman  (ilunson.  Yankee  field  captain,  also  was  killed  in  a  plane 
wreck  Ikflunson  was  flying  home  to  be  with  his  family  on  a  rare  day 
off  when  his  private  plane  crashed 

Ivlurdered  was  California  Angel  outfielder  Lyman  Bostock, 
Bostock.  who  started  his  career  in  fvllnnesota.  never  got  the 
chance  to  be  the  big  star  that  his  talent  pointed  out  he  would  be. 
Little  League  pressure  Intense 
In  Little  league,  the  pressure  being  put  on  nine  to  1 2  year  old 
kids  was  greater  than  in  the  major  leagues.   Kids  were  pushed  by 
parents  and  managers  to  win  at  all  costs 

Youngsters  supposedly  out  to  have  a  good  time  were  taught  all 
aspects  of  the  game  Some  managers  even  ordered  pitchers  to 
throw  at  opposing  hitters  to  "keep  them  honest" 

IVleanwhile.  proud  parents  were  in  the  stands  cursing  at  umpires 
and  the  manager  These  actions  ridiculed  the  Little  Leaguers  aim 
for  good  sportsmanship 

Taiwan  excluded 
In  little  league,  the  pressure  being  put  on  nine  to  1 2  year  old 
so  that  they  were  excluded  from  the  series  for  one  year     After  be- 
ing readmitted,  the  Far  Easterners  again  won  the  Series, 
Minor  leagues  suffered 
It  was  not  a  good  decade  for  minor  league  clubs  in  this  area 
The  Mets.  Astros,  and  Indians  all  passed  through  Williamsport  with 
minor  league  clubs     Without  the  support  of  local  fans   Ihe  clubs 


packed  up  and  moved  elsewhere  after  money-losing  adventures 
at  Bowman  Field 

Two  fine  prospects  came  out  of  Bowman  Field  from  the 
Cleveland  organization  that  called  themselves  the  Tomahawks. 
Alfredo  Griffin,  shortstop  for  Williamsport  in  '78.  now  is  starting  for 
the  Toronto  Blue  Jays  Wayne  Cage,  first  baseman  on  the  same 
team,  now  is  DM  and  first  baseman  for  the  Cleveland  Indians. 
Talk  arose  at  the  end  of  the  decade  about  moving  another  team 
in  the  Eastern  League  somewhere  into  this  area  of  the  state 
Williamsport  Is  one  of  the  cities  being  considered  If  a  team  is  to 
move  into  Bowman  Field,  it  will  have  to  be  renovated  The  question 
is  who  will  pay  for  it 

Not  a  bad  decade 
All  told,  it  was  a  pretty  good  decade  for  baseball  at  all  levels  At- 
tendance in  most  fvlajor  League  cities  was  up  The  more  a  team 
won,  the  more  fans  attended-as  was  evident  by  over  three  million 
fans  who  attended  Dodger  games  in  '78  when  the  club  won  the 
National  League  pennant 

The  Oakland  As  also  helped  to  prove  this  point  as  they  ac- 
cumulated one  of  the  lowest  attendance  figures  of  all  time  while 
they  were  occupying  the  basement  of  the  Amencan  League  West. 

Heading  into  the  80's  with  a  new  season  beginning,  a  lot  of 
questions  must  arise  from  baseball  fans  Where  will  the  free  agen- 
cy end?  How  high  will  their  salanes  go?  Is  Jim  Rice  on  his  way  to 
break  Hank  Aaron's  home  run  record?  How  far  can  Dave  Kingaman 
hit  a  ball?  And  will  the  Chicago  Cubs  ever  win  a  National  League 
pennant? 


ENERGY.       We  can't  afford  to  waste  it. 


World  of  Work 

Listings  for  World  of  Work  are  provided  by  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director,  Col- 
lege Placement  Office,  Room  209,  Klump  Academic  Center.  Inquiries  should 
be  directed  to  that  office. 


CAREER  JOBS 

Business  manager  —  Manager  trainee,  Lerner  Shop,  Lycoming  Mall,  Mun- 
cy.  Pa.  17756.  Apply  Miss  Werts,  manager.  Forty  hours  a  week,  alternating 
Sundays. 

Business  accountant  --  World  Resources  Co.,  1600  Anderson  Road, 
McLean,  Va.  22102.  Apply  Mrs.  Kathryn  MacLane,  vice  president,  (703) 
355-2400.  Assist  controller:  financial  statements,  budget,  cash  flow,  tax 
return,  analysis  of  possible  acquistions. 

Clerical  -  Phillips  Kramer  and  Hoffman  Associates  (CPA),  416  Pine  St., 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.    Apply  Mr.  Hoffman  or  Mr.  Hartman. 

Architectural,  Mechanical,  Drafting,  Engineering  Drafting,  Technical  Il- 
lustration, Tool  Design  -  E&A  Design,  2-8  East  Market  St.,  Corning,  N.Y. 
14830.  Apply  Ms.  Rebecca  McMann,  (607)  962-3179.  This  is  private  engineer- 
ing placemen!  service. 

Architectural  Draftsmen-Anton  Waldmann  and  Associates,  South  Broad 
St,  Hughesville,  Pa.  17737  Apply  Paul  Moore,  manager,  717-584-2171.  More 
blueprint  drawings  for  department  store  layouts  such  as  counters,  restaurant 
areas,  heating,  lighting,  window  displays,  etc. 

Computer  Programmer -R&R  Construction  Co.,  1315  South  Allen  St., 
Slate  College,  Pa.  Apply  Jim  Janosky,  call  814-237-2791.  Prepare  data  for 
computer  system,  input  and  operation. 

Secretarial  (executive)-Bro-Dart  Industries,  1609  Memorial  Ave., 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.  Apply  Ms.  Marilyn  Rund,  call  326-2461.  Executive 
secretary  to  vice-president. 

Electrical  Construction  and  Electrical  Technician-John  Hefty  Systems, 
Box  157,  Watsonlown  Pa.  17777.  Apply  Brad  Hefty,  717-538-2591.  This  is  not 
a  full  time  job  but  for  a  graduate  having  own  business. 

Clerical-The  Standard  Register  Co.,  P.O.  Box  1241,  Suite  207-209,  460 
Market  St.,  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.  Apply  Mr.  Lindon  Dunkleberger, 
326-1292.    Receptionist  and  clerical  duties. 

LPN -Private  duty  in  home,  24  hours  a  week.  Phone  322-2696  between  3:30 
and  7  n.m. 

X-Kay  Technician-Registered  or  registry  eligible,  apply  director  of  person- 
nel.   Soldiers    &    Sailors    Memorial    Hospital    Wellsboro,    Pa.       16901. 
717-724-1632,  ext.  285. 

Medical  Secretary-Muncy  Valley  Hospital,  P.O.  Box  340,  Muncy  Pa. 
17756.    Apply  Ms.  Barnhart,  personnel  administrator. 

X-Ray  Technician-Temporary  position  for  February  to  May;  40  hours  per 
week,  rotation  weekends  and  holidays,  4  p.m.  to  inidnight  with  occasional  8 
a.m.  to  4  p.m.  Apply  Ms.  Barnhart,  personnel  adminisrator,  Muncy  Valley 
Hospital,  P.O.  Box  340,  Muncy,  Pa.    17756. 


Part-time 

Hertz  Rent-A-Car  need  counter  people.  Saturday  10  a.m.  to  4  p.m.;  Sun- 
day, 1  p.m.  to  11:10  p.m.    Apply  in  person  at  140  East  Third  St. 

Kitchen  helper-20  hours  a  week.  Apply  in  person  Monday  thru  Friday,  10 
a.m.  to  4  p.m.  at  White  Deer  Run,  Devitl's  Camp  Road,  Allenwood,  Pa. 

Shipping    Clerk-$2.95    per    hour.       9    p.m.    to    1    a.m.    shifts. 
Apply  Bro-Dart  Industries.  Arch  Street  Willaimsport,  Pa.    17701. 

Carpentry  student  to  work  weekends  remodeling  building.    Apply  Mr. 
Logue  at  323-1450. 

Clerk-General  office  work,  duplicating,  filing,  and  mailing.  8:30  to  1  p.m. 
five  days  per  week.  Apply  Merrill.  Lynch.  Pierce.  Fenner  and  Smith  Inc.. 
Hepburn  Plaza.    See  Ms.  Susan  Kastle  or  call  326-1781. 


On-Campus  Recruiting 

Valley  Design,  Johnson  City.  N.Y.  will  recruit  tomorrow  for  technicial  il- 
lustrators, mechanical  and  engineering  draftsmen. 

Eastman  Kodak.  Rochester.  N.Y.  will  recruit  Feb.  19  and  20  for  computer 
programmers,  electrical  technicians,  engineering  draftsmen,  mechanical  draft- 
smen, and  tool  designmen. 

United  Tech.  Reading,  will  recruit  for  electrical  technicians,  electrical  con- 
struction, mechanical  drafting,  tool  design,  engineering  design,  and  electrical 
technicians. 

Berg  Electronics.  York,  will  recruit  Feb.  21  for  machinists  and  tool  makers. 
Kennedy  Von  Saun.  Danville,  will  recruit  Feb.  27  for  mechanical  draftsmen 
and  engineering  draftsmen. 

GTE  Sylvania.  Emporium  will  recruit  March  5  for  mechanical  draftsmen 
and  electrical  technicians. 

FHS  International.  Harrisburg.  will  recruit  March  5. 

IBM,  Burlington,  Vermont,  is  accepting  applications  for  electronic  techni- 
cians. For  information  go  to  campus  placement  office,  Foom  209,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 


Official 
gives  lecture 

County  Commissioner  Galen  D. 
Castlebury  spoke  to  a  governmeni  class 
in  the  College  about  county  govern- 
ment and  its  relationship  to  state 
government  on  Monday,  Feb.  4.  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle  is  instructor  of  the 
class. 

Castlebury  served  as  commissioner 
from  1972  to  1976.  He  was  elected 
again  in  1979  to  serve  the  1980  to  1984 
term. 

Castlebury  slated  the  reason  county 
governmeni  is  growing  is  the  federal 
and  stale  governments  have  too  many 
problems  and  are  giving  more  and 
more  responsibility  to  the  counties. 

Castlebury  pointed  out  it  is  the  duty 
of  the  county  to  administer  state  laws. 
The  county's  duties  include  running 
county,  city,  and  borough  elections, 
and  setting  up  an  occupational  tax 
scale.  The  county  also  assesses  proper- 
ty at  its  fair  market  value. 

Castlebury  also  talked  about  the  in- 
creasing cost  of  governmeni.  He  said 
the  state  usually  provided  the  Crippled 
Children's  Society  with  $8400.  The 
state  has  now  cut  off  these  funds,  he 
said.  The  Society  then  came  to  the 
county  looking  for  these  funds. 
Castlebury  pointed  out,  "What  do  you 
say  to  the  Crippled  Children's 
Society?" 

Castlebury  said  his  guess  is  the 
answer  will  be  "no". 

The  county  just  doesn't  have  the 
money,  he  said. 

The  odds  for  an  exact  duplication  of  a 
fingerprint  are  about  64,000.000.000  to  1. 


Monday,  Feb.11.  1980         SPOTLIGHT     11 


Galen  D.  Castlebury 
...talks  about  county  government 

Food  Service  students 
plan  trip  to  Ohio  Pile 

The  Food  Service  Student  Organiza- 
tion has  made  a  major  change  in  their 
trip  planned  for  Cedar  Point  this  Spr- 
ing. According  to  Rick  J.  Burick. 
Food  Service  Secretary,  the  organiza- 
tion will  now  be  going  to  Ohio  Pile,  a 
resort-recreation  area  near  downtown 
Pittsburgh. 

The  reason  for  this  change.  Burick 
said,  was  the  result  of  confusion  con- 
cerning 4he  reservations  for  Cedar 
Point. 

The  greatest  distance  walked  by  a 
person  continuously  balancing  an  empty 
pint  milk  bottle  on  the  head  is  15  miles  and 
1,738  yards  by  William  Charlton  at  Daven- 
port. Tasmania  on  June  4. 1972. 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents. 


Tonight 

7:30 
Klump 
Academic 
Center 

Next  Week... 


''The 
Battle 

of 
Algiers 


>> 


With  Subtitles 


Horror  Double-Bill! 
"It  Lives  Again" 

B/W 

"Horror  of  Dracula" 

Announcements 
For  next  week's  double  bill,  "Crash"  has 
changed  lo  "Horror  of  Dracula". 


Due  to  circumstances  beyond  our  control,  "Roll- 
ing Thunder  "  on  March  10  will  have  an  admission  of 
$1.00.    Other  free  admissions  still  stand. 


•(  2         SPOTLIOHT     Monday.  F«b.  11.  1880 


Bulletin  Board 

MOVIE 

"The   Bailie  of  Algiers",   7:30  lonighl,    Klump   Academic  Ccnier 
Auditorium,  free  admission. 

MEETINGS 
Student  Government  Association,  Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center,  4 
p.m.,  tomorrow. 

Commencement  Committee.  2  p.m..  tomorrow.  Room  207,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Circle  K,  3:30  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Klump  Academic  Center  Cafeteria. 

WINTER  EVENTS 

Skiing  party.  5  p.m..  Wednesday,  bus  at  Bardo  Gym  to  Oregon  Hill. 
SKATE-ATHON 

Benefit  the  diabetes  fund,  begins  10  p.m.,  Sunday  and  goes  to  8  a.m.,  Mon- 
day, at  Great  Skate. 

SPORTS 

Wrestling.  7  p.m.,  tomorrow,  away.  Penn  Slate  University  Berks  Campus. 
Wrestling,  8  p.m..  Wednesday,  away,  Luzerne  County  Community  College. 
Men's  basketball.  7  p.m.,  Thursday,  home.  Lock  Haven  State  College. 
Men's  basketball.  9  p.m.,  Saturday,  away,  Aloysius  Junior  College. 
Women's  basketball.  7  p.m..  Saturday.  Aloysius  Junior  College. 

MAY  GRADUATES  NOTICE 
Friday  is  the  last  day  for  May  graduates  to  file  petition  for  graduation. 
March  I  is  the  deadline  lor  ordering  caps  and  gowns  at  the  bookstore, 

Interclub  Council  hears 
about  woodsmen's  event 


Trustees  grant  approval 
to  radio  station  WW  AS 


Hy  Brian 

The  Interclub  Council  mei  lasi  Tues- 
day aliernoon  in  Room  132.  Klump 
Academic  Center.  Six  clubs  were 
represented  al  the  meeting. 

Forms  were  handed  out  by  (he  year- 
book staff.  The  forms  arc  to  be  filled 
out  by  a  club  representative  stating  a 
time  the  club  pictures  will  be  taken  for 
the  yearbook. 

The  forms  are  lo  be  completed  and 
sent  to  the  records  office.  A  week's 
notice  should  be  given  for  the  club  pic- 
tures. This  will  allow  time  to  assign  a 
photographer,  according  to  the  year- 
book staff  representative. 

Koreslry  Club  sels  dale 

The  Forestry  Club  has  set  a  date  for 
a  Woodsmen's  Competition,  the  coun- 
cil was  told.  Six  other  colleges  will  be 
invited  io  the  competition  to  be  held 
Saturday.  April  19. 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  Club 
representative  reported  on  a  volleyball 
marathon  to  be  held  Friday,  Feb.  22. 
and  Saturday.  Feb.  23,  in  the  Bardo 
Gym.  The  event  is  scheduled  to  run  for 
24  hours. 

The  marathon  proceeds  will  go  to 
the  Divine  Providence  Hospital's 
Renal  Dialysis  Unit.  The  club,  it  was 
reported,    is   hoping   the   competition 

Old  equipment 
sold  at  auction 

An  auction  to  sell  obsolete 
machinery  was  held  Jan.  31  and  Feb.  4. 
but.  according  to  James  McMahon. 
administrative  assistant,  the  auction 
did  not  go  well. 

McMahon  said  the  equipment  was 
old  and  mostly  junk,  although  it  could 
have  been  used  for  parts.  Some  bids 
were  made  -  mostly  on  printing  equip- 
ment -  he  added. 

The  College  hadn't  planned  to  make 
much  profit  from  the  auction,  said 
McMahon. 

A  property  survey  board  will  meet 
later  this  month  to  decide  which  bids 
will  be  accepted. 

Noah's  Ark  was  450  fool  long.  75 
foot  wide  and  45  foot  high. 


Rippe 

K.KI  Slalf 

will  be  club  against  club.  Each  club 
would  then  get  a  sponsor  to  pay  a  cer- 
tain rate  per  hour  they  play. 

Clubs  from  Lycoming  College  have 
been  invited  to  participate  in  the  fund- 
raising  event. 

Any  club  interested  in  joining  in  the 
fund-raising  event  may  contact  Donna 
E.  Houseknccht.  marathon  chairman. 
Skale-alhon  discussed 

The  council  also  discussed  a  skate- 
athon  to  benefit  the  fight  against 
diabetes.  A  stereo  will  be  awarded  to 
the  person  collecting  the  most  money. 
The  skaie-athon  --  which  will  be  held  at 
Great  Skate  --  will  begin  at  10  p.m.. 
Sunday.  Feb.  17.  and  last  until  8  Mon- 
day morning. 

Anyone  wishing  to  participate  must 
have  five  sponsors  lo  gain  free  admis- 
sion for  the  skate-athon.  A  rate  should 
be  pledged  for  each  15  minutes. 

Besides  supporting  the  skate-athon. 
clubs  were  asked  to  raise  money  to  help 
the  fight  against  diabetes. 

A  committee  was  appointed  to  plan 
a  dinner  for  later  in  the  semester.  At 
the  dinner,  students  will  be  recognized 
for  achievements. 


HOURS 
7  a.m. 


4  p.m 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 
/special  this  weei\ 

I  With  Any  I 

I  Whole  Cheese  Steak  Sub  I 

or 
I  Grilled  Ham  &  Cheese  S  I 

lA30f  DRINK  FREE  J 
alio  *s  Special  Service: 

...  tail  ahead  far  lake-oul  orders 

and  we'll  have  the  order  ready  for  you  lo 

322-1321 

Across  (rem  Klump 
Open  for  Breakfast...  7  a.m. 
Breakfast  served  'lit  10:30  a.m. 


Radio  station  WW  AS  was  officially 
granted  approval  for  FM  operation  by 
the  Board  of  Trustees  at  last  weeks 
meeting,  according  to  Clifford  C.  Hor- 
ton,  advisor. 

Although  the  station  has  official 
sanction  from  the  Trustees,  a  license 
for  operation  must  be  approved  by  the 
Federal  Communications  Commission 
(FCC)  before  the  station  is  actually 
"official",  said  Horton. 

The  station  will  soon  be  adding 
student-oriented  broadcast  programs 
in  a  continuing  effort  lo  open  the  com- 
munication lines  between  studensts  and 
faculty.  Horton  said. 

One  of  these  possibilities  is  an  on-air 
open  forum  between  students,  faculty, 
and  administration.  The  program 
would  be  entitled  "Open  Forum". 
Norton  said. 

Another  possibility  is  an  on-air  talk 
show    about    sports,    called    "Sports 


Line",  he  added. 

Horton  said  there  will  be  a  grand 
opening  celebration  when  the  license  is 
approved  by  the  FCC. 

The  student  whose  name  is  chosen  as 
the  winner  of  the  "Guess  the  Day" 
contest  will  be  announced  and 
presented  with  the  albums  at  the 
celebration,  said  Horton. 

Concerning  the  problems  the  station 
has  been  having  with  the  transmitter, 
Horton  said,  "..there  are  still  a  couple 
of  problems  with  the  transmitter  but 
it's  working  pretty  well  now." 

According  to  Horton,  the  FCC  re- 
tains regulatory  control  of  the  station 
once  the  license  is  approved.  Among 
their  rules  and  regulations  is  one  which 
prohibits  the  broadcasting  of  editorials 
on  a  collegiate  radio  station. 

The  FCC  also  retains  the  right  to  in- 
spect the  station  at  any  time  and  to  en- 
force regulatory  changes,  Horton  add- 
ed. 


'Care  lo  join  me  in  a  cold  Stroh's?" 
Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 
Fifth  Avenue 
Wiiliamsport  ^^ 

323-3237  For  the  real  beer  lover. 


Monday.  Feb.  18,  1980 

Vol.  IS,  No.  20 

8  Pages 


ePBtPILCBCDU 


Wllllamsport 

Area 

Community 

College 

Wtlllamspon.  Pa. 


College  keeps  trying: 
flasher  bids  coming  in 


Wallace  "Skip"  G.  Kozen,  engineering  drafting  sludenl  from  Williamsporl, 
has  been  elected  most  outstanding  member  of  the  Society  of  Manufacturing 
Engineers  (SME).  Kozen  will  be  a  May  graduate  of  the  College.  He  will 
receive  a  cerlificate  of  recognition  al  commencement. 

Senior  pictures   ready  tomorrow 


Senior  pictures  are  in,  according 
to  Alton  E.  Olatfelter,  editor  in  charge 
of  the  yearbooit  student  section. 

Pictures  may  be  piclted  up 
tomorrow  and  Wednesday  at  the  loca- 
tion where  (hey  were  lal^en.  Glalfelier 
said. 

Resume  writing 
workshops  set 
for  Thursday 

Two  workshops  will  be  held  at  7 
p.m.  this  Thursday  and  at  3  p.m.  next 
Tuesday,  Feb.  26,  according  to 
Lawrence  W.  Emery,  director, 
counseling  and  career  development. 

The  workshop  on  Thursday  will 
be  concerned  with  resume  writing  and 
the  workshop  scheduled  for  next  week 
deals  with  job  search  strategies,  he 
said. 

The  workshops  are  free,  he 
pointed  out. 

Additional  information  is 
available  from  the  Career  Develop- 
ment Center.  Room  210.  Klump 
Academic  Center  or  by  lelephot.  ing 
Extension  247,  Emery  said. 

WACC  Women  meet 
Wednesday  at  YWCA 

The  WACC  Women's 
Organization  will  meet  this  Wednesday 
at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  YWCA,  according 
to  Mrs.  Jan  M.  Newton,  president.  The 
program  is  entitled,  "What  the  'Y'  has 
to  offer  you,"  she  said. 

A  short  business  meeting  will 
follow  to  discuss  plans  for  the  re- 
mainder of  the  year,  she  announced. 

Those  planning  to  attend  are 
asked  to  bring  their  favorite  recipes 
along  to  be  included  in  the  WACC 
Women  Cookbook,  she  said.  The 
cookbook  is  being  compiled  for  fall 
printing,  she  added. 


Earth  Science  students  may  pick 
up  their  photos  on  Wednesday  and 
Thursday,  he  said. 

Information  for  the  purchase  of 
pictures  will  be  available  when  the  pic- 
lures  are  picked  up,  Giatfelter  added. 

Students  are  to  pick  the  pose 
they  want  to  appear  in  the  yearbook, 
he  noted.  The  deadline  for  choosing 
the  picture  is  next  Monday,  Feb.  25. 
Yearbook  representatives  will  be  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  Lounge  to 
receive  choice  decisions. 

On  Tuesday,  Feb.  26,  choice 
decisions  may  be  delivered  in  the 
Parkes  Automotive  Building,  and  on 
Wednesday,  Feb.  27,  at  the  Earth 
Science  Building. 

Pictures  may  be  ordered  when 
the  pose  decision  is  given  or  by  mail, 
Giatfelter  said. 


B;  Jan  Daniel 

or  Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  Surt 

Efforts  continue  in  an  endeavor 
to  alleviate  the  hazards  to  students 
crossing  West  Third  Street,  according 
to  Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean  for  stu- 
dent and  career  development. 

On  Sept.  21,  1978,  the 
Williamsporl  City  Council  passed  a 
resolution  to  submit  an  application  to 
the  Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Transportation  (PENNDOT)  for  the 
erection  of  two  flashing  devices  on 
West  Third  Street.  The  request  was  ap- 
proved by  PENNDOT  in  July  1979. 

According  to  John  J.  Grado, 
economic  development  administrator 
for  the  city  of  Williamsporl,  the  major 
holdup  has  been  waiting  for  bids  for 
the  work  to  come  in. 

Grado  said  one  bid  has  been 
received  from  Quinn  Electric  Com- 
pany, of  South  Williamsport. 

A  bid  from  Koser  Electric  Com- 
pany, also  of  South  WiUiamsport,  is 
expected  "within  the  next  week", 
Grado  said. 

Dean  Heiney  said  he  has  sup- 
plied all  necessary  information  to 
PENNDOT  for  the  installation  of  the 
devices. 

The  needed  information,  re- 
quested by  PENNDOT  m  a  leilcr  dated 
Jan.  30,  1979,  included  the  average 
number  of  students  crossing  Third 
Street  per  day,  peak  limes  of  student 
crossings,  and  school  bus  traffic.  Dean 
Heiney  said. 

PENNDOT  officials  told  Dean 
Heiney,  he  reported,  that  the  approval 
would  be  granted  within  two  to  three 
weeks  after  the  information  was  receiv- 
ed. 

The  estimate  for  the  installa- 
tion, cost  of  materials,  and  labor  given 
at  that  time  was  about  $2,000,  the  dean 
said. 

Also  included  in  the  proposal 
was  a  request  for  lowering  the  speed 


David  C.  Dinger  decks  his  Berks  opponent  in  the  first  period.    The  Wildcats 
won  their  their  home  finale  46-7.  See  story,  related  photo.  Page  3. 


limit  to  3S  and  pamting  crosswalks 
across  Third  Street,  he  said. 

Both  of  these  requests  were  ap- 
proved and  have  been  accomplished, 
he  added. 

As  soon  as  the  second  bid  is 
received  from  Koser  Electric,  the  bids 
will  be  opened  by  PENNDOT  officials 
and  forwarded  lo  the  College,  Dean 
Heiney  said. 

Koser  Electric  has  been  held  up 
in  submitting  their  bid  because  of  dif- 
ficulty in  locating  a  particular  piece  of 
equipment,  according  to  the  dean. 

When  the  bids  are  received  by 
the  College,  a  contractor  can  then  be 
selected  and  work  could  start  "almost 
immediately".  Dean  Heiney  said. 

Budgetary  allowances  for  the 
devices  had  been  made  in  the  1979 
fiscal  year,  according  to  Dean  Heiney. 

The  College  now  is  in  the  1980 
fiscal  year.  Dean  Heiney  said,  and  no 
specific  allocations  have  been  made  for 
the  devices. 

However,  he  added,  when  the 
installation  of  the  devices  becomes  im- 
minent, "the  money  will  be  found." 

Early  morning 
fire  damages 
storage  building 

By  Jack  Rickert 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slafr 

A  Tire  that  heavily  damaged  a 
shed  on  Susquehanna  Street  last  Thurs- 
day morning  was  apparently  caused  by 
a  leaking  LP  gas  lank. 

According  to  Lawrence  P. 
Smeak,  head  of  security,  the  fire  was 
discovered  at  5:35  a.m.  Fire  equip- 
ment arrived  at  about  5:40  a.m.  The 
flames  were  contained  in  about  an 
hour,  he  said. 

Custodians  in  the  Bardo  Gym 
and  in  the  Lair  as  well  as^security  of- 
ficers were  among  the  first  to  discover 
the  blaze,  said  Smeak. 

A  hissing  sound  and  muffled  ex- 
plosion were  heard,  Smeak  reported. 
He  added  that  the  brick  walls  of  the 
building  were  separated  and  several 
bricks  were  hurled  across  the  street. 

The  building  was  formerly  used 
for  restrooms  before  the  football 
stadium  was  razed.  At  the  time  of  the 
fire.  Lundy  Construction  Company 
was  using  it  as  a  storage  area  for  the 

GET  planning  to  hold 
Wednesday  bake  sale 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  will 
hold  a  bake  sale  from  9  to  noon  this 
Wednesday  in  the  lobby  of  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

According  to  Miss  Roxanne  M. 
Roach,  vice  president  of  the  organiza- 
tion, a  variety  of  baked  goods  will  be 
sold. 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

What  does 

freedom 

mean  to  you? 


Interviews  and  photos 

by 

Trudy  M.  Shively 

01  Tha  SPOTLIGHT  Stall 

Keith  M  Whitesel.  electrical  construction, 
of  MiHIintown  "Being  able  to  do  yout  own  thing 
without  being  questioned  or  hassled  by  it " 

James  A.  Yeager,  electrical  construction, 
ol  Numidia:  "It's  not  being  held  captive  by  any 
other  country  and  staying  out  ol  trouble  with 
foreign  counthes  " 

William  P  Phoenix,  electrical  construction, 
ol  Mill  Hall  "The  ability  to  run  my  lile  the  way  I 
want  without  being  ruled  by  the  problems  of  the 
world " 

Thomas  W.  Reichenbach,  electrical  con- 
struction, ol  Eyers  Grove  "Being  tree  to  do 
whatever  you  want  without  the  government  in- 
terfering ' 

Donald  G.  Hutlman,  electrical  construction, 
ol  Wyalusing:  "To  do  what  you  want  without  any 
drawbacks " 

Patrick  A  Thomas,  electrical  construction, 
ol  Hastings:  "Doing  whatever  you  want  to  do 
whenever  you  want  to  " 

Scott  A  Godlrey,  electrical  technology,  ol 
Selinsgrove;  "To  be  the  person  I  want  to  be  " 


YOU  ^^/'"9   YOU 
for 


Beauty  or  the  Beast 

Editor's  Nole  The  tollowing  column  is  mitten  on  an  alternating 
basis  by  Dietetic  Jecrtnician  students  ol  trie  College  Opinions 
expressei^  may  or  may  not  rellect  the  opinion  ol  The 
SPOTLIGHT 

By  Jamie  Gardner 

There's  another  side  to  eating  for  beauty. 
Some  foods  have  a  negative  ellect  on  looks- 
Walch  out  for: 

—Caffeine:  Drinking  too  much  coffee,  lea, 
or  cola  drinks  can  drain  some  of  the  B  vitamins 
Irom  your  body  (Mothers,  note:  one  cola  lor  a  six- 
year-old  child  is  equal  to  lour  cups  ol  colfee  in  his 
system.)  A  good  source  of  B  vitamins  are  wheat 
germ,  pork,  milk,  peanuts,  and  bananas.  If  you're 
Please  turn  to  Page  4 


Member  of  The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 
and  of  Pennsylvania  Collegiate  Press  Association 


The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 

Reporters 

Janice  L   Daniel 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene 

Features  and 

Lana  M    Apker 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Robert  J    Allen 

John  F   Zelewicz 

John  L   Rickert 

Sports  Editor 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Leslie  M   Rogers 

Chief  Photographer 

Trudy  M    Shively 

Timothy  A   Toth 

Cindy  M   Snook 

Advertising  Representative 

Larry  G   Steele 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Robert  E   Thomas 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Faculty  Advisor 

Michael  T   Lekites 

Production  Team  This  Issue 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene,  supervisor, 
Trudy  M   Shively,  Gail  M    Thompson,  and  Jack  L   Rickert 


orrame  C     Rom 


Film  festival  features 
sports;  starts  Thursday 


.  off  uKainsI  (.rii;  (  oDpcr  (if  Berks.   The  bout  ended  7-5,  Cooper. 


The  Communications, 

Humanities,  and  Social  Sciences  Divi- 
sion of  the  College  will  sponsor  a  film 
festival  entitled  "Sports  in  Films",  ac- 
cording to  Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  pro- 
fessor of  government  and  history. 

The  festival  will  run  on  con- 
secutive Thursdays,  starting  this 
Thursday,  with  the  last  presentation  set 
for  March  20. 

The  first  film  will  be  "Olym- 
piad -  Part  1".  The  film  is  a  pro- 
paganda film  made  for  Nazi  Germany 
by  Leni  Riefenstahl.  It  covers  the  1936 
Olympics  which  were  held  in  Berlin. 

The  purpose  of  the  film  was  to 
transfer  the  mystic  quality  of  the 
Olympics  to  the  Nazi  movement.  The 
appearance  of  Jesse  Owens,  black 
track  star  from  the  United  States,  in 
the  film  seems  to  contradict  the  Nazis, 

Charles  Hahn  speaks 
to  government  class 

Charles  Hahn,  rural  community 
development  consultant,  was  schedul- 
ed to  speak  to  a  government  class  last 
Friday,  according  to  Dr.  Daniel  J. 
Doyle,  professor  of  history  and 
government. 

Hahn  currently  is  involved  with 
Porter  Township  as  a  consultant.  Dr. 
Doyle  said  Hahn  identifies  the  small 
town's  needs  and  helps  obtain  stale 
and  federal  grants.  Hahn  has  done 
similar  work  in  New  England. 


according  to  Dr.  Doyle. 

"Olympiad  -  Part  U"  will  be 
the  last  film  (March  20). 

The  second  film  is  "Reqiem  for 
a  Heavyweight"  which  shows  the 
seamier  side  of  boxing. 

The         third         film         is 
"RollerbalP'starring    James    Caan. 
This  film  illustrates  the  futuristic  idea 
of  sports  being  substituted  for  war. 

"Loneliness  of  the  Long 
Distance  Runner"  is  the  title  of  the 
fourth  film.  This  film  is  about  a  work- 
ing class  man  in  trouble  with  the  law 
who  uses  running  as  an  "escape",  said 
Dr.  Doyle. 

Alpha  Omega  plans 
to  attend 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  will 
travel  to  Sunbury  this  Tuesday  night  to 
see  The  Watchmen  at  the  Otterbein 
United  Methodist  Chuch. 

Departure  from  the  Bardo  Gym 
will  be  at  6  p.m. 

James  V.  Phillips,  club  presi- 
dent, said  this  activity  will  take  the 
place  of  the  weekly  meeting. 


Volleyball 
challenge 
not  taken  yet 

A  volleyball  marathon  between 
Food  Service  studenis  and  Lycoming 
College  students  to  benefit  the  renal 
dialysis  unit  of  Divine  Providence 
Hospital  will  take  place  "if"  Lycoming 
students  accept  the  challenge,  accor- 
ding to  Rick  J.  Burick,  Food  Service 
secretary. 

No  formal  acceptance  has  been 
received  at  this  time,  he  said. 

Tenetatively,  the  marathon  is  to 
take  place  in  the  Bardo  Gym  and  begin 
this  Friday  evening.  Plans  are  to  have 
it  continue  into  Saturday,  Burick  said. 

Local  businesses  and  services 
will  sponsor  players.  There  will  be  no 
charge  to  spectators,  he  added. 

The  graphic  arts  club  has  joined 
Food  Service  to  make  one  team.  Other 
clubs  and  independent  players  from  the 
College  have  signed  up  to  participate. 
Burick  said. 

He  said  that  anyone  interested 
in  playing  may  contact  Donna  E. 
Houseknecht  in  Room  107. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Open  market  operations  are  purchases 
or  sales  of  U.  S.  government  securities 
designed  to  implement  monetary  policy. 

The  world's  largest  still-existing  dia- 
mond weighs  616  carats  but  is  of  inferior 
quality. 


Monday.  F«b.  IS,  1U0         SPOTLIGHT     3 


Matmen  win 
with  7  firsts 

The  College  grapplers  finished 
with  seven  champions  in  the  Eastern 
Pennsylvania  Community  College 
Athletic  Conference  at  Bucks  County 
Community  College.  The  conference 
champions  of  the  regular  season  easily 
won  the  tournament. 

Eric  S.  Haser,  150  pounds,  was 
honored  as  the  outstanding  wrestler  of 
the  tournament.  Haser  pinned  both  his 
opponents  enroute  to  his  title. 

David  C.  Dinger  also  had  two 
falls  to  win  the  126  pound  champion- 
ship. Other  champs  were  Terry  L. 
Schwab,  118,  Anthony  A.  Tessitore, 
167,  Terrance  C.  Rosini,  177,  Thomas 
S.  Husler,  who  remained  unbeaten, 
190,  and  Dennis  L.  Wise,  unlimited. 

Earlier  the  wildcats  increased 
their  regular  season  record  to  9-1  with 
two  convincing  victories. 

Friday,  Feb.  9.  the  Wildcat 
squad  hammered  Montgomery  County 
Community  College  51-5.  The  grap- 
plers also  downed  Berks  Campus  of 
Penn  State  46-7  in  their  home  finale. 

In  the  51-5  win  over  Mon- 
tgomery, Dinger,  Haser,  David  T. 
Olver  158,  and  Tessitore  won  by  falls. 
Bruce  A.  Rigard,  134,  added  a  deci- 
sion, and  Schwab,  Rosini,  Husler,  and 
Micheal  H.  Flinko,  unlimited,  were 
awarded  forfeits. 

The  Wildcau  buih  ■  KM)  lead' 
in  their  home  finale  against  Berks. 
Dinger,  Rigard,  and  Haser  all  scored 
first  period  pins.  Schawb  and  Mancval 
were  awarded  forfeits  to  give  the 
Wildcats  their  huge  lead. 

After  a  loss  at  158,  Tessitore 
decked  his  opponent  to  put  the  score  at 
36-4.  Another  loss  followed,  but  the 
match  was  already  out  of  reach. 

At  190,  Husler  jumped  out  to  a 
12-0  lead  after  the  first  period.  Husler 
reversed  his  opponent  at  the  beginning 
of  the  second  period  then  scored  a  fall. 

Wise  closed  out  the  match  with 
a  14-4  major  decision. 

The  Wildacts  will  wrestle  their 
final  match  at  Bucknell  on  Thursday. 


Fifteen  Act  101  counselors 
gather  for  campus  lunch 

Fifteen  Act  101  cotinselors  and 
advisors  were  served  a  luncheon  on  Fri- 
day, Feb.  8  in  Room  105,  according  to 
Rick  J.  Burick,  Food  Service  secretary. 

The  meal  was  planned  and 
prepared  by  Linda  S.  Godfrey.  Burick 
said. 

Assisting  Miss  Godfrey  in  the 
preparation  were  David  J.  Arnoldin 
and  Kimberly  Fox,  students,  and  Mrs. 
Ann  R.  Miglio,  advisor. 

Microeconomics  is  the  study  of  individu- 
al markets  within  the  economic  system . 


We  Buy  and  Sell 

MUSHROOM 

329  Hepburn  St. 
Williamsport.  Pa.       322-4451 
Open  at  11:00  am  daily 
Gifts -Jewelry -Euphoric  Devices 


The  Golden  Dragon 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes        Classes  Start  T 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^3KS 

•Sons"""'      fe      WfrTe  LESSON 

•  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Otagonludo  Clubs  g 

SeltDefense/Ju  Jitsu     Brhis  Coupon  Good  lot  One  Fiee  LessoiM 
S     at  Williamsport,  Lock  Haven,    g 


Classes 


368-3295 


or    Milton  YMCA's 


SPOTLIOHT        Monday.  F»b.  ia.  IHO 


Beauty  or  The  Beast 


Conlinued  from  Page  2 
drinking  three  or  more  cups  of 
caffeine-type  drinks  daily,  research  has 
shown  that  you  may  be  helping 
yourself  to  prematurely  graying  hair. 
—Alcohol:  Alcohol  is  an  empty 
calorie    food.       Alcohol    contributes 


The  obvious  way  to  avoid 
premature  aging  is  to  curtail  regular 
use  of  empty  calorie  beverages  such  as 
alcohol,  coffee,  cola  drinks...  and  to 
stop  smoking. 

Many  then  say  "shucks,  if  I'd 


nothing  toward  the  building  of  body  stop  using  all  my  vices,  I'd  probably 

tissue    and    it    also    drains    valuable  get  run  over  by  a  Mac  truck."    That 

nutrients  during  the  metabolic  process,  just  might  happen  but  would  you  be 

During    that    process,    valuable  foolish    enough    to    watch    it    come 

nutrients  that  do  influence  health  are  straight  at  you  the  way  you  do  the 

lost.  Since  some  of  those  nutrients  are  slow,  painful  death  of  lung  cancer  or 

members  of  the  B-  complex  group,  a  alcoholic  cirrhosis  of  the  liver?  Do  you 


long  time  habit  of  daily  consumption 
of  three  or  more  alcoholic  drinks  can 
advance  the  onset  of  prematurely  aging 
skin  and  graying  hair. 

—Nicotine:  Cigarette  smoking 
adversely  affects  the  lungs'  ability  to 
furnish  sufficient  oxygen  to  all  cells. 
Thus,  all  the  body  deteriorates  much 
faster.  Smoking  also  affects  the  body's 
ability  to  utilize  Vitamin  C.  Some  of 
that  Vitamin  C  shortage  maybe  made 
up  by  using  Vitamin  C  rich  foods. 
Some  excellent  sources  of  Vitamin  C 
are  citrus  fruits,  broccoli,  brussel 
sprouts,  and  cauliflower.  Daily  con- 
sumption of  Vitamin  C  can  assist  in 
would  healing  and  protect  against 
bruising.  Also  Vitamin  C  will  protect 
against  bleeding  gums  and  will  improve 
resistance  lo  tooth  decay  --  which  will 
eventually  affect  the  looks. 


Dionne  Warwick 
say.s:  "Get  your 
blood  into 
circulation." 

'^ 

Call  Red  Ooss  now 
for  a  blood  donor 
appointment. 


Keep  Red  Oosi 
mdy 


have  the  right  to  deprive  your  family  of 
the  medical  costs  to  treat  you,  let  alone 
the  costs  to  support  those  vices?  Some- 
day, the  government  and  health  in- 
surance companies  will  ask  who  shall 
have  the  right  to  live.  Will  your  record 
justify  you? 

Displaced 
homemakers 
session  opens 

Two  six-week  workshops  for 
displaced  homemakers  will  begin  on 
March  3,  according  to  Mrs.  Julie  A. 
Grogan.  coordinator.  New  Options  for 
Displaced  Homemakers. 

The  workshops  will  be  held 
Mondays  and  Wednesdays  from  10  to 
12  a.m. and  from  1  to  2  p.m.,  according 
to  Mrs.  Grogan. 

The  workshops  will  aid  the 
homemaker  in  assessing  present  situa- 
tion, clarifying  needs,  and  obtaining 
resources,  making  career  decisions, 
identifying  interests  and  abilities,  and 
becoming  ready  for  employment. 

The  second  six-week  workshop 
will  begin  in  April,  according  to  Mrs. 
Grogan. 

The  service  has  been  in  opera- 
tion for  a  year  and  a  half  and  75 
women  have  participated  in  some 
capacity  in  the  program. 

The  program   is   funded   by  a 
State  Vocational  Education  Grant 
and  is  free  to  all,  according  to  Mrs. 
Grogan. 


The    Utah-Arizona    border    is   Tower 
Bridge  in  Utah's  Bryce  Canyon  National 
■ Park. 

Dodge  the  winter  weather 

with  a 

tropical  Hawaiian  Festival, 

On  Monday,  Feb.  18  (loday), 

the  WACC  Quanlily  Food  Students 

present  Iheir 

Hawaiian  Festival. 

The  evening's  meal  includes: 

Hawaiian  Ham  Sleak 

with  Plum  Sauce 
Coconut  Sweet  Potatoes 
Gingered  Cucumber  Slices 
Brussel  Sprouts  a  Beuerre 

Luau  Fruit  Punch 

Island  Dream  Pie 

The  cost  Is  just  $2.25  with  dessert  a  lo  carte.    Serving 
starts  at  5:30  and  continues  'til  6:30. 

So  come  with  us  to  Hawaii! 


Feddersen  lists  details 
for  reorganization 


Details  of  the  new  ad- 
ministrative reorganization  plan  were 
given  by  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen, 
college  president,  in  an  attempt  to 
clarify  any  misconceptions. 

Dr.  Feddersen  explained  the  ad- 
ministrative services  post  would  not 
be  eliminated.      Rather,  the  position 
would  undergo  a  "shifting  of  respon- 
siblities." 

The  student  records  office,  now 
included  under  administrative  services 
would  be  transferred  into  Student  and 
Career  Development. 

Personnel  and  Employe  Rela- 
tions would  shift  from  administrative 
services  to  the  executive  assistant  to 
the  president  position,  and  the  facilities 
and  site  development  position  would 
shift  from  the  executive  assistant's 
duties  to  the  admmistrative  services 
under  the  reorganization  plan,  he  said. 

In  discussing  the  administrative 
restructuring  plan.  Dr.  Feddersen  said 
a  12  member  panel  on  "Institutional 
Vitality  and  Foresight"  reviewed  the 
plan's  first  draft,  which  was  based  on 
recommendations  from  the  deans. 

Members  of  the  panel  include 
four  faculty  instructors,  two  secondary 
vocational  program  instructors,  one 
counselor,  one  dean,  one  division 
director,  one  program  coordinator,  the 
director  of  secondary  instruction,  and 
Dr.  Feddersen. 

Outlining  the  planned  restruc- 
turing. Dr.  Feddersen  said  three  com- 
ponents comprise  the  administrative 
structure.  These  components  are  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  the  president's  of- 
fice, and  administrative  services,  plus 
educational  affairs. 

In  tiK  president's  office,  there 
would  be  a  capital  campaign  coor- 
dinator, whose  responsiblities  are  now 
being  assumed  by  the  president,  and  an 
executive  assistant. 

Positions  under  the  executive 
assistant  heading  would  be  internal 
liaison,  legal  matters,  personnel  and 
employe  relations,  resource  develop- 
ment, community  relations  and 
publications,  and  research  and  plann- 
ing. 

Administrative  services  would 
include  business  and  financial  affairs, 
computer  services,  physical  plant,  aux- 
iliary enterprises,  security,  and  facility 
and  site  development. 

Educational  affairs  would  con- 
sist of  the  six  revised  divisions  -  cut 
down  from  the  present  nine 
-cooperative  education,  community 
and  continuing  education,  student  and 
career  development,  and  learning 
resources. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  there  would 
be  a  chief  of  educational  affairs.  This 
office  would  include  the  secondary 
vocational  administration,  program 
development  and  evaluation,  and  the 


director  of  learning  resources. 

Three  deans  would  be  reporting 
to  the  chief  of  educational  affairs. 
There  would  be  a  Dean  for  Student  and 
Career  Development,  a  Dean  for  In- 
structional Programs,  and  a  Dean  for 
Continuing  Education. 

Changes  occuring  in  the  restruc- 
turing of  instructional  programs  are  in- 
cluded in  two  proposals,  which  Dr. 
Feddersen  said  would  "align  programs 
with  similarity"  and  create  divisions 
with  a  "reasonable  range  in  size." 

In  "proposal  one",  there  would 
be  a  head  of  educational  affairs,  a  head 
of  cooperative  education,  and  six  divi- 
sion directors. 

Also  in  "proposal  one", 
Developmental  Studies  and  Act  101 
would  be  under  a  General  Education 
Division.  Other  divisions  would  be 
Business  and  Health,  Engineering 
Design  and  Technologies,  (which  in- 
clude curricula  from  the  Communica- 
tions, Humanities,  and  Social  Sciences 
(CHS)  Division,  and  Electric/Elec- 
tronics division).  Building 
Technologies,  Transportation,  and 
Earth  Science. 

"Proposal  two"  arranges  the 
divisions  differently.  Instead  of  a 
separate  division  for  general  educa- 
tion, those  courses  would  be  included 
in  other  divisions.  Developmental 
Studies  ,  and  Cooperative  Education 
directors  would  serve  with  the  chief  of 
educational  affairs. 

The  Math,  Science  and  Allied 
Health  division  would  be  transferred  to 
a  Science  and  Health  Division.  CHS 
curricula  would  be  in  a  business  and  ? 
(undecided  as  of  yet)  division. 

Secondary  and  postsecondary 
programs  would  be  combined  in  both 
proposals.  Dr.  Feddersen  explained. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  a  more  com- 
plete copy  of  the  administrative 
reorganization  plan,  which  will  include 
suggestions  from  the  faculty  and  staff, 
would  be  released  later  this  week. 

Food  demonstration 
shows  special  cooking 

First-year  dietetic  technician 
students  gave  demonstrations  at  the 
Lycoming  Mall  last  Thursday,  accor- 
ding to  Rick  J.  Burick,  Food  Service 
secretary. 

The  demonstrations,  Burick 
said,  consisted  of  preparing  foods  for 
cardiac  patients  and  suggesting 
workable  diets. 

Demonstrations  were  given  at  2 
p.m.  and  at  7  p.m.  They  lasted  about 
an  hour  and  were  followed  by  question 
and  answer  sessions. 

It  takes  4,500  gallons  of  water  to 
grow  the  food  in  one  person's  typical 
daily  menu  of  2,570  calories. 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 

Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 


Trustees 
consider 
proposed 
programs 

Dr.  Edmond  A.  Walters  3rd, 
dean  for  degree  and  certificate  pro- 
grams, said  18  new  programs  are  under 
consideration  by  the  board  of  trustees. 

Of  those,  three  have  a  very  good 
chance  of  being  instituted  in  the  near 
future,  he  said. 

Those  with  an  excellent  chance 
are  Air  Conditioning  and  Refrigera- 
tion, Alternative  Energy  Technology, 
and  Respiratory  Therapist. 

Two  programs  having  a  good 
possibihty  of  being  started  are  Wood 
Products  Technology  and  Technology 
Studies,  Dr.  Watters  added. 

Several  additional  programs  are 
under  study  at  the  present  time,  the 
dean  said.  These  include  Maintenance 
Technology,  Banking,  and  Real  Estate. 

Also  under  consideration  are 
Biomedical  Technician.  Avionics 
Technician.  Digital  Electronics  Techni- 
cian, and  Office  Machine  Repair. 

Programs  on  hold  include 
Flower  Shop  Management  and  Sawmill 
Technician  while  Physical  Therapy  and 
Museum  Curator  Assistant  are 
"possibles". 

With  limited  job  opportunities 
are  Occupational  Therapist  and 
Human  Services.  Real  Estate.  In- 
surance, and  Supervisory  and  Mid- 
Management  Training  are  listed  as 
"okay",  he  said. 

Seven  programs  have  been  in 
operation  since  1977.  These  are  Dental 
Hygiene,  Dietetic  Technician, 
Marketing  and  Merchandising, 
Agribusiness.  Advertising  Art,  Clerical 
Studies,  and  the  Co-Op  Option,  the 
dean  pointed  out. 

Engineers  tour  area 
processing  company 

The  Society  of  Manufacturing 
Engineers  (SME)  met  last  Monday 
evening  in  the  Angus  Inn  near 
Hughsville.  After  the  banquet, 
students  toured  Sprout/Waldron  — 
Koppers  in  Muncy;  a  nation-wide  cor- 
poration that  makes  food  and  paper 
processing  equipment. 

According  to  Chalmer  C.  Van 
Horn,  SME  advisor,  new  club  officers 
will  be  elected  this  Thursday. 


Co-op  locates 
across  country 

By  Bob  Thomas 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Sllfl 

The  Cooperative  Education 
Program  at  the  College  continues  in  its 
endeavor  to  place  students  in  a  wide 
variety  of  jobs  in  a  wide  area,  accor- 
ding to  William  Bradshaw,  director. 

The  area  is  not  confined  to 
Williamsporl  or  Pennsylvania,  he  said. 

Co-op  students  have  been  plac- 
ed in  several  of  the  states  adjoining 
Pennsylvania,  including  New  York, 
Maryland,  New  Jersey,  Ohio,  and 
Delaware. 

He  pointed  to  "four  good  ex- 
amples" of  students  receiving  jobs  in 
an  even  larger  radius:  Leslie  N. 
Guillaume,  plumbing  and  heating; 
Richard  Kumrow  Jr.,  civil  technology; 
Dennis  N.  Daily,  service  and  operation 
of  heavy  equipment,  and  Edward  F. 
Updegraff,  plumbing  and  heating. 

Guillaume  received  a  job  at 
Drakes  Inc.,  in  North  Pole,  Alaska,  in 
the  spring  1977  semester. 

Kumrow  was  employed  by  the 
Northland  Maintenance  Co.,  of  An- 
chorage, Alaska,  last  summer. 

Daily  was  employed  by  William 
E.  Dailey  Inc.,  of  Shaflsburg,  Vt.,  last 
summer  and  Updegraff  was  employed 
by  Farmer  and  Irwin  Inc.,  of  Rivera 
Beach,  Fla.,  in  the  spring  1979 
semester. 

Variety  show 
attracts  300 

An  audience  of  over  300  turned 
out  at  the  17th  annual  International 
Student  Coordination  Association  of 
Lycoming  County  (ISCALC) 
smorgasbord,  according  to  Mrs.  Lea 
Frymire,  director  of  the  Theater  Com- 
pany. 

After  dinner  the  group  perform- 
ed a  variety  show  entitled  "Coming 
Home".     In  the  show,  exchange  stu- 
dent Rolf  H.  Rupprecht,  was  featured 

"The  audience  was  extremely 
receptive,"  Mrs.  Frymire  said.  The 
show  ran  very  smoothly  the  whole  way 
through,  she  added. 

The  Theater  Company  perform- 
ed at  the  Church  of  Annunciation's 
Parish  Hall,  Friday,  Feb.  8. 

According  to  Mrs.  Frymire,  the 
students  built  a  close  relationship  with 
the  exchange  students  through  their 
working  experiences. 

As  a  result  of  his  fine  perfor- 
mance, Rupprecht  will  participate  in 
the  groups  variety  show  scheduled  for 
Thursday,  March  27. 


IWonday,  Feb.  ia.  19(0        SPOTUQHT 


Students  'impressed' 
with  conference 


A  trail  hike  and  a  lecture  on 
assertive  training  by  Ms.  Barbara  A. 
Gilmour,  communications  director, 
were  highlights  of  the  leadership  con- 
ference at  Denton  Hill,  according  to 
some  of  the  students  who  took  part. 

Ms.  Gilmour  explained  what 
assertive  behavior  is,  why  it  is  valuable, 
how  it  affects  the  way  people  act,  and 
how  to  be  assertive. 

Students  practiced  role-playing 
after  the  lecture. 

Other  faculty  and  staff 
members  who  spent  the  weekend  of 
Feb.  8-9-10  at  Denton  Hill  were 
Lawrence  W.  Emery,  director  of 
counseling  and  career  development, 
Roger  E.  Davis,  associate  professor  of 
math  and  science,  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant, 
and  Dr.  Paul  L.  McQuay,  director. 
Engineering  and  Design  Technologies 
Division. 

Also  participating  in  the  ac- 
tivities and  lectures  were  Leon  Rudy, 
student  activities  director  at  Har- 
risburg  Area  Community  College,  and 
Mrs.  Felicia  Gaines,  also  from  HACC. 

Stephen  R.  Rizzo,  heavy  equip- 
ment student,  said  he  had  a  "very  good 
time."  He  said  he  was  impressed  by 
the  lecture  given  by  Ms.  Gilmour.  He 
also  said  he  was  interested  to  learn  that 
HACC  has  a  college  hour  during  which 
no  classes  are  held  so  clubs  and  other 
student  bodies  could  meet. 

Another  student  who  said  she 
appreciated  the  assertive  behavior  ses- 


MAY  GRADUATES!! 
The  Deadline  is  Near 
IVIarch  1 
Is  the  deadline  to  order 
caps  and  gowns  from  the 
College  Bookstore  so  that 
you  have  them  in  time  for 
Commencement. 

Do  It  Now! 

iiliiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiliiiuiiiiHiHiiuiiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiniuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


sion  was  Donna  E.  Houseknecht,  food 
and  hospitality.  Miss  Houseknecht 
said  she  also  liked  the  hike  which  was 
part  of  the  activities  and  added  that  she 
was  "fascinated"  by  the  map  reading 
course  before  the  hike. 

Bernard  Lewandowski,  also  a 
food  and  hospitality  student,  said  he 
mostly  enjoyed  meeting  a  lot  of  people 
he  did  not  know.  Lewandowski  also 
said  he  liked  the  skiing  more  than  any 
other  activity  during  the  weekend. 

Miss  Houseknecht  and  Lewan- 
dowski both  particularly  pointed  out  a 
lecture  on  burnout  prevention  given  by 
Emery  and  said  they  enjoyed  it. 

Crippling  strikes 
one  family  in  five 

Crippling  strikes  one  family  in 
five,  according  to  the  National  Society 
for  Crippled  Children  and  Adults.  The 
Society,  which  carries  forward  a  year- 
round  program  of  direct  services 
education,  and  research,  is  conduaing 
its  annual  Easter  Seal  Campaign 
March  1  to  April  6. 

Researchers  are  at  work  in 
numerous  institutions  to  Hnd  causes 
and  cures  of  crippling  and  means  of 
improving  the  educational,  emotional, 
psychological,  social,  and  vocational 
adjustment  of  the  crippled. 

When  you  give  to  Easter  Seals 
you  help  expand  research  that  will 
restore  the  physically  disabled  to  pro- 
ductive living. 


EVERYTHING  YOUR 

COUEGE  RING  SHOULD  BL 

AT  A  PRKE  EAR  LESS  THAN  GOLD. 


NEwmsnuuM 

liaWS68S5 

Date:  Feb.  25  to  March  7 
Time:  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 
Place:  College  BOOKSTORE 

JOSTEN^ 


6        SPOTLIGHT    Mondsy.  F»b.  18.  19»0 

SGA  elects 
new  officer 

A  new  vice  president  was  elected 
to  the  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion (SGA).  At  last  Tuesday's  SGA 
meeting,  three  candidates  were 
nominated,  voted  upon,  and  George  F. 
Stephens  Jr.  was  elected  to  office. 

Stephens  is  a  first  year  plumb- 
ing student    from  Tamaqua. 

Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  SGA 
president,  commented  on  the  leader- 
ship conference  at  Denton  Hill,  saying 
there  had  been  a  lot  accomplished  and 
it  was  a  "pretty  good  time." 

After  committee  reports  from 
the  Spring  Event  Committee  and  the 
Housing  Committee,  Miss  Dincher 
continued,  saying  Feb.  26  will  be  the 
days  for  nominations  on  party  tickets 
for  next  year's  SGA  officers.  This  will 
give  the  candidates  four  weeks  of  cam- 
paigning before  the  election. 

Two  major  committees  were  at 
the  meeting;  a  College  Hour  Commit- 
tee and  a  Structure  Committee.  These 
committees  will  be  working  on  the 
reeslablishment  of  College  Hour  and  a 
possible  restructuring  of  SGA. 

A  motion  was  made  and  carried 
that  a  plaque  be  constructed  for  the 
overall  winning  curriculum  of  Zany 
Week.  The  plaque  would  be  placed  in 
the  showcase  of  the  Bardo  Gym. 
Plates  engraved  with  the  name  of  the 
winning  team  will  be  added  each  year. 

Before  adjornment.  Miss  Din- 
cher noted  that  the  picture  for  the  year- 
book will  be  taken  at  the  next  SGA 
meeting. 

Pauling  returns 
to  instruct  shop 

L.  Elwood  Pauling  has  returned 
to  the  College  as  an  instructor  in  the 
machine  shop.  He  instructs  both  high 
school  and  college  students. 

When  Pauling  left  teaching  in 
1972,  he  bought  a  business  in  Muncy 
which  he  still  operates.  He  also  has 
worked  18  years  at  Sprout  Waldron 
Inc.,  which  makes  milling  machinery 
and  refines  wood  pulp. 

Pauling  is  a  graduate  of  Jersey 
Shore  High  School.  He  also  attended 
this  college  for  a  short  period  of  time. 
In  his  spare  time,  Pauling  likes  to  golf, 
although  he  admits  he  is  a  poor  golfer. 
He  also  enjoys  hunting  and  fishing,  he 
said. 

A  patent,  by  law,  is  only  good  for  17 
years. 

SERVICE     I 
MENUS 

Mondiy  (Tonight) 

Island  Punch 

Ham  Steak 

with  Plum  Sauce 

Coconut  Sweet  Potatoes 

Brussci  Sprout  Noisette 

Gingered  Cucumber  Slices 

Bread  •  Butter 

island  Dream  Pie 

Coffee  -  Tea  -  Iced  Tea 


Wednesday 

Duchess  Sup 
Chinese  Pepper  Steak 


■                         Fluffy  Rice  _ 

M                     Frozen  Fruit  Salad  A 

I                       Rolls  --  Butter  ■ 

^^                Pear  Crumble  Pie  ^M 

'^^^Coffee  -  Tea  -  Iced  Tea  ^T 


Energy  forum 
will  be  held 
this  Thursday 

An  energy  forum  entitled 
"Energy  and  the  Way  We  Live:  A  Na- 
tional Issues  Forum"  will  be  held  this 
Thursday  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Dr. 
Russell  C.  Mauch,  dean  for  communi- 
ty and  continuing  education. 

The  forum  is  one  of  three 
scheduled  for  February,  March  and 
April,  he  said. 

The  forum  is  a  nationwide  pro- 
gram designed  to  increase  energy 
awareness  at  a  time  when  energy  has 
become  a  matter  of  grave  importance 
to  the  country  and  the  world,  he  said. 

This  month's  forum  will  focus 
on  "The  Search  for  Solutions",  the 
dean  said. 

Panel  members  will  include 
representatives  from  big  business  (Pen- 
nsylvania Power  &  Light  Co.),  con- 
sumer groups  (County  Extension  Ser- 
vice), the  College  president's  speakers 
bureau,  organized  labor,  and  the 
private  citizenry.  Dr.  Mauch  said. 

.  All  presentations  will  be 
moderated  by  a  representative  from  the 
League  of  Women  Voters  and  a  town 
meeting  formal  will  be  used,  he  said. 

The  audience  will  have  an  op- 
portunity to  question  the  panelists  and 
to  engage  in  debate,  he  added. 

The  forums  are  free  and  open  to 
the  public.  Dr.  Mauch  said  he  was 
"encouraging"  all  concerned  to  at- 
tend. 

Next  SGA  meeting 
to  be  at  A  lien  wood 

The  next  Student  Government 
Association  (SGA)  meeting  will  be  held 
at  the  Earth  Science  Campus,  at  Allen- 
wood,  on  Tuesday,  Feb.  26. 

The  meeting  will  be  open  to  all 
students,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant. 

Students  who  wish  to  attend  are 
to  meet  in  front  of  Klump  Academic 
Center  at  3:30  p.m.  to  travel  to  the 
Earth  Science  Campus,  she  said. 

Alpha  Omega  plans 
Thursday  event 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  is 
sponsoring  a  coffeehouse  this  Thurs- 
day in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Lounge. 

Mark  Ortiz,  of  the  Pottsville 
area,  will  perform  from  7  to  9  p.m.,  ac- 
cording to  James  V.  Phillips,  club 
president. 

The  coffeehouse  is  open  to 
anyone,  Phillips  said.  He  said  that  free 
coffee  and  doughnuts  will  be  served. 

George  Armstrong  Custer  was  26 
when  he  became  a  general  during  the 
Civil  War. 


Don 't  call  it  junk. . 
it's  direct  response 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G.  Waschei 
Chiropractoi 


190S  Mill  Lane 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 


They  never  seem  to  stop. 

All  those  pieces  of  mail  seeking  new  members,  selling  insurance  policies 
or  soliciting  magazine  subscriptions...  They  just  keep  coming. 

While  commonly  referred  to  as  "junk  mail,"  in  the  business  it  is  termed 

"direct  response  advertising."  And  it  turns  out  to  be  a  major  industry  in 
itself.   Consider  these  facts: 

-  One  marketing  form  in  a  St.  which  is  then  made  available  to 
Louis  suburb  sells  up  to  3.5  million  member  firms  and  to  mail  order  sup- 
names  of  college  students  for  direct  pliers. 

advertising  companies.  "Practically     any     business 

-     Direct     marketing    ranks  organization  would  have  occasion  to 

behind  only  television  and  newspapers  use  a  mailing  list,"  Pfeiffer  said.  "For 

in  sales.  instance,  if  you  only  serve  one  part  of  a 

-  Over  $83  billion  a  year  is  city,  you  can  reach  that  specific  area." 
spent  on  this  type  of  advertising.  'Very  importani' 

So  how  do  all  those  names  get  Direct  mail  merchandising  has 
on  all  those  pieces  of  mail?  firmly  implanted  itself  in  the  nation's 
Schools  contacted  businesses  and  it's  going  to  keep  ex- 
It  all  starts  with  a  company  such  panding.  Stephen  Bernard,  circulation 
as  Marketing  Development  Corp.  in  promotion  director  of  Newsweek 
Hazelwood,  Mo.  Hal  Murray,  vice  magazine  in  New  York,  said  he  sends 
president  of  Marketing  Development,  out  "millions"  of  direct  mailings  for 
said  his  company  carries  a  list  of  over  new  subscriptions,  and  he  terms  the 
3.5  million  names  of  college  students  program  "extremely  successful." 
which  they  will  sell  to  firms  such  as  Bernard  said  student  mailings 
Newsweek  and  Sears  Roebuck  &  Co.  are  only  a  small  portion  of  his  program 


They  contact  over  1,000  schools 
across  the  country  and  request  a  stu- 
dent directory  or  computer  listing  and 


and,  he  added,  return  rates  are  kept 
confidential    within    the    industry. 
However,  one  source  said  that  the  nor- 


compile  those   names   with   as   many  mal  return   rate  ranges  from  one  to 

demographic  breakdowns  as  they  can.  three  percent. 

Gelling  off  the  list  Bernard  said   that  whenever  a 

For  those  who  want  their  names  company  sends  direct  mailings,  it  is 

removed  from  direct  advertising  lists,  bound    to    get    complaints    and    that 

there  is  a  way  to  accomplish  it.    As  a  Newsweek    will    take    those    people's 

matter  of  fact,  industry  spokesmen  say  names  off  its  lists. 
they  would  prefer  NOT  to  send  these  Amoco  Oil  Company  is  another 

mailings  if  the  people  do  not  want  business  which  uses  direct  mailings  to 


them. 

Direct  Mail/Marketing  Associa- 
tion Inc.,  in  New  York  City,  has  over 


students  extensively. 

Meets  Objectives 

Bill      Mathews,      Amoco's 


2,000  member  companies.    Not  all  are  manager  of  marketing  enterprises  in 

involved  in  direct  mail  advertising.  Chicago,  also  termed  the  company's 

Ed  Pfeiffer,  director  of  com-  direct  mailing  effort  as  very  successful, 
municalions,  said  the  company  pro-  "It  has  been  very  important  to  us  in 
vides  a  service  where  people  can  re-  the  development  of  the  motor  club,  a 
quest  that  their  names  be  deleted  from  new  club  we're  starting  (Amoco 
or  added  to  direct  mail  advertising  Traveler),  and  our  merchandising  pro- 
lists.  While  it  might  seem  that  most  gram,"  Mathews  said, 
people  would  want  their  names  The  direct  mailing  program  has 
deleted,  Pfeiffer  said  the  requests  run  met  all  of  the  company's  objectives, 
nearly  two  to  one  in  favor  of  being  ad-  which  vary  from  program  to  program, 
ded  to  the  lists.  Mathews  said.  "It's  a  constant  pro- 
Firmly  set  as  business  gram   of  testing   and   proving.      The 

Students  wanting  to  reduce  or  greatest  thing  aljout  it  is  that  it's  very 

expand  their  collection  of  mailing  can  measurable,"  he  added, 

write  the  association  at  6  East  43rd  St.,  One  point  that  Market  Develop- 


New  York,  N.Y.  10017.  Pfeiffer  ex- 
plained that  the  company  runs  ads  in 
many  publications  which  will  include  a 
checklist  of  special  areas  of  interest 


ment's  Murray  emphasized  was  that  he 
felt  students  were  receiving  good  offers 
from  the  direct  mailings.  He  said  his 
company  tried  to  make  sure  there  are 


such  as  travel,  sports,  home  decorating  no  rip-offs,  no  pornography,  and  that 

and  home  furnishing  -  about  which  a  they  hold  only  high  quality  accounts, 

person  can  receive  mail  solicitations.  And  don't  expect  the  mail  to 

Direct  Mail/Marketing  Associa-  stop.    As  Mathews's  said:    It's  a  huge 

tion  receives  several  thousand  requests  industry  now  and  "it's  going  to  get  big- 

a  month   for  deletions  or  additions,  ger." 
Pfeiffer  said.    These  names  are  either 

put  on  or  taken  off  a  master  tape,  ^enus,  the  earth's  nearest 'neighbor,  is 
permanently  covered  by  thick  clouds. 


^>mmi^       V:::-:-:-:-:-:-:/ 


NANCY'S  PLACE 


322  901011 


CALL  IN  ORDERS 


536  W.  Third  St. 
Williamsport,  Pa. 


leeseburgereTsubsTPizza,  B^Verafe 


Open  11  to  9  Daily.. 


/i:::::x:x:::v:A 


Closed  Sunday 


World  of  Work 

Listings  for  World  of  Work  are  provided  by  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director. 
College  Placement  Office.  Inquiries  about  these  listings  should  be  directed  to 
that  office. 


Career  Employment 

Welders  and  Computer  Programers-Want  Trainees.  Call  toll-free 
800-692-7800  from  9  a.m.  to  I  p.m.  daily  for  information. 

Business  Manager-  Must  have  accounting  knowledge.  Send  resume 
and  references  to  P.O.  Box  624,  Lock  Haven.  Pa. 

Motorcycle  Mechanic-  Position  open  immediately  with  central  Penn- 
sylvania's number  one  motorcycle  dealership.  Apply  Williamsport  Sports 
Motors,  Mill  Hall,  Pa.  or  phone  726-3343  or  726-4921. 

Draftpersons-  United  Refining  Co.,  P.O.  Box  780,  Warren,  Pa.  16365. 

Manager  Trainee-  The  Shed  House,  Lycoming  Mall.  Apply  to  store 
manager. 

Operating  Room  Technician-  Private  office  work  practice.  Send 
resume  with  references  to  Box  W-26,  Sun-Gazette. 

Auto  Mechanic-  immediate  opening  for  experienced  mechanic.  Must 
have  metric  tools  and  be  willing  to  train  on  imports.  Apply  in  person.  Valley 
Volkswagon,  Route  1 1  North,  Danville,  Pa. 

Mechanical  Designer  and  Machinists-  Gettig  Engineering  and 
Manufacturing  Co.  Inc.  Spring  Mills,  Pa.  Appointments  for  filing  applicar 
tions  and  interviews  arranged  by  calling  plant  office  from  8  a.m.  to  5  p.m.  at 
814-422-8892. 

Tool  designman-  SHS  personnel,  18  Pierce  St.,  Kinoptau,  P'a.  18704. 
Apply  with  resume  to  Linda  Stacker.    Call  717-288-931 1 . 

Computer  Programer-  R&R  Construction  Co.,  1315  South  Allen  St., 
State  College,  Pa.    Apply  with  resume  to  Jim  Janosky.    Call  814-237-2791. 

Mechanical  and  Engineering  Draftpersons-  Kawneer  Co.  Inc.,  1551 
Country  Club  Road,  Harrisonburg,  Va.  22801.  Apply  with  resume  to  David 
J.  Crosbie,  personnel  manager.    Call  703-433-2711. 

Architectural  and  Technical  Illustrators-  Kawneer  Co.,  Inc.,  1551 
Country  Club  road,  Harrisonburg,  Va.  22801 .  Apply  with  resume  to  David  J. 
Crosbie,  personnel  manager.    Call  703-433-2711. 

Receiving  and  Shipping  Clerk  -  Jersey  Shore  Steel,  Avis,  Pa.  Apply 
Bill  McGuire,  personnel  manager.    Call  215-378-6250. 

Dietetic  Technician-  Reading  Hospital,  Reading,  Pa.   19603.    Apply 
Mrs.  Dendy,  personnel  director.    Call  215-378-6250. 
Part  Time  Jobs 

Telephone  Solicitor-  Muncy,  Hughsville  or  Walsoniown  area.  Part- 
time  or  full-time.    Work  from  your  home.    Call  546-6831. 

Decorative  Crafts  Teacher—  No  experience  necessary.   Call  322-2928. 

Avon  Salesperson—  Set  your  own  hours,  meet  interesting  people.  Call 
323-7308. 

LPN-  Send  resume  to  Box  W-20,  Sun-Gazette. 

Waitress  or  Waiter-  Dining  room  work,  Monday  and  Tuesday  nights  5 
p.m.  to  10  p.m.    Call  323-5159. 

Busboy  or  Busgirl-  Host  or  Hostess,  cooking  personnel,  service  per- 
sonnel. Apply  in  person  to  Perkins  Pancake  House,  445  River  Avenue, 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701. 

Babysitter-  for  one  and  one-half  year  old  boy.  Near  Farragut  area. 
Two  or  three  days  a  week.    Call  435-0316. 

Babysitter  -  Williamsport  Village  Apartments.  Four  days  a  week  7:45 
a.m.  to  4:45  p.m.    Call  322-2966  after  5  p.m. 

Salesperson—  Must  have  car  and  phone.  Work  own  hours.  Pass  out 
samples  and  pick-up  orders.  $6  to  $8  per  hour  average  earnings.  For  interview 
write  P.O.  Box  603,  Williamsport,  Pa. 

Sales-  Arby's  Roast  Beef  Restaurant,  East  Third  Street.  Apply  in  per- 
son. 

On  Campus  Recruiting 

Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester.  N.Y.  will  recruit  tomorrow  and  Wednes- 
day from  9  a.m.  to  ?  They  will  look  for  computer  programmers,  electrical 
technicians,  engineering  draftpersons.  mechanical  .draftpersons,  and  tool 
designers. 

Berg  Electronics,  Reading,  will  recruit  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  Thursday. 
They  will  look  for  machinists. 

Osmos  Utility  Division,  Buffalo.  N.Y.  will  be  at  the  Earth  Science 
Campus  at  II  a.m.,  this  Thursday.  Being  sought  are  forestry,  nursery 
management,  and  civil  technology  personnel. 

Kennedy  Van  Saun,  Danville,  will  recruit  from  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  Feb. 
27.    They  will  look  for  mechanical  and  engineering  draftpersons. 

United  Technical,  Harrisburg,  will  recruit  from  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  on 
Feb.  28  They  will  look  for  electronics  technicians,  electrical  constructors,  tool 
design,  mechanical  engineers,  draftpersons  and  electrical  technicians. 

GTE  Sylvania,  Emporium,  will  recruit  on  March  5.  They  will  look  for 
mechanical  engineers,  draftpersons.  and  electrical  technicians. 

FHS  International  will  be  on  campus  March  6.  Details  will  be  given 
later. 

Gulf  Oil.  Texas,  will  be  on  campus  March  10.  They  will  look  for  an 
electrical  construction  worker. 

Buell  Division  of  Envirotech  will  be  on  campus  March  12.  They  will 
look  for  business  managers. 

EDS  Computer,  Camp  Hill,  will  be  on  campus  March  13.  They  will 
look  for  computer  personnel. 

Fluorescent  lights  use  45  percent  less  On  Aug.  6,  1945.  the  atomic  bomb  de- 
electricity  than  incandescent  bulbs  to  pro-  stroyed  more  than  91. (KX)  residents  of  Hiro- 
duce  the  same  amount  of  light.  shima. 


MoniHy.  F»b.  1».  19*0         SPOTLIQHT         7 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents... 

Tonight     7:30 
Klump  Academic  Center 

Horror 
Double  Bill! 


■^^^ 


"IT 

ij[Vie;:is 

AGAIN" 


J 


Plus! 

'Horror  of  Dracula 


L 


''The 
Greatest 
Dracula     of 
Them     All! 


Starring 

Cliristoplier 

Lee  and  Peter 

C  u  s  li  i  n 

Admission  $1.00 


r 


Coming. . . 
Next  Monday 

**A  Star  Is  Born" 

Free  Admission  I 


Mondlv.  Feb   ie.  19 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

COFFEE  HOUSE 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship,   7  to  9  p.m.,   Klump  Academic  Center 
Lounge. 

BAKE  SALE 
Gamma  Epsilon  Tau,  9  a.m.  to  noon,  Wednesday,  Klump  Academic 
Center  Lobby 

ENERGY  FORUM 
"The  Search  for  Solutions",  7:30  p.m.,  Thursday,  Klump  Academic 
Center  Auditorium. 

SPORTS 
Men's  basketball,  8  p.m.,  tomorrow,  home,  versus  Lycoming  College 
jayvees. 

Wrestling,  7  p.m.,  Thursday,  away,  versus  Bucknell  University  jayvees. 
Wrestling,  EPACCAC  Tournament,  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Saturday, 
at  Northampton  County  Community  College. 
WORKSHOPS 
Resume  writing,   7  p.m.,  Thursday,   Room  210,   Klump  Academic 
Center. 

MOVIE 
Horror  Double  Feature:  "It  Lives  Again"  and  "Horror  of  Dracula", 
7:30  tonight,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  admission. 
MAY  GRADUATES  NOTICE 
March  I  is  the  deadline  for  ordering  caps  and  gowns  at  the  bookstore. 


Three  foreign  students 
enrolled  this  semester 

Three  new  students  from 
foreign  countries  are  enrolled  at  the 
College  this  semester,  according  lo  Dr. 
Edmond  A.  Watters  3rd,  dean  for 
degree  and  certificate  programs. 

Angela  P.  Pedraza  is  a  business 
management  student  from  Columbia. 
Shahriar  Nehrir,  from  Iran,  is  enrolled 
in  agribusiness.  Patricia  M.  Salazar  is 
from  Nicaragua  and  at  the  College  tak- 
ing computer  science. 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 


HOURS 
7  a.m. 


Restaurant/Snack  Bar 


/special  THIS  WEEl\ 
I  WHOLE  I 

•  REGULAR  SUB  1 

SI.W 

LRcii.  Price  S2.  to  I 

Save  lil  J 

Clllo  's  Special  Service: 

..call  ahead  for  lake-ouf  orderx 


322-1321 

Across  from  Klump 
Open  for  Breakfast...?  a.m. 
Breakfast  served  'tit  10:^0  a.m. 


Burick  awarded 
scholarship 

The  Susquehanna  Valley 
Chapter  of  (he  Pennsylvania 
Reslauranl  Association  will  award  a 
$300  scholarship  to  Rick  J.  Burick. 
Food  Service  student,  according  lo 
Mrs.  Anne  R.  Miglio,  food  service  in- 
structor. 

The  scholarship  will  be 
presented  to  Burick  this  week  by  the 
association's  president.  Frank  R. 
Lewis,  Mrs.  Miglio  also  said. 

This  scholarship  is  presented 
each  semester  to  an  outstanding  Food 
Service  siudenl,  she  said. 

Pot  smoke 
deadher 
says  doctor 

"Marijuana  smoke  contains  50 
percent  more  cancer-causing  materials 
than  lobacoo  smoke,"  says  Dr. 
Donald  P.  Tashkin,  in  a  recent  issue  of 
the  Bulletin  of  the  American  Lung 
Association. 

"So  the  potential  for  causing 
lung  cancer  is  real." 

Dr.  Tashkin's  research  on 
healthy  young  adults  indicated  that 
chronic  marijuana  smoking  may  im- 
pair the  large  airways  to  an  extent  not 
observed  in  habitual  tobacco  smokers. 


aiiiiiiiMHiiiiiiiitiiii 


Baskets 


lllllllllllilllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^ 


t51  Wn*  -««n»K  Jt.  WiTtitttitfK'r 

" " ' ' ' """ " """"■ •iiiiiiMniimi „„„ „„„ , ,„„,„„„i 


Lost  Atlantis  discovered? 

A  recent  issue  of  Conservation  News  notes  that  underwater 
photographers  from  the  Soviet  Union  may  have  discovered  the  lost, 
mysterious  continent  of  Atlantis  described  by  Plato  more  than  2,000  years 
ago. 

Russian  oceanographers,  including  a  scientist  specializing  in  unexplain- 
ed maritime  phenomena,  have  been  interpreting  eight  underwater  photographs 
taken  from  a  diving  bell  near  the  island  of  Madeira,  southwest  of  Portugal. 


NOT  SO 
FAST 


Slowing  down  is  more  than 
just  a  safer  way  to  drive.  It's  also 
a  great  way  to  save  gas  and 
money.  You'll  get  about  20  more 
miles  from  every  tank  of  gas  If 
you  slow  down  from  70  to  55  mph 
on  the  highway.  And  that's  just 
one  of  the  easy  ways  you  can  save 
gasoline. 

ve  you  about 
Keeping  your 
iflated  saves 


n.  And  a  well- 
".  you  about  4C  a 

■  than 


Radial  tires  : 
3c  on  every  gallo 
tires  properly  i 


another  2C  a 
tuned  car  cai 
gallon  more. 

Saving  energy  is  e; 
you  think,  and  with  the  rising 
energy  costs  we're  facing  today, 
it's  never  been  more  important. 
For  a  free  booklet  with  more  easy 
energy-saving  tips,  write 
"Energy."  Box  62.  Oak  Ridge,  TN 
37830. 


ENBIOY. 
We  can't  crfford  to  waste  it. 

U  S   Oepariment  of  Energy 


For  the  real  beer  lover. 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 

Williamsport 

323-3237 


Student  claims  fee  illegal,  case  to  court 


X 

o 


hJ 


o 


Ph 


c/3 


By  Larrv  C.  Steele 

or  Ihe  SPOTLIGHT  slaft 

An  injunction  has  been  filed 
against  the  South  Williamsport  School 
District  to  stop  what  one  College  stu- 
dent has  termed  an  illegal  "tuition 
charge". 

Pamela  H.  Hill,  a  third  semester 
business  management  student,  has  fil- 
ed through  an  attorney,  Richard  A 
Gahr,  the  injunction  which  is  for 
"Pam  Hill  and  all  similarly  situated." 
The  suit  involves  all  students  from 
South  Williamsport  who  obtained  a 
sponsorship  certificate  from  the  school 
district. 

According  to  Miss  Hill,  in  order 
for  South  Williamsport  students  to  get 
a  sponsorship  certificate  they  must  pay 
a  "fee  or  tuition  charge"  of  $33.50  per 
semester.  This  is  for  full-time 
students.  The  fee  varies  for  part-time 
students. 

Miss  Hill  feels  the  school 
district  has  no  right  to  charge  the  fee, 
and  Gahr  has  filed  the  "class  action" 
suit  against  the  school  district. 

According  to  Gahr,  the  fee  is  il- 
legal due  to  the  Community  College 
Act  of  1963.    This  act  empowers  only 


the  local  sponsor  (and  not  an 
dividual  school  district  as  a  member  of 
a  local  sponsor)  to  charge  a  tuition  or 
fee  for  a  certificate  of  sponsorship,  he 
said. 

In  the  injunction,  Gahr  has  ask- 
ed the  court  to  stop  the  school  district 
from  levying  the  charge  to  the 
students,  and  also  to  reimburse  all 
moneys  collected  from  students  of  the 
College  who  have  paid  such  a  fee. 

The  oral  argument  and  a  brief 
on  issues  will  probably  be  held  in  the 


Students  can  either  call  326-5386  or 
323-9233,  or  they  can  write  to  414  W. 
Southern  Ave.,  South  Williamsport, 
Pa.  17701. 

Miss  Hill  says  this  is  necessary 
to  complete  the  action  that  is  to  be 
taken. 

Forest  Tech  students 
learn  fire  fighting 

On  Friday,  Feb.  8,  the  Bureau 
of    Forestry    presented    a    simulated 


Lycoming  Court  of  Common  Pleas  forest  fire  to  second  year  forestry 
sometime  in  April  or  May.  A  decision  students,  according  to  Glenn  R. 
would   then   be   rendered   in   May  or     Spoerke,  assistant  professor  of  forest 


June,  Gahr  said. 

John  R.  Bonner,  attorney  for 
the  school  district,  says  the  injunction 
will  be  contested.  Bonner  said  the 
school  district  feels  it  should  have  the 
right  "to  make  up  part  of  its  budgetary 
costs  for  students  in  the  13th  and  14th 
grades." 

Miss  Hill  asks  any  student  from 
South  Williamsport  who  has  paid  a  tui- 
tion charge  to  the  school  district  to  gel 
in  touch  with  either  herself  or  Victoria 
L.  Callahan,  a  fourth  semester 
marketing  and  management  student. 


William  Miller,  from  the  Bureau  of  Forestry,  gives  Rich  L.  Carey  and 
Jeff  E.  Sherwood,  forestry  technology  students,  directions  for  the  forest  fire 
presentation 


ICC  to  sponsor 
New  York  trip 

The  Interclub  Council  voted  to 
sponsor  a  trip  to  New  York  City  March 
29  at  their  meeting  last  Tuesday. 

The  trip  will  be  a  one  day  affair 
leaving  Bardo  Gym  at  6:30  a.m.  The 
bus  will  leave  New  York  at  9  p.m.  The 
price  for  the  trip  is  $16  for  students  and 
$18  for  the  public. 

The  Council  also  voted  to  spon- 
sor an  open  gym  on  the  weekends. 
Each  club  will  be  asked  to  be  responsi- 
ble for  one  weekend.  The  open  gym 
could  begin  as  early  as  this  weekend, 
the  Council  decided. 

The  skating  party  which  was 
slated  for  March  1 1  has  been  postpon- 
ed until  April  15.  The  Council  is  still 
seeking  a  band  to  play  at  Skateland  on 
that  date. 

The  Council  was  also  advised  by 
James  V.  Phillips,  president  of  Alpha 
Omega  Fellowship,  that  his  club  was 
sponsoring  a  concert  March  5  in  the 
Bardo  Gym.  Phillips  said  Benny 
Hester  would  bepiayingat  the  concert. 


Raffle  results 
announced 

Winners  of  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  raffle  that  ended  Friday,  Feb. 
15,  have  been  announced,  according  to 
Andy  W.  Wentz,  PBL  president. 

Winner  of  the  $100  first  prize  was 
Karl  Peterson. 

Second  place  winner,  Eugene  W. 
Menke,  received  $50.  M.  C.  Butler- 
worth,  holder  of  the  third  place  ticket, 
received  $25  as  did  Charles  Seigfried, 
holder  of  the  fourth  place  ticket. 

The  list  of  winners  is  posted  on  the 
door  of  the  PBL  office.  Room  333, 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

Wentz  also  reported  that  Project 
Specs  has  been  extended  for  February. 
The  purpose  of  Project  Specs  is  to  col- 
lect old  eyeglasses  so  that  the  lenses 
may  be  reground  and  redistributed  to 
the  needy  people  of  the  world,  he  said. 
Containers  for  the  collection  of 
these  eyeglasses  remain  at  the  Lycom- 
ing Mall  and  on  the  third  floor  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center. 


technology. 

The  forest  fire  was  projected 
through  a  movie  screen.  Students  and 
advisors,  through  radio  communica- 
tions, dealt  with  possibilities  to  control 
and  extinguish  the  blaze. 

The  presentation  included 
sound  effects  such  as  air  drops,  flames 
and  smoke. 

Spoerke  said  the  purpose  of  the 
presentation  was  for  the  students  to  be 
able  to  use  what  they've  learned. 

The  presentation  was  also  given 
to  the  high  school  forestry  technology 
class. 

Interference 
investigated 

By  Jan  Daniel 

of  (he  SPOTl.K.HT  sraff 

Responding  to  complaints  by 
area  residents  of  television  in- 
terference. Clifford  C.  Horton.  ad- 
visor of  the  College  radio  station 
VVWAS,  said  "we  have  taken  all  steps 
required  by  the  Federal  Communica- 
tions Commission  (FCC)  to  aUeviale 
the  problem.' 

Residents  of  the  surrounding 
three  to  four  blocks  near  the  College 
have  reported  interference  by  the  radio 
station  on  Channel  6  on  VHF.  The 
audio  of  the  television  program  is 
replaced  by  broadcasts  emanatmg 
from  the  radio  station,  said  Horton. 

Horton  said  older  television  sets 
are  more  susceptible  to  the  interference 
because  the  tuning  sections  are  not 
made  as  tight  as  modern  sets. 

This  means  a  broader  range  of 
frequencies  are  picked  up  by  the  older 
sets,  while  modern  sets  are  tuned  to 
pick  up  only  a  specific  frequency.  Hor- 
ton added. 

Channel  6.  which  is  Channel  16 
on  the  cable,  operates  at  a  frequency  of 
approximately  87.75  megahertz,  while 
the  College  radio  station  operates  at 
88.1  megahertz,  a  separation  of  only  a 
few  hundred  thousand  cycles  per  se- 
cond, said  Horton. 

The  tuning  section  of  the  older 
sets  will  pick  up  the  stronger  signal 
when  there  are  two  so  close  in  frequen- 
cy. In  this  case,  the  stronger  signal  is 
from  the  radio  station,  said  Horton. 

According  to  Horion.  several 
checks  have  been  made  to  ensure  the 
station  is  not  "drifting"  off  of  its 
assigned  frequency.  The  checks  have 
determined  this  is  not  the  cause  of  the 
interference,  he  said. 

Horion  said  the  station  has  been 
monitored,  and  will  continue  to  be,  to 
ensure  the  problem  is  not  due  to 
operating  at  a  frequency  other  than  the 
one  assigned  by  the  FCC.  The  station 
has  been  consistently  measured  al 
within  40  cycles  of  assigned  frequency, 
he  added.  }*hnsp  turn  u,  Pojce  H 


2         SPOTLIGHT     Monday,  Feb   25.  1980 


VIEWPOINT 


Rest!     Have     a     heart 

An  edilonat  rep'int  from  Jhe  Repoiiei  Se'vice  in  obseivance 
01  Heart  Month 

Have  any  idea  how  many  limes  your  heart 
beats  during  the  average  eight-hour  worl<  day'' 

A  study  shows  it's  about  63,894  times 

And  during  an  ordinary  eight-hour  period  of 
sleep,  it  Idles  along  with  an  average  of  about 
50.357  beats  -  a  load  reduction  ol  1 3.537  beats 

Awake  or  asleep,  your  heart  expends  a 
tremendous  amount  of  energy  Thai  is  why  it  is 
essential  to  get  enough  sleep  each  day  to  avoid 
building  up  latigue  and  pulling  extra  strain  on  this 
hardworking  muscle  machine 


YOU 


caring 
for 


YOU 


Get  BRATTY. 
fight  the  flu 

You  caring  for  you  is  a  regular  lealure  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT 
The  column  is  written  by  dietetic  technician  students  of  the 
College  on  an  allernaling  basis  Opinions  expressed  may  or 
may  not  reflect  Ihe  opinion  of  this  newspaper 

By  Viola  PIfeegor 

Winter  and  the  llu  season  is  upon  us  Have 
you  been  missing  classes  or  dances  due  to  Ihe 
dreaded  llu  bug' 

Recovering  from  Ihe  sling  of  the  llu  bug  or 
similar  upset  is  not  easy  nor  as  quick  as  we'd  like 
There  is  a  sale,  inexpensive  and  rather  quick  solu- 
tion 

Follow  Ihe  BRATTY  DIET,  a  Iherapudic  diet 
ol  nutritional  foods:  Bananas.  Rice,  Applesauce. 
Tea,  Toast,  and  Yogurt 

Good  sources 

Each  letter  in  B-R-A-T-T-Y  is  Ihe  beginning  let- 
ter ol  an  appropriate  food  lo  eat  Each  has  a 
specitic  function  to  nouiish  and  to  lelurn  one  lo 
normal  health 

B  IS  tor  banana,  which  is  high  in  potassium 
When  one  has  diarrhea,   the   intercellural   lluid 
which    IS    high    in    potassium    is    depleted    and 
muscles  lose  their  strength      We  teel  weak 
Potassium  is  responsible  lor  Ihe  maintenance  ol 
osmotic  pressure  and  fluid  balance      Thus,  by 

IPleaar  turn  to  Ptige  .3) 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

4 


Register  feelings 

It  seems  like  an  ordinary  part  of  American 
life  now-we  pray  for  the  hostages,  fly  our  flags  as 
a  show  of  support,  and  wear  armbands  that  de- 
mand their  release 

We,  as  a  nation,  have  presented  a  unified 
front  to  the  world  Yet.  as  individuals,  we  go  about 
our  daily  lives  as  11  nothing  were  wrong  We  are 
contused  as  lo  what  more  we  can  do. 

Bui  as  Amencans,  as  individuals,  we  can 
register  our  feelings  about  the  situation  with  our 
elected  leaders 

II  we  agree  with  the  stand  our  leaders  have 
taken,  let  them  have  written  proof  of  our  support 
If  we  don't  agree,  let  them  know  the  nature  of  our 
discontent 

Write  to  your  senators,  your  represen- 
tatives, your  President  about  the  hostages 

College  growing 

Progress  on  the  College  building  program 
IS  clearly  visible  now,  as  steel  girders  reach  lor  Ihe 
sky  on  campus 

The  new  Learning  Resources  Center  and 
the  Welding  facility  are  taking  shape  belore  our 
eyes  The  shape  of  the  future  of  this  college  is 
becoming  a  visible  reality 

We  appreciate  the  planning  and  implemen- 
ting of  this  proiect  even  more  as  it  becomes  closer 
to  being  a  real,  active  part  of  the  campus. 

Citizens  should  vote 
on  the  Olympic  issue 

Every  lime  you  pick  up  the  paper  or  turn  on 
the  radio,  you  hear  or  read  about  what  Ihe  people 
with  high  poilions  in  this  country  think  about  sen- 
ding a  team  lo  Moscow  lor  Ihe  Summer  Olympics. 

The  President  says  we  should  not  go  The 
Slate  Department  says  not  to  send  a  team  The 
U  S  Olympic  Committee  discusses  the  issue  con- 
stantly But  what  do  we,  Ihe  people  who  donate 
money  to  sponsor  our  athletes,  think'' 

It  seems  we  have  been  overlooked;  has 
anybody  important  asked  you  lately''  Of  course 
not,  we  have  no  say  in  the  matter 

With  the  Presidential  primary  election  com- 
ing in  May,  why  not  have  Ihe  question  ol  sending  a 
team  to  Moscow  on  Ihe  ballof  Alter  all,  "America 
doesn't  send  athletes  to  Ihe  Olympics,  Americans 
do"    or  don't 

Interviews   and    Photos 
by      Cindy   IVI.    Snook 


Of  the  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


Jeffrey  M    Krai,  electrical  construction,  ol 
Bayonne,  N  J     "Carter,  because  the  things  he's 
^  doing  now  add  up  lo  being  a  good  President." 


William  I,  Troxell,  business  management, 
of  Montgomery  "Undecided  at  this  time  " 

If  the  Presidential  elec- 
tions were  held  today, 
who  would  you  vote  for 
and  why? 


R  Scott  Markel,  business  r 
Wilhamsport:  "Undecided" 


lanagement,  ol 


Marchelle  M  Meyer,  general  studies,  of 
Williamsport  "Carter,  because  I  don't  like  Ken- 
nedy, and  Reagen  is  too  old  " 


Letters 

ENERGY: 
the  'hottest'  word 

A  Letter  to  the  Editor  - 

Energy  the  hottest  word  of  the  80's  Not 
only  will  the  demand  for  trained  personnel 
skyrocket,  but  each  and  every  business, 
residence  and  educational  institution  will  be  asked 
or  ordered  by  law  to  do  its  share  to  conserve 
energy  Many  homeowners  and  businesses  have 
already  started  their  crusade  on  conservation 
Reports  are  that  once  it  is  realized  just  how  easy  it 
is  to  conserve  and  that  the  monetary  rewards  are 
noticeable,  voluntary  conservation  will  be 
widespread 

Educational  institutions  are  beginning  lo 
lake  a  hard  look  at  spiraling  expenses  and  their 
limited  income  II  something  isn't  done  lo  curb  ex- 
penses, survival  ol  the  richest  will  be  Ihe  rule 
Reduction  ol  expenses  is  not  easy  for  it  usually 
means  cutting  back  of  supplies  or  personnel 
These  cutbacks  lake  Iheir  loll  on  programs  offered 
to  students,  which  in  turn  affect  income  One  sure 
fire  way  lo  reduce  expenses  without  harmlul  side 
effects  is  energy  conservation 

At  WACC.  energy  conservation  is  hard  at 
(Please  turn  lo  Page  3} 

Institution  lacking 
logical  thinking? 

A  Letter  to  the  Editor  - 

This  institution  of  higher  education  is  not 
where  one  can  learn  excellence  and  logical  think- 
ing by  example  The  perplexing  question  thai 
keeps  coming  to  mind  is.  what  does  the  ad- 
ministration wanf  The  administration  contuses 
and  confounds  us  with  their  examples  At  onenla- 
tion.  the  benefits  of  higher  education  at  WACC 
were  effusively  extolled  Yet  once  we  started 
classes  we  weren't  referred  to  as  college 
students,  bul  rather  insultingly  as  post-secondary 
students  What  do  they  want  these  administrators 
of  WACC  who  give  us  such  sterling  examples  ol 
executive  thinking  as 

First  day  of  Winter  Semester-(rem'ember 
the  ice  storm  Monday  that  had  been  accurately 
forecast  by  the  weather  station'')  Not  only  was 
there  no  salt  or  sand  on  the  steps  and  sidewalk  of 
our  campus,  but  daily,  we  students  and  lacully  are 
iPlease  turn  to  Page  31 

THE  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  ts  published 
weekly  rhroughout  the  academic  year, 
except  tor  college  vacations  by  )Our- 
nahsm  and  other  tnteresled  students 
OtticG     Room    7      Klump    Academic 


(71  7) 


326-3761 


1  221 


THE  STAFF:  Managing  Editor.  Jamce  L  Darnel  Features 
and  Editorial  Page  Editor,  John  F    Zelewicz    Sports  Editor. 

Mollie  S  Zelewicz  Chief  Photographer.  Timothy  A  Toth 
Advertising  Representative  and  Senior  Staff  Reporter.  Gail 
M  Thompson  Staff  Artists,  Gerald  J  Rexer  and  Michael  T 
Lekiles  Reporters,  Jacqueline  J  Cardene  Lana  M  Apker 
Robert  J  Allen  John  L  Rickert  Brian  M  Rippey  Leslie  M 
Rogers  Tiudy  M  Shively  Cmdy  M  Snook  Larry  G  Steele 
and  Robert  E    Thomas   Faculty  Advisor,  Anthony  N   Cillo 


Get  BRATTY 


(Continued  from  Paffe  21 

eating  ttie  banana,  one  can  pul  his  eleclrolytes 
back  into  balance  and  restore  ones  strength 
faster 

R  Is  lor  rice,  a  non-lrrllating  and  non-allergin 
food  and  a  good  source  of  Vilamm  B 

A  IS  for  applesauce  Applesauce  contains 
Vitamin  C.  and  most  innporlant.  il  contains  pectin 
Pectin  has  a  thickening  or  lelling  effect  m  the  in- 
testinal tract,  thus  reducing  the  diarrhea  Also,  it  is 
best  to  make  ones  own  applesauce,  using  the  ap- 
ple skins  because  the  skin  is  higher  in  pectin 

T  IS  tor  toast,  a  filler  which  is  non-irritating  and 
contains  several  B  vitamins  and  iron 

Y  IS  for  yogurt  which  is  soothing  to  the 
mucosa  lining  Yogurt  contains  bacteria  which 
will  help  the  mucosa  lining  in  the  inleslinal  tract  ab- 
sorb and  "destroy"  the  bad  bacteria  which  is 
causing  the  diarrhea  II  is  also  a  good  source  ol 
protein  and  calcium,  both  ol  which  contribute  to 
the  respone  and  strenglh  ol  all  body  muscles 
Bacteria  toxin  is  cause 
The  Bralty  Diet  is  a  nutritional  diet  to  regain 
loss  of  fluid,  replenish  hssue  prolein.  re-establish 
the  electrolyte  balance,  and.  most  of  all.  to  provide 
nutrition  when  one  has  diarrhea 

Often  diarrhea  is  caused  by  bacteria  toxin  or 
bacteria  infection  carried  in  something  you  have 
consumed,  or  by  someone  you  have  made  con- 
tact with  in  the  last  one  to  three  hours,  one  to  three 
days,  or  maybe  even  up  to  six  days  previous  to 
onset. 

Other  additional  causes  ol  diarrhea, 
chemicals,  drugs,  emotional  stability,  lood  sen- 
sitivity or  allergy,  alcoholism,  uremia,  Addison's 
disease,  cancer  ot  Ihe  small  colon  and  laxative 
abuse 

Warning;  don't  fast 
A  bit  of  a  warning  One  should  never  fast 
when  he  is  experiencing  diarrhea  This  hinders 
the  replenishing  ol  the  bodys  defenses  and  also 
may  lead  to  dehydration  Medications  do  not  af- 
fect the  basic  cause  of  diarrhea,  but  they  may 
have  potential  harmful  side  effects 

Medication  may  only  be  masking  Ihe  problem 
>by  stopping  peristalsis.  Ihe  natural  movement  in 
the  intestional  tract  Thus,  if  diarrhea  lasts  lor 
more  than  48  hours,  one  should  see  a  medical 
physician. 

Recouperation  from  the  llu  comes  belter 
through  nutrition  than  medication  Therefore,  diar- 
rhea should  be  treated  with  a  therapeudic  diet 
-preferably,  the  Bralty  Diet,  consisting  of 
bananas,  rice,  applesauce,  lea.  toast,  and  yogurt 
Ah  yes.  its  nature  s  way  of  keeping  that  un- 
wanted guest.  Mr  Flu  Bug.  in  check  so  thai  we 
can  enjoy  our  social  events,  but  even  more  impor- 
tant, so  that  we  will  not  miss  classes  or  work 

From  my  desk 

To  conform... 


VIEWPOINT 


Monday    Feb    25.  1980  SPOTLIGHT      3 


or  not? 


enbynolU 


From  My  Desk  ( 
The  SPOrUGHT 
sub/ecfs  o/  individual  interest  Opinions 
expressed  may  or  moy  not  retlecl  ttye  opinion 
of  The  SPOTLIGHT 

By  Leslie  Rogers 

01  The  SPOTLIGHT  SI»H 

There  is  a  lot  ol  pressure  these  days  to  con- 
form to  someone  else's  idea  of  right  and  wrong  II 
is  either  conform  to  "the  scene "  or  conlorm  to 
"the  establishment "  The  key  word  is  conform 
Change  what  you  are  into  what  someone  else  is 
Forget  your  likes,  dislikes,  old  Iriends-lorget 
everything  except  conlorming.  Should  you  not 
conlorm,  you  are  immediately  an  outcast  This  is 
not  right 

Real  success  is  being  able  to  spend  your 
lite  in  your  own  way  Many  people  seem  to  have 
forgotten  this  simple  idea  To  be  what  you  want 
and  to  accept  others  lor  what  they  are  is  the  true 
measure  ol  humanity  To  be  and  to  accept  Is  that 
too  much  to  ask' 


Institution 


(:..nl,„„e,l  fn,m  P„k.-  -' 

expected  to  risk  life  and  limb  to  cross  Third  Street 
because  they  don't,  won't  or  haven't  requested 
the  city  to  put  in  a  light,  reduced  speed  zone,  or 
even  a  zebra  cross-walk 

We've  all  noticed  that  Ihe  clocks  in  Klump 
don  I  keep  time  and  are  never  repaired,  yet  time 
must  be  valuable-most  deans  seem  to  be  spen- 
ding It  somewhere  other  than  on  campus 
Perhaps  the  reason  we  can't  find  a  dean  when  we 
need  one.  is  they  don'l  know  what  time  it  is 

It  is  a  well  known  tact  thai  there  is  an 
energy  crisis  WACC's  solution  to  ihal  is  to  over- 
heat half  the  rooms  in  Klump,  and  not  heat  the 
other  half  One  good  idea  deserves  another,  so 
they  graciously  put  sinks  in  some  bathroom  stalls, 
but  no  towel  dispensers 

The  faculty  expects  scholastic  excellence 
You  can  lell  that  by  how  hard  they  work  in  the 
classroom  and  how  hard  they  work  us  They  are 
also  interested  in  the  individual  student,  giving 
freely  ol  their  lime  for  both  school  and  personal 
problems  but  stopping  by  a  faculty  office  is  like  a 
bus  to  Ihe  beach  on  the  holiest  day  of  summer 
It's  wall-to-wall  advisors,  and  who  can  lalk  about 
anything  in  an  environment  like  thaf  The  lacully 
are  our  knighis  errant  and  the  administration  the 
knaves 

Lei's  go  on  to  Ihe  cardinal  sins-those 
slights  and  insults  that  show  little  regard  lor  Ihe 
student-the  bread  and  butter  of  WACC 

Notilication  ol  credits  accepted  by  WACC 
IS  not  given  to  students  until  Ihe  middle  ol  Ihe 
semester,  resulting  in  taking  courses  not  needed  - 
wast'ing  money  and  time  And.  in  my  case,  they 
linally  gave  me  credit  lor  a  course  Irom  another 
college,  and  Ihen  two  months  later,  reneged  on 
that  credili 

There  is  no  room  designated  as  a  study 
hall/work  area  The  caletena  is  woelully  inade- 
quate lor  study  because  ol  the  high  noise  and  ac- 
tivity level  and  the  lounge  that's  part  of  a  hallway 
will  never  do 

Parking  is  so  pjtilul  that  It  lakes  len  minutes 
to  gel  Irom  car  to  class  assuming  you  don't  lall 
and  get  lost  forever  in  a  pothole  The  student 
handbook  says  driving  our  cars  to  school  is  a 
privilege  Privilege''  II  rumors  heard  are  true  this 
problem  could  be  rectified  some,  as  WACC 
allegedly  owns  properly  that  isn't  being  used 

According  lo  Ms  K  Marcello  in  the 
January  21  1980  SPOTLIGHT  there  are  2.841 
students  enrolled  in  Ihe  Winler  Semesler  That 
means  there  are  live  deans  lor  under  3  000 
students  And  do  you  know  that  Ihe  President 
recently  got  his  poverly-level  income  raised  Irom 
$40  000  10  $44  000  a  year"?  What  are  these  men 
and  women  lor  you  the  sludenf  Well,  lor  one 
thing,  they've  demanded  we  attend  98  percent  ol 
our  classes  or  get  thrown  out,  and  they've 
eliminated  Winter  Break  vacation  this  year  Again 
the  question  What  does  the  administration  want, 
and  what  kind  ol  example  are  they  lor  scholastic 
excellence  and  pride  at  WACC 

Rissi  Becker, 

IS  student  Irom 

Monloursville 


•</  Intra  I'ofie  _' 

work,  thanks  to  many  dedicated  individuals  who 
are  concerned  about  the  health  ol  their  institution 
and  their  country  These  persons  are  not  waiting 
lor  orders  Irom  above,  or  until  it  gets  to  be  loo  late 
They  do  it  because  they  care  and  have  loresighl 
Administrators  and  teachers  are  working  toward 


one  common  goal    energy  conservation 

Under  the  new  construclion  program  at 
WACC,  many  not  so  visible  changes  are  under 
way  Some  ol  these  subtle  changes  will  provide 
for  future  energy  savings  A  lew  examples  are  the 
increased  ceiling  insulation,  more  ellicieni  multi- 
luel  boilers  and  double  glazed  windows  Also  not 
so  immediately  apparent  is  the  archileclural  use  of 
more  glass  in  strategic  locations  to  admit  as  much 
natural  sunlight  as  possible.  In  addition  to  night 
setback  thermostats,  energy  minded  ad- 
ministrators are  looking  into  the  leasibility  ol  using 
microprocessors  to  control  the  interior  environ- 
ment The  use  ol  such  sophisticated  electronics 
will  have  tremendous  financial  rewards  as  the  cost 
ol  energy  continues  to  rise  The  same  energy 
conscious  administrators  are  trying  lo  encourage 
lellow  employees  to  use  car  pools  by  looking  at 
special  car  pool  parking  areas  close  to  the 
building 

At  Ihe  teacher  level,  things  are  not  at  a 
stand-still  either  Several  instructors  in  the  Secon- 
dary Vocational  Program  have  incorporated 
energy  conservation  studies  into  their  programs 
Students  in  Ihe  Secondary  Horticulture  Program 
are  experiencing  energy  conservation  benelits 
first  hand  Modifications  lo  their  greenhouse  sre 
producing  daily  luel  savings  lo  Ihe  College  which 
they  ate  keeping  records  ol  The  same  class  is 
also  participating  in  a  national  energy  conserva- 
tion proiect  called  "The  Presidents  Challenge" 
sponsored  by  the  FFA 

Realizing  Ihe  importance  ol  educating 
students  in  these  areas,  several  instructors 
(representative  of  secondary  programs  and 
postsecondary  programs  and  one  administrator) 
several  instructors  will  represent  WACC  at  the 
Penna  Voc  Ed.  Conletence  this  summer.  They 
will  be  presenting  a  session  for  vocational  instruc- 
tors interested  in  energy  education  in  their  field 

All  across  WACC.  teachers  and  admin- 
sitrators  are  gearing  up  energy  education  and  con- 
servation The  Secondary  Vocational  Program  is 
looking  seriously  at  a  pilot  program  in  ihis  area 
that  might  possibly  be  incorporated  by  fall 
Discussions  are  also  taking  place  at  the 
postsecondary  level  lor  a  similar  future  program  in 
this  growing  lield 

Michael  Sedlak 

Assistant  Professor 

of  Horticulture 


Movie  review 


'The  Jerk'  is 
'wild  and  crazy' 

By  Jack  Rickerl 
ol  the  SPOTLIGHT  stall 

Steve  Martin's  first  venture  into  the  motion 
picture  industry  is  truly  "wild  and  crazy  "  His  in- 
sane antics  in  "The  Jerk"  are  lypical  ol  his 
Ireewheeling  style  ol  humor 

"The  Jerk"  portrays  the  lite  ol  Navin 
Johnson,  an  incredibly  stupid  man.  lollowing  him 
from  his  lite  as  "a  poor  black  child  ".  to  his  becom- 
ing an  overnight  millionaire,  with  plenty  ol  insanity 
packed  between 

Bernadette  Peters,  who  plays  Johnson's 
girllriend.  Mane,  does  a  lanlastic  job  ol  being  as 
Idiotic  as  Martin,  and  adds  a  great  deal  ol  hilarity  to 
the  movie 

II  you're  in  the  mood  lor  some  side-splitting 
laughter,  be  sure  to  see  "The  Jerk"  It'll  have  you 
rolling  in  the  aisle 


4  SPOTLIGHT  Mondiy    Feb    25    •9»0 


Students  at  Work 


A  new  class  project  is  started  by  Kathy  G 
chncr,  in  her  last  semester  in  Ad  Art. 


M.  Weaver,  a  first  year 
student  from  Milton,  checks 
measurements  for  his  Engin 
Drafting  assignment. 


Hard  at  work,  William  F.  Baker,  of  Mountain 
Grove,  comes  close  to  completing  his  project  for  second 
year  Tool  Design. 


Administrative  plan   included  in  revised  draft 


By  Cail  Thumpson 

of  Ihe  SPOTi.U;HT  Maff 

Input  and  suggestions  concern- 
ing ihc  administrative  reorganization 
pK'in  have  been  included  in  a  revised 
draft  of  the  plan,  according  to  Dr. 
William  H.  Feddcrsen,  college  presi- 
dent. 

Copies  of  Ihc  latest  drall  have 
been  distributed  to  all  faculty  and  staff 
tor  their  review  and  further  input.  Dr. 
Kcddcrsen  said. 

Highlighting  the  new  plan.  Dr. 
Feddersen  said  the  position  of  ex- 
ecutive assistant  to  the  president  would 
"strengthen  the  ability'*  of  the  office 
to  coordinate  all  internal  affairs. 

There  would  be  five  ad- 
ministrative positions  created,  replac- 
ing five  current  positions.  Posts  that 
would  be  created  are  a  vice-president 
of  educational  affairs,  a  secondary 
program  administrator,  a  program 
development  and  evaluation  specialist, 
a  dean  for  instructional  programs,  and 
Ihe  executive  assistant  tti  Ihe  president 
poMiion 


Those  positions  thai  would  be 
eliminated  are  dean  for  secondary  in- 
structional programs,  dean  for  degree 
and  certificate  programs,  assistant 
dean  for  secondary  instructional  pro- 
grams, assistant  dean  for  degree  and 
certificate  programs,  and  the  director 
of  secondary  instruction. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  all  educa- 
tional affairs  would  be  coordinated 
through  the  vice-president  for  educa- 
tional affairs.  Secondary  and  post 
secondary  instructional  programs 
would  be  combined  under  this  posi- 
tion. 

Serving  with  dean  for  instruc- 
tional programs  would  be  the  director 
of  developmental  studies  and  the  direc- 
tor of  cooperative  education. 

In  the  latest  draft  of  the 
reorganization  plan,  the  number  of 
divisions  is  reduced  from  nine  to  seven. 
Dr.  Feddersen  said. 

And,  instead  of  division  direc- 
tors, the  positions  would  be  changed  to 
assistant  deans  of  a  division. 

The  seven  divisions  are  building 


H\(<    ( 

The  on 

„,.m»  (  l„h  pr.Mnlv..,                                                                          Tonighl 

»  you've  all  been  waiting  for!                       7.30  n.in. 

Free  Admission! 

4  Star  Is  Born'' 

StR€ISnnD     KRIStO«€RSOn 

u.,  flStflR 
^^  IS  BORn 

Klump  Academic  Cen 
Next  week:  "Rolling  Th 

Admission:  $1.00 

ler 
under" 

chnologies,  business  and  computer 
science,  engineering  and  electrical, 
transportation  technology,  science  and 
health,  and  communications  and 
human  services. 

Communications  and  Human 
Services  would  consist  of  the  English 
department,  social  science  department, 
journalism,  broadcasting,  advertising 
art,  graphic  arts,  and  sign  painting. 

Science  and  Health  contains  the 
science  courses,  food  service,  dental 
hygiene,  practical  nursing,  radiological 
technology,  operating  room 
technology,  and  physical  education. 

Engineering  and  Electrical 
would  consist  of  machine  tool 
technology,  welding,  civil  engineering 
technology,  drafting,  architectural 
technology,  electronics,  and  electrical 
technology. 

Still  undecided  as  of  yet  is  the 
placement  of  the  electrical  construction 
program  and  the  math  department. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  the  math 
department  would  go  under  the 
business  and  computer  science  divi- 
sion, or  the  science  and  health  division. 

The  electrical  construction  pro- 
gram could  go  in  the  building 
technologies  division,  or  the  engineer- 
ing and  electrical  division,  he  added. 

The  remaining  divisions  will  re- 
main relatively  the  same.  Dr.  Fed- 
dcrsen said. 

In  curricula  with  eight  or  more 
insiruclors,  the  plan  calls  for  a  lead 
teacher   to   help  coordinate   the   pro- 

Club  to  elect  officers 

New  officers  will  be  elected  ai 
Ihc  next  Circle  K  meeiing.  3:30  p.m., 
Wednesday.  March  5.  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Cenier  cafeteria,  said  Kristy 
I  .  Wright,  club  president. 

At  the  last  Circle  K  meeting, 
held  Feb.  20,  plans  were  discussed  for  a 
service  project  in  March,  and  a  hot  dog 
sate  was  tentatively  set  lor  this 
Wednesday. 

The  Circle  K  club  will  preside 
o\er  the  local  Kiwanis  meeting  on 
April  10,  said  TKomas  C  .L,eilz.e|„qs,sis- . 
tant  advisor. '  ;  .     •  •  •  •_■  ■  ■•••■• 


Feddersen  explained. 

The  dental  hygiene,  practical 
nursing,  and  radiological  technology 
program  will  still  have  program  coor- 
dinators or  supervisors  in  the  new 
restructuring  plan. 

Although  the  plan  has  not  been 
finalized.  Dr.  Feddersen  said  there 
■'seems  to  be  support  basically"  of  the 
plan,  He  added  thai  with  input  from 
the  faculty  and  .staff,  he  and  the  Panel 
on  Institutional  Vitality  and  Foresight 
have  been  "making  progress"  on 
working  out  problems  and  questions 
that  arise. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  there  will  be 
another  draft  of  the  plan  with  further 
revision  by  February  28,  so  it  may  be 
put  before  the  Board  of  Trustees  at 
their  March  board  meeting. 

ENERGY. 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 


HOURS 
7  a.m. 


4  p.m 


Restaurant/Snack  Bar 
/special  this  weei% 

I  WHOLE  I 

•  TimKFV  SIII3  • 

!.10       I 


TURKEY  SUB 

$1.90 

Reg.  Price  - 

SAVE  20c 


CUlo's  Special  Service: 

...call  ahead  for  lake-out  orders 

and  t*e'U  have  ihe  order  ready  for  you  to 

nick  up!  

322-1321 

Across  from  Klump 
Open  for  Breakfast...?  a.m. 
Breakfast  served  'lit  l(l:}U  a.m. 


World  of  Work 

Listings  for  World  of  H'ork  are  provided  hy  Frank  ./.  Howes,  director, 
College  Placement  office.  Inquiries  ahoiii  ilice  //v/kh's  should  he  directed  to 
that  office.  r-  ^ 

Career  F.mploymenl 

Aviaiion  Mechanic--  Air  Atlanuc  Airline^.,  Bo\  ^\^ .  tcnirc  Hall  Pa 
16828. 

E\cciiiive  Secretary"  Brodarl  Inc.,  504  .Arch  Si..  Williamspiiri.  Pa. 
17701.    Apply  at  Personnel  iilf ice. 

Oiiality  Engineer  -  Mergcnihaler  Linotype,  P.O.  Box  18.  Welhboro, 
Pa.  16901.    Apply  lo  personnel  manager. 

Computer  Programmer-  Second  shil'i.  $14  to  $17  thousand  per  year. 
Apply  Box  X-6,  Sun-Cia/'clle. 

Forester-  Hammcrmill  Paper  Co.,  Clearfield,  Pa.  16830.  Person  must 
know  how  to  use  chainsaw.  Apply  Lloyd  Munsee,  woodyard  I'oreman  Call 
814-765-4361. 

Computer  Operator-  Wcis  Markets  Inc.,  I(X)0  South  Second  St.,  Sun- 
bury,  Pa.  17801.  Apply  to  David  Ritzman,  manager  of  data  processing  Call 
717-280-4571. 

Computer  Programmer-  Book  of  the  Month,  1225  South  Market  St., 
Mechanicsburg,  Pa.  17055.    Apply  to  Don  Wilkinson,  personnel  manager 
Call  717-697-0311. 

Dental  Hygienisi  -  Dr.  R.  L.  Buriak,  22  North  Second  St.,  Newport 
Pa.   17074.    Call  717-567-3600. 

Pressman  and  Stripper  -  W  &  M  Printing,  Box  II,  Mechanicsburg,  Pa 
17055.    Apply  to  Bill  Wiley.    Call  717-766-1727. 

Business  Manager-  Tayton  Freight  System  Inc.,  40  Main  St., 
Wellsboro,  Pa.  16901.    Apply  Mr.  Burton,  director  of  personnel. 

Electrical  Technician   or  Electrical  Constructor-  New   Process  Co., 
Warren,  Pa.  16366.    Apply  Richard  Zimmerman. 
Parl-lime  Jobs 

Submakers-  18  years  of  age  or  older.  Apply  the  rear  505  Washington 
Blvd.  from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 

Babysitter-  Mature  reliable  person  needed  three  days  a  week  for  a 
three-year-old  and  five-year-old.    Phone  398-0331.    Home  is  in  Jersey  Shore. 

Clerks-  No  details  available.    Call  322-9515  for  particulars. 

Sell  Avon-  Set  your  own  hours  and  meet  interesting  people.  Call 
323-7308. 

Teach  Decorative  Crafts-  No  experience  necessary.  Earn  $5  to  $6  per 
hour.    Call  322-2928. 

Short  Order  Cook-  Evenings  and  Saturdays.  Appiv  William  Tallv 
House.    No  phone  calls. 

Choir  Director  and  Organist-  Send  inquiries  to  St.  John's  Lutheran 
Church,  R.D.  1,  Montgomery. 

1.PN--  Leader  Nursing  Home.  Apply  Mrs.  Siroble,  101  Leader  Drive 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701.    Call  323-3758. 

On-Campus  Recruiling 

Kennedy  Von  Saun,  Danville,  will  be  on  campus  Wednesday.  They  will 
recruit  mechanical  and  engineering  draftsmen. 

United  Technical,  Reading,  will  be  on  campus  Thursday.  They  will 
recruit  electrical  technicians,  electrical  constructors,  tool  designmen,  and 
mechanical  and  engineering  draftsmen. 

Oaker  Casting,  Myerstown,  will  be  on  campus  Saturday.  They  will 
recruit  machinists  and  toolmakers. 

GTE  Sylvania,  Emporium,  will  be  on  campus  Wednesday,  March  5. 
They  will  recruit  mechanical  draftpersons  and  electrical  technicians. 

FHS  International,  Harrisburg,  will  be  on  campus  Thursday,  March  6. 

Gulf  States,  Houston.  Texas,  will  be  on  campus  Monday,  March  10. 
They  will  recruit  electrical  constructors. 

Buell  Division  of  Environtech,  Lebanon,  will  be  on  campus  Tuesday, 
March  II.    They  will  recruit  draftsmen. 

McCrory  Stores,  York,  will  be  on  campus  Wednesday,  March  12.  They 
will  recruit  manager  trainees. 

EDS,  Camp  Hill,  will  be  on  campus  Thursday,  March  13.  They  will 
recruit  computer  personnel. 

PP&L,  Allentown,  will  be  on  campus  Friday,  March  14.  They  will 
recruit  maintenance  personnel,  plumbers,  machinists,  and  welders. 

Tennessee  Gas  Pipe  Line  will  be  on  campus  Monday,  March  18.  They 
will  recruit  electrical  technicians  and  electrical  constructors. 


Bus  leaving  College 
for  Oregon  Hill  trip 

A  bus  will  leave  Bardo  Gym  at  5 
p.m.  Wednesday  for  a  ski  trip  to 
Oregon  Hill,  said  Mrs.  JoAnn  R, 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant. 

Ski  lift  tickets  are  $5.50,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said.  Rentals  and  lift  tickets 
are  $13.  she  added. 

Interested  students  should  sign 
up  at  the  Communications  Center, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said. 


Ice  Skating  tomorrow 

There  will  be  an  ice  skating  par- 
ty al  the  Penn  Street  Armory  from  7  to 
9  p.m.  tomorrow  night.  The  skating 
party  is  free,  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti, 
student  activities  assistant,  said. 

Any  student  needing  transpor- 
tation can  sign  up  at  the  Communica- 
tions Center,  Klump  Academic  Center, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

She  also  advised  there  will  be  no 
skate  rentals  available. 


Wildcats  end  season 
with  loss  to  Lycos 

The  Wildcat  men's  basketball 
team  closed  out  their  season  with  a  loss 
to  Lycoming  College's  junior  varsity 
squad,  80-72. 

A  small  crowd  in  Bardo  Gym 
saw  the  'Cats  go  to  the  locker  room  at 
the  half,  lied  32-32.  but  Lycoming 
prevailed  in  the  second  half. 

Len  R.  Maguire,  carpentry  and 
building,  led  the  Wildcat  charge  with 
22  points  and  1 1  assists.  Maguire  has 
averaged  nine  assists  per  game  in  his 
last  five  home  games. 

Randy  L.  Jones,  business 
managment,  popped  in  20  points  and 
grabbed  six  rebounds  to  aid  the  'Cats 
losing  cause. 

Rape  talk  to  be  held 

The  Student  Nurses  Organiza- 
tion of  WACC  (SNOW)  is  sponsoring 
a  free  talk  and  film  on  rape  awareness 
and  prevention  at  7:30  p.m.,  this 
Wednesday  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  Auditorium,  according  to  Mrs. 
Margaret  H.  McKeehen,  nursing  in- 
structor. 

The  film  entitled  "Rape  Preven- 
tative Inquiry"  will  be  shown  first. 
This  will  be  followed  by  a  talk  by  Pat 
Shadday,  Mae  Walker  and  Karen 
Salley  of  the  Williamsport  Area  Rape- 
Crisis  Network. 


Keep  Red  Cross 
ready. 


+ 


Energy  grant 
will  cut  costs 

A  $1,275. (XX)  Energy  Conserva- 
tion gram  would  provide  a  new  heating 
and  ventilating  system,  new  insulated 
windows,  and  other  energy  saving 
measures  for  Klump  Academic  Center 
il  funded.  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen, 
college  president,  wrote  in  his  column 
"President's  Corner"  in  Ihe  New 
W'eck  News. 

The  new  Stage  I  buildings  'vil! 
be  well-insulated,  and  will  employ  gas 
heating  systems  to  save  more  energy, 
he  said. 

All  other  buildings  would  even- 
tually be  converted  trom  their  present 
oil  heating  systems  to  gas  heating  also, 
providing  an  approximate  40  percent 
saving  in  heating  costs,  he  said. 

Changes  are  also  being  made  in 
the  greenhouses  al  Earth  Science 
Building  in  Allenwood  in  order  to  con- 
serve energy. 

New  developments  in  energy 
concepts  and  alternative  energy  sources 
are  to  be  included  in  plumbing  and 
heating,  building  construction,  and 
other  related  curricula.  Dr.  Feddersen 
said. 

An  "Energy  Information 
Center"  within  the  library  will  be 
established  by  David  P.  Siemsen,  direc- 
tor ol  learning  resources. 

Siemsen  and  his  staff  will  com- 
pile energy  information  to  provide 
studenis  and  faculty  energy  related 
ideas. 

Richard  Petty  was  the  first  slock  car 
driver  Co  attain  $1,000,000  lifetime  ear- 
nings on  August  I.  1971. 


EVERYTHING  YOUR 

COLLEGE  RING  SHOULD  BL 

AT  A  PRKE  EAR  LESS  THAN  GOLD. 


NEWLUSTRIUM 
IIOWS68A5 

Date:  Feb.  25  to  March  7 
Time:  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 
Place:  College  BOOKSTORE 

JOSTEN'S 


SPOTLIGHT     Monday,  Feb    25    1980 


Cheryl  D.  Payton,  a  heavy  equipmenl  sludenl 
from  Harrisburg,  shows  eagerness  as  she  works  on  her 
piece  of  machinery. 

Women  leave 
traditional  roles 
for  new  job 

Cheryl  D.  Payton.  a  heavy 
equipment  student  from  Harrisburg, 
likes  the  program  so  much,  she  says. 

Sequence  is  set 
for  variety  show 

The  sequence  has  been  set  for 
the  March  27  variety  show,  "Reaching 
Out",  according  to  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire. 
theater  company  director. 

The  acts  are  now  rehearsing  and 
ironing  out  difficulties,  Mrs.  Frymire 
said.  The  performers  should  have  their 
routines  near  perfection  two  weeks 
prior  to  the  show,  she  added. 

A  meeting  will  be  held  at  4 
p.m.,  Thursday,  in  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center,  for  all  members  who 
are  planning  to  perform  in  the  show, 
Mrs.  Frymire  said.  All  people,  in- 
cluding stage  hands,  must  attend.  Mrs. 
Frymire  stated. 

At  the  meeting,  Mrs.  Frymire 
will  go  over  the  sequence  and  try  to  set 
times  for  the  group  singing  in  the  open- 
ing and  the  closing  of  the  show. 

The  earliest  baseball  game  on  record 
under  the  Cartwright  rules  was  on  June 
19.  1846.  in  Hoboken.  N.J..  where  the 
"New  York  Nine"  defeated  the 
Knickerbockers  23  to  I  in  4  innings. 


"If  they  want  me  out  they'll  throw  me 
out." 

Payton  and  Dale  M.  Beers,  a  heavy 
equipment  student  from  Campbell. 
New  York,  are  the  only  two  women 
enrolled  in  the  College's  program. 
Both  women  are  second  semester 
students. 

According  to  Payton,  a  female 
was  once  enrolled,  but  dropped  out 
after  the  first  semester.  Both  women 
arc  confident  they  will  stick  with  the 
program  until  it  is  completed. 

When  asked  about  the  treat- 
ment they  get  from  the  men  in  the  pro- 
gram, both  women  agreed  the  guys  are 
very  helpful.  "They  treat  us  like  one 
of  the  guys,"  Beers  said. 

Payton  and  Beers  said  they've 
been  interested  in  working  with  heavy 
machinery  for  some  time.  Payton 
began  working  on  equipmenl  in 
Redrock,  through  Job  Corp.,  a  pro- 
gram run  by  the  Department  of  Labor. 
She  was  then  referred  to  the  College. 

Beers  said  she  became  interested 
in  heavy  machinery  when  she  was 
younger.  Her  father  taught  her  how  to 
run  a  backhoe  when  she  was  II.  and 
she  has  since  been  interested. 


Both  women  noted  the 
mechanics  part  of  the  program  is  the 
most  difficult,  but  it  is  getting  much 
easier  as  time  progresses. 

Payton  and  Beers  feel  they  will 
be  just  as  qualified  as  their  male 
counterparts  when  it's  time  to  get  a 
job.  Both  women  hope  to  pursue  a 
career  in  heavy  equipmenl  operations. 


n 


Dale  M.  Beers,  one  of  the  two  women  in  heavy 
equipment  and  operations,  says  she  will  definitely 
"stick"  with  the  program. 


Summer  co-op  open 
to  interested  students 

"It's  not  too  early  to  be  think- 
ing about  summer  co-op."  according 
to  William  C.  Bradshaw,  director  of 
poslsccondary  cooperative  education. 

Students  should  be  thinking 
about  getting  in  contact  with  their 
Faculty  Divisional  Coordinator. 

There  are  two  lists  available  to 
students  listing  possible  employers  for 
summer  co-op  ,  Bradshaw  said. 

One  list  names  employers  by 
community  and  geographic  area  while 
the  other  list  names  possible  employers 
by  trade. 

Students  to  cater 
committee    dinner 

Quantity  food  students  will  cater  a 
dinner  Tuesday,  Feb.  26  at  6  p.m.  for 
the  Agribusiness  Advisory  Committee, 
according  to  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio. 
quantity  foods  instructor. 

The  dinner  will  take  place  in  the 
Earth  Science  Building.  Julia  A.  Erb, 
a  student,  will  be  in  charge. 

The  food  and  hospitality  and 
dietetic  technician  advisory  committee 
will  meet  March  3  in  Room  105  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  for  a  dinner 
10  be  catered  by  quantity  foods 
students. 

Diane  M.  Bergman  will  be  in 
charge  for  that  event,  Mrs.  Miglio  said. 


Fellowship  sponsors 
Benny  Hester  Band 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  will 
sponsor  a  concert  at  8  p.m.,  Wednes- 
day, March  5.  The  Benny  Hester  Band 
will  perform  in  the  Bardo  Gym  as  part 
of  a  cooperative  effort  to  effective 
ministry  by  both  Alpha  Omega 
Fellowship  and  Celebration  Ministries 
of  Sunbury. 

Benny  Hester  is  a  contemporary 
Christian-rock  musician  who  works 
with  experienced  performers  like  Ron 
Tutt,  drummer  for  Elvis  Presley  for  the 
past  10  years  of  Elvis'  career.  Accor- 
ding to  a  Contemporary  Christian 
Music  Magazine  press  release,  'The 
dynamics  of  Benny  Hester's  ministry 
arc  vibrant,  lively,  and  best  of  all.  eter- 
nal.' 

According  to  James  V.  Phillips, 
Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  president, 
students  of  the  College  will  ge  given 
free  admission  with  ID.  Tickets  for  the 
public  are  available  at  BJ's  Gospel 
Supplies  and  the  Communication 
Center  of  the  College,  located  on  the 
first  floor  of  Klump  Academic  Center, 
he  said. 


Don  Hutson  of  Green  Bay  is  the 
highest  single  game  scorer  in  pro  foot- 
ball history.  In  one  1945  game  he 
scored  4  touchdowns  and  5  points  after 

for  a  total  of  29  points. 


We  Buy  and  Sell 

MUSHROOM 

329  Hepburn  St 
Williamsport,  Pa.       322-4451 
Open  at  UUO  a.m.  daily 
Gifts-Jewelry-Euphotlc  Devices 


Signs  returned 
to  Security 

Two  traffic  signs  have  been 
returned  to  the  College  Security  Office, 
according  to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak.  chief 
security  officer. 

One  stop  sign  was  returned  by 
"calling  in  and  telling  us  the  sign  was 
on  a  porch.  We  look  the  College  van 
over  and  picked  up  the  sign."  said 
Smeak. 

The  stop  sign  was  returned  to 
the  Police  Department  by  College 
security  officers.  Smeak  added. 

The  second  sign,  a  speed  limit 
sign,  was  discovered  in  the  service 
parking  lot,  Smeak  said. 

According  to  Smeak.  the  value 
of  the  two  signs  is  "in  the 
neighborhood  of  $50." 


rFOOD^^ 
SERVICE     I 
MENUS 


Monday  (lonighl) 

Italian  Tomaio  Soup 

wtlh  Cheese  Straws 

Chicken  Supreme  and  WalTle' 


ith      I 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes         Classes  Start  First  Week  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^j««^-e-„^p;-— ^ 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank         ^^^T7r7R^"r.^Prtu  -^ 
Promotions                  Q          ONE  FREE  LESSON  0 

•  Boys  &  Girls  ludo  Classes  ^                The  Golden  Dragon  ludo  Clubs  ^ 

•  Self-Detense/lu  iitsu      BlThis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonH 
^     at  Williamsport,  Lock  Haven,  g 

368-3295  S      "'  wntonYMCAs  5 


Brc 


Escarole  Salad  Piquant 

Key  Lime  Pie 
Coff«--Tea--lced  Tea 

Wednesday 

Spanish  Fish  Soup 

Chicken  and  Ham  Croquei' 

Swcei  Poiato  Domes 


Bun 


Peas 


Classes 


Ensalada  de  TomatO' 

Braided  Bread 

Spanish  Tone 

tard-l'illed  spongi 

-Tea-Iced  Tea 


Monday.  Feb.  25.  1980         SPOTLIGHT 


Return  wrestling  gear    '80-81  Calendar 

to  go  to  trustees 
for    approval 


workshop  for  heart  patients  at  the  Lycoming  Mall. 


chart    at    the    Dietician   Technology 


Demonstrations 
given  at  mall 

First  year  dietetic  technician 
students  performed  two  demonstra- 
tions at  the  Lycoming  Mail  on  Thurs- 
day, Feb.  14. 

Vivian  P.  Moon,  instructor,  was 
on  hand  to  Introduce  the  students  tak- 
ing part  to  observers. 

Each  student  demonstrated  one  or 
several  steps  in  the  preparation  of  a 
menu  designed  for  cardiac  patients. 

The  menu  consisted  of  curry 
yogurt  dip.  stuffed  fish  beachcomer, 
baked  tomatoes  with  peas,  onion  pop- 
py loaf,  blushing  pear  salad,  raspberry 
meringue  hearts  (noting  Valentine's 
Day),  and  Sanka. 

Upon  completion  of  the 
demonstrations,  students  invited  spec- 
tators to  sample  the  food. 

Dietetic  technician  students  who 
took  part  were  Tammy  S.  Scheaffer,  of 
Williamsport;  Diane  M.  Bergman,  of 
Kane;  Lori  A.  Lazarus,  of  Pottsgrove, 
and  Penny  S.  Montgomery,  of 
Wellsboro. 

Also  present  at  the  evening 
demonstration  was  Robert  C.  Kessler, 
public  relations  chairman  of  the  Heart 
Association.  Kessler  complimented  the 
students  on  a  "fine  job"  and  thanked 
them  for  their  part  in  the  associations's 
efforts  to  educate  the  public  on  how  to 
take  care  of  the  heart. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 
326-6966 


GET  sponsors 
volleyball  event 

Nine  teams  were  to  have  played 
in  a  volleyball  marathon  held  last 
weekend,  Feb.  22  and  23.  The  pro- 
ceeds from  this  marathon  are  being  us- 
ed to  help  the  Renal  Dialysis  Unit  at 
Divine  Providence  Hospital,  according 
lo  Miss  Donna  E.  Houseknecht, 
chairperson. 

The  marathon  was  sponsored 
by  the  Food  and  Hospitality  students 
in  cooperation  with  Gamma  Epsilon 
Tau. 

Included  in  the  marathon  will 
be  the  members  of  the  SPOTLIGHT. 

Members  of  the  SPOTLIGHT 
team  include:  John  L.  Rickert. 
Timothy  ,\.  Toth.  Cindy  M.  Snook, 
Jacqueline  J.  Cardcne,  Gail  M. 
Thompson,  Robert  J.  Allen,  and  Brian 
M.  Rippey,  SPOTLIGHT  athletic 
director. 

Lucasi  to  visit  class 

Steven  J.  Lucasi.  mayor  of 
Williamsport,  will  speak  to  a  govern- 
ment class  this  Friday,  according  to 
Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  government  in- 
structor. 

Lucasi  will  speak  about  issues 
facing  urban  government  today, 
primarily  Williamsport. 

Prior  to  his  election,  Lucasi  was 
a  member  of  city  council.  He  was  also 
head  of  the  Center  City  Association,  a 
downtown  business  group. 

The  day  of  Creation,  calculated  by 
Archbishop  James  Ussher  of  Armagh, 
Ireland  and  contemporories,  was  Sun- 
day. Oct.  23,  4004  B.  C 


All  varsity  wrestling  equipment 
should  be  returned  by  4  p.m.  tomor- 
row, Feb.  26,  in  the  equipment  room, 
according  to  Coach  Max.  G.  Wasson. 
Equipment  may  also  be  returned  to  the 
office  of  Thomas  E.  Vargo,  director  of 
physical  education. 

Failure  lo  turn  in  equipment 
will  result  in  the  student's  grades  being 
withheld.  Co.ich  Wasson  said. 

81  percent 
get  jobs  in 
career  choice 

Eighty-one  percent  of  1978 
graduates  who  responded  to  a  place- 
ment questionnaire  were  employed  in 
their  field  of  study,  according  to  a 
report  compiled  by  Frank  J.  Bowes, 
director  of  student  activities  and  place- 
ment. Response  was  75  percent,  the 
report  showed. 

Welding  graduates  earned  the 
highest  average  starting  salary,  Bowes 
said.  Their  average  starting  salary  was 
$14,700,  compared  to  an  overall 
average  of  $9,500. 

The  construction  carpentry  field 
had  the  most  graduates  employed.  Out 
of  a  63  percent  response,  43  were 
employed  in  that  field. 

Business  management  majors 
were  more  likely  lo  transfer  to  another 
college  alter  graduation,  according  to 
the  report.  Seven  students  who 
graduated  in'78  enrolled  at  another  col- 
lege. 

The  lowest  percentage  rate  of 
students  finding  jobs  in  their  trained 
field  was  compiled  by  the  broadcasting 
program.  Out  of  100  percent  response, 
only  30  percent  were  employed  in 
broadcasting. 

The  lowest  average  income 
group  consisted  of  floriculture 
graduates,  the  survey  revealed.  That 
group  earned  $7,200  a  year,  on  the 
average. 

Four  curricula  had  all  their 
graduates  respond,  the  study  showed: 
sign  painting,  tool  design,  industrial 
technology,  and  broadcasting.  Of  the 
four,  broadcasters  had  the  most 
graduates. 

Seven  programs  had  100  percent 
of  their  students  who  responded 
employed  in  their  trained  field.  In- 
dustrial technology,  graphic  arts 
technology,  technical  illustration,  sign 
painting,  tool  design,  loolmaking 
technology,  and  welding  were  the  pro- 
grams. 

Of  the  responding  graduates, 
three  percent  were  unemployed,  one 
percent  were  in  the  military,  and  one 
percent  did  not  seek  jobs,  Bowes 
found.  Nine  percent  were  employed 
out  of  their  trained  field. 

Circle  K  gives  party 

Circle  K  went  to  the 
Williamsport  Hospital  last  Sunday, 
Feb.  17,  to  give  a  Valentine's  Day  par- 
ty. The  parly  was  originally  scheduled 
for  the  children,  but  floors  other  than 
pediatrics  were  also  visited. 


The  proposed  calendar  for 
1980-1981,  listing  holidays,  staff  days 
and  class  days,  will  be  submitted  to  the 
board  of  trustees  at  the  March  board 
meeting,  according  to  a  memorandum 
from  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen,  presi- 
dent. 

The  proposed  calendar  is  shown  in 
two  parts:  one  section  for  degree  and 
certificate  programs  and  the  other  sec- 
lion  lor  secondary  programs. 
Degree,  Cerlificale  Programs  calendar 

As  It  stands  now,  the  degree  and 
certificate  programs  calendar  calls  for 
a  faculty  convocation  on  Aug.  18. 
New  student  orientation  as  well  as 
faculty  preparation  days  would  be  on 
Aug.  20,  21,  and  22. 

Classes  would  begin  on  Aug.  25. 

The  spring  semester  classes  would 
begin  on  Jan.  12. 

Holidays  included  in  the  proposed 
calendar  include  Labor  Day,  Sept.  1; 
Staff  Development  Day  {holiday  for 
students).  Oct.  17:  Thanksgiving,  Nov. 
27-28  and  Dec.  I;  Winter 
Break/President  :;  Day,  Feb.  16-17; 
Spring  Vacation/Snow  Make-Up, 
April  17-20. 

Commencement  next  year,  1981, 
would  be  on  May  9. 

For  the  secondary  programs,  faculty 
would  report  on  Sept.  2  and  classes 
would  begin  Sept.  3. 

Holidays  listed  in  the  secondary 
programs  section  include  Oct.  17,  Staff 
Development  Day  (holiday  for' 
students),  Oct.  17:  Thanksgiving,  Nov. 
27-28  and  Dec.  I:  Doe  Season,  Dec.  15: 
Christmas,  Dec.  22-31. 

(Christmas  is  not  listed  as  a  holi- 
day in  the  degree/certificate  programs 
calendar  since  the  semester  ends  before 
Christmas.) 

Holidays  in  the  spring  for  secon- 
dary programs  include  New  Year's, 
Jan.  1-2;  Winter  Break/Presidents' 
Day,  Feb.  16;  Spring  Vacation,  April 
17-20,  and  Memorial  Day,  May  25. 

Total  days  indicated 
Both  sections  of  the  calendar  show 
total  student  days  and  total  faculty 
days.  For  the  degree  and  certificate 
programs,  the  total  faculty  days 
amount  to  171  while  the  total  student 
days  amount  to  156.  In  the  secondary 
section,  total  faculty  days  amount  lo> 
185  while  total  student  days  amount  to 
182. 

TERM  PAPER  AND 
COMPOSITION  EDITING 
Do  you  need  lielp  in  putting  together  a 
paper?  Or  editing  the  llnsi  draft?  I  tiave  ex- 
perience in  writing  and  editing.  Will  l>elp  Willi 
grammar,  organization,  vocabulary,  punctua- 
tion, and  sentence  structure.  Call  Sara 
322-2412  before  2:30  p.m  or  323-8077  alter  3 
p.m.  /.itfv// 


\\:i 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

Oavid  G  Waschet 
Chifopiaclor 

1905  Mill  Line 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  32S-3393 

By  Appointment  Only 

.>w^'    -«^s^i^:.Tr:L::'i^v<^;^^;,^,: 


•u..^ 


nday.  F«b   2S.  I9S0 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

MOyiE 
"A  Star  Is  Born",  7:30  tonight,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium, 
free. 

MEETINGS 
Division  meeting.  Communications,  Humanities,  and  Social  Sciences, 
noon  today,  cafeteria. 

Student  Government  Association,  bus  leaving  from  front  of  Klump 
Academic  Center  3:30  p.m.  tomorrow  to  travel  to  Earth  Science  campus  for 
this  week's  meeting. 

HOUSE 
Coffee  House,  8  lo  1 1  p.m.,  Klump  Academic  Center  cafeteria. 

WOMEN 
Women's  Week  begins  today. 

WINTER 
Ice  skating    Party,   7   lo  9  p.m.    tomorrow,   Penn   Street    Armory. 
Skiing  Parly,  Wednesday,  there  will  be  a  bus  departing  from  the  Bardo 
Gym  at  5  p.m.  lo  Oregon  Hill. 


Rosters  ready     Interference 


Second  quote  received 
for  flasher  installation 

The  second  quote  lor  the  in- 
stallation of  the  Hashing  warning 
devices  has  been  received  by  the  city, 
according  to  Dean  David  M.  Heiney, 
dean  for  student  and  career  develop- 
ment. 

The  quote  was  from  Koscr  Elec- 
tric Company,  of  South  Williamsporl. 

The  formal  letter  from  the  city, 
containing  both  quotes,  will  now  be 
sent  to  the  College,  Dean  Heiney  said. 

When  the  letter  is  received.  Col- 
lege officials  can  then  approve  one  of 
the  quotes  and  award  the  contract,  he 
said. 


Sponsor  list,  cash 
to  be  turned  in 

Any  srudeni  who  participated  in 
the  skale-athon  is  to  hand  in  their 
spon.sor  list  and  money,  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Eremioiti,  student  activities  assis- 
tant, said. 

The  list  and  money  are  lo  be 
given  to  the  .lunior  Diabetes  Associa- 
tion or  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  as  soon  as  possi- 


ble 


she  adv 


awarded,  work  will  start  "as  s 
possible,"  Dean  Heiney  added. 


New  meeting  place 

The  Student  Government 
Association  will  meet  at  3:30  p.m. 
tomorrow  in  front  of  Klump  Academic 
Center  to  travel  to  the  Earth  .Science 
campus,  for  this  week's  meeting. 

According  lo  Mrs.  .loAnn  R. 
Iremiolli.  siudent  activities  assistant. 
Ihc  mceling  will  be  open  loall  students. 


for  IM  Softball 

Rosters  for  Intramural  soflball 
are  now  available  outside  the  office  of 
Thomas  G.  Gray,  director  of  in- 
tramural activities.  Gray's  office  is  on 
the  first  floor  of  the  Bardo  Gym 

One  of  the  Iwo  fields  used  in 
previous  years  will  not  be  available  this 
season.  Gray  noted,  due  to  the  building 
program. 

Intramural  soflball  will  be  run 
on  a  double  elimination  lournamenl 
formal.  Gray  said.  The  number  of 
divisions  will  be  determined  by  the 
number  of  teams  competing,  he  added. 
The  season  is  tentatively 
scheduled  lo  begin  in  early  April,  Gray 
noted.  Games  will  be  played  Monday 
through  Thursday  behind  Unit  6,  he 
added. 

Rules 
The  following  rules  have  been 
set  for  the  soflball  competition: 

All  games  will  be  seven  innings  or 
one  hour  and  15  minutes  long.  An  ex- 
ception is  the  10  run  rule  (where  a  team 
leading  by  10  runs  or  more  after  five 
innings  will  be  declared  the  winner.) 

Slo-pitch  rules  will  be  in  effect. 
An  arc  of  approximately  eight  feel  on 
pilches,  no  stealing  bases,  no  leads  off 
bases,  and  no  bunting. 

Spiked  shoes  are  prohibited. 
Gray  said.  Players  must  wear  sneakers 
only.  This  also  excludes  the  use  of  rub- 
ber cleats,  he  emphasized. 

Gray  warns  any  team  they  may 
be  dropped  from  the  tournament  if 
Ihey  have  arguments  with  opponents  or 
umpires,  or  exhibit  unsportsmanlike 
conduct. 


"You're probably  woruhriiif;  lioir  I ^ol  irlicrc  I  urn  loday. 


^^ 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 
Fifth  Avenue 
For  the  real  beer  lover  ^Slar' 


The  tallest  and  heaviest  boxer  to 
light  professionally  was  Gogea  Mitu 
(born  1914)  of  Rumania  in  1935.    He 

was  7  feel  4  inches  and  weighted  327 
lbs. 


iCormnued  fmm  Pofie  II 

According  to  Norton,  the  FCC 
allows  a  2000  cycle  deviation,  which 
the  station  is  well  within. 

Horton  said  there  are  several 
options  open  to  viewers  having  the  in- 
terference problem. 

One  of  these  alternatives  is  to 
buy  one  of  the  newer  receivers  which  is 
tuned  tighter,  eliminating  the  possibili- 
ty of  overlapping  signals. 

A  second  alternative,  according 
to  Horton.  would  be  a  realignment  of 
the  present  television  receiver.  A  ser- 
vice person  would  alter  Ihc  tuning 
mechanism  to  eliminate  overlapping 
signals. 

The  installation  of  an  internal 
"notch  filter"  would  be  an  additional 
suggestion,  said  Horton.  The  notch 
filter  would  be  tuned  lo  eliminate  only 
the  specific  frequency  at  which  the  sta- 
tion operates,  but  allows  other  signals 
in. 

The  notch  filter  costs  approx- 
imately $4  wholesale,  but  would  have 
to  be  installed  by  a  television  repair 
person.  Horton  said. 

The  installation  of  "rabbit 
ears",  which  would  pick  up  the  UHF 
station  carrying  Channel  16,  is  an  addi- 
tional possibility,  Horton  said. 

The  rabbit  ears  cost  approx- 
imately $10  and  require  no  installation 
fee,  he  added. 

The  last  alternative.  Horton 
said,  would  be  for  the  FCC  to  reassign 
the  station  to  another  frequency. 

This  alternative,  however,  is  not 
a  practical  one  because  all  of  the  FM 
frequency  allocations  in  the  area  are 
gone,  according  to  Horton. 

Additionally,  if  the  station  were 
moved  lo  another  frequency,  the 
broadcast  would  interfere  on  the  new 
frequency,  Horton  added. 

Frank  Rugani  drove  a  shuttlecock  79 
feet  8'/;  inches  in  ipsk  ai  San  in^e 
California,  on  Febriiii\  29   I9fi4 


Commencement. . . 

when  you  show  the  world  you've  reached  a  goal 


Order  Your  Cap  and  Gown  Now 
from  the  College  Bookstore 

WMM    ^^^  Deadline  is  This  Friday! 


Wllllamspon.  Pi 


gPBUILIJBQJtf 


SGA  plans 
Spring  Event 

Bv  Cind>  Snook 
<H  Iht  sporiu.Hi  Mafr 

Spring  Event  was  among  ilic 
lopics  discussed  at  lasi  week's  Sludeni 
Govcrnmenl  Association  (SGA) 
meeting,  held  at  the  Earth  Science 
Division  at  Allenwood. 

According  10  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotli.  student  activities  assistant. 
Spring  Event  will  be  held  al  the  College 
April  8,  9.  and  10. 

She  added  thai  lolk  singers  will 
provide  entertainment  Tuesday. 
Wednesday,  and  Thursday  over  ihe 
lunch  hour,  as  well  as  evening  enter- 
tainment time. 

Tom  Serabian  will  perform  over 
ihe  lunch  hour  Tuesday  m  front  of 
Klump  Academic  Center,  and  in 
Klump  cafeteria  for  an  evening  cof- 
feehouse. 

Wednesday's  lunch  hour  per- 
former will  be  Scott  Galbraiih,  in  front 
of  Klump.  Wednesday  evening. 
Wildfire  and  Harpo  will  perform  in 
Bardo  Gym.  Thursday,  Scolt 
Galbraiih  will  perform  over  the  lunch 
hour  at  Earth  Science,  while  the  ^CES 
Frisbcc  team  will  provide  eniertain- 
ment  during  lunch  lime  al  Klump. 

The  frisbee  team,  which  has 
played  in  national,  leknised  competi- 
tion, will  also  provide  a  Thursday 
e\ening  demonstration  clinic  at 
Klump,  Mrs.  Fremioiti  said. 

Mrs.  Fremiotli  added  thai  free 
food  will  be  available  at  the  lunch  time 
performances. 

The  next  SGA  meeting  will  be  3:30 
p.m.,  March  II.  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Financial  aid 
office  asks  for 
aid  applications 

Students  who  are  applying  for 
grants  for  nexl  year  should  gel  their  ap- 
plications returned  as  soon  as  possible, 
said  Ms.  .lennie  T.  Bills,  financial  aid 
director. 

Students  who  want  to  participate 
in  the  work-study  program  should  fill 
out  and  relurn  the  College's  Financial 
Aid  Application  quickly. 

The  forins  can  then  be  processed 
and  the  students  informed  of  Ihe 
results  before  the  end  of  the  semester. 
Students  must  also  fill  out  and  mail  Ihe 
ACT  form  to  be  eligible  tor  work- 
study. 

The  deadline  for  the  Basic  Educa- 
tional Grant  and  Slate  Grant  applica- 
tion is  May  I  for  renewals,  and  Aug.  I 
for  first-time  applicants. 

The  college  will  hopefully  be  pro- 
viding some  scholarships  next  year, 
said  Ms.  Bills.  In  order  to  be  eligible 
for  a  scholarship  and  additional 
grams,  students  must  complete  and 
mail  the  ACT  form  as  soon  as  possible. 

All  financial  aid  forms  are 
available  in  the  Financial  Aid  Office. 
Also,  Financial  Aid  will  help  fill  out 
anv  forms,  said  Ms.  Bills. 


The  Wildcat  wrestling  team  enjoyed  Iheir  finest  season  finishing  with  a 
12-1  record.  The  squad  downed  Ihe  Bucknell  jayvee  squad  22-14  (o  close  out 
the  season. 

Landlords       to  be  noted 

perceniagc  of  your  security  deposit? 

Does  your  landlord  keep  the 
property  in  a  modern  and  habitable 
condition? 

Does  your  landlord  respect 
your  right  of  privacy? 

Docs  your  landlord  have  a  ge- 
nuine concern  for  the  siudenls  or  is  he 
just  in  it  for  the  bucks? 

Has  your  landlord  ever  done 
anvlhing  >ou  considered  lo  be  above 
and  beyond  the  call  of  duty.  And  il  so 


Do  you  have  a  great  landlord? 
If  so  think  about  entering  him  rr  her  in 
the  Best  Landlord  Conlesi  which  will 
be  run  by  the  Housing  Committee. 

The  conlesi  will  be  three  lo  four 
weeks  long,  said  Mr.  Charles  .1.  Haas, 
director  of  housing. 

There  will  be  boxes  set  up  in- 
Klump  Academic  Center,  Cillo's  Col- 
lege Cornet,  and  Earth  Science  Divi- 
sion in  which  you  can  drop  in  your 
vote,  said  Haas. 

The  entries  will  be  judged  by 
members  of  Ihe  Housing  Committee, 
said  Haas. 

In  making  your  decision  think 
about  the  following  criteria: 

Does  your  landlord  act  quickly 
on  constructive  criticisms  concerning 
his  properly? 

Docs  your  I  andlord  relurn  a  fair 

Marathon 
nets  $321 
up  to  now 

By  Luna  Apker 
Of  riit  sfoi I K.H r  siarr 

Tlie  55  participants  who  look  pari 
in  a  volleyball  marathon  Feb.  22  and 
23  tentatively  earned  $321  according  to 
Donna  E.  Flouseknecht.  chairman  ol 
the  marathon. 

The  full  amount  has  not  been 
determined  yet  since  all  the  sponsor 
sheets  have  not  been  turned  in.  she 
said. 

Miss  Houseknechl  also  stated  thai 
all  sponsor  sheets  and  money  must  be 
turned  in  to  her  by  Friday. 

The  money  will  then  be  given  to 
the  Divine  Providence  Hospital  to  help 
support  Ihe  Renal  Dialysis  Unit. 

The  star  of  the  marathon,  accor- 
ding to  Rick  .1.  Burick,  food  sjrrvice 
secretary,  was  Roy  A.  Hicks,  a  graphic 
arls  studeni.  Hicks  was  sponsored  at 
$2.15  per  hour  and  played  for  24 
luiurs.  He  earned  a  total  of  $51.60, 
Burick  said. 


what? 

Why  would  you  recommend 
your  landlord  to  be  recognized  as  the 
Landlord  of  the  year?  Give  specific  ex- 
amples. 

The  awards  for  the  conlesi  will 
be  given  al  a  student  awards  banquet 
spossored  by  the  Sludeni  Government 
Association,  said  Haas. 

Varsity  tennis 
team  forming 

A  meeting  to  organize  a  Varsity 
tennis  icam  will  be  held  Wednesday  al 
4  p.m.  in  Ihe  first  floor  classroom  of 
the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Harry  C. 
Specht,  assistant  professor,  physical 
education. 

Specht  said  the  meeting  is  open 
lo  any  full-time  students  who  are  in- 
terested in  trying  out  for  the  team.  He 
added  that  there  will  be  both  men's  and 
women's  team's. 

Bloodmobile  coming 

rhe  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  will 
be  in  the  College's  Bardo  Gymnasium 
from  9:45  a.m.  lo  3:45  p.m.,  Wednes- 
day, March  II  and  from  9:15  a.m.  to 
3:15  p.m.,  Thursday,  March  12,  accor- 
ding 10  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremioiti,  stu- 
dent activities  assistant. 

Any  studeni  interested  in  giving 
blood  may  do  so  by  gelling  in  contact 
with  Mrs.  Fremiotli,  in  Room  136, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  at  Extension 
269. 

Also,  any  students  who  want  lo 
help  with  cleanup  or  setup  for  the  event 
should  eel  in  contact  with  her,  she  add- 


Quinn  Electric 
has    low   quote 
for  signal  units 

By  Jan  Daniel 

OtThrSPOlIK.HTSIatf 

Quotes  for  the  insiallation  of  the 
flashing  warning  devices  have  been 
received  by  the  College,  according  to 
Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean  lor  student 
and  career  developmenl. 

The  contract  has  tentatively  been 
awarded  lo  Quinn  Electric  Co..  of 
Williamsporl.  who  submitted  the  low 
quote  of  $3,425.00. 

The  quote  received  from  Koser 
Llectric.  of  South  Williamsporl.  was 
for  $4,200.00,  Dean  Heiney  added. 

According  to  Dean  Heiney,  the 
College  will  pay  for  the  devices 
themselves,  but  the  city  will  be  respon- 
sible for  maintenance'  and  eleclrical 
flosv  for  the  devices. 

Dean  Heiney  said  Quinn  Electric 
seems  "interested  and  anxious"  to 
start  the  project,  and  it  should  be  "a 
matter  of  days"  after  the  purchase 
order  is  received  by  the  contractor 
before  the  installation  is  begun. 

Actual  installation  should  lake 
"from  one  to  five  days"  for  comple- 
tion. Dean  Heiney  added. 

According  to  Dean  Heiney,  one  of 
the  devices  will  be  positioned  in  front 
of  the  Bardo  Gym,  near  Ihe  phone 
booths.  The  other  device  will  be  posi- 
lioned  al  the  far  end  of  the  faculty 
parking  lot  on  Hadley  Street,  which 
will  nam  motorists  of  students  cross- 
ing to  Unit  6. 

The  work  permit  has  already  been 
submitted,  and  the  purchase  requisi- 
tion has  been  submitted  lo  the  Pur- 
chasing Office,  Dean  Heiney  said. 

According  to  John  J.  Grado, 
economic  development  administrator 
for  Ihe  city  of  Williamsporl,  the  two 
contractors  were  chosen  because 
"They  have  done  work  for  the  city 
before  and  have  the  equipment  which 
meets  PennDot  specifications  for  traf- 
fic signals." 

Grado  said  this  is  how  requisitions 
for  traffic  signals  are  normally  handled 
by  the  city,  instead  of  the  more  formal 
method  of  asking  for  bids. 

Food  service 
students  plan 
Italian  dinner 

Food  service  siudenls  are  otfering 
a  hot  spaghetti  dinner  tomorrow  trom 
5  10  7  p.m.  in  the  cafeteria  of  Klump 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Rick  J. 
Burick,  food  service  secretary. 

David  J.  Arnoldin  is  the  chairman 
in  charge  of  the  meal,  Burick  added. 

The  menu  consists  ol  llalian  toss- 
ed salad,  zesiy  spaghetti  and  meatballs, 
garlic  bread,  spumoni  (llalian  ice 
cream),  and  minted  iced  lea  as  a 
beverage. 

The  cost  of  the  meal  will  be  $2.50 
per  person.  Tickets  are  available  in 
Room  107.  Klump  Academic  Center, 
or  from  any  food  service  student. 
Burick  said. 

Speaking  of  tickets.  Mrs.  Vis  tan 
P.  Moon  said  she  was  urging  siudenls 
and  staff  to  buv  tickets  earK . 


SPOTl  IGHT 


VIEWPOINT 


Television  review 


From  my  des/f 


Politics  and  sports 
blended     by    ABC 

By  Brian  Rippey 
01  The  SPOTLIGHT  SHII 

George  Orwell's  book  ■■1984"  came  true  on 
television,  at  least  during  the  two  weeks  ttie 
Winter  Olympics  were  telecast  by  ABS 

Millions  of  viewers  across  the  country  tuned 
Into  the  winter  spectacle  ttiat  was  supposed  to 
concentrate  on  athletic  performances  Instead  we 
were  spoon-fed  propaganda  every  now  and  llien. 
usually  by  Jim  lulcKay 

McKay  subtly  mentioned  the  Iranian  crisis 
and  Soviet  invasion  of  Afghanistan  as  Americans 
glued  their  eyes  to  their  television  sets  But  most 
of  the  political  propaganda  took  place  on  the  final 
day  of  the  telecast 

The  day  of  coverage  began  with  the  U  S. 
hockey  team  winning  the  gold  medal  against 
Finland  Alter  the  victory.  President  Carter  called 
to  congratulate  coach  Herb  Brooks  for  his  team's 
fine  achievement 

While  the  President  said  he  was  keeping  one 
eye  on  the  hockey  game  and  the  other  eye  on  Iran 
and  economics.  Brooks  said  he  hoped  this  would 
prove  we  have  a  better  way  of  living 

But  that  was  only  the  beginning  On  the  Sun- 
day night  show  we  were  entertained  by  flashbacks 
of  what  look  place  earlier 

Reviewing  the  opening  cermonies,  Jim 
McKay  saw  not  a  leam  of  athletes  parading  their 
flags  as  the  games  began,  but  the  countries 
governments  they  were  representing. 

As  we  saw  the  Canadians  entering.  McKay 
said  the  crowd  applauded  lor  their  approval  of 
Canada  freeing  six  Americans  from  Iran 

While  Ihe  Soviets  marched  in,  McKay  spoke 
of  Ihe  Soviet  invasion  of  Afghanistan  saying, 
"Despite  Ihe  situation  in  Afghanistan,  the  Soviets 
were  applauded,  probably  for  their  competitive 
spirit." 

Thank  heavens  for  announcers  like  Frank  Gif' 
ford  and  Al  Michaels  who  kept  things  In  perspec 
five  Also  for  the  American  people  who  were  nol 
only  supportive  01  their  hockey  leam.  but  express 
ed  their  appreciation  lor  three  time  gold  medalisl 
Irina  Rodnlna  of  the  Soviet  Union 

MInMorial:  Only  love  within  the  family 
makes  a  house  a  home     Without  it,  the 
house  remains  an  address. 
Editorial 

A  helping  hand 

Members  of  the  SPOTLIGHT  staff  would  like 
to  congratulate  everyone  involved  in  the  volleyball 
maralhon  held  on  Feb  22  and  23.  for  their  fine 
performance 

In  the  24  hour  marathon  70  to  75  people 
played  volleyball  to  help  raise  money  for  the  Renal 
Dialysis  Unit  at  Devlne  Providence  Hospital 

The  marathon  was  sponsored  by  Ihe  Food 
and  Hospitality  students  in  cooperation  with  Gam- 
ma Epsilon  Tau 

Marathons  such  as  this  one  and  blood  dona- 
tions help  show  that  the  students  of  the 
Willlamsport  Area  Community  College  are  willing 
to  help  people 

Once  again,  congratulations  to  those  involved 
in  this  fund  raising  activity 


Young  hockey  team 
excites  the  country 

By  Larry  Steele 

01  The  SPOTLIGHT  SUK 

I  would  like  to  |0in  the  crowd  and  congratulate 
the  gold  medal-winnmg  United  States  hockey 
team  Never  have  I  been  so  excited  about  the  out- 
come of  a  hockey  game 

I  was  thoroughly  impressed  with  Ihe  way  the 
young  players  handled  themselves  against  more 
experienced  players  The  leam  played  ag- 
gressively, and  certainly  surprised  more  than  just 
the  teams  it  played 

I  thought  the  final  game  against  Finland  would 
be  anti-climalic  after  the  stunning  victory  over 
Russia,  but  It  possibly  was  just  as  outstanding 
When  the  American  team  came  from  behind  to 
win  the  gold  medal.  I  felt  a  sense  of  pride  in  this 
leam  I  had  never  heard  of  before  the  Olympics 

Once  again,  hats  off  to  the  hockey  leam  and 
to  all  those  who  try  to  accomplish  a  goal 
Music  review 

Man  How  songs 
have  meaning 

By  Brian  Rippey 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  StafI 

Barry  Manilow  may  no  longer  be  writing  the 
songs,  but  he  still  makes  Ihe  whole  world  sing  with 
tils  "One  Voice"  album. 

The  LP  begins  with  the  only  song  Manilow 
wrote.  "One  Voice  "  He  blends  his  voice  as  if  up 
to  40  different  parts  are  sung  at  once  -  all  by 
Manilow. 

Also  included  on  the  LP  are  his  big  hits 
"Ships"  and  "When  I  Wanted  You"  Both  songs 
bring  out  Manilow's  inspirational  voice  quality  that 
has  made  him  so  popular 

But  the  thing  that  makes  the  album  so  easy  to 
listen  to  is  the  overall  quality  ol  all  the  songs 
Song  after  song  has  new  and  different  meanings 
that  the  listener  can  easily  relate  to. 

The  most  touching  song  is  "Where  Are  They 
Now".  In  this  song.  Manilow  has  nothing  to  do  but 
think  of  friends  that  were  lost  "somewhere 
behind"  The  song  portrays  how  life  comes  bet- 
ween all  of  us 

After  hearing  rock  lor  hours  on  end.  Manilow 
brings  a  well  needed  change  of  pace  to  the  mind 
Listen  to  this  album  and  you'll  see.  this  one's  lor 
you 

THE  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
weekly  throughoul  the  academic  year, 
except  tof  college  vacations  by  jour- 
nalism and  other  mteresled  students 
Office  Room  7  Klump  Academic 
Center  Telephone        (717) 

326-3761    Extension  221 


THE  STAFF;  Managing  Editor.  Jamce  L  Daniel  Fea 
and  Editorial  Page  Editor,  John  F  Zeiewicz  Sports  Editor 
Mollie  S  Zeiewicz  Chief  Photographer.  Timothy  A  Toth 
Advertising  Representative  and  Senior  Staff  Reporter.  Gai 
M  Thompson  Staff  Artists.  Gerald  J  Rexer  and  Michael  T 
LeKites  Reporters.  Jacqueline  J  Cardene  Lana  M  Apker 
Robert  J  Allen.  John  L  Rickert  Brian  M  Rippey  Leslie  M 
Rogers.  Trudy  M  Shively  Cindv  M  Snook  Larry  G  Steele 
and  Robert  E  Thomas  Faculty  Advisor.  Anthony  N  Cillo 
Production  team  this  issue; 

Jan  L.  Daniel,  supervisor 

John  F.  Zetewlcz.  compositor 

Jacqueline  J,  Cardene.  copy  control 

Lana  Apker.  Jack  L,  Rickert,  and  Trudy  M.  Shively 


''Sports  in  Film" 
series      continues 

The  film  "RoIIerball".  starring 
James  Caan,  will  be  shown  at  2  p.m., 
Thursday.  March  6.  in  Klump 
Auditorium.  This  will  be  the  Ihird  film 
in  the  "Sports  in  Film"  series  spon- 
sored by  the  Division  of  Communica- 
tions. Humanities,  and  Social  Sciences. 

"RoIIerball"  illustrates  the 
futuristic  idea  of  sports  being 
substituted  for  war. 

Fountains    installed 

Installation  of  water  fountains  for 
the  handicapped  has  been  completed  in 
Klump  Academic  Center,  according  to 
Raymond  C,.  Lowe,  physical  plant 
director. 

The  new  fountains  adjoin  the  ex- 
sisting  ones,  but  are  a  different  height 
and  extend  farther  from  the  wall,  ex- 
plained Lowe.  This  enables  a  student 
to  manuever  a  wheelchair  underneath. 
he  added. 

Dental  hygienists 
meet  to  plan  projects 

The  student  American  Dental 
Hygienists  Association  of  the  College 
(SADHA)  held  a  meeting  on  Tuesday, 
Feb.  26.  according  to  Mrs.  Davie  J. 
Nestarick,  dental  hygiene  instructor. 

The  students  are  planning  a  table 
clinic  for  the  State  Dental  Hygiene 
Meeting  to  be  held  in  Pittsburgh.  May 
10  through  13.  First-year  students  will 
participate  in  Open  House  on  March 
23  with  demonstrations  and  tours  of 
the  dental  clinic. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

Da»id  G.  Wascher 
Chiropractor 


1905  Mill  Lane 

Willlamsport,  Pa. 

Phone (717) 326-3393 

By  Appoirttmert  Only 


We  Buy  and  Sell 

MUSHROOM 

329  Hepburn  St 
Willlamsport.  Pa        322  4451 
Open  at  11  00  a  m  daily 

Gifts  Jewelry  Euphoric  Devices 


World  of  Work 

Listings  for  World  of  Work  are  provided  by  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director. 
College  Placement  office.  Inquiries  about  these  listings  should  be  directed  to 
that  office.  e3„„  Emplovmenl 

Secretarial  (Legal)  -  William  Askey.  35  West  Third  St..  Williamsporl, 
Pa.  17701. 

T.V.  Repairman  ~  Michaels  &  Sons,  Muncy.  Pa.,  Apply  Jim  Michaels, 
owner. 

Electrical  Supervisors  —  Thorough  knowledge  of  NEC  and  OSHA  re- 
quirements needed.    Apply  Box  X-31,  Sun  Gazette.  Wiliiamsporl,  Pa.  17701. 

Sales  Personnel  --  New  and  used  automobiles  in  Ford  and  Mercury  line. 
Apply  at  Murry  Motor  Co.,  Muncy.  Pa.  or  call  546-2222  or  323-4901,  ask  for 
Ray  IJrown. 

Branch  Manager  (Banking)  --  Applicant  must  be  presently  working  in  a 
commercial  bank  with  at  least  two  years  experience  as  a  branch  manager.  Ap- 
ply with  resume  to  Charles  Snyder,  P.  O.  Box  1165.  State  College,  Pa.,  16801. 

Manager  Trainee  ~  General  Nutrition  Cenler>  Lycoming  Mall,  Muncy. 
Pa. 

Aviation  Maintenance  -  Trainees  needed.  Call  loll-free  800-692-7800,  9 
a.m.  to  1  p.m.  daily. 

Food  Service  -  Trainee  wanted.  Call  toll-free  800-692-7800,  9  a.m.  to  1 
p.m.  daily. 

Gradall  Operator  -  Work  for  highway  contractor.  Reply  to  Hepco  Con- 
struction, P.  O.  Box  275,  Selingsgrove,  Pa.  17870  or  call  374-0381. 

Truck  Drivers  -  Drive  semi-trailer  and  straight  trucks.  Apply  in  person 
with  personal  photo  to  Hoffman  Seed  and  Grain  Co.,  Market  and  High 
Streets,  Muncy,  Pa. 

'  Computer  Operator  ~  Work  on  IBM  System  32.    Apply  Penn  Garment 
Co.,  2000  Mill  Lane,  Williamsporl,  Pa. 

Part-time  Jobs 

Waiters  and  Waitresses  --  Service  banquets  at  Genetti  Lycoming  Hotel. 
Also  buspersons  hosts  and  hostess  needed.    Apply  front  desk. 

Housekeeper  -  Only  persons  with  need  for  future  permanent  employment 
need  apply.    Apply  Leader  Nursing  Center  South,  323-3758. 

Babysitter  -  2 '/2 -year-old  boy  in  Faxon  area.  Phone  322-3750  after  5:30 
p.m. 

LPN's  -  Part-time  or  full-time  position.  Broad  Acres  Nursing  Home, 
R.D.  3.  Wellsboro,  Pa.,  call  717-724-3913. 

Babysitter  --  Late  afternoon,  early  evening.  Montoursville- 
Loyalsockville.    Phone  435-0507. 

Babysitter  —  Needed  in  home  a  few  hours  each  morning.  Maple  Avenue, 
Cochran  School  area.    Phone  326-2979  after  noon. 

Musician  --  Keyboards  for  forming  band.  Must  sing  and  own  equipment. 
Call  Rick  at  326-4455. 

Babysitter  -  Seeking  mature  responsible  person  for  employment  in 
wholesome  environment  with  infant  and  3-year-old.  References  required,  call 
398-1915. 

T.V.  Repairman  —  Michaels  &  Sons,  Inc.,  Muncy,  Pa.  Hours  flexible. 
On-Campus  Recruiting 

Today  ~  Quaker  Casting  Co.,  Lebanon  Pa.  will  recruit  machinist  general 
and  toolmakers. 

Tomorrow  —  Smith-Corona,  Cortland,  N.Y.  wilt  recruit  toolmakers, 
machinist  general,  electrical  constructions,  and  electrical  technicians. 

Wednesday  —  GTE  Sylvania,  Emporium,  Pa.  will  recruit  mechanical  and 
engineering  draftsmen. 

Monday,  March  10  -  Gulf  States,  Houston,  Texas  will  recruit  electrical 
constructors. 

Tuesday,  March  11  -  Envirotech  Corp.,  Harrisburg,  will  recruit  architec- 
tural, engineering,  and  mechanical  draftsmen  and  electronic  technicians. 
Employees  must  travel  75  percent  of  time. 

Wednesday,  March  12  -McCrory  Stores,  York,  will  recruit  business 
manager  trainees. 

Thursday,  March  13  -  EDS,  Camp  Hill,  Pa.,  will  recruit  computer  pro- 
grammers and  operators. 

Friday,  March  14  -  PP&L,  Allentown,  will  recruit  machinists  and 
plumbers  for  maintenance  work.   Must  live  in  Sunbury  or  Williamsporl  area. 


SPdTLK.HT 


Ph.   326-4197  or  368-2284   1301    High  St.  Wmspt.,Pa.17701    (!0®l?88O 


NANCY'S  PLACE 

::3CALL  IN  ORDERS 


322  9010  I 


536  W.  Third  St 
Williamsport,  Pa 


i 


Open  11  to  9  Daily  ,  /:^:^<y>>:<<:>>>.  Closed  Sunday 


i 


\ 


TONIGHT 

Klump  Academic  Center 
7:30  p.m. 

Admission:  $1.00 


R>R«GilT  YEARS 

A  DREAM  KEPT  Hm  ALIVE 

BUT  IN  A  MOMENT 

THAT  DREAM  WAS  SHATTERED. 

Now  he  has  only  one  thit)g  to  Uw  foi, 

and  when  he  goes  out  to  get  it, 

yooll  stand  up  and  cheer. 


R0I1IN6TI1MDEK 

Samuei  I  Arkod  preienls  A  LAWfttNCE  GORDON  PROOUCIION 

WILLIAM  DEVANE 
„.™.„„"ROLLING  THUNDER" 

Released  by  AMERICAN  INTERNATIONAL  PICTURES  also  stirring 

TOMMY  LEE  JONES  •  LINDA  HAYNES 

Eieculive  Producer  UWRtNCE  GORDON  Produced  by  NORMAN  I  HERMAN 

Oirecled  by  JOHN  FlfNN    Scetnolar  6,  PAUl  SCHRADERand  HEfWOOD  COULD 

SlotybyPAULSCHRADEfi    Music  by  BARRY  OeVORiON     A  TBC  f  ilm 

Color  b(  DELUXE'- 
Color  prints  byMOVIE LAB 


RESTRICTED* 


Major  Charles  Rane  went  to  Vietnam., 
and  came  home  to  war. 


Next  week:  '*Big  Wednesday" 
Admission:  $1.00 


MM!  I  I   K.H  r 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

Meetings 

WACC/WTI  alumni,  7  p.m.,  lonight.   Room  207.   Kliimp  Academic 
Center. 

Interclub  Council,  3:30  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  132  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Advisory  council,  3  p.m.,  Wednesday.  Room  207.  Klump  Academic 
Center.    Budget  for  next  year  will  be  passed  out. 
Concert 
The  Benny  Hester  Band.  S  p.m.,  Wednesday,  in  Bardo  Clym.    Free  to 
Students  with  I.D. 

Swimming 
Young  Women's  Christian  Asociaiion.  7  ui  «  p.m..  Thursday.    Free  to 
first  20  students  with  I.D. 

IM  Vnllevhall 
Women's,  tonight,  6:30  p.m. 
Men's,  tomorrow,  8:30  p.m. 
Co-ed,  tonight,  7:.30  p.m. 

Howling 
Bowling,  Thursday,  4  p.ni.  in  Ihc  Youu).'  Men's  Christian  Associalion. 


The  longest  reign  as  a  world  cham- 
pion is  27  years  hy  Ihc  Basque  lenni' 
player.  Picrn-  I  idih.islcr 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes         classes  Start  First  Week  of  Eacti  Month 

•  Local  Toutnamenis         ^J^MK;- -.-„-- --^^P_^ 
'  Cettlfisd  Belt  RanK         ^^^rr7«,:VrrT?;TTr^^^ 

Promotions  Q  ONE  FREE  LESSON  0 

Boys  &  Gills  Judo  Classes  ^  ihe  Golden  Oiaeon  ludo  ciubs  ^ 

Self  Defense/ Ju  Jitsu  Bfhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonH 
^  at  Williamsport,  Lock  (Haven,  g 
g  or    Milton  YMCA's  5 


Classes 

368-3295 


■/  >.T  l/ii'v  /i(i(j//>  (!„/  .V(ro*'.v  m. 


For  the  real  beer  lover. 


Home  Service  beverage  Co. 

Fittti  Avenue 

Williamsport 

323-3237 


Wildcats  finish 
with     12-1       r 

B>  Brian  Rippes 
III  ihr  spoil  K.lll  Slulf 

The  Wildcat  wresilmg  squad  com- 
plcied  their  best  season  ever  wiih  a 
come-lrom-bchind  22-14  siclory  oscr 
Ihc  University  of  Bucknell  iayscc 
squad.  The  triumph  gave  the  squad  a 
final  record  of  12-1. 

David  T.  Olver  (5-3).  sparked  a 
Wildcat  rally  witha6-l  decisional  158. 
The  decision  sliced  the  Bison  lead  to 
14-8. 

Anthony  A.  Tcssitore  111-2). 
scored  a  17-4  superior  decision  at  167 
to  pull  the  Wildcats  within  one  point. 

A  forfeit  at  177  gave  the  Wildcat'- 
ihcir  first  lead  of  the  evening,  19-14. 

Unbeaten  Thomas  H.  Husici 
(ll-D).  clinched  the  victory  wiih  a  6-1 
decision  at  190. 

The  match  was  started  at 
heavyweight  due  lo  an  agreement  bei- 
wecn  boih  coaches.  Dennis  L.  Wise 
(5-6),  was  defeated  6-1  to  begin  the 
dual  meet. 

Terry  I..  Schwab  (9-1),  evened  the 
score  at  three  with  a  10-4  decision  al 
118.  Schwab  dominated  the  bout  from 
his  feet  scoring  four  takedowns  lo 
garner  eight  of  his  ten  points. 

The  Wildcats  dropped  the  next 
three  bouts.  David  C.  Dinger  (7-2), 
was  defeaicd  8-6.  Bruce  A.  Rigard 
(10-3).  was  downed  8-2,  and  Michael 
1:.  Maneval  (6-4),  dropped  a  wild  14-10 
decision. 

EricS.  Haser(ll-2-n,  fought  to  a 
10-10  tie.  Haser  battled  back  Irom  a 
5-1)  dclicii  to  take  a  9-8  lead,  but  was 
lorccd  to  settle  lor  a  draw  in  ihe  1*^0 
pound  bout. 


campaign 
ecord 


Ihc  12  winv  marked  the  lirsi  iinie 
the  Wildcat •.  ended  with  II)  or  more 
victories  in  a  season.  The  one  deleat 
was  also  a  new  low. 

Coach  Max  G.  Wasson's  career 
record  at  the  College  now  stands  at  84 
wiuK.   33    losses,   and   2   iicv      In    II 
seastnis.  Wasson  has  led  his  Nqtiad  to 
seven  conference  championstiips. 

Others  who  wrestled  during  the 
season  were  Terrance  C.  Rosini  (7-2), 
Alan  Kifolo  (3-5),  Lance  Emick  (1-10), 
Donald  H.  Milne  (2-0),  Michael  H. 
Flinko  (1-2).  .lames  B.  Weinhoffer 
(0-1).  Leo  P.  Prcvsick  (1-0).  and  Scott 
A.  Miller  (0-1). 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 


HOURS 
7  a.m. 


Restaurant/Snack  Bar 


I 


WEEl\ 

'ECIAL   I 
fins 

u 


rSPECTAL  THIS  WE 

BREAKFAST  SPECIAL 

2  Egg-on-Muffins 

95c 

Reg    55c  e; 

SAVE  15c^ 

CiIlo\s  Special  Service: 

...call  ahead  for  take-out  orders    . 

iinii  we'll  have  the  order  readv  for  you  li> 

322-1321 

Across  from  Klump 
Open  fm  Breakfasl. ..7  a.m. 
Hreakfasi  served  'HI  lll:.W  a.m. 


EVERYTHING  YOUR 
COLLEGE  RING  SHOULD  BL 
AT  A  PRKE  EAR  LESS  THAN  GOi 


mm 


NEWLUSmiUM 
N0WS6895 

Date:  Feb.  25  to  March  7 
Time:  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 
Place:  College  BOOKSTORE 

JOSTEN'S 


SPOTLIGHT 


Wllllamsport,  P«. 


Some  members 
express  opposition 


Opposition  to  the  proposed  ad- 
ministrative reorganization  plan  was 
voiced  at  the  Board  of  Trustees 
meeting  iasi  Monday  evening. 

The  major  complaint  with  the 
plan  is  the  proposed  combination  ol 
the  secondary  and  post-secondary  pro- 
grams. 

Executive  Council  Member  Gene 
Smith,  representing  Williamsport 
School  District,  said  the  proposal 
would  "phase  out"  the  secondary  pro- 
gram, and  cause  it  to  "lose  its 
identity". 

Smith  was  concerned  about  the 
proposed  elimination  of  the  position 
for  dean  of  secondary  vocational  pro- 
grams, thereby  lessening  the  control 
that  a  dean  would  have  over  the  pro- 
gram. 

The  dean  position  would  be 
replaced  by  a  secondary  vocational  ad- 
ministrator who  would  deal  only  with 
secondary  programs  and  report  direct- 
ly to  a  vice-president  of  educational  af- 
faii^.  according  to  Dr.  Wiltram  H.  Fcd- 
dersen,  college  president. 

Smith  added  that  "a  number"  of 
other  school  districts  are  also  opposed 
to  the  elimination  of  the  dean  position 
and  the  combination  of  the  secondary 
and  post-secondary  programs. 

In  response  to  the  opposition.  Dr. 
Feddersen  said  there  was  "no  intention 
to  weaken  any  programs." 

Rather,  he  said,  the  new 
reorganizational  plan  would 
"strengthen  both  programs",  correc- 
ting a  "lack  of  cooperation  and  shar- 
ing of  equipment." 


Dr.  leddersen  added  that  the  pur- 
pose of  the  plan  is  "to  build  upon 
strength  already  there"  and  "improve 
programs". 

Trustee  Dr.  John  H.  Bone,  also 
said  the  reorganizational  plan  was 
"not  a  grand  plot"  to  put  down  the 
secondary  program. 

As  a  result  of  the  Board  meeting, 
Dr.  Feddersen  said  that  the  current 
proposed  reorganizational  plan  will  be 
refined  to  resolve  the  questionable 
matter,  or  a  new  plan  may  be  drawn 
up. 

Student  nurses  club 
visits  nursing  home 

The  Student  Nurses  of  WACC 
(SNOW)  were  to  have  sponsored  a  tea 
at  the  Leader  South  Nursing  Home 
from  2  to  4  p.m.  yesterday,  March  9. 

The  students  provided  homemade 
cookies,  coffee,  and  tea  for  the 
residents.  The  students  entertained  the 
residents  by  singing  hymns' 

Proof  selections  due 

Proofs  for  the  selection  of  the 
photo  to  appear  in  the  yearbook  have 
not  been  handed  in  by  about  100 
students,  said  Ms.  Kathyrn  Marcello, 
yearbook  advisor. 

Although  the  deadline  is  passed, 
Ms.  Marcello  said,  proofs  will  still  be 
accepted  until  the  end  of  this  week. 
Anyone  who  does  not  turn  in  their 
choice  will  have  their  photo  selected  by 
the     yearbook     staff,     she     added. 


The  Benny  Hcstnr  Band  performed  numerous  musical  numbers  last 
Wednesday  rvcninK  at  (he  Bardo  ilym  before  an  auidence  consislins  of  around 
400. 

Alpha  OmeKa  Kellowship,  in  enopcralion  with  Celebralinn  Ministries  of 
Sunbury,  sponsored  this  ennlempury  Christian  musical  group. 

The  sroup  was  well  received  by  Ihe  crowd,  and  after  the  concert  was  over. 
Benny  and  his  hand  brought  their  act  to  the  crowd  by  tall<ing  to  any  member 
of  Ihe  auidence  who  wished  to  talk  lo  them. 

The  Benny  Hestor  Band  played  from  around  8  lo  10  p.m.,  students  with 
ID  were  allowed  entry  into  the  concert  free. 


Guitar  duo  to  play  Thursday  in  Klump:  Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  will  perform 
from  7  lo  10  p.m.  Thursday,  in  the  Klump  Academic  Center  TV  Lounge  lor 
the  student  activities  coffeehouse,  according  lo  Mrs.  ,lo  Ann  R.  Kremiotli. 
The  two  classical  jazz  guitarists  have  been  playing  together  for  two  and  a  half 
years.  They  have  performed  al  19  colleges  in  Ihe  East,  Mrs.  Fremiotii  said. 
The  duo  sings  their  own  songs  that  >ar>  from  ballads  to  love  songs. 


Raffle  tickets  ready 
for  the  Varstiy  Club 

All  Varsity  Club  members  arc  ask- 
ed to  pick  up  their  raffle  tickets  as  soon 
as  possible,  according  to  Donna  L. 
Elsasser,  president  of  the  club. 

Members  can  gel  tickets  Irom 
Donna  R.  Miller  or  Harold  C.  Spccht. 
physical  education  mslruclors,  she 
said. 

The  rattle  drawing  is  March  19, 
she  added. 

Red  Cross 
Bloodmobile 
here  again 

Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean  for 
student  and  career  development  has 
recommended  thai  students  repay  the 
Red  Cross  for  all  the  services  they  have 
offered  by  giving  blood  this  week  when 
Ihe  Bloodmobile  comes  to  the  College. 
The  bloodmobile  will  be  here  tomor- 
row and  Wednesday. 

According  to  Dr.  Heiney,  the  Red 
Cross  has  helped  many  of  the  college's 
students  by  means  of  financial 
assistance  and  other  forms  of 
assistance  when  our  students  have  been 
under  severe  difficulties. 

Dr.  Heiney  staled,  that  one  of  the 
ways  in  which  the  Red  Cross  has 
helped  our  sudent  is  by  means  of  finan- 
cial assistance  to  (hose  students  who 
were  let  I  homeless  due  to  the  fire  which 
destroyed  pari  of  Center  City  approx- 
imately two  months  ago. 

Dr.  Heiney  pointed  out  that  over 
ihc  last  two  years  several  fires  in  stu- 
dent residences  have  resulted  in  over  50 
students  receiving  several  thousands  of 
dollars  in  Red  Cross  assistance. 

Dr.  Heiney  added,  students  in- 
volved in  .the  fire  received  money  for 
food,  clothing,  and  temporary  housing 
from  the  Red  Cross  after  the  disaster. 
He  added  thai  many  students  have 
participated  in,  and  benefitted  from, 
free  Red  Cross  courses  in  safety,  and 
first  aid  which  have  been  offered  at  the 
College. 


Lucasi  talks 
to  class  on 
city  issues 

Mayor  Stephen  J.  Lucasi  spoke 
about  city  hall,  lobbying,  and  business 
(rouhfes  In  ;i  College  government  class 
9  a.m..  Friday.  Feb.  29.  Dr.  Daniel  J. 
Doyle  is  instructor  of  the  class. 

Lucasi  was  formerly  a  member  of 
city  council.  He  was  also  the  head  of 
the  Center  City  Association,  a 
downtown  business  group. 

Lucasi  talked  about  the  controver- 
sy over  city  hall.     It  is  a  95  year  old 
building  that  should  be  demolished,  he 
said.     A  commercial  complex  would 
then  be  built  on  the  site,  said  Lucasi.Ci- 
ty  council  voted  down  this  proposal 
and  decided  to  preserve  the  building. 
According    to    Lucasi,    $700,000    in  t 
grants  would  have  to  be  obtained  for  a 
developer  to  preserve  the  building.         j 
Lucasi   mentioned   that   a  super-  i 
market  had  been  interested  in  the  site.    \ 
This  would  have  generated  new  taxes. 

"Do  we  save  the  building  and  ' 
pump  the  money  into  it.  or  tear  it  down  ! 
and  pump  the  money  out  of  It?"  he  I 
asked. 

Lucasi  said  that  one  of  the  main  | 
reasons  city  council  voted  to  preserve 
city  hall  was  a  public  meeting  which  al-  j 
traded  about  100  people.  Most  of 
these  people  were  for  preservation,  he 
said.  This  influenced  city  council  to 
make  their  decision,  said  Lucasi.  He 
used  this  as  an  example  of  how  lobby- 
ing influences  government.  He  pointed 
out  that  there  are  good  and  bad  points 
to  that. 

Lucasi  also  spoke,  about  how  the 
Lycoming  Mall  has  affected  business  in 
Williamsport.  He  talked  about  the 
problem  of  attracting  people  to  the 
business  in  town.  He  mentioned  that 
he  is  pursuing  the  idea  of  building  an 
mside  mini-man  in  the  area  downtown 
that  was  devastated  by  the  fire. 

Lucasi  also  talked  about  the  ad- 
vantages  of  a   partial   volunteer   fire  ' 
company  and  the  possibility  of  "farm- 
ing   out"    the    ambulance   service    to 
private  services. 


SI>(>T1  K'lHT 


cli      II).      Kill 


Whaddya'  Say. 

Interviews    and    photos    by    Larry    G. 
Steele 


01  The  SPOTLIGHT  SlaH 


Are  you  satisfied  with  the  educa- 
tion you're  getting  at  the  Col- 
lege? 


Teny  L  Corbin.  eiedncai 
conslruction  of  Danville  "Yeh.  I 
guess  " 


Rictiara  A  Zetby.  etecfncai 
consifuciion.  of  fienovo  Yes  I 
itiink  It's  prei'Y  Qooa  " 


I 

Paul  J  Syndei  3"3.  e'ecfncai 
construction  ol  Bufler  "I  feel  I'm 
qelUnq  fiiofp   than  I  expw'ed      I 

t/gurea  /  woufd  only  get  into,  my 
field  tjui  I'm  also  geiimg  inio  other 

fields 


ticniir}^  electrical 
ruction,  of  Ptiiilipsbutgh, 
"So  lar.  yes  " 


Dwigfii  C  Iviattin.  electnc 
construction,  ot  Avis  'Yes  I  thu 
itie  opportunities  tiere  are  reai 
good  I  itrnk  there  should  Pe  mo 
entertainment,  like  dances 


THE  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
weekly  throughout  the  academic  year, 
except  to(  college  vacations  by  jour- 
nalism and  other  interested  students 
Ollice  Room  7 ,  Klump  Academic 
Center  Telephone       (717) 

326-3761,  Extension  221 


THE  STAFF:    Managing  EdHor,  Janice  L    Daniel    Features 
and  EdUorlal  Page  Editor,  John  F    Zelewicz   Sports  Editor. 

Mollie  S    Zelewicz    Chief  Photographer.  Timolhy  A    Toth. 

Advertising  Representative  and  Senior  Slatt  Reporter,  Gail 

M    Thompson   StafI  Artists,  Gerald  J    Rexer  and  Michael  T 

Lekites.  Reporters.  Jacqueline  J    Cardene,  Lana  M    Apker, 

Robert  J    Allen.  John  L    RicKert    Brian  M    Rippey    Leslie  M 

Rogers,  Trudy  M    Shively.  Cindy  M    Snook    Larry  G   Steele, 

and  Robert  E    Thomas   Faculty  Advisor,  Anthony  N   Cillo 

Production  team  this  Issue: 

Jotin  F.  Zelewicz,  supervisor 

Jacqueline  J.  Cardene.  compositor 

Mollie  Zelewicz,  copy  control 

Brian  M.  Rippey,  Cindy  M.  Snook,  and  Robert  E    Thomas. 


World  of  Work 

Lislmiis  for  World  of  Work  are  provided  by  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director. 
Collene  PIdcemenI  office.  Inquiries  about  these  listings  should  be  directed  to 
that  office. 

Caretr  Employmenl 

Management  Training -Communily  branch  manager  with  experience. 
Send  resume  to  Recruiting  Human  Resources,  First  National  Bank  of  Pa.,  717 
State  St.,  Erie,  Pa.  16566. 

Machinist-Thompson  Equipment  Machine  Co..  Box  1946,  Route  5, 
York,  Pa.    17405.    Apply  Ralph  Bucklen.    Call  717-764-1 1 15. 

Accounting  and  Managemeni-ACF,  Second  and  Arch  Streets,  Milton. 
Pa  17847.    Apply  Mike  Roberts,  personnel  supervisor.  Call  717-742-7601. 

Operations  Manager -Kentucky  Fried  Chicken.    Apply  in  person,  1322 
West  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport. 

Management  Trainee-F.  W.  Woolworth,  840  Lycoming  Mall.  Muncy, 
Pa.    17756. 

Draftsmen,  Tool  Design-lngersoll  Rand,  Philipsburg,  N.  J.  08865.  App- 
ly personnel  officer. 

Welding  Supervisor,  Machine  Shop  Supervisors,  and  Tool  Designer~S- 
H-S  of  Easton,  400  Northampton  St.,  Suite  409,  Easton.  Pa.  18042.  Send 
resumes  c/o  Ron  Barry. 

Part-lime  Jobs 

Secretary-Three  mornings  per  week  in  real  estate  office.  Knowledge  of 
shorthand  helpful.    Phone  326-2848. 

Babysitter-Weekends  and  evenings.    Phone  322-5004  after  7:30  p.m. 

Housekeeper-Live-in  housekeeper  wanted.  Call  717-673-3239  in  the 
evening. 

Kentucky  Fried  Chicken-Day  and  night  shift  hours.  Apply  in  person, 
1322  West  Fourth  St. 

Dishwaher-Machine  operator  and  utility  person  needed  for  kitchen 
work.  Apply  in  person  only  from  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  Monday  thru  Friday  at  the 
Ramada  Inn. 

Autobody  Repairman-Applicant  must  own  tools  and  have  a  minimum  of 
three  years  experience,  preferably  with  used  car  preparation  and  recondition- 
ing.   Flexible  hours,  nights  and  weekends.    Call  322-4306  after  4  p.m. 

Housekeeper. -Four  or  five  days  a  week.  Apply  in  person  at  the  Colonial 
Motor  Lodge,  1539  East  Third  St.,  Williamsport  between  9  a.m.  and  5  p.m. 

Babysitter-Two  or  three  nights  a  week.    Phone  435-0817. 

Waitresses  or  waiters-Work  in  new  Italian  restaurant-Two  boys  from  Ita- 
ly.   Apply  in  person  at  1733  East  Third  St..  Williamsport. 

Medical  Attendant-$3.35  per  hour  first  three  months  and  $3.50 
therealler  plus  22  cent  weekend  dltferential.  Applicant  must  be  neat,  free 
weekends,  and  willing  to  learn.  Job  requires  close  work  with  patients  and 
physicians.  Apply  Williamsport  Hospital,  personnel  office,  with  complete  ap- 
plication. 

On-Campus  Recruiting 

Today-Representative  of  Gulf  States,  Freeport,  Texas  will  interview  for 
'  electrical  constructor. 

Tomorrow-Representative  of  Envirotech,  Lebanon,  Pa.,  will  interview 
for  architectural,  engineering  and  mechanical  draftsmen  and  electronic 
technologists. 

Wednesday-Representative  of  McCrory  Stores,  York,  Pa.,  will  interview 
for  computer  programmers  and  management  trainees. 

Thursday-Representative  of  EDS,  Camp  Hill.  Pa.  will  interview  for  com- 
puter systems  operators. 

Friday--Representative  of  PP&L.  Allentown.  Pa.  will  interview  for 
maintenance  personnel  in  Sunbury  and  Williamsport  areas.  Interviews  will  in- 
clude machinists,  welders,  and  plumbers.  Interviewees  must  sign  up  at  place- 
ment office.  Room  209,  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Monday,  March  1 7-Representative  of  Corning  Glass,  Corning,  N. V.  will 
interview  for  engineering  and  mechanical  draftsmen. 

Tuesday,  March  18— Representative  of  Tennessee  Gas  Pipe  Line,  Ham- 
burg, N.Y.  will  interview  for  personnel  with  FCC  license.  Interviews  restricted 
to  electrical  technicians,  electrical  constructors  and  electronic  personnel. 

Wednesday. -March  19— Representative  of  EL  Fab,  Bennett,  Texas,  will 
interview  for  machinists  general  and  tool  makers. 

Wednesday,  March  19-United  Republic  representative  will  interview  for 
insurance  representatives. 

Thursday,  March  20— Representative  of  Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Co. 
will  interview  for  business  managers  and  accountants. 

Friday,  March  21-Representative  of  Newport  News.  Newport.  Va.  will 
interview  for  mechanical  and  engineering  draftsmen  and  electrical  technicians. 

Deadline 
Extended! 

The  deadline  for  ordering  caps 
and  gowns  for  May  Commence- 
menl  has  been  extended  to... 

This  Friday 

Place  orders  today  at  the  Bookslore! 


PBL  Chapter 
recognized 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  and  its  slate  and 
local  advisor  Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  have 
been  recognized  by  a  nationally  cir- 
culated quarterly,  LEADER. 

In  a  regular  feature  in  which 
selected  outstanding  PBL  chapters  are 
mentioned,  the  College's  PBL  chapter 
was  cited  for  their  float  award  in  the 
Mummer's  parade  last  October.  Out 
of  400  national  chapters,  only  ten  or  so 
are  recognized  in  each  quarterly. 

Also  in  the  same  issue  of 
LEADER  was  a  letter  from  Goldfeder 
to  the  editor. 

LEADER  has  a  national  circula- 
tion of  400.000. 

Student  government 
will  meet  tomorrow 

The  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  will  meet  tomorrow  at  3:30 
p.m.,  Room  132  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

According  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant, 
SGA  members  will  have  their  yearbook 
picture  taken  at  this  meeting.  She  add- 
ed that  the  visits  to  several  curriculums 
by  the  SGA  have  been  very  successful. 


Organization 
to  supervise 
fund  raising 

The  Board  of  Trustees  has  ap- 
proved a  motion  lo  hire  the  Communi- 
ty Counseling  Service,  a  private  fund 
raising  organization  which  will  super- 
vise a  capital  campaign  lo  finance  the 
Stage  Two  building  program. 

According  to  Dr.  William  H.  Fed- 
dersen,  college  president.  Stage  Two 
will  cost  $6.2  to  $6.5  million  for  the 
complete,  long-range  plan. 

The  campaign  would  raise  $1.7 
million  as  its  goal.  This  would  match 
funds  from  the  state,  school  districts, 
various  grants,  and  the  capital  service 
fee  lo  finance  Stage  Two,  Dr.  Fed- 
dersen  said. 

A  "Planning  and  Directing  Com- 
mittee", consisting  of  15  business,  in- 
dustrial, and  tmancial  leaders  trom  the 
area,  will  be  formed  later  this  month, 
he  said. 

The  committee  will  organize  and 
then  eventually  conduct  the  campaign, 
Dr.  Feddersen  added. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  the  option  to 
discontinue  the  service,  which  costs 
$7,000  a  month,  can  be  made  at  the 
end  of  each  month. 


Wascher's 
Chiropractic 
Center  of  Life 

David  G.Wascher 
CtiiropractOf 


1905  Mill  Une 

Williamsport,  Pa. 

Phone  (717)  326-3393 

V  Appointment  Only 


Cife  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


HOURS 
7  a.m. 


Cillo's 
College 

__  •^4  p.m 

Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 


I   BREAK 
2  Eg 

I       . 


rSPEClAL  THIS  WEEKl 

BREAKFAST  SPECIAL 

2  Egg-on-Muffins 

95c 

Reg    55c  each 

SAVE  15c 


WEEiN 

'ECIAL   I 
fins 

u 


Cillo  *j  Special  Service: 

...call  ahead  for  take-out  orders 

and  we'll  have  the  order  ready  for  you  to 

pickup!  **^-fc      m^^m 

322-1321 

Across  from  Klump 
Open  for  Breakfast...  7  a.m. 
Breakfast  served  'til  10:30  a.m. 


Grit  editor  to  talk 
at  'Your  Own  Bag' 

Alvin  Elmer,  associate  editor  of 
the  national  edition  of  Grit,  will  speak 
at  ttie  next  session  of  "Your  Own 
Bag",  the  luncheon-lecture  series,  to 
be  held  in  Room  405,  Klump  Academic 
Center,  at  noon,  Friday,  March  14,  ac- 
cording to  Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney. 

Elmer  will  talk  about  his  job  as 
associate  national  editor,  and  the  dif- 
ference between  the  Grit  and  other 
newspapers. 

Elmer  was  formerly  city  editor  of 
Grit  and  then  state  editor.  He  has  been 
with  the  Grit  for  15  years. 

All  students  are  invited  to  bring  a 
lunch  and  attend  the  lecture,  said  Dr. 
Sweeney. 

Artists  hold  meeting 

Artists  Unlimited  held  a  meeting 
last  Tuesday  to  elect  new  officers  for 
the  Fall  semester  starting  in  August  of 
this  year.  The  meeting  was  attended  by 
.two  first  year  students,  according  to 
Gerald  J.  Rexer,  club  president 

The  main  subjects  discussd  in  the 
meeting  were  a  trip  lo  New  York  Cily 
Monday,  March  31,  and  a  talk  to  be 
given  by  a  professional  illustrator  for 
the  benefit  of  Art  students  on  Tuesday, 
March  1 1 . 

Anyone  interested  in  going  to  New 
York  City  should  get  in  contact  with 
Rexer. 

The  odds  for  an  exact  duplication  of 
a  fingerprint  are  about  64,000,000,000 
to  1. 


We  Buy  and  Sell 

MUSHROOM 

J29  Hepburn  St.. 
Williamsport,  Pa        322-4451 
Open  at  11.00  am  daily 
GiftsJewelry-Euphoric  Device 


FOOD 

SERVICE 

MENUS 

Monday  (tonight) 

Around  (he  World 

Italian  Wedding  Soup 

Beef  Rouladin 

Chaniilly  Polalnes 

Tos-sed  Green  Salad 

Russian  Black  Bread 

Fresh  Si ra  wherry  Filled  Scones 

Coffee-Tea- lied  Tea 

Wednesday 

All-S(ar  Special 

Cream  Broccoli    Soup 

Yankee  Pot  Roast 

H  hipped  Pnf aloes 

Vegetables  Jardiniere 

Confetti  Slaw 

Cniuy  Rolls 

H  hipped  Cream  Swans 

(ol fee-Tea-- Iced  Tea 


0  S('()Tir(.HT  Page     5 

Construction 

progress 

'considerable' 

Since  the  "weather's  been  good  to 
us",  there's  been  "considerable  pro- 
gress" and  the  Stage  1-Phase  1  building 
construction  program  is  now  33  per- 
cent complete,  according  to  James  O. 
Tule,  dean  of  secondary  vocational 
programs  and  executive  assistant  to  the 
president . 

Dean  Tule,  and  Donald  Sullivan, 
an  engineer  representing  Ewing-Cole 
Architects,  gave  a  brief  update  of  the 
construction  program  and  explained 
various  changes  to  be  made  in  the 
buildings. 

The  cost  of  the  changes  were 
allowed  for  in  a  contingency  fund  of 
$132,000,  Sullivan  said. 

Four  changes  were  discussed  and 
then  voted  upon  by  the  Board  of 
Trustees  at  the  March  meeting. 

Sullivan  added  that  the  welding 
facility  will  be  completed  and  "turned 
over"  to  the  College  well  before  the 
projected  time. 

WACC   Women  has 
"good    turn    out" 

The  WACC  Women's 
Organization  meeting  held  at  the 
YWCA  was  a  "success,"  according  to 
Jan  M.  Newton,  president.  She  said 
the   organization    had   a    "good   turn 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL   $.50 

per  game  during  open  bowling  hours 

10   a  m  ^to   5   pm     daily     Evenings   twI-W-Th. 
e  0  m    -o   II     l-r  aal  Sun  1  0  n  m    10  U  p  m 

YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 

Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 


Ph.   326-4197   or   368-2284   1301    High   St.  Wm8p«.,Pa.17701 


UJsiOlty 

UJ@DDl?S 


The  Golden  Dragon 

•  Adulf  Judo  Classes         classes  Start  First 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^^W 
>  Certified  Belt  Rank         ^^        -„,-  rnrr  i  ccCAM 

Promotions  Q         ONE  FREE  LESSON 

'  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  Ilie  Golden  Dragon  ludo  Clubs  V 

•  Self-Defense/Ju  Jitsu      Brhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessoiM 
Classes  ^     gt  Williamsport,  Lock  Haven,    g 

368-3295  $     °^  wmon  ymca  s        5 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


MOVIK 

■Rolling  Thunder".  7:30  lonighr.  Klump  Academic  Cenler  Auditorium. 


free. 


BLOODMOBII.F. 

Bloodmobile,  9:45  a.m.  lo  .3:45  p.m..  Tomorrow.  Bardo  Gym. 
Bloodmobile,  9:15  a.m.  lo  3:15  p.m.  Wednesday,  Bardo  Gym. 

MEKTINC 
Student  GovernmenI  Association,  4  p.m.  Tomorrow,  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

DANCE 
Dance,  8  p.m.  lo  niidnijjhi  Wednesday,  Lair,  free  to  blood  donors. 

COMMENCEMENT 
Practical  Nursing,  Class  33.  CommenccincnI.  Iriday. 


Mid-term  grades 
sent  out  this  week 

Mid-term  grade  reports  will  be 
sent  this  week.  Students  who  are  mail- 
ing unsatisfactory  grades  (D  or  F)  in 
any  course  at  this  lime,  will  be  notified 
by  mail,  according  to  Kathryn  M. 
Marcello,  director  of  student  records. 

Any  student  receiving  a  notice 
should  consult  with  their  advisor  and 
their  instructors  in  an  efforl  to  improve 
the  grades,  according  to  the  Director. 

Students  with  .satisfactory  grades 
will  not  be  notified  at  this  time,  she 
said. 

SGA  sponsors 
dance  Wednesday 

A  dance  sponsored  by  the  Student 
GovernmenI  Association  will  be  held  in 
the  Lair  from  8  p.m.  to  midnight 
Wednesday,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann 
R.  Fremiolli,  student  acuviiics  assib- 
tanl. 


Trustees  list 
retrenchments 

Two  instructors--John  Kroboth, 
instructor  in  automotive  mechanics, 
and  Mark  V.  C'happel,  instructor  of 
carpentry  in  secondary  vocational  pro- 
grams, will  be  issued  retrenchment 
notices  effective  the  end  of  the  current 
school  year. 

A  projected  drop  in  student 
enrollment  in  the  secondary 
automotive  program  was  the  reason 
for  Kroboth's  retrenchment. 

A  lack  of  student  enrollment, 
fmancial  considerations,  ad  progam 
curtailment  were  cited  as  reasons  for 
Chappel's  retrenchment. 

Instructors  who  will  not  be  ap- 
pointed lo  teach  next  year  are  Harvey 
J.  Penninglon,  instructor  of 
psychology,  and  Donald  Lemkuhl,  in- 


stru 


I  elec 


HEY  STUDENTS! 
Do  you  need  help  writing  a  paper?    Call 
Sara  322-2112  or  323-6077.    Iadi/t| 


•^ 


"Sure,  juin  our  study  aroup.  iiv'rc  iliniia  a  cii.sc  lus/orr. 


For  the  real  beer  lover 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 

Williamsport 

323-3237 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents... 


Klump  Academic  Center 


7:30  p.m. 
TONIGHT 

Admission:  $1.00 


FOR  EIGHT  YEARS 

A  DREAM  KEPT  HIM  ALIVE 

BUT  IN  A  MOMENT 

THAT  DREAM  WAS  SHATTERED. 

Now  he  has  only  otte  thing  to  live  tar, 

and  when  he  goes  out  to  get  it, 

you'll  stand  up  and  cheer. 


ROUJNGTHIINDER 

Samuel  I  ArkofI  piesents  A  WWMNCE  GORDON  PROOUCIION 

WILLIAM  DEVANE 
.t„„„„n  "ROLLING  THUNDER" 

ReleaseO  5y  AMtfilCAN  INIEflNftHONAl  PICIURES  alsoslaif.ng 

TOMMY  LEE  JONES  •  LINDA  HAYNES 

Eiecuhve  Produce!  LAWRENCE  CORDON  PtoducedbrNOftMANl  HERMAN 

OrfectedbtlOHNElYNN    ScfetnplajOy  PAUL  SCHRADERand HE VWOOD GOULD 

Slot!  bj  PAUL  SCHRADER    Music  by  BARRY  DeV0R20N     ATBCEdm 

,  ,     '°'.".'","™:!,  I'D  I     RESTRICTED  «^    I 


Major  Charles  Rane  went  lo  yielruim 

and  came  home  to  war. 


Next  week:  "Big  Wednesday" 
Admission:  $1.00 


THIS  is  Spring!? 


Thursday  is  ihc  tirsi  day  of  Spring  -•  ai  least, 
that's  what  the  calendar  reports. 

But  Mother  Nature,  having  a  last  fling  ap- 
parently, threw  on  a  new  white  outfit  at  the  end  of 
last  week...  Maybe  setting  a  fashion  trend  of 
white? 

Her  tling  at  whimsy  resulted  in  the  College 
begin  shut  down  at  3  o'clock  last  Thursday  with 
doubts  about  opening  on  Friday  morning. 


Monday.  March  17,  1980 


Vol.  15,  No.  22 


Wllliamsport 

Area 

Community 

College 

Willlamsporl.  Pa. 


4  Pages 


What's 
going  on 


SPOTLIGHT 

Bloodmobile 
i     exceeds  goal 
in  visit  here 


Varsity  Club 
raffle  March  19 

The  Varsity  Club  is  accepting 
donations  of  fifty  cents  each  for  raffle 
tickets,  according  to  Harry  C.  Specht. 
assistant  professor  of  physical  educa- 
tion. The  raffle  is  being  held  to  raise 
money  for  "the  purchase  of  varsity 
awards,"  Specht  said. 

The  drawing  will  be  Wednesday, 
March  19.  Tickets  are  available  from 
Varsity  Club  members,  who  may  be 
contacted  through  a  physical  education 
instructor,  Specht  said. 

First  prize  is  a  $30  gift  certificate 
from  Jon's  Sports  Specialists.  Second 
prize  is  a  $20  gift  certificate  from 
Wilson's.  Third  prize  is  a  $10  gift  cer- 
tificate from  Stereo  House. 

Circle  K  plans 
visit  to  elderly 

The  next  Circle  K  meeting  will  be 
at  3:30  p.m.,  this  Thursday  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  cafeteria,  ac- 
cording to  Krisly  L.  Wright,  club  presi- 
dent. 

Plans  for  visiting  a  home  for  the 
elderly  will  be  discussed  at  the  meeting, 
she  said. 

Several  members  of  the  College 
Circle  K  had  planned  to  attend  a  Circle 
K  convention  March  14.  15.  and  16, 
Miss  Wright  added.  The  convention 
was  to  be  held  at  Harrisburg. 


WWAS  vs.  WMPT      Interclub     Council 
to  sponsor  banquet 


A  basketball  game  between  the 
Wizards  of  WWAS  (the  College 
student-operated  radio  station)  and  the 
WMPT  Double  Dribblers  will  be 
played  at  7:30  p.m.  this  Thursday  in 
the  Bardo  Gym. 

The  game  is  being  played  to 
benefit  the  Multiple  Sclerosis  (MS) 
Society. 

According  to  Steve  D.  Berguson, 
WWAS  public  relations  director,  there 
will  be  no  admission  charge  for  the 
game,  but  donations  will  be  accepted. 

College  hosts 

EPCCAC 

tournament 

The  College  will  host  the  nine- 
teenth annual  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  Con- 
ference volleyball  tournament  Wednes- 
day, March  19. 

The  tournament  will  include  co-ed 
teams  from  Montgomery  County 
Community  College,  Bucks  County 
Community  College,  Luzerne  County 
Community  College,  and  Northamp- 
ton County  Community  College. 

The  tournament  will  be  officiated 
by  students  from  Lock  Haven  State, 
according  to  Harry  C.  Specht.  assistant 
professor  of  physical  education. 
Specht  said  that  spectators  are 
welcome  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  but  space 
will  be  limited  as  five  games  will  be 
played  at  one  time. 


A  student  rect)gnition  banquet  will 
be  held  at  6  p. in.  Wednesday,  April  23. 
in  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
cafeteria,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  student  activities  assistant. 
The  banquet  will  be  sponsored  by  the 
Interclub  Council. 

The  Council  has  issued  memos  to 
club  advisors  and  faculty  members  ask- 
ing for  selection  of  outstanding  student 
in  their  clubs  or  curricila.  The  memos 
are  to  be  turned  in  to  Room  136, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  no  later  than 
Thursday,  March  20,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

Advisors  are  asked  lo  choose 
students  on  the  basis  of  leadership 
qualities  and  service  to  the  College 
community,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

The  selected  students  will  be 
awarded  a  certificate  of  recognition, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  She  also  has  ask- 
ed that  the  advisors  present  the  cer- 
tificates to  the  students. 

WWAS  expanding 
its  broadcast  hours 

Radio  station  WWAS.  the  college 
station,  will  be  expanding  broadcast 
hours,  according  to  Clifford  C.  Hor- 
ton,  advisor. 

There  are  now  38  first  and  second 
year  broadcasting  students.  Norton 
said,  and  the  expanded  hours  are 
necessary  to  allow  alt  of  the  students  a 
chance  to  be  on  the  air. 


A  total  of  488  pints  of  blood  was 
received  by  ihe  Lycoming  Chapter  of 
the  American  Red  Cross  during  the 
Bloodmobile  visii  on  campus  last  Tues- 
day and  Wednesday. 

According  lo  Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Ar- 
nold, blood  service  coordinator,  516 
persons  came  to  donate  blood.  Of  that 
number,  28  were  deferred  due  to  illness 
or  because  of  medication  they  had 
taken. 

The  turn-out,  however,  exceeded 
the  goal  of  500  previously  set  by  the  the 
Red  Cross  personnel. 

The  persons  who  were  deferred 
were  still  "counted",  Mrs.  Arnold 
said,  because  ii  was  not  their  fault  that 
ihey  could  not  donate  on  the  scheduled 
d,T\s  She  added  that  their  "wilV 
iiigiicss  lo  Lk>naie  uas  appreciated"  by 
Ihc  Red  Cross. 

Mrs.  Arnold  also  especially  lauded 
students,  commenting:  "The  student 
help  was  terrific  -  as  always." 

Irish  scene 
in  window 

The  second-year  marketing  and 
merchandising  students  in  the  fashion 
merchandising  class  have  created  and 
Irish  pub  scene  in  one  of  the  display 
windows  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center,  according  to  Robert  L.  Lyons, 
instructor. 

The  window  is  in  honor  of, St. 
Patrick's  Day.  It  conveys  practical 
realism  with  artistic  design,  signs,  and 
atmosphere,  said  Lyons. 

Lyons  said  Ihe  purpose  of  the  class 
is,  among  other  things,  to  teach  how  to 
do  window  displays.  The  lab  ex- 
perience for  the  students  is  actually  do- 
ing displays  in  five  different  groups  of 
six  students. 

In  future  displays,  Lyons  said  the 
open  house,  the  business  symposium, 
and  the  bluegrass  concert,  among 
others,  will  be  featured. 

Later  in  the  spring  the  marketing 
and  merchandising  students  will  put  on 
a  fashion  show.  This  will  involve  both 
first  and  second-year  students.  Lyons 
said. 

The  clothes,  for  young  people  will 
be  donated  or  loaned  by  various  retail 
organizations  in  (he  area. 

Coming   ISexl    Week:      Special   Open 
House  Edition  of  the  SPOTLIGHT. 


Energy  team 
appointed 

A  learn  of  individuals  from  ihc 
College  has  been  appoinicd  lo  in- 
vestigate how  energy  might  be  em- 
phasized in  the  curricula  and  programs 
at  the  College,  according  to  Dr.  Ed- 
mond  A.  Wallers  3rd,  dean  of  degree 
and  ceriilicaie  programs. 

The  team's  first  meeting  was 
scheduled  for  Thursday,  March  6.  in 
the  Parkes  Automotive  Building  Con- 
ference Room.  Dr.  Walters  said  the 
process  will  be  a  two-phase  operation. 

The  first  phase  will  look  im- 
mediately at  what  the  College  should 
be  doing  this  Summer  and  l-all,  he 
said.  The  second  phase  is  what  the 
College  should  be  doing  on  a  long-term 
basis. 

Eight  persons  arc  on  the  team. 
They  are  Michael  A.  Sedlak,  associate 
professor  of  horticulture:  Alfred  L. 
Hauscr,  assistant  dean  of  secondary 
vocational  programs;  Dr.  l.uene  Cor- 
win,  assistant  dean  for  degree  and  cer- 
tificate programs. 

Also.  Paul  1,.  Helm,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  carpentry;  Melvin  K.  Wynn, 
electrical  construction  instructor,  and 
Lloyd  C.  Coiner,  assistant  professor  of 
architecture. 

Also,  Frank  Leach,  instructor  in 
plumbing  and  healing,  and  Dr.  Grant 
M.  Berry  .Ir.,  director  of  resource 
development. 

WACC  Women  meet 
this  Wednesday 

The  WACC  Women's  Organiza- 
tion will  mecl  this  Wednesday,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Jan  M.  Newton,  prcsi 
dent. 

The  meeting  is  planned  lo  be  held 
in  the  Creative  Crafts  Shop,  174  Valley 
St.,  DuBoislown. 

The  organizalion  will  demonstrate 
Easier  "crafts  and  ideas",  the  presi- 
dent said. 

Tryouts  set  for  tennis 

Tryouts  for  the  varsity  tennis  team 
will  be  held  from  2  to  5  p.m.  ne\t  Tues- 
day and  Wednesday,  March  25  and  26, 
in  Memorial  Park,  according  to  Harry 
C.  Specht,  tennis  coach. 

Spechl  added  that  in  case  of  incle- 
ment weather,  sividcnls  should  contact 
him  in  Bardo  Gym  for  new  dales. 

The  Chase  National  Bank  of  New.  York 
City  was  founded  on  Sept.  12, 1877. 


Play 

Lucky  Numbers 

Weekly 

Cilio's 
College 
Corner 

RestaurantfSnack  Bar 

H7A... 

II  hole  Siih  &  Med.  Drink 

(Drawing  on  hriilay) 

This  Week's  Special 
Whole  Grilled  Ham  &  Cheese 

(Reg.  $3)  $2.80  ISavc  20  cenls] 
(Ta\  Included) 


New  York  trip 
tickets  on  sale 

Tickets  arc  available  for  iheSatur- 
dav.  March  29,  New  York  City  trip,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolli, 
student  activities  director. 

The  tickets  are  available  in  Room 
132,  Klump  Academic  Center. 

A  bus  will  leave  Bardo  Gym  thai 
day  at  6:30  a.m.  and  leave  New  York 
City  at  9  that  night. 

Price  of  the  tickets  is  $16  lor 
students,  facully,  and  alumni,  and  SI8 
for  the  public.  Also,  tickets  for  the 
Radio  City  Music  Hall  Easter  Show  arc 
available  for  an  additional  $7.50,  Mrs. 
Fremiolli  said. 

Deadline  lor  purchase  of  tickets  is 
Ihis  Thursday,  she  said. 

Additional  information  may  be 
obiaincd  by  telephoning  Extension  269 
or    hv    coniading    Mrs.    Fremiolli    in 
Room  132.  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Aviation  instructor 
new  at  the  College 

James  E.  Doebler  is  a  new  avia- 
tion instructor  this  semester. 

A  resident  of  Muncy  Valley, 
Doebler  is  married.  He  is  a  graduate  of 
the  Williamsport  Area  High  School, 
1962,  and  a  graduate  of  the 
Williamsporl  Area  Community  Col- 
lege, 1966. 

Prior    to    coming    lo    teach    this 
semcsier,  Doebler  worked  at  Towanda 
Aviation  as  an  aircraft  maintenance 
supervisor. 

He  enjoys  hunting  and  fishing  in 
his  spare  lime,  he  said. 

Doebler  recently  attended  a  Ihree- 
day  mainicnance  license  school. 

Bergerstock  chosen 
for  evaluation  team 

Dr.  Donald  D.  Bergerstock  has 
been  chosen  by  the  Middle  Stales 
Association  of  Colleges  and  School  lo 
evaluate  the  Howard  Community  Col- 
lege in  Columbia,  Maryland.  The 
evaluation  will  lake  place  March  9-12, 
1980. 

Dr.  Bergerstock,  director  of  the 
Business  and  Computer  Science  Divi- 
sion, will  be  one  of  seven  team 
members.  The  team  will  be  looking  at 
various  programs  at  the  college.  The 
team  will  also  talk  to  administrators, 
faculty,  and  the  sludenl  body. 

The  purpose  of  the  evaluation  is 
to  deicrmine  if  the  college  is  qualified 
lo  gain  accredation. 

ENERGY. 
We  can't 
afford  to 
waste  it. 

SPOTLIGHT 

FIfSI  Place 

Award  Winner 

The  Columbia  Scholastic 

Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  publisiied  weekly  ihroughoul 
Hie  academic  year  except  lor  College  vacalions 
bv  lournalism  sludenls  and  other  inleiested 
students  Ollice  Room  7.  Klump  Academic 
Cenlei  Telephone-  (717)  326-3761.  Extension 
7■^\ 


hihn  I    Rick.?rt  Bn.^ri  M   Rippev  Cindv  K 
and  Laiiy  G    Steele     Facully  advisoi 


World  of  Work 

World  nf  Hork  is  a  regular  feallire  iif  The  SPOTLIGHT,  in 
cooperaimn  with  the  Crillenc  Placement  Office.  Infiirmalion  is  siipi>lieil 
directly  hv  the  Placement  Office,  hu/iiiries  ahimt  the  lisitnits  should  he 
directed  lo  persons  nr  telephone  niimhers  listed  or  lo  the  Placement  Of- 
fice. 

CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 
Business  Manager  -  needed  for  a  group  of  young  physicians.    Ex- 
perience preferred.    Send  resume  to  Box  Z-2,  Sun-Gazette. 

Materials  Control  Manager,  Chem  Engineer.  Sales  Manager  -  Contact 
Peter  DePasquale  Associates.  460  Markel  Si..  Williamsporl,  or  call  326-1736. 
Fees  paid  by  company. 

Auto  Mechanic  -  with  Pennsylvania  Inspection  License  -  Foltz  Buick, 
333  E.  Third  St.,  Williamsporl.    Apply  in  person. 

Experienced  Carpet  and  Vinyl  Installer  ~  Sears,  phone  546-8441  or 
322-4751  for  appointment. 

Computer  Programmer  ~  ANS,  CoBOL,  or  ALC  Language.  Send 
resume  to  Personnel  Officer,  Norlhern  Central  Banl<,  P.  O.  Box  3068, 
Williamsport. 

DenlalReceptionist  -  Type  60  wpm.  Send  resume  lo  Dental  Care  Associa- 
tion. Lvcoming  Mall,  R.  D.  2,  Muncy,  Pa. 

Nuclear  Field  Trainees  -  Call  toll  free,  800-692-7800  from  9  lo  I  daily. 

Architectural  and/or  Sign  Painter,  Art  Designer  -  Bacon  Signs,  36  Third 
St.,  N.E.,  P.  O.  Box  3,  Minol,  N.D.  58701.    Attention:    Mr.  Ernie  LeBlanc. 

Electronic  Tech  or  Electrical  Tech.  -  Harris  (Semi-Conductor  Group).  P. 
O.  Box  883,  Melbourne,  Fla.  32901.  Apply  to  Mr.  R.  J.  Skellie,  personnel 
represenlalive. 

Welding  Toolmaking,  Machinists  General  -  Bowen  McLaughlin,  P.  O. 
Box  1512,  York,  Pa.  17405.  Apply  lo  Mr.  Vince  Jones,  vice  prsident  of  pro- 
duction. 

LPN  -  Broad  Acres  Nursing  Home,  R.  D.  3,  Wellsboro,  Pa.  16901 .  App- 
ly to  Ms.  Alice  VanHorn,  chief  of  nurses.    Call  717-724-3913. 

Manager  ~  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken,  1322  W.  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport. 

Keypunch  operators  ~  Northern  Central  Bank.  P.  O.  Box  3068, 
Williamsport.    Reply  lo  Personnel  Office. 

LPN's  -  The  Williamsport  Hospital,  777  Rural  Ave.,  Williamsporl. 
Contact  Personnel  Department. 

PART-TIME  JOBS 

Driver  --  with  pickup  van  to  deliver  GRIT  newspapers  to  outlets  in  the 
Pine  Creek  area.  Contact  Kurt  Lamade  al  326-1771,  Extension  35,  after  1:30 
p.m. 

Bartenders  -  day  and  night  shifts,  experience  preferred.  Apply  to  Mr. 
Lathburg  or  Mr.  Tedesco  al  the  Holiday  Inn.  Williamsporl.    No  phone  calls. 

Housekeeper  -  to  live  in.    Call  717-673-3239  in  evenings. 

Loving  babysitter  -  needed  in  home  for  8-monlh-old  child.  Own 
transportation  necessary.    Evenings.  433-3830. 

Salespersons  ~  sell  Avon  in  spare  time.    Call  323-7308. 

Cashier  -  split  shift.  Apply  in  person.  No  phone  calls.  Bair's  Truck 
Stop.  Hepburnville. 

Gas  Attendant  -  9  to  5  and  5  lo  1  a.m.  Apply  in  person.  Bair's  Truck 
Stop.  Hepburnville. 

Roofer  --  Experienced  roofer  wanted.    Phone  745-7500. 

Supervisor  of  Production  -  second  shift,  local  company.  Reply  Box  Z-4, 
Sun-Gazelle. 

Part-lime  Sales  -  hours  flexible.   Reply  Box  Y-25,  Sun-Gazette. 

(Informalion  about  various  summer  employment,  oul-of-slate,  available 
at  the  College  Placemen!  Office,  second  floor  of  Klump  Academic  Center.) 
CAMPUS  RECRUITING 

Today  -  Corning  Glass.  Corning,  NY.,  group  meeting,  9  a.m.,  Klump 
Academic  Center  Auditorium.    Drafting  personnel. 

Wednesday,  March  19  -  United  Republic,  Jersey  Shore,  rep.  Sales  Reps, 
needed.    Group  meeting,  9  a.m. 

Wednesday,  March  19  also  --  The  Mann  and  Parker  Lumber  Co.,  New 
Freedom.    At  Earth  Science  Building. 

Wednesday,  March  19  also  -  EL  Fab,  Bennett,  Tex.  Group  meeting, 
Klump  Auditorium,  at  9  a.m.    Inleviewing  machinists  and  toolmakers. 

Thursday,  March  20  —  Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Williamsporl, 
rep.   Group  meeting,  9  a.m.,  Klump  Auditorium.    Sales  reps  needed. 

Friday,  March  21  --  Newport  News  Ship  Builders,  Newport  News,  Va. 
Group  meeting  al  9  a.m.,  Klump  Auditorium.  Interviewing  mechanical  draft- 
smen, engineering  draftsmen,  and  electrical  technicians. 

Monday,  March  24  -  Boise  Cascade,  Allentown,  Pa.,  Group  meeting  at 
10  a.m.,  Klump  Auditorium.    Inleviewing  machinists,  toolmakers. 

Tuesday,  March  25  --  K-Mart,  Williamsport,  rep.  Group  meeting.  9  a.m., 
Klump  Auditorium.    Inleviewing  for  management  trainees. 

Wednesday.  March  26  -  C.  E.  Air  Prchert,  Wellsville,  N.Y.  Group 
meeting  al  9  a.m..  Klump  Auditorium.  Interviewing  mechnical  draftsmen  and 
engineering  draftsmen. 

Thursday.  March  27  -  Valley  Design,  Johnson  City,  N.Y.  Group 
meeting.  9  a.m.,  Klump  Auditorium.  Inleviewing  mechanical  draftsmen, 
engineering  draftsmen,  and  graphic  arts. 

Friday,  March  28  -  Borg  Warner,  York,  Pa.  Group  meeting,  9  a.m., 
Klump  Auditorium.    Interviewing  welders  and  machinists. 


Ph.  '326-«1(7   or  368-2284  1301    High  St  Wm«pt.,Pa.17701 


\i'"^'\«m>>xii!i>'JfSSf:-'XfS&tXii&-:i'SliS>^^^ 


S^TUOHT  MMd«v.  March  17.  ItlQ  3 


Checking:   Kris   Karshner.   service   and   operation 
major,  compares  build-up  against  directions. 


Conference:  From  leH,  Paul  K.  Saupp,  plumbing 
major,  and  Patrick  A.  Simpson,  also  a  plumbing  major. 


l.ibby  S.  Foust,  automotive 


Learning  to  write 
with  the  'Lego  System ' 

By  Leslie  Rogers 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Sludenls  in  the  Communications  course,  which  is  designed  for 
appHed  arts  certificate  students,  have  just  completed  a  new  and 
unusual  project,  according  to  Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney,  instructor 
ol  the  class. 

The  students  were  assigned  in  pairs  to  invent  and  build 
machines  out  of  Lego  blocks.  Each  student  was  then  given  an  hour 
10  write  instructions  on  how  to  assemble  the  machine  he  and  his 
partner  made.    No  drawing  of  the  machine  were  allowed. 

The  machines  were  then  disassembled,  put  into  separate  bags, 
and   handed   in   to   Dr.   Sweeney,   along   with   the   instructions. 
Students  received  an  "A"   if  Dr.  Sweeney  could  assemble  the 
mai.hmc  from  the  msirucuons  given. 

The  students  learned  many  things  from  their  experience,  said 
Dr.  Sweeney. 

The  students  learned  the  most  when  they  had  to  put  together 
other  students'  machines  from  the  students'  instructions,  he  said. 
They  learned  that  extra  explanations,  color  coding,  and  coding  by 
the  number  of  holes  helped  in  the  instructions.  "It  was  a  real 
challenge,"  said  Dr.  Sweeney. 

Dr.  Sweeney  obtained  five  Lego  sets  for  the  project  at  cost 
from  the  Lego  company's  headquarters  in  Connecticut,  the  Par- 
ticular set  needed  was  no  longer  sold  in  the  United  States,  and  was 
shipped  from  Europe.  "They  were  very  helpful,"  said  Dr. 
Sweeney. 

SPOTLIGHT  Photos  by 

Bob  Allen 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slatr 


Instructors  attend  material  conference 


Thomas  Leitzel,  an  instructor  in 
marketing  and  merchandising,  and 
Christopher  Radke,  an  associate  pro- 
fessor in  building  construction,  recent- 
ly attended  an  instructional  material 
conference,  according  to  Dr.  Edmond 
A.  Walters  3rd,  dean  for  degree  and 
certificate  programs. 

The  conference  was  held  March 
3-5  at  the  Clark  Technical  Institute  of 
Ohio.    Representatives  from  ten  other 


colleges  in  the  Midwest  and  East  at- 
tended the  conference,  said  Dr.  Wal- 
ters. 

The  purpose  of  the  conference  was 
to  discuss  techniques  and  skills  to  im- 
prove instructional  material  such  as 
films  and  other  audio-visual  aides. 
The  two  will  then  discuss  these  ideas 
with  faculty  and  staff  at  the  College, 
said  Dr.  Walters. 


Menu  for  "An  Emerald  Evening" 

Today,  Monday,  March  17  -  St.  Patrick's  Day 

5:30  P.M.  to  6:30  P.M. 

Beefy  Vegetable  Soup  /  Batler-Dipped  Country  Fried  Chicken  /  Or, 
for  the  Diet-Conscious  Crispy  Brown,  Oven-Baked  Chicken  / 
Savory  Noodles  Creole  /  Creamed  Spinach  vi/ilh  Mushrooms  / 
Golden  Glow  Salad  /  Frosly  Chocolate  Mint  Pie  /  Icy  Spiced  Tea  or 
Piping  Hot  Cotlee  /  Dessert  a  la  Carle  / 
$2.25  /  /  /  /  Served  by  Members  ol  Quantity  Food  Preparation  Class  / 
Food  and  Hospitality  Department  )  Mr.  Kevin  Fazler,  Manager  ' 


The  Golden  Dragon 

•  Adult  Juilo  Classes         Classes  Start  ~ 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^^^SKK^ 

•Sfon^"""'    ^     onefrTeTesson" 

•  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Dragon  Judt)  Clubs 

•  Self-Defense/Ju  Jitsu 
Classes 


368-3295 


Brtiis  Coupon  Good  foi  One  Free  Lessong 
S     at  Wllllamsport,  Lock  Haven,    m 


>,Deiuxe  Cheeseburgers,  Subs,  Pizza,  Beverages*: 


or    Milton  YMCA's 


Open  1 1  to  9  Daily 


Closed  S'^ndayJ 


WACC  Cinema  Cluh  Presents... 

Tonight 

7:30  P.M. 

Klump  Academic  Center 

Admission:  $L00 


A  story  of  three  friends  growing  up 
in  the  sixties;  of  ten  years  filled 
with  parties,  weddings  and  uncertainties; 
and  of  the  day  we  all  must  face... 


^^vxmiox:  sxiiKir 


.A-TEAM  ,»..., 'BIG  WEDNESDAY" 

.„.,™,  JAN-MICHAEL  VINCENT  •  WILLIAM  KAH  •  GARY  BUSEY 

c oPAHl  DARBANVILLE  •  LEE  PURCELL 

.,,,.» b,  JOHN  MILIUS  « DENNIS  AABERG  ,»„«„c..»,  BUZZ  FEITSHANS 

«...„«..„JAMARAASSEYEV, ALEX  ROSE  «c.,o»,  JOHN  MILIUS 

,».>„„.-e,„„.„,o.,GREG  MACGILLIVRAY  »..„ ..BASIL  POLEDOURIS 
PANAVISION"  •  METROCOLOR^"' 


OD  DOLBY-  SOUND 


o 


Some  of  the  most  spectacular  surfing 
scenes  ever  filmed! 

In  Cinemascope 


Next  Week:   For  surfers  who  survived 
'Big  Wednesday'... 

''JAWS'' 


Activities 
discussed 
at  SGA  session 

open  House,  Spring  Event,  up- 
coming elections,  and  ihe  College 
recreation  room  were  among  the  topics 
discussed  at  iasl  week's  Student 
Government  Association  (SGA) 
meeting. 

George  F.  Stephens,  SGA  vice 
president,  said  that  anyone  interested 
in  helping  SGA  with  an  Open  House 
activity  should  contact  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Frcmioiti.  student  activities  assistant. 
Mrs.  Fremiotli's  office  is  Room  136. 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

The  next  SGA  meeting  will  be  at  4 
p.m..  next  Tuesday.  March  25.  in 
Room  \}2,  Klump  Academic  Center. 


BULLETIN 
BOARD 

Coffee  House 

Coffee  House  sponsored  by  ihe 
Student  Government  Association.  7  to 
10  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Klump  Academic 
Center  student  lounge. 
Movie 

"Big  Wednesday",  surfers'  saga. 
7;30  tonight.  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Charily  Basketball 

Benefit  Multiple  Sclerosis  Society, 
Wizards  of  WWAS  and  Ihe  WMPT 
Double  Dribblers,  7:30  p.m.  this 
Thursday.  Bardo  Gym 

Truslees  Meeting 

College  Board  of  Trustees.  7:30 
p.m..  Monday,  April  7.  Parkes 
Automotive  Building. 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIMHIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIItllllll^ 

St,  Patrick 's  Day  Special 

50  Cents  Off!  | 

All  Foliage  Plants 

Offer  Good  With  This  Coupon  Only      [ 

Today,  March  17,  1980  j 

I 

S<//<'  S/nmsnml  hv  II  ACC  HoiiuuUiiiv  Cluh  | 

Plants  On  Sale  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  I 

in  Klump  Academic  Center 


IHome  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 
py^      .,      -     ,,  ,  Wllliamsport 

troT  the  real  beer  lover.  323-3237 


800  students  expected 
to  attend  Friday's 
business  symposium 

B>  lurry  Slcolc 

(>l    lh<'  M>l>|l  11,111   M:,|| 

Over  S(HlMinlcnl>.;ircc\pcLlcd  loiillcfKl  llicsiMh  aniiiial  Business  Lduta- 
lion  SvinpoMum  slak-d  liir  this  hridav  al  llic  C'ollcsic. 

Cosponsors  of  Ihe  even!  are  Ihe  Bu>.mess  and  Compuler  Science  Divisioni 
ol  Ihe  C  oik-uc  and  Phi  Bcia  I  aiiihda  (Pl)l  ).  biivincss  liaicriiin 


SPOTLIGHT 

THE  WILLIAMSPORT  AREA  COMMUNITY  COLLEGE 
Monday.  March  24.  1980 Vol.  15.  No.  25  8  Pages 


t'ncilairnicn  iil  Ihc  suiiposiiini  arc 
Paul  W.  tloldlcdcr  and  Miss  Pairicia 
.1.  Sluill.  boih  assisiani  prolcssois  in 
hnsiMcss  adminisiraiiiin. 

Ihc  sinilcnis  c\pccicd  m  alicnd 
aic  In.jh  scluMil  scinors  Ironi  55  hiull 
schools  honi  HI  conniics.  The  svm- 
posnini  vmII  I.im  Ironiahoul  Sa.m.  lo4 
p.ni,  PHI  nicmhcrs  wMI  scr\c  a< 
uindcs    and    uill    also    help    condnci 

Trophies  to  be  awarded 

Ihcic  arc  IS  calcijorics  ol  coni- 
pcMhon  Ihls  year.  Trophies  will  be 
iiiven  lo  ihe  lop  ihree  linishers  in  each 
area  ol  conipeiilion. 

C'aieuories  include  bookkeeping, 
advanced  and  beiiinninu;  shorihand. 
advanced  and  beeinning;  lypewriiing. 
atlvanced  and  beeinnini!:  and  business 
and  economic  compciency. 

Also  business  law.  business 
machines,  business  maihemaiics.  and 
business  proiccis  display.  Oihcr  areas 
include  compuler  programming,  dala 
proccssine.  lilijli!.  and  keypiinchine. 

Oiliers  are  sales  lalks.  spelling. 
and  vocabulary  rclav. 

Full  day  planned 

The  siudenis  will  be  greeted  in  Ihc 

morning    by    Dr.    William    Homisak. 

assislani     lo    Ihe    prcsidcni.     by     Dr. 

tRli'ii'^e  mm  in  Pave  St 

National  editor 
of  Grit  speaks 
on  newspapers 

Alvin  N.  Elmer,  associale  nalional 
ediior  of  the  Grit,  spoke  about  news 
and  fealure-wriling  during  the  last  ses- 
sion of  "Your  Own  Bag",  the  lun- 
cheon lecture-discussion  series  held  at 
Ihe  College. 

The  ediior  spoke  at  noon,  Friday. 
March  14,  in  Room  415,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Elmer  discussed  the  difference 
between  conventional  newspapers  and 
the  nalional  edition  of  Grii.  He  com- 
pared the  Grit  to  (he  television  show, 
"Real  People". 

He  said  ihat  the  Grit  is  mostly 
"feaiure-orienied  materia!." 

Elmer  said  the  newspaper  uses 
some  celebrities  as  features  in  articles, 
but  that  the  effort  is  made  as  much  as 
possible  to  use  "ordinary"  people. 

Elmer  reviewed  his  job  as  an 
associate  editor.  He  noted  thai  the  job 
emails  picking  and  selecting  articles, 
layout,  photos,  and  assignment  of 
stories. 

Elmer  talked  about  the  three  edi- 
tions of  Grit:  the  national,  the  slate, 
and  ihe  local.  He  said  that  the  local 
edition  is  mostly  conventional  news 
while  Ihe  nalional  edition  is  mostly 
feature  articles.  "They're  really  two 
differeni  newspapers,"  he  said. 

Elmer  also  noted  Ihal  the 
newspaper  seeks  to  attract  young 
readers  and  he  commented  on  the  com- 
petition    between     newspapers     and 


Adn 


Variety  show 
this  Thursday 

The  variety  show,  "Reaching 
Out",  will  be  presented  at  8  p.m.. 
Thursday  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  Auditorium  by  members  of  the 
Theater  Company  under  (he  direction 
of  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire. 

The  show,  which  includes  drama, 
comedy,  dance  routines,  and  music,  is 
scheduled  to  last  about  an  hour  and  a 
half,  Mrs.  Frymire  said. 

The  show  will  open  with  a  medley 
of  songs  by  a  large  number  of  the  cast. 
The  arrangement  was  devised  by  Mrs. 
Frymire. 

Robert  A.  Schweppenheiser  will 
s'^ii  a  solo  inside  of  the  opening 
number  and  then  return  later  to  sing  an 
aria. 

Excerpts  from  "My  Fair  Lady" 
will  be  done  by  Mary  Kay  Danneker. 
Dan  A.  Dumville,  Marilyn  R.  Surfield, 
William  Wields,  and  Margaret  E. 
Bubb. 

Other  students  who  will  appear  in 
Ihe  show  are  Leslie  M.  Rogers.  Jeffrey 
L.  Kaiherman,  Michelle  A.  Engie, 
Steve  J.  Morrow,  Eric  R.  Brannaka, 
Lisa  L.  Kepner,  Crystal  J.  Yaw,  and 
Kimberly  A.  Steele. 

Also,  Viola  L.  Hursh,  Anita  L. 
Lawton.  Donna  G.  Lofton,  Lawrence 
A.  Fink.  Brian  M.  Rippey,  Joyce  M. 
Hudson.  Barry  J.  Opdahl,  and  Cynthia 
L.  Wright. 

Mark  Repella,  a  Lycoming  Col- 
lege student,  will  also  be  in  the  show, 
Mrs.  Frymire  said.  Tim  Mullen,  a 
graduate  of  the  College,  will  play  the 
piano  for  some  of  the  songs,  she  add- 
ed. 


Registration  begins 
today  for  summer 

Registration  for  the  May  and  June 
terms  begins  today,  according  to 
Kathryn  M.  Marcello,  director  of  stu- 
dent records. 

Students  are  being  asked  to  do 
their  schedules  with  the  appropriate 
division  offices,  she  said. 

The  last  day  lo  schedule  for  the 
May  term  is  Wednesday,  May  14.  The 
last  day  lo  schedule  for  the  June  term  is 
Wednesday,  June  18. 

Students  in  construction  carpen- 
try, diesel  mechanics,  and  electrical 
construction  are  exceptions:  Their  last 
schedulmg  date  is  Wednesday.  June  4. 

Calendar  approved 

The  1980-1981  College  calendar, 
which  was  reviewed  in  the  Feb.  25  issue 
of  The  SPOTLIGHT,  was  approved  by 
the  Board  of  Trustees  at  their  March 
meeting.  Included  in  the  calendar  will 
be  a  winter  break/Presidents'  Day 
vacation  on  Feb.  16  and  17.  1981. 


The  Bardo  Gym:  Kchoes....S>f  Pa^e  4 


Energy  forum 
to  be  held 
at  Lycoming 

"Energy. ..with  Justice  for  Alt", 
the  second  of  three  energy  forums,  will 
take  place  from  7:30  to  9:30  p.m..  this 
Wednesday  ai  Lycoming  College. 

This  forum  is  part  of  a  program 
entitled  "Energy  and  the  VVay  We 
Live:    A  Nalional  Issues  Forum". 

The  program  is  sponsored  through 
the  Williamsporl  Area  Community 
College  by  the  American  Association 
of  Community  and  Junior  Colleges, 
with  funding  from  Ihe  Nalional  En- 
dowment for  Ihe  Humanilies. 

"Energy. ..with  Justice  for  All" 
will  include  discussions  on  such  issues 
as  energy  alternatives,  cost  of  energy, 
energy's  effects  on  the  environment 
and  on  public  health. 

Four  panelists  will  be  on  hand  to 
present  iheir  particular  views  on  the 
issue:  Dr.  Richard  R.  Erickson,  pro- 
fessor of  physics  and  astronomy  al 
Lycoming;  Dr.  Robert  Rabold,  pro- 
fessor of  economics  al  Lycoming; 
Maurice  Forrester  Jr..  of  the  Sierra 
Club  (to  discuss  environmental  issues), 
and  Dr.  D.  John  Wright,  of  the 
radiology  department  of  Geisinger 
Medical  Center. 

Forum  planners  also  hope  to  have 
a  fifth  panelist  --  an  attorney  who 
could  discuss  the  energy-relalcd 
abridgements  of  personal  liberty  and 
property  rights. 

There  is  no  charge  for  admission 
to  Ihe  forum.  There  will  be  an  oppor- 
tunity to  ask  questions  al  the  end  of  the 
forum. 

Hoagies  to  be  sold 

Quantity  foods  students  will  offer 
hoagies  to  the  high  school  students  at- 
tending the  Business  Symposium  on 
Friday. 

The  hoagies  will  be  available  to 
ihese  students  in  the  hall  in  front  of 
Room  107.  ot  the  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Chairmen  of  the  hoagie  project 
are  Rick  J.  Burick  and^  Ann  M. 
Thomas. 


Nursing 
students 
graduated 

Tweniy-fivc  siudenis  were 
graduated  from  Ihe  College  nursing 
program  on  Friday,  March  14.  Dr.  Ed- 

mond  A.  Wallers  3rd.  dean  for  degree 
and  cernheale  programs,  was  (he  mam 
speaker. 

Dr.  Robert  G.  Bowers,  director. 
Math,  Science,  and  Allied  Health  Divi- 
sion, presented  the  graduates.  Grant 
M.  Berry, retired  dean  of  studeni  ser- 
vices, presented  awards. 

Steven  M.  Slycrs.  ol^  New  Berlin, 
received  the  Helen  A.  Smith  Award  (or 
great  achievement  in  theory,  prae- 
ticum,  and  personal  growth. 

Mrs.  Jacqueline  1.  Vanderpool.  of 
406  C'halham  Park,  received  the  Ellen 
Harding  Berry  Nursing  Award  lor 
outstanding  scholastic  achievement 
and  exceptional  ability  in  practicum 
and  communication  skills. 
Other  graduates  are: 
Mrs.  Linda  Auchter.  of  409 
Kramer  Court;  Mrs.  Diane  Barger.  of 
953  Market  St..  South  Williamsporl; 
Mrs.  Lois  Fair,  of  163  Kennedy-King 
Manor;  Mrs.  Caroline  Fessler.  of  2509 
W.  Fourth  St.;  Miss  Patricia  Leahy,  of 
47  W.  Fourth  St.;  Miss  Janie  Long,  of 
924  Cherry  St..  Montoursville;  Mrs. 
Susan  Preston,  of  Williamsporl  RD  I; 
Miss  Debra  Schelb.  of  610  Ames  Place; 
Mrs.  Ann  Schleiden.  of  2716  W. 
Fourth  St..  and  Miss  Teresa  Stells.  of 
47  W.  Fourth  St. 

And.  Miss  Edna  Yohe,  of  Jersey 
Shore;  Mrs.  Dora  Brown,  of  Mon- 
toursville RD  4;  Mrs.  Marlene  Corson, 
of  Muncy  RD  2;  Miss  Goldy  Delker.  of 
Muncy  RD  2;  Miss  Tami  Mausleller.  of 
Montgomery  RD  1;  Miss  Hope 
Morlock.  of  Jersey  Shore  RD  4;  Miss 
Evelyn  Bridge,  of  Turbotville  RD  I 
Miss  Cheryl  Goss.  of  McClure  KU  z; 
Miss  Sara  Hunt,  of  Forksville;  Mrs. 
Phyllis  Kallemeres.  of  Genesee  RD  2; 
Mrs.  Jane  Lewis,  of  Walsontown;  Miss 
Slacy  Reed,  of  Selinsgrove.  and  Miss 
Roxann  Wiedman;-of  Wesifield. 


Monday.  March  24    1980 


VIEWPOINT 


Lobby  displays 
are  enjoyable 

What  do  paintings,  arrowheads,  posters, 
alcohol  conlainers  and  cards  have  m  ccnnmon' 

They  are  some  o(  Ihe  jmany  obiecis  lo  be 
found  in  Ihe  dillerent  window  displays  m  the 
Klunnp  Academic  Cenler  lobby 

Congratulated  are  all  those  who  worked  10 
present  these  displays 

The  displays  represent  a  great  deal  of  thought 
and  lime  They  are  a  great  way  to  show  the 
talents  and  various  aspects  ol  Ihe  various  cur- 
ricula 

The  displays  also  present  enjoyable  and 
attractive  items  for  sludenls  and  facully  alike  lo 
enjoy 

To  those  who  have  done  displays  and  to 
those  planning  displays  Keep  them  comingi 
They're  great' 


To  one  and  all: 
we  bid  welcome! 

The  SPOTLIGHT  welcomes  everyone  lo  the 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College's  Open 
House 

We  also  compliment  students,  facully.  slaff, 
and  administration  and  friends  of  the  College  who 
had  a  hand  in  making  this  year's  Open  House 
possible 

A  lot  of  work.  time,  and  effort  goes  into  mak- 
ing an  event  such  as  this  a  success 

Over  the  years.  Open  House  has  become  an 
important  part  ol  the  College's  activities  And.  in 
the  past.  It  has  been  a  large  success 

As  we  know  this  year's  will  be 

Again  Welcome' 

Mini-torial:    Anger  seems  lo  make  your  mouth 
work  taster  thsr)  your  mind 


YOU 


caring 
for 


YOU 


Can  food  make  a  winner? 


yon  csiing  lor  Yon  is  a  requLT  ipHiiiro  oi  i  ne 
SPOTLIGHT  This  column  is  written  by  dietetic  tcchn.cian 
sllldenis  ni  Itie  College  on  jn  altem^liinq  basis     Opinions  i-" 

pressed  rnay  or  may  not  reflect  Ihe  opinion  ol  this  newspriper 

(Information  for  this  article  was  obtained  from 
articles  written  by  the  American  Olympic  teams 
and  published  in  the  Nutnlion  Today  Journal 
(November-December)  The  student  writer  also 
uses  his  experiences  as  a  body  building  enthusiast 
and  lille-winner  | 

By  Chris  Steinbacher 

Ivly  interest  in  athletic  nulrilion  has  resulted 
mainly  from  what  I  find  to  be  a  basic  misconcep- 
tion about  what  to  eat  lor  the  highest  level  of 
physical  performance  which  the  body  will  allow 


Red  Cross  says  thanks 

A  Letter  to  the  Editor 

I  am  forwarding  tor  publication  a  letter  from  Ellen 
H  Arnold.  Blood  Services  Coordinator,  tor  the  in- 
terest of  our  students 

Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti 
Student  Activities  Assistant 

As  always,  it  was  a  pleasure  for  me  lo  work 
With  you  and  the  students  of  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College  on  your  spring  Bloodmobile 
As  you  know,  the  final  count  for  the  two  days  was 
48R  Mjccesstul  donors  and  28  deferrals,  totalimq 
516  volunteers  who  came  to  support  your  visit 
That  IS  an  excellent  showingi 

The  help  we  received  Irom  Ihe  students  in  all 
areas  of  our  operation  was  terrific  Please  convey 
our  appreciation  to  all  of  them  Patients  in  area 
hospitals  will  indeed  appreciate  the  efforts  '  ■  the 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College 

Again,  congratulations  on  a  |0b  well  cone  -- 
and  we  look  forward  lo  returning  to  WACC  in  the 
tall 

Ellen  H.  Arnold 

Blood  Service  Coordinator 

Lycoming  County  Chapter 

,/,'*•* V>V.*i'  '  American  Red  Cross 


The  superstitious  attitudes  ol  athletes  and 
coaches  toward  food  is  obvious  to  those  who 
have  ever  observed  wrestlers  suct^mg  on  bottles 
ol  honey  before  a  match  or  weightlifters  downing 
their  protein  supplements  between  workouts  or 
football  players  rievouring  their  steaks  before  a 
game 

Looking  for  better  ways 

Athletes  are  conslantly  looking  lor  better 
ways  to  improve  their  performance  and  fad  diets 
are  no  exception  These  fad  diets  are  often 
"swallowed  whole"  without  any  scientific  basis 
supporting  them  or  any  amount  of  skepticism  on 
the  athletes'  part 

Are  there  special  nutritional  needs  for  athletes 
during  training  and  competition''  Research 
literature  has  made  clear  that  the  athletes'  nutrition 
needs  do  not  vary  from  those  of  the  sedentary  in- 
dividual, other  than  quantity 

The  result  of  any  deficiency  is  much  more 

marked  in  the  athlete      Therefore,   Ihe  athlete 

should  slick  to  a  good  baste  diet  because  deficien- 

Please  turn  to  Page  3 

THE  SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
The  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Association 

TM-     SPOTIK^HT     IS     puhlistii") 


THE  STAFF      Managing  Editor     nm.  .     i 

and  Editorial  Page  Editor    jnhu  F    /ii... 

MiiiiM     s     l•■\•■\^'u   ■     Chief  Photographer,    rimnliiv 

Advertising  Representative  and  Sefnor  StaM  Repoi 

M     llvimi.sc.n    StaM  Artists    (..h,i,i    i    ii...,.r    mri  M 
l.'k.ti-N    Reporters     Ii'M'M' ■    i    (."  inli-tn-    I   umW 


Production  Team  This  Issue: 
Brian  M   Rippey.  supervisor. 

ana  M    Apker    Leslie  M    Rogers. 

irry  G   Steele   Gail  M    Thompsor 


FROM  MY  DESK 

Dolphins  slaughtered 
despite  all  protests 

From  My  Desk  is  a  regular  tealure  ot  The 
SPOTLIGHT,  written  by  slatt  members  with  par- 
ticular interests  Opinions  expressed  may  or  may 
not  reflect  Ihe  opinion  ol  the  newspaper 

By  Trudy  Shively 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

On  Feb  28,  lishermen  on  Ihe  Iki  Island,  600 
miles  southwest  of  Tokyo,  began  slaughtering 
hundreds  of  dolphins  despite  protests  from  inter- 
national environmentalists 

The  fishermen  complain  that  the  dolphins 
have  been  devouring  yellowlail  and  squids  on 
which  Ihe  people's  livelihood  depends  Their 
"solution"  IS  killing  and  processing  50  lo  60 
dolphins  DAILY  until  the  more  than  300,000  inno- 
cent creatures  are  completely  destroyed  Equally 
as  callous,  their  carcasses  are  being  used  as  fer- 
tilizer! 

1  have  spent  many  hours  researching 
dolphins  and  their  vitality  This  precious  waste  of 
these  highly  intelligeni  and  passionate  mammals 
is  beyond  comprehension  I'm  asking  for  your 
help 

Write  to  your  legislators,  your  senators,  or 
directly  lo  Washington  in  protest  ol  these  violent 
butcheries    Do  it  today 

Any  companionship  we  find  is  a  precious 
reward.  The  devotion  and  friendship  of  the  dolphin 
has  been  constant  and  unyielding  throughout  the 
cenluries  together  we  can  preserve  this  har- 
mony tor  the  iulure 


Television  review 


'Dallas'  now  hottest 
'soap'  of  the  80s 

By  Trudy  Shively 

01  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

"Dallas"  on  CBS  on  Fridays  al  1 0  p  m  .  is  the 
hoMesl  "nighi  time  soap  opera"  ol  the  80s  M's  Ihe 
program  everyone  is  ravmq  about  -  and  for  many 
reasons 

The  series  revolves  around  the  fanlasticaily 
wealthy  Ewmq  clan  -  a  back  slabbing  Texas  fami- 
ly more  inletested  in  oil  callie  and  high  living  than 
in  each  other  Each  week  is  a  continuation  of  their 
greed  lor  more  and  how  ihey  use  power  lo  gt^t  il 

The  program  explodes  with  violent  tamily 
feuds,  biiier  halreds  immorality  and  sex  --  all  the 
ingredienis  tor  the  recipe  of  "success"    And  that  il 

IS 

Although  seemingly  "evil"  at  times,  the  show 
indeed  invests  in  profound  issues  One  episode 
reveals  a  character  s  sifuqqie  lor  survival  tollow- 
ing  a  heart  attack  while  anolher  exposes  Ihe  fear 
of  reality  m  facing  a  masleclomy 

Both  produce  an  inspiring  and  compas- 
sionate outlook  on  lite 

"Dallas"  IS  packed  with  enough  problems  lo 
inleresi  most  anyone  and  an  unparralleled  cast  lo 
exerciSf^  all  ot  ihem 

No  publication 
on  Easter  Monday 

The  SPOTLIGHT  will  not  be  published  tvlon- 
day.  April  7,  the  Ivlonday  after  Easter,  because 
that  day  is  part  of  the  official  College  Spring 
Recess 

The  next  issue  of  the  newspaper  will  be 
distributed  on  Ivlonday.  April  14 


SPOTLIGHT  3 

Monday   March  24    1980 


Can  food  make  a  winner? 


(Continued  from  Page  2) 

cies  or  excesses  can  impair  performance 

The  quantity  o(  Itie  ideal  diet  is  determined  by 
the  need  to  maintain  an  ellicient  body  weighl  and 
to  meet  ttie  increased  energy  demands  ol  training 
How  good  you  are  in  ptiysical  activity  is  determin- 
ed mainly  by  the  amount  ol  training  done  and 
secondarily  by  body  weigtit 

Try  the  skin  fold 

Excess  body  weight  carried  by  an  individual 
increases  the  consumption  ol  oxygen  needed  and 
also  hinders  the  efliciency  ol  movement  The 
body  does  require  a  certain  amount  ol  lat  to  lunc- 
I  i  0  n 

The  best  way  to  determine  il  an  athlete  is  car- 
rying an  overabundance  ol  lat  is  by  using  calipers 
which  measure  the  thickness  ol  a  lold  ol  skin  and 
gives  the  athlete  an  idea  ol  how  much  excess  lat  is 
being  carried 

Women,  in  general,  have  a  higher  lat  content 
than  men  A  healthy,  well-nourished  woman  has  a 
20  to  25  percent  lat  content  as  opposed  to  a  1 0  to 
1 5  percent  lat  content  for  men 

There  are.  ol  course,  some  sports  where  a 
larger  percentage  ol  lat  does  not  seem  to  hinder 
perlormance  Many  single  ellort  type  spoils  such 
as  throwing  the  shot  put  or  weightlilting  would  lit 
into  this  category 

Determine  oxygen  use 

The  second  laclor  which  determines  the 
quantity  ol  lood  needed  in  an  athlete's  diet  is  the 
need  to  supply  a  sullicient  number  ol  calories  ac- 
cording to  the  athlete's  energy  demands  This  is 
determined  by  his  size,  metabolic  rate,  and  inten- 
sity and  duration  ol  his  sport 

The  most  practical  way  to  determine  the 
number  ol  calories  needed  for  a  sport  is  by  the 


amount  ol  oxygen  consumed  during  a  sport  A 
cross  country  runner  (high  oxygen  sport)  will  need 
more  calories  than  a  shot  putter  (low  oxygen 
sport) 

Oxygen  consumption  and  caloric  needs  also 
increase  as  the  rate  ol  muscle  contractions  in- 
crease This  IS  because  the  oxygen  required  to  in- 
itiate a  contraction  is  greater  than  the  oxygen 
needed  to  hold  a  contraction 

No  one  'best'  food 

For  this  reason,  running  and  swimming 
-which  require  frequent  muscle  contractions  and 
relaxations  -  use  more  calories  than  gymnastics 
which  relies  to  a  greater  extent  on  maintaining 
contractions 

This  brings  us  to  the  question  of  what  one 
food  should  an  athlete  eat  to  increase  his  calories'' 
Actually,  there  is  no  one  best  lood  to  eal  -  but  a 
variety  of  good  foods  in  extra  portions  help  supply 
the  extra  calories  needed 

An  athlete's  diet  should  contain  1 5  percent  of 
the  calories  from  protein,  30  to  35  percent  Irom 
fat.  and  50  to  55  percent  Irom  carbohydrates 
These  percentages  diller  quite  a  bit  Irom  the  stan- 
dard American  diet  which  derives  more  calories 
from  lal  and  protein  souces  The  reason  lor  the 
high  percentage  ol  carbohydrates  in  the  athlete's 
diet  IS  because  carbohydrates  are  the  most  elli- 
cient type  ol  luel  used  by  the  body 
Pasta...  a  good  source 

Many  Americans  believe  that  carbohydrates 
are  fattening,  but  actually,  one  gram  ol  car- 
bohydrat  contains  only  lour  calories  while  one 
gram  ol  lal  contains  nine  calories 

The  best  sources  of  carbohydrates  is  contain- 
ed in  starches  such  as  spaghetti,  bread,  nee,  or 
pasta   Cakes  and  cookies,  etc  are  less  desireable 


because  they  contain  few  vitamins  and  have  a 
signilicant  lat  content 

The  recommended  1 5  percent  protein  may 
entail  a  relative  decrease  in  some  individual's 
diets  -  which  runs  into  the  old  theory  that  athletes 
need  more  protein  to  build  larger  muscles 

If  the  minimum  of  protein  ts  taken  in,  then  the 
size  of  the  muscle  depends  on  the  physical  de- 
mand placed  on  the  muscle  to  make  it  grow, 
rather  than  a  high  level  ol  protein 

Make  sure  enough  calories  are  being  taken  in 
so  that  the  protein  can  be  used  lor  building  muscle 
and  nor  lor  a  source  ol  luel  The  protein  consum- 
ed should  be  ol  "high  biological  value"  -  which 
means  the  source  contains  all  ol  the  eight  essen- 
tial ammo  acids  necessary  in  order  lor  the  protein 
to  be  used  by  the  body  These  loods  include 
meat.  fish,  cheese,  eggs,  and  milk 
Sticic  to  good  diet 

An  athlete  on  a  high-protein  diet  may  run  into 
difficulties  later  in  life  because  it  increases  the 
workload  of  the  liver  and  kidneys  which 
metabolize  protein  and  eliminate  its  waste  pro- 
ducts 

In  summary  of  what  has  been  stated  in  this  ar- 
ticle, remember  to  take  in  enough  calories  to  meet 
the  increased  energy  demands  of  trairiing  and 
maintain  an  elficient  body  weight  according  to  the 
type  of  sport 

The  easiest  and  most  efficient  way  of  doing 
this  IS  by  slicking  to  a  good  basic  diet  containing 
loods  Irom  all  ol  the  lour  basic  food  groups 
breads  and  cereals,  fruits  and  vegetables,  meats 
and  poultry,  and  dairy  products  This  will  ensure 
that  the  proper  amount  of  vitamins  and  minerals 
are  being  taken  in  tor  a  strong  healthy  body  ody 


Business  symposium 


tCoiiluiued  from  Pane  1/ 

Donald  B.  BcrucrmcK-k.  biisincvi  and 
conipiilcr  science  di\  i\K>n  director,  and 
iiy  Andrew  W.  Went?.  PBl   president. 

A  t'lili  day  ol  aetiviiics  is  planned 
—  inctttdinu  a  data  processing  area 
dcnioMstraiion  and  a  word  processing 
inl"ormatit>n  center  demonstration. 

At  il:V)  a.m..  a  disco  will  be  fur- 
nished by  radio  station  WWPA  in  Ihe 
gym.  Also  in  the  gym  will  be  volleyball 
games  and  c\hihitors  ol  ciirreni 
business  ec|iiipnicni.  These  activities 
will  last  until  I  p.m. 

New  this  year  will  be  two  reatitrcs. 
starling  at  I  p.m. 

A  I'ashion  show  to  be  staged  by 
inarkeling  ami  merchandising  students 
will  he  held  in  the  auditorium  ot 
Kltimp  Academic  Cenier. 

Also   in    the   auditorium    will    be 
about    a    hall    hour    ol    a    Broadway 
rcsiew.  entitled  "Reaching  Out". 
Awards  at  3  o'l'liick 

Two  guided  lours,  at  10  a.m.  and 
at  II  a.m..  will  he  provided  lor  the 
students. 

At  ^  p.m.,  the  siudenis  will  gather 
in  ihc  audiioriiim  lor  the  awards 
prcscnlalion.  Si\lv-si\  trophies  will  he 
\Lncn  oiil  lor  Ihc  dillcrciil  csciils. 


I  hrec  grand  pri?cs  will  be  given  to 
the  schools  with  the  highest  ac- 
ciimiilalcd  point  inuils  lor  their  divi- 
sions. Three  trophies,  donated  by  the 
IX-partmenI  ol  Education  in  Har- 
risburg.  will  he  given  to  the  schools 
with  the  highest  point  totals  who  also 
have  a  Future  Business  Leaders  ol" 
America  (FBI  A)  chapter  at  the  school. 

The  highlight  ol  the  presentations 
will  be  the  awarding  ol  three  $11)0 
scholarships  to  students,  .lack  lowry 
will  donate  the  scholarships  and  will 
also  make  the  presentations. 

-ludges  lor  Ihe  events  will  be  Col- 
lege laciiliy.  professional  stall,  and  in- 
vited business  prolessionals, 

Maynard  C.  Buitcrworth,  a  lourih 
semester  marketing  and  merchandising 
siudcnt.  will  he  the  symposium  coor- 


Dinner  catered 

Quantity  foods  students  catered  a 
dinner  for  the  Forestry  Advisory  Com- 

millee  a(  the  Earth  Science  Campus  on 
Tuesday,  March  18.  Attending  were  27 
persons. 

Miss  Julia  A.  Erb  was  in  charge  of 
meat  preparation.  Mis  Erb  was  aided 
by  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  quantity  foods 
instructor;  Rick  J.  Burick,  Kimberly 
Fox,  Carmi  Deparasis,  and  Diane  M. 
Bergman. 

I  Monday  (Tonight)  | 

I  Tasle  of  Ihe  Orienl  ■ 


Ahi 
schools 

The 
wide  ack 
journals 

The  Jo 

III   51)  teachers  from  the  high 
vill  attend  the  symposium, 
symposium  has  received  siaie- 
nowlcdgenienl  in  educational 
according  to  Goldlcdcr. 

Ihlllf  Knr 
MtHutiirm  Oranvi'  Sf//( 

(/.■i.ciir  «/.//> 

Ir.Mv  Itmiii  Slu-rln 

1  nriww  (  V«/«ii' 

(liiiii'w  rat 

Wednesday 

by  the  collapse  of  the  South  Fork  Dam  on 
May  31 ,  1889.  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  2,209 
persons. 


PREPARE  FOR  A  CAREER  IN  THE  FIELD  OF 

RESPIRATORY  THERAPY 

PROGRAMS  OF  STUDY  z«::^:'6ti':rj:::^''::z\tL:: 


thet  inlarmolion  or  applicQiion  form  and  c 
COLLEGE  OF  ALLIED 

EALTH  PROfESSlOtMS 


nGii 


Hahnemann  Medical 

College  &  Hospital 

230  N.  Broad  St.,  Phila.,  Pa.  19102 


448.8288 


BAKE  SALE 

1:  Wednesday,  March  26 

Klump  Lobby 

10  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 

Benefit 

Computer  Science 

and  Computer  Operators 

field  trip 


Buy  a  McChicken 

and 

Large  Fry 

Get  A  Free 
Medium  Soft  Drink 

With  This  Coupon 

McDonald's 

1940  Lycoming  Creek  Road 

and 

Route  IS-Soulti.  Soulli  Wiliiamsporl 


Cmipiw  Expires  April  10.  1980 


The  Golden  Dragon 

•  Adulf  Judo  Classes         Classes  Start  f 

•  Local  Tournaments         ^^^^K 

•  Certified  Belt  RanK         ^^        nuF'racc  TfckCM 

Promotions  Q         ONE  FREE  LESSON 

•  Boys  &  Gills  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs  g 

•  Self  Defense/Ju  lltsu      Brhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessoiM 
^     at  Willlamsport,  Lock  Haven,    m 

368-3295  $      ""  MmonYMCA s        8 


Classes 


4  SPOTLIGHT 

Monday   March  24.  1980 


MM    The  Bardo  Gym, 


The  character  of  Bardo  Gym  channes  often  during  a  single 
day.  ■  ■  ranging  from  office  and  classroom  lime  to  general  workouts 
and  sporting  events  time. 

Entering  the  building,  the  visitor  comes  upon  the  trophy  case 
and  locker  room,  reminders  of  what  has  been  gained  in  in- 
lerscholaslic  competition.  Walking  along,  the  visitor  might  see  a 
gym  class  involved  in  gymnastics  or  Thomas  E.  Vargo,  athletic 
director,  at  work. 


On  the  gym  floor  itself,  another  gym  class  is  involved  in  a 
volleyball  game  -  //  they  find  the  ball! 

When  the  class  day  is  over  and  the  gym  "relaxes",  it  entertains 
a  variety  of  people  with  a  variety  of  skills...  basketball  games  are  a 
big  part  of  the  afternoon...  a  frisbee  is  tossed  about. ..in  the  weight 
room,  weights  are  hoisted  or  the  speed  bag  pounded  or  friends  box 
a  few  rounds... 

...and  'sometimes,  the  gym  resn...  closed,  quiet... 


','^bove:  Trophy  case.    Right:  Lisa  Foncarl  works 
'.'•with  beam.    Below;  Classroom. 


Above.-   Thomas  E.    Vargo.     Below:  Gym  class 
playing  volleyball. 


Above  left:  Playing  hoops.   Above  center:  Frank  Mitchell  practices  with  his  frisbee.    Above  right:  Bill  Fessler 
works  out  on  thi  spied  bag 


\  l>lit>lnt'^w\  In    hilt  1  nth    SPOT  I  lOII  I  plu,t<mitiilti 


Sunday,  March  23,  1980 


Supplement  to  The  SPOTLIGHT 


Deep  in  Ihe  hills  of  the  bcauliful  Susquehanna  Valley  lies  the  cily  of  Williamspiirl,  home  of  the  Williamsporl  Area 
Community  College. 

The  College  has  brought  eduealion  into  Williamsporl  and  surrounding  areas  since  1965  and  improvements  are  be- 
ing made  every  day. 

A  major  project  of  improvement  now  underway  at  the  College  includes  a  welding  facility  and  a  new  learning 
Resources  Center. 

For  ankle  and  more  photos  about  the  building  program,  please  turn  to  Page  2.  this  section. 

Welcome  to  Our  College 


Al  lliis  very  exciting  momeni  of  physical  growlh 
oil  campus,  I  am  delitthled  to  have  the  opponimily  lo 
extend  lo  each  Open  House  visilor  a  warm  welcome. 

11"  voii  have  never  visited  any  of  our  campuses 
before,  I  ihink  you  will  be  in  for  a  few  pleasant  sur- 
prises. WACC  is  changing,  nol  only  with  ihe  needed 
consiruclion  of  replacement  facilities,  bul  ihroiigh  the 
program  and  service  changes  in  response  to  regional 
needs. 

Each  year  al  Open  House  Ihe  faculty,  staff,  and 
sliidenis  discover  new  ways  of  displaying  and 
demonslraling  programs,  new  cquipmeni,  and  Ihe  pro- 
ducts of  Ihe  educational  process.  You  will  find  llial  our 


programs  are  constantly  being  updated  in  response  to 
changes  in  lechnology. 

At  WACC,  the  world  of  work  and  education  aren't 
separate,  bul  one.  As  a  community  college,  WACC 
reprcsenis  a  sound  inveslmenl  in  the  communily's  most 
valuable  resource  -  people. 

I  hope  you  enjoy  yourself  and  gel  caught  up  in 
Ihe  excitement  as  you  lour  our  facilities  and  campus 
sites.  As  a  college  created  to  serve  the  community,  we 
are  pleased  to  have  you,  ihe  members  of  our  communi- 
ty, as  our  special  guests  today. 

Hilliam  H.  Feddersen 
President 


S-2     Open  House  Edition 
SPOTLIGHT:  Sunday.  Marcli  23. 1980 1 


Top:  Sleelwork  for  lynrninK  Resources  C'enler  i 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

Bnllom:  Weldini;  Kacilily  ederior  is  almost  completed. 


Club  members  today  staff 
Information  Center 

The  Sludeni  Government  Associa- 
tion along  with  the  Inierclub  Council 
will  operate  an  information  center  in 
from  of  Klump  Academic  Center  to- 
day during  Open  House. 

According  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremioiti,  sludeni  activities  assistant, 
the  Iwo  organi/.alions  --  as  well  as  some 
of  their  alumni  -  will  be  giving  campus 
information  to  anyone  with  questions 
concerning  ihe  College. 


i  seen  from  the  nmf  of  the 


SSS^S*:s-WS¥:SS5-S: 


5:SS«i¥:¥:¥SK::¥:WSS 


The  Open  House  Edi- 
tion, published  in  coniunc- 
lion  with  Ihe  weekly 
SPOTLIGHT,  IS  produced 
entirely  by  tirst-year  jour 
nalism  students  of  the  Col 
lege  The  staff  thanks  the 
many  College  ad 
minislrators,  faculty,  staff 
and  students  who  have 
helped  by  furnishing  i 
mation  and  ideas 


Staff;  Larry  G.  Steele,  managing  editor;  Cindy  IM. 
Snook,  layout  and  design  editor;  Robert  J  Allen, 
chief  photographer;  Leslie  fW.  Rogers,  editor  for 
Earth  Science  Campus;  John  L.  RIckert,  editor  for 
Susquehanna  Street  Units;  Brian  IW,  Rippey.  editor 
lor  Airport  Campus;  Lana  M.  Apker,  editor  lor  Unit  6; 
Robert  E.  Thomas,  editor  for  Unit  15.  and  Trudy  M. 
Shively,  editor  for  Satellite  Facilities. 


'Building     project     plans 
on  display  in  Klump 

R>  Hrian  Rippev 

Drawing  of  the  two  new  buildings  now  being  conslrucled  on  Ihe  campus 
arc  on  display  during  Open  House  in  ihc  Klump  Academic  Center  iclciision 
lounec.  accordini!  to  lames  ().  Tulc.  dean  of  secondary  vocaiional  proi^rams 
and  cxccuiivc  assisiani  to  Ihc  prcsidenl. 

"The  loial  job  ol  both  building  projccis  is  one  third  complcic."  Dean 
Tule  said.    "The  projccis  are  right  on  schedule."  he  added. 

The  new  welding  facility,  ai  Susquehanna  and  Wesi  Third  Sirecis.  is 
scheduled  lo  be  compleled  by  Ihe  end  of  lunc.  Dean  Tulc  said.  II  compleied 
on  lime,  he  added,  il  will  be  used  nc\l  fall. 

The  learning  resources  cenicr  and  building  irades  center  are  proiecled  lo 
be  completed  helween  November  and  December  of  this  year,  ihe  dean  said. 
Current  plans  are  lo  open  ihal  building  lor  the  Spring  scmcsier  of  19X1. 

This  is  Stage  I  of  a  projecied  long  range  plan  ihai  will  lurn  the  College  in- 
lo  whai  Dean  Tule  lermed  a  "compleie  walk-around  campus". 

The  learning  resources  cenier.  which  will  house  ihe  College  Booksiorc. 
ihc  library,  and  day  and  night  classrooms,  will  adjoin  Unil  6  and  Ihc  Bardo 
Gym,  Dean  Tule  explained. 

In  considering  ihe  progress  of  Ihe  building  program,  I  he  dean  poinied  oul 
Ihal  inclemcni  wealher  has  noi  been  a  faclor.  On  rainy  or  snowy  days,  he 
noied.  w<irk  is  done  inside  ihe  welding  facility  -  which  now  is  fully  enclosed  - 
while  on  fair  days  work  is  done  on  ihe  learning  resources  cenier. 

I  he  ncxi  siep  will  be  lo  enclose  Ihe  learning  resources  center  so  work  can 
begin  inside.  Dean  Tule  said.  This  should  be  started  soon,  wealher  permitting 
he  indicated. 

When  Slagc  I  is  compleied,  Slage  II  will  be  started  as  the  funds  are 
available.  Ihe  dean  said.  Slage  II  will  include  added  parking  space,  lennis 
couris.  an  athletic  field,  and  sludeni  housing,  according  to  Ihe  long-range 
plans. 

Parking,  which  is  considered  by  some  as  one  of  the  major  problems  of  Ihe 
College,  will  he  expanded  behind  Unil  6  and  near  Ihe  Physical  Plant,  the  dean 
said.  The  Cromar  Building  is  also  scheduled  to  be  demolished  in  order  lo  fur- 
ther add  lo  Ihe  parking  faciliiies  in  that  area,  he  poinied  out. 

The  Communily  Counselin.i{  Service,  a  private  fund-raising  organizaiion, 
has  been  selected  lo  supervise  a  campaign  that  has  set  a  goal  of  $1^7  tnillionjo  . 
help  finance  Slage  II.    The  balance  of  the  needed  S6.2  to  $6.5  million  would 
I  come  from  the  state,  school  districts, and  various  other  grants. 


Refreshments 
available 

A  hospitality  (able  with  punch  and 
cookies  will  be  provided  by  Phi  Beta 
Lambda,  the  business  fraternity  al  Ihe 
College. 

The  club  has  hosted  the  hospiialiiy 
affair  for  six  years  for  Open  House. 
Several  officers,  led  by  Frank  and 
Cathy  Berliih,  will  serve. 


College  Bookstore  open 

The  College  Booksiore  will  be 
open  during  Open  House  from  noon 
uniil  4:30  p.m..  according  to  Robert 
W.  Edlcr,  Booksiore  manager. 

Anyone  interested  in  purchasing 
books  or  other  items  from  the  store 
may  do  so.  he  said. 

The  Booksiore  is  in  Unit  29,  on 
lower  city  campus. 


Cherryl  Lonj;,  a 
Forksville.  works 


V  vocational  program  sign  painting  student  from 
.  sign  lor  class. 


Open  HouM  lidilion     S-3 

Sunday.  March  2.1.  IVMSPOTLICHT 


KIkland.  arc 

■  seirerarial  siienie  slildcnis 

<iperalin|>  Ihc  ()S/6  inliirmaliii 

m  pro- 

k 

•        f^ 

^ 

^^ 

^Bn 

m^ 

W 

i 

» 

d 

Business,  Computer  Science 
personnel  list  activities 


icnce  personnel  arc  planning  a  series  of  nine 
"The  Evolution  ol  the  rypcwritcr"  in 


The  business  and  con- 
dillerent  activities  lor  Open  House. 

There  will  be  a  display  entitled 
Room  302  ol  the  Klump  Academic  Ce 

Demonstrations  will  be  held  on  the  IBM  Word  Processing  equipment  in 
Rooms  304  and  306,  also  in  Klump  Academic  Center. 

Films  on  business  management  and  communications  will  be  shown  at 
\arious  times  ihrouehoiit  the  day  in  Room  .303  ol  Klump  Academic  Center. 

The  newly-purchased  Data  Terminal  Point  ol  Sale  Electronic  Register  will 
be  displayed  by  the  marketing  and  merchandising  program  personnel. 

A  display  ol  income  lax  brochures  and  inlorniaiion  will  be  provided  near 
Room  303. 

On  the  third  lloor  of  Klump  Academic  Center,  loo.  Ihc  business  fraterni- 
ty, Phi  Beta  lambda,  will  be  providing  free  rclreshmcnls. 

Brochures  and  information  about  the  various  business-related  programs 
oflercd  at  the  College  will  be  displayed  at  two  areas  on  the  third  floor  of  the 
Klump  Academic  Center. 

A  demonstration  regarding  the  DEC  minicomputer  with  t  Rf  icrniinals 
will  be  given  in  Room  314  of  the  Klump  Academic  Center. 

A  demonstration  of  the  computer  terminal  linked  to  Lock  Haven  Stale 
College's  computer  will  lake  place  nearby  in  Room  314. 


John  t.  Kiltini;,  a  eompuler  science  scudeni  from  Reedsville.  works 
terminal  in  Ihe  eompuler  science  laboralory. 


A  clerical  studies  student,  Susan  K.  DeVine,  and  a  secretarial  science  student, 
Deborah  I).  Cox.  work  on  memory  typewriters  at  Ihe  College. 


Heavy  construction 
equipment  on  display  |^ 

The  Service  and  Operaiion  ol 
Heavy  Construeiion  Equipmenl  Pro- 
gram provides  Mudcnis  with  ihe  prin- 
ciples of  mainiaininu,  repairing,  an  ' 
operaiinu  many  lypes  ol  construciio 
equipmenl. 

These    siiidenls    arc    planning 
display  ol'  heavy  equipmenl. 

Tt)  be  displayed  are  an  elevalin 
scraper,  an  arlicnlatcd  moior  grader 
and  a  hydraulic  excavator.  These  ar 
In  he  shown  on  ihc  Susquehanna  Rivc 
propcrlv.  illhewcalher  pcrniils, 

I  here  will  he  two  bus  irips  \^^  iln 
displa\  from  ihc  harih  Slicik 
Building. 

riicrc  will  be  a  hvdinsiaiic  Icsi  s, 


up. 


Ihi 


hvdrauhc  icsiii 


equipmciu    and    ihc    laicsi    ivpc 
Indianlic  iraiismissions, 

Iherc  will  also  be  a  slide  prcsi 
lion  III  ihc  work  projccls  shop. 


Students  will  display 
sawmill  equipment 

Forestry  students  in  Ihe  Earth 
Science  Building  have  planned  a 
display  and  explanation  of  new  equip- 
ment.   The  sawmill  also  will  be  open. 

Additions  and  improvements  to 
the  sawmill  include  a  hydraulic  log 
lurncr.  which  improves  safely;  air 
does,   which   hold   ihe   logs  in   pla 


nrks 


vhich 


automatically  set  different  board 
ihicknesses.  and  shadow  lights,  which 
show  exactly  where  the  saw  will  cut.  . 
There  will  be  a  display  on  lumber 
grading.  Grading  depends  on  Ihe 
number  ol  knots  and  splits  in  the 
t^o.iicl.  Cirading  determines  the  worth 
'I  Ihc  lumber. 


Open  House  Edition     S-4 

Sunday.  March  2.1  IVSO.SPOTI.K.HT 

Floral  display 
to  illustrate 
four  seasons 

By  Leslie  Rogers 

The  tloricullure  sludenls  will 
design  a  display  in  Ihe  Klump 
Academic  Cenler  enlitled  "Flowers 
Through  Ihe  Seasons" 

For  Ihe  spring  season.  Ihere  will 
be  a  dogwood  Iree  created  by  glueing 
silk  dogwood  blossoms  lo  Ihe  bran- 
ches There  will  also  be  spring  (lower 
arrangements 


Photos  by  Bob  Allen 


The  summer  season  will  be  il- 
luslraled  by  wedding  llower  designs 
There  will  be  a  mannequin  with  a  wed- 
ding qown  and  llowered  headpiece 
along  with  ditferent  bouquols  and  wed- 
ding corsages 

The  tall  display  will  leature  a  tall 
Iree  created  by  glueing  dried  and  col- 
ored leaves  to  Ihe  branches  There  win 
also  be  tail  tloral  and  loliage  ar- 
rangements 

Christmas  will  be  the  Iheme  ot  the 
winter  display  There  will  be  all  kinds 
01  Christmas  flower  arrangements 
decorations  and  centerpieces 


Ph(i(i>s  by  Boh  Allei] , 


Electronics  lab 
open  for  visits 

Tlic  electronics  laboratories,  in 
Units  2  and  3  on  Susquehanna  Street, 
will  be  open  and  in  operation. 

There  will  be  descripiive  literature 
a\ailablc  in  both  units. 

The  high  school  vocational 
icchnical  sludenls  will  have  projects  set 
up  ID  observe  and  operate.  The  pro- 
jccls  include  a  sign  which  has  numbers 
that  light  in  sequences  trom  one  to  nin 
and  another  which  blinks  on  and  oft'. 

Another  display  has  a  television 
camera  set  up  for  observation. 

In  Lab  5,  Unit  3.  demonstrations 
are  set  up  to  show  how  electrical  equip- 
ment is  used  lo  prove  electrical 
theories.  Included  is  the  operation  of 
an  oscilloscope  and  how  to  measure 
elecirical  energy. 


Fall    splendor    abides 
leaves  and  mellow  color 


Flashin|>  on  and  off.  Ibis  board  lights 
up  numbers  by  sequence. 


Drawings  to  be  shown 

The  Engineering  arid  Design  Divi- 
sion in  Unil  6  will  have  drawing  pro- 
jecis  oui  on  lahles  lor  inspection  dur- 
ing loday's  Open  Housc- 

Sludenls  and  insirueiors  will  be  on 
hand  lo  answer  tiuesiions. 

The  bullclin  board  in  Ihe  draliing 
room  will  be  tilled  with  drawings  by 
draliing  studetiis. 


How  to  make  corsages 

Hi'jh     vvli,.ol     siudeiHs     in 
lieiilMiro  will  li.ne  displ;us  on  en 


Mechanical  drafting 
students  show  work 

Mechanical  drafting  students  will 
display  mechanical  drawings  on  the 
walls  and  bulletin  board  ol  the  drafting 
room  m  Unil  6  during  Open  House.  " 

The  high  school  drafting  class,  in 
conjunction  with  the  Vocational  In- 
dustry Clubs  of  America,  may  have  on 
display  a  sex  equality  poster  which  they 
designed.  If  completed  in  time  for  the 
Open  House,  the  poster  will  be 
displayed  in  Room  143. 

Architectural  Technology 
students  to  show  work 

Architectural  Technology  students 
will  exhibit  in  Unil  6  their  work  con- 
sisting of  models  of  biiildines  and 
drawings. 

A  slide  presentation  will  lal^e  place 
in  Room  109,  of  Unil  6 


Graphic  Arts  open 

The  Graphic  Arts  and 
Sections  on  the  first  floor  of  U 
be  open   lo  visitors  for  inspe 


Phys  Ed  instructors 
to  answer  questions 

Ihe  ihrce  physical  education  in- 
structors at  the  College  will  be 
available  to  answer  questions  lor 
students  and  visitors  lodav. 

Mrs.  Donna  R.  Miller  will  be  in 
Ihe  Clyninastics  Room  to  answer  ques- 
tions about  evmnastics,  voua,  and 
aerobic  dance. 

Hariv  (.  Spcchi  will  be  on  the 
gvin  floor  lo  answer  questions  about 
badminton  and  vollcvball. 

Thomas  M.  Clrav  will  be  in  the 
Uiiivcisal  tlvm  Room  lo  esplaiu  Ihe 
use  ol  Ihe  eiiiiipmeni, 

SME  sells  refreshments 

rhcSocielvol  Maiiutaclurinu.iiid 
l-iiuinecring  (SMll  will  sell  hot  dogs 
and  collee  and  te.i  in  Iroiil  of  Unit'fi 
o  bcuclii  I  lie  siiideiii  organi/a- 


S-5     Open  House  t'.ditiiin 
SI'OTI  K.HT:  Siiniluy.  March  2.1I9H0 

Dental  Clinic 
tours  offered 

The  Dental  Hygiene  students  will 
be  conducting  lours  of  the  Denial 
Hygiene  Clinic  on  the  fourth  Moor  of 
the  Klump  Academic  Center  during  lo- 
day's Open  House. 

Students  will  also  be 
demonstrating  various  procedures  for 
tooth  care. 


'ill  be 


I.     Sludc 
1  hand  to 


Diet  counseling, 
food  sale  planned 
by  F&H  students 

Students  in  ihe  Food  and 
Hospiialily  Program  will  be 
demonstrating  and  selling  a  "Dessert 
Spectacular"  in  Room  105,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  from  I  to  2  p.m.  and 
at  .1  p.m. 

Also  today  during  Open  House, 
dicleiic  students  will  do  diet  counseling 
for  weight  conirol  and  will  answer 
questions  about  different  types  of 
diets. 

Siiidenis  will  also  he  doing  diet 
analysis  anil  will  make  rectimmenda- 
tions  about  how  to  help  prevent  health 
problems. 


Learning  Resources 
Center  open  today 

The  1  earning  Resources  Center 
in  Unit  14,  will  be  open  lodav  lion 
noon  until  4:10  p.m. 

I  lie  center  is  located  wcsiu.iid... 
Wcsi   riiird  Siieei. 


Financial  Aid  Office 
will  he  open 

The  I  tiuiiuuil  Aid  Oltur.  in 
cm  201.  Khnnp  Acadtnnw 
tiler,  will  he  iipcn  lo  all  visiloi'i 
n  iiiimIii  haw  t/ucsfiinis  ahum 
!■  Iinaniial  aid  which  niav  he 
iilahic  III  /inis/inlnr  '.liiilenls. 


Career  Coach 
to  be  displayed 

The  College's  Mobile  Career 
Coach  will  be  displayed  in  front  of  llie 
Klump  Academic  Center  lor  the  pur- 
pose of  cxiiibiting  career  materials  and 
serving  as  an  information  center  for 
Open  House,  according  lo  Lawrence 
W.  Finery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling 
and  career  development, 

Emery  also  said  Ihal  the  Career 
Development  Center,  Room  210, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  will  be  open 
to  visitors  and  will  be  showing  various 
filmslnps  about  various  careers. 


A  base  uni(  displayed  by  Secondary  Vuealional  Teehnicai  <tludenls  of  Elec- 
trical C'onslruclion, 


S-6     Open  House  Edilinn 
SPOTLIGHT:  Sunday.  March  2).l9g0 


WACC  People  in  the  News 


TIIF,  K/KKMKRSKKIKNII 


WACC  Students  Take  Field  Trip  To  Ritter  Farm 


Ih.ii 


ph. 


IlK'  Kill.T  liidm-  Kiiin    111! 

Mumv    «.i^  MMH-(lrc.enllvl>v  ,1         In  l).-ccml«M   ..I   l'l?!l    llii-  liil  I*" 

i; I.. lip   ..I    .inn  huMm•^^   Mudl-lils  l<TMn..vcil  Ihi' djiry  l-i«s  iilli.  j  >l"'l 

lr..m    llii'    Willi.imv|i.irl     Air.i  Mr«   li.irii,  .i   4li  \   2TZ  .Slicii.innii  »"'' 

1  ..iiniiuriiu     1  i.lli-ni-      rlic     12  huililiiiu     ■nu-li.irn.    llliMciiiKhly  !•"  n  ...... 

.lUlllMl-      .11,       llUMlllKTS      Ml       Ih,.  m.,dr,„      IMS     .1    'm.-.M     ..,p.Kll>  -"" hC    SludlMll-.      AllhuUgh  l„ 

''■'"m  '^'''^l''l'''l'V"'^u'l'lll^l'll'l'  m'.'  ,7s,H.'i'-M-'i.'''"i^'.''''i-"i'"',?  il'm;  rfl.il<>dlw<kKi-..uii(ls.  M.im-  Apple  fxpljiiiwl  llial   Ihe  im     l.i'wislmrK 

■'• ■ '•■-  "  '  '' '■.■nli..ill24-Th.  Cltl..n  P,....  W..k  Ending  Jonuory  11    1910       "'  '  """'"•"  ""■■""■"'P  "^  t""-.'         ■t°"ti'- 


..I  Ihe  iljiiA  huMiicss 
rih  "I  Ihi'  r.  I.ihs  .in- 
1  iK'ld  liip>  Hii'ld  liips. 
,  Ihe  uiM'  I"  iIh'  HiltiT 
i-iihlihlrninn    l..r 


S"-'i- Pi 


.ii;n  husini'ss      ii"l-ilJid     Muili-i.K    ,  jn    lulKII 

„,    ,, d  .iniiiulluidl     '"liTn-liip  M'i|uiii-nu-n1s   dl    jnv 

nim.ils     ,iiid     .i^rKllMur '"■   I'"'    <'"    ""'    '«^*l>''   ^'•^'^'^ 

i.iM.iMM     .Sludcnls    .in-    dK..     nidd  H"'  l"Ul  Hi 
i|Uiu-d    I"    l.ike    Kiinhsh 


W.llSulll.f 


:<b^ 


\ppir 


I  hi 


vludi- 


llli- 


I  l.il-  .111(1  ,11  riM'd  .11  Ihi'  llill.-r  i..lill"il  -I 
i.lti  I.MMl  l'.ll'l>  111  llii'  .il  iiiillMllt:  ' 
■II1....M     III   Mil-  i.ilipli-   ..|    hiilll  .     diiiikiiii;  l> 

ii'iil     .11     IIk'    I hi'    .in MM'-       Il 

iMiii'ss  sluili-iiK  li'.iriii-d  .1  trc.il     111 Mil 

Ml    .ili..ill     lis    ..|H-r.il  11.11      Ihi-     llu.. 11-1111 
mil  i«  ..viiinl  .mil  ..|i.-r.ilril  In      lliil  .niK  i 
I    .iiid  Miv  .Inhii  <  llild.K  llilli'i      III'   III    .11 
iiUmii-    H.niii.iilil  r.iiil  Hillil        "iild.ms   ., 
il.iuclili'i      Mis     .I.iiii'I    M.iik       lltllUmU 

''-■-    '"■ -^      •"-"         111,'    Kil 

.M.llill  N. 


WACC  alumna  at 
work  on  governor's 
energy  council 


One  time  students  ol  Ih 
lianisport  Area  Communi' 
lege  can  lie  lound  in  ma' 
nl   hie  and   h<ildiii|<    r 
positions  in  the  bus 

Jill  Munro,  26.  ' 
Harrisburg.    at* 
hamsporl  Are      1 
lege  in  1971 
Business  ' 
Iransfe 
.Slat 
Bar 


^ 


\0 


;n> 


e 


.<^<^' 


^^^  ^*^  -lunro  explai 

^.c^  ,.al    Knergy    ( 

n\  AcI  allows  ft 

mis.  hospitals  at 

imenl  lo  jppiv  fo 

vatinK  fac-ilitics  lo 


3  jBisters  are  WACC  Grads;Find  Good  Jobs^ 


al  situation  occurreff  tail 
n  thret'  sisters  Kradualed 
Wilhamsport  Area  Com- 
|y  follcnc  (WACC)  on  the  same 
the  three,  one  is  now  living 
vk\n9.  in  Wiltiamsport  and  the 
wo  are  working  and  living  m 
«ro 
C  Jacobson.  24.  resitllts  at 
l.yroming  Creek  Road, 
sport  She  is  employed,«s  an 
rer  at  WHAK  AM  radio 
.  Williitmsport 
^Wtfers.  Laurie  21.  and  Kriilt.  30. 
i:rafraaled  with  degrees  in  the  Held* 
uiKxcrutivr  Secretary  and  Medical 
Secrelary.  respectively.  I^aurie  now 
wi»rks  for  Mergenthaler  Mfg  Co  in 
WrMsboru  and  Kristis  is  employed  as 
a  secretary  in  the  lab  at  Soldiers  and 
Satlurs  Memorial  Hoxoital 


Government  Association  (SGAi 
during  the  197H79  term,  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Beta  lambda,  be 
longed  to  the  Communications  Club, 
worked  on  the  Montage  (Ihe  rollege 
yearbook),  served  on  various  ad  hoc 
committees  and  was  a  member  of  the 
inter  Club  Council. 

She  feels  that  the  SGA  was  brought 
to  life  again  during  her  administra 
tion  and  was  turned  into  a  function 
ing  organization  for  the  students  Ms 
Jacobson  says  that  being  president  of 
the  SGA  gave  her  more  self 
conndence  and  prepared  her  for 
dealing  with  people  in  the  work 
world. 

While  ■  college  student,  she 
worked  partUme  at  WNBTAM  radio 
station,  Wellsboro.  on  weekends.  She 
»Ut\  worked  for  the  Slate  during  the 


rand  worked  In  a  lot 
of  different  areas  and  then  dt-cided 
.•the  wanted  to  go  lo  school  so  she 
started  the  .lame  year  I  did.  I<aurie 
was  attending  WACC  and  decided  to 
take  uncKher  year  of  sh'irthand  —  so 
we  all  ended  up  graduating  to- 
gethei 


..<^^- 


Extended  Day  Program  Works 
Weil  at  Williamsport  College 


WACC  requests 
funds  for  ACES 

■C^  According  lo  Dr  Grant  M 
'>i-  t/Berr\  Jr  .  Director  ol  Resource 
'  .^.^^'DrvHlopmeni  al  The  William^ 
;,-  v^c^  pnri  Area  (_ommunit>  College  a 
"  <>^  f  })ii'  jjrnposal  for  the-  Fund  for 
■^  Iniprovemenl  ol  Postsetondary 
"IPSE  I  has  been 
p  funds  uould  help 
[  (.  areer  and  Edu- 
s  '  AtESi  program 


WACC  lo  Hold  Trustee  Ke^     jC 


The  Kxtended  Day  program  at  the 
Wilhamsport  Area  Community  Col 
lege  IS  working  well,  aceording  to 
William  Brarishaw.  Mansfield  DIrec 
tor  of  Postset-iindary  Cooperative 
Kduialion  llradshavi  explains  that 
the  Rxtenrted  Day  program  is  de- 
'signed  basically  for  Ihe  hilltime  em 
^plover  who  is  pursuing  a  degree  or 


field 


8  tiou  has  been 
ould  be  recen 
rind. 


■o^^" 


■Planning  for  the  Eighties"  ii   expected  lo  at' 
Ihetheme  of  the  sixth  annual  Wil        Some  of  '' 
hamsporl   Area  Community  Col-    cussed  du' 
lege  Trustee   Itetreal  to   be  held    are 
this  Friday  and  Saturday  at  the   pos 
Penn  Wells  Hotel  in  Wellsboro 

Dr.  William  Feddersen,  presi 
dent  of  the  college,  the  ealle(« 
deans,  members  of  the  executo^ 
......n...l    from    the    sponsor 

WACC  g«ts  gr' 
f«r  electro      ^ 

Dr  Grant  M 
tor  of  Resourc'  ^^  ^ 
TheWilliamf    ^    ^ 
ily  College 
<».802  g 


.<>*<?■ 


:^* 


N<^ 


» 


vS^o^ft-:*  ."y. 


Through    the    Extended    Day   pro  y^^  ^^^ 
gram,  the   student's  employer  will  j  ^ 
give  him/her  additional  assignments 
which  are  consistent  with  thecoursp 
being  pursued  at  WACC  Thestudenl;^*^)^ 
then    gets    credit    academically 
WACC  for  the  assignment  being  <ione;;7^^;;;;^ 
at  work  Thi       'fk  assignment  is  een  .   nccu 

Students  Take  Farm  Trip 

^■^^        iConlinueri  from  Page  2»» 
^^  Trevose    is   with   the   Soil    Vw 
5  t>"^  servalion  Semce  al  (he  Federal 
<>*;j  Huilding  in  Wilhamsport 

In  most  instances,  the  sludenl 
seU'cIs  his  her  own  place  of  work 
lor  inl<>rnship.  although 
arrangempiUs  can  be  made  by 
insiruclor.  student  or  employer 


I  ACESi: 


As  the  inriuslry  becomes  more 
ct»niplicdled.  the  need  urows  for 
|H-()plt'  uho  are  trained  in  the 
(l.iiry  liusines^  I'rograms  such 
,is  the  one  al  WACC  provide 
many  ttpltons  (or  Ihosc  interested 
m  tlH'  jgrnullure  field,  a  mulli 
Ijcrlcd  iiidustrv 


o!^  . 


(.^  .<^  ■ 


Heavy  Equipment  Program 
Welcomes  Lady  Operators 


lor  Ele       « 

"ded  ' 


^^ 


.  Steve 


•j'-  V>  o'^\: 


:  "'> ^^<5>•  <f 


.c>$>p\o*V°s« 


<''.•>■"'./■■  c     E<l"^i'y  for  women  at  the  work   according  to  Will 
.!,"•  J.     .}?  place  has  begun  lo  creep  onto  the   sistant  professor 
V%'<=™'''"'",';"°"  ^"^  Won'f  n  are  bull-       Stevens  said  this  year's  class  ,s 
f-  / »"         C*H^"  T^  '^""^  o"-^  °f  "-^  la^K"'  ever  with  abou" 

s-^<cSV  ^.'■"^avy  Construction  Equip.  130  students  enrolled  '"  ^'"'"' 
^5<^  *  ment  SerMce  and  Operation  Pro-  And  to  instruct  the  lau-st  class 
.s  ..^..am  „  the  Wilhamsport  Area  the  college  s  board  of  ,l:,?,eeshL 
ty  College  IS  a  perrfect  purchased  two  new  meres  Tf 
j-^..,i,p.e-for  the  first  time  m  its   heavy   equipment    a   hvdrauhc 

fet^ial^'stud^n'J"*"'"    '"^   '"°  tZf::^    T"l'   '"'""    '""    ^ 

The  wom.n    n,i     «.  „  ^yoraulic  track-type  buldozer     and  several 

The  women.  Dale  Marie  Beers  Both    machines    were    purchased    cludmg   Ne 

and    Cheryl  through  grants,  the  college  said        and  Vermor 
.areinlheir       The  Senice  and  Operation  pro 

two-year  program,  gram  (known      "  "  " 


spurt  Tech 


'  cCon 


^.,.  _^   -  of   Campbell,    N  Y 

.-^..iTtnegoal  Paylon.  of  Harrisburg 
or  certificate  first  y 


in  1945  by  the  William 
meal   Institute,  forerj 
present  college  The  program  was 
designed    to   till    the   need    l..r 
skilled  equipment  operators  ann 
mechanics  in  centra]   Penns\l\a 
nia   And  although  at  one  lirr.e  the 
students  came  mostly   from  cen- 
tral Pennsylvania,  they  now  come 
ughout   Pennsylvania 
unding  states  in- 
irk.   .New  Jersey. 


5  SiO)  was  started    classroom  and  workshop  \ 


Dance,  Yoga  among 
Community  Ed 
activities  in  Lair 

A  vancu  ol  displays  and 
demonsiralions  are  planned  lor 
lodav's  Open  House  in  (he  Lair,  siu- 
dcMi  rocrcaiion  building  on  Susquehan- 
na Sircci,  accorduig  lo  Or.  Russell  C. 
Maueh.  dean  tor  communirv  and  con- 

Thosc  participatine  include  l.auri 
Yoeum.  danee  dcmonslralion;  Jerr\ 
Noviello.  upholsicry  display;  Barbara 
Rosi,  Yotia  demonsiralion;  Virginia 
Pekarski.  dcmonsiralions  and  display 
in  knitiing  and  crochet,  and  Rulh 
VanHorn.  display  in  rug  hooking. 

Also.  Sandra  Gray,  children's 
bellydancing  demonsiralion;  Gcrrc 
Wcscoil,  demonsiralion  in  bread  bak- 
ing: Robert  Ciohrs,  photography 
display;  Rulh  Wcilcr,  rug  hooking 
displav.  and  Max  Ameigh.  pottery 
display. 

The  Lair  will  be  open  from  noon 
until  4:30  p.m.  Il  is  Unit  18  on  lower 
city  campus  as  shown  on  the  College 
map. 

Secondary  education 
shops  open  today 

All  17  shops  along  Susquehanna 
Sircci  will  be  open  today  from  noon  lo 
4:30  p.m.,  according  to  William  A. 
Holmes,  director  ol  secondary  educa- 
tion. 

There  will  be  either  displays  or  ex- 
hibits in  Che  shops  and  all  members  of 
ihc  faculty  and  administration  will  be 
available  to  answer  questions. 

Open  House  'special* 
for  broadcasters 

Open  House  Ihis  year  will  be 
"special"  for  the  broadcasling  pro- 
gram. 

The  College  radio  siaiion. 
WWAS,  will  hold  i(s  grand  opening 
celebration  as  pan  of  Ihe  College  Open 
House. 

Bud  Berndl.  former  broadcasling 
inslructor,  and  olher  dignitaries  will  be 
on  hand  for  (he  formalilies. 

The  station,  in  Room  138  of  Unit 
6,  will  be  open  for  lours  and  commen- 
tary will  be  given  throughout  the  day. 
The  station  will  be  on  the  air  from 
noon  to  6  p.m.  al  88.1  on  Ihe  FM  dial. 


Floriculturists 
show  exhibits 

The  I  loTKiiluirc  slinJcMl^urcpl.iil 
MiMy  a  ciunihcr  ol  cshibil^  ni  iho  I  .iiili 
SciciKC  Uuiidiilu.  Ihc  lioiicuhiirc 
promani  involves  lllc  business  ol  urou- 
Inii.  ilcM'JMiM.j.  ami  sellm.j  lloweis  .iiul 
lohaue. 

The  areciihcHise  in  ilic  1  anh 
Seieiue  HiiiUliiii;  «ill  he  open  «iih  uvo 
Ol  IhieesTndenls  on  haiul  lo  leavl  loins. 

Iheie  «ill  he  ililleieiii  crops  on 
displav  -  ineliulinu  roses,  cainalionv 
ami  loniaioes. 

In  ailililion.  talks  ahoni  h.uise 
plain  pinblenis  will  be  presenieil. 

1  amlseape  (Jesn:ii  proieels  will  be 
ilisplaved.  These  will  include  binklinus 
lo  siale  and.  il  vvcalher  pernnis,  a 
vvaieilall. 

Urielv  vvalkvvavs  are  in  ihe  process 
of  benm  bnili.  I  hcsc  will  eveniually 
make  up  a  W'illiainshiiru  uarden. 
Iluie  also  vvill  he  a  nursery  hand  lool 
ili^plav  av  well  as  a  new  tractor  and  a 
loioiiiller. 

Electronic  displays 

Classrooms  for  the  study  of  elec- 
tronics, on  the  first  floor  of  Unit  6,  will 
have  displays  of  proper  lab  set-ups  and 
student  projects  during  today's  Open 
House. 

Students  will  be  working  in  the  lab 
so  that  visitors  can  observe  lab  pro- 
cedures and  Ihc  types  of  projects  which 
electronics  students  undenakc. 

There  may  be  demonstrations  of 
more  sophisticated  electrical  projects 
taking  place  also. 


Open  House  Hdliinn     S-7 

Sunday.  March  2.1.  ItHO.SPOTI.IdHT 


Journalism,  radio 
offices  open  today 

Students  and  visiiors  interested  in 
the  journalism  and  broadcasling  cur- 
ricula may  visit  the  lournalism  Office, 
in  Room  7,  basement,  Klunip 
Academic  Center,  and  Ihe  siiideni- 
opcraicd  radio  station,  WWAS.  in 
Room  138,  in  Unit  6. 

The  journalism  students  will 
dcmoitsiraie  machines  and  techniques 
related  to  prodiictittn  of  a  newspaper. 
The  broadcasting  siudcnls  will 
dcmonsiraic  Ihc  operation  ol  a  radio 


fl 

i 

^*^I>w 

^^Htekjupp^ 

-a 

Working  in  Ihe  Secondarj  Vocational  Program,  small  engine  repair,  freip  lefl. 
are  Scoll  Sampsell.  Montgomery  School  District;  Rod  Winder,  Montfi«mery 
School  District,  and  Mike  Conway.  Lock  Haven  School  District.        .- 


A  viation  projects 
displayed  at  airport 

Student  proiccts  are  on  display  to- 
day at  the  College  aviation  hangar  ai 
the  Lvcoming  County  Airport  al  Mon- 
toursvillc.  according  lo  Robert  L.  Nor- 
ton, posisecondary  instructor  of  avia- 
I  ion . 

Also  on  display  are  the  two  air- 
craft owned  by  the  College:  A  Convair 
and  a  lightweight  Cessna  model. 

The  student  displays  consist  of 
engines,  sheet  metal,  fabric,  cable,  and 
welding  proiccts.  Norton  said. 

A  hclicopier  will  also  be  shown,  he 
added. 

These  projects  will  be  explained  by 
Norton  and  two  other  aviation  instruc- 
tors. James  A.  Garland  and  James  F. 
Docbler. 


Transportation\ 
shops  open  toe 

All  the  labs  in  ih^A^ialion, 
automotive,  auto  body  flH  diesel 
shops  "  located  along  S^Behanna 
Street  -  will  be  open  to  vi^H;  today 
during  Open  House,  at^Hing  lo 
Martin  M.  Roush.  ira^Brtatit 
technology  division  directo 

He  added  that  some^H  equip- 
ment wiU  be  connected  to  ^^Bes  and 
will  be  in  operation. 

All     faculty     membel 

available  to  answer  qucst^^^nd  to 
conduct  tours. 


Today  ^s  hfours 

The  hours  for  Open  House  todav 
are: 

The  cafeteria  will  be  open  from  1 1 
a  m.  to  4:30  p.m. 

The  Earth  SciepcB^  Campus 
buildings  will  be  open  frojti  II  a.ni  to 
4  30  p.m. 

The  aviation  facilities  will  be  open 
Irom  1 1  a.m.  lo  4:30  p.m. 

The  Klump  Academic  Center  and 
other  (.ily  tampiis  buildings  will  he 
open  Irom  noon  to  4:30  p.m. 


vWS!:S51S3SS**v    1  <*'<* -ftS^x  *^5*S««BivWSSSSSliSW.^^iMS*--\8fc 


S-8     f^P'"  """'!■  f'''""      WILLI AMSPORT-LYCOMtNG 
SPOTIIOHT.  Sunday.  March  2J.  1910       ^.^^^^^  AIRPORT 


ALLENWOOO 


How  to  Get  There  from  Here 


HERMAN  T.  SCHNEEBELI  BUILDING, 
EARTH  SCIENCE  CAMPUS 


(NOTE  THAT  MAP  HAS  SOUTH  AT  THE  TOP,  PRESUMING  VIEWER  IS  STANDING  IN  THE  FOYER 
OF  KLUMP  ACADEMIC  CENTER.) 

To  get  to  Williamsport  Area  Community  College  facilities  at  the  Lycoming  County  Airport 
(Montoursville):  Go  east  on  West  Third  SIfeet,  through  Market  Square,  continue  along  the  commer- 
cialized "Golden  Strip"  (which  is  actually  Route  220  and  Third  Street),  stay  in  the  right-hand  lane  of 
Route  220  (which  is  the  same  as  Third  Street)  as  you  pass  over  the  small  hill  known  as  Sand  Hill  on 
the  approach  to  Montoursville.  cross  the  so-called  "Old  Montoursville  Bridge"  (do  NOT  take  the  four- 
lane)  and  thus  enter  Montoursville  At  the  first  traffic  light  in  Montoursville.  turn  right  and  simply 
follow  the  street  to  the  airport 

To  get  the  Williamsport  Area  Community  College  facilities  "over  the  mountain"  at  Allen- 
wood:  Go  east  on  West  Third  Street  to  Market  Square,  turn  right  to  pick  up  Route  1  5-South.  con- 
tinue on  Route  1  5-South.  going  "over  the  mountain"  (Montgomery  Pike)  After  passing  traffic  light 
on  descent  side,  begin  to  watch  tor  signs  on  nghl-hand  side  of  road  (Road  to  Earth  Science  Cam- 
pus IS  to  the  riqhl  and  is  same  road  used  to  reach  the  Allenwood  prison        


CAMPUS  MAP 


Elactricat  Buildtng 
EleciiiCdl  Technoloyv 


Aic'liit»c 

u.dl  Technology 

Ei'otxlcs 

ling 

Elettrom 

s  Tfichnologv 

Eng.nee. 

ly  0(j(iingTech 

Giaphic  Afis 

Mochsni 

al  OFdUmg 

Pr.iiiinO 

Terhniral  IHustiatton 

Scienr«  LaboraIo^le^ 

Presiden 

sOtfice 

Commun 

tyRehttons 

lai  Reseaich 

IntoFftal  ConimuniCdlions 

Pesou'Ce 

Development  OK 

DnpiHalinoeMa.lSp-..c 
YEfr' 
WACCHengarsi  AirpQ 


Markeiing/Metchandising 
Mathematics 

Maliieniatics  English  Labor; 
OpGialing  Room  Technician 


Computei  Cenlei 


Noiarv  Publir. 
Placemen! 

Postsecondary  Coop«?ia 
Student  Records 
Setufiiy  tPaiking,  Lost 
Spotligtii 


Lewis  Bardo  < 
Physical  Educc 
Media  Centei 


Studeni-Faniliv  Ceniei 
Cromar  Building 
Carpentry 
Carpentry  b  Building 

Constfuciion  Techno'ogy 
Civil  Engirieeiing  Technoloyy 
Plumbing 


Oean.  Secondary  Vocaiiuna 
George  Parkes  Building 
AuioBcxJv  Rtpaii 


^rogra 


World  of  Work 

liorld  of  Work  k  u  miliar  fcuime  of  The  SPOTLIGHT,  in 
cooperaiiiiii  wilh  llie  Colleae  Plaiemeni  O/Tue.  hiformaiioii  n  siiii/ilicrl 
(lirecily  hy  the  Placcineni  Olfice.  Im/iiirici  tihimi  ilie  Ii^iiiik<.  shoiikl  he 
(tinrmi  lo  /tcrsons  or  iclc/)hoiic  niiinher\  liMal  or  lo  ilw  Plmciifciii  Ol- 
fice. 

CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 
Aviation  -  Allied  Hclitopier  Service  Inc..  P.O.  Bom  6216.  Tulsa,  Okla, 
74106.    Send  resume  to  Os\iI  York,  vice  president. 

Managemenl  -  Valley  Harms  Dairy,  I860  Ease  Third  Si.,  Williamspori, 

Pa.  17701.  Send  resume  lo  Gene  Rcidy,  personnel  manager.   Phone  326-2021 . 

Arehileclural.  Mechanical,  and   EnKineerin);   Draflsmen  ■-  Garlei   Co. 

(Division  ol  Union  Corp.),  Old  Foruc,  Pa.  IK.SLS    Send  resume  to  Ed  Manar- 

ski.    Phone  717-457.7425. 

Computer  ProKrammer  -  Freuhauf  Corp.,  P.  O.  Box  110.  Middlekmii. 
Pa.  17057,  Send  resume  lo  Slephcn  Horncv.  Phone  7I7-944-749I  E\l  HI 
1.12,  oi  m. 

Welders  -  Immediate  opcnini;.  ACF  Industries  Inc.,  (AMCAR  Division) 
Mihon,  Pa.  I7H47.    Call  colled:  717-742-7601 . 

EPN's   -  1 1  p.m.  to  7  a.m.  shift.    Contact  Mrs.  Stroble,  .123-3758. 
Radiiil(>|!>  Technician  -  Lewistown  Hospital,  Lewistown,  Pa.   17044 
Send  resume  lo  personnel  dcpartmcnl  or  call  collect,  717-242-1021. 

Dental  llyKienisI  -  Work  in  periodontal  practice.  Send  resume  to 
Williamspori  Periodontal  Associates,  Suite  404,  460  Market  Si  , 
Williamspori,  Pa.  17701.    Apply  Gail  Holmes,  ollicc  manager. 

(graphic  Arts  Camera  Pressman  and  Stripper  -  Columbia  Graphic  R  D 
5,  Bloomsburg,  Pa.  17815.  Apply  Carol  Gilotti,  personnel  manager  Call 
717-784-2716. 

Plant  Accountant  -  D-M-E  Company,  P.  O.  Box  F,  Youngwood,  Pa 
15697.    Send  resume  attention  of  Russ  Yaguinto. 

Cost  Accountant  -  Degree  required.  Send  resume  to  Box  Z-16,  Sun- 
Gazette,  Williamspori,  Pa.  17701. 

Junior  Product  Manauer  -  Central  Pa.  corporalion  to  support  supply 
division  marketing  operations.  Send  particulars  to  Box  Z-25.  Sun-Ga/ctie. 
Williamspori,  Pa.  17701. 

PART-TIME  JOBS 
Barmaids,  Bartenders.  Waitresses,  Waiters,  and  Disc  Jockey    -  No  ex 
periencc  necessary.  Apply  in  person.  Gentlemen  111  Loum>e,  750  West  Fourth 
Si.,  alter  7  p.m. 

Auditor  -  Full  or  part-lime  night  work.  Bookkeeping  background  need- 
ed.   Apply  to  Box  Z-12,  Sun-Ga/etie,  Williamspori,  Pa.  17701.' 

Snack  Bar  Person  -  Great  Skate,  Montoursville.  Apply  in  person 
Wednesday  or  Thursday  between  7  and  9  p.m. 

l.PN  --  Apply  at  Broad  Acres  Nursing  Home  Association,  R  D  3 
Wellsboro.  Pa. 

Cook  -  7  a.m.  to  2  p.m.,  live  days  per  week.  AppK  lo  Mr,  I  ailibuix, 
Holiday  Inn,  Williamspori. 

Hostess  -  Apply  to  Mr.  l.athbury.  Holiday  Inn,  Williamspori. 
Sales  Clerk  -   Dav  and  evcninu  hours.     Phone  Musselman    Icwclcrs 
546-5688,  lor  appoinlmeni. 

Bookkeeper  -  Will  train.  Phtmc  Musselman  Icwelcrs,  546-5688,  for  ap- 
pointment. 

Postal  Sorters  -  Monday  through  Friday,  4  a.m.  to  8  a.m.  $6.64  per 
hour.  Must  be  a  college  student  living  in  Danville.  Sunbury.  Selinsgrovc  area. 
Apply  to  State  Employment  OITicc,  Sunburv,  Pa.,  or  call  717-286-8548. 
ON-CAMPIIS  RECRUITING 
Today  -•  Boise  Cascade.  Allcntown,  will  interview  for  machinisis  and 
toolmakers.  Group  meeting  at  10  a.m.  m  the  Klump  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Tomorrow  -  K-Marl  recruiter  will  inlervicw  for  management  trainees. 
Group  meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  the  Klump  Acadetnic  Center  Auditorium. 

Wednesday  -  C.  E.  Air  Preheat,  Wcllsville,  N.Y.,  will  inicr\icw  lot 
mechanical  and  engineering  drafispcrsons.  Group  meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Thursda.v  -  Valley  Design,  Johnson  City,  N.Y.,  will  interview  for 
mechanical  and  engineering  drafispcrsons  and  graphic  arts  students.  Group 
meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  Ihe  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Friday  -  Borg  Warner,  York,  will  inlervicw  for  welders  and  machinists. 


up  meciii 


i,m,  in  the  Klump  Academic  C  enter  Auditor 


College-focus  of  videotapes 


The  College  is  one  of  the  subjects 
of  a  series  of  career-related  video  pro- 
grams, according  to  A.  Neale  Winner, 
coordinator  of  media  production  and 
instructional  technology. 

According  to  Winner,  two  Milton 
High  School  instructors  will  be 
videotaping  a  number  of  programs  at 
Ihe  College.  The  programs  will  be  used 
lo  enhance  the  career  development 
center  at  the  high  school.  The  pro- 
grams will  show  what  the  College  is 
like  and  what  it  has  to  offer,  said  Win- 
ner. 

The  director  of  the  project  is  Dale 
C.  Cochran,  a  counselor  at  the  high 
school.  Involved  in  the  taping  are  A. 
Thomas  Hands,  and  electrical  insiruc- 


lor,  and  Robert  G.  Bailey,  a  drafting 
instructor.  Winner  said  Bailey  is  a 
graduate  of  Ihe  Williamspori  Technical 
Insiitute  and  did  his  practice  teaching 
here. 

Areas  of  Ihe  College  which  have 
been,  and  are  planned  lo  be  filmed  are, 
according  lo  Winner,  draliing  elec- 
tronics, adveriising  an,  and  archiicc- 
lure.  Also  journalism,  business  and 
computer  science,  graphic  arts,  and 
welding. 

According  to  Bailey,  this  will  be 
the  only  college  filmed.  Industries 
filmed  so  far  are  Agway,  Yorktown 
Kitchen,  and  four  areas  of  Ceisingcr 
Medical  Cenier. 


SPOTLIGHT  5 

Monday    March  24     1980 


The  WACC  Cinema  Club  presents... 

Tonight! 

7:30  p. m, 
Klump  Academic  Center 

Admission:  $1.00 


The  terrifyinii  motion  picture 
from  the  terrifi/ing  No.  I  best  seller. 

MMS 


Amity  Island  had  everything. 

Clear  skies. 

Gentle  surf. 

Warmjvater. 

People  flocked  there 

every  summer. 

It  was  the  perfect  feeding  ground. 


^^\ 


"One  of  the  most  thrilling 
adventure  movies  ever  made/ 

Gene  Shalit.  NBC  TV 

In  Cinemascope 


a 


"""NEXT  WEEK 

Woodstock 


ooouooooo 


jy 


Starring... 

Jimi  Hendrix  -  Crosby,  Stills,  and  Nash 

and  many  others! 


Monday.  March  2i.  1980 

Northampton 
wins  tourney, 
College  sixth 

Thetwo  volleyball  learns  represen- 
ting Ihe  .^ollege  finished  in  sixth  and 
seventh  place  in  last  Wednesday's  I9lh 
Annual  feastern  Athletic  Conference 
volleyball  tournament.  One  team 
recorded  13-1 1  record  while  Ihe  other 
compileda  9-15  mark. 

Noi*amplon  County  Community 
College  traced  first  with  a  21-J  record. 
They  downed  a  team  from  Mon- 
tgomery County  Community  College 
two  out  of  three  to  lake  Ihe  title  in  the 
final  round.  The  second  place  Mon- 
tgomery squad  was  20-4. 

Each  college  had  two  teams.  The 
other  Northampton  squad  finished 
third  at  18-5.  Montgomery  was  fourth 
with  a  15-9  mark  followed  by  Luzerne 
County  Community  College  which  was 
14-9. 

Players  for  Ihe  sixth  place  College 
team  were  Cathy  J.  Leil?el.  Sallie  A. 
Crane,  Janet  DodI,  Jacquclyn  D. 
Spaide.  Dale  R.  Wehingcr.  Timothy  H. 
Weiler.  Timothy  A.  Klym,  Ray  Moyer, 
and  Francis  F.  McMahon. 

Participating  for  the  seventh  place 
squad  were  Sicphani  A.  Spaar,  Cheryl 
A.  Moore,  Barbara  A.  Barto,  Paul  K. 
Liningcr,  Kaihleen  Burinski,  Timothy 
G.  Hoover,  Robert  B.  Eshleman, 
Frank  D.  Brouse,  Richard  W. 
Reinharl,  and  Richard  A.  Whiimcr. 

Bucks   County   Community   Col- 
lege  followed   with   a   4-20   record. 
Luzerne  finished  ninth  at  3-21   while 
Bucks  placed  lOlh  with  a  2-22  mark. 

Trophies  were  awarded  to  the  top 
two  teams  at  a  dinner  which  followed 
the  tournament.  The  dinner  was 
prepared  by  food  and  hospitality 
students. 

Harry  C.  Spccht,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  physical  education,  extended 
his  thanks  to  the  officials  from  Lock 
Haven  State  College  by  commenting 
that  Ihcy  did  a  "fine  job". 

Clubs  to  supervise 
weekend  open  gym 

The  Bardo  Gym  has  been  opened 
on  weekends  by  the  Interclub  Council. 
Thomas  A.  Bythell,  forestry  student, 
said  the  first  weekend,  March  15  and 
16,  was  successful. 

Each  club  active  in  Interclub 
Council  has  been  asked  to  supervise  ac- 
tivities in  the  gym  on  a  cooperative 
basis.  Last  weekend.  Gamma  Epsilon 
Tau  was  to  have  been  in  charge  of  Ihe 
gym. 

No  club  has  committed  itself  to 
supervise  Ihe  gym  for  this  weekend,  ac- 
cording to  the  Council's  schedule. 

Each  club  may  select  Ihe  hours  it 
wants  Ihe  gym  to  be  open,  Bythell  said. 
College  Security  must  he  notified  in 
advance  aboul  Ihc  hours,  Bvlhell  add- 
ed. 


c&  c 

Subs 

247  Campbell  St. 

326-6966 


I  Forestry  Club  plans 
Woodsmen  Event 

The  Forest  Technology  Club  will  be  holding  its  annual 
Woodsmen  Event  on  Saturday.  April  19  and  Sunday.  April  20,  ac 
cording  to  Richard  A.  Reasinger.  student  president  of  Ihe  club 

Reasinger.  a  second-year  forestry  technology  student  from 
DuBois.  said  Ihc  event  is  open  to  all  students,  faculty,  staff,  and 
anyone  interested  in  cheering  the  College  team  on. 

The  event  is  to  be  held  on  the  Earth  Science  Campus  at  Allen 
wood . 

Students  permitted  to  enter  the  contest  are  those  who  are  in 
first  or  second  year  forestry.  Those  who  enter  must  register  and 
participate  in  at  least  two  events,  Reasinger  noted. 

Reasinger  said  four  colleges  from  out  of  state  are  invited  as 
well  as  are  colleges  in  Pennsylvania. 

The  colleges   invited   are  Glenville   State  College,   of  West 

Virginia;  Dabncy  S.  Lancaster  Community  College,  of  Virginia 

Paul  Smiths  College,  of  New  York;  Allegheny  Community  College 

J;         of  Maryland,  and  Ihe  Mont  Alio  campus  of  Penn  Slate  University 

All  visiting  students  will  be  lodged  in  the  Bardo  Gym.  Reas 
inger  said  the  events  should  begin  at  9  a.m.  Saturday. 

There  is  a  $50  entry  fee  for  all  participating  teams. 

There  are  14  events.  Some  of  the  events  are:  The  chain  throw 
log  roll,  cross-cut  sawing,  and  chainsawing.  Individual  and  team 
trophies  will  be  presented  to  the  winners,  Reasinger  said. 

He  added  thai  refreshments  will  be  sold  throughout  the  con 
I        tesL 

Penn  State       Winter  makes 


sets  tourney 
for  veterans 

A  Softball  lournamenc  for  miliiary 
veterans  will  be  held  at  Penn  State 
Saturday  and  Sunday.  April  25  and  26. 
The  tournament  will  be  sponsored  by 
the  Penn  Stale  University  Veterans 
Organization,  PSUVO.  said  Mr.  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiolti.  student  activities 
assistant. 

The  tournament  will  be  double- 
ehmination  with  the  top  three  teams 
receiving  trophies,  according  to 
Donald  C.  Woods.  PSUVO  athletic 
director. 

Friday,  April  24,  a  happy  hour  for 
the  players  will  be  held  at  4  p.m.  A 
manager's  meeting  is  scheduled  for  9 
p.m. 

The  PSUVO  will  also  hold  the 
first  annual  Jack  Swordes  Golf  Tour- 
nament Thursday,  May  3  at  the  PSU 
Blue  Golf  Course. 

Any  interested  veterans  may  con- 
tact Mrs.  Fremiotti  in  Room  136, 
Klump  Academic  Center,  for  furlherr 
details. 

The  youngest  major  league  player  of  all 
time  was  the  Cincinnati  pitcher,  Joe 
Nuxhall,  who  started  his  career  in  June. 
1944,  aged  15 years,  lOmonths,  11  days. 


last  effort 

By  Lana  Apker 

or  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

After  a  long,  cold,  snowless 
winter,  it  seemed  as  if  spring  were 
finally  on  its  way. 

But  Old  Man  Winter  wasn't  quite 
ready  to  give  up,  however,  as  he  prov- 
ed last  Thursday,  March  13  —  exactly 
one  week  before  the  official  beginning 
of  spring. 

The  snow  fell  heavily  throughout 
the  day,  accumulating  to  aboul  five  in- 
ches by  early  afternoon  and  causing 
College  officials  to  "close"  the  college 
ai  3  p.m.  and  to  cancel  evening  classes. 

Despite  the  continuing  snowfall, 
some  30  to  40  persons  remained  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center,  a  4  p.m. 
walk  revealed.  These  diehards  were 
nonchalantly  going  about  their  work, 
seemingly  oblivious  to  the  falling  snow 
outside. 

The  largest  groups  of  people  were 
in  (he  computer  science  lab  and 
business  machines  rooms.  A  place- 
ment lest  for  which  only  aboul  12  in- 
dividuals showed  was  taking  place  in 
Room  204. 

And  in  The  SPOTLIGHT  office, 
journalism  students  worked  to  com- 
plete the  week's  issue  of  the 
newspaper. 


Easter  craft  meeting 
termed  a  success, 
officers  elected 

■■We  had  a  fantastic  turnout  with 
our  Easter  Crafts  meeting,"  said  Mrs. 
Jan  M.  Newton,  president  of  WACC 
Women.  "It  was  one  of  our  largest 
turnouts,  with  24  members  attending.'* 
she  added. 

The  meeting  was  held  last 
Wednesday  in  the  Creative  Crafts 
Shop,  DuBoistown,  and  was  ■■enjoyed 
by  everyone",  she  said. 

After  Ihe  meeting,  officers  were 
elected  for  the  1980-1981  year,  she 
reported. 

Those  elected  are  Mrs.  Newton, 
president;  Lillian  Parish,  vice  presi- 
dent; Ruth  Kissell.  secretary,  and 
Janice  Fox,  treasurer. 

Also,  Roberta  Feddersen,  pro- 
gram chairman;  Donna  Neibert,  social 
chairman,  and  Nancy  Holmes, 
membership  chairman. 

'Husbands'  Night' 
planned  by  women 

A  dinner  will  highlight 
■■Husbands'  Night"  which  is  planned 
by  the  WACC  Women  for  Saturday. 
April  19,  at  6:15  p.m.,  according  to 
Mrs.  Jan  M.  Newton,  president  of  the 
organization. 

The  dinner  will  be  held  in  the 
Antlers  Country  Club.  Williamsport 
RD  2,  she  said. 

■■The  cost  of  the  dinner  is  $7.60 
per  person,  including  tax  and  tips," 
she  said.  The  members  are  also  plann- 
ing to  distribute  door  prizes,  she  said. 

Those  interested  in  attending  may 
call  Ruth  Kissell  at  433-4584  to  make 
reservations,  the  president  said. 

'Rollerskating  Bus' 
rolls  at  7:30  Tuesday 

A  rollerskaling  party  will  be  held 
tomorrow  at  SKaieland  U.S.A.,  Route 
15,  from  8  to  II  p.m.  A  bus  will  be 
available  for  free  transportation  for 
students  of  the  College,  according  to 
James  A.  Br^an,  ACT-IOl  counselor. 

The  bus  will  depart  from  Bardo 
Gym  a(  7:30  p.m.,  Bryan  said.  It  will 
return  after  the  parly. 

Admission  is  free,  Bryan  said.  A 
fee  of  75  cents  will  be  charged  to  those 
renling  skates,  ne  said. 

The  skating  parly  is  one  of  a  few 
social  evenls  sponsored  by  ACT-IOl, 
he  noted.  "Anyone  interested  is 
welcome,"  he  said. 

'x:;w:at 
o\mi:hk:ans 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL  50  CENTS 

per  game  during  open  bowling  hours 

10  am   to  5  p  m   daily;  Evenings  M-W-Th 
8pm   to  1 1 ;  FrSat-Sun  10  am.  to  12  p.m 

YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 


Ph.   326-4197   or   388-2284   1301    High   St.  Wmspt.,P8.17701 


lUoOOv 
UJsddOs 


SPOTLIGHT 
Monday   March  24 


7 

1980 


Jeanette 

How  can  I  say  this 

but  with  the  usual  words 

I  love  you 

You  understand  my  mind 
cradled  my  heart 
gave  me  some  confidence 
when  others  thought  I  failed 


Taught  me  what  love  is 
helped  me  thru  hurt 
thank  you  for  the  faith 
sorry  for  the  heartache 

Thank  you  for  everything 
my  beautiful  woman 
you  're  the  Inspiration  of  my  life 
and  you  were  the  start 

--Louis  James 
(Thanks,  Mom) 


lllif-iniicd  In-  Mike  Ickiics 


8  SPOTLIGHT 

Monday   March  24    1980 


Gowns 

Spring  Dresses 
Sundresses 

by  Jessica  Gunne  Sax 

QUE  pasa 

BOUTfQUEl 

Fourth  and  William  Sts. 


Play 

lucky  lumbers 


Cillo's 
College 
Corner 


Hl^... 

Whole  Siih  &  Med.  Drink 

(Drawing  on  Friday) 

SPECIAL 

Whola  Turkey  Sub 


$2.25 


ce  $2  50  ••  Save  25c 
Tax  Included 


r^    What?  Saint  Patrick       "^ 
I         was  an  Englishman  i 

L—   and  not  an  Irishman!?  ^ 


B>  i.ana  M.  Apker 

Of  IhiSIMXrK.HT  SliK 

The  lirM  Si.  Painck's  Day  parade 
was  held  in  1762  in  New  York  Cily 
--  nol  in  Ireland,  according  lo 
James  t.  Logue.  associaie  professor  ol 
Inglish. 

Logue.  of  Irish  heritage,  also 
said  ihai  Si.  Patrick's  Day  parades 
were  noncxisieni  in  Ireland  unlil  Ihc 
lasi  five  years  or  so.  The  mcrchanis  ot 
Dublin  now  sponsor  a  St.  Patrick's 
Day  parade  lo  cnieriain  Ihc  Irish- 
American  loursits  who  flock  there 
looking  for  the  iiliimaic  in  Irish 
celebrations. 

In  Ireland,  however.  St.  Patrick's 
[Jay  is  celebrated  primarily  as  a 
religious  holiday. 

Commercialism  has  hit  St. 
Patrick's  Day  in  America.  For  those 
with  any  doubts  about  that:  Take  a 
look  in  the  local  card  shops. 
Thousands  of  St.  Patrick's  Day  cards 
and  party  favors  are  sold  each  year. 
Buttons  bearing  slogans  such  as  "Kiss 
Me,  I'm  Irish"  arc  worn  by  many... 
department  stores  everywhere  hold 
special  .ales...  taverns  offer  green  beer, 
usually  at  special  rates. 

He  was  Knglixh? 

Well,  we  all  know  that  St.  Patrick 
was  an  "Irish  saint",  but  how  many 
know  that  he  was  an  Englishman?  He 
was  born  in  389  AD.  near  Severn, 
England. 

He  became  associated  with  Ireland 
as  a  young  lad  when  he  was  taken 
prisoner  by  King  Niall  of  Ireland,   The 


king  then  put  Patrick  to  work  tendin.i! 
pigs  and  sheep  on  the  green  slopes  of 
Ireland. 

Patrick  never  gave  up  hope  of 
escape,  however,  and  when  he  was  21 
years  ol  age,  he  managed  to  flee 
Ireland  on  a  cargo  ship  carrying  Irish 
Wolfhounds. 

Became  a  saini 

Alter  becoming  a  missionary  and 
a  bishop  -  he  was  then  about  45  years 
old  -■  Patrick  returned  to  Ireland  for 
the  purpose  of  converting  the  Irish  to 
Christianity.  He  succeeded  in  this  mis- 
sion where  others  before  him  had  fail- 
ed. Kor  this  accomplishment,  he  was 
cannoni/'ed  a  saint. 

The  most  popular  story  about  St. 
Patrick  had  a  Nordic  origin,  nol  an 
Irish  one.  This  story  tells  us  that  St. 
Patrick  banished  all  snakes  from 
Ireland  forever. 

There's  one  problem  with  the 
validity  of  this  story,  however.  There 
were  NEVER  any  snakes  in  Ireland! 

The  Norse  word  for  toad  is 
"paud"  and  upon  arriving  in  Ireland, 
the  Norse  noticed  ihe  absence  of  loads 
and  snakes.  When  they  heard  of  this 
saint  called  "Paudrig",  they  assumed 
his  name  meant  "toad-expeller". 
Ah.  Ihe  'Wee  Psopte' 

When  we  celebrate  St.  Patrick's 
Day,  we  immediately  associate  large 
green  shamrocks  and  the  "Wee  Peo- 
ple" with  Ihe  Irish.  The  Irish  have  a 
vast  store  of  legends  and  folklore  in 
which  leprechauns  play  a  major  role. 
Given  names  and  personalities, 
leprechauns  have  a  tangibility  unlike 
Ihe  fairies  of  other  countries. 

Leprechauns  are  wee,  liny, 
solitary  beings,  small  enough  to  hold  in 
your  fist!  Their  trade  is  making  shoes 
for  all  the  fairies;  they  work  very 
hard.  Leprechauns  also  build  and  hide 
crocks  full  of  gold.  If  you  happen  to 
capture  a  leprechaun  -  not  an  easy 
task!  -  you  can  force  him  to  reveal  Ihe 
location  of  his  gold.  That  is:  If  he 
doesn't  get  away  first! 

Leprechauns  are  wily  little 
fellows.  If  captured,  they  will  use  elo- 
quent words,  politeness,  compliments 
and  cunning  lo  put  their  captor  off  his 
guard  and  make  their  escape.  And 
they  seem  to  vanish  in  a  flash! 

Very  seldom  caught,  leprechauns 
always  manage  to  escape  bv  their  wit 
alone.  They  think  men  are  foots  and 
thai  it  is  a  disgrace  to  be  caught. 

Leprechauns  usually  wear  Ihree- 
corncrcd  hats  and  ofien  smoke  pipes. 
Tlicir  green  altire  heller  enables  Ihem 
to  blend  with  the  grass  as  they,  chuckl- 
ing, make  their  escape. 

Tot  Watch  offering 
special  'Dollar  Night' 

■liil  W.ikh  Doll.M  NiL'ln'  ^^.l^ 
siiiilcd  last  M,.iul.i\.  M.iuh  17.  ;u\.'i 
diil'j  I..  1)1     KiismII  I     MaiKh,  ili.iH  l..i 


BULLETIN 
BOARD 

Slage  Show 

Variety  show,  8  p.m..  Thursday. 
Klump  Academic  Center  Audilorium. 

Rollerskuting 
Rollerskaling    party.    8    to    I  i    p.m.. 
tomorro'w.    Skaieland    U.S.A.       Bus 
leaves  Bardo  Gym  at  7:30  p.m. 

Enerfiy  Forum 
Energy  Forum.  7:30  p.m..  Thursday. 
Lycoming  College. 

Bake  Sale 
Sponsored   by   computer   science   and 
computer    operators.     Wednesday. 
Klump  Academic  Center  Lobby. 

Meeting 
Student    Government    Association,    4 
p.m.,   tomorrow.   Room    132,   Klump 
Academic  Center. 

Food  service  students 
graduation  reception 

Food  service  studenis  catered  a 
reception  lor  graduating  nursing 
students  on  Lriday,  March  14.  follow- 
ing the  graduation  ceremony  for  the 
nursing  students. 

The  reception  was  supervised  by 
Tammy  S.  Shaffer  and  Amy  K.  Smeal, 
food  service  studenis.  It  was  held  in 
the  cafeteria  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center.    Aboul  250  persons  attended. 

Business  fraternity 
members  attend 
state  conference 

Thirty-seven  members  of  Phi  Beta 
Lambda  (PEL),  business  Iraiernity,  at- 
tended a  stale  leadership  conference 
this  past  weekend  in  the  Pittsburgh 
Airport  Holiday  Inn. 

The  College's  chapter  was  the 
largest  delegation  represented  at  the 
contcrence. 

or  the  37  who  attended.  31  par- 
ticipated in  competitive  events  at  the 
contcrence.  The  22  categories  of 
events  included  shorlhand,  lyping,  ac- 
counting and  markeling  compelitions. 

Andrew  W.  Wcnu  and  David  E. 
Ricker  ran  for  stale  oflices.  Went?  was 
seeking  the  office  of  state  president 
and  Ricker  was  seeking  the  office  of 
slate  treasurer. 

Results  of  the  election  were  not 
available  at  SPOTI  ICiHT  deadline. 

Frank  Ruganixirovc  a  shuttlecock  79 
feet  8'/2  inches  in  tests  at  San  Jose, 
California,  on  February  29,  1964. 

FOR  SALE:  1966  IVIustang  Classic.  289  V8 
engine,  automatic  power  steering,  wooden 
steering  wtieel.  pistol  grip  door  handles,  pony 
seat  covers  and  mats.  II  interested,  call 
322-3405.  alter  5  p.m.    ]  Adver1tsement| 


Iht 


For  the  real  beer  lover. 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co. 

Fifth  Avenue 

Willlamsport 

323-3237 


scnicsici.    he   csplaincil.    ihe   cost    „i 

c^c •-•    loi    WmicIi    is   1,1    li.iiii    s  4s 

|vni       liiinl      111  IS     p  ,„  ,     Mniul  i> 
lhr,.u...|,    llniisifis 

Ihc  d.iMiiiK'   hoiiiK    i.ilc  icin.iiiiv 
:il   7s  a, us  pci    h.nil.  hcsiiiil 

The  day  of  Creation,  calculated  by 
Archbishop  James  Ussher  of  Armagh. 
Ireland  and  conlemporories,  was  Sun- 
day, Oct.  23,  4004  B.  C. 


QUE  PASfl 
BODTiaOE 

Fourth  and  William  Sis. 


Wentz  elected  to  state  office,  College's  PBL  takes  awards 


By  Lana  M.  Apker 

Of  Thr  spoil  K.HT  Slafl 

Andy  W.  Wcniz,  Phi  Bcia 
Lambda  (PBL)  prcsidcni.  was  elected 
slalewide  PBL  presideni  ai  the  stale 
conlerence  held  in  Pittsburgh  the 
weekend  of  March  21-22-23. 

Also  elected  to  a  state  office  was 
David  E.  Rickcr.  who  became  stale 
treasurer. 


Weniz  was  also  named  to 
Who's  Who,  a  group  consisting  of  a 
member  from  each  delegation 
recognized  for  his  or  her  individual 
achievements  in  Phi  Beta  Lambda. 

The  College  delegation  won 
more  awards  than  any  other  two-year 
college  and  more  Ihan  many  four-year 
colleges,  according  to  Wentz,  and 
brought  home  six  individual  and  two 


group  awards.  place    for    management,    and    W»ntz 

Maynard     C.     Butterworth  brought  home  third  place  for  business 

brought  home  a  first  award  for  extem-  law. 

porancous  speaking.  As  a  group,  the  College  delega- 

Linda  E.  Whaley  won  first  place  tion    brought    home    a    fourth    place 


for  executive  typing.     Harold  P.  Eck 
won  first  place  for  Accounting  II. 

Winning  third  place  for  the 
marketing  competition  was  Jeff  C. 
Marklc.     Vicki  L.  Callahan  won  third 


in  outstanding  chapter  and 
second  place  for  its  project  Specs. 

All  the  awards  were  presented  at 
the  banquet  on  Saturday  night.    The 

(rtease  turn  lo  Pane  4) 


ePBt^lLCBDJtP 


WIMIamsport  Area 

Community  College 

Williamsport.fPa. 


Monday,  March  31,  1980 

Vol.  15,  No.  25 

4  Pages 


Contest  to  end 
in  two  weeks 

The  Housing  Committee  is 
holding  a  Landlord  Contest  to  enable 
students  to  pick  the  best  landlord.  The 
close-off  date  for  the  contest  will  be 
April  16,  according  to  Charles  Haas, 
student  housing  coordinator. 

The  winner  of  the  contest  will 
be  decided  by  students  on  the  Housing 
Committee. 

Students  on  the  Committee  in- 
clude: 

Dave  J.  Bentzel,  Plumbing, 
Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  Floriculture, 
Charles  D.  Lucky,  Diesel  Mechanics, 
George  F.  Stephens,  Jr.,  Plumbing, 
and  Brenda  H.  Stringer,  Marketing 
and  Merchandising. 

There  are  three  boxes  set  up  for 
the  drop-olf  of  entries  for  the  contest, 
according  to  Haas. 

These  boxes  are  sel  up  at  the 
Communications  Center,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  Cillo's  College  Cor- 
ner, and  the  Earth  Science  Building. 

On  the  outside  of  each  box  is  a 
sample  of  the  entry  blank  for  the  con- 
test, said  Haas. 

Circle  K  officers  elected 

circle  K  officers  for  the  Fall 
1980  term  have  been  elected,  according 
to  Krisiy  L.  Wright,  club  president. 

The  new  officers  are  Clifford 
R.  Parshal,  president;  Tracey  J. 
Menke,  vice  president;  Joe  D.  Deibler, 
secrclary:  and  Jon  L.  Crumady, 
treasurer. 


Spring  Event  begins  next  week 


WWAS  granted  permit  for  100  watts 


By  Jan  L.  Daniel 

Of  The  SPOTI  K.HJ  Slaff 

A  construction  permit  has  been 
received  by  radio  station  WWAS  from 
the  Federal  Communications  Commis- 
sion (FCC)  to  operate  at  100  watts 
power,  according  to  Clifford  C.  Hor- 
ton,  station  advisor. 

The  permit,  received  from  the 
FCC  March  5,  allows  18  months  for 
the  necessary  construction  to  be  com- 
pleted. This  would  give  a  projected 
finishing  date  of  Sept.  5,  1981,  said 
Horton. 

The  construction  needed  for  the 
additional  wattage  includes  the  addi- 
tion of  an  add-on  unit  for  the  transmit- 
ter and  a  new  transmission  line  from 
the  transmitter  to  the  antenna,  he  said. 

Also  required  for  the  additional 
power  is  the  replacement  of  the 
microphone,  turntable,  needle  car- 
tridge, and  the  pre  amps,  which  lake  he 


output  from  the  turntable  and  boost  it 
so   the  control   board   can   produce  a 
high  quality  sound,  Horton  added. 
New  Rules 

When  the  station  begins 
operating  at  100  watts,  Horton  said,  it 
will  come  under  a  complete  new  set  of 
rules  and  regulations  from  the  FCC. 

They  will  be  required  to  have  a 
"proof  of  performance"',  which  means 

GET  to  hold  dinner 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  will 
hold  a  banquet  at  7  p.m.  on  Wed., 
April  8.  at  the  Best  Western  Motor 
Inn.  according  to  Roxanne  M.  Roach, 
vice  president  and  secretary. 

The  banquet  is  for  all  fraternity 
members  and  Graphic  Arts  instructors. 

The  price  of  the  dinner  will  be 
$6.95. 

One  guest  is  allowed  per  frater- 
nity member,  said  Roach, 


they  will  have  to  prove  they  have  met 
"certain  minimum  audio  quality  stan- 
dards," Horton  added. 

Horton  has  applied  for  a  grant 
for  next  year  which,  if  received,  will 
cover  the  cost  of  equipment 
replacements  and  additions,  Horton 
said. 


If  the  grant  is 
added,  "we  will  have  ) 


I  received,  he 
il  problems." 

At  the  increased  power,  Horton 
said,  "our  primary  service  area  will  be 
a  13.8  mile  radius." 

With  the  increased  power,  he 
added,  they  arc  "anticipating  some  ad- 
ditional television  interference  pro- 
blems." 

The  new  equipment  "should 
give  the  students  a  more  realistic  view" 
of  the  commercial  broadcasting  world 
since  most  commercial  stations  operate 
at  100  watts,  Horton  said. 


Music,  games, 
'lotsa  freebies' 
to  be  featured 

By  Brian  Rippey 

or  The  SPOTI  K.HT  Slaff 

Sludenl  Governmenl  Associa- 
lion  (SGA)  Spring  Events  begin  at  11 
a.m.  Tuesday.  April  8  with  folk  singer 
Tom  Serabian  performing  in  front  of 
Klump  Academic  Center.  In  case  of 
inclement  weather.  Serabian  will  sing 
in  the  aiidilorium.  according  (o  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolti,  student  activities 
assistant 
^  ^^^  Free  hni  dofts  and  barbectueSc* 
will  be  served  hy  SCiA  members  at  (he 
performance,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

A  disco  dance  demonstration 
will  be  given  in  from  of  Klump 
Academic  Cenler  a(  2  p.m.  April  8- 
Dick  Slackhouse  of  Hughsvjlle  and 
Lauri  Yocum  of  Montgomery  will 
demonstrate  different  techniques  used 
in  disco  dancing. 

The  couple  placed  third  in  the 
1979  U.S.  Disco  Dancing  Competition 
held  in  Connecticut  last  June.  Mrs. 
Frcmiotii  said. 

(Please  turn  to  PaRe  2) 

ACF.S  FRISBEE  TEAM  member 
displays  one  of  his  acrobalie  frisbee 
catches  in  photo  at  left.  The  group  will 
give  a  demonstration  Thursday,  April 
10,  in  Bardo  Gym  as  pari  of  the  Spring 
Even!  activities. 

Rebecca  Gross, 
editor  emeritus, 
is  series  guest 

Miss  Rebecca  F.  Gross,  editor 
emeritus  of  the  Lock  Haven  Express, 
will  speak  at  the  next  session  of  "Your 
Own  Bag",  the  lecture-luncheon  series, 
in  Room  415,  Klump  Academic 
Cenler,  at  noon,  Friday,  April  II. 

Miss  Gross  attended  Temple 
University  for  two  years.  She  then 
returned  to  Lock  Haven  for  a  year  to 
work  on  the  Express.  Miss  Gross  then 
attended  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania. At  the  same  time,  she  work- 
ed lor  the  Philadelphia  Inquirer. 

Miss  Gross  graduated  in  1928,  and 
then  returned  to  the  Express.  She 
stayed  there  until  she  retired  in  1970. 

Miss  Gross  will  speak  about  the 
increase  in  newspaper  coverage  and  the 
troubles  that  newspapers  face  today. 


2       SPOTLIGHT 
Monday   March  31     1980 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

If  it  was  a  choice  between 
Kennedy  and  Carter  for  tfie 
Democratic  nomination,  who 
would  you  vote  for  and  why? 


Rodney  A  Wallace.  Adverllslng  Arl,  from 
Clearfield  "Kennedy,  because  Carter  had  his 
chance  to  prove  himsell  and  hasn't  " 

Paul  S  Benlzley.  Electrical  Technology,  from 
Westtield  "Carler,  because  you  shouldn't  change 
horses  in  midstream  " 

lulike  S  Bekker.  Graphic  Arts,  from  Wayne, 
New  Jersey  "Carler.  because  he  is  doing  a  good 
job  under  the  circumstances" 

tkflike  A  Rudisill.  Graphic  Arts,  from  Lan- 
caster "Kennedy,  because  last  night  I  saw  "Ar- 
chie Bunker",  and  he  had  a  promising  speech  tor 
Kennedy  " 


Interviews  and  photos 
by  Robert  J.  Allen 

01  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slad 


Rodney    A.    Wallace  Paul  S.  Benlzley 


Mike  S.  Bekker 


it 

fMike  A.  Rudisill 


WACC 

Landlord  of  the  Year 

Contest 

Does  your  landlord  act  quickly  on  constructive  criticisms  concerning  his  property? 

Does  your  landlord  return  a  fair  percentage  of  your  security  deposit? 

It 
Does  your  landlord  keep  the  property  in  a  habitable  condition? 

Does  your  landlord  respect  your  right  of  privacy? 

If 
Does  your  landlord  have  a  genuine  concern  for  the  students? 

Has  your  landlord  ever  done  anything  you  considered  above  and  beyond  the  call  of  duty? 

If  SO,  you  may  want  to  nominate  this  person  for 
the  WACC  Landlord  of  the  Year! 


CLIP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN 

Student  Name: 


Landlord  Name: 


Reasons  for  Nomination: 


CLIP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN- 


Spring  Events 
begin  April  8 

ICiiiimiinl  fr...i/  P,m-  II 

Two  volleyball  games  will  be 
played  in  Bardo  Gym  at  4  p.m.  April  8. 
The  WACC  Volleyball  Club  under  Ihe 
leadership  of  Dale  R.  Wehinger  will 
face  a  coed  squad  consisiing  of  faculty 
and  siaff  members. 

From  7  lo  10  p.m..  Tom  Scra- 
bian  will  plav  in  the  cafeteria.  Free 
coffee  will  be  served  by  SCA  members. 
Also,  Lauri  Yocum  and  ihe  Sevenih 
Veil  Dancers  will  perform  a  belly 
dance. 

The  group  will  dance  at  9:45  in 
the   cafeteria.    Mrs.    Fremiotii   said. 
Featured     with     "Sahaja",     Lauri 
Yocum.    will    be    "Shaheen".    Sonni 
Smith. 

Tuesday's  events  are  all  free  to 
students  and  the  public,  Mrs.  Fremiolti 
noted. 

Scott  Gailbraith  will  play  on  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  lawn  at  1 1 
a.m.  Wednesday.  April  9.  Gailbraith. 
a  folk  singer  from  New  .lersey.  played 
during  SGA  Fall  Events  last  year,  Mrs. 
Fremiotii  said. 

Gailbraith  will  play  at  the  Earth 
Science  Campus  at  10  a.m..  Thursday. 
April  10.  she  added. 

Free  ice  cream  will  be  served  to 
students  during  both  of  Gailbrailh's 
performances.  Mrs.  Fremiotii  said.  Ice 
cream  also  will  be  served  at  the  avia- 
tion hangar  at  1  p.m.  April  10. 

Harpo.  a  rock  group  from  Sun- 
bury,  will  hold  a  concert  at  8  p.m. 
Wednesday  in  Bardo  Gym.  Wildfire 
will  play  prior  lo  Harpo  that  evening. 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  Admission  is  free 
to  all  students  and  $1  to  the  public,  she 
added. 

On  Thursday  afternoon.  Jeff 
Felberbaum  and  Don  Rhodes  of  the 
Aces  Frisbee  Team  will  demonstrate 
various  throws  and  catches  with  a 
frisbee.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  This  is  to 
promote  the  demonstration  they  will 
give  al  7:30  p.m.  Thursday  in  Ihe  Bar- 
do  Gym.  she  added. 

The  two  are  the  current  world 
champions  in  freestyle  frisbee.  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  pointed  out.  They  have  been 
labeled  the  "Harlem  Globetrotters  of 
Frisbee"  for  their  incredible  freestyle 
techniques. 

The  demonstration  will  also  in- 
clude audience  pariicipation.  Mrs. 
Fremiotii  added.  People  are  asked  to 
bring  frisbees. 

GET  shows  project 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET), 
will  put  on  display  a  project  I  hat  they 
have  been  working  on.  The  display 
will  be  in  the  display  windows  on  Ihe 
first  floor  of  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  starting  Tuesday,  April  8,  said 
Mike  S.  Bekker.  chairman. 

The  display  will  feature  a  light 
table  and  a  press  which  will  look  like 
in  .nctiKTl  press  in  operation. 

The    disrl:iv    will    also    include 


posi 


and  olhc 


Nomination  coupons  way  lie  deposited  in  boxes  at  Cillo's  College  Coiner,  at  Kliinip  Academic 
Center  Communicalion\  Center  and  at  the  larlh  Science  liiiilding. 


SPOTLIGHT 

First  Place  Award  Winner 
Ttie  Columbia  Sctiolastic  Press  Association 

The  SPOTLIGHT  -s  published  weekly  Ihrouqhoui 
itie  academic  vea'  excepl  lor  College  vacalions 
Oy  lOijfnaltsm  sludenls  and  olhei  inleresled 
sludenK  OH'Ce  Room  7  Kliimp  Academic 
Cenier     releplione   in  7i  •)2(i-i7r,l    E«l   221 

Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  1$  a  member  of  Tire  Col- 
umbia Sctiolastic  Press  Association. 


fc.im 


Breon  Electrical  Co.  gets  signals  contract 


By  Jan  L.  Daniel 

<)1  The  SPOTI KiHT  Maff 

The  contract  for  the  flashing 
signal  units  has  been  officially  awarded 
to  Joel  D.  Breon  Electrical  Contractor, 
of  953  Market  St.,  Williamsport,  ac- 
cording to  Dr.  David  M.  Heiney.  dean 
for  student  and  career  development. 

According  to  Dean  Heiney,  the 
third  quote  was  required  due  to  a  col- 
lege policy  which  stipulates  that  three 
quotes  are  necessary  tiefore  a  contract 
can  he  awarded. 


The  quote  from  Breon  came  in 
at  $2545.  $880  less  than  the  previous 
low  quote  from  Quinn  Electric  Co.. 
also  of  Williamspori.  The  third  bidder 
was  Koser  Electric,  of  South 
Williamsport. 

Breon  ordered  the  necessary 
equipment  bsl  week,  but  said  it  would 
lake  "abotjl  three  weeks  for  the  equip- 
ment to  come  in,"  according  lo  Dean 
Heiney. 

Dean  Heiney  added  Breon 
would  Stan  as  soon  as  the  equipment 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL  50  CENTS 

per  game  during  open  bowling  hours 

daily;  Evenings  M-W-Th 


10am.  to  5  p  f 
8pm   to  1 1 :  Fr-Sat-Sun  1 0  am   to  1  2  pi 

YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 


WMPT  victorious 
over  broadcasters 

The  Wizards  of  WWAS,  Ihe 
College  radio  slalion's  baskeiball 
team,  went  down  lo  dcleai  al  the  hands 
of  Ihe  WMPT  Double  Dribblers  by  an 
80-59  score.  The  game  was  played 
March  20  in  Bardo  Gym. 

According  lo  Clifford  C.  Hor- 
lon.  broadcasting  instructor.  $25.85 
was  raised  to  be  donated  lo  ihe  Multi- 
ple Sclerosis  (MS)  Society. 

Horlon  said  he  thought  Ihe 
game  was  a  success.  He  added  the 
broadcasters  got  loeelher  for  a  worthy 
cause  and  lo  have  some  fun. 

WWAS  will  continue  playing 
this  spring  to  raise  money  tor  MS, 
Horlon  said.  The  team  will  return  in 
the  fall  to  continue  with  other  causes. 

WWAS  team  members  include 
Charles  E.  Carlson,  Tracie  .1.  Stevens, 
Howard  L.  Hoslrander,  David  J. 
White,  and  Sieve  D.  Berguson, 

Also,  Dennis  L.  Wise,  Richard 
F.  Deleo,  Jeffrey  L.  Calhcart,  Randall 
S.  Kibe,  and  David  S.  Co,x. 

Others  include  Wade  R.  Flick, 
Jody  M.  Bailey.  Michael  P. 
Handcrhan.  and  Horlon.  The 
timekeeper  was  Lonnic  L.  Hill. 

Linda  L.  Woodruff  collccied 
donations  at  Ihe  door. 


# 


c&  c 

Subs 

141  Campbell  St. 
326-6966 


Margaret  ("Max")  K.  Bubb  and 
Marilyn  R.  Surrield  rehearse  I  heir 
dance  routine  for  last  Thursday's 
"Reaching  Out",  a  presentation  of  the 
College  Theater  Company. 

Fall  registration 
begins  next  week 

Scheduling  for  Ihe  fall  semester 
begins  next  Tuesday.  April  8,  accor- 
ding to  Kaihryn  M.  Marcello,  director 
of  siudeni  records. 

Students  planning  to  reiurn  in 
the  fall  are  required  to  meet  with  their 
advisors  as  soon  as  possible  to  prepare 
their  schedule,  the  director  said. 

Students  should  be  aware  ihal 
they  may  not  enroll  for  more  than  18 
credit  hours  without  special  permission 
from  Ihe  appropriate  division  director, 
she  added. 

Fall  scheduling  will  continue 
from  Tuesday  through  April  25,  she 
said.  Those  students  who  are  returning 
and  have  scheduled  properly  will 
receive  a  bill  in  July,  she  added. 


1th      I 


The  Golden  Dragon  Judo  Clubs 

•  Adult  Judo  Classes        classes  Start  First  VWek  of  Each  Month 

•  Local  Tournatnenls         ^j^a^'o^li-c^u'^-e,— — ^ 

•  Certified  Belt  Rank         ^^        nu^rocc'rcccnw' 

Pfomotions  Q        ONE  FREE  LESSON        m 

<  Boys  &  Girls  Judo  Classes  ^  The  Golden  Diagon  JuiJo  Clubs  2 

>  SelfDefense/Ju  Jitsu     Brhis  Coupon  Good  for  One  Free  LessonM 
Classes  J     a,  williamsport,  Lock  Haven,    « 

368-3295  $      "'  ^^2^^!!!^^^       8 


=^X^^-;^7^^'^^s^.<x^ 


SPOTLIGHT    3 

Monday.  March  31     1980 


/ 


I 


$ 


1 


In  Cinemascope 

"THE"  musical  celebration. ..starring 
Joe  Cocker,  Sly  and  The  Family  Stone, 
Arlo  Guthrie,  Jimi  Hendrix,  Santana,  Joan 
Baez,  Country  Joe  and  The  Fish,  Crosby, 
Stills  and  Nash  and  many  others 

Plus:  "Moonbird"  -  -  a  short  fantasy 


No  film  next  week  (vacation) 

In  two  weeks: 
Clint  Eastwood  in... 

"The  Enforcer" 


The  WACC  Cinema  Club  presents...  Vi 

Tonight!  / 

7:30  p.m.  ^ 

Klump  Academic  Center  N 

Admission:  $1.00  |^ 

'WOODSTOCK' 


SPOTLIGHT      Monday   March  31     1960 


^iSS^n^WntA   1301   High  St  Wm»pt..P«.17701 


World  of  Work 


World  of  Work   is  a  regular  fealure  of  The  SPOTLIGHT,   m 

cooperanor,  with  Ihe  College  Placemem  Offwe.   InfnrmaU.m  n  u.pplic,l 

direclly  hy  Ihe  Placemen!  Office.    Inquiries  ahnul  Ihe  IhlmKS  -.Iwuldhe 

directed  to  persons  or  telephone  numbers  listed  or  to  the  Placement  Ul- 

fice. 

PART-TIME  JOBS 

Barlender  --  Male  or  female.   Apply  lo  Mr.  l.aihburg.  Holiday  Inn,  Cily. 

Teachtrs  Aide  --  Pari  time  (1 1:30  lo  2:30  p.m.  daily);  Hope  Enterprises, 
Inc  Posilion  with  its  preschool  program;  mvolves  assisting  with  a  program 
for  disabled  children  with  some  home  visits  required.  Salary:  $3.65  an  hour. 
A  car  and  some  training  and  experience  are  required.  Apply  School  of  Hope, 
l536CathrineSt.  „      .       ,,      .     . 

Store  Deleclive  --  Part  time.  Apply  Customer  Service,  Hess  s,  Lycoming 
Mall,  Muncy,  Pa.  ^       ^ 

LifeKuard  --  Swimming  Instructors,  Swim  Team  Coach  -  positions 
available  at  Jersey  Shore  area  pool.  Applications  may  be  picked  up  at  School 
Administration  Offices  201  South  Broad  St.,  Jersey  Shore,  Pa. 

Waitress  or  Waiter  --  Part  lime,  four  days  per  week,  3:30  to  9:30  p.m. 
Apply  in  person  City  View  Motel,  South  Williamsport. 

Part  Time  Experienced  Kloor  Buffer  --  For  Colonial  Cleaning,  Lycoming 
Mall.    Call  5S4-3820  after  4  p.m. 

Grass  cullinit"  Trimming,  large  lawn.  Must  have  own  equipment.  Reply 
Box  2-32,  Sun-Cazclte. 

CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 

Secretary  --  National  Corp.,  Muncy/Montgomery  area.  Must  be  efficient 
in  typing  and  filing.  Would  work  for  top  executive  of  the  division.  Shorthand 
desirable.   Send  resume  to  Box  A-5,  Sun-Gazette. 

AdministraHve  Assistant  -  Area  firm  has  immediate  opening  in  personnel 
function.  Posilion  requires  general  knowledge  of  Personnel  Practices.  Send 
resume,  including  salary  history,  in  confidence  lo  Box  A-15,  Sun-Gazeltc. 

Machine  Shop  Supervisor  -  Night  shift.  Apply  in  person,  8  a.m.  lo  4 
p.m.  daily,  Thompson  LquipmenI  Machine  Co.,  Inc.  Inlerslale  83  North  Exit 
il,  York,  Pa.    Call  717-764-1115. 

Machinist  ~  Thompson  Equipment  Machine  Co.,  Inc.  Inlerslale  83 
north,  Exil  II,  York,  Pa.    Call  717-764-1 1 15. 

LPN's-  Leader  Nursing  Center,  300  Leader  Dr.,  City.  Apply  Mrs.  Mc- 
Clintock,  323-8627. 

Electronic  Tech  ~  IBM,  1601  Sycamore  Rd.,  Cily.  Repair  and  mainiain 
IBM  machines  throughout  Cenlral  Pa.  Call  for  interview:  323-8475  or 
322-6452.    Ask  for  Ms.  Wentzler  or  Ms.  Brown. 

Denial  Hygienist  -  Dentist  office,  22  North  Second  St.,  17074. 

Dental  HygienisI  -  Temporary  posilion  until  end  of  school  term.  $37.50 
per  day.  Apply  North  Schuylkill  School  Dist.,  Frackville,  Pa.  17931.  Mr. 
James  Hoy,  assistant  superintendent. 

Aviation  Mechanics  -  40  mechanics  needed  immediately.  A&P  certificate 
preferred.  Apply  Stan  Baugh's  Air  Service,  P.O.  Box  149,  Harrisburg  Inter- 
national Airport,  Middlclown,  Pa.  17057.    To  the  attention  of  James  Kane. 

Operating  Room  Tech  -  Poly  Clinic  Medical  Center,  Harrisburg,  Pa 
17105.    Apply  Stephen  Rogers,  administrative  supervisor. 

Aviation  Mechanic  --  Air  America,  Wilkes-Barre-Scranlon  Airpori, 
Avoca,  Pa.  IH64I.    Apply  lo  Paul  Sesoal. 


REWARD  Is  being  olfered  lor  a  coat  laken 
trom  Ihe  Communications  Center  Monday, 
March  17  The  missing  coal  Is  a  blue,  girls 
coal  wllh  maroon  lining,  detachable  hood  11 
had  keys  In  the  pocket.  Any  Inlormalton  con- 
cerning the  missing  coal  should  be  given  to 
Ihe  Security  Ollicers.  tirsi  lloor,  Klump 
Academic  Center  lA.h  '  ' 


Gowns 

Spring  Dresses 
Sundresses 

by  Jessica  Gunne  Sax 

QUE  PASa 
BOUTiqUEl 

Fourth  and  William  Sts. 


Play 

l.ucky  Numbers 
Wecklv 


Cillo's 

College 

Corner 

Reslaurant/Snack  Bar 

H7A... 

M  hole  Sub  &  Med.  Drink 

(Drawing  on  Friday) 


Nine  selected 
for  tennis  team 

Nine  students  were  selected  for 
the  College  varsity  tennis  team  last 
Wednesday,  according  lo  Harry  C. 
Specht,  tennis  coach. 

Selected  were  Leroy  L.  Baer, 
Roy  A.  Fern,  David  A.  Hurd,  and 
Scott  A.  Miller. 

Also  chosen  were  Brad  Minnier. 
Steve  J.  Morrow.  Franklin  K.  Noll. 
Lester  W.  Oakes.  and  David  M.  Stop- 
per. 

The  tennis  team  is  scheduled  to 
play  seven  matches  ihis  season.  Us 
first  match  will  be  at  3:30  p.m.  Tues- 
day. April  8  at  Reading  Area  Com- 
munity College. 

The  home  opener  will  be  at  1 
p.m.  Tuesday.  April  22  against  Mon- 
tgomery County  Community  College. 

New  Co-op  program 
for  part-time  students 

A  new  extended  day 
Cooperative  Education  program  is  go- 
ing to  be  implemented  at  the  College. 
According  to  William  C.  Bradshaw. 
director  of  co-op.  the  main  thing  about 
the   program   now   is   "looking   for  a 

The  object  of  the  program  is  to 
make  credits  available  for  part-time 
students  working  on  a  full-time  job 
through  co-op.  According  to  Brad- 
shaw the  program  is  "giving  a  person  a 
chance  lo  earn  college  credits"  while  at 
their  regular  jobs. 

The  Advisory  Committee  for 
the  co-op  program  was  also  asked  for 
suggestions  on  how  Ihe  program  can  be 
marketed  lo  the  business  community. 


CARDS 


Easter 
Valentine 
All  Occasion 
Weird  Cards 


QUE  P^SA 
BOUTiaOE 

Fourth  and  William  Sts. 


Wentz  elected 


chapter  sponsored  the  marketing 
award  and  Robert  Lyons, 
marketing/ merchandising  instructor, 
sponsored  the  management  award. 

Wentz  said  that  afler  giving  his 
campaign  speech,  he  visited  the  four 
caucuses  and  was  asked  by  three  of 
them  why  his  delegation  was  so  en- 
Ihusiaslic. 

Wentz  also  said  the  delegalion 
had  a  good  time  and  learned  a  lot  from 
the  workshops  offered  al  the  con- 
ference. 

He  said  he  was  proud  of  the 
group's  accomplishments. 

Butterworth.  Whaley.  and  Eck, 
first-place  winners  in  the  compelition, 
now  are  eligible  for  national  competi- 
tion. 


Firdaus 
Abul  Kas 


was    the    pen    nan 


of 


Home  Service  Beverage  Co, 

Fifth  Avenue 

Williamsport 

323-3237 


For  the  real  beer  lover. 


■  IJUU) 


,<PJ0 


ePBtPHIJBtCt^ 


The   Williamsport   Area   Community 
College  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 


April  14.1980      8  Pages 
Vol.  15,  No  26 


Wacc 
Students 
Admitted 
Free 


Leon  Morris  &  Associates,  a  Bluegrass  band,  will  be  perforniin}>  al  the 
Bluegrass  Feslival  on  Thursday,  7:30.  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 


Bluegrass 
Concert 
Comin' 
Thursday 


The 
Decade 

of 
Women 


See 
Pages 

4&  5 


See 
Story 
Page  8 


SPOTLIGHTing 
The 

70s 


P3B,     2  SPOTLIGHT  *n"l      I''       '''*" 


VIEWPOINT 


Editorial 


Movie  review 


Student  is  injured.       Spring   Event  shows  effort      /-/a/y  JS   bSCk! 

flashers  still  absent 


Last  week.  Deborah  S  Bennett,  a  business 
student,  became  ttie  "near  miss"  tliat  wasn't  Ms 
Bennett  was  hit  wtiile  crossing  Third  Street  and 
sustained  a  fractured  hip 

While  the  flashing  signal  units  continue  to  be 
caught  up  in  bureaucratic  red  tape,  students  con- 
tinue to  risk  iniury 

We  were  told  the  needed  quotes  were  m.  and 
work  could  begin  as  soon  as  the  contract  was 
awarded  It  look  three  weeks  before  the  contract 
was  actually  awarded 

We  are  now  told  work  will  begin  as  soon  as 
the  proper  equipment  is  received  by  the  electrical 
conlractor  How  many  more  weeks  will  that  be. 
and  how  many  more  students  will  risk  injury 

Perhaps  three  weeks  does  not  seem  such  a 
long  time  for  the  paperwork  to  be  completed 

However,  if  there  had  not  been  a  year-and-a- 
hall  of  idleness,  the  flashers  would  now  be  up. 
working,  and  Ms  Bennett  may  have  been  spared 
the  pain  and  time  away  from  College  she  must 
now  (ace 

Book  review 


The  Student  Government  Association  is  to  be 
commended  for  the  fine  talent  they  engaged  for 
lasl  weeks     Rn'mg  Events 

Too  ofien,  we  dun  I  lake  the  time  to  consider 
the  effort  and  time  put  into  such  evenis  while  they 
are  slill  in  the  planning  stage 

To  those  students  and  staff  members  who 
volunteered  Iheir  time  and  effort,  a  hearty  Thank 
Yoiii 

Music  review 


"Evolution"  is  a  must 

By  Roherl  E.  Thomas 
Of  rhrsi'oiiu.Hl  ".iiiri 

"Evolulion"  by  the  rock  band.  Journey,  is  a 
masterpiece  of  modern  rock  music 

With  Steve  Perry  in  lead  vocals  backed  up  by 
excellent  instrumemals.  the  album  is  worthy  of  the 
money  from  anyone's  pocketbook 

The  two  better  tracks  on  Ihe  album  "Lovin, 
Touchin.  Squeezin "  and  "Jusi  The  Same  Way" 
have  received  much  air  play  and  are  worth  every 
second  of  it 

The  album  is  a  must  lor  any  record  collection 


By  Cindy  M.  Snook 

or  Tlie  SP0TI,K;HT  Slatt 

When  hippies.  Woodstock.  Vietnam,  and 
flower  power  were  in  daily  conversations.  "Hair" 
was  with  them    Now  "Hair"  is  returning 

Based  on  the  work  of  James  Rado.  Gerome 
Ragni.  and  composer  Gait  lyiacDermot.  this  ti^ilos 
Forman  film  was  an  eagerly  awaited  United  Artists 
release 

The  movie  was  shot  entirely  on  location  in 
New  York  and  California  with  a  young  but  very 
talented  cast  Cast  members  include  John 
Savage,  who  is  best  known  for  his  impact  in  "The 
Deer  Hunter".  Treat  Williams,  who  debuted  in 
"The  Ritz"  and  currently  stars  in  "1941";  and 
Beverly  D'Angelo.  who  has  appeared  in  "First 
Love"  and  "Every  Which  Way  But  Loose  " 

In  addition.  Annie  Golden,  who  sings  with  the 
new  wave  band  "The  Shirts";  Don  Dacus.  a 
member  of  the  rock  band  "Chicago";  and  Dorsey 
Woof 

"Hair"  displays  excellent  musical  ability  and 
superb  choreography  So.  if  you  like  hair  and  or 
great  entertainment,  fill  your  head  with  this 
beautiful  "Hair" 


A  book  to  take 
you  away 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 


By  Lana  Apker 

or  Thf  SPOTI.KiHT  Slitf 

"James  Herriofs  Yorkshire"  is  a  must  for 
anyone  who  has  read  any  one  or  all  three  of  his 
novels  about  his  work  as  a  country  veterinarian 

In  "Yorkshire".  Herriofs  warm,  lively  and  per- 
sonable literary  style  takes  Ihe  reader  on  a  guided 
lour  through  quaint  and  historical  towns,  through 
wild  and  beautifully  desolate  moors 

Complementing  Herriofs  words  on  every 
page  are  brilliant  photographs  by  Derry  Brabbs 

The  pictures  capture  Ihe  splendor  of  the 
countryside  while  Herriofs  words  transport  the 
reader  to  the  very  heart  of  that  splendor  and  then 
guide  the  reader's  walks  and  drives  across  that 
countryside 

Yorkshire.  England  is  (Jie  land  which  Herriot 
loves  This  is  where  his  career  as  a  country  vet 
began  and  where  his  other  novels  took  place 
Yorkshire  is  where  Herriot  married  and  reared  his 
children  Yorkshire  is  Herriofs  life  and  he  con- 
veys this  well  across  the  pages  of  "Yorkshire" 


Interviews   and   photos 
by   Robert   E.    Thomas 

Ot  Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  SlaH 


Interviews   and    photos   taken   at   the 
Diesel  Mechanics  Building. 


Do  you  feel  adequate  entertain- 
ment was  provided  for  this 
semester's  Spring  Event? 


The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 

John  F    ^elewicz 

Fealufes  and 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Ctilet  Ptiotogfapher 

Timothy  A    Tolh 

kdvertlslng  Representative 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J   Rexer 

Michael  T    Lehilos 

Reporters 

J.icqueline  J   Caidene 

Lana  M    Apker 

nobeM  J   Allen 

John  L    Rickerl 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Leslie  M    Rogers 

Trudy  M   Shively 

Cindy  M   Snook 

Larry  G   Steele 

Robert  E   Thomas 

Faculty  Advisor 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  weekly  throughout 
the  academic  year  except  tor  College  vacations, 
by  lournatism  students  and  other  rnleresled 
sludenK     Otiire      Room  7    Klump  Academic 


126-1 


22t 


Production  leam  litis  issue: 
Jan  L.  Daniel,  supervisor,  Larry 
G.  Steele,  Cindy  M.  Snook,  and 
Brian  M.  Rippey. 


Dcrrek    E.   Shields,   Auto   Body, 


Barn  E.  Mariz,  Diesel  Mechan 
from  Herndon    "Yes 


Vance    K.    Breining,    Carpentr 
jm      Jcrscv      Shore:      "Yes. 


Greg  Sidorick,  Civil  Engineering 
and  Technology,  from  Osceola  Mill 
"Yes.  more  ihan  ihere  was  last  year."' 


Trac\  L.  Barker,  Masonarv,  from 
Turboivillc:  "Yes." 


James    K.    Spitz,    Carpenlry    ar 

Const  ruci  ion,     I  rem     Wayne.     Ne 


Programs 
for  women 
begin  today 

By  Brian  Rippey 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Surf 

Women's  week  begins  today  and 
will  run  through  Thursday,  according 
to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  student 
activities  assistant.  All  programs  are 
free  to  the  public. 

Today,  a  presentation  will  be 
given  on  physical  fitness  for  women  at 
11:30  a.m.  in  the  Health  Classroom, 
Bardo  Gym.  Speaking  will  be  Ms.  Dot 
Angeli,  director  of  health,  physical 
education,  and  recreation  at  YWCA, 
and  Mrs.  Donna  Miller,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  physical  education  at  the  Col- 
ege. 

At  4:15  p.m.  today,  a  presentation 
on  working  women,  time  management, 
child  care  options,  and  other  issues  will 
be  given  in  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center.  A  panel  discussion 
and  question  and  answer  period  are  in- 
cluded in  the  scheduled  program.  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  said. 

The  panel  consists  of  five  women 
who  hold  nontraditional  jobs  in  such 
fields  as  business,  education,  and 
politics.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  added. 

The  panel  will  also  meet  at  7  p.m. 
in  Room  130,  Parkes  Automotive 
Building. 

Getting  a  Job 

Getting  a  job  will  be  discussed  at 
11:30  tomorrow  in  Room.  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center.  Discrimination  in 
interviewing  and  hiring  practices  will 
be  the  subject  matter,  according  to 
Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

"Domestic  Violence  and  the 
Potential  Abuser"  wilt  be  shown  at 
4:15  p.m.  in  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center.  The  film  and  the 
discussion  to  follow  will  deal  with  the 
psychological  and  legal  aspects  of 
domestic  violence. 

On  Wednesday,  issues  in  the  work 
force  will  be  discussed  in  Room  207. 
Klump  Academic  Center  at  11:30  a.m. 
Stress  management  will  be  the  main 
topic  discussed. 

Life  options  for  women  will  be 
discussed  at  4:15  p.m.  in  Room  207. 
Klump  Academic  Center.  Each  panel 
member  will  give  an  overview  of  her 
life  option  decision  followed  by  a  ques- 
tion and  answer  period.  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

Discrimination 

Recognizing  discrimination  on  the 
job  will  be  discussed  at  11:30  a.m. 
Thursday  in  Room  207.  Klump 
Academic  Center.  The  presentation  is 
entitled  "Issues  in  the  Work  Force:  On 
The  Job",  she  said. 


Carter  extends  FFA  challenge 


NOTICE 
From  Financial  Aid 
Renewal  applications  for 
Pennsylvania  Slate  Grants 
must  be  filed  by  May  I, 
1980.  If  you  received  a 
PHEAA  Grant  for  the 
1979-80  school  year,  you 
must  reapply  for  the  grant 
for  1980-1981. 

The  deadline  is  May  1, 
1980.  Please  mail  your 
completed  PHEAA/BEOG 
(blue  and  while)  application 
today. 


The  College  chapter  of  the 
Future  Farmers  of  America 
(FFA).  has  accepted  a  challenge 
on  energy  conservation  from 
President  Carter,  according  to 
Michael  A.  Sedlak,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  horticulture  and  direc- 
tor of  the  FFA  chapter. 

Sedlak  said  the  challenge  is 
extended  nationwide  to  high 
school  and  college  students.  He 
noted  both  high  school  and  col- 
lege students  are  members  of  his 
FFA  chapter. 

The  goal  of  the  challenge  is 
to  find  new  ways  to  conserve 
energy  and  to  create  new  pro- 
grams to  answer  the  basic  ques- 
tion of  energy  conservation. 

Sedlak  said  his  chapter  has 
submitted  essays  on  various  ways 
energy  can  be  conserved  in  the 
home,  school  and  the  community 
as  a  whole. 

Karen  E.  Hoar,  a  second 
year  horticulture  student  from 
Liberty,  and  her  family  have  been 
specially  recognized  for  their 
energy  conservation  efforts, 
Sedlak  staled. 

The  Hoar  family  is  very 
much  "self-sufficient"  with  their 
living  conditions.  They  heat  their 
home  all  winter  with  wood  and 
coal  stoves.  They  have  no  hot 
water  heater  and  heat  their  water 


for  bathing,  cleaning  and  cook- 
ing on  a  wood  stove. 

They  also  grow  their  own 
vegetables  and  raise  livestock, 
such  as  pigs  and  chickens. 

Hoar's  father,  an  electrician- 
plumber,  keeps  bees  in  the  sum- 
mer for  breeding  and  producing 
honey.  He  also  teaches 
Homesteading  Festival  courses  at 
Mansfield  Stale  College.  These 
courses  are  designed  to  leach  the 
students  how  to  be  more  "self- 
sufficent." 


WW  AS  begins  new  program 


By  Jan  Daniel 

<)t  Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  Slatr 

Last  Wednesday,  April  9,  marked 
the  initiation  of  a  new  public  affairs 
program,  entitled  "WACC  in  Perspec- 
tive," on  WW  AS,  the  College  station. 

The  program  aired  at  3  p.m.,  with 
Clifford  C.  Horton,  the  station  ad- 
visor, as  Ihe  first  guest,  according  to 
Wade  R.  Flick,  student  general 
manager. 

According  to  Flick,  the  program  is 
designed  to  let  the  students  become 
belter  acquainted  with  faculty  and  ad- 
ministration. 

The  program  will  consist  of  inter- 
views with  various  faculty  and  ad- 
ministration, with  questions  centering 
on  personal  background,  interests,  and 
leaching  specialily,  said  Flick. 

Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney,  director 
of  communications,  humanities,  and 
social  science  division,  will  be  Ihe  guest 
on  the  program  this  week,  scheduled  to 
air  at  1  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Flick  said. 

Athletes  to  receive 
awards  at  banquet 

The  Collcuc's  annual  All  Sporls 
Banquel  will  be  held  al  6:30  p.m.  in  Ihe 
Ascension  Church  Hall  in  Newberry, 
according  lo  Harry  C.  Spechl.  banquel 
chairman. 

Alhlcics  will  be  recognized  for 
iheir  achicvcmcnis  during  Ihe  season. 
Spechl  said.  Awards  will  be  given  by 
ihc  coaches,  he  added. 


G.  Robert  Kissell.  professor  of 
history  and  government,  is  scheduled 
to  be  the  guest  on  the  program  next 
Wednesday.  April  23.  Flick  added. 

Broadcasting  students  will  be  con- 
ducting the  interviews  live,  with  other 
students  producing  Ihe  program,  ac- 
cording to  Flick. 

Linda  L.  Woodruff  and  Tracie  J. 
Stevens,  both  first  year  students,  con- 
ducted Ihe  interview  wilh  Horton  on 
Ihe  first  showing  of  the  program  last 
Wednesday,  said  Flick. 

David  Copps,  a  second  year  stu- 
dent, produced  Ihe  show.  Flick  added. 

WWAS  is  also  involved  in  another 
public  affairs  service.  Flick  said.  Each 
week.  Flick  calls  WYBT  in  Jersey 
Shore  and  is  taped  giving  a  list  of 
events  here  at  Ihe  College.  The  tape  is 
later  played  on  the  air  on  WYBT's 
"The  College  Scene." 

The  Jersey  Shore  station  provides 
the  service  for  Lycoming  College.  Lock 
Haven  Slate  College,  and  WACC.  said 
Flick. 

Printers'  group 
to  hold  dinner 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  will 
hold  a  banquel  at  7  p.m..  Wednesday. 
April  30.  in  the  Besl  Western  Motor 
Inn,  according  to  Roxann  M.  Roach, 
vice  president  and  secrelary. 

The  banquel  is  for  all  fraternity 
members  and  graphic  arts  instuclors. 

The  price  of  the  dinner  is  $6.95. 

One  guest  is  allowed  per  fraternity 
member,  said  Miss  Roach. 


SPOTLK.HT  Page     J 

Tuition  hike 
presented  in 
new  budget 

By  Gail  Thompson 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

Rising  costs  are  to  blame  for  a  propos- 
ed $100  tuition  hike  effective  this  fall, 
according  lo  Dr.  William  H.  Fcd- 
dersen.  College  president. 

The  increase  was  proposed  in  the 
College's  new  1980-81  fiscal  budget, 
which  was  introduced  to  the  Board  of 
Trustees  at  the  April  Board  meeting 
held  last  Monday. 

If  approved  by  the  Board,  and  the 
20  sponsoring  school  districts,  tuition 
would  be  $425  per  semester,  or  $850 
per  year  for  students  who  reside  within 
a  sponsoring  school  district,  or  within 
another  Pennsylvania  Community  Col- 
lege District. 

Students  who  reside  in  non- 
sponsoring  school  districts  would  pay 
$810  per  semester,  or  $1,600  per  year, 
and  out-of-state  residents  would  pay 
$1,110  per  semester,  or  $2,200  per 
year. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  the  student 
pays  one-third  of  the  amount  needed  to 
educate  one  full-time  equivalent  stu- 
dent, or  $850  of  $2,545. 

Sponsoring  school  districts  pay 
$770,  and  the  state  pays  $500  of  the  re- 
maining two-thirds. 

The  College  receives  an  additional 
$150  from  the  state  for  each  student 
enrolled  in  an  occupational  program. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  this  applies  to 
95  percent  of  the  students  enrolled  in 
the  College,  exempting  only  those  in 
general  studies  and  Individual  studies. 

The  difference  remaining  from  the 
sponsor's,  the  students  and  the  slate's 
share  comes  from  the  College's  other 
income,  such  as  grants  and  interest. 

Because  the  two  sources  for  in- 
creases can  only  be  the  student  and  the 
sponsoring  district.  Dr.  Feddersen  said 
Flouse  Bill  419  would  be  the  only  way 
to  get  an  increase  in  the  state's  share. 

Bill  419  would  require  the  state  to 
pay  $600  per  student,  rather  than  the 
current  $500  if  passed.  Dr.  Feddersen 
explained- 

With  the  additional  $150  for  oc- 
cupational programs.'  the  state  share 
would  be  $750.  he  added. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  the  budget  will 
be  sent  lo  the  sponsoring  school 
districts  for  approval,  within  the  next 
10  days. 


Play 

Lucky  Numbers 

"""'"Cilib's 
College 
Corner 

flestauranl/Snack  Bar 

W/A... 
Hhole  Sub  &  Med.  Drink 
(Drawing  on  Friday) 
SPttlAL  THIS  WEEK 

Whole 

Cold  Ham  &  Cheese 

S2.65 

Reg.  Price  $2.90 

Save  25  cents 

Tax  Included 


Education  secretary 
to  visit  the  College 

Robert  G.  Scanlon,  secretary  of 
education,  will  be  visiting  the  College 
this  Thursday,  according  to  Ms.  Nancy 
K.  Harvin,  the  secretary's  speech 
writer. 

Since  becoming  the  secretary  of 
education  in  January,  1979,  Scanlon 
has  tried  to  visit  schools  in  the  slate 
two  days  of  every  week.  He  tries  to 
visit  as  many  different  types  of  schools 
as  he  can. 

Ms.  Marvin  said  Scanlon  will  be 
meeting  members  of  the  College's  ad- 
ministration and  student  body  at  a  lun- 
cheon at  the  College. 

Scanlon  is  interested  in  finding  out 
the  strengths  at  the  College,  and  also 
see  what  he  can  do  to  make  life  better 
for  administrators,  teachers,  and 
students,  Ms.  Harvin  said. 

Ms.  Harvin  said  Scanlon  will  visit 
Mansfield  Slate  College  Thursday, 
then  will  go  to  schools  in  Bradford  and 
Tioga  Counties  Wednesday. 

Besides  coming  to  the  College, 
Scanlon  will  also  be  meeting  with 
superintendanis  and  teachers  in  the 
Williamsport  area. 

Students  to  meet  with  Scanlon  are 
lanice  I..  Daniel,  Journalism;  Kimber- 
ly  A.  Dincher.  Floriculture;  and  Viola 
K.  Pfleefor,  Dietetic  Technician. 

Also  David  K.  Rickct,  Business 
Management,  and  George  F.  Stephens 
Jr  ,  Plumbing  and  Heating. 

Grades  to  be  held 
if  fines  are  not  paid 

Students  with  parking  fines  to 
be  paid  should  settle  them  in  the 
Security  Office  before  April  17,  accor- 
ding to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  head  of 
security. 

He  warned  that  if  the  fines  are 
not  paid,  the  students  transcripts  and 
grades  will  be  withheld. 

The  Security  Office  has  received 
a  number  of  lost  books  and  articles  of 
clothing,  said  Smeak.  The  owners  can 
obtain  these  articles  by  identifying 
them,  he  explained. 

Smeak  also  asked  transporta- 
tion technology  students  to  remove 
junked  cars  from  the  shop  area  before 
the  end  of  the  somesler. 


April 


The  Decade  Of  Women 


?> 


We  Buy  and  Sell 
(yj^QIC  Used  Albums 

MUSHROOM 

J29  Hepburn  SI 
Wilhamspoit.  Pa        322-4451 
Open  at  11  00  a  m  daily 
Gifts- leweliy 


By  Trudy  M.  Shively 
or  Thf  spoTi  i<;ht  siifi 

Who  were  you  before  the  70's 
began?  While  most  were  preparing  for 
their  "role  in  society,"  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  women  everywhere  were 
grouping  to  combat  these  same  oppres- 
sions and  frustrations  affecting  us  all. 

In  one  way  or  another  the  70's 
brought  dramatic  changes  which 
touched  each  of  us. ..changes  so  abrupt 
that  the  lasi  ten  years  have  been  termed 
"The  Decade  of  Women." 

We  as  sociologists,  for  instance, 
might  explain  that  every  major  issue 
raised  by  the  Womens  Movement  now 
has  majority  support  in  national  public 
opinion  polls;  from  the  supposedly 
"easy"  ones  like  equal  pay,  women  in 
political  office,  and  equal  acess  to 
education— to  the  supposedly  "con- 
troversial" ones  like  the  Equal  Rights 
Amendment,  a  woman's  right  to 
choose  an  abortion  or  "would-you- 
work-for-a-woman?"  Thai  represenls 
a  major  change  from  the  early  70's 
when  most  such  issues  were  supported 
by  only  a  minority. 

As  students  we  might  see  the  70's 
as  a  lime  of  massive  consciousness- 
raising  -breaking  se\-based  inequities, 
and  maybe  achieving  token  victories 
that  raised  women's  hopes. 

If  on  the  other  hand,  we  are 
"simply"  among  the  millions  of 
women  struggling  to  survive  the  double 
burden  of  working  outside  the  home, 
yet  carry  major  responsibilities  for 
homemaking  and  raising  children,  we 
might  describe  the  70's  as  a  decade  in 
which  we  advanced  "half"  the  battle. 
An  Awareness 

The  70's  brought  an  awareness  of 
our  need  to  reclaim  control  over  our 
own  bodies:  the  demand  to  make 
choices  about  pregnancy  and  childbirth 
and  an  expose  of  all  the  dangers  of  the 
pill.  We  began  to  find  out  information 
about  our  bodies---as  in  the  self- 
examination  demonstration.  We 
shared  the  truth,  as  did  Betty  Ford  in 
1974,  speaking  openly  about  her 
mastectomy. 


^.f--^' 


We've  learned  that  women  can 
and  should  do  "men's  jobs."  for  in- 
stance, and  we've  won  the  principle  {if 
not  the  fad)  of  getting  equal  pay.  But 
we  have  not  yet  established  the  princi- 
ple (much  less  the  fad)  that  men  can 
and  should  do  "women's  jobs." — that 
homemaking  and  child-raising  are  as 
much  a  man's  responsibility  too. 

The  work  of  women  in  the  home 
calls  for  redefinition  of  the  values  of 
work.  As  of  1975,  unpaid  housework 
is  estimated  to  be  worth  as  much  as 
$499  billion  to  the  U.S.  economy. 

In  1970,  43  percent  of  women 
worked  outside  the  home.  Now  50  per- 
cent are  in  the  work  force  and  nine  out 
of  ten  may  expect  to  work  for  pay 
sometime  in  their  lives. 

"Equal  pay  for  equal  work."  the 
concept  with  which  we  ended  the 
decade,  turned  out  to  fall  short  of  help- 
ing women  in  the  mostly  female,  non- 
unionized  jobs  of  the  "pink-collar" 
ghello  (another  70's  term).  What  did 
"equal  pay"  do  for  the  waitress  or  the 
secrelary,  for  instance?  Hardships 
were  shared  by  all. 


Illuslrated 
by 

Michael 


V  s'fc  ^ss*s«S5SSS«&"M!A!SSf«SS!SS:fti?JWi«iCJ^ 


Aprfl     14.     IVMO 


SySWXSSASSSJ^WSKSB 


SW>ftW:W:»m4S:SSS«!«;:5SfS»:S!::*:*S4:ft: 


SWS¥SJ:¥S4¥*::::; 


SPOTLIGHT 


m^ 


By  the  end  of  the  70's  "equal  pay 
for  comparable  work"  wa*.  the  new 
goal.  Comparabilily  siudics  began  on 
(he  many  blue-collar  jobs  ihal  required 
less  edticalion.  fewer  skills,  bui  siill  gol 
more  pay  Ihan  "pink-collar"  iobs. 
(This  new  research  will  be  iniroduced 
lo  ihe  couris  in  ihe  80's.) 

Importance  oi  Words 

Of  course,  an  importance  of 
words  is  their  power  to  exclude. 
"Man.  Mankind  and  lamily  of  Man" 
have  made  women  feel  left  out  and 
with  good  reason.  "People"  or 
"humanity"  were  suggcsled  as  partial 
remedies— so  were  rewrites  like  "The 
Human  Kamily"  or  "Peace  on  Earth. 
Goodwill  to  People."  Women  tried  to 
educate  by  asking  men  how  they  would 
feel  it  "they"  received  a  "Spinster  of 
Arts  t>r  Mistress  of  Science  Degree." 
and  then  applied  for  a  "Sisicrship." 

It  took  some  legal  procedure  and 
explaining  but  many  more  women  kept 
their  birth  names  in  the  70's— by 
choice.  "Ms."  entered  common  public 
usage  and  removed  the  necessity  of 
identifying  all  females  by  the  presence 
or  absence  of  a  man. 


"Homcmaker"  replaced 

housewite  as  a  way  of  making  clear 
women  were  not  married  to  houses. 
"Women's  Lib"  or  "Women's 
Libber"  (much  lo  the  knowledge  of' 
some)  had  diminished  by  the  end  of  the 
70's  if  not  disappeared  altogether. 

"Displaced  homemakers."  a  term 
invented  in  the  70's  by  women  who 
were  exactly  that,  spread  throughout 
the  coitntry  as  women  organized  into 
self-help  groups  and  pressured  Federal 
government  for  special  funding  and 
legislation. 

One  of  the  major  changes  in 
words  was  in  Ihe  redefinition  of 
"rapc"--now  understood  as  an  act  of 
violence  and  women-hatred. 

The  victim  was  no  longer  routinely 
assumed  to  have  "asked  for  it"  and  the 
rapist  was  no  longer  assumed  to  be  ac- 
ting in  a  somewhat  excusable, 
masculine  way. 

"Battered  women"was  a  phrase 
that  uncovered  a  major  kind  of 
violence  that  had  been  long  hidden.  It 
helped  to  reveal  the  fact  that  most 
violence  takes  place  in  our  homes,  not 
on  the  streets. 

"Sexual  harrassment  on  the  job" 
also  expressed  a  form  of  ratification 
from  which  many  women  workers  suf- 
fer. Talking  about  it  openly  inspired 
women  to  come  forward  and  slop 
blaming  themselves  or  other  victitrts. 

Words  and  their  definitions 
played  a  vital  part  in  re-shaping  Ihe 
role  of  women  in  the  last  decade.  Pro- 
gress is  based  on  construction  of  issues 
and  ideas  long  suppressed.  These  ac- 
complishments gained  strength  and 
wisdom  for  all  people  and  new  mean- 
ing for  women  everywhere. 


S:K*: 


The  80's  can  build  on  these  begin- 
nincs. 

1 470  -  50.(X»  women  march  down 
Filth  Avenue  in  New  York  during  the 
First  Annual  Nationwide  Strike  for 
Fciiialiiy.  celebrating  the  50th  anniver- 
sary of  suffrage.  It  is  the  largest  march 
in  U.S.  history. 

1971  -  The  Supreme  Court  rules 
that  companies  cannot  refuse  to  hire 
mothers  with  small  children  unless  the 
same  policy  applies  to  fathers. 

1972  -  Women  are  40  percent  of 
the  delegates  to  the  Democratic  Na- 
tional Convention  and  .15  percent  of 
them  are  Republican:  females  are  ap- 
pointed as  Senate  pages  for  the  lirsi 
lime  in  U.S.  hisiorv. 

1973  -  Billy  .lean  King  dcleats 
Bobby  Riggs  in  Ihe  "Baltic  ol  The 
Sexes"  tennis  match  in  the  Houston 
Asiiodome. 

1974  -  Elaine  Noble,  elected  lo  the 
Massachusetts  State  Legislature,  is  the 
first  self-declared  lesbian  elected  lo 
stale  office. 


1975  -  First  women's  bank  opens 
in  New  York  and  the  Supreme  Courl 
outlaws  automatic  exclusion  of  women 
from  jury  duty. 

1976  -  Janet  Guthrie  is  the  first 
woman  driver  to  race  in  Ihe  In- 
dianapolis 500  and  Barbara  Walters 
signs  a  million  dollar  contract  with 
ABC. 

1977  -  Readers  Digest  agress  lo 
pay  more  Ihan  $1.5  million  in  back  pay 
and  immediate  salary  increases  to 
2,61H)  women  employees. 

1978  -  Congress  extends  the 
deadline  for  ratification  of  the  Equal 
Rights  Amendment  to  June  30.  1982, 
while  more  women  than  men  enter  col- 
lege for  the  first  time  in  history  -  with 
87  percent  more  enrolling  in  medical 
^chools. 

1979  -  More  than  290  women  hold 
seats  on  boards  of  major  corporations, 
almost  double  the  number  in  1975  and 
Iranian  women  demonstrate  for 
women's  rights  under  the  Ayatollah 
Khomeini. 


SPOTIH.HT 


Jeff  Niklaus 
given  award 
by  sportsmen 

By  Jackie  Cardene 

Of  The  SPOTI  U.HT  Staff 


April      14.       lymi 

Jell  A.  Niklaus.  a  second  semesrer 
foreslry  lechnology  sludeni  from 
Huniersvjlle,  has  won  the  Laudadio 
Award   for  conservalion  and  ecology 

work,  according  lo  the  Federalion  of    Carolina  and  Delaware 
Sporismen.  f^^. 

Li.    Gov.    William    W.    Scranion     eighr  di 
prescnicd  ihe  award  at  the  annual  con 
veniion  in  Carlisle.  March  21. 


NikI: 


,  said  he  won  the  award  as 


a  resuli  ol  his  outdoor  studies  of  waier    back  to  ihc  Federation  of  Sporismen.  a 

pollution  control,  soil  erosion  and  also   candidate  is  chosen  from  each  district 

for  plaiitine  trees.   Niklaus  has  worked    lo  receive  the  Laudadio  Award. 

in     various     stales     including     South  Niklaus  said  he  hopes  lo  resume 

his  outdoor  work  this  summer.    After 

ding   10   Niklaus.   ihere  are    g"duaiion  from  the  College.  Niklaus 

Kis  included  in  the  conven-    •^••"''   '"^  ^oPes  lo  pursue  a  career  m 

foreslry  and  conservalion.   He  prcseni- 

lion.  Candidates  from  each  disirici  are   ly  works  parl-iimc  in  Muncy. 

seni   a  specific  rcsume/applicalion  lo  Niklaus  is  ihe  son  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 

fill  oul.      When   ihe  rciurns  are  seni    Ronald  E.  Niklaus  of  RD  2.  Muncy. 


Frienships  from  show 
last  forever 


By  Brian  Rippey 

OfTheSPOTIICHT  Staff 

Sitting  in  the  Tot  Watch  waiting  to 
go  on  stage  and  perform  in  Ihe  variety 
show  was  a  common  experience  shared 
by  all  the  members  who  participated  in 
the  show  Thursday,  March  27. 

While  the  audience  was  sitlmg  in 
the  auditorium  awaiting  the  start  of  the 
performance,  group  members  were  gel- 
ting  keyed  up  trying  to  give  their  best 
effort.  But,  it  wasn't  the  most  impor- 
tant thing  to  the  Theater  Company 
members. 

The  friendships  that  were  formed 
in  rehearshals  and  during  the  waiting 
period  will  last  much  longer  than  the 
show  or  the  memories  of  it. 

Because  of  the  easy  atmosphere  of 
rehearsals,  people  were  brought  closer 
together.  This  is  the  main  goal  of  the 
Theater  Company. 

Everything  didn't  run  as  smoothly 
as  was  planned,  but.  that  is  because  the 
Theater  Company  is  based  on  friend- 
ship, not  perfection. 

Some  interesting  comments  were 


made  in  regard  to  the  presentation  by 
the  audience.  One  incident  that  oc- 
cured  during  the  show  symbolized  the 
entire  affair. 

Dan  Domville.  while  holding  a 
knife  in  a  scene  from  "The  Merchant 
Of  Venice."  accidently  stabbed  himself 
in  the  face.  Blood  started  running 
down  his  cheek,  but  the  auidence  ac- 
cepted this  as  part  of  the  act.  "Guess 
he  was  of  the  Heinz  57  variety,"  an 
observer  told  the  group. 

Also.  Muffin,  an  English  Sheep- 
dog who  was  a  prelude  to  the  intermis- 
sion, urinated  while  he  was  on  stage, 
and  the  audience  roared.  "I  suppose 
the  dog  hesitated  since  we  neglected  to 
secure  a  tree  from  Earth  Science," 
Mrs.  Lea  Frymire.  theater  company 
advisor,  said. 

The  Theater  Company  also  per- 
formed ai  the  business  symposium  the 
following  day.  Everyone  was  in  a  very 
relaxed  mood  because  of  the  friend- 
ships that  were  gained  the  previous 
night.    It  was  much  easier. 


Dan  Domville  and  Marykay  Danneker  discuss  Ihe  future  of  Liza  Doliltle, 
played  by  Margaret  (Max)  Bubb,  in  a  scene  from  "My  Fair  Lady." 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents... 


CUNT  EASTWOOD 


THE  ENFORCER 


Klump  Academic 
Center 

Admission:   $1 


TONIGHT 


Next  Week 


"OH  NO"  They're  finally  Here! 
Cinema  Club  Season  finale 


Bambi  Meets  Godzilla  (an 

educational    two-minute 

short) 

Plus 

The  Giant  Spider  Invasion 

Plus 

The     Texas     Chainsaw 
Massacre 


Week  begins  with  exhibit 


National  Library  Week  began 
yesterday  and  the  James  V.  Brown 
Library  held  an  opening  tea  with  a 
photography  exhibit  in  the  Cominunity 
Room. 

Tonight's  activity  will  be  "The 
'Hard  Boiled'  School  of  Detective  Fic- 
tion," discussed  by  James  Logue  at  7 
p.m.  in  the  Community  Room  of  the 
Library. 

Tomorrow  afternoon  from  4  to 
4:45  p.m..  children's  films  will  be 
shown  at  the  Newberry  branch;  and 
Wednesday.  Judge  Thomas  Raup  will 
review  The  Breihern  at  the  annual  open 
meeting  -  Friends  of  the  Library  at  8' 
p.m.  in  the  Community  Room.  Bet- 
ween noon  and  I  p.m.  Wednesday 
there  will  be  n  special  "Films  Sand- 
wiched-ln"  pro.uram 

Pre-school  lilms  will  be  shown  at 
10:30  a.m.  en  Thursday,  in  ihe 
Children's  Room,  and  children's  films 
will  be  shown  4:45  p.m.  Thursday 
afternoon  at  the  Newberry  branch. 


"Clowns  and  Sounds,"  mime 
entertainment  by  Julie  Ferguson,  and 
Steve  Hulslander  .  a  folk 
singer/guitarist,  will  be  Saturdays  ac- 
tivities. The  mime  workshop  will  be 
from  2  to  4  p.m.  Saturday  afternoon  in 
the  Childrens  Room. 

Sunday  at  2  p.m.,  "Funny  Girl" 
starrmg  Barbra  Streisand  and  Omar 
Sharif  will  play  in  the  Community 
Room. 

Next  Tuesday,  April  22  will  close 
out  the  National  Library  Week  ac- 
tivities at  the  Library  with  "Horror  in 
Literature  and  Mass  Media"  discussed 
by  Dr.  Peter  Dumanis,  at  7  p.m.  in  the 
Community  Room. 

The  main  room  display  for  April 
at  the  Library  is  "Early  Viclorial 
Theorams  on  Velvet"  by  Mrs.  Marie 
Skinner. 

No  tines  on  overdue  books  will  be 
issued  from  April  13  to  26  as  part  of 
National  Library  Week  at  the  John  V. 
Brown  Library 


Four  starters  return  to  lead 
College  varsity  tennis  squad 


By  Brian  Rippey 

Of  TheSPOriK.HT  Slaff 

Four  lellermen  return  Trom  last 
season's  5-1  lennis  team.  Their  lone 
defeat  came  at  the  hands  of  Eastern 
Pennsylvania  Community  College 
Alhlelic  Conference  champion  Bucks 
County  Community  College  in  the 
opener. 

David  M.  Stopper,  general  studies 
student  from  Williamsporl,  lops  the 
list  of  last  year's  siariers.  Stopper 
compiled  a  5-1  mark  playing  in  Ihe 
number  two  spot  last  season. 
Squad  chosen  in  March 

Other  returning  starters  are  David 
A.  Hurd,  business  management  stu- 
dent from  Milesburg,  who  was  5-1 
playing  in  the  fourth  spot.  Roy  A. 
Fern,  architecture  student  fron  Dan- 
ville, who  was  3-1  playing  in  the  sixth 
slot,  and  Franklin  K.  Noll,  carpentry 
siudeni  from  Milesburg. 

The  remainder  of  the  squad  that 
was  chosen  March  26  at  tryouts  by 
coach  Harry  C.  Specht  includes  Leroy 
L.  Baer.  market  and  merchandising 
student  from  Williamsporl;  Scoll  A. 
Miller,  general  studies  student  from 
Williamsporl.  and  William  B.  Minnier. 
carpentry  student  from  Coatesville. 
Practice  limited 

Also  Steve  J.  Morrow,  general 
studies  student  from  Williamsport,  and 
Lester  W.  Oakes.  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Mill  Hall. 

"Practice  has  been  limited  due  to 
bad  weather."  Spechi  said  before  the 
Easter  vacation.  "Therefore,  positions 
and  doubles  partners  have  not  been 
selected." 

EPCCAC  rules  require  that  the 
lop  si\  plavcrs  be  placed   in  order  ot 


ability  and  play  against  the  opponent 
with  ihe  same  ranking.  Spechi  said. 

Also  there  are  three  doubles  teams 
that  compete  in  each  match.  One  point 
is  awarded  for  each  victory  in  singles 
and  doubles  play. 

Matches  at  Memnrial 

The  opening  match  was  to  have 
been  at  Delaware  County  Community 
College  Thursday  with  the  home 
opener  to  have  been  played  Saturday  at 
Williamsporl  Area  High  School,  accor- 
ding to  Ihe  revised  schedule, 

Specht  said  weekday  home  mat- 
ches will  be  played  at  Memorial  Park 
while  Saturday  home  matches  will  be 
played  at  Williamsport  Area  High 
School. 

After  last  season's  second  place 
league  finish,  Spechi  said  the  only 
chance  for  improvement  will  be  an 
undefeated  season  and  an  EPCCAC  ti- 
tle. 

Benefit  game  in  gym 
tomorrow  evening 

The  WWAS  baskelball  squad  has 
challenged  a  squad  from  the 
SPOTLIGHT  staff  to  a  basketball 
game  to  raise  money  for  the  Multiple 
Sclerosis  Society.  The  game  is  schedul- 
ed for  6:30  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the  Bar- 
do  Gym.  according  to  Sieve  D. 
Berguson,  broadcasting  student. 

This  activity  is  pari  of  WWAS's 
drive  to  conquer  MS.  Berguson  said. 
Admission  is  free  but  donations  will  be 
asked  for.  he  added, 

"Come  out  and  help  in  ilie  lighi  lo 
cure  MS."  Bcryuson  said. 


::::y::l 


NANCY'S  PLACE 

ii^CALL  IN  ORDERS         ^^Z^!::''! 


322-9010  i;: 

I 


April     14,     l«80  SPOTLIGHT  p.g,    7 

World  of  Work 

World  of  Work  IS  a  regular  feature  of  The  SPOTLIGHT,  in 
cooperation  with  the  College  Placement  Office.  Information  is  supplied 
directly  by  the  Placement  Office.  Inquiries  about  the  listings  should  be 
directed  to  persons  or  telephone  numbers  listed  or  to  the  Placement  Of- 
fice. 

Career  Employment 

Rate  &  Billing  Clerk  -  Jones  Motors,  call  494-1480. 

Lumber  Grader  --  Wood  furniture  manufacturer  in  western  New  York. 
Submit  resume  to  Bov  B-9,  Sun  Gazette. 

Drafting  Persons  -  AMP  Inc.,  P.O.  Box  3608,  Harrisburg.  Pa..  17105 
Call  717-780-8270  (Collect  calls  accepted.) 

Stockroom  Supervisor  -  Bailey  Controls  Co.,  2300  Reach  Road  PO 
Box  3306,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  17701. 

Typist     -     Dictaphone     transcription     skill     preferred,     occasional 
switchboard-receptionist  duties.    Apply  Young  Industries  Inc.,  Muncy  Pa 
Phone  717-546-3165. 

Engineering  Trainees -Call  toll-free  800-692-7800,  9a.m.  to  I  p.m.  daily. 

Mechanic  Trainees  -  Call  toll-free  800-692-7800,  9  a.m.  to  1  p.m.  daily. 

Architectural  --  E.B.  Enders  Lumber  Co.,  P.O.  Box  396,  Huntingdon, 
Pa.,  16652,    Apply  with  resume  to  A.  R.  Neary,  Jr.,  Call  814-643-1860. 

Computer  Programmer  --  Fruehauf  Corp..  Harrisburg  Plant,  P.O.  Box 
110.  Middlctown,  Pa.  17057.  Send  resume  to  Steve  Horney.  Call 
717-944-7491. 

Graphic  Pressperson  -  Times  Printing  Service,  67  Market  St.,  Wilkes- 
Barre,  Pa..  18701.    Send  resume  lo  Arnold  Fiergang.  Owner. 

Architectural  -  AMSCO  (American  Sterilizer  Co.).  2424  West  23rd  St., 
Erie,  Pa.,  16512. 

Computer  Operator  -  Valley  Farms  Dairy,  I860  East  Third  St., 
Williamsport,  Pa.,  17701.    Send  resume  to  Gene  Riedy,  call  326-2021. 

Computer  Operator  -  Pennsylvania  State  University,  117  Willard 
Building.  University  Park.  Pa..  16802.  Send  resume  to  Thomas  H. 
Federowics.    Call  814-865-1387. 

Electronics  Technician  -  Mergenthaler  Linefilm.  Box  18.  Wellsboro.  Pa. 
Send  resume  to  Gerald  WalcotI,  call  717-724-3611. 

Machinists  -  D.  H.  L.  Machine  Co..  1035  Northwest  End  Blvd..  Quaker- 
town.  Pa.  send  resume  to  Ronald  Datesman.   Call  215-536-3591. 

Electronic  Technician  -  Harris  Corp.,  P.O.  Box  883,  Melbourne,  Fla. 
32901.    Send  resume  to  Ron  Skellie. 

Computer  Operator  -  Jersey  Shore  Hospital,  Jersey  Shore.  Apply 
Margaret  Hampe,  call  398-0100. 

Part-Time  Jobs 

College  sludeni  needed  in  circulation  department  of  Sun-Cazeilc.  Six 
days  a  week,  must  be  over  18  and  have  a  good  driving  record.  Apply  in  person 
to  Circulation  Dept.,  252  West  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport,  Pa.,  17701. 

LPN  for  pediatric  group.  Experience  in  telephone  screening  and  general 
pediatrics  preferred.    Write  to  Box-13  Sun-Gazette. 

Lycoming  and  Clinton  Counties  Youth  Program  for  summer  work  study 
coordinator.  Position  is  scheduled  for  April  21.  through  August.  Applica- 
tions available  at  Youth  Program  Office.  West  Third  and  William  Streets 
Washington  School.  Room  201. 

Waitress  or  waiter  with  one  or  two  years  experience.    Phone  323-2871. 

Teller  with  local  bank.  Apply  personnel  department.  P.O.  Box  308 
Williamsport.  Pa..  17701. 

Sewing  Machine  operator  at  Glamorise,  2729  Reach  Road,  Williamsport 
Pa.,  17701. 

Recruiting  on  Campus 

Tomorrow  -  Book  of  the  Month,  New  York,  will  recruit  lor  business 
managers  and  marketers.    Group  meeting  at  9  a.m. 

Wednesday  -  Meldiseo,  New  Jersey,  will  recruit  for  business  managers 
and  marketers.    Group  meeting  at  9  a.m. 

Thursday  -  PennDot,  Harrisburg.  will  recruit  for  draftsmen  and  ar- 
chitects.   Group  meeting  at  II  a.m. 

Friday  -  Computer  Console.  New  York,  will  recruit  for  electronic  techni- 
cian.   Group  meeting  at  9  a.m. 

Monday.  April  21  -  Boise  Cascade,  AUenlown.  will  recruit  for  machinist. 
Group  meeting  at  10  a.m. 

Tuesday.  April  22  -  Bennett  Die  &  Tool.  Horscheads  N.Y..  will  recruit 
lor  machinists.    Group  meeting  at  9  a.m. 

Wednesday,  April  23  -  Dupont.  Towanda.  will  recruit  lor  electronic 
technicians.    Group  meeting  at  9  a.m. 

Wednesday.  April  23  -  F.W.  Woolworth  will  recruit  for  management 
trainees. 

Thursday.  April  24  --  Bechtel  Corp.  Gaiersburg.  Maryland,  will  recruit 
for  architects. 

Fridav.  Anril  2"!  -  Hnwietf  &  Pactii'd  Avonda'c  Pa  will  recruit  for 
nidchimsi 


.-^Deluxe  Cheeseburgers,  Subs,  Pizza,  B^Wraies^ 


Open  11  to  9  Daily 


zSSSSSSk 


Closea  Sunday 


!?4^7^  MK2M^  1301   HIgli  St  Wmtpi.,P».f Tim.  QUSML 


S1>()T1  KiHT 


SvSxCvAVCOAV>>>C^^^^^^ 


Bluegrass 

concert 

Thursday 


By  Lana  Apker 

Of  Thf  SPOTIIfiHT  staff 

The  College's  Special  Events 
Commillec  will  present  its  third  annual 
Bluegrass  Concert  this  Thursday,  at 
7:30  p.m.  in  the  Bardo  Gymnasium. 

This  year's  concert  will  star  Leon 
Morris  and  his  Bluegrass  Associates 
from  Alexandria.  Virginia.  According 
(o  Dr.  Peter  Dumanis,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  English,  Morris  is  considered 
one  of  the  great   contemporary   blue 


grass  guitar  pickers  and  has  released 
four  albums  and  several  singles. 

Admission  lo  the  concert  will  be 
free  to  students  with  I.D.  cards  and  $2 
per  person  for  the  general  public. 
Tickets  will  be  available  at  the  door  on- 
ly. 

Also  appearing  with  Morris  and 
his  band  will  be  Whetstone  Run,  a  top 
bluegrass  band  from  the  State  College 
area.  The  members  of  Whetstone  Run 
are  experts  in  both  traditional  blue 
grass  and  "new  grass"  music,  accor- 
ding lo  Dumanis. 

Whetstone  Run,  a  recently 
re-formed  group,  has  toured  the  coun- 


try, appearmg  wnh  several  premier 
bluegrass  groups.  They  have  released 
two  albums,  several  singles  and  their 
music  can  be  currently  heard  on 
WWAS.  88.1  FM.  the  College  radio 
station. 

Both  groups'  albums  will  be  on 
sale  at  the  concert. 

Morris  first  appeared  at  the  Col- 
lege in  March  of  '78  with  the  Diamond 
Back  Rattlers  and  Headin'  South  and 
played  lo  a  full  house. 


BULLETIN    BOARD 

MOVIK 

Tonight,  7:30  p.m.,   Klump  Academic  Ccnier  Auditorium.   "The  En- 
forcer", SI  admission. 

MEETINGS 
Student  Government  Association.  Room  132,  Klump  Academic  Center,  4 
p.m.  Tuesday. 

SPECIAl,  EVENTS 
Rollerskating  party,  Tuesday,  8  p.m.,  Skateland  USA. 
Bluegrass  Festival,  Thursday,  7:30  p.m.,  Bardo  Gym,  admission  free  with 
student  ID. 

SHARE  A  ROOM?  Wanted:  To 
CLEAN  SWEEP.  Help  the  gel  in  contact  with  any  male  student 
Loyalsock  Township  Lions  help  the  transferring  lo  Penn  State  main  cam- 
blind.  One  of  the  club's  projects  this  pus.  State  College.  I  would  like  to 
year  is  a  door-to-door  Broom  Sale,  talk  to  you  about  rooming  together 
The  proceedes  will  be  used  lo  aid  off-campus  up  there.  Get  in  contact 
the  Wills  Eye  Hospital  in  with  me  and  maybe  we  can  work 
Philadelphia.  The  Lions  are  plann-  something  up.  Chris  D.  Weller,  rear 
ing  for  a  "Clean  Sweep"  on  this  333  Broad  St.,  Monloursville,  Pa.  I 
Saturday,  April  19.  Brooms  may  also  have  no  phone  so  you  can  leave 
be  obtained  by  contacting  any  message  with  NIr.  Lyman  Milroy, 
member  of  the  club.  Call  322-1932.  math  department.  Room  129,  Klump. 
(^dvl  >  (.vivi  1 


WACC 

Landlord  of  the  Year 

Contest 


Does  your  landlord  act  quickly  on  constructive  cilllclsms  concerning  his  properly? 
Does  your  landlord  return  a  fair  percentage  of  your  security  deposit? 
Does  your  landlord  keep  llie  properly  in  a  habitable  condition? 

Does  your  landlord  respect  your  right  o(  privacy? 
* 

Does  your  landlord  have  a  genuine  concern  lor  the  students? 
* 

Has  your  landlord  ever  done  anything  you  considered  above  and  beyond  the  call  ol  duly' 

If  SO,  you  may  want  to  nominate  this  person  for 
the  WACC  Landlord  of  the  Year! 


Student  Name: 


-CLIP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN- 


Landlord  Name: 


Reasons  (or  Nomlnallon: 


-CUP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN- 


Students    reminded    to    return 
books  to  library  this  week 


"Several  students  are  usually  ... 
trouble  at  the  end  of  each  semester  for 
failing  to  return  books  on  time."  says 
David  P.  Siemsen.  director  of  the  Lear- 
ning Resources  Center  (LRC). 

This  results  in  fines  being  levied 
and  grades  withheld,  he  said. 

These  situations  could  be  avoided. 
Siemsen  said,  if  siudcnts  were  to  be 

Student  amnesty  is  here 

in  accordance  with  National  Library 
Week,  this  week  is  Amnesty  Week  at 
the  College  Library,  according  to  Mrs. 
Nancy  Schick,  secretary  at  the  Learn- 
ing Resources  Center. 

During  ihis  week,  all  library  books 
can  be  returned  wiihoul  fines.  Mrs. 
■Schick  said. 

FOR  SALE:  AM/FM  Bradford 
Stereo  Receiver.  Good  condition  w/2 
speakers.  $40.  See  Sandy,  Parkes 
Automotive  Bldg.  (advl  ) 


more  caretul  in  observing  the  "dale 
due"  indicated  in  the  books  borrowed 
from  the  College  Library. 

In  reviewing  the  past  four 
semesters.  Siemsen  notes  approximate- 
ly 40  to  50  siudcnis  ignore  the  "dale 
due".  When  this  happens,  he  said,  ihe 
LRC/Library  must  follow  regulations 
which  protect  students'  rights. 

Each  offender  is  notified  by  mail, 
Siesmen  said.  If  no  remedy  is  sought 
by  the  student,  a  form  is  issued  to  have 
grades  withheld  until  the  student 
returns  Ihe  book.  Replacement  costs  in 
1979  were  approximately  $15  per  book. 

Siemsen  said  the  LRC/Library 
cannot  ask  for  return  of  iiems  until 
near  lo  ihc  end  ol   the  semcsicr. 

FOR  SALE:  Tape  case  (8  track) 
with  17  tapes  for  sate.  Earlier  tapes 
of  Santana.  Three  Dog  Night,  etc. 
Everything  for  $18.  See  Sandy. 
Parkes  Automotive  Bldg.  ladvt  ) 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL  50  CENTS 

per  game  (during  open  bowling  hours 

1 0  a  m.  to  5  p  m  daily:  Evenings  M-W-Th 
8pm   to  1 1 ;  Fr-Sat-Sun  10am   to  1  2  p  m 


YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 


Land  of  Oz 

14  W.  Willow  Street 

Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 

(717)  322-6712 

Waterbeds  .  Jewelry  .  Novelties 


i  Fifth  Avenue 

I  Diner 

I  &  Sub  Shop 

I    Under  New  Management 

I 

}    Hours: 

9  a.m.  , Ota  p.„ 
I    closed  Sundays 


g. 


.  daily; 


Gel  Acquainted  Offer  S 

Any  Sub  Vz  Price!     S 

With  This  Coupon  S 

(  mipim  l-xpim   April  It.   mil  ^J 

a- ^^ 

P5^NI)_T_M<1UI_T0_S_I_H_AVI|^M_J«|^B 

Fifth  Avenue 
Just  Off  West  Fourth  Street 


^^^ 


^^ 


The  Williamsport  Area  Community 
College  Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 


ei^EtfLCBGJtf 


April  16,  1980 


Tom  McMillen 

to  be  speaker 

at  commencement 


Atlanta  Hawk  center 
well  known  in  area 

Tom  McMillen,  professional  basltetball  player  and  Rhodes  Scholar,  will 
be  the^speaker  al  commencement  on  May  10  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

In  1972,  while  attending  the  University  of  Maryland,  McMillen  was  a 
member  of  the  United  States  Olympic  basketball  team,  which  won  a  silver 
medal,  and  was  voted  the  Most  Valuable  Player  of  the  National  Invitation 
Tournament. 

McMillen  was  awarded  the  Rhodes  Scholarship  in  1973.  He  was  the  first 
recipient  of  that  prestigious  award  from  the  University  of  Maryland. 

In  June,  1975  he  signed  his  first  National  Basketball  Association  contract 
with  the  Buffalo  Braves.  He  is  currently  playing  with  the  Atlanta  Hawks 
organization. 


EXTRA. 


Dr,  Feddersen 
accepts  post 
on  West  Coast 


President  notifies  Trustees 

Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen  president  of  the  College  since  1974,  yesterday 
announced  he  will  accept  the  position  of  president  of  a  college  on  the  West 
Coast. 

Feddersen  was  reported  to  be  in  a  meeting  at  lunchtime  Tuesday  when  a 
SPOTLIGHT  reporter  tried  to  contact  him  for  comment. 

Dr.  Feddersen  submitted  his  letter  of  resignation  to  William  H,  Schrumm, 
chairman  of  the  Board  of  Trustees.  In  that  letter,  the  president  noted  that  he 
would  remain  on  campus  until  late  summer  in  order  to  help  transition  among 
the  administration. 

In  the  spring  of  1978,  Dr.  Feddersen  received  attention  because  it  was 
learned  that  he  had  sought  a  position  with  a  Florida  college.  At  that  time,  he 
indicated  to  local  media  that  a  mild  climate  would  be  beneficial  to  a  health 
problem. 

Dr.  Feddersen  came  to  the  Williamsport  Area  Community  College  in 
1974.  Prior  to  that  he  had  been  dean  and  director  of  the  Clarinda  Campus  of 
Iowa  Western  Community  College.  Earlier,  he  was  director  of  admissions, 
and  subsequently,  administrative  assistant  to  the  president  of  Bucks  County 
Community  College. 


Revitalization 
set  for  Klump 

By  Gail  Thompson 

Ol  rhf  SPOTI  l(.HT  M.fr 

Rejuvenadon  of  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  will  begin  as  ffesull 
of  a  federal  granl  loialing  $595,000. 
accordine  to  Dr.  William  H.  Fed- 
dersen.  College  Presidentl. 

The  U.S.  Deparimeni  of  Energy 
awarded  the  grant  as  a  part  of  the  In- 
stitutional Building  Grams  Program, 
he  said. 

Dr.  Fcdderscn  said  the  College 
received  the  largest  share  of  the  funds 
granted. 

"Retrofitting"  of  the  building  m- 
eludes  installation  of  new  double  pane, 
insulalcd  thermal  windows,  caulking 
and  weather  stripping.  Dr.  Feddcrsen 
explained. 

■  The  most  important,  and  most  ex- 
pensive part  to  the  revitalization  will  be 
a  new  heating  and  ventilating  system, 
converting  from  oil  to  gas.  he  added. 

Dr.  Feddersen  said  the  full  re- 
juvenating project  would  cost  twice  the 
amount  of  the  grant.  These  funds 
would  probably  be  provided  by  the 
state,  which  would  match  the  federal 
grant  by  50  percent. 

Energy  savings  resulting  from  the 
revitalization  would  ainount  to  $88,000 
a  year.  Dr.  Feddcrsen  added. 

Chemistry  instructor 
to  develop  workbook 

Sabbatical  leave  for  David  B. 
Clark,  assistant  professor  of 
Chemistry,  during  the  Spring  1981 
semester,  was  granted  by  the  Board  of 
Irusleu  M  the  April  Board  meeting 

According  to  background  material 
provided  in  the  Board's  agenda,  Clark 
plans  10  develop  a  workbook  in 
Chemistry  for  use  by  Horticulture 
students;  develop  a  course  in 
Chemistry  for  consumers;  write  a  t»x- 
tbook  in  basic  Chemistry,  and  rewrite 
Chemistry  courses  in  order  to  improve 
the  experiments. 

Clark  applied  for  a  state  Voca- 
tional Education  Grant  to  help  fund 
the  cost  of  developing  the  workbook. 

The  Board  also  approved  a  mo- 
tion to  pay  Clark  $2,475  to  design, 
develop,  test,  evaluate  and  implement 
a  graphic  arts  project,  which  included 
development  of  Photographic 
Chemistry  experiments. 

This  salary  was  provided  by 
federal  funds,  effective  from  July  12, 
1979  to  June  30,  1980. 

WACC  Rifle  Club 
seeks  new  members 

The  final  meeting  of  the  WACC 
Rifle  and  Pistol  Club  will  be  held  at 
6:30  Tuesday,  April  29  in  the  Secon- 
dary Automotive  Unit,  according  to 
Miss  Lynn  A.  Edeburn,  president. 

Finances  and  plans  for  next  year 
will  be  discussed  at  the  meeting.  Miss 
Edeburn  said.  .Anyone  interested  in 
joining  for  next  year  is  asked  to  attend, 
she  added. 

The  group  meets  every  Tuesday 
and  Thursday  evening  inside  the 
Secondary  Automotive  Unit,  Miss 
Edeburn  stated.  The  club  practices 
target  shooting  inside  the  building,  she 
added. 

Those  interested  may  also  contact 
Charles  A.  Brooke,  club  advisor,  in 
Room  130,  Klump  Academic  Center. 


Dental  hygienists 
to  sponsor  reception 

The  Student  American  Dental 
Hygienists  Association  of  the  College 
is  sponsoring  a  reception  on  Friday. 
April  18,  in  honor  of  Dr.  Esther 
Wilkens,  D.D.S.,  from  Massachusetts. 

In  addition  to  being  a  dentist.  Dr. 
Wilkens  is  also  a  registered  dental 
hygienist.  The  reception  will  be  attend- 
ed by  dental  hygiene  students  and 
faculty. 

Dr.  Wilkens  is  in  the  area  to  leach 
a  continuing  education  class  for  the 
North  Central  Dental  Hygienists 
Association.  The  class  will  be  held 
from  8:45  a.m.  to  5  p.m.,  Saturday, 
April  19,  at  the  Best  Western  Universi- 
ty Inn,  Williamsporl. 

Approximately  80  people,  in- 
cluding dental  hygiene  students,  in- 
structors, and  area  dentists  and 
hygienists  are  expected  to  attend. 

Student  interns 
in  counseling 

Ms.  Susan  L.  Patterson,  25,  of 
New  Castle,  is  attending  the  College  as 
an  intern  in  the  field  of  counseling  and 
career  development,  according  to 
Lawerence  W  .  Emery,  director  of 
counseling  and  career  development. 

According  to  Emery,  Ms.  Patter- 
son will  work  with  him  while  learning 
about  counseling  and  career  develop- 
ment in  Ihe  community  college. 

Emery  said,  Ms.  Patterson  is  at- 
tending the  Pennsylvania  State  Univer- 
sity where  ,she  is  taking  graduate 
courses  in  guidance  and  counseling, 
working  toward  a  Masters  degree  in 
education. 

According  to  Emery,  she  attended 
Grove  City  College  where  she  did  her 
undergraduate  work. 


Spring  banquet 
has  new  look 

A  new  look  is  planned  for  Ihe  Spr- 
ing Recognition  Banquet,  according  to 
David  P.  Sicmsen,  chairman  for  the 
event.  The  banquet  will  be  Wednes- 
day, April  30,  in  the  Annunciation 
Parish  Center. 

The  social  hour  will  begin  at  6 
p.m.,  while  dinner  will  be  at  6:30  p.m., 
Siemsen  said  After  dinner  Will  be  the 
awards  presentation  and  some  enter- 
tainment, he  said. 

The  awards  will  be  presented  by 
Mrs.  Veronica  Muzic,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  English.  They  will  be 
presented  to  individuals  nominated  by 
their  colleagues,  Siemsen  said. 

The  criteria  used  in  picking  the 
winners  were  quality  in  teaching  and 
extra  devotion,  he  said. 

According  to  Siemsen,  15  in- 
dividuals will  receive  awards. 

"Nothing  has  been  nailed  down 
yet  for  entertainment,"  Siemen  said. 
However,  he  did  say  that  some  form  of 
audience  participation  games  would  be 
played  and  prizes  given  out. 

Penn  State  offers 
scholarship  program 

The  Pennsylvania  State  University's 
Capilal  Campus  is  otYering  a  new 
scholarship  program  lor  studenls  who 
plan  to  transfer  to  the  universiiy,  ac- 
cording to  Lawrence  W.  Emery,  direc- 
lor.  counseling  and  career  develop- 
ment. 

Eligibility  for  the  scholarship  is 
based  on  three  criteria:  academic 
achievement  (minimum  of  3.00  GPA), 
extracurricular  and  community  ac- 
liviiies,  and  financial  need. 

Additional  information  is  on  the 
bulletin  board,  across  fnom  Room  210, 
Career  Development  Center,  second 
I'loor,  Klunip  Academic  Center, 


WACC 

Landlord  of  the  Year 

Contest 


Does  your  landlord  act  quickly  on  constructive  criticisi 

k 

Does  your  landlord  return  a  lair  percentage  of  your  se 

Does  your  landlord  keep  Ihe  property  in  a  habitable  cc 
Does  your  landlord  respecl  your  right  of  privacy? 


Does  your  landlord  have  a  genuir 


for  the  studenls? 


Has  your  landlord  ever  done  anything  you  considered  above  and  beyond  (he  call  of  duty? 

//  so,  you  may  want  to  nominate  this  person  for 
the  WACC  Landlord  of  the  Year! 


-CLIP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN- 


Student  Name; 


Landlord  Name: 


SNOW  to  sponsor 
volleyball  marathon 

A  volleyball  marathon  to  help 
raise  funds  for  the  American  Heart 
Association  will  be  sponsored  by  Stu- 
dent Nurses  of  WACC  (SNOW)  on 
Friday,  May  2  and  Saturday,  May  3, 
according  to  Connie  J.  Brown,  presi- 
dent. 

The  marathon  will  run  from  7 
p.m.,  Friday,  May  2  until  7  a.m., 
Saturday,  May  3. 

The  marathon  will  be  held  at  the 
Williamsporl  YMCA. 


Reasons  lor  Nomination; 


Who  Will  suiwlve 
I  be 
lenolltiem? 


THE 
TEXAS 
CHAINSAW 
MASSACRE' 


■■■m^ 


Monday 


-CLIP  THIS  COUPON  AND  RETURN- 


CLEAN  SWEEP.  Help  the 
Loyalsock  Township  Lions  help  the 
blind.  One  of  the  club's  proiects  this 
year  is  a  door-to-door  Broom  Sale. 
The  proceedes  will  be  used  to  aid 
the  Wills  Eye  Hospital  in 
Philadelphia.  The  Lions  are  plann- 
ing for  a  "Clean  Sweep"  on  this 
Saturday,  April  19.  Brooms  may  also 
be  obtained  by  contacting  any 
member  of  the  club.  Call  322-1932. 
(advt  I 

SHARE  A  ROOM?  Wanted:  To 
get  in  contact  with  any  male  student 
transferring  to  Penn  State  main  cam- 
pus. State  College.  I  would  like  to 
talk  to  you  about  rooming  together 
off-campus  up  there.  Get  in  contact 
with  me  and  maybe  we  can  work 
something  up.  Chris  D.  Weller,  rear 
333  Broad  St.,  Montoursville,  Pa.  I 
have  no  phone  so  you  can  leave 
message  with  Mr.  Lyman  Milroy, 
math  department.  Room  129,  Klump. 
(advl  1 

FOR  SALE:  AM/FM  Bradford 
Stereo  Receiver.  Good  condition  wf2 
speakers.  $40.  See  Sandy,  Parkes 
Automotive  BIdg.  ladvl  I 

FOR  SALE:  Tape  case  (8  track) 
with  17  tapes  lor  sale.  Earlier  tapes 
of  Santana,  Three  Dog  Ivlighl,  etc. 
Everything  tor  $18.  See  Sandy, 
Parkes  Automotive  Bldg.  (adw  ) 

j  SPOTLIGHT 

j  The      SPOTLIGHT      is 

j         published  weekly  throughout  the 
I         academic  year,  except  for  College 
j         vacations,  by  journalism  students 
I         and   other   interested   studenls. 
j         Office:      Room     7,      Klump 

I         Academic   Cenler.      Telephone: 
(717)  326-3761,  Ext.  221, 
\  The     SPOTLIGHT     is     a 

member     of     Ihe     Columbia 
Scholastic  Press  Assoclalion. 


Tom  McMillen  with  U.S.  Senator  Hugh  Scott 

McMillen  to  tip  off  commencement 


■VIEWPOINT- 


The  Iran  Crisis: 


Editorial 


Action  is  wasted 

The  severing  of  relations  wilh  Iran  seems  lo 
be  a  wasted  elfod 

Other  than  the  Iranian  diplomats  leaving  the 
US.,  and  various  implications  of  the  decision,  It 
will  bring  the  date  of  the  hostages  release  no 
closer 

During  the  crisis,  all  communication  between 
Iran  and  the  U  S  has  been  handled  by  a  neutral 
third  party,  not  by  the  diplomats  in  the  Iranian  em- 
bassy 

The  diplomats  were  simply  carrying  out 
usual,  day-to-day  business  while  they  were  here 

We  will  no  longer  export  or  import  from  Iran 
as  a  result  of  the  sever 

Since  the  cnsis  began,  our  imports  of  oil  and 
other  goods  trom  Iran  has  dropped  oil  dramatical- 
ly anyway,  so  how  can  Iran  be  said  to  be  suffering 

A  more  direct  approach  is  needed  to  bring 
the  hostages  home,  not  a  shallow  threat 


Pro/Con 


Editorial 


Severed  relations 
may  cause  harm. 

Sending  Iranian  diplomats  back  lo  Iran  may 
seem  like  a  good  idea  now,  but  what  about  tomor- 
row? 

The  treeing  ot  Americans  held  in  Iran  is  no 
closer  than  the  first  day  they  were  taken  hostage 

Severing  relations  by  sending  Iranian 
diplomats  away  will  not  help,  but  hinder  the  tree- 
ing of  hostages 

Stopping  the  importing  ot  Iran's  products  is  a 
way  lo  use  the  Nations  might  But,  severing  a 
means  of  communication  with  Iran  can  be  a  tragic 
It  r'ol  a  fatal  mistake 


Life  after  WACC 

Is  there  life  after  WACC  Former  graduates 
are  seen  now  and  then  lending  credence  to 
rumors  that  there  is, 

Ivlay  10  IS  close  at  hand.  The  goals  which 
many  have  worked  for  so  long  is  coming  to  an 
end. 

But,  there  is  much  to  be  done  Term  papers, 
tests,  and  final  projects  will  soon  be  due 

But.  for  those  who  graduate  there  is  much 
more  lo  be  done  Resumes  should  be  sent  out  lo 
potential  employers  by  those  who  will  be  looking 
for  employment 

Those  who  will  continue  onto  another  college 
should  learn  about  tuition  costs,  transferable 
credits,  housing  and  any  financial  benefits  which 
may  be  available 

Don't  be  left  out  in  the  cold,  work  now  for  the 
future  so  you'll  find  life  after  WACC 


MINITORIAL:  Your  measure  is  deterrrtirted 
by  how  you  do  your  work,  not  by  wtiat  you 


Interviews  and  photos  by  Jack  Rickert 

O!  Th«  SPOTLIGHT  Slaft 


Do    you    think    the    United 
States  should  take  military  action 
against  Iran? 


Vic  K.  SIroup,  broadcasting, 
from  South  Williamsport:  "We 
should  bomb  them." 


A 


John  A.  Moran,  broa- 
casting.  from  Honesdale  "I  think 
we  should  definitely  lake  military 
action." 


Mike  D.  Rossi,  general 
studies.  Factoryville"No.  We're 
not  prepared  lo  go  to  war." 


Davf  P.  Montis,  general 
studies,  from  Loyaisock:  "I  think 
they  should  set  a  short  deadline 
to  relase  the  hostages.  It  the 
deadline  is  not  met.  we  should 
run  air  strikes  on  the  oil  fields  " 


Brad  Milsdaifer,  electrical 
construction,  trom  Williamsport; 
"I  think  the  US  should  eventual- 
ly try  a  Naval  blockade." 


A. 

Sieve  D.  Myers,  general 
studies,  trom  Hughesville  "No,  I 
don't  I  don't  teel  we're 
economically  stable  enough  to 
fight  a  war " 


From  My  Desk 


College  raise  of  tuition  rates 
'unfair'  to  non-sponsored 

From  My  Desk  is  wnllen  by  slaff  members  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT 
on  topics  ot  individual  interest.    Opinions  expressed  may  or  may 
not  relied  the  opinion  ol  the  newspaper  or  olhers- 
By  Bob  Allen 
01  The  SPOTLIGHT  Stall 

I  feel  it  is  grossly  unfair  to  raise  the  tuition  lor  the  College  by 
$100  The  reason  I  feel  it  is  unfair  is  because  those  students  who 
do  not  live  in  a  sponsoring  school  district  have  to  rely  on  family 
funds  or  financial  aid  in  order  to  meet  the  costs  of  this  institution. 

Coming  from  a  school  district  which  does  not  sponsor  the  Col- 
lege. I  know  the  financial  burdens  this  places  on  student  and 
families 

In  my  opinion.  I  think  the  College  should  raise  the  assessment 
of  the  sponsoring  school  districts  in  order  lo  meet  its  current  finan- 
cial obligations  rather  than  raising  the  tuition  As  of  now.  it  costs  a 
person  from  a  non-sponsoring  district  almost  $1 ,800  in  order  to  at- 
tend the  College,  which  is  supposed  to  be  run  for  the  education  of 
our  area  youth 


V 

I 

E 
W 
P 

o 

I 

N 

T 


The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 

John  F   Zelewicz 

Features  and 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Sports  Editor 

Mollie  S   Zelewicz 

Chief  Ptiotographer 

Timolhy  A   Toth 

Advertising  Representative 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Staff  Artists 

Gerald  J    Rexet 

Michael  T    Lekites 

Reporters 

Jacqueline  J   Cardene 

Lana  M    Apker 

Robert  J   Allen 

John  L    Rickert 

Brian  M    Rippey 

Leslie  M    Rogers 

Trudy  M    Shively 

Cindy  M   Snook 

Larry  G   Steele 

Roberta   Thomas 

Faculty  Advisor 

Anthony  N    Cillo 

V  I  E  W  P  O  I  N  T 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
weekly  throughout  the  academic  year, 
except  for  College  vacations,  by  jour- 
nahsm  students  and  other  interested 
students.  Office:  Room  7,  Klump 
Academic  Center.  Telephone:  (717) 
326-3761.  Ext.  221. 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  member  of 
(he  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Associa- 


Produclion  Team  This  Issue: 

John  y.  Zeiewic/.  supervisor 

Jai-queline  Cardene.  eomposilion 

Mollie  Zelewicz.  cop>  conlrol 

Trudy     Shively,     Leslie     Roficrs.     Gail 

Thompson,  and  Robert  Thomas. 


SPOTLJGHT 


Tom  McMillen;  not  just  a  star  athlete 


Registration 
deadline 

With  only  four  days  left  to 
register.  85  percent,  or  over  1 ,500 
returning  students  have  not  yei 
scheduled  fall  Semester  classes, 
according  to  Ms.  Kathryn  M. 
Marcello,  director  of  student 
records. 

This  Friday,  April  25,  is  the 
deadline  to  register,  she  said. 

No  scheduling,  she  said, 
means  no  billing,  and  no  pay- 
ment means  no  guaranteed  seat  in 
a  class. 

In-person  registration,  the 
week  before  classes  begin,  will  be 
the  only  alternative  for  those  who 
do  not  schedule  now,  she  said. 


$13  raised  for  MS 

"A  iillle  over  $13  was  raised," 
staled  Sleven  D.  Berguson,  a  broad- 
casiing  sludent,  speaking  of  a  basliel- 
ball  game  for  Ihe  Multiple  Sclerosis 
Society  last  Tuesday  night  in  Bardo 
Gymnasium. 

The  game  was  a  hard-fought,  fast- 
paced  battle  with  the  Wizards  of 
WWAS,  Ihe  College  radio  staiion, 
defeating  Ihe  Jaguars  of  the  Jour- 
nalism program  76-56. 

The  activity  was  part  of  a  drive  by 
WWAS  to  help  the  bailie  against  MS, 
Berguson  said. 


By  Brian  Rippey 

Of  Tht  SPOTLIGHT  SCatf 


A  lifetime  of  accomplishments 
and  awards  will  be  behind  Atlanta 
Hawk  center  Tom  McMillen  when  he 
comes  lo  speak  at  Ihe  college  gradua- 
tion Saturday,  May  10. 

McMillen  has  received  many 
awards  for  his  basketball  ability,  but 


Among  his  accomplishments  at 
Mansfield  High  School  he  was  chosen 
valedictorian  of  his  graduating  class  in 
1970.  He  also  became  the  highest 
scorer  in  Pennsylvania  basketball 
history  in  the  same  year. 

At   Maryland,    McMillen   led   his 


year  career.  He  was  named  an 
Academic  Ail-American  four  straight 
years  while  being  named  to  [he  Basket- 
ball all-American  squad  from  '72  to 
•74. 


he  has  also  gained  recognition  for  his  team  lo  73-17  record  during  his  four- 
moves  off  Ihe  court.      The  6'I0'/!" 
center  was  recruited  by  350  colleges  but 
chose  to  go  to  Maryland   University 
because  of  its  fine  pre-med  program. 

His  3.8  average  at  Maryland  earn- 
ed him  a  Rhodes  Scholarship,  the  first  McMillen  was  voted  Most 
person  in  Maryland  history  to  gain  Ihe  Valuable  Player  in  the  1972  National 
award.  McMillen  completed  his  Invitation  Tournament  after  the  Terps 
studies  at  Oxford  University  in  June,  had  captured  Ihe  title.  He  also  was  a 
1978.  member   of  Ihe   U.S.   Olympic  silver 

McMillen  was  a  first  round  draft  medal   team   that   lost   a  conloversial 

choice  of  both  the  Buffalo  Braves  of  decision  to  Ihe  Soviet   Union  in  the 

Ihe  NBA  and  the  Virginia  Squires  of  finals  thai  year. 

Ihe    ABA    in     1974.        But    instead,  McMillen  is  also  active  in  many 

McMillen  chose  to  sign  with  an  Italian  activities  off  the  court.     He  has  par- 

baskelball  team  and  did  not  join  the  ticipated  in  fighting  leukemia,  selling 

NBA  until  1975  when  he  signed  a  five  U.S.     Saving     Bonds,     initialing     an 

year  contract  with  Buffalo.  Faslern    Shore    Basketball    Camp    in 

In  December,  1976,  Buffalo  trad-  Lewes,  Del.,  and  leading  a  Christmas 

ed  McMillen  to  Ihe  New  York  Knicks  Seal  Drive  in  Western  New  York, 

who  he  had  always  dreamed  of  playing  His  season  with  the  Hawks  was 

for.  He  responded  by  scoring  18  points  cut  short  this  year  as  he  was  sidelined 

and  grabbing  19  rebounds  in  his  debut  with  a  knee  injury. 


in  Madison  Square  Garden.  Over  the 
Christmas  week,  he  scored  a  career- 
high  31  points  against  the  Houston 
Rockets. 


Commencement  schedule 
for  students  completed 


A  schedule  concerning  the  May  10 
commencement  exercises  has  been  set 
up  by  the  Student  Activities  and  Place- 
ment Office.  Frank  J.  Bowes,  director. 

Caps  and  gowns  for  graduates  can 
be  picked  up  April  22  to  May  10  in  the 
bookstore.  The  bookstore  hours  Mon- 
day through  Friday  are  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m. 

A  commencement  rehearsal  will 
be  3:30  p.m.,  Tuesday,  April  29  in  the 
Bardo  Gym. 

May  10,  commencement  day,  an 
alumni  buffet  will  be  served  from  II 
a.m.  to  1:15  p.m.  in  the  Klump 
Academic  Center  cafeteria.  The  buffet 
is  for  the  graduates  and  the  parents  of 
graduates  desiring  a  luncheon  before 
the  exercises. 

Tickets  for  the  buffet  are  free  for 
the  graduates,  $4  for  guests,  and  $2  for 
children  under  12.  Free  tickets  can  be 
picked  up  from  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  Room  136,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  with  a  student  ID. 
Others  can  be  purchased  from  the 
cashier's  Office,  Room  106,  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday. 

The  graduates  will  meet  in  the 
auditorium  at  1:15  p.m.  commence- 
ment day.     There  they  will  don  caps 


A  medley  sung  by  the  Commence- 
ment choir  will  follow  the  invocation. 
The  choir  is  under  the  direction  of  Mrs. 
Lea  Frymire,  and  is  accompanied  on 
the  piano  by  Timothy  Mullen. 

Tom  McMillen,  of  the  Atlanta 
Hawks,  will  be  the  guest  speaker  at  the 
commencement. 

Following  McMillen,  Fred 
Gilmour  will  present  a  citation  to  the 
outstanding  alumnus.  Gilmour  is  the 
president  of  the  College  alumni 
association. 

Handling  the  awarding  of  degrees 
and  certificates,  and  also 
the  presentation  of  candidates  will  be 
Dr.  Feddersen  and  Dr.  Edmond  A. 
Walters  3rd,  dean  of  degree  and  cer- 
tificate programs. 

Donald  O.  Young,  director,  elec- 
tric/electronics division,  will  present 
the  student  awards. 

The  Rev.  Lena  Parr,  of  the  Salem 
A.M.E.  Zion  Church  in  Williamsport, 
will  give  the  benediction. 

The  Elk-Repasz  Band  will  then 
play  the  recessional. 


Spring  Event 
draws  crowds 

Everything  went  pretty  much  ac- 
cording 10  schedule  during  Spring 
Event,  said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R,  Fremiotti, 
sludenl  acllvilies  assislanl. 

An  estimated  1,600  sandwiches 
were  consumed  during  Tom  Serabian's 

performance     in     front     of     Klump    sylvania     Stale     Basketball     scoring 
Academic  Center  on  Tuesday,  April  8.     record   and   was  valediclorian   of  his 

The  biggest  crowd  was  drawn  by    1979  class. 
the  rock  concert  held  in  Bardo  Gym      f^      ./V  L      //    -t. 
Wednesday,  April  9.     Mrs.  Fremiotti     OOftUClll    teQmS 
said  appro.ximaiely  two  thousand  peo- 
pie  attended  the  concert  which  featured     ffJOVC    tOWGrd 


Even  in  high  school  people  had  lo 
look  up  to  theti'lOVi"  Tom  McMillen. 
While  at  Mansfield  he  broke  the  Penn- 


Harpo  and  Wildfire 

Scott  Gailbraith  was  unable  to  at- 
tend as  scheduled.  A  weekend  car  acci- 
dent prevented  Ihe  folksinger  from  ap- 
pearing, Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  A  singer 
was  obtained  lo  replace  him. 

Twelve  hundred  ice  cream  sand- 
wiches were  eaten  during  the  "mystery 
singer's"  performance,  Mrs.  Fremiotti 
said. 

TheAces  Frisbee  Team  put  on  a 
demonstration  in  the  Bardo  Gym 
Thursday,  April  10.  The  team  held  a 
competition  between  members  of  Ihe 
audience.  Two  players  played  catch 
for  one  minute  and  received  one  point 
for  each  catch.  Two  points  were 
received  for  a  trick  catch. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  estimated  that  200 
students  attended  the  demonstration. 
Souvenir  frisbees  were  sold  at  the 
event. 


Notices  in  the  mail 

Notification  of  financial  awards     WorkskOpS  attended 


for  next  year  are  in  the  mail,  according 


and  gowns  and  proceed  to  first  floor  to    to  Miss  Jennie  T.  Bills,  financial  aid 


line  up  for  Ihe  processional. 

The  student  procession  will  begin 
marching  at  2  p.m.,  across  Third  Street 
to  Bardo  Gym  for  Ihe  exercises. 

Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen,  presi- 
dent of  the  college,  will  preside  over 
the  ceremony.  The  processional  will  be 
played  by  Ihe  Elk-Repasz  Band. 

The  Rev.  William  R.  Kinzie,  of 
Ihe  Memorial  Baptist  Church  in 
Williamsport,  will  give  the  invocation. 


director. 

The  awards  are  in  the  form  of 
work-study  and  Supplemental  Educa- 
tional Opportunity  Grants  (SEOG). 
Miss  Bills  said.  Students  receiving  the 
awards  will  be  notified  in  the  near 
future  if  they  haven't  been  already. 

Rice  is  second  only  to  wheat,  speaking  of 
cereals,  in  the  quantity  grown  and  used  as 
human  food. 


Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  Ms.  Patricia 
J.  Shoff  and  Mrs.  Patricia  A.  Conn, 
assistant  professors  of  the  business  ad- 
ministration attended  the  Ninth  An- 
nual Business  Associations  Conference 
held  April  11,  12  and  13  in  Ihe  Har- 
risburg  Host  Inn. 

According  to  Goldfeder,  Ihe  pro- 
fessors participated  in  various 
workshops. 

Ms.  Shoff  was  chairman  for  a 
workshop  entitled,   "Eliminating  S"v 


quarter-finals 

Seven  of  the  eight  quarter-final 
spots  were  decided  in  the  Tuesday  and 
Thursday  division  of  the  Intramural 
Softball  Tournament,  according  to 
Thomas  G.  Gray,  director  of  in- 
tramural sports. 

Saw  Dusters  will  meet  Road  Trip- 
pers, Frank's  Bar  and  Grill  will  play 
Ihe  Wad  Squad,  also.  Franchise  will 
play  Ihe  Wood  Butchers  and  Civil  Tech 
will  meet  the  winner  of  the  Sir  Timber- 
Zappers  contest. 

In  the  Monday  and  Wednesday 
Division,  The  Pirates,  the  Palace  and 
the  Swamp  Rats  have  gained  spots  in 
the  quarter-finals.  The  winners  in  each 
division  will  meet  for  the  champion- 
ship. Gray  said. 

This  year's  tournament  is  single- 
elimination  due  to  the  lack  of  playing 
facilities.  Gray  noted.  No  walks  are 
being  allowed  but  strikes  are  being  call- 
ed, he  added.  "This  encourages  hit- 
ling,"  he  said. 

The  games  are  six  innings  long 
with  the  ten  run  rule  in  effect.  Any 
team  leading  by  ten  or  more  runs  after 
four  full  innings  will  be  the  winner,  he 
explained. 

Two  games  are  played  at  4:15 
p.m.  and  Iwo  games  are  played  at  5:30 
p.m..  Gray  noted.  The  defensive 
teams  share  a  common  outfield  in 
centerfield,  he  said. 


\SSW:SSWi«Sii*SWSWWSSSS»B«:*iK^^^ 


□□□□□□□□□□□D 


Looking  back  as  president 


By  Gail  Thompson 

or  Tllf  SPOTLIGHT  Suff 


Reflecting  on  his  six  years  as 
president  of  the  College,  Dr. 
William  H.  Feddersen  recalled 
the  highlights  of  his  career 
here. ..like  helping  to  raise  the 
College  out  of  its  $600,000  debt 
in  1974  to  a  surplus  budget  of 
over  $800,000  now... starting  the 
Adult  Counseling  Educational 
Services  (ACES),  and  being  ag- 
gressive in  obtaining  grants  and 
other  funding. 

Also,  instituting  new  pro- 
grams like  dental  hygiene. ..im- 
proving current  programs  with 
new  equipment  and  other 
matrials... enrollment 
increases. ..a  new  long-range 
master  plan,  and  lastly.  Stage  1 
building  program. 

Major  goals  were 
accomplished -"everything  I  set 
out  to  do  is  either  done  or  plann- 
ed", he  said. 

But  he  pointed  out  that  one 
of  his  problems  was  the  proposed 
administrative  reorganization 
plan  It  was  never  approved  by 
the  Board  of  Trustees    who  had 


Reception  held 
by  hygienists 

The  Student  American  Dental 
Hygienists  Association  (SADHA), 
sponsored  a  reception  last  Friday, 
April  18,  in  honor  of  Dr.  Esther 
Wilkens,  D.D.S.,  from  Massachusetts. 

In  addition  to  being  a  dentist.  Dr. 
Wilkens  is  also  a  registered  dental 
hygienist.  The  reception  was  attended 
by  dental  hygiene  students  and  faculty. 

Dr.  Wilkens  was  in  the  area  to 
teach  a  continuing  education  class  for 
the  North  Central  Dental  Hygienists 
Association.  The  class  was  to  have 
been  held  from  8:45  a.m.  to  5  p.m., 
Saturday,  April  19,  at  the  Best  Western 
University  Motor  Inn,  Williamsport. 

Approximately  80  people,  in- 
cluding dental  hygiene  students,  m- 
struclors,  and  area  dentists  and 
hygienists  were  expected  to  attend. 


A  thumbnut  i 


(mgnut. 


"set  it  aside"  due  to  some  spon- 
soring school  districts'  conten- 
tion that  it  would  have  an 
"adverse  effect"  on  the  seton 
dary  program  if  implemented,  he 
said. 

Discussing  his  new  post  in 
California,  Dr.  Feddersen  said 
Napa  College  has  6,000  students 
enrolled.  He  added  that  Napa 
College  doensn't  have  as  much 
vocational-technical  instruction 
as  does  this  College-only  60  per 
cent  to  "our"  95  percent 

The  new  post,  he  said,  will 
offer  "newer  and  better 
challenges". 

Despite  the  fact  that  the  Col- 
lege will  have  to  undergo  a  na 
lionwide  search  for  a  new  prcsi 
dent,  Dr.  Feddersen  said  there 
are  "positive  aspects"  of  getting 
a  new  president,  such  as  new 
ideas  and  input  to  further  better 
the  College. 

His  job,  the  people  he's 
worked  with,  and  the  College 
Itself  have  become  "part  of  my 
life"   he  said,  "I'll  miss  it  " 

Workshops  planned 
to  assist  graduates 

The  Career  Deveiopmeni  Cenier  is 
presenting  a  series  of  workshops  to 
assist  sluJents  in  obtaining  employ- 
ment after  graduation,  according  to 
Martin  McCormick.  career  develop- 
ment assistant. 

The  workshops  are  approximately 
one  hour  long,  and  will  be  in  the 
Career  Deveiopmeni  Cenier,  Room 
210,  Klump  Academic  Center,  McCor- 
mick said. 

"Tips  on  Preparing  a  Resume" 
will  be  at  12  p.m.,  Tuesday,  April  22. 
A  workshop  entitled  "How  and  Where 
to  locale  Employment"  will  be 
presented  at  12  p.m.,  Thursday.  April' 
24,  said  McCormick. 

At  12  p.m.,  Friday.  May  2.  "How 
to  Interview  for  a  Job"  will  be  the 
workshop.  The  final  session,  "The 
Job  Search:  Questions  and  Answers", 
will  be  ai  3  p.m.,  Tuesday.  May  6. 

The  workshops  are  open  to  any  in- 
terested students,  McCormick  said. 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL  50  CENTS 

per  game  during  open  bowling  liours 

10  am   to  5  p  m,  daily:  Evenings  M-W-Ih 
8pm  to  1 1 :  Fr  Sal-Sun  1 0  a.m.  to  1 2  p.m 


'^'m^' 

YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 

Fifth  Avenue 

Diner 

&  Sub  Shop 

Under  Sew  Management 

Jusi  2  blocks 
Hours:          "onh  of  campu 

9  a.m.  10  10  p.m.  daily: 

closed  Sundays 

§         50  Cents  Off!        i 
g       Any  Large  Sub       S 

g                   With  This  Coupon                  B 

^                    Coupon  expires  April  26,  l';.W                 ^h 
^Qt^N~T~KETrTo's~H"AVKNiT|;j^g^ 

Fifth  Avenue 
Just  Off  West  Fourth  Street  j 

□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 


Tapes 
Const 


□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 

a 
a 
a 
a 
□ 
□ 

Ml  Nixon  inhibited  the  FBI  inquiry 

into  Watergate  because  of  what  he  said 

□  was  concern  for  "national  security". 
In  lad,  Nixon  had  okayed  a  massive 
cover-up.       This    cover-up    included 

□  hiding  secret  dealings  with  campaign 
benefactors  and  illegal  contributions. 

□□□□□□□□□□□B 


In  the  early  morning  of  June  17. 
1972,  between  2  a.m.  and  2:30  a.m.,  a 
security  guard  in  the  Watergate 
building  in  Washington,  home  of  the 
Democratic  National  Committee  head- 
quarters, spotted  a  piece  of  tape  block- 
ing the  boll  on  a  basement  door.  He 
removed  it.  but  when  he  returned  a  few 
minutes  later,  he  found  the  lock  taped 
open  again.  He  called  the  police.  They 
came  and  found  two  more  taped  locks 
and  a  jimmied  door  leading  into  the  of- 
fices of  the  Democratic  National  Com- 
mittee. 

There  they  cornered    five  men. 
The  five  were  wearing  surgeons  rubber 
gloves,    were    weighted    down     with 
eavesdropping  equipment  and  burglary 
tools,   and   were  armed   with   mace. 
They  also  carried  53  $100  bills. 

One  of  the  burglars,  James  W. 
McCord,  Jr.,  was  making  $1,209  a 
month  as  ihe  chief  security  coordinator 
and  electronics  expert  of  the  Commit- 
tee for  the  Re-election  of  the  President 
(CRP).  He  was  promptly  fired  by 
John  N.  Mitchell,  chairman  of  the 
CRP.  Mitchell  said  the  "people  m- 
volved  were  not  operating  either  on  our 
behalf  or  with  our  consent." 

The  incident,  now  called 
Watergate,  inspired  almost  no  com- 
ment across  the  country  at  that  time. 
Most  people,  when  questioned,  either 
said  they  didn't  understand  it  or  shrug- 
ged the  whole  thing  off  as  "just 
poHlics". 

"Dirtiest"  campaign 

On  October  9.  1972,  the  Fair 
Campaign  Practices  Committee  called 
this  the  "dirtiest"  campaign  since  it 
had  started  keeping  records  18  years 
before. 

Senator  George  McGovern,  the 
Democratic  nominee  to  the  Presidency, 
said,  "Now  this  is  the  kind  of  thing 
you  expect  under  a  person  like  Hitler." 

Nixon  was  re-elected  President. 


p 

o 

L 

P 

I 

R 

1 

E 

I 

S 

C 

I 

s 

D 

A 

E 

N 

N 

D 

C 

Y 

T 

H 

Illustrations 

E 

Jerry  Rexer 

]QQQDDDE3QDDDDD 

SPOTLIGHTing  the  70s 


□  □□□□□□ 


s  finish  a  President; 
titution  is  put  to  test 


By  Leslie  Rogers 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


iowlr  kd J  f iowu 

k  f  h  1  e  1  s  I  I 

.s  d  f  n  J  e  k 

f j  cms  I 

fhsaJe 

dk-eufk 

htJkrwIkdlsl 


In  addition  to  these  transgres- 
sions, throughout  his  administration, 
Nixon  waged  feud  with  the  press. 
Newsmen  figured  prominently  in  the 
official  "enemies  list",  journalists 
phones  were  lapped,  some  were  sub- 
jected to  tax  audits,  and  CBS's  Daniel 
Schorr  was  investigated  by  the  FBI- 
allegedly  because  he  was  being  con- 
sidered for  a  White  House  job. 

But  the  people  in  the  United  States 
weren't    interested    in    these   events. 
Their  eyes  were  turned  to  a  distant 
country.    Peace  in  Vietnam  seemed  at 
hand. 

Peace  at  hand 

In  the  past,  the  invasion  of  Cam- 
bodia provoked  demonstrations 
on  college  dampuses,  including  Kent 
State  University,  where  four  students 
were  killed  by  National  Guardsmen. 
And  yet,  whenever  the  peace  talks  in 
Paris  faltered,  Nixon  would  turn  on 
the  pressure,  secretly  bombing  Cam- 
bodia. 

United  States  participation  in  the 
war  in  Vietnam  finally  ended  in 
January  of  1973.  Yet,  as  Nixon  left  of- 
fice, the  fighting  among  the  Viet- 
namese was  still  going  on. 

Back  on  the  home  front,  the  first 
of  the  President's  men  fell. 

Spiro  T.  Agnew  pleaded  no  con- 
tention to  income  tax  evasion.  He 
resigned  in  October,  1973.  He  was 
sentenced  to  3  years  probation. 

The  new  Vice-President,  Gerald 
Ford,  was  said  to  be  Nixon's  hand- 
picked  replacement,  for  Nixon  was  in 
big  trouble. 

Nixon  told  the  public  thai  he 
didn't  know  about  the  cover-up  until 
an  aide  told  home  about  it  in  March, 
1973;  nine  months  after  the  Watergate 
incident.  He  also  claimed  thai  he  had 
slowed  FBI  inquiry  only  out  of  genuine 
concern  lor  national  security,  not  to 
keep  the  lid  on  Watergate. 


Cover-up  uncovered 

On  July  24,  1974,  the  Supreme 
Court  voted  8  to  0  to  force  Nixon  to 
turn  over  the  Watergate  tapes.  Later 
that  week,  the  House  Judiciary  Com- 
mittee voted  27  10  I  1  lo  send  an  Article 
of  Impeachment  to  the  House  of 
Representatives.    Nixon  was  finished. 

The  tapes  showed  him  to  be  a  liar 
about  his  knowledge  of  a  cover-up  and 
his  reasons  for  inhibiting  the  FBI's  in- 
vestigation of  Watergate.  Nixon  knew 
of  his  staff's  involvement  six  days  after 
the  break-in,  if  not  earlier.  Nixon 
okayed  the  cover-up  at  this  time. 

Richard  M.  Nixon  resigned  the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  United 
Stales  on  August  9,  1974.  Gerald  Ford 
was  sworn  in  at  noon,  August  10,  as 
the  38th  President  of  the  United  States. 

On  Sept.  8,  1974,  less  than  a 
month  after  taking  office  Ford  pardon- 
ed Nixon.  Speculation  was  raised  that 
Ford  had  made  a  deal  with  Nixon  to 
pardon  him. 

In  the  days  before  Nixon's 
resignation.  Ford  met  with  GOP  con- 
gressional leaders.  He  also  met  with 
Nixon's  Chief-of-Staff,  Alexander  M. 
Haig.  Aides  to  Ford  said  "il  was 
understood  that  Nixon  sent  Haig  to  gel 
his  (Ford's)  assessment  on  what,  if 
any,  chance  he  (Nixon)  had  of  escaping 
impeachment  and  conviction." 

It  was  this  pardon  that  came  back 
to  haunt  Ford  two  years  later,  in  the 
1976  Presidential  election.  Ford's  op- 
ponent was  a  charismatic,  intelligent, 
anti-Washington  Democrat  named 
James  Earl  Carter.  Jr.,  or,  as  he  is 
popularly  known,  Jimmy  Carter. 

Jimmy  Carter  appeared  on  the 
scene  soon  after  Ford's  ascendence  to 
the  Presidency.  Carter's  favorite 
greeting  was,  "Hi,  I'm  Jimmy  Carter, 
and  I'm  running  for  President."  He 
was  often  met  with  the  answer.  "Presi- 
dent of  what?"  or  "Jimmy  who?" 


New  smile  on  the  scene 

Jimmy  Carter  had  served  in  the 
Navy,  was  a  nuclear  engineer,  peanut 
farmer,  and  ex-governor  of  Georgia. 
He  had  no  experience  in  Washington, 
and  yet  it  was  this  lack  of  experience 
that  helped  elect  him. 

The  country  was  sick  and  wound- 
ed by  a  President  who  had  invaded 
their  privacy,  had  broken  their  laws, 
and  yet  still  wouldn't  admit  bis  guilt. 
They  felt  uncomfortable  with  the  pre- 
sent President,  who  had  pardoned  his 
predessissor.  To  put  it  plainly,  they 
were  sick  of  Washington,  of  the  peren- 
nial incumbents  who  made  up 
Washington,  and  the  polished 
bureaucrats  who  ran  Washington. 

Carter  was  clean  of  the  Watergate 
dirt.  He  was  new.  Bui.  could  he  do  the 
job? 

Jimmy  Carter  was  elected  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States. 

Has  he  done  his  job?  So  much  has 
happened  since  then,  including  soaring 
inflation  and  unemployment;  the  Bert 
Lance  affair  (where  Carter's  financial 
advisor  was  accused  of  criminal  acts  in 
mismanaging  his  personal  money  af- 
fairs). The  resignation  of  many  aides 
and  officials,  including  the  extremely 
vocal  United  Nations  Ambassador, 
Andrew  Young.  The  Iranian  Crisis; 
the  Russian  invasion  of  Afghanistan; 
and  Carter's  most  recent  flub-up,  the 
United  States  vote  against  Israel  in  the 
United  Nations. 

It  is  up  to  the  people  to  decide 
whether  or  not  Carter  has  done  his  job. 
If  they  feel  he  has  not,  they  can  either 
choose  Senator  Edward  Kennedy  for 
the  Democratic  Nomination,  or  they 
can  vote  against  Carter  in  the  general 
election. 

And  that,  in  the  end,  is  what  our 
country  is  all  about.  We  found,  in  the 
decade  of  the  70's,  that  our  Constitu- 
tion really  works,  this  in  reference  to 
the  toppling  of  an  errant  President. 
We  can  decide  our  future  simply  by 
voting  and  making  known  our  opi- 
nions. "Public  opinion  '  has 
quickened  the  end  of  a  war,  and  the 
end  of  a  corrupt  Presidency.  The 
power  is  in  our  hands. 


□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□D 


Pane     f.  SPOTLIGHT 


WACC  Cinema  Club  presents... 

LAST  SHOW  OF  THE  SEASON 


r3« 


Klump  Academic  Center 


®^/ 


n  STEV!  BROOIt- BARBARA  HUli- LESLIE  PARRISH-ALAN  HALE 
?.  WILLIAM  W  CIlLEm,  IR  rtmae  It  eiLL  RESANE  t  RICHARD  HUFF 
>t  BILL  RERANE  OtSTRIBUTED  BY  GROUP  1    .n  BLADING  COLOR  ^G|«> 


'^/ft 


''Bambi    Meets 

CjOuZIIICI  -a  two  minute  short 
of  unparalled  educational 
importance. 

Plus 


Plus 


Who  will  survive 

and  what 
will  be 
left  01 
them? 


THE 

TEXfl! 

CHAINSAW  MASSACRE' 


What  happened  is  true. 

Now  the  motion  picture  that's  just  as  real. 


Admission:  $1.00 


IS 


_Join  us  next  year  for:  Every 
Which  Way  But  Loose 


Ar^iir'^^^^"'"" 


I»< 


The 


^eerh 


Superman        ^^^ 


fUe 


inla^'    ii 


u^er 


""^^^e 


Easy 


^. 


-^f/^ 


ATTENTION!  WACC  Cinema  Club  mil 
hold  It 's  last  meeling  lonighl  a!  6:45  p.  m.  '  'sharp ' ' 
in  Room  307,  Klump  Academic  Center.  Officers 
for  1980-81  season  will  be  elected.  New  members 
are  '  'enthusiastically ' '  welcomed. 


^        Animal  House  ^Qy 


%. 


Halloween 


-^^ 


-^/v 


<?^ 


'^e^ 


many 


^y. 


Hooper — and 

JJ others!  '^     jj 


SPOl  1  KiHT 


Graphic  club 
plans  picnic 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET)  will 
hold  their  annual  fraternity  picnic  May 
3,  at  Memorial  Park,  Williamsport.  A 
time  will  be  announced  soon,  accor- 
ding to  Roxann  M.  Roach,  vice- 
president.  The  picnic  is  held  for  frater- 
nity alumni,  present  members,  instruc- 
tors, and  their  families. 

"This  will  prove  to  be  a  fun-filled 
day  with  plenty  of  food  and 
games, "said  Miss  Roach. 

A  pledge  banquet  will  be  held  at  7 
p.m.,  April  30.  This  banquet  will 
honor  those  who  were  spring  and  fall 
1979  pledges,  spring  1980  pledges  and 
graphic  instructors.  Members  are  ask- 
ed to  turn  in  their  money  to  Darla 
Johnson,  treasurer,  by  Wednesday. 

A  fraternity  pin  was  presented  to 
Roxann  M.  Roach  for  raising  the  most 
money  from  the  club  in  the  volleyball 
marathon. 

GET  is  compiling  a  fraternity 
yearbook  for  the  1979-80  school  term. 
There  will  also  be  an  election  of  new 
officers  for  the  fall  1980  semester  at  4 
p.m.,  tomorrow,  during  the  regular 
meeting,  all  members  are  asked  to  at- 
tend, said  Miss  Roach.  New  officers 
will  be  announced  April  30  at  the  ban- 
quet. 


We  Buy  and  Sell 
M  n  ni  p  Used  Albums 

MUSHROOM 

329  Hepburn  St 
Williamsport.  Pa.       322-4451 
Open  at  11:00  a.m.  daily 
Gifts- Jewelry 


Forestry  Club 
sponsors  event 

The  annual  Woodsmen  Event, 
sponsored  by  the  Forest  Technology 
Club,  was  to  have  been  held  last  Satur- 
day. April  19  and  Sunday,  April  20,  ac- 
cording (o  Richard  A.  Reasinger,  stu- 
dent president  of  the  club. 

Students  from  six  colleges  were  to 
have  participated  in  the  14  event  con- 
test, including  four  colleges  from 
various  states  other  than  Pennsylvania. 

The  events  were  to  have  been  held 
on  the  Earth  Science  Campus  at  Allen- 
wood. 

1 1  nominees  chosen 
in  Landlord  Contest 

The  winner  of  the  Landlord  of  the 
Year  Contest  will  be  chosen  tomorrow 
by  student  members  of  the  Housing 
Committee,  according  to  Charles  J. 
Haas,  student  housing  coordinator. 

The  nominees  will  be  honored  at  a 
banquet  on  Wednesday.  April  23,  said 
Haas. 

There  are  II  nominees,  including 
Stephen  J.  Lucasi,  mayor  of 
Williamsport,  Haas  said.  The  other 
nominees  are: 

Gary  Wright,  Harry  Marshall, 
Jerry  Citio,  Helen  French,  and  Larue 
Shempp. 

Also,  Fred  Springman,  Bill  Dalton 
and  Bob  Kibler,  William  Cuebas,  Paul 
Fry,  and  Margaret  Umstead. 

The  students  on  the  Housing 
Committee  have  not  yet  decided  on 
prizes  for  the  winner  of  the  contest. 

Bookstore  has  gowns 

The  caps  and  gowns  for  all 
graduating  students  are  in  at  ihc 
Bookstore  according  to  Robert  W. 
Edler,  manager  of  the  store.  Students 
can  "pick  them  up  any  time,"  Edler 
said. 

Graduation  announcements  can 
be  picked  up  at  the  Bookstore  for  $.35 
apiece  Edler  stated. 

The  Bookstore  will  be  open  May  ' 
10  until  the  lime  of  commencement  in 
case  any  student  can't  get  their  gown  in 
before  commencement  begins. 


Ladies  hockey 
needs  members 

Women's  field  hockey  is  beginning 
10  gear  up  for  next  season,  according 
to  Marti  Bryant,  coach. 

"We're  trying  to  get  people  to  sign 
up  now,"  she  said. 

According  to  Ms.  Bryant,  no  ex- 
perience is  necessary  to  try  out  for  a 
position  on  the  squad.  The  only  re- 
quirement is  that  the  applicant  is  a  full- 
time,  female  student,"  she  added. 

The  first  meeting  of  the  season  is 
scheduled  for  Aug.  25,  in  the 
classroom  on  the  first  floor  of  the  Bar- 
do  Gym,  at  4  p.m.,  she  said. 

The  purpose  of  the  first  meeting  is 
to  see  how  many  students  are  in- 
terested, to  outline  the  procedures,  and 
to  give  some  basic  information. 

The  College  squad  plays  six  of- 
ficial games  per  season,  said  Ms. 
Bryant.  However,  the  team  is  fre- 
quently asked  to  play  with  the  team 
from  Lycoming  College. 

Last  season,  the  College  team 
played  against  the  Penn  State  Club  and 
in  a  field  hockey  tournament  with  the 
Lycoming  team,  she  said. 

There  is  also  one  scrimmage  per 
week  against  Lycoming,  she  added. 

According  to  Ms.  Bryant,  the  girls 
on  the  team  "have  a  lot  of  fun". 

Iqaqa  laziqikaqika  kwaze  kwaqh- 
qwaka  uqhoqhoqha  is  a  South  African 
tongue  twister  meaning  "The  skunk 
rolled  down  and  ruptured  its  larnyx." 


Interested  students 
can  still  join  choir 

Places  in  the  Commencement 
Choir  are"wide-open*',  according  to 
Mrs.  Lea  Frymire,  theater  company 
advisor. 

Students  are  interested  in  joining 
the  choir  can  join  any  time,  Mrs. 
Frymire  said.  The  final  rehearsal  and 
final  chance  to  join,  will  be  10  a.m., 
Saturday,  May  10,  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

The  choir  is  open  to  both 
graduating  students  and 

undergraduates,  Mrs.  Frymire  said. 

Semester  underway 

Class  34,  began  semester  3  on 
Monday,  April  14,  according  to  Louise 
D.Linn,  secretary,  practical  nursing. 

Fifty-five  student  nurses  make  up 
Class  34.  These  nurses  will  gel  clinical 
experience  at  Williamsport  Hospital, 
Divine  Providence  Hospital,  and 
Lysock  View. 

These  nurses  will  graduate  on 
August  22,1980. 


Ph.  326-41S7  or  368-2284  1301   High  St.  Winspt.,Pa.17701 


S^XvjJ^       v:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:/ 


NANCY'S  PLACE 

iijCALL  IN  ORDERS 


322-9010 


536  W.  Third  St. 
WilliamsDort,  Pa. 


Open  11  to  9  Daily 


Alumni  Buffet 


MAY  10, 1980 

KLUMP  ACADEMIC  CENTER 

CAFETERIA 

11:00  A.M. -12:45  P.M. 


Menu 


Cold  Meat  Platter 

(Baked  Virginia  Ham  &  Fresh  Cooked  Turkey) 

Sliced  Cheese  Plate  (American  &  Swiss) 


Pickled  Eggs 

Relish  Tray 

Fresh  Fruit  Salad 

Coconut  Carrot  Cake 

Hot  Coffee 


Deviled  Eggs 

Macaroni  Salad 

Rolls 

Fruit  Punch 

Hot  Tea 

Graduates  —  FREE 


Potato  Salad 

Baked  Beans 

Homemade  Cookies 

Iced  Tea 


Reservations  must  be  in  by 
April  23,  1980 


Guests  -  $4.00 


SPOTLIGHT  April     21.     1»80 


World  of  Work 

World  of  H'ork  ,s  a  regular  feature  «/  The  SPOTLIGHT  m 
cooperation  w„h  Ihe  College  PlacemenI  Office,  tnformanon  'S  s"PPlied 
direclly  hv  Ihe  PlacemenI  Office.  Inquiries  ahoul  ihe  lisimns  should  he 
directed  to  persons  or  telephone  numbers  listed  or  to  Ihe  Placement  Of- 
fice. 

CAREER  EMPLOYMENT 
Forester-Voorhees  Stale  Park,   RD  2,   Box  80.  Glen  Gardner,  N.J., 
08826    Call  201-638-4625  or  write  to  Bob  Bednat.   Live-in  position. 

Offset  Printer -Village  Press,  71  N.  8th  St..  Bangor.  Pa..  18013.  Send 
resume  to  Ann  Weber.  „     .,  „ 

Tool  Designer-Pure  Carbon  Co.,  441  Hall  Avenue,  St.  Marys,  Pa., 
15837.      Send    resumes   to   William    Northey,    personnel    manager.      Call 

Time  Study  Manager -Yorktown  Division  of  Wick,  8th  and  Walnut 
Streets,  Mifflinburg,  Pa..  18744.  Send  resumes  to  Don  Snyder.  Call 
717-966-1076.  ^     ^ 

Electronics  Tcchnicians-Mergenlhaler,  Wcllsboro,  Pa.  Send  resumes  to 
Jerry  Wolcotl.    Call  717-724-3611. 

Medical  Clerk-Muncy  Valley  Hospital,  P.O.  Box  340,  Muncy.  Pa.. 
17756.    Send  resumes  to  Miss  Joan  Barnhart. 

Nursery  Manager-Ground  keeper  for  Muncy  Valley  Hospital,  P.O.  Box 
340.  Muncy,  Pa.,  17756.  Send  resumes  to  Miss  Joan  Barnhart.  Call 
717-546-8282. 

Management  Trainee-for  hotel  industry.  Send  resume  to  General 
Manager,  Genetti  Lycoming  Hotel,  200  W.  4th  St..  Williamsporl.  Pa. 

LPN's-to  work  7  to  3  shift  full-lime  and  1 1  to  7  shift.  Call  Mrs.  Stroble, 
323-3758. 

Food  Service  Supervisor-Write  or  call  M.W.  Wood,  Inc..  3320  Hamilton 
Blvd.,  Allentown,  Pa.,  18103.    Phone  215-435-6751. 

Auto  Service  coordinator-Some  auto  experience,  customer  relations,  ac- 
counting, merchandising  service,  time  control  and  control  of  repair  orders. 
Send  resume  to  Mrs.  Barr,  Barr  Motors,  1821  E.  Third  St.,  Williamsporl.  Pa. 

Welders-Car-Mak,  Inc.,  P.O.  Box  392,  Ninth  and  Oak  Streets,  Berwick, 
Pa.,  18603. 

PART-TIME  JOBS 

Part-time  bank  teller.  Send  resume  to  Personnel  Department,  P.O  Box 
308.  Williamsporl.  Pa.  17701. 

Loader  for  part-time  at  Portion  Pack,  South  Williamsporl.  See  Tom 
Burganoski. 

Waiter  waitresses  for  banquets  and  restaurant,  dishwashers,  salaa 
preparation' persons,  and  setup  persons,  Genetti  Lycoming,  Williamsporl,  Pa. 

Host  or  hostess  and  cook  for  Perkins  Pancake  House.  Apply  445  River 
Ave.,  Williamsporl,  Pa.  ,„^,  ,„    ..u 

Counter  and  kitchen  help  wanted  at  Mama  G's  Pizza.  Apply  1967  W.  4th 
St.,  Williamsporl,  Pa.  j  o      .. 

Seamstress  wanted.  Mary  Usmer  Specially  Shop,  190  Broad  St.,  Mon- 
toursville.  Pa.    Apply  in  person. 

RECRUITING  ON  CAMPUS 

Tomorrow-Bennett  Die  and  Tool  CO.,  New  York.  Recruiting  for 
machinists.  Group  meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Wednesday-F.W.  Woolworth  recruiting  for  management  trainees. 

Wednesday-DuPont,  Towanda,  Pa.,  recruiting  for  electronic  and  elec- 
trical technicians.  Group  meeting  at  9  a.m.  in  Bardo  Gym  classroom,  first 
floor. 

Thursday-Bechlel  Corp.,  Gatersburg.  Maryland,  recruiting  for  ar- 
chitects.   Group  meeting  at  9  a.m.,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Friday-Huwlett  and  Packard,  Avondale,  Pa.,  will  recruit  for 
machinists. 


New  officers  elected 
during  PBL  banquet 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


MOVIE 

Tonight,  7:30  p.m.,  Klump  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  "The  Texas 
Chainsaw  Massacre",  "The  Giant  Spider  Invasion",  and  "Bambi  Meets  God- 
zilla", $1  Admission. 

SPECIAL  EVENTS 
Wednesday,  6  p.m.,  Klump  Academic  Center  cafeteria.  Senior  Recognition 
Banquet. 

Friday,  Spring  Recognition  Banquet. 

MEETINGS 
Phi   Beta  Lambda.   Room   302,   Klump  Academic  Center,   3:45   p.m. 
Wednesday. 

ICC,  Room  132,  Klump  Academic  Center,  4  p.m.  Thursday. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  installation  of  officers,  Genetti  Lycoming,  Friday. 

SPORTS 
Tuesday,  Tennis  vs.  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  home,  1 
p.m. 

Thursday,  Tennis  vs.  Keystone  Junior  College,  home,  1  p.m. 
Saturday.  Tennis  vs.  Northampton  County  Area  Community  College, 
home,  12  noon. 

DANCE 
Lair,  Wednesday,  8  p.m.  to  12  p.m..  Free  admission.    Ernie  Cash  Band 
wilt  provide  country  and  rock  music. 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  held  its 
Second  Annual  Installation  Banquet 
lasl  Wednesday,  April  16,  according  10 
Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  professor 
of  business  administration.  The  ban- 
quet was  served  in  the  Kings  Motel, 
South  Williamsporl,  he  said. 

Andy  W.  Wenlz,  president  of 
PBL  presided  over  the  installation 
when   the    1980-81    officers   were  ap- 

Athletes 
honored 

Coaches  presented  awards  to  their 
athletes  Wednesday  evening  at  the  All 
Sports  Banquet  held  in  the  Ascension 
Church  School  Hall.  Dr.  William 
Homisak.  assistant  to  the  president, 
was  the  master  of  ceremonies. 

Besides  the  usual  letter,  jacket, 
and  Most  Valuable  Player  (MVP) 
awards,  Paula  M.  DiMarco  was  award- 
ed a  trophy  for  "outstanding  and 
unselfish  service  to  the  College."  Miss 
DiMarco  was  the  first  female  trainer 
for  men's  athletic  team,  Thomas  E. 
Vargo  pointed  out  as  he  presented  her 
with  the  award. 

MVP  Awards  were  presented  in  all 
sports  except  for  tennis.  Harry  C. 
Specht.  coach,  said  one  will  be  chosen 
at  the  end  of  the  season.  Receiving  a 
letter  in  tennis  was  Leroy  L.  Baer. 
Players  who  earned  jackets  that  will  be 
awarded  later  were  David  A.  Hurd, 
Franklin  K.  Noll,  and  David  M.  Stop- 
per. 

Cross  country  coach  Dave 
Houseknecht  selected  Robert  W. 
Johnson  as  Most  Valuable  Player  for 
his  squad.  Len  R.  Maquire  was  award- 
ed a  letter. 

Mrs.  Kathryn  Revello,  women's 
basketball  coach,  presented  two  MVP 
awards.  Alice  Kennedy  received  the 
award  for  the  best  first -year  player. 
Toni  L.  Mabie  was  acknowledged  for 
her  "vast  improvements"  in  her  two 
seasons. 

Randy  L.  Jones  was  awarded  the 
Mr.  Hustle  Award  by  Coach  Larry 
Manikowski  for  out-rebounding  many 
taller  opponents.  Point  guard  Len  R. 
Maquire  was  named  MVP  for  his  abili- 
ty to  run  the  team  throughout  the  year. 
Dr.  Dwight  Wallz.  golf  coach, 
presented  Franklin  K.  Noll  with  a  let- 
ter. James  R.  Tamblyn  was  selected  as 
MVP  but  was  unable  to  attend  due  to 
work. 

Three  women  received  all- 
conference  certificated  for  their  field 
hockey  play  during  the  1979  season. 

These  were  Alice  Kennedy,  Janet 
Kreamer,  and  Cathy  J.  Leitzel.  Miss 
Kreamer  was  chosen  first-year  MVP  by 
Coach  Marti  Bryant.  Donna  L. 
Elsasser  was  selected  second-year 
MVP. 

Max  Wasson,  wrestling  coach, 
presented  Anthony  A.  Tessitore  with 
the  first-year  MVP  award.  Second- 
year  honors  went  to  Eric  S.  Haser  who 
came  back  from  a  shoulder  separation 
after  the  winter  break  to  post  an  11-2 
record. 

Coach  Wasson  said  the  decision 
was  hard  and  added,  "1  wish  I  didn't 
have  to  make  it." 

Thomas  S.  Husler.  who  finished 
the  season  undefeated,  was  a  close  se- 
cond for  the  award,  he  indicated. 


pointed  positions.  The  officers  includ- 
ed Douglas  C.  Savidge.  president; 
Joette  M.  Siertle,  vice  president;  Lori 
A.  Shoemaker,  secretary  and  Michael 
W.  Charvat,  treasurer. 

Also.  Kathy  A.  Berleth.  cor- 
responding secretary;  Gwen  L.  Ber- 
field.  public  relations;  Pamela  H.  Hill, 
membership  and  conference  coor- 
dinator; Marc  L.  Knight  and  Lori  L. 
Carl  as  administrative  aids. 

Presentations  were  also  made  to 
current  officers  during  the  banquet,  he 
said.  Remarks  were  presented  by 
Goldfeder. 

Guests  of  honor  included  Dr. 
Donald  B.  Bergerstock.  division  direc- 
tor of  business  and  computer  science 
an'd  Ms.  Patricia  J.  Shoff,  faculty 
member. 

Special  presentations  were  award- 
ed to  Goldfeder  and  Thomas  C. 
Leitzel,  assistant  advisor  of  PBL. 

A  dance  followed  the  banquet. 

Tennis  squad 
splits  matches 

The  Wildcat  tennis  squad  split 
their  first  two  matches  of  the  season, 
according  to  Harry  C.  Specht.  tennis 
coach.  The  next  match  will  be  at  1  p.m. 
Tuesday  at  Memorial  Park. 

The  Wildcats  blanked  the  Com- 
munity College  of  Philadelphia  9-0 
after  dropping  their  opener  by  a  score 
of  8-1  to  Delaware  County  Community 
College. 

The  doubles  team  of  Brad  Minnier 
and  Franklin  K.  Noll  scored  the  only 
point  in  the  Delaware  match  with  a  6-2. 
6-4  victory  over  their  opponents.  Noll 
also  extended  his  singles  opponent  into 
a  third  set  before  losing  6-3,  6-7,  4-6. 
Scott  A.  Miller  also  forced  a  third  set 
when  he  won  the  second  set  by  a  6-4 
score  after  losing  the  opening  set  by  the 
same  score.  Miller  lost  the  third  set 
7-6, 

In  the  shutout  of  Philadelphia, 
number  one  player  David  M.  Stopper 
won  6-2.  4-6.  7-5.  Leroy  L.  Baer, 
David  A.  Hurd.  Minnier,  Noll,  and 
Lester  W.  Oakes  all  won  in  two  sets. 

In  doubles  competition.  Baer  and 
Minnier  were  awarded  a  forfeit  while 
Hurd  and  Roy  A.  Fern  defeated  their 
opponents  in  three  sets.  Oakes  and 
Noll  also  teamed  up  to  down  their  op- 
ponents  in  three  sets.  


Play 

Lucky  Numbers 

^""^Cilio's 
College 
Corner 

ReslaurantfSnack  Bar 

W'/A"... 
Whole  Sub  &  Med.  Drink 
(Drawing  on  Friday) 
SPECIAL  THIS  WEEK 
Whole 
Cheeseburger  Sub 
$2.40 
Reg.  Price  $2.60 
Save  20  cents 
Tax  Included 


The  Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 


Monday,  April  28,  1980 
Vol.  15,  No.  30 


gPBtftlJBCJtf 


Commencement 
Rehearsal 
Wednesday 

Graduates,  fear  not! 

Your  many  queries  of 
"What  am  I  supposed  to 
do?"  concerning  com- 
mencement exercises  have 
been  heard! 

A  commencement 
rehearsal  is  scheduled  for 
this  Wednesday  at  3:30 
p.m.  in  the  Bardo  Gym- 
nasium. 

Caps  and  gowns  are 
not  needed  for  the  rehear- 
sal. 


Voting  begins  today 


DOICLAS  E.  RESSEQl'IE 


LaRue  C.  Shempp  recognized 
as  'Landlord  of  the  Year' 


LaRue  C.  Shempp  of  325 
Lundy  Dr.,  has  been  chosen 
Landlord  of  the  Year. 

Shempp  was  honored  at  a 
banquet  at  6  p.m.  last  Wednes- 
day evening.  The  banquet,  which 
was  held  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center  cafeteria,  was  sponsored 
by  the  Student  Government 
Association  (SGA). 

Shempp  was  presented  a  cer- 
tificate of  merit  and  a  gift  cer- 
tificate. At  the  banquet,  he 
spol<e  briefly,  thanking  the  Stu- 
dent Government  Association 
and  the  students  of  the  College  in 
general.  He  then  returned  the 
gift  certificate,  suggesting  that 
SGA  return  it  to  their  fund  to  be 
used  for  students. 

The  property  which  Shempp 
owns,  924  West  Third  Street,  was 
his  home  for  58  years.  He  resided 
there  with  his  wife.  Marie,  and 
their  three  daughters. 

Students  have  occupied  the 
second  floor  of  his  home  since 
1962.  said  Shempp. 

Presently,  there  are  14  to  18 
students  living  there  per  semester, 
said  Shempp. 

Shempp  retired  from  the 
Lycoming  Board  of  Assistance  in 


1974,     after     34     years     as     a 
caseworker. 

Shempp  added  that  in  his 
spare  time  he  enjoys  collecting 
model  trains.  His  collection  is 
one  of  the  top  10  in  the  United 
States  and  contains  trains  dating 
back  to  1910.  It  also  includes  314 
complete  model  train  sets,  he  ex- 
plained. 


BRENDA  C.  STRINGER 


Bookstore  has  gowns 

The  caps  and  gowns  are  still  in  at 
the  bookstore,  according  to  Robert  W. 
Edler,  manager.  They  can  be  picked 
up  during  regular  bookstore  hours  or 
the  morning  of  commencement,  he 
said. 

"There  are  a  few  commencement 
announcements  left,"  Edler  added. 

Edler  also  said  a  few  of  the  class 
rings  are  in,  however  some  of  the  rings 
won't  be  in  until  after  graduation. 


CTORCF  f.  STKPHKiNS 


SGA  officers 
to  be  elected 
this  week 

By  Jack  Rickert 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

Elections  for  officers  of  the 
Student  Government  Association 
(SGA)  will  be  conducted  today, 
tomorrow  and  Wednesday. 

Elections  will  take  place  in 
Klump  Academic  Center  today 
and  tomorrow,  from  9  a.m.  to  5 
p.m.,  and  Wednesday  from  II 
a.m.  to  2  p.m.,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti.  student  ac- 
tivities assistant. 

Students  at  the  Earth  Science 
Division  may  vote  on  Wednesday 
from  9  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  and  avia- 
tion students  can  vote  on 
Wednesday  from  12:30  p.m.  to 
1:30  p.m..  added  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 
iPUaae  turn  to  Page  61 

jAl  kfll  The  winner  of  the  Landlord  of 
■he  Year  Conle«t,  LaRue  C.  Shempp, 
po^es  with  sludent-tenanls:  In  front  Is 
George  F.  Stephens.  In  second  row,  Jody 
Bailey,  broadcasting;  Robert  E.  Irwin, 
carpentry  construction;  James  S.  Luther, 
mechanical  drawing.  In  third  row.  Bud 
A.  Kuhn,  carpentry  and  building 
technologies;  Scolt  A.  Berger,  civil 
engineering  technologies;  Nick  J. 
FoMmer.  eleclrical  construction;  Fred  R. 
Skeath.  electrical  technologies,  and  James 
C.     Melzger,    electrical     technologies^. 


Monday,  April  28,  1980 


=VIEWPOINT= 


Editorial 


Change:  a  part  of  life 

Dr  William  H  Feddersen  has  been  in- 
slfumenlal  in  many  improvemenis  at  the  College 
since  his  acceptance  of  the  position  of  president  in 
1974 

The  most  visable  of  these  changes  is  the 
ongoing  conslfuclion  which  is  part  of  Stage  One  of 
Phase  I  of  the  current  building  program. 

The  College  has  changed  since  Dr  Fed- 
dersen took  office  Change  is  a  vital  part  of  life-  It 
is  basic  to  the  institutional  life  ol  a  college  if  a  col- 
lege is  to  remain  responsive  to  the  needs  of 
students,  faculty,  staff,  and  the  community  It 
serves. 

Dr  Feddersen's  departure  is  another  change 
It  gives  the  College  the  opportunity  of  seeking  dif- 
ferent leadership,  fresh  input 

While  we  continue  to  appreciate  what  Dr 
Feddersen  has  done  during  his  years  of  service  to 
the  College,  we  can  also  look  forward  to  more 
growth  and  change  as  a  normal  and  natural  part  of 
a  vital  institution 


Television  review 

'That's  Incredible' 
is  a  sickening  show 

By  Larry  G.  Steele 
01  Tho  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

The  new  show.  "Thai's  Incredible",  is  really 
incredible.  And  I  don't  see  how  it  has  lasted  this 
long. 

The  show  appears  to  be  a  spin-off  of  "Real 
People",  but  only  in  a  sicker  form.  The  stunts 
the  people  do  just  to  get  on  the  show  are  incredi- 
ble -  but  some  of  them  are  also  insane' 

Really,  why  would  anyone  be  supported  from 
a  bridge  by  a  giant  rubber  band''  Or.  how  much 
sense,  or  lack  of  sense,  does  it  lake  to  go  around 
catching  arrows  by  hand? 

Fran  Tarkenlon.  once  a  favorite  of  mine,  has 
been  destroyed  by  taking  part  in  this  sickening 
program  And  John  Davidson  never  was  one  ol 
my  favorite  hosts  I  do  enjoy  Cathy  Lee  Crosby, 
but  only  for  apparent  reasons 

I  can  only  hope  that  the  sponsors  of  this  show 
suggest  to  the  producers  to  drop  it  and  try  again. 


THE  SPOTLIGHT 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
weekly  throughout  the  academic  year, 
except  tor  college  vacations,  by  |Out 
nalism  and  other  interested  students 
OHice  Room  7,  Klump  Academic 
Center.  Telephone  (71 7) 
326-3761,  Extension  221 

The  Staff 

Managing  Editor 

John  F   Zelewicz 

FealursB  and 

Editorial  Page  Edltoi 

Jan  L   Daniel 

Sports  Editor 

hilollie  S   Zelewicz 

Chlel  Photographer 

Timothy  A    Toth 

Advertising  Representative 

and  Senior  Staff  Reporter 

Gail  M    Thompson 

Production  Team  This  Issue: 

Jacqueline  Cardene,  supervisor; 

John  RIckert.  Brian  Rippey. 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J  Catdene 
Lana  M  Apker 
Robert  J  Allen 
John  L  Rickerl 
Brian  M  Rippey 
Leslie  M  Rogers 
liudv  M  Shively 
Cindy  M  Snook 
Larry  G  Steele 
Robert  E  Thomas 
Faculty  Advisor 
Anthony  N   Cillo 


Everyone 

makes 

a  difference! 

Vote! 


Over  3  million 
'problem  drinkers' 

The  National  Institute  on  Alcohol  Abuse  and 
Alcoholism  notes  that  more  than  3  million  junior 
and  senior  high  school  students  in  the  United 
Stales  are  "problem  drinkers  "  who  have  had  run- 
ins  with  their  teachers  or  the  police  as  a  result  of 
imbibing. 

They  represent  better  than  one  third  of  all 
Americans  classified  as  alcoholics,  according  to 
the  Institute. 

The  solution,  according  to  the  National 
Parent-Teacher  Association,  is  preventive  educa- 
tion. 

Individuals  or  organizations  interested  in  ob- 
taining more  information  about  the  PTA's  pro- 
grams and  materials  may  write: 

Alcohol  Education.  National  PTA.  700  N, 
Rush  St..  Chicago.  III.    60611 


YOU  CARING  FOR  YOU:  Hypoglycemia  may  be  villain 

You  Caring  lot  you  is  written  by  dietetic  technician  students  ol  Itie  College  and  published  by  The  SPOTLIGHT  as  a 
campus  service    Opinions  expressed  are  the  writer's  and  may  o(  may  not  relied  the  opinions  ol  the  newspaper 
By  Janet  Confer 

Have  you  punched  someone  lateV  Do  you  feel  hasseled  by  others''  Are  you  having  trou- 
ble studying  for  a  test  -  or  are  you  jusi  plain  tired  and  feeling  depressed' 

If  any  of  the  above  apply  to  you.  you  may  be  suffering  from  a  widespread  but  seldome 
recognized  condition  known  as  low  blood  sugar,  hypoglycemia,  or  hyperinsulin.  depending  on 
what  area  of  the  country  you  are  living  in 

More  common  than  realized 

"It's  more  common  than  anyone  would  expect."  says  Dr  David  Hawkins,  of  North  Nassau 
(viental  Health  Center.  Long  Island.  NY  Hypoglycemics  report  a  bewildering  array  of  symp- 
toms -  including  blurred  vision,  sensitivity  to  noise,  depression,  impotence,  alcoholism,  inability 
10  concentrate,  behavior  problems,  and  failure  to  get  along  with  others  These  symptoms  lead 
many  directly  lo  a  psychiatrist. 

Dr  E  Ivt,  Abrahamson,  author  of  "Body.  Mind,  and  Sugar",  tested  700  people  labelled 
"mildly  neurotic".  600  had  low  blood  sugar  Also  tested  were  1 44  children  diagnosed  as  learn- 
ing disabled;  78  percent  had  low  blood  sugar 

How  many  people  suffer  from  low  blood  sugar'  Reliable  statistics  aren't  available 
because,  lor  one  thing,  the  medical  profession  believes  it  is  overdiagnosed  But  try  to  explain 
this  10  a  man  who  has  lost  his  lOb  from  chronic  fatigue,  disorienlation.  and  erratic  behavior  or  lo 
another  who  has  had  uncontrollable  fits  of  temper,  or  to  a  woman  who  has  spent  days  staring  at 
a  wall  crying.  All  were  diagnosed  as  hypoglycemic  and  all  returned  to  normal  lives  by  eating 
the  proper  diet. 

Can't  handle  sugar  properly 

While  everyone  needs  sugar  for  energy,  the  hypoglycemic's  genetic  makeup  prevents  him 
from  handling  sugar  properly.  When  a  normal  person  eats  a  candy  bar  or  a  piece  of  cake,  the 
sugar  is  converted  into  a  simple  sugar  called  glucose  for  storage  in  the  liver  to  be  used  when 
needed. 

As  the  sugar  is  eaten,  the  pancreas  -  acting  much  like  a  thermostat  -  produces  insulin, 
which  regulates  the  body's  blood  sugar  level  When  a  hypoglycemic  eats  candy  or  cake,  the 
pancreas  secretes  more  insulin  than  it  should  This  causes  a  drop  in  blood  sugar  levels  in  the 
body,  including  areas  of  the  brain.  This  upset  in  the  brain's  metabolism  creates  many  of  the 
bizarre  symptoms  associated  with  hypoglycemia 

Hypoglycemics  often  see  their  lives  as  a  series  of  roller-coaster  highs  and  lows.  The  mid- 
morning  coffee  break  with  a  sweet  roll  produces  a  sudden  increase  in  blood  sugar,  bring  a  burst 
of  energy  But  within  hours,  the  opposite  effect  occurs  They  become  lethargic  and  tired.  As 
their  blood  sugar  levels  drop,  even  the  simplest  of  tasks  can  lake  hours  to  perform,  accom- 
panied by  disorientation  and  depression. 

Problem  can  be  controlled 

Hypoglycemics  can  control  their  problem  once  they  know  what  it  is.  They  should  avoid 
refined  sugars,  cigarets,  and  regular  coffee  Such  things  can  start  them  on  their  roller-coaster. 
Their  diet  should  consist  of  protein-rich  foods  such  as  meat,  dairy  products,  nuts.  fats,  unrefined 
sugars  found  in  fruits  and  vegetables,  whole  wheat  breads,  cereals 

This  food  should  be  eaten  in  five  to  six  evenly  spaced  meals  throughout  the  day.  This  high 
protein  low  sugar  eating  pattern  regulates  the  blood  sugar  level  naturally,  providing  both  brain 
and  body  with  the  necessary  energy  needed  for  optimal  functioning 
it  may  be  the  diet! 

The  next  time  you  are  tired,  depressed,  or  feel  hasseled.  it  may  not  be  where  you  are  or 
what  you  are  doing  -  but.  it  may  be  your  diet' 

I  dare  you  to  check  your  mental  attitude  with  your  eating  pattern  Jot  down  your  mental 
feelings  throughout  the  day  when  you  ate  very  little  or  had  more  sweet  foods  than  protein 
foods  Tomorrow,  eat  a  breakfast  of  protein  (cereal  and  milk),  have  cheese  or  peanut  butler 
and  crackers  two  to  three  hours  later  Eat  a  lunch  of  hamburger  and  fruit  luice  or  milk  Two  lo 
three  hours  later,  have  milk,  cheese  or  peanut  butter  Eat  a  good  supper  with  meat,  vegetable, 
and  salad,  and  a  small  tuna  salad  sandwich  for  bedtime  snack. 

Now  re-evaluate  your  feelings  lor  the  two  days 

Happiness  is  not  accidental  Happiness  comes  when  we  learn  how  to  accept  our  respon- 
sibilities tor  our  physical  bodies  as  well  as  Ihe  mental  relationships  we  have  with  others 


Director  hired 
at  the  College 

R.  Dean  Foster  came  to  the  Col- 
lege April  7,  and  is  currently  director 
of  Developmental  Studies  here.  Foster 
now  works  part-time  as  director,  but 
will  be  full-lime  as  of  May  19.  he  said. 

Foster,  a  resident  of  Reading,  was 
the  coordinator  of  Developmental 
Studies  at  Reading  Area  Community 
College  for  the  past  two  years.  Accor- 
ding to  Foster  he,  his  wife  and 
daughter  will  be  moving  to 
Williamsport  this  summer. 

One  of  Foster's  responsibilities  as 
director  is  ACT  101,  a  special  program 
at  the  College  for  students  who  request 
tutoring  and  counseling.  One  of  70 
ACT  101 -funded  schools  in  the  stale, 
the  college  has  a  present  ACT  enroll- 
ment of  about  50  students,  Foster  said. 
Foster  said. 

Foster  said  he  is  orienting  himself 
into  the  system  of  Developmental 
Studies  at  the  College,  and  said  he  ' 
would  like  to  make  students  more 
aware  of  the  program.  He  also  said  he 
would  like  to  sec  more  feedback  from 
the  students  using  the  counseling, 
tutoring,  and  reading  lab  facilities  in 
coming  semesters;  and  he  expects 
about  80  students  to  use  these  facilities 
in  the  Fall  1980  term. 

Foster  said  students  wanting  more 
information  on  ACT  101,  or  the 
Developmental  Studies  programs,  may 
reach  him  at  Ext.  266,  or  in  the  Rishel 
Building,  Unit  14. 

Foster  has  a  Bachelor's  Degree  in 
Social  Psychology  and  a  Master's 
Degree  in  Education.  He  said  he  is 
looking  forward  to  moving  the 
Developmental  Studies  facilities  into 
the  new  building  by  Bardo  Gym  and 
added  thai  bringing  all  facilities  of 
Developmental  Studies  together  in  one 
building  will  not  only  be  convenient  for 
the  workers,  but  also  bring  the  pro- 
grams closer  to  the  students. 


:¥:¥ft::S5¥:WftS¥SJS::iSSffl¥:¥::S¥:¥5S5:« 

Female 
trainer 
pioneer 
in  field 


By  Brian  Rippey 
of  the  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


SPOTLIGHT  Monday,  April  28, 1980  '3 


Paula  M.  DiMarco  became  the  first  female  trainer  for  a  men's  team  at  the 
College  last  winter.  Miss  DiMarco  was  trainer  for  the  Wildcat  wrestling  this 
past  season. 

A  general  studies  student  from  Williamsport,  Miss  DiMarco  approached 
Thomas  E.  Vargo  with  the  idea  a  few  weeks  before  the  start  of  the  season  She 
said  Vargo  wondered  if  she  could  handle  it  and  she  pointed  to  two  years  of  ex- 
perience in  athletic  medicine  at  Williamsport  High  School. 

Vargo  then  had  to  get  it  approved  by  Dean  David  M.  Heiney  and  Max  G 
Wasson,  wrestling  coach. 

"At  first  they  (the  wrestlers)  didn't  confide  in  me  until  a  serious  injury 
occurred.    After  that  they  put  pretty  much  trust  in  me,"  she  said. 

Due  to  muscle  problems  in  her  legs.  Miss  DiMarco  was  unable  to  par- 
ticipate in  basketball  as  she  had  done  at  Williamsport  High.  But  she  liked 
sports  and  wanted  to  stay  close  to  them. 

She  is  also  very  interested  in  the  medical  field,  she  indicated. 

"So  I  combined  them  both  and  got  into  athletic  medicine,"  she  said. 

Next  fall  Miss  DiMarco  plans  to  attend  Slippery  Rock  State  College  to 
major  in  athletic  Dwdicine. 

"Besides  wrestling  and  basketball.  Miss  DiMarco  is  also  interested  in 
hang  gliding  occasionally  and  playing  racquet  ball.  She  added,"!  love  camp- 
ing and  anything  that  involves  being  outside." 


Tennis  squad  ups  record  to  3-1 

By  Brian  Rippey,  or  The  spotlight  surr 
The  Wildcat  tennis  squad  raised  its  record  to  3-1  with  two  victories  last  week.  On  Tuesday  it  defeated  Mon- 
tgomery County  Community  College  6-3  before  shutting  out  Keystone  Junior  College  9-0  on  Thursday 

In  singles  play  Thursday,  David  M.  Stopper  whipped  Jon  Davis  6-1,  6-0.  Leroy  L.  Baer  downed  Rich  Plen- 
ninger  6-0,  7-5,  and  David  A.  Hurd  defeated  Bill  Outman  6-4,  6-2. 

Also,  Scott  A.  Miller  edged  Pat  James  by  identical  6-4  scores.  Brad  Minnier  aced  Sean  Curran  6-0  6-0  and 
Franklin  K.  Noll  beat  Mike  Hardie  6-4,  6-0. 

In  doubles  competition  Thursday,  Stopper  and  Baer  teamed  up  to  defeat  Plenninger  and  Outman  by  two 
6-2  scores.  Hurd  and  Minnier  served  a  6-4,  6-1  loss  to  Davis  and  Curran,  and  Noll  and  Lester  W.  Oakes  drubbed 
Hardie  and  Brown  6-1,  6-1, 

Hurd  and  Minnier  raised  their  records  to  3-1  while  Noll  and  Miller  upper  their  slates  to  2-1.  Stopper  and 
Baer  own  2-2  marks  and  Oakes  has  one  victory  in  his  lone  singles  match. 

In  Tuesday's  victory  over  Montgomery  County  Community  College,  Hurd  blitzed  Peter  Ross  6-0,  6-0 
Miller  downed  Ron  Botts  6-4.  6-1,  Minnier  defeated  Jack  Pitlinger  6-1,  6-3,  and  Noll  received  a  forfeit. 

Winning  for  MCCC  was  Reeves  Miller,  a  6-2,  3-6,  6-2  winner  over  Stopper,  and  Randy  Williams,  a  6-2  6-3 
winner  over  Baer.  ,  ,  '  ' 

In  doubles  play.  Miller  and  Williams  of  MCCC  defeated  Minnier  and  Noll  6-4,  6-3  while  Oakes  and  Roy  A 
Fern  edged  Pittinger  and  Ross  7-5.  4-6,  7-6,  winning  the  tie  breaker  5-1.  Hurd  and  Miller  were  awarded  a  forfeit. 
Last  Saturday's  match  against  Northampton  County  Community  College  was  rescheduled  for  this  Friday  at 
Memorial  Park.  The  Wildcat  netters  will  also  be  in  action  tomorrow  when  they  host  Bucks  County  Community 
College  and  Saturday  when  they  will  participate  in  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania  Community  College  Athletic  Con- 
ference Tournament  at  Northampton. 


Whaddya'  Say. . .? 

What  are  your  plans 
after  school  is  out  this  spring? 


Interviews  and  photos 
by  Brian  Rippey,  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  staff 


Question  asked  of  automotive  technicians 
in  George  H    Parkes  Building 


Kevin  J.  Crawford,  of  Athens:  "Move  to  Arizona 
where  my  parents  live  and  go  job  hunting  " 

Thomas  H.  Wheeler,  of  Endicott.  N.Y  :  "Pay  otf 
school  and  settle  for  the  highest  paying  job  I  can 
find," 

Barry  E  Rodabaugh,  of  Flemington:  "Pursue  a 
high  paying  career  in  the  field  of  automotive 
technology," 

William  D,  Hooker,  of  Montoursville:  "Work  full- 
time  in  my  own  garage  " 

Jeffrey  J,  Nogan.  of  Clarks  Summit:  "Go  to  Buf- 
falo to  sell  swimming  pools," 

Michael  F,  Sena,  of  Towanda:  "Go  to  work  in  a 
garage  " 


Barry  E.  Rodabaugh  Thomas  H.  Wheeler 


Kevin  J.  Crawford 


Monday.  April  28.  1980 


Vote 
Slate 
No.  1 


George  Stephens 
President 

David  IVIitchell 
Vice  President 

Kathy  Maiolo 
Treasurer 


m 


We  plan 

to  change  the  SGA 

and  get  more  of  the  students 

interested  in  the  activities 

of  the  school... 

...and,  to  try  to  get  the 
Recreation  Center 

open  longer 
and  to  make  it  better... 

and,  to  try  to  get 

more  activities 

at  night  and  in  the  day  time... 

We  will  take  all  suggestions 

from  students 

about  things  they  would  like 

changed 
and  act  upon  each  one. 


Vote  Slate  No.  1! 


'Focus  on  good  things'  needed 
says  Secretary  of  Education 
during  campus  visit  April  1 7 


"My  job  is  lo  focus  on  Ihe  good 
ihings  happening  in  our  schooU,"  said 
Secretary  of  Education  Robert  G. 
Scanlon  during  his  visit  here  Thursday. 
April  17. 

Secretary  Scanlon  visits  Com- 
monwealth school  districts  two  days  a 
week.  This  was  the  first  lime  he  had 
visited  ihe  Williamsport  schools,  he 
said. 

According  to  Secretary  Scanlon. 
one  of  the  major  problems  in  school 
districts  is  student  apathy.  He  also  said 
bad  press  on  unpleasant  events  in 
schools  have  plagued  the  districts. 
"Our  job  is  to  be  sure  good  schools  gel 
good  press,"  he  said. 

Secretary  Scanlon  said  he  collects 
various  tests  from  the  school  districts 
he  visits.  When  someone  comes  to  his 
office  and  complains  about  the  quality 
of  education.  "I  offer  them  one  of  the 
tests  to  take."  he  said. 

The  luncheon  meeting,  held  at 
noon,  was  attended  by  22,  including 
administration,  faculty,  five  students, 
and  two  members  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Roger  Maddock  and  Ward 
Spencer. 

Secretary  Scanlon  said  he  has 
issued  an  open  invitation  to  all  General 
Assembly  members  to  accompany  him 
on  his  visits  to  the  schools.  He  said  he 
feels  it  is  a  good  way  to  see  first-hand 
how  badly  school  districts  need  extra 
funding. 


The  General  Assembly  ap- 
propriates 98  percent  of  all  state  money 
(0  eduaciion,  approximately  $3.2 
billion  per  year,  the  Secretary  said. 

Referring  to  President 
Feddersen's  recent  announcement  of 
resignation.  Secretary  Scanlon  said, 
"I'm  saddened  by  the  resignation. 
He's  articulate,  demanding,  and  he 
makes  you  listen." 

Secretary  Scanlon  went  on  to  say, 
"There  has  been  a  historical  split  bet- 
ween vocational  schools  and  communi- 
ty colleges,  except  here,  where  you  do 
it  all." 

Secretary  Scanlon  has  served  as 
Secretary  of  Education  in  Penn- 
sylvania since  February  1979.  He  has 
served  on  a  variety  of  boards  and  com- 
mittees, including  the  CEDaR  program 
(Council  for  Educational  Development 
and  Research).  The  Secretary  has  also 
authored  various  publications, 
research  reports  and  papers. 

The  luncheon  featured  a  slide 
presentation,  "A  College  for  All  Peo- 
ple". The  presentation  outlines  the 
purpose  of  the  College,  the  coverage 
area,  and  the  variety  of  programs  of- 
fered here. 

Food  Service  Management 
students  served  (he  luncheon,  which 
consisted  of  Gaspacco,  a  Mexican 
tomato  dish.  Beef  Stroganoff,  and 
Pear  ice  with  strawberries. 


The  Palace  makes  finals 


The  Palace  has  reached  the  linals 
In  Ihe  inlramural  soflball  lournamenl. 
Lasi  Wednesday.  Ihe  team  defeated  Ihe 
Swamp  Rats  and  Seldom  Strait  to  gain 
the  berth  in  the  championship  game  lo 
he  played  tomorrow  afternoon  behind 
Unh  6. 

Five  learns  were  still  alive  before 
Thursday's  action  which  was  lo  narrow 
Ihe  Tuesday  and  Thursday  Division  to 
two  learns. 

Big  |>ame  today 

The  division  championship  game 
is  to  be  played  today  at  4:30  p.m.,  ac- 
cording 10  Thomas  G.  Gray,  director 
of  intramural  activities. 

Sir  Timber  was  to  have  met  Civil 
Tech  with  Ihe  winner  advancing  to  the 
semifinal  round.  Franchise  was 
awaiting  the  winner  of  that  contest 
while  Ihe  Road  Trippers  and  Frank's 
Bar  &  Grill  played  for  Ihe  other  final 
spot. 

Team  members  of  Ihe  Monday  and 
Wednesday  Division  champion  Palace 
squad  are: 

Electrical  technology  students 
Paul  W.  Syzdek.  Mark  S.  Fronheiser, 
and  Gerard  A.  Pipetti;  construction 
caipenty  students  Stanley  J. 
Rutkowski  and  Steven  L.  Beck. 


Also,  Michael  T.  Goodling, 
automotive  mechanics:  John  T.  Wedd, 
carpentry  and  building  construction 
lechnology:  David  Shaver,  plumbing 
and  healing;  Matthew  A.  Delozier,  civil 
engineering  lechnology:  Richard  P. 
Voccola,  service  and  operation  of 
heavy  construction  equipment,  and 
Michael  J.  Rutkowski,  electrical  con- 
struction. 


MUSHROOM 

329  Hepburn  SI 
Wilhamspoit,  Pa        i^^Mbl 
Open  at  11  00  am,  daily 
Gifts-Jewelry- 


NANCY'S  PLACE 


^ 


m 


322-9010 


CALL  IN  ORDERS 


536  W   Third  St 
Williamsport.  Pa. 


Open  11  to  9  Daily  .,  /iyxo^vXv^ 


Closed  Sunday 


Woodsmen  place  first 
in  forestry  contest 


The  College's  Forestry 
Technology  yudents  placed  lirsl  in  the 
Annual  Woodsmen  Event  held  at  the 
Allcnwood  Campus,  Saturday,  April 
19.  according  to  Richard  W. 
Rankinen,  associate  professor  of 
forestry. 

The  events  were  held  from  9  a.m. 
until  4  p.m.  A  total  of  36  students  com- 
peted in  the  contest. 

The  team  defeated  forestry 
students  from  Dabney  S.  Lancaster 
Community  College  of  Virginia  and 
Allegheny  Community  College  of 
Maryland.  The  team  scores  were  the 
College,  57;  Dabney,  54;  and 
Allegheny,  29. 

There  were  13  members  on  the 
College's  team.  They  are  first-year 
students  Vic  C.  Wise,  of  Williamsport; 
Jeff  A.  Niklaus,  of  Muncy;  and  Cliff 
H.  Siple,  Jr.,  also  of  Williamsport. 

The  second-year  team  members 
include  Greg  F.  Priset,  of  Wellsboro 
Barry  J.  Mohle,  of  Johnstown;  Mark 
R.  Reese,  of  Wellsboro:  Bill  M. 
Deangeles,  of  Poitsville;  Matthew  M. 
McCourt,  of  Turbotville;  Curl  F. 
Shadle,  of  Hegins;  Victor  L.  Wallett, 
of  Mount  Union;  Don  P.  Tate,  of 
Lewistown;  Gary  Laudeman,  of 
Minersville;  and  Bill  E.  Sanford,  of 
Mansfield. 

Judges  and  timers  were  instructors 
and  faculaty  of  the  College.  They  are 
James  P.  Pivirotto,  instructor  of 
forestry  technology;  Donald  R.  Nibert, 


assistant  professor  of  forestry 
technology;  Mrs.  JoAnn  R  Frcmiotti, 
student  activities  assistant;  and  Glenn 
Spocrke,  assistant  professor  of 
forestry. 

Out  of  16  events,  the  College  team 
placed  first  in  eight.  They  were  the  log 
roll,  pulp  toss  for  accuracy,  archery, 
axe  throw,  greased  log,  cross-cut  saw, 
pole  felling,  and  the  chain  throw. 

According  to  Rankinen,  three  in- 
dividuals were  recognised  for  placing 
first  in  four  one-man  events.  Tate 
placed  first  in  pole  felling  and  the 
greased  log.  Wise  placed  first  in  the  axe 
throw,  and  Deangeles  placed  first  in 
the  archery  competition. 

Rankinen  said  there  were  over  300 
spectators  at  the  event  and  the  weather 
was  perfect  for  the  contest.  He  also 
noted  the  competition  was  a  "tremen- 
dous success."  He  said  the  Woodsmen 
Event  will  be  held  next  year  at  the 
Dabney  S.  Lancaster  Community  Col- 
lege in  Maryland. 


Galbraith  to  perform 

at  coffeehouse 

Scott  Galbraith,  folksinger  from 
Lebanon,  is  tenalively  scheduled  to 
perform  at  the  Student  Government 
Association  (SGA)  coffeehouse  on 
Wednesday,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiotti,  student  activities  assis- 
tant. 

The  coffeehouse  will  be  from  1 1 
a.m.  to  2  p.m.  on  the  front  lawn  of 
Klump       Academic       Center. 
Refreshments   will   be   served,   added 
Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  last  SGA  meeting  of  the 
semester  will  be  at  4  p.m.  tomorrow  in 
Room    112.  Klump  At.idcmic  Center, 


Astronauts  are  among  the  ten 
worst  insurance  risks  in  the  United 
States. 


Monday,  April  28,  1980  5 

GET  plans  banquet 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET]  will 
sponsor  a  pledge  banquet  at  7  p.m. 
Wednesday  at  the  Best  Western 
University  Inn  in  South  Williamsport. 
according  to  Miss  Roxanne  M.  Roach, 
GET  president.  The  banquet  will 
honor  those  who  were  spring  and  fall 
1979  pledges,  spring  1980  pledges,  and 
graphic  instructors. 

There  was  an  election  of  fall  1980 
officers  at  the  regular  meeting  on  Tues- 
day, April  22.  New  officers  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  banquet,  she  said. 

GET  would  like  to  remind 
members  of  the  annual  fraternity  pic- 
nic May  3,  at  Memorial  Park,  said 
Miss  Roach. 

The  Los  Angeles  Lakers  won  33  con- 
secutive games  between  October  31, 
1971  and  January  9,  1972,  before  the 
champion  Milwaukee  Bucks  defeated 
them  in  Milwaukee,  120-104. 


'f'-M"\l'\:/^'^^\ 

326-4197   or   368^2284   1301    High   St.  Wmspt.,Pa. 17701 


ALL  WACC  STUDENTS 
BOWL  50  CENTS 

per  game  during  open  bowling  hours 

10am   to  5  p  m   daily;  Evenings  M-W-Th 
8pm   to  11 :  FrSat-Sun  1 0  a  m   to  1  2  p  m 

YMCA  BOWLING  LANES 


Want  Better  Bands???     Want  More  Activities??? 

Tired  of  Not  Knowing  Who  Your  Senator  Is??? 

Want  to  Revise  Mandatory  Attendance  Policy??? 

Why  Vote  for  the  Rest  When  You  Can 
Vote  for  The  Best! 

VOTE  SLATE  2 


:r^x    v:!?* 


DOUG  RESSEGUIE 
President 


LUCINDA  DANNEKER 

Vice  President 


DAVE  PENNYPACKER 

Treasurer 


Monday.  April  28,  1980 


Students  honored  at  banquet 


large  number  of  students  received 
awards  at  the  Student  Recognition  Banquet,  held 
at  6  p.m_last  Wednesday  in  the  Klump  Academic 
Center. 

Awards  were  made  to  the  following  student^: 
Greg  L.  Allen,  computer  science,  from 
Northwestern,  attended  for  participation  in  the 
Student  Government  Association  (SGA);  David  J. 
Bentzel,  plumbing,  from  Camp  Hill,  SGA 
secretary;  Jeffrey  L.  Ely,  carpentry  construction, 
from  Karns  City,  active  student;  Amy  L.  Bohart, 
computer  science,  from  Jersey  Shore,  yearbook 
and  SGA;  Eric  R.  Brannaka,  automotive 
mechanics,  from  Quakertown,  yearbook,  SGA; 
Dorothy  G.  Breon.  computer  science,  from  Port 
Clinton,  Who's  Who;  Daniel  L.  Brooks,  architec- 
ture, from  Jersey  Shore,  SGA. 

Also,  Judy  E.  Burgess,  business  ad- 
ministration, from  Mehoopany,  Who's  Who; 
Thomas  A.  Bythell,  forestry,  from  Edison.  New 
Jersey,  forestry,  Interclub  Council  (ICC);  Janice 
L.  Daniel,  journalism,  from  Loyalsock, 
SPOTLIGHT;  Reese  F.  Dibble,  business  ad- 
ministration, from  Canton,  Who's  Who;  Kimber- 
ly  A.  Dincher.  floriculture,  from  Monloursville. 
Who's  Who.  SGA  president;  Harold  P.  Eck, 
business  administration,  from  Jersey  Shore,  year- 
book; Kimberly  A.  Eck,  business  administration, 
from  Jersey  Shore,  Who's  Who. 

Also,  Donna  L.  Elsasser,  computer 
science,  from  Cocolamus,  Who's  Who,  varsity 
club  and  yearbok;  Julia  A.  Erb.  dental  technician, 
from  Milton.  Food  and  Hospitality  Management 
Organization  (FHSMO);  Ronald  J.  Fitzpatrick. 
engineering  drafting  technology,  from  Lock 
Haven,     Student     Society    of    Manufacturing 

Engineers  (SME)  president;  Charles  R.  Fogelman 
floriculture,  from  Lewistown,  SGA;  Kimoerely 
Fox,    dietetic    technician,    from    Duke    Center, 

Dr.  Feddersen  receives  recognition 

Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen.  College  president, 
was  recognized  formally  and  thanked  for  his  ser- 
vice 10  the  College  and  to  the  students  of  the  Col- 
lege last  Wednesday  during  the  annual  student 
recognition  banquet. 

Student  Government  Association  Preisdent 
Kimberly  A.  Dincher,  of  Monloursville,  told  the 
several  hundred  attending  the  banquet  that  the 
outgoing  College  president  would  be  remembered 
especially  because  he  had  maintained  communica- 
tion with  students. 

Those  attending  acknowledged  Dr.  Feddersen 
with  a  standing  ovation. 

SGA  officers 

(Comimml  fr,:m  Page  II 

The  three  candidaies  for 
presiderK  are  George  F.  Stephens, 
plumbing  and  heating,  of  Tama- 
qua;  Brenda  C.  Stringer, 
marlieling  and  merchandising, 
from  lewistown;  Douglas  E. 
Ressequie,  computer  science, 
from  Millville. 

Stephens  graduated  from 
Tamaqua  Area  High  School  in 
1978.  While  attending  high 
school  he  participated  in  track, 
cross  country,  football,  basket- 
ball, graphic  arts,  and  was  stu- 
dent government  president  and 
representative.  Stephens  also  en- 
joys sports,  fishing,  and  hunting. 

After  graduating  from 
Millville  High,  Ressequie  spent 
eight  years  in  the  Air  Force.  He 
was  the  Outstanding  Airman  of 
the  Year  at  Loring  Air  Force  Base 
in  1978.  He  was  also  chosen 
Outstanding  Airman  of  (he  8th 
Air  Force.  Ressequie  is  a 
member  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda  and 
enjoys  fishing. 


FHSMO;  Alton  E.  Glatfeller,  electronics,  from 
Siewartsiown,  yearbook;  Charlotte  M.  Griffith, 
general  studies,  from  Cogan  Station,  activities 
secretary.  Also,  William  W.  Hickey  Jr.,  computer 
science,  from  Wellsboro,  Who's  Who,  SGA;  Don- 
na E.  Houseknecht,  dietetic  technician,  from 
Hughsville,  FHSMO,  SGA;  Karen  F.  Houser, 
computer  science,  from  Walsontown,  Who's 
Who;  Diana  J.  Huggins,  computer  technology, 
from  Williamspori,  Who's  Who;  Thomas  S. 
Husler,  electronics,  from  Port  Royal.  Outstanding 
Technical,  SGA;  Mary  Jane  Keller,  business 
management,  from  Williamspori,  activities. 

Also,  Wallace  G.  Kozer,  engineering  and 
drafting,  SME;  David  S.  Kramer,  carpentry  con- 
struction, from  Cornwell  Heights,  activities;  Paul 
R.  Lininger,  nursery  management,  from  Enola, 
SGA;  Charles  S.  Lucky,  diesel  mechanics,  from 
New  Castle,  SGA;  Tammie  J.  Lupoid,  computer 
science,  from  Trout  Run,  Who's  Who. 

Also.  Benson  McCready,  forestry,  from 
Williamspori,  forestry;  Dennis  A.  Miller,  elec- 
fical  wiring,  from  Bloomsburg.  Who's  Who; 
David  M.  Mitchell,  carpentry  construction,  from 
Lock  Haven,  SGA;  Barry  J.  Mohle,  forestry,  ICC 
president.  Who's  Who,  and  Forestry;  George 
Nockct,  electrical  wiring,  from  Cumbola,  ac- 
tivities; Mark  Noye,  plumbing,  from  Hum- 
melslown,  activities. 

Also,  Jeanetle  E.  Owen,  business  ad- 
ministration, from  Williamspori.  Who's  Who; 
James  V.  Phillips,  general  studies,  from 
Williamspori,  ICC,  SGA;  Maryann  J.  Randello, 
graphic  arts,  from  Middleburg,  Gamma  Epsilon 
Tau  president;  Richard  A.  Reasinger,  forestry, 
from  Dubois,  forestry;  Robert  R.  Rebuck,  com- 
puter science,  from  Line  Mountain,  Who's  Who; 
David  E.  Ricker.  business  management,  from 
Allenwood,  SGA  treasurer,  PBL. 

Also.  Brian  M.  Rippey,  journalism,  from 
Lock  Haven,  SPOTLIGHT,  activities;  John  B. 
Rishel,  electrical  wiring,  from  South 
Williamspori,  SGA;  Dennis  Rogan.  graphic  arts, 
Clarks  Summit,  .SGA;  Juan  E.  Rojas,  computer 
science,  Hughsville,  Who's  Who;  Curtis  F. 
Shadle,  forestry,  from  Hegins,  Who's  Who. 
forestry;  Trudy  M.  Shively.  journalism,  from 
South  Williamsport,  yearbook  editor;  Cindy  M. 
Snook,  journalism,  of  Ml.  Pleasant  Mills, 
SPOTLIGHT/SGA. 

Also.  George  F.  Stephens,  plumbing,  from 
Tamaqua,  SGA  vice  president,  outstanding 
plumber;  Terry  L.  Stouffer,  engineering  drafting, 
from  Millheim,  Who's  Who;  Brenda  Stringer, 
marketing    merchandising,    from    Williamsport. 


SGA;  Gail  Thompson,  general  studies,  from  Mon- 
Igomery,  SPOTLIGHT;  Thomas  P.  Weaver,  ser- 
vice and  operation,  from  Corning,  N.Y.,  SGA; 
Anne  E.  Weilminster,  business  administration, 
from  South  Williamsport,  Who's  Who. 

Also,  Andrew  W.  Wentz,  business  manage- 
ment, from  Monloursville,  PBL  president.  Who's 
Who;  Linda  E.  Whaley,  secretarial  science,  from 
Williamsport,  Who's  Who/PBL;  Lori  A. 
Williams,  secretarial  science,  from  Williamsport, 
Who's  Who;  Kristy  L.  Wright,  individual  studies, 
from  Williamsport,  Circle  K  president. 

Also,  Mollie  S.  Zelcwicz,  journalism,  from 
Williamspori,  Who's  Who/SPOTLIGHT;  John 
F.  Zelewicz,  journalism,  from  Williamsport, 
SGA/SPOTLIGHT;  Mark  S.  King,  machinist 
general,  from  Wysox.  SGA;  Kathleen  M.  Maiolo, 
dental  hygiene,  from  Monloursville,  ICC  vice 
president  and  treasurer;  Lori  M.  Beaver, 
marketing  and  merchandising,  from  West  Milton, 
outstanding  business  student  and  Who's  Who; 
Kay  A.  Weber,  secretarial  science,  from  Lock 
Haven,  outstanding  business  student,  and  Who's 
Who;  Betty  Schuster,  dietetic  technician,  from 
Williamsport,  outstanding  food  and  hospitality 
student ;  David  C.  Korn,  engineering  and  draft 
ing,    from    Jordon  Twp.,  SGA. 

SGA  presents 
surprise  award 
to  advisor 

Voiced  choked  wilii  emotion,  Kimberly  A. 
Dincher.  president  of  the  Student  Government 
Association,  last  Wednesday  announced  the 
award  of  special  recognition  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremioiti  for  her  service  and  help  to  students  and 
college. 

The  presentation  of  the  award  was  a  surprise 
planned  by  SGA  officers  to  spotlight  the  efforts  of 
Mrs.  Fremioiti  in  her  capacity  as  student  activities 
assistant  and  advisor. 

Mrs.  Fremioiti,  visibly  displaying  emotion 
and  surprise,  was  escorted  to  the  speakers'  lectern 
by  Dr.  David  M.  Heiney,  dean  for  student  and 
career  development.   She  thanked  the  association. 

As  Miss  Dmcher,  of  Monloursville,  made  the 
announcement  of  the  award,  tho.se  attending  the 
banquet  rose  with  an  applause  ovation  for  Mrs. 
Fremioiti. 


Candidates  tor  the  office  of 
vice  president  are  David  M.  Mit- 
chell, carpentry,  Thomas  P. 
Weaver,  service  and  operation 
and  Lucinda  M.  Dannekcr, 
engineering  and  drafting 
technologies. 

Kalhy  M.  Maiolo.  dental 
hygiene;  Laura  E.  Mahon.  dental 
hygiene;  and  Dave  J.  Pen- 
nypacker.  business  administra- 
tion,    arc    the    candidaies     for 


Laura  E.  Mahon 


Dave  J.  Pennypacker 


Two  workshops 
left  to  assist 
graduates 

Two  workshops  lo  aid  graduates 
are  left,  according  to  Martin  McCor- 
mick,  career  development  assistant. 
The  workshops  are  being  presented  to 
assist  students  in  obtaining  employ- 
ment after  graduation. 

"How  to  Interview  for  a  Job"  will 
be  presented  at  12  p.m..  Friday,  May 
2.  The  final  workshop  will  be  at  3 
p.m.,  Tuesday,  May  6,  and  is  entitled 
"The  Job  Search:  Questions  and 
Answers,"  McCormick  said. 

The  workshops  will  be  approx- 
imately one  hour  long,  and  will  be  in 
the  Career  Development  Center,  Room 
210,  Klump  Academic  Center,  said 
McCormick. 

Bardo  Gymnasium 
open  this  summer 

The  Bardo  Gymnasium  will  be 
open  from  7  a.m.  to  3  p.m.  daily  dur- 
ing the  summer,  according  to  Thomas 
E.  Vargo,  director  of  physical  educa- 
tion for  summer  sessions. 

The  gym  will  also  be  open  two  or 
three  nights  a  week,  he  added. 

Equipment  will  be  available  for 
signing  out  during  open  hours,  Vargo 
said.  The  person  need  not  be  enrolled 
in  the  summer  term  to  be  eligible  to 
borrow  equipment,  he  indicated. 

Also,  the  athletic  fields  will  be 
available  for  use,  Vargo  said.  No  hot 
water  will  be  provided  in  the  showers, 
however,  he  added. 

Graduation  choir 
needs  more  voices 

Places  are  still  available  in  the 
Commencement  Choir,  according  to 
Mrs.  Lea  Frymire,  Theater  Company 
director. 

The  choir  will  sing  a  medley  of 
songs,  said  Mrs.  Frymire.  The  medley 
includes  "Memories".  "Corner  of  the 
Sky".  "If  1  Ruled  the  World",  and 
"Somewhere". 

Mrs.  Frymire  said  students  may 
join  the  choir  by  getting  in  touch  with 
her  or  by  coming  to  rehearsal.  The  last 
rehearsal  will  be  at  10  a.m..  Saturday. 
May  10,  in  Bardo  Gym,  she  said. 

Angel  Fails  on  the  Rio  Caroni  in 
eastern  Venezuela,  is  the  highest  water- 
fall in  the  world,  measuring  3,212  feet. 


Monday.  April  28,  1960 


Airport  campus  alive  'n  thriving 


By  Jan  Daniel 

Ot  Thr  SPOTLIGHT  SUft 


[Abovel  Donald  E.  Doerson,  of  Gettysburg,  and  Mark  E.  Hasselman,  of 
St.  Mary's  check  air-worthy  directives.  [Belowl  David  F.  Gilien,  of 
Ramey,  and  Christopher  Haun,  of  Linden  Village,  set  valve  timing  on  a 
Continental  W670  radial  engine.    All  are  first-year  aviation  students. 


The  Colleges  Aviation 
Maintenance  Technology  program  is 
alive  and  thriving,  with  75  students 
currently  enrolled,  according  lo  James 
A.  Garland,  instructor. 

The  program,  which  is  a  cer- 
tificate program,  is  comprised  of  50 
percent  classroom  theory  and  50  per- 
cent "live"  work,  working  on  actual 
aircraft,  said  Garland. 

According  to  Garland,  two  first 
year  classes  were  started  this  year  the 
usual  one  because  of  increased  enroll- 
ment. 

The  program  includes  instruction 
in  both  light  and  heavy  aircraft,  he 
said. 

"Our  placement  service  is  pretty 
good",  said  Garland.  Last  week. 
Eastern  Airlines  recruiter  talked  with 
second  year  students,  and  another 
airline  is  scheduled  to  be  there  next 
week,  he  added. 

Garland  said  the  starting  salary 
for  Eastern  would  be  $10.75  per  hour. 

The  program  has  three  instructors 
other  than  Garland.  James  W.  Little, 
James  E.  Doebler,  and  Robert  L.  Nor- 
ton also  are  instructors  in  th  program. 

According  to  Steven  F.  Hornun,  a 
first  year  student  from  Emporium, 
"It's  a  great  program.  You  learn  a 
lot." 

"We  learn  the  basics  here,  and  the 
airlines  teach  the  specifics  at  their 
school,"  he  added. 

Steven  E.  Fulmer,  a  first  year  stu- 
dent from  Montgomery,  took  part  in 
the  high  school  aviation  program  for 
(wo  years. 

According  to  Fulmer,  "The  pro- 
gram is  all  right,  but  I  think  we  should 
have  more  live  work.  You  feel  more 
responsible  with  live  aircraft  that  you 
know  will  fiy." 


Broadcasters  to  present 
benefit  proceeds  to  MS  Fund 


Dennis  Kellaher,  representative  of 
the  local  multiple  sclerosis  chapter,  will 
be  on  campus  at  2  p.m.  Wednesday  at 
the  broadcasting  facility  in  Unit  6,  ac- 
cording to  Clifford  C.  Horton,  broad- 


Energy  curriculum  committee 
appointed  by  Dr.  Feddersen 

An  energy  curriculum  committee  has  been  appointed  by  Dr.  William  H. 
Feddersen,  president,  according  to  Michael  A.  Sedlak,  chairman  of  the  com- 
mittee. 

Sedlak  said  the  committee  was  appointed  to  investigate  how  energy  con- 
servation may  be  emphasized  in  programs  at  the  College.  He  also  stated  that 
industries  and  corporations  are  beginning  to  feel  the  need  for  trained  person- 
nel in  the  field. 

Members  of  the  committee  include  Dr.  Luene  Corwin,  assistant  dean  for 
degree  and  certificate  programs;  Paul  L.  Heim,  assistant  professor  of  carpen- 
try; Melvin  K.  Winn,  instructor  of  secondary  electrical  construction;  Lloyd  C. 
Comer,  assistant  professor  of  architecture;  Frank  Leach,  instructor  of  plumb- 
ing and  heating,  and  Dr.  Grant  M.  Berry  Jr.,  director  of  resource  develop- 
ment. 

According  to  Sedlak,  a  survey  among  the  instructors  was  conducted  to 
determine  if  any  type  of  energy  conservation  was  emphasized  or  taught  in  their 
curricula. 

Sedlak  noted  that  responses  are  still  being  sought  from  some  of  the  in- 
structors. ^ 

Sedlak  said,  "Those  who  responded  should  be  recognized  for  their  pro- 
gressive attitudes."  He  said  he  was  also  urging  instructors  to  become  "deeply 
involved  in  leaching  some  aspect  of  energy  conservation  in  their  courses". 


casting  instructor. 

Steven  D.  Berguson,  broadcasting 
student,  will  formally  present  Kellaher 
with  $38  raised  by  the  "Wizards  of 
WWAS",  members  of  the  College 
radio  station  staff. 

The  money  was  raised  in  two 
benefit  basketball  games:  The  first  was 
with  WMPT  on  March  20  and  the 
other  was  with  the  SPOTLIGHT  staff 
on  April  l5. 

"We  intend  to  actively  pursue  this 
type  of  activity  in  the  fall."  said  Hor- 
ton. 

Based  on  1974  data,  sheep  in 
Australia  outnumbered  the  human 
population  145,304,000  to  13,339,000. 


Sessions  scheduled 
to  help  homemakers 

The  Career  Development  Center  is 
planning  another  workshop  for 
displaced  homemakers,  according  to 
Mrs.  Julie  A.  Grogan,  career  develop- 
ment specialist. 

The  workshop  will  begin  today, 
April  28,  and  will  continue  Mondays, 
Wednesdays,  and  Fridays  for  four 
weeks.  The  sessions  will  be  10  a.m.  to 
2:30  p.m.  in  Room  207,  Klump 
Academic  Center,  Mrs.  Grogan  said. 

Displaced  homemakers  are  full- 
time  homemakers  forced  to  find 
employment,  Mrs.  Grogan  said.  The 
reason  may  be  separation,  divorce,  or 
death  or  disability  of  a  spouse.  The 
homemaker  may  also  be  unemployed, 
underemployed,  or  have  minimal  job 
skills,  said  Mrs.  Grogan 


Fifth  Avenue 

|^gQ|^^LI^THISCOllPON|J2^^20|20Sl 

Diner 

§ 

25  Percent  Off                 g 
on  Any  Sub  or  Pizza            S' 

&  Sub  Shop 

L 

With  This  Coupon                   9 

At  Fifth  Ave.  Sub  Shop                S 

Coupon  Expires  May  }.  1980            ^9 

Under  ISew  Management 

Jusi  2  blocks 

Hours:           "'""'  "f  ""•"•" 

9  a.m.  lo  10  p.m.  dailr: 

Fifth  Avenue 

closed  .Sundays 

Just  Off  West  Fourth  Street 

Monday.  April  28,  1980 


Spring 

is  here 

and  summei 
is  well 
on  its  way 

Signs  of  spring 
flourish  -- 

budding  flowers 

and  trees, 

clear  blue  skies 

on  sunny  days, 

and  warm  breezes 

filling  the  nights 

Bill  nature  doesn  'l  briiii; 

the  only  symbols 

of  springlime 

With  only  six  days 

'lit  the  end  of  the  semester 

students  at  the  College 

lake  advantage  of  the  season  '\ 

splendor 

Frisbees  fly  sportingly  across  the  lawn  as  students  take  a  break  from  academic  routines.. 

bicycles  become  a  plea.sant  alternative  to  .student  parking. . . 

and  rapping  with  friends  in  front  of  the  Klump  Academic  Center 

is  a  great  way  to  absorb  the  rays. . . 

And  as  the  May  10  Commencement  draws  near, 

the  freshness  of  spring  is  welcome  and  is  a  grand  introduction  to  the  lure  of  summer. 


Photo  and  Text  by  Cindy  Snook 


BULLETIN 
BOARD 

MEETINGS 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau,  7  p.m. 
Wednesday.  Best  Western  Motor  Inn. 
pledge  banquet. 

Student  Government  Association. 
4  p.m..  Tuesday,  Room  132,  Klump 
Academic  Center. 

BANQUET 

Annual  Spring  Recognition  Ban- 
quet, 6  p.m..  Wednesday,  Annuncia- 
tion Parish  Hall. 

SPORTS 

Tennis,  1  p.m.  tomorrow,  home 
Bucks  County  Community  College. 

Tennis,  Saturday,  May  3,  at  10 
a.m.,  away,  EPCCAC  tournament  at 
Northampton  County  Community 
College. 


NOTICE 

From  Financial  Aid 
Renewal    applications    for 
Pennsylvania  Stale  Grants 
must   be   filed   by   May    1, 
1980. 


Play 
Lucky  Numbers 

College 
Corner 

Restaurant/Snack  Bar 

H/l\... 

Whole  Sub  &  Med.  Drink 

(Drawing  on  Friday) 

SPECIAL  THIS  WEEK 

Whole 

Cheese  Steak 

$2.65 

Reg   Price  $2  90 
SAVE  25c 


Alumni  Buffet 


MAY  10, 1960 

KLUMP  ACADEMIC  CENTER 

CAFETERIA 

11:00  A.M. -12:45  P.M. 


Menu 


Cold  Meat  Platter 

(Baked  Virginia  Ham  &  Fresh  Cooked  Turkey) 

Sliced  Cheese  Plate  (American  &  Swiss) 


Pickled  Eggs 

Relish  Tray 

Fresh  Fruit  Salad 

Coconut  Carrot  Cake 

Hot  Coffee 


Deviled  Eggs 

Macaroni  Salad 

Rolls 

Fruit  Punch 

Hot  Tea 

Graduates  —  FREE 


Potato  Salad 

Baked  Beans 

Homemade  Cookies 

Iced  Tea 


Reservations  must  be  in  by 
April  23,  J  980 


Guests  —  $4.00 


The 

Williamsport  Area 

Community  College 

Williamsport,  Pa. 


SPECIAL  EDITION 


THURSDAY,  MAY  1,  1980 
SPECIAL  EDITION 

4  PAGES 
VOL.  15,  NO.  31 


r 


V 


New  SGA  President 

Douglas  F.  Ressequie 
...planning  for  next  year 


'r*i!J'*% 


%'■■' 


It's  Almost  Summer! 

Steve    Berguson 
broadcasting  major  from  Wellsboro 


Person  of  the  Year 

Mrs.  Rosie  Rizzo 
chosen  by  SPOTLIGHT  staff 


Alumnus  of  the  Year 

Sidney  L.  McQuay 
...will  be  here  for  commencement 


•1^:3 


^ 


John  L.  Kickert,  campus  editor 


SPOTLIGHT  Staff 
picked  for  next  year 

Following  an  election  held  Tues- 
day, April  22,  eight  students  were  nam- 
ed to  SPOTLIGHT  Staff  positions,  ac- 
cording to  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  advisor. 

The  students  named  to  replace 
graduating  seniors  are: 

Jacqueline  J.  Cardene.  a  second 
year  student  from  South  Williamsport 
editorial  page  editor;  Brian  M.  Rippey 
a  first-year  student  from  Lock  Haven 
managing  editor;  Larry  G.  Steele,  ■ 
first-year  student  from  Flemington 
sports  editor;  John  L.  Rickerl,  a  first 
year  student  from  Honesdale,  campus 
editor. 

Also,  Robert  J.  Allen  a  first-year 
student  from  Williamsport;  Robert  E. 
Thomas,  a  first-year  student  from  Mif- 
flinburg;  and  Trudy  M.  Shively,  a  first- 
year  student  from  South  Williamsport, 
senior  staff  reporters. 

Timothy  A.  loth,  trom  East 
Stroudsburg  was  selected  as 
photography  editor.  Toth  is  an  incom- 
ing first-semester  journalism  student. 

The  new  staff  assumed  their  duties 
last  Monday. 


Thursday,  May  1,  1980  SPECIAL  EDITION 


Brian  M.  Rippey,  managing  editor 
I 


^^'V:.-      "^^W 


"  ^^^ 


Robert  E.  Thomas,  senior  staff  reporter 


Trudy  M.  Shively,  senior  staff  reporter 


Timothy  A.  Tolh,  photography  editor 


SPOTLIGHT 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
weekly  throughout  the  academic  year, 
except  for  college  vacations  by  jour- 
nalism and  other  interested  students 
Olfice  Room  7  Klump  Academe 
Center  Telephone        (71  7) 

326-3761    Extension  221 


Reporters 

Jacqueline  J  Cardene 
Lana  M  Apker 
Robert  J  Allen 
John  L  Rjckert 
Brian  M  Rippey 
Leslie  M  Rogers 
Trudy  M  Shively 
Cindy  M  Snook 
Larry  G  Steele 
Robert  E    ThomaS' 


Thursday.  May  1,  1980  SPECIAL  EDITION 


Slate  2  wins  SGA  offices  in   close  vote 


'Rosie'  is  the  choice 

Her  smiling  lace  and  cheerful  personality  have  endeared  her  lo 
siudcnis,  lacully.  and  siafl... 

Mrs.  Rosie  Rizio  -  "the  lady  in  Ihe  cafeteria"  ■-  has  been  named 
SPOTLIGHT  Person  of  the  Year. 

Mrs.  Rizzo,  who  has  been  employed  in  Ihe  cafeteria  in  Klump 
Academic  Center  for  about  five  years,  was  cited  for  her  friendliness, 
cheerfulness,  helpfulness,  and  concern  for  students. 

The  student-written  nomination  presented  to  SPOTLIGHT  student 
staffers  who  decide  the  award  each  spring  reads: 

"Rosie  Rizzo  is  the  kind  of  person  you  would  like  to  have  around 
you  all  day  long.  She  is  always  smiling  at  her  job;  always  willing  to  help 
'  you  out.  She  gives  you  the  feeling  it's  Ihe  sunniest  day  of  the  year  when 
she  walks  up  to  the  register  and  starts  talking  to  you... 

"...with  that  big.  broad  smile...  you  can't  help  but  smile  back  at  her 
"  and  even  start  a  conversation,  though  it  may  be  a  short  one. 

"She  scurries  around,  looking  for  something  to  do  --  whether  it  be 
heating  something  up  for  a  student  or  faculty  member  or...  Rosie  is 
always  there  to  help  someone  with  whatever  it  may  be... 


Sidney  L.  McQuay  to  receive 
outstanding  alumnus  award 


Sidney  L.  McQuay  is  the  recipient 
of  this  year's  outstanding  alumnus 
award  as  presented  by  the  alumni 
association,  according  to  Mrs.  Joann 
R.  Fremiotti.  student  activities  assis- 
tant. 

McQuay  is  expected  to  be  present 
at  the  commencement  ceremonies  to 
receive  his  award. 

He  is  a  1967  graduate  of  the 
Williamsport  Area  Community  Col- 
lege, studying  loolmaking  technology 

McQuay  is  an  associate  professor, 
industrial  technologies  programs, 
engineering  and  computational 
technologies  department.  National 
Technical  Institute  for  the  Deaf, 
Rochester  Institute  of  Technology, 
Rochester,  New  York. 

Tule  retires  post  as  dean 


McQuay  is  a  1962  graduate  of 
Williamsport  High  School,  and  also  at- 
tended machinist  mate  school  in  1963 
while  in  the  Navy.  He  received  an 
honorable  discharge  from  the  Navy, 

He  earned  his  bachelor's  and 
master's  degrees  at  the  State  University 
of  New  York  at  Oswego  in  the  field  of 
vocational-technical  education. 

McQuay  received  his  Ph.D.  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut  in  1977. 

In  1979,  McQuay  was  selected  by 
the  United  States  Jaycees  as  one  of  the 
Outstanding  Young  Men  of  America 
for  the  year. 

McQuay  is  married,  and  is  cur- 
rently living  in  Rochester. 


James  O.  Tule.  dean  of  secondary 
vocational  programs  has  announced 
his  retirement  effective  June  30  of  this 
year.  After  38  years  of  educational  ser- 
vices first  as  a  teacher  and  then  as  an 
administrator.  Dean  Tule  stated  that 
he  has  "really  enjoyed  his  years  here  at 
the  College." 

Dean  Tule  first  began  ad- 
ministrative work  at  Milton  High 
School.  After  Milton  he  went  to 
Easton  in  1957  where  he  became  direc- 
tor of  vocational  education.  He  was 
responsible  for  a  building  program  that 
expanded  the  vocational-technical  pro- 
gram Irom  5  to  12  shops. 

In  1964  Dean  Tule  went  to  Jim 
Thorpe  High  School  where  he  directed 
the  building  program  and  the  im- 
plementation of  the  technical  program. 
The  building  program  at  Jim 
Thorpe  consisted  of  four  separate 
buildings  with  22  different  trades.  The 
buildings  accommodated  3.500  high 
school  students  and  about  1,000  adult 
students. 


dary  programs  at  the  College  and  in 
1978  began  to  serve  as  executive  assis- 
tant to  the  president  and  coordinator 
of  the  new  building  program  presently 
underway. 

"I  came  to  WACC  primarily 
because  I  felt  that  this  institution  has 
the  potential  lo  have  one  of  the  finest 
trade  and  vocational  schools  east  of  the 
Mississippi"  commented  Dean  Tule. 
He  also  commented  about  the  fine 
faculty  at  the  College.  The  level  of 
cooperation  among  the  trustees  and  the 
president  has  helped  make  this  a  reali- 
ty. Dean  Tule  said. 

Dean  Tule  also  said  the  new 
welding  facility,  when  completed,  will 
be  one  of  the  finest  welding  facilities  in 
Ihe  East. 

According  to  Dean  Tule  "We've 
done  a  considerable  amount  of  work  in 
curriculum  reorganization." 

According  lo  Tule,  in  his  years  at 
the  College  "the  cooperation  and 
loyalty  of  the  faculty  has  been  outstan- 
ding." 


College  still 
trying  to  get 
housing  units 

By  Gail  Thompson 

Of  1  he  SPOTI  K.HI  Surf 

Student  housing  on  campus  may 
be  more  than  a  possibility  in  1981,  ac- 
cording to  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen. 
College  president. 

Although  still  quite  "iffy"  in  its 
planning  stages.  Dr.  Feddersen  said  the 
proposed  housing  project  would  be  in- 
cluded under  the  College's  $6,000,000 
Stage  II  Building  Program. 

The  project  would  also  be  part  of 
Williamsport's  Urban  Development 
program.  Dr.  Feddersen  said. 

A  parcel  of  10  acres,  located  at  the 
foot  of  Park  Street,  would  be  the  site 
of  the  proposed  housing  and  recreation 
area. 

Currently,  this  parcel  is  not  owned 
by  the  city  or  the  College,  but  by 
private  firms  and  individuals.  The  city 
would  obtain  the  parcel  through  an  Ur- 
ban Development  Grant  from  the 
federal  government,  Dr.  Feddersen 
said. 

Construction  of  the  project  would 
be  handled  by  a  private  developer  who 
would  then  have  the  option  of  buying 
and  operating  the  development  either 
in  conjunction  with  the  College,  or  in- 
dependently, he  said. 

The  College  also  has  the  option  of 
buying  the  housing  project  after  com- 
pletion. Dr.  Feddersen  added. 

Dr.  Feddersen  emphasized  that 
the  housing  is  not  a  dormatory,  but 
rather  an  apartment  house.  Each 
apartment  would  contain  two 
bedrooms,  a  living  room,  kitchenette, 
and  bathroom  for  four  occupants. 

If  constructed,  the  housing 
development  would  accomodate  about 
400  residents,  he  said. 

The  housing  project  is  in  response 
10  a  housing  survey  conducted  last 
year.  Dr.  Feddersen  said. 

Results  of  the  survey  indicated 
many  students  consider  the  current 
housing  "marginal".  Dr.  Feddersen 
said. 

With  the  additional  apartments 
from  the  project,  the  College  could 
alleviate  the  housing  problems  for  its 
students,  he  added. 

Recreational  areas,  including  ten- 
nis courts,  would  also  be  part  of  the 
project,  and  would  be  located  on  half 
of  the  parcel.  Dr.  Feddersen  said. 

He  also  said  a  developer  for  the 
project,  who  must  be  able  to  meet  all 
finanacial  obligations  and  other 
qualifications,  is  currently  being 
sought. 

During  the  last  three  years,  weekly 
newspaper  circulation  in  the  United 
Slates  has  risen  nearly  5  million,  accor- 
ding to  Publisher's  Auxiliary. 


Classes  end, 
students  leave 

Many  students  view  the  end  of  the 
College  term  as  a  relief  as  they  head  in- 
to the  summer  seeking  employment  un- 
til they  return  next  fall.  Students  who 


are  graduating  look  at  Ihe  acquain- 
tances and  friendships  they  have  gain- 
ed in  the  past  two  years. 

Monday  is  the  last  day  of  classes 
but  many  students  will  leave  today  and 
not  return.  Today  is  the  final  day  that 
this  group  of  people  will  be  assembled 
together. 


While  the  graduating  class  has 
anxiously  waited  to  finish  school  and 
pursue  a  career  in  their  field  of  study, 
they  will  miss  the  College  and  the  peo- 
ple associated  with  it. 


Ressequie  elected 
as  SGA  president 

Douglas  F.  Ressequie,  computer 
science  was  elected  the  new  Student 
Governmeni  Association  (SGA)  presi- 
dent, in  (he  election  held  last  Monday. 
Tuesday,  and  Wednesday  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  student  ac- 
tivities assistant. 

Also  elected  to  office  were  Lucin- 
da  M .  Danneker.  engineering  and  draf- 
ting technologies,  vice  president,  and 
Dave  J,  Pennypacker.  business  ad- 
ministration, treasurer. 

According  lo  Mrs.  Fremiotti,  472 
students  voted  this  year  compared  to 
67  lasi  year. 

It  was  an  extremely  close  race, added 
Mrs.  Fremiotti,  with  Slate  2  defeating 
Slate  I  by  25  votes. 

Fall  Events  were  discussed  at  the 
last  SGA  meeting  of  the  semester, 
which  was  held  at  4  p.m.  last  Tuesday 
in  Room  132,  Klump  Academic 
Center,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti.  The  new 
officers  will  begin  working  on  Fall 
Events  immediately,  added  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

Also  discussed  was  the  purchase 
of  three  stamp  machines,  which  will  be 
installed  in  Klump  Academic  Center, 
Unit  6.  and  the  Earth  Science  campus. 

The  SGA  would  also  like  to  use 
the  money  left  in  its  budget  lo  purchase 
something  for  either  the  Recreation 
Center  or  the  television  lounge,  ex- 
plained Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Student  rates 
dental  service 

When  people  think  of  the  College, 
they  think  of  courses  like  auto  repair, 
electronics,  engineering  and  drafting, 
but  there  is  another  course  which  many 
people  do  not  think  about.  This  course 
is  dental  hygiene. 

The  job  of  the  dental  hygienisi  is 
to  clean  and  X-ray  teeth,  make  impres- 
sions of  dental  patterns  and  take  care 
of  and  diagnose  minor  dental  pro- 
blems. 

Of  the  many  people  who  now 
utilize  the  services  of  the  clinic,  are 
students  attending  the  College  and  peo- 
ple from  the  Head  Stan  Program  and 
area  nursing  homes. 

The  Dental  Hygiene  Clinic  at  the 
College  takes  care  of  approximately  22 
people  a  day. 

"The  service  is  really  good," 
stated  Shahriar  Nehrir  when  asked 
about  the  services  the  clinic  offers. 
The  curriculum  also  received  high 
praise  from  Miss  Margie  L.  Krischer, 
who  said  the  service  is  really  good. 
Miss  Krischer  is  a  dental  hygiene  stu- 
dent at  the  College. 

Graduation  for  the  second-year 
dental  hygiene  students  will  take  place 
on  Saturday,  May  10,  in  the  Bardo 
Gym. 

The  prices  for  the  services  are: 
Adult  prophylaxis,  $4;  Edentulous 
(dentures),  $2:  Child  prophylaxis.  $3; 
and  Flouride  application,  $1. 

X-rays:  Full  mouth,  $8;  panelipse, 
{6;  bitewings,  SI:  and  individual, SI. 
Study  models  are  SI. 

The  price  for  College  students  and 
employees  is  $3.  Prices  are  subject  to 
change  without  prior  notice. 


•■«>m*?!>.ti'Wr-t*i'.V.*.v<:;-''V.V^.'f>l^-' 


New  phones 
being  installed 

Rewiring  for  the  new  electronic 
phone  system  is  underway  on  campus, 
according  to  James  C.  McMahon,  ad- 
ministrative assistant  to  the  dean  for 
administrative  services. 

The  new  phone  system  will  replace 
the  cross-bar  phone  system  currently  in 
use,  McMahon  said. 

McMahon  said  a  new  touch-tone 
console  switchboard  will  replace  the 
cord  switchboard,  thus  making  the 
operator's  job  a  "little  easier".  Also, 
more  trunk  lines  coming  into  the  Col- 
lege will  lessen  the  problems  in  getting 
a  call  through,  McMahon  said. 

The  new  phone  system  is  being  in- 
stalled by  Communications  Engineer- 
ing Corporation  of  Wilkes-Barre.  at  a 
cost  of  about  $205,000,  McMahon 
said. 

McMahon  pointed  out  implemen- 
ting the  new  system  will  be  cheaper 
than  continuing  the  present  system. 
Based  on  a  seven  percent  increase  per 
year,  over  a  10  year  period  the  new 
system  would  cost  $265,147  for  in- 
stallation, rental,  and  maintenance,  he 
said. 

Discussing  features  of  the  new 
system,  McMahon  said  230  touch-tone 
phones  will  be  mstalled,  eliminating 
key  phones.  Three-way  conferences 
will  be  able  to  be  held,  and  call  forwar- 
ding to  other  offices  will  be  facifflaled. 

Although  the  new  system  will  not 
be  installed  at  the  Earth  Science 
Building  in  Allenwood,  McMahon  said 
the  system  "should  provide  much  bet- 
ter service"  throughout  the  campus. 

Changing  over  to  (he  new  system 
is  sclieduled  for  June  30.  McMahon 
said. 

Training  sessions  on  using  the  new 
system  will  begin  before  Fall  semester 
for  facullv  and  staff,  McMahon  add- 
ed. 

Summer  term  helpful 

Students  who  need  a  course  to 
graduate,  bring  up  an  average  from 
2.0,  re-take  a  failed  course,  or  lighten 
Spring  or  Fall  terms,  are  encouraged  to 
enroll  for  Summer  classes,  according 
10  Ms.  Kathryn  M.  Marcello,  director 
of  student  records. 

Those  students  who  plan  on 
graduating  this  May  are  encouraged  to 
get  in  contact  with  their  advisor  to  con- 
firm that  they  have  met  all  the  re- 
quirements for  graduation,  she  said. 

"Past  records  indicate",  she  said, 
that  at  least  70  students  will  not 
graduate  this  May. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  plans 
graduates '  farewell  party 

A  farewell  parly  for  graduating 
members  and  outgoing  officers  of  Phi 
Beta  Lambda  is  planned  for  today,  ac- 
cording to  Gwen  L.  Berfield,  public 
relations.  Phi  Beta  Lambda  held  it's 
last  general  meeting,  Wednesday,  April 
23,  she  said,  where  the  executive  coun- 
cil proposed  plans  for  the  fall  semester. 

Included  in  the  discussion  was 
plans  for  the  first  annual  Phi  Beta 
Lambda  reunion  to  be  held  in  mid- 
July,  according  to  Ms.  Berfield. 

Also,  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda  can- 
teen will  continue  to  be  "open  as 
usual"  for  students  enrolled  for  the 
summer  semester,  she  said. 

"The  members  of  Phi  Beta  Lamb- 
da wish  all  graduating  students  the  best 
of  luck,"  said  Ms.  Berfield.  "and  hap- 
piness in  their  future  endeavors." 


Thursday.  May  1.  1980  SPECIAL  EDITION 

16  receive  new  '  WA  CC  Y  A  ward ' 

Sixieen  persons,  inclutJing  Dr.  William  H.  Feddersen,  presi- 
dent, received  (he  new  'WACCY  Award'  at  the  annual  Spring 
Recognition  Banquet  Wednesday  in  the  Annunciation  Parish 
Center. 

The  WACCY  was  given  for  the  first  time  this  year.  The 
award  was  presented  to  persons  who  have  demonstrated  high 
quahty  in  teaching,  or  dedication  to  their  duties  and  to  the  Col- 
lege beyond  that  required. 

The  award,  fashioned  in  the  shape 
of  a  circle,  carries  a  dual  .symbolism  of 


excellence  and  of  belonging  to  a 
specific  organization  --  the  "WACC 
family"  --according  to  David  P. 
Siemsen.  chairman  of  the  Recognition 
Banquet  Committee. 

Those  who  received  awards  are: 

Alex  W.  Bailey,  of  Jersey  Shore 
RD  3.  associate  professor  of  business 
administration:  Delmont  F.  Bergey.  of 
Cogan  Station  RD  1.  assistant  pro- 
fessor, automotive;  J.  Everett  Doane. 
of  Wellsboro.  motor  pool  laborer; 
Fred  W.  Dochler.  of  Salladasburg.  in- 
structor in  carpentry. 

James  C.  McMahon.  of 
Williamsporl.  administrative  assistant 
to  the  dean  for  administrative  services; 
Mrs.  Veronica  M.  Muzic.  of  South 
Williamsporl.  associate  professor  of 
English;  Davie  Jane  Nestarick.  of 
Jersey  Shore,  instructor  in  dental 
hygiene. 

Michael  A.  Sedlak.  of  Mon- 
tgomery RD  I.  associate  professor, 
horticulture;  Catherine  M.  Shaffer,  of 
Williamsport.  secretary,  counseling 
and  career  development;  Glenn  R. 
Spocrke.  of  South  Williamsport.  assis- 

Sir  Timber  captures 
IM  Softball  crown 

Sir  Timber  scored  three  times  in 
the  bottom  of  the  fifth  to  defeat  The 
Palace  7-5  and  win  the  intramural  soft- 
ball  crown.  The  game  was  played 
Wednesday  behind  Unit  6. 

A  two-out  error  in  the  bottom  of 
the  fifth  allowed  two  runs  to  score  and 
Rick  Rhinehart  singled  home  another 
run  as  Sir  Timber  broke  a  4-4  tie. 

The  Palace  managed  a  run  in  the 
top  half  of  the  sixth  and  final  inning 
and  left  a  runner  stranded  in  scoring 
position. 

The  limbermen  jumped  out  to  a 
4-0  lead  after  one  inning.  Charles  S. 
Markle  hit  a  three-run  homer  and 
Rhinehart  followed  with  a  solo  blast. 
The  inning  ended  when  Gary  L., 
Laudcman  tripled  and  was  thrown  out 
trying  to  stretch  it  into  a  homer. 

The  Palace  tallied  once  in  the  third 
and  tied  the  score  with  three  runs  in  the 
fourth.  An  RBI  double  provided  the 
losers  with  their  run  in  the  third.  In  the 
fourth,  an  RBI  single  sandwiched  bet- 
ween two  sacrifice  flies  tied  the  game, 

Barry  J.  Mohle  was  credited  with 
the  mound  win. 

Library  open  in  summer 

The  College  Library,  located  in 
the  Rishel  Building  will  be  open  this 
summer  according  to  David  P. 
Siemsen.  director  of  learning 
resources. 

Siemsen  said  during  the  May  and 
June  terms,  library  hours  will  be  Mon- 
day through  Wednesday.  8  a.m.  to  7 
p.m..  Thursday  and  Friday,  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m. 

Siemsen  added  that  between  terms 
and  before  and  after  terms,  hours  will 
be  Monday  through  Friday  8  a.m.  to  4 


tant  professor,  forestry;  Robert  A. 
Stout  (resigned),  of  Williamsporl. 
assistant  professor,  electronics. 

James  O.  Tule.  of  Muncy  RD  3, 
dean  for  secondary  vocational  pro- 
grams; Chalmer  C.  Van  Horn,  of 
Muncy  RD  4.  associate  professor, 
drafting;  Max  G.  Wasson  (part-time), 
of  Williamsport.  wrestling  coach, 
physical  education;  A.  Neale  Winner, 
of  Williamsport,  coordinator  of  media 
production  and  instructional 
technology. 

Several  retirees  were  also  honored 
at  the  event.  W,  Robert  Dittmar,  of 
Cogan  Station  RD  2.  has  retired  after 
22  years  of  service.  He  was  an  assilant 
professor  of  drafting. 

John  H.  Jones,  of  Williamsport. 
mathematics  instructor,  retired  after  15 
years  of  service. 

Retiring  with  four  years  of  service 
was  J.  Everett  Doane.  of  Wellsboro, 
motor  pool  laborer.  Marjorie  M. 
Delker,  of  Cogan  Station  RD  2,  ac- 
counting clerk,  was  with  the  College 
for  nine  years,  and  William  E.  Kibbe. 
of  Williamsport.  maintenance 
worker/plumber,  retired  after  two 
years. 

Bucks  shut  out 
Wildcat  squad 

Bucks  County  Community  Col- 
lege clinched  their  second  straight 
league  title  by  beating  the  Wildcat  ten- 
nis squad  8-0  in  a  rain-shorlened  con- 
test Wednesday.  The  loss  dropped  the 
Wildcats  to  2-2  in  the  conference  and 
3-2  overall. 

David  M.  Stopper  dropped  a  6-0, 
6-1  decision  to  Shawn  Kerns,  Leroy  L. 
Baer  lost  6-2.  6-0  to  Frank  Early,  and 
David  A.  Hurd  lost  a  tough  6-3.  4-6. 
6-4  match  to  Len  Walp. 

Also  in  singles  play,  Scott  A. 
Miller  was  downed  6-4.  6-1  by  Dave 
Martens,  Brad  Minnier  was  beaten  6-4. 
6-2  by  Andy  Alexander,  and  Franklin 
K.  Noll  lost  two  6-3  sets  to  Harley 
McBriety. 

Martens  and  Alexander  teamed  up 
to  whip  Stopper  and  Baer  6-4.  6-2  and 
Roy  A.  Fern  and  Lester  W.  Oakes 
dropped  a  6-3.  6-1  match  to  Exler  and 
Phillips.  Noll  and  Hurd  had  lost  the 
first  set  of  their  doubles  match  7-6  to 
Walp  and  McBriety  when  the  match 
was  stopped. 

The  win  gave  Bucks  a  6-0  overall 
record  with  a  4-0  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  con- 
ference mark. 

The  Wildcats  will  hosl  iheir  final 
match  tomorrow  when  they  meet  Nor- 
thampton County  Community  Col- 
lege. On  Saturday,  the  Wildcats  will 
travel  to  Northampton  for  the  con- 
ference tournameni. 

Two  players  were  selected  to  play 
singles  in  the  tournament  and 
two  doubles  teams  were  chosen  by 
Coach  Harry  C.  Spechi.  Stopper  and 
Baer  will  compete  in  the  singles  and 
Noll  and  Hurd  will  team  up  for  one  of 
the  doubles  entries. 


Six  foot-len  and  one-half  inch 
Tom  McMillen.  Atlanta  Hawk  center 
(pictured  above),  will  be  the  featured 
speaker  at  the  College  graduation  on 
Saturday.  May  10. 

Commencement  will  begin  with  an 
alumni  buffet,  which  will  be  served 
from  II  a.m.  (o  1:15  p.m.  in  the 
Klump  Academic  Center  cafeteria. 

The  graduates  will  meet  in  the 
auditorium  a(  1:15  p.m.,  where  they 
will  don  their  caps  and  gowns,  and 
them  move  to  first  floor  to  line  up  for 
the  processional,  which  will  begin  al  2 
p.m. 

The  graduates  will  proceed  across 
Third  Street  to  Bardo  Gym  for  the 
commencement  exercises. 


Student  needed 
to  direct  play 

A  male  student  director  is  needed 
for  the  theater  company's  fall  presen- 
tation, according  to  Mrs.  Lea  Frymire, 
theater  company  advisor.  M.A.S.H.  is 
tenlalively  set  to  be  the  production. 

Mrs.  Frymire  said  the  student 
should  have  a  dominant  personality. 
He  should  also  have  some  ideas  about 
directing,  although  he  doesn't 
necessarily  have  to  have  experience, 
she  said. 

The  student  director  will  only  have 
10  be  concerned  with  the  on-stage  ac- 
tivities, such  as  acting  and 
characterization,  Mrs.  Frymire  said. 

Interested  students  may  get  in 
touch  with  Mrs.  Frymire  as  soon  as 
possible. 

Students  are  also  reminded  that 
the  last  rehearsal  of  the  commence- 
ment choir  will  be  al  10  a.m.,  Satur- 
day, May  10,  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 
Students  wishing  to  join  (he  choir  can 
do  so  al  (his  lime.  Mrs.  Frymire  said. 

The  other  doubles  team  will  be 
Miller  and  either  Minnier  or  Oakes, 
Specht  said.  Players  are  not  allowed  lo 
compeie  in  both  singles  and  doubles 
compelilion  in  ihe  tournament,  he  add- 


