;¥Sft55™:¥«W:¥:%¥a::!*«9»;s««s«K^^ 


Welcome! 


Dear  Students: 

I'm  pleased  to  welcome  you  to  ttie 
opening  of  ttie  Fall  1983  Semester  at  Ttie 
Willlamsport  Area  Community  College 

We  are  a  growing  institution.  As  our 
society  changes,  we  recognize  ttiat  we 
must  keep  pace.  We  welcome  the 
challenge.  We  intend  to  meet  the  oppor- 
tunities of  the  future  and  to  prepare  each  of 
you  to  do  the  same. 

As  those  of  you  who  are  returning  to  the 
campus  will  undoubtedly  notice,  we  have 
made  a  number  of  improvements  to  our 
campus  over  the  summer.  In  addition  to  the 
two  new  buildings  under  construction  --  the 
Lifelong  Education  Center  and  the  Profes- 
sional    Development    Center    -and     the 


substantial  improvements  recently  made 
elsewhere  about  campus,  plans  are  already 
underway  for  yet  more  campus  develop- 
ment, including  a  new  Advanced 
Technology  and  Allied  Health  Center. 

These  developments  are  but  the  sur- 
face reflection  of  our  deeper  commitment  to 
an  on-going  process  of  grow  ;h  and  Improve- 
ment in  all  areas.  And  this  process  is  the 
essence  of  the  educational  experience  -  for 
each  of  you  as  individuals  -  as  well  as  for 
the  College  as  a  whole. 

We're  proud  to  have  you  as  a  student  at 
the  College  and  hope  that  you  will  be  proud 
to  be  a  part  of  The  Willlamsport  Area  Com- 
munity College  experience. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder 
President 


Spotlight 

Vol    I"),  No    I      •     Frid:i\,  Aiij;    26    IMXl     •     X  I'.iiics 
Williainiporl  Area  (  oininunrl\  Collect'     *     Hilliaiiispiirl,  I'.i    I77HI 

'We  need  participation  and  involvement' 

Transition  Committee  says:  Welcome! 


"TNe  Transition  CoinmiUce  (ur 

ll\c  Sliidcnl  Gdvcriimcnl  Assncialion 
(S(1A)  wiHild  like  1(1  wclci'iiic  all 
sliidciiis  10  Tall  scnicsicr,"  said 
Tlidiiui.s  (Thdiii)  A.  Marino, 
spokesperson  for  ihc  comniillcc. 

"Wc  ttould  like  111  iiiliirni  new 
sliidenis     and     lenniul     reiiirnnig 


smdcnw  t4«H  we  need  Vtw  pariiciyia- 

lion  and  invnKcnicnl  of  llie  sIikIciiI 
body  10  prove  (he  .SintlenI  (iineiii- 
iia'iil  Assoeiali(ni  lo  he  elTeelive,"  he 
.said. 

The  Traiisiiiini  Onnniillec  is 
a\ailnlile  lo  aid  llie  siudenis  in  any 
problems   thai    may   arise,   wliclber 


"We  need  sntiieslions  'ind  idea' 
lor  sindeni  aeliiilies,  and  ennnnillees 
lor  cnlerlaimiicnl  and  coneerls," 
Marino  said. 

He  poinlcd  out  thai  Ihc  Transi- 
lion  Comniillee's  primary  role  is  lo 
represein    llie   uill    of   Ihc    sliideiil 


'i    'ij  I  — '  '-M  tmk»  iM^  Tirtv"  '"'"  u\ 

assnrini'  Ih'^i  ihc  ('"'lo;''?  i'  n.;-,,  „r 
llie  sUidciils'  needs. 

The  new  SCiA  otTiee  is  located  in 
Room  202,  Academic  Center.  Hours 
will  be  posted  at  a  later  dale. 

"We  look  forward  lo  seeing  all 
o|  Mill,"  he  enneliided. 


B^;ATI^G  THK  crowd  -  (;e(irt.e  A,  Poiiehioiie,  an  cicelrieal  oeeupiilinn  slu- 
di'nt  Iroin  Kbensbiirj;,  was  one  of  (he  "early  liiivers  "  in  the  College  Bookstore 
this  week.  jSPOTLIOHT  pluiio  In-  Loii  M.  Lum/ 


Bookstore  open  longer  until  Sept.  9 

The  College  Bookstore  will  be  open  today  from  8  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m., 
bill  will  begin  "extended  hours"  on  Monday  (Aug.  29),  according  lo  Mrs, 
Eleonorc  R.  Holeomb,  Bookstore  supervisor. 

Starling  Monday  and  continuing  through  Friday,  Sept.  9,  the 
Bookstore  will  be  open  from  8  a,m,  lo  8  p.m.  daily  except  Fridays.  On 
l-ridays,  the  closing  lime  is  4:.W  p.m. 

'Student  Acquaintance  Festival' 
scheduled  to  begin  on  Tuesday 

The  Transition  Committee  for  the  Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  is 
sponsoring  a  "Student  Ac(]uainlance  Festival"  Tuesday  through  Thursday. 

On  Tuesday,  the  folk  group,  Jerusalem,  will  play  on  the  quad  in  from  of  the 
Academic  Cenler  from  II  a.m.  lo  2  p.m.  Iced  tea  will  be  offered  for  refreshment. 
There  will  be  no  charge  for  either. 

On  Wednesday,  various  clubs  and  organizations  will  have  booths  set  up  to 
familiarize  sindcnis  with  their  activities.  This  will  also  be  on  the  quad  from  1 1  a.m. 
until  2  p.m.    Free  watermelon  will  be  available  for  refreshment. 

On  Thursday,  Marly  Bear  will  pay  a  return  visit  to  entertain  from  1 1  a.m.  to  1 
p.m.  His  performance  will  also  be  on  the  quad.  Ice  cream  will  be  offered  for  25 
cenls  a  scoop. 

In  case  of  rain,  entertainment  will  be  held  in  the  Academic  Cenler  Student 
Lounge  and  refreshments  will  be  provided  in  Ihe  foyer  of  the  Academic  Center. 

In  reporting  Ihe  week's  activities,  Thomas  (Thom)  A.  Marino,  spokesperson 
for  the  Transition  Committee,  .said  "that  since  Ihe  administration  is  effecting  exten- 
sive renovations  toprovide  a  pleasant  atmosphere  for  us,  lei's  keep  our  College 
clean  beeau.se  Ihe  exterior  appearance  -  as  well  as  the  interior  -reflects  the  integrity 
of  the  student  body." 


Page  2    *     SPOTLIGHT    *     Hml  Day  of  Classes  Issue     *     Frida>.  Aus.  26.  I98J 


Practical  nursing  students    get    certificates  at  commencement 


Firsl  formal  event 

in  refurbished 

auditorium 

Courlesy  Collc^i'  lii/tiniiolioii  Office 
Fifty-four     practical     nursing 
students  of  the  College  were  awarded 
certificates  al  commencement  exercises 


J.     C'lcjip,     (if    Roaring 


Division 

Special  award!*  made 

The    Helen    A.    Smith 


award, 


held  at  7  p.m.,  Friday,  Aug.  19,  in  the  presented  l<i  the  student  who  has  shown 

Academic  Center  Auditorium.  extraordinary   achievcmeni    In   theory, 

Julie  James,  R.N.,  a  certified  nur.se  praclicum,  and  personal  growth,  went 

midwife,  of  Willianisport,  addressed  the  lo  Ellen  M.  Haines,  of  Beaver  Springs, 
graduates.   Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch,  dean  Teresa  L,  Smith,  of  Jersey  .Shore, 

of    academic    affairs,    prcscnicd    (he  received  the  Ellen  Harding  Rcrn  ,iu,iu1 


^  Mrs.  Josephine  Smith  of  Watson- 
town  has  donated  $10,000  lo  the  Col- 
lege to  make  scholarships  available  for 
students  from  the  Warrior  Run  School 
District  10  attend  the  Community  Col- 
lege. Mrs.  Smith  make  the  donation 
through  The  Williamsport  Area  Com- 
munity College  Foundation  to  honor 
the  memory  of  her  late  husband,  Ralph 
L.  Smith. 

In  speaking  of  the  gift,  Mrs.  Smith 
said,  "I  wanted  to  do  something  in 
Ralph's  memory  and  since  I  fell  there 
was  a  need  lo  help  youths  of  the  War- 
rior Run  area,  the  Ralph  L.  Smith 
Memorial  Scholarship  seemed  to  be  the 
best  way  to  serve  his  memory.   My  lale 

Cafeteria  serves  7  lo  2 

The  Canteen  Corporation 
operated  Cafeteria  in  the  Academic 
Center  is  open  from  7  a.m.  until  2  p.m. 
today  and  continue  those  hours 
throughout  the  Fall  semester. 

Full  course  meals  will  be  available, 
along  with  an  a  la  carle  menu  and  ven- 
ding machines  items. 


graduates.  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breudcr,  Col-     for  outstanding  scholastic  achievcmeni  Brcnda 

lege  president,  awarded  the  certificates,     and  exceptional  ability  in  praclicum  and     Branch. 

Three  students  were  prcsenlcd  wilh     conimunicalion  skills.  icri  L.  Cohick,  of  Jersey  Shore, 

awards  by  Michael  Neslarick,  director  The   Thelma    S.    Morris    .iward,  Susan     A.     Conrad,     of    Moii- 

of  the  Math,  Science,  and  Allied  Heallh     prcscnied    lo    the    sludciil    who    has     loursville. 

dcminislralcd  oulslanding  qualities  of  a  Tena  Y.  Derrick,  of  Laird.svillc. 

practical  nurse  in  the  clinical  area  went  Patricia  A.  Dougal.  of  Towaiida. 

lo  Pauline  S.  Frcas,  of  Williamsport.  Kristin      L.      Downey,      of 

The  graduates  included:  Williamsport. 

Kathy  M.  Becker,  of  Rcnovo.  Kalhy  L.  Drick,  of  Allenwood. 

Brcnda  K.  Bcnninger.  of  Canton.  Linda  K.  Duda,  of  Liberty. 

Judith  A.  Bower,  of  Walsonlown.  Kurl  M.  Ellison,  of  Monloursville. 

Sarah  J.  Brown,  of  Monloursville.  Janice  E.  Foster,  of  Troy. 

Man  Anil  Bulloii,  of  Gaines.  Pauline  S.  Freas,  of  Williamsport. 

Darlcne    M.    Frcc/cr,    of    Mon- 
loursville. 

Linda  K.  Gamble,  of  Williamsport. 
Kimberly     Jo     Gardner,     of 
Hughes\illc. 

Catherine  M.  Geisler,  of  Canton. 
Dennis  W.  Greenawall,  of  Mon- 
loursville. 

Lynn      L.      Greenawall,     of 
Williamsport. 

Ellen  M.  Haines,  of  Beaver  Spr- 
ings. 

Joyce  L.  Hicks,  of  Muncy. 
Melincla  L.  HDnsckncchl,  of  Mun- 
cy Valley. 

Darlcne       K.       Kaiser,      of 
Williamsporl. 

Laurie  J.  Kcsslcr,  of  Danville. 
Ann      R.      Lcidhcckcr,      of 
Williamsporl. 

Carol  J.  Leung,  of  Williamsporl. 

Janice  L.  I  cui^.  of  Icrscy  Shore. 

MichcIc      K.      Mahonski,     of 

Williamsporl. 

Brcnda  K.  Marr,  of  MillbT 
Judy  M.  Marshall,  of  WalS(nilown. 
Wendv   M.   Middlelon,  of  Allen- 
wood. 

Shirley  0.  Moore,  of  Woolrich. 
Karen  L.  Moser,  of  Williamsport. 
Judy  H.  Myers,  of  Muncy. 
Kclli  R.  Myers,  of  Woolrich. 
Dolores    A.    Nagele,    of    Eagles 
Mere. 

Nancy  E.  Page,  of  Jersey  Shore. 
Donna      M.      Phillips,      of 
Williamsport. 

Jean  J.  Phillips,  of  Unityville. 
Janjce  L.  Punako,  of  Lewisburg. 
Gladys  E.  Reese,  of  Ralston. 
Carole  S.  Ross,  of  Selinsgrove. 
Cynlhia     E.     Shcatlcr,     of 
Hughcsville. 

Teresa  L.  Smilh,  of  Jersey  Shore. 
Barbara     L.     Snyder,    of    Nor- 
thumberland. 

Angela  D.  Wallers,  of  Middleburg. 
Joan  L.  Weaver,  of  Williamsporl. 
Patricia  J.  Welsh,  of  Honesdale. 
Ann  C.  Winner,  of  Trevorlon. 
Jnlic  A.  Will,  of  Cogan  Station. 
Robin  L.  Yeager,  of  Lock  Haven. 


GErriNG  BRIEFED  -  Pracrical  nursing  sludenls  gathered  in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium  -  even  while 
relurbishing  continued  -  lo  gel  briefed  aboul  procedure  f..r  commencement  ceremony,  /SPOTLIGHT pliolo/ 

$10,000  donation  memorializes  Ralph  L  Smith 


husband  was  always  inlercsted  in  help-         Annually  a  minimum  of  $500  will 

ing  youths  and  he  hired  a  number  of     be  allolled  for  the  specific  purpose  of 

Williamsporl    Technical    Institute   (the  aiding  students  from  Warrior  Run  lo  al 

forerunner  lo  the  Community  College)  lend  the  Williamsporl  Area  Community 

and    Williamsporl    Area    Commuinily  College.  No  stipulations  were  placed  on 

College  graduates  al  his  plant."  the    funds;    however.    Warrior    Run 

The  lale  Mr.  Smith  was  owner  and    School  District  will  be  asked  each  year 

president  of  The  Walsonlown  Foundry    '"  identify  the  student  or  students  lo 

for  more  than  30  years.  The  Foundry  is    receive    the    scholarship.       Selection 

still  in  operation  although  it  is  no  longer 

in  Ihe  Smilh  family. 

According  to  Fred  T.  Gilmour,  ex- 
ecutive director  of  The  Williamporl 
Area  Community  College  Foundation, 
"The  principal  purpose  of  the  fund  is  lo 
provide  financial  aid  to  students  of  the 
Warrior  Run  School  District." 


crileria  include  academic  achievement, 
financial  need,  dedication,  leadership, 
or  oiher  similar  qualities. 

Details  are  slill  being  worked  out 
on  how  many  sludenls  per  year  will 
receive  Ralph  L.  Smilh  Memorial 
Scholarships.  The  scholarship  funds 
will  be  administered  through  the  Finan- 
cial Aid  Office  al  the  College. 


The  SPO TLIGH T  is  a  member  ol  ,he  Columbia  Scholaslic  Press  AssoaaUon  \ 

L.  Thompsor,.  ^'  *•  "'"'^''  ^'"-"'^  ^-  Montgomery,  Mary  L.  Pease.  Perry  D.  Pentz,  and  Joan        i: 


Friilay,  Aiie,  26.  1983    *    Fmi  Dm- ,,/ 


Boom  Festival  recalls  Lumber  Era  in  city; 
Woodsmen's  Rally  among  weekend  activities 


By  Roberl  W.  Minier 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

"Nothing  in  llie  world  is  so  power- 
ful as  an  idea  whose  lime  has  come," 
Viclor  Hugo  said  --  and  so  il  was  for 
James  H.  Perkins  when  he  came  lo 
Willianisporl  in  December  1845,  wilh 
John  Lcghlon  for  Ihc  purpose  of  engag- 
ing in  the  mannfacliirc  of  linnbcr.  He 
soon  realized  Ihc  advisabilily  of  building 
a  "boom"  al  or  near  Willianisporl. 

When  James  Leghlon  and  Perkins 
arrived  in  Willianisporl,  Ihey  scllled  on 
wlial  was  called  Long  Reach  and  now  is 
known  as  Reach  Road. 

Mountains  form  barrier 

The  mounlains  furnished  a  sirong 
barrier  lo  the  ovcrllowing  of  Ihe  logs 
aflcr  Ihey  were  in  Ihc  boom.  The  failure 
of  Ihe  only  sawmill  in  Willianisporl. 
which  was  known  as  Big  Water  Mill, 
enabled  Ihc  purchase  by  Abraham 
UpdegralT,  James  Armstrong  and 
Perkins  al  a  Sheriff's  Sale.  Soon  aflcr, 
Perkins  became  sole  owner  and  it  was 
he  who  became  interested  in  a  boom 
company. 

On  March  26,  1846,  Ihe  governor 
of  Pennsylvania  (Francis  R.  Shunk)  ap- 
proved tlic  incorporati<ni  of  Ihc  Sus- 
quehanna Boom  Company.  The  Sus- 
quehanna Boom  became  one  of  Ihe 
largest  and  most  efficient  in  the  country. 

Thn^.    ...nrn    'P..„n.    Rull' 


of  the  passing  of  a  great  industry  in  The  Susquehanna  Boom  Festival  is 

Williamsporl     but     our    native    past     an  cfforl  lo  rediscover  the  rich  heritage 

chestnul  trees  and  chestnut  picking  in     of  this  area  and  to  share  ils  "roots" 


the  autumn. 

So  passed  an  industry  that  made 
Willianisporl  synonymous  with 
millionaires  and  sawdust. 


wilh  neighbors  to  the  north,  south,  east 
and  west.  Ihc  Boom  Festival  coincides 
wilh  the  well-known  little  league 
World  .Scries. 


^^-^B^^S^^m 

^^1^^ 

.^,_aJ'    '     .^^-^^MPfc-***'  .^.....fci^^^M^^^^ 

7^^5c3Z 

The  Bo<nn  employed  from  150  to 
200  men  and  boys.  The  boys  were  set 
lo  work  rafting  logs  together  because  of 
their  agility  in  scurrying  around  the 
logs.  They  were  labeled  "Boom  Rats". 
In  the  years  1862-1882,  the  men  rafted 
over  18,738,000  logs.  This  meant  a 
board  fool  measure  of  3,5.16,741,000 
feet.  Many,  many  more  board  feet  were 
lost  lo  careless  cutting  and  manufactur- 
ing. 

Disastrous  floods  plagued  the 
Bocmi  from  the  years  1889  to  1894,  and 
the  Susquehanna's  mighty  torrents  sent 
logs  down  the  river  and  covered  the  cily 
to  Newberry.  Logs,  pickets,  and 
chicken  houses  were  strewn  from 
Williamsporl  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean. 

The  year  1909  marked  the  end  of 
Ihc  Boom  days.  Only  a  few  forest  giants 
had  been  left  and  Ihe  industry  had  mov- 
ed 10  new  fields  in  Ihe  northwest.  Insuf- 
ficient water  in  1908  allowed  only  half 
the  logs  to  be  brought  in,  the  olher  half 
to  be  held  until  1909,  Ihe  year  not  only 

Computer  Science  Club 
sets  Sept.  13  meeting 

Ihe  Computer  Science  Club  has 
scheduled  its  first  meeting  of  this 
academic  year  at  3:.30  p.m.,  Tuesday, 
.Sept.  13,  in  Room  321,  Academic 
Center. 

All  new  and  returning  computer 
science  and  computer  operator  students 
are  encouraged  to  attend  Ihe  meetings 
and  to  bring  a  new  member,  according 
to  Charles  E.  Deilrick  club  president 
pro  tempore. 


IN  THE  BOOM  -  Logs  crowd  in  a  typical  Lumber  Era  boom.  Shown  in  the  up- 
per right  corner  of  Ihe  picture  are  the  cribs.  jPliolo  coiirlesy  of  Ihe  James  V. 
Brown  Library,  Pennsylvania  History  Colleclionj 

NpYt  Friday Computer  Science 


is  last  day 
to  add  classes 

The  last  day  for  students  to  add 
classes  is  Friday,  Sept.  2,  according  to 
Connie  R.  Kelsey,  assistant  registrar. 
That  day  is  also  the  deadline  lo  drop 
classes  as  part  of  a  change  lo  Ihe  initial 
class  schedule. 

Drop-add  terminals  will  be  set  up 
in  the  Academic  Center  Student  Lounge 
from  8  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.  Monday 
through  next  Friday,  Sept.  2. 

She  pointed  out  that  drop-add 
students  will  need  a  student  status 
change  form,  available  al  the  drop-add 
terminal  area. 

The  last  day  for  students  to  drop 
classes  without  a  grade  is  Friday,  Sept. 
16. 

Students  who  go  below  full  lime  or 
those  reducing  credits  must  complete  a 
refund  request  form.  This  form  may  be 
picked  up  at  the  Records  Office,  Room 
110,  Academic  Center. 

She  said  the  Records  Office  staff 
stresses  that  all  students  must  have  their 
academic  adviser's  signature  on  the 
status  change  form  in  order  lo  have  Ihe 
drop-add  request  processed. 

Library  fiours  posted 

Hours  fi)r  the  College  Library  for 
this  academic  year  have  been  posted. 
They  are:  Monday  through  Thursday, 
8  a.m.  lo  9  p.m.  and  Friday,  8  a.m.  lo 
4:30  p.m. 


Club  to  sponsor 
Sept.  14  picnic 

The  Computer  Science  Club  is 
sponsoring  a  picnic  on  Wednesday, 
Sept.  14,  for  all  computer  science  and 
computer  operator  students  interested  in 
joining  Ihe  club. 

The  picnic  will  be  from  3  p.m.  until 
dark,  according  lo  Charles  E.  Deilrick, 
club  president  pro  tempore. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  the 
club  and  attending  the  picnic  should  at- 
tend Ihc  club's  meeting  at  3:30  p.m. 
Tuesday,  Sept.  13,  Deilrick  said.  That 
meeting  will  be  in  Room  321,  Academic 
Center. 

Journalism  instructor 
leads  workshop  sessions 

Anthony  N.  Cillo,  a.ssocialc  pro- 
fessor of  journalism,  was  a  member  of 
the  faculty  for  a  weeklong  journalism 
workshop  conducted  by  the  Penn- 
sylvania School  Press  Association  dur- 
ing this  summer. 

The  workshop,  held  al  Ship- 
pcnsburg  University  of  Pennsylvania, 
was  for  high  school  students  from  all 
over  the  slate. 

Cillo's  sessions  focused  on 
newswriting,  editorial  writing,  feature 
writing,  and  layout  and  design.  Ses- 
sions were  held  continuously  each  day, 
beginning  at  8:15  a.m.  and  ending  al 
8:45  p.m. 


Classes  fssue    *    SPOTLIGHT    *    Page  3 

Boom  Festival 
activities  listed; 
Mangione  here 

The  weekend  activities  for  the 
Boom  Festival  are: 

Today.  Friday,  Aug.  26 

Alcomcrs  Dog  Show  -  2  p.m. 

Puppet  Show  -  4  p.m. 

Block  Parly  -  (Downtown 
Williamsporl)  6  p.m.  -  ? 

Good  Time  Charlie  -  8  p.m.  -  II 
p.m.  (Bowman  Field) 

Fireworks  -  9  p.m.  (Downtown 
Williamsporl) 

Tomorrow,  Saturday,  Aug.  27: 

Magic  Show  -  7  p.m.  -  10  p.m. 

W.H.S.  Key  Club  Variety  Show  -6 
p.m.  -  7  p.m. 

Steam  Engine  Meet  -  (Time  to  be 
anuounced) 

Chuck  Mangione  -  (Free  Concert 
-  Brandon  Park)  8  p.m. 

Sunday,  Aug.  28: 

Susquehanna  Boom  Festival 
-Woodsmen's  Rally  -  I  p.m.  ~  ? 

Outing  Club 
meets  Wednesday; 
hikes  planned 

The  Ouling  Club  will  be  active  in 
the  early  pari  of  the  year,  according  to 
■Otttcn  T.-WtDonald,  club  adviser. 

During  Ihe  summer,  the  College 
Ouling  Club,  working  with  Ihe  Penn 
Stale  Ouling  Club  through  efforts  of 
past  club  president  Wayne  Carlisle, 
agreed  to  become  responsible  for  a  sec- 
tion of  the  Mid  State  Trail  System. 

According  to  McDonald,  the  club 
will  act  as  trail  overseers  for  an  8.5 
kilometer  section  of  the  trail  located 
south  of  Raveusburg  Slate  Park. 

As  trail  overseers,  the  club  will  be 
expected  to  make  a  minimum  of  three 
trips  per  year  along  the  trail,  removing 
fallen  trees,  loose  rocks,  and  litter; 
maintaining  paint  blazes,  and  checking 
for  erosion  along  any  trail  switchbacks. 
One  trip  will  be  made  in  the  spring  and 
fall  of  each  year  and  al  least  one  trip 
made  during  Ihe  hiking  season. 

The  club  plans  lo  participate  in  a 
25-milc  hike  along  the  Loyalsock  Trail 
on  Oct.  7,  8,  and  9,  to  benefit  Ihe  Cen- 
tral Pennsytlvania  Lung  and  Health 
Association. 

On  Saturday,  Sept.  17,  the  club 
plans  a  nine-mile  hike  on  the  Golden 
Eagle  Trail. 

Interested  students  should  attend 
Ihc  first  meeliong  of  the  club  al  4  p.m., 
this  coming  Wednesday,  Aug.  31,  in 
Room  227  of  Ihe  Academic  Center, 
McDonald  said. 

Those  students  who  live  out  of  the 
area  or  Ihose  who  cannot  attend  the 
meeting  may  contact  Steven  McDonald 
at  College  Extension  430. 


-      The  Nile  River  in  eastern  Africa  is 
3,405  miles  long. 


Page  4    *    SPOTLICiHT    *    Urn  Day  of  Classes  Iwe    *    Frida>.  Auj.  26.  IM3 


Puttin '  up,  fixin '  up,  cleanin '  up 
highlighted  summer  around  the  College 


™r  *""'"''  """  ""'  '"'"'"''  ^''•*™^"T  Pholosrapher  Lori  M.  Lane  captured  (his  activity  one  day  this 
Streey"*"' ''"     '''"*''''  """i"""!  »"  'he  construction  of  the  new  Lifelong  Education  Center  on  Susquehanna 

Upper  right  -During  tlie  hot  summer  months,  replacement  of  sidewalk  and  other  improvements  were  beins 
made  at  the  front  of  the  Academic  Center,  ^ 

Lower  right  -■  Another  view  of  construction  of  the  Lifelong  Education  Center 

Lower  center  -  Jeff  P.  Horn,  an  employee  of  Yorklown  Sound  and  Communication  Inc..  is  adjusting  wir- 
mg  for  the  sound  system  In  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

Lower  left  --  Norm  C.  Manney  was  painting  In  the  Student  Lounge  In  the  Academic  Center 
\A  review  of  impmvemeiils  K,  llw  Colleges  campuses  is  scheduled  for  nexl  week's  SPOTLIGHT! 


aWfJftWiSrWSWSSSWftSS 


Food/Hospitality 
organization  meets 
Tuesday,  Aug.  30 

The  Fodd  and  Hospiialily  Managc- 
iiK-iil  Sliidciil  Oruaiii/alicin  will  hold  ils 
Ursi  lucciiiig  (if  llii',  aiadciiiif  year  al 
.V30  p.m.,  Tuesday,  in  Room  105, 
Academie  Cenlci . 

The  meciing  is  open  in  all  niemheis 
and  to  sludenls  inleres(cd  in  becom- 
ing niemheis,  aeeoidiiis!  lo  Paliiiia  A. 
Hrimn,  presidenl. 

Miss  lirown,  a  dieielie  leehnieian 
snideni  from  Moiilaiidon,  said  llie 
mceiini!  will  he  used  lor  oruani/aiimi 
and  planiniiL'  loi  ilic  yeai. 

Anion;;  ihc  i^roup's  aeliMiies  lasl 
year  ueie  field  Mips  and  Ihe  donalion  of 
a  iloik  lor  ihe  sludenl  loiinee  in  ihe 
Aeadenm  Ceniei. 


Friday.  Aug.  26,  1983    *    HrsI  Day  of  Classes  Issue    *    SPOTLIGHT    *    Pa(>e  5 

4. 

I 


Two  dielelic  leehnician  sluden(s  mix  cookie  bailer  during  summer  vacalion,  gelling 
ready  for  Ihc  faeully  convocalion  which  marks  Ihe  slarl  of  Ihc  academic  year.  Fran  E. 
Schmohl,  lefl,  of  Cogan  Slalion,  and  Pamela  K.  Aschhman,  of  Williamspiirl,  arc  members 
of  Ihc  food  and  Hospilahly  Managcmenl  Sludenl  Organi/jlion  ISPOl LIGHT  plwio  hv 
Lull  M  Law/ 


Mary  M.  Sinibaldi  appointed 
to  admissions  recruiter  position 

By  Joan  L.  Thompson 
Of  The  .SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

One  of  Ihe  many  faces  lo  appear  on  campus  this  fall  is  ihal  of  Mary  M. 

-WillHillllliy    llliJi  niiiUiuNi  l.nn   hi.M   oHH^H  If.  Ih»  cfarr  ,^f  Ihp   AH,..i.ci,>n^  r|fK-a  p^oH,, 

missions  recruiler.  :<i<f<vK<-:-.::.yo^^-w:y:-\-:<-:-y^^^ 


Safety  emphasis  to  include 
sharp  eye  on  protective  eyewear; 
discounts  available  to  students 


She  hails  from  Si.  Marys  and  has  a 
bachelor's  degree  in  clemenlary  educa- 
tion from  Clarion  Slate  College  and  also 
a  maslcr's  degree  in  sludenl  personnel 
from  Central  Missouri  Stale. 
Will  be  (raveling 

According  lo  Chesler  D.  Schuman, 
direclor  of  admissions,  Ms.  Sinibaldi 
and  Dennis  L.  Dunklebcrger,  assislanl 
director  of  admissions,  will  be  traveling 
throughout  Ihc  coimiionweallh  visiliiig 
high  schools,  college/career  nights  and 
area  vocalional  training  schools  lo 
fainiliari/c  persons  with  Ihc  facilities, 
programs  and  services  of  ihe 
Willianisporl  Area  Comnumily  College. 

In  addition,  Ms.  Sinibaldi  will  be 
visiling  industrial  arts  conferences,  farm 
shows,  PcnnsyKania  vocational  ednca- 
lional  conferences,  national  conferences 
held   within    Ihc  commonwealth,   and 

workshops  held  al   Ihc  College  for  high      ^:: :•:■:•:::■:■:■:•:■:■:■:■:■:■:•:■:■:■:•:■:•:■:•:•:■:-:■:-; x :.::■:■ 

schools  and  slate  agencies. 
To  updale  high  school  personnel        /^^^^   ^p    fjjl^^^ 

Tcnalive    bookings    fi,ir    Ihe    '~" 


City  bus  passes 
now  available 

Williamsport  Bureau  of 
Transportation  bus  passes  are 
available  from  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural sports  and  College  ac- 
tivities, on  the  first  floor  of  Bardo 
Gym. 

Students  must  show  student 
identification  to  receive  a  pa.ss, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

Students  who  previously  had 
bus  passes  do  not  need  to  get  new 
ones,  but  do  need  to  gel  Ihe  pass 
validated  by  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Both  bus  passes  and  valida- 
lion  are  free,  said  MrS;  Fremiotti. 


fall 

.semester  are  288  percent  over  lasl  year, 
Schuman  said. 

Along  wilh  her  traveling  duties  Ms. 
Sinibaldi  will  conduct  interviews  and 
daily  appoinlmenis,  he  added. 

"The  week  of  Labor  Day  her 
traveling  .schedule  begins.  She  will 
travel  to  local  high  schools  lo  refurbish 
our  display  racks  and  lo  bring 
eoun.selors  up  lo  dale  on  events  that 
have  occurred  on  campus,"  he  conclud- 
ed. 


says  security  officer 

Anyone  operating  bicycles  on  cam- 
pus must  use  Ihe  bicycle  racks,  accor- 
ding to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  supervisor 
of  security,  because  bikes  cannot  be 
taken  into  the  buildings  or  chained  to 
objects  on  College  properly  (other  than 
Ihe  racks). 

Bicycle  racks  arc  located  al  the  east 
side  of  Ihe  Learning  Resources  Center, 
.south  of  the  Administration  Building, 
and  cast  of  the  Academic  Center. 


Beginning  this  semesler,  intensified 
LliilllBmWIl  iww;  aguiiinimimin  k 

made  in  Ihe  vocal ionarshops  at  the  Col- 
lege, mainly  lo  meet  Occupational  Safe- 
ly and  Health  Administration  (OSHA) 
guidelines. 

Although  the  College  is  not  re- 
quired by  law  to  impo.se  these  OSHA 
guidelines  and  although  the  College 
routinely  follows  safely  regulations,  il 
was  believed  lo  implemenl  OSHA 
guidelines  would  be  beneficial  in  order 
to  improve  working  conditions. 

This  also  stimulates  an  actual 
working  environment  by  complying  wilh 
OSHA  standards,  according  lo  William 
J.  Martin,  direclor  of  the  secondary 
vocational  programs. 

The  most  common  salcly  regula- 
tion pertains  lo  proper  apparel  -  mainly 
eyewear  -  according  lo  Martin. 

Martin  added  that  those  sludenls 
inlercsled  in  obtaining  prescription 
eyewear  may  do  so  through  hical  opii- 
cians.  He  said  the  College  has  arranged 

Sludenl  handbook-calendar 
ready  to  be  picked  up 

The  Student  Handbook  and  Calen- 
dar for  the  current  academic  year  is 
complcled  and  may  be  picked  up  al 
various  locations  throughout  the  cam- 
pus, according  lo  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
sports  and  College  activities. 

The  publication  includes  a  variety 
of  informalion  and  shows  dales  of  plan- 
ned activities  for  the  year. 


a  II)  pcrcciil  disciHiiil  lo  College 
.sluiiciilii  with  College  ID  al  Price  Op- 
tical of  Williamsport  and  at  Eye 
Associates  of  Jersey  Shore.  Price  incen- 
tives, he  said,  are  also  in  elTect  al  Gram- 
pian Opticians  in  Williamsport. 


The  Eiffel  To 
teet  high. 


cr  in  Paris  is  984 


Need  a  Ride? 

Want  to  Share 

A  Ride? 

• 

Come  to  SPOTLIGHT 

Office 

Room  7,  Basement, 

Academic  Center 

and  leave  information! 

• 

A  list  of  Rides  Wanted 

and  Riders  Wanted 

will  be  published 

next  week. 

• 

This  FREE  listing  is  provid- 
ed by  The  SPOTLIGHT  as  a 
campus  service. 


Paiiei    *    SPOTLIGHT    *    FirsI  Day  of  Classes  Issue    *    Friday,  Ao|;.  26.  IVM 


Parking,  parking,  parking: 
new  student  lot  established 
stickers  now  available 


All  vcliiilcs  ii^liii'  ilie  ( i>lli'i;c  p:irk- 
iiig  JDls  miiM  i\\\\i\<\\  a  iiirii'iii  (Dllctc 
parking  sliikcr  on  the  riglil  rear  bumper 
aciDrding  lo  lawrcmv  P.  Snicak, 
supervisor  of  securily. 

Slickers  may  be  oblaincd  ai  llic 
Scturily  Offiec,  lucaled  al  the  fool  of 
Park  Street,  between  8  a.m.  and  4  p.m., 
Miniday  through  l-'riday,  Sincak  said. 

Smcak  added  that  a  $25  fine  will  be 
levied  on  anyone  who  does  not  have  a 
slicker  displayed  on  his/her  vehicle  or 
who  has  parked  in  an  area  designed  for 
handicapped  persons. 

Bh'cking  doors  or  other  vehicles 
will  resiill  in  a  $10  fine,  he  said. 
Anycnie  who  parks  in  a  reslriclcd  area 
or  in  a  "blue  slicker  parking  lot" 
without  proper  idem iHcal ion  will  be  fin- 
ed $5,  Snieak  said. 

New  liil  on  Susquehanna  Slreel 
All  fines  are  payable  al  the  Security 
Office  any  lime  bclwcen  8  a.m.  and  4 
p.m.,  Monday  Ihrongh  Friday,  he  said. 
A  new  siudcnt  parking  lot  has  been 
established  al  the  fool  of  Susquehanna 
.Street,  south  of  the  Automotive  Trades 


Accident  insurance  available  -- 
but  is  individual's  responsibility 


The  College  will  not  be  carrying  an 
insurance  policy  for  its  .students  during 
ihc  1983-84  academic  year,  according  to 
Donald  S,  Shade,  director  of  financial 
aid. 

However,  the  CollcfLc  has  made 
available  an  "aceidcnl  and  insurance 
plan"  which  is  vohmlary  and  is 
available  lo  all  poslsccondary  students 
enrolled  for  seven  credit  hours  or  more. 

Insurance  will  be  each  individual 
student's  responsibility. 

The  coverage  will  be  in  effect  for 


Interest  rate 
on  student  loans 
to  be  8  percent 

Interest  rales  on  Guaranleed 
Student  Loans  will  be  8  percent 
beginning  Sept.  13,  according  to 
Donald  S.  Shade,  director  of 
financial  aid.  Only  those  students 
who  are  borrowing  for  the  first 
time  and  whose  period  of  enroll- 
ment begins  on  or  after  Sept.  13, 
1983  will  be  eligible  for  8  percent 
loans. 

Any  students  who  have 
previously  borrowed  al  7  percent 
or  9  percent  will  continue  al  that 
rate,  and  loans  made  to  new  bor- 
rowers for  periods  of  enrollment 
prior  lo  Sept.  13  will  be  at  9  per- 
cent interest. 

There  is  currently  no  provi- 
sion in  the  law  which  would  per- 
mit the  8  percent  rate  lo  change 
based  upon  future  fiucluations  in 
interest  rates. 


one  year,  with  the  premium  being 
$84.50.  The  activation  date  of  the  in 
surance  is  Aug.  26,  1983  or  I  he  dale  nl 
the  student's  application,  and  the  date 
full  payment  is  received  by  Ihe  insurance 
company.  DcUivs  in  makim;  appUt.Hm\i 
will  result  In  a  shorter  period  of 
coverage  with  the  premium  rcmainniE 
Ihe  same. 

Additional  information  niul 
brochures  are  available  in  Ihe  Financial 
Aid  Office,  Room  201,  Academic 
Ccnier. 

Don't  leave 
valuables  lay  about 
says  security  chief 

Studcnis  arc  reminded  nol  lo  leave 
anything  valuable  laying  around,  accor- 
ding to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  supervisor 
of  security. 

"If  yini  Ikivc  something  of  value, 
dcm't  walk  away  from  it,"  Smeak  said. 

Apartments  should  be  kept  locked 
and  students  should  know  their  fellow 
occupants  and  all  who  come  into  thcii 
building.  If  any  student  sees  a  stranger 
aiinmd  the  building,  that  student. 
Smcak  said,  is  urged  lo  call  the  local 
jiolicc. 

All  students  arc  reminded,  loo,  he 
said,  lo  keep  their  cars  hickcd  and  lo 
not  go  out  alone  al  nighl.  Smcak  said 
he  is  urging  sludcnls  to  use  Ihc  "bnddv 
syslem"  and  lo  use  well-lighled  sirecls. 

Closed  an  hour  a  week 

The  Financial  Aid  Office  will  be 
closed  from  8  a.m.  to  9  a.m.  every 
Tuesday  during  the  Fall  semester. 


(enter  Ihc  parkmu  loi  will  ai- 
loniodale  over  500  Mlmles,  Smcak 
nolcd 

Oihet  parking  aicas  cm  campus 
are: 

-  Metal  Trades  Center,  north  and 
west  sides. 

-  Administration  Building,  east 
side,  south  of  the  driveway  enlrancc; 
south  side,  and  also  ihe  dirt  area  along 
the  playfield. 

The  blue  sticker  parking  areas  are: 

-Academic  Center,  east  side. 

-Administration  and  Building 
Trades  Center,  iiorlh  (lacing  West  fhird 
Street). 

-Admiiiislralion  Building,  east 
side  and  norlh  of  Ihe  driveway  entrance. 

-Aulomolivc  Trades  Center, 
annmd  the  Iciiced  area. 

-lechiiical  fradcs  Dmldings  I 
Ihrongh  IV,  lo  ihc  rear. 

Kiir  c«ns(r(ielii>n  (vorkcrs 

Smeak  emphasized  ihal  Ihc  area  on 
Ihe  easi  side  of  SiiMjiichaima  Strcel  and 
sonlh  of  Ihc  railroad  tracks  is  for  park- 
ing by  c(nislriicli(ni  personnel  only. 


NOT  QUI  IK  I'AC-MAN,  BUT  -  Complcling  scheduling  and  regislralion  in  (he 
Academic  Cenler  s(udenl  lounge  is  Alice  M.  White,  a  general  sludies  student 
from  Wllliainsporl,  Staffing  Ihe  conipuler-slalion  are  Mrs.  Bonnie  M,  Powell, 
eenler,  secretary  for  Ihe  Humanities  and  Commnnlealion  Arts  Division,  and  Mrs. 
Matilda  S.  Elmer,  left.  Career  Placement  Office  secretary.  /SPOTLICHT plinlo 
In-  I  mi  M.  Liiiici 


First  Meeting  for  Students 

Interested  in  Joining 

OUTING  CLUB 

4  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Aug.  31 

Room  227,  Academic  Center 


As  a  rcsull  of  inlcrcsl  expressed  by  members  of  ihc  College  faculry,  a 
women's  organization  --  now  known  as  Ihc  Women's  Forum  of  The 
Willianisporl  Area  Commiinily  College  --  has  been  eslablished  Ihis 
academic  year. 

The  group  was  started  as  a  means  to  encourage  more  involvcnieni  by 
sliidenis  in  areas  related  to  women  -  such  as  Women's  Week  which  is  held 
annually  at  Ihc  College  --  according  lo  Miss  Virginia  M.  Trowbridge,  one 
of  the  group's  advisers. 
Purpose  nullined 

The  purpose  of  the  group,  as  staled  in  ils  consliiuiion,  is  lo  act  as  a 
support  group  and  iiifornialion  center  for  the  personal  and  professional 
development  of  sludcius.  faculty,  and  slalT,  by  providing  moral  support 
and  encouragemcnl,  and  lo  develop  a  coping  mechanism  for  the  slndenls, 
faculty  and  staff  by  fostering  indcpcMdcncc  and  growih,  cnhancini;  and  en- 


Kridai.  Auk.  26.  IW     ♦     Unl  Day  nf  Chsm  h«ie    *    SPOTLIGHT     ♦     Page  7 

Women's  organization  established 
at  the  College:  Women's  Forum 

coiiraging  capabilities  and  developing  self-sufficiency.  I 

The  forerunner  of  Women's  Forum  of  The  Willianisporl  Area  Com-      I 
munity  College  was  known  as  Women's  Orgaiii/alion  and  served  as  a      '^' 
model  during  its  development.  The  conslitulion  of  the  Women's  Organiza-      i 
tion  was  completely  reconslrucled,  however,  lo  accomodate  the  needs  of 
the  new  club,  added  Miss  Trowbridge. 
Proposed  projects  lisled  '', 

Proposed  projecis  for  the  upcoming  semester  include  a  raffle  and  a 
workshop  on  women's  concerns.  The  spring  semester  will  include  a  used 
book  sale  during  the  College's  Open  House.  Arrangements  arc  also  being 
made  for  Women's  Week,  according  to  Miss  Trowbridge. 

Advisers  and  officers  for  the  club  will  hold  an  organizational  meeting 
at  1 1  :.W  a.m.  next  Wednesday  in  Ihc  gym.  Miss  Trowbridge  concluded  by 
adding  that  open  mceling.s  would  be  held  monthly  after  this  one.  i| 


Sports  Notes 

Two  intercollegiate  sports  are 
on  this  fall's  sports  .schedule,  ac- 
cording to  Harry  C.  Specht,  coor- 
dinator of  intercollegiate  athletics. 
They  are  cross-country  and  golf. 
*     •     * 

Students  can  star!  looking  for 
team  members  lo  pa/ticipale  in  in- 
tramural sports,  according  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  sports  and 
College  activities.  Details  about 
intramural  sports  will  be  announc- 
ed, she  said. 

Student  ID's  mailed 

All    stLidcnl     idenlificalioii    cards 
have  been  mailed  lo  full-lime  students, 

according  lo  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolli,  

coordinator  of  intramural  sports  and    Aivn  thig  vmoo     i 

College  activities  e    •                        "         ^^^'  *  "'•'""''  champion  of  the  Litlle  League  World 

A  $2  fee  will  be  chareed  lo  sindpnis  T.^'?  T  "'*'  """  '"""  *^'"*^^»<*^-  Wash.,  who  defeated  Tiawan,  6-0.  The  final 

who  do  nmhlve  an  S  Se  said  ZlM^-tleT  ''  '""'"""  '"  """'  ^'''""'''"'-  I'^OTLIGHT  pl,o,o  by 


Where  is... 


Mosquito  Valley 

Bottle  Run 

Wildwood  Cemetery 


Grange  Hill 
Bidelspacher  Ponds    O 
Grampian  Hills    « 


Find  Out  on...         Tuesday,  Aug.  30 

at  4  P.M. 
Gym  -  First  Floor  Classroom 


f=First  Meeting  for   MEN  AND  WOMEN=ii 

Who  Are  Interested  in 


X-C  RUNNING 


No  Experience  Necessary 
If  Unable  to  Attend,  Contact: 
^^_^^_     Phil  Landers    Room  307  Academic  Center 


Little  League 
World  Series 
nears  climax 

With  the  week  coming  lo  a  close, 
the  Little  Leage  World  Series  action  is 
reaching  a  climax. 

Games  are  played  at  the  Little 
League  Complex  in  South  Williamsporl. 
Special  Litlle  League  bus  service  is  being 
provided  by  the  Williamsporl  city  bus 
system. 

Today's  aclion  includes  a  conso\a- 
lii'o  game,  starling  ai  4  p.m.  The  game 
Icaiures  losers  of  the  semifinal  game 
«liich  was  yesterday. 

Also  on  today's  schedule  is  a  game 
featured  in  the  loser's  bracket. 
Championship  lomorrow 
Tomorrow,  Little  League  World 
Series  action  will  end  for  another  year 
with  the  championship  game  starling  a( 
2  p.m. 

The  teams  and  the  areas  they  repre- 
sent are: 

Jackie  Robinson  Little  League  of 
Chicago,  III.  (Central  United  Stales); 
East  Marietta  National  Little  League  of 
Mariella,  Ga.  (Southern  United  Stales); 
Stamford  American  Little  League  of 
Stamford,  Conn.  (Eastern  United 
Slates);  Norlh  Sacramento,  Calif. 
(Western  United  States);  Osaka,  Japan 
(Far  East);  Al  Khobar,  Saudi  Arabia 
(Europe);  Sherbrooke  Fleurimont  Little 
League  of  Sherbrooke,  Quebec 
(Canada),  and  Barahona,  Dominican 
Republic  (Latin  America). 

The  team  from  Japan  is  making  the 
first  appearance  by  a  Japanese  team  in 
seven  years. 

In  last  year's  championship  game, 
the  Far  East  team  from  Taiwan  lost  6-0 
to  a  team  from  Kirkland,  Wash.  The 
latter  team  was  led  in  hitting  and  pit- 
ching by  Cody  Webster. 


Mark  Twain  once  said;  "The  dif- 
ference between  the  right  word  and  the 
almost  right  word  is  the  difference  bet- 
ween lihtning  and  the  lightning  bug. 


PaeeS    *    SPOTLIGHT    *    Urti  Dm  nf  Clmsei  hwe    *    Friday,  Auj.  26.  1983 


What  building  did  you  say 
my  10  o'clock  is  in? 

Campus  map  shows  new  designations  for  buildings 


KEY  TO  BUILDING  ABBREVIATIONS 


ATC 

Automotive  Trades  Center 

DC 

Diesel  Center 

TTC 

Technical  Trades  Center 

TT1 

TT2 

TT4 

MTC 

Metal  Trades  Center 

ACC 

Academic  Center 

GYM 

Gymnasium 

LRC 

Learning  Resources  Center 

BTC 

Building  Trades  Center 

ADM 

Administration 

CTC 

Civil  Technology  Center 

GS 

General  Services 

W 

Warehouse 

AVC 

Aviation  Center 

ESC 

Earth  Science  Center 

CAMPUS 

MAP 

TOIJR  DURING  SKMINAR  -  Pardcipanis  in  a  t'dlleKc-sponsiircd  diesel-rclalcd  seminar  Inured  Ciille|;c 
lacilKles  during  llie  day-long  event.  Gary  Wenlzel,  cenler,  a  parl-linie  facully  member,  was  among  College  per- 
sonnel providing  Intormalion  In  visitors.  /SPOTLIGHT  plwui  br  Lori  4/  Lane/ 


SGA  Office  now  located  in... 
Room  202,  Academic  Center 


Ideas,  Suggestions  Wanted 
Students  Wanted  to  Get  Involved 


'Diesel  seminar' 
attracts  participants 
from  wide  area 

A  Seminar  for  Dicscl-Rclaicd  Oc- 
cupalioiis  was  .spoiisdrcd  by  Ihc  College 
lasl  Thursday,  Aug.  18.  Parlicipanis 
came  from  Pennsylvania,  Oliio, 
Maryland,  New  Jersey,  and  Wisconsin. 

The  primary  pnrposc  of  Ihc 
seminar  was  to  provide  a  siruclnrcd 
forum  Ihrough  which  induslry  and  Col- 
lege rcprcscnialivcs  could  assess  Ihe 
need  for  dicsel-rclaled  occupations. 

Particular  focus  was  on  dicsci  and 
multi-fuel  related  occupations  as  they 
apply  to  different  industries,  specific  ap- 
plications wilhin  each  induslry,  and  the 
future  implicali(m  for  dics'el  and  multi- 
fuel  technologies. 

Prior  to  the  seminar,  William  H. 
Debolt,  director  of  the  College's 
Transporlalicm  Technoh)gics  Division, 
^,nd  Ihc  seminar  would  provide  a  forum 
in  which  users,  manufacturers,  and  sup- 
pliers of  heavy  engines  and  related 
equipment  could  identify  skills  and 
technologies  which  would  be  needed  by 
those  persons  who  will  be  operating, 
maintaining,  and  repairing  heavy 
engines  and  equipment. 


Zabaglione  is  a  dessert  consisling 
of  egg  yolks,  sugar,  and  wine  beaten  un- 
til thick  and  served  hot  or  cold. 


mm%mxfxf»s-'i 


7M:«<':'K''yXa&'X'/A'//////r, 


Special  report  on  financial  aid  -  See  Page  2 


As  more  and  more  students 

have  turned  to 

federal  and  state  sources 

to  assist  them 

in  financing  a  college  education, 

increased  emphasis 

has  been  placed  on  the  issue 

of  tying  financial  aid  eligibility 

to  academic  success. 


All  schools  now  are  required  to  develop 

some  standard  of  satisfactory 

academic  progress 

for  their  financial  aid  recipients 

and  must  apply  that  standard 

prior  to  awarding  funds 

to  any  student. 

The  Williamsport  Area 

Community  College 

has  developed  such  a  standard 


A  Special  Report 

By  Donald  S.  Shade 

Director  of  Financial  Aid 


Spotlight 

Tuesday,  Sept.  6,  1983    •    Vol.  19.  No.  2    •    4  Pages 
Williamsporl  Area  Communily  College    •    WillJam<iporl,  Pa.  17701 


'Student  Acquaintance  Festival' 
success  says  Committee  member 


The  "Student  Acquaintance 
Festival"  held  Tuesday,  Wednesday, 
and  Thursday  of  last  week,  "was  rather 
successful",  said  Thomas  (Thorn)  A. 
Marino,  spokesperson  for  the  Transi- 
tion Committee  of  the  Student  Govern- 
"Tticnt  Association  (SOA). 

"Apparently,  there  were  students 
who  enjoyed  the  entertainment.  I 
received  comments  from  students  saying 
they  were  pleased  with  the  SGA  having 
some  activities  the  first  few  days  of 
classes,"  Marino  said. 

Kathleen  Radspinner  and  Lester 
Hirsh  from  Hughesville  of  the  folk 
group,  Jerusalem,  performed  from  11 
a.m.  to  2  p.m.,  Tuesday  on  the  quad  in 
front  of  the  Academic  Center.  Free  iced 
tea  was  offered  for  refreshment. 

Various  clubs  and  organizations 
had  booths  from  II  a.m.  to  2  p.m.  on 
Wednesday  to  familiarize  students  with 
their  activities. 

Paying  a  return  visit,  Marty  Bear 
ended  the  festival  by  performing  from  II 
a.m.  to  1  p.m.,  Thursday  on  the  quad  in 
front  of  the  Academic  Center.     Ice 


MARV  M.  SINIBALDI 

...on  the  road... 


cream  was  served  for  25  cents  a  scoop. 
Marino  thanked  the  student  body 
for  keeping  the  quad  clean.  Further  ef- 
forts will  be  greatly  appreciated,  said 
Marino. 

New  admissions 
recruiter  making 
high  school  visits 

Area  high  schools  will  be  visited 
this  week  by  Mary  M.  Sinibaldi,  admis- 
sion recruiter  for  the  College.  Ms. 
Sinibaldi  will  be  talking  with  counselors 
and  refurbishing  displays. 

Her  schedule  for  fall  semester  will 
take  her  to  37  counties  within  the  com- 
monwealth, with  various  stops  in  each 
county. 

Dennis  L.  Dunkleberger,  assistant 
director  of  admissions,  will  also  be 
traveling  to  different  areas  of  the  state 
on  the  recruiting  tour. 

According  to  Chester  D.  Schuman. 
director  of  admissions,  every  county  in 
the  commonwealth  will  be  covered  by 
the  two. 

Tenativc  bookings  for  the  fall 
semester  are  288  percent  over  last  year, 
Schuman  said. 

The  increase  in  visits  to  high 
schools  alone  is  148  this  year  compared 
to  35  last  year.  College  orientation  pro- 
grams are  up  to  44  from  20  last  year. 

There  are  80  area  vocational- 
technical  schools  in  the  state.  All  of 
them  will  be  visited  during  the  semester, 
last  year  15  were  visited,  he  said. 


LATE    REPORT   -  Sigma    Pi 

Omega  Sorority  will  hold  its  first 
organizational  meeting  for  the 
academic  year  at  6:30  p.m.,  Thursday 


Folk  group  Jerusalem  performed  in  front  of  the  Academic  Center  last  Tues- 
day. The  duo  includes  Kathleen  Radspinner  and  Lester  Hirsh.  (SPOTLIGHT 
photo  by  Lori  M.    Lane) 


Phi  Beta  Lambda 
to  hold  picnic 

The  ninth  annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  picnic-buffet  supper  will  be  held 
4  p.m.,  next  Wednesday  at  the  home  of 
Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  club  adviser,  1513 
Elmira  St.,  Williamsport. 

Sport  activities,  such  as  volleyball 
and  touch  football,  will  be  part  of  the 
agenda  with  "lots  of  food",  said 
Goldfeder. 

All  business  and  computer  science 
students  have  been  invited  to  attend  the 
picnic,  added  Goldfeder. 

A  committee  has  been  formed  to 
organize  the  picnic.  The  chairperson  is 
Doree  M.  Snyder,  a  computer  science 
student  from  Montoursville. 

Goldfeder  also  said  that  PBL  will 
hold  its  first  meeting  at  4  p.m.,  tomor- 
row in  Room  329,  Academic  Center. 
New  officers  will  be  Introduced  at  that 
meeting. 


in  Room  105,  Academic  Center,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  club  ad- 
viser. Meeting  open  to  anyone  in- 
terested in  joining. 


Cross-country,  golf 
teams  still  'open' 

Fifteen  persons  attended  the  cross- 
country meeting  last  Tuesday,  according 
to  Harry  C.  Specht,  coordinator  of  in- 
tercollegiate athletics. 

Ten  persons  attended  the  golf 
meeting  last  Tuesday,  added  Specht. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  either 
the  cross-country  or  golf  team  may  con- 
tact Specht  on  the  first  floor  of  the  Bar- 
do  Gym  or  cross-country  coach,  Phillip 
D.  Landers  in  Room  307  of  the 
Academic  Center. 

New,  returning  students 
being  invited  to  meeting 
of  Computer  Science  Club 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
hold  its  first  meeting  of  the  new 
academic  year  at  3:30  p.m.  next  Tues- 
day in  Room  321,  Academic  Center. 

All  new  and  returning  computer 
science  and  computer  operator  students 
are  being  encouraged  to  attend  the 
meeting  and  to  bring  a  new  member,  ac- 
cording to  Charles  E.  Deitrick,  club 
president  pro  tempore. 


SPOTLIGHT       Tuesday,  Sepl.  6, 19M 


Special  report  on  financial  aid 


The  Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Financial  Aid  Office 

Policy  on  Satisfactory  Academic  Progress 

The  following  policy  shall  apply  lo  all  sludenls  receiving  financial  aid  from 
federal  or  slale  student  assistance  programs: 

Federal  Programs  (Pell/SEOG/College  Work  Sludy/Guaranleed  Sludenl  Loan/Plus 
Loan):  A  full-lime  sludenl  who  receives  aid  from  the  Pell,  SEOG,  or  College  Work 
Study  Programs  must  make  satisfactory  academic  progress  in  order  lo  continue  to 
be  eligible  for  aid. 

Sludenl  shall  be  considered  lo  be  making  satisfactory  progress  if,  based  on 
academic  achievement,  the  College  allows  them  to  continue  their  enrollment,  pro- 
vided thai  they  successfully  complete  at  least  twenty-four  credits  by  the  end  of  the 
first  academic  year. 

Students  whose  cumulative  grade  point  average  falls  below  2.00  will  be  placed 
on  academic  probation,  and  a  decision  on  their  continued  enrollment  will  be  made 
by  the  Probation  Committee.  Students  may  continue  to  receive  aid  while  on 
academic  probation,  and  are  also  subject  to  Ihe  previously-stated  twenty-four  credit 
requirement. 

After  receiving  aid  for  the  fourth  semester  of  a  two-year  program  or  the  second 
semester  of  a  one-year  program,  the  sludenl  will  not  be  eligible  for  additional  aid 
until  after  graduation  from  Ihe  program. 

In  addition,  any  student  who  changes  programs  two  or  more  times  will  be 
determined  ineligible  pending  further  review. 

Any  part-time  sludenl  who  receives  aid  and  who  fails,  withdraws  from,  or 
receives  an  incomplete  in  two  or  more  courses  in  which  he/she  was  enrolled  during 
an  academic  year  (or  Ihe  equivalent)  shall  be  ineligible  for  further  aid  until  he/she 
completes  courses  equivalent  in  credits  to  the  number  which  were  not  successfully 
completed.  Credits  earned  through  advanced  placement  or  life  experience  and  ex- 
ternal transfer  credits  may  be  used  to  fulfill  graduation  requirements,  but  may  not 
be  included  in  the  number  needed  for  satisfactory  progress  for  financial  aid  pur- 
poses. 

Sludenl  determined  to  be  ineligible  for  additional  aid  may  appeal  this 
determinalion  by  writing  lo  Ihe  Director  of  Financial  Aid  or  his/her 
designee,  .staling  the  basis  for  appeal. 

Exceptions  may  be  made  based  on  extenualing  circumstances  in- 
cluding, but  not  limited  lo,  documented  illness,  change  of  program,  or  the 
required  completion  of  Developmental  Studies  courses. 

The  Director  or  designee  will  inform  the  student  in  writing  of  the  deci- 
sion, specifying  the  duration  of  time  or  other  conditions  under  which  an 
exception  has  been  made,  or  explaining  Ihe  reason  for  denying  Ihe  appeal 
and  detailing  the  actions  necessary  for  the  sludenl  to  regain  eligibility. 

A  student  may  request  a  review  of  decision  in  a  meeting  of  the  stu- 
dent, the  Director  of  Financial  Aid,  and  the  Dean  of  Sludenl  Develop- 
ment. 

Slale  Program  (PHEAA):  PHEAA  regulations  provide  that  for  each  year 
of  a  PHEAA  Grant,  a  student  must  successfully  complete  twenty-four 
credits  or  be  ineligible  lo  receive  additional  grants.  Appeals  must  be  made 
directly  lo  PHEAA.   This  policy  is  subject  lo  revision  by  PHEAA. 

Highlights  and  Changes 

1.  Full-time  students  must  earn  al  least  24  credits  per  year  to  maintain 
eligibility. 

2.  Credits  earned  through  advanced  placement,  life  experience,  or  transfer 
may  not  be  included  in  this  total. 

3.  No  student  will  receive  more  than  four  semesters  of  aid  in  one  program. 

4.  After  receiving  aid  for  the  final  semester  of  a  program,  no  student  will 
receive  additional  aid  unlil  after  graduation  from  that  program. 

In  Ihe  past,  students  not  meeting  graduation  requirements  would  simply 
change  programs  (to  General  Studies,  for  instance),  receive  aid  for  that  semester, 
and  lake  coursework  needed  to  graduate  in  Ihe  original  program.  This  will  no 
longer  be  possible. 

5.  Any  student  who  changes  programs  two  or  more  limes  will  be  determined 
ineligible  pending  further  review.  This  has  been  added  lo  Ihe  policy  lo  encourage 
students  lo  seek  proper  academic  and  career  counseling  prior  lo  changing  pro- 
grams. 

6.  Any  student  determined  to  be  ineligible  for  aid  may  appeal  this  determina- 
tion by  writing  to  the  Director  of  Financial  Aid  staling  the  basis  for  the  appeal. 


Some  Questions  and  Answers 

If  I  withdraw  from  a  course,  will  it  count  againsi  me? 

•  For  purposes  of  satisfactory  progress,  a  withdrawal  is  the  same  as  a 
failure  in  that  no  credits  have  been  completed. 

The  grade   assigned   lo   the   course   (W,   WP,   or   WF)   is   irrelevant. 
Therefore,   course   withdrawal   would   count   againsi   you   if  it   reduces   the 
amount  oi  completed  credits  lo  less  than  24  for  the  first  year. 

Before  you  withdraw  from  any  course,  you  should  contact  Ihe  Finan- 
cial Aid  Office  to  see  if  this  action  will  affect  your  current  or  future 
eligibility. 

What  happens  if  I  repeat  a  course  I've  already  taken? 
•*■  Repeating  coures  is  acceptable  as  long  as  you  earn  at  least  24  credits, 
keeping  in  mind  that  your  credits  only  count  once.     If  you  have  attempted 
24  credits  but  repealed  a  three  credit  course,  you  will  have  completed  jusi 
21  credits  and  will  not  have  made  satisfactory  progress. 

What  happens  if  I  change  programs? 

•  Changing  programs  will  not  make  you  ineligible  for  aid.  However,  for 
students  changing  two  or  more  times  (meaning  ihey  are  entering  their  third 
new  program),  there  may  be  some  question  as  lo  whether  or  not  they  are 
serious  about  getting  an  education,  and  their  aid  would  be  withheld  pen- 
ding further  review. 

Before  changing  programs,  you  should  meet  with  your  academic  ad- 
viser, the  Counseling  Center,  and  the  Financial  Aid  Office. 

If  I  graduate,  can  J  come  back  in  a  new  program  and  still  get  aid? 

•  Yes,  this  acceptable  as  long  as  you  do  not  exceed  the  maximum  of  four 
years  for  grants  and  $12,500  for  loans. 

Students  may  borrow  $2,500  per  academic  level.  If  I  have  borrowed  only 
$1,500  for  my  first  academic  level,  did  not  make  satisfactory  progress, 
and  an  therefore  still  considered  a  first  academic  level  student,  can  I  bor- 
row the  other  $1,000? 

•  No.  If  you  are  not  making  satisfactory  progress,  you  are  not  entitled  to 
the  remaining  $1,000.  Once  you  have  made  progress  (earned  at  least  24 
credits)  your  eligibility  would  be  reinstated. 

If  I  have  not  made  satisfactory  progress  but  have  never  received  financial  aid,  am 
I  still  eligible? 

•  No.  Your  entire  academic  history  at  the  College  will  be  reviewed  and  if  you  are 
not  making  progress  you  will  not  be  eligible. 

Whafs  the  difference  between  satisfactory  progress  and  academic  probation? 

•  Satisfactory  progress  is  related  lo  the  number  of  credits  a  student  earns,  whereas 
academic  probation  deals  with  the  student's  Grade  Point  Average  (GPA). 

Sludenls  whose  GPA  falls  below  2.0  are  placed  on  academic  probation,  but 
are  slill  eligible  for  aid  provided  they  have  earned  al  least  24  credits  for  their'  first 
year. 

For  example,  if  a  full-time  student  earns  28  credits  with  a  GPA  of  1.8,  he 
would  be  placed  on  academic  probation  but  would  have  made  satisfactory  progress. 
However,  a  full-time  sludenl  who  earns  21  credits  with  a  GPA  of  3.5  would  not  be 
placed  on  probation  but  would  not  have  made  progress.  Therefore,  it  is  important 
lo  be  concerned  with  both  the  number  of  credits  you  earn  and  your  GPA. 

Are  there  any  exceptions  to  the  Policy  on  Satisfactory  Academic  Progress? 

•  Exceptions  may  be  made  based  on  extenuating  circumstances  including 
documented  physical,  mental,  or  emotional  problems,  change  of  program,  or  the 
required  completion  of  developmental  coursework. 


These  are  Just  a  few  of  the  more  common  questions  and  situations  which  arise.  If 
you  have  any  questions  about  satisfactory  progress  and  your  eligibility  for  aid,  or 
are  about  to  drop  a  course,  change  programs,  or  otherwise  change  your  academic 
plans,  contact  the  Financial  Aid  Office  immediately. 


Women 's  Week  planning 
session  to  be  tomorrow 

A  meeting  to  make  plans  for 
Women's  Week  will  be  held  at 
11:30  a.m.  tomorrow  in  the  office 
of  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  sports 
and  College  activities,  on  the  first 
fioor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

Any  interested  persons  may 
attend,  according  to  Virginia  M. 
Trowbridge,  an  adviser  of  the 
Women's  Forum  of  the  College. 
She  added  she  is  "encouraging" 
anyone  with  questions  about  or  an 
interest  in  Women's  Week  to  at- 
tend the  session. 


Alpha  Omega 
Fellowship  sponsors 
concert  next  week 

A  concert  featuring  Mylon  LeFcvre 
and  Broken  Heart  will  be  given  at  7:30 
p.m.,  next  Tuesday,  Sept.  13  in  the 
Scottish  Rite  Auditorium,  348  Market 
Si.,  in  downtown  Williamsport.  Alpha 
Omega  Fellowship  of  the  College  is 
helping  sponsor  the  concert. 

The  two-hour  concert  presented  by 
Morningstar  Ministries  will  open  with 
Christian  Stephens.  LeFevre  has  per- 
formed both  on  record  and  stage  with 
various  rock  musicians  such  as  Billy 
Joel,  George  Harrison,  Eric  Clapton  , 
Kerry  Livgren  of  Kansas,  The  Who, 
Willie  Nelson,  Lynyrd  Skynrd,  and 
Charlie  Daniels. 

Tickets  are  $5  in  advance  and  $6  at 
the  door.  Advanced  group  rates  are  $4 
for  groups  of  10  or  more  persons. 
Tickets  may  be  purchased  in  the 
Academic  Center  lobby  today  through 
next  Tuesday,  from  II  a.m.  to  1  p.m. 

Tickets  may  be  obtained  at  local 
Christian  bookstores  or  by  sending  a 
check  or  money  order  and  self- 
addressed,  stamped  envelope  to:  Morn- 
ingstar Ministries,  720  Lincoln  Ave., 
Williamsport,  Pa.  17701. 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  fs  pi/bliihed  each 
Monday  mutniny  ot  Ihe  academic  year  by 
journalism  and  other  interesled  sludenls 
al  the  Williamsporl  Area  Community  Col- 
lege, 1005  W  Third  St  ,  Williamsport. 
Pa  17701  Telephone  326-3761,  Ext 
221 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  of 
the  student  newspaper,  ol  individual 
writers  or  of  individuals  interviewed  and 
do  not  reflect  the  opinion  of  the  instltu- 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  member  ol  Ihe 
Columbia  Scholaslic  Press  Association 
Production  team  this  issue:  Perry  D 
Pentz,  production  supervisor:  Annette  M 
Engel,  videocompositlon,  Thomas  H 
Long,  copy  editor.  Donna  M  Barnetl, 
Barbi  L  Chilson,  Sylvia  B  Dilylassimo,  Jo 
A  Frilz,  Giseta  D  Grassley,  and  Richard 
E    Kopp,  production  assistants 


THANK  YOU! 

The  response  to  GENUINE  LOW  PRICES  on  our 
records,  record  rentals,  and  Maxell  &  TDK 
blank  tapes  have  been  very  gratifying!  We  are 
now  pleased  to  bring  you  many  fine  AUDIO 
COMPONENTS     at     OLD-TIME     PRICES! 

CrD  PioiveeR 

RECORD  RENTAL  SPECIAL 

ANY  3  ALBUMS  in  the  STORE     (or  5  bucks 

"THE  Hot  Spot  for  your  musical  needs" 

We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 

TiieTiecord  Stofe 


Tuesday,  Sept.  6, 1983       SPOTLIGHT       3 

Blue  answer  sheets  available 
for  visually-handicapped  persons 

Blue  answer  sheets  are  available  for  visually-handicapped  individuals  al  the 
College,  according  to  Kathryn  A.  Ferrence,  career  development  specialist  al  the 
College. 

Students  experiencing  problems  seeing  the  red  answer  sheets  used  by  instruc- 
tors for  computerized  testing  should  consult  their  instructor  to  request  Ihe  more 
easily-readable  blue  sheets,  she  said. 

Ms.  Ferrence  said  there  is  greater  contrast  between  the  blue  and  white  sheets 
than  the  almost  "pink"  and  white  sheets. 

The  blue  sheets  are  available  from  division  directors  or  in  Room  157  Learning 
Resources  Center. 


STAFF  PICNIC  HELD;  GENERAL  SERVICES  TEAM  WINS  --  A  picnic 
for  all  College  employees  and  Iheir  families  was  held  al  Kremser's  Landing, 
Monloursvllle,  just  before  Ihe  opening  of  Ihe  fall  semester  on  Aug.  19,  accor- 
ding to  Ms.  Linda  M.  Morris,  director  of  personnel  services.  The  commiltee 
which  planned  Ihe  picnic  included  Briggs  P.  Dunn,  director  of  secondary  voca- 
tional programs  division;  Steven  T.  McDonald,  media  lechnician;  Ms.  Morris, 
and  members  of  last  year's  social  committee.  Various  activities  were  arranged. 
Winner  of  Ihe  Softball  tournameni  for  Ihe  second  consecutive  year  was  Ihe 
General  Services  Team.  Pictured,  kneeling  are  John  H.  Eck,  Jim  R.  Berger, 
Tom  C.  Overdorf,  standing  are  Roxannc  C.  Jessel,  Henry  R.  Holcomb,  Carl 
L.  Sireck,  Rich  L.  Manney,  Norm  C.  Reome,  Tom  A.  Linn,  Edward  J.  Stan- 
ford (manager),  and  Jocelyn  K.  Thomas.  Team  members  not  pictured  are 
Steven  McDonald,  Gene  Ricker,  and  Brent  Swilzer.  /SPOTLIGHT  pimlo  / 


PHONE:    323-9599 


8V2  W.  Fourth  St. 


Williamsport,  PA  17701 


JOIN  NOW 

Phi  Beta  Lambda 


National  Business  Organization 
Membership  Applications  Are 
Now  Available  For 
Students  in  BUSINESS 
and  COMPUTER  SCIENCE 


APPLY  NOW 

in  Room  333, 
Academic  Center 


Future  Business  Leaders  of  America 
PBL,  Inc. 

'T/ie  Coniniiiiuly  College's  Oiilskiniling  College  Organizalion' 


4       SPOTLIGHT       Toesdiy,  Stpl.  6.  I9»3 


Performers,  technicians  needed 
for  production  of  videotape 


Performers  and  technical  people 
are  needed  for  the  making  of  a  public 
information  videotape  to  be  oriented 
toward  showing  the  services  of  the  Col- 
lege, according  to  G.  Robert  Converse, 
coordinator  of  federally  funded  career 
development  projects. 

The  videotape  will  focus  on  anyone 
wanting  to  come  to  the  College  for  study 
•  and  on  "sparking  interest  in  the  Col- 
lege", Converse  said. 

Roller  skating 
party  tomorrow; 
free  to  students 

A  roller  skating  party  spon.sored  by 
the  Student  Government  As.sociation 
(SGA)  will  be  held  from  8  to  I0:.10  p.m., 
tomorrow  at  Skating  Plus,  according  to 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Freniiotti,  coordinator 
of  intramural  sports  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

The  party  is  free  to  College 
students  who  show  ID.  Skate  rental  is 
75  cents,  Mrs.  Fremiolti  said. 

Students  who  want  to  bring  a  guest 
can  pick  up  tickets  in  Mrs.  Fremiolti's 
office  for  $1.  Her  office  is  located  on 
the  first  fioor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

Skating  Plus  is  located  on  the  cor- 
ner of  Villa  Bella  and  William  Street  in 
downtown  Williamsport. 


The  15  to  20  minute  videotape  will 
be  filmed  by  WBRE-TV,  Wilkes-Barre; 
about  three  weeks  will  be  needed  to 
complete  taping.  The  videotape  is 
scheduled  to  be  finished  at  the  end  of 
October,  Converse  added. 
■  Anyone  interested  may  contact 
Converse  from  8  a.m.  to  noon  any  day 
this  week  in  Room  207,  Academic 
Center. 

Screen  tests  will  be  given  next 
week,  Converse  said. 

Computer  science 
picnic  scheduled 
next  Wednesday 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
hold  a  picnic  next  Wednesday  for  all 
computer  science  and  computer 
operator  students  interested  in  joining 
the  club. 

The  picnic  will  be  from  3  p.m.  until 
dark,  according  to  Charles  E.  Deitrick, 
club  president  pro  tempore. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  the 
club  and  attending  the  picnic  should  at- 
tend the  club's  meeting  at  3:30  p.m., 
next  Tuesday,  Deitrick  said.  The 
meeting  will  be  in  Room  321,  Academic 
Center. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  Si.,  Williamspnrl 
INixt  10  Mump  Academic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322  1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


u 


^— Y^- 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 

want  to  WELCOME  all  returning  classnnen  and 
new  students  to  the  College,  and  wisti  you  THE 
BEST         OF         LUCK         ALL         YEAR! 


il5  percent  off 

I 

I    all  REGULAR  PRICE  merchandise 
I  with  this  coupon. 


F^ 


MIXES  PliACE 


It:^ 


iz 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williamsport,  Ph.  322-1 1  \  2 


RIDES/RIDERS   Wanted 

Car  pool  from  the  Shamokin,  Sun-  ^.^^^  ^^^  ^^  ,^  ,^^  ^^^^^.^^ 
bury  Sehnsgrove  area  every  day  except  Must  share  gas  expenses.  Con- 
Tuesday  Call  Kenneth  Gaydon  for  ,^^,  ^^^^^,^  g^^^^  ^,  „,  ^  p^^^.^ 
more  mformalion,  at  644-1173.  5,^  Williamsport. 

Women  'S  Forum  Need  a  ride  to  Kingston  area  on 

weekends  and  holidays.    Will  share  gas 

'Coffee  Hour '  expense.  Contact  Mary  at  the  food  and 

•^  hospitality  department.  Room  120  B, 

underway  today  ^'="'™''  ^'"'"-.... 

The  Women's  Forum  of  the  Col-  Commuter,  car  pool  to  share  ex- 

lege  is  holding  a  "Coffee  Hour"  from  9  penses  from  the  Lewisburg  area.   Con- 

a.m.  to  4  p.m.  today  in  Room  105,  tact  Steven  Boyer,  at  523-6113. 

Academic  Center.  

The  purpose  of  the  activity  is  to  get  Ride  needed  from  Williamsport  to 

acquainted,     said     Virginia     M.  Lock  Haven  at  4  p.m.  and  ride  needed 

Trowbridge,  one  of  the  organization's  from  Lock  Haven  to  Williamsport  on 

advisers.  Tuesday  and  Thursday  at  II  a.m.  Please 

Handouts  and  membership  forms  rail  748-6824.      

will  be  available.  There  will  be  persons  Ride     wanled--to     Allentown, 

in  the  room  10  answer  questions  about  Fridays;  anytime  after  12  p.m.  and  Sun- 

ihe  organization,  she  said.  days  to  come  back  to  Williamsport. 

A  planning  meeting  is  scheduled  Contact  Keith  Gradwell,  323-9083. 

for  Wednesday,  Sept.  21,  at  3  p.m.,  in  

Room  103,  Academic  Center.  She  said  Anyone  interested  in  sharing  a  ride 

she  is  encouraging  all  interested  persons  and  gas  cost  from  the  Milton  or  Muncy 

to  attend.  area  please  contact  Gisela  at  742-7156 
or  College  Ext.  22L 


Bulletin  Board 


MEETINGS 

Student  Transition   Committee...   4  p.m.,   today,   Tuesday,   Room   218, 
Academic  Center. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  4  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Wednesday,  Room  329,  Academic 
Center. 

Student  Society  of  Manufacturing  and  Engineering  (SME)...  4  p.m.,  Thurs- 
day, Room  124,  Administration  Building. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  p.m.,  today,  Tuesday,  Room  229,  Academic 
Center. 

Advisory  Council...  meeting,  3  to  4  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Wednesday,  Room  221, 
Academic  Center. 

Outing  Club...  4:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Wednesday,  Room  227,  Academic 
Center. 

ACTIVITIES 

Roller  Skating...  8  to  10:30  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Skating  Plus. 

National  Air  Show...  Saturday  and  Sunday,  Williamsport-Lycoming  County 
Airport,  Montoursvillc. 


BENSON 


'^ 


Off!  mini,   ^ 
fBMnntarket 


K 


Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts. 

Gas         Groceries 
Snacks      Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays 


J 


College  bandmeets  tomorrow 


PBL  picnic  this  Wednesday 


The  College  Band  will 
meet  at  4:30  p.m.,  tomorrow  in 
Room  134  of  the  Administra- 
tion Building.  The  meeting  is 
open  to  anyone  interested  in  at- 
tending, according  to  James  B. 
Shaw,  assistaitt  professor  of 
physics  and  club  adviser. 


Men's  basketball  meeting  tomorrow 

A  meeting  for  all  interested  in  the  men's  inter- 
collegiate basketball  team  will  be  held  at  4  p.m.,  tomor- 
row in  the  Bardo  Gym  classroom  on  the  ground  floor, 
according  to  Louis  M.  Menago,  machine  shop  instructor. 

Any  interested  persons  unable  (o  attend  the  meeting 
may  contact  Menago  at  Ext.  200  or  through  Harry 
SpechI,  Ext.  417. 


The  ninth  annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  picnic  supper  will  be  held  at  4:30 
p.m.,  this  Wednesday  at  the  home  of 
Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  professor 
of  business  administration  and  club  ad- 
viser. 

All  PBL  members  and  prospective 
members  are  invited  to  come,  said 
Goldfeder. 


The  Williamsport  Area  Communily  College  Student  Newspaper 

Spotlight 


Monday,  Sept.  12,  1983    •    Vol,  19,  No.  2    •    8  Pages 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College    •    Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


Licking  and  wiping  Iheir  dripping  ice  cream  are  two  ad  art  students;  Ann  E 
Machusiii,  from  Bloomsburg  and  Sandy  M.  Kreisher,  from  Williamsport. 
(SPOTLIGHT  photo  by  Lori  M.  Lane) 

Radio  station 
management  staff 
appointed 

New  management  positions  for 
WWAS,  the  student  operated  radio  sta- 
tion, have  been  announced  for  the  1983 
fall  semester,  according  to  J.  Wesley 
VanZile,  co-general  manager. 

Filling  the  positions  of  co-general 
managers  are  VanZile,  from  Port 
Allegheny,  and  James  A.  Balestino, 
from  Altoona. 

VanZile  will  head  the  departments 
of  news,  sports,  and  public  service  an- 
nouncements. Balestino  will  head  the 
•  •  *Please  turn  lo  Page  4 


Students  gathered  in  front  of  the  Academic  Center  to  listen  to  singer/comedian 
Marty  Bear  on  Thursday,  Sept.  \.    (SPOTLIGHT  photo  by  Lori  M.  Lane) 

Budget  trimmed,  four  sports  cut 


Area  man  struck  by  car 

Loraine  Magargle,  74,  of  30  North 
Broad  Street,  Hughesville,  is  listed  in 
serious  condition  after  being  struck  by  a 
car  in  front  of  the  Academic  Center. 

According  to  Sergeant  William 
Smith,  Magargle  was  hit  by  a  car  driven 
by  Miss  Jaye  A.  Hershberger  of  Wind- 
ber,  PA.  Magargle  was  taken  to  the 
Williamsport  Hospital. 


Friday  is  last  day 

This  Friday  is  the  last  day  to  drop 
classes  without  getting  a  grade  recorded. 


Due  to  budgetary  cuts,  the  College 
has  cut  wrestling,  women's  basketball, 
field  hockey,  and  cheerleading  from  its 
sports  schedule,  according  to  Dr. 
Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of 
instructional  resources. 

The  money  allocated  for  inter- 
collegiate sports  was  $33,946.26  last 
year.  The  budget  trimming  reduced 
that  figure  to  $18,296,  said  Dr.  Cunn- 
ing. 

Wrestling  was  dropped  because 
there  is  only  one  other  team  in  the 
E.P.C.C.A.C.  League  with  a  wrestling 
team  (Bucks  County  Communily  Col- 
lege) and  also  because  the  student  body 
participation  in  the  sport  at  this  College 
was  not  good.  Dr.  Cunning  said. 

Women's  basketball  was  cut 
because  of  the  lack  of  enough  participa- 
tion in  the  sport  to  form  a  team,  added 
Dr.  Cunning. 


Field  hockey  was  cut  from  the 
schedule  last  year,  said  Dr.  Cunning. 

Cheerleading  was  eradicated 
because  it  can  continue  as  a  club  activity 
and  if  enough  persons  are  interested 
then  a  club  could  be  formed,  he  said. 

The  money  which  was  cut  from  in- 
tercollegiate athletics  has  been  ap- 
propriated into  the  different  sections  of 
the  1983-1984  College  budget  in  forms 
such  as  finding  a  supervisor  for  the  gym 
during  open  times,  added  Dr.  Cunning. 

If  enough  persons  were  to  go  out 
and  support  (even  as  spectators)  the 
athletics  at  the  College  -  such  as  men's 
basketball  -  there  is  a  chance  of  a  sport 
being  reinstituted  next  year.  Cunning 
said.  He  added  that  it  would  be  dif- 
ficult, but  not  impossible  to  bring  a 
sport  back  due  to  the  increase  of  atten- 
dance at  the  event. 


SPOTLIGHT 


Sept.  12.  im 


College  taking  shape 

Sometime  during  the  first  few  weeks  of  the  fall  semester,  stop  and  look 
around  campus  at  all  the  construction  and  renovation  that  has  taken  place  over 
the  past  year. 

The  Advanced  Technology  and  Allied  Health  Center  on  Susquehanna  Street 
has  really  taken  shape  since  the  spring  A  written  agreement  of  $500,000  of 
general  county  money  for  the  next  10  years  has  been  granted  to  the  College  by 
Lycoming  County  for  the  construction  of  the  building. 

While  the  construction  of  the  building  is  still  under  way  .  several  other 
renovations  have  taken  place.  The  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  which  was 
renovated  in  the  spring  and  summer  has  displayed  an  upstart  to  the  College,  It 
now  looks  very  impressive  with  carpel  and  the  start  of  modernization. 

Who  are  the  truly  worthy? 

The  use  of  steroids  has  been  a  common  problem  with  many  competitive 
athletes.  Now  this  presumption  has  hampered  the  International  Olympic  move- 
ment. 

Sixteen  athletes  competing  at  the  Pan  American  Games  were  disqualified 
and  their  medals  were  taken  away  after  a  newly  devised  sophisticated  test 
detected  a  drug  content  of  one  or  more  of  the  nearly  100  substances  ranging 
from  eye  drops  to  anabolic  steroids. 

Twelve  other  Americans,  apparently  frightened  by  the  test,  flew  home 
without  competing.  The  number  of  athletes  who  evaded  detection  was  greater 
than  the  number  who  were  detected  ,  A  large  group  of  track  and  field  athletes 
withdrew  because  of  a  sudden  injury  or  suspiciously  scratched  from  their  events 

Of  those  athletes  who  were  disqualified,  finding  out  that  the  "game  was 
over"  before  the  end  of  the  competition  Sunday  evening,  August  28,  were  1 1 
weightlifters,  a  bicyclists,  a  fencer,  a  sprinler,  and  a  shot  putter  These  athletes 
were  from  parts  of  the  world  as  the  tjniled  States,  Cuba,  Canada,  Columbia. 
Nicaragua,  Argentina,  Puerto  Rico,  Venezuela,  Chile,  and  the  Dominican 
Republic 


After  seeing  the  old  and  now  the  new  auditorium,  one  finds  it  hard  to 
acknowledge  that  it  once  was  an  old  and  declining  auditorium  in  need  of  work. 

The  new  sidewalk  in  front  of  the  Acadiemic  Center  and  the  green  plants  and 
trees  growing  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center,  along  with  the  other  construc- 
tion and  renovations  have  brought  forth  a  fresh  and  modernized  look  to  the  col- 
lege. 

As  students,  we  must  all  do  our  part  and  keep  the  process  of  modernization 
advancing  by  respecting  the  College  and  keeping  it  clean  and  free  from  destruc- 
tion. 


Although  these  performers  didn't  fear  the  consequences  at  first,  they  should 
have  considered  the  bodily  harm  that  could  have  been  impaired;  prolonged  use 
of  anabolic  steroids  can  lead  to  cardiovascular  disease,  liver  damage,  shrunken 
testicles,  and  sterility. 

Steroids  have  been  traced  as  far  back  as  the  late  1 950's,  being  used  by 
athletes  to  alter  the  body,  resulting  in  a  weight  gain.  This  particular  use  of  drugs 
has  also  been  mentioned  by  the  medical  advisors  of  the  National  Football  League 
(NFL)  feeling  this  specified  drug  use  is  extensive  among  athletes  at  all  levels. 

Prior  to  the  Pan  American  competition,  athletes  who  used  steroids  were  able 
to  avoid  detection  of  the  drug  content  by  hailing  the  use  1 0  days  to  two  weeks 
before  testing 

Perhaps  many  athletes  who  will  be  tested  will  not  compete  in  future  games 
to  avoid  embarassment  because  of  past  drug  usage,  but  perhaps  those  who  do 
pass  the  test  are  the  only  true  worthy  competitors. 


Whaddya  say...  ? 

Text  by  Donna  M.  Barnett 
Photos  by  Lori  M.  Lane 


Jon  W.  Heimer,  auto  mechanics  stu- 
dent from  Mill  Hall:  "I  didn't  think  too 
much  about  it  because  it  was  their  own 
fault.  Maybe  they  could  have  the 
Soviets  replace  the  plane" 


Kathy  M,  Valencik,  dental  hygiene  stu- 
dent from  Jersey  Shore:  "fwly  first  reac- 
tion was:  It  was  hard  to  believe.  But  I 
really  don't  know  what  we  could  do 
about  it  without  starling  World  War  III," 


■-  :  :    ■  :■      ler,  computer  science 

siuaeni  irom  Walsontown:  "It  should't 
have  been  done  I  think  the  United 
States  should  talk  with  the  Russians 
and  figure  things  out  " 


Jeff  S  Long,  auto  mechanics  student 
from  Lock  Haven:  "There's  not  much 
they  can  do    Just  cut  off  their  grain" 


Question  asked  at  TT1  and 
T  T2  Buildings. 

Question:  What  was  your 
reaction  and  what  do  you  think 
should  be  done  about  the 
Korean  commercial  airliner 
which  was  "shot  down"  after 
wandering  off-course  into 
Soviet  restricted  air  space? 


Dave  A,  Weaver,  carpentry  student 
from  Loyalsock:  "I  think  Ronald 
Reagan  should  really  get  them  back  for 
that " 


Melanie  A  Artley, 
from  Williamsport:  ' 
a  war," 


business  student 
It's  going  to  cause 


l^artin  J,  Belzer,  machine  tool 
technology  student  from  Montoursville: 
"We  shouldn't  give  them  any  grain  or 
anything  like  that" 


Todd    W     Grissinger     machine    tool 
;echnology  student  from  Hustontown 
They  should  take  action      The  U  q 
Shouldn't  sit  down     I  don ',  blar^e  the 
congressman's  wife  for  feeling  the  way' 


Sepl.  12,  1983 


SPOTLIGHT 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS  ^^^±'^11}'^'^'''''^'^^'''' 


By  Perry  D.  Penlz,  SPOTLIGHT  Sports  Editor 

With  the  start  of  the  National  Football  League  (NFL)  season  underway,  many 
wonder  which  teams  will  be  in  Tampa,  Florida  Jan.  22,  1984  for  Super  Bowl 
XVIII. 

In  last  year's  Super  Bowl,  it  was  the  Washington  Redskins  defeating  the  Miami 
Dolphins  27-17.  The  Redskins  this  season  have  to  contend  with  the  Dallas 
Cowboys'  offense.  Their  offense  includes  the  explosive  running  of  Tony  Dorsell 
and  the  accurate  passing  arm  of  Danny  White.  The  Dolphins  must  battle  with  the 
New  York  Jets'  punishing  defense  including  Joe  Klecko  and  Mark  Gaslineau. 

To  ease  everyone's  mind,  here  is  the  way  the  NFL  should  shape  up  for  this 
year.  In  the  National  Football  Conference  (NFC)  East  division,  the  Cowboys  will 
prevail  over  the  Redskins  followed  by  the  Philadelphia  Eagles,  New  York  Giants, 
and  St.  Louis  Cardinals. 

In  the  NFC  Central  division,  the  Green  Bay  Packers  seem  to  be  (he  favorites 
with  their  speed-latent  receivers,  John  Jefferson  and  James  Lofton.  The  Minnesota 
Vikings  will  come  in  second  with  quarterback,  Tommy  Kramer  heading  their  of- 
fense. The  Detroit  Lions,  Tampa  Bay  Buccaneers,  and  Chicago  Bears  round  out 
the  division. 

The  San  Francisco  49ers  will  take  command  of  the  NFC  West  division  with 
quarterback,  Joe  Montana  controlling  their  offense.  The  New  Orleans  Saints  with 
coach,  Bum  Phillips  and  running  back,  George  Rogers  will  come  in  a  close  second. 
The  Atlanta  Falcons  and  Los  Angeles  Rams  close  out  the  division. 

Switching  to  the  American  Football  Conference  (AFC)  East  division,  the 
Dolphins  will  succeed  with  David  Woodley  leading  the  offense  and  A.J.  Duhe,  the 
defense.  The  Jcls  with  Richard  Todd  and  Freman  McNeil  will  be  a  close  second, 
with  Buffalo  Bills,  Baltimore  Colls,  and  New  England  Patriots  finishing  the  divi- 
sion. 

The  Houston  Oilers  will  top  the  AFC  Central  division  with  the  powerful  runn- 
mg  of  Earl  Campbell.  The  Cincinnati  Bengals,  Pittsburgh  Steelers,  and  Cleveland 
Browns  will  finish  in  these  positions  for  this  division. 

In  the  AFC  West  division,  the  Los  Angeles  Raiders  with  Heismann  Trophy 
winner,  Marcus  Allen  will  overcome  their  foes  to  take  the  division.  The  San  Diego 
Chargers  with  Dan  Fouls  will  come  in  a  close  second.  The  Denver  Broncos,  Seattle 
Seahawks,  and  Kansas  City  Chiefs  end  the  division. 

The  Raiders  will  battle  with  the  Dolphins  for  AFC  championship  and  the 
Cowboys  and  Packers  in  the  NFC  championship.  The  Raiders  and  Packers  will 
prevail  and  move  on  to  the  Super  Bowl.  At  the  Super  Bowl,  the  Packers  will  end 
up  on  top  by  a  slim  margin. 

This  is  how  I  see  the  1983  NFL  football  season  winding  up. 


This  year's  cross  country  schedule 


OAV 

DATE 

OPPONENT 

PLACE 

TIMt 

Tue. 

Sepl.  20 

Community  College  of  Philadelphia 
Luzerne  Co.  Communiiy  College 

Home 

4 

Sal. 

Sepl.  24 

Mansfield  X-C  Inviialional 

Away 

1  p.m. 

Tue. 

Sepl.  27 

Bucks  Co.  Communiiy  Collegt 

Away 

4p,m, 

Sal. 

Oel.  1 

Delaware  Co.  CC  and  Monlgomery 

Co.  CC  al  Delaware 

Away 

1  p,m. 

Sal. 

Oel.  8 

Lycoming  College  at  Lycoming 

Away 

2p,m, 

Tue. 

Ocl.  II 

PSU  Wilkes-Barre  Campus 

Away 

WO  p.m 

Sal. 

Oei.  22 

Slate  Tournameni  a(  Williamspon 

Home 

II  p,m. 

Coach: 

Phil  Landers 

Academic  Cenler, 

Room  307 

Telephone  Ext.  227 

This 

year's  golf  schedule 

OAV 

DATK 

OPPONENT 

PLACE 

TIME 

Tue. 

Sepl.  1} 

Norlliamplim  Co.  Area  CC 

A«ay 

1  p.m. 

Fri. 

Sepl,  16 

Monlgomery  Co.  Communiiy  College 
PSU  DuBois  Campus 

Home 

lp,m. 

Mon. 

Sepl,  19 

Norlhamploii  Co,  Area  CC 

Home 

1  p,m. 

Tim. 

Scpl,  22 

PSU  DuBois  Campus 

Asvay 

1  p,m. 

Tue. 

Sepl,  27 

Lu/ernc  County  CC 
Bucks  CCC  al  Luzerne 

Away 

2  p,m. 

Pn. 

Sepl,  M 

Monlgomery  Co,  Communiiy  College 
Bucks  CC  al  Mnlgmy, 

Away 

1  p,m. 

Thu. 

Ocl,  6 

Luzerne  Co,  Communiiy  College 

Home 

lp,m. 

Wed, 

Ocl.  12 

EPCCAC  TournamunI 
al  Sucks  Co.  CC 

Away 

11  a,m. 

Sun. 

Ocl,  16 

Slalc  Meel  al  Seven  Oaks 

Ihrough 

lliiough 

Tue. 

Ocl    18 

Country  Club,  Ohiovillc,  Pa. 

Away 

T.B.A. 

Coach:  Geno  Hendersched 

Production  team  this  issue:  Mary  L.  Pease,  production  supervisor;  Perry  D.  Pentz, 
videocomposilion:  Annette  M.  Engel,  copy  editor:  Richard  E.  Kopp,  Kathy  A.  Melxel. 
James  K.  IVIorrissey,  and  Joseph  P.  Povleski.  production  assistants. 


By  Perry  D.  Pentz 
SPOTLIGHT  Sports  Editor 

"1  think  we  are  going  to  be  com- 
petitive," said  cross  country  coach 
Philip  D.  Landers  about  the  outlook  of 
the  season. 

"Whether  we  duplicate  what  we 
did  last  year  remains  to  be  seen,"  said 
Landers  -  referring  to  last  year's 
unbeaten  season. 

Fifteen  runners  have  signed  up  to 
participate  with  only  one  of  those  run- 
ners returning  from  last  year.    Two  of 
the  runners  who  signed  up  are  women. 
He's  top  candidate 

If  more  women  join,  a  women's 
cross  country  team  is  possible,  said 
Landers. 

One  of  the  runners  out  for  the 
team,  Shawn  E.  Gelnett,  a  general 
studies  student  from  Watsonlown,  was  a 

Open  gym  hours  scheduled 

Starling  this  week,  the  Bardo  Gym 
will  be  open  from  4  p.m.  to  10  p.m.,  ac- 
cording to  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

The  schedule  will  be  flexible  and 
subject  to  change  once  the  sports  pro- 
grams start  up. 

Students  are  being  encouraged  to 
use  the  gym  but  also  also  being  en- 
couraged to  lake  care  of  the  equipment 
and  the  building,  Mrs.  Fremiotli  said. 

Books,  snacks 
now  available 
in  PBL  office 

Hungry  between  classes?  Check 
the  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  office  on 
the  third  floor  of  the  Academic  Center. 
The  club,  an  extension  of  the 
Future  Business  Leaders  of  America 
(FBLA),  is  currently  selling  various  pro- 
ducts, as  well  as  sponsoring  a  book 
sale,  according  lo  David  A.  Haas,  presi- 
dent of  PBL. 

Students  may  purchase  soda  for  45 
cents,  candy  for  30  cents,  as  well  as 
potato  chips,  fruit  iuice,  dictionaries, 
pens,  paper  and  word  processing  equip- 
ment, said  Haas. 

The  club  is  also  sponsoring  a 
hoagie  sale  this  semester.  Students  may 
order  either  turkey  or  regular  hoagies  at 
a  cost  of  $1.25  each  al  the  PBL  office 
early  in  the  week,  and  pick  them  up  al 
the  same  place  around  noon  on 
Wednesdays,  Haas  said. 

During  the  next  Iwo  weeks,  the 
club  will  be  selling  used  textbooks  in  the 
PBL  office.  Sludenls  may  bring  in  their 
books  and  set  their  own  prices,  but  the 
club  will  require  a  $1  commission  if  the 
book  is  sold.  Any  books  thai  arc  not 
claimed  within  30  days  after  ihe  sale  will 
become  the  properly  of  PBL,  said 
Haas. 

Haas  said  Ihe  organization 
members  are  inviting  all  students  lo  slop 
by  during  regular  office  hours,  8  a.m. 
until  10  p.m. 


PIAA  slate  place  finisher  in  high  school 
cross  country.  He  is  one  of  Coach 
Landers  ton  candidates  for  the  upcom- 
ing season. 

Speed  work  in  Oclober 

Throughout  September,  Ihe  team's 
flong  runs)  to  gel  runners  in  shape.  In 
Oclober,  the  team  will  run  speed  work 
such  as  running  intervals  and  hill  work. 

Practice,  starling  al  4  p.m.  and 
usually  over  by  6  p.m.,  involves  running 
throughout  Williamsport. 

All  home  meets  are  held  at  the 
White  Deer  Golf  Course,  Allenwood. 

Any  one  interested  in  joining  Ihe 
cross  country  team  should  contact 
Landers,  Room  307,  Academic  Cenler 
or  call  at  Ext.  227. 

Touch  football 
rosters  available 

Rosters  for  anyone  wanting  lo  start  a 
touch  football  team  are  available  in  the 
activities  office,  according  lo  Mrs.  Jo 
Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

All  rosters  must  be  turned  in  no 
later  than  Friday,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

The  activities  office  is  located  on 
Ihe  first  floor  of  Bardo  Gym. 

Air  show  parking, 
traffic  control 
handled  by  PBL 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  was  in 
charge  of  parking  and  directing  traffic 
for  the  third  consecutive  year  al  this 
year's  Williamsport  National  Air  Show 
which  was  held  al  the  Williamsport- 
Lycoming  Airport  in  Montoursville,  ac- 
cording to  Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant 
professor  of  business  administration 
and  club  adviser. 

The  air  show  was  held  this  past 
weekend. 

Three  former  students  of  the  Col- 
lege who  now  are  attending  Bloomsburg 
University  helped  with  Ihe  air  show, 
said  Goldfeder.  They  are  Keith  Bardo, 
Anlhony  Raniero,  and  Scoll  Younkin. 
The  committee  members  for  PBL 
who  helped  out  with  the  air  show  are 
David  A.  Haas,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  chairman; 
Paul  H.  Pauling,  accounting  student 
from  Monlgomery;  Jeff  R.  Bardo, 
business  management  student  from 
Jersey  Shore;  Vincent  P.  Corson, 
business  management  sludenl  from 
South  Williamsport,  Craig  \.  Rider, 
business  management  student  from 
Sinking  Springs,  and  Elaine  Lawrence, 
computer  science  student  from 
Williamspon,  stated  Goldfeder. 

City  bus  passes  available 

Bus  passes  for  Ihe  Williamsport 
Bureau  of  Transporlalion  are  available 
in  Ihe  office  of  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiot- 
ti, coordinaior  of  intramural  sports  and 
College  activities. 

Her  office  is  on  Ihe  first  floor  of 
Bardo  Gym. 


4  SPOTLIGHT  Sepl.  12,  1983 

Student  Government  Association 
seeks  student  help,  involvement 


The  Studcnl  Govcrnmenl  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  is  looking  for  help  in  Ihe 
organizalion.  "It  won't  be  too  time 
consuming  for  one  person  if  students  get 
involved,"  said  Thomas  (Thorn)  A. 
Marino,  spokesperson  for  the  Transi- 
tion Committee. 

"The  Transition  Committee  is  a 
group  of  non-members  who  represent 
the  student  populous.  The  term.  Tran- 


sition Committee,  identifies  the  nine 
members  as  a  group  who,  in  haste, 
organized  to  restructure  the  SGA.  SGA 
is  still  the  title  which  signifies  the 
organization,"  Marino  said. 

The  new  SGA  office  is  located  in 
Room  202  of  the  Academic  Center.  The 
office  hours  have  not  ycl  been  establish- 
ed, but  persons  interested  should  leave  a 
note  on  the  door  of  the  office,  Marino 
said. 


Station  management  staff  appointed 


fConiimiedlmii:  Pane  I 

departments  of  music,  production,  pro- 
motions, and  public  relations. 

Other  positions  appointed  were; 
Barbara  A.  Bolink,  form  Loganton, 
program  director;  David  R.  Mines,  from 
Williamsport,  news  director;  Todd  J. 
Miller,  from  Muncy,  assistant  news 
director;  James  R.  Bowes,  from  Mon- 
toursville,  director  public  service  an- 
nouncements; William  J.  Zimnoch, 
from  Loganton,  music  director;  Theresa 
A.  Blewelt,  from  Coudersporl,  produc- 
tion director  and  traffic  coordinator, 
VanZile  said. 


William  L.  Phoenix,  froin  Mill 
Hall,  is  director  of  public  relations  and 
promotions  and  Dennis  L.  O'Day,  from 
Shamokin,  assistant  director  of  public 
relations  and  promotions. 

All  students  are  enrolled  in  the 
broadcasting  program. 

Lale  report:  Meeting  dale  changed 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees 
meeting  for  next  month  has  been 
rescheduled  to  Monday,  Oct.  10. 

The  trustees  have  been  invited  to 
Harrisburg  to  lake  pari  in  an  obser- 
vance of  the  20th  anniversay  of  com- 
munity colleges. 


OF  THE 
WILLIAMSPORT  AREA 
COHMUMlTY  COLLEGE 


New  parking  lot 
available  --  but 
'hardly  used' 

The  new  parking  lot  on  lower  Sus- 
quehanna Street  by  the  Automotive 
Trades  Center  is  hardly  being  used,  ac- 
cording to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  super- 
visor of  security. 

Commenting  on  another  matter, 
Smeak  said  that  anyone  who  has  not 
obtained  a  parking  sticker  should  do  so 
at  the  Security  Office  on  Park  Street 
sometime  between  8  a.m.  and  4  p.m., 
Monday  through  Friday. 

Fines  will  be  given  to  anyone  who 
does  not  obey  the  slicker  policies.  The 
fines  are  as  follows:  a  $25  fine  will  be 
given  to  anyone  who  does  not  reveal  a 
sticker  on  his/her  vehicle  or  if  he/she 
parks  in  a  reserved-for-handicapped 
area,  a  $10  fine  will  be  given  to  those 
who  block  doors  or  other  vehicles  and, 
if  a  vehicle  is  parked  in  a  restricted  area 
or  a  "blue  .sticker"  parking  area 
without  proper  idenlification  a  $5  fine 
will  be  given  to  the  driver,  said  Smeak. 

Fines  may  be  paid  at  the  Security 
Office  anytime  from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m., 
Monday  through  Friday,  added  Smeak. 


Transition  Committee 
sponsors  ice  cream  festival 

The  Student  Transition  Commillee 
will  sponsor  an  ice  cream  festival  for  25 
cents  a  dip  from  II  a.m.  until  2  p.m., 
this  Wednesday,  at  the  Earth  Science 
Campus,  according  to  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotli,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

Free  watermelon  will  be  given 
away  today  from  1 1  a.m.  until  all  the 
watermelon  is  gone  on  the  Quad  of  Ihe 
Academic  Center,  Mrs.  Fremiolti  said. 

SME  members 
tour  power  plant 

The  Berwick  Nuclear  Power  Plant 
will  be  toured  by  members  and  potential 
members  of  the  College  Society 
Manufacturing  Engineers  Club  (SME) 
and  engineers  from  the  Williamsport 
chapter  of  SME  at  7  p.m.,  today,  accor- 
ding to  Chalmer  C.  Van  Horn, 
associate  professor  in  drafting  and  SME 
adviser. 

Van  Horn  said  approximately  30 
students  and  20  engineers  will  leave  the 
College  at  5  p.m.,  today  for  the  power 
plant. 


Coming  in  next  week's  SPOTLIGHT... 


....LISTS 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  St.,  Williamspnrl 
INexl  to  hitimp  Academic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  tlirii  Friday 


THANK  YOU  ! 

The  response  to  GENUINE  LOW  PRICES  on  ou. 
recorids,  .record  rentals,  and  Maxell  &  TDK 
blank  tapes  have  been  very  gratifying!  We  are 
now  pleased  to  bring  you  many  fine  AUDIO 
COMPONENTS     at     OLD-TIME     PRICES! 

CD  piONeen 

COMING  SOON 

CERWIN  VEGA  Rock  Monitors 

We  have  the  lowest  prices 

MAXWELL  &  TDK  TAPES 

TheTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 

PHONE:    323-9599 


8V2  W.  Fourth  St. 


Williamsport,  PA  17701 


Spotlight 

Monday,  Scpl.  19,  1983    •    Vol,  19,  No.  4    •    8  Pages 
Williamsporl  Area  Communily  College    •    Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


High  school  students  to  attend 
yearbook  seminar  here  Tuesday 


At  least  100  high  school  students 
from  nonhcentral  Pennsylvania  and 
lower  New  York  State  are  e.xpected  to 
attend  a  yearbook  seminar  at  the  Col- 
lege tomorrow. 

The  one-day  seminar  is  coor- 
dinated by  Charles  H.  Bollinger, 
representative  of  Herff  Jones  Year- 
books, with  the  assistance  of  Harry 
Price,  another  company  representative. 

In  addition  to  the  high  school 
students  -  who,  Bollinger  said,  repre- 
sent 18  schools  -  students  from  two 
nearby  colleges  are  also  expected  to  at- 
tend the  sessions. 

The  seminar  is  designed  to  provide 
students  who  work  on  yearbooks  addi- 
tional knowledge  or  to  reinforce  skills 
needed  to  produce  the  annuals. 

GET  continues 
Pledge  Week; 
names  needed 

Pledge  Week  for  the  Graphic  Arts 
fraternity,  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (GET), 
according  to  Anthony  Gobrecht,  presi- 
dent of  GET. 

Each  pledge  is  required  to  have  52 
signatures:  those  of  26  men  and  26 
.women.  The  "catch"  is  that  one  initial 
of  the  signer's  name  must  correspond 
with  a  letter  of  the  alphabet,  one  name 
per  letter.  In  addition,  the  prospective 
members  must  have  all  the  members' 
signatures  plus  the  signatures  of  the 
three  instructors.  Another  stipulation  is 
that  the  pledges  must  guess  the 
hometown  of  the  fraternity's  president. 

After  all  this,  the  pledges  have  to 
write  a  letter  to  the  execitive  board 
stating  personal  information,  future 
plans,  and  reasons  for  wanting  to  join 
GET.  The  final  step  is  cleaning  the 
fraternity  office,  which  is  to  be  used  as  a 
GET  lounge. 

On  Wednesday,  Sept.  28,  all 
members  vote  on  whether  the  pledges 
become  members  or  not. 


Workshops  during  the  day  include 
those  on  theme  and  unity,  journalism, 
finance  and  fund-raising,  graphic 
techniques,  copy  preparation  and 
others.  There  are  also  sessions  for  ad- 
visers as  well  as  for  critique  of  previous- 
ly published  annuals. 

Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  journalism  at  the  College,  will 
conduct  a  workshop  on  interviewing  and 
journalism-writing.  Dr.  James  Mid- 
dleton,  director  of  the  Humanities  and 
Communication  Arts  Division,  will  give 
a  brief  welcome. 


First  cross  country  meet  tomorrow 

To  kickoff  the  198.1  cross  country  season,  the  College  harriers  first  meet  is  a 
triangular  meet  with  the  Communily  College  of  Philadelphia  and  Luzerne  County 
Community  College  at  4  p.m.,  tomorrow,  at  the  While  Deer  Golf  Course,  R.D.  1 
Montgomery,  according  to  Phillip  C.  Landers,  cross  country  coach. 

College  enrollment  up  5  percent 


Enrollment  at  the  College  is  up  by 
five  percent  over  last  fall,  according  to 
tentative  figures  presented  lo  the  College 
Board  of  Trustees  at  the  September 
meeting. 

Full-time  equivalent  enrollment  is 
just  under  3,500  students,  making  a 
gain  of  5.15  percent  over  last  year.  The 
head  count  of  just  under  4,000  is  a  6.5 
percent  increase  over  last  year,  said  Dr. 


STUDYING  in  the  College  library  are  three  dental  hygiene  sludenls:  (from  left) 
Jan  L.  Trade,  of  Clearfield;  Peggy  E.  Polls,  of  Lewislown,  and  Jill  A.  Arnold,  of 
Kane.  /SPOTLIGHT  p/wlo  by  Lori  M.  Lane/ 


Robert  L.  Brcuder,  College  president. 

He  added,  there  will  be  "some 
shaking  out"  in  the  first  few  weeks  as 
some  students  withdraw.  The  final 
figures  which  will  be  determined  by  ear- 
ly next  month  will  assuredly  be  "at  least 
four  percent"  over  last  year. 

Thirty-four  of  the  55  programs  of- 
fered are  filled  lo  capacity,  and  more 
than  250  sludenls  are  on  wailing  lists  for 
vacancies  developing  in  those  programs. 

Additional  classes  in  air  condition- 
ing .and  refrigeration,  computer  science, 
electronics  and  diesel  mechanics  are  ex- 
pected 10  be  added  in  January,  Dr. 
Brcuder  said. 

N«Mti*«Mii|«papilMMMii«Him' 
bclueen  75  and  100  fu/l-lime  equivaleni 
sludenls  from  a  head  couni  of  between 
100  and  125,  the  president  said:  This 
fall,  computer  science  and  secretarial 
science  classes  were  added.  The  prac- 
tical nursing  program  began  there  last 
January. 

Fifteen  sludenls  are  enrolled  in  the 
new  dairy  herd  managcmenl  course  at 
Ihe  Danville  State  Farm,  which  is  under 
the  direction  of  the  Earth  Science  Cam- 
pus. 

John  F.  Thompson,  associate  dean 
of  technology  programming,  reported 
on  enrollment  in  the  secondary  voca- 
tional program.  Figures  showed  a  total 
of  just  about  the  800  expected  sludeiits, 
although  Ihe  figures  are  "not  solid" 
ycl. 

»  •  •Please  mm  lo  Page  8 


Student-builders  progressing  on  new  Center 


By  Richard  E.  Kopp 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 
A  9,000-square-foot  area,  65,000 
bricks,  7,500  square  feet  of  roofing,  8 
tons  of  structural  steel  and  a  whole  lot 
of  concrete  is  all  it  takes  to  ultimately 
give  an  estimated  400  sludenls  "hands 
on"  experience  in  the  field  of  construc- 
tion, according  lo  Fred  W.  Dochter, 
assistant  professor  of  carpentry  and 
field  coordinator  for  the  construction  of 
the  new  Professional  Development 
Center. 


The  building  is  being  raised  on 
lower  Susquehanna  Street. 

On  June  20,  under  the  leadership 
of  Ralph  A.  Home,  construction  ad- 
ministrator, and  Dochter  the  new  pro- 
ject was  started  lo  benefit  students  from 
eight  programs. 

Students  are  constructing  the  Pro- 
fessional Development  Center  -  which 
was  also  designed  by  students,  under  the 
supervision  of  Joseph  G.  Mark,  instruc- 
tor of  architectural  lechnology.  The 
building,  when  completed,  will  be  used 


for  meetings  and  seminars. 

The  instructors  will  grade  the 
sludenls  on  Ihcir  work. 

When  Ihe  center  is  finished  the 
students  will  continue  to  maintain  the 
Center  -  including  doing  the  repair 
work  on  the  plumbing,  air  conditioning, 
and  healing  systems.  Home  said. 

There  now  are  26  students  working 
on  the  three-year  project.  They  will  be 
working  up  until  Thanksgiving  when  the 
weather  generally  becomes  too  cold  lo 
continue,  Dochter  said. 


Two  new  features  in  this  issue!    Lists,  iists...  *  Droiio-crypto 


SPOTLIGHT 


Sept.  19.  1983 


Layout  of  library 
spacious  and 
easy  to  use 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 


There  is  no  doubl  that  the  College's  Learning 
Resources  Cenler(LRC)  look  on  some  new  changes. 
But  there  is  doubl  by  sonne  as  to  the  easiness  and 
workability  of  new  changes. 

First  of  all.  it  should  be  staled  that  there  is  no  real 
change  for  finding  books.  The  LRC  still  uses  the 
Library  of  Congress  classification  system.  This  same 
system  is  used  in  all  college  libraries  Books  are 
shelved  alphabetically  and  numerically  with  guide 
cards  posted  before  each  aisle. 

□    an 

What  is  different  is  the  spacious  layout  of  the 
Center,  with  shorter,  easy-to-use  reference  shelves, 
opposite  the  card  catalog.  Paralleling  the  reference 
shelves  are  the  index  shelves,  and  next  to  them  the 
periodicals.  All  these  aisles  boarder  the  main  aisle 
for  easy  access 


The  Center  maintains  305  periodicals,  with  the 
possibility  of  expanding.  Back  issue  periodicals  are 
listed  near  the  current  issues  and  are  hardbound  or 
microfilmed 

ODD 

To  keep  an  accurate  record  of  issues,  the 
periodicals  are  not  circulated  outside  the  Center.  In- 
formation to  be  duplicated  can  be  done  so  on  the 
copier  near  the  periodical  rack. 

The  second  floor  provides  a  quiet  work  study 
area  for  individuals  and  groups.  Conference  rooms 
are  available  with  permission 

True  to  its  name,  students  are  encouraged  to 
use  their  own  resources  to  find  and  use  information, 
without  the  librarian's  help.  If  you  do  need  help  there 
are  at  least  two  librarians  in  the  Center  al  all  times 


Where  do  we 
draw  the  line? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 


Justifiable  homocide  is  basically  what  the 
Soviets  are  claiming  as  defense  for  their  actions  in 
the  shooting  down  of  Korean  Airliner  Flight  007.  But 
where  is  the  line  drawn  between  justifiable  homocide 
and  cold  blooded  murder  of  Innocent  persons? 

The  Soviets'  immediate  response  and  later 
response  toward  the  downing  of  Flight  007  gravely 
jeopardized  their  credibility.  For  the  first  two  days  the 
Russians  remained  silent  on  the  matter  and  then  later 
only  admitted  that  a  Soviet  interceptor  fired  warning 
shots  al  a  "umdenlified  plane "  that  "rudely"  violated 
Soviet  airspace,  but  refused  to  acknowledge 
shooting  the  plane  down, 

a    a    a 

The  Russians  continued  their  outright  lie  until 
factual  evidence  surfaced  that  proved  the  Soviets 
savagely    shot    down    the    airliner    carrying    269 


passengers.  The  Soviet  Union  has  undoubtedly  pro- 
ven to  us  by  this  attack  and  other  attacks  over  the 
past  30  years  to  be  an  untrustworthy,  ruthless  and 
cold  blooded  nation. 

Not  only  did  the  Russians  refuse  to  acknowledge 
their  ruthless  actions  but  later  had  the  audacity  to  try 
to  shove  Ihe  responsibility  oft  on  the  United  Stales  by 
slating  that  the  civilian  airliner  was  on  a  "spy 
mission". 

D     D     D 

The  unforgivable  tragedy  will  remain  in  our 
minds  and  hearts  for  quite  some  time  if  not  forever 
and  the  United  States  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 
are  sure  to  be  under  constant  stress.  The  question 
for  us  to  ask  is  where  will  this  act  of  cruel  destruction 
of  human  life  lead  to? 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  each 
Monday  morning  of  the  academic  year  by 
.journalism  and  other  interested  students 
at  the  Williamsporl  Area  Communitv  Col- 
leoe.  1005  W  Thud  SI  ,  Williamspoit. 
Pa.  17701.  Telephone:  326-3761,  ExI. 
221 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  of 
Ihe  student  newspaper,  ol  individual 
writers  or  ot  individuals  interviewed  and 
do  not  reflect  the  opinion  of  the  institu 
lion 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  membet  ol  Ihe 

Columbia  Scholaslic  Piess  Associalion 

Mary  L.  Pease 

Managing  Editor 

Annette  M.  Engel 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Thomas  H.  Long 

Advertising  Director 

Perry  D.  Pentr 

Sports  Editor 

Lorl  M.  Lane 

Photography  Editor  (Days) 

Barbi  L.  Chllson 

Photography  Editor  (Evenings) 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darkroom  tvlanager 

Gregoiy  W.  Huff 

Features  Editor 

Joan  L.  Thompson 

Administrative  Attairs  Editor 

Tracy  L.  Moyer 

Student  Attairs  Editor 

Denlse  Y.  Enlgit 

Senior  Statt  Writer 


STAFF:  Donna  tvl  Barnetl.  Sylvia 
Dil^assimo,  Jo  A  Fritz,  Kathryn  fvt 
Gilbert,  Shawn  W  Heverly,  Lori  L 
Holland,  Rachel  P  Levinson,  Kathy  A 
f^eixei,  Robert  W  Ivtinier,  James  K  f^of- 
rissey,  Gary  A  Nichols,  Joseph  p 
Povlesiti,  Tracey  Witlette,  Richard  E 
Kopp,  fvlarcy  Card,  fvlurray  Hantord 
Anthony  N.  Cillo.  Faculty  Adviser 

Production    team    this    issue; 

Denlse  Y.  Enigk,  copy  editor; 
Tracy  L.  f^oyer,  videocomposi- 
lion;  Joan  L.  Thompson,  produc- 
tion supervisor;  William  Gahen, 
Kathryn  M  Gilbert,  Rachel  P 
Levinson,  and  Gary  A.  Nichols, 
production  assistants 


New  season:  you  decide 

says  reviewer  Tracey  Willette 


Fall  is  here!  Time  to  go  to  school,  pull  out  the 
sweraters,  and  gel  prepared  for  the  fall  television 
season  This  year,  you're  offered  a  vast  spectrum  of 
programs  to  choose  from  -  ranging  from  comedy  to 
drama.  So,  if  you  haven't  had  time  to  pick  up  a  copy 
of  TV  GUIDE  .  read  on 

Leading  the  pack  with  nine  shows  is  NBC, 
followed  closely  by  ABC  with  eight,  and  CBS,  with 
five. 

One  of  the  mote  highly  publicizes  shows  is 
Webster-  This  is  a  comedy  about  a  newly-married 
couple  who  are  left  to  raise  their  orphaned  godson. 
ABC's  answer  to  Dllf'renI  Strokes? 

Another  one  is  Mr.  Smith  (NBC).  This  is  a  story 
based  on  an  orangutan  who  has  an  IQ  of  256  and 
works  for  the  government  in  Washington  perhaps 
this  is  Fred  Silverman's  prediction  for  the  next  four 
years  in  the  White  House- 
Remember  when  f/l'A  'S'H  finally  went  off  Ihe 
air?  Well,  don't  despair    CBS  is  offering  4//er/M/4SH. 


This  series  follows  the  postwar  experiences  of  Col. 
Potter,  Cpl.  Klinger,  and  Father  fvlulcahy.  They're 
located  in  a  VA  hospital  in  Missouri.  Could  be  worth 
a  look- 

These  are  just  three  of  the  upcoming  series  of- 
fered. Some  seem  interesting;  some  seem 
somewhat  farcial.  The  decision  if  yours  -  along  with 
200  million  other  viewers 

Will  the  maid 

cause 

problems? 

asks  Gisela  D.  Grassley 
in  review  of  new  TV  show 

"We  Got  It  Made",  a  new  series  this  fall 
premiered  Thursday. 

Two  cute  bachelors,  David,  (Mall  McCoy),  the 
clean-cut  guy,  and  his  blowzy  friend  Jay,  (Tom 
Villard),  decide  to  hire  a  live-in  maid,  to  tidy  their 
messy  apatlmenl. 


On  Ihe  scene  appears  Mickey  MacKenzie  (Ten 
Copley),  a  sweetie  with  a  voice  like  Marilyn  Monroe, 
and  a  body  like  a  dream  She's  got  a  jiggle  thai 
makes  one  shiver 

Mickey,  for  reasons  never  made  clear,  is  hired 
on  the  spot. 

Complications  begin  for  David  and  Jay  when 
their  girlfriends  Claudia  (Stephanie  Kramer),  and 
Beth,  (Bonnie  Urseth).  come  for  dinner  which  is  serv- 
ed by  Mickey. 

n    r  1    n 

The  boys  fry  to  convince  the  girls  thai  Ihey  hired 
Mickey  to  cook  and  clean  -  nothing  else 

Will  the  girls  believe  them  when  they  find  their 
boyfriends  in  repeatedly  incriminating  situations? 

This  funny  series  could  be  something  to  look  for- 
ward to  Thursday  nights  this  fall 


f^tS*!^v<sss:S«SSS«¥SftW*'ftWSW4WaWM 


Sepl.  19,  1983  SPOTLIGHT 


Drollo-Crypto 


Here's  this  week's  droll  cryplomessage.  Clues:  The  message  has  lo 
do  with  something  that  none  of  us  has  enough  of...  and. ...E  stands  for 
N,  while  J  stands  for  P.   Have  fun.' 

L       JPBBT       DLEPO       KD       L       JPBBT       PLABPO 

-       NBXK       XGP       KBXPABLR       APEPBNP 

PAEKSP       YKBOD       ZNX       LFZNX       KX! 

Solulinn  in  nexl  week's  SPOTLIGHT 


Lists,  lists... 


This  week's  list  is  by  Richard  R 
Follmer  civil  engineering  student  from 
Milton 

Five  Favorite  Bluegrass  Bands 

1  New  Grass  Revival 

2  Jim  &  Jesse  McReynolds 

3  Hot  Rize 

4  Country  Genllemen 

5  Flat!  &  Scruggs 


Trading  Places' 
half  and  half 


comments  James  K.  Morrissey 
in  review  of  Ayl<royd  movie 


Trading  Places  is  a  hectic  comedy  about  two 
rich  and  elderly  brothers  (Ralph  Bellamy,  Don 
Ameche)  who  conduct  a  wager  based  on  heredity 
versus  environment.  If  the  lives  of  Iheir  commodities 
firm  president  (Dan  Aykroyd)  and  a  street-wise 
Philadelphia  beggar  (Eddie  Murphy)  are  switched 
around,  will  they  be  the  same  people  afterward  or 
changed  because  of  Iheir  new  environment? 

Lewis  Winthorpe  III  (Aykroyd)  is  framed,  jailed, 
and  thrown  back  onto  the  streets  without  money  or 
possessions.  Billy  Ray  Valentine  (Murphy)  is  rescued 
from  jail  to  enjoy  Winthorpe's  former  luxury  and 
power  In  one  scene.  Winthorpe  is  frantically  denying 
his  newly  acquired  criminal  reputation  lo  his  high 
society  girlfriend  while  a  prostitute  badgers  him  to 
sell  drugs  to  her. 

Luckily   foi    Winlhorpe,    he   is   befriended   and 
sheltered  by  the  same  prostitute  (Jamie  Lee  Curtis) 
Wearing  a  Santa  Glaus  costume  and  stealing  food  at 


Valentine's  lavish  Christmas  party,  Winthorpe  con- 
fronts him  and  they  soon  discover  the  brothers  evil- 
doing    Revenge  is  planned. 

Needing  no  inlroduclion.  Murphy  shines  in  his 
tailor-made  role  complete  wilh  rude  wisecracks  and 
comical  facial  expressions.  The  movie  lizzies  out  in 
the  train  scenes  ,  although  a  caged  gorilla  does  pro- 
vide some  mirth  when  an  unconcious  crook  is  put  in- 
to his  cage. 


The  lowpoint  of  this  movie  is  Aykroyd's  restric- 
ting straight-man  part  and  too  much  obvious  nudity 
and  bad  language  II  plays  like  a  Richard  Pryor 
reject  after  a  good  start. 

Trading  Places  is  a  good  bawdy  \augl>i<lil"OiBi  ■ 
nondiscriminating   audience       Many   will  enjoy  it's 
crude  and  low  brow  humor     The  lirst  half  of  the 


movie  is  worthwhile  viewing  while  the  other  half  is  in- 
ferior slap  dash  humor 


'Stopwatch'  not  as  funny    but  is  still  funny 


says  reviewer  Shawn  W.  Heverly 

If  you  have  seen  a  show  on  Home  Box  Office  this  month  called  "Stopwatch: 
Thirty  Minutes  Of  Investigative  Ticking,"  you  saw  a  very  humorous  look  at  the 
CBS  show  "60  Minutes." 

If  you  haven't  seen  "Stopwatch",  then  you  can  catch  any  one  of  it's  encore 
performances  the  rest  of  the  month. 

Created  with  nearly  the  same  format  as  "60  Minutes",  the  show  looks  at  the 
lighter  side  of  investigative  reporting  the  show  is  famous  for 

n     n     rj 

"Stopwatch"  covered  such  humorous  events  as  nuns  boxing  for  God,  and  a 
television  evagelist  who  doubles  as  a  plastic  surgeon  He  encourages  un- 
attractive people  to  send  him  money  so  he  can  spread  his  "healing". 


In  one  of  funnier  skits  of  the  show,  "Nuns  in  the  Boxing  Ring",  we  see  two 
nuns  flailing  away  at  each  other  in  the  ring  with  such  fervor  it  would  rival  some  of 
the  boxing  scenes  from  any  of  the  Rocky  movies.  The  skit  was  complete  with  a 
cardinal  doing  the  refereeing 

II    ij    rj 

In  another  funny  skit  we  see  a  T.V.  evangelist/plastic  surgeon  give  a  girl  with 
a  large  un-attraclive  nose  a  new  attractive  nose  right  on  the  air,  but  then  we  are 
shown  evidence  that  he  is  a  fake. 

"Stopwatch"  is  another  recent  successful  comedy  production  from  HBO 
Although  the  show  is  not  as  funny  as  "Not  Necessarily  The  News"  or  "Over  Here 
Mr   President",  it  is  still  funny  in  ifs  own  right 


Loverboy  ...superband  on  the  move 


says  Gary  A.  Nichols 
reviewing  the  Canadian  superstars 

The  superstar  Canadian  band.  Loverboy.  is  touring  throughout  the  United 
States  this  fall  inpromotion  of  their  latest  album.  Keep  II  Up. 

On  Wednesday.  Aug.  31 ,  Loverboy  played  at  City  Island  Park  in  Harnsburg. 
Over  20.000  rock-and-roll  fans  came  out  to  see  the  high-powered  show  the  band 
performs  night  after  night  The  band  plays  over  200  concerts  a  year  throughout 
the  world 


n 


I     ri 


The  band  consists  ot  Mike  Reno  (vocals).  Paul  Dean  (guitar,  vocals).  Matt 
Frenette  (drums),  Doug  Johnson  (keyboards),  and  Scott  Smith  (bass). 

Reno  and  Dean  founded  the  band  in  1979  in  Vancouver.  British  Columbia, 
Canada.,  Soon  after,  they  developed  a  rock-and-roll  chemistry  that  has  led  the 
band  to  unbelieveable  stardom  in  just  five  short  years, 

Loverboy  has  produced  three  highly  successful  albums:  Loverboy,  Get 
Lucky,  and  Keep  It  Up,    After  the  production  of  each  of  these  albums,  the  band 


tours  for  months  promoting  the  album.  Thus,  from  concert  promotions,  T-shirt 
sales,  record  sales  and  personal  appearances,  Loverboy  is  a  band  that  is  very 
much  financially  secure 

In  concert,  Reno  is  the  ringleader  He  sings  all  their  songs.  Laser  lights  and 
rising  smoke  are  used  on  stage  by  the  band  to  provide  the  high  energy  at- 
mosphere they  create  during  a  show 

I !     r.)     r.  I 

Their  show  lasts  approximately  two  hours  and  leaves  a  positive  effect  on 
their  fans.  One  has  a  sense  of  satisfaction  and  a  deeper  appreciation  for  their 
music  aller  seeing  them  in  concert. 

Loverboy  has  released  many  hit  singles  such  as  Woridng  for  the  Weekend, 
Turn  tAe  Loose,  and  The  Kid  Is  Hot  Tonite,  Off  their  new  album.  Keep  It  Up, 
hey've  produced  such  hit  singles  as  Hot  Girls  in  Love  and  Queen  of  the  Broken 
Hearts. 

After  alt  the  success  Loverboy  has  enjoyed,  one  may  ask,  "What's  next?" 
The  only  people  that  can  answer  that  question  are  five  guys  from  Canada  who 
are  on  a  sensational  roll  -  and  will  inevitably  continue  their  great  success. 


SPOTLIGHT  Sept.  19,  1983 

Food  and  hospitality 
has  busy  schedule 

The  food  and  hospilalily  seclion 


Students  bring 
'fresher'  look 
to  the  College 

Thanks  to  the  work  of  some 
nursery  management  students  here  at 
the  College,  the  academic  buildings  have 
a  "fresher"  look  about  them,  according 
to  Richard  J.  Weilminster,  associate 
professor  of  horticulture. 

The  students  have  aided  in  the 
designing  of  flower  planters  that  link  the 
Carl  Building  Trade  Center  and  the 
Learning  Resources  Center,  Weilminster 
said. 

"Some  of  my  students  also  helped 
in  the  designing  of  the  flowers  in  front 
of  Bardo  Gym,"  stated  Weilminster. 

Other  work  done  on  the  planters 
was  by  Eltinger  Landscaping  Services. 
Those  landscapers  have  also  been  con- 
tacted by  the  College  to  plant  trees 
around  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Educa- 
tion. Those  trees  are  to  be  planted  this 
October,  Weilminster  said. 

With  new  buildings  on  the  rise  and 
additional  ones  being  planned,  the  col- 
lege is  beginning  to  take  on  a  new  look, 
liius,  when  students  here  at  the  College 


Trustees  okay  lot  pavement  contract, 
make  way  for  bank's  automatic  teller 


A  contract  to  pave  the  parking  area 
has  a  bu.sy  schedule  this  year,  according  west  of  the  Technical  Trades  Center  was 
10  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  coordinator  of  approved  by  the  College  Board  of 
food  and  hospilalily.  Trustees  at  its  September  meeting. 

Last  Saturday,  students  catered  a  The  contract  was  awarded  to 
fortieth  wedding  anniversary  parly,  said  George  Logue  Inc.,  of  Williamsporl, 
Mrs.  Miglio.  who  was  the  low  bidder  for  the  project. 

On  Oct.  3,  students  will  cater  an  The  low  bid  was  $77,000.  Money  from 
advisory  committee  dinner  for  the  the  Stage  I  project  ($64,000)  and  the 
developmental  studies  section.  1982   Construction    Project    ($13,000) 

Last  Friday,  students  catered  an  will  pay  for  the  paving, 
open  house  for  the  Counseling,  Career        The  proposed  dale  for  completion 
Dcvelopmcnl   and    Placement   Ccnier,  (Of  (he  operation  is  Oct.  31,  1983. 
Mrs.  Miglio  added.  The  trustees  also  authorized  the 

The  food  and  hospilalily  student  College  to  enter  into  a  three-year  lease 
organization  plans  to  go  to  New  York  agreement  with  Commonwealth  Bank 
Cily  in  the  future  to  visit  wineries,  she  and  Trust  Co.  for  (he  installation  of  an 
noted.  au(oma(ic  (eller  machine  in  (he  parking 

lo(  eas(  of  and  adjacent  to  the  Academic 
Insurance  policy  response  low;      Center. 

student  coverage  still  available  ^'",  ''f'  ,?^''Tm"'  ''  '"''J".'  '" 

n „„    ,  ?  ,,      ,  "'"""""'       approval    by    the    Wil  lamsport    Area 

Enrollment  in  the  student  insurance  f  va 

policy,  "is  at  a  low  status,"  according     AptivifipV   nffiro 

to  Donald  S.  Shade,  director  of  finan-    ^^Hyllieb    UJJlLt 

""shade  feels  this  is  due  to  "students    MW  lOCatcd  W  gym    ^^  hOSpital 


Community  College  Building  Aulhorily 
and  the  S(a(e  Public  School  Building 
Aulhoriiy. 

The  Williamsport  Area  Communi- 
ty College  Foundation  will  receive  an 
annual  donalion  of  $1,000  from  the 
bank  in  return  for  udlizalion  of  the  site. 

A  propscd  new  postsecondary 
course  in  light  du(y  dicsel  mechanics 
was  also  approved  for  ihe  curreni  fiscal 
year. 

According  (o  College  officials,  in- 
dustrial inquiries  and  student  interest 
cleariy  indicaie  a  need  for  this  type  of 
training  since  many  new  cars  and 
ligh(weigh(  (rucks  have  diesel  engines. 

The  College  will  pilo(-(esl  (he 
course.  If  successful,  i(  will  be  adop(ed 
as  a  regular  course.  Projected  enroll- 
mciK  is  sc(  for  20  s(udcn(s. 

Pre-natal  classes 


begin  today 


lend  a  helping  hand  in  the  "sprucing  year  which  covers  Aug.  26,  through 

up"  ofacademic  buildings  and  grounds,  Aug.  26,  1984.     The  forms  for  this 

it  makes  the  school  appear  more  atlrac-  policy  are  available  in  the  Dispensary 

live  and  enjoyable  for  all  students,  con-  office,  Room  203,  Academic  Center 

eluded  Weilminster.  Shade  said.                                      ' 


comparing  the  students-policy  with  their  The  office  of  Mrs.  Jo  Ann   R. 

parents'  policies."  Fremiolli,   coordinator  of  intramural 

The  cost  of  the  policy  i^s  $84.50  per     athletics  and  College  activities,  now  is 
located  on  the  first  floor  of  Bardo  Gym. 


The  office  is  the  second  door  on.  the 
right  from  the  east  entrance. 

The  (elephone  exiension  number  is 
269. 


Courlesy  report 

Pre-na(al  classes  will  be  held  a(  the 
Williamsport  Hospital  (oday,  nex( 
Monday,  Oc(.  3,  Oc(.  10,  and  Oc(.  17. 

Regislration  for  the  free  classes 
now  is  underway.  Morning  or  evening 
classes  are  available. 

The  classes  are  designed  to  ac- 


WACC  Intramural  League 

Men,  women,  or  mixed         4  per  team 

SIGN  UP... Today  thru  Thursday 
(by  noon) 

Price: 
$2.75 


Mrs.  Fremiotii  noted  last  week  that  1"=""'  e'<Peclant  couples  with  hospital 

her  jobis  to  colled  information  about  P'o^edurcs,  explain  pregnancy,  dietary 

intramural  spor(s  and  s(uden(  ac(ivi(ies.  "^^''^  °^  "'^  pregnan(  woman,  care  of 

Anyone  needing  information  on  such  "^'^.  "^born,  and  exercise  to  aid  In 

activiiies  or  information  on  bus  passes  ''^l'^^'')'- 

or  (hose  s(udcn(s  who  are  having  pro-  ^P°"  compledon,   (he  fa(her  or 

blems  wi(h  sluden(  idenlificadon  cards  ^^PP^ri   person   may  accompany  Ihe 

should  contaci  her,  she  said.  ™"^'^'' '"'°  "^^  delivery  room. 

She  also  noted  that  the  Sludenl  Addilional  informalion  is  available 
Government  Association  office  now  is  ''>'  telephoning  the  hospital  and  re- 
located in  Room  202,  Academic  Center  q"«ting  Extension  2588. 


The  telephone  extension  for  Student 
Government  Association  is  248. 


A  sneeze  can  (ravel  as  fas(  as  100 


uy* 


free 
shoes 


BOWLING  STARTS.-.Thursday, 
Sept.  27th  at  4  p.m. 

Collegiate  Sanctioned 

ABC  Bowling 

1245  Park  Ave        326-2885  , 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 

want  to  WELCOME  all  returning  classmen  and 
new  students  to  the  College,  and  wish  you  THE 
BEST        OF         LUCK         ALL         YEARi 

!l5  percent  off; 

I    all  REGULAR  PRICE  merchandise    | 

\  with  this  coupon.  I 


3rd  St.,  Williomsport,  Ph.  322-1 1 1 2  1 


IM  bowling  begins, 
sign-up  opens  today 

Persons  interested  in  intramural 
bowling  may  sign  up  today  through 
noon,  this  Thursday  in  the  intramural 
office,  second  door  on  the  right  on  the 
first  floor  of  the  Bardo  Gym,  according 
to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

The  Tuesday  afternoon  league  will 
begin  on  Tuesday,  Sept.  27  at  the  ABC 
Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave., 
Williamsport,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Four  persons  are  needed  for  each 
team.  Teams  may  be  men's,  women's, 
or  mixed. 

There  is  a  fee  of  $2.75  per  line  and 
shoe  rental  is  included  in  the  fee. 

Golf  team  scores 
an  opening  victory 

The  College  golf  team  opened  its 
season  last  Tuesday,  Sept.  13,  with  an 
ll'/i  to  6'/2  win  over  Northampton 
County  Community  College  at  Nor- 
thampton, according  to  Harry  C. 
Specht,  coordinator  of  intercollegiate 
athletics. 

In  medal  play,  Brian  A.  McKee, 
general  studies  student  from  Danville, 
shot  a  73  to  lead  the  field.  Daniel  J. 
McKean,  electrical  technology  student 
from  Shohola  shot  a  77,  according  to 
Specht. 

In  team  competition,  McKean  lost 
to  Craig  Anderson,  0-3;  McKee  beat 
Brian  Lee,  2Vi-Vi;  Joseph  E.  Simpson, 
diesel  mechanics  student  from 
Duboistown  beat  Rob  Taylor,  3-0; 
Michael  A.  Spencer,  engineering  draf- 
ting student  from  St.  Marys  beat  Brian 
Wilson,  3-0;  Tom  Murphy,  broad- 
casting student  from  Washington  Cross- 
ing beat  Jeff  Foreman,  3-0,  and  Michael 
E.  Fry,  computer  science  student  from 
South  Williamsport  beat  Matt  Williams, 
3-0. 

Team  scoring  involves  using  the 
NASSUA  scoring  system.  This  involves 
a  person  going  head-to-head  with 
another  person  in  competition. 

Each  player  plays  18  holes  with  the 
winner  of  nine  holes  getting  one  point 
and  the  winner  of  the  second  nine  holes 
getting  another  point. 

Then  the  winner  overall  gels  one 
more  point.  A  total  of  three  points  can 
be  awarded  to  one  person  during  the 
match,  Specht  .said. 

Student  ID  needed 
to  get  into  gym 

When  the  Bardo  Gym  is  open  for 
late  afternoons  and  evenings,  students 
must  have  proper  student  identification 
to  be  admitted  into  the  gym,  according 
to  Harry  C.  Specht,  coordinator  of  in- 
tercollegiate athletics. 

Students  should  bring  their  student 
identification  with  them  or  they  will  not 
be  admitted  into  the  gym,  said  Specht. 

The  gym  will  be  closed  at  4:30  p.m. 
until  proper  supervision  is  found,  said 
Specht.  He  expressed  hope  that  the 
gym  will  be  available  in  the  near  future 
for  evening  use. 


Sepl.  19,  1983 


SPOTLIGHT 


Intramural  Athletics  Eligibility 

lEdiliir's  Nnle:  The  "IM  rules"  were  oblaiiied from  Ihe  coordimlor  of  inlramural  JnifUnlUrat  JOOWall 

aihleiics  and  College  aclivilies  and  are  published  in  iheir  enlirelv  by  The  ~nc^t^^r^   ^,,^   4^J„ 

SPOTLIGHT  as  a  campus  service.l  rOSlCrS  UUe  lOUay 


1.  Any  full-time  or  part-time  student,  faculty,  or  staff  of  The  Williamsport 
Area  Community  College  is  eligible  to  participate  in  the  College's  inlramural  ac- 
tivities. 

2.  Players  are  eligible  to  enter  as  an  individual  participant  or  as  a  member  of  a 
team  only  once  for  each  difi'erent  intramural  activity  offered. 

3.  A  member  of  a  varsity  squad  is  not  eligible  to  participate  in  an  intramural 
activity  which  is  the  same  sport  or  a  related  activity  to  which  he/she  is  presently  a 
varsity  participant. 

4.  Any  team  playing  with  an  ineligible  member  will  forfeit  all  events  in  which 
that  person  participated. 

5.  Any  individual  (participant  or  spectator)  who  acts  in  an  unsportsmanlike 
manner  is  subject  to  suspension  from  further  inlramural  activities. 

6.  Every  participant  is  responsible  for  knowing  and  adhering  lo  all  Ihe  rules 
and  regulations  governing  each  inlramural  activity. 

Any  questions  concerning  Ihe  College's  inlramural  athletic  program  should  be 
directed  to  the  Coordinator  of  Intramural  Athletics  and  College  Activities  in  the 
gyiTinasium. 

About  25  percent  of  civil  engineering 
students  continue  formal  training 


Civil  engineering  involves  the  plan- 
ning, designing,  and  constructing  of 
publickly  used  buildings. 

To  become  a  civil  engineer,  one 
must  attend  college  a  minimum  of  two 
years  -  although  many  students  con- 
tinue their  education  in  the  field  an  ad- 
ditional two  years  at  a  four-year  college 
or  university. 

"Approximately  25  percent  of  my 
students  go  on  for  additional  work  at  a 
four-year  college,"  slated  Lament  E. 
Butters,  associate  professor  of  civil 
engineering. 

December  grads 
must  'petition' 
by  Oct.  14 


Prospective  December  graduates 
must  complete  a  "petition  to  graduate" 
form  by  Friday,  Oct.  14,  according  to 
Mrs.  Therese  A.  Keen,  transcript  clerk 
in  the  College  Records  Office. 

The  blank  forms  may  be  picked  up 
at  Ihe  Student  Records  window  on  the 
first  floor  of  Ihe  Academic  Center,  she 
said. 

A  $5  fee  will  be  collected  when  Ihe 
completed  form  is  returned.  The  fee 
covers  the  cost  of  printing  the  diploma. 
The  clerk  explained  that  while  it  is  not 
necessary  lo  order  a  diploma,  it  is 
necessary  to  complete  Ihe  petition  to 
graduate  so  that  credentials  may  be 
evaluated. 

She  noted  that  diplomas  ordered 
after  Oct.  14  will  cost  an  additional  $5 
-  or  a  total  fee  of  $10  -  to  cover  costs 
of  special  handling. 

Women's  Forum 
schedules  meeting 

The  Women's  Forum  will  hold  an 
open  meeting  this  Wednesday  at  3  p.m. 
in  Room  103,  Academic  Center. 

Miss  Virginia  M.  Trowbridge,  one 
of  the  Women's  Forum  advisers,  said 
all  inlcresled  persons  are  "welcome  to  | 
alleiid  Ihe  meeliiig". 


Butters  and  Frederick  J.  Rankinen, 
professor  of  civil  engineering  at  the  Col- 
lege, are  advisers  to  the  Civil  Engineer- 
ing Technicians  Club. 

The  College  offers  a  two-year  civil 
engineering  program.  The  recent  enroll- 
menl  in  the  program  has  been  down 
slightly,  but  is  gradually  rising.  The 
economy  has  a  lot  to  do  with  Ihe  enroll- 
ment decline.  In  a  recession-type 
economic  period,  new  public  buildings 
arc  not  usually  bound  for  planning  or 
construction. 

Students  in  Ihe  civil  engineering 
program  have  participated  in  various 
group  projects  on  the  College's  various 
campuses. 

The  students  usually  take  part  in 
one  major  project  a  year.  This  year, 
students  are  working  on  designing  of  a 
new  parking  lot  on  the  west  side  of  the 
Williamsport  campus,  near  the 
Aulomolivc  Technology  Building. 


Touch  football  rosters  must  be 
returned  by  noon  today  to  the  in- 
tramural office,  second  door  on  the 
right  on  Ihe  first  fioor  of  the  Bardo 
Gym,  according  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiotti  ,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

Teams  may  consist  of  no  more 
than  20  persons  and  no  less  than  eight, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Once  rosters  have  been  turned  in,  a 
complete  list  of  rules  and  regulations 
may  be  picked  up,  added  Mrs.  Fremiot- 
fi. 

Touch  football  games  will  begin 
next  Monday,  Sepl.  26,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

Any  students  interested  in  in- 
lramural programs  may  contact  Mrs. 
Fremiotti  in  the  intramural  office. 

Soccer  rosters  available 

Persons  interested  in  intramural 
soccer  may  pick  up  rosters  in  the  in- 
lramural office,  second  door  on  Ihe 
right  on  the  first  floor  of  the  Bardo 
Gym,  today  through  noon  this  Friday, 
said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

The  deadline  lo  hand  rosters  in  is 
noon,  next  Monday,  Sepl.  26  in  the  in- 
lramural office,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotli. 

ID  cards  now  cost  $2 

Any  student  who  does  not  have  an 
ID  card  must  pay  a  charge  of  $2  at  the 
Cashier's  Office  and  will  then  gel  one 
from  the  Student  Aclivilies  Office, 
located  on  the  first  floor  of  Bardo  Gym, 
accordng  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  sports  and 
College  activities. 

All  students  must  carry  12  credits  to 
receive  an  ID  card,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 


THANK  YOU/ 

The  response  to  GENUINE  LOW  PRIChb  on  ou, 
records,  recortj  rentals,  and  Maxell  &  TDK 
blank  tapes  have  been  very  gratifying!  We  are 
now/  pleased  to  bring  you  many  fine  AUDIO 
COMPONENTS     at     OLD-TIME     PRlCESi 

GD  Pioiveeri 


COMING  SOON 
CERWIN  VEGA  Rock  Monitors 


1 


We  have  the  lowest  prices 

IMAXELL  &  TDK  TAPES 

%eTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 

PHONE:    323-9599 
81/2  W.  Fourth  St. Williamsport,  PA  17701|| 


SPOTLIGHT 


Sept.  19,  1983  • 


SPOTLIGHTing  students. 


SCANMNG  magazines  in  Ihe  College  Library  is  Darryl  B.  Arndl,  a  tool  design 
sludenl  frdm  Richfield.  /SPOTLIGHT  p/iolo  by  Lori  M.  Lune/ 


READY  TO  GIVE  inlormaliun  about  Phi  Beta  Lambda  during  Sludenl  Acquain- 
ance  Week  earlier  Ihis  semesler  were  Carol  A.  Hill,  tompuler  science  sludenl 

^^^n^TuT  '!"•  M''  ,'"•  *"'■'"'•  '"'""P"'"  '"""'  ""^'"^  f"""  Canl..n. 

/SPOTLIGHT  p/iolo  by  Lori  M.  Lane/ 


Sep(.  19,  1983  SPOTLIGHT  7 


STREAMING  SMOKE  [upper  righl|  jusi  18  fee(  off  (he  runway  is  Leo 
Loudenslager  during  his  performance  in  his  aeroba(ic  Laser  200  alrcraf(.  In 
lefl  pho(o,  obscurity  in  flight  is  demonstrated  by  Steve  Snyder  in  the  Para- 
Plane.    The  Para-Plane  or  Para-Sail  is  labelled  a  recreation  vehicle  more 


than  a  working  aircraft.  In  lower  right  photo,  the  C-5  Galaxy  cargo  plane  is 
shown  open  for  display  this  year,  as  it  has  been  In  past  shows.  Spectators 
were  able  to  walk  through  the  plane's  main  hull  and  talk  to  the  crew. 

/SPOTLIGHT  plioliis  by  Kalhy  ForemanI 


Air  show  brings  famous  names    Computer  Science  picnic  next  week 


The  1983  Williamsport  National 
Air  Show,  held  in  Montoursville,  com- 
memoraled  the  200th  anniversary  of 
manned  flight. 

Flight  activities  began  Saturday, 
Sept.  10,  and  ended  Sunday,  Sept.  11. 
Both  days  opened  with  a  matinee  which 
included  a  World  War  II  fly-by  of  vin- 
tage war  planes.  The  feature  shows  in- 
cluded such  famous  names  as  Leo 
Loudenslager,  Robert  Hoover,  Al  Hauff 
and  An  Scholl. 

This  year's  grand  marshal  was 
Senator  John  H.  Glenn.  Senator  Glenn 
arrived  in  a  private  aircraft  manned  by 
himself,  and  was  accompanied  by  his 

Goldfeder  serves 
with  special  group 

Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  business  education,  is  one  of 
12  members  in  an  Exemplary  Program 
Criteria  for  Business  Educali(m. 

The  program,  coordinated  by  Ver- 
non L.  Register,  is  for  secondary  educa- 
tion programs  in  Pennsylvania. 

The  Business  Education  Task 
Force  of  the  Stale  DeparlmenI  of 
Educalion  heads  Ihe  project. 

Schools  whose  programs  arc  deem- 
ed exemplary  will  receive  funding  in  Ihc 
form  of  grants  from  the  deparlmeni  of 
educalion,  slated  Goldfeder. 


wife.  Senator  Glenn  addressed  Ihe  large 
crowd  with  a  speech  on  America's  pro- 
ud aviation  history.  "Hundreds  of  jobs 
depend  on  Ihe  aircraft  industry,"  staled 
Senator  Glenn,  adding  that  America 
could  "oulplan,  outproduce,  out- 
compete"  any  of  her  competition. 


The  Computer  Science  Club  will  hold  a  picnic  next  Wednesday,  Sept.  28,  at 
the  home  of  Gary  R.  Knebel,  computer  science  instructor  and  club  adviser,  accor- 
ding to  Charles  E.  Deitrick,  computer  science  student  from  Jersey  Shore. 

The  picnic  will  be  from  3  p.m.  until  dark. 

Computer  science  students  and  computer  operator  students  interested  in  par- 
ticipating should  attend  the  next  club  meeting  -  at  3:30  p.m.,  Tuesday,  Sept.  27,  in 
Room  321,  Academic  Center  -  for  directions  and  further  details,  Deitrick  said. 


SPOTLIGHT  Sepl.  19,  1983 


Riif  T  FTiNRoAiin  College  enrollment  up  5  percent 

UUljljEilli^    UV/%m7  •••ConimuedfiomPagel  monlh.    He  emphasized.  "The  College 


For  ilie  week  of  Sept.  12  through  Sept.  IS 

MEETINGS 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  4  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Room  329,  Academic  Center. 

SPORTS 
Golf...  against  Norlhamplon  County  Community  College,  I  p.m.,  home. 
Cross  country...  against  Community  College  of  Philadelphia  and  Luzerne 
County  Community  College,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow,  home. 

Golf...  against  Pcnn  State  University,  DuBois  Campus,  I  p.m.,  Thursday, 
away. 

SPECIAL  ACTIVITIES 
Rollerskafing...  sponsored  by  Student  Transition  Committee,  8  to  10:30  p.m., 
Wednesday,  Skating  Plus,  Williamsporl. 

College  seeking  part-time  evening 
supervisor  of  College  activities 

A  casual  part-time  evening  supervisor  of  College  activities  is  being  sought  by 
the  College,  according  to  an  announcement  from  the  College's  Personnel  Services 
Office. 

Among  other  duties,  the  person  hired  for  the  position  would  be  responsible  for 
on-site  supervision  of  College  activities  and  programs  as  well  as  assisting  in  related 
routine  functions  and  would  supervise  College  work-study  students.  A  detailed  list 
of  duties  is  available  from  the  Personnel  Services  Office. 

The  announcement  notes  that  the  pay  is  $3.35  an  hour  and  that  the  position 
would  be  effective  immediately  and  through  May  12,  1984. 

A  letter  of  application,  resume,  and  the  names,  addresses,  and  telephone 
numbers  of  three  personal  or  professional  references  are  being  rcqucsled  by  the  Per- 
sonnel Services  Office. 

Additional  information,  including  details  about  minimum  qualifications  re- 
quired, IS  available  from  the  Personnel  Services  Office. 


•  ••Conlinuedfi 

He  presented  an  analysis  compar- 
ing last  spring  and  again  in  mid-July, 
which  showed  substantial  fiuctualions. 
This,  he  said,  demonstrates  the  dif- 
ficulties in  projecting  enrollment  which 
have  led  to  disputes  between  the  College 
and  the  sponsoring  districts. 

The  president  said  the  College  "ale 
"half  of  the  difference  in  the  pre-student 
costs  last  year  due  to  the  difference  in 
"too  high"  projections. 

He  expressed  a  hope  that  the  ques- 
tion of  how  to  handle  supplemental  bill- 
ings would  be  resolved  at  a  planned 
meeting  of  (he  executive  council  next 


month.  He  emphasized,  "The  College 
doesn't  care  how  the  additional  cost  to 
districts  is  split.  It  has  simply  been 
following  what  a  majority  of  the 
superintendents  indicated  was  their 
■choice." 

Harry  L.  Dictrick,  chairman  of  the 
executive  council,  noted  thai  attendance 
is  usually  poor  for  superintendents, 
meetings  and  the  decision  to  split  costs 
equally  had  been  made  by  a  small 
number.  This  decision  has  brought 
strong  objections  from  some  districts. 
He  also  added  the  hope  for  a  solution  at 
the  upcoming  executive  council  meeting. 


Rollerskafing  this  Wednesday 

The  Sludcnl  Transition  Committee  will  sponsor  free  rollerskaling  from  8  to 
10:30  p.m.  Wednesday  at  Skating  Plus  for  students  with  proper  identification,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Frcmioiti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

Students  may  obtain  tickets  in  Mrs.  Fremiotti's  office  on  the  first  fioor  of  Bar- 
do  Gym.  Guest  tickets  are  on  sale  for  $1  in  Mrs.  Fremiotti's  office.  Anyone 
without  proper  ID  own  advance  ticket  will  be  charged  $2  admission  at  the  door, 
slated  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


SiWJiWSSSJS?'-''".?"''??^" 


Accident  victim's 
condition  improves 

The  condition  of  accident  victim 
Loraine  Magargle  has  improved 
somewhat,  according  to  a  spokesman  at 
the    William.sporl  Hospital. 

Daniel  C.  Day,  assistant  director  of 
public  information  at  the  hospital,  said 
last  Wednesday  thai  Magargle,  74,  was 
moved  from  intensive  care  to  a  medical 
floor  and  is  now  in  satisfactory  condi- 
tion. 

Magargle,  30  N.  Broad  St., 
Hughesville,  was  admitted  Sept.  7  for 
treatment  of  multiple  injuries  after  being 
struck  by  a  car  while  crossing  West 
Third  Street  in  front  of  the  Academic 
Center. 


BEGINNING  THIS  WLLK,  caiioons  by  Mur- 
ray J.  Hantorii.  advenising  an  sludenl  from 
Hughesville,  will  appear  regularly  in  The 
SPOTLIGHT.  See  Page  2. 


gWMWM  mini, 
/9inmarket 


Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts 

Gas         Groceries 
Snacks      Tobacco 

^^Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays       J 


Tot  Watch 
service  available 

Tot  Watch  services  are  available 
from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  Monday  through 
Friday  during  the  academic  year,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Mary  L.  Bardo,  manager 
of  Tot  Watch. 

Parents  are  responsible  for  pro- 
viding and  supervising  lunch  for  their 
children.  It  is  an  educational  experience 
along  with  supervised  play,  Mrs.  Bardo 
said. 

Registration  fee  is  $5  per  semester. 
The  fee  per  hour  is  $1.25  per  child  for 
full-time  students  and  $1.75  per  child 
for  others.  There  are  some  openings 
still  available,  said  Mrs.  Bardo. 

SAFETY  GLASSES 
Atlenlion   Students:    Required   safely 
glasses  are  now  on  sale  in  (he  College 
Bookstore.    These  safely  glasses  meet 
all  College  requiremenls. 

THEY  WANT  CARS  TO  WORK  ON 

Aulo  mechanics  students  are  look- 
ing for  work  on  lune-up,  eleclricai, 
lransmi,ssion,  and  minor  engine  repairs. 
See    Mr.    Hammond,    Room    119, 
Automotive  Technology  Center. 


About  100  students 
at  North  Campus 

About  100  students  are  enrolled  in 
classes  at  North  Campus,  Wellsboro, 
according  to  Mrs.  Calhryn  E.  Addy, 
director  of  North  Campus. 

Included  are  27  practical  nursing 
students,  27  full-lime  computer  science 
majors  and  10  secretarial  science  ma- 
jors. The  rest  are  part-time  sludents 
taking  just  one  or  two  classes,  said  Ad- 
dy. 

Most  of  the  classes  at  North  Cam- 
pus are  afternoon  and  evening  clas.ses. 
This  is  to  accommodate  students  who 
work  full-time.  The  majority  of 
students  are  from  Wellsboro,  but  there 
are  students  from  Morris,  Elkland, 
Ulysses,  Mansfield,  Blossburg,  Cov- 
ington, Tioga,  Middlebury  Center  and 
Weslbury,  stated  Addy. 

The  building  renovations  are  not 
yet  complete,  but  all  inside  construction 
is  expected  to  be  completed  by  Oct.  1. 

Also,  North  Campus  will  be  having 
a  formal  open  house  on  Oct.  22  and  23, 
said  Addy. 


MANUAL  TYPEWRITER:  excclleni  DARKROOM     OUTFIT:     includes 

condition!   If  interested,  contact  Sieve  '"'^fgef'     <"™ff.     'anks     &     reels, 

McDonald,    Media   Cenler.    College  '"ys.and  storage  bottles.  MINT  CON- 

exl.  430.  DITION,     major     brand     names. 

. CALL:323-8280  after  5  p.m. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  SI.,  Williamsporl 

INai  10  Klump  Academic  Center/ 
PHONE  AHEAD:    3221321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


FOLKSINGER  TO  PERFORM 

AS  FIRST  STUDENT  EVENT  IN  'NEW  AUDITORIUM 


SPOTLIGHT 
WINS  AWARD 


CROSS  COUNTRY 
TEAM  TAKES  MEET 


IM  BOWLING 
STARTS  TOMORROW 


o 

H 
H 


Monday,  Sept.  26,  1983     ■    Vol.  19,  No.  5     ■    8  Pages 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College    ■    Williamsport,  Pa. 


^QSPOTLIGHTUManda.v.  Sepl.  26.  I9U 

High  technology...  will  it  even  out  in  the  end? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion  $80,000.  depending  on  Ihe  complexity  of  work  a  robot  can  do.    Is  ttiis  really  a 

Higti  technology  -  is  il  just  anottier  fornn  of  economic  suicide?  savings  wtien  ttie  average  American  only  makes  $1 5.000  per  year' 

Many  say  ttiat  robots  cut  labor  costs  while  improving  quality  and  increasing  US   News  and  World  Report  believes  that  by  the  year  2000    I  3  million 

productivity,  but  what  will  they  do  to  the  semi-skilled  worker?  For  Ihem,  il  will  be  workers  will  be  displaced  by  robots.   What  will  become  of  these  people"?   How 

difficull  to  relocate  and  lind  new  jobs  will  they  survive' 

The  machines  are  not  cheap.     Typical  prices  range  from  $25,000  to  How  long  will  it  be  before  the  experts  begin  programming  people? 


Music  industry's  video  production   is  fiere  to  stay 

comments  reviewer  Richard  E.  Kopp 

The  newest  wave  to  score  big  in  Ihe  music  industry  is  video,  a  process  in  ..p  .,  tv  ■  ,nH  ■c  ^      m    k,  w..       - 

., ..    .  .  •  .►-=00..  F  M  TV    and    Friday  Night  Videos    are  very  sir 


which  artisls  set  th'eir' music  to  some  sort  of  stage  production   thus  producmo     .p  7  m  ^n  w'h"''  "^T^'^  ^'T  ^""°' '  '"  '"'^  """'"  '°  "'^"'^°'^°''^"  ^"'' 
music  you  can  "watch,"  P'oouciion.  inus  producing      Friday  Nighl  Videos    has  a  voting  system  in  which  they  pick  two  videos  and  Ihe 

Through  Ihe  use  of  the  latest  television  graphics,  dance,  stage  production. 


a-r'-^v,   WW-WW,    oiavjc   f^l  UUUl^lIUr  I, 

photographs,  and  a  variety  of  other  techniques,  a  musician  can  create  very  in- 
teresting television  for  people  to  watch  while  listening  to  their  favorile  music. 

M      M      I 

W^ilh  the  adveni  of  Ihe  videos,  there  is  becoming  a  wide  variety  of  programs 
to  choose  from, 

IVITV.  a  commercial  free  pay  service  similar  to  ■■Spotlight  •■  is  dedicated 
almost  solely  to  music  videos.  This  service,  which  can  be  rented  from  the  local 
cable  company,  Is  growing  fast  in  popularity 

The  networks,  realizing  how  popular  videos  are  becoming,  have  decided  lo 
cash  in  on  il.  In  recent  months  several  new  television  shows  have  been  introduc- 
ed for  the  airing  of  video  music.  These  shows,  which  are  sponsored  by  commer- 
cials, add  no  cost  lo  the  viewers  cable  bill  unlike  MTV 


viewers  can  call  in  and  vote  for  their  favorite  one 

■■Night  Flight"  which  also  shows  videos,  does  not  limit  its  show  to  just  video 
It  also  has  a  section  of  artist  interviews,  a  new  wave  theater,  and  many  other  in- 
leresling  topics. 

Other  shows  that  have  been  around  for  awhile  are  also  getting  in  on  the 
video  age.^'    Shows  like  "American  Bandstand,"  occasionally  show  videos 
Dancing  on  Air,"  a  popular  daytime  show  similar  to  "American  Bandstand  "  a 
show  where  young  adults  can  go  to  dance,  shows  videos 


"Americas  Top  10  reviews  a  video  once  a  week  and  "Solid  Gold"  has  a 
video  ol  Ihe  week 

"Entertainment  Tonight,"  which  is  an  all  around  look  at  all  aspects  ol  Ihe 
enlertainment  world  will  occasionally  show  videos 
I'    II    II  '"'^P°P"'3^"y  °' "deos  seems  to  be  growing  rapidly  and  artists  are  willinq  lo 

Video  Rock''  is  a  half-hour  ol  nothing  but  videos,  usually  showing  live  or  six     l^         ^'^  ^"''^^'  '°  ^^^^  "^<==«  ^'^eos  made,  which  makes  it  seem  like  they  are 
different  videos  per  show  nere  to  stay  ' 


'Webster'  vs  'Diff'rent  Strokes' 

-it's  a  m/te-y  battle  says  reviewer  Donna  M.  Barnett 

What  happens  when  Web-.ler,  (porirayed  by  Emmanuel  Lewis)  a  willy  rich 
three-piece  suit  clad  lour-year-old  pops  into  Ihe  newly  married  lives  of  bumbling' 
?rllTK  o  °'^^  (PO^'^aved  by  Alex  Karras)  and  refined,  realistic  Kalherine  (por- 
trayed by  Susan  Clark)  Popodopolis? 

-r^ou  can  Imd  out  by  watching  "Webster"  on  Friday  nights  at  8  p,m  on  ABC 
Webster  seems  lo  be  ABC's  retaliation  lo  NBC's  "Dilfrent  Strokes"    Com- 

^n^th!  °'i',h'  t'"'';^°"  "'''  "'"  ''"^'  "'"y'  y°""9  ^°'°'«<^  t>oys  Who  move 
inio  the  wealthy  households  ol  their  white  godparents.  Both  ol  Ihe  series  deal 
with  he  growing  pains  ol  the  children  and  how  Ihey  work  out  common  everyday 
problems  with  Ihe  help  ol  their  godparents  ' 

Cc)ns,dering  how  well  "Dilt'renl  Strokes"  went  over  when  il  first  premiered 
Webster    will  probably  go  over  the  same  way  with  the  public 


Something  to  think  about... 

Aristotle  once  said  that  Ihe  roots  of  education  are  bitter  but  the  fruil 
IS  sweet. 

No  act  of  kindness  -  no  matter  how  small  -  is  ever  wasted 
Sometimes  life  can  be  an  endless  trudge  up  the  down  escalator 


Wilt  not  just  for  sports  fans, 
but  for  anyone 

says  Joseph  P.  Povelski  reviewing  book 

Wilt  is  a  complex  book  on  a  complex  man  Wilt  Chamberlain  was  probably 
the  greatest  player  to  ever  step  loot  on  a  basketball  court  But  this 
autobiography  deals  more  with  the  man's  personal  leelings  than  with  a  dunk  he 
made  over  Zelmo  Beaty  in  a  1964  contest. 

Chamberlain  speaks  out  on  his  views  ol  racism,  on  supporting  Nixon  ,n  the 
68  eleclion,  being  black  in  America,  and  sex  and  marriage 

Wilt  shows  Ihe  immense  confidence  Chamberlain  has  in  himself 

The  book  can  certainly  attest  to  his  self-assurance.  "I  can  pass  belter  than 
Joe  Namath  and  drive  better  than  Dan  Gurney  and  cook  belter  than  Graham  Kerr 
To  be  perfectly  honest,  probably  only  two  of  these  three  statements  are  true  " 

Chamberlain  also  is  not  afraid  lo  speak  ol  others  exactly  Ihe  way  he  feels 
He  says  controversial  things  about  some  of  Ihe  greatest  players  ever  lo  dawn  the 
Nationa  Basketball  Association  (NBA).  He  lakes  you  Irom  his  years  at  Kan  as 
University  right  up  to  the  1973  playofls.  y  <■  ^  ai  Kansas 

Will  also  includes,  as  you  would  expect,  his  most  memorable  games  his 
s  no  tle«  n'fh'"       '''"''  '"'  "'°  ^"  '°"9'"='  <^°'^Pe'i'°^s  were.  Baske'tball 

I  the      mn^ir  Tf'"!:  '"'  ''  "'  ''""'  '°'^"'  ''°''  "°'  """"'"^'^  'h«  book 
either.    Wilt  is  not  just  lor  the  sports  fan,  but  for  anyone 


About  the  cover. 


Depicted  on  today's  cover  are  photographs 
of:  James  K.  Wheaton,  conslruction  carpentry  stu- 
dent from  Turbotville,  at  work  on  the  new  Proles- 
sional  Development  Center  (upper  lelt):  Edward  T 
Wills,  a  member  of  the  College's  cross  country 
team  crossing  the  linish  line  as  Coach  Phillip  D 


Landers  hands  him  a  place-finishing  stick,  and 
folksinger  Ted  Sleranko  who  will  perform  Ihis 
Wednesday  in  Ihe  newly-renovaled  Academic 
Center  Auditorium.  [Construction  pttolo  by  Lori  M 
Lane:  cross  country,  by  Kathy  R.  Foreman,  and 
lotksinger  photo  courtesy  of  the  artist] 


SPOTLIGHT 

Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  IS  published  each 
Monday  morning  ol  the  academic  yea.  by 
lournaiism  and  other  interested  students 
at  the  Williamsporl  Area  Community  Col- 
lege. 1005  W  Third  SI,  Williamsporl 
Pa  17701  Telephone  326  3761  Ext 
221, 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  ol 
Ihe  sludenl  newspaper,  ol  individual 
virnlers  or  ol  indiviauais  interviewed  and 
do  not  relied  Ihe  opinion  ol  Ihe  mslilu 

The  SPOTLIGHT  ,s  a  member  or  It 
Columbia  Scholasix  Press  Assoaaimn 


the 


il^ary  L.  Pease 

f^anaging  Editor 

Annette  M.  Engel 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Thomas  H.  Long 

Advertising  Director 

Perry  D.  Pentz 

Sporls  Editor 

Lorl  M.  Lane 

Photography  Editor  (Days) 

Bafbl  L.  Chllson 

Photography  Editor  (Evenings) 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darkroom  Manager 


Gregory  W.  Hull 

Features  Editor 
Joan  L-  Thompson 

Adminislialive  Altairs  Edit 


STAFF:  Donna  M  Barnetl,  Jo  A  Fntz 
Kalhiyn  M  Gilbert.  Shawn  W  Heverly 
Lon  L  Holland.  Rachel  P  Levinson 
Kathy  A  Meixel,  Robert  w  Minier 
James  K  Morrissey,  Gaiy  A  Nichols 
Joseph  P  Povleski,  Tiacey  Willette' 
Richard  E  Kopp,  Marcy  Card,  Murray  j' 
Hanlord,  and  Kathy  R  Foreman 
Anthony  N.  Cillo.  Faculty  Adviser 

Production  Team  This  Issue:  Sarbi  L 
Chllson,  produclion  supervisor  Kay  M 
Frace,  videocomposilion:  Greg  W  Hull 
copy  editor:  Donna  M  Barnett  Shawn  W 
Heverly,  Lon  L  Holland,  and  Richard  E 
Kopp,  produclion  assislanis 


SPOTI,ICHT[JMonda>,  Sepl.  26,  ]m3 


Folk  singer  to  perform  Wednesdays- 
first  student  event  in  ''new''  auditorium 


Folk  singer  Ted  Steranko 
will  perform  from  7;30  lo  9:30 
p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  in  Ihe 
Academic  Center  Auditorium, 
according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College 
activities. 

The  performance  will 
mark  the  first  student  govern- 
ment sponsored  event  in  Ihe 


newly  renovated  auditorium. 

"This  will  give  students  ait 
opportunity  to  see  the  changes 
in  the  auditorium  as  well  as  to 
enjoy  Ihe  music,"  the  coor- 
dinator said. 

Steranko  is  more  than  a 
singer,  she  said;  he  is  an  enter- 
tainer. He  does  such 
memorable  songs  as  "Time  in 
a    Bollle",    by    Jim    Croce; 


"Heart  of  Gold",  by  Neil 
Young;  "American  Pie",  by 
Don  McLean,  and  many  more 
by  well-known  artists. 

He  also  does  several 
original  songs  such  as  "Plop 
Plop,  Fizz  Fizz",  a  satire  on 
television  commercials,  and  a 
very  special  love  song  entitled 
"Special  Lady". 

His  business  card  reads 


"Ted  Steranko,  Contemporary 
Vocalist/Musician  Booking 
Agent,  and  All  Around  Nice 
Guy". 

Steranko  is  originally  from 
Reading,  Pa.  and  has  been 
playing  guitar  for  nine  years. 

The  performance  is  spon- 
sored by  the  Student  Govern- 
ment Association  (SGA)  and 
admission  is  free  to  everyone, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 


Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  meets  tomorrow  College  band  sets  Tuesday  meeting 

Alpha  Omega  will  meet  tomorrow  at  7  p.m.  in  Room  229,  Academic  Center.  The  College  Band  will  meet  Tuesday  from  4:30  to  630  p  m  in  Ihe  Academic 

The  meelmg  is  open  to  anyone  interested,  stated  Paiti  Detwciler,  vice  president  Center  Auditorium, 
of  the  club.  The  meeting  is  opened  to  anyone  interesled  in  joining  the  jazz  band,  according 

Ihe  group  is  planning  to  go  to  a  B.A.S.LC.  retreat  at  Elim  Bible  College,  '»  James  B.  Shaw,  assislani  professor  of  physics  and  club  adviser. 
Ehm   N.  Y.  Last  year  the  jazz  band  performed  at  an  open  house  at  the  College  and  at  the 

Other    elected    officers    are    Dean    Long,    presideni,    and    Lisa    Gales,  Williamsport  Hospital, 
secretary/treasurer. 


Long  range  planning  process  continues  with  observations 


The  long  range  planning  process,  a 
College  administrative  body  consisting 
of  several  separate  committees,  is  cur- 
rently observing  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College,  according  to  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle,  steering  committee 
chairperson 

The  steering  committee,  designed 
lo  organize  and  "pull  together"  the 
other  commiUees  in  long  range  plann- 
ing, oversees  all  committees  by  guiding 


and  coordinating. 

The  eight  other  committees  are 
programs,  instruction,  instructional 
resources,  human  resources,  students, 
organization  and  governance,  physical 
plant,  and  financial  planning. 

Each  of  the  committees  "looks  at 
these  specific  areas,"  said  Doyle.  Com- 
mittee members  are  faculty,  administra- 
tion, and  sometimes  appointed  trustees. 
Four  College  students,  chosen  by  the 


Student  Government  Association  Tran- 
sition Committee  are  on  the  steering  and 
student  commmittees. 

Long  range  planning  gathers  iirfbr- 
malion  from  past  years  lo  focus  on  the 
future.  The  committees  use  information 
to  write  new  admission  policies,  discuss 
expenses,  responsibilities  and  objectives 
to  achieve  over  the  coming  years. 

The  results  from  this  information 
go  toward  helping  the  community,  the 


College,   and   the  .students,   said   Dr. 
Doyle. 

The  College  is  anticipating  the  ar- 
rival ofrepresentatives  from  the  Middle- 
Stales  Association  in  April.  The 
Association,  which  accredits  the  Col- 
lege, visits  colleges  and  universities  in 
Ihe  Mid-Atlantic  states. 

"Their  purpose  is  to  endorse  Ihe 
quality  of  the  institution  and  education 
that  the  College  provides,"  explained 
Dr  Doyle 


Computer  Science  Club  nominates   candidates;  election  tomorrow 


The  above  students  are  all  in  the 


At  the  first  meeting  of  the  Com-  pro-tempore.  president;   Belh   E.   Hackell    ^ 

puler  Science  Club  nominations  were  The  nominees  are  Ronald  A.  Frye,  Lori  A.  Mengee,  Wellsbnro  'secreiary'    computer  science  curriculum 

held   for  ckib   officers,   according  lo  Millon,  Shari  L.  Wagner,  Lewistown,  and  Slacey  M.  Alters,  Bcllefonle,  Carol  Elections  will  lake  place  tomorrow 

Charles  E.  Deilrick,  a  computer  science  president;  Brenda  L.  Fye,  Lock  Haven,  A.  Hill    Muncy    Walter  J    Hubbard 

sludenl  from  Jersey  Shore  and  president  Cynthia  A.   Levchak,  Starrucca,  vice  Danville,  treasurer 


at  3:30  p.m.  in  Room  321,  Academic 
Center,  said  Deilrick. 


Drollo-Crypto 


Here's  this  week's  droll  cryptomessage.  Clues:  The  message  has  to 
do  with  something  that  none  of  us  has  enough  of...  and....Z  stands  for 
T,  while  D  stands  for  0.   Have  fun! 


MYZZXTL       GDCF       RXTLYFO       QD 
IVMUXTL        XO       DUVG        XR       GDC 
ZD        VMIVGO        WY        MDDUXTL       VZ 
IDFMQ       CBOXQY       QDIT 

Solution  to  last  week's  Drollo-Crypto 

A  penny  saved  is  a  penny  earned  - 

until  the  Internal  Revenue  Service 

finds  out  about  it. 

Solution  lo  this  week 's  puzzie:  next  week. 


ZAY 
IVTZ 
ZAY 


Veterans  must  give  sciiedules  to    Financial    Aid    Office 

All  students  eligible  to  receive 
Veterans  Administration  Educational 
benefits  should  have  reported  lo  Ihe 
Financial  Aid  Office,  Room  201, 
Academic  Center,  according  lo  Mrs 
Louanna  Y 
specialist. 


Mrs.  King  said  she  would  like  a 
copy  of  class  schedules. 

Eligibility  for  Veterans  Administra- 
tion  (VA)   benefits   is  dependent  on 
enrollment  status  and  it  is  important 
King,    veterans    affairs    Ihal  changes  in  Ihe  schedule  are  noted, 
Mrs.  King  said. 


The  Hair  Affair 

unisex  hair  designers 
5%  ilisLoiinl  with  sliideiU  ID  card 


Located     insideTHE     URBAN  Sharon  Bower:  owner 

COLONY  130  W.  Fourth  St  PHONE:  326-2349 


4DSPOTLICHTDMonday.  Sepl.  26.  I9S3 


Graphics  By 
Murray  J.  Hanford 


Steven  T.  McCall 
of  Lock  Haven 


ONSTRUCTIC 


Progress  continut 

of  new  Professional  D 

on  lower  Susque 

where  students  si 

In  constri 


Samuel  R.  Wert, 

of  Lock  Haven, 

and 

Robert  D.  Henry, 
of  Willlamsport 


SPOTLIGHT  wins  first 
place   in  Columbia  rating 


By  Kathryn  M.  Gilberl 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

SPOJUQHT  has  won  a  first  place  award  from  the  Columbia  Scholastic 
Press  Association,  which  is  considered  the  most  prestlgons  association  to  evaHralfi' 
student  newspapers. 

SPOTLIGHT  has  consistently  won  awards  in  this  rating  service.  The  award 
IS  not  based  on  compelilion  with  other  papers,  but  rather  on  achievement  in  profes- 
sional categories  including  content/coverage,  writing/editing,  design/display  and 
crealivity.  e        k   j 


SPOTLIGHTI    Monday.  Sepl.  26,  IQSjS 


Spotlight  Photos  By 
LoRi  M.  Lane 


Russell  E.  Counsll 
of  Mill  Hall 


ION    I  RADES 


nues  at  work  site 
il  Development  Center 
quehanna  Street 
s  show  their  skills 
structlon 


Overall  view 
of  student 
construction 
area 


The  evalualion  nolcd  a  limely,  composite  report  on  the  changes  in  the  drunk 
driving  laws,  which  the  student  staff  presented  in  Dec.  1982,  before  the  new  laws 
became  effective,  according  to  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  as,sociale  professor  of  jOui'nalism 
and  faculty  adviser.  •    " 

Staff  positions  with  the  student  newspaper  are  rotated  each  semester.  Last 
year's  staff  with  their  first  semester  assignment  and  second  semester  assignment 
shown  respectively  included: 

George  A.  Gintcr,  managing  editor  and  then  editorial  page  editor;  Robert  0. 
Rolley  Jr.,  photography  editor  and  managing  editor;  Wendy  S,  Sherman,  features 


editor/advertising  director;  Valerie  J.  Roberts,  editorial  page  editorial/sports  editor; 
Cindy  L.  DeVore,  administrative  affairs  editor/features  editor;  Patricia  F.  Glasz, 
staff  photographer/photography  editor;  Chris  E.  Bankes,  sports  editor/  student  ac- 
tivities editor;  Marsha  J.  Roux,  student  activities  editor/administrative  affairs 
editor,  and  Judy  Eckert,  advertising  director  first  semester. 

Reporters/writers/staff  associates  were  Barbi  L.  Chilson,  Gisela  D.  Grassley, 
Annette  M.  Engel,  Denisc  Y.  Enigk,  Kay  M.  Frace,  Gregory  W.  Huff,  Lori  M. 
Lane,  Meredith  A.  Lewis,  Thomas  H.  Long,  Karen  M.  Metarko,  Thomas  F.  Mon- 
tgomery, Tracy  L.  Moyer,  Mary  L.  Pease,  Perry  D.  Pentz,  Debbie  L.  Prosper, 
Steven  T.  Sleppy,  Joan  L.  Thompson. 


6DSPOTLIGHTnMond«>.  Scpl.  26.  198.1 


Soccer  rosters 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

H>  Perri  r)    PenI;,  SPOTI.K.HT  Spmlv  Kdilipr 


due  today 


Wilh  Ihc  College's  sporls  culs  announced,  some  slutlenls  toninicm  "il's  nol 
fair",  and  "il's  a  shame."  The  sludenls  are  Irving  lo  llnd  people  lo  blame  bul  ihe 
blame  is  .slaring  Ihcm  back  in  Ihc  face.  Yes,  pari  of  the  blame  is  Ihc  sludenls 
themselves. 

Many  sludenls  do  nol  realize  ihc  parlicipalion  in  Ihcse  sporls  was  nol  up  to  Ihe 
caliber  which  College  officials  wanted.    So  ihcy  eliminalcd  ihcm. 
<«  ■  »■ 

The  issue  which  we  have  here  is  lack  of  parlicipalion,  both  within  Ihc  sports 
and  with  student  body  nol  supporting  Ihc  College  teams  as  fans.  In  women's 
basketball,  coaches  had  a  hard  time  finding  enough  girls  lo  form  a  team  so  it  was 
cut.  Sludenl  support  in  the  sport  was  nol  what  il  should  have  been  and  therefore 
the  College  administration  .saw  fit  lo  cut  it.  Wrestling  had  enough  players  out,  bul 
students  did  not  go  out  lo  watch  the  team.  Continuing,  wrestling  was  wasting  the 
College's  money  by  having  to  keep  Ihe  lights  on  and  gym  open. 
•«  ■  »- 

Fan  participation  in  sporls  at  Ihe  College  is  almost  non-existent.  If  more  per- 
sons would  go  and  watch  the  teams  representing  the  College,  then  il  would  be  wor- 
thwhile lo  keep  the  sporls  on  the  schedule. 

When  most  people  enter  college,  they  somehow  associate  college  athletics  wilh 
college.  For  some  reason,  the  student  body  here  al  Ihe  College  must  nol  care  if  we 
have  sporls  or  not.   If  students  care,  then  show  il  by  supporting  the  College  teams. 

Some  students  here  have  no  idea  what  intercollegiate  sports  are  offered  and  il 
is  these  students  who  hurl  the  College  athletic  program. 
•«  ■  »- 

So  until  the  College's  student  body  supports  the  sports,  the  students  will  have 
to  do  without  the  sporls  which  were  cut.  Maybe  students  will  begin  to  go  to  Ihe 
sporting  events  (golf,  cro.ss  country,  tennis,  and  basketball).  In  the  future,  if  student 
support  goes  down  then  Ihc  College  might  climinale  sports  all  together. 

The  College  is  faced  wilh  this  question  about  intercollegiate  sporls:  Why  spend 
the  money  on  sporls  when  students  do  not  support  the  teams? 

Until  sludenls  prove  Ihcy  are  interested,  the  money  allocated  for  intercollegiate 
sporls  will  probably  diminish  from  the  College  budget  year  lo  year. 

Sludenls,  it's  up  to  you.  If  you  want  sporls  lo  stay  al  Ihe  College,  support  the 
li';ii)is  hv  L'MiiiL'  III  sec  Ihcm  p,iilKip;ilc,    Ma\l)c  if  llic  iiipiil  in  llic  sports  is  great 

IM  bowling  starts  tomorrow 

Intramural  bowling  starts  tomorrow  at  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave.,  Anyone  who  has  signed  up  must  see  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  in  order  lo  be  sanctioned 

Williamsporl,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural  by  the  College,  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  said.  She  added  that  even  if  someone  signed  up  al 

athletics  and  College  Activilies.  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  he  or  she  must  still  sec  her  to  be  sanctioned. 

The  collegiate-sanctioned  league  will  cost  $2.75  for  three  games.  This  fee  in-  For  further  information,  students  may  contact  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  in  the  in- 
cludes bowling  shoes,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli.  iramural  athletics  and  College  activilies  office  or  call  Ext.  269, 


Intramural  soccer  ro.stcrs  arc  due  in 
Ihc  intramural  and  College  activilies  of- 
fice today,  according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

Male,  female,  and  co-ed  teams  arc 
welcome  and  encouraged  lo  sign-up, 
said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli. 

Any  persons  who  have  questions 
may  contact  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  in  Ihe  in- 
Iramural  athletics  and  College  activities 
office  or  call  Ext.  269. 


Tennis  team 
takes  conference 
championship 

The  College  tennis  team  in  the  spr- 
ing compiled  a  5-0  season  record  in  cap- 
luring  Ihe  Eastern  Pennsylvania  Com- 
munity College  Alhlelic  Conference 
(EPCCAC)  championship  over  Bucks 
County  Community  College,  according 
to  Harry  C.  Specht,  coordinator  of  in- 
lercollcgiatc  athletics. 

The  team  finished  second  in  Ihc 
conference  tournament  behind  Bucks 
County  Community  College,  said 
Specht. 


Flag  football 
opening  delayed; 
starts  next  Monday 

Intramural  flag  football  will  start 
next  Monday,  Oct.  3  instead  of  today 
because  rosters  were  nol  turned  in  by 
deadline  and  a  limited  number  of  male 
teams  were  signed  up,  according  to  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  R.  Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  athletics. 

The  flag  football  will  email  a  few 
new  rules.  Some  of  these  arc:  a  Icam 
has  only  four  attempts  to  score  a 
touchdown  and  if  a  Icam  has  subslilu- 
tions  it  is  mandatory  they  enter  Ihe 
game  after  a  score,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli. 
She  said  Ihc  game  will  move  faster,  be 
more  exciting  and  be  safer. 

Divisions  will  exist  in  the  system 
such  as  male,  female,  and  co-cd  teams. 
Female  and  co-ed  teams  arc  welcome 
and  encouraged  to  sign-up,  Mrs. 
Frcmiolli  said. 

Rosters  must  be  turned  into  the  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities 
office  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym  by  noon,  to- 
day, said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli. 

Any  persons  needing  information 
on  intramural  sports  may  pick  il  up  in 
Ihe  intramural  and  College  activities  of- 
fice or  call  Ext.  269,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiol- 
li. She  added  that  rosters  are  available 
inside  the  office  and  must  also  be 
returned  there. 


College  golf  team  ups  record  to  4-0 


The  College  golf  learn  raised  its 
season  record  lo  4-0  with  a  l6'/2-l'/2 
win  over  Northampton  County  Com- 
munity College  last  Monday,  Sept.  19  at 
White  Deer  Golf  Course,  RD  I  Mon- 
tgomery, according  to  records  provided 
by  Harry  C.  Specht,  coordinator  of  in- 
tercollegiate athletics. 

Leading  Ihe  team  in  medal  play 
was  Joseph  E.  Simpson,  diesel 
mechanics  student  from  Duboislown.  A 
close  second  was  achieved  by  Daniel  J. 
McKean,  electrical  technology  student 


from  Shohola,  according  lo  Ihc  records. 
Using  NASSUA  scoring,  McKean 
beat  Craig  Anderson,  2-1;  Simpson  beat 
Brian  Lee,  3-0;  Brian  A.  McKcc, 
general  studies  student  from  Danville, 
beat  Jeff  Foreman,  lVi-Vi\  Michael  A. 
Spencer,  engineering  drafting  sludenl 
from  St.  Marys,  beat  Kevin  Harley,  3-0; 
Michael  E.  Fry,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  South  Williamsporl,  heal 
Mall  Williams,  3-0.  and  James  S. 
Allison,  civil  technology  student  from 
Arcndlsville,  beat  Jim  Barker,  3-0. 


Evening  hours  listed 
for  Bardo  Gym 

The  Bardo  Gym  will  be 
open  from  4  p.m.  until  closing, 
Monday  through  Thursday,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R. 
Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

Equipment  will  be  available 
10  all  students,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiol- 
li. 

Students  must  show  their  slu- 
denl ID  in  order  lo  be  admitted  lo 
the  gym,  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  said. 


Golf  team  wins  triangular  at  White  Deer  Golf  Course 


The  College  golf  team  won  a 
triangular  meet  againsl  Montgomery 
County  Community  College,  9 'A -8'/;, 
and  Penn  Slate  University,  Dubois  cam- 
pus, l4'/2-3'/',  on  Sept.  16,  according 
to  records  provided  by  Harry  C. 
SpechI,  coordinalor  of  intercollegiate 
athletics. 

The  meet  was  held  at  White  Deer 
Golf  Course,  RD  1  Montgomery. 

In  medal  play,  Daniel  J.  McKean, 


electrical  technology  sludenl  from 
Shohola,  shot  a  73  lo  lead  the  field. 
Joseph  E.  Simpson,  diesel  mechanics 
student  from  Duboislown,  was  second 
on  the  tcatn  wilh  a  75,  according  lo  Ihe 
records. 

Through  Ihe  NASSUA  scoring 
system  againsl  Montgomery  County 
Community  College,  McKean  beat  Nick 
SinnotI,  3-0;  Brian  A.  McKcc,  general 
studies  student  from  Danville,  lost  lo 


SciUI  Hamblen,  3-0;  Simpson  bcal  Carl 
Burns,  3-0;  Michael  A.  Spencer, 
engineering  drafting  student  froin  St. 
Marys,  lost  lo  Guy  Greco,  3-0;  James 
S.  AlfiSon,  civil  technology  student  from 
ArcndLsvillc,  lost  to  Al  Sciberlich, 
2'/;-l'/2,  and  Tom  L.  Murphy,  broad- 
casting student  from  Washinglon  Cross- 
ing, beat  Dave  Taylor,  3-0. 

In  NASSUA  scoring  against  Penn 
State     University,     Dubois     campus. 


McKean  bcal  Tim  Reed,  2-1;  McKcc 
beat  Dan  Bicmcl,  3-0;  Simpson  bcal 
Dave  Pelrozzi,  3-0;  Spencer  beat  Jim 
Smith,  3-0;  Allison  lost  to  Kevin  Shivc- 
ly,  IVi-Vi,  and  Murphy  beat  John 
Kruse,  3-0,  according  lo  Specht's  record 
sheets. 

With  the  win  over  Montgomery 
County  Community  College  and  Penn 
Slate  University,  Dubois  campus,  the 
College  golf  team  raised  its  season 
record  to  three  wins  and  no  losses. 


SPOTLIGHT    Monday.  Sfpl.  26.  1983? 


Harriers  Open  Season  With  Wins 


Beating  a  Community 
I  CoLLKCE  OF  Philadelphia 

RUNNER... 

Shawn  E.  Geinett 
strives  for  success 


Running  his  way 

TO  A  SECOND  PLACE  i 

finish  is  i 
Kevin  S.  Bvler 


The  College  harriers  opened  their 
season  wilh  a  Iriangular  meet  win  Sept. 
20  a!  White  Deer  Golf  Course  against 
Luzerne  County  Community  College 
and  the  Community  College  of 
Philadelphia,  according  to  Phillip  D. 
Landers,  cro.ss  country  coach. 

The  harriers  beat  Luzerne  County 
Community  College,  17-44  and  the 
Community  College  of  Philadelphia, 
22-36,  said  Landers. 


Spotlight  Photos  Bv 
Kathv    Foreman 


Story  by  Perry  D.  Pentz 


Scoring  in  cross  country  is  done  by 
adding  the  places  the  first  five  runners 
finish,  .said  Landers. 

The  team  was  led  lo  a  second,  third 
and  fourth  place  finish  by  Kevin  S. 
Byler,  construction  technology  student 
from  Slalington;  Shawn  E.  Gelnelt, 
general  studies  student  from  Walson- 
lown,  and  Warren  P.  Rcnninger, 
nursery  managcmeni  sludenl  from 
Williamsporl. 


Byler  covered  the  fivc-milc  course 
in  31  minutes  17  .seconds,  Gelncti, 
32:11,  and  Renninger,  32:22,  according 
10  records  provided  by  Landers. 

The  remainder  of  the  College  team, 
their  places  and  times  are  as  follows:' 
Marly  E.  Chilcote,  forestry  student 
from  Roberts  Dale,  and  Larry  T. 
Sarvey,  construction  technology  student 
from  Brockway,  tie  7lh,  33:41. 

Dave  A.  Titus,  general  studies  stu- 


dent from  Jersey  Shore,  lllh,  36:48; 
Edward  T.  Wills,  electrical  occupations 
sludenl  from  Curwensville,  13th,  37:52; 
Robin  C.  Wright,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Turbotville,  I9lh,  40:47,  and 
Kelvin  G.  Stubbs,  diesel  mechanics  stu- 
dent from  Brockway,  20th,  41:07,  ac- 
cording lo  the  record  book. 

The  learn  now  is  2-0  entering  the 
early  season. 


Phi  Beta  Lambda 

membership 

drive  underway 

College  long  range 

planning  unit  sets 

open  meeting 

tomorrow 


The  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PEL) 
membership  drive  now  is  under- 
way and  will  continue  until  Mon- 
day, Oct.  10,  according  to  Paul 
W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  professor 
of  business  and  club  adviser. 

All  business,  computer 
science,  and  other  studenls  taking 
a  business  coui;se  is  eligible  lo 

The  long  range  planning  subcom- 
mittee reviewing  College  philosophy  and 
mission  will  hold  an  open  meeting  from 
4  to  6  p.m.  tomorrow  in  Room  204  of 
Ihe  Academic  Center,  according  to  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle,  steering  commillee 
chairperson. 


join. 

PBL  is  a  national  business 
organization  and  the  largest  in  the 
country,  slated  Goldfeder. 

Students  are  encouraged  to 
pick  up  an  application  at  the  PBL 
office,  Room  333,  Academic 
Center,  and  participale  in  the 
many  upcoming  activities  planned 

The  main  purpose  of  this  meeting  is 
lo  provide  opportunity  for  reaction,  in- 
put, and  discussion  of  proposed 
statements  which  were  distributed  to 
College  staff  earlier  in  the  month. 

Chairing  the  subcommittee  is  Dr. 
Robert  G.  Bowers,  executive  assistant 
for  internal  affairs. 


for  this  semester. 

Also,  plans  are  being  com- 
pleted for  the  Eastern  Leadership 
Conference  which  will  be  held  Fri- 
day, Oct.  2L  Saturday  Oct.  22, 
and  Sunday,  Oct.  23  at  the 
Americana  Host,  Lancaster, 
Goldfeder  said. 

Committee  members  include  Dr. 
Grant  M.  Berry,  Jr.,  dean  of  resources 
anddevelopment;  William  H.  Debolt, 
division  director  of  communication, 
humanities  and  social  sciences  division; 
Victor  A.  Michael,  Sr.,  electronics  in- 
structor, and  James  B.  Shaw,  assistant 
professor  of  physics. 


OCSPOTLICHTDMondaj.  Sepl.  26.  1983 

Artists  Unlimited 
elects  officers 


An  elcclion  of  officers  was  held  Tina  M.  Cavalicrc,  of  New  Columbia, 

Sepl.  16  by  Arlisis  Unlimilcd,  according  vice     presidcnl;     Miss     Lloyd,     of 

10     Karen    J.     Lloyd,     ncwly-elcclcd  Philipsburg.  sccrclary,  and  Dcnise  K. 

secrclary.  Goldficri,  of  White  Deer,  treasurer. 

Newly  elected  officers  are   Ann  E.  All  students  are  enrolled   in   the 

Machuski.   of  Bloomsburg.   president;  advertising  art  program. 


Planned  events  for  the  dub  include 
a  trip  to  New  York  and  a  Christmas 
card  sale.  Miss  Lloyd  said. 

Meetings  arc  scheduled  either  the 
first  or  second  Friday  of  every  month, 
said  Miss  Lhwd. 


Sludcnls  arc  asked  to  help  pick  up 
litter  around  campus  and  make  it 
"more  physically  attractive",  according 
to  N^iss  Jill  R.  Hampton,  new 
spokesperson  for  the  Student  Govern- 
tncnt  Association  Transition  Commit- 
lec. 

The  Transition  Committee  is  trying 


SGA  Transition  Committee  begins 
anti-litter  effort;  asks  students  to  help 

to  clean  up  the  campus.    But  without  said  a  concert  committee  has  been  form- 

the  help  of  the  student  body  it  is  a  cd  and  any  student  interested  in  being 

useless  effort,  said  Miss  Hampton.  on    the   committee   may   contact    any 

Reporting  on  other  matters,  she  Transition  Commillee  member  in  the 


SGA  office.  Room  202,  Academic 
Center  or  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti  in 
the  College  activities  office  in  the  gym, 
she  said. 

Office  hours  for  the  SGA  office 
have  not  been  set  but  will  soon  be 
available  and  will  be  posted  on  the  door 
of  the  SGA  office.  Miss  Hampton  said. 


Transfer  Day  scheduled  to  be  held  in  LRC  on  Wednesday,  Oct.  19 


Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director 
of  counseling,  career  development  and 
placement,  has  announced  that  College 
transfer  day  will  be  held  Wednesday, 
Oct.  19,  from  1  p.m.  until  4:30  p.m.  in 
(he  hallway  of  the  Learning  Resources 
Center. 

"We  have  invited  approximately 
80  colleges  to  come  to  discuss  transfers, 
and  already  22  to  25  have  accepted," 
said  Emery. 


Any  students  inlcresled  in  transfer- 
.ring  to  a  four-year  institution  are  en- 
couraged to  attend  the  seminar  and 
speak  with  the  admission  representatives 
from  the  various  colleges  who  will  be  at 
(he  College,  he  said. 

Emery  also  said  he  is  encouraging 
members  of  the  facuhy  to  attend,  so 
they  may  belter  teach  (heir  students 
and/or  prepare  them  for  further  school- 
ing. 


The  placement  report  is  due  to  be 
published  the  middle  of  October.  The 
placemen!  report  is  a  survey  of  approx- 
imately!.500  August  or  December  1981 
and  May  1982  College  graduates  taken 
(0  inform  the  public  of  how  well  they 
have  been  able  to  get  a  job  in  the  field 
they  (rained  for.  Additional  follow-ups 
to  the  placement  report  will  focus  on 
transfer  students  and  specific  responses 
dealing     with     questions     related     to 


transferring. 

"The  grant  program  for  career  ser- 
vices for  the  handicapped  has  been 
renewed,"  said  Emery,  adding; 
"-which  means  that  Kathryn  A.  Fer- 
rence,  career  devclopmeni 
specialist/special  services  for  the  han- 
dicapped, can  remain  on  our  staff  as  a 
career  development  specialist." 

The  counseling  office  is  open  from 
8  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.  daily  with  evening 
appointments  available. 


College  Phi  Beta  lambda  represented  at  annual  workshop  held  in  Boalsburg 


The  ninth  annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  workshop  was  held  Sunday, 
Sepl.  25  at  South  Hills  Business  School, 
Boalsburg,  according  to  Paul  W. 
Goldfeder.  assistant  professor  of 
business. 

Reprcsentalives  from  20  chapters  of 


PBL  across  Pennsylvania  attended,  said 
Goldfeder. 

Regislralion  was  from  9  a.m.  to  10 
a.m.  followed  by  a  registrafion  con- 
tinental breakfast. 

Workshops  this  year  included  in- 
formation on  compu(ers,  stress,  and 


local  chapter  officers'  duties. 

A  buffet  style  lunch  was  served 
following  (he  workshops,  said 
Goldfeder. 

Following  lunch,  state  PBL  officers 
took  part  in  a  fashion  show.  The  theme 
was  "Dress  for  Success".  Clothing  was 
provided  by  shops  in  the  Stale  College 


area.    The  afternoon  concluded  with  a 

closing     business     session,     staled 
Goldfeder. 

Local  chapter  officers  including 
David  A.  Haas,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  PBL  president 
at  the  College,  attended  the  conference, 
said  Goldfeder. 


Table  Tennis  Club  to  meet  at  7  this  evening 

The  first  meeting  for  the  Table  Tennis  Club  will  be  at  7  p.m.,  today  on  the 
cast  fioor  of  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Donald  A.  Waltman,  electronics  in- 
structor.  The  gym  will  be  open  until  10  p.m.. 

Interested  students  are  welcome  and  may  call  Donald  A.  Waltman,  elec- 
tronics instructor,  at  ExI.  215  for  more  information,  Waltman  said. 

Don't  use  College  address 
for  personal  mail  asks  manager 

The  College  is  not  responsible  for 
the  delivery  of  student  mail,  according 
(0  Mrs.  Judy  L.  Demko,  manager  of 
duplicatitig  and  mail  services.  Students 
are  advised  not  to  give  the  College  as  a 
personal  mailing  address,  she  said. 


December  Graduates... 
Last  Day  to  Petition  to  Graduate 
Is  Friday,  Oct.  14,  1983 
Go  to  Records  Office 


The  Hfe  span  of  an  average  cat  is  11 


FOR  SALE 

8  fl..  7  In.  pickup  (ruck  camper 
wKh  4  f(.  cab  overhang.    Sleeps  4. 
Lights  powered  by  D.C.  or  120  voll 
current  or  L.P.  gas.     L.P..  3-burncr 
s(ove  with  oven.    Self  ciin(aiiicd  water 


The  first  numbering  of  houses  was 

lank  and  ample  sloragt.  Camper  jacks  introduced  on  The  PoinI,  No(re-Dame 

and  (ic  downs  included.    Exeellen(  for  Paris,  In  1463. 
family   camping  or   hunting... $450. 

' The  first  ship  to  pass  through  the 

■^^■^^^^^^■^^^■■■^^^  Panama  Canal  was  the  Alex  Lavalley 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  S(.,  Williamspnrl 
INtxl  to  Klunip  Academic  Center/ 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


AA  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers   you    can    own!       Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTjecord  Store 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs/ 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
81/2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701 1 


-^WORKING  WITH 
--Richard  W.  Rankinen, 
associate  prnfessiir  of 
foresi  technology 
(center)  explains  that  in 
bow  sawing,  the  in- 
dividual must  work  with, 
not  against,  his  partner. 
ISPOTUCHT  pholdl 


It's 

Community 

College 

Week 

...See  Below 


Auditorium 
rededication  Oct.  22 

...See  below 


Vol.  19.  No.  6     •     Monday.  Ocl.  3.  1983     *     8  Pages 
Willtamsptirl  Area  Communily  Cotlege     *     WillJamsporl.  Pa.  17701 

Community  College  Week 
to  be  noted  with  reception 
in  governor's  mansion 


This  week  has  been  designated 
"Community  College  Week". 

To  honor  the  20th  anniversary  of 
Pennsylvania's  communily  college 
system.  Gov.  and  Mrs.  Dick  Thorn- 
burgh  are  hosting  a  legislative  receplion 
tonight  In  the  governor's  mansion  in 
Harrisburg. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College 
president;  Dr.  Miles  Williams,  dean  of 
employee  and  public  relations,  and 
members  of  the  College  Board  of 
Trustees  will  attend  the  function. 

Dr.  Williams  staled  ihal  the  pur- 


pose of  the  meeting  is  twofold.  One  is 
to  celebrate  with  the  governor  the  an- 
niversary of  the  signing  of  Act  484  (The 
Community  College  Act)  on  Aug.  24, 
1963  by  then  governor  William  W. 
Scranlon. 

"Following  that,  we  are  going  to 
have  a  dinner  with  our  legislative 
delegation  -  which  is  our  way  of  show- 
ing our  appreciation  for  their  support  of 
the  College,"  said  Dean  Williams. 

While    the    past    is    reason    to 

celebrate.  College  officials  are  also  look- 

•  •  9Please  turn  to  Page  8 


Student  Parking   /       !]atc1 


Community  colleges  increasingly 
popular  with  high  school  grads 


Dala  pnivideil  by 
College  liifdrmatioii  Office 

According  to  dala  cimipiled  by  the 
Pennsylvania  C(mimissi<in  for  Com- 
munity Colleges,  the  accessibility  of  ad- 
vanced technology  training  of  the 
two-year,  communily  college  schools 
has  sigiiificanlly  increased  their 
popularity  with  all  age  groups,  in- 
cluding high  school  graduates,  seeking 
poslsccondary  cducalion. 

Al  one  campus,  the  barrage  of 
sludenls  trying  to  register  for  classes 
causes  an  overload  and  breakdown  of  a 
computer...  while  al  another  campus, 
I  he  president  wonders  aloud  wlicre  he's 
going  to  put  a  64  percent  increase  in  llic 


student  body. 

On  upswing  since  '71 

"The  popularity  of  Ihc  14  Penn- 
sylvania campu.scs  has  been  increasing 
since  1971,"  according  to  Dr.  Elwood 
A.  Shoemaker,  executive  director  of  Ihc 
conimissi(ni. 

"Advanced  technology  courses  and 
cuslomi/ed  training  programs  have 
made  the  c(mimuniiy  colleges  an  e\- 
Iremely  inviting  option  for  today's  high 
school  graduate  or  unemployed 
laborer,"  said  Shoemaker. 

"And   for   short-term   cducalion, 

our  campuses  have  Ihc  llcxibilily   to 

design  speciUcd  Iraining  as  dictated  by  a 

•  •  ^Please  turn  to  Pafif  8 


DIS-IS-DA-PLACE:  Enlarged  por- 
tion nf  campus  map  shows  location  of 
parking  lot  to  be  improved.  Slary. 
page  4. 

Identification 
card  needed 

Students  using  the  facilities  in  the 
Bardo  Gym  from  4  p.m.  to  10  p.m. 
must  show  their  identification  cards, 
said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities.    - 

Beginning  today  .students  must 
show  their  identification  cards  before 
gaining  entry  to  the  gym.  The  reason 
for  this  is  for  the  students'  protection  of 
their  personal  belongings. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  said  ihe  only  en- 
trance that  will  be  open  at  those  hours 
will  be  the  east  entrance. 


Tickets  available, 
with  College  ID,   ^ 
for  Ragtime  Revue 
and  rededication 

Tickets  for  the  rededication  of  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  and 
Riverboat  Ragtime  Revue  concert  at  8 
p.m.,  Saturday,  Oct.  22,  will  be 
available  to  College  employees  and 
students  starling  tomorrow. 

Tickets  will  be  available  in  two 
locations:  Office  of  Intramural 
Athletics  and  College  Activities,  first 
floor,  Bardo  Gym  and  College  Informa- 
tion Office,  on  the  second  floor  of  the 
Academic  Center. 

Students  and  staff  will  be  required 
to  show  College  ID  in  order  to  obtain 
tickets  and  will  be  limited  to  two  tickets 
per  person.  (Both  tickets  must  be  pick- 
ed up  at  the  same  time.)  Tickets  will  be 
distributed  on  a  first-come,  first-served 
basis.  Telephone  requests  for  tickets 
will  not  be  taken  and  tickets  will  not  be 
held  for  anyone. 

Those  who  obtain  tickets  and  later 
decide  not  to  attend  are  being  asked  to 
return  the  tickets  to  either  of  the  offices 
so  the  tickets  may  be  re-issued. 

Band  to  meet 

The  College  Band  will  meet 
tomorrow  from  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 
in  the  auditorium  of  the  Academic 
Center.  The  meeting  is  open  to 
anyone  interested  in  joining  the 
band,  according  to  James  B. 
Shaw,  assistant  professor  of 
physics  and  club  adviser. 


2aSPOTLIGHTbMoiidiy.  Ocl.  3.  I9IU 


Austin  performs  'Fantastic  Feets' 
to  benefit  local  charities 


What  does  one  man  expect  to  accomplish  by  pulling  a  30-lon  simulated  pad- 
dlewheel  boat  carrying  1 00  passengers  up  the  river  in  68-degree  water' 

Does  he  want  lo  break  a  world's  record?    Is  he  a  publicity  hound  that 
newspaper  people  so  often  despise'  Does  he  do  it  for  the  money? 

I  Suppose  he  does  il  for  the  simple  satisfaction 

...In  The  |  of  helping  charities  to  raise  money.      Thai's  ex- 

SPOTLIGHT's  I  actly  what  Ron  Austin  accomplished  when  he  pulled 

opinion  I  the  Hiawatha  up  the  Susquehanna  River  last  week- 

I  end. 

I  True,  he  seeks  publicity.     But  not  for  selfish 

reasons.  With  his  stunts  touted  as  "Fantastic  Feets"  by  himself  and  others, 
Austin  raises  money  to  benefit  local  charilies  -  the  American  Cancer  Society,  the 
American  Heart  Association,  ihe  Red  Cross,  the  March  of  Dimes  -  and  through 


his  feats,  he  gains  publicity  for  the  charilies 

Five-mile  runs  backwards  while  jumping  rope  is  one  of  his  stunts,  along  with 
a  7  6-mile  run  while  jumping  rope  and  an  80-mile  bike  hike...  and  a  1 40-mile  trek 
across  Death  Valley  is  in  the  planning  stages. 

The  charilies  not  only  receive  all  Ihe  money  raised  at  these  events,  but  also 
slate  and  national  press  coverage. 

"Dreams  Come  True",  a  newly-organized  charity  has  been  launched  to  help 
the  chronically-ill  recognize  and  fulfill  a  dream  they  have. 

This  past  August,  a  12-year-old  girl's  dream  came  true  when  she  saw  Ihe 
Beach  Boys  live  at  Bowman  Field  in  Williamsport.  But  she  died  Ihe  day  Austin 
was  pulling  the  Hiawatha  .   she  died  on  Ihe  birth  of  a  new  organization. 

Still,  with  participation  from  citizens  and  Ron  Austin,  charities  will  continue  to 
raise  money  to  make  dreams  come  true 


Third  Street  is  out  to  get  you! 


It's  out  to  get  you!  It  will  attack  you  when  you  drop  your  guard  or  turn  your 
back  and  you'll  never  know  what  hil  you.  No,  this  isn't  an  ad  about  a  new  horror 
movie  However,  il  could  be  horrible  il  given  the  opportunity  to  be;  it's  Ihe  unsafe 
crossing  at  the  College,  and  it's  out  lo  hurl  you. 

For  quite  some  time,  Ihe  problem  ol  sale  crossing  has  been  a  burden  lo 

pedeslhans,  and  unlike  Ihe  llu  or  Ihe  common  cold,  it  doesn't  go  away  in  a  couple 

...In  The  |  ol  days       II   continues   its   potentially   murderous 

SPOTLIGHT'S  I  escapades  for  as  long  as  students  cross  the  streets. 

°P'"I°"  I  Awareness  of  safe  crossing  is  belter  lately  as  a 

I  result  ol  Ihe  accident  involving  W  Loraine  Magargle 

(Ihe  gentleman  struck  by  a  car  on  Third  Street),  although  il  was  a  rather  costly 

reminder  ol  Ihe  danger  that  lurks    Unlorlunalely,  however,  no  mailer  how  many 


limes  you  look  lelt  and  right,  you  still  lake  your  life  inio  your  own  hands  when  you 
leave  Ihe  safely  ol  Ihe  curb 

For  years,  discussion  of  a  pedestrian  walkway  has  sporadically  come  up 
here  at  the  College,  but  Ihe  concept  was  linally  eradicated  lor  two  reasons:  Ihe 
projected  cost  and  the  inconvenience,  including  the  belief  that  students  would  not 
use  il  if  it  were  made  available  lo  them. 

The  salely  problem  is  something  for  students  lo  think  about;  is  it  belter  lo  be 
inconvenienced  by  having  lo  travel  a  walkway  -  or  lo  have  memorial  plaques  lin- 
ing Third  Street  in  remembrance  of  a  friend  killed  while  rushing  to  his  1 1  o'clock 
class'' 


Teen-sex  fad  dominates 
film  screen  marl<et 


Finding  a  movie  today  is  a  lull-lime  job  in  ilsell-when  il  comes  lo  selecling  a 
movie  without  Ihe  leen-sex  fad,  Ihal  dominates  Ihe  film  screen  market 

"Risky  Business",  for  instance,  with  lis  witty  script,  is  still  a  display  ol  all  Ihe 
teen-sex  themes  The  movie  is  about  high  school  boys  telling  each  other  sex 
;okes  and  wondering  when  their  lirsl  lime  will  be  -  and  what  il  will  be  like 

Wilh  Ihe  simple-minded  and  exploitive  conlenis  |         They're  looking 
ol  such  lilms.  there  is  promoted  a  distorted  view  |  for  fantasies 

ol  sex   Ihal  can't  help  but   promote  a  perverted  | 
view  with  Ihe  use  ol  this  medium  i 

Maybe  Ihe  lilm  industry  doing  these  kind  ol  | 


says  reviewer 
Robert  W.  Minier 


movies  always  had  on  their  minds  the  seeing  of  high  school  cheerleaders  wilh 
their  clothes  off  These  could  be  fantasies  they  once  had  and  used  to  lo  release 
their  sexual  Iruslrations. 

"Risky  Business"  wriler-director,  Paul  Brickman,  Irys  lo  pull  off  his  teen-sex 
satire  in  a  capitalistic  point  ol  view.  Joe  Goodsen,  who  pbrtrays  Tom  Cruse 
steals  prostitutes  who  are  not  willing  to  work  for  their  pimp  and  turns  his  home  in- 
to a  house  ol  proslitution  for  his  friends  so  he  can  overcome  various  problems 

From  the  many  teen-sex  movies  on  the  market  only  one  can  be  called  a  hit 
Thai's  right    It's  "Risky  Business".   On  a  scale  from  1 0  lo  1 00,  it  rates  a  miss 


'Mr.  Mom'  is  a  movie  for  all  ages     ^^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^or  your  money 


says  reviewer  Lori  L.  Holland 

The  movie,  "Mr  Mom",  is  an  absurd  comedy  about  a  family  man  portrayeo 
by  Michael  Kealon,  who  has  lost  his  job  and  lakes  over  in  his  wife's'fTeri  Garr) 
place  trying  to  manipulate  Ihe  household  duties  -  including  three  children  -  alter 
his  wile  wins  a  bel  and  slaits  a  new  job  in  a  large  firm 
"Mr  Mom  "  porlrays  a  real-lile  situation  in  a  very  amusing  way  Although  Ihe 
children  in  the  movie  are  young  (8.  5,  and  1),  they  occasionally  come  out  wilh 
mature  conveisalion  Seeing  a  live-year-old  boy,  after  just  getting  rid  of  his  old 
tattered  woobie",  say,  "May  I  have  a  lew  minutes  to  myself"  makes  the  movie 
appear  even  funnier  Therefore,  even  Ihe  serious  moments  are  not  really  serious 
and  provide  constant  chances  lor  laughing. 

As  you  watch  Ihe  movie,  you  visualize  some  ol  these  things  really  haopen- 
tna  You  can  ,ust  see  your  dad.  along  wilh  your  mother's  friends  play'ng  poker 
with  coupons.  "Mr.  Mom"  is  very  good  and  well  developed  in  conlext  l^s  a 
realistic  comedy  recommended  tor  people  ol  all  ages 


says  Rachel  P.  Levinson 

"Dressing  Rich"is  a  book  lor  today's  woman.  This  book  gives  the  readers 
details  ol  how  lo  gel  Ihe  most  for  their  money,  without  paying  a  lot 

The  book  instructs  women  on  how  lo  choose  the  right  colors  lor  the  right 
events  and  on  how  lo  took  their  best  II  also  gives  examples  on  how  lo  choose  a 
pattern  lor  those  who  are  tail  and  how  lo  choose  the  right  horizontal  lines  in 
material. 

There  is  a  chapter  on  accessories  and  how  to  wear  them  which  goes  into 
detail  on  items  such  as  shoes,  scarves,  and  hats.  "Dressing  Rich"  guides  the 
reader  on  how  lo  become  proud  of  what  is  in  the  closet  and  make  what  is  there 
look  impressive. 

This  hardbound  book  is  an  excellent  choice  for  Ihe  woman  ol  today.  This 
book  is  available  in  most  book  stores 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  ,s  published  each 
Mohday  morning  ol  Ihe  academic  yea,  bv 
loumalism  and  othe,  inle.esled  sludenls 
al  Ihe  Williamsporl  Area  Communilv  Col- 
lege^  1005  W  Third  SI.  Wiliiamsporl 
Ha   17701     Telephone  326-3761    Fki 

221  "r.iini 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  ol 
Ihe  studenl  newspaper,  ol  individual 
wnlers  or  ol  individuals  mlerviewed  and 
Iron""'  '^"'""  ""'  °'""'°"  °'  ""'  '"'""''■ 
Columbia  Scholaslic  Press  Associalion 


Mary  L.  Pease 

Managing  Edilor 
Annelte  M.  Engel 
Editorial  Page  Edilor 

Thomas  H.  Long 

Advertising  Direclor 

Perry  D.  Peniz 

Sports  Edilor 

Lorl  IM.  Lane 

Photography  Editor  (Days) 

Barbl  L.  Chllson 

Photography  Edilor  (Evenings) 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darl^room  Manager 


Denise  Y.  Enigk 

Senior  Staff  Writer 

Kay  M.  Frace 
Senror  Staff  Wrrler 
GIsela  D.  Grassley 
Senior  Staff  Writer 


STAFF:  Donna  M  Barnell,  Jo  A  Frilz 
Kalhryn  M  Gribert,  Shawn  W  Heveriy, 
Lori  L  Holland,  Rachel  P  Levinson! 
Kalhy  A  Meixel,  Robert  W  Minier! 
James  K  Morrissey,  Gary  A  Nichols! 
Joseph  P  Povleski.  Tracey  Wriletle, 
Richard  E  Kopp,  Marcy  Card,  Murray  j! 
Hanloid,  and  Kalhy  R  Foreman 
Anthony  N.  CIHo,  Faciilly  Adviser 

Production  Team  This  Issue:  Lorr  M  Lane,  pro- 
duclion  supervisor,  Thomas  H  Long,  videocom- 
posilion,  Thomas  F  Monlgomery,  copy  edilor. 
Donna  M  Barnell,  Jo  A  Fril2,  Qisela  D 
Grassley,  Richard  E  Kopp,  and  James  K  Mor- 
rissey, production  s 


Drollo-Crypto 


SPOTllGHTri  Monday.  Ocl.  3,  1983n3 


Here's  this  week's  droll  cryplomessage.  Clues:  The  message  has  to 
do  with  leaving  your  mark  on  history...  and....Z  stands  for  M,  while 
L  stands  for  0.   Have  fun! 

HLLPKIXFPY       LF       PCW       YBFNY 
LH        PXZW       BIW       FLP       ZBNW       VE 
PCW        KWIYLF       TCL       XY        BJTBEY 
YXPPXFM        NLTF 

Solution  to  last  week's  Drollo-Crypto 
Letting  your  fingers  do  the  walking 

is  okay  if  you  want  lo  always 
be  looking  at  the  world  upside  down. 

SiiliiiKin  10  llin  weeli  '<:  puzzle:  next  week. 


Lists,  Lists... 

Susan  M.  Eck, 

Advertising  Art  student 
froin  Williamsport 

Five  Most  Boring  Spnr(s  on  TV 

1.  All-S(ar  wrestling 

2.  Coif 

3.  Bowling 

4.  Billiards 

5.  Tennis 


ACROSS 
1  Walk 

S  Golfers  goal 
8  Frog  s  cousin 

12  Type  ol  coal 
or  shirl 

13  Exist 

14  Spanish  pot 

15  Sandarac 

16  Litlle  deuil 

17  Scorcti 

18  Leased 
20  Classify 

22  Near 

23  Heap 

24  Arctic 
swimmer 

27  Word  in  p.m 

31  Scottish  cap 

32  Showed 


33  Be  in  debt 

34  Spider  is  one 
36  Dillseed 


2  Ripped 

3  Verve 

4  Entrance 

5  Remunerated 

6  Limb 

7  fwlended 

8  Hurled 

9  Bread 
spread 

10  Winglike 

11  Arrow 

"and" 
21  Skidded 

23  Danger 

24  RR  depot 

25  Pitcher  part 

26  Wine  cup 

27  Operators 

28  Electrified 
particle 

29  Reverence 

30  Mesh  fabric 
32  Facial  leatun 


CROSS 
WORD 
PUZZLE 

Answer 
Next  Weel( 


35  Shrink  41  Intellect 

36  National  42  Landed 
hymn  43  Lease 

38  Gold  symbol  44  Norse  god 

39  Semester  45  Slim  as  a — 

40  Solo  48  fvteadow 


37  Iranian  com 

38  Article 

39  Domesticat- 

' 

2 

3 

' 

5 

6 

' 

1 

8 

9 

10 

" 

12 

14 

ing 

1t> 

" 

46  Emerald  isle 

1.|       ^W 

21 

^^^H'"     H 

23 

■  ^ 

49  Conceal 

50  Toll 

51  Old 

24 

26 

"!■" 

28 

29 

30 

Jt 

W 

.33 

Portuguese 

F 

H''°  1 

52  Great  Lake 

i^e: 

«r--^^ 

tured 

4U 

41 

I'm" 

43 

44 

45 

54  Rested  in  a 

46 

1 

tl 

48 

1 

49 

55  Repair 

bO 

51 

53 

!1j 

1  tvlast 

1 

College  LRP  team  to  present  'academy'  at  nationwide  convention 


Courtesy  College  Informalion  Office 

Three  adininistrators  of  the  College 
will  present  a  "Strategic  Long  Range 
Planning  Academy"  in  Phoenix,  Ariz., 
this  month.  The  academy  is  being  held 
in  conjunction  with  the  Association  of 
Community  College  Trustees  14th  An- 
nual Convention  being  held  in  Phoenix 
from  next  Wednesday  through  next 
Sunday,  Oct.  12  to  Oct.  16.  The 
"Strategic  Long  Range  Planning 
Academy"  is  being  held  from  2:30  p.m. 
to  4:30  p.m.,  Thursday,  Oct.  13  and 
from  9:15  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.  on  Friday, 
Oct.  14. 

The  academy  is  being  run  by  Dr. 
Robert  L.  Breuder,  president;  Rodney 
G.  Hurley,  dean  of  educational 
research,  planning  and  evaluation,  and 
Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  Planning  Commil- 
tee  chairperson. 

Dr.  Breuder  said  the  purpose  of  the 


Fairy  talc  for  grown-ups:  Any  do- 
it-yourself  description  with  the  word, 
ea.sy,  on  it. 


academy  is  to  teach  others  how  to 
design,  implement,  and  evaluate  the 
long  range  planning  process.  In  speak- 
ing of  the  importance  of  long  range 
planning.  Dr.  Breuder  said,  "To  be 
viable,  dynamic  and  in  control,  the 
community  college  needs  a  systematic 
approach  to  comprehending  itself  and 
its  environment.  The  present  must  be 
understood  in  all  facets  ir  order  to 
forecast  the  future  with  any  iccuracy. 
Strategic  Long  Range  Planning  provides 
the  mechanism  for  assessing  the  present 
and  forecasting  the  future  in  the  context 
of  institutional  knowledge,  environmen- 
tal awareness,  participant  involvement, 
and  future-oriented  leadership  that 
results  in  action  rather  than  reaction." 
The  academy,  as  presented  by  The 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College, 
is  designed  for  trustees,  chief  executive 

FOR  SALE:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire,  bar  only  used 
about  5  months;  complete  with  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKE  ME  AN 
OFFER!!   Call  Ext.  221,  ask  for  Tom. 


officers,  and  other  management  officials 
involved  or  interested  in  preparing  and 
budgeting  for  the  future  through 
Strategic  Long  Range  Planning. 

The  College  has  been  perfecting  its 
own  Strategic  Long  Range  Planning 
process  for  almost  two  years  now  as 
part  of  a  self-study  and  the  Middle 
States  Accreditation  process.  The  Col- 
lege's planning  document  has  been 
praised  by  Middle  States  personnel  and 


other  institutions  in  the  Middle  Stales 
area.  The  recognition  of  the  value  of 
the  College's  long  range  planning  docu- 
ment led  to  the  formal  invitation  to  Dr. 
Breuder,  Dr.  Doyle  and  Mr.  Hurley  to 
make  the  presentation. 

It  is  anticipated  that  approximately 
500  persons  will  be  attending  the  con- 
vention. They  will  be  representing  bet- 
ween 350  to  400  community  colleges  na- 
tionwide. 


Humpty  Dumpty 

sub  &  pizza  shops  welcomes...  WACC  students 
1 1 5°/o  off  any  food  purchases  I 

Southside 


W  Central  &  Market  Sts 


322-9569 


(Must  have  valid  WACC  ID) 


Creek  Side 
Lycom   Creek  Rd 
322-9030 


15  percent  off 


all  REGULAR  PRICE  merchandise 
with  this  coupon. 

h^^^^^HB  cijp  4  save  ^^^^^""^ 

Lee  Adidas 

Jeans  Lf'     ,  Sneakers  ^tonic 
Wrangler  Converse 

Chic  Puma 

WOOLRICH  brands  in  stock! 


.;• 


MIKES  PbACE 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Wllliomsport,  Ph.  322-1 1 1 2 1 


4dSP0TLIGHTI    MoFida),  Ocl.  i.  1983 

Younger  Scholars 
applications 
now  available 

Applications  for  Ihe  Younger 
Scholars  Program  arc  available  in  Ihe 
PlacemenI  Office,  Room  157,  Learning 
Resources  Ccnier,  according  lo 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  of 
counseling,  career  development  and 
placement. 

The  Younger  Scholars  Program 
gives  those  students  who  excel  in 
humanities  an  opportunity  to  perform 
an  independent  research  and  writing 
project  dilring  the  summer  months. 

The  program  requires  the  students 
to  complete  a  written  work  in  one  of  the 
following  areas:  interpretation  of 
cululural  works,  study  of  historical 
ideas,  figures  and  events  or  understan- 
ding the  disciplines  of  the  humanities. 
Application  requirements  for  this 
program  demand  thai  the  student  be  21 
years  of  age  or  under  and  a  U.S.  citizen 
or  a  foreign  national  who  has  lived  in 
Ihe  U.S.  for  at  least  three  consecutive 
years  at  the  time  of  application. 

The  deadline  for  applications  is 
Nov.  15. 

Computer  Science 
Club  elects 
Ronald  A.  Frye 

New  officers  have  been  elcclcd  for 
the  Computer  Science  Club,  according 
10  Charles  E.  Deilrick,  a  computer 
science  student  from  Jersey  Shore  and 
president  pro-teinpore. 

They  are  Ronald  A.  Frye,  Millon, 
president;  Cynthia  A.  Levchak,  Slarruc- 
ca,  vice  president;  Lori  A.  Mengcc, 
Wellsboro,  secretary,  and  Carol  A. 
Hill,  Muncy,  treasurer.  All  Ihe  above 
students  are  in  the  computer  science 
curriculum. 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  organizes; 
members  named  to  committees 


New  commillccs  have  been 
organized  for  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL), 
according  to  Dorcc  M.  Snyder,  a  com- 
puter science  student  from  Mon- 
loursville,  and  PBL  vice  president. 

Members  of  Ihe  fund  raising  com- 
miltee  are  Lisa  M.  Wilcox,  computer 
science  student  from  Canton,  chairper- 
son; Paul  H.  Pauling,  a  business  ad- 
ministration student  from  Montgomery; 
Cathy  L.  McKean,  a  business  science 
student  from  Jersey  Shore;  Janet  L. 
Bower,  a  business  administration  stu- 
dent from  Montoursville;  Jim  F.  Grib- 
bon,  a  business  management  sludenl 
from  Shamokin;  Tina  L.  Pousi,  a 
business  management  student  from 
Hughesville;     Anne    L.     Lehman,     a 

United  Way  drive 
to  begin  soon 

The  United  Way  is  .set  to  start  its 
campaign  the  week  of  Oct.  4,  according 
to  the  College's  campaign  coordinator, 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr. 

"We    are    atlempting    to    raise 
$6,500,  which  is  our  goal  this  year. 
We'll  be  contacting  team  leaders  as  to 
when  to  begin  collecting  pledges",  he 
said. 

Emery  said  that  lasl  year,  the  goal 
.set  was  never  reached,  but  90  percent  of 
the  Lycoming  County  people  con- 
tributed to  the  campaign,  recording  the 
highest  amount  of  money  ever  collected 

Jazz  quinlel  to  perform 
al  Bucknell  University 

The  Wynlon  Marsalis  Jazz  Quintet 
will  perform  at  Bucknell  University  on 
Wednesday.  The  quintet,  featuring  the 
award-winning  trumpeter,  Wynlon 
Marsalis,  will  appear  for  one  perfor- 
mance at  8  p.m.  in  Rooke  Chapel. 


\A  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers   you   can   own!      Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
.MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


business  administration  sludenl  from 
Jersey  Shore;  Diana  C.  Miller,  a 
bu.siness  science  student  from  Ralston; 
David  A.  Haas,  a  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Jersey  Shore. 

Public  Relations  Committee: 
Crystal  A.  Hoffman,  a  computer 
science  student  from  Elysburg,  chairper- 
son; Michael  C.  Losicwicz,  a  retail 
management  student  from  Shamokin, 
co-chairperson;  Susan  A.  Burkharl,  a 
computer  science  sludenl  from 
Hughesville;  Elizabeth  A.  Zerby,  a 
business  management  student  from 
Avis;  Sheryl  M.  Wilkins,  a  business 
managemeni  sludenl  from 
Lawrenceville;  Myra  A.  Sindlinger,  a 
business  management  sludenl  from 
Liberty;  Jan  M.  Reed,  a  computer 
science  student  from  Danville;  LeAnn  /7CC/c//7«/  Hirontnr 
Livermore,  a  word  processing  sludenl     "'J'^*'''"'"    UUtLlUf 


TEACHING  STUDVING  SKILLS  lo 
Carl  S.  Downs  III  (scaled)  is  Larry  M. 
Richardsnn,  inslruclional 

speci^alisl/a.ssislanl       direct  or. 

Larry  Richardson 
appointed 


processing 
from  Trout  Run,  and  David  A.  Haas,  a 
computer  science  sludenl  from  Jersey 
Shore. 

Special  Events  Committee:  Doree 
M.  Snyder,  a  computer  science  student 
from  Montoursville,  chairperson;  Kathy 
L.  Paul,  a  business  science  sludenl  from 
Westfield,  co-chairperson;  Roger  S. 
Graden,  a  computer  science  student 
from  Williamsport;  Fred  J.  Neidig,  a 


Larry  M.  Richard.son  has  been 
hired  under  ACT  101,  as  instructional 
specialist/assistant  director  in  the  Col- 
lege's developmental  studies  section. 

Richardson,  who  is  from 
Williamsport,  holds  a  degree  in 
psychology  from  Lafayette  College  and 
a  master's  degree  in  reading  from 
Mansfield  University. 

Richardson  will  be  working  with 
business  administration  student  from  sludenls  in  Ihe  developmental  studies 
Williamsport;  Jon  M.  Miller,  a  com-     program  who  need  help  with  reading 


puler  science  student  from 
Williamsport;  Robert  J.  Martin,  a  com- 
puter science  student  from 
Williamsport;  David  A.  Haas,  a  com- 
puter science  sludenl  from  Jersey  Shore; 
Lisa  M.  Wilcox,  a  computer  science  slu- 
denl from  Canton,  and  John  D.  Boyce, 
a  computer  science  sludenl  from  Roar- 
ing Branch. 


and  sludying  skills.  He  is  available  in 
Ihe  luloring  center  fioni  8  a.m.  unlil 
4:30  p.m.  He  said  he  asks  that  sludenls 
come  in  and  set  up  appointmenis  with 
him. 

Among  Richard.son's  credentials 
are  luloring  al  Mansfield  University, 
and  teaching  a  reading  course  al 
Williamsport  Area  High  School 

Hospital  to  conduct  child 
identification  sessions  this  month 

hospital  will  fingerprini  children  and 
galher  pertincnl  data  on  special  cards 
which,  upon  completion,  will  become 
the  exclusive  property  of  the  parenls. 
The  hospital  will  not  retain  a  copy 
of  the  card,  nor  will  any  other  agency. 
In  the  case  of  a  missing  child,  Ihe 
card  should  be  turned  over  to  ap- 
propriate authorilies  by  parenls  only 
upon  request. 

At  least  one  parent  is  asked  to  ac- 
company the  child  or  children  lo  the 
free  program  which  is  expected  to  lake  a 
minimum  amount  of  lime  and  which 
will  conclude  with  punch  and  cookies 
for  youngsters. 


The  Pediatrics  and  Safety  and 
Security  Departments  of  The 
Williamsport  Hospital  will  conduct  a 
scries  of  three  identification  sessions  this 
month  in  a  community  effort  lo 
safeguard  children  from  toddlers  age  lo 
age  18. 

Remaining  sessions  will  be  on 
Saturday,  Ocl.  15  and  Saturday,  Ocl. 
29,  from  10  a.m.  lo  2  p.m.  During  Ihe 
sessions,  fingerprinting  and  data  gather- 
ing will  be  done  in  the  hospital's 
Medical  Hall,  Louisa  and  Campbell 
Streets. 

Personnel  from  Ihe  Pediatrics 
Department  and  other  employees  of  the 


PHONE:   323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701 1 


lECEMBbR  GRADUATES 

Friday,  Oct.  14  -  Next  Friday 

Is  the  last  day  to  complete  a 

Petition  to  Graduate  form. 

Go  to  Student  Records  Window 

Academic  Center 


Forestry  students  demonstrate 
woodsmen  skills  for  Boy  Scouts 


The    College's    foresi    lechnology 
sludeiils,  under  ihe  direclion  of  Richard 


"Selling    up   skill   slalions" 


W.   Rankinen,   associate   professor  of    forcsl  lechnology  sludenls  laughl  and 


foresi  lechnology,  dcmonslraled 
woiidsmcn  complclilimi  skills  lo  area  a 
Boy  Scouts  at  a  Boy  Scout  Camporcc  in 
Ravensburg  Slate  Park  Saturday,  Sept. 
24. 


"drilled"    the    Scouls    in    the   proper 
handling  of  equipment. 

"This  is  an  excellent  example  of 
what     a     valuable     resource     ihc 


The  camporee  was  held  lo  leach  the    Williamsporl  Area  Community  College 


Scouls  forestry  skills,  according  to  Den 
nis  H.  St.  Jean,  assistant  Scout  ex 
ecutive,  Susquehanna  Council  Inc. 

In  all,  1 1  of  Lycoming  County's  27 
Boy  Seoul  troops  participated  with  a 
total  of  151  Scouts,  s.iid  St    lean 


IS  to  our  community,"  said  St.  Jean 

St.  Jean  went  on  to  say  that  the 
College's  forestry  students  were  patient 
and  "exhibited  a  high  degree  of  profes- 
sionahsni  " 


PICTURKI)  ABOVK  are  all  Ihe  foresi  Icchniiliigy  sludenls  who  parliclpated  in 
Ihe  Boy  Seoul  Camporee,  in  Ravensburg  Stale  Park.  Pictured  in  firsi  row  from 
left  lo  right  are:  Jim  A.  Chapman,  from  Williamsporl;  Russ  L.  Lucas,  Sigle; 
Tom  J.  Smink,  Hatfield;  Jimbob  A.  Welfley,  Slate  College;  David  J.  Meyer,  Pill- 
sburg.  Second  row;  John  "Bugs"  Mraz,  ^orlhhanll(ln;  Judy  Heimer,  Summit 
Hill;  Carl  "Bubba"  Vasiliou,  Summit  Hill;  Sean  M.  Williamson;  Julie  A.  OhI, 
Woolrich;  Sieve  T.  Chappie,  Summerset  and  Richard  W.  Rankinen,  assnciale 
professor,  foresi  technology. 


ACHIKVING  THK  MOST  LRVERAGE  is  stressed  in  log  rolling.  Here  Tom  J. 
Smink  (with  arm  in  air)  and  Carl  "Bubba"  Vasiliou  (lower  right),  demonslrale 
proper  use  of  a  pevee. 

23  colleges  to  be  represented 
at  Oct.  19  Transfer  Day  here 


Twenty-three  colleges  have  ac- 
cepted invitations  tp  the  College's 
Transfer  Day,  which  will  be  held  from 
1:30  p.m.  until  4:30  p.m.,  Wednesday, 
Wednesday,  Oct.  19,  in  the  hallway  of 
the  Learning  Resources  Center. 

A  few  of  the  larger  universities  and 
colleges  that  will  send  admission 
representatives  are  Delaware  Valley  Col- 
lege,    Marywood     College,     Lehigh 


University,  King's  College,  University 
of  Scranton,  Wilkes  College,  Lycoming 
College,  Temple  University,  Penn- 
sylvania Stale  University,  Clarion 
University,  Shippensburg  University, 
Millersville  University,  Lock  Haven 
University,  Slippery  Rock  University 
and  Bloomsburg  University,  among 
others,  according  to  Lawrence  W. 
Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling, 
career  development  and  placement. 


Changes  are  noted  at  LRC 

Several  changes  have  taken  place  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center  over  the 

recently,  according  to  Dr.  Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of  inslrucllonal 
resources. 

A  glass  partition  has  been  installed  between  the  library  and  the  developmental 
learning  labs,  eliminating  traffic  between  the  two  departments. 

The  video  playback  units  and  the  photo  copy  machine  have  been  moved  from 
beside  the  circulation  desk  lo  the  area  right  of  Ihe  library  entrance.  Dr.  Cunning 
also  said  that  Ihe  College  will  receive  a  new  photo  copy  machine  sometime  in  the 
near  future. 

Two  new  reference  librarians  have  also  been  hired  and  are  presently  working  in 
the  LRC.  They  are  Marilyn  Bownar,  who  works  Monday  and  Thursday  night,  as 
well  as  at  Mansfield  University,  and  Kate  Mickey,  who  works  al^the  main  campus 
library  and  who  also  works  at  the  North  Campus. 

Dr.  Cunning  also  added  that  College  catalogs  formerly  in  Ihe  counseling  office 
are  now  available  in  the  library  for  student  use. 


Carmella:  Happy  Columbus  Day! 


DEMONSTRATING  WINNING  FORM  are  Ihese  boy  scouls  from  Lycoming 
County,  at  Ihe  Ravensburg  Stale  Park  Camporee. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  to  go  to  trade  show 


Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  is  planning  lo 
attend  Gutenberg  International  on  Oct. 
20.  This  event  is  a  trade  show  in 
Washington  D.C. 

The  last  date  to  register  for  Ihe  trip 
is  Friday,  Oct.  7.  Any  graphic  arts  or 
printing  students  interested  in  attending, 


should  contact  GET  president,  Anthony 
Gobrecht  of  Hanover,  or  Ihe  treasurer, 
Charles  Earle,  of  Troy. 

Two  buses  will  be  used  for  the 
outing.  Seats  are  available  on  a  first 
come,  first  serve  basis.  Cost  for  non- 
fraternity  members  is  $16. 


Co-op  gets  name,  location  change 

The  Cooperative  Education  Office  has  a  new  title  -  Office  of  Experienlal  Lear- 
ning. The  office's  new  location  is  Room  157  of  the  Counseling,  Career  Develop- 
ment and  Placement  Center,  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center. 

This  program  provides  academic  training  with  supervised  work  experience.  At 
present,  there  are  about  80  lo  100  students  in  the  training  program.  The  food  ser- 
vice programs  have  Ihe  highest  number  of  students  training.  The  amount  of  $1  Vi 
million  has  been  earned  by  1,600  sludenls  in  the  program. 

After  being  in  the  Experienlal  Learning  Program  it  is  easier  to  seek  employ- 
ment stated,  William  C.  Bradshaw,  director  of  experienlal  learning.  There  are  10 
counties  in  the  surrounding  area  involved  in  this  training  program. 

Bradshaw  also  stated,  there  are  job  openings  in  Ihe  building  trades  and 
automotive  field.    Persons  interested  can  contact  him  or  their  division  director. 


6DSPOTLICHTi:)Monday,  Ocl.  i.  I98J 

Golf  team  wins 
on  the  road 

The  College  golf  icam  won  a 
Iriangular  mecl  against  Luzerne  Counly 
Communlly  College,  18-0,  and  Bucks 
County  Community  College,  16-2,  ac- 
cording to  records  provided  by  Harry 
C,  SpechI,  coordinator  of  intercollegiate 
athletics. 

In  medal  play,  Brian  A.  McKee, 
general  studies  student  from  Danville, 
led  the  field  by  shooting  a  76.  Shooting 
second  on  the  team  were  both  Daniel  J. 
McKean,  electrical  technology  studeni 
from  Shohola  and  Michael  A.  Spencer, 
engineering  drafting  student  from  St. 
Marys  with  a  78. 

Using  the  nassua  scoring  system 
against  Bucks  County  Community  Col- 
lege, McKean  beat  Ken  Stear,  IVi-Vi; 
Jcscph  E.  Simp.son,  diesel  mechanics 
student  from  DuBoistown  tied  Dave 
Umani,  l'/2-l'/2;  McKee  beat  Scott 
Hendry,  3-0;  Spencer  beat  Bob  Wan- 
nanacher,  .VO;  James  S.  Allison,  civil 
technology  student  from  Arendtsvillc 
beat  John  Castle,  3-0,  and  Tom  L. 
Murphy,  broadcasting  studeni  from 
Washington  Crossing  won  a  3-0  forfeit 
decision. 

Through  the  same  scoring  system 
against  Luzerne  County  Community 
College,  Spencer  beat  Fran  Barlick,  3-0; 
Allison  beat  Deb  Gurnari,  3-0; 
McKean,  Simpson,  McKee,  and  Mur- 
phy all  won  via  forfeit  decisions, 3-0. 

With  the  win  over  Luzerne  County 
Community  College  and  Bucks  County 
Community  College,  the  golf  team  rais- 
ed its  season  record  lo  seven  wins  and 
no  losses. 

Harriers  lose 
against  Bucks 

The  College  Harriers  lost  lo  Bucks 
County  Community  College,  17-41,  last 
Tuesday,  Sept.  26  at  Bucks  County 
Community  College,  Newtown,  accor- 
ding to  records  provided  by  Harry  C. 
Specht,  coordinator  of  intercollegiate 
athletics. 

The  College  was  led  in  a  losing 
cause  by  Shawn  E.  Gelnetl,  general 
studies  student  from  Watsontown  with  a 
30  minute  fourth  place  finish.  Finishing 
seventh  was  Warren  P.  Renninger, 
nursery  management  student  from 
Williamsport,  in  a  time  of  31  minutes, 
17  seconds. 

The  remainder  of  the  College  team, 
their  places  and  times  are  as  follows: 
Martin  E.  Chicole,  forestry  student 
from  Roberts  Dale,  9th,  32:10;  Dave  A. 
Titus,  general  studies  student  from 
Jersey  Shore,  lOth,  33:19;  Larry  T. 
Sarvey,  construction  technology  student 
from  Brockway,  lllh,  34:19. 

Kevin  S.  Byler,  construction 
technology  student  from  Slatington, 
12th,  34:20;  Robin  C.  Wright,  com- 
puter science  studeni  from  Turbolville, 
13th,  37:48;  and  Kelvin  G.  Slubbs, 
diesel  mechanics  studeni  from 
Brockway,  15lh,  38:48. 

The  harriers  now  arc  2-1  I  his 
season. 


PRACTICIING  ARCHERV  skills  during  physical 
education  class  is  Mark  L.  Kauffman,  a  machine 


loni  technology  student  from  South  Williamsporl. 

/SPOTLIGHT  p/iiilo  by  Loh  M.  Lane/ 


Intramural  soccer  to  begin  today  28  registered 

for  IM  bowling 


Intramural  soccer  will  begin  at  4 
p.m.,  today  on  the  field  behind  the  Ad- 
mini.stralion  Building,  according  lo 
Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremioiti,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

In  case  of  rain,  intramural  soccer 
will  meet  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  said  Mrs. 
Fremioiti.  She  added  student  identifica- 
tion is  required  to  get  in  the  gym.  If  the 
meeting  is  in  the  gym,  open  gym  will  be 
cancelled  from  4  p.m.  to  6  p.m.,  Mrs. 
Fremioiti  said. 

Two  full  teams  and  one  partial 
team  had  signed  up  by  mid-week  last 


week  and  there  are  openings  for  more 
people,  said  Mrs.  Fremioiti. 

Rules  will  be  standard  American 
Youth  Soccer  Organization  (AYSO) 
rules.  The  intramural  soccer  will  be  a 
"learning  experience  while  they  are 
playing,"  said  Mrs.  Fremioiti.  "They 
will  be  gaining  technique,"  added  Mrs. 
Fremioiti. 

Intramural  soccer  will  be  for  "fun 
and  recreation,"  Mrs.  Fremiotii  said. 

The  instructor  for  the  soccer  pro- 
gram will  be  Christopher  Radke, 
associate  professor  of  drafting. 


Golf  team  beats  Dubois  Campus 
of  Perm  State  University 

The  College  golf  team  raised  its  season  record  lo  5-0  with  a  18-0  win  over  Penn 
Stale  University  (PSU),  Dubois  Campus  Thursday,  Sept.  22  at  PSU  Dubois  Cam- 
pus, according  to  Harry  C.  SpechI,  coordinator  of  intercollegiate  athletics. 

In  medal  play.  Brain  A.  McKee,  a  general  studies  student  from  Danville,  led 
the  College  by  shooting  a  82.  Michael  A.  Spencer,  engineering  drafting  student 
from  St.  Marys  was  second  with  a  88,  said  Specht. 

In  Nassua  scoring,  Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical  technology  student  from 
Shohola  beat  Tim  Reed;  Joseph  E.  Simpson,  diesel  mechanics  student  from 
DuBoistown  beat  Dan  Biemel;  McKee  beat  Nort  Scherer;  Spencer  beat  Dave 
Pelruzzi;  James  S.  Allison,  civil  technology  student  from  Arendtsvillc  beat  Kevin 
Shively,  and  Michael  E.  Fry,  computer  science  student  from  South  Williamsport 
beat  Jim  Smith.   All  the  scores  for  the  team  were  3-0,  SpechI  said. 

Nassua  scoring  is  a  slang  term  used  when  scoring  a  certain  game  of  golf. 
Nassua  scoring  is  based  on  three  points.  One  point  if  the  golfer  wins  the  first  nine 
holes  and  another  point  if  the  golfer  wins  the  last  nine  holes.  The  last  point  is 
awarded  to  the  golfer  who  wins  the  overall  match. 


Gobble...  gobble...  gobble... 

Gobble... gobble...  gobble 


It's  A  Bake  Sale! 
By  Artists  Unlimited 


Today  /  Academic  Center  Lobby 


♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


Twenty-eight  persons  have 
registered  for  the  intramural  bowling  at 
ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave., 
said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotii,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

There  is  "room  for  more  teams," 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  next  match  will  be  held  at  4 
p.m.  tomorrow,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Any  students  interested  in  joining 
may  do  so  at  the  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities  office  in  the  Bardo 
Gym  or  at  ABC  Bowling  Lanes  on 
Tuesday  afternoons. 

Flag  football 
'must'  meeting 
to  be  tomorrow 

A  meeting  for  flag  football  will  be 
held  at  4  p.m.,  tomorrow  on  the  field 
behind  the  Administration  Building, 
said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

The  meeting  is  a  "must",  said 
Mrs.  Fremiotti.  "In  case  of  rain,  the 
meeting  will  be  in  the  Bardo  Gym  ~  and 
be  sure  lo  have  student  identification  to 
get  in  the  gym,"   said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

During  the  meeting,  rules  will  be 
explained  and  schedules  will  be  given 
out. 

Equipment  will  be  made  available 
for  teams  to  practice,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

Games  tentatively  will  start  at  4 
p.m.  and  6  p.m.,  this  Wednesday  and 
Thursday,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  said  she  needs  input 
on  the  starting  limes  for  games. 

The  double  elimination  lournameni 
has  14  teams  participating. 


A  slory  ballcry  dues  noi  siorc  elcc- 
incMy,  bul  clicrnicals  which  can  crcalc 
cicciriciiv. 


Counseling  Center  to  hold 
open  house  this  Friday 


The  Counseling,  Career  Develop- 
menl  and  PlacemenI  Center  will  hold  an 
open  house  from  2  p.m.  unlil  4  p.m., 
Ihis  Friday,  in  Room  157,  Learning 
Resources  Center,  according  lo 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  of  the 
Counseling,  Career  Development,  and 
PlacemenI  office. 

Examples  of  career  information 
and  the  Computer  Guidance  System 


will  be  available.    Emery  and  members' 
of  the  staff  will  be  present. 

A  videotape  that  features  staff  and 
students  in  the  Youth  Employment 
Training  Program  (YETP)  will  also  be 
available.  The  tape,  which  was  produc- 
ed and  directed  by  G.  Robert  Converse, 
coordinator  of  YETP,  is  an  explanatory 
presentation  that  shows  the  work  of  the 
YETP  Ihis  past  summer. 


Two  College  staff  members  work 
with  Vreen  Thumb  Program' 


The  Pennsylvania  Farmers'  Na- 
tional Union  provides  gainful  employ- 
ment for  persons  55  years  of  age  and 
over  through  the  Green  Thumb  pro- 
gram. The  College  currently  has  two 
people  working  under  ihis  program. 

One  is  Ms.  Mary  Corter,  who  is  a 
career  development  receptionist.  The 
other  is  Roberta  Smith,  in  duplicating 
and  mail  services. 

Ms.  Corter,  who  is  from 
Williamsport,  has  been  working  in  the 


Counseling,  Career  Development  and 
Placement  Center  for  three  years.  She 
says  she  enjoys  her  work  here  at  the 
College  and  likes  the  people  she  works 
with. 

Roberta  Smith  from  Williamsport 
began  work  under  the  Green  Thumb 
program  on  Aug.  15  in  duplicating  and 
mail  services  at  the  College. 

Those  working  under  this  program 
can  easily  be  identified  by  the  roupd. 
Green  Thumb  buttons  that  they  wear 
during  working  hours. 


Film  to  be  available  at  bookstore  soon 


Camera  film  will  soon  be  available 
in  the  College  Bookstore,  according  lo 
Ms.  Eleonore  Holcomb,  Bookstore 
supervisor. 

All  sizes  of  Kodak  and  Fuji  film, 
both  color  and  black  and  white,  plus 
various  flash  cubes  and  flash  bars  as 
well  as  48-hour  processing  and  develop- 
ing will  be  available  by  mid-October. 

"We  won't  be  selling  any  cameras 
or  camera  accessories.  There  are  so 
many  different  things  there  that  you  can 
get  involved  with. ..and  it  also  runs  into 


a  lot  of  money,"  Ms.  Holcomb  said. 

The  Bookstore's  hours  now  are  8 
a.m.  until  4:30  p.m.,  Monday  through 
Friday. 

Books  should  be  picked  up 

The  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  book 
sale  Is  over.  Books  may  be  picked  up 
anytime  in  Room  333,  of  the  Academic 
Center.  Checks  will  also  be  available, 
according  lo  Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assis- 
tant professor  of  business  and  PBL 
club  adviser. 


Admission  recruiter's  October  schedule 
of  visitations  detailed 

The  October  schedule  of  Miss  Mary  Sinibaldi,  admissions  recruiter,  and  Den- 
nis L.  Dunkleberger,  assistant  director  of  admissions,  have  been  detailed.    Addi- 
tional information  about  the  planned  visitations  may  be  obtained  from  her.  Miss 
Sinibaldi  said. 
The  schedule: 
IQuesliims  about  the  schedule  should  be  directed  to  Admissions! 
Oc(ober  RecruUer  Assl.  Direclor 

10-3  (0  10-7  Indiana,  Armslrong,  Clinlon,  JuniaCa, 

and  Erie  Coundes  and  Tioga  Counties 


10-10  lo  10-14 


10-24  lo  10-28 


10-31  lo  11-4 


Schuyiltill,  Clearfield,  Adams,  York, 

Union,  Snyder         Monlgomery,  Cumberland 


Hunlingdun,  Franklin, 
Fullon 


Snyder,  Tioga,  Lehigh, 
Norlhamplon 

Lackawanna,  Lancaster, 

Crawford,  Jefferson, 

Mercer,  Venago, 

Clirion 


Cambria,  Tioga, 

Lycoming,  Sullivan, 

Wyoming 

Monroe,  Berks, 
Philadelphia 

Snyder, 

Northumberland, 

Cumberland 


PBL  to  hold 
meeting  today 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  hold  a 
special  events  committee  meeting  for  all 
members  at  3  p.m.,  today,  in  Room  333 
of  the  Academic  Center,  according  to 
Dorcc  M.  Snyder,  a  computer  science 
student  from  Montoursville  and 
chairperson  of  the  committee. 

All  PBL  members  who  would  like 
to  help  in  the  preparation  of  a  float  for 
the  Mummers'  Day  Parade  should  at- 
tend, said  Snyder.  Work  on  the  float 
will  begin  tomorrow  or  Wednesday. 

SME  members  tour 
nuclear  plant 

Students  who  major  in  engineering 
drafting,  tool  design,  tool  making,  and 
general  machinist  make  up  the 
Mechanical  Engineering  Organization. 
The  members  are  affiliated  with  the 
Society  of  Manufacturing  Engineers 
(SME).  This  organization  plans  pro- 
grams for  its  members  at '  different 
businesses  and  plants  that  tie  in  with 
what  the  students  plan  lo  do  in  their 
future  business  lives. 

SME  .recently  toured  the  Sus- 
quehanna Nuclear  Power  Plant,  at  Ber- 
wick, Pa.  "Our  students  learned  a  lot 
about  the  professions  they  are  getting 
into  when  they  visited  the  plant," 
remarked  Chalmer  C.  VanHorn, 
associate  professor  in  drafting  and  SME 
adviser. 

According  lo  VanHorn,  90  percent 
of  his  students  find  jobs  upon  comple- 
tion of  their  education  at  the  College. 
Only  about  25  percent  find  jobs  in  near- 
by areas,  most  of  the  students  who  get 
jobs  are  working  on  the  East  Coast, 
Van  Horn  said. 


SPOTUCHTDMondiy,  Ocl.  i.  I983d7 

Program  successful 
in  job  placement 

The  College's  air  conditioning  and 
refrigeration  students  are  enrolled  in  a 
program  Ihal  is  very  successful  in  job 
placement  for  its  students,  according  lo 
Frank  P.  Leach,  instructor  of  air  condi- 
tioning and  refrigeration. 

"The  job  placement  for  students 
graduating  in  air  conditioning  and 
refrigeration  here  at  the  College  has 
been  100  percent,"  said  Leach,  adding 
that  the  program  is  "only  three  years 
old  and  growing". 

The  students  are  required  lo  con- 
tact a  business  where  they  can  complete 
an  80-hour  internship.  This  training  is 
very  helpful  lo  Ihe  students  because  it 
gives  them  some  on-the-job  training  in 
their  field,  he  said. 

The  students  in  this  program  have 
completed  work  on  some  areas  of  the 
College's  main  campus.  They  have 
worked  on  the  air  conditioning  in  the 
offices  of  the  Academic  Center  and  in 
the  president's  office. 

Coin-operated  copy 
machine  available 
in  Library 

A  coin-operated  copier  is  available 
in  the  Library,  Learning  Resources 
Center,  first  door,  for  use  by  students, 
according  to  Mrs.  Judy  L.  Demko, 
manager  of  duplicating  and  mail  ser- 
vices. 

The  charge  is  10  cents  per  copy. 

Students  needing  more  than  10 
copies  should  contact  duplicating  and 
mail  services.  Room  103,  Administra- 
tion Building.  Duplicating  and  mail 
services  will  make  the  copies  on  a  lime- 
available  basis  lo  be  paid  for  when  pick- 
ed up. 


Like  to  play  baskelball? 

Watch  this  space 


iiiinniuniiiiiHtiiimniuiiHiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiniimiiuiiiiinimiiiiiiiiiiitiniiiuiiiK 


WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  joined  forces 
to  give  you  a  chance  to  win  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS-so  listen  to  WWAS  Monday 
thru  Friday.    To  win,  all  you  have  to  do  is  call: 

326-1408 


JUSPOTLIGHT    Monday.  Ocl.  S.  198.) 


Community  College  Week  noted 


9^9Cortfmueft/rom  Pane  I 

ing  ahead  lo  the  fulurc  prospccis  of  ihc 
College  and  Ihe  communiiies  suppnrling 
it. 

Proclamalinns  presenled 

In  Iwo  scparalc  ceremonies.  Dr. 
Brcuder  ha.s  been  presenled  wilh  pro- 
clainalions  signed  by  ihe  Lycoming 
Counly  commissioners  and  by  Ihe 
Williamsporl  Cily  Council.  The  pro- 
clamalion  lo  commemoralc  Ihc  20lh  an- 
niversary of  Ihe  slale's  eslablishmeni  of 
Ihe  communily  college  syslcm  was  given 
in  recognilion  of  the  College's  conlribu- 
lions  lo  Ihe  economic  rcvilali/aiion  nl 


Ihe  communily  and  counly. 

l,asl  Tuesday,  I  lie  Scnale  f-duca- 
lion  Commission  approved  House  Bill 
177.  Mosi  approprialely,  according  lo 
College  officials,  il  will  come  before  Ihe 
Approprialions  Commission  loday. 

If  passed,  Ihe  bill  will  increase  lo 
one-lhird  of  $2,400  or  $800  per  full-lime 
sludenl  from  Ihe  prcseni  $500.  Il  will 
also  increase  a  slipend  grained  lo 
sludenls  in  approved  occupalional  pro- 
grams from  $150  lo  $.100. 

"II  is  conceivable  Ihal  we  may  have 
some  good  news  by  ihe  lime  we  reach 
Ihc  rcceplion,'"  said  Dean  Williams. 


Bulletin  Board 

For  week  of  Monday.  Ocl.  3  lliroiig/i  Sunday ,  Ocl.  9 

•    •    •    •    • 
MEETINGS 
ALPHA  Omega   Ffxlowship...    7   p.m.,   lomorrow,   Tuesday,    Room   329, 
Academic  Center. 

Phi  Beta  Lambba...  12  p.m.,  Wednesday,  first  classroom  on  Ihe  right  on  Ihe  first 
floor  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym. 

Outing  Club...    4:30  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Room  227,  Academic  Center. 
Society  of  Manufacturing  Engineers  Club  (SME)...  4  p.m.  Thursday, 
Room  124,  Administration  Building. 

SPORTS 
Golf...  against  Luzerne  County  Communily  College,  1  p.m.,  Thursday,  home. 

SPECIAL       ACTIVITIES 
ROLLERSKATING sponsored  by  the  Student  Government  Association  Transi- 
tion Commillee,  8  lo  10:30  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Skating  Plus,  Williamsporl. 


Community  colleges  increasingly  popular  with  high  school  grads 


0  9  9ConHfluetlJnmt  Paxt'  I 
corporation  within  several  weeks,"  he 
added. 

The  communily  colleges  have  been 
very  active  in  Gov.  Dick  Thornhurgh's 
$5  million  economic  dcvelopmenl  pro- 
gram dedicated  lo  Iraininp  employees  of 
new  or  rclncaling  induslrics. 
'Born'  AuR.  24.  1963 

Communily  colleges  in  Penn- 
sylvania were  born  on  Aug.  24,  1963 
"Ihc  dale  House  Bill  1066  became  law 
as  Act  484  wilh  then  Gov.  .William  W. 
Scranlon's  signalure.  However,  Ihc 
long  process  may  have  begun  during  the 
Feb.  5,  1926  meeting  of  the  .Stale  Coun- 
cil of  Educalion. 

In  1939,  House  Bill  1989  was  in- 
troduced wilh  Ihe  inlenl  of  pcrmilling 
school  dislricis  of  ihe  first  class  lo 
establish  fifi'un  oillo'o    llu'.  hill  u.is 

inlroduial     m     r\ri\     Mv.h I     ihc 


General  Assembly  --  excepi  Ihc  .session 
of  1943  -  unlil  1959.  which  was  22 
years  laier. 

In  1948,  Ihe  joini  Stale  Govern- 
menl  Commillee  of  Ihc  General 
Assembly  commissicnicd  a  study  of 
posl-high  school  educaiiini.  One  pari  of 
Ihe  sludy  was  a  specific  plan  for  pro- 
viding communily  college  educalion  for 
Ihe  slalc. 

Reacllon  followed  quickly 

Legislative  reacliini  followed  quick- 
ly. In  Ihe  1951  session,  in  iiddilion  lo 
ihe  usual  rcinlroduclion  of  the  1937  bill, 
iherc  was  a  new  bill  (HB1564)  which  in- 
corporaled  many  of  Ihe  fealures  recom- 
mended by  the  1948  sludy. 

This  bill  provided  one  of  Ihe  most 
delailcd  descriptions  of  what  the  junior 
college  should  be  and  should  do.  The 
colleges  were  to  provide  Iransfcr,  senii- 

:':vMWSftW:tsftyft::%%*.ft:Sft:ft::Cft;::::^::ft:ft¥::ft5:S:i:|;S3; 


Parking  lot  to  be  paved 

All  persons  who  parked  their  cars  in  the  rock  parking  lot  wesi  of  the  Technical 
Trades  Center  are  being  reminded  that  in  the  near  future  this  parking  facility  will  be 
closed  due  lo  paving  operations,  according  to  Donald  E.  Peterson,  dean  of  general 
services. 

Dean  Peterson  added  that  due  lo  weather  conditions  and  contractor  availabili- 
ty, il  is  not  possible  to  give  an  exact  dale  for  Ihe  closing  of  the  lot. 

Therefore,  he  said,  drivers  are  alerted  Ihal  on  a  given  morning,  barracades  will 
be  positioned  to  prevent  entry  into  Ihe  area. 

A  security  officer  will  be  available  lo  direct  people  lo  Ihe  parking  facility  at  the 
fori  of  Sii'.qiicluiiiiui  Street. 


/T 


BENSON 


■% 


Ofll  mini,   ^ 
fBMWi  market 


V 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Moyncrd  Sts. 

Gas         Groceries 
Snacks       Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays 


profcssiinial,  general,  technical,  voca- 
tional, and  adull  education  programs. 

In  1951  and  1959,  there  were  two 
dissertations  done  al  The  Pennsylvania 
Slalc  Univcrsily  perlaining  lo  ihc 
eslablishmeni  of  community  colleges  for 
Ihe  slate.  The  first  one  projected  35  col- 
leges established  by  school  districts  and 
Ihe  second  projected  39  colleges 
eslablished  by  independent  junior  col- 
lege dislricis. 

The  legislators  in  Ihc  General 
Assembly  were  aware  of  Ihe  growing 
debale.  In  1957,  there  were  four  dif- 
ferent bills  introduced  and  calling  for 
the  eslablishmeni  of  junior  colleges. 

In  1958,  Ihe  Pennsylvania  Stale 
Educalion  Association's  Committee  of 
Fifteen  reported  that  there  was  a  need 
for  communily  colleges  in  the  state. 

Regional  approach  suggested 

Then,  in  1959,  another  new  ap- 
proach lo  the  establishment  of  com- 
munily colleges  was  suggested.  The  Ad- 
visory Panel  of  ihe  Joint  Stale  Govern- 
ment Commission  in  its  "Litchfield 
Report"  suggested  ihal  additional  ex- 
pansion of  higher  educalion  in  the  stale 
should  come  through  new  junior  col- 
leges established  on  a  regional  basis. 

Then  in  1962,  Ihe  Council  passed  a 
resolution  approving  legislation  which 
would  provide  for  the  creation  and 
operation  of  a  syslem  of  communily  col- 
leges. Wilh  Ihis  in  the  background, 
legislative  activity  picked  up  significant- 
ly. 

Sixties  bring  more  bills 

In  the  1963  session.  Iherc  were  18 
bills  inlroduced:  10  in  the  House  and  8 
in  Ihe  Senale.  Many  of  these  were  slight 
variations  on  a  theme  started  in  one  of 
the  earliesi  bills  inlroduced. 

Ii  was  House  Bill  1066,  however, 
which  was  lo  be  Ihc  successful  one. 
Toward    the    end    of    Ihc    torturous 
Iciiishiiivc  route,  Iherc  was  an  oppor- 


lunily  for  public  hearings  on  ihc  bill  on 
May  23,  1963.  There  were  sialemenis 
from  Ihe  Governor's  Commillee  of  One 
Hundred  for  Bellcr  Educalion, 
numerous  school  dislricis.  unicuis.  col- 
leges and  universilies.  and  commissions 
of  colleges  and  olhcr  organired  grcnips. 

In  Ihe  House  of  Rcpresenlalives. 
Ihe  bill  carried  on  a  vole  of  194  yesscs.  8 
nays,  and  5  no-voles.  When  Ihc  bill 
was  scnl  10  ihc  Senaie.  il  was  pas.sed 
unanimously.  50-0. 

The  bill  was  Ihen  signed  by  Gov. 
Scraiilon  on  Aug.  24,  1963  -  and 
became  Acl  484.  The  Communily  Col- 
lege Act. 

Twenty  years  and  14  campuses  laler. 
with  a  sluggish  economy  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  unemploycd-and-in-nccd- 
of-new-skills.  communily  colleges  in 
Pennsylvania  never  seemed  more 
necessary.  And.  looking  back  on  what 
il  took  to  develop  Ihe  current  syslem,  is 
il  any  wonder  Ihal  a  "20lh  anniversary 
celebralion"  is  in  order? 

And,  if  eiirollmenls  conlinue  al  the 
current  pace,  Ihe  next  20  years  will  be 
even  bctler. 
Fellowship  meets  tomorrow 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  will  meet 
tomorrow  at  7  p.m.  in  Room  229. 
Academic  Center.  The  meeting  is  open 
lo  anyone  interested  in  attending,  accor- 
ding to  Patti  Detweiler.  vice  president  of 
the  club. 

FOR  SALE 

8  fl..  7  in.  pickup  truck  camper 
wilh  4  fl.  tab  overhang.  Sleeps  4. 
Lights  powered  by  D.C.  or  120  voll 
current  or  L.P.  gas.  L.P..  3-burner 
slove  wilh  oven.  Self  contained  water 
lank  and  ample  sliirage.  Camper  jacks 
and  lie  downs  included.  Excellent  for 
family   camping   or   hunting. ..$450. 

CALL:  433-4552 


J 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  SL.  Williamsporl 
/Nal  to  Klunip  Academic  Cenierl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1.321 

OPEN  7:i0  a.m.  Uil  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


Vol,  19.  No.  7     *     Monday.  Ocl.  10.  198.1     ♦     8  Pages 
WilliamspoM  Area  C'nmmumCy  College     *     Williamsport.  Pa.  17701 


Film  festival  starting  today 

The  Sludcnl  Giivcriimcnl  A,s.socia- 
linn  (SGA)  is  starling  a  film  fcslival. 

The  sehedulc  is  as  follows:  Today, 
ApiKulypsc  Now:  Monday,  Ocl.  17, 
Aniiiml House:  Monday,  Ocl.  24,  Tex: 
Sunday,  Ocl.  30,  Murder  By  Death. 
and  Monday.  Ocl.  31,  Halloween  nighl. 
The  Emily. 

Anyone  who  gives  blood  lo  Ihe 
Bloodniobile  on  Tuesday  or  Wednes- 
day, Ocl.  25  or  26  will  be  admillcd  free 
10  sec  T;V  Emily. 

All  movies  will  .slarl  al  7:.30  p.m.  in 
Ihc  Academic  Center  Auditorium  and 
will  cosi  $1. 

Nil  food  or  drink  will  be  permitted 
in  Ihc  :nidilnriiini. 


Free  student  tickets 

for  rededication, 

Ragtime  Revue 

still  available 

Free  lickcls  are  slill  available  lo 

sludcnls  for  Ihc  rededication  of  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  and  tlic 
Riverboat  Ragtime  Revue  concert  at  K 
p.m.,  Saturday,  Ocl.  22. 

Tickets  are  available  in  iwo  loca- 
tions: 

-The  inlramural  alhlelics  and  Col- 
lege activities  office,  firsi  floor,  Bardo 
Gym,  and 

-College  Informatiim  Office,  se- 
C(nid  floor.  Academic  Center. 

All  staff  tickets  have  been 
distribulcd. 

Any  student  tickets  not  picked  up 
by  (his  Wednesday  (Oct.  12)  by  4:30 
p.m.  will  be  made  available  lo  College 
slaff. 

Bolh  students  and  slaff  arc  re- 
quired to  siniw  (  nllcge  idenlificalion  in 
order  ii'  iiln.ini  lutvcts. 


North  Campus  Open  House 
scheduled  for  Ocl.  22-23 

An  open  house  will  be  held  al  the 
College's  North  Campus  at  Wcllsboro 
(ni  Saturday,  Ocl.  22,  and  on  Sunday, 
Ocl.  23,  according  lo  Mrs.  Cathryn  E. 
Addy,  North  Campus  director. 

Auyinie  inleresled  in  louring  the 
North  Campus  facility  is  invited,  said 
Mrs.  Addy. 

The  open  house  will  be  from  I 
p.m.  to  4  p.m.  on  Saturday  and  from 
l;.30  to  4:30  p.m.  on  Sunday. 


Auditorium  rededication  Oct.  22; 
Ragtime  Revue  part  of  event 


The  rededication  of  Ihe  Academic 
Cenlcr  Auditorium  will  lake  place  al  8 
p.m.,  .Saturday,  Oct.  22,  according  lo 
Dr.  Miles  Williams,  dean  of  employee 
and  public  relations. 

Following  Ihe  redcdicaliim,  ihcrc 
will  be  a  performance  by  Ihc  Riverboat 
Ragtime  Revue  from  New  Orleans.  The 
event  is  sponsored  by  Ihe  College  and 


by  the  Williamsport  Recrcalion  Com- 
mission. 

The  event  will  be  semi-formal. 

Tickets  arc  free.  /See  relaleil  sloiy, 
this  paae.j 

The  auditorium  underwent  exten- 
sive refurbishing  over  the  past  summer. 
Sealing  was  changed,  the  stage  was 
renovated,  and  a  new  sound  system  was 


installed  -  among  other  improvements. 
Among  the  group  events  already 
held  in  the  "new"  auditorium  were  Ihc 
faculty  convocation  al  the  beginning  of 
this  semester,  a  yearbook  seminar  which 
allraclcd  studcnis  from  the  northern  tier 
high  schools,  and  a  College  Student 
Ciovernmenl  Associalicm  Transition 
Committee  sponsored   folksingcr  con- 


ON  THE  INSIDE  _,,  ,  ,.,       i  ^  r,  ^    ^  ^ 

SGA  office  hours  se.         Bloodmooile  hcre  Oct.  25-26; 

Page  8  ' 

Computer  science  challenge^,.^     ^(Q^y   Of  gratcful  family   rCCalkd 

Long  range  planning.',",'.' B,  Grej-.-ry  W.  Huff  ""  p);'"  f"^'"^  i|]'^  ^^l^^duled  vistt  of  the 

Pages  Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  SlafI  w  V.       n       1.'"".  ,f      ^ 

"^"S"^  ■>  A.,„„.^.„,.    r,  „„   ,1,,   o,A   rr,„  Wednesday,  Ocl.  25  and  26,  according 

Baslielball  iryouts  Oct.  17 _,     Atte  dams     rom   the   Red   Cross  ,^   ^^^    ^j^^^^^    ^     p^^^.^^^_.    ^J_ 

n         ^  Diooonittniic  will   r<;i';)\c   (jnnur',   imin  ,,.,.■  j  ^  i 
Page  0  n.^c              .  |.-  „        1^  1^^  1^1      |,  dmalor  of  inlramural  alhlelics  and  Col- 

1::::SSW:¥:::::::::::::SW:::::::W::::k^^^^  :      :       ;    :.        lege  aclivilies. 

The  efforts  of  Ihc  donors  have  a 
I  wide  ranging  and  meaningful  impact  on 
K;  Ihc  lives  of  many  persons,  she  recalled 
•¥      last  week. 

Assislance  remembered 
:?  One   grateful    individual    in    par- 

Si     licular  is  Mrs.  Edna  F.  Reiff,  financial 
Hi     aid  assisiani  al  Ihc  College,  whose  fami- 
•:•:     ly  has  in  the  past  benefitted  from  the 
S     kindness  of  Ihc  College  "family". 
I  In    1966,   the   Reiffs'    14-year-old 

■iii  daughter,  Susan,  a  leukemia  vielim,  was 
Ji  Ihc  recipieni  of  several  blood  transfu- 
i:|:  sions.  The  blood,  said  Mrs.  Reiff,  was 
*:  supplied  by  students,  slaff  members, 
and  faculty  at  Ihc  College. 

Prior  lo  thai,  she  continued,  Susan 

had     had     heart     surgery     at     St. 

•  ••Please  iiirn  III  Pages 


2        SPOTLIGHT        Mondjy.  Ocl.  10.  1983 

When  will  our  lawmakers 

realize  that  our  educational 

system  needs  help? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Media  coverage  has  been  extensive  concerning  ihe  deficiencies  in  Ihe 
American  educational  system 

Apparently  the  publicity  has  finally  caused  lawmakers  and  local  officials  to 
lake  a  better  look  at  that  is  happening  in  our  schools  Had  officials  and  law 
makers  cared  to  listen  or  bothered  to  ask  most  any  concerned  parent  of  10. 15.  or 
even  20  years  ago.  they  would  have  avoided  many  of  today's  problems 

Now  that  they  know  there  are  problems-do  they  know  what  the  problems 
really  are  and  do  they  have  the  right  solutions'' 

Whether  they  do  or  not  is  debatable    However,  Ihe  "wheels  are  turning" 
The  Stale  House  Education  Committee  recently  approved  (unanimously)  a  bill 
that  would  tighten  high  school  graduation  requirements    If  passed,  the  law  would 
mandate  comprehensive  educational  testing  in  Ihe  second,  fifth,  eighth  and 
eleventh  grades 

The  Education  Department  would  develop  and  pay  for  Ihe  tests,  which 
would  cover  reading,  writing,  math,  science,  and  social  studies 

In  a  recenl  article  of  the  "Patriot,"  Rep  Chaka  Fattah.  D-Philadelphia.  was 
quoted  as  saying  he  had  voted  for  Ihe  bill  but  said  it  will  have  little  effect  without 
increased  funding  for  education 

How  unfortunate  that  the  future  of  our  children  and,  indeed,  of  our  country 
depends  on  "increasing  funding"  when  many  people  are.  literally,  fighting  to  slay 
alive  in  a  period  of  economic  adversity 

The  "salt  in  Ihe  wounds"  is  a  fact  thai  our  elected  state  lawmakers  most 
expediently  chose  this  time  to  vote  themselves  each  a  $10,000  to  $12,000  an- 
nual raise  plus  up  to  $18,000  more  for  expense  and  ollice  accounts 

The  $10,000  raise  alone  is  more  than  many  families  have  as  a  yearly  gross 
income 

The  millions  they've  donated  to  pay-increases  would  have  been  much  better 
spent  in  funding  educational  reforms. 

Another  item  officials  at  all  levels  would  do  well  to  consider  is  Ihe  gross 
mismanagement  of  funds  taking  place  in  the  educational  syslems  as  well  as  other 
areas  of  governmeni 

It  may  come  as  quite  a  surprise  to  some  that  reading,  writing,  spelling, 
English  grammei  and  vocabulary,  math,  science,  and  social  studies  can  be 
laughf  very  well  without  Olympic-size  swimming  pools,  tennis  courts,  and  wall-to- 
wall  carpeting,  nol  to  mention  new  buildings  every  lew  years 

Actually  the  cost  ot  a  belter  standard  of  education  isn't  as  much  as  a  pro- 
blem as  the  need  for  a  new  set  of  priorities 

What  is  needed  is  really  quite  simple 

Children  need  to  be  taught  all  Ihe  basics  including  sell-discipline  and  respon- 
sibility They  need  dedicated  teachers  who  are  more  concerned  with  the  minds 
and  character  of  their  pupils  than  they  are  with  paychecks  Perhaps  most  ot  all, 
they  need  a  caring  society  that  is  interested  enough  to  gel  involved 

'It's  Not  Easy'  to  be  hit 
due  to  skillful  acting 

says  reviewer  Gary  A.  Nichols 

"It's  Not  Easy ",  a  new  series  this  fall,  premiered  last  Thursday  on  ABC 
Sharon  and  Jack  (Carlene  Watkins,  Ken  Howard)  are  divorced  and  share 
custody  of  their  Iwo  children    The  mam  problem  is  that  Sharon  and  her  husband 
Neal  (Burt  Convy)  live  across  the  street  from  Jack  and  his  mother  (Jayne 
Ikleadows) 

This  situtation  comedy  is  a  good  display  of  how  a  family  copes  with  divorce. 
Although  Sharon  and  Jack  are  constantly  bickering  at  one  another,  they  have  re- 
mained friends  The  continual  needling  between  Neal  and  Jack  adds  a  great  deal 
ot  humor  and  laughter  to  the  show 

Jack's  mother  completes  the  cycle  of  humor  by  adding  her  "Iwo  cents"  to 
whatever  she  hears  or  sees 

This  show  should  be  a  real  "hit"  this  fall  because  of  the  skillful  acting  of 
Howard.  Convy.  Meadovis.  and  Watkins  The  first  three  are  veterans  of  the 
television  screen  while  the  latter  is  a  new  lace,  who  like  the  show,  is  bound  for 
success 


Statue  of  Liberty 

deserves 

a  return 

of  appreciation 


Guest  column 

By  Patrick  D.  Murphy 

assistant  professor  of  advertising  art 

The  Statue  of  Liberty  celebrates  her  1 0Olh  birthday  next  year  A  gift  from  the 
French  people  to  the  Uniled  States,  the  statue  of  Liberty  has  become  an  impor- 
tant symbol  not  only  in  this  country  but  around  the  world 

The  artist,  Auguste  Bartholdi.  probably  never  realized  the  symbolic  impact 
his  statue  would  have  100  years  into  the  future 

The  statue  was  initially  assembled  and  formally  presented  to  the  United 
Slates  on  July  4,  1884.  in  France  On  Ocl,  28.  1886.  Ihe  Statue  of  Liberty  was 
dedicated,  in  this  country,  by  President  Grover  Cleveland 

The  colossal  statue  stands  majestically  in  the  Upper  Bay  of  New  York  Har- 
bor: her  solemn  grandeur  a  reminder  of  a  classicism  introduced  to  civilization 
more  than  2.000  years  ago 

The  facial  expression  with  broad  and  strong  features,  and  large  eyes  set 
deep  under  her  brow,  idealizes  the  classical  tradition  The  great  mass  moves 
gracefully  skyward  with  uplilled  arm  and  hand  grasping  the  flaming  torch 

The  deep  folds  ot  the  fluid  drapery  achieve  light  and  shadow  surface  varia- 
tions accenting  the  majestic  figure  ot  Liberty 

Chrysler  President  Lee  lacocca,  chairman  of  the  Statue  of  Libery-Ellis  Island 
Centennial  Commission,  announced  in  New  York  on  Sept  27  that  the  $40  million 
needed  to  renovate  the  nalional  landmark  has  been  raised  through  private  dona- 
tions 

The  19lh  Century  German  philosopher  Arthur  Schopenhauer  wrote:  "  Ihe 
work  of  fine  art.  poetry  and  philosophy  produced  by  a  nation  are  the  outcome  of 
Ihe  superfluous  intellect  existing  in  it  " 

The  contribution  made  by  the  French  is  almost  as  endless  as  it  is  great  The 
intrinsic,  symbolic  value  of  this  French  gift  to  this  country  cannot  be  measured  in 
any  certain  terms 

But,  it  the  people  of  this  country  could  in  some  way  express  their  apprecia- 
tion, Ihere  would  never  be  a  better  time  to  do  so  than  now  during  the  centennial 
celebration  of  the  Statue  of  Liberty 

Mystery  and  suspense 
captures  reader 

...says  reviewer  Kathryn  M.  Gilbert 

Stranger  in  Ihe  House  by  Palricia  J  MacDonald  is  a  book  about  a  family 
whose  son  has  been  kidnapped  at  the  age  of  four  and  has  been  returned  back  to 
his  original  parents  1 1  years  later 

During  Paul's  reiurn  back  lo  his  family,  he  has  many  adiuslments  to  make 
The  lifestyle  he  has  been  living  has  been  that  ot  being  poor  and  living  in  West 
Virginia  Now.  he  is  in  an  upper  middle  class  home  in  Conneciicut  where  he  can 
have  anything  moriey  can  buy 

Establishing  a  relationship  with  his  parenis  and  younger  sister  has  been  a 
problem     For  them,  adjusnng  lo  him  has  put  a  sirain  on  iheir  family  life 

The  past  comes  back  to  haunt  Paul  Paul's  neighbor,  Edward  Stewari.  is  the 
one  who  has  been  involved  in  what  tias  happerned  lo  Paul  In  his  panic  lo  pro- 
ted  his  name  and  social  reputation.  Edward  lurns  to  violence  and  is  out  to 
desiroy  Paul  and  his  family. 

The  story  is  full  of  suspense  and  keeps  the  reader  involved  ihroughoui  itie 
book    Once  started,  the  book  is  hard  to  put  down 


SPOTLIGHT " 

The  SPOTLIGHT  ,s  published  each 
Monday  morning  ol  ihe  academic  year  by 
iournalism  and  oltie,  .nieresled  sludenls 
al  the  Williamsporl  Area  Commumry  Col- 
lege,  1005  w  Ttii.d  SI.  Williamsporl, 
Pa  17701  Telephone  326-3761  ExI 
..3?1 


The  opinions  expressed  aie  those  ol 
the  student  newspaper,  ol  individual 
wnteis  Of  ot  individuals  interviewed  and 
do  nol  leltect  the  opinion  ol  the  inslilu- 


Die  SPOruCHr  is  a  memoei  ol  me 
Columbia  Scnolasiic  Press  Associalion 


^ 


Production  Team  This  Issue 

Anneiie  M  Enget,  produciion  supervisor 
Mary  L  Pease,  videocnmpnsiiiun  Perry 
0  Perwz,  copy  ediior,  James  K  Mnr 
rissey  and  Joseph  p  Povieski  prnduciiDo 
assisianis 


^^^-^iffiy^^^ii^^sm^z^^siiii^^^  >s»-  •  - 


Drollo-Crypto 


Monday,  Ocl.  10,  1983       SPOTLIGHT       3 


Here's  this  week's  droll  crvplomessage.  Clues:  The  message  has  lo 
do  with  somelhing  thai  none  of  us  has  enough  of...  and....\  stands  for 
S,  while  L  stands  for  0.   Have  fun! 

HLLPKIXFPY  LF       PCW  YBFNV 

LH  PXZW  BIW  FLP  ZBNW 

VE  PCW  KWIYLF  TCL  XY 

BJTJEY  YXPPXFM  NLTF 

Solution  lo  last  week's  Drollo-Crypto 


Letting  your  fingers  do  the  walking 
is  okay  fyou  want  to  always  be 
looking  at  the  world  upside  down. 


finlutinn  In  this  week's  puzzle:  next  week. 

Students  participate  in 
cooperative  education  program 

Certain  members  in  the  meclianical  engineering  organization  will  be  par- 
ticipating in  cooperative  education  program  throughout  the  school  year.  Many  of 
these  students  arc  enrolled  in  engineering  drafting,  tool  design,  tool  making  and 
general  machinist  curriculums. 

Alcan  Cable,  Marathon  Carey-McFall,  West  Company,  and  Koppers  are  just 
a  few  of  the, many  businesses  which  participate  in  the  cooperative  education  pro- 
gram. 

"Students  in  the  third  or  fourth  semester  of  their  curriculum  who  have  main- 
tained good  grades  arc  usually  first  choice  when  co-op  jobs  arise.  The  students  are 
SCI  up  with  a  job  or  responsibility  which  is  beneficial  to  what  Ihey  are  being  taught 
at  the  College,"  staled  Chalmcr  £■  Vau  Horn,  associate  professor  of  drafting  and 
club  adviser. 

The  sludenls  usually  average  from  8  to  20  hours  a  ucck  and  arc  supervised  and 
paid  by  the  industry.  A  coordinator  from  the  College  periodically  checks  with  the 
industry  to  monitor  how  the  student  is  performing  and  see  that  they  are  getting  ex- 
perience which  will  help  them  in  their  future  business  careers. 

Media  Center  to  be  closed  Thursday 

The  College  Media  Ccnicr,  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center,  will  be  closed 
this  Thursday,  according  lo  A.  Neale  Winner,  coordinator  of  instructional  media. 
The  Media  Ccnicr  slaff  will  all  be  participating  in  a  training  session,  he  said. 
All  requesls  previously  made  for  that  day  will  be  honored,  he  noted. 


AA  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers    you    can    own!       Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 


Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

%eTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  musk  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
81/2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701 1 


ACROSS 
1  Walch 
pockel 
4  Clay-colorei 

pigment 
9  Oovescry 
12  Exrst 


15  Ret  eat 
1 7  Center 
19  Gold  fabric 
■  21  Diphthong 
22  Skip  problem 
25  Macaw 
27  Approach 
ICryo 


32  f 


and 


34  Part  of 

35  Hawai>i 


roolstock 

36  Attempt 

37  Sun  god 

38  Florida 
Indians 

41  Roman  god 

42  Stupefy 

43  Negative 

44  Location 

45  Lalin 

47  Beehive  State 
49  Crucial  times 
53  Peaceful 

57  Goal 

58  Thurmond  of 
the  Senate 

60  Fuss 

61  Soft  food 

62  fvlountam 

63  Seed 

DOWN 

1  Distant 

2  Oslo  com 


5  Burning,  as 
of  documents 

6  Exclamation 

7  Male  sheep 

8  Lamb's  pen 

9  Uncouth 
person 

10  Lubricate 

16  Island,  m 

Pans 
18  Lure 
20  Time  period 

22  Collect 

23  Heavenly 

24  Negative 

26  Special  con- 
sideration 

28  Preposition 

29  Earn 

30  Expunge 
32  Offspring 


CROSS 
WORD 
PUZZLE 

Answer 
next  week 


39  Fraternity         51  Demon 


41  501   Ron 
44  Haggard 
46  Trial 
48  Umbs 


54  Short  sleep 


1 

2 

3-4 

5      6      T~ 

e~ 

n 

n 

n 

H" 

w 

_r 

i" 

m 

■■ 

w 

■  " 

IPW 

...4, 

■ 

" 

I 

27    28    29 

30 

34- 
38 

ji 

"1- 

- 

-i- 

- 

1 

36 

40 

W'V 

1 

"1 

i 

i 

1» 

sT 

46 

■ 

I 

w 

1^ 

- 

- 

UfcJ 

S   T  E  pHp  a  rHt  o  a  D 

P   O     L    oHa    R    e|o     L     L     a 

arahHimpBsear 

Wmm 

ARACHN     1     DJaN.eT^ 

T    AM     1     NG|    AUTHOR 
E    R    1     nUe    I     lUh     1     0    E 
R    1    N  sHr   E    1  Be   R    1    E 
L"_  *  J'    eMs  _A    J[m_    end 

•^Answer 
to  last  week's 
crossword 


Transfer  Day  next  Wednesday 


Transfer  Day  will  lake  place  at  the 
College,  next  Wednesday,  Oct.  19, 
Thomas  C.  Schoff,  career  development 
center  counselor,  reminded  in  a  letter 
last  week. 

Transfer  Day,  an  annual  event,  will 
give  students  an  opportunity  to  visit 
with  various  college  admission  person- 
nel and  representatives  about  their  con- 
cerns and  interests,  Shoff  said. 

Thirlv-two     collcacs     will     be 


represented  on  this  day. 

The  college  representatives  will  be 
available  from  1:30  to  4:30  p.m.  in  the 
hallways  of  the  Learning  Resources 
Center. 

Any  student  who  wishes  transfer 
information  should  contact  Schoff  in  the 
Career  Development  Center,  Room  157, 
Learning  Resources  Center,  or  call  Ext. 
246. 


D  A  K   K   Y       O     Third  Street  Sandwich  Parlor 

Brooklyn  -  Style  Eatery 

330-32  W.  Third  Strccl.  WilHamsporl.  PA  17701 

iiicrcss /ram  Fraud's  Storage/ 
HOURS:  Mon.S  Tues.,6  a.m.-midnighl 
Wed.,  opens  6  a.m.  &  24  HOURS  thru  Sunday 

*  New  York  style  hot  dogs  *  Burgers 

•  Overpacked  deli-style  sanduuiches  *  Salad  &  Soup  bar 


•  Chic 


OPENING  SPECIAL 

^^^     Beverage  with 
Salad  Bar 


SPOTLIGHT       Monday.  Ocl.  10,  I98J 


FOLKSINGKK  Ted  Sleranko  performs 
a  classic  sung  diirin);  ciinccrl  Sep).  28 
in     Academic     Center     Audiliirium. 

ISPOTUGHT  p/ioli)/. 

Social  gathering  planned 
for  faculty  on  Hiawatha 

A  social  galhcriiig  is  planned  for 
the  College  facully  aboard  Ihc 
Hiawalha,  a  simulalcd  paddlewhcci 
boal,  this  Wednesday. 

The  iwo-hour  cruise,  from  7  lo  9 
p.m.  will  lake  Ihe  facully  members  up 
ihe  Susquehanna  River. 

Firsl-year  food  and  hospii:iliu 
manaeemcnl  sludcnls  will  be  calcnnp 
Ihe  even  I. 

Computer  science  inslriiclor 
to  speak  ul  Tuesday  niecliiig 
of  Computer  Science  Club 

Gary  R,  Knebel,  compuler  science 
inslruclor,  will  be  Ihe  featured  speaker 
at  Ihe  nexl  regular  meeting  of  the  Com- 
puter Science  Club,  according  to 
Richard  R.  O'Donnell,  a  computer 
science  studcnl  from  Rcnovo,  public 
relations. 

The  topic  of  Knebel 's  discussion 
will  be  a  quick  review  of  Ihe  cdilor,  and 
a  focus  on  advance  text  editing,  said 
O'Donnell. 

The  nexl  meeting  of  the  Compuler 
Science  Club  will  be  at  MO  p.m.  Tucs 
day,  Room  321,  Academic  Ccnier. 


100  attend    Computer  science  offers 
Steranko       challenge  and  opportunity 
concert        says  new  faculty  person 


Ted  Steranko,  folksinger-guilarisi, 
marked  Ihc  first  Sludenl  Governmeiil 
Associalion  (.SGA)  event  in  the  iiewly- 
rennovaled  Academic  Center 
Auditorium,  according  lo  Miss  Jill  J. 
Hampton,  spokesperson  for  Ihe  SGA 
Transition  Commillec. 

Steranko  performed  memorable 
songs  by  Jim  Croce.  Harry  Chapin, 
James  Taylor,  and  Cal  Stevens. 

Sicranko  also  did  Iwo  original 
songs, /*/«/;,  Plop,  Fizz,  Fizz  (the  com- 
mercial song)  and  She  Smiled. 

An  audience  of  about  100  enjoyed 
and  participated  in  Slcranko's  singing 
and  playing.  Miss  Hampton  said.  The 
audience  also  made  several  requests  and 
the  performer  honored  all  Ihe  requests, 
she  added. 

Steranko,  originally  from  Reading, 
has  been  singing  and  playing  profes- 
siiuially  for  six  years.  Afler  his  perfor- 
mance here,  he  said,  "I  am  looking  for- 
ward to  coming  back  lo  Ihc  College  lo 
play  again." 


PRKSIDENT  of  (he  F(.res(rv 
Club  this  year  is  Tom  J 
Smink,  forest  lechn(>Ioi;>  slu 
(lent       from       Hallidd 

IM'OllKillI  i<lmu>l 


Faculty  positions  and  enrollment  are  growing  at  Ihe  College  with  the  largest 
because,  "I  has  always  been  inlereslcd  in  math,  science,  and  compuler  .science  real- 
ly evolved  out  of  this.  I  like  Ihe  analytical  proportion  of  it.  I  enjoy  solving  pro- 
blems. I  guess  I  view  compuler  science  as  a  technology  ihal  certainly  will  n<il  go 
away.  It  is  a  tool  for  mankind.  We  can  do  some  tremendous  things  and  that  is  ex- 
citing lo  me." 

Although  Eisley  has  only  been  teaching  for  five  weeks,  he  feels  leaching  com- 
puler science  is  basically  like  leaching  in  any  other  field.  "You  have  lo  aniicipale 
sludenl  questions,  anticipate  where  they  have  a  rough  lime  and  find  methods  lo  gel 
ihem  over  those  temporary  hurdles,"  Eisley  added. 

Over  the  past  three  decades,  things  have  been  gelling  easier  lo  do.  Computers 
have  been  gelling  easier  lo  use  also.  In  Ihc  fulurc  Ihc  compuler  will  be  able  lo  be 
used  by  people  off  Ihe  streets,  not  just  compuler  lechnologisls.  Currently  higher 
level  languages  like  COBOL  and  FORTRAN  are  in  wide  use.  These  are  languages 
developed  to  make  il  easier  to  communicale  with  Ihe  computer  and  for  the  job  peo- 
ple want  il  lo  do.  Research  is  presently  being  d(me  in  voice  recognilion  enabling 
people  lo  speak  lo  the  compuler  lo  cxeculc  commands. 

Computer  both  positive  and  negative 
"Computers   have   both   a   positive   and   negative   effect   on   the   business 
industry,"  Eisley  said. 

"On  Ihc  positive  side,  computers  put  at  our  disposal  much  more  information 
than  we  should  get  and  in  a  much  shorter  time." 

On  Ihe  negalive  side,  businesses  have  lo  be  cautious  because  more  and  more 
Ihe  vital  niformalion  or  records  are  stored  on  computer  systems,  Ihe  more  people 
have  lo  keep  Iheir  guard  up  in  case  of  fraud  or  embc/zlcmcnl.  With  Ihc  growing 
icchnologies  of  computers,  more  and  more  businesses  are  reiving  heavily  on  c(un- 
pnlers  and  if  they  do  not  take  prccaulicms  il  could  make  Ihe'm  very  vulnerable. 

The  compuler  science  curriculum  al  ihe  College  "has  grown  by  leaps  and 
hnunds,"  Eisley  said.  Enrollmcnl  for  the  1978-79  school  year  was  1 15  people  com- 
p;ircd  10  the  current  (1983-84)  enrollmcnl  of  313  people. 

Some  jobs  which  may  be  available  lo  graduates  arc:  applicalions  programmer 

systems  analyst,  sales,  and  if  enough  icchnical  background,  data  communications.' 

Incomes  vary  greatly.    In  1981  income  was  approximately  $13,000.    Other 

slatistics  were:  78  percent  of  graduating  cla.ss  working,  2  percenl  were  unemployed 

2  percenl  were  in  the  military,  and  10  percenl  went  on  lo  college. 

Although  compuler  science  (or  processing)  is  a  growing  Held,  more  and  more 
people  arc  "jumping  on  ihc  band  wagon"  lo  gel  computer  training,  which  means 
more  people  arc  graduating  with  degrees  in  compuler  science. 

Students  should  be  aware  Ihal  "jusi  showing  employers  a  degree  will  not  work 
with  Ihe  growing  number  of  graduates  in  Ihe  field.  They  are  being  more  selcclive  " 
Eisley  said.    He  akso  added,  "a  lol  of  efforl  will  have  lo  be  put  into  il  " 

"There  will  always  be  jobs  out  there  for  good  people,"  according  lo  Eisley 


iiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiMiniiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiimiiiiniii 


WWAS 

88FN\ 

WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  joined  forces 
to  give  you  a  chance  to  win  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS-so  listen  to  WWAS  Monday 
thru  Friday.    To  win,  all  you  have  to  do  is  call' 

326-1408 
Your  Commercial  Free 


Place  To  Be 

'■>■■■ >■"" > iiiiiiiiiiiiiuiniiuiiiimiiiiiiiiNiiiiiii iininiiiii 


Microcomputer  'managernent  tool' 

"The  microcomputer  is  a  manage- 
mcni  loot,"  said  George  P.  Wolfe, 
:ivsociale  professor  of  computer  science. 

Wolfe  was  the  guest  speaker  al  a 
luncheon  held  by  the  Kiwanis  Club  on 
Thursday,  Sept.  29. 

Wolfe  gave  his  audience  "a  behind 
Ihe  scene"  glimpse  of  Ihe  design  concept 
of  a  microcomputer  and  prcsenled  fre- 
quenlly  used  compuler  jargon. 


George  P.  Wolfe  tells  Kiwanians 

To  eliminate  the  mystery  of  the 
microcomuptcr,  Wolfe  gave  his  listeners 
crilcria  they  could  evaluate.  He  also 
an.swered  questions  about  any  objectives 
and  fears  of  a  compuler.  In  conclusion, 
he  discussed  how  to  defend  yourself 
when  talking  to  a  compuler  salesman. 

The  meeting  was  alleiidcd  by  ap- 
proximalcly  80  professional 
businessmen. 


Nearly  7,500  varieties  of  apples  are  |n   Au.slralia   Ihe   words:      billy, 

grown  m  the  world.  More  than  2.500  of  means  a  can  for  outdoor  cooking  and 

ihcse  varieties  arc  grown  in  the  United  boiling  waler;  digger  is  a  .soldier;  yakka 

Stales.  is  hard  work. 


Humpty  Dumpty 

sub  &  pizza  shops  welcomes...  WACC  students 
J  1  5°/o  off  any  food  purchases  I 


Soulhside 

W  Central  &  Market 


(Must  have  valid  WACC  ID) 


Creek  Side 
Lycom   Creek  Rd 


Mcinday.  Oif.  10,  1983        SPOTLIGHT        5 


iniiiiuay.  >iii.  lu,   I78J         SKOILIOf 

Long  range  planning  establishes  personal  enrichment  as  goal 


"Personal  enrichmciil"  is  one  of 
several  priorhics  sialed  in  ihc  College 
philosophy  slalcnienl,  which  was 
finali/cd  al  an  open  mccling  Scpl.  27  by 
Ihc  lonj;  range  planning  process  sub- 
comniillce  reviewing  philosophy  and 
mission. 

The  philosophy  slalcmenl,  which 
remains  unchanged  from  Ihc  presented 
Scpl.  16  draft,  reads  as  follows: 
Personal  enrichmeni  noled 

"Wc  believe  in  Ihc  dignity  and 
worth  of  all  individuals.  We  believe 
learning  is  a  lifelong  process  and  that  all 
individuals  should  have  opportunities 
for  lifelong  education.  We  believe 
education  should  help  individuals 
develop,  to  their  maximum  capacity, 
technical  csccllencc.  occupational  profi- 
ciency, and  academic  ability. 

"Wc  believe  education  should  also 
provide  for  perscmal  enrichment.  To 
pros|)cr  in  a  complex  and  changing 
society,  wc  believe  individuals  must 
learn  to  think  independently,  value 
logical  and  tested  conclusions,  develop 
problem  .solving  abilities,  and  function 
effectively  with  other  people. 

"We  believe  that  competent  perfor- 
mance contributes  signiftcantly  to  in- 
dividual health  and  happiness  and 
benefits  the  organizations  and  com- 
munities which  individuals  work  and 
live. 

"Wc  believe  the  College  is  an  in- 
tegral part  of  the  C(mimunity  it  serves 
and  must  respond  to  identified  needs 
and  iiilcicsls.     In  dclivcnim  cducaiion 


services,  wc  believe  there  is  no  subsiitnic 
for  the  pursuit  of  excellence." 

Excellence  in  instruction  "at 
reasonable  student  cost"  is  the  College's 
highest  priority,  according  to  the  mis- 
sion statement .  Because  of  t  he  extensive 
contmittiient  to  the  "hands  on"  occupa- 
tional programming,  the  College  also 
serves  as  a  regional,  national,  and  inter- 
national resource. 

College  iinplemenis  philosophy 
The  College  seeks  to  implement  its 
philosophy  by  providing: 
-quality    po,stsecondary    occupational 
and  transfer  programs  and  services  for 
all  those  who  can  benefit,  including 
those  who  have  previously  discontiitucd 
their  formal  education, 
-quality  vocational-technical  programs 


and  service  for  area  secondary  students 

Related  pnigrainminK 
-acccssable  full  and  part-time  educa- 
tional opportunities  and  .services  which 
address  a  wide  spectrum  of  individual 
needs  and  abilities  through  varied  for- 
mats, schedules,  geographic  location, 
and  short-term  courses. 

-educational  programming  related  to 
economic  and  employment  realities, 
-additional  and  enriched  career  options 
through  cooperation  with  industry, 
business,  professions,  government,  and 
other  educational  institutions. 

-comprehensive  programs  which  iii- 
Icgralc  comtiiunicalicms,  math,  science, 
humanities,  interpersonal  skills,  reason- 
ing, and  physical  health  and  safety. 


Opporlunlly  lo  develop... 

-opportunity  to  develop  skills  needed  lo 
enter  and  succeed  in  programs, 
-continuing  opportunities  to  extend  and 
upgrade  skills,  knowledge,  and  interests. 

-support  for  informed  decisions  using 
knowledge  of  abilities,  interests,  and 
values  realized  through  testing,  evalua- 
tion and  counseling,  as  well  as  in,slrue- 
lion. 

-opportunities  to  develop  personal, 
.social,  and  cultural  dimensions. 

These  revised  and  finalized 
philosophy  and  mission  slalemejils  were 
recimimended  for  adoption  to  the  Board 
of  Trustees  last  Thursday,  at  their  mon- 
thly mccling. 


Mrs.  Blackburn,  Mrs.  Hubbard,  Mrs.  Miles  honored; 
bosses  present  College's  PACE  Awards  on  'Boss's  Night' 


Omrlesy  Cnl/cac  liifiiniiuliiiii  Office 

Three  members  of  the  College  staff 
were  honored  at  Boss's  Night  last 
Wednesday  at  The  Hillside  Restaurant. 
The  three  employees,  all  part  of  the  Col- 
lege's classified  staff  (composed  of 
clerical  and  support  stafO  were 
presented  with  Performance  Awards  lor 
Classified  Employees  (PACE  Awards). 

Receiving  plaqitcs  were: 

Mrs.  Marian  E.  Blackhiirn,  of 
South  Williamsport,  secretary  to  the 
dirccKir  of  lifelong  education. 

Mrs.     Joan     M.      Hubbard,     of 


Williamsport,  payroll  clerk. 

Mrs.  Jane  R.  Miles,  of 
Williamsporl,  secretary  to  the  dean  of 
development. 

The  bosses  of  each  of  Ihc  honorccs 
were  present  to  sec  them  accept  the 
awards. 

The  staffers  were  chosen  on  the 
basis  of  job  performance,  their  relation- 
ships with  co-wiirkcrs,  their  coojierativc 
spirit  toward  students,  co-workers  and 
the  public,  their  willingness  to  take  on 
new  cliallcnccs  and  new  responsibilities. 


and  on  Ihc  positive  image  of  the  College 
they  are  able  to  project  lo  Ihc  public. 

Awardecs  were  chosen  aflcr 
uonhnatiinis  were  opened  up  to  ad- 
ministrative, professional  and  technical 
staff. 

The  College  president,  Dr.  Robert 
I,.  Breuder,  awarded  the  plaques  to  the 
three  classified  staffers  at  Boss's  Night 
-  which  was  the  first  of  what  is  to  be  an 
annual  affair. 

Mine  than  50  classified  staffers  and 
bosses  were  present. 


TONIGHT:  7:30  p.m. 


Ill  llie 


Academic  Center  Auditorium 


I 


Coming  Attraction 

NEXT  MONDAY: 

Same  time,  same  place! 


MARLON  BRANDO  ROBERT  DUVALL  MARUN  SHEEN  .AfOXYPSE  NOW 

FREDERIC  FORREST  ALBERT  HAa  SAM  BOTTOMS  LARRT  RSHBURNE  «  DENN6  HOFTCR 

p™*m  « DMM  b,  FRANCIS  COPPOLA 

«,i„i,JOHNMIUUS«FRANaSCOPP0Uto«tob,MCHAELHERR 

a>PM^  b,  FRED  ROCS,  GRAY  FREDERCKSON  «  TOM  STERNBERG 

o.«,dPM.„»,  VITTORIG  STORARO  e«*^a,  o,^  DEAN  lAWULARIS  £«.  RCHARO  MARKS 

na=,»i,WALTERMURCH  h««i,  CARMINE  COPPOLA  « FRANCIS  COPPOLA  AN  OMNI  ZOETTOPE  PRODUCTION 


It  was  the  Deltas  against  the 
rules...  the  rules  lost! 


AMIMAL  IWUfI 

A  UNIVEfX5Al.  PiaURE     TICHNICOLOI\*  jto-PdI 


6       SPOTLIGHT       Monday.  Ocl.  10.  I98J 

Harriers  win  2, 
record  goes  to  4 

The  Cnllcgc'';  harriers  raised  I  heir 
season's  record  l«  4-i  willi  triangular 
nicci  wins  over  Delaware  Counly  Coin- 
munily  College,  2.V32.  and  Mon- 
igomcry  Counly  Comniuniiy  College. 
23-38,  on  Ocl.  I  al  Monlgomcry  Counly 
Communily  College,  according  lo 
records  provided  by  Phillip  D.  Landers, 
cross  counlry  coach. 

A  firsl  place  finish  by  Shawn  H. 
Gchiell.  general  sludics  sludenl  from 
Walsonlown.  helped  id  propel  Ihc  har- 
riers pasi  Ihcir  compelilion, 

Gelncll     finished     Ihc     five-mile 
course  in  28  minulcs  and  8  scciinds. 
College's  leam  flmes 
The  remainder  of  Ihe  College  leam. 
Iheir  places  and  limes  arc  as  follows: 
Kevin  S.  Byler.  conslruclion  Icchnology 
.sludenl    from   Slalinglon,   3rd.   29:18: 
Warren  P.  Renninger.  nursery  manage- 
mcnl  sludenl  from  Williamsporl.  5lh. 
29:47;  Marliii  E.  Chilcole.  foreslry  slu- 
denl  from   Roberls   Dale.  6lh,  29:51; 
Dave  A.  Tilus.  general  sludics  sludenl 
from  Jersey  Shore.  8lh.  31:05. 
Interspersing  causes  varialion 
Edward  T.   Willis,   eleclrical   oc- 
cupalions  sludenl   from   Curwcnsville. 
I3lh,  34:12;  l.arry  T.  Sarvcy,  conslruc- 
lion lechnology  sludenl  from  Brockway. 
34:26;    Robin    C.    Wrighl.    conipulcr 
science  sludenl  from  Turbolvillc.  I61I1. 
34:54.  and   Kelvin   0.   Slubbs,   diesci 
mechanics    sludenl     from     Urodwiw 
17lh,  35:54. 

The  places  of  ihe  leani  mcnibcrs 
will  vary  in  Ihc  meel  againsl  Mon- 
lgomcry Counly  Cmnmunily  College 
because  of  the  Delaware  Counly  Onn- 
inunily  College  runners  being  inlerspers- 
cd  inlo  Ihc  Held. 

Gym  hours  posted 

The  gym  will  be  open  from  4  p.m. 
lo  10  p.m..  loday  Ihrough  Thursday. 
Ocl.  13  10  all  sludenls  who  have  proper 
sludenl  idciilillcalioii.  according  lo  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  R.  (■rcniiolli,  comdinalor  of  in- 
Iramural  alhlelics  and  College  aclivilies. 

Equipnieiil  will  be  available  for 
use.  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli.  The  wcighl 
ro(nn  will  also  be  open  during  Ihc  open 
gym  hours. 

In  case  of  rain,  ihc  gym  will  1101 
open  unlil  6  p.m..  Mrs.  l-'remiolli  said. 

Manager/lrainer  needed 
for  men's  basketball  team 

A  managcr-lraincr  posilioii  needs 
lo  be  filled  for  Ihe  men's  baskelball 
leam,  according  lo  Louis  M.  Mcnago, 
coach. 

Any  person  inlcresled  may  conlaci 
Coach  Mcnago  al  College  Exl.  417  or 
during  praclice  from  4  p.m.  lo  6:.30 
p.m.  Ihrcnighoul  nc\l  week  (week  of 
Ocl.  17). 


'^■y'tifmifafi 


Men's  basketball  try  outs  next  Monday 

Tryouls  for  Ihe  College's  men's  baskelball  leam  will  be  held  al  4  p.m.,  nexl 
Monday,  Del.  17  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym,  according  lo  Louis  M.  Menago,  baskelball 
coach. 

Any  sludenl  who  has  a  minimum  of  12  credils  may  parlicipale  in  ihe  inler- 
collegiale  program,  said  Mcnago.  Bolh  men  and  women  are  cligable.  added 
Mcnago. 

Priiclicc  will  begin  Ihe  day  of  iryouls  from  4  p.m.  10  6:30  p.m.  and  will  con- 
linue  Ihroughoul  Ihc  week. 

Any  persons  unable  lo  allend  Ihc  iryouls  may  lonlail  Mcii.ign  al  E\l   417 

Bull  Spinners  roll  high  team  game 


Ihc  Bull  Spinners  howled  a  high 
leam  game  in  Ihc  inlraimiral  bowling 
league  al  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245. 
Park  Ave.,  according  lo  records  provid- 
ed by  Ihc  lanes. 

Inlraimiral   bowling   resulls   fnnn 
Tuesday.  Ocl.  4  arc  as  follows: 
High  single  game 
Male:   David  A.  Bycrs.  acc(ninliiig 
sludenl  from  Milhni,  bowled  a  209. 

Kcmale:  Linda  S.  Shoup,  business 
manageinenl  sludenl  from  Elysburg 
bowled  a  164. 

High  series 
Male:     Frank  J,  Seber,  eleclrical 
conslruclion    sludenl    from    ScranUm, 


bowled  a  589. 

Female:  Miss  Shoup  bowled  a  431. 
High  leam  game 

Bull  Spinners  bowled  a  616  lo  lead 
Ihe  following  leams:  Gamhlcis,  Mclal 
Men.  The  Dew  Crew,  Briar  House, 
Alley  Cals,  Flinlslones,  and  Millon. 

High  leam  series  was  nol  available. 

Teams,  individuals,  males  and 
females  arc  slill  needed  for  Ihc  in- 
iramural  bowling  league  al  4  p.m.. 
Tuesdays.  Any  persons  inlcresled  in 
joining  may  c<nilacl  Pally  Barlhohnnew 
al  ABC  Bowling  Lanes.  1245  Park  Ave. 
al  326-2885. 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

By  Ptrr)  D.  PenI,.  SPOTLIGHT  Sporls  Kdilnr 


Homerun!  Triple!  Double!  .Single! 

Wilh  Ihe  slarl  of  Ihc  World  Series  coming  up,  a  few  fans  don'l  care  who  wins 
while  olhers  gel  all  worked  up  in  a  frenzy  when  Ihe  word,  baseball,  flies  Ihrough  Ihe 
air.  Making  sure  noi  In  disappoinl  anyone,  baseball's  world  championship  will  be 
decided  in  ihc  bcsi-i)l:sc\cii  scries  Ihis  week  conliiiuing  through  Ihe  beginning  of 
ncxi  week. 

Nol  knowing  Ihc  oulcorae  of  bolh  Ihe  National  and  American  League  cham- 
pionships, here  is  my  "guesslimalion"  on  Ihe  winner  of  Ihe  World  Series. 
■•  ■  »• 

Having  good  teams  in  bolh  leagues,  choosing  the  champion  will  not  be  an  easy 
task.  In  Ihe  National  League,  it's  the  Philadelphia  Phillies  matched  up  against  the 
Los  Angeles  Dodgers. 

To  most  everyone's  surprise,  Ihe  Phillies  didn't  choke  under  pressure  by  the 
Pittsburgh  Pirates  and  the  Dodgers  overcame  the  Atlanta  Braces,  who  eliminalcd 
them  last  year  in  the  National  League  West  Division. 

To  pit  the  Phillies  and  Dodgers  in  a  National  League  championship,  most  peo- 
ple would  think,  "Boy,  what  a  mismatch!"  This  statement  may  be  true  because  the 
Phillies  lost  11  of  12.regular  .season  games  to  the  Dodgers. 

Looking  at  those  statistics,  it  would  be  a  sure  bet  10  lake  the  Dodgers.  This  is 
where  I  disagree. 

Although  the  Phillies  have  had  trouble  wilh  the  Dodgers  this  season,  the 
regular  season  record  againsl  the  Dodgers  is  just  thai  -  regular  season.  Post- 
season play  is  a  whole  different  ball  game.  The  Phillies  will  represent  Ihe  National 
League  in  the  Scries. 

■»  m  »■ 

In  the  American  League,  it's  Ihe  Baltimore  Orioles  up  againsl  the  Chicago 
White  Sox. 

Proving  they  are  a  quality  baseball  leam  wilh  99  regular  season  wins  ihe 
White  Sox  made  shambles  of  the  American  League  West  Division.  Not  loo  far 
behind  with  98  regular  season  wins,  the  Orioles  ran  away  wilh  the  American  League 
East  Division  in  September,  the  last  month  of  the  season. 

This  American  League  championship  should  wind  up  going  the  full  five  games 
wilh  the  While  Sox  coming  out  on  top. 

In  Ihc  World  Series,  the  Phillies  with  talented  pitchers  Steve  Carlton  and  John 
Denny  and  wilh  power-hitler  Mike  Schmidt  will  outlast  the  While  Sox  with  pitcher 
Lamar  Hoyi  and  power-hitter  Greg  Luzinski  in  six  games. 

Although  these  predictions  aren't  scientinc  Ihe  outcome  this  week  will  prove  if 
I  am  righl  or  wrong. 


Golfers  split 
triangular  meet 

The  College  golf  team  splil'  a 
triangular  meel  wilh  a  15'/;  lo  2'/;  win 
over  Bucks  Counly  Communily  College 
and  a  12  10  6  loss  lo  Montg(nnery 
Counly  Community  College,  according 
10  records  provided  by  Harry  C. 
Spcchl.  coordinator  of  inicrcollegialc 
alhlelics. 

In  medaf  play.  Daniel  J.  McKcan, 
eleclrical  technology  sludenl  from 
Shohola.  led  the  team  by  shooting  a  73. 
■Scccnid  ini  ihc  leam  in  medal  play  was 
Brian  A.  McKce.  general  sludics  student 
from  Danville,  shooling  a  76. 
The  slals  in  Bucks  meel... 
Using  Ihe  nassua  system  againsl 
Bucks  County  Conununily  College, 
McKcan  beat  Ken  Slean.  2'/;-'/;;  Joseph 
E.  Simpsini,  dicsel  mechanics  sludenl 
from  Duboislown.  losl  lo  Dave  Umani, 
2-1;  McKee  beat  Scott  Hcndy,  3-0; 
Michael  A.  Spencer,  engineering  draf- 
ling  sludenl  from  St.  Marys,  beat 
Robert  Waimahan,  3-0;  James  S. 
Allison,  civil  technology  student  from 
Arcndtsvillc,  beat  John  Caslne.  3-0,  and 
Mich.iel  E.  Fry.  computer  .science  slu- 
denl from  South  Williamsporl.  beat 
John  Pemocguasl.  3-0. 
The  slals  in  Monlgoniery  meel... 
Through  the  same  scoring  system 
againsl  Montgomery  Counly  Communi- 
ly College.  McKcan  bcal  Scolt 
Hamblen,  3-0;  Simps(m  lost  to  Nick 
Sinnoil.-2-l;  McKce  losl  lo  Carl  Burns. 
2':-'.-;  Spencer  losl  lo  Guy  Greco, 
IVi-Vi;  Allison  losl  lo  Al  Scibcrlcich, 
2-1,  and  Fry  losl  lo  Mike  Gokei.  3-0. 
J'hc  worst  fiiiisli  Ihc  College  leam 
can  have  righi  now  is  a  lie  for  firsl  place 
wilh  Monigonicrv  ('(Uiiilv  (ominunilv 
College,  said  Spcchl. 

Flag  football  continues 
today,  tomorrow 

Intramural  flag  football  games  will 
conlinue  loday  and  tomorrow.  Games 
slarl  al  4  p.m.  wilh  the  last  game  star- 
ting al  7  p.m.,  according  10  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  inlraimiral 
alhlelics  and  College  activities. 

Schedules  may  be  picked  up  loday 
in  Ihc  intramural  athletics  and  College 
aclivilies  ofllcc  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

The  tournament  is  double  elimina- 
tion, added  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

PBL  drops  game  lo  faculty 

Student  members  of  Phi  Beta 
Lambda  (PBL)  dropped  a  Softball  game 
10  a  team  composed  of  Business  and 
Computer  Science  Division  faculty  m 
Sunday,  Ocl.  2.  according  lo  David  A. 
Haas,  computer  science  sludenl  from 
Williamsporl  and  club  president. 

The  faculty  won,  15-9. 

A  rematch  is  lenlalivcly  scheduled 
lor  2  p.m.  ihis  Sunday.  Ha.is  said. 


America  spends  more  than  $125 
billion  a  year  on  sneakers. 


William  T.  Sherman  was  a  Union 
general  during  the  Civil  War.  In 
November  1864.  he  burned  most  of 
Atlanta  10  Ihc  ground. 


Red  tape  is  a  derogatory  term  used 
lo  describe  the  inefficiencv  of  govern- 
ment or  business. 


The  Bible  menlimis  sail  more  ihan 
.30  limes. 


FOR  SALE:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triump  Splltirc.  Bar  only  used 
aboul  5  monlhs;  complele  wilh  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKE  ME  AN 
OFFER!!  Call  Exl.  221,  ask  for  Tom. 


Miindiy,  Oct.  10.  1983        SPOTLIGHT       7 


PBL  hayride  to  be  Saturday 

A  hayride  for  all  Phi  Bcia  Lambda 
(PBL)  members  is  scheduled  for  ihis 
Salurday  after  ihc  Mummers'  Parade, 
according  lo  David  A.  Haas,  compuler 
science  sludcnl  from  Willianisporl  and 
PBL  president. 

The  hayride  will  lake  place  in  Ihc 
Nippenose  Valley  area.  All  PBL 
members  may  sign  up  in  Room  i}}. 
Academic  Ccnler,  said  Haas. 

Variety  of  skill 
learning  options 
at  aviation  campus 

The  mighly  Convair  and  Ihc  Avco 
Lyccmiing  arc  jusi  Iwo  of  Ihe  airplanes 
Ihc  College  avialion  sludcnls  work  on  al 
Ihc  avialion  sedion  al  the  Monloursvillc 
airporl. 

The  avialion  scclion  is  a 
mechanical,  non-piloi  unil  where 
sludcnls  learn  ihc  basics. 

There  arc  many  shops  included  in 
Ihc  dcparlmcnl.  Simie  of  Ihcm  arc  Ihe 
shcci  mclal  shop,  where  Ihc  planes' 
siruclure,  inside  and  oul,  are  repaired; 
Ihc  airframe  shop,  where  Ihe  bodies  of 
Ihc  airplanes  arc  fixed  and  painlcd;  and 
Ihc  engine  repair  shop,  where  engines 
from  six-cylinders  (in  Ihc  Avco  Lycom- 
ing planes)  lo  28  cylinders  simielimcs 
seen  in  Ihc  Convair  radial  (round) 
engines. 

There  are  aboul  46  different  trades 
for  the  students  to  dioosc.from  in  the 
field. 

Sludcnls  may  take  exams  given  by 
the  Federal  Aviation  Agency  thai  are 
written,  oral,  and  practical  lo  receive  a 
mechanic's  ccrlificale. 

Although  most  of  the  airplanes  arc 
College  owned,  ihey  do  accept  "live 
work,"  which  is  work  taken  fnnn  peo- 
ple oulsidc  Ihe  College,  .said  high  school 
inslruclor  James  Little. 

Printer  using  microfilm, 
microfiche  available 
for  stu(Jents,  others 

The  Learning  Resources  Ccnler  has 
recently  obtained  a  Can(nt  Canorama 
Printer  .180  for  sludcnl,  faculty  and  slaff 
use,  according  lo  Dr.  Charles  J.  Cunn- 
ing, a.ssocialc  dean  of  instructional 
resources. 

This  coin-opcraled  machine  can  be 
used  free  of  charge  as  a  reader,  or  al  a 
cosi  of  10  ccnis  for  each  copy  that  is 
printed. 

The  Can(ni  Canorama  Prinlcr  380 
uses  microtllin  (a  reel  of  conlracled 
nim)  or  microfiche  (a  card  of 
niicrolilm),  both  which  arc  available  in 
Ihc  Library. 

Because  it  is  easier  lo  store  llie 
microfilm  and  microl"ichc  than  bound 
periodicals,  the  College  will  .soon  be 
purchasing  approxiniaicly  $2,000  worlh 
of  microlllm  of  back  periodicals,  accor- 
ding lo  Dr.  Cunning. 

"I  also  aniiicipalc  that  ihe  North 
Campus  will  be  gelling  a  machine  such 
as  this  -  probably  within  the  nest  two 
weeks,"  added  Dr.  Cunninu. 


Role  of  W.A.C.C.  Foundation  reviewed;  gifts 
to  College  valued  at  $612,800  in  1982-83  year 


The  Willianisporl  Area  Communi- 
ty College,  Inc.  is  a  non-profit,  lax- 
excmpl  organization  governed  by  a 
board  of  dircclors  comprised  of  com- 
nuiniiy  leaders  from  the  areas  served  by 
Ihe  College. 

Although  fiscally  and  legally  in- 
dcpendenl,  Ihe  organizational  body,  in- 
corporated in  1981,  is  dedicated  to  Ihc 
enrichineni  and  promotion  of  Ihe  Col- 
lege through  Ihe  procurement  of  special 
instructional  equipnieni,  and  other 
devices  designed  lo  sirengllien  and  ex- 
pand curriculum  offerings  at  Ihe  Col- 
lege. 

The  organization  also  strives  to 

recognize    special     achievements    of 

sludcnls  and  slaff,  and  mainlains  efforts 

10  provide  sludcnls  wilh  financial  aid. 

Packer  Foundalion  major  doiKir 

According  to  a  news  release  issued 
by  Ihe  College,  Ihe  organization  assisted 
in  a  acquislion  of  gifts,  donations,  cor- 
porate cinilribuliinis,  individual  and 
corporate  gill  donali(nis  valued  al 
$612,800  during  Ihe  1982-83  fiscal  year. 

Among  major  contributors  were 
Ihe  Packer  Foundation  of  Wellsboro, 
who  gave  $25,000  lo  Ihe  College  for  its 
Norlh  Campus  Projecl  and  Ihe 
Wellsboro  School  DistricI,  who  made  a 
gift  of  the  former  Charleston  Elemen- 
tary School  lo  Ihe  College  for  use  as  a 
campus.  The  appraisal  value  of  the  lat- 
ter building  was  listed  al  $234,800,  ac- 
cording lo  information  provided  in  Ihe 
news  release. 

'SignificaiK  savings'  realized 

Other  gifts  received  by  Ihe  College 
included  a  varicly  of  training  equipment 
valued  al  $48,000  from  Ihc  defunct 
Tioga  Counly  Area  Vocational 
Technical  School  alWhilneyville.  llciiis 
received  include  ga.solinc  engines,  draf- 
ting tables,  band  saws,  arc 
wclders/boolhs  and  engine  analyzers. 

Additional  gifts  include  four 
IO-540-KIA5  aircraft  engines  lo  ihe 
Transporlalion  Technologies  Division, 
from  Avco  Corp.,  Lycoming  Division, 
Willianisporl.  The  engines  will  be  u.scd 
in  Ihc  instruction  of  avialion  students. 
It  would  have  purportedly  cost  the  Col- 
lege $8,500  apiece  lo  purcha.se  ihe 
engines  new. 

F&H  students  resume 
catering  schedule 

Sludcnls  in  the  food  and  hospitality 
managcmcnl  program  have  resumed 
their  "hectic"  .schedule  both  on  and  olT 
campus,  according  lo  Mrs.  Ann  E. 
Miglio,  faculty  adviser  and  program  in- 
slruclor. 

Off-campus  catering  events  which 
occurred  earlier  ihis  semester  include 
wedding  anniversaries,  open  h(nisc 
reccplions,  and  bar  milzvahs.  On-canip- 
pus  aclivilies  catered  included  making 
refreshmenis  on  .Sept.  20  for  ihe  College 
yearbook  .seminar. 


Absolute  zero  is  Ihe  lowest 
llieoreiical  temperature  a  gas  can  reach. 
This     lemperalurc     is     -459.67     F. 


A  significani  "savings"  was  realiz- 
ed by  Ihe  College  when  Brush  Division, 
Forgflo,  Inc.,  Sunbury,  gave  a  Moog 
8.3-1000  Hydra  Point  numerically  con- 
trolled three-axis  machine  lo  Ihe  Col- 
lege. The  machine  will  be  used  by  Ihc 
Engineering  and  Design  Technologies 
Division  for  instruction  in  numerically 
ccmtrollcd  multi-axis  drilling  and  mill- 
ing sel-up,  operation  and  maintenance. 

Altiirney  makes  gifl  possible 

This  gift  from  Forgfto  was  made 
possible  by  ihe  foundalimi  board  of 
directors'  member,  George  V.  Cohen,  a 
Williamsporl  atloriiey,  Ihe  news  release 
niucd. 

Further,  Ihe  College  received  a  1983 
Caprice  Classic  automobile  valued  al 
$12,604  from  John  Powell  Chevrolet. 
Williamsporl,  lo  aid  student  inslruclion 
in  servicing  and  repair. 

Similarily,  Mack  Trucks,  Inc., 
Paris  Division,  Bridgewaler,  N.J. 
dcnialcd  one  Mack  V8  dicsel  engine  and 
one  maxi-lorque  transmission  lo  be 
used  in  the  inslrucliini  of  dicsel 
mechanics  at  Ihe  College. 

Additionally,  the  College  received 
an  Atari  800  Microcomputer  from 
Compuler  Mail  Order,  Inc., 
Williamsporl.  The  instrument  will  be 
implemented  in  ihe  inslruclion  of  com- 
puler science  sludcnls.  Savings  lo  Ihe 
College  was  fixed  al  $450. 

Also  received  by  the  College  were 
several  ilcms  for  inslrucling  students  in 
engine  service,  starter  overhaul,  and  ser- 
vicing cylinder  heads,  gasket  sets,  gears, 
pislons,  and  connecting  rods  were 
donated  by  Carl  Blank  of  Sewell,  N.J. 

Food/hospitality 
students  planning 
two  field  trips 

Food  and  hospitality  management 
sludcnls  are  planning  Iwo  field  trips  Ihis 
Thursday  lo  further  learning  ex- 
periences in  food  purchasing. 

Sec(nid-ycar  students  will  be  travel- 
ing 10  Ihe  Hamniondsport,  N.Y.  area  lo 
study  selection  and  produclimi  of  wines 
al  a  local  winery. 

They  will  akso  slop  in  Ihc  Elmira, 
N.Y.  area  lo  lour  Ihe  Flickcnger 
wholesale  operalion  which  deals  in  food 
and  produce  supplies. 

Their  last  slop  will  be  al  Pierce's 
Five-Star  Reslauranl. 

Fir.sl-ycar  sludcnls  will  go  on  a 
separate  excursion  lo  Sunbury  lo  visit  a 
Weis  food  service  distribution  facility. 
There,  Ihey  will  view  milk  and  ice  cream 
processing  as  well  as  the  receiving  and 
ordering  of  produce. 

There  will  be  a  lunch  buffet  al 
Country  Cupboard  Reslauranl  in 
Lcwisburg  cmnbined  wilh  a  lour  of  the 
premises  and  a  lecture  on  restaurant 
management  by  Ihe  owner,  Dan  Baylor. 


Conslellalimis  arc  groups  of  stars  that 
form  pictures. 


John  Deere  Company,  Eastern 
Regional  Headquarters,  Maryland,  pro- 
vided a  number  of  gifts  lo  Ihe  Earth 
Science  Division,  including  a  Detroit 
Allison  transmission  Model  TT222  1-1 
from  a  John  Deere  544  rubber  lire 
front-end  loader.  This  item  will  be  used 
specifically  lo  train  studenis  in  the 
maintenance  and  repair  of  power  shift 
transmissions. 

Donadcm  for  S40  program 

The  company  also  donated  a  619 
cubic  inch  turbo  dicsel  engine  wilh  fuel 
injcdion  system,  wilh  a  flywheel  and 
starter  from  a  Model  86.30  John  Deere 
Iraclor.  The  engine  will  be  used  in  Ihe 
inslruclion  in  Ihe  service  and  operalimi 
of  heavy  equipment  program. 

The  College  also  received  gifts  of 
books  from  several  area  individuals. 
Ewing  Mueslcr,  Eldred  St., 
Williamsporl,  donated  69  books.  A  gift 
of  200  lo  .300  volumes  was  given  to  Ihe 
College  by  Margaret  MacMullan,  Se- 
cond Ave.,  Williamsporl,  from  the 
Hugh  MacMullan  Estate. 

Hugh  MacMullen  remembered 

Subjects  included  in  the  Mac- 
Mullan gift  reportedly  range  from  art 
and  literature,  lo  Hollywood  films. 
Most  of  Ihe  books  will  be  incorporated 
into  Ihc  regular  Learning  Resources 
Ccnler  Collection.  Fiflcen  lo  20  of  Ihe 
"rare,  signed,  or  autographed  lilies" 
were  placed  in  Special  Collections,  ac- 
cording 10  information  provided  in  the 
news  rclea.se. 

The  Foundation  also  provided  Ihe 
College's  Business  and  Computer 
Science  Division  wilh  nearly  $2,000, 
procured  through  various  sources,  for 
the  purchase  of  equipmenl.  Among  Ihe 
ilcms  reportedly  purchased  wilh  the 
amouni  were  Iwo  13-inch  color 
monitors,  Iwo  Vertex  monitor  cables 
and  Iwo  Atari  Disk  Drives.  Purchase 
value  was  lislcd  as  $1949. 

Discount  provided 

More  recently,  according  to  infor- 
malion  provided  by  the  foundation's  of- 
fice. Room  209,  Academic  Center,  the 
College  has  obtained  a  20  pcrccnl  dis- 
count on  materials  from  Beaverlown 
Block  Co.,  Beaverlown,  and  a  $500 
reduction  on  sleel  joists  and  beams  ac- 
quired from  Ceco  Corp.,  New  Colum- 
bia. 

The  foundation  also  noted  services 
received  from  John  E.  Hoffman,  a 
Williamsporl  architect.  The  foundation 
listed  the  value  of  the  services  at  $8,846. 
Frederick  T.  Gilmour  is  executive 
director  of  the  foundation  program  al 
the  College. 

HELP  WANTED 

Individual  wilh  eleclrical 
background  lo  learn  a  unique  process 
conlrol  system.  This  position  requires 
Ihe  ability  lo  make  accurate 
judgements  from  process  readings, 
Forkiift  operalor  experience  necessary. 
Pay  depending  on  experience.  Call 
(717)  769-6488.  ladvi.l 


8       SPOTLIGHT        Mnndj).  Oct.  10.  1983 


Student  Transition 
Committee  to  meet 
with  College  divisions 


Bulletin  Board 


The  Sludcnl  Giivcrnmcnl  Associa- 
lion  Transilion  Commillcc  (STC)  will 
mcel  with  licvcral  of  Ihc  College'.';  divi- 
sions ihis  week  lo  gel  suggestions  and 
answer  quesllons  perlaining  lo  sludcnl 
aclivilics. 

Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinalor  of  inlrainural  sports  and  College 
activities,  said  Ihc  STC  will  mcci  with 
the  following  divisions:  Conslruclioii 
Technology,  3:30  p.m.,  Tuesday; 
Transporlalion    Technology,    8    p.m. 


Tuesday,  and  High  Technology.  3  p.m., 
Thursday.  All  mcclings  will  be  held  in 
ihc  Academic  Ccnicr  Aiidilorium. 

STC  will  al.so  mcel  with  the  Earlh 
Science  Division,  11:30  a.m.,  Tuesday, 
in  Ihc  Earlh  Science  Building,  staled 
Mrs.  Frcmiiitli. 

All  the  mcclings  arc  open  lo  ihc 
division  directors  and  students,  noted 
Mrs.  Frcmiotli. 


Instructional  Media  Center  available 
to  aid  faculty  in  the  teaching  process 


The  Inslructiiiiial  Media  Ccnicr, 
which  is  located  on  the  second  floor  of 
the  Learning  Resources  Ccnicr  is  a  sec- 
tion whose  primary  function  is  to  aid 
the  faculty  in  the  teaching  process. 

The  Media  Ccnicr  provides  six 
specific  services  In  Ihc  faculty.  These 
servcics  fall  into  one  of  Ihc  following 
categories:  photography,  graphics, 
audio,  video,  software  and  equipment. 

Photography  includes  slide  and 
print  processing  and  duplication. 

Graphics  includes  the  illustration 
and  design  of  overhead  transparencies, 
cnlargtmcnl  and  reduction  ol  artwork 
and  copy,  and  ihc  supply  of  films, 
frames,  pens  and  wax  pencils. 

Audio  deals  with  casscltc  duplica- 
tion, rcel-to-reel/disc  to  cassette 
duplication,  slide-tape  programs  and 
pulsing  (automatic  advancement  of 
.slides). 

Video  contains  b.isic  television  pro- 
duction, which  includes  use  of  the  televi- 
sion studio. 

Software  includes  Ihc  acquisition  of 
free  loan  and  rental  of  16mm  films, 
videotapes,  35mm  slides  and  filmstrips. 

Equipment  encompasses  the  ac- 
quisition, distribution  and  repair  of  all 
equipment. 


Occasionally,  ihc  Media  Center 
sponsors  a  workshop  for  the  faculty 
featuring  one  of  these  .services. 

Although  the  Media  Ccnicr  is 
designed  primarily  for  faculty,  students 
may  use  the  media  software  and  equip- 
ment which  is  owned  by  the  College  for 
special  classroom  presentations,  >iccor- 
ding  to  A.  Neale  Winner,  coordinator 
of  instructional  media. 

Any  sludcnl  desiring  to  u.sc  Ihc 
equipment  and/or  software  must  com- 
plete a  request  form  signed  by  his  in- 
structor. ap|iroving  the  use  of  the  re- 
quested itejiis.  Forms  arc  available  in 
Ihc  Media  Center. 

Complcled  forms  must  be  submil- 
Icd  lo  the  Media  Center  at  least  three 
weeks  in  advance  of  Ihc  desired  presen- 
tation date. 

Students  may  then  pick  up  the  re- 
quested materials  one  day  prior  to  the 
show  dale,  or  make  other  arrangments 
lo  pick  up  the  materials. 

These  materials  must  be  returned 
Ihc  following  day,  except  in  ihc  case  of 
Fridays,  when  they  must  be  returned  the 
same  day. 

The  students  must  also  assume  all 
responsibility  for  Ihc  borrowed 
ntatcrials. 


For  lite  »'«■*  iij Mimlav.  Oil.  10  thiiiugli  Siiiidai:  Oil.  16 

MEETINGS 

Cnmpuler  Science  Club...  3:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Room  321, 
Academic  Center. 

Circle  K  Club...  II  a.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Room  327,  Academic  Center. 
SPORTS 

Cross  counlry...  .igainsi  Penn  Slate  University's  Wilkcs-Barre  Campus,  3:30 
p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  away.  , 

Golf...  EPCCAC  Tournament,  II  a.m.,  ihis  Wednesday,  Oct.  12,  at  Bucks 
Counly  Community  College. 

Table  tennis  meets  every  Monday 

Inlramural  lablc  tennis  will  held  at  7  p.m.,  every  Monday  in  the  Bardo  Gym, 
according  lo  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  inlramural  athletics  and 
College  aclivilics. 

Equipment  will  be  provided  or  students  may  bring  their  own,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli. 

"It  is  for  fun  but  there  is  competitive  spirit,"  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Any  persons  interested  (either  individual  or  team)  may  sign  up  at  ihc  in- 
lramural alhlclics  and  College  aclivilics  office  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  Mrs.  Fremiolli 
said.  If  iherc  is  enough  interest,  "cxiramural  activities"  with  other  schools  will  be 
scheduled,  added  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Proper  idcniincaiion  must  be  prescnl  before  being  admitted  into  the  Bardo 
Gym,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiotli. 

Spnrls...  See  page  6 

Soccer  play  is  Wednesday  and  Thursday 

Intraimiral  soccer  will  be  played  I'lom  4  p.m.  lo  6  p.m.,  ihis  Wednesday  and 
Ihis  Thursday  on  the  Held  behind  the  Adniinislralion  Building,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Frcmiotli,  coordinator  of  inlramural  alhlclics  and  College  aclivilics. 

If  it  rains,  soccer  will  be  held  in  Ihc  Bardo  Gym  and  Ihcrcwill  be  no  open  gym 
during  those  limes,  said  Mrs.  Frcntiolti.  She  added  sludcnl  idcnlificalion  must  be 
presented  lo  gei  in  the  gym. 

On  Wednesday,  live  rosters  will  be  comprised  inio  at  Icasi  four  complcic 
teams.  On  Thursday,  ihc  Icanis  will  conipclc  m  a  linirnainciil,  Mrs.  Fremiolli  said. 

Any  pcrson.s  with  qucstion.s  may  contact  Mrs.  Fremiolli  in  the  intramural 
alhlclics  and  Collcw  aclivilics  office  in  llie  Bardo  Gvni  or  bv  Iclcphonim;  Collccc 
Fsl.  269. 

Any  persons  inicresled  in  inlramural  soccer  may  sign  up  until  this  Wednesday 
in  ihc  inlrainural  alhlclics  and  Collecc  alhlclics  office  in  Bardo  Gvm. 


The  office  hours  for  Ihc  Slu 
dent  GovernmenI  Assiiclalion 
(SGA)  have  been  posted  on  the 
bullelln  board  of  the  SGA  office. 
Room  202,  Academic  Center,  ac- 
cordinRlo  Miss  Jill  H.  Hampton, 
spokesperson  for  Ihe  SGA  Tran- 
sition Commillee. 


SGA  office  hours  posted 

The  staff  and  hours  are  as 
loHows:  Rulh  Fischer,  8  lo  9:30 
a.m.,  Tuesdays;  Jill  Hampton, 
10:30  a.m.  lo  noon,  Tuesdays 
and  Thursdays,  and  Tom  Brady, 
9  lo  II  a.m.,  Tuesdays,  10  lo  11 
a.m.,  Wednesdays,  and  9:30  lo 
II  a.m.,  Thursdays. 


Bloodmobile 

9  9  9CilnllllllCfl /null  Pane  I 

Christopher  Hospital  in  Philadelphia. 
Again,  Ihc  College's  forerunner,  the 
Williamsporl  Techncial  Inslilulc,  pro- 
vided most  of  the  blood  for  Ihe  opera- 
lion,  she  said. 

SGA  sponsors  visit 

At  thai  lime,  she  explained,  a  per- 
son had  to  "replace"  the  blood  used  in 
scheduled  operations  at  a  Iwo-to-onc 
ratio.  "Simply,"  she  said,  "if  an 
operali(ni  required  .30  pints  of  blood, 
arrangements  had  lo  be  made  lo  deposit 
60  pints  in  a  local  blood  bank.  Other- 
wise, you  had  lo  pay  for  Ihe  blood." 
Mrs.  Reiff  said  she  was  "very  grateful" 
to  Ihc  College  for  the  efforts  in  her 
behalf. 

The  upcoming  Bloodnmbile  visit  is 
spcmsorcd  by  Ihc  Sludcnl  Ciovernmcnt 
Associaiion  Transiiicni  Connnillcc. 


Fall  Event  cancelled 

Fall  Evenis  and  an  ice  cream 
festival  scheduled  for  Ihis  week 
have  been  cancelled,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  inlramural  sports  and 
College  activities. 


PLEASANT   FURNISHED   ROOMS 
bv  Ihe  month  for  female  students. 
Walk  lo  754  W.  Third  Si.  or  CALL: 
326-4507. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


ilOO  W.  Third  St.,  Williamsporl 
tSat  to  Hlump  Academic  Center! 
PHONE  AHEAD:   322-1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'HI  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


FOR  SALE 

8  ft,,  7  in.  pickup  truck  camper 
with  4  ft.  cab  overhang.  Sleeps  4. 
Lights  powered  by  D.C.  or  120  voll 
current  or  L.P.  gas.  L.P.,  3-burner 
stove  with  oven.  Self  ctmlained  waler 
lank  and  ample  storage.  Camper  jacks 
and  lie  downs  Included.  Excellent  for 
lamilv  camping  or  hunting. ..$450. 
CALL  433-4552 


HALLOWEEN 
COSTUME  BASH 

Bardo  Gym 

October  26  -  8-11  PM 

Dance  to: 
ADDISON  AVE. 

WEAR  A  COSTUME! 
$2.00  at  door 

Sponsored  by 
(Artists  Unlimited) 


AD 


IFFERENT  V  lEW 


Lois  of  passers-by  have  walched  (he  progress  on  the  new 
Cen(er  for  Lifelong  Education  from  the  Susquehanna 
Street  side...  But  SPOTLIGHT  photographer  Lori  M. 
Lane  decided  to  take  a  different  view:  This  shot  shows  the 
look  of  the  building  "on  the  inside"  --  the  view  from 
what  eventually  will  be  a  connecting  courtyard  between 
existing  buildings  and  the  new  building. 


ei?BlP[ilJBCJtf 


Monday.  Ocl.  17,  1983 

Vol,  19,  No.  8 

8  Pages 

Williamsporl  Area  Communily  College 

Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


SGA  planning 
two  NYC  trips 
for  December 

Two  New  York  City  trips  are  being 
sponsored  by  the  Student  Government 
B- Association  (SG/^,  according  to  Mrs. 
Jo  Ann  R.  Frcmiolli,  ciiordinalor  of  in- 
tramural atlilclics  and  College  activities. 

The  trips  will  be  on  Saturday, 
Dec. 3  and  10,  and  will  cost  $18  for 
students,  staff,  faculty  and  alumni. 
General  fee  is  $20.  This  fee  covers 
transportation  only,  said  Mrs.  Fremiot- 
ti. 

During  both  trips,  participants  are 
"free  to  do  as  they  please,"  Mrs. 
Frcmiotti  said.  Activities  possible,  of 
course,  include  live  plays,  shopping, 
sightseeing,  and  the  Radio  City  Music 
Hall's  Christmas  "celebration". 

A  charter  bus  will  leave  the  Learn- 
■■■  Pleme  Turn  lo  Page  8 

No  hunting  allowed 
on  Allenwood  campus 

This  is  just  a  reminder  to  all 
students  and  faculty  that  hunting  is  not 
allowed  on  College  property.  This  is 
particularly  in  reference  to  the  Earth 
Science  Campus  in  Allenwood.  Fur- 
thermore, no  firearms  are  permitted  on 
the  Earth  Science  Campus  due  to  Ihc 
proximity  of  the  Allenwood  Federal 
Prison. 


Registration  for  spring  begins:     Phi  Beta  Lambda 
meet  with  advisers  before  Nov.  4 


Returning  students  registering  for 
Ihc  spring  semester  should  meet  with 
their  advLscrs  before  Friday,  Nov  4,  ac- 
cording to  Ms,  Connie  R.  KeLscy,  a.ssis- 
lanl  registrar,  Studem  Records  Office: 
"Advisers  will  have  programs  of  courses 
and  registration  sheets  available,"  she 
said. 

Computer  terminals  for  scheduling 
will  be  set  up  Monday,  Nov.  7  to  Thurs- 
day, Nov.  10.  To  avoid  late 
regislratioin    all    students    should    be 


scheduled  during  that  week,  said  Ms. 
Kelsey. 

On-line  scheduling  will  be  accor- 
ding to  credits,  added  Ms.  Kelsey. 

Students  with  questions  about  om-Imic 
scheduling  can  stop  at  ihc  Records  01- 
ficc  for  further  information. 

She  also  .said  that  "students  who 
are  graduating  or  not  returning  to  the 
College,  should  check  with  their  ad- 
visers to  complete  all  necessary  paper 
work." 


SGA  to  meet  today  with  students 
in  Humanities,  Communication  Arts 

Broadcasting,  journalism,  advertising  arts,  graphic  arts, 
general  and  individual  studies  students  are  "encouraged"  lo  attend 
a  meeting  with  llie  Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  for 
students  in  tlie  Humanities  and  Communication  Arts  Division,  ac- 
cording to  Thomas  P,  Brady,  executive  SGA  committee  represen- 
tative. 

The  meeting  will  be  held  at  3  p,m.  today  in  the  Academic 
Center  Auditorium. 

The  purpose  of  this  meeting  is  to  exchange  ideas  and  get  sug- 
gestions and  input.  "We  don't  know  what  lo  do  unless  people 
come  and  lell  us,"  Brady  said. 

Brady  stressed  that  studeni  input  is  very  important  for  the 
SGA  lo  operate. 


Many  students  talk  to  representatives  on  Transfer  Day 


Many  students  took  advantage  of 
Transfer  Day,  which  was  held  from  l;30 
to  4  p.m.  last  Wednesday  on  the  first 
floor  of  the  Academic  Center. 

Admission  representatives  attended 
from  26  Pennsylvania  colleges,  talked 
about  their  respective  institutions,  op- 
portunities of  transferring,  specific  cur- 
riculums  and  transferriiiii  policies  lo 


those  studcnis  who  inquired. 

Each  institution  provided  catalogs, 
information  request  cards,  applications, 
pamphlets  or  other  printed  matter  of 
some  sort  lo  students'. 

The  26  colleges  which  were 
represented  were  Allentown  College  of 
St.  Frances  de  Sales,  Center  Valley; 
Bloomsburg    University,    Bloomsburg; 


Clarion  University  of  Pennsylvania, 
Clarion;  Delaware  Valley  College, 
Doylestown;  Elizabethtown  College, 
Elizabethtown;  Gwynedd-Mercy  Col- 
lege, Gwynedd  Valley;  Indiana  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania,  Indiana;  King's 
College,  Wilkes-Barre;  Lebanon  Valley 
Communilv  College,  Annvillc;  Lehigh 
■■■  Please  mm  lo  Page  8 


wins  another  one: 
This  is  No.  8! 

Phi  Beta  Lambda,  (PBL),  won  first  I 

prize  for  its  float  at  this  year's  Mum-  | 

mcrs'  Day  Parade.  arcorillTIJ  Tir^SiiT 
VV.  (l.iWlLilcr,  .issisiani  prolessor  of 
business  ,Hid  iidMscr  i(}  the  organiza- 
tion. 

The  theme  of  the  float  was  "Wit- 
ches' Brew,  The  float  came  in  first  in 
the  unique  and  miscellaneous  category. 

This  is  the  cigth  con.sccutivc  year 
thai  the  PBL  float  has  been  a  prize  win- 
ner; in  seven  of  those  eight  years,  the 
floal  has  received  a  first  place  award, 
said  Goldfedcr. 

Members  of  the  commillec  who  , 

helped  with  ihe  preparalion  of  the  float 

■■■  Please  Turn  in  Page  8  \ 

Bloodmobile  visits 
in  gym  this  week 

The  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  will  be 
in  the  Bardo  Gym  from  9:45  a.m.  to 
3:45  p.m.,  this  Tuesday  and  Thursday, 
according  to  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Frcmiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

This  visit's  goal  is  550  pints  of 
blood.  For  the  past  two  years,  the  goal 
has  not  been  met,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiotti. 

Last  semester,  blood  that  was 
received  from  donors  was  actually  used 
that  same  morning  at  a  hospital  in 
Wilkcs-Barre. 

"So  there  is  definitely,  a  need," 
said  Mrs.  Frcmiotti. 

First-lime  donors  will  receive  a 
donor's  card,  be  told  what  their  blood 
type  is,  and  receive  a  snack,  said  Mrs. 
I^remiotti. 

"We  have  a  lot  of  first-time  donors 
who  feel  good  afler  donating,"  she  add- 
ed. 


SPOTLIGHT       Mrindav.  Oil.  24.  IM3 


YWCA  holds  sessions  to  fingerprint  children 


...in  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

"Dragnet"  -  Eat  your  tieart  out!  Ttiere's  now  a  group  located  in 
Williamsport.  at  tfie  Young  Women's  Cnrislian  Association,  now  equipped  to 
fingerprint  children.  No,  it's  not  because  ttiey  have  been  bad  little  boys  and  girls. 
Instead,  it's  lor  their  protection  -  so  they  may  be  identified  in  the  case  that  the 
child  is  kidnapped,  becomes  lost  or  becomes  the  victim  of  foul  play  ay 

It  should  be  pointed  out  that  a  similar  program  was  operated  by  The 
Williamsporl  Hospital 

With  these  programs  -  which  are  new  to  the  area  -  parents  may  have  their 
children  fingerprinted  in  case  some  tragedy  should  befall  them. 


Police,  then,  can  check  their  records  and  see  if  the  prints  match  any  they 
have    The  parents  then  can  be  nolified  about  the  fate  of  their  child. 

It  isn't  a  very  pleasant  subject  to  discuss,  but  it  does  happen.  Nearly  5,000i 
children  around  the  country  are  found  dead  each  year,  without  any  source  of 
identification  The  fingerprinting  process  can  be  effective  in  decreasing  the 
number  that  are  never  identified. 


Mrs  Bette  Reynolds,  program  director  of  the  YWCA  and  head  of  this  project 
"    "    '-'    "    ''  =3"^  "^a"^e'""s"'ngetprinling  session  held  a  couple  of  weeks  ago  was  very 

For  instance,  should  a  body  be  discovered,  the  fingerprints  are  sent  through  a    successful  -  with  72  children  being  fingerprinted     The  next  session  has  about 
central  computer  (known  as  the  NCIC  computer).  The  fingerprints  are  transferred     1 20  children  registered  in  if  and  more  are  expected 

from  the  machine  and  sent  all  over  the  country  to  police  stations  enrolled  in  this  Although  this  does  not  offer  a  solution  to  the  deaths  of  children  every  vear    I 

ID  program.  can  at  least  comfort  the  parents  to  know  the  fate  of  their  loved  ones. 


Book  helps  with 
writing  techniques 

reviews  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 

Having  trouble  with  footnotes,  bibliographies, 
punctuation,  sentence  or  paragraph  structure  or 
just  writing  in  general? 

If  so.  this  book  is  for  you,  Barrel  &  Stubb's 
Praclical  Guide  lo  Wriling.  This  book  covers  all 
aspects  of  wriling,  and  it  very  easy  to  understand 
II  1. 1  (I  II  II 
The  book  begins  with  choosing  subject  mat- 
ter, forming  a  thesis,  brain  storming,  and  complete 
paragraphing 

Once  the  student  has  learned  about  the 
paragraph  it  can  help  him  or  her  with  outlining  and 
wriling  longer  papers  II  covers  punctuation,  run- 
ons,  fragments,  inlroduclions.  and  conclusions.  It 
is  a  complete  book  on  writing. 
LI  n  ri  n  ( i 
The  paper  will  not  write  itself  nor  does  the 
book  lurn  a  student  inio  another  Poe,  Thoreau,  or 
Shakespeare  Bui  with  some  efforl  on  the  part  of 
the  sludenl  the  book  can  help  improve  one's 
writing  style  Barnet  &  Slubb's  Practical  Guide  lo 
Wriling  is  available  upon  request  in  the  College 
Library, 


Plant  holds  solo  career 

after  'Led  Zeppelin' 

says  reviewer  Robert  W.  Minier 

Roberl  Plant's  resurrection  from  Led  Zeppelin 
has  launched  his  solo  career  with  his  new  album. 
The  Principle  of  Momenls. 

Planl's  band  is  sharp  and  crisp,  but  never 
overwhelming  The  band  reads  like  a  who's  who 
of  rock:  Phil  Collins  on  drums,  Robbie  Blunt  on 
guitar,  Jeff  Woodroffe  on  keyboards  plus  bassist 
Paul  Ivlarlinez 

The  "sixth"  man  is  the  super  session  musi- 
cian Bob  (Foreigner)  fvlayo    What  a  perfect  mix 

Acknowledged  as  one  of  Ihe  finest  singers  in 
the  world  -  and  il  is  evident  -  Plant's  strong  and 
piercing  voice  booms  oul  with  an  energy  and  wat- 
tage Ihal  would  be  spell-binding  in  person. 

II      M      M      II      11 

"In  Ihe  l^odd,"  is  a  soft,  melodic  rocker  from 
his  current  album  The  Principle  of  Momenfs.  This 
album  can  be  found  on  Ihe  Allanlic  label  and  Ihe 
record  price  is  about  $9. 

Rockers  of  the  future  will_  owe  this  man  a 
great  deal  for  honety  of  performance  and  artistic 
integrity  unequalled  in  pop  music  today. 


'Goodnight  Beantown' 

displays  sticky  situations 

of  news  people 

says  reviewer  Tracey  S.  Willette 

Among  Ihe  new  lelelvision  shows  is  "Good- 
night Beantown"  which  is  on  CBS  Sunday  nights 
at  9:30.  This  comedy  stars  Bill  Bixby  and  Ivlariette 
Hartley. 

Bixby  plays  Matt.  Ihe  news  anchorman  for  a 
Boston  news  station  Hartley  porlrays  Jennie, a  i 
co-anchorperson  for  Ihe  same  station  Whereas 
Bixby  reports  the  news  straight,  Harlley  is  the  peo- 
ple's champion  -  always  subtly  expressing  her 
opinion  To  make  mailers  worse.  Matt  and  Jennie 
live  in  the  same  house 

In  trying  to  defend  Ihe  public,  Jennie  often 
gets  herself  into  situations  that  become  a  bit 
sticky.  Luckily.  Malt  is  always  there  to  help  her 
out. 

Another  bnght  spot  in  the  program  is  Frank 
(Jim     Staahl),     ihe     sportscasler  Frank     is 

chauvinistic,    macho,    and    every    feminisl's 
nightmare. 

Compared  to  some  of  its  competitors  this 
season.  "Goodnight  Beantown "  is  in  a  class  by 


;¥S»¥ft¥ftSJSftWftW:S¥>"i:ftS¥:¥ 


SPOTLIQHT 

S  The      SPOTLIGHT      isji 

^:  publisiied  eacfi  Ivlonday  morn-  ■: 
^  ing  of  the  academic  year  by  :■ 
ft'  journalism  and  other  inleiesled  < 
S;  students  at  Ihe  Williamsporl  jij 
5  Area  Communily  College,  :■: 
1:1005  W  Third  St,,-:; 
g  Williamsporl,  Pa  1 7701 .  ■:■ 
S  Telephone  326-3761,  Ext  ¥ 
5  221,  S 


fc  The  opinions  expiessed  •: 
a  are  those  of  the  sludenl  :i 
^newspaper,  of  individuaii 
^  wirilers  or  ol  individuals  intei-;: 
S  viewed  and  do  not  lellecl  Ihe  :■ 
J  opinion  ot  Ihe  iitslilulion  :■ 


¥|  rrie    SPOILIGHI    is    a- 

J.^  metjibei  of  Itie  Columbia :, 
S;  Scholaslic  Press  Associalion     :] 

§  Production  learn  this  Issue:  < 
'S.  Gregory  W  Hull,  production  :■ 
Jjsupervisoi,  Batbi  L  Chilson,  i: 
::;:  videocomposilion,  Kay  M  < 
5.5  Frace.  copy  ediloi.  Lori  L  :■ 
«:  Holland,  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr,,S 
S;  and  Robert  w  Minier,  produc-  ■- 
^^5  tion  assistants  :■ 


^ 


Adam  helps  locate 
missing  children 

...says  Kathy  A.  Meixel  in  review 

The  receni  TV  movie,  Adam,  shows  us  Ihal 
some  movies  provide  more  than  a  lew  hours 
enlerlainmeni 

The  movie  was  the  story  of  Adam  Walsh, 
who  was  kidnapped  and  later  found  dead  after 
much  hearlbreak  The  parenis  ol  Ihe  boy  put 
aside  Iheir  pain  and  anguish  lo  lead  a  movemeni 
which  resulted  in  Congress  passing  ihe  Missing 
Children's  Act. 

I    II    II    II    I 

One  could  not  watch  this  movie  with  a  dry 

eye.    We  were  pulled  into  Ihe  plight  of  the  family 

and  cornered  with  the  idea  thai  we  loo  may  one 

day  face  Ihe  reality  of  our  children  disappearing 

In  cooperation  with  ihe  movie-makers,  pic- 
tures ol  missing  children  were  flashed  and  ihe  au- 
dience was  asked  il  anyone  had  seen  Ihe  missing 
children  pictured  -  and  lo  call  a  special  number  if 
Ihey  had  Several  calls  were  received  and  a  cou- 
ple of  children  were,  as  a  lesull.  located 

II      M     II     LI     II 

The  movie.  Adam,  made  many  people  aware 
ol  ttie  fact  that  many  children  lurn  up  missing 
everyday  Many  mothers  will  walch  Iheir  children 
more  closely  now  and  make  sure  their  youngsters 
avoid  strangers.  Hopefully,  more  missing  children 
will  be  located  because  of  this  fine  movie 


■■.•SSftS5W>WASW::s:SSft»WS»s5; 


By  Murray  J.  Hanford 
Advertising  art  student  from  Hughesville 


College  president  overwhelmed, 
expresses  gratitude  over  party 

By  Joan  1,.  Thnmpson 
Ailminis{ralivc  Affairs  Kdiliit 

To  say.  Dr.  Robcrl  L.  Brcudcr.  College  prcsidcnl,  was  "siirprisocl"  wiili  a  bn- 
ilulay  parlv  iiiigbl  he  llic  uiidcr.slalcn\cnl  of  ibc  semcslcr. 

'in  Dr.  Brcudcr's  words,  he  was  "iriily  mcrwhclincd  and  deeply  appieeiaiue." 

"Tlic  lael  ilial  so  iiianv  of  our  sliidcnis,  as  well  as  facully  and  suiff.  would 
eonic  oiil  10  share  iii  ilie  cnjoynicni  of  ihc  oeeasion  wiih  me  was  absolulely  maiiniri- 
eeiu,"  he  said.  ,  ,     ,    ,  ,■ 

"I  undersland  ii  was  one  of  ihe  largesi  siudcni  liirn-ouls  lliai  wc  vcjiad  lor 
aiiylhiiig  we'\e  done  -  wilh  ihc  possible  e\ecpiion  of  sonic  aeld  rock  concerts. 
"Bui  il's  gralifyinc  ui  know  ihal  I  was  up  Ihcre  wilh  ihc  mud  wrestlers,"  Dr. 
Brcudcr  said  jokinglv. 

The  "eoiispiracv"  involved  in  keeping  Ihe  consiructmn  ol  Ihc  massive  cake  a 
sccrcl  was  irickv,  bul  a  complcic  success.  Thanks  lo  the  ciniccrled  cfforl  on  ihc 
pan  of  facully,  staff,  siudcnls,  and  most  especially,  his  adroil  secretary, 
Nora  M.  Martz,  the  deception  was  complete. 

Dr  Brcudcr  said  he  decplv  apprcciaicil  the  hours  of  work  spent  by  Ihe  siudcnls 
and  Mrs  Ann  R.  Miglio,  coouliiiaioi,  food  and  hospitality,  in  the  conslrucli(ni  of 
the  cake  which  was  an  elaborate  replica  oi  the  new  IJfclong  Educalion  Center  that 
is  under  coiislrucliou  on  campus. 

"To  eat  a  cake  that  si«  in  a  mailer  of  two  hours  is  the  besi  way  to  conclude 
Ihal  it  was  good,"  the  president  observed. 

"It  was  inlercsling  to  note  that  the  administration  portion  and  Ihc  president  s 
olTicc,  in  particular,  were  ihc  first  lo  be  eaten.  I  hope  Ihal's  not  an  omen,"  he  said 
with  a  grin. 

"If  turning  40  is  anything  like  .W,"  he  said,  "I'm  ready  for  it  next  month. 

Hints  given  for  mid-term  test-taking 


Monday,  Ocl.  24,  mi        SPOTI.KiHT 


SCA  represen(alives,  Jill  R.  Hainplon  and  Thiimas  P.  Brady  present  Robert 
L.  Breudcr,  College  president  wilh  birlliday  card.  JSPOTLIGHT  pluiio  by  Barbi 
L.  Cliihiii/ 

Data  processing  manager  to  speak 
tomorrow  to  Computer  Science  Club 


Tesl-laking  hints  have  been  provid- 
ed  by   Dean   R.    Foster,   director  of 
developmental  studies,  lo  help  students 
through  mid-lerm  exams.   They  are: 
TRUE/FALSE, 
MULTIPLE  CHOICE, 
FILL-IN-THE-BLANK 

1.  Go  through  the  lest  and  first 
answer  all  the  questions  you  are  sure  of. 

An  easier  question  will  often  remind 
you  of  something  that  helps  you  answer 
a  more  difficult  question. 

2.  On  a  difficult  multiple  choice 
question,  eliminate  the  wrong  answers. 
The  wrong  answers  are  easier  lo  identify 
than  the  right  ones.  Even  if  you  end  up 
guessing,  your  chances  are  improved  if 
you  eliminate  one  or  two  obviously 
wrong  answers. 

3.  Don't  waste  time  on  a  question 
that  completely  baffies  you.  Unless  you 
arc  penalized  for  a  wrong  answer  more 
then  no  answer,  take  your  besi  guess 
and  move  on. 

4.  Almost  never  change  your  first 
answer.  Your  subconscious  remembers 
things  your  conscious  forgets.  "Intui- 
tion" and  "hunches"  are  really  weak 
memories  and  messages  from  your  sub- 
conscious. Never  change  an  answer 
because  you  think  it's  wrong.  Only 
change  and  answer  if  you  are  certain 
you  remember  Ihe  right  one. 

5.  Review  your  test  after  you've 
answered  all  Ihe  questions. 


ESSAY  TESTS 

1.  Don't  just  start  writing.  First 
jot  down  all  of  your  ideas  on  scratch 
paper.  In  your  essay,  instructors  usual- 
ly expect  you  to  mention  a  very  specific 
main  idea,  detail,  fact,  reason  and  a 
conclusion. 

2.  After  you've  jotted  down 
everything  you  can  remember,  start  with 
the  main  idea  and  write  about  the 
details,  facts,  reasons  and  examples. 

3.  Finally,  write  a  good  conclu- 
sion. Make  sure  you  answered  the  exact 
question  the  instructor  asked,  and  check 
for  spelling  errors. 

SGA  representative  gives 
reminder  of  new  policies 

The  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  wants  to  remind  students  of 
the  newly-approved  policies  passed  at 
the  Oct.  6  Board  of  Trustees  meeting, 
according  to  Thomas  P.  Brady,  ex- 
ecutive SGA  committee  representative. 

Bicycles  should  be  parked  in  the 
bicycle  racks  provided.  Siudcnls 
violating  this  policy  will  receive  one 
warning.  Aficr  a  warning,  Ihe  College 
administration  will  impound  Ihe 
bicycles,  he  said. 

Secondly,  no  eating,  drinking,  or 
smoking  is  allowed  In  carpeted  or  shop 
areas,  said  Brady. 


A  guest  speaker,  Ray  Lynch,  data 
processing  manager,  Pullman  Power 
Products,  will  be  featured  tomorrow  at 
the  meeting  of  the  Computer  Science 
Club,  according  to  B.  Drew  Robison, 
dub  public  relalions. 

Lynch,  a  graduate  of  the  College, 
will  discuss  Customer  Information 
Computer  Service  (CICS)  and  Ihe  ad- 
vantages of  being  a  member  of  the  West 


Humpty  Dumpty 

sub  &  pizza  shops  welcomes...  WACC  students 

r""5°/o  off  per  person      i 


Souihslde 

W  Central  &  Market 

322-9569  (Must  have 


valid  WACC  ID) 


Creek  Side 
Lycom   Creek  Rd 


Branch  Data  Processing  and  their 
fourth  generation  of  languages,  said 
Robison. 

Also,  a  sample  program  in 
statistical  analysis  system  (SAS)  will  be 
covered,  giving  each  person  a  chance  lo 
do  simple  calculations  using  the  SAS 
programming  language,  he  said. 

The  meeting  will  lake  place  in 
Room  321,  Academic  Center,  ai  3:30 
p.m.,  tomorrow. 


HALLOWEEN  COSTUME  BASH 


The  Williamsport  Area 

Community  College 

Gymnasium 

OCT.  26     8-11  PH. 

WEAR  A  COSTUME!   Prizes  Awarded! 

Dance  to  Addison  Avenue 

S2J0Q  at  The  Door 

Sponsored  by  Artists  Unlimited 

also 

Sigma  Pi  Omega  &  College  Cliibs 
Sponsoring 

Mixer  And  Free  Refreshments 

(student  ID  required  for  mixer) 

6:30 


SPOTLIGHT        Mondav,  (hi.  24.  19(13 


Foreign  students  add  to  College 
says  Counseling  Center  director 


By  helping  Ihem,  you  help  me... 


irics,  he  added. 


There  is  a  need  lo  learn  from  them... 


By  Kalhy  A.  Mcixcl  Raghavan  Ashokkumar,  from  India,  is  studying  food  and  hospilalily  nianagc- 

Of  Tht  .SPOTLIGHT  Siafi  incni.  He  already  lioids  a  bachelor's  degree  in  accounting  which  he  obtained  in  In- 

Foreign  students  add  something  to  a  college.  "There  is  something  to  be  learn-  dia.  He  desires  to  become  a  management  carrier.  Ashokkumar  is  being  sponsored 
ed  and  lo  be  shared  from  these  student.s,"  stated  Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  by  his  brother.  Dr.  Raghavan  Vasudcvan,  a  cardiologist  in  Williamsport.  Ashok- 
of  counseling,  career  development,  and  placement.  Emery  coordinates  the  needs  of  kumar  pointed  out  thai  "the  procedures  here  arc  dilTcrent.  Things  are  a  little  new, 
the  foreign  .students  enrolled  at  the  College.  the  approaches  are  good."    He  particularly  likes  the  work  program.    He  feels  it 

There  are  currently  four  foreign  students  enrolled  at  the  College  to  the  besi  of  gives  him  good  experience  and  will  help  him  when  he  looks  for  a  job  either  here  or 
Emery's  knowledge:     Shih-Te  .S.  Chu,  a  graphic  arts  student  from  Taiwan;      in  his  country. 

Mohammed  S.  Abba,  a  general  studies  student  from  Nigeria;  Clement  R.  Medo,  Actively  involved,  Emery  coordinates  the  needs  of  these  students  and  provides 

an  electronics  sludcnl  from  Kenya,  and  Raghavan  Ashokkumar,  a  food  and   iransporlalion  for  Medo  to  and  from  .school  every  day.   The  problems  they  face 
hospitality  student  from  India.  here  are  basic  needs  such  as  food,  diet  and  different  religions,  mainlained  Emery. 

La.sl  year,  there  were  nine  foreign  students  enrolled  at  the  College.   Some  of  As  an  example,  Emery  said  thai  last  year  four  students  from  Surinamc  each 

those  students  were  graduated  and  two  of  Ihem  did  not  re-enroll  for  this  .semester,   practiced  a  different  religion.   The  meal  they  agreed  upon  was  chicken.   They  e\- 

In  an  aside,  Emery  noted  that  any  foreign  sludcnl  who  attends  .school  in  the   eluded  beef,  pork,  lamb  and  other  meat  from  their  diets. 
United  Stales  is  issued  a  temporary  visa  for  two  years  and  thai  is  valid  only  if  they  Foreign  students  also  face  Ihc  widespread  problem  of  prejudice,  commented 

are  attending  school.  The  students  who  do  not  enroll  for  college  and  remain  in  the   Emery. 

United  Stales  arc  considered  illegal  aliens.  This  is  one  of  the  major  problems  faced  Problems  facing  other  college  students  also  affccl  many  foreign  studenis, 

when  dealing  with  foreign  sludcnls,  commented  Emery.  The  life  they  face  as  an  il-   Emery  .said.   Money  is  one  problem  shared  by  both.   Coming  from  a  background 
alien  in  this  country  is  often  "a  bellcr  life"  than  they  would  face  in  their  coun-  where  they  never  had  a  large  amounl  of  money  to  spend,  foreign  students  tend  lo 

spend  money  frivolously  as  do  students  who  receive  student  loans.  A  foreign  stu- 
dent can  no!  work  outside  of  the  college  ihey  arc  attending  -  which  puts  them  into 
direct  compelition  for  jobs  with  other  sludciits. 

When  weekends  and  holidays  roll  around,  Ihc  student  often  has  no  place  to  go 

since  their  families  live  miles  away.  Their  loneliness  is  compounded  by  the  fact  Ihcy 

I  I  =      are  in  a  si  range  land  and  do  not  know  where  to  go  or  what  to  do  for  cntcrtainnienl. 

Like  many  students,  Ihcsc  individuals  .sometimes  need  developmental  courses. 
In  order  lo  receive  a  beller  life,  Clement  R.  Medo  and  his  wife  decided  that  the  "English  can  be  a  big  problem,"  said  Emery.  Talking  about  understanding  their 
.sacrifices  he  would  have  to  make  in  order  to  gain  an  education  here  were  worth  it.  speech,  Emery  empathized:  "You  have  to  listen  lo  them.  It  improves  your  conccn- 
Uncmploymenl  is  very  high  in  his  country  and  it  "isn't  easy",  said  Medo.  He  at-  tralion.  It  forces  you  to  really  lislen  to  what  Ihey  are  saying."  This  adds  lo  Ihc 
lends  college  here  while  his  wife  and  two  sons  live  in  Kenya.  Medo  is  originally  gains  that  can  be  made  by  having  foregin  students  in  this  country's  .schools,  he  said, 
from  Mosambigue,  but  has  lived  in  Kenya  for  15  years.  While  in  Africa,  he  attend-  We  can  learn  from  these  students,  Emery  observed.  Medo  has  already  spoken 
ed  the  African  American  Institute  in  Tanzania,  where  he  learned  to  speak  English,  lo  a  group  about  his  unique  and  fascinating  experiences.  "They  give  us  first  hand 
A  local  group,  Internalional  Student  Coordinating  Association  of  Lycoming  knowledge  of  Ihc  politics  in  their  country  and  how  it  affects  the  people  who  live 
County,  (ISCALC)  is  sponsoring  Medo.  He  refers  to  Ihem  as  "good  people."  He  there.  Often  while  the  student  is  in  school  here,  the  government  back  home  will 
IS  very  gralclul  lo  ihcm  for  "dcparluig  wilh  what  liulc  Ihcy  have  in  help  me....  By  change  hands.  They  may  lose  touch  with  their  families.  Political  instability  in  the 
helping  them  you  are  helping  me,"  stated  Medo.  He  is  doing  very  well  in  his  students'  country  is  a  big  problem  that  faces  these  sludcnls  and  ihal  we  are  aware 
studies,  receiving  A's  and  B's.  Medo  concluded  by  saying,  "America  is  different,  of."  pointed  out  Emery. 
The  standard  is  high.    You  have  to  work  hard  to  get  up."  Many  can  nol  talk  about  the  politics  in  their  countries  without  fear  of  il  being 

Another  foreign  student,  Mohammed  S.  Abba,  from  Nigeria,  is  working  held  against  Ihem  at  home, 
toward  a  degree  in  nuclear  engineering.  He  has  received  previous  education  at  The         Foreign  studenis  give  back  lo  the  College  a  wealth  of  knowledge    After  observ- 
Pennsylvania  State  University  and  plans  to  return  there.  Abba  is  attending  school  ing  Medo,  one  can  nol  help  but  to  wonder  if  we  take  our  availability  lo  education 
on  a  scholarship  and  he  works  at  the  College  Bookstore.  He  has  been  in  the  U.S.  ft,r  granted,  the  director  commcnled.    "There  is  a  need  lo  learn  frcmi  them  and  lo 
for  three  and  a  half  years  and  al  Williainsporl  since  December,  1981.   He  hopes  to  become  more  involved  in  them,"  Emerv  staled 
complclc  his  schooling  bv  I9H5.  '  j ,        ^   -./i 

About  30  report 

for  basketball,  practice  set 

The  men's  basketball  tryouls  last 
Monday  allracled  approximately  30 
participants,  according  to  Louis  J. 
Mcnago,  basketball  coach. 

The  team  will  practice  fnmi  4  p.m. 
lo  6:30  p.m.  throughout  the  week,  said 
Mcnago. 

The  team's  first  tentative  compeli- 
tion will  be  m  Nov.  21  in  a  Tip-Off 
Tournament  al  Butler  County  Com- 
munity College. 


CLKMKNl  R.  MKI)0 

...friiiu  Kenya 


RA(;HAVE^  ASHOKKUMAR 

...Ironi  India 


MOHAMMED  S.  ABBA 
...frnm  Nigeria 


3^  (ENL  251-01) 
MASTERS  OF  HORROR 


,,  '"  ""■  "'"alurt.  film,  rccdrdinss,  and  artwork  ol  Ihe  Horriif 

Genre  includins  Krankenslcin,  Pne,  and  Ihe  hislory  „r  b.ni.  Ihe  H..rr„r  Comic 
and  Ihe  Hiirnir  lilin. 


ULLY  TRANSFKRABLK/CRKnuS/MWF  1112 
Register  Now 
for  Spring  Semester! 

^1         hir  lurlhfr  inlonnalion.  Kintuil: 


BARRY'S 

Third  Street 

Sandwich  Parlor 

and  Arcade 

Brooklyn-Style  Eatery 


330-32  W.  Third  St.,  Williamsport 


Open  Daily 
For  Breakfast 

Hours:  Mon  ATues. 

6  a.m.  12  Midnight 

V»/ed.-Sun.  open  24  hrs. 

•  N«w  Yofli  ityl«  l>ot  dofs 

•  0««|adi«l  ilrf.d)rla  anMdta 
,  •Pljza 

•  Chicken  &  Fronch  Fri«i 

•  Salad  &  Soup  Bar 


Monday,  Oil.  24.  IIK.!        SPOTLIGHT 


Moviemakers  still  see$S$  on  the  screen 


Firsl.  lake  away  $50  million  Ihc  llicalcr  gels  over  Ihc  long  haul. 
Then  sublrati  ihc  sludio  or  di.slribulor's  fee  of  $15  million. 
And  don'l  forgcl  aboul  Ihe  $9  million  -  lake  a  million  or  iwo  - 


n  markeling 


By  Roberl  W.  Minier 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Slatt 

Molion  piclure  people  love  lo  lalk  aboul  almosi  cverylhing  pcrlaining  lo 
movies,  cxcepi  how  much  Ihcy  cost  and  who  gels  how  much. 

Hollywood  buries  its  costs  and  profils  in  an  avalanche  of  coniracis  and  red 
and  black  ink. 

One  Ihing  for  sure  is  ihal  Americans  spcnl  $3  billion  al  <\v  bov-'-fficc  lasl 
year. 

Nothing  is  simple 

Whal  pari  of  Ihe  movie  money  did  Hollywood  gel?  Well,  il  depends  on  each 
film  and  each  deal.    In  Hollywood...  nolhiiig  is  simple. 

Sieve  Slansweel  from  ihe  Wall  Sireel  Jimriial  stales, "every  movie  that  is   box  office 
released  by  a  major  distributor  has  its  own  bargaining,  its  own  conlract.  When  a         On  llic  official  books,  most  films  never  make  a  profit     But  a  film  does  not 
movie  ,s  very  hot  you  can  get  belter  Icrms  from  Ihe  theater  owners.   For  the  first   have  to  make  a  profit  to  put  money  into  the  pockets  of  those  involved 
couple  of  week.s,  you  can  get  tremendous  terms  -  you  can  hold  up  Ihc  theater  Next  week  we'll  show  why  everyone 

owner  and  get  perhaps  80  to  90  cents  of  every  dollar  Ihal  he  collects."  nims  that  never  show  a  profit. 

Back  lo  Hollywood 
Alex  Auerbach  o!  Box  Office  Magazine  stales,  "there  is  what's  called  a     TlirPP  n/iniini<:frnfnr^   nVP^Pnt 
90-10  split.   That  means  that  after  some  expenses,  90  cents  out  of  every  dollar  at    ^''"^^   UUiniflldlf  UlUfd  pftdtfll 
Ihe  box  office  goes  back  to  Hollywood  during  the  first  week.   During  the  second    J  DD  uinrkvlinrt    in    Arhnnn 
week,  it's  80  cents  of  every  dollar  thai  goes  back  10  Hollywood.  Then  h  dccliiWs  -*^-'"      WUt  rv^riup   III  j^f  l4,UflU 
each  week.   Thai's  why  the  theater  likes  long-running  movies.   They  make  more 
toward  Ihc  end  of  the  run." 

Two  largcsl  expenses 

David  Weilnzer  of  (he  Embassy  Distribution  Company  slates.  "I  think  Ihc 
Iwo  largest  expenses  in  the  dislribulion  of  a  film  clearly  are  the  cosi  of  producing 
the  prints  and  the  overall  purchase  of  the  media.  If  it's  -  for  argument's  sake  -  a 


Subtract  the  interest 

Now  subtract  the  interest  on  Ihe  film...  the  studio  overhead  and  Ihc  original 
production  cosls...  Ihal  leaves  $13  million  for  profit  sharing. 

Profit  participants  can  include  the  stars.  Ihe  directors,  the  screenwriters,  and 
anyone  who  has  a  piece  of  the  action. 

Then  whal  is  left  over  goes  to  the  people  who  distributed  and  made  the  movie. 

This  would  be  about  $6  mllion  oul  of  the  original  $100  million  taken  in  at  the 


•  can  make  a  pretty  good  living  producing 


The  conference  included  workshops 

By  Mary  L.  Pease  presented   by  various  college  trustees 

SPOTLIGHT  IManasinn  Kdilor  and    presidents.        Coiripulers.    high 

Three     College     administrators    technology    and    community    college 

presented  a  "Strategic  Long  Range  Plan-    futures  were  specific  workshop  topics  as 

nhig"  workshop  in  Phoenix.  Ariz.,  al    were  collective  bargaining,  and  negotia- 


thousand-print  release  in  a  thousand  theaters,  and  you're  using  network  television    '''^     National     Conference     for    the    lions  between  colleges  and  employees. 


and  large  newspaper  space  and  a  lot  of  radio,  you're  talking  aboul  millions  and 
millions  of  dollars. 

"The  frightening  thing,  of  course,  is  Ihal  this  industry  has  probably  the  mosi 
perishable  of  all  products  Ihal  opens  on  a  Friday  and  could  be  a  success  over  Satur- 
day and  Sunday.  And  come  Monday,  the  theaters  may  be  looking  for  a  replace- 
ment film  very,  very  quickly." 

Even  if  Ihe  public  is  convinced  the  film  is  a  good  one  and  the  money  comes 
rollin'  ill,  il  lakes  a  long  lime  for  Ihe  film  lo  pay  for  ilself. 

Say  a  sludio  has  made  a  film  that  cost  $10  million  and  hits  gold...  grossing 
$100  million  at  Ihe  box  office,  Ihal  $100  million  doesn't  belong  lo  Ihe  people  who 
made  the  film. 


Association    of    Community    College  Dr.    Brcuder,    Hurley    and    Dr. 

Trustees    (ACCT),    according   to   Dr.  Doyle  presented  a  long  range  planning 

Daniel  J.  Doyle,  planning  eommittce  workshop,   which,   according   lo   Dr. 

chairperson  of  Ihe  long  range  planning  Doyle,  enabled  others  lo  "share  ideas 


process. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breudcr.  College 
president :  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of 
educational  research,  planning  and 
evaluation,  and  Dr.  Doyle  attended  the 
five-dav  conference. 


and  stimulate  thinking  as  to  the  role  of  a 
trustee." 

The  conference  drew  approximate- 
ly 1,500  reprcsenlalives  from  all  over 
the  United  Stales.  Onc-huiidred  and 
thirty  attended  the  long  range  planning 
workshop,  said  Doyle. 

"It  went  very  well,"  said  Dr. 
Brcuder. 

"We  must  have  received  business 
cards  from  30  lo  35  people  from  other 
colleges  who  asked  if  we  could  provide 
consultation  services  concerning  long 
range  planning,"  he  said. 

"Word  got  around  quickly  about 
how  much  knowledge  the  College  has  on 
long  range  planning,"  he  added. 

WACCEA  delays 

representatives 

election 

The  election  of  board  area 
representatives  was  to  be  held  al  Ihe 
Oct.  11  meeling  of  Williamsporl  Area 
Community  College  Education  Associa- 
tion (WACCEA)  was  postponed,  accor- 
ding to  Richard  J.  Weilminsler, 
associate  professor  of  horticulture  and 
president  of  the  Association. 

Ballots  have  been  sent  lo  faculty 
for  Ihe  election  of  the  representatives  in- 
stead of  electing  them  at  the  meeling. 
This  was  lo  make  il  easier  for  facully, 
Weilminsler  said. 

The  results  of  the  election  will  be 
.given  al  the  end  of  October,  he  said. 

Also  discussed  al  the  meeting  was 
whether  the  officers  and  board  area 
representatives  should  be  reimbursed  for 
their  time  spent  by  rebating  their  dues. 
A  proposal  will  be  made  at  Ihe  Associa- 
tion's next  meeting,  Wcilniinslcr  said. 


6       SPOTLIGHT       Monday.  Ocl.  24,  1983 


i       Gettin '  ready 

%  /SPOTUGHT  pliolDS  In  Bin  hi  L.  Cliihni/ 


AT  PRACTICE  last  week:  /Lefl/  Michael  F. 
Turpack,  general  sludies  sludenl  friim 
Millon,  and  Richard  A.  Sullon,  conslruclion 
carpenlry  sludenl  friiin  Towanda. 


Nine  intramural 
football  teams 
leading 
tournament 

Nine  learns  lead  llic  inlramural 
r»i>lliall  dmibic  climiiialioii  loiirnamcm, 
aaiirdiiii;  in  Mrs,  JoAim  R.  Frcniiolii, 
LiiiiiJiiiaiiir  ol'  inlramural  alhlclics  and 
College  aclivilics. 

The  Ball  Slappcrs,  Old  Mil,  The 
Ddgs.  69crs,  Tokc's  Boys,  NAD's. 
Joe's  Boys,  Wild  Boar,  and  Radii's 
Rebels  all  lead  I  he  lournanieiil  slandiiigs 
as  of  lasl  Monday  wilh  idenlieal 
records. 

The  Foriy-Sixcrs,  Bon/  Brew 
Crew,  Nuller's,  Healer's.  Gambler's, 
Siranglcr's,  and  T's  are  all  in  second 
pLuc  wilh  a  record  of  no  wins  and  one 
loss.  The  only  Team  climinalcd  from 
compciilion  is  llic  Z  Team. 

The  inlramural  foolball  resulls 
from  lasl  Monday  arc  Old  Mil  78. 
Gamblers  48;  The  Dogs  40,  Sirangler's 
20  and  69ers  won  via  forfeil  from  Ihc  Z 
Tciiin. 

Gaines  scheduled  for  lasl  Tuesday 
uill  be  played  loday  on  ihe  field  behind 
Ihc  Adminislralion  Building.  The 
schedule  is  NAD's  vs.  Boriz  Brew  Crew 
al  4  p.m.;  Wild  Boar  vs.  Toke's  Boys  al 
5  p.m.,  and  Ball  Slappcrs  vs.  Radic's 
Rebels  ai  6  p.m. 

In  case  of  rain  and  if  ihe  firsi  game 
is  cancelled,  all  games  after  ihal  will 
also  be  cancelled,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 


Alley  Cats  bowl  high  team  series 


In  Ihe  inlramural  bowling  league  al 
Ihe  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  Ihe  Alley  Cals 
bowled  Ihe  high  learn  scries  of  2493  lo 
lead  all  leams,  according  lo  records  pro- 
vided by  the  Lanes'  managemenl. 

The  inlramural  bowling  resulls 
from  Ocl.  18  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

1.  Briar  House 

2.  Alley  Cals 

3.  Deslroycrs 

4.  Bull  Spinners 

5.  Millon 

6.  Dew  Crew 

7.  Melal  Men 

8.  Flinlslones 


Wins  Losses 

7         2 


Men's  higk  slnglt  game 

Frank  J.  Scber,  eleclrical  coiislruc- 
lion  sludenl  from  Scranlon,  248. 

David  A.  Byers,  accounling  slu- 
denl from  Millon,  220. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condilion- 
ing/refrigeralion  sludenl  from 
Fredericksburg,  211. 

Women's  bith  siRglt  |>imt 

Judy  A.  Wesi,  clerical  science  slu- 
denl from  Monloursville,  185. 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
sludenl  from  Cogan  Slalion,  161. 

Linda   Sahm,    secrelarial    science 
sludenl  from  Williamsporl,  142. 
Men's  high  game 

Seber  bowled  a  649. 

Byers,  585. 

Zohn,  555. 


Women's  high  series 

WesI  bowled  a  437. 

King,  409. 

Nicola  S.   Reese,  general  sludies 
sludenl  from  Wellsboro,  390. 
High  team  single 

Bull  Spinners,  903. 

Alley  Cals,  898. 

Briar  House,  832. 

High  learn  series 

Alley  Cals,  2493. 

Bull  Spinners,  2465. 

Dew  Crew,  2386. 

High  averages 

The  five  persons  wilh  Ihe  highesi 
averages  are  Scber,  217;  Byers,  192; 
Zohn,  176;  Barry  F.  Yoder,  compuler 
science  sludenl  from  Dewarl,  166,  and 
Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 
healing  sludenl  from  Lykens,  166. 

Wednesday's  soccer  schedule  sel 

The  inlramural  soccer  schedule  for 
Ihis  Wednesday,  is  as  follows:  Al  4 
p.m.,  Smurf's  Blue  Devils  vs. 
W.A.C.C.  Uniled  and  al  5  p.m., 
Radkc's  Raiders  vs.  Rowdies. 

in  case  of  rain,  soccer  will  be 
cancelled  due  lo  baskelball  pradice  in 
Ihe  Bardo  Gym,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor  of  in- 
lramural alhlclics  and  College  aclivilics. 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

By  Perry  D.  Penlz.  SPOTLIGHT  Sports  Edilor 


I     Ma» 


An  aihlele  is  a  Irained  compciiior  In  a  game  requiring  physical  skill.  This  skill 
is-whal  mosi  people  call  inborn.  Alihough  ihis  is  irue  in  some  cases,  .some  alhleles 
feel  il  is  necessary  lo  lake  drugs  lo  perform  lo  iheir  fullesl  capabilily. 

Many  league  leams-  bolh  in  foolball  and  baseball-  have  relea.scd  news  aboul 
federal  drug  probes.  The.se  probes  have  reccnily  broughi  guilly  picas  from  four 
members  of  ihe  Kansas  Cilv  Royals.  The  members  are  Vida  Blue,  Cy  Young  award 
winner;  Jerry  Marlin,  Willie  Wilson,  former  American  League  balling  champion, 
and  Willie  Aikens. 

Of  Ihc  many  drugs,  cocaine  is  Ihe  main  drug  found  in  ihe  possession  of  Ihe 
alhleles.  ll  is  lo  my  surprise  ihal  ihe  ficcl-fooled  Wilson  look  drugs  because  of  Ihe 
good  aihlele  he  is  on  Ihe  field.  This  drug  case  makes  me  wonder:  Was  il  ihe  co- 
caine which  made  him  a  good  aihlele? 

My  feeling  in  Ihis  shualion  is  Ihis:  If  Ihe  alhleles  need  lo  lake  drugs  lo  be  ef- 
feclive,  ihen  ihey  should  gel  oul  of  ilie  sporl.  There  is  nol  enough  room  in  sporls 
for  alhleles  who  arc  "high".  When  Ihe  players  arc  "high"  ihcy  nol  only  risk 
ihemselves  but  also  iheir  leammaies. 

Should  olher  players  risk  ihemselves  wilh  someone  hooked  on  drugs?  Being  a 
narcolic,  cocaine  is  hab'iual.  Once  a  player  slarls  using  ihe  drug,  il  becomes  a 
habii  lo  use  il  all  Ihe  lime.  The  players  ihen  gel  hooked  on  il.  This  causes  ihe 
leammaies  lo  be  elfecied  by  ihe  inabilily  of  a  player  lo  perform  a  ceriain  pa.ss  pal- 
lern  or  calch  a  "rouline"  fly  ball. 

A  few  alhleles  in  all  sporis  have  excepiional  lalenl.  Does  il  lake  drugs  lo  make 
an  alhlelr  good?  Is  ihis  lalenl  "irue  lo  nauire"  or  is  a  drug  helping  wilh  Iheir  abili- 
ly  10  pc'i"  ,ni  well?  .Surely,  some  people  are  spcculaiivc  aboul  which  of  ihese 
ihoughis  are  Irue. 

Wilh  Ihc  conlinuing  success  of  drug  probes,  many  of  Ihe  "high"  alhleles  will 
be  caughl  and  prosecuied  by  officials.  Hopefully  many  more  probes  will  be  in- 
inslilulcd  in  ihc  many  sporls  of  ihc  world.  The  probes  will  sifl  oul  Ihe  real  alhleles 
frcnu  Ihe  fake  alhleles! 


Make     a      date:       Give      blood.      Oct.      25      &      26 


Whaddya'  say...? 

Question  was  asked 
at  Earth  Science  Campus 

Photos  by  Mary  L.  Pease 
Interviews  by  Tracey  S.  Willette 


Question:  Does 
any  state  have  the 
right  to  intercede 
in  one's  religious 
beliefs  when 
medical  practices 
and  religious 
beliefs  conflict? 


Miindat.  Oil.  24.  IWJ        SPOTLIGHT 


Daniel  A  Domville.  nursery 
management  sludenl  from  Warren: 
"People  are  going  lo  think  what  they 
want  to  think  either  way  " 


James  A   Chapman,  forestry  slu- 
denl    from     Williamsporl:     "Yes 
Whenever  human  life  can  be  preserv- 
ed, il  should  be " 


Leslie  N.  Cole,  nursery  manage- 
ment student  from  Lewisburg:  "No,  If 
your  religious  beliefs  are  that  strong, 
you  should  have  the  right  to  refuse 
medical  IrealmenI " 


J>'ll  V  Furek.  forestry  student 
from  Hughesville-  "Yes  If  it's  a  life  or 
death  situation,  the  medial  people 
should  have  the  righl  to  help  " 


Edward  J  Stellar,  service  and 
operation  of  heavy  equipment  student 
from  Kulpmont  "No,  because  it's  the 
person's  right  Nobody  else  should  be 
able  to  decide  if  a  person  lives  or  dies  " 


Douglas  W  Koch,  forestry  student 
from  Jersey  Shore  "No  I  don't  think 
they  should  be  able  to  A  person's 
religious  beliefs  are  Ihe  Number  One 
thing  in  their  lives  They  should  be 
able  to  follow  them" 


Pebbles  D  Drum,  nursery 
management  student  from 
Williamsporl:  "I  don't  think  so  If  one's 
religious  beliefs  conflict  with  medical 
practices,  then  it's  between  Ihe  person 
and  the  hospital  —  not  the 
government  "  II 


Jeff  A  tvlinich,  service  and  opera- 
tion of  heavy  equipment  student  from 
Clarion:  "No  If  your  religious  beliefs 
are  strong  enough  to  let  someone  die. 
then  you  must  really  be  devoted  to 
your  religion," 


ACROSS 
1  Sci  room 

4  Cook 

8  Moral  obliga- 

12  Macaw 

13  Cefemony 

14  Opera 
highlighl 

15  Writing 
implement 

17  Scnoolol 
whales 

19  —  Paso 

20  Scold 

21  Famous 

22  Poem 

23  Walk 

25  Gal  of  song 

26  Printer's 
measure 

27  Transgress 

28  Be  III 

23  Abounds 
3^  Scale  note 
'  J  Pastry 
j5  Near 
36  Freshet 

38  Youngster 

39  Before 

40  Preposition 

41  Col 

42  Turkish 
standard 

43  Wine  cup 

45  Conducted 

46  Resort 

47  Tra  follower 

48  By  way  of 

49  Seesaw 

52  One  opposed 
54  Raise 

56  Guide's  note 

57  Juncture 

58  Small  valley 

59  Obscure 
DOWN 

1  Once 


around 
track 

2  Exist 

3  Streamer 

4  Ship's  prison 

5  Lubricate 

6  Pronoun 

7  Lawful 

8  Obstruct 

9  Chaldean  city 

10  Bound 

11  Ivy  league 
school 

16  Headwear 
18  Pan  of  lobe 

21  Greeted 

22  United 

23  Deposits 

24  Journey 

25  Title  of 
respect 

26  Lamprey 

28  Nibbled 

29  Spread  for 
drying 

30  Stable 
dweller 

31  Stalk 


33  Pigpen 

34  Papa 
37  Arabian 


41  Whis 

42  Simi, 

43  Ah.r 


45  Chinese  m 

46  Withered 

48  Vigor 

49  Hindu 
cymbals 

50  1 1  Down 
student 

51  Ranch  ami 
53  Bye 


44  Lion's  pride      55  Diphthong 


' 

2 

3 

1 

4 

5"- 

6      7    ^e      9 

n 

't 

13 

■" 

ie 

■"n  ■'» 

U"  \    1    H"  1 

-. 

Tjr  pB 

M"] 

jrn    F 

31 

g. 

1 

"   Ui" 

F 

- 

_P^" 

yT| 

1'' 

tar 

L 

Li 

^    .iHI] 

■■ 

*' 

P 

y!f 

M 

50     51 

1 

54     55 

-■" 

L 

se 

I"    1  1 

AiisH'ei'  III  litis  week's  puzzle:  next  week 


Computer  Science 
Club  taking 
tours  next  week 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
take  lours  of  the  Lottery  and  Weather 
Bureaus  in  Harrisburg  next  Tuesday, 
according  lo  B.  Drew  Robison,  club 
public  relations. 

The  lour  of  the  Lottery  Bureau  will 
include  the  showing  of  ihc  computer 
system  used  lo  handle  all  ihe  different 
lollcry  numbers  coming  inio  ihe  system 
as  well  as  some  of  the  inpul-oulpul 
devices  used  lo  control  ihe  iiipul  of  all 
the  lottery  numbers. 

The  Weather  Bureau  lour  will  in- 
clude a  review  applications  of  the  com- 
puter as  a  forecasting  tool,  how  dala- 
proccssing  is  used,  computer  graphics 
and  graphic  overlays,  as  well  as  final 
lour  of  Ihe  overall  Weather  Bureau  and 
river  forecast  offices,  said  Robison. 

Cost  of  Ihe  trip  will  be  $3  and  will 
be  required  when  signing  up.  The  bus 
will  leave  fnmi  Ihc  Learning  Resources 
Center  (LRC)  at  7  a.m.  and  will  return 
about  6  p.m.  the  saine  day.  Persons 
planning  lo  go  are  lo  meet  at  the  LRC 
communications  desk  before  7  a.m. 

Robison  said  there  will  be  lime  set 
aside  for  lunch. 


Drollo-Crypto 

Give  your  mind  a  break:  Drollo- 
Crypto  will  return  next  week. 
Here's  the  answer  to  last  week's 
challenge: 

Your  ship  will  never 

come  in  if  your  mind 

is  landlocked 


You,  too,  may  need 

blood 

GIVE! 

This  Tuesday 

and  Wednesday 


Oct.  31  is  UNICEF  Day  which  is 
used  lo  collect  for  Ihe  United  Naticnis 
Inlcrnaiioiial  Childrens'  Fund. 


Park  Pizza 

1701  Memorial  Ave. 
PHONE:  322-9024 

50  cents 
off... 

any  large  pizza 

OPEN: 

11:50  a.iit.-l:30  i>.iii. 
Illicit  UKuitt  at  4 1>.  tit. 
7  iliivs  It  mckf 


Miindai,  (Id.  24,  IMJ 


Phi  Beta  Lambda 
wins  another  first: 
This  is  No.  8! 

Omiimied Jwin  I'unf  /■■■ 
were  Miss  Dorcc  M.  Siivdti,  cumpulcr 
science  sludenl  from  Monloiirsvillc,  and 
cliairpcrsiin;  Roger  M.  (iradcn,  coni- 
piilcr  science  sliidcnt  mm  Willianispurl; 
John  D.  Bovce,  comniiler  science  slu- 
denl from  Roaring  Branch;  Miss 
l-ii/abclh  A.  Zerby,  business-  science 
sludenl  from  Avis. 

Also  Paul  H.  Pauling,  compiiler 
science  sludenl  from  McuUgomery;  Miss 
lias  M.  Wilcos,  compulcr  science  slu- 
denl frcmi  (anion;  Miss  Tina  M.  Pousi, 
business  adminislraliiui  sludenl  from 
Hugliesvillc. 

Miss  Sherry  L.  Wllkins,  business 
science  sludenl  from  Lawrcnceville;  Jiui 
F.  Miller,  compulcr  .science  sludenl 
frcun  Colhmisville;  David  A.  Haas, 
Ciimpuler  science  sludenl  from 
Willianisporl,  and  Michael  C.  l,ol/,  a 
rclail  managemeni  sludenl  from 
•Shamokin. 

Advisers  were  Thomas  C.  Lcil/cl, 
acliiig  direclor  of  Building  Technologies 
Division  and  (ioldleder,  PBL  adviser. 

Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Ftif  l/if  wci'k 

of  Mimhy,  Oil.  24 

llinnifih  Siimiav,  Oii.  .tO 

Today,  Monday,  Oi'(.  24 

Foolball...  4  p.m.,  5  p.m.,  6  p.m. 

Table  lennis...  7  lo  10  p.m. 

Open  gym...  6;30  lo  10  p.m. 

Tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Oct.  25 

Foolball...  4,  5,  and  5  p.m. 

Bowling..,  4  p,ni. 

Wednesday,  Oct.  26 
Soccer...  4  lo  6  p.ni. 

Thursday.  ()c(.  27 
Foolball...  4,  5.  and  6  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:.W  lo  10  p.m. 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


Classifieds 

Pl.KASANT   KlIKMSHKI)   ROOMS 

by  (he  moiMh  liir  feniaU'  sludrn(s. 
Walk  K.  754  W.  Ihird  SI.  or  CALL: 

326-4507. 


FOR  SALK:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire.  Bar  only  used 
about  5  months;  complete  with  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKK  M¥.  AN 
OFFER!!  Call  Ext.  221.  ask  for  Tom. 


Assistance  sessions 
being  se(  up  now 
for  'below  grades' 

Any  student  receiving  two  or 
more  deficient  grades  (l)'s  or  F's) 
at  mid-semester  will  receive  a 
notice  Instructing  him  or  her  to 
call  the  Counseling.  Career 
Development  and  Placement  Of- 
fice for  student  mid-term 
assistance  sessions,  according  lo 
Thomas  M.  McNally,  counselor. 

The  sludenl  will  he  assigned 
III  a  group  and  will  be  required  to 
attend  two  special  sessions. 

The  first  session  will  help  the 
student  ascertain  his  academic 
problem  and  suggest  ways  to 
.solve  the  problem,  McNally  said. 
The  second  session  is  a  follow-up 
session  which  will  check-up  on 
the  student's  progress. 

These  sessions  will  be  held  in 
the  Learning  Resources  Center, 
on  The  Karth  Science  campus 
and  in  the  Transportation 
Technology  Center,  he  said. 


For  lite  week  of  Momliiv.  (hi.  24  Ihintigh  Slimhv,  Oct.  SO 
SPECIAL  ACTIVITIES 
Bloodmohile...  9:45  a.m.  lo  .V4.5  p.m..  tomorrow  and  Wednesday.  Bardo 

Ml. 

MEETINGS 

Outing  Club...  4:.10  p.m.  Wednesday.  Room  227,  Academic  Center. 

MOVIE 

"Tex"...  7:.10  ihis  cicning.  Academic  Ccnicr  Aiidilofium.  admission  $1. 


GIVING  INFORMATION  is  a  representative  from  Shippensburg  Universi- 
ty, William  Harrell,  to  Steve  Metzger,  student  here  at  the  College.  /SPOTLIGHT 

pliiiln  by  Buibi  L.  Cliilsmil 


SGA  planning     ^^"y  students  talk  to  reps 


Loiimmclljiiim  Pum  lUmm 

ing  Resources  Cenler  (LRC)  al  6  a.m. 
bolh  mornings  and  depart  from  St. 
Pal  rick's  Cathedral  in  New  York  City  al 
9  p.m. 

The  iransporlalion  fee  is  payable  in 
the  College  aclivilies  office.  Bardo  Gym 
not  later  than  Tuesday,  Nov.  22. 

Mrs.  Fremiolli  noted  thai  if  there  is 
enough  participation,  fulure  trips  will  be 
planned  and  she  said  she  is  encouraging 
.suidcnts  lo  present  ideas  lo  her. 

Questions  should  be  directed  lo 
Mrs.  Fremiolli  as  College  Ext.  269. 

Dance  scheduled 
for  end  of  month 

The  Vocalional  Induslrial  Clubs  of 
America  (VICA)  organi/alionof  Ihc 
College  will  sponsor  a  Halloween  dance 
al  7  p.m.,  Saturday,  Ocl.  29,  in  Bardo 
Gym,  according  lo  a  College  Informa- 
tion Office  news  release. 

Backlight  Sound  System,  of 
Hughcsvillc,  will  provide  the  music. 

The  cost  is  $1  for  those  in  cosluntc 
and  $1.50  for  others. 


i'l'HIuiiH'll  fniin  Pu^c  /I 

University,  Bclhlehcm;  Lock  Haven 
University,  Lock  Haven;  Lycoming  Col- 
lege, Williamsporl;  Mansfield  Universi- 
ty, Mansfield;  Marywood  College, 
Scranton;  Millersville  Univcrsily, 
Millcrsvillc;  Pennsylvania  Stale  Univcr- 
sily, University  Park;  Robert  Packer 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing,  Sayre; 
Saint  Vincent  College,  Latrobe;  Ship- 
pensburg   University,    Shippensburg; 


Slippery  Rock  Univcrsily,  Slippery 
Rock;  Susquehanna  Univcrsily,  Scl- 
ingrove;  Temple  University, 
Philadelphia;  University  of  Scranton, 
Scranton;  Washington  and  Jefferson 
College,  Washinglon;  Wilkes  College, 
Wilkes-Barre;  and  The  Williamsporl 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing, 
Williamsporl. 


Ocl.  31  is  National  Magic  Day  in 
honor  of  Harry  Houdini. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W   Thud  SI  ,  Williamsporl 

INat  10  Academic  Cenieri 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322  1321 

OPEI\  7 -JO  a.m.  'HI  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


AA  Cer win-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers    you    can    own!       Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  177011] 


Monday.  Ocl.  31,  IMJ    •    Vol.  \1,  No.  9-12  Pases 
Williamsporl  Area  Communily  College    •    Williamsporl.  Pa.  17701 


InSPOTLIGHTDMondiy,  Ocl.  31,  1983 

An  atmospheric 

war  against 
Mother  Nature? 

...in  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  Opinion 

In  the  movie  classic,  Modem  Times,  a  befud- 
dled Charlie  Chaplin  lound  himself  unwillingly  im- 
mersed in  the  trappings  of  advanced  technology 

Not  surprisingly,  the  human  species  still  finds 
Itself  amuck  in  gimmickery  and  inevitability,  river 
by  river,  mountain  by  mountain,  the  condition  of 
the  earth  has  likewise  deteriorated  dramatically 
since  the  film's  inception  in  1936. 
■  ■  ■ 

Today's  "modern  times"  finds  a  "disposal" 
civilization  nose  deep  in  garbage  and  fashioning  a 
kind  of  cosmic  death  cap  by  polluting  the  earth's 
atmosphere  with  carbon  dioxide  (CO,)  gases  and 
accompanying  particles  of  debris  cafled  "par- 
ticulates". 

Termed  the  "greenhouse  effect"  by  the  scien- 
tific community,  this  phenomenon,  simply  defined, 
is  perpetuated  chiefly  through  the  utilization  of 
fossil  fuels,  particularly  (but  not  exclusively)  coal, 
for  industrial  and  personal  uses 

In  essence,  the  atmospheric  buildup  of  CO, 
gases  acts  similarly  to  the  function  of  glass  in  a 
greenhouse  by  permitling  the  sun's  rays  to  warm 
the  earth  and  then  trapping  the  heat. 

Obviously,  the  "nurturing"  of  this  problem 
could  have  catastrophic  worldwide  ramifications, 
inriuriinq   an   pvcniual   increase  in  the  earth's 


^4^ 


average  temperature  with  consequential  disrup- 
tion ol  growing  seasons,  earlier  snowmelts,  later 
first  snowfalls,  and  less  summer  soil  moisture  in 
some  areas  -  in  short,  total  disruption  of  the  cur- 
rent global  life  support  system 

■  ■  ■ 

Since  most  of  us  do  not  want  to  participate  in 
this  atmospheric  war  against  Mother  Nature,  the 
complexity  of  the  situation  may  seem  awesome 
and  our  methods  ol  repsonding  limited,  but  con- 
cern is  the  first  step  toward  solution 

Immediate  options  may  include  intensification 
of  solar  energy  efforls  and/or  increased  nuclear 
power  capabilities  to  curtail  current  sources  judg- 
ed harmful  to  the  atmosphere 

■  ■  ■ 

At  any  rate,  this  is  a  crisis  of  mammoth  pro- 
portions. ,,  A  crisis  demanding  understanding, 
knowledge  and  action  A  crisis  whose  outcome 
could  determine  the  destiny  of  generations  not  yet 
passenoers  on  this  spinning  ball. 

Ponder  the  possibilities  -  your  contribution 
may  make  possible  a  decent  existence  (or  at  least 
a  (air  chance)  lor  those  earthly  inhabitants  at  the 
turn  of  the  next  century. 


Littering...  a  serious 
problem  on  campus 

...in  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  Opinion 

"A  place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its 
place," 

A  cliche''   tvlaybe 

But  where  campus  littering  is  concerned, 
wouldn't  this  cliche  be  appropriate'' 

Debris  can  be  found  -  in  unfitting  places  -  on 
the  College  grounds,  despite  the  conspicuously 
placed  trash  and  cigarette  receptacles. 

The  College's  General  Services  section  has 
strategically   placed   trash  and  cigarette  recep- 
tacles around  the  College  in  an  effort  to  combat 
this  problem.   But  is  it  only  up  to  the  College  staff 
to  eliminate  this  dilemma'' 
■  ■  ■ 
Outside  of  the  Academic  Center  are  two 
cigarette  receptacles  for  smokers'  convenience  of 
extinguishing    cigarettes     before    entering     the 
building.    These,  however,  are  filled  with  paper 
cups,  soda  cans,  and  other  trash. 

Similarly,  cigarettes  are  tossed  carelessly  into 
trash  receptacles  or  left  on  the  sidewalks.  This  on- 
ly causes  extra  work  for  custodial  personnel  but  is 
also  unsightly  and  could  be  a  fire  hazard 

With  sufficient  receptacles  surrounding  us. 
what  explanation  can  be  provided  for  the  hun- 
dreds of  cigarette  butts  tossed  abouf 

Cities  and  rural  areas  -  as  well  as  the  slate  - 
enforce  a  steep  littering  fine  Perhaps  attacking 
the  purse  strings  of  the  students,  faculty,  and  staff 
will  make  everyone  more  awrare  of  where  that 
cigarette  butt  should  go. 


Danse  Macabre 
horror  textbook 

says  Donna  M.  Barnelt 

Avid  horror  lilm  and  fiction  tans 
will  be  fascinated  by  Danse  Macabre. 
a  horror  "textbook"  by  the  mastermind 
of  blood  and  gore,  Stephen  King 

In  this  book.  King,  who  is  the 
author  of  such  bestsellers  as  The  Shin- 
ing. Carrie  and  Cujo.  humorously 
relates  to  the  reader  his  theory  of  the 
macabre. 

■  ■  ■ 

Within  the  10  chapters  of  this 
book,  King  describes  his  first  ex- 
periences with  horror  movies  and 
books,  where  he  got  his  ideas  for  the 
stories  he's  written,  and  provides  ex- 
cerpts from  several  classic  horror 
novels,  such  as  Dracula 

Danse  Macabre  goes  lurther  than 
just  the  fairy  tale  aspects  ol  horror  In 
chapter  five  -  "Radio  and  The  Set  of 
Reality"  -  the  use  of  radio  as  a  fictional 
medium  in  the  50's,  the  effects  a  televi- 
sion version  of  a  story  has  on  its  writer, 
and  the  difference  between  horror  lor 
art  versus  horror  tor  profit  are  derived 

■  ■  ■ 

Chapter  10  -  "The  Last  Waltz. 
Horror  and  IVIorality.  Horror  and  Magic" 
-  will  especially  strike  the  reader's  in- 
tellect King,  using  his  "theory"  based 
upon  the  "basic  horror  story"  talks 
about  how  both  horror  and  things 
parents  say  affect  their  children.  He 
also  defends  himself  against  the  adage 
that  horror  films  are  responsible  for  all 
the  violence  and  murders  of  today 

In  the  conclusion.  King  provides  a 
list  of  1 00  movies  and  books  published 
between  the  years  of  1950-1980  that 
wjll  interest  any  horror  fan 


A  Person  Wlio  Sleais 

from  a  Person  wtio  Has 

Spent  Hours  Helping  Students 

Is  a  Very  Smaii  Person 


'Under  Fire'  thriller 

about  photojournalist 

reviews  Kathryn  M.  Gilbert 

Under  Fire  is  a  movie  about  the 
1979  Nicaraguan  revolution  during 
Somoza's  regime  This  thriller  stars 
Nick  Nolle  as  a  photojournalist  trying  to 
stay  neutral  as  he  witnesses  mass  kill- 
ings during  this  war.  As  time  goes  on 
he  finds  himself  getting  involved  with 
the  leftist  Sandinistas. 

■  ■  ■ 

Gene  Hackman,  a  news  writer 
heading  the  journalist  team  and  Nolte's 
friend,  decides  to  go  back  to  the  states 
for  a  TV  news  reporting  job. 

Both  men  are  in  love  with  Joanna 
Cassidy  who  also  is  a  news  reporter 
working  along  with  them.  Gene 
Hackman  returns  to  Nicaragua  for  a 
news  story  on  the  leftist  guerrilla  leader 
and  is  murdered  by  Somoza's  army 
Because  of  this  event,  Somoza  was 
abandoned  by  the  United  States  and 
the  revolution  was  over. 

■  ■  ■ 

The  movie  gives  insight  on 
dangers  of  being  a  journalist  in  a 
foreign  country  during  a  war  and  the 
political  events  that  took  place  during 
that  lime.  The  movie  is  stimulating  and 
it  keeps  the  viewer  in  suspense.  Under 
Fire  will  stick  tn  your  mind  long  after 
you  have  seen  it. 


SPOTLIGHT 

The 

SPOTLIGHT      IS 

published 

ach  Monday  morn- 

inq  ol  the 

academic  yeat   by 

joutnalism 

nd  olher  interested 

sludeiils    t 

1    ttie    Williamsporl 

nmiinity    Colleqe. 

1005       \ 

'         Third       SI  , 

Williamspo 

t,     Pa      17701 

Telephone 

326-3761,     ExI 

^- 


Tile    opinions    expressed 
are    tliose    ot    the    student 
'lewsnaper.     ol    mdividuat 
wfiteis  or  ol  individuals  inter- 
viewed and  do  not  fefiect  the 
opinion  oi  the  institution 

Produclio 

Thomas  H 
Joan  L   Tl 

Irioniery. 
visor:     SI 
Bolifrl  W 
0      Gia^ 

1  team  (his  issue: 

Long,  copy  pditoi 

Thomas     F      tuloii- 
piodui  linn    siit.nr- 
nwii     W      Hovoilv. 
Miniiir.  and  GimjI.t 
loy.     |„„dui:t,on 

riie    SPOruOHT    is    a 
member    nl    Ihe    Columbia 
Sciiolasiic  Press  Associaiipn 

SPOTLIGHTnMonday,  Oct.  31,  1983^3 


Mario  Caldera  named  chairman 
of  College  Board  of  Trustees 


Students  funding 
pictorial  display 
gift  for  new  center 

The  Studenl  Governmcnl  Associa- 
tion Transition  Commillee  is  currcnlly 
in  ihe  process  of  purchasing  seven  pic- 
torial collages  for  the  new  Lifelong 
Education  Center. 

A  $1,000  fund  for  this  project  was 
taken  out  of  the  College  Activity  Fund. 
.  The  major  sources  for  this  fund  are  stu- 
,  dent  government  collections,  student  ac- 
tivity fees,  vending  machines,  telephone 
revenue,  Tot  Watch,  Cinema  Club, 
SPOTLIGHT,  concert  committee.  Col- 
lege activity  van  fees,  catered  events, 
special  events,  and  idenlificalion  cards, 
slated  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

The  pictorials  -  with  pictures  being 
taken  by  Media  Center  personnel  ~  will 
be  done  one-a-month  for  the  next 
several  months. 

They  will  incorporate  the  seven  ma- 
jor divisions  of  the  College:  Earth 
Science,  which  is  already  complete; 
Business  and  Computer  Science; 
Humanities  and  Communication  Arts; 
Mathematics,  Science,  and  Allied 
Health;  Construction  Technology;  High 
Technology,  and  Transportation 
Technology. 

A  major  display  wall  in  the 
Lifelong  Education  Center  will  be  the 
focal  point  of  view,  according  to 
Chester  D.  Schuman,  director  of  admis- 
sions. 

The  Transition  Committee  over  the 
summer  decided  it  wanted  to  present 
Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  president,  and 
the  College  with  something  and  thought 
the  pictorial  would  be  a  "nice  idea", 
Schuman  said. 

Mrs.  Fremiotti  chose  two  active 
members  of  the  Transition  Committee  - 
Thomas  P.  Brady  and  Ruth  A.  Fischer 
-  to  present  the  gift  to  Dr.  Breuder. 


Agribusiness 
Club  elects 
Larry  A.  Swartz 

The  Agribusiness  Club  has  elected 
officers  for  the  year.  The  new  officers 
are  Larry  A.  Swartz,  president;  Martin 
J.  Sukley,  vice  president,  and  Terry  A. 
Gingher,  treasurer. 

Swartz  stated  the  officers  are 
agribusiness  students  elected  by  students 
in  the  agribusiness  program.  The  club 
meets  once  a  month  in  Ihe  College 
Library,  Learning  Resources  Center. 

Swartz  also  said  that  in  the  spring 
the  club  plans  to  visit  agribusiness 
facilities  and  other  businesses  dealing 
with  the  program. 

Tot  Watch  party  held 

Parents  and  Friends  of  Tot  Watch 
sponsored  a  Halloween  party  last  Satur- 
day for  members  and  Ihcir  guests,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Mary  L.  Bardo, 
manager  of  Tol  Walch.  The  organiza- 
tion also  had  a  meeting  at  that  lime, 
said  Mrs.  Bardo. 


By  Joan  L.  Thompson 
Spoliielil  AdminMlralive  Affair§  Kdilor 

A  man  of  diverse  inleresls,  Mario 
Caldera,  has  taken  over  the  position  of 
chairman  of  the  College  Board  of 
Trustees  upon  the  resignation  of  Mrs. 
Gay  Campbell,  who  has  moved  from 
the  area. 

Caldera,  who  is  executive  director 
of  the  Williamsport  Parking  Authority, 
has  a  broad  background  in  ad- 
ministrative affairs.  He  has  been  on  the 
Board  of  Trustees  for  eight  years  and 
served  as  vice  chairman  since  July  of 
this  year. 

Previously,  he  served  12  years  on 
the  South  Williamsport  Area  School 
Board  and  held  the  position  of  president 
from  1975  until  1979.  For  a  year  and  a 
half,  he  served  as  chairman  of  the  South 
Williamsport  Area  School  Authority. 

Caldera  said  that  his  "one  regret" 
upon  assuming  the  chair  is  that  he  will 
be  unable  to  take  as  active  a  role  on  the 
Trustees'  Building  and  Grounds  Com- 
mittee as  he  has  in  the  past,  He  had 
been  a  member  of  that  committee  for 
five  years  and  also  served  as  its  chair- 
man. 

He  noted  the  College  has  progress- 
ed "far  beyond  anyone's  imagination." 

When  a  five-member  search  com- 
mittee was  selected  to  find  a  new  presi- 
dent for  the  College,  Caldera  was 
among  the  five  who  interviewed  the  ap- 
plicants. Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder  was 
selected  for  the  position  and  "has  done 
everything  that  was  expected  of  him  and 
much  more,"  Caldera  stated. 

Of  his  five  children,  two  have 
graduated  from  the  aviation  curriculum 
here  and  have  been  very  successful  in 
their  field. 

Therefore,  Caldera  said  he  feels  his 


dedication  to  the  College  is  his  way  of 
"paying  back  some  of  the  good  the  Col- 
lege has  done  for  us,"  he  said. 

For  30  years  he  managed  a  clothing 
store,  Dundee's,  in  downtown 
Williamsport.  And  before  that,  he 
managed  a  dairy  farm  for  three  years. 

He  and  his  wife,  Evelyn,  are  avid 
motorcycle  enthusiasts  and  take  time, 
on  occasion,  to  go  touring  and  camp- 
ing. Boating  is  another  hobby  they 
both  enjoy. 

The  tru.stees  elected  Mrs.  Kathryn 
Lumley,  of  Rauchtown,  to  fill  the  vice 
chairmanship  vacated  by  Caldera. 

'Poor  showings' 
at  SGA  meetings 
says  Tom  Brady 

The  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  is  in  the  process  of  arrang- 
ing meetings  with  the  various  College 
divisions,  according  to  Thomas  P. 
Brady,  SGA  executive. 

According  to  Brady,  (he  meetings 
arc  designed  to  be  a  chance  for  students 
to  give  input  and  make  suggestions  so 
improvements  can  be  made  to  help 
them. 

"We've  had  very  poor  showings. 
We  still  hear  people  griping  about 
nothing  being  done  and  thai  the  student 
government's  not  doing  anything.  They 
evidently  don't  read  the  paper  or  they 
would  have  shown  up  for  these 
meetings,"  said  Brady. 

So  far,  only  four  divisions  have 
been  represented,  said  Brady,  and  alten- 
dance  has  been  very  sparse. 

Brady  stressed  that  student  input  is 
very  important  to  make  SGA  work. 


Salem's  witchcraft  scare  began  in 
1692.  A  slave  girl  named  Tituba  told 
voodoo  tales  causing  some  local  girls  to 
have  nightmares. 


Marcus  brothers  to  present  two  concerts  tomorrow 


Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  will  per- 
form at  8  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

They  will  also  perform  from  11:30 
a.m  to  12:30  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the 
auditorium. 

The  Marcus  brothers  presenl  a 
combination  of  classical  guitar  and 
jazz  They  write  their  own  songs  arid 
music  The  brothers  have  also  written 
and  recorded  nalionally-aired  television 
and  radio  commercials  and  performed 
at  over  200  colleges  in  the  United  States. 

Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  were 
selected  by  the  Mid-Atlantic  States  Art 
Consortium  to  be  part  of  Ihe  1981-82 
season. 

The  admission  for  the  concert  is 
free.  Specific  questions  may  be  directed 
to  Mrs.  Fremiotti  at  College  Ext.  269. 


'lDSPOTLIGHTDMoiid»>.  Oc(.  )\.  198.1 

Whaddya'  say...? 

Question:  What  are  you  go- 
ing to  dress  like  lor  Halloween?    ^       ,.  ,     .    .  -r  .  ...  . 
j^^  ,                                             Question  asked  at  Tot  Watch 


Photos  by  Joan  L.  Thompson 
Interviews  by  Robert  W.  Minier 
Both  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


Gian  Luca,  son  ol  Mrs  JoAnn  R 
Fremiolli:  "A  lion  because  Mommy 
wants  me  to  dress  like  a  lion."    11 


ro II 


Laura  C'jmilz,  daughler  of  Palrick 
Comiiz  "Cheer  Bear  because  I  like 
Care  Bears  "  11 


Sardre  Slifals,  daughter  ol  Linda 
Sheals      "Strawberry    Shortcake 
Because  i  trke  Strawberry  Shortcake  " 
il 


Chance  Moore,  son  ol  Mar|orre 
Dunlop:  "A  mummy  .  so  I  can  scare 
everybodyi '  || 


Opinions  being  sought 
about  advising,  scheduling 

Advising  and  sclicduling  for  Spring 
1984  now  is  underway.  A  commillec 
chaired  by  R.  Dean  Fosler,  direclor  of 
devclopmeni  studies,  now  is  examining 
the  advising  and  sctieduling  process. 

Sludcnls  and  faculty  who  wish  lo 
give  ihcir  opinion  about  ihe  negative 
and  positive  aspecis  of  the  current 
sysicm  of_  advising  and  scheduling  are 
asked,  Foster  said,  lo  stop  by  the 
development  studies  ofllce.  Room  162, 
of Ihc  Learning  Resources  Cenlcr  or  lo 
call  College  Ext.  266. 


14  Land  of  the 
free  abbr 

15  Existed 

16  Stubborn 

17Soulfi 


African 
Dutcliman 
18  TufI  of 
lealtier 

20  26lh  Pres. 

21  Liquid  meas 

23  Beverage 

24  Evening  party 
28  tvlusician  s 

30  Sels  of  three 

dramas 
32  Word  ol 

34  Hrgh  card 

35  Classify 

36  Able 

39  Slalemale 

40  Guaranlee 
4  1  Obstruct 

43  Comparalive 
ending 

44  Scale  note 

45  Repulse 

47  Farm  build- 
ing 

50  Rem 

51  Poem 

54  Be  in  debt 

55  Downy  duck 

56  Uncooked 

57  tn  music,  high 

58  Ogles 

59  Change  Ihe 
color  ol 

DOWN 
1  Not  many 


2  Money  of 

3  Grate 

4  Violent 


Suf 

8  Charles  — 
Gaulle 

9  Pair 

10  Employ 

1 1  Prohibil 
17  Ships 

prisons 

19  Scale  note 

20  Also 

21  Tranquility 

22  Claw 

24  Slimmer 

25  Disturbance 

26  Uncanny 

27  Chemical 
compound 

29  Flock 


Last  Week's  Puzzle 

L    A^-BO    ,    _L^U    T    Y 

•  "M^ '  imt" '  * 

->    ENfcIl     Llofftei    E    L 

I       DDE]    EDa    BBOll 

E    R   n|   A_l    J-    T    Eira    S 

T    1    1    S    T    R^    E    LJh    T 

spate|tad|?re 

II    =ll    B    E0|!    L    EM 

* " :  (i  1  £  1  ■  f  *  1  1 

L   A|    vTr   A|    T    E    E    T?? 

AN    T_J|r?ar|e    la 

S    E   a{m|da    LiHo    1    M 

— 


31  Dessert  Ire 
33  Reject 

37  Before 

38  Candles 

42  NHs  neigh- 
bor 

45  Be  borne 

46  Nobleman 

47  Neckpiece 


48  Shoemaker's 
tool 

49  Soak 

50  Hasten 

52  Time  period 

53  Flock 
member 

55  Overhead 


' 

2       3 

1 

* 

5- 

6 

' 

8- 

1 

9 

W" 

TT 

13 

14 

lb 

■  ^M 

< 

■  ""^ 

iBHI 

23 

■  "  1 

25 

26 

27 

.,30 

31 

1 

33,34 

3/ 

r 

38     M39 

m 

41 

42 

1 

43     J 

i 

44 

|45 

■  ■ 

47 

r 

Ji 

1 

51     52     53 

04 

r 

b6 

56 

. 

59 

.4«vir(';-  111  lliis  week's  puzzle:  next  iveek 


Sessions  offered  to  aid  job  search 

Any  student  entering  the  job  market  can  receive  help  by  attending  ses- 
sions offered  by  Ihe  Counseling,  Career  Development,  and  Placemen! 
staff,  according  lo  Weldon  W.  Michael,  counselor. 

The  sessions  will  deal  with  job  search,  resume  writing,  and  interview- 
ing skills.  Interested  sludcnls  may  go  lo  ihc  CCDP  Ofllce,  Room  157 
Learning  Resources  Cenler,  or  call  College  ExI.  246  to  make  reservations 
for  ihe  sessions  offered. 

Those  sessions  include: 


DATE  AND  TIME 


inding  openings 


stirring  employer  intt 


3:00  -  4:30 
12:00  -  1:30 
3:00  -  4:30 


Nov 

15, 

2:00  -    1 

10 

Nov 

15, 

4:00  -  5 

10 

Nov 

16, 

4:00  -  5 

30 

Nov 

17, 

2:00  -   1 

in 

Nov 

21, 

3:00  -   4 

in 

Nov 

22, 

3:00  -   4 

30 

LRC  205A 
Earth  Sciei 
LRC  205A 

Earth  Sciei 
LRC  155 
LRC  205A 

Earth  Scier 
LRC  205A 
LRC  155 


Journalism  instructor  to  speak 
at  PSPA  state  convention 

Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  journalism,  will  conduct 
workshop  sessions  on  Friday,  Nov.  4, 
and  Saturday,  Nov.  5,  al  the  Penn- 
sylvania School  Press  Association  stale 
convention. 

The  associalion  includes  members 
from  high  schools  Ihroughoul  Ihe  stale. 

Olio  will  conduct  sessions  related 
I"  news  reporting,  lo  writing  of 
newspaper  feature  articles,  and  to 
writing  yearbook  material. 

The  convciilion  will  be  held  in  Har- 
risburg. 


BARRY'S 

Third  Street 

Sandwich  Parlor 

and  Arcade 

Brooklyn-style  Eatary 
330-32  W.  Third  St.,  Wiiiiamsport 


Open  Daily 
For  Breakfast 

Hours:  Mon.  &  Tues. 

6a.m.-12Midnigtit 

Wed.Sun.  open  24  tirs. 

•  N«w  Yofli  Btyk  Iwt  dofi 

•  0>i>l>M  *lil)k  ardMia 


■  itM  t  Soup  Bar 

»Buritot 


PERFORMING   AT   Ihe   HalUiween   Bash   las)   Wednes(la\    is    Addison 
Avenue.  The  dance  was  sponsored  by  Ihe  Arlisis  UnlimKed  Club.  /SPOTLIGHT 

p/idlo  by  Richuril  E.  Kopp  Jr.j 


ACC  Auditorium 
Admission  $1.00 


TONIGHT 

7:30 


Coming  Attraction 

NEXT  MONDAY: 

Raiders  of  the  Lost  Ark 

Dun  7  miss  litis  Ihriller! 

Same  time,  same  place! 


GETTING  IN  THE  SPIRIT  of  Ihe  season  are  (from  lefl)  Lori  M.  Lane,  Richard 
E.  Kopp  Jr.,  Perry  D.  Peniz,  Mary  L.  Pease,  and  Thomas  H.  Long  prior  lo  lasl 
Wednesday  nighl's  Halloween  dance  and  "bash"  sponsored  by  Arlisis  Unlimiled. 
Aboul  150  persons  allended  Ihe  eveni,  held  In  Bardo  Gym.  /SPOTLIGHT pliolo/ 

Upcoming  flicks  listed;  suggestions? 

The  schedule  of  upcoming  movies  lo  be  presenlcd  in  Ihc  Academic  Center 
Audilorium  includes  Raiders  of  I  lie  Lost  Ark,  Monday,  Nov.  7;  Biilch  Cassidy 
and  Ihe  Sundance  Kid.  Monday,  Nov.  \i;Porkey's,  Monday,  Nov.  21,  and  The 
Sling,  Monday,  Dec.  5. 

All  movies  slan  al  7:30  p.m.  and  the  admission  for  each  is  $1. 

Sludenls  who  have  suggestions  for  movies  they  would  like  lo  see  are  being  ask- 
ed lo  conlad  any  Student  Govcrnnicnl  Association  member;  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  College  adivities,  or  Chester  D. 
Schuman,  director  of  admissions. 

Dean  Hurley  serves  as  evaluator 


Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of 
educational  research,  planning  and 
evaluation,  recently  returned  from  a 
four-day  visit  to  Passaic  County  Com- 
munity College,  Patterson,  N.J. 

"I  was  involved  first-hand  with  an 
evaluation  visit,"  said  Dean  Hurley, 
who  acted  as  an  associate  member  of  an 
evaluation  team  with  the  Middle  States 
Evaluation  Association. 

Dean  Hurley,  who  is  also  involved 
with  long  range  planning  al  the  College, 
wiincs.sed  evaluation  teams  al  work, 
how  they  utilize  materials,  how  a  college 
develops  and  the  approaches  it  lakes. 


The  Middle  Stales  Evaluation 
Association  covers  the  mid-Atlantic 
region.  "All  of  the  (team)  people  are 
from  community  colleges,"  Dean 
Hurley  said. 

The  evaluation  team  consisted  of 
Dean  Hurley  and  representatives  from 
Penn.sylvania,  Maryland,  New  Jersey, 
and  a  team  leader  from  Chicago. 

"The  intent  is  to  assure  people  that 
their  college  is  doing  what  it  says  it's 
doing...  to  make  a  better  college," 
Dean  Hurley  added. 


There  arc  27  bones  in  Ihc  hand. 


BENSON 


°^ 


Off!  mini   ^ 
f^m  market 


K 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Mcynord  Sts. 

Gas  Groceries 

Snacks      Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays 


J 


6DSPOTLIGHTDMond«>,  Ocl.  31,  1983 


7  By  SPOTLIGHT  GhosI  Writer 
Gregory  W.  Huff 


^^H^^Hayrides.  coslume  panics,  bobbing  for  apples  -  all  pari  of  Halloween, 
L  /B^B  thai  seemingly  innoceni  occurrence  when  Icafslrewn  sireels  arc 
•0  JL  JL  lil  by  candles  flickering  Ihrough  Ihe  eyes  of  carved  pumpkins. 
And  shadows  seem,  well...  more  shadowy. 

Surprisingly,  Ihis  favorile  American  rilual  is  nol  really  ihal  American  al  all 
and  has  some  preily  inlercsling,  somelimes  bizzare,  and  even  (yipes)  unholy  qualilies 
allached  lo  il. 

So,  hold  on  lo  your  broomslick,  (abm  cadabra  and  all  iiiai.)  here,  taken  from 
Mrs.  Helen  Borlen's  illuslraled  book,  Halloween,  is  a  ghoulish  (mm)  account  of 
what  today  is,  or  al  least,  was  all  about. 

Hundreds  of  years  before  Ihe  birlh  of  Christ,  Ihe  Cells,  who  inhabiled  ancient 
Gaul  (France)  and  Ihe  Briiish  Isles,  held  an  autumn  festival  called  "Samhara", 
meaning  "end  of  summer". 


y  B^  sscniially,  il  was  a  festival  presided  over  by  Druids,  (pricsis)  marking 
f  iB  1  .  Ihe  bringing  in  of  Ihe  harvesl.  Characlerislically,  parlicipanis 
^^cJAwtf  feasted  on  Ihe  foods  grown  during  Ihe  summer  while  the  Druids 
offered  sacrifices  lo  Ihe  sun  god  and  Ihe  god  of  Ihe  dead,  whose  spirils  along  with 
assorted  ghosts,  fairies,  elves  and  wilches  visilcd  earth  during  Sanihain  ,so  the  Cells 
believed.  Accordingly,  the  Cells,  nol  being  foolish,  conslruclcd  great  bonfires  on 
hillsides  lo  frighleii  away  wandering  spooks. 

Years  later,  Ihe  Romans  came  lo  Brilian  and  continued  a  custom  of  a  harvesl 
celebration,  adding  fragments  of  their  own  culture  lo  Samhain,  including  the  inl- 
Iroduclion  of  nuts  and  apples  to  Ihe  proceedings  -  an  clemeni  still  practiced  today. 


Ilimalely,  Christian  influence  replaced  Druid  and  Roman  religions 
and  the  Christian  church  eventually  soughl  a  day  to  honor  all  its 
saints.  November  Isl  was  selected  and  became  known  as  All 
Hallows  or  All  Saints'  Day.  The  evening  before  was  called  All  Hallow's  Even 
which  means  "holy  evening".    Laler,  Ihe  name  was  shortened  lo  Halloween. 

Despile  its  apparent  connection  lo  Christianity,  Ihe  cclebralion  of  Halloween 
continued  lo  embrace  some  Druid  customs  including  Ihe  sacrificing  of  horses  and 
oxen  and  retirement  of  Ihe  belief  lhal  goblins,  ghosts  and  wilches  (wilches  were  very 
"big"  then)  made  earthly  pilgrimages. 

Naturally,  ihe  Church  strove  lo  squelch  the  practice  of  "wilchcrafl",  but  in- 
dividuals often  banded  together  forming  witches'  sabbaths  in  opposition  lo  the  ef- 
forts of  Ihe  Church.  Al  these  sabbalhs,  parlicipanis  (wilches,  lhal  is)  feasted,  sang, 
danced  wildly  in  a  ring  and  tossed  in  an  occasional  chant. 

Wilches  sabbalhs  were  reportedly  held  in  Germany,  Sweden,  France  and  Bri- 
lian with  those  involved  supposedly  arriving  on  broomsticks  often  accompanied  by 
black  cats  perched  behind  them. 


Counseling  available  for  those  seeking  scheduling  help 


Since  spring  semester  class  registra- 
tion is  approaching,  the  Counseling, 
Career  Development,  and  Placement 
Office  staff  will  assist  people  who  need 
help  in  dclermining  the  courses  lo  take 
lor  Ihe  spring  semester,  according  lo 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  of 
Counseling,  Career  Development,  and 
Placement 


"We  are  especially  concerned  with 
unclassified  students  [those  with  no 
declared  major|  or  those  nol  assigned 
an  adviser,"  said  Emery. 

Any  student  desiring  Ihis  lype  of 
aid  should  make  an  appoinlmeni, 
Emery  .said,  by  calling  ihe  Counseling, 
Career  Development,  and  Placemeni 
Officer  at  College  Exicnsion  246. 


JACK-0-LANTEKNS  in  all  shapes  and  sizes  will  glow  today  with  lols  of 
gleam  because  Ihis  is  Halloween.   /SPOTLIGHT  pimlo  by  Lori  M.  Lane/ 


Does  Your  Group  Need  Money? 
Leaf  Fund  Raising 

...Is  seeking  special  inleresi  groups  or  clubs 
to  sponsor  in  fund  raising  campaigns 


ConlacI:  322-3508 


\n  Cash  Ouilay 
Minimiiiii  Cliih  Work 


SPOTLICHTDMoodsy,  Oct.  31,  I»«3d7 


^ 


L  H,^  lack  cals  (unforlunalcly  for  Ihcm)  were  Ihoughl  lo  be  mascols  of  llic 
)  I  |k        wilchcs  or  sometimes  even  wilches  in  disguise.  Consequently,  in 

J^^^  Ireland,  black  cals  were  often  thrown  into  Halloween  bonfires  as 
warning  to  other  witches. 

Not  10  be  outdone,  farmers  in  Scotland,  Ireland  and  Scandinavia  sometimes 
wrapped  pitchforks  with  straw  and  set  fire  to  them,  waving  them  in  the  air  lo  singe 
the  broom  of  any  witch  just  happening  by. 

Even  today,  remnenis  of  the  ancient  Roman  and  Druid  customs  are  still  prac- 
ticed in  Scotland  and  Ireland.  Country  people  still  occasionally  build  bonfires  on 
hilltops  and  persist  in  the  waving  of  flaming  pitchforks  in  the  air. 

Credit  for  the  practice  of  Halloween  in  this  country  is  given  to  the  Irish  and 
Scots  who  eventialiy  brought  their  Halloween  customs  to  America.  It  was  not, 
however,  until  the  I840's  --  after  the  arrival  of  many  Irish  --  that  Halloween  was 
celebrated  throughout  the  United  Stales. 

In  the  early  days  of  its  inception  in  this  country,  October  3lsl  traditionally 
meant  practical  jokes,  ducking  for  apples  and  swapping  ghost  stories. 


\\  H     he  custom  of  trick  or  treating  is  traced  lo  an  old  English  practice 
^H  called  "a  souling".  On  All  Souls' Day  in  England,  people  used 

.jH..  to  go  from  house  lo  house  calling,  "A  soulcake,  a  soulcake,  a 
penny  or  a  soulcake!"  In  return  for  these  currant  buns,  or  "soulcakes",  the  reci- 
pients said  prayers  for  the  souls  of  the  giver's  dead  relatives. 

Oh!  And  of  course,  what's  Halloween  without  jack-o'-lanterns,  which  in- 
cidently,  were  first  fashioned  from  large  potatoes  and  turnips  by  the  Irish  since 
there  were  no  pumpkins  in  Ireland  years  ago.  Candles  were  put  inside  lo  make  a 
type  of  lantern. 

The  inclusion  of  jack-o'-lanterns  in  Halloween  festivities  is  supposedly  as  a 
result  of  the  plight  of  a  man  named  Jack.  According  lo  Irish  legend.  Jack  was  kept 
out  of  heaven  because  he  was  stingy.  Likewise,  the  gales  of  hell  were  similarly  clos- 
ed lo  him  becau.se  he  had  allegedly  played  jokes  on  the  devil.  Con.sequcntly,  the 
legend  goes,  poor  Jack,  doomed,  had  to  walk  the  Earth  forever  carrying  only  a 
lantern. 


^R  ■     oia.-^,  the  celebration  of  Halloween  remains  a  favorite  national 

QgpH  holiday,  rich  in  folklore  and  crammed  with  mischief.     So, 

^^  JL.  tonight,  whether  you're  piloting  a  car  or  a  broomstick,  seeking  a 

wilches  parly  or  "which"  parly,  drive  carefully,  watch  out  for  low  flying  goblins 

and  above  all,  remember:  a  black  cat  lurking  silently  in  the  shadows  of  a  deserted 

street  may  be. ..just  a  black  cat. 


Grab 
your  pitchfork  (?) 

•  •  •  f  f  IS 

(gulp) 

Halloween 


'f 


St.  Jean  sends  'heartfelt  tlianks' 

A  letter  of  appreciation  was  sent  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breudcr,  College  president, 
by  the  Susquehanna  Council  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  lo  acknowledge  the  con- 
tribution of  the  Forest  Technicians  Association  of  the  College  in  the  Lycoming 
District  Boy  Scout  Camporee. 

Members  served  as  instructors  and  event  judges  for  the  event  held  at 
Ravensburg  State  park  during  ihe  weekend  of  Sept.  23,  24,  and  25. 

'/idcnnis  St.  Jean,  assistant  Scout  executive,  noted  that  the  students  were  very 
professional  and  expressed  genuine  interest  in  the  Scouts  and  in  their  leaders. 

Expressing  his  "heartfelt  thanks",  St.  Jean  said  that  that  provided  a  "perfeci 
example  of  what  a  valuable  community  resource  the  College  is". 

Construction  students  help  form  local  chapter 

Students  majoring  in  architecture.  Members  of  Ihe  organization  have 

masonry,  carpentry  and  other  programs  been  helping  out  in  the  construction  of 

that  deal  with  conslruclion,  make  up  Ihe  the  Professional  Development  Center, 

Norlhcenlral  Pennsylvania  Chapter  of  according  lo  Jo.seph  G.  Mark,  instruc- 

Construclion  Specifications.  tor,  architectural  technology  and  club 

This     organization     schedules  adviser.  This  type  of  experience  enables 

seminars  and  workshops  throughout  the  the  students  lo  gel  a  first-hand  look  ai 

year    lo   give   the   students   a    better  how  building  construction  is  planned 

understanding  of  the  field  and  complclcd,  he  said. 


LAST  CHANCE  l«  carve  Ihose  pumpkins  and  have  a  Happy  HOLLOW- 
een.   ISPOTLIGHT  ptioto  by  Lori  M.  LaiieJ 


8aSPOTLIGHTDMond»y.  Ocl.  31,  1983 

Students  serve 
Open  House  buffet 

The  Norlh  Campus  Open  Hiuise 
on  Saturday  and  Sunday.  Oci.  22  and 
23,  included  a  buffcl  and  catering  by 
second-year  food  and  hospiialily 
managemcnl  sludcnls. 

According  lo  Thomas  J.  Besi  Jr., 
second-year  food  and  hospiialily 
managemeni  sludenl  from  LewisbiuL' 
and  Norlh  Campus  buffcl  chairman  and 
organizer,  Ihe  menu  was: 

Crudile  (assorled  raw  vegelablcs) 
wilh  a  creamy  Caraway  cheese  dip  and 
bread  rolls;  salads  including  spinach, 
sproul,  and  "Salad  Norlh  Campus'  ;  n 
cornucopia  filled  wilh  crcsceni  rolls. 

Also,  enlrccs  of  chicken  and  cham- 
pagne, a  .standing  rib  roasl  wilh  wild 
rice  pilaf;  accompanying  vegetable 
dishes  including  Ralaloville  (an  Italian 
vegetable  slew)  and  walnut  carrots. 

Dessert  consisted  of  cheesecake, 
"Sept.  7  cake",  and  a  pumpkin  rum 
mousse. 

Agribusiness  Club  now 
conducting  raffle 

The  Agribusiness  Club  is  holding 
its  fall  raffle. 

Tickets  are  $1  and  can  be  obtained 
from  any  club  member,  slated  Larry  A. 
Swarti!,  club  president. 

Several  prizes  are  being  offered;  the 
top  prize  is  $60  in  cash. 

The  drawing  will  be  on  Nov.  18. 


MEN... 

IF  YOU'RE  EIGHTEEN, 

YOU  SHOULD  BE  REGISTERING 

FOR  MORE  THAN 

COURSES. 


THIS  IS  North  Campus,  Wellsboro,  where  open  house  was  conducted  on 
Ocl.  22  and  23.   /SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  bv  Lori  M.  Lane/ 

Battle  against  litter  continues 

"The  College  is  your  home  away  lainers  she  said,  and  u.se  Ihe  appropriate 

from  home.     Sludcnls  should  respect  one  when  snuffing  out  a  cigarclle  or 

this,"  said  Mrs.  Jo  Ann  R.  Fremiotti,  throwing  away  soda  cans, 

coordiiialor  of  intramural  sporls  and  "If  you  .see  someone  littering,  tell 

College  adivilies.  them  about  it,"  she  said.   The  littering 

While  littering  is  not  a  large  pro-  thai  is  on  campus  now  may  resull  from 

blem  on  campus  now,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  insufficient  trash  containers, 

noicd  it  may  become  one.  Mrs.  Fremiotti  added  that  it's  up 

Sludcnls  should  recogni/e  Ihe  dif-  lo  the  sludcnls  lo  Icl  her  know  if  more 

fcrcncc  between  cigarette  and  trash  con-  containers  arc  needed. 

Sludenf  practical  nurses 

to  staff  booth  at  mall 

The  College's  sludenl  practical 
nurses  are  working  in  conjunction  wilh 
Divine  Providence  Hospital's  Pcdialrics 
and  Emergency  Deparlmenis  on  a  child 
health  and  safely  program,  according  lo 
Mrs.  Jackie  Ellis,  instructor. 

The  hospital  was  to  have  spon.sored 
a  booth  at  the  Lycoming  Mall  la.sl 
Thursday,  Friday,  and  Saturday.  The 
students  were  lo  have  helped  with  thai 
project.  Assisting,  too,  was  Mrs,  Caryll 
A.  Eck,  another  instructor. 


Registration  with  Selective  Service  is  an  important 
responsibility  required  by  law.  If  you're  eighteen  or 
within  a  month  of  your  eighteenth  bmhday,  you  should 
register.  To  register,  go  to  any  U.S  Post  Ofhce, 
pick  up  a  card  and  fill  it  out.  It  only  takes  about  hve 
minutes.  That's  not  a  lot  to  ask  for  a  country  as  great  as 
Register.  It's  quick.  It's  easy.  And  it's  the  law. 


North  Campus 
Open  House: 
'great  success' 
says  Mrs.  Addy 

The  North  Campus  Open  House 
which  was  held  Saturday  and  Sunday, 
Ocl.  22  and  23,  was  a  "great  success", 
according  lo  Mrs.  Kathryn  E.  Addy, 
director  of  the  North  Campus, 

An  esliinaled  500  persons  atlcnded. 

Dcmonslralions  were  given  in  ihe 
Audiovisual  Technology  Lab  and  in  the 
Computer  Lab.  Thomas  M.  Winder, 
assisiani  professor  of  computer  science, 
and  Lcc  A.  Root,  parl-lime  inslrudor 
of  cmnpuier  science  ai  ihe  Norlh  Cam- 
pus, were  the  instructors  on  hand,  .said 
Mrs.  Addy. 

Also,  in  the  Nursing  Lab,  free 
blood  pressure  tests  were  given. 

Throughout  the  North  Campus 
were  exhibits  of  oil  and  water  color 
paintings,  graphics,  pottery,  and  weav- 
ing -  all  of  which  were  donated  by  local 
artists. 

After  the  Open  House,  a  dinner 
was  held  in  the  sludenl  lounge  wilh  90 
persons  in  allendance.  The  dinner  was 
held  lo  recognize  persons  involved  in 
funding  the  firsi  branch  campus 
(Norlh  Campus)  of  the  College,  said 
Mrs.  Addy. 

0.  Richard  Bartlelt,  chairman  of 
Ihe  Tioga  County  Commissioners,  of 
Wellsboro,  presenlcd  two  paintings  lo 
Ihe  Norlh  Campus.  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Brcudcr.  College  president,  was  on 
hand  lo  accept  the  paintings. 

Students  to  do  work 

Students  majoring  in  plumbing  and 
healing  at  Ihe  College  will  be  doing  all 
Ihe  work  needed  lo  be  done  in  those 
areas  in  the  new  Lifelong  Educali(ni 
Center  now  under  conslruclion,  accor- 
ding lo  William  A.  Kranz,  inslrudor  of 
plumbing  and  healing. 

Working  on  Ihe  building,  he  .said, 
is  beneficial  lo  the  students  because  it 
provides  on-the-job  training.  The 
healing  syslems  and  all  plumbing  will  be 
inslalled  by  Ihe  sludcnls. 


Highspeed 
High  Fidelity. 


yiLPINE 

car  audio  systems 

M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

25  W.  Church  Si.     323-2622 

i(ln  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building); 


'TAP  IHI'.M  lOKS'  -  l-ivel>  ptrfiirmanie  bv  Riverhital  Kaj;liine  Revue  was  first 
publie  prescntalion  --  tosponsored  b)  Williamsporl  Reircalion  ('ommission  --  in 
newlj  returbished  Academic  Ccnler  Audilorium.  fSPUTLIGHl  plwlo  by  Lori  M. 
Lanej 

NAA  sponsors  annual  dinner 


The  Susquehanna  Valley  Chapler 
of  the  National  Associalion  of  Accoun- 
lanls  sponsored  its  annual  student  night 
for  college  accounting  majors  at  The 
Hillside  Restaurant  earlier  this  month. 

The  College  was  represented  by 
Mrs.  Rita  Ulrich,  assistant  professor  of 
business  administration;  Barbara  E. 
Hunter,  accounting  student  from 
Williamsport;  Thomas  P.  Machmer,  ac- 
counting student  from  Canton;  Connie 
Miller,  accounting  student  from  Mon- 
toursvillc,  and  Thomas  H.  Salisbury, 
business  management  student  from 
Beech  Creek. 


The  purpose  of  the  special  evening 
was  to  acquaint  the  students  with  the 
organization  and  to  establish  a  relation- 
ship between  business  and  academic 
communities.  It  also  was  lo  allow 
students  to  take  advantage  of  the 
chapter's  services  and  its  activities. 

Field  representative  David 
Gulberlet,  of  the  Williamsport  Social 
Security  Office,  was  the  guest  speaker. 
Gutberlel  spoke  about  current  Social 
Security  issues,  said  Mrs.  Ulrich. 

The  associalion,  in  cooperation 
with  various  local  businesses,  provided 
the  dinner  for  the  students. 


Ragtime  Revue 
loaded  with 


fei,  excitement 


By  Lori  M.  Lane 
0(  Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  Slaff 

Singing,  dancing,  toe-tapping, 
hand-dapping  and  "all  thai  jazz"  was 
part  of  the  excitement  that  evolved  dur- 
ing the  performance  of  the  Riverboat 
Ragtime  Revue  which  helped  celebrate 
the  rededication  of  the  recently- 
refurbished  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

It  was  a  night  full  of  entertainment 
as  the  stage  production  of  the  Riverboat 
Ragtime  Revue,  a  group  consisting  of  12 
performers  from  New  Orleans,  filled  the 
auditorium  not  only  with  people,  but 
also  with  a  lot  of  fun  and  excitement. 

Jazzy,  upbeat  bango,  trombone, 
clarinet,  drum,  and  bass  players  backed 
up  the  talent  of  the  three  women  and 
two  men  singing,  dancing,  and  building 
a  climax  of  excitement  over  something 
old  turned  new. 

"1  just  can't  sit  still...  I've  been 
singing  along  with  some  of  them,"  was 
Williamsport  Mayor  Stephen  J.  Lucasi's 
comment  about  the  performance. 

Lycoming  County  Commissioner 
Paul  K.  Bloom  added,  "It's  a 
marvelous  performance." 

And  that  it  was  as  the  group  sang 
and  danced  to  tunes  such  as  A  Hoi 
Time  in  llie  Old  Town  Tonight, 
Charleston  Rag,  Hello  My  Baby,  and 
The  Entertainer. 

The  rededication  ceremony  was  led 
off  by  a  welcome  from  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Breudcr,  president  of  the  College. 
Speakers  included  Mario  Caldera, 
chairman  of  the  College  Board  of 
Trustees'  Building  and  Grounds  Com- 
mittee and,  since  the  beginning  of  this 
month,  newly-elected  chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  as  well  as  Jessie 
Bloom,  a  member  of  the  Williamsport 
City  Council. 


SPOTLICHTDlVlonday,  Oct.  31.  I9«3d9 


yovr 
coMMcrcicil 

^  •ttcriiciliV€ 

WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  joined  forces 
to  give  you  a  chance  to  win  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS-so  listen  to  WWAS  Monday 
thru  Friday    To  win.  all  you  have  to  do  Is  call: 

326-1408 


Your  Commercial  Free 
Place  To  Be 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiHiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiMiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiulR 


Activities  office 
now  'down  the  hall' 

The  office  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities  has 
moved  down  the  hallway.  It  is 
now  located  at  the  first  entrance  of 
the  Bardo  Gym,  said  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiotli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

The  physical  education  and 
intercolligate  sports  office  now  Is 
established  in  Mrs.  Fremiolti's 
former  office. 

There  are  no  posted  room 
numbers  for  the  offices  yet,  added 
Mrs.  Fremiolti. 


CHFXKING  THE  HEMOGLOBIN  of 

Mr.  Neale  A.  Winner,  coordinator  of 
inslructional  media,  is  Mrs.  Jane 
Miller,  registered  nurse  working  for  the 
Bloodmobile.  /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by 
Tom  Montgomery! 


The  last  day  of  classes  for  the  Fall 
Semester  is  Monday,  Dec.  19. 


AA  Cer win-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers   you   can    own!      Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
81/2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  1770l| 


lOaSPOTLIGHTDMonday.  Ocl.  .11.  1983 


Harriers  place  fourth; 
Gelnett  finishes  third 


HAPPY  TO  BE  GIVING  Wood  is  Kay  M.  Krace,  a  journalism  sludenl  from  Mif- 
ninvillc.  Attending  to  her  is  Ms.  Pamela  S.  Kelley,  a  registered  nurse  working 
with  the  Bloodmobile.   /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Tom  MonlgomeryJ 

300  pints  collected;  goal  not  met 

The  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  did  nol  reach  Ihe  goal  desired  a!  (he  College  lasl 
Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  according  to  Ann  Pardee,  volunleer  wilh  Ihe  Blood- 
mobile. 

The  lolal  people  who  volunteered  were  336.  The  lolal  pinis  colleclcd  was  300; 
36  persons  were  deferred,  said  Ms.  Pardoc. 

She  slaled  ihal  the  Bloodmobile  leam  expeclcd  "al  leasl  400  pinis." 

"II  wasn't  as  good  a  Bloodmobile  visit  as  Wilkes-Barre  wanlcd  for  Iheir  pro- 
gram," she  added. 

The  first  automobile  to  cross  the  The  first  aircraft  carrier  in  the  U.S. 

United  States  took  52  days  to  go  from  Navy  was  the  Langley,  a  converted  coal 
San  Francisco  to  New  York  in  1903.        ship.    It  went  into  service  in  1922. 


The  College  cross  country  leam 
placed  fourth,  both  in  the  Eastern  Penn- 
sylvania Communily  College  Athletic 
Conference  and  the  Pennsylvania  Stale 
Communily  College  and  Junior  College 
Athletic  Conference  championships  on 
.Saturday,  Ocl.  22  al  the  While  Deer 
Golf  Course.  Allenwood  RD  I,  accor- 
ding 10  records  provided  by  Phillip  D. 
Landers,  cross  country  coach. 

.a  ■  » 

The  winning  men's  team  from 
Bucks  County  Communily  College,  pac- 
ed by  first-place  finisher.  Bob  Schcibncr 
from  Council  Rock,  dethroned  the  Col- 
lege, last  year's  champions.  "Injuries 
caught  up  wilh  us,"  said  Landers  about 
finishing  fourth. 

The  women's  leam  championship 
was  also  won  by  Bucks  County  Com- 
iTiunily  College.   Only  two  leams  com- 
peted for  the  lilies. 
.■  ■•■ 

The  College  team  was  led  to  a 
third-place  finish  by  Shawn  E.  Gelnell, 
general  studies  sludenl  from  Walson- 
lown.  He  covered  Ihe  five-mile  course 
in  28  minutes  and  one  second. 

"The  meet  was  good.  Since  the 
top  six  runners  came  from  six  different 
colleges,"  staled  Landers. 

The  remainder  of  the  team,  their 
places  and  limes  are: 

Warren  P.  Renninger,  nursery 
management       student       from 


Williamsporl,  15lh,  29:26;  Marly  E. 
Chilcote,  forestry  student  from  Roberts 
Dale,  20lh.  30:01;  Kevin  S.  Byler,  con- 
slruclion  technology  sludenl  from 
Slalinglon,  23rd,  30:40;  Larry  T. 
Sarvcy,  conslruclion  technology  sludenl 
from  Brockway,  3lsl,  31:48,  and  Ed- 
ward T.  Wills,  electrical  occupations 
sludenl  from  Curwcn.sville,  33rd,  32:51. 
.•  ■  •■ 

The  meet  served  as  a  title  meet. 
The  P.S.C.C.J.C.A.C.  is  a  combination 
of  the  E.P.C.C.A.C.  and  the  Skyline 
Conference  from  western  Pennsylvania, 
according  to  Spcchl. 

The  lop  five  men  finishers  include 
Joel  Brooks,  from  Butler  County  Coin- 
munily  College  (2nd),  Jess  Fcnion  from 
the  Boyce  Campus  of  Allegheny  Com- 
munily College  (4lh)  and  Kevin  Tim- 
mins,  of  Ihe  Community  College  of 
Philadelphia. 

Men's  rptm  siiire 

EPClAf:  I.Bucks  C.unly  C.iminuniCj  Collie  J5; 
2.C>iinmunil>  CiilleKC  <>l  Pbiiadclphia  70:  J. Delaware 
Cnunly  Cominunils  C'lilleEe  7.1;  Witliamspdrl  Area  Oim- 
munily  Ciillege  79;  S-MimlRiimery  Oiunly  CtimmunHy 
Colleee  101;  6.Lu/erne  Cnunly  Communily  Colleee  142. 

Slale:  I. Burks  42;  2. Philadelphia  V>:  J.Delaiyare  82: 
W.AX'.C.  UK;  S.Buller  County  Communily  College  110; 
6.MonlEomery  114:  7.l,u«ine  IS9:  S.AIIeeheny  Idid  nol 
Hnish  a  lull  leam). 

Did  you  remember? 

Daylight  saving  lime  ended 
last  night.  Did  you  remember 
to...  "Fall  back"? 

If  you  didn't,  you're  an  hour 
late! 

Ililllllllllllllllllll 


For  Spring  Semester 

(ENL  251-01) 


Masters  of  Horror 


An  excursion  inio  the  literature,  film,  recordings,  and  art- 
work of  the  horror  genre,  including  Frankensleiii,  Poe,  and 
the  history  of  both  horror  comic  and  the  horror  film! 

For  further  informal  ion,  conlaci: 

Dr.  Pete  Dumanis 

(unv  iiloiiiiii,i;\l 

Room  31  7,  Acatjemic  Center 
Call  Ext.  331  or  Ext.  404 

Register  Now 

Enter  at  your  own  risk!! 


umik 


•>i,i.7:>-..V1  .-\  vi-\B5l  -A 


Three  teams  lead 
IM  bowling  league 

Three  leams  lead  Ihe  inlramural 
bowling  league  al  ABC  Bowling  Lanes, 
1245  Park  Ave.,  held  al  4  p.m.  last 
Tuesday,  according  lo  records  provided 
by  Ihe  Lanes'  managemenl. 

Briar  House,  Alley  Cals,  and 
Destroyers  are  on  lop  of  Ihe  standings 
with  records  of  eight  wins  and  four 
losses. 

The  intramural  bowling  results 
from  Ocl.  25  are: 

Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  Briar  House  8         4 

2.  Alley  Cals  8         4 

3.  Destroyers  8         4 

4.  Millon  6         6 

5.  Bull  Spinners  5         7 
5.  Dew  Crew  5         7 

7.  Melal  Men  5         7 

8.  Flinlslones  3         9 

Men's  high  single  game 

Frank  J.  Sebcr,  electrical  construc- 
tion student  from  Scranton,  255. 

David  A.  Byers,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Millon,  217. 

Ray  L.  Weller,  general  studies  stu- 
dent from  Milton,  215. 

Women's  high  single  game 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
student  from  Cogan  Station,  169. 

Judy  A.  West,  clerical  science  stu- 
dent from  Montoursville,  169. 

Linda    Sahm,    secretarial    science 
^.studeiil  from  Williamsport,  130. 

Denise     M.     McNeil,     computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  130. 
Men's  high  series 

Seber  bowled  a  676. 

Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 
healing  student  from  Lykens,  565. 

Well,  555. 

Women's  high  series 

West  bowled  a  436. 

King,  394. 

Sahm,  343. 

High  team  single 

Dew  Crew,  847. 

Milton,  858. 

Alley  Cats,  837. 

High  (earn  series 

Alley  Cats,  2408. 

Destroyers,  2365. 

Melal  Men,  2385. 

High  averages 

The  five  persons  with  the  highest 
averages  are  Seber,  216;  Byers,  192; 
Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  179;  Pell,  166,  and 
Barry  F.  Yoder,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Dewarl,  165. 


Deadline  Nov.  22 

The  deadline  for  making  payment 
for  trips  lo  New  York  Cily  -  being  ar- 
ranged by  Ihe  Siudcnl  Government 
Association  Transition  Commillec  -  is 
Tuesday,  Nov.  22.  Payment  is  lo  be 
made  al  the  office  of  ihc  coordiiiaior  of 
iniiainiiral  alhlclics  and  College  allairs 
in  Bardo  Gvni. 


SPOTUCHiaMonday.  Ocl.  31,  I983nll 

Three  qualify  for  states; 
McKean  finishes  third 


RLNNING  STRONG  in  (he  cham- 
pionship meet  on  Saturday,  Oel.  22,  is 
Kevin  S.  Byler,  construction 
technology  student  from  Slalinglon. 
ISPOTLIGHT  phiilii  bv  Pern  D. 
Peiiizl 

Golf  team 

loses  championship 

The  College  golf  team  lost  a  cham- 
pionship playoff  malch  lasl  Monday  lo 
Montgomery  county  Community  Col- 
lege, 10 '/2  to  7'/2,  at  Luzerne  County 
Community  College,  Wilkes-Barre,  ac- 
cording lo  Harry  C.  Spechi,  coor- 
dinator of  intercollegiate  athletics. 

The  championship  playoff  was  held 
10  determine  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Community  College  Athletic  Conference 
(E.P.C.C.A.C.)  champion.  Both  the 
College  golf  team  and  Montgomery 
County  Communily  College  had  iden- 
tical records  of  seven  wins  and  one  loss. 

In  medal  play,  the  leams  were  led 
by  Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Shohola,  who 
shot  a  75. 

Second  on  the  College  team  were 
both  Brian  A.  McKee,  general  studies 
student  from  Danville,  and  Michael  A. 
Spencer,  engineering/drafting  student 
from  St.  Marys,  who  shot  a  79. 

In  nassua  scoring,  McKean  beat 
Scott  Hamblen,  V/i  to  Vi;  Joseph  E. 
Simpson,  diesel  mechanics  student  from 
DuBoistown,  tied  Nick  Sinnott, 
I  '/2-1  Vi\  McKee  lost  to  Carl  Burns,  2-; 
Spencer  beat  Guy  Greco,  2'/2-'/j;  James 
S.  Allison,  civil  technology  student  from 
Arendlsville,  lost  to  Al  Seiberlich,  3-0, 
and  Michael  E.  Fry,  computer  science 
student  from  South  Williamsport,  lost 
to  Mike  Gokcy,  3-0. 


Give  Blood 

Ttiis  Ttiursday 

al  Earth  Science 


Three  members  of  the  College  golf 
team  qualified  for  the  stale  tournamenl 
al  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania  Community 
College  Athletic  Conference 
(E.P.C.C.A.C.)  golf  tournamenl  held 
Ocl.  12  al  Bucks  County  Communily 
College,  according  lo  Harry  C.  Specht, 
coordinator  of  inlcrcollcgialc  alhlclics. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  cleclrical 
technology  student  from  Shohola,  led 
Ihe  leani  with  a  third  place  finish. 

He  shot  a  79  along  with  Ihrcc  other 
golfers  but  lost  in  a  sudden  death 
playoff  to  finish  third. 

Brian  A.  McKcc,  general  studies 
student  from  Danville,  finished  in  sixlh 
place  by  shooting  an  81. 

Joseph  E.  Simpson,  diesel 
mechanics  student  from  DuBoislown, 
finished  in  1  llh  place  by  shooting  an  84. 

James  S.  Allison,  civil  technology 
student  from  Arendlsville,  finished  in 
17th  place  by  shoofing  a  93,  but  did  not 
qualify  for  states. 

Five  teams  lead  IM 
football  league 

Five  teams  arc  still  undefeated  in 
Ihe  inlramural  fiag  football  lournamenl 
as  of  the  games  ending  Oct.  25,  accor- 
ding to  records  provided  by  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  inlramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  Dog's,  Joe's  Boys,  and 
NAD'S,  Radic's  Rebels,  and  Ball  Slap- 
pers  are  all  atop  the  intramural  double 
elimination  tournament. 

The  Dog's,  Joe's  Boys,  and  NAD's 
have  two  wins  and  no  losses.  Radic's 
Rebels  and  Ball  Slappcrs  have  one  win 
and  no  losses. 

Old  Mil,  Stranglers,  Toke's  Boys, 
69ers,  Wild  Boar,  Boriz  Brew  Crew, 
and  Nuller's  arc  all  within  one  game  of 
being  eliminated  because  they  have  one 
loss. 

The  46ers,  Gamblers,  T's,  Z  Team, 
and  Healer's  have  been  eliminated  for 
the  tournament. 

Inlramural  fiag  football  results 
from  lasl  Monday  and  lasl  Tuesday  are; 
Stranglers  won  via  a  forfeit  over  the 
Gamblers,  Old  Mil  beat  T's,  36-14; 
Borlz  Brew  Crew  trounced  NAD's, 
72-32,  and  Wild  Boar  got  by  Toke's 
Boys,  38-14,  according  lo  Mrs. 
Fremiolli. 

Inlramural  fiag  football  schedule 
for  Ihis  week  is: 

Today 

4  p.m.,  Nuller's  vs.  Joe's  Boys 

5  p.m..  Ball  Slappers  vs.  Radic's 
Rebels 

Tomorrow 

4  p.m.,  NAD's  vs.  Wild  Boar 

5  p.m..  The  Dog's  vs.  69ers  - 

Thursday,  Nov.  3 

4  p.m.,  Stranglers  vs.  Borlz  Brew 
Crew 

5  p.m..  Winner  of  NAD's  vs.  Wild 
Boar  vs.  winner  of  Ball  Slappers  vs. 
Radic's  Rebels. 


In  conference  lournamenl,  Ihe  lop 
six  team  finishers  qualified  for  ihe  slate 
championship.  The  College  team  took 
the  lop  four  members  because  they  were 
the  members  who  had  Ihe  abilily  lo 
olace  al  stales,  said  Spcchl. 

Golfers  place 
second  in  states 

In  the  Pennsylvania  Stale  Com- 
munily College  and  Junior  College 
Athletic  Conference  (P.S.C.C- 
J.C.A.C.)  golf  championships  held  Ocl. 
16,  17,  and  18  al  Ohioville,  Pa.,  the 
College  golf  leant  finished  in  second 
place  behind  Boycc  Campus  of 
Allegheny  Communily  College,  accor- 
ding 10  Harry  C.  .Spcchl,  coordinator  of 
inlcrcollegiale  athletics. 

Of  the  College's  three  qualifiers 
--Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Shohola;  Brian 
A.  McKee,  general  studies  siudcnl  from 
Danville,  and  Joseph  E.  Simpson,  diesel 
mechanics  sludenl  from  DuBoislown 
-McKean  lead  the  icam  with  a  ihird 
place  overall  finish.  McKean  finished 
19lh  oul  of  32  golfers  and  Simpson, 
241  h. 

Of  Ihe  32  golfers,  16  golfers  wtie 
from  Ihe  East  and  16  golfers  from  the 
Wcsi.  McKean  was  the  East's  top 
finisher  while  McKee  finished  seventh 
and  Simpson  10th  in  the  Easi,  Spechi 
said. 

Westmoreland  Communily  College 
placed  Ihird  while  Beaver  Campus  of 
Penn  Slate  University  finished  fourth. 
The  other  colleges  which  placed  are 
Montgomery  County  Communily  Col- 
lege (5lh),  Bucks  County  Communily 
Colege  (6th),  and  Northampton  County 
Communily  College  (7lh). 

The  following  colleges  did  not  have 
enough  players  lo  participate  for  ihe 
Icam  title:  Butler  County  Community 
College,  Bucks  County  Communily 
College,  and  Luzerne  County  Com- 
munity College,  staled  Specht. 

The  P.S.C.C.J.C.A.C.  is  a  com- 
bination of  the  Eastern  Pennsylvania 
Communily  College  Athletic  Conference 
(EPCCAC)  and  ihc  Skyline  Conference 
of  Western  Pennsvlvania. 


SMIIS(,  DOWN  Ihe  new  bank- 
ing system  are  employees  of  Ihe  Wright 
Sign  Company.  ISPOTLIGHT  phiilo 
by  Barbi  L  C/iilsoii/ 


12nSPOTLlCHTDMond.>.  Occ  31.  IMJ    J^ollCr  SkatlHg  freC 

Bloodmobile  to  students  with  ID 

at  Earth  Science 
this  Thursday 


A  "mini"  Bloodmobile  will  be  al 
Ihc  Earlh  Science  Campus  from  10  a.m. 
10  2  p.m.,  Thursday,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor  of  in- 
tramural alhlclics  and  College  acliviiics. 

Anyone  who  donalcs  blood  al  I  his 
lime  is  allowed  free  entry  lo  next  Mon- 
day evening's  movie,  Raiders  of  llie 
Lost  Ark,  in  the  Academic  Ccnier 
Audiiorium. 

Persons  wishing  lo  donale  blood 
must  sign  up  at  the  Rarlh  .Science  Cam- 
pus prior  lo  donating,  due  lo  the 
50-pcrson  limit  placed  on  Ihe  number  of 
donors,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Students  are  encouraged  10  donalc,      COUrSCS   OffereCl 
she  said.  Any  student  wishmg  lo  assist  •J'' 

the  Bloodmobile  is  asked  lo  conlaci 
Mrs.  Fremiolli,  College  Exl.  269. 


A  roller  skating  parly  sponsored 
by  Ihe  Student  Governmcnl  Associalion 
(SGA)  will  be  held  from  8  lo  10:30 
p.m.,  Wednesday  al  Skating  Plus,  ac- 
cording lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli, 
coordinalor  of  intramural  sports  and 
College  acliviiics. 

The  parly  is  free  lo  College 
students  with  ID.  Students  who  want  lo 
bring  a  guest  can  pick  up  tickets  in  Mrs. 
Fremiolli's  office  on  the  first  floor  of 
Bardo  Gym  for  $1  or  purchase  tickets  al 
Ihc  door  for  $2. 

Skate  rental  is  75  cents,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli.  Advance  purchase  tickets  arc 
available  in  Mrs.  Fremiolli's  office. 


Job  development 


at  North  Campus 


Phi  Beta  Lambda 
sets  open  meeting 
this  Wednesday 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  hold 
an  open  meeting  al  noon,  Wednesday, 
on  Ihc  first  fioor  of  Ihc  Bardo  Gym  for 
all  members.  Fund  raising  will  be 
discussed. 

PBL  members  will  be  sellhig  acrylic 
decorations,  cheese  and  sausage,  sun- 
calchcrs  and  NFL  posters.  They  will 
begin  selling  on  Friday,  Nov.  18  and  sell 
through  Monday,  Dec.  5. 

If  any  PBL  member  has  questions 
dealing  with  this  project,  contact:  Lisa 
M.  Wilcox,  chairperson,  Paul  H.  Paul- 
ing, co-chairperson,  John  D.  Boyce, 
Elizabeth  A.  Zerby  or  Tina  M.  Pousi, 
commillce  members. 

The  PBL  office  is  in  Room  3.11 
Academic  Center. 

Classifieds 


PLKASANT   FURNISHED   ROOMS 

by  the  month  for  female  sludenls. 
Walk  1(1  754  W.  Third  SI.  »r  CALL: 
326-4507. 


DOKS  YOUR  (;R01JP  need  a  lund 
raiser?  Make  lots  iil  money  without 
any  expense.    Call  Jerry  al  322-3202. 


FOR  SALE:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire.  Bar  only  used 
about  5  months:  complete  with  driver's 

side  padding;  black.    MAKE  ME  AN    New  York  City  near  wharnow"is"66lh 
OFFER!!  Call  Exl.  221,  ask  for  Tom,    street  and  Third  Aveiuic. 


Persons  inlcresled  in  chan'.'iiiL' 
careers  or  developing  job  search  skills 
could  benefit  frimi  two  professional 
devclopmeni  courses  .scheduled  lo  be 
held  ill  Tioga  Counly  this  fall.  Chang- 
ing careers  and  job  .search  strategics  will 
he  offered  al  ihc  College's  North  Cam- 
pus, al  Wellsboro. 

Changing  careers  will  be  taught 
from  7  10  9  p.m.  lonighl,  tomorrow, 
and  Thursday.  This  course,  latighl  in 
Room  I08A,  is  intended  for  adults  who 
arc  considering  changing  occupations  or 
reluming  lo  eiUici  work  or  school  Par- 
ticipants will  have  the  opporiunily  lo 
lake  personal  inventory  lesls  as  well  as 
learning  mclhods  of  goal  selling  and 
planning  for  a  new  career.  Emerging 
occupations  will  al.so  be  discussed. 

Job  search  strategics  will  assisi  per- 
sons who  are  looking  for  oilier  cmplo\ 
iiicni.  It  will  also  incorporalc  ho»  lo 
conduct  an  inlcrvicw.  This  course  Hill 
be  taught  on  Wednesdays,  Nov.  2,  9 
and  16,  also  in  Room  l()8A. 

There  is  no  cost  fiir  either  course; 
however,  since  classroom  space  is 
limilcd,  Ihc  College  is  requesting  prc- 
rcgi.slration.  Persons  wishing  to  prc- 
rcgislcr  may  do  .so  with  ihc  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education,  in  ihe  Academic 
Center  on  main  campus.  The  number  is 
326-3727.  Registration  will  also  be 
taken  on  a  space  available  basis  ai  ihc 
first  meeling  of  cla.ss. 

Specific  infiirmalion  is  available 
from  Sandra  L.  Ro.scnbcrger,  coor- 
dinalor of  campus-based  programs, 
Cciilcr  for  Lifchmg  Ediicalion. 

Capl.  Nathan  Hale  was  executed  i 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W   Third  Si  ,  Wilhamspoil 
INal  to  Acadtmic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322  1321 

OPEN  7 JO  a.m.  'HI  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


BULLETIN  BOARD  j 

Week  of  Momlav.  Oct.  SI,  ilinmali  Sunday,  ^nv.  6  i 

MOVIES  I 

The  Emily...   7:30  p.m.  tonighi.  Academic  Center  Audiiorium.    Free  with 
Bloodmobile  pass.    General  admission  $1. 

ACTIVITIES 
Roller  Skaling...  8  lo  10:30  p.m.  this  Wednesday,  Skating  Plus,  free  with  C<i|- 
Icgc  sludciii  idcnlificalion. 

Bliiiidmohile...   10  a.m.  lo  2  p.m.,  Thursday,  Earlh  Science  Campus. 
Volleyball  Marathon...  7  p.m.  lo  5  a.m.  Ihis  Fridav  and  Saiurdav,  Bardo 
Gvm. 

MEETINGS 
Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  p.m.,  Tuesdays,  Room  229,  Academic  Ccnicr. 
College  Band...  rehearsal,  4:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Women's  Forum...    noon  lo   I   p.m..  Wednesday.   Room   11)3,   Academic 
Ccnier. 

Forestry  Technicians- Club...  noon,  lomorrow,  Tuesday,  Room  114,  Earlh 
Science  Campus. 

Service  and  Operation  of  Heavy  Equipment  Club...  7  p.m.,  Thursday,  Room 
329,  Academic  Ccnicr. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  noon,  Wednesday,  first  fioor,  Bardo  Gym. 

Circle  K  Club...  II  a.m.,  lomorrow,  Tuesday,  Room  327,  Academic  Ccnicr. 

1983  yearbooks  free 
to  first-comers 

Over  500  yearbooks  for  1983  plus 
many  earlier  editions  of  Moniage,  Ihc 
College  yearbook,  arc  available  free  of 
charge  on  a  firsl-comc,  first-serve  basis 
al  Ihc  circulation  desk  of  the  College 
Library,  in  the  Learning  Resources 
Ccnicr  (LRC),  according  lo  Mi.ss  Nancy 
J  Schick,  secretary  lo  the  associate 
dean  of  instructional  resources. 

According  lo  Miss  Schick,  the 
yearbooks  were  never  picked  up  last 
year  by  those  students  who  requested 
them,  bul,  she  added,  "Wc  gave  a  lot 
away  last  year." 

Miss  Schick  said  thai  it  would  be 
appropriate  if  any  student  who  knows  a 
1983  graduate  lo  notify  him  or  her  Ihal 
the  yearbooks  arc  available  if  he  or  she 
would  like  one. 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

For  llw  week 

of  Mimiay.  Oel.  31 

lliniiigll  Suttdav,  Nov.  6 

Today,  Monday,  Ocl.  31 

Football...  4  p.m.  and  5  pm. 
Table  tennis...  7  to  10  p  m 
Open  gym...  6;30  lo  10  p  m 
Tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Nov.  1 
Football...  4  and  5  p.m. 
Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  lo  10  p  m 

Wednesday,  Nov.  2 
Soccer...  4  lo  6  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  lo  10  p  m 

Thursday,  Nov.  3 
Foolhnll...  4  and  5  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:.?0  In  Id  p  in 


The  first  witchcraft  execution  was 
ih.ii  of  Achsah  Young,  of  Massachusetts 
on  May  27,  1647.    She  was  haimcd. 


"^ 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 

!  15  percent  off ! 

I  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimHiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiii  ■ 

I    all  REGULAR  PRICE  merchandise    j 
I  with  (his  coupon.  | 

li^^^^^^  flip  &  save  ^^^^"i^  J 

Lee  Adidas 

Jeans  [-f  ^     ,  Sneakers  atonic 

Wrangler  Converse 

Chic  Puma 

WOOLRICH  brands  in  slock! 


MIKES  PliACE 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williamsport,  Ph.  322-1 1 1 2 


Mondaj.  N(i¥.  7.  1983    •    Vol.  Il,  N(..  II     •    8  Pages 
WilliamspiiM  Arta  Communily  Ciillese    •    Williamspiirl,  Pa.  117(1) 


Probation  possible 
for  students  not 
meeting  GPA 

Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director 
of  coun.seling,  career  developmeni  and 
placement  reports  that  any  student  with 
less  than  a  2.0  grade  point  average 
(GPA)  will  be  put  on  academic  proba- 
tion. 

A  student  must  have  a  1.5  GPA  to 
continue  the  second  semester;  a  1.8 
GPA  to  continue  the  third  semester; 
and  a  1.9  GPA  to  continue  the  fourth 
semester,  according  to  Emery. 

"If  a  student  is  not  meeting  these 
averages,  he  or  she  should  make  other 
plans,  because  they'll  probably  be  ter- 
minated. It  is  the  College  Probation 
Committee  that  determines  termination 
at  the  end  of  the  semester-usually 
around  Christmastime,"  said  Emery. 

Alternatives  to  termination  for 
students  who  cannot  meet  the  required 
GPA  are;  taking  a  year  off  or  going 
part-time,  maintaining  at  least  a  C 
average,  and  reapplying  to  be  a  full-time 
student,  according  to  Emery. 


Marcus  brothers  to  present  two  concerts  tomorrow 


T/ie  dale  (if  Ihis  cveiil  »as  er- 
roiieoiislv  reported  last  week.  Il  IS 
loimirrow.  The  SPOTLIGHT  regrets 
any  inaimeiiieiice  caused  because  of 
ilie  error. 

Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  will  per- 
form at  8  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

They  will  also  perform  from  11:30 
a.m.  to  12:30  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the 
auditorium. 

The  Marcus  brothers  present  a 
combination  of  classical  guitar  and 
jazz.  They  write  their  own  songs  aild 
music.  The  brothers  have  also  written 
and  recorded  nationally-aired  television 
and  radio  commercials  and  performed 
at  over  200  colleges  in  the  United  States. 

Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  were 
selected  by  the  Mid-Atlantic  States  Art 
Consortium  to  be  part  of  the  1981-82 
season. 

The  admission  for  the  concert  is 
free.  Specific  questions  may  be  directed 
to  Mrs.  Fremiotti  at  College  Ext.  269. 


Trip  overseas 
a  success 

By  James  K.  Morrissey 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

"We  should  have  more  international  exchange  by  field  trips  to  see  other 
countries  and  study  other  cultures,"  said  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  food  and  hospitality,  after  conducting  a  European  stay  for  a  European 
Health  Care  Study  Course  with  dietetic  technicians,  dietetians,  and  social 
workers. 

The  14-day  visit  in  May  of  this  year  was  for  the  purpose  of  studying  health 
care  quality  and  cost  as  well  as  the  availability  and  consumption  of  foods  in 
England,  Germany,  and  France. 

The  group  departed  from  Kennedy  Airport,  N.Y.,  on  May  2,  aboard  a 

Belgian  Sabena  747  jet  bound  for  Brussels,  Belgium.   On  arrival,  they  met  Uwe 

Volkman,  with  a  new  43-passenger  German  coach.     Volkman  -  who  spoke 

fluent  English,  German,  and  French-accompanied  the  group  throughout  the  tour. 

"He  was  an  ideal  chaperone  and  driver,"  said  Mrs.  Moon. 

•  •  *  Please  lurn  la  Page  4 

During  journalism  and  broadcasting  class  project 


.Aaron  and  Joe  Marcus 


IPDATE- 


'Nukes',  railroads 
displayed  in  LRC 

Two  displays  have  been  set  up  in 
the  Learning  Resources  Center,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Kate  Hickey,  reference 
librarian. 

One  display  deals  with  the  Nov.  20 
ABC  tclevisiiin  presentation  called  "The 
Day  After"  about  the  effects  of  a 
nuclear  attack  on  a  city  in  Kansas.  Also 
featured  are  other  books  about  nuclear 
war. 

The  second  display  was  set  up  by 
architectural  technology  students  and 
features  scale  model  railroads  and 
books  about  the  railroad  systcin,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Hickey. 


Artists  (Jnlimiled  sponsor  dance 
Artists    Unlimited    sponsored    a 
Halloween  dance  Wednesday,  Oct.  26 
in  the  Bardo  Gym.   Addison  Ave.  per- 
formed. 

Approximately  150  students  at- 
tended and  "everyone  had  a  good 
time,"  according  to  Miss  Ann  B; 
Machuski,  advertising  art  student  frqm 
Bloomsburg  and  club  president. 

Typewriters  soon  available 
for  Student's  personal  use 

Two  typewriters  will  soon  be 
available  in  the  study  rooms  of  the 
Learning  Resources  Center,  according 
to  Mrs.  Kale  Hickey,  reference 
librarian. 

Students  wishing  to  u.se  the 
typewriters  may  inquire  and  sign  up  at 
the  circulation  desk,  said  Mrs.  Hickey. 


Candidates  respond  to  $5  million  grant  questions 


By  Combined  Staff 

jNote:  Journalism  and  broadcasting 
students,  as  a  class  project,  conducted 
a  press  conference  featuring  t lie  four 
candidates  for  the  Lycoming  County 
Board  of  County  Commissioners. 
What  follows  is  a  combined  report 
taken  from  individual  reports  prepared 
by  journalism  students  as  the  final  part 
of  the  project./ 


Comments  about  a  $5  million 
pledge  from  the  outgoing  Board  of 
Lycoming  County  Commissioners  to  the 
College  was  made  during  a  late  October 
"press  conference"  with  the  four  can- 
didates in  tomorrow's  election. 

The  "press  conference"  was  con- 
ducted by  journalism  and  broadcasting 
students  as  a  class  project. 

Among  issues  in  the  election,  the 
students    had    decided,    were    the    $5 


million  grant,  the  Lycoming  County 
Prison,  and  the  economy  in  the  county. 

Candidates  taking  part  in  the  ses- 
sion were  Paul  K.  Bloom,  incumbent 
Democrat;  Mrs.  Lora  Morningstar, 
Republican;  Mrs.  Dolly  Wilt, 
Democrat,  and  Gene  Smith, 
Republican. 

Three  of  the  four  are  to  be  elected 
tomorrow.  No  matter  what  the  results 
of  the  election,  one  of  the  new  Board  of 


County  Commissioners  will  be  a  woman 
~  and  that  will  be  a  "first"  in  the 
history  of  the  county. 

During  last  summer,  the  county 
commissioners  then  in  office  decided  to 
pledge  $500,000  annually  to  the  College 
each  year  for  the  next  10  yerars.  Those 
commissioners  included  Bloom;  John 
W.  Garrison,  a  Republican  defeated  in 
the  May  Primary,  and  Galen  D. 
•  •  •Please  lurn  lo  Page  4 


laSPOTLICHTDMondij,  Nov.  7,  1983 

Eleven  bears  killed- 
reward  for  information 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

With  Lycoming  County  resting  in  the  heart  of  Pennsylvania's  hunting  belt, 
residents  of  Itiis  county  enjoy  the  sport  of  hunting  to  its  fullest.  Amid  the  con- 
troversy over  unwarranted  killing  and  constitutional  rights,  sportsmen  still  uphold 
their  tradition,  and  humanists  -  their  voices. 

Until  recently,  the  only  voices  heard  about  unwarranted  killing  came  from 
non-hunting  and  anti-hunting  groups.  But  a  new  group  has  joined  the  ranks  and 
lifted  up  their  voices;  these  are  the  sportsmen,  and  they  are  rebelling  against  the 
killing  and/or  mutilations  of  1 1  black  bears  in  the  Trout  Run  area. 

■  ■  ■ 

Headed  by  the  Pennsylvania  Game  Commisssion  and  the  Concerned  Sport- 
smen of  Lycoming  County,  these  sportsmen  are  seeking,  and  offering  a  reward 
for  information  leading  to  the  arrest  and  conviction  of  the  person  or  persons 
responsible  for  this  unlawful  act. 

Although  there  is  a  lawful  bear  season  regulated  by  the  Pennsylvania  Game 
Commission  in  which  black  bears  can  be  hunted,  the  season  itself  poses  no 
threat  to  the  species'  survival  In  fact,  it  insures  survival  through  territorial 
"ownership".  Competition  for  space  is  limited  by  the  one-day  hunting  season 
and  black  bears  can  feed  and  breed  at  ease 

So  the  sportsmen,  although  they  might  not  know  the  most  about  black  bears. 
are  in  the  best  position  to  help 

It  is  the  sportsmen  who  study  the  black  bears  They  are  the  unpopular  group 
who  realize  the  importance  of  feeding  and  harvesting  for  species  survival  They 
are  equally  concerned  with  the  stability  of  the  Pennsylvania  black  bear  as  are  non 
and  anti-hunting  groups. 

With  this  supposed  contradiction  on  bear  killing,  it  becomes  easy  to  think 
that  sportsmen,  or  maybe  even  an  individual  hunter  who  has  "gone  mad",  is 
responsible  for  the  killings.  Could  it  be  that  a  person  who  can  kill  a  bear  during 
bear  season  could  also  kill  one  (or  many)  out  of  season?  Yes,  it  could  be.  But 
remember,  a  number  of  the  killings  were  bizarre  mutilations,  and  they  were  all  in 
one  distinct  area. 

■  ■  ■ 

II  a  sportsman  or  group  of  sportsmen  were  responsible,  the  bears  would  not 
be  mutilated,  for  there  would  be  commercial  value  for  the  bear's  hide  and  if  a 
sportsman  or  group  of  sportsmen  were  responsible,  all  the  killings  would  not  be 
in  the  same  area,  tor  a  sportsman  knows  thai  black  beats  are  nomadic  and  he 
would  hunt  Ihem  in  various  locations. 

The  cry  for  justice  is  a  sound  cry,  but  not  against  the  sportsmen.  No  one 
group  is  responsible  lor  the  killings,  but  a  twisted,  or  several  twisted  individuals 
are  to  blame. 

If  we  are  to  resolve  this  bizarre  problem  we  must  keep  a  proper  perspective 
on  who  is  involved;  to  avoid  paranoia;  to  avoid  wasting  time 


Mery  L.  Pease 

IVIanaging  Editor 
Annette  M.  Engel 

Editorial  Page  Editor 

Ttiomas  H.  Long 

Advertrsing  Diieclor 

Perry  D.  Peniz 

Sporls  Editor 

Lorl  lU.  Lane 

Photography  Editor  (Days) 

Barb!  L.  Chllson 

Photography  Editor  (Evenings) 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darkroom  Manager 

Gregory  W.  Huff 

Features  Editor 

Joan  L.  Thompson 

Administrative  Altairs  Editor 

Kay  M.  Frace 

Senror  StaH  Writer 

Gisela  D.  Grassley 

Senior  Stall  Writer 

SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  every  Mon- 
day morning  ol  Ihe  acadennic  year  by  )0urnalism 
and  other  inteiesled  students  al  Ihe  Willlamsporl 
Area  Community  College,  1005  W  Thud  St 
Williamsport.  Pa  17701  Telephone  (717) 
326-3761.  Ext   221 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  ol  the 
student  newspaper.  o(  individual  writers  or  o(  in- 
dividuals interviewed  and  do  not  reflect  ihe  opi- 
nion ot  Ihe  institution. 


Production  Team  Thii  Issue:  Perry  D 
Pentz.  production  supervisor.  Annette  M 
Engel.  videocomposition.  Mary  L  Pease, 
copy  editor,  William  G  Gahen,  Kathy  A 
Meixel,  James  K  Moirrssey.  and  Joseph 
P,  Povleski.  production  assistants. 


Keep  the  balance 

Every  night  was  parly  night/one 
day  a  letter  came/gave  him  quite 
a  fright/' You  had  quite  a  fling/now 
you're  failing/shape  up  now/or  it's 
one-two-three---  out! 


Are  you  too  busy  to  save  a  life? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Blood,  like  water  is  a  necessity  of  life.  If  a  shortage  of  water  evolves  it  may 
be  difficult  to  replace.  If  blood  is  scarce  it  can  be  made  excessive  by  donors;  un- 
fortunately there  is  a  lack  of  volunteers 

Getting  donors  can  be  a  serious  problem  and  human  beings  are  dying  as  a 
result. 

When  the  Bloodmobile  visited  Ihe  College  there  was  a  lack  of  donors.   The 
Red  Cross  did  not  meet  their  goal.    They  were  hoping  for  400  pints  at  the 
minimum    They  only  received  300  pints.  How  many  lives  will  be  lost  because  of 
the  lack  of  participation? 

What  is  the  reason  behind  this  inconsiderate  lack  of  participation?  Some  ex- 
cuses given  are.  "it  might  hurt",  "I  have  a  weak  stomach",  "I  am  too  busy",  and 
"I  faint  at  the  sight  of  blood." 

"Too  busy  "  is  the  most  common  excuse.  It  is  difficult  to  accept  that  people 
are  too  busy  to  save  a  life. 

If  you  or  someone  you  love  was  in  dire  need  of  a  blood  donation,  would  "too 
busy"  be  a  valid  excuse  for  a  lite? 


To  SPOTLIGHT  readers.... 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

An  important  part  of  any  education  is  the  hands-on  experience  a  student  can 
gain  through  an  internship  I  am  currently  seeking  interns  to  work  in  my 
Washington,  DC.  office  during  Ihe  spring  or  summer  of  1984.  Internships  give 
students  an  in-depth  look  al  the  operation  ol  the  legislative  branch  ol  Ihe  federal 
government,  as  well  as  providing  an  opportunity  lo  engage  in  some  interesting 
projects  in  a  congressional  office. 

The   nonpaying   internships  are   open   lo   any   undergraduate   student. 
Preference  is  given  to  residents  ol  the  17th  Congressional  DistricI,  but  anyone 
who  is  interested  is  encouraged  to  apply. 

Course  credit  is  often  available  through  your  college,  and  we  will  help  pro- 
vide housing  infortTiation.  Interns  must  be  available  al  least  eight  hours  per  week 
and  serve  for  a  minimum  ol  two  months. 

Washington,  D.C.  is  a  beaulilui  city  with  a  lot  of  exciting  evenis  of  interest  lo 
students.  I  would  encourage  students  to  contact  my  Washington  ollice  at:  1 008 
Longworth  House  Ollice  Building,  Washington,  DC.  20515  or  phone  |202] 
225-431  5    Please  do  not  hesitate  to  conlact  my  ottice  if  you  have  any  questions 

Very  truly  yours, 

George  W.  Gekas 

ftflember  of  Congress 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

i  was  up  to  the  gym  last  week  to  give  blood.  I  always  look  forward  to  Ihe 
treats  that  the  Red  Cross  gives  us,  particularly  the  sandwich  at  the  end. 

This  lime  I  was  given  a  new  treat  at  the  first  station  before  they  even  knew  I 
had  any  blood  at  all  It  was  a  free  movie  pass.  The  subject  of  the  movie  was 
murder.    I  believe  the  title  was  "Murder  by  Death" 

I  appreciate  the  good  intentions  ol  Ihe  College  in  encouraging  us  to  give 
blood  by  offering  us  a  free  movie  pass,  however,  a  movie  on  violent  crime  seems 
to  be  inappropriate  for  the  occasion 

Philip  H.  Henning 
Assistant  Professor  of  Construction  Technology 


Stevie  Nicks 
holds  liar  own 

says  reviewer  Lori  L.  Holland 


Former  lead  singer  of  Fleetwood 
Mac. 
^Stevie  Nicks,  shows  her 
exceptional  talent  in  both 
singing  and  songwriting. 

Nick's  dark,  raw  voice  tearing 
almost 

fiercely  through  her  songs  sends 
shivers 
rippling  down  your  spine. 

However,  Nicks  is  not  only  a 
talented  singer, 
but  a  songwriter  too.    Her  songs 

are  often  about  dreams, 
■  transformations  and  promises 
as  a  result  ol  her  beliel  in  angels, 
witches  and  magic  wands. 
That  aura  ol  innocence  is  her 
elusive  trademark. 


An  example  is  shown  on  the  back 
cover  of  "Bella  Donna",  her  first 
solo  album  (1981), 

where  she  holds  three  while  roses  and 
peers  into  a  tambourine  like  a  child 
playing  make-believe. 

Disciplined  or  not,  Nicks  is  one  ot 
the  most 

successful  songwriters  in  pop 
and  on  her  own  terms. 
Even  as  the  rock  business  becomes 
increasingly  diflicult, 
Nicks  remains  happy  by  channeling 
her  Wide-eyed 

romanticism  into  songs  her  lans 
cherish. 

The  outstanding  Nicks, 
her  unique  voice, 
and  her  imaginative  writing 
have  sold  22  million  records. 


Two  students  'star' 


SPOTLIGHTIDMonday,  Nov.  7.  l»83o3 


Videotape  about  College  being  made 


"Focus  on  Your  Future",  a 
videolapc  lo  help  recruilmenl  and  public 
relalions  al  the  College,  now  is  being 
videotape  recorded,  according  lo  Robert 
G.  Converse,  coordinator  of  career 
development  programs. 

The  point  of  the  videotape,  basical- 
ly, is  to  show  prospective  students  the 
Williamsport  area  itself  as  well  as  lo 
show  an  overview  of  the  College,  said 
Converse. 

The  students  who  are  performing  in 
the  videolapc  had  lo  Iry  out  and  do  a 
"screen  lest".  A  panel  of  11  --  who 
represented  the  College  Information  Of- 
fice, Admissions  Office,  Media  Center, 
and  Counseling/Career  Development 
Offices  -  reviewed  the  screen  test  and 
chose  the  two  who  now  are  doing  the 
videotape. 

The  two  students  are  Tracy  E. 
Green,  a  general  studies  student  from 
Williamsport,  and  Chris  M.  Myers,  a 
general  studies  student  from 
Hughesville. 

The  most  difficult  part  of  the 
videotaping,  according  to  Miss  Green, 
was  the  "cold  weather".  She  com- 
mented that,  for  her,  the  most  embar- 
rassing part  was  "having  to  wear  the 
same  clothes  during  each  taping". 
(Segments  of  the  videotape  are  made  on 
different  days,  but  to  assure  "continui- 
ty" in  the  final  videotape,  those  appear- 
ing must  wear  the  same  clothing.) 


Miss  Green  also  is  doing  a 
videotape  for  the  W.A.C.C.  Founda- 
tion. Before  attending  the  College,  she 
was  a  student  at  Tennessee  Temple 
University,  studying  communications. 

Myers  said  he  looked  at  doing  the 
videotape  as  a  "learning  experience". 
He  said  he  is  interested  in  modeling  and 
thinks  the  taping  of  the  video  produc- 
tion will  be  a  "good  experience". 

As  learned   from  a  conversation 


with  Converse,  it  takes  more  than  two 
■actors  to  make  a  video  production. 
Needed  are  people  to  operate  the 
camera  as  well  as  the  lights,  to  handle 
cue  cards,  to  handle  duties  of  the  direc- 
tor, to  serve  as  producer,  and  to  do 
editing  -  and  someone  to  write  the 
script. 

Converse  wrote,  directed,  and  pro- 
duced the  videotape.  He  had  help  from 
Ms.    Virginia    M.    Trowbridge,    com- 


_,     ,^I^"~^IJI 

1 

y^ 

J^ 

i' 

TRACY  E.  GREEN 

General  studies  student 

from  Williamsporl 

(SPOTLIGHT  plwlo) 


Briar  House,  Alley  Cats 
lead  in  intramural  bowling 


Briar  House  and  Alley  Cats  lead  in 
the  standings  of  the  intramural  bowling 
league  held  at  4  p.m.,  last  Tuesday  at 
ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave., 
according  to  records  provided  by  Lanes' 
management. 

Both  teams  lead  the  standings  with 
records  of  10  wins  and  five  losses. 

The  intramural  bowling  results 
from  Nov.  1  are: 

Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Lasses 

1.  Briar  House  10        5 

2.  Alley  Cats  10        5 

3.  Destroyers  9         6 

4.  Metal  Men  8         7 

5.  Bull  Spinners  7         8 

6.  Milton  6         9 

7.  Dew  Crew  6        9 

8.  Flintstones  4        II 

Men's  high  single  game 

Stephen  S.  Rocder,  electrical  oc- 
cupation student  from  Catawissa,  211. 

Franklin  J.  Sebcr,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton,  203. 

Allen  L.  Chamberlain,  electrical 
construction  student  from  Paxinos,  199. 
Women's  high  single  game 

Linda  S.  Shoup,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Elysburg,  156. 

Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  132. 

Nicola  S.   Reese,  general  studies 


student  from  Wellsboro,  124. 
Men's  high  series 

Seber  bowled  a  591. 

Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 
heating  student  from  Lykens,  532. 

Barry  F.  Yoder,  computer  science 
student  from  Dewart,  524. 

Women's  high  series 

Shoup  bowled  a  397. 

McNeil,  346. 

Linda   Sahm,    secretarial   science 
student  from  Williamsporl,  340. 
High  team  single 

Dew  Crew,  839. 

Briar  House,  830. 

Flinstones,  830. 

High  team  series 

Bull  Spinners,  2372. 

Briar  House,  2362. 

Destroyers,  2316. 

High  averages 

The  five  persons  with  the  highest 
averages  are  Seber,  218;  David  A. 
Byers,  accounting  student  from  Milton, 
188;  Pell,  171;  Yoder,  165;  and  Ray  L. 
Weller,  general  studies  student  from 
Milton,  164. 

FOR  SALE 

portable  electric  mike  amplifier  from 
reel  lo  reel  tape  player.  Make  me  an 
offer!!!  Call  College  ExI.  457,  ask  for 
Sandra. 


munications  assistant  for  media  infor- 
mation, and  from  Fred  Gilmour,  ex- 
ecutive director  of  the  W.A.C.C.  Foun- 
dation. 

Working  the  camera  is  Lynne 
Whelden,  of  WBRE-TV,  Wilkes-Barre. 
He  will  also  do  most  of  the  video 
editing.  Converse  noted. 

Lance  D.  Converse,  tool 
technology  student  from  Williamsport 
and  son  of  the  producer,  is  the  key  grip 
-  a  person  who,  essentially,  helps  with 
lights  and  sound. 

Keren  T.  Vedder,  advertising  art 
student  from  Unityville,  is  in  charge  of 
cue  cards  and  teleprompting. 

Time,  Converse  pointed  out,  is  also 
a  factor.  For  example,  two  and  a  half 
hours  of  work  may  only  produce  about 
30  seconds  of  videotape  which  is  used. 
(The  videotape  under  production  is  to 
be  15  minutes  long.)  "People  don't 
realize  what  is  involved,"  observed 
Converse. 

Converse  said  he  was  "very 
happy"  with  the  cooperation  from  the 
students  at  large.  For  instance,  he  said, 
they  "detoured"  around  props  without 
complaining. 

Scenes  for  the  videotape  were  shot 
at  various  spots,  including  city  campus, 
North  Campus,  and  the  Grand  Canyon 
of  Pennsylvania. 

The  videotape.  Converse  said, 
should  "hopefully"  be  completed  by 
the  end  of  this  month. 

Intramural  athletics  eligibility 

t .  Any  full-time  or  part-time  sludenl,  faculty,  or  staff  of  the  College  is  eligible  to  participate  in  the 
College's  intramural  activities. 

2.  Players  are  eligible  lo  enter  as  an  individual  participant  or  as  a  member  of  a  learn  only  once  for 
each  different  intramural  activity  offered. 

3.  A  member  of  a  varsity  squad  is  not  eligible  to  participate  in  an  intramural  activity  which  is  the 
same  sport  or  a  related  activity  lo  which  he/she  is  presently  a  varsity  participant. 

4.  Any  team  playing  with  an  ineligible  member  will  forfeit  all  events  in  which  that  person  par- 
ticipated. 

5.  Any  individual  (participant  or  spectator)  who  acts  in  an  unsportsmanlike  manner  is  subject  to 
suspension  from  further  intramural  activities. 

6.  Every  participant  is  responsible  for  knowing  and  adhering  lo  ail  Ihe  rules  and  regulations  govern- 
ing each  intramural  activity. 

Any  questions  concerning  the  College's  intramural  athletic  program  should  be  directed  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotli,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  College  activities  in  Bardo  Gym. 


COMPLETE  AUDIO  SYSTEMS 

$49900 


CHRIS  M.  MYERS 

General  studies  sludenl 

from  Hughesville 

(SPOTLIGHT  plwlo) 


AS  LOW  AS 


(Financing  Available) 


The  Audio  Specialist  Since  1973 

25  W.  Cliurch  St. 
Rt.    15  (Badman'Schurer  BuMdlng) 

Lewisburg  Behlnc)  EJ'S 

(717)524-9182  Williamsport 

323-2622 

M  &  M  STEREO    ^ 
EQUIPMENT      F 


4nSPOTLICHTDMonday,  ^o^.  7,  l»83 

TriD  overseas  a  success 

•  •*Cor:lwue<IJrom  Page  I 

Tours  (aken 

While  in  Belgium,  Iherc  were  lours  of  historical  Brussels  calhcdrals,  slalues, 
and  (he  Common  Market  headquarters. 

Travelling  from  Brussels  to  Bonn,  the  group  slopped  for  a  tour  of  Bokrijk,  a 
restored  ancient  village.    Mrs.  Moon  described  one  of  the  houses: 

"The  huts  were  roofed  with  grass  and  the  floors  were  made  of  hard  mud.  The 
dwellings  were  divided  into  two  sections;  one  for  the  family  and  the  other  for  cat- 
tle.  There  was  an  ancient  bake  oven  and  windmills." 
Off  («  Bonn 

The  group  then  headed  for  Bonn,  the  West  German  capital.  A  day  was  spent 
cruising  on  the  Rhine  and  visiting  castles.  There  was  a  visit  at  the  Aachen  Healing 
Springs,  visited  by  many  Europeans  who  believe  in  the  famed  medicinal  effect  of  the 
water. 

A  highlight  of  the  Bonn  visit  was  an  appointment  to  see  the  German  minister 
of  agriculture.  The  students  learned  that  every  working  German  pays  11-12  percent 
of  his  income  to  private  insurance  companies  for  medical  coverage. 

All  Germans  are  encouraged  to  prevent  dishonesty  by  food,  beverage,  and 
drug  manufacturers  by  turning  in  suspicious  products  to  government-paid 
laboratories  for  testing. 

The  West  German  government  also  supports  surplus  production  of  dairy  and 
animal  products  by  farmers  to  keep  the  country  self-sufficient. 
Meal  recalled 

It  was  evident  while  louring  meat  markets  that  pork  is  very  popular  with  the 
German  people  despite  statistics  identifying  heart  disease  as  a  major  problem,  said 
Mrs.  Moon. 


Candidates  respond 


•  •  9Conlinue(l  from  Page  I 
Casllcbury,  also  a  Republican  defeated 
in  the  May  Primary. 

During  the  meeting  with  ihe 
students,  the  question  of  the  pledge  was 
the  first  to  come  up.  In  summary,  the 
candidates'  views  as  expressed  in  I  he 
.session  were: 

Bloom. ..continues  support,  cites 
benefits,  would  raise  taxes  if  necessary 


He  noted  later  when  questioned 
Ihal  "the  money  has  been  appropriated 
and  I  don't  think  I  am  going  to  test  the 
legality  of  lhal...  In  the  long  range,  it 
will  be  of  benefit  to  this  coinmunity,  the 
valley...  Therefore,  we  have  to  come  up 
with  the  money..." 

On  Ihe  issue  of  the  now-under- 
conslruclion,  new  County  Prison,  Mrs. 
Mornlngstar  and  Bloom  were  at  odds 


Mrs.     Mornlngstar. ..questions  She  indicaled  she  fell  that  the  plot  of 

method  and  liming  in  which  pledge  was  ground    being    used    had    not    been 

made,  questions  where  money  will  come  "researched"  properly  and  said,  "I'm 
from. 


Mrs.  Wilt. ..sees  benefits,  questions 
where  money  will  come  from. 

Smith. ..opposes  mclhod  and  tim- 
ing, sees  benefit  in  long  run,  indicates 
change  of  position  since  College  has  in- 
itiated immediate  retraining  program. 

At  one  poini.  Bloom  staled  he  is 
"proud"  to  have  voted  for  the  grant. 
He  said,  in  short,  that  he  considered  the 
College  a  "big  asset"  to  the  county  and 


On  May  17,  the  group  enjoyed  a  "delicious"  smorgasbord  while  crossing  Ihe    '''^'  expansion  planned  by  the  College 


English  Channel  aboard  a  large  ferry  which  look  their  coach  and  several  other  car- 
riers. 

In  England  and  throughout  their  visit,  lodgings  were  provided  by  families  and 
small,  family-operated  hotels. 

A  Dietetic  technician  student.  Miss  Patricia  A.  Brown,  recalled  a  meal  of  fresh 
lamb  served  with  a  dessert  of  Spanish  strawberries  in  real  cream. 

Another  observation  made  was  that  an  English  family  lives  comfortably  but  a 
little  more  frugally  than  their  American  counterparts. 
Sightseeing  Included 

Sightseeing  in  London  included  Ihe  Queen  of  England's  summer  residence  at 
Windsor  Palace  and  Hampton  Court  Castle,  the  historical  home  of  William  and 
Mary  of  Orange. 


(advanced  technology,  allied  health)  is 
"an  important  investment  in  the  future 
of  the  county." 

Answering  a  question  directed  to 
him,  he  said  "there  is  no  reason  why 
taxes  can't  be  raised",  if  need  be,  to 
support  the  pledge. 

Asked  a  similar  question,  Mrs. 
Mornlngstar  said  she  objected  to  the 
way  Ihe  grant  was  "put  through" 
without  public  awareness  or  discussion. 

She  commented,  "Unfortunately,  I 


The  group  then  toured  hospitals,  nursing  homes,  and  schools  of  the  greater    ''''"''  ^™*  "'^"'^  ""^  .^'''^V  '-^  g"i"8 


come  from.  I  would  hope  there  is 
money  in  the  budget  without  raising 
taxes." 

While  Mrs.  Wilt  was  not  directly 
asked  about  the  grant  during  the  press 
conference,  she  was  contacted  later.  In 
summary,  she  said  she  feels  lhal  the 
gram  can  be  beneficial  to  students  and 
to  the  stale.     Her  only  question,  she 


London  area.  Observations  were  made  of  English  schools  trying  to  cope  with  the 
drastic  govcrnmenlal  cutbacks  to  the  school  lunch  program.  Another  discovery 
made  was  lhal  English  pubs  close  at  II  p.m.,  even  on  Friday  nights. 

On  May  21,  the  group  left  for  Paris,  France.    Commented  Miss  Brown: 

"The  French  youth  were  dressed  very  strangely  and  appeared  to  deliberlely 
mismatch  their  clothes.  Paris  has  many  skyscrapers  combined  with  beautiful 
historical  buildings,  bridges  and  landmarks.  Pasterics  in  shops  were  delicious  but 
obtaining  satisfactory  food  in  restaurants  was  a  chore  if  one  didn't  speak  French." 

Slayed  in  hoslel  j    ■     l 

The  group  stayed  in  a  French  youth  hoslel.  While  in  Paris,  they  learned  from    ""'e'''  '^  about  where  the  money  wi 
a  French  hospital  dietitian  that  cirrhosis  of  the  liver  is  a  real  problem  in  that  nation.    "'""^    •""• 
A  clue  to  the  cause  was  found  at  the  youth  hoslel,  a  center  used  by  foreign  and  During  the  session.  Smith  said  he 

French  students  of  all  grades  to  study  government  and  languages.  The  hostel  diet  wanted  to  clarify  his  position.  He  in- 
offered  as  much  wine  and  carbonated  beverages  as  milk.  The  French,  including  dicaled  he  was  opposed  to  the  method 
children,  drink  wine  with  their  dinner.  in  which  Ihe  pledge  was  made  and  to  the 

After  Paris,  the  group  spent  a  night  in  Belgium  and  left  Brussels  on  a  noon    fact  that  it  would  take  a  long  time 
flight  back  to  New  York.  before  benefits  would  be  seen.    But,  he 

The  trip  cost  $1,114  per  person.   Miss  Brown  staled  "I  got  my  full  money's    further  indicated,  he  was  "happy  to 
worth.    Germany  had  very  fiiendly  people."  see"  that  the  College  had  declared  it 

Mrs.  Moon  added,  "I  really  enjoyed  Ihe  relaxed  altitude  of  the  German  peo-   would  soon  begin  a  retraining  program 
pie.   They  took  the  time  to  enjoy  life.  The  whole  group  enjoyed  Bonn,  Germany,    for  unemployed. 
the  most." 

'Goals'  survey  to  be  taken  this  week 


'researched" 

told  they're  having  problems  with 
water..."  with  an  added  reference  as  to 
the  deletion  of  a  basement  from  the 
building. 

Bloom  countered  lhal  the  prLson 
was  being  build  in  Ihe  existing  location 
for  the  convenience  of  Ihe  county 
sheriff,  public  defenders,  and  lawyers, 
and  that  the  basement  was  eliminated 
because  there  was  space  in  the  upper 
Hoors  of  the  prison. 

Turning  to  the  "old  jail"  (existing 
prison  at  West  Third  and  William 
Streets),  Mrs.  Wilt  expressed  her  view 
that  the  building  should  be  preserved 
and  could  be  a  "good  tourist 
attraction".  Smith  noted,  "Either  sell 
it  to  private  enterprise  and  put  it  back 
on  the  tax  rolls  ~  or  sell  it  as  a  tourism 
package."  Either  way,  he  added,  it 
should  bring  in  revenue. 

The  question  of  unemployment 
came  up  al  various  limes,  including 
times  related  to  other  subjects.  Each  of 
the  candidates  expressed  concern. 

Asked  "What  can  we  do  to  keep 
students  in  the  area?",  Mrs.  Wilt  said, 
"We  have  lo  have  jobs  here.  We  have 
to  have  facilities  for  people  to  retrain. 
This  is  a  big  part  of  having  people  come 
into  College." 

Smith  said  the  "first  job"  is  to 
"address  high  unemployment  and  work 
through  the  College  for  a  better  environ- 
menl." 

Mrs.  Morningslar,  noting  high 
unemployment,  said  "the  county  is  in 
need  of  taking  an  active  role."  She  said 
Ihe  commissioners  should  find  out  what 
industries  are  interested  in  coming  into 
the  county  and  then  provide  incentives. 

Bloom,  responding  to  questions 
aboul  tourism,  industry  and  the 
economy,  said  one  of  the  "biggest  pro- 
blems" is  the  highway  system  north  of 
the  city.  Better  highways  in  other  parts 
of  the  stale,  he  has  said,  have  lured 
travellers  away  from  this  area. 


"Between     now    and    Christmas  distribute  Ihe  Community  College  Goals 

break  will  be  a  busy  time,"  said  Rodney  Inventory,   designed   lo  delineate  the 

G.     Hurley,     dean    of    educational  College's  goals  and  establish  priorities, 

research,  planning  and  evaluation.  The  Inventory,  in  survey  form,  will 

During  this  time,  the  long  range  randomly  be  distributed  this  week  to 

planning  process  will  be  establishing  students,  faculty,  staff,  trustees,  and 

College  goals  and  objectives  as  well  as  community  members, 

finalizing  assessment  reports.  Students    participating    in    com- 

"Thal   will   keep   everyone   very,  pleting  the  survey  will  have  "the  oppor- 

very  busy.   It's  a  hectic  time  of  the  year  tunity  to  participate  in  shaping  the  Col- 

for  all  those  involved  in   long  range  lege's  future,"  said  Dean  Hurley, 

planning,"  Dean  Hurley  said.  Summaries  of  the  survey   results 

Presently.    LRP    is    prepared    lo  will  then  provide  a  basis  for  reasoned 


One  Cherry  Street  was  the  address 
deliberations  toward  final  definitions  of    '"  New  York  City  of  the  first  presiden- 
College  goals  and  set  a  format  for  Col-    'ia'  mansion, 
lege  planning  for  the  next  five  years,  ad- 
ded Dean  Hurley. 

Good  grades  a  'musV  for  aid 

Donald  S.  Shade,  director  of  financial  aid,  is  reminding  students  that  in  order 
to  receive  financial  aid  they  must  be  making  satisfactory  academic  progress. 

Full-time  students  must  earn  at  least  24  credits  after  their  first  two  semesters. 

Those  students  who  have  withdrawn  from,  or  are  failing  courses  this  semester 
should  plan  their  spring  schedule  accordingly  to  ensure  eligibihty  for  1984-1985, 
said  Shade. 

Students  who  are  unsure  about-  Iheir  academic  progress  should  contact  the 
Financial  Aid  Office,  he  said. 


Name,  location 
of  Co-op  Ed 
changed 

The  Cooperative  Education  Office 
has  a  new  title-Office  of  Experimental 
Lcariiing-and  a  new  hication:  Room  157 
of  the  Counseling,  Career  Development, 
and  Placement  Center,  in  the  Learning 
Resources  Center. 

This  program  provides  academic 
training  with  supervised  work  ex- 
perience. 

At  present,  there  are  about  80  to 
100  sludcnls  in  the  training  program. 

The  food  service  programs  have  the 
highest  number  of  students  in  training. 
The  amount  of  $1 '/;  million  has  been 
earned  by  1,600  students  in  the  pro- 
gram. 

After  a  student  has  been  in  the  Ex- 
perimental Learning  Program,  it  is 
easier  lo  seek  employment,  stated 
William  C.  Bradshaw,  director  of  ex- 
perimental learning.  There  are  10  coun- 
ties in  the  surrounding  area  involved  in 
this  training  program. 

Bradshaw  also  stated  that  there  are 
job  openings  in  the  building  trades  and 
automotive  field.  Persons  interested 
may  contact  him  or  their  experimental 
learning  division  director. 


ARTIST  UNLIMITED 


Lobby-Academic  Center 
Tuesday,  November,  8lh 


Membership  drive 
now  on  for 

CIRCLE  K  Club 

for  applications, 
see  Thomas  C. 
Leitzel,  Room 
301,  ACC  or 
Harvey  H.  Kuhns, 
Room  131,  ACC 

(Sponsored  by  flie  h'iwanis  Club) 


Sprayer  rebuilt  by 
students  in  class 

Agribusiness  students  have  just 
completed  a  project  rebuilding  a  sprayer 
for  the  classroom  demonstration,  accor- 
ding to  James  W.  George,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  agribusiness. 

The  modifications  of  the  sprayer 
were  to  redesign  the  boom,  replace  a 
strainer  and  put  on  hew  nozzles. 

In  demonstrating  the  sprayer,  the 
students  will  learn  flow  rates,  nozzle 
pressures,  spray  patterns,  tip  design  and 
boom  height.  These  are  the  principles 
and  techniques  of  field  sprayers,  said 
George. 

He  also  said  agribusiness  students 
are  also  being  trained  in  proper  handl- 
ing of  chemicals  which  are  used  in  the 
sprayer.  After  the  completion  of  the 
project  the  sprayer  can  be  used  un  the 
field  for  actual  spraying  purposes. 

The  Web  Snyder  Farm  Equipment 
Company  is  allowing  students  to  use  the 
sprayer  for  the  demonstration,  George 
noted. 

Today  last  day 
to  order  hoagies 
for  club  benefit 

The  Computer  Science  Club  is  con- 
ducting a  hoagie  sale,  according  lo  B. 
Drew  Robison,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Duncansville,  and  public 
relations  spokesman  for  the  club. 

All  club  members  will  have  a  sign- 
up sheet  to  take  orders.  Today  is  the 
last  day  to  order  a  hoagie. 

Hoagies  may  by  picked  up  in  the 
main  lobby  of  the  Academic  Center 
from  1 1  a.m.  lo  3  p.m.  next  Tuesday, 
Nov.  15. 

Cost  of  the  hoagies  will  be  $2  for  a 
15-inch  hoagie,  payable  when  ordering. 

SME  club  attends 
technical  session 

Students  in  the  Society  of  Manufac- 
turing Engineers  Club  (SME)  recently 
attended  a  technical  session  with 
Richard  H.  Baumann,  president  of  A.B. 
Precision  Grinding  Company  of  Easton, 
as  guest  speaker. 

Baumann's  company  is  involved  in 
specialized  fiat  grinding  of  stainless 
steels  and  materials  utilizing  various 
grinding  and  lapping  methods. 

The  club's  next  event  is  a  plant 
tour  of  JPM  Inc.,  of  Lewisburg,  next 
Monday,  Nov.  14. 


THANK  YOU 

I  would  like  to  to  extend  dearest  thanks  to 
all  the  students  and  faculty  who  showed  such 
warm  concern  and  sympathy  before  and  after 
the  passing  on  of  my  father... 

Donald  O.  Sides        Judy  west 


AGRIBUSINESS  students  work  «in  (he  sprayer  they  recently  rebuill  for 
classroom  demonslradons.  From  left  are  Leo  R.  Shanley.  of  Roaring  Brach; 
David  L.  Brighl.  of  Richfield;  Todd  A.  Zimmerman,  of  Mifflinburg,  and  Wilber 
R.  Wheeler,  of  GllleK.   ISPOTLIGHT  pimhi  by  Kalhryn  M.  Gl/herl/ 

Sessions  available  for  students 


Thomas  M.  McNally,  counselor, 
has    announced     the    schedule    of 
assistance  sessions   for  students  with 
deficient  grades.   The  schedule  is: 
Monday,  Nov.  7 

12    to    1    p.m.,    Transportation 
Technology  Center,  Room  148. 

3:15  10  4:15  p.m..  Earth  Science 
Center. 

Tuesday,  Nov.  8 

9  to  10  a.m.,  Learning  Resources 
Center,  Room  205A. 

I  to  2  p.m.,  LRC,  Room  205A. 

Thursday,  Nov.  10 

II  to  12  p.m.,  LRC,  Room  205A. 
12  to  1  p.m.,  ESC. 

I  to  2  p.m.,  TTC,  Room  148. 

Friday,  Nov.  II 
9  to  10  a.m.,  LRC,  Room  205A. 

II  to  12  p.m.,  TTC,  Room  148. 

Monday,  Nov.  14 
12  to  1  p.m.,  TTC,  Room  148. 
3:15  to  4:15  p.m.,  ESC. 


Tuesday,  Nov.  15 

9  to  10  a.m.,  LRC,  Room  205A. 

1  to  2  p.m.,  LRC,  Room  205A. 

McNally  added  that  if  a  student's 
status  has  changed  the  student  should 
contact  him  in  the  Counseling,  Career 
Development,  and  Placement  office. 

"It  is  possible  the  student  won't 
have  to  attend  at  all,  if  that  is  the  case," 
McNally  said. 
Staff  members  attend  seminar     -> 

Career  Development  Specialist 
Miss  Katherine  A.  Ferrence  and 
Counselors  Weldon  W.  Michael  and 
Thomas  M.  McNally  participated  in  a 
seminar  on  suicide  and  youth  on  Thurs- 
day, Oct.  27  at  Luzerne  County  Com- 
munity College,  according  to  McNally. 

McNally  said  he  felt  it  was  impor- 
tant to  attend  this  conference  because 
the  suicide  rate  for  the  College  is  one  or 
two  persons  yearly. 


A/^  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers   you   can   own!      Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTiecofd  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8^/2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701| 


6DSPOTllGHTriMonil«y.  Nov.  7.  1W3 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

Br  Pfrrr  D.  fnli.  SPOTLIGHT  Sporti  Ediloi 


During  the  spring  of  every  year,  a  big  sporliiig  cvcnl  occurs  which  works  avid 
sporl  fans  inlo  a  frenzy.  This  sporting  event  is  the  National  Basl(clball  Association 
(NBA)  championship. 

La,st  year  in  the  championship  was  the  Philadelphia  76ers  and  the  Boston 
Celtics,  The  76ers  won  the  best  of  seven  games  in  four  straight  games  little  to  the 
.surprise  of  many  fans. 

Can  the  76crs  repeal  as  NBA  champions?  Only  the  76ers  can  determine  their 
fate  as  the  second  team  to  repeal  as  champions  in  approximately  10  years.  Here  is 
my  predicted  finish  of  the  23  learns  in  the  rcspeclive  divisions  for  the  I98.M984  NBA 
season. 

76er$  repeal  as  division  champions 

In  the  Atlantic  Division  of  the  Haslern  Conference,  ihc  76ers  will  repeat  as 
division  champions.  With  the  hulking  Moses  Malonc  at  center  and  Ihc  high-llying 
forward  Julius  Erving,  the  76ers  will  Iry  to  break  Ihe  most  wins  in  a  season  record 
which  they  almost  accomplished  lasl  year.  The  Boston  Celtics  with  all-NBA  for- 
ward Larry  Bird  and  center  Robert  Parish  will  finish  in  second  place  in  the  division. 
The  Washington  Bullets,  New  York  Knicks,  and  New  York  Nets  round  out  the 
division. 

The  Milwaukee  Bucks  will  top  the  Central  Division  of  the  Eastern  Conference. 
The  Bucks  will  use  the  skills  of  Bob  Lanier,  Sidney  Moncrief,  Marques  Johnson, 
Junior  Bridgeman,  and  Alton  Lister  to  win  the  division.  Rounding  out  the  division 
will  be  Ihc  Atlanta  Hawks  with  Dominique  Wilkins,  Detroit  Pislons,  Cleveland 
Cavaliers,  Chicago  Bulls,  and  Ihe  Indiana  Pacers. 

Spurs  win  Midwest  Division 

In  the  Midwest  Division  of  the  Easlern  Conference,  Ihc  San  Antonio  Spurs 
with  lowering  center  Artis  Gilmore  and  guard  Johnny  Moore  will  repeal  as  Ihe  divi- 
sion champions.  Finishing  in  second  place  will  be  Ihc  Kansas  City  Kings  with  Larry 
Drew  and  Mike  Woodson.  The  Houslon  Rockets  with  Ralph  Sampson  will  finish 
third.  The  Denver  Nuggets,  Utah  Ja/z,  and  Dallas  Mavericks  will  end  the  division. 

The  Los  Angeles  Lakers  will  win  the  Pacific  Division  of  Ihc  Western  Con- 
ference. With  all-slars  Karccm-Abdul  Jabaar  and  Erving  "Magic"  Johnson,  the 
Lakers  will  finish  on  (op  Ihe  division.  The  Portland  Trail  Blazers  with  Clyde  Drex- 
el  will  come  in  second.  The  San  Diego  Clippers,  Sealtic  SuperSonics,  and  Golden 
Stale  Warriors  round  out  the  division. 

76ers  win  Eastern  Conference 

In  the  Eastern  Conference  championships,  the  76crs  will  battle  Ihe  Bucks  with 
the  76crs  coming  oul  on  lop.  The  Lakers  and  Spurs  will  fight  it  out  for  the  Western 
Conference  championship,  The  Spurs  will  surprise  fans  when  they  beat  Ihe  Lakers. 

For  Ihe  NBA  championships,  the  76ers  will  outlast  the  Spurs  in  a  hard  fought 
six  games. 

Although  these  predictions  are  not  scientific,  the  outctmte  will  be  seen  during 
(he  spring  of  next  year.  Watch  and  find  oul  how  close  my  predictions  come  to  the 
final  standings. 


4  teams  unbeaten 
in  IM  football 

Four  teams  remain  unbeaten  in  the 
intramural  football  double  elimination 
tournament  as  of  games  ending  lasl 
Tuesday,  according  to  records  provided 
by  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege aclivities. 

The  Dogs,  NADs,  Radic's  Rebels, 
and  Ball  Slappers  are  on  top  of  the 
standings  in  Ihc  lournainent,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

The  Dogs  and  NADs  have  identical 
three  wins  and  no  losses  records  while 
Radic's  Rebels  and  Ball  Slappers  have 
one  win  and  no  losses. 

Old  Mil,  Siranglers,  Toke's  Boys, 
Joe's  Boys,  Bortz  Brew  Crew,  and 
Nuller's  are  within  one  game  of  being 
eliminated  from  ihe  tournament. 

The  46ers,  Gamblers,  T's, 
Healer's,  Z  Team,  69ers,  and  Wild 
Boar  have  been  eliminated  from  the 
tournamenl. 

Intramural  flag  football  results 
from  lasl  Monday  and  lasl  Tuesday  are: 
Nuller's  edged  Joe's  Boys,  14-6;  NADs 
eliminated  Wild  Boar,  36-14,  and  The 
Dogs  eliminated  69ers,  42-12. 

Intramural  flag  football  schedule 
for  this  week  is: 

Today 

4  p.m.,  The  Dogs  vs.  winner  of  lasl 
Thursday's  5  p.m.  game 
Tomorrow 

4  p.m..  Old  Mil  vs.  Nuller's 

Wednesday,  Nov,  9 

5  p.m.,  Loser  of  Radic's  Rebels  vs. 
Ball  Slappers  vs.  Toke's  Boys 

Thursday,  Nov.  10 
4  p.m.,  Joe's  Boys  vs.  loser  of 
Monday's  game 


Benedict  Arnold  was  an  American 
general  of  Ihe  Revolutionary  War 
period.  Once  trusted  and  admired,  he 
became  the  most  famous  traitor  in  the 
United  Stales  history. 


Indiana  Jones-thenra  hero 
from  the  creators  of  JAWS  and  STAR  WARS. 


Academic  Center  Auditorium 
TONIGHT:  7:30  p.m. 
Admission  $1.00 


HdflflSON  fORO 

MRENAUfN   WUlfREEMAN    BONWDUCEl   JOHN  RmS OHVIES   OENHaW  EllOTT 

».,J0HN»«U.ttM5  GEORGE  LUCAS    HCWWO  KA2ANJIAN 

..,.   LAWRENCE  MSaHN        .HOflGt  LUCAS    FHUP  KAUFMAN 

.,     fRANs  MARSHALL    ,- -.  SIEVEN  SRELflERG 

,    ■     -.  mr; 

|PG|lMfln»L  aHIAlO  SMgSIBJ 


Coming 
Attraction 


NEXT 
MONDAY: 


m 


Bored  with  the  beach? 

Played  out  at  the  arcade? 

Join  the  fiin  at 


R],.®^^   M;M 


Perry  to  assist 
with  IM  sports 

Supervising  intramural  athletics 
and  all  evening  aclivities  as  well  as  being 
responsible  for  the  scheduling  of  in- 
tramural alhlclics  are  duties  of  Michael 
R.  Perry,  recently  hired  to  assist  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti  with  intramural 
alhlelics  and  College  activities. 

A  graduate  of  Lycoming  College  in 
psychology  and  sociology.  Perry  has 
worked  occasionally  as  a  social  worker. 

He  applied  for  Ihe  job  at  the  Col- 
lege because,  he  said,  "It's  an  oppor- 
tunity to  change  Ihe  focus  of  my  career. 
I  always  wanted  to  work  in  an  in- 
tramural program."  He  added,  "I  like 
seeing  kids  have  fun." 

Perry,  who  moved  to  Williamsporl 
in  1979,  has  background  in  sports  in- 
cluding participation  in  football,  track 
and  field,  and  basketball  al  his 
Philadelphia  high  school.  For  Iwo 
years,  he  also  played  basketball  al 
Lycoming  College. 

Talking  about  intramural  sporls. 
Perry  said,  "It  is  open  lo  all  members 
of  Ihe  College  and  we  would  appreciate 
more  involvement." 

He  works  approximately  20  hours 
a  week  but  actual  hours  depend  upon 
the  aclivilics  occurring. 


MICHAEL  R.  PERRY 

College  employee  from  Williamsporl 

(SPOTLIGHT  pholo) 

IM  basketball  rosters  available 

Intramural  baskelball  rosters  may 
be  picked  up  all  this  week  in  the  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  aclivities 
office  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
livities. 

Ro,sters  must  be  returned  by  noon 
next  Monday,  Nov.  14  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli.  She  added,  it  is  very  impor- 
tant 10  include  the  captain's  name  and 
telephone  nuinbcr  so  Ihcy  can  be  con- 
lacled  when  filling  oul  the  rosters. 

The  inlramural  baskelball  program 
will  include  three  separate  leagues 
(women,  coed,  and  men). 

A  schedule  for  tournament  play 
will  be  forthcoming  when  all  rosters  are 
lurned  in.  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 


The  first  aircraft  carrier  in  the  U.S. 
Navy  was  the  Langley,  a  converted  coal 
ship.    It  went  into  service  in  1922. 


Dietetic  technician  students 
involved  in  field  experience 


SPOTUCHTDMonday.  Nov.  7.  I9UO  J 


According  to  Mrs.  Vivian  P. 
Moon,  associate  professor  of  food  ser- 
vice and  dietetics,  first  and  second-year 
dietetic  technician  students  are  involved 
in  an  eight-week  Field  Experience  in  a 
Management  Systems  course  as  part  of 
their  curriculum. 

Second-year  students  are  working 
at  Williamsport  area  nursing  homes  and 
performing  clinical  duties  such  as  pa- 
tient nutritional  education,  sanitation 
checks  of  the  facilities,  and  food  pur- 
chasing and  preparation. 

The  nursing  homes  are  Leader 
North  and   Leader  South,   Sycamore 


Manor,  and  Williamsport  Home. 

Three  students  will  be  assigned  to 
each  work  site  for  six  hours  per  week, 
said  Mrs.  Moon. 

First-year  dietetic  technician 
students  are  working  at  the 
Williamsport  Hospital  every  Tuesday 
and  Thursday.  Eight  separate  groups  of 
students  are  rotated  through  duties  in- 
volving every  aspect  of  food  prepara- 
tion, service,  and  dietary  planning. 

These  duties  include  patient  visita- 
tions, tray  and  menu  delivery,  and 
cafeteria  service  experience,  added  Mrs. 
Moon, 


aiiu    L^ctuci     ouuiii,    jytaiiiuic       iviuvii. 

Practical  nursing  students 
help  with  shopping  mall  display 


A  Special  Report 
By  Linda  A.  Haiter 

As  passersby  strolled  along  a 
crowded  mall  last  week,  they  were  in- 
vited to  get  involved  in  the  health  and 
safety  of  children. 

The  senior  class  of  the  College 
licensed  practical  nursing  students  in 
conjunction  with  Divine  Providence 
Hospital  presented  a  Child  Health  Safe- 
ty display  at  the  Lycoming  Mall. 

Reachmg  an  estimated  800  persons, 
the  event  was  felt  to  be  a  great  success 
by  those  involved. 

Students  volunteered  their  time  in 
three-hour  shifts  over  the  three-day 
period  from  Thursday  to  Saturday. 

Instructor  Caryll  Eck  termed  the 
school  involvement  as  "a  valuable  lear- 
ning experience  in  community  interac- 
tion for  our  students;  it  helped  them 
realize  that  preventilive  health  occurs  in 
the  community." 

Safely  seat  program  included 

Child  Health  Safety  was  chosen  as 
a  project  by  several  of  the  Divine 
Hospital  departments.  Pediatrics  and 
the  Emergency  Department  worked  with 
Staff  Development  to  coordinate  and 
produce  the  three-part  display. 
Florence  Plescovic,  health  care  ad- 
ministrator, implemented  the  construc- 
tion of  the  display. 

The  project  included  the  infant 
safety  seal  program  offered  at  Divine 
Providence  Hospital.  A  demonstration 
of  the  seat  and  information  on  the  ren- 
tal program  were  offered  by  the 
students.  "Mr.  Rodgers"  films  explain- 
ing to  children  the  experience  of  an 
operation,  wearing  a  cast,  and  a  visit  to 
the  emergency  room  were  shown. 

A  big  hit  with  younger  and  older 
folks  was  the  Quiz  Board.   It  presented 


a  series  of  health  related  questions  that 
could  be  answered  yes  or  no.  The  cor- 
rect answer  lit  up  a  yellow  light;  the 
wrong  lit  up  a  red  light.  Even  teens  and 
young  adults  seemed  to  enjoy  this 
challenge. 

Dozens  of  pamphlet  handouts  were 
also  part  of  the  educational  outreach. 
They  covered  a  wide  range  of  safely 
topics  including  fire  safety,  911 
numbers,  "Mr.  Yuk",  toy  safety, 
protect-your-child  packets,  babysitter 
emergency  guides,  and  many  others. 
500  packets  given 

Local  response  came  from 
Hughesville,  Muncy  and  the 
Williamsport  area  reaching  to  Lock 
Haven  and  Jersey  Shore.  Out-of-town 
visitors  from  Scranton,  Bloomsburg, 
Nanticoke  and  New  York  as  well  as 
Virginia  and  Maryland  stopped  at  the 
booth. 

Over  500  packets  of  information 
were  handed  to  interested  parents  and 
grandparents. 

The  success  of  the  first  annual 
Child  Health  Safety  program  has 
bought  about  plans  for  a  repeat  of  the 
program  next  year  and  possible  student 
participation  in  future  community  pro- 
jects. Sister  Emilene,  DPH  ad- 
ministrator, said  of  the  College  nurses: 
"These  students  have  a  spirit  to  serve 
the  people  where  they  live;  it  is  inspiring 
to  nursing  staff.  Giving  is  the  real  heart 
of  nursing." 


Deadline  for 

New  York  City 

Bus  Trip  Tickets 

is  Nov.  22 


Humpty  Dumpty 

sub  &  pizza  sliops  welcomes...  WACC  students 

I    1 5°/o  off  per  pe''son__] 

Southside  Creek  Side 

W  Central  &  Market  Lycom,  Creek  Rd 

322-9569  (Must  have  valid  WACC  ID)  322-9030 


ACROSS 
1  Kind  of  latch 
5  Stalk 
9  Greek  letter 

12  Sandarac 
tree 

13  Carry 

14  Male  sheep 

1 5  Sarcasm 

17  Conjunction 
IB  High 

mountain 
19  Post 
2 1  Surfeits 
23  Stretched 

27  Pronoun 

28  Warms 

29  Obtain 
31  Bambl's 

mother 

34  Babylonian 
deity 

35  Weirdest 

36  Mrs.  Kettle 
39  Arid 

41  Cry 

42  Downy  duck 
44  Printer's 


portrait 

4  Archbishop 

5  Beer  mug 

6  Infinitive 
indicator 

7  Greek  letter 
6  Army  meal 
9  Boxed 

10  Healthy 

1 1  Demons 
16  Lifts 

20  Easy  to  read 

22  Part  of 

"to  be" 

23  Lean-to 

24  Rip 

25  Sun  god 

26  River  In 
Scotland 

30  Sleeping 

sickness  fly 
32  Hebrew 


Answer  to  Last  Week's  Puzzle 


forHtepi   dHdub 

ERaBuN    <     T    eIuS    A 

II  pTum  e|  tr||| 

ear|tri    logi   es 

COMPETENTiTlil 

0WE|1, oerIraw 

A    L    ?■  LEER    SBO   V    E 

33  Auricles 
36  Take 

unlawfully 


37  Snickers  50  Be  defeated 

40  Longs  for  54  Distant 

43  Prefix  down  56  Expire 

45  Note  of  scale  57  Paris  season 

47  Fertile  spots  58  Obstruct 
in  desert  61  Chinese 

48  Drink  heavily         distance 

49  Regrets 


46  Ink 

absorbers 
48  Spoor 

51  Direction 

52  Possessive 
pronoun 

53  Preposition 
55  Sowed 

59  Writing 
implement 

60  Transaction 

62  Girl's  name 

63  Worm 

64  Goddess  ol 
discord 

65  Appear 
DOWN 

1  Possesses 

2  Macaw 

3  Posed  for 


' 

3- 

4- 

1 

5      T-  7 

8 

1 

9 

10 

" 

a 

" 

i 

18 

'W 

m"r 

U   55 

1^^^=^ 

■" 

W 

i"l 

33 

i 

38 

w 

Fl 

41 

m*' 

4? 

W 

49 

JSO^S, 

WM 

52 

1 

53 

P 

55 

TTI 

1 

M 

64 

65 

Answer 
next  week 


PRACTICAL  NURSING  students  were  on  hand  lo  assist  with  Clilld  Health  and 
Safety  Day  at  the  Lycoming  Mall.  From  left  are  Michelle  J.  Tubach.  of  Mon- 
loursville;  Virginia  L.  Hammond,  of  South  Williamsport,  and  Mimi  A.  Bryan,  of 
Williamsport.  /SPOTUGHT pJiolo  by  Lori  M.  Lanej 


What's  ftappening  on  Nov.  17? 
....  watch  this  newspaper! 


8dSP0TI,ICHT     M..n 


VIDEOTAPING  Shor(hand  I  class  in- 
slrucled  by  Jane  L.  Scheffley,  business 
adminislradon  instruclor,  is  Sleven  T. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda 
participates  in  fund 
raising  event  at  mall 

Phi  Bcia  Lambda  (PBL)  will  be 
Tianaging  ihe  Christmas  iree  al  Ihc 
Lycoming  Mall,  according  lo  Paul  W. 
(joldfeacr,  associate  professor  of 
business,  and  club  adviser. 

This  activity  will  be  a  fund  raiser. 
All  proceeds  will  go  to  the  Lycoming 
Lung  and  Health  Association. 

Chairing  committee  are  Doree  M. 
Snyder,  computer  science  student  from 
Montoursville  and  Michael  C. 
Losiewicz,  retail  management  student 
from  Shamokin. 

Other  committee  members  are 
Sheryl  L.  Wilkins,  business  science  stu- 
dent from  Lawrenccville;  Elizabeth  A. 
Zerby,  business  science  student  from 
Avis;  Lisa  M.  Wilcox,  computer  science 
stfdeni  from  Canton;  John  D.  Boyce, 
computer  science  student  from  Roaring 
Branch,  and  Roger  M.  Gradcn,  com- 
puter science  student  from 
Willianisporl. 

Classifieds 


McDonald,     media     lechnician. 
(SPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Lnri  M.  Lane) 


Bulletin 
Board 


BABYSITTER  WA^TEI)  tor  3'/:  and 
I  year  old.  Hours  will  vary  weekly,  bul 
no  earlier  Ihan  3:30.  Musi  have  own 
Iransporlalion   and   like  do|>s.      Call 

322-8522. _  ^ 

DOES  YOUR  GROUP  need  a  fund 
raiser?  Make  lols  of  money  willioui 
any  expense.    Call  Jerry  al  322-3202. 


FOR  SALE:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire.  Bar  only  used 
about  5  months;  complete  with  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKE  ME  AN 
OFFER!!  Call  Ext.  221,  ask  for  Tom. 


ti  For  I  lie  Week 

"  of  Monday,  Nov.  7  ^ 

Ihrough  Sunday.  Nov.  13 

MOVIES 

Raiders  of  Ihe  Lost  Ark...lM 
p.m.     tonight,     Academic     Center 
Auditorium.    Admission  $1. 
ACTIVITIES 

Marcus  Brothers,..  1 1:30  a.m.  to 
12:30  p.m.   and   8   p.m.   tomorrow. 
Academic  Center  Auditorium. 
MEETINGS 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  noon,  Wednes- 
day, first  floor  classroom  Bardo  Gym. 

Computer  Science  Club...  3:30  to 
4:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday, 
Academic  Center,  Room  321. 

College  Band... 4:30  to  6  p.m., 
tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Potential  transfer  students 
should  meet  with  counselor 

"It  is  important  that  those  students 
who  anticipate  transferring  to  a  four- 
ycar  in.stitution  see  me  by  the  Spring 
semester,"  said  Thomas  C.  Shoff, 
transfer  counselor,  last  week. 

Shoff  stressed  this  because  most 
colleges  require  early  admission  for 
transfer  students. 

"General  studies  students  or  the 
liberal  arts  types  of  courses  are  easily 
transferred,"  said  Shoff. 

"However,  most  of  everything  else 
-such  as  in  the  technology  area  --is  not 
so  automatic." 

Shoff  can  be  reached  in  the 
Counseling,  Career  Development  and 
Placement  office  College  Ext.  399. 


Daisy  is  the  name  of  Dagwood  and 
Blondie's  dog. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W   Third  St  ,  Williamsport 

fNext  10  Academic  Center/ 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322  1321 

OPEI\  7 -JO  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


Video  cameras  used 
to  analyze  teaching  style 


Video  cameras  have  entered  the 
courtroom,  the  operating  room  and, 
now,  the  classroom.  In  these  days  of 
high  technology,  the  camera  has  become 
an  important  tool  for  learning  techni- 
ques. 

To  accomplish  quality  instruction- 
one  of  the  major  priorities  al  the 
College-video  cameras  recently  were  us- 
ed to  record  the  teaching  styles  of 
several  faculty  members,  according  to 
Thomas  C.  Leitzel,  assistant  director  of 
the  Business  and  Computer  Science 
Division. 

A  majority  of  the  Business  and 
Computer  Science  Division  faculty 
voluntarily  parlicipaied  in  a  project  call- 
ed "Video-Instructional  Analysis",  said 
Leitzel.  This  project,  he  said,  "was 
conducted  to  show  Ihe  faculty  member 
how  he  or  she  is  perceived  by  the  class 
when  doing  live  instruction". 

"With  the  cooperation  of  the 
Media  Center,  cameras  were  set  up  in 
designated  classrooms.  The  cameras 
filmed  a  10  to  20-minute  segment  of  a 
lecture  or  demonstration  during  actual 
class  meeting  time,"  said  Leitzel. 


Sneezing  is  a  sudden  and  violent 
rush  of  air  through  the  nose  and  mouth. 


The  Edsel  car  produced  from  1957 
to  1959  was  named  after  Henry  Ford's 
son  Edsal  Bryant  Ford. 


"The  instructor  will  then  be  able, 
at  his  or  her  convenience,  to  view  any 
videotape  .segment,  lo  evaluate  the  in- 
structional technique,  and  personal  ap- 
pearance. This  will  enable  the  faculty 
member  to  improve  upon  those  elements 
of  instruction  which  he  or  she  deems 
ncccs.sary."  said  Lcil/cl. 

Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

For  Ihe  week 

of  Monday,  Nov.  7 

through  Stinday,  Nov.  13 

Today 

Football...  4  p.m. 

Table  tennis...  7  to  10  p.m. 

Open  gym...  6:30  lo  10  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Football...  4  p.m. 
Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  to  10  p.m. 

Wednesday,  Nov.  9 
Soccer...  4  to  6  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  lo  10  p.m. 
Football...  5  p.m. 

Thursday,  Nov.  10 
Football...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  to  10  p.m. 


GOOD  BEER  at  an 

excellent  price! 


Available  now  at: 

cervice™ 

C*7  BEVERAGE   CO.     ^^ 

419-421  Fifth  Ave.  •  Williamsport,  Pa.  •  717/323-3237 


Monday,  Nov.  14.  IW3    •    Vol.  19,  No.  12    •    8  Pases 
Williamsporl  Area  Ciimmunily  Colleje    •    Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


Operadtr  of  (he  Year  and 
Mechanic  of  (he  Year  Awards 
were  presented  l«  service  and 
operation  of  heavy  equipment 
students  Arthur  L.  Ciarli  from 
Horseheads,   N.Y.,  and  Marvin 


E.  Waxham,  from  Lal<e  City, 
respectively.  At  the  presentation 
were  (from  left)  Franl<  P. 
Wolyniec,  Allenwood  Equipment 
manager  and  chairman  of  ad- 
visory committee;   Ciarit;   Wax- 


ham,  and  Daniel  C.  Kmick,  ser- 
vice and  operation  of  heavy 
equipment  instructor.  Academic 
excellence  was  one  of  the 
qualifications  needed  to  receive 
the  awards.  (SPOTLIGHT  plioln 
by  Baihi  L  Chil.wii) 


Bill  Clary  to  perform  magic,  mime 
in  stage  show,  workshop  Thursday 


Students  receive 
awards  at  meeting 

The  Service  and  Operation  of 
Heavy  Equipment  advisory  board 
presented  awards  to  two  sludenls  last 
Wednesday  night  al  the  Earth  Science 
Campus  in  Allenwood. 

Arthur  L.  Clark,  of  Horseheads, 
N.Y.  was  given  the  Operator  of  the 
Year  Award. 

Marvin  E.  Waxham,  of  Lake  City, 
was  prcscnied  the  Mechanic  of  the  Year 
Award. 

The  sludenls  receiving  the  awards 
were  selected  by  the  advisory  board,  ac- 
cording to  objectives  set  by  the  faculty 
and  their  accumulalcd  average,  said 
Mrs.  Kalhryn  Landis,  secretary.  Earth 
Science  Division. 

Both  students  are  in  their  second 
year  al  the  College. 

$8,000  given 

to  College 

for  scholarships 


Magician,  singer,  illusionist,  and 
lecturer  Bill  Clary  will  perform  Ihrcc 
close-up  magic  shows,  one  stage  show, 
and  workshop  on  Thursday,  according 
to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiotli,  coor- 
dinalor  of  inlramural  alhlclics  and  Col- 


lege aclivilics. 

His  first  close-up  magic  perfor- 
mance is  from  10  to  10:45  a.m.  at  the 
Earth  Science  Campus;  the  second  show 
is  from  11:30  until  noon  in  the 
Academic  Center  Cafeteria,  and  the 
third  show  is  from  1:45  to  2:45  p.m.  al 
North  Campus. 

From  4:30  lo  6  p.m.  In  the 
Academic  Center  Audilorium,  Clary 
will  present  a  "Stress  Management 
Workshop." 

"This  could  help  students  idenlify 
with  stressful  situations,  leach  relaxing 
techniques,  and  how  lo  improve  grades 
and  study  habits,"  said  Mrs.  Frcmiotli. 

His     final     performance,     tilled 


"Magic,  Music,  Mystery,  and  Mime 
will  be  from  8  to  9:15  p.m 
Audilorium. 

Tot  Watch  will  be  available  during 


Coilrleil  CMegi'  liljiiniiuliim  UJia- 

The  Williamsport  Area  Communi- 
ty College  Foundation  Inc.  has  reported 
that  the  College  will  be  receiving  $8,000 
for  a  number  of  scholarships  for 
Ihc  students  in  the  College's  Earth  Science 
Division. 

The  Wheel  Inn  Inc.,  a  club  based 


the  workshop  for  the  normal  evening  '"  Roaring  Branch,  Tioga  County,  is 
fee,  but  services  must  be  requested  in  '"a'""g  ""=  "io"ey  available  to  the 
2j^,gm,j  Foundation  for  the  College.  To  be  ad- 

Clary  has  performed  more  than  |"'"isleri-d  by  the  College's  Office  of 
Financial  Aid,  the  scholarships  will  be 
presented  lo  students  who  are  enrolled 
in  the  agriculture-related  programs  of- 
fered by  the  College. 

Requirements  listed 
To   be   eligible   for   one   of  the 


6,500  shows  al  colleges,  fairs, 
nightclubs,  hospitals  throughout  the 
■middle  and  eastern  United  Stales  as  well 
as  on  cruise  ships. 

He  has  performed  as  the  opening 


act  for  such  stars  as  RaqucI  Welch,  scholarships-which  will  nol  be  less  than 

Carol  Channing  and  Art  Carney.  Clary  $500  each-students  must  be  enrolled  in 

owns  $50,000  worlh  of  illusion  equip-  cither  agribusiness,  dairy  herd  manage- 

'1"^"'-  »mm  Pleav  llirn  10  Page  8 


SGA  to  sponsor  caucus  here  this  Friday 


The  Student  Government  Associa 
lion  (SGA)  is  sponsoring  an  all-day  Stu- 
dent Government  Caucus  this  Friday, 
according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiotli, 
coordinalor  of  inlramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

Held  bimonthly  at  various  loca- 
tions, the  caucus  is  designed  to  provide 
"leadership  training  on  a  regular 
basis,"  said  Mrs.  Fremiotli. 

Preparation  for  the  caucus  began 
in  April.  "Host"  schools  set  a  date  for 
representatives  and  advisers  to  meet  and 
10  coordinate  programs  and  agendas  for 


the  day. 

Thomas  P.  Brady,  student  ex- 
ecutive representative,  "worked  very 
closely  with  me  in  making  contacts," 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotli. 

Those  community  colleges  to  be 
represented  will  be  Bucks,  Allegheny, 
Delaware,  Lehigh,  Luzerne,  Mon- 
tgomery, Northhampton,  Reading, 
Westmoreland,  and  Harrisburg  Area. 

The  program  schedule  for  the 
caucus  includes  registration  at  9  a.m., 
followed  by  welcome  addresses  by  Dr. 
Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of 


instructional  resources,  and  Brady. 

At  9:45  a.m.,  a  "Time 
Management/Burnout"  workshop  will 
be  presented  by  Thomas  C.  Shoff, 
counselor,  followed  by  a  campus  tour  al 
11  a.m.  After  lunch,  student  represen- 
tatives will  altend  a  "Stress  Manage- 
ment" workshop,  to  be  given  by 
Thomas  M.  McNally,  counselor. 

A  session  in  communication  skills, 

lead     by     Kalhryn     A.     Ferrence. 

counselor,  will  be  conducted  at  2  p.m. 

A  general  discussion  will  be  held  at 

■■■  Phase  turn  lo  Page  8 


2aSPOTLIGHTaMond«y.  Nov.  14.  IM3 

Different 
Seasons 
disappointment 
to  liorror  fans 

reviews  Tracey  S.  Wlllette 

Ditlereni  Seasons  was  written 
by  the  man  who  wrote 
such  books  as  Came.  The  Shining. 
and  Cuio  -  Stephen  King, 
Ditterent  Seasons  is  a  book  composed 
of  lour  "novelettes": 
"Rita    Hayworth    and    Shawshank 
Redemption", 

"Apt  Pupil",  "The  Body",  and 
"The  Breathing  Method" 

01  Ihe  lour,  the  lirst 
one  is  the  mosi  entertaining 
It  deals  with 
a  man  who  is  unjuslly 
imprisoned.   His  revenge 
is  surprising 
and  lunny,   II  makes 
one  leel  like  cheering. 

"Apt  Pupil",  the  second 
In  the  series, 
concerns  a  young  boy 
who  discovers 
a  Nazi  war  criminal 
in  hiding 

The  boy  becomes  involved 
and  then  obsessed 
with  Ihe  criminal's  activities 
during  World  War  II, 

The  Ihird  story 
is  called  "The  Body", 
It  is  about  lour  boys 
who  go  on  a  search 
lor  the  body 
ot  a  missing  child 
It's  more  than  a  boyhood 
adventure; 
it's  a  study  ol  lile. 

The  last  story, 
"The  Breathing  Method", 
is  more  the  suspenselul  horror 
of  Stephen  King 
than  Ihe  other  three 
The  climax  is  superb 
in  this  lale 

ol  a  young  woman  who 
gives  lile  through 
her  own  death 

This  book  is  good, 
but  it's  a  disappointment. 
It  is  not  Ihe  eerie 
supernatural  style 
Ihat  one  expects 
o(  Stephen  King, 
Ditterent  Seasons 
is  worth  reading, 
but  it  is  not 
King's  best  work 


Letters  to  SPOTLIGHT 
readers  may  be  detivered  or  sent 
to  the  ollice  in  the  Academic 
Center.  Atl  letters  must  be  sign- 
ed and  signatures  will  be  authen- 
ticated, no  letter  can  be  publish- 
ed without  the  writer's  name.  Let- 
ters should  be  300  words  or  less. 


Mandatory  carseats-wliere 
will  the  government  end? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Wilh  child-related  Iralfic  deaths  at  an  all-lime  high,  the  law  which  makes  child 
restraint  car  seats  mandatory  (lor  children  under  one),  is  widely  accepted 

While  we  realize  Ihe  need  lor  saving  lives  is  the  basis  lor  Ihe  carseals.  we 
must  also  lower  out  heads  in  disgusi  at  state  government  lor  enlorcing  their  use 

The  fact  is  that  child  rearing  and  protection  had  always  been  well  preserved 
within  the  conlines  ol  the  lamily.  Most  parents  are  not  lax  about  the  safely  of  their 
children  II  there  are  parents  who  are  generally  not  concerned  with  their 
children's  welfare,  what  guarantees  do  we  have  that  they  will  adhere  to  the  law' 
And  who  would  have  thought  an  epidemic  ol  child-related  trallic  deaths  would 
cause  the  government  to  enforce  a  law  thai  undermines  the  basic  responsibility 
ol  every  parent  involved''   So  much  lor  limited  government! 

While  we  are  pleased  that  there  is  a  good  market  lor  child  restraint  carseals, 
we  are  appalled  that  out  stale  government  will  enforce  a  $25  fine  for  a  law  Ihat  in 
a  few  months  will  carry  about  as  much  importance  as  slowing  down  for  a  yellow 
light  or  laywalking 

We  are  lorced  to  ask  ourselves:  Will  the  law  actually  promote  a  sense  ol 
parental  protection?  Does  this  law  further  infringe  on  personal  lives,  or  rights  of 
Ihe  individual' 

The  inlringement  on  personal  lives  could  become  a  major  issue.  The  lacl  re- 
mains Ihat  government  stepped  out  ol  its  boundries  again,  insinuating  Ihat  paren- 
thood IS  at  an  all-lime  low  What  is  especially  threatening  is  that  the  government 
made  law  out  ol  something  that  was  already  widely  practiced  One  must  wonder: 
where  will  it  end' 

PBL  members  are 
'leaders'  and  'doers' 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Without  a  doubt.  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  is  one  ol  Ihe  busiest  organizations 
on  Campus, 

II  is  a  national  organization  of  the  future  buisness  leaders  of  America,  lis 
igoals  are  to  develop  leadership  qualities  and  to  be  of  service  not  only  to  fellow 
students  and  to  Ihe  school  but  also  to  charily  organizations  and  Ihe  community  at 
large. 

Members  accomplish  their  goals  by  "doing",  regular  meetings  are  held 
every  two  weeks,  but  members  keep  up  then  enthusiasm  through  daily  conlaci 
with  each  other  and  with  their  advisers,  Alex  W.  Bailey,  associate  professor  of 
business  administration,  and  Paul  W  Goldleder,  assistant  professor  of  business 
administration,  who  is  also  Ihe  Pennsylvania  slate  chairman  lor  the  organization. 

They  work  closely  with  other  schools  to  charter  new  groups  In  Penn- 
sylvania alone,  the  number  of  chapters  has  grown  Irom  eight  to  40  in  just  the  last 
few  years. 

They  are  continually  working  on  projects  such  as  the  community  service 
project  in  which  they  are  currently  involved  They  are  "manning"  a  Christmas 
tree  at  the  Lycoming  Mall  by  raising  proceeds  lor  Ihe  Lung  Association 

The  tact  that  they  have  won  prizes  (seven  lirsls)  eight  consecutive  years  for 
their  lloats  entered  in  the  Mummers'  Parade  attests  to  their  accomplishment  as 
"doers"  and  "leaders" 

Another  ol  the  major  projects  PBL  members  will  be  sponsoring  in  conjunc- 
tion with  the  Business  and  Computer  Science  Division  is  Ihe  10th  Annual 
Business  Education  Symposium  at  Ihe  College  in  Ihe  spring.  Many  hours  will  be 
devoted  lo  the  success  ol  this  annual  endeavor 

These  projects  and  dozens  more,  loo  numerous  to  mention,  give  the 
students  ample  opportunity  lo  develop  their  leadership  skills  And  they  are  cer- 
tainly using  il  to  their  advantage 

The  lulure  looks  brighter  with  young  people  like  these  as  leaders 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers.... 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

Hundreds  ol  patients  in  our  area  hospitals  will  be  grateful  lor  Ihe  330  pints  ot 
blood  collected  at  the  College  Bloodmobile  While  we  all  wish  the  resulls  would 
have  been  closer  lo  the  550  goal  needed,  we  are  indeed  pleased  wilh  what  we 
did  geli 

Please  extend  our  thanks  to  all  the  students  who  helped  by  gelling  equip- 
ment set  up,  by  walking  donors,  and  by  recruiting  students,  faculty,  administra- 
tion, and  stall  lo  give, 

I  en|oyed  working  wilh  you  again,  and  I  am  confident  that  by  working 
together.  Ihe  Spring  visit  will  reach  target. 

Sincerely, 

Ellen  H.  Arnold 

Executive  Director 


'Bandit'  movie 
not  up  to  par 

says  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 

After  watching"Smokey  and  the 

Bandit  III. 

one  cannot  help 

but  have  a  negative 

altitude  toward 

movie  producers. 

It  is  loo  bad  they 

cannot  leave  well  enough  alone 

They  had  a  hit  with 

the  first  one 

and  apparently  had  to  milk  it 

lor  all  they  could  get. 

The  third  segment 

has  more  than  its  share 

of  similarities  but  managed 

to  come  up  wilh 

a  slightly  different  plol. 

Unlike  the  lirst  two. 

Ihe  bandit  does  the  chasing 

The  absences  ol  Burt  Reynolds 

and  Sally  Fields 

takes  away  even  more  Irom 

the  movie. 

Jerry  Reeves  assumes 

Ihe  role  of  the  bandit 

The  action  in  the  movie 

is  very  absurd; 

the  accidents  that  occur  are 

quite  ridiculous. 

This  type  of  movie 

could  Insult  one's  Intelligence, 

If  you  are 

a  diehard  Jackie  Gleason  Ian 

or  enjoy 

chase  'em  and  smash  'em  up 

movies,  then  perhaps 

it  will  be  worth 

your  $4 

...but  I  doubt  It! 

rvlary  L,  Pease 

Man,:i,ji,i.|  Edili.i 

Annetle  rvl    Engei 

Editorial  Page  Edilor 

Thomas  H.  Long 

Advertising  Director 

Perry  D.  Pentz 

Sports  Editor 

Lori  M.  Lane 

Piiolograrjiiy  Editor  (Days) 

Barbl  L.  Clillson 

Ptioiography  Editor  (Evenings) 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darkroom  Manager 

Gregory  W.  Hulf 

Fealures  Edilor 

Joan  L.  Thompson 

Administrative  Aflans  Edilor 

Kay  M.  Frace 

Senior  Slail  Wnler 

Gisela  D.  Grasstey 

Senior  SlatI  Wnler 

SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  every  Mon- 
day morning  ol  Ihe  academic  year  by  journalism 
and  other  inleresled  sludents  al  the  Witiiamsporl 
Area  Communily  College,  1005  W  Third  SI, 
Williamsport,  Pa  17701  Telephone  (717) 
326-3761,  Ext   221 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  o(  the 
student  newspapei,  ol  individual  writers  or  of  in- 
dividuals interviewed  and  do  noi  relieci  lile  opi- 
nion ol  Ihe  insliiulion 


Production  Team  This  Issue:  Joan  L 
Thompson,  copy  editor.  Kay  M  Frace. 
videocomposiiion,  Kalhy  M  Gilbert,  Gary 
A,  Nichols,  and  William  G  Gahen.  pro- 
duction assistants 


s 


Whaddya 
say....? 

Photography  diiticullies  led  to  the 
absence  of  pictures  with  this  week's 
Whaddya  say  feature  Responses 
from  those  interviewed  are  presented 
for  reader's  interest  (Opinions  ex- 
pressed are  those  of  the  interviewees.) 

Text  by  Shawn  W.  Heverly 
Photos  by  Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

The  question  was  asked 

in  the  Library. 

Question:    What  is  your 

reaction  to  the  situation  in 

Beirut? 

Richard     F.     Wright,     machinisi 
general   student   from   Walsonlown: 
"They  should  complelely  pull  out  or 
they    should    win    it        No    messing 
around  " 

Russell  N  Foust,  computer 
science  student  from  South 
Williamsporl:  "It's  lime  Ihe  United 
Stales  stood  up  and  started  protecting 
their  rights  " 

Leslie  E  Ergott.  general  studies 
student  from  Oval:  "The  whole  thing  is 
confusing  to  me.  It  would  be  stupid  to 
sent  more  marines  over  there  just  to 
gel  killed  " 

Kathy  R,  Foreman,  individual 
studies  student  from  Turbotville:  "I 
believe  they  have  a  purpose  and  I  don't 
complelely  understand  what  it  is  The 
marines  have  shown  their  force  by  be- 
ing there." 

Jack  Ivl.  Herr,  machinist  general 
student  from  Mill  Hall:  "I  think  it's  good 
thai  we  have  people  there,  but  Ihey 
should  let  the  people  of  the  United 
States  in  on  a  lot  more  because  people 
are  getting  the  wrong  impression  on 
Reagan." 

Scott  T  Pasi,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Monloursville: 
"I  think  it's  good  to  show  some  force  in 
other  countries...  to  stop  the  spread  of 
'communism," 

Paul  H  Pauling,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Montgomery:  "Not  much 
you  can  do  about  it  now.  When  you 
have  250  people  dead,  you  jusi  can'l 
pull  out  right  away:  they  would  have 
died  in  vain" 

Additional  parldng  space  made 
available  for  faculty  and  staff 

The  east  side  of  the  Administration 
Building  now  is  blue  sticl<cr  parking,  ac- 
cording to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  super- 
visor of  security. 


BARRY'S 

Third  Street 

Sandwich  Parlor 

and  Arcade 

(across  from  Picklener's 
on  W   3rd  St  ) 

New,  clean  place 

serving  "N.Y.  style' 

deli-fair 

Open  Daily 

For  Breakfast 

Hours:  Mon.  &  Tues. 

ea.m.'12lulidniglit 

Wed.-Sun.  opefi24hrs. 

AJli'i  fill'  hur\. 
PHONE  BARRY'S Jnr  miiclcis. 
323-FOOD  


Experiential 
job  placement 
covers  most  of  U.S. 

The  staff  in  Ihe  office  of  experien- 
tial learning  is  concerned  with  placing 
students  in  jobs  for  experience,  staled 
William  C.  Bradshaw,  director  of  ex- 
periential learning. 

Students  may  be  under  the  impres- 
sion that  they  can  only  be  placed  in  10 
nearby  counties.  This  is  not  true.  They 
can  be  placed  almost  anywhere  they 
choose  to  go  in  the  United  States,  Brad- 
shaw said. 

The  one  thing  that  limits  students  is 
if  they  are  required  to  take  classes  on 
campus,  Bradshaw  said. 

Students  have  been  placed  in  all 
but  10  counties  in  Pennsylvania  and 
have  also  been  placed  in  Alaska, 
Wyoming,  Maine,  and  Florida,  noted 
Bradshaw. 

It  is  not  too  early  to  be  thinking 
about  the  possibility  for  summer  co-op 
placements,  he  added. 

Interested  students  should  check 
with  the  Experiental  Learning  Office, 
Room  157,  Counseling,  Career  Devel- 
ment  and  Placement  center  in  the  Lear- 
ning Resource  Center,  or  with  division 
co-op  coordinators,  Bradshaw  added. 

Outing  Club  seeks 
outdoor  enthusiasts 

The  Outing  Club  is  seeking  persons 
iiilercslcd  in  Ihe  out-of-doors  and  hik- 
ing, according  to  Steven  T.  McDonald, 
club  adviser. 

The  club  has  already  held  several 
excursions  including  a  25-milc  hike 
benefiting  Ihe  Central  Pennsylvania 
Lung  and  Health  As,socialion. 

Intercslcd  sludcnls  arc  welcome  to 
attend  meetings,  which  arc  held  every 
Wednesday  al  4:.10  p.m.  in  Room  227, 
Academic  Center,  McDonald  said. 


Building  Trades  Division 
shares  in  co-op  training 

Plumbing  and  heating,  carpentry, 
architecture,  electrical  construction,  and 
air  conditioning  and  refrigeration 
students  are  included  in  the  Building 
Trades  Division  that  takes  part  in 
cooperative  education  work. 

The  students  must  follow  certain 
guidelines  for  eligibility.  They  must  be 
supervised  by  a  representative  of  the 
business  they  are  working  for  and  be 
paid  for  their  labor.  They  must  also  be 
assigned  work  dealing  with  their  cur- 
riculum. 

"A  student  that  has  taken  part  in 
cooperative  education  and  succeeded  in 
doing  so,  has  gained  valuable  ex- 
perience and  training  that  cannol  be 
taught  in  the  classroom,"  remarked 
Frank  P.  Beatty  3rd,  assistant  professor 
of  plumbing  and  heating  and  division 
cooperative  education  director. 

According  to  Beatly,  cooperative 
education  jobs  are  usually  performed  at 
businesses  within  the  state,  although 
some  students  have  worked  as  far  away 
as  Alaska. 


SPOTLIGHTI  IMiinday,  Nov.  14.  I983nj 

62  attend 
Marcus  concert 

Aaron  and  Joel  Marcus  performed 
two  concerts  last  Tuesday  at  11:30  a.m. 
and  8  p.m.  in  the  Academic  Center 
Auditorium,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  Marcus  brothers  performed 
songs  by  such  artists  as  Steven  Bishop, 
Hank  Williams,  Dan  Fogelberg  as  well 
as  some  of  their  own  originals. 

The  concert  lasted  approximately 
Iwo  hours  and  62  spectators  attended, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

"It  was  very  entertaining  and  it 
was  too  bad  more  students  did  not  at- 
lend,"  commented  Mark  C.  Stewart,  a 
computer  science  student  from 
Bloomsburg. 

FHMSO  meeting 
to  be  Wednesdays 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  Manage- 
ment Student  Organization  will  hold  its 
next  meeting  at  2  p.m.,  this  Wednesday 
in  Room  105,  Academic  Center. 

Items  to  be  discussed  include  the 
annual  Christmas  party,  Christmas 
decorating,  the  purchase  of  kitchen 
hats,  and  a  community  service  project, 
according  to  D.  Mark  Scott,  food  and 
hospitality  student  from  Laurelton. 

The  FHMSO  is  Ihe  club  which  in- 
cludes food  and  hosDilalitv  management 
students  as  well  as  dietary  technician 
students.  Money  for  Held  trips  and 
olhcr  projects  is  made  through  catered 
events  which  are  managed  and  prepared 
by  members  of  the  club. 

On  Friday,  Dec.  2,  al  11  a.m.  in 
Room  105,  the  FHMSO  will  meet  with 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities, to  discuss  the  roles  of  the  Stu- 
dent Government  Association  (SGA) 
and  clubs  at  Ihe  College. 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 


j  15  percent  off  j 

I  Offer  only  valid  with  REGlliARI.Y  PRICED  merchandise   | 
Ji^^HB^^^  clip  &  save  ^^■■■■^^  J 


Lee 
Levi 


Adidas 
Etonic 


Jeans   '"7'"     ,         Sneakers  _ 

Wrangler  Converse 


Chic 


Punna 


WOOLRICH  brands  in  slock! 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williamsport,  Ph.  322-1 1 1 2 

Mun.-Wcd.  &  Sal.  9:J0  to  5       Thurs.  &  Fri.  9:30  In  9 


4aSPOTLICHTDMond«>,  Nov.  14,  1983 


Seasons  change  as  Persephone 


King  kidnapping  Persephone 


As  I  sil  here  al  Ihc  lablc.  refleiting 

on  Ihe  summer,  I  am  reminded 

of  a  slory  in  Greek  mylhology.    Whal  broughl 

aboui  lliis  ihoughi?   I  am  silling  licre  looking  out 

al  my  garden.  The  lomalo  plains  are  slaning  to 

wilher  and  slide  down  ihe  slakes.    The  zinnias 

arc  no  longer  brighl  colors  of  red,  violel,  pink, 

or  yellow;  Ihcy  are  brown.  The  rich  green  broccoli 

and  cauliflower  slalks  are  limp  and  pale. 

In  Ihe  back  of  Ihe  garden,  where 

once  grew  Ihree  bounlifuf  hills  of  squash, 

now  lay  a  pile  of  yellowing  and  browning 

squash  vines. 

Over  10  (he  left  are  Ihe  drying  bean  pods; 

Ihey  are  lighl  brown  in  color  and 

.soaking  wcl,  righl  now.    When  Ihe  slalks  dry 

oul,  after  Ihis  rain,  Ihe  beans  will  be 

shelled  from  ilieir  pods  and  dried  for 

slorage,  lo  be  used  in  soups  Ihis  winler. 

This  conglomeralion  of  lighl  lans,  yellows, 

browns,  kindles  Ihc  Ihoughi  of  Demelcr, 

Goddess  of  Earlh,  and  Ihe  loss  of  her 

daughlcr,  Persephone. 

Some  people  would  say  Demelcr  was  called 

"Molhcr  Earlh"  and  conlrolled  Ihe  growlh 

of  Ihe  Irecs,  flowers,  and  crops  of  ihe  farmers. 


By  John  E.  M 
A  business  managemenl  slu 

Nolhing  grew  unless 

Pe 

Ihc  king  of Ihc  under 

Demelcr  mouri 

and  allowei 

The  ground  t 

Inlervenlion  1 

caused  Den 

wilh  ll 

Per.sephc 

wilh  her  molher 

of  Ihc  year. 

musi  relurn  li 

king  who  h 

As  a  resull  of  ihis 

allowed  growlh  of 

Persep 

The  olher  four  monlh 
barren,  gray  an 


Spring 

plaining  and  bu 

of  full  growlh. 

grcal  harvesl.    Win 


Artwork  hv  Murray  ,/.  HaiifnrtI 


Table  tennis  meets  today 

Inlramural  lable  lennis  will  meel  al      lege  aclivilies. 
7  p.m.,  loday  and  every  Monday  on  Ihe 
east  floor  of  Ihe  Bardo  Gym,  according 
lo   Mrs.   JoAnn    R.    Fremiolli,   coor- 
dinator of  inlramural  alhlelics  and  Col- 


Sludents  inleresled  in  lable  lennis 
may  conlaci  Mrs.  Fremiolli  in  Ihe  in- 
lramural alhlelics  and  College  activities 
office  in  the  gym  or  call  ExI.  269. 


IA,lrerl,u„„'«l/  IA,lve,l,sa„cnll 

Alpha  Omega  question  and  answer 


Q.  Dim'l  my  gond  works  eouni 
for  anything?  Won't  God  accept 
me   if   I've   lived   a   good   life? 

A.  Many  people  Ihink  if  Ihcy  can 
live  a  good  life,  if  the  good  works 
Ihey  do  oulwcigh  the  bad,  then 
they  will  have  earned  their  way  lo 
Heaven. 

Unfortunately,  the  Bible  docs 
not  allow  anyone  lo  earn  his  way 
to  Heaven.  The  scriptures  teach 
that  good  works  have  nothing  lo 
do  wilh  one  entering  into  a  right 
relationship  wilh  God. 

"Not  by  works  of 
righteousness  which  we  have  done, 
but  according  lo  His  mercy  He 
saved  us,"  (Titus  .1:5) 

"For  by  grace  arc  ye  sa\ed 
through  faith;  and  that  not  of 
yourselves:  it  is  the  gift  of  God: 
Not  of  works,  lest  any  man  should 
boast."  (Eph.  2:8,  9) 

We  like  lo  compare  ourselves 

lo  others,  and  then  sometimes  we 

feel  we  are  not  so  bad  after  all. 

(Opinions  expressed  uilliin  are  iiol 


But  God  compares  us  lo  Jesus 
Christ,  His  Son,  and  next  lo  Him 
we  cannot  help  but  fall  far  short, 
all  of  us  with  no  exception.  "For 
all  have  sinned  and  come  short  of 
Ihc  glory  of  God."  (Rom.  3:23) 

Although  modern  man  con- 
siders himself  belter  than,  or  at 
least  as  good  as  others,  he  is  still 
far  from  God's  perfect  standard. 
ll  is  po.ssiblc  for  anyone  lo  reach 
Heaven  by  his  own  deeds  and 
apart  from  Jesus  Christ.  As 
Jesus,  Himself,  puis  it,  "I  am  the 
way,  the  Irulh,  and  the  life;  no 
man  conieth  unto  the  Father,  bul 
by  me."  (John  14:6) 

If  there  are  any  questions 
you  have  about  the  Lord  or  faith 
in  Christ,  submit  them  to  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiotti,  in  the  Bardo  Gvni. 
Label  (he  envehipe:  Alpha 
Omega  Fellowship. 

All  questions  will  he 
answered  according  lo  scripture. 

iiece»arili'  llime  of  The  SP07LICHTI 


PBL  meeting  to  feature 
guest  speaker  from  Bell 

There  will  be  a  guest  speaker  at  Ihe 
Phi  Bcia  Lambda  (PBL)  meeting  al  12 
p.m.  Ihis  Wednesday  on  the  first  floor 
of  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Paul 
W.  Goldfeder,  a.ssistani  professor  of 
business  administration. 

Jack  Minier,  markeling  manager 
for  Bell  Telephone,  will  discuss 
telemarketing.  Minier  is  a  graduate  of 
the  College  and  recicved  his  bachelor's 
degree  from  Bloomsburg  University. 
While  attending  the  College,  Minier  was 
a  member  of  PBL. 

Minier  is  an  active  College  alumnus 
and  a  sponsor  of  one  of  the  graduating 
awards,  said  Goldfeder. 

'Memory  Techniques' 
workshop  subject 

A  workshop  on  "Memory  Techni- 
ques"will  be  held  from  3  to  4  p.m.  next 
Monday,  Nov.  21,  in  Room  129  of  the 
Administration  Building,  according  lo 
R.  Dean  Foster,  director  of 
developmenlal  studies. 

Larry  Richardson,  Act  lOl/COP- 
ing  inslruclional  specialist  will  present 
two  memory  techniques  in  this 
workshop.  The  techniques  lo  be 
discussedarc  "Mediation",  linking  two 
ideas  by  using  a  third  item,  and 
"Memonics",  a  mental  filing  system. 

Students  desiring  more  inlormalion 
may  reach  Richardson  al  College  exl 
242. 


Church  camp  has 
24  job  openings 

Camp  Sequanota,  a  Lutheran 
Church  Camp  in  Southwcslern  Penn- 
sylvania, has  24  job  openings  available, 
according  to  information  provided  by 
the  Counseling,  Car^  Development, 
and  Placement  Office. 

Fifteen  cabin  counselors,  two 
swimming  pool  personnel,  one  nature 
director,  one  arts  and  crafts  director, 
two  cooks,  two  groundskeepers  and  one 
office  assistant  arc  needed. 

Dales  of  employment  are  from 
June  3  10  Aug.  18,  1984. 

Application  forms  or  further  infor- 
mation can  be  oblained  by  contacting 
the  Rev.  Richard  A.  Schlak,  associate 
director,  al  Camp  Sequanota,  Jen- 
nerslown.  Pa.  15547,  before  Feb.  15 
1984. 

Housing  data  available 

Students  having  trouble  wilh  or  just 
looking  for  housing  should  contact  the 
Admissions  Office  early  in  December, 
Ms.  Mary  M.  Sinibaldi,  Admissions 
Recruiter,  commented  last  week. 

Admissions  Office  personnel  have 
been  in  contact  wilh  local  landlords  who 
presently  list  wilh  them  and  have  an  up- 
dated lisl  of  renlablc  places,  Ms. 
Sinibaldi  said. 


There  arc  88  black  and  white  keys 
on  a  piano. 


SPOTLICHTQMondiy,  Nov.  14,  I983d5 


goes  back  to  the  underworld 


E.  McLaughlin 

il  sludenl  from  Williamsporl 

iiless  Dcniclcr  blessed  its  growth. 
One  day  her  daughler 
Persephone  was  kidnapped  by 
nderworld  and  laken  inio  Hades 
niiurncd  Ihc  lo.ss  of  her  daughler 
lowed  nothing  on  earlh  lo  grow, 
ind  became  barren  and  desolale. 
lion  by  ihe  olhcr  Olympian  gods 
1  Dcmclcr  to  strike  an  agreement 
ilh  Ihe  king  of  Ihe  underground, 
icphone  would  be  allowed  to  live 
;)lher.  Demeter,  for  eight  months 
'ear.  The  olhcr  four  inonths  she 
irn  lo  the  underworld  and  lo  Ihe 
/ho  had  forced  her  into  wedlock, 
f  this  arrangeinenl,  Demcler  has 
h  of  plants  and  trees  only  while 
crsephonc  walked  on  the  surface 
of  Ihe  earlh  with  her. 
loiilhs  she  would  lay  the  ground 
sy  and  cold.  Thus,  we  have  the 
Cycle  of  growth. 

ipring  i,s  the  lime  of  Ihc  year  for 
id  budding.  Summer  is  the  time 
wlh.  Autumn  is  Ihc  lime  of  the 
Winter  begins  when  Persephone 


returns  to  Ihe  underworld  in  December, 

and  sadness  lingers  from  December 

through  March,  when  Persephone  returns 

lo  her  mother  to  slarl  the  seasons 

of  growth  again. 

Proof  of  this  story  can  be  found 

at  the  ruins  of  the  Temple  of  Demeter 

in  Eleusis,  Greece.    A  tour  guide,  with 

"tongue  in  cheek",  will  point  to  a  hole  in 

Ihe  ground  and  tell  you, 

"Thai  hole  is  where  Persephone  enters  the 

underworld  and  Demeter  wails  for  her  return." 

The  well  thai  she  drinks  from  is  only  a  stone's 

throw  away.    This  story  of  Mother  Earth 

and  her  daughter  Persephone  is  only  true  if 

you  believe  in  ancient  Greek  mythology, 

Ihe  lour  guide  admits. 

Again,  I  look  oul  of  the  door 

and  sec  two  late-growing  palches:  curly 

leaf  lettuce  and  a  tall  strand  of  dark  green 

Swiss  chard.   The  green  of  these  late  crops 

is  a  pleasing  reminder  of 

Persephone's  return  and  the  end 

of  Demclcr's  restriction  of  growth. 


Contract  provides  for  finish 
of  personal  computer  system 


By  Joan  L.  Thompson 
Adminislrativc  Affairs  Editor 

Among  contracts  awarded  at  last 
week's  Board  of  Trustees  meeting  was 
one  for  S146,611  to  complete  the  com- 
puter system  presently  being  installed  al 
the  College, 

This  money  will  come  from  the 
$1,441,05!  received  by  Ihe  College  from 
the  slate  as  provided  in  the  new  com- 
munity college  funding  law.  House  Bill 
177. 

The  contract  was  awarded  to  IBM 
Corp.,  of  Monloursville,  since  the  new 
equipment  must  be  compatible  lo  the 


Membership  drive 
now  on  for 

CIRCLE  K  Club 

for  applications, 
see  Tliomas  C. 
Leitzel,  Room 
301,  ACC  or 
Harvey  H.  Kulins, 
Room  131,  ACC 


IBM  S/38  computer  already  in  use. 

Separate  but  related  actions  were 
taken  to  approve  the  reorganization  of 
the  College  office  of  computer  services 
and  also  to  waive  College  policy  regar- 
ding tuition  for  both  full  and  part  lime 
staff  who  will  be  required  to  work  with 
the  personal  computers.  The  waiver  will 
permit  staff  lo  participate  in  in-service 
courses  without  cost. 

Reorganization  involves  several 
changes  of  position  but  no  salary 
changes. 

Anne  Weilminster  is  transferred 
from  operations  manager  to  informa- 
tion center  support  analyst;  David 
Kepner,  from  chief  operator  lo  opera- 
lions  manager,  and  Charles  Whitford, 
from  programmer/analyst  lo  chief 
operator. 

William  Ward  is  changed  from 
systems  analyst  to  information  center 
software/device  specialist,  and  Alan 
Tyson  is  changed  from  data  file  pro- 
grammer to  prograinmer  analyst. 
Thanksgiving  recess  scheduled 

The  College  will  be  closed  for  three 
days  for  Thanksgiving  recess.  No 
classes  will  be  held  and  offices  will  be 
closed  on  Thursday,  Nov.  24,  Friday, 
Nov.  25,  and  Monday,  Nov.  28. 

A  normal  schedule  will  resume  on 
Tuesday,  Nov.  29. 


»afeOBi»awMaaMiiiim'igia».     •  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiniiiiiiiii iiiiiiniiniii  i 

MONDAY  NIGHT  MOVIES 


^^«ii    «lllllPMI|llUlllM[l|illlU(pWyiilipppip»l|lllCt:)|^jj^^ 

Sit  Back  and 
Tune  In! 

I   NOV    14-  BUTCH  CASSIDY  & 

THE  SilNDANCT.  KID  | 


ACC  AUDITORIUM  ADMISSION  $1 ,00 


6 ISPOTLIGHT    Monday.  Nov.  14.  1910 

Briar  House  leads 
intramural  bowling 


Briar  House  leads  Ihc  learn  stan- 
dings in  llie  inlramural  bowling  league 
al  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park 
Ave.,  according  to  records  provided  by 
Ihe  Lanes'  managemeni, 

Briar  House's  record  is  13  wins 
and  five  losses. 

Tbc  inlramural  bowling  resulls 
from  Nov.  8  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

1.  Briar  House 

2.  Alley  Cals 

3.  Deslroyers 

4.  Melal  Men 

5.  Dew  Crew 

6.  Bull  Spinners 

7.  Millon 

8.  Flinlslones 


Wins  L(>s.ses 
13        5 
II        7 
10        8 
10        8 


Men's  high  single  game 

Franklin    J.     Seber,    electrical 

technology  student  from  Scranlon,  225. 

Kirk    D.    2^hn,    air    condilion- 

ing/refrigeralion     sludenl     from 

Fredericksburg,  225. 

Edward  E.  Berkebile,  plumbing 
and  healing  student  from  Stoyslown, 
194, 

Women's  high  single  game 
Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
sludenl  from  Cogan  Stalion,  181. 

Cynthia  M.  Cekovich,  floriculture 
sludenl  from  Mechanicsburg,  143. 

Linda    Sahm,    secretarial    science 
student  from  Williamsporl,  136. 
Men's  high  series 
Sebcr  bowled  a  635. 
Lane  Savage,  technical  trades  stu- 
dent from  Cogan  Stalion,  515. 

Myles    S.    Murray,    construction 
carpentry  student  from  Erie,  513. 
Women's  high  series 
King  bowled  a  449. 


Cekovich,  393. 

Nicola  S.   Reese,  general  studies 
student  from  Wellsboro,  353. 
High  learn  single 

Metal  Men,  874. 

Flinlslones,  860. 

Briar  House,  858. 

High  learn  series 

Metal  Men,  2478. 

Briar  House,  2419. 

Flinlslones,  2371. 

High  averages 

The  five  persons  with  Ihe  highest 
averages  are  Seber,  215;  David  A. 
Byers,  accounting  student  from  Millon, 
188:  Donald  E.  Pell  Jr..  plumbing  and 
healing  sludenl  from  Lykens,  565; 
Barry  F.  Voder,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Dewart,  167  and  Zohn,  165. 

Flag  football  schedule 
goes  up  this  week 

Next  week's  fiag  football  schedule 
will  be  announced  early  this  week,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activites. 

The  delay  in  the  schedule  is  due  to 
the  small  number  of  teams  eligible  lo 
play  al  the  beginning  of  this  week.  The 
oulcome  of  the  games  played  last 
Wednesday  and  last  Thursday  will  affect 
the  .scheduling. 

A  schedule  of  games  will  be  posted 
this  week  on  Ihc  Bulletin  Board  in  Ihe 
Bardo  Gym. 

Teams  may  contact  the  intramural 
alhlelics  and  College  activities  office  in 
Ihe  Bardo  Gym  for  information  concer- 
ning this  week's  schedule. 

Last  Monday  and  Tuesday's  resulls 
of  games  played  arc:  Radic's  Rebels 
beat  NAD'S,  36-20,  and  Radic's  Rebels 
edged  the  Dog's,  32-26. 


Intramural  basketball  rules 


Time 

I.  Two  20  minute  halves. 

1.  Two  to  miiuiie  quarlcrs  malcc  up  cacti  half.    One  minuic  brcali  bciwccn  quarlcrs  and  a  live 

minuie  break  bciween  halves. 

3.  The  clock  will  run  coniiriuously  unlil  Ihe  linal  Iwo  minuics  of  boih  halves.  Ii  will  ihcn  be  slopped 
during  each  stoppage  of  play. 

4.  There  will  be  Iwo  30  second  limeouis  per  half  for  each  (cam. 

5.  In  Ihe  cveni  of  a  lie  al  Ihe  end  of  regulalion,  there  will  be  an  ovenimc  period  of  three  minules. 
Each  Icam  receives  an  addiiioital  30  second  timeout  lo  uiilize  during  ihe  overlimc  period.  The  clock 
will  slop  only  during  the  final  minuie  of  the  overtime  period  upon  stoppage  of  play. 

In  Ihe  event  of  a  lie  following  Ihe  overtime,  there  will  be  an  overtime  period  with  Ihe  same 
stipulations  unlil  an  eventual  winner  is  determined. 

6.  limeouis  mil  ulilized  during  Ihc  allotted  period  do  noi  accumulate  and  Iherefore,  must  be  used 
wiih  discretion. 

Players 
There  will  be  Ihrcc  players  on  Ihc  court  for  each  team  during  play.  Failure  lo  have  ihis  amount 
will  result  in  automatic  forfeiture.  Minimum  team  rosier  is  six  players  and  cannot  exceed  12  player 

Subslilulions 

Substilulions  are  mandatory  at  the  five  minuie  mark  of  each  period  or  during  the  stoppage  of 
play  preceding  or  following  ihat  point.  This  mandatory  subsiilulion  will  require  complete 
changeover  of  personnel  on  Ihc  couri.  No  other  substitutions  are  allowable  excepi  in  the  event  of  an 
injury.  The  mandaiory  subsiilulion  rule  is  imposed  to  allow  every  player  an  opportunity  lo  par- 
licipalc  in  the  event. 

Fouls 
Fouls  will  be  called  by  the  individual  who  is  the  recipient  of  the  violation.  The  opposing  team 
is  expected  and  required  to  honor  ihe  foul  call  and  play  will  resume  wiih  the  ball  being  brought  into 
play  al  the  mid<ourt  line. 

Scoring! 
Baskets  will  count  for  two  points.  There  will  be  no  foul  shots  with  Ihe  exception  of  fouls  occur- 
ring during  Ihe  linal  two  minutes  of  each  half.  The  individual  fouled  will  be  awarded  Iwo  shots  if  he 
is  in  the  acl  of  shooting  and  will  receive  a  one  and  one  opportunity  for  other  foul  infractions.  In  the 
event  there  is  a  dispute  over  whether  the  individual  fouled  was  in  the  act  of  shooting  or  not,  the  of- 
ficial observing  Ihe  game  will  make  the  dcterminalion.  The  decision  of  this  official  is  final  and  play 
will  resume. 

Game  rules 
Play  will  begin  with  Icam  designated  by  the  game  official  as  the  home  Icam  pulling  it  into  play 
al  the  mid-court  line.   The  visiting  learn  will  have  possession  of  Ihc  ball  to  begin  the  second  half. 
Teams  will  be  responsible  for  calling  Iraveling  violations,  out  of  bounds  decisions,  ball  handling 
miscucs,  eic.   The  team  upon  which  the  violation  is  called  will  honor  the  call  and  play  will  resume 
from  Ihe  nearest  oul  of  bounds  point  from  where  the  infraciion  occurred  or  ihe  mid-couri  line. 
Games  will  be  played  by  N.C.A.A.  rules  in  all  inslances  exccpl  where  staled  olherwisc. 
The  reasons  for  these  changes  from  the   traditional  basketball  rules  are: 

1.  Due  to  the  space  required  lo  play  several  games  al  one  time,  Ihis  will  allcviaic  Ihe  problem  of 
player  overflow  adversely  alTccling  anolher  game  on  the  adjacent  court. 

2.  Ii  will  allow  each  individual  Ihal  regislers  lo  be  an  active  participant. 

3.  These  changes  provide  for  a  more  wide-open,  high  scoring  game. 

A  player  will  be  disqualified  for  unacceptable  behavior  in  an  uiisporlsmanlike  manner.  A  learn 
will  be  disqualified  for  repealed  violaiions  by  team  members. 


AA   Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers    you    can    own!       Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTfecofd  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  1770l|] 


OKOJ 


WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  joined  forces 
to  give  you  a  chance  to  w/in  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS-so  listen  to  WWAS  Monday 
thru  Friday.   To  win,  all  you  have  to  do  is  call: 

326-1408 

Your  Commercial  Free 
Place  To  Be 


El 


Author  presenting  writing  lecture 


SPOTLIGHTOMondsy,  Nov,  14,  ITOO? 


Annclle  Williams  Jaffee.  published 
author,  will  present  a  lecture  on 
"Writing  As  A  Way  of  Knowing", 
from  I  to  2  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Nov.  30, 
in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

Ms.  Jaffee  will  discuss  the  stages  a 
text  goes  through  during  writing, 
publishing,  and  also  share  writer  in- 
sights. 

This  lecture  will  lead  into  a 
workshop  from  2  to  3:30  p.m.,  where 
Ms.  Jaffee  will  answer  questions  about 
writing  as  a  career  and  editing. 

Groups  of  five  or  more  planning  to 
attend  should  contact  Mrs.  Fremiotti  in 
advance.  Interested  persons  may  pre- 
sent questions  to  Mrs.  Fremiotti  who 
will  then  forward  them  to  Ms.  Jaffee. 

Rep.  Gekas  seeks 
college  interns 

Congressman  George  Gekas  is 
seeking  interns  to  work  in  his 
Washington,  D.C.  office  during  the  spr- 
ing or  summer  of  1984,  according  to  a 
recent  news  release. 

"Internships  give  students  a  first- 
hand look  at  the  operation  of  the 
legislative  branch  of  government,  as  well 
as  providing  an  opportunity  to  engage 
in  some  interesting  projects  in  a  con- 
gressional office,"  according  to  Rep. 
Gekas. 

The  nonpaying  internships  are 
open  to  any  undergraduate  college  stu- 
dent. Preference  is  given  to  residents  of 
the  17th  Congressional  District.  Interns 
must  be  available  at  least  eight  hours  a 
week  for  a  minimum  of  two  weeks. 

Course  credit  is  often  availble  to 
students  through  their  colleges,  he  said. 
Students  interested  in  applying  may 
contact  the  Washington  olTice  at:  1008 
Longworth  House  Office  Building, 
Washington,  D.C.  20515.  Telephone: 
(202)  225-4315. 


The   popular   tune,   'Dixie',   was 
composed  by  Decatur  Emmetl  in  1859. 


Annetle  Williams  Jaffee 

PBL  manning  tree 
at  Lycoming  Mall 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  be 
manning  the  Christmas  tree  at  Lycom- 
ing County  Mall  from  1 1  a.m.  to  5  p.m. 
this  Thursday,  according  to  Paul  W. 
Goldfeder,  assistant  professor  of 
business  administration. 

This  is  a  community  service  and  the 
donations  will  go  to  the  Lung  and 
Health  Association,  he  said. 

Chairpersons  for  the  event  arc 
Michael  C.  Losiewicz,  retail  manage- 
ment student  from  Shamokin,  and 
Doree  M.  Snyder,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Montnursville. 

Books  arrive  in  Library 

New  fiction  and  non-fiction 
bestsellers  have  recently  been  delivered 
to  the  College  Library,  according  to 
Mrs.  Kate  Hickcy,  reference  librarian. 

These  books,  which  now  arc 
available  for  student  use,  are  shelved  at 
the  corner  of  the  circulation  desk. 

"We  will  be  purchasing  more 
bestsellers.  The  non-fiction  will  be 
primarily  in  hardback  and  the  fiction  in 
paperback.  They  will  also  be  stored  on 
the  new  shelf  at  the  corner  of  the  cir- 
culation desk,"  said  Mrs.  Hickcy. 


.CROSS  Coral 

1  Guido  72  Actor 

nole  Knijhl 

4  Ready  money  DOWN 
8  Some 

1  Fluent 

2  Athena 

3  Overwhelm 

4  Hebrew 


Ansvver  to  Last  Week's  Puzzle 


3  Lamprey 
7  Delineated 
9  Vessel 
1  High 


2  Chinese  mile 

3  White  House 

4  Kind  ot  Illy 


28  Romeo  < 

Juliet 
31  Small 


7  Male  deer 

8  Constituent 
e          9  Cote  dweller 

10  Marry 
high  11  Openings 
16  Digraph 


HAS3pTEM»CH~l 
A   R  A   rH  T  0    T    eWr   a  M 
SAlT?E|As|Atp 

|||mai   lIsates 
strainedIheII 

OR    Y|soe|    E    1     0    ER 

||em|blottebs 

0   U    rUo    FISEEOED 
P    EnBsaT    e|r    1     TA 
E   S    sBe   R    1  -S>S    E    EM 

18  Sw 


36  Dance  step 

37  Moham- 
medan r 


33  River  island 

35  Beam 

36  NJs  neigh- 


42  Priest's 

44  Negative 

45  Still 

47  Thailand, 
formerly 
49  Decade 
51  Hows  that' 
54  Snatch 
56  Decay 

58  Goddess  ot 

59  Whipped 
62  Pedal  digit 

64  Artificial 
language 

65  Sea  eagle 

66  Withered 
68  Violin  pan 

70  Pekoe 

71  Red  and 


20  Flap 

22  Serving  dish  39  Small  child 

25  Fruit  seed  40  Stitch 

27  Cravat  43  Split  ol  a  sc 

29  Ordinance  46  Much-used 

30  CBS  symbol  article 
32  Metal  48  Small  rug 


52  Ventilated 

53  Jog 

55  Mrs  Truman 


34  Attempt 


50  Memoranda     69  Scale  note 


■  ' 

2       3 

1 

4      5 

J- 

J- 

1 

a 

5^ 

10" 

" 

"           1 

13 

'* 

w 

ie       -u 

18 

" 

22^g23 

■■ 

" 

#1 

i 

2S 

30 

IK^ 

^ 

33 

i" 

w 

^ 

*' 

■ 

" 

-« 

"■ 

I 

" 

!?W« 

Fb 

52 

53 

61  _62           |Ki  g 

- 

1 

66 

n~ 

1 

ea  69 

m 

_ 

"           1        1 

72 

I 

Answer 
next  week 


r 


BENSON 


out  mini.   ^ 
/9Mn  market 


\. 


Corner  of  3rd  onij  Maynard  Sfs. 

Gas         Groceries 
Snacks      Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays 


J 


College  to  get  almost  $1.5  million 

With   the  passage  last   month  of  '''^'^"•"'  "otitying  them  ot  the  amount 

State  House  Bill  177,  the  College  will  ''^^V  *'"  '"^'^^"^  ''^sed  on  current  enroll- 

receive  a  windfall  of  $1,441051  "i*^"'  proiections  for  the  full  year.   The 

This  bill  provides  that  state  aid  will  "*''''  '^  "l^ulated  at  $156  per  student, 

pay  one-third  of  the  cost  per  student  up  The  remainder  of  the  money  will  be 

to  $800  rather  than  the  previous  amount  "^^d   for  the  purchase  of  "critically 

of  only  $150.  needed     instructional     and     non- 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  president,  instructional  equipment,"  Dr.  Breuder 

said  at  last  week's  Board  of  Trustees  said. 

meeting  that  $295,464  will  be  credited  to  One  item  that  the  money  will  go 

the    20    sponsoring    school    districts  toward  is  the  installation  of  the  personal 

against  the  amount  they  were  budgeted  computer  networking  system  presently 

to  pay.  being  installed  at  the  College.  This  item 

This  amount  is  the  difference  bet-  was  also  approved  by  the  board, 

ween  the  actual  one-third  share  of  the  «ioiiiinnniiiii,Classifipdqnaiio,i.niii,m,. 

cost  of  educating  each  student  and  the  barvsittfr  wamtfh  f     h/      ^ 

amount    the    state    would    have   paid  "ABVS  TIER  WANTED  for  3'/.  and 

before  the  new  law  increased  the  cap  on  ^JZ  i      .i,  ^'"^^  ,"„    '^P  T'''''' """ 

the  state's  share  no  earlier  Ihan  3:30.    Musi  have  own 


^ 


Iransporlaliiin   and   like  dugs. 
322-8522. 

FOR  SALE:  Rollbar  from  a  lale- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire.  Bar  only  used 
aboul  5  monlhs;  complete  wilh  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKE  ME  AN 
OFFER!!  Call  ExI.  221,  ask  for  Tom. 

FOR  SALE,  one  piirlable  electric  mike 
meeting  at  7  p.m".,'this  Thursday  at  the  an'P'ifi"  f"""  a  reel-(o-reel  (ape 
Pennsylvania  State  Education  Associa-  P'"''"'  ^"''^  ""^  ""  "''""  C'all  Coi- 
tion   (PSEA)    headquarters    in    South  jese^Exl.  457  ^;;^J,';];,„^;;,;,,g,^^„^,;ji„ 

Williamsport,  according  to  Richard  J.  FEMALE    BOWLEiTlsfEDED  T™ 

Weilminster,  associate  professor  of  hor-  Thursday    Nighl    Women's    League, 

liculture  and  WACCEA  president.  beginning  at  6:30  at  the  Faxon  Lanes. 

The   Association    will   submit   its  If  interested,  conlaci  Jan,  Room  201 

negotiation  package  to  the  College  at  of  the  Academic  Cenler-Exl.  241. 

the  end  of  November,  said  Weilminster.  ■"■"m»"™«'»™"«™™n'"™'uniuinmmiiiiiiiiiiiii 


The  board  unanimously  approved 
the  action.    Letters  were  sent  to  each 

WACCEA  to  hold  third 
negotiation  team  meeting 

The  Williamsport  Area  Communi- 
ty College  Education  Association 
(WACCEA)  has  had  two  negotiation 
team  meetings  and  will  hold  a  third 


SnSPOTLIGHT     Miioda>,  Nov    14,  198! 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


For  Keek  «/  Mnmlay.  Nov.  14  i/mmgli  Sunttar,  Nov.  20 
MEETINGS 

Phi  Beta  Lambda.. .man.  Wednesday,  firsi  floor  classroom,  Bardo  gym. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  fund  raising  meeling,  I  lo  2  p.m.,  Thursday,  Room  ITS. 
Academic  Cenler, 

College  Band...i:iO  lo  6  p.m.,  Tuesday,  Academic  Cenler  Auditorium. 

Sen'ice  and  Operation  of  Heavy  h'qiiipmeiil  Club...  1  p.m.,  Tliursday.  Room 
329,  Academic  Cenler  Audilorium. 

Forest  Technicians  Association. ..noon,  Tuesday,  Room  114,  Earlh  Science 
Campus. 

Women's Horum...  noon  lo  I  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Room  lO.f,  Academic  Cenler. 

AcrrviTiKS 

Hoagie  sale...  1 1a.m.  lo  I  p.m.,  Thursday,  Room  .113. 

Student  Government  Caucus.. .'i  a.m.  lo  4  p.m.,  Friday,  Academic  Cenler 
Audilorium. 

Tot  Watch...  lurecn  dinner  and  parciil  rncelini;,  6  lo  9  p.m.,  Thursdav,  Room 
105. 

Bill  C/an'...  Si ress  Managenieni  Workshop,  4:.30  lo  6  p.m.,  Thursday  and 
Evening  stage  show,  8  lo  9:15  p.m..  Academic  Cenler  Audilorium. 

Roller  skating.. .%  lo  l():3l)  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Sl<alinp  I'his.    hrcc  wiih  II). 


Basketball  rosters  available;  deadline  noon  today 

Inlramural  baskelball  roslers  may  Mill  be  picked  up  loday  bul  must  be  relum- 
ed by  noon,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolii.  coordinalor  of  inlramural 
alhlelics  and  College  aclivilics. 

Anyone  who  has  lurned  in  roslers  may  check  Ihc  inlramural  alhlelics  and  Col- 
lege aclivilics  office  in  ihe  Bardo  Gym  for  a  schedule  of  games,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolii. 

Games  will  be  scheduled  afler  6:30  p.m.,  Monday  Ihrough  Thursday,  Mrs. 
Fremiolii  said.    The  league  will  consisi  of  women,  men,  and  co-ed  leams. 

Persons  wiih  qucslions  aboul  inlramural  baskelball  or  open  gym  limes  may 
conlact  (he  inlramural  alhlelics  and  College  aclivilics  office  in  ihe  Bardo  Gym  or 
call  Exi.  269, 

WACCEA  to  send  ballots,  newsletter  to  faculty 


Developing  a  newsleller  and 
dislribuling  ballols  for  board  area 
represenlalives  was  Ihc  main  focus  al 
Ihe  Williamsporl  Area  Community  Col- 
lege Education  Association's  (WAC- 
CEA) meeling  al  7  p,m.,  last  Thursday 
at  Ihe  Pennsylvania  Slate  Education 
Association  (PSEA)  headquarters  in 
South  Williamsporl,  according  lo 
Richard  J.  Weilminstcr,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  horticulture  and   WACCEA 


president. 

The  monthly  board  of  directors 
meeling  assembled  information  from 
those  attending  Ihc  meeting  lo  formulate 
a  newsletter  for  faculty,  Wcilminsler 
said. 

With  the  news  letter,  ballots  will  be 
distributed  lo  faculty  to  vole  for  board 
area  represenlalives,  added 
Weilminstcr. 


$8,000  given  to  College   for  student  scholarships 


Conlimed from  Pafe  /■■■ 
menl,    floriculture,    nursery    manage- 
ment, forest  technology  and  wood  pro- 
ducts technology. 

They  must  have  graduated  from  a 
high  school  within  Ihe  Bl.aST  In- 
lermediale  Unit  17  (Bradford,  Lycom- 
ing, Sullivan,  and  Tioga  Counties); 
must  have  completed  al  least  one 
semester  and  must  have  a  grade  point 
average  of  3.0  or  higher. 

An  attempt  will  be  made.  College 
officials  said,  lo  selecl  a  student  from 
each  program  and  each  county.  Selec- 
lion  of  scholarship  recipients  will  lake 
place  between  Ihe  fall  and  spring 
semcslcr. 

Club  serves  wide  area 
The  Wheel  Inn  Inc.,  which  serves 


Tioga,  Bradford,  Lycoming,  and 
Sullivan  Counlies,  has  a  membership  of 
2,200  aclive  members.  Originally 
chartered  as  The  Fireside  Inn,  the  club 
was  an  outgrowth  of  the  Wheel  Club  of 
Williamsporl.  In  1947  it  was  re- 
chartered  and  became  Ihe  Wheel  Inn. 

Its  slated  purpose  is  to  organize, 
own,  and  operate  a  club  for  the  purpose 
of  providing  recreation  for  members 
and  particularly  to  provide  for  recrea- 
tion and  instruction  of  youths  in 
agriculture  and  horticulture  fields,  the 
charier  also  states  that  Ihe  Club  will 
provide  financial  assistance  lo  students 
inlereslcd  in  those  fields. 

College  'ideal'  choice 

The  $8,000  award  lo  the  College 
represents  the  first  lime  Ihe  Wheel  Inn 


has  provided  scholarship  monies  for  any 
purpose. 

The  College  was  selected  to  receive 
the  money  because  it  offers  all  the  pro- 
grams the  Wheel  Inn  wanls  lo  promote 
for  educational  purposes  and  it  also 
serves  all  of  the  counlies  in  the  club's 
service  area. 

Officials  of  the  club  fell  Ihe  Com- 
munity College  was  the  ideal  choice  lo 
administer  the  scholarship  funds. 

Wheel  Inn  presideni,  John  Schullz 
of  Williamsporl,  said  he  was  happy  lo 
see  Ihe  College  receive  Ihe  funds  and 


was  parlicularly  plea.sed  ihal  a  number 
of  sludenls  would  benefit  from  the 
Club's  scholarship  gifi. 

SGA  caucus 

Conlliiimlfroiii  Pate  /■■■ 

3:15,  with  a  reassembly  period  in  the 
audilorium  al  4  p.m. 

The  caucus  will  conclude  with  a 
lour  of  the  Earlh  Science  Campus  at 
4:30  p.m. 

Forty  students  and  seven  advisers 
are  expected  lo  attend,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolii. 


COMPLETE  AUDIO  SYSTEMS 

AS  LOW  AS  . . .  ^499°° 


(Financing  Available) 


The  Audio  Specialist  Since  1973' 
25  W.  Church  St. 
nt.    15  (Badman/Schurer  Building) 

Lewlsburg  Behind  EJ'S 

(717)  524-9182  Williamsport 

323-2622 

M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


When  your  folks  forgot  they  already 

sent  you  spending  money 

"Looks  like  a  Stroh  Light  night." 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W   Third  SI  ,  Williamsporl 
l/Vexl  to  Academic  Cenierl 
PHONE  AHEAO;    322  1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  llirii  Friday 


1 


service  I 

(•7  BEVERAGE   CO      ^ 

419-421  Fifth  Ave.  *  Williamsporl,  Pa.  •  717/323-3237 


-^Students 
visit 
(lie  College 
5 


^[^BUIilJBOJi? 


Mcindav.  Nm.  21,  19SJ     •     Vol.  \1.  No.  r.l     •     S  I'iibcs 

Collcsc     •     \Villin.iis|„.rl.  I';i    17701 


Williailisporl  Area  Ci 


/M  basketball 
clinic  to  be 
today,  tomorrow 

A  prc-lournamcnl  inlramural 
baskclbali  clinic  will  be  held  from  5  lo  8 
p.m.,  liiday  and  loniornnv  in  Ihc  Bardu 
Ciym,  accoidine  Ki  Mrs.  JdAnn  R, 
FreniiiHli,  coordinaliir  of  inlranuiral 
alhlctlcs  and  College  acliviics. 

The  clinic  is  designed  lo  provide  in- 
siruclion  on  Icchniques,  skills, 
siralegics,  and  safely  for  persons  in- 
Icresled  in  parlicipaling  in  Ihc  in- 
lramural baskclbali  program,  according 
lo  Mrs.  Frcmiolli. 

Rules  and  regulalions  will  also  be 
explained,  Mrs.  Frcmiolli  said.  She  ad- 
ded Ihal  Ihc  clinic  will  be  an  "inslruc- 
lional  period  for  Ihe  sludenls," 

The  clinic  is  for  all  parlicipanls 
■■■  Please  liiiii  in  Pa^e  8 

Students  to  attend 
New  York  seminar 

Second-year  reslanrani  managc- 
menl  sludenls  will  go  lo  Binghamlon, 
N.Y.  lomorrrow  lo  allend  a  .seminar 
aboul  alcohol  in  llie  reslanrani 
business. 

Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associaic 
professor  of  food  service  and  dicleiics. 
said  Ihc  sludenls  will  dcparl  al  II  a.m. 
and  be  back  in  Williamsporl  al  6  p.m. 

The  main  poini  of  discussion  dur- 
ing I  he  seminar  will  be:  how  a 
reslaiiiani  employee  should  delernhiic 
wlien  a  cuslonicr  has  had  loo  much 
alcohol  lo  drink  and  Ihe  methods  of 
dealing  wilh  such  a  person. 

Mrs.  Moon  noled  lhal  New  York 
lias  a  drain  shop  law  and  IVnnsylvania 
has  a  form  of  ihcir  Ihiid-parly  liabilily 
law.  The  essence  of  liolh  is  lhal 
anybody  who  is  injured  by  an  inio\- 
icaled  driver  in  a  car  accident  may  sue 
Ihc  ownei  and/or  employee  rcsponsihic 
for  .serving  Ihe  alcohol,  she  said. 


DISAPPKARING  cigarelle  trick  is  displayed  by  Bill  Clary  in  an  impromplu  ap- 
pearance in  Ihc  Academic  Center  Cafeleria  las(  Thursday.  Watching  her  lighted 
cigarette  vanish  is  Donna  K.  Frederick,  a  ciimputer  science  student  from  Lock 
Haven.   Clary  was  scheduled  to  give  various  presentations  that  day  and  evening. 

fSPOTLIGHT  phoKi  by  Liiii  M.  Lii/ie/ 

Clary  stage  show  draws  over  50 

Deadline  Itepnrt  by  Mary  L.  Pease 

Over  50  people  attended  Bill  Clary's  stage  show  enlilled  "Magic, 
Music,  Mystery,  and  Mime,"  last  Thursday  evening. 

Clary,  who  performed  on  "Saturday  Nighl  Live"  and  in  Burl 
Reynold's  movie  "Sirokcr  Ace",  performed  various  magic  tricks,  impres- 
sions, illusicnis,  and  played  a  12-slriitg  guitar. 

Small  children,  who  were  a  large  part  of  Ihe  audience,  were  called  on 
stage  as  "volunteers". 

Clary's  stage  show  was  well  received  and  seemed  lo  be  enjoyed  by  the 
audience. 


Photo  ID  cards 
will  be  distributed 
starting  today 

New  photo  idenlitlcation  cards  will 
be  issued  to  sludenls  this  week,  accor- 
ding lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  inlramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activUcs. 

All  current  fiill-limc  sludenls  arc 
required  to  have  their  photo  taken  dur- 
ing one  of  Ihc  following  scheduled 
limes: 

From  8  a.m.  to  3  p.m..  today. 
Earth  Science  Campus  lobby:  from  II 
a.m.  10  5  p.m.  tomorrow.  North  Cam- 
pus lounge,  and  from  10  to  1 1  a.m. 
Wednesday,  al  the  Aviation  Campus. 

On  main  campus,  from  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m.  next  Tuesday  through  Thursday, 
and  from  8  a.m.  until  noon  next  Friday, 
in  ihe  Academic  Center  (ACC)  lounge. 

From  8  to  9  a.m..  11  a.m.  lo  I 
p.m..  and  2:30  until  3:30  p.m..  Dec. 
5,6,7,  and  8,  in  Ihc  ACC  lounge. 

From  8  lo  9  a.m.  and  1 1  a.m.  lo  1 
p.m.,  Dec.  9.  in  Ihe  ACC  lounge. 

■■■  Please  liirii  la  Page  8 

Computer  Science 
holds  meeting 
tomorrow  at  3:30 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
hold  a  meeting  tomorrow  at  3:30  p.m. 
in  Room  321,  Academic  Center  (ACC), 
according  lo  B.  Drew  Robison,  com- 
puter science  student  from  Duncansville 
and  public  relations  reprcsenlative  for 
the  club. 

A  90-minute  color  videotape  on 
history  and  uses  of  word  processing  wilh 
a  short  discussion  about  the  movie  and 
upcoming  club  events  will  be  included  in 
Ihc  meeting,  said  Robison. 

Also,  he  said  the  meeting  is  open  to 
anyone,  not  only  club  members. 


SDSPOTLIGHTIDMondiy.  Nov.  21.  I«83 

The  SPOTLIGHT 

wishes  its  readers 
A  Happy 
and  Safe 
Thanksgiving 

Please  drive  defensively; 
we're  planning  a  Nov.  29 
issue.  We'd  like  you 
here  to  read  it! 


Joel  creates 
new  flavor 

...says  Donna  M.  Barnetl 

Billy  Joel's  lalesi  album.  An  Inno- 
cent Man.  has  a  1  950s  rock'n'roll  flavor 
thai  greatly  dillers  Irom  me  sleel  mills 
and  war  memories  sounds  ol  The 
Nylon  Curtain  and  Ihe  "baby,  lei's 
make  out"  lunes  o(  The  Stranger 

In  an  inlerview  with  Time 
magazine.  Joel  said.  "I'm  a  big  melody 
freak."  Tfiree  lunes  Irom  his  lalesi 
album  -"Leave  A  Tender  Ivloment 
Alone",  "The  Longest  Time",  and 
"This  Night"  -  prove  his  statement, 

Joel's  best  songs  have  Ihe  brash 
humor  and  Ihe  sad  sentiment  of  "Ihe 
boys  down  on  Ihe  corner"  "Easy 
Money"  from  An  Innocent  Man  reflects 
this  idealism  of  "the  boys  on  the  cor- 
ner", except  from  a  more  grown-up 
standpoint  than  his  earlier  "greaser" 
songs 

The  divergent  strains  ol  his  tough 
rock  and  romantic  melodies  have  fend- 
ed lo  keep  big  league  rock  critics  at  a 
distance,  but  according  lo  his  over- 
whelming record  sales,  his  fans  are  not 
so  far  away, 

IMary  L.  Pease 

Managing  Editor 
Annelte  M.  Engel 
Edltonal  Pagp  Ediloi 

Thomas  H.  Long 

Adverlising  Diieclor 

Perry  D.  Pentz 

Spoils  Edilor 

Lorl  IVI.  Lane 

Pholography  Editor  (Days) 

Barbl  L.  Chllson 

Phologiaptiy  Ediloi  (Evenings) 

Tllomas  F.  Montgomery 

DarKroorn  Manager 

Gregory  VI.  Huff 

Features  Edrlur 

Joan  L.  Tfiompson 


Senror  Slatt  Wnr 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  every  Mon- 
'  morning  ot  ihe  academic  year  by  journalism 
nieresied  sludenls  al  Ihe  Wiiliamspoil 


The  opinions  expressed  are  those  ol  iiie 
siudeni  newspapei,  ol  individual  wnleis  or  ol  in- 
dividuals inlerviewed  and  do  not  relied  Ihe  upi- 


Producllon  Team  Tlili  Issue:  Barbl  L 
Chllson,  copy  edilor,  Gregory  w  Hull 
videocomposition,  Kay  M  Frace,  produc- 
tion supervisor,  Lon  L  Holland,  Donna  M 
Bainell,  Shawn  w  Heverly,  and  Ttacey 
S  Wllleiie.  production  assislants 


Hunting  dangerous;  be  careful 

...In  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Temperatures  are  growing  colder  There  is  complete  silence  except  the 
rustling  of  leaves  by  Ihe  crisp  November  wind. 

A  camouflaged  figure  leans  against  a  solid  oak  tree.  The  figure  loses  its 
balance  and  moves  slightly  An  incredible  piercing  shot  breaks  the  silence  The 
figure  cries  out  lor  help 

This  could  happen  lo  yout 

■  ■  ■ 
This  situation  happens  more  than  once  durina  Ihe  hunting  season     Just 
because  hunters  do  not  follow  the  law  by  having  1 0O  square  inches  of  fluorescenl 
orange  material  on  the  head  or  on  the  chest  and  back  combined,  many  hunlers 
are  injured  and  even  killed 

Hunting  is  a  dangerous  sport  and  if  those  hunting  don't  follow  Ihe  law.  others 
suffer  because  of  their  negligence. 

Hunters  must  remember  nol  lo  discharge  firearms  or  other  deadly  weapons 
within  150  yards  of  occupied  buildings  wilhout  advance  permission  of  Ihe  occu- 
pant or  owner 

Olher  "don'ls"  are:  Don't  shoot  at  a  live  tree,  don't  shoot  at  random  within 
200  yards  ol  a  camp,  home,  or  shooting  range,  don't  hunt  deer  with  more  Ihan  25 
persons  in  one  party,  don't  shoot  at  big  game  taking  refuge  in  water 

Each  person  who  kills  a  deer  or  lurkey  must  tile  a  report  with  Ihe  Stale  Game 
Commission  in  Harrisburg  within  live  days  following  Ihe  killing  Anyone  who  isn't 
required  to  obtain  a  license  must  prepare  his  own  homemade  tag.  This  tag  must 
include  Ihe  hunter's  name,  address,  dale,  time,  and  county  in  which  ihe  game 


If  all  hunlers  read  and  follow  Ihe  laws  m  Ihe  small  book  of  Pennsylvania  Hun- 
ting Trapping  Regulation  Sept  1 ,  1 983  to  Aug  31 ,  1 984  -  which  is  issued  with 
each  license  -  everyone  will  have  a  sale  hunling  season  It  only  lakes  one  per- 
son to  make  several  sulleri 


"George,  it'll  wrork. 
They  won't  even  realize  you're  a  hunter!" 

ay  J   Hanlord Advenismg  art  student  from  Hugliesvilte 


To  SPOTLIGHT  readers... 


seals 

American 
business 


lo  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

I  totally  agree  with  you.  editorial  concerning  mandatory  child  reslraint  car 
State  government  has  no  business  interfering  with  Ihe  most  sacred  of 
stilutions  -  the  lamily     II  parents  want  lo  use  car  seals,  that  is  their 
on  Ihe  Olher  hand,  they  want  to  have  their  babies  catapulted  Ihrough 
car  windshields  Ihat  is  also  their  business 

r-h  m"^""  ?^'^""  ''"'  ™'  '^^  ^''°"'  "'^  ^^'^'y  °'  "^e"  children.  According  lo 
Children  s  Services,  there  are  approximately  240  reported  cases  ol  child  abuse  in 
Lycoming  County  each  year  Seventy  percent  (70%)  involve  physical  abuse 
iwen  y-(ive  percent  (25%)  involve  sexual  abuse  and  live  percent  (5«/.)  involve 
ZZ  0  '":^"'"  "''3'^"  '"  '  ^«2,  theie  weie  only  1  5,500  cases  of  child 
abuse  in  Pennsylvania     What's  a  lew  scattered  cases  here  and  there'' 

Let  s  face  i|t  II  babies  didn't  like  the  way  their  parents  were  treating  them  if 
they  felWte,  rtghts  were  being  infringed  upon,  it  they  tell  their  precious  Imie  souls 
were  being  endangered  then  they  would  have  formed  a  lobby  long  ago  and 
done  something  about  it     This  is  unequivocally  a  mailer  between  parent  and 


child     Slate  governmeni  should  |usl  keep  out 


Ms.  Kathryn  A.  Ferrence 
Career  Development  Specialist 


Students  take 
pride  in  campus 

...in  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

As  we  walk  around  the  campus, 
there  seems  lo  be  a  measurable  dif- 
ference in  the  overall  appearance- 
Students  seem  lo  be  taking  pride 
in  the  College,  Ever  since  attenlion  has 
been  focused  on  littering  around  cam- 
pus, paoer  is  beginning  lo  be  thrown  in 
trash  conlainers  and  cigarelle  bulls  are 
being  put  in  the  proper  receplacles 

On  Monday  nighls.  alter  Ihe  movie 
is  shown  in  the  Academic  Center 
Auditorium,  that  spot  seems  to  be 
much  cleaner  than  ever  before 

We  say  thanks  to  all  sludenls  and 
all  others  in  the  campus  community  for 
their  part  in  keeping  the  campus  look- 
ing neat  and  clean 

Serial  hits 
all  angles  of 
Vietnam  War 

...says  James  K.  Morrissey 

"Vietnam:  A  Television  History" 
can  hardly  be  called  Ihe  most  exciting 
show  on  TV,  II  is  a  documentary  serial, 
shown  on  PBS,  which  chronicles  Ihe 
Vietnam  War  with  archive  footage  from 
Ihe  networks  and  interviews  with  some 
parlicipants. 

To  my  mind,  the  events  and 
historical  facts  take  a  secondary  posi- 
tion lo  the  nightmarish  scenes  of  death, 
destruction,  and  inhumanity 

A  North  Vietnamese  soldier  grins 
as  he  recalls  how  Americans  were  Ihe 
easiest  enemy  to  kill  on  land  because 
they  were  naive  in  Ihe  art  of  guerilla 
warfare.  United  Stales  planes  rain 
havoc  from  the  skies  as  many  innocent 
civilians  are  killed  in  indiscriminate 
bombings  Gunfire  is  the  most  com- 
mon background  noise 

■  ■  ■ 

If  you  slarl  watching  Ihe  show  at 
10  p  m,  on  Tuesday  nights,  you  will 
see  the  war  as  it  winds  down  after  the 
Tel  Offensive,  an  attack  by  the  Viet- 
cong  and  North  Vietnamese  on  the 
South  Vietnamese  capital  and  olhdr 
strategic  localions, 

■  ■  ■ 

The  allack  of  Jan  30,  1968  has 
been  a  military  defeat  (or  the  Com- 
munists but  a  psychological  blow 
against  ihe  US  who  now  realize  they 
ate  fighting  against  a  determined  and 
organized  opposition. 

The  program  presenis  all  view- 
points on  the  war  but  it  does  have  a 
slight  anti-war  bias.  You  will  nol  be 
able  lo  watch  and  remain  unaffected. 


Letters  lo  SPOTLIGHT 
readers  may  be  delivered  or  sent 
to  the  oltice  tn  the  Academic 
Center.  All  letters  must  be  sign- 
ed and  signatures  wilt  be  authen- 
ticated: no  teller  can  be  publish- 
ed without  the  writer  s  name.  Let- 
ters should  be  300  words  or  less. 


Awards  presented 

to  students 

in  foods  programs 

Mary  F.  Gionia,  food  and 
liospilalily  managcmciil  sliidcnl  from 
Elysburg,  and  Palricia  M.  Scliiik 
McDonnell,  diciclic  Icthnician  sindcnl 
from  Williamspiirl  have  been  awarded 
scholarships  in  Ihc  value  of  $175  from 
liie  Maynard  Sired  Burger  King. 

The  awards  arc  based  on  academic 
achicvcmeni  and  financial  need,  accor- 
ding 10  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associalc  pro- 
fessor of  food  service  dielelics. 

Making  ihe  prescnialions  were 
Diane  L.  Dorncr,  manager,  Maynard 
Sircel  Burger  King,  and  Ray  Sicbbins, 
.assislani  manager,  Maynard  Sireel 
Burger  King  and  a  1982  business 
managemeni  graduate  of  Ihe  College. 

The  fasi  food  franchise  al  Maynard 
Sircel  has  presenlcd  scholarships  lo  Col- 
lege sludcnls  for  llic  pasl  four  years. 


SPOTLIGHTilMondiy. 

Nov.  21,  1983 

3 

Tlw  Winners! 

f  Iw   f*    < 

1 

■a 

WINNERS  of   ■•volleyhallalhon"   are 

^           J0^                                           « 

^V. 

(fronl)  Craig  S.  Harslead,  graphic  arls 

y^^m                      ■'                                                   .   ^f: 

sludeiK  from  Jersey  Shore;  Kalhrvn  R. 

^  ™ 

Rishcll.    graphics    arls    sludenl    from 

,  % 

Jersey  Shore;  (baei<  lefl  lo  righl)  Kric 

^I^K^B          '>'        W 

•  'i 

L.    Barr,    graphic    arls   sludenl    from 

Jersey    Shore,    Gary    A.    Whileman, 

■  -  ' 

general    sludies    sludenl    from    South 

w^m    ^ 

Williamsporl,  and  David  C.  Fink,  eom- 

fll^^^^^^^fllHfli      |lii*°'  ilWait-^  j^B 

!■[.;  , 

pulcr   science    sludenl    from    Tyrone. 

^■^ 

Dean    M.    Long,    (al    righl    in    baeli) 

Vi 

nursery    managemeni    sludenl    from 

^D 

Lililz.  presented  awards  donated  by  Ihe 

Hff 

1 

Alpha  Omega   Fellowship.   Ihe  group 

|H 

■     which  sponsored  the  event  on  Nov.  5 

l^l 

and  6.     (SPOTLIGHT)  pliolo  by  Lori 

rH 

M.  Lane) 

il. 

J 

IBM  computers  are  purchased 


IBM  personal  compulers  have  been 
purchased  by  Ihc  College.  The  com- 
pulers will  lie  in  ihe  Nonh  Campus  and 
Earlh  Science  Campus  on  Ihe  main 
frame,  according  lo  Carl  L.  Chris- 
lianscn,  direclor  of  compuler  services. 

The  College  has  already  purchased 
26  IBM-PC  compulers  which  arc 
localed  al  ihc  adminislralivc  level.  In 
addition  to  those,  26  more  PC  com- 
puters now  arc  on  order.  Shipmcnl 
should  arrive  by  the  end  of  ihc  year. 

Among  advantages  of  Ihe  IBM-PC 
compulers  are  that  they  will  provide 
eleclronic  mail  which  eliminates  typing 
memos,  and  that  ihe  system  will  impaci 
approximately  180  people,  said  Cliris- 
liaiusen. 

The  money  for  the  compulers  came 
from  Ihe  existing  fund  in  Ihc  budget,  ac- 
cording lo  Christiansen. 

A  series  of  classes  now  is  being  of- 


fered 10  Ihose  getting  the  computers. 
The  classes  arc  an  introductory  course 
which  is  mandatory  word  processing, 
data  based  managemeni,  and  spread 
sheet. 

The  classes  were  offered  this 
semester  and  will  be  repeated  in  Ihe  spr- 
ing .semester. 

Parking  hi  paved  and  lined 

The  parking  lol  behind  the 
Technical  Trades  Ccnier  is  paved  and 
lined,  Lawerence  P.  Smeak,  supervisor 
of  security  reminded  last  week. 

The  new  parking  lol,  which  was 
completed  Nov.  10,  provides  students 
and  faculty  with  approximately  40  new 
parking  spaces. 

Smeak  also  noted  that   motorists 
are   lo   park   within   the   lines   only. 
Anyone  outside  of  the  parking  lines  will 
be  fined  accordingly,  he  said. 


A/^   Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers    you    can    own!       Loud    is 

beautiful  if  It's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TheTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  a// your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  1770111 


Word  processing 
curriculum  a  'first' 
says  instructor 

A  word  processing  curriculum  was 
added  to  existing  College  courses  this 
fall.  This  curriculum  is  one  of  the  first 
of  its  kind  to  be  offered  in  post- 
secondary  institutions,  according  to 
Alex  W.  Bailey,  associate  professor  of 
business  administralion. 

"The  program  we  offer  look  on  its 
first  cla.ss  this  fall  with  29  students," 
said  Bailey.  "Most  of  Ihe  equipment- 
ranging  from  mag  card  lo  Ihe  highly 
sophislicated  IBM  display  writer  that  is 
used  in  this  program  has  been  obtained 
through  government  grants,"  he  added. 

Word  processing  means  Ihe  written 
or  spoken  word  on  paper  through  the 
use  of  computer-like  machines.  The 
program  is  designed  for  sludenls  lo 
become  cfficienci  operators  and  to 
prepare  for  positions  as  first-line  super- 
visors of  word  processing  centers,  Bailey 
said. 

Board  approves  hiring 
of  new  directors 

A  number  of  personnel  items  were 
approved  at  this  month's  Board  of 
Trustees  meeting.  Amcmg  them  were 
Ihe  hirings  of  new  directors. 

Dr.  George  Baker  was  hired  as 
director  of  high  technology  to  replace 
Dr.  Paul  McQuay,  who  resigned  last 
year. 

Baker,  who  has  19  years  of  ex- 
perience in  the  field,  received  his  doc- 
torate in  industrial  education  from  the 
University  of  Northern  Colorado.  He 
received  a  master's  degree  in  the  same 
field  from  Pcnn  State  and  a  bachelor's 
degree  from  California  State  College. 

David  Hoyes  was  hired  as  director 
of  business  operations,  administrative 
services,  replacing  Thomas  Wiley,  who 
resigned. 

Hoyes  has  a  bachelor's  degree  in 
business  and  management  from  the 
University  of  Maryland  and  about  12 
years  of  related  experience. 


DRIVE 

SAFELY 

ON  THE 

WAY 

HOME 

FOR  THE 

HOLIDAY 


FOR  SALE,  one  portable  electric  mike 
amplifier  from  a  reel-lo-reel  tape 
player.  Make  me  an  offer!!  Call  Col- 
lege Ext.  457  and  ask  for  Sandra. 

FOR  SALE:  RoNbar  from  a  la(e- 
model  Triumph  Spitfire.  Bar  only  used 
about  5  months;  complete  with  driver's 
side  padding;  black.  MAKE  ME  AN 
OFFER!!   Call  ExI.  221,  ask  for  Tom. 

FREE  CLASSIFIEDS 

for  students,  faculty, 

and  College  employees... 

Just  drop  Ihe  classified  off  in  Room  7 

(The  SPOTLIGHT),  or  call  ExI.  221. 

This  space  could  be  num.' 

FOR  SALE:  One  set  of  carpentry 
tools,  Only  used  at  Ihe  College.  $325 
negotiable.  CALL  J98-25I9  and  ask 
for  Lynn, 

FEMALE    BOWLER    NEEDED    for 

Thursday  Night  Women's  League, 
beginning  al  6:30  al  Ihe  Faxon  Lanes. 
If  interested,  contact  Jan,  Room  201 
of  Ihe  Academic  Cenler-Ext.  241. 


♦riSPOTLICHT  JMondsy,  Niiv.  21.  1983 


SPOTLIGHT  UPDATE 

Student  project  'looking  up' 


Professional 

Development 

Center 

work  goes  on 

•Leveling  cemenl  blocks  (upper  left| 
are  (left)  Scoll  E.  Fosler,  carpenlry 
and  building  lechnology  student  from 
Lenharlsville,  and  David  M.  Tafelski, 
carpentry  and  technology  student 
from  Lancaster. 

•Inserting  blocks  [upper  right]  is 
Joseph  A.  Illig,  carpentry  and  building 
technology  student  from  Eben.sburg  as 
Gary  M.  Lebo,  carpentry  and  building 
technology  student  from  Carlisle, 
looks  on. 

•Busy  at  work  |al  lower  right)  David 
M.  Taferlski,  carpentry  and  building 
technology  student  from  Lancaster 
(left)  and  Roy  M.  Donze,  carpentry 
and  building  technology  student  from 
Ivyland. 

•SPOTUGHT  photos' 
•By  Barbi  L  C/iilsorf 


A  Special  Feature  of  The  SPOTLIGHT 
November  1983 


SPOTUGHTiiig  People        Naveiiiher  IVS} 


Goldfeder  installed  by  PBEA 


Courtesy  College  lii/onualioti  Office 
Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assislani  pro- 
fessor of  business  adminislralion,  was 
installed  as  presidcnl  of  Ihe  Penn- 
sylvania Business  Educalion  Associa- 
tion (PBEA)  on  Sunday,  Nov.  13. 

The  College  educator  was  sworn  in 
as  president  at  a  brunch  at  the  Har- 
risburg  Marriott  where  the  1983  PBEA 
Conference  was  held  Nov.  II  through 
Nov.  13. 

Goldfeder.  who  is  also  president 
and  chairman  of  the  1983  PBEA  ccni- 
ference,  noted  that  several  key  speakers 
addressed  the  hundreds  of  educators  at- 
tending (he  conference. 

Main  speakers  included  Dr.  Gary 
Shelly,  educational  consultant  and  co- 
author of  the  textbook,  Fiimlamenlah 
of  Comptiler  Science;  Dr.  David 
Weaver,  of  McGraw-Hill  Publishing 
Company  and  author  of  an  accounting 
textbook,  and  Dr.  Phyllis  Morrison, 
also  of  McGraw-Hill,  who  spoke  on 
Megatrends  in  typing. 

Mrs.  Mu^lc  speaks 

One  of  the  presenters  at  the  PBEA 
conference  was  Mrs.  Veronica  M. 
Mu/ic,  professor  of  English  at  the  Col- 
lege, who  presented  "Oral  Comniunica- 
lions  for  Women". 


Some  of  the  programs  for  Ihe  three 
davs  included:  "Legislation  and 
Government  Relations  Alert",  "BASIC 
Prograitiming  Literacy  Worksnop  , 
"Word  Processing",  "Marco- 
Economics",  "Automated  Records 
Management",  "Accounting 
Methodology",  "Employability  in  Typ- 
ing", "Software  Concepts  Within  the 
Curriculum",  and  "Microcomputer 
Software  for  Accounting". 

Goldfeder  opened  and  closed  the 
conference.  Afso  allcnding  from  the 
College     were     Dr.     Donald     B. 


LEADS  THE  STATE 

...Paul  Goldfeder 


BcrgcrMock,  director  of  Ihe  Business 
and  Computer  Science  Divison;  Thomas 
C.  Leilzel,  assistant  director  of  business 
and  computer  science;  Patricia  J.  Slioff, 
a.s,sociatc  professor  of  business  ad- 
ministration, ai\d  Bonnie  R.  Taylor, 
associate  professor  of  business  ad- 
ministration. Mrs.  Shoff  and  Mrs. 
Taylor  were  chairmen  of  two  different 
workshops  and  introduced  speakers. 
Goals  oullined 

Goldfeder,  who  will  serve  as  presi- 
dent for  a  inic-year  term,  was  to  be 
sworn  in  by  Dr.  Wyiuiedilh  Rilchey,  of 
Everett,  the  outgoing  president. 

The  president-elect  said  his 
organization  strives  to  make  all  schools 
in  Pcmisylvania  ~  particularly  scctni- 
dary  schools  -  aware  of  what  Is  happen- 
ing in  legislature  and  the  impact  of 
legislation  being  enacted. 

PBEA  also  attempts  to  have  an  im- 
pact on  legislation  affecting  vocational 
education.  The  organization  also  helps 
keep  vocational  education  teachers 
abreast  of  Ihe  many  new  methods  of 
teaching  and  of  the  cverjncreasing  types 
of  equipment  available  for  ihe 
classroom. 

The  Pennsylvania  Business  Educalion 
As.sociatiun,  the  organization  for  secon- 
dary and  poslsccondary  educators,  in- 
cludes 800  members. 


Recovering  alcoholic  needs 
degree  to  better  help  others 


There  are  many  reasons  why  peo- 
ple come  back  to  school.  One  of  the 
most  noble  comes  from  30-year-old 
Robert  Miiiier. 

He  is  back  in  school  lo  obtain  a 
degree  in  journalism  so  he  will  have  the 
credentials  for  a  future  career.  He  said 
he  feels  this  degree  will  help  make  peo- 
ple lake  him  seriously  when  he  writes. 

Minier,  who  is  a  recovering 
alcoholic,  has  initiated  a  new  program 
called  Crime  Awareness  and  Prevention 
Program  (CAPP).  This  organization  is 
involved  wilh  helping  juveniles  deal  with 
their  crimes  and  with  drug  and  alcohol 
abuse.  There  are  currently  live  persons 
involved  wilh  the  organization. 


'The  method  we  are  using  involves 
showing  a  movie.  The  juvenile  can  pro- 
ject himself  inlo  Ihe  scenario,"  Minier 
said.  The  program  is  aboul  a  year  and 
a  half  old  and  has  helped  about  500 
youngsters,  he  said.  It  has  an  effective 
rate  of  aboul  85  percent,  he  added. 

CAPP  does  not  usually  get  too  in- 
volved with  the  treatment  of  the 
juveniles,  but  does  more  to  help  them 
realize  that  they  really  do  have  a  pro- 
blem, he  said.  Those  in  CAPP  can  then 
refer  the  young  persons  lo  some 
organization  better  equipped  lo  help. 
"I  can  plant  Ihe  seed,  but  for  the  seed 
to  grow  and  blossom...  it  is  up  lo  the 
juvenile." 

Minier  ads  as  a  big  brother  lo  five 
boys.  He  said  he  is  trying  to  help  these 
youngsters  straighten  oui  their  lives. 

CAPP  is  also  trying  to  get  its  pro- 
grams into  Ihe  schools  of  the  area.  Let- 
ters are  sent  to  area  schools  to  generate 
interest  in  ihe  program.  CAPP 
organizers  would  like  lo  go  into  Ihe 
schools  lo  show  their  movies.  As  of 
now,  one  school  -  Stevens  Junior  High 


~  has  accepted  the  offer,  bul  the  Parent 
Teachers  Association  will  preview  the 
film  first,  Minier  said. 

The  25-minute  reels  cost  an 
estimated  $3,500  lo  $4,000  each.  Local 
businesses  have  helped  fight  the  high 
cost  by  donating  money  as  well  as  photo 
and  sound  equipmenl.  CAPP  currently 
has  two  films. 

The  greatest  "reward"  Minier  has 
ever  received  from  being  involved  with 
CAPP  came  after  a  showing  of  one  of 
ihe  movies:  "Five  kids  came  up  and 
dumped  out  harmful  pills  they  were  tak- 
ing." Those  five  kids  still  call  and  write 
to  Minier  and,  he  said,  they  are  also 
gelling  along  beller  in  school  and  with 
their  parents. 


By  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


^ 


^'maiihci-  IV/IJ        SI'OlUCHliiig  I'eople        3 


A  Rose  in  Constant  Bloom 


By  Mary  L  Pease 
of  Ihe  SPOTLIGHT  staff 


'Hello,  meelhcarl... ' 

says  Mrs.  Rizzii... 

..and  I  he  miiniiiig  doesn't 

seem  so  bad  after  all 


"ll  seems  10  me  I'm  happiest  when  I'm  wilh  people.  My  parenis 
say  I've  been  somewhal  this  way  since  I  was  a  child,"  said  Rose 
"Rosie"  Rizzo,  cafeteria  cashier  al  Ihe  College. 

"I'm  nol  one  to  sit  home  and  knit.  Maybe  because  I  can't  sit 
still,"  she  added  with  a  deep  laugh.  So,  every  morning,  Ihis  petite 
woman  dresses  in  her  light  blue  pantsuit  uniform.  Most  women  might 
look  ordinary  in  her  attire.  But  Rosie's  penchant  for  bold,  beautiful 
earrings  glamorize  her  tiny  figure  and  bun  hair  style. 

"Oh,  I  wouldn't  trade  Ihis  job  for  love  nor  money,"  she  exclaim- 
ed. Working  for  the  College  for  the  past  eight  years  seems  to  have  been 
good  for  her.  She  beams  as  she  rings  up  lunch  after  lunch  for  hundreds 
of  students  and  faculty  everyday. 

Loves  young  people 
"I  always  loved  big  families  wilh  lots  of  children,  aunts  and 
uncles.  I  think  this  is  why  I  enjoy  working  here  at  the  school,  because 
of  all  the  students  and  faculty.  And  I  think  I'm  at  my  happiest.  I  love 
being  with  young  people,  I  really  do.  Young  people  are  very 
fascinating.  We're  very  quick  to  condemn  them  when  they  do 
something  wrong,"  she  said. 

Her  favorite  saying  is  'They  can't  take  education  away  from  you.' 
"I  think  everyone  should  have  a  good  education.  Any  kind  they  can  af- 
ford.  That's  one  thing  no  one  can  take  from  you." 

"I  often  think  had  I  gone  away  to  school,  I  might  nol  be  doing  this 
today,  which  is  what  I  love  most.    Bui  my  father  was  nol  financially 
able  to  send  me  off  to  college,"  she  said. 
She  wasn't  happy 

After  a  few  moments  of  conversing  wilh  Rosie  it's  obvious  that  she 
loves  people  and  being  in  the  public  eye.  Upon  graduation  from  the 
Williamsport  High  School  in  1938,  Rosie  marched  out  into  the  world  of 
work.  Enrolled  mainly  in  the  secretarial  courses  throughout  high 
school,  she  had  no  problem  landing  her  first  job  as  a  legal  secretary 
with  Lawyer  Michael  Maggio. 

"At  the  time,  I  was  very  unhappy  and  disappointed,"  she  said,  of 
her  nine  months  working  in  the  law  office.  "I  was  sealed  all  day  typing 
and  taking  dictation.    And  1  didn't  like  il." 

So  she  quit  and  moved  on  to  a  job  as  a  filter  in  the  shoe  salon  of 
L.L.  Stearns  Department  Store  in  Williamsport.  Later,  upon  hearing  of 
another  job  opening,  she  moved  to  "a  real  nice  job"  at  Brozman's  Inc., 
selling  women's  apparel.  Here  she  spent  22  happy  years.  "And  I  en- 
joyed that  very  much,  because  I  was  wilh  people. 
A  busy  lady 

While  holding  down  a  full-tiine  job  at  Brozman's,  Rosie  found 
herself  absorbed  in  other  activities.  She  was  president  of  the  PTA  and 
also  volunteered  for  several  charities:  United  Way,  Red  Cross,  and 
Muscular  Dystrophy  Associations.  "I  did  a  lot  of  collecting  in  my 
younger  years.    I  enjoyed  going  from  house  to  house,"  she  added. 

Probably  the  most  memorable  part  of  her  life  was  spending  lime 
wilh  Ihe  Maynard  Little  League  Association,  where  she  devoted  two 
years  as  auxilary  president  in  1957  and  1958.   Under  her  guidance,  the 


League  sponsored  bake  sales  and  other  "gimmicks"  to  raise  money. 
"When  I  accepted  the  presidency  of  il  (Little  League)  they  had  in  iheir 
treasury  exactly  $66.  When  I  turned  il  over  two  years  later,  1  had 
$865,"  she  said  proudly. 

"My  years  with  Little  League  were  very,  very  happy  years,"  she 
said  sincerely.  "I  loved  being  with  those  children.  The  same  as  I  enjoy 
being  wilh  these  young  people  here." 

Bui  limes  were  differeni 
She  slopped  and  refiected  on  her  younger  years  for  a  momeni. 
"We  weren't  angels.  But  the  children  of  today  aren't  bad  children 
either.  I'd  say  95  percent  are  going  to  become  wonderful  citizens." 
And  limes  were  certainly  differeni  Ihough,  as  Rosie  admits.  "But 
you  must  live  wilh  the  limes.  You  have  to.  And  you  have  to  cope  wilh 
everything,  you  know.  You  learn  to  do  that."  The  serious  expression 
quickly  left  her  face  and  she  added  wilh  a  hearty  laugh,  "Il  comes  wilh 
age!" 

"Cooking  Is  my  first  love,"  she  said  when  talking  about  her 
various  hobbies.  "It  lakes  a  lot  of  time  if  you  want  to  do  it  right." 
After  her  years  at  Brozman's,  she  operated  two  dining  halls  al  the 
Gcnctti  Lycoming  Hotel:  the  Scotch  and  Sirloin  Room  and  Ihe  Patio 
Roinn. 

"And  I  left  that  when  my  mother  became  ill.  I  stayed  home  with 
her  for  three  years  while  she  was  sick.  We  also  had  our  own  nightclub 
for  II  years,  my  husband  and  I.  Il  was  Ihe  Capitol  Grill,  and  it  was 
located  across  from  where  City  Hall  is  now.  Where  Ihe  old  post  office 
used  to  be." 

Rosie  even  went  as  far  as  operating  a  restaurant  in  her  own  home. 
"My  mother  and  I  ran  it  from  1946  to  1950.  Oh,  I  loved  it,"  she  add- 
ed. 

Married  in  1942,  Rosie's  husband  was  sent  overseas  wilh  the  ser- 
vice to  North  Africa  that  same  year.  Their  only  son,  David,  a  graduate 
of  Selon  Hall  University,  N.J.,  is  now  wilh  the  Pennsylvania  Tax  Of- 
fice, Williamspon. 

"I  have  been  a  big  believer  in  education.  I'm  very  happy  the 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College  has  progressed  since  1936.  1 
rememberwhen  it  started-when  it  was  a  technical  institute.  Il's  one  of 
Ihe  finest  community  colleges  whether  you  know  it  or  not.  One  of  the 
finest  in  Ihe  country.    Highly  recommended!" 

She  seems  to  have  found  her  niche  in  life.  Her  passion  for  people 
radiates  from  her  expressions  as  diners  pass  through  the  cafeteria  line. 
What  will  Rosie  Rizzo  be  accomplishing  five  or  ten  years  from 
now?  For  several  long  second,  she's  in  deep  thought.  Then  suddently, 
her  big,  brown  eyes  dancing,  she  exclaims,  "Housing  students  in  my  big 
home!  Oh  yes,  I'd  love  to  have  five  or  six  of  them!  If  Ihe  dear  Lord 
gives  me  my  health!  I  think  I  could  handle  Ihai.  l-.ven  ten  years  from 
now'" 


^ 


//;  I97H  pholo,  Mrs.  Rmo  wa\  captured  ly\  pluiKigruplwr  who  spot- 
ted her  decked  out  for  "Japanese  Lunch  Day".  ISPOTLIGHT  file 

phiiloj 


4       SPOTI.IOHTiiig  People        Nmemher  im 


Basketball  coach  says 
key  to  success'  is: 
play  as  a  unit 


"This  is  a  rebuilding  year  wilh  only 
Ihrcc  reluming  Ictlcrmcn,"  said  Louis 
J.  Menago,  baskclball  coach,  aboul  ihc 
upcoming  baskclball  season. 

The  Ihree  relurning  lellermen  arc 
Richard  A.  Sullon,  6'l",  175-pound 
conslruclion  carpcniry  sludcnl  from 
Towanda;  James  A.  Beally,  5' 10", 
160-pound  air  condilioning/rcfrigcra- 
lion  sludcnl  from  Warren,  and  Daniel 
A.  Johnson,  5'I0",  155-pound  general 
studies  sludcnl  from  Millon. 

Team  will  be  eompelilive 

Sullon  and  Bcally  were  cicclcd  cap- 
lain  and  co-caplain  of  Ihc  Icam  by  Ihcir 
Icammales,  Menago  said.  He  added 
Ihal  since  Ihe  voting  was  so  close  for  Ihe 
captain's  race,  Jon  A.  Ehly,  5'I0", 
155-pound  food  and  hospilality 
managemeni  sludcnl  from  East  Berlin, 
and  Thomas  J.  ProwanI,  6'4Vi", 
160-pound  business  management  slu- 
dcnl from  New  Columbia,  were  also 
sclcclcd  as  captain  and  co-caplain  for 
Ihc  Icam.  The  two  captains  and  two  co- 
caplains  will  be  alternating  from  game 
to  game,  Menago  said. 

"The  key  lo  success  is  Ihal  wc  play 
together  as  a  unil,"  said  Menago.  He 
added,  "The  learn  will  be  compclilive, 
bul  because  of  ihe  lack  of  size,  wc  really 
have  10  exccule  Ihc  fundamenlals  in 
order  lo  succeed." 

It's  a  quick  team 

"Wc  have  a  very  quick  leain  wilh 
good  oulsidc  shoolcrs.  We'll  have  to 
exploit  our  quickness  by  using  different 
types  of  trapping  defenses  and 
faslbreaks  whenever  possible,"  Menago 
said. 

The  Icam  practices  fmni  4  lo  6:.W 
p.m.  everyday  in  the  Bardo  (lym. 


By  Perry  D.  Peniz 
SPOTLIGHT  Sporls  Ediliir 


"Pradiccs  have  been  inlciise," 
.said  Menago.  Pradiccs  begin  wilh  20 
minules  of  stretching  exercises  followed 
by  one  lo  one  and  a  half  hours  of  drill- 
ing on  fundamenlals. 

The  leain  Ihen  walchcs  10  lo  15 
minules  of  game  films.  The  pradice 
concludes  wilh  work  on  offensive  and 
defensive  sirudurc  ahnig  wilh  several 
.scrimmages. 


Play  al  Buder  Counly  CC 

The  leam  opens  ils  season  al  9 
p.m.  today  al  the  Butler  Counly  Com- 
munity College  in  Ihe  Butler  County 
Communily  College  Tip-Off  Tourna- 
ment, said  Menago. 

The  Icam  will  play  either  al  7  or  9 
p.m.  tomorrow  if  it  loses  Ihe  9  p.m. 
game  today.  The  losing  teams  in  the 
(ournamenl  play  al  7  p.m.,  tomorrow, 
and  the  winning  teams  play  al  9  p.m. 
tomorrow,  Menago  said.  The  game  al  7 
p.m.  today  will  feature  Hagerstown  vs. 
Cuyahoga,  added  Menago. 


Basketball  team  leaves  today 
for  tournament;  coach  invites 
'fans  to  see  the  team  off 


Season  opener  lonighl 

The  remainder  of  ihe  Icam,  Iheir 
heights  and  weights  arc: 

Timothy  A.  Rodgers,  6'2", 
170-pound  broadcasting  sludcnl  from 
Boycrlown:  John  M.  Kellum,  6"6", 
205-pound  machine  lool  lechnology  stu- 
dent from  Brackney;  Michael  F.  Tur- 
pack,  5'10",  160-pound  general  studies 
student  from  Millon;  David  C.  Fink, 
6'2",  170-pound  conslruclion  carpentry 
student  from  Tyrone. 

Tyrone  L.  Guthrie,  5'10", 
160-pound  graphic  arts  student  from 
Macungic;  Mark  P.  Anderson.  6'0", 
165-pouiid  electronics  technology  slu- 
dcnl from  Pillow;  Richard  C.  Moyer, 
5'6",  140-pound  welding  student  from 
SoiJlh  Fork,  and  Thomas  R.  Champion, 
6'2",  175-pound  diesel  mechanics  slu- 
dcnl from  Pottsville. 


UP  for  two  is  Michael  F.  Turpacli, 
general  studies  student  from  Milton. 
Turpack  is  a  member  of  the  Wildcat 
basketball  team.  jSPOTUGHT 
photo  by  Lori  M.  Lane] 


^ 


North  Campus 
computer  students 
visit  main  campus 

Twenty  seven  eciin|inler  seicnce  ma- 
jcirs  from  Ihc  Norlh  Canipns  visited  the 
main  cam|ius  of  the  Cullcge  last  Tues- 
day. The  visit  gave  tlie  slndeiits  an  (ip- 
porlunily  to  become  familiarized  v\'ith 
the  eompiitcr  and  to  get  accinaintcd  witli 
terminals  nsed  at  I  lie  College. 

The  computer  science  utiit  at  the 
North  Campus  is  connected  with  the 
computer  at  the  main  cattipiis  by  phone 
line,  said  I'liomas  M.  Winder,  assistant 
professor  of  compitter  science. 

Joan  A.  Banks,  first  semester  stu- 
dent fr(nn  the  Norlh  Campus,  said, 
"it's  fun  to  see  all  the  cqtiipnienl  llrst 
hand." 

Winder,  who  also  teaches  at  the 
North  Campus  <in  Tuesdays  and 
Ihitrsdays,  guided  the  students 
throughout  the  day. 

rite  picigram  at  the  North  Caitipus 
is  a  new  one  which  started  this  fall. 
.Siiidenis  arc  able  to  take  all  the  required 
classes  for  that  program  at  the  North 
Campus.  Courses  range  from  English, 
tuath,  typing,  and  accounting,  to 
business  courses  and  physical  educa- 
tion, said  Winder. 

Cake  contest  held 

A  cake  decorating  contest  was  held 
last  Tuesday  to  end  a  10-week  beginning 
eakc  decorating  course  affiliated  with 
the  College  and  held  at  Ihc  Jersey  Shore 
Area  High  School,  accordiitg  to  Mrs. 
Linda  J.  Hawkins,  South  Williamsport 
Area  High  School  teacher  and  instruc- 
tor of  the  course. 

The  eight  women  siudents  were 
told  "exactly  what  to  do"  for  Ihc  class 
each  lime,  but  for  the  final  class,  the 
sijdenls  could  make  their  own  design  or 
copy  out  of  a  book  and  have  a  cotitcsl, 
Ihe  instructor  said.  "We're  not  having 
any  prizes;  we're  just  going  to  eat  the 
winner,"  Mrs.  Hawkins  said  jocularly. 

The  sludetils  arc  "more  critical  of 
their  own  work,"  she  added.  They 
"look  at  cake  books  through  new  eyes 
and  find  the  cakes  easy  to  do,"  she  add- 
ed. 

Students  cater  caucus 

The  Student  Ciovcrnmeiit  Caucus 
last  Friday,  spcmsorcd  by  the  Studcnl 
Goveriimetii  Asociation  (SCiA),  was  to 
be  catered  by  food  and  hospitality 
management  students,  according  to  D. 
Mark  .Scott,  a  food  and  hospiialily 
managemeiu  student  fr(uti  l.aurcltcni 
and  catering  manager  for  the  event. 
The  planticd  menu  was: 

Breakfast  consisting  of  coffee,  tea 
and  Danish  rolls  and  I  iinch  including 
egg  rolls  and  niaiidarin-style  turkey. 
Dcsseil  was  pnicappic  ginger  mousse. 


Can  that  Can! 

Put  Litter 

In  Its  Place. 


VISITORS  FROM  NORTH  CAMPUS  al  (erniinal  is  Charles  C.  Woodward, 

are  assisted  in  eonipuler  science  lab  by  computer     science     sludcnl     froni 

Thomas  M.  Winder,  assislani  professor  Sylvania.   (SPOTLIGHT phoU)  hv  Lori 

of  computer  science.   Student  working  M.  Lane) 

PBL  fund-raising  week  starts  today 


.  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  is  beginn- 
ing us  fund-raising  week  today  and  con- 
tinuing through  Dec.  10,  according  to 
Paul  W.  Goldfcdcr,  assislani  profes,sor 
of  business  administration  and  club  ad- 
visor. 

The  club  will  be  selling  iiems  such 
as  NFL  posters,  sun  catchers,  and 
acrylic  knicknacks  among  others. 


Chairing  the  event  is  Lisa  M. 
Wilcox,  computer  science  student  from 
Canton.  Co-chairperson  is  Paul  H. 
Pauling,  business  administration  stu- 
dent from  Montgomery. 

The  next  regular  PBL  meeting  will 
DC  al  12  p.m.,  next  Wednesday, 
Nov.  .W  on  Ihe  first  floor  of  Bardo 
Gym,  said  Goldfcdcr. 


Writing  lecture  is  next  Wednesday 

Annette  Williams  Jaffcc,  published  author,  will  present  a  lecture  on  "Writing 
As  A  Way  Of  Knowing",  from  I  to  2  p.m.  next  Wednesday,  in  the  Academic 
Center  Audtlorium,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotii,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

Ms.  Jaffee  will  discuss  Ihe  stages  a  text  goes  through  during  writing 
publishing,  and  also  share  writer  insights. 

I'his  lecture  will  lead  into  a  workshop  from  2  to  .1:.10  p.m.  where  Ms.  Jaffee 
will  answer  questions  about  writing  as  a  career  and  editing. 

Grcuips  of  live  or  more  planning  to  attend  should  conlaci  Mrs.  Fremiotii  in 
advance.  Interested  pcrscuis  may  present  questions  to  Mrs.  Fremiotii  who  will  then 
lorwaid  them  to  Ms.  Jaffee. 

College  will  sponsor  transfer  students 


A  reminder  to  sludeitls  who  are 
thinking  about  switching  to  another 
community  college;  This  college  will 
sponsor  a  studcnl  as  long  as  he  or  she 
wishes  to  pursue  a  curriculum  not  of- 
fered by  this  College,  according  to 
Chester  D.  Schuman,  director  of  admis- 
sions and  College  activities. 

It  afso  must  be  remembered  thai 
not  every  community  college  will  accept 
Ihe  College's  sponsorship,  Schuman 
said. 

Dr.  Miles  Williams,  dean  of 
employee  and  public  relations,  observed 
that  as  long  as  a  communily  college  will 


accept  the  W.A.C.C.  sponsorship,  this 
College  usually  accept  theirs. 

A  student  who  wishes  to  swilch  col- 
leges first  must  write  a  letter  to  Dr. 
Robert  L.  Breuder,  president,  staling 
the  desire.  The  request  is  (hen  taken  to 
the  Board  of  Trustees  for  approval,  Dr. 
Williams  said. 

Schuman  emphasized  that  transfer- 
ring is  only  possible,  with  sponsorship, 
if  a  student  wishes  to  take  studies  not 
offered  by  this  College  and  if  Ihc  other 
community  college  will  accept  the  spon- 
sorship. 


SP()TI.I(;HT  IIMnndn.  Nov.  21,  19831   5 

Bestsellers  are  purchased 
for  College  Library 

riie  Learning  Resources  Center  has 
purchased  several  new  bestsellers,  accor- 
ding to  information  provided  by  Mrs. 
Kate  Hickey,  reference  librarian.  Some 
of  the  titles  available  are: 

PotamI,  by  James  Micheticr,  an 
epic  novel  of  Polish  people  which  spans 
several  centuries. 

Secimd  Hcuvcii,  by  Judith  Guest,  a 
sensitive  story  of  two  lonely  people 
diawn  together  by  a  deepiv  Irouhlcd 
teenager. 

OiiiniiiCdii'.  Ach  iif  Everyday 
RchelliDiis,  by  Gloria  Stcincm,  a  collec- 
tion of  the  best  of  this  noted  feminist's 
writing  over  the  past  20  years  of  the 
W(nnen's  Movement. 

Mei:iiimu/s,  by  John  Naisbilt,  a 
primer  for  ilie  80's  which  discus.ses  10 
lieu  directions  which  are  Iraiisforming 
our  lues. 

'This  will  he  an  ongoing  process. 
We  will  aiicmpi  to  purcha.sc  these 
books  (new  bestsellers)  on  a  regular 
basis  so  ihey're  available  to  the  studcnis 
here,"  Mrs  Hickey  said. 

Former  student 
hired  by  the  College 
as  math  lab  assistant 

David  Cunningham,  a  former  stu- 
dent al  the  College  has  been  hired  as  a 
math  lab  assistant,  according  to  Diana 
Kutins,  coordinator  of  tutoring. 

Cunningham,  who  received  his 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  manage- 
ment from  Ihe  Pennsylvania  Stale 
University,  formerly  worked  in  the  Col- 
lege Tutoring  Center  as  a  student  tutor, 
according  to  the  coordinator. 

A  Williamsport  native,  Cunn- 
ingham will  work  20  to  30  hours  a  week 
in  Ihc  Tutoring  Center.  He  is  able  to 
assist  students  in  all  math  courses 
available  at  the  College,  according  to 
Ms.  Kuhiis. 

Tot  Watch  group 
to  sponsor  dinner 

On  Wednesday,  Dec.  14,  Parents 
and  Friends  of  Tot  Watch  will  sponsor  a 
lureen  dinner,  according  lo  Mrs.  Judy 
L.  Flory.  president  of  Parents  and 
Friends  of  Tot  Watch. 

The  dinner  is  open  lo  all  siudents 
and  their  families,  Mrs.  Flory  said. 

Parents  who  bring  their  little 
children  are  being  asked  to  bring  a  gift 
to  put  in  a  bag,  she  said.  The  gift  will 
be  from  Santa.  Parents  are  also  being 
asked  to  bring  a  covered  dish,  Mrs. 
Flory  added. 

Dentat  Hygiene  student  group 
to  ftold  hot  dog  sate 

The  Sludent  American  Dental 
Hygiene  Association  (SADHA)  will 
hold  a  hot  dog  sale  on  Thursday,  Dec.  I 
from  10:30  a.m.  to  2  p.m.  on  the  first 
floor  of  the  Academic  Center. 

The  price  for  one  plain  hoi  dog  is 
60  cents  or  two  for  $i.  Sauerkraut  hot 
dogs  are  75  cents  each  or  two  for  $1 .25. 
The  proceeds  will  go  toward  the  Student 
Board  Examination  Fund. 


6aSP0TLIGHTDM«ndtr.  Nov.  21.  19*] 


Seber  bowls  high  game  in  IM  bowling 

The  men's  high  single  game  in  ihc  Nitnia  S.    Reese,   general   siudics 

intramural  bowling  league  was  rnllcd  by     sludenl  fnim  Wcllsbord,  1.10. 
Franklin  J.  Scbcr.  cleclrical  lechnology  Men's  high  series 

.Sebcr  bowled  a  6.18. 
Troy     (i.     Kreidcr,     eonslruclion 
building    technology    student     from 
Williamsporl,  558. 
Zohn,  514. 

Edward  E.  Bcrkcbilc,  plumbing 
and  healing  student  from  Stoystown. 
514. 

Women's  high  series 
McNeil  bowled  a  405. 
West,  338. 
Reese,  352. 

High  learn  single 
Destroyers,  886. 
Alley  Cats,  847. 
Bull  .Spinners,  835. 

High  learn  series 
Destroyers,  2427. 
Alley  Cats,  2426. 
Bull  Spinners,  2425. 

High  averages 
The  five  per,sons  with  the  highest 
averages  arc  Scbcr,  214;  David  A. 
Byers,  accounting  sludenl  from  Milton, 
188;  Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 
healing  student  from  Lykens,  169; 
Zohn,  164;  Barry  F.  Yoder,  computer 
science  student  from  Dcwart,  164,  and 
Ray  L.  Wellcr,  general  studies  student 
from  Milton,  164. 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

B)r  Ptrry  D.  PciU.  SPOTLIGHT  Sports  Editor 


Student    from    Sera 

iton,   acci>rdinp   to 

records    provided 

by    ABC 

Sowling 

Lanes. 

Sober  bowled  a 

224  in  the  Tuesday 

aflernnon  league  a 

ABC.   1246  Park 

Ave. 

The    intramural    bowling 

results 

from  Nov.  15  are: 

Team 

landings 

Team 

Wins 

Losses 

1.  Briar  House 

16 

5 

2.  Alley  Cals 

13 

8 

3.  Metal  Men 

13 

8 

4.  Destroyers 

12 

9 

5.  Dew  Crew 

8 

13 

6.  Bull  Spinners 

8 

13 

7.  Milton 

8 

13 

8.  Flinlslones 

6 

15 

Men's  high  single  game 

Seber,  224. 

Myles  S.  Murray,  eonslruclion 
carpentry  student  from  Erie,  202. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  202. 

Women's  high  single  game 

Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  155. 

Judy  A.  West,  clerical  .science  stu- 
dent from  Montoursvillc,  132. 
Basketball  tournament  begins 
next  Tuesday,  Nov.  29 

An  inlramural  basketball  lourna- 
menl  will  begin  next  Tuesday,  Nov.  29, 
in  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Frcmiotli,  coordinator  of  in- 
lramural athletics  and  College  activilies. 

The  games  will  start  at  7  p.m.  and 
will  have  one  referee  per  game. 

Twelve  learns  have  signed  up  so 
far,  Mrs.  Fremiolli  said. 

Participants  may  check  the  in- 
lramural athletics  and  College  activities 
office  and  Ihe  intramural  bulletin  board 
in  the  Bardo  Gym  for  further  informa- 
tion pertaining  to  a  basketball  schedule. 


Intramural  table  tennis 
cancelled  for  rest  of  semester 

Inlramural  table  Iciinis  is  cancelled 
for  the  remainder  of  the  semester.  The 
Monday  night  activity  will  be  re- 
scheduled in  January,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

Those  with  questions  about  in- 
tramural lable  tennis  may  contact  Mrs. 
Fremiolli  in  Ihe  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activilies  office  in  Ihe  Bardo 
Gym. 


ROCK  HOURS:  7  p.m.  until  midnight 

WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  loined  forces 
l<i  give  you  a  chance  t<,>  win  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS-so  lisien  lo  WWAS  Monday 
Ihru  Friday     To  wiri.  all  you  have  to  do  is  call: 

326-1408 

Your  Commercial  Free 
Place  To  Be 


Although  we  have  touched  upon  the  following  subjcci  once  bctorc.  il  needs  lo 
be  reinforced  into  your  minds.  This  subjcci  is  fan  participation  in  intercollegiate 
sports. 

With  the  inlcrcollcgiate  basketball  season  starting  at  Ihc  College,  athletics  need 
to  have  students  supporting  them.  Without  that  support,  the  College  may  become 
a  college  without  intercollegiate  sports. 

The  sports  which  were  cut  from  Ihc  schedule  were  cut  partly  because  no  one 
supported  the  teams.  II  cannot  be  stressed  enough  that  there's  a  need  for  fan  par- 
licipalion.    We  know  there  arc  sludcnls  who  like  to  watch  basketball. 

Let's  lake  some  pride  in  Ihe  College;  go  walch  a  basketball  game,  for  example. 
Records  impressive 

The  records  of  the  sports  teams  (golf  and  cross  country)  arc  impressive  enough 
for  students  to  gel  interested.  But  that  was  not  the  case  when  we  went  lo  the  state 
cross  country  meet  just  15  miles  from  the  College. 

Then  the  excuses  slarl-such  as  "I  don't  know  how  to  get  there"  and  "I  don't 
have  any  way  to  get  there."  These  excuses  are  very  poor  considering  direclions  can 
be  obtained  through  coaches.  The  Iransporlalion  problem  can  be  solved  by  enough 
fan  participation  so  thai  one  can  get  a  ride  lo  support  the  team. 
Some  are  gifled 

Some  of  the  athletes  competing  in  the  intercollegiate  sports  are  gifted  in  Ihcir 
athletic  ability.  These  athletes  will  be  your  future  Ail-Americans  participating  in 
professional  sports.  Even  the  person  who  doesn't  like  sports  could  appreciate  the 
effort  and  delerminalion  put  forth  bv  Ihc  alhleles. 

To  the  alhleles,  fan  parlicipalion  is  important.   II  makes  the  alhleles  feel  good 
when  someone  in  the  bleachers  yells  to  them.   It  gives  them  a  boosi  to  see  thai  so- 
meone is  actually  watching  them  perform  iheir  certain  skills. 
Allendance  speaks 

If  fans  slarl  showing  up  al  the  basketball  games  in  quantities,  perhaps  some  of 
the  sports  which  were  cut  (women's  basketball,  wreslling,  field  hockey,  and 
cheerleading)  may  be  reinslilutcd  in  the  sports  schedule. 

But  if  students  actually  do  not  care  for  the  intercollegiate  sports  al  the  College, 
maybe  the  sports  should  be  cut  out  all  together.  Judging  from  parlicipalion  .so  far, 
Ihc  general  concensus  must  be  to  eradicate  sports. 

Sludcnls,  let  ihc  admiiiislralive  body  know  if  you  don't  want  sports;  bill,  if 
you  do  want  sports,  also  let  Ihe  administration  kiu)w  ~  by  attending  the  sports. 
Give  the  athletes  who  put  iheir  heart  and  "guts"  into  the  game  a  lilllc  support  for 
the  hard  effort  they  put  into  it. 

MONDAY  NIGHT  MOVIES 


ACC  AUDITORIUM  ADMISSION  $1 


IM  basketball  deadline 
extended  until  noon  today 

The  deadline  for  ihc  inlr.iiiuir.il 
biiskclb.ill  rosicrs  and  sign-up  h.is  been 
cMcndcd  iinlil  ncion  lod.iy,  .iccurdini;  In 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolii,  oxirdinalnr 
of  inlranuiral  allilelics  and  College  .ic- 
liviiics. 

"Wc  are  inlereslcd  in  oblaiiiin^ 
female  Icanis  and  parlicipanis,"  Mrs. 
Frcniiolli  coinmenicd. 

Any  persons  who  are  iiilcrcslcd  or 
who  have  qucslions  ni.iy  conlaei  Mrs. 
Fremiolii  al  llic  inlranuiral  alhleiics  and 
College  aclivilics  offiec  in  ihc  Baidn 
Gym  or  call  College  F,M.  269. 

Series  to  be  presented 

A  series  of  shorl  articles  on  Ihc 
awareness  of  alcohol  will  be  prcsenlcd 
weekly  based  on  informalion  provided 
by  Thomas  C.  Shoff,  counselor. 

"We,  from  lime  lo  lime,  will  deal 
wilh  drugs  in  general,  because  alcohol  is 
a  drug.  Bui  we'll  focus  primarily  on  Ihc 
abuse  of  alc(ihol,"  Shoff  said. 

"Wc  arc  concerned  Ihal  sludcnls 
be  aware  of  Ihc  polenlial  dangers  of 
alcohol  abu.sc,"  Shoff  .iddcd. 

Referee  clinic  held  last  week 

A  clinic  for  referees  for  Ihc  in- 
tramural basketball  league  was  held  last 
Wednesday  and  lasl  Thursday  in  ihc 
Bardo  Gym,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiolii,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  clinic  gave  instruction  on  how 
lo  make  judgemenl  calls  and  on  safely 
as  well  as  an  explanatiiui  of  the  rules 
and  regulations,  she  said. 


Can  that  Can! 

Put  Litter 

In  Its  Place. 


WHOEVER 

HEARD  OF 

REGISTRATION 

TAKING  FIVE 

MINUTES? 


If  you're  a  man  who  is  eigh- 
teen or  within  a  month  of  your 
eighteenth  birthday,  you  should 
be  registering  with  Selective  Ser- 
vice. To  register,  just  go  to  any 
U.S.  Post  Office  and  pick  up  a 
registration  form.  Fill  out  the 
form,  sign  it  and  hand  it  to  a 
postal  clerk.  It  only  takes  about 
five  minutes.  That's  not  a  lot  to 
ask  for  a  country  as  great  as  ours. 

Register.  It's  quick,  ll's  easy. 
And  It's  the  law. 


SPOTLIGHT    Miinday,  Nov.  21.  I9S3     7 


Mrs.  MiMin  (at  left) 
and  Mrs.  Miglio 

Six  $iij>|>eslions 

I'lir  enjciylii|> 

a  happier  TlianksKiving 

by  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon, 

Assiiciale  Prolesscir  ol  Kood  Service 

and 

Mrs.  Ann  R.  Migiiii, 

Coordinalcir, 

Food  and  Hiispilalily  Lalxiralorics 

1.  C'clcbialc  Thanksgiving  al  home 
wilh  family  and  friends  amund  a  steam- 
ing hottrofhol  cider  fra.craiil  with  ciii- 
nanion  and  oiangcs.  Discti.ss  pleasant 
happenings  and  ftituic  dreams. 

2.  Don't  worry  ab(Mil  gaining 
Height:  walk,  jog  or  do  dishes  two  or 
lliicc  lioiirs  aflct  ctiling. 

}.  Handle  iiirkcy  safely.  Iliaw  in 
rcliigcraicn,  disinfect  C(umlcrs  after 
ciiiiiaci  with  taw  bird.  Roast  and  chill 
quickly  tiiid  Ihoroughly. 

4.  Sirclcli  Iho'sciiiikcy  dollars  bv 
coMibining  Icluncis  wilh  pastas,  wafllcs, 
Inasis,  wilh  cniiics  and  Icfimer 
vegetables. 

5.  Menu:  Go  lighl  wilh  sorbets, 
ices,  cliilToMs  and  monvscs  hu"  dcsseil. 

(i.  Take  linic  in  be  ihankliil  for  the 
abinKhincc  of  our  American  blessines 
-hoih  niaiciial  .ind  spiiiiiial. 


Don't  Let 

■^i^  Dec.  5 

Dribble  Away... 

%l  Watch  Wildcat 
^., ,        Basketball 

^Bardo  Gym 


1  Cup:  Fr 

6  Surgical 

thread 

11  One's  calling 

12  Rewards 

Siberia 
15  Constellation 

17  Spanish 
article 

18  Knock 

19  Mine 

20  Nabokov 

21  Lit,  as  a  light 

22  Adjust:  var. 

23  Droop 

24  Squirrels  fall 
activity 

26  Urns 

27  Wampum 

28  Source  of 

29  Encourages 
31  Most  timid 

34  Peel 

35  Rips 

36  Vocal  pause 

37  Macaw 

38  Hikes 

39  Exist 

40  Symbol  tor 

41  Classify 

42  Entreaty 

43  High  regard 
45  Run  aground 

47  Domesticates 

48  The  ones 

DOWN 

1  Occupani 

2  Above  and 
touching 

3  Religious 
offense 


4  Compass 

5  Wearing 

6  Malice 

7  God  of  love 
6  Metal 

9  Lbs'  com- 
panions 

10  Sewing 
implement 

n  Philippine 
Moslems 

13  Narrow 

16  Piece  of 
jewelry 

19  Pseudonym 

20  Passageway 

22  Rugged 
mountain 
ridge 

23  Steps 

25  Musical 
drama 

26  Swerves 
28  Most  feeble 


Answer  to  Last  Week's  Puzzle 


^  0  _T  I   A    L    PM~7~BB 
S  W    A^   P  ■    A  1^  ■  "r  "O    L     E 

■  ■i;.i  b|2o  t|  e  1  r 

^    6    A    T    E    N#T  OE|fl  o 
[T|6|*Bs|6U|sBT|E|Db| 


1  Precic 


29  Swiftly  39  Word  of 

30  Emptiest  sorrow 

31  Reward 

32  Calm  42  Prefix:  before 

33  Wall<  on  44  Symbol  for 
35  English  baby         tantalum 

carriages  46  Symbol  for 
38  Woody  plant  ttiorium 


I 

' 

2 

3 

4       5 

1 

6- 

"^ 

"5- 

T" 

to 

■ 

^ 

■  " 

■  ^ 

.2. 

.2. 

Ipm^^ 

W 

■  ■ 

.at 

m 

33 

■  " 

■  3e 

■  " 

W 

i" 

k 

42 

1 

45 

■ 

jj 

4a       1 

I 

3  UnH«d  Feature  Syndicate.  Inc. 

Answer  next  week 


Phillip  D.  Landers     is  guest  speaker 


Phillip  D.  Landers,  assislanl  pro 
fessor  of  business  admiiilslralion,  was  a 
gucsl  speaker  al  the  South  Williamsporl 
Area  High  School,  Wednesday,  Nov.  9 
and  14.  His  topic  was  "A  Career  in 
Accounting". 

Each  presentation  was  attended  by 
50  senior  sludcnls.  Landers  presented 
his  audience  wilh  a  brief  overview  of  ac- 
counting job  requirements,  earnings, 
protnoliim,  advantages  and  di.sadvan- 
lagcs. 


He  explained  how  to  prepare  for 
Ihc  job  while  still  in  high  school.  He 
also  informed  students  where  they  could 
find  further  infortrtalion. 

Landers  said  he  related  his  topic  to 
Ihc  immediate  concern  of  the  sludcnls 
and  showed  a  connection  wilh  the  job  to 
whal  they  are  doing  in  high  school. 

He  u.sed  visual  aids  lo  capture  al- 
icntion  and  lo  clarify  points.  After  ihc 
preseiilalion  he  encouraged  the  students 
lo  ask  qucslions  about  Ihc  accounting 
profession. 


Highspeed 
High  Fidelity. 


yiLPINE 

car  audio  systems 

M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

25  W.  Church  S(. 

(In  The  Batdman  &  Schurer  Building) 
^(Behind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)5= 


O   ISPOTLIGHTI    Monday.  Not.  21.  1983 

BULLETIN 
BOARD 

For  fill'  iirck 

aJMimday.  Nm.2l 

ffiroiig/i  Sumlav,  Nnv.  27 

MKETINGS 

Cnmpiiler  Science  C'liih...  3:.?0  lo 

4:30    p.m..    lomorrow.     Room     321, 

Academic  Cciilcr. 

College   Band...  AM    lo    6    p.m.. 


1 0  m  0  r  r  0  w ,      Academic 
Audilorium. 

MOVIE 
Porliy's...l:W     p.m. 
Academic  Cenlcr  Audilorium 
sioii  $1. 


C'culer 


lonighl, 
Admis- 


1 

Willlamsport   Area 
Community  Collfgc 

IvauoationI 

1     STICKER     1 

NKW  PHOTO  IDKNTIKICATION  cards  arc  being  issued  (liis  week  lo  sludenls. 
The  II)  cards  are  blue  tvilh  a  while  hackjiriiund.  The  sludenls  phiilo  will  be  plac- 
ed above  (he  validalion  slicker.  Sludenls  will  be  required  lo  carry  Ihe  new  card 
wilh  Ihem  at  all  limes  while  on  campus.  Facsimile  shows  seal,  hul  nol  enlire 
design  lo  avoid  unaufhorized  use. 

Spaces  amiable  in  To/  Walch        PllOtO  ID  CQrdS 


Honor  system  lo  be  used  for  referring  inlramural  games: 

I.e.,  basketball,  volleyball,  soccer 

The  honor  sysicm  works  on  llic  followiuj;  lhcorclic;ii  principle: 

To  acccpl  as  valid  wilh  rcspccl.  Through  ihc  use  ol  ihis  vehicle  in  llic  propos 
cd  aililclic  progriiiiis  il  is  possible  lo  ailain  many  posilivc  rcsulis  ihai  arc  bcncfici.il 
lo  Ihc  parlicipaiils  and  ihc  program. 

1.  Rcspccl  for  sell  and  oilier  individuals. 

2.  Rcspoiisibilily. 

3.  Dcvclopmcnl  olcliaraclcr,  judgmciil,  honcsly. 

4.  Game  which  moves  swiflcr  due  lo  lacli  of  referee  inlcrvcniioii. 

5.  Abilily  lo  look  al  Ihiiigs  objcclivcly  and  acccpl  feelings  ihal  arc  iioi  necessarily 
Ihc  same  as  yours. 

There  will  be  officials  observing  cacli  game  lo  inicrvcnc  in  Ihc  cvciii  ihai  ilicrc 
is  a  silualion  where  individuals  arc  less  Ihan  honorable  and  lo  keep  ihc  limc.  I 
recommend  Ihis  system  due  lo  Ihc  fad  Ihal  College  is  expected  lo  be  a  maiiirni'j 
facility  and  this  is  ideal  for  Ihal  pursuit.  I  have  observed  and  parlicipaicd  in 
leagues  which  have  used  Ihis  sysicm  for  high  school,  college,  and  indcpciideiii  imir- 
namcnls. 

All  champion.ship  games  will  be  officialed  by  qualified  referees. 
Il'tihli'.liell  as  a  <vm/iin  service  hy  ihe  SI'OTLICHT.    Iiifnrmalinii  fiiiiihlml  hy  Mn,  JiiAnn  R. 
frciilinlli,  ino/dfliuliii  nf  iiHiuillurul  ul/l/rlic\  intil  Ottlciic  inlnilu\./ 

Basketball  clinic 

9  9  9C('iiliiifie(l  front  Page  I 

who  have  signed  up,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiot- 
li.  She  added,  "sludenls  must  show  up 
today  and  tomorrow  to  be  cliuiblc  for 
lournamenl  play.  Allendance  will  be 
taken  on  both  niglils." 

A  simulated  game  inchidiiig  par- 
licipaiils and  referees  will  be  played 
tomorrow  during  Ihc  clinic,  said  Mrs. 
Ficiniotti. 

Those  with  questions  may  contact 
Mrs.  Frcmiiilli  in  Ihc  inlramural 
athletics  and  College  acliviies  office  in 
Ihe  Bardo  Gym  or  call  College  ExI.  269. 


INTRAMURAL 

SPORTS 

SCHEDULE 

Today 

Football...  4  and  4:45  p.m. 
Open  gym...  4  to  5  p.m.  and? 
;i  10  p.m.  ': 

Tomorrow,  Tuesday 

Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gvm...  4  to  5  p.m.  and 
>  in  p.m. 
Fooib.iil...  4  ;ind  4:45  p.m. 
VVedncsdav,  Nov.  23 
S.KUT,,,  4  p.m. 


YOU 
need  an  ID... 

t^Check  this 

newpaper 

for 

times,  dates, 
and  places 


Sludenls  who  attend  the  College 
and  have  children  from  ages  IVi  lo  5 
arc  eligible  lo  use  Tot  Walch.  There  is 
still  room  for  approximately  10  more 
children,  according  lo  Mrs.  Judy  L. 
Flory,  president  of  Parents  and  Friends 
of  Tot  Walch. 


BARRY'S 

Third  Street 

Sandwich  Parlor 

and  Arcade 


1  W    3id  SI  1 

New,  clean  place 

erving  "N.Y.  style' 

deli-fair 

Open  Daily 

For  Breakfast 

Hours.  Mon  &  Tues- 

6a.m   12H/lidnighi 

■"    Wed.  Sun-OP«n24h'S 

iflii  lilt  Inny 
323-FOOD 


del 


Ciintinnedfwiii  Page  /■■■ 

Sludenls  musi  present  their  current 
ID  card  as  proof  of  enrollment.  Those 
sludenls  who  have  pelilioned  lo 
graduate  do  nol  need  lo  obtain  a  photo 
ID. 

For  pan-lime  sludenls,  (sludenls 
carrying  less  then  12  credits)  pictures 
will  be  laken  in  January  alcnig  wilh 
ncwly-cnrollcd  students. 

Any  students  who  have  questions 
about  the  pholo  schedule  may  ciniiaci 
Mrs.  Frcmiolli  in  her  office,  first  floor 
of  Bardo  Gym. 

The  new  pholo  ID's  must  be  car- 
ried by  sludenls  al  all  limes  and  nuisl  be 
kcpl  over  Ihe  holidays  and  summer 
vacaticm,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli.  There  is 
a  $10  replacement  fee  if  the  card  is  Insi, 

SPOTLIGHT  on  Tuesday 

The  SPOTLIGHT  will  be  publish- 
ed on  Tuesday  next  week  since  Monday 
is  a  College  holiday. 

The  following  week,  the  newspaper 
will  be  published  as  usual  on  Monday. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 

1100  W    Thud  SI  ,  Williamspoft 

INext  10  Academic  Centerj 
f  *\||\1g^      ,  PHONE  AHEAD:    322  1321 


OPEN  7:}0  a.m.  'lil  6  p.m. 
Monday  llirii  Friday 


GOOD  BEER  at  an 

excellent  price! 


Available  now  at 

(?7BEVERAf:F,    CO,      ^^"^ 

419-421  Kiflh  Ave    •  Williamsporl,  Pa.  *  717/323-3237 


Tuesday,  ^ov.  29,  1983    •    Vol,  19,  ^n.  14    •    4  Paees 
Williamsporl  Area  Commuiiily  ColleRe    •    Williamsporl,  Pa,  17701 


SGA  Causus 
'went  well' 

The  Studeni  Govemmenl  Associa- 
tion (SGA)  liosled  a  Nov.  18  Student 
Government  Caucus  which  involved 
three  focus  sessions,  a  campus  tour  and 
an  exchange-of-ideas  session,  according 
10  Ruth  A.  Fischer  and  Thomas  P. 
Brady,  executive  SGA  representatives. 

"Over  all,  it  went  well,"  said  Miss 
Fischer.  "We  had  them  fill  out  evalua- 
tions and  most  of  them  were  very 
positive." 

Twenty-seven  students  represented 
several  Pennsylvania  community  col- 
leges. "They  were  impressed  with  how 
large  and  clean  our  campus  was, 
because  most  of  them  come  from  cam- 
puses downtown  in  the  city,"  said 
Brady. 

Three  College  counselors  presented 
focus  sessions  during  the  day.  Thomas 
C.  Shoff  spoke  on  "Time 
Management",  Thomas  M.  McNally 
presented  "Stress  Management",  and 

mmm  Pkau  ,mn  I,- Pukl  4 


SPEAKING  ON  STRESS  at  the  Stu- 
dent Government  Association  (SGA) 
Caucus  Nov.  18  is  counselor  Thomas 
M.  McNally.  "We  don't  relax 
enough,"  observed  McNally  in  giving 
tips  on  coping  with  stress  and  how  to 
avoid  burnout.  Approximately  27 
students  representing  other  Penn- 
sylvania community  colleges  attended 
the  Caucus.  |SPOTLIGHT  photo  by 
Lori  M.  Lanel 


A  scene  of  the  mind,  depending  on  the  slale  of  mind?  For  hunters  just  pass- 
ed the  first  day  of  deer  season,  this  scene  may  be  "I  wish  I  had..."  For  con- 
servationists, this  scene  may  be,  "Isn't  that  a  beautiful  sight?"  Either  way, 
this  photodepiction  of  a  wall  mural  is  as  close  as  we  came  to  "winter"  over 
the  holiday.  By  the  way,  first  day  of  winter  -  and  maybe  it  will  snow  then 
~  is  Dec.  22.  /SPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Lori  M.  Lane/ 

'Writing  as  A  Way  of  Knowing' 
lecture,  workshop  tomorrow 

Published  author  Annette  Williams  Jaffcc  will  present  a  lecture  entitled 
"Writing  As  A  Way  ofKiiowiiig,"  finni  i  id  2  p.m.  inmurrow  m  iIk'  Ai.aocniiL 
Center  Auditorium,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnii  R.  Fa'iiiiniii,  uinulin.iidi  nl  m- 
Iramural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

Ms.  Jaffee,  who  worked  under  famous  author  Joyce  Carol  Gates,  will  discuss 
the  stages  a  text  goes  through  from  writing  to  publishing  and  also  share  writer  in- 
sights. 

The  lecture  will  lead  into  a  workshop  form  2  to  3:30  p.m.  in  which  Ms.  Jaffee 
will  answer  questions  about  careers  in  writing. 

Groups  of  five  or  more  planning  to  attend  the  lecture  and  workshop  are  being 
asked  to  contact  Mrs,  Fremiotti  in  advance. 

Interested  persons  may  also  present  questions  to  Mrs.  Fremiotti  who  will  then 
forward  them  to  Ms,  Jaffee. 


i  FMHSO  prepares  for  Christmas 


Topics  will  include  Christmas 
decorations  for  the  College  and 
Christmas  snack  preparation  for  disad- 
vantaged children  in  the  Williamsporl 
area. 

The  latter  activity  will  be  carried 
out  in  conjunction  with  the  Covenant 
Ccniral  Prcshvlcrian  Church,  Wc.<;l 
huirlli  ,Mra1.  ' 


The  Food  and  Hospitality  Manage- 
ment Student  Organization  will  hold  a 
meeting  on  Wednesday,  Dec.  7,  accor- 
ding to  Patricia  A.  Brown,  dietetic 
technician  studeni  from  Monlandon, 
and  Vivian  P,  Moon,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  food  and  hospitality  manage- 
ment and  program  adviser. 

Courses  offered 
at  North   Campus 

A  number  of  evening  programs  arc 
being  added  to  offerings  at  the  College's 
North  Campus. 

Persons  interested  in  obtaining 
degrees  or  certificates  in  the  evenings 
can  enroll  in  auto  mechanics,  auto 
technology,  air  conditioning  and 
refrigeration,  welding,  electronics,  com- 
puter science  technology,  accounting, 
business  management,  retail  manage- 
menl,  word  processing,  secretarial 
science,  general  studies,  and  individual 
studies. 


Photo  ID  schedule 
for  main  campus 

Photo  identification  cards  are  being 
issued  to  all  full-time  students,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

Students  may  report  al  the 
designated  lime  and  place  to  have  their 
photo  taken  for  the  new  ID  cards  for  the 
Spring  semester.  The  schedule  is  as 
follows. 

From  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  today 
through  Thursday;  from  8  a.m.  until 
noon,  Friday;  from  8  a.m.  to  9  a.m., 
and  11  a.m.  to  I  p.m.,  next  Monday 
through  Thursday  in  the  Academic 
Center  Lounge. 

Students  must  sJiow  their  present 
Fall  ID  card  as  proof  of  enrollment.  A 
replacement  fee  of  $10  will  be  charged  if 
the  ID  card  is  lost. 

Students  are  reminded  by  Mrs. 
I  Fremiotti  that  the  photo  ID  card  must 
be  kept  over  the  holidays  and  summer 
vacation. 

West  rolls 

high  game 

The  women's  high  single  game  in 
the  intramural  bowling  league  was  roll- 
ed by  Judy  A.  West,  clerical  science  stu- 
dent from  Montoursville,  according  to 
records  provided  by  ABC  Bowling 
Lanes. 

West  bowled  a  178  in  the  Tuesday 
afternoon  league  at  ABC,  1245  Park 
Ave. 

The  intramural  bowling  results 
from  Nov.  22  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

Wins  Losses 

1.  Briar  House 

17        7 

2.  Alley  Cats 

15        9 

3.  Metal  Men 

15        9 

4.  Destroyers 

13       11 

5.  Bull  Spinners 

11        13 

6.  Milton 

9        15 

•■■  /'/, 

>,  liini  l„  Pusr  . 

Championship  game  will  be  tomorrow 

The  championship  game  for  the  intramural  football  league  will  be  played  at  4 
p.m..  tomorrow  on  the  field  behind  the  Administration  Building,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R,  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  game  will  feature  Old  Mil  and  Radic's  Rebels,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

In  case  of  rain,  the  championship  game  will  be  played  at  4  p.m,,  this  Thurs- 
day, said  Mrs.  Fremiotti, 

The  following  football  results  led  up  to  the  championship  game.  On  Thurs- 
day, Nov.  18,  Old  Mil  beat  NADS,  42-26;  last  Monday,  Old  Mil  edged  The  Dogs, 
26-18,  and  last  Tuesday,  Old  Mil  beat  previously-unbealen  Radic's  Rebels,  34-6  to 
force  the  championship  game. 


laSPOTLICHTDToMdiy,  Nov.  2»,  1983 

Intramural  basketball  elimination 
tournament  to  begin  tomorrow 

The  intramural  basketball  double    each  other  at  7  p.m.,  this  Thursday, 
elimination  tournament  will  start  at  7  Thclosers  of  round  one  will  play  at 

and  8  p.m.  tomorrow  in  the  Bardo    8  p.m.,  this  Thursday. 

The  next  round  of  play  will  begin 

at  7  and  8  p.m.,  next  Tuesday,  Dec.  6. 

On  the  following  days,  games  will 

be   played   at   7   and   8   p.m.,    next 

Wednesday,  Dec.  8  and  Dec.  12. 

On  Dec.  14  and  Dec.  15,  the  cham- 
pionship games  will  be  played  at  8  p.m. 

West  rolls 
high  game 

Continut'd from  Page  /■■■ 

7.  Dew  Crew  8        16 

8.  Flintstones  8        16 
Men's  high  single  game 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton,  256. 

Trov  G.  Kreider,  construction 
building  technology  students  from 
Williamsport,  201. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  201. 

Women's  high  single  game 

West,  178. 

Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  172. 

Linda    Sahm,    secretarial   science 
sludent  from  Williamsport ,  165. 
Men's  high  series 

Seber  bowled  a  631. 

Barry  F.  Yoder,  computer  science 
student  from  Dewarl,  550. 

Dennis  Rosato,  electrical  construc- 
tion student  from  Hazlelon,  537. 
Women's  high  series 

West  bowled  a  498. 

McNeil,  430. 

Sahm,  374. 

High  team  single 

Metal  Men,  911. 

Bull  Spinners,  880. 

Flintstones,  879. 

High  learn  series 

Destroyers,  2588. 

Alley  Cats,  2530. 

Bull  Spinners,  2513. 
High  averages 

The  five  persons  with  the  highest 
averages  are  Seber,  214;  Kreider,  174; 
Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 
heating  student  from  Lykens,  166; 
Zohn,  165;  Yoder,  163,  and  Edward  E. 
Berkebile,  plumbing  and  heating  sludent 
from  Stoyslown,  163. 


Gym,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiolti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  schedule  is  as  follows: 
At  7  p.m.,  tomorrow.  The  Icemen  vs. 
Yuckatanners,  Wildcats  vs.  Animals, 
76ers  vs.  NAD's,  and  Bombers  vs.  But- 
ler's Boys.  At  8  p.m.,  tomorrow,  The 
Giggers  vs.  Dean's  Demolition  Crew, 
Bouncers  vs.  WeeHees,  and  Return  of 
Elwood's  Boys  vs.  R.T.  &  T. 

Bumps  have  a  bye  into  the  next 
round  of  play  at  7  p.m.,  this  Thursday. 

The  winners  of  round  one  will  play 

Make-up  basketball  clinic 
to  be  held  tomorrow 

A  make-up  for  basketball  par- 
ticipants will  be  held  from  5  to  7  p.m. 
tomorrow  in  the  classroom  on  the  first 
floor  of  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotli,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

All  students  who  have  signed  up 
for  the  double  elimination  basketball 
tournament  must  attend  the  clinic  in 
order  to  participate  in  the  tournament, 
Mrs.  Fremiolti  said. 

The  clinic  is  sponsored  by  the 
Lifelong  Education  Center  along  with 
the  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities office. 

Mary  L.  Pease 

Managing  Editor 

Annette  M.  Engel 

Editorial  Page  Editoi 

Ttiomas  H.  Long 

Advertising  Director 

Perry  D.  Pentz 

Sports  Editor 

Lorl  M.  Lane 

Photograptiy  Editor  (Days) 

Barbt  L.  Ctitlson 

Pttotogiaptiy  Editor  (Evenings) 

Ttiomas  F.  Montgomery 

Darkroom  Manager 

Gregory  W.  HufI 

Features  Editor 


Kay  M.  Frace 

Senior  Statt  Writer 
Qlsela  D.  Qrassley 

Senior  Statt  Writer 

SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLiGHT  is  pubiished  every  Mon- 
day morning  of  ttie  acadetnlc  year  by  journaiism 
and  ottier  interested  students  at  ttie  Wiiiiamspon 
Area  Community  Coiiege,  1005  W  Tttird  St  , 
Wiliiamsport.  Pa  17701  Teteptione  (717) 
326-3761,  Ext,  221, 

Ttie  opinions  expressed  are  Itiose  ot  ttie 
student  newspaper,  of  individual  writers  or  ot  in- 
dividuals interviewed  and  do  not  relied  ttie  opi- 
nion of  ttie  institution 


SPOTLIGHT  on  Monday 

The  SPOTLIGHT  will 
resume  its  regular  distribution  day 
~  Monday  -  next  week. 


'They  should  be  proud' 
...SANDRA  ROSENBERGER 


Production   Team   Tills   Issue: 

Mary  L,  Pease  and  Joan  L, 
Thomspon,  associate  copy 
editors;  Annette  M,  Engel  and 
Perry  D.  Pentz,  associate 
videocomposilion;  Jo  A,  Fritz, 
Kathryn  M.  Gilbert,  Gisela  D. 
Grassley,  and  Richard  E,  Kopp 
Jr.,  production  assistants. 


Development  of  programs 
goal  of  College  coordinator 

By  Annette  M.  Engel 
Edilorial  Page  Editor 

"My  job  gives  me  the  opportunity  to  specialize  in  something  I  really  like,"  said  Ms. 
Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of  community  based  projects. 

Originally  from  Pittsburgh,  Ms.  Rosenberger,  25,  was  graduated  from 
Washington  and  Jefferson  College  near  there.  She  received  a  bachelor's  degree  in 
economics  and  political  science.  She  then  went  on  for  graduate  studies  and  was 
graduated  from  the  Pennsylvania  State  University  with  a  master's  degree  in  public 
administration. 

She  took  a  graduate  internship  for 
the  State  Senate  in  Harrisburg  where  she 
worked  in  education,  education  policy, 
and  legislative  research.  "The  more  I 
worked  in  education  and  with  people  in 
colleges  and  higher  education,  I  realized 
that  was  something  I  would  like  to  do," 
Ms.  Rosenberger  said. 

Became  analyst 

After  nine  months  as  an  intern,  she 
became  a  full-time  legislative  analyst. 
Her  duties  included  more  research  on 
legislative  bills,  developing  bill  legisla- 
tion, and  actually  writing  bills. 

She  also  worked  on  education, 
education  funding,  economic  growth, 
social  issues,  and  women's  issues,  "The 
way  our  office  was  divided,  each  person 
had  areas  of  specialization  and  these 
were  mine,"  she  said. 

Her  job  as  legislative  analyst  lasted 
for  two  and  a  half  years;  then  she  came 
to  the  College  and  took  the  job  of  coor- 
dinator of  community  based  projects. 

"My  job  encompasses  two  things. 
1  coordinate  the  jion-credit  offerings 
that  the  10  counties  the  College  services. 
I  would  like  to  develop  those  courses 
and  really  get  a  good  mixture  of 
courses.  There  are  some  parts  of  the 
College's  service  area  where  1  would  like 
to  start  courses.  That's  a  goal  of  mine, 
so  I  have  to  explore  that  area,"  she 
said. 

'College  is  unique' 

Ms.  Rosenberger  likes  to  get  in- 
volved with  community  groups.  "There 
have  been  courses  for  the  Girl  Scouts 
and  senior  citizens  and  I'd  like  to  con- 
tinue offering  programs  like  that,"  she 
continued. 

Asked  about  students  at  the  Col- 
lege, Ms.  Rosenberger  said,  "I  really 
enjoy  talking  to  students.  Everyone  is 
positive  about  the  College.  Having 
come  from  outside  of  Williamsport,  I 
think  the  students  should  be  aware  that 
their  College  has  a  really  good  reputa- 
tion outside  of  Williamsport  and  among 
the  14  community  colleges  in  Penn- 
sylvania," she  said. 

"The  College  is  unique  in  its 
technical  program  and  I  think  they 
should  be  proud  of  their  school.  The 
students  should  be  encouraged  that  they 
are  getting  an  education  here,"  she  add- 
ed. 


WOMEN'S  FORUM 

of  The  Williamsport  Area  Community  College 

meets 

Tomorrow,  Room  103,  ACQ  ~  Noon 


Women  promote 
education  center 

Three  people  dressed  as  clowns  and 
six  women  connected  with  the  Lifelong 
Education  Center  were  at  the  Lycoming 
Mall  from  2  to  9  p.m.,  Nov,  16  to  pro- 
mote the  Lifelong  Education  Center,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Barbara  A.  Danko, 
director  of  Lifelong  Education. 

Nov.  16  was  National  Community 
Education  Day  and  was  observed  in 
conjunction  with  American  Education 
Week,  Nov.  14  to  18,  Mrs.  Danko  said. 

The  clowns-Jolly,  Patches,  and 
Mr.  Bill-were  from  a  clown  class  at  the 
College.  They  handed  out  stickers, 
balloon  animals,  and  brochures,  Mrs. 
Danko  said. 

While  children  visited  with  clowns, 
women  collected  names  for  the  Center's 
mailing  list  of  potential  students,  said 
Mrs.  Danko. 

"It  was  a  fun  way  to  talk  to  people 
and  promote  what  we  do,"  she  said. 

The  six  women  rotated  in  two  and 
a  half  hour  shifts,  with  two  women  on 
each  shift,  Mrs.  Danko  said. 

The  six  who  participated  were  Mrs. 
Marian  E.  Blackburn,  secretary  to  the 
director  of  Lifelong  Education;  Ms. 
Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of 
community  based  projects;  Mrs.  Carol 
F.  Kaufman,  coordinator  of  campus 
space  based  programs;  Mrs.  Margaret 
L,  Karaffa,  secretary  for  specialized 
Icchnical  education  and  community  bas- 
ed programs;  Mrs.  N.  Arlenc  Warner, 
secretary/evening  clerk,  and  Mrs. 
Danko, 


Clarence 
Donald  Duck, 


Nash    is   ihc   voice   of 


Holiday  ball  plans  finalized; 
today  last  day  for  reservations 


Plans  have  been  completed  for  Ihe 
College  employees'  holiday  ball  to  be 
held  at  Annunciation  Parish  Center, 
720  W.  Fourth  St.,  on  Friday,  Dec.  2, 
according  to  Miss  Jacqueline  A.  Staib, 
secretary  to  the  dean  of  employee  and 
public  relations  and  head  of  the  party 
committee. 

Today  is  the  last  day  to  make  reser- 
vations and  guests  are  welcome,  she 
said. 

Tickets  are  $10.50  per  person,  with 
(he  option  of  buying  a  refreshment  stub 
for  $1. 

Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  coordinator, 
food  and  hospitality,  and  students  from 
food  and  hospitality  will  serve  hors 
d'oeuvres  at  7  p.m. 

Dinner  will  be  served  at  7:30  and 
dancing  will  begin  at  8:30. 

Wayne  E.  Ettinger,  associate  pro- 
fessor, horticulture  and  second-year 
horticulture  students  will  provide  greens 
for  the  tables. 

Committee  members  are  Eleonore 
R.  Holcomb,  supervisor,  Bookstore; 
Catherine  R.  Klopp,  secretary  to  the 
dean  of  academic  affairs;  Kathryn  A. 
Landis,   secretary  to   the  director  of 

FOR  SALE:  brown  gas  range.  Fairly 
new.  CALL  323-6873,  or  contact 
Tony  al  (he  F.ar(h  Science  Campus. 

NEED  ANY  TYPING  DONE?  Will 
(ype  any  kind  of  paper.  Call  Sherry  a( 
323-5070.  Price  negiidable. 

LOST:  a  3'/:  m«n(h  old  black 
Labrador  puppy  answering  (o  (he  name 
of  Bobo.  LasI  seen  a(  (he  rear  nf  316 
GrearS(.,  Williamsp(ir(,  v/earing  a  red 
bandana  and  a  piece  of  rawhide.  If 
ANYBODY  has  any  informalion  con- 
cerning Ihe  puppy,  please  conlaci 
327-1220. 


Earth  Science  Division;  Nora  M.  Martz, 
secretary  to  the  president;  Steven  T. 
McDonald,  media  technician;  Jane  R. 
Miles,  secretary  to  the  dean  of  develop- 
ment. 

They  and  Miss  Staib  as  well  as  any 
division  secre(ary  "will  be  happy  to  take 
reservations,"  she  said. 

"We  had  about  115  a((end  last 
year  and  hope  for  an  even  bigger  (urn- 
ou(  this  year,"  she  noted. 

Three  to  attend 

Philadelphia 

conference 

The  1983  National  Adult  Educa-' 
(ion  Conference  will  be  held  at  the 
Franklin  Plaza  Hotel  in  Philadelphia 
during  this  week.  Three  representatives 
from  the  Lifelong  Education  Center  will 
attend,  according  to  Mrs.  Barbara  A. 
Danko,  director  of  Lifelong  Education. 

Attending  will  be  Ms.  Sandra  L. 
Rosenberger,  coordinator  of  community 
based  projects;  Mrs.  Carol  F.  Kaufman, 
coordinator  of  campus  space  projects, 
and  Mrs.  Danko. 

The  theme  for  the  conference  is 
"The  American  Association  for  Adult 
and  Continuing  Education  (AAACE): 
A  Declaration  of  Independence".  This 
is  the  first  anniversary  of  the  founding 
of  AAACE. 

Over  200  workshops,  several 
speakers,  and  a  few  exhibits  are 
scheduled,  Mrs.  Danko  said.  Some  of 
the  discussion  topics  are  adult 
psychology,  research,  evaluation,  adult 
learners  with  disabilities,  human 
resource  development,  adult  vocational 
and  career  education,  public  policy,  and 
conference  management. 

The  three  hope  to  "get  some  new 
ideas",  Mrs.  Danko  said. 


Grades  held 

if  tickets  not  paid 

All  students  who  have  unpaid 
tickets-tickets  not  "scttled"-on  Fri- 
day, Dec.  16  will  have  "holds"  placed 
on  grades  and  transcripts  in  the  College 
Records  Office,  according  to  Lawrence 
P.  Smeak,  supervisor  of  security. 

Such  a  "hold"  will  block  the  sen- 
ding of  transcripts  to  transfer  colleges 
and/or  block  the  sending  of  semester 
grade  reports  to  the  individual. 

Parking  changes  noted 

Reminders  about  parking  were 
given  late  last  week  by  Lawrence  P. 
Smeak,  supervisor  of  security. 

He  said  the  east  side  of  the  Ad- 
ministration Building  (paved  section) 
has  been  designated  as  "Blue  Sticker" 
parking  only.   • 

Also,  the  spaces  on  the  front  and 
west  side  of  the  automatic  teller  is  park- 
ing for  banking  customers  only  and  not 
for  College  parking,  he  said.  The 
automatic  teller  is  in  (he  lo(  adjacem  (o 
the  Academic  Center. 


SPOTLlGHTaTuesday.  Nov.  29,  I983n3 

Magician  Clary 
'very  pleased' 
with  audience 

Illusionist  and  comedian  Bill 
Clary,  who  performed  at  the  College 
Nov.  17,  was  "very  pleased  with  the 
response"  he  received  from  his  au- 
diences, said  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

His  schedule  included  close-up 
magic  performances  al  the  Earth 
Science  and  North  Campuses,  a  stress 
management  workshop,  and  stage  show 
titled,  "Magic,  Music,  Mystery  and 
Mime"  on  Ihe  Main  Campus. 

"Everyone  enjoyed  the  close-up 
magic  shows,"  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 
Clary  performed  randomly  at  tables  in 
the  Academic  Center  Cafeteria,  awing 
students  by  extinguishing  lit  cigarettes  in 
jackets  and  with  mysterious  card  tricks. 

About  80  people  attended  the  even- 
ing show,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said.  "There 
was  a  large  turnout  from  the  communi- 
ty. His  magic  show  appealed  to  all 
ages,"  Mrs.  Fremiotti  added. 


j  15  percent  off  j 


I  Offer  only  valid  willi  REGULARLY  PRICED  merchandhe   J 
A^^^^^ai  clip  &  save  mm^^^mm^Jk 


Jeans 


Lee 
Levi 

Wrangler 
Chic 


Sneakers 


Adidas 
Etonic 
Converse 
Puma 


WOOLRICH  brands  in  stock! 


MIKES  PlfACE 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williamsporf,  Ph.  322-1 1 1 7 

Mcin.-Wed.  S  Sal.  9:30  lo  5       Ttiurs.  4  Fri.  9:30  lo  9 


Church  of  the  Annunciation 

410  WALNUT  STREET 
WILUAMSPORT.  PENNSYLVANIA   17701 

Mass  Schedule: 

Saturday-4  and  5;30  p.m.      M 

Sunday-7:30,  9,  10:15,       ^P 

and  11:30  a.m.     mm 

'iTrr  •  II 

^^ 

p| 

H 

Sunday  Folk  Mass 

at 

5  p.m. 

If  interested  in  joining  (he  Folk  Group, 
c(.n(ac(  Fa(hcr  Kozcn  al  323-9456. 

mil 

IIIIIIIIIIUIIIUI 

i 

i 
iii„i.iii„.ii,i— J 

4nSP0TLICHT::Tiindiy.  Nov.  2».  'WJ 


r  BULLETIN  BOARD  I 

For  Ihe  week  of  Tuesday.  Nov.  29  Ihrnugh  Sunday.  Dec. 4  I 

MEETINGS 

Phi  Beta  Lambda... noon,  lomorrow,  firsi  noor,  Bardo  Gym. 
College  Band  ..4:30  lo  6  p.m.,  today,  Academic  Center  Auditorium. 
WomenS  Forum. ..noon  to  I  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  103,  Academic  Center 

"  ^Seniceand  Operation  of  Heavy  F.quipmeni  Club...!  to  8  p.m.,  Thursday, 

Academic  Center  Auditorium.  ,u  c,;„„„ 

Foresir)'  Technician  Association... noon,  today.  Room  114,  Earth  Science 

Campus. 

ACTIVITIES 

ID  cards. ..i  a.m.  to  4  p.m..  today  through  Thursday,  8  a.m.  until  noon,  Fri- 
day, Academic  Center  Lounge.  ,       ,        ■     „ 

New  York  Cilv bus  trip...6  a.m.  Saturday  departure  from  Uarning  Resources 
Center  (LRC).    Leaves  St.  Patrick's  Cathedral  at  9  p.m. 

Annette  tVilliamsJaffee... kdmc  about  writing,  1  to  2  p.m.;  workshop,  Z  to 
3:30  p.m.  tomorrow. 

Intramural 


Interested  in  IM  wrestling? 
sign-up  in  intramural  sports  office 

Any  persons  interested  in  intramural  wrestling  may  go  to  the  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities  office  in  the  Bardo  Gym  and  give  their  name  and  ex- 
pected wrestling  weight,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

"If  there  is  enough  interest  generated,  then  the  tournament  will  start  alter 
Christmas,"  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti.  , ,  ,       ,  ,■      .    . 

An  instructional  pre-tournamenl  clinic  will  be  held  before  the  wrestling  starts, 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 


Pegasus,  winged  horse  In  Greek  Ml.  Ncbo  was  the  mountain  from 

mythology  is  said  to  have  sprang  from     which    Moses    viewed    the    Promised 
ihc  blood  of  Medusa.  Land. 


iT 


Sports 
Schedule 

For  Ihe  week 
of  Tuesday,  Nov.  29 
llimugli  Sunday.  Dee.  4 

Today 

Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  4  to  8  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Football  (championship)...  4  p.m. 
Basketball...  7  and  8  p.m. 
Open  gym...  9  to  10  p.m. 

Thursday,  Dec.  1 
Baskelball...  7  and  8  p.m. 
Open  gym...  9  lo  10  p.m. 


SGA  caucus 

■■■  Coiiliiiued/mii:  Page  I 

Miss  Kalhryn   A.   Ferrcnce  discussed* 

"Communication  Skills". 

During  a  regrouping  session,  SGA 
representatives  shared  ideas  and  discuss- 
ed common  problems:  how  other  SGAs 
conduct  elections  and  chose  officials; 
procedures  to  make  change,  and  who 
controls  the  student  activities  budget. 

Plans  were  also  made  for  Luzerne 
County  Community  College  lo  host  Ihe 
next  caucus  in  the  spring. 

Miss  Fischer  said  she  wanted  to  ex- 
press "a  special  'ihank  you'  to  all  who 
helped-especially  lo  food  and  hospilali- 
ly  students  and  to  Ihe  counselors  for 
presenting  the  locus  sessions." 


cab's  College  Corner 


1100  W   Third  St 


Williamsport 

INal  to  Academic  Cenlert 
PHONE  AHEAD:    32M321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'HI  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


AA  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers   you   can   own!      Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

TiieTiecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  all  your  music  needs! 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701} 


BENSON 


^ 


#Ifit  mini   ^ 
nnt  market 


K 


Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts. 

Gas         Groceries 
Snacks      Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays      , 


service 

(•/BEVERAGE   CO 

419-421  Fifth  Ave.  •  Williamsporl,  Pa.  •  717/323-3237 


.  •>^,v.^„-,»^„...,^ -^jj , ^ , ^^^^ IIIIIIHIIUHIH 

Spotlight 


Monday,  Dec.  5,  1983    •    Vnl.  ig,  Nn.  IS    •    8  Pasts 
Williamspurl  Area  Communili  College    •    Williamspiirl,  Pa.  17701 


KIX  to  rock  Bardo  Gym  this  Wednesday  night 


Tickets  at  $5  on  sale  today  through  Wednesday 


A  fall  conccrl  fcaluring  rock'n'roll 
bands  KIX  and  Jaysenn  Grand  is 
scheduled  I'or  8  p.m.  Ihis  Wednesday,  in 
the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

Sponsored  by  the  College  Concert 
Committee,  in  cooperation  with  the  Stu- 
dent Government  Association  (SGA), 
J104  FM  Radio  Statimi  and  The  Record 
Store,  the  concert  will  kick  off  with 
warm-up  band  Jaysciui  Grand,'  followed 
by  KIX. 

KIX,  who  has  performed,  written 
and  made  sangs. such  aiU' Body  Talk" 
and  "Loco-Emolion"  popular,  gol 
their  start  in  Hagarstown,  Md.,  on  the 
club/bar  circuit,  where  they  played  ver- 
sions of  songs  by  AC/DC,  the  Stones, 
The  Clash,  and  Led  Zeppelin. 

Members  Steve  Whiteman,  Donnic 
Purncll,  Brian  Forsylhe,  Ronnie 
Younkins,  and  Jimmy  Chalfant  have 
toured  across  the  country  to  promote 
their  first  album  and  have  been  the 
warm-up  band  for  such  groups  as 
Cheap  Trick,  Triumph,  Judas  Priest, 
and  Ted  Nugent. 

"There's  more  to  entertaining  peo- 
ple than  just  playing  songs,"  said  bass 


guitarist  Purncll.  "We  want  to  get 
everybody  in  the  audience  itivolved,  to 
break  the  barrier,  so  they  don't  feel  like 
they're  forgotten." 

Tickets  are  on  sale  from  8  a.m.  to  4 
p.m.,  today  through  Wednesday,  in  the 
intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities office,  first  floor,  Bardo  Gym. 

Other  ticket  outlets  are  The  Record 
Store,  8'/2  W.  Fourth  St.  and  JI04 
Radio  Station,  Muncy. 

'Tickets  will  also  be  sold  at  the  door 
Wednesday  night.  All  tickets  are  $5. 
Additional  information  is  available 
fram  Mrs.  Fremielti  m  hw  offiee;  EK*.- 
269. 

f  Board  of  Trustees 

meet  loniglit  at  8 

The  regular  nionlhlv  meeting  ' 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  * 
'    College  will  be  held  tonight  at  8 
'    p.m.      in      the     Automotive  X 
^  Technology  Center  (ATC)  | 

■:'         Meetings  are  usualluv  held  at 
7  10  p  m   but  the  time  has  been 
.    tluinged     10     8     lor     tonight's 
meeting 


'Blue  Christmas'  workshop  to  be  held 


MAKING  WILUAMSPORT  PART  OF  THK  CIKt  III 
Rock  group  KIX  biniked  for  concerl  a(  CcplleBC  ICoiiilc\v  plmidl 

I 

I 


A  workshop  entitled  "Blue  Christmas"  will  be 
presented  by  Ms.  Kathryn  A.  Ferrencc,  career 
development  specialist,  from  noon  to  1:30  p.m.  this 
Wednesday  in  Room  105,  Academic  Center. 

The  workshop  will  focus  on  the  negative  feel- 
ings iliai  some  people  experience  before  and  after 
joyous  holiday  seasons. 

Many  people  gel  depressed  and  dread  Ihe 
holiday  seasons;  (hey  are  relieved  alter  Ihe 
holidays  when  Ihey  can  %n  hack  lo  Iheir  "niirnial 
life",  Ms.  Ferrence  said. 


Celcbrali(ni  Anxiety"  is  scnnelhing  that  |)coplc 
experience  when  they  are  looking  forward  to  a  hap- 
py occasicni  such  as  weddings  and  anniversaries.   In 


By  Annette  M.  Kngel,  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  slaff 

iheir  minds  lliey  visualize  how  the  occasiini  will 
hapiien.  People  anticipate  a  "storybook  event" 
but  things  go  wrong  and  they  are  di.sappoinied 
becau.se  they  want  perfection,  said  Ms.  Ferrencc. 

"Holidays  have  a  tendency  lo  niacnily  pro- 
blems Ihroughoul  Ihe  whole  year,"  she  said.  She 
indlcaled,  liiii,  Ihal  repealed  exposure  lo  holiday 
Infornialion  Ihrough  Ihe  mass  media  has  a  lol  lo 
do  wllh  depression. 

If  I  here  were  a  dcaih  of  sonie<Mic  close  lo  I  lie 
person  experiencing  holiday  anxiety  or  dcpressicni, 
I  lie  holiday  season  brings  around  a  second  grieving. 
There  are  the  reniembranccs  of  "whal  it  was  like" 
when  that  ceriaiii  person  was  around  dining 
Christmas. 


And,    Ihe    added    workload    involved    with 
preparati(ni    for    Christmas    brings    depression. 
When  it's  all  over,  many  ask:  Was  it  really  worth 
il? 

Furthermore,  Christmas  is  the  peak  suicide 
seasmi.    Being  depressed  at  Christmas  is  normal. 

"Holidays  are  a  mixture  of  being  very  happy 
and  sad.  "ICs  normal,"  Ms.  Ferrence  said. 

"U  you  don'l  expect  loo  much,  y<iu  won't  be 
so  depressed,"  she  added. 


Ms.  Ferrencc  will  give  the  same  presciilntiini  at 
7  p.m.  next  Wednesday,  Dec.  14.  al  the  Young 
Women's  Christian  A.ssociation.  The  workshop  is 
presented  through  the  College's  Wmnen's  Forum. 


3»e^^&C'*»»*'!>^^^">•■^^K»a^Cli&o^»c>i^B^c>^^,CJ,»CJ<^o«B^»CJ^5J^a'^^»s><»o«l^J»Cl^c»^^<»ct^^ttJBC>J»c^^fc<^fcJ»t>^»o^^c>^»c,^3^c>,»O^Ai»&«ft^o^l!l<»l^^^^^c>^c>a^P>^c>J^o^o^^fc^c><»c.^tt^a'5^ 


2i   SPOTI.ICHT    Miinday.  Dri.  5,  198.1 

Nicholai  Hel,  the 
assassin  of 
our  times 

reviews  Gisela  0.  Grassley 

In  the  book  Shibumi.  ihe  aulhof 
Trevanian  has  created  Nicholai  Hel, 
who  porlrays  Ihe  "perlecl  assassin  for 
our  limes".  Nicholai  Hel  was  broughl 
up  in  Ihe  cruelty  of  war  and  devasta- 
tion, by  his  aristocratic  Russian  mother 
in  China,  and  found  strength  and 
education  in  Ihe  arms  of  his  Japanese 
foster  father- 
It  was  this  man  who  instilled  in  him 
the  determination  to  attain  "shibumi", 
"Shibumi"  is  a  word  similar  lo 
charisma.  Literally,  it  means  the 
essence  of  beauty,  but  by  extension  it 
has  come  lo  mean  a  rare  kind  of  per- 
sonal excellence. 

Nicholai  Hel  is  taught,  through  the 
Japanese  devastation  of  China  and  the 
American  devastation  of  Japan  during 
World  War  II,  an  indelible  detest  for 
political  killing. 

Bui  it  is  killing  to  which  he  turns, 
using  his  mental  and  physical  strength 
to  destroy  political  terrorists-from  PLO 
to  CIA, 

There  is  only  one  organization  of 
terror  and  control  over  which  Hel  has 
no  power  to  defeat;  "The  Mother 
Country".  The  mother  Country  has 
become  fhe  superpower  of  espionage 
and  economic  monopoly  Bui  Hel 
takes  them  on  anyway-and  in  a  wild 
series  of  adventures  ranging  through 
the  subterranean  caves  of  the  Basque 
country  to  the  elegant  manor  houses  ol 
Britain.  Hel  demonstrated  why  he  is 
considered  "Ihe  world's  most 
dangerous  man" 

In  this  novel,  Trevanian  has  inter- 
woven themes  of  humor  and  cruelly. 
He  supplies  the  reader  with  terror  and 
erotic  love.  Shibumi  is  a  superbly  writ- 
ten novel  set  against  a  vivid  and  globe- 
spanning  background  The  book  is 
thoroughly  enlertaining;  this  Trevanian 
is  well  spiced.  Shibumi  is  by  far  Ihe 
best  ol  Trevanian. 


Big  business  after  'tlie  Gold',  too  Shrine  gives 

peace  of  mind 


...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Unless  you've  been  away  from  the  earth  lor  the  last  year  or  so,  you're  pro- 
bably aware  thai  the  1 984  Summer  Olympic  Games  are  scheduled  to  be  held  in 
Los  Angeles. 

Further,  you're  probably  equally  aware  that  the  U.S.  teams-lheoretically- 
receives  no  government  funding  lo  assisUhem  in  their  respective  pursuits.  But 
no  sweaL  fellow  official  citizenry,  our  amalure  athletes  are,  rather  substantiality, 
cared  for  "buy"  our  nation's  big  business  interests,  who,  for  a  flip  of  the  con- 
glomerate coin,  receive  the  opportunity  to  display  the  Olympic  logo  on  any  man- 
ner of  goods. 

Indeed,  it  seems  our  modern  olympians  are  up  to  their  earplugs  in  eager,  if 
not  totally  sincere  benefactors,  who  can  obviously  spot  a  mega-buck  or  two 
when  Ihe  opportunity  arises. 

Quite  simply,  Ihe  question  seems:  Does  the  U.S.  team  really  lake  a  solemn 
momeni  each  day  in  their  official  outfits  lo  ceremoniously  swallow  official 
vitamins  before  cuffing  down  Iheir  official  beer  while  taking  pictures  of  each  other 
with  official  cameras  equipped  with  (you  guessed  it)  official  film? 

(Unjofficially.  perhaps  these  big  business  concerns  should  set  aside  dreams 
ol  commercial  conquest-donate  anonymously-and  end  their  quest  for  the 
(public's)  gold. 


don't   look  at   it 
lu're  buying  me  a 


bar.  Think  of  it 
aking  an  invest- 
in    the    Olympic 


By  IVIurray  J.  Hanford 
SPOTLIGHT  staff  artist 


...in  fhe  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Well,  it's  about  that  lime!  lis  about 
lime  this  country  comes  lo  terms  with 
the  Vietnam  Wai  It's  about  lime  they 
faced  up  to  what  a  mistake  it  was  and 
how  much  pain  it  caused  the  soldiers 
and  Iheir  families  Above  all,  it's  about 
lime  we  recognized  the  efforls  of  those 
brave  men  and  women  who  gave  Iheir 
lives  in  this  "intervention" 

It's  been  roughly  10  years  since 
the  last  Vietnam  veteran  set  foot  back 
on  American  soil,  and  liom  that  day 
on.  it's  been  a  living  hell  for  many  of 
Ihem,  due  to  mental  breakdowns, 
physical  handicaps  from  shol-up  limbs, 
and  Ihe  slow,  steady  killer.  Agent 
Orange 

Feelings  have  changed  gradually 
but  steadily  The  people  ol  the  U  S  us- 
ed to  believe  that  Vietnam  vets  were 
"crazy"  or  "freaks"  and,  thus,  were 
outcasts  But  now  Ihe  public  is  starling 
lo  better  understand  the  agony  they 
sullered  while  at  war  Society  is 
welcoming  vets  back  bit  by  bit  Unfor- 
tunately, it  took  loo  long 

II  could  be  symbolic,  in  a  way, 
regarding  the  newly-erecled  Vietnam 
War  Memorial  in  Washington  DC  It 
took  1 0  years  for  America  lo  recognize 
Ihe  vets,  and  when  they  did,  they 
erected  a  shrine  in  Iheir  memory.  It 
was  a  long  time  coming,  but  it  finally 
came. 

As  people  lour  the  shrine  and  see 
the  names  of  those  who  died  in  Viet- 
nam or  those  missing  in  action,  they 
might  Jearn  to  appreciate  their  efforls 
better,  as  the  government  learned  lo 
do. 

If  the  shrine  does  nothing  else  for 
the  survivors,  it  will  at  least  give  them 
peace-of-mind  in  knowing  that  America 
is  beginning  to  understand. 


Today's  Christmas! 

Today  is  Christmas  It  is  for  those 
who  remember  -  as  the  end  of  the 
semester  begins  to  crunch  in  and  the 
Christmas  shopping  frenzy  increases  - 
that  Christmas  is  everyday 

If  we  would  but  think  about  the 
other  person, 

-...in  The  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 


The  Day  After'  shocked,  taught  many  viewers 


...says  Jo  A.  Fritz 

«  ..mI?""'^^^'  ^Z  ^°'  °"  '^^'='  ""^  '"°^'^'  "Tfie  Day  After",  shocked  as  well 
lllUn  T^"^°'  '^l""^""^'^  "The  Day  After",  starring  Jason  Robards  as  Dr 
Russell  Oakes  showed  how  Ihe  U  8  could  change  in  a  short  time  after  a  nuclear 
attack  as  well  as  Ihe  problems  caused  by  radiation 

ed  ll^:r:"'r  rf;^^^  :-  '^"^^  '="\''"  ^-" --''^  -^  '^°-  wno  surv.. 

'■'■'*  '^"i  "'  "rip  '-uivivurs  even  as  he 


ponders  the  loss  of  his  own  family. 

The  movie  doesn't  really  tell  who  started  the  aiiack  Was  li  the  United  Slates 
or  the  Soviet  Union*?  The  movie  also  does  not  describe  deslruclion  done  to  the 
Soviet  Union,  if  there  were  any. 

The  movie  is  a  learning  experience  to  make  people  stop  and  take  notice  The 
movie  does  a  good  |ob  of  showing  Ihe  viewers  whai  it  would  be  like  the  day  after 
a  nucleaf  aiiack 


and  oihet  iniefesied  students  ai  the  Williamspori 
,  Area  Communiiy  College,  1005  W,  Third  St, 
Williamspori,  Pa  17701  Telephone  (717) 
326-3761.  Ext   221 

The  opinions  expressed  are  those  of  the 
student  newspapet,  ol  individual  wfiiers  or  of  in- 
dividuals inierviewed  and  do  noi  reflect  ihe  opi- 


The  SPO  J  UGH  I  is  a  member  c 
bia  Scholasiic  Press  Association 


Thomas  H.  Long 

Adverlising  Dneclor 
Perry  D.  Penlz 
Sporls  Editor 
Lorf  M.  Lane 

Photography  Editor 
Barbi  L.  Chilson 

iislani  Phonography  Editor 


Production  Team  Thij 


Thomas  F.  Monlgomery 

Distribulion/PI\^T  Manager 
Gregory  W.  Huff 


5  Editi 


Joan  L.  Thompsi 

Administrative  Affairs 
Kay  M.  Frace 
Senior  Slaft  Writer 
Gisela  D.  Grasstey 

Senior  SlafI  Wriier 


EdiK 


STAFF  Donna  M  Bainell,  Ju  A  Fniz, 
Kaihryn  M  Gilbert,  Shawn  W  Heverly 
Lon  L  Holland,  Kathy  A  tyleixel 
Robert  W  Minier.  James  K  fylofrissey 
Gary  A  Nichols,  Josepli  P  Povleski 
Tracey  S  Willelte,  Richard  E  Kopp 
Marcy  L  Card,  fvluiray  J  Hantord 
and  Kalhy  R  Foreman 
Anthony  N.  CiHo,  faculty  adviser 


s  H  Long,  prtiduclion  supervisor;  Gisela  D 


SP0TI,K;HT   IMonday.  Dfc.  5.  1983 


Question:   If  you  could  be 
<mm^i>!mmm      ^"y  f"ovie  Star  in  the 

world  who  would  you  be' 
Why? 


Whaddya 
say...? 


Question  was  asked  in  front  of 
tfie  Academic  Center 
Auditorium,  before  the 
Monday  night  movie. 


Interviews  by  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 

Photos  by  Barbi  L.  Chilson 

Both  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  stall 


David  E  I  I'li-mjii,  general  sludies 
sludenl  Ifom  Selinsgrove;  "Clint 
Eastwood  ,  he  gets  the  job  done!" 


Todd  D  Bogenfie(,  computer 
science  student  from  Watsontown 
"TomSelleck,,,  I  like  his  car" 


Sean  M  Williamson,  forestry 
leclnnology  student  from  Williamsporl 
"Robert  Redford  ,  liked  him  as 
Jeremiah  Johnson." 


James  E,  Kirwan,  refigeralion  and  Lori  A.  (viengee,  computer  science  (Gregory)  Scott  lylarfin.  computei 

air     conditioning    student    from    student  from  Weilsboro:  "Sally  Fields       science  student  from  East  Petersburg: 
Johnstown:  "Burl  Reynolds     I  like  the   gets    to    be    in    movies    with    Burt    "Clint     Eastwood.       get 

chicks, ..lough  guy." 


the 


tasl  cars  and  the  chicks.' 


Reynolds." 


alliaipsporb 

3tion 


P.O.  BOX  2112     •     WILLIAMSPORT,  PA.  17703 
•     PHONE  323-0849 


The  DOWNTOWN  WILLIAMSPORT  ASSOCIATION  and 
the  participating  stores  listed  below  present 

COLLEGE  DISCOUNT  DAYS 

December  5th  thru  7th 

(Monday-  Wednesday) 
All  college  students  will  receive  a  10  percent  discount 
on  purchases!   They  must  show  proper  identification 
cards.   Some  stores  may  wish  to  exempt  certain  sale 
or  coupon  items 


Most  stores  are  open  from  9:30  a.m.  until  9:00  p.m.  Do 

your  CHRISTMAS  SHOPPING  now  while  stores  are 

fully  stocked! 

We  look  forward  to  serving  you! 


The  Artful  Codger 

Brozman's 

Court  &  Willow  Cafe 

The  Food  Shoppe  (at  Steam's) 

Gardner's  Candy  Box 

Ralph  B.  Grammer,  Jeweler 

J.C.  Greenya,  Jeweler 

Guild  Studios 

The  Intimate  Shoppe 

Krim's  Toys 

Logue's  Bootery 

Loyalsock  Art  Gallery 

Lucasi  Display 

McCarthy  Central  Florists 


Margaret's 

Martin's  Jewelers 

Mary  Lib's  (at  Stearns) 

Merle  Norman  Studios 

The  James  Meyer  Co. 

Mike's  Place 

Mr.  B's  Men's  Wear 

Nedzip  Pizza 

The  Needlebug 

Plankenhorn  Stationery 

Que  Pasa 

Raymond's  Gift  Shop 

C.A.  Reed  Outlet  Store 

Samurai  Subs 


L.L.  Stearns  &  Sons 

Troisi  Men's  Wear 

20th  Century  Bake  Shop 

The  Uniform  Shop 

The  New  Wilson's 

Woolworth 

Youngland 

AT  THE  URBAN  COLONY: 

Four  Seasons  Shop 

Olivia's 

Plush  Plus 

Robert  L.  Ulsamer,  Jeweler 

Urban  Colony  Card  Shop 

Williamsport  Dry  Goods  Co, 


4l JSPOTLIGHTi  (M(ilid»y.  Dec.  5.  tnj 


Arfwork  by  Mariv  I..  Card 
SPOTLIGHT  slalf  ailisi 


If  you  must  drink  &  drive.. 


DRINK 


WW 


i 


"^       \rw  '^  ff ' 


m 


WATCH  MY 

REAR  END... 

not  HERS!! 

FBI      ? 

FEMALE      BODY  INSPECTOR   ' 


LEGALISE  I 

KEEP  GRAN 
OFF  THE  ST 


Ejcpeiislve— 11 


SP()TI,l(;ilT    M(inda>.  I»«.  5.  1910    5 


A  prtMiiiK-clly  wise  imliNidiial  ontc  said:  "A  piciurc  is  wurili  a  llioiisaiid 
ttiirds."  S(i, spurred  by  ihis  heady  bil  of  wisdom,  we  headed  lo  ihe  parkiiw  spaces 
around  ihc  Colleec  m  scareh  of  "sijins"  of  iiiiclligeiiee. 

You  guessed  il.  We're  lalkin'  aboul  llic  c\er-popidar  bumper  slieU-i, 
Arucriea's  answer  lo...  well,  lois  of  ihings. 

Bumper  siiekers.  in  a  sense,  reveal  a  bil  of  insiehi  into  ihe  eharaeler  of  ihe 
driver  -  presuming,  of  ccCurse,  Ihc  "message"  was  affixed  by  ihe  currcnl  driver  and 
nol  some  marginal  psyeliopaih  on  ihe  Innaiie  fringes  of  soiieiy. 

So  here,  in  less  than  a  llnnisand  words,  is  a  sampling  of  \ery  iiinniii; 
sialcmcnis  being  advoealcd  around  campus. 

I'leas'e  remember  ihal  ailual  wisdinii  may  vary  in  your  area  depending  mi  gas 
mileage  and  philosopliieal  inelinaiiim. 

-GrcKory  W.  Hull,  SPOTLIGHT  Kta(ures  Kdil.ir 


Pholiis  by  Kalhy  Forrnian 
Of  Ihf  SPOTLICHl  Slall 


t  Mini  flnrlmt  fnr  Art  1  |||Wi|MII 

BINGE]' 
FREET 


GOD  RIDES 
A    HARLfY 


:cd5 


6    SPOTLIGHT    Miioday.  I)»c.  5.  1983 


Alley  Cats  roll  high  team  single 


HIKING  THE  BAI.I,  is  a  member  of  Ihe  Radic's  Rebels  IM  fodlhall  leam.  Old 
Mil  heal  Kadic's  Rebels,  28  lo  12  lo  win  the  in(ramural  fodlball  championship. 

(SPOTl.iaUT phdUi  by  Buihi  L.  CliilsoiiJ 

Interested  wrestlers 
may  sign  up 
for  intramurals 

Any  persons  inlcrcstcd  in  in- 
iraniural-  wreslling  may  sign  up  in  Ihc 
inlraniural  alhlclics  and  College  ac- 
livilics  office,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym, 
according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli, 
coordinator  of  inlraniural  alhlclics  and 
Colfege  aclivilics. 

During  sign-up,  sludenls  should 
sign  Ihcir  name,  curriculum,  home 
Iclcphonc  number,  and  the  cxpcclcd 
wreslling  weight,  .said  Mrs.  Frcmiolti. 

If  Ihcrc  is  enough  inlercsl 
generalcd,  Ihen  a  wreslling  lournamenl 
will  be  started  in  January  of  Ihe  Spring 
semester,  Mrs.  Fremiolli  said. 

An  instructional  pre-lournamcnl 
clinic  will  be  held  before  wreslling 
begins,  said  Mrs.  Frcmiolli. 


'Classified' 

NKKI)  \m  TYPIN<;  l)()NK?  Will 
type  any  kind  ol  paper.  Call  Sherry  al 
.123-507(1.  Price  ne|;oliable. 


Intramural 

SporLs 
Schedule 

hn  lllc  mrk 

itj  Miiiiday,  Da.  5 

llnolff;li  Sumltii,  Oc(.  II 

Today 

Open  gym...-  4  lo  7  p.m. 
Tomorrow 
Basketball...  7  and  8  p.m. 

Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  9  lo  10  p.m. 

Thursday,  Dec.  8 
Ba.slM.lb.ill...  7  and  8  p.m. 
Open  L'vni...  9  lo  10  p.m. 

Soccer  cancelled  this  week 

Intramural  soccer  for  this  Wednes- 
day is  cancelled  because  of  the  KIX  con- 
cert 10  be  held  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

Intramural  soccer  will  be 
rescheduled  at  6:.tO  lo  8  p.m.,  next 
Wednesday,  Dec.  14,  in  Ihe  Bardo 
(iyni,  said  Mis.  Freniiolti. 


Church  of  the  Annunciation 

410  WALNUT  STREET 
WILLIAMSPORT,  PENNSYLVANIA    17701 


Mass  Schedule: 

Saturday~4  and  5:30  p. 

Sunday-7;30,  9,  10:15, 
and  11:30  a.m 


Sunday  Folk  Mass 

at 

5  p.m. 


If  inleresled  in  joinlni;  Ihc  Folk  Group, 
conlaci  Father  Ko/en  al  323-9456. 


Alley  Cats  howled  ilic  high  Icani 
single  in  the  iniraiiiiiral  bouliiig  leaiiuc 
held  al  ABC  Bowling  lanes,  1245  Park 
A\e..  according  lo  records  provided  by 
I  aiies'  innnaeenicMl. 

Alley  Clfts  nilled  an  856  ii>  <inibo«l 
Briar  House  and  l-linisioiics. 

The  intramural  bowling  results 
from  Nov.  29  arc: 

Team  slandiugs 
leam  Wins  Losses 

1.  Briar  H<Mise  20         7 

2.  Alley  Cais  18        9 

3.  Meial  Men  15        12 

4.  Dcstroycis  \'S        14 

5.  Bull  Spiiineis  12        15 

6.  Minlsloiies  1!         16 

7.  Dew  Crew  10        17 

8.  Millon  9  18 

Men's  high  single  game 
Franklin     J.     Scbei,     elcclncal 

Icdinology  siudcnl  from  Scranton,  222. 
Myles    S.    Murray,    coiiMruclion 

carpcniiy  student  from  Rrie,  196. 
Fdward    E.    Bcrkebile,    plumbing 

iiiid   healing  student   from  .Slovsiown, 

195. 

Women's  high  single  game 
Denisc  M.  King,  sccieiaiial  science 

sukIciiI  from  Cogan  Siaiion,  157. 
l.inda  .S.  .Sh'Mip,  business  niaiuigc- 


inciil  siiidcui  lioin  l;Ksbiiie,  155. 

Linda  Sahani,   sareiarial   science 
siudciil  fioni  Willianisjioii,  154. 
Men's  high  series 
.Scber  bowled  a  624. 
Mnriay,  561. 

Randy    I .    Biiggs,   elcciiical   ion- 
sirucHi'ii  MiulcMi  form  Duncannon.  520. 
Women's  high  series 
Saham  bowled  a  413. 
King.  4112. 
Slioup,  386. 

High  leam  single 
Allcv  Cais.  856. 
Biiar  Hcnisc,  842. 
l-1iinsi,.Mcs.  812. 

High  leam  series 
Briar  Hcnisc,  2463. 
Allcv  Cais,  2389. 
Bull  Spinners,  2346. 

High  averages 
The  five  persons  with  the  highest 
averages  are  Scber,  213r  Troy  (1. 
Kreidcr,  construction  building 
ledmology  siudenl  fmni  Williamspcni,  - 
174;  Kills  D.  Zohn,  air  condiiion- 
ing/rcfrigciaiion  sliidcnl  fiom 
Frcdciicksbiirg,  166;  Banv  F.  YikIci, 
conipiiicr  science  siinlcm  hoin  Dcwail, 
and  Donald  H.  Pell  Ji.,  plinnbimj  and 
healing  sindcnl  fi<im  lykens,.  164. 


Wildcats  drop  two  in  tournament 


The  W'ildcals  men's  basketball 
team  lost  iwo  games  in  Ihc  Bucks  Coun- 
ty Community  College  Tip-Off  Tourna- 
ment on  Monday,  Nov.  21  and  Tues- 
dax,  Nov.  21  al  Bucks  County  Com- 
munity College,  according  lo  Louis  J. 
Menago,  Wildcat  coach. 

The  team  lost  lo  Bucks  Counly 
Commmunily  College,  104-44,  and  lo 
Cuyahoga  from  Cleveland,  Ohio, 
124-56,  said  Menago. 

Johnstm  leads 

In  the  game  against  Bucks  Counly 
Community  College,  the  team  was  led  in 
a  losing  cause  by  Daniel  J.  Johnson, 
general  sludies  student  from  Millon, 
who  scored  13  points. 

Jon  A.  Ehly,  food  and  hospilalily 
managemcnl  siudenl  from  EasI  Berlin, 
scored  nine  poinis  and  James  A.  Beally, 
air  conditioning/refrigeration  siudenl 
from  Warren,  scored  six  poinis. 
'Fantaslic  nlghl' 

"Buller  had  a  fanlaslic  night.  They 
shot  80  perceni  from  Ihc  field  and  Ihat 
is  not  counting  layups.  They  shot  12  om 
of  15  field  goals  in  one  particular  half," 
said  Menago.  He  added,  "They  were 
wcll-coaclicd.  They  oulshincd  us." 

In  Ihc  game  against  Cuyahoga,  five 
team  members  scored  in  double  figures. 
The  Wildcats  who  scored  in  double 
figures  were  Ehly,  17  points;  Johnson, 
11  poinis;  Richard  A.  Sullon,  conslruc- 
lion  carpentry  student  from  Towanda, 
10  poinis;  Thomas  J.  Prowani,  business 
managemcnl  siudenl  from  New  Colum- 
bia, 10  poinis,  and  Michael  F.  Turpack, 
general  sludies  siudenl  form  Millon,  10 
poinis,  Menago  said. 

Hope  lo  gel  bcller 

"They  (Cuyahoga)  were  full-court 
pressing  until  the  last  minute  of  the 
game,"  said  Menago.  He  added,  "We 
liojic  10  have  a  beller  showing  Monday 


niglu." 

Other  team  members  contributing 
points  lo  the  leam  in  the  first  game  in- 
clude Timothy  A.  Rodgcrs,  broad- 
casting .student  form  Boycrlown; 
Richard  C.  Mover,  welding  student 
from  South  Fork,  and  Tyrone  L. 
Guthrie,  graphic  arls  student  from 
Macunglc. 

Civil  Engineers 
Technicians  Club 
plans  trip 

The  Civil  Engineers  Technicians 
Club  is  planning  a  trip  to  a  bridge  con- 
struction site  early  next  semester. 

The  club  plans  a  few  Irips  or 
seminars  during  the  academic  year  to 
enable  club  members  lo  get  an  idea  of 
vvhal  type  of  work  they  will  perform  in 
Ihcir  profession. 

Current  officers  are  Vicloria  E. 
Prcslash,  of  Phillipsburg,  president; 
David  M.  Serra,  of  Berwick,  vice  presi- 
dent; Arlcen  A.  Button,  of  Mansfield, 
secretary;  and  Greg  A.  Caldwell,  of 
Curwensvillc,  treasurer.  The  four  of- 
ficers are  civil  engineering  students. 

Students  cater  event 

First  and  sccimd-ycar  catering 
Sludenls  will  cater  an  event  spon.sored 
by  Ihe  Women's  Forum  and  lillc* 
"Conlinenlal  Gourmcl  on  a 
Shoestring"  on  Wednesday  in  Room 
105  of  Ihc  Academic  Center,  according 
to  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  coordinator  of 
food  and  hospitality  laboratories. 

The  sludenls  will  show  the  Forum 
members  how  to  prepare  turkey 
lelro/inni,  vegetable  saulc,  cranberry 
sorbet,  and  crepes  Normandy  fiambc. 


Holiday  contest  decorating  rules 

As  jmniilal  hv  aioiiliiialdr  iif  iiiliaiiiiiial  wlilciifs  and  Cnllexe  acliviiics 

1.  Anyone  warning  lo  cnlcr  Ihc  conlcsl  niusi  inl'nrin  Sisnia  Pi  oincua  (soroiiiv) 
t.\i.  369  (ir  269.  -  .  .  . 

2.  Conicsi  open  ici  siudcnis  and  facully/slalT. 

_  3.  The  College  reserves  llic  riuhl  lo  remove  anvlhing  ilial  is  noi  approved  liv  ilie 
fire  marsliail. 

4.  All  deeoraiioiis  must  meet  llie  tire  niarsliall's  apprmal  li>r  lire  '.alciy.  hsani- 
ple:  Crepe  paper  nnisi  be  lire  rcsislani. 

5.  The  College  will  nol  be  responsible  lor  iheli  or  damage. 

6.  No  candles  and  no  angel  hair. 

7.  l.ighls  used  mnsi  be  U.L.  approved. 

8.  No  deeoraling  on  llic  TVs  or  nmniiors. 

9.  huh  ehib  will  be  responsible  for  setnrily  and  salely  ol  eqnipnienl  used. 

10.  KIctlrieal  curds  sirnng  acro.ss  corridors  niusi  be  laped  lo  ilie  llnor  wiih  a 
sirong  durable  lape  ihal  will  lake  llic  irariic. 

11.  No  deeoraling  over  eleclrical  rcccpladcs,  healine  duels,  cold  air  rdurns 
ilicimoslals  or  covering  of  eleclrical  cords  wilh  paper.  ' 

12.  Doors  and  evils  arc  nol  lo  be  blocked.  Doors  miisi  move  lieclv  ildec(Maied 
I.V  Swinging  doors  may  nol  be  decoralcd. 

14.  If  irccs  or  any  evergreens  arc  used,  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frennolli,  coordinalor  ol 
inlramural  alhlclics  and  College  acliviiics,  musi  be  informed  so  ilial  arrangeinenis 
may  be  made  lo  spray  Ilie  greens  wilh  a  fire  rcsislani  chemical.  This  musi  be  done 
before  deeoraling. 

15.  Trees  musi  be  kcpl  moisl  and  may  use  prcscrvalive;  if  ilie  liee  dries,  ii  musi 
be  removed  even  if  before  judging. 

16.  Decorations  in  hallways  musi  be  approved  by  Ihe  division  direclor  in  lliai 
respcclive  area. 

17.  All  areas  lo  be  decoraled  niusl  be  approved  bv  Ihe  coordinalor  of  inlramural 
alhlclics  and  College  acliviiics. 

18.  Oiildoor  dcKnalions  inusi  be  apjiroved  and  reser\ed  bv  Crcneral  Services 
slall.    Please  noiify  ihe  coordinaloi  of  inlraniural  alhlclics  and  College  acliviiics. 

19.  Each   club   is   responsible   for  cleaning   up  and   removinc  decorali<nis. 
hvergreens  and/or  irees  musi  be  pul  in  sleel  hoppers  ilial  are  oulside  each  building 

20.  All  decoralions  musi  be  laken  down  by  |Kridav|  Dec.  16,  I98.V 

21.  All  dccmaling  musi  be  complelcd  by  4  p.m.  on  jTiicsdayl  Dec.  13.  .Iiidciu" 
will  lake  place  on  |Wcdncsday|  Dec.  14.  '  ■  ■     -    = 


All  arcus  lo  he  ileoimled  iiiilsl  be  revietml  by  Sigma  Pi  Omega  Isnnmiv) 
before  iippivved  bv  inlramural  allileiies  ami  College  aciiviiies.  Siibmil  miir  ideas 
lo  Room  109.  Aeademie  Ceiiler.  or  Room  108,  Gvmmniiim. 


SPOri.KiHT    MiiiKtai.  I)n.  5.  1983 


ACROSS 
1  Footless 
5  Evil 

8  Gunman's 
girlfriend 

12  Young 
salmon 

13  Falsehood 

14  Century  plant 

15  Small  island 

16  Viper 

17  Roster 

18  Takes 
unlawfully 

20  Apportions 

22  Encountered 

23  Female  ruff 

24  Crucial  time 
27  Gossip 

31  Pronoun 

32  Above;  poet, 

33  Sent  forth 
37  Reply 

40  African 
antelope 

41  Small  child 

42  Commemo- 
rative march 

45  Threefold 

49  island  oft 
Ireland 

50  Born 

52  Crucifix 

53  Rip  up 

54  Negative 
prefix 

55  Mediter- 
ranean island 

56  A  continent 

57  Addition 
word 

58  Stalk 

DOWN 

1  Egyptian 
sacred  bull 

2  Time  gone  by 

3  Heraldic 


bearing 

4  Visions 

5  Explosions 

6  Three-toed 
sloths 

8  Wooden 
hammer 

9  Mixture 

10  Misplaced 

1 1  Permits 
19  Hawaiian 

wreath 
21  Meadow 

24  Greek  tetter 

25  Legal  matter 

26  Federal 
agency 

28  Pull 

29  Confederate 
general 

30  Transgress 

34  Country  of 

35  Goal 


Puzzle  Answer 

1 T.SSTMlETONi 

!»  t  T  1   E  r||p  n  ,   z  e" 

0  N  0  N  1   0   fl    i    0   N  1    E  t; 

n A p|»D , ts|Td| 

0   N  1    A    L    ,     N    E  1  S    ,     L  T^ 

STORI     NG|VASE1 

||PEAG|iWELL|| 

AS    E    Ts|m    E    EK    E?5 

PA    R    E|    T    E.    RS|    ej^ 

*R   A|    T    R    EK    S|?    r| 

C    E  1  G    R    A   D    E  1  ? -[    E  1^ 

ES    T    EEMJ|s    Tfl   an| 
1    T  AM    ES^TH    ES    e| 

36  Chaperon  44  Hindu 

37  Be  present  princess 

38  Conluncllon  46  Nut's  partner 

39  Cubic  meters  47  Part  ol  ear 

42  Brazilian  48  Kind  of 
estuary  cheese 

43  War  god  51  Vast  age 


' 

2 

3 

' 

s 

13 

6 

^ 

T" 

»-- 

10 

11 

14 

1« 

" 

19 

20 

21 

2l 

2i 

29 

30 

m^m  |M|y|g 

32 

40 

41 

TF 

4JT7 

.8 

52 

54 

55 

TT 

58 

Aiisner  in  next  week's  Sl'OTLIGHT 


1.  Mo.si  unique 

2.  Old  fashioned 


Calegnrics  of  Prizes 

3.  Most  attractive 

4.  Merricsl 


SUMMER  EMPLOYMENT  OPPORTUNITIES 

...in  Glacier  National  Park,  (Vtonlana.  Some  employees  begin  work  as  early  as  IWIay  1 
and  some  remain  as  late  as  Oct.  1.  For  complele  listing  of  jobs  available,  salaries  and 
all  imporlani  details,  write  immediately  lo:  Ian  B,  Tippet,  Executive  Director  of  Person- 
nel, Glacier  National  Park  Hotels.  Glacier  Park  Inc.,  Greyhound  Tower,- Mail  Station 
No.  5185,  Phoenix,  Ariz.  85077.  ISubmtllea  6v  ihe  College  Placemen!  Ollicel 


PRIZKS 

Four  prizes  for  sludetil  enlries:  $10  gih  certincalcs  fnnn  Platikciihorirs  Sla 
lioiiery. 

Four  prizes  for  slalT  entries:  Fruil  baskets  fr.nii  Riiiella's  Wholesale  Fruit 
Ptoduce. 

One  prize  for  the  overall  winner  (staff  or  student):  Quart/  Calendar  from  Wes 
Fieedtnan's. 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

25  W.  Church  Si,      Wllliamspi.rl 

(In  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building) 
i=5(Behind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)=i 


8i   SPOTLIGHT    M.inday.  Dec.  5,  1983 

PBL  plans  annual 
Christmas  banquet 

Tlic  annual  Phi  Bcia  Lambda 
(PBL)  Chrislmas  dinner  and  dantc  will 
be  held  Ihis  Thursday,  acccording  lo 
Paul  W.  Goldfcdcr,  assislani  professor 
of  business  adniinislralion  and  PBL  ad- 
viser. 

The  Chrislma.s  banquci  will  lake 
place  al  Ihc  main  'ballroom  of  llic 
Willianisporl  Shcralon. 

Social  hour  will  slarl  al  6  p.m.  and 
dinner  will  be  served  al  7:15  p.m.  Music 
will  be  provided  by  a  disc  jockey,  .said 
Goldfcder. 

Special  guesls  include  Dr.  Donald 
B.  Bcrgcrslock,  dircclor  of  Business  and 
Compuler  Science  Division,  and  his 
wife;  Thomas  C.  Leilzcl,  acling  dircclor 
of  Ihe  same  division  and  his  wife;  Miss 
Palricia  J.  Shoff,  assislani  professor  of 
business;  Miss  Valerie  J.  Haydock, 
coordinalor  of  Individualized  Learning 
Ccnier  for  lypewriling  and  word  pro- 
cessing as  well  as  Goldfcdcr  and  his 
wife.  Several  olher  alumni  members  will 
also  aliend. 

Commillce  members  for  Ihc  eveni 
arc  Dorec  M.  Snyder,  a  compuler 
science  .sludenl  from  Monloursvillc, 
chairperson;  John  D.  Boycc,  compuler 
science  sludenl  from  Roaring  Branch; 
Lisa  M.  Wilcox,  compuler  science  slu- 
denl from  Canlon;  Elizabelh  A.  Zerby, 
business  science  sludenl  from  Avis,  and 
Tina  E.  PousI,  business  managemeiil 
sludenl  from  Hughcsville. 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

Fur  llw  wct'k  of  Miimliiv,  Dec.  5  lliniii^fi  Smitu\\  Oct.  11 
ACTIVITIKS 
"Tlie  Sling". .J:iO  lonighl.  Academic  Ccnicr  Audilorium  (ACQ,  Free  wilh  ID. 
"KIM"  ciiiicerl...%  p.m.  Wednesday,  Bardo  Gym.  Tickels  S5  al  Ihe  door. 
New  York  Cily  has  W/)... leaves  ihe  Learning  Resources  Ceiuer  (IRC)  al  6  a.m.; 
deparls  NYC  ai  9  p.m. 

MEKTINGS 
Women's  h'liniiii ...nimn,  Wedncsdav,  Room  lO.V  Academic  Cciiicr  Audilorium 
(ACC). 

Ribbon  cutting  ceremony 
for  MAC  teller  to  be  held 


There  will  be  a  ribbon-culling 
ceremony  in  Ihc  faculty  parking  lol  ad- 
jacenl  lo  Ihc  Academic  Ccnicr  al  noon 
Thursday.  Dr.  Roberl  L.  Brcuder,  Col- 
lege prcsideni,  and  William  D.  Davis, 
Commonwcallh  Bank  prcsideni,  will  of- 
ficialc  al  ihe  evcnl  which  will  be  held  for 
ihc  opening  of  ihc  College's  new  MAC 
machine  which  was  inslallcd  by  Ihe 
bank,  according  lo  Susan  B.  IxBoiirdis, 
markeiing  officer  al  Ihc  local  brancli  of- 
fice. 

The  MAC  (Money  Access  Ccnicr) 
is  a  24-hour  aulomaled  idler. 

There  will  be  a  Iwo-hour  rcccplion 
in  Room  105,  Academic  Ccnicr.  Il  will 
be  calcred  by  second-year  calcring  cla.ss 
sliidcnis.  A  hoi  and  cold  lunch  bul'fcl 
will  be  served,  according  lo  Mrs.  Ann 
R.  Miglio,  coordinalor  of  food  and 
hospilalily  laboralorics. 

Siudcnls,  facully,  and  slaff  arc  be- 
iiip  invilcd  lo  Ihc  ceremony  and  Ihe 
rcccplion  where  dcmonslralions  of  ihe 


Idler  will  be  given,  she  said. 

"Prizes  will  be  dislribulcd  al  ran- 
dom lo  anybody  laking  a  dcmonslralion 
of  Ihe  machine,"  added  Mrs.  LcBour- 
dis. 

Last  weelc  to  get 
new  student  ID 

This  is  Ihc  lasl  week  for  sludenls  lo 
obiain  pholo  idcnlificalion  cards,  accor- 
ding lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinalor of  iiilramural  alhlclics  and  Col- 
lege aclivilics. 

The  .schedule  is:  8  a.m.  lo  9  a.m. 
and  II  a.m.  lo  1  p.m.  loday  Ihrough 
Thursday  in  Ihe  Academic  Ccnicr 
Lounge. 

The  cards  will  be  a  permancnl  form 
of  sludenl  ID.  Sludenls  will  be  charncd 
$10  if  Ihcy  lose  Ihe  card. 

ID  cards  will  be  validalcd  each 
scmcsicr,  slariing  .lannary  1984. 


City  bookstore 
owner  to  give 
midweek  lecture 

Olio  Book  Slorc  co-owner,  Bcl.sy 
Rider  will  prcscni  a  Icc4urc  about 
children's  books  al  5:,'0  p.m.  ihis 
Wednesday  in  Room  105.  Academic 
Ccnier,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
l-rcmiolli,  coordinalor  of  inlramiiral 
alhlclics  and  College  aclivilics. 

Ms.  Rider's  Icciure,  sponsored  by 
Ihe  Women's  Foium,  is  designed  lo  help 
parcnis  "dircci  Ihcir  Ihinking"  loward 
books  lo  buy  for  children,  how 
messages  arc  conveyed  Ihrough 
children's  books,  and  sexism  which  is 
oflen  prcscnicd  in  books,  according  lo 
Mis.  Fremiolli. 

Books  will  be  available  lor  paienls 
10  view.  Tol  Waich  faciliiics  will  be 
available  during  Ihc  Icciure. 

Return  books  soon 

Any  siudcnls  who  have  over- 
due library  books  al  Ihc  end  of  Ihc 
scmcsicr   will   have   Ihcir   grades   5 
held,    according    lo    Mrs.    Kale    j- 
Hickey,  reference  librarian. 

"Sludenls  should  check  Ihe    :; 
library  books  Ihcy'vc  borrowed  lo 
be  sure  Ihcy're  nol  overdue,"  .said 
Mrs.  Hickey.  "All  library  books 
should  be  relumed  lo  Ihc  Learning   | 
Resources  Cenlcr  by  Monday  Dec.  K 
19."  1 


Spotlight 


Monday.  Dec.  12,  1983    •    Veil.  19.  ^".  16    •    12  Pates 
Williamspdrl  Area  tiimmunilv  CiilltBt    *    WilliamNpcirl,  Pa.  17701 


•S.bjB.b^.bA^A-C)«^C>/9.^AO«.C>Ae>.O.biB'C>A.^,«».b^.b^.1bj».l 


ijm  ^.dl  *><M  ff^  '^Jg  '^i^  CS^^O^g-ft^B  OAt>.a  C>.^C.^B^Od»-0^fcP^-ft<»-C^»^*»^^^ 


2, jsponiGHTI  lM,.nd.».  Dec.  1 2.  miff)  fff  :f[,  Iff,  iff  0  0  0  0  Iff  Iff)  Iffi  0  1!^  i![>  0  IIP  ilfl  1!fl  Iff  1![l  0  €>  €>  0  <<!(>  ^  ^  0  0  <f^ 

What  happened  to 
Christmas? 


...  in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Where  has  Christmas  gone'  The  American  people  have  stood 
Christmas  against  a  wall  and  executed  it  But  from  its  grave,  a  ghost  has 
arisen 

This  new  Christmas  is  much  different  than  the  one  we  l<new  long  ago. 
fvlost  of  the  things  that,  to  us.  meant  Christmas  ate  gone  A  little  change 
here  and  a  little  change  there  have  made  Christmas  a  ghost  of  its  former 
self 

A  very  noticeable  change  has  taken  place  in  the  tree.  As  we 
remember,  trees  were  green  and  had  a  scent  Tree  ornaments  were  bright, 
not  gaudy    Lights  were  few  and  plain 

But  manufacturers  told  us  we  must  always  be  new  and  unique  It  now 
is  out  of  style  to  have  a  green  tree  One  must  have  a  purple,  pink  or  blue 
one  lilusic  might  enhance  the  tree  from  a  hidden  music  box  Ornaments 
are  no  longer  simple  They  now  are  hideous  sizes  and  shapes,  gaudy  colors 
that  signify  nothing.  Lights  might  bubble,  flash,  blink  or  do  a  million  other 
things 

The  Christmas  tree  now  is  an  over  glorified  monstrosity  that  smells  like 
machine  oil. 

Christmas  songs  have  also  changed.  II  seems  no  one  was  satisified 
with  "Silent  Night".  We  now  have  trash  such  as  "I  saw  lyiommy  Kissing  San- 


#  THE  SPOTLIGHT 


and  its  staff  and  managemeni 
would  like  to  wish  everyone, 
ttiis  holiday  season. 


^ 


la  Claus "  The  modern  song  writer  is  succeeding  in  his  attempts  to  make  a 
farce  out  of  Christmas  songs 

Poor  old  Santa  has  really  been  through  the  ringer  He  is  no  longer  the 
kindly  old  gentleman  who  puts  candy  in  children's  stockings  He  now  is  the 
man  in  the  nylon  acetate  beard  and  the  red  satin  costume  who  tells  children 
to  buy  such  and  such  from  different  stores  He  now  is  the  man  who  comes 
riding  into  town  on  Thanksgiving  Day  surrounded  by  25  Hollywood  models 
in  skimpy  costumes    Like  everything  else.  Santa  has  gone  commercial 

fvlerry  Christmas,  everybody;  Peace  on  Earth,  goodwill  toward  men, 
and  see  whose  house  decorations  can  be  the  gaudiest'  fvlr  Smith  is  full  of 
Christmas  spirit  His  house  has  300  strings  of  light  bulbs  spelling  out  the  first 
verse  of  "Jingle  Bells"  It  looks  as  if  no  one  will  have  a  while  Christmas,  ex- 
cept Mr  Jones,  who  sprays  the  whole  front  lawn  with  50  gallons  of  artificial 
snow 

That  is  Christmas  of  today  -  a  mere  ghost  of  the  Christmas  we  used  to 
know  All  the  feelings  are  gone  Worst  of  all,  the  feelings  of  Christmas  is 
like  the  feeling  of  any  holiday  when  no  one  works  Christmas  is  over.  It  died 
when  the  true  meaning  of  Christmas  was  all  but  forgotten,  when  Rudolph, 
the  red-nose  reindeer  look  the  place  of  Dasher,  when  mommy  kissed  Santa 
Claus,  when  a  singer  in  a  sexy  dress  sang  "Silent  Night",  with  a  glycerin  tear 
in  her  eye 

Climax  of  Pet  Sematary 


comes  and  goes 


A  very 
MERRY  CHRISTMAS, 
and  a 
J    HAPPY  NEW  YEAR!! 

10  000000000000  0)^^  0  00  0  0 

TO: 

Father  Christmas 

North  Pole 
Dear  Santa: 

Christmas  is  coming  and  Hie  goose/duck/iurkey  is  gelling  panicky  I 
have  made  a  lisi  of  items  I  would  very  much  like  to  have  Could  you  see  ii  in 
your  heart  to  deliver  ihem? 

For  slarlers,  I  would  like  a  copy  of  the  new  Rolling  Stones  LP,  "Under- 
cover" They'll  never  be  the  band  ihey  were  in  ihemid-60s  bul  ilielitle  irack 
and  "She  Was  Hoi"  aie  snme  of  itieir  best  rhyihm  and  blues  in  many  a  year 

Could  you  send  me  riew  copies  of  the  following  LPs'' 

"The  Yardbirds  Greatest  Hiis".  tlie  Sieve  Millei  Band's  "Fly  Like  an 
Eagle",  "London  Calling",  by  Ihe  Clash,  and  "Changes  One"  by  David 
Bowie    fvly  old  copies  are  worn  out  from  cnnsiani  playirig 

I'd  also  like  Bob  Dylan's  new  album.  "Infidels"  I  could  use  the  plastic 
disc  to  clear  away  Ihe  snow  and  slush  which  will  soon  accululale  in  my 
driveway    In  the  summer,  I  can  clean  up  after  the  dog  with  it. 

While  you're  ai  n.  Sania.  how  aboui  giving  fund  lo  the  liunqiy.  healih  lo 
Ihe  sick,  and  freedom  to  ihe  oppressed''  I  know  you  are  Hie  only  persi^n 
who  could  do  this  and  many  would  probably  appreciaie  thai  ChnsHiias  Day 
gift. 

Yours  sincp'oly. 
Jim  Mi'riissey 

P  S    Don'l  lei  Ihe  reindeer  fly  loo  close  lo  Soviet  airspace 

SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  eveiy  Mon- 
„„,  morhihg  ol  Ihe  academic  yeai  by  (oumalism 
and  oliief  inteiesled  siudenis  ai  ihe  Wllliamspuci 
Area  Communily  College.  1005  W  Third  SI . 
Williamspon.  Pa  17701  Telephone  (717) 
326-3761.  EkI   221 

:  opinions  expiessed  are  ihose  of  the 
sludenl  newspaper,  ol  individual  wrtlers  or  ol  in- 
dividuals iniervievwed  and  do  nol  reileci  ihe  opi- 


comments  Kathy  A.  Meixel 

Stephen  King's  much  awaited 
new  book.  Pel  Semaiary.  leaves  Hie 
reader  wishing  he  had  waned  to  read 
ii  The  siory  is  one  dealing  wiih  ihe 
supernatural 

Louis  Creed  is  Ihe  main 
characier  lo  whom  the  secret  of  Hie 
cemeiery  is  revealed  The  cemeiery 
has  Ihe  power  to  bring  back  Ihe 
dead  It's  wonderful,  excepi  for  the 
lad  Ihe  cemeiery  also  changes  the 
personality  of  Ihe  ob)ecl.  animal  or 
human 

The  basic  scare  tactics  are  used 
-  but  rather  unsuccessfully  in  this 


case 

The  major  climax  of  the  book 
comes  and  goes  before  one  realizes 
Ii  was  even  there  The  reader 
receives  ihe  impressiorvihai  Kirig  goi 
iired  of  wriiing  in  Ihe  middle  of  the 
book  and  decided  lo  finish  Hie  book 
in  a  hurry 

The  book  has  real  possibiliiies, 
but  the  action  needs  to  be  carried  out 
further 

This  fan  decided  thai  waning  lor 
the  book  was  more  exciiirig  ihan 
reading  il 


Doors  make  an  'experience' 


Mary  t..  Pease 


Mana 


1  Edili 


Annette  M.  Engel 

Eaiiniial  Paqe  Edilor 

Ttiomas  H.  Long 

Adveilising  Direclor 

Perry  D.  Peniz 

Sporls  Edilor 

Lori  M.  Lane 

Phulography  Edilor 

Barbl  L.  Chilean 

Assislanl  Phologiaohy  Edili 


...says  Tracey  S.  Willette 

One  afternoon,  I  was  sitting 
around  Ihe  house,  bored  silly,  when 
my  eyes  happened  to  spy  the  new 
Doors  album  I  had  bought  my 
boyfriend  for  Christmas 

(uly  mind  cried.  "Play  it.  play 
if'But  I  really  couldn't  because  it 
was  a  Christmas  present 

Oh,  well,  I've  always  been  a 
slave  lo  my  passions  I  listened  lo  it 
Being  an  avid  Doors  fan,  I  was  ex- 
pecting something  taniastic 

I  wasn't  disappointed 

The  Doors  .  comprised  of  Jim 
Ivlorrison,  Robby  Krieger.  Ray  IVIan- 
zarek,  and  John  Densmore.  have 
done  il  again  They  have  taken  a  live 
album  and  turned  it  Into  an  ex- 
perience      "Alive.    She   Cried"    is 


Thomas  F.  Montgomery 

Dislilbulion/PfvlT  rvlanaqer 

Gregory  W.  Hull 

Feaiures  Edilur 

Joan  L.  Thompson 

Adminislralive  Allans  Ediloi 

Kay  M.  Frace 


perhaps  one  of  Iheir  best  albums  It 
conlains  everything  for  the  Doors 
fan  From  the  familiar  lyrics  of  "Love 
Ivie  Two  Times"  to  Ihe  throbbing 
semi-pornographic  words  of 
"Gloria  ".  the  record  is  pure  gold 

The  album  has  also  created  an 
extended  version  of  Ihe  popular 
"Light  lyly  Fire",  which  has  almost 
become  the  theme  song  of  the  group 
"Gloria""  and  "Little  Red  Roosler'"  are 
Ihe  two  new  releases  on  Ihe  album 

Although  this  album  has  been 
released  10  years  after  the  death  of 
Ihe  group"s  lead  singer,  Ihe  passion 
and  fury  that  Jim  Ivlorrison  created 
has  nol  been  lost  in  time  This  record 
IS  well  worth  Ihe  money,  whether 
you're  a  Doors  fan  or  not  As  for  my 
boyfriend,  I'll  buy  him  a  sweater 


and.     Kalhy 


Mei> 


Seni 


I  Wrili 


Roberl  W  Minier.  James  K  Ivlorrissey 
Gary  A  Niciiois.  Josepn  P  Povleski 
Tracey  S  Willeiie.  Richard  E  Kopp 
tvlarcy  L  Card,  tuturray  J  Hai 
and  Kalhy  R  Foreman 
Anthony  N.  Ciilo,  taculiy  adviser 


Production  Team  This  Issue:  Annelle  M  Engel,  copy  edilor:  Perry  D  Penlz,  videocomposiiion; 
Mary  L  Pease,  produciion  supervisor,  Kalhy  A  Meixel,  James  K  Morrissey,  Joseph  P  Povleski,  and 
Tracey  S  Willelle  produciion  assislanls 


B^«.(»«0«-». 


Validation  stickers 
for  student  IDs 
needed  in  January 

Validation  slickers  for  Ihc  new 
sludeiK  indciUificalion  cards  will  be 
issued  in  January  lo  all  new,  full-lime, 
and  parl-lime  sludenls,  according  lo 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor 
of  inlraniural  alhlclics  and  College  ac- 
livilies. 

Sludenls  musl  keep  their  ID  card 
throughout  Ihe  holidays  and  summer 
vacation,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli.  They 
will  then  receive  a  new  validation 
sticker  each  semester,  she  added. 

Any  student  who  has  not  received 
Ihe  new  ID  card  may  see  Mrs. 
Fremiolli  in  the  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities  office,  first 
floor,  Bardo  Gym. 

There  has  been  a  "very  posilive 
altitude"  toward  the  new  IDs,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Grades  held 
for  unpaid  fines 

Any  sludenls  who  have  overdue 
library  books  or  unpaid  fines  at  the 
end  of  Ihe  semester  will  have  their 
grades  held,  according  lo  Mrs.  Kate 
Hickey,  reference  librarian. 

"So  many  students  forget  lo  pay 
their  fines  and  parking  tickets...  and 
are  surprised  when  they  don't  receive 
their  grades  at  the  end  of  the 
semester,"  commented  Mrs.  Hickey. 

"Students  should  also  check  the 
library  books  they've  borrowed  to  be 
sure  they're  not  overdue,"  sSid 
Hickey.  "All  library  books  should  be 
returned  to  the  Learning  Resources 
Center  by  Monday,  Dec.  19." 

Certified  chef-instructor 
presents  demonstration 

A  certified  chef,  Frank  P.  Leach, 
who  also  is  an  instructor  of  air  condi- 
tioning and  refrigeration,  presented  a 
demonstration  at  8  p.m.  last  Monday 
in  Room  105,  Academic  Center  for 
the  spouses  of  the  College  Board  of 
Trustees,  according  lo  Ms.  Sandra  L. 
Roscnberger,  coordinator  of  com- 
munity based  programs.  Lifelong 
Education  Center. 


HI     Mi.nclav.  I)«.  12,  19W    3 

Over  1,000  attend  Kix  concert  last  Wednesday 


By  Kav  M.  Frace 
SPOTLIGHT  Senior  Staff  Writer 

Over  1,(XK)  pcrsims  attended  ihc 
Kix  concert  last  Wednesday  night. 

Kix  was  formed  about  four  years 
ago  in  Hagerstown,  Md.  The  group 
was  previously  called  the  Shoes  and 
Generators,  but  had  to  change  the 
name  because  both  names  were 
already  being  used  by  other  bands. 

Members  of  Ihe  group  arc  Steve 
Whilcman,  lead  vocals;  Donnic 
Purnell,  bass  guitar;  Brian  Forsylhc, 
guilars;  Ronnie  Younkins,  guitars, 
and  Jimmy  Chalfant,  drums. 

Kix  has  played  as  warm-up  band 
for  such  big  names  as  Aerosmilh, 
Cheap  Trick,  Ted  Nugent,  Triumph, 
Kinks,  Def  Leppard,  and  ZZ  Top. 
They've  also  played  at  such  places  as 
the  Spectrum  in  Philadelphia  and  the 
Capital  Center  in  Largo. 

Some  of  the  bands  which  have  in- 
fiuenced  Kix  in  their  music  are  Grand 
Funk,  Rolling  Stones,  Kinks,  and 
Aerosmilh,  according  lo  Whiteman, 
who  is  the  lead  singer  of  the  band. 

"Singing  is  a  full-time  job  and 
the  only  thing  we've  ever  done  for  a 
living,"  said  Purnell. 

Students  reminded 
to  pay  obligations 

Students  owing  financial  obliga- 
tions lo  Ihe  scho!  should  remember  lo 
pay  them  as  soon  as  possible,  accor- 
ding lo  Donald  S.  Shade,  director  of 
financial  aid. 

These  obligalions  ~  such  as  tui- 
tion payments,  short-term  loans, 
overdue  books,  library  fines,  and 
parking  tickets  -  are  very  imporlant, 
he  said.  If  they  are  not  met,  hold  will 
be  placed  on  all  College  records  at  Ihe 
end  of  Ihe  semester.  These  holds  will 
not  be  released  until  ihe  obligation 
has  been  met.  Shade  said. 

"These  obligalions  do  not  go 
away,"  he  commented.  Ifat  any  time 
transcripts  are  needed  by  these 
students  who  have  nol  yet  met  their 
obligalions,  Iranscripls  will  not  be 
senij  Shade  added. 

"If  you  lake  care  of  ihese  obliga- 
lions now,  future  problems  will  be 
avoided,"  Shade  said. 


College  awarded  $2,069  grant 
for  cooperative  education 


The  College  has  been  awarded  a 
grant  from  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Education  under  the  Supplemental 
Funds  Program  for  Cooperative 
Education,  according  to  William  C. 
Bradshaw,  director  of  experimental 
learning. 

The  grant,  in  Ihe  amount  of 
$2,069,  will  be  used  primarily  to 
establish  a  Cooperative  Education 
Program  at  Ihe  North  Campus.  In- 
itial plans  call  for  the  naming  of  a 
parl-lime  co-op  coordinalor  for  Ihe 
campus  prior  to  Ihe  beginning  of  the 
Spring  1984  Semester  and  the  placing 


of  up  10  15  co-op  students  by  mid- 
summer. 

According  to  Bradshaw,  132 
employers  in  the  North  Campus  area 
were  surveyed  during  July  and 
August.  Many  of  them  expressed  a 
keen  inleresi  in  the  development  of  a 
co-op  program. 

Bradshaw  said  that  because  of 
this  employer  inleresi.  Dr.  Calhryn 
Addy,  director  of  the  North  Campus, 
and  he  had  originally  hoped  to  initiate 
Ihe  co-op  program  in  Ihe  fall  of  1984. 
The  awarding  of  the  grant  allows  for 
the  program's  beginning  eight  months 
earlier,  Bradshaw  said. 


INTERVIEWING  MEMBERS  of  KIX  is  Kay  M.  Frace  of  Ihe  SPOTLIGHT 

staff.    (SPOTLIGHT  phoKi  by  Barbi  L.  Cliilson) 


replied,  "Hopefully,  lo  keep  growing 
as  we  have  from  the  beginning." 

Kix's  nexl  album  will  be  out  this 
spring,  said  Purnell.  He  also  said  that 
they  had  a  really  "cool"  lime  playing 
al  Ihe  College. 


Two  months  ago,  Kix  started  a 
fan  club  out  of  Harrisburg.  The  ad- 
dress is  P.O.  Box  1012,  Federal 
Square  Station,  Harrisburg,  Pa. 
17108. 

Asked  what  group  members  think 
is  in  store  for  their  future,  Whiteman 

Long  range  planning 
presenting  workshops 
during  summer  months 


By  Mary  L.  Pease 
SPOTLIGHT  Managini!  Editor 

The  College's  long  range  plann- 
ing process  executives  have  been  asked 
lo  present  three  workshops  on  long 
range  planning  strategies,  according 
lo  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of  educa- 
tional research,  planning  and  evalua- 
tion. 

From  positive  evaluations  based 
on  the  Pheonix,  Ariz.,  "Strategic 
Long  Range  Planning  Academy",  and 
interest  of  other  college  ad- 
minislratiors  and  trustees,  the 
workshops  were  requested,  said 
Hurley. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  presi- 
dent; Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  planning 
committee  chairperson,  and  Hurley 
will  be  presenting  Ihe  national 
workshops  during  Ihe  summer  in  three 
of  the  four  places:  Seattle,  Wash.; 
San  Francisco,  Calif.;  Minneapolis, 
Minn.,  and  Montreal,  Ontario, 
Canada. 

Also,  two  workshops  are  ten- 
tatively planned  next  fall  in  San  An- 
lonio,  Tex.,  and  Orlando,  Fla. 

"It's  good  for  Ihe  College.  It 
gives  us  national  recognition.    We've 

Last  issue  t/iis  semester 

Today's  edilion  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT  is  Ihe  last  issue  for  Ihis 
semester. 

The  newspaper  will  resume 
publication  on  the  first  day  of  classes 
for  Ihe  Spring  1984  Semester  -  Mon- 
day, Jan.  9. 


been  asked  to  share  ideas  through  Ihe 
means  of  the  workshops.  It's  a  very 
positive  thing  for  the  College.  People 
really  want  lo  gel  involved  with  good, 
constructive  long  range  planning," 
Hurley  said. 

The  Association  for  Community 
College  Trustees  (ACCT)  will  "totally 
reimburse"  Ihe  College  for  the" 
workshop  expenses. 

"We  have  developed  institutional 
objectives,  philosophy  and  missions, 
and  we've  developed  our  goals.  These 
are  the  framework  pieces  thai  give  us 
direction." 

Hurley  added  that  this  is  "Ihe 
real  meat  of  the  plan."  He  observed, 
"That's  the  problem  with  long  range 
planning.  It  sound  good.  It  looks 
good.  Bui  until  you  try  to  implement 
it. ..you  just  don't  know." 

Students  busy  catering  parties 

Two  second-year  food  and 
hospitality  students  catered  off- 
campus  Christmas  parlies  on  Dec.  10 
and  wil  cater  one  on  Dec.  17,  accor- 
ding lo  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  coor- 
dinator of  food  and  hospitality 
laboratories. 

Leslie  E.  Ring,  from  Muiicy, 
catered  a  party  last  Saturday  and 
Caroline  J.  Reinsel,  from  Mayport, 
will  cater  a  party  this  Saturday. 

"When  people  want  parlies 
around  Christmastime,  it  makes 
ihings  really  busy  for  Ihe  food  and 
hospilalitv  students,"  Mrs.  Miglio  ad- 
ded. 


4]  ispoti,i(;ht  ^Mimdai.  i>«.  12. 1'wlft  iffiit!fii!fil!f>0i!f00i!f'<t!f'0001l(i000004lf>^ 

Whaddya'  say...  ? 

Question:  What  was  your  most  memorable  Christmas? 

Question  was  asked  al  Automotive  Technology  Center 

Interviews  by  Gary  A.  Nichols 

Photos  by  Thomas  H.  Long 
Both  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 


Michael  W  Persun.  aulo  body 
studeni  from  Williamsporl  "When  I 
received  a  molorcycle  and  a  stereo 
tor  Christmas " 


Delmont  F  Bergey,  assistant 
professor  of  automotiue  technology: 
"The  first  Christmas  I  spent  with  my 
wife  prior  to  our  marriage  " 


mechanics  student 
"The  Christmas  I 
set  of  fools  " 


Runkle,  auto 
from  Spring  fyfills: 
received  my  first 


Richard     P       Welsh,     auto  William      F       Flynn,      aulo 

technology         student         from  mechanics   student    from    Mill    Hall: 

Bloomsburg-   "When  everyone  was  "The  first  Christmas  I  spent  with  my 

home  for  Christmas  "  wife  ' 

Late  registration,  North  Campus 
enrollment  information  given 

Ctmrieay  College  Iti/onnaiitm  Office 
Kalhryn  M.  Marccllo,  rcgislrar/dircclor  of  inslilulional  research,  has  an- 
nounced thai  late  regislralion  for  credit  courses  for  the  Sprhig  Semester  will  be 
(lit  Wednesday.  Jan.  4.  Registration  will  be  held  in  the  Academic  Center  from 
y  a.m.  to  7  p.m. 

At  the  College's  North  Campus,  Dr.  Calhryn  Addy,  director,  said  per- 
.sons  interested  in  enrolling  in  a  program  there  may  do  .so  until  the  first  day  of 
the  Spring  Semester. 

There,  enrollments  will  be  accepted  on  a  space-available  basis  until  Mon- 
day, Jan.  9.  Enrollment  may  be  completed  between  8  a.m.  and  10  p.m.  Moi\- 
day  through  Friday. 
iiiiiinHnimiiiinui)in.iii)nnnnniiiinHiHntiiwi 


Douglas  D  Sirine.  auto 
technology  student  from  Hershey: 
"When  all  the  grandparents, 
relatives,  and  immediate  family  get 
together  and  no  one  argues  " 


ROCK  HOURS:  7  p.m.  until  midnight 

WWAS  and  WOOLY'S  PLACE  have  ioined  forces 
to  give  you  a  chance  lo  win  one  of  WOOLY'S 
FANTASTIC  SUBS--SO  listen  lo  WWAS  Mcjnday 
thru  Friday     To  win.  all  you  have  lo  do  is  call: 

326-1408 

Your  Commercial  Free 
Place  To  Be 


■Lists...  Lists..." 


Five  Besl  Quarterbacks 

in  Ihe  National  Frxilball  League 

as  selected  by 

James  J.  Kelly 

Ccimpuler  Science  Sludenl 

from  Williamspiirl 


1.  Dan  Fouls,  San  Diego. 

2.  Ken  Anderson,  Cincinnati. 

3.  Joe  Tlieismann,  Wasliinulon. 

4.  Joe  Montana,  .San  Francisco. 

5.  Brian  Sipe,  Cleveland. 


^^  ^ A^  fe^  tS^t  fta>.&^»-^^  b«^  ^»  ^A^  b«.C)>^  0«^  &4 


t>«eAbA.««c>»i&Ab«b«a»ttA«»c^*«^»«ke>»(x*ek«c»A«»b^t>«e^«A  SI*(>ilJ(tHT    Mnnda>,  l)fi.  12,  I98ji  l5 


Students 

to  present 

oral  briefings 


Part  of  special  approach 
in  tec/inical  writing  class 


Sludenis  of  ENL  201-01  and  ENL  201-02 
(Technical  Writing)  will  give  a  series  of  cighl  lo  10 
niinule  oral  briefings  in  ihe  Media  Cenlcr  studio  to- 
day through  Thursday,  according  to  Dr.  Richard 
M.  Sweeney,  professor  of  English  and  instructor. 

Most  of  the  oral  presentations  will  deal  with 
the  student's  particular  area  of  study  or  with  the 
student's  general  range  of  interest. 

There  will  be  a  wide  variety  of  topics.  Some  of 
Ihein  are  "Woodburning  for  Home  Heating", 
"Access  and  Maneuverability  by  Wheelchair 
Users"  and  "Home  Workshop  Equipment 
.  Modified  for  Their  Use".  Some  of  the  topics  relate 
to  the  electronics  and  computer  fiel(js. 

When  asked  the  purpose  of  the  oral  briefings. 
Dr.  Sweeney  said,  "I've  been  asking  them  to  put 
themselves  mentally  into  the  job  situation  they  arc 
preparing  for  an  into  writing  the  kind  of  reports 
they  will  be  doing  on  the  job  in  their  specialty. 
Oral  briefings  would  be  something  they  might  have 
to  do  in  their  jobs." 


There  are  27  student  speakers  scheduled  lo  give 
oral  briefings. 

Today  and  tomorrow,  there  are  six  presenta- 
tions scheduled  each  day.  The  first  begins  at  10 
a.m.  and  the  last,  at  10:40  a.m. 

On  Wednesday,  there  are  eight  presentations 
scheduled,  with  the  first  one  starling  at  12:30  and 
the  last  one  at  1:40  p.m. 

On  Friday,  there  are  seven  presenlalions 
scheduled.  The  first  is  at  12:30  p.m.  and  the  last  is 
at  1:30  p.m. 

Each  speaker  will  have  two  "tickets"  for  his  or 
her  own  invited  spectators. 

Anyone  else  interested  in-attending  any  or  all 
of  the  oral  briefings  is  being  asked  to  contact  Dr. 
Sweeney  at  College  Extension  404  or  to  contact  him 
in  Room  317,  Academic  Center.  Space  in  the 
studio  is  limited  to  24" persons  for  any  one  session. 
Dr.  Sweeney  noted. 

The  presentations  will  he  vidcotaoed  and  could 
be  seen  later  by  anyone  interested  if  the  speaker 
gives  permission.  Dr.  Sweeney  said. 


ALCOHOL  AWARENESS 

lii/iiriiiaiiim  praviM  by  Thamas  C.  SImJf,  aiiiiiseliir 
Whal  is  "under  (he  influence"? 

All  50  stales  have  laws  against  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol, 
with  various  penalities.  Most  states  base  this  m  a  person's  blood  alcohol  cim- 
tcnt  (BAC)  as  determined  by  a  breath  test,  or  direct  analysis  of  blood. 

Evidence  of  intoxication  is  .10  percent  or  more  BAC. 
Drinking  and  driving:    What's  Ihe  pritbleni? 

The  National  Safety  Council  slates  Ihcrc  arc  56,600  deaths  (ni  U.S. 
highways  each  year.  Drunk  drivers  are  a  factor  in  about  one-half  of  all 
highway  faialitics,  with  about  28,  000  deaths  per  year. 

This  is  Ihe  first  in  a  special  series 


College  develops  educational 
opportunies  program  for  unemployed 


ARTISTS  UNLIMITED 

Annual  Sale  of  Christmas  & 
All  Occasion  Card 
&  Note  Card  Sale 


12  cards  with  envelopes  $2- 


On  Sale 

In  The  Lobby  Of  The  Academic  Center 


Courtesy  College  lii/onnatioit  Office 
Eligible  unemployed  residents  of 
Ihe  sponsor  districts  of  the  Communi- 
ty College  will  benefit  from  a  program 
developed  by  the  College's  office  of 
educational  services.  The  program 
begins  next  Monday. 

"Educational  Opportunities  for 
Ihe  Unemployed"  is  directed  at 
responding  lo  the  needs  of  the 
unemployed.  According  to  Dr. 
Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of 
educational  services,  the  goal  of  the 
program  is  lo  provide  unemployed  in- 


Deadline  to  apply 
is  4  p.m.  tomorrow 


dividuals  with  educational  oppor- 
tunies which  will  facilitate  a  return  to 
employment. 

Dr.  Cunning  also  serves  as  pro- 
ject director  for  Ihe  program. 

Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  head  of 
counseling,  career  development  and 
placement  at  the  College,  will  be  assis- 
tant project  director. 

To  be  eligible  for  the  educational 
opportunities  program,  a  person  must 
have  been  employed  on  a  full-time 
basis  (previous  to  the  start  of  the  pro- 
gram) for  at  least  a  two-year  period; 
must  be  a  resident  of  one  of  the  Col- 
lege's 20  sponsor  districts;  must  be 
currently  unemployed. 

A  total  of  20  participants  will  be 
selected.  Dr.  Cunning  said  the  first  20 
deemed  eligible  to  participate-will  be 
the  ones  enrolled  in  the  program. 

There  is  no  cost  lo  the  participant 
to  enroll  in  the  program.  Dr.  Cunning 
noted. 

Unemployed  persons  who  feel 
they  meet  eligibility  rcquireinenis  and 
who  are  interested  in  developing  a  new 
skill  or  in  learning  how  to  "sell"  their 


existing  skills,  must  call  ihe  Admis- 
sions Office  of  the  College  by  4  p.m., 
tomorrow. 

Upon  calling  the  Admissions  of- 
fice, potential  parlicipants  will  be  ask- 
ed specific  questions  designed  lo  deter- 
mine eligibility.  If  it  is  determined 
Ihcy  are  eligible,  participants  will  be 
sent  a  letter  inviting  them  to  a  special 
orientation  meeting  for  the  program. 
Interested  persons  should  call  the  Ad- 
missions office  at  717-322-0149  bet- 
ween 8  a.m.  and  4:30  p.m.  from  now 
until  this  Wednesday  and  from  8  a.m. 
10  4  p.m.  on  that  day.  Dennis  W. 
Dunklebergcr,  of  that  office,  will  field 
calls. 

Dr.  Cunning  pointed  out  that 
current  students  of  the  College  and 
those  students  who  have  previously 
completed  four  semesters  of  study  at 
the  College  are  not  eligible. 

Summer  Job 
Opportunity 

Information  supplied  by 
College  Placement  Office 
Positions  available  May 
through  October.  Raft  Guides, 
Kayak  and/or  C-1  Guides  (must  be 
competent  in  up  lo  class  IV 
Whitewater).  Requirements:  18 
years  of  age  or  older,  current  Red 
Cross  Standard  FIrst-Ald  or 
equivalent,  current  Red  Cross  or 
American  Heart  Association  CRP, 
previous  experience  In  working 
with  people,  Whitewater  and/or  flat- 
water  paddling  experience.  Per- 
sonal interviews  prior  to  training 
session.  Attend  training  sessions 
held  on  three  weekends  prior  to 
season. 

Personnel  Manager 

Wilderness  Voyageurs  Inc. 

P.O.  Box  97 

Ohiopyle,  PA  15470 

Telephone:  (412)  329-4752 


6   ISP0TLI(;HT    Mnndai.  tlec.  12.  mi^  00^^i!(>^^1lfl00^^1S^^0000^000^0^0^1!t''f!t'00lB^l!t 


Wildcats  win  opener 


Photos  By 
LoRi  M.  Lane 


POINT  PLAYER  Jon  I).  Khlv,  fi)od 
and  hospilalily  managemenl  sludenl 
from  East  Berlin,  drives  in  for  a  lay- 
up. 


JUMP  BALL  al  the  slarl  of  Itie  game:  Timdlhy  A.  ^ 

Rodgers,  bniadcasling  sludenl  from  Boyerlown,  wins  Ihe  *^' 
loss. 


The  men's  Wildcat  baslcetball  leam  opened  lis  regular 
season  lasl  Monday  by  defeating  Baptist  Bible  College  JV, 
85-70,  in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

The  Wildcats  jumped  out  to  an  early  14-4  lead  only  lo 
see  the  Baptist  Bible  College  Defenders  come  back  to  wilhin 
two  points,  14-12. 

The  lead  in  favor  of  the  Wildcats  increased  lo  27-20 
with  4:55  left  in  the  first  half.  The  remainder  of  the  first  half 
saw  each  team  trading  baskets.  At  halftime,  Ihe  Community 
College  team  had  a  commanding  13  point  lead  al  39-26. 

Timothy  A.  Rodgers,  broadcasting  sludenl  from  Boyer- 
town,  led  the  leam  at  the  half  with  II  points.  He  finished  as 
the  game's  high  scorer  with  21  points. 
Add  lo  lead 

In  the  second  half,  the  Wildcats  added  lo  their  lead 
with  9:30  remaining  in  the  game  because  of  the  shooting 
heroics  of  Daniel  J.  Johnson,  general  studies  student  from 
Milton,  who  finished  with  18  points. 

With  three  minutes  to  go  in  the  game  the  Wildcats  had' 
a  23-point  margin  over  the  Defenders,  79-56. 

"We  still  didn't  plav  to  our  potential.  We  still  need  a 
lot  of  work  on  skills  and  fundamentals.  Our  shooting 
percentage  was  good  and  we  were  hitting  from  certain  spots 
on  the  floor.  We  also  shot  good  from  the  free-throw  line,'' 
said  Louis  J.  Menago,  Wildcat  coach. 

About  the  win,  Menago  said,  "We  always  play  well  al 
home.  Bccau.se  we  play  well  al  home,  maybe  students  will 
Slarl  to  gel  inlcrcMcd." 


BOTH  TEAMS  eye  Ihe  ball  lo  see  If  it's  a  hll 


TALKING  lo  leam  members  during 


|SI'0II,H;III     Munrla,.  Dc.  12.  IW    7 


Story  By 
Perry  D.  Pentz 


IN  ACTION  is  Timnlhy  A.  Rndgers. 
broadcasting  sludenl  from  Boyertown, 
during  liis  2l-poin(  game  againsi  Bap- 
tist Bible  College. 


Ouljumps  teammates 

BaplisI  Bible  College  was  led  in  scoring  by  Dave  Cunn- 
ingham and  Mark  Meyers.  Both  scored  18  points  for  their 
learn.  Cunningham  scored  12  of  his  points  in  the  second 
half. 

The  Community  College  team  was  led  in  rebounds  by 
Thomas  J.  Prowanl,  business  management  student  from 
New  Columbia,  who  ouljumpcd  his  teammates  for  eight  re- 
bounds. 

Four  Wildcats  scored  in  double  figures:    They  were 
Rodgers,  21;  Johnson,  18;  Jon  D.  Ehly,  food  and  hospilali-^ 
ty  student  from  East  Berlin,  18,  and  Richard  A.  Sullon, 
construction  carpentry  student  from  Towanda,  18. 
About  80  attend 

Other  members  of  the  College  team  who  scored  points 
are  John  M.  Kellum,  machine  tool  technology  student  from 
Brackney,  six  points;  Michael  F.  Turpack,  general  studies 
student  from  Milton,  two  points;  Prowant,  two  points,  and 
David  C.  Fink,  construction  carpentry  student  from  Tyrone, 
two  points. 

Approximately  80  people  attended  the  game.  Menago 
said,  "Attendance  was  good  and  I  really  thank  the  students. 
They  help  motivate  the  team." 

The  team's  next  game  will  be  played  against  Lock 
Haven  University  JV  at  7  p.m.,  tomorrow  in  the  Bardo 
Gym. 


iring  time  out  is  Coach 


BLOCKING  THKIR  opponent  are  Jon  D.  Ehly,  food  and  hospitality  manage- 
menl  student  from  East  Berlin,  and  Michael  F.  Turpack,  general  studies  student 
from  Milton. 


8l  ISPOTLIGHTi    Mnndav.  ite..  .2,  IWjft  #  #  jf '  #  6"  if '  #  if  #  Jf  # 


SPOTLIGHT  SPORTS 

B)  Ptrry  D   PmIi.  SPOTLIGHT  Sporlj  Fjfih 


uq 


Briar  House  leads  bowling; 
next  week  will  end  the  league 


Everybody  talks  abiiul  how  John  McEnroe  is  a  spoil  sporl  while  playing  his 
presligious  Icnnis  lournamenls.  Bui  McEnroe  gels  a  lol  of  unncessary  heal  whereas 
other  tennis  players,  such  as  Jimmy  Connors  and  Vilas  Gcralilus,  gel  no  flack  from 
Ihe  fans.  People  jusi  don't  realize  Ihe  pressures  associated  with  professional  tennis. 

Jimmy  Connors  has  a  lempcr  lanlrum  just  as  oficn  as  McEnroe,  bul  his  'Tils" 
aren't  publicized.  I  wish  people  would  give  him  and  olher  tennis  players  a  break 
because  he  is  only  human. 

Approximately  a  month  ago,  Connors  and  McEnroe  were  involved  in  a  tennis 
malch  with  Ihe  usually  calm  Connors  "flying  off  Ihe  handle".  McEnroe's  alliludc 
during  Ihe  malch  was  calm  compared  to  Connors'  outraged  outbursts  al  the  um- 
pires. His  "hot  under  the  collar"  altitude  cost  him  the  malch  and  Ihe  money 
associated  with  firsl  place. 

••  ■>- 

During  these  outbursts,  ihe  players  lend  to  lo,sc  their  concenlralion  and  end  up 
losing  the  malch. 

People  lend  lo  forget  the  fact  thai  players  arc  playing  for  exorbitant  amounts 

of  money.   Were  we  lo  play  tennis  for  the  amount  of  money  ihey  do,  il  would  be 

only  sensible  --  if  a  bad  call  were  againsi  us  --  lo  lell  the  umpires  how  we  feel.  One 

bad  line  call  could  throw  off  Ihe  concentration  and  cause  us  lo  lo.se  Ihe  malch. 

■•  ••• 

With  the  pressures  of  slaying  number  one  in  Ihe  world  of  icniiis,  il  is  likely  ihai 
the  players  will  gripe  about  any  cerlain  call. 

Admillcdly,  umpires  are  only  human  and  aren't  pcrfcci,  bul  .some  of  the  easy 
calls  arc  missed  by  "professional"  umpires.  A  solution  would  be  lo  u.se  cicclronic 
eyes  with  umpires  as  back-ups. 

Although  the  tennis  federation  docs  this  on  occasion,  il  should  be  done  for  all 
Ihe  matches  -  whether  Ihe  lop  alhlelcs  in  lennis  are  playing  or  noi. 

Try  10  understand:    Ihe  lennis  players  arc  only  human. 

Gel  off  Ihe  professionals'  backs  --  especially  McEnroe.  He  is  nol  the  only 
player  lo  gel  "hoi"  over  a  bad  call. 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 


For  llie  Ktet  of  Mmdav.  Dei.  12 
llirmieli  Suniiat:  Dec.  IH 

Today 

Basketball...  7  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8  lo  10  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Open  gym...  4  lo  6  p.m. 
Wednesday,  Dec.  14 
Basketball     (championship)...     8 
p.m. 

Open  gym...  7  lo  8  p.m.  and  9  lo 
10  p.m. 

Thursday,  Dec.  15 
Basketball  (if  needed)...  8  p.m. 
Open    gym...    Check    intramural 
bulletin  board. 

FOR  RENT 
Clean,  furnished  rooms  for 
female  sludenls.  Sludenl  kitchen 
and  balh.  Only  Ihree  blocks  from 
W.A.C.C.  Localed  al  754  W.  Third 
SI.  or  phone  326-4507. 
KUDOS  TO  Sandra  Lakey  in  (he 
lulorial  cenler-a  fine  scholar  and  a 
good  friend.  I  wouldn't  have  made  il 
Ihrough  Ihe  semester  wilhoul  your  pa- 
lience  and  guidance.  Sincerely, 
Stephanie. 


IM  basketball 
continues  tonight; 
results  listed 

Intramural  basketball  will  con- 
tinue al  7  p.m.  today  in  the  Bardo 
Gym,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  athletics. 

Participants  may  check  the  in- 
tramural bulletin  board  in  Ihe  gym  or 
conlaci  her  in  the  intramural  alhlclics 
and  College  activities  office,  Mrs. 
Fremiolli  said. 

Results  from  games  previously 
plaed  arc: 

Al  7  p.m.,  Nov.  30,  NAD's  beat 
76'ers,  80-58;  Wild  Cats  trounced 
Animals,  116-46;  Yuckalanners  edged 
The  Ice  Men,  98-90,  and  Bombers 
won  by  forfeit  over  Butler's  Boys. 

Al  8  p.m.,  Nov.  1,  R.T.&T.  won 
by  forfeil  over  Elwood's  Boys, 
WecHees  won  by  forfeil  over 
Bouncers,  and  Dean's  Demolition 
Crew  edged  diggers,  72-70. 

At  7  p.m.,  Dec.  I,  WeeHees  won 

by  a  forfeit  over  Dean's  Demolition 

Crew;  Bums  beat  R.T.  &  T.,  74-64; 

■■■  Please  lurti  lo  Pa^e  12 


V«W«-VqiVQ'W«Q«ni^^'^Q«^«PQ] 


The  executive  hoard.  Ihe  officen.  ami 

Phi  Beta  Lambda 

extend 

of  the  Williamsporl  Area 

Community  College 

extend  BEST  WISHES  for  a 

MERRY  CHRISTMAS  AND  A 

HAPPY  NEW  YEAR! 


Briar  House  leads  Ihe  intramural 
bowling  league  at  ABC  Bowling 
Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave.  Next  week  is 
the  last  week  for  the  league,  according 
10  records  provided  by  Lanes' 
management. 

Briar  House  has  a  three-game 
lead  over  Alley  Cats  with  a  22-8 
record. 

The  inlfamural  bowling  results 
from  Dec.  6  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

Wins 

Losses 

1.  Briar  House 

22 

8 

2.  Alley  Cats 

19 

11 

3.  Destroyers 

16 

14 

4.  Metal  Men 

15 

15 

5.  Bull  Spinners 

14 

16 

6.  Flinlstones 

13 

17 

7.  Dew  Crew 

II 

19 

8.  Mihon 

10 

10 

Men's  high  single  game 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  slyudenl  from  Scranlon, 
255. 

Christopher  L.  Patrick,  computer 
science  student  from  Morrisdale,  202. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  192. 

Women's  high  single  game 

Judy  A.  West,  clerical  science 
student  from  Montoursville,  159. 

Denlse  M.  King,  secretarial 
science  student  from  Cogan  Station, 
154. 

Nicola  S.  Reese,  general  studies 
student  from  Wellsboro,  145. 
Men's  high  series 

Seber  bowled  a  645. 

Patrick,  539. 

Zohn,  502. 

Women's  high  series 

Reese  bowled  a  420. 

King,  420. 

West,  410. 

High  team  single 

Bull  Spinners,  866. 

Flinlstones,  830. 


Alley  Cats,  826. 

High  team  series 

Bull  Spinners,  2405. 

Flinlstones,  2398. 

Alley  Cats,  2375. 
High  averages 

The  five  persons  with  Ihe  highest 
averages  arc  Seber,  213;  Patrick,  179; 
Troy  G.  Kreider,  construction 
building  technology  student  from 
Williamsporl,  174;  Zohn,  166,  and 
Barry  F.  Yoder,  computer  science  slu- 
denl from  Dewart,  165. 


Volleyball  rosters 
available  at  IM  office 

Rosters  for  inlramural  volleyball 
may  be  picked  up  in  the  intramural 
athletics  and  College  aclivilies  office, 
according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiol- 
li, coordinator  of  inlramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 

If  few  participants  sign  up  for  in- 
lramural wrestling,  then  intramural 
volleyball  will  begin  jusi  after  the  start 
of  the  Spring  Semester,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli. 

Inlramural  volleyball  will  consist 
of  male,  female,  and  coed  teams  if 
enough  teams  sign  up,  Mrs.  Fremiolli 
said. 

14  sign  up  for  wrestling 

Fourteen  persons  have  signed  up 
for  inlramuial  wrcslling  which  will 
begin  in  January,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor  of 
inlramural  alhlclics  and  College  ac- 
livilies. 

"There  is  nol  a  loi  of  vaiiancc  in 
the  weights  of  ilic  wrcsilcrs,"  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

If  more  persons  sign  up,  a  lonr- 
naincnl  will  be  held,  Mrs.  Fremiolli 
said. 

iiiiiuniiHiHunminiiiniiuiiinHHnmHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 


Church  of  the  Annunciation 


410  WALNUT  STREET 
WILUAMSPORT,  PENNSYLVANIA    17701 


Mass  Schedule: 

Saturday-4  antd  5;30  p.m. 

Sunday-7:30,  9,  10;15, 
and  11:30  a.m. 


Sunday  Folk  Mass 

at 

5  p.m. 


If  interested  in  joining  Ihe  Folk  Group, 
conlaci  Father  Kozen  al  323-9456. 


>»b^b«,b«04i.0«b«^ 


M'OIIU.MI     Mum\■^^.  !»<•..  12.  IW    9 


Placement  survey  availabk; 
944  graduates  respond 


The  new  placcmcnl  survey  rcporl 
now  is  available,  according  lo 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  dirccior  of 
counseling,  career  devclopmcni  and 
placement. 

The  survey  conlains  information 
such  as  ihe  number  of  graduates 
surveyed,  loial  responses,  the  number 
of  those  employed  in  and  out  of  their 
field  of  training,  those  who  continued 
their  education,  those  who  arc  in  the 
inililary  or  unemployed,  and  the 
average  starling  salaries  for  each  of 
eight  fields  of  study:  allied  health, 
business  and  compulcr  science,  con- 
struction  technology,  earth  science. 


high  technology,  humanities  and  com- 
munication arts,  transportation,  and 
college  and  university  transfer  pro- 
grams. 

According  to  the  report,  1.165 
graduates  were  surveyed,  944 
responded  lo  the  survey,  617  were 
employed  in  their  field  of  training,  118 
continued  their  education,  147  were 
employed  oul  of  iheir  field  of  training, 
12  entered  the  military,  103  were 
employed  out  of  state,  42  were 
unemployed,  eight  were  not  in  the 
labor  market,  and  the  average  starling 
salary  was  $12,463  per  year. 


Preregistering  recommended 
for  non-credit  courses 


"Wc  strongly  recommend  thai 
students  preregislcr  in  order  to  gel 
what  they  want,"  said  Mrs.  Barbara 
A.  Danko,  director  of  lifelong  educa- 
tion, in  reference  to  registering  for  on 
and  off-campus  non-credit  courses. 

Registration  is  according  to  the 
space  available  in  the  class.  Anyone 
can  register  at  Ihe  Center  for  Lifelong 
Educalion  (in  Ihe  Academic  Center), 
by  sending  the  application  hi  the 
Center  for  Lifelong  Educalion 
brochure  by  mail,  or  on  the  first  night 
of  the  class,  said  Ms.  Sandra  L. 
Rosenbcrger,  coordinator  of  com- 
munity based  projects. 

At  Warrior  Run,  there  arc  ex- 
panded classes  of  gymnastics  for 
children  and  al  Miffiinburg,  there  arc 
also  expanded  classes,  Ms. 
Rosenbcrger  said. 

Wilderness  Adventure  is  a  new 
class  which  includes  downhill  skiing  at 


Information  Office 
sacks  'exchanging'; 
instead  will  donate 
gift  cash  to  needy 

Christmas  is  a  lime  for  giving, 
earing,  and  sharing.  And,  every  year 
the  staff  in  the  College  Information 
Office  exchanges  gifts  at  Christmas- 
time. 

"But  this  year,"  said  Ms.  Bar- 
bara M.  John.son,  director  of  com- 
munications, "rather  than  exchanging 
gifis,  wc  plan  to  donate  the  equivalent 
amouni  of  money  to  a  local  free  food 
organization." 

"There  arc  so  many  people 
unemph>yed  or  just  lonely.  We  feel 
lliat  these  people  have  a  greater  need 
for  receiving  al  this  special  time,"  said 
Ms.  Johnson. 

"Other  offices  at  the  College  arc 
invited  lo  join  us  in  this  project  of 
making  a  gill  to  those  in  need  this 
holiday  season,"  she  added. 


Oregon  Hill.  The  class  al.so  includes 
four  lessons  and  four  lift  tickets,  she 
said. 

Next  semester,  there  will  be  a 
cross  country  skiing  session  indoors 
for  those  wh<i  have  never  cross  coun- 
Iry  skied,  Ms.  Rosenbcrger  said. 

Registration 

open  for  non-credit 

courses  at  College 

Registration  for  90  non-credit,  on 
campus  courses  will  continue  lo  the 
week  of  Jan.  16,  according  lo  Mrs. 
Carol  F.  Kauhiian,  coordinator  of 
cainpus  based  programs.  It  began  last 
Monday. 

More  than  75  percent  of  the 
students  preregislcr  to  gel  Ihe  courses 
they  want.  Rcgistratiim  is  based  on 
the  space  available  in  the  class. 
Popular  courses  such  as  stained  glass, 
aerobics,  banjo,  and  photography  fill 
up  fast,  she  said. 

Tuition  must  be  paid  when 
registering.  Anyone  can  register  dur- 
ing the  day  at  the  Student  Records  Of- 
fice in  the  Academic  Center  from  8 
a.m.  10  4:.30  p.m. 

In  the  evening,  registering  is  done 
at  Ihe  Center  for  Lifelong  Education 
from  4:30  to  10  p.m.,  Monday 
through  Thursday,  Mrs.  Kaufman 
said. 

There  is  a  "senior  citi/en 
tuition"  for  individuals  60  years  of 
age  or  older. 

Some  new  classes  being  offered 
are  printed  advertising,  as.sertivencss 
training  in  business,  ceramics,  Bible 
study  techniques,  advanced  roller 
skating  for  adults,  and  lime  manage- 
ment. 

"We  have  courses  for  all  ages 
and  vaiicd  interests,"  Mrs.  Kaufman 
said. 

REMIINUER  TO  BIOLOGY... 

...s(udenls  lo  pick  up  hoagles  bet- 
ween 10  and  1 1  a.m.  in  Ihe  Academic 
Center  Lobby. 


ACROSS 

1  Sprint 
5  Vipers 
9  Mountain 

12  Region 

13  Father 

14  Chicken 

15  Long  (for) 
17  Motorless 

vessel 
19  Checlied 

21  Night  birds 

22  Caprice 

24  Preposition 

25  Genus  ot 
cattle 

26  Hurry 

27  Classify 
29  Rupees: 

abbr. 

31  Urge  on 

32  Hebrew  letter 

33  Parent: 
colloq. 

34  Eat 

35  Compass 
point 

36  Tried 

36  Beverage 

39  Mournful 

40  Teutonic 
deity 

41  Nuisance 

42  Unlock 
44  Public 

speaker 
46  Foreboding 
48  Stage 

whisper 

51  Bushy  clump 

52  Choir  voice 

54  Lamb's  pen 
name 

55  Declare 

56  Musical 
Instrument 

57  Depression 


DOWN 

1  Period 
of  time 

2  Exist 

3  Scorching 

4  Seraglio 

5  Conjunction 

6  Alluring 

7  Goad 
6  Stnch 

9  Presen- 
tations 

10  Cure 

11  Emmets 
16  Symbol  lor 

nickel 
16  Footwear 
20  Part  of 

face:  pi. 

22  Singing  bird 

23  Massive 
25  Wire  nail 

27  Imitated 

28  Musical 
drama 

29  Regrets 

30  Quarrel 


Answer  lo  fast  week  'j  puzde 

A    P  0   DHB   «  OHM  0    L    L 

PARrBl    1     eBa    LO    E 

1     S    LeBaS    pBl    1    S    T 

STEAL   sHa    L    LOTS 

IIIM    E    tBr    E    Elll 

"    '"IIHIIOER 

1    s  s  u  E oWa  N  S W  E  R 

1  1  1  Q   14   uH  T  0    T  1  1  1 

P  A   R  A  0   eII  T    R    E    B    L    E 

aranMn  E  e||rood 

RENoBnOnIe    L8A 

A   S    1    a|  A   N   d|  stem 

34  Unproductive  44  Eye 

36  Makes  into  amorously 


leather 

45  Symbol  for 

37  Clyllndrlcal 

tantalum 

39  Shabby 

47  Swiss  river 

41  Sat  lor 

49  Noise 

portrait 

50  Dine 

42  Chooses 

53  Hypothetical 

43  Malay  canoe 

force 

' 

i 

J 

* 

1 

i 

«■" 

5- 

i 

5~ 

10" 

" 

'* 

i 

TP 

!■ 

w 

i 

S3 

,,» 

■ 

!P 

§■ 

1^ 

m 

1 

1 

W 

w 

pi" 

1 

r 

M 

JUT 

41 

w 

1 

i 

47 

w 

w 

1 

1 

u 

n 

INS  ama  3  3  hHa  v  s 

V    1    T    3  Ho  I    T    vHo  0  1 

3  0   1  sp  liDvsaud 

■  ldoLlVtlOlN3dO 

iS3dPii3lavs|| 

V3lIa3183ll3N 

aa3  aa  oa  m^m 

3an  aa  aaaal 

S  -I    MlOBa  3|N|||3    u    II 

i  V  olejMO  uIRnJu  v  3  a 

M  3    hUs   U     I^Wv  3    b  ¥ 

y  HSHs  d  sIvHh  8  vol 

jOMtuv  aizznd 


Computer  Science  Club 
lo  meet  tomorrow 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
have  a  meeting  tomorrow  al  3:30  p.m. 
in  Room  321,  Academic  Center,  ac- 
cording to  B.  Drew  Robison,  com- 
pulcr science  student  from  Dun- 
cansvillc. 

A  demonstration  on  Ihe  TRS  80 
microcomputer  will  be  discussed. 

All  club  members  should  attend 
to  place  Iheir  orders  for  Ihe  club 
sweatshirts  and  to  discuss  the  upcom- 
ing evenis  and  lours,  Robison  said. 


f  BENSOlT 


\* 


€lfi1  mini,   ^ 
nin  market 

Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts. 

Gas  Groceries 

Snacks      Tobacco 

Always  Open  Nights,  Sundays,  and  Holidays 


J 


10uSPOTI.I(;HT'  :M.md.,.  Bee.  12.  IW)  Jj)  Up  00  If^  0  0^^!^  ^  0  ^  ^  ^  ^  <ff' ^  ^  ^  ^ ''If^^  ^ '^  ^^  ^  ^^^  ^  ^  ^ 

Limited  sponsorship  issue  sparks  Trustees'  meeting 


By  Joan  L.  Thompson 
SPOTLIGHT  Admini.srriilive  AlCain  Edilot 

Background 

A  class  aclioii  suit  lias  been  filed 
against  llie  Williamsporl  Area  School 
Dislrici  in  llie  Lycoming  County 
Court  o/Coimnon  Pleas  by  a  student 
from  the  Comnmnity  College. 

Terry  A.  Hasselman,  radiologic 
technology  student  from 
Williamsport,  said  she  has  filed  suit 
against  the  district  for  denying  her 
and  other  students  residing  in  the 
district  certificates  of  sponsorship. 

The  suit  charges  that  the  school 
district  is  in  violation  of  state  law  by 
limiting  sponsorship  of  students  to 
four  semesters,  she  said. 


The  issue  of  sponsorship  was 
brought  up  during  the  College  presi- 
dent's report  at  the  monthly  Board  of 
Trustees  meeting  last  Monday  night. 

On  introduction  of  the  topic,  Dr. 
Robert  L.  Breuder,  president,  said, 
"We  are  in  a  situation  where  it  is 
becoming  increasingly  uncom- 
fortable..." 

After  giving  some  preliminary 
background,  he  then  read  four  letters 
addressing  the  problem. 

One,  from  the  state  secretary  of 
education  -  Robert  C.  Wilburn  -  was 
written  to  the  mother  of  a  student 
from  Middleburg. 

Wilburn  said,  "You  are  correct 
in  your  understanding  that  a  local 
sponsoring  district  cannot  limit  spon- 
sorship of  a  resident  to  60-credil 
hours  or  two  years  of  attendance. 

"The  Community  College 
Regulations  in  Section  35.29(a-c)  are 
clear  with  respect  to  program  admis- 
sion and  local  sponsor  residence  re- 
quirements," he  said. 

The  other  three  letters  were  cor- 
respondence between  the  director  of 
pupil  personnel  for  the  Williamsporl 
Area  School  District  -  Wayne  D. 
Fausnaught  -  and  William  C.  Allen, 
Community    College    dean    of    ad- 


ministrative services,  cnncernmg  pay- 
ment of  sponsorship  in  the  amount  of 
$290,585  for  Fall  Semester  1983. 

Fausnaught  said,  "According  to 
our  records,  the  following  students 
who  appear  on  this  billing  have  at- 
tended over  four  semesters..."  He 
listed  six  students  and  requested  a 
credit  memorandum  in  the  amount  of 
$2,270.  The  students  mentioned  had 
presented  the  Community  College 
with  the  appropriate  certificates  of 
sponsorship. 

In  Allen's  reply,  he  reminded 
Fausnaught  of  the  communication  of 
the  commissioner  of  higher  education. 
Dr.  James  P.  Gallagher,  which  Dr. 
Breuder  had  shared  with  the  Executive 
Council  and  the  superintendents  of 
each  of  the  sponsoring  school 
districts. 

Dr.  Gallagher's  communication 
specified  that  "each  college  shall  be 
open  to  ail  residents  of  the  Com- 
monwealth without  reference  to  prior 


educational  achievements." 

Allen  then  requested  the  invoice 
be  paid,  with  assurances  of  a  refund 
should  a  modification  or  reversal  of 
the  Board  Regulation  35.29  occur  due 
to  any  related  legal  action. 

Fausnaught  replied  on  Nov.  30 
that  the  district  "will  not  comply  with 
your  request..."  He  went  on,  "This 
district  and  many  other  school 
districts  do  not  agree  with  Dr. 
Gallagher's  interpretation  of  Chaper 
35..." 

"Please  be  reminded," 
Fausnaught  said,  "that  this  issue  is 
between  the  students  and  the  school 
district.  The  College  is  not  a  party  to 
it." 

Dr.  Breuder  expressed  concern 
on  behalf  of  the  students  who  are,  he 
said,  being  forced  to  lake  on  an  addi- 
tional financial  burden  since  the  Col- 
lege will  have  no  choice  but  to  bill  the 
studcnis  if  the  districts  refuse  to  pay 
the  tuition. 


They  (ihc  students)  will  also  have 
the  "additional  burden"  of  legal  costs 
if  Ihcy  choose  to  go  to  courl  to  resolve 
Ihc  problem,  he  added. 

At  the  trustees'  meeting,  he  call- 
ed upon  Nathan  W.  Stuart,  who  is 
solicilor  for  both  the  Community  Col- 
lege and  the  school  district,  for  com- 
ment. 

Stuart  stated  Dr.  Breuder  was  in 
"error",  thai  the  law  is  subject  to  in- 
terpretation and  is  not  "clear".  He 
said,  "Since  the  case  is  in  litigation, 
I  his  is  not  the  time  nor  place  to 
discuss  it." 

Dr.  Breuder  suggested  the  dislrict 
pay  the  sponsor  fees  and  then  appeal 
the  regulation. 

At  the  meeting,  too,  Paul  A. 
Paulhamus,  trustee,  also  look  excep- 
tion to  the  issue  suggested  by  the 
Community  College  president.  He 
said  he  was  sorry  for  the  students  but, 
in  this  case,  had  to  agree  with  the 
dislrict. 


Drafting  contest  planned  at  College 


The  Secondary  Vocational  Pro- 
grams division  of  the  College  will  be 
sponsoring  a  drafting  contest  for  in- 
dustrial arts  students  on  next  Tues- 
day, Dec.  20.  The  contest  is  open  to 
ninth,  10th,  lllh,  and  12lh  grade 
students  from  any  of  the  high  schools 
sponsoring  the  College's  secondary 
program.  Seventy-five  students  are 
expected  to  participate. 

According  to  the  contest  coor- 
dinator, Edward  L.  Roadarmel,  in- 
structor of  drafting,  the  purpose  of  the 
contest  is  to  evaluate  each  contestant's 
mastery  of  mechanical  drafting  skills 
and  to  recognize  outstanding  students 
for  excellence  and  professionalism  in 
the  field  of  mechanical  drafting. 
Students  who  arc  enrolled,  have  been 
enrolled  in,  or  show  an  interest  in 
mechanical  drafting  can  participate  in 
the  contest. 

Three  awards  will  be  given  for 
each  grade  level  with  the  awards  being 
sponsored  by  the  Society  of  Manufac- 


turing Engineers.  The  first  place  win- 
ner in  each  level  will  receive  a  cer- 
tificate and  drafting  equipment  and 
second  and  third  place  winners  al  each 
level  will  receive  certificates.  Judges 
will  be  from  the  College  staff  and 
awards  will  be  presented  during  an 
assembly  that  afternoon  in  (he 
Academic  Center  Auditorium.  The 
College's  Secondary  Vocational  Pro- 
grams' students  will  assist  in  the  runn- 
ing of  the  contest,  Roadarmel  said. 

High  schools  participating  in  the 
College's  secondry  program  include: 
Bishop  Neumann  High  School, 
Williamsport;  Canton  High  School; 


Hughesville  High  School;  Jersey 
Shore  High  School;  Bald  Eagle  Nit- 
lany  High  School,  Mill  Hall;  Bucktail 
High  School,  Renovo;  Lock  Haven 
High  School;  Sugar  Valley  High 
School,  Loganton;  Millville  High 
School;  Montgomery  High  School; 
Montoursville  High  School;  South 
Williamsport  High  School;  Liberty 
High  School;  North  Penn  High 
School,  Blossburg;  Sullivan  County 
High  School,  Laporte;  Warrior  Run 
High  School;  Williamsport  High 
School;  Wellsboro  Area  High  School, 
and  Mansfield  Area  High  School. 


COMPLETE  AUDIO  SYSTEMS 

$49900 


AS  LOW  AS 


(Financing  Available) 

Purchase  Any 

Pair  el 
Scett  Speakers 

and  Gel  The 

Speaker  Stands 

FREE 


"We  Want  To  Be  Your  Stereo  Store" 
Rt.  15  25  W.  Church  St. 

Lewlsburg 
(717)  524-9182 


(Badman/Sctiufer  Building) 

Williamsport 
323-2622 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


Summer  Employment  Opportunity 


Information 
Summer  Employment 
tana; 

Waiters 

Bartender/ 

Waiters/ 

Waitresses 

Grill  Cooks 

Camp  Store  Clerks 

Accounting  Clerks 

Laundry  Workers 

Decktiands 


furnished  by  Placenneni  Office 
Opportunities  in  Glacier  National  Park,  Ivlon- 


Waitresses 

Desk  Clerks 

Bell  Porters 

Housepersons 

Kitchen  Workers 

Reservation  Clerks 

Undergardeners 

Warehouse  Clerks 

Bus  Drivers 


Bus  Persons 

Cashiers 

Room  Attendants 

Porters 

Gilt  Shop  Clerks 

General  Office 

Personnel 

Truck  Drivers 

...and  many  others 


..to  operate  four  hotels  and  three  motor  inns. 


Some  employees  begin  work  as  early  as  lyiay  1  and  some  remain  as  late 
as  Oct,  1 , 

FOR  A  COtWlPLETE  LISTING  OF  JOBS  AVAILABLE,  SALARIES, 
AND  ALL  IMPORTANT  DETAILS,  WRITE  IMMEDIATELY  TO: 

Ian  B.  Tippet 

Executive  Director  of  Personnel 

Glacier  National  Park  Hotels 

Glacier  Park  Inc. 

Greyhound  Tower,  Mail  Station  5185        ' 

Phoenix,  Arizona  85077 

fTelephone  Number  is:  602-248-2600] 


«^<b^^^Odk  bA.ib^ttj»&4^  S^  ^4* ' 


'Distinquished 
teacher  awards' 
nominations 
to  begin 
in  January 


During  spring  scmcslcr,  sludcnls, 
facully,  adminislralion  and  alumni 
will  again  have  ihc  oppiiriunity  lo 
niiminalc  llic  leathers  lo  receive  Ihc 
^_^^  "Disiiiiguished  Teaching  Awards"  fcir 
Ihis  academic  year,  said  Dr.  Roberl 
(i.  Bowers,  cxcculive  assislani  for  in- 
Icrnal  affairs. 

On  Jan.  15,  1984,  informalion 
booklcis  and  nominalion  forms  will  be 
disiribuled  lo  various  localions  on 
campus. 

The  booklcis  will  describe,  in 
some  dclail,  ihc  ralionale,  crileria, 
and  process  for  making  Ihe  noniina- 
lion.s. 

Dr.  Bowers  said,  "This  is  an  op- 
porlunily  for  Ihe  sludenus  lo  have 
some  inipacl  in  lerms  of  gelling 
recognilicm  for  ihe  people  who  arc 
very  dramalically  or  very  significanlly 
influencing  Iheir  cducalunial  lives." 
Details  needed 

The  nominations  will  be  a 
challenge  in  ihal  ihe  lask  of  ihe 
nominalor  is  lo  prcseni  ihe  candidale 
in  as  convincing  a  manner  as  possible 
ihrough  ihe  "supporlive  dclail"  and 
"specific  examples"  conveyed  in  ihc 
wrillen  slalemenl. 

"Obviously,  no  one  could  excel 
in  every  calcgory  lislcd  in  ihe  crileria. 
However,   ihose  ilcms  which  apply 


should  be  used  as  a  basis  lo  explain 
why  Ihc  nominalor  feels  his  or  her 
nominee  should  be  cho.sen,"  he  com- 
mcnied. 

The  booklel  specifics  lhal  can- 
didalcs  will  be  cvalualcd  mosi  seriou.s- 
ly  when  llieir  iiomiiiaiing  documcnls 
are  "specific"  and  "fully  developed". 
The  qualily  and  dclail  of  ihc  suppor- 
ling  informali(ni  and  examples  will  be 
a  major  significance,  nol  ihc  number 
of  forms  submilied  for  a  single  in- 
dividual." 

Excerpts  given 

Perhaps  ihc  besl  example  of  ihis 
technique  can  be  seen  in  exccrpis  from 
last  year's  nominalion  documcnls  of 
Dr.  Pelcr  B.  Dumanis,  professor  of 
English,  who  w(m  Ihe  "Maslers 
Teaching  Award",  which  follows: 

"He  can  mesmerize  a  class  when 
he  warms  lo  his  subjcd;  his  cn- 
ihusiasm  becomes,  al  limes,  ex- 
hausling.  As  I  li.sicn  and  wal'ch,  I 
learn  more  aboul  Ihe  an  of  leaching 
Ihan  any  book-learning  or  formal 
sludy  can  convey.  I  have  seen  a  class 
forgel  Ihc  clock,  sil  pasl  dismissal  lime 
and  ihen  linger  lo  finish  a  discussion. 
No  question  hangs  unanswered." 

"He  knows  his  audience  and 
their  culture.  He  captures  them  in 
their  own  intercsis  and  brings  ihcm  lo 


SfOII.KJHI     Mxiiilav.  Do..  12.  \m     11 

more  1  radii  ional  sources.  Thus,  he 
can  reach  sludcnls  in  ways  lhal  many 
cannot." 

More  lime  Ihis  year 

Dr.  Bowers  explained  that  due  to 
Ihc  newness  of  the  program,  last  year 
nominators  had  only  a  few  weeks  lo 
prepare  their  cnlrics.  "This  year, 
they  will  have  several  weeks  and,  as  a 
result,  wc  arc  looking  forward  to  a 
greater  amouni  of  parlicipalion." 

Last  year's  recipients  of  the  "Ex- 
cellence in  Teaching  Awards"  were 
Ms.  Patricia  J.  Shoff,  a.s.sociatc  pro- 
fessor of  business  administration,  and 
Robert  W.  Stull,  assistant  professor  of 
electrical  conslruclion. 

The  seven-member  selection  com- 
mittee will  review  all  nominations  ac- 
cording lo  Ihe  objedives  outlined  in 
the  booiriel.  The  committee  will  then 
recommend  one  recipient  for  the 
'"Master  Teaching  Award"  and,  at 
most,  two  recipients  for  the  "Ex- 
cellence in  Teaching  Award"  lo  Dr. 
Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president, 
mcnccmcnl  exercises  on  May  12 
1984. 

The  monelary  porliim  of  Ihe 
awards,  one  of  $500  and  two  of  $250, 
arc  made  possible  Ihrough  the 
Williamsporl  Area  Communily  Col- 
lege Foundation  Inc. 


Education  conference  successful,  College  participants  report 


By  Annelle  M.  Engel 
Of  Tlie  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 
Three  presentations  were 
"outstanding"  al  the  1983  National 
Adult  Education  Conference  al  the 
Franklin  Plaza  Hotel  in  Philadelphia 
the  week  of  Nov.  28,  according  lo  the 
three  staff  members  from  the  Center 
for  Lifelong  Education  who  attended. 
Those  who  attended  are  Mrs. 
Barbara  A.  Danko,  director  of 
lifelong  education;  Ms.  Sandra  L. 
Rosenberger,  coordinator  of  com- 
munily based  programs,  and  Mrs. 
Carol  F.  Kaufman,  coordinator  of 
campus  based  programs. 

The  pr(;,scntalion,  "Assertive 
Management  for  Women",  was  Mrs. 
Danko's  favorite.  A  representative 
from  the  University  of  Delaware  spoke 
on  the  characteristics  of  passive,  ag- 
gresvie,  and  assertive  managers.  She 
also  spoke  on  the  verbal  and  non- 
verbal characteristics  people  show. 
'...a  lol  of  ideas' 
Learning  to  give  constructive 
criticism  and  accepting  criticisin  was 
also  discussed,  Mrs.  Danko  said. 

Two  individuals  from  Ihc 
Univcsily  of  Wisc(nisin  spoke  on  their 
School  for  Senior  Citizens,  Ms. 
Ro.scnbcrgcr  said. 

Non-credit  courses  arc  offered  lo 
senior  cilizens  free  of  cost  in 
downlown  Milwaukee.  The  senior 
cili/ens,  labeled  "traveling  teachers", 
go  and  speak  al  nursing  homes  about 
what  ihey  learned,  said  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 

"It  gave  me  a  lot  of  good  ideas 
for  our  programs  here,"  she  said. 
Work  force  reviewed 
Al  a  general  session,  Seymour  L. 


Wolfbein,  former  deputy  assistant  for 
labor  and  future  president  of  Temple 
Univesily  in  Tokyo,  spoke  on  adult 
education  in  the  work  force  and 
statistics  on  the  outlook  of  the  work 
force,  Mrs.  Danko  said. 

"One  of  the  most  important 
things  for  us  was  meeting  with  people 
of  adult  education  from  all  over  the 
world,"  she  said. 

There  were  over  2,000  people 
who  attended  ihe  c.nifcrcnce  from  all 
over  the  world,  Mrs.  Danko  said. 

Another  presenlalion  was  enlilled 
"Effeclive  Communicalion;  The  Non- 
verbal Perspeclivc".  Mrs.  Kaufman 
allcnded  Ihis  presenlalion. 

Oulslanding  work  noted 

Mrs.  Kaufman  said  ihc  speaker 
spoke  aboul  nini-vcrbal  communica- 
ili(ni  in  a  management  organization, 

"She  spoke  about  creating  and 

Maryland  private  college 
offers  special  scholarships 
lo  transfer  students 

The  College  of  Noire  Dame  of 
Maryland  has  a  scholarship  prograin 
for  women  transfer  sludcnls  fr(nn 
junior  and  ccmimunity  colleges. 
Presidcniial  Fellowships,  valued  al 
$2,000  per  year,  are  available  in  both 
Ihc  spring  and  fall  semesters  and  arc 
renewable  for  a  inaxiinum  of  three 
years,  according  to  a  news  release 
from  the  college. 

More  information  is  available  by 
writing  10  the  Dean  of  Adniissimis, 
College  of  Noire  Danic,  4701  N. 
Charles  St.,  Balliinorc,  Md.  21210,  or 
by  calling  (.Wl)  4,'!5-0100,  or  (800) 
4.15-0200  in  Maryland,  (800)  4.15-0.100 
onlsidc  of  Marvland. 


maintaining  inlcrdcpendcncc  among 
people,  programs,  associations, 
orgajuzalions,  and  inslilulioiis,"  Mrs. 
Kaufman  said. 

Mrs.  Danko  and  Ms. 
Rosenberger  attended  an  awards  and 
fellowship  luncheon  for  those  who 
have  done  outstanding  work  in  adult 
education. 

Philosophy  outlined 

Mrs.  Kaufman  attended  a  social 
philosophy  luncheon  with  Dr.  S.  V. 
Marlorana,  professor  of  higher  educa- 
tion at  Ihc  Pennsylvania  Slate  Univer- 


sity, as  the  speaker.  The  lopic  was 
"Social  versus  Economic  Deter- 
minism in  Acquiring  Popular  Support 
for  Adult  Educalion:  Some  Lessons 
Drawn  from  the  American  Communi- 
ty College  Movement". 

"He  talked  about  communily 
colleges  as  being  on  the  culling  edge  of 
adult  education,"  Mrs.  Kaufman 
said. 

"Many  of  the  progressive  things 
Dr.  Marlorana  talked  aboul...  the 
College  (W.A.C.C.I  is  already  doing 
lo  make  lifelong  education  a  popular 
learning  value,"  she  added. 


\^  Cerwin-Vega! 

The  FINEST-NO  JIVE-FINEST  Rock 

Speakers    you    can    own!      Loud    is 

beautiful  if  it's  clean. 

Listen  to  the  best  now  at: 

%e%ecord  Stofe 

The  HOT  SPOT  for  a// your  music  needs/ 
We  have  the  lowest  prices  anywhere  on 
MAXELL  &  TDK  BLANK  TAPES 


PHONE:    323-9599 
8V2  W.  Fourth  St.  Williamsport,  PA  17701 1 


llnSPOTLIGHT'    M..nda>.  Dci-.  12.  19H.1    j5)lj5lllf((!J)lj!Jll|f!l5lllJ|;##ll!^##l!Jl###l5!##l5l#l!5' 

I   Bulletin  Board 

I     For  llie  week  11/ Momlav.  Dec.  I!  Illrmigli  Suiitim:  Dei.  IS 
MEETINGS 
Computer  Science  Club...  3:30  p.m.,  lomorrow,  Room  321.  Academic- 
Center. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  noon,  Wednesday,  firsl  floor,  Bardo  Gym. 
.Senice  and  Operation  of  Heavy  Equipment  Club...  7  p.m.,  Thursday. 
Room  317,  Academic  Cenlcr. 

Parents  and  Friends  of  Tot  Watch...  parly  and  meeting,  6  10  9  p.m., 
Wednesday,  Room  105,  Academic  Center. 

North  Campus  students     M  basketball 

plan  semester-end  party 

.Stndenls  at  the  North  Campus 
arc  planning  an  end-of-thc-semester 
party,  according  to  Thomas  C.  Shoff, 
counselor. 

The  party,  which  will  feature 
disco  music  by  While  Lightning  II, 
will  be  held  in  the  North  Campus 
lounge. 

"Students  on  the  main  campus 
are  welcome  to  attend  the  event,'.' 
Shoff  said. 


Coiilimed p'liii  Pane  *■■■ 
Yuckatanners  beat  Wild  Cats,  106-94, 
and    NAD's    won    by    forfeit    over 
Bombers. 

At  8  p.m.,  Dec.  I,  Giggers  won 
by  forfeit  over  Bouncers;  The  Ice  Men 
beat  Animals,  86-64,  and  76  'ers  won 
by  forfeit  over  Butter's  Boys. 

On  Tuesday,  Dec.  6,  Wild  Cats 
beat  Giggers,  83-61;  Yuckatanners 
beat  NAD'S,  73-62,  and  The  Ice  Men 
beat  76  'ers,  90-74. 


Raffle  winners 

announced 

by  Agribusiness  Club 

The  Agribusiness  Club  has  an- 
nounced the  winners  of  its  Nov.  18  raf- 
fle drawing,  according  to  Larry  A. 
Swartz,  agribusiness  student  from 
Mcchanicsburg  and  club  prcsidcni. 

The  winners  of  the  drawing  were 
first  prize  of  $60  to  Richard  Wheeler,  of 
Gillett;  second  prize,  a  screwdriver  set, 
10  Naomi  C.  Whcatlcy,  of 
Williamsport;  third  prize,  a  belt  buckle, 
10  Frank  Long,  of  Millmonl;  fourth 
pri/c,  a  filet  knife  to  Carol  Ycaglcy,  of 
Centre  Hall  and  fifth  prize,  a  $5_8ifl  cer- 
tificate, to  Dennis  F.  Ringling,  associate 
professor  of  forest  technology,  from 
Muncy. 


Sherlock  Holmes'  faithful  assistant 
Doctor  Watson's  first  name  was  John. 


The  five  colors  of  the  Olympic  rings 
are:  black,  blue,  red,  green,  and  yellow. 


Sil. 

Mod. 

Wed. 


Mon. 

Toe. 

Thor. 

Sil. 

T»e 

Thur. 

Sal. 


ind 
StI 
Sal. 


Men's  Basketball  Schedule 

DATE  OPPONENT  PL^CE 

Dec.  13  Lock  H»ven  University  JV  Home 

Dec.  17  MonlBomery  County  Communily  College  Home 

Dec.  19  Norlhamplon  Coonly  ACC  '^"'''.v 

Jan.  II  Lehigh  Counly  Communily  College  Home 

Jan.  14  Bucks  Counly  Communily  College  Ainiy 

Jan.  17  Norlhamplon  Counly  ACC  Home 

Jan.  20  Luiernc  Counly  Communily  College  Home 

Jan.  21  Delaware  Counly  Community  College  Home 

In.  n  CommooKy  College  of  Philadelphia  /tioiiy 

Jan.  30  Lock  Haven  University  JV  ^Irav 

Jan.  31  IVIonlgomery  Counly  Communily  College  Away 

Feb.  2  Communily  College  of  Philadelphia  Home 

Feb.  4  Lehigh  Counly  Communily  College  Away 

Feb.  7  Keystone  Junior  College  Home 

Feb.  9  P.S.U.  Schuylkill  Campus  Home 

Feb.  11  Bucks  Counly  Communily  College  Home 

Feb.  14  Lycoming  College  JV  Home 

Feb.  17  E.P.C.C.A.C. 

and  «'"' 

Feb  18  TournamenI  Away 

Feb  25  Stale  C  himpionship  p  s  (  (  J  (  A  (  Awa) 


TIME 

7  p.m. 
3  p.m. 

8  p.m. 

7  p.m. 
3  p.m. 

5  p.m. 
Sp.m. 
3  p.m. 

8  p.m. 

6  p.m. 
8  p.m. 
8  p.m. 
7:30  p.m. 
7:30  p.m. 
Sp.m. 

3  p.m. 

7  p.m. 

and 

TBA 

TBA 


PBL  members  lo  make  pick-up 

All  officers  and  members  of  Phi 
Beta  1  ambda  (PBL)  should  pick  up 
merchandise  which  ihey  sold  during 
the  group's  fund-raising  week  anytime 
tomorrow  through  Friday,  according 
l(r  Paul  W.  Goldfcdcr,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  business  administration  and 
PBL  adviser. 

Members  may  pick  up  the  mer- 
chandise in  the  PBL  office.  Room 
333,  Academic  Center. 

Lisa  M.  Wilcox,  computer 
science  student  from  CanKui,  is  chair- 
ing the  event  and  Paul  H.  Pauling, 
business  administration  student  from 
Montgomery  is  assisting. 

Name  changed 

The  name  of  the  dispensary, 
which  recently  was  moved  to  Room 
104,  Gymnasium,  has  been  changed 
to  Student  Health  Services,  according 
to  an  announcement  by  Donald  S. 
Shade,  director  of  financial  aid.  He 
noted,  loo,  that  the  nurse  is  on  duty 
from  8  a.m.  to  3:30  p.m.  and  may  be 
reached  by  calling  College  Extension 
224. 

Graduate  appointed 
assistant  director 

Melvin  B.  Billig  has  been-  ap- 
pointed assistant  director  of  physical 
plant  at  Lehigh  University. 

He  formerly  was  an  architectural 
drafting  instructor  at  Lehigh  County 
Vocaticnial-Technical  School.  In  ad- 
dition, he  owns  a  construction  and 
remodeling  business. 

Billig  has  an  associate's  degree  in 
architecture  from  The  Williamsport 
Area  Communily  College  and  a 
bachelor's  and  a  master's  degree  In 
education  from  Temple  University. 
He  is  certified  in  administration  and 
cooperative  education. 

Billig  and  his  wife,  Winnie,  live 
in  Whitehall,  Pa. 


jl5  percent  off  j 


I  Offer  only  valid  with  RIXWI.ARI. )  PRICED  inercliamlise   ■ 
Ubi^^^mi^  clip  &  save  ^bb^^imbi  J 


Lee 
Levi 


Adidas 
Etonic 


Jeans   ,,,        ,         Sneakers  ^ 

Wrangler  Converse 

Cliic  Puma 

WOOLRICH  brands  in  slock! 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williomsporf,  Ph.  322-1 1)2 

Mon. -Wed,  &  Sal.  9:30  10  S       Thurs.  &  Fri.  9:30  lo  9 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


,,  Williamsport 

litest  to  Academic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1321 

OPEN  7:50  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  tiiru  Friday 


Looking  for  a  nice,  clean, 

comfortable  room? 
Call  the  YWCA,  TODAY! 


*good  security 
'free  swimming 
*free  TV  (in  lounge) 


'Walking  distance  to 

WACC  &  downtown 

For  more  inforinalion,  CALL:  322-4637 

or  slop  in  lo  llie  YWCA 

al  815  W.  4th  St.,  Williamsport 


Validation  stickers 
for  student  ID 
available  this  week 

Validalion  slickers  for  sludcnl 
idcnlificaiion  cards  and  pictures  for 
idcnlificalion  cards  will  be  given 
ihroughoul  Ihis  week,  said  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiolli,  coordiiialor  of  inlratnural 
aihlclics  and  College  aclivilics. 

All  siudcnis  (full-lime  or  parl-iime) 
who  have  a  sludcnl  idcnlificalion  card 
may  pick  up  validalion  slickers  from  8 
a.m.  10  2  p.m.,  loday  ihrough  Ihis  Fri- 
day in  Room  108  of  I  he  Bardo  Gym. 
From  2  p.m.  lo  8  p.m.,  validalion 
slickers  may  be  picked  up  in  Room  102 
of  ihe  Bardo  Gym,  Mrs.  Frcmioiii  said. 

New  sludenls  enrolling  ihis 
semesier  eilhcr  full-lime  or  parl-limc 
may  gel  Ihcir  piciures  lakcn  for  idcn- 
lificalion cards  and  akso  pick  up  Ihcir 
validalion  slickers  from  2  p.m.  lo  8 
p.m.,  loday  Ihrough  ihis  Thursday  in 
Room  102  of  Ihe  Bardo  Gym,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli. 

She  added,  "All  sludenls  musi 
have  piciures  lakcn  al  Ihis  lime  because 
wiihoul  it  sludenls  cannol  parlicipale  in 
mosi  of  Ihe  College  aclivilics." 

"Sludenls  musi  have  idcnlificalion 
cards  validaied  for  Ihem  lo  be 
effcclivc,"  sircsscd  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

A  $10  fee  will  be  charged  lo  Ihosc 
sludenls  who  need  an  indcniificaliini 
card  replaced.  "Sludenls  musi  go  lo 
ihc  ialramnral  alhleilc  and  College  ac- 
livilics office  in  Ihe  Bardo  Gym  if  ihey 
need  a  new  idcnlificalion  card,"  .said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Drop/add  deadlines 
for  semester  listed 

Updalcd  informalion  about  drop-adds 
was  given  by  a  Records  Office  represen- 
lalive  lasl  week. 

Today,  Jan.  9  Ihrough  13  only, 
classes  may  be  dropped  and  added;  Ihe 
second  and  Ihird  weeks,  Jan.  16  Ihrough 
27,  drop  wiihoul  a  grade,  and  ihc 
finirlh  and  fiflh  weeks,  Jan.  30  Ihrough 
Feb.  10,  drops  wilh  W  grade. 


Happy  New  Year! 
Have  a  good  semester! 

From  the  SPOTLIGHT 

siudeni  records* 


IN  A  TWINKLE,  Sania  (somelimcs  known  as  Rulh  E.  Corson,  clerk)  (ook  over 
Ihe  Records  Office  just  before  Christmas.  (SPOTLIGHT pliolo  by  Lori  M.  Lane) 


Bookstore    extends 
hours;  also  open 
Saturday,  Jan.  14; 
procedure  is  same 

The  College's  Bookslore  will  use 
prelly  much  on  Ihe  same  procedure  as 
lasl  semesier  for  Ihe  beginning-of-the- 
semesler  demand,  according  lo  Mrs. 
Eleonore  R.  Holcomb,  Bookslore 
supervisor. 

Mrs.  Holcomb  suggests  that 
sludenls  go  lo  their  classes  first  and  be 
sure  of  what  books  to  buy,  then  come  to 
Ihc  Bookslore  and  preseni  their 
schedules.  "It  saves  the  .sludcnl  and  us 
a  lot  of  problems,"  said  Mrs.  Holcomb. 

The  bookslore  will  be  open  from  8 
a.m.  lo  8  p.m.,  Monday  Ihrough  Thurs- 
day, and  8  a.m.  lo  4:30  p.m.  on  Friday, 
for  Ihe  firsi  two  weeks  of  the  semesier. 
The  Bookslore  will  also  be  open  on 
Saturday,  Jan  14,  from  10  a.m.,  lo  1 
p.m.,  for  continuing  education  sludenls. 
■■■  Please  furii  lo  Page  3 


Spotlight 


Monday,  Jan.  9,  1984    •    Vol.  19, 
Williamspnrf  Area  Communily  College    • 


'**.  17    •    4  Pages 
Wtlliamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


Oregon  Hill  ski  trips  to  begin 
next  week;  run  until  Feb.  29 

Ski    trips    lo    Oregon    Hill    are  When  signing  up  in  Ihe  IM  Office, 

scheduled    every    Wednesday    evening    students  musi  tell  what  they  want  in- 


beginning  next  Wednesday,  Jan.  18  and 
ccnninuing  until  Feb.  29,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor 
of  miramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
livilics. 

All  sludenls  who  want  lo  go  on  Ihe 
trips  must  sign  up  first  in  Ihc  intramural 
athletics  and  College  aclivilics  office  in 
the  Bardo  Gym. 

The  bus  leaves  ihe  front  of  the 
Learning  Resources  Ccnler  (LRC)  al 
5:30  p.m.  and  returns  afier  Ihc  slopes 
close  al  10  p.m. 


Dr.  Cunning  speaks  lo  unemployed;  slory,  page  4 


luded  in  ihcir  trip,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli, 
The  fees  arc  as  follows:  lift  only, 
$7;  lift  and  lcss(nis,  SIO,  and  lift, 
lesscnis,  and  rcnials,  $15.  There  is  no 
fee  for  transportation. 

Sludenls  interested  in  lift  and  ren- 
tals only  may  conlaci  Mrs.  Fremiolli  for 
Ihe  special  rates  in  the  IM  Office  or  Ext. 
269. 

Students  inleresled  in  a  four  session 
package  (any  four  of  the  Wednesdays 
which  skiing  is  offered)  may  make  ar- 
rangements ihrough  Ihc  IM  Office.  The 
cost  will  be  $24  for  lifl  (nily  and  $44  for 
lift,  lessons,  and  rentals. 

Ski  trip  cancelled 

The  scheduled  ski  trip  lo  Oregon 
Hill  this  Wednesday  is  cancelled,  accor- 
ding lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinalor of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege aclivilics. 

Students  interested  in  going  on  Ihe 
ski  trips  may  sign  up  in  Ihe  intramural 
athletics  and  College  aclivilics  office  in 
the  Bardo  Gym. 

Coffeehouse  cancelled 

The  coffeehouse  sponsored  by  the 
Sludcnl  Transilicni  Commiltce  which 
was  scheduled  fr(nn  7  lo  10  p.m.,  this 
Thursday  is  cancelled,  according  lo 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator 
of  inlramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 


Used  book  sale" 
begins  today 

Phi  Bala  Lambda  (PBL)  will  be 
holding  ils  used  book  sale  beginning 
Jan.  9  Ihrough  17,  according  lo  Paul  H. 
Pauling,  computer  science  student  and 
club  president  from  Montgomery. 

Anyone  with  textbooks  Ihey  wisli 
10  sell  may  bring  them  lo  Room  333 
during  Ihe  lime  of  Ihc  sale,  he  said. 

At  the  club's  next  meeting,  the 
state  leadership  conference,  to  be  held 
April  6  through  8  at  the  Harrisburg 
Marriott  in  Harrisburg,  will  be  discuss- 
ed, Pauling  .said. 

The  first  meeting  of  Ihc  new 
semesier  will  also  include  a  report  on 
fund-raising  evenis  for  PBL,  added 
Pauling. 

The  time  of  Ihe  first  meeting  has 
not  yet  been  set. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau 

to  sponsor  Eastwood  flick 

next  Thursday  night 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau,  graphic  arts 
fraternity,  will  sponsor  the  movie, 
"Every  Which  Way  But  Loose".  The 
movie  will  be  shown  al  7:30  p.m.,  next 
Thursday,  Jan.  19  in  Ihc  Academic 
Cenicr  Auditorium,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinalor  of  in- 
lramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  admission  price  to  (he  movie  is 
$1.50,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Anyone  wishing  more  information  - 
may  contact  members  of  the  fraternity 
or  call  Ext.  404. 


2aSPOTLIGHTDMonday.  Jan.  9.  1984 

Records  Office  winner 
of  Holiday  Cheer  Contest 

The  overall  winner  of  ihc  Holiday 
Cheer  ConlesI  sponsored  by  Sigma  Pi 
Omega  was  I  he  Records  Office  of  Ihc 
Academic  Cenler,  according  lo  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli,  coordinalor  of  in- 
iramural  aihlelics  and  College  aciiviiics. 

The  following  sludenl  cnlry  win- 
ners arc  4lh  semester  Plumbing  and 
Healing,  mosl  unique,  and  Food  and 
Hospilalily,  merriesl. 

Group  cnlry  winners  include 
Educalional  Services/Library,  old 
fashioned;  Mailroom,  merriesl;  Finan- 
cial Aid,  mosl  allraclive,  and  Canlccn 
Corporaiion  (cafeleria),  mosl  unique. 

■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■iMM 

Artists  Unlimited 
to  meet  Jan.  17 

The  first  meeting  of  Artists 
Unlimited  for  the  Spring  semester  is  ten- 
tatively scheduled  for  Tuesday,  Jan.  17, 
at  12  p.m.,  according  lo  Patrick  D. 
•  "Murphy,  assistant  professor  of  advertis- 
ing an. 

They  will  meet  in  Room  5, 
Academic  Cenler. 

Items  on  the  agenda  will  be  the 
reporting  of  Christmas  card  sales  and 
discussion  of  fund  raising  plans  for  the 
Spring  semester. 

The  group  will  also  make 
preliminary  plans  for  a  trip  to  cither 
New  York  Cily  or  Washington,  D.C. 

Several  dubs  schedule 
meetings  for  this  week 

Four  College  clubs  are  planning 
meelings  during  the  first  week  of  the 
new  semester. 

Among  the  meetings  planned,  the 
Society  of  Manufacturing  and  Engineer- 
ing (SME)  will  hold  ils  regular  technical 
session  at  the  Williamsporl  Holiday  Inn 
Ihis  evening.  All  club  members  should 
attend  the  8  p.m.  session,  with  the  6:30 
p.m.  dinner  lo  precede  it.  Tonight's 
topic  will  be  the  bobbing  process  techni- 
que using  titanium  nitride  coalings. 

The  Alpha-Omega  Fellowship  will 
meet  tomorrow  nighl  at  7  p.m.  Weekly 
meetings  will  be  the  same  lime 
throughout  the  Spring  semester. 

The  Food  and  Hospilalily  Managc- 
menl  Student  Organization  (FHMSO) 
will  meet  Wednesday  from  3  lo  4  p.m. 
in  Room  105. 

Sigma  Pi  Omega  sorority  will  meet 
on  Thursday  at  4  p.m.  in  Room  105. 


Briar  House  wins  IM  bowling  league 


DECORATIONS  of  ail  sh;ipi-s  and 
sizes  added  In  the  Christmas  spiril. 
The  cafeleria  s(aff  and  Canteen  Cor- 
poraiion won  an  award  in  Ihe  Holiday 
Cheer  ConlesI  sponsored  by  (he  Sigma 
Pi  Omega  for  having  the  most  unique 
group  entry.  (SPOTLIGHT  plioli:  bv 
Liiri  M.  Lane) 


GINGERBREAD    HOUSES    in    the 

cafeteria  made  by  Lucy  A.  Twigg, 
chef,  were  raffled  off  before  Christmas 
vacatiim.  The  winners  were  Ray  F. 
Tyler,  associate  professor  of  business 
administration,  and  Vicki  Crist,  stu- 
dent. (SPOTLIGHT plwlo  by  Lori  M. 
Lane) 


Henry  Van  Dyke,  American 
Presbyterian  clergyman,  educator,  and 
author,  died  in  1933. 


Bookstore 


■■■  Contl/iued fnm  Page  I 

The  policy  regarding  refunds  is  that 
Ihe  books  must  be  returned  within  15 
days  free  from  nolcs  or  marks  of  any 
kind  olher  Ihan  textual  mailer.  Receipts 
must  be  returned  with  all  books  broughl 
back  10  avoid  returning  stolen  books, 
according  to  Mrs.  Holconib. 


SNOWMAN  made  of  popc<irn  by  Food 
and  Hospitality  students  extended 
Christmas  wishes  to  students  and  facul- 
ty. (SPOTLIGHT  i>/i,ii()  by  biii  M. 
Lane) 


In  last  semester's  intramural  bowl- 
ing league,  Briar  House  won  Ihc  learn 
honors  with  a  25-8  record  al  ABC 
Bowling  Lanes,  according  to  the  Lanes' 
managcmcni. 

The    final    intramural    bowling 
results  of  last  semester  are: 
Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  Briar  House  25        8 

2.  Alley  Cats  20        13 

3.  Destroyers  17        16 

4.  Bull  Spinners  16        17 

5.  Flinlsloncs  16        17 

6.  Metal  Men  15        18 

7.  Mihon  12        21 

8.  Dew  Crew  1 1        22 

Men's  high  single  game 
The  following  are  Ihe  trophy  win- 
ners       in        each        category. 
Men's  high  single  game 
Kirk    D.    Zohn,    air    condition- 
ing/relrigeration     sludenl     from 
Fredericksburg,  bowled  a  225. 
Women's  high  single  game 
Deni.se     M.     McNeil,     computer 
science    sludenl     from     Williamsporl, 
bowled  a  172. 

Men's  high  series 
Donald  E.  Pell  Jr.,  plumbing  and 


Sir  Henry  Racburn,  Scoilish 
painter,  was  born  in  1756  and  died  in 
1823. 


IM  bowling  to  begin 
tomorrow  at  ABC  Lanes 

The  intramural  bowling  league  at 
ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave. 
will  start  ils  new  league  al  4  p.m., 
tomorrow,  according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Frcmiolli,  coordinalor  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

There  will  be  four  persons  to  a 
team.  The  teams  may  consist  of  either 
men,  women,  or  coed. 

The  cost  will  be  $2.75  for  three 
games  and  the  shoes  arc  free. 

Students  may  go  to  the  lanes,  sign 
up  and  bowl  the  same  day. 

Any  persons  interested  in  more  in- 
formation may  ciinlacl  the  Lanes  at 
326-2885  and  ask  for  Patty. 


'Wildcats'  take 
championship 

The  Wildcats  won  the  intramural 
basketball  league  championship  against 
the  Yuckatanncrs  on  Thursday,  Dec. 
15.  The  Wildcats  won  86-52  and  70-66, 
according  to  records  provided  by  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  in- 
iraniural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

Games  leading  up  lo  the  final  two 
icams  arc  as  follows:  On  Tuesday,  Dec. 
6,  Wildcats  bcai  Giggers,  88-61; 
Yuckatanncrs  beal  NADs,  73-62,  and 
Icemen  beat  76'ers,  90-74. 

On  Thursday,  Dec.  8,  the 
Yuckatanncrs  beat  Bums,  98-85;  Icemen 
overpowered  WccHccs,  82-28,  and 
Wildcats  beat  Icemen,  102-68,  and 
Bums  won  via  forfeit  over  NADs. 

On  Wednesday,  Dec.  14,  Wildcats 
beat  Bums,  82-70,  lo  move  inio  the 
finals  against  the  Yuckatanncrs. 


heat  inn  student  from  Lvkcns,  bowled  a 
565. 

Women's  high  series 
Dcnisc  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
student  from  Cogan  Station,  bowled  a 
440. 

Men's  high  average 
Franklin     J.     Scber,     electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton,  had 
an  average  of  210. 

Women's  high  average 
Judy  A.  West,  clerical  .science  stu- 
dent    from     Montoursvillc,     had     an 
average  of  133. 

Most  improved  male 
Myles    S.    Murray,    construclion 
carpentry  sludenl  from  Wayne,  N.J., 
improved  his  average  by  10  pins. 
Most  Improved  female 
West  improved  her  average  by  six 
pins. 

IM  wrestling 
deadline 
next  Monday 

The  deadline  for  participants  lo 
turn  in  their  name,  weight,  and  local 
telephone  number  for  intramural  wrestl- 
ing is  al  noon,  next  Monday,  Jan.  16  in 
Ihc  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities office  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  inlramural  alhlctics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

A   pre-lournameni   clinic   will   be 
held  from  6:30  to  8:30  p.m.,  next  Mon- 
day, Jan.  16.     The  clinic  will  include 
wrestling  techniques  and  instruction. 
Practices  will  be  planned  at  Ihc  meeting. 

Any  persons  with  questions  concer- 
ning the  IM  wrestling  may  contact  Mrs. 
Fremiolli  in  Ihe  IM  office  in  the  Bardo 
Gym  al  Exi.  269. 


SPOTLIGHT 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published 
each  Monday  morning  of  Ihe 
academic  year,  except  for  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  journalism  and 
other  interested  students  of  The 
Williamsporl  Area  Community 
College.  Office:  Room  7, 
Academic  Center,  1005  W. 
Third  St.,  Williamsporl,  Pa. 
17701.  Telephone:  (717) 
326-3761. 

Opinions  expressed  are 
those  of  the  student  newspaper 
or  of  the  individual  writers  whose 
names  accompany  items.  Opi- 
nions do  not  reflect  official  opi- 
nion of  the  institution. 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a 
member  ol  Ihe  Columbia 
Scholastic  Press  Association  and 
a  First  Place  Winner  in  that 
organization's  most  recent 
evaluation. 

STAFF  THIS  ISSUE 

Annette  M.  Engel,  Richard  E. 
Kopp,  Lon  M.  Lane,  Thomas  H. 
Long.  Robert  W,  Minier,  Thomas 
F.  Montgomery,  Perry  D.  Penlz. 
and  Joan  L.  Thompson,  Faculty 
adviser:  Anthony  N.  Cillo. 


When  he's  ''on'\ 


SPOTLIGHTQMonday.  Jan.  9.  I984a3 


English  becomes  an  experience 


Cue  mike  I!    Music  down  3—2—1— 

ll's  "The  Dick  Sweeney  Hour"! 
This  hour-long  radio  show  is  dedicated 
10  a  professor  who  now  occupies  an  of- 
fice surrounded  by  bool(shelves  contain- 
ing bool(s  of  all  colors  of  ihe  rainbow. 
The  books  range  from  composilion  and 
speech  lo  poclry.  On  one  shelf  is  Ihis 
man's  favorite  coffee  mug,  his  brown 
derby  hat,  and  several  pictures  of  his 
family  which  include  his  wife  and  five 
children.  Dr.  Richard  M.  Sweeney  is  a 
professor  of  English  at  the  College. 
He's  a  tall,  slim  man  who  can  be  found 
most  afternoons,  dressed  casually  in 
dress  pants  and  a  dress  shirt  buttoned 
low  enough  to  lei  his  1-shirl  stick  out, 
reclining  in  his  office  chair  and  squin- 
ting through  oval  glasses. 

If  you  had  the  chance  to  be  super- 
visor of  your  plant  with  all  the  power 
connected  with  the  job,  would  you  step 
down  and  take  a  cut  in  pay  to  become  a 
full-time  teacher  in  the  classroom? 

The  man  here  with  us  today  did 
just  that!  Dr.  Sweeney  has  had  two  jobs 
during  his  12  years  at  the  College,  Divi- 
sion Director  of  the  Humanities  and 
Communication  Arts  and  full-time 
teacher.  The  title  of  Division  Director 
gave  Dr.  Sweeney  power  to  plan  and  get 
new  ideas  started. 

I  am  in  Dr.  Sweeney's  office  talk- 
ing to  him,  while  in  the  background  the 
sound  of  others  talking^  breaks  through 
our  conversation.  He  shares  an  ofTice 
with  six  other  faculty  members  who 
humorously  put  their  two  cents  in  by 


asking  why  he's  so  important  lo  get  an 

inlcrvicw? 
Cue  mike  2! 

I  was  Division  Director  from  1978 

lo  1981  and  being  in  the  office  meant  1 

had  influence  on  planning  which  was 
important  lo  me.  It  also  meant  that  I 
could  iry,  with  the  authority  of  the  title, 
to  go  and  start  new  ideas  such  as  "Your 
Own  Bag".  "Your  Own  Bag"  was 
designed  lo  bring  communication 
students  together  lo  meet  with  faculty  or 
someone  outside  Ihe  College  in  ihc  field 
of  communications.  Students  would  sit 
down  and  listen  lo  what  the  quest  had 
lo  say  and  then  ask  questions.  It  was 
entitled  "Your  Own  Bag"  because 
students  were  lo  bring  their  lunch  with 
them  and  eal  while  listening  and  talking. 

Things  like  "Your  Own  Bag"  were  lit- 
tle "extras",  bul  1  thought  we  had  a  lot 
to  offer.  I  really  enjoyed  thai  but  ihe 
main  thing  really  happens  in  ihc 
classroom. 

I  took  Ihe  first  full-time  teaching 
position  available  in  1982.  I  fell  that 
the  classroom  is  the  center  of  what  goes 
on  at  the  College.  I  now  teach  speech, 
technical  writing,  basic  English  and 
composition  II. 

I  hope  my  students  lake  somelhing 
with  them  when  they  leave  my 
classroom.  If  this  happens,  I've  done 
my  job. 

Another  thing  I  find  rewarding  in 
leaching  is  that  there  is  a  deadline  where 
we  say  stop  and  quil.  As  Division 
Director  you  plan  the  schedule  for  Ihis 


year  and  then  immedialcly  start  working 
on  the  one  for  next  year.  There's  no 
slopping  point.  Teaching  gives  me  the 
sense  of  completeness  and  accomplish- 
ment. I  couldn't  teach  writing  in  the 
director's  office.  I  could  plan  and  help 
people  teach  writing,  but  I  didn't  get  lo 
teach  the  "stuff"  myself.  I  really  miss- 
ed that,  so  I  took  the  first  classroom 
opening  available.  I  like  teaching  con- 
tent instead  of  doing  projecls. 

Cue  mike  1! 

Dr.  Sweeney  grew  up  in  La 
Grange,  Illinois,  a  suburb  of  Chicago 
and  wenl  to  Wabash  College  in  Indiana 
where  he  gol  a  BA  in  English  in  1957. 
After  graduating  from  Wabash,  Dr. 
Sweeney  let  himself  be  drafted  into  the 
army  for  two  years  because  he  felt  he 
had  had  a  childhood  that  was  too  pro- 
tected. When  he  finished  his  time  in  the 
army  in  El  Paso,  Texas,  he  wenl  to 
Brown  Universily  in  Providence,  Rhode 
Island.  There  he  began  working  on  his 
eraduate  studies  towards  his  MA  and 
PHD.  In  1964  he  left  Brown,  but  kept 
working  on  his  doctorate  and  finally 
received  it  in  1969.  Dr.  Sweeney  taught 
at  Wayne  State  University  in  Detroit 
when  he  left  Brown  in  1964.  He  Ihcn 
left  Wayne  Slale  in  1971  and  came  to 
the  College. 
Cue  mike  2! 

I  feel  I  lived  a  protected  childhood 
because  the  school  1  wenl  to  was  a  very 
expensive  school  system.  All  Ihc 
students  were  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
ministers,  teachers;  and  other  people  of 


wealthy  and  professional  occupations. 
Everyone  looked  al  what  you  did.  I 
never  really  noticed  il  while  in  school, 
bul  once  I  was  oul  of  school  I  noliced  il 
right  away.  I  was  the  son  of  a  teacher, 
bul  we  didn't  have  much  money.  We 
weren't  poor  enough  that  I  had  to  go 
out  and  try  lo  supporl  Ihe  family,  bul 
on  Ihe  olher  side,  we  weren't  rich 
enough  lo  travel.  I  guess  I  missed  oul 
on  a  lot  of  experiences  and  thought  Ihe 
army  would  help.  I  started  working  at 
13  setting  bowling  pins  in  a  bowling 
alley.  I  also  ushered  at  a  movie  theatre 
and  delivered  for  a  drug  store. 
Cue  mike  1! 

An  example  of  the  interest  and 
devotion  this  man  has  for  the  field  of 
writing  and  his  students  was  shown  this 
summer  when  he  took  a  vacation  to 
Vancouver,  British  Columbia  and 
several  other  cities  in  the  West.  Dr. 
Sweeney  took  time  oul  from  visiting 
friends  and  swimming  lo  do  research  at 
the  Universily  of  British  Columbia 
library  for  the  technical  writing  program 
at  the  College.  At  ihis  library  he 
gathered  information  about  the 
technical  writing  programs  of  all  the  col- 
leges in  the  United  States  and  Canada. 

Dr.  Sweeney  now  leans  back  in  his 
oftice  chair.  Weaving  through  his  hair 
is  a  giganlic,  green,  jungle-like  plant 
with  a  plastic  ape  hanging  from  a 
branch.  "The  Dick  Sweeney  Hour"  is 
no  longer  heard  at  ils  regular  hour,  bul, 
i(  can  be  heard  any  day,  15  hours  a 
week,  Monday  ihrough  Friday,  in  ihe 
classrooms  of  the  College. 


Student  ID  to  replace  bus  passes 

Bus  passes  for  the  Williamsport  bus  will  no  longer  exist  because  of  the  new  stu- 
dent identification  cards.  The  identification  card  will  lake  the  place  of  the  bus 
passes,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 

The  Williamsport  Bureau  of  Transportation  offers  these  bus  rides  to  the  Col- 
lege's full-time  students  only.  Part-time  students  cannol  use  the  idenlificalion  cards 
as  bus  passes,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

The  idenlificalion  cards  will  designate  part-time  students  from  full-time 
students  because  of  Ihe  validation  stickers. 

A  two-week  grace  period  will  be  observed  by  the  Williamsport  Bureau  of 
Transportation  in  which  they  will  take  bus  passes  for  Ihc  ride. 

As  of  Jan.  23,  any  existing  bus  passes  will  be  invalid  and  any  identification 
card  which  is  not  validated  cannot  be  u.sed,  Mrs.  Fremiolli  said. 

Anyone  needing  informalion  about  bus  pas.ses  may  conlaci  the  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities  office  in  the  Bardo  Gym  or  check  the  bulletin  board 


on  the  first  fioor  of  the  Bardo  Gym. 


MTH  201  Understandable 

Slalislics 

(second  edition) 

BIO  113  Eiemenls  of 

Biological  Science 

(third  edilioni 

ENG  202  Public  Speaking 

(second  edition) 

SOC  111  Sociology, 

an  Inlroducllon 
(Estileman  and  Castiton) 

Philosophy         and         the 
Human  Condition 

CALL:  Totn  Kirol/327-9271 


Bulletin  board  notices 
must  be  cleared 
through  the  IM  Office 

Bulletin  boards  are  located 
throughout  the  campus  and  nothing 
■should  be  posted  on  them  unless 
cleared  through  the  IM  Office,  accor- 
ding lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

Anyone  with  rider  needed  and  rides 
needed  inftirmalion  may  give  them  to 
the  IM  Office  and  il  will  ihen  be  posted, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Housing  informalion  can  be  ob- 
tained in  the  Adiuissions  Oftlcc,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 


Men's  basketball  team 
to  play  at  home 
Wednesday  night  at  7 

The  men's  Wildcat  basketball  team 
continues  its  season  with  a  home  game 
against  Lehigh  County  Community  Col- 
lege al  7  p.m.,  Ihis  Wednesday,  accor- 
ding lo  the  schedule. 

The  Wildcats'  next  game  is  al  3 
p.m.,  Ihis  Saturday  at  Bucks  County 
Community  College,  Newtown. 

Open  gym  begins  today 

Open  gym  will  begin  again  today 
and  continue  throughout  the  week,  ac- 
cording lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

The  dales  and  times  for  open  gym 
are  as  follows:  Today.  6:.30  to  10  p.m.; 
tomorrow,  6:30  to  10  p.m.;  this 
Wednesday,  4  l(>  6  p.m.,  and  this 
Thursday,  8  to  10  p.m.,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiolli. 

Open  gym  is  open  lo  all  students  of 
the  College  with  an  identification  card. 
Various  athletic  activities  including 
volleyball,  baskclball,  and  tabic  tennis 
can  be  played  in  the  Bardo  Gym  during 
open  gym  times. 


The  color,  red,  is  a  symbol  of  hap- 
piness in  some  countries. 


SPOTLIGHT 

positions  filled 

Selection  for  SPOTLIGHT  staff 
positions  has  been  made  for  Spring 
semester. 

According  to  Anthony  N.  Cillo, 
associate  professor  of  journalism  and 
SPOTLIGHT  adviser,  the  selection  for 
posilicnis  is  made  each  semester  in  order 
10  provide  sludenls  with  more  diver- 
sified experience. 

The  following  selections  have  been 
made,  he  said. 

Joan  L.  Thompson,  managing 
editor. 

Thomas  F.  Montgomery,  produc- 
tion supervisor. 

Annette  M.  Engel,  composilion 
manager. 

Gisela  D.  Grassley,  advertising 
manager. 

Lori  M.  Lane,  sports  editor. 

Perry  D.  Pentz,  editorial  page 
editor, 

Thomas  H.  Long,  adminislralive 
affairs  editor. 

Mary  L.  Pease,  photography  editor 
and  distribution  manager. 

Kay  M.  Frace,  student  affairs 
editor. 

Barbi  L.  Chilson,  photo- 
mechanical lechnicinii. 


4DSPOTllGHTnMond«>,  Jin.  »,  1»M 

'Creative  Kitchen' 
returns  next  week 

The  "Crealive  Kilchen"  sponsored 
by  (he  Food  and  Hospilalily  cirriculum 
of  the  College,  will  relurn  this  semesler, 
according  lo  Mrs.  Ann  R.  Miglio,  in- 
siruclor  of  food  service  and  hospilalily.  ji 

"Theme"  dinners  will  be  ihe  molif, 
as  in  previous  years,  highlighiing  cuisine 
from  differenl  counlrics,  added  Mrs. 
Miglio. 

The  dinners,  lo  be  held  on  Mon-  | 
days,  Wednesdays,  and  Thursdays,  will 
cosi  $3  per  person,  said  Mrs.  Miglio, 
wilh  an  a  la  carle  dcsscrl. 

All  menus  for  Ihe  mcal.s,  which  are 
scheduled  lo  begin  ncxi  Monday,  are 
managed  by  Food  and  Hospilalily 
sludenls. 


T 

l¥«Wft!«?SS«i!i¥K«»*%!!»%S»%^ 

ft::¥S¥Sa:S!:jJS¥::ft¥«8S»SS 

1 

Men' 

s  Basketball  Schedule 

DAY 

DATE 

OPPONENT 

PUCE 

TIME               1 

'4 

Wed. 

Jan.  II 

Lehiiib  Connlj  Commaniljr  Colleje 

Homt 

7  p.m.             1 

i 

Sal. 

Jan.  14 

Bocks  Counly  ComoiiinM)'  Colltfje 

Away 

S  p.m.            ^ 

i 

Tse. 

Jan.  17 

Nortbamplon  Connly  ACC 

Hume 

S  p.m.            ^ 

Fri. 

Jan.  2« 

Uzerne  Connly  Commonily  Collqte 

Home 

Sp.m.            g 

•:•: 

Sal. 

Jan.  21 

Delaware  Counly  Commonily  Coilete 

Home 

3  p.m.            ^ 

Fri. 

Jan.  27 

Commonily  College  of  Philadelphia 

Awav 

1p.m.            1 

g 

Mon. 

Jan.  30 

Lock  Haven  University  JV 

Away 

6  p.m.            ^ 

8 

T»e. 

Jan.  31 

Monljomerj  Coonly  Commonily  Collef;e 

Away 

S  p.m.            ^ 

Thur. 

Feb.  2 

Commonily  College  of  Philadelphia 

Home 

S  p.m.            "^ 

is 

Sal. 

Feb.  4 

Lehiih  Counly  Commonily  ColieKe 

Away 

7: 30  p.m.         ^ 

1 

Tni 

Feb.  7 

Keystone  Junior  College 

Home 

7:30  p.m.         | 

g 

Thur. 

Feb.  » 

P.S.U.  Schuylkill  Campus 

Home 

8  p.m.            ^ 

g 

Sal. 

Feb.  II 

Bucks  County  Commonily  Collefte 

Home 

3  p.m.             f), 

1 

Toe 

Feb.  14 

Lycoming  College  JV 

Home 

s 

Fri. 

Feb.  17 

E.P.C.C.A.C. 

9. 

and 

and 

and 

and                 % 

1 

Sal. 

Feb.  18 

Tournament 

Away 

T.B.A.             :^ 

1 

Sal. 

Feb  2S 

Stale  Championship  p  s  (  (  J  (  A  ( 

Altai 

TBA        ■;' 

Over  60  persons  attend 
session  for  unemployed 


Omrlcv  Oillm  Inlmmulmu  Ofur 

Over  60  persons  looking  for 
answers  lo  Iheir  currcnl  unemploymeni 
silualion  allended  ihe  oricnialion  ses- 
sion of  "Educalional  Opporlunilics  of 
Ihe  Unemployed." 

The  program  sponsored  by  Ihe 
College  is  dircelcd  al  unemployed  per- 
sons residing  in  Ihe  College's  sponsoring 
school  dislricls. 

The  program  began  because  Col- 
lege presidcnl  Dr.  Robcrl  L.  Brcudcr 
saw  a  need  "lo  gel  involved  in  Ihe  pro- 
blems of  Ihe  unemployed,"  according  lo 
Dr.  Charles  Cunning,  who  is  serving  as 
projcci  direclor. 

Dr.  Cunning,  associale  dean  of 
educalional  services,  is  being  assisted  by 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  direclor  of 
counseling,  career  developmeni  and 
placcmcni. 

Bolh  men  were  lo  address  Ihosc 
who  allended  ihe  oricnialion  session  on 
Wednesday,  Dec.  14,  in  Ihe  Academic 
Cenler  Audilorium  (ACC). 

In  his  welcoming  address  lo  par- 
licipanls.  Dr.  Breuder  called  (he  effecls 
of  llie  area's  unemploymeni  "Iragic" 
and  said  the  College  is  conlinuing  iis 
search  lo  find  "innovalive  ways  of  being 
able  lo  help  people." 

"Educalional  Opporlunilics  of  Ihe 
Unemployed"  was  lo  have  goiien 
underway  Dec.  19  wilh  a  Iwo-wcek 
career  exploration  session  which  would 
resull  in  parlicipanls  developing  a  wril- 
len  career  plan. 

Dr.  Cunning  explained  Ihal  par- 
licipanls may  go  in  any  one  of  ihree 
dircclions.  They  may  choose  lo  enlcr  a 


program  lo  learn  how  lo  markel  Iheir 
existing  skills;  they  may  enroll  in  a 
developmental  program  lo  develop  sup- 
port skills  (such  as  skills  in  math  and 
reading)  lo  prepare  for  future  enroll- 
ment in  a  College  program,  or  they  may 
choose  lo  enter  one  of  the  College's  55 
career  training  programs  to  develop  new 
.skills. 

However,  enrollment  in  any  of  the 
College's  programs  will  depend  on 
availability.  Some  programs  may 
already  be  filled  for  Ihe  coming 
semester. 

Arrangmcnis  will  be  made  for  Ihe 
participant's  share  of  tuition  costs. 
However,  in  order  to  be  eligible,  they 
must  reside  in  a  sponsoring  district  and 
be  eligible  for  sponsorship. 

The  program  does  have  the  ap- 
proval of  the  Bureau  of  Employnieni 
Security  and  parlicipanls  will  remain 
eligible  for  unemploymeni  compensa- 
tion. However,  they  also  must  remain 
available  for  work  and  must  accept 
employment  if  il  is  offered. 

Of  those  who  apply  for  the  pilot 
program,  20  will  be  accepted  into  the 
session  which  was  to  begin  later  in 
December.  Based  on  the  findings  from 
this  initial,  pilot  session,  the  College  will 
offer  similar  sessions  in  the  future. 

Those  who  allended  Ihe  orientation 
session  were  lo  have  been  shown  a 
videotape  presentation  on  programs  of- 
fered by  the  College  and  to  have  their 
questions  addressed  by  College  staff. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 

1100  W,  Third  SI  ,  Williamsport 


/Nexl  10  Academic  Cen/erl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1321 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.  'til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


Stickers  needed         Band  meets  Thursdays 

to  park  on  campus 


All  vehicles  which  are  parked  on 
College  parking  areas  must  be  registered 
al  the  Security  Office,  fool  of  Park 
Street,  according  to  Lawrence  P. 
Smeak,  supervisor  of  security. 

New  stickers  are  required  only  by 
incoming  students  and  by  those  who 
have  acquired  a  differencl  vehicle  than 
Ihe  one  registered  last  semester,  Smeak 
said. 

Slickers  issued  lo  vehicles  registered 
in  1983  will  remain  valid  until  Aug.  31, 
he  noted. 


The  College's  Wildcat  Band  will  be 
meeting  on  Thursdays  from  5:30  to  7 
p.m.  in  the  Academic  Cenler 
Audilorium,  according  to  James  B. 
Shaw,  assistant  professor  of  physics  and 
band  adviser. 

Any  sludenls,  faculty,  or  staff  in- 
terested in  joining  Ihe  jazz  band  are 
welcome  to  attend  these  meetings. 

Those  unable  lo  attend  the 
meetings  may  reach  Shaw  in  the  science 
trailer,  located  on  the  west  side  of  Ihe 
administration  building.  He  may  also 
be  reached  al  College  Ext.  367.  added 
Shaw. 


GOOD  BEER  at  an 

excellent  price! 


Available  now  at 
^    service  W§ 

(•/BEVERAGE   CO.     ^^ 

419-421  Fitlh  Ave.  •  Williamsporl,  Pa.  •  717/323-3237 


Skiing  trips  now 
through  February 

Ski  trips  lo  Oregon  Hill  arc 
scheduled  every  Wednesday  evening 
beginning  this  Wednesday  and  continu- 
ing until  Feb.  29,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

All  students  who  want  tii  go  on  the 
trips  must  sign  up  first  in  the  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities  office, 
Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 

The  bus  leaves  the  front  of  the 
Learning  Resources  Center  (LRC)  at 
5:30  p.m.  and  returns  after  the  slopes 
close  at  10  p.m. 

When  signing  up  in  the  IM  Office, 
students  must  tell  what  they  want  in- 
cluded in  their  trip,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  fees  are  as  follows:  lift  only, 
$7;  lift  and  lessons.SlO  and  lift,  lessons, 
and  rentals,  $15.  There  is  no  fee  for 
transportation. 

Students  interested  in  lift  and  ren- 
tals only  may  contact  Mrs.  Fremiotti  for 
the  special  rates. 

Students  interested  in  a  four  session 
package  (any  four  Wednesdays  which 
skiing  if  offered)  may  make  ar- 
rangements through  the  IM  Office.  The 
cost  will  be  $24  for  lift  only  and  $44  for 
■■■  Please  turn  lo  Page  S 


A  SOLARIUM  surrounds  Ihe  eating  area  in  the  new  Lifelong  Education  Center. 

ISPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Mary  L  Pease/ 

"Spotlight" 


Monday,  Jan.  It.  1984    •    Vol.  19,  No.  18    •    8  Paees 
Williamsporl  Area  Commonily  College    •    Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


^    Distinguished 
Teacher  Award 
nomination  forms 
now  available 

Nominations  for  Ihe  Distinguished 
Teacher  Award  will  be  given  this  week, 
with  nominating  forms  available  starting 
today  or  tomorrow,  according  to  Dr. 
Robert  G.  Bowers,  executive  assistant 
for  internal  affairs. 

Students  may  fill  out  these  forms  lo 
nominate  their  choice  of  teacher  for  this 
award.  The  forms  may  be  found  at 
various  spots  around  Ihe  campus,  in- 
cluding the  Learning  Resouces  Center, 
the  transportation  division  office,  the' 
intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities office  in  the  gymnasium,  the 
Center  for  Lifelong  Education,  the  in- 
formation center,  and  Dr.  Bowers'  of- 
fice. Room  207  of  the  administration 
building. 

These  forms  may  also  be  found  at 
the  Earth  Science  Campus,  the  North 
Campus,  and  the  Aviation  Campus,  ad- 
ded Dr.  Bowers. 

Deadline  to  return  the  nominations 
is  March  1,  and  may  be  taken  lo  Dr. 
Bowers'  office. 


Nearly  $10,000  awarded 
in  College  scholarships 
to  46  students  here 


College  enters  agreement 
to  formally  transfer  credits 

o,ii,:,y,j„iinrj«iM«win:i  (#i^  (j^„(  ^^g  (,gj  fgrncd  an  associate  of  arts 

The  College  has  entered  into  its  se-    degree  in  the  general  studies  program  at 


Omriesy  Cnlleae  Injiirmilon  Office 

Nearly  $10,000  in  scholarship^  has 
been  awarded  to  46  students  of  the  Col- 
lege. Scholarships,  in  Ihe  amount  of 
$200  each,  were  given  by  the  College  to 
second-year  students. 

Students  receiving  scholarships 
were  iwminalcd  by  faculty  and  division 
directors  on  the  basis  of  superior 
academic  achievement  and  service  lo  the 
College  and  fellow  sludeius.  A 
minimum,  cumulative  grade  point 
average  of  3.0  was  required  for  n(m)ina- 
lion. 

Awards  were  made  out  of  llic  Col- 
lege's General  Scholarship  Fund  which 
is  adminislcrcd  by  the  Financial  Aid  Of- 
fice. 

Checks  were  mailed  lo  sludcnis  on 
Dec.  22. 

Sludcnis  receiving  1983-84 
'Vjllianispiiri  Area  Community  College 
awards  include  Jon  Pcrcival,  of  Canloii 
RD  I,  acmmling;  Eli/abclli  Hcrriil. 
323  Rural  Ave,  Williamsporl,  business 
niaiiagcniciil;  Charles  Gregory  3rd,  of 
441  Railroad  St.,  Bloomsbtirg,  com- 
puter science  Icchiiology;  Carlcnc 
Gailhcr,  of  Jersey  Shore  RD  2.  retail 
inanagcincnl. 

Dayna  GeisI,  of  Bcavcrlown, 
secretarial  science;  John  Foniwall,  of 
Northumberland  RD  I,  air  coiidilioning 
and  rcfrigeralion;  Wayne  Hariicr,  of 
Milton,  air  condilioiiing  and  rcfrigera- 
lion; Jeffrey  Allen,  283  Federal  Ave, 
Williamsport,  archiicclural  technology. 


Isabella  St.,  Williamsporl,  archileclural 
technology;  Dale  Myers,  of  Muncy  RD 
I,  carpentry  and  building  conslruction 
technology;  Kennelh  Miller,  of  Mon- 
loursville  RD  4,  carpentry  and  building 
cj'nslruclion  technology;  Dennis 
Ncarhood,  of  Winburne  RD  2,  con- 
slruclion  carpentry. 

Daniel  Bair,  of  Hughcsville  RD  2, 

conslruction  carpentry;  Dennis  Rosalo. 

■■■  Please  turn  lo  Page  6 


cond  formal  articulation  agreement  with 
an  area  institution. 

On  Jan.  1,  1984,  the  College 
entered  an  agreement  with  Lock  Haven 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  according 
to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  presi- 
dent. In  August  1983,  Ihe  College  sign- 
ed a  similar  agreement  with  Mansfield 
University  of  Pennsylvania 


the  College  is  assured  admission  to  Lock 
Haven  University  and  junior-level 
-standing  credit  for  courses  of  study 
completed  at  the  College." 

For  admission  lo  Lock  Haven 
University,  students  will  be  required  to 
earn  at  least  a  2.0  overall  average  on  a 
four-point  scale.  Students  from  the 
College  will  be  eligible  to  transfer  at  any 


The  agreement  between  Ihe  College    time  lo  Lock  Haven  University 


and  the  university  stales  that  "the  stu 


Alsi 


TALKING  ABOUT  Ihe  old  semester  and  preparing  for  the  new  one  are  word 
processing  students  Helga  A.  Miosi,  left,  of  Ralston,  and  Karen  F.  Bozman,  of 


Roger   Williams  Jr.,    1234  Forksville.   /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


College  students  who  request 
transfer  lo  Lock  Haven  University  prior 
to  completion  of  the  associate  in  arts 
degree  in  the  general  studies  program 
will  normally  be  accepted  at  Ihe  univer- 
sity if  the  part  of  Ihe  program  completed 
at  the  College  parallels  Bachelor  of  Arts 
Degree  requirements  at  the  university. 

Since  the  university  also  en- 
courages transfer  of  qualified  College 
students  from  career  and  certificate  pro- 
grams, the  student  who  has  completed 
an  associate  of  applied  arts  or  associate 
of  applied  science  degree  in  a  career 
program  at  the  College  is  entitled  to  ap- 
ply for  admission  to  Lock  Haven 
University  and  for  evaluation  of  courses 
for  which  transfer  credit  is  requested. 

Credit  earned  at  or  transferred 
from  the  College  will  be  limited  lo  half 
the  baccalaureate  degree  requirements 
at  Lock  Haven  University;  students 
should  transfer  no  more  than  64  credit 
hours. 

If    limitations    on    enrollment 

become  necessary  in  any  upper-division 

Lock  Haven  University  program,  the 

■■■  Please  lurn  lo  Page  5 


^nSPOTLIGHTOMonday.  Jin.  16.  1984 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers... 

While  I  am  nol  what  you  call  a  "religious  lanalic".  I  was  nevetlheless.  a  bil 
upset  by  James  Morrissey's  article  Ttie  very  idea  of  asking  Santa  Claus  to  teed 
the  hungry,  heal  the  sick,  and  free  the  oppressed  appals  me  To  add  insult  to  in- 
jury, he  adds.  "I  know  you  are  the  only  person  who  could  do  this  "  I  leel  sorry  lor 
Jim  it  he  is  wailing  lor  Santa  Claus  to  help  any  ol  us 

Perhaps  the  solution  to  the  question  at  the  top  ol  page  1 2  can  be  found  by 
reexamining  our  reasons  lor  the  season.  If  we  worship  the  almighty  dollar.  Santa 
Claus  and  Frosty  the  Snowman  then  we  are  not  going  to  have  the  real  meaning  of 
Christmas 

While  many  Christians  realize  that  the  actual  dale  of  Christ's  birth  is  not 
known.  Dec.  25  is  the  generally  accepted  date  lor  celebration 

This  date  may  have  been  selected  because  the  early  Christian's  wanted  a 
time  that  coincided  with  the  Roman  Feast  days  (saturnalia).  But  (or  whatever 
reason,  Christmas  was  not  created  (or  Santa  Claus.  nor  should  it  be  celebrated 
for  Santa  Claus 

What  happened  to  Christmas''  Good  question!  We  have  tried  so  hard  to 
grant  Ireedom  ol  religion  to  every  sect  and  religion  that  we  have  ended  up  with 
Ireedom  from  religion  and  we  have  generations  growing  up  thinking  Sania  Claus 
is  Lord. 

■^ours  truly. 

June  Young 
Computer  sr^ience  student  Irom  South  Williamsport 

A  message  from  SGA... 

The  purpose  ol  tne  SluOeni  Govemmeni  Associaiion  ol  the  College  is  to  et- 
leclively  represent  the  student  body  in  all  policies  and  aciivilies  which  affect  the 
'student  body  and  to  provide  guidance  for  the  student's  growth  both  as  a  citizen 
and  as  an  individual  We  show  concern  for  Ihe  educational,  personal,  social  and 
cultural  development  ol  Ihe  siudnel  as  well  as  provide  programs  that  enhance 
(that  development  The  students'  physical  safety,  both  inside  and  outside  of  the 
classroom,  along  with  quality  ol  inslruction  are  two  areas  of  concern  for  the  Slu- 
Ident  Government  Association  fvlainlaining  and  improving  ihe  repuialion  and  ltie 
environment  of  the  College  are  vital  for  Ihe  enlhusiaslic  represerilalion  ol  the  Col- 
tege  on  campus,  in  the  community  and  in  Ihe  media  We  desire  to  maintain  a 
(strong  relationship  among  our  sludenls.  faculty  and  staff  through  participation  in 
the  College's  governance  and  decision-making  processes 

Student  Transition  Committee 


Area  high  school  students  win 
'Mechanical  Drafting  Contest' 


SPOTLIGHT 
Monday,  Jan.  16,  1964    -    Vol.  19,  No.  16 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  each  Monday  morning  of  the 
academic  year,  except  for  College  vacations,  by  journalism  and  other  in- 
terested students  of  The  Williamsporl  Area  Community  College 

Ollice;  Room  7,  Academic  Center.  1005  W.  Third  St.,  Williamsporl, 
Pa.  17701.   Telephone:  (717)326-3761.  Extension  221. 


Opinions  expressed  are  those  of  the  student  newspaper  or  of  those 
whose  names  accmpany  items.  Opinions  do  not  rellect  ollicial  opinion  ol 
the  institution. 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  member  ol  Ihe  Columbia  Scholaslic  Press 
Associalior)  and  a  FirsI  Place  Winner  in  Ihal  organUalion's  mosi  recent 
evalualion. 


Joan  L.  Thompson 

Managing  Editor 

Lori  M.  Lane 

Spoffs  Editor 

Thomas  F   t^^ontgomery 

Production  Supervisor 

Thomas  H   Long 

Administrative  Allairs  Editor 

Gisela  D.  Grassley 

Advertising  Manager 

Gregory  W.  Hull 

Sen/Of  Stall  Writer 


\  STAFF 

Perry  D   Pentz 
Editorial  Page  Editor 

Ivlary  L  Pease 

Photography  Editor 

Annette  M.  Engel 

Composition  Manager 

Kay  M.  Frace 

Student  Allairs  Editor 

Barbi  L.  Chilson 

Photomechanical  technician 

Ivlurray  J.  Hanlord 

Stall  Artist 


REPORTERS/STAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Richard  E.  Kopp.  Donna  Ivl  Barnelt,  (Vlarcy  L.  Card  Kathleen  R 
Foreman,  Kathryn  M,  Gilbert,  Robert  O.  Hawk,  Shawn  W  Heverly 
Rodney  D.  Hill,  Lori  L.  Holland.  Robert  W.  Ivlinier.  Kathy  A  Ivleixel  Anne 
T,  lyioratelli.  James  K   Mornssey,  IVIark  S,  Schwanke,  Sandra  R  Taylor 

Faculty  adviser:  Anthony  N   Cillo. 


Cauriet,  Cnllete  In/imiman  Ojficc 

,  High  school  students  rrom  area 
schools  were  winners  in  Ihe  firsi  annual 
Mechanical  Drafting  Conlesl  held  at  Ihe 
College  on  Tuesday,  Dec.  20. 
Participaling  sludenls,  ninth,  tenth, 
lllh,  and  I2lh  graders,  came  from  the 
high  schools  sponsoring  Ihe  Secondary 
Vocalional  Program  at  the  College. 
Three  awards  were  given  at  each  level. 
Ninlh  grade  winners  were  Thomas 
Russell,  Montgomery  High  School, 
Montgomery,  first;  Roberl  Cox,  Jersey 
Shore  High  School,  Jersey  Shore,  se- 
cond; Michael  Tubbs,  Williamsporl 
Area  High  School,  Cogan  Station, 
third. 

Tenth  grade  winners  included 
Steven  Diehl,  Warrior  Run  High 
School,  Turbotville,  first;  lirnolhy  Cer- 
vinsky,  Jersey  Shore  High  School, 
lersey  Shore,  second;  Robert  Giniewski, 


Warrior  Run  High  School,  Watson- 
town,  third  place. 

Junior  winners  were  Rod  Strickler. 
Warrior  Run  High  School,  Walson- 
lown,  first;  John  LaRoche,  Warrior 
Run  High  School,  Danville,  second; 
Todd  Golden,  Monloursville  High 
School,  Williamsporl,  third. 

Winning  seniors  included  Renee 
Blakeney,  Warrior  Run  High  School, 
Turbotville,  first;  David  Miller,  Jersey 
Shore  High  School,  Jersey  Shore,  se- 
cond. Jay  Dawson,  Jersey  Shore  High 
School,  Jersey  Shore,  third  place. 

First  place  winners  received  draf- 
ting equipment  while  second  place  win- 
ners received  $5  each  and  third  place 
winners  were  presented  with  certificates. 

Students  enrolled  in  the  Secondary 
Vocational  Programs  at  the  College 
helped  with  this  contest  sponsored  by 
the  Secondary  Vocalional  division. 


Courses  in  specific  fields  to  begin; 
offered  by  Lifelong  Education  division 


Production  Sta<(  This  Issue 

Donna  IVI.  Barnett,  Gisela  D.  Grassley,  Shawn  W.  Heverly,  and  Mark 
S.  Schwanke. 


A  number  of  courses  which  meet 
the  needs  of  individuals  in  specific  fields 
will  begin  this  semester  offered  by 
specialized  technical  education,  a  special 
service  for  Lifelong  Education  division 
of  the  College.  Programs  are  offered 
both  at  the  client's  facility  and  at  the 
College,  scheduling  is  based  on  clienl's 
needs. 

Digital  Electronics  One,  a 
preparatory  course  for  microprocessing 
and  programmable  logic  control,  will  be 
taught  on  Tuesdays  from  Jan.  17  to 
May  I  at  the  main  campus.  Inslrudion 
will  cover  how  to  use  digital  electronics 
in  residential,  commercial,  and  in- 
dustrial applications.  Topics  include 
basic  logic  gates,  counters,  timers, 
displays,  memories  and  converters. 

Electric  Motor  Conlrol  Two  is 
designed  for  induslrial  personnel  desir- 
ing to  learn  the  more  complex  wiring 
schemes  involved  in  motor  controlling 
operations.  Participants  must  have 
completed  Motor  Control  One  or  have 
equivalent  industrial  experience.  Topics 
of  instruction  include  timing  circuits, 
latching  circuits  and  ladder  diagrams. 
This  advanced  course  will  be  taught  for 
16  Wednesdays,  Jan.  18  to  May  2,  7  to 
10  p.m.,  on  the  main  campus. 

Electronics  Troubleshooting, 
designed  especially  for  the  industrial 
maintenance  person,  will  be  taught  for 
eight  weeks,  on  Wednesdays,  Jan.  18  to 
March  7,  on  the  main  campus.  The 
course  will  improve  the  participants 
ability  to  locale  problems  in  an  elec- 
tronic circuit.  The  emphasis  will  be  on 
reading  and  interpreting  schematics  and 
using  block  diagrams.  Participants 
should  have  a  general  knowledge  of 
electronic  fundamentals. 

Hydraulics/Pneumatics,  primarily 
a  lecture-demonstration  course,  will  be 
offered  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus  for 
16  weeks,  Wednesdays,  7  to  10  p.m., 
Jan.  18  10  May  2.  This  course  is  design- 
ed    to     improve     the     participants' 


'  knowledge  of  equipmeni  maintenance  in 
the  induslrial  environmenl. 

Numerical  Conlrol  Machining 
One,  for  machinists  desiring  training  or 
•retraining  in  programming  automatic 
machine  tools,  will  be  taught  on  16 
Tuesdays,  7  to  10  p.m.,  Jan.  17  lo  May 
1,  on  the  main  campus.  Participants 
should  have  previous  experience  in  the 
operation  of  manual  machine  tools  and 
a  solid  foundation  in  machine  shop 
mathematics. 

Numerical  Conlrol  Machining 
Two,  for  those  who  have  previously 
completed  Numerical  Conlrol  Machin- 
ing One,  and  wish  to  advance  their  pro- 
gramming knowledge,  will  be  taught  for 
eight  weeks  on  Wednesdays,  7  to  10 
p.m.,  Jan.  18  lo  March  7,  on  the  main 
campus.  Advanced  techniques  will  be 
presented  lo  prepare  participants  lo 
write  more  complex  routines. 

Pipe  Welding  Two  will  be  offered 
in  four  separate  sessions,  enabling  48 
persons  to  participate.  Each  section  will 
be  limited  to  12  parlicipanls.  Courses 
will  be  offered  from  noon  lo  5  p.m., 
Jan.  21 10  April  14,  for  13  Saturdays  on 
Ihe  main  campus.  This  course  em- 
phasizes advanced  pipe  welding  techni- 
ques. Participants  will  progress  at  a 
pace  determined  by  their  own  abilily. 
Previous  welding  experience  is  desired. 

Registration  for  non-credit  courses 
may  be  completed  by  mail-in,  in- 
person,  or  at  Ihc  first  meeting  of  the 
course.  The  College  must  receive  all 
mail-in  registrations  at  least  one  week 
before  class  begins.  Those  planning  to 
register  at  the  first  meeling  of  class 
should  keep  in  mind  that  acceptance  Is 
on  a  firsl-come/firsl-scrvcd  basis; 
therefore,  a  seat  cannot  be  guaranteed 
for  those  persons  wailing  to  register  on 
Ihe  first  night. 

For  more  information,  call  the 
Center  for  Lifelong  Education  at  the 
College.    Phone  (717)  326-3727. 


Biology  Club  holds 
meeting  noon  today 

The  Biology  Club  of  the  College  is 
planning  an  organizational  meeting  for 
the  Spring  semester,  to  be  held  at  noon 
today. 

The  purpose  of  the  meeting  is  to 
plan    activities    for    the    semester. 
Organizational  plans  will  also  be  made. 

Among  proposed  field  trips 
scheduled,  the  club  plans  to  visit  the 
Baltimore  Aquarium,  the  Pennsylvania 
Slate  University  Biology  Department, 
the  Bucknell  Primate  Lab,  and  the 
Chincoteague  National  Wildlife 
Preserve,  according  to  Ronald  E. 
Thompson,  biology  professor  and  club 
adviser. 

Computer  Science 
club  meets  today 

The  Computer  Science  Club  will 
meet  at  3;30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  in  Room 
321,  Academic  Center. 

This  Thursday  the  club  will  be  tak- 
ing a  trip  to  the  Eagles  Mere  Toboggan 
slide.  Any  interested  students  may  con- 
tact any  club  officer  or  committee 
member. 

SPOTLIGHT  pick-up  spot 
changed  in  Academic  Center 

The  SPOTLIGHT  no  longer  will  be 
placed  inside  the  foyer  of  the  Academic 
Center  for  pick-up. 

A  larger  number  of  the  newspaper, 
however,  will  be  placed  in  the  student 
lounge  on  the  first  floor  of  the 
Academic  Center. 

The  newspaper  will  be  distributed 
beginning  at  8  a.m.  this  semester. 

ALCOHOL 
AWARENESS 

What  could  happen  if  you  drink  while  taking  any  of  these  drugs: 
Narcotic  analgesics  (Darvon,  etc.) 
When  used  alone,  either  alcohol  or  narcotic  drugs  cause  a  reduction  in  the 
function  of  the  central  nervous  system.  When  Ihey  arc  used  together,  this  effect  is 
even  greater  and  may  lead  to  loss  of  effective  breathing.  Death  may  occur. 
Nonnarcotic  analgesics  (Asprin,  Tylenol,  etc.) 
Even  when  used  alone,  some  nonprescription  pain  relievers  can  cause  bleeding 
in  the  stomach  and  intestines.  Alcohol  also  irritates  the  stomach  and  can  aggravate 
the  bleeding,  especially  in  ulcer  patients.  Alcohol  may  also  increase  susceptibility  to- 
liver  damage  from  acetaminophen. 

Anlihislamines  (most  cold  remedies,  Aclifed,  etc.) 
Taking  alcohol  with  this  class  ot  drugs  increases  their  calming  effect  aiid  a  per 
son  can  feel  quite  drowzy,  making  driving  and  other  activities,  which  require  alert- 
ness more  hazardous. 

Central  nervous  system  slimulanls  (most  diet  pills,  caffeine,  etc.) 
Because  the  stimulant  effect  of  this  class  of  drugs  may  reverse  the  depressant 
effect  of  the  alcohol  on  the  central  nervous  system,  these  drugs  can  give  a  false  sense 
of  security.  They  do  not  help  intoxicated  persons  gain  control  of  their  movements. 
Sleep  medicines 
It  is  likely  that  nonprescription  drugs,  to  the  degree  that  they  are  effective,  will 
lead  to  the  same  kind  of  central  nervous  system  depression  when  combined  with 
alcohol  as  the  minor  tranquilizers. 

Minor  tranquilizers  (Valium,  Librium,  elc.) 
Tranquilizers  in  combination  with  alcohol  will  cause  reduced  functions  of  the 
central  nervous  system,  especially  during  the  first  few  weeks  of  drug  use.  This 
results  in  decreased  alertness  and  judgment  and  can  lead  to  household  and 
automotive  accidents. 

Vitamins 
Continuous  drinking  can  keep  vitamins  from  entering  the  blood  stream. 
However,  this  situation  changes  when  a  person  stops  drinking. 


SPOTLIGHTI  IM.indiy,  Jan.  I(,  l9Uu3 


SIGNING  HIS  CHECK  lo  purchase 
bonks  for  the  spring  semester  is 
Thomas  J.  Waldman,  a  machinist 
general  student  from  South 
Williamsport.  /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by 
Mary  L.  Pease/ 


FHMSO  elects  officers 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  Manage- 
ment Student  Organization  elected  new 
officers  at  its  meeting  last  Wednesday. 

Food  and  hospitality  management 
students  gaining  new  positions  were 
Gene  R.  Mader,  club  president;  Karen 
L.  Daniels,  vice-president;  Regina  M. 
Krunemakcr,  treasurer;  Barbara  E.  Ell- 
ing,  secretary,  and  Laura  L.  Fiester. 
SGA  delegate. 

Dietetic  technician  students  elected 
to  offices  were  Caroline  M.  Raker  and 
Kristina  L.  Popiolck,  ICC  delegates, 
and  Andrew  G.  Sickora.  SCA  delegate. 


BUYING  BOOKS  is  Sandy  L.  Boyer,  a  clerical  studies  student  from  Lewlsburg. 
At  right  is  employee  Mrs.  Josie  Williams  who  works  in  (he  Bookstore  during  the 
semester  msU./SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


Graduate  courses 
to  be  offered  here 
for  teachers 

Spring  classes,  beginning  Wednes- 
day, Jan.  25,  will  be  held  at  the  College 
as  part  of  a  Wilkes  College  program  en- 
titled "Project  T.E.A.C.H.",  according 
to  Dennis  F.  Ringling,  instructor  of 
forestry  who  is  an  adjunct  faculty 
member  at  Wilkes. 

Ringling  said  the  courses  are 
"designed  to  increase  teacher  effec- 
tiveness and  the  overall  learning  of  the 
student." 

The  courses  are  for  "beginning 
teachers"  as  well  as  those  who  may  be 
showing  signs  of  "burn-out"  or  wish  to 
improve     themselves,     he    added. 

Additional  information-is  available 
by  calling  Ringling  on  College  Extension 
8-24  or  by  calling  (800)  526-4630  and 
asking  for  Mrs.  Marie  ICristifiick. 


Validation  stickers 
available  this  week 

Validation  of  student  identificatioii 
and  pictures  for  those  students  who  didi 
not  fiave  their  identification  cards  pro- 
cessed will  again  be  available  this  week, 
The  hours  have  been  extended,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

Validation  slickers  can  be  picked 
up  from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  this  Monday 
through  Friday  in  Room  108,  Bardo 
Gym. 

Pictures  will  be  taken  and  valida- 
tion will  be  given  this  Monday,  Tues- 
day, and  Thursday  from  6  p.m.  lo  8:30 
p.m.  in  Room  102,  Bardo  Gym. 

Students  will  not  be  allowed  lo  use 
their  identification  card  this  semester 
unless  they  have  been  issued  a  valida- 
tion slicker,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


Employment  Opportunities 

Informalion  supplied  by  Counseling,  Career  Development,  and  Placemen!  Center. 
Central  Pennsylvania  Synod,  Lutheran  Church  in  America  Camps  in  Port 
Murray,  N.J.,  Colebronk,  Pa.,  Mifflinburg,  Pa.,  Arendtsville,  Pa.,  and  Jenner- 
I'own,  Pa.,  now  is  acceoline  applications  for  summer  emDiuvmenI  as  counselors, 
nurses,  secretaries,  lifeguards,  maintenance  and  kilchen  staff.  Applications  are 
posted  on  bullelin  board  oulside  Placement  Office,  Room  157,  Learning 
Resources  Center. 


One  full-lime,  permanent  employment  opportunity  for  a  Residential  Pro- 
gram Supervisor.  Bachelor's  degree  in  Human  Services  or  an  associate  degree 
with  experience.  Supervise  and  coordinate  resident  advisers,  write  behavioral 
programs,  provide  services  to  mentally  retarded  clients.  Starting  salary  is  $4.25 
per  hour.  Apply  lo  Anita  Yuskauskas,  P.O.  Box  90A,  Danville.  Pa.  17821.  Call 
(717)  275-5422  for  more  informalion. 


Ted  &  Bill  Huslead's  Wall  Drug  Store  in  Wall,  S.D.  hires  101  sludenls  from 
across  the  nation  from  June  through  Labor  Day  and  houses  Ihem  in  dormitories. 
For  more  informalion  write  Karen  Puppe,  Wall  Drug  Store,  Inc..  510  Main  St., 
Wall.  South  Dakola  57790. 


Summer  Employment  -  American  Diabetes  Association.  Camp  Nyda.  Burl- 
ington, New  York  (80  miles  outside  New  York  City)  will  be  employing  40  Camp 
Counselors,  Head  Cook  and  second  cook,  walerfroni  director,  nurses  (student) 
arls  and  crafis  specialist,  dietitian.  Contact  Albert  Passy,  Camp  Director,  ADA- 
New  York  Diabetes  Affiiale,  55  W.  39lh  St..  New  York  City.  N.V.  10018. 
Phime  (212)  944-7899. 


4aSP0TUGHTaManiliy,  Jin.  16.  »ii 


Lifelong  Education  Center/Progress 


LARGE  FREEZERS  will  be  used  by 
Ihe  College's  fond  service  and  food- 
orienled  cuniculums  in  (his  annex  of 
Ihe  new  Lifelong  Education  Center. 

/SPOTLIGHT  p/iolo  by  Mary  L. 
Pease/ 


THE  SUN  SHINES  on  the  Building  Trades  Center  in  an  east  view  from  Ihe  se- 
cond floor  of  Ihe  Lifelong  Education  Center.  /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Mary  L. 
Pease/ 


DESK  MATERIALS  await  assembly  in  Ihe  architectural  room  in  the  Lifelong 
Education  Center.  /SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Mary  L  Pease/ 


A  WORKER  SMOOTHS  finishing 
touches  onto  the  floor  surface  on  Ihe 
second  level  of  the  new  Lifelong 
Education  Center.  /SPOTLIGHT 
pliolo  by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


S::ft?!J--S*Wf:>.W:s*«;¥SSWi: 


IM  wrestling 
begins  tonight 

The  deadline  lo  sign  up  for  in- 
Iramural  wrestling  is  noon  today. 
Students  who  have  signed  up  or  intend 
to  sign  up  should  attend  the  clinic 
tonight  from  6:30  lo  8:30  p.m.  in  the 
Bardo  Gym. 

It  is  important  for  interested  per- 
sons to  attend  the  clinic  to  gel  the 
schedule  for  the  rest  of  the  week  and  for 
an  explanation  of  Ihe  rules  and  regula- 
tions that  will  be  followed,  according  lo 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

Students  need  to  attend  four  clinics 
which  will  provide  instruction  time 
before  tournaments.  The  clinics  also 
deal  with  techniques,  safety,  sicills  and 
strategy. 

Interested  students  who  cannot  at- 
tend should  visit  Mrs.  Fremiotti's  office, 
Romn  108,  Bardo  Gvm  for  weekly 
schedules,  or  call  College  Ext.  269. 


IM  bowling 
sign  up  extended 

Students  who  would  like  to  sign  up 
for  intramural  bowling  may  still  do  so 
tomorrow  at  4  p.m.  at  the  ABC  Bowl- 
ing Lanes,  1245  Park  Ave.,  according 
to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremioiti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 

Interested  students  need  four  per- 
sons per  team.  The  cost  is  $2.75  a  per- 
son for  three  games  and  shoes  are  free. 

The  time  was  extended  because  of 
last  week's  bad  weather.  Students 
should  plan  lo  bowl  tomorrow,  added 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Indoor  soccer  starts  soon 

Indoor  soccer  will  start  soon,  ac- 
cording lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  aclivilies.  Students  wishing  to 
sign-up  should  go  lo  Mrs.  Fremiotti's 
office,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym  for  more 
information. 


L-::a:ai;:a;;>x-»i<-x-x-:«-K.:-::a-ff:¥:-a^:':-: 


IBM  recruiters 
to  visit  College 

The  IBM  Corporation  from  En- 
dicoll.  New  York  will  be  sending  two  or 
three  recruiters  to  Ihe  College  lo  inter- 
view select  students  for  potential  jobs  in 
Ihe  corporation,  according  lo  Lawrence 
W,  Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling, 
career  development  and  placement. 

Ihe  interviews,  which  are  to  lake 
place  Tuesday,  January  24,  will  involve 
students  of  electronic  technology  and 
tool  design  technology,  according  lo 
Emery. 

"Spring  is  Ihe  big  recruiting 
season,"  Emery  said.  "Usually  much 
more  than  Ihe  fall." 


Campus  re^stration 

needed  for  all  vehicles 

parked  on  campus 

College  Security  Supervisor 
Lawrence  P.  Smeak  again  lasl  week 
reminded  all  drivers  who  regularly  park 
vehicles  on  campus  that  those  vehicles 
must  be  registered  at  the  Security  Office, 
on  lower  Park  Street. 

He  noted  that  vehicles  which  were 
registered  in  1983  have  slickers  which 
will  remain  valid  until  Aug.  31  of  this 
year. 

Students  newly  enrolled  at  Ihe  Col- 
lege this  semester,  persons  who  have  jusi 
joined  Ihe  College  slaff  and  persons  who 
acquired  a  vehicle  differcnl  than  one 
previously  registered  must  obtain  a 
parking  slicker,  Ihe  officer  said. 


Wildcat  Basketball 
Tomorrow  at  8  P.M. 
At  Home 


College  enters  agreement 


SPOTLIGHTaMondiy,  Jtn.  16,  I91MdS 


■■■  Conlinued  from  Page  I 
university  will  provide  the  College  with 
admissions  criteria  and  quotas.  Lock 
Haven  University  has  also  agreed  to 
allocate  a  specific  number  of  spaces  for 
qualified  transfer  students  from  the  Col- 
lege. 

The  formal  transfer  agreement  has 
received  praise  from  educators  and 
leaders  at  both  institutions.  Dr.  John 
Zaharis,  vice  president  for  academic  af- 
fairs at  Lock  Haven  University,  said, 
"We,  at  Lock  Haven  University,  are 
pleased  to  be  a  parly  to  this  transfer 
agreement  with  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College.  This  agreement 
will  insure  that  graduates  of  the  A. A. 
Degree  program  at  the  Community  Col- 
lege will  be  accepted  at  Lock  Haven 
University  on  a  priority  basis.  Lock 
Haven  University  looks  forward  to  the 
admission  of  these  well-qualified 
graduates." 

He  concluded,  "The  two  institu- 
tions have  established  a  fine, 
cooperative  relationship  which  should 
serve  well  the  people  we  educate  in  the 
years  ahead." 

Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch,  dean  of 
academic  affairs  at  the  College,  said  the 
formal  agreement  will  provide  a  number 
of  advantages.  It  will,  he  noted,  permit 
the  College,  to  fulfill  a  portion  of  its 
role  as  a  comprehensive  community  col- 
lege by  providing  transfer  opportunities 
for  its  students. 

Most  important,  he  said,  the  ar- 
ticulation agreement  will  provide 
students  with  an  increased  number  of 
educational  options  by  making  it  less 
complicated  to  transfer  to  Lock  Haven 
University  following  the  completion  of 

Ice  skating  trip 
to  semi-indoor  rink 

There  will  be  ice  skating  this  Thurs- 
day at  the  semi-indoor  rink  in  the  Sun- 
bury  Youth  and  Community  Center,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti. 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

The  College  will  provide  free 
transportation.  A  bus  will  leave  the 
Learning  Resources  Center  (LRC)  at 
5:30  p.m.  and  return  to  the  College  at  9 
p.m. 

Rental  for  skates  will  be  50  cents, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

All  students  must  register  in  ad- 
vance in   Room    108,   Bardo  Gym. 
Anyone  providing  their  own  transporta- 
tion should  also  see  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Open  gym  hours  set 

Open  gym  hours  will  be  Monday, 
Wednesday,  and  Thursday  8:30  to  10 
p.m.,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

In  addition  to  the  open  gym  hours, 
students  may  use  the  weight  room  Mon- 
day through  Thursday,  4  to  10  p.m., 
added  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


specified  programs  of  study  at  the  Col- 
lege. Dr.  Mauch  said  the  agreements 
between  the  College  and  Lock  Haven 
and  Mansfield  Universities  will  help 
eliminate  the  misunderstanding  and 
confusion  frequently  confronting 
students  who  wish  to  transfer  to  other 
institutions. 

According  to  Dr.  Breudcr,  the 
agreement  between  the  College  and 
Lock  Haven  University  should  be  very 
advantageous  to  graduates  of  the  Col- 
lege. 

"While  we  are  known  primarily  for 
our  vocational/technical  programming, 
the  reality  is  that  enrollment  in  our 
transfer  program  is  increasing 
dramatically.  We  expect  a  continuation 
of  this  high  rate  of  growth  as  students 
become  more  aware  of  the  advantages  in 
taking  the  first  two  years  of  a  four-year 
degree  program  at  the  College,"  he 
said. 

"We  can  offer  advantages  of  quali- 
ty and  accessability  at  an  affordable 
price.  Articulation  agreements,  such  as 
these  two  between  Mansfield  and  Lock 
Haven  Universities,  add  a  dimension 
that  makes  our  transfer  program  all  the 
more  attractive." 

Dr.  Breuder  further  noted  that  the 
College  plans  to  develop  a  similar  ar- 
ticulation with  Bloomsburg  University. 
The  College  already  has  a  successful 
cross-registration  agreement  with 
Lycoming  College. 


ACROSS 
1  Grate 

5  Greek  lener 

6  Footless 

12  Great  Lake 

13  Lamprey 

14  Certain 

15  01  a  sickly 
hue 

17  Small 

19  Cornered 

20  Hinder 

21  Gaseous 
element 


26  Repulse 
28  Quarrel 

31  Symbol  tor 
sliver 

32  Skill 

33  Pronoun 

34  Deity 
36  Wide 

38  Fondle 

39  Poems 

41  Unit  of  Italian 

currency 
43  Small  valleys 
45  Billiard  shot 
48  Tell 

50  Core 

51  Spoken 

52  Tibetan 
gazelle 

54  Roman 
people 

55  Harbor 

56  Obtain 

57  Otherwise 

DOWN 

1  Remainder 

2  Sandarac 


volcano 

5  Churcti 

6  3rd  person 

7  Sick 

8  Showy  flower 

9  Golf  club 

10  Heraldic 
bearing 

1 1  Antlered 
animal 

16  Aroma 
18  Sacred 


24  Suitcase 

25  The  sell 
27  In  favor  of 

29  Be  In  debt 

30  Damp 

35  Buck 

36  Cfiolcest 

37  Coin 


ANSWER 

NEXT 

WEEK 


38  Light  color       47  Gaelic 
40  Apportioned    49  Urge  on 

42  Roam  50  Household 

43  Let  fall  animal 

44  Danish  Island  53  Faroe  Islands 
46  Meaning:  Fr  whirlwind 


1983  Unltsd  Feature  Syndlcale  Inc 


Keystone  State  Games 
information  available 

Students  interested  in  athletic  com- 
petition may  wish  to  pick  up  an  applica- 
tion for  the  Keystone  State  Games. 

These  games  consist  of  competition 
for  men  and  women  in  such  events  as 
archery,  athletics  (track  and  field), 
baseball,  basketball,  boxing, 
canoe/kayak,  cycling,  diving,  gym- 
nastics, Judo,  soccer,  softball,  swimm- 
ing, weighllifiing,  wrestling,  and  disabl- 
ed sports,  according  to  information  sup- 
plied by  Harry  C.  Specht,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  physical  education. 

The  games  are  designed  to  create 
an  expanded,  coordinated  and  citizen- 

Wildcats  annihilate  Luzerne 


Registration  needed 

to  go  tobogganing  Sunday 

Anyone  interested  in  tobogganing 

at   Eagles   Mere  this  Sunday  should 

register  with  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti, 

coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 

supported  program  of  physical  fitness  College  activities,  in  Room  108,  Bardo 

and  amateur  athletic  competition.  Gym. 

In  attaining  these  goals  the  games  The  College  will  provide  free; 
promote  physical  fitness  and  sports  ac-  transportation  and  no  other  fee  will  be 
tivily  as  a  health  improvement  and  involved  unless  you  want  to  buy  fdod 
disease  preventive  strategy  for  all  Penn-  and  drink. 

sylvanians,  accordmg^to  the  brochure.  The  bus  will  leave  the  Learnint 

They  also  provide  the  pagentry  ot  Resources  Center  (LRC)  at  10  a.m.  and! 
the  "Olympic"  events  with  opening  and  'return  to  the  College  at  3  p.m.,  saidi 
closing  ceremonies,  medal  presentation,  'Mrs.  Fremiotti. 
and  social  activities. 

Brochures  are  available  in  the 
physical  education  athletic  office,  Room 
106,  Bardo  Gym. 


The  Wildcats  basketball  team 
defeated  Luzurne  County  Community 
'College  108-77  in  men's  basketball  ion 
last  Wednesday. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  half  the 
Wildcats  were  wjnning  b^  14  ooinls. 


from  East  Berlin,  with  24  points. 
Following  Ehly  was  Thomas  J.  Pro- 
want,  business  management  student 
from  New  Columbia,  with  13  points, 
Timothy  A.  Rodgers,  broadcasting  stu- 
dent from  Boyertown,  was  next  with  13 


They  dominated  early  in  the  second  half     point 
when  they  pulled  ahead  to  gain  a  30 
point  lead. 

Although  the  Wildcats  won  by  31 
points.  Coach  Louis  J.  Menago  stated, 
"We  still  need  a  lot  of  work  especially 
on  defense  and  the  different  presses  we 
use.  We  had  good  scoring  from  the 
bench  and  each  member  gave  110  per- 
cent." 

The  high  scorer  of  the  game  was 
Dave  Ehly,  food  and  hospitality  student 


Two  new  members  of  the  team  ad- 
ded to  the  tally  scoring  double  figures 
during  their  first  game.  Tom  C. 
McNamee,  business  management  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  scored  15 
points  and  David  M.  Haffner,  electrical 
technician  student  from  Allenwood, 
scored  II. 

"McNamee  is  an  excellent  ball 
handler,  while  Hafi'ner  is  a  power  for- 
warc',"  added  Menago. 


Student-faculty 
game  to  be  played 

Members  of  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
(PBL)  will  challange  several  faculty 
members  in  a  basketball  game  this 
Thursday,  at  6:30  p.m.  in  the  Bardo 
Gym,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

Any  group  or  club  that  is  interested 
in  reserving  time  in  the  gym  for  ac- 
tivities should  contact  Mrs.  Fremiotti  at 
College  Ext.  269. 

Skiing  trips  now 

■■■  Conlinued  from  Page  I 
lift,  lessons,  and  rentals. 

Also,  anyone  planning  on  driving 
up  themselves  should  first  contact  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

She  can  be  reached  by  calling  Ext. 
269. 


6a$P0TLIGHTnMnnday.  Jan.  16.  1984 


A  variety  of  non-credit  courses  offered 
by  Center  for  Lifelong  Education 


The  College's  Cenlcr  for  Lifelong 
Educalion  division  has  non-crcdil 
courses  available  al  the  College,  which 
are  lo  begin  in  January. 

The  following  courses  in  the 
business  and  professional  dcvclopmeni 
area  arc  being  offered  and  beginning 
dales  are  designalcd:  Primed  Advcrlis- 
ing,  10  begin  Jan.  18;  Personal  Asscr- 
liveness  Training  One,  Jan.  17;  Business 
Asserliveness  Training  Two,  Jan.  19; 
Cardiac  Dysrylhmias,  Jan.  16;  Medical 
Terminology  Two,  Jan.  19;  Shorlhand 
One,  Jan.  16;  Typing  One,  Jan.  17  and 
BASIC  Programming  for  Adulls,  Jan. 
19. 

Courses  specifically  designed  for 
children  are  being  offered  also.  These 
include;  Gymnastics  One  for  Children, 
to  begin  Jan.  18;  Gymnastics  Two  for 
Children,  Jan.  18;  Gymnastics  Three 
for  Children.  Jan.  18;  Rollerskaling  One 
for  Children,  Jan.  21;  Rollerskaling 
Two  for  Children,  Jan.  17;  Sclf- 
Expression  for  Children,  Jan.  I9--Iwc 
sections;  Silk  Screening  for  Childicn, 
Jan.  21. 

In  the  communications  and 
language  emphasis  area,  the  College  is 
offering:  Creative  Writing  One,  to 
begin  Jan.  17;  Creative  Writing  Two, 
Jan.  18;  Conversational  French,  Jan. 
18;  Hebrew  Two,  Jan.  16;  Conversa- 
lional  Kalian,  Jan.  17;  Conversational 
Polish,  Jan.  18;  Writer's  Workshop, 
Jan.  19  and  Conservational  Spanish 
One,  Jan.  16. 

For  those  inleresled  in  the  fine  arts 
and  creative  design,  the  following 
courses  are  being  offered:  Old-Time 
Banjo,  lo  begin  Jan.  17;  Calligraphy 


Workshop,  Jan.  18;  Ceramics  One,  Jan. 
16;  Drawing  One,  Jan.  17;  Drawing 
Two,  Jan.  19;  Guitar  One,  Jan.  17;  In- 
terior Design,  Jan.  18;  Music  Theory 
One,  Jan.  19;  Oil  and  Acrylics  Painting, 
Jan.  16;  Pholography  One,  Jan.  17; 
Photography  Two,  Jan.  18;  Pottery, 
Jan.  16  and  17 -two  sections;  Relief 
Printmaking  One,  Jan.  19;  Silk  and 
Dried  Decorations  One,  Jan.  17;  Stain- 
ed Glass  One,  Jan.  19  and  Weaving, 
Jan,J7. 

Courses  ranging  from  Bread  Bak- 
ing to  Mixology  will  be  offered  irTthe 
area  of  food  and  drink.  These  courses 
include:  Bread  Baking,  lo  begin  Jan. 
20;  Cake  Decorating  One,  Jan.  17; 
Cake  Decorating  Three,  Jan.  18;  Italian 
One-Cooking  and  Cookies,  Jan.  18;  In- 
troduction to  Wines,  Jan.  18;  Mixology 
One.  Jan.  16  and  Jan.  17-two  sections. 

For  those  who  enjoy  sewing  and 
needlecrafts,  the  following  courses  will 
be  available:  Country  Crafts,  to  begin 
Jan.  16  and  Jan.  19-two  sections;  Knit- 
ting and  Crocheting,  Jan.  17;  Quilting 
One,  Jan.  17;  Sampler  Quills,  Jan.  17; 
Sewing  One,  Jan.  19;  jewing  Two,  Jan. 
17;  Sewing  for  Your  Home,  Jan.  18; 
Upholstering,  Jan.  16,  17,  18,  and  19. 

For  those  interested  in  learning  or 
building  shop  skills,  the  following 
courses  will  be  ofTered:  Auto  Body 
Repair,  to  begin  Jan.  17;  Carpenter's 
Framing  Square,  Jan.  17;  Furniture 
Repair  and  Refinishing,  Jan.  18;  Small 
Gas  Engine  Repair  Two,  Jan.  19;  Com- 
bination Welding,  Jan.  21;  Avocalional 
Woodworking,  Jan.  16  and  17-two  sec- 


lions,  and  Small  Gas  Engine  Repair 
One,  Jan.  17. 

In  the  special  interests  category,  the 
following  courses  are  being  offered:  Bi- 
ble Study  Techniques,  lo  begin  Jan.  18; 
Break  the  Smoking  Habit,  Jan.  18-two 
sections;  Chair  Caning.  Jan.  17;  Clown- 
ing, Jan.  16;  Genealogy,  Jan.  16;  It's 
Greek  to  Me,  Jan.  16;  Local  Hislory, 
Jan.  -17;  Parenliiig/TIie  liifanl  Year, 
Jan.  18;  Pilol  Gr'ound  School 
Two/Instrument,  Jan.  18;  Sparkle  With 
Your  Colors,  Jan.  19-two  sections,  and 
Time  Management,  Jan.  17. 

A  variety  of  fitness  and  exercise 
courses  are  being  offered  in  the  sports 
and  recreation  category.  These  include: 
Aerobic  Exercise,  to  begin  Jan.  16  and 
17-lwo  sections;  Aerobics,  Jan.  16; 
Dancercise,  Jan.  18;  Fitness  for 
Women.  Jan.  16;  Hatha  Yoga  One, 
Jan.  18,  Judo,  Jan.  17;  Rollerskaling 
Two  for  Adults,  Jan.  17;  Self-Defense 
■for  Women,  Jan.  17. 

Registration  for  non-credit  courses 
can  be  completed  In  any  one  of  three 
ways:  mail-in,  in-person  or  at  the  first 
meeting  of  the  course.  The  College 
must  receive  all  mail-in  registrations  at 
least  one  week  in  advance.  Those  plan- 
ning to  register  at  the  first  meeting  of 
the  course  should  be  reminded  that  ac- 
ceplance  is  on  a  first-come,  first-served 
basis;  therefore,  a  seal  cannot  be 
guaranteed  for  persons  waiting  to 
register  the  first  night. 

For  more  information,  call  the  Col- 
lege's Center  for  Lifelong  Education  at 
Ext.  231. 


Bulletin  board  in  LRC 
contains  important  notices 

Important  notices  concerning  slate 
civil  service  examinations,  companies 
interviewing  on  campus,  and  other  in- 
formation of  interest  to  sludcnts  appear 
on  the  bulletin  board  outside  ihc 
Counseling,  Career  Development,  and 
Placement  Office,  Room  157,  Learning 
Resources  Cenlcr  (LRC),  according  to 
biwrence  W.  Emery  Jr..  director. 

Students  arc  requested  to  check  it 
periodically  to  keep  informed  of  office 
events,  he  said. 

Army  recruiter  lo  be 
on  campus  Jan.  26 

A  U.S.  Army  recruiter  will  be  in 
the  Counseling,  Career  Development, 
and  Placement  Center  from  10  a.m.  lo  2 
p.m.,  on  Thursday,  Jan.  26,  to  provide 
computerized  information  on  technical 
fields  in  the  Army,  according  to 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  center  direc- 
tor, 

The  recruiter  will  also  provide  "an 
individual  computerized  analysis  of  op- 
portunities," the  director  said. 


Practical  nursing  students 
graduate  at  North  Campus 


Ciml,«  Collrtt  lti/iinm„m  Offxr 

The  first  Practical  Nursing  class  of 
the  North  Campus  was  graduated  on 
Friday,  Jan  6  at  8  p.m.  at  the  North 
Campus. 

There  were  12  graduates:  Hazel 
Bickham,  Covington;  Donna  Brennan, 
Wells'boro;  Elizabeth  Driscoll, 
Wellsboro;  Maria  Focht,  Wellsboro; 
Patricia  Hunt,  Weslfield;  Kimberly 
Kaufmann,  Wellsboro;  Rebecca 
Loudenslager,  Covington;  Bonnie 
Miller,  Blossburg;  Sara  Putnam, 
Wellsboro;  Cheryl  Redell,  Wellsboro; 
Carol  Wattles,  Lilllc  March,  and  Bar- 
bara Whitford,  Middlcbury  Center. 

Opening  remarks  were  made  by 
Dr.  Robert  L.  Breudcr,  College  presi- 
dent. Dr.  Cathryn  L.  Addy,  director  of 
the  North  Campus,  also  spoke. 

Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch,  academic 


dean,  presented  graduates  and  Mrs. 
Christine  Schwartz,  inslrudor,  pinned 
the  graduates.  Dr.  Breudcr  awarded  the 
certificates  to  the  graduates  . 

Awards  were  presented  by  two  in- 
structors, Mrs.  Susan  Sweet  and  Mrs. 
Natalie  DeLeonardis. 

Kimberly  L.  Kaufmann, 
Wellsboro,  was  awarded  the  Soldiers 
and  Sailors  Memorial  Hospital  award 
for  academic  achievement. 

The  Green  Home  award  for 
geriatric  care  went  to  Rebecca  L. 
Loudenslager,  Covington. 

Hazel  M.  Bickham,  Covington, 
received  the  Soldiers  and  Sailors 
Memorial  Hospital  medical  staff  award 
for  clinical  progress. 

A  reception  for  family  and  friends 
of  the  graduates  was  held  in  the  student 
lounge. 


Students  awarded 

■■■  Cfinlinued from  Page  I 

of  Ha/leion.  cleciricnl  occiipaiioiis; 
lewis  Davis,  of  Rcimvo  .Star  Route, 
electrical  occupations;  Guv  Mensch,  of 
BloomsburL'  RD  .1.'  clcdiicnl 
iccliHoli.i^y:  R.iiiald  I:.  I!:ikcr  Jr.,  of 
IcttisbiirL'  RD  3,  elcciiical  leclinology. 

And.  Jnlni  IScdnar/,  of  Adnni'-, 
Mass..  plumbine  and  heaiiiie;  Kciniclli 
Shalcr.  1 127  Baldwin  St.,  Wiiliamsport, 
plunibini:  and  lieaiiri);:  Larry  .Swan/,  of 
Mcihanicsbnrg.  agrihusincss;  Terry 
Ginglicr,  of  Stale  Collciie.  agribusiness. 

Malihcw  Flahcny.  of  Fneiulwillc, 
lloriculiurc;  Jo  Ann  .Szyniaiiski,  of 
Scraiiion,  lldriculuire;  lliomas  Smink, 
of  Haificld.  foiesi  icchnoloL'y;  James 
Clia|inian  Jr.,  of  Williamsporl  RD  2, 
forcsl  technology;  Brooke  Barlini.  of 
I'roclor  Slar  Roule,  Williamsporl, 
nursery  managcnieni. 

Nathan  Kinsey,  of  Laporlc, 
nursery  management;  Mark  Larsen,  of 
Erie,  service  and  operation  of  "heavy 
equipment;  Marvin  Waxham,  of  Lake 
City,  service  and  operation  of  heavy 
equipment. 

Others  receiving  scholarships  in- 
cluded: William  Warmbrodt,  of 
Johnsonburg,  wood  ,  products 
lechnology;  Leonard  Treat  Jr.,  of 
Roulcllc  RD  I,  wood  products 
lechnology;  Patricia  Korb,  of  Wysox 
RD  2,  advertising  art;  Leslie  Pfirman, 
of  Williamsporl  RD  4,  advertising  art. 

Barbara  Bolink,  of  Loganlon  RD 
2,  broadcasting;  AnMuniy  Gobrcchl,  of 
Hanover  RD  7,  graphic  ans;  Eric  Barr, 
of  Jersey  Shore,  graphic  arts;  Joan 
Thompson,  of  Jersey  Shore  RD  I,  jour- 
nalism; Perry  Pent/,  of  Dcwart,  jour- 
nalism. 

Karl  Orwig,  of  Williamsporl  RD  2, 
eleclrcniics;  Francis  Burchanowski,  1220 
Mulberry  Si,  Monloursvillc,  cicctnniics; 
Jane  Ryder,  of  Merccrsburg,  denial 
hygiene;  Susan  Forsburg,  1725  Four 
Mile  Drive,  Williamsporl.  denial 
hygiene;  Nancy  Reich.  1856  Marshall 
Ave.,  Williamsporl,  praclical  nursing. 

Cheryl  Bower,  446  Jordan  Ave., 
Monloursvillc,  praclical  nursing; 
I'homas  Marino,  1585  W.  Southern 
Ave.,  South  Williamsporl,  general 
studies  and  Helena  Tiedcken,  411  Fll'ih 
Ave.,  Williamsporl,  general  studies. 


A  "sharpie"  is  a  long,  narrow,  Charles  Goodyear,  the  American 

fial-bollomed  fishing  boat  used  in  New     inventor  of  vulcanized  rubber  was  born 
E"g'a"''-  in  1800  and  died  in  1860. 


$1.50  Admission  ^j  II 

u> 

o 

H 

^ 

sr 

B 

^ 

o. 

5S 

«^ 

BQ 

£ 

> 

^ 

V      1 

o 

^:s 

■a   1 

O 

f?* 

0   I 

> 

B 

i 

O 

b 

B 

1 

s- 

^  laD  ^q  paiuasajj  1 

Symptoms  of  diabetes 
sometimes  confused 
with  those  of  flu 
at  this  time  of  year 

The  following  informalion  from 
llie  American  Diabetes  Association 
Inc  was  furnished  by  Mrs.  Vivian  P. 
Moon,  associate  professor  of  food  ser- 
vile and  dielelics. 


"An  estimated  7,000  to  8,000 
young  people  are  stricken  with  insulin- 
dcpcndcnl  diabclcs  in  Ihc  United  Stales 
each  year,"  reports  Allan  L.  Drash, 
M.D.,  president  of  the  American 
Diabetes  Association. 

About  70  percent  of  all  new  cases 
of  this  life-threatening  disease  occur  bet- 
ween November  and  March.  During 
this  season,  the  symptoms  may  be  con- 
fused with  those  of  flu  or  gastroenteritis 
by  physicians  or  emergency  room  per- 
sonnel," Most  cases  occur  in  children 
from  five  to  14  years  of  age. 

Medical  experts  in  diabelology  ex- 
pect that,  over  the  next  Tve  months,  an 
estimated  5,000  or  more  children  and 
young  adults  may  develop  this  lifelong 
disease  for  which  there  is  treatment  but 
as  yet  no  cure.  Increased  thirst,  fre- 
quent urination,  nausea  and  weight  loss 
are  some  of  the  major  symptoms  of 
diabetes. 

Gel  a  check-up 

"The  American  Diabetes  Associa- 
tion urges  that  you  be  checked  for 
diabetes  by  a  qualified  physician  if  you 
have  any  of  these  symptoms,"  says  Dr. 
Drash. 

If  this  severe  form  of  diabetes  is  not 


SPOTI.ICHTI  IMonday,  Jan.  16,  I9«4u7 
» 

detected  and  treated,  a  person  will  go  f 

into  diabetic  coma  and  may  die.  "  ^ 

In  addition  to  increaded  thirst  and  '$ 

urination,     symptoms     of    diabetic  'A 

acidosis    include    vomiting,    adominal  g 

pain,  fatigue  and  stiortness  ot  breath.  P 

Those  who  have  any  of  these  symptoms  | 

should  contact  a  doctor  promptly  and  f 

be  sure  to  tell  him/her  about  the  in-  ^ 

creases  thirst  and  urination  as  well  as  as  % 

any  other  medical  problems.  ^ 

Dr.     Drash     emphasized     that  p 

"greater  public  awareness  of  the  warn-  ^ 

ing    signs    of   diabetes    and    prompt  | 

medical  treatment  when  these  symptoms  f 

occur  can  save  lives  of  thousands  of  I 

children  and  young  adults  who  develop  1 

diabetes  each  winter."  f 

For  more  information  on  diabetes,  f 

contact  the  American  Diabetes  Associa-  I 

tion  listed  in  the  while  pages  of  the  local  | 

telephone    directory    or    contact    the  % 

Association's  national  headquarters  at  ;| 

Two  Park  Avenue,  Dept.  1984,  New  i 

York,  N.Y.  10016.  | 

The  Association,   with   its   more  f 

than    700    community-based    service  § 

centers,  is  the  nation's  largest  not-for-  I 

profit  health  organization  working  to  |i 
serve  the  1 1  million  Americans  who  are  _  |! 
afflicted  with  diabetes.                              "  $ 


Diet  therapy  students 
offer  assistance 

Students  in  the  diet  therapy  class 
are  looking  for  persons  on  therapeutic 
diets  to  do  nutritional  studies  and  to 

assist  by  answering  questions  and, 
"hopefully",  new  ideas,  according  to 
Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  food  .service  and  dielelics. 

Anyone  inleresled  is  being  asked  to 
leave  his  or  her  name  and  telephone 
number  with  Mrs.  Moon  by  calling  Col- 
lege Ext.  369  or  College  Ext.251. 

Associate  professor 
to  go  to  Chicago 

This  weekend,  Mrs.  Vivian  P. 
Moon,  associate  professor  of  food  ser- 
vice and  dietetics,  will  be  going  to 
Chicago  for  a  three  day  meeting  of  the 
Hospital  Institution  Educational  Food 
Service  Society  (H.I.E.F.S.S.). 

Mrs.  Moon  is  on  a  committee  to 
establish  standards  and  guidelines  for 
all  college  programs  for  dietetic 
assistants  and  technicians. 
H.I.E.F.S.S.  will  pay  all  her  travel  and 
accomodation  expenses. 

H.I.E.F.S.S.  is  a  national 
organization  for  training  dietetic  techni- 
cians and  assistants.  It  is  a  subsidiary 
of  the  American  Dietetic  Association. 

Female  sludenl  needs  ride  In  Jersey 
Shore  on  Tuesday  and  Thursday 
around  2  p.m.  Also  needs  ride  to  and 
from  Jersey  Shore  on  Monday, 
Wednesday,  and  Friday-hours:  9-12. 
CALL:  398-0156. 

FOR  SALE:  2  caltulalors -one 
Hewlett/Packer  HP/4I-CV  hand-held 
computer;  can  be  piugsed  into  "screen. 
One  Texas  InslrumenI  55/2  calculator. 
CALL:  546-2819. 


Indian  Fellowship 
grant  applications 
are  now  available 

The  Office  of  Counseling,  Career 
Development,  and  Placement  has  an  ap- 
plication for  grams  under  the  Indian 
Fellowship  Program  of  the  United 
Stales  Deparlmenl  of  Education,  accor- 
ding to  Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  direc- 
tor of  counseling,  career  development 
and  placement. 

This  program  provides  fellowships 
to  enable  Indian  students  to  pursue  an 
undergraduate  degree  in  business  ad- 
ministration, engineering,  natural 
resources,  and  related  fields,  he  said. 

If  you  are  an  Indian  student  and 
are  interested  in  more  information  on 
this  program,  please  contact  Lawrence 
W.  Emery  Jr.,  Room  157,  Learning 
Resources  Center  (LRC). 


A  mort  is  a  note  sounded  on  a  hun- 
ting horn  when  a  deer  is  killed. 


Stress  group  to  Start;  meetre^^^^^^ 

A  Stress  Management  group  form-  ing  then  those  positions  win  be  filled  by 

ed  by  Ms.  Kalhryn  A.  Ferrencc,  career  other  students,  said  Ms.  Fcrrence. 
dcvelopmeni  specialist  will  be  held  from  The  group  will  discuss  what  stress 

4:30  to  6  p.m.  every  Tuesday  starting  is,  its  causes,  and  its  prevention.   The 

ncxi  Tuesday,  Jan.  24  in  Rooni  157  of  group  wi/l  be  both  a  discussion  and  lear- 

llie  Learning  Resources  Center,  accor-  ning  group,  Ms.  Ferrencc  said, 
ding  to  Ms.  Ferrencc.  Persons  wanting  more  information 

The  group  is  open  to  15  persons,  may    contact    Ms.    Ferrencc    in    the 

Handicapped   persons   will   have  first  counseling  office.  Room  157,  Learning 

preference.   If  any  positions  are  remain-  Resources  Center  (LRC),  Ext.  389. 


tonight 
7:30  p.m. 


ACC  Auditorium 

$1  (with  ID) 
$2  (without  ID) 


Attention  Carpentry  Students: 


Now  through  February  1 5th,  receive  a  1 0  percent 

discount  on  our  already  low  priced  STANLEY  TOOLS 

when  vou  show  us  vour  school  ID 


Start  the  term  off  with  BIG  SAVINGS 
on  the  TOOLS  you  need! 
Lumber  &  BIdg.  CHAD  ROAD,  MUNCY 
Malerlal  '""'  ^^"""'"i^ "»"' 

iTidiciKli  .^^1^^  Pennsdale  exil  off  Rl.  220 

322-7509  or  546-8026         Center  ,„,„  a.  f...'s  Resi.ur.ni 

See  us  for  all  your   lumber  &  building  material  needs! 


mm 


KaSPOTLIGHTDMonday.  Jw.  16.  I9M 


Bulletin 
Board 


For  Ihf  week 

of  Monday,  Jon.  16 

IliFOURh  Sunday,  Jan.  22 

MEETINGS 

Alpha  Omega  Club,.. 7 p.m.  in  10 

p.m.,  loiiiorrow.  Room  6,  Academic 

Center. 

MOVIE 
Richard  Prynr   Live   on   Sunset 
Strip.. .7:30  p.m.,   tonight.   Academic 
Center  Auditorium.      Admission  SI 
with  College  ID,  $2  willmut  College  ID. 
ACTIVITIES 
Ski    trip... Oregon     Hilt,     this 
Wednesday,  5:30 p.m.  to  10 p.m. 

Ice  Skating,. .Sunbury  Youth  and 
Community  Center,  this  Thursday, 
5:30  p.m.  to  9  p.m. 

Tobogganing... Eagles  Mere,  this 
Sunday  10  a.m.  to  3  p.m. 


Team  member  on  campus 
to  evaluate  College 

A  reprcscnialivc  of  Ihe  Middle 
Slates  Evalualion  Team.  Dr.  Roberi  L. 
Cell,  will  be  al  the  College  today  lo 
evaluate  preparations  for  Ihe  team's  full 
visit  in  April,  according  to  Dr.  Daniel  J. 
Doyle,  planning  committee  chairperson 
of  the  long  range  planning  process. 

Cell,  president  of  Cecil  Community 
College,  M.D.,  will  assess  the  College's 
preparation  and  prepare  it  for  the  April 
visit  when  College  documents  will  be 
reviewed  and  interviews  conducted. 

While  on  campus.  Cell  will  meet 
with  College  president  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Brcuder  and  the  long  range  planning 
process  steering  committee.  After  a 
brief  campus  tour.  Cell  will  have  lunch 
with  student  leaders,  meet  with  area 
committee  chairs,  and  meet  again  with 
Dr.  Breuder. 

Cell's  visit  is  very  important  to  the 
College's  long  range  planning  process, 
Doyle  added. 


Cilb's  College  Comer 


1100  W.  Third  St..  Williamsporl 

INal  10  Academic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHG^D;   J22I32I 

OPEN  7:30  a.m.^til  6  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


Get  the  high-tech  career 
you  want  when  you  want  it. 


The  Navy's  DalayMi  Entry  Program  can  guarantee 
you  the  training  you  want,  when  you  want  It. 

QHalify  and  you  choose  the  training  you  want  from 
over  60  career  areas.  Then  you  may  have  up  to  one 
I  full  year  before  you  report. 

Ilial  gives  you  time  to  do  what  you  want  to  do-f  inlsh 
school,  travel  or  )ust  relax.  When  you  begin  the  Navy 
adventure,  you  begin  with  training  in  sophisticated 
fields  like  computers,  electronics,  nuclear  power  or 
communications.  Then  you  get 
Important  on-the-job  experi- 
ence that  lets  you  become  a 
master  at  the  career  you 
chose  while  you  travel 
to  places  like  Greece, 
Spain  and  Hong 
Kong. 

To  find  out  more 
about  the  ad- 
vantages of  the 
Navy's  Delayed 
Entry  Program, 
see  your  guidance 
counselor  or  call 
your  local  Navy 
representative: 


1-800-692-7823 


Artists  Unlimited 
meeting  date  changed  .. 
to  this  Friday 

The  first  meeting  of  Ihe  Artists 
Unlimited  for  the  Spring  semester  has 
been  changed  from  Tuesday,  Jan.  17,  lo 
this  Friday,  Jan.  20  from  12  to  1  p.m. 
The  meeting  will  lake  place  in  Room  5, 
Academic  Center,  according  lo  Patrick 
D.  Murphy,  assistant  professor  of 
advertising  art  and  adviser  to  the  group. 

Movies  to  be  shown 
during  this  semester 

Listed  below  is  a  complete  list  of 
the  movies  for  spring  1984,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 
Jan.  16  Richard  Pryor:  Live  on 

Sunset  Strip 
Jan.  23  On  Golden  Pond 

Jan.  30  Stripes 

Feb.  6  Ghandi 

Feb.  13         Absence  of  Malice 
Feb.  27  Dog  Day  Afternoon 

March  5        Tootsie 
March  12       Nighl  Crossing 
April  2  Psycho  W 

April  9  Billy  Jack 

April  16         Firefox 

All  movies  will  be  shown  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  on  Mon- 
day nights  al  7:30  p.m.  Students  with 
ID  will  be  charged  $i.  All  others  will  be 
charged  $2. 


Creative  Kitchen  Menus 

Monday,  January  16 

Golden  Greek  Soup 

(creamy  chicken  soup  with  lemon) 

Pol  Roasled  Round  of  Beef  Jardiniere 

Poppy  Seed  Noodles 

Green  Bean  Bundles 

Fresh  Mushroom  Salad 

Malabar  Dressing 

Crescent  Rolls-Butter 

Ruby  Fruit  Compote  or 

Cream  Puff  Swans 

Wednesday,  January,  18 

Chicken  Endive  Soup 

Saltimboca 

(breast  of  turkey,  ham,  gruyere) 

Mediterranean  Rice 

Stuffed  Mushroom  Florentine 

Italian  Hard  Rolls 

Moroccan  Salad 

Cannoli  Crepes-Fudge  Sauce 

Thursday,  January  19 

Faki  Soupa  (spicy  vegetable  beef  soup) 

Toasted  Pita  Triangles 

Chicken  or  Seafood  Crepes  Mornay 

Cranberry  Sorbet 

Broccoli  Polonaise 

Raspberry  Pear  Tart 

Coffee,  lea  or  iced  tea  served  with 

all  meals.    Meals  cost  $3.    Soups  with 

homemade  rolls  and  desserts  are  a  la 

carte. 


Alptia  Omega  Fellows/tip 

meeting 

7  p.m.  tomorrow 

Room  6,  Academic  Center 


GOOD  BEER  at  an 

excellent  price! 


Available  now  at 

(*?  BEVERAGE  CO.     ^T 

419-421  Fifth  Ave.  •  WiUiamsporl,  Pa.  •  717/323-323T 


Spotlight 


WiiiiAMspoKi  Arla  Community  CoiiUii  ■  Wiliumwiki  Pa  /-«, 


Mnndai.  Jai 
Williitinspnrl  Ari'3 


2.1.  I9II4     •    Viil.  19.  N(i.  19     •    8  PaEO 
(oinmiiiiilt  Collrcc     •     WMlKimspi>rl.  V:\.  17701 


Three  sources 
to  fund  new 
program 

Funding  for  ihe  "Educational  Op- 
portunities for  the  Unemployed"  pro- 
gram at  the  College  has  been  announced 
by  Dr.  Mile.s  Williams,  dean  of 
employee  and  public  relations. 

The  program,  which  started  with 
an  orientation  on  Dec.  14,  is  to  be  fund- 
ed from  three  different  sources-slate, 
district,  and  student. 

Federal  funds,  including  Pell 
Grants  and  stale  aid.  will  be  available  to 
students  as  usual,  he  said. 

In  addition,  Ihe  Williamsport 
Foundation  has  agreed  lo  fund  up  to 
S3,S00  for  acquisition  of  tools  for  Ihe 
program. 

The  College  itself  will  absorb  any 
excess  cost  for  now,  unlil  a  belter  solu- 
tion can  be  arrived  at,  according  lo  Dr. 
Williams. 

Window  displays 
do«e-by-*todent8 

Students  in  Ihe  fashion,  merchan- 
dising, and  display  courses  will  create 
^   ,    presentations  for  the  display  windows  on 
Acadomu  Center  last  week  ,|hc  first  floor  of  Ihe  Academic  Center. 


Student  bus  passes 
no  longer  available 
ID  replaces  them 

Sludcnl  bus  passes  no  longer  exist, 
according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremioiii, 
coordinalur  of  intramural  alhleiics  and 
College  aclivilics. 

Sludcnls  photo  ID  cards  replace 
the  bus  pass.  A  studcni  need  only  show 
photo  ID  wilh  validalion  slicker  lo  a' 
bus  driver-  lo  be  eligible  for  reduced 
fare,  said  Mrs.  Fremioiii. 

This  service  is  offered  to  all  full- 
time  Sludcnls  by  Ihe  Williamsport 
Bureau  of  Transporlalion. 

Part-lime  sludcnls  are  not  eligible 
for  reduced  fare.  The  student  validalion 
slickers  will  be  marked  lo  note  Ihis  for 
Ihe  bureau.  

PBL  wiFhold 
meeting  Thursday 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  hold 
its  first  mecling  of  the  semester  this 
Thursday,  Room  204,  Academic  Center. 

During  ihe  meeting,  Jonathan  F. 
Miller,  computer  science  student, 
Williamsport,  will  be  installed  as  an  ad- 
mimstrative  aide  lo  the  president. 

Also,  plan  for    attendance  at  the 

Stale    Leadership    Conference    al    Ihe 

Marriott. Hold  in  Harrisburg  on  April  6, 

■■■  Please  turn  In  Page  3 


STUDENTS  SHRUf;  OFF  the  cold  as  they  enter  Ihe 

during  an  almost  conlinuous  snowfall.    iSPOTLIUtIT pliaui  hv  Mary  L.  Pease) 


Former  College  student 
writes,  writes-writes 


By  Joan  L.  Thumpson 
Managing  Edilur 

While  politicians  debate  over  what 
should  be  done  about  our  servicemen  in 
Lebanon,  a  1983  journalism  graduate  of 
the  College,  Miss  Wendy  S.  Sherman, 
of  Weslfield,  lakes  some  positive  action. 

Miss  Sherman,  who  works  as  a 
■  part-time  reporter  and  photographer  for 
Ihc  Free-Press  Courier  in  Weslfield, 
loves  lo  write  and  she  does  -  a  lot. 

At  last  report,  she  was  writing  to 
26  servicemen  besides  corresponding 
wilh  her  many  college  friends  and 
writing  for  the  newspaper. 

Sent  Christmas  cards 

She  said  that  before  Thanksgiving 
her  mother  came  across  addresses  for 
some  of  the  ships  and  of  the  Marine  unit 
stationed  in  Lebanon. 

"That  got  me  thinking  how  much  1 
would  miss  my  home  and  family  if  I 
were  over  there  for  the  holidays,"  she 
said.  "So  I  sent  Christmas  cards  wilh 
short  letters  lo  each  address." 

She  learned  later  that  Ihey  had 
been    posted    on    the    ships'    bulletin 


boards. 

25  curresDuod 

So  far.  Miss  Sherman  has  received 
lellers  from  25  .sailors  assigned  lo  duly 
on  the  USS  Guam,  USS  Trenton,  USS 
Barnstable  County,  and  Ihc  USS 
Manilowac  as  well  as  from  one  marine 
who  is  in  Ihe  22nd  Amphibious  Unit. 

All  the  men  expressed  gratitude  for 
the  support  received  from  the  "folks 
back  home"  and  pride  in  serving  their 
country,  she  said. 

"When     I     first     began     getting 
answers  to  my  letters,  it  just  gave  me  a 
good  feeling  to  know  1  had  brightened 
■someone's  day  a  little  bit." 
Adds  persone!  (ouch 

By  now,  she  has  received  several 
lellers  from  many  of  the  men  and 
always  replies  promptly  in  longhand 


Emergency  Info 

Next  Monday,  The 
SPOTLIGHT  will  publish  snow 
emergency  closing  information  for 
readers  lo  clip  and  save. 


be  part  of  their  lab  ex- 
perience in  di.splay,"  said  Robert  L. 
Lyons,  assistant  professor  of  retail 
management. 

"The  students  will  design  the  entire 
display  from  scratch.  They  will  change 
Ihe  display  every  two  weeks  for  a  total 
of  seven  limes  this  semester." 

He  added,  "The  four  sections  of 
Ihe  display  windows  will  each  carry  a  • 
separate  I  heme.' 


Skiing  at  Oregon  Hill 


There  will  be  skiing  at'  Oregon  Hill 
this  Wednesday,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremioiii,  coordmalor_of  in- 
tramural athletics  aird  College  activities. 

A  bus  will  Jeayc  _  the  Learning 
Resources  Center  (LRC)  al  5:30  p.m. 
and  return  lo  the  College  at  10  p.m. 

All  sludcnls  who  are  interested  in 
going  musi  firsi  sign  up  in  the  College^ 
activities  office.  Room  108,  Bardo 
Gym,  said  Mrs.  Fremioiii. 

Fees  are:  lift  only,  $7;  lift  and 
lessons,  $10;  and  lift,  lessons,  and  ren- 
tals, $15. 

Transporlalion  will  be  provided  by 


She  feels  it  adds  personal  touch,  she  ""^  <^""'6e  wi"i  "o  charge  to  students 
sajd  Oregon  Hill  is  located  at  Morris. 

'"1  really  like  the  mail  and  enjoy  There  is  a  special  area  for  beginners;  a 

getting  to  know  them  all  through  their  meandering,  novice  trail;  several  mam 

letters.     Besides,"  she  added,  "It's  a  slopes  ranging  from  mtermedtate  lo  ad- 

I    ,        ,.„      ,  vanced  terrain,  and  two  narrow,  expert 
great  way  to  i^eel  people  from  different  ^^.^  ^^^    p^^,^,.^„. 

places  without  traveling.  ^^-^^^  ^^^  ^^„,.„j^j_  ^|,^  ^^-^    ^f 


Ihc  skiers'  responsibility  code: 

1.  Ski  under  control  and  in  such  a 
manner  you  can  slop  or  avoid  other 
skiers  or  objects. 

2.  When  skiing  downhill  or  over-, 
taking  another  skier,  you  must  a»oid  the ' 
skier  below  you. 

3.  You  must  not  slop  where  you 
obstruct  a  trail  or  are  not  visible  lo 
other  skiers. 

4.  When  entering  a  trail  or  starling 
downhill,  yield  lo  other  skiers. 

5.  All  skiers  shall  wear  retention 
straps  or  other  devices  to  help  lo  pre- 
vent runaway  skis. 

6.  You  will  keep  off  closed  trails 
and  posted  areas  and  observe  all  posted 
signs. 

This  code  has  been  officially  en- 
dorsed by  Ihe  National  Ski  Areas 
Association,  Ski  Industries  America, 
Mrs.  Fremioiii  said. 


inSPOTLIbHTI  iMiinday.  Jin.  13.  I<IM 


Rod  Stewart's  'Body  Wishes' 

album  features  songs 

dealing  with  relationships 

says  reviewer  Kathrvn  M.  Gilbert 


As  one  of  rock's  superstars,  Rod 
Stewart  once  more  confirms  the  fact 
he  is  one  of  rock's  most  enduring  in- 
novative talents  His  16tln  solo  album. 
Body  Wishes,  follows  hiscrilicized 
platinum  album,  Tonight  I'm  Yours. 
and  his  recent  Absolutely  Live  album. 

The  album.  Body  Wishes,  reunites 
Stewart  with  producer  Tom  Dowd  who 
has  worked  with  him  on  several  other 
successful  albums  such  as  Footloose 
and  Fancy  Free.  Blondes  Have  More 
Fun, Night  on  the  Town.  Atlantic  Cross- 
ing    and     The     Greatest     Hits. 

Stewart's  latest  album,  Body 
Wishes,  features  10  exciting  songs  co- 
written  by  Stewart  and  various 
members  of  his  band  The  songs  on 
the  album  look  at  relationships  and  in 
dealing  with  the  subject 

Stewart  sings  some  of  the  most 
'tionest,  creative  lyrics  today  The 
songs  reflect  a  strong  positive  direction 
for  this  versatile  artist  who  admits  he  is 
feeling  comfortable  writing  what  he 
can  feel. 

DDQ 

Some  of  the  songs  from  the  Body 
Wishes  album  are  Ghetto  Blaster.  Dan- 
cin'  Alone,  and  the  hit  single.  Baby 
Jane,  along  with  a  couple  soulful 
ballads.  The  second  hit  single  is  What 
Am  I  Gonna  Do 

In  the  early  60s.  Stewart  played 
wiih  a   variely  ol  groups.      Stewart 


SPOTLIGHT 
Monday,  Jan.  23,  1984     -     Vol.  19.  No.  ig 

Trie  SPOTLIGHT  IS  published  each  f^ionday 
morning  of  Ihe  academic  year,  except  foi  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  journalism  and  other  In. 
teiested  students  of  The  Williamspof  t  Area  Com- 
munity College 

Office      Room  7,  Academic  Cenlei,   1005 
W      Third    Sf  ,     Wllliamsporl,     Pa      17701 
Telephone:  (7t7|  326-3761.  Exiension  221 


Opinions  expressed  are  those  of  Ihe  student 
newspaper  or  ol  those  whose  names  accmpany 
Items  Opinions  do  not  rellect  official  opinion  ol 
the  Instifuflon 


Tho  SPOTLIGHT  «  a  member  ol  itie  Colum- 
bia Schoiaslic  Press  Associanon  ana  a  Firsl 
Place  Winner  in  thai  organization 
evaluation 


THE  STAFF 

Joan  L   Thompson 

Petty  D    Peril; 

Managing  Faitor 

editorial  Page  Fdiit 

Lori  M.  Lane 

Mary  L    Pease 

Sporls  Fdifor 

Pnoiography  Fd'tc 

Thomas  F   Mon- 

tgomery 

Annelle  M    En-ii  ' 

Production  Super- 

visor 

Compositi"n 

Managei 

Thomas  H   Long 

Kay  M   Fracu 

Administrative  At- 

lairs  Fdiloi 

Student  Attairs 

Fditor 

Gisela  D   Grassley 

Barbi  L   Chilson 

Advertising 

Manager 

Photo  technician 

Gregory  W    Hulf 

Murray  J    Hanlord 

Senior  Statt  Wnler 

Statt  Arliyi 

played  with  Long  John  Baldry  in 
Steampacket  and  with  Peter  Green  and 
Mick  Fleetwood  in  Shotgun  Express 
Green  and  Fleetwood  later  became 
members  of  Fleetwood  fvlac  It  was 
not  until  Stewart  joined  Ihe  Jeff  Beck 
Group  In  the  late  60s  when  he  began 
coming  into  his  own 

He  later  joined  the  group.  The 
Faces,  and  remained  with  them  for 
seven  years  Being  lead  singer  of  this 
group  enhanced  his  success  through  a 
series  of  US  concert  appearances. 
He  recorded  seven  albums  with  this 
band  along  with  recording  his  solo 
albums  In  1 970.  he  recorded  The  Rod 
Stewart  Album  and  Gasoline  Alley 

Stewart  clinched  his  solo  star 
status  in  1971  with  his  third  album. 
Bvery  Picture  Tells  a  Story  He  has 
produced  many  albums  from  1970  un- 
til now 

a  D  D 

Stewart  has  been  working  on  a 
potential  American  tour  with  friend 
Elton  John  in  Ihe  near  future  They  are 
also  discussing  plans  for  a  joint  film 
venture  lor  1984  Stewart  attributes 
his  success  to  being  consistent  as 
possible  He  enjoys  making  and  per- 
forming music 

Stewart  is  in  the  middle  of  com- 
pleting a  schedule  for  one  of  the  largest 
concert  tours  of  his  career  He  plans, 
in  seven  months,  to  be  perlorming  in 
1 5  countries  His  1 983-84  tour  is  play- 
ing in  many  areas  in  which  he  has 
never  perlormed 

Whaddya' 
say...? 

Angela  D  Bur- 
food     and 
r  hospiialiiy    siudenl 
from  Linden:    "Nol 
loo    many    people 
have    a    chance 
The  way  they  were 
^  lalking  on   TV  lasl 
nighi.     they     were 
really     at     earh 
other's  throats  " 

o  I  h  y  J 
Graves,  refnqcr.v 
iion/air  condiiMui- 
ing  student  linn 
Susquehanii.i 
'■"Yes  Some  i 
pie  are  hepped  -i.. 
over  Reaganomics 
^nd  need  a 
clianqe  " 


REPORTERS/STAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Richard  E  Kopp,  Dnnna  M  Bar 
L  Card,  Kalhleen  R  Foreman,  Kalhry 
Gilberl,  Robeil  O  Hawk,  Shawn  W  Ho 
Rodney  D  Hill.  Lon  L  Holland,  Robei 
Minier.  Kathy  A  Meixel,  Anne  T  Moi 
James  K  Mornssey,  Mark  S  Schwai 
R    Taylor 

Faculty  advtser    Anthony  N   Cilli 


Production  Staff  Th(s  li 

Kalhryn  M   Gilbert.  Giseta  D   Grassley 
L   Holland.  Robert  W,  Minier.  Richard  E   K 


'Kiddie  porn':  tlie  next 
cliild  could  be  yours 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Sexual  abuse  ol  children  has  become  Ihe  best-selling  item  in  lilms.  books 
and  magazines    Childreri  are  the  currerii  "hoi"  item  in  Ihe  pornography  business 

"Kiddie  porn  "  includes  children  siarring  in  X-raied  movies  and  posing  lor 
magazine  photos  perlcjrmirig  all  sons  ol  repulsive  sex  acts  with  oilier  children  as 
well  as  adults 

This  burgeoning  interest  in  child  ptrrnography  created  an  increase  in  Ihe  sex- 
ual exploitation  ol  children  by  adults  throughout  the  nation 

A  Los  Angeles  police  report  estimated  30,000  children,  aged  six  m  16,  are 
being  sexually  exploiied  in  Ihat  city 

Dr  Judianne  Derisen-Gerber.  of  New  York,  an  avid  researcher  of  the  "Kiddie 
porn"  problem,  esiimaies  ihat  more  ihan  1.200.000  children  are  plrysically  in- 
volved nationwide 

All  this  involvement  takes  shape  as  the  seven  leading  sex  magazines  ol  top 
circulation  reach  a  combined  figure  of  Ihree  million  young  readers 

The  disqusiing  irony  til  ii  is  Ihat  laxpayeis  subsidize  the  largest  disiiibuHon  ol 
this  obscene  material  by  allowing  it  lo  be  serit  as  fourih-class  mail  wilhoul  proiest 
This  IS  perhaps  due  to  the  air  ol  permissiveness  rampanl  in  our  nation 

Behind  Ihe  moiivation  for  most  anything  is  money  The  almighty  dollar  is  Ihe 
sole  initiator  of  child  pornography  The  industry  pays  high  for  stolen  children  and 
Ms  members  laugh  all  the  way  lo  Ihe  bank  as  they  get  rich  off  of  the  bodies  ol 
children 

What  does  all  Ihis  mean"?  It  means  child  pornography  does  not  infiltrate  just 
one  facet  ol  society  II  is  not  an  isolated  problem  Places  such  as  Williamsport, 
Turboiville,  and  Linden  are  all  open  lo  Ihis  corruption  ol  soctely's  lowest  ele- 
menl 

Our  neighborhood  crime  watch  programs  and  watch  dogs  will  nol  slop  this 
sewer  of  pornographic  filth  from  spewing  from  any  corner  ol  Ihis  nation,  including 
this  lowni 

The  facts  are  threatening  and  everyone  who  has  a  child  has  something  to 
fear,  regardless  of  income  or  area  of  residence 

If  this  problem  is  ever  going  to  be  slopped,  it  will  take  concerned  parents  to 
move  Congress  to  pass  laws  againsi  the  procurement  ol  all  "pornographic 
material  and  to  strengthen  the  punishment  of  convicted  child  abductors. 

Ivlosi  ol  all.  keeping  tight  reigns  on  your  child  will  pieveni  his  or  her  chances 
ol  ending  up  anoiher  semi-clad  unlorlunaie  on  the  European  market 

Remember     To  someone  else,  the  child  could  be  yours 


Question:  Do  you  think 
ttie  Rev.  Jesse  Jacl(son  has  a 
chance  of  becoming  the 
Democratic  choice  for  Presi- 
dent? 

Question  was  asked  in  the 
Academic  Center. 

Photos  by  Mary  L.  Pease 
Text  by  Donna  IVI.  Barnett 


We.ndy  J    Nix- 

jeiieral  sludie's 

Irom 


Christine     I 

Plan,     arcniiniiii. 


ilitnlv     lie     ii, 


Lisa  L 

Houseknechi, 
business  manage- 
ment student  liom 
Hughesville 
Ihink  he  has  ,i 
^  chance  ol  geniini 
elected  He  h,, 
stong  poliiii  ,;' 
views  about  wh.ii 
he's  doing  He  s 
doing  good 

already  " 


3ui  It  would  be  nice 
I  he  did.  but  too 
nany  people  ate 
|i3iejudiced  " 


Jellrey  L 
Bailey,  machinist 
siudenl  from 

McVeylown    "No 
He     has     no     ex- 
perience " 


American  Diabetes  Association 
president  comments  on  aspartame 


lEditar's  Niile:  Tlii\  ilciii  mis 
(■(inliiliiiled  hy  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon, 
ustociuic  professor  of  fond  service  and 
dieielies.  Slie  said  questions  may  he 
dircewd  In  her  ill  her  office  in  ihe 
Academic  Ccnier.l 


Dr.  Allan  1,.  Drasli,  prcsidcnl  of 
Ihc  American  Diabclcs  Assdcialimi.  lias 
issued  a  siaicmcni  in  wliieli  he  .says 
"pccplc  willi  dialiclcs  can  lia\c 
niddciaic  aniounis  of  carbonaled  soil 
drinks  and  foods  llial  conlain  llie  non- 
caloric  swcelncr,  aspariamc." 

Dr.  Drash  sialcd  Ihc  nalional 
voluniary  licallh  organi/aiion's  posilion 
Ihai  "even  llioiigli  aspariamc  has  nol 
been  icslcd  cMcnsivcly  in  diabclic  pa- 
licnls,  curreni  medical  evidence  in- 
dicaicd  ihai  aspariamc  is  acccpiabic  as 
a  sugar  subsliiulc  and  can  be  included 
ina  diabclic  meal  plan  provided  ii  is  noi 
used  In  excessive  amounls." 

He  noied  Ihai  because  ihc  low- 
calorie  swcelncr  is  a  proicin,  ii  does  noi 
require  insulin  lo  be  mciaboli/'ed  and 
can  be  used  by  people  wilh  diabelcs. 

(Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associaie 
proles.sor  of  food  services  and  diclclics. 
conunenicd  ihal  aspariamc  coniains  Ihc 
amino  acid,  plenylalaninc,  and 
ihereforc  should  noi  be  allowed  for  per- 
sons wilh  plcnylkeionuria.  Furlhcr- 
inore,  she  said,  hcallhy  persons  should 
iKM  be  cxiravagani  in  Ihcir  consump- 
lion.)" 


Dieiary  needs  In  persons  wilh 
diabelcs  wiry.  Dr.  Dtasli  added.  Che 
associalion  is  rccouimcnding  ihai 
diabciics  consull  llieir  physicians  and 
hcalih  professionals  regarding  Ihc 
ainouni  and  siuirce  (if  nalnral  car- 
bohydiaies  as  well  as  Ihe  use  of  aspar- 
iamc In  Ihcir  daily  meal  plans. 

The  I-'ood  and  Drug  Aduiinislra- 
lioii  leccnlly  cslcndcd  lis  appnnal  of 
aspariamc  lo  diel  carbonaled  bc\crages 
and  wei  foods,  inclndiiig  iicaiinl  bniicr, 
jelly,  canned  friiiis,  and  juices.  Two 
years  ago,  ihc  TOA  approved  aspar- 
iamc for  use  as  a  lableiop  swecinei  and 
as  a  dry  food  addilivc. 

Aspariamc  coniains  four  calorics 
per  giain  and  is  nearly  200  limes  swcelcr 
Ihan  sugar.  Because  of  lis  Inlcnsc 
sweenlening  power,  only  a  very  small 
amouni  is  needed.  This  makes  iis 
caloric  inlake  virlually  insignificani  for 
boih  insulin-dependenl  and  non-insulin 
<iiabelics.      _ 

Evaluation  visit  results 
in  'very  positive'  outlook 


PBL  will  hold 

Ciinlimied  from  Page  /■■■ 
7,  and  8  will  be  discussed,  aceordlug  lo. 
Da\ld  A.  Haas,  PBI.  prcsldcni. 

l''uriheriuore,  members  will  discuss 
plans  and  appoiiii  conimillccs  for  ihc 
lOlh  annual  Business  F.duealion  Sym- 
posium. 

An  upcoming  PBl.-faeully  baskel- 
ball  game  In  l-'cbruary  and  orgagaiil/a- 
lion  of  a  icam  for  llic  upcoming  In- 
tramural volleyball  game  will  be  discuss- 
ed. 

Haas  added  llial  he  Is  urging 
business  and  coiiipuler  science  sludenls 
10  join  PBI.  now  In  order  lo  be  able  lo 
pariicipaie  in  acllvilics  lliis  spring. 

Membership  applicalions  are 
available  in  Ihc  PBI,  office.  Room  m. 
Academic  C'cnicr. 

"Members  and  prospecllvc 
members  are  urged  lo  allend  Ihc 
meciing  ihis  riiursdav,"  said  Haas. 


REMINDF.R: 

Sludenls  who  plan  lo  use  ihc 
gym  musi  show  Ihcir  validated 
College  ID  card  daily. 


A  visii  from  Middle  Slaies  Fvaliia- 
liini  leaiu  member  Dr.  Robeil  1..  dell 
lasl  Mcniday  rcsulied  in  a  "Very 
posiii\e"  oiiilook  for  Ihe  College,  ac- 
cordiiiu  lo  Miss  Riiih  A.  F-'ischci .  slecr- 
iiig  cominilicc  siiiclciil  icpicscniaiivc  of 
lire  Ump  Range  Phinniiiu  proccs! 


iiimuiinuiiuiiiiuuiiiiiiiiii 


iiuiiiniiiiiiiiiiitiHiiiiiHiiuiiiiniiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiHiiiiiHniiihiiiiiiiiHiuiintiniiiii 


Get  the  high-tech  career 
you  want  when  you  want  it. 


The  Navy's  Delayed  Entry  Program  can  guarantee 
you  the  training  you  want,  when  you  want  it. 

Gktalify  and  you  choose  the  training  you  want  from 
over  60  career  areas.  Then  you  may  have  up  to  one 
I  full  year  before  you  report. 

That  gives  you  time  to  do  what  you  want  to  do— finish 
school,  travel  or  just  relax.  When  you  begin  the  Navy 
adventure,  you  begin  with  training  in  sophisticated 
fields  like  computers,  electronics,  nuclear  power  or 
communications.  Then  you  get 
important  on-the-job  experi- 
ence that  lets  you  become  a 
master  at  the  career  you 
chose  while  you  travel 
to  places  like  Greece, 
Spain  and  Hong 
Kong. 

To  find  out  more 
about  the  ad- 
vantages of  the 
Navy's  Delayed 
Entry  Program, 
see  your  guidance 
counselor  or  call 
your  local  Navy 
representative: 

1-800-692-7823 


TS  NOrJUSTAJOB:^^ 
rs  ANAO/EmVRE^^ 


I  he  purpose  of  Dr.  (iell's  visil  was 
10  observe  Ihc  College  and  lo  sec  if  llic 
iiisliluliim  was  prepared  hir  ihe  full  visii 
in  April.  The  Icam,  consisling  of  coni- 
immily  college  adminislialors  and 
Iriislecs,  will  be  on  campus  April  9  and 
lU. 

'  **'"NnW,"1ff  (TTi-.tVClf)  P!tn 'TWy-rhr— 
Williamsporl  Area  Coumiiiniiy  College 
is  im  Ihc  Irack,  ready  for  Ihc  visll,"  said 
Dr.  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of  cduca- 
lional  research,  planning  and  cvalua- 
liim. 

Dean  Hurley  said  Ihai  copies  of  Ihc 
asscssmcnl  rcporl,  fad  book,  planning 
inannal.  annual  rcporl.  College 
calaloguc,  program  brochures,  and 
vocal  iinial  malcrials  will  be  forwarded 
10  Ihc  leam  members  prior  lo  ihe  visila- 
limi. 

"Anylhing  which  gives  Ihcm  a  bel- 
Icr  feel  for  Ihc  inslilulion,"  said  Dean 
Hurley,  "in  Ihc  way  of  malcrials,  will 
be  seni  lo  Ihcm." 

Miss  Pischer  said  llial  ll  is  very  im- 
porianl  llial  sludenls  know  aboul  Ihc 
icam's  visll. 

"Team  members  will  be  randomly 
slopping  sludenls  in  ihc  hallways  lo  find 
oiii  how  sludenls  feel  abiuil  llic  College 
laculiy  and  admlnisiralion,"  she  added. 

"We're  now  in  Ihe  'acliim  plan' 
pari  of  ilie  long  range  planning  process, 
which  cinilains  llie  Inslilulicmal  goals 
and  objeclives  and  (which)  idenlillcs 
llial  we  call  ihe  liiiplemenlalion 
sliaicgies  for  accredilalion,"  said  Dean 
Hurley. 

KiDi:  m^:kdki) 

Hcnialc     sliidiiil     needs     ililc     In 

.knsci  Shmr  on  M Ia\.  Wi'ilneSihiv, 

and  Kridat  arnuiid  12  >>r  t  p.m.  Also 
on  lues(hi\  and  iiiinsdax  arniiiid  2 
li.iii.    Will  \n\  li.ri;as.    (all  .!<;X-IM56. 

Will,  1)0  TYPING 

Will  Ivpe  resumes,  Irrm  papers, 
elc.  (all  .127-1675.  lues.-lhiirs.,  5:30 
III  II  p.m. 


SPOII.KillT    Mundat.  Jan.  2J.  I9M    3 

A  week's  review 

of  television 
interrupts  studying 

...says  reviewer  Gisela  D.  Grassley 

Second  week  of  classes  and 
already  n's  time  to  review  the  "lube" 
Well,  like  every  other  good  sludenl. 
I've  got  my  nose,  eyes  and  ears  in  lex- 
tbooks  Rut  I  did  lind  lime  lor  a  few 
short  glimpses  at  Mr   Tube 

On  Monday,  I  found  Alter  MASHs 
Father  Mulcahy  all  wrapped  up  in  red 
tape,  trying  to  gel  Itie  VA  lo  pay  for  his 
ear  operation 

I  II  III 

On  Tuesday,  I  almost  encountered 
an  an  battle  with  the  A-TEAM.  but  I 
swilclied  lo  Channel  16's  Foul-Ups. 
Biceps  and  Blunders,  where  I  found 
Steve  Lawrence  and  Dori  Rickles  in- 
troducing clips  from  television  shows, 
movies  and  commercials  Happy  Days 
came  my  way  al  8:30  p  m  Joanieheld 
her  lirsi  leaching-assislanl  job  and  Fon- 
dle had  lo  rescue  tier  Irom  a  lusting 
hoodlum 

No  Wednesday  is  complete  for  me 
without  Dynasty  But  this  week  nol 
much  sclieming  was  going  on,  Blake 
lold  Fallon  lo  be  careful  about  her  hotel 
expansion  plans,  and  Steven  was  mak- 
ing plans  Irt  move  his  family  back  into 
Ihe  mansion 

I  II  II  I 

On  Thursday.  I  flipped  a  coin; 
Hugh  Down's  20/20  won  with  a  report 

Street  Blues-belier  luck  next  week 
Friday.    I    enjoyed    Peanuts    and 


hortn^  \^9A  ^.i"'";  "lifl  ^^1  hav/o  \c\  6av"ift^ 

This  Goodbye  Charlie  Brown''"  Al 
8  30,  I  watched  highlights  of  Bugs  Sun- 
ny in  Ihe  California  gold  rush  and  fron- 
tier escapades  with  Yosemiie  Sam, 
Dafty  Duck  and  Porky  Pig 
1  II  IL  I 

I  am  sorry  to  say  thai  1  neglecled 
lo  walch  Dallas.  Falcon  Crest,  and  Matt 
Houston  Ihal  night  It  was  Friday  night 
9pm,  primetime  television  lime,  but 
my  dale  arrived  9:05  p  m 

Television  is  fine,  when  I  find  the 
time  But  for  me  it's  back  lo  the  lex- 
IbocAs  Unless,  of  course,  Hitl  SIreel 
Blues  wins  by  the  flip  of  the  coin  Ihis 
week  Then  this  Thursday  I'll  be  view- 
ing Mr    Tube  once  again 


WILDCAT 

BAND 

.•• 

Meels  on  Tliiirsrlays 
from  5:30  10  7  p.m. 
in  ACC  Auditor iitm 

New  members  needed. 

Any  stmlents.faeidly.  or  staff 

iitlcresled  in  playing 

in  u  juzz  I'and  are 


welai 


F  lo  tiny  Thursday  nieeliii); 
e  Mr.  Shaw  in  die  Science 
Trailer  (Phone  hcl.  }67.) 


4i    SI'OTIICin     M.indav,  Jiiii    21,   l')S4 


POSING  FOR  (he  piciurc  arc  Ihc  Wildcal  volunlcir  cheerleaders.  iKirsl  niw  lefl 
Id  ri)>hl)  I).  Manac  Deaner,  secrclarial  science  student  from  Millville;  Kathy  L. 
Titus,  general  studies  student  from  Jersey  Shore,  and  (iemma  M.  Campana, 
(■eneral  studies  student  from  Williamsport.  (Second  row  left  to  right)  Sherry  L. 
Benninger,  secretarial  science  student  from  Mansfield  and  Sheryi  K.  Avery, 
dietary  technician  student  from  Troy.   (SPOTLIGHT  plmlo  by  Lori  L.  Hollaiu/) 


Action  begins  in  new 
IM  basketball  league 

The  men's  baskclball  league  will 
begin  lis  action  lomorrow  al  6:30  p.m. 
when  the  Yuckalaners  play  the  Bums. 

A  game  schedule  will  be  posted  in 
the  Bardo  Gym  along  with  a  sign  up 
shed  for  olbci  intcreslcd  Icanis,  accor- 
ding 10  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmioiti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  alhlclics  and  Col- 
lege activities. 


Soccer  starts  Thursday 

The  first  intramural  soccer  game 
will  be  played  Thursday,  6:.W  until  8:30 
p.m.,  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmioiti.  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

InlcrcMcd  sludcms  who  haven't 
signed  up  previously  may  call  College 
Ext.  269,  or  go  lo'lhe  gym  Thursday  al 
game  lime,  added  Mrs.  Frcmioiti. 


Roller  skating  this  Wednesday 

"  •"—    skating    will     begin    '''" 


Roller 


this 


Wednesday  al  Skating  Plus,  Via  Bella 


Price    for    any    non-sludcnl 


but  students  must  provide  Ihcii  own 
iransporlaiion.  Skalc  rcnials  will  cosl 
75  cents. 


and     William     Sircci,     downtown    '"""^'1  '"  S'-mg  will  be  $1,  but  they 
Williamsport,  according  to  Mrs.  .loAini    "'"'''    '"■'''   "'"""■■'    Mrs.    Frcmioiti    In 
R.  Frcmioiti,  coordinator  of  inlraninral    R'"""  '08.  Bardo  Gym. 
alhlclics  and  College  aciivilies.  '^'"^  "'■''i'  's  sponsored  by  the  Siu- 

Skaling  will  be  free  with  College  ID    '''■'"'   ("wrnmenl   Association   (.SGA). 
Mrs.  Frcmiolli  said. 

AnycMic  wilh  qiicslions  may  coii- 
l,Hl  Mis.  Frcmiolli  al  F\l.  269. 

Volleyball  clinics 
beginning  soon 

Students  inlercslcd  in  intramural 
volleyball  as  a  participant/official  may 
sign  up  in  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym,  at- 
cording  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

A  deadline  to  turn  in  volleyball 
rosters  on  nc\l  Monday,  Jan.  .30,  has 
been  csiabli,shed. 

"Clinics  wil  be  scheduled  in  which 
students  can  learn  rules  and  rcgulalions. 
The  time  can  also  be  used  for  praclicc 
items  for  participants,"  added  Mrs. 
Frcmiolli. 


Watch  Wildcat 
Basketball 

Bardo  Gym 


Quad  is 
prison. 


Brilish  slang  word  for 


According  to  Egyptian  Religion. 
Osiris,  who  was  the  king  and  judge  of 
the  dead,  llic  husband  and  brother  of 
Isis  and  lather  of  Horns,  was  killed  by 
Set.  but  was  later  rcsuriccled. 


Volunteer  cheerleaders 
help  arouse  team  spirit 


By  Lori 
Sports 

Although  chccrleadiiig  was  anunig 
iliose  aciivilies  cut  from  thp  College 
budgei,  several  women  have  volunteered 
to  cheer  for  ihe  men's  basketball  team. 

Sherry  L.  Benningcr,  .secretarial 
science  student  fnmi  Mansfield  stated, 
"I  came  to  a  home  game  and  rcali/ed 
ilic  leant  and  the  .school  needed  scmic 
spirit." 

Miss  Benninger,  a  former 
cheerleader,  decided  to  gel  a  group  of 
girls  together  who  were  inlercslcd. 

The  members  of  the  "squad"  arc 
I).  Manac  Deaner.  secretarial  science, 
MilKillc:  Gcinnia  M.  Cani|)ana,  general 
Miidics,  Williamsport;  Kathy  L.  lilns. 
gcncial  studies,  Jersey  Shore,  and 
Slicrvl    K.    Avcrv,    dicieiic    technician. 


M.  Lane 
Kdilor 

Troy. 

Alicr  forming  Ihe  squad,  the  girls 
approached  Harry  C.  .Speclil,  assislani 
professor  of  physical  education,  to  see  if 
their  efforts  would  be  acceptable. 

.Spcclit  lent  them  uniforms  that 
were  used  in  previous  years;  they 
bought  identical  sneakers  to  ciunplclc 
their  attire. 

The  girls  practice  on  their  own 
almost  every  night,  according  to  Miss 
Benninger. 

Their  ccnicern  has  helped  arouse 
team  spirit  and  also  may  have  helped 
wilh  game  attendance  which  doubled 
since  Ihe  last  game.  The  coach.  Louis  J. 
Mcnago.  said  he  and  the  icain  members 
appreciate  Ihc  girls'  interest. 


Tom  McNamee  scores  22 
in  men's  basketball  action 


The  men's  basketball  team  suffered 
a  hard  loss  last  Tuesday.  Jan.  17.  when 
Northampton  County  Area  Community 
College  made  a  comeback  and  defeated 
the  Wildcats.  79  to  72. 

The  Wildcats  could  have  held  on. 
providing  they  would  have  been  as  con- 
sislant  at  the  boards  as  they  were  in  the 
first  half,  according  to  Coach  Louis  J. 
Menago.  machine  shop  instructor. 

"We  sent  them  (Northampton)  to 
the  foul  line  too  many  times  because  we 
were  too  hesitant  on  the  presses  we 
use,"  stated  Menago. 

Besides  the  defense  not  working. 


the  team  couldn't  quite  get  the  offense 
together  either,  they  lost  their  52  percent 
shooting  mark  in  the  first  half  and  drop- 
ped to  32  percent  in  the  second. 

Tom  C.  McNamee.  .  business 
management  student  from 
Williamsport,  scored  22  points  and  shot 
70  percent  from  the  floor.  Also  scoring 
i.n.  double  figures  was  Richard  A.  Sut- 
ton, construction  carpentry  student 
from  Towanda. 

Attendance  has  increased  at  the 
home  games  and  student  participation  is 
appreciated,  added  Menago. 


IN  AIIKMPl  to  score,  l)a\e  Fhly,  lood  and  hospitalty  student  from  Fast 
Berlin,  plows  over  a  Northampton  player,  while  an  opposing  team  member  wat- 
ches for  the  rebound.  (SPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Liiri  M.  Liiiicl 


New  team  member 
Charles  Johnson 


SPOII.IGHT    Monitat.  Jan.  23.  IM4 


IM  bowling  results  listed 


The  first  inlramural  bowling  league 
game  for  (he  fall  semester  was  played 
last  Tuesday  at  ABC  Lanes. 

Results  according  to  the  Lanes' 
management  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

Wins  Lasses 

1.  Unprediclables 

2          1 

2.  Dew  Crew 

2          1 

3.  High  Rollers 

2          1 

4.  CU-JO 

2          1 

5.  The  Mad  Halters 

2          1 

6.  Head  Pins 

7.  The  Cillo-Etts 

8.  Flintstones 

9.  Destroyers 

10.  Bonehcads 

Charles  E.  Johnson,  automotive  student  from  Williamsport  is  a 
-  new  addition  to  the  Wildcat  basketball  team.  At  6  feet,  Johnson  has 
great  leaping  ability  and  is  an  asset  to  the  team,  according  to  Coach 
Louis  J.  Menago,  machine  shop  instructor. 

"Johnson  ("C.J.")  handles  the  ball  well  and  is  a  very  aggressive 
dclcnsivc  player,"  commented  Menago.  (SPOTLIGHT pholns  bv  Lori 
M.  Lane) 

Student  ID  will  be  processed 

next  Monday  at  North  Campus 

Student  idenlificalioii  cards  will  be 
processed  and  validated  for  the  spring 
.semester  at  the  North  Campus  ncvt 
Monday,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotii,  coordinali>r  of  imramural 
athletics  and  College  acllviles. 

Times  for  all  students  will  be  from 
10  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  she  said. 


Men's  high  single 

Doug  E.  Mayer,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Williamsport,  bowl- 
ed a  236. 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton, 
bowled  a  222. 

Kirk    D.    Zohn,    air    condition- 
ing/refrigeration    student     from 
Fredericksburg,  bowled  a  212. 
Women's  high  single 
Denise  M.  King,  .secretarial  science 
student  from  Cogan  Station,  169. 

Cindy  M.  Cekovich,  floriculture 
student  from  Mechanicsburg,  148. 

Linda  S.  Shoup,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Elvsburg,  144. 
High  learn  single 
Flint.stoncs,  883. 
Dew  Crew,  828. 
The  Mad  Hatters,  827. 

Men's  high  series 
Seber  bowled  a  631. 
Zohn,  592. 
Mayer,  580. 

Women's  high  series 
King,  445. 


Shoup,  396. 

Denise     M.     McNeil,     computer 
science>sludent  from  Williamsport,  37  L 
High  team  series 

CU-JO,  bowled  a  2368. 

High  Rollers,  2351. 

Unpredictables,  2344. 
Tnp  five  averages 

Seber  bowled  a  210. 

Zohn,  197. 

Mayer,  193. 

Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business 
management  student  from 
Williamsport,  185. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Shohola,  177. 

CORRECTION 
The  basl<elball  story  published  in 
last  weel('s  SPOTLIGHT  conlained  an 
error  It  was  reported  that  the  Wildcals 
played  Luzurne  College  inslead  of 
Lehigh  Counly  Community  College 


CONCENTRATING  on  the  gamf  is 
Dan  J.  McKean,  electrical  lechnnliig) 
sludenl  from  Shoholn  during  in- 
lramural bowling  action  last  Tuesday. 

(SPOTLIGHT  plmto  by  Lori  M.  Lane) 


Quit  smoking? 

Tried  everything  to  quit  smoking? 
The  following  tips  provided  by  the 
Lycoming  County  Health  Improvement 
Program  (CHIP)  may  help. 

1.  Decide  positively;  quitting  is 
the  best  thing  to  do. 

2.  Make  your  quit  date  sacred. 
Don't  let  anything  change  it. 

3.  Ask  a  friend  or  spouse  to  quit 
with  you. 

4.  Don't  empty  the  ashtrays.  This 
will  remind  you  of  how  many  cigarettes 
you  have  smoked  and  the  sight  and 
smell  of  the  stale  butts  will  be  very 
unpleasant. 

5.  Strike  up  a  conversation  with 
someone  instead  of  a  match  for  a 
cigarette. 

6.  Find  new  habits:  swim,  jog, 
wash  your  hands  or  the  dishes. 

7.  Start  brushing  your  teeth  after 
every  meal  instead  of  lighting  up  a 
cigarette. 

8.  When  you  get  the  crazies... keep 
low  caloric  substitutes  on  hand:  car- 
rots, raisins,  sugarless  gum,  celery. 

9.  Get  yourself  a  big  calendar  and 
mark  off  your  progress  at  the  end  of 
each  day. 

10.  Make  a  list  of  things  you 
would  like  to  buy.  Inslead  of  buying 
I  iL'arettes,  put  the  money  aside  until  you 
have  enough  to  buy  what  you  want. 

11.  Don't  be  afraid  to  ask  your 
doctor  for  help  in  quilting. 


Intramural 

Sports 
Schedule 

400r(»day 
Wrestling...  4:15  to  6:15  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8  to  10  p.m. 
Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Wrestling...  7  to  9  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8  to  10  p.m. 
Weight  room..,  4  to  10  p.m. 
Bowling...  4  p.m. 
Basketball  league...  6:30  p.m. 

Wedne.sday.  Jan.  25 
Wrestling...  4:15  to  6:15  p.m. 
Open  gym...  6:30  to  10  p.m. 
Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Thursday.  Jan.  26 
Wrestling...  7  to  9  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8  lo  10  p.m. 
Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 
Soccer...  6:30  to  8  p.m. 


Tennis  meeting  today 

A  meeting  will  be  held  for  students 
interested  in  joining  the  men's  tennis 
team  at  4  p.m.  today  in  the  Bardo  ^ 
Gym,  according  to  Coach  James  S. 
Young,  carpentry  instructor. 

Interested  persons  who  cannot  at- 
tend the  meeting  should  call  College 
Ext.  476. 


(;K1T1NG  assistance  from  Bruce 
Mack,  uf  Queens,  N.V.,  is  Rnchelle  Y. 
Whaley,     8,     of     Williamsport. 
(SPOTLIGHT    pliolo     bv     Lori     L. 
Hollaml) 


Ill  JSPOTLKiHTI  IMnndiy.  Jan.  2].  I4II4 


Dr.  Doyle  to  give  review 
this  week  at  Brown  Library 


Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor  of 
governmenl,  history,  sociology  and 
philosophy,  will  review  William  Man- 
chester's 1983  biography.  The  Last 
Lion,  Winston  Spencer  Cliiircliill:  Vi- 
sions of  Glory,  1874-1932  this  Friday 
al  the  James  V.  Brown  Libary  in 
downtown  Williamsporl. 


REVIEW  fhis  week  will  he  prescnied 
by  Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor  of 
governmenl  and  hi.«lory.  (SPOTLIGHT 

file  pliiilo) 


The  program  is  sponsored  by  the 
Friends  of  the  Library  and  is  open  to 
the  public. 

The  review  will  commence  al  12:20 
p.m.  in  the  Children's  Room.  It  will 
follow  a  book  review  luncheon  al  noon; 
reservations  must  be  made  in  advance 
for  the  luncheon  through  the  library. 

The  book  is  the  first  of  a  planned 
Iwo-volumc  study,  rich  in  historical  and 
social  contexts,  touching  on  the  core  of 
Churchill's  personality. 

It  begins  with  a  survey  of  the  laic 
Victorian  society  into  which  Churchill 
was  born  and  ends  in  1932,  the  year 
after  he  quit  politics.  The  text  covers, 
(ireal  Britain's  politics,  government  and 
forcgin  relations  from  1901  to  1936  and 
chronicles  the  flow  of  power  moving 
towards  confrontation  and  combat. 

Dr.  Doyle,  a  resident  of  Muncy, 
received  his  bachelor  of  arts  degree  from 
Maryknoll  Seminary  in  Illinois  and 
earned  both  his  master  of  arts  and  his 
doctor  of  philosophy  degrees  in  history 
al  St.  John's  University  in  New  York. 

He  also  has  done  post-graduate 
sludy  for  the  National  Endowment  for 
Ihc  Humanities  seminars  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  California  al  Los  Angeles 
(UCLA)  and  al  Brown  Univcrssily. 

Currently,  he  is  writing  a 
biographical  piece  on  Churchill  to  be  in- 
cluded in  a  book  on  Twentieth  Century 
European  Figures  set  for  publication 
early  in  1985. 


Religion  is  theme  for  noontime  films 


Religion  is  the  theme  of  the  films- 
sandwiched-in  program  to  be  seen  at 
noon  this  Wednesday  in  the  Community 
Room  of  the  James  V.  Brown  Library  in 
downtown  Williamsporl. 

"Catholicism:  Rome,  Leeds  and 
the  Desert"  visits  Rome,  Spain  and 
England  to  explore  the  diversity  and  the 


unity  of  the  Catholic  religious  ex- 
perience. 

Viewers  are  allowed  to  bring  a 
paper  bag  lunch.   Coffee  will  be  served. 

The  film  classic,  "Peter  and  the 
Wolf"  is  scheduled  at  9:30  and  10:30 
a.m.  and  al  4  p.m.  this  Thursday  in  the 
Children's  Room. 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 


50%  off 


Entire  Stock 

of  Ladies'  and  Men's 


Corduroys 

by  Lee,  Wrangler,  Levis,  Chic 


Offer  only  valid  mlh  RECULMlJLI'KICi:i>  mercliamlise 
— Biiiit^Miiiniiimiiiiiiiirfiip  ^  save  imiimiipmnimjjjir--"' 


MIKES  PliACE 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Wi  I  Moms  port.  Ph.  322-1  T  ]2 
Moo. -Wed.  &  Sa(.  9:30  (o  5      Thurs.  &  Fri.  9:30  l.»  9 


ACROSS 
1  Bridge 

8  Encourage 

12  Healthy 

13  Possessed 

14  Festive 

15  Native  metal 

16  Bishop's 


18  Precious 

19  Latin 
conjunction 

20  Fruit  seeds 

21  Babylonian 
deity 

23  Pronoun 

24  Girls  name 
26  Medlter- 

28  Frighten 

29  Crony: 

30  Nahoor 

32  Landed 

33  Evil 


3  Beer 

4  Compass 

5  Color 

6  Grain:  pi. 

7  Poem 

8  Symbol  for 

9  Container 

10  Ingredients 

1 1  Domesticate 

16  Underground 
excavation 

17  Walk 
unsteadily 

20  Saucy 
22  Near 

25  Lift 

26  Mournful 

27  Bar  legally 

28  Weaken 

29  Cushion 


IH 


DQ  DGII  aU 

QQQ    EIDEIDC]    BGD 

QQOE]    DDCID 
IQESDQEI  DDBEIO! 


Mii 


31  Hard-wood 

33  Conjunction 

34  Toward 
shelter 

36  Smaller 

37  Caravansary 

39  Note  of 

40  Classifies 

41  Frenchman 


42  Sea  eagle 

44  Tableland 

45  Partner 

46  Employed 
46  Sum  up 

50  Vigor:  colloq. 

51  Opening 

53  Babylonian 

54  Parent: 
colloq. 


Siamese 

3^ 

^ 

1 

^ 

i 

» 

9 

10 

- 

15 

" 

36  Mire 

37  Wallow 
through  mud 

^5 

i 

^m 

'" 

« 

i 

1 

.  .p 

. 

38  Redact 

40  Leak  through 

i 

H 

I" 

J' 

_n 

w 

..| 

u 

M 

goddess 

3r 

■  "1  _LH 

45  Greek  letter 
47  Macaw 

35 

I'M      1      ■ 

iVM''l  1  ■ 

tt> 

^M 

49  Musical 

''■ 

XII 

H45 

4« 

51  Aeriform  fluid 

n 

j«pr 

55  Castor  and 

55 

b 

■ 

Pollux's 

55 

5« 

_ 



_ 

56  Dance  step 


Homeowners  target  of  two-year  series 
of  'home  courses'  offered  by  College 


The  College  recently  embarked  on 
a  new  program  to  aid  homeowners  and 
others  in  the  repair  and  maintenance  of 
their  homes. 

The  courses  are  being  offered  by 
the  College's  Construction  Technology 
Division  in  cooperation  with  the  Center 
for  Lifelong  Education. 

According  to  information  provided 
by  the  College  Information  Office,  the 
series  is  designed  to  provide  basic  skills 
in  planning  projects,  estimating  costs, 
installing  fixtures  and  wiring,  and  in 
repairing  or  making  additions  to  the 
home. 

Uniquely,  the  instruction  will  be 
held  in  the  student's  home. 

The  scries  will  be  offered  over  a 
two-year  period  beginning  with  instruc- 
tion in  the  following  courses:  Design  for 
the  Homeowner,  Carpentry  for  the 
Homeowner,  and  Plumbing  for  the 
Homeowner. 

Other  courses  in  the  scries  are 
Masonry  for  the  Homeowner,  Cabinet- 
making  for  the  Homeowner,  Interior 
Finishing  for  the  Homeowner,  Electrici- 
ty for  the  Homeowner,  Patios  and 
Decks  for  Ihc  Homeowner,  Woodwork- 
ing for  Ihc  Homeowner,  and  Wood- 
finishing  for  Ihc  Homeowner. 

Design  for  the  Homeowner,  which 
was  to  have  begun  Jan.  19  and  is 
scheduled  to  conclude '  March  22,  is 
designed  to  provide  a  basic  knowledge 
of    home    design    concepts    involving 


space,  function,  and  environmental 
needs.  The  class  meets  from  6:30  to 
9:30  p.m.  on  Thursdays. 

Carpentry  for  the  Homeowner  is 
designed  to  develop  basic  carpentry 
skills  needed  by  the  homeowner.  This 
courses  was  to  have  begun  Jan.  21  and 
is  to  conclude  March  24.  Classes  are 
from  8  a.m.  to  noon  on  Saturdays. 

Plumbing  for  the  Homeowner,  an 
introduction  to  basic  plumbing  in  the 
home,  also  was  to  have  begun  Jan.  21. 
The  class  is  scheduled  to  conclude 
Match  24.  Participants  in  this  class  will 
repair/install  bathroom  and  kitchen  fix- 
lures  in  their  homes.  The  class  meets 
from  8  a.m.  lo  noon  on  Saturdays. 

Dr.  Ralph  A.  Home,  Construction 
Technology  Division  director,  praised 
Ihe  prograiji  calling  the  courses  "ex- 
Iremely  helpful  to  the  homeowner  in 
Ihat  they  provide  pertinent  informaliim 
and  skills  in  short,  ecmiomical  blocks." 

Interested  individuals  may  contact 
Ihe  College's  Center  for  Lifelong  Educa- 
licni  for  additional  information  regar- 
ding the  courses  or  Ihe  series. 


A  ficxiblo  arnnn  liaiing  a  pioicc- 
livc  cMcrior  of  scales  or  small  plalcs  is 
known  as  a  mail. 


Ihc  Laptev  Sea  is  a  part  of  ihc 
Arctic  Ocean. 


Is  the  College 
to  be  closed? 

Coming  Nexi  U'eek:  Cmnpleie  review  nj  pnicedure  iimilved  when 
weather  emergency  may  came  College  to  be  closed. 

Where  to  listen 


WNEP-TV 

Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 


WFRM 

Coudersport 

WATS 

Sayre 

WPGM 

Danville 

WQBQ 

Selinsgrove 

WSQV 
Jersey  Shore 

WFXX 

South  Wiliiamsporl 

WMLP 

MiKon 

WKOK 
Sunbury 

WBPZ 

Lock  Haven 

WTTC 

Towanda 

SI>(>ll.l(;Hr    Mimdl).  Jan.  23.  I9M    7 


WNBT 

Wellsboro 

J104 
Muncy 

WWPA 

Wiliiamsporl 

WRAK/WKSB 

Wiliiamsporl 

WILQ/WLYC 

Wiliiamsporl 


Scholarship 
Opportunity 

Infonmlion  by  Finatwiat  Aid  Office 
iV  \\-  •:.-  The  Financial  Aid  Office  has  ap- 
plicalions  for  the  Best  Prodiiclions 
Fouiidalion  schoiarship  program.  The 
program  is  designed  for  sludenls  enroll- 
ed in  vocalioital-technical  programs  not 
leading  lo  a  Bachelor's  Degree.  In  llie 
past.  Ihese  scholarships  have  helped 
sludenls  pursue  careers  as  nurses,  x-rav 
technicians,  cooks,  barbers,  buichers. 
secretaries,  data  processing  prograni- 
iiicri.,  and  word  processing  technicians. 
•p>  iV  •t'jE/igible  applicants  must  have 
completed  high  school  and  must  be 
enrolled  in  a  vocational-technical  pro- 
gram. Awards  range  from  $300  to 
$1,000  attd  may  be  renewed  for  the  se- 
cond acadetnic  year.  Winners  are 
selected  on  the  basis  of  participation  in 
scliool/cotntiiunity  activities,  prior  work 
experience,  past  educational  perfor-. 
ftiance,  financial  need,  and  job  market 
opportunities  in  your  field  of  study. 
•/.  '■■■  '.Applications  must  be  postmarked 
by  April  I,  1984.  For  an  application 
brochure,  please  contact  the  Financial 
Aid  Ofruv.  Room  201  in  the  Academic 


New  Center 
to  be  dedicated 
to  Sen.  Hager 

ilic  lU'w  I  ilcliiiig  I'diitji  1(111 
Cciilcr,  picsciilly  iiiulci  uniMruiliiiii  dii 
llic  inaiii  airnpii'-.  will  be  dcclknicd  [o 
S\:\W  Sen.  Henry  (i.  Hatiei  al 
eeieinimles  id  be  held,  leiilailvely.  In 
niid-Mav. 

Aeeoiding  ici  Dr.  Rdbeil  I,. 
lireuder.  Colleiie  piesideni.  ilie  Bdaid 
111  liusiees  unaiMiniuisly  appioved  llic 
dedieaiidii.  as  Sciiainr  Hai'er  was  very 
iiiMiiiincnial  in  allniaeiiit!  Iiinds  lor  ilie 
Siaiie  II  biilklini!  pinutaiii. 

He  aiianj!ed  Icr  $S  iiiilliiin  lur  use 
by  llie  Cdllet^e  loi  lliis  pidf^iain,  wliieli 
iiiiliicled  llie  I  ileliiiis  |-,diiealion  Ceiiler. 

Dr.  Hrciidei  reioniineMdcd  ilic 
dediealioii  al  llie  Ian.  5  niecliiig  iil  ilie 
iriisiees  heeaiise  nl'  "llie  luiislandnii! 
ediiiiniiinenl  iir.Senaini  Haider  hi  iibiain 
stale  and  piiblie  luiidiiit!  Inr  iliis  and 
ulliei  eapilal  ennsliiielidii  and  lemna- 
lidii  pidjeels  al  llie  Cdlleee." 

riie  dedieaiidii  leienidines  will  In- 
eiiule  plaienieiii  dl  ,i  ineiiMnial  plac|iie 


Highspeed 
High  Fidelity. 


yiLPINE 

cat  audio  systems 

M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

25  W.  Church  Si.     iWllllam.sporl 

(In  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building) 
^(Behind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)i= 


Distinguished  Teacher  Award 
nomination  forms  now  available 


I'hc  Dislingnished  Tcaelier  Award 
nomhnaliiig  forms  now  arc  available 
around  ihc  College. 

Sludenls  may  fill  oul  one  of  Ihc 
I'oniis  10  nominalc  Ihc  Icaehcr  of  Ihcir 
chciiec  for  Ihis  award,  aeeordiug  lo  Dr. 
Robcrl  G.  Bowers,  cxceulivc  as.slslanl 
for  iiiiernal  affairs. 

The  forms  may  be  picked  up  al 
various  loealions  on  llie  main  campus 
including  Ihc  Learning  Resources 
Ccnier,  Ihc  Traiisporlalion 
Technologies  Divisiiin  Office,  the  In- 
Iramural  Alhlclics  and  College  Ae- 
liviiics  Office  in  Ihc  Ciymnasium,  Ihc 
Ccnlcr  for  Lifelong  Educalion,  ihc  In- 
formalion  Ccnlcr,  and  Dr.  Bower's  of- 
fice (Room  207,  Adminislralion 
Building). 


Nomiiialing  forms  may  also  be 
found  al  ihc  Earlh  Science  Campus,  Ihc 
Norlli  Campus,  and  al  Ihc  Avialion 
Campus,  added  Dr.  Bowers. 

Deadline  for  reluming  Ihc  forms  is 
March  I.  They  may  be  lakcn  lo  Dr. 
Bower's  office. 

Geronimo! 

There  arc  scheduled 
quizzes...  pop  quizzes...  multiple 
guess  quizzes...  But  how  about: 

Alabama-Hunlsvillc  Pro- 
fessor Gordon  Emslic...  who 
delivered  final  exams  lo  his  class 
by  parachuting  down  in  front  of 
Ihc  class  building.  /College  Prf,s,« 
Service/ 


ACC  Auditorium 

$1   (with  ID) 
$2  (without  ID* 


tonight 
7:30  p.m. 


8oSP0TLICHTl  IMnndiv.  Jin.  U.  1984 


Creative 
Kitchen 

Monday,  Jan.  2.1 

"Puffing  on  the  Hifz" 

Maderia  Consumme 

Chicken  ale  Kiev 

Rice  Pilax 

Julienne  of  Winter  Vegetables 

Spinach  Salad  -  Honey  Dressing 

Croissants 

Cheese  cake  tart 

Lemon  Mousse 

Wednesday.  Jan.  25 

Minestrone  Soup 

Homemade  Fetlucim 

With  Alfredo  Sauce 

Ralatauille  Stuffed  Tomato 

Poro  Bread  (filled  Italian  bread) 

Tossed  Green  Salad 

Spunmoni 

Thursday.  Jan.  26 

The  American  Experience 

Gramma  Sopchick's  Ruby 

» Vegetable  Soup 

Don's  Own  M&rinated 

Vegetables 

America's  Favorite 

Beef  Stroganoff 

Old-fashioned  Egg  Noodles 

Marinated  Cucumbers  and  Dill 

Aradama  Bread 
Pennsylvania  Dutch  Apple  Tart 
'  Coffee,  lea.  or  iced  tea  served  wifh 
all  meals.  Meals  cost  S3.  Soups  with 
homemade  rolls  and  desserts  are  a  la 
carte. 


Health  Services  Center 
now  in  Bardo  Gym 

I  The  Health  Services  Ccnler  is  on 
the  firsi  door  of  Ihe  Bardo  Gym  in 
Room  104. 

.1        Mrs.  Janet  R.  Querimil  now  is  Ihc 

j  nurse  in  charge.   Her  office  hours  are  8 

(a.m.  to  3;30  p.m. 

i        She  will  check  blood  pressure,  help 

'Students  with  weight  control,  and  pro- 
vide any  type  of  health  services  counsel- 
ing, Mrs.  Qucrimit  said. 

She  will  also  malie  doctor  or  dental 

.appointments  for  .students. 

Pamphlets  arc  available  on  hcallh 
care,  she  added. 

Big  game,  big  bucks 

At  last  count,  Ihe  fans  spent  more 
than  SS  million  during  Ihe  weekend  of 
the  traditional  Harvard-Yale  game  last 
fall. 

SHOCKS  FOR  SALE 

Monrot  air  shocks,  sel;  good  con- 
dilinn;  like  new;  complele  wilh  kit. 
$50.    Call  398-2519  anylime. 


ON  A  VISIT  lo  Ihe  College,  Middle  Slates  evalualinn  member,  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Cell  lunches  wilh  Dr.  Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of  educational  services 
(SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  by  Mary  L.  Pease)   /See  slory,  page  31 


ALCOHOL      I 
AWARENESS    I 

lii/miimiha  prmiM  by  T/mim  C.  SlifiJT. 

fif  Ihe  Oillcjic,  Cfmmelwg.  Ciirepr  Devclufinieiii. 

ami  Placewm  OJHtr 

If  you're  21  years  old  or  older  and 
you  choose  lo  drink,  drink  responsibly! 
Tips  on  Responsible  Drinking 

*  Recognize  another's  right  lo 
drink  or  nol  lo  drink. 

*  Use  alcohol  carefully  in  connec- 
tion wilh  other  drugs. 

'         *  Discourage  a  driver  who  is  under 
the  influence  from  driving. 

Stress  group's  first 
meeting  tomorrow 

A  stress  management  group  formed 
by  Ms.  Kathryn  A.  Ferrence,  career 
development  specialist  will  meet  from 
4:30  to  6  p.m.  every  Tuesday  starting 
lomorrow  in  Room  157  of  the  Learning 
Resources  Center,  according  to  Ms.  Fer- 
rence. 

The  group  is  open  to  15  persons. 
Handicapped  persons  will  have  first 
preference.  If  any  positions  are  remain- 
ing then  those  positions  will  be  filled  by 
olher  students,  said  Ms.  Ferrence. 

The  group  will  discuss  what  stress 
is,  its  causes,  and  ils  prevention.  The 
group  will  be  both  a  discussion  and  lear- 
ning group,  Ms.  Ferrence  said. 

Any  person  wanting  more  informa- 
tion or  wanting  lo  sign  up  may  contact 
Ms.  Ferrence  in  the  counseling  office. 
Room  157,  Learning  Resources  Center 
(LRC)  or  call  ExI.  389. 


Collegians  are  clean 

In  a  survey  of  hygiene  habits,  Sim- 
mons Market  Research  of  New  York 
found  97  percent  of  American  collegians 
use  shampoo  on  their  hair  instead  of 
soap,  thai  95  percent  use  a  deodorant, 
and  40  percent  brush  their  teeth  at  least 
three  times  a  day.  /College  Press  Ser- 
vice/ 


Bulletin  Board 

MEETINGS 

Student  Transition  Committee.. .A 
p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  218,  ACC. 

Computer  Science  C/u*...  lomor- 
row, room  and  time  lo  be  announced. 

Ski    Club...i    p.m.,     lomorrow, 
room  10  be  announced. 
MOVIE 

On    Golden    Pond...l:iO    p.m., 
lonighl,  ACC  Auditorium.    Admission 
$1  wilh  sludcnt  ID  and  $2  without  ID. 
ACTIVITIES 

Skiing  at  Oregon  /////...this 
Wednesday.  Bus  leaves  LRC  at  5:30 
p.m.  and  returns  at  10  p.m.  Musi  sign 
up  in  IM  office.  Room  108,  Bardo 
Gym. 

Roller  skating...  Ms  Wednesday 
from  8  p.m.  to  10:30  p.m.  at  Skating 
Plus,  downtown  Williamsport.  Free 
wilh  ID. 

Ice  skating...  Ibis  Thursday  al  Sun- 
bury  Community  Youth  Center.  Free 
transportation.  Bus  leaves  LRC  at  5:30 
p.m.  and  returns  9  p.m.  Skate  rental, 
50  cents.  Must  sign-up  in  IM  office. 
Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 
SPORTS 

Intramural  Bowling...  ABC  Bowl- 
ing Lanes,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow. 

LIFEGUARD  needed,  noon  to  4 
p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday.  Local 
pool.  Red  Cross  certification  required. 
Immediate  opening.  If  interested, 
leave  name,  address,  and  telephtme 
number  wilh  Mrs.  Elmer,  Room  IS7, 
Learning  Resources  Center. 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  St..  Williamsport 

/Nat  /0  Academic  Centerl 
PHONE  AHEjy);    322-1321 

OPEN  7:30  n.m.  W  6  p.m. 
Monday  Ihm  Friday 


^oine>. 
service 

G7  BEVERAGE   CO. 


[419-421  Fiflh  Ave.  •  WiUiamsporl,  Pa.  •  717/323-323T 


Construction  of  Advanced  Tech 
Center  to  begin  early  next  year 


See  story  below 


Monday,  Jan.  30,  1984    •    Vol.  19,  No.  20    •    8  Pages 
Williamsporl  Area  Communily  College    •    Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 


College  president, 
State  Sen.  Hager 
announce  plans 
for  new  center 

By  Thomas  H.  Long 
Administralive  Affairs  Editor 

Plans  were  officially  announced  lasl  Thursday, 
in  a  meeting  with  Lycoming  County  Commis- 
^  sioners,  to  begin  planning  and  development  of  the 
proposed  Advanced  Technology  and  Allied  Health 
Center  to  be  located  on  (he  main  campus  of  ihc 
College. 

The  conference,  held  at  the  Lycoming  County 
CourF House,  was  attended  by  State  Sen.  Henry  G. 
Hager;  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president, 
and  County  Commissioners  Dolly  Wilt,  Lora  Mor- 
ningstar,  and  Gene  Smith. 

Senator  Hager  noted  that  the  construction  of 

the  new  facility  "will  be  an  extremely  important 

development",  not  only  for  the  Williamsport  Area 

Community  College,  but  for  the  entire  Lycoming 

DDD  Please  turn  to  Page  8 


REVIEWING  PLANS  for  Ihe  College's 
future  and  particularly  for  a  proposed  Ad- 
vanced Technology  and  Allied  Health  Center 
are  Stale  Sen.  Henry  G.  Hager  (right)  and 


Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president,  at 
a  press  conference  held  in  the  Lycoming 
County  Commissioners  office  in  downtown 
Williamsporl  last  Thursday.    (SPOTLIGHT 

plwlo  by  Mary  L.  Pease) 


Radio  station  extends  air  time;  announces  management  team 


The  College's  student-operated 
radio  station  (WWAS)  will  expand  its 
hours  from  8  a.m.  to  1  a.m.,  according 
to  Bill  L.  Phoenix,  broadcasting  student 
from  Lock  Haveii  and  promotion  direc- 
tor. 

The  new  WWAS  management  team 
for  the  spring  semester  has  been  an- 
nounced and  includes: 


Michael  A.  Miller,  of  Brockway, 
assistant  general  manager  for  news, 
.sports,  public  service  announcements; 
James  M.  Balestino,  of  Altoona,  assis- 
tant general  manager  for  promotion, 
production,  and  music;  Wesley  H.  Lal- 
chford,  of  Altoona,  news  director;  John 
W.  VanZile,  of  Coudersporl,  program 
director;  Scott  S.  Zimmerman,  of 
Milton,  sports  director;  James  R. 
Bowes,  of  Williamsport,  public  service 


announcements;  Bill  L.  Phoenix,  oT 
Lock  Haven,  promotion  director;  Todd 
J.  Miller,  of  Muncy,  production; 
William  J.  Zimnochj  of  Lebanon^  musicl 
director,  and  Susan  Cowher,  of 
Millhcim,  traffic  director. 

Also  included  are  27  new  per- 
sonalities who  will  be  on  the  air  this 
semester: 

Ronald  J.  Wright,  of  Linden; 
Robert  K.  Schoppc,  of  Millerstown  and 


Sigma  Pi  Omega  to  conduct  raffle 
to  benefit  group's  education  fund 


WHAT  IS  IT?  Canyouidenlih  this' 
See  inside  SPOTLIGHT  for  the  rest  of 
the  story. 


A  night  of  entertainment  for  two  is 
the  first  prize  in  a  raffle  to  be  held  by 
Sigma  Pi  Omega,  according  to  Mrs.  Vi- 
vian P.  Moon,  associate  professor  of 
food  service  and  dietetics. 

The  night  will  include  dinner  for 
two  at  the  Hillside  -Restaurant,  two 
United  Artists  Theatre  tickets  and  $10 


worth  of  gas. 

Second  prize  is  dinner  for  two  ~ 
also  at  the  Hillside. 

The  tickets,  available  Feb.  1,  will 
sell  for  $1.  The  proceeds  will  go  to  Ihe 
Sigma  Pi  Omega  Educational  Fund. 

The  drawing  will  be  held  Feb.  10, 
said  Mrs.  Moon. 


Jeffrey  S.  Rachau,  of  Watsontown. 

Timothy'  A.  Rodgers,  of  Boyer- 
town;  Cynthia  M.  Perry,  of 
Williamsport  and  Bradley  J.  Oliver,  of 
Boyertown. 

Catherine  L.  Milunic,  of 
Mcewensville;  Kevin  M.  Mix,  of  South 
Williamsport,  and  Cathy  A.  Moyer,  of 
Lock  Haven. 

mUm  Please  turn  In  Page- 6 

Typing  lab  has  exiended 
hours  this  semester 

The  Indiviilualized  Learning  Center 
(ILC)  on  the  third  floor.  Academic 
Center  (ACC)  has  extended  hours  this 
semester. 

According  to  Mrs.  Jenny  M. 
Maurer,  laboratory  assistant  in  the  In- 
dividualized Learning  Center  for 
typewriting  and  word  processing,  the 
new  hours  are  Monday  through  Thurs- 
day, 8  a.m.  until  10  p.m.  and  Friday,  8 
a.m.  until  4  p.m. 


ZaSPOTFJCIfrDMoiKUy.  Jin.  30,  1W4 

Bell  of  Pennsylvania 
and  AT&T  split;  rates 
divided    with    com- 
panies    . 

|...ln  ttM  SPOTLIGHT'*  opinion 

Bell  of  Pennsylvania  separated 
(rom  AT&T  on  Jan.  1  by  a  court- 
lapproved  agreement. 

Local  service  will  still  be  provided 
iby  Bell  of  Pennsylvania  Included  are  a 
lal  lone  line  (rom  the  switching  office, 
10  the  home,  local  calls  and  regional 
loll  calls,  louch-lone  service,  custom 

! calling  services,  directory  assistance, 
repair  service  for  dial  tone  line,  and  wir- 
ing (maintenance,  rearrangement,  in- 
stallation). 

Regional  calls  will  also  be  handled 
|0y  Bell  of  Pennsylvania.  Long  distance 
companies  such  as  MCI,  Sprint,  ITT, 
Und  AT&T  will  handle  cdils  out  the  Bell 
lof  Pennsylvania's  regional  area. 

Three  sections  will  be  included  in 
Ithe  bill.  They  will  be  Bell  of  Penn- 
sylvania, AT&T  information  Systems, 
land  AT&T  Communications,  The 
■charges  will  be  for  services  from  Bell  of 
IPennsylvania  and  AT&T.  Customers 
[Will  continue  receiving  one  bill  and  pay 
only  one  monthly  payment. 

Speakers  are  available  to  speak  to 
clubs  or  groups  about  the  AT&T 
changeover 

For  more  inlormation,  call  toil-tree 
Ito  arrange  for  a  company  speaker 
The  number' is  1-800-555-5000 

Letters     . 

Letters  to  SPOTLIGHT  readers 
should  be  no  longer  than  300  words. 

They  may  be  delivered  to  the 
newspaper  odice  before  Tuesday 
noon  for  intended  publication  the 
following  Monday.  Letters  cannot  be 

,  published  without  the  writer's  name. 


SPOTLIQHT 
Monday,  Jin.  30,  1984    ■    Vol.  19,  No.  20 

The  SPOTLIGHT  Is  published  each  Monday 
motnino  ot  the  academic  year,  excepi  (or  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  journalism  and  other  In- 
terested students  ot  The  WIHIamsport  Area  Com- 
munity Colleae 

Otilce:    Room  7,  Academic  Center,  1005 
W      Third    St.,     Williamsporl,     Pa      17701 
Telephone;  (71 7|  326-3761.  Extension  221 . 


Opinions  expressed  are  those  ot  the  student 
newspaper  or  0l  those  whose  names  accmpany 
Items.  Opinions  do  not  redect  otdcial  opinion  ot 
the  Institution 


The  SP0TUGH7  is  a  member  ot  the  Colum- 
bia Scholastic  Press  Association  anrj  a  First 
Place  Winner  In  that  organltation's  most  recent 
evaluation. 

THE  STAFF 

Join  L.  Thompson,Mdnag/n9  Editor 

Perry  D  Peniz,  Editorial  Page  Editor 

Thomas  F   Montgomery,  Production  Supervisor 

Mary  L  Pease,  Photography  Editor 

I      Annette  M  Engel,  Composition  Manager 

Thomas  H   Long,  Adminislrative  Attairs  Editor 

Kay  M  Frace.  Sludenl  Allaits  Editor 

Qisela  0.  Qrassley.  Advertising  Manage' 

Lorl  M  Lane.  Sports  Editor 

Barbi  L  Chllson,  Photo  Technician 

Gregory  W  Hutt.  Senror  Slaft  Writer 

Murray  J  Hantord,  StafI  Artist 

REPORTERSISTAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Richard  E  Kopp,  Donna  M  Barnett,  Marcy 
L  Card,  Kathleen  R  Foreman.  Kathryn  M 
Gilbert.  Robert  O  Hawk,  Shawn  W  Heverly, 
Rodney  0.  Hill.  Lorl  L  Holland,  Robert  W 
Mtnier.  Kathy  A  Meixel,  Anne  T  Moratelli, 
James  K  Morrtssey,  Marks  Schwanke.  Sandra 
R  Taylor. 

Faculty  adviser   Anthony  N  Clllo 


More  information 
would  mal<e  IDs 
even  better 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Last  semester,  the  College  In- 
itiated a  plan  to  upgrade  the  student  in- 
dentlfication  process  by  issuing  dif- 
ferent ID  cards 

The  new  cards  replace  previous 
ones  made  of  paper  and  devoid  of 
photos  -  which  made  small  time  fraud 
about  as  common  as  screams  at  a 
Micfiael  Jackson  concert 

Indeed,  the  new  cards  -  thanks  to 
Ithe  addition  of  the  student's  picture 
l-are  an  obvious  improvement,  but 
perhaps  additional  inlormation  might 
further  Increase  the  efficiency  of  the 
system  even  more. 

Additional  information  such  as  the 
student's  height,  weight,  and  age 
would  be  appropriate  considerations 
for  addition  to  the  next  series  of  student 
ID  cards. 


Whaddya' 
say...  ? 


Popular  Photography  an  entertaining 
and  informative  magazine  for  all 

says  reviewer  Lori  L.  Holland 

Popular  Photography  is  an  entertaining  magazine  while  also  being  infor- 
mative   The  maga2ine  is  written  for  professional  and  amateur  photographers. 

Popular  Photography  consists  of  many  well-written,  helpful  articles.  These 
range  from  how  to  obtain  spectacular  views  of  a  not-so-spectacuiar  area  to 
stories  on  famous  photographers 

Many  pictures  are  included  in  each  issue  These  pictures  show  and  tell 
aboutmany  different  effects  of  photography. 

Not  only  does  Popular  Photography  include  35  mm  photography,  but  also 
,has  interesting  articles  on  motion  picture  taking  and  many  others. 

Every  issue  contains  sections  on  equipment  and  materials  These  sections 
iare  scattered  throughout  the  magazine  which  contain  advertisements  showing 
many  of  the  name-brand  pieces  of  photographic  equipment.  The  advertisements 
give  a  brief  explanation  of  films,  cameras,  lenses,  flashes,  camera  bags,  and 
filters. 

Each  issue  also  contains  many  "departments".  For  example:  Letters  to  the 
Editor  and  Shoptaik  Each  department  carries  new  information  and  a  different 
focus  in  every  issue. 

Like  many  other  magazines,  Popular  Photography  has  a  special  staff  who 
writes  articles  for  each  issue.  Norman  Goldberg,  Carl  Purceii,  and  Norman 
Schreiber  are  just  a  few  of  the  talented  staff  Writers 

Popular  Photography  is  a  well-organized,  informative  magazine  for  everyone 
at  alijnterested  in  photography: 

Brian  S.  McKinley, 
general  studies  student 
from  Milesburg:  "The  Fixx. 
They  are  a  young-and-up 
coming  band." 


John  A  Kozorosky, 
service  and  operation  of 
heavy  construction  equip- 
'menl  student  from 
Johnstown:  "David  Bowie 
seems  to  be  close  to  the. 
itop.  He  seems  fo-be  grow- 
ing more  poputer," 


Question:  Since  this 
was  the  year  for  Michael 
Jackson,  who  do  you  think 
will  top  the  popular  music 
charts  In  1984?   Why? 

Location:  Learning 
Resources  Center 


Wesley  H.  Latchlord, 
.<$>  broadcasting  student  from 
Ailoona:  "Michael  Jackson 
is  not  done,  he  is  still  hot 
Hall  and  Oats  along  with  the 
Police  will  also  stay  on 
top" 


Karla  J.  Kisner.  ac- 
counting student  from 
South  Williamsport:  "Per- 
sonally. I  can't  stand  Boy 
George  but  he  is  just  weird 
■enough  to  make  it  to  the 
top." 


Production  staff  This  lisua 

I        Robert  O   Hawk,  Rodney  D   Hill,  Kathy  A 
Meixel,  and  James  K   Morrissey 


MAY 

GRADUATES 

Last  Day 

to  Petition 

to  Graduate 

is 

Friday,  Feb.  17! 

Petition  is  necessary  so 
credentials  may  be 
evaluated.  Pick  up 
from  at  Student 
Records  Window,  first 
floor,  Academic 
Center. 


Lyiin  Turney,  machine 
tool  technology  sludenl 
from  Montgomery:  "Police 
will  give  anyone  a  run  for 
the  money." 


Christine.'   Not  just 
another  horror  film 

says  reviewer  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 

After  seeing  the  previews  for  the 
movie  Christine,  I  thought  it  was  going 
to  be  jusi  another  horror  movie  with  the 
same  old  plot  which  I  have  seen  many 
limes  The  only  difference:  Instead  of 
the  killer  being  a  deranged  person  or 
an  evil  spirit,  it  is  a  1958  red  Plymouth 
Fury 

After  seeing  the  movie.  I  realized 
the  old  saying,  "Never  judge  a  book  by 
its  cover",  was  true 

Christine  has  a  lot  going  for  it  The 
movie  is  more  than  just  death,  blood, 
and  gore.    II  has  a  sensible  plot. 

The  movie  shows  how  the  "mad" 
car  tears  apart  a  lifelong  friendship, 
idevaste's  a  family,  and  endsa  love 
atfair. 

For  anyone  who  wants  to  see  a 
good  movie,  this  is  it.  On  a  scale  of 
"yea"  to  "boo".  I  rate  it  all  right. 


Feb.  1  is 
National  Child 

Dental 
Health  Month 

Have  your 
child  checked 


SPOTLIGHTaMonili^,  Jm.  M,  1W4d3 

Grants  and  work  Study  applications  available 


Applications  for  grants  and  work 
study  for  Ihc  1984-85  year  now  are 
available  in  the  Financial  Aid  Office, 
Room  201,  Academic  Center  (ACC), 
according  to  Donald  S.  Shade,  director 
of  financial  aid. 

Students  interested  in  applying  for 
financial  aid  for  the  1984-85  year  should 
go  to  the  Financial  Aid  Office  (o  pick  up 
forms. 

Students  receiving  aid  during 
1983-84  must  renew  their  applications 


for  1984-85,  he  said. 

Students  should  file  the 
Williamsporl  Area  Conimunity  College 
Financial  Aid  applications  and 
statements  of  educational  purpose  as 
well  as  the  applications  for  Penn- 
sylvania state  grant  and  federal  student 
aid. 

Shade  said  students  who  are  in- 
terested in  work  study  should  file  early 
since  the  funds  are  limited  in  that  pro- 
gram. 


Applications  can  be  filled  out  as 
soon  as  ihe  students  and  their  parents,  if 
applicable,  have  filled  out  their  1983 
federal  income  tax  returns,  he  added. 

The  deadline  for  the  Slate  Grant 
program  is  May  I  for  the  renewal  ap- 
plications and  Aug.  1  for  new  applica- 
tions.  The  deadline  for  Pell  is  May  I. 

The  College's  work  study  program 
deadline  is  May  1  also,  but  students 
should  file  as  early  as  possible  because 
funds  are  "extremely  limited",  he  em- 


Tot  Watch  has  openings 

There  are  still  openings  in  Tot 
Watch  for  more  children  between  the 
ages  of  Iwo-and-a-half  and  five  years 
according  to  Mrs.  Mary  L.  Bardo, 
manager  of  tot  watch. 

On  Monday,  Wednesday  and  Fri- 
day, there  is  room  in  the  afternoons;  on 
Tuesday  and  Thursday,  there  is  room 
anytime  of  the  day. 

Tot  Watch  is  open  from  8  a.m.  un- 
til 4:30  p.m.  It  then  re-opens  at  5;45 
p.m.  and  remains  open  until  10,  Mrs. 
Bardo  said. 

It  is  located  in  Rpoi^  203,  second 
floor,  Academic  Center  (ACC). 

Book  sale  is  over 

The  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PEL)  used 
book  sale  ijow  is  over. 

According  to  David  A.  Haas,  club 
president  and  ciimpulcr  science  student 
from  Williamsporl,  anyone  who 
briiughi  in  buoks  should  come  and  pick 
ihcm  up  at  the  PBL  office.  Room  333, 
Academic  Center  (ACC). 

Haas  noted,  "The  book  sale 
was  a  service  project  the  club  did  for 
College  students,  not  a  profit-maker. 


According  to /I  Brief  Dkiioimry  of 
Aiiiericuii  Siipersiiiions ,  bedbugs, 
taken  inlcrnally  in  powder  form,  will 
cure  fever  and  relieve  hvslcria. 


College  donations 
are  near  $20,000 

Several- donations  have  been  made 
to  the  College  for  the  Spring  semester 
for  use  in  certain  departments,  accor- 
ding to  Frederick  T.  Gilmour,  executive 
director  of  Ihe  College  Foundation. 

Bob  Logue  Motor  Sports  donated 
1,450  small  engine  parts,  valued  at 
$7,679  for  instructional  use  by  Ihe 
secondary  division. 

According  to  Gilmour,  American 
Olian  of  Pittsburgh  donated  12,000 
pounds  of  ceramic  tile  for  the  graphic 
arts  department.  In  addition,  the 
department  also  received  $10,216  worth 
of  supplies  from  Ihe  Stickley  Corpora- 
lion. 

Shop-Vac  has  donated  a  heavy- 
duty  wet  and  dry  shop-vac  to  the  Center 
for  Lifelong  Education. 

Cash  donations  include  $100  from 
William  and  Phyllis  Stevens.  Stevens, 
assistant  professor  of  service  and  opera- 
lion  of  heavy  construction  equipment 
here  at  Ihe  College,  and  his  wife 
donated  the  money  for  use  in  purchas- 
ing instructional  equipment. 

IBM  also  donated  $250  with  no 
restriction  on  how  it  was  to  be  spent, 
added  Gilmour. 

Alpha  Omega  schedules 
meetings  for  Tuesday 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  has 
started  meeting  on  a  regular  schedule. 
Its  meetings  will  be  held  al  7  p.m.  every 
Tuesday  in  Room  6,  Academic  Center 
(ACC). 

This  week's  guest  speaker  will  be 
Pastor  Wayne  Holcomb,  of  the  Door 
Fellowship  of  Williamsporl,  according 
to  Jay  Shultz,  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship 
secretary. 


phasized. 

Students  who  will  be  enrolled  dur- 
ing the  summer  for  more  than  six  credits 
should  also  fill  oul  all  the  above  ap- 
plications. If  enrolling  for  12  credits  or 
more,  students  may  apply  for  slate 
gran^  for  Ihe  summer  lerm. 

Summer  slate  gram  applications  . 
will  be  available  in  the  Financial  Aid 
Office   sometime    during    March,    he 
staled.         I 


Integrated  Studies  Division 
adds  program  in  human  services 


MEMBERSHIP  open  for  SPRING  TERM 

PHI  BETA  LAMBDA 

JOIN   NOW! 

Join  the  World's  Largest 

Business-Computer,  Science  Organization 
Learn  to  be  a  LEADER 

Applications  available  in  PBL  office 
Room  333  Academic  Center 


By  Robert  0.  Hawk 
Staff  Writer 

There  are  definite  changes  in  Ihe 
wind  in  Ihe  Division  of  Inlegraled 
Studies,  according  to  Dr.  James  E.  Mid- 
dlelon,  director  of  the  division. 

Added  to  the  division's  offerings 
will  be  a  new  program  in  human  ser- 
vices. This  course  of  studies  will  pro- 
vide a  broad  base  for  entry  into  the 
helping  professions  (drug  and  alcohol 
counseling,  child-care  counseling  and 
work  in  care  of  the  elderly,  to  name  a 
few). 

This  addition  is  expected  to  receive 
President's  Commission  approval  this 
week  and  it  will  then  be  brought  before 
the  College  Board  of  Trustees  on  Feb. 
1. 


There  are  planned  revisions  for  Ihe 
curriculums  in  broadcasting  and  jour- 
nalism as  well  as  some  general  changes 
in  the  academic  reorganization  of  Ihe 
Integrated  Studies  Division  office  itself. 
A  bulletin  explaining  the  rationale  for 
these  changes  will  be  forthcoming  from 
the  division  office  this  week. 

Dr.  Middleton,  who  will  deliver  a 
paper  to  the  National  Research  Con- 
ference on  Lifelong  Education  al  the 
University  of  Maryland  on  Feb.  17,  said 
these  changes  will  vastly  increase  Ihe  op- 
portunities for  individuals  interested  in 
prim  and  broadcast  communication  as 
well  as  the  human  services  field. 


Daimler,   a   German,   is   credited 
with  inventing  the  motorcycle  in  1885. 


You  can  learn  tomorrow's 
technologies  in  today's  Navy. 


Tomorrow's  technologies,  tomorrow's  careers 
are  waiting  for  you  right  now  in  the  Navy. 
Sophisticated  technical  fields  like  computers, 
electronics,  communications  and  engineering. 
If  you've  got  solid  training  in  these  areas, 
you  can  have  a  solid  future. 
And  there's  no  better  place 
to  get  solid  training  in 
these  technologies  than 
in  today's  Navy.  If  you 
qualify,  you  can  sign  up 
for  guaranteed  training  in 
the  field  of  your  choic«,  and  ' 
start  after  you  graduate. 
The  skills  you'll  learn  will 
last  a  lifetime.  The  places  - 
you  can  visit,  you'll  j 
remember  for  the 
rest  of  your  life. 
To  find  out  more, 
call  your  local 
Navy  repre- 
sentative: 

1-800-692-7823 


4oSPOTUGHTaMonlir,  Jip.  M,  IW4 


ABOVE 

COACH  Louis  J.  Menago  chals  with 
(he  Wildcal  players  during  a  lime  oul. 

(SPOTLIGHT  plwin    by    Mary    L. 
Pease) 


FAR  LEFT 

JAMMING  Ihe  ball  is  Timothy  A. 
Kodgen,  a  broadcisling  sludenl  from 
Boyerlown.  Rodgers  is  warming  up  for 
home  game  againsi  Luzerne  County 
Community  College.  (SPOTLIGHT 
pliiilo  by  Mary  L.  Pease) 


LEFT 

LOOKING  for  an  offensive  player  to 
loss  the  ball  to  is  Timothy  A.  Rodgers, 
a  broadcasting  student  from  Boyer- 
lown.  (SPOTLIGHT  pliolo  by  Mary 
L.  Pease) 


SADHA  sponsors 
chili  hot  dog  sale 

There  will  be  a  hot  dog  sale  lonior- 
row  sponsored  by  the  Student  American 
Dental  Hygiene  Association  (SADHA) 
in  the  foyer  of  the  Academic  Center 
(ACC),  according  to  Mrs.  Davie  Jane 
Nestaricl(,  interim  coordinator  of  the 
dental  hygiene  program. 

It  will  be  held  from  10:30  a.m.  to 
noon.  The  cost  is  60  cents  for  a  plain 
hot  dog,  $1  for  two  hot  dogs  and  75 
cents  for  a  hot  dog  with  chili. 


Scholarship  Opportunity 

Infurmadon  provided  by  Financial  Aid  Office 
trir-tt  Tlie  Financial  Aid  Office  lias  applications  for  the  Best  Productions  Foundation 
scholarship  program.    The  program  is  designed  Jor  students  enrolled  in  vocaiional- 
technical  programs  not  leading  to  a  Bachelor 's  Degree.  In  Ihe  past,  these  scholarships 
have  helped  students  pursue  careers  as  nurses,  x-ray  technicians,  cooks,  barbers,  but- 
chers, secretaries,  data  processing  programmers,  and  word  processing  technicians. 
i>  A  ir Eligible  applicants  must  have  completed  high  school  and  must  be  enrolled  in  a 
vocational-technical  program.  Awards  range  fiom  SSOO  to  $1,000  and  may  be  renewed 
for  Ihe  second  academic  year.    Winners  are  selected  on  Ihe  basis  of  participation  in 
school/community  activities,  prior  work  experience,  past  educational  jterforiiiaiice, 
financial  need,  and  job  market  opportunities  in  your  field  of  study, 
■tr  it  i!  Applications  must  be  postmarked  by  April  I,  IHi.  For  an  application  brochure, 
please  contact  Ihe  Financial  Aid  Office,  Room  201  in  the  Academic  Center. 


PBL  students  trim  alumni 
in  challenge  basketball 

Phi  Beta  Umbda  (PBL)  club 
members  defeated  the  PBL  alumni, 
69-28,  in  a  challenge  basketball  game 
held  at  the  Bardo  Gym,  Jan.  19. 

According  lo  David  A.  Haas,  PBL 
president  and  computer  science  student 
from  Williamsporl,  the  club  has  two 
upcoming  challenge  basketball  matches 
againsi  Ihe  faculty  and  Ihc  Computer 
Science  Club  scheduled  for  February. 

Soccer  begins  Thursday 

Intramural  soccer  will  begin  this 
Thursday  from  6;30  to  8:.TO  p.m.  in  the 
Bardo  Gym,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Frcmiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

Inlcreslcd  students  who  have  not 
signed  up  previously  may  still  do  so  in 
Room  108,  Bardo  Gym,  added  Mrs. 
Fremiolti, 

IM  wrestling  tournament 
scheduled  to  start  today 

The  IM  wrestling  tournament  will 
take  place  this  week,  with  the  first 
elimination  match  scheduled  for  4:15  to 
6:15  p.m.  today,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

Eliminations  continue  tomorrow 
from  7  to  9  p.m.,  with  finals  at  7  to  10 
p.m.  Wednesday. 

All  wrestling  action  will  take  place 
in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

"Students  may  visit  the  gym  to 
support  their  favorite  participant,"  add- 
ed Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


Creative 
Kitchen 

Picnic  in  January 
Monday,  Jan.  30 

Fun  Tomato  Fennel  Soup 

Picnic  Ctiicken 

r\/lanhattan  Deli  Salad 

Stuffed  Zucchini  Boats 

Swingin'  Oatmeal  tvluffin  Bread 

Perfect  end  to  picnic:   eittier 

Casatia     (Italian     cake)     or 

Raspberry  Cassis  Granila 

Thinl(  Spring 

Wednesday,  Feb.  1 

Creamy  Broccoli  Soup 

Cornisfi  Game  Hen 

witti  Fruit  Glaze 

on  Stuffing  Nesf 

Filled  Baked  Potato 

Green  Beans  Almondine 

Fresh  Fruit  Salad 

Assorted  Rolls 

German  Chocolate  Cake 

La  Cuisine  Creole 

Tliursday,  Feb.  2 

(Mushroom  Bisgue 

Chicken  Clemenceau 

(chicken  saute  with  vegetables) 

Sole  Creole  on  Rice 

Glazed  Baby  Carrots 

Blackstone  Salad 

New/  Orleans  Style  French  Bread 

A  Nun's  Sigh 

Coconut  Custard  Pie 

Coffee,   tea,   iced  lea,   milk 

and  water  served  with  all  meals. 

fvleals    cost    $3,       Soups    with 

homemade  rolls  and  desserts  are 

a  la  carte 


Dew  Crew,  High  Rollers 
top  intramural  bowling 


SPOTLIGHTOMoiidiy,  Ju.  M,  I9Md5 


High  team  scorers  for  ihe  in- 
tramural teams  were  the  Dew  Crew  and 
High  Rollers. 

Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  Dew  Crew  5         1 

2.  High  Rollers  5         1 

3.  CU-JO  4         2 

4.  The  Mad  Halters  3         3 

5.  Flintstones  3         3 

6.  Destroyers  3         3 

7.  Unpredictables  2         4 

8.  Head  Pins  2         4 

9.  The  Cillo-Etts  2         4 

10.  Bonehcads:  undeterminded 

Men's  high  single 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton, 
bowled  a  245. 

Scott  R.  Mondschein,  engineering 
drafting  technology  student  from 
Coplay,  bowled  a  237. 

Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business 
management  student  from 
Williamsport,  bowled  a  236. 


Women's  high  single 

Denisc  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  167. 

Denisc  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
student  from  Cogan  Station,  158. 

Cindy   M.   Cekovich,   floriculture 
student  from  Mechanicsburg,  149. 
High  learn  single 

Destroyers,  960. 

Boneheads,  875. 

Head  Pins,  862. 

Men's  high  series 

Reamsnyder  bowled  a  648. 

Seber,  629. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air/condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  618. 

Women's  high  series 

McNeil,  465. 
King,  459. 
Cekovich,  394. 

High  learn  series 
Destroyers  bowled  a  2653. 
High  Rollers,  2514. 
Flintstones,  2436. 


BOWLING  his  way  to  Ihe  Number  One  position  of  Ihe  Inp  five  bowlers  is 
Franklin  J.  Seber,  eleclrical  lecbnulogy  sludcnl  from  Scranlon.  (SPOTLIGHT 
pholo  by  Lori  M.  Lane) 

Volleyball  rosters  due  today;  meeting  set  for  tonight 


Students  interested  in  intramural 
volleyball  need  to  complete  a  roster 
before  noon  today  and  those  par- 
ticipating in  the  volleyball  tournament 
must  attend  the  5:30  to  7:30  meeting 
tonight  in  the  Bardo  Gym's  east  end, 
according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

Movie  draws  27  devotees 

"Every  Which  Way  But  Loose" 
was  sponsored  in  a  fund-raising  event 
by  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  on  Jan.  19. 

"A  turnout  of  27  people  -  who 
really  enjoyed  thctuselvcs  -  were  in  at- 
tendance," according  to  Edward  C. 
Stoddard,  club  prcsidcni. 


Participants  may  enter  one  of  three 
leagues  with  a  six-player  minimum  per 
team.  The  three  categories  are  men's, 
women's,  or  coed  (three  men  and  three 
women),  added  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  sign-up  roster  is  available  in 
Mrs.  Fremiotti's  office.  Room  108,  Bar- 
do  Gym. 


But  how's  the  fishing? 
The  Huang  He  River  in  China  has 
twice  been  responsible  for  massive 
deaths  as  a  result  of  flooding,  lit  1887, 
there  were  900,000  deaths  recorded  as  a 
result  of  the  river's  fury,  and  in  1931, 
there  were  3,700,000  li\cs  claimed  by 
ihc  raging  body  of  waicr. 


ACROSS 

1  Time  gone  by 

4  Pronoun 

6  Pretends 
1 1  Allow 
t3  Vegetable 

15  Preposition 

16  Instruct 

18  Latin 
conjunction 

19  Sun  god 
21  Paradise 

32  Clan 

24  Chills  and 

lever 
26  Wile  ol 

Geraint 

28  Imitate 

29  Repairs 
31  River  duett 

33  Teutonic 
deity 

34  Pound  down 
36  Falsifier 

38  Frencti  article 
40  Flesh 
42  Look  fixedly 
45  Doctrine 
47  Short  jacKel 

49  Hastened 

50  Husband  of 
Gudrun 

52  Allowance  for 
waste 

54  Prefix: 
down 

55  Negative 

56  Seesaws 
59  Symbol  for 

iron 
61  Come  on 

the  &cene 
63  Tradesman 

65  Floats  in  air 

66  Old  pronoun 

67  Native  metal 

DOWN 


2  Mr.  Arliss 

3  Con)unction 

4  Conceal 

5  Musical  study 

6  Breed  of  dog 

7  Torrid 

8  The  sweet- 
sop 

9  Parent: 
colloq. 

10  Russian  plain 
12  Pinetree 

state:  abbr. 
14  Aquatic 

mammal 
17  Coin 
20  Female 

relative 

23  Babylonian 
deity 

24  Kind  of 
cheese 

27  Platform 
30  Pintail  duett 
32  Narrow  strip 

of  wood 
35  Talks  glibly 
37  Foray 


Answer  10  ta%l  week's  puzzle 

s  p  A  nHw  0 

OHa   B   E    T 

HA    LeBhA 

olio  A    u  A 

OR6|S7    T 

ER|0    EM^ 

l^l'    '    l\ 

1    e!|m    E^ 

1 , Ben E| 

SE    T    E    Ei 

SC.REl? 

A    l|    SnT 

A    L    ,     T|f   A 

0|    A    T    T    S 

P    ESlSul 

■slosh 

■       OBDD    BODG       ■ 

■bb    BQ    OBEIO    C3dH' 

A   R   aHo   P   I 

n  .Jo  A   S 

U   N   OraP    E    S 

T    ,    ShtE 

L    E    DJAi    P    A 

sITfp    E   0 

36  Climbing 

plant 
39  Bars  legally 
4iaviHniury 

43  Close-flUIng 
heavy  jacket 

44  Man's 
nickname 

46  Milliliter: 
abbr. 


48  In  want 
51  Willow 
53  Woody  plant 

57  Organ  of 
hearing 

58  A  continent: 
abbr. 

60  Before 

62  River  In  Italy 

64  Beholdl, 


'W 

S-- 

■ 

-% 

^~' 

s- 

§- 

To" 

i 

" 

n 

■ 

13 

w 

17 

i" 

'"■ 

i'' 

23 

IT 

2S 

i 

it 

w 

i 

ii 

w 

ff| 

31 

ifl 

a 

IP" 

35 

WL 

37 

!■ 

39 

i 

^m 

a 

wTT 

« 

w 

ILL 

45 

w 

-m 

50 

w^ 

Si 

!? 

■1 

w* 

57 

Tl" 

u 

Jl 

w 

■r 

«4 

■ 

u 

1 

•i 

_ 

I 

i1 

Donate  blood.  It's  a  gift  for  life. 


IWAMfYOU 


sy>aa£ys 


BELL  MURRAS'tN 
STRIPES 

•  HAROLD  RAMIS  •  WARREN  OATES  • 
•  P  J.  SOLES  •  JOHN  CANDY  • 

Mmic  BT  ELMES  BESNSTEIN  satzmnjs  <r(  LEN  BLt}M  * 
DANGOLDBEKG  and  HAROLD  RAMIS 

r  IVAN  EEITMAN  amd  DAN  GOLDBEBG  f\ 
itIVANREITMAN  III 


|RIIIBTMCTI»»| 


Tonight  7:30  p.m. 


ACC  Auditorium  ^ 

SI  (witli  ID) 
$2  (without  ID) 


6DSPOTUGHTOMondiy.  Jm.  30,  I9M 


Studies  reveal 


Heart  disease  begins  in  childhood 


Whal  is  il? 
l\'i  fellucini! 

Miss  Kalhy  L.  Orso  (right) 
planned  and  was  in  charge 
of  last  Wednesday's 
Creative  Kitchen  meal:  Jet- 
lucini  alfredo.  The  noodles 
had  to  be  made  aead  and, 
of  course,  allowed  to 
"dry".  How  to  dry  them 
with  limited  counter  space? 
Miss  Orso  used  her  "noo- 
dle"... and  clotheslined 
them.  /SPOTLIGHT plmlas 
by  Mary  L.  Peaxe/ 


Radio  station 
extends  time 


Tom  L.  Murphy,  of  Washinglon 
Crossing;  John  D.  Nelson,  of  Stale  Col- 
lege, and  Scan  C.  McOough,  of 
Williamsporl, 

Geoffrey  M.  Hoover,  of 
Williamsporl;  Eric  W.  Huffman,  of 
Williamsporl,  and  David  L.  James,  of 
William.sporl. 

Paul  A.  Langc,  of  Williamsporl; 
Wesley  H.  Lalchford,  of  Alloona,  and 
David  Bales,  of  Williamsporl. 

Susan  Cowhcr,  of  Millheim;  Maria 
D.  Cunningham,  of  Locic  Haven,  and 
Bradd  E.  Fousl,  of  Howard. 

Christopher  M.  Fry,  of  Mon- 
loursvillc;  Melissa  A.  Gore,  of  Soulh 
Williamsporl;  JclTrey  6.  Harvey,  of 
Williamsporl;  Douglas  M.  Bower,  of 
Williamsporl,  and  Cynlhia  E.  Har- 
Iranfl,  of  Williamsporl. 


Have  a  promotion 
for  display  windows? 

Anybody  inleresled  in  using 
Ihe  Academic  Center  display  win- 
dows for  a  iheme  or  promotion 
should  contact  Robert  L.  Lyons, 
assistant  professor  of  retail 
management,  al  Exl.  227  or  in 
Room  507. 

"The  fashion,  merchandis- 
ing, and  display  students  will  be 
delighted  lo  design  a  display," 
Lyons  said. 


Infnnmiinrt  provided  by  Janet  R.  Querintii. 
Even  though  heart  disease  rarely 
strilces  before  midlife,  scientific  evidence 
now  shows  thai  heart  disease  begins  in 
early  childhood,  when  lifelong  health 
habits  are  formed,  according  to 
Heallhlines,  a  newsletter  published  by 
the  American  Red  Cross. 

The  newsletter  reports  that  autop- 
sies of  many  preschool  children  who  die 
from  unrelated  causes  show  the  beginn- 
ings of  atherosclerosis.  Autopsies  of 
m  American  casualties  in  Vietnam  found 
*  thai  45  percenl  had  atherosclerosis  al  an 
averapp  aee  of  22. 


College  nurse,  Heallli  Semce  Cenier. 

Research  bas  also  shown  ihal  blood 
pressure  and  obesity  pallerns  are  also 
formed  in  childhood. 

For  the  first  lime  in  July  1983,  the 
American  Heart  Association'  recom- 
mended dietary  guidelines  and  other 
preventive  measures  for  all  children  past 
Ihe  age  of  two. 

Heallhlines  also  reports  thai  many 
experts  recommend  blood  pressure  and 
cholesterol  checkups  for  all  children, 
regardless  of  age  or  family  medical 
history. 


Associate  professor  attends 
two-day  income  tax  seminar 


Phillip  D.  Landers,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  business  administration,  at- 
tended a  two-day  session  of  seminars 
covering  corporate  and  individual  in- 
come tax. 

The  Jan.  3  and  4  event  was  spon- 
sored by  the  Northcentral  Chapter  of 
the  Pennsylvania  Institute  of  Certified 
Public  Accountants,  he  said.  It  was 
held  al  the  Hillside  Restaurant. 

A  video  presentation  was  shown. 
Landers  said.  It  covered  new  provisions 
in  lax  laws  applying  to  individuals  and 


Grant  Martin  assumes  position 
in  Center  for  Lifelong  Education 


corporation  as  well  as  reviews  of  recent 
court  cases  and  rulings  by  Ihe  Internal 
Revenue.  Service. 

The  educational  materials  for  the 
presentation,  including  Ihe  videotapes, 
were  prepared  by  the  continuing  educa- 
tion division  of  the  American  Institute 
of  Certified  Public  Accountants. 

Landers  explained,  "The  purpose 
for  me  was  lo  help  me  prepare  for 
leaching  income  lax  accounting."  The 
three-credit  night  course,  taught  by 
Landers,  is  pari  of  the  accounting  cur- 
riculum. 


By  Donna  M.  Barnett 
Staff  Writer 

Gram  Martin,  -a  South 
Williamsporl  native,  began  work  Jan.  2 
in  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Education  as 
coordinator  for  specialized  technical 
educational  programs. 

Martin's  duties  include  setting  up 
contract  courses,  creating  contracts,  fin- 
ding instructors,  and  reviewing  cur- 
riculums  and  costs. 

"I  tailor  a  program  lo  what  a 
business  wants.  Take,  for  example,  a 
company  that  just  bought  a  bunch  of 
personal  computers.  They  need  so- 
meone 10  leach  their  staff  how  to  use 
them,  so  ihey  call  me.  I  find  an  inslruc- 
lor  and  set  up  a  program  that  will  train 
their  staff.     It's  very  cost  effective  to 


business."  Martin  said. 

Stale  inspection  programs  are 
another  aspect  of  Martin's  job  which 
gels  popular  response. 

"Say  you  own  a  gas  station  and 
you  want  to  be  certified  lo  inspect 
automobiles.  You  would  contact  me 
and  I  would  place  you  in  a  program  that 
certifies  people  lo  inspect  automobiles," 
Martin  explained. 

Martin,  a  1977  graduate  of 
Bloomsburg  University,  has  a  bachelor 
of  science  degree  in  secondary  education 
and  comprehensive  social 
studies/sociology.  He  previously  taught 
social  studies  in  Ihe  Philadelphia  area 
and  later  at  Jersey  Shore  Area  High 
School. 


Mrs.  Moon  attends  Chicago  meeting 


Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associate 
professor  of  food  service  and  dietetics, 
attended  a  conference  in  Chicago  recent- 
ly. Mrs.  Moon  was  a  member  of  The 
National  Task  Force  Establishing  Stan- 
dards for  Dietetic  Assistance  Progi^ms. 
The  task  force's  aim  was  .to  set 
guidelines  for  dietetic  programs  in  every 
college  and  university  thai  now  has  one 
and  for  those  requesting  lo  start  a  new 
program. 

The  standards  go  into  effect  Dec. 
31,  1984.  Mrs.  Moon  said  some  of  the 
existing  programs  "do  some  very  shady 
things".  But,  she  was  quick  to  add  that 


there  are  also  programs  doing  a  good 
job. 

Graduates  who  want  lo  be  accepted 
into  a  professional  organization,  either 
the  American  Dietetic  Association 
(ADA)  or  the  Hospital,  Institution  and 
Education  Food  Service  Society,  must 
meet  these  standards. 

The  members  had  a  number  of 
varied  backgrounds.  Some  were 
authors,  educators  and  dielelicians. 
They  met  with  four  members  from  ADA 
who  gave  them  input  on  how  lo 
establish  and  maintain  high  standards  in 
dietetic  programs. 


NEW  EMPLOYEE  in  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education:    Grant  Martin. 


The  second-longest  river  in  North 
America  is  the  Mackenzie. 


CSC  meeting  a  must, 
says  club  officer 

The  Computer  Science  Club 
will  hold  a  meeting  tomorrow  at 
3:30  p.m.  in  Room  323,  Academic 
Center  (ACC). 

According  to  B.  Drew 
Robi.son,  public  relations,  there 
will  be  a  discussion  of  designs  for 
hooded  sweatshirts  for  club 
members.  It  is  mandatory  for  all 
members  to  attend,  he  said. 


SPOTUGHTgMoBdty,  Jib.  M,  lM4a7 


Snow  and  emergency  closing  procedure/policy  detailed 


/The  College's  policy  on  snow  aid  emergency  closing  is  published  as  a  service  lo 
readers.  II  is  suggested  llial  this  Hem  be  clipped  and  saved./ 


Decision  to  Close 


(1)  Closing  of  Secondary  Voilionil-Technictil  Classes 

Closing  of  the  secondary  program  means  that  secondary  students, 
faculty,  and  staff  are  either  released  or  not  required  lo  come  to  the  College.  This 
decision  will  be  made  by  the  president  in  consultation  with  the  dean  of  academic  af- 
fairs. The  dean  of  academic  affairs  will  consult  with  the  appropriate  associate  dean 
before  making  a  recommendation  to  the  president. 

(2)  Closing  of  Poslsecondary  On-Campus  Classes 

Closing  of  on-campus  day  classes  means  that  affected  postsecondary 
students,  faculty,  and  staff  are  either  released  or  not  required  to  come  to  the  Col- 
lege. Decision  is  made  by  the  president  in  consultation  with  the  dean  of  academic 
affairs.  The  dean  of  academic  affairs  will  consult  with  the  associate  deans  making  a 
recommendation  to  the  president.  In  inclement  weather  the  decision  to  close  is  nor- 
mally made  by  6  a.m.  The  dean  of  academic  affairs  will  notify  the  director  of  com- 
munications of  the  president's  decision. 

A  decision  to  cancel  evening  classes  will  be  made  by  the  president  in 
consultation  with  the  dean  of  academic  affairs.  The  dean  of  academic  affairs  will 
consult  with  the  associate  deans  and  the  director  of  Lifelong  Education  before  mak- 
ing a  recommendation  to  the  president.  The  dean  of  academic  affairs  will  notify  the 
director  of  communications  of  the  president's  decision.  .The  decision  to  cancel 
evening  classes  will  be  made  by  3  p.m.  or  earlier  if  possible. 

(3)  Closing  of  Lifelong  Education  Classes 

,  The  closing  of  any  lifelong  education  classes  means  that  affected 

sfudents,  faculty,  and  staff  are  either  released  or  not  required  to  come  to  class  or 
report  to  work.  - 

Evening  Classes  -  Decision  is  made  by  the  President  in  consultation 
with  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs.  The  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  will  consult 
with  the  Director  of  Lifelong  Education  before  making  a  recommendation  to  the 
President,  The  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  will  be  responsible  for  coordinating  the 
closing  of  credit  and  non-credit  classes  and  for  informing  the  Director  of  Com- 
munication of  the  President's  decision.  In  inclement  weather  the  decision  to  cancel 
evening  classes  must  be  made  by  3  p.m. ' 

A  decision  to  dismiss  classes  early  at  the  end  of  the  evening  is  made  by 
the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  in  consultation  with  the  Director  of  Lifelong  Educa- 
tion. 

Off-Campus  Classes  ~  Decision  is  made  by  the  Dean  of  Academic  Af- 
fairs in  consultation  with  the  Director  of  Lifelong  Education. 

(4)  Closing  of  the  Main  Campus 

Closing  of  the  institution  means  that  the  entire  College  is  officially  clos- 
ed to  students  and  the  public  and  that  all  faculty,  administrators,  and  other  support 
employees,  other  than  those  required  lo  remove  snow  or  complete  necessary  func- 
tions, will  either  be  released  or  not  required  to  come  to  work.  Decision  will  be 
made  by  the  President  in  consultation  with  the  Dean  of  General  Services  and  the 
Dean  of  Academic  Affairs.  The  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  will  notify  the  Director 
of  Communication  of  the  President's  decision. 


Highspeed 
High  Fidelity. 


ylLPINE 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

25  W.  Church  St.      Williamsporl 

(In  Ttie  Badman  &  Schurer  Building) 
te(Behincl  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)BBi 


(5)  Closing  of  (he  North  Campus 

The  closing  of  the  North  Campus  means  that  affected  students  facul- 
ty, and  staff  are  either  released  or  not  required  to  come  to  class  or  report  to  work 
The-decision  to  close  the  North  Campus  will  be  made  by  the  President  in  consulta- 
tion with  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs.  Prior  to  making  a  recommendation  to  the 
President,  the  Dean  of  Adacemic  Affairs  will  contact  the  Director  of  the  North 
Campus  and  determine  the  severity  of  the  existing  or  anticipated  weather  or 
emergency  conditions.  The  Dean  will  then  coordinate  this  information  with  the 
coniparable  conditions  -  if  any  -  affecting  the  main  campus  and  present  a  com- 
prehensive recommendation  to  the  President.  After  the  President  makes  the  deci- 
sion regarding  the  operation  of  the  North  Campus,  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs 
will  notify  the  Director  of  the  North  Campus.  The  Director  will  be  responsible  for 
noti  ying  all  appropriate  news  media  and  designated  members  of  the  North  Campus 
faculty  and  staff.  '^ 

Decision  to  Close  in  (he  Absence  of  the  President 

When  the  President  is  off  campus  and  unavailable,  the  same  procedure 
will  be  followed  in  closing  the  secondary,  postsecondary,  and  Lifelong  Education 
programs,  with  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  making  the  final  decision  and  then 
notifying  the  other  Deans.  Institutional  closings  in  the  absence  of  the  President  will 
be  made  by  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  in  consultation  with  the  Dean  of  General 
Services.  If  the  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  is  also  absent,  the  final  decision  on  in- 
stitutional closing  will  be  made  by  the  Dean  of  Employee  and  Public  Relations  in 
consiillalion  with  the  Dean  of  General  Services. 

Employee  and  Student  Notification 

(1)  While  Classes  are  in  Session 

All  administrative  offices  will  be  called  following  the  organizational 
structure,  i.e.,  the  President's  Council  and  the  switchboard  operator.  The  Presi- 
dent's Council  will  notify  their  offices  and  offices  reporting  to  them.  Division 
Directors  will  notify  faculty,  and  faculty  will  notify  students. 

The  Center  for  Lifelong  Education  will  see  that  an  appropriate  taped 
telephone  message  is  put  in  place  at  the  appropriate  times. 

(2)  While  Classes  are  nut  in  Session 

1.  The  Dean  of  Academic  Affairs  will  inform  the  Director  of  Com- 
munications who  will  see  that  a  public  announcement  is  made  on  the  following 
radio  stations:  WWPA,  WRAK/WKSB,  WILQ/WLYC-Williamsporl;  WMPT- 
Soulh  Williamsporl;  WPBZ-Lock  Haven;  WMLP-Millon;  WKOK-Sunbury; 
WNBT-Wellsboro;  WTTC-Towanda;  WSQV,  WJSA-Jersey  Shore;  WFRM- 
Coudersport;  WPGM-Danville;  WATS-Sayre  and  WSEW-Selinsgrove. 

When  an  emergency  arises  and  it  requires  that  the  College  be  closed  for 
an  extended  period  of  time  and  students  are  not  on  campus,  closing  or  opening  an- 
nouncements will  be  made  by  the  following  radio  and  TV  stations  throughout  the 
slate  in  addition  to  the  stations  named  above:  WBRE-radio  and  TV,  Wilkes-Barre; 
KYW-radio  and  TV,  Philadelphia;  WHP-radio  and  TV,  Harrisburg;  KDKA-radio 
and  TV,  Pittsburgh;  WJET-Erie,  and  WFBG-Alloona. 

2.  The  President  will  inform  the  other  Deans  who  will  implement  their 
employee  telephone  chains. 

Artists  Unlimited 
plan  spring  trip 

Artists  Unlimited  met  Jan.  20  and 
teneatively  scheduled  an  overnight  trip 
to  Washington,  D.C.  for  April  13  and 
14,  according  lo  Patrick  D.  Murphy, 
assistant  professor  of  advertising  art  and. 
the  group's  adviser. 

A  committee  was  formed  to  oversee 
fund-raising  using  primarily  a  possible 
hot  dog  sale  (with  a  variety  of 
toppings). 

Also  discussed  were  proceeds  col- 
lected from  the  Christmas  card  sale. 


According  lo  The  New  Emily 
Post's  Edquetle.  the  equipment  for 
ealiiig  raw  fruit  al  table  consists  of  a 
sharp-bladed  fruit  knife,  a  fork,  and  a 
finger  bowl.  In  a  reslaurani,  when  no 
knife  is  given  you,  il  is  proper  lo  ask  for 
one. 


BRUSHING  OFF  the  College 
walkways  was  one  of  several 
maintenance  duties  completed  last 
week  during  the  icy,  snowy,  foggy 
weather.  (SPOTLIGHT pholo  by  Mary 
L.  Pease) 

Bucknell  Univcrsily,  Lewisburg, 
defeated  Miami  (Florida),  26-0,  in  the 
1935  Orange  Bowl  Game. 


8aSPOTUCHTDMoiidiy,  Jin.  JO.  1984 


President,  senator  announce  plans 


Conlinued from  pogf  /DDD 
County  area.    - 

The  projected  size  of  the  proposed 
building  is  125,000  square  feet,  in  com- 
parison to  the  new  Lifelong  Education 
Center  (presently  being  buill)  which 
covers  83,000  square  feet. 

Estimated  cost  for  the  Advanced 
technology  and  Allied  Health  Center  is 
$14,875,000,  with  a  projected  comple- 
tion date  of  summer  1987.  Actual  con- 
struction is  slated  to  begin  early  in  1985. 

The  state  has  agreed  to  match, 
dollar-for-dollar,  half  of  the  center's 
cost,  amounting  to  $7.5  million.  Dr. 
Breuder  gave  much  credit  to  Sen.  Hager 
for  his  assistance  in  obtaining  this 
■money. 


ALCOHOL 
AWARENESS 

lufoniialinn  pfmided 
by  nmm  C.  Slioff 


Social  drinking  is: 

*A  glass  of  wine  to  enhance  a 
meal. 

*A  drink  or  two  while  you're  hav- 
ing fun. 

*Sipping  and  eating. 

*Drinking  and  talking  to  friends. 

'Knowing  when  to  say  "WHEN". 

*Never  having  to  say  you're  sorry 
for  what  you  did  while  drinking. 


MUSICIANS  WANTED 

Winfed.' 

Musicians  For 

organized  Jam 

Vocals  also  needed 

No  head  bangers  please 

Call  Pete,  322-9148 


BATONS  FOR  SALE 

Three  26-inch  batons  (2  match); 

;  baton  case;  I  hoop  baton.  $30  or  best 

offer.  Will  sell  separately.  Call  Judy  8 

a.m.  Ip  4:30  p.m..  College  F.xl.  219. 

FOR  SALE 

2  Sears  Superguard  mud  and  snow  tires 
X.S.T.  Size  A  78-13,  fiberglass  belled, 
two-ply  lubeless.  $2S  each.    Call  Ext. 

455. 

RIDE  NEEDED 

To  Wllkes-Barre/Kingslon  area  every 
Friday.  I  can  leave  about  3  p.m.  Also 
need  ride  from  W-B/Klngslon  on  Sun- 
day evening.  Call  Steve  at  327-8269 
after  5  p.m. 


Lycoming  County  has  agreed  to  in- 
vest $5  million  in  the  project,  in  addi- 
tion to  $1,034,000  coming  from  Voca- 
tional Education  Act  funds  (federal). 
There  will  be  $90,000  also  included 
from  the  Appalachian  Regional  Com- 
mission. The  balance  will  be  absorbed 
by  the  College,  according  to  Dr. 
Breuder_.  ^  _ 

A  breakdown  of  the  remaining  cost 
and  where  it  is  to  come  from  within  the 
College,  was  given  by  Dr.  Breuder  at 
the  conference.  He  said  $100,000  will 
come  from  the  Center  for  Lifelong 
Education,  $426,000  from  College 
Capital  Funds,  and  $850,000  from 
sponsoring  and  non-sponsoring  students 
($425,000  from  each).     

Dr.  Breuder  pointed  out  that  no 
extra  billing  will  occur  with  par- 
ticipating districts,  but  rather  the  money 
needed  will  simply  come  out  of  the 
regular  tuition. 

Programs  and  curriculums  pro- 
jected to  be  moved  to  the  new  building 
are  computer  science,  practical  nursing 
(LPN),  radiologic  technology,  surgical 
technology,  dental  hygiene,  and  word 
processing. 

New  programs  also  being  con- 
sidered to  be  included  in  the  building 
are  electronic  specialities,  automated 
manufacturing  technologies,  robotics, 
laser  technology,  fiber  optics,  and 
nuclear  medicine. 

Both  Sen.  Hager  and  Dr.  Breuder 
stressed  that  this  project  would 
stimulate  the  economy  in  Lycoming 
County  by  creating  new  jobs  and  bring- 
ing more  students  into  the  area. 

Dr.  Breuder  noted  that  students  are 
being  turned  away  from  the  College 
because  of  inadequatefacilities.  The 
new  center  is  estimated  to  be  able  to  ac- 
comodate about  500  more  students  each 
semester. 

Economists  are  stating  that,  with 
the  "multiplier  effect",  each  dollar 
spent  locally  o^  the  center  has  a  total 
cumulative  value  of  $1.60.  Over  $5 
million  will  be  generated  annually. 

This  figure  can  be  related  to  the 
fact  that  over  70  percent  of  every  dollar 
spent  on  the  project  is  spent  locally,  but 
mainly  from  expenditures  of  additional 
students  who  could  then  be  admitted. 

Dr.  Breuder  slated  at  the  con- 
ference that  the  new  center  means  the 
difference  between  having  a  viable  col- 
lege in  the  future  and  not  having  one. 
"There's  no  question  about  it,"  he 
said. 


PLAY  LUCKY 
NUMBERS  AND 
WIN  A  WHOLE 
SUB  AND  MED. 
DRINK 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  SI.,  WilJiamsporl 
INext  to  Academic  Ctnlerl 

PHONE  AHEAD:   322-1321 


HOURS:     7:)0  a.m.  lo  6:00  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

For  week  of  Monday,  Jan.  SO  ihrough  Sunday.  Feb.  5 

MEETINGS 

Computer  Science  Club...  3:30  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  321,  ACC. 

Ski  Club...  4  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  325,  ACC. 

Women's  Forum...  12  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  105,  ACC. 

Parents  and  Friends  of  Tol  Watch...  12  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  103, 
ACC. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau . 
Building. 

Aplha  Omega  Fellowship. ^1  p.n\.,  this  Tuesday,  Roj)m  6,  ACC. 


.  4  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  218B,  Administration 


MOVIE 

Stripes...  7:30  p.m.,  tonight,  ACC  Auditorium.  Admission  $1  with  vajidated 
student  ID.   $1  for  senior  citizens  an^  children  under  12  and  $2  for  all  others. 

SPORTS 

Wildeal  Basketball...  Wildcats  vs.  Lock  Haven  University,  8  p.m.,  tonight, 
Bardo  Gym. 

Intramural  Bowling...  ABC  Bowling  Lanes,  4  p.m.,  tomorrow. 

ACTIVITIES 

Skiing  at  Oregon  Hill...  This  Wednesday.  Bus  leaves  LRC  at  5:30  p.m.  and 
returns  at  10  p.m.    Must  sign  up  in  IM  office.  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 

Ice  Skating...  this  Thursday  at  Sunbury  Community  Youth  Center.  Free 
transportation.  Bus  leaves  LRC  at  5:30  p.m.  and  returns  at  9  p.m.  Skate  rentals, 
50  cents.    Must  sign  up  in  IM  office.  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 

Tobogganing...  This  Sunday  at  Eagles  Mere.  Free  with  validated  ID.  Bus 
leaves  LRC  at  10  a.m.  and  returns  at  3  p.m.  Must  sign  up  at  IM  office.  Room  108, 
Bardo  Gym. 

Hot  Dog  Sale...  Sponsored  by  SADHA.  10:30  a.m.  to  12  p.m.,  tomorrow, 
ACC  lobby.   Prices  are  60  cents  for  plain;  two  for  $1,  and  75  cents  with  chili. 

Agri-business  Club  volleyball  game...  Members  only.  4  p.m.,  today,  Bardo 
Gym. 

yorlh  Campus  IDs...  Will  be  taken  at  the  North  Campus  from  10  a.m.  to  4 
p.m. 


Chris  Rohmann  presents  multimedia  entertainment 


Chris  Rohmaiin,  an  Ohio-boni  singer,  wrilcr,  and  atlor  will  perform  two  shows  this 
Thursday  at  6:30  p.m.  and  8  p.m.  in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Frcmintti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  first  show,  "Wild  West  Willard"  i.s  an  "unique  entertainment"  which  expands  the 
multimedia  idea  developed  for  "Technicolor  Dreams".  "Cactus  Clem"  sings  and  narrates, 
with  the  characters'  scenes,  voices,  music  and  effects  presented  in  colorful  projections  and 
stereo  sound.  The  result  combines  the  immediacy  of  live  acticm  with  the  spectacle  of  the  big 
screen . 

Meets  Wild  'n'  Wonly  Weslerners 

"Wild  West  Willard"  is  the  story  of  a  shy  Victorian  newspaperman  who  sets  out  to  inter- 
view the  outlaw.  Screw  McDrivcr.  The  boisterous  collection  of  wild  'n'  wooly  Westerners  he 
meets  along  the  way  includes  an  entrepreneurial  sheriff,  a  gun-totin"  cowgirl,  a  150-year-old 
pros|ieclor  and  a  hilarious  assortment  of  wildlife.  In  the  end,  Willard's  quiet  perservance  and 
good  deeds  win  out  against  the  villians'  guns,  plots,  and  bad  manners. 

The  .second  show,  "Technicolor  Dreams",  is  an  "unique  concert"  combining  live  enter- 
tainment with  innovative  multimedia  elements,  a  sophisticated  blend  of  "Folk  'n'  Roll"  songs, 
colorful  projections  and  stereo  sound. 

'  Each  song  has  visual  idenily 

Rohmann  performs  a  diversity  of  original  songs  reflecting  American  life,  easygoing, 
thought-provoking  and  laced  with  humor.  High-quality  music  backing  tapes  augment  his 
guitar,  while  over  500  wide-screen  slide  images  illustrate  the  lyrics. 

Each  song  has  its  own  visual  idenity,  with  styles  ranging  from  paintings  to  photos  to  car- 
toons. The  result  is  an  engaging  performer  in  an  intriguing  sound-and-image  selling  a  full- 
stage  spectacle  with  a  small-scale  price  tag. 

A  native  of  Ohio,  Rohmann  has  only  recently  relumed  to  the  Stales  after  being  based  for 
some  time  in  England.  There  he  performed  regularly  on  British  radio  and  TV,  toured  the 
European  concert  and  festival  circuits,  produced  two  albums  of  his  songs,  had  a  top  10  hit 

■■■  Please  ttini  In  Page  4 


M» 


Spotlight 

Miinday,  Keb.  6.  1984    •    Viil,  19,  fVii.  21     •     12  PaRcs 
Williamspiirl  Area  Cmnmunily  Oitlesf    •    Williamspiirl.  Pa.  177 


Foundation  officers  re-elected    Students  aid  family  from  South  Side 


imlnjti  cmultiy  «/  Collene  Injurimlmi 

William  Pickclner,  of  1400  Camp- 
bell St.,  Williamsport,  has  been  re- 
elected president  of  the  Williamsport 
Area  Community  College  Foundation, 
Inc. 

Also  elected  were  Peyton  D. 
McDonald,  vice-president,  of  1545 
Grampian  Blvd.,  Williatnsport,  and 
James  E.  Short,  secretary/treasurer,  of 
24 10 -Blair  St.,  Williamsport. 

Also  elected  to  serve  additional 
terms  were  several  members  of  the 
Foundation's  Board  of  Directors. 

They  are  William  D.  Davis,  presi- 
dent, Commonwealth  Bank  and  Trust 
Company,  Williamsport;  R.  Lee 
Fcnslamaker,  chairman,  Williamsport 
National  Bank;  George  E.  Logue,  presi- 
dent, George  E.  Logue,  Inc., 
Williamsport;  John  B.  McMurtric, 
president,  Northern  Central  Bank, 
Williamsport;  John  Savoy,  president, 
John  Savoy  &  Son,  Inc.,  Montoursville, 
and  James  E.  Short,  president,  Jesco 
Athletic  Company,  Williamsport. 
Fdundalion  expanded 

The  Foundation  only  recently 
began  actively  pursuing  funding  in- 
itiatives. However,  since  its  inception  in 
mid-1982,  the  Foundation  has  expanded 
quickly. 

According  to  Executive  Director 
Fred  T.  Gilmour,  a  total  of  $230,386  in 
gifts  and  grants  was  received  between 
Jan.  I  and  Dec.  31,  1983.    Businesses 


and  industries  donated  $77,541  in  gifts, 
equipment  and  matching  funds.  In- 
dividuals donated  $32,145  in  gifts  and 
equipment.  Deferred  gifts  accounted  for 
$100,000  and  scholarships  and 
memorial  accounts  for  $20,700. 

The  main  purpose  of  the  Founda- 
tion is  to  encourage,  solicit,  receive  and 
administer  gifts  of  funds  and  properly 
to  benefit  the  College.  To  this  end,  the 
Foundatioti  is  establishing  an  Endow- 
ment Fund  which  will  provide  the  Col- 
lege with  an  alternate,  fiexiblc,  and  con- 
tinuing funding  source. 

Gilmour  said  the  goal  is  to  raise 
one  million  dollars  over  four  years.  The 
principle  amount  will  be  invested  while 
the  interest  income  will  be  used  to  ac- 
quire sophisticated  equipment  necessary 
to  provide  slate  of  the  art  instruction; 
upgrade  now  inadequate  laboratory 
space  to  provide  the  best  instructional 
programming  possible;  retain  faculty  to 
prepare  them  to  teach  concepts  and 
practices  used  by  tomorrow's  industries. 

Currently,  the  Foundation  is 
vigorously  pursuing  a  deferred  giving 
program  and  will  provide  additional 
memorial  gift  opportunities  in  the  near 
future.  During  1983,  the  College  receiv- 
ed $100,000  in  deferred  gifts  -  an 
anonymous  bequest  and  an  insurance 
policy  taken  out  by  Jack  Minnier  of 
Williamsport. 


The  New  American  Webster  Han 
dy  College  Dictionary  defines  favor  as 
"a  spirit  of  approval,  good  will,  an  act 
of  kindness,  not  of  scll'-scckiMg." 

On  Dec.  13  and  14,  1983,  12 
sludcnls  from  the  secondary  vocational 
program  at  I  he  College  went  to  the  aid 
of  ilic   Robert   Kline  familv  in  South 


Williamsport. 

It  rained  three  inches,  causing  the 
Klines'  back  cellar  wall  to  cave  in.  Mud 
and  cinder  bhick  debris  poured  into 
ihcir  basement.  "They  really  had  a 
problcjii."  said  Michael  J.  Slan/ionc, 
cooKlin;ilor    of    -.aoiidaiv    \ni;ili,.ii:i| 


)  Pjge  4 


Pli'U^, 


RKSPONDIINC  Ic)  a  weather  emergency  was  Ihis  group  nl  secDndarv  vocational 
students  from  South  Williamsporl  who  repaired  and  cleaned  up  a  family's  base- 
menl.  Pictured  from  lel'l  are  David  F.  Wrighl.  drafling  student;  Richard  F. 
Bolay,  masonry  student;  Kevin  S.  DeWald,  automotive  student;  Steven  M.  Shaf- 
fer, carpentry  student;  Charles  S.  Hornherger,  masonry  student;  William  J. 
Dewald,  carpentry  student;  Michael  D.  Lord,  auto  mechanics  student,  and  John 
A.  Koehlcr,  drafting  student.  Students  not  pictured  are  Bart  M.  Engel  and  James 
L.  Lyons,  welding  students;  Terry  L.  Kopp,  carpentry  student,  and  William  J. 
Relfsnyder,  masonry  student.  /SPOTLIGHT  plialo  hy  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


laSPOTUCHTDMoniHy.  Feb.  6.  IM4 

Exchange  day 
would  bring 
students 
together . 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Does  Ihe  ma|orlly  ol  students 
l<now  Ihe  College  is  comprised  ol 
various  campuses:  the  campus  in 
Williamsporl  (main  campus),  the  Earth 
Science  Campus,  Ihe  Norlh  Campus  in 
Wellsboro,  and  Ihe  Avialioo  facility  at 
Monloursville?  ^ 

We  didn't  think  so.  The 
SPOTLIGhIT  proposes  a  campus  ex- 
change day  be  arranged  This  would 
involve  bringing  students  together  for 
rap  sessions  and  to  lind  out  what  is  go- 
ing on  at  each  campus,  • 

We  could  begin  with  studenis  in 
leadership  positrons  -  such  as  club  of- 
ficers -  and  then  generalize  the  visits 

Iwlaybe  we  can  expand  knowledge 
(through  a  campus  exchange  day  or 
some  other  sort  ol  College-related  ac- 
tivity to  bring  all  students  together  and 
get  a  belter  understanding  of  Ihe 
Williamsporl  Area  Community  College. 


Cross-country  skiing  on  streets 
adds  another  threat  to  drivers 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Driving  down  a  snow-covered  street  can  be  more  dangerous  than  most 
drivers  think  Besides  watching  lor  other  vehicles,  drivers  now  have  another 
obstacle  to  look  lor  -  cross-country  skiers 

Cross-country  skiing  has  become  a  new  winter  experience  for  many  people. 
Cross-country  skiers  have  lahen  to  Ihe  snow-covered  cily  streets  to  ski  at  night. 
Straight  streets  with  packed-down  snow  provide  an  enjoyable  path  for  Ihe  skiers 

This  problems  for  drivers  never  had  lo  be  confronted  before.  Skiing  is  grow- 
ing in  popularity  as  fast  as  skateboards,  roller  skates,  and  bikes  did  at  one  time 

What  about  the  driver''  Skiers  add  still  another  threat  to  the  driver  driving  in 
inclement  weather  II  a  driver  has  lo  slop  quickly  on  icy  roads  to  avoid  hilling  a 
skier,  he  might  slide  and  do  extensive  damage  lo  his  car.  himsell.  and  perhaps 
others. 

If  skiers  must  ski  at  night,  they  should  wear  reflective  clothing  lor  their  own 
safely 

The  final  question  to  be  asked  ol  the  on-street  skier  is:  Is  the  enjoyment 
worth  the  danger  lo  him  and  Ihe  added  aggravation  to  drivers? 

Short-wave  radio  teaches 
student  about  countries 


Whaddya' 
say...  ? 


Question:    Should  churches  be 
taxed?  Why? 

Location:        Administration 
Building 

Photos  by  Mary  L.  Pease 
Text  by  Robert  W.  Mlnler 


By  Robert 

As  an  avid  devotee  ol  what  I 
believe  lo  be  one  ol  the  lesser  known 
hobbies  which  is  nol  only  amusing  but 
educational.  I  would  like  to  share  some 
of  Ihe  things  Ihat  can  be  learned  while 
having  lun  with  short-wave  radio  listen- 
ing 

I  began  my  love  affair  with 
monitoring  trans-oceanic  radio  broad- 
casts when  my  father  gave  a  birthday 
gill  10  me;  an  old  Zenith  Wave-Magnet 
shorl-wave  leceivei  From  the  mo- 
ment I  began  "skimming  Ihe  bands" 
(tuning  inio  different  stations  on  various 
wave  bands).  I  was  hooked 

I  have  never  been  to  Europe  or  to 
many  ol  the  places  I  have  heard  about 
on  my  radio,  except  lor  Canada  and 
Jamaica.  However,  from  my  avid  pur- 


O.  Hawk 

suit  ol  my  hobby,  I  have  learned  a 
wealth  of  information  about  the 
customs,  politics,  and  culture  ol  many 
loreign  peoples. 

I  began  sending  to  foreign  radio 
stations  for  program  schedules  and 
then  received  literature,  picture-post 
cards,  and  magazines  as  well  as  their 
program  schedules  With  the  periodic 
mailing  of  tellers,  this  educational  cor- 
respondence has  continued  to  a 
degree  of  my  having  stalled  a  file  lor 
this  material  Irom  the  more  than  20 
countries. 

A  short-wave  receiver  can  be 
bought  inexpensively.  The  cost  of  a 
couple  ol  stamps  can  buy  you  a  career 
as  a  world  traveler  without  ever  leaving 
your  easy  chair,  except  lor  the  walk  to 
the  mailbox. 


Richard  D.  Poling,  graphic 
arts  student  from  Aliquippa:  "No, 
because  Ihe  bible  says  10  per- 
cent should  go  to,  God  and  Ihe 
other  40  percent  should  not  go  to 
the  government." 


Bill  Phoenix,  broadcasting 
student  from  Lock  Haven  "Yes! 
Because  they  are  just  like  a 
business" 


Reviewer  critiques 
current  singles 

music  review  by  James  K.  Morrlssey 

Singles  (45  rpm  records)  are  more 
important  than  LP's.  They  are  cheaper 
than  albums  and  most  artists  release 
their  best  album  tracks  as  singles. 

Bearing  this  thought  in  mind,  let's 
have  a  look  at  some  current  singles: 

Rebel  Yell  (Billy  Idol)  -  I'm  sure 
that  Billy  would  like  to  be  the  next  Elvis 
but  he  won't  make  it  with  this  mediocre 
follow-up  to  While  Wedding. 

New  Moon  on  Monday  (Duran 
Duran)  -  A  good  chorus  makes  this 
song  a  step  better  Ihan  their  most  re- 
cent efforts. 

Send  Me  An  Angel  (Real  Life)  - 
The  Eurythmics  Fan  Club  should  be 
the  proper  name  for  this  Australian 
synthesizer  pop  group 

Let  The  Music  Play  (Shannon) 
-This  song  is  about  tragedy  on  the 
dance  lloor  A  boylriend  dances  with 
some  olher  girl  lor  awhile.  The  most 
tragic  thing  is  Ihat  there  will  be  more 
mindless  disco  records  like  this  one  on 
the  market  since  fi/lichael  Jackson's 
phenomenal  success 

99  Lullballons  (Nena)  -  The  Ger- 
man version  is  pointless  However 
the  version  with  English  lyrics  is  timely 
and  topical  The  innoceni  act  ol  releas- 
ing 99  red  ballons  becomes  sinister 
The  music  is  good  at  full  speed  but 
there  are  loo  many  changes  of  pace. 
The  lyrics  are  great  and  Ihe  music  is 
not  bad 

Electric  Kingdom  (Twilight  22)  -  I 
saved  the  best  'til  lasl  This  is  a  "rap" 
record  ("rap"  is  rhyming  black  street 
music  with  a  strict  vocal  meter)  mixed 
with  all  kinds  ol  electronic  percussion 
and  sound  effects  There  is  even  an 
electronic  harpsichord  The  record 
covers  no  new  ideas  but  it  shines 
among  its  competition  on  the  Billboard 
Magazine  singles  charts 

SPOTLIGHT 
Monday,  Feb.  6,  1984    -    Vol.  19,  No.  2t 

Trie  SPOTLIGHT  is  publistied  eacti  Monday 
morning  oi  tile  academic  year,  except  lor  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  icurnalism  and  othier  in- 
leresled  students  o(  Ttie  Williamsport  Area  Com- 
munity College 

Office.    Room  7,  Academic  Center,  1005 
W     Ttiird    St,     Wiliiamsport,     Pa      17701 
Telephone   (717)  326-3761.  Extension  221. 


Wendy  M  Reider,  graphic 
arts  student  Irom  Poltstown:  "No 
because  ol  the  separation  ol 
church  and  state  " 


Bai[>,«.-i  A  Bniink,  broad- 
casting student  trom 
Wiliiamsport:  "Yes!  II  it  is  a 
small  tax  il  won't  hurt  them." 


Tracy  A    DeCoursey.  draf- 
ting student  Itom  Williamsporl: 
"Nol    Because  everybody  gives 
$5  or  $10  in  church     And  Ihat 
goes  lor  repairs,  not  lor  taxes  " 


iM 


Michael  A.  Miller."  broad- 
casting sludenl  from  Brockway: 
"No.  because  it  is  a  non-profit 
organization  ■' 


hose  of  the  student 
newspaper  ot  of  those  whose  names  accmpany 
items  Opinions  do  not  reflect  official  opinion  of 
the  mstilutron. 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  member  of  Ihe  Colum- 
bia Scholastic  Press  Association  and  a  First 
Place  Winner  in  that  organization's  most  recent 
evaluation. 

THE  STAFF 

Joan  L.  Thompson.Managing  Fditor 

Pefry  D.  Pentz,  Editorial  Page  Editor 

Thomas  F    IVlontgomery,  Production  Supervisor 

Mary  L   Pease,  Photography  Editor 

Annette  M-  Engel,  Composition  Manager 

Thomas  H   Long,  Administrative  Allans  Editor 

Kay  M   Frace.  Student  Aflairs  Editor 

Gisela  D   Grassley.  Advertising  Manager 

Lori  M    l_ane,  Sports  Editor 

Barbi  L  Chilson.  Photo  Technician 

■  Gregory  W    Huff,  Senior  Stall  Writer 

IVIurray  J    Hanlord,  Stall  Artist 

REPORTERS/STAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Richard  E  Kopp,  Donna  M  Barnert,  Ivlarcy 
L,  Card,  Kalhleen  R  Foreman,  Kathryn  M 
Gilbert.  Robert  O  Hawk,  Shawn  W  Heverly, 
Rodney  D  Hill.  Lon  L,  Holland,  Robert  W, 
Minier,  Kathy  A  fvleixel,  Anne  T  Ivioratelli, 
James  K  Morrissey,  Ivlark  S  Schwanke.  Sandra 
R   Taylor 

Faculty  adviser   Anthony  N   CiHo 


Production  Staff  This  Issue 

Donna    M.    Barnett.    Shawn    W     Heverly, 
Gisela  D   Grassley 


SPOTLIGHTDMonday,  Feb.  6,  l9Maj 


Litton  employees 
attend  specialized 
classes  at  College 

Courlesy  College  Informalion  Office 

Foureen  employees  of  Lillon  In- 
dustries Inc.,  1035  Westminster  Drive, 
Williamsporl,  are  enrolled  in  Technical 
Physics  One  at  the  College.  The 
custom-designed  course  is  being  made 
available  by  the  Center  for  Lifelong 
Education. 

According  to  Grant  Martin,  coor- 
dinator of  specialized  technical  educa- 
tion programs.  Technical  Physics  One  is 
a  fundamental  60-hour  course  providing 
instruction  in  the  physical  sciences. 

It  is  intended  to  acquaint  Lillon 
employees  with  the  basic  principles  of 
physics  and  their  practical  applications. 

Upon  completing  the  course,  par- 
ticipants should  be  able  to  demonstrate 
a  fundamental  knowledge  of  the  struc- 
ture of  matter,  perform  simple  com- 
putations involving  force  and  motion; 
apply  the  concepts  of  work,  power,  and 
energy  and  demonstrate  a  working 
knowledge  of  fluid  mechanics. 

Martin  said  the  Litton  workers  at- 
tend classes  on  Tuesdays  and 
Wednesdays  from  4  to  6  p.m  until  May 
2. 

Certificates  will  be  awarded  to  eligi- 
ble participants. 

Technical  Physics  One  is  just  one 
of  many  special  courses  designed  by  the 
College  for  business/induslrial-rclaled 
clients. 

Haas,  PBL  president, 
issues  final  reminder 
about  book  pick-up 

Students  who  brought  books  in  to 
be  sold  ai  the  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL) 
book  sale  should  pick  ihcm  up  by  the 
end  of  this  week. 

The  books  can  be  picked  up  at  the 
PBL  office.  Room  333,  Academic 
Center  (ACC). 

"This  is  a  final  reminder,"  said 
David  A.  Haas,  club  president  and 
computer  science  student  from 
Williamsporl. 


3SSS5 


^xm^i^^w&s-^^i^^s^m^^^^'^^^^^^»^^-^''''''^'>^^^''^<'''^' 


To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

Valley  Farms  requests  your  cooperation  in  helping  them  to  reduce  the  loss  of 
milk  cases  and  to  recuperate  misused  milk  cases.  Serious  consequences  can  be 
involved  through  the  misuse  of  milk  cases. 

The  misuse  of  milk  cases  is  a  punishable  crime  according  to  the  laws  of  Pen- 
nsylvania A  milk  case  is  private  properly  and  must  be  recognized  as  such  by 
anyone  who  chooses  to  use  them  lor  reasons  other  than  transporting  milk  or  milk 
products. 

Valley  Farms  is  one  ol  the  many  dairies  in  this  Commonwealth  experiencing 
milk  case  losses  at  an  alarming  rale  The  enormity  ol  this  problem  demands  that 
action  be  taken  to  make  the  public  aware  of  consequences  involved 

Losses  result  in  an  expenditure  ol  over  $60,000  per  year  for  this  dairy  alone 
Therefore,  Valley  Farms  asks  for  your  assistance  in  collecting  milk  cases  that 
may  be  being  misused. 

Valley  Farms  is  willing  to  make  a  contribution  to  the  College  activities  fund 
lor  each  case  that  is  recovered  from  the  College, 

Anyone  with  milk  cases  may  return  them  to  the  Intramural  Athletics  and  Col- 
lege Activities  Otfice,  Room  108.  Bardo  Gym,  with  no  questions  asked.  We  will 
then  return  them  to  Valley  Farms. 

If  any  organization  or  individual  would  be  interested  in  working  with  the  dairy 
on  this  project,  they  should  contact  this  office,  Ext.  269. 

JoAnn  R.  Fremlolli 

Coordinilor  of  Inlramunl  Alhlelics 

and  College  aclivilies 


Creative 
Kitchen 


Br.  Doyle's  class  hosts  speakers 


The  first  of  five  scheduled  ap- 
pearances by  guest  speakers  in  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle's  slate  and  local 
government  class  look  place  Jan.  25. 

Mike  Rafferly,  editor  of  the  Sun- 
day GRIT  and  graduate  of  the  College, 
spoke  and  fielded  questions  as  did  Rod 
Bower,  WILQ  newscaster. 

The  speakers  focused  primarily  on 
the  area  of  "political  culture".  This 
deals  with  the  relationship  of  media  and 
government;  how  one  obtains  informa- 
tion, how  the  values  of  an  individual 

Air  conditioning/refrigeration 
curriculum  adds  a  night  class 

The  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
curriculum  has  added  another  class,  ac- 
cording to  Frank  P.  Leach,  assistant 
professor  of  air  conditioning/refrigera- 
tion. 

The  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
technology  class  is  a  scheduled  night 
class  with  a  maximum  enrollment  of  27. 
The  class  is  taught  by  part-lime  instruc- 
tor Don  Belles,  said  Leach. 

The  class  is  "ongoing 
day  program,"  he  added. 


can  affect  politics  and  political  repor- 
ting, and  the  age-old  battle  between 
politicians  and  reporters. 

An  explanation  for  this  continuous 
struggle  between  government  and 
media,  according  to  Rafferly  and 
Bower,  is  thai  most  news  publishers 
tend  to  be  conservative  while  most  news 
reporters  tend  to  be  liberal. 

The  next  speakers,  tentatively 
scheduled,  in- Dr.  Doyle's  class,  will  be 
two  county  commissioners. 

RIDE  NEEDED 
To  Wilkes-Barre/Kingslon  area  every 
Friday.  I  can  leave  about  6  p.m.  Also 
need  ride  from  Wilkes-Barre/Kingslon 
on  Sunday  evening.  Call  Sieve  at 
327-8269  after  5  p.m, 

NEEDED:  1  pair  of  14  Inch  Snow 
Tires;  Any  kind.  Reasonably  priced. 
Call  323-4915  or  326-3761.  Ext.  221, 
anytime. 


Cumptetlnii^i  al  E^panol 
lA  Spanish  biNlidayl 

Monday,  Feb.  6 

Sopa  De  Jour 

Beef  Base 

Seasoned  with  Garlic 

Paella  Valenciana 
Rice,  Shrimp,  Chicken, 

Sausage  and  Clams 
Stuffed  Pepper  with  Corn 

Sala  a  La  Valenciana 

Breadslicks/Whipped  Butter 

Chocalata  de  Melley 

(Filled  Chocolate  Cake) 

Brazo  de  Getano 

(Custard  Filled  Sponge  Roll) 

Wednesday,  Feb.  8 

French  Onion  Gratinee 

London  Broil 

Potatoes  Chantilly 

Green  Beans  Almandine 

Salad  Mary  Jane 

Kaiser  Rolls 

Mousse  Au  Chocolate 

Thursday,  Feb.  9 
Italiani  Vegetable  Soup 
Meal  or  Cheese  Filled  Manicotti     i 
Green  Beans 
Ceasar  Salad  Italian 
Garlic  Bread 
Lemon  Mousse 
Coffee,  tea,  iced  tea.  milk,  and 
water  served  with  all  meals.  Meals  cost 
$3.  Soups  served  with  homemade  rolls. 
Desserts  are  a  la  carte. 

FOR  RENT 

Clean,  furnished  rooms  for  female 
students.    Student  kitchen  and  balb. 
Only  three  blocks  from  W.A.C.C. 
Localed  al  754  W.  Third  SI.  or  phone 
326-4507. 


A  frankpledge  was  a  system  of  Old 
English  Law  that  divided  a  communilyi 
into  tithings  or  groups  of  10  men,  each' 
member  of  which  was  responsible  for 
the  conduct  of  the  other  members. 


..with  the 


#^^ 


i^Have  a  Rear 


I 


% 


c3 


on  Tuesday,  February  14. 
Remember  your  special  Valentines  with  a  gift  of 

••»  Hallmark  Cards 

and 

Russell  Stover  Candy  ••• 

quality  you've  known  and  loved  for  over  60  years 
from 
E.H.  Benisline  Pharmacy 
^!^^  2424  W.  4lh  SI. 

*Hours:    M-F  9  a.m.  'til  8  p.m 

'^^jiSal.  9  a.m.  'Ill  6  p.m^ 

*kV-.Ph.322-466i_J0^ 


m.ax 

dm 


4aSP0TLIGHTa Monday.  Feb.  6.  19(14 

Chris  Rohmann 
to  present 
entertainment 

■  ■  mConlinued from  Page  I 

single,  a  novelty  tune  called  "Funky 

Moped". 

Premiered  il  Festival 

"Technicolor  Dreams"  and  "Wild 
West  Willard"  were  premiered  at  the 
prestigious  Edinburgh  Festival,  where 
"Technicolor  Dreams"  won  the  Fringe 
First  Award. 

"Wild  West  Willard"  will  be 
shown  at  6:30  p.m.  this  Thursday  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  and 
"Technicolor  Dreams"  will  be  shown  at 
8  p.m.  There  will  be  no  admission 
charge. 

This  event  is  sponsored  by  the  Stu- 
dent Government  Association  (SGA), 
Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 


Students  aid  family  Foundation  officers  re-elected 

m^  Continued  from  Page  I  -    "      p,,  f  ,„„,7,„„//„„„7^/n  / '  *'*' 


program. 

The  12  students  are  Bart  M.  Engcl, 
Terry  L.  Kopp,  James  L.  Lyons,  Rich 
F.  Bolay,  Kevin  S.  DcWald,  William  J. 
Dewald.  Charles  S.  Hornbcrgcr,  John 
A.  Koehler,  Michael  D.  Lord,  William 
J.  Reifsnydcr,  Steven  M.  Shaffer,  and 
David  F.  Wright.  All  are  from  South 
Williamsporl. 

Working  12  hour  days,  Ihe 
students  cleaned  and  made  masonary 
repairs  on  the  cellar  walls  and  made 
Ihcm  functional  again,  he  said. 

In  a  Icller  lo  the  sludcnis,  Dr. 
William  J.  Martin,  director  of  secon- 
dary vocational  programs,  and  Sian- 
zione,  commended  Ihe  students  for 
"showing  genuine  concern  for  your 
fellow  citizens." 

The  Icller  goes  on  lo  say,  "II 
shows  thai  today's  youth  are  concerned 
aboul  people  and  will  help  when  need- 
ed." 


Non-credit  course  brochure  available 


Brochures  for  the  Spring  1984  se- 
icond  session  of  non-credil  courses  are 
available  in  the  Center  for  Lifelong 
Education,  according  lo  Mrs.  Carol  F. 
IKaufman,  coordinator  of  campus  based 
programs. 

I  "This  is  the  largest  second  session 
production  we've  had,"  Mrs.  Kaufman 
said.  "We  have  24  pages  instead  of  the 


usual  15." 

An  increase  in  non-credil  course 
;offerings  is  the  reason  for  Ihe  larger  edi- 
tion, according  lo  Mrs.  Kaufman. 

Anyone  inlercslcd  in  taking  non- 
credil  courses  or  desiring  information 
should  contact  Mrs.  Kaufman  in  the 
Cenlcr  for  Lifelong  Educalion  by  calling 
126-3727,  .326-3756  or  College  Exi.  231. 


Vbu  can  learn  tomorrow's 
technologies  in  today's  Navy. 


Tomorrow's  technologies,  tomorrow's  careers 
are  waiting  for  you  riglit  now  In  the  Navy. 
Sophisticated  technical  fields  like  computers, 
electronics,  communications  and  engineering. 
If  you've  got  solid  training  In  these  areas, 
you  can  have  a  solid  future. 
,    And  there's  no  better  place 
to  get  solid  training  in 
these  technologies  than 
in  today's  Navy.  If  you 
qualify,  you  can  sign  up 
for  guaranteed  training  In 
the  field  of  your  choice,  and  ' 
Start  after  you  graduate. 
The  siiills  you'll  learn  will 
last  a  lifetime.  The  places  - 
you  can  visit,  you'll  i 
rememl>er  for  the 
rest  of  your  life. 
To  find  out  more, 
call  your  local 
Navy  repre- 
sentative: 

1-800-692-7823 


iiiuumviuniiiDmuinimiiiniHniiiiiiiHHiiinim 


Scholarships  established  John  Savoy,  president  of  Savoy 

Scholarships    established    through  Furniture  Company,  provided  the  Col- 

the  Foundation  reflect  continued  per-  lege  with  nearly  $3,000  in  institutional 

sonal  interest  in  the  College  and  its  ser-  furniture    which    will    be    utilized    in 

vices  to  the  community  and  students.  A  various  areas  occupied  by  students, 

total   of  S20,700  was  given   for  the  Center  serves  mulli-purpose 

scholarships.                 '  Occupying   a   great   deal   of  the 

Mrs.  Ralph  Smith,  of  Watsontown,  Foundation's  time  is  the  Professional 


gave  $10,000  to  be  awarded  to  selected 
students  from  Warrior  Run  School 
District  who  enrolled  in  programs  at  the 
community  college.  The  Wheel  Inn, 
Inc.  of  Tioga  County,  a  service  club, 
gave  $8,000  to  be  distributed  to  selected 
students  enrolled  in  agriculture-related 
studies. 

Gilmour  said   that  donations  of 
equipment,  parts,  and  supplies  are  also     events 
welcome  donations  and  in  many  cases  The     Professional     Development 

are   used   as   supplements   to   thinly-     Center  is  seen  as  a  special  program  at 
stretched  budgets.  the  College  since  it  marks  the  first  time 

Most  corporations,  he  said,  realize     College  students  have  been  involved  in 


Development  Center,  now  under  con- 
struction. 

When  completed,  the  Center  will 
serve  as  a  multi-purpose 
faculty/staff/advisory  committee 
meetings.  Board  of  Trustees  meetings 
and  community  forums. 

It  will  also  be  available  for  use  by 
the    public    and    for    student    special 


the  tremendous  advantage  students  have 
working  in  a  well-equipped  technical  lab 
and  are  willing  to  invest  in  the  institu- 
tion because  they  know  the  College 
serves  their  need  for  highly  trained 
technicians. 

A  significant  donation  last  year 
was  that  of  a  Moog-Hydrapoint 
numerically  controlled  multi-axis  and 
drilling  machine.  This  gift,  from  the 
Forgflo  Corporation,  Sunbury,  was 
made  possible  by  a  Foundation  Board 
member,  George  V.  Cohen,  a 
Williamsporl  attorney. 

Various  members  of  the  Founda- 
tion's board  of  directors  have  been 
generous  with  personal  donations.  Matt 
Gibbs,  owner  of  Gibbs  Pontiac-Buick, 
Hughesville,  donated  a  1976  Buick 
Regal  to  the  secondary  auto  mechanics 
program^ 


the  construction  of  a  building  on  cam- 
pus. 

It  is  also  the  first  time  the  State  of 
Pennsylvania  has  contributed  to  a  stu- 
dent project.  The  State  will  match 
whatever  monies  the  College^raises  for 
Ihe  building  project  and  willilso  match 
other  donations,  including  materials 
and  supplies. 

Since  the  College  is  building  the 
Center  with  donated  supplies  and  funds, 
it  becomes  extremely  important  that  the 
Foundation  be  able  to  assist  in  this  ef- 
fort. 

In  this  time  of  constant  change  and 
continually     emerging     new     high 
technologies,  it  is  important  that  the  _ 
College  keep  ahead  of  the  changes. 

"It  is  vital  that  the  College  stay 
abreast  of  the  training  needs  of  our 
students.      It  is  also  important  that 


In  order  to  get  the  most  out  of  ihe  the  College  provide  for  its  own  fiscal 

gift,  students  removed  Ihe  transmission  health  by  seeking  additional  sources  of 

and  rear  axle  and  mounted  each  of  them  funds,"  Gilmour  said, 
in  diagnostic  repair  stations.    The  re-  These  needs  are  what  makes  the 

maining  body  and  chassis  components  Williamsporl  Area  Community  College 
were  given  to  the  secondary  auto  body.   Foundation  Inc.,  so  important  to  the 

shop  for  use.  College,  he  said. 

Course  provides  training  in  phototype  setting 


Graphic  Arts  Praclicum,  a  course 
designed  to  provide  training  on 
phololypc  selling  equipment  now  is  be- 
ing offered,  said  Gram  Martin,  coor- 
dinator for  specialized  technical  educa- 
tional programs. 

Inleresled  persons  must  have  some 
background  in  lypesclling,  according  lo 


information  provided  by  Martin. 

The  course  has  no  established 
hours,  but  it  must  be  taken  in  in- 
crcmenls  of  four  hours  each,  al  a  cost  of 
$12  an  increment. 

Anyone  inleresled  in  this  course 
should  conlaci  Martin  al  Ihe  Center  for 
Lifelong     Educalion     al     326-3727. 


32W756or  College  Ext.  231. 

r""  Wooly's"Plac^  -— -t 

I        Sub's-Cosmo's-Pizza 

I  made  lo  order 

I  Call  in  orders  welcome 

J       Fast-Friendly-Service 


25  cents  OFF 

Any  Whole  Sandwich 

With  This  AD 


Open;    7  a.m.  'til  7  p.m. 


234  Park  S(, 
EasI  side  of  ADM 
Phone:   326-7983    ! 

-^1 


SPOTLICHTUMoiidiy,  Feb.  6,  H84d5 


Correction 


Wheel  Inn  scholarships  awarded  to  16 


Several  errors  were  made  in  a  slory 
concerning  College  donalions  in  lasl 
week's  SPOTLIGHT.  The  donation  of 
ceramic  tile,  donated  by  American 
Olean  of  Philadelphia,  was  designated 
for  the  Construction  Technology  Divi- 
sion. 

It  should  also- be  noted  that  the 
cash  donation  made  by  IBM  is  only  a 
portion  of  their  total  contribution  to  the 
College. 

We  would  like  to  thank  Frederick 
T.  Gilmour,  executive  director  of  the 
College  Foundation,  for  bringing  this 
matter  to  our  attention. 

We  rjgrcl  any  inconvenience  the 
article  may  have  caused. 


Courlesy  College  litfonmlion  Of/ice 

In  November  198.1,  the  College  an- 
nounced that  the  Wheel  Inn  Incor- 
porated of  Roaring  Branch  has  donated 
$8,000  to  the  College  for  scholarships 
for  students  in  the  College's  Earth 
Science  Division. 

The  Financial  Aid  Office  of  the 
College  has  selected  the  first  16  reci- 
pients .of  the  Wheel  Inn  scholarship 
monies. 

All  16  students  currently  are  enroll- 
ed in  agriculture-related  programs  and 
graduated  from  high  .schools  in  Brad- 
ford, Lycoming  and  Tioga  Counties. 
They  also  carry  grade  point  averages  of 
3.0  or  belter. 

They  will  receive  scholarships  of 
$500  each,  according  to  Donald  Shade, 


director  of  financial  aid. 

Scholarship    recipients    from    the 
three  counties  are: 

Bradford  County 

Gary  L.  Fisher,  forestry  student,  of 
Trout  Run  Star  Route. 

Laurie  A.  Monro,  floriculture  stu- 
dent, of  Canton  RD  2. 

Matthew  J.  Ward,  agribusiness  stu- 
dent, of  Roaring  Brach  RD  1. 

Wilber   R.   Wheeler,  agribusiness 
student,  of  Gillett  RD  2. 

Lycnming  County 

James  A.  Chapman  Jr.,  forestry, 
of  Williamsport  RD  2. 

Pebbles  D.  Drum,  nursery  manage- 
ment, of  Williamsport. 

Gary  A.  Federowicz,  floriculture, 
of  Williamsport  RD  5. 


Dairy  herd  management  students  win  in  state  farm  show 


The  College  dairy  herd  manage- 
ment students  recently  attended,  for  the 
first  time,  and  placed  in  the  annual  farm 
show  held  in  Harrisburg. 

The  Danville  State  Farm  provided 
the  five  different  types  of  Holslein  callle 
the  sludcnls  took  that  won  them  eighth 
place,  according  to  Larry  A.  Swartz, 
agribusiness  club  president. 

The  College  also  had  a  recruiting 
booth  scl  up  providing  information  on 
the  Earth  Science  Division  of  the  Col- 
lege. 

This  division  includes  agribusiness. 


dairy   herd   management,   fioricullure, 
forest  technology,  nursery  management, 
service  and  operation  of  heavy  equip- 
ment, and  wood  products  technology. 
Scranlon  attended 

The  show  ran  from  Jan  8  through 
14  and  was  the  68th  consecutive  show. 
On  Sunday,  the  opening  day,  Lt. 
Governor  Scranton  attended  and  was 
presented  with  various  Pennsylvania 
commodities  including  pork,  beef,  miC 
and  honey,  Swariz  commenfed. 

Steers,  cows,  horses  (Clydesdales), 
sliccp.  and  pigs  were  ihc  livestock  being 


judged  this  year  at  the  show.  Chickens 
are  usually  there  also,  but  because  of 
the  avian  fiu  disease  there  were  not  any 
this  year. 

Machinery  nn  display 
Homemade  foods,  Christmas  trees, 
flowers,  and  handcrafts  were  also  there 
as   part   of  the  show   for  judging. 
Machinery  from  various  businesses  was 
also  on  display,  Swartz  said. 


Jeffrey    V.    Furek,    forestry,    of 
Hughesville  RD  2. 

Karen     Hewitt,    floriculture,    of 
Williamsport. 

Jeanetta  A.  Kline,  floriculture,  of 
Williamsport. 

Beth  L.  Moore,  nursery  manage- 
ment, of  Williamsport. 

Karen  A.  Musketnuss,  floriculture, 
of  Williamsport. 

Barbara     L.     Sonnenberg, 
floriculture,  of  Jersey  Shore  RD  1.  " 

Dianne  J.  Waldron,  floriculture,  of 
Unilyville  RD  1. 

Gregory  G.  WelshanSj  forestry,  of 
Jersey  Shore  RD  1. 

Tioga  County 

Russell  D.  Bowen,  agribusiness,  of 
Wellsboro  RD  3. 


The  show  is  held  on  a  I4-acre  com- 
plex and  is  the  largest  agriculture  ex- 
position in  the  Eastern  United  States. 
"Admission  to  the  show  is  free," 
Swariz  said,  "but  there  is  a  $2  parking 
fee." 

Swariz  commented,  "The  show  is 
so  crowded  that  you  can  hardly  see  it  in 
one  day.  It  is  one  of  the  most  looked- 
forward-to-evenls  each  year." 


President  updates  faculty/staff 
about  changes,  future  plans 


WASHING  DOWN  and  mill<ing  one  of  Ihe  cows  at  the  Farm  Show  lasl  month  is 
Pameja  Jo  Crom,  a  student  from  Jamestown,  Crawford  County.  (SPOTLIGHT 

photo  by  Kathleen  R.  Foreman) 


A  general  meeting  of  College  facul- 
ty and  staff  was  held  last  Tuesday  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  in  order 
to  bring  them  up-to-date  on  all  that's 
been  happening  concerning  Ihe  College, 
according  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder, 
College  president. 

Among  items  reviewed  was  pro- 
gress on  updating  College  facilities. 
Noted  were  plans  for  the  demolition  of 
the  Administration  Building  and 
presented  was  information  about  the 
new  Advanced  Technology  and  Allied 
Health  Center  for  which  construction  is 
to  begin  in  early  1985. 

Dr.  Breuder  also  talked  about  a 
new  tuition  system  to  be  put  into  effect 


in  the  near  future.  The  system  would 
call  for  paying  tuition  based  on  credits 
for  a  given  semester  rather  than  paying 
one  flat  rate  regardless  of  how  many 
credits.  "This  system  would  be 
beneficial  to  the  students,"  commented 
Dr.  Breuder. 

Noting  Ihe  third  anniversary  of  his 
arrival  at  the  College,  Dr.  Breuder  also 
reviewed  significant  advances  made  in 
the  past  three  years. 

Also  noted,  Ihe  president  said,  was 
climbing  enrollment,  evident  through 
the  number  of  students  attending  the 
College  this  semester.  Upon  completion 
of  the  new  center,  enrollment  is  ex- 
pected to  increase  by  a  large  percentage, 
he  said. 


McNamee  scores  32 
in  basketball  action 


"NOBODV  TOLD  ME  there  would  be  days  like  Ihls."  Working  a  half-nelson  is 
Jeffrey  A.  Kelly  as  Mark  J.  VincenI  works  on  trying  lo  gel  a  reversal. 
(SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  by  Mary  L.  Pease) 


PBL  schedules  two 

Phi  Beta  lambda  (PBL)  club 
members  have  iwo  basl(clbali  games  lin- 
ed up  (his  monlh.  PBL  will  play  Ihc 
Computer  Science  Club  on  Thursday 
Feb.  16  and  Ihc  facully  Thursday,  Feb. 
23. 

According  lo  David  A.  Haas,  club 
president  and  computer  science  student 
from  Williamsport,  the  team  members 
for  both  games  will  include: 

Jonathan  F.  Miller,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport. 

Michael  R.  Davis,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Monloursville. 

Michael     C.     Losiewicz,     retail 
management  student  from  Shamokin. 
'_      David  A.  Haas,  computer  science 


more  games 

student  from  Williamsport. 

Paul  H.  Pauling,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Montgomery. 

Jan  C.  McChcsncy,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Centre  Hall. 

Crystal  A.  Hoffman,  computer 
science  student  from  Elysburg. 

Judy  L.  Brokaw,  computer  science 
student  from  Canton. 

John  D.  Boyce,  computer  science 
student  from  Roaring  Branch. 

Both  games  will  be  played  at  7 
p.m.  in  Ihc  Bardo  Gym,  on  their  respec- 
tive nights. 

"Anybody  is  welcome  lo  attend," 
said  Haas. 


The  Wildcat  men's  basketball  Icapi. 
Icll  to  three  wins,  14  losses  after  game 
action  early  last  week.  Although  the 
icam  was  unable  to  scuffle  a  victory  pcr- 
liirmance,  Tom  C.  McNamee,  business 
management  student  from 
Williamsport,  was  able  to  hold  his  own. 

McNamee  scored  32  points  after 
silting  out  the  first  10  minutes  of  Mon- 
day's game  against  Lock  Haven  Univer- 
sity J.V.  The  Wildacts  lost,  87  to  72,  ac- 
cording to  Coach  Louis  J.  Menago, 
machine  shop  instructor. 

On  Tuesday,  Jan.  31,  the  Wildcat 
cagcrs  took  a  hard  knock  from  the 
Montgomery  County  Community  Col- 
lege, losing  102  to  59. 

Again,  McNamee  managed  to  be 
the  team's  high  scorer,  netting  19,  while 
Richard  A.  Sutton,  a  carpentry  con- 
struction student  from  Towanda, 
followed  with  17  points. 

In  earlier  action,  the  Wildcats 
played  against  Luzerne  County  Com- 
munity College  in  a  home  game  winning 
78  to  66,  according  to  Menago. 

During  that  game,  Dave  Ehly,  food 
and  hospitality  student  from  East 
Berlin,  scored  22  points  and  Timothy 
A.  Rodgers,  broadcasting  student  from 
Boyertown,  netted  21  points.  "Ehly 
and  Rodgers  didn't  start  the  game,  but 

Students  needed  for  IM  bowling 
Students  are  needed  for  intramural 

bowling  at  ABC  Lanes  on  Park  Avenue. 

The  league  needs  three  more  College 

students  to  complete  a  team,  according 

to  the  Lane's  management. 

League  bowling  is  on  Tuesdays  4  to 

6  p.m.     Interested  students  may  call 

ABC  Uncs  at  326-2885. 


TRYING  TO  ESCAPE  from  the  hold  ,>i  \U,„m  L.  J„„„,  madiinisl  general  slu- 
denl  from  Bangor,  Is  Kevin  S.  Byler,  carpentry  and  building  conslruclion 
technology  sludenl  from  Slalinglon.    (SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  bv  Mary  L   Pease) 


Bounce  Out... 

to  a 
Wildcat  Basketball 
Game  tliis  vifeekl 


We  Need 
SPOTLIGHT 

issues 

dated 
Sept.  13,  1983 
Sept.  20,  19^3 
Sept.  27,  1983 
If  you  have  copies  you  can 
part  wilh,  please  call  us  at  Ext. 
221  or  bring  lo  SPOTLIGHT  of- 
fice.    Room     7,     basement. 
Academic  Center.    We'd  like  lo 
offer  somelhing  more  tangible... 
but  how  about  undying  gralilude? 


still  scored  in  double  figures  during  the 
Luzerne  game,"  Menago  noted. 

The  Wildcats  took  on  the  Delaware 
County  Community  College  on  Jan.  21, 
losing  73  to  55  after  a  close  first  half, 
according  to  Menago.  "Delaware 
should  be  rated  the  number  one  team  in 
Ihc  league  and  our  team  really  played 
(heir  hearts  out  against  them,"  said 
Menago. 

On  Jan.  25,  the  Wildcat  cagcrs 
dominated  the  first  half  of  the  game 
played  against  Bucks  County  Communi- 
ty College  and  at  one  lime  were  ahead 
by  10  points,  stated  Menago. 

The  team  fell  behind  in  the  second 
half  with  a  final  score  of  79  to  65. 
"They  really  handed  us  that  game  on  a 
silver  platter.  We  just  didn't  take  it;  our 
defense  had  a  lapse  midway  through  the 
first  half  which  let  them  (Bucks)  rally 
and  catch  up,"  said  Menago. 

During  the  game,  Rodgers  had 
seven  rebounds  and  Ehly  had  seven 
assists  which  was  a  plus  for  the  team; 
but,  "if  we  had  to  list  two  reasons  why 
we  lost,  we  would  have  to  say  it  was  our 
free  throw  shooting  and  minimal  re- 
bounds," stated  Menago.  McNamee 
scored  nine  field  goals  and  two  free 
throws  during  the  game. 

Tennis  team  needs  players 

Tennis  Coach  James  S.  Young, 
carpentry  instructor,  is  still  looking  for 
full-time  students  interested  in  playing 
on  the  team. 

Any  student  wanting  to  join  may 
contact  Young  at  College  Ext.  476. 

The  matches  are  scheduled  to  begin 
April  3. 

"The  team  will  begin  practicing  as 
soon  as  snow  leaves  the  courts,"  said 
Youqg. 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Today 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 
Baskelball...  8  lo  9:30  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Weight  room...  4  lo  10  p.m. 
Bowling...  4  lo  6  p.m. 
Volleyball...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 

Wednesday,  Feb.  8 
Weight  room...  4  lo  10  p.m. 
Volleyball...  6:.30  lo  9:30  p.m. 
Basketball  league...  8  lo  9:30  p.m. 

Thursday,  Feb.  9 
Weight  room...  4  lo  10  p.m. 
Soccer...  4:30  lo  7  p.m. 


Seber  bowls  number  one 
position  in  top  five  averages 


SP0TI,I(;HT     Monday,  fch    6,  1984     7 


Several  leams  arc  in  the  running  for 
ihe  lop  spols  in  inlramural  bowling  after 
lasi  week's  iiiaicli-ups.  Tlic  laicsi 
resulls,  according  lo  llie  Lanes'  manage- 
mcnl: 

Team  slandings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  Dew  Crew  6         3 

2.  High  Rollers  6         3 

3.  CU-JO  6         3 

4.  Bonehcads  6         3 

5.  Destroyers  5         4 

6.  The  Cillo-Etls  5         4 

7.  The  Mad  Hallers  4         5 

8.  Flinlstoncs  •  4  5 

9.  Head  Pins  4         5 

10.  Unprcdidables  3         6 

11.  Bandits  2         7 

12.  Team*  11  0         9 

Men's  high  single 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranlon, 
bowled  a  231. 

Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business 
management  student  from 
Williamsport,  bowled  a  228. 

Edward  A.  Moore,  autobody  stu- 
dent from  Shavertown,  bowled  a  201. 
Women's  high  single 

Cindy  M.  Cekovich,  floriculture 
student  from  Mechanicsburg,  199. 

Delta  Phi  Omega  to  meet 
today  and  this  Thursday 

The  newly-formed  electronics  club. 
Delta  Phi  Omega,  will  meet  at  3  p.m., 
today  and  at  4  p.m.,  this  Thursday  in 
Room  118,  Electronics  Division  of  the 
Administralion  Building,  according  to 
club  secretary,  LuAnn  E.  Howey. 

The  meetings  will  concern 
organization  of  the  club  and  fund- 
raising  projects,  said  Miss  Howey. 

She  added  that  interested  students 
are, urged  to  attend. 


Dcnise  M.  McNeil,  coinpulcr 
science  .student. from  Williamsporl.  173. 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  .science 
siudent  from  Cogan  Station,  150. 
High  learn  single 

1.  Destroyers,  849. 

2.  CU-JO,  8.39. 

3.  Cillo-Ells,  8.39. 

Men's  High  scries 
Reamsnyder,  bowled  a  600. 
Seber,  588. 

Doug  E.  Mayer,  business  manage- 
ment siudent  from  Williamsporl,  544. 
Women's  high  series 
Cekovich,  434. 
McNeil,  432. 
King,  421. 

High  learn  series 
CU-JO,  2419. 
Unpredictables,  2389. 
Destroyers,  2380. 

Top  five  averages 

Seber,  210. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  201. 

Reamsnyder,  200. 

Mayer,  191. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Shohola,  180. 

Nursing  students 
should  file  for  aid 

According  to  Donald  S.  Shade, 
director  of  financial  aid,  students  who 
began  classes  in  August  1983  in  the  nur- 
sing program  should  file  an  application 
in  order  to  receive  aid  for  their  last 
semester. 

Students  who  enrolled  in  the 
January  1984  class  must  file  in  order  to 
recieve  aid  for  their  last  two  semesters, 
he  said. 


„  YOUR 
TICKET  TO 
THE  MOSTEXCITING 
SPORTSi 


TURN  US  ON 

88FN\ 

wiiiiHiiiunmiuniiiiiiiiiiiiiuniHiiiinninnniHiiiiniiuiiiiiiHiiiiimiimiiuiminflimmiiiuiumHiiiiiiiuiiJiiHiiiiiiil 


WORKING  for  a  take-down  is  Mark  J.  Vincent  against  Jcltrcv  \.  Kelly. 
(SPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Man  L.  Pease)       _ 

Volleyball  tournament 
action  begins  tomorrow 

There  will  be  a  clinic  for  intramural 
volleyball  participants  6  to  8  p.m. 
tonight  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotli,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

The  tournament  action  will  begin 
4:30  p.m.  tomorrow  and  continue  from 
6:30  to  9:30  p.m.  Wednesday  in  Ihe 
Bardo  Gym. 

Students  acting  as  game  officials 
must  attend  the  clinics  tonight  from  i  to 
10  p.m.  and  Wednesday  from  5  lo  6 
p.m.  in  Room  102,  Bardo  Gym,  added 
Mrs.  Fremiotli. 

The  clinics  are  sponsored  by  Ihe  of- 
fice of  intramural  sports  and  College  ac- 
tivities through  the  Cente/  for  Lifelong 
Education,  noted  Mrs.  Fremiotli. 


Basketball  league 
action  continues 
at  8  tonight 

The  76ers  will  take  on  the  Iceberg 
I  Bombers  in  basketball  league  action 
1  tonight  at  8  and  the  Tarheels  will 
challenge  Blitzkreig  Wednesday  at  8 
p.m.  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  according  lo 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotli.  coordinator 
of  inlramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

The  five-on-five  basketball  league 
has  been  continued  because  of  interest 
expressed  by  students  after  basketball 
tournament  actiori  last  semester.  The 
College  only  sponsors  one  tournament 
per  sport  each  academic  year,  added 
Mrs.  Fremiotli. 


TRYING  TO  TURN  Mark  J.  Vincent,  a  foresi  lechnology  student  from 
Bloomsburg,  with  a  power  half-nelson,  is  Jeffrey  A.  Kelly,  an  aviation 
maintenance  technician  student  from  Lewislown.  (SPOTLIGHT  plioio  by  Man 
L.  Pease) 

Students  search  for  appliances 
in  need  of  repair  for  learning  project 

Air  conditioning/refrigeration  students  are  looking  for  any  air  conditioners, 
refrigerators,  or  dehumidifiers  which  need  repair,  according  to  Frank  P.  Leach, 
assistant  professor  of  air  conditioning/refrigeration. 

The  sludenls  will  repair  Ihe  unils,  if  possible,  bul  owners  musl  buy  parls  if  they 
are  needed,  said  Leach. 

Anyone  with  an  air  conditioner,  refrigerator,  or  dehumidifier  needing  repair 
may  contact  Leach  at  Ext.  483. 


SaSPOTLIGHTDMoiid^.  Ftb.  6.  1984 

Dean  ^s  List 
for  last  semester 
announced 


Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch,  dean  of 
academic  affairs,  has  released  the 
Dean's  LisI  al  ihe  College  for  Ihc  Fall 
1983  Semester.  Approximately  600 
students  in  degree  and  certificate  pro- 
grams attained  the  dean's  list  with  a 
cumulative  grade  point  average  of  3.5  or 
better. 

ADAMS  COUNTY 
Stanley    J.    Mcnizcr,    Box    217, 
Arendlsvillc,   computer  operator  and 
Gregory  A.  Pauil,  RD  I,  Box  52,  York 
Springs,  welding. 

BEDFORD  COUNTY 
Harry     R.     Shaffer,     RD     I, 
Schellsburg,  construction  carpentry  and 
Jacob  W.  Ebersole,  Box  80,  Imlcr  RD 
I,  civil  engineering  technology. 
BERKS  COUNTY 
Lon  W.  Zieglcr,  PO  Box  9,  Max- 
alawny,  aviation  technology;  Thomas 
E.  Bieber,  Box  54,  Oley,  tool  design 
tcchnnlogy;  Kriss  A.  Bcrgcr,  922  Main 
SI.,  Shocmakcrsville,  electrical  occupa- 
tions and  Gregory  S.  Rarick,  Box  117, 
Bowers,  auto  body  repair. 

BLAIR  COUNTY 
j  Charles  E.  Bossier  Jr.,  3117  Spruce 
jAve.,  Altoona,  auto  body  repair; 
Daniel  Coldwell,  1314  I8lh  Ave.,  Al- 
[loona,  electrical  occupations;  Wesley 
H.  Lalchford,  Box  29,  Altoona  RD  4, 
'broadcasting;  Patrick  H.  O'Brien,  Box 
351,  Altoona  RD  2,  auto  body  repair; 
Daniel  C.  Zeth,  303  Mountain  Ave., 
Altoona,  electrical  occupations;  Kevin 
E.  Adams,  1924  First  Ave.,  Altoona, 
electrical  technology  and  Robert  A. 
Davis,  616  Lehigh  Lane,  Altoona,  auto 
body  repair. 

Pete  J.  Morina,  2511  Fourth  Ave., 
Altoona,  construction  carpentry; 
William  J.  Wiedcmer,  931  Fourth  Ave., 
Duncansville,  electrical  technology; 
Craig  D.  Meadows,  1111  Union  St., 
Hollidaysburg,  architectural 
technology;  Robert  H.  Fleegic,  Box 
62A,  Martinsburg,  RD  1,  welding; 
Daniel  W.  Cannistraci,  2203  Hamilton 
Ave.,  Tyrone,  machinist  general;  David 
C.  Fink,  Box  367,  Tyrone  RD  3,  con- 
struction carpentry  and  Jeffrey  S. 
Loose,  752  South  Lincoln  Ave., 
Tyrone,  carpentry  and  building  con- 
struction technology. 

BRADFORD  COUNTY 
David  V.  Cole.  RD  3,  Troy,  com- 
puter science  technology;  Douglas  S. 
Welch,  PO  Box  305,  Troy,  technical  il- 
lustration; Brent  W.  Sherman,  RD  3, 
Box  48,  Troy,  aulo  body  repair;  Mark 
R.  Shedden,  RD  IV Canton,  computer 
science  technology;  Jon  S.  Percival,  RD 
I,  Canton,  accounting;  Tammy  K. 
•Wilcox,  RD  1,  Box  66,  Canton,  word 
processing;  Leslie  D.  Hairc,  RD  1,  Box 
153,  Canton,  tool  design  technology; 


Jeffrey  A.  Rnbbins,  RD  1,  Box  240, 
Milan,  electrical  technology;  Thomas  E. 
Souto,  RD  2,  Box  67,  Rome,  construc- 
tion carpentry;  Paul  A.  Bennett,  104 
Elizabeth  St.,  Towanda.  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration; Paul  L.  Vanderpool, 
RD  4,  Box  184,  Towanda,  plumbing 
and  heating  and  Patricia  Korb.  RD  2, 
Box  242,  Wysox,  advertising  art. 
BUCKS  COUNTY 

Staccy  L.  Schnure,  Penns  Creek, 
radiologic  technology  and  Dean  M. 
Litzcnberger,  RD  1,  Box  131, 
Riegelsvillc,  carpentry  and  building  con- 
struction technology. 

BUTLER  COUNTY 

Richard  J.  Waltman,  Danville 
Road,  Box  1779,  Chicora  RD  2, 
machine  tool  Icclinology. 

CAMBRIA  COUNTY 

Thomas  R.  Behc,  Box  140,  Car- 
rolltown  Rd,  electrical  occupations; 
Hcibcrl  R.  Pailsch,  Box  98,  Johnstown 
RD  2,  diesel  mechanics;  William 
Baywond,  521  Mars  St.,  Johnstown, 
construction  carpentry;  Francis  M.  Pen- 
track,  154  Chandler  Ave.,  Johnstown, 
electrical  occupations;  John  A. 
Kozorosky,  Box  279,  Johnstown  RD  6, 
service  and  operation  of  heavy  equip- 
ment; David  M.  Thrower,  Box  182, 
Dunlo,  diesel  mechanics;  John  M. 
Drahnak,  Box  185,  Ebensburg  RD  I, 
diesel  mechanics  and  Francis  J.  Jubari, 
PO  Box  175,  Portage,  electrical  occupa- 
tions. 

Regina  M.  Krumenakcr,  413  Park 
Ave.,  Cresson,  food  and  hospitality 
management;  Jamie  J.  Dubetsky,  Box 
3IQ,  Hastings  RD  1,  machinist  general; 
Richard  W.  Finel,  PO  Box  181,  Fourth 
Ave.  and  Harvey  St.,  Hastings, 
machinist  general;  Daniel  F.  Seminsky, 
363  Corrine  St.,  Johnstown,  electrical 
technology  and  Francis  R.  Krug,  RD  3, 
Box  380,  Ebensburg,  machine  tool 
technology. 

CAMERON  COUNTY 

David  B.  Smith  II,  240  West 
Seventh  St.,  Emporium,  carpentry  and 
building  construction  technology  and 
Douglas  P.  Pennington,  PO  Box  133, 
Emporium,  electronics  technology. 
CENTRE  COUNTY 

William  A.  Harkness,  24 
Cricklcwood  Circle,  Stale  College, 
carpenlry  and  building  construction; 
Terry  A.  Gingher,  239  Science  Park 
Road,  Slate  College,  agribusiness;  Mark 
A.  Malinoski,  1111  SmithHeld  Circle, 
State  College,  computer  science 
technology;  Donald  D.  Mcsavagc,  792 
Westerly  Parkway,  State  College  elec- 
trical occupations;  Anthony  A.  Pigott, 
540  East  Prospect  Ave.,  State  College, 
civil  engineering  technology;  Matthew 
R.     Montgomery.     355     Lieb     St., 


Bellefonle,  wood  products  technology 
and  Christopher  R.  Larimer,  127  North 
Main  St.'.  Pleasant  Gap,  computer 
science  lechnology. 

Joseph  E.  Capperella.  131  Oak  St.. 
Pleasant  Gap.  automotive  mechanics; 
Todd  K.  Fetterolf.  112  East  Ridge  St.. 
Centre  Hall,  engineering  drafting 
lechnology;.Bryan  D.  Musser,  Box  179, 
Centre  Hall,  industrial  drafting;  Wendy 
S.  Fahl.  RC  28.  Howard  RD  1.  dental 
hygiene;  Daniel  L.  Richner.  Box  298. 
Howard  RD  1.  electronics  technology; 
Darryl  R.  Wenrick,  Box  398.  Howard 
RD  I,  machine  tool  technology;  Shawn 
W.  Fry.  Box  302.  Lemonl.  carpentry 
and  building  conslruction  technology; 
James  McTavish,  507  Eleventh  St. 
Philipsburg.  service  and  operation  of 
heavy  equipineni;  David  L.  Simcox,  205 
Walnut  St.,  Philipsburg,  tool  design 
technology;  Bradley  H.  Henshaw,  RD 
I,  Box  240  AB,  Port  Matilda, 
automotive  technology  and  Carolyann 
K.  Vonada,  RD  2,  Box  88.  Spring 
Mills,  computer  science  technology. 
CHESTER  COUNTY 

Greig  J.  Healy.  1404  Price  Lane, 
Dowingtown,  carpentry  and  building 
construction  lechnology;  Loren  J.  Ruth, 
RD  1,  Box  496,  Spring  City,  dairy  herd 
management  and  Steven  A.  Nelson,  RD 
3,  Box  29,  Elverson,  plumbing  and 
healing. 

CLARION  COUNTY 

Michael  R.  McCleary,  Box  233, 
Knox,  machine  tool  lechnology; 
Maurice  F.  Bauer,  Box  148,  Lucinda, 
accounting  and  Ronald  A.  Weaver,  Rt. 
66,  Snydcrsburg,  machinist  general; 
Steven  E.  SchreccngosI,  Box  33, 
Fryburg,  electrical  technology. 

CLINTON  COUNTY 

Craig  A.  Brickley,  RD  1,  Box  309, 
Beech  Creek,  electronics  technology; 
Milton  J.  Schwab,  Box  404,  Lamar, 
computer  science  lechnology;  Alaina  A. 
Doyle,  102  East  Sylvan  Ave.,  Avis,  con- 
struction carpenlry;  Jeanette  L.  Fox, 
404  Fairvicw  St.,  Avis,  business 
management;  Jcffry  L.  Maffetl,  416 
Ross  St.,  Avis,  computer  science 
technology;  Craig  W.  Hakin,  Smith  St., 
Box  418,  Avis,  machine  tool 
lechnology;  Susan  R.  McCracken,  PO 
Box  762,  Avis,  computer  operator; 
Sherri  Hoffman,  Box  614,  Avis,  com- 
puter science  lechnology;  Cynthia  A. 
Wise,  RD  2,  16  Park  Drive,  Lock 
Haven,  accounting  and  Linda  K.  Har- 
dy, RD  1,  Box  399F,  Lock  Haven,  ac 
counting. 

Karen  L.  Genevish,  193  North 
Fairview  St.,  Lock  Haven,  floriculture; 
James  E.  Eisenhauer,  1305  West  Fourth 
St.,  Lock  Haven,  welding;  David  P. 
Showan,  14  Parkwood  Drive,  Lock 
Haven,  automotive  technology;  James 
W.  Condo,  Box  402N,  RD  1,  Lock 
Haven,  auto  body  repair;  Randy 
Frankhouser,  Box  69,  Star  Route,  Lock 
Haven,  service  and  operation  of  heavy 
construction  equipment;  Gene  R. 
Mader,  111  Oak  Lane,  Fleminglon, 
food  and  hospitality  management; 
Samuel  R.  Wert,  844  West  Third  St., 
Lock  Haven,  construction  carpentry 
and  Barbara  E.  Filing,  220  Fairview 
St.,  Lock  Haven,  food  and  hospitality 
management. 


Kenneth  L.  Bowes.  1213  North 
Hillview,  Lock  Haven,  welding;  Kevin 
J.  Webb.  42  North  Fairview  St.,  Lock 
Haven,  construction  carpenlry;  Daniel 
J.  Moyer.  RD  2.  Loganton,  welding; 
Timothy  L.  Allen,  RD  3,  Box  I,  Mill 
Hall,  electronics  lechnology;  Marvin  R. 
Walizcr.  RD  i.  Box  341,  Mill  Hall, 
construction  carpentry;  Carol  T. 
Straley,  RD  I,  Box  131A,  Mill  Hall,  in- 
dividual studies;  Thomas  M.  Smith,  201 
Hobson  St.,  Mill  Hall,  electronics 
technology  and  Nancy  M.  Connor,  RD 
1,  Box  265F,  Mill  Hall,  accounting. 

Barbara  J.  Bair,  RD  3,  Box  452, 
Mill  Hall,  dairy  herd  management; 
Charles  D.  Wagner,  305  Magnolia  St., 
Mill  Hall,  business  managemenl;  Keith 
M.  Shearer,  143  I2lh  St.,  Renovo, 
automotive  mechanics;  Joseph  G. 
Brookens,  243  Pennsylvania  Ave., 
Renovo,  electrical  occupations;  Lewis 
W.  Davis,  West  Renovo  Road,  Star 
Route,  Renovo,  electrical  occupations; 
Richard  R.  O'Donnell,  148  11th  St., 
Renovo,  computer  science  lechnology; 
Keith  N.  Rockey,  Box  22,  Salona, 
welding  and  Andy  C.  Seyler,  RD  1,  Box 
545,  Mill  Hall,  electronics  technology. 
CLEARFIELD  COUNTY 
Christine  M.  Munn,  117  South 
Ave.,  DuBois,  computer  science 
lechnology;  Daniel  L.  Ross,  Weslover 
RD  I,  diesel  mechanics;  Kevin  E. 
Rollin,  1004  Ogden  Ave.,  PO  Box  385, 
Clearfield,  machine  tool  lechnology; 
Thomas  A.  Baroni,  521  East  Sixth  St., 
Clearfield,  machinist  general;  Robin  E. 
Bell,  PO  Box  551,  Clearfield,  plumbing 
and  heating;  Mark  A.  Barger,  1206 
Parkview  Drive,  Clearfield,  conslruction 
carpentry;  Harry  S.  Holland,  Box  555, 
Curwensvillc,  RD  1,  nursery  manage- 
menl and  Rodney  A.  Eisenhower,  213 
Filbert  St.,  Curwensvillc,  conslruction 
carpentry. 

Pamela  M.  Martin,  PO  Box  13, 
Grassflal,  radiologic  lechnology;  Neil  J. 
Pillot,  PO  Box  12,  Grassflal,  carpentry 
and  building  construction  technology; 
Jeffrey  J.  Potter,  PO  Box  1,  Karthaus, 
electronics  technology  and  Dennis  A. 
Nearhood,  Box  3,  Winburne,  RD  2. 
construction  carpentry. 

COLUMBIA  COUNTY 
Timothy  C.  Karns.  RD  I.  Mill  St.. 
Benton,  machine  look  technology; 
Dawna  K.  Alberlson.  PO  Box  391. 
Benton,  secretarial  science;  Roger  L.  Id- 
dings,  RD  I,  Box  355A,  Benton,  service 
and  operation  of  heavy  conslruction 
equipment;  Guy  Mensch,  RD  3, 
Bloomsburg,  electrical  technology; 
Charles  B.  Gregory  3rd,  441  Railroad 
St.,  Bloomsburg,  computer  science 
technology;  Jeffrey  E.  Stone,  299 
Drinker  St.,  Bloomsburg,  electrical 
technology;  Sandra  F.  Hess,  RD  9,  Box 
9,  Bloomsburg,  floriculture;  Danny  L. 
Carey,  RD  4,  Bloomsburg,  electrical 
lechnology;  Kevin  P.  Johnson,  RD  5, 
Bloomsburg,  deisel  machanics  and 
James  E.  Levan,  RD  3,  Box  128, 
Calawissa,  diesel  mechanics. 

William  C.  Uplou,  Route  2,  Box 
205,  Millville,  computer  science 
technology;  Mary  Lou  Whilmoycr,  RD 
2,  Box  204.  Millville.  computer  science 
technology;  Jack   P.   Mrock,  Box  85. 

■■■  Please  liini  lit  Page  9 


Dean  ^s  List 


■■■  Coiilinued  from  Page  S 

Millvillc,  service  and  opcralion  of  heavy 
conslruclion  equipment;  Frank  J. 
Smilli,  RD  2,  Box  241,  Millvillc,  com- 
puter science  technology;  Todd  M. 
Whitmoyer,  RD  2,  Box  175,  Millvillc, 
accounting;  Earl  D.  Martz,  RD  1, 
Millvillc,  industrial  drafting;  Terry  R. 
Hess,  RD  2,  Box  96C,  Orangeville,  elec- 
trical occupations  and  Donald  S.  Doty, 
Box  32,  Stillwater,  automotive 
technology. 

CUMBERLAND  COUNTY 

Peter  W.  Nebroski,  824  Center  St., 
Enola,  electrical  technology;  Larry  A. 
Swartz,  1183  York  Road, 
Mechanicsburg,  agribusiness;  David  B. 
Orndorf,  311  Elgin  Circle, 
Mechanicsburg,  machine  tool 
technology  and  Gregory  S.  Gibson,  212 
Beaver  Drive,  Mechanicsburg,  welding. 
DAUPHIN  COUNTY 

Victor  M.  Reiner,  230  Spruce  St., 
Elizabelhville,  industrial  drafting; 
Thomas  M.  Wolfe,  474  West  Main  St., 
Elizabelhville,  dicsel  mechanics;  Ton  I. 
Chau,  21  South  Fourth  St.,  Halifax, 
machine  tool  technology;  Frank  A. 
Lesher,  1460  Deerfield  Drive,  Hum- 
mclslown,  machine  tool  technology; 
Philip  A.  West,  RD  1,  Box  40,  Lykens, 
auto  body  repair;  Craig  E.  Umbcrgcr, 
Wiconisco,  construction  carpentry; 
Walter  C.  Eshenaur,  4030  Nancy  Drive, 
Harrlsburg,  plumbing  and  healing  and 
Robert  D.  Decker,  125  Bailey  St., 
Stecllon,  machinist  general. 

DELAWARE  COUNTY 

Paul  A.  Gewiss,  314  North  Pro 
vidence  Road,  Media,  construction 
carpentry  and  Daniel  C.  Currie,  127 
Colfax  Road,  Haverlown,  electrical 
technology. 

ELK  COUNTY 
Timothy  C.  Reilz,  Box  219, 
Brockporl  RD  I,  machine  tool 
technology;  Joseph  D.  Decarli,  Box  25, 
Byrncdalc,  electrical  occupations;  Alan 
M.  Simchick,  321  Woodland  Ave., 
John.sonburg,  air  conditioning/refrigera- 
tion; David  F.  Gausman,  322  Mohawk 
Ave.,  Ridgway,  civil  engineering 
technology;  Joseph  J.  Sanliso,  613 
North  Broad  St.,  Ridgway,  inachine 
tool  technology;  Paul  G.  Tettis,  520 
North  Broad  St.,  Ridgway,  plumbing 
and  healing;  Mark  J.  Sicheri,  144 
Teaberry  Road,  Si.  Mary's,  machinist 
general  and  Michael  J.  Corlina,  142 
Teaberry  Road,  St.  Mary's,  machinist 
general. 

ERIE  COUNTY 
Randall  E.  Morion,  Box  198,  Cor- 
ry  RD  2,  electronics  technology;  Robert 
C.  Brigham,  427  Mead  Ave.,  Corry, 
carpentry  and  building  conslruclion 
technology;  Harry  A.  Jones,  916  Lake 
St.,  Girard,  nursery  management  and 
Mark  A.  Larsen,  407  Rasbcrry  St., 
Eric,  service  and  operation  of  heavy 
conslruclion  equipment. 

FULTON  COUNTY 
Todd  W.  Grissinger,  Box  546, 
Huslonlown,  machine  tool  technology; 
Danny  M.  Crousc,  Rt.  1,  Box  6,  Need- 
more,  machine  tool  technology  and 
Derek  J.  Hendershol,  Rt.  I,  Box  12, 
Warfordsburg,     machine     tool 


technology. 

HUNTINGDON  COUNTY 

Timothy  D.  Mansberger,  822  Pen- 
nsylvania Ave.,  Huntingdon,  machine 
tool  technology;  Guy  D.  Hicks,  PO  Box 
55,  King  St.,  Petersburg,  tool  design 
technology  and  John  Q.  Zinobile,  Box 
92A,  Mapleton  Depot,  RD  I,  electrical 
occupations. 

INDIANA  COUNTY 

Richard  M.  Yandrick,  267  South 
14lh  St.,  Indiana,  civil  engineering 
technology. 

JEFFERSON  COUNTY 

Michael  Mennitli,  303  Fourth  St., 
Reynoldsvillc,  machinist  general. 

LEHIGH  COUNTY 

Scott  R.  Mondschein,  137  South 
Fifth  St.,  Coplay,  electrical  occupa- 
tions; Joseph  S.  Pavolko,  Rte.  2,  Box 
379-6F,  Coplay,  machine  tool 
technology;  Robert  P.  Kuder  II,  3402 
Main  St.,  Neffs,  machine  tool 
technology;  Timothy  J.  Smoyer,  RD  1, 
Box  414,  Woodlea  Road,  Orefleld, 
machine  tool  technology;  Kevin  S. 
Byler,  RD  2,  Box  343,  Slatington, 
carpentry  and  building  construction 
technology. 

LUZERNE  COUNTY 

Jeffrey  F.  Klein,  775  Branch  Court, 
Hazleton,  diesel  mechanics;  John  P. 
Klein,  775  Branch  Court,  Hazleton, 
diesel  mechanics;  Barry  J.  Kapish,  643 
Putnam  St.,  West  Hazleton,  diesel 
mechanics;  Charles  E.  Koch,  31  West 
Sixth  St.,  Hazleton,  automotive 
technology;  Dennis  Rosato,  638  Hayes 
St.,  Hazleton,  electrical  occupations; 
George  J.  Solanick,  RD  Box  804, 
Freeland,  tool  design  technology;  Eric 
A.  Cornell,  RD  I,  Box  92,  Hunlock 
Creek,  conslruclion  carpentry;  Lori  D. 
Mowery,  RD  1,  Box  1602,  Nescopeck, 
advertising  art;  Thomas  W.  Judge,  RD 
1,  Box  246,  Sweet  Valley,  diesel 
mechanics;  Bruce  A.  Hontz,  128  Mill 
St.,  Wilkes-Barre,  nursery  management 
and  Pamela  R.  Spong,  105  North  Grant 
St.,  Wilkes-Barre,  computer  science 
technology. 

LYCOMING  COUNTY 

Martin  D.  Brule,  232  Campbell 
St.,  Williamspofl,  machinist  general; 
Arthur  L.  Clark,  2351  West  Fourth  St., 
Williamsport,  service  and  operation  of 
heavy  conslruclion  equipment;  Monica 
J.  Konyar,  1115  Collage  Ave., 
Williamsport,  unclassified;  John  A. 
Barrile,  380  Rose  St.,  Williamsport,  air 
conditioning/refrigeration;  Mark  P.  Mc- 
Cay,  344  East  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport, 
aulo  body  repair;  David  J.  Holub, 
1521 '/2  West  Southern  Ave.,  South 
Williamsport,  computer  science 
technology;  Jeffrey  G.  Harvey,  755 
West  Fourth  St.,  Williamsport,  broad- 
casting and  Tammy  Y.  Watkins,  282 
Randall  Circle,  Williamsport,  dietetic 
technician. 

Robert  D.  Henry,  2251  Fox  SI., 
Williamsport,  conslruclion  carpentry; 
Tom  E.  Fischer,  1013  Hepburn  St., 
Williamsport,  computer  operator'; 
David  A.  Badger.  720  Main  St..  South 
Williamsporl,     computer    science 


technology;  Barbara  E.  Hunter,  1221  Vi 
Sherman  St.,  Williamsport,  accounting; 
Janet  M.  Colegrove,  1931  Newberry  St., 
Williamsport,  industrial  drafting  and 
Steven  B.  Rankinen,  RD  2,  Box  280F, 
Williamsport,  machine  tool  technology. 
William  P.  Welch,  941  First  Ave., 
Williamsport,  diesel  mechanics;  Jeffrey 
A.  Solomon,  710  Walnut  St., 
Williamsport,  engineering  drafting 
technology;  Michael  L.  Bower,  RD  3, 
Box  151,  Williamsport,  electronics 
technology;  Francis  J.  Bennett,  259 
Edgewood  Ave.,  Duboistown, 
automotive  technology  and  Larry  E. 
Partch,  1016  West  Third  St., 
Williamsport,  electrical  technology. 

Annette  M.  Engel,  702  West 
Mountain  Ave.,  South  Williamsport, 
journalism;  Michael  J.  Massaro,  814 
Hepburn  St.,  Williamsport,  computer 
science  technology;  Robert  L. 
Van  Allen,  2220  Fox  St.,  Williamsport, 
computer  operator;  Don  A.  McKittrick, 
1413  Elwood  Road,  Williamsport,  air 
conditioning/refrigeration;  James  A. 
Welfiey,  1005  West  Fourth  SI., 
Williamsporl,  forest  technology  and 
Max  A.  Galsche  Jr.,  2438  Euclid  Ave., 
DuBoistown,  machinist  general. 

Karen  R.  Hewitt,  903  Sheridan  St., 
Williamsport,  floriculture;  Jeffrey  M. 
Gerber,  633  Market  St.,  South 
Williamsport,  welding;  Thomas  E. 
Manning  Jr.,  Rear  492  Bayard  St., 
South  Williamsporl,  machine  tool 
technology;  Todd  A.  Laudenslager,  612 
Grace  St.,  Williamsport,  electrical 
technology;  Roger  M.  Williams,  1234 
Isabella  St.,  Williamsport,  architectural 
technology  and  Johanna  P.  Geiger, 
1306  Park  Ave.,  Williamsporl,  general 
studies. 

Susan  E.  Slamm,  722  Arch  St., 
Williamsporl,  general  studies;  Susan  A. 
Forsburg,  PO  Box  322,  Williamsport, 
dental  hygiene;  Michael  E.  Shemery, 
2416  West  Fourth  St.,  Williamsporl, 
machinist  general;  Paul  R.  Reese,  343 
Louisa  St.,  Williamsporl,  industrial 
drafting;  Anthony  C.  Miosi,  996  Valla- 
monl  Drive,  Williamsporl,  computer 
science  technology;  Terry  A. 
Hasselman,  209  Eldred  Si., 
Williamsporl,  radiologic  technology  and 
Paula  J.  Lupoid,  3583  West  Fourth  St., 
Williamsporl,  general  studies. 

Mark  R.  Slryker,  Rear  1128  West 
Fourth  St.,  Williamsporl,  electronics 
technology;  Kalhy  A.  Meixel,  842  High 
St.,  Williamsporl,  general  studies; 
Michael  K.  Seebold,  1120  West  Third 
St.,  Williamsport,  general  studies; 
Timothy  D.  Butt,  222  Arlington  St., 
Duboislown,  machine  tool  technology; 
Shari  L.  Ulsamer,  808  Diamond  St., 
Williamsport,  accounting;  Robert  S. 
Gehrig,  504  VallamonI  Drive, 
Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology  and  Patricia  L.  Quinn,  2324 
West  Fourth  St.,  Williamsporl,  general 
studies. 

Michael  H.  Ryder,  1476  West 
Fourth  St.,  Williamsporl,  business 
management;  June  E.  Young,  R334 
East  Second  Ave,  South  Williamsporl, 
computer  science  technology;  Mark  L. 
Kauffman,  RD  4,  Box  559, 
Williamsporl,  machine  tool  technology; 
Patrick  Comitz,  PO  Box  4064, 
Williamsporl,  plumbing  and  heating; 


SPOTLIGHT!  I Mondiy,  Feb.  6,  I»84d9 

Elmer  D.  Laudenslager  IM,  717  Spruce 
St.,  Williamsport,  computer  science 
technology;  David  L.  Heilman,  2007 
Mill  Lane,  Williamsport,  accounting 
and  Teresa  J.  Welfiey,  1005  West 
Fourth  St.,  Williamsport,  computer 
science  technology. 

Eva  L.  Bower,  208  West  Seventh 
Ave.,  South  Williamsport,  food  and 
hospitality  management;  Renee  M.  Rell, 
RD  3,  Box  370  Williamsporl,  accoun- 
ting; Steven  A.  Keller,  2221  Wheatland 
Ave.,  Williamsport,  electronics 
technology;  Kelly  L.  Welch,  1317  Park 
Ave.,  Williamsport,  general  studies; 
Susan  L.  Hughes,  345  Park  Ave., 
Williamsport,  dental  hygiene;  Thomas 
A.  Marino,  1585  West  Southern  Ave., 
South  Williamsporl,  general  studies  and 
Richard  J.  Sholder,  934  Elizabeth  St., 
Williamsport,  computer  science 
technology. 

Amy  R.  Lamade,  1345  Penn-- 
sylvania  Ave.,  Williamsport,  food  and 
hospitality  management;  William  J. 
Hertzog,  311  Union  Ave., 
Williamsport,  electronics  technology; 
Karl  V.  Orwig,  RD  2,  Box  287, 
Williamsport,  electronics  technology; 
Robert  N.  Glossner,  810  Cemetery  St., 
Williamsport,  radiologic  technology; 
Suzann  L.  Bennett,  259  Edgewood 
Ave.,  Dubiostown,  food  and  hospitality 
management  and  Karen  A.  Muskelnuss, 
924  Park  Ave.,  Williamsporl, 
floriculture.  ,       _ 

Karia  J.  Kisner,  332  Furey  St., 
South  Williamsport,  accounting;  Dixie 
G.  Laudenslager,  617  Fifth  Ave., 
WiUiamsport,  food  and  hospitality 
management;  Robert  W,  Shick,  1716 
Clarion  Drive,  Williamsport,  welding; 
Jill  E.  Dykens,  1321  High  St., 
Williamsport,  accounting;  Sharon  A. 
Andrus,  1849  Maeshall  Ave., 
Williamsporl,  general  studies;  Nancy  G. 
Moore,  2303  Fox  St.,  Williamsport, 
computer  science  technology  and  ^ 
Michele  R.  Miele,  220  Selkirk, 
Williamsporl,  dietetic  technician. 

Jeffrey  K.  Bedford,  322  Campbell 
St.,  Williamsporl,  general  studies; 
.Robert  F.  Davis,  1102  West  Central 
Ave,  South  Williamsporl.  welding; 
Nancy  L.  Conroy,  1340  Rilchey  St., 
Williamsport,  food  and  hospitality 
managemcnl;  Lynda  R.  Green,  RD  4, 
Box  160,  Williamsporl,  individual 
studies;  Gerald  E.  Haas.  RD  3,  Box 
210,  Williamsporl.  computer  science 
technology;  Bonnie  L.  Grimes,  340 
Federal  Ave.,  Williamsport,  accounting 
and  Rose-Marie  A.  Ziegmann,  2227 
Riverside  Drive,  South  Williamsport, 
general  studies. 

Cindy  L.  Lanzer,  760  Brandon 
Ave.,  Williamsport,  dental  hygiene; 
Kenneth  L.  Shafer,  1127  Baldwin  St., 
Williamsporl,  plumbing  and  healing; 
Alice  M.  While,  2236  Lincoln  St., 
Williamsport,  general  studies;  Jeffrey  L. 
Snook,  2022  West  Third  St., 
Williamsport,  machinist  general;  Troy 
M.  Anderson,  1131  Isabella  St., 
Williamsporl,  tool  design  technology; 
Robert  L.  Hamaker,  612  West  Edwin 
St.,  Williamsporl,  engineering  drafting 
■■■  PJease  liirn  In  Page  W 


lOnSPOTLIGHTDMoodjy.  Feb.  6.  1984 


Dean 's  List 


■■■  Continued  from  Page  9 
technology  and  Cynlhia  M.  Perry,  1501 
Memorial  Ave.,  Williamsporl,  broad- 
casting. 

John  A.  Casale,  1048  Park  Ave., 
Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology;  Gary  T.  Pandoif,  405 
Howard  St.,  Williamsporl,  plumbing 
and  heating;  John  M.  Bemcr,  671 
Campbell  St.,  Williamsporl,  general 
studies;  Lynn  M.  Fox,  319  Winter  St., 
South  Williamsporl,  word  processing; 
Thomas  E.  Kirol,  656  Green  St., 
Williamsporl,  individual  sludics; 
Thomas  J.  Waldman,  220  Easl  Cenlral 
Ave.,  South  Williamsporl,  machinisi 
general;  Timothy  S.  Sleek,  2312  Blair 
ISl.,  Williamsporl,  business  manage- 
ment; Sandra  F.  Murray,  1557  West 
Isoulhern  Ave.,  South  Williamsporl, 
tompuler  science  technology;  John  E. 
iBrenza,  938  High  St.,  Williamsporl, 
computer  science  technology  and  Dar- 
ren A.  Schweikarl,  1849  Merrill  Ave., 
Williamsporl,  electrical  occupations. 

Kathryn  L.  Orso,  335  Lyon  Ave., 
Williamsporl,  food  and  hospitality 
management;  Jill  R.  Hampton,  1656 
Andrews  Place,  Williamsporl,  general 
studies;  Patricia  A.  Little,  RD  5,  Box  1, 
Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology;  David  K.  Mills,  954 
Cemetery  St.,  Williamsporl,  plumbing 
and  healing;  Lora  J.  Rosengranl,  843 
Center  St.,  Williamsporl,  business 
management;  James  E.  Moore,  2303 
Fox  St.,  Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology;  Timothy  J.  Mullen,  628'/; 
Walnut  St.,  Williamsporl,  tool  design 
technology  and  Randy  E.  Kuzio,  1735 
Green  Ave.,  Williamsporl,  civil 
engineering  technology. 

Jeffrey  S.  Flick,  14  Oldl  Drive, 
Williamsporl,  welding;  Marsha  A. 
Davis,  1015  West  Fourth  St., 
Williamsporl,  accounting;  Daniel  A. 
Radke,  RD  1,  Box  390,  Williamsporl, 
general  studies;  Suzanne  K.  Siller,  RD 
|4,  Box  305,  Williamsporl,  accounting; 
iMichael  J.  Lins,  229  Spring  St., 
Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology;  James  A.  Chapman  Jr.,  RD 
2,  Box  248,  Williamsporl,  forest 
technology;  Kenneth  D.  Carson,  1235 
lAnne  St.,  Williamsporl,  plumbing  and 
heating;  David  P.  Hornberger,  631  W. 
Third  St.,  Williamsporl,  construction 
carpentry;  Randy  B.  Metzger,  1237 
Anne  St.,  Williamsporl,  plumbing  and 
iheating;  Susan  L.  Poust,  305  Winthrop 
St.,  South  Williamsporl,  word  process- 
iing;  Patrick  D.  Spinelli,  665'/)  Rose  St., 
Williamsporl,  computer  science 
technology  and  Patricia  A.  Zaccaria, 
1024  Elmira  St.,  Williamsporl,  food 
and  hospitality  management. 

Steven  R.  Baney,  1430  West 
Southern  Ave.,  South  Williamsporl,  in- 
dividual studies;  Ronald  J.  Wright,  RD 
1,  Box  91,  Linden,  broadcasting; 
Donald  W.  Cohick,  RD  3,  Box  319, 
Cogan  Station,  loM  design  technology; 
Alfred  Tice,  RD  2,  Cogan  Station, 
diesel  mechanics;  James  A.  Tressler, 
RD  2,  Box  437,  Cogan  Station,  auto 
body  repair;  Willard  B.  Brown,  RD  2, 
Box  298A,  Cogan  Station,  computer 
science  technology;  Richard  A.  Mor- 


rison, RD  3,  Box  28,  Hughesville,  com- 
puter science  technology;  Daniel  P. 
Bair,  RD  2,  Box  150,  Hughesville,  con- 
struction carpentry;  Donald  J.  Waltman, 
RD  2.  Hughesville,  general  studies, 
and  Frances  L.  McConnell,  50  South 
Fifth  St.,  Hughesville,  dietetic  techni- 
cian. 

William  P.  Kilcoyne  Jr.,  325  West 
Walnut  St.,  Hughesville,  diesel 
mechanics;  Mary  L.  Koch,  RD  2,  Box 
20A,  Hughesville,  dietetic  technician; 
Brandon  E.  Trowbridge,  123'/2  Calvert 
St.,  Jersey  Shore,  computer  science 
technology;  Corinne  A.  Hilbish,  RD  4, 
Box  48,  Jersey  Shore,  respiratory 
therapy  technician;  John  L.  Carson,  RD 
3,  Box  276,  Jersey  Shore,  auto  body 
repair;  Jeffrey  R.  Bardo,  RD  3,  Box 
189,  Jersey  Shore,  business  manage- 
ment; Christopher  J.  Mitchell,  RD  4, 
Box  146,  Jersey  Shore,  individual 
studies;  Steven  K.  McCoy,  RD  2,  Box 
769,  Jersey  Shore,  general  studies; 
Richard  K.  Hendricks  Jr.,  220  Glover 
St.,  Jersey  Shore,  machine  tool 
technology  and  Joan  L.  Thompson,  RD 

1,  Box  123,  Jersey  Shore,  journalism. 

Michael  J.  Dougherty.  RD  I,  Box 
272B,  Jersey  Shore,  accounting;  Leslie 
K.  McConnell,  800  Allegheny  St., 
Jersey  Shore,  business  management; 
Theresa  A.  Confer,  517  Allegheny  St., 
Jersey  Shore,  secretarial  science;  Donna 
R.  Naugle,  RD  2,  Box  529AA,  Jersey 
Shore,  accounting;  Vincent  M.  Stone, 
RD  3,  Box  132A6,  Jersey  Shore,  com- 
puter science  technology;  Christine  D. 
Dyroff,  1503  Allegheny  St.,  Jersey 
Shore,  business  management;  Carlene 
K.  Gaither,  Box  718,  RD  2,  Jersey 
Shore,  relail  management;  Amelia  C. 
Schwanke,  RD  2,  Box  505,  Jersey 
Shore,  accotmling;  Charles  E.  Deitrick, 
RD  2,  Jersey  Shore,  computer  science 
technology  and  Anne  L.  Lehman,  RD 

2,  Box  841,  Jersey  Shore,  accounting. 

Dwane  A.  Kline,  116  Glover  St., 
Jersey  Shore,  computer  science 
technology;  Ellen  K.  Thompson,  RD  2, 
Jersey  Shore,  radiologic  technology; 
Timothy  A.  Untz,  RD  1,  Box  186, 
Linden,  machine  tool  technology;  Linda 
A.  Tawney,  RD  I.  Box  390,  Linden, 
computer  science  technology;  Renee  A. 
Fazler,  RD  I,  Box  161,  Linden,  accoun- 
ting; Robert  L.  Young,  Linden,  plumb- 
ing and  heating;  John  P.  Raudenbush, 
Box  40,  Harvest  Moon,  Linden,  elec- 
tronics technolgoy;  Thomas  E.  Worth, 
RD  1,  Box  412,  Linden,  advertising  art; 
William  R.  Laforge,  PO  Box  201,  Mon- 
tgomery, service  and  operation  of  heavy 
construction  equipment;  Steven  G. 
Gross,  40  Melvina  St.,  Montgomery, 
service  and  operation  of  heavy  construc- 
tion equipment;  Paul  H.  Pauling,  RD  1, 
Box  369A,  Montgomery,  accouting  and 
Karen  R.  Crawford,  RD  1,  Box  221P. 
Montgomery,  accounting. 

Tammy  S.  Winder,  RD  1,  Mon- 
tgomery, computer  science  technology; 
David  L.  Turney,  RD  2,  Box  A 1 3, 
Montgomery,  machine  tool  technology; 
Larry  Kratzer,  PO  Box  25,  Mon- 
tgomery, civil  engineering  technology; 
Kevin  P.  Fenstermacher,  Montgomery 


RD  2,  civil  engineering  lechnology;Con- 
nie  Miller,  RD  4,  Box  8,  Montoursville, 
accounting;  Angela  A.  Andrews,  300 
North  Brojd^St.,^onioursvi[le,jeneral 
studies;  Molly  K.  Kelly,  328  Montour 
Si.,  Montoursville,  general  studies; 
Frank  E.  Franek,  636  Loyalsock  Ave.. 
Montoursville,  electronics  technology; 
Francis  C.  Burchanowski,  1220 
Mulberry  St.,  Montoursville,  electronics 
technology;  Michael  S.  Ellis,  1201  Ar- 
thur Road,  Montoursville,  general 
studies  and  Michael  R.  Baker,  1218 
Cedar  St.,  Montoursville,  consliuction 
carpentry.     

Lin^  C.  Holmes,  516  Washington 
St.,  Montoursville,  radiologic 
technology;  Jeanella  A.  Kline,  RD  2, 
Montoursville,  floriculture;  Gregory 
Kocher,  RD  2,  Box  59E,  Montoursville, 
individual  studies;  Donna  P.  Maxwell, 
RD  1,  Box  234A,  Montoursville,  com- 
puter science  technology;  Marjorie  E. 
Dunlop,  611  Bennett  St.,  Mon- 
toursville, general  studies;  Robert  A. 
Bamonle,  933  Cherry  St.,  Mon- 
toursville, construction  carpentry;  Ross 
0.  Bigelow,  RD  1,  Box  294A,  Mon- 
toursville, architectural  technology  and 
Richard  T.  Wolfgang,  520  Bennett  St., 
Montoursville,  plumbing  and  heating. 

Ellen  M.  Sullivan,  161  Confair 
Parkway.  Montoursville.  general 
studies;  Martin  D.  Case,  RD  4,  Box 
294,  Montoursville,  computer  science 
technology;  Allyson  C.  Burger,  700 
Broad  St..  Montoursville,  general 
studies;  Kurt  A.  Weslbrook,  517  Arch 
St.,  Montoursville,  electronics 
technology;  Gregory  W.  Eckenrode, 
1105  Mulberry  St.,  Montoursville, 
welding;  Patricia  M.  Schick,  RD  3,  Box 
10,  Montoursville,  dietetic  technician; 
Jodi  K.  Horn,  RD  4,  Box  257,  Mon- 
toursville, general  studies  and  Sharon 
A.  Souter,  RD  4,  Box  459.  Mon- 
toursville. individual  studies. 

Chrislia  L.  Keyte,  117  South 
Washington  St.,  Montoursville,  general 
studies;  Dale  1.  Myers,  RD  1,  Muncy, 
carpentry  and  building  construction 
technology;  Eric  K.  Bernd,  111  East 
Penn  St.,  Muncy,  computer  science 
technology;  Carol  A.  Hill,  RD  4,  Mun- 
cy, computer  science  technology;  Todd 
S.  Simpson,  RD  4,  Box  251,  Muncy, 
machine  tool  technology;  Michele  A. 
Vanbuskirk,  RD  4,  Box  223.  Muncy, 
computer  science  technology;  Todd  M. 
Arthur,  RD  4,  Box  248  Muncy, 
business  management  and  Diane  L. 
Winter,  RD  4,  Box  661,  Muncy,  com- 
puter science  technology. 

Carlos  J.  Mendoza,  RD  1,  Box  81, 
Muncy,  computer  science  technology; 
Kenneth  W.  Poust,  141  Laurel  St.,  Pic- 
ture Rocks,  construction  carpentry; 
Norine  A.  Richards,  Box  33,  Ralston, 
accounting;  Carl  D.  Ward,  HC64,  Box 
82,  Trout  Run,  construction  carpentry; 
Robert  G.  Weyant,  RD  1,  Box  93, 
Trout  Run,  construction  carpentry; 
LeAnn  M.  Livermore,  RD  1,  Box  97A, 
Trout  Run,  word  processing;  Kimberly 
A.  Coons,  Box  56A,  RD  I,  Trout  Run. 
computer  science  technology  and  Kevin 
E.  Freezer.  Star  Route.  Trout  Run,  auto 
body  repair. 

Chris  R.  Rounsville,  Box  11,  Antes 
Fort,  computer  science  technology; 
Kenneth   B.    Miller.    RD   4.   Box   8. 


Williamsporl,  carpentry  and  building 
construction  technology;  Kimberly  K. 
Houser,  Box  510,  Star  Route,  English 
Center,  unclassified  and  Dianne  J. 
Waldron,  RD  1,  Box  102 A,  Unityville. 
floriculture. 

MCKEAN  COUNTY 

Timothy  G.  Garity.  Kane  RD  2. 
construction  carpentry;  Mark  S.  Plalko. 
947  High  St.,  Bradford,  electronics 
technology;  Frank  V.  Esmond,  236 
Holman  St.,  Kane,  electrical  occupa- 
tions; Craig  S.  Bunker,  Kane  RD  1, 
plumbing  and  healing;  Glenn  G.  Rid- 
dell,  Bloomster  Hollow,  Smelhporl  RD 
1,  machine  tool  technology  and  Gary  V. 
Riddell,  Bloomster  Hollow,  Smelhporl 
RD  1,  machine  tool  technology. 
MERCER  COUNTY 

Jeffrey  L.  Stainbrook.  796  Latonka 
Drive,  Mercer,  carpentry  and  building 
construction  technology  and  Stephen  T. 
Collenette,  Box  27,  Forest  St.. 
Stoneboro,  construction  carpentry. 
MIFFLIN  COUNTY 

Thomas  J.  Dietrich,  RD  2.  Box  57, 
I  Belleville,  engineering  and  drafting; 
technology;  Shari  L.  Wagner,  R214 
North  Walnut  St..  L>ewistown.  com- 
puter science  technology;  Douglas  R. 
Henry.  RD  2.  Box  262  Lewislown,  ar- 
chitectural technology;  Mark  A.  James, 
R27  East  Chestnut  St.,  Lewislown, 
automotive  mechanics;  Carl  L.  Kohler, 
RD  6,  Box  441 -IB,  Lewislown,  con- 
struction carpentry;  Jonathon  G.  Hum- 
mel,, 247  East  Third  Si.,  Lewislown, 
automotive  technology;  Roger  L. 
Yoder,  RD  2,  Lewislown,  electronics 
technology;  Donald  L.  Krepps,  320 
.South  Brown  St.,  Lewislown, 
automotive  technology  and  Jeffrey  L. 
Bailey,  RD  1,  Box  3,  McVeylown, 
machinist  general. 

Brian  K.  MoisI,  RD  2,  Box  227A, 
McVeylon,  tool  design  technology; 
Melinda  K.  Stryker,  RD  2.  Box  8, 
McVeylon,  computer  science 
technology;  Vincent  H.  Anaslasi,  PO 
Box  171,  Milroy,  welding;  Gregory  K. 
Kibe,  231  South  Main  St.,  Milroy,  elec- 
trical occupations;  John  A.  Wendorf, 
RD  I,  Reedsville,  engineering  drafting 
technology  and  David  A.  Marks,  For- 
rest Hills,  Ewardtown  Road,  Yeager- 
town,  construction  carpentry. 

MONTGOMERY  COUNTY 

Nicola  P.  Ottaviano,  2515 
Chestnut  Ave.,  Ardmore,  construction 
carpentry;  Kurt  F.  Painter,  Cadmus 
Road,  RD  1,  Potlstown,  construction 
carpentry  and  William  T.  Bidden, 
Buckwalter  Road,  RD  1,  Potlstown, 
service  atnd  operation  of  heavy  construc- 
tion equipment. 

MONTOUR  COUNTY 

Gilbert  F.  Grimm,  6  South  Hun- 
tington St.,  Danville,  electronics 
technology;  Raymond  J.  Klinger,  RD  4, 
Box  331,  Danville,  plumbing  and 
heating  and  Edwin  H.  Harvey.  1802 
Bloom  Road.  Danville,  welding. 
MONROE  COUNTY 

Chris  A.  Kuhenbeaker. 
Kunkletown,  machinist  general. 

NORTHAMPTON  COUNTY 

Donald  E.  Jones,  53  North  Ninth 

St.,  Bangor,  machinisi  general;  Robert 

Ravitsky,    RD    3.    Bethlehem,    diesel 

mechanics;  Mark  J.  Zeleski,  2250  Eaton 

■■■  Please  turn  tu  Page  II 


Dean  ^s  List 


■■  Ciinlintieil  from  Page  10 
Ave.,  Bethlehem,  machine  lool 
icchnology;  Mallhcw  J.  Zcleski,  2250 
Ealon  Ave.,  Bethlehem,  machine  tool 
technology;  Christopher  M.  Firmstone, 
2  Redwood  Drive,  Northampton,  elec- 
trical technology  and  Kevin  R. 
Christman,  202  Main  St.,  Walnutport, 
machine  lool  technology. 
NORTHUMBERLAND  COUNTY 

Perry  D.  Pcntz,  PO  Box  188, 
Dewart,  journalism;  Karen  L.  Hans, 
Box  117,  King  St.,  Turbotville,  word 
processing;  Marsha  L.  Hetzendorf,  115 
Broadway,  Turbotville,  floriculture; 
James  K.  Wheaton,  RD  1,  Box  28,  Tur- 
botville, construction  carpentry; 
Richard  F.  Wright,  203  Delaware  Drive, 
Walsonlown,  machinist  general;  Millie 
A.  Boyer,  Box  413,  RD  2,  Watsontown, 
secretarial  science;  Georgina  C.  Lewis, 
RD  1,  Box  343A,  Watsontown,  word 
'  processing;  Todd  E.  Hauck,  RD  1,  Box 
158,  Walsonlown,  accounting  and  Carl 
W.  Vognet,  1001  Elm  St.,  Watsontown, 
retail  management. 

Bradley  S.  Michael,  106  Maple 
Lane,  Watsontown,  accounting;  Linda 
L.  Melzger,  RD  I,  Box  244,  Walson- 
lown, computer  science  technology; 
William  R.  Haines  Jr.,  RD  1,  Walson- 
lown, business  management;  Shawn  E. 
Gelnett,  117  Murray  St.,  Walsonlown, 
general  sludies;  Craig  S.  Schwab,  RD  1, 
Box  183,  Dornsifc,  machinisl  general; 
Sandra  J.  Erdman,  RD  1,  Box  157, 
Dornslfe,  accounting;  Crystal  A.  Hoff- 
man, RD  1,  Box  449,  Elysburg,  com- 
puter science  lechnology  and  Diane  M. 
Helfrick,  RD  1,  Box  224,  Elysburg, 
secretarial  science. 

Tammy  S.  Mailer,  RD  1,  Hern- 
don,  compuler  science  lechnology; 
Brian  J.  Mariano,  16  North  Eighth  St., 
Kulpmonl,  carpentry  and  building  con- 
struction technology;  Richard  J.  Greco. 
822  Spruce  St.,  Kulpmonl,  general 
sludies;  Jessica  L.  Blair,  Box  21,  Leek 
Kill,  compuler  science  lechnology; 
Richard  B.  Tareco,  123  Broadway, 
Millon,  diesel  mechanics;  Karen  Mann- 
ing, RD  1,  Box  21.  3-41,  Millon, 
:  secretarial  science;  Wayne  E.  Harner, 
576  Mahoning  St.,  Milton,  air  condi- 
tioning and  refrigeration;  Ronald  A. 
Frye,  370  Fairview  Ave.,  Milton,  com- 
puter science  lechnology  and  Jeffrey  W. 
Gifford,  RD  I,  Box  12,  Millon,  elec- 
tronics technologv. 

Michael  Wagner,  159  Washington 
St.,  Millon,  electronics  lechnology; 
Amanda  J.  Brown,  RD  3,  Box  20, 
Millon,  word  processing;  Richard  R. 
Follmer,  198  Wood  Si.,  Millon,  civil 
engineering  lechnology;  Richard  M. 
Bowersox,  PO  Box  355,  Millon,  ac- 
counting; David  P.  Rcichwcin,  134 
South  Grape  St..  Mount  Carmel.  elec- 
trical lechnology;  John  C.  Fornwalt, 
RD  I,  Box  256,  Oak  Park,  Nor- 
ihumberland,  air  conditioning  and 
refrigeration;  Christine  1.  Scholvin,  256 
Ninth  Si.,  Northumberland,  secretarial 
science;  Mark  A.  Leshock,  Box  101, 
RD  1,  Paxinos,  lool  design  lechnology; 
Timothy  D.  Snyder,  Box  27,  Rebuck, 
comDuler  science  lechnolnsv  Kenneili 
E.  Enlerline,  310  Ave.  E,  Riverside, 
construction  carpentry;  William  J. 
Rakoski,  2  Eagle  Ave.,  Shaniokin,  com- 


puter science  technology  and  Carl  F. 
Campbell,     509     South     Coal     Si., 
Shamokin,  automotive  mechanics. 
PERRY  COUNTY 

Timothy  S.  Zeiglcr.  Box  112C,  Rd 
I,  Liverpool,  machine  tool  lechnology. 
POTTER  COUNTY 

Alan  L.  Calcol'e.  PO  Box   132. 
Genesee,  compuler  science  lechnology. 
SCHUYLKILL  COUNTY 

Robert  J.  Goodman,  RD  2,  Box 
2123,  I^ollsville,  diesel  mechanics;  John 
F.  Cooper,  RD  3,  Dieners  Hills,  Poll- 
sville,  eleclrical  lechnology;  Roberl  A. 
Davis,  1710  Mahantongo  St.,  Pottsville, 
machine  tool  technology;  John  C. 
Brigade  Jr.,  638-Wesl  Bacon  St.,  Pott- 
sville, eleclrical  occupalions;  Rodney  S. 
Troulman,  RD  1,  Box  304,  Hegins, 
machinisl  general;  Nancy  A.  Shade,  307 
South  Goodspring  Road,  Hegins, 
agribusiness;  Barry  L.  Rulecky,  435 
Pine  Hill  St.,  Mincrsville,  conslruclion 
carpentry  and  John  A.  Strubhar  Jr., 
Route  2,  Box  71,  Pine  Grove,  diesel 
mechanics. 

Rodney  0.  Dreisbach,  RD  4,  Box 
332A,  Pine  Grove,  plumbing  and 
■heating;  Kevin  D.  Forry,  RD  1,  Box 
472,  Pine  Grove,  automotive 
mechanics;  Kevin  D.  Kreiser,  Rd  1,  Box 
309.  Pine  Grove,  conslruclion  carpen- 
try; William  L.  Guinn,  RD  1,  Box  94. 
Ringlown.  plumbing  and  healing;  Scoll 
L.  Deibcrl,  PO  Box  22,  Sacremenlo, 
carpentry  and  building  construction 
technology;  James  T.  Honicker,  200 
Norlh  Nicholas,  Saint  Clair,  welding 
and  Terry  D.  Schwalm,  1336  West 
Maple  Si.,  Valley  View,  machinisl 
general. 

Jeffrey  C.  Kline,  1335  West  Main 
St.,  Valley  View,  engineering  drafting 
lechnology;  Vincent  R.  Havriiko,  Six 
Sixlh  St.,  Kelayres,  diesel  mechanics; 
Thomas  M.  Waiko,  128  North 
Cleveland  St.,  McAdoo,  welding; 
Daniel  J.  Metzger  11,  West  Main  St., 
Box  12,  Quakake,  engineering  drafting 
lechnology;  John  C.  James,  RD  1,  Box 
1215,  Tamaqua,  engineering  drafting 
lechnology  and  Kori  M.  Jones,  44 
Cherry  St.,  Pine  Grove,  dielelic  techni- 
cian. 

SNYDER  COUNTY 

Warren  W,  Wert,  RD  2,  Box  48, 
Millcrsburg,  service  and  operation  of 
heavy  ccnslruction  equipment;  David 
W.  Rombcrger,  RD  I,  Box  198, 
Millcrsburg,  diesel  mechanics;  William 
B.  Hawk,  Box  108,  Beaver  Springs, 
nursery  management;  Dayna  L.  Geist, 
Thomas  St.,  Beaverlown,  secretarial 
science;  Steven  P.  Aungst,  PO  Box  42, 
Hummels  Wharf,  lool  design 
Icchnology;  Gene  A.  Kreamer,  PO  Box 
84,  Kreamer,  civil  engineering 
lechnology;  Ellen  L.  Auman,  PO  Box 
77.  McClure,  business  management  and 
Michael  Dreese,  RD  3,  Middle.burg, 
forest  lechnology. 

Mark  S.  Phillips,  Slar  Roule,  Box 
20,  Mounl  Pleasanl  Mills,  cpmouler 
science  lechnology;  Amy  T.  Ryan,  RD 
5,  Box  219,  Selinsgrove,  accounting; 
Jeffrey  D.  Girton,  K)  4,  Box  43,  Selin- 
.sgrove,  electronics  Icchnology;  Judy  D. 
Bowersox,  RD  3,  Box  126,  Selinsgrove, 
surgical  lechnology;  Donna  J.  Ralhfon, 
116  South  Market  Si.,  Selinsgrove, 
compuler  science  technology;  Louise  E. 
Rcichcnbach,  RD  1,  Box  188A,  Selin- 


sgrove, computer  operator  and  Scoll  E. 
Inch,  Box  180.  RD  5,  Selinsgrove, 
general  studies. 

SOMERSET  COUNTY 

Kalhy  Phillips,  Box  435,  RD  7, 
Somerset,  floriculiure;  David  P.  Bonus, 
272  Central  Ave.,  Central  Cily,  service 
and  operalion  of  heavy  conslruclion 
equipment;  Kenneth  D.  Kozak,  Box  22, 
Jerome,    civil   engineering   lechnology 
and    Timothy    L.    Bcabes,    RD    2, 
Somerset,  dairy  herd  management. 
SULLIVAN  COUNTY 
Timolhy  J.  Hayes,  PO  Box  33, 
Shunk,  machine  lool  lechnology. 
SUSQUEHANNA  COUNTY 
Christopher  T.  Herbert,  406  Elm 
St.,     Susquehanna,     plumbing    and 
healing. 

TIOGA  COUNTY 
Russell  D.  Bowen,  RD  3,  PO  Box 
385,  Wellsboro,  argibusiness;  Michael 
L.  Getgcn,  RD  2,  Box  48,  Wellsboro, 
eleclrical  occupations;  Lori  A.  Mengee, 
RD  6,  Box  128,  Wellsboro,  compuler 
science  lechnology;  Kim  R.  Davis,  24 
Lincoln  St.,  VVellsboro,  radiologic 
lechnology;  Harland  E.  Warriner,  RD 
6,, Box  91,  Wellsboro,  plumbing  and 
heating;  Kenneth  D.  Shorl,  RD  1,  Box 
268,  Blossburg,  electronics  lechnology 
Ted  W.  Kelchncr,  Box  109,  Covington, 
eleclrical  Icchnology;  Roberl  L.  Cran- 
dall,  101  Elphis  Si.,  Elkland,  conslruc- 
lion carpentry  and  Scoll  W.  Colegrove, 
111  Sheldonia  St.,  Elkland,  civil 
engineering  lechnology. 

Craig  J.  Tronconc,  RD  I,  Box  86, 
Lawcenceville,  carpentry  and  building 
conslruclion  carpentry  lechnology; 
Sheryl  L.  Wilkins,  RD  1.  Box  142, 
Lawrenceville,  secrelarial  science. 

Myra  K.  Sindlinger,  RD  1 
Box  69,  Liberly,  business 
management;  Timolhy  L.  Repard,  RD 
1,  Box  159,  Liberly,  diesel  mechanics; 
Paul  D.  Zeafla,  RD  1,  Box  173,  Liber- 
ly, diesel  mechanics;  James  A.  KenI, 
RD  3,  Box  860,  Mansfield,  lool  design 
lechnology;  Kevin  E.  Crumb,  RD  1, 
Box  58,  Mansfield,  plumbing  and 
healing;  Kelly  S.  Harris,  RD  2,  Box 
125,  Millcrlown,  secrelarial  science; 
Ronald  W.  Hanes,  RD  I,  Box  625, 
Sabinsvillc,  electrical  icchnology  and 
John  D.  Boyce,  RD  I,  Roaring  Branch, 
compuler  science  lechnology. 
NORTH  CAMPUS 
Joan  A.  Banks,  RD  6,  Box  68, 
Wellsboro,  compuler  science 
lechnology;  Mark  A.  Boyce,  57  Easl 
Ave.,  Wellsboro,  compuler  science 
technology;  Donald  H.  Bowers,  RD  4, 
Box  3,  Wellsboro,  computer  science 
technology;  Brenda  S.  Decker,  RD  2 
Box  47,  Columbia  Cross  Roads, 
secretarial  science;  Candace  D. 
Worden,  RD  I,  Box  243,  Covington, 
computer  science  lechnology;  Lori  A. 
Webster,  RD  2,  Box  102C,  Middlebury 
Center,  secrelaridi  science;  Ramona  L. 
Longabauch,  RD  I,  Morris,  compuler 
science  lechnology  and  Kevin  E. 
Wallers,  RD  I,  Osceola,  computer 
sciene  lechnology. 

UNION  COUNTY 
Roberl  W.  Persun,  RD  1,  Box 
247A,  Allenwood,  electrical  occupa- 
tions; Darlene  M.  Shadday,  RD  I,  Box 
296A,  Allenwood,  business  manage- 
ment; Joseph  B.  Bower  Jr.,  RD  1,  Box 
303,  Allenwood,  accounting;  Lisa  A. 
Hill,  RD  1,  Box  152,  Allenwood,  com- 


SPOTLIGHTnMonday.  Feb.  6.  I984ull 

puler  science  lechnology;  Gregory  E. 
Planz.  Box  84.  Laurellon,  plumbing 
and  healing;  Annette  Y.  Smith,  235  St. 
Lawrence  St..  Lewisburg,  business 
management;  Dale  L.  Harpsler,  1224A 
West  Market  St.,  Lewisburg,  general  ' 
sludies;  Steven  L.  Boyer,  6  Brown  St.. 
Lewisburg.  automotive  mechanics; 
Timothy  J.  McGovcrn,  Twin  Oaks, 
Buffalo  Road,  Lewisburg,  plumbing  and 
healing  and  Terry  A.  Dieffenderfer,  RD 
2,  Box  462,  Lewisburg,  floriculture. 

Leslie  N.  Cole,  190  Smokelown 
Road,  Lewisburg,  nursery  management; 
Ralph  R.  Shrawder,  RD  2,  Box  110, 
Mifflinburg,  service  and  operation  of 
heavy  conslruclion  equipment;  Richard 
J.  Maher,  810  Chestnut  St.,  Mifflin- 
burg, computer  science  technology; 
Michael  E.  Shaffer,  350  Thompson  St., 
Mifflinburg,  computer  science 
technology;  Roberl  L.  Seebold,  RD  I, 
New  Columbia,  compuler  science 
lechnology;  Bruce  D.  Bolich,  416  High 
Si.,  Wesl  Millon,  compuler  science 
lechnology;  Ardilh  E.  Wilkins,  Box  31, 
While  Deer,  accounting  and  Jody  R. 
Johnson,  RD  I,  Box  112,  Winfield, 
computer  science  lechnology. 

WESTMORELAND  COUNTY 

Thomas  S.  Aversa,  2708  Paige  St., 
Lower  Burrell,  carpentry  and  building 
construction  lechnology;  Tim  A.  Key, 
2742  Edilh  St.,  Lower  Burrell, 
machinisl  general;  Scoll  S.  Seilz  Mayor 
Drive,  Muttysville,  construction  carpen- 
try and  Gregory  J.  Glassner,  Box  294, 
Chestnut  St.,  I^ew  Florence,  plumbing 
and  healing. 

YORK  COUNTY 

Fred  E.  Murray,  197  Mountain 
Road,  Dillsburg,  automotive 
lechnology;  Andrew  A.  Bealing,  RD  2, 
Box  248,  Hanover,  lool  design 
lechnology,  Anthony  S.  Gobrechl,  RD 
7,  Box  262,  Grandview  Road,  Hanover, 
graphic  arts;  Frank  A.  Sands,  2253 
Carlisle  Road,  York,  graphic  arts  and 
Mark  H.  Greenawall,  2510  Midpine 
Drive,  York,  machine  lool  lechnology. 
VENAGO  COUNTY 

Terry  W.  Miller,  Box  313,  Polk, 
welding. 

WAYNE  COUNTY 

James  Pillar,  Star  Route  2,  Box 
42Z,    Hawley,   automotive   mechanics 
and  John   H.  Vandelinde,  Box   154, 
Milanville,  conslruclion  carpentry. 
WYOMING  COUNTY 

Steven  B.  Kaminslein,  Box  85, 
Noxen,  aulo  body  repair  and  Bradley  I. 
Alden,  RD  6,  Tunkhannock,  avialion 
lechnology. 

OUT-OF-STATE 

John  V.  Bednarz,  16  Smith  St., 
Adams,  Mass.,  plumbing  and  healing; 
Douglas  S.  Miller,  389  Fairview  Ave., 
Long  Valley,  N.J.,  automotive 
lechnology;  Chrislos  Z.  Raplis,  324 
Kenmore  St.,  Warren,  Ohio,  construc- 
tion carpentry;  Lance  R.  Yonge,  131 
Cornwell  St.,  Penn  Van,  N.Y.,  service 
and  operation  of  heavy  construction 
equipment;  Penny  L.  Slater,  Box  9, 
Ceres,  N.Y.,  computer  science 
lechnology;  Joseph  Delily,  17  Elizabeth 
St.,  Ellicoltville,  N.Y.,  diesel  mechanics 
and  Thomas  M.  Corcoran,  236 
Medowlark,  Horseheads,  N.Y.  service 
and  operalion  of  heavy  construction 
equipment. 


12l  ISPOTUCHT    Monday,  reb.  6.  I»M 


Resume  writing,  interview  skills  topics  of  workshops  starting  today 


The  Counseling,  Careecr  Develop- 
menl.  and  Plaeemenl  Ofliee  is  sponsor- 
ing workshops  in  resume  writing  and  in 
'  Icrview  sl(ills,  according  lo  Thomas  M. 
McNally,  a  counselor  in  ihe  office. 

McNally  poinied  oul  thai  the 
workshops  should  interest  lho.sc 
students  who  are  about  lo  enter  the  job 
market. 

Counselors  for  the  sessions  in  addi- 
tion to  McNally  arc  Thomas  C.  Shoff, 
Weldon  W.  Michael,  and  Ms.  Kathryn 
A.  Kerrence,  all  with  the  College 
counseling  office.  They  will  be  under 
the  guidance  of  Lawrcjtce  W.  Emery 


Jr.,  direclor  ol  counseling,  career 
development,  and  plaeemenl. 

The  resume  writing  workshops  will 
begin  at  noon  Kxlay  (Feb.  6)  in  Room 
205A,  Learning  Resources  Center 
(LRC). 

Other  sessions  will  be  at  noon 
lomorrow  (Feb.  7),  in  Room  149, 
Automotive  Trades  Cenler  (ATC);  at  3 
p.m.,  Wednesday  (Feb.  8).  in  Room 
148,  ATC;  al  I  p.m.,  next  Wendesday, 
Feb.  15,  in  Room  205A,  Learning 
Resources  Center:  at  9  a.m.,  Tuesday, 
Feb.  21,  in  Room  148,  ATC,  and  al  II 
a.m.,  Thursday,  Feb.  23,  in  Room  149, 


Job  Opportunities 


Informalim  furnislwd  hv  ilie  Ctillege  I'lamiieiii  Office  and  prnenied  verhaiuii. 
AMERICAN  BRKKDF.R-S  SERVICE 

American  Breeders  Service,  Rl)  I,  Bo\  .146E,  New  Columbia,  Pa.  17856.  Is 
interested  in  empinying  an  ABS  representative  in  Central  PA.  Musi  have  leader- 
ship ability,  aggressiveness,  some  knowledge  of  cattle  and  Ihe  ability  lit  manage  as 
well  as  a  sincere  desire  lo  he  <if  service  In  Ihe  catlle  breeding  industry  and 
agriculture  in  general.  If  interested,  call  Willlan),C.  Gllrk,  dlstricl  sales  manager, 
al  (717)  S68-9722  for  a  personal  interview  or  further  information. 
BABYSITTER 

Babysiller  needed  from  2  to  10  p.m.  on  Monday,  Tuesday,  and  Wednesday 
for  four  children  aged  15,  13,  II,  and  3.  $25.  Eor  more  informalliin  inquire  at 
the  Placement  Office  in  Ihe  Learning  Resiiurees  Center. 

SlIMMER/KEDERAL  GOVERNMENT 

Summer  employment  with  Ihe  federal  government.  Information  is  available 
in  Ihe  Plaeemenl  Office  for  clerical  jobs  In  Pennsylvania  and  Washington  D.C.; 
physical  science  aide/biological  aide,  engineering  aide/survey  aide,  park  aide, 
managemeni  assislanl,  cnmpuler  clerk,  correctional  assLslanl,  life  guard,  museum 
aide  In  Pennsylvania  and  Washington;  laborer,  custodial  worker,  gardener, 
painter  helper,  painting  worker,  carpenter  in  Pennsylvania.  Also,  Informallim 
about  employment  for  needy  youth  can  he  obtained  al  Ihe  local  Stale  Emphiy- 
menl  Service  Office. 


PERFORMING  al  Ihe  Coffeehouse  Jan.  26  was  Ihe  contemporary  Christian 
music  group,  "New  Jerusalem".  The  group  consists  of  Randy  Allison,  Ellen 
Aucher,  Bob  Aucher,  and  Carol  KIrol.  Formed  about  one  year  ago,  Ihe  group 
plans  lo  continue  performing  al  local  churches  and  will  appear  al  Ihe  Lock  Haven 
University  in  the  spring.  Robin  Coran  and  Danny  Baker  also  perform  wilh  Ihem 
as  a  duet  ad.    (SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  hv  Man  L.  Pease) 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  SI.,  Williamsporl 
IHui  lo  Academic  Cenierl 
PHONE  AHEAD:    322-1321 


HOURS:     1-30  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


ATC. 

The  workshops  on  interviewing  will 
begin  wilh  one  ai  the  Earth  Science 
Campus  at  1  p.m.,  next  Mond<iy,  Feb. 
13. 

Another  will  be  held  al  3:30  p.m. 
that  day  in  Room  205A  of  the  Learning 
Resources  Center. 

Other  sessions  will  be  at  2:30  p.m., 
Tuesday,  Feb.  14,  at  the  Earlh  Science 
Campus,  and  also  al  10  a.m.,  Tuesday, 
Feb.  14,  in  Room  205A,  LRC. 

On  Wednesday  and  Thursday, 
Feb.  15  and  16,  sessions  will  be  held  al 
10  a.m.  in  Room  105,  Building  Trades 


Center. 

Students  who  wani  to  attend  the 
sessions  at  the  Earlh  Science  Campus 
should  sec  Glenn  R,  Spoerke.  acting 
director  of  the  Earlh  Science  Division, 
to  sign  up.  McNally  said. 

Students  will  be  assigned  room 
numbers  for  the  workshops  al  the  Earlh 
Science  Campus,  he  noted. 

McNally  said  students  inlcrcstcd  in 
allcnding  any  of  ihc  .sessions  may  con- 
tact the  counseling  office.  Room  157, 
Learning  Resources  Center,  or  call  Col- 
lege Ext.  246  or  247. 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

For  week  of  Monday.  Fei.  6  through  Sunday,  Feb.  12 

MEETINGS 

Ski  Club...  4  to  5  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  325,  Academic  Cenler. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  lo  10  p.m.,  Ihis  Tuesday,  Room  6,  Academic 
Center. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda...  II  a.m.  lo  12  p.m.,  Ihis  Thursday,  Room  204,  Academic 
Center. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau...  4lo  5  p.m.,  ihis  Thursday,  Room  218,  Administration 
Building. 

MOVIE 
Gandhi...  7:30  p.m.,  tonight,  ACC  Auditorium.  Admission,  $1  with  validated 
student  ID,  $1  for  senior  citizens  and  children  under  12,  and  $2  for  all  others. 
ACTIVITIES 

Skiing  al  Oregon  Hill...  This  Wednesday.   Bus  leaves  LRC  at  5:30  p.m.  and 
returns  at  10  p.m.    Musi  sign  up  in  IM  office,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 

Biology  Club  Field  Trip...  This  Saturday.  No  fee  for  College  students.  $4  foi 
public.    This  will  cover  cost  lo  the  Baltimore  Aquarium. 


service 

(•y  BEVERAGE  CO 


419-421  Fifth  Ave.  *  Williamsporl,  Pa.  *  717/323-3237 


IcSPOTUGirraMoiiday,  Feb.  13,  I9M 

Music  videos:  Are 

tliey  rocl<ing  or 
rotting  tiie  nation? 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Music  videos  are  said  lo  be  "rock- 
ing" Ihe  nalion,  but  perhaps  Ihey  are 
actually  "rolling"  il 

When  rock  'n'  roll  firsi  gol  under- 
way, many  people  believe  il  was  relay- 
ing an  evil,  corruptive  message 
through  its  lyrics 

But  today,  it  doesn't  take  much  to 
watch  and  listen  lo  a  music  video  on 
TV  Several  o(  these  music  videos 
may  inlluence  a  viewer  with  tenden- 
cies toward  violence  The  Undercover 
of  Ihe  Nighl  video  by  the  Rolling  Slones 
is  a  lowly  disgusting  taping  o(  sheer 
violence 

These  types  o)  music  videos  are 
linking  music  with  violence  and  should 
be  labeled  unlit  lor  ths  lyoulh  ol  our 
society 

It  you  are  looking  tor  enlertairv 
moni  through  miisic  videos,  there  Is 
some  few  and  far  between.  One  well- 
known  star  and  music  video  performer 
may  Intrigue  you  lo  turning  on  Ihe 
video  rock  scene:  Michael  Jackson, 
'cause  he's  a  Thriller] 

Black  Christmas  full 
of  suspense,  gore 

book  review  by  Anne  T.  Moretelll 

I  stumbled  across  the  novel  Black 
Christmas  by  Thomas  Allman  purely 
by  accident.  A  friend  of  mine  had  just 
purchased  a  copy  and  as  I  waited  lot 
her  to  return  from  class,  f  began 
reading  It 

The  moment  I  began  to  read  the 
tlfsl  chapter,  I  became  a  prisoner  in  the 
arm  chair.  The  spine-chilling  novel  left 
me  anxiously  awaitng  the  turn  ol  each 
page 

The  book  opens  with  a  deadly 
land  cold  setting.  A  girl  Is  walking  in  an 
Icy  park  right  before  nightfall  She  is 
unaware  she  Is  being  pursued  by  a 
^demented  psychopath  carrying  a  shiny 
axe 

The  story  evolves  around  a  small 
town  sheriff  investigating  the  brutal  kill- 
,ing  ol  all  the  lovely,  young  women  in 
the  town.  The  women  are  a  part  of  the 
sheriffs  life  in  some  way.  The  sheriff 
cannot  find  a  motive  for  the  killings 

All  through  the  book,  Ihe  reader  is 
kept  at  the  edge  of  the  seat.  The  book 
is  a  good  thriller  and  if  you  have  a  tree 
afternoon  or  evening,  it's  worth  the 
time  lo  read  ill 


College  expansion,  both 
physically  and  academically, 
improves  collegiate  outlook 

„,in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

When  people  think  about  the  Williamspori  Area  Communily  College  Ihey 
think  of  a  trade  school  rather  than  an  academic  college  With  the  expansion  of 
the  College,  both  physically  and  academically,  the  College  has  developed  a  col- 
legiate atmosphere  similar  to  universities,  changed  its  College  image,  and  gives 
hands-on  experience  lo  students 

The  physical  expansion  of  the  College  can  be  seen  through  the  building  ol 
Ihe  Lifelong  Education  Center  The  Center  is  being  constructed  to  replace  some 
facilities  in  the  Administration  Building  The  Adminislralion  Building  tentatively  is 
scheduled  lo  be  lorn  down  within  Ihe  next  couple  of  years 

The  Center  will  have  a  cafeteria,  science  labs,  conference  rooms,  Ihe  presi- 
dent's office,  drafting  rooms,  and  other  areas 

Another  building  ol  the  future  is  the  high  technology  building  lo  be  built 
across  Irom  Ihe  Parkes  Automotive  Trade  Center  This  high  technology  building 
will  feature  new  electrical  and  electronics  devices  using  lasers  and  many  more 
devices 

These  buildings  will  give  the  College  an  appearance  ol  a  university  with 
buildings  spread  all  over  campus 

The  academic  expansion  of  Ihe  College  can  be  seen  through  recently 
developed  curriculums.  One  ol  Ihe  curriculums  is  the  word  processing  program 
The  program  will  help  change  the  College's  image  as  a  trade  school.  Word  pro- 
cessing is  one  of  Ihe  most  up  and  coming  fields  which  have  job  openings 

The  word  processing  program  now  includes  1 8  word  processing  machines 
lo  give  hands-on  experience  to  students  The  program  is  also  designed  to  help 
Ihe  unemployed  relearn  skills  or  lo  leach  a  new  skills  Since  this  College  is  one  ol 
the  few  to  help  the  unemployed,  the  College  continues  to  serve  the  communily  as 
a  whole. 

Hands-on  experience  is  an  important  part  of  the  College  since  it  teaches 
students  about  certain  aspects  of  Iheir  career  before  going  to  a  job  The  hands- 
on  experience  is  available  to  students  in  many  programs  day-in  and  day-oul. 

Employers  are  looking  for  persons  with  experience  and  what  a  better  way  ol 
getting  it  than  having  il  as  a  part  of  the  College  program! 

The  overall  atmosphere,  image,  and  physical  surroundings  of  the  College 
exemplifies  better  .standards  year  after  year. 


Letters... 


By  Murray  J.  Hanford,  staK  artist 


SPOTLIGHT 
Monday,  F.b.  6,  raB4    -    Vol.  19,  No.  21 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  publislied  each  Monday 
morning  ot  the  academic  yeai,  except  lor  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  jouinalism  and  other  in- 
terested students  ol  The  WiIliams()ort  Area  Com- 
munity College 

Otiice     Room  7,  Academic  Cenler.  1005 
W      Third    St,     Williamspoit,     Pa      17701 
Telephone,  (717)  326-3761,  Extension  221 

Opinions  expressed  are  those  ol  the  student 
newspaper  or  ol  those  whose  names  accom- 
pany items.  Opinions  do  not  reflect  ofttcial  opi- 
nion ol  Ihe  inslilution 


THE  STAFF 

Joan  L  Thompson,  Managing  Editor 

Perry  D   Pentz,  Edilofial  Page  Editor 

Thomas  F,  Montgomery.  Production  Su[>ervisor 

Mary  L  Pease.  Pnolography  Editor 

Annette  M   Enget.  Composition  Manager 

Thomas  H   Long,  Administrative  Affairs  Editor 

Kay  M   Frace.  Student  Affairs  Editor 

GIsela  0  Grassley.  Advertising  Manager 

Lori  M   l_ane.  Sports  Editor 

Barbi  L  Chitson.  Photo  Technician 

Gregory  W   Hutf,  Senior  Staff  Writer 

Murray  J   Hanlord,  Staff  Arfist 


REPORTERSfSTAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Richard  E  Kopp  Jr  ,  Donna  M  Barnett.  Mat- 
ey L  Card,  Kathleen  R  Foreman.  Kalhryn  M 
Gilbert,  Robert  O  Hawl^.  Shawn  W  Heverty. 
Rodney  D-  Hilt.  Lori  L  Holland,  Robert  W 
MiOier,  Kathy  A  Meixet.  Anne  T  Moratetti. 
James  K  Mornssey,  Mart^  S  Schwanke,  Sandra 
R   Taylor 

Faculty  adviser   Anthony  N  Cilio 

Production  Staff  This  Issue 

Kalhryn  M  Gilbert,  Richard  E  Kopp  Jr  , 
Robert  W   Minier.  and  Anne  T   Moratellie 


SS#S5¥*m!iS¥SSSSS5»-A5^^ 


To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

We  parents  are  very  disappointed 
With  the  College's  attitude  toward  Tot 
Watch  Tot  Watch  has  been  shoved 
around  the  past  two  years  because  it 
has  not  generated  enough  money  lor 
the  College  I  was  under  Ihe  impres- 
sion that  Tot  Watch  was  a  service  for 
the  students  and  not  a  business  We 
parents  have  had  lo  endure  rising  costs 
for  the  "service"  but  when  the  College 
took  away  our  room  and  put  us  in  a 
smaller  room,  we  knew  that  they  were 
trying  lo  force  us  out  of  the  College 
We  don't  believe  that  Tot  Watch  will 
exist  alter  this  semester  because  of 
these  facts  We  know  ol  students  thai 
reluse  to  bring  Iheir  children  because 
of  the  space,  because  they  don't  know 
anything  about  the  service, 

Mrs  Mary  Bardo  is  a  wonderful 
asset  to  this  College  and  to  the  children 
of  Tot  Watch,  Besides  being  a  nurse, 
she  is  a  teacher  for  our  children  She 
spends  time  teaching,  guiding  and 
helping  our  children  while  we  are  stu- 
dying and  attending  our  classes  Tot 
Watch  is  not  just  a  kidsitting  service 
like  a  neighbor  or  grandparent.  This  is 
our  children's  school! 

Having  our  children  attend  Tot 
Watch  is  not  cheap  by  any  means.  We 
pay  five  dollars  enrollment  fee  per 
semester  and  $1 ,25  per  hour  Ihe  child 
spends  in  the  service  We  are  also 
responsible  for  taking  our  child  out  ol 
the  room  for  lunch  We  as  parents  are 
willing  to  put  up  with  these  requests 
because  our  children  are  worth  it  and 
deserve  Tot  Walch  But  most  ol  all  our 
children  deserve  Ihe  right  lo  be  here  at 
Ihe  College  and  to  have  Mrs,  Bardo  as 
their  teacher. 

The  Parents  of  Tot  Watch 
Judy  Flory,  president 

Debate  kicks 
off  campaign 

By  Robert  W.  Minier 
Staff  Writer 

On  Jan  15, 1984,  eight  major  can- 
didates for  the  1984  Democratic 
presidential  nomination  met  face  to 
face  during  a  three-hour  "debate". 

The  debate  was  broadcast  live  on 
public  TV  Irom  Darimoulh  College  in 
Hanover,  N  H,  and  was  the  Itrsl  major 
presidential  debate  of  the  season 

Candidates  preseni  were  former 
vice  president  Waller  Mondale,  Sen 
John  Glenn  (Ohio),  lormer  Florida  Gov 
Rebin  Askew.  Sens  Alan  Cranston 
(Call! ),  Gary  Hart  (Colo  )  and  ErnesI 
Hoiltngs  (S  C );  the  Rev  Jesse 
Jackson,  and  lormer  Sen  George 
McGovern  (S  D  ) 

The  candidates  endured  an  hour- 
an-a-half  of  questioning  by  TV 
newsman  Ted  Koppel  and  90  minutes 
of  Phil  Donahue  directing  questions  at 
Ihem  from  the  audience 

Koppel  has  conlnil 

The  debate  was  sponsored  by  the 
House  Democratic  Caucus  and  Dart- 
mouth 

Unlike  previous  debates  in  which 
candidates  took  questions  from  a  panel 
of  experts,  this  debate  was  untrammell- 
ed Koppel,  the  ABC  coorespondeni 
who  IS  Ihe  host  of  the  "Nighiline" 
■■■  Please  Ifirn  lo  Page  10 


SPOTLlGHTDMondiy.  Feb.  13.  19MDJ 


SME  members  attend 
dinner,  technical  session 
tonight  at  the  Sheraton 


Associate  professor  utilizes 
'unique'  mode  of  transportation 


Members  of  the  Sludenl  Society  of 
Manufacturing  and  Engineering  Club 
(SME)  will  be  attending  a  dinner  and 
technical  session  this  evening  at  the 
Sheraton  Motor  Inn,  Williamsport,  ac- 
cording to  Chalmer  C.  Van  Horn,  club 
adviser. 

Dinner  will  be  served  at  6:30  p.m. 
Reservations  are  needed  to  attend  the 
dinner. 

The  technical  session  will  begin  at  8 
p.m.  and  anyone  is  welcome  to  attend 
the  session,  said  Van  Horn. 

"The  Use  of  Epoxics  and 
Urethanes"  will  be  the  topic  presented 
by  Theodore  Maker,  regional  sales 
manager,  Devcon  Corporation. 

The  Devcon  Corporation  is  a  large 

Horticulture  Club 
has  carnation  sale 

The  Horticulture  Club  will  have  a 
carnation  sale  today  and  tomorrow  in 
the  lobby  of  the  Academic  Center,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Frcmiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 

Carnations  will  be  sold  throughout 
the  day.  Prices  are  $1  for  one  stem, 
$2.50  for  three  stems,  and  $4.50  for  six 
stems. 


company  that  produces  many  different 
adhesive  products  for  use  in  manufac- 
turing and  maintenance  areas  for 
American  industry. 

SME  is  the  club  which  includes  tool 
design,  tool  technology,  machins 
general  students  as  well  as  engineering 
drafting  students. 

The  club  is  also  open  to  anyone  in- 
terested in  manufacturing  or  engineer- 
ing. 

Each  of  the  75  members  receive  a 
monthly  magazine  from  the  SME 
organization.  There  also  are  two  plant 
tours  a  year. 

The  sessions  are  held  every  month 
throughout  the  year  except  for  the  sum- 
mer months,  said  Van  Horn. 


While  most  of  us  walk,  crawl,  or 
drive  to  school  in  the  morning,  Phillip 
D.  Landers,  associate  professor  of 
business,  has  a  unique  mode  of 
transportation  -  he  skis. 

He  said  his  35  to  45  minute  journey 
starts  from  his  home  on  Lycoming 
Creek  Road,  three  miles  from  the  Col- 
lege. His  route  becomes  a  combination 
of  the  dike  system  and  the  frozen 
Lycoming  Creek. 

Landers  then  skies  along  the 
railroad  tracks  between  West  Third  and 
West  Fourth  Streets  until  he  gets  to 
Rose  Street.  He  walks  the  remaining 
two  blocks. 

"I  ski  to  school  on  Wednesdays  or 
Fridays  -  whenever  my  schedule  per- 
mits. Skiing  is  a  form  of  recreational 
transportation  for  me,  like  riding  my 
bicycle.  It's  good  for  the  body,  the 
soul,  and  it  clears  my  mind." 


He  added,  "1  carry  any  extra 
clothing,  my  lunch,  and  extra  waxes  for 
the  skis  in  a  small  backpack." 

Landers,  who  is  also  part-owner  of 
a  speciality  sporting  goods  store  in 
South  Williamsport  (Deliverance 
Lifetime  Sports),  used  to  downhill  ski  in 
college  and  has  cross-country  skied  for 
the  past  four  to  five  years. 

An  enthusiastic  runner,  loo,  he  has 
competed  in  eight  marathons  over  the 


Travel-Study  tour  of  China  scheduled 


There  is  a  19-day  Yangtze  Passages 
international  travel-study  course  being 
offered  through  the  Harrisburg  Area 
Community  College  and  Passacs,  Inc. 

According  to  Lawrence  W.  Emery, 
Jr.,  director  of  coun.scling,  career 
development,  and  placement  at  the  Col- 
lege, three  to  six  college  credits  in 
humanities  can  be  earned  on  an  audit, 
non-credit  basis  through  an  encountei' 
with  historic  and  natural  attractions  in 
The  People's  Republic  of  China. 


Interested  individuals  may  contact 
Douglas  Rosentrater,  director  of 
cultural  affairs,  at  (717)  780-2545  for 
additional  information. 

Early  confirmation  is  March  I. 

Tentative  date  set 
for  paramedic  testing 

The   Williamsport    Hospital   and 

Divine  Pnnidcncc  Hospital  have  ten- 
tatively set  May  and  .lune  as  the  months 
for  paramedic  pre-entrance  testing,  ac- 
cording to  Grant  Martin,  coordinator 
for  specialized  technical  educational 
programs. 

The  Williamsport  Hospital  is 
responsible  for  the  selection  of  the  par- 
ticipants of  this  program. 

Those  persons  desiring  more  infor- 
mation about  the  program  should  con- 
lad  the  Williamsport  Hospital  and  in- 
quire about  the  paramedic  pre-entrance 
testing,  said  Martin. 

The  calumet  is  a  long,  ornamented 
tobacco  pipe  used  by  North  American 
Indians     on     ceremonial     occasions. 


ON  THE  SKIS  AGAIN 
...Phillip  D.  Landers 

last  six  years  in  New  York  City, 
Philadelphia,  and  in  Washington,  D.C. 
(Marine  Corps  Marathon). 

"My  whole  family  is  very  involved 
in  outdoor  activities.  We  enjoy  skiing, 
canoeing,  running,  hiking,  and  bicycl- 
ing." 

-James  K.  Morrissey 
Staff  Writer 

Professor's  poem  published 

A  poem,  "On  Departing",  by 
Damon  L.  Thompson,  professor  of 
English,  was  recently  published  in  the 
anthology.  Our  Western  World's 
Greatest  Poems,  published  by  The 
World  of  Poetry  Press  in  California. 


National  Phi  Beta  Lambda  Week 

Don't  be  a  Sucker; 
Buy  a  Lollipop! 


Feb.  17 


Benefit  of 


Lollipop  Day! 


National     Building     Fund 
N.B.L.A.-P.B.L.  Inc. 


6aSP0TLIGHTDMi)ii<Uy,  Fct.  13,  IW4 

President's  contract  extended,  various  staff  changes^  approve^ 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees  ap-    been  employed  on  a  lemporary  basis  as 


iproved  personnel  changes  al  ihe  Feb.  6 
meeting.  Voted  upon  at  the  meeting 
|was  Ihe  contract  extension  of  Dr. 
iRoben  L.  Breuder,  College  president. 
Dr.  Breuder's  conlraci.  scheduled  to  ex- 
pire June  30,  1988,  was  extended  to 
ijune  30,  1989.    A  proposed  salary  of 


a  mathematics  instructor  since  August 
1983.  He  now  replaced  John  H.  Lego 
who  retired. 

-Supplemental  employment  of 
Michael  P.  Nestarick,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  mathematics  and  former  direc- 
tor of  math,  science  and  allied  health,  to 


director  of  staff  and  program  develop-    fcclive  Jan.   23,    1984,   al   an   annual 
menl,  effective  Feb.  6,  1984,  at  an  an-    200-day  salary  of  $6,759. 


nual  12-monlh  salary  of  $30,000,  to  be 
prorated  for  the  balance  of  the  fiscal 
year.  Mr.  Rice  replaces  Briggs  Dunn 
who  resigned  last  summer. 

Secretary  transferred 


Lab  assislanl  hired 

"Extended  employment  of  Linda 
D.  Emick  as  temporary  full-time 
replacement  custodian,  of  general 
serivces,  effective  Jan.   1  through  Jan. 


i$63,694  for  Dr.  Breuder  for  Ihe  period     provide  administrative  support  as  the 
[of  March  16,  1984  through  March  15,    mathematics  and  science  programs  are 


11985  was  approved. 
;  These  staff  changes  were  presented 
as  a  whole  to  the  board  and  approved 
'unanimously.    Among  changes  were: 

-Extended  employment  of  Michael 
iMertz  as  a  lemporary  full-lime  instruci 


transferred  to  the  Integrated  Studies 
Division    (formerly.    Humanities    and 
Communication  Arts  Division),  effec- 
tive Jan.  3  through  May  12,  1984. 
Employment  extended 
"Extended  employment  of  Janet 


"Rescind     the    retrenchment     of  31,  1984,  or  until  the  return  of  Frank 

Lawrence  Stabler,  a.ssistant  professor  of  D.    Fulmcr,   at   an   annual    12-monlh 

auto  mechanics,  effective  the  beginning  salary  of  $7,800,  to  be  prorated  for  Ihe 

of  the  1984  spring  semester.    Stabler  above  period.      Ms.   Emick   replaces 

replaces    Ramon    H.    Pickering   who  Fulmer  who  is  absent  due  to  a  disabili- 


itor  of  welding,  secondary  vocational     Querimit  as  temporary  full-time  replace- 


jprograms,  effective  Jan.  28  through 
June  8,  1984,  al  an  annual  185-day 
salary  of  19,092,  to  be  prorated  for  the 
balance  of  the  secondary  school  year. 

-Employment  of  Jack  D.  Murphy 
as  an  instructor  of  mathematics,  efTec- 
live  Jan.  3,  1984,  al  an  annual  t72-day 
salary  of  $19,530,  to  be  prorated  for  Ihe 
jbaJance^f  Ihe  school  year.  Murphy  has 


ment  nurse,  student  health  services  and 

educational  services,  effective  Jan.   3 

through  June  8,   1984,  or  until  Ihe 

return  of  Nancy  C.  Elias,  as  an  annual    of  the   fiscal   year 

12-month  salary  of  $13,100,  to  be  pro-    replaces   Barbara   A 

rated   for   the   above   period.      Ms. 

Querimit    temporarily    replaces    Mrs. 

Elias  who  is  absent  due  to  a  disability. 

_    -Employment  of  JamCs  Rice  as 


retired. 

-Transfer  of  Georgette  C.  Ander- 
son from  secretary  to  coordinator  of 
career  options  for  displaced 
homemakers  to  secretary  to  the  director 
of  financial  aid,  effective  Feb.  13,  1984, 
al  an  annual  12-month  salary  of 
$11,911,  to  be  prorated  for  the  balance 
Ms.  Anderson 
Mundorff  who 
transferred  to  Ihe  position  of  VA 
specialist  in  the  Financial  Aid  Office. 

-Employment  of  William  McKay 
as  toolroom  atteiidani,  electronics,  ef- 


Mayor  Lucasi  recognizes 
National  Phi  Bata  Lambda  Week 

This  week  is  National  Phi  Beta  Lambda  Week. 

In  a  mayoral  proclamation  this  week,  Stephen  J.  Lucasi,  Williamsport  Mayor, 
kill  ofTicially  recognize  the  occasion. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  hold  special  on-campus  events  during  the  week, 
iccording  to  David  A.  Haas,  PBL  president  and  computer  science  student  from 
Williamsport. 

Sfeow  ipprecjilion 

Free  coffee  will  be  available  for  all  business  and  computer  science  faculty 
members  "in  appreciation  of  their  efforts  in  providing  students  with  quality  educa- 
tion". 

Tomorrow,  there  will  be  a  free  raffle  held  in  the  PBL  office,  Room  333, 
Academic  Center  (ACC).  The  prize  will  be  a  Valentine  Whitman's  Sampler  box  of 
chocolates. 

"Anyone  interested  should  sign  up  for  the  free  drawing  at  the  PBL  ofTtce," 
said  Haas. 

Game  Thursday 

On  Thursday,  there  will  be  a  challenge  basketball  game  between  PBL  club 
members  and  Computer  Science  Club  members.  The  game  will  be  at  7  p.m.  in  the 
'  Bardo  Gym. 

Haas  added  that  everyone  is  urged  to  attend  this  game.  "We  would  especially 
like  PBL  students  lo,'Come  and  cheer  us  on." 

'Lollipop  Day'  Friday 

As  a  final  event  on  Friday,  PBL  will  have  a  "Lollipop  Day".  Club  members 
will  sell  assorted  lollipops.  The  proceeds  will  go  to  the  Future  Business  Leaders  of 
America/Phi  Beta  Lambda  Incorlporated  National  Building  Fund. 

The  fund  is  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  national  office  for  the  two 
puanizatioits  (FBLA  and  PBL)  in  Reslon,  Vg. 


Tutoring  Center  visits 
show  17  percent  jump 

The  Tutoring  Center  had  5,626 
"visits"  during  Fall  semester  of  1983,  a 
17  percent  increase  over  Fall  semester  of 
1982,  according  to  R.  Dean  Foster, 
director  of  Developmental  Studies  at  the 
College. 

Foster  also  said  the  visits  rellected 
a  54  percent  increase  over  the  same 
period  in  1981. 

The  visits  were  by  approximately 
900  studenU,  he  added. 

Foster  also  said  40  percent  of  the 
visits  were  for  English,  38  percent  for 
math,  7  percent  for  accounting  and  15 
percent  for  miscellaneous  and  technical 
areas. 


North  Campus  receives 
co-operative  education 

The  co-operative  education  is  being 
expanded  to  Ihe  North  Campus  of  the 
College. 

Anne  L.  Cridler  of  Mansfield  RD, 
conducted  a  survey  last  summer  to 
determine  the  feasibility  of  such  a  pro- 
gram al  North  Campus. 

Ms.  Crindler  is  the  coordinator  of 
the  program-  and  will  be  responsible  for 
developing  co-op  jobs.  She  will  then  fill 
ihem  with  eligible  students,  according  to 
William  C.  Bradshaw,  director  of  ex- 
periential learning. 

Bradshaw  expects  at  least  15 
sludcnls  will  parlicipale  in  the  program 
during  the  spring  and  summer. 


jRadio  station  staff 
jforms  new  club, 
iairs  daily  program 

I  The  College's  student-operated 
(.radio  station  staff  is  forming  a  club  that 
will  air  a  15-minute  program  every  mor- 
ning from  10  a.m.  to  10:15  a.m.  cover- 
ing events  such  as  news  and  stories 
about  the  College,  according  to  Bill  L. 
Phoenix,  broadcasting  student  from 
Lock  Haven  who  is  promotion  director. 

The  club  will  elect  a  management 
team  that  will  be  announced  at  a  later 
date,  he  said. 

The  club  is  open  to  Ihe  entire  stu- 
dent body  and  anyone  interested  in  join- 
ing should  contact  him  (Phoenix). 

The  news  and  stories  for  program- 
ming should  also  be  given  to  Phoenix. 
He  can  be  contacted  in  Room  138,  Ad- 
ministration Building  (ADM),  or  on 
Ext.  214,  he  said. 

Nurse  suggests 
a  Valentine  gift: 
take  your  'BP' 

Treat  your  heart  for  Valentine's 
Day.  Have  your  blood  pressure  check- 
ed in  Ihe  Health  Service  Center  from  8 
a.m.  to  3:30  p.m.,  said  Mrs.  Janet  R. 
Querimit,  nurse,  Health  Service  Center. 

Blood  pressure  is  simply  the 
pressure  exerted  on  the  vessel  walls  as 
the  blood  flows  through  Ihe  body.  The 
'systolic  pressure  is  the  maximum  force 
of  the  blood  exerted  on  vessels  when  the 
heart  is  working,  Mrs.  Querimit  said. 

The  diastolic  pressure  is  the  force 
of  the  blood  exerted  against  the  vessels 
when  the  heart  is  at  rest. 

Thui,  a  blood  pressure  reading  is 
systolic  pressure/diaslolic  pressure  given 
in  numbers  such  as  120/80,  she  said. 


"Employment  of  Karen  Olson  as  a 
lemporary  regular  part-time  laboratory 
assistant,  Individualized  Learning 
Center  for  typewriting  and  word  pro- 
cessing instruction,  Business  and  Com- 
puter Science  Division,  effective  Jan.  16 
through  April  30,  1984.  al  an  hourly 
rate  of  $4.23.    This  is  a  new  position. 

"Extended  employment  of  Lor- 
raine L.  Trcvino  as  regular  part-time 
AVT/computer  laboratory  assistant  at 
North  Campus,  effective  Jan.  9,  1984, 
at  an  hourly  rate  of  $5.95. 

Scholarships  available 
for  returning  students 

For  1984-85,  the  College  will  be 
awarding  $500  scholarships  to  approx- 
imately 14  returning  students  who  have 
a  cumulative  grade  point  average  of  3.0 
or  higher. 

Interested  students  must  complete 
the  scholarship  application  and  include 
letters  of  support  from  their  division 
directors  and  at  least  one  instructor. 

The  deadline  to  apply  is  April  I, 
1984.  Applications  are  available  at  the 
Circulation  desk  in  Ihe  Library  in  the 
Learning  Resources  Center  and  in  the 
Financial  Aid  Office,  Room  201, 
Academic  Center. 

^Outing  Club  members 
searching  for  recruits 

Members  of  the  Outing  Club  are 
looking  for  new  members  this  semester, 
according  to  Steven  T.  McDonald,  club 
adviser. 

McDonald,  media  technician,  add- 
ed, the  club  is  looking  for  "a  nucleus  of 
students  who  are  interested  in  doing 
some  outdoor  activities". 

McDonald  said  these  activities  can 
include  anything  from  backpacking  to 
canoeing  and  cross  country  skiing. 

Anyone  interested  in  joining  the 
club  may  contact  McDonald  in  the 
Media  Center  in  the  Learning  Resources 
Center  (LRC),  or  call  him  on  College 
Exi.  430. 


:        The  Arabic  name  for  Damascus  is 
Es  sham. 


SPOTLIGHTOMonday.  Feb.  U,  19M  j7 


Some  popular  foods  contain 
unwanted  calories,  extra  pounds 


Informalton  by  Mrs.  Janel  H.  Qucrimil. 
Cotlege  nurse,  Health  Services  Center 

Now  that  the  holidays  are  over  and 
we  are  all  carrying  around  a  few  excess 
pounds,  think  twice  before  reaching  for 
a  piece  of  pizza  or  for  a  fast  food  meal. 

Caloric  content  for  a  few  popular 
foods. 

Kern  Calories 

Burger  King 

Cheeseburger  305 

French  Fries  214 

Whopper  606 

McDonald's 

Big  Mac  541 

Egg  McMuffin  352 

Hotcakes/butler  and  syrup  472 

Quarter  Pounder  w/cheese  518 

Chocolate  Shake  364 

Wendy's 
Double  Cheeseburger  800 


Triple  Cheeseburger 

Frosty  Shake 

Pizza  Hul 

Regular  Cheese  (one  slice) 

Kentucky  Fried  Chicken 

Regular  Dinner 

Extra  Crispy  Dinner 


1040 
390 


830 
950 


Why   not  substitute  one  of  the 
following    for    a    healthy    snack? 

Hem  Calorics 

1  medium  apple  70 

I  medium  banana  85 

1  medium  pear  100 

1  medium  orange  70 
Half  cup  canned  syrup 

packed  fruit  cocktail  100 

Diet  soda  1 

Coffee  or  lea,  plain  0 

I  Tablespoon  sugar  15 


Creative  Kitchen  This  Week 

This  Evening,  Monday,  Feb.  13 

Minesira  (greens  wilh  pepperoni) 

Chicken  Caicciatora  (baked  chicken  w/seasonings) 

Linquine  Agles  e  Olio  (pasia  wilh  oil  and  garlic  sauce) 

Peas  Paisano  (sauleed  with  herbs) 

Chilled  Green  Bean  Salad  (red  pimenloes,  vinagrell) 

Inhouse  Italian  Bread  (w/garlic  butter  sauce,  grated  cheese) 

llalian  Almond  Cake    •    Orange  Sorbet    •    Beverages 

This  Wednesday,  Feb.  15 

llalian  Onion  Soup 

Chicken  Gismonda 

Risolta 

llalian  Green  beans  wilh  Peppers 

Frosly  Frozen  Fruil  Salad 

Italian  Flat  Bread 

Saronno  Zuccollo 

This  Thursday,  Feb.  16    •    A  Touch  of  France! 

Fragrant  Seafood  Bisque 

Mushroom  and  Walnut  Salad  wilh  Fennel  Dressing 

Escallopes  DeDinde  Normande  (Turkey  filet  w/apple  and  cream  garni) 

Pasta  wilh  basil  and  Parsley 

Asparagus  Mimosa 

Four  Fruil  Sorbet    •     Chocolate  Rum  Charlotte 

French  Loaf  Bread    •    Beverages 


«  I  ■      Ti.    n-i-i  Adveriiseiiieitl 

Asking  The  Bible 

Prepared  by  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  members 

Q.   Can  I  believe  in  God  in  my  own  way? 

A.  A  lot  of  people  believe  that  there  are  many  ways  to  know  God. 
After  all,  we  are  all  different:  we  are  all  individuals.  So  shouldn't  people 
relate  to  God  in  any  way  that  is  right  for  them? 

The  fact  is:  there  is  only  one  way  to  approach  God  and  that  is 
throught  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  The  Bible  quotes  Jesus  as  saying..."!  am 
the  way,  and  the  truth,  and  the  life;  no  one  comes  to  the  Father  but 
through  Mc."  (John  14:6). 

The  Bible  also  says  "and  there  is  salvation  in  no  one  else;  for  there  is 
no  other  name  under  heaven  that  has  been  given  among  men,  by  which  wc 
must  be  saved."  (Ads  4:12). 

In  truth,  if  it  were  possible  to  have  a  relationship  with  God  by 
ourselves,  then  it  never  would  have  been  necessary  for  God  to  send  Jesus 
into  the  world  to  suffer  and  die.  But  in  the  Bible  Jesus  says. .."I  come  that 
they  might  have  life,  and  might  have  it  abundantly.    (John  10:10). 

God  has  provided  the  way  for  us  to  know  and  believe  in  Him.  And  to 
try  to  come  to  God  in  any  other  way  is  to  reject  all  that  He  has  done  for 
us.  God  desires  all  men  to  be  saved  and  to  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth.  For  "  there  is  one  God,  and  one  mediator,  between  God  and  men, 
the  man,  Christ  Jesus."  (I  Timothy  2:5) 


ACROSS 

I  viper 

4  Once  more 

9  Deposit 

12  Sign  01 
zodiac 

13  Sew  lightly 

14  Devoured 

15  Figures  01 
speech 

17  Avoided 

19  Speck 

20  Inclination 

2 1  Kind  of  cloth 

23  Chaldean  city 

24  Pans  In  play 

27  Beverage 

28  Unlock 

30  Depression 

31  Note  of  scale 

32  Pledge 

34  Preposition 

35  Play  leading 
role 

37  Not  one 

38  Pronoun 

39  Weird 

41  Note  of  scale 

42  Additional 

43  Transactions 

45  Man's 
nickname 

46  Smart; 
colloq. 

48  Colonize 

51  King  Arthur's 
lance 

52  Muse  01 
poetry 

54  Organ  of 
hearing 

55  Still 

56  Style  of 
automobile 

57  Qrain 

DOWN 


2  Weight  ol 
India 

3  Small  dog 

4  Encourage 

5  Aeriform  fluid 

6  Conjunction 

7  Roman  road 

8  At  no  time 

9  Oar 

10  Southwest- 
ern Indian 

1 1  Spread  for 
drying 

16  Vessel 

18  Positive  pole 

20  Earthquakes 

21  Imitation 

22  Raise  the 
spirit  of 

23  Preposition 

25  Go  In 

26  Retail  estab- 
lishment 

28  Coniunctlon 

29  Baseball 
team 

32  Lifts  with 


lever 
33  Compass 

point 
36  Enthusiastic 
38  More  torrid 
40  Mollifies 
42  Small  rug 
44  Old  musical 

Instrument 


45  Gaseous 
element 

46  Arid 

47  Rsh  eggs 

48  Music:  as 
written 

49  Beat  down 

50  Before 

53  Paid  notice 


1 

2 

J 

1 

4 

t 

e 

' 

«- 

1 

»- 

10" 

vT 

u 

14 

w 

■ 

1? 

^F 

w 

!■ 

i 

■ 

W 

I 

^■" 

11" 

M 

Ji 

a* 

1 

40 

w 

■ 

JT 

ll 

Jl 

a 

!■ 

w 

HT 

1 

1 

u 

!7 

Answer  Nexl  Week 


Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  to  sponsor 
vocal  group  performance  Feb.  22 


Christian  Stephens,  a  contem- 
porary Christian  vocal  group  will  ap- 
pear at  7  p.m.  next  Wednesday,  Feb. 
22,  in  the  Academic  Center 
Auditorium.  The  group's  apperance  is 
being  sponsored  by  Alpha  Omega 
Fellowship,  a  Christian  fellowship 
organization  at  the  College. 

The  group,  using  acoustic  guitar 
and  acoustic  and  symphonic  pianos, 
creates  a  contemporary  mellow  sound. 

The  ministry  of  Christian  Stephens 
began  when  Michael  Christian  Shaw 
and  Robert  Stephen  Miller  met  and 
shared  their  faith  in  college.  Upon 
graduation,  they  began  performing  their 
own  musical  composititions  in  churches, 
nursing  homes  and  prisons.   Recently, 


Miller's  wife,  Joni,  was  added  as  a~ 
vocalist. 

The  group  has  made  two  albums 
and  has  performed  with  the  Imperials, 
Glad,  the  Benny  Hester  Band,  and 
many  others.  They  have  performed  in 
Florida,  Virginia,  and  South  Carolina 
as  well  as  other  states. 

Advance  tickets  will  be  sold  from 
11  a.m.  to  noon  today  through  next 
Wednesday  in  the  Academic  Center  lob- 
by. 

Advance  ticket  prices  are  SI  for 
College  students  with  identification 
cards  and  $1.50  for  all  others.  Tickets 
sold  at  the  door  will  be  S2. 

Individuals  seeking  additional  in- 
formation may  call  326-3761,  Ext.  269. 


Don  'I  leave  her  with 

a  broken  heart  today... 

Buy  her  a  carnation... 

Academic  Center  Lobby... 


SnSPOTllGHTO Monday.  Feb.  13.  I9M 


Rice  appointed  director  of  staff  and  program  development 


The  College  has  taken  on  a  new 
staff  member.  James  P.  Rice  began  his 
duties  Monday,  Feb.  6.  as  director  of 
staff  and  program  development,  suc- 
ceeding Briggs  Dunn  who  left  a  few 
months  ago. 

Rice  is  originally  from  Texas  and 
pursued  his  studies  at  the  University  of 
Texas.  He  was  graduated  with  a  doc- 
torate in  educational  administration. 

As  director.  Rice  will  be  facilitator 
for  programs  such  as  individualized 
specialized  enrichment. 


This  program  will  deal  with  all 
faculty  members.  It  will  help  them  to 
gain  more  cxperti,se  in  their  specific 
fields  and  increase  stragegics  in  their 
teaching  abilities. 

As  director  of  program  develop- 
ment. Rice's  duties  will  include  being  a 
program  facilitator  for  designated  pro- 
grams. 

He  will  also  do  the  ground  work 
for  faculty  training  and  curriculum 
development. 

Before  coming  (o  the  College,  Rice 


worked  at  a  community  college  in 
Washington  stale.  He  worked  as  coor- 
dinator of  developmental  studies  for  ap- 
proximately two  years.  Rice  said  he 
then  heard  about  the  job  opportunity 
here  and  decided  to  take  it. 


"It  will  be  a  challenge  lo  work  and 
provide  faculty  with  service,"  said  Rice. 
It  is  a  "very  exciting  College"  and. 
also,  an  "important  lime"  for  Ihe  Col- 
lege, he  said. 


FROM  TEXAS  TO  NORTH 
...new  director 


International  smorgasbord  tickets  available  until  next  Monday 


The  International  Student  Coor- 
dinating Association  of  Lycoming 
County  (ISCALC)  will  sponsor  its  15th 
annual  Intcrnalional  Smorgasbord  next 
Saturday,  Feb.  25,  according  to 
Kathryn  A.  Ferrencc,  career  develop- 
ment specialisl. 

The  dinner,  set  lo  start  at  6  p.m., 
will  feature  appetizers  from  Norway, 
Hungary,  and  Russia. 

The  Norway  appcli/er  will  be 
salmon  mousse  with  dill  sauce  and 
Mediterranean  aubergine  dip  with  pila. 

Westphalian  ham  bi.scuits  are  the 
appetizer  from  Hungary. 

From  Russia,  the  appetizer  will  be 
bitoks  in  sour  cream. 

Dinner  will   include  sunrcmes  dc 


Vallaile  au  champagne  (chicken  in 
chatnpagne)  from  France  and  beef 
vinkcn  (beef  sleaks,  veal  sluffing  and 
sauce)  from  Belgium.  Dinner  will  also 
include  iniernational  breads,  salads, 
and  vegetables. 

Climaxing  the  meal  will  be  pro- 
fitcrolc  glace  aux  ccrr.ses  fiambe  (cream 
puffs  filled  with  ice  cream  and  with  a 
flaming  cherry  .sauce). 

Tickets  will  be  available  unlil  next 
Monday,  Feb.  20  from  ISCALC  board 
members.  Tickets  may  also  be  obtained 
from  Joseph  Sick,  Box  320,  RD  1, 
Monloursvillc,  Pa.  17754  or  by 
telephoning  546-5685,  or  from  Janet 
Espcnshade,   Box   259,   RD   1,   Mon- 


Accounting  students  to  offer  free 
help  in  preparing  tax  returns 

Fourth  semester  accounting  students  at  the  College  will  be  providing  free  tax 
assistance. 

About  one  dozen  student  volunteers  will  provide  assistance  for  those  unable  to 
afford  professional  assistance  or  are  too  confused  about  the  process. 
Trained  by  IRS 

According  lo  Phillip  D.  Landers,  associate  professor  of  business  administra- 
tion and  coordinator  for  the  Volunteer  Income  Tax  Assistance  Program  (VITA)  at 
the  College,  the  student  volunlecrs  are  Irained  in  basic  returns  preparation  by  Ihe 
Internal  Revenue  Service. 

Students  will  assist  taxpayers  with  Forms  I040A.  I040EZ,  and  Ihe  basic  1040 
form,  including  exemptions,  deductions,  and  special  credits  for  which  some  lax- 
payers  may  be  eligible. 

Service  slarls  today 

Taxpayers  interested  in  free  tax  help  should  bring  their  tax  packages,  W-2 
forms,  interest  statements,  and  other  pertinent  lax  documents  to  the  VITA  Center, 
located  in  the  Tutorial  Lab  of  Ihe  Learning  Resources  Center. 

The  center  will  be  open  from  3:30  p.m.  to  7:30  p.m.  on  Tuesdays  and 
Thursdays  and  from  3:.30  p.m.  lo  5:30  p.m.  on  Mondays  and  Wednesdays,  beginn- 
ing today  through  Thursday,  April  12. 


"'ABSENCE'  COULD  WELL  BE 
THE  BEST  PICTURE  OF  THE  YEAR. 


PAUL     SALLY 
NEWMAN  FIELD 


ABSENCE  OF  MALICE 


Tonight 
7 -JO  p.m. 


ACC  Auditorium 


$1  (with  ID) 
$2  (without  ID) 


toursville.  Pa.  17754  or  telephoning 
433-4661,  or  from  Otto  Book  Store,  25 
W.  Fourth  St.,  Williamsporl,  Pa. 
17701,  or  from  Ms.  Ferrence  in  Room 
157,  Learning  Resources  Center  (Ext. 
398). 

ISCALC    sponsors    inlernalionai 


students.  The  group  is  sponsoring 
Clemenle  Medo,  an  electronics 
technology  student  from  Kenya. 
ISCALC  pays  for  all  his  expenses.  Ms. 
Ferrencc  pointed  out  that  sponsorship 
of  a  student  generally  amounts  lo 
$12,000  to  $16,000. 


AMERICAN 

1740   Broadway 

New  York,  N.Y.   10019 


LUNG  ASSOCIATION 

The  Chnsrinas  Seal  People  " 


David  Copperf  ield  Makes 
Magic  with  Morgan  Fairchiid 

For  an  ordinary  man.  having  a 
magical  relationship  with  gorgeous 
Morgan  Fairchild  is  in  the  realm  of 
sheer  fantasy.  But  David  Cop- 
perfield.  the  master  illusionist,  is  no 
ordinary  man,  Copperfield  recently 
got  his  chance  to  make  magic  with 
the  glamorous  blonde  when  the  two 
appeared  together  on  a  public  serv- 
ice TV  spot  in  which  they  talk  about 
the  dangers  of  smoking  on  behalf  of 
the  American  Lung  Association - 
The  Christmas  Seal  People*. 

Copperfield  already  can  boast  of  a 
prestigious  career  in  prestidigita- 
tion: while  still  a  16-year-old  high 
school  student,  Copperfield  taught 
"The  Art  of  Magic"  course  at  New 
York  University,  But  the  illusionist 
is  accustomed  to  being  the  youngest 
at  most  things  he's  done.  At  age 
12,  for  example,  he  became  the 
youngest  person  ever  admitted  into 
'The  Society  of  American  Magi- 
cians"; by  the  time  he  was  24,  mil- 
lions had  witnessed  him  levitate 
and  make  giant  objects  disappear. 
On  separate  occasions  he's  made  a 
Ferrari  and  a  7-ton  Lear  Jet  vanish 
into  thin  air.  Last  spring,  the  illu- 
sionist seemingly  caused  the  Staiue 
of  Liberty  to  vanish  before  the 
startled  eyes  of  a  live  audience  on 
Liberty  Island  and  millions  of  tele- 
vision viewers. 

Besides  making  magic  for  the 
American  Lung  Association,  Cop- 
perfield has  introduced  "Project 
Magic."  an  international  program 


David  Copperfield 

that  teaches  magic  as  occupational 
therapy.  When  disabled  people 
leam  tricks  of  the  magician's  trade. 
it  helps  their  visual  skills,  problem 
solving,  perception,  and  coordina- 
tion. 'The  beauty  of  magic,"  Cop- 
perfield says,  "is  that  it  gives  the 
disabled  person  a  skill  that  an  aver- 
age non-disabled  person  doesn't 
have.  It  gives  the  disabled  an  oppor- 
tunity to  teach  the  able-bodied," 

Copperfield  is  a  "Magician  of  the 
Year"  and  Emmy  Award  winner 
and  has  appeared  at  the  White 
House  at  the  request  of  President 
and  Mrs,  Reagan.  In  the  American 
Lung  Association  television  spots, 
Copperfield  advises  viewers  not  to 
count  on  magic  but  to  "take  care  of 
your  lungs.  They're  only  human," 


TV's  Sultry  Star  Lives  the  Good  Life 


"I  don't  smoke.  I  don't  drink,  and  I 
don't  do  drugs,"  declares  Morgan 
Fairchild,  the  blonde,  blue-eyed  ac- 
tress best  known  to  television  view- 
ers as  the  femme  fatale  on  NBC's 
Flamingo  Road.  Despite  her  TV  im- 
age as  a  "bad"  woman,  Morgan  lives 
a  healthy  lifestyle  that  makes  her  a 
natural  to  star  in  an  upcoming  anti- 
smoking  public   service  campaign 


for  the  American  Lung  Associa- 
tion-The  Christmas  Seal  People*. 

For  the  Lung  Association  spot, 
magician  David  Copperfield  makes 
Morgan's  lungs  disappear  to  em- 
phasize their  antismoking  message, 
"Please  take  care  of  your  lungs. 
They're  only  human." 

For  help  in  quitting  smoking,  call 
your  local  Lung  Association. 


WWAS  on  the  air! 

A  'sneak  peek'  inside 
the  College  radio  station 

Photos  by  Mary  L.  Pease 


SPOTLIGHT  JMond.y,  Feb.  13,  1984    9 


CHECKING  THE  WIRE  service  for 
news  sinries  is  public  relations  manager 
Bill  L.  Phoenix,  from  Mill  Hall.  The 
news  slories  are  "stripped"  and  then 
pegged  under  headings  according  to  Ihe 
story. 


"COME  ON  IN  and  lake  a  look  inside 
WWAS,  radio  station." 


EDITING  SPORTS  COPY  is  a  requirement 
before  it  is  read  and  recorded  onto  carts  in  Ihe 
production  room.  Pictured  here  outside  the  pro- 
duction room  are,  from  left,  Michael  A.  Miller, 
from  Brockway,  Geoffrey  M.  Hoover,  from 
Williamsport,  and  Christopher  M.  Fry,  from 
Montoursville. 


PEGGING  THE  NEWS  is  Wesley  H. 
Lalchford  from  Alloona.  Depending 
upon  Ihe  story,  copy  is  placed  under 
slate,  national,  sports,  billboard,  or 
features. 


WWAS  88FM 

Mon.-Thurs.  9  a.m.  to  1  a.m.. 
Fri.  9  a.m.  to  5  p.m. 


PLACING  THE  NEWS  on  a  carl  is  Wesley  H. 
Lalchford,  in  the  production  room.  Music,  pro- 
motions and  public  service  announcements  (PSAs) 
are  also  pre-recorded  onto  carts. 


326-1408 


GLANCING  OVER  ALBUMS  is  assistant 
general  manager  in  charge  of  music,  public 
relations,  promotions,  and  productions, 
James  M.  Baleslino,  from  Altoona. 


TAKING  A  BREAK  from  the  usual,  daily 
commotion  at  the  WWAS  radio  station  is 
Ms.  Candace  A.  Hartranft,  from 
Williamsport. 


ON  THE  AIR  in  the  control  room  is 
Michael  A.  Miller,  who  is  in  charge  of  news 
and  sports  production  and  assistant  general 
manager. 


lOoSPOTLIGHTDMondsy.  Frt.  13.  1984 


Debate  kicks  off  campaign 


Conimedjmii  Page  2Umm 
show,  had  lolal  conlrol  ol  whai  ques- 
lions   would   be   asked   ol    Ihe   can- 
didates 

Donahue,  whose  forle  is  pro- 
vocative questions,  roanned  Ihe  aisles, 
seeking  questions  from  the  audience  ol 
400  selected  to  represent  a  cross  sec- 
tion ot  the  area's  electorate 

Sen  Glenn  kicked  oil  the  debate 
by  accusing  Mondale  of  "offering 
gobbledy-gook  and  promising 
everything  to  everybody  " 

Accu»li(ins  fKChin|>rd 

He  added.  "I'm  disgusted  and 
tired  of  all  the  vague  promises  I  wish 
Ihe  former  vice  president  would,  in 
fact,  get  some  figures  down  so  he  can 
compare  with  what  Ihe  rest  of  us  are 
proposing." 

IVIondale  angrily  accused  Glenn  of 
backing  Reaganomics  and  sharing  the 
blame  lor  Ihe  current  $200  billion 
deficit,  supporting  "poison  nerve  gas" 
and  using  "voodoo  numbers"  to  attack 
the  Mondale  piogram 

B8ck|>riiund  Hlres.<ieil 

In  the  background.  Glenn  shouted, 
"The  administiation  ot  Ivlondale  and 
former  president  Jimmy  Carter  gave  us 
21  percent  inlerest  rates,  a  17  percent 
inflation  rate " 

Ivfondale  shouted  in  retaliation, 
"There's  just  been  about  a  six-minule 
speech-all  of  it  baloney  " 

Iv/londale,     who    stressed     his 


background  as  vice  president  frequent- 
ly, urged  a  return  to  many  military, 
foreign  and  domestic  policies  carried 
out  by  President  Jimmy  Carter 

The  Rev  Jesse  Jackson  describ- 
ed his  campaign  as  an  effort  on  behatt 
o(  women,  blacks  and  Hispanics  who, 
he  said,  are  "now  Ihe  maprity  ol  the 
Democratic  parly" 

Crantson  said  he  is  the  candidate 
most  committed  to  arms  conlrol- 
Calls  frir  free« 
!Sen.  Hart  made  an  effort  to  draw 
support  as  a  "new  generation"  political 
leader  with  new  ideas  on  defense, 
social  spending  and  economics 

Sen  Hollings.  was  willing  to  nsk 
Ihe  wrath  of  parly  activists  by  calling 
for  a  one-year  across-the-board  budget 
freeze  and  reinstitution  of  Ihe  military 
draft 

Former  Gov  Askew  was  the  sell- 
proclaimed  "different  Democrat."  who 
opposes  the  nuclear  freeze,  abortion 
and  protection  of  American  induslries- 
Former  Sen  McGovern  was  most 
radical  in  his  demands  for  absolute  cut 
in  defense  spending  and  revealed 
some  of  the  prairie  populist  appeal  to 
democratic  liberals  that  won  him  Ihe 
parly  nomination  in  1972 

The  debate  was  produced  by 
Brooklyn  democrat  Rep  Charles 
Schumer.  who  was  aided  by  TV  pro- 
ducer Norman  Lear 


Streisand  blends  humor 
and  pity  in  movie,  YentI 


...movie 

Dig  deep  people!  Get  your  nickles 
and  dimes  together  tor  one  of  the  most 
delightful  and  moving  movies  seen  by 
this  reporter  in  years  The  film  I  am 
showing  so  much  enthusiasm  for  is 
yen//,  written,  produced,  and  directed 
by  Barbara  Streisand 

Streisand  has  succeeded  in  blen- 
ding humor,  pathos  and  an  almost 
'documentary  look  at  life  in  a  Jewish 
family  The  film  is  a  triumph  lor  her; 
she  is  certainly  no  longer  just  a  pretty 
face  placed  in  lukewarm  roles  such  as 


review  by  Robert  0.  Hawk 

-in  her  casting  as  Fanny  Bryce  in  Funny 
Girl 

This  close-up  look  at  the  life  of  a 
Jewish  girl  and  her  struggles  to 
become  the  girl  she's  always  wanted 
to  be  has  excellent  photography  along 
with  some  outstanding  editing.  The 
film  flows  from  one  scene  to  another 

II  IS  a  rare  occasion  when  I  am 
totally  satisfied  with  a  film  that  I've  paid 
good  money  to  see  I  would  say  Yenll 
is  definitely  worth  $4  This  is  a  truly 
entertaining  movie 


FOR  SALE  RIDE  NEEDED 

2  Sears  Superguard  mud  and  snow  tires  To  Wilkes-Barre/Kingslon  area  every 

X.S.T.  Siie  A78-13,  fiberglass  belled,  Friday.    Also  need  ride  from  Wilkes- 

Iwo-ply  lubeless.  $25  each.    Call  Ext.  Barre/Klngston  on  Sunday  evening. 

455.  Call  Steve  at  327-8269  after  5  p.m. 


Students,  show  the  world 
how  much  you  have 
LEARNED 

Humpty  Dumpty 

Sub  &  Pizza  shops 


1  r* 


Show  valid  studeni  ID 

I  Souilmde  and  gel  10%  OFF  all  food  orders  Oeek  Side, 

iCeiilral  &  Markei  (Good  iiiw  per  peniiiij  Creek  Rd 

[{ii^^l mma 


Whaddya' 
say...  ? 


Question:  If  you  had  children  of 
your  own.  would  you  allow  them  to 
watch  rock  videos? 

Location:  Aviation  Facility  at  the 
Wiliiamsport-Lycomjng  County  Air- 
port 


James  P  Brady,  aviation 
maintenance  leclinician  student 
from  twiitflinburg:  ""Yeh.  I  dun't 
see  why  not.  as  lung  as  iliey"re 
done  studying  their  basic  elec- 
tricity " 


William  E  Bene,  aviain  ri 
technology  sludent  from  (vton- 
loursville:  "I  would  let  my  kids 
waich  Spandau  Ballet  and  Billy 
Joel,  but  no  heavy  meial " 


^ 


William  P  fvlcCabe.  aviation 
maintenance  sludent  from  Hum- 
mels  Wharf  "If  I  could  pick  what 
lines  they'd  put  on  TV.  I  wouldn't 
mind  it  they  watched  itiem  " 


Robert  fvliller.  aviation 
maintenance  lechmcian  siuderil 
Irom  Ivluncy.  "I  wouldn't  let  them 
watch  TV.  let  alone  videos  " 


Jamie  L.  Dick,  aviation 
mainieriance  technician  sludent 
Irom  Hollidaysburg  "I  don't  mind 
ihem  I  ihink  ihey're  all  right,  but 
ihere's  a  lew  that  are  ques- 
tionable " 


Brian  M  Murray,  aviation 
mairiienance  technician  student 
from  Ivlifflinville  "Sure!  There's 
nothing  wrong  with  the  music  " 


Susquehanna  Street 


Take  a  few  extra  steps 
for  fine  foods. 
(Dally  Specials) 


Bardii  Gym 


ADM  BIdg. 

234  Park  SI. 


—      t~>   -n 


Phone:    326-7983      i 
Open:    7  a.m.  'lil  7  p.m. 


Wooly's 
Place 


■  Cdupiin:  1 30  cents  off  whole  Sub  2- IS 


-^^' 


Wildcats  lose    Seber  bowls  top  position 
close  match-up 


SPOTUCHTHMondiy,  Ftl).  13.  I984fjll 


In  men's  baskciball  action  lasl 
Tuesday,  Feb.  7,  the  Wildcats  losi  ui 
Keystone  Junior  College,  92  to  81,  ac- 
cording to  Coach  Louis  J.  Menago, 
assistant  professor  of  machine  shop. 

Tomorrow,  at  7  p.m.,  the  Wildcats 
play  Lycoming  College  JV  in  the  Bardo 
Gym. 

In  lasl  week's  game,  Richard  A. 
Sutton,  carpentry  construction  student 
from  Towanda,  and  Tom  C.  McNamcc, 
business  management  student  frotn 
Williamsport,  made  their  efforts  known 
and  scored  26  and  22,  consecutively. 
Sutton  shot  67  percent,  added  Menago. 

Charles  E.  Johnson,  automotive 
student  from  Williamsport,  netted  M 
for  the  Wildcat  cagers. 

The  Wildcats  were  holding  on  with 
1:50  left  on  the  clock,  bul  in  their  al- 
lempl  to  get  the  ball  back  committed 
too  many  fouls  which  cost  them  the 
game. 

"The  Wildcats  shot  llfor  12allhe 
foul  line  and  played  ii  super  game,"  ac- 
cording 10  Menago.  They  held  their  op- 
ponents' high  scorer  to  a  16-poinl  game 
which  was  14  short  of  his  average. 


Franklin     J.     Seber,     electrical  Women's  high  singles 

technology    student     from    Scranton,  Denisc  M.  King,  secretarial  science 

maintained  his  number  one  position  in    student  from  Cogan  Station,  165. 


last  week's  bowling  league  action. 

Cindy    M.   Cekovich,   floriculture 

The  results  according  to  the  Lanes' 

student  from  Mechanicsburg,  158. 

management  are: 

Denise     M.     McNeil,     computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  151. 

Team  standings 

High  learn  singles 

Team                            Wins  Losses 

CU-JO,  840. 

1.  CU-JO                         9 

3 

Flinstones,  829. 

2.  Boneheads                  i'/i 

31/2 

Head  Pins,  825. 

3.  High  Rollers                  8 

4 

Men's  high  series 

4.  Destroyers                     8 

4 

Seber,  721. 

5.  Head  Pins                    7 

5 

Reamsnyder,  244. 

6.  Cillo-Etts                     7 

5 

Mondschein,  225. 

7.  Dew  Crew                    6 

6 

Women's  high  series 

8.  Mad  Hatters                 4 

8 

McNeil,  414. 

9.  Flinsioncs                    4 

8 

King,  413. 

10.  Unpredictables           i'A 

8'/2 

Cekovich,  381. 

II.  Bandits                      2 

10 

High  (earn  series 

12.  No  Names                  2 

ID 

Cillo-Etts,  2422. 
Head  Pins,  2415. 

Men's  high  singles 

CU-JO,  2414. 

Seber,  bowled  a  276. 

Top  five  averages 

Mark    E.    Rcamsnyder, 

business 

Seber,  205. 

management       student 

from 

Reamsnyder,  200. 

Williamsport,  bowled  a  244. 

Zohn,  188. 

Scott  R.  Mondschein,  electrical  oc- 

Doug E.  Mayer,  business  manage- 

cupations student  from  Coplay 

bowled 

ment  student  from  Williamsport,  187. 

a  225. 

Mondschein,  225. 

PBL  establishes      The  Bums  are  no  bums: 
intramural  team      they  raise  record  on  IM  courts 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  has  established 
an  intramural  volleyball  team.  Roger 
A.  Ciradcn,  computer  science  student 
from  Williamsport,  will  be  the  team's 
captain. 

"All  PBL  members  are  urged  to 
come  to  the  volleyball  games  and  cheer 
us  on,"  said  David  A.  Haas,  PBL  club 
president  and  cimipulcr  .science  student 
friim  Williamsport. 

"Anybody  with  qucsli(nis  about 
game  limes  should  contact  Gradcn  at 
the  PBL  office,"  Haas  added. 

The  PBL  office  is  in  Room  333, 
Academic  Center  (ACC). 


The  Bums  raised  their  record  to 

two  wins,  no  losses  in  the  five-on-flve 
basketball  league  action  last  week, 
beating  the  Hemer-roidz,  54  to  52,  in 
overtime,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

In  other  game  action,  the  Iceberg 
Bombers  defeated  the  76ers,  57  to  45, 
added  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Current  team  standings  for  the  five- 
on-ftve  league  are: 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 


Today 

Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 
Volleyball. ..6:30  to  10  p.m. 
Basketball  league. ..8  to  10  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 
Bowling.. .4  to  6  p.m. 
Volleyball. ..4:30  to  5:30  p.m. 

Wednesday,  Feb.  15 
Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 
Volleyball.. .6:30  to  10  p.m. 
Basketball  league. ..8  to  10  p.m. 

Thursday,  Feb.  16 
Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 
Indoor  soccer. ..6:30  to  8  p.m. 


Team 

Wins 

Losses 

Blitzkriek 

I 

0 

Bums 

2 

0 

Hemer-roidz 

0 

I 

Iceberg  Bombers 

0 

I 

R.T.&T. 

0 

0 

RumDumLuckers  0  0 

76ers  0  I 

612  Globetrotters  0  0 

Tarheels  0  0 

Yuckatanners  0  2 

Blitzkriek  is  scheduled  to  play 
R.T.&T.  at  8  p.m.  and  the  Tarheels  will 
play  612  Globetrotters  at  9  p.m.  tonight 
in  the  Bardo  Gym,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 
This  Wednesday,  the  Bums  will 
play  the  76ers  at  8  p.m.  and  the 
Globetrotters  will  take  on  the  Yuckatan- 
ners at  9  p.m. 


MOVING  ON  THE  OUTSIDE 

Wrestling  bouts 
results  listed 

The  results  of  the  intramural 
wrestling  finals  for  the  tournament  held 
the  week  of  Jan.  30,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities, 
are: 

(125)  Dean  L.  Hurd,  machine  tool 
technology  student  from  Milesburg, 
dccisioned  Darrin  J.  Gennocro,  elec- 
tronics technology  student  from  Ein- 
porium,  8  lo  2. 

(150)  Jeffery  A.  Kelly,  aviation 
maintenance  technician  student  from 
Lcwistown,  decisioned  Rodney  S. 
Troutman,  machinist  general  student 
from  Hcgins,  8  to  7. 

(160)  Daniel  W.  Foxx,  electrical 
occupations  student  from  Rcedsville, 
piinicd  John  A  .  Gladfelter,  business  ~ 
management  student  from  State  Col- 
lege, 4:27. 

■■■  Please  lurn  10  Page  12 


m 

SKIRMISH  FOR  THE  BALL 


Bowlers  needed 

Two  students  arc  still  needed 
10  complete  a  team  for  intramural 
bowling  at  ABC  Lanes,  according 
to  the  Lanes'  management.  In- 
terested pcr.siins  may  call  the 
laiics  at  326-2885. 


YOUR 
TICKET  TO 
THE  MOST  EXCITING 
SPTOTS) 


TURN  US  ON 

88FKK 


IDIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH 


12nSPOTllGHTnMond»y,  Ffb.  13,  1984 

BULLETIN  BOARD 

For  week  oj  Monday,  Feb.  13  Ihmug/i  Sunday,  Feb.  19 
MEETINGS 

Ski  Club...  4  10  5  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  325.  Academic  Center. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  to  10  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  6,  Academic 
Center. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau...  4  to  5  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  218,  Administration 
Building. 

MOVIE 

Absence  of  Malice...  7:30  p.m.  tonight.  Academic  Center.  Admission,  $1 
with  validated  student  ID,  $1  for  .senior  cili/^cns  and  children  under  12,  and  $2  for 
all  others. 

ACTIVITIES 

Skiing  al  Oregon  Hill...  This  Wednesday.  Bus  leaves  Learning  Resources 
Center  at  5:30  p.m.  and  returns  at  10  p.m.  Must  sign  up  in  IM  Office,  Room  108, 
Bardo  Gym. 

Ice  Skating...  This  Thursday  at  the  Sunbury  Community  Youth  Center.  Bus 
^leaves  Learning  Resoucres  Center  at  5:30  p.m.  and  returns  at  9  p.m.  Free  with 
validated  .student  ID. 

Horticulture  Club  Carnation  Sale...  Today  and  tomorrow.  Academic  Center 
Lobby.   $1  for  one  stem,  $2.50  for  three  stems  and  $4.50  for  six  stems. 

Computer  Science  Club  Candy  Sale ...  Today  and  tomorrow.  Academic  Center 
Lounge,  from  9  a.m.  to  3  p.m. 

Another  session  for  ID  photos 
starts  today,  evening  hours  listed 

Starling  today  and  continuing  through  Feb.  24,  the  taking  of  student  photos 
for  identification  cards  will  again  be  made  available  to  students,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  times  are  Monday  through  Friday  from  1 1  a.m.  to  12  p.m.  in  Room  202, 
Academic  Center  (ACC).  They  will  also  be  taken  evenings  on  Monday  through 
Thursday  from  6  lo  8  p.m..  Room  202  ACC. 

Afier  Friday,  Feb.  24,  ID's  will  only  be  taken  on  Monday  evenings  from  6  to  8 
p.m..  Room  202,  ACC. 

This  is  sponsored  by  the  Student  Government  Association  (SGA),  said  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 


Drinkin' 
buddies* 


service 

(•/BEVERAGE  CO. 


419-421  Fifth  Ave.  •  Williamsport,  Pa.  *  717/323-3237 


Y  Artists  sponsor  ^ 
I  'hot  dog  in  beer'  ^ 
I       sale  this  week       ^ 

I  Artists  (Jnllmited  memben  < 
f'have  scheduled  a  hoi  dnf>  sale  for  ' 
.(his  Wednesday  from  10  a.m.  un-    ' 

IH  2  p.m.  in  Ihe  foyer  of  (he 

Academic  Center  (ACC). 

The  hoi  dogs  will  be  steamed 

ia  beer  and  can  be  ordered  lop- 
rped  with  sauerkraul,  or  a 
^'famous"  homemade  chili 
l^'iccipe,  and/nr  i  vartety  of  coa- 
llBments.  ,, 

!  The  students  are  selling  the  J 
P'dogs"  to  help  pay  for  a  fi'W* 
□rip  to  Washington  D.C.  schedul- 
ed for  April  13  and  14,  according 
po  Patrick  D.  Murphy,  assistant 
'professor  of  advertising  art  and 
^t  group's  adviser. 

Wrestling  bouts 

Conlimied Jrow  Page  //■■■ 

(180)  Walter  J.  Hubbard,  com- 
puter science  student  from  Danville, 
dccisioncd  Jan  C.  McChesney,  accoun- 
ting student  from  Centre  Hall,  8  to  7. 

(UNL)  Stanley  J.  Menlzer,  con- 
struction operation  student  from  Biggcr- 
villc,  decisioned  Joseph  M.  Schacffer, 
diesci  mechanic  sludenl  from  Green 
.Castle. 

Club  meeting  set, 
speaker  scheduled 

Gary  L.  Kurtz,  systems  program- 
mer in  planning  technical  support  at  the 
Geisinger  Medical  Center  in  Danville, 
will  talk  to  members  of  the  Computer 
Science  Club  tomorrow. 

Kurtz  will  discuss  the  club's  tour  of 
the  center  scheduled  for  Feb.  21. 

The  club  meeting  will  be  held  at 
3:30  p.m.  in  Room  321,  Academic 
Center. 


Employment 
Opportunities 

In/ormotioff  famished  by  College  Place- 
men! Office  in  Learning  Resources  Center.  In- 
quiries should  be  directed  to  thai  office. 

PART-TIME  FLOOR  WALKERS 
Flnnr  walkers  need  lo  apprehend 
shoplifters  at  Hills  Department  Store, 
Montgomery  Pike.  Either  from  3  lo  8 
p.m.  or  from  5  lo  10  p.m.,  three  days  a 
week.  Persons  must  be  alert  and  pay 
attention  lo  detail,  and  be  self- 
motivated.  If  interested,  fill  out  ap- 
plication for  employment  al  the  store. 
You  will  be  called  for  an  interview. 

SERVICE  TECHNICIAN 

Service  technician,  20  hours  a  week  to 
repair  small  engines,  appliances, 
vacuum  cleaners,  and  lawnmowers  at 
Sears,  Roebuck  &  Co.,  in  the  Lycom- 
ing Mall.  If  interested,  stop  by  Person- 
nel Office  al  Sears  between  the  hours 
of  10  a.m.  and  3  p.m.  and  fill  out  an 
application. 

Summer  Employment:  Interviewer 
InlermittenI  Intake  Interviewer 
-Temporary,  could  expand  to  full- 
time.  Would  be  working  al  the  local 
employment  office  in  the  summer.  Re- 
quires two  yerars  of  experience  inter- 
viewing or  two  years  of  college.  Salary 
is  $7  an  hour,  if  interested,  secure  a 
state  civil  service  application  from  Ihe 
Bureau  of  Employment  Security  al 
1300  Sheridan  St.  (Williamsport)  and 
send  it  lo  Bureau  «f  Personnel,  Room 
405,  Labor  &  Industry  BIdg.,  Har- 
risburg.  Pa.  17120.  Applications 
should  be  sent  by  Feb.  20  (next  Mon- 
day). 

Omitted  from  Dean's  List 

The  name  of  David  W.  Romberger, 
diesel  mechanic  student  from  Box  198, 
Millersburg,  RD  1,  was  inadvertantly 
omitted  from  the  Dean's  List  which  was 
published  in  last  week's  SPOTLIGHT. 


MAY  GRADUATES 

Last  Day  to  Petition  to  Graduate 
is  Friday,  Feb.  17! 

mat's  this  Friday... 
Petition  is  necessary  so  credentials  may  be 
evaluated.     Pick  up  form  at  Student  Records 
Window,  first  floor,  Academic  Center. 


PLAV  LUCKY 
NUMBERS  AND 
WIN  A  WHOLE 
SUB  AND  IMED. 
DRINK 


Cilb's  College  Comer 

IIM  W.  Third  SI.,  Williamsport 
(Next  to  Academic  Cenlerl 
PHONE  AHEAD:   322-1321 

HOURS:    7:}0  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m. 
Monday  thru  Friday 


Spotlight 

Tui'sda>.  lib.  21.  IVH4    •    V(pl.  19.  No.  2.^    •    4  Faun 
Williainspnrl  Ari'a  C'nmmunily  College    •    Willianhporl.  Pa.  17701 


Plans  to  attend  conference 

to  be  discussed  at  PBL  meeting     ^ 


Phi  Bcia  Lambda  (PBL)  will  mcci 
Thursday  in  Riioni  204,  Academic 
Cenlcr  (ACC)  from  11  a.m.  Ici  12  p.m. 

According  lo  David  A.  Haas,  club 
prcsidcnl  and  computer  science  sludcnl 
from  Williaiiisporl,  plans  to  attend  the 
Stale  Leadership  Conference  in  Har- 
risburg  on  April  6,  7,  and  8  will  be 
discu.ssed. 

The  State  Leadership  C(mfercnce  is 
a  competition  among  the  Pennsylvania 
chapters  of  PBL.  Testing  categories  in- 
clude secretarial  procedures,  typing,  ac- 
counting, and  data  processing,  among 
others,  said  Haas. 

Winners  in  the  State  Leadership 
Conference  then  compete  at  the  Na- 
tional Leadership  Conference  in  Atlan- 
ta, Ga.,  July  5  through  9. 

The  club  will  also  discuss  its  coor- 
dinating efforts  for  the  Region  7, 
Regional  Future  Business  Leaders  of 
America  (FBLA)  Spring  Leadership 
Conference  to  be  held  March  I  at  the 
College.     PBL  will  host  the  event,  he 


said. 

The  conference  is  a  competition  for 
FBLA  high  school  students.  Testing 
categories  include  accounting,  business 
law,  data  processiitg,  public  speaking, 
and  stenography,  to  name  a  few,  said 
Haas. 

High  schools  which  will  be 
represented  are  Jersey  Shore,  Berwick, 
Bloomsburg,  Lock  Haven,  Mansfield, 
Millville,  Muncy,  South  Williamsporl, 
Sullivan  County,  and  Williamson. 

In  addition,  the  club  will  complete 
plans  for  the  lOth  animal  Business  Sym- 
posium to  be  held  Friday,  March  .TO  at 
the  College. 

Computer  Science  Club 
visits  medical  center 

The  Cinnputcr  Science  Club  is 
scheduled  to  go  on  a  field  trip  to  Geis- 
inger  Medical  Center  in  Danville  today, 
according  to  B.  Drew  Robison,  club 
public  relations  officer  and  computer 
■■■  I'/iVii'  mm  ki  Page  i 


HOT  DOGS,  sold  by  Arlisls  llnlimiled,  went  fasi  lit  hungry  students  in  Ihe 
Academic  Cenler  (ACC)  las(  Wednesday.  Serving  hungry  cuslomers  arc  adverlis- 
Ing  an  students  (from  left)  Miss  Susan  M.  Eck,  of  Williamsporl;  Miss  Tina  M. 
Cavallere,  of  New  Columbia,  and  Miss  Karen  J.  Lloyd,  of  Phillpshurg.  The  club 
is  raising  funds  lo  underwrilc  an  April  field  Irip  lo  Washington,  D.C. 
ISPOTUGHT  pholo  by  Mary  L  Peasej  ^^ 


Democratic  county  chairperson  speaks  to  journalism  students 


Carol  H.  Grecvy,  chairperson  of 
the  Lycoming  County  Democratic  Party 
visited  the  Journalism  121  (Reporting 
Public  Affairs)  class  taught  by  Dr.  John 
A.  Zurlo  last  Wednesday. 

Ms.  Grcevy  discussed  the  pro- 
cedures involved  at  the  state  and  na- 
tional levels  of  party  politics. 

She  expres.sed  sadness  about  the 
public  view  that  the  youth  of  the  coun- 
try have  become  politically  apathetic 


and  stressed  the  importance  of  voter 
registration. 

In  questions  asked  about  national 
Democratic  Party  candidates  for  presi- 
dent, she  said  that  former  vice  president 
Waller  F.  Mondale  has  the  most  sup- 
port, that  Sen.  Gary  Hart  is  trying  to 
convey  a  "Kennedy  image"  with  very 
little  success,  and  that  most  people 
think,  "Sen.  John  Glenn  may  be  able  to 
fly  an  airplane  but  when  It  comes  to  oc- 


:upying  the  While  House,  they've  not  so 
sure. 


12.  In  her  final  remarks  she  commented 
that  each  vote  can  make  a  difference, 


She  stressed  the  fad  that  Lycoming    once  again  emphasizing  the  importance 
County  is  traditionally  a  Republican    of  voter  registration 


county  and  the  Democrats  are,  at  thiy 
lime,  "oul-regislcrcd  and  out-spent". 

The  deadline  for  registration  for 
Ihe  April  10  primary  is  Monday,  March 


Dr.  Zurlo  will  have  other  speakers 
talk  to  his  journalism  classes  on  a  bi- 
monthly basis  on  topics  of  interest  to 
students  in  mass  media. 


Secondary  education  students 
bring  back  eight  first'  prizes 


SWt:KPII\G  KIKST  PLACE  positions  at  Ihe  Vocational  Industrial  Clubs  of 
America  (VTCA)  dislrici  compelilions  Feb.  10  were  Ihe  following  secondary 
education  sludenls:  from  left,  Brady  L.  Breon,  machine  shop  student  from 
Jersey  Shore;  Lewis  K.  Maroni,  welding  sludenl  from  Williamsporl:  William  J. 
Worden,  drafting  sludenl  from  Blanchard;  Tony  W.  Keiser,  electrical  conslruc- 
lion  student  from  Hughesville;  Brian  J.  Hill,  electrical  construction  student  from 
Montgomery;  Annette  M.  Arthur,  drafting  student  from  Hughesville,  and  Cindy 
J.  Slykhuis,  drafting  sludenl  from  Linden.  Not  pictured  Is  Mall  S.  Wirlh.  elec- 
trical trades  student  from  Watscmtown.  jSPOTiKIHT ithiUn  hf  Mary  L.  Pca\ci 


The  Vocational  Industrial  Clubs  of 
America  (VICA)  district  competitions 
on  Friday,  Feb.  10  resulted  in  eight  first 
place  awards  going  to  students  in  the 
College's  secondary  education  pro- 
grams. 

Winners  include  Tony  W.  Keiser, 
of  Hughesville,  who  won  for  his  entry  in 
industrial  electricity;  William  J. 
Worden,  of  Blanchard,  who  won  for  his 
entry  in  machined  drafting;  Brady  L. 
Breon.  of  Jersey  Shore  RD  4,  machine 
shop  category;  Lewis  E.  Maroni,  of 
Williamsporl,' welding;  Brian  J.  Hill,  of 
^Hughesville  RD  I,  job  interview.  All  are 
seniors. 

Malt  S.  Wirth,  of  Walsontown, 
who  is  a  junior,  won  for  electrical 
trades. 

Cindy  Slykhuis,  of  Linden  RD  1, 
won  in  the  extemporaneous  speech 
category,  and  Annctle  M.  Arthur,  of 
Hughesville  RD  2,  won  in  the  job  skills 


demonstration.    Both  are  seniors. 

The  first  place  winners  will  advance 
to  state  competition  at  The  Penn- 
sylvania State  University  in  May.  Win- 
ners of  the  state  competition  will  ad- 
vance lo  Ihe  national  competition  lo  be 
held  in  Louisville,  Ky.  in  June. 

Roger  A.  Graden  wins 
PBL  Valentine  raffle 

The  winner  of  the  Phi  Beta  Lamb- 
da (PBL)  raffie  wa.s  announced  afier  the 
drawing  held  last  Tuesday,  Valentine's 
Day. 

According  to  Paul  W.  Goldfcder, 
assistant  professor  of  business  ad- 
ministrali(ni  and  club  adviser,  the  winn- 
ing ticket  bchniged  to  Roger  A.  Graden, 
computer  science  sludenl  from 
Willianisport, 

Ihe  pri/c  was  a  Valentine  Whit- 
man's Samplei  bos  of  chocolates. 


2DSP0TUGHTaTufsd«v.  Ffb.  21.  I9M 

Tot  Watch 
likely  to  be  cut: 
low  usage  cited 

...  in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

From  inlormalion  gleaned  from 
Donald  S  Shade,  direcloc  o(  financial 
aid,  who  Is  in  charge  of  the  cosi  center 
overseen  by  Dr  Charles  J  Cunning, 
associate  dean  of  educational  ser- 
vices, it  would  appear  that  Tol  Watch 
will  be  discontinued  next  year 
(1984-85) 

When  Tot  Watch  was  initiated 
about  seven  years  ago.  it  was  intended 
as  a  service  to  students  with  small 
children  and  was  also  intended  to  be 
sell-sufficient. 

Over  the  years,  expenses  con- 
nected with  Tot  Watch  have  increased 
while  student  participalion  in  the  pro- 
gram has  remained  relatively  limiled. 
At  present,  the  total  yearly  cosI  for  sup- 
porting Tot  Watch  is  $13,700  II  was 
anticipated  thai  money  brought  in  by 
the  program  would  amount  to  roughly 
$8,000,  with  the  remaining  $5,700  to 
be  provided  by  the  College  activities 
lund. 

According  to  figures  provided  by 
Shade,  last  semester  the  program 
brought  in  $3,000.  Another  $3,000.  or 
less,  is  expected  for  the  current 
semester  That,  then,  leaves  an  addi- 
tional $2,000  to  be  deducted  from  the 
College  activities  lund. 

Presently  the  facility  is  being  used 
by  14  students  and  two  stall  members 
on  an  average  o(  one  hour  and  45 
m/nutes  each  per  day. 

Last  year,  the  hourly  rate  charged 
by  Tot  Watch  was  $1  lor  lull-time 
students  and  $1  50  for  part-lime 
students.  During  the  fall  semester,  the 
rate  was  raised  to  $1,25  for  full-time 
sludents  and  $1.75  lor  part-lime 
students  But,  since  part-lime  students 
now  also  are  paying  a  College  activity 
tee,  it  was  decided  their  hourly  rate 
should  be  the  same  as  that  of  full-time 
students;   $125 

Although  it  is  regrettable  to  lose 
the  vital  services  of  Tol  Watch,  it  is 
considered  by  many  to  be  unavoidable 
since  the  College  activities  lunds  could 
be  spent  elsewhere  to  Ihe  benelit  ol 
many  sludents  rather  than  ol  a  few 

Despite  lost  satellite, 
NASA  deserves 
continued  support 

...  In  Ihe  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

The  National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration  (NASA)  was 
lounded  in  1914.  NASA  is  responsible 
loi  the  development  ol  advanced  avia- 
tion and  space  technology  and  also  lor 
space  exploration 

Through  all  these  developments, 
the  American  people  cheered  Now, 
suddenly  when  one  satellite  is  lost, 
people  begin  complaining. 

Alter  all  these  achievements,  a 
mistake  is  bound  to  happen 
Americans  should  back  NASA  and  let 
NASA  know  that  we  still  stand  behind 
them  in  continuation  ol  the  develop- 
ment ol  Ihe  United  Slates  space  pro- 
gram 


Stuart  Shift's 
Death  contains 
a  multitude 
of  fiorror 

book  review  by  Oonna  M.  Barnelt 

"There  are  many  ways  to  die  All 
ol  Ihem  unpleasani  You  can  be 
devoured,  cursed,  poisoned,  bedevil- 
ed, loriured.  drugged,  or  Iranslormed 
Which  one  would  you  preler^  Not  ihai 
you  have  a  choice    " 

Editor  Stuart  Schill  had  the  right 
idea  when  he  printed  the  above 
message  on  the  back  cover  ol  Death,  a 
237-page  collection  ol  short  horror 
stones  There's  not  a  better  way  to 
describe  this  book 

One  ol  my  lavoriie  stories  in  Death 
IS  one  by  Britain's  most  lamous  lantast. 
Lord  Dunsany  The  siory.  Two  Bottles 
ol  Relish.  IS  a  real  shocker 

As  Ihe  slory  goes,  a  man  and  a 
woman  had  been  living  together  for 
quite  sometime,  one  day,  the  woman 
disappears  The  man  said  she  left  the 
country  with  relatives  II  sounds 
legitimate,  but  Smithers.  a  traveling 
salesman,  doesn't  think  so 

What  does  this  have  to  do  with 
two  jars  ol   relish"?   I'll  never  tell 

A  Telephone  Booth  by  Wade  Ken- 
ny will  cure  anyone  who  "likes  to  bet 
on  the  horses  a  little"  Alter  reading 
this  slory.  It  look  me  a  while  to  gel  up 
Ihe  courage  to  use  a  pay  telephone 
again 

My  favorite  short  story  in  Death  is 
Always  Together  by  Hugh  B  Cave 
The  whole  process  by  which  a  lillle  old 
lady  goes  about  killing  and  ridding 
heisell  ol  her  twin  sister  makes  me 
wonder  why  I  didn't  try  thai  ori  my 
brother  years  agol 

The  $2  50  lor  this  paperback  was 
worth  it  You  can  lind  it  at  almost  any 
bookslore  Just  look  for  a  bookcover 
with  a  skull  with  a  protruding  eye,  a 
gaping  mouth  and  Ihe  words.  Death:  II 
won't  be  Irom  old  age 


Winter  Olympics  lack  US  medals; 
second  week  should  be  better 

television  review  by  Rodney  D.  Hili 


ABC's  coverage  ol  the  14in 
Winter  Olympic  games  at  Sarajevo, 
Yugoslavia  has  probably  been  boring 
to  most  Americans  because  ol 
postponements  and  the  unexpected 
perlormance  of  the  Olympians 

The  games  got  under  way  last 
Tuesday  with  the  United  States  playing 
the  Canadians  in  hockey 

The  American  team  lost,  4-2,  in 
a  sluggish  style  of  play 

Wednesday  was  Ihe  mghi  of  in- 
teresting and  colorful  opening 
ceremonies  We  also  saw  a  preview  ol 
all  Ihe  top  contenders  and  hopeluls  in 
the  individual  events 

Thursday's  main  attraction  was 
hockey  once  again,  with  Ihe  Uniied 
Stales  tailing  to  the  lough 
Czechoslovakian  team  by  a  4-1 
count  That  dimmed  the  United  Slates' 
cliance  ol  getting  to  the  medal  round 
Friday's  coverage  included  events 
such  as  the  luge,  Ihe  30-kilomeler 
cross-country  race,  and  the  two-man 
bobsled  The  event  ol  pairs  figure 
skating  caught  my  interest- 
Kitty  and  Peter  Carruthers  are  a 
brother  and  sister  pair  Irom  Wilm- 
ington. Del 

After  Ihe  first  round,  many  lans 
and  viewers  cheered  Ihem  on  because 
of  their  performance,  but  the  judges' 
scoring  was  not  in  Iheir  favor  The 
scores  were  unfair  and  too  low 


ABC  commeritators  asked  the  top 
couple  from  ihe  Uriiied  Siaies  how 
they  fell  about  Iheir  scores 

Peter  said,  "I  don't  care  aboul  the 
scores  It's  just  being  here  and  seeing 
Ihe  crowd's  response  in  support  ol  us  " 

Kiiiy  added.  "If  I  could,  I  would 
kiss  every  American  present  " 

The  American  spirii  displayed  dur- 
ing ihe  skating  made  the  burden  of  Hie 
lodges'  decision  a  Im  easier 

On  Saturday,  the  American 
hockey  team's  chance  ol  getting  to  the 
medal  round  was  spoiled  by  a  lie  with  a 
weak  leam  Irom  Norway 

The  most  promising  event  for  Ihe 
Americans  on  Saturday  was  the  pairs 
ice  dancing  leam  of  Judy  Blumberg 
and  Michael  Seibert  of  ihe  Uniied 
Slates  At  this  writing,  they  were  in 
Iliird  place 

On  Sunday,  the  Carrutherses 
skated  to  a  silver  medal  in  a  llawless 
perlormance  in  the  pairs  ligure  skating. 
The  medal  was  the  lirst  for  the  United 
Stales 

Alter  the  second  round  ol  pairs  ice 
dancing,  Judy  Blumberg  and  Michael 
Seibert  remained,  at  this  writing,  in 
ihird  place. 

The  United  Stales  has  the  largesi 
group  ol  athletes  at  the  games,  so 
maybe  the  second  week  of  coverage 
will  be  a  little  more  exciting  -  because 
the  events  Itiemselves  will,  hopefully, 
be  more  exciting. 


Todd 
ikle. 


M 
auto 


mechanics  student 
fiom  Spring  Mills 
"I  would  go  30 
years  forward  I'd 
like  to  see  if  I  made 
the  right  career 
choice  and  see 
how  I  did  for 
myself " 


George  F 
Flade.  auto  body 
repair  student  Irom 
Canton:  "Forward 
for  10  years,  I 
would  tike  to  see 
Ihe  changes  in  rock 
music  " 

Wayne  A  La- 
Monl,  auto  body 
repair  student  from 
Canton  "I  would 
go  forward  lor  10 
years  to  see  what 
the  cars  would  look 
like" 


Whaddya' 
say...  ? 

Due  to  photomeclianical  dif- 
ficulties, ttie  Whaddya  Say  pictures 
are  not  listed  with  ttiis  week's 
responses. 

John  W  Cum- 
mings,  auto  body 
repair  student  Irom 
Tioga:  "I  would  go 
lorward  lor  three 
years  to  see  how 
Ihe  limes  would 
change." 


Question:  If  you  could  be 
transported  in  a  time  mactiine, 
would  you  go  forward  or  backward  in 
time?   For  how  long?   Why? 


Location: 
Trade  Center 


Parkes    Automotive 


Photos  by  iVIary  L.  Pease 
Text  by  (Mark  S.  Schwanke 


Darren  J  Kit- 
chen, auto  body 
repair  student  from 
Canton:  "I  would 
go  five  years  foi- 
ward  to  see  the 
changes  tliat  take 
place  in  music  and 
culture  " 


Robert  A 
Kipp.  auto  body 
repair  siudenl  from 
Dushore  "For- 
ward for  200  years 
I'd  like  10  see  what 
things  would  be 
like  in  Ihe  fuiui^e  " 


Steven       M 
Yost.  auto 

mechariics  student 


Avis: 


John 


Her 


W 
auto 
mechanics  student 
from  Mill  Hall: 
"Forward  for  50 
years  I  warn  to 
see  the  changes  in 
Ihe  auto  Indusiry  " 


would  go 

backward  to  1957 
I  liked  the  cars,  the 
music,  and  we 
didn't  have  the  pro- 
blems we  have  to- 
day " 


SPOTLIGHT 
Tuesday.  Fab.  21.  19(4    -    Vol.  19,  No.  23 

Ttie  SPOTLIGHT  is  published  eacti  l^onday 
morning  ol  the  academic  yeai,  except  lor  Col- 
lege vacations,  by  louinalism  and  olher  in- 
teresled  sludents  ot  The  Wiliiamspurl  Aiea  Com- 
munily  College 

Otfice:    Room  7,  Academic  Cenler.  1005 
W      Thud    SI,     Williamspoil,     Pa      17701 
Telephone   1717)  326-3761,  Exiension  221 


Opinions  expiessed  aie  those  ol  the  sliident 
newspaper  oi  ot  those  whose  names  accom- 
pany Items  Opinions  do  not  letiecl  olticial  opi- 
nion of  the  inslltlilion 


THE  STAFF 

Joan  L  Thompson,  Managing  Fdilof 

Periy  D.  Pentz,  Fdiioiial  Page  Fdilor 

Thomas  F   Monlgomeiy,  Production  Supervisor 

Maiy  L   Pease,  Photography  fdilor 

Annelle  M   Engel,  Composition  Manager 

Thomas  H   Long,  Admmislralive  Attairs  Editor 

Kay  tvt   Frace.  Student  Attairs  Fdilor 

Giseia  0  Giasstey.  Advertising  Manager 

Lon  M   Lane,  Sports  Fdtlor 

Baibi  L   Chilson,  Pholo  Technician 

Gregory  W.  Hull,  Senior  Slatt  Winer 

Iwliiriay  J   l-ianloid,  Sl.itt  Aitist 


REPORTERS/STAFF  ASSOCIATES 

RichaidE  Kopp  Jr  ,  Donna  M  Bainell,  fylar- 
cy  L  Caid,  Kathleen  R  Foreman,  Kalluyn  M 
Gilbeil.  Roberl  O  Hawk,  Rodney  D  Hill,  Lon  L 
Holland,  Robeit  W.  fyliniei,  Kalhy  A  Meixel, 
Anne  T   lytoialeili,  James  K,  tylornssey,  Maik  S 


Production  Staff  This  Issue 

Lon  L    Holland,  Kalhy  A   fvleixel,  J, 
tvloifissey.  and  fylaik  S   Schwanke 


SPOTLIGHT  !Tue«d«y,  Krt.  21.  I9MI  iS 


Blitzkriek  shoots      CU-JO  continues  rampage;  conquers  three  opponents 
record  upward 


Blil.rkrick  raised  llicir  record  lo 
Ihrce  wins,  no  losses  in  the  five-on-fivc 
baskclball  aclion  last  week,  defeaiing 
R.T.  &  T.,  62  1(1  45,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli.  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

In  other  hoop  aclion,  Ihc  612 
Globclrollers  defeated  Ihc  Tarheels,  56 
to  32. 

Tomorrow,  the  RumDumLuckers 
will  play  R.T.  &  T.  at  8  p.m.  and  the 
Hcmcr-roidz  will  play  Blitzkriek  at  9 
p.m.  in  the  Bardo  Gym,  said  Mrs. 
Frcmiotti. 

This  Wednesday,  the  Rum- 
DumLuckers will  play  the  76ers  at  8 
p.m.  and  the  612  Globetrotters  will  play 
the  Yuckaianncrs  ai  9  p.m. 

The  week's  end  team  standings  for 
the  fivc-on-five  league  arc: 

Division  A 
Team  Wins    Losses 


CU-JO  continued  on  its  rampage  in 
the  intramural  bowling  league  by  winn- 
ing three  games  last  Tuesday,  Feb.  14. 
The  wins  increase  llicir  record  lo  12 
wins  and  Ihrce  losses,  according  to 
records  provided  by  ABC  Bowling 
Lanes. 

The  results  from  ihe  intramural 
bowling  action  are: 

Team  standings 


Team 

1.  CU-JO 

2.  Destroyers 

3.  Head  Pins 

4.  High  Rollers  (lie) 

4.  Cillo-Elts  (lie) 

5.  Boneheads 

6.  Dew  Crew 

7.  Mad  Halters 

8.  Unprediclables 

9.  Flinlslones 

10.  Bandits  (lie) 
10.  No  Names  (tie) 


Wins  Losses 


R.T.  &  T. 

76ers 

Hemer-roidz 
Tarheels 
Yuckaianncrs 

Division  B 
Blitzkriek 
Bums 

Iceberg  Bombers 
612  Globelrollcrs 
RumDumLuckers 


..     Raffle  to  be  held 
to  raise  funds 
for  field  trip 

The  Agribusiness  Club  will 
begin  a  raffle  lomorrow  lo  help 
raise  money  for  a  spring  field  Irip 
lo  Corning,  N.Y.,  according  lo 
Larry  A.  Swariz,  club  president. 

The  drawing  will  be  held 
March  14.  Prizes  are:  First, 
Kodak  Disc  camera;  second, 
long-sleeve  cotton  shirl;  third, 
dinner  at  Elby's  Restaurant; 
fourth  and  fifth.  United  Artisis' 
movie  passes,  and  sixth,  five 
pounds  of  ground  chuck. 

Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Today  (Tuesday) 

Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 

Bowling. ..4  to  6  p.m. 

Volleyball.. .4:30    to    7:30    p.m. 
(schedule  posted  in  gymnasium) 

Baskclball  league. ..8  lo  10  p.m. 
Wednesday,  Feb.  22 

Weight  room. ..4  to  10  p.m. 

Volleyball. ..4:30    lo    7:.30    p.m. 
(schedule  posted  in  gymnasium) 

Basketball  league. ..8  to  10  p.m. 
Thursday,  Feb.  23 

Weighl  room. ..4  lo  10  p.m. 

Indoor  soccer. ..4  in  5;.W  p.m. 

Vollcyl);ill...5:.10  m  7:.W  p.m. 


12 

11 

10 

9 

9 
8'/: 

8 

7 
4'/i 

4 

2 

2 


3 
4 
5 
6 
6 

6'/2 

7 
8 

10  1/2 

II 
13 
13 


Men's  high  singles 

Franklin  J.  Seber.  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranlon, 
bowled  a  254. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration student  from 
Fredericksburg,  bowled  a  211. 

Mark    E.    Reamsnydcr,    business 
management        student        from 
Williamsport,  bowled  a  203. 
Women's  high  singles 

Dcnise  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport, 
bowled  a  162. 

Cindy  M.  Cekovich,  floricuhurc 
student  from  Mechanicsburg,  bowled  a 
161. 

Lori  M.  Lane,  journalism  student 
from  South  Williamsport,  bowled  a 
150. 

High  team  singles 

Destroyers,  889. 
_^a^O^M^_^^^^^^^^^ 


Dew  Crew,  837. 

Men's  high  singles 

Seber.  687. 
Zohn,  554. 
Reamsnydcr,  537. 

Women's  high  series 

Cekovich,  415. 

Dcnise  M.  King,  secretarial  science 
sludcnl  from  Cogan  Station,  404. 
McNeil.  396. 

High  team  series 
Deslroycrs,  2,452. 
Head  Pins.  2,370. 
CU-JO,  2,355. 

High  averages 

Seber,  214. 

Reamsnydcr,  203. 

Doug  E.  Mayer,  business  manage- 
ment sludcnl  from  Williamsporl,  187. 

Zohn,  186. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical  coti- 
ilruclion  sludcnl  frimi  Shohola.  170. 


Sutton  scores  game  high   im  voiieybaii 

Tom  C.  McNamee,  business  manage-  rCSUllS   llStCQ 

The  results  from  last  Monday's  in- 


Richard  A.  Sullon,  carpentry  con- 
struction student  from  Towanda,  spark- 
ed the  Wildcat's  victory  ending  the 
season  with  the  game  high  of  35. 

The  Wildcats  dominated  the 
Lycoming  College  JV  team  with  a  final 
score  of  103-91,  according  to  Coach 
Louis  J.  Menago,  assistant  professor  of 
machine  shop. 

"Besides  being  high  scorer,  Sutton 
shot  75  percent,  had  13  rebounds  and 
12  assists,"  added  Menago. 

Other  team  members  who  scored  in 
double  figures  in  last  Tuesday's  game 
were  Jon  D.  Ehly,  food  and  hospitality 
student  from  East  Berlin  with  17  points; 


meni  student  from  Williamsporl,   16 

and  Charles  E.  Johnson,  automotive  ,     ,.    i.  n 

technology  student  from  Williamsport,  '^^'^"^'''  ™"^^„'',!"l7;, 

14   points   and   nine   rebounds,   said 

Menago. 


The  Wildcats  also  added  a  lillle 
ilame  lo  Ihe  fire  with  the  performance  of 
Timothy  A.  Rodgers,  broadcasting  stu- 
dent from  Boyertown.    Rodgers  scored 


one  goal  with  a  spcclacular  Iwo-handed    p   i    d   h    ' 


Male  division 

Straub  Grecnies  over  Phislamma- 
jamma,  besl  of  three. 

The  Bums  over  the  Boar,  best  of 
three. 

Killerwalts  over  Atomic  Power, 
best  of  three. 

Chickebasers  won  by  forfeit  ove? 


jam. 

The  season  was  ended  with  a 
record  of  four  wins  and  14  losses  by  the 
Wildcat  cagers. 


PBL  members,  faculty  do  battle 
Thursday  night  in  Bardo  Gym 

Phi    Beta    Lambda    (PBL)    club   .science  student  from  Williamsporl. 
members  will  play  Ihe  facully  in  ihe  an-  Michael  R.  Davis,  accounting  slu- 

nual     PBL-facully     basketball     game   dcnl  from  Monloursvillc. 
Thursday  in  the  Bardo  Gym.  Michael     C.     Losicwicz,     retail 

According  lo  David  A.  Haas,  club   management  student  fnmi  Shamokin. 
president  and  computer  science  sludcnl 
from  Williamsporl,  Ihc  game  lime  Icii- 
lalivcly  is  8  p.m. 

Haas  added,  "We  hope  lo  make  a 
ccmicback  from  last  year  when  we  lost 
lo  the  facully  by  a  single  point." 

Team  members  will  include  Haas 
and: 

Jonathan     F.     Miller,     compulcr 


Paul  H.  Pauling,  accounting  stu- 
dent from  Monlg(niiery. 

John  D.  Boyce,  compulcr  science 
Sludcnl  fr(nii  Roaring  Branch. 

Anybody  with  qucsli(nis  about  ihe 
game  should  contact  the  PBL  office. 
Room  333,  Academic  Center  (ACC), 
Haas  said. 


"Where's  The  Beef?" 
Wooly's  Place 

234  Park  Si.    Ph:     326-7983 

Try  our  all-beef 
Cheeseburger  Sub 

30  cents  off  whole  Cheeseburger  Sub 
with  this  ad  on  2-22-84 


The  Inductors  over  Brown  House 
11,  best  of  three. 

IPT  over  the  Ball  Bangers,  best  of 
three. 

Straub  Greenics  over  Bums,  best  of 
three. 

Killerwalts  over  Chickchasers,  best 
of  three. 

IPT  over  Inductors,  best  of  three. 

Straub  Grecnies  over  Killerwalts, 
best  of  Ihrce. 

Straub  Grecnies  over  IPT,  besl  of 
three. 

BadmiiKon  team  rosters 
now  available  in  gym 

Inlramural  badminum  team  rosters 
are  available  now  in  Room  108,  gym- 
nasium. Deadline  for  rosters  lo  be 
relumed  is  next  Monday,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator 
of  inlramural  alhlctics  and  College  ac- 
livilies. 

Prc-lournameni  clinics  will  start 
next  week.  Anyinie  interested  may  sign 
up  in  the  inlramural  alhlelics  and  Col- 
lege adivilics  office  in  Bardo  Gym,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

Computer  Science  Club 

.    Cnniiimed/mii  Page  /■■■ 

.science  sludcnl  from  Duncansvillc. 

"Those  who  have  signed  up  lo  go 

!  must   meet   in   front  of  the  Learning 

Resources  Center  jusl  before  2  p.m. 

because  we  will  dcparl  from  llicrc  al  2 

p.m.,"  said  Robis<n\. 

"The  sliidcnis  will  rciurii  ai  6 
p.ni."  he  said. 


4nSP0TLIGHT  iTursdai.  Keh.  21.  I9H4 

BULLETIN  BOARD 

Fnr  week  iil  Moiiilay.  Fvh.  20  l/iriiiigli  Sumlay.  Feb.  26 
ACTIVITIES 

Skiing  at  Oregon  Hill...  This  Wednesday,  wcaihcr  pcrmilling.  Bus  leaves 
Learning  Resources  Cenler  al  5:30  p.m.  and  rclurns  al  10  p.m.  Musi  sign  up  in  IM 
OfTice,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym. 

Chris/ian  Stephens  Concert...  7  p.m.  tomorrow  in  llie  Aeadcmic  Cenler 
Audilorium.  Advanced  lickel  prices  are  $1  lo  College  sludenls  wilh  ID;  $1.50, 
public.   All  lickels  al  ihe  door  are  $2. 

Women's  Forum  Coffee...  8  lo  9  p.m.  lomorrow,  Academic  Cenler  Lounge. 
Any  inlfrcsled  persons  arc  invilcd.    No  fee. 

Ice  Skating...  This  Thursday  al  Ihe  Sunbury  Communily  Youlh  Cenler, 
wealhcr  pcrmilling.  Bus  leaves  LRC  al  5:.W  p.m.  and  rclurns  al  9  p.m.  Musi  sign 
up  in  IM  Office,  Room  108,  Bardo  (iym.    Skale  renlals,  50  cenls. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship  Volleyball...  This  Sunday  from  2  lo  6  p.m.  Musi 
sign  up,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym.    Anyone  inleresled  may  play. 


Patricia  Zaccaria 
wins  sorority  raffle 

As  firsl  prize  winner  in  the  raffle 
held  by  Sigma  Pi  Omega,  Patricia  A. 
Zaccaria,  food  and  hospitality  student 
from  Williamsport,  won  a  night  of 
enlcrlainmeni  for  two. 

The  night's  enlerlainment  includes 
dinner  at  the  Hillside  Restaurant,  two 
UA  Theatre  tickets  and  $10  worth  of 
gas. 

Second  prize,  a  dinner  al  Ihe 
Hillside,  wa.s  won  by  Ms.  Patty  A. 
WiLson,  who  is  not  a  student  and  whose 
address  was  unavailable. 

Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  journalism,  drew  the  winning 
tickels.  Mrs.  Doreen  W.  Shopc, 
associate  professor  of  business,  and 
Shcryl  K.  Avery,  a  dietetic  technician 
student  from  Troy  and  president  of  the 
sorority,  supervised  Ihe  drawing. 


Gene  R.  Mader 
wins  first  prize 
in  club's  drawing 

The  winning  lickel  in  last  week's 
Computer  .Science  Club  raffle  was  held 
by  Gene  R.  Mader,  food  and  hospitality 
student  from  Flemington. 

Madcr's  ticket  was  drawn  al  12:30 
p.m.  last  Tuesday  by  Thomas  C. 
Leilzcl,  a.ssislani  director  of  the 
Business  "and  Computer  Science  Divi- 
sion. 

According  lo  B.  Drew  Robison, 
club  public  relations  officer,  and  com- 
puter science  sludcnl  from  Dun- 
cansville,  Mader  received  a  ihree- 
pound,  heart-shaped  box  of  assorted 
chocolates. 

"Two  hundred  and  sixty  lickels 
were  sold  al  ihe  raffle,"  said  Robison. 


Creative 
Kitchen 

Wednesday.  Feb.  22 

Chilled  Crcme  of  Cherry  Soup 
Super  SlulTed  Pork  Chops 


Stuffed  Chicken  Breasts 

.served  <ni  a  Bed  of  Long  Grain 

and  Wild  Rice  wilh  Pan  Gra\y 

French  Cut  Green  Beans 

wilh  MushrocuTis 

Sweet  and  Sour  Broccoli  Salad 

Rye  or  Whole  Wheal  Rolls 

Assorted  Tarllels 

Thursday,  Feb.  23 

Egg  Drop  Soup 
Mandarin  Salad 
Shredded  Pork 
in  Peking  Sauce 

or 

Chicken  Slices 

wilh  Snow  Peas 

Rice 

Pork  and  Shrimp  Egg  Rolls 

Ginger  Cookies  [  irili  Fruit  Cup 

or 

SwccI  Filled  Woiilons 

Coffee,  tea,  iced  lea,  milk, 
and  water  served  wilh  all  meals. 
Meals  cosi  $3.  Soups  served  wilh 
homemade  rolls  and  desserts  are  a 
la  carte. 


Deadline  nears  to  nominate 

for  Distinquished  Teaching  Award; 

students,  alumni,  others  may  nominate 


Less  than  two  weeks  remain  lo  sub- 
mit nominations  for  the  1984  Distin- 
quished Teaching  Awards,  according  to 
Dr.  Robert  G.  Bowers,  execulive  assis- 
tant for  internal  affairs. 

The  deadline  for  subinissicni  of 
nominations  is  Thursday,  March  I. 

The  annual  awards  -  presented  al 
Ihe  College's  May  commencement 
-recognize  Ihe  oulslanding  performance 
of  leaching  faculty  who  demonstrate  ex- 
cellence in  inslruclion  and  who  provide 
oulslanding  service  lo  students. 

Students,  faculty,  administration, 
alumni  and  other  members  of  Ihe  com- 
munily who  have  direct  knowledge  of  a 
person's  instructional  work  al  the  Col- 
lege my  nominate. 

Sludenls  were  reminded  last  week 
that  in  order  lo  nomitiale  a  person  of 
Iheir   choice,    they    must    fill    out    a 


nominating  form.  The  forms  are 
available  al  various  locations  around 
the  campus  as  well  as  in  Dr.  Bowers'  of- 
fice, Room  207,  Administration 
Building. 

Afier  all  Ihe  nominations  are 
reviewed  by  the  Selection  Commillee, 
that  commillee's  recommendation  is 
presented  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Brcuder, 
College  prci.sdenl. 

A  booklcl  describing  the  details  of 
the  awards  and  nominalion  forms  is 
available  to  Iho.se  in  the  community  by 
contacting  Dr.  Bowers  al  326-3761,  Ext. 
305. 

CASSETTE  PLAYER  FOR  SALE 
Audiovox;  7  Walt-per-channei;  under- 
dash  mouni,  needs  some  lapehead 
work,  but  slill  plays.  Firsl  $5  lakes  it! 
Call  ExI.  221  or  come  In  Ihe 
SPOTLIGHT  office,  ACC  basemenl. 
Ask  for  Tom. 


{ Student  special!  | 

J  This  week  at  Bartholomew's  Bakery  | 


63  attend,  give 
favorable  response 
to  Chris  Rohmann 

Sixty-lhrec  persons  turned  out  to 
see  singer/writer  Chris  Rohiiiann's 
mullimedia  shows,  "Wild  West 
Willard"  and  "Technicolor  Dreams", 
according  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli, 
coordinator  of  intramural  alhlelics  and 
College  activities. 

The  shows  premiered  in  the 
Academic  Cenler  Auditorium  al  6:30 
p.m.  and  8  p.m.,  Thursday,  Feb.  9. 

"Technicolor  Dreams"  is  what 
Rohmann  calls  his  award-winning 
multimedia  music  show.  It  was  a  show 
of  original  folk-rock  songs,  easy-going, 
Ihoughl-provoking,  and  laced  with 
humor,  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

"Wild  West  Willard"  was  a  unique 
enlerlainment  which  expands  the 
multimedia  ideas  developed  for 
"Technicolor  Dreams",  she  said. 

Mrs.  Fremiolli  said  both  perfor- 
mances went  "very  well".  She  said 
there  were  many  favorable  responses 
which  she  received  by  phone  and  mail. 

All-male  society  decides 
(again)  lo  bar  women 

Wolfs  Head,  one  of  Ihe  three  re- 
maining all-male  clubs  left  on  the  Yale 
campus  has  decided,  according  to  Col- 
lege Press  Service,  lo  keep  women  out. 

The  decisi<ni  was  made  by  alumni 
vote  last  month. 

Students  involved 
in  Health  Week 

lAddilional  reports  next  weekj 

By  Kay  M.  Frace 

Sludenl  Affairs  Editor 

"Last  week,  as  we  all  know,  was  Health  Week  at  the  College,"  said  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolli,  coordinator  of  intramural  alhlelics  and  College  aclivilics. 

Throughoul  the  week,  discussions  were  held  and  slide  prcsenlalions  were 
shown  on  such  lopics  as  anorexia  nervosa,  the  world  hunger  project,  epilepsy,  and 
diabetes. 

Eighty-six  people  allciidcd  Ihe  slide  presentation  on  anorexia  nervosa,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiolli.    It  was  shown  last  Monday  in  the  audilorium  from  1  to  2  p.m. 

Last  Tuesday,  over  100  people  had  their  blood  pressures  taken  by  nursing  and 
denial  hygiene  sludenls. 

The  following  nursing  sludenls  look  part  in  doing  Ihe  screenings:  Margaret  A. 
Englerl,  Caslanea;  Lelilia  N.  Bonner,  Jersey  Shore;  Karen  M.  Casale, 
Williamsport;  Joanne  L.  Messick,  Williamsport;  Sheri  L.  Schwank,  Monloursville; 
Geraldinc  R.  Wyble,  Lock  Haven;  Debra  L.  Barbicr,  Montgomery;  Genie  L. 
Howland,  Trout  Run,  and  Joan  C.  Wirlh,  Jersey  Shore. 

Denial  hygiene  students  involved  were  Holly  A.  Rohrer,  Girard;  Reba  L 
Lengel,  Mechanicsburg;  Stephanie  A.  Crimbly,  Mechanicsburg,  and  Patricia  M. 
Wilkins,  Lock  Haven. 

Mrs.  Fremiolli  said  some  students  signed  up  lo  slarl  a  County  Health  Im- 
provement Program  (CHIP)  al  the  College  and  were  especially  interested  in  starting 
a  slop  smoking  program.    "There  will  be  a  follow-up  on  this,"  she  said. 

A  large  crowd  was  expected  to  attend  Thursday's  and  Friday's  discussions  on 
epilepsy  and  diabetes. 

"All  in  all,  we  have  gotten  very  positive  feedback  and  were  also  glad  lo  .see 
communily  people  involved  in  Health  Week,"  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 

All  events  were  free  and  open  lo  all  College  sludenls,  faculty,  staff,  as  well  as 
the  C(niMnunily.  said  Mrs.  Fremiolli. 


pudding  filled  ECLAIRS 
only  25  cents  with  student  ID 

1172  Wes(  4lh  SI.,  Williamsporl,  Ph.  322-6041 


DID  YOU  FIND  IT? 
LOST:  dark  brown,  Iri-fold,  wallet  on 
Susquehanna  Sireel.     It  found,  tall 
Charles  Elder  at  327-1802  before  8 
p.m. 


RING  LOST 
A    gold-colored    ring,    wilh    initials 
PWM,  was  lost  on  campus.  Sentimen- 
tal value  onlv.     If  found,  call  Patty 
Wilkins  al  College  Kxl.  407. 


SPOTLIGHT 

Moidi;,  00.  i,  1«M    •    Vol.  »,  No.  25    •    4  Pi|(> 

WflUMUiMNl  Arm  Conaiiltr  CoQcfe    •    WObimipofl,  Pi.  17701 


Wacc 


ARCH/VES 


iP^^^i 


Spotlight  '86  staff 

assignments  finalized 


Patrick  J.  Tranzo,  MiTke  ind  opendon  of  hetvy  conitnictioD  eqalpmenl  ita- 
dent  from  Brockport,  worki  on  topsoil  rtplicement  Job  tt  Third  ind  Su- 
qDchimii  Strteti.  [SPOTLIGHT  pholoj 


Management  and  other  staff 
assignmenu  for  The  SPOTLIGHT, 
student-operated  newspaper  at  the  Col- 
lege, have  been  made,  according  to  An- 
thony N.  Cillo,  faculty  adviser. 

Kathy  L.  Cobb,  individual  studies 
student  ftom  Williamspott,  officially 
assumes  the  position  of  managing 
editor.  Ms.  Cobb  was  instrumental,  ac- 
cording to  the  adviser,  in  maintaining 
operation  of  the  student  newspaper  dur- 
ing the  sununer  and  during  early- 
semester  reorganization. 

Brenda  M.  ^Vibert,  individual 
studies  student  from  Muncy,  is  associate 
editor.  Her  responsibilities  include 
College  activities  coverage  as  well  as 
coordinating  news  of  student  clubs  and 
organizations.  Cillo  said  that  Ms. 
Vibert  was  another  of  the  students  who 
"greatly  helped  during  the  ongoing 
reorganization". 

Donna  L.  Trimble,  individual 
studies  student  from  Cogan  Station,  is 
photosraphy  editor.  Mrs.  Trimble,  ac- 
cording to  the  adviser,  "is  still  another 
of  that  group  which  dedicated  itself  to 
reorganization". 

Reorganizitloii  ongoing 

The  adviser  pointed  out  that 
reorganization  of  the  student  newspaper 
wiU  continue  this  semester. 

Other  staff  members  and  positions 

College  activities 
coordinator  to  visit 


to  which  they  are  assigned  include 
Michael  Waldron,  a  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Muncy,  advertising 
director;  Margaret  M.  DiNardo, 
graphic  arts  student  from  Johnsonburg, 
production  manager;  Lisa  R.  Lumbard, 
general  studies  student  from 
Williamsport,  chief  compositor; 
Catherine  A.  Hannon,  journalism  stu- 
dent from  Sayre,  staff  associate. 

Ruth  Ann  Hixson,  journalism  stu- 
dent from  New  Columbia,  staff  writer; 
Marc  Varano,  broadcasting  student 
from  Sunbury,  staff  associate;  Todd 
Patterson,  technical  illustration  student 
from  Bellwood,  staff  artist;  Janine  M. 
Sullivan,  advertising  art  student  from 
Cumbola,  staff  artist;  Diane  L. 
Shaheen,  individual  studies  student 
from  Williamsport,  advertising 
designer,  and  Margaret  Flanagan, 
broadcasting  student  from  Conemaugb, 
staff  associate. 

Relilcd  podtioni 

Related  to  tXtS  assignments,  the 
adviser  said,  was  (he  reofganizalion 
election  by  the  student  board  of  direc- 
tors. In  that  action,  Ms.  Cobb  was  in- 
stalled as  chairperson;  Mrs.  Trimble, 
vice  chairperson;  Waldron,  treasurer, 
and  Ms.  Hixson,  secretary. 


SGA  elects  two  students        North  campus 

as  reps  on  College  Council 


Two  second-year  students  were 
elected  by  the  Student  Government 
Association  during  last  week's  Senate 
meeting  to  serve  on  the  Internal  Gover- 
nance System  College  Council  for  the 
1986-1987  academic  year,  according  to 
Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rhone,  SGA  adviser. 

Kathy  L.  Cobb,  individual  studies 


Governance  listing 
to  be  given  next  week 

A  complete  Usting  of  students, 
faculty,  and  staff  who  were  elected  or 
appointed  to  Governance  System  com- 
mittees and  the  College  Council  will  ap- 
pear in  next  week's  issue  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT. 


student  from  Williamsport,  and  James 
T.  Corle,  nursery  management  student 
from  New  Enterprise,  will  serve  as 
Council  members. 

Ms.  Cobb  also  serves  as  treasurer 
for  the  SGA  and  is  managing  editor  of 
The  SPOTLIGHT. 

Corle  is  program 

development/evaluation  officer  for  the 
SGA  and  is  also  a  member  of  the  Hor- 
ticulture Gub. 

The  College  Council  will  serve  as 
an  umbrella  structure  within  the  Gover- 
nance System  and  will  review  recom- 
mendations and  reports  put  forth  by  the 
Governance  Committees  and  will  for- 
ward that  information  to  the  College 
president.  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder. 


Ms.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  College  activities,  will  visit 
the  North  Campus  this  Thursday  to 
discuss  setting  up  a  Student  Government 
Association  and  student  activities  pro- 
gram for  the  students  on  that  campus. 

Ms.  Janet  L.  Napp,  legal 
secretarial  student  from  Covington,  in- 
vites all  interested  students  to  attend  the 
session  which  is  scheduled  to  be  held  at 
noon  in  the  student  lounge. 

SGA  dance  Wednesday 

The  Student  Government  Association  will  sponsor  a  dance  from  9  to  11:30 
p.m.  this  Wednesday  in  the  Susquehanna  Room,  according  to  William  J.  Fritz, 
SGA  president. 

"There  is  no  charge  to  any  student  (of  the  College)  who  wishes  to  attend," 
he  said,  adding  that  the  only  requirement  is  a  validated  ID  card. 

Fritz  said  music  will  be  provided  by  WW  AS,  the  campus  student-operated 
radio  station. 

Fritz  is  a  plumbing  and  heating  student  from  Homer  City. 


Fire  College  Weekend 
held  over  weekend 

Fire  College  Weekend,  an  an- 
nual two-day  training  session  for 
area  firefighters,  was  to  be  held 
this  past  Saturday  and  Sunday, 
Oct.  4  and  3  at  the  College  and 
other  locations  throughout  the 
community. 

Fire  College  Weekend  was 
sponsored  by  the  Central  Area 
Fire  Chiefs'  Association,  the  Col- 
lege, and  the  Lycoming  County 
Department  of  Emergency  Ser- 
vices. 

Coverage  will  be  carried  in 
next  week's  issue  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT. 


ZDSPOTUGBTDMndi;,  Oct.  i,  IM( 

•Help  Us  Help  YOU'  says  SGA 

A  Lattar  to  SPOTLIGHT  RMdar* 

We,  the  people  of  the  College  Student  Government  Association,  need  stu- 
dent participation  at  our  meetings  -  which  are  held  every  other  Tuesday  at  5 
p.m.  In  Room  B107,  Lifelong  Education  Center 

A  government,  any  government,  can  only  be  as  strong  as  the  people  II 
represents. 

Within  your  student  government,  there  are  executive  officers,  senators 
and  chairpersons  -  all  selected  from  programs  and  divisions  within  the  Col- 
lege 

Your  student  government  needs  support  from  YOU  the  student  body. 
If  you  need  to  be  Involved,  or  have  questions,  complaints,  or  suggestions, 
please  attend  our  scheduled  meetings,  or  visit  the  SGA  office,  located  In  Room 
A138,  LEC  (next  to  the  Rec  Center) 
Come...  and  help  us  help  YOU. 

Lynnee  K.  Wesson 

student  awareness/communications  officer 

and  business  management  student  from  Pine  Grove  Mills 

Christopher  V.  Wey 

committee  chairperson  and  general  studies  student  from  Dewart 

Good  grief! 

We  goofed.... 

Our  Telephone  is: 

Ext.  7533... 


LM««ri...HHMllr, 


Correcting  the  Record:  SGA  Report... 

There  were  two  errors  In  last  week's  story  about  the  Student  Government 
Association  officer  elections. 

James  T.  Corle,  nursery  management  student  from  New  Enterprise,  was 
elected  programming  development/evaluation  officer.  His  name  was  omlt- 
tedlast  week. 

Lynnee  K.  Wesson,  business  management  student  from  Pine  Grove  Mills, 
was  elected  student  awareness/communications  officer.  Her  name  was 
misspelled. 

The  SPOTLIGHT  regrets  any  Inconvenience  due  to  the  errors 


SPOTUQHT 
Mondiy,  Oct.  >,  IMS    ■    Vol.  22,  No.  7 

The  SPOTUQHT  la  published  each  Monday  mornlna  of  the  academic  year,  except  (Of 
College  vacatlona,  by  Joumallem  and  other  Interested  students  ot  The  Wllllamaporl  Area 
Community  Cotlege. 

Offtce:    Room  7.  Academic  Center.  1006  W  Third  St ,  Wllllamsport.  Pa   17701 
Telephone:  |717)  326.3761,  Extension  7633. 


STAFF 
Kalhy  L  Cobb,  Managing  Editor;  Brenda  M.  VIberl,  Associate  Editor;  Donna  M.  Trimble, 
Pnotography  Editor;  Michael  Waldron,  Advertising  Director;  Lisa  R.  Lumbard,  Chief  Com- 
positor. Marge  M  DINardo,  Pro<3uct1on  Manager 

REPORTERSOTAFF  ASSISTANTS 

Catherine  A    Hannon,  Ruth  Ann  Hlxson,  Marc  Varano,  Todd  Patterson.  Janlne  M, 
Sullivan.  Diane  L   Shaheen,  and  Margie  Flanagan 

ConlrlbullnB  Faculty  Adviser  Anthony  N.  Clllo,  assoc'afe  professor  of  lournallsm 


CompuSource 
Computer  Center 

COMPREHENSIVE  COMPUTER  AND  MANAGEMENT  INFORMATION  SERVICES 

COMPUTERIZED  WORD  PROCESSING 

FAST  SERVICE.  SPELLING  GUARANTEED. 

$1 .30  PER  PAGE.  REVISIONS  HALF-PRICE 

Minimum  Fee  $5.00 

(717)327-1423 

416  River  Ave.,  Suite  243,  Willlamsport,  Pa.  17701 


Stephen  M.  Koehler,  of  Duboistown.  and  Frank  C.  DUohnson,  of  Lebanon 
-both  construction  carpentry  students  -  work  behind  the  Professional 
Development  Center  on  class  project  of  building  stairs.  "It's  not  as  com- 
plicated as  it  looks, "  they  both  said;  "it  only  seems  that  way. " 

'Championshop  Season'  to  be  staged 
this  month  in  ACC  Auditorium 

The  Wtlliamsport  Players,  in  conjunction  with  the  College,  will  present 
"That  Championship  Season",  a  play  by  Jason  Miller,  five  times  this  month. 

The  Pulitzer  Prize  winning  work  will  be  presented  on  Friday,  Oct.  17,  on 
Saturday,  Oct.  18,  and  on  Sunday,  Oct.  19  as  well  as  on  Friday,  Oct.  24,  and 
Saturday,  Oct.  25.  Curtain  times  are  7:30  p.m  for  the  Sunday  performance  and 
8  p.m.  for  the  others. 

Season  tickets  are  $10  for  students,  faculty,  and  staff.  General  admission  is 
$18. 

Tickets  are  available  by  contacting  the  College  Activities  Coordinator's  Of- 
fice in  the  Gym. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  to  meet  tomorrow 


Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  will  hold 
its  second  regular  meeting  of  the  year  at 
3:30  p.m.  tomorrow  in  Room  329, 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Paul  W. 
Goldfeder,  faculty  adviser  to  the  cam- 
pus unit  and  PBL  state  adviser. 

Newly-elected  president  Martin  T. 
Green,  business  management  student 
from  Willlamsport,  will  preside  over 
the  meeting. 

One  of  the  topics  to  be  discussed  is 
appointments  to  various  committees. 
Students  interested  in  running  one  of 
the  several  committees  may  contact  him 
or  Green,  Goldfeder  said. 


Members  are  also  advised,  he  said, 
that  dues  should  be  in  locally  no  later 
than  next  Tuesday,  Oct.  14,  since  dues 
must  be  sent  to  the  national  organiza- 
tion by  Monday,  Oct.  20. 

The  Eastern  Regional  Leadership 
Conference  will  be  held  at  the  Hilton 
Hotel  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  on  Friday, 
Oct.  31,  Saturday,  Nov.  I,  and  Sunday, 
Nov.  2. 

Registration  fees  for  the  Leadership 
Conference  are  S34  per  person.  The  fees 
are  due  next  Monday,  Oct.  13,  he  said. 
Local  members  interested  in  attending 
may  contact  Green,  the  adviser  said. 


SEE....      .pjjj,  ^^LL.j^^ 

Penny  Arcade 

at 

PHI  BETA  LAMBDA 

ROOM  3,  LOWER  LEVEL  OF  ACC 


SGA  meets,  discusses  programming; 
'Come  visit  SGA  office'  says  adviser 


The  Student  Goverafflcnt  Associa- 
tion met  last  Tuesday  to  discuss  pro- 
graniffling  goals  and  objectives,  accor- 
ding to  Ms.  Sandra  L.  RJione,  SGA  ad- 
viser. 

In  order  to  meet  the  needs  of  the 
student  body,  she  said,  meeting  times 
were  set  up  for  SGA  committees.  Ms. 
Rhone  said  the  Programming  Commit- 
tee will  meet  every  Thursday  at  6  p.m. 
in  Room  B107,  Lifelong  Education 
Center  (LEQ. 

The  Student  Action  Committee  will 
meet  4  p.m.  each  Wednesday,  in  B107, 
LEC. 

Although  no  formal  meeting  time 


has  been  set  for  the  Student  Awareness 
Committee,  Ms.  Rhone  said  students 
"are  encouraged  to  visit  the  SGA 
office"  -  A138,  LEC  -  and  to 
"become  involved." 

Ms.  Rhone  said  all  committee 
meetings  are  open  to  the  public. 

Other  items  discussed  included  mir- 
rors to  be  purchased  for  the  Recreation 
Center,  rock  video  previews,  an  in- 
vestigation concerning  a  possible  Col- 
lege "yearbook",  concert  videos  and 
movie  videos  which  would  be  shown  in 
the  Susquehanna  Room,  and  the 
posibility  of  a  Spring  formal. 


Two  new  sports  events 
scheduled  for  this  month 


An  intramural  racquetball  tourna- 
ment and  a  badminton  league  have  been 
scheduled  to  begin  this  month,  accor- 
ding to  Ms.  Margot  Bayer,  evening  Col- 
lege activities  assistant. 

Racqaetbill  toamafflcnt  Khedoled 

Ms.  Bayer  said  the  intramural  rac- 
quetball tournament  will  be  held  Oct. 
27,  28,  29,  and  30  from  8  to  1 1  p.m.  at 
the  Nautilus  Racquetball  and  Fitness 


BARRY'S 

BROOKLYN  STYLE 
EATERY 


ROOMS  FOR  RENT 

"Save-A-Buck  Specials 

Open 'TU  12  p.m.  Daily 


Gub,  River  Avenue,   Williamsport. 

"There  is  a  fee  of  $12  per  person, 
which  will  cover  registration,  court  fees, 
and  balls,"  she  said. 

The  fee  must  be  paid  by  Oct.  14,  in 
Room  108,  Gymnasium,  she  said. 

"Divisions  will  be  determined  by 
the  number  of  players,  and  dependent 
on  that  number,  the  tournament  could 
be  postponed,"  Ms.  Bayer  added. 

The  tournament  is  open  to  all 
students,  faculty  and  staff,  she  said,  ad- 
ding that  maximum  participation  is  32: 
"So  interested  persons  should  sign  up 
early." 

Bidminton  leigne  formed 

A  badminton  league  is  scheduled  to 
begin  Oct.  20,  Ms.  Bayer  said.  In- 
terested students  should  see  Ms.  Bayer 
before  next  Monday,  Oct.  13,  to 
register. 

Ms.  Bayer  can  be  reached  between 
1:30  to  10  p.m..  Room  209,  Gym- 
nasium, or  by  calling  Extension  7416. 


s 

s 

3 

u 

T 

T 

sUi 

s 

3 

a- 

a 

3 

V 

a 

H 

A 

0 

1 

3 

'i^M'i 

0 

■J 

s 

3 

N 

3 

H 

A 

I 

1 

V 

H 

v'H^ 

3 

V 

1 

T 

I 

A 

N 

I 

.L 

1 

1 

I 

a 

3 

a 

V 

U 

1 

a 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

s 

1 

V 

a 

N 

I 

3 

1 

s 

u 

V 

N 

1, 

a 

H 

0 

.T 

1 

N 

V 

a 

1 

.r. 

)f 

V 

d 

V 

s 

U 

3 

d 

I 

1 

V 

3 

1 

1 

N 

3 

a 

0 

U 

1 

1 

1 

0 

N 

I 

s 

1 

'J 

N 

V 

H 

1 

1 

1 

s 

N 

V 

H 

0 

1 

1 

;) 

N 

1 

1 

l 

K 

3 

N 

H 

3 

!l 

d 

S 

1 

3 

N 

I 

1 

s 

3 

il 

3 

V 

I 

S 

a 

V 

1 

s 

T 

0 

a 

I 

1 

1 

3 

I 

0 

a 

1 

3 

1 

s 

T 

I 

s 

H 

0 

1 

1 

1 

J 

V 

u 

■J 

y 

u 

V 

1 

J|V 

A 

» 

3 

N 

I 

M 

i 

I 

1 

V 

1 

V 

nBi 

N 

V 

M 

V 

U 

¥ 

1 

N 

V 

u 

3 

d 

o|s 

3 

1 

V 

a 

3 

a 

SPOTLICHTDMoidiT,  Ott.  t,  1W«   d3 


p  H  ■■  iVALUABLE  COUPONIb  h  h  h 

ImEE  niiAi ! 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
i 


I  Buy  ctny  size  Little  Caesars 
■  Original  round  pizza  at  reguUir 
price,  get  the  identlceJ  pizza 
FREE  with  this  coupon. 


GOLDEN  STRIP 
GIANT  PLAZA 

327-8600 


W.A.C.C.  iUdcDU  an 
•ddlUaul  ifh  onlr  wItt 
■tidcnt  I.D.  ud  Ikb  ill. 


One  coupon  per  customer.  Cany  <>"*  onlv-  Al  participating  locations. 


Ci 

jllegiate  crossword 

' 

m    9    10   11   ij   13  u 

15 

In  1  1  1  1  1  1 

17 

r     U 

Hi 

Jl 

nil 

JPT 

2/ 

pB    W^i') 

JfT 

f#-i 

.'  ppp 

43 

UP 

Hi 

46 

jt 

!rTM^ 

i 

-     ^i"" 

i)4 

-\ 

r     n 

bti 

Jr 

SO 

©     dw,rd    Ju    ius 

ri  M  M  M 

CoUoBiate   CW84-J 

ACROSS 

1  Returns  on  payments 
8  conditioning 

15  Utterly  unyielding 

16  Wood 

17  Goddess  of  wisdom 
le  Signaled,  as  In  an 

auto  race 

19  Toward  the  stern 

20  Throat  tissue 

22  More  aged  (arch.) 

23  Legislative  body 
of  Japan 

25  Objects  of  worship 

26  Bedouin  tribe 

27  Estate 

29  Chemical  suffix 

30  Shopping  

31  Young  bird 
33  Navlgaf 


34  I 


atl- 


paper 

35  Chinese:  comb. 

36  Gnawing  animal 
39  Measuring  devic 

43  Asunder 

44  Hr.  Aykroyd 

45  Car  or  cleanser 

46  A  Bobbsey  twin. 


47  I 


Ronstadt 


51  Welsh  

53  ear 

54  Comnunlty 

56  Pertaining  to  love 

58  Musician  Georges, 

59  Recover  from 
(2  wds.) 

60  Most  blushful 

61  Female  prophet 

DOWN 

1  Islamic  month  of 
fasting 

2  Building 

3  Teases 

4  Trench  soul 

6  Concluding  remarks 

6  Among  the  records 

(2  wds.) 
9  Coffin  cloths 

10  Letters,  in  Greece 

11  Distasteful  news- 
paper 

12  High  school  course 


26  Fitting 

28  Distort  a  story 

30  boom 

32  Finance  abbrevi- 

33  Abner 

35  Balloon-ride  Items 

36  Exceeded  one's  al- 
lotted time  (2  wds.) 

37  Iridescent  milky- 
white 

38  Bounced  on  one's 

39  Vaudeville  prop 

40  Involving  love, 


44  Most  dreadful 

47  Capital  of  Nigeria 

48  Evangelist  McPherson 

51  Compete  at  Indy 

52  Actress  Sharon  

55  Dangerous  drug 

57  Rocky  crest 


Crossword  Puzzle  Brought  to  You  By.., 

PHI  BETA  LAMBDA 

Room  3,  Lower  Level,  ACC 


United  Way  Fund  Drive 
opens  today;  goal  is  higher 

The  College's  1986-1987  Lycoming  United  Way  Fund  Drive  officially 
begins  today  with  a  Jdck-off  meeting  for  team  leaders,  according  to  William  C. 
Bradshaw,  director  of  experiential  learning  and  co-chairperson  of  the  College's 
United  Way  effort. 

The  College's  goal  for  this  year  is  longer  with  the  College  -  which  means 
S9,600  which  represents  an  increase  of  some  of  the  44  percent  who  did  not  give 
nearly  $1,000  over  that  of  1985-1986,  last  year  will  have  to  pick  up  the  shor- 
according  to  Bradshaw.  tage  if  we  are  to  meet  our  goal." 


'Beglii  witli  opdiiiiim' 

"Last  year,  only  slightly  more 
than  half  of  the  College's  employees 
contributed  to  the  United  Way,"  Brad- 
shaw said,  adding,  "yet  their  contribu- 
tions nearly  equalled  this  year's  goal." 

He  continued,  "Unfortunately, 
some  of  last  year's  major  givers  are  no 


Co<hairperson  of  the  1986-1987 
campus  campaign,  Fred  T.  Gilmour, 
director  of  the  Instructional  Media 
Center,  said,  "We  begin  the  campaign 
with  optimism  that  the  College  will 
once  again  meet  or  exceed  our  goal. 

"We  have  a  reputation  for  getting 
the  job  done." 


4oSF(niIGHTaMowli;,  Oct.  i,  in* 

Transfer  seminars  today,  tomorrow 


Transfer  seminars  will  be  held  to- 
day at  I  p.m.  and  tomorrow  at  II  a.m. 
in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium  in 
preparation  for  College  Transfer  Day, 
according  to  Thomas  C.  Sboff,  transfer 
counselor. 

Each  seminar  will  last  30  minutes 
with  time  available  for  students  to  ask 
questions,  Shoff  said. 

Toothbrush  sale 

to   be   held  this   week 

There  will  be  a  toothbrush  sale 
sponsored  by  SADHA  tomorrow  and 
Wednesday  in  front  of  the  Susquehanna 
Room  in  the  Lifelong  Education  Center. 

According  to  Harold  J.  Harper, 
dental  hygiene  student  from 
Millersburg,  toothbrushes  will  cost  SI, 
but  a  quarter  discount  will  be  given  for 
an  "old"  toothbrush  turned  in  at  the 
time  of  purchase. 


Shoff  said  he  urges  studentj  in- 
terested in  an  eventual  transfer  to  attend 
one  of  the  three  sessions. 

College  Transfer  Day  will  be  held 
next  Monday  in  the  Gymnasium.  Shoff 
said  approximately  22  participating  col- 
leges and  universities  include  Penn 
State,  Mansfield  University,  Susquehan- 
na University,  Selinsgrove,  Juniata  Col- 
lege,   Huntington,    Ehnira    College, 


Elmira,  New  York,  Lock  Haven  Univer- 
sity,   Bloomsburg    University,    and 

Lycoming  College,  Williamsport. 

Shoff  also  stated  that  information 
pamphlets  will  be  available.  Any  stu- 
dent having  questions  can  contact  him 
at  Ext.  7246,  or  in  Room  157  in  the  Ad- 
visement and  Career  Services  Center, 
Learning  Resources  Center. 


Government  Surplus 

Military  Clothing 

and 

Equipment 

Appalachian  Outfitters 

15  East  Water  Street 

Muncy,  PA  17772 


Monday  - 

Friday 

Saturday 


Thursday 


9-7 
9-9 
10-5 


Phone  717-546-8296 


BULLETIN  BOARD 

Week  of  Monday,  Oct.  6  through  Sunday.  Oct.  12 
Meetings 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship -7  to  9 p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Oct.  7 Room 
133,  Academic  Center. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  -  noon  to  I  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Oct.  7,  Room 
BI07,  Lifelong  Education  Center, 

Narcotics  Anonymous  -  7  p.m.,  Wednesday,  Oct.  8,  Room  B107, 
Lifelong  Education  Center. 

Forestry  Club  -  Woodsmen  Meet,  all  day,  Sunday,  Oct  5,  at  Wheeling, 
W.  Va. 

Student  Government  Association  -  executive  meeting,  tomorrow,  Tues- 
day, Oct.  7,  4p.m.  to  5  p.m..  Room  BI07,  Lifelong  Education  Center;  open  to 
executive  officers  only. 

Student  Government  Association  -  Senate  meeting,  tomorrow,  Tuesday, 
Oct  7.,  5  p.m.  to  6  p.m.,  Room  B107,  Lifelong  Education  Center;  open  to  all 
students  and  stqff. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  -  general  meeting,  tomorrow,  Tuesday,  Oct.  7,  at  3:30 
p.m.,  Room  329  Academic  Center. 

Events 

Rqffle  -  There  will  be  a  Forestry  Club  ruffle  at  the 
Earth  Science  Center,  today,  Monday,  Oct.  6. 

Movie  -  The  Film  Society  will  present  Three  Brothers  this  Thursday,  Oct. 
9,  and  Friday,  Oct.  10,  from  7:30  p.m.  to  10:30  p.m.  at  the  Academic  Center 
Auditorium. 

Dance  -  Sponsored  by  the  Student  Government  Association,  this  Wednes- 
day, Oct.  8,  from  9  to  11:30  p.m.,  admission  free;  WWAS  will  be  DJing. 

Toothbrush  Sale  -  A  toothbrush  sale  sponsored  by  Student  American  Den- 
tal Hygiene  Association  (SADHA),  tomorrow  through  Thursday,  front  of  Sus- 
quehanna Room,  Lifelong  Education  Center. 

Bake  Sale  -  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  sponsored  bake  sale,  this  Wednesday, 
Oct.  8,  from  8  a.m.  to  3  p.m.,  Academic  Center  lobby. 

Bloodmobile  -  Student  Government  Association  sponsored,  10  a.m.  to  2 
p.m.,  Earth  Science  Campus. 


^:ig:!i!:3i::*::*::c*::*;;*:;iKCii!:;*::!ii:^ 

m  /-o  ALWAYS  OPEN  -  M 

hi  _  _nW^-K  ALL  NIQHT,  >H? 

HOLIDAYS,  AND  SUNDAYS  ^"i' 


>«! 


Snacks 

Hot  and  Cold  Drinks 

Groceries 

Gasoline 


BENSON 


Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts. 


K:ig;^::s::5i:i;:i:s;;i;:^:^^::§;:^;;s;i:i;i::iij;i::c^:;g;^:;^:  gi;:^ 


SportsCard 

Today: 

Basketball,  flag  football,  and 
volleyball  leagues.. .4  to  10  p.m.  in  the 
gym. 

Weight  Room  open.. .4  to  10  p.m. 

Karate  class... 7  to  9  p.m.  in  the 
gym. 
Tomorrow,  Oct.  7: 

Open  Gym... 4  to  10  p.m.,  leagues 
will  be  in  play. 
WedncMUy,  Oct.  8: 

Leagues  in  play.. .4  to  10  p.m. 

Weight  Room  open.. .Open  Gym. 
Thondij,  Oct.  9: 

Leagues  in  play. ..4  to  10  p.m. 

Weight  Room  open. ..Open  Gym. 

Karate  class. ..7  to  9  p.m.  in  the 
gym. 
Sunday,  Oct.  12: 

Weight  Room  open. ..Open  Gym,  5 
to  9  p.m..  Volleyball,  basketball,  and 
any  other  activity  for  which  equipment 
is  available. 

Anyone  interested  in  participating 
in  a  racquet  ball  tournament  may  con- 
tact Ms.  Margot  R.  Bayer,  evening  ac- 
tivities assistant,  in  the  Gym,  Room 
209,  or  call  Extension  7416  after  1:30 
p.m.,  Monday  through  Thursday. 


Student  help 
needed  this  month 
for  Bloodmobile 

A  Bloodmobile  is  scheduled  to  visit 
the  campus  this  month  and  student  help 
is  needed  for  that  visit,  according  to  Ms. 
Sandra  L.  Rhone,  College  activities 
assistant  and  Student  Government 
Association  adviser. 

A  goal  of  450  pints  of  blood  has 
been  set  for  the  visit,  according  to 
William  J.  Fritz,  Student  Government 
Association  president. 

The  Bloodmobile  visits  are  being 
sponsored  by  the  SGA. 

Visits  are  scheduled  at  the  Earth 
Sciences  Center  next  Thursday,  Oct.  16, 
and  at  the  Main  Campus  on  Tuesday 
and  Wednesday,  Oct.  21  and  Oct.  22. 

"Any  student  who  would  like  to 
help  by  donating  blood,  or  assisting 
with  set-up,  tear-down,  carrying  blood, 
or  helping  donors...  is  invited  to  visit 
the  SGA  office  to  sign  up,"  said  Fritz,  a 
plumbing  and  heating  student  from 
Homer  City. 

He  said  he  is  urging  students  to 
"become  involved  with  this  event  -  and 
with  other  SGA-sponsored  activities..." 

The  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion Office  is  in  Room  A138,  Lifelong 
Education  Center,  next  to  the  Recrea- 
tion Center. 


'^^"\^^ 


Cillo's 

College 

Coraer 


PHONE 
322-1321 


1100  W.  Third  St. 

(Next  to 

the  Academic  CcHter) 

THIS  WEEK'I 
SPECIALS  ^ 

^Bacon  •  Cheese  •  Egg^ 
%  on  Muffin  I 

*^   $1.25        Reg.  $1.65 


Half  Regular  Sub 

$1.00         T.X  ,.CU 

Whole  Regular  Sub 
$2.00    T.x     .c. 


Reg. 
$1.35 


Reg. 
$2.40 


HOURS* 

Men.  thru  Thnrs. 

7:30  a.m.  to  6  p.m. 

Friday,  7:30  a.m.  to  4  p.m. 


Spotlight 

Monday,  Marcli  12,  1984     •     Vol.  19,  No,  26     •     24  Paaes 
Williamsporl  Area  C"mmur'iy  Ci)llege     •     Williamsporl,  Pa.  17701 


2     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  March  12,  1984 

Shop  safety  standards 
approved  at  College 
trustees'  meeting 

The  Cdllcgc  Board  "I  TruMccs  held  iis 
regular  nKMiihly  inccling  al  8  p.m.  lasl  Monday 
ill  Ihe  Aulomoiive  Trades  Ccnicr. 

Amiiiig  ihc  aciii'ii  iicnis  uncd  upon  by  ihc 
board  was  a  proposal  lo  adopi  shop  safely 
uuidclincs  aeeording  lo  guidchncs  imposed  by 
Ihc  Occupaiional  Safely  and  Hcahh  Adminislra- 
iioii  (OSHA).  Wilh  ihcsc  rules  in  effeel,  a  proper 
work  ciuiroiinieni  more  closely  rescmblini;  ihai 
of  a  real  work  siuiaiion  will  be  treated.  (College 
shops  have  consisicnily  had  safely  guidelines;  Ihc 
liroposal  realigns  ihose  guidelines.) 

Also  approved  ai  ihe  meeiing  was  a  pro- 
posal 10  replace  ihc  bleachers  in  ihc  College 
gymnasium  due  lo  ihc  poor  condilion  of  ihe  c\- 
isling  bleachers. 

The  old  bleachers  will  be  removed  beginning 
May  21  wiih  ihe  new  ones  lo  be  complciely  ni- 
sialied  bv  Aug.  I.  The  hual  cosi  of  ihe  projeci  is 
$78,725.  Dcgler-Whiling  provided  ihc  lowesi  bid 
for  Ihc  projeci . 

A  revision  of  llic  journalism  and  broad- 
cast ing  programs  was  also  approved  al  ihe 
mecling.  The  changes  were  made  in  keeping  wilh 
Ihc  need,  according  lo  Ihe  presenlaiion  lo  ihe 
board,  for  updating  the  programs  to  remain 
compctilive  In  ihe  mass  communications  field. 

The  major  change  within  ihe  programs  will 
involve  adding  courses,  creating  of  a  third 
possibilily  for  study,  and  combining  journalism 
and  broadcasting  sludcnis  into  some  field-related 
courses. 

The  president's  report,  given  by  Dr.  Roberl 
L.  Breuder,  College  president,  included  thanks 
10  Ihose  who  helped  prepare  the  a.sscssment 
report  which  will  be  part  of  the  Middle  Stales 
evclualion  visit.  Dr.  Breuder  said  he  wanted  to 
especially  thank  Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor 
of  government  and  history,  and  Rodney  G. 
Hurley,  dean  of  educational  research. 

Al  the  meeting,  loo,  three  new  board 
members  were  welcomed;  John  Bryinglon,  from 
Canton;  Luther  Erlcl,  from  South  Williamsport, 
and  Dennis  l.esher,  from  Line  Mountain. 

The  next  meeiing  of  the  Board  of  Trustees 
will  be  al  8  p.m.,  Thursday,  April  5. 


Graduation  apparel 
will  be  available 
in  College  bookstore 
by  mid-April 

Clolhing  for  eommencemeni  will  be 
available  at  the  College  Bookslore  on  Monday, 
April  16,  aeeording  lo  Mrs.  Eleonore  R. 
Holcomb,  Bookslore  supervisor. 

(The  reference  lo  a  one-lripper  cap,  gown, 
and  hood  alludes  lo  the  fad  thai  graduation  is  a 
"one  irip"  experience,  she  said.) 

Prices  for  the  various  garments  are  as 
follows; 

Student  one-tripper  cap  and  gown  with 
tassel,  $13. 

Associate  one-tripper  hood,  $\\. 

'84  tassel  for  student,  $3.25. 

Cap,  $3.75. 

White  collar  (females  only),  no  charge. 

Bachelor's  one-lripper  hood,  $12.50. 

Master's  one-lripper  hood,  $13.75. 

Bachelor's  one-tripper  cap,  gown  with 
lassel,  $17.50. 

Master's  one-tripper  cap,  gown  with  tassel, 
$19. 

Plain  black  tassel,  $3. 

Doctoral  one-lripper  cap,  gown  with  tassel, 
$23.50. 

Doctoral  one-tripper  hood,  $18.50. 

Gold  silk  tassel,  $9.50. 

Resume  service  offered 

The  staff  of  the  Counseling,  Career 
Development,  and  Placement  Office  is  offering  a 
resume  service  for  enrolled  students,  according 
lo  Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director. 

On  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  between  10 
a.m.  and  4  p.m.,  students  may  bring  a  rough 
draft  copy  of  their  resumes  to  Ms.  Helen  Krupa, 
intern,  in  Room  157,  Learning  Resources  Center 
(LRC). 

Ms.  Krupa  will  review  the  draft  copy  and 
send  it  lo  the  secretarial  science  department, 
where  is  will  be  typed  by  secretarial  science 
students. 

There  is  a  week  turn-around  lime  and  a 
charge  of  $2  per  page  for  the  final  copy.  The 
charge  will  go  directly  to  the  students  who  do  the 
typing. 


PBL  members 

to  visit  AT  &  T  office 

Members  of  Phi  Bcia  Lambda  (PBL)  will 
sponsor  a  field  trip  lo  llic  American  Tcleplionc 
and  Telegraph  Corporalion's  (AT  &  T) 
Williamsport  office  on  West  Fourlh  Sireet, 
tomorrow  ai  3:30  p.m. 

According  lo  David  A.  Haas,  PBL  club 
prcsidcnl  and  computer  science  student  from 
Williamsport,  the  club  will  tinir  AT  &  T's 
"8(X)"scrvice  and  investigate  its  relationship  lo 
the  computer  field. 

"All  PBL  members  are  invited  lo  go. 
Students  and  faculty  of  the  Business  and  Com- 
puter Science  Division  arc  welcome  also,"  Haas 
said. 

Anyone  interested  should  immediately  con- 
tact Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  professor  of- 
business  administration,  or  Haas  at  College  Ext. 
228. 

However,  Haas  warned  that  sign-up  is  on  a 
space-available  basis.  "PBL  members  will  lake 
precedence  in  the  event  of  an  excess  of  people 
who  want  (o  go,"  he  said. 

Shake  it  up,  drop  it  off 
say  the  Sigma  sisters 

Tired  of  fad  diets?  ...advertisements  that 
claim  you  canioe  20  pounds  in  two  days?  ...sick 
of  grapefruit? 

Consider  Sigma  Pi  Omega's  "Spring  Shake 
Up". 

The  Spring  Shake  Up  is  a  course  thai 
teaches  the  student  how  to  lose  weight  safely,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  adviser  to  the 
group. 

It  also  teaches  students  how  to  conduct  a 
class  in  weight  loss.  The  course  originated  at 
The  Pennsylvania  Stale  University  and  is  called 
"safe  slimming". 

The  students  receive  kits  which  contain 
charts  and  information  such  as  how  to  set  goals 
for  weight  loss,  said  Mrs.  Moon,  who  is  also  an 
associate  professor  of  food  service. 

The  class,  she  said,  is  open  to  any  interested 
persons.  To  sign  up,  interested  persons  may  call 
College  Ext.  257  or  369,  she  added. 


Monday.  Marcti  12.  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     3 

College  to  sponsor 
Elderhostel  programs 
in  June  and  August 

Elderhostel  programs  sponsored  by  the  Col- 
lege will  be  held  during  two  separate  weeks  - 
June  n  to  23  and  Aug.  12  lo  18  --  according  lo 
Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of 
community-based  activities  and  the  College's 
Elderhostel  program. 

The  program,  which  is  open  lo  people  over 
60  or  to  those  whose  participating  spouses 
qualify,  offers  educational  programs  to  the  elder- 
ly al  a  low  cost,  according  to  information  pro- 
vided by  Ms.  Rosenberger. 

The  program  is  active  in  the  United  Slates, 
Canada,  Great  Britain,  Denmark,  Sweden, 
Finland  and  Norway,  according  to  the  informa- 
tion. 

Various  courses  available 
Ms.  Rosenberger  said  the  courses  will  in- 
clude "The  Geology  of  the  Appalachian  Moun- 
lains",  "Pennsylvania  Canals"  and  "The 
Meaning  of  Life"  for  ihc  June  session  and  "The 
Best  of  Nouvelle  Cuisine",  "Baroque  Painting" 
and  "Lakes  and  Ponds-What's  Really  in 
Them?"  for  Ihc  August  session. 

"There  are  three  courses  available  each 
week,"  said  Ms.  Rosenberger.  "The  par-^ 
licipanls  have  ui  attend  at  least  one  each  week." 
The  program,  being  held  in  conjunction 
with  Lycoming  College,  is  limited  to  35  people. 
It  will  cost  $180  per  person,  according  to  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 

Faculty  from  the  College  and  from  Lycom- 
ing College  will  be  staffing  the  courses,  said  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 

Only  communily  college  lo  sponsor 
Among  the  27  colleges  Ihal  sponsor 
Elderhostel  programs  are;  Bloomsburg  Univer- 
sity, Bucknell  University,  California  University, 
Carlow  College,  College  Misericordia,  East 
Stroudsburg  University,  Edinboro  University, 
Gannon  University,  Gwynedd-Mercy  College, 
Indiana  University  of  Pennsylvania,  Juniala  Col- 
lege, Keystone  Junior  College,  Lafayeile  College, 
Lock  Haven  University,  Lycoming  Col- 
lege/Williamsport  Area  Community  College, 
Mansfield  University,  Messiah  College, 
Millcrsville  University,  Mount  Aloysius  Junior 
College,  Pennsylvania  Slate  University,  Saint 

Please  iiirii  lo  Page  23 


4     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  March  12,  1984 

Will  Iran-Iraq  crisis  cause 
Marines  to  do  battle  again? 

...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Hang  on,  folks'  Here  we  go  agaim  Recently, 
ihe  United  Stales  Marines  in  Lebanon  were 
evacuated  and  began  me  first  stage  of  ine  return 
home-  America  breamed  a  rather  large  sigh  of 
relief  when  the  last  amphibious  unit  headed  for 
sea 

But  the  trouble  isn't  over  The  war  between 
Iran  and  Iraq  is  heating  up  and  we're  rapidly  get- 
ting in  the  middle  of  it! 

Former  CIA  director  Siansfield  Turner  was 
quoted  recently  as  saying  he  believed  the  United 
Stales  would  attack  deep  mside  Iran  if  the  nation 
tried  10  block  the  Persian  Gulf,  due  to  our  inierests 
in  It  Iran  responded  thai  if  me  United  Slates  tried 
to  intervene,  "their  fate  would  be  worse  man  Iheir 
fate  in  Lebanon  " 

The  United  Nations  role  in  the  Iran-Iraq  conflict  has  been  one  of  predictability  so  far; 
they  seem  to  be  following  trends  of  Ihe  past 

This  slatemeni  refers  to  Ihe  action  taken  in  Vietnam  over  a  decade  ago,  when  our  troops 
eniered  into  a  country  m  turmoil,  |ust  to  leave  several  years  later  -  bloody  and  beaten 

It  didn't  end  there,  though  "Peace-keeping  "  Marines  were  seni  into  Lebanon  to  try  to 
maintain  the  present  rule  Several  months  later,  the  Marines  left  there  -  again,  bloody  and 
beaten  Thai  makes  Ihe  record  zero  and  Iwo  lor  successful  intervention  by  the  United 
Slates 

Turner  maintains  thai  we  will  only  strike  if  Iran  "deals  the  first  blow,"  but  the  blow  would 
nol  hil  us,  but  rather  our  "allies  "  America  siill  has  ihe  habit  of  coming  lo  the  rescue,  though. 
The  question  is,  who  will  come  lo  our  rescue  when  w(e  run  out  of  "peace-keepers"? 

SPOTUGHT 

Monday,  March  12,  1984    -    Vol.  19,  No.  26 

Trie  SPOTUGHT  is  piiblistied  eacti  IVIonday  mofninq  yl  ttie  academic  year,  except  for  College  vacations,  by 
(Oiifnalism  and  oltief  inleresled  sludeiils  ol  The  Willtamsporl  Area  Cornmunilv  College 

Ollice  Room  7,  Academic  Center,  1005  W  Third  SI,  Williamsport,  Pa  17701  Telephone:  (717| 
326-3761 


Opinions  expressed  are  those  ol  Ihe  student  newspaper  or  ot  those  whose  names  accmpany  items    Opinions 


THE  STAFF 

Joan  L  Thompson,  managing  editor.  Perry  D  Pentz,  editorial  page  editor;  Lori  M  Lane,  sports  editor,  l^ary  L 
Pease,  photography  editor,  Thomas  F  Monlgomerv.  production  supervisor,  Annette  M  Engel,  photocomposition 
manager;  Thomas  t-l  Long,  administialive  altairs  editor,  Kay  lyl  Frace,  sludent  alfairs  editor,  Giseta  D  Grasstey, 
advertising  manager.  Barbi  L  Chilson,  senior  stall  writer.  Gregory  W  Huff,  senior  staff  wntei,  twiurray  J  Hanford. 
slati  artist 

REPORTERSfSTAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Oonna  M  Barnell,  tvtarcy  L  Card,  Kathleen  R  Foreman.  Kalhryn  tvt  Gilbert,  Robert  O  Hawk,  Rodney  D  HItl, 
Lori  L.  Holland.  Richard  E  Kopp  Jr  ,  Robert  W  tvlinier,  Kathy  A  tvteixel,  Anne  T  fvloratetti,  James  K  Morrissey, 
Mark  S  Schwanke,  Sandra  R  Taylor 

Faculty  adviser   Anthony  N,  Cillo 


Monday,  March  12.  1984 


Tutorial  Center  growing: 
a  plus  for  students 
facing  troubles  in  courses 


...in  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

OHicially  eslablished  in  1976  as  a  pan  of  the 
Developmental  Studies  Division,  the  Tutorial 
Center  lias  grown  by  leaps  and  bounds  The 
Center  now  employs  four  professional  lab 
assistants  and  38  student  tutors  Compared  to  tne 
SIX  student  tutors  and  one  supervisor  in  a 
classroom  before  1 976,  trie  Center  lias  really  ad- 
vanced 

Three  of  the  four  professional  lab  assistants 
have  a  master's  degree  and  the  other  has  a 
bachelor's  degree  There  are  two  professional  lab 
assistants  for  English  and  two  for  math  Ail  four 
assistants  also  leach  pan-iime:  two  at  the  Col- 
lege, one  at  Bloomsburg  University,  and  one  at 
Montoursville  Area  High  School 

In  the  fall  of  1983.  971  students  lool<  advantage  of  the  free  walk-in  service  with  5.626 
student  visits  A  25  percent  increase  ol  students  using  the  facility  was  seen  over  the  Fall  of 
1 982    There  was  a  1 7  percent  increase  in  the  amount  of  visits  over  that  same  period  of  time 

The  Center  offers  tutors  for  math.  English,  civil  engineering  technology,  tool  mal<ing 
technology,  computer  science,  engineering  drafting  technology,  accounting,  architecture, 
physics,  nursery  management,  carpentry,  forestry,  electrical  technology,  and  electronics 
technology 

Tutoring  either  takes  place  in  the  Center  or  in  the  actual  area  where  machines  and  com- 
puters aie  available 

Student  tutors  must  be  recommended  by  an  instructor  in  the  particular  area  the  student 
wanis  to  tutor  An  interview,  in  person  or  on  the  phone,  with  the  supervisor  of  the  Center 
takes  place  with  each  student  before  he  or  she  is  hired  The  supervisor  looks  for 
characteristics  such  as  patience  and  the  ability  to  work  well  wtth  people 

Each  tutor  works  an  average  of  1 0  hours  a  week.  The  hours  the  tutors  are  available  are 
set  at  Ihe  beginning  of  each  semester  fvlosl  tutors  have  a  "B"  average  and  three-fourths  of 
the  tutors  are  on  the  Dean's  List 

The  Tutorial  Center  has  grown  and  expanded  within  Ihe  past  few  years.  The  tutors  are 
well  qualified  in  specific  and  minor  fields 

Students  should  take  advantage  of  this  free  service  provided  by  Ihe  College  because  it 
has  many  tutors  to  offer  help  in  the  many  specialized  fields  and  curriculums  offered  at  the 
College 


6     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  March  12.  1984 

Dylan's  music  changed 
over  the  years  but  still  a 
big  part  of  music  industry 

Like  A  Rolling  S'one  appeared  on  the 
music  charts  in  1 965  In  the  album.  Bob 
Dylan  expressed  lo  Ihe  music  world  that 
Ihe  Times  They  Are  A  Changing.  The 
album  made  him  a  hero  of  Ihe  prolest 
movement 

Dylan  predicted  the  direcllon  music 
was  heading  and  look  civil  rights  and  anti- 
war slances  using  "borrowed"  tunes  for 
self-righteous  moralising  topical  songs  fill- 
ed with  the  brilliant  imageiy  and  caustic 
irony  tlial  caused  his  reputation  to  grow. 
And  then  the  Freewheelin  Bob  Dylan  was 
released. 

The  first  step  toward  rock  'n'  toll  was 
the  release  of  his  next  album.  Another 
Side  ol  Bob  Dylan.  Sell-pitying  and  ciuel. 
but  vividly  powerful  lyrics  emphasized 
peisonal  rather  than  political  sentiments  in 
the  songs.  All  I  Really  Want  to  Do.  and  // 
Ain'l  Me  Babe  Folk  fans  and  political  pro- 
testors fell  betrayed  and  the  album  did 
not  do  so  well 

Bringing  II  All  Back  Home  completed 

St.  Elsewhere,  a  blend 
of  laughter  and  tears 

lelevision  review  by  Kathy  A.  Meixel 

Afler  viewing  some  ol  Ihe  new  shows  on 
lelevision  ihis  season,  I  was  glad  lo  swilch  back  lo 
an  old  favorile.  "Si   Elsewhere" 

Being  a  siudious  college  student.  I  don't  have 
much  lime  lo  watch  television  Therefore,  when  I 
watch  a  progiam  I  want  to  get  my  time's  worth. 
The  hour  I  spend  each  week  on  "St  Elsewhere "  is 
an  hour  spenl  wisely 

Unlike  the  crash  em.  bang  'em.  and  good  guy 
always  wins  shows,  "SI  Elsewhere"  doesn't 
always  end  happily  Many  viewers  were  touched 
with  the  unexpected  death  ol  a  heart  transplant  pa- 
tient This  wasn't  Ihe  only  episode  thai  brought 
tears  lo  eyes 

The  show  deals  with  real  life  -  in  which,  as 
we  know,  the  good  guy  doesn't  always  win  The 
show  is  set  in  a  hospital  and  Ihe  lighter  side  of  life 
IS  also  shown,  making  Ihis  a  truly  balanced  show 

Wednesday  nights,  lor  an  hour,  I  set  aside  my 
English  and  psychology  lo  watch  one  of  Ihe  last 
shows  on  television  that  maintains  reality  t^any 
grateful  viewers  are  thrilled  that  this  show  was 
spared  the  ax  ol  the  network  Together  we  will 
laugh  and  cry  on  Wednesday  nighls. 


Music  review 

by 

Robert  W.  Minier 


Ihe  switch  from  rock  'n'  roll  and  liaveling 
to  tripping  Side  one  included  Mr  Tam- 
bourine Man  and  It's  All  Over  Now  The 
second  side  included  Subterranean 
Homesick  Blues  This  song  visioned  Ihe 
surreal  and  apocalypic  happening 

Shorlly  after  lurning  25,  Dylan  broke 
his  neck  in  a  motorcycle  crash  and  that 
led  to  his  disappearance  for  18  months 
Rumors  of  death,  disfigurement,  and  drug 
addiction  brought  the  Basement  Tapes 
with  The  Band  Recording  in  Nashville 
with  counlry  instrumentation,  his  voice 
had  mellowed  with  a  hint  of  compassion 
and  tunes  that  were  melodic  gave  way  to 
John  Wesley  Harding. 

At  Ihe  end  ol  the  1970's.  Dylan 
became  a  born-aqain  Christian  self- 
righteously  aimed  at  non-believers  The 
first  post-conversion  album.  Slow  Train 
Coming,  had  talented  instrumentalists. 
Later  albums  added  gospel  flavor  which 
did  not  create  much  excitement. 

Dylan's  music  was  a  liberating  in- 
fluence Ihat  opened  Ihe  mind  lo  explore 
new  channels,  and  a  polarizing  influence 
that  urged  relreat  and  alienation  This  is 
argued  in  mammoth  books  and  articles 
One  thing  is  lor  certain  -  Dylan  was  Sav- 
ed, 

Bob  Dylan  has  been  a  major  influence 
on  the  philosophy  of  young  people  for 
over  20  years.  Thanks  to  him;  he  gave  us 
a  Shot  ol  Love. 


Letters 


Letters  to  SPOTLIGHT  readers  may  be 
sent  or  delivered  to  the  student  newspaper  of- 
fice in  Ihe  basement  of  Ihe  Academic  Cenler 
Letters  should  be  no  more  than  300  words 
Leiiers  cannot  be  published  without  Ihe 
signature  of  the  writer 


Rebecca  A  Gnffiih. 
food  and  iiospHaliiy 
managemeni  siudeni 
(rom  Cariion:  "I  don'i 
Ihink  SI)  Just  because 
siie  got  pregnant  doesn't 
make  her  a  rotten  per- 


Monday,  March  12,  1984 

Question:      Does  a   pregnancy 
out-of-wedlock  have  anything  to 
do  with  being  qualified  for  the 
National  Honor  Society? 
Location:   Academic  Center 
Photos  by  Lori  M.  Lane 
Interviews  by  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 


Susan  M,  Eck, 
adverlisiing  art  student 
from  Williamsporl:  ■'No,  I 
don't  llnink  so  You 
belong  on  the  Society  if 
you  have  the  grades:  if 
you  don't  fiave  Itie 
grades  Itien  you  don't 
belong  Your  personal 
life  fias  notfiing  to  do 
with  it."  • 


f^icliael  E  Fry,  com- 
puler  science  siudeni 
friim  South  Williamspiirl: 
"I  don'i  Ihink  it  sliould 
mailer  Being  pregnant 
has  noihirig  to  do  with 
making  grades  lor  itie 
Honor  Society  " 


Scoli  D  Kriner. 
electrical  technology  stu- 
dent from  Williamsporl 
"I  thoughi  the  Honoi 
Society  had  lo  do  with 
academic  skills,  not  your 
personal  lile  " 


Babette  A  ■  Flyn 
word  processing  siudeni 
from  Mill  Hall  "No. 
definitely  not  If  you  can 
meet  all  ihe  qualifica- 
tions, being  pregnani  lias 
nothing  to  do  with  it  " 


Todd  W  Grissirigei. 
machine  tool  technulogy 
student  from  Husion- 
town;  "Yes.  ii  does  H  is 
going  against  God's  prin- 
ciples of  marriage  " 


Kaihy  J  Kistner. 
computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Jersey  Shore 
'No  What  does  the 
brain  have  to  do  with  the 
body''" 


Whaddya...say? 


8     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  March  12.  1984 

LETTERS 

Passes  being  'abused 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

The  initamural  Aihletics  and  College  Ac- 
iivihes  Ollice  was  coniaded  by  John  Kiehl  o 
ihe  Williamsporl  Bureau  of  Transporialion  mat 
a  (ew  siudenis  are  laking  advantage  o1  the 
reduced  rale  available  lor  (ull-l.me  siudenis 
Pari-iime  studenis  -  who  ate  ineligible  lor  ihis 
reduced  rate  -  are  mampulaling  their  ID  cards 
t(i  make  them  appear  valid  ^     ,    ,„, 

The  bus  company  oilers  a  reduced  rale  lor 
lull-time  studenis  at  ihe  College  and  it  is  each 
individuals  responsibility  lo  honor  this  service 

I  sincerely  hope  those  abusing  the  sysiem 
will  reconsider  belore  doing  so  again 

(Mrs.)  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti 

Coordinator 

Inlramural  Athletics  and  College  Activities 

Someday,  it  could  be 
someone  you  love... 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

Dear  students,  faculty,  and  slall; 

As  Ihe  date  of  the  Bloodmobile  rapidly  ap- 
proaches. I  would  like  to  extend  my  concern 
and  expectaiions  m  respect  to  ihis  event 
scheduled  lor  tomorrow  and  Wednesday 

My  concerns  locus  on  the  lack  of  people 
Willing  to  give  blood  while  the  demand  con- 
tinues to  increase  Recently,  there  have  been 
many  articles  in  newspapers  and  on  television 
urging  all  people,  who  are  able,  lo  consider 
donating  a  pint  ol  blood 

Since  Ihe  Bloodmobile  now  is  coming  lo 
this  College  for  our  help,  I  see  n  as  a  qreai  op- 
poriuniiy  to  save  or  better  Ihe  life  of  someone 
thai  IS  less  fortunate  man  our  own.  lor  some- 
day, ii  may  m  fact  be  someone  we  love  very 
much  ihat  needs  blood  lo  survive 

In  respect  lo  expectations,  mine  are  quite 
high  The  Bloodmobile  unii  has  set  a  goal  of 
550  pinis  Being  one  of  approximately  3.000 
students  here  al  Ihe  College.  I  know  our  poten- 
tial IS  much  higher  considering  all  the  students, 
facully.  and  staff  that  are  eligible  lo  take  one 
hour  in  a  day  and  save  a  life. 

I  am  pleading  wilh  you  on  behalf  of  those 
dying  due  to  the  lack  ol  blood  and  blood 
subsiances  to  please  lake  an  hour  lo  donate 
one  pinl  of  blood  either  tomorrow  or  Wednes- 
day in  our  College  gymnasium  Someday,  it 
could  be  you  or  someone  you  love  in  need  - 
and  what  better  gift  is  there  than  Ihe  gill  ol  lile  to 
any  human  being'' 

My  deepest  thanks  and  appreciation  lo  all 
ol  you 

Ruth  A.  Fischer 
president.  Student  Government 


Gamma  Epsilon  Tau 
holding  raffle  to  benefit 
field  trip  to  Kodak 

Ciaitima  Epsilon  Tau,  ihc  gtapliit  ans 
fraii-niiiy.  is  having  a  "money"  raffle.  All  pro- 
eeeds  will  go  lottard  uiiderwrliinii  an  educational 
Held  trip  10  inur  the  Easiniaii  Kodak  Cortipany 
ill  Roiliesict,  N.Y.,  aeeordiiiL'  lo  Edward  C. 
Siodriard,  itrapliie  ans  siudcm  Imm  Pun\- 
sulattiiev  and  cluh  presidcm. 

riic  donaiioiis  arc  $1  per  liekcl  and  ilic 
drawiim  ttill  be  held  ai  8:.10  a.m.,  Monday, 
April  2. 

There  «ill  be  three  winnin!!  liekci.s  drawn. 
llic  firsl  pri/c  IS  S50;  second  and  third  pri/cs arc 
$25  each. 

The  Held  irip  is  open  to  all  eurrieulums  and 
the  public  is  also  invited,  said  Sloddard. 

Mote  inl'ormalion  .about  ihc  field  irip  is 
available  fnnii  Harold  L.  NcvvKm.  graphic  arts 
insirucior.  or  Charles  E.  Earle,  graphic  arts  siu- 
deni  from  Tmy,  at  College  Exi.  400. 

McNally:  See  us  if 
you  got  a  below-grade 

The  week  of  Feb.  27  marked  the  mid- 
semcsler  poini  al  the  College.  Inslruelors  could, 
al  ihal  point,  submit  "below  grades"  for 
siudenis  who  had  a  D  i>r  an  F,  according  lo 
Thomas  M.  McNally,  counselor  in  Ihe  Counsel- 
ing, Career  Development,  and  Placcmcnl  Office. 

McNally  noicd  ihat  if  a  siudeni  received  a 
htrmal  nolicc  of  a  "below  grade",  there  will  be  a 
note  at  the  bolioni  of  ihe  form  advising  Ihe  stu- 
dent to  consult  his  or  her  adviser. 

A  nolicc  wilh  iwo  or  more  "below  grades" 
requires  ihc  studcnl  lo  make  an  appointmcnl 
with  a  counselor. 

Appointments  should  be  made  as  soon  a.s 
possible,  McNally  .said. 

The  purpose  of  the  mecling  wilh  a  member 
of  Ihc  counseling  staff  is  lo  asecrlain  the  ap- 
propriateness of  the  curriculum  choice,  to  deter- 
mine if  there  are  any  specific  reasons  for  Ihe  low 
grades  and  lo  make  recommendations  lo  im- 
prove future  academic  performance,  McNally 
said. 


Monday.  March  12,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     9 

National  newsletter  features 
Individualized  Learning  Center 

The  College's  Individualized  Learning  Ccnicr  for  Typcwriling  and  Word  Processing  was 
ihe  focus  of  an  arlicle  in  The  Leader,  a  naiional  ncwsleiier  published  quarierly  wiih  an  em- 
phasis on  poslsecondary  business  eduiaiion. 

The  ardcle  poinlcd  out  Ihal  one  of  ihe  College's  fasiesi  growini!  areas  is  ihe  Business  and 
Computer  Science  Divisicni. 

Since  Ihe  ccnler's  incepiion  in  ihe  Fall  1982  semesier.  ihc  division  has  used  ihe  Audio- 
Visual  Tutorial  (AVT)  Learning  System  in  connection  with  typing  courses  taught  there. 

The  AVT  Learning  System  combines  slide/tape  lessons  and  textbook  exercises  performed 
by  the  student  with  minimal  instructor  supervision. 

Dr.  Donald  B.  Bcrgerstock,  director  of  business  and  computer  science,  described  Miss 
Patricia  J.  Shoff,  associate  professor  of  business  administration,  as  "the  engineer  of  the  entire 
AVT  project." 

Miss  Shoff,  In  turn,  referred  lo  a  student  evaluation  survev  undertaken  during  the  center's 
first  .semester  of  operation. 

She  said  that  93  percent  of  the  students  polled  appreciated  being  able  lo  work  ai  ihcir  own 
pace,  91  percent  said  they  learned  more  in  an  individualized  selling,  and  86  percent  preferred 
the  non-traditional  AVT  typing  cla.ss  lo  the  lradiii(nial  (drill  in.sirucli(m)  class. 

The  complete  arlicle  appeared  in  the  January  1984  issue  of  The  Leader.  The  Leader  is 
published  by  the  HBJ  Media  Systems  Corporation,  a  subsidiary,  or  branch,  of  Harcourl  Brace 
Jovanovich  Incorporated.  According  lo  Miss  Shoff,  Harcourl  Brace  Jovanovich  is  (nic  of  the 
largest  U.S.  publishing  companies. 

Miss  Shoff  added  ihal  the  division  currently  purchases  hardware  and  software  for  the 
center  from  the  corporation. 

Hardware  includes  carrels,  slide  projectors,  tape  recorders  and  hcadscis.  Software  in- 
cludes Ihe  slide/tape  lessons  used  for  the  typing,  secretarial  procedures,  and  some  of  the  word 
processing  classes  currently  laugh!  in  the  center. 

Dr.  Breuder:  Bloodmobile  is  a  chance 

TO  GIVE  OF  SELF  IN  ORDER  TO  SAVE  A  LIFE 

With  a  Bloodmobile  visit  scheduled  loinorrow  and  Wcdncsdav,  Dr.  Robert  L  Breuder 
College  presidcnl,  has  expressed  inlercsl  in  encouraging  siudcnl  in'volvcmcnl 

Dr.  Breuder  n<ncd,  "There  has  aluavs  been  a  Icndcncv  lo  look  k,  „i|icrs  k,  aiu-  or 
donate"  but.  he  added,  the  visit  is  a  chance  for  those  people  lo  ui\c  of  ihemschcs  in  o'rdcr  lo 
save  a  life. 

He  reminded  'hat  il  "only  lakes  an  hour"  of  linic  lo  donale  a  pint  of  blood  lh-il  will 
"someday  save  somonic  you  mighl  nol  even  know  -  and  probablv  will  never  know  But  ihc 
feeling  you  get  from  knowing  you  gave  nnsellishlv  so  ihai  someone  iniaht  survive  is 
wonderful."  .  ' 

This  year's  goal  has  been  set  at  550  pints,  accordini;  lo  Mrs.  JoAnn  R  Frcmiolii  coor- 
dinator of  miramural  aihlclics  and  College  aciiviiics.  The  visii  will  be  in  the  gvmnasiun't  fr.nn 
9:45  a.m.  to  .V45  p.m.  tomorrow  and  Wednesday. 


CAR  SPEAKERS   -  FOR  SALE  TROUBLE  WITH  CALCULATOR? 
Triax  III  Box  100  Walls,  $70.  Pyle  Driver                    Ones  V"ur  caicHlaliir  single  number  key  or 
6x9  Co-Ax,  55  Wads,  $60.  Both  new  in  second  hinellim  kev  nnl  nperale  properly?  SEE 
boxes.  Conlaci  Doug  afler  5  p.m.  322-4078.  NOTICE  AND  SI(;N-UP  SHEET  IN  TU  lOR- 
INC  CENTER  BEFORE  END  OK  WEEK. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  March  12,  1984 


Board  of  Trustees  approves 
various  personnel  changes 


The  CoIImc  Beard  cf  iruMa".  licM  ilicir 
niiiiiihly  iiicciiiig  lasi  Mmuliiy  in  ilic  AukhikiiIm' 
Trader  CciHcr.  Adioii  wa'.  lakcii  kh  nia.iy  pcf- 
■.tMiMcl  liciils  iini'Ivirit  cnii'lcnincMi  tliaii;:i.'v 

The  iiCMi'.  »cic  priM-mal  a-,  die  |H"|i"sal 
Inr  appri'val  and  were  iinanliiKMi'.ly  .ippimed. 
Ihey  iiiehided: 

Rciircmcni  nf  l-'cank  D.  Iiihiici.  uiM'uhaii, 
general  serines,  cITeeme  .Ian.  27.  1984,  beeaiisc 
of  disahihiy.  |-uhner  has  heen  emplined  hy  ihc 
Colleee  sin'ee  Nmeiiiber  1969. 

Resienaiioii  o\  Mrs.  I  inda  1..  Kepncr,  PBX 
(iperaior/rceepii'iiiisi  rellel,  business  iiperaiicns, 
elleiinc  I'ob.  27,  1984,  'o  .luepi  "Hier  eiriploy- 
nreni. 

Resienaiion  of  .Iciseph  K.  Mmne,  eeneral 
Miaimenanie  wurkei,  general  scr\iecs,  elTeeiise 
leb.  .V  1984,  liir  personal  reasorrs. 

Transfer  nf  Mrs.  Marilyn  (i.  Bi'dnar  fionr 
easiial  pari-iiirre  rel'erenec  librarian  ui 
eaialoeer/readei  serviees,  l.carnini]  Resmirees 
Cenier,  elfceii\e  Jan.  M).  1984,  al  an  annual 
l2-rn(inih  salary  of  $17,1)00,  lo  be  prc-raicd  for 
ilie  balanec nf  ihe  llseal  year.  Iliis  is  a  new  posi- 
ii(ni  whieli  rcplaees  ihe  position  \aeaied  when 
Mrs.  Sandra  E.  ,Sehwari/  resiaircd. 

Approval  of  a  personal  leave  of  absence 
wiihoul  pay  h<r  Harvey  H.  Kiilins,  assoeiaic  prc- 
lessoi,  eeonoirries,  Inieeraied  Sludies,  cffceiive 
Ian.  27  ihroiieh  MarehX  1984. 

Knrployincni  of  Mrs.  Kailiy  Dumanis  as 
leiiipoiary  Irill-iirne  replaeeirrcni  insinieior, 
ceoncnnies,  inieuraied  smdies,  effeeiive  Jan.  27 
ilnoueli  March  9,  1984,  al  an  annual  172-day 
salary  of  $19,5.W,  lo  be  pro-raicd  for  ihe  above 
period.    Mrs.  Dumanis  leplaecs  Mr.  Kiihns. 

Employincni  of  Ms.-  Lisa  M.  Sehuh/  as  a 
leinporary  regular  pari-iiinc  foods  labmaiory. 


SPOTLIGHT  on  Tuesday 

Because  of  ihe  scheduled  "no  class/siuiw 
make-up  day"  nc\l  Monday,  The  SPOTLIGHT 
will  be  published  on  Tuesday  and  will  be 
available  al  ihe  usual  loeali(nis,  according  lo  Ms. 
Joan  L.  Thompsmi,  managing  edilor. 


eqiiipineni  and  supplies  assisunn,  healih  ser- 
vices, elfeciive  Kcb.  13  ilirough  May  4.  1984,  al 
an  hourly  raie  of  $5.9.S.   This  is  a  new  posilion. 

In  addiiion  In  ihc  professiniial  changes  in 
Ihe  College's  siall,  .seveial  service  pcrs(nnicl 
ihanees  were  also  approved  al  ilw  meeiiiig;. 

Also  approved  ai  ihe  mceMng  was  llic  ap- 
pinnimenl  lo  non-probaiionary  siaius  for  Ms. 
Daria  L.  Brown,  insirucioi  of  denial  hygiene; 
Roy  P.  Komaine,  insiiucior  of  psychology; 
Pciiy  R.  (ioischal,  insirucior  of  clecironics;  Dr. 
Richard  M.  .Sweeney,  professor  of  English,  and 
Donald  A.  Waliman,  assisiani  professor  of  elcc- 

Probaiionaiy  facnhy  members  who  will 
receive  noiices  of  non-ieappoiniineni  include 
Paiiick  (1.  Hcrnocco,  insirucior  of  coinpulcr 
science;  Donald  K.  Bower,  insirucior  of  clecirical 
Icchnology,  and  David  A.  Lou,  insiiucior  of 
lompiner  science. 


ELEVATOR  NOW 

FOR  HANDICAPPED: 

KEYS  NEEDED 

Effective  today,  the  elevator  in  Ihe 
Academic  Center  will  be  operable  by  key 
iinly. 

Keys  will  be  issued  iinly  lo  persons 
with  handicaps  and  to  authorized  persons 
handlln)!  freight. 

In  order  lo  obtain  a  key,  interested 
persons  must  complete  an  application  al 
the  Security  Office  in  the  General  Services 
Building  al  Ihe  foot  of  Park  Street. 

However,  wheelchair  applicants 
should  call  Ihe  Security  Office  (College 
I'xi.  223)  and  arrangements  will  be  made 
to  handle  their  application,  according  to  a 
General  Services  spokesperson. 

There  will  be  a  $3-per-key  charge, 
but  Ihe  fee  is  refundable  upon  return  of 
the  kev  Lost  keys  will  cost  $10  to  be 
replaced 


Monday,  March  12,  1984 


Councilman  discusses  city's  woes 
in  talk  to  government  class 

By  Roberl  0.  Hawk,  iil  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

C'iiy  Councilman  Michael  R.  J.  Felix  was  ihc  gucsl  speaker  in  ihe  alicrnoon  session  of  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle's  slale  and  local  govcrnmeni  class  on  Feb,  27. 

The  lopic  was  municipal  governmcni.  In  his  opening  remarks,  Felix  sialed  ihal 
Willianispori  is  Ihe  hub  of  a  16-couniy  area  in  which  the  cily  is  responsible  for  the  collection  of 
school  district  and  city  taxes. 

Responding  to  question.s  about  those  taxes,  Felix  commented  that  many  people  have  voic- 
ed the  opinion  that  city  taxes  are  too  high.  He  maintained  that  city  taxes  arc  not  unusually 
high,  but  that  school  district  taxes  have  risen  a  gre,ii  deal. 

Further,  the  city  councilman  expressed  disdain  for  the  city's  "nuisance"  taxes.  He  .said  if 
his  suggestions  were  carried  out,  those  taxes  would  be  cimibined  into  one  across-the-board  tax 
ihal  would  apply  to  all  working  people  and  create  a  stable  revenue  base  for  Ihe  cily. 

Continuing,  Felix  staled  thai  due  to  previous  city  administrati(ni  policies,  the  city  has  noi 
.set  aside  sufficient  funds  for  the  cily  pensicm  fund  and  is  currently  $11  million  "in  the  hole". 

The  councilman  noted  that  the  City  Council  must  improve  this  situation  with  revenue 
from  somewhere  and  all  options  for  possible  revenue  sources  are  being  investigated  -  as  is  a 
determination  of  which  are  the  truly  important  city  services. 

Commenting  further  on  the  City  Council's  dilemma,  Felix  .said  that  local  govcrnmeni  has 
been  asked  by  the  President  to  shoulder  more  responsibility.  The  money,  however,  has  not 
been  forthcimiing.  Funds  are  allotted  in  block  grants  and  they  arc  competed  for  by  all  the 
municipal  governments  in  Pennsylvania,  he  told  the  class. 

Summarizing  his  view  of  the  role  of  cily  governmcni,  Felix  stated  that  the  city  is  responsi- 
ble for  deciding  where  services  should  be  placed,  what  they  should  be,  and  how  much  should  be 
spent.  One  way  to  generate  funds  for  these  services  is  in  the  development  of  "venlure  capital" 
offering  incentives  to  business  and  industry  to  locate  here  as  well  as  programs  for  worker  train- 
ing. 

In  closing.  Councilman  Felix  expressed  his  hope  that,  with  wise  investments  and  prudent 
handling  of  the  pension  system,  by  the  year  2000,  Williamsporl  will  be  fiscally  "sitting  pretty". 

Continuing  a  series  of  guest  speakers  on  the  subject  of  municipal  government.  Dr.  Doyle 
will  today  hast  another  speaker  in  morning  and  afternoon  sessicms. 


"Wood  is  our  business" 
WOOD  TECHNOLOGIES 

WE  ARE  OFFERING  A  HIGH 
QUALITY  14"  X  12"  x  2" 
HARDWOOD  CUTTING  BOARD  I 
FOR  SALE 


CALL  547-1661 


^^:{^/^-?g^::^s???^ 


Outing  Club  members 
discuss  need  for  referees 
of  white-water  canoe  races 

Members  of  the  Outing  Club  met  Wednes- 
day, Feb.  29,  and  discussed  the  need  for 
volunteers  to  referee  white-water  canoe  races  in 
Wesser,  N.C.,  July  3  through  6. 

Also  on  the  agenda  was  the  discussion  of 
cleaning  and  clearing  the  mid-state  trail 
sometime  in  April,  according  to  Steven  T. 
McDonald,  media  technician  and  the  club's  ad- 
viser. 

Another  meeting  will  soon  be  scheduled. 
Student  interest  must  be  heightened  or  the  club 
will  be  .dissolved,  McDonald  said. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  March  12,  1984 


Rad's  Raiders,  Phi  Slamma  Jamma,  Slatron 


l'liiiiii\  hy  Mary  I .  I'ai\e 
01  lilt  SI'OII  Killl  Sluff 


KORGOITEN  FOR  A  FEW  HOURS 

during  the  evenings  are  exams  and 
homework  assignments  as  players  discuss 
game  siralegy  (o  prepare  themselves 
menially... 


...until  (he  pressure  sets  in!  Spikers  and 
setmen  delve  into  action  as  the  volleyball 
games  begin.  From  the  look  on  this 
player's  face,  it's  likely  that  the  games 
pay  off...  in  blood,  sweat,  and  tears. 
But  mostly  sweat. 


.and  physically.. 


Monday,  March  12,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     13 

IS,  Doggers,  Chick  Chasers,  Fun  Bunch.... 


Design  by  Mary  I.,  /'ease 

unci  Joan  L.  Tliompson 

Of  The  SPOrilGHT  Sniff 


This  spiker  has  his  head  up  as  he  an- 
licipa(es  (he  ball's  direclion  and  the 
olher  team's  playing  strategy,  hoping  In 
eventually... 


A  player  grimaces 

with  expectations 

of  the  ball 

being  "in"  or  "out" 

of  bounds. 

Another 

satisfied  player 

applauds  with 

enthusiasm  as  one 

of  the  victors  calls 

for  another  game 


t*— 


14     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  March  12.  1984 


WVftS  if^ir 


YOUR 
TICKET   TO 
THE  MOST  EXCITING 


TURN  US  ON 


F 


Creative  Kitchen 

Monday,  March  12 

Fresh  Fruil  Cup 

Bar-B-Que  Chicken 

or 

Bar-B-Quc  Spare  Ribs 

Perogis 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Mixed  Greens  wilh  Sweel  and  Sour  Sauce 

Brown  Bread  Squares 

Rocky  Mounlain  Lime  Dessert 

Wednesday,  March  14 

llalian  Wedding  Soup 

Lasagna 

Tossed  Green  Salad 

wilh  Herb  Dressing 

Mixed  Italian  Vegetables 

Sicilian  Bread 

Italian  Zuccotto 

Thursday,  March  15 

Pennsylvania  Dulch  Menu 

Onion  Soup  au  Gratin 
Hot  Chicken  and  Dumplings 

smothered  with  Gravy 

Steamed  Peas  and  Carrots 

Crudite 

Pennsylvania  Dulch  Apple  Tart 

Coffee,  lea,  iced  lea,  milk  and  water  served 

with  all  meals.    Meals  cost  $3.    Soups  served 

with  homemade  rolls.    Desserts  are  a  la  carte. 


Intramural 
Volleyball 
Schedule 

Intramural  volleyball  activities  for 
Ihis  week,  according  to  a  schedule  pro- 
vided by  the  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities  office  are: 
Today,  6:30  p.m. 

Inductcrs  vs.  Phi  Slamma  Jamma. 

Fun  Bunch  vs.  Rad's  Raiders. 
7:30  p.m. 

Slraub  Greenies  vs.  Gooch's  Go 
Getters. 

Fun  Bunch  vs.  Rad's  Raiders. 

Ball  Bangers  vs.  Radkc's  Raiders. 

Magnificent  7  vs.  Brown  House  II. 
Wednesday,  March  14 
6:30  p.m. 

Inductcrs  vs.  Fun  Bunch. 

Phi   Slamma   Jamma    vs.    Rad's 
Raiders. 

7:30  p.m. 

Straub  Greenies  vs.  Fun  Bunch. 

Magnificent  7  vs.  Chickchasers. 

Brown    House    II    vs.    Radke's 
Raiders. 

Boars  vs.  I.P.T. 

Killer  Watts  vs.  Slatrons. 
Thursday,  March  15 
6:30  p.m. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  vs.  Spike  Force. 

Cool  Kids  vs.  Comrads. 

Atomic  Power  vs.  Bums. 

Sewer  Rats  vs.  Agricultural  Brew 
Crew. 

7:30  p.m. 

Killer  Watts  vs.  Doggers. 

Slatrons  vs.  I.P.T. 

Slraub  Greenies  bye  over  Budmen. 

Brown  House  Barbarians  vs.  Muff- 
divers. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  vs.  Comrads. 

Spike  Force  vs.  Spike  Sellers. 


IM  activities  canceled  tomorrow 

The  Bardo  Gym  will  be  closed  tomorrow 
due  to  the  Bloodmobile  visit.  Several  activities 
will  be  rescheduled,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 


Monday.  March  12,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     15 


Mark  E.  Reamsnyder  rolls  276 


Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business  maiiagc- 
menl  sludcnl  from  Williamspori,  bnwlcd  a  276 
in  iiiiramural  bowling  aciion  lasl  Tuesday, 
Mareli  6. 

Reamsnyder  mainiained  a  1%  average  for 
the  day  and  held  llie  high  series  and  high  singles 
positions. 

Other  results  according  to  records  provided 
by  ABC  Lanes  arc: 

Team  slandings 
Team  Wins  Liisses 

1.  CU-JO  19        5 

2.  Destroyers  16        8 

3.  Cillo-Etts  15        9 

4.  Bonchcads  14'/;      9'/j 

5.  Head  Pins  14        10 

6.  High  Rollers  14        10 

7.  Dew  Crew  14        10 

8.  Mad  Hatters  11        B 

9.  Unpredictables  8'/;      IS'/j 

10.  Flinlsloncs  6         18 

11.  Bandits  5         19 

12.  No  Names  4        20 

Men's  high  singles 

Reamsnyder,  276. 

Frank  J.  Scbcr,  electrical  technology  slu- 
dcnl from  ScranUni.  2.32. 

Edward  A.  Moore,  agribusiness  student 
from  Shaven  own,  215. 

Women's  high  singles 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science  student 
from  Cogan  Station,  172. 

Linda  S.  Shoup,  business  inanagemcni  stu- 
dent from  Elysburg,  1.39. 

Lori  M.  Lane,  journalism  student  from 
South  Williamspori,  127. 

High  team  series 

High  Rollers,  2656. 

CU-JO,  2489. 

Dew  Crew,  2470. 

Men's  high  series 

Reamsnyder,  741. 

Scber,  683. 

Scott  R.  Minidschcin,  electrical  occupatiinis 
sludcnl  from  Coplay,  568. 

Women's  high  series 

King,  448. 

Shoup,  394. 

Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer  science  slu- 
dcnl from  Williamspori,  352. 


High  team  single 

High  Rollers,  971. 
Bandiis,  885. 
Cillo-Ells,  883. 

Top  five  averages 

Scber,  215. 

Reamsnyder,  196. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
student  from  Fredricksburg,  183. 

Mylcs  S.  Murray,  carpcniry  construction 
student  fr<ni\  Wayne,  New  Jersey,  172. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  eledrical  consiruciion 
sludeni  from  Shohola,  170. 

Table  tennis  clinic  tomorrow 

A  pretournamenl  clinic  for  tabic  icnnis  will 
be  held  tomorrow,  in  Room  102,  Bardo  Gym. 
The  clinic  is  from  4:.30  to  6:.30  p.m.,  according 
to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  iii- 
iramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

Persons  wanting  lo  participate  in  the  tour- 
nament should  attend  the  clinic,  Mrs.  Frcmiolli 
said. 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Today 

Weight  room...  4  lo  10  p.m. 
Basketball  league...  4  lo  6  p.m. 
Volleyball  league...  6;30  lo  8:30  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8:30  lo  9:30  p.m. 

Tomorrow 
Bowling...  4  to  6  p.m. 
Volleyball...  will  be  rescheduled  after 
completion  of  league  play. 

Wednesday,  March  14 
Weight  room  ...  4  to  10  p.m. 
Basketball  league...  4  lo  6:30  p.m. 
Volleyball  league...  6:30  lo  8:30  p.m. 
Open  gym...  8:30  to  10  p.m. 

Thursday,  March  15 
Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 
Soccer...  4  lo  6:30  p.m. 
Volleyball  league...  6:30  to  8:15  p.m. 
Basketball  league...  8:15  lo  10  p.m. 


•     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  March  12,  1984 

FROM  ONE  COMPLEX  CHARACTER  TO  ANOTHER... 

,..Sii''rii  Rhxr  .('/■' ■V.'vr  circriiins  iimliciice 

l-loc'i  iiicmbcn  i>f  till-  Uliv'iiisbur'j  riit-aitc  Kiiscmhlc  (UTE)  rctcai'al  SO  dilliiO'' 
.'i.M.u  irK,  Miikl'-iinrii!  lionHlM'.  <"■'  ■•"c  omui'Iia  iliiiiiK  it  .iIit  ,i.1'"1ht  mi  |-ilv.ii  Ice 
\\,u  i-i  \.S>  •  I-  Ki'i'  All  '••  A  i;\-  ;i'  8  p.m.  la'.  Tlilirsiliiy  m  'Ik  Ai:ukv,'K  (V'l  I'l  Amh  ■■'iimi. 

Ali.Mii  75  iKU'ii^  ir  C'ldcd  'lie  i'i'il''iMiii''a'. 

A  liiiiii"f.  11'.  ;i  "(I  I'Mii! plav . i'/i' ■■ '"  Rini  /!«.','.)/. 'i;r  is  ab'-iii  ilic  pcplc  "I  a  sn-a"  I'- 
ll ■•■iv  iiwii,  Sp""»  KiMT,  Willi  I'  inc  ba.  k  'n  Iilc  '"  'cll  I'f  'ln'it  Incs,  ■.ui'iilal'iii.'-  '■("■'.ip.  U"vcil- 
cil  siiK-s  111  jiH  !•  vc,  ilii«aial  ambi  !■  ^is  a^ul  iiiil.ii'>ttii  miiu'ssi".. 

I  he  iliai  ill' I'll.  ii|.V».i  »  Rivci  Ai'  '■  I'  !;i'  icvcal  n  ilic  aiulicnu.'  in  di'M'h  wliai  Ih'v  n'li'd 
•1.-   \.\\  i.i  \ik- 

Sii..  II  Rnri  Ai':-I'  '^v  i'.  ".I'l  AiiHHuiii  ;  l.isMi-  ai  i".  Ih".'"  va'al  diioi  "i  Raid  Whip- 

Dniilliic  Rni.  II  In-  Kitv  M.  hiiuc.  nf  Vr  SPOlllUHT  ■'ill/ 


North  Campus  information  session  next  week 

Ciiiirlesy  College  liifiirnialinn  Office 

Infiirmaiion  vilal  m  person.'!  inlcreslcd  in  enrolling  in  College  al  the  North  Campus  will  be 
a\iiilable  iic\l  Monday,  March  19,  according  to  Dr.  Cathryn  Addy,  North  Campus  director. 

On  thai  day,  an  informational  scs.sion  will  be  held  at  the  Wellsboro  RD  North  Campus  al 
7:.TO  p.m. 

Rcpresentaiivcs  from  the  North  Campus  as  well  as  from  the  College's  Admission.s  Office 
and  Financial  Aid  Office  will  be  on  hand  to  answer  questions. 

The  director  said  answers  will  be  provided  to  such  frequently-asked  questions  such  as: 
How  do  I  gel  started?  Where  do  I  get  money?  Am  I  too  old?  What  is  available  for  me?  Is  grant 
money  siill  available?  What  courses  or  programs  are  available? 

She  added  that  representatives  will  also  be  available  to  discuss  the  business  programs  and 
piaclital  nursing  program. 

Refreshments  will  be  served. 


BENSON 


tflfil  mini   ^ 
f»Mnjnarket 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Maynord  Sts. 
Open     24     hours! 

Cramming  all  niglii  f<ir  an  exam  i         i 

£iin  Kive  vou  Ihe  MUNCHIES!  WC  HCVer  ClOSCl 


Monday.  March  12.  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     17 


NOW,  THAT'S  AN  A-1  JOB 


Onf  cil  Ihi'  mam  displins  dmini;  llic  tdllcm-  Open  Hmhm Sundiu.  Miiich  25  "ill  In 

ilii'  SiHMndarv  An'"  lt"d\  Rcpuii  displ;i\,  Aiii'"!!;  Hie  Mliidrs  "ii  divphu  will  lie  Hiis  l'»7.? 
C'liofllc  Mallhii  "WMiil  l»  Miiliiiil  I ,  R:m;iM.  i.l  CaMiM.i  Rl)  2.    Ramin,  ;i  sen.. .  a   Cai  ■  i 

Hii;!!  Schnnl.  is  aKii  cui'.llcd  in  ilicSii Ian  Aiih.  I!i.d\  Rrpaii  imr.iiu  ai  die  ('■  lu-r.    I  if 

{■auinii  sniii.i  spcni  al.' iH  SO  li"inv  «"iki'iu  f.n  his  iiii  in  Ihc  Sn Ian  Sir  p  a^  Hu'  (■..Hilm  . 

Ho  icpaiirl  ilic  li'.d\.  icin'Md  dcms I  iiisi.  pui  a  li"'(l  sii...p i.  and  did  a  ms'  m 

paini  jnli.  Mil'  iipaii/iiliiiliisliiiiu/pain'  pli  lias  iniii-ascd  llic  \aiiic  "I  li-i-  lai  In  ali  ii' 
$l,.?(l(i.  Rauan  paid  S50(l  l-i  'Uv  lai  and  lias  piii  SISfl  inM.  ■!,(•  au<i>  l".d\  jnli.  N'.i  pmilni- 
lalK,  he  rcrnxnl  an  "A"  I' i  Ins  «Mik.  //'•,-    ,-  u,  oi  C.Hr^t  // '■  '■  ■!/'■  ■   O/''- / 


r 


Highspeed  High  Fidelity. 


% 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


/ILPINE  Williamspcrl 

cat  audio  systems  25  W.  Church  Si. 

(In  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building)       323-2622 
:^==i(Behind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)^=^==^— 


J 


Monday,  March  12,  1984 


Practical  nursing 

commencement  held; 

awards  presented 

■kSiwciul  Oniiicsi  Rc/iiiil  fioin  Culli'ite  lii/iiniuilinii  0(lkc 

,SiMci  Bniilcni,'  Wclnicr,  adniiiiiMriilur  of  Di\iiic  I'rcniclciiLC  Hi)S|iil;il,  Willianisporl,  was 
silii-diilcd  i<i  he  iiiicM  speaker  ilils  paM  l-'ridav  when  praiiieal  iiiir'.iiii;  eummeiKcmeiil  evereise". 
«eie  held  al  Ihe  Colleee. 

I  hiriy-si\  praeiiial  nurses  were  lo  receive  ecriilleaies  when  eercmnnics  were  held  al  7:.W 
p.ni, 

Dr,  Kohcrl  I,,  lireuder,  Culleiie  presideni,  was  scheduled  in  uisc  opening  remarks  and  Mi 
a»aid  eerlilieaies. 

Dr.  Russell  C.  Maueh,  dean  dlaeadenue  affairs,  was  In  prcscnl  the  graduates.  The  Rev, 
(ail  (iahiielsen  .li..  assisiani  pasinr  of  Bcihany  l.ulheran  Church,  Miinioursvillc,  was  lo  give 
ilie  iiniicali(ni  ,ind  henediclion, 

John  K,  Thompson,  associaie  dean  of  academic  affairs,  was  lo  prcscnl  awards  lo  ihree 
L'ladiiaiing  siudenls. 

Acliieveiiienis  niiled  by  awards  r 

Receiving  ihc  Helen  A,  ,Sinilh  Award  for  evlraordinary  achievcmcnl  in  Iheory,  pracliec 
and  personal  growih  was  Cheryl  K.  Bower,  of  Momoiirsvillc, 

Virginia  I  ee  Hammond,  of  Williamsporl,  was  awarded  ihc  Ellen  Harding  Berry  Nursing 
Awaid  for  onisiandini'  scholasiic  achicvemcnl  and  cxcepiional  abilily  in  praclieum  and  coin- 
iminicalion  skills. 

Receiving  Ihe  Thclma  S,  Morris  Avyard  for  dcmonslialing  oulslandiiig  qualilics  of  a  prac- 
iical  nurse  in  ihc  clinic  area  was  Cindy  A,  Colvin,  of  Williamsporl. 


I'raclical  nursing  graduaies  included: 

Cheryl  K.  Bower,  of  Monloursvillc;  Laura  l,cc  Bower,  of  Mcmloursville;  Tina  L,  Burgess, 
of  Sclinsgrovc;  Kelly  L.  Caleliuff,  of  Monloursvillc;  Arlene  M.  Carolhers,  of  Jersey  Shore  RD 
2:  Deborah  I..  Cohick,  of  DuBoislown;  Cindy  L.  Colvin,  of  Williamsporl. 

Vicki  S,  Crisi,  of  Mcuiioursvilic;  Debora  L.  Daugherly,  of  Monloursvillc;  Chrislinc  K. 
Denis,  of  William.spori;Carol  J,  Downey,  of  Monloursvillc;  Margaret  A.  Englcrl,  of  Caslanca; 
.l<ianii  M.  Cireenc,  of  .Icr.sey  Shore  RD  2. 

.Sandra  ,1.  Greenway,  of  Williamsporl;  Virginia  L,  Hammond,  of  Williamsporl;  Linda  A. 
Haner,  of  Williamsporl;  Jacklyn  P.  Hauke,  of  Williamsporl;  Donna  L,  Kennedy,  of 
Williamsporl,  Crystal  L,  Kersleller,  of  Port  Trevorton, 

Nancy  A,  Klopp,  of  Williamsporl  RD  4;  Deborah  L,  Kraft,  of  Williamsporl,  Beverly  R, 
Mallack,  of  Monloursvillc;  Barbara  E.  Mayes,  of  Mill  Hall  RD  2;  Kalhy  D.  McCloskey,  of 
Caslanca;  Teresa  J.  Nolan,  of  Williamsporl. 

Melody  B.  Palmcler,  of  Williamsporl  RD  1;  Susan  M,  Panlano,  of  Williamsporl;  Susan 
A.  Pall,  ol  Monliiursvillc;  Nancy  R.  Reich,  of  Williamsporl;  LouAun  Simpson,  of  Mon- 
loursvillc RD  I;  Belinda  A,  Snyder,  of  Woolrich. 

Michelle  J,  Tubach,  of  Forksvillc;  Mildred  A,  Waller,  of  Williamsporl  RD  2;  Carol  S 
Wiest,  of  Trevorton;  Marcia  E.  Williams,  of  Williamsporl,  and  Susan  J.  Zinck,  of  Jersey  Shore 


Bloodmobile 
IN  Gym  tomorrow 

AND  WEDNESDAY; 
NEED  URGENT, 
OFFICIALS  SAY 

There  will  be  a  BIdodmobile  visil  al  llic  Bar- 
do  Gymnasium  from  9:45  a.m.  lo  3:45  p.m. 
lomorrow  and  Wednesday,  aecording  lo  Mrs, 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiolii,  coordinalor  of  inlramural 
aihlciics  and  College  aciivilies. 

The  goal  for  Ihc  visil,  because  of  iirueni 
need,  is  550  piiils. 

All  donors  will  be  given  a  blood  pressure 
screening  eard  with  iheir  blood  pressure  in- 
dicalcd. 

Donors  will  also  receive  -  ihrough  an  agree- 
meni    between    McDonald's   and    Bloodmobile 


Monday,  March  12,  1984     .     SPOTLIGHT     .     19 

reprcseinaiivcs  -  a  McDonald's  coupon  good  for 
free  French  fries  uiih  ihc  purchase  of  anv  sand- 
ttiih. 

Bloodmobile  rcprcscnlaiives  said  ihey  arc 
liopmg  for  a  suctcssful  visil  iliis  week  --  one 
which  rcsulls  in  colleiiioii  of  ihe  goal  or  more. 

They  poiiiicd  lo  anoihcr  Bloodmobile  visil: 
One  scheduled  for  ncM  Thursday,  March  22.  al 
Ihe  Farih  Scienec  Campus  (10  a.m.  lo  2  p.m.) 
wiih  Ihe  same  hope. 

During  Ihe  lime  of  ihc  Bloodmobile  visil, 
forms  will  be  available  for  inleresled  sindeius  iii 
sign  up  for  a  firsl  aid  and  for  a  cardiopulmonary 
resuseiaialion  (CPR)  course,  she  said. 

Also,  forms  will  be  available  for  ihose 
sludcnis  inleresled  in  starling  a  County  Healih 
Improvemeni  Program  (CHIP)  including  no 
smoking,  weight  control,  and  evcrcisc. 

Mrs.  Frcmiolti  said  anyone  wishing  lo 
donate  time  or  to  pledge  to  giu-  blood  can  sign 
up  in  Ihe  Inlramural  Aihlciics  OITice.  Room  8, 
Bardo  Gym;  in  the  College  Healih  Services  Of- 
licc  (nurse's  office)  which  is  also  in  Bardo  Gym, 
or  ai  any  of  the  division  offiees. 


Get  the  high-tech  career 
you  want  when  you  want  it. 


Tlie  Navys  Delayed  Entry  Program  can  | 
guarantee  you  Itie  training  you  want,  when  you  I 
want  it.  Qualify  anc)  you  choose  the  training  you  5 
want  from  over  60  career  areas.  Then  you  may 
liave  up  to  one  full  year  before  you  report.  That  ¥ 
gives  you  time  to  do  what  you  want  lo  do  -  finish  I 
school,  travel,  or  lusl  relax.  When  you  begin  the  | 
Navy  adventure,  you  begin  witli  training  in  I 
soptiisticaled  fields  lil(e  computers,  electronics,  .1 
nuclear  power  or  communicalions.  Tlien  you  gel  % 
important  on-the-job  experience  that  lets  you  I 
become  a  master  al  llie  career  you  chose  while  jl 
you  travel  to  places  like  Greece,  Spain  and  Hong  | 
Kong.  To  find  out  more  about  llie  advantages  of  I 
V   the    Navys   Delayed    Entry   Program,    see   your  I 

V^;         /I    ill  guidance    counselor    or    call    your    local    Navy" 

-   ^^^■.'^     '(  iirfepresenlalive.     1-800-69i: 


1^f^.tt^ 


I  Ybu  can  learn  tomorrow's 
I  technologies  in  today's  Navy; 


/rs  notjustajob:^^ 

ITS  ANAD\/ENTURE  ^ 


M-nday.  March  12.  1984 


Fashion  merchandising 

students  to  stage 

fashion  show 

during  Open  House 


FashiiMi  mcaliandisiiiu  siuclcnls  will  prcscni 
a  laslilc'ii  '.liiiw  nl  2:M  p.m.  .Siiiiilay,  Macili  25, 
ill  ilif  Aiadcinii-  Cciiict  Audiinnuin.  Tins  cvcm 
Bill  be  |ircsciiicd  in  ti>ii|iiiiclinii  wilh  ilic  Cnlla'C 
Open  HiniM'. 

Aaiirdiiii!  ui  Miss  I'lincbc  H.  riiiMnpsoii, 
biiMiicss  iiiaiiaL'cniCMi  suidcui  rmiii  WilliaiiispoTi 
■Hid  piihlmiy  siipcrvisur,  ilic  slunv's  piiipusc  will 
be  lo  dciiHiiisiraic  pmpci  amic  Im  suites'.  In  ilie 
business  wurld. 

AppiiiMinaicly  30  .siiidenis  will  be  inxubed 
111  all  pliases  nf  ilic  sbciw's  pnidiiciion  Innn  siaee 
liehiiny  111  ihe  drcssine'  riKini,  she  said. 

Miss  Valeric  .1.  Haydnek,  ednidiiiainr,  In- 
dnidiiali/ed  l.cainiiiii  Ccniei  for  Typewriiiiig 
and  Wiird  Prdeessiiiji,  and  Mrs.  Biniiiic  R. 
Tayldf,  assneiaic  prufcssur  (if  business  ad- 
inini.siraiiiin,  will  a.s.si.sl  ihc  .siudciii.s. 

Slide  preseiiialion  features  Vesuvius 

"A  Day  in  ilie  I  ilc  dl'  I'diiipcii",  ilic  enip- 
iid.i  dl  Vesuvius  ill  79  A.I).,  will  be  diseiissed  h\ 
l)i.  NhIk'I.is  Haiiniaii  diiiini:  a  slide  piesema- 

.1    2  p  111.  iliis  Samiday  ai  ihe  James  V. 

liidwii  I  ibi.in  III  ddttiiidwn  Willianispdri. 

llieie  IS  .v<  eliaiae  (•»  ihe  phuMani. 

1)1.  Il.iiinian  is  assiniaied  wuh  ilie  U.mer- 
si A  (i|  l'eii.is\l\a'iia  Museum  as  an  auiiaedldnv 


Come  Rel;ix  -  Meet  your  Friends 
Play  Video  and  Pinbali 

Special 

Free  Can  ^'f  Soda  Wilh  Any  Whole  Sub 
Week  of  3-12  lo  3-16 
Wilh  This  Ad 


Mddelhni!  ehnhes  hir  ihe  shdw  will  be  male 
and  Icmalc  members  of  ihe  College  faeully 
elidsen  by  Ihe  sludcnls. 

Addiiidnally,  in  eonjunelion  wilh  ihc  lOlh 
Annual  Business  Symposium,  fashuni  inerehau- 
disiiiu  siudciiis  will  presciii  anoiher  lashion  show 
ai  \M)  p.m.  Friday,  Mareh  30  in  ibc 
.iiidiidriiim 

"Fashiiin  Pi/a//"  will  be  Mareh  30  show's 
llieme.  As  in  Ihe  earlier  show,  sludcnls  will  be 
iiuolvcd  in  all  pha.scs  of  produelion.  Approx- 
iniaicly  25  sludcnls  will  parlieipalc,  said  Mi.ss 
Tliompsdii. 

Fasliidii  merchandising  sludcnls  will  also 
iiiddel  ouifiis  supplied  by  local  rclail  cloihing 
esiablishmcnis.  Rcibcri  L.  Lyons,  assislani  pro- 
fessor of  rclail  nianaucmcnl,  will  supervise  boih 
shows.- 

Hesed  U)  perform  Thursday 
during  Fellowship  coffeehouse 

This  I'lunsday  ai  6:.10  p.m.,  Hesed  rciurns 
111  ihe  Iduiiee  of  ihe  Aeadeinii  Ccnicr. 

Alpha  Omeua  Felldwsliip  will  hosi  aiunhcr 
cdlTcehduse.  Thai  nigln's  aiiraeiion  will  be  ihc 
dud  wild  (ipencd  hir  ilie  Chiisiian  Siephciis  eon- 
eeri  lasi  February. 

Hesed  eonsisis  of  wriicr-witalisl  Shelly 
DenliriLier  and  Cdmpdsei-vdealisl-pianisl  Dwanc 
Sell. 

The  Alplia  Omeca  Felldwship  will  dffer  enf- 
lee,  douglinuis,  and  loa. 


Wooly's   Place 

234  Park  St. 

East  End  of  College 

Phone  326-7983 


Monday,  March  12.  1984 


Dr.  Breuder  notes 
plans  for  teacher 
exchange  with  Chinese 

On  a  reccnl  Irip  l(i  Taipei,  Taiwan,  Dr. 
Robcrl  L.  Brcudcr.  College  prcsidenl,  assisted  in 
formalizing  a  bilalerial  educaiion  agreenieni  bet- 
ween ihe  Taiwan  MinLslry  of  Educaiion  and 
Educational  Partners  for  International  Coopera- 
tion (EPIC). 

Dr.  Breuder  traveled  to  the  Republic  of 
China  with  Dr.  R.  Stephen  Nicholson,  president, 
Mt.  Hood  Community  College  in  Gresham, 
Ore.,  and  Fred  C.  Fore,  president,  Florence- 
Darlington  Technical  College  in  Florence,  S.C. 

During  the  trip  -  which  went  well,  accor- 
ding to  Dr.  Breuder  -  plans  were  also  made  for 
a  group  of  Chinese  presidents,  already  scheduled 
to  tour  the  United  States,  to  slop  at  the  College. 
During  their  visit,  the  articles  of  agreement  will 
be  a  topic  of  discussion. 

Plans  are  also  being  made  to  arrange  a 
teacher  transfer,  bringing  Chinese  teachers  to 
leach  at  the  College.  The  courses  in  which  they 
hope  to  be  involved  include  secretarial  science, 
food  and  hospitality  management,  computer 
numerical  control,  and  computer  assisted  design 
and  computer  assisted  manufacturing 
(CAD/CAM). 

This  program  will  enable  the  transfer 
teachers  to  learn  from  the  College's  faculty  and 
vice-versa,  according  to  Dr.  Breuder.  It  is  hoped 
to  have  the  transfer  teachers  here  as  early  as  the 
Fall  1984  semester,  he  said. 

Eventually,  it  is  hoped  that  faculty  from 
here  will  transfer  to  the  Republic  of  China  to 
teach,  added  Dr.  Breuder. 

Dr.  Addy  to  speak 
at  librarians  workshop 

Dr.  Cathryn  Addy,  director  of  the  College's 
North  Campus,  will  be  one  of  three  speakers  at  a 
joint  workshop  sponsored  by  the  Pennsylvania 
Library  Association,  the  Susquehanna  Library 
Cooperative,  and  the  North  Central  Library 
District  encompassing  1 1  counties. 

"Working:  Personnel  Management  in  a 
Nutshell"  is  the  topic  of  the  spring  meeting  for 
librarians  to  be  held  Friday,  March  30  at  the 
Fallon  Hotel  in  Lock  Haven. 

-Courtesy  Report 


'Update  session'  given 
for  guidance  counselors 

Couiiesy  College  liifiiriiiulioii  Office 

Seveniy-four  secondary  guidance  counselors 
from  the  service  area  of  the  College  were  invited 
to  attend  an  information  update  session  hosted 
by  the  Counseling,  Career  Dcvchipment,  and 
Placement  Office  this  past  Friday.  - 

According  to  Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr., 
director  of  CCDP,  the  program  was  designed  to 
inform  counsehirs  of  happenings  and  changes  at 
the  College  and  to  help  them  to  better  advise 
students  on  new  trends  and  new  programs. 

Dr.  Charles  J.  Cunning,  associate  dean  of 
educatiimal  services,  was  scheduled  lo  give 
welcoming  remarks. 

A  new  videotape  about  the  College,  "poms 
on  Your  Future"  was  to  be  shown  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium. 

John  F.  Thompson,  a,ssociatc  dean  of 
academic  affairs,  was  to  discu.ss  "New  Programs 
and  Changing  Technologies".  He  also  was  to 
talk  about  the  College's  articulati(m  agreements 
with  Mansfield  and  Lock  Haven  Universities  as 
well  as  the  new  Computer-Assisted  Design 
(CADD)  System  to  be  installed  at  the  College. 

Also  scheduled  to  speak  was  Donald  S. 
Shade,  director  of  financial  aid. 

The  program  was  to  be  concluded  with  a 
meeting  of  the  Lycoming  County  Counselors 
Association. 

HOT  DOGS 

steamed  in 

BEER 


*  chili  dog 
■k  kraut  dog 

Wednesday,  March  14 

10a.m.-2p.m.ACC 

sponsored  by 
Artists  Unlimited 


22    •    SPOTLIGHT    •    Monday,  March  12. 1984 


OPEN  HOUSE 
Sunday,  March  25 
Noon  to  4:30  P.M. 


Come!  See  what  siudenls  in  oilier  pans  of  ilie  campus  are  doing... 


S:¥:¥ffft¥:S¥i  i  ^  f  '    /    *.ia  ■ 


one  desperate 

chance  to  escape.^      ^^^^ 

Tonighl  •  7:30  p.m. 
ACC  Audilorium 

$1  (wilh  ID) 

wnv^^iMmm 

„  (rut  *""■)■•                     ^^  ^ ,. 

$2  (wKhoul  ID) 

College  to  sponsor 

Oiiiliniied  fniiii  Pane  3 

Joseph's  University,  Seloii  Hill  College,  Ship- 
pensburg  University,  Thiel  College,  University  of 
Pittsburgh-Bradford,  University  of  Scranton  and 
Waynesburg  College. 

"This  college  is  the  only  community  college 
to  sponsor  the  Elderhosld  programs  in  Penn- 
sylvania," Ms,  Rosenbcrgcr  noted. 


Monday,  March  12,  1984 


lAKECARE 
OFVOUR 
LUNGS.  ^gY,jjg 

ONLY 
HUMAN. 

,t    AMERICAN 

Tlung 

association 

The  Christmas  Seal  People® 


Middle  States  team 
due  to  arrive  soon 

A  Middle  States  Accreditation  evaluation 
team  is  scheduled  lo  arrive  at  the  College  soon. 
Plans  are  underway  to  prepare  for  the  team's  ar- 
rival. 

According  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  Col- 
lege president,  the  minimum  requirements  have 
already  been  met  for  the  evaluation.  However,  a 
long-range  planning  report  is  also  being 
prepared  for  consideration  by  the  evalualors. 

The  College  assessment  report,  a  require- 
ment, has  been  completed  by  the  president.  Dr. 
Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor  of  governmeni  and 
history,  and  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of  educa- 
tional research,  planning,  and  evaluation. 

Upon  the  team's  arrival,  a  dinner  will  be 
held  for  its  members.  Among  those  invited  lo 
attend  the  dinner  are  two  student  representatives: 
Miss  Ruth  A.  Fischer,  general  studies  student 
from  Williamsport  who  is  president  of  Student 
Government,  and  Miss  Mary  L.  Pease,  jour- 
nalism student  from  Blairsville  who  was  Fall 
semester  managing  editor  of  The  SPOTLIGHT. 


ACROSS 
1  Wire  nails 
6  Rent 

1 1  Feast 

13  Continued 
story 

14  Faroe  Islands 
wtlirlwind 

15  Corrupt 

17  Note  ol  scale 

18  Away 

20  Food 
programs 

21  Ocean 

22  Secluded 

24  Vehicle 

25  Imilales 


26  Irritate 
28  Game  lish 
30  Linger 

32  Couple 

33  Pertaining  to 
ttie  mind 

35  Post 

37  Unit  of  Italian 
currency 

36  Comparative 
ending 

40  Play  leading 
role 

42  Possessive 
pronoun 

43  Escapes 
45  Natioor 

stieep 


Answer  In  tusi  week's  puzzle      \ 

s 

p 

A 

1 

H 

EHP    L   A 

N 

E 

1 

0 

1 

N 

s 

E 

l|r{i|v 

E 

R 

S 

N 

1 

0 

R 

L 

'■' 

V 

E 

1 

A 

1 

p 

1 

E 

1 

w 

1 

0 

T 

1 

c|s 

E 

0 

E 

D 
1 

E 

1 

R 

E 

D 

1 

R 

A 

D 

A 

Shl 

A 

DBS 

1 

1 

A 

1 

T 

u|a 

M 

T 

'I' 

1 

R 

E 

E 

U 
S 

1 

K 

E 

1 

E 

E 
1 

A 
1 

R 

1 

0 

1 

L 

A 

lHn 

1 

C 

E 

1 

E 

G 

o|c 

A 

T 

E 

R 

1 

E 

A 

e 

E 

E 

tHeBo 

M 

E 

E 

T 

i 

E 

S 

sIeUIr 

m 

i 

1^ 

W 

_s) 

46  Saint:  abbr. 

47  Succeed 

49  Roman  gods 

50  Bed  canopy 
52  Went  by 

54  Goller  Slam- 
min"  Sam 

55  Burdens 
DOWN 

1  Progeny 

2  Ciose-fltting 
heavy  jacket 

3  Symbol  (or 

4  Parent 
colloq. 

5  Winter 
vehicle 

6  Units  o( 
Bulgarian 
currency 

7  Before 

8  Three-toed 
sloth 

9  Glossy  fabric 
10  Man's  name 

12  Heroic  event 

13  Petty  ruler 
16  Paper 


25  Assumed 

27  llluminaled 

29  Male 
sheep 

31  Clothes- 
maker 

33  Fingerless 


44  Fur-bearing 
mammal 

47  School 
group:  abbr 

48  Spanish  (or 

51  Compass 

point 
53  Pelican  staltv 

abbr 


19  Blossoms 
21  Liquor 
23  Climbing 


Monday,  March  12.  1984 


BULLETIN  BOARD 


'k  ••IM.mlm.  Mm 


12  I 


■  Hi'-  Slli'tlilw  Mai 


MEETINGS 

Oiiiipiiier  Science  Cliih...  3:30  In  4:30  p.m..  llils  Tuesday.  Rdnm  321.  Atadcniii.  (cmcr. 

Gumma  Epsihii  tail...  4  ici  5  p.m..  ihis  lliiirsday.  Rdnin  2I8B.  Admiiii.'.iraiiiin  Hiiilding. 

/■'oresi  Teclmiciam  Asu'ciaiinn ...  1  p.m..  idday.  Rdiuii  106,  Fanli  Sticucc. 

Ski  Club...  4  1(1  5  p.m.,  iliis  Wednesday.  Rndiii  325.  Academic  Cciiier. 

Alpha  Omega  Felhwsliip...  7  lo  10  p.m..  lomormw,  Rmim  6,  Academic  Cenici 
MOVIK 

Mglii  Criming...  7:30  p.m..  Innij^lii.  Academic  Ccnicr  Audiiorium.  $1  in  all  Oilleuc 
Miidciiis  wiih  \alidaicd  .siudeni  ID.  soiiior  ciii/ciis.  and  children  under  12.    All  (Uliers   $2' 
ACTIVITIES 

BliHitlmiihile...  9:45  a.m.  lo  3:45  p.m..  Kimdrrcnv  and  Wednesday,  Bardd  Gvmnasium. 

Alpha  Omega  helhusliip  Cnffeelwmc . . .  6:30  In  9:30  p.m.,  iliis  Thursday,  Academic 
C'enicr  l.ouna-.  Musical  uroup  "Hesed"  will  pcrlnim.  (ice  d(iui:liiiuis.  hoi  chncdlalc,  and 
ciifrcc  «ill  be  availahle. 


Spotlight 

Tuesday,  March  20,  1984     •     Vol.  19,  No.  27     •     16  Pages 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College     •     Williamsport,  Pa.  17701 


IV s  spring... 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Enrollment  up 
compared  to  that 
of  Spring  W 

Courtesy  College  I/j/ormahon  Office 
The  College  has  released  its  Spring  1984 
enrollment  report.  In  total,  the  College  had  an 
increase  of  152  students  over  Spring  1983.  Of 
this  increase,  the  North  Campus  at  Wellsboro 
accounted  for  123  of  the  students. 

The  statistics  show  a  total  of  3,677  students 
enrolled  in  Spring  1984,  as  compared  to  3,525  in 
Spring  1983.  Of  that  number,  883  were  new 
students  and  2,794  were  returning  students. 

Increases  in  equivalent  full-lime  students 
(EFTs)  were  noted  in  the  Business  and  Computer 
Science  Division,  .12  percent;  High  Technology 
Division,  .37  percent;  Math,  Science,  and  Allied 
Health  Division  with  a  13.1  percent,  and  College 
Transfer,  20.4 

The  College  central  campus  (Williamsport, 
Montoursvillc,  Allenwood,  Danville  sites)  Spring 
semester  enrollment  figures  show  1,996  full-time 
males  enrolled,  compared  to  863  full-time 
females.  There  are  333  part-time  males  and  347 
part-time  females.  Total  campus  enrollment 
figures  (central  and  North)  show  2,012  full-time 
males  enrolled  for  Spring  1984  and  910  full-time 
females.  Campuswide,  there  are  400  females 
enrolled  part-lime  and  355  males. 

These  third-week  enrollment  figures  show 
that  793,  or  21  percent  of  the  student  popula- 
tion, is  under  20  for  Spring  1984  while  1,824,  50 
percent,  are  between  the  ages  of  20  and  25. 

Eleven  percent,  413  students,  are  26  to  30 
years  old.  Six  percent,  222  students,  are  31  to 
35;  four  percent,  148  students,  are  36  to  40;  four 
percent,  133  students,  are  41  to  50;  two  percent, 
67  students,  are  51  to  60  and  less  than  one  per- 
cent, seven,  are  over  60  years  of  age.  Two  per- 
cent, 70,  are  undesignated. 

The  mean  age  is  24  years,  median  age  is  21 
years  and  mode  age  is  20  years. 

Of  the  3.677  students  enrolled,  1,458  of  the 
full-time  students  come  from  sponsor  school 
districts  and  104  are  sponsored  by  another  com- 
munity college.  Two  foreign  students  are  enroll- 
ed full-time  and  two,  part-time. 

Figures  from  the  North  Campus  show  that 
the  total  enrollment  of  138  students  is  composed 
of  38  men  and  100  women.  There  are  63  full- 
please  (urn  to  page  8 


Bloodmobile's  goal 
nearly  attained 
despite  storm 

The  Red  Cross  Bloodmobile  which  was  on 
campus  last  Tuesday  and  Wednesday  collected 
461  pints.   The  goal  was  550  pints. 

On  Tuesday,  261  pints  of  blood  were  col- 
lected with  only  15  deferrals  and  200  pints  were 
collected  on  Wednesday  with  only  nine  deferrals, 
according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  College  ac- 
tivities. 

Students  who  are  still  interested  in  signing 
up  for  a  standard  first  aid  course,  a  cardio 
pulmonary  resuscitation  course  (CPR)  or  a 
County  Health  Improvement  Program  (CHIP) 
including  no  smoking,  weight  control,  and  exer- 
cise can  still  do  so  in  the  College  activities  office, 
Room  8,  Bardo  Gymnasium.  The  deadline  for 
siping  up  is  Friday,  March  30,  said  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

Starting  the  week  of  April  1,  the  first  aid 
course  will  be  offered  on  Monday  from  7  to  10 
p.m.,  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday  from  8  a.m. 
to  3  p.m.,  on  Wednesday  evenings  from  7  to  10 
p.m.,  and  on  Tuesday  and  Thursday  from  4  to  6 
p.m. 

The  CPR  course  will  be  offered  on  Monday 
and  Wednesday  from  5  to  7  p.m.  and  Monday 
and  Thursday  from  8  to  1 1  a.m.  Fee  for  courses 
will  be  minimal,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

These  courses  will  be  open  to  all  students, 
faculty,  and  staff,  stated  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

Also,  any  persons  interested  in  recertifying 
should  also  sign  up.  These  courses  are  being 
sponsored  by  College  Activities  Office  and  Stu- 
dent Health  Services  in  cooperation  with  the  Red 
Cross,  Mrs.  Fremiotti  said. 

Friday  meeting  set  for  FHMSO 

The  Food  and  Hospitality  Student 
Organization  (FHMSO),  will  meet  at  10  a.m., 
this  Friday,  in  Room  8,  Academic  Center. 

Discussion  will  include  the  ordering  of  new 
uniforms  and  the  planning  of  the  Chicago  trip, 
according  to  Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  adviser  to 
the  group  and  associate  professor  of  food  ser- 


Bleachers'  price  is  less 
than  stated  last  week 

In  last  week's  SPOTLIGHT,  it  was  inadver- 
tantly stated  that  the  cost  of  the  new  bleachers 
for  the  gymnasium  would  amount  to  $78,725. 
This  is  the  total  of  the  regular  bleachers  and  an 
alternate  set.  However,  purchase  of  an  alternate 
set  was  rejected  previous  to  the  meeting  of  the 
College  Board  of  Trustees  in  which  the  bleachers 
were  voted  upon.  Without  the  alternate  set,  the 
total  cost  of  the  new  bleachers  will  be  $62,745. 


Tuesday,  March  20, 1984     •     SPOTLIGHT    •     3 

Blood  donors  receive  awards 

Ronald  L.  Rock,  professor  of  business  ad- 
ministration, and  Miss  Deborah  L.  Homberger, 
secretarial  science  student  from  South 
Williamsport,  both  received  awards  from  the 
American  Red  Cross  for  consistently  donating 
blood. 

Rock,  who  received  a  "five  gallon"  pin,  has 
been  a  donor  over  a  period  of  15  years. 

Miss  Hornberger,  who  received  a  "gallon" 
pin  from  the  Red  Cross,  has  been  a  donor  for 
two  years.  Both  Rock  and  Miss  Hornberger 
gave  blood  in  February. 

"I  think  that  everybody  should  get  involved 
in  giving  blood  because  there  are  people  who 
really  need  it,"  said  Miss  Hornberger. 


Creative  Kitchen 


GLANCING  OVER  (he  Creative  Kitchen  meDo 
are  Charies  T.  Dincber,  food  and  hospitality 
stadent  from  Williamsport,  and  Ms.  Joanne  J. 
Jones,  dietetic  technician  student  from 
WiUiamsport.  /SPOTUGHT  photo  by  Mary  L. 
Peasej 


Wednesday,  March  21 

Consomme  Indienne 

Chicken  and  Shrimp  Creole 

Saffaron  Rice 

Sauteed  Okra 

Spinach  and  Mushroom  Salad 

Angel  Biscuits 

Pecan  Tarts 

or 

White  Wine  Cream 

Thursday,  March  22 

Cream  of  Carrot  Soup 

Tossed  Salad  and  Dressing 

llalian  Meatloaf 

with 

Tomato  Sauce 

and  Peach  Cherry  Chiller 

Baked  Potato 

Broccoli  and  Cheese  Sauce 

Banana  Bread 

Apple  Crisp  with  Whipped  Topping 

Coffee,  lea,  iced  lea,  milk  and  water 

served  with  all  meals.  Meals  cost  S3.  Soups 

served  with  homemade  rolls.  Desserts  are  a 

la  carte. 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Studying  in  the  cafeteria? 
Try  the  student  lounge! 


.  In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 


Cafeteria  (kaf  e  tir  e  a)  n: 
a  restaurant  in  which  the 
customers  serve  themselves 
or  are  served  at  a  counter  and 
take  the  food  to  tables  to  eat. 
This  is  how  Webster's 
New  Collegiate  Dictionary 
delines  the  word.  But  no 
where  under  the  word 
cafeteria  does  Ivlerriam- 
Webster  list  socializing  or  stu- 
dying with  books,  purses, 
coats,  and  backpacks  strewn 
over  the  tables  and  chairs 
which  were  originally  intended 
for  diners. 

Serving  students,  faculty, 
staff,  and  visitors,  the  cafeteria 
has  ample  space  to  accomm- 
date  the  lunch  crowd  at  noon- 
time, providing  that  "space"  is 
not  selfishly  taken  up  by  ob- 
jects not  really  needing  the 
comforts  of  chairs. 

Why  should  people  pay- 
ing for  cafeteria  food  and  ser- 
vices be  forced  to  stand  in 
bewilderment  and  juggle  a 
trayful  of  food  while  searching 
for  a  place  to  sil  down  and  eat 
their  meal? 

The  student  lounge  in  the 
Academic  Center  is  furnished 
with  lounge  furniture,  study 
tables  and  comlortable 
carpeting,  certainly  a  preferred 
place  of  concentration  -  a 
more  appropriate  place  for 
scattering  notebooks  and  tex- 
tbooks. 

Since  the  cafeteria  is  a 
place  to  eat,  and  not  to 
socialize  or  study,  we  could 
have  more  consideration  for 
those  who  simply  want  to  eat 
their  lunch. 


Tuesday.  March  20,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


"Well  uh,  now  that  the  Marines  are  out  of  Beirut,  let's  move  to  Plan  B.  I 
want  a  Big  Mac  and  large  fries  given  to  those  who  promise  to  vote  for 
me." 

DRAWING  BY  MURRAY  J.  HANFORD 


SCHOLARSHIPS  AVAILABLE 

For  1984-85,  the  College  will  be  awarding  $500  scholarships  lo  approiimalely  14  returning  sindenis  who 
have  a  cumulative  grade  point  average  of  3.0  or  higher. 

Interested  students  must  complete  the  scholarship  appUcation  and  include  at  least  two  letten  of  support 
from  Iheir  division  directors  or  their  instructors. 

The  deadline  to  apply  is  April  1,  1984.  Applications  are  available  at  the  circulation  desk  in  the  Library  in 
the  Learning  Resources  Center  and  in  the  Financial  Aid  Office,  Room  201,  Academic  Center. 


6     •     SPOTLIQHT    •    Tu»«day,  March  20, 1984 

Whaddya...say? 


Scott  D.  Berger, 
machinist  general  stu- 
dent from  Lehighton:  "I 
don't  think  that  President 
Reagan  did  a  good  job. 
I'm  going  to  vote  for 
Mondaie" 


Jeffrey  L.  Snook, 
machinist  student  from 
Williamsport;  "Yes.  it 
does  because  it's 
necessary  for  them  to  be 
there  for  peace." 


Danny  M.  Grouse, 
machine  tool  technology 
student  from  Needmore; 
"No,  because  I  think  he 
is  removing  the  (Vlarines 
for  the  people  and  this 
will  help  him  to  be  re- 
elected " 


Question:     Does  the  removal  of  the  Marine* 

from  Beirut  Influence  your  decision  for  voting 

lor  President  Reagan  for  anottier  term  In  office? 

Why? 

Location:   Machine  Trades  Bulldlno 

Photos  by  Lorl  M.  Lane 

Text  by  Anne  T.  Moretelll 

Bolh  ol  The  SPOTLIGHT  SUM 


Robert  p.  Derr, 
machine  tool  technology 
student  from  Lewisburg: 
"It  wouldn't  influence  my 
decision.  It  was  the  first 
time  a  president  stood 
up  for  what  he  believed 


David  M.  Cervinsky, 
engineering  drafting  stu- 
dent from  Jersey  Shore: 
"No.  because  I'm  not  go- 
ing to  vote  anyway." 


ivlark  W. 

Hasselman,  machine 
tool  technology  student 
from  St.  Marys:  "It 
wouldn't  influence  my 
vote  if  they  pulled  them 
out  or  not." 


SPOTLIGHT 

Monday,  March  12,  1981    -    Vol,  19,  No.  2e 
Tne  SPOTLIGHT  is  putilisned  earh  Mti"dav  '>i'jfri(r,u  ,,l  me  a'.adernit  vear.  excepi  for  Colletie  vac 

louriialisin  arid  oilier  irHeieslert  sUidcrns  ol  Trrc  Wrllrnnr^i Area  Cornrraiinly  Coliene 

Ollire      Rorim  7.   Atademrr.  Cei.inr     1005  W    Ti.ird  31.   WrlliamsKirl.  Pa     17701       Tclepm. 

326-3761 .  Exleiisipn  221  

THE  STAFF 
Joan  L  Tliompson,  inananrrig  editor.  Perry  D  PeiiV,  editorral  pacie  ediliii;  Lou  M  Lane,  sporls  ediir 
Pease.  plioloorapPv  editor.  Tiirimas  F  Monldoinerv,  prodiir  Hon  supeivisor.  Annelle  M  Enqel  piioiocr 
manager  Tnomas  H  Loiiq.  adinimsirairve  aliarrs  edrtor.  Kay  M  Frai;e.  suidenl  alfairs  editor:  Giseia  D 
adveriisiiiq  manauer.  Barbi  L  Clllison.  semoi  siall  wrrrpr.  Grepory  W  Hull,  senior  stati  wnler:  Murray  J 
slalf  arlisl 

Faculty  advisei    Anlliony  N   Cillo 

Production  Slalf  Thl»  Isius    Donna  M  Barnell   Rodney  D  Hill  and  Thomai  H  Long 


r,  tylary  L 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


College  budget  released; 

shows  smallest  rate  of  increase 

over  last  three  years 


The  College  has  unveiled  a  proposed  $16.7 
million  budget  for  1984-85.  Copies  of  the  docu- 
ment were  released  to  the  members  of  the  20 
-member  College  Executive  Council  on  Friday, 
March  9. 

According  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  Col- 
lege president,  the  proposed  budget  shows  the 
smallest  rate  of  increase  -  7.9  percent  overall, 
7.5  percent  main  campus  -  of  any  over  the  last 
three  years. 

"The  cost  to  the  sponsor  districts  per  EFT 
(equivalent  full-time)  student  is  actually  down 
5.1  percent  from  that  approved  by  the  districts 
for  1983-84,"  Dr.  Breuder  stated  in  releasing  the 
budget.  "It  is  up  only  3.5  percent  above  the  per 
EFT  cost  of  last  year  (1982-83),"  he  continued. 

Nearly  all  of  the  increased  total  is  said  to  be 
attributable  to  growth  in  enrollment  (2  percent 
up  over  this  year);  costs  associated  with  start-up 
and  maintenance  of  equipment  in  new  programs 
and  programs  to  be  enhanced  with  new  advanced 
technology,  and  to  inflation,  employee  benefits 
and  salaries,  and  increased  utility  service  to  new 
facilities. 

"We  are  extremely  sensitive  to  the  need  to 
limit  increases  in  costs  to  our  sponsors, "Dr. 
Breuder  said.  "This  budget  reflects  our  efforts 
to  hold  down  sponsor  costs  without  sacrificing 
excellence  or  limiting  opportunities." 

The  proposed  $16.7  million  budget  includes 
$13  million  for  postsecondary  operating  ex- 
penses, of  which  $12.64  million  is  proposed  for 
main  campus  postsecondary  programs  and  $0.36 
million  for  the  North  Campus.  Sponsors  would 
pay  $2.4  million  (16.5  percent;  students,  $6.1 
million  (42.7  percent),  and  the  state,  $3.8 
million  (26.8  percent)  for  operating. 

The  $12.64  million  proposed  for  main  cam- 
pus postsecondary  operating  represents  an  in- 
crease of  9  percent  over  1983-84,  with  94  percent 
of  that  increase  deriving  from  increased  costs  in 
four  categories:  computer  software,  rate  increase 
in  employee  benefits  and  salaries,  preventive 
maintenance  for  computer  software,  and  utilities 
-  reflecting  both  service  to  new  building  and  in- 
structional space  not  in  service  in  1983-84  and 
rate  increases. 


Much  of  the  increased  cost  in  computer 
software  and  maintenance  relates  to  four  new  ad- 
vanced technology  laboratories,  utilizing  com- 
puter enhanced  systems,  to  be  established  next 
year;  computer  assisted  design  and  manufactur- 
ing, metrology,  computerized  numerical  control, 
and  programmable  logic  control.  Additional 
new  initiatives  influencing  costs  to  some  extent 
include  new  programs  in  human  services  and 
quantity  foods. 

Operating  increases  for  the  North  Campus 

-  now  entering  its  second  full  year  of  operation 

-  will  total  $0.1  million.  That  increase  primarily 
reflects  increased  enrollments  brought  about  by 
the  opening  of  two  new  programs  in  accounting 
and  business  management,  and  by  the  addition 
of  second-year  students.  Dr.  Breuder  noted  that 
the  North  Campus  is  self-sustaining,  requiring 
no  subsidies  from  the  Williamsport  operation. 
In  fact,  the  operation  of  the  North  Campus  is  ex- 
pected -  for  the  second  consecutive  year  ~  to 
reduce  the  per  EFT  costs  of  the  College. 

Employee  benefits  and  salaries  now  account 
for  79  percent  of  all  postsecondary  operating 
costs,  and  despite  the  College's  efforts  to  remedy 
inequities,  data  acquired  during  the  1983-84 
school  year  reveals  that  the  College  remunera- 
tion scales  continue  to  lag  behind  those  of  com- 
parable employers  for  all  categories  of 
employees,  said  College  officials. 

The  postsecondary  budget  assumes  an 
enrollment  increase  of  2  percent  in  1984-85. 
Postseconary  enrollment  has  increased  30.7  per- 
cent since  1977-78,  an  average  of  4.4  percent  per 
year. 

The  College's  proposed  postsecondary 
capital  budget  totals  $2.2  million,  a  decrease  of 
1.2  percent  from  the  current  year  figure.  Spon- 
sor districts  would  pay  $0.3  million  (14  percent) 
of  that  total,  with  the  remaining  86  percent  of 
that  amount  coming  fiom  a  variety  of  sources, 
including  state,  private,  non-sponsor  student  and 
federal  sources. 

College  officials  noted  that  capital  projects 
either  completed  or  now  on  the  drawing  board 
for  the  period  1978  to  1986  total  $35  million. 
please  turn  to  page  8 


8     •    SPOTLIGHT    •    Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


College  budget  released 

fiom  page  7 


The  sponsor  districts'  share  of  that  total  is  $1.3 
milhon  (3.7  percent). 

A  total  of  $1.5  million  is  proposed  for  the 
secondary  (high  school)  component,  including 
$1.4  million  for  operating  and  $0.1  million  for 
capital.  The  proposed  budget  shows  an  increase 
of  only  3  percent,  or  $65  per  student. 

Secondary  enrollment,  which  has  been  a 
concern  in  the  past,  is  expected  to  increase  for 
the  first  time  in  several  years  despite  an  expected 
continued  drop  in  the  numbers  of  secondary 
students  enrolled  in  participating  districts. 

According  to  Dr.  Breuder,  that  projected 
increase  is  the  result  of  both  unprecedented  ef- 
forts to  strengthen  and  diversify  secondary  pro- 
gramming, and  enhanced  recruitment  activity. 

The  College  has  planned  two  secondary 
programs  at  the  North  Campus  --  in  computer 
science  and  health  occupations.  Four  new  senior- 
only  programs  are  planned  at  the  Williamsport 
campus:  dairy  herd  management,  agribusiness, 
computer  operator,  and  computer  science 
technology. 

Dr.  Breuder  expressed  his  satisfaction  that 
the  proposed  minimal  level  of  increase  will  not 
jeopardize  the  College's  efforts  to  expand  and 
modify  programming  to  meet  the  emerging  needs 
of  area  business  and  industry  and  other  College 
constituencies. 

"Limited  cost  increases  does  not  mean  we 
have  to  limit  either  our  services  or  our  quality," 
he  noted.  Dr.  Breuder  reiterated  that  the  recent 
enactment  of  Act  44,  achieved  in  part  through 
the  substantial  efforts  of  the  College,  was  the 
most  infiuenlical  single  factor  in  minimizing 
costs  to  sponsor  districts  and  students. 

The  College  recently  credited  $295,000  back 
to  the  districts  for  the  current  fiscal  year  follow- 
ing enactment  of  that  legislation,  he  said.  He 
also  indicated  his  conviction  that  long-term 
financial  relief  to  sponsor  districts  is  on  the 
horizon.  College  officials  expect  recommenda- 
tions of  the  Governor's  Commission  on  Financ- 
ing Higher  Education  ~  scheduled  to  be  for- 
mulated in  October  of  this  year  -  will  result  in 
substantial  remedies  to  present  funding  pro- 
blems. 

Other  legislation  pending  the  General 
Assembly,  such  as  SBl  163  sponsored  by  Senator 
Robert  C.  Jubelirer,  of  Altoona,  would  greatly 
increase  the  state's  share  of  funding  of  com- 
munity colleges. 


"We  have  not  seen  more  promising 
developments  at  the  state  level  since  the  incep- 
tion of  community  colleges  in  Pennsylvania  20 
years  ago.  The  College  has  assigned  highest 
priority,  and  dedicated  unprecedented  energies, 
to  efforts  to  insure  those  state  initiatives  become 
law,"  said  Dr.  Breuder. 

The  proposed  budget  was  transmitted  to  the 
College'?  20-member  Executive  Council  on 
March  9,  was  to  have  been  presented  to  the 
Council  at  its  meeting  on  March  14,  and  will  be 
presented  on  March  29. 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees  has  given 
preliminary  approval  to  the  budget.  Final  action 
is  expected  on  the  proposed  budget  at  the 
board's  April  5  meeting.  After  board  action  on 
the  budget,  it  will  be  voted  on  by  each  of  the 
College's  sponsor  districts.  An  affirmative  vote 
by  14  of  the  20  sponsors  is  required  for  final  ap- 
proval. 

Enrollment  up 

from  page  2 

time  students  and  75  part-time  students.  The 
largest  group  of  students  (68)  is  not  seeking  a 
particular  degree. 

Tioga  County,  home  of  the  campus,  ac- 
counts for  93.5  percent  of  all  North  Campus 
students  and  Wellsboro  Area  School  District 
(seat  of  the  county)  sponsors  the  greatest  share 
of  North  Campus  students  (72). 

Last  spring,  Wellsboro  sponsored  42 
students;  this  Spring  their  total  sponsorship 
enrollment  is  114  students  ~  72  on  the  North 
Campus  and  42  on  central  campus.  The  mean 
age  of  the  North  Campus  student  is  30  years, 
compared  to  the  central  campus  mean  of  24 
years. 

Computer  Science  Club 
meets  next  Tuesday 

The  Computer  Science  Club's  next  meeting 
will  be  held  at  3:30  p.m.,  next  Tuesday  in  Room 
321,  Academic  Center  (ACC),  according  to  B. 
Drew  Robison,  club  public  relations  officer  and 
computer  science  student  from  Duncansville. 

Topics  to  be  discussed  are  a  picnic  for  club 
members,  to  be  held  at  the  end  of  the  semester, 
and  special  tours  for  club  members. 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


CU-JO  still  reigns  number  one 


CU-JO  is  still  rolling,  maintaining  the 
number  one  position  in  team  standings  for  in- 
tramural bowling. 

Other  results  according  to  records  provided 
by  ABC  Lanes  are; 

Team  standings 
Xeain  ^■■■s  Losses 

1.  CU-JO  22        5 

2.  Destroyers  18        9 

3.  Boneheads  I6V2    \Wi 

4.  Cillo-Etts  16       11 

5.  Head  Pins  16       H 

6.  High  Rollers  ,  15       12 

7.  Dew  Crew  15       12 

8.  Mad  Hatters  12       15 

9.  Unpredictables  U'/i     15'/! 

10.  Flintstones  8        19 

11.  Bandits  5        22 

12.  No  Names  4        23 

Men's  high  singles 
Myles  S.  Murray,  business  management 
student  from  Williamsport,  258. 

Christopher  L.  Patrick,  computer  science 
student  from  Morrisdale,  213. 

Thomas  G.  Schmid,  electrical  occupation 
student  from  Camp  Hill,  205. 

Women's  high  singles 
Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  140. 

Cindy  M.  Cekovich,  floriculture  student 
from  Mechanicsburg,  136. 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science  student 
from  Cogan  Station,  132. 

High  team  series 
Head  Pins,  2,547. 
CU-JO,  2,497. 
Boneheads,  2,432. 

Men's  high  series 
Murray,  664. 
Patrick,  600. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical  construction 
student  from  Shohola,  565. 

Women's  high  series 
McNeil,  394. 
Cekovich,  371. 
King,  367. 

High  team  single 
Head  Pins,  889. 
High  Rollers,  862. 
Boneheads,  842. 
CU-JO,  842. 


Top  Tive  averages 

Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical  technology  stu- 
dent from  Scranton,  216. 

Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Williamsport,  202. 

Kirk  D,  Zohn,  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
student  from  Fredericksburg,  177. 

Scott  R.  Mondschein,  electrical  occupations 
student  from  Coplay,  175. 

McKean,  171. 


»    '    .                                          ■'    *  ..    '^^x-*^  ■     *9 

Intramural 

Sports              1 

Schedule            * 

Today 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m.                     ^^ 

Bowling...  4  to  6  p.m.                             1 

Basketball  league...  4  to  6:30  p.m.             * 

Volleyball  league...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Tomorrow,  March  21 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Basketball  league...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Volleyball  league...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Thursday,  March  22 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Indoor  soccer...  4  to  6:30  p.m. 

Volleyball  league...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

iitmiutpiiiiiiiiiniimiii 


WWAS  it 


YOUR 
TICKET  TO 
THE  MOST  EXCITING 


SPORTS! 

TURN  US  ON 

88  F^ 


10     •     SPOTLrOHT     .     Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder  speaks.  For  related 
story,  see  page  13.  /SPOTLIGHT  photo  by 
Mary  L.  Peasej 


Computer  Science  Club,  faculty 

basketball  game 

to  be  played  Thursday  evening 

B.  Drew  Robison,  Computer  Science  Club 
public  relations  officer  and  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Duncansville,  says  he  is  urging  club 
members  to  sign  up  for  a  basketball  game 
against  the  faculty  to  be  held  on  Thursday  even- 
ing in  the  Bardo  Gym. 

"There  will  be  a  practice  later  today  for 
members  who  sign  up,"  said  Robison. 

Members  who  wish  to  sign  up  or  anyone 
with  further  questions  about  the  game  may  con- 
tact David  A.  Lott,  instructor,  computer  science, 
in  Room  305,  Academic  Center,  or  on  College 
Ext.  228. 

Tennis  practice  scheduled  today 

The  tennis  team  will  have  its  first  practice 
today  from  3  to  5  p.m.  at  the  Memorial  Courts, 
weather  permitting,  according  to  Coach  James  S. 
Young,  carpentry  instructor. 

Students  interested  who  haven't  previously 
signed  up  may  go  to  the  courts  today  to  begin 
practices,  added  Young. 

The  first  match  is  scheduled  for  April  3. 


PI.AV  t.UCKV 
MIMBKR.S  AND 
WIN  A  WHOU: 
SUB  AND  MKD 
DRINK 


Cilb's  College  Corner    .^t\m 

1100  W.  Third  St.,  Williamspnrl  ...j^lljil 


i\ 


tNal  la  Academic  C  enter/ 
PHONK  AHEAD:    322-1321 


HOim.    7:)0  a.m.  10  6:00  p.m.  Mmiriay  llmi  hriday 


m'%^- 


^^!^^ 


BENSON 


€itn  mini.   ^ 
f^Mn  market 


Cnriimiii!;  (///  /(/(;/'/   tm    an  t'xani 
'■I"  !;iM'  Miu  ihf  IVIL1NCHIK,S! 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Moynord  Sts. 
Open     24     linus! 
We  never  cli»se! 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT    • 

SGA  aids  Cancer  Society 
with  daffodil  sale 

The  Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  will  be  taking  orders  to  aid  the  American 
Cancer  Society  Daffodil  Days  Campaign,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator 
of  intramural  athletics  and  College  activities. 

This  is  a  state-wide  event  in  Pennsylvania  this  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Saturday.  The  daf- 
fodil is  the  flower  of  hope  for  cancer  patients,  said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

As  volunteers  for  the  American  Caner  Society,  students  will  be  taking  orders  for  daffodils 
until  tomorrow.   Price  of  the  daffodils  is  $3  for  10  daffodils,  she  said. 

Delivery  date  for  the  flowers  will  be  this  Thursday  and  Friday.  Money  will  be  collected  at 
the  time  of  delivery. 

Daffodils  can  be  ordered  from  any  member  of  the  SGA  or  by  calling  College  Ext.  269 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 

The  money  raised  from  Daffodil  Days  goes  for  caner  research  and  patient  services. 


Women's  Week 
begins  Monday 

Dr.  Penelope  P.  Russianoff  will  be  the 
keynote  speaker  for  Women's  Week  which 
begins  next  Monday,  March  26  and  com- 
tinues  through  next  Friday,  March  30,  ac- 
cording to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coor- 
dinator of  intramural  athletics  and  College 
activities. 

Films,  discussions,  and  lunches  have 
been  planned  throughout  the  week,  said 
Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


Wcdd  is  our  husincss 
WOOD  TKCHNOLO(;iFS 
WK  ARK  ()Kh;rin(;  a  hi(;h 

OUAIITV  14  •  \  12  •  X  V 
HARDWOOD  (  UrriNC;  BOARD 
K)R  SAIK 


CAM,  547-1661  [^ 

v 


Highspeed  High  Fidelity. 


==^ 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


yiLPINE 

car  audio  systems 


\= 


lln  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building) 
==i(Behind  EJ.'S  SPEAK-E-Z); 


Williamsp(»r( 

25  W.  Church  S(. 

323-2622 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Eight  PBL  members  to  attend 
State  Leadership  Conference 


Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  professor  of 
business  administration;  Miss  Valerie  J. 
Haydock,  coordinator  of  the  Individualized 
Learning  Center  for  Typewriting  and  Word  Pro- 
cessing, and  eight  Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL) 
members  will  attend  the  13th  Annual  State 
Leadership  Conference  on  April  6,  7,  and  8. 

The  conference  will  be  held  at  the  Marriott 
Hotel  in  Harrisburg,  according  to  Goldfeder. 

Pennsylvania  chapters  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
will  compete  in  several  business-related  testing 
categories  including  accounting,  typing,  business 
communications,  business  law,  data  procesing, 
information  management,  economics,  word  pro- 
cessing, and  public  relations. 

According  to  David  A.  Haas,  PBL  club 
president  and  computer  science  student  from 
Williamsport,  winning  students  receive  trophies 


\  Ybu  can  learn  tomorrow's 
I  technologies  in  today's  Navy. 

Tomorrow's  lechnologies,   tomorrow's  careers 
;  are  wailing   for   you   right   now   in   the   Navy. 
i  Sophisticated  technical  fields  like  computers, 
I  electronics,         communications         and 
i  engineering.  If  you've  got  solid  training  in  these 
:  areas,  you  can  have  a  solid  future.   And  there's 
:  no  belter  place  to  get  solid  training  in  these 
;  technologies    than    in    today's    Navy.       If    you 
I  qualify,  you  can  sign  up  for  guaranteed  training 
I  in  the  field  of  your  choice,  and  start  after  you 
:  graduate.      The   skills   you'll   learn   will   last   a 
lifetime.       The    places    you    can    visit,    you 
remember  for  the  rest  of  your  life.    To  find  out 
more,  call  your  local  Navy  representative 


and  are  eligible  to  compete  at  the  National 
Leadership  Conference  in  Atlanta,  Ga.,  July  5 
through  9. 

In  addition  to  Haas,  PBL  members  who 
will  attend  are  Elizabeth  A.  Zerby,  secretarial 
science.  Avis;  Sheryl  L.  Wilkins,  secretarial 
science,  Lawrenceville;  Judy  L.  Brokaw,  com- 
puter science,  Canton;  Crystal  A.  Hoffman, 
computer  science,  Elysburg;  Paul  H.  Pauling, 
accounting,  Montgomery;  Todd  D.  Bogenrief, 
computer  science,  Watsontown,  and  Jonathan  F. 
Miller,  computer  science,  Williamsport, 

Goldfeder  was  also  to  have  attended  a  Pen- 
nsylvania State  PBL  executive  meeting  last  Sun- 
day in  Harrisburg.  The  main  thrust  of  the 
meeting,  said  Goldfeder,  was  to  complete  plans 
for  the  conference. 


IT'S  NOTJUSrAJOB^mgr 
/rs  AN  ACfJENWRE^r 


1-800-692  7823 


'"^"cT.  f-sAs"::^- 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     • 

Dr.  Breuder  presents  update 
report  to  Chamber  of  Commerce 

By  Thomas  H.  Long 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

At  a  breakfast  meeting  last  Tuesday  at  The  Hillside  Restaurant,  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder, 
College  president,  presented  a  College  update  to  the  Williamsport-Lycoming  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce. 

Despite  stormy  weather,  the  meeting  was  well  attended.  The  approximately  75  people  in- 
cluded members  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  College  faculty  and  staff,  and  members  of  the 
press. 

Dr.  Breuder  spoke  about  the  need  for  updating  at  the  College  due  to  technological  ad- 
vancements in  all  facets  of  the  world  of  work.  One  step  presently  being  undertaken  at  the  Col- 
lege is  the  new  Advanced  Technology  and  Health  Services  Center  slated  to  be  built  beginning  in 
Spring  1985. 

Figures  presented 

Included  in  the  new  building  will  be  computer  technology,  dental  hygiene,  electronics, 
graphic  arts,  nursing  (LPN),  radiologic  technology,  respiratory  therapy,  surgical  technology, 
and  word  processing.   All  these  are  to  be  relocated  or  expanded  in  the  new  building. 

Curriculums  proposed  for  the  new  Advanced  Technology  Center  include  automated 
manufacturing  processing,  avionics,  biomedical  equipment  repair,  electronic  specialities,  laser 
technology,  nuclear  medicine,  nursing  (RN),  robotics,  and  speciality  labs  which  will  include 
electro-mechanics  and  hydraulics. 

Dr.  Breuder  presented  preliminary  figures  of  the  projected  cost  relating  to  the  project. 
The  complete  facility  will  cost  $14,875,000  and  will  cover  125,000  square  feet.  He  added  that 
completion  of  the  buildings  should  be  in  the  summer  1987. 
'...into  the  future...' 

Besides  the  latest  building  addition,  updating  in  the  other  labs  is  also  being  done.  With 
the  new  computer  assisted  design  and  computer  assisted  manufacturing  (CAD/CAM),  pro- 
grams such  as  machine  tool  technology  and  word  processing  will  be  "launched  into  the  age  of 
future  technology,"  added  Dr.  Breuder.  The  system  will  cost  the  College  an  estimated 
$600,000. 

Other  labs  will  be  added  or  expanded  to  accomodate  technological  advancements,  accor- 
ding to  Dr.  Breuder.  The  cost  to  equip  these  labs  will  be  approximately  $1  million,  but  all  the 
funds  for  this  undertaking  will  come  from  the  federal  government  or  special  programs.  Dr. 
Breuder  pointed  out  thai  none  of  this  money  will  come  whhin  the  College  or  its  sponsoring 
districts,  thus  easing  any  budget  strain. 

In  concluding  the  report.  Dr.  Breuder  asked  for  input  from  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  on 
any  additions  or  deletions  members  feel  appropriate  regarding  the  College  updating  and 
upgrading  of  curriculums. 


Come  ReU)x  -  Meet  your  Friends 


Wooly's   Place 

234  Park  SI. 

East  End  of  College 

Phone  326-7983 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Counselors  attend 
annual  session 

Several  members  of  the  staff  of  Counseling, 
Career  Development,  and  Placement  Office  at- 
tended the  Annual  Conference  of  the  Penn- 
sylvania College  Personnel  Association  held  Feb. 
26  to  28  in  Grantville,  Pa.,  according  to 
Lawrence  W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling, 
career  development,  and  placement  at  the  Col- 
lege. 

Emery,  who  was  the  conference  chairper- 
son, is  president-elect  of  the  Pennsylvania  Col- 
lege Personnel  Association  and  will  assume  th 
presidency  on  June  1,  1984. 

G.  Robert  Converse,  coordinator  of  the 
career  options  for  displaced  homemakers  pro- 
gram presented  a  workshop  entitled  "Videotape 
Production  for  Recruitment,  Career  Education, 
and  Counseling",  which  featured  the  recently- 
produced  videotapes  of  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College. 

Also  attending  were  Thomas  Shoff  and 
Thomas  McNally,  counselors  at  the  College. 

The  Pennsylvania  College  Personnel 
Association  is  a  division  of  the  American  College 
Personnel  Association  and  has  over  400 
members  representing  student  affairs  at  all  levels 
of  postsecondary  education  in  Pennsylvania. 


Plans  for  TOP  program 
announced  by  president 

Speaking  to  the  Williamsport-Lycoming 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder, 
College  president,  announced  plans  for  a  new  in- 
dustry training  program.  The  program  is  to  be 
called  Training  for  Occupations  with  Promise 
(TOP). 

The  purpose  of  the  program  is  to  fund 
training  programs  to  prepare  the  unemployed  or 
underemployed  adults  for  occupations  experienc- 
ing growth  or  to  provide  skills  to  improve  perfor- 
mance in  current  jobs,  according  to  Dr.  Breuder. 

At  the  meeting,  last  Tuesday  morning,  Dr. 
Breuder  distributed  an  outline  of  the  new  pro- 
gram which  included  its  purpose,  cost,  available 
funding,  and  eligibility. 

A  minimum  of  $450,000  is  available  for 
program  funding.  However,  this  is  on  a  first 
come,  first  served  basis,  added  Dr.  Breuder. 

In  addition  to  funding,  employers  who  are 
planning  to  improve  employees'  skills  are  en- 
couraged to  participate  in  meeting  15  percent  of 
the  total  training  cost.  They  are  not  required, 
however,  said  Dr.  Breuder. 

This  program,  which  will  be  ftmded  from 
July  1,  1984  through  June  30,  1985,  is  open  to 
any  adult  needing  training  to  obtain  or  even 
maintain  skilled  labor,  said  Dr.  Breuder. 


Jeans 

Wrangler 

Chic 

Lee 

Levi 


Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 


1 15  percent  off 


all  REGULAR  PRICE  merchandise 
with  (his  coupon. 

■^^■^^^  clip  &.  save  ^^^^^" 
WODIKK  II  l»;inils  in  sleek! 


Sneakers 

Converse 
Adidas 

Puma 


=YlEt()nic 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Wiiiiomsport,  Ph.  322-1 1  12 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


First-year  broadcasting 
students  assume  duties 

The  first-year  students  of  the  College's 
student-operated  radio  station  (WWAS)  have 
assumed  most  of  the  duties  traditionally  held  by 
second-year  students,  according  to  Bill  L. 
Phoenix,  broadcasting  student  from  Lock  Haven 
and  promotion  director. 

The  early  turnover  is  done  to  develop  the 
first-year  students  in  their  respective  manage- 
ment positions  for  the  upcoming  semester, 
Phoenix  said. 

The  management  team  is  primarily  second- 
year  students  with  the  exception  of  the  news 
department,  where  Wesley  H.  Latchford,  first- 
year  student  from  Altoona,  is  in  charge.  He  has 
made  a  vast  improvement  in  the  department, 
said  Phoenix. 

The  second-year  students  of  the  manage- 
ment team  must  still  account  for  their  perfor- 
mance of  their  successors,  according  to  Phoenix. 

A  list  of  the  air  time  schedule  follows: 

From  8  a.m.  to  10  a.m.,  classical  music; 
from  10  a.m.  to  12  p.m.,  jazz;  12  p.m.  to  6 
p.m.,  top  40,  and  from  6  p.m.  to  1  a.m.,  rock 
and  roll. 

The  news  will  be  covered  during  60  second 
intervals,  at  a  quarter-after-the-hour,  between  1 
and  5  p.m.,  according  to  Phoenix. 

Table  tennis  cancelled 

The  table  tennis  tournament  was  cancelled 
due  to  lack  of  interest,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn 
R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 

Students  wanting  to  play  table  tennis  during 
open  gym  hours  may  request  equipment  in  ad- 
vance by  contacting  Mrs.  Fremiotti,  Room  106, 
Bardo  Gym. 

Dr.  Ian  Henderson 
to  perform 

Dr.  Ian  Henderson,  professor 
emeritus  of  music  at  the  State  University 
College,  Brockport,  N.Y.,  will  be  at  the 
College  at  8  p.m.  this  Thursday  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  to  perform 
on  his  double  harpsichord  and  clavichord, 
according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R,  Fremiotti, 
coordinator  of  intramural  athletics  and 
College  activities. 


SPOTLIGHT 


A  GHOST  SPEAKS  from  the  past  In  '■Spoon 
River",  presented  by  the  Bloomsburg  Theatre 
Ensemble  in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium 
on  March  8.  /SPOTLIGHT  pholo  by  Mary  L. 
Pease/ 

State  inspection, 
vehicle  tune-up  offered 

In  the  Automotive  Technology  Division, 
state  inspection  and  vehicle  tune-up  services  are 
being  offered,  according  to  Wilham  H.  Debolt, 
director  of  transportation  technology. 

Vehicles  to  be  inspected  cannot  be 
"stickered",  but  student  labor  will  be  provided 
for  whatever  sections  of  the  vehicle  need  atten- 
tion, said  Rodman  H.  Perry,  instructor, 
automotive. 

The  vehicle  owner  must  provide  the  nec- 
essary parts,  and  a  $3  lab  fee  will  be  incurred,  he 
said.  Those  who  want  to  set  up  an  inspection 
appointment  may  call  Perry  at  College  Ext.  433 
after  9  a.m. 

Owners  of  vehicles  to  be  tuned-up  should 
bring  whatever  parts  will  be  needed,  according  to 
Lawrence  P.  Stabler,  auto  instructor.  There  is 
also  a  $3  fee  for  this  service,  he  said.  Appoint- 
ments may  be  made  by  calling  Stabler  on  College 
Ext.  432  after  9  a.m. 


Tuesday,  March  20,  1984 


Bulletin  Board 


For  Ihe  week  of  Tuesday,  March  20  through  Sunday,  March  25. 

MEETINGS 

Apiha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  lo  10  p.m.,  tonight,  Room  6,  Academic  Center. 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau...  4  lo  5  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  218B,  Administration  Building. 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)...  11  a.m.  to  12  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  204,  Academic 
Center. 

ACTIVITIES 

Computer  Science  vs  Faculty  Basketball  Game...  8  to  10  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Bardo 
Gymnasium. 

Student  Nurses  Candy/Bake  Sale...  10  a.m.  to  2  p.m.,  today.  Academic  Center  Lounge. 

Roller  Skating  Party...  8  to  10:30  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Tickets  are  $1  in  advance  and  $2  for  a 
guest  ticl<et.   Ticlcets  can  be  picl<ed  up  in  the  College  activities  office.  Room  8,  Bardo  Gym. 
SPECIAL  EVENTS 

Dr.  Ian  Henderson  to  perform  on  classical  keyboard  instruments ...  8  p.m.,  this  Thurs- 
day, Academic  Center  Auditorium.    Donations  will  be  accepted. 

Bloodmobile...  This  Thursday  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus.   By  registration  only. 

Open  House...  12  lo  4:30  p.m.,  this  Sunday. 


When  your  folks  forgot  they  already 

sent  you  spending  money, 

'Looks  like  a  Stroh  Light  night." 


C*7bEVERAGE   CO. 


"Looks  like  a 
Stroh  Light  nights 


41V-421  Kilili  Aic.  *  Willianis|]i.il,  I'a.  ♦  7l7/.12.V.12.n 


*    %        *    'x^      *     ¥^  WftSSS¥S--«¥f:¥:Wf:W5:¥:%S¥S¥SS¥SSft¥:¥ 


SPOTLIGHT 
SPECIAL  EDITION 


SUNDAY, 
MARCH  25,  1984 


LuAnn  E.  Peterson,  electrical  techr^ology 
student  from  Wellsboro,  and  associate 
Robert  R  Saytor  built  ttiis  little  wonder 
from  a  lot  Several  locations 


1984 
OPEN  HOUSE 


;¥:¥SW:¥:4WS¥S¥::S»¥S«¥!Wi¥ft¥AS¥ftWSS;s:ftW-WftiWSSK^^ 


Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
'Opportunity  With  Excellence' 


2    •    SPOTLIOHT  SPECIAL    •    Open  House  Sunday,  March  25, 1984 


Welcome  to  Open  House  1984 
at  Your  Community  College 


I  refer  to  The  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College  as  "your"  Community 
College  to  emphasize  the  Importance  we  at  the 
College  place  on  responding  to  your  needs 
and  supporting  your  goals. 

During  Open  House  activities  today,  we 
will  show  you  just  how  we  are  able  to 
respond  to  your  needs  by  providing 
opportunities  for  you  to  create 
new  opportunities 

for  yourself.  By  providing  new  skills 
training,  upgrading  your  present  skills 
or  simply  increasing  your  knowledge 
of  the  world 

around  you.  The  Williamsport  Area  Community 
College  can  help  you  prepare  for 
a  successful  future, 

Our  theme  for  Open  House  1984  is 
"Opportunity  With  Excellence".  We're  certain 
you'll  find  this  theme  emphasized  throughout 
the  College  by  our  students  and  staff  in  our 
associate  degree  and  certificate  programs,  our 
secondary  vocational-technical  programs,  and 
our  non-credit  lifelong  education  programs. 

We're  very  proud  to  be  a  part  of  your 
Community  College.  And,  we  feel  sure  that 
when  you  leave  here  today,  you  too  will  be 
proud  to  be  a  part  of  The  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder 
President 


Opan  HouM  Sunday,  March  25, 1984     •     SPOTirOHT  SPECIAL     • 

It's  easy  if  you  know  how: 

heavy  equipment  gets  'ride' 

in  unique  'rodeo' 

At  this  year's  Open  House,  a  unique  "rodeo"  is  tal<ing  place  at  the  Earth  Science 
Campus  at  Allenwood.  Being  staged  from  noon  until  4:30  p.m.  today,  the  event  takes 
place  in  the  parking  lot  area  at  that  campus. 
The  rodeo  is  being  sponsored  by  the  Service  and  Operation  of  Heavy  Construction 
Equipment  (S&O)  faculty,  the  S&O  Club,  and  the  S&O  Advisory  Committee. 
Approximately  30  to  35  high  school  students  are  participating  in  the  rodeo 
Represented  are  Centre  County  Vo-Tech.  Pleasant  Gap;  Wildwood  Career  Center, 
Hornell,  N.Y.;  Schuyler-Chemung-Tioga  County  B.O.C.E.S.,  Elmira.  N.Y..  and  the  Com- 
munity College 
Contests  include  forklifts,  rubber-tired  backhoes.  bulldozers,  and  track  backhoes.  The 
forkllft  contest  is  being  sponsored  and  judged  by  Forklifts  Inc.,  of  Williamsport.   In  this 
event,  students'  skills  will  be  taxed  when  they  drive  forklifts  through  an  obstacle  course 

to  achieve  points. 

The  bulldozer  event  is  a  material  handling  contest  in  which  the  students  push  a  rock 

around  the  perimeter  of  a  circle  while  maintaining  control  of  the  vehicle.   The  event  will 

be  judged  on  the  basis  of  elapsed  time. 
In  the  rubber-tired  backhoe  event,  the  object  is  to  move  an  egg  from  a  box  of  sand, 
swing  the  machine  and  deposit  it  in  a  four-Inch  piece  of  pipe  without  dropping  or  break- 
ing the  egg's  shell.  The  hardest  part  of  the  contest  is  that  the  egg  must  be  picked  up  by 
a  tablespoon  attached  to  the  bucket  of  the  backhoe.  The  event  is  judged  on  the  basis  of 

time  also. 

The  track  backhoe  event  calls  for  the  contestants  to  swing  the  machine  in  a 

360-degree  circle  while  touching  objects  without  knocking  them  over.  This  will  also  be  a 

timed  event. 

Prizes  and  trophies  will  be  presented  at  a  catered  dinner  following  the  Open  House. 

Ivlembers  of  the  S&O  Advisory  Committee  will  serve  as  judges. 

Faculty  coordinators  include  Benjamin  H.  Eldred,  assistant  professor  of  S&O;  William 

L.  Stevens,  assistant  professor  of  S&O;  Scoti  B.  Appleman,  instructor  of  S&O;  Paul  J. 

Zell  Jr.,  instructor  of  S&O,  and  Dan  C.  Emick,  instructor  of  S&O. 


SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL:  OPEN  HOUSE  SUNDAY  '84 
The  SPOTLIGHT  is  the  student  newspaper  of  the  Williamsport  Area  Community  Col- 
lege, Williamsport,  Pa.  1 7701 .  This  SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL:  OPEN  HOUSE  SUNDAY  is  a  sup- 
plement to  the  newspaper's  regular  Ivlonday  morning  edition.  This  supplement  is  produced 
by  underclass  journalism  and  other  students  independent  of  supervision  by  upperclass 
editors  as  a  learning  experience. 

PRODUCTION  TEAI^  FOR  THE  SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL 
Those  listed  have  participated  in  the  production  in  a  variety  of  ways  in  the  interest  of 
garnering  varied  experience:  Rodney  D.  Hill,  Kathryn  Ivl.  Gilbert,  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr..  Gisela 
D.  Grassley,  Donna  1^.  Barnett,  James  K.  Morrissey,  and  Ivlark  S.  Schwanke.  Faculty  ad- 
viser: Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate  professor  of  journalism. 

The  underclass  staff  gratefully  acknowledges  the  assistance  of  the  following  rr^embers 
of  the  upperclass  in  this  production:  Mary  L.  Pease,  Barbi  L.  Chilson,  Lori  M.  Lane,  and 
Thomas  H.  Long. 

OPEN  HOUSE  SUNDAY,  MARCH  25,  1984 


4    •    aroruOHT  8PECUL    •    Opwi  HeuM  Sunday,  Maich  26, 1M4 


Journalism  students 

showing  iearning  area 

in  Academic  Center 


Journalism  students  and  other  students  who 
are  members  ot  the  College's  student 
newspaper  (SPOTLIGHT)  staff  today  will  explain 
training  and  learning  opportunities  in  the  jour- 
nalism program. 
The  students  will  host  Open  House  visitors 
and  "walk  them  through"  the  procedure  lor  pro- 
ducing the  student  newspaper. 
Information  about  the  program  -  including 
newly-added  courses  and  revised  courses  -  will 
be  available  from  journalism  faculty. 


SgijjgSjjtS:gSS-S:S¥:W:-:-S 


Numerical  controlled 

machining  center  operating 
today  for  visitors 

The  numerical  controlled  machining  center 
Is  in  operation  today  In  the  Machine  Shop  in  the 
Technical  Trades  Center, 
Also  available  for  visitors  are  equipment 
demonstrations  of  optical  comparators,  elec- 
tronic microcheckers,  hardness  testers,  and  Jo- 
blocks. 

How  about  physical  education? 

In  the  Gymnasium,  Open  House  visitors  are 
being  Invited  to  stop  at  the  Universal  Gym  Room 
and  to  talk  with  physical  education  faculty  about 

exercise,  sports,  and  the  College's  physical 
education  program. 


Student  radio  station 
on  tlie  air  today 

The  College's  student-operated  radio  station 

(WWAS)  is  on  the  air  today  during  Open  House. 

The  station's  facilities  in  the  Administration 

Building  -  soon  to  be  replaced  by  modern 

facilities  In  the  new  Lifelong  Education  Center 

-are  open. 

Faculty  and  students  are  at  the  station  to 

answer  questions  about  the  radio  station  and 

about  the  broadcasting  curriculum. 


'New'  Integrated  Studies  Division 

features  Info  on  various  courses 

including  new  human  services  program 

The  recently-reorganized  Integrated  Studies  Division  offers  programs  in  a  variety  of 

subjects  as  well  as  courses  in  specialized  areas. 

Human  Services 

In  the  first  floor  lounge  on  the  north  side  of  the  Academic  Center,  information  about 

opportunities  for  careers  in  social  and  human  services  is  available. 

Advertising  Art 

An  art  exhibit,  featuring  student  work,  is  being  presented  in  the  advertising  art  studio 

in  the  basement  of  the  Academic  Center. 

In  the  same  area,  a  demonstration-of  modern  typesetting  is  being  presented. 

Liberal  Arts  and  Sciences,  Individual  Studies,  Technology  Studies 

At  various  locations  in  the  Academic  Center  and  especially  in  the  vicinity  or  Room 

309,  fllmstrlps,  videotapes,  and  Information  on  the  "flexible"  programs  in  liberal  arts  and 

sciences,  in  individual  studies,  and  In  technology  studies,  are  being  presented.  These 

programs  generally  are  designed  for  students  wishing  to  transfer  to  four-year  colleges. 

Faculty  is  available  to  discuss  specialty  areas. 

[Other  subject/study  areas  mcMed  in  the  Integrated  Studies  Division  are  reviewed 

separately  elsewhere  in  this  SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL] 


OpenHouseSunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL 


Slide/tape  presentation  depicts 
business,  computer  science  unit 

Those  interested  in  finding  out  about  the  College's  Business  and  Computer  Science 
Division  and  its  offerings  may  view  a  slide/tape  presentation  today  in  the  vicinity  of  Room 

31 0  of  tfie  Academic  Center. 

Information  tables  fiave  also  been  set  up  on  the  Academic  Center's  third  floor. 

Catalogs  and  brochures  are  available. 

Faculty  and  students  are  on  hand  to  answer  questions 

Tours  Being  Offered 

Tours  of  the  Business  and  Computer  Science  Division  are  being  conducted  by 

students  and  faculty  of  that  division.  The  tours  originate  every  half-hour  from  a  point  near 

Room  310,  Academic  Center. 


SSSSSSSSS-SSSWSSSSSSSSWSUS:?: 


A  "Nutrition  Casino'  is  set  up  In  Room  107 

of  the  Academic  Center  to  show  how  eating 
habits,  nutrition,  and  life  style  affect  health. 
A  project  of  the  students  and  faculty  of  the 
food  services  currlculums  of  the  College,  the 
'Casino'  is  part  of  a  special  Open  House  presen- 
tation which  also  features  a  llambe  demonstra- 
tion in  Room  1 05  of  the  Academic  Center. 


Gambling  with  food? 

'Nutrition  Casino' 

shows  how  to  win 


'Dessert  Spectacular' 
set  for  Open  House 

The  food  and  hospitality  management 

students  and  the  dietetic  technician  students  are 

holding  a  "Dessert  Spectacular"  for  Open 

House  today. 

Desserts  will  be  for  sale  in  the  dining  room. 

Room  105,  Academic  Center  and  tea  will  be 

complimentary. 

Crepes  Normandy  Flambe  will  be  featured. 

Raspberry  Cassis  Granita,  Assorted  Petits 

Fours  (Cream  Horns,  Chocolate  Eclairs,  Fruit 

Tartlets  Truimphant.  Chocolate  Truffles),  Black 

Velvet  Cake,  and  Daquoise  will  also  be  served. 


DURING  the  academic  year,  food  and 
hospitality  management  students  work 
on  various  projects.  Among  those 
students  Is  Nancy  L.  Conroy,  of 
Wllllamsport.  [SPOTLIGHT  photo] 


•    SPOTLIQHT  SPECIAL    •    Open  HouM  Sunday,  March  25, 1984 

Lifelong  Education  offerings 
highliglited  in  library  displays 

On  the  second  door  of  the  liljrary  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center  today  during 

Open  House  there  will  be  presented  1 7  displays  reprepsentatlve  of  the  Center  for 

Lifelong  Education's  non-credit  campus  and  community-based  acitivites,  according  to 

l^rs.  Barbara  Danko.  director  of  lifelong  education. 

Displays  and  demonstrations  set  up  by  select  groups  of  non-credit  classes  will  be 

featured.  Among  these  are: 

Photography 

-Robert  Gohrs.  the  instructor  of  the  photography  courses  will  have  a  display  on  the  sub- 
ject of  photography. 

on  Painting 

-Patricl<  D.  Murphy,  assistant  professor  of  advertising  art,  will  show,  in  the  form  of  a 
display,  the  traditional  and  the  modern  techniques  of  oil  painting. 

Silk  Scraaning 

-A  display  set  up  by  Paula  Hamm  featuring  children's  silk  screening  will  be  available. 

Stalnad  Glasa 

-Joseph  Barlett,  the  instructor  of  this  course,  will  have  a  display  focusing  on  learning  to 
build  a  window  or  copper  foil  lamp  shade. 

Printed  Advartlsing 

-A  display  which  shows  the  use  of  the  tools  and  techniques  of  printed  advertising  will  be 

presented  by  Joan  Catherman. 

Growing  Cacti  and  Succulanta 

-Leslie  Spencer  Jr.  will  have  a  display  on  the  care,  culture,  identification  and  propagation 

of  cacti  and  succulents. 

Quilting 

-Home  economist  and  craftswoman  Donna  Nibert  will  have  a  demonstration  and  display 
about  the  basics  of  quilting  and  quilting  applique. 

Drawing 

-Robert  Schultz,  instructor  of  the  drawing  course,  will  have  a  demonstration  and  display 

of  pencil  and  charcoal  drawings. 

Knitting  and  Crocheting  for  Baglnnera 

-This  class  will  be  represented  by  a  demonstration  and  display  by  instructor  Frances  Spr- 
ing. 

Macrame 

-Instructor  Karen  Spring  will  have  a  demonstration  and  display. 

Plaaae  continue  reading  on  next  page 


Open  HouM  Sunday,  March  25, 1984    •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL    ' 

Lifelong  Education  offerings 
highlighted  in  library  displays 

Continued  from  previous  page 

Rug  Hooking 

-This  course,  which  Is  represented  by  a  demonstration  and  display  on  rug  hooking,  is 

taught  by  Ruth  Ann  Van  Horn. 

Dressmaking 

-Dressmaker  and  consultant  Robin  Leidhecker  will  hold  a  demonstration  representing 

"Sparkle  with  Your  Colors". 

Decorating  Eggs 

-Ann  McCloskey  will  allow  people  to  try  Pyssnka  -  the  ancient  art  of  decorating  eggs  by 
waxing  and  dyeing  them.   This  demonstration  and  display  will  represent  the  Ukranian 

Easter  Egg  course. 

,    .  Country  Crafts 

-A  demonstration  and  display  of  the  course.  Country  Crafts,  will  be  presented  by  Janice 

Hurst. 

Holiday  Chocolates 

-Holiday  Chocolates,  taught  by  Sharon  Ulrioh,  will  feature  a  demonstration  and  display 

-and  samples  will  be  available. 

Clowning 

-Clowning  is  a  class  taught  by  Barbara  Iwlarshall  In  which  students  learn  to  develop  a 
clown  character,  magic,  juggling,  skit  ideas,  etc.  Clowns  will  be  acting  as  guides 

throughout  the  library. 

Specialized  Technical  Educational  Programs 

-Grant  Martin,  coordinator  ol  specialized  technical  education  programs,  will  have  a 
display  with  handouts  available  about  the  Specialized  Technical  Educational  Programs. 

"This  is  a  sample  of  the  courses  we  offer  through  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Education," 
Ivlrs.  Danko  said.  "The  staff  will  be  available  throughout  the  day  and  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education  office  will  be  open  to  provide  informational  handouts  as  well  as  in- 
structions about  how  to  get  to  the  library  " 

Window  displays  provide 

'window'  on  CiasS  project  Handling  the  bricks: 


The  display  windows  on  the  first  floor  of  the 


Students  show  masonry  projects 


Academic  Center  today  are  the  focus  for  four  ^°'^  working  projects  and  other  projects 

separate  displays  prepared  by  fashion  merchan-  "'"  ^^  °"  "^'^^'^^  "  ®^^"  ^^  students  continue  to 

■dising  students  In  retail  management  program  "°^'*  *'^  a'temoon  -  in  the  brick  and  stone 

The  display  subjects  are  architectural  "masonry  section  of  the  Building  Trades  Center 

design,  the  business  curriculum,  the  retailing  ^^^^'  ^°'*^  '=  viewable  in  Room  104,  BTC. 

curriculum,  and  a  "Women's  Week"  exhibit. 


•     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Op«n  HouM  Sunday,  March  25,  1 984 

Secondary  Vocational  Programs 

presenting  various  displays 

and  projects  related  to  courses 

Open  House  visitors  have  the  opportunity 

to  explore  the  College's  Secondary  Vocational  Programs.   In 

masonry  and  carpentry,  visitors  will  tind  a  front  view  of  a  model  house  with  attached 

garage,  fireplaces  in  brick  and  stone,  a  wood  stove  installation,  a  cutaway  view  of  the 

fireplace,  an  outdoor  barbecue  and  masonary  arches.   All  of  these  displays  will  be  found 

in  Room  1 10  of  the  Building  Trades  Center. 

In  Room  1 30.  building  trades  projects  in  interior  trim,  in  drywall,-doors,  molding, 

ceilings  and  windows  (all  the  details  that  turn  a  shell  into  a  building)  will  be  on  display. 

Secondary  students  will  demonstrate  their  skills  in  machine,  architectural,  civil  and 

electronic  drafting,  as  well  as  in  technical  illustrations.   Students  will  also  demonstrate 

how  a  blueprint  machine  works.   All  of  the  secondary  drafting  displays  will  be  in  Room 

1 43  of  the  Adminstration  Building. 
Students  will  show  oft  their  machining  projects  in  the  machining  lab  of  the  Technical 
Trades  Center.   In  the  welding  shop,  next  door  in  the  Metal  Trades  Center,  welding 

projects  will  be  on  display. 
What's  it  like  to  be  a  student  in  the  secondary  auto    mechanics  program?  In  the 
auto  mechanics  shops  in  the  Technical  Trades  Center,  secondary  students  will 
demonstrate  brake  lathes,  alignment  equipment,  wheel  balancing  and  more. 
In  the  auto  body  repair  shop  in  Room  1 1 6  of  the  Automotive  Trades  Center,  secon- 
dary students  will  be  showing  works  in  progess  as  well  as  completed  projects.   Antique 
cars  will  also  be  displayed  throughout  the  Center. 
At  the  south  end  of  the  Administration  Building,  secondary  students,  who  will 
become  tomorrow's  electricians,  will  demonstrate  residential  and  Industrial  wiring, 
motors,  generators,  motor  control,  signs,  and  special  projects. 
At  the  Aviation  Center  in  f^ontoursville,  secondary  students  will  demonstrate  test 
equipment  like  ultrasound,  eddy  current,  magnaflux  and  zyglo.   A  display  of  aircraft  parts 
and  cutaway  displays  of  reciprocating  and  jet  aircraft  engines  will  also  be  available  for 

the  public  to  view. 

A  number  of  secondary  students  and  staff  will  also  be  available  at  the  Earth  Science 

Center  to  talk  about  their  programs  and  display  their  projects.   Horticulture  students  will 

give  a  classroom  demonstration  of  an  automatic  seeder.  They'll  also  have  displays  of 

potted  plants  and  silk  and  fresh  flower  arrangements.   Forestry  students  will  have 

displays  on  surveying  and  logs  and  lumber,  and  will  be  giving  demonstrations  at  the 

sawmill.   In  the  small  engine  shop,  visitors  will  find  engine  and  equipment  displays  that 

show  how  students  sharpen  their  skills. 

Health  assistant  program  students  will  provide  free  health  screening,  including  blood 

pressure,  pulse  rate,  height  and  weight  and  diabetic  screening, 

in  Room  405  of  the  Academic 

Center. 


Open  HouM  Sunday,  March  25,  1984    •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL    •    9 


'Learn  as  you  earn' 

In  the  hallway  of  the  third  floor  ot  the 

Academic  Center  nfear  Room  31 2  are  students 

currently  enrolled  in  the  College's  experiential 

learning  program. 

They  will  be  available  to  explain  how  this 

"learn  as  you  earn"  program  functions. 


Individualized  Learning  Center 

for  Typewriting,  Word  Processing 

open  for  visitors  today 

During  Open  House  today,  visitors  are  able 
to  examine  the  College's  Individualized  Learning 
Center  for  Typewriting  and  Word  Processing, 
located  in  Room  302  of  the  Academic  Center. 
Secretarial  science  faculty  and  staff  are  on 
hand  to  explain  the  concept  of  the  individualized 
learning  and  to  show  how  the  center  operates. 
Visitors  who  wish  to  do  so  may  tal<e  a  tim- 
ed writing  "test"  to  determine  their  typing  speed 
(words  per  minute). 


Bring  on  the  clowns! 

Typing  can  be  fun...? 

Advanced  medical  secretarial  students  of 

the  College  are  dressed  as  clowns  today  for 

Open  House  in  order  to  show  younger  visitors 

how  to  work  the  typewriter  keyboard. 

The  "clowns"  are  in  Room  31 1  of  the 

Academic  Center. 


Word  processing 
demonstrations  underway 

In  Room  306  of  the  Academic  Center,  Open 

House  visitors  may  view  demonstrations  of  word 

processing  equipment  by  faculty  and  students  in 

the  word  processing  curriculum. 

There  is  also  opportunity  for  visitors  to  gain 

"hands  on"  experience  with  the  equipment. 


How  fast  is  YOUR  short... 
shorthand,  that  is! 

In  Room  303  of  the  Academic  Center  is  the 

shorthand  laboratory.   There  are  displays  of 

work  and  projects  completed  by  students  in  this 

field. 

Open  House  visitors  are  being  invited  to 

check  their  shorthand  speed. 

Faculty  members  are  available  to  assist  or 

to  answer  questions. 


Hmmm...  just  like  TV? 

weather  maps  on  display 

in  electronics  technology 

area  in  Admin  Building 

A  live  reception  of  satellite  weather  maps 
direct  from  the  Geostationary  Weather  Satellite 
(on  a  cathode  ray  tube)  is  being  featured  in  the 
electronics  technology  lab  in  Room  1 1 4  of  the 
Administration  Building. 
The  entire  reception  system,  from  the 
parabolic  antenna  to  the  map  displays,  has  been 
built  by  students. 
In  the  microprocessor  lab,  student  "fun  pro- 
jects" in  electronic  music  and  games  are  being 
shown. 
In  this  area,  too,  a  student-built  robot  Is  be- 
ing used  to  demonstrate  learning  skills. 


SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL    •     Op«n  HouM  Sunday,  Mirch  25,  1 984 


Student  organizations  helping 

to  fight  'the  hungries': 

refreshments  and  information  offered 

Various  student  organizations  are  offering  services  as  tour  guides  and  in  other 
capacities  during  Open  House  -  as  weii  as  setting  up  spots  wtiere  visitors  wili  find 

refreshments  of  various  l<inds. 

Proceeds  from  various  saies  are  used  to  support  the  student  organizations'  activities 

inciuding  field  trips,  professional  visitations  and  the  like. 

OUTING  CLUB  BAKE  SALE 

The  Outing  Club  is  sponsoring  a  bal<e  sale  with  free  coffee  in  the  vicinity  of  Room 
151  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center.  Club  members  v*ill  also  show  a  film  about  Penn- 
sylvania wildlife  in  Room  151 ,  LRC. 

WOMEN'S  FORUM  USED  BOOK  SALE 

The  Women's  Forum  is  sponsoring  a  used  book  sale  on  the  first  floor  of  the 
Academic  Center,  between  the  display  windows. 

GAMMA  EPSILON  TAU  CANDY  SALE 

Gamma  Epsilon  Tau.  the  graphic  arts  fraternity,  is  sponsoring  an  l^&l^l  candy  sale  In  the 
graphic  arts  area  of  the  Administration  Building. 

ALPHA  PI  DELTA  COFFEE  t  DOUGHNUTS 

Alpha  Pi  Delta  is  serving  coffee,  doughnuts,  and  punch  outside  the  architectural  lab 

on  the  second  floor  of  the  Learning  Resources  Center. 

Members  will  also  give  tours  of  the  architectural  lab  and  present  a  slide  presentation 

inside  Room  200  of  the  Learning  Resources  Center. 

V.I.C.A.  AND  HOT  DOG  SALE 

Vocational  Industrial  Clubs  of  America  members  are  sponsoring  a  bake  and  hot  dog 
sale  in  front  of  the  Administration  Building  and  in  front  of  the  Technical  Trades  Center. 

FOOD  &  HOSPITALITY  DESSERTS 

Food  and  Hospitality  lulanagement  Student  Organization  members  are  selling 
desserts  in  Rooms  105  and  107  of  the  Academic  Center. 

SPOTLIGHT  COFFEE  AND  PUNCH 

Student  members  of  the  staff  of  the  SPOTLIGHT,  the  student  newspaper,  are  pro- 
viding courtesy  coffee,  punch,  and  cookies  for  visitors  to  the  student  newspaper  office  In 

the  basement  of  the  Academic  Center. 


Open  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL 


Campus 
Improvements 
Are  Ongoing... 

SPOTLIGHT  photographers 
captured  some  of  the  work 
being  done: 
New  safety  tread  material  is  be- 
ing placed  on  stairs  in  Academic 
Center  (in  photo  by  Gisela  D. 
Grassley  at  left) 

Freshening  up  in  the  Learn- 
ing Resources  Center  is  Charles 
T.  Fitzgerald  (in  photo  below  by 
Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr.) 


12     .     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Open  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984 


New  caleleria  beginning  to  look  like  a  cafeteria  [Above] 


Work  progresses  on  Inside  ot  new  building;  dedication  set  tor  June  [Below] 


Open  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     13 


;ress 
inues 

D 

!W 

long 

ation 

Iter 


IS  by 
Kopp  Jr. 

LIGHT  SUR 


Up-to-date  room  being  readied  for  student  use 


14    •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Open  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984 


mM. 


Campus 
Improvements 
Are  Ongoing... 

SPOTLIGHT  photographers 
captured  some  of  the  work 
being  done: 
Emergency  safety  lighting 
being  updated  with  David  L. 
Yonl<in  at  worl<  (in  photo  at 
left  by  Gisela  D.  Grassley) 


Refurbishing  space  in  the 
Academic  Center  to  prepare  it  to 
be  used  as  office  space  is  Ed- 
ward J.  Bergstrom  (photo  at 
right  by  Gisela  D.  Grassley) 


Open  Hous*  Sunday,  March  25,  1984    •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL 


Nursing,  radiologic  technology 
dental  hygiene  programs  featured 
on  fourth  floor,  Academic  Center 

Information  about  the  College's  programs  in  praclical  nursing,  surgical  tectinology, 
radiologic  technology,  and  dental  tiygiene  is  available  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  Academic 

Center. 

Practical  Nursing,  Surgical  Technology 

Displays  on  nutrition  and  cancer  are  in  Rooms  404  and  409. 

In  Room  401 ,  visitors  are  able  to  tour  the  surgical  technology  lab. 

Faculty  is  available  to  review  opportunities  in  both  programs. 

Radiologic  Technology 

In  Room  41 3,  information  -  including  information  about  x-rays  -  about  radiologic 

technology  is  available. 

Tours  of  the  RT  lab  and  of  the  darkrooms  as  well  as  equipment  demonstrations  and 

an  informational  videotape  are  being  offered  regularly  on  the  hour. 

Basics  of  radiology  are  being  reviewed  in  discussions  and  mini-lectures. 

Dental  Hygiene 

Plaque  checks  and  oral  cancer  examinations  are  being  offered  continuously  during 

Open  House  in  the  Dental  Hygiene  Clinic  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  Academic  Center. 


Drafting,  tool  design 
students  showing  worl( 

In  the  Administration  Building,  engineering 
drafting  students  will  be  working  throughout 
Open  House  hours. 
Visitors  may  see  how  draftsmen  and 
women  develop  the  drawings  and  plans  used  for 
manufacturing  and  engineering  projects. 
Engineering  and  industrial  drafting  projects 
and  displays  relate  to  basic  drafting,  power 
transmissions,  casting  detailing,  working  draw- 
ings, assembles,  mechanisms,  weldments,  pip- 
ing layouts,  civil  drafting,  and  architectural  draf- 
ting. 
Other  displays  include  fixture  design,  quality 
control  set-ups,  stamping  dies,  and  numerical 
control  programming. 


Time  and  patience  go  Into  restoring  an  old 
Cadillac:  Automotive  Trades  Center 


SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Opon  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984 


Evening  class  info 
available  in  Academic  Center 

A  display  of  evening  and  weekend  school 

programs,  literature,  and  informatiori  is  situated 

in  the  hallway  near  Room  303,  Academic 

Center,  for  any  persons  interested  in  earning  a 

degree  by  attending  evening  or  weekend 

classes. 

Alumni  invited 

The  Willlamsport  Technical  In- 
stitute/Williamsport  Area  Community  College 
Alumni  Association  is  inviting  all  alumni  to  "drop 
by"  Room  209  of  the  Academic  Center  for  cof- 
fee during  Open  House. 


Accounting  curriculum  info 
available  in  Academic  Center 

Near  Room  307  of  the  Academic  Center, 
Open  House  visitors  will  be  able  to  see  a  display 
of  accounting  materials  and  learn  about  the  ac- 
counting curriculum  offered  at  the  College. 


Admissions  Office,  other 

support  service  offices 

open  to  give  answers 

How  do  I  go  about  enrolling? 

How  about  financial  aid? 

What  books  are  available? 

These  and  other  questions  can  be 
answered  by  a  visit  to  one  of  the  College's  sup- 
port services  offices.   Open  today  are  the  Col 
lege  Bookstore,  the  Ivledia  Center,  the  Admis- 
sions Office,  the  Financial  Aid  Office, 
Developmental  Studies, 
and  Student  Health  Services 
Staff  is  available  in  each  location  to  answer 
specific  questions  about  admission  re- 
quirements, about  help  In  financing  an  educa- 
tion, about  counseling,  and  so  on. 
The  Admissions  Office  is  on  the  first  floor  of 
the  Academic  Center.  The  Financial  Aid  Office 
is  located  on  the  second  floor  of  the  Academic 
Center. 
The  Bookstore.  Development  Studies,  and 
Ivledia  Center  are  located  In  the  Learning 
Resources  Center. 
Student  Health  Services  is  located  in  the 
gymnasium. 


Not  a  miniature  city,  but  a  display  of  architec- 
tural drafting  students'  work:  Learning 
Resources  Center,  second  floor 


OpenHouteSunday,  March  25,  1984    •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL    •    17 


Mechanical  drafting  atudents  busily  prepare  work;  student  drafting  projects  are 
displayed:  Administration  Building 


ji^s  -j/y/s-Jfi<}ff^^^ 


Various  displays 
at  airport 

Displays  including 

aircraft  models  will  be 

available  to  Open  House 

visitors  at  ttie  College's 

Aviation  Campus  at  the 

Williamsport-Lycoming 

County  Airport  at 

Montoursville. 

The  airport  can 

be  reached  by 

motoring  east 

on  Interstate  1 80. 


18     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Op«n  HouM  Sunday,  March  25,  1 984 

Bus  available  to  take  visitors 
to  Earth  Science  Campus  to  see 
heavy  equipment  rodeo,  forestry 

and  variety  of  other  exhibits 

Open  House  visitors  interested  in  learning  more  about  nature,  flowers,  trees,  dairy 
production,  small  engines  -  or  in  seeing  a  "heavy  equipment  rodeo"  may  take  advantage 
of  free  bus  trips  from  the  city  campus  to  the  College's  Earth  Science  Campus  at  Allen- 
wood. 
The  bus  will  be  leaving  today  from  the  Learning  Resources  Center  -  on  West  Third 
Street  -  every  half  hour  starting  at  1 2:30  p.m.  and  continuing  until  3:30  p.m. 
Return  trips  are  scheduled  at  1 ,  2,  3,  and  4:30  p.m.,  according  to  Glenn  fl.  Spoerke, 
acting  director  of  the  Earth  Science  Division. 

Forestry  Technology 

The  forestry  technology  students  will  hold  a  log  skidder  contest  among  themselves. 

They  will  maneuver  the  log  skidder  through  a  pre-set  course  and  will  be  timed.   A  log 

skidder  is  used  to  remove  a  fallen  tree  from  the  woods. 

Surveying  Equipment 

A  display  on  surveying  equipment  used  by  students  is  scheduled  to  be  set  up  in 
Room  11 4  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus  and  information  will  be  provided  by  the  College 

Information  Office. 


Wood  Products  and  The  Sawmill 

Wood  products  technology  students  are  giving  tours  of  the  sawmill  which  is  located 
about  200  yards  from  the  central  building  and  give  demonstrations  showing  how  logs 

become  lumber. 
A  display  of  common  wood  products  available  in  the  marketplace  today  are  set  up 

in  Room  1 1 3. 

Dairy  Product  Taata  Test 

Agribusiness  and  dairy  herd  management  students  are  holding  a  dairy  product  taste 
test.   They  are  using  real  and  imitation  dairy  products. 

Computers 

Demonstrations  are  being  given  showing  how  the  computer  is  used  to  control  feeding  on 

the  farm. 

Farm  Equipment  Display 

Farm  equipment  and  animal  health  equipment  is  on  display.  An  actual  demonstration 

using  a  live  calf  shows  how  the  health  equipment  works. 

Please  continue  reading  on  next  page 


OpanHousaSunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     19 

It's  easy  if  you  know  how: 

heavy  equipment  gets  'ride' 

in  unique  'rodeo' 

Contlnuad  from  previous  page 

About  Qardaning 

A  spring  gardening  and  seed  germination  slide  show  is  being  sliown  througfiout 
Open  House  liours.   Demonstrations  of  an  automatic  seeder  and  fiorai  design  tectiniques 

are  being  presented. 

Small  Engines  and  Equipment 

Secondary  vocational  technology  students  are  presenting  displays  of  small  engines 

and  equipment.  Visitors  are  being  invited  to  "look  around"  the  small  engine  shop  to  see 

what  high  school  students  use  in  their  learning  activities  during  the  18  weeks  they  spend 

on  the  College  campus. 

Flowers:  fresh,  silk,  and  dried 

Horticulture  students  are  presenting  a  display  of  silk,  dried,  and  fresh  flowers  in 
Room  1 1 5,  Earth  Science.   There  are  tours  of  the  greenhouse  available  all  day  long.   In- 
structors and  other  College  employees  are  on  hand  to  answer  questions. 

Heavy  Equipment  Rodeo 

Service  and  operation  of  heavy  construction  equipment  students  are  displaying 

hydraulic  hook-ups  and  pressure  gauges.  The  students  are  demonstrating  them  on  their 

equipment  to  show  how  the  so-called  "gadgets"  work. 

A  highlight  of  the  day  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus  is  the  "Heavy  Equipment 

Rodeo"  which  begins  at  noon. 

Got  a  chill? 

Solar  hot  water  heating 

exhibit  may  be  an  answer 

In  the  plumbing  and  heating  shops  in  the 

vicinity  of  Room  1 37  of  the  Building  Trades 

Center,  students  are  demonstrating  combustion 

testing  and  other  related  skills. 

In  the  same  section  are  displays  of  solar  hot 

water  heating,  wood  burning  heating,  and  other 

systems. 

Computer  science  faculty 

demonstrate 

microcomputers 

In  Room  321  of  the  Academic  Center, 
home  computer  applications,  electronic  spread- 
sheet analysis,  and  word  processing  is  being 
demonstrated  on  different  models  of  microcom- 
puters. 
Faculty  members  are  on  hand  to  explain  the 
relationship  of  these  activities  pertaining  to  the 
computer  science  curriculum. 


"Little  rooms"  used  to  help  students 
practice  skills  In  tile:  Building  Trades 
Center 


20     •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Open  HouM  Sunday,  March  25,  1984 


'   .11111     *■  •■ 

i 

1 

'^ 

1 

Might  look  like  a  "crazy  machine",  but  It's  us- 
ed to  control  whole  assembly  lines:  Technical 
Trades  Center 


Need  income  tax  help? 
Service  available  In  LRC 

The  Business  and  Computer  Science  Divi- 
sion is  offering  a  Voluntary  Income  Tax 
1  Assistance  (VITA)  Program  In  the  Tutorial  Center 
located  in  the  Learning  Resources  Center  (LRC). 
Fourth  semester  accounting  students  are 
assisting  anyone  who  would  like  help  with  their 
income  tax  returns. 
The  tax  service  is  free  and  will  be  continued 
until  Thursday,  April  12. 
Service  hours  are  3:30  p.m.  to  5:30  p.m.  on 
Mondays  and  Wednesdays  and  3:30  p.m.  to 
7:30  p.m.  on  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays. 


Financial  planning 
subject  of  video,  comment 

A  videotape  presentation  dealing  with  finan- 
cial planning  is  being  given  in  Room  319  of  the 
Academic  Center  during  Open  House  today. 
Ray  F,  Tyler,  associate  professor  of 
business  administration,  will  be  on  hand  to  ex- 
plain the  College's  business  management  cur- 
riculum. 


Visitors  may  'compute' 
in  Computer  Science  Lab 

The  Computer  Science  Laboratory,  in  Room 
314,  Academic  Center,  is  open  to  visitors  in- 
terested in  the  College's  computer  science  cur- 
riculum. 
Demonstrations,  explanations,  and  "hands 
on"  experiences  with  computers  are  being  of- 
fered. 
Computer  science  faculty  members  and 
students  are  available  to  answer  questions  about 
the  computer  science  program. 

Bulletin  boards  reflect 
secretarial  science  students  worl( 

Bulletin  boards  on  the  third  floor  of  the 

Academic  Center  were  prepared  by  advanced 

secretarial  science  students. 

Their  work  on  the  boards  is  part  of  an 

organization  and  display  practice  related  to  their 

curriculum. 


Continental  breakfast 

and  dinner  offered 

in  cafeteria 

A  continental  breakfast  and  a  dinner  are  be- 
ing served  today  in  the  Canteen  Corp.-operated 
cafeteria  in  the  Academic  Center. 
The  breakfast  is  being  served  from  1 0  a.m. 
to  11  a.m. 
Dinner  is  being  served  from  1 1  a.m.  to  2:30 
p.m. 
The  dinner  menu  includes  fruit  cup.  roast  torn 
turkey,  home-made  stuffing,  creamy  mashed 
potatoes,  giblet  gravy,  buttered  cornniblets, 
cranberry  sauce,  hot  roll  and  butter,  and  home- 
made cake. 
The  cost  of  the  dinner  is  $3.75. 
Also  being  served,  a  la  carte,  are  milk, 
juices,  soft  drinks,  coffee,  tea,  and  home-made 
cherry  glazed  custards. 
Ms.  Lucy  F.  Twigg  is  chef. 


OpenHouseSunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     21 


The  Prolesstonal  Development  Center,  be- 
ing constructed  along  lower  Susquehanna 
Street,  is  an  ongoing  student  project, 
A  model  display  o(  the  building  being  built 
by  students  is  available  lor  viewing  in  the  ar- 
chitectural studio  on  the  second  floor  of  the 
Learning  Resources  Center. 
At  the  site,  students  were  scheduled  to  be 
working  today  to  further  demonstrate  their 
learning-by-doing  skills. 
Other  Architectural  Projects 
Also  In  the  studio,  a  slide  program  and 
other  student  architectural  projects  will  be  on 
display 


;lSSWS:<WftS¥«W¥i!a'WS!SM;S¥»^^ 


Construction  site 

'speaks'  for  major 

student  project 


Civil  engineering 
projects  on  display 


Open  House  visitors  today  may  see 
demonstrations  on  equipment  and  receive  infor- 
mation about  how  civil  engineers  design 
highways,  bridges,  dams,  and  other  projects  In 
Room  100  of  the  Building  Trades  Center. 
Among  demonstrations  planned  are  those 
on  surveying  instruments  which  determine 
distances  electronically,  on  transits  and 
theodolites  which  measure  angles,  and  leveling 
devices  which  check  for  differences  in  eleva- 
tions. 
Another  display  will  be  of  student  projects 
and  the  equipment  used  In  soils  and  fluid  labs. 


Tired  of  fingerpainting... 
and  ready  for  College? 
Sadie,  daughter  of  Linda 
J.  Sheats,  a  secretarial 
science  student  at  the 
Community  College,  was 
caught  in  a  "studious" 
mood 


SPOTLIQHT  SPECIAL    •     Open  HouM  Sunday,  March  25, 1984 


'Swinging  into  Spring' 

fashion  show  to  be  staged 

at  2:30  in  Auditorium 


"Swinging  into  Spring"  is  the  theme  of  a 
fashion  show  to  be  presented  by  fashion  mer- 
chandising students  in  the  retail  management 
program  at  2:30  p.m.  today  in  the  Academic 
Center  Auditorium. 
The  show's  purpose  is  to  demonstrate  the 
proper  attire  for  success  in  the  business  world. 
Faculty  and  staff  members  will  model  casual 
sportswear,  business  and  officewear,  and  formal 
wear. 
The  show  is  part  of  the  students'  classwork. 
Outfits  for  the  show  are  provided  by  local  retail 
establishments. 


Putting  it  together 

with  welding: 

students  showing  how 

In  the  welding  shop  in  the  Metal  Trades 
Center,  students  are  demonstrating  welding  pro- 
cesses. 
Displays  on  welding  equipment  and 
materials  will  be  set  up. 
A  slide  program  on  welding  will  be  shown 
in  Room  1 07  of  the  Is/letal  Trades  Center, 


Graphic  arts  tours 
conducted  by  students 

The  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  (graphic  arts 

fraternity)  members  will  host  Open  House  for  the 

graphic  arts  section  In  the  Administration 

Building,  according  to  Charles  E.  Earle,  graphic 

arts  student  from  Troy  and  club  member. 

The  club  members  will  conduct  tours  of  the 

department  and  give  demonstrations  of  the 

typesetting,  press,  and  camera  areas. 

In  addition  to  the  tours,  various  samples  of 

work  from  the  graphic  arts  courses  will  be 

distributed,  Earle  said. 

Faculty  members  will  also  be  present  to 

answer  questions. 


Ice  cream  mixer 

from  spare  parts 

demonstrates  project 

An  ice  cream  mixer  created  from  spare 
parts  as  well  as  a  refrigeration  compressor  are 
on  display  in  the  air  conditioning  and  refrigera- 
tion section  of  the  Building  Trades  Center. 
In  Room  1 1 4,  Building  Trades  Center,  air 
conditioning  and  refrigeration  students  will  be  at 
work  on  projects  related  to  their  study  cur- 
riculum. 


%. 


Secondary  program  (high  school)  masonry 
students  puttin'  down  the  mortar:  Building 
Trades  Center 


Open  House  Sunday,  March  25,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     23 


View  of  the  future:  The  Library  will  be  seen  from  inside  the  new  Lifelong  Education 
Center  which  Is  slated  for  full  use  next  Fall. 


Construction  carpentry  students  built  the  house...  now  It's  up  to  the  masonry  students 
to  do  the  brick  and  stone  work:  Building  Trades  Center 


24     •    SPOTLIGHT  SPECIAL     •     Open  Hous»  Sunday,  March  25,  1984 


CAMPUS  MAP 


KEY  TO  BUILDING  ABBREVIATIONS 


ATC 

Automotive  Trades  Center 

GYM 

Gymnasium 

DC 

Diesel  Center 

LRC 

Learning  Resources  Center 

TTC 

Technical  Trades  Center 

BTC 

Building  Trades  Center 

TT1 

ADM 

Administration 

TT2 

GS 

General  Services 

TT3 

W 

Warehouse 

TT4 

AVC 

Aviation  Center 

MTC 

Metal  Trades  Center 

ESC 

Earth  Science  Center 

ACC 

Academic  Center 

H 

H 
O 


*       s 

Id  S 

«    W     ^ 

<|^ 

-in- 

«  ?-  * 

i  E  % 
III 


Thursday  Holiday  Still  On; 

some  classes  have  to  be  made  up, 

but  there's  a  special  way  to  do  it 


17 


Middle  States  Team  on  Campus; 
accreditation  review  process  begins 


DR.  DANIEL  J.  DOYLE, 
(sUnding)  professor  of 
goverameDl,  history, 
sociology  and  philosophy,  lad 
Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean  of 
educational  research,  plann- 
ing and  evaluation,  were 
among  those  who  prepared 
for  visit.  /SPOTLIGHT  photo 
by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


Bluegrass  Festival  This  Thursday; 

ADMISSION  free  TO  STUDENTS  WITH  I.D. 


Monday.  April  9.  1984 


Survey  shows  75  percent 

of  full-time  students 
'in  SPOTLIGHT  habit' 


Preliminary  compiialion  of  responses  to  a 
survey  being  conducled  in  conjunction  with 
dasswork  indicate'  75  percent  of  full-time 
students  at  the  College  are  "in  the  SPOTLIGHT 
habit",  according  to  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  adviser 
to  the  student  newspaper. 

The  survey  was  conducted  as  a  project  by 
students  enrolled  in  Principles  of  Advertising 
classes  in  order  to  simulate  a  market  study. 

Part  of  the  study  focuses  on  information 
about  the  people  in  the  simulated  market  and 
another  part  focuses  on  media  available  in  the 
simulated  market,  Cillo  said.  The  full-lime  stu- 
dent population  at  the  College  was  used  to  create 
the  simulated  market,  he  added. 

Cillo,  who  is  also  associate  professor  of 


Journalism,  said  the  survey  was  based  on  prin- 
ciples of  random  sampling.  Information 
gathered  will  be  used  by  students  enrolled  in  the 
classes  for  decision-making  about  advertising 
and  promotion  for  a  simulated  client. 

Among  the  questions  routinely  asked  about 
medfa  available  were  ones  about  the 
SPOTLIGHT.  Answers  showed  that  the  largest 
majority  of  students  pick  up  the  student 
newspaper  on  a  "regular"  basis  every  week  and 
the  next  largest  indicated  that  students  pick  up 
the  newspaper  "frequently". 

According  to  the  survey  responses,  another 
important  means  by  which  students  get  College 
information  is  "bulletin  boards".  Sixteen  per- 
cent of  the  respondents  said  bulletin  boards  are 
their  main  source  of  information. 


ThaVs  friendship!  Theater  group 
tells  it  like  Shakespeare  told  it 

The  Bloomsburg  Theatre  Ensemble  presented  "Shakespeare  and  Friends"  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium  last  Tuesday. 

The  selection  of  five  scenes  from  the  plays  of  William  Shakespeare  dealing  with  friendship 
gave  a  close  look  at  the  emphasis  placed  on  friendship  in  his  works. 

The  troupe  of  four,  out  of  a  total  company  of  over  70,  which  appeared  at  the  College 
prefaced  each  scene  with  a  short  explanation  of  the  interactions  between  individuals  as  those  in- 
teractions specifically  revolved  around  friendship. 

Actors,  Martin  Schell  and  Charles  Matheny  and  actresses  Julie  Flood  and  Martha  Kemper 
opened  their  selections  with  a  scene  from  As  You  like  ll.  In  the  scfne,  two  female  cousins 
decide  to  run  away  and  live  in  the  woods  after  they  are  jilted. 

Their  performance  closed  with  a  scene  from  A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream  in  which 
the  couples  run  to  the  woods  and  stumble  into  love  spells  with  each  ofher.  The  shuffle  of  affec- 
tion was  true  comedy. 

Also  included  was  a  sonnet,  recited  by  Martha  Kemper,  simply  entitled  "Sonnets  for 
Friends". 

The  Bloomsburg  Theatre  Ensemble,  in  existence  for  seven  years,  puts  on  full-scale  produc- 
tions for  six  months  of  the  year.  For  the  remaining  months,  troupes  travel  to  various  college 
campuses  to  perform. 


Distinguished  Teaching 
Awards  committee 
reviewing  18  nominations 

The  selection  board  for  the  Distinguished 
Teaching  Award  has  been  holding  meetings 
recently  to  determine  this  year's  recipient,  said 
Dr.  Robert  G.  Bowers,  executive  assistant  for  in- 
ternal affairs.  A  total  of  18  teachers  from  the 
College  have  been  nominated. 

The  board  met  on  Thursday,  March  22  and 
again  last  Thursday,  at  which  time  they  applied 
the  nominations  to  the  award  criteria  outlined  in 
the  Distinguished  Teaching  Awards  booklet,  said 
Dr.  Bowers. 

Members  of  the  committe  consist  of  Dr. 
Bowers;  Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch,  dean  of 
academic  affairs;  Ruth  A.  Fischer,  student 
government  representative,  and  three  immediate 
past  recipients  of  the  award. 

The  past  award  winners  are  Dr.  Peter  B. 
Dumanis,  professor  of  English,  1983,  and  Mrs. 
Veronica  M.  Muzic,  professor  of  English,  1982. 

Since  the  award  has  only  been  in  existence 
for  two  years,  and  so  there  are  only  two  previous 
winners,  a  third  judge  had  to  be  selected.  Dr. 
Bowers  said  Victor  A.  Michael  Sr.,  associate 
professor  of  electronics  was  selected.  Michael  is 
i  1982  recipient  of  an  Excellance  in  Teaching 
Award. 

Dr.  Bower  said  the  committee  should  be 
able  to  make  a  recommendation  by  April  20.  It 
will  present  the  choice  for  the  award  to  Dr. 
Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president,  who  will 
make  the  final  decision  on  the  recipient,  added 
Dr.  Bowers. 

This  year's  recipient  will  be  announced  by 
Dr.  Breuder  at  the  commencement  on  May  12. 


Commencement  Committee 
to  meet  tomorrow 

A  meeting  of  all  members  of  the  Com- 
mencement Committee  is  set  for  3  p.m. 
tomorrow,  according  to  Lawrence  W, 
Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling,  career 
development,  and  placement. 

The  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Presi- 
dent's Conference  Room  in  the  Ad- 
ministration Building. 


Monday,  April  9,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     3 

Journalism  graduate 
named  ad  manager 
for  publication 

Yvonne  M.  Swartz,  a  1982  graduate  of  the 
journalism  program  at  the  College,  has  been  ap- 
pointed advertising  manager  for  The  Solar  Pro- 
fessional, a  publication  of  the  Northeast  Solar 
Energy  Industries  Association,  Stamford,  Conn. 

According  to  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate 
professor  of  journalism,  a  news  item  in  the 
publication  about  the  appointment,  states: 

"Miss  Swartz's  college  education  in  jour- 
nalism and  previous  professional  experience  with 
a  daily  newspaper  qualify  her  for  these  duties 
and  make  her  an  excellent  in-house  resource  for 
firms  not  using  ad  agencies." 

As  advertising  manager,  Miss  Swartz  will 
handle  the  publication's  advertising  accounts 
and  supervise  copy  preparation. 

While  attending  the  College,  Miss  Swartz 
was  a  member  of  The  SPOTLIGHT  staff  and 
served  one  term  as  managing  editor. 

It's  National  Library  Week; 
fines  to  be  'forgiven' 

This  week  is  National  Library  Week.  In 
observation  of  this  event,  the  Library  is  holding 
"forgiveness  week". 

During  this  time  period,  overdue  books  may 
be  returned  with  no  penalty  assessed,  according 
to  Mrs.  Kate  D.  Hickey,  College  librarian. 
Books  for  which  fines  have  already  been  assess- 
ed, however,  are  not  included,  she  added. 

In  observance  of  the  occasion,  too,  the 
Library  has  set  up  three  special  displays  featur- 
ing women's  studies,  featuring  anthropologist 
Margaret  Mead,  and  featuring  George 
Washington. 


Library  receives 
new  furniture 

The  College  Library  has  received 
new  furniture.  It  is  being  used  in  the 
study  area  on  the  second  floor,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Kate  D.  Hickey,  College 
librarian. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9, 1984 

[Editor's  Note:  Just  lor  fun,  we  asked  a  light-hearted  question  this  week.  We 
hope  you  appreciate  the  responses] 

Question:  II  you  could  be  any  animal,  what  would  you  be?  Why? 
Location:  Administration  Building 


Photo*  by  Mary  L.  Poato 
Taxt  by  Rodnay  D.  Hill 


Susan  E  Cowher,  broad- 
casting student  from  Millheim:  "A 
horse  because  of  their  free  spirit 
while  running  wild  in  the  fields." 


Jeffrey  S.  Rachau.  broad- 
casting student  from  Watson- 
town;  "A  grizzly  bear  because 
they  are  rough  and  tough." 

J.  Wesley  Vanzile,  broad- 
casting student  from  Port 
Allegheny;  "A  cockatoo  because 
I  think  they  are  a  beautiful  bird," 

Mark  A.  Umphred,  graphic 
arts  student  from  Shavertown:  "A 
panther  because  they  are  loners, 
good  hunters  and  they  are  fast," 

Question:  Do  you  think  viewing  an  execution  on  television  would  act 
t  a  deterrent  toward  crime?  Why? 
Location:   Earth  Science  Center 


Photos  by  Lorl  M.  Lans 
Text  by  Richard  E.  Kopp  Jr. 


Barbara  L.  Son- 
nenberg,  floriculture  stu- 
dent from  Jersey  Shore; 
"No,  I  don't  think  so. 
Seeing  it  on  television 
would  overdramatize  it." 


Naomi  C.  Wheatley, 
agribusiness  student 
from  Williamsport:  "It 
might  affect  certain  peo- 
ple, but  it  is  not  good  for 
children  or  people  who 
can't  handle  that  sort  of 
thing." 


Kevin  C.  Hepfer, 
forestry  technology  stu- 
dent from  Cortland,  N.Y.; 
"No,  I  don't  think  so.  If 
someone  Is  going  to  kill 
someone  else,  they  will 
probably  do  it  out  of 
anger  and  not  think 
about  the  conse- 
quences." 


Bruce     A.     Hontz, 

rsery    management 

student    from    Wilkes- 

"^  ifi'4  Barre;   "No,  I  don't  think 

'r  ^.  so  because  you  would 

Jf  not    murder    someone 

with  the  expectations  of 

t    '      being  caught." 


Monday,  April  9,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     • 

Disaster  movie  blends 
realism  and  courage 

Television  review  by  Anne  T.  Moratelli 

After  viewing  television's  Flight  1190:  Disaster  on  the  Potomac  last  Sunday  evening,  I 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  not  a  typical  disaster  movie- 
It  was  based  on  a  plane  crasti  whicti  occurred  on  Jan.  1 3. 1 982  on  a  737  commercial  jet 
enroute  to  Tampa,  Florida.  The  plane  crashed  shortly  alter  takeoff  into  the  14tH  Street 
Bridge  in  Washington,  D.C.  and  dropped  into  the  icy  Potomac  River. 

The  film  was  very  realistic.  The  viewer  could  really  feel  sympathy  and  compassion  for 
the  victims  who  survived  the  crash  and  held  on  helplessly  waiting  lor  help  to  arrive 

The  audience  witnesses  people  turning  blue  from  frostbite  and  clinging  on  ice  chunks 
for  safety. 

The  movie  was  blended  with  news  footage  and  recreations. 

The  movie  in  actuality  consisted  of  two  subjects;  The  crash  and  the  heroism  of  a  young 
man  named  Lenny  Skutnik  who  cared  enough  to  dive  into  the  frozen  waters  to  rescue  a 
young  woman  (played  by  actress,  Dinah  (Vlanoff).  It  is  important  to  know  that  Skutnik  was  not 
involved  In  the  crash  and  all  of  the  passengers  on  the  flight  were  all  strangers  to  him. 

The  bravery  and  courage  Skutnik  displayed  showed  that  there  are  still  heroes  left  in  this 
world. 

After  sitting  back  and  reflecting  on  this  movie,  I  think  it  was  worth  watching  because  it 
wasn't  just  another  typical  disaster  movie  -  it  was  a  movie  of  courage  and  it  was  well- 
dramatized! 

Gal  way  adds  a  flavor 
of  nostalgia  to  his  tape 

Music  review  by  Sandra  R.  Taylor 

James  Galway  brings  nostalgia  to  bloom  in  his  tape.  James  Galway,  The  Pachetbel 
Canon  and  Others. 

Galway  is  a  flutist.  In  his  tape,  he  is  accompanied  by  The  Sydney  Symphony  Orchestra. 
His  music  ranged  from  /  Started  A  Jol<e  to  the  Jamaican  Rumba,  to  the  ever  famous  Waltz- 
ing Matilda.  This  tape  sets  a  mood  of  gayety.  The  Long  White  Cloud  and  Motley  on  the 
Shore  send  you  sailing  over  calm  waters  or  dancing  barefoot  on  a  meadow  of  clovers  in  the 
Spring. 

Galway  can  also  be  seen  on  public  cable  television  -  with  or  without  an  orchestra.  As  a 
soloist,  his  performance  is  outstanding.  In  an  age  of  rock-n-roll,  the  chances  of  a  flutist  sur- 
viving are  slim.  That  should  attest  Galway's  talent.  If  you  listened  to  his  tape,  you  would  at- 
test to  it  yourself. 

SPOTLIGHT     ■    Monday,  April  9,  1984     ■    Vol.  19,  No.  30 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  publisfied  each  Monday  morning  of  the  academic  year,  except  tor  College  vacations,  by 
journaJIsm  and  other  interested  students  of  The  Williamsport  Area  Community  College 

-  ■  -     ■        1005  W    Thitd  St,  Wiiliamsport.   Pa    17701       Telephone.  (717) 


Opinions  expressed  are  those  of  the  student  newspaper  or  of  those  whose  names  accompany  items   Opinions 
do  not  reflect  official  opinion  of  the  institution. 

The  SPOTLIGHT  is  a  member  ol  the  Columbia  Scholastic  Press  Assoclalion  and  a  First  Place  winner  in  that 
organization's  most  recent  evaluation. 

THE  STAFF 

Joan  L.  Thompson,  managing  editor;  Perry  0  Pentz.  editorial  page  editor.  Maty  L  Pease,  photography  editor;  An- 
•  nette  M  Engei,  composition  manager.  Thomas  F  Montgomery,  production  supervisor.  Lori  M  Lane,  sports  editor; 
Thomas  H  Long,  administrative  affairs  editor;  Kay  M  Frace,  student  affairs  editor;  Giseia  D  Grassley,  advertising 
manager;  Barbi  L  Chilson.  photomechanical  technician.  Gregory  W   Hull,  senior  staff  writer 

REPORTERSISTAFF  ASSOCIATES 

Donna  M.  Barnett.  Kathleen  R  Foreman,  Kathryn  lul  Qilbert.  Robert  O  Hawk,  Rodney  D.  Hill,  Richard  E.  Kopp 
Jr.,  Kathy  A.  Meixel,  Anne  T   Moratelli.  James  K   Morrissey,  Mark  S  Schwanke.  Sandra  R.  Taylor 
Faculty  adviser   Anthony  N   Cilio 


6     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9,  1984 

Name-the-Cafeteria 
Contest 

Clip  this  form 
and  enter  your  suggestion 


Name: 


Course  of  Study  or  Department: 


Check  One:     D  Student     D  Employee     D  Group/Organization 


I/We  submit  the  following  name  for  tlie  new  dining  facility  in 
the  new  Lifelong  Education  Center: 


Contest  open  to  all  students 

faculty,  and  staff.  As  many  entries 

as  desired  may  be  submitted. 


Ballot  boxes  are  available  in  Intramural  Athletics 
and  College  Activities  Office  in  Gymnasium...  in 
Room  204,  Administration  Building...  and  in  the 
Student  Government  Association  Office,  Room 
136,  Academic  Center. 

A  Student  Government  Association  Project 


Scheduling  underway 
for  Summer  and  Fall 

On-line  scheduling  for  both  Summer  and 
Fall  semesters  is  officially  underway,  according 
to  Ms.  Connie  R.  Kelsey,  assistant  registrar,  stu- 
dent records. 

Current  students  who  did  not  schedule  dur- 
ing the  April  2  through  6  Fall  scheduling  week 
and  who  are  not  graduating  should  meet  with 
their  advisers  at  their  earliest  convenience,  she 
stated. 

The  Student  Records  Office  window  is  open 
from  8  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.  daily  to  accomodate 
students,  she  said. 


Cillo's 

College  Corner 

We'll  prepare  your 
favorite  Subs  and  Burgers 
the  way  you  like  them! 


Play  LUCKY  NUMBERS 
and 
win  a  whole  Sub 

and 
a  Medium  Drink. 

Cillo's  College  Corner 
1100  W.  Third  SI.,  WUIiamsport 
(Next  lo  Academic  Center) 
Phone  Ahead:   322-1321 
Hours:   7:30  a.m.  to  6M  p.m. 
Monday  through  Friday 


Monday,  April  9,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     7 

Business  Symposium 
has  'low'  turnout 
due  to  bad  weather; 
300  students  attend 

"Despite  the  fact  that  only  12  of  the  ex- 
pected 30  schools  showed  up,  the  event  went 
well,"  said  Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  business  administration,  about  the  10th 
Annual  Business  Symposium  held  at  the  College 
on  Friday,  March  30. 

Goldfeder  said  the  weather  on  the  previous 
Thursday  was  a  major  factor  for  the  lower  tur- 
nout for  the  academic  competition, 

"Several  schools  in  outlying  districts  called 
me  and  cancelled  their  appearances,"  said 
Goldfeder.  "A  total  of  300  students  did  show 
up,  however." 

The  retail  merchandising  students' 
"Fashion  Pizzazz"  fashion  show  was  a 
"tremendous  success",  said  Goldfeder. 
Students  modelled  for  and  produced  the  show 
under  the  direction  of  Robert  L.  Lyons,  assistant 
professor  of  retail  management. 

Overall  grand  prizes  were  awarded  to 
Milton  Area  High  School  and  Montgomery  Area 
High  School.  "Williamsport  Area  High  School 
won  the  overall  grand  prize  in  the  AAAA  Divi- 
sion," Goldfeder  said. 

Dr.  Robert  L,  Breuder,  College  president, 
and  Mario  Caldera,  chairman  of  the  College 
Board  of  Trustees,  presented  trophies  to  winning 
schools  and  students  at  an  awards  ceremony  in 
the  Academic  Center  (ACC)  Auditorium, 

Goldfeder  noted  that  "Dr,  Breuder  and  Mr. 
Caldera  were  overwhelmed  by  the  enthisiastic 
response  and  attitude  of  the  students  at  the 
awards  presentation," 


God  spell 
Coming  Soon 


B     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9,  1984 

Commencement  apparel 

will  be  available 

next  Monday 

in  College  Bookstore 

Clothing  for  commencement  will  be 
available  at  the  College  Bookstore  next  Monday, 
April  16,  according  to  Mrs.  Eleonore  R. 
Holcomb,  Bookstore  supervisor. 

(The  reference  to  a  one-tripper  cap,  gown, 
and  hood  alludes  to  the  fact  that  these  garments 
are  keepsakes,  she  said.) 

Prices  for  the  various  garments  are  as 
follows: 

Student  one-tripper  cap  and  gown  with 
tassel,  $13. 

Associate  one-tripper  hood,  $11, 

The  '84  tassel  for  student,  $3.25. 

Cap,  $3.75, 

White  collar  (females  only),  no  charge. 

Bachelor's  one-tripper  hood,  $12.50. 

Master's  one-tripper  hood,  $13.75. 

Bachelor's  one-tripper  cap,  gown  with 
tassel,  $17.50. 

Master's  one-tripper  cap,  gown  with  tassel, 
$19. 

Plain  black  tassel,  $3. 

Doctoral  one-tripper  cap,  gown  with  tassel, 
$23.50. 

Doctoral  one-tripper  hood,  $18.50. 

Gold  silk  tassel,  $9.50. 


Creative  Kitchen 

Monday,  April  9 

Country  Kitchen  Soup 
Pan  Fried  Liver  and  Onions 


Bar-B-Qued  Meat  Loaf 

Grandmother  Garden  Vegetables 

Wilted  Lettuce  Salad 

White  Chocolate  Ice  Cream  * 

Wednesday,  April  11 

Cock-a  Leskie  Soup 

Potted  Swiss  Steak 

smothered  with  Onions 

Chantilly  Potatoes 

Indian  Succotash 

Fresh  Vegetable  Salad 

Dilly  Bread 

Peach  Cobbler 

Thursday,  April  12 

Chinese  Sampler 

Coffee,  tea.  iced  tea,  milk,  and  water  served 
with  all  meals.  Meals  cost  $3.  Soups  served  with 
homemade  rolls.  Desserts  are  a  la  arte. 

Slippery  Rock  College 
transfer  counselor  here 

A  transfer  counselor  from  Slippery  Rock 
College  will  be  on  campus  this  Thursday  starting 
at  9  a.m. 

The  counselor  will  be  located  at  a  table  near 
Room  157,  Learning  Resources  Center,  to  pro- 
vide information  about  transferring  to  that  col- 


Highspeed  High  Fidelity. 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


Free  Alpine  key  ring  &  poster  wilh  purchase  of 
an  Alpine  car  stereo.   Installations  available. 

(In  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building) 
^==^=rBehind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)i 


Williamspori 

25  W.  Church  SJ. 

323-2622 


Monday,  April  9,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     9 


Planning  commission  chairman 
reviews  goals,  procedures 


By  Robert  0.  Hawk 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

The  chairman  of  the  Williamsport  Planning 
Commission,  Dr. Fred  L.  Grogan,  spoke  before 
Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle's  state  and  local  government 
class  as  part  of  ongoing  series  concerning  all 
aspects  of  the  functions  of  state  and  local 
government. 

Dr.  Grogan  discussed  the  goals  and  objec- 
tives of  the  city  planning  commission  as  well  as 
its  deficiences. 

In  opening  his  comments.  Dr.  Grogan  said 
the  commission  is  a  volunteer  body  and  its 
members  are  appointed  by  the  mayor  and 
members  of  the  City  Council. 

The  basic  responsibility  of  the  commission 
is  to  the  City  Council. 

Recommendations  made 

The  commission  is  consulted  on  topics  rang- 
ing from  installation  of  stop  lights  at 
troublesome  intersections  to  the  consideration  of 
the  best  types  of  right-of-ways  for  public 
transportation. 

Recommendations  are  made  to  the  City 
Council  in  three  primary  ways: 

First,  the  area  of  recommendations  which 
provides  zoning  exceptions  is  that  of  "special  ex- 
ceptions". An  example  of  this  is  the  American 
Rescue  Workers  request  to  open  a  men's  housing 
facility  in  an  area  zoned  as  residential. 

The  request  of  that  organization  was 
granted  and,  in  the  particular  case,  an  exception 
has  been  made. 

The  second  instance  is  that  of  "conditional 
uses".  In  this  case,  certain  functions  in  certain 
neighborhoods  can  be  permitted  only  on  the 
basis  of  an  increase  or  improvement  of  services. 
(For  example:  more  parking  and  road  and 
sidewalk  repair). 

The  third  kind  of  recommendation  comes 
under  the  category  of  "special  approval"  which 
calls  for  certain  areas  of  the  city  to  be  blocked 
off  for  special  functions  (the  cultural  or  theater 
district). 

Other  decisions 

Although  the  role  of  the  city  planning  com- 
mission can  be  overridden  by  the  City  Council,  it 
also  makes  decision  on  administrative  issues  in- 


volving the  city. 

In  comments  which  related  directly  to  the 
power  of  the  commission,  Dr.  Grogan  stated, 
"When  I  was  appointed  to  the  board,  the  com- 
mission had  no  teeth." 

On  the  subject  of  how  it  has  changed  since, 
he  said,  "We  wanted  to  make  a  living  document 
to  make  sure  that  we  set  in  play  some  suggestion 
that  would  force  City  Council  to  get  some  of 
them  done." 

Specific  instances  of  actions  the  commission 
was  involved  in  during  the  formulation  of  the 
new  comprehensive  city  plan  were  not  always 
positive  experiences,  he  said. 

Recently,  the  City  Council  did  some  "foot- 
dragging"  on  condemning  some  buildings  until  a 
boy  was  beaten  up  and  killed  in  one  of  them,  he 
said. 

This  is  not  the  rule,  however,  and  the  cir- 
cumstances of  the  changes  are  usually  much  less 
critical. 

Student  housing  noltd 

In  the  center  city  section,  for  example,  the 
problem  of  student  housing  was  raised  by 
landlords  offering  rooms  and  apartments.  The 
property  owners  expressed  their  very  low  esteem 
of  students  as  tenants  and  expressed  these  feel- 
ings before  City  Council. 

The  basic  concern  in  the  matter  was  that 
more  student  housing  should  be  provided  by  the 
College  or  the  city. 

Tighter  supervision  asked 

Dr.  Grogan's  account  of  his  answer  was, 
"As  the  state  prohibits  community  colleges  from 
having  dormitories,  the  College  itself  would  have 
to  arrange  with  a  private  developer  to  construct 
this  housing.  However,  this  was  found  not  to  be 
profitable  to  the  developers  and,  as  a  result,  the 
planning  commission  recommended  tighter  code 
supervision  in  existing  student  housing." 

In  closing  remarks,  Dr.  Grogan  said  the  job 
of  the  city  planning  commissioner  is  not  an  easy 
one.  If  citizens  want  something  done  badly 
enough  they  can  keep  calling  the  City  Council  of- 
fice, he  said. 

"You'd  be  surprised  what  you  can  get  done 
if  you  keep  after  them,"  he  said. 


Monday,  April  9,  1984 


Middle  States  Team  on  Campus; 
accreditation  review  process  begins 


By  Mary  L.  Peaae 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

A  dinner  and  informal  meeting  at 
Williamsport's  Ross  Club  last  night  was  to  have 
kicked  off  the  Middle  States  Evaluation  Team's 
visit  to  the  College,  according  to  Rodney  G. 
Hurley,  dean  of  educational  research,  planning 
and  evaluation. 

Approximately  60  College  administrative 
representatives  were  to  have  been  present. 

During  the  team's  visit,  which  will  extend 
through  Wednesday  afternoon,  members  will  be 
meeting  with  Student  Government  Association 
(SGA)  representatives  and  stopping  students  ran- 
domly in  various  hallways  and  buildings  to  ques- 
tion them  about  curriculums,  instruction,  and 
the  College  in  general. 

Already  an  accredited  institution  since 
1970,  the  College  now  is  being  evaluated  for 
reaffirmation,  with  particular  emphasis  placed 
on  the  long  range  planning  process. 

The  team  consists  of  Chairman  Robert  L. 
Cell,  Cecil  County  Community  College,  North 
East,  Md.;  Dennis  S.  Bartow,  dean  of  technical 
and  career  education,  Prince  George  Community 
College,  Largo,  Md.;  Charles  H.  Bohlen,  dean, 
University  Community  and  Technical  College, 
University  of  Toledo,  Oh.;  Robert  R.  Gallo, 
associate  professor  of  science,  Cayuga  County 
Community  College,   Auburn,   N.Y.;   Myma 


Goldenberg,  chair,  general  education  committee, 
professor  of  English  and  philosophy,  Mon- 
tgomery, Rockville,  Md.;  Barbaraann  H. 
Owad,  director  of  plannmg  research  and 
records,  Adirondack  Community  College,  Glen 
Falls,  N.Y.;  Gwendolyn  W.  Sanders,  dean  of 
student  services,  Deleware  Technical  and  Com- 
munity College,  Wilmington/Stanton  Campus, 
Wilmington,  Del.;  Anthony  Scaccia,  college 
business  officer,  SUNY  Agricultural  and 
Technical  College,  Delhi,  N.Y.;  Eleanor  F. 
Seminara,  director,  library,  Niagara  County 
Community  College,  Sanborn,  N.Y.  and 
Thomas  N.  Wilfrid,  chairperson.  Technology 
Division,  Mercer  County  Community  College, 
Trenton,  N.J. 

Also  working  with  the  team  is  James 
Hobbs,  an  education  administration  associate 
with  the  Bureau  of  Education  Field  Services,  and 
the  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Education, 
Harrisburg. 

Hurley  stated,  "All  the  people  involved  in 
long  range  planning  realize  that  the  planning 
doesn't  stop  after  the  Middle  States  Team  leaves. 
Three  more  months  of  long  range  planning  work 
will  continue  after  the  visit  -  most  of  this  work 
focusing  on  the  assessment  report." 

Also,  an  "extensive  review  and  develop- 
ment" follows  the  visit,  and  the  long  range  plan- 
ning process  will  be  following  a  "very  busy  agen- 
da" through  April,  added  Hurley. 


Students 

Why  fuss?  Stop 
by  us  and  pick  up 
a  delicious  dinner' 


BENSON 


Ofll  mini,   ^ 
ntn  market 


Corner  of  3rd  and  Maynard  Sts. 
Open     24     hours! 
We  never  tliise! 


Monday.  April  9,  1984 


RECEIVING  AWARDS  from  the  Susquehanna  Chapter  of  Professional  Engineers  for 
academic  abilities  are  (front  row,  left  to  right)  Timothy  J.  Mullen,  of  Williamsport,  tool 
design  technology;  Christopher  J.  Mitchell,  of  Bermuda,  architectural  technology;  Francis 
C.  Burchanowski,  of  Montoursville,  electronics  technology,  and  Randy  E.  Knzio,  of 
Williamsport,  civil  engineering  technology.  In  second  row  Oeft  to  right)  are  David  P.  Reich- 
wein,  of  Mount  Carmel,'  electrical  technology;  Robert  L.  Hamaker,  of  Williamsport, 
engineering  drafting  technology,  and  Jeffrey  A.  Solomon,  of  Williamsport,  engineering  draf- 
ting technology. 

Professional  Engineers  present 
awards  to  outstanding  students 

The  Susquehanna  Chapter  of  Professional  Engineers  presented  awards  to  outstanding 
students  in  engineering  drafting  technology,  tool  design  technology,  civil  engineering 
technology,  electrical  technology,  electronics  technology,  and  in  architectural  technology  at  a 
dinner  meeting  held  in  the  Sheraton  Motor  Inn,  Williamsport,  according  to  Chalmer  C.  Van 
Horn,  associate  professor  of  drafting  and  club  adviser. 

Awards  were  presented  to  John  W.  Hough,  retired  instructor  from  the  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College. 

Students  who  received  awards  are  Robert  L.  Hamalcer,  of  Williamsport,  engineering  draf- 
ting technology;  Jeffrey  A.  Solomon,  of  Williamsport,  engineering  drafting  technology; 
Timothy  J.  Mullen,  of  Williamsport,  tool  design  technology;  Randy  E.  Kuzio,  of  Williamsport, 
civil  enginering  technology;  Francis  C.  Burchanowski,  of  Montoursville,  electronics 
technology,  and  Christopher  J.  Mitchell,  of  Bermuda,  architectural  technology. 


12     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9,  19b4 

Women  score  big  in  IM  bowling 


The  women's  high  single  and  high  series 
scores  were  more  inpressive  than  ever  in  last 
week's  intramural  bowling  league. 

ResulU,  provided  by  the  ABC  Bowling 
Lanes,  include: 

Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  CU-JO  27        9 

2.  Destroyers  23       13 

3.  Boneheads  21'/:     UVi 

4.  Head  Pins  21        15 

5.  Cillo-Etts  20       16 

6.  Mad  Hatters  19       17 

7.  Dew  Crew  18       18 

8.  High  Rollers  18       18 

9.  Flintstones  15       21 

10.  Unpredictables  W/i    IVh 

11.  Bandits  \Wi    l^h 

12.  No  Names  5'/2     30 '/2 

Men's  high  singles 
Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Williamsport,  bowled  a  265. 
Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical  technology  stu- 
dent from  Scranton,  247. 

James  A.  Begley,  air  conditioning/refrigera- 
tion student  from  Beaver,  200. 

Women's  high  singles 
Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  194. 

Linda  S.  Shoup,  business  management  stu- 
dent from  Elysburg,  178. 

Denise  M.  King,  secretarial  science  student 
from  Cogan  Station,  165. 

High  team  singles 
Mad  Hatters,  881. 
Dew  Crew,  871. 
High  Rollers,  861. 

Men's  high  series 
Seber,  652. 
Reamsnyder,  606. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical  construction 
student  from  Shohola,  554. 

Women's  high  series 
McNeil,  450. 
Shoup,  443. 
King,  379. 

High  team  series 
Mad  Hatters,  2485. 
CU-JO,  2412. 
■     High  Rollers,  2390. 

Top  five  averages 
Seber,  217. 


Reamsnyder,  200. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
student  from  Fredericksburg,  180. 

Myles  S.  Murray,  carpentry  construction 
student  from  Wayne,  N.J.,  174. 

McKean,  171. 

Scott  R.  Mondschein,  electrical  occupations 
student  from  Coplay,  171. 


Electronics  Club 

volleyball 

tournament 

schedule 

Today,  6:30  p.m. 

l.P.T.  vs.  Who's  Us. 
Atomic  Power  vs.  Killer  Watts. 
Straub  Greenies  vs.  The  Ball  Drag- 
s. 

Today,7:30  p.m. 
Straub  Greenies  vs.  Atomic  Power. 
l.P.T.  vs.  The  Ball  Draggers. 
Who's  Us  vs.  Killer  Watts. 
Tomorrow,  6:30  p.m. 
The  Ball  Draggers  vs.  Atomic  Power. 
Who's  Us  vs.  Straubs  Greenies. 
l.P.T.  V.S.  Killer  Watts. 

Tomorrow,  7:30  p.m. 
Straub  Greenies  vs.  Killer  Watts. 
The  Ball  Draggers  vs.  Who's  Us. 
Atomic  Power  vs.  l.P.T. 
This  Wednesday,  April  11 
6:30  p.m. 
Killer  Watts  vs.  The  Ball  Draggers. 
l.P.T.  vs.  Straub  Greenies. 
Atomic  Power  vs.  Who's  Us. 
This  Wednesday,  April  11 
7:30  p.m. 
l.P.T.  vs.  Who's  Us. 
Atomic  Power  vs.  Killer  Watts. 
Straub  Greenies  vs.  The  Ball  Drag- 


Monday,  April  9.  1984 


Tennis  team  plays  first  match 


Members  of  the  College  tennis  team  played 
their  first  match  of  the  season  on  Tuesday,  April 
3,  losing  in  competition  that  was  closer  than  the 
score  indicates,  according  to  Coach  James  S. 
Young,  carpentry  instructor. 

The  score  was  seven  to  two  in  that  match 
which  was  won  by  Delaware  County  Communil)( 
College.  That  college,  as  winners,  boosted  its 
record  to  three  wins  and  no  losses,  commented 
Young. 

David  P.  Showan,  automotive  technology 
student  from  Lock  Haven,  won  in  a  siiigles 
match  and  also  in  the  doubles  match  with  his 
partner,  Paul  J.  Snyder  3rd,  electronics  student 
from  Williamsport. 

Jason  D.  Sharer,  non-degree  student  from 
Montoursville;  Theodore  R.  Fries,  individual 
studies  student  from  Williamsport,  and  Robert 
W.  Gregory,  computer  operator  student  from 

Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Today 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Softball  clinic...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 

Electronics  Club  tournament...  6:30  to 
8:30  p.m. 

Softball  clinic...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Open  gym...  8:30  to  10  p.m. 
Tomorrow 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

IM  bowling...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Softball  clinic...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 

Electronics  Club  tournament...  6:30  to 
8:30  p.m. 

Softball  clinic...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Open  gym...  8:30  to  10  p.m. 
Wednesday,  April  11 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Open  gym...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Softball  league  (teams  to  be  announced 
at  clinic)...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 
Thurday,  April  12 

There  will  be  no  intramural  activities; 
the  Seventh  Annual  Bluegrass  Festival  is 
scheduled  in  the  gymnasium. 


Mill  Hall,  lost  in  close  tie-breaker  matches, 
stated  Young. 

The  two  other  members  of  the  team  are 
Christopher  L.  Bennel,  carpentry  construction 
student  from  Mill  Hall,  and  Daniel  A.  Radke, 
general  studies  student  from  Williamsport. 

Students  interested  in  joining  the  team  may 
still  contact  Young  at  College  Ext.  476. 

Three  sessions  still 
available  for  students 
for  leadership  training 

Three  sessions  remain  this  week  and  next 
Monday  in  the  Leadership  Training  Program  be- 
ing co-sponsored  by  the  Intramural  Athletics 
and  College  Activities  Office  and  the  Counseling, 
Career  Development  and  Placement  OfTice. 

The  sessions  are  designed  for  all  student 
leaders  and  organization  advisers,  according  to 
Mrs.  JoAnn  R.  Fremiotii,  coordinator  of  in- 
tramural athletics  and  College  activities. 

There  is  no  cost  to  participants. 

Today,  from  3  to  4:30  p.m.,  a  session  on 
"stress  management"  will  be  conducted  by  Ms. 
Kathryn  A.  Ferrence,  career  development 
specialist.  The  session  will  be  in  Room  221, 
Academic  Center. 

This  Wednesday,  at  the  same  time,  a  ses- 
sion on  "group  dynamics"  will  also  be  con- 
ducted by  Ms.  Ferrence.  This  session,  too,  is  in 
Room  221,  Academic  Center. 

Next  Monday,  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate 
professor  of  journalism  and  SPOTLIGHT  ad- 
viser, will  lead  a  session  on  parliamentary  pro- 
cedure. The  session  will  be  from  3  to  4:30  p.m. 
in  Room  221  of  the  Academic  Center. 


1AKECARE 
OF  TOUR 
LUNGS. 


L,  AMERICAN 

pLUNG 

I    ASSOCIATION 

I®    The  Chrisimas  Seal  People* 


Monday,  April  9,  1984 


SPIKERS  AND  SETTERS  continue  fast-paced  volleyball  action  as  iolramural  sports  come 
to  a  close  this  month.   /SPOTLIGHT pholo  by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


Date 

April  7 
April  14 
April  19 
April  25 
April  27 
May  4 
May  5 


1984  Tennis  Schedule 

Opponent  Place 

Montgomery  County  Community  College     Home 


Lehigh  County  Community  College  Home 

P.S.U.  Wilkes-Barre  Away 

Keystone  Junior  College  Home 

Northampton  County  Area  CC  Home 

Bucks  County  Community  College  Away 
EPCCAC  Tournament  at  Montgomery 

County  Community  College  Away  II  a.m. 

A II  home  matches  are  played  al  Memorial  Park  on  West  Fourth  Street,  west  of  the  city  cam- 
pus. 


Time 

12  p.m. 
I  p.m. 
1  p.m. 
3  p.m. 
1  p.m. 
3  p.m. 


Come  Relax  --  Meet  your  Friends 
Play  VicJeo  and  Pinball 

Special 

Free  Can  of  Soda 
With  Any  Whole  Sub 
With  This  Ad 


Wooly's   Place 

234  Park  St. 

East  End  of  College 

Phone  326-7983 


Monday,  April  9,  1984 


ACROSS 

1  Ocean 
4  Make 

suitable 
9  Small  child 

12  Moccasin 

13  Apportioned 

14  Mountain  on 
Crete 

15  Limb 

16  Hebrew 


17  River  duck 

18  Uncanny 

20  Note  of  scale 

21  Man's 
nickname 

23  Males 

24  Warning 


28  Crony:  colloq 
30  Soaks 

thoroughly 
32  Exchange 

34  Scottish  cap 

35  Communists 

36  Finished 

39  Female  fuff 

40  Discovers 

41  Inlet 

43  Clerical 
degree:  abbr. 

44  Negative 

45  Encircles 
47  Keen 

50  Heavy  mallet 

51  Armed 
conflicl 


S  0   OH  CI  Ll 

^SEH 

TOY 

*    H    a|l|o| 

S    TS| 

H    1     E 

CAN 

0 

E|. 

r  A  s  s 

E    L    S 

BAP 

1  1    E 

R 

AS 

BEE 

RES 

E 

N    T 

S  1   S    T 

A    L| 

L 

E    A 

.?|  s 

A  G    A 

P    1     T 

1 

D    1 

ETS| 

PAN 

1     T    E 

l£ 

ARES 

|M    . 

0    E    A 
SET 

N 

"l. 

<    1     N    E 

T    1     C 

E 

t! 

1    P    A    T 

E  1  1 

T 

E   E 

S|    T    A 

MED 

A  V  EH  Eini 

A?0| 

PAR 

M    A    dHo|o| 

lor| 

TRYl 

54  Native  metal 

55  Flowering  shrub 

56  Mature 

57  Wager 

58  Dignity 

59  Parent : 
colloq 

DOWN 

1  Resort 

2  Organ  ot 
hearing 

3  Highest  point 

4  Worships 

5  Rules 

6  Toward 
shelter 

7  Through 
6  Football 

score:  abbr 
9  Stalemate 

10  Room  in 
harem 

11  Hindu 
cymbals 

17  Turkic 
tribesman 

19  Printer's 
measure 

20  Preposition 

21  Swiftly 

22  Capital  of 
Nigeria 

24  Expressed  by 
numbers 


25  Roman  road 

26  Gave  up 

27  Ancient 
chariot 

29  Flaccid 
3 1  Make  lace 
33  Suppose 

37  Sign  ot 
2odiac 

38  Lead 

42  Paid  notice 
45  Festive 


46  Trade 

47  Watch 
pockel 

48  Anger 

49  Seine 

50  Stir 

52  Time  gone  by 

53  Corded  clolh 
55  French  article 


' 

2 

3 

1 

5 

6 

' 

8 

1 

9 

10 

" 

u 

13 

14 

I" 

!■'" 

1 

I 

?0 

^^^ 

ii 

i 

I 

25 

26 

27 

a 

!r 

i 

So 

5i 

i 

I 

36 

it 

38 

I 

39 

I 

*' 

I 

43 

i 

.^ 

46 

49 

_■ 

?r 

1 

51 

52 

53 

54 

1 

55 

56 

59 

Civil  engineering  technicians 
announce  raffle  winners 

The  Civil  Engineering  Technicians  Club  has 
announced  the  winners  of  its  Feb.  23  raffle,  ac- 
cording to  Lamont  E.  Butters,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  civil  engineering  technology  and  club 
adviser. 

The  drawing  took  place  March  23  in  the 
lobby  of  the  Learning  Resources  Center  (LRC). 
The  names  were  drawn  by  Mrs.  Dorothy  Slat- 
tery,  receptionist. 

The  winners  of  the  drawing  were:  First 
prize,  $100,  John  Zeafla,  1410  St.  James  Place, 
Williamsport;  second  prize,  $50,  Thomas 
Dwyer,  100  Lynd  St.,  Biossburg,  and  third 
prize,  $25,  Wally  Sanders,  1412  State  St., 
Shamokin. 

The  money  raised  from  the  raffle  will  be  us- 
ed by  the  students  for  a  field  trip  on  April  10,  to 
the  Smithsonian  Institute  in  Washington,  D.C., 
said  Butters. 


PBL  members  set 
installation  banquet 
Wednesday  evening 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  members  will  hold 
an  installation  banquet  for  newly-elected  officers 
at  6  p.m.,  Wednesday,  at  the  Sheraton  Motor 
Inn,  Williamsport. 

According  to  David  A.  Haas,  PBL  presi- 
dent and  computer  science  student  from 
Williamsport,  scheduled  events  for  the  banquet 
are  a  social  hour  from  6  p.m.  to  7  p.m.,  a  dinner 
from  7  p.m.  to  8  p.m.,  and  an  installation 
ceremony  from  8  p.m.  to  8:30  p.m. 

Thomas  C.  Leitzel,  assistant  director  of  the 
Business  and  Computer  Science  Division,  will  be 
guest  speaker  at  the  banquet. 

"Dancing  and  swimming  will  be  part  of  the 
evening's  activities,"  said  Paul  W.  Goldfeder, 
assistant  professor  of  business  administration. 


16     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9,  1984 


'Driving  under  the  influence'  laws 
based  on  blood  alcohol  content 


li^omalion  provided  by  Mn.  Jonel  R.  Quenmil.  R.S.,  qfthtHeallh 
Senicfi  Centtr- 

All  30  states  have  laws  with  various 
penalties  against  driving  under  the  influence  of 
alcohol.  Most  states  base  these  laws  on  a  per- 
son's blood  alcohol  content  (BAC),  as  determin- 
ed by  a  breath  test,  or  on  a  direct  analysis  of 
blood. 

For  the  BAC  lest  .10  percent  is  evidence  of 
being  legally  intoxicated. 

A  12-ounce  serving  of  beer  containing  four 
percent  of  alcohol  will  register  .02  on  the  breath 
test.  For  harder  substances  (whiskey  or  vodka), 
a   one-ounce   serving   containing   43    percent 


alcohol  will  register  .02. 

These  figures  are  calculated  for  a  person 
weighing  160  pounds.  For  persons  weighing  less, 
the  BAC  would  be  proportionately  higher.  For 
persons  weighing  more,  it  would  be  propor- 
tionately lower. 

A  person's  BAC  drops  about  .02  percent 
per  hour  if  no  more  drinks  are  consumed.  Ef- 
fects wear  off  at  a  fairly  constant  rate. 

If  a  160  pound  person  drinks  five  beers,  or 
five  shots  of  whiskey,  in  one  hour  on  an  empty 
stomach,  his  BAC  would  equal  .10  percent.  It 
would  take  three  more  hours  to  reach  the  less- 
than-.05-percent  level  or  a  non-dangerous  level. 


At  Danville  Famt... 


Students  use  'brains' 
to  help  researchers 
strengthen  knowledge 

Students  at  (he  Danville  Farm  have  recently 
been  involved  in  a  real  "brainy"  project. 

According  to  Robert  A.  Patton,  instructor 
of  dairy  herd  management  at  the  farm,  students 
recently  participated  in  a  project  partly  involving 
the  forwarding  of  cow  brains  to  The  Eunice  Ken- 
nedy Shriver  Center  at  Massachusetts  General 
Hospital. 

Palton  said  students  forwarded  seven  fetal 
brains  obtained  from  Taylor  Packing  in  Wyalus- 
ing.  The  organs,  he  said,  are  intended  to  aid 
researchers  at  the  center  gain  a  deeper 
understanding  of  senility  and  mental  illness  in 
humans. 

The  brains,  he  explained,  were  wrapped  in 
garbage  bags,  packed  in  ice,  and  sent  to  the 
center  in  ice  chests  and  garbage  cans  by  Federal 
Express. 

Individuals  at  the  center  were  "delighted" 
al  receiving  the  organs,  remarked  Patton.  They 
were  "overjoyed"  he  said,  adding  that  more 
brains  will  be  forwarded. 

The  ongoing  program  is  in  cooperation  with 
Harvard  Medical  School,  Patton  said. 


Women's  Forum  meets  today 

Women's  Week/Women's  Forum  will  meet 
at  noon  today,  in  Room  103,  Academic  Center 
(ACC),  according  to  Mrs.  Virginia  M.  Tom- 
pkins, of  the  College  Information  Office. 

Next  week,  a  lunchtime  series  will  be  con- 
tinued by  the  Women's  Week  organizers  due  to 
the  closing  of  the  College  on  Thursday,  March 
29. 

"Math/Science  Phobia",  the  subject  of  the 
series,  will  begin  at  noon  next  Wednesday,  April 
18,  Room  105,  Academic  Center  (ACC). 

Beverage  will  be  provided,  and  interested 
persons  may  bring  a  brown  bag  lunch,  said  Mrs. 
Tompkins. 

Bluegrass  Festival 
this  Thursday  in  gym 

The  Seventh  Annual  Bluegrass  Festival  will 
be  held  at  7:30  p.m.,  this  Thursday  in  the  Bardo 
Gymnasium,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremioiti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 

Featured  groups  will  include  Leon  Morris 
and  Associates,  The  Tompkin  County 
Horseflies,  The  Bluegrass  Express,  and  The  Step 
Cadets  (previously  called  the  Lumberjacks). 

Students  with  validated  student  ID's,  facul- 
ty, and  staff  will  be  able  to  attend  for  free. 
There  will  be  a  $2  admission  fee  for  all  others, 
said  Mrs.  Fremiotti. 


Monday.  April  9,  1984     «     SPOTLIGHT 


Thursday  holiday  still  on'; 
some  classes  have  to  be  made  up, 
but  there's  special  way  to  do  it 

Next  Thursday,  April  19,  will  remain  an  official  College  holiday,  according  lo  a  deadline 
report  by  Dr.  Rnssell  C.  Maoch,  dean  of  academic  affairs. 

Some  classes,  however,  will  have  (o  be  "made  up". 

Dr.  Mauch  explained: 

Scheduled  classes  which  were  missed  on  Thursday,  March  29  -  the  date  of  the  worst 
winter  storm  in  this  area  in  a  decade  -  will  have  to  be  made  up.  This  is  because  the  College 
must  conform  to  state  requirements  as  to  number  of  hours  of  meeting  time  per  course. 

The  special  way  in  which  these  classes  are  lo  be  made  up:  Instructors  will  add  time  to 
each  of  the  sessions  of  the  course  which  remain  --  building  up  additional  time  to  equal  the 
amount  of  time  missed  on  that  stormy  Thursday  night. 

As  far  as  the  classes  which  were  cancelled  earlier  on  a  Tuesday  night  because  of  a  dif- 
ferent storm  are  concerned,  the  dean  said  a  check  of  the  academic  calendar  and  number  of 
hoars  required  does  not  make  it  necessary  to  make  up  the  Tuesday  night  classes. 

He  said  the  decision  about  the  holiday  and  the  make-up  was  made  after  careful  review 
of  the  academic  calendar  and  legal  requirements. 

In  short:  Students  who  missed  day  classes  on  March  29,  no  make-up;  students  who 
missed  evening  classes  on  March  29,  make-up  by  adding  time,  and  students  who  missed 
because  of  the  earlier  Tuesday  evening  storm,  no  make-up. 


Cafeteria-naming  contest  deadline  is  this  Wednesday 

The  deadline  is  i  p.m.  this  Wednesday  to  enter  the  contest  to  name  the  cafeteria  in  the 
new  Lifelong  Education  Center. 

The  contest  is  being  conducted  by  the  Student  Government  Association. 

Entry  forms  are  available  at  various  campus  locations  as  well  as  in  this  edition  of  The 
SPOTLIGHT.  Entries  may  be  dropped  off  at  various  spots. 

Entry  form  boxes  are  in  the  Intramural  Athletics  and  College  Activities  OfTice  in  the  Gym- 
nasium, in  Room  204  of  the  Administration  Building,  and  in  the  Student  Government  Associa- 
tion Office  which  is  Room  136  in  the  Academic  Center. 


WWAS         if 


TURN  US  ON 

88FNK 


Humpty 
Dumpty 

Sub  &  Pizza 
shops 

Show  valid  student  ID  ^ 


and  gel  10%  OFF  all  food  orders 

(Cdiid  one  per  pel  sun) 


Sniiilnicle  open  7  days 

I  Ceniiiil  &  Miirkei 


Creek  Side 
(reek  Ril. 
\.^L-L — _« 322-0922 


18     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  9,  1984 


'The  Devil  Went  Down  to  Georgia  Looking  for  A  Soul  to  Steal' 
...BUT... 

...Leon  Morris  and  the  Associates  are  comin'  to  the  College  this  Thursday  nightjar  a 
foot-stompin',  loe-tappin'  Bluegrass  Festival  in  the  Bardo  Gym.  Show  begins  at  7:36.  Ad- 
mission is  free  with  validated  student  ID.  $2  for  all  others. 


~~nflnnnam 


•  n»mumt^mtmmmmm»»mmm»mmm»mmmmm^t»mti0mm 


Monday,  April  9,  1984 


Landlord  of  the  Year 
selection 

All  Students  May  Nominate.  A  Landlord! 

■  Does  your  landlord  act  quickly  on  constructive  criticism  concer- 
ning his/her  property? 

■  Does  your  landlord  return  a  fair  percentage  of  your  security 
deposit? 

■  Does    your    landlord    l(eep    the    property    In    a    habitable 
condition? 

■     Does  your  landlord  respect  your  right  of  privacy? 

■  Does  your  landlord  have  a  genuine  concern  for  the  students? 

■  Has  your  landlord  ever  done  anything  you  considered  above 
and  beyond  the  call  of  duty? 

If  SO,  You  May  Want  to  Nominate  This  Person  for... 

<  Landlord  Of  The  Year  § 

O  H 

2  UFHI  in  the  spaces  below,  clip  out  ttiis  announcement  tj: 
cc       and  turn  it  in  at  one  of  the  locations  listed'                                                    ' 

3  "n 

ti  DEADLINE  IS  MONDAY,  APRIL  23,  at  NOON  S 

EC  2 

i  ^ 

<       Student  Name: q 


Landlord  Name:. 


A  ttach  additional  sheet  if  necessary 

Nomination  coupons  [CLIP  THIS  ENTIRE  PAGE]  may  be  dropped  off  at  Admissions  Of- 
fice In  Academic  Center...  at  Room  136,  Academic  Center...  at  the  Library...  at  Earth 
Science  Center...  and  at  Aviation  Center. 

Co-sonsored  by  the  Student  Government  Association 


P  Reasons  for  Nomination: P 

u. g 

22 2 

X 


o 

Q-  O 

Ij > 


Monday,  April  9,  1984 


Dr.  Breuder  presents  1984-85 
College  budget  proposal 

By  Thomis  H.  Long,  Administrative  Affairs  Editor 

To  present  the  recommendation  for  the  1984-85  College  budget.  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder, 
College  president,  held  a  press  conference  last  Thursday  morning.  He  announced  that  the 
budget  he  is  recommending  will  total  $16.7  million.  This  represents  a  7.9  percent  increase  over 
last  year's  budget. 

Regarding  the  proposed  budget.  Dr.  Breuder  said,  "This  plan  represents  the  lowest  in- 
crease in  three  years  and  reflects  extreme  care  in  targeting  of  resources  with  exceptional  sen- 
sitivity to  sponsor  costs  without  sacrifice  of  excellence  or  opportunity." 

The  new  tuition  policy  was  also  discussed  at  the  meeting.  Dr.  Breuder  state  that  the  new 
policy  will  result  in  a  better  lower  tuition,  based  on  those  who  carry  approximately  15  credits  a 
semester. 

Dr.  Breuder  stated  that  due  to  House  Bill  177,  passed  last  Fall,  an  immediate  cost  reduc- 
tion of  $295,000  to  sponsoring  districts  and  a  proposed  1984-85  student  cost,  which  is  5.1  per- 
cent less  than  approved  in  1983-84,  will  result.  The  balance  is  to  be  paid  by  the  Com- 
monwealth of  Pennsylvania. 

A  total  operating  budget  for  the  College  falls  into  three  main  categories.  They  are 
salaries,  benefits,  and  supplies. 

Actual  budgetary  figures  include  $8,818,819  for  all  salaries  at  the  College.  This  represents 
a  $664,052  hike  over  last  year's  salary  budget,  or  5.155  percent  increase. 
Employee  benefits  show  a  $186,373  increase,  bringing  the  1984-85  proposal  to  $2,228,805. 
This  shows  a  1.5  percent  increase. 

The  budget  proposal  allows  $122,152  for  supplies  for  1984-85.  The  increase  is  $8,188 
over  last  year,  or  a  .064  increase. 

The  budget  for  other  expenses,  as  outlined  in  the  proposal,  shows  a  hike  if  $235,091,  thus, 
bringing  the  total  to  $2,011,637. 

The  North  Campus  in  Wellsboro  has  a  proposed  operating  budget  of  $261,166  for  the 
1984-85  school  year. 

The  final  proposed  operating  budget  for  the  College  is  $14,043,518.  The  budget  was  to 
have  been  presented  to  the  College  Board  of  Trustees  at  their  meeting  last  Thursday  evening. 

"1  think  in  the  next  two  months,  you  will  want  to  watch  this  College  because  some  ex- 
citing things  are  going  to  happen,"  Dr.  Breuder  said,  pointing  to  campus  changes  -  including 
some  which  will  be  made  possible  by  passage  of  the  budget. 

College's  tuition  policy  is  slated 
for  update  to  per-credit  basis 

A  change  in  tuition  policy  at  the  College  has  been  announced.  The  new  system,  involving 
paying  tuition  on  a  per-credit  basis,  will  replace  the  present  system  of  fiat-rate. 

The  installation  of  the  new  tuition  system  would  eliminate  any  unfairness  regarding  pay- 
ment by  the  student,  according  to  College  officials. 

Now,  a  student  carrying  12  credits  pays  the  same  amount  as  a  student  carrying  18  credits. 
The  new  tuition  scale  would  cause  the  student  with  more  credits  to  [Jay  more  than  the  student 
with  fewer  credits,  according  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president. 

Charges  involved  in  the  new  system  are:  sponsor  district  student,  $37.75  per  credit;  stu- 
dent sponsored  by  another  Pennsylvania  community  college,  $46.60  per  credit;  non-sponsored 
student,  $85.65  per  credit;  and  out-of-state  student,  $126  per  credit. 


Monday,  April  9,  1984     »     SPOTLIGHT     •     21 


ONE  WAY  of  "gelling  into  films"?  Robert  F.  Palernoslro,  computer  science  student  from 
Williamsport,  encountered  "technical  difficulty"  during  an  English  class  when  the  projector 
apparently  went  haywire.  Needless  to  say,  it  was  a  "reel"  catastrophe.  /SPOTLIGHT photo 
by  Richard  E.  Koppj 


22     •     SPOTLIGHT    •     Monday.  April  9,  1984 


Computer  Science  Club 
sweatshirt  payments 
can  be  made  now 

Students  who  signed  up  for  Computer 
Science  Club  sweatshirts  may  contact  David  A. 
Lett,  instructor  of  computer  science,  at  College 
Ext.  228  or  in  Room  305,  Academic  Center 
(ACC),  about  making  payments. 

According  to  B.  Drew  Robison,  club  public 
relations  ofUcer  and  computer  science  student 
from  Duncansville,  the  sweatshirts  will  be 
distributed  from  Monday,  April  23  to  Monday, 
April  30. 

"Persons  who  ordered  the  shirts  should  at- 
tend the  Computer  Science  Club  meeting  at  3:30 
p.m.  tomorrow  in  Room  321,  ACC.  It  is  sug- 
gested that  those  who  ordered  begin  paying  right 
away,"  said  Robison. 


Bookstore  plans 
'book-buy'  this  month 
for  used  textbooks 

The  Bookstore  will  be  offering  a  book-buy 
for  used  textbooks,  according  to  Mrs.  Eleonore 
R.  Holcomb,  Bookstore  supervisor.  Students 
may  bring  in  textbooks  that  they  wish  to  sell  on 
Thursday  and  Friday,  April  26  and  27,  from  9 
a.m.  to  12  p.m.,  and  from  2  to  4  p.m. 

On  Monday,  April  30,  the  last  day  of 
classes,  the  Bookstore  will  be  buying  back  books 
from  9  a.m.  until  12  p.m. 

From  Monday,  April  23,  until  Monday, 
April  30,  the  Bookstore  will  be  having  a  20  per- 
cent sale  on  all  items  except  textbooks  and  goods 
already  on  sale,  said  Mrs.  Holcomb. 


Get  the  high-tech  career 
you  want  when  you  want  it. 


The  Navy's  Delayed  Entry  Program  can 
guarantee  you  the  training  you  want,  when  you 
wani  it.  Qualify  and  you  choose  the  training  you 
wani  from  over  60  career  areas.  Then  you  may 
have  up  to  one  full  year  before  you  report.  That 
gives  you  lime  to  do  what  you  want  to  do  -  finish 
school,  travel,  or  just  relax.  When  you  begin  the 
Navy  adventure,  you  begin  with  training  in 
sophisticated  fields  like  computers,  electronics, 
nuclear  power  or  communications.  Then  you  gel 
important  on-the-job  experience  that  lets  you 
become  a  master  at  the  career  you  chose  while 
you  travel  to  places  like  Greece,  Spain  and  Hong 
Kong.  To  find  out  more  about  the  advantages  of 
the  Navy's  Delayed  Entry  Program,  see  your 
guidance  counselor  or  call  your  local  Navy 
represenlalive.    1-800-692-7823 


You  can  learn  tomorrow's 
technologies  in  today's  Navy. 


rrs  NOTJUSTAJOB^ , 
ITS  AN  ALA/ENWRE 


Board 
Bulletin 


Monday.  April  9,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 
For  week  of  Monday.  April  9,  through  Sunday,  April  15 
MEETINGS 
Computer  Science  Club...  3:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Room  321,  Academic  Center. 
Phi  Beta  Lambda...  4  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  329,  Academic  Center. 

Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  to  10  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Room  6,  Academic  Center. 
Gamma  Epsilon  Tau...  4  to  5  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  204,  Administration  BuilJing. 

MOVIE 
Billy  Jack...  7:30  p.m.,  tonight,  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  $1  to  all  College  students 
with  validated  student  ID,  senior  citizens  and  children  under  12.   All  others,  $2, 
ACTIVITIES 
Bluegrass  Festival...  7:30  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Bardo  Gym.  All  students  with  validated 
student  ID,  no  charge.    Admission  for  all  others,  $2. 

A  dream...  The  Olmypics...  and  a  need 

"Everybody's  gel  a  dream..." 

Simply,  Scott  S.  Zimmerman  says  it. 

It's  his  reason  for  setting  out  on  a  pavement-pounding  effort  to  get  backing  to  take  part  in 
an  Olympics-related  event. 

Zimmerman  wants  to  run  one  of  the  mile  segments  in  the  Olympics  pass-the-torch,  cross- 
country run  this  spring. 

"I've  always  wanted  to  go  to  the  Olympics,"  says  Zimmerman,  adding  that,  in  a  small 
way,  the  special  event  is  a  way  to  do  that. 

The  special  event  being  staged  by  the  Olympics  Committee  involves  setting  up  4,000  run- 
ners from  across  the  nation  to  run  in  one-mile  segments  carrying  the  symbolic  torch  from  New 
England  to  Los  Angeles,  the  scene  of  the  Summer  Olympics. 

As  part  of  the  promotional  effort,  the  Committee  asks  each  would-be  participant  to  chip 
in  sponsorship  donations  of  $3,000  ~  in  keeping  with  this  year's  Olympics  Committee  effort  to 
pay  expenses  with  private  funding  and  not  secure  government  funds. 

Zimmerman,  a  broadcasting  student  at  the  College,  is  working  on  getting  that  sponsor- 
ship. A  resident  of  Milton,  Zimmerman  has  found  that  groups  at  the  high  school  he  attended 
(Milton  Area  High  School)  are  supportive:  Various  clubs  and  individuals  have  made  dona- 
tions. Obviously  -  and  he  admits  it  ~  he's  looking  for  more. 

If  Zimmerman  gets  the  needed  sponsorship  by  the  end  of  the  month,  he  says  he  probably 
will  run  a  segment  in  the  northwestern  part  of  the  slate  -  as  "slow  as  I  can"  to  keep  up  the 
schedule  but  still  savor  the  experience. 


Looking  for  a  nice,  clean, 

comfortable  room? 
Call  the  YWCA,  WDAY! 

I  'good  security 

I  *free  swimming 

I  *  free  TV  (in  lounge) 

g  'Walking  distance  to 

I  yVACC  &  downtown 

For  more  iii/oriiiailon,  CALL:  322-4637 

0/-  slop  in  lo  the  YWCA 

at  815  W.  4th  St.,  Wllliamsport 


24    •    SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  April  9.  1984 


r 


\ 


Monday  Night  Movie 

OIT  T  Y  Starring  Tom  Laughlin  J 


L  £. \  JACK 

r    ''One  of  the  most  electrifying 
entertainments  to  inhabit  any 
L   theater." 
r   -NEW  YORK  DAILY  MIRROR 


Tonigh(  •  7:30  p.m. 

ACC  AliDIIOKIIM 

$1  (Will)  ID) 
$2  (wiiMoiii  ID) 


J 


For  the  real  beer  lover. 


P 


DSOPHY 


O'eacf.ontlnieiol  SCC.3 


Williamsport,  Pa. 
41 9-421  Fifth  Ave. 
717/323-3237 


Spotlight 

Monday,  April  16,  1984    •     Vol.  19,  No.  31     •     16  Pages 
Wllllamsport  Area  Community  College    •    Wllllamsport,  Pa.  1 7701 


FIRST  recipients  of  the  Robert  Jessell  Memorial  Scholarship  are  Neil  J.  Pillot,   carpentry 
and  building  construction  technology  student  from  Grassflat  (left)  and  Dennis  A.  Nearhood, 
construction  carpentry  student  from  Winburne.   Presenting  the  awards  is  Charles  Fiantaca, 
chairman  of  the  building  construction  and  construction  carpentry  advisory  committee. 
Both  students  will  be  graduated  in  May.   IPhoto  courtesy  of  College  Information  Office! 

Two  students  honored;  receive 
Robert  Jessell  Memorial  Scholarship 


Courtesy  of  the  College  Information  Office 
Two  College  students  were  honored  last 
Wednesday,  at  the  annual  spring  meeting  of  the 
Building  Construction  Technology  and  Con- 
struction Carpentry  Advisory  Committee,  accor- 
ding to  Dr.  Ralph  A.  Home,  Construction 
Technology  Division  director. 

The  two  students  were  the  first  recipients  of 
the  Robert  Jessell  Memorial  Scholarship. 

Dennis  A.  Nearhood,  of  RD  2,  Box  3,  Win- 
burne, a  construction  carpentry  student,  with  a 
4.0  cumulative  grade  average,  and  Neil  J.  Pillot, 
PO  Box  212,  Grassflat,  a  carpentry  and  building 
construction  technology  student  with  a  3.8 
cumulative  grade  average,  each  received  $250. 


Presenting  the  awards  was  Charles  Fian- 
taca, chairman  of  the  Building  Construction  and 
Construction  Carpentry  Advisory  Committee. 

The  $500  for  the  scholarships  was  made 
available  by  the  West  Branch  Susquehanna 
Home  Builders  Association  of  Williamsport. 

Home  said  two  awards  will  be  given  every 
year  in  the  amount  of  $250  each  to  a  student  in 
construction  carpentry  and  a  student  in  carpen- 
try and  building  construction  technology. 

The  awards  take  into  consideration  the 
students'  cumulative  grade  average,  personal  at- 
titude, and  potential  for  success  after  gradua- 
tion. 

Both  students  will  be  graduated  in  May. 


2     .     SPOTLIGHT    •     (Monday.  April  16,  1984 

Associate  professor 
offered  membership 

Mrs.  Vivian  P.  Moon,  associate  professor 
of  food  service,  has  been  invited  to  be  a  member 
of  the  delegation  of  dietitians  selected  by  the 
Citizen  Ambassador  Program  of  People  to  Peo- 
ple. 

The  purpose  of  the  People  to  People  pro- 
gram is  one  of  "creating  goodwill  and 
understanding  between  Americans  and  the 
citizens  of  other  countries,"  said  Ms.  Donna  R. 
Watson,  associate  professor  and  director  of  ad- 
minsitrative  dietetic  internship. 

The  dietetic  delegation  will  study  the  nutri- 
tional status,  dietary  patterns,  food  products  and 
nutritional  care  and  delivery  systems  of  Australia 
and  New  Zealand,  according  to  Ms.  Watson, 

Mrs.  Moon  said  she  has  regretfully  turned 
down  the  appointment  but  said  she  would  like  to 
go  another  year  and  hopes  she  is  asked  again. 

Secondary  division 
to  undergo  audit 

The  Secondary  Division  of  the  College  will 
undergo  a  compliance  audit  from  today  through 
this  Thursday,  April  19. 

According  to  Michael  J.  Stanzione,  secon- 
dary vocational  program  coordinator  at  the  Col- 
lege, a  team  of  auditors  from  the  Pennsylvania 
Department  of  Education  will  be  checking  for 
compliance  with  state  regulations  in  the  voca- 
tional education  program. 

The  team,  co-chaired  by  Kenneth  Adams 
and  Ms.  Glendean  Davis,  will  look  for  com- 
pliance in  areas  such  as  discrimination  (racial  or 
sexual),  facilities  for  the  handicapped,  and  the 
upholding  of  safety  standards,  said  Stanzione. 

This  review  is  done  on  a  five-year  rotating 
basis.  A  report  is  expected  in  30  days,  he  said. 

Grades/transcripts 

will  be  held 
if  tickets  not  paid 

Grades  and/or  transcripts  will  not  be  sent 
out  to  those  students  with  parking  tickets  not  set- 
tled by  next  Friday,  April  27,  in  the  Security  Of- 
fice, according  to  Lawrence  P.  Smeak,  super- 
visor of  security. 


Personnel  changes 
are  approved 
by  trustees 

Personnel  changes  were  voted  upon  at  the 
April  meeting  of  the  College  Board  of  Trustees, 
on  Thursday,  April  5. 

Four  resignations  were  approved  by  the 
board.   Those  resigning  include: 

Frank  P.  Leach,  assistant  professor  of  air 
conditioning  and  refrigeration,  effective  Aug.l9. 
Leach  has  been  .aiployed  by  the  College  since 
August  1977. 

Nancy  K.  Lockridge,  regular  part-time 
receptionist/clerk  typist,  warehouse,  effective 
March  29. 

Robert  A.  Patton,  instructor  of  dairy  herd 
management  at  the  Earth  Science  Campus,  effec- 
tive at  the  end  of  the  1983-84  school  year. 

Craig  V.  Shaffer,  night  custodian,  general 
services,  effective  March  16. 

Professional  employment  changes  were  also 
approved  by  the  board. 

Kathy  Dumanis  will  continue  as  temporary 
full-time  replacement  instructor  of  economics, 
Integrated  Studies  Division  through  May  12,  at 
an  annual  172-day  salary  of  $19,530,  to  be  pro- 
rated. Ms.  Dumanis  replaces  Harvey  H.  Kuhns, 
who  is  on  a  leave  of  absence  without  pay. 

Nancy  C.  Elias  was  granted  a  disability 
leave  of  absence  without  pay,  effective  Dec.  20, 
1983  through  June  30,  1984. 

Harvey  H.  Kuhns,  associate  professor  of 
economics,  was  granted  an  extension  on  a  leave 
of  absence  without  pay  through  June  30,  or  the 
effective  date  of  his  retirement. 

Mrs.  Davie  Jane  Nestarick  will  continue  as 
coordinator  of  the  dental  hygiene  program,  ef- 
fective July  1,  1984,  at  an  annual  205-day  salary 
of  $22,899,  plus  a  to-be-determined  increment. 
Mrs.  Nestarick  has  been  employed  as  acting 
coordinator  since  Aug.  1,  1983. 

Lenore  G.  Penfield,  was  granted  a  disability 
leave  of  absence  without  pay,  effective  tentatively 
March  21  through  April  27.  She  will  resume 
duties  as  regular  instructor  of  dental  hygiene,  ef- 
fective Aug.  20,  at  an  annual  salary  of  $17,429, 
plus  a  to-be-determined  increment.  Mrs.  Pen- 
field  replaces  Mrs.  Nestarick,  who  transferred  to 
the  coordinator's  position. 


Monday.  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     3 


Two  educational  representatives 

from  Taiwan,  Republic  of  China 

visit  College;  give  views 


By  Robert  0.  Hawk 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Two  educational  representatives  from  the 
Republic  of  China  -  I.  Fan  Chang,  Ph.  D., 
director  of  Technical  and  Vocational  Education 
in  the  Ministry  of  Education  for  Taiwan,  and 
Clifford  S.  N.  Yoh,  president  of  National  Tai 
Chang  Institute  of  Commerce,  Republic  of  China 
--  visited  the  College  in  late  March. 

They  took  part  in  a  question  and  answer 
session  with  The  SPOTLIGHT.  The  interview 
was  held  in  the  president's  conference  room. 

In  opening  comments,  Yoh  mentioned  his 
warm  regard  for  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College 
president,  and  mentioned  that  they  had  been 
close  personal  friends  for  seven  years. 
A  good  community  college 

Expressing  his  reaction  to  the  College, 
Chang  said,  "We  have  seen  a  good  community 
college  which  serves  the  community  well." 

Giving  some  background  about  the  educa- 
tional system  of  Taiwan,  Dr.  Chang  explained 
that  their  system  begins  with  nine  years  of  com- 
pulsory instruction  and,  for  the  remaining  three 
years  of  high  school,  a  vocational  or  academic 
course  of  study. 

"After  this,"  he  continued,  "students  have 
the  option  of  going  on  to  receive  a  three-year 
associate  degree  or  a  four-year  degree  which  can 
be  followed  by  a  doctorate  program  if  desired." 

Agricultural,  technical  and  academic 

There  are  77  junior  colleges  in  the  Republic 
of  China  -  "none  of  which  we  particularly  want 
to  change,"  said  Chang.  "We  have  agricultural 
colleges,  technical  colleges  and  academic  col- 
leges. Our  island  is  not  very  big  and  we  have 
enough  colleges  which  make  up  divisions  of  one 
big  community  college." 

Chang  commented,  "We  do  lack  your  col- 
lege's open  access/open  entry  policies." 

There  are  300,000  graduates  from  the  ninth 
grade  every  year  in  the  republic.  Fifty  percent 
continue  with  vocational  education  and  50  per- 


cent continue  with  academic  education. 

The  island  of  Taiwan,  which  has  a  national 
population  of  18,000,000  people,  has  a  two  per- 
cent unemployment  rate. 

80  percent  remain  in  U.S. 

Five  thousand  university  graduates  come  to 
the  United  States  for  advanced  educational  train- 
ing every  year;  20  percent  of  them  return  to 
Taiwan  leaving  the  remaining  80  percent  conti- 
nuing to  reside  in  the  United  Stales. 

There  is  no  mandatory  requirement  for 
students  obtaining  further  education  here  to 
return  to  the  Republic  of  China  for  some  set  time 
of  service. 

However,  if  students  do  wish  to  return, 
there  is  a  national  committee  which  will  provide 
them  with  a  plane  ticket  and  job  placement 
assistance  upon  their  arrival  back  home. 

Chang  added,  "In  technical  fields,  at  least 
half  of  the  instructors  are  trained  in  the  United 
States."  Dr.  Chang  was  educated  at  Cornell 
University. 

...no  'sweet  talks' 

In  a  comment  concerning  overtures  made 
by  their  much  larger  neighbor,  the  People's 
Republic  of  China,  earlier  this  year,  Chang  and 
Yoh  were  in  intense  agreement  that  "there  is  no 
way  we,  as  a  people,  can  return  to  the  People's 
Republic  of  China.  From  past  experience  with 
Communists,  we  do  not  believe  their  sweet 
talks." 

Yoh  continued,  "Tibet  is  an  example. 
They    asked    Tibet     to     voluntarily    annex 
themselves  with  promises  that  there  would  be 
nothing  done  to  lessen  religious  freedom  or 
freedom  of  speech. 

Tibet  agreed  and,  as  soon  as  this  was  ac- 
complished, things  changed  very  quickly  for  the 
worse.  "No,  to  the  contrary,  we  invite  Ihem  to 
return  to  our  system  of  government." 

Both  men  ended  their  comments  with  praise 
for  the  efforts  being  made  at  the  College  and 
thanked  both  students  and  faculty  for  the 
hospitality  they  received  during  their  visit. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  April  16,  1984 

Business  Symposium: 
a  job  well  done 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

Students,  faculty,  staff  and  adminislrators  who  took  part  in  the  fOtfi  Annual  Business 
Symposium  are  to  be  commended  for  ano^er  job  "well  done" 

The  attitudes  high  school  students  take  home  are  directly  related  to  the  altitudes  and  ex- 
periences they  encounter  while  at  the  College. 

The  positive  and  friendly  atmosphere  presented  by  College  students  and  personnel  was 
reflected  in  the  enthusiasm  demonstrated  by  the  high  school  students  who  participated  in  the 

Symposium,  ,  ,.     ,       ^  ■ 

The  high  standards  of  achievement  and  dedication  toward  a  common  goal  displayed  in 

the  preparation  and  execution  of  the  Symposium  was  a  credit  to  the  College. 

Not  only  did  it  encourage  proficiency  and  a  desire  to  excel  in  the  Future  Business 

Leaders  of  America,  it  also  did  much  to  promote  the  progressive  image  of  the  College  and 

the  excellence  of  its  community. 

They  say  'thanks 

To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

The  fashion  merchandising  and  display  class  wish,  at  this  time,  to  extend  our  heartlell 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  all  the  faculty,  staff,  stores,  models,  and  student  body  for  all  the 
cooperation  that  made  both  of  our  fashion  shows  -  "Swinging  into  Spring"  and  "Fashion  Piz- 
zaz"  -  the  huge  success  they  were. 

We  want  to  express  a  special  "thank  you"  to  Robert  Lyons,  our  instructor,  for  all  his 
valuable  assistance  and  patience  this  semester.  He  made  both  the  shows  and  the  work  on 
the  display  windows  a  rewarding  learning  experience  for  us  all, 

-The  Fashion  Merchandising  and  Display  Class  of  1984:  Beth  Aumilier,  Sharon  Barto, 
Denise  Fesemyer,  Cathy  Keifer,  Billie  Richmond,  Duane  Steininger,  Phoebe  Thompson, 
Gary  Wilt  2rd,  Crystal  Barker,  Lisa  Diminick,  Cariene  Gaither,  Laurie  Kephart,  Jodie 
Steele,  Ellen  Avery,  Michael  Losiewicz,  and  KImberly  Wollet. 


SPOTLIGHT 
Monday.  Aprin  6.  1984    ■    Vol.  19,  No.  31 

The  SPOTLIGHT  IS  published  each  Monday  morning  of  the  academic  year,  except  for 
College  vacations,  by  lournahsm  and  other  interested  students  of  The  Williamsport  Area 
Community  College 

Office     Room  7,  Academic  Center,  1005  W   Third  St  .  Williamsport,  Pa,  17701 
Telephone   (717)  326-3761,  Extension  221 


THE  STAFF:  Joan  L  Thompson,  managing  editor.  Perry  b  Pentz,  editorial  page  editor. 
Thomas  F  Montgomery,  production  supervisor,  Annette  M  Engel,  composition  manager; 
MaryL  Pease,  photography  edilor,  Kay  M  Frace,  student  affairs  editor;  Thomas  H  Long, 
administrative  affairs  editor,  Lori  M  Lane,  sports  editor,  Barbi  L  Chilson,  photomechanical 
technician,  Gisela  D  Gfassley,  advertising  manager,  Gregory  W  Huff,  senior  staff  virnter 
REPORTERS/STAFF  ASSOCIATES:  Donna  M  Barnett,  Kathleen  R  Foreman.  Kathryn  M 
Gilbert,  Robert  O  Hawk,  Rodney  D  Hill,  Richard  E  Kopp  Jr  ,  Kathy  A  Meixel,  Anne  T 
Moratelll,  James  K  Morrissey,  tvlaik  S  Schwanke,  Sandra  R.  Taylor 
FACULTY  ADVISER:  Anthony  N  Cillo,  associate  professor  of  journalism 
PRODUCTION  TEAM  THIS  ISSUE:  Kathryn  M,  Gilbert,  Rodney  D   Hill,  Perry  D   Pentz 


Monday,  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 

Ronstadt's  What's  New? 
is  treat  to  tired  ears 

Music  review  by  Robert  O.  Hawk 

Linda  Ronstadt's  newest  album.  What's  New?  is  a  blend  ol  standard  big-band  ballads 
and  the  inimilable  style  of  an  artist  who  has,  without  question,  evolved  into  a  truly  superior 
songstress  and  stylist. 

From  her  days  as  the  lead  vocalist  for  her  band.  The  Stone  Ponies  (circa  1968-1973), 
Ronstadt  has  given  power-packed  performances  ranging  from  rock-and-roll  to  country 
music. 

Since  finding  her  niche,  so  to  speak,  as  a  solo  artist  with  album  producer  Peter  Asher 
(formerly  of  Peter  &  Gordon),  she  has  developed  a  vocal  style  which  has  become  a 
trademark  all  her  own. 

This  style  has  been  put  nicely  together  in  her  newest  album  in  which  she  teams  up  with 
The  Nelson  Riddle  Orchestra. 

Riddle  is  a  master  of  the  theme  song  and  romantic  ballad.  His  work  with  Ronstadt  lends 
his  expertise  to  an  accomplished  vocalist.  All  the  way  around,  the  album  is  a  compliment  to 
both. 

From  the  title  song.  What's  New?,  to  Someone  Who'll  Watch  Over  Me  -  which  are  two 
of  my  favorites  out  of  an  album  of  songs  -  it  is  hard  to  say  which  is  the  best  song  of  all. 

To  my  mind,  this  is  an  album  that  Is  a  treat  to  tired  ears  and  is  a  fresh  look  at  some  songs 
which  have  stood  the  test  of  time. 


A  Special  Thank  You 

As  the  academic  year  rapidly  nears  its  end.  The  SPOTLIGHT  thanks  ail  those 
who  have  in  a  variety  of  ways  contributed  to  our  efforts  during  the  past  months. 

Among  those,  of  course,  are  our  advertisers  who  recognized  our  special  market 
but  also  recognized  that  our  efforts  are  in  the  nature  of  a  learning  experience. 

Among  those,  too,  are  all  members  of  the  College  community,  including 
students,  faculty,  administrators,  secretaries  and  other  staff,  the  College  security 
force,  the  switchboard  personnel,  the  custodial  staff. . .  And.  our  production  "squad" 
at  The  Milton  Standard...  And.  the  Journalism  Advisory  Committee, ,  And  staffers  at 
the  various  local  and  area  newspapers  who  gave  suggestions  and  reactions...  and.. 

...And  so  many  people  --  individuals  ■■  who  offered  criticism,  reaction,  sugges- 
tions, comments. 

To  say  more  would  be  maudlin:  We  simply  say... 

THANK  YOU! 
■■The  Staff  and  The  Adviser.  The  SPOTLIGHT 


6     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  Aprill  6,  1984 

Hill  Street  Blues 

a  microcosm  of  urban 

strife  and  realism 

Television  review 

By 
Mark  S.  Schwanke 

While  Irekking  across  thai  barren 
wasteland  called  television,  I  found  an  oasis  in 
the  form  of  Hill  Street  Blues. 

This  progrann  about  life  in  an  inner  city 
police  precinct  deals  with  sensitive  topics  with 
a  gritty  realism. 

For  example,  a  policeman  enters  a  run- 
down building  after  being  called  about  a  family 
disturbance  Silhouetted  against  the  wall  is  the 
form  of  someone  holding  a  gun.  The  shadow 
moves,  so  the  cop  discharges  his  weapon.  A 
small  black  child  with  a  toy  pistol  falls,  mortally 
wounded 

The  cop  does  not  go  on  with  his  life  as 
though  nothing  had  happened.  The  child's 
mother  does  not  forgive  the  cop,  saying  that  he 
was  just  trying  to  do  a  difficult  job  There  is  ten- 
sion, hate,  anger,  and  the  examination  of  a 
policeman's  use  of  lethal  force. 

This  verity  is  carried  out  in  a  large  but 
strong  cast  of  relatively  unknown  actors.  The 
most  visible  are  precinct  Captain  Frank  Furillo 
(Daniel  J.  Travanti);  his  wife,  cool  public  defen- 
dent  Joyce  Davenport  Furillo  (Veronica  Hamel); 
scruffy  detective  Mick  Belker  (Bruce  Weitz), 

eloquent  Lieutenant  Howard  Hunter  (James  B. 
Sikking),  and  Sergeant  Lucy  Bates  (Betty 
Thomas). 

Hill  Street  Blues  is  frenetically  paced  and 
violent;  it  is  a  microcosm  of  urban  strife.  The 
turbulence  of  life  for  a  street  cop  is  dealt  with  in 
a  forceful  and  intensive  manner.  This  show  is 
on  late  in  the  evening,  but  it  will  never  lull  one  to 
sleep 


Reviewer  peers 
at  recent  singles 

Music  review 

By 

James  K.  Morrissey 

The  generally  limited  playlists  of  the  televi- 
sion music  video  shows  and  the  Top  40  for- 
mats of  the  the  local  commercial  radio  stations 
do  not  give  much  attention  to  progressive  ar- 
tists in  the  world  of  music. 

Given  a  chance  to  be  different,  local  col- 
lege radio  stations  often  end  up  with  similar  for- 
mats. How  many  times  have  you  heard  /  Want 
A  New  Drug  by  Huey  Lewis  and  the  News  or 
Hold  Me  Now  by  the  Thompson  Twins?  Ten 
million  times? 

It's  all  a  matter  of  taste  anyway,  so  this 
reviewer  will  get  off  the  pulpit  and  switch  from 
sermons  to  looking  at  some  fairly  recent 
singles. 

Head  Over  Heels  (Go-Go's)  -  Although  the 
lyrics  are  about  being  "out  of  sync"  and  "out  of 
control,"  it's  actually  a  very  controlled  effort 
from  these  bubbleheads.  The  song  is  catchy 
and  has  good  keyboards  and  bass.  This  may 
be  a  number  one  single  very  soon. 

Automatic  (Pointer  Sisters)  -  Whenever 
this    song    is    broadcast    on    the    radio,    the 
response  is  to  turn  it  off  without  thinking. 
There's    no    way    to    control    it;    it's    totally 
automatic. 

68  Guns  (The  Alarm)  -  Quite  a  few  critics 
are  raving  about  this  band  On  closer  inspec- 
tion, they're  just  a  watered-down  imitation  of 
the  early  Clash's  rebellious  punk  stance.  This 
alarm  has  gone  off  eight  years  too  late  to  ring 
much  excitement  in  these  jaded  ears. 

Run  Runaway  (Slade)  -  From  1971-1975, 
Blade  racked  up  13  Top  10  singles  in  Britain. 
Six  of  these,  including  the  original  Cum  On  Feel 
The  Noize,  went  to  number  one.  This  song, 
although  nothing  special,  might  give  Slade  their 
first  hit  in  America. 


Repayment  of  Emergency  Loans 

A  reminder  from  the  Financial  Aid  Office 
Students  are  reminded  that  outstanding  G.  Walter  Smith  loans  (up  to  $30)  and  larger  emergency  \oansmust 
be  repaid  by  the  end  of  the  semester. 

For  those  students  who  have  not  repaid  the  loan  at  that  time,  a  hold  will  be  placed  on  all  College  records  and 
no  transcript,  diploma,  or  other  information  will  be  released  until  the  financial  obligation  has  been  satisfied. 

Students  should  check  with  the  Financial  Aid  Office  if  they  are  not  sure  whether  or  not  they  have  an 
outstanding  loan. 

■■  Donald  S.  Shade,  director  of  financial  aid 


Monday,  April  16,  1984 


Whaddya'  say...  ? 


in 

1 


Eileen   M.   Stein- 
bacher.    electronics 


Williamsport;  "I  don't 
lfiinl<  it's  going  to  stop 


William  J.  Zim- 
noch,  broadcasting 
student  from 

Lebanon:  "It  won't 
force  them  to  sell  bet- 
ter cars.  They'll  just 
send  them  back  to  the 
manufacturer," 


Robert  L. 

Ramsey,  air  condition- 
ing/refrigeration stu- 
dent from  Mifflintown: 
"Yes,  it  will,  because 
car  dealers  don't  want 
to  lose  business 
because  of  lemon 
cars  they've  sold" 


George  E.  Boud- 
man  Jr.,  advertising 
art  student  from 
Millville;  "Yes, 
customers  won't  want 
to  buy  cars  if  they 
don't."  \ 


Question:  Do  you  think  the  "lemon 
law"  will  force  car  dealers  to  sell  cars  of  bet- 
ter quality?   Why? 

Note:    The  Lemon  Law  refers  to  car  dealers 

giving  new  cars  to  the  owner  of  a  car  that  Is 

one-year-old  or  has  under  10,000  miles  on 

the  car  after  it  has  been  returned  to  the 

dealer    to    fix    the    same    problem    or    is 

unavailable  to  the  owner  for  more  than  30 

days  because  it  is  in  need  of  repairs. 

Location:   Learning  Resources  Center 

Photos  by  Lori  M.  Lane 

interviews  by  Donna  IVI.  Barnett 


Lori  A.  Engel, 
business  manage- 
ment student  from 
South  Williamsport; 
"Yes,  I  think  it  will  It 
puts  dealers  on  the 
spot  a  little  more  to 
give  customers  a  bet- 
ter quality  car," 


.f  r 


Jerry  J.  Taylor, 
horticulture  student 
from  Coudersport: 
"Yes,  because  if  they 
don't  they'll  just  sell 
junk  cars." 


Scott  M,  Bitner, 
business  manage- 
ment student  from  U\\\ 
Hall;  "I  definitely  think 
that  it  will  make  car 
dealers  more  aware 
when  they  sell  cars.  I 
think  they  will  be  more 
willing  to  help  people 
get  their  cars  fixed 
and  be  more  aware  of 
the  problem  since 
there  would  be  a  law 
backing  it." 


Monday,  April  16,  1984 


Two  College  staff  members 
attend  one-day  conference 


"Community  Problem  Solving  Through  Community  Education"  was  the  topic  of  a  one- 
day  conference  at  the  Montgomery  County  Community  College  on  Friday,  April  6,  according 
to  Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of  community-based  activities. 

Ms.  Rosenberger  and  Grant  L.  Martin,  coordinator  of  specialized  technical  educational 
programs,  met  with  their  counterpails  from  other  community  colleges  at  the  conference. 

"One  hundred  fifty  people  attended.  Most  of  them  were  from  Philadelphia;  we  traveled 
the  longest  distance  to  get  there,"  said  Ms.  Rosenberger. 
Local  dislricis  involved 

Ms.  Rosenberger  attended  two  workshops  throughout  the  day.  One  was  called  "How  to 
Start  an  After-School  Care  Program  in  Your  Public  School". 

"Most  involved  were  from  the  local  school  districts,"  Ms.  Rosenberger  said.  "I'd  like  to 
start  programs  for  latch-key  children  -  the  ones  whose  parents  work  and  they  come  home  all 
alone  -  but  I  don't  think  it  will  be  feasible  to  do  on  a  college  level." 

The  second  workshop  Ms.  Rosenberger  attended  was  called  "Doing  More  with  Less".  A. 
William  Sabatino,  executive  director  of  Community  Accountants,  Norristown,  spoke  about  the 
importance  of  planning  and  organization. 

"It  basically  showed  how  to  do  a  lot  of  programs  without  spending  a  lot  of  money,"  Ms. 
Rosenberger  said. 

Martin  attended  two  workshops  called  "Community  Resources  Information  Bank"  and 
"A  Network  of  Pennsylvania's  Industry-Education  Coordination  Projects". 
Focus  on  problem-solving 

According  to  both  Martin  and  Ms.  Rosenberger,  the  lunch-time  lecture  was  very  in- 
teresting. 

Dr.  Russell  L.  Ackolf,  Silberberg  Professor  of  Systems  Sciences,  Wharton  School  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  gave  a  lecture  on  problem-solving. 

"He  gave  a  new  approach  to  problem  solving,"  said  Martin.  "Rather  than  looking  at 
each  problem  in  a  system,  you  look  at  the  system  as  a  whole." 

Ms.  Rosenberger  described  Dr.  Ackoffs  speech  as  "solving  a  problem  backwards". 

She  added,  "It's  just  like  a  car.  If  you  take  the  best  parts  of  each  car  -  say  an  engine 
from  a  Mercedes,  a  muffler  from  a  Chevy,  a  steering  wheel  from  a  Volvo  -  you  should  have 
the  ideal  parts  to  create  the  best  car.  But  when  you  try  to  put  them  together,  you're  not  go- 
ing to  have  a  very  good  car,  because  they  won't  fit  togehter." 

Martin  and  Ms.  Rosenberger  noted  that  Dr.  Ackoff  is  also  involved  in  the  technological 
world. 

According  to  Martin,  "He  (Dr.  Ackoff)  was  instrumental  in  the  development  of  the  touch- 
tone  telephone." 


ADM  BldK. 


Wolly's  Place 

Fasl-Friendly-Service 
Sub's-Cosmo's-Pizza 

Call  in  (►rders  welcome  Ph:    326-7983 

Susquehanna  Rivrr 


Monday.  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     9 


College  trustees  look 
toward  major  changes 


The  monthly  College  Board  of  Trustees 
meeting  was  held  Thursday,  April  5  in  the 
Automotive  Trades  Center. 

Mario  Caldera,  board  chairman,  and 
Thomas  C.  Large,  architect,  presented  an  update 
report  on  the  College. 

"Enough  cannot  be  said  about  the  stupen- 
dous changes  in  the  complexion  of  the  campus  -- 
to  the  College's  credit,"  commented  Caldera. 

Several  architect's  renderings  of  the  campus 
were  presented  the  board.  The  drawings  showed 
various  stages  of  advancement  during  the  next 
lO-year  period. 

Eventually,  according  to  Large,  the  plan  in- 
cludes "closing  in"  the  campus,  allowing  for  a 
"green  area"  beyond  the  Building  Trades 
Center,  toward  the  railroad  crossing. 

Eventually,  roads  will  be  added,  according 
to  the  plan,  to  conned  Park  Street  and  another 
road  to  be  added  west  of  campus.  The  plan 
shows  the  eventual  closing  in  of  the  College  cam- 
pus, complete  with  pedestrian  paths  replacing 
the  existing  Susquehanna  Street 

Electrical  system  planned 

Plans  to  be  completed  in  the  near  future  in- 
clude installation  of  a  new  electrical  system  in 
the  Academic  Center,  in  addition  to  the  comple- 
tion of  renovations  to  the  Technical  Trades 
buildings. 

In  other  business,  among  bid  approvals,  the 
purchase  of  the  new  Computer  Assisted  Drafting 
and  Design  and  Computer  Assisted  Manufactur- 
ing (CADD/CAM)  was  presented  to  the  board 
for  approval.  The  system  will  aid  existing  pro- 
grams of  the  College,  such  as  graphic  arts,  by 
allowing  students  to  design  on  a  computer 
screen. 

Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president, 
commented,  "This  new  system  will  help  launch 
the  College  into  the  future  and  make  our 
students  more  competitive  in  the  job  market." 

The  system,  provided  by  International 
Business  Machines  (IBM)  and  costing  $569,000 
was  approved.  Plans  to  have  it  operational  by 
this  Fall  have  been  made. 

The  board  also  approved  the  1984/85  Col- 
lege budget  proposal,  as  presented  by  Dr. 
Breuder.    The  new  budget  calls  for  a  total  of 


$16.7  million,  representing  a  7.9  percent  increase 
over  last  year's  budget. 

Dr.  Daniel  J.  Doyle,  professor  of  govern- 
ment and  history,  and  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean 
of  educational  research,  presented  a  report  to  the 
board  regarding  the  Middle  States  evaluation 
team.  As  part  of  the  report,  they  presented  the 
long-range  planning  report  for  the  College, 
which  was  given  to  the  accreditation  team  for 
their  consideration. 

The  announcement  was  made  that  the  next 
meeting  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  will  be  held  on 
Monday,  April  30,  rather  than  the  previously 
stated  May  7  meeting. 


Biology  Club  car 
wash  this  Saturday 

The  Biology  Club  will  sponsor  a  car 
wash  this  Saturday  to  raise  money  for  the 
club. 

It  will  be  held  at  the  Bonanza  Steak 
House  parking  lot.  The  cost  per  car  will  be 
$2.  Time  will  be  from  1  to  3  p.m.,  accor- 
ding to  Miss  Sharon  A.  Souter,  member  of 
the  Biology  Club. 


Creative  Kitchen 

Monday,  April  16 

South  Sea  Punch 

Chicken  Breast  in  Phyllo 

and  Watercress  Cream 

Spring  Vegetable  Saute 

Assorted  Dinner  Rolls 

Marinated  Vegetable  Salad 

Cream  Puffs  Jubilee 

Wednesday,  April  18 

German  Fruit  Soup 

Sauerbraten  with  Spaetzle 

Braised  Red  Cabbage 

and  Apples 

Three  Bean  Salad 

Black  Forest  Torte 

Coffee,  tea,  iced  tea,  milk  and  water  served 

with  all  meals.    Meals  cost  $3.    Soups  served 

with  homemade  rolls.    Desserts  are  a  la  carte. 


10     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  16,  1984 

Sandra  L.  Rosenberger 
to  make  two  presentations 

Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of 
communily-based  activities  will  make  two 
presentations  concerning  the  Elderhostel  pro- 
gram. 

The  first  presentation  will  be  on  Wednes- 
day, May  2,  in  the  Messiah  Senior  Citizens 
Center.  The  second  will  be  on  Saturday,  May 
19,  in  the  James  V.  Brown  Library  in  downtown 
Williamsport. 

Ms.  Rosenberger  said  she  will  show  slide 
presentations  about  Elderhostel,  including  pic- 
tures of  the  Williamsport  program  and  other 
Elderhostel  programs  within  the  stale. 

Ms.  Rosenberger  was  to  have  attended  the 
spring  directors  meetings  for  the  Elderhostel  pro- 
gram in  Altoona  last  Friday  and  Saturday,  April 
12  and  B. 


^ARM  WRESTLING 

tournament  ^ 
begins  ^  '^' 
tonight 


M 


^\ 


Sign  up  in  Room  108, 
Bardo  Gym 
$1  Registration  fee 
Sponsored  by  the 
Student  Government 
Association  (SGA) 


I  Ybu  can  learn  tomorrow's 
;  technologies  in  today's  Navy. 

■  Tomorrow's  technologies,  tomorrow's  careers 
I  are  wailing  for  you  right  now  in  the  Navy. 
Sophisticated  technical  flelcJs  like  computers, 
electronics.  communications  and 
engineering.  If  you've  got  solid  training  In  these 
areas,  you  can  have  a  solid  future.  And  there's 
no  better  place  to  get  solid  training  In  these 
technologies  than  In  today's  Navy.  If  you 
qualify,  you  can  sign  up  for  guaranteed  training 
in  the  field  of  your  choice,  and  start  after  you 
graduate.  The  skills  you'll  learn  will  last  a 
lifetime.  The  places  you  can  visit,  you'll 
remember  for  the  rest  of  your  life.  To  find  out 
more,  call  your  local  Navy  represenlallve: 


ITS  ANAo/mrufiE^r^ 


1-800-692-7823 


Monday,  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     • 

Dental  hygiene  students 

learn  in  many  ways  -  including 

working  daily  with  the  public 

Courtesy  College  litformalion  Office 

College  students  learn  in  many  ways...  in  the  classroom,  in  the  lab,  in  actual  work  set- 
tings. Dental  hygiene  students  are  no  exception--they  utilize  all  of  these  learning  methods. 

The  dental  hygiene  lab  is  located  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  Academic  Center.  What 
makes  their  program  unique  is  that  they  work  with  the  public,  everyday,  in  a  learning  environ- 
ment. 

The  Dental  Hygiene  Clinic  is  open  to  the  public  from  8  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.,  Monday 
through  Friday. 

During  these  hours,  preventive  dental  services  are  provided. 

About  50  persons  a  week  take  advantage  of  these  servics  -  especially  for  oral  prophylaxis 
(teeth  cleaning).  Other  services  provided  include  flouride  treatment,  x-rays,  patient  education, 
and  nutritional  counseling. 

Small  fee  charged 

According  to  Mrs.  Davie  Jane  Nestarick,  dental  hygiene  interim  coordinator,  a  nominal 
fee  is  charged  to  help  defray  the  cost  of  materials. 

Medical  assistant  cards  are  accepted  in  the  clinic.  Persons  who  want  to  make  an  appoint- 
ment should  call  (717)  326-3761,  Ext.  407.  Those  having  work  done  at  the  clinic  should  allow 
extra  time  as  students  are  in  a  learning  situation  and  will  take  longer  to  do  the  work  required, 
she  said. 

The  students  are  supervised  by  the  dental  hygiene  instructor  and  a  dentist  who  is  always 
present. 

Six  dentists  from  Lycoming  County  supervise  at  the  clinic  on  an  alternating  basis.  The 
dentists  examine  each  patient  and  supervise  students'  work. 

Please  turn  to  Page  20 


BENSON 


€MMn  mini,   ^ 
j^mmarket 


Cramming  all  nighi  for  an  exam 
can  give  you  Ihe  MUNCHIES! 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Mayncrd  Sts. 
Open     24     hours! 
We  never  close! 


12     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  16,  1984 


Franklin  J.  Seber  rolls  278; 
CU-JO  clinches  league  title 


One...  two...  three...  strikes,  you're  out. 

Of  course  it  is  the  baseball  season  for  many 
but  three  strikes  for  league  bowler  Franklin  J. 
Seber,  electrical  technology  student  from  Scran- 
Ion  almost  led  to  a  perfect  game. 

Going  into  the  ninth  frame,  it  seemed  as 
though  everyone  in  the  league  was  holding  their 
breath  for  him.  But  when  Seber  rolled  the  ball 
down  the  lane,  he  unfortunately  left  just  one  pin 
standing. 

Seber  bowls  for  CU-JO  -  the  team  which 
has  clinched  the  tide  in  intramural  bowling. 

Other  results  according  to  records  provided 
by  ABC  Bowling  Lanes: 

Team  standings 
Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  CU-JO  29       10 

2.  Destroyers  24       15 

3.  Head  Pins  24       15 

4.  Boneheads  22^2     16 '/z 

5.  Mad  Halters  21        18 

6.  Dew  Crew  21        18 

7.  High  Rollers  21        18 

8.  Cillo-Etts  20       19 

9.  Flintslones  15       24 

10.  Unpredictables  \Wi    U'/i 

11.  Bandits  12       27 

12.  No  Names  7        32 

Men's  liigh  singles 

Seber,  278. 

Mark  E.  Reamsnyder,  business  manage- 
ment student  from  Williamsport,  224. 

Kirk  D.  Zohn,  air  conditioning/refrigeration 
student  from  Fredericksburg,  217. 
Women's  high  singles 

Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  140. 

Linda  S.  Shoup,  business  management  stu- 
dent from  Cogan  Station,  130. 

Cindy  M.  Cekovich,  floriculture  student 
from  Mechanicsburg,  128. 

High  team  singles 

CU-JO,  845. 

Destroyers,  833. 

High  Rollers,  809. 

Men's  high  series 

Seber,  691. 

Reamsnyder,  605. 


Zohn,  589. 

Women's  high  series 

McNeil,  432. 

Shoup,  367. 

Cekovich,  340. 

High  team  series 

CU-JO,  2477. 

Destroyers,  2377. 

High  Rollers,  2372. 

Top  five  averages 

Seber,  217. 

Reamsnyder,  200. 

Zohn,  180. 

Myles  S.  Nurray,  carpentry  construction 
student  from  Wayne,  N.J.,  172. 

Daniel  J.  McKean,  electrical  construction 
from  Shohola,  172. 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 

Today 

Weight  room...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 

Open  gym...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Arm  wrestling  tournament...  6:30  to  10 

Tomorrow 

Bowling...  4  to  6  p.m. 
Open  gym...  4  to  6:30  p.m. 
Softball  tournament...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 
Arm  wrestling  tournament...  6:30  to  10 

This  Wednesday,  April  18 

Open  gym...  4  to  6  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:30  to  6:30  p.m. 

Arm  wrestling  tournament...  6:30  to  10 

This  Thursday,  April  19 

HoHday:   No  activities  scheduled. 


p.m. 


p.m. 


p.m. 


Monday,  April  16,  1984 


One  of  the  season's  best  athletes: 
Sutton  holds  promising  future 


QUIET  ON  THE  COURT...  Well,  it's  not 
exactly  a  movie  production.  In  fact,  it  is  a 
reference  to  peaceful  player  Richard  A.  Sutton, 
carpentry  construction  student  from  Towanda 
who  played  basketball  for  the  College's  Wildcat 
basketball  team. 

"His  only  fault  is  the  fact  that  he  is  too 
quiet  and  for  that  reason,  I  could  never  see  him 
(Sutton)  as  a  point  guard.  But,  on  the  other 
hand,  his  exquisite  ability  makes  him  a  fine 
shooting  guard,"  commented  Louis  J.  Menago, 
who  also  is  machine  shop  instructor. 
Good  all-round  player 

"He  is  not  just  a  fine  outside  shooter,  but 
he  is  a  superb  rebounder  for  his  height  (6'  I")  as 
well  as  a  tenacious  defensive  player,"  added 
Menago. 

Sutton's  game  high  of  hte  season  was  35 
points  -  -  scored  against  Lycoming  College's  JV 
team.  Throughout  the  season,  he  scored  31 
points  against  P.S.U.  Schuylkill  Campus;  netted 
29  points  against  the  Community  College  of 
Philadelphia  and  also  against  Lehigh  County 
Community  College,  and  sunk  13  baskets  for  a 
total  of  26  points  against  Keystone  Junior  Col- 


"He  was  a  model  player  to  work  with 
because  he  would  always  give  all  that  he  had. 
He  is  a  very  unselfish  type  of  player  and  a  very 
coachable  individual  --  which  from  a  coach's 
standpoint  is  one  of  the  most  desirerable 
characteristics,"  stated  Menago. 

Menago  feels  conndenl 

"He  probably  increased  his  potential  100 
percent  from  last  year  and  this  is  due  to  his  in- 
tensity and  confidence.  I  feel  positive  that,  with 
a  diligent  effort  on  his  part  to  work  hard  over  the 
summer  months,  he  should  be  able  to  fit  into  a 
major  college  basketball  program,"  stated 
Menago. 

Future  outlook  good 

Menago,  whose  own  basketball  career  was 
hampered  by  knee  injuries,  began  coaching  at 
the  College  three  years  ago.  He  feels  rather  con- 
fident and  state  that  although  it  takes  a  few  years 
to  get  a  program  established,  it  looks  like  the 
potential  is  increasing  yearly. 

In  the  coach's  eyes  "it  takes  more  fellows 
like  Sutton  to  get  them  on  their  feet  and  keep 
them  there." 


Arm  wrestling  tournament  tonight; 
students  -  men  and  women  -  asked 
to  take  part,  register  right  away 


Students  interested  in  participating  a 
"Monster  Arm  Wrestling  Tournament"  may 
register  today,  according  to  Mrs.  JoAnn  R. 
Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural  athletics 
and  College  activities. 

Registration  forms  are  available  in  Room 
108,  Bardo  Gym,  and  the  cost  is  $1  added  Mrs. 
Fremiotti. 

The  tournament  is  scheduled  to  begin 
tonight  at  6:30  and  weigh  ins  are  from  4  until  6 
p.m. 

The  classes  for  the  competition  in  the  men's 


division  are:  \ 

Flyweight...  150  pounds  and  under.  | 

Lightweight...  151  to  175  pounds.  I 

Middleweight...  176  to  200  pounds.  : 

Heavyweight...  201  to  235  pounds.  i 

Super  Heavyweight...  236  pounds  and  over,  i 

Women's  division 

Lightweight...  135  pounds  and  under. 

Open...  136  pounds  and  over. 

The     "Monster     Arm     Wrestling; 

Tournament"  is     sponsored  by  the  Student  \ 

Government  Association.  \ 


% 


iSffiW«*'iB*'5:W5SSSSiiS!<!SSSSSS?iSiK«S»^^ 


14     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  16,  1984 

Cross-country  runners 
'sign  up'  for  Fall  semester 
now  underway 

Students  interested  in  intercollegiate  cross- 
country running  competition  in  the  fall  may  con- 
tact Phillip  D.  Landers,  associate  professor  of 
business  administration,  at  College  Ext.  227,  or 
in  Room  307,  Academic  Center  (ACC). 

"Both  men  and  women  are  encouraged  to 
join,"  said  Landers.  "I  would  like  the  names 
and  addresses  of  interested  persons  so  I  can  keep 
in  touch  with  them  over  the  summer.  The  cross- 
country season  begins  the  first  week  of  Fall 
semester." 

Computer  Science 
Club  sweatshirt 
reminder  issued 

"Computer  Science  Club  sweatshirts  will 
cost  $15.  Anybody  who  signed  up  for  one 
should  contact  David  A.  Lott,  instructor  of  com- 
puter science,  at  College  Ext.  228  or  Room  305 
of  the  Academic  Center  (ACC)  about  making 
payment  immediately,"  according  to  B.  Drew 
Robison,  club  public  relations  officer  and  com- 
puter science  student  from  Duncansville. 

"This  is  a  second  reminder,"  added 
Robison. 


wvias       *T 


THE  MOST  EXCITING 


SPORTS  I 

TURN  US  ON 


F 


Middle  States  Team 
duties  completed 


LRP  group  'feels  good' 
about  evaluator's  visit 

The  Middle  States  Association  Evaluation 
Team  wound  up  its  three-day  visit  to  the  College 
last  Wednesday,  according  to  Rodney  G. 
Hurley,  dean  of  educational  research,  planning 
and  evaluation. 

"We  feel  good  about  the  visit,"  said 
Hurley,  who  added  that  the  long  range  planning 
process  administrators  won't  know  the  final 
results  of  the  visit  until  the  Middle  States 
Association  reacts  to  the  report. 

Last  Monday  through  Wednesday,  the 
ll-member  team  toured  the  Main,  North,  Earth 
Science,  and  Aviation  Campuses,  as  well  as  the 
Danville  State  Farm  facility.  Evaluators  talked 
to  students  and  faculty  members  randomly,  ask- 
ing questions  about  courses,  policies  and  College 
procedures. 

The  team  also  met  with  every  College  ad- 
ministrative office.  Four  evaluators  lunched 
with  Student  Government  Association  officers 
(SGA)  and  other  student  leaders. 

To  end  the  visit,  team  leader  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Gell  gave  an  "exit  report"  to  committee 
members  who  represented  all  facets  of  the  Col- 
lege. This  will  be  turned  into  written  form  and 
given  to  College  president  Dr.  Robert  L. 
Breuder. 

After  appropriate  administrators  react  to 
this  report,  it  will  be  returned  to  Dr.  Gell,  who 
will  submit  it  to  the  Middle  States  Association 
for  the  final  reaction. 

"I  feel  the  team  has  viewed  the  College  in  a 
very  positive  light,"  said  Hurley.  He  said  many 
College  faculty  and  staff  members  have  been 
very  dedicated  throughout  the  entire  long  range 
planning  process. 

The  final  draft  of  the  long  range  planning 
should  be  completed  by  June  15,  and  given  to 
the  general,  executive,  and  administrative  coun- 
cils. Hurley  said.  This  final  draft  will  then  be 
presented  before  the  Board  of  Tnistees  at  its 
meeting  in  August. 


August  graduates 
may  petition 
after  registration 

August  graduates  may  begin  to  petition  to 
graduate  as  soon  as  they  are  officially  registered 
(paid)  for  summer  scfiool,  said  Mrs.  Therese  A. 
Keen,  student  records. 

The  last  day  for  August  graduates  to  peti- 
tion is  June  22.  All  summer  diplomas  will  show 
a  graduation  date  of  Aug.  17,  1984,  she  said. 

A  final  transcript  and  diploma  will  be  mail- 
ed to  students  after  Aug.  17.  Students  who 
desire  a  diploma  will  be  charged  a  fee  of  $S  if 
they  petition  before  June  22,  she  added. 

Students  who  petition  after  June  22  will  pay 
a  $10  fee  and  there  will  be  a  delay  in  receiving 
the  diploma,  she  stated. 

Women's  Week  activities 
discussed  at  Women's  Forum 

Women's  Week  was  the  topic  of  discussion 
at  the  Women's  Forum  meeting  last  Monday, 
April  9,  in  Room  103,  Academic  Center,  accor- 
ding to  Mrs.  Veronica  M.  Muzic,  professor  of 
English. 

"We  had  a  brief  discussion,  but  made  no 
decision  on  the  shape  of  Women's  Week.  We 
talked  about  continuing  the  series  for  next 
year,"  Mrs.  Muzic  said.  "We  also  had  a  discus- 
sion to  review  material  we  hope  to  mail  to  new 
students  to  familiarize  them  with  the  Women's 
Forum  organization." 

Mrs.  Muzic  also  noted  that  the  club 
adopted  a  logo  (identifying  symbol). 


Monday,  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT    •     is 

College  to  co-sponsor 
Elderhostel  program 

The  College  in  conjunction  with  Lycoming 
College  will  co-sponsor  the  Elderhostel  program 
to  be  held  on  the  Lycoming  College  campus,  ac- 
cording to  Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coor- 
dinator of  community-based  activities. 

The  program  will  be  in  two  sessions.  One  is 
from  June  17  to  23;  the  second  Is  from  Aug.  12 
to  18.  Only  those  people  60  years  old  or  older 
or  those  who  have  a  spouse  or  companion  who 
qualifies  may  attend  the  program,  said  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 

Among  courses  in  the  June  session  are 
studies  on  "Pennsylvania  Canals",  "Geology  of 
the  Appalachian  Mountains",  and  "The  Mean- 
ing of  Life". 

Among  courses  In  the  August  session  are 
"The  Best  of  Nouvelle  Cuisine",  "Baroque 
Painting",  and  "Lakes  and  Ponds-What's 
Really  In  Them". 

So  far,  26  persons  have  signed  up  for  each 
session.  They  will  come  from  all  over  the 
Eastern  Coast  to  attend  these  sessions:  Ohio, 
Maryland,  Delaware,  New  York,  West  Virginia 
North  Carolina,  New  Jersey,  Florida  and  Penn- 
sylvania, she  commented. 

Commuters  will  be  accepted  on  a  limited 
basis,  said  Ms.  Rosenberger.  Those  who  wish  to 
participate  in  the  program  as  a  commuter  should 
register  as  soon  as  possible,  she  said. 

The  deadlines  are  May  21  for  the  June  ses- 
sion and  July  16  for  the  August  session.  In- 
terested persons  may  register  in  Room  102,  the 
office  of  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Education  at  the 
College  or  by  calling  326-3727,  according  to  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 


Speaker  addresses 
Alpha  Omega  Fellowship 
group  tomorrow  evening 

Randy  Allison  from  the  Door 
Fellowship  Church  will  be  a  guest  speaker 
at  Alpha  Omega  Fellowship's  meeting 
tomorrow  at  7  p.m.,  in  Room  6,  Academic 
Center.  The  topic  for  his  lecture  will  be 
"dating",  according  to  Steven  R.  Baney, 
Individual  studies  student  and  member  of 
the  group. 


New  instructor 

to  teach  non-credit 

history  course 

A  new  instructor  for  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education's  non-credit  courses 
is  Donald  Fague,  a  history  teacher  from 
Montgomery  High  School. 

Fague  will  be  teaching  a  local 
history  course,  according  to  Ms.  Sandra 
L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator  of 
community-based  activities. 


16     •    SPOTLIGHT    •     Monday,  April  16,  1984 


Radiologic  technology  students 
pass  ARRT  board  examination 


Eight  members  of  the  1983  graduating  class 
were  eligible  to  lake  the  American  Registry  of 
Radiologic  Technologists  board  examination 
(ARRT)  and  some  have  already  been  employed 
in  their  field. 

The  eight  students  who  have  passed  the 
ARRT  board  examination  are  Miss  Kathy  0. 
Culton,  Miss  Heidi  D.  Fought,  Ms.  Peggy  C. 
Gunter,  Miss  Colleen  K.  Harrel,  Michael  S. 
Klesh,  Miss  Kim  M.  Shellman,  Miss  Lori  L. 
Stiger  and  Craig  C.  Pursel. 

Miss  Culton  and  Klesh  are  presently  atten- 
ding Geisinger  Medical  Center's  School  of 
Radiation  Therapy. 

Miss  Fought  and  Miss  Stiger  are  both 
employed  at  Divine  Providence  Hospital  as  staff 
radiographers. 

Miss  Harrell  is  employed  at  a  hospital  in 
Lousiana  as  a  staff  radiographer/CT  scanner 
operator. 

■.■:yyy.-x«,:yy//A» 

'Safety  Seminar' 
conducted  by  FAA 
at  Aviation  Campus 

The  Federal  Aviation  Agency  (FAA)  con- 
ducted a  "Safety  Seminar"  on  Wednesday, 
April  4,  at  the  Aviation  Campus  at  the 
Williamsport-Lycoming  County  Airport  at  Mon- 
toursville,  according  to  Robert  L.  Norton,  in- 
structor aviation. 

The  seminar  went  from  12:30  to  3  p.m.  All 
first  and  second-year  students  as  well  as  the 
secondary  vocational  students  were  at  the 
seminar,  stated  Norton. 

Warren  Green,  safety  specialist,  discussed 
topics  concerning  propeller  safety,  aircraft  fuel 
safety  and  fuel  contaminatin,  aircraft  structural 
safety,  and  ground  handling  safety,  stated  Nor- 
ton. 

Daniel  Moyer,  maintenance  specialist, 
assisted  in  discussing  FAA  regulations  a 
mechanic  follows  when  he  maintains  an  aircraft. 
Problems  which  have  ocurred  recently  in 
maintenance  as  well  as  an  update  in  rules  and 
regulations  were  discussed,  Norton  also  stated. 


Miss  Shellman  is  employed  at  Bloomsburg 
Hospital  as  a  staff  radiographer. 

Pursel  is  employed  at  the  Williamsport 
Hospital  as  a  staff  radiographer. 

Out  of  the  16  students  enrolled  in  the 
radiologic  technology  1984  graduating  class, 
three  have  been  employed  as  part-time  student 
radiographers  in  the  Williamsport  Hospital's 
radiology  department. 

The  students  employed  are  William  Bannon 
of  Wellsboro;  Miss  Kim  R.  Davis  of  Wellsboro, 
and  Miss  Laura  A.  Rexer  of  Canton. 

These  students  work  during  the  3  p.m.  to  1 1 
p.m.  shift  and  during  the  day  and  evening  shifts 
on  weekends. 

They  perform  the  same  routine 
radiographer's  procedures  as  the  staff 
radiographers  and  are  under  the  direction  of  a 
staff  radiographer. 


Haas,  Pauling 
receive  awards 
at  conference 

Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)  members  David  A. 
Haas,  PBL  president  and  computer  science  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport,  and  Paul  H.  Pauling, 
accounting  student  from  Montgomery,  received 
awards  at  the  13th  Annual  Phi  Beta  Lambda 
State  Leadership  Conference. 

The  conference,  held  April  6  to  April  8  at 
the  Marriott  Hotel  in  Harrisburg,  was  an 
academic  competition  among  Pennsylvania 
chapters  of  Phi  Beta  Lambda.  The  testing 
categories  were  business-related. 

According  to  Paul  W.  Goldfeder,  assistant 
professor  of  business  administration,  Haas 
received  a  third  place  trophy  in  the  Data  Pro- 
cessing II  category  and  Pauling  received  a  Penn- 
sylvania Phi  Beta  Lambda  "Who's  Who"  cer- 
tificate. 

"The  certificate  is  given  to  an  individual 
who  displays  outstanding  participation  and  sup- 
port of  his  local  PBL  chapter,"  said  Goldfeder. 


Monday,  April  16, 1984    •     SPOTLIGHT 


Dairy  herd  management 
students  honored 

Courtesy  College  Information  Office 

Four  dairy  herd  management  students  of 
the  College  were  honored  at  a  recognition  ban- 
quet earher  this  month. 

According  to  Robert  A.  Patton,  instructor 
of  dairy  herd  management,  the  honored  students 
received  plaques  at  the  first  of  what  will  be  an 
annual  event. 

Timothy  L.  Beabes,  of  Somerset  RD  2,  was 
honored  for  outstanding  scholarship. 

Pamela  Jo  Crom,  of  Jamestown  RD  1,  was 
recognized  for  her  outstanding  contribution  to 
the  dairy  herd  management  curriculum. 

William  Fleckinger,  of  Ligonier,  was 
recognized  as  a  hardworking  individual. 

Barbara  J.  Bair,  of  Mill  Hall  RD  2,  was 
honored  as  an  outstanding  student  in  dairy  herd 
management. 

The  students  presented  Glenn  Spoerke,  ac- 
ting director  of  the  Earth  Science  Division,  with 
a  "model"  cow  as  a  gesture  of  appreciation. 

Lloyd  Ebersole,  assistant  manager  of  Sire 
Power  Inc.,  of  Tunkhannock,  delivered  a  speech 
on  "Your  Future  in  the  Dairy  Industry"  and 
told  the  students,  "You  must  learn  to  make  op- 
portunities work  for  you." 

Marlin  McClellan,  regional  director  of  the 
State  Department  of  Agriculture  located  in 
Williamsport,  was  cited  by  the  students  for  his 
outstanding  support  of  the  dairy  herd  manage- 
ment program. 


REMINDING  STUDENTS  thai  gradoalion  ap- 
parel goes  on  sale  today  is  "Big  T",  Ihe 
bool(store  heartthrob,  here  dressed  in  his  com- 
mencemenl  cap  and  gown.      (SPOTLIGHT 

pholo  by  Thomas  F.  Montgomery) 


Highspeed  HighFideUty 


Free  Alpine  key  ring  &  poster  with  purchase  of 
an  Alpine  car  stereo.   Inslallalioqs  available. 


(In  The  B'adm&n  &  Schurer  Building) 
=(Behind  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)p 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 

Williaimporl 

25  W.  Church  S(. 

323-2622 


Monday,  April  16,  1984 


ACROSS 
1  Fat  of  swrne 
5  Flesh 
9  Obese 

12  Century 

13  Spanish  pot 

14  News-galher- 
ing  org 

15  One  ot  a  pair 
17  Exisi 


23  Solitary 

27  Teutonic 
deiiy 

28  Wide  awake 
?9  Succor 


31  Cloth 

34  Roman  gods 

35  Disparaged 

38  Fdroe  Islands 

39  Cry 

41  Guidoshigh 
noie 

42  Chemical  dye 
44  Preposition 
46  Vegetable 

48  Roadside 
liotel 

51  Fight 

52  Fragment 

53  Above 

55  Talked  idly 


' 

T" 

" 

1 

5       6       7 

6 

1 

9 

10 

" 

12 

13 

14 

-^ 

I^EL 

MWM  ^1  p2 

yriT 

"M  ^ 

■" 

30^3,p 

33 

it 

ml 

F 

37^H38 

Fb^'i 

g. 

43 

iE!I!!M!! 

F 

po^.l 

■■H 

1 

53 

S1HS5 

b6 

57 

58 

61 

1 

62 

63 

64 

6b 

59  Everyone 

60  Vessel 

62  Irrilale 

63  Go!)  mound 

64  Very  small 

65  Twirl 
DOWN 

1  Once  around 
track 

2  Beverage 

3  Stall 

4  Tradesmen 

5  Slogan 

6  Spanish 
article 

7  Priests 
vestment 

8  Unit  ol 
Chinese 


10  Imitated 

1 1  Containers 
16  Cuddle  up 
20  The  Emerald 

22  Diphthong 

23  Young  boys 

24  Mixture 

25  Compass 
point 

26  Goddess  o( 
healing 

30  More 
profound 

32  Cut  ol  meat 

33  Period  ol 
fasting 

36  Rubber  tree 

37  Unit  of 


40  Glass  49  Heraldic 
container  bearing 

43  A  continent  50  Longing  to 
abbr  enjoy 

45  Symbol  for  54  Greek  letter 

iron  56  Gratuity 

47  Small  57  Mans  name 
minnow  58  Lair 

48  Protective  61  Preposition 

Last  week's  answer 


S    E   AHA    DAP    TH  TOT 
P   A   cHo  0    L    E    oH  1     D   A 

||eepie|fa||| 

PAL|SATunATES 

completeo|ree 

III "01° ' "° s|| 

0    R    EH  L     1      L    A    CH  A   G     E 
B    E    tHe    X    A     L    tHpO    P 

This  week's  answer 


3  1    1  uHd    1   H  sBn  n  V 

03j.vijd|d  ri|li  d  0 

|||i3na|i3iOtv 

lNVndSS3|d0|| 

NIS03|V13|90S 

3o|a3bunns|ia 

Tn3|a    iv|j.b3nv 

||d3|3nOS3N01 

sanv-i|si3T||| 

N3l|i3    8|lNva3d 

1   d  nHv  n   1  oH3  on  v 
1  V  dHi  V  3  n|a  a  v  n 

Monday  Night  Movie 

W&JF0M            CL/r^TEASTWOOD 

-  iiuisl  dovaslaliiiji 
;■  machine  ever  built... 
is  job. ..steal  it! 

PI 

Clim  Eastwood  II 
^r  n-itz  Manes   scR-cnpiov  ov  Alex  Lasker «.  Wendell  Wellman 
ivd  by  Craig  Thomas   produced  and  uiix-iicd  bv  Clint  Eastwood 

tiimposed  and  ci.nducled  bv  Maurice  Jarre     PunuMM.in"  Color  bv  Deluxe* 


Tonight  •  7:30  p.m. 
ACC  Audilorium 


$1  (wilh  ID) 
$2  (wilhoul  ID) 


Monday.  AprlM  6,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     .     19 


Run!  Run! 
Sign  Up  Now! 


All  students  -  male  or  female-  Interested  in  joining  next  Fall's 
College... 

CROSS  COUNTRY  TEAM 

• 

SIGN  UP  NOW 

Clip  this  handy  form  and  tal<e  it  to  the  Coach:  Mr.  Landers  in 
Room  307,  Academic  Center. 

Name 


Home  Address_ 


Home  Phone  with  Area  Code_ 


Best  of  luck  to  all  graduating  students 

Mike,  Dianne,  and  Craig 

Sneakers 

are 

Vi  off  all  red  tag  sneakers 


magic 


MIXES  PliACE 


\ht 


37  W.  3rd  St.,  Williomsport,  Ph.  322-1  1 1  2 

M(m.-Wfd.  4  Sal.  9:30  l(>  5  Thurs.  &  Kri.  lulO  l»  9 


•     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  Aprill  6,  1984 

Dental  hygiene  students 
learn  in  many  ways 

Continued  from  Page  11 

Students  enrolled  full-time  for  the  two-year  program  all  work  in  the  clinic  -  which  is  open 
36  hours  a  week.  Not  all  of  the  students  work  in  the  clinic  at  the  same  times,  she  pointed  out. 
second-year  students  work  in  the  clinic  12  hours  per  semester  and  first-year  students  put  in 
hours  per  semester. 

Clinic  hours  were  expanded  recently,  Mrs.  Nestarick  said,  by  adding  an  extra  hour  of 
clinic  time  per  student  and,  if  all  goes  as  planned,  the  clinic  will  be  open  evenings  in  the  Fall 
1984  semester. 

Special  groups  treated  at  the  clinic  include  Hope  Enterprises,  Head  Start,  Lycoming 
County  BLAsT  Intermediate  Unit,  local  nursing  homes,  the  Crippled  Children's  Society,  and 
Alternatives  to  PrisonAVork  Release. 

The  clinic,  Mrs.  Nestarick  said,  welcomes  the  public's  participation  in  the  the  lab  as 
hands-on  experience  is  vital  for  the  students  to  gain  experience  in  dental  hygiene  procedures. 

During  their  fourth  semester,  dental  hygiene  students  go  out  to  various  dental  offices  at 
clinics  and  do  rotational  assignments  at  Allenwood  Prison,  the  Geisinger  Medical  Center  in 
Danville,  local  dental  offices,  and  in  the  Jersey  Shore  Area  School  System. 
Program  fully  accredited 

The  dental  hygiene  program,  which  started  at  the  College  in  1978,  is  fully  accredited  by 
the  American  Dental  Hygiene  Association.  The  program  offers  the  theoretical  and  clinical 
training  needed  for  a  variety  of  dental  hygiene  careers.  The  program  provides  a  diversified 
background  to  prepare  students  for  licensing  exams,  for  additional  education,  and  for  jobs. 
The  general  objective  of  the  program,  however,  is  to  prepare  students  to  successfully  pass  the 
National  Dental  Hygiene  Board  examinations,  the  Northeast  Regional  Boards,  the  required  ex- 
aminations for  selected  states,  and  to  qualify  for  employment  as  dental  hygienists. 

Hygienists  are  employed  by  dentists  in  private  dental  practices,  research,  government 
health  agencies,  school  systems,  hospitals  and  industrial  clinics,  military  servicesd  and  in  dental 
hygiene  education  programs. 

The  College's  official  placement  report  for  graduates  of  August  1981  and  May  1982  show- 
ed excellent  job  placement  for  this  field.  Of  the  graduates  responding  -  13  -  100  percent  were 
employed  in  their  field.   Average  starting  salary  was  $16,400. 


Looking  for  a  nice,  clean, 

comfortable  room? 
Call  the  YWCA,  TODAY! 

I    *good  security 
%    "free  swimming 

*free  TV   (in  lounge) 
:;    "Walking  distance  to 
I      WACC  &  downtown     | 

For  more  iiifonmiiion.  CALL:  322-4637 

or  slop  in  lo  ilie  YWCA 

(II  815  W.  4th  St.,  Williamsport 


Monday,  April  16,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     21 


Human  Service  Program  Approved 


Courtesy  College  In/ormalion  Office 

The  College  Board  of  Trustees  in  March  ap- 
proved a  new  associate  degree  program  in  the 
human  services  field.  The  two-year  program  is 
scheduled  to  begin  in  Fall  1984. 

The  program.  Human  Service,  would  train 
people  for  entry-level  jobs  or  for  transfer  to  four- 
year  programs.  Graduates  would  be  trained  for 
positions  in  youth  and  aging  programs,  senior 
citizens  centers,  drug  and  alcohol  counseling 
programs,  child  care  development  agencies,  and 
correctional  facilities. 

Statistics  gathered  during  a  feasibility  study 
for  the  program  indicate  there  are  500,000  peo- 
ple now  working  is  such  positions  across  the 
country. 

Survey  taken 

A  College  survey  of  area  agencies  indicated 
that  tight  budget  constraints  will  make  the 
paraprofessional  human  service  worker  an  at- 
tractive alternative  to  the  applicant  whose 
credentials  require  higher  pay  or  to  the  untrained 
applicant. 

The  program,  budgeted  at  a  cost  of  $40,327 
for  16  students  for  the  first  year,  would  require 
hiring  a  lead  instructor,  with  some  courses  being 
taught  by  current  faculty. 

More   than   60  percent   of  the   required 
courses  come  from  those  currently  offered. 
These  include  general  education  courses  in  com- 
munication, math,  science,  physical  education, 
psychology,  sociology,  and  government. 

Available  to  currenlly-employed 

Core  Human  Service  courses  will  be 
available  to  full-time  students,  part-time  students 
currently  working  in  the  field  who  seek  creden- 
tials, and  other  students  who  select  Human  Ser- 
vice courses  as  electives. 

With  courses  scheduled  in  the  late  after- 
noon, evenings  and  on  weekends.  Human  Ser- 
vice will  be  available  to  part-time  students  who 
are  currently  employed. 

Twenty-four  agencies  responding  to  a 
survey  indicated  they  have  65  current  employees 
who  could  benefit  from  all  or  a  portion  of  the 
proposed  program. 

The  new  Human  Service  program  will  train 
students  in  the  general  therapeutic,  supportive, 
and  preventive  skills  needed  to  serve  people  with 
emotional,  developmental,  social  or  physical 
problems.    Students  develop  counseling,  crisis 


intervention,  group  work  and  case  management 
skills.  They  apply  these  general  skills  through 
studying  agencies  and  though  internships  in  the 
field. 

A  graduate  of  the  Human  Service  program 
should  be  able  to:  provide  generic  therapeutic, 
supportive  and  preventive  services  for  people 
with  emotional,  developmental,  social,  or 
physical  problems;  demonstrate  knowledge  of 
social  and  human  service  delivery  systems  and 
their  role  in  the  local  and  national  community; 
identify  and  link  clients  with  resources  and  ser- 
vices provided  by  local  human  service  agencies, 
and  apply  systematic  procedures  to  identify  pro- 
blems. 

Addilional  goals  listed 

Graduates  should  also  be  able  to  provide 
basic  individual  and  group  counseling  techniques 
to  address  identified  problems;  to  serve  as  client 
advocates  within  a  variety  of  agency  settings  and 
facilitate  movements  of  clients  through  social 
service  systems  maintain  progress  and  case  notes 
and  write  objective  and  accurate  reports;  con- 
tribute to  developing  systematic  programs  for 
personal  change;  listen  actively  to  clients,  col- 
leagues, and  the  community;  apply  principles  of 
psychology,  sociology  and  biology  to  human 
issues. 

Finally,  graduates  should  be  able  to  unders- 
tand and  respect  cultural  differences  which  affect 
behavior  and  beliefs;  contribute  to  effective  agen- 
cy planning,  budgeting  and  management,  and 
understand  and  apply  the  interrelationship  of 
physical,  social  and  mental  well-being. 
Job  polenlial  good 

According  to  a  survey  conducted  by  the 
College,  placement  potential  is  good  for  the  new 
program.  Sixty-eight  and  two-tenths  percent  of 
the  agencies  surveyed  indicated  they  would  be  at- 
tracted to  new  employees  with  such  general  train- 
ing. 

Field  placements  will  be  an  important  part 
of  the  program.  Agencies  responding  to  the 
survey  indicated  a  strong  willingness  to 
cooperate  with  the  College  in  providing  both 
short-term  field  training  and  long-term  intern- 
ships. 

Human  Services  will  be  made  available 
through  the  Integrated  Studies  Division  of  The 
Williamsport  Area  Community  College.  More 
information  is  available  by  calling  the  division 
office  at  (717)  326-3761,  Ext.  331. 


SPOTLIGHT    •    Monday,  April  16, 1984 


OUTDOOR  PICNICKERS  lake  advanlage  of  last  week's  sunny,  mild  weather.  At  left  is 
Susan  M.  Eck  from  WUIiamsporl;  Tina  M.  Cavaliere  from  New  Columbia;  Ann  E 
Machuski  from  MUlville;  Sandy  M.  Kreisher  from  Williamsport,  and  Denise  K.  Golfiere 
from  While  Deer.  An  the  girls  are  advertising  art  students.  [SPOTLIGHT photo  by  Mary  L 


BASKING  IN  the  sun  between  classes  are  left,  Jeff  E.  Walk  from  Brookville;  John  A. 
Barone  from  Williamsport;  Joe  A.  Lutz  from  Williamsport,  and  Greg  S.  Stewart  from 
Linden.   All  are  computer  science  students.   /SPOTLIGHT  photo  by  Mary  L.  PeaseJ 


Monday,  April  16, 1984 


IT'S  GOTTA  BE  SPRING  -  During  a  balmy  day  before  the  "big  slorm"  students  began  to 
gather  on  the  steps  of  the  Academic  Center  to  enjoy  the  chauEing  springlilie  weather.  By  the 
way,  in  case  anyone's  counting,  there  are  9  -  9!!  --  class  days  until  the  end  of  the 
semester.  /SPOTLIGHT  pholoj 


STUDENTS  SITTING  ON  the  Academic  Center's  steps  is  a  familiar  sight.  However,  with 
April  30  just  around  the  corner,  the  steps  will  probably  be  frequented  by  summer  session 
students  the  first  week  of  May.   /SPOTLIGHT  plwlo  by  Mary  L.  Pease/ 


24     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  AprIM  6,  1984 


Bulletin  Board 


For  week  of  Monday,  April  16  through  Sunday,  April  22 
MEETINGS 
Computer  Science  Club...  3:30  p.m.,  tomorrow,  Room  321,  Academic  Center. 
Phi  Beta  Lambda  (PBL)...  4  p.m.,  this  Wednesday,  Room  329,  Academic  Center. 
Alpha  Omega  Fellowship...  7  to  10  p.m.,  tomorrow.  Room  6,  Academic  Center. 
Gamma  Epsilon  Tau...  4  to  5  p.m.,  this  Thursday,  Room  204,  Administration  Building. 

MOVIE 
Firefox...  7:30  p.m.,  tonight.  Academic  Center  Auditorium.  Students  with  validated  ID'S 
will  be  charged  $1.   All  others  will  be  charged  $2. 


PI.AV  LtlCKV 
MIMBF.R.S  AMD 
WIN  A  WHOLF. 
SUB  AND  MKD 
DRINK 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


Spotlight 

Monday,  Aprir  23,  1984     •     Vol.  19,  No.  32     •     36  Pages 
Wllllamsport  Area  Community  College     •     Wllllamsport,  Pa.  17701 


And  Now... 


V 


Commencement,  May  12:   Stories,  Page  2 


J 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


< 

s 


Es3 

z 

o 


Former  legislator 

TO  SPEAK 
AT  COMMENCEMENT 

Lawyer  and  former  legislator  Ms.  Sarah  V/eddington  will  be  the  guest 
speaker  at  the  College's  May  12  commencement,  according  to  Lawrence 
W.  Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling,  career  development,  and  placement. 

Ms.  Weddington,  director  of  the  Texas  office  of  State-Federal  Rela- 
tions in  Washington,  D.C.,  was  the  first  woman  ever  to  be  elected  to  the 
Texas  House  of  Representatives  where  she  served  for  three  terms. 

Ms.  Weddington  also  was  the  attorney  who  won  the  landmark 
Supreme  Court  decision  which  established  that  U.S.  Constitution 
guarantees  to  women  the  right  to  terminate  a  pregnancy. 

She  has  been  featured  in  publications  such  is  Ms,  Working  Women, 
People,  and  the  Washing/on  Post  and  has  been  a  guest  on  programs  such 
as  "Today"  and  "Good  Morning  America". 


COMMENCEMENT 
REHEARSAL  THURSDAY 

There  will  be  a  commencement  rehearsal  at  3  p.m.  this  Thurs- 
day in  the  Academic  Center  Auditorium,  according  to  Lawrence  W. 
Emery  Jr.,  director  of  counseling,  career  development,  and  place- 
ment. 

Commencement  will  be  held  on  Saturday,  May  12  at  2  p.m. 

On  that  day,  students  who  have  signed  up  to  take  part  in  the 
academic  procession  are  to  meet  in  the  hallway  on  the  second  floor  of 
the  Academic  Center.  Additional  information  is  to  be  given  at  the 
rehearsal. 

Students  who  have  not  yet  signed  up  to  lake  part  may  still  do  so 
by  going  to  Room  157,  Learning  Resources  Center,  Emery  said. 

For  the  May  ceremony,  four  tickets  have  been  sent  to  those 
already  signed  up.  Two  tickets  have  been  sent  to  those  who  petition- 
ed to  graduate.  The  director  said  those  seeking  additional  tickets 
should  stop  at  the  Counseling,  Career  Development,  and  Placement 
Office,  Room  157,  Learning  Resources  Center. 

On  commencement  day,  students  will  proceed  from  the 
Academic  Center  -  following  traditional  order,  after  platform  guests 
and  faculty  -  to  the  Bardo  Gym.  Students  will  be  divided  according 
to  alphabet  and  degree-earned. 


Monday,  April  23.  1984 


Whaddya'  say—  ?- 


Question:   Are  you  registered  to  vote?   Why? 

Location:   Academic  Center 
Photos  by  Lorl  M.  Lane 
Interviews  by  Kathryn  M.  Gilbert 


LeAnn  M.  Liver- 
more,  word  processing 
student  from  Trout  Run: 
"No.  I  never  took  the 
time  to  go  down  to 
register  to  vote." 


Martin    0.    Reeder, 
diesel  mechanic  student 


iiy 


from  Muncy; 
)         to  register." 


— 'WY'J  Laura  L.  Press,  ac- 

^^  W  counting    student    from 

«B|gpf  Millerton:     "No,  I  don't 

'"^  have  enough  time  to  picl< 

UmXmmmmm  ^^  ^'9^'  candidate." 


Michelle  D.  Stover, 
computer  science  stu- 
dent from  South 
Williamsport:  "Yes, 
because  when  I  was  in 
high  school  everyone 
else  registered.  I  was 
18." 


"No,  forgot 


Joseph  R 

Crochunis,  diesel 
mechanic  student  from 
Port  Carbon:  "Yeah!  I 
will  when  I  get  around  to 
it." 


%. 


Heidi     K.     Risdon, 
general  studies  student 
from  Branchville,  N.J.: 
"Yes,    I    think    people 
should,  because 

everyone's  opinion 
counts.  You  should  not 
depend  upon  anyone 
else." 


^V 


ii^ 


Nancy  L.  Conroy. 
food  and  hospitality  stu- 
dent from  Williamsport: 
"Yes,  I  think  it  is  very  im- 
portant to  exercise  your 
ability  to  vote  and  ex- 
press your  opinion." 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 

Long  range  planning  works 
throughout  vacation  to  create 
an  efficient  and  effective  College 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

The  College's  long  range  planning  process,  involving  various  members  of  the  College 
staff,  administration,  and  community  members,  recently  hosted  a  three-day  visit  for  the  Mid- 
dle Stales  Association  evaluators. 

The  purpose  of  the  evaluators'  visit  was  to  reaffirm  the  College's  accreditation. 

According  to  a  lew  of  the  long  range  planning  personnel,  the  evaluators  were  "impress- 
ed" with  the  College  and  "overwhelmed"  at  the  quality  of  the  education,  student  reactions, 
and  attitudes  of  the  College  staff  and  faculty. 

Perhaps  many  of  us  lake  advantage  of  what  is  developing  around  us  at  the  College. 
These  long  range  planning  worl<ers  invest  many  long  hours  of  hard  worl<  to  devise  pam- 
phlets and  planning  manuals  and  to  travel  for  seminars  to  benefit  the  College's  future. 

A  planning  manual  titled,  "A  Strategic  Planning  Model",  summarizes  long  range  plann- 
ing accurately:  "In  reality,  the  planning  process  never  ends  as  it  is  cyclical  in  nature  and 
results  in  a  short-range  plan  of  operation  being  generated  annually." 

While  students  and  faculty  break  for  the  summer,  the  long  range  planning  process 
works  diligently  throughout  vacations  In  an  effort  to  create  a  modern,  more  efficient  and  ef- 
fective institution. 


Graduation  jitters:   Will 
you  be  there  May  12? 

...In  the  SPOTLIGHT'S  opinion 

What  am  I  going  to  do?  Only  seven  days  of  school  left  and  I  have  two  finals,  a  test,  an 
English  composition  paper,  and  an  advertising  project  to  do.  I  have  all  this  work  to  do  -  let 
alone  get  ready  lor  graduation. 

Every  night  this  week  I  have  to  do  homework  in  order  to  get  everything  finished.  When 
will  I  have  time  (o  go  to  all  the  end-of-the-year  and  graduation  parties?  I  almost  forgot  to  get 
my  graduation  apparel.  Oh  no,  how  much  will  that  cost  me?  What  do  I  need?  A  cap,  gown, 
hood,  tassel''  If  I  make  it  through  graduation  alive,  it  will  be  a  miracle! 
Who  to  Invite 

Everyone  always  asks:  are  you  nervous  about  graduation?  Well,  to  put  it  mildly,  I'm  a 
long  way  past  nervous  -  leaning  toward  scared. 

All  those  people  will  be  there  watching  me  -  faculty,  staff,  administrators,  family,  and 
friends.   With  my  luck,  I'll  probably  trip  over  rriy  gown  when  I  go  up  to  get  my  diploma. 

Let's  see,  I  have  four  tickets  to  graduation.  Who  will  I  invite?  I  have  so  many  relatives  to 
invite  -  mom,  dad,  my  sister  Martha,  brother  Sam,  Uncle  Vester,  Aunt  Phyllis,  and  Grandma 
Gertrude. 

The  goldfish  too? 

II  Uncle  Vester  comes,  he'll  bring  Aunt  Phyllis'  goldfish  because  she  won't  want  to  leave 
them  unattended    I  guess  those  two  are  out. 

I  got  it!  Sister  Martha  can  sit  on  Grandma  Gertrude's  lap  and  then  they'll  only  count  as 
one  person.   Boy,  aren't  I  a  genius? 

Well,  enough  ol  this  nightmare.  Off  to  the  refrigerator  for  a  Coke  and  some  potato  chips 
and  onto  the  homework  or  I  won't  need  the  cap  and  gown  because  I  won't  be  graduating 
anywayi 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     < 

LETTERS 

(The  following  letter  concerns  a  Whaddya'  say  question  In  the  March  12  SPOTLIGHT.    II 
read:  "Does  a  pregnancy  out-of-wedlock  have  anything  to  do  with  being  qualified  for  the  Na- 
tional Honor  Society^") 
To  SPOTLIGHT  readers: 

Is  this  supposed  to  be  an  example  of  journalism?  I  call  it  an  example  of  garbage  in  print. 
There  are  four  qualifications  for  the  National  Honor  Society:  1 )  scholarship.  2)  leadership, 
3)  character,  4)  service.  Your  feature  makes  no  attempt  to  explain  this.  All  you've  done  is 
to  quote  half  a  dozen  uninformed  people,  and  you've  given  the  impression  that  the  correct 
answer  to  the  question  is  "No"  because  six  out  of  seven  people  said  that,  and  the  majority 
shoujd  be  right. 

Your  poll,  like  many  others,  amounts  to  the  polling  of  ignorance.  Journalism  is  the 
reporting  of  facts,  vi/hich  may  appropriately  be  analyzed  in  editorials,  but  pages  like  this  one 
are  a  disgrace  to  the  profession.  Pregnancy  out-of-wedlock  has  a  great  deal  to  do  with  both 
character  and  leadership.   Hope  you'll  present  the  facts  in  a  coming  issue. 

Wanda  R.  Shirk 
Publications  Adviser,  Northern  Potter  High  School 


Editor's  Note: 

The  question  did  not,  as  you  stated,  make  any  attempt  to  explain  the  qualifications  in  the 
society  (NHS).  We  do  not  know  that  the  students  who  answered  the  question  were  totally 
uninformed. 

We  do  not  present  the  Whaddya'  say  feature  as  a  scientific  poll,  but  rather  simply  as  a 
sampling  of  opinions  of  students  around  the  College  in  the  hope  of  generating  discussion. 
Students  are  indiscriminately  selected  at  random.  As  with  any  "person  in  the  street"  poll,  the 
newspaper  does  not  offer  the  responses  as  "gospel".  The  students'  answers  are  reported 
as  they  give  them 

Since  the  question,  when  asked,  did  not  provide  the  background  of  the  national  news 
story  upon  it  was  based  or  upon  information  about  NHS  and  since  we  presumed  the  general 
readership  was  informed,  we  now  present  the  following  information  concerning  the  society: 

There  are  four  criteria  which  one  has  to  meet:  scholarship,  leadership,  service,  and 
character.  Students  must  have  all  the  qualities  to  be  admitted  into  the  society 

The  scholarship  requirements  call  for  students  to  have  a  cumulative  scholastic  average 
of  85  percent  or  a  B,  which  is  3  0  on  a  4.0  scale,  or  the  equivalent  standard  of  excellence. 
This  is  the  minimum  cumulative  scholastic  average,  but  faculty  councils  in  individual  schools 
may  raise  this  qualification  requirement.  These  councils  may  also  require  a  certain  number 
of  prerequisite  academic  courses. 

Qualified  students  are  selected  by  a  majority  vote  of  the  faculty  council  on  the  preceding 
criteria.  These  criteria  all  have  a  working  definition.  According  to  the  National  Honor  Society 
handbook,  the  student  who  exercises  leadership  is  resourceful  in  proposing  new  problems, 
applying  principles  and  making  suggestions,  demonstrates  leadership  in  promoting  school 
activities,  exercises  influence  on  peers  in  upholding  school's  ideals,  contributes  ideas  that 
improve  the  civic  life  of  the  school,  is  able  to  delegate  responsibilities,  and  many  others. 

Concerning  the  service  criteria,  the  student  who  serves  is  willing  to  uphold  scholarship 
and  maintain  a  loyal  school  attitude,  participates  in  some  outside  activity  such  as  Girl  Scouts, 
Boy  Scouts,  church  groups,  volunteer  services  for  the  aged,  poor  or  disadvantaged,  and 
family  duties,  volunteers  dependable  and  well-organized  assistance,  and  is  willing  to 
sacrifice  to  offer  assistance,  cheerfully  and  enthusiastically  renders  any  requested  service  to 
the  school,  and  is  willing  to  represent  the  class  or  school  in  interclass  and  interscholastic 
competition. 

To  meet  the  requirement  of  character,  the  student  must  take  criticism  willingly  and  ac- 
cept recommendations  graciously,  constantly  exemplify  desireable  qualities  of  personality, 
cooperate  by  complying  with  school  regulations  concerning  property,  programs,  office, 
IPLEASE  CONTINUE  READING  ON  NEXT  PAGE| 


6     .     SPOTLIGHT    •     Monday,  April  23, 1984 

National  Honor  Society 

[CONTINUED  FROM  PRECEDING  PAGEl 

demonstrate  the  highest  standards  of  honesty  and  reliability,  show  courtesy,  concern  and 
respect  for  others,  observe  instructions  and  ruies,  punctuality,  and  faithfulness  both  inside 
and  outside  the  classroom,  and  a  coupie  of  other  definitions. 

We  feel  faculty  councils'  selection  criteria  and  procedures  should  be  fair  and  objective. 
According  to  ivan  B.  Gluckman,  National  Association  of  Secondary  School  Principals 
legal  counsel,  "pregnancy,  vi/hether  vi^ithin  or  without  of  wedlock,  cannot  be  the  basis  for 
automatic  rejection  under  judicial  interpretations  of  federal  law.  But  pregnancy  can  be  con- 
sidered as  one  determinant  of  character,  as  defined  by  a  particular  faculty  council.  Pregnan- 
cy can  be  so  considered  only  if  evidence  of  paternity  is  similarly  regarded  as  indicative  of 
character." 

Zinsser's  On  Writing  Well 
prepares  students  for  college 

William  Zinsser's  book.  On  Writing  Well,  is  not  your  piwiw»<' >S!aaM^«i^ 
ordinary  textbook,  but  rather  an  informal  guide  to  writing 
non-fiction.  On  Writing  Well'  grew  out  of  a  course  that 
Zinsser  taught  at  Yale  University,  Zinsser  makes  learning 
fun  and  easy,  in  this  second  edition.  Zinsser  tries  to 
answer  the  questions  that  were  asked  most  often  by 
writers,  editors,  teachers,  educators,  students,  and 
business  people. 

Although  this  book  is  about  writing,  it  is  not  meant  just  for  "writers".  Its  points  are  valid 
for  all  people  who  have  to  do  writing  just  to  get  along  in  their  jobs  or  at  school. 

In  this  edition,  he  has  included  a  chapter  entitled  "Writing  in  Your  Job"  in  which  he  gives 
tips  on  the  interoffice  memo  and  the  marketing  analysis,  as  forms  of  writing,  using  them  as 
examples  of  the  ability  or  inability  of  an  employee  to  state  an  idea  or  a  set  of  facts  clearly  and 
concisely- 
Enlarged  upon  in  this  book  is  the  chapter  on  sports  writing  in  which  he  tackles  such 
troublesome  new  problems  as  jargon,  sexism,  and  impersonality.  He  has  included  a  new 
section  on  the  lineage  and  techniques  of  American  humor. 

On  Writing  Well  is  illustrated  with  brief  passages  from  many  of  Zinsser's  favorite  non- 
fiction  writers  such  as  George  Orwell  and  John  (vIcPhee, 

On  Writing  Well  is  instructive  but  never  boring,  proving  the  book's  central  point:  That 
there  is  no  subject  which  cannot  be  made  accessible  if  the  writer  goes  about  his  work  with 
humanity  and  cares  enough  to  write  well. 

This  easy-reading,  hard-cover  book  (Harper  &  Row  Publisher)  is  an  $1 1 ,95  sound  In- 
vestment for  anyone  who  has  to  write  either  on  the  job  or  at  school.  It's  recommended  that 
this  book  be  read  over  the  long  summer  months  to  get  prepared  for  next  semester  or  that 
new  job. 


The  SPOTLIGHT  is  publistled  eacin  Monday  morning  of  the  academic  year,  except  for 
College  vacations,  by  journalism  and  other  Interested  students  of  The  Wllllamsport  Area 
Community  College 

Office:  Room  7,  Academic  Center,  1006  W,  Third  St.,  Wllllamsport,  Pa  17701, 
Telephone:  (7171  326-3761,  Extension  221 


Harmony  Theatre 
presents  'GodspelP 
tomorrow  evening 

"Godspell"  will  be  presented  by  the  Har- 
mony Theatre  at  8  p.m.,  tomorrow  in  the 
Academic  Center  Auditorium,  according  to  Mrs. 
JoAnn  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramural 
athletics  and  College  activities. 

"Godspell",  as  conceived  by  John-Michael 
Tebelak,  is  a  jubilant  celebration  of  the  Gospel 
as  told  by  St.  Matthew,  she  said. 

Many  theatrical  devices  will  be  used.  They 
include  pantomime,  children's  games,  charades, 
puppetry,  vaudeville  antics,  the  question-answer 
technique  of  minstrel  shows,  tap  and  soft  shoe, 
dancing,  pop,  rock,  light  musical  comedy,  and 
drama,  according  to  Lawrence  Carra,  professor 
of  play  directing,  Carnegie-Melon  University. 

Appearing  in  the  cast  are  Chris  Hendricks, 
of  Williamsport  as  Jesus  and  Joel  Gori,  of 
Lewisburg  as  John  the  Baptist/Judas. 

Also  appearing  are  Mary  Jean  Casale  (co- 
producer  of  Harmony  Theatre),  Bemadette 
Haas,  Sherry  Hillyard  (choreographer);  Paula 
M.  Patchin,  I^rry  Savitsky,  and  Kalyn  Shaible, 
all  of  Williamsport;  Cindy  Ross,  of  Sunbury; 
and  Eric  Shaefer,  Ralston. 

This  event  is  sponsored  by  the  College's 
Special  Events  Committee.  It  is  free  to  all 
students  with  a  validated  student  ID. 

SGA  appoints 
new  officers 

New  officers  have  been  appointed  for  the 
Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  for  the 
1984-85  school  year,  according  to  Miss  Ruth  A. 
Fischer,  general  studies  student  from 
Williamsport  and  current  SGA  president. 

Miss  Fischer  will  be  graduated  this  Spring 
and  the  current  vice  president,  Steven  D.  Met- 
zker,  business  management  student  from 
Williamsport,  will  fill  the  position  of  president. 

Greg  S.  Stewart,  computer  science  student 
from  Linden,  will  hold  the  positin  of  vice  presi- 
dent, said  Miss  Fischer. 

Miss  Fischer  added  that  next  year  the  SGA 
Office  will  be  located  in  Room  A138,  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     7 


KICKING  UP  their  heels  at  the  Bluegrass 
Festival  on  April  12  are  (he  Step  Cadets,  a  clog 
dancing  (roupe  from  Ithaca,  N  Y 
(SPOTLIGHT  photo  by  Mary  L.  Pease) 

Summer  brochures 
now  available 

Brochures  for  summer  non-credit  courses 
now  are  available,  according  to  Mrs.  Carol  F. 
Kaufman,  coordinator  of  campus-based  ac- 
tivities. 

Three  new  summer  courses  have  been  add- 
ed. These  are  "Programming  Your  TI"  (Texas 
Instruments  calculator),  which  will  be  taught  by 
Anthony  Davies;  "Colonial  Lampshades", 
which  will  be  taught  by  Craftswoman  Bobbi 
Dwyer;  and  a  course  which  will  be  taught  by 
WILQ  sports  director  Bill  Keen  called  "Arm- 
chair Football".  This  course  deals  with  obtain- 
ing a  spectator  knowledge  of  football,  according 
to  Mrs.  Kaufman. 

"Since  we've  developed  the  computerized 
mailing  list  over  the  last  two  years,  we've  mailed 
in  the  neighborhood  of  11,000  brochures  based 
on  the  mail  list  generated  by  the  administrative 
computer,"  Mrs.  Kaufman  noted. 

Mrs.  Kaufman  also  noted  that  for  the  first 
time,  community-based  activities  are  listed  in  the 
summer  brochure. 


8     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 

Intensive,  special 

five-day  course 

will  be  held  May  7  to  11 

"Kubvan  100  General  Repair"  is  an  inten- 
sive five-day  course  which  will  be  held  at  the  Col- 
lege May  7  to  1 1 ,  according  to  Grant  L.  Martin, 
coordinator  of  specialized  technical  educational 
programs. 

Grumman  Allied  will  select  10  trainees  from 
different  parts  of  the  Northeast  to  take  part  in 
the  course,  according  to  Martin, 

"This  course  involves  instruction  in  general 
repair  and  maintenance  jobs  that  most  frequent- 
ly occur  in  the  workshop,"  said  Martin. 

The  course  is  being  developed  by  William 
Debolt,  director  of  the  Technology  Division. 
Two  faculty  members,  Rodman  H.  Perry, 
automotive  instructor,  and  Lawrence  P.  Stabler, 
assistant  professor  of  automotive  technology, 
will  be  instructing  the  course,  according  to  Mar- 


College  to  host  seminar; 
acquaints  store  personnel 
with  computer  processes 

The  Middle  Atlantic  College  Stores  Com- 
puter Seminar  will  be  held  at  the  College  on 
Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  May  22  and  23,  accor- 
ding to  Ms.  Sandra  L.  Rosenberger,  coordinator 
of  community-based  activities. 

The  seminar  will  be  sponsored  by  the 
Center  for  Lifelong  Education  and  the  College 
bookstore.  It  will  include  two  different  classes  to 
instruct  college  store  personnel  in  computer  pro- 
gramming, according  to  Ms.  Rosenberger. 

Alex  W.  Bailey,  professor  of  business  ad- 
ministration, will  teach  a  class  in  word  process- 
ing and  Thomas  M.  Winder,  assistant  professor 
of  computer  science,  will  teach  a  class  in  basic 
computer  programming. 

"We  expect  35  people  from  all  over  the 
Mid-Atlantic  area  (Delaware,  Maryland,  New 
Jersey,  West  Virginia,  and  Washington,  D.C)  to 
attend  this  two-day  conference,"  said  Ms. 
Rosenberger. 


ij  River  islands 

14  Poker  slake 

15  Kind  of 
firecracker 

17  Everyone 

19  Coniunction 

20  Strike 

21  Wonhless 


25  Harvesi 
goddess 

26  Rivei  in  Itali 
J7  Male  sheep 
28Fnist 

29  Venlilaled 

32  Three-loed 

33  Trapping 

35  Negalive 

36  Beq 

38  Peilorm 


,!9  Paid  notices 

40  Symbol  for 

41  Sulli« 
follovier  of 

42  Church  part 

43  River  island 
45  Peer  Gym  s 


n" 

'^ 

3~ 

1 

■• 

5~ 

6     ,7     -S      . 

10 

" 

12 

13 

1        1^^ 

,5 

T 

■"n  w 

IP" 

■^  1  n 

24 

i'' 

M"     ■■ 

J7 

■ 

TT 

W     F 

1" 

34           1—35 

n 

«pr 

.■3: 

IB'I 

W'  ^_ 

W 

Li 

4S                      p^L 

47 

W 

■^ 

L 

bO 

51 

1 

54     55 

■r 

Jt 

57  Kiln 

58  Verve 

59  Gram 
DOV\/N 

1  Corded  cloth 

2  Native  metal 

3  National 


ol  time 
16  Goal 
18  Army  otficei 

abbr 

21  fvtanage 

22  Click  beetle 

23  Snare 

24  Call 

25  Anglo-Saxon 
money 

26  Hog 

28  Conjunction 

29  Emmet 

30  Goals 

31  Portion  of 
medicine 

33  Sink  in 
middle 


34  Frozen  wale 

37  Dine 

39  Come  on  tht 

4  1  Fiber  plant 

42  Beverage 

43  In  addition 

44  Greek  letter 

45  IVIans 

46  Solar  disk 

48  Skill 

49  Nahoor 
sheep 

50  Arid 

51  Diocese 


This  week's  answer 


3 

A 

dHN 

V 

n 

'■' 

s 

V 

0 

^ 

u 

vIb 

N 

3 

n|» 

V 

i 

s 

S 

1 

3 

i 

s 

3 

3 

i 

S 

1 

n 

V 

1 

0 

1 

d 

1 

V 

1 

3 

s 

V 

1 

i 

1 

i 

d 

(J 

V 

1 

3 

i 

1 

1 

0 

V 

s 

a 

V 

1 

i 

0 

V 

1 

0 

V 

3 

0 

N 

1 

0 

N 

1 

u 

N 

s 

1 

1 

V 

a 
1 

1 

1 

V 

1 

a 

u 

V 

1 

V 

u 

0 

d 

1 

S 

d 

0 

1 

» 

3 

H 

1 

3 

1 

a 

1 

\j 

0 

1 

1 

H 

u 

0 

1 

1 

V 

1 

a 

u 

V 

i 

9 

i 

vBs 

1 

vVn 

ti 

3 

i 

s 

0 

hIi 

n 

V 

1  ■v 

0 

u 

Speakers  spark 
lit  course 

Writers  and  others  in  the  "book  world" 
were  featured  during  the  spring  semester  offering 
for  literature  lovers,  EDU  121,  Children's  and 
Young  Adult  Literature.  The  course  was  in- 
itiated by  Mrs.  Mary  Jane  West,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  English  and  economics. 

Among  speakers  were: 

Mrs.  Betsy  Rider,  who,  with  her  husband, 
John  Rider,  own  Otto's  Book  Store.  Mrs.  Rider 
spoke  on  "sexism"  and  other  "isms"  in 
children's  books. 

Dr.  M.  Louise  Stabler,  owner  and  operator 
of  Stabler's  Mason  Reading  CUnic,  spoke  on 
"Getting  People  from  Seven-to-Seventy  to 
Read". 

Mrs.  Susan  Middleton,  an  executive  with 
Headstart  and  wife  of  Dr.  James  E.  Middleton, 
director  of  Integrated  Studies  Division,  dealt 
with  "How  to  Get  Toddler's  Ready  to  Read". 

Mrs.  Kathryn  Lumley,  member  of  the  Col- 
lege Board  of  Trustees,  organized  the  Reading  Is 
Fun  program  better  known  as  RIF.  She  is  also 
the  author  of  13  children's  instructional  books. 
Some  were  illustrated  by  Charles  Shultz.  Her 
topic  was  "How  to  Become  a  Writer  of  Chilren's 
Books". 

"The  course  is  offered  every  other  spring," 
said  Mrs.  West,  adding  that  "if  enough  interest 
is  generated,  the  class  could  be  offered  more 
often.' 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     9 

Members  of  SME 
to  attend  dinner, 
technical  session 

Members  of  the  Student  Society  of 
Manufacturing  and  Engineering  Club  (SME)  will 
attend  a  dinner  and  technical  session  Monday, 
May  14,  at  the  Sheraton  Motor  Inn, 
Williamsport,  according  to  Chalmer  C.  Van 
Horn,  club  adviser. 

Dinner  will  be  served  at  6;30  p.m.  Reserva- 
tions should  be  made  by  next  Monday,  April  30, 
and  must  be  paid  in  advance. 

Students  interested  in  attending  the  dinner 
and  technical  session  should  contact  Van  Horn 
in  Room  107,  Administration  Building. 

The  technical  session  will  begin  at  8  p.m. 
and  anyone  is  welcome  to  attend,  said  Van 
Horn. 

Thomas  Reiley,  manager  of  the  Harrisburg 
District  of  Schrader  Bellows  Division  of  the 
Scovill  Fluid  Power  Group,  assisted  by  Burt 
Martinez,  national  sales  manager  for  robotics, 
will  demonstrate  a  Pick  &  Place  Motion  Mate  # 
1  Robot,  explaining  its  controls  and  capabilities. 

Schrader  Bellows  is  the  leading  American 
manufacturer  of  the  full  line  of  industrial  robots. 
Videotapes  of  the  various  types  will  also  be 
discussed,  stated  Van  Horn. 

Technical  sessions  are  held  every  month  ex- 
cept for  the  summer  months,  he  noted. 


Students  complete  project 
in  Susquehanna  Township 


Courtesy  College  Informalion  Office 
One  project  completed  last  month  by  Col- 
lege students  saved  residents  of  Susquehanna 
Township  (Nisbet  area)  about  $50,000,  accor- 
ding to  Arthur  L.  Shuman,  roadmaster  and 
maintenance  superintendent  of  Susquehanna 
Township. 

Postsecondary  students  in  construction 
carpentry  and  carpentry  and  building  construc- 
tion technology  as  well  as  secondary  masonry 
students  built  a  48  by  60  foot  cinder  block 
building  for  the  township.  Final  estimated  cost 
to  the  township  was  $20,000. 

Students  did  about  85  percent  of  the  work, 
doing  nearly  everything  except  the  plumbing  and 
wiring. 


The  16-foot  high  structure  is  being  used  for 
offices  and  maintenance  space  by  the  township. 
Only  the  exterior  of  the  building  remains  to  be 
finished  and  the  township  has  contracted  to  have 
that  done. 

Ralph  Home,  director  of  the  Construction 
Technology  Division,  said  the  students  in  his 
division  have  been  involved  in  about  a  half 
dozen  projects  in  the  past  year,  including  work 
at  St.  Anthony's  Center,  Williamsport,  and  the 
Boy  Scout  headquarters,  Northway  Road, 
Williamsport. 

Students  from  construction  carpentry, 
carpentry  and  building  construction  technology, 
plumbing  and  geating,  and  electrical  technology 
have  all  worked  on  the  projects. 


10     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 

Jonathon  F.  Miller  elected  PBL  president 

Newly-elected  Phi  Bela  Umbda  (PBL)  officers  for  the  1984-1985  year  are; 

Jonathon  F  Miller,  computer  science  student  from  Williamsport,  president 

Todd  D.  Bogenrief,  computer  science  student  from  Watsontown.  vice  president. 

Elizabeth  A.  Zerby,  secretarial  science  student  from  Avis,  secretary. 

Tina  E  Poust  business  management  student  from  Hughesville,  treasurer. 

Judy  L.  Brokaw,  computer  science  student  from  Canton,  historian  and  public  relations  ot- 

"^"'james  R  Matthews,  computer  science  student  from  Shamokin,  administrative  aide 
According  to  David  A.  Haas,  outgoing  PBL  president  and  computer  science  student  from 

Williamsport,  the  new  officers  were  formally  recognized  at  the  PBL  installation  banquet  on 

Wednesday,  April  11,  at  the  Sheraton  Motor  Inn,  Williamsport. 
"1  wish  them  all  the  best  of  luck  for  next  year,"  said  Haas. 

Rebuilding  Piper  Comanche  engine 
maior  project  for  aviation  students 

*****J  r        J  Gleams  with  gol( 


By  Kalhy  M.  Gilbert 
Of  The  SPOTLrGHT  Staff 

Second-year  students  at  the  Aviation  Campus 
at  the  Williamsport-Lycoming  Airport  m  Mon- 
toursville  have  been  working  on  a  major  project: 
rebuilding  the  engine  of  a  1958  Piper  Comanche 
airplane.  ,  ,    „. 

The  airplane  is  number  78  off  the  Piper  Air- 
craft Corporlalion  production  line  in  Lock  Haven. 
The  students  removed  the  180  Avco-Lycoming 
engine  from  the  airplane  by  using  a  hoist.  The 
engine  was  then  taken  to  the  shop  and  placed  on  an 
engine  stand  where  the  students  disassembled  it. 

During  the  disassembly,  the  students  did  a 
dimensional  inspection  with  a  micrometer.  The 
magnallux  machine  was  used  to  detect  cracks  in  the 
metal  and  the  zyglo  machine  was  also  used  to  detect 
cracks  in  non-ferrous  metals. 

Other  parts  checked 
Other  engine  parts  were  checked  and  replaced 
if  they  showed  any  wear.  The  cylinders  were  sent  to 
Penn  Yan  Aero  Service,  Penn  Yan,  N.Y.  to  have 
work  done  on  them. 

The  owner  of  the  airplane.  Herb  Wahl,  of 
Herb's  Model  Motors  of  Forksville,  is  a  builder  of 
small  aircraft  engines  for  model  airplanes.  Wahl 
stated,  that  he  started  building  aircraft  engines  in 
1966.  At  that  time,  he  began,  on  a  small  scale, 
making  engine  parts  and  taking  orders  for  them. 

Ten  years  ago,  he  got  permission  from  Bill 
Brown  to  reproduce  Brown's  classic,  Brown  Jr., 
engine.  Wahl  said  this  engine  was  called  the  "An- 
niversary Brown"  to  honor  the  first  official  gas 
engine  for  model  airplanes.  This  engine  was  in- 
vented shortly  before  Brown  moved  to  Stale  College 
to  study  engineering  at  Penn  State  University. 


Gleams  with  gold 

Another  model  engine  produced  by  Wahl  is  the 
Ohisson  Commemorative  Engine,  gleaming  with 
24-karet  gold  plating.  It  is  named  after  the  original 
1938  Ohisson  Gold  Seal  engine,  Wahl  said,  adding 
that  his  version  includes  one  or  two  special  touches 
like  a  gold  cylinder  to  distinguish  it  from  the 
original  engine. 

Irwin  Ohisson,  inventor  of  the  Ohissoii  Gold 
Seal  engine  insisted  on  signing  all  900  cards  himself, 
stated  Wahl.  Ohisson  is  one  of  the  pioneers  in  the 
field,  coming  after  the  king,  "Bill  Brown". 

Wahl  explained  that  he  works  strictly  on  a 
limited  edition  basis  with  each  engine  model,  cut- 
ting off  production  after  a  certain  number  of  orders 
has  been  received.  The  orders  come  in  response  to 
small  ads  placed  in  collectors'  journals  and  notices 
to  hobbyists  on  a  special  mailing  list. 
Incentive  provided 

"Once  you  have  accepted  advance  payments 
on  900  engines,  that  gives  you  the  incentive  to  get 
out  in  the  shop  to  produce,"  Wahl  stated.  Each 
engine  is  packed  in  a  gold-colored  shipping  box 
with  a  numbered  certificate  of  endorsement  and 
authenticity  card  signed  by  the  inventor,  Irwin 
Ohisson,  of  Los  Angeles. 

Wahl  met  James  E.  Doebler,  instructor  of 
aviation,  a  few  years  before  he  began  work  at  the 
College.  Doebler  had  been  doing  the  maintenance 
on  the  aircraft  and  was  familiar  with  it,  Wahl  ex- 
plained. 

Wahl  said  he  came  to  the  Aviation  Campus  to 
ask  Doebler  who  he  would  recommend  to  do  the 
maintenance  on  his  airplane. 

(PLEASE  CONTINUE  READING  ON  PAGE  27| 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     11 


THEY'RE  Young... 
THEY'RE  'Older... 
And  THEY'RE  Meeting 
IN  THE  Classrooms 


A  SPOTLIGHT  Special  Report 
By  Rodney  D.  Hill 


12     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  April  23,  1984 


More  and  more  so-called  "older"  students  -- 
from  mid-20s  and  on  up  --  are  returning  to  the 
College  classrooms... 

How  do  they  and  the  so-called  "younger" 
students  ~  just  out  of  high  school  --  feel  about 
being  in  the  same  learning  situation? 


The  mix  of  "older"  and  "younger"  students  at  the 
College  undoubtedly  presents  a  rather  new  experience  for 
most  who  enter  the  College  as  students. 

"Older"  students  lend  to  believe  -■  if  casual  conversa- 
tion can  be  accepted  -  that  they  will  not  be  as  "sharp"  as 
they  once  were.  With  that  in  mind,  they  think  they  will  be 
less  competitive  than  their  classmates  who  are  fresh  out  of 
high  school. 

Younger  students,  on  the  other  hand,  have  just 
cotne  from  a  high  school  environment  and  are  only  familiar 
with  fellow  students  who  are  of  their  own  age  group. 

In  keeping  with  these  thoughts,  three  selected  groups 
were  interviewed: 

--  Older  students  who  are  24  years  of  age  and  older. 

--  Younger  students  18  to  23  years  old. 

--  Faculty  members  selected  indiscrimately  at  random. 


Considering  the  responses,  it  appears  there  is  no  gap 
between  younger  and  older  students. 

The  fact  that  older  students  indicate  they  want  more 
out  of  their  education  seems  rather  common  --  and  seems  to 
be  due  to  their  prior  life-experiences. 

If  the  older  students  were  to  go  back  a  few  years  and 
look  at  themselves,  according  to  other  conversations  during 
the  interviews,  they  would  probably  see  that  the  younger 
students  have  what  could  be  called  a  typical  approach  to  col- 
lege. 

The  older  students,  overall,  seem  to  be  amazed  at 
what  information  they  retained  from  schooling  and  at  the 
progress  they  now  are  making. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


Comments 

BY 

Older 
Students 


Question:  Besides  age,  do  you  see  any  differences  between  the  older  and  the  younger 
students? 

Paul  R.  Reese,  25-year-old  industrial  drafting  student  from  Williamsport:  /  Ihink  Ihe 
older  students  are  out  to  learn  more  -  because  they  seem  to  apply  more  effort. 

Phoebe  B.  Thompson,  42-year-oid  business  management  student  from  Williamsport: 
We  older  students  lend  to  put  more  interest  and  concentration  on  our  studies.  The  younger 
student  seems  to  be  here  for  more  social  activities. 

Bonnie  L.  Bower,  40-year-old  general  studies  student  from  Williamsport:  Experience 
The  attitude  towards  school  is  different  from  when  you  are  younger. 

Thomas  0.  Brickell,  30-year-old  construction  carpentry  student  from  Cogan  Station: 
Our  study  habits;  we  put  in  more  study  time. 

Andrew  C.  Sutrvn,  2(5-year-old  general  studies  student  from  Loyalsock:  Yes,  the  ap- 
proach to  school...  my  ideas  of  school  and  what  I'm  here  for.  The  younger  students  don't 
seem  to  be  here  for  the  same  reason  I  am. 

Vincent  M.  Stone,  24-year-old  computer  science  student  from  Jersey  Shore:  Yes. 
Maturity. 

Michael  a.  Bower,  28-year-old  electronics  technology  student  from  Bastress:  No,  not 
really. 

Clyde  W.  Mazza,  "older"  student  from  Lock  Haven  enrolled  in  business  management: 
No.  Some  of  the  younger  students  back  away  from  the  older  students  at  first,  but  eventually 
they        do        come       forward        and        want        to        be       friendly. 

Gary  F.  Rauch,  31-year-old  electronics  technology  student  from  Oval:  Yes,  I  think  the 
older  students  seem  to  want  an  education  more  than  some  of  the  younger  students. 

Tracy  Decoursey,  37-year-old  industrial  drafting  student  from  Liberty:  Not  really.  All 
students  are  here  for  learning  purposes. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Question:  For  whal  reason  did  you  come  back  to  school? 

Paul  R.  Reese:  The  job  siiuaiion. 

Bonnie  L.  Bower:  I'm  changing  careers. 

Thomas  0.  Brickell:  The  job  situation. 

Andrew  C.  SUTRYN:  To  learn  the  skills  that  I  will  use  qfler  college. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  /  didn't  like  working  infacolries  and  I  know  I'm  more  intelligent 
than  what  a  factory  requires. 

Michael  A.  Bower:  /  was  laid  off  from  my  job  and  decided  to  take  a  second  trade. 

Clyde  W.  Mazza:  Boredom. 

Gary  F.  Rauch:  I've  always  worked  the  construction  jobs  and  with  today's  economy,  I 
was  forced  to  choose  a  new  career. 


Question:  Do  yoo  have  any  experiences  since  coming  back  (o  school  which  stand  out? 

Phoebe  B.  Thompson:  /  was  very  concerned  about  being  older  than  the  average  stu- 
dent. I  found  the  adjustment  was  easy. 

Bonnie  L.  Bower:  The  teachers  that  I  have  had  have  been  extremely  helpful.  Their 
language  is  excellent. 

Thomas  0.  Brickell:  The  fact  that  I'm  getting  more  material  than  I  expected. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  I'm  having  fun. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  My  confidence  has  grown. 

Michael  A.  Bower:  I'm  surprised  I'm  learning  things  in  such  a  short  period. 

Clyde  W.  Mazza:  When  I  found  the  younger  students  were  more  friendly...  that  made 
things  easier. 

Gary  F.  Rauch:  Yes.  My  grades.  I  found  I  can  compete  with  the  younger  students  just 
getting  out  of  high  school. 

Tracy  Decoursey:  The  results  of  my  work  have  made  me  much  more  corrtfortable. 


Question:  how  do  you  feel  since  coming  back  to  school? 

Paul  R.  Reese:    /  know  what  I'm  doing  here  and  I  enjoy  it. 

Phoebe  B.  Thompson:  It's  very  exciting  and  challenging.  I  am  very  amazed  at  how 
much  easier  it  is  to  learn...  after  the  years... 

Bonnie  L.  Bower:  /  enjoy  it  very  much.  It  doesn't  bother  me  at  all  to  be  here  with 
younger  students. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  I  feel  like  I'm  in  the  right  place  and  doing  the  right  thing.  It's 
still  scary:  doing  the  work. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  I'm  definitely  motivated  and  I  feel  very  positive  about  my  educa- 
tion. 

Michael  a.  Bower:  Ifeel  good  about  being  here. 

Clyde  W.  Mazza:  It's  something  I've  always  wanted  to  do  -  and  now  I'm  doing  it. 

Gary  F.  Rauch:  Ifeel  a  little  out  of  place  because  of  my  age. 

Tracy  Decoursey:  Ifeel  good.   I  also  feel  like  I'm  accomplishing  something. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Question:  Do  you  think  the  two  groups  gel  treated  an;  differently? 

Paul  R.  Reese:  No. 

Phoebe  B.  Thompson:  No...  although  maybe  some  of  the  instructors  tend  lo  ally  with 
the  older  students  only  because  of  reference  points  in  time. 

Bonnie  L.  Bower:  No,  I  think  they  all  get  treated  the  same. 

Thomas  0.  Brickell:  No,  not  at  all. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  Definitely  -  because  of  how  the  two  groups  act. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  No.  There  is  a  difference  of  how  the  two  groups  act,  but  neither 
group  gets  treated  differently. 

Michael  M.  Bower:  No. 

Clyde  W.  Mazzm  No,  I  don't  think  so. 

Gary  F.  Rauch:  No,  not  at  all. 

Tracy  Decoursey:  /  never  really  look  notice. 

Question:  Does  school  have  any  effect  on  your  family? 

Thomas  0.  Brickell:  On  the  positive  side;  we  have  goals  set. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  Yes:  They  enjoy  it. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  Yes,  financially.  I  had  to  quit  my  job.  I  also  have  to  balance  my 
time  at  home  and  school. 

Michael  A.  Bower:  No.  My  wife  goes  to  school  also.  We  both  have  a  lot  of  studying 
and  we  know  the  work  involved. 

Gary  F.  Rauch:  Yes,  because  my  wife  is  working  lo  support  us.  But  she  isfiill-force 
behind  me. 


Question:  Are  there  any  advantages  to  being  an  older  student? 

Paul  R.  Reese:  The  older  students  are  out  to  learn  more  because  they  know  what  the 
competition  is  like. 

Phoebe  B.  Thompson:  My  priorities  are  set  toward  education. 

Bonnie  L.  Bower:  Definitely.  You're  not  as  quick  to  say  'I'll  go  to  a  party'. 

Thomas  0 .  Brickell  :  r/if  experience.  The  older,  the  more  experienced.  I  know  what  I 
should  be  learning  now. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  Yes:  The  way  you  get  treated  I  say  things  that  I  feel  should  be 
said. 

Vincent  M.  Stone:  Yes,  maturity.    You  try  harder  and  you're  more  determined. 

Michael  A.  Bower:  The  fact  that  the  younger  students  want  to  party.  They  don  7  have 
the  partying  out  of  them  yet.  The  older  person  is  therefor  learning. 

Clyde  W.  Mazza:  If  there  is,  I  don't  know  of  any. 

Tracy  Decoursey:  /  think  an  older  student  wants  an  education  more  than  the  younger 
student  does. 


Additional  remarks  from  older  students: 

Phoebe  L.  Thompson:  /  would  very  much  encourage  anyone  to  go  back  to  school. 

Andrew  C.  Sutryn:  One  thing  that  distinguishes  the  older  students  from  the  younger 
students  is  (that)  the  younger  group  seems  to  be  here  with  a  definite  goal  in  mind.  They  are  all 
workingforajob,  career  or  a  paycheck.  The  older  students  seem  to  be  more  realistic  about 
their  skills  arid  education. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday.  April  23,  1984 


Comments 

BY 

Younger 
Students 


Question:  how  do  you  feci  about  having  older  students  as  classmates? 

Todd  J.  Caruso,  22-year-ol(l  general  studies  student  from  Lock  Haven;  Hike  it  because 
ii  lakes  away  Ihe  high-school  type  atmosphere. 

Mark  A.  Leshock,  20-year-old  tool  design  technology  student  from  Shamokin:  I  feel 
they  are  more  alert  to  their  education. 

Christopher  R.  Kline,  20-year-old  computer  science  technology  student  from 
Shamokin:  They  speak  up  whereas  younger  students  are  afraid  to  ask  questions. 

Cathy  L.  Milunic,  19-year-old  broadcasting  student  from  McEwensville:  I  gel  along 
with  Ihe  older  students.    We  all  have  a  good  lime. 

N4ARC  E.  LX)VELL,  18-year-old  machine  tool  technology  student  from  Linden:  It's  nice  to 
have  older  students  around.  They  have  a  little  more  experience  and  they  can  explain  things 
better. 

Christopher  M.  Firmstone,  18-year-old  electrical  technology  student  from  Northamp- 
ton: /  gel  along  good  with  them. 

Jeffrey  J.  Stroehmann,  19-year-old  auto  body  repair  student  from  Williamsport:  I  gel 
along  good  with  them. 

Kenneth  J.  Sathonary,  19-year-old  auto  mechanics  technology  student  from 
Brodheadsville:  Fine.  I  get  along  real  good  with  them. 

Robert  J.  Roy,  22-year-old  air  conditioning  and  refrigeration  student  from 
Williamsport:   They  are  helpful  to  me  because  of  their  experience. 

Mark  E.  Solomon,  18-year-old  food  and  hospitality  management  student  from  Mifflin- 
burg:  /  think  a  person  should  be  a  little  older  before  attending  college  because  they  have 
more  of  an  idea  of  what  they  want. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     17 


Question:  Do  you  think  the  two  groups  of  students  gel  treated  any  differently? 

Todd  J.  Caruso:  No. 

Mark  A.  Leshock:  No. 

Christopher  R.  Kline:  /  ihink  ihey  are  treated  equally. 

Cathy  L.  Milunic:  No. 

Marc  E.  LOVELL:  Older  students  might  get  a  little  more  respect  only  because  they  have 
more  life  experience. 

Christopher  M.  Firmstone:  No,  not  at  all. 

Jeffrey  J.  Stroehmann:  No. 

Kenneth  J.  Sathonarv:   No.  The  older  students  might  get  asked  more  questions 
because  of  their  experience. 

Robert  J.  Roy:  /  don't  think  there  is  any  difference  in  treatment,  but  there  is  a  dif- 
ference of  attitude. 

Mark  E.  Solomon:  No. 


QUESTION:  Do  you  think  you  could  take  on  some  of  the  added  responsibilities  that  some 
of  the  older  students  have  (family  obligations,  work,  etc.)? 

Todd  J.  Caruso:  //  would  be  rough. 

Christopher  R.  Kline:  It  would  take  quite  a  while,  but  I  think  I  could  get  used  to  it. 

Cathy  L.  Milunic:  /  admire  those  guys,  but  I  have  a  hard  enough  time  getting  my 
work  done  now. 

Marc  E.  Lovell:  //  would  be  additional  stress  and  it  would  complicate  my  studies. 

Christopher  M.  Firmstone:  No  -  my  studies  are  enough. 

Jeffrey  J.  Stroehmann:  Yes.  I  don't  think  that's  a  lot  of  work. 

Kenneth  J.  Sathonary:  No. 

Mark  E.  Solomon:  No. 


18     •     SPOTLIGHT    •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Question:  Do  yoo  think  the  older  stodents  have  any  advantages  in  applying  prior  ex- 
periences to  school? 

Todd  J.  Caruso:  ll  depends  on  Iheir  curriculum. 

Mark  A.  Leshock:  Their  work  experience  probably  helps  Ihem  out  a  lot. 

Christopher  R.  Kline:  Yes.  In  my  field,  they  do. 

Cathy  L.  Milunic:  //  all  depends  on  what  kind  of  work  they  are  into. 

Marc  E.  Lovell:  ...As  far  as  carrying  out  their  responsibilities  of  school  work. 

Christopher  M.  Firmstone:  Yes.  I  would  say  so. 

Jeffrey  J.  Stroehmann:  Yes. 

Kenneth  J.  Sathonary:  Yes. 

Robert  J.  Roy:  Yes,  I  think  so. 

Mark  E.  Solomon:  Yes:  Mainly  their  maturity. 


SKKVIllNC  LANDING  GEAR  are  second-vtar  avaialion  sludeoCs  Brian  M    Murrat   of  Mifninville  Jeremi 
V  Black,  (ll  Wtalusing,  and  Richard  M    Mulihlir,  (if  Delaware  Wa(er  Gap    |SEE  ST(>R>    PAOt  111] 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


Comments 

BY 

Faculty 


Question;  Besides  age,  do  yon  see  any  other  differences  between  the  older  and  younger 
students? 

James  E.  LOGUE,  associate  professor  of  English:  Yes.  For  the  most  pari,  the  older  stu- 
dent seems  to  be  more  motivated  to  do  the  work  of  a  college  student  -  which  is  probably  due 
to  their  experience. 

Ronald  L.  Rock,  professor  of  business  administration:  Generally,  the  older  students 
have  their  goals  established  and  they  know  what  they  are  seeking. 

Richard  Sahn,  instructor  of  sociology  and  psychology:  The  older  student  seems  to  be 
more  interested  in  the  subject  matter  of  the  courses  and  not  just  concerned  about  the  credits 
and  grades. 

Jackie  E.  Welliver,  instructor  of  industrial  drafting:  Yes.  The  older  students  know 
what  they  are  going  for  and,  unlike  the  younger  students,  they  know  what  to  expect. 

Fred  C.  Schaefer,  assistant  professor  of  graphic  arts:  Yes.  The  older  student  seems 
more  serious  about  school  -  especially  the  veterans. 

William  G.  Rummings,  instructor  of  building  construction:   Yes:  Prior  experience. 

Thomas  C.  Shoff,  counselor:  Attitude.  The  older  student  has  life  experience  and  bet- 
ter judgement.  They  know  why  they're  here. 

G.  Robert  Kissbll,  professor  of  history  and  government:  No,  I  don't  see  any  dif- 
ferences other  than  the  maturity  that  older  students  bring  into  the  scene. 

Patrick  D.  Murphy,  assistant  professor  of  advertising  art:  Yes,  there  is  a  definite  dif- 
ference in  the  experiences  of  the  older  and  younger  students. 


SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Question:  Do  you  IhlDk  both  groups  of  sludenls'gel  treated  the  same? 

James  E.  LOGUE:    Yes,  I  Ihink  so. 

Ronald  L.  Rock:    Yes. 

Richard  Sahn:  Yes,  but  I  think  the  students  that  I  have  had  just  out  of  high  school 
tend  to  treat  the  older  students  differently.  I  think  they  are  kind  ofleary  of  the  older  students 
because  the  older  students  are  a  little  like  their  parents  and  instructors  themselves. 

Jackie  E.  Welliver:  Yes.  I  try  to  treat  them  the  same  although  sometimes  it  might 
seem  as  though  I  treat  the  older  students  differently  because  they  are  closer  to  my  age  and  can 
relate  to  a  period  of  time  with  me. 

Fred  C.  SCHAEFER:    Speaking  for  myself,  I  don't  see  any  difference  in  the  treatment. 

William  G.  Rummings:    Yes 

Thomas  C.  Shoff:  A^o.  As  much  as  professors  would  like  to  think  they  treat  people  the 
same  and  as  much  as  they  try,  never-the-less,  when  you  see  a  person  with  a  more  mature  at- 
titude who  is  willing  to  do  the  work  that  you  are  telling  them  to  do...  then  that  person  will 
probably  get  more  attention. 

G.  Robert  Kissell:     Yes.  Otherwise,  I'd  have  to  fish  for  an  answer. 

Patrick  D.  Murphy:  /  think  they  all  get  treated  the  same  as  far  as  general  lecture.  I 
think  there  is  a  different  level  of  communication  on  individual  bases. 

Question:  how  do  you  feel  about  having  older  stodents  in  your  classroom? 

James  E.  Logue:    /  enjoy  the  older  students. 

Ronald  L.  Rock:  /  have  older  students  in  my  night  classes  and  I  really  enjoy  them  in 
terms  of  the  experiences  they  have  had. 

Richard  Sahn:  I  feel  comfortable  with  older  students  because  -  outside  of  being  close 
to  their  age  group  --  they  bring  more  experiences  into  the  course. 

Jackie  E.  Welliver:  /  like  teaching  all  students,  but  older  stuents  seem  to  want  more 
information  than  the  younger  students. 

William  G.  Rummings:  /  like  working  with  all  students. 

Thomas  C.  Shoff:  There  is  more  interaction  with  the  younger  and  older  students  and, 
therefore,  it  makes  a  more  interesting  class. 

G.  Robert  Kissell:  /  enjoy  the  older  students  because  they  bring  a  new  insight  into  the 
classroom  and  they  are  motivated. 

Patrick  D.  Murphy:  /  enjoy  older  students.  Maybe  it's  because  there  is  more  com- 
monality. 


Monday.  April  23,  1984 


Question:  Do  you  Ihlnk  more  older  people  ire  coming  back  to  school? 

Richard  Sahn:  Yes.  At  least  at  the  Williamsport  Area  Community  College,  there 
seems  to  be  more  older  people  coming  back  to  school. 

Jackie  E.  Welliver:  Yes,  I  think  so. 

FRED  C.  Schaefer:  Yes,  I  do  see  more  older  people  coming  back  to  school. 

William  G.  Rummings:  /  did  see  more  coming  back  for  a  while,  but  there  doesn't 
seem  to  be  as  many  anymore. 

Thomas  C.  Shoff:  Definitely.  Demographics  tell  us  that  there  are  fewer  students  in  the 
high  schools  and  fewer  kids  of  thai  age,  so  postsecondary  institutions  have  to  go  out  and  look 
for  other  populations.  The  major  group  includes  those  people  who  went  through  the  school 
system  more  than  five  years  ago. 

Patrick  D.  WOfm:  I  really  haven't  noticed.  I've  always  had  about  the  same  propor- 
tion of  students. 


Get  the  high-tech  career  1 

you  want  when  you  want  it. 


The  Navy's  Delayed  Entry  Program  can  ^ 
guarantee  you  the  training  you  want,  when  you  | 
want  it.  Qualify  and  you  choose  the  Iraining  you  i 
want  from  over  60  career  areas.  Then  you  may  j 
have  up  to  one  full  year  before  you  report.  That  ; 
gives  you  time  I"  do  what  you  want  to  do  --  finish  I 
school,  Iravel,  or  just  relax.  When  you  begin  the  i 
Navy  adventure,  you  begin  with  training  in  ; 
sophisticated  fields  like  computers,  electronics,  i 
nuclear  power  or  communications.  Then  you  gel  ! 
miportani  on-the-job  experience  that  lets  you  \ 
become  a  master  at  the  career  you  chose  while  : 
you  Iravel  lo  places  like  Greece.  Spain  and  Hong  i 
Kong.  To  find  out  more  about  the  advantages  of 
the  Navy's  Delayed  Entry  Program,  see  your 
guidance  counselor  or  call  your  local  Navy 
represenlalive.     1-800-692-7823 


ll  You  can  learn  tomorrow's 
I  technologies  in  today's  Navy. 


IT'S  NOTJUSTAJX:^^ 
rrSANAD^NTURE. 


22     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


College  of  the  future... 

This  photograph  of  a  plan  for  the  future  was  taken  by  Thomas  H.  Long,  of  The  SPOTLIGHT 
staff.  Ill  conjunction  with  his  interview  with  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breiider,  College  president  which 
appears  on  the  next  page.  ' 

COMPLETED  CAMPUS  PLAN  key  is  as  follows:  Building  1,  the  Academic  Cenler:  2 
Lifelong  Education  Cenler;  3,  Learning  Resources  Cenler;  4,  Building  Trades  Center-  5 
Gymnasrum;  6,  Technical  Trades  Center;  7,  Automotive  Trades  Center;  13,  Advanced 
Technology  &  Allied  Health  Center;  14,  Professional  Development  Center;  15,  Diesel 
Mechanics  Center;  16,  Student  Center;  17,  Fine  Arts  Center;  18,  College  Service  Center, 
and  19,  Metal  Trades  Center. 

The  light  grey  structures  are  existing  structures.  The  dark  grey  structures  are  new  struc- 
tures. Pedestrian  walkways,  roadways,  and  landscaping  areas  are  self-explainatory 

The  completed  plan  was  drawn-up  by  Hayes,  Large,  Suckling,  Fruth  &  Wedge  Ar- 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


Major  College  expansion 
will  happen  in  next  decade 

By  Thomas  H.  Long,  Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Over  the  course  of  the  next  10  years,  the  College  is  slated  to  undergo  many  physical 
changes  as  well  as  academic  advancements  in  order  to  keep  it  competitive  in  today's  world  of 
work. 

According  to  Dr.  Robert  L.  Breuder,  College  president,  a  master  plan,  with  a  projected 
cost  of  approximately  $36.5  million,  was  designed  and  drawn  up  by  the  College  architectural 
firm  of  Hayes,  Large,  Suckling,  Fruth,  and  Wedge.  This  plan  was  presented  at  the  April  Col- 
lege Board  of  Trustees  meeting. 

Among  those  things  to  be  updated  in  the  near  future  is  the  Academic  Center  'where  a  com- 
pletely new  electrical  system  is  to  be  installed. 

In  addition,  the  completion  of  the  closing-in  of  the  Technical  Trades  buildings  is  planned. 

Dr.  Breuder  said  with  the  new  space  in  these  buildings  will  house  the  programmable  logic 
curriculum,  secondary  and  faculty  offices  as  well  as  classrooms,  storage  space,  and  other  cur- 
riculum facilities. 

Demololion  this  summer 

Considerations  for  the  distant  future  include  the  possibility  of  a  fine  arts  center  to  be 
located  where  the  administration  building  is  now  standing.  That  building  will  be  demolished 
this  summer,  Dr.  Breuder  said.  All  administration  will  be  moved  into  the  new  Lifelong  Educa- 
tion Center. 

The  Advanced  Technology  and  Health  Services  building  will  be  started  early  next  year, 
with  a  scheduled  completion  time  of  summer  1987.  This  new  structure  will  house  many  pro- 
grams that  now  are  limited  for  space  in  the  Academic  Center  as  well  as  several  new  programs. 
It  is  expected  to  accomodate  about  500  more  students  than  the  College  has  space  for  now,  add- 
ed Dr.  Breuder. 

Street  changes  planned 

Low  on  the  list  of  priorities,  he  said,  for  the  Stage  3  building  program,  but  still  scheduled, 
is  the  construction  of  a  football  field,  a  baseball  diamond,  about  five  tennis  courts,  and  possi- 
ble a  basketball  court,  to  be  located  behind  the  proposed  site  of  new  diesel  facility,  near  the 
Automotive  Trades  Center. 

Overall  plans  for  campus  changes  include  the  "closing  in"  of  Susquehanna  Street  in 

order  to  make  it  a  pedestrian  walkway,  said  Dr.  Breuder.  Another  street  will  be  put  in,  beyond 

the  campus,  on  the  west  side.   Eventually,  a  street  running  east-west  will  connect  Park  Street 

and  the  new  road.   It  will  be  located  beyond  the  railroad  tracks  at  the  south  end  of  campus. 

'Green  areas'  established 

A  "green  area"  will  be  added  near  the  site  of  the  Health  Services  building  and  will  be 
complete  with  walkways.  Located  to  the  east  of  the  green  area  will,  hopefully,  be  a  new 
physical  plant  and  security  building,  incorporated  into  one  unit,  according  to  Thomas  C. 
Large,  architect. 

The  campus,  in  its  completed  phase,  is  projected  to  be  finished  within  the  next  lO-year 
period.  The  figures  for  the  advancements  are  at  today's  prices.  However,  for  every  year  this 
plan  is  delayed,  it  will  cost  an  additional  eight  percent,  to  be  added  to  the  $36.5  million.  Dr. 
Breuder  stated. 

He  added  that  there  will  still  be  a  matter  of  architects'  fees  as  well  as  other  expenses  that 
cannot  yet  be  predicted,  but  he  said  he  is  positive  about  the  future  of  the  College,  "as  a  viable 
and  competitive  institution". 


24     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 

Involvement,  concern:   key  words 
in  life  of  award-winning  professor 

By  Gregory  W.  Huff 

Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Editor's  Note: 

Ms.  Veronica  M.  Muzic  is  a  professor  of  English  at  the  College  and  the  first  recipient  of 
the  Master  Teacher  Award  introduced  at  the  College  in  1982. 

A  graduate  of  College  Misericordia,  Ms.  Muzic  received  a  master's  degree  in  English 
from  Bucknell  University  and  has  done  postgraduate  work  at  several  universities  including 
the  University  of  New  Hampshire,  Purdue  University,  Texas  AiM  and  West  Chester  Univer- 
sity, where  she  is  a  Fellow  of  the  Pennsylvania  Writing  Project. 

Ms.  Muzic,  a  native  of  Harrisburg,  is  a  resident  of  South  Williamsport. 

How  would  one  expect  a  respected  English  professor  to  react  to  becoming  the  first  reci- 
pient of  the  College's  Master  Teacher  Award? 

How  about  with  a  fear  of  falling!  Surprisingly,  perhaps,  that  was  the  feeling  described  by 
Ms.  Veronica  M,  Muzic  upon  her  selection  for  the  award  in  1982. 

The  professor,  who  admits  to  a  touch  of  acrophobia  (a  fear  of  high  places),  explained,  "I 
was  seated  at  the  top  of  the  bleachers,  on  stage,  at  commencement  exercises  in  (Bardo)  Gym, 
and,  my  first  thought  was  that  I  would  tumble  down  the  steps  on  way  to  receiving  it." 

She  pressed  lightly  on  the  edge  of  her  desk  and  proceeded  in  an  even  tone.  "My  family," 
she  offered,  "was  visiting  and  1  arrived  home  later  than  expected  for  supper." 

"Following  supper,"  she  recounts  smiling,  "phone  calls  kept  interrupting  a  card  game  we 
were  engaged  in,  (she  feigns  a  frown)  prompting  an  occasional  unceremonious  remark  from  my 
father." 

"The  award  itself,"  she  said,  pouring  a  can  of  pineapple  juice  into  an  ice-filled  cup,  "was 
very  gratifying." 

Teaching  Award  demands  dedication  to  excellence 

Initiated  in  1982,  the  Master  Teacher  Award  is  the  higher  of  two  presentations  (the  other 
being  the  Excellence  in  Teaching  Awards)  offered  annually  at  commencement  exercises  by  the. 
College  as  recognition  for  distinguished  service  in  a  variety  of  areas. 

Eligibility  requires  at  least  three  years  of  successful  service  to  the  College,  but  more  deep- 
ly, it  demands  a  commitment,  in  general,  to  the  enrichment  of  the  entire  College  community. 

Nominations  can  be  initiated  by  any  segment  of  the  College  community  bearing  knowledge 
of  the  nominee's  qualities. 

Now  beginning  her  16th  year  at  the  College,  the  personable  teacher,  committeewoman  and 
women's  rights  advocate  reports  noticing  little  discernible  decline  in  general  student  aptitude 
over  the  years. 

However,  students  have,  she  observed,  altered  their  priorities.  "There  are  obvious 
changes  in  values  and  priorities,"  she  said,  noting  that,  unlike  students  in  the  past,  "today's 
students  tend  to  be  more  concerned  about  jobs  whereas  in  the  past,  attention  seemed  to  focus 
on  intellectual  development." 

"The  institution  itself,"  she  added,  "is  a  marvelous  place  to  work;  as  an  employee  I'm 
given  the  opportunity  to  explore  my  interests." 

Hectic  schedule 

Apart  from  instruction  in  two  specialized  courses  -  Women  in  the  Political  Process  and 
Women  in  Literature  -  the  tireless  rhetorican  instructs  classes  in  Advanced  Composition  and 
English  Composition  II.  The  latter  is  "team  taught"  (a  program  whereby  students  receive  in- 
struction from  more  than  one  individual)  with  colleague  Dr.  Peter  B.  Dumanis  ~  an  experience 
she  terms  "pure  pleasure". 

"I  have  learned  more  than  I  have  taught,"  she  said  modestly,  referring  to  the  team- 
[PLEASE  CONTINUE  READING  ON  NEXT  PAOE] 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     • 

Involvement/concern;  key  words 

[CONTINUED  FROM  PRECEDING  PAGE] 
teaching  concept. 

Commitment  to  principles  of  involvement  does  not  end,  however,  at  the  academic  level  for 
the  Dauphin  County  native.  The  amicable  professor  is  immersed  in  a  range  of  committee 
memberships  on,  and  beyond,  the  boundaries  of  the  College. 

On  campus,  Ms.  Muzic  serves  on  the  Staff  Development  Committee,  Instructional  Evalua- 
tion Committee,  and  the  International  Education  Committee. 

In  addition  to  having  served  as  past  administrator  of  the  Developmental  Studies  Program 
and  ACT  101  ("COPing")  --  a  program  designed  to  provide  counseling  and  tutorial  services 
for  qualified  students  --  she  currently  serves  as  co-adviser  for  the  Women's  Forum,  a  support 
organization  which  also  sponsors  the  Women's  Week  held  annually  at  the  College. 

Undauted  by  the  rigors  of  these  responsibilities,  Ms.  Muzic  chairs  the  Human  Resources 
Area  Committee  and  is  a  member  of  the  Student  Government  Association  Advisory  Board. 

Further,  she  serves  on  the  ACT  101  Advisory  Board  at  the  College. 

Off  campus,  her  activities  extend  to  participation  in  the  Pennsylvania  Partnership,  in 
association  with  the  Pennsylvania  Commission  for  Women,  which  is  an  organization,  she  ex- 
plains, whose  goal  it  is  to  establish  educational  programs  across  the  state  to  encourage  women 
to  become  more  aware  of  the  political  process  and  to  become  more  involved  in  that  process. 

Additionally,  she  is  on  the  board  of  the  League  of  Women  Voters  in  Lycoming  County 
and  is  presently  serving  on  a  committee  to  assist  in  the  selection  of  a  congressional  page  for  the 
17th  Congressional  District. 

Alluding  to  politics,  Ms.  Muzic  concedes  a  fascination  with  the  political  arena  and  con- 
fesses an  interest  in  perhaps  someday  seeking  political  office  at  a  local  level.  "...But  only", 
she  hastens  to  add,  "if  I  have  the  opportunity  to  effect  good.  I  wouldn't  want  to  be  just  a 
figurehead  or  a  rubberstamp,"  she  said  flatly. 

'Don'l  buy  or  apply  stereotyping' 

Perhaps,  however,  she  is  most  singulariy  intrigued  by  the  quest  of  women  in  this  country 
for  more  equalized  rights.  She  is  an  avid  propronent  of  the  ERA  (Equal  Rights  Amendment)  - 
"essentially  a  matter  of  interpretation".   She  abhors  sexism  in  any  situation. 

"People,"  she  states,  "should  work  up  to  their  own  potential  and  not  be  hamstrung  by 
stereotypical  thinking." 

What  can  women  to  do  improve  their  situation?  "Essentially,"  she  begins  thoughtfully, 
"they  should  become  more  knowledgeable  about  economics  and  the  political  system..." 

A  phone  rings  in  the  office  and,  muttering,  she  moves  to  answer  it. 

Returning,  she  scans  her  desk  and  collects  some  papers.  "Don't  'buy'  or  apply  stereotyp- 
ing to  any  gender,"  she  advises  before  departing. 


'Where's  The  Beef?" 

Try  our  all-beef 
Cheeseburg  Sub 


30  cents  otf 

whole  Cheeseburg  Sub 

with  this  ad 


Wooly's   Place 

Take  a  few  extra  steps  for  fine  foods. 
(Dally  Specials) 

234  Park  SI.  Phone:  326-7983 
Open:   7  a.m.  'til  7  p.m. 


26     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Did  you  ever  wonder 

who  looks  at  placement  tests? 

Developmental  Studies  staff  does 


By  Donna  M.  Barnelt 
Of  The  SPOTLIGHT  Staff 

Remember  the  placement  test  you  took  before 
you  started  classes  at  the  College?  Did  you  ever 
wonder  who  saw  them  or  how  well  you  did  on  it? 
R.  Dean  Foster,  director  of  developementai  studies 
explained  how  the  results  of  these  tests  are  used. 
"Developmental  courses  are  required  for  some 
students.  The  results  of  the  placement  test  usually 
determines  if  a  student  needs  developmental  courses 
or  not  and  which  courses  he  will  need,"  said 
Foster. 

"If  we  feel  there's  a  mistake  of  some  kind  with 
the  results  --  say  the  student  misnumbered  the  test 
while  he  was  taking  it  -  then  I'll  review  high  school 
transcripts,  SAT's  (Scholastic  Aptitude  Tests)  and 
possibly  re-test  the  student,"  said  Foster. 
Has  three  sections 

Developmental  Studies  is  a  program  designed 
to  help  students  with  deficiencies  in  their  academic 
skills  and  it  is  broken  into  three  sections:  the  Act 
101/COPing  program,  tuloring,and  developmental 
courses,  according  to  Foster. 

The  Act  lOl/COPing  program  was  legislated  in 
1971,  and  was  funded  at  the  College  for  the  first 
time  in  1978-79,  by  the  Higher  Educational  Equal 
Opportunity  Program  to  assist  students  who,  due  to 
poor  performance  on  standardized  tests,  inadequate 
high  school  preparation,  or  both,  would  normally 
not  be  successful,  according  to  information  provid- 
ed by  Foster. 

On  70  campuses 

The  Act  101  program,  known  as  COPing 
"College  Opportunity  Programming  ~  is  active  on 
70  campuses  in  the  state. 

Academic  and  economic  eligibility  re- 
quirements exist  for  those  students  who  take  pail  in 
the  COPing  program.  Academic  eligibility  is  based 
on  placement  test  results.  Any  kind  of  educational 
weakness  can  be  foreseen  as  eligibility  -  a  high 
school  grade  below  80  percent,  the  absence  of  a 
high  school  diploma,  or  a  long  absence  from 
school,  for  example. 

Economic  eligibility  requires  the  student  to 
have  a  family  adjusted  income  below  or  adjusted  to 
$15,000.  Still,  some  students  who  don't  meet  either 
requirement  can  receive  some  COPing  services,  ac- 
cording to  the  information. 

Two  supportive  services  work  in  conjunction 


with  the  COPing  program.  These  are  tutoring  and 
counseling. 

Tutoring  in  the  COPing  program  focuses  on  a 
study  skills  approach  in  content  and  curriculum 
courses.  Counseling  takes  place  in  the  form  of 
group  or  individual  meetings.  This  service  includes 
academic  advising  in  course  selection,  assistance  in 
career  planning  and  personal  financial  counseling. 
James  A.  Bryan  is  the  counselor  for  the 
developmental  studies  program,  according  to 
Foster. 

Alternatives  offered 

A  non-required  summer  program  is  also  of- 
fered to  COPing  students.  Two  alternatives  are  of- 
fered in  the  summer  program.  The  first  choice  in- 
volves the  student  taking  two  developmental  courses 
~  math,  English,  or  reading.  This  session  begins  in 
middle  to  late  June  and  lasts  eight  weeks. 

The  second  alternative  is  for  the  student  to 
enroll  in  a  shorter,  non-credit  program.  This  pro- 
gram lasts  four  weeks. 

For  two  weeks,  students  attend  English, 
reading,  and  math  classes  according  to  the 
developmental  courses  that  are  required  as  a  result 
of  placement  test  results. 

The  students  then  attend  classes  in  their  cur- 
riculum such  as  computer  science,  automotive, 
machine  shop  or  electronics,  according  to  Foster. 
Available  to  all 

The  tutoring  center,  coordinated  by  Ms.  Diana 
L.  Kuhns,  is  located  in  the  Learning  Resources 
Center  and  is  available  to  all  students. 

Tutoring  in  standard  courses  -  English,  math, 
accounting,  physics  and  two  recent  additions  ~ 
chemistry  and  circuit  analysis  is  available, 

Technical  tutoring,  in  which  the  tutor  is 
available  in  each  respective  lab  as  well  as  the  tutor- 
ing center,  includes  a  variety  of  courses:  architec- 
ture, food  and  hospitality,  shorthand,  electronics, 
numerical  control  machinery,  automatic  screw 
machining,  forestry,  plumbing,  computer  science, 
engineering/drafting  and  civil  engineering 
technology,  according  to  Ms.  Kuhns. 
Based  on  test  results 

The  third  section,  developmental  courses,  is 
based  upon  placement  test  results.  Students  enroll- 
ing in  certificate  programs  who  are  deficient  in 

[PLEASE  CONTINUE  READING  ON  NEXT  PAGE] 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     27 


ICONTINUED  FROM  PRECEDING  PAGE] 
reading  will  be  required  to  take  a  special  reading 
course,  RDG  010.  This  course,  which  meets  three 
times  a  week,  permits  students  to  gain  skills 
necessary  to  read  textbooks. 

Certificate  program  students  who  have  a 
weakness  in  math  will  schedule  MTH  001.  This 
math  class  gives  instruction  in  the  student  in  basic 
arithmetic,  according  to  Foster. 

Students  enrolled  in  degree  programs  may  be 
required  to  take  ENL  Oil,  MTH  002,  or  RDG  101 
if  their  placement  test  results  are  deficient.  ENL 
Oil  is  a  course  in  basic  writing;  MTH  002,  basic 
and  intermediate  algebra  and  RDG  101  strengthens 
reading  and  study  skills,  said  Foster. 

CHD  (Career  and  Human  Development)  100  is 
required  for  either  certificate  or  degree  progeam 
students  whose  placement  test  shows  a  weakness  in 
any  two  academic  skills.  This  is  an  eight-week 
course  designed  to  help  students  with  career  ex- 
ploration, and  to  improve  decision  making  and 
values  clarification  skills,  he  added. 
Participants  optimistic 
Both  staff  and  students  involved  in  the 
developmental  studies  program  are  very  optimistic 
about  it. 

Luigi  Pellegrino,  aviation  technology  student 
from  South  Williamsport,  said  he  wasn't  too  happy 
about  being  assigned  to  the  program  at  first.  "I 
didn't  like  developmental  studies  at  first.  I  had  too 
many  things  to  do.  Then  I  realized,  it  was 
helping." 

Pellegrino  also  said  he  learned  study  and 
notetaking  with  developemtnal  studies.  It  really 
helps,"  Pellegrino  said.  "You  really  hate  it  all 
times,  but  then  you're  glad  you  did  it." 
'Staff  is  caring' 
Ms.  Karen  M.  Fidler,  floriculture  student  from 
Pine  Grove  saw  her  situation  a  little  differently.  "I 
figured  I'd  have  to  take  developmental  studies 
because  my  spelling  and  reading  weren't  too 
good,"  she  said. 

Ms.  Fidler  also  learned  the  use  of  study  skills 

and  how  to  apply  them  to  different  classes.   "The 

staff  is  caring.  You  just  stop  in  and  they'll  help.  If 

Jim  (counselor  James  A.  Bryan)  sees  you  in  the 

hall,  he'll  stop  and  talk.     1  wouldn't  change 

anything  about  this  program,"  she  said. 

Program  is  'effective' 

"I  figured  it  (developmental  studies)  would 

help  refresh  my  memory  since  it's  been  four  years 

since  I've  been  in  school,"  explained  Ms.  Lisa  E. 

Hoover,  clerical  studies  student  from  Montgomery. 

She  described  the  program  as  "effective"  and 


Did  you  ever  wonder 


"confidence  building"  and  added  "I  wouldn't 
change  anything  (about  the  developmental  studies 
program).  I  couldn't  learn  any  more  in  two 
weeks,"  Ms.  Hoover  said. 

Foster  also  feels  that  the  program  is  effective. 
The  graduation  rate  for  students  in  the  developmen- 
tal studies  program  is  70  percent,  "which  is  as  good 
as  the  College  average,"  according  to  Foster. 
However,  he  feels  he  would  make  only  one  change 
in  the  program.  "I  would  make  developmental 
courses  more  related  to  the  student's  field  of 
study,"  he  said. 

He  also  believes  that  the  Peer  Assistance  Pro- 
gram is  beneficial.  "The  main  job  of  the  peer  assis- 
tant is  to  keep  students  in  touch  with  the 
developmental  studies  program  and  do  some  tutor- 
ing," Foster  said.  "II  provides  a  double  contact 
with  the  students.  Jim  (counselor  James  A.  Bryan) 
sees  most  of  the  students." 

Kenneth  T.  Bader,  computer  science  student 
from  Peckville,  and  Susan  L.  Hughes,  dental 
hygiene  student  from  Williamsport,  are  the  peer 
assistants  for  the  program. 

Comanche  engine 

jCOI^INUED  FROM  PAGE  I0| 

Doebler  suggested  that  the  students  could  use 
the  learning  experience  in  the  classroom.  The  avia- 
tion students  do  the  annual  inspection  on  the 
airplane  and  other  maintenance  that  should  be 
done,  he  stated. 

After  the  engine  is  rebuilt,  the  second-year 
aviation  stiidents  will  place  the  engine  back  in  the 
airplane. 

Four  second-year  students  worked  on  this  pro- 
ject. The  students  are  under  the  instruction  of 
Robert  L.  Norton,  instructor,  aviation.  The  project 
will  be  completed  by  next  Monday,  April  30. 

Summer  hours  scheduled 
to  begin  on  May  14 

Summer  hours  will  be  in  effect  at  the  Col- 
lege beginning  Monday,  May  14,  and  ending  Fri- 
day, Aug.  17. 

College  offices  will  be  open  Monday 
through  Thursday  from  7:30  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  and 
on  Fridays,  from  7:30  a.m.  to  1  p.m. 

The  Center  for  Lifelong  Education  will  also 
be  open  until  9  p.m.  Tuesday  through  Thursday 
during  the  summer. 


28     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1 984 


Students  receive  trophies  in  IM  bowling 


Twelve  students  have  won  trophies  for 
special  recognition  as  a  result  of  the  intramural 
bowling  activities. 

These  students  and  other  league  members 
may  pick  up  their  awards  tomorrow  at  4  p.m.  at 
the  ABC  Lanes,  according  to  the  Lanes' 
management. 

Those  who  will  receive  awards  are: 

The  members  of  the  championship  team, 
CU-JO:  Dennis  Rosato,  electrical  occupations 
student  from  Hazlelon;  Dean  D.  Mitchell,  elec- 
trical occupations  student  from  Montrose; 
Thomas  R.  Mears,  electrical  technology  student 
from  Canton,  and  Franklin  J.  Seber,  electrical 
technology  student  from  Scranton. 

The  men's  high  average  award  recipient  for 
the  semester  is  Seber  who  had  a  217  average. 
The  women's  high  average  winner  is  Denise  M. 


King  with  a  143  average. 

The  high  series  winners  are  Mark  E. 
Reamsnyder,  business  management  student  from 
Williamsport,  who  rolled  a  high  741  series  for 
the  men  and  Denise  M.  McNeil,  computer 
science  student  from  Williamsport,  who  tallied  a 
465  high  series  for  the  women. 

The  men's  high  singles  award  belongs  to 
Myles  S.  Murray,  carpentry  construction  student 

from  Wayne,  N.J.,  who  bowled  a  258  game. 

The  women's  high  singles  winner,  Cindy  M. 

Cekovich,     floriculture     student     from 

Mechanicsburg,  rolled  a  199  game. 

The  students  receiving  awards  for  the  most 

improved    average    are    David    C.    Fetzer, 

agribusiness  student  from  Woodward,  and  Lori 

M.    Lane,    journalism    student    from    South 

Williamsport. 


Final  results  of  IM 
bowling  standings 

CU-JO  has  captured  the  title  of  the  best 
over-all  team  for  the  intramural  bowling  pro- 
gram. 

Those  that  will  be  recognized  for  being  on 
the  number  one  team  are  Franklin  J.  Seber,  elec- 
trical technology  student  from  Scranton;  Dennis 
Rosato,  electrical  technology  student  from 
Hazleton;  Dean  D.  Mitchell,  electrical  occupa- 
tions student  from  Montrose,  and  Thomas  R. 
Mears,  electrical  technology  student  from  Can- 
ton. 

Other  team  standings,  according  to  records 
provided  by  ABC  Bowling  Lanes: 

Team  standings 

Team  Wins  Losses 

1.  CU-JO  32  10 

2.  Head  Pins  27  15 

3.  Boneheads  25'/!  16'/2 

4.  Destroyers  24  18 

5.  Dew  Crew  24  18 

6.  High  Rollers  24  18 

7.  Cillo-Etts  22  20 

8.  Mad  Hatters  21  21 

9.  FKntstones  16  26 

10.  Unpredictables  14'/2  27/2 

11.  Bandits  12  30 

12.  No  Names  10  32 


Intramural 

Sports 

Schedule 


Today 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:15  to  7:15  p.m. 

Electronics      Club      volleyball 
tournament...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Open  gym...  8-30  to  10  p.m. 
Tomorrow 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:15  to  7:15  p.m. 

Electronics      Club      volleyball 
tournament...  6:30  to  8:30  p.m. 

Open  gym...  8:30  to  10  p.m. 
Wednesday,  April  25 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:15  to  7:15  p.m. 

Open  gym...  7:30  to  10  p.m. 
Thursday,  April  26 

Weight  room...  4  to  10  p.m. 

Softball  tournament...  4:15  to  7:15  p.m. 

Professional  disk  show...  6:30  to  8:30 
p.m. 

Open  gym...  8:30  to  10  p.m. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Summer  programs  to  be  offered  for  children 


The  Center  for  Lifelong  Education  will  offer 
summer  programs  for  children,  according  to 
Mrs.  Carol  F.  Kaufman,  coordinator  of  campus- 
based  activities. 

Programs  in  art,  computer  BASIC,  clown- 
ing, computer  text  editing,  creative  problem 
solving,  photography,  storybook  writing  and  a 
"young  miss"  workshop  among  others  will  be 
offered,  according  to  Mrs.  Kaufman. 

"Not  all  programs  are  offered  for  all 
grades,"  said  Mrs.  Kaufman.  "The  drawing 
class  is  for  sixth  graders  and  up;  the  'young 
miss'  workshop  is  aimed  basically  at  young 
teenagers,  and  the  text-editing  will  be  a  weekly 
course  mainly  for  teenagers." 

Mrs.  Kaufman  also  said  that  an  advanced 


basic  computer  programming  class  will  be  of- 
fered at  the  end  of  the  summer.  "We  ran  five, 
camps  last  summer  for  100  kids  in  basic  com- 
puter programming  alone,"  said  Mrs.  Kaufman. 

"What  we  try  to  do  is  offer  classes  that  the 
student  doesn't  get  in  his  normal  concentration 
in  a  regular  school,"  Mrs.  Kaufman  said. 

People  interested  in  the  one-week  camps 
may  call  Mrs.  Kaufman  in  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education  at  326-3727  or  College  Ext. 
231,  she  said. 


KAWASAKI  FOR  SALE 
For  sale:      Kawasaki  LTDIOOO.     With 
Kerker  pipes.   $2,600.   Call  478-2477. 


Creative  Kitchen 

Monday,  April  23 

Cream  of  Chicken  Rossi 

Beef  and  Broccoli  (stir  fry) 

Hot  and  Fluffy  Rice 

Tomatoes  Vinaigrette 

Lettuce 

One-Half  Deviled  Egg 

Dinner  Rolls  with  Butter 

Gingered  Kiwi  Fruit 

Frozen  Chocolate  Mousse 

Cheesecake 


Wednesday,  April  25 

The  Creative  Kitchen  dinner  will  not  be 
served  this  evening  since  the  Student  Recogni- 
tion Banquet  will  be  in  progress. 

Thursday,  April  26 

Hot  and  Sour  Soup 
Amber  Chicken 

Rice 

Mixed  Stir  Fry 

Chinese  Cucumber  Salad 

Kiwi  Pie 

Coffee,  tea,  iced  tea,  milk  or  water  served 
with  all  meals.  Meals  cost  S3.  Soups  served 
with  homemade  rolls.  Desserts  are  a  la  carte. 


SUMMER 
GRADUATES 

Prospective  August  Graduates  may  petition  to  graduate 

as  soon  as  they  are  officiaUy  registered 

(paid)  for  summer  scliool. 

Last  day  for  August  graduates  to  petition 

is 

June  22 

To  petition,  go  to  the  Records  Office  in  Academic  Center. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Where  would  we  be 

Mrs.     Beatrice     E.     Hilliard, 
^      secretary  to  Dr.  Robert  G.  Bowers,  ex- 
s4  eculive  assistant  for  internal  affairs: 
,     "Her  consistant  excellence  and  will- 
ji  ingness  to  always  go  beyond  wbat  is  re- 
quired makes  ber  an  exceptional  in- 
stitutional asset. ..Any  success  tbat  I 
have  bad  is  a  direct  result  of  tbe  sup- 
port and  energy  of  this  assistant  and 
friend." 


Mrs.  Bonnie  M.  Powell,  secretary 
to  Dr.  James  E.  Middleton,  director  of 
integrated  studies:  "She  deserves  a  big 
share  of  tbe  credit  for  any  division  suc- 
cess. Her  professional  approach  and 
understanding  style  have  made  many 
staff  and  student  problems  disappear." 

Photos  and  lexl... 
-by  Mary  I.  Pease 

Outstanding,  enthusiastic,  dedicated, 
and  consciencious...  These  four  words 
describe  our  secretaries,  who  unselfishly 
give  their  time  and  attention  everyday  to 


Ms.  Lori  A.  Shoemaker,  secretary 
to  Dr.  Donald  B.  Bergerstock,  business 
and  computer  science  division:  "(She) 
displays  much  enthusiasm,  initialive 
and  dedication  to  her  job." 


Monday.  April  23,  1984 


without  secretaries? 

Mrs.  Marian  E.  Blackburn, 
secretary  (o  Mrs.  Barbara  A.  Danko, 
direclor  of  Lifelong  Educallon:  "She 
is  a  consciencious  and  dedicated 
employee  who  is  an  invaluable  part  of 
the  Center  for  Lifelong  Education's 
service  to  the  College  and 
community." 


Mrs.  Joan  L.  McFadden, 
secretary  to  Rodney  G.  Hurley,  dean 
of  educational  research,  development 
and  planning:  "A  true  professional 
and  outstanding  person  committed  to 
her  profession  and  dedicated  to  the 
College.   Just  no  doubt  about  il!" 


National 
Secretaries  Week 


puzzled  students  and  busy  bosses-even 
in  the  midst  of  office  madness. 

Although  we  could  not  "spotlight" 
ail  of  the  fine  College  secretaries,  we've 
set  aside  these  pages  during  National 
Secretaries  Week  to  say  "thank  you"  to 
all  of  these  very  special  ladies. 


Mrs.     Catherine     R.     Klopp,  ^ 
secretary  to  Dr.  Russell  C.  Mauch. 
dean  of  academic  affairs:   "She's  pro- 
bably the  most  important  person  in  the 
office." 


32     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 


SKY  AND  MOUNTAIN  reflected  color  in  print  submitted  by  Mrs. 
Greninger  which  earned  an  award. 

About  the  Cover 

Delicately  hued  color  photo  by  Mrs.  Greninger  captured  highlights  of  mood 
Photo  was  adjudicated  to  be  first  place  winner  in  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  contest 

Florence  M.  Greninger  sweeps  photo  contest 

Mrs.  Florence  M.  Greninger,  machine  shop  tool-room  attendant  from  Williamsport,  was 
very  successful  in  winning  the  Gamma  Epsilon  Tau  photo  contest,  according  to  Edward  C. 
Stoddard,  graphic  arts  student  from  Punxsutawney  and  fraternity  president. 

Mrs.  Greninger  not  only  won  the  first  prize,  but  she  also  won  the  second  and  third  prizes 
as  well. 

Harold  L.  Newton,  graphic  arts  instructor  from  Williamsport,  was  selected  for  honorable 
mention  by  the  judges,  said  Stoddard. 

The  judges  met  at  7  p.m.  on  Monday,  April  16,  in  Room  7  of  the  Academic  Center  to 
make  judgement  on  the  photos. 

The  judges  elected  to  place  photos  right  side  up  with  the  names  of  the  contestants  on  the 
backs  and  out  of  view  before  they  started  the  judging.  Without  knowing  the  names  of  the  en- 
trants, judges  placed  a  point  value  on  each  photograph  submitted. 

Stoddard,  who  was  one  of  the  judges  involved  with  the  contest,  said  he  would  also  like  to 
express  a  special  appreciation  to  the  rest  of  the  judges  for  their  cooperation. 

The  other  judges  were  K.  Park  Williams,  production  printer  and  supervisor;  A.  Neale 
Winner,  coordinator  of  instructional  media;  Anthony  N.  Cillo,  associate  professor  of  jour- 
nalism; Miss  Mary  L.  Pease,  journalism  student  from  Blairsville,  and  Frank  A.  Sands,  graphic 
arts  student  from  York. 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT     •     33 


CAPITOL  building  framed  by  spring  blossoms  in  photograph  by  Mrs. 
Greninger  earned  one  of  the  top  spots  in  contest. 


m^i^m:'  3  • 

> 

i 

"f- 

'^-^ 

■<.^                 "**"^ 

^tesi»i>^ 

RUSTIC   scene   was   a   pleasant  experience   in   outdoor  colors  in 
photograph  by  Harold  L.  Newton,  who  received  an  award. 


•     SPOTLIGHT     •     Monday,  April  23,  1984 

SGA  seeking  members  for  next  year 

Any  sludent  interested  in  joining  the  Student  Government  Association  (SGA)  for  the 
1984-85  academic  school  year  should  fill  out  the  form  published  on  this  page  and  return  it  to 
the  Intramural  Athletics  Office,  Room  108,  Bardo  Gym  or  the  SGA  Office,  Room  136, 
Academic  Center,  according  to  Steven  D.  Metzker,  business  management  student  from 
Williamsporl,  and  SGA  vice-president. 

Forms  will  then  be  reviewed  by  the  Executive  Committee  and  students  will  be  notiried, 
said  Metzker. 

He  also  added  that  faculty  and  staff  may  recommend  a  student,  but  they  must  complete  a 
form  and  hand  it  in. 

L— ————————— ————■■— —^ 


Join  SGA  next  year! 


Interested  in  joining  Stdent  Government  Association  next  year?  Complete  this  form  and 
turn  it  in  today! 

Student's  Name 

Curriculum Current  Semester 


Home  Telephone  Number  with  Area  Code_ 
Signature  of  Applicanl__ 


Highspeed  High  Fidelity. 


M  &  M  STEREO 
EQUIPMENT 


Free  Alpine  key  ring  &  poster  with  purchase  of 
an  Alpine  car  stereo.   Installations  available. 


Williamspoit 

25  W.  Church  S(. 

(In  The  Badman  &  Schurer  Building)      323-2622 
^=(Behmd  E.J.'S  SPEAK-E-Z)^s^i^^=i^^^ 


Monday,  April  23,  1984     •     SPOTLIGHT 


35 


New  procedure 
to  be  initiated 
to  aid  students 
in  locating  housing 


Next  semester  there  will  be  a  new  procedure  for  locating 
student  housing,  according  to  Ms.  Mary  M.  Sinibaidi,  ad- 
missions recruiter. 

All  incoming  students  will  receive  a  queslionaire  in 
May.  Once  the  student  completes  the  form  and  returns  it  to 
the  office,  the  information  will  be  placed  on  a  personal  com- 
puter system.   The  students  will  then  receive  a  print-oul  of 
landlords    listing    similar    housing    facilities,    said    Ms. 
Sinibaidi. 
While  the  College  provides  this  service,  she  said,  the  College  does  not  recommend,  ap- 
prove, or  supervise  any  off-campus  rental  properties.  All  agreements  are  between  the  student 
and  the  landlord,  she  said. 

The  Admissions  Office  has  a  booklet,  available  to  students,  entitled  "Facts  About  Hous- 
ing" which  offers  suggestions  and  information  about  locating  appropriate  housing.  The 
booklet  includes  a  checklist  to  be  used  when  reviewing  properties  listed  with  the  College,  Ms. 
Sinibaidi  added. 

Retailer's  seminar  to  be  held  May  9 


On  Wednesday,  May  9,  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Education,  SCORE  (Service  Corps  of 
Retired  Executives),  and  U.S.  Small  Business 
Administration  will  sponsor  the  Retailer's 
Seminar/Institute,  according  to  Grant  L.  Martin, 
coordinator  of  specialized  technical  educational 
programs. 

Following  a  welcome  by  Louis  S.  Eiseman, 
College  trustee,  the  seminar  will  center  on 
discussions  of  several  needs  of  small  businesses. 

On  the  agenda  are  lectures  on  "How  To 
Apply  For  A  Loan",  by  Theodore  H.  Reich, 
president  of  the  Jersey  Shore  State  Bank; 
"Business  Structures"  by  Gail  G.  Webster,  CPA 
ACE;    "Insurance^  Checklist"    by    Larry    R. 


Young,  vice  president  of  Hartman  Insurance 
Agency;  "Financing  Incentives  for  Development 
of  Your  Business"  by  Kathleen  A.  Steinbacher, 
co-director,  community  and  economic  develop- 
ment for  the  City  of  Williamsport,  and  "Mer- 
chandising and  Inventory  Controls"  by  Robert 
L.  Lyons,  assistant  professor  of  retail  manage- 
ment at  the  College,  according  to  information 
provided  by  Martin. 

PARKING  TICKETS? 
All  parking  tickets  not  setlled  by  this  Fri- 
day, April  27,  will  result  in  a  HOLD  being  plac- 
ed on  grades  and  transcripts.  If  you  have  an 
outstanding  parking  ticket,  go  to  the  Security 
Office  at  the  foot  of  Park  Street.  Office  is  open 
from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  Monday  through  Friday. 


BENSON 


Off!  mini,   ^ 
fi§n  market 


Cramming  all  iiislii  for  an  e\ani 
\m  give  you  Ihe  MUNCHIK.S! 


Corner  of  Srd  and  Maynard  Sts. 
Open     24     IhmhsI 


We  never  ch'sc! 


Monday,  April  23,  1984 


Student  Recognition  Dinner  Wednesd!^ 

Tkc  Slidtal  Govtrnntnl  AtiociiUoD  (SGA)  will  sponsor  i  sludeil  recognition  binqntl 
il  (:3I  p.m.  (his  Wednesdiy  in  Ikt  cifeterii  of  Ihe  Academic  Center,  according  to  Mn, 
Joann  R.  Fremiotti,  coordinator  of  intramnral  athletics  and  College  activities. 

The  banquet  is  for  iladents  whom  facnily,  staff,  and  cinb  advisers  feel  ibonid  fet 
igoized  either  academicall;  or  athletically,  Mn.  Fremiotti  said.  J^H 

She  added  that  the  banqnel  is  by  intitalion  only.  J^^M 


WILL  DO  ROTOTILLING 

Custom  RolotUling  with  rear-end  tiller. 
Low  rates/fast  service.    Call  Lance  Emick  at 
478-2477. 


Final  edition  of  year 
Today's  edition  is  the  last  regular  edition 
of  The  SPOTLIGHT  this  academic  year. 


RLAV  LtCKV 
NUMBEILS  AND 
WIN  A  WHOU: 
StB  AND  MED^ 
DRINK 


Cilb's  College  Corner 


1100  W.  Third  St..  Williamsporl 
/A'cr/  to  Academic  Cenlerf 
PHONF.  AHEAD:   322-1321 


HOURS:   7: SO  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m.  Monday  iliru  Friday 


When  your  folks  forgot  they  already 

sent  you  spending  money, 

"Looks  like  a  Stroh  Light  night." 


(*7  BEVERAGE   CO. 


"Looks  like  a 
Stroh  Light  nightr 

4I')-42I  mill  Aw.  *  Wmiaiiis|)Mrl.  Pa.  *  7 1 7/.123-.1237 


