Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  OF   PENNSYLVANIA 
THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 


PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  BABYLONIAN 
SECTION 


VOLUME  X 


STEPHEN  LANGDON 


PHILADELPHIA 

THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

1915-1919 


,,  Google 


MuS.  JQ^  .37.  C-.S" 
o   . 


,  Google 


CONTENTS 


Number  1.    Suuerian  Epic  of  Paradisb,  the  Flood  and  the  Fall 
or  Man,  pagee  1  to  98,  plates  I  to  VI 

Number  2.    Sumebian  Lituhgical  Texts,  pages  99  to  204,  plates 
VII  to  LXII 

Number  3.    The  Epic  op  Gilgauish,  pages  205  to  228,  plates  LXIII 
toLXX 

Number  4.    Suherian  Lititrqies  and  Psalms,  pages  229  to  352, 
plat«8  IXXI  to  CV  . 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    OF    PENNSYLVANIA 

THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Vou  X  Ko.  1 


SUMERIAN  EPIC  OF  PARADISE,  THE  FLOOD 
AND  THE  FALL  OP  MAN 


STEPHEN  LANGDON 


PHILADELPHIA 

PUBLISHED   BY  THE   UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

I9I5 


,,  Google 


\Mws,iao,-37,  t  .•T' 


,,  Google 


CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION 5 

Synopsis 6 

DiLMUN 8 

The  End  of  Paradise 13 

The  Poem  on  the  Creation  and  the  Flood 14 

The  References  to  the  Creation  of  Man 16 

Marduk  Associated  with  Aruru 22 

Her  Connection  with  the  Story  of  the  Decapi- 
tation OF  Marduk 23 

The  Eridu  Tradition 26 

Relation  of  the  Two  Sumerian  Poems  to  these 

Traditions 27 

The  Greek  Tradition  Concerning  Prometheus.  .  29 

The  Egyptian  View 34 

The    Biblical   Form   of   the   Assistance   of   the 

Mother  Goddess 35 

The  Eridu  Version  of  the  Fall  of  Man 38 

The  NjPPURiAN  Version  of  the  Fall  of  Man  on 

the  Tablet  in  the  University  Museum 49 

The  Hebrew  Tradition 56 


y  Google 


The  Babylonian  Tradition  Concerning  the  Pre- 
DiLuviAN  Period 62 

The  Meaning  of  the  Name  Tagtug 66 

TRANSLITERATION  AND  TRANSLATION 69 

Note  on  Obverse  111,  II 85 

FRAGMENT    OF    A    LEGEND    CONCERNING    Zl- 

UD-SUD-DU,  HERO  OF  THE   FLOOD 88 

DESCRIPTION   OF  PLATES 91 

INDEX 92 

ABBREVIATIONS 98 

AUTOGRAPH  PLATES i-iva 

PHOTOGRAPHIC  PLATES v-vi 


,,  Google 


THE  SUMERIAN   EPIC   OF  PARADISE,  THE 
FLOOD  AND  THE   FALL  OF  MAN 

INTRODUCTION 

In  the  autumn  of  1912  the  author  copied,  among  about 
fifty  others,  a  triangular  fragment  of  a  tablet  in  the  Nippur 
collection  in  the  Museum.  This  (fragment,  which  had  been 
numbered  4561,  can  be  distinguished  clearly  in  the  right  upper 
corner  of  the  obverse  and  right  lower  corner  of  the  reverse 
of  the  restored  tablet  shown  in  Plates  V  and  VI  which  show 
the  tablet  in  its  natural  size.  The  contents  of  this  fragment 
were  first  mentioned  by  my  colleague.  Professor  Sayce,  at 
the  June  meeting  of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archaeology  in  Lon- 
don, at  which  our  lamented  friend.  Professor  R.  F.  Harper, 
was  present  and  contributed  memorable  remarks.'  An  epit- 
ome soon  afterwards  appeared  in  the  London  Times.  Later 
the  Museum  authorities  found  other  portions  of  this  remark- 
able text  which  obviously  contains  a  Sumerian  version  of  the 
Flood  and  the  Fall  of  Man,  antedating  by  at  least  a  thousand 
years  the  version  in  Hebrew.  The  photograph  will  show  how 
well  the  Museum  authorities  have  succeeded.  To  my  original 
fragment  they  have  added  one  large  fragment  and  one  small 
one  which  practically  restores  this  large  six  column  tablet. 
This  edition  has  been  made  from  my  copy  of  the  original  frag- 
ment and  photographs  of  the  later  joins. 

The  composition  is  of  an  epical  nature  and  probably  repre- 
sents more  nearly  than  any  production  yet  discovered  the 

■Tbe  author  published  an  accouni  of  this  fragment  in  the  June  number  of  PSBA.  191). 

(5) 


y  Google 


6  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

national  epic  of  the  religious  and  cultured  Sumerian  people. 
The  theme  is  too  humanitarian  and  universal  to  be  called 
national,  but  in  those  days,  and  in  that  part  of  the  world,  Sume- 
rian culture  was  synonymous  with  world  culture  and  her  great 
religious  traditions  became  universal  traditions,  adopted  by  the 
Semitic  peoples  who  subsequently  came  upon  the  scene  of 
history.  The  colophon  describes  the  composition  as  a  "hymn  of 
praise."^ 

Synopsis 

The  theme  which  inspired  this  epic  is  the  Fall  of  Man,  and 
it  will  be  generally  admitted  that  this  theme  suggests  the  most 
profound  ideas  and  inspires  the  deepest  emotions  of  man. 
Enki  the  water  god  and  his  consort  Ninella  or  Damkina  ruled 
over  mankind  in  paradise,  which  the  epic  places  in  Dilmun. 
In  that  land  there  was  no  infirmity,  no  sin  and  man  grew 
not  old.  No  beasts  of  prey  disturbed  the  flocks,  and  storms 
raged  iiot.  In  a  long  address  to  her  consort,  Ninella  glorifies 
the  land  of  Dilmun,  praising  its  peace  and  bliss.  And  all 
things  were  so. 

But  for  some  reason  which  is  all  too  briefly  defined  Enki 
the  god  of  wisdom  became  dissatisfied  with  man  and  decided  to 
overwhelm  him  with  his  waters.  This  plan  he  revealed  to 
Nintud  the  earth  mother  goddess,  who  with  the  help  of  Enlil 
the  earth  god  had  created  man.  According  to  Col.  1 1  32  Nintud 
under  the  title  Ninharsag  assisted  in  the  destruction  of  humanity. 
For  nine  months  the  flood  endured  and  man  dissolved  in  the 
waters  like  tallow  and  fat.     But  Nintud  had  planned  to  save 

■  jat'sal.  For  a  similar  composition  see  BE.  XXXI  j4~j8,  a  liymn  to  Dungi,  Connected 
with  this  Jitur^cal  note  is  the  use  of  the  verb  jag-sal  at  the  end  of  cylinders  A.  B  of  Gudea; 
seeSAK.  laa;  140. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF   PARADISE  7 

the  king  and  certain  pious  ones.  These  she  summoned  to  the 
river's  bank  where  they  embarked  in  a  boat.  After  the  flood 
Nintud  is  represented  in  conversation  with  the  hero  who  had 
escaped.  He  is  here  called  Tagtug  and  dignified  by  the  title  of 
a  god.  He  becomes  a  gardener  for  whom  Nintud  intercedes 
with  Enki  and  explains  to  thia  god  how  Tagtug  escaped  his  plan 
of  universal  destruction.  This  at  any  rate  is  the  natural  inference 
to  be  made  from  the  broken  passage  at  the  end  of  Col.  HI  of 
the  obverse  and  the  beginning  of  Col.  1  of  the  reverse.  Enki 
became  reconciled  with  the  gardener,  called  him  to  his  temple ' 
and  revealed  to  him  secrets.  After  a  break  we  find  Tagtug 
instructed  in  regard  to  plants  and  trees  whose  fruit  the  gods 
permitted  him  to  eat.  But  it  seems  that  Nintud  had  forbidden 
him  to  eat  of  the  cassia.  Of  this  he  took  and  ate,  whereupon 
Ninharsag  afflicted  him  with  bodily  weakness.  Life,  that  is 
good  health  in  the  Babylonian  idiom,  he  should  no  longer  see. 
He  loses  the  longevity  of  the  prediluvian  age. 

Such  in  the  Sumerian  epic  is  the  conception  of  the  fall  of 
man.  His  great  loss  consists  in  being  deprived  of  ftctreme 
longevity  and  good  health.  The  fall  from  primeval  sinlessness 
is  not  mentioned  here.  But  we  infer  from  column  two  that  sin 
had  already  entered  into  the  souls  of  men  before  the  flood  and 
caused  Enki  to  send  that  great  catastrophe.  In  a  real  sense, 
therefore,  our  epic  contains  both  the  fall  from  purity  and 
the  fall  from  longevity.  The  latter  is  brought  about  by 
eating  of  the  tree,  and  this  was  considered  the  greater  disaster. 
We  now  find  that  man  is  fallen  on  toil  and  disease.  Where- 
fore the  gods  send  him  patrons  of  healing,  of  plants,  and 
various  arts  to  comfort  him  and  aid  him  in  his  struggle  for 
existence. 


y  Google 


8  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

DlLMUN 

Tablet  No.  456r  locates  Paradise  in  Dilmun  and  apparently 
Tagtug  the  gardener  dwelled  here  after  the  flood.  Also  the 
epical  fragment  of  Creation  and  the  Flood  published  by  Dr. 
Poebel  says  that  Ziudgiddu,  the  king  who  survived  the  deluge, 
received  eternal  life  and  lived  in  the  mountain  of  Dilmun.' 
This  land  is  frequently  mentioned  in  the  inscriptions  of  all 
periods  as  an  important  province  in  the  extreme  south  of  Baby- 
lonia. Sargon  the  ancient  speaks  of  Dilmun  in  connection  with 
the  Sea  Land,'  after  which  he  turned  his  attention  to  Der  a  city 
in  Ashnunnak  on  the  Elamitic  border. 

Magan  (Arabia),  Meluhha  (Egypt),  Gubi  and  the  mountain 
of  Dilmun  are  mentioned  together  by  Gudea,"  and  the  boats 
of  Dilmun,  Magan  and  Meluhha  occur  together  in  a  lexico- 
graphical list.*  The  copper  of  Dilmun,  Magan  and  Meluhha 
is  mentioned  in  another  text.^  Geographical  lists  also  con- 
nect Eridu  and  Dilmun,*  a  fact  of  special  interest,  since  Eridu, 
on  the  Euphrates  near  the  head  of  the  Persian  Gulf,  is  the  most 
famous  center  of  the  cult  of  Enki  the  water  god.  Our  text 
affords  abundant  proof  that  Enki  was  also  connected  with  the 
religious  traditions  of  Dilmun.  Nebo,  the  city  god  of  Barsippa 
and  also  connected  with  the  Enki  water  cult,  has  at  least  eleven 
Sumerian  titles  as  a  god  in  Dilmun,  whence  we  may  suppose  that 

■The  cla»ical  ideogram  for  Dilmun  is  li&^'l^^—  and  in  tlie  earliest  known  Sumerian 
passage  it  has  also  this  fonn,  Gudea.  St.  D  IV  lo,  as  in  CT.  ij.  37,  7  a  Sumerian  text  of  the 
Isin  period.  But  IV  Raw.  36  No.  i  Obv.  A  ai  has  the  fonii  '^^'"^t—  and  our  text  has 
^f^  and  i^ffb—.    No.  456a,  2  (a  text  copied  by  the  author)  has  'Pt>.. 

■  Kind,  Chronicln  II  9a. 

•St.  D  IV  10. 

<AL'  8S  V  $-7,  Note  also  that  Sargon,  the  ancient,  conquers  Dilmun,  Magan  and  Me- 
luhha, CT.  13,44  B  16. 

*V  Raw.  37X35-7. 

•II  R.  J3A  II. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  9 

Barsippa  derived  this  deity  from  Dilmun.'  Also  Zarpanit, 
consort  of  Marduk,  son  of  Enki,  has  seven  Sumerian  titles  as  a 
deity  of  Dilmun.*  Thus  Dilmun  was  associated  with  the  water 
god  in  the  earliest  Sumerian  traditions  and  in  Babylonian  the- 
ology. 

Still  more  noteworthy  is  the  constant  association  of  Dilmun 
with  Elam  and  AnSan.  Zarpanit  of  Dilmun  is  followed  by  the 
Zarpanit  of  Elam  in  a  theological  list  of  gods.^  Astrological 
texts  also  reflect  the  ancient  importance  of  Dilmun  and  its 
association  with  Elam,  in  that  eclipses  occurring  in  the  third 
month  (Sivan)  portend  the  ruin  of  the  king  of  Dilmun,  and  those 
occurring  in  the  second  month  (Ajar)  portend  the  ruin  of  the  king 
of  Elam.* 

Delitzsch  many  years  ago  identified  Dilmun  with  the  island 
Bahrein;*  although  that  scholar  does  not  expressly  defend  this 
identification,  yet  this  inference  has  been  accepted  and  generally 
adopted.  The  identification  with  the  largest  of  the  Bahrein 
islands  has  been  suggested  to  scholars  by  passages  in  the 
inscriptions  of  Sargon,  who  in  describing  his  invasion  of  Bit-Jakin 
(the  seacoast  land  at  the  head  of  the  Persian  Gulf)  and  Elam 
says,  "  Upiri  king  of  Dilmun,  who  had  made  an  abode  in  the  midst 
of  the  sea  towards  the  East,  like  a  fish  a  distance  of  30  kasgid 
heard  of  the  might  of  .my  royal  power  and  brought  tribute."' 
If  this  passage  be  taken  literally  we  must  infer  that  an  island  is 
intended,  or  as  Delitzsch  says,  "at  any  rate  a  peninsula." 
But  we  now  know  that  in  Assyrian  historical  inscriptions  the 


•ViROLLEAUD,  Stu,  XXXlll.    See  Jastrow.  Rtligion,  II  so;. 

*Sm  Delitzsch,  ifo  Lag  Das  Paradits?,  178. 

•WiNCKLER,  5ar(<M(,  p.  6t  1.  370;  &4  I.  ao;  cf.  64  I.  381;   136,  144; 


,,  Google 


lO  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

kasgid  or  hour's  march  was  5346  meters^  or  3.3218+  English 
miles.  If  we  suppose  that  Sargon  intended  to  state  the  distance 
from  the  innermost  shore  of  the  Persian  Gulf  as  it  was  in  his  day, 
that  is  1 5  or  more  miles  further  inland  than  at  present,  we  assume 
that  Dilmun  lay  about  100  miles  from  that  point,  say  a  degree 
and  a  half  south  of  modern  Basra.  Of  course  Dilmun,  if  it 
designated  a  province  on  the  Elamitic  side  of  the  Persian  Gulf 
in  the  region  of  modern  Laristan,  may  have  included  all  the  small 
islands  off  that  coast  such  as  Shaikh  Shuaib,  Kais  and  Kishm. 
All  of  these  are  considerably  more  than  100  miles  from  Basra, 
but  Sargon  may  be  using  some  point  farther  south  as  his  place 
of  reckoning.  Dilmun  cannot  be  an  island  in  another  passage  of 
this  same  Sargon  who  says,  "The  land  Bit-Jakin  which  lies  on 
the  shore  of  the  salt  stream^  as  far  as  the  boundaries  of  Dilmun 
as  one  land  I  ruled. "^  Here  Dilmun  and  Bit-Jakin  form  a  con- 
tiguous territory.  On  the  whole  the  identification  with  a  strip 
of  land  from  about  the  twenty-ninth  degree  of  latitude  south- 
ward along  the  eastern  coast  of  the  Persian  Gulf  including  the 
islands  off  the  coast  perhaps  as  far  as  the  strait  of  Ormuz  and  the 
Arabian  Sea  will  satisfy  all  the  known  references  concerning 
Dilmun.  The  expression  of  Sargon,  "in  the  midst  of  the  sea," 
will  then  refer  to  one  of  the  small  islands  of  the  province  to  which 
the  king  Upin  fled. 

This  location  of  the  Sumerian  Paradise  will  explain  also 
the  curious  geographical  boundary  given  in  the  Hebrew  tradition 
concerning  the  Garden  of  Eden.  In  Chapter  II  10-14  of  Genesis 
the  Hebrew  preserves  a  geographical  description  which  is  ob- 

'So  F,  THUREAU-DANcrN  in  a  letter  to  the  author  who  bases  his  calculations  upon  the 
length  of  the  side  of  the  stage  tower  in  Babylon,  91  ni.  {not  100  as  Weissbach  gave)  which 
results  in  $346  m.,  not  6014  m.  as  previously  calculated. 

*/.  «.,  the  Persian  Gulf,  nJni  marralu. 

■WtNCKLER,  I'UJ.,  84  I.  1;;  cf.  138,  19  and  below  1;;   J44,  J9;    153,86;   160,36. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON— SUMERIAN   EPIC   OF    PARADISE  I  1 

viously  derived  from  Sumero-Babylonian  cosmology  and  can 
be  understood  only  by  comparing  the  description  with  a  Baby- 
lonian map  of  the  world  as  they  understood  it.  Fortunately  such 
a  map  for  early  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  cosmology  exists.' 
Here  Babylon  is  the  center  of  a  flat  circular  surface,  with  the  land 
of  ASSur  located  to  the  right.  On  the  upper  edge  the  draughts- 
man indicates  mountains,  probably  the  highlands  of  Armenia. 
In  the  right  lower  corner  is  the  city  Dir  and  at  the  left  bottom 
Bit-Ja'kinu  or  the  seacoast  lands.  Beyond  this  to  the  south 
appear  canals  (e-ku)  and  marshes  (apparu).  In  the  upper  left 
corner,  i.  e.,  in  the  northwest,  the  scribe  places  the  Hittites 
{ba-at-tim).  Around  this  circular  world  flows  the  ndru  mar- 
ra-tum,  the  bitter  river,  which  is  the  Babylonian  name  for  the 
Persian  Gulf.  Beyond  this  stream  lie  at  least  five  regions  or 
countries  of  whose  existence  the  geographers  had  a  vague 
monition. 

Let  us  suppose  that  the  ancient  Sumerians  held  the  same 
conceptions  in  regard  to  Paradise.  Around  it  flowed  the  "Bitter 
Stream,"  or  the  Persian  Gulf,  upon  whose  eastern  bank  tradition 
located  Paradise  in  the  land  of  Dilmun.  Into  this  stream  on  the 
north  flow  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates.  In  the  far  southeast  the 
Indus  flows  into  the  Arabian  Sea,  which  the  Sumerians  probably 
regarded  as  a  continuation  of  the  world  encircling  bitter  stream 
and  in  the  far  southwest  flows  the  Nile  from  Ethiopia  into  the 
Mediterranean  Sea  in  which  they  saw  the  western  segment  of 
the  same  bitter  stream.  Now  all  this  agrees  admirably  with  the 
Biblical  account.  "And  a  river  issued  from  Eden  to  water  the 
garden  and  thence  it  divided  itself  and  became  four  branches." 
This  river  issuing  forth  from  Eden  is  the  Persian  Gulf  and  the 

'Published  by  R.  C.  Thompson.  CT.  XXII  48.    This  tablet  probably  belongs  lo  the 
period  of  the  first  Babylonian  dynasty. 


,,  Google 


12  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

encircling  bitter  stream  as  Sayce  first  saw.^  In  Hebrew  and 
Assyrian  idiom  rSS  ndri,  12^^"!  "head  of  a  stream,"  or  "head," 
when  applied  to  streams  means  the  mouth  of  the  river,  as  De- 
LiTzscH  Paradise  has  long  since  emphasized.  The  four  branches 
are  rivers  which  flow  into  the  stream  which  constantly  encircles 
Paradise.  "The  name  of  the  first  is  PIshon;  this  is  the  one 
that  surrounds  all  the  land  of  Havilah  where  there  is  gold." 
The  Pishon  I  would  identify  with  the  Indus  which  would  lead 
us  to  assume  that  Havilah  here  indicates  India  or  in  a  vague 
manner  the  far  east.  "And  the  name  of  the  second  river  is 
Gihon;  this  is  the  one  that  surrounds  all  the  land  of  Ethiopia." 
Jewish  and  Christian  tradition  identified  this  river  with  the  Nile 
and  the  identification  follows  both  from  the  connection  with 
Ethiopia  and  from  Babylonian  cosmology.  "And  the  name  of 
the  third  river  is  tiiddeljel,^  which  is  the  one  flowing  before 
ASSur."  The  city  ASSur,  which  lay  on  the  eastern  bank  of  the 
Tigris  below  the  greater  Zab,  appears  to  have  been  unknown  to 
Sumerian  rulers  as  late  as  the  era  of  Dungi  {circa  2400  B.C.). 
The  city  itself  was  a  Mitanni  or  Hittite  foundation  and  not 
until  shortly  before  Sumuabu,  founder  of  the  first  Babylonian 
dynasty  {circa  2232-2218  B.C.),  do  we  hear  of  Semitic  rulers  at 
AlSur.  But  cities  in  northern  Mesopotamia  such  as  ASSur  and 
Karkemish  according  to  recent  excavations  at  low  levels  on  those 
sites  are  shown  to  be  extremely  old,  perhaps  even  older  than  the 
more  famous  cities  of  Sumer  which  surpassed  them  in  culture 
and  fame.  In  any  case  we  cannot  suppose  that  A§5ur  was 
unknown  to  the  early  Sumerians  at  least  in  a  vague  way  and 
consequently  the  mention  of  ASSur  here  does  not  imply  that  the 
source  Gen.  II  10-14  is  of  later  origin  than  the  other  portions 

'  See  Savce,  Higher  Criticism  and  the  f^erdict  of  the  MoHumeiUs,  9;  ff. 
■  /.  *.,  the  Tigris. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  I3 

of  the  Hebrew  story  of  Creation,  Paradise  and  the  Fall  of  Man 
in  Gen.  II4-III24.  Genesis  II  14  states  finally  that  the  fourth 
branch  of  the  encircling  stream  is  the  Euphrates.  The  Biblical 
statement  is,  therefore,  perfectly  intelligible  when  the  passage 
has  been  interpreted  on  the  basis  of  Babylonian  cosmology. 

The  End  of  Paradise 

Our  poem  omits  the  primitive  history  of  the  Creation  and 
prediluvian  kings,  for  its  motive  is  to  describe  the  Fall  of  Man. 
It  begins,  therefore,  with  a  description  of  the  blissful  state  of 
man  as  it  existed  immediately  before  the  Flood.  In  all  the  land 
of  Sumer  men  and  animals  dwelled  together  in  peace;  sin  and 
disease  had  not  yet  afflicted  humanity.  And  in  this  land  lay 
an  especially  favored  garden  in  Dilmun.  Dilmun  has  two  desig- 
nations which  are  indicated  by  two  ways  of  writing  the  name, 
dilmun-ki," the  city  of  Dilmun,"'  and  km-dilmun,  "the  mountain 
of  Dilmun,"  or  more  accurately  "the  Dilmunian  mountain." 
This  is  the  method  employed  in  our  tablet  and  in  Poebel,  Cr. 
VI  \2.  Ordinarily,  however,  kur-dilmun-ki  is  employed  for  "the 
mountain  of  Dilmun."*  According  to  Sumerian  grammar  kitr 
prefixed  to  a  name  indicates  the  land  of  which  the  city  in  question 
is  the  capital.  Strictly  speaking  we  should  render  kur-dilmun 
by  the  "Land  or  Province  of  Dilmun."  But  kur  means  both 
mountain  and  land.  In  case  of  those  provinces  which  were 
mountainous  the  Sumerians  and  Babylonians  spoke  of  it  as  the 
"Mountain  of  X,"  and  not  the  "Land  of  X."  An  interlinear 
text  has  ^li  kur-dilnmn-ki-ka  =  ina  bur-ti  Sa-di-i  dil-mun,  "At 
the  well  of  the  Mountain  of  Dilmun  (Ishtar  washed  her  head)."' 

'  For  the  original  use  of  ki  to  designate  only  a  city,  see  Sum.  Cr.  p.  58. 
*Gudea.  St.  D  IV  10. 
'ASKT.  U7,  37. 


y  Google 


14  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

The  reader  will,  therefore,  understand  that  dilmun-ki  means 
the  city,  kur  dilmun,  the  province  or  land  which  is  here  rendered 
by  "Mountain  of  Dilmun." 

Since  after  the  Flood  the  king  Tagtug  becomes  a  gardener 
and  a  garden  is  expressly  mentioned,'  and  since  after  the  curse 
Dilmun  is  mentioned  as  under  the  protection  of  one  of  the 
patron  genii,  we  infer  that  the  Sumerians  regarded  the  Land  of 
Dilmun  as  the  garden  of  Paradise  and  the  religious  center  of 
Sumer.  Of  its  city  Dilmun,  where  Enki  the  water  god  ruled 
mankind  and  in  whose  temple  he  revealed  secrets  to  Tagtug,  our 
epic  says,  "His  city  was  the  home  which  assembles  the  Land  (of 
Sumer)."  Sumer  or  the  land  of  the  Sumerians  is  related  to  the 
land  of  Dilmun  in  the  same  way  as  in  the  Hebrew  |1^3  ]i,  "A 
garden  in  Eden,"^  Eden*  or  the  plain  of  southern  Mesopo- 
tamia is  related  to  the  garden. 

According  to  the  Hebrew  version  the  first  of  mankind  Adam 
and  his  consort  forfeited  the  blessings  of  Paradise  almost  im- 
mediately after  the  Creation.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Sumerian 
version  allows  us  to  infer  that  mankind  enjoyed  this  blissful 
state  until  the  Flood.  In  the  days  of  one  Tagtug  who  is  men- 
tioned as  a  king,  and  probably  the  king  of  Dilmun,  man  became 
sinful  and  so  Enki*  ended  the  Utopian  age  with  the  Deluge. 

The  Poem  on  the  Creation  and  the  Flood 
A  poem  on  the  Creation  and  the  Flood,  likewise  in  six 
columns  and  in  the  same  script  as  the  one  under  discussion 
and  also  found  in  the  Museum  collections  (No.  10673),  belongs 

■Gen.  II  8. 

'  Eden  in  Sumerian  does  not  mean  a  barren  plain  but  a  wide  stretch  of  flat  land  and  more 
often  refers  to  meadow  lands. 

*  Enki  is  the  Oannes  of  Berossus.  He  appears  in  religious  texts  most  frequently  under  the 
title  f-d,  or  god  of  the  water-house,  a  name  which  is  preserved  by  Damasctus  ai  Acs  <'Aos)- 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  15 

to  the  same  cycle  of  epical  literature  concerning  the  origin  and 
fall  of  man.  This  composition,  which  has  been  published  by 
Dr.  Poebel  in  Vols.  IV  and  V,  is  unfortunately  much  more 
fragmentary  than  the  text  of  No.  4561.  The  styles  of  the 
two  poems  are  strikingly  similar.  The  tablet  previously 
published  is  devoted  entirely,  so  far  as  the  fragment  permits 
us  to  infer,  to  the  period  from  the  Creation  to  and  including 
the  Flood.  It  appears  to  have  described  softiewhat  minutely 
the  creation  of  man  and  the  political  affairs  of  Sumer  before  the 
Flood.  Also  the  Flood  is  minutely  described,  but  the  portion 
of  the  fragment  which  gave  the  reason  why  Enki  destroyed 
mankind  is  not  preserved.  At  the  end  we  learn  that  the  gods 
caused  the  king  Ziudsuddu,  who  escaped,  to  dwell  in  Dilmun. 
Evidently  the  postdiluvian  history  of  man  did  not  form  part  of 
the  theme  of  this  epic  as  it  does  in  our  own.  Moreover,  it  agrees 
with  the  Semitic  Babylonian  account  in  two  vital  matters.  The 
name  of  the  royal  hero  of  the  Flood,  Zi-ud-sud-du,'  is  obviously 
identical  with  Zi-ud,  the  Sumerian  original  of  Uia-napisUim, 
Semitic  name  of  this  hero  in  the  eleventh  book  of  the  Epic  of 
Gtlgamish,  where  the  Semitic  Babylonian  version  is  given  at 
great  length.  The  element  swrfJu,  which  means  "  to  be  long, "  had 
been  omitted  before  the  name  was  translated  into  Semitic.  And 
like  the  Semitic  Babylonian  version  this  hero  is  transferred  to 
the  island  of  the  blessed.  For  in  Poebel's  tablet  we  must  assume 
that  Dilmun  still  retains  after  the  Flood  its  ancient  character 
of  a  land  of  the  blessed.  Sumerian  tradition  probably  rehearsed 
-the  story  of  this  hero's  translation  to  one  of  the  islands  off  the 
coast  of  Dilmun  the  ancient  land  of  Paradise.    And  the  Semitic 

'  In  this  name  we  have  an  excellent  example  of  the  Sumerian  method  of  fonning  compounds 
by  placing  the  cotistruct  after  the  genitive,  Zi-ud~ui-ii,  "breath  of  life,"  is  rendered  into 
Semitic  by  the  only  construction  possible  in  Semitic,  vii.  construct  and  genitive.  The  full 
translation  should  be  Utaiiapisbii-arik,  "Long  is  the  breath  of  life."    See  PSBA  1914,  190. 


,,  Google 


|6  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

version  says  that  Utanapishtim  was  made  like  the  gods  and  taken 
by  them  to  a  far-away  place  at  the  mouth  of  rivers.  This 
probably  refers  to  Dilmun,  the  traditional  Paradise  into  whose 
encircling  stream  poured  the  four  great  rivers  of  the  primitive 
cosmos.  This  tradition  of  the  translation  of  the  hero  of  the 
Flood  to  the  blessed  isle  must  have  been  widely  spread  among 
ancient  peoples  and  it  is  curious  that  it  has  not  survived  in 
Hebrew  tradition.'  Berossus,  as  reported  by  Polyhistor,  says 
that  this  hero,  whom  he  calls  Xisuthrus,  disappeared  in  the  air 
and  was  seen  no  more,  and  Abydenus  reports  Berossus  to  have 
written  that  "The  gods  translated  him  from  among  men." 

The  References  to  the  Creation  of  Man 

As  we  have  seen,  our  poem  refers  to  the  creation  of  man 
only  incidentally.  According  to  Babylonian  tradition,  as 
reported  in  Berossus,  ten  kings  ruled  from  the  creation  of  man 
until  the  Flood  and  these  reignscovered  a  period  of  452,000  years. 
Our  composition  in  regard  to  this  long  period  during  wfiich  there 
was  no  sin  and  men  grew  not  old,  makes  no  reference  to  these 
ten  kings,  but  begins  with  the  last  of  the  kings  who  ruled  in  pre- 
diluvian  times.  In  the  description  of  the  Flood,  however,  our 
text  says  that  "Nintud  mother  of  the  Land  (of  Sumer)  had 
begotten  mankind."*  The  verb  employed  here  means  ordinarily 
"to  beget,  give  birth  to,"  and  another  passage  is  still  more 
explicit.  The  mother  goddess  under  the  title  Ninharsag  says 
to  the  Earth  God  Enii!,  "I  have  begotten  thee  children."*    And 


'  This  part  of  the  tradition  has 

n  some  way  attached  itself  to  Enoch  in  Hebrew.      So  far  as 

Noah  is  concerned  Hebrew  ttaditio 

follows  otir  epic  and  not  the  more  current  traditions  dis- 

cussed  above. 

'in-lu-ud.Obv.  II  46;  111  JO. 

'mu-e-ii-du-mu-UM.  Rev.  It  41. 

The  verb  dumu  is  connected  with  the  noun  Jumu.  "son." 

,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  I  7 

Enlil  is  also  called  "the  begetter,"  or  "father  begetter,"  the  same 
verb  being  employed  as  in  the  case  of  Ninharsag.'  AH  these 
references  to  the  direct  descent  of  man  from  the  Earth  God  and 
the  Earth  Goddess  we  must  interpret  figuratively.'  Sumerian, 
Babylonian  and  Hebrew  tradition  agree  in  regarding  man  as  a 
creature  fashioned  in  some  mysterious  manner  by  the  hands  of 
the  gods  or  a  god.  Undoubtedly  the  Sumerians,  whose  greatest 
and  most  ancient  deity  was  mother  earth,  attributed  the  creation 
of  human  kind  exclusively  to  this  virgin  goddess,  a  r61e  which 
became  attached  to  that  type  of  mother  goddess  who  presided 
over  childbirth.  In  the  evolution  of  this  religion  the  earth 
god,  primarily  the  brother'  of  the  mother  goddess,  became  associ- 
ated with  her  in  the  creation  of  man;  the  Sumerian  Epic  of  the 
Creation  and  the  Deluge  speaks  also  of  Anu  the  heaven  god  and 
Enki  the  water  god  as  deities  who  assisted  the  earth  goddess 
and  the  earth  god  in  fashioning  the  "Dark-headed  people,"* 
and  the  creatures  of  the  field.  But  the  references  to  the  creation 
of  man  in  Sumerian  and  Babylonian  poetry  generally  agree  in 
describing  the  mother  goddess,  under  the  titles  Aruru  and 
Mami,  as  the  deity  who  made  man  from  clay.     In  the  poem  of 

■  Rev.  n  43. 

'Note  for  example  Code  of  Hammtirapi  44,  43.  where  Hammurapi  speaks  of  Niniud  as 
umnu  haniti,  "  my  mother  who  begal  me."  a  purely  figurative  expression  which  describes  Niniud 
as  the  paironess  of  childbirth.  Also  Nebuchadnezzar  speaks  of  the  mother  goddess  as  ""Mai 
urnmu  ban1li-ia.  VAB.  IV  iz8.  16. 

'  In  the  same  way,  InninI  the  major  type  of  mother  goddess,  is  originally  the  sister  and 
consort  of  Tammuz,  the  god  o(  vegetation.  For  Arum  as  sister  of  Enlit  see  Meek,  BA  X  pt,  1 
No.  II.  I},  "A-ru-ru  SylL  +  KU[aialu)  'Mu-ul-lil-ld.  "Aruru  sister  of  Enlil;"  cf.  Craig,  RT. 
19,  6  and  BL.,  88,  3  +  )4,  3.  Note  also  that  she  is  the  aunt  of  Litlu,  son  of  Enlil;  \*A-ni-]ni 
ama-l&r  ^Lil-ra-ge,  "Aruru  the  aunt  of  Lillu;"  'Lil-ra,  i.  e.,  Lir-ra  is  a  son  of  Ninlil,  consort 
of  Enlil,  CT.  34, 16,  107.  Lirra,  Ulla  Is  a  variant  of  Litlu,  title  of  Ninib.  son  of  Enlil.  II  R. 
yj,  66.  The  passage  on  which  this  relation  of  Aruru  to  the  earth  god  is  based  was  previously 
misunderstood:  see  SBP.  14,  y 

'Cot.  I  13  f.     Here  the  verb  is  dim,  ordinarily  used  for  "to  build  " 


,,  Google 


lO  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

Atarhasis'  and   Ea,   Mami  the  mother  goddess  restores  men 
upon  the  earth  by  creating  them  from  clay. 

"When  she  had  recited  her  incantation  and  had 
cast^  it  upon  her  clay,  fourteen  pieces  she  pinched  off. 
Seven  pieces  on  the  right  she  placed,  and  seven  pieces 
on  the  left  she  placed.  Between  them  she  put  a  brick 
.  .  .  she  opened.  She  .  .  .  the  wise  wives,  seven 
and  seven  mother  wombs;  seven  create  males  and 
seven  create  females.  The  mother  womb^  creatress 
of  fate  caused  them*  to  complete/  yea  these  she  caused 
to  complete  (their  offspring)  in  her  own  likeness.*  The 
designs  of  men  Mami  designed."  A  religious  text  of 
the  late  Assyrian  period  in  form  of  an  acrostic  has  the 
line,  "The  workmanship  of  the  hand  of  Aruru  are  the 
things  with  the  breath  of  life  altogether."' 

Not  only  did  the  Sumerians  and  Babylonians  retain  this 
tradition  concerning  the  creation  of  man  from  clay  at  the  hand 
of  Aruru,  but  they  believed  her  capable  of  thus  creating  a  human 
being  at  any  time  and  for  any  necessity.     In  the  first  book  of 

1  In  Ihis  legend  which  descritws  the  repeated  affliction  and  final  annihilation  of  humanity 
by  plagues  Atarhasis  probably  represents  the  last  of  the  ten  kings  and  the  hero  of  the  Flood. 
The  legend  probably  refers  to  a  traditbn  in  which  mankind  succumbed  to  famine,  drought  or 
pestilence  and  not  to  a  flood,  but  from  this  annihilation  Atarhasis  escaped.  The  text  is  badly 
damaged  (CT.  15,  49)  so  that  the  general  import  cannot  be  divined.  See  Dhorme,  Cboix  dt 
Tixtis  Relifieux  laS-r^o;   Rogers,  Curui/orm  ParalUli  ii)-i3i. 

'  Read  \ta-al-]Ui-di,  and  for  the  verb  mulii  employed  with  liplu,  cf.  idiiuma  Uptam,  "over 
him  cast  the  curse."  This  act  is  distinct  from  the  recitation  (man&)  of  the  curse,  and  refers  to 
mystic  movements  with  the  hands. 

•A  title  of  Aruru. 

*  /.  e.,  fourteen  mothers  who  begat  males  and  females, 

*  UkalaU,  historical  present.  With  this  passage  compare  Ham.  Codt.  Ill  37.  !<i  u-la-ak-li- 
lu-iu  t-ri'il-tum  "^Mama,  "(Hammutapi)  whom  the  wise  Mama  <- Mami)  caused  to  be  per- 
fected (in  his  mother's  womb)," 

*  mai-Tu-ta;  this  interpretation  was  suggested  by  Dhorme  and  is  supported  by  the  Sumerian 
hymn  to  Nintud,  BL.  SS,  a  1 ;  89,  to;  90, 14,  etc.  where  woman  is  said  to  be  created  like  Nintud 

')»>(■(  iat  "^Antm  milbarii  napiUi,  Chaw,  RT.  51,  14:  Martin,  TtxUs  Relitieux  [84; 
A.  Jeremias.  Handbucb  der  allorientaliscbtn  GtiittikuUut  3)4. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  I9 

the  Epic  of  Gilgamish,  the  people  of  Erech  call  upon  her  to 
create  a  being  capable  of  protecting  them  from  the  violence  of 
Gilgamish. 

"Unto  the  mighty  Aruru  they  called.  'Thou  O  Aruru 
hast  created  [Gilgamish],  and  now  create  his  likeness. 
Like  unto  the  spirit  of  his  heart  may  his  spirit  be.' 
May  they  strive  with  each  other  and  may  Erech 
repose.'*  When  Aruru  heard  this  she  formed  a  likeness 
of  the  god  Anu  in  her  mind.  Aruru  washed  her  hands ; 
clay  she  pinched  off  and  cast  it  upon  the  field  .  .  . 
Enkidu  she  fashioned,  the  hero.'" 

The  only  important  Sumerian  hymn  to  Aruru  as  the  creatress 
of  men  is  the  interesting  but  badly  damaged  liturgy  to  her  in 
eight  sections  inscribed  on  a  prismatic  prayer  wheel  now  in  the 
Ashmolean  Museum.*     Although  this  important  text  has  been 

■  Read  w:ih  Jensen,  a-na  i-um  tibbi-!u  /h-ii  m<i-j!i-i7  ft-Hm-lul.  For  Amu,  Spirit,  soul, 
see  SBP.  98  n.  7.  For  maialu  construed  with  ana,  ef.  ilUn  ana  lant  la  muiul,  "One  is  not  com- 
pared to  another,"  Harper,  Ltttert  33;,  17.  anaatakli  raHti-lu  la  tunallalu  Uu  aiumma,  "No 
god  can  do  ought  comparable  to  the  ways  of  his  ftreatnesi,  K.  85 19,  Rev.  3  f, 

■  So,  after  Dhorme. 

'  Dhorme,  Choix  de  Textis,  186,  )0-i88,  );. 

'  The  text  was  published  tn  Babylonian  Uturgies  No.  197  and  a  Constant inopte  duplicate 
will  be  found  in  my  Hittorical  and  Rilitious  Tixti  No.  s).  Radau,  Miscel.  No.  8  furnishes 
a  variant  of  Cot.  IV  and  partially  restores  the  seventh  section  of  this  litany.  This  latter  variant 
escaped  me  when  I  edited  the  text.  Raoau,  8  Obv.  1  — BL.  93,  30  and  the  end  of  the  sixth 
section  is  identical  on  both  texts. 

The  seventh  section  can  be  much  restored  from  the  variant  in   the  University  Museum. 
Col.  lVa-Radau8,7: 
a.  1  ajag-dib-bi  l-nun  2.  To  the  temple,  lo  tchUb  the  holy  enter, 

',  the  shrine, 

}.  i  Kei-lki)  aiag-dib-bi'^'nitn"^  \        3.  To  the  temple  of  K^i,  lowbicb  tbe  boly 

enter,  the  shrine, 
4.  The  Anunnaki  go  up,  their  lord(s), 
;.  The  dim   of   Eanna,   their   priesl(s)   of 

6.  The  aisle,  oh  king,  wiib  feslioity  thou 
tread  est. 


4.  i-a"^  m-bi  '^A-nun-na-me! 
J.  nu-lt-bi dim  i-an-tui-nei 

6.  kisaUe  lugal  bur-ra-an      mu-t-gub 


'  Var.  omits. 
^  Read  i-nun^kummu.    Traces  of  i  on  the  prism. 


,,  Google 


20  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

partially  restored  from  two  duplicates  we  are  still  unable  to 
fully  understand  its  general  import.  It  is  clear  that  the  Hturgists 
intended  to  compose  a  chant  in  eight  sections  to  Nintud  the 
creatress  to  be  sung  in  her  temple  at  KeS.  Since  each  section 
ends  with  the  mournful  refrain,  "Who  shall  utter  lamentation," 
and  the  seventh  section  speaks  of  calamities  which  befell  the 


X  m-dug-iag  tutityial  nam-mi-inlii"* 

■t.  The  beneficent  lord  hath  clolhed  il  with 

{18) 

8.  a-dit?-'  «»»>-»'"  'En-ki  ni-fah  .«.? 

8.  The <>*',  lord  Enki  walcba  oon  it. 

9-  iu-t     a-lfin     -a-an  mu-t-gub 

g.  The  baptizer treads. 

l0.lM-e....a-hi-l>i    ki-ajat-ga-a-an    du(f)- 

lo.  The ""  in  the  holy  place  dwUs. 

da{/)  .(?)* 

1 1 .  m-du-iU*"  ahkal  ubar-e-Hi'*^  ta<^'  A/-'" 

II.  The lord,  the  councillor— the  pro- 

a-an ma-tH-l'-^i 

tegees  salute  bim  mlh  prostration  to  the 

earth. 

11.*^  ....M-fl-Bi  su.mu.un-slg-gi-nt'^' 

II.'*' His .hey 

XI 

....RU  URU-RU  mi.-n>-iW.i*'*'.ne 

12 (bi  cily  bumilialtd  they  recite. 

n 

tna-St  «l«-ii""  mi-m-ib-ia 

13 with  sorrow  abounded. 

^  \iu?-\  d4a!-t  ii-ia-nH-Bi-iWi'"' 

ij."^'  The  boand  cried  aloud. 

14 

. . .  .ii(ir?"*'-fa  sui-sai  mi-ni-ib-ia 

■4 

""  |. .  ./W«S-U'i  si-ia-ba-tii-ib-!d 

14,*^  . ,   theharem  tnily  she  directed  aright. 

IJ 

[...lUug-ka-tat-lial'dut^^*'' 

15.  of  the  harem   its   festivity   she 

made  good. 

<"  Var.  Cslpl-,  1992  Rev.  II  4  \nam-\mtt-aH-lal. 

*"  Var.  Raoau  8,  omits. 

'^'  So  Raoau.     The  pnsm  has  the  sign  UR  Br.  1 1887  dearly  wnllen. 

'*'  Var.  Raoau,  8,  lil-e  ki-aiag-ga  nam-mi'in-duru«{>), 

""  Cf.  CT.  16,  37. 12,  ''en-d&-ilg(.?)^i.    Thompson  read  SA  ((or  sig!). 

***  So  clearly  Cstple.  1993  Rev.  1 1  7. 

"'Ash-   Prism;    Cstple.   1992    Rev.   II    7.      Radau,  KA+LI  sic!    (for   ilgf)   is  slighi 
damaged  here. 

***  The  prism  has  ki  clearly,  not  *u. 

**'  This  line  is  preserved  on  Cstple.  1991  and  RAt>AU  8,  but  the  prism  omiis  it. 

'""  My  copy  Cstple.  1991  Rev.  II  jo  has  ga,  probably  an  error  for  bi. 

Var.  Radau.  ga-a-an;  Cstple.  1993  simply  gig.  Note  also  line  10  a-an  where  the  varia 
omits,  a-an  is  therefore  an  adverbial  ending  having  the  same  force  as  the  oblique  ending 
see  Sum.  Or.  §79  and  SUP.  40,  23  har-lul-ba-dm  (a-an)  =  tna  luiliSu.  This  line  would  be  ri 
dered  into  Semitic  by  ina  miirfi  uilabarri,  c(.  IV  R  24  No.  ),  21. 

'"•Cf.  ZiMMERN.  KL.  28  Rev.  jr  ff. 

*'^'  This  sign  on  the  prism  is  clearly  not  the  one  given  by  Radau.      My  collation  h 
mr^^^.      ti((>  is,  however,  the  most  probable  rendering. 

"*'  Cstple.  1992  omits  the  three  preceding  lines. 

*"'  Radau,  su-nu.     I  read  lug-lal  on  the  prism. 

*'**  A  title  of  Enki  as  a  god  of  the  water  cult. 

""  Title  of  Enki 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON— SUMERJAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  21 

city  we  may  suppose  that,  like  all  other  Sumerian  liturgies,  our 
text  was  written  as  a  lamentation  concerning  some  local  calamity. 
But  in  the  composition  of  this  liturgy  the  scribes  have  given 
more  than  ordinary  attention  to  the  legends  which  concerned 
the  cult  in  question.  At  the  end  of  each  section  they  have 
added  a  refrain  in  four  lines  which  obviously  refers  to  the  crea- 
tion of  man  in  the  image  of  Ninib  (aSSirigi)  and  of  woman  in  the 
image  of  the  mother  goddess  Nintud. 

1  would  now  render  this  refrain  in  the  following  manner: 

"In   accordance  with   the   incantation  of  the  earth 
design^  a  form  may  man  bear. 

Their  strong  one  like  Ninib  (aSStrgi)  in  form  may  a 
mother  beget. 

Their  lady  like  Nintud  in  form  shall  be." 

[6 i-dut  ka-ial-bi  at-dui*"  |       i6 of  the  harem  itj  festivity  she  made 

good. 
17 '*'  lal-ii-a  mu-un-dumn  r? in  their abode. 

18.   (1)'"     sag-t^     nin4aj-ii-a     mu-u«-  18 in  their abode. 

19.  [£N-H^R-(tO-]'*'gi»i  Ttb-ba  faltt  fi-in-  19.  In  accordance  with  the  incantation  of 

ga-lan-Hirn-mtt]  ihe  "  earth  design"  a  form  let  man  bear. 

30.  UT'sag-il ''41-hr-gi-gim  rib-ba  ama  Ji-lin-  3o.   Their  strong  one  like  Ninib  in  form  may 

ga-an-H-tud]  a  mother  beget. 

31.  lnin-bi\''NiH-lud-gim  rib-ba-ra^^^  a-ha  er-      ■      3i.  Their  lady  like  Nintud  in  form  is.     Who 

(mK-ni-in-<fu^l  I  shall  lament? 

"'  Csiple.  1993  omiis  this  line.    Here  ends  the  variant  iti  the  Museum  collections. 

*"  The  sign  before  fof  appears  lo  be  ga  on  ihe  prism. 

**'  I  have  carefully  collated  these  signs  and  read  $Si-ga. 

<*' This  ideogram  ^''f^C^  is  followed  by  ki-ga  (Var.  jd)  III  17;  by  *i.  Ill  },  U7.  I  35, 
and  in  11  11  both  ki  and  ga  are  omitted.  We  are  induced  to  suppose  on  the  analogy  of 
forms  like  unH-(ki)-ga-{,ki)^Urug-ga,  Erech,  Zimmern,  KL.  300,  26;  ;?rt;^-(ii)-na  =  Nini, 
Allotte  de  la  FiiifE,  Document!  Prl-sargoniqtui  167;  that  EN-HAR  represents  the  name  of 
some  city  which  ends  in  g,  and  according  to  I  15,  where  it  follows  immediately  upon  Ke!,  that 
it  is  a  quarter  of  that  city.  Such  was  my  impression  when  this  difficult  text  was  edited  in  the 
Liturgies,  but  for  another  view  see  note  1  bebw. 

'°'  ra  emphatic  demonstrative  equivalent  to  am,  see  Sum.  Or.  \\6y 

'fB-^ar-*i-|fl,  see  above,  no:e  (4);  Stimxic  kima  lipii  ufiaat  itfitim.  If  this  interpreta- 
tion  be  correct  we   must  explain  iar  as  an   abbreviation  for  gil-iar,  for  iar  in  the  sense  of 


,,  Google 


22  university  museum — babylonian  section 

Marduk  Associated  with  Aruru 
Thus  beyond  all  doubt  the  Nippurian  school  of  Sumerian 
theology  originally  regarded  man  as  having  been  created  from 
clay  by  the  great  mother  goddess.^  But  later  tradition  tended 
to  associate  Enlil  with  Nintud  or  Aruru  in  the  creation  of  man. 
We  have  no  reference  to  such  a  tradition  concerning  Enlil,' 
but  Semitic  tradition  repeatedly  associates  Marduk  with  Aruru 
in  this  act  and  even  goes  to  the  extent  of  regarding  him  as  alone 
having  created  man.  This  evolution  of  the  tradition  concerning 
Marduk  is,  I  venture  to  think,  based  upon  an  earlier  one  con- 
cerning Enki.  In  any  case  this  association  of  a  great  god  in  the 
act  of  creation  cannot  be  earlier  than  the  Hammurapi  period, 
for  in  our  text  (Rev.  11  44)  Enlil  accuses  Ninharsag  of  having 
herself  created  two  creatures.  Nevertheless,  following  a  ten- 
dency to  regard  Marduk  the  god  of  Babylon  as  the  chief  actor 
in  the  ancient  Sumerian  tradition,  a  tendency  which  is  repeated 
later  by  the  Assyrians  with  their  god  ASur,  the  Babylonians 
ascribe  the  creation  of  the  ordered  world,  its  cities,  its  rivers, 
its  vegetation  and  the  beasts  of  the  field  to  Marduk.  And  in 
reciting  the  various  orders  of  creation  by  Marduk  they  tell  us 
that  he  also  "built"  mankind.^  In  this  act  Aruru  assists  him; 
"Aruru  built  with  him  the  first  men."*    The  text  from  which 

"design"  occurs  rarely  without  the  absiraci  prefix  gii  and  is  then  rendered  by  the  loan-word 
tarru  in  Semitic,  ki  or  ir;i(H  has  here  the  meaning  "ground,"  and  iar-ki  would  mean  "a  plan 
designed  on  the  ground,"  from  which  man  was  patterned.  For  the  idea  compare  ki-a  iai-ra  — 
la  ina  kalfkar  urii,  Haupt,  ASKT.  86,  71.  In  the  passage  cited  above  p.  23  Mami  recites  an 
incantation  over  the  clay  from  which  she  moulds  the  fourteen  mothers. 

'  See  tablet  No.  4;6],  Rev.  II  44,  Also  Enki  is  said  to  have  created  from  clay  the  minor 
deities  who  preside  over  brickmakers,  carpenters,  jewelers  and  various  arts;  see  Weissbach, 
Mild.  33,  36. 

*  Except  in  Ihe  titles,  tud.  Rev.  tl  4;  banA  abi^'En-lU,  SB  P.  84,  1;;  bant  Hi  u  larri  balA 
iai-ka.  PSBA.  1913,  153  1.  14. 

'anuliUi  ibiani, 

*lir  amtl&li,  "the  seed  of  mankind,"  1.  e.,  those  from  whom  mankind  descended.  Adapa 
is  called  the  jir  anulOii,  which  obviously  reveals  a  tradition  that  Adapa  was  the  first  created 
man,  Dhorme,  Ciouc,  158,  11. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  2} 

this  description  has  been  taken  belongs  to  the  period  of  the 
first  Babylonian  dynasty.'  Like  many  other  important  literary 
documents  it  forms  part  of  an  incantation,^  and  in  this  case  an 
incantation  for  the  dedication  of  a  temple.^  Sumerian  and 
Semitic  sources  seem  to  qgree  in  bringing  the  mother  goddess 
into  connection  with  the  creation  of  man  only.  She  has 
apparently,  in  all  the  known  sources,  no  clear  connection 
with  the  creation  of  the  world,  or  its  animate  and  inanimate 
nature.* 

Her  Connection  with  the  Story  of  the  Decapitation  of 
Marduk 

On  the  whole  the  theology  and  traditions  concerning  Nintud 
or  Aruru  belong  to  the  Nippurian  school  which  taught  that  the 
earth  god  Enlil  created  the  universe  and  assisted  the  mother 
goddess  in  creating  man.  Over  against  the  teaching  of  this 
school  we  have  constantly  to  keep  in  mind  the  teaching  of  the 
Eridu  or  southern  group  of  theologians  who  taught  that  Enki 
or  Ea  not  only  created  the  universe  but  mankind  as  well.  It  is, 
therefore,  not  surprising  that  we  find  the  great  Babylonian  Epic 
of  Creation  teaching  that  Marduk  the  son  of  Enki  created  man 
from  blood  and  bone.      A  grammatical  commentary  on   this 

•CT.  I),  js-38.  Translaied  by  Dhorme,  Cboix,  81-9:  A.  Jeremms,  Hatutbucb,  24.  A 
smalJ  variant  of  the  ends  of  the  first  lines  has  been  discovered  by  Zinhern,  2A.  z8,  loi.  See 
also  RocERS.  Cutui/orm  Parotitis  48-^0. 

'This  text  originally  written  in  Semitic  is  provided  with  a  Sumerian  translation  so  arranged 
that  part  is  on  the  left  of  the  Semitic  text  and  part  on  the  right. 

'  See  the  reverse  I.  13,  Etida  itibtum  jirfum  naram  lihbi  ""/inu  u  ""/Har  alia  and  the  under- 
line, ttiim-tnim-ma  U-]mJ->nJ-^'-;^  "  Incarnation  for  the  building  of  a  temple."  Note  also  that 
a  poem  of  Creation,  cmitna  ^nti  ihn&  lami,  "When  Anu  created  the  heavens,"  is  recited  at  a 
ceremony  for  rebuilding  a  temple,  Weissbacm.  Misci.  No.  11,  line  13.  For  a  similar  text  on 
the  building  of  a  private  house  see  Zimhern,  ZA.  3).  369.  a  text  partly  rendered  into  English 
by  the  writer  in  an  article  on  Babylonian  Magic,  "Scientia,"  Vol.  XV,  pp.  339  f. 

'  The  only  phrase  which  can  be  construed  so  as  to  include  animals  in  her  creative  work 
has  been  cited  above,  p.  33  n.  7. 


,,  Google 


24  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

epic  says  that  Marduk  created  the  dark-headed  people.^  The 
description  of  this  act  occurs  at  the  beginning  of  the  sixth  book 
as  restored  by  Dr.  L.  W.  King*  and  runs  as  follows; 

"When  Marduk  heard  the  discourse  of  the  gods, 
His  heart  prompts  him^  as  he  devises  a  clever  thing. 
As  his  mouth  is  opened*  he  speaks  unto  Ea. 
That  which  he  conceives  in  his  heart  he  imparts  unto 

him. 
My  blood  I  will  fix  together,  bone  I  will  fashion. 
I   will  cause  man   to  stand  forth,   verily  man  shall 

be    .    .    . 
I  will  build  man,  the  dweller  of  the  earth. 
Verily  let  the  cults  of  the  gods  be  established  and 

may  these  occupy  their  shrines." 

This  well-known  passage  has  been  properly  elucidated  by 
King,  who  compares  the  statement  of  Berossus: — "And  Belus 
seeing  a  land  deserted  but  fruitful  commanded  one  of  the  gods 
to  take  off  his'  head  and  to  mix  earth  with  the  blood  that  flowed 
therefrom,  and  to  fashion  men  and  animals  capable  of  bearing 
the  air."'  An  earlier  source  detected  by  Zimmern  in  a  tablet 
of  the  first  Babylonian  dynasty'  shows  that  this  idea  of  creating 

'  PSBA.  1910,  161,  K,  uSjo,  1;  cf.  also  page  167. 

'  King,  The  Stwn  Tablets  of  Creation   p.  86. 

'  ubba!,  an  historical  present  followed  by  the  tal  present,  see  M  eissnek,  KitT{gefassU  Aay- 
riscbe  Grammalik,  Jji  g,  and  for  the  historical  present,  ibakki  Ulibu,  CT.  ij,  ja  Rev.  g. 

*  For  the  subjunclive  permansive  construction  ep}u  pl-lu,  epU  pl-kunu,  etc.  (see  examples 
in  Muss-Arnolt,  iwicon  788  ft);  see  also  ZA.  IV  133,  K.  3199,  ii. 

•The  head  of  Belus. 

'[Sd»To  Si  Tov  B^Xoi-  x^pav  IpTjiiov  koI  KOfrwa^opov  kiXcvvoi  iv\  tuv  OiSiv  Trjv 
kc^clX^v  &<^tXovTi  (avroS  Tiji  airoppvivTi.  atpari  ij>vpS/Tat  rifv  y^v  koI  Siatrkamu 
iy^pmrwi  Kal  fyrjpia  to,  hivaiixva.  tov  iipa  ^«pov,  Cory,  Ancieni  Fragments,  second 
edition,  p.  26. 

'CT.  VI  6  Obverse.  SeeZA.  14,  a8i;  also  A.  Jerehias,  Handbucb  i8i  n.  g.  This  difficult 
text  was  first  copied  by  the  skillful  hand  of  Dr,  T.  G.  Pinches  and  a  new  copy  by  the  writer 
will  be  found  on  Plate  III  of  this  volume.  The  original  is  much  weatherworn.  Although 
I  have  succeeded  in  reading  some  more  signs  yei  I  owe  more  to  Dr.  Pinches'  copy  than  is 
apparent.  The  original  text  contained  six  columns  of  about  forty  tines  each  and  probably  be- 
fongs  to  some  unknown  epic 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE 


man  from  earth  mingled  with  the  blood  of  a  god  belongs  originally 
to  the  Eridu  school.  This  tradition  taught  that  Mami  at  the 
instigation  of  Enki  and  other  gods  fashioned  man  from  clay  and 
the  blood  of  a  slain  god.  At  least  such  conclusions  force  them- 
selves upon  us  from  the  few  words  which  we  can  decipher  upon 
this  tablet. 


4.  ftaC  ii-kin  balatt  a-vie-lvm  li-ii-ii 

5.  il-ta-am  ii-iu-u  in- * 

6.  u-su-uf  ilani  e-ri-ii-tu  ''"Ma-mi 

7.  at-ti-itna  id-as-su-ru 

8.  ba-ni-a-at  a-we-lu-tim 

g.  bi-ni-tna,  lu-ul-la-a  li-bi-el*  ap- 
ia-nant 

10.  ap-sa-nam  li-bt-el  SI 

1 1 .  kdt  li-kin  batafi  a-we-lum  li-H-ii 

12.  ardatu{?)rabUu  bi-a-ia  te-pu-ia- 

am-ma 
1 5.  i^-ja-kar  a-na  Hani  rabu-ti 

14.  H-li-ja-ma  la-na  lu-?  -e-?^ 

15.  il-ii  dunani-iu  i-ba-ai-ii u 


4.  A  form  of  a  creature  of  life  may 

man  bear. 

5.  A  goddess  they  called,  they 

6.  "Oh    help    of    the    gods,    wise 

Mami, 

7.  Thou  art  a  mother-womb, 

8.  Creatress  of  mankind. 

9.  Build   a   virile  figure,    let    him 

bear  the  yoke. 

10.  The  yoke  let  him  bear 

11.  A  form  of  a  creature  of  life  let 

man  bear." 

12.  The  mighty  maid*  opened  her 

mouth, 

13.  Speaking  unto  the  great  gods. 

14.  "With     me     a     form     shall 

you 

1 5.  With  his  shape shall  there 

be. 


'  Uncertain.  The  sign  after  Su  I  have  taken  for  "^  and  the  whole  for  kat,  Br.  7095. 
kit,  consiruct  of  kantu  >  kalta  "form,"  is  possible,  for  which  we  have  the  anabgy  of  binlu 
>  btlH,  cstr.  bit  "house."  My  rendering  has  been  inlluenced  by  ihe  Sumerian  hymn  to  Nin- 
lud  cited  above  where  we  have  the  refrain,  "In  accordance  with  the  incantation  of  (he  earth- 
design  a  form  let  man  bear."  The  consiructton  here  with  two  constructs  so  common  in  Hebrew 
can  be  paralleled  in  Assyrian:  t.  (.,  iUikussl  iarrOtilu,  Tiglathpileser,  Prism  VIII  78. 

'  Certainly  not  ii-du-u. 

*  Cf.  Rev.  ao. 

*  For  li-hii?  Cf.  Li-bi-il-b'iaUa.  name  of  a  canal  at  Babylon.  VAB.  IV  Index,  and  u4iil 
aplanaki.  King,  Magic,  8,  7. 

■  fu-Ii-f-iu-ut,  might  answer  to  the  traces  on  the  tablet. 

*  Uncertain.  For  the  original  form  of  GIN,  Brunnow.  1  tijt  see  Allotte  de  la  FuVe. 
DP.  49  Rev.  €-.  BM.  38744.  For  gin  in  the  sense  of  ardaiu  and  a  title  of  the  mother  goddess 
of  love,  a  character  attached  to  Innini,  see  rummu;  and  IsbUtr  7$.  The  sign  has  also  the  value 
ki-tl,  kcl=ariattt;  see  MIC.  4159  Obv.  3  (Genouillac,  Immtairi),  where  the  sign  is  followed 
by  la.    See  also  Oppert,  ZA.  i.  440- 


,,  Google 


26  ,      UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

i6.  lu-u-ma  ?-la-?  ka-la-ma  i6.  He  shall 'all  things. 

17.  (i-it-ta-am    It- ma    da-ma  17,  Of  clay  shall  he ,  of  blood 

lu{?)-nu-ui  shall  he " 

18.  ^En-ki  pi-a-lu  i-pu-ta-am-ma  18.  Enki  opened  his  mouth, 

19.  ix-ia-kar  ana  Hani  ra-bu-li  19.  Speaking  unto  the  great  gods. 

20.  i-na  ar-bi  ri-bu-ti  u  -la-ti  20,  "In    the    wide    highways    and 

the 

21.  te-li-il-iu  ma-ii  di-in-ri-?-?  2i.  Cleansing  of  the  land . 


Ham  il-te-en  li-it-bu-iu-ma  22.  One  god  let  them  slay. 

23.  li-le-el-ii?  Hani  i-na  di-?-ht  23.  Let  the  gods, . 


24.  i-na  ii-ri-lu  H  da-mi-iu  24.  With  his  flesh  and  his  blood, 

'"Nin-   iar-sag   ii-ba-U-il  t'-if-  25-  May  Ninharsag  mix  clay." 

tarn 


The  Eredu  Tradition 

In  the  tradition  concerning  the  creation  of  man  by  Marduk 
we  have  apparently  to  do  with  a  Babylonian  transformation  of 
the  Eridu  view  which  taught  that  Enki  or  Ea  the  water  god 
created  man  from  clay,  which  the  Nippurian  schools  taught  con- 
cerning Aruru.^  In  the  so-called  bilingual  Babylonian  version 
which  associates  Mami  with  Marduk  in  this  act  we  have  a  com- 
posite tradition  made  by  the  Babylonians  from  two  Sumerian 
sources.  And  in  the  Babylonian  source  just  discussed  the  Eridu 
view  of  the  origin  of  man  from  a  mixture  of  clay  with  the  blood 
of  a  god  has  been  associated  with  the  Nippurian  teaching  con- 
cerning Mami.  An  Assyrian  fragment,  however,  shows  that  the 
Semites  retained  the  pure  Eridu  tradition  in  some  quarters.^ 
According  to  this  source  "the  gods"  created  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  the  cattle  and  creeping  things,  after  which  Enki^  created 

■  According  to  the  Biblical  narrative  we  expect  here  some  word  for  "  rule,  direct  " 
>t  use  this  title  by  preference  only.     The  reader  will  understand  that  the  other  titles, 
Mami,  Nintud.  Ninharsag  all  indicate  the  same  moiher  goddess. 
'  DT.  41  in  CT.  I  j,  J4.     See  Dhorme,  Cboix,  96. 
'  NiH-iii-a;ai  is  the  title  used  in  this  poem. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  2^ 

"two  little  ones."'  A  tablet  from  Babylon  of  the  late  period' 
but  doubtlessly  resting  upon  a  much  earlier  text  says  that  Enki^ 
pinched  clay  from  the  sea  and  built  the  various  minor  deities, 
patrons  of  the  arts,  of  agriculture,  etc.,  after  which  "he  created 
the  king  to  care  for  the  temples  and  men  to  care  Jot  the  cults." 
We  have,  therefore,  evidence  for  a  tradition  which  taught  that 
Enki  had  created  mankind  from  clay. 

Relation  of  the  Two  Sumerian  Poems  to  These 
Traditions 

The  poem  of  Creation  and  the  Flood  appears  to  have 
completely  confounded  these  traditions  for  here  both  Enki  and 
Ninharsag*  create  mankind,  but  Enki  alone  brings  the  "cattle 
and  fourfooted  beasts  of  the  field"  into  being,  and  causes  cities 
to  be  built.  Obviously  the  later  bilingual  account  discussed 
above  depends  upon  this  poem.'  This  Sumerian  poem  also  agrees 
with  the  Babylonian  bilingual  account  on  one  other  vital  point 
in  that  it  speaks  of  the  origin  of  mankind  as  "the  seed  of  man- 
kind," or  the  first  men.*  The  fragments  of  this  poem  permit  us 
to  infer  that  the  god  Enki  of  Eridu  is  here  regarded  as  ruling 
over  mankind  in  prediluvian  times.  The  Poem  of  Paradise, 
the  Flood  and  the  Fall  of  Man  agrees  entirely  upon  this  latter 
point.     Both  poems  incorporate  fully  the  Eridu  tradition  of 

■  2  jK-Ja-|rt  ib-ni\. 

'  Weissbach,  Misctl.  No.  13. 

•  The  text  employs  the  title  Nu-dim-mud. 

'  Col.  I  1 3  where  al»  Anu  the  heaven  god  and  Enlil  the  earth  god  are  added. 

'  Here  Marduk  replaces  Enki. 

*n»Miin-Mjm-/i)-i<ii(—;ir  anulSti)  Col.  IV  7.  d.  I  1.  This  Is  the  transcription  given  by 
POEBEL.  The  bilingual  text  has  numun-ruim-lit-gil-lu.  CT.  i),  36.  31;  cf.  Thureau-Dancin, 
SAK.  IS4  Itl  34.  In  a  strict  sense  the  term  "seed  of  martkind,"  should  refer  to  the  first  man, 
as  the  term  is  applied  to  Adapa  alone.  The  Greeks  render  this  idea  by  ruv  ia/Bprnnm 
yivK,  see  Cory,  Ancient  Fragments,  398,  note. 


,,  Google 


20  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

paradise  the  organization  of  an  Utopian  society  by  the  creator 
Enki  and  the  destruction  of  mankind  by  this  same  water  god. 
Both  agree  also  in  describing  the  mother  goddess  Nintud'  as 
weeping  for  mankind  whom  she  had  created  and  planning  to 
save  them.^  Our  poem,  however,  retains  the  Nippurian  point 
of  view  regarding  the  creation  of  men,  for  here  Nintud  is  con- 
sistently described  as  having  created  them.  It  will  be  seen, 
however,  that  already  in  the  Sumerian  period  of  great  creative 
literature  and  theological  speculation,  a  strong  tendency  had 
arisen  to  accept  the  Eridu  tradition  and  that  the  creation  of  man 
from  clay  at  the  hands  of  a  mother  goddess  began  to  lose  promi- 
nence in  the  teachings  of  the  Nippurian  school  who  moulded  the 
views  of  succeeding  Semitic  theology.  The  Eridu  point  of  view 
is  the  one  accepted  in  Hebrew  tradition,  borrowed  no  doubt 
from  the  Babylonians  of  the  first  dynasty,  and  imbedded  in  one 
of  the  oldest  Hebrew  sources,  "And  God  fashioned  man  of  the 
dust  from  the  ground."^  The  problem  of  giving  animal  vitality 
to  this  creation  of  clay  does  not  appear  in  the  earlier  Sumerian 
sources.  In  fact  the  Babylonian  sources  speak  of  animal  vitality, 
napiSti,*  generally  in  connection  with  animals  only.*  In  any 
case  they  have  not  suggested  an  origin  for  the  inception  of 
vitality  and  intelligence  into  the  creature  whom  Aruru  or  Enki 

'  The  Poem  of  Crealion  and  the  Flood  also  uses  the  lille  a;aj  ^innana-gi,  "  Holy  Innina," 
III  16. 

■NInlud  is  probably  the  deity  who  urges  Ziudsuddu  to  escape  In  a  boat  in  the  Poem  of 
The  Creation  and  the  Deluge.  Note  that  in  Col.  IV  she  wails  for  the  people  and  that  in  Col.  IV 
some  deity  appears  to  be  revealing  to  the  king  the  decision  of  the  gods  to  destroy  mankind. 
This  deity  uses  the  word  na-ri-ga-mu,  1  word  occurring  in  an  address  of  Nintud  to  Taglug  in 
out  text.  Rev.  I  41,  ne-rig-mu,  "My  purging."  The  pronoun  "my"  undoubtedly  refers  to 
Nintud  in  both  poems. 

'  Genesis  3.  7. 

'  Dhorme,  Cboix,  86,  21,  bul  }lri  ii-kttt  ttapilli  ina  flri  iblani,  "The  cattle  of  the  ftetd.  the 
\s  of  the  breath  of  life,  he  fashioned  in  the  field." 

*  Cr.  also  Genesis  1,  30,  34. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — 5UMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  3(> 

had  moulded,*  other  than  the  late  tradition  that  the  blood  and 
flesh  of  a  god  gave  vitality  and  a  soul  to  the  creature  of  clay. 
The  Biblical  statement,  "And  he  blew  into  his  nostrils  the 
breath  of  life*  and  the  man  became  a  living  being,"  has,  so  far 
as  our  material  goes,  no  equivalent  in  any  Sumerian  or  Baby- 
lonian source. 

The  Greek  Tradition  Concerning  Prometheus 

Among  the  Greeks  the  same  tradition  of  the  creation  of  man 
from  clay  became  current  in  the  late  period,  when  it  obviously 
filtered  into  Oriental  Greek  writers  from  Berossus  and  other 
Babylonian  sources.  The  Greeks  attached  this  story  to  their 
god  Prometheus,  who  in  a  general  way  corresponds  to  Enki  in 
Sumero-Babylonian  religion.  Both  are  the  principal  patrons  of 
industrial  arts  in  their  respective  pantheons,  particularly  of 
the  arts  of  pottery  and  metallurgy.  The  classical  description 
of  the  character  of  and  legends  concerning  Prometheus  have 
been  preserved  in  the  Theogony  of  Hesiod  510-607  and  the 
Protagoras  of  Plato  320  D,  but  the  moulding  of  man  from  clay 
does  not  yet  appear  in  these  authors.  Apollodorus,  who  wrote 
at  Athens  in  the  early  part  of  the  second  century  B.C.,  and  who 
knew  the  works  of  Berossus  well,  appears  to  be  the  first  Greek 
writer  to  mention  Prometheus  in  this  connection.    "Prometheus 

'  Both  Enki  and  Aruru  are  designated  by  a  title  wKich  refers  lo  working  at  clay  with  a  pot- 
ter's disk,  \in-4uk-lfa-hnr  (glossed  pa-ba-rum?),  CT,  34,  11,  3)  =  3;,  86,  Is  gjvetf  as  a  title  of 
BilU-ildni  in  connection  with  the  name  Aruru.  On  the  other  hand,  nHn-Ar-fa— ^dut-iaJiur— 
"'Ea  la  pa^ari.  CT.  25,  48.  7,  'nH«-Ar-ra~'"E-a,  VR.  51  B  71.  Hence  duk-lsa-bitr  has  ihe 
Sumerian  locution  nunHrm  and  the  Semilic  value  paf/aru,  potter.  Hence  Aruru  is  bllil  pa^ari, 
"Mistress  of  the  potter,"  patroness  of  Ihe  potter's  art  and  Ea  or  Enki  is  the  patron  god  of  the 
potter.  These  titles  probably  refer  to  the  legends  cited  above.  The  Egyptians  also  have  the 
same  tradition,  for  a  wall  painting  in  ihe  temple  of  Luxor  represents  the  god  Chnuin  in  the  act 
of  moulding  a  man  and  a  woman  on  a  potter's  wheel. 

'niimalb  l/aiilm  has  no  etymological  or  exact  logical  equivalent  in  Babylonian, 


,,  Google 


30  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

having  moulded  man  from  water  and  earth  gave  them  also  fire, 
having  concealed  it  in  a  hollow  stalk  unbeknown  to  Zeus."^ 
Lucian,  who  wrote  in  the  second  century  of  our  era  and  who  was 
himself  an  oriental,  states  in  his  Prometheus  that  Athena  aided 
Prometheus  in  the  creation  of  men.  Athena  in  the  Greek 
religion  corresponds  here  to  Argru  of  the  Babylonians  who 
assisted  Marduk  in  moulding  men  from  clay.  Lucian's  state- 
ment which  he  puts  into  the  mouth  of  Prometheus  himself  is, 
"And  now  according  to  poetic  diction  'earth  with  water  having 
mixed'  and  having  made  it  pliable  I  fashioned  men,  having  also 
then  summoned  Athena  to  aid  me  in  the  work."^  This  story  is 
referred  to  by  Horace  in  the  well-known  lines:  "It  is  said  that 
Prometheus,  having  been  ordered  to  add  to  the  primeval  clay 
a  bit  severed  from  everywhere,'  placed  in  our  hearts  the  passion 
of  a  mad  lion."'  The  same  story  is  told  by  Hyginus  a  Latin 
author  of  the  first  century  B.  C;  "Prometheus  son  of  Japetus 
was  the  first  to  fashion  men  from  clay;  and  afterwards  Vulcan 
by  the  command  of  Jove  made  the  figure  of  a  woman  from  clay 
unto  which  Minerva  gave  a  soul."* 

'  Apollodorus,  1,7,  1;  YlpOfitj^^  Si  J£  vSarof  koX  y^  avSpiuwovi  irXacas  i&aiKtv 
auTOts    KOI   tnip,   \a$pf   Aiof,    Ir  vopdqKt   Kpvpa^. 

'  Lucian,  Ptometbeits,  13;  ini  8^  Kara  tou  irwrfTixov  \oyav  <iyajav  vhti  <f)vpa%'>  naX 
ZiapaXaiai  iviirXacra  rovt  iySpanrotK  tri  Kai  rijv  'Adijraf  irapaitaXarat  frvrdrtAa^nrAu 
^UK  ToS  ipyov.  Orell[,  Comnuntary  on  Horace,  Bk.  I  j6  p,  loS  quotes  this  passage  of  Lucian 
so  that  it  says  that  Athena  breathed  upon  the  clay  and  thus  gave  il  a  sou].  mmapyaitTo  8* 
ivry  KoX  ^  'AftfFo  Ip-wiowa.  roc  m^dv.  It  would  be  interesting  lo  know  how  Orelli 
obtained  this  distortion  of  Lucian  for  it  is  the  only  mention  of  breathing  upon  the  clay  to  give 

*  /.  t.,  some  characteristic  from  each  animal, 

*  Horace,  Carmina  I  16: 

Fertur  Prometheus,  addere  principi 
Limocoactus  particulam  undique 
Desectam,  et  insani  Icon  is 
Vim  slomacho  apposuisse  nostro. 
'Hyginus,  Fabulae  143:    Prometheus  lapeli  filius  primus  homines  ex  luto  finxit;    postea 
Vulcanus  Jovis  jussu  ex  luto  mulieris  efRgiem  fecit  cui  Minerva  animam  dedil. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON— SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  Jl 

Classical  scholars  seem  to  be  agreed  in  assuming  that  the 
legend  of  the  fashioning  of  man  by  Prometheus  came  into  Greek 
mythology  in  the  Alexandrian  period;'  several  drawings  of  this 
mythological  event  are  known  from  the  late  period,  in  which 
Prometheus  fashions  several  youths  from  clay.  In  one  of  these 
scenes  Athena  or  Minerva  presents  to  these  clay  figures  a  dove, 
by  which  the  artist  intended  to  indicate  that  Athena  gave  to 
men  their  souls.^  Orelli,  however,  remarks  upon  the  sixteenth 
ode  of  Horace:  "The  legend  concerning  the  creation  of  men 
from  clay  by  Prometheus  was  unknown  to  Homer  and  Hesiod, 
and  was  first  mentioned  by  Erinna."  Now  Erinna,  a  Greek 
poetess  and  contemporary  of  Sappho,  seems  to  refer  to  this 
story  in  the  following  lines; 

"Out    of  tender  hands  (came)  the  pictures,  oh  most 

agreeable  Prometheus! 
And  men  are  like  unto  thee  in  wisdom."' 

It  would  appear,  therefore,  that  the  story  began  to  invade  Greek 
mythology  as  early  as  the  seventh  century.  We  have  then  no 
conclusive  evidence  for  assuming  that  it  was  borrowed  from 
Babylon,  but  the  rapid  propagation  of  the  myth  after  the 
works  of  oriental  writers  like  Berossus  and  Lucian  became 
widely  known  tends  to  confirm  the  writer  in  this  belief.    The 

'So  TouTAiN  in  the  DUlionaiu  des  AntiquiUi  Cricqius  ct  Rotnaitu!,  p.  681.  Dr.  L.  R. 
Farnell  has  expressed  the  same  opinion  to  me  and  says  that  the  whole  Prometheus  story 
probably  came  from  Babybn. 

'  Dh.  Fahnell,  however,  say*  that  these  youths  are  already  alive  as  they  leave  Ihe  hand 
of  Prometheus,  and  he  thinks  that  Athena  here  gives  the  children  a  bird  to  play  with.  He  says 
that  only  occasionally  on  Creek  monuments  does  a  bird  {not  the  dove)  represent  the  soul.  In 
other  scenes  of  the  creation  in  the  late  Greek  perbd  the  butterfly  invariably  typifies  the  soul 
and  in  these  scenes  Athena  holds  the  butterfly  over  the  head  of  the  newly  created.  Dr.  Far- 
NELL  adds  that  in  the  scene  referred  to  above,  which  is  taken  from  a  sarcophagus  in  the  Louvre 
of  the  Graeco-Roman  period,  the  dove  no  longer  represents  the  soul  and  that  the  older  and 
deeper  idea  has  become  a  playful  motive, 

'Anthologiae   Palatinae,   1    p.   331,   Epigram   353:  'Ef  ijraAiuv  ■xttfAv  rofi<  ypdii/jara. 


,,  Google 


32  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM— BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

Greek  traveler  Democritus  says  that  he  was  at  Babylon,  and 
Clement  of  Alexandria  states  that  Democritus  translated  the 
story  of  Ahiljar  into  Greek.'  This  proves  that  Babylonian 
influence  was  already  exerting  itself  in  Greece  in  the  fifth 
century. 

More  authentic  in  classical  Greek  tradition  is  the  myth  of 
the  fashioning  of  Pandora,  the  first  woman,  and  the  cause  of  all 
human  sorrows.  So  well  known  was  her  creation  by  the  potters 
that  Sophocles  devoted  a  tragedy  to  the  subject  called  "Pandora 
or  the  Forgers."  Only  a  few  fragments  remain,  one  of  which 
has  become  well  known  and  taken  to  refer  to  the  myth  of  Prome- 
theus and  the  creation  of  men: 

"And  to  knead  the  first  primeval  clay  with  the  hands. "^ 
If  this  passage  refers  to  the  creation  of  men  and  not  of  Pandora, 
then  the  poet  surely  referred  to  the  fashioning  of  the  latter  in 
some  lost  passage.  He  apparently  knew  of  her  creation  at  the 
hands  of  several  divine  potters,  for  he  says  in  verses  ascribed  to 
this  tragedy  by  Hermann: 

"Go  ye  on  the  way  now,  all  ye  skillful  people, 
Who  the  grim-eyed  Ergane^  of  Zeus  with  standing 
Winnowing  fans  beseech,  ye  who  beside  the  anvils 
Fashioned  with  hands  soulless  matter. 
Obedient  to  the  heavy  hammer  and  the  blows."* 

'  Diels,  H.,  Fragmtnle  dcr  t'orsokratiktr,  id  ed..  Vol.  1  4jg,  No.  399;    Kiytnu   yap   r^v 
'AmKopou  <rnj\)jc  }piifvtv0fiiTav  toIs  ISims  trovraiat  (rvyypaiifiavi. 

'  Frag.  Soph.  701  in  Bibljotheca  Graecorum  Scriplorum.  p.  j68,  preserved  in  the  Scholae 
of  Hippocrates:    ™l  vpStrov  Apxoy  mjXov  opyditiy  XfpoTi',     The  text  is  not  quite  certain 
regarding   apx°''   but   the  passage   is   dearly   ainnected  *ith    Horace,  Carmina  I   16  so  that 
Sophocles  may  possibly  refer  to  Prometheus  here. 
*  Title  of  Athena  as  the  "worker." 
•See  Frag.  Soph.  ibid.  Frag.  70;: 

Bar'  di  hhov  8^,  irSs  a  ^(UfAvoi  Xtis 
oJ  Tr)v  Aiof  yopySnriv    Bpyavijv   0"roT0« 
XtKvoKJi  irprKTTptjrurOt,  t^c  imp    OK/iOvi 
TvjriSt  ySopei^   KoX    kottOi*   {nr-^KOOV 
o^uxov  uAi)v  Sjj/uoupyoCvTK  xipolv. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADISE  33 

Thus  Sophocles  already  exhibits  traces  of  an  early  belief  in  the 
assistance  of  Athena  who  was  said  (o  have  given  life  to  the 
creature  of  clay.  "Pandora,  whom  the  gods  moulded  as  the 
first  woman,"  says  Apollodorus,'  and  Hesiod  says  that  Vulcan 
made  Pandora  from  clay.*  Others  tell  of  the  origin  of  men  from 
the  semen  of  Ouranos  the  heaven  god,^  a  doctrine  taught  also 
in  Orphic  literature: 

"(I  have  sung)  the  birth  of  powerful  Brimo,  and  also 

the  unhallowed  deeds 
Of  the  earth-born  giants,  who  spilt  from  Heaven  the 

dread 
Seminal  fluid,  the  primeval,  whence  was  generated 
The  race  of  mortals  who  dwell  upon  the  boundless 

earth  forever."* 

This  Professor  Gilbert  Murray  tells  me  is  good  Orphic 
doctrine  and  he  cites  another  line  from  their  teachings: 

"Child  of  earth  am  I  and  of  the  starry  Heaven."* 

A  schola  cited  in  Antbologiae  Palaiinae  p.  270  says  that  Prome- 
theus made  men  from  clay  and  put  into  them  a  voice  and  a  soul. 
A  similar  teaching  from  the  Orphic  collection  is:  "And  man, 
says  Orpheus,  was  moulded  by  God  himself  from  earth  and 
received  from  him  a  reasonable  soul,  even  as  the  all-wise  Moses 
has  revealed  these  things."* 

■  ApoJIodorus,  i,  7,  1:  IlavSii^s,  ijv  ivXaaav  0*di  irptunji'  ywaina, 

'  Heiiod,  Tbiogony  571. 

'Ibid.  18s. 

'Orpheus,  Argonautica,  i7-»o: 

Fifyci'tiui',   01  kvypov  iir'  Ovpavov   lirTa^vro 
S^ipfta  yov^  To  vpovBtv,  odtv  yivos  i^Vfivovro 
©(Tp-iv,  ol  Kori  yuuiv  S.TrtipVTOv  aiiv  •oo'i. 

*r^  inus  tlfU  KM  'Ovpavov  &<rr*p6tmK. 

*Orpheus,  preserved  by  Malala  a  Byzantine  writer;  see  Cory.  Anciint  Fragmtnti  3qS. 


,,  Google 


54  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

Thus  we  see  that  the  Greeks  first  explained  the  inception 
of  life  and  soul  to  the  assistance  of  the  mother  goddess.  This 
assistance  permeates  the  whole  Babylonian  tradition,  but  there 
she  confines  her  work  to  assisting  in  moulding  the  clay.  We 
seem  to  be  here  in  the  presence  of  a  tradition  in  Greece  which 
although  strangely  like  the  Babylonian  is  nevertheless  either 
wholly  independent  or  a  borrowing  modified  by  Greek  thought. 
The  origin  of  the  soul  and  life  was  explained  in  Babylonia  by 
the  fact  that  the  creatress  mingled  the  blood  of  a  god  with  the 
clay.  This  view  seems  to  survive  in  Greece  only  in  the  story  of 
Dionysus  Zagreus;  for  they  said  of  him  that  man's  soul  came 
from  his  blood  and  that  the  body  had  been  made  from  the 
ashes  of  the  blighted  Titans. 

The  Egyptian  View 

The  Egyptians  have  nearly  the  same  story  regarding  the 
creation  of  man.  Here  the  river  god  Khnum,  who  is  frequently 
called  the  potter,'  is  represented  in  the  same  r61e  of  Enki  the 
water  god  of  Eridu.  And  like  Enki  in  Babylonian  symbolical 
mythology  he  has  the  head  of  a  ram  in  Egyptian  representations 
of  him.*  Unfortunately  we  possess  no  details  of  this  legend  in 
Egypt;  our  argument  is  based  solely  upon  the  inferences  which 
we  draw  from  the  sculptures  of  Deir  ei  Bahari  and  Luxor. 
The  former  represents  Khnum  in  the  act  of  moulding  the  em- 
bryonic figure^  of  the  future  queen  Hatshepsut  from  clay  on  a 

'iit(«n  in  Egyptian. 

'  Enki  is  generally  represented  by  a  creature  having  a  ram's  head,  neck  and  fore  shoulders 
with  fore  feet  in  a  crouching  position;   the  body  is  that  of  a  fish. 

'The  god  moulds  two  figures,  one  of  which  the  Egyptologists  explain  as  the  Ka  or  divine 
double  of  the  queen.  In  Egyptian  religion  each  person  had  a  Ka  or  spiritual  protector  which 
corresponds  to  the  "god  ot  a  man"  {ilu  Sa  anuii),  of  the  Sumero-Babylonian  religion.  The 
queen  represents  herself  as  a  man  in  these  sculptures  and  the  two  clay  figures  are  also  those  of 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADISE  35 

potter's  wheel.  The  frog-headed  goddess  Heljet  extends  the  ank, 
sign  of  life,  to  the  nostrils  of  the  clay  figure,  in  order  to  give  it 
life.^  The  sculptures  of  Luxor  represent  in  the  same  manner  the 
ram-headed  Khnum  moulding  the  figure  of  the  future  king 
Amonhotep  III.  Here,  however,  it  is  Hathor^  who  extends  the 
symbol  of  life  to  the  moulded  clay.^  These  scenes,  which  are 
contemporary  with  the  Cassite  period  in  Babylonia,  are  much 
later  than  the  Sumero-Babylonian  legends.  Whether  these 
ideas  are  based  upon  an  earlier  Egyptian  tradition  or  not  I  am 
unable  to  say.  The  similarity  of  ideas  and  details  is  striking 
and  a  borrowing  from  Sumer  seems  to  me  probable.  The  theme 
of  a  life-giving  mother  evidently  runs  through  the  whole  fabric 
of  ancient  mythology  and  has  been  embedded  in  Hebrew  tradi- 
tion in  the  story  of  Eve. 

The    Biblical   Form  of  the  Assistance  of  the   Mother 
Goddess 

In  Genesis  3,  20  we  have  a  tradition  that  the  name  of  the 
first  woman  was  Ijawwd.  a  name  which  probably  represents  a 
survival  of  an  ancient  west  Semitic  mother  goddess.*  Like  all 
other  peoples  the  western  Semites  must  have  worshipped  the 
earth  mother  goddess  and  considered  her  as  the  creatress  of  men. 
fiawwd  has  probably  survived  as  the  first  woman  in  Hebrew 

'See  EOUAKD  Naville,  Dtir  el  Babari,  pan  II,  plale  XLVlll  and  pages  14  ff. 

'  Heljet  is  only  a  local  form  of  Hathor. 

■See  Colin  Campbell,  The  Miraculimi  Birth  of  King  Anton  Hotep  III,  17  f.  and  plate  opp. 
page  28. 

*  Following  their  custom  of  explaining  unintelligible  foreign  words  by  a  native  homophone, 
the  Hebrews  explained  yaami  by  connecting  it  with  the  verb  '"'''J,  to  live,  "be  full  of  life." 
Hence  they  probably  understood  the  name  to  mean,  "Life,  source  of  life."  Semitic  scholars 
have  long  since  rejected  this  explanation. 


,,  Google 


36  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

tradition  after  this  people  had  become  thoroughly  imbued  with 
Babylonian  ideas.  She  yields  her  place  as  the  creatress  in  the 
native  tradition  to  the  Babylonian  teachings  of  Eridu  which 
represents  a  god  as  creator  assisted  by  Nintud-Aruru-Mami  the 
great  goddess  of  childbirth.  Under  the  influence  of  this  myth 
which  they  seem  to  have  borrowed  in  its  entirety  the  Hebrews 
transformed  fiawwd  into  the  mother  goddess  who  assists  in  the 
creation  of  man.  As  wife  of  the  first  man  she  gives  natural 
birth  to  the  first  human  child,  but  the  phraseology  used  by  the 
Hebrew  in  describing  the  birth  of  Cain  is  taken  directly  from  the 
bilingual  poem  of  the  creation  of  man  by  Marduk  and  Aruru. 
For,  as  we  have  seen,  in  that  version  "Aruru  fashioned  the  seed 
of  mankind  with  him."^  And  the  Hebrew  says  of  the  birth  of 
Cain,  "And  she  conceived  and  bore  Cain  and  she  said,  'I  have 
created  a  man  with  Jahweh.'  "'  The  word  used  for  "  with  "  in 
each  language  is  philologically  the  same  and  the  form  of  expres- 
sion shows  clearly  enough  the  survival  of  the  Babylonian  myth. 
i^awwa  like  the  Sumerian  earth  goddess  was  connected 
with  serpent  worship  in  prehistoric  times.  Scholars  have  long 
since  connected  her  name  with  the  Aramaic  word  for  serpent 
Ifoivwi.  That  fiavnvd  really  was  an  ancient  ophidian  goddess 
is  proven  by  the  fact  that  the  name  IJawwai  has  been  found  in 
Phoenician  with  the  title  of  a  goddess.  This  important  inscrip- 
tion, which  preserves  the  only  reference  to  this  lost  deity,  was 
found  in  a  necropolis  at  Carthage  and  belongs  to  a  late  period. 
A  devotee  addresses  a  curse  against  his  enemies  to  her  as, 
"Queen  Hojvwai,'  goddess  and  queen."*     Since  the  imprecator 

'  it-ti-su"  "with  him,"  "in  company  wiih  him." 
» (tb  JaVwih. 

'  This  is  of  course  Ihe  proper  pronuncialion  of  ihe  letters  yVT. 

<So  LiDSBARSKi:  G.  A.  Cooke,  North  Stmitic  Imcriplions  13;  follows  Clermont-Ganneau 
who  renders,  "O  ladies  fieutvatb  Elath  and  Milkath," 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  37 

placed  the  sheet  of  lead  on  which  he  wrote  the  curse  in  a  sepulchre, 
we  have  generally  inferred  fjawwat  to  have  been  an  underworld 
deity.  This  argument  and  these  facts  are  all  accepted  views 
of  Biblical  criticism,  but  the  arguments  from  Babylonian  sources 
have  not  been  used  by  Old  Testament  scholars.  The  author 
has  collected  material  in  the  chapter  on  the  ophidian  and 
oracular  deities  in  Tammui  and  Isbtar^  to  indicate  how  im- 
portant was  the  serpent  character  of  the  Babylonian  mother 
goddess.  In  fact  the  first  sign  used  to  write  her  name  prob- 
ably represents  a  serpent  coiling  about  a  staff.^  Curiously 
the  type  of  mother  goddess  who  became  the  special  patron 
of  childbirth  retains  special  connection  with  this  ophidian 
character.  A  mythological  text  says  that  Nintud,  "From  her 
girdle  to  the  soles  of  her  feet  appears  with  scales  like  a  ser- 
pent."' The  Babylonians  identified  Nintud  with  Serpens  or 
Hydra  in  their  mythology.  Although  none  of  her  titles  which 
we  shall  presently  discuss  reveals  any  ophidian  connection, 
nevertheless,  the  major  mother  type  Innini  or  Ishtar,  especially 
the  local  type  KA-DI  at  Dir  retains  distinct  titles  of  an  ophidian 
character  and  the  facts  adduced  above  complete  the  argument. 
Thus  Aruru-Nintud-Mami,  the  Babylonian  mother  goddess 
who  assisted  Marduk  in  the  creation  of  man,  was  clearly  con- 
nected with  serpent  worship;  this  fact  probably  hastened  her 
identification  with  the  western  fiawwd. 

■Oxford,  Clarendon  Press.  1914- 

'  Ibid.,  113  n.  4  and  PSBA.  1914,  p.  381. 

'  Ibid.,  133  n.  J. 


,,  Google 


je  UNIVEftSrTY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

The  Eridu  Version  of  the  Fall  of  Man. 

Since  the  fashioning  of  the  first  human  pair  by  the  god 
of  Eridu  is  evidently  the  source  of  that  general  Babylonian 
tradition  which  passed  to  the  Hebrews  and  the  Greeks/  we 
should  expect  to  find  an  Eridu  version  of  the  Fall  of  Man 
which  agrees  more  or  less  with  that  of  the  Hebrew.  The  view 
taken  of  this  great  problem  in  the  text  of  tablet  No.  4561  is 
evidently  the  one  taught  by  the  theologians  of  Nippur.  As 
we  have  seen,  they  do  not  raise  the  problem  of  the  origin  of 
sin  as  does  the  Hebrew  version,  but  they  attempted  to  explain 
the  origin  of  disease,  mortality,  the  hostility  of  nature  to  man- 
kind, and  his  subjection  to  endless  toil.  This  side  of  the  prob- 
lem found  its  way  also  into  the  Hebrew.  But  there  it  is  the 
first  man  Adam  whose  disobedience  brought  about  this  infinite 
woe.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Nippurian  theology,  as  repre- 
sented in  our  tablet,  attaches  this  disobedience  to  the  survivor 
of  the  Flood.  Had  the  Sumerians  any  body  of  speculation 
which  regarded  the  first  man  as  having  been  culpable?  We 
have  as  yet  no  Sumerian  source  to  confirm  this  suggestion, 
but  several  Semitic  fragments  of  a  long  poem  known  as  the 
"Legend  of  Adapa"  obviously  support  an  Eridu  teaching  on 
this  subject.* 

■  We  may  of  course  suppose  that  the  Hebrew  version  is  based  upon  an  ancient  Canaanit- 
ish  indigenous  tradition;  Sanchonjathon,  to  whom  we  musl  look  for  such  traditions  among  the 
western  Semites,  has,  however,  no  similar  statement  and  other  Hebrew  mythology  is  closely  con- 
nected with  Sumero-Ba  by  Ionian.  In  case  of  ihe  Creek  myths  concerning  Prometheus  we  are 
not  in  a  position  to  affirm  or  deny  borrowing  from  Babylonia,  but  that  appears  to  be  at  least 
probable.     The  Egyptian  version  is  possibly  independent  of  the  Sumerian. 

'  ZiMMERN  appears  to  have  been  the  first  to  see  the  relation  between  Cen.  3,4-3**  "nd  the 
Adapa  Myth.  This  epic  is  far  from  complete  in  the  present  state  of  our  Assyrian  studies.  The 
first  tablet  or  book  is  undoubtedly  represented  by  Rm.  981+80-7-18,  178  in  CT.  [j,  ji  from 
the  A^urbanipal  Library.  After  a  break  of  unknown  length  we  have  twenty-two  lines  from  an 
Assyrian  cylinder  published  by  Scheil  in  Maspero's  Reciuil  dt  Travaux,  20,  137  ff.  The  most 
important  part  of  the  text  has  been  found  in  the  Amarna  Collection  of  the  Cassite  period,  obverse 
}6,  reverse  j;  lines,  text  in  H.  Wickler's  Tbontafiln  von  EUAmarna  No.  340,  and  collated  by 
Knudtzon,  BA.  IV  138-130,  and  VAB.  II  964-969,    Not  much  can  be  missing  between  Scmeil's 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  39 

This  poem  begins  by  describing  how  the  god  Ea  (i.  e., 
Enki)  created  Adapa  in  the  sea;  whereupon  he  became  mighty,^ 
his  build  became  well  developed,'  his  growth  was  extensive.* 
He  became  skilled  in  navigating  the  seas  by  aid  of  the  winds.* 
Ea  had  equipped  him  carefully,*  and  he  was  exalted  much  in 
fame.*  The  fragment  refers  to  his  great  wisdom,  his  four  eyes 
and  his  lips.  The  Scheel  fragment  goes  on  here  with  the 
description  of  his  wisdom.  Like  Adam  of  the  Biblical  account 
he  possessed  that  infinite  knowledge  which  enabled  him  to  give 
names  to  all  things  with  the  breath  of  life.' 

"  I  caused  him  to  be  equipped  with  a  vast  intelli- 
gence to  reveal  the  forms  of  the  land."' 

ufurat  matt,  the  forms  of  the  lands,  means  in  Babylonian  the- 
ology the  divine  concepts  of  things,  which  exist  in  the  world, 

fragment  and  this  lexl,  A  fragment  K.  874}  published  on  plale  IV  is  said  to  be  a  duplicate 
of  lines  iz-20  of  the  obverse  of  Ihe  Amarna  tablet.  This  is  true  only  in  a  general  sense,  for  this 
fragtnent  differs  considerably;  we  must  infer  that  the  Assyrian  redaction  (to  which  K.  874) 
belongs)  differed  much  from  the  Babylonian  to  which  the  Amarna  text  belongs.  A  fifth  fragment 
of  twenty-two  lines  from  the  Assyrian  version  belongs  somewhere  near  the  end  of  the  epic; 
K.  8314,  published  by  Strong,  PSBA.  1894,  274,  and  collated  by  the  writer.  K,  8743  and 
8114  are  in  the  same  handwriting,  have  the  same  clay  texture  and  belong  to  the  same  copy. 
Rm.  981  is  of  other  color  and  texture  and  the  writing  is  from  another  hand.  K.  63J4  is  from 
the  obverse  of  a  large  single  column  tablet.  Line  6  after  m  I  read  j^I_.  Line  9  t^X.- 
Line  10  » — Ai.  Line  1 1,  Nil  is  wholly  uncertain.  Line  ao,  I  see  ^.  The  sign  in  line  6  is 
probably  el  but  I  do  not  know  the  construction  tl  ki-ma  for  "more  than."  I  would,  however, 
render  [ki]hit-sit  tH?)kitna  ki-til  ^A-nu  man-nu  u-at-lar,  "Who  has  made  his  command  to 
exceed  the  command  of  Anu?"    At  the  beginning  of  line  30  I  would  restore  [miir-ilH. 

'  i-ii-il-ma,  Rm.  981  Rev.  4;  pri.  of  elilu 

'lam-iat  nab-ni-sa.  Rev.  6. 

'  [Jl■^fll-^'  ii-tn-iii. 

'i-ril  mi^i.  "skilled  with  storms." 

* ul-4a-ai-hi-l*m-ma,  I II*  of  w*fl,  to  fix  firmly,  to  prove,  examine.  See  for  this  root  VAB. 
IV  359;  allam  <WaM  fu^i-iM  (II  Inf.),  "in  order  to  inspect  the  field."  CT  ag,  5,6.  bil*"Enlil 
blli-ia  ttS-U-ii-ii-ma.  Messerschmidt,  KTA.  1  III  5.  cf.  II  11,  iu-U-h-bi-u  "(which)  bad  been 
made  well."    ana  'iu-U-ii-bi-i,  King,  Bd.  St.  17,  38. 

•  lu-nf-iw  ma-'  -dii. 

'  Genesis  3,  19  f, 

'  ui-iut  rapal-bim  u-iakAil-lu  u-su-ral  mSli  kul-lu-mu.  Frag.  Scheil  3. 


,,  Google 


40  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM— BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

as  well  as  their  outward  material  forms.  The  idea  which  God 
has  of  a  thing  constitutes  its  reality,  fixes  its  fate;  its  out- 
ward form  is  the  result  of  this  divine  idea.  To  design  the 
ufurtu  of  a  thing  is  to  fix  its  fate  (Simtu)  and  to  give  it  a  name 
(lifrnw).  The  Hebrew  says  that  whatsoever  Adam  called  each 
living  thing  of  the  field  and  each  bird  of  the  sky  that  was  its 
name.^  Philologically  the  Babylonian  word  for  "name,"  Sumu 
and  the  Hebrew  cognate  Sent,  have  no  connection  with  the  word 
for  "fate,"  Simtu,  but  the  Babylonians  regarded  the  name  of 
a  thing  as  its  reality.  The  names  of  things  define  the  divine 
concept  of  them,  and  to  name  a  thing  practically  means  in 
their  theology  to  determine  its  essence.  The  Hebrew  state- 
ment really  coincides  with  the  Babylonian  statement  concern- 
ing Adapa. 

Ea,  says  our  poem  further,  gave  unto  Adapa  wisdom  but 
not  eternal  life.'  Ea  created  him  like  a  sage  among  men.^ 
The  Anunnaki,  sons  of  the  water  god  and  divine  spirits  of  the 
waters  of  the  lower  world,  gave  him  his  name.^  The  Biblical 
account  also  represents  Adam  as  a  seer  of  great  wisdom  who 
defined  the  names  of  living  things.  The  kind  of  wisdom  which 
he  did  not  have  seems  to  have  consisted  in  the  knowledge  of 
right  and  wrong,  the  consciousness  of  the  distinction  between 
purity  and  impurity,  modesty  and  obscenity.     But  this  limi- 


iDB':    Babylonian  iHmu,   Arabic  ii'mu,  ismu.     This  word  has  apparently  n 
with  the  verb  D^t?,  Siiim,  Arab.  Idma,  [o  fix.  determine,  whence  litnlu  fate. 
'  Frag.  Scheil,  4. 

*  ""Ea  ii'-md  rid-di  ina  a-me-lu-li  ib-ni-lu.  Assyriologists  have  argued  from  this  passage 
that  Adapa  was  not  the  first  man  since  he  is  spoken  of  as  living  among  men.  It  would  not  be 
wise  to  test  a  mythological  and  poetic  statement  by  the  strictures  of  logic.  In  any  event  Adapa 
belongs  to  the  first  race  of  men  (see  Dhorme,  i  58,  1 1  last  fragment  of  the  Adapa  legend,  where 
Adapa  is  the  fir  amel&li,  "seed  of  men,"  "ancestor  of  the  human  race)  and  he  was  created  by 
the  creator  god  Ea, 

*  So  Dhorme,  149  "■  8,  which  see  for  other  views  which  make  Adapa  one  of  the  Anunnaki. 
But  no  passage 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  41 

tation  should  not  obscure  the  important  fact  that  the  wisdom  of 
Adapa  is  also  in  a  large  measure  attributed  also  to  Adam.  And 
the  Hebrew  like  the  Eridu  version  regards  this  hero  as  mortal.' 
The  Babylonian  poem  describes  Adapa  as  one  clean  of 
hands,  a  priest  who  anoints,  who  studies  the  divine  instruc- 
tions. He  joined  with  the  bakers  in  preparing  food  for  Eridu. 
He  prepared  the  sacred  table  for  the  cult  of  Enki  and  removed 
it.  He  sailed  on  the  Persian  Gulf  to  catch  fish,  the  trade  of 
Eridu.*  The  Scheil  Fragment  breaks  off  with  the  description 
of  how  Adapa  sailed  out  to  sea  with  a  fair  wind,  guiding  his 
ship  with  an  oar.^  The  south  wind,  however,  blew  furiously 
and  threw  him  into  the  sea.*  Whereupon  in  rage  he  broke 
the  wings  of  the  south  wind,  who  for  seven  days  ceased  to  blow. 
Anu  the  heaven  god  sends  his  messenger  to  investigate,  who 
-  reports  that  Adapa  broke  the  wings  of  the  south  wind.  Upon 
hearing  this  Anu  rose  from  his  throne  and  cried,  "  Bring  him 
to  me."'  And  so  Ea  knew  that  which  the  heaven  god  said* 
and  he  took  Adapa,  and  caused  him  to  have  boils^  and  clothed 
him  in  a  coarse  mourner's  garment.  Before  his  departure  to 
appear  before  the  heaven  god  Ea  gives  him  the  following 
advice: 

'  Genesis  3,  J9. 

■Fishing  was  naturaJly  the  important  business  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  seacoasi  city. 
The  passage  has  been  generally  misunderstood:  ba'irutit  dak&tn  !a  (il)Ertdi  ippul,  "Fishing 
the  trade  of  Eridu  he  practises."  daltMu  is  a  variant  of  dikitu,  literally  "a  summoning,  a  call- 
ing."   Cf.  da-ku-uf  sabl-ia  alkun,  Messerschmiiit,  KTA,  t)  1  )0. 

■{(Munii,  "oar or  punt-pole,"  here  used  as  a  rudder.  Hardly  "rudder"  in  the  modem  sense. 
Read  ina  [i(u)fi-mul-'ii-ma,  and  for  gil-gi'mul,  belonging  to  the  equipment  of  a  ship  see  Gen- 
ouiLLAC,  TSA.  26  Rev.  I.  Without  determinative  gil  in  Allotte  de  La  FuVe  55  V,  offerings 
to  the  ii-mn!  of  the  god  Nindar. 

*a-«a  bi-i4u  beAi-ia  M-Sa-am-ii-i-tl-an-ni,  "(The  south  wind)  caused  me  lo  descend  unto 
the  house  of  my  lord;"  see  Dhorme,  Cboix.  i^i  n.  3, 

>  Anu  commands  that  Adapa  be  brought.  This  is  cleariy  the  meaning  of  the  passage, 
Knudtion,  against  Dhorme,  i;;,  i). 

•  For  the  text  see  VAB.  II  964,  14.  an-ni-ka-a  ""f-d  la  lami  i-di,  "And  so  Ea  knew  that 
which  was  ol  heaven." 

^  nu-la-a,  I.  I ;  is  certain  from  K.  8743,  13. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


"Adapa  before  Anu  the  king  thou  shalt  go. 
[When  thou  takest  the  way  of  heaven],'  when  unto  heaven 
Thou  ascendest,  when  to  the  gate  of  Anu  thou  drawest  nigh, 
At  the  gate  of  Anu,  Tammuz  and  Giszida  will  stand. 
They  will  see  thee,  they  will  question  thee.    'Oh  man 
For  whom  are  thou  become  so?    Adapa  for  whom* 
a  mourner's  garment  dost  thou  wear?'     'In  our  land  two 
gods  have  disappeared. 


rath  of  Anu  and 


'  Reslore.  iarran  iami  ina  labsti-ka,  from  Rev.  i. 

'  K.  8743  conlains  the  ends  of  la  lines  of  the  section  which  describes  the  n 
Ihe  instructions  of  Ea.  Dhorme  edited  this  fragment,  Cboix  156-9,  but  he  was  not  aware  that 
the  lines  originally  contained  much  more  at  the  left.  In  fact  Ihe  Assyrian  version  has  a  different 
account  of  Ea's  intrigue  to  cause  mankind  lo 


.""^-n. 


.,-J«| 


i-kdi-bi 
■tar  tip-T, 


m-m-]ii  i«a  it- 
ma  ug-\gal  lib- 
i-Up-par 


[tarrana   uiajiatjuma   ana   ""E-a   mjii- 
du-H  lib-bi  ilini  tab&U 

[U )  PI-  i-bat-mm 

|l«-«  H-ti-bi  a-na  bit  ^'E-a]  iar-ri  ka-U-di 

I ]ma  a-ma-li  uUa-bil 

U-da-pa  ik-iu-ud-ma  if-*<-)!i<  o-m  iar-ri 

*"'E-a 

ri  il-tap-pa-aU-iu\ 

[""E-a     ia-si-su    Tap-!a]ut-ni    mu-du-u 

Ub-bi  ilani  rahUli 
la-tia llame-e  u-kan-lu 


ma-la-a  ul-tai-U-iu 

.  .  u-ba-lil'tna  kar-ra  ul-lap-piAis-st 


\(e-ma  il-kuH-lu  a-ma-]la  i-kab^i-hi 

"'A-mVar-ri  al-ta 
■tna-ti  fa-bat 
i-li-ka  a~]na  bibi  *"^.m 


U-da-pa  a-na  p 

ia-lak-ma 
\Uiiii  1u-la-\bil-m 


ina  bibi      A-ni      Dumu-ii  11 
da]  ii-ia-a{-pi 


"at- 


ility.     My  restorations  are  conjectural. 
When  Anu  heard  ihis  report. 


1,  be  cried.  Help!  saying  In  the  wrath  of 
his  heart, 

3.  "i-rf  Ibem bring  bim  tome.     A  messenger 

he  sends, 

4.  Causing  bim  to  take  tbe  way  unto  Ea, 

knower  of  the  hearts  of  the  great  gods. 
'    5.  who  investigates  Ihe 

6.  This  one  wenl  Jortb  to  come  unto  the 

house  ol  Ea.  ihe  king. 

7.  He and  he  was  much  concerned 

about  the  affair. 

8.  Adapa  be  found  and  took  him  unto  ihe 

9 he  touched  him. 

10.  Ea,  tbe  wise,  the  intelligent,  knower  of 

the  heart  of  the  great  gods, 

11.  Against  Ihe   of  heaven  he  con- 

firms him. 
13 boils  he  caused  him  to  bear. 

13.  He  mlb  bis  ....  made  foul  and 

clothed  him  with  a  mourner's  garment. 

14.  Advice  be  gave  bim,  addressing  him  an 

injunction. 

15.  "Ob  Adapa  thou  goest  before  Anu  the 

16.  My  advice  think  on  and  keep  my  in- 

junction. 

17.  When  urdo  beaven  tbou  ascindest,  when 

unto  the  gate  of  Anu  Ihouapproachesi, 

18.  at  tbe  gate  of  Anu  Tammttj  and  Gii^ida 

will  stand." 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF   PARADISE  43 

Therefore  I  am  thus  become.'     'Who  are  the  two  gods 

who  from  the  land 
have  disappeared?'    'They  are  Tammuz  and  Giizida.' 

These  shall  look  at  each  other, 
and  cry  aloud.'    These  a  favorable  address 
unto  Anu  shall  speak.    The  beaming  face  of  Anu 
they  shall  cause  thee  to  behold.    When  before  Anu  thou 

standest, 
food  of  death  they  will  hold  out  to  thee; 
not  shalt  thou  eat.    Water  of  death  they  will  hold  out 

to  thee; 
not  shalt  thou  drink.    Clothing  they  will  hold  out  to 

thee; 
clothe  thyself.    Oil  they  will  hold  out  to  thee;  anoint 

thyself. 
The  advice  that  I  gave  thee  not  shalt  thou  neglect. 

The  injunction 
that  I  said  to  thee  mayest  thou  hold  fast." 

Provided  with  this  ruse  to  obtain  the  intercession  of  the  guards 
of  heaven's  gate,  Adapa  ascends  to  heaven.  In  the  guise  of 
a  mortal  attending  the  wailings  for  the  dying  gods  he  excites 
the  compassion  of  these  ascended  deities  who  present  him  to 
Anu.  Without  affording  these  divine  patrons  the  opportunity 
of  interceding  Anu  demands  of  this  mortal  his  reason  for  break- 
ing the  wings  of  the  south  wind.  He  explains  how  this  wind 
upset  his  boat  and  threw  him  into  the  sea.  Here  Tammuz 
and  GiSzida  stand  beside  Adapa  and  intercede  for  him.  It 
is  evident  from  what  follows  that  Tammuz  and  GiSzida  explained 
to  Anu  that  Ea  had  revealed  wisdom  unto  this  man  and  had 
initiated  him  into  magic  so  that  he  was  able  to  control  the  winds 

'  A  root  iibu,  CO',  is  certain  from  CT.  29,  49.  3  ^aikadu  naksu  islfr,  "a  severed  head  cried 
out,"  These  two  gods  utter  a  cry  of  woe  in  memory  of  the  death  which  they  had  suffered  as 
vegetation  gods. 


,,  Google 


44  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

by  his  curse.'  He  had  also  taught  him  modesty  and  given 
him  fame.  This  revelation  of  wisdom  had  thus  brought 
him  into  conflict  with  the  go.ds  for  he  now  possessed  power  to 
oppose  them.  Anger  had  entered  into  his  heart  also  and  had 
caused  him  to  be  violent.  And  so  Anu  pardons  this  mortal 
and  utters  the  following  remarkable  words: 

"Why  has  Ea  to  mankind  impure  the  matters  of  heaven 
and  earth  revealed,  and  a  coy  heart^ 
created  in  him  and  made  him  a  name?" 

The  gods  do  not  appear  to  envy  man  the  wisdom  of  under- 
standing the  realities  of  things  but  the  knowledge  of  good  and 
evil,  the  sense  of  decency  and  consciousness  of  imperfections. 
The  Eridu  version  claims  that  man  obtained  this  knowl- 
edge by  revelation  from  his  creator  the  wise  Ea  and  that  Anu 
discovered  it  in  the  way  described  above.'  The  Hebrew  ver- 
sion does  not  represent  the  possession  of  philosophical  insight 
into  the  meaning  of  things  as  dangerous  to  man.  Only  the 
consciousness  of  indecency  do  the  gods  envy  him  and  this  he 
obtained  by  eating  of  the  tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and 

'  Al  the  end  of  hU  speech  Adapa  says  that  in  his  anger  he  cursed  Ihe  soulh  wind,  al-la- 
za-ar,  see  Dhorme  i;5,  i8.  This  verb  Is  used  in  a  magical  sense,  see  Muss-Arnolt,  Lexicon, 
66t. 

*li-ib-ba  ka-ap-ra,  "a  covered  hearl,"  one  smeared  over  with  cunning,  rusi.  So  I  believe 
this  passage  should  be  interpreted.  We  must  look  here  for  a  parallel  lo  the  result  of  attaining 
wisdom  by  Adam  and  Eve  in  Gen.  3,  7.  "  And  the  eyes  of  both  of  them  were  opened  and  they 
linew  that  they  were  nalied,  and  they  sewed  together  fig  leaves  and  made  for  themselves  aprons," 
"A  covered  heart"  I  interpret  to  mean  a  heart  ashamed  of  indecency,  a  mind  aware  of  imper- 
fedi.'ns  which  man  attempts  lo  conceal.  Dhorme  renders  U-ib-ba  ia-ab-ra  "a  strong  heart," 
but  this  hardly  does  justice  to  the  insight  of  the  passage. 

■  The  story  of  the  breaking  of  the  wings  of  the  wind  is  a  clumsy  invention  to  explain  how 
Anu  discovered  that  man  had  attained  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  Nothing  that  Adapa 
had  done  should  have  caused  Anu  to  make  such  inferences.  There  Is  also  nothing  in  his 
appearing  as  mourner  for  the  dying  gods  which  could  give  any  cause  for  such  suspicion.  In 
fjct  Anu's  discovery  is  wholly  gratuitous.  The  Adapa  legend  although  il  discusses  the  same 
problems  falls  far  bebw  the  Nippur  version  as  well  as  the  Biblical  in  literary  imagination.  In 
both  of  the  others  we  have  a  real  reason  given  for  the  discovery  of  man's  illegitimate  knowledge. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDOK — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  45 

evil.  In  the  main  Hebrew  version  this  results  in  the  loss  of 
Paradise  and  the  entering  into  the  world  of  toil  and  sorrow. 
And  in  the  issue  of  his  disobedience  this  threat  is  fulfilled: 
"By  the  sweat  of  thy  brow  thou  shalt  eat  bread  until  thou 
returnest  to  the  ground,  for  from  it  thou  wast  taken;  because 
thou  art  dust  and  unto  dust  thou  shalt  return." 

The  Eridu  version  makes  man  mortal  from  the  beginning, 
or  at  any  rate  credits  him  only  with  extreme  longevity.  When 
the  father  of  the  gods  at  the  gates  of  heaven  discovered  that 
a  certain  kind  of  knowledge  had  been  given  unto  him  he  ex- 
pressed concerning  this  revelation  words  from  which  we  may 
perhaps  infer  that  this  wisdom  would  bring  woe  to  mankind. 
Obviously  the  Eridu  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  the  main 
Hebrew  source  are  independent  theological  masterpieces,  both 
attempting  to  explain  the  loss  of  Paradise,  but  both  develop- 
ing an  explanation  upon  similar  independent  lines. 

The  Nippurian  version  in  our  tablet  undoubtedly  starts 
with  the  supposition  that  man  in  Paradise  is  originally  a  per- 
fectly moral  being  but  the  problem  as  to  his  ejection  is  obscure. 
1  shall  attempt  to  state  the  argument  of  this  version  and  its 
relation  to  the  Eridu  and  Hebrew  versions  subsequently. 

The  Legend  of  Adapa  has  now  a  curious  dinouement. 
As  in  the  Bible  so  here  the  principle  motive  is  to  explain  how 
mankind  lost  his  boundless  happiness.  After  Ann's  expression 
of  astonishment  at  the  revelation  of  knowledge  to  man  he 
decides  to  complete  his  likeness  to  the  gods  by  bestowing  upon 
him  immortality; 

"Now  what  shall  we  do  for  him?    Bread  of  life 
offer  to  him,  let  him  eat."     Bread  of  life 
they  offered  to  him;  not  did  he  eat.     Water  of  life 
they  offered  unto  him;  not  did  he  drink.    Clothing 


y  Google 


40  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

they  offered  him  and  he  clothed  himself.'    Oil 

they  offered  him  and  he  anointed  himself. 

Anu  beheld  him  and  cried  in  astonishment  at  him, 

"Come,  oh  Adapa,  why  hast  thou  not  eaten,  not  drunk? 

Not  shalt  thou  remain  alive." 

And  so  Adapa  is  dismissed  from  the  courts  of  heaven  and 
brought  back  to  earth.  For  the  further  events  in  this  version 
of  the  Fall  of  Man  we  must  depend  upon  a  fragment  of  the 
Assyrian  copy  which  does  not  permit  us  to  obtain  a  very  clear 
idea  of  the  issue.  The  fragment  belongs  to  the  obverse  of  a 
rather  large  tablet,  consequently  we  know  nothing  about  the 
last  fifty  or  more  lines  of  this  ixJ«ni.  The  first  lines  contain 
a  somewhat  different  phraseology  of  the  scene  in  heaven.  In 
fact  K.  8214  is  a  duplicate  of  the  last  lines  of  the  Amarna  or 
Canaanitish  version  but  the  phraseology  differs  so  greatly  that 
scholars  have  failed  to  detect  this  fact.' 

I iw-M I       1 and  he 

2.  [iam-na]  ik-bi-ium-ma  iu-ti  ip-     !       2.  Oil  he  commanded  for  him  and 

[pa-lii\  j  he  anointed  himself. 

3.  [fu-]ba-ta  ik-bi-ium-ma  iu-u  il-  3.  Clothing  he  commanded  for  him 

la-bii  I  and  he  clothed  himself. 

'  This  passage  is  parallel  to  Ihe  statement  in  Ihe  Hebrew  where  Jahweh  makes  tunics  of 
skin  for  Adam  and  Eve.  These  passages  follow  immediately  upon  the  loss  of  immorlality  in 
both  compositions, 

*  K,  8743,  fragment  of  the  Assyrian  version  transcribed  and  translated  above  page  43  shows 
how  widely  and  materially  the  Assyrian  version  differed  from  the  Canaantiish  found  at  Amarna. 
In  fact  the  Amarna  text  cannot  be  an  Assyrian  or  Babylonian  product  for  it  contains  words 
peculiar  to  Canaanitish;  as  annika  obv.,  14  and  ka  la.  This  text  belongs  to  a  version  written 
in  the  Canaanitish  region.  It  differs  so  materially  from  the  Assyrian  that  we  must  assume 
other  serious  divergencies  which  will  be  detected  when  we  recover  more  of  the  text  from  each 
version.  The  striking  similarity  between  the  Canaanitish  leit  and  the  Hebrew  proves  that 
the  Western  Semites  developed  an  independent  argument  based  upon  the  Babylonian  material. 
The  serious  disagreement  between  the  Amarna  text  and  the  Assyrian  is  extremely  important 
for  the  whole  problem  of  the  relation  of  Hebrew  sources  to  the  Babylonian  and  Assyrian.  Direct 
borrowing  must  be  given  up.  In  fact  the  Canaanites  seem  to  have  developed  Babylonian  tradi- 
tions upon  independent  lines  for  many  centuries  b^ore  the  Hebrews  incorporated  them  into 
their  documents. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPrC  OF   PARADISE 


47 


4 *''A-nu  ana  ep-tit  ""£-fl 

ia-kii  i-fi-i^-ma  [igabbi] 

5.  [ilani\'ia  iami-e  u  ir^i-tm  ma4a 

ha-iu-u  man-nu  ki-a-am  lu  ik- 

M 

6.  [ki-Ybit-su  el  ki-ma  ki-btt  ''"A-nu 

man-nu  u-ai-tar 

7.  [. . .  .A-\dtfi-pa  iitu  i-Ud  iami't     \ 

ana  e-lat  iami-e  I 

8.  [ ip-]pa^is-ma  pu-lu^ia-lu     \ 

i-mur  j 

9.  [ina  u-]nti*-iu  ''"A-nu  ia  A-da'pa     \ 

e4i-iu ta  H-kun  ' 

10.  {aluY-ki  Id  '''E-a  iu-ba-ra-iu  iU 

kun 
II     ...  .gU'US-su   ana   d  -kdi    H-rne 

ana  lu-pi-i  hm-tam  i?'Um?* 

12.  [ina  (J-Jmi  A-da-pa  (i-ir  a-mi-lu' 

ti 

13.  [ina. . .  .]ni-iu  ial-tH  kap-pi  iu- 

A-ti  ii-bi-ru 

14.  [A]  a-na  lami-e  e-lu-u  U-i  lu-u 

ki-a-am 

15.  [ii-]ia-kan  u  ia  litn-nii  ana  niU 

ii'iak-nu 


4 Anu  because  of  the  deed  of 

Ea  cried  loudly  saying, 

5.  "Of  the  gods  of  heaven  and 

earth  as  many  as  there  be 
who  verily  would  have  com- 
manded thus? 

6.  Who  makes  his  command  to  sur- 

pass the  command  of  Anu?" 

7 Adapa  from  the  horizon  of 

heaven    to    the    zenith    of 
heaven 
8 looked  and  saw  its  gran- 
deur. 
9.  Then   Anu,  as  regards   Adapa, 

upon  him  placed. . . .'. 
10.  OJ  the  city  of  Ea  he  instituted 
sacerdotal  rights*  for  him. 

II his  priesthood  to  glorify 

unto  far  away  days  as  a 
destiny  he  fixed. 

12.  At  the  time  when  Adapa  the 

seed  of  mankind 

13.  with  his cruelly  broke  the 

wings  of  the  south  wind, 

14.  and  ascended  to  heaven,  this 

verily  so 

15.  is  issued.    And  whatsoever  of  ill 

this  man  has  brought  upon  men 


Likewise  in  tine  3  all  signs 

twenty  years  ago.  fortunately 


'i-^N.]MES.  AN  can  no  longer  be  read  on  the  tablet 
before  TA  are  now  broken  away.  Strong,  who  copied  this  te; 
read  the»e  signs  before  they  crumbled  away. 

'  No  sign  can  be  seen  before  hit. 

'  DA  K  not  certain  but  possible. 

'The  end  of  the  sign  mi  can  be  read. 

'  Or  restore  m-dug-(k{)  —  Eridu. 

•i-lint  is  wholly  uncertain.     I  read  ^fe  TT^  • 

'  The  loss  of  this  word  from  our  text  is  regrettable.  Apparently  Anu  places  upon  Adapa 
some  kind  of  sorrow.  My  collation  has  \^  ^^J^.  I  thought  at  first  to  read  t-li-Su-ma 
mi-Ui  ii-kun,  but  the  traces  are  against  this. 

'iubarS  is  some  kind  of  a  religious  privilege  entitling  the  inhabitants  of  certain  cities  to 
the  revenues  of  the  temples  and  freedom  from  national  taxation. 


,,  Google 


48  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

16.  [h]  mur-fu  Sa  ina  lumur  niU         16.  and  the  disease  he  has  brought 

il-tak-7iu  upon  the  bodies  of  men, 

17.  [iu-]a-tum  ''"Nin-kar-ra-ak   u-         17.  the  goddess  Ninkarrak  will  allay 

na-a^^u^  it. 

18.  [lit]-bi-ma  si-im-mu  mur-ju  lis-         18.  May  illness  depart,  may  sick- 

liur  ness  turn  aside. 

19.  [eli   ameli]   iu-a-ium   iar-ba-tu         19.  Upon  this  man  may  his  horror* 

lim-ku-ma  fall. 

20 sit-tum  iab-ium  la  i-fal-         20 sweet  sleep  not  shall  he 

lal  enjoy. 

21 lal    bu-urdu    nu-ug  lib-bt  21 ?,  joy  of  heart  of  men.* 

viSi 
22 D/4'bi  22 

Unfortunately  this  fragment  allows  no  decision  concern- 
ing the  loss  of  eternal  life  in  the  Assyrian  version.  However, 
we  may  assume  that  it  contained  essentially  the  same  story 
of  Adapa's  rejection  of  the  bread  and  water.  Nevertheless,  the 
text  preserves  a  few  precious  lines  which  show  that  Anu,  father 
of  the  gods,  places  a  curse  upon  humanity  because  of  Adapa. 
As  to  whether  these  human  sorrows  were  brought  into  the 
world  because  Adapa  had  surreptitiously  received  the  revela- 
tion of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  or  because  he  had 
refused  the  offer  of  immortality,  our  text  remains  equivocal. 
The  story  of  the  breaking  of  the  wings  of  the  south  wind  is 
a  motive  incomparably  less  effective  than  the  scene  of  the  temp- 
tation in  the  Hebrew  story.  The  Eridu  version  both  in  the 
Assyrian  and  Canaanitish  redaction  leaves  little  opportunity 
for  any  wilful  disobedience  on  the  part  of  man.  Yet  his  sin 
is  equally  fatal,  for  he  attained  forbidden  knowledge  and  lost 

>  Sic!    I  cannot  explain  the  overhanging  vowel. 

>  ^arba-lu,  probably  in  the  sense  of  horrible  action,  or  conduct, 

■  This  line  should  refer  to  the  loss  of  happiness  of  mankind  caused  by  Adapa,  but  I  can 
find  no  interpretation  for  bUdu  or  piidu  which  suils  the  context,  b&du,  piUit  has  two  meanings, 
"shoulder,"  and  "staff."  or  "part  of  an  axe." 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  49 

for  humanity  eternal  life;  through  the  jealous  designs  of  the 
water  god  it  is  true,  and  not  by  his  own  choice,  nevertheless 
the  same  penalty  follows.  Adapa  brought  woe  and  disease 
upon  men,  and  his  own  sorrows  became  the  most  horrible  of 
all.  But  the  gods  send  a  patroness  of  medicine  to  heal  man- 
kind; Gula  or  Ninkarrak  in  fact  is  the  goddess  of  healing  par, 
excellence  in  Sumero-Babylonian  religion.  On  the  analogy  of 
the  Nippur  version  of  the  text  we  may  suppose  that  this  Eridu 
version  ended  by  describing  the  mission  of  other  patrons  of 
civilization  sent  by  the  great  gods  to  console  humanity. 

The  NipPURiAN  Version  of  the  Fall  of  Man  on  the 
Tablet  in  the  University  Museum 

In  handling  the  different  teachings  concerning  the  loss  of 
Paradise  we  must,  in  order  not  to  fall  into  grievous  error,  regard 
each  body  of  teaching  as  the  result  of  independent  speculation 
in  different  theological  centers.  At  Eridu  the  catastrophe 
results  almost  wholly  through  intrigues  of  a  god.  Man  is 
here  not  a  free  agent,  but  the  pawn  of  the  higher  powers.^  All 
the  versions  start  with  the  supposition  that  when  man  was 
created  he  enjoyed  perfect  happiness  in  paradise,  oblivious  to 

'The  Eridu  teaching  takes  the  view  that  Enki,  the  water  god,  revealed  not  only  theological 
or  mystic  wisdom  unto  Adapa  (to  which  the  other  gods  did  not  object)  but  also  the  knowledge 
of  good  and  evil,  a  possession  he  should  not  have  had  even  for  his  own  good.  And  Enkj  appears 
to  have  done  this  out  of  jealousy  of  the  other  gods,  Adapa  was  his  own  creation  to  whom  he 
wished  to  teach  all  wisdom  and  all  knowledge.  We  must,  however,  not  make  too  much  of  the 
Enki  motive.  He  appears  as  a  revealing  god  also  in  the  Babylonian  Flood  story  where  he  warns 
Uta-naplStim  of  the  plan  of  the  gods  to  destroy  men.  Here  again  he  betrays  the  plans  of  the 
gods  to  man  and  here  for  man's  good.  In  the  Adapa  legend  Enki's  revelation  of  the  knowledge 
of  good  and  evil  seems  to  be  brou^t  in  solely  as  a  means  of  explaining  how  Adapa  acquired  this 
knowledge.  Nevertheless,  all  the  Adapa  versions  agree  in  describing  the  gods  as  jeabus  of 
man's  attaining  immortality  or  of  his  knowing  the  difference  between  good  and  evil. 


,,  Google 


50  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

the  existence  of  indecency,  to  the  knowledge  of  right  and 
wrong  and  possessed'  of  perfect  health.  The  major  Hebrew 
version  also  concedes  him  great  wisdom  if  I  rightly  understand 
it.  The  Nippurian  school  allows  that  men  inhabited  Paradise 
until  the  Flood  which  seems  to  have  been  brought  about  by 
the  creator  god  Enki  because  men  did  not  show  respect  unto 
him.  However  this  may  be,  the  problem  of  the  origin  of  sor- 
row is  not  propounded  in  the  teachings  of  this  school  until 
after  the  Flood.  We  hear  nothing  of  any  famous  forbear  at 
the  beginning  of  things  who  possessed  vast  intelligence.  Only 
after  the  Flood  does  Enki  begin  to  reveal  wisdom  unto  Tag- 
tug  the  gardener.'  And  the  statement  in  regard  to  this  reve- 
lation must  be  taken  with  caution  for  the  text  is  obscure.  It 
is  clear,  however,  that  after  the  Flood  Enki  becomes  intimate 
with  this  gardener.  Our  tablet  is  obscure  regarding  the  orig- 
inal state  of  man  in  respect  to  immortality.  1  infer,  however, 
that,  like  the  theologians  of  Eridu,  it  also  assumes  that  man 
did  not  possess  immortal  life.  In  the  Flood  they  dissolve 
like  tallow,  says  our  text,  and  there  seems  to  be  no  reference 
here  to  even  a  lost  opportunity  of  attaining  this  infinite 
boon. 

Enki's  conversation  with  Tagtug  in  the  secret  chamber 
of  the  temple  is  broken  by  a  damaged  portion  of  the  tablet 
at  the  top  of  the  second  column  of  the  reverse;  but  shortly 
after  we  read  of  various  plants  which  grew  in  the  garden,  and 

'  This  pari  of  the  Nippurian  version  which  makes  Tagtug  a  gardener  is  probably  connected 
with  the  account  of  J.  in  Hebrew  which  describes  Noah  as  a  gardener  afier  the  Flood,  Gen. 
9,  18-37.  The  Hebrew  describes  him  as  the  first  husbandman  and  founder  of  vine  growing. 
In  Hebrew  we  appear  to  have  here  an  attempt  to  alleviate  the  troubles  of  humanity  caused 
by  the  barrenness  of  the  soil  after  God  had  cursed  it.  This  is  the  interpretation  generally  put 
upon  Gen.  5.  39.  The  planting  of  the  vine  is  not  mentioned  in  our  text,  but  the  r6le  of  Tagtug, 
after  the  Flood  is  obviously  that  of  a  patron  of  agriculture  who  redeems  the  earih  made  barren 
by  the  Flood, 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  $1 

that  the  mother  gcuJdess  commanded'  Tagtug*  to  take  and  eat 
from  all  except  the  cassia.  We  must  assume  that  the  goddess 
had  placed  this  plant  in  a  special  category  after  the  list  of 
plants  from  which  she  allowed  mankind  to  eat.  For  when  we 
reach  the  name  of  the  cassia  the  phraseology  used  in  connec- 
tion with  the  previous  plants  changes,  and  it  is  called  the  plant 
whose  fate  Ninharsag  had  determined.  This  goddess  had  obvi- 
ously forbidden  Tagtug  to  eat  from  the  cassia,  for  immediately 
after  he  takes  and  eats  he  is  cursed  with  human  frailty.  The 
Anunnaki,  who  as  children  of  Enki  were  the  special  friends  of 
the  newly  created  men,'  sat  in  the  dust  to  weep  over  this  dire- 
ful calamity.  Ninharsag  in  rage  regrets  that  she  had  created 
mankind.  In  a  broken  passage  at  the  top  of  Rev.  Ill  which  ■ 
follows  the  story  of  the  Fall  we  find  Ninharsag  and  the  earth 
god  Enlil  planning  to  send  divine  patrons  to  assist  fallen 
humanity.  Of  this  latter  motif  we  have  a  trace  iri  the  Eridu 
version  where  Ninkarrak,  i.  e.,  Gula,  is  sent  to  heal  disease 
which  entered  into  the  world  because  Enki  had  revealed  knowl- 
edge unto  Adapa.     The  Nippurian  text  names  eight  divine 

'  MK'iia-ab-bi:  the  root  bi  is  used  in  the  sense  of  "to  name,  proclaim."  only  in  the  syllabar, 
9}038  Rev.  7  in  CT.  u.  ii.  In  connected  texts  bi  is  invariably  used  in  the  sense  of  "lo  speak, 
lay.  command,"  Assyr.  JaM.  By  taking  Ninharsag  as  the  subject  and  by  giving  bi  its  ordinary 
meaning  we  have  a  sense  in  keeping  with  Genesis  3,  16.  "And  Jahweh  commanded  (IIH)  man. 
saying,  'from  every  tree  of  the  garden  Ihou  shalt  eat,  but  fn>m  the  tree  of  the  knowledge.of 
good  and  evil  thou  shalt  not  eat.'  "  In  the  translation  which  I  fonnerly  gave  out  I  Interpreted 
mu-tta-ab-bi  by  "he  named"  and  took  lugal-inu,  i.  i.,  Tagtugiot  the  subject.  This  of  course 
led  lo  the  inference  thai  Tagtug  named  the  plants;  I  was  influenced  here  by  the  Biblical  narra- 
tive, in  which  Adam  is  said  to  have  given  names  to  all  living  things.  This  view  is  probably 
erroneous.  The  Sumetian  verb  for  "to  give  a  name  to"  is  mH-id-d  =  )mi>u  nabU,  "to  proclaim 
a  name,"  or  simply  nabd  to  name.  Cf.  CT.  i),  )6,  4:  \tTi\atag-ga  kidur  lag-dug-ga-ge-e-nt  ma 
mai-a  mi-ni-in-ti-a''ilu  il-lum  lu-bat  ftt-ui  lib-lri-hi'nti  ji-ri!  iM~bu-n,  "The  holy  city,  abode 
of  their  hearts'  ioy,  he  named  with  a  far-famed  name," 

•  In  Rev.  II  the  name  Taglug  is  not  mentioned,  but  he  is  referred  to  i.%  lugal-ntu  "my  king," 
as  in  Obv.  Ill  9.  In  fact  this  hero  does  not  receive  the  name  "Tag-tug  until  after  the  Flood. 
Rev.  I  36. 

*  Note  also  in  the  Eridu  version  of  the  Fall  that  it  is  the  Anunnaki  who  give  Adapa  his 
name.    See  Dhorme.  Cboix  148,  8  and  above  page  40. 


,,  Google 


52  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

patrons;  over  against  these  1  here  place  the  patrons  of  civiHza- 
tion  in  the  Hebrew  (J)  narrative. 


SUMERIAN. 

1.  /tint,  patron  of  pastures,  and 

flocks.' 

2.  NirUulla,  patroness  of  cattle. 

3.  Nitt'KA-uiud    patron(Mi?)    of 

health. 

4.  Ninkasi,  patroness  of  the  vine 

and  of  drinking. 

5.  Naji,  patroness  of ? 

6.  Dajima,  patroness  of ? 

7.  Nititil,  patroness  of  femininity. 

8.  Enfagmi,  patron  of  wisdom. 


Hebrew. 

1 .  Abel,  patron  of  flocks. 

2.  Cain,  patron  of  agriculture.* 

3.  Enoch,  patron  of  city  life. 

4.  'Irad.* 

J.  Mlhiji&'il,*  patron  of  health. 

6.  Mitb^sbHab.^ 

7.  Lamecb,'  patron  of  psalmody. 

8.  Jabdl,  patron  of  tents  and  flocks. 

9.  Jabdl,  patron  of  music. 

10.  Tahdl-Cain,*  patron  of  smiths.^ 


'  Ab-tt  is  a  title  of  Tammui  Ihe  god  of  vegetation  who  dies  for  his  people.  In  early  civil- 
ization the  king  of  a  city  or  a  human  substitute  was  put  to  death  in  the  cult  of  the  dying  god, 
see  Tammui  ■'"^  Isbtar  35  f.;  Frazer,  Adoni%,  AUit  and  Osiris  84.  It  is  difficult  to  see  how 
the  slaying  of  Abel  by  the  jealous  Cain  in  Gen.  4,  1-16  can  be  based  upon  the  idea  of  a  human 
sacrifice  in  honor  of  the  dying  god  of  vegetation.  Nevertheless  the  .story  in  Hebrew  seems 
to  have  been  told  to  explain  this  ancient  custom.  In  the  Hebrew  Cain  is  the  founder  of  agri- 
culture (Gen.  4,  a6)  and  we  know  that  the  whole  Tammuz  story  arose  in  ttie  idea  ttiat  a  king 
might  thrive.  Abel,  moreover,  clearly  personifies  the  sheep  neces- 
t  first  offered  only  fruits,  but  Abel  offered  the  first  born  of  animals, 
e  acceptable.  The  killing  of  Abel  appears  to  be  based  upon  the 
lan  being  died  that  Ihe  plants  might  thrive.  Later  arose  the  theory 
jbstituied   for  this  human  sacrifice,   but  animals  only.     Hence  the 


n  died  that  agticultur 
sary  for  sacrifice;  Cain  a 
and  only  the  latter  wen 
ancient  theory  that  a  hun 
that  animals  might  be  si 
Cain  and  Abel  story  combines  both  the  ancient  and  the  later  practices.  In  Sumerian  religion 
the  idea  of  the  human,  who  symbolizes  the  dying  vegetatbn,  becomes  a  dying  god  who  returns 
to  earth  as  symbol  of  reviving  vegetation. 

■t'p  in  the  name  T&bal-Cain,  patron  of  the  smiths,  clearly  means,  "the  smith,"  Arabic 
iain,  but  in  the  name  of  the  first  son  of  Adam,  the  vrard  has  probably  ito  connection  with  this 

*So  J.,  Gen.  4,  18;   P.  has  Jtrtd,  Gen.  5,  15. 

*  Or  MlhouiS-ll:  P.,  Mabatal-il  The  name  is  probably  for  ?K'?np,  "God  makes  alive," 
or  "Cod  is  my  enlivener." 

•So  P„  Gen.  5, 11:  J.  has  MitbouihS-il.  "Man  of  God"(?).  The  correct  reading  is  doubt- 
ful, and  all  interpretations  given  for  both  readings  are  dubious. 

'  Lamub  is  a  Hebrew  transcript  of  lum^a,  the  Sumerian  title  of  Enki(Ea]  as  patron  of  the 
temple  musicians,  CT.  a;,  48,  ii;  14,  4),  I30.     See  Babylmian  Lilurgiis  XXIV  f. 

'The  last  three  names  appear  to  be  of  western  origin  and  attached  to  the  earlier  Canaan- 
itish  tradition  which  was  obtained  from  Babylon. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADJSE  55 

The  Hebrew  regards  these  patrons  as  direct  descendants 
of  the  first  man,  whereas  the  Sumerians  say  that  they  are  of 
divine  origin.  The  Hebrew  list  like  the  Sumerian  follows 
directly  upon  the  story  of  the  Fall.  When  we  consider  that 
the  Nippur  version  also  agrees  with  the  Hebrew  in  making  the 
eating  of  a  plant  or  tree  the  direct  cause  of  the  Fall  of  Man, 
it  becomes  evident  that  the  Hebrew  has  been  greatly  influenced 
by  the  doctrines  of  the  Nippur  school. 

Our  text  describes  the  curse  only  in  one  line:  "The  face 
of  life  until  he  dies  not  shall  he  see."'  "Life"  in  Sumerian 
means  "good  health,"  and  we  can  hardly  be  wrong  in  under- 
standing this  passage  to  mean  that  the  great  sorrow  caused 
by  the  Fall  is  bodily  weakness  and  rapid  decay.  In  Adapa's 
fall  we  read  only  of  the  bodily  miseries  which  entered  the 
world.  The  Hebrew  too  mentions  the  pain  of  woman  in  child- 
birth as  the  first  of  human  woes.*  Neither  the  Nippur  nor 
the  Adapa  version  mentions  the  ejection  from  Paradise.'  Per- 
haps this  part  of  the  story  is  peculiar  to  the  Hebrew.  Human 
sorrow,  toil  and  misery  surely  afflicted  men  in  the  land  of  Dil- 
mun  which  the  Sumerians  and  Babylonians  knew  so  well.  The 
ejection  at  all  events  points  no  moral  to  the  tale. 

The  Nippur  text  represents  the  Fall  as  following  directly 
upon  eating  of  the  cassia.  No  revelation  of  the  knowledge 
of  good  and  evil  is  mentioned.  The  curse  of  Ninharsag  seems 
to  be  caused  by  disobedience  and  this  is  the  sole  motif  we  can 

'  The  verb  ba-ra-aH-hat-ri-en,  Rev.  II  j8,  may  be  sec.  per.  sing.,  since  the  ending «+«  could 
well  be  an  emphatic  form  of  the  sec.  per.  ending  e;  cf.  bl-ib-ii-il-<,  Var.  im-ii-il~ti-in^lulalU(, 
SBP.  198,  ly  Bui  the  verb  ba-dig-gi-a  which  must  have  the  same  subject  is  in  the  third  per. 
It  is  better  to  regard  e+n  as  an  emphatic  3d  per.  future.     Sum.  Cr.  {(313  f. 

'Gen.  3,  16.  Naturally  tbe  Eridu  doctrine  may  have  mentioned  other  sorrows  like  the 
Hebrew  in  tbe  last  lines  of  tbe  Adapa  legend  which  breaks  oU  at  the  point  disease  is  mentioned. 

*  The  Nippur  text  infers  that  after  the  Fkiod  the  earth  was  barren  and  needed  irrigation,  so 
that  we  may  conclude  that  this  school  believed  that  the  deluge  ended  the  blissful  state  of 
Paradise.     Only  disease  and  brevity  of  life  had  not  yet  entered  tbe  world. 


,,  Google 


54  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

read  into  this  the  earliest  of  all  doctrines  on  the  Fall  of  Man. 
The  plant  in  question  if  connected  with  either  of  the  two  trees 
mentioned  in  the  composite  narrative  of  the  Bible  must  be 
identified  with  the  tree  of  life.  Our  text  has  am-ga-ru  before 
which  the  determinative  for  plant  (ri)  must  be  supplied.  This 
is  clearly  identical  with  am-ia-ra,  or  Semitic  kasu,  cassia,  the 
most  important  of  all  medical  plants  in  antiquity.^  It  is,  how- 
ever, not  necessary  to  assume  that  the  pundits  of  Nippur,  or 
the  myth  makers  of  early  Sumer  regarded  the  cassia  as  a  plant 
capable  of  bestowing  eternal  life  upon  those  who  ate  its  fruit 
or  chewed  its  leaves.  The  Hebrew  undoubtedly  knew  of  such 
a  plant  and  the  same  legend  appears  in  the  Assyrian  Epic  of 
Gilgamish.*  Since  Tagtug  actually  ate  from  the  cassia  and 
consequently  brought  disease  into  the  world,  the  plant  could 
not  have  been  regarded  as  a  "tree  of  life,"  in  the  sense  of  the 
later  Assyrian  and  Hebrew  legends.  Undoubtedly  the  Sume- 
rians  regarded  the  cassia  as  having  marvelous  healthgiving 
properties,  but  I  do  not  believe  that  we  have  here  any  theory 
concerning  a  plant  capable  of  bestowing  immortality.  The 
theory  taught  by  the  early  Sumerian  sages  seems  to  be  as 
follows:  Man  in  Paradise  had  perfect  health,  extreme  lon- 
gevity,^ and  lived  peacefully  without  toil.  For  some  reason 
not  explained  to  us  he  failed  to  show  respect  to  Enki  his  creator, 
and  hence  all  but  a  few  pious  were  destroyed.  In  this  universal 
deluge  Paradise  also  disappears  and  thereafter  man  must  live 
by  toil.  Wherefore  after  the  deluge  Tagtug  becomes  a  gar- 
dener, a  human  raised  to  the  station  of  a  god,  for  he  has  now 

'See  PSBA.  1914,  191. 

*One  of  the  main  moli/s  in  this  epic  is  ihe  search  for  the  plant  whose  narne  is.  "The  old 
man  shall  be  made  young."  The  [egend  of  a  tree  or  plant  capable  of  bestowing  imntortality 
occurs  only  here  in  Babylonia  and  Is,  1  believe,  of  comparatively  late  origin. 

*  See  obverse  I  14  f. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  55 

this  title.'  The  problem  of  the  origin  of  sin  does  not  concern 
them.  They  put  forward  no  theory  in  regard  to  it,  their  only 
teaching  in  this  regard  is  that  sin  is  a  purely  religious  matter. 
It  consists  in  disrespect  toward  the  gods  and  in  nothing  more 
or  less.  But  the  Flood  eliminates  all  the  wicked.  After  the 
deluge  Tagtug,  and  we  presume  his  pious  mariners,  continued 
a  different  life  in  Paradise.*  The  earth  had  now  become  hostile, 
wherefore  the  survivor  of  the  deluge  became  a  tiller  of  the  soil. 
Such  was  the  explanation  of  the  loss  of  Paradise.  But  a  more 
serious  misfortune  was  now  to  follow,  namely  the  entrance  of 
disease  and  abbreviated  mortality.  To  explain  this  the  sages 
of  Nippur  taught  that  the  mother  goddess  had  forbidden  man 
to  eat  from  the  cassia.  This  command  he  disobeyed  and  lost, 
as  we  have  seen,  pre-diluvian  longevity.  They  do  not  appear 
to  have  held  any  views  concerning  mystic  powers  which  this 
plant  might  bestow,  so  that  the  interdiction  of  the  cassia  is 
wholly  arbitrary.  As  our  text  stands  the  only  reason  for  this 
injunction  seems  to  be  that  of  testing  the  obedience  of  man. 
I  fail  to  find  any  other  meaning  here.  In  a  sense  the  mother 
goddess  is  the  temptress  who  caused  this  great  disobedience. 

Have  we  here  the  origin  of  the  temptation  of  Adam  by 
his  wife  Eve?  We  know  that  Eve  like  Ninharsag  was  originally 
an  ophidian  mother  goddess.  Has  this  led  further  to  the  Hebrew 
story  concerning  the  serpent?  In  Hebrew  mythology  the 
ophidian  as  well  as  the  goddess  character  of  Eve  seems  to  have 
been  lost  sight  of.     Perhaps  her  serpent  origin  is  retained  in 

'  The  fact  that  Tagtug  has  the  divine  title  ii  here  to  be  explained  by  the  Sumerian  habit 
of  raising  kings  to  the  rank  of  the  gods  during  their  reigns.  This  custom  became  established 
during  the  period  of  the  Ut  dynasty  several  centuries  before  our  tablet  was  written.  It  can 
not  have  the  same  sense  as  the  translation  of  UtanapiStim  to  the  lands  of  the  blessed  where 
he  attained  immortality. 

'Also  the  Biblical  narrative  P.  Gen.  1-3,  4''+j+6,  9  ff.,  knows  of  no  expulsion  from  Para- 
dise, but  in  the  days  of  Noah  the  world  became  full  of  violence  and  wickedness,  wherefore  Jahw^ 
sent  the  deluge.    (Gen.  j.  39  is  taken  from  J.) 


,,  Google 


56  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

the  peculiar  form  in  which  we  know  it  there.  Suppose  that 
the  general  tradition  obtained  that  a  serpent  goddess  placed 
this  daring  temptation  before  man.  Suppose  that  by  the 
involved  crossing  of  ideas  in  the  evolution  of  this  legend  the 
goddess  became  the  consort  of  this  sorely  tried  ancestor  of 
man.  Evidently  the  serpent  alone  would  be  left  to  figure  as 
the  tempter.  Such  seems  to  be  the  probable  construction  we 
must  place  upon  this  story.  Here  it  has  a  doctrinal  aspect. 
The  sages  of  Nippur  solve  these  problems  with  the  minimum 
of  mythological  structure.  The  temptation  does  not  appear  in 
their  sacred  books.  But  obviously  imaginative  folklore  sought 
at  once  to  restore  the  old  motifs,  if  in  fact  they  had  ever  given 
them  up.  It  is  conceivable  that  to  these  expounders  of  Sume- 
rian  theology  the  story  of  a  goddess  temptress  was  current 
mythology.  In  any  case  their  theories  about  the  origin  of 
toil,  the  hostility  .of  nature  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  origin  of 
bodily  weakness  on  the  other  are  based  upon  views  wholly 
different  from  those  taught  in  the  legend  of  Adapa.  They 
place  the  whole  guilt  upon  man  as  a  free  agent.  They  do  not 
represent  the  gods  as  envying  him  knowledge  of  any  kind. 
Here  man  from  the  beginning  passed  from  catastrophe  to 
catastrophe  because  he  himself  failed  to  have  the  inflexible 
will  to  obey  the  gods. 

The  Hebrew  Tradition 

The  oldest  Hebrew  document  which  traces  the  history  of 
man  from  his  creation  to  the  days  of  Terah  and  Abraham/ 
or  the  mythological  and   theological   reconstruction  of  their 

'This  document  is  roughly  a  follows:  Gen.  2,  4''-4+5,  19+6,  1-4+6,  5-8+7,  i-ia  + 
16-17+31  f+S,  6+ia+30-3i+!),  18-27+11,  1-9+38-jo.  For  minutiae  of  textual  division 
see  the  commentaries  on  Genesis. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  57 

history  when  analyzed  will  be  found  to  be  another  product 
evolved  from  the  Babylonian  doctrines.  Here  the  loss  of 
Paradise  and  the  entrance  into  the  world  of  disease  to- 
gether with  the  hostility  of  nature  to  man  follow  shortly 
after  his  creation.  He  appears  to  have  enjoyed  the  peace  of 
Paradise  for  only  a  brief  period.  For  In  his  Paradise  the  creator 
God  had  placed  a  tree  called  the  "Tree  of  the  knowledge  of 
good  and  evil."  But  Adam  like  Adapa  was  initiated  into  the 
most  profound  philosophical  knowledge.  In  wisdom  he  lacked 
only  the  awareness  of  indecency.  Otherwise  his  knowledge 
equaled  that  of  the  gods.  This  kind  of  knowledge  could  be 
obtained  by  eating  from  this  tree,  a  fact  which  he  did  not  know. 
And  his  creator  added  the  threat  that  in  the  day  of  his  eating 
thereof  he  would  fall  a  victim  to  disease.'  Then  a  woman  is 
created  for  his  consort  to  whom  a  serpent  reveals  the  true 
meaning  of  the  forbidden  tree.  She  ate  and  she  gave  also  to 
her  husband,  whereupon  their  eyes  were  opened  and  they  lost 
their  innocence.  Whereupon  woman  is  afflicted  with  the 
pangs  of  childbirth  and  subserviency  to  man.  And  for  man 
God  cursed  the  earth,  whereby  he  henceforth  lived  only  by 
toil.     Both  are  expelled  from  Paradise. 

Theologically  this  story  is  a  masterly  combination  of  the 
Eridu  doctrine,  known  to  us  only  in  the  Semitic  legend  of 
Adapa,  and  the  doctrines  of  our  Nippur  tablet.  The  Adapa 
legend  has  influenced  the  Hebrew  particularly  in  causing  the 
Fall  to  be  placed  at  the  beginning  of  civilization  and  in  attrib- 
uting the  origin  of  disease  to  the  forbidden  possession  of  the 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil.     In  Adapa's  case  temptation  does 

•"Dying  thou  shah  die,"  Gen.  J,  17,  obviously  refers  to  the  beginning  of  bodily  weakness 
and  attenuated  mortality.  The  Babylonian  verb  milu,  cognate  to  the  Hebrew  verb  employed 
here,  is  often  employed  in  this  sense. 


,,  Google 


58  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

not  figure  in  the  problem.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Nippur 
teaching  has  given  them  the  idea  of  a  tree,  which  under  influence 
of  the  Eridu  school  they  construct  into  a  tree  of  knowledge. 
For  given  on  the  one  hand  the  doctrine  that  man  of  his  own 
wilful  disobedience  ate  of  the  fruit  of  a  tree,  and  on  the  other 
that  his  fall  was  due  to  the  revelation  of  knowledge,  the  ancients 
inevitably  formed  a  legend  regarding  a  tree  of  knowledge. 
Moreover,  the  idea  of  temptation  latent,  and  innocently  so  in 
the  Nippur  doctrine,  here  becomes  an  important  factor.  The 
sin  is  explained  not  alone  as  a  wilful  act  but  as  the  act  of  a  will 
overcome  by  the  cajolery  of  woman.  This  factor  is  original 
in  Hebrew.  The  idea  of  a  woman  tempter  in  Sumerian  is 
wholly  different.  Here  she  is  the  ophidian  mother  goddess 
who  places  temptation  before  man  only  in  that  she  forbids 
him  to  eat  to  test  his  obedience.  But  as  we  have  seen  the 
Nippurian  doctrine  based  probably  upon  a  richer  and  more 
concrete  mythology  easily  gave  rise  to  the  serpent  tempter 
and  the  woman  in  Hebrew. 

In  the  ultimate  analysis  of  the  origin  of  human  suf- 
fering the  Hebrew  like  the  tablet  No.  4561  traces  its  cause 
to  man's  own  frailty.  His  wavering  will  fails  to  comply  with 
the  plain  injunctions  of  deity.  We  have  in  neither  document 
any  trace  of  divine  jealousy,'  nor  any  erroneous  action  whose 
cause  could  be  traced  to  superior  instigation  as  in  the  Adapa 
teaching. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  seem  to  have  an  equally  ancient 
Hebrew  document  embedded  in  the  text  of  Genesis  2  and  3 
which  incorporated  more  cleaHy  the  teachings  of  Eridu.  Here 
in  a  gloss  in  verse  9  of  chapter  2  we  hear  of  a  tree  of  life. 

'  The  serpent  accuses  God  of  jealousy  (3.  j)  but  Ihis  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  the  doctrine 
held  by  the  author  of  J. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  59 

And  at  the  end  of  chapter  2  we  again  come  upon  traces  of  this 
document  which  knows  of  the  same  tree  forbidden  in  Paradise. 
"And  Jahweh  Elohim  said,  'Lo,  man  has  become  like  one  of 
us  in  knowing  good  and  evil  and  now  lest  he  put  forth  his 
hand  and  take'  from  the  tree  of  life  and  eat  and  live  forever.' 
And  so  he  drove  out  the  man  and  caused  him  to  dwell  east 
of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  and  he  stationed  the  cherubim,  the 
flaming  sword  which  revolves  to  guard  the  way  of  the  tree 
of  life." 

This  document  probably  adopted  the  Eridu  teaching  con- 
cerning the  acquisition  of  knowledge,  attributing  it  to  a  sur- 
reptitious revelation  by  a  god.  Here  too  the  gods  envy  man 
this  knowledge  and  take  steps  at  once  to  prevent  his  attain- 
ing immortality.  The  Eridu  school  also  raise  the  problem  of 
man's  loss  of  immortality  in  connection  with  his  acquisition 
of  knowledge.  It  is,  therefore,  reasonable  to  suppose  that  a 
Hebrew  document  which  depended  upon  that  source,  would  raise 
the  same  problem.  Now  this  teaching  regarding  eternal  life  for 
man  is  late  in  Babylonia.  Such  a  thing  could  not  occur  as 
possible  in  the  Sumerian  schools  whose  whole  attitude  toward 
man  regarded  him  as  dust  of  the  earth  to  which  he  must  inevit- 
ably return.  But  a  longing  after  this  priceless  boon  gave  rise 
to  that  widespread  belief  that  after  all  the  gods  possess  bread 
and  water  which  bestow  eternal  life,  or  that  in  some  far  away 
Paradise  grows  an  herb  of  healing  to  infuse  mortals  with  im- 
mortality. In  Babylonian  tradition  this  plant  was  well  known, 
and  the  same  idea  traveled  westward  to  the  Hebrews.  They 
too  adopted  this  same  theory  that  man  lost  immortality  through 

■  The  MT.  has  here  03,  "also"  which  implies  in  Ihe  same  source  also  a  tree  of  know)* 
edge.  The  Septuagint  and  ihe  Syriac  texts  omit  01  and  this  is  surely  the  correct  text. 
It  then  follows  that  D*^nn  fy,  "tree  of  life"  in  i,  9  stands  in  a  false  position  there  and  has 
deranged  the  text. 


,,  Google 


6o  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

the  jealousy  of  the  gods;  here  by  being  expelled  from  Eden 
before  they  proceeded  to  eat  from  the  tree  of  life,  there  because 
a  jealous  god  had  advised  his  prot^g^  not  to  partake  of  the 
bread  of  life. 

The  story  of  early  Hebrew  origins  as  told  by  the  priests 
of  a  later  age  speaks  of  no  Paradise  and  mentions  no  sin  until 
the  days  of  Noah.'  We  may  infer,  ex  silentio,  however,  that 
this  document  supposed  that  in  the  long  ages  ruled  over  by 
the  ten  patriarchs  men  lived  in  a  sinless  state  enjoying  extreme 
longevity.  According  to  this  narrative,  in  the  days  of  the 
tenth  patriarch  the  world  became  full  of  violence,  wherefore 
God  destroyed  all  but  this  patriarch  and  his  family  in  the 
deluge.  This  scheme  of  the  priestly  writer  agrees  with  the 
theologians  of  Nippur.  That  Hebrew  narrative  makes  the  Flood 
begin  on  the  17th  day  of  the  second  month,  the  text  of  tablet 
No.  4561  on  the  ist  of  the  first  month.  There  it  rises  five 
months^  and  recedes  until  the  27th  of  the  second  month  of  the 
next  year,  in  all  one  year  and  ten  days;  here  the  flood  endures 
eight  months  and  nine  days.  Thus  the  priestly  narrative 
approximately  agrees  with  the  tablet  No.  4561  in  the  chronol- 
ogy of  the  Flood.  On  the  other  hand,  the  older  Hebrew  story 
makes  the  waters  rise  40  days  and  recede  21  days,  a  much 
shorter  period.  This  chronology  agrees  more  closely  with  that 
of  the  Semitic  Babylonian  story  where  the  waters  increase  six 
days  and  cease  the  seventh.  At  a  distance  of  twelve  double 
hours  march^  UtanapiStim  sees  the  top  of  a  mountain.  The 
time  taken  to  reach  it  is  not  given,  but  after  the  landing  he 
waits  seven  days  to  send  forth  a  dove.     Since  he  sends  two 

'  Gen.  1-2.  4  a+5+«,  i-h. 
'  One  hundred  and  fifty  dayj, 

'  Thai  is  obviously  the  meaning  of  the  Babylonian  poem;  see  Dkorme.  Cboix  1 1  j  note  on 
line  [40. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  6j 

Other  birds  at  intervals  we  suppose  that  seven  days  separated 
these,  so  that  we  have  the  same  story  as  that  of  the  ancient 
(J)  narrative  in  Genesis  8,  6-12,  where  Noah  sends  three 
birds  at  intervals  of  seven  days  each.  Hence  we  have  on 
the  one  hand  the  long  chronology  of  the  Sumerian  account  and 
the  priestly  Hebrew  narrative,  and  on  the  other  the  short  chro- 
nology of  the  Babylonian  version  and  the  ancient  Hebrew  docu- 
ment. In  a  sense  the  revelation  of  wisdom  to  Tagtug  the  gardener 
in  the  tablet  No.  4561  is  parallel  to  instructions  which  God 
reveals  to  Noah  in  the  priestly  document.'  Both  conversa- 
tions follow  immediately  after  the  Flood.  If  the  priest's  nar- 
rative in  Hebrew  knew  of  any  further  story  of  the  disobedience 
and  loss  of  continued  good  health  which  should  follow  here 
he  has  left  us  no  trace  of  it.  Nevertheless  his  close  adherence 
to  the  theories  of  the  Nippur  school  is  clear  enough.  After 
the  Flood  he  fills  in  the  history  from  that  event  to  the  age  of 
Abraham  by  a  genealogy  of  nine  patriarchs,  whose  lives  are  of 
considerable  length.'  Nevertheless  even  here  we  have  a  rapid 
decline  in  longevity  and  the  ages  of  these  are  on  the  whole 
less  by  half  than  those  of  the  ten  patriarchs  before  the  deluge. 
The  Babylonians  also  told  of  the  incredible  ages  of  the  heroes 
before  this  catastrophe.  We  are,  I  believe,  on  safe  grounds 
in  assuming  that  in  agreement  with  the  sages  who  wrote  our 
epic  of  the  Fall  of  Man  there  was  in  Babylonia  a  deeply 
rooted  tradition  that  the  greatest  of  all  catastrophes,  the  loss 
of  long  life,  overtook  mankind  only  after  he  had  lived  in  Para- 
dise for  many  ages.  Such  I  believe  to  have  been  the  doctrine 
adopted  by  the  scribe  to  whom  we  owe  the  priestly  narrative  in 

iGen.  9,  i-8. 

"Gen.  11,  :o-36.  Omitling  Shem  who  belongs  to  the  race  before  the  Flood,  we  have 
Arpaklad  438  years,  Shelah  433.  'Eber  464,  Peleg  Jjg,  Re'u  3)9,  SerQg  3)o,  NShflr  148,  and 
Terah  3o;,     (Masoretic  text;  Samaritan  and  Greek  differ  slightly.) 


,,  Google 


62  UNtVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

Hebrew.  He  surely  pursued  his  investigations  beyond  the  Sem- 
itic poems  of  Babylonia,  rehearsed  by  the  Canaanites  before  the 
Hebrew  occupation.  He  must  have  come  under  the  influence 
of  the  great  Babylonian  renaissance  which  set  in,  in  the  middle 
of  the  seventh  century;  an  age  when  the  scholars  of  Babylon 
studied  the  theological  systems  of  their  remote  past.  The 
theologians  of  Nippur  particularly  attracted  them  as  we  know 
from  their  corpus  of  temple  liturgies.'  The  tablet  which  forms 
the  subject  of  this  volume  proves  the  profundity  of  their  think- 
ing in  the  region  of  ethics  and  philosophy.  We  venture  to  think 
that  no  document  has  yet  been  recovered  from  the  ruins  of 
the  past  to  which  such  a  volume  of  influence  can  be  traced 
from  our  own  civilization  for  the  immense  period  of  four  thou- 
sand years.  The  great  Hebrew  documents,  which  propound 
the  harassing  problem  of  the  origin  of  human  sorrows,  would 
have  been  impossible  without  the  pious  and  scholarly  teach- 
ing of  these  pre-Semitic  poets  of  Nippur.  And  we  all  realize, 
perhaps  too  little,  the  incalculable  influence  which  these  Hebrew 
masterpieces  have  exercised  upon  the  ethical  and  religious  men- 
tality of  a  considerable  portion  of  the  human  race. 

The  Babylonian  Tradition  Concerning  the  Pre- 
DiLuviAN  Period 

Old  Testament  critics  speak  of  Gen. '4,  16-23  (J)  ^^  the 
Cainite  genealogy,^  and  the  ten  patriarchs  of  Gen.  5  (P.)  as 
the  Sethite  genealogy.  The  earlier  list  of  the  J.  document 
with  its  seven  patriarchs  is  obviously  based  upon  the  Sumero- 

'  See  the  Inlroduction  lo  the  author's  Babylonian  Liturgies, 

'  For  genealogical  purposes  Abel  is  not  included  in  this  list.  But  when  the  list  is  understood 
in  its  true  perspective,  Abet  must  be  included,  since  this  document  places  upon  him  the  r6le  of 
patron  of  flocks  and  originator  of  animal  sacrifice. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  63 

Babylonian  tradition  of  divine  patrons  of  industries.  The  early 
Hebrew  legend  constructed  these  into  a  genealogy.  The 
Sethite  genealogy  of  the  later  P.  document  although  employing 
all  of  the  seven  earlier  patron  names,  except  for  obvious  reasons 
Abel,  in  more  or  less  modified  forms  and  in  slightly  different 
order  has,  as  is  well  known,  attempted  to  reproduce  the  Babylo- 
nian scheme  of  ten  legendary  kings  who  ruled  during  the  432,000 
years  before  the  Flood.  The  Babylonian  kings  in  this  legend 
were  not  all  divine  patrons  but  some  were  famous  mythological 
rulers  who  belong  to  that  period  of  longevity  before  the  Fall  of 
Man.  The  Hebrew  in  both  documents  has  thoroughly  trans- 
formed the  Babylonian  sources.  The  list  in  Gen.  5  reproduces, 
it  is  true,  the  spirit  of  the  Babylonian  legend  of  the  ten  kings, 
in  that  it  holds  them  to  be  rulers  in  a  long  dynasty  and  largely 
misunderstands  those  who  had  a  connection  with  the  arts.'  In 
fact  this  genealogy  has  largely  replaced  the  names  of  the  Baby- 
lonian by  the  names  of  Hebrew  patrons  of  civilization,  whose 
meanings  were  clear  to  J.,  but  wholly  misunderstood  by  the 
authors  of  P.  This  Babylonian  list  which  is  preserved  only  in 
the  fragments  of  Berossus^  seems  to  contain  both  Sumerian  and 
Semitic  names.  I  translate  so  far  as  possible  in  order  to  show 
that  they  are  not  all  based  upon  the  idea  of  patrons  of  the 
arts; 

I .  'AXtupos,   Alorus,   of    Babylon,    a    Chaldean.      Source 
unknown.'     Reigned  36,000  years. 

■  Note  how  P.  changes  Mebijiiet,  a  name  connecled  with  healing,  into  MdhMM-H,  "  Praise 
of  God."  For  Cain  which  at  least  in  Gen.  4,  33  means  a  "smith,"  P.  has  fiht&n,  probably  a 
word  having  no  connection  with  Ifayin.  Cain,  'had,  surely  a  Sumerian  or  Babylonian  word 
for  some  craft,  is  distorted  to  Yhred,  "descent." 

'See  Cory,  Aticient  Ftagments,  30  f. 

'  Hardly  connected  with  the  mother  goddess  Arutu  as  asserted  by  Hommel  and  Jeremias. 
The  name  is  Sumerian, 


,,  Google 


64  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

2.  'Wdwapoi.  Alaparus.  Probably  for  Adaparus,  Adapa, 
a  Sumerian,'  a  sage.^     Reigned  10,800  years. 

3.  'Afi^kotv,  Amelon,^  of  Pantibiblus  (i.  e.,  Sippar?).  This 
name  is  Semitic,  Babylonian  amelu,  "man."*  Reigned  46,800 
years. 

4.  'Kniiivtav,  Ammenon,  the  Chaldean.^  This  name  is 
probably  from  ummanu,^  "skilled  workman,"  and  is  the  only 
name  in  this  list  which  clearly  suggests  connection  with  divine 
patrons  of  culture.     Reigned  43,200  years. 

5.  MeyaXa/)os,'  of  Pantibiblus.     Reigned  64,800  years. 

6.  Aowi/os,  Daonus,*  a  shepherd  of  Pantibiblus,  Reigned 
36,000  years.  The  Greek  calls  him  a  TroifL-qv,  shepherd,  which 
suggests  perhaps  that  the  Babylonians  have  preserved  here  the 
nanie  of  a  patron  of  flocks,  like  Abu  of  our  text  or  Abel  of  the 
Hebrew.     The  shorter  form  of  the  word  Daos,  preserved  in 

'Obviously  the  same  Adapa  of  Eridu  who  in  the  legend  of  Adapa  is  credited  with  being 
the  ancestor  of  mankind.  For  this  reason  Sayce,  Fhrilegmm  Mekbior  Dt  Vosui  544,  has  read 
A-DA-PA  as  A-da-mu.  In  fact  a  Neo- Baby  Ionian  syllabar,  ZA.  9,  163  IV  6,  says  that  the  sign 
PA  has  the  value  ma  in  the  dialect  TE-NAD.  Of  course  we  might  expect  the  Hebrew  to  have 
borrowed  the  name  Adapa  as  well  as  the  legend,  but  I  remain  unconvinced  as  in  my  note  Tani' 
mux  and  hbtat,  31  f.  D^?-  "ma"-"  '"d  '^?7K'  "earth,"  obviously  belong  together,  and  I 
am  sure  that  {U£Jni^  cannot  be  defended  as  Sumerlan.  Moreover,  the  Sumerian  reading  .4.if<]-^i] 
is  proven  by  the  writing  A-DA-PAD,  1.  e..  A-da-pa{d),  hence  A-da-pa,  as  il  occurs  in  the  legend, 
is  an  abbreviation  for  Adapad.  A-da-pad  ahkal  Eridi,  "Adapa  the  sage  of  Eridu,"  IV  R,  jS 
I  34;  here  he  is  regarded  as  a  divine  magician;  cf.  ZA.  l6,  170,  14.  Senecherib  says  that  Ea 
gave  bim  vast  intelligence  and  iitt-na-al  abkalli  A-da-pad,  "the  likeness  of  the  sage  Adapa," 

Lay.  38,  4.     ASurbanipal  says  that tu  ah-kal-li  A-da-pad  a^u^.  "  I  learned  the  ... .  of  the 

sage  Adapa,"  Lehhann,  Sham.  L.'  PI.  34,  [3.  Sargon  also  says  that  he  is  a  king  with  the  tin- 
na-al  abkalli,  "likeness  of  the  sage,"  Sarg.  Cy).  }8.  In  Harp,  Lett.  923,  8  abtallu  a  A-da-pad. 
"sage  and  an  Adapa"  are  lilies  of  a  king.  Hence  Adapa  was  renowned  in  mythology  as  the 
wisest  of  men. 

'HoHHEL,  PSBA.  1893,  343. 

'  Var.  Abydenus  'A^uAAapos ;   Armenian  ed.  of  Eusebius  Almtlon. 

*  HOMMEL,  ibid. 

'  Abydenus  says  he  was  from  Pantibiblus. 

'HoMMEL,  PSBA,  [893,  144.     ummlnu  is  a  loan-word  in  Semitic  from  Sumerian, 

'  Var.  of  Abydenus  in  Syncellus  Codex  Par.  MtyaXavot.     Armenian  Amegalarus. 

'Abydenus,  Aaus. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARADISE  6; 

Abydenus  may  perhaps  stand  for  Aam ;'  we  have  already 
assumed  a  confusion  of  this  kind  in  Adapa(d)  =  Alaparus. 
La^  by  interchange  of  hquids  l>r  might  revert  to  an  older 
Raos;  there  would  then  be  no  difTiculty  in  seeing  in  this  name 
the  Babylonian  re'u,  Hebrew  ro'i  "shepherd." 

7.  EMfS^paxoi,  Euedorachus  of  Pantibiblus.*  Doubt- 
lessly identical  with  the  Sumerian  mythical  sage  Enmeduranki, 
king  of  Sippar,  to  whom  the  oracular  gods  Shamash  and  Adad 
revealed  the  mysteries  of  divination;  said  to  have  been  created 
by  Ninharsag  herself.'  The  name  is  pure  Sumerian,  and  means 
"Lord  of  the  decrees  of  the  totality  of  heaven  and  earth." 
Reigned  64,800  years. 

8.  'AfiefMJiwo^,  Amempsinus,  a  Chaldean  from  Larancha, 
(.  e.,  Larak.*  Reigned  36,000  years.  Generally  regarded  as 
Semitic  for  Amel-Sin,  "Man  of  Sin,"*  but  1  doubt  this.  The 
name  must  be  of  great  antiquity  and,  originating  in  a  Sumerian 
center,  should  be  Sumerian.  Sin,  the  name  of  the  moon  god, 
is  also  a  somewhat  late  Sumerian  contraction  for  the  earlier 
^u-en.     However,  no  better  suggestion  has  been  made.' 

9.  'andprTji,  Opartes,'  a  Chaldean  of  Larancha.  Reigned 
28,800  years.  Berossus  makes  Opartes  the  father  of  Xisuthrus, 
hero  of  the  Flood.     According  to  the  Babylonian  version  the 

■A  connection  with  Babyl,  h'u.  "wise,  intelligent,"  would  be  probable,  if  we  assume  this 
to  be  original. 

'Abydenus,  Ew8iiip«r){0«,  AtSupivxos ;  Armenian.  Eusebius,  Edoranchui. 

'See  ZiHMERN,  Ritual  Tajeln,  No.  a4.  for  lh=  idenlificalion  and  the  lexl  which  describes 
the  origin  of  divination  through  the  hero  En-me-dur-an-ki. 

'  A  city  of  great  antiquity  mentioned  in  the  Creation  Epic,  and  located  by  Poebel,  after  a 
passage  in  Clay,  PBS.  Vol.  II  No.  i8[,  7,  on  the  old  Tigris  southeast  of  Nippur.  See  Poebel, 
Crtalioti  and  Delugt,  4 1 . 

>So  HOMMEL,  PSBA.  1893,  345. 

'Since  the  city  Isin  lay  in  the  vicinity  of  Larak  {SBH.86.  Rev.  10-13;  CT.  ■;,  35,  30-)> 
perhaps  we  should  look  for  this  word  in  the  end  of  Amempsinus.    See  SBP.  160,  note  7. 

'  Apollodonis  has  'OrtipTTfi,  but  this  has  been  corrected  to  Opartes,  and  identified  with 
Ubar-Tutu. 


,,  Google 


bo  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

father  of  Uta-napi§tim*  was  Ubar-'Tu-Tu,*  moreover  Uta- 
napiStim  is  said  to  have  been  a  "Man  of  Suruppak,"  and 
Laranchae  and  Suruppak  were  probably  names  of  adjacent 
quarters  of  the  great  city  Isin.  Hence  both  Opartes  and 
Ubar-''Tutu  belong  to  the  same  city. 

10.  BttrovOpo^,  Xisuthrus,  son  Opartes.  Reigned  64,800 
years.  The  Greek  is  based  upon  the  Semitic  title  of  Uta- 
napiStim,  atra-^asisu> tasis-atra,  "The  supremely  wise."' 

In  this  list  all  those  names  designated  as  Chaldean  are 
probably  Sumerian.  In  fact  Berossus  appears  to  employ  the 
word  "Chaldean"  in  the  sense  of  "Sumerian"  here.  It  is 
curious  that  the  only  names  certainly  Semitic,  Nos.  3,  6,  are 
from  Pantibiblus.  Even  here  we  have  in  No.  7  a  Sumerian 
ruler.    On  the  whole  this  list  is  preponderatingly  Sumerian. 

The  Meaning  of  the  Name  Tagtug 

1  have  already  defended  in  print  a  possible  connection  of 
the  Sumerian  name  Tagtug  with  the  Hebrew  N5ah.*  The 
argument  to  which  1  have  nothing  new  to  add  is  as  follows. 

'  Semiiic  translation  of  Sumerian  Zi-tid. 

'  This  name  is  also  Sumerian  and  means  "The  prot^g^  of  the  god  ru(d)-(«(i),"  The  title 
Ta-lu  is  one  assumed  by  Marduk  in  religious  texts  of  the  Assyrian  period  but  even  there  it  does 
not  always  apply  to  him,  t.  g.,  Sburpu  IV  4j,  VIII,  ii.  This  tille  is  unknown  before  the  period 
of  the  first  Babyl.  dynasty.  Hammurapi  uses  il  without  a  determinalive  for  god.  Code  III  lo. 
and  in  thai  section  which  refers  to  Barsippa.  The  title  occurs  in  n.pra.  of  this  period  but  not 
before  or  after.  Il  may  be  that  the  (wo  n.pra.  in  V  R.  44,  6  and  ai,  which  are  Sumerian  and 
contain  this  title,  belong  to  (his  period  or  slightly  earlier.  In  (he  Assyrian  rendering  the  god 
IMarduk  Is  used,  but  this  is  based  upon  la(er  views.  In  the  period  when  these  names  were  given 
Tu-tu  probably  referred  to  some  other  god,  probably  a  local  deity  of  Suruppak  or  Larak,  both 
of  which  seem  to  have  been  parts  of  the  famous  city  Isin,  where  Cula  was  worshipped,  SBP. 
160  n.  7anda6, 7.  It  is  surprising  that  a  deity  who  appears  so  late  in  the  history  of  the  pantheon 
should  here  occur  in  the  name  of  a  prehistoric  Sumerian  ruler. 

•  This  title  appears  as  at-ta-ba-sis,  in  the  Gilgamish  version,  Dhorme,  1 18,  196  and  in  an 
early  Babylonian  version,  pTag.  ScheilWW  4,  3i  ai-Ta-am-ia-si-is.  The  hero  of  the  Flood  has 
also  the  same  title  aira-iasis  in  a  fragment  from  another  version,  Dhorme,  ia6,  1 1 .  The  inver- 
sion ^iiiri.^fr<]  is  probably  based  upon  3  too  mechanical  rendering  of  the  Sumerian  Ft-DIRIG{f). 

•PSBA.  1914.  T89. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADISE  67 

Since  we  know  that  the  Babylonians  did  not  employ  the 
Sumerian  name  of  the  hero  of  the  Sumerian  epic  of  the  Creation 
and  the  Flood,  viz.,  Zi-ud-sud-du,  but  translated  it  into  Semitic 
by  Uta-napiUim,  v/e  may  expect  that  the  Babylonians  who 
preferred  the  Nippur  epic  would  likewise  render  Tagtug  by  its 
Semitic  translation.  Although  no  Babylonian  version  has  been 
found  based  upon  the  Nippurian,  yet  Hebrew  mythology  was 
obviously  much  indebted  to  it.  The  problem  is,  then,  to  trans- 
late tag-tug  and  if  possible  to  justify  a  translation  from  which 
the  Hebrew  Noah  (HlJ)  might  be  derived.  Both  words  tag 
and  tug  are  derived  from  the  Sumerian  stem  ^  t-g,  whose 
general  meaning  is  "to  rest,  repose."  The  form  of  the  root  tug 
is  regularly  rendered  by  ndbu,  "to  repose."  As  for  the  form 
with  internal  vowel  a,  tag,  we  know  that  it  can  be  rendered 
by  laha$u,  a  word  usually  taken  to  mean  "cast  down;"  the 
ordinary  meaning  of  the  root  tag  is  the  active  of  the  idea  gen- 
erally expressed  by  tug.  i.  e.,  "to  cause  to  rest,  to  suppress, 
to  beat  down  violently."  These  two  ideas  are  connected  and 
we  need  not  hesitate  to  suppose  that  the  intransitive  idea  of 
"repose,  to  come  to  an  end,"  was  expressed  by  the  active  root 
tag  also,  labd^u  is  probably  the  same  root  as  rabdfu,  "to  lie 
down;"  it  is  true  that  the  verb  labd$u  is  explained  by  tag  in 
a  syllabar  where  it  occurs  between  lu'unu,  "to  fashion  skill- 
fully," and  ma^diu  Sa  mimma,  "to  hammer  something,"  and 
the  verb  has  undoubtedly  the  same  active  idea  here.'  Also 
in  the  only  other  passage  where  laba^u  occurs  it  is  given  the 
same  active  sense  "to  cast  down."^  Naturally  this  persistent 
use  of  labdfu  in  the  sense  of  "cast  down,  smite,"  may  exclude 

'  Syl.  C  292-5. 

' ka-Ju-gat  =  Ia-ba-iu,  Syn.  laban  appi,  CT.  ij,  )2,  11. 


,,  Google 


68  UNIVEBSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

a  connection  with  rahdiu,^  and  render  the  whole  argument  so 
far  as  this  word  is  concerned  ineffective.  Nevertheless  the 
possibility  of  the  root  tag  having  this  meaning  need  not  depend 
upon  evidence  so  fragile.  The  cognate  dag  means  both  aSdbu, 
"to  sit,"  and  Subtu,  "abode,  place  of  repose."^  The  form 
with  internal  vowel  e,  teg,  is  one  of  the  ordinary  words  in 
Sumerian  for  paid^u  and  nd^ju,  "to  rest,"  as  well  as  the  variant 
ten}  Also  tug  has  the  variant  tub,  a  word  which  is  repeatedly 
employed  for  ndhu.  This  evidence  would  under  ordinary  cir- 
cumstances induce  a  Sumerologist  acquainted-  with  the  ten- 
dency of  the  language  to  use  the  stems  of  roots  with  various 
internal  vowel  inflections  all  in  the  same  sense  to  expect  a  root 
tag,  "to  rest,  repKtse."  A  reduplicated  stem  like  tag-tug  would 
ordinarily  have  an  active  sense,  and  be  rendered  by  the  piel 
in  Semitic.  Granting  that  we  have  here  such  a  reduplicated 
stem  for  ndhu,  tag-tug,  should  be  rendered  by  nH^u,  "to  cause 
to  repose,"  and  the  permansive  singular  would  be  nu-u^,  "he 
is  appeased,"  i.  e.,  "God  is  appeased,"  "God's  wrath  is  made 
to  repose."  Such  was  the  theory  by  which  I  connected  this 
name  with  the  Hebrew  Noal).  In  its  favor  we  can  also  urge 
the  appropriateness  of  this  name  for  the  hero  who  survived 
the  deluge,  by  which  the  anger  of  the  gods  against  sinful  men 
was  appeased. 

Against  this  theory  we  may  adduce  the  fact  that  no  direct 
evidence  for  the  meaning  "to  rest,"  for  tag  has  been  adduced. 
And  much  more  serious  than  this  will  be  the  objection  that, 
when  Sumerian  wished  to  express  intense  action  and  causa- 
tion,  they  double  the  same  form  of  the  root,   not  different 

'ThU  was  the  reason  for  my  entry  to  tag  in  the  sense  of  "rest,  abide,"  in  Sum.  Gr.  14;. 
Cf.  nabSfu,  ttapdiit.  "to  overwhelm." 

'See  Sum,  Cr.  308;  SBP.  )30,  13;  BollenrOcher,  N^rfui,  31,  13,  <J<f;-;it  =  iHt-fi;  Meiss- 
NER.  SAl.  3869,     dag-na  nu-un-lit=i7ta  !»frfi-!H  ul  aUb,  Meek,  BA,  X.  No.  38,  9. 

'  See  Sum.  Cr.  347. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  69 

forms  of  it.  We  should  expect  for  this  idea  tug-tug,  or  tag-tag, 
like  gar-gar,  tnal-mal,  etc.  I  am  unable  to  find  any  examples 
of  the  reduplication  of  a  stem  in  which  two  vowels  not  of  the 
same  kind  are  employed.  On  the  whole  we  must  regard  this 
interpretation  as  doubtful.  To  say  impossible,  would  be  to 
allow  too  little  scope  for  future  discoveries.  To  accept  it  as 
proven  would  lead  to  uncertain  conclusions. 

TRANSLITERATION  AND  TRANSLATION 
Obverse  I 


{e-nt'ba-^dm    e-ne-ba-dm   me-en- 

p-en 
[kuT\  Dilmun  ki-a^ag-  ga-  dm 

[ki'aiag-]ga  e-ne  ba-dm  me-en-fi- 

en 
k&r  Dilmun  ki-aiag-  ga- 

dm 
kHr   Dilmun  ki-aiag-ga-dm    kiir 

Dilmun  eUdm 

kkr  Dilmun  el-dm  kUr  Dilmun 
Idg-ldg-ga-dm 


I .  They  that  slept,  they  that  slept 

are  ye.' 
.  2.  [In  mountain  of]  Dilmun  which 

is  an  holy  place, 
3.  |ln  the  holy  place]  they  that 

slept  are  ye. 
4 the  mountain  of  Dilmun 

which  is  an  holy  place. 

5.  The  mountain  of  Dilmun  which 

is  an  holy  place,  the  moun- 
tain of  Dilmun  is  pure. 

6.  The   mountain   of    Dilmun    is 

pure,  the  mountain  of  Dil- 
mun is  clean. 


>  References  lo  the  sleeping  chamber  of  each  of  the  great  gods  and  his  consort  can  be  sup- 
plied from  religious  texts  which  concern  other  cult  centers.  An  iltuminating  comment  upon 
this  passage  wiil  be  found  in  the  Scheil  Fragment  of  the  Adapa  legend  where  the  poet  says  of 
Adapa: 

"  [n  those  days  Adapa  a  man  of  Eridu, 
When  the  chieftain  Ea  paraded  unto  the  steeping  chamber. 
Daily  guards  the  bolt  of  Eridu." 
enttmilu  Adapa  mir  {31)  Eridi 
[mas-huCi)  ''"^1  <'u  maiali  itta  Udadi 
imilamma  Ugar  (it)  Eridi  iiiar. 
For  the  restitution  miti-su{d)  '^massi,  "leading  goat."  and  title  of  Ea,  seeCT.  16,  30,  134. 
ZiNMERN  first  made  this  evident  restoration  which  was  unfortunately  rejected  by  other  edilon. 
See  (or  the  text  Dhokme,  Cboix  1  ;o,  16-18. 


,,  Google 


70  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM- 

7.  dl-ni-ne  Dilmun-{ki)-a  ii-hi-  in- 

nad* 

8.  ki  'en-ki  dam-a-ni-da  ha-an-da- 

nd-a-ba 

9.  ki-bi  el-dm  ki-bi  Idg-ldg-ga-dm 

10.  di-ni-ne 

11.  ki  ^en-ki  ''nin-el-la^  ba-an-\da- 

nd-a-ba\ 
1 2   ki-bi  el-dm 

13.  DilmuK~{ki)-a  ^nag-ga-(iu)dug- 

diig  nu-ntu-ni-bi'  ' 

14.  daT'{^u)-e  g^-dar-{^u)-ri  nu-mu-     \ 

ni-ib-hi 

15.  ur-gwla  sag-gii  nu-ub*-ra-ra 

16.  UT'bar-ra-ge^  stl  nu-ub-  Jur-  ri 

17.  lik-ku  mdi  gam-gam  nu-  ie-  -ba 

18.  tud{?)h-kuT-kuT-e  nu-  te-  ba 


-BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

7.  Alone  in  Dilmun  they  lay  down ; 

8.  Where  Enki  with  his  consort 

lay, 

9.  That  place  is  pure,  that  place 

is  clean. 

10.  Alone  in  Dilmun  they  lay  down. 

1  i .  Where  Enki  with  the  pure  di- 
vine queen  lay  down, 

12.  That  place  is  pure,  that  place 

is  clean. 

13.  In  Dilmun  the  raven'  shrieked 

not. 

14.  The  kite''  shrieked  not,  kitelike. 

15.  The  lion*  slew  not. 

16.  The    wolf   plundered    not    the 

lambs. 

17.  The  dog  approached  not  the 

kids  in  repose. 

18.  The  mother  (goal)  as  it  fed  on 

grain  he  disturbed  not. 


'  For  A-nad^ salalu,  v.  IV  R.  lib  ig  ii-ba-ra-i-iK  =  ta  eflalu.  The  verb  should  be  innecied 
with  the  dual  ending  dl-iS,  but  this  is  found  rarely  and  only  after  nouns.  Sum.  Cr.  {i}o.  The 
above  passage  is  the  only  example  of  a  dual  verb  known  to  me  and  we  may  conclude  that  no 
inflection  existed  for  the  dual  in  the  Sumerian  conjugation.  fi-He  becomes  t'tu  in  e-«t-ba-4tn, 
"he  that  slept,"  or  "they  two  that  slept." 

■This  title  is  applied  also  to  the  consort  of  Negun,  son  of  Ninlil,  in  CT.  24. 16,  ii);  Negun 
is  a  name  of  Ninuraia.  Note  also  the  connection  of  these  deities  in  ''''hleginina-t(f)-imi-kHf) 
son  of  AmeI-''NineUa,  CT.  8,  44*  18  f.  Mso  gaian-tl-la.  SBP.  170,  6  is  a  title  of  Gula,  Bauora 
similar  mother  goddess.  Only  in  this  passage  does  the  title  apply  to  Damkina.  In  line  )  1  she 
is  represented  as  the  daughter  of  Enki. 

•  Cf.  d&f-mti-iii-ih-hi,  [The  slorm  in  heaven]  shrieked,  Zimmern,  K.  L,  18  Rev.  3 1  ff.  Also 
SBH.  97,  74  an-ia  a-nun-tia  d&t-bi-ib-bi,  "On  high  the  itmpeti  shrieked." 

*  The  sign  is  clearly  tt  but  ui  should  be  expected. 
*Cf.  Dhorhe,  Cbcrix  ij8  I.  T90. 

<  Bird  of  Ihe  stonn,  and  symbol  of  the  city  of  Lagash. 

'  In  any  case  a  storm  bird  which  flies  high  and  has  a  shrill  voice,  SBP.  340.  Al-  Note  that 
the  larru.  a  loan-word  from  dar,  is  rendered  in  Sumerian  by  NAM-^$AB'daT-^  in  CT.  14,  4,  6 
and  NAM-\-$AB  is  the  raven  [aribv).  hence  a  bird  allied  to  the  raven;  in  the  same  passage  Ihe 
"night  bird"  t'^fur  m&U  precedes.  Muss-Ahnolt,  Lrxkon,  \3ga  renders  "kite"  which  is 
probable, 

'The  Semitic  deluge  I.  188  has  ur-nuti. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC  OF    PARA0I5E 


7' 


19.  nu^mu-un-iH dim-jiiar  -ra-bi. . . 

'ba 

20.  mttien-e  an-na  dlm-bi  nu- e 

21.  tud-Qu)-€  sag-nu-mU'Un-iia' 

hib-e' 

23.  igi'iii-€   igi-gii  me-en   mm-bim- 

ni-bi 

25.  sag-gig-gi  sag-gig  me-en  nu 

24.  um-ma-bi  um-nui  me-en  nu 

25.  ab-ba-bi  ab-ba  me-en  nu 

26.  ki-el  a-nu-H-a-ni  eri-a  nu-mu-ni- 

ib-iig-gi 

27.  galu  id-da  bal-e-mi-di   nu-mu- 

ni-bi 

28.  iigir-e  X^  ga-na  nu-um-nigin 

29.  lul-e  e-lu-lam  nu-mu-ni-bi 

30.  galam  eri-ka  i-dUr*  nu-mu 

31.  *nin-tl-la    a-a-ni    *en-ki-ra    gii- 

mu-  na-  de-a 


19.  The    (ewes)    impregnate    their 

foetus .... 

20.  The  birds  of  heaven  their  young 

[forsook]  not. 

21.  The  doves  were    not   put    to 

flight. 

22.  "Oh  disease  of  the  eyes  thou 
I  art    the    'Sick    Eye,' "    one 

said  not.* 

23.  "Oh  head  ache  thou  art  the 

'  Head  Ache,'  "  one  said  not. 
1     24.  As  to  the  old  woman,  "thou 
art  an  old  woman"  one  said 
'  not. 

{     2$.  As  to  the  old  man,  "thou  art 

an  old  man"  one  said  not. 

26.  A  pure  place  where  water  was 

not  poured  for  cleansing  in 

the  city  one  inhabited  not. 

"A  man  has  changed  a  canal," 

one  said  not. 
A  prince  his  wisdom  withheld 


27. 

38. 

29.  "A  deceiver  deceives,' 

30, 

3' 


e  said 


"  The  counsellor  of  a  city 
,"  one  said  not. 

Ninella  to  Enki  her*  father 
spoke. 


■  This  compound  probably  illustrates  a  fact  in  regard  to  Ihe  prcRx  sag  already  noted  by 
Delitzsch  in  his  Ghnary,  p.  1)3.  tag  does  not  appear  to  alter  the  meaning  of  a  compound. 
Cf.,  beside  the  examples  cited  by  Delitisch,  sai-J>i  —  fiim&,  saf-gil-ra^tUru. 

'  The  sign  is  t«(i>  of  ^^,  with  the  modifying  lines  on  the  right  of  the  sign,  and  usually 
has  (he  value  ialam,  skillful,  see  BE.  XXXI  4^.  For  the  simple  sign  see  line  30.  Should  we 
Mippoie  a  value  g^g-ga'> gaUm-ma? 

■Cf.  ZiMMERK,  KL.  36  Rev.  I  17. 

'  The  idea  is  taken  from  the  incantations  against  the  demons  of  disease. 

*  The  meaning  of  this  line  has  been  suggested  by  nigin-galam-ma  —  Idjur 

*  Ninelia,  the  consort  and  daughter  of  Enki,  is  obviously  identical  with  Damgalnumu  in 
II  33,  who  is  there  represented  as  the  daughter  of  Enki.  Damgalnunna  is  ordinarily  represented 
aa  the  consort  of  Enki  in  religious  texts. 


1,  to  make  rare. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


32.  trt-mu-e-sii  eri-mu-e-iig  nam 
mu-sum-ma-ia 


33.  Dilmun  eri  mu-e-sii  e 


35 id-da  m 

36.  [eri]mu-e'$ig  eri 


37- 
38. 


32.  "A  city  thou  hast  founded,  a 

city  thou  hast  founded  and  a 
fate  thou  hast  given. 

33.  In    Oilmun  a  city  thou   hast 

founded,   a  city   (thou  hast 

founded  and  a  fate  thou  hast 

given). 
34 thou    hast    founded    a 

city  (thou  hast  founded  and 

a  fate  hast  given). 

35 (wbicb)  a  canal  has  not. 

36.  ( ]  thou  hast  founded,  a 

city  (thou  hast  founded  and 

a  fate  thou  hast  given). 


About  seven  lines  broken  away. 


Obverse  II 


gir-ma-an-gal-la-ja  a  ie-im-la-i-' 

de 
eri-iu  a  ^e-gdl-la  ^u-mu-ra-fuig- 

nag 
Dilmun-ki  a  ie-gdl-la 

dul  a-Ui-a-ju  dul  a  dug-ga  ie- 

int'l-ta-da-du-ne] 
eri-ju  i  g&-kaT-ra*  kalam-ma-ka 

ie-a 
Dilmun-ki  i 

i-di'iu*  'babbar  ud-de-  a 
''babbar  an-na  gub-bi-  e 


1 .  In  thy  great may  waters 

2.  Thy  city  may  drink  water  in 

abundance. 

3.  Dilmun    may   drink   water  in 

abundance. 

4.  Thy  pools  of  bitter  waters  as  a 

pool  of  sweet  waters  may  flow. 

5.  Let  thy  city  be  the  home  which 

assembles  the  Land  of  Sumer. 

6.  Let  Dilmun  be  the  home  which 

assembles  the  Land  of  Sumer. 

7.  Now  oh  Sun-god  shine  forth. 

8.  Oh  Sun-god  in  heaven  stand. 


'The  photograph  appears  to  have  da-du  not  DUL-DU{  —  ^,  but  in  line  la  the  sign  DUL 
is  clearly  written.  This  curious  form  of  the  sign  REC.  133  I  have  found  nowhere  else.  The 
identification  with  DUL  is  the  only  one  which  seems  possible. 

■Probably  for g&-gar-ra='Pubbuni,  RA.  10,  71  II  1. 

■Cf.  i-dl-lu-inanna,  IV  R.  13,  Rev.  40  in  Corrections  and  PSBA,  1914,  19a. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE 
.  gir-du-a  dui-eien  ki-na-ta 


73 


sugUT-t  ''nattna(r)'a-  la 

ka-a-ki~a~lag-ta  a-dug-ki-la  mu- 
na-ra-  gub 


gir-ma-an-gal-Ja-na  a  im-ta-i-de 

eri-ni  a  ie-gdl-la  im-ta-nag-nag 

Dilmun-(ki)  a  ^e-igal-la  im-ta- 
nag-mg] 
i;,  dtd  a-Ul-a-ni  a-dug-ga  na-nam 

16.  a-iag  agar-ra?^  nam-a-ni  U-mu- 
na-ab-? 
eri-ni  i  gH-^ar-ra  kalam-ma-ka 
na-nam 

18,  Dilmun-{ki)  i-gu-[kar-ra  kalam- 

ma-ka  na-nam] 

19,  i-di-iu  ^habbar  ud-di-a  fir  ^e  na- 

nam-ma* 

20,  di-ia?  giipitug-gi  tuk-a 

31.  ''nin-tud'Oma-kalama'lu 

22.  *en'ki-ge  gUpilug-gi  iuk-a 
2j.  *nin-iud 

24.  ui^-a-ni  e-a  ba-an-ii-in-dun^ 


.  He  that  marches from  his 

place. 

the  Moon-god 

.  From  the  moutb  of  the  earth 
walking  forth,  with  sweet 
waters  of  the  earth  he  comes 
unto  thee." 

.  In  his  great waters  went 

up. 

.  His  city  drank  water  in  abun- 
dance. 

.  Dilmun  drank  water  in  abun- 
dance. 

.  His  pool  of  bitter  waters  was 
(a  pool  oO  sweet  water. 

.  The  low-lands 

.  His  city  was  the  home  which 
assembles  the  Land  (of 
Sumer). 

.  Dilmun  was  the  home  which 
assembles  the  Land  (of 
Sumer) , 

.  Now  oh  Sun-god  shine  forth. 
Verily  it  was  so. 

.  He  the  renderer  of  decision,  the 
possessor  of  wisdom. 

.  To  Nintud  the  mother  of  the 
Land  of  Sumer, 

.  Enki  the  possessor  of  wisdom, 

.  Even  unto  Nintud  (the  mother 
of  the  Land  of  Sumer) 

.  His  counsel  in  the  temple  re- 
vealed. 


'  The  signs  are  not  precisely  those  of  KAR-RA. 

'  luatu  la  kiam,  "verily  it  was  so."     This  phrase  was  rendered  into  Hebrew  by  15  '•}% 

'  Below  NI  a  clearly  written  TAR.     Perhaps  lal  >  (il  >  sjl  and  glossed  lil. 

'ul^ttoi*.  V.  Sum.  Gr.  35). 

*dun~pil&  la  niri,  "to  open  a  canal,"  V  Raw.  4111  ;;,  is  a  rendering  derived  from  Jut)  to 
dig,  hence  "(o  open  a  canal."  Set_a.]x>  Bab.  Utvrgiis  ua,  i^.  From  this  meaning  the  verb 
received  the  sense  of  "to  reveal." 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


25.  d-a-ni  p-a  kds-kds^-e  ba-an-li- 

Us-k&s-t 

26.  ul-a-ni  fror-Iii  mag-dug  ia-ba-ra- 

an-ii-^i 

37.  gii-bi-in-de  m^-ra  galu  nu-imi- 
un-dib-bi 

28.  ''en-ki-ge  gii-bP-in-de 

29.  ^i-an-na  ni-  pad 

30.  Mi-d*  md-ra  n4-a  mA-ra  enim-ni 


31.  ''en-ki-ge  a ''dam-gal-nun-tta  enim 

-ni  mi'm-in-diig 

32.  'nin-iat'Sag'gd-ge  diag-ga  ba-ni- 

in-rig 

33.  alag-ga   iu-ba-ni-in-ii  a  ''en-ki- 

ga-ka 

34.  ud'ii'dm  Hi-  di-a-ni 

3j.  ud-min-dm  ititnin-a-ni 

36.  ud-ehdm  ili-ei-a-ni 

37.  ud'lint'dm  iti-Um-a-ni 

38.  ud-i^-dm 

39.  ud-at-dm 


25.  His  revelation  in  the  reed-bouse 

as  a  decision  he  rendered  unto 
her. 

26.  His  counsel  in  secret  grandly 

and  beneficently  to  her  he 
affirmed. 

27.  He  spoke.     "  Unto  me  man  en- 

ters not."' 

28.  Enki  spoke. 

29.  By  heaven  he  swore. 

30.  "Cause  him  to  sleep'  for  me, 

cause  him  to  sleep  for  me," 
was  his  word. 

31.  Enki    the   father  of    Damgal- 

nunna  utter^  his  word. 

32.  Ninharsag  the  fields ' 

33.  The  fields  received  the  waters  of 

Enki. 

34.  It    was    the    first    day    whose 

month  is  the  first. 

35.  It  was  the  second  day  whose 

month  is  the  third. 

36.  It   was   the   third  day  whose 

month  is  the  third. 

37.  it  was  the  fourth  day  whose 

month  is  the  fourth. 

38.  It   was   the  fifth  day   [whose 

month  is  the  fifth]. 

39.  It  was  the  sixth  day  [whose 

month  is  the  sixth]. 


'  For  kas-pinssu,  v.  ka-di,  SBH.  77,  7. 

'The  reading  bi  for  ni  is  a  suggeslion  of  Poegel. 

*  luni-il,  CT.  16,  45,  47. 

*  See  for  another  suggestion  on  this  important  line,  PSBA.  1914.  2j6. 

*  1. 1.,  to  perish. 

*  The  meaning  is  uncertain.  The  mother  goddess  nowhere  else  appears  as  hostile  to  man 
until  he  eats  of  the  cassia  and  is  cursed,  ba-rii-in-rig  might  of  course  be  rendered  by  Hraiii}, 
"she  devastated,"  which  is  the  most  natural  rendering.  Perhaps  we  have  to  do  with  the  verb 
rig  >  ti  (o  fashion,  build,  whence  rib  "form."  v.  Sum,  Or.  1^4.  In  the  latter  case  we  should 
render,  "Ninharsag  in  the  fields  had  fashioned  (men),  (but)  the  fields  received  the  water*  of 
Enki." 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERtAN    EPIC  OF   PARADISE 


75 


40.  ud-min-dm 

41.  ud-ussu-dm 


43.  ud-tlim-4m  iti-elim-a-ni  Hi  nam- 
sal-a-ka 

43.  id-lum''iim   id'lum-gim  jd-dug- 

nun-nd'-gim 

44.  ['nitt-tud]-ama-kaJama-ka 

45.  {*mn-kur'Ta?\ 

46.  in'tur-ud 


40.  It  was  the  seventh  day  [whose 

month  is  the  seventh]. 

41.  it  was  the  eighth  day  [whose 

month  is  the  eighth]. 

42.  It  was  the  ninth  day  whose 

month  is  the  ninth;  month  of 
the  cessation  of  the  waters. 

43.  Like  fat,  like  fat,  like  tallow. 

44.  Nintud  mother  of  the  Land, 

45.  [Even  Ninkurra], 

46.  had  created  them. 


1.  'nin-tud  gti-id-da-gd-iu  mi-ni-ib- 

im 

2.  *en-ki-ge    mi-ra    im-da-lal-e-ne 

itn-da-lal-e-ne^ 

3.  sukkat-a-ni    dingir-guda-m    gii- 

mu-na-de-e 

4.  galu-dumu*  idg-ga-e-ne  nu-mu- 

un-ju-U-bi^ 

5.  *nin-tud  iig-ga-e-Xne  nu-mu-un- 

lu-U-bi] 

6.  sukkal-a-ni  dingir-guda-ne  mu- 

na-ni-ib-gi-gi 

7.  galu-dumu    idg-ga-e-ne   nu-mu^ 

un-jU'te'bi 


I.  Nintud  to  the  bank  of  the 
river  summoned. 

3.  "Enki  (for  me)  they  are  reck- 
oned, yea  are  reckoned." 

3.  Her  herald  the  divine  anointed 

ones'  called. 

4.  The   sons   of   men   who  were 

pious    she    was    not    wroth 
against. 

5.  Nintud  against  the  pious  was 

not  wroth. 

6.  Her  herald  the  divine  anointed 

ones  caused  to  return. 

7.  The   sons   of   men    who   were 

pious    she    was    not    wroth 
against. 


iprobably  the  original  of  iiUu  =  Ji>fl,fai.Ullow.  AJSL.  28,  119.     Cf.  DP.  ad  I  3. 
'  The  same  word  in  Cud.  Cyl.  A  18,  3 1  where  it  follows  (d-nun,  butter. 


'  The  verb  im-da-lat  < 
been  reckoned."  i.  (..counted  among  the  ii 
thee  may  he  be  reckoned,"      For  lal  in  this  sensi 
countesi  him."  BE.  39,  7  Rev.  ;j. 

'Cf.  ZiMMERN,  KL.  37  Rev.  II,  9. 

•Forni-(it(  =  rani,  V.  BA.  V.  6j8.  11. 

*  Probably  priests.    Or  perhaps  the  Anunnaki  1 


im-da-Ial.  "With  you  he  hM 
Cf  also  line  3  ja-ad-Ja  it-im-da-Ud, "  With 
note  also  ba-ab4til-/n  =  taitiidallK,  "Thou 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


^nin-tud  idg-\ga-e-ne  nu-mu-un- 

ju-te-bi] 
lugal-mu  ni-dirig-ga-Tt^  ni-dirig- 

ga-ri 
giT~Hi  di-a  "'m^-a  bi-in-gub 

2  gu-ma*  nuiikim*-ma  nam*-mi- 

in-gub 
dH-im-ma-an-tab  gibil-im-nm-an- 

su-Ug 
*en-ki-ge  atag-ga  ba-ni-in-rig 
alag-ga   iu-ba-ni-in-ti  a  ^en-ki- 

ga-ka 
ud-di-dm  iii-di-a-ni 

ud-min-dm  iti-min-a-m 

ud-elint'dm  iii-elim-a-ni  Hi  nant' 
sal-  a-ka^ 


.  Nintud  against  the  pious  was 

not  wroth. 
.  My  king,  who  was  filled  with 

fear,  yea  was  filled  with  fear, 
.  His  foot  alotu  upon  the  boat 

set. 
.  Two  "bumbles,"  as  watchmen 

he  placed  on  guard. 
.  Doubly    be    caulked    the    ship; 

torches  be  lighted.* 
.  Enki  devastated  the  fields. 
.  The  fields  received  the  waters 

of  Enki. 
.  It    was   the  first   day,    whose 

month  is  the  first. 
,  It  was  the  second  day,  whose 

month  is  the  second, 
,  It  was  the  ninth  day,  whose 

month    is    the    ninth ;     the 

month  of  the  cessation  of  the 

waters. 


n  element  identiul  with 
),  71  II  10.  In  all  other 
Some  confusion  between 


1  For  this  emphatic  ri.  v.  Sum.  Or.  ii6;:  altort— j^in  emm*muUiUa-ri,  "the  word  of  Enlil," 
Bah.  Lit.  186  Rev.  11.    Literally  "the  terror  filled." 

'  tonil,  dual  of  kanlu,  "the  humble,"  a  designation  for  slaves  or  attendants.  Wholly 
uncertain.     For  (urn  a  derivative  of  lam-^kanSi-u,  cf.  Sum.  Gr.  118. 

'This  sign  which  recurs  in  line  31  below  has  at  the  beginning 
the  first  part  of  the  sign  gtdiM  =  Mlukku;  also  maikim-ulvkliK,  RA. 
known  examples  this  sign  begins  with  PA.  cf.  Mani^iusu  A  T4,  6,  etc. 
these  two  signs  must  be  supposed  to  explain  the  form  here. 

*  nam  is  not  negative  here  and  the  positive  force  can  be  paralleled;  tum-la-t-gdl^lapli, 
"thou  hast  opened,"  IV  R  io  No.  3.  3:  na-3m-md-Ht-ublamma,  SBP.  171,  36;  nam-na-re-i 
(from  his  queen),  "he  caused  him  to  go  forth, "SBP.  184,  16.  fi-i-ninnii-ta  Sg-ga  natn-Ut-t  min- 
kanmia  l-lit  Ag-u-n;  bi-dih,  "From  the  chamber  of  Eninnu  at  daybreak  he  went  forth  and  again 
to  the  temple  at  midday  he  wenl,"Gud.Cyl.  AS,  ].  gti-nam-mi-de,  "he  calied,"  SAK.  13  VI  7; 
gk-nam-mi-in-de,  CT.  16,  20,  133;  cf.  aa,  ij6.  This  nam  Is  obviously  the  emphatic  nam  seen 
in  nanam  an  emphatic  enclitic;  i>i-gi-me  na-nam,  "verily  I  take  hold,"  II  R.  16,  36:  k^T  gig-gH- 
ga-na-nam,  "the  land  it  afflicts,"  SBP.  44,  3  (cf.  ;).  Note  also  tu-mu-uH-ba-al,  "verily  he 
trnigresjes  against."  SBP.  384,  11  ff. 

*The  second  rehearsal  omits  the  months  3-8.  This  form  of  recital  describes  in  a  vivid 
manner  the  gradual  rise  of  the  waters  and  the  monotony  of  their  long  duration. 

'Cf.  NE-t&^  =  fiparu,  torch.  BA.  V,  708,  4.  This  phrase  is  wholly  uncertain. 
sa-Ug  in  nig-su-Ug,  KL.  78  R.  19  has  a  meaning  synonymous  with  "atonement,  purili- 
catfon." 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADISE 


18.  id-lum-gim    id4um-gim    i^ug- 

nun-na-gim 

19.  [^nin-kiir-ra  id-lu\m 

20.  ''mn-tu{d    ama    ludama-ka]    in- 

tu-ud 

21.  ^nin-kuT-ra  [gH-id-da-gd-iu]  mi- 

m-{ib-gi?] 
23.  'en-ki-ge    md-ra    im-[da-lal-t-tu 

im-da-lal-t-ne] 
25.  sukkal-a-ni  dingir-guda-rte  \gii- 

mu-na-de-e] 
34.  galu-dumu-ldg-ga-e-ne     nv^mu- 

un-\xu-tt-bi] 

25.  ^nin-kUr-ra  l&g-[ga-e-ne  nu-mu- 

un-iu-le-bi\ 

26.  sukkel-a-ni  dingtT'guda'ne  mu- 

na-ni'ib-gi-gi 

27.  galu-dumu     tdg-ga^ette     su-iti- 

SAL+KU-ni 

28.  ''nin-kiir-Ta    idg-lga-e-tu    $u-in- 

SAL+KU-ni] 

29.  lugal-mu  ni-dirig-ga'Tt  ni-dirig- 

ga-ri 

30.  gir-ni  dl-a  '"md-a  bi'in-gub 

3'- 
32. 
33. 


2  gu-'ma  maikim-ma  t 

gub 
dH-im-ma-an-^b  gibil-im-ma-ni- 

su-U 
^en-ki-ge  alag  ba-ni-in-rig 


18.  Like  fat,  like  fat.  like  tallow. 

19.  Ninkurra'  (like)  fat, 

30.  Nintud  [mother  of  the  Land) 

had  created  them. 

31.  Ninkurra  [to  the  shore  of  the 

river  had  supttmmed]. 
33.  "Enki,  for  me  they  are  reck- 
oned, yea  they  are  reckoned." 

33.  Her  herald  the  divine  anointed 

ones  had  called. 

34.  The  pious  sons  of  men  she  was 

not  wroth  against. 

35.  Ninkurra  against  the  pious  sons 

of  men  was  not  wroth, 

36.  Her  herald  caused  the  divine 

anointed  ones  to  turn  unto 
her. 

27.  The      pious      sons     of     men 

she 

28.  Ninkurra  the  pious 

29.  My  king  the  terror  filled,  the 

terror  filled, 

30.  His  foot  alone  on  the  ship  had 

set. 

31.  Two  "bumbles"  as  watchmen 

on  guard  he  had  placed. 

32.  Doubly  he  had  caulked  the  ship; 

torches  he  had  lighted. 

33.  Enki  devastated  the  fields. 


>Thii  title  of  Nintud  does  not  occur  in  the  great  lisi.  CT,  34, 13  and  24,3;  bui  has  ihe  same 
import  as  the  title  Ninbarsat,  "lady  of  the  mountains."  Eloth  names  reflect  the  ancient  home 
of  a  mountain  dwelling  people  who  spoke  of  their  great  mother  goddess  in  this  way.  In  fact 
the  great  list  does  apply  this  name  to  the  major  type  of  mother  goddess  Innini,  CT,  25.  )o, 
Obv.  5.  This  aspect  common  to  both  branches  of  the  unmarried  goddess  is  seen  in  ^NitUud 
amo-nui  kiir-kAr-re'gt,  "Nintud,  great  mother,  she  of  the  mountains,"  Babyl.  Littirfitt  No,  loi 
II.  3  and  7.  In  later  texts  Ninkurra  developed  into  a  patroness  of  stonecutters  and  quite  an 
independent  deily,  II  R.  ;8,  68;  VR  61  IV  17;  Zimmehn,  Btilrige.  141.  i^  < hi..  Col.  HI  6; 
also  No.  j8.  ao;  Weissbach,  Miscti,  XII  ji;  CT.  a6,  VI  77;  MEissNER-RosT.S^n/cimft.  p. 


19.  1.  a 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIA 


34.  alag-ga   st4-ba-ni-in-li  a   ''en-ki- 

ga-ka 

35.  ud-di-dm  Hi  ai-a-ni 

36.  ud-elim-dm  Hi  elim-a-ni  Hi  natn- 

sal-a-ka 


id-lum-gim    id-lunt-gim    ia-dug- 

nun-na-gim 
^nin-kur-ra  ia-lum 


''tag-t&g  sal-ni-dtm  in-. . 

'^nin-iud'Ti  ^tag-tug-[Ta\ 

gu-mu-na-de-e 
na-ga-e^-rig  tta-rig-mu. . 


gu~ga-ra-d&g{?)      enim-enim-mu 


34.  The  fields  received  the  waters 
of  Enki. 

35.  It  was  the  first  day  whose 
month  is  the  first. 

36.  It  was  the  ninth  day  whose 
month  is  the  ninth;  the 
month  of  the  cessation  of  the 
waters. 

37.  Like  fat,  like  fat,  like  tallow. 

38.  Ninkurra  (like)  fat  (had  created 
them). 

39.  To  the  divine  Tagtug  she  re- 
vealed secrets   ... 

Nintud    to   the  divine  Tagtug 

spoke. 
"Verily  I  will  purge  thee';  my 

purging 

I  will  tell  thee;  my  words. . . . 

Oh  thou  one  man,  for  me  [they 
were  reckoned,  yea  were  reck- 
oned], 
44.  Enki,  for  me  has  reckoned  [has 
reckoned). 

45 

One  line  broken  from  the  end  of  this  column. 

Reverse  I 

About  twelve  lines  broken  away  before  the  first  traces  of  lines  in  this  column. 

13 sal-ni-dim  igi-in^. ...  I     13 revealed  secrets  [caused]  to 

see. . . . 
14 I     14 

'  See  Thureau-Dangin  in  RA.  1 1.  53  tor  ;  indicating  Ihe  second  person  both  of  the  sub- 
ject and  object. 

>/.  t.,  Ninharsag  witi  explain  bow  Tagtug  escaped  the  universal  catastrophe,  and  secured 
his  pardon. 

■This  verb  occurred  in  the  obliterated  line  Obv.  Ill  39. 


galu-di-dm   md-ra   im-da-lal-[-e- 
ne  im-da-lal-e-ne] 

44.  ''en-ki-ge    md-ra    im-\da-lal-e-ne 

im-da-lal-e-ne] 

45.  igi-im-?-e- 


yGaogIc 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE 


. . a-na 


[i-bara-gu-ul-du-l-ba  DU-um 

e-rab-ga-ra-an-ba  DU-um 

e-a    litg-sH-nun-lug-tud^-mu    ie- 

dUr 
*en-ki-ge    tAg-sH-nun-tiig-tud-mu 

ie-ne-in-diir 
2  gu-ma  a-si-si-*da-ni 

eg  a-bi-in-si 


pd  a-bi-in-si 
kislai  a-bi-in-?' 

nu-gii-iar  a-na  NE. .  . 
gu-ial*  gU-da  itn-h-in-.  . 
a-ba  tne-eti  gihiar 

''en-ki-ge  nu-gii-iar  [ra . . 


i6 in  the  garden. 


■  8.  [In  Ebaraguldu]  stand. 
19.  In  Erabgaran  stattd. 
30.  In  the  temple  may  my   guide 
dwell, 

21.  May  Enki  my  guide  dwell. 

22.  Two   "humbles"   who  fill   with 

water, 

23.  The  water  course    filled   with 

water. 

24.  The  canal  they  filled  with  water. 

25.  The    barren    land    they    irri- 

gaUd{?) .... 

26.  The  gardener 

27.  A  secret 

28.  Who  art  thou?  the  garden 

29.  Enki  to  the  gardener 


Here  four  lines  are  broken  away. 


34 -tm-ma-  .... 

35.  i-bara-gu-ul-diU-ba  im-ma-na-an- 

gub 

36.  i-rab-ga-ra-an-ba^  im-ma-na-an- 

gub  iir-ra-ni  bi-in-mal-e 

37.  ^en-ki-ge   igi-ni-im-ma-an-sig- 

ij|*  mudur  iur-bS-in-dug 


35.  In  E-baraguldu  he  stood. 

36.  In  E-rabgaran  he  stood. 
His  seat  he  took. 

37.  Enki  beheld  him. 
A    scepter   in    his    hand    he 

grasped. 

'  A  title  of  Cirra,  god  of  the  flocks,  and  interpreted  by  la  jf-mtt-Hi,  CT.  34,  41,  9;.  The 
ideogram  is  usually  rendered  by  itunmarm,  a  nose  cord  for  leading  oxen  (also  men,  as  in  Senh. 
Taylor  inscr.  V  74).  iimanu  and  iummaHu  are  obviously  connected  so  that  Girra  is  thus  the 
god  who  leads  the  oxen.  (My  note  in  5BP.  66  n.  1  is  false.}  This  title  is  applied  10  Adad  in 
SBH.  130,  21  and  49. 8,  where  the  phrase  markasmStiin  seems  to  translate  the  ideogram.  An 
unpublished  text  from  Er:ch  impt3yi  mar kasu  as  a  synonym  of  mani,  "[:ader."  InCT.  24, 7.  19 
the  ideogram  fii;-ni-nun-(iij-/ud  designates  apparently  Ninura!3  son  of  Anu,  and  recurs  in  34.)4,]. 

'a-si-si  occurs  also  in  SBP.  ))0,  i6a-ni  mi-ni-in-si  and  perhaps  also  in  Bab.  Litutfies  309 
a-ma-Ht-in-ii-el. 

'  We  expect  dt,  i.  t.,  a-bl-in-4e  =  Ul!i  Jo  ikli,  but  the  sign  is  not  dt. 

•  Read  g&-ial  =  pirHtti.  Voc.  Hitlite,  Berlin  7478  II  38- 

'  The  sign  is  imperfectly  made. 

'Ct.  igi-ili^amaru,  Br.  (ijij;    RA.  10,  74,  39,  and  the  name  of  the  deily  igi-sig-stg,  CT 

34,  ),  3;;    ZiMMF.RN,   Rl.   No.  37.  8. 


,,  Google 


8o  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM- 

38.  ^en-ki-ge  ^Tag-tug-ra  gir-im-ma- 

an-gub 

39,  i-na  al-de-de-e  gdl-kid  gdl-kid 

40.  a-ba  me-en  ja-e  me-en 

4 1 ,  mel-e  nu-gH-lar  ^id-si  giJ-nw' . . . 

42,  X-dingir-itt  ga-mu-ra-ab-sig 

43.  ''Tag-iHg  lag-guUla-ni-ta  e-e  gdl- 

ba-an-kid 

''en-ki-ge  ''Tag-iHg-ra  sal-ni-dim 


iul-di  gar-ra-na  ba-na-ab-sum- 

mu 
i-bara-gu-ul-dii-ba  ba-na-ab-sum- 

mu 
i-rab-ga-ra-an-ba   ba-na-ab-sum- 

mu 
''Tag-tUg  sal-ni-dim  ^ub-mu-na- 

ab-ii  lu-mu-na-sig-gi 


-BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

38.  Enki  for  Tagtug  waited 

39.  In  his  temple  he  cried,  "Open 

the  door,  open  the  door. 

40.  Who  is  it  that  thou  art?" 

41.  "  I  am  a  gardener  joyful " 

42 I  will  cause  to  be  given 

unto  thee. 

43.  The  divine  Tagtug  with  glad 

heart    opened    the    temple's 
door. 

44.  Enki  unto  the  divine  Tagtug 

revealed  secrets. 

45.  His he    gave    unto    him 

joyously. 

46.  In  E-baraguIdu  he  gave  unto 

him. 

47.  In  Erabgaranhegaveuntohim. 

48.  The  divine  Tagtug  was  con- 

fided; the  left  hand  he  raised; 
the  (right)  hand  he  composed. 


Here  about  six  lines  are  obliterated. 


8.  \U im-ma-]an-m& 

9.  Iii im-ma-]an-md 

10.  [H im-ma-]  an-mS 

11.  (6 im-]  ma-an-mS 

'2-  [li ] 

13-  \ii ] 

14.  li  I I  im-ma-an-mii 

15.  ''en-ki-ge    tni-ra    im-da-laUe-^e 

im-da-lal-e-ne 

16.  sukkal-a-ni    dingtr-guda-ne    gii- 

mu-na-de-e 


[The  plant ]  grew. 

[The  plant ]  grew. 

[The  plant ]  grew. 

[The  plant 1  grew. 

[The  plant I  grew. 

1 3.  [The  plant )  grew. 

The  plant grew. 

"Enki,  for  me  they  are  reck- 
oned, they  are  reckoned." 
6.  Her  herald  the  divine  anointed 
ones  called. 


'iii-m 


s  Ihe  ordinary  ideogram  for  litiu,  (ig. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE 


1 7.  a  mi-e  nam-bi  li-bi'Sd 

18.  O'na-dm  bi-€  a-na-dm  bi-e 

19.  sukkal'a-Hi  dingir'gudatu  mw 

na-ni-il-ii 

20.  [lugal\-mu  A-gii'  mu-mi-ab4>i 

2 1 .  murna*-kud-di  ha-kur-t 

22.  lugal-mu  6-gurun  mu^na-db^i 

23.,  mu-na-sir-ri  bd-kur-e 
24.  lugal-mu  A- mu 

2$.  mu-tut-kud-di  ba 

26.  lugal-mu  it-a-giig  mu 


.  mu-na-sir-ri  ba-kur-e 
.  \lugal-mu\  ii?-tu-tu  mu 

.  [wM-tta-kud-di]  ba 

.  {lugal-mu  it ]  mu 

.  [mu~na-sir-ri  ba 

.  [lugal-mu  a mu 

.  {mu-TU-kud-di]  ba 

.  [lugal-mu   a]-  am-la-Tu   mu-na- 

ab-Ug 
.  [mn-Kd-jir-jri  ba-kur-e 
&  nam-bi  bi-in-iar  idb- 

ba  ba-ni-in-di 


17.  As  for  the  plants,  their  fates  I 

have  determined  forever. 

18.  Something  it  is;  something  it  is. 

19.  Her  herald  caused  the  divine 

anointed  ones  to  return  unto 

her. 
30.  My  king  as  to  the  woody  plants 

she  commanded: 
21.  "He  shall  cut  off;  he  shall  eat." 
23.  My  king  as  to  the  fruit  bearing 

plants,  she  commanded: 

23.  "He  shall  pluck;  he  shall  eat." 

24.  My  king  as  to  the plants, 

she  commanded: 

25.  "He  shall   cut   off;    he  shall 

eat." 

26.  My    king    as    to    the    prickly 

plants,  she  commanded: 

27.  "He  shall  pluck;  he  shall  eat." 
38.  My  king  as  to  the  plants 

she  commanded: 

29.  "[He  shall  cut  off;]   he  shall 

eat." 

30.  [My  king  as  to  the  plants ] 

she  commanded : 

31.  "[He    shall    pluck;     he    shall 

eat]." 

33.  [My  king  as  to  the  plants 

she  commanded] : 

33,  "(He  shall  cut  off;  he  shall 
eat.]" 

34-  [My  king)  the  cassia  plant  ap- 
proached. 

35.  He  plucked;  he  ate. 

36 the  plant,  its  fate  she  had 

determined;  therein  she  came 
upon  it.' 


'  Thb  Icrni  appears  to  refer  to  exogenous  plants  whose  fniiis  were  used  for  food. 
*iu  in  the  verbal  forms  of  lines  31-33  ^^^  probably  a  locative  force,  "therefrom." 
*  For  the  grammatical  elucidation  of  this  passage  see  PSBA.  1914.  191,  note  8. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


37.  'nin-iar-sag-gd-ge    mu    ^en-ki 

nam-erim  ba-an-kud 

38.  i-di  na-dm-ti-la  en-tm  ba-dig-gi-a 

i-di-ba-Ta-an-bar-ri-en 

39.  ^a-nun-na-ge-ne  sagar-ta  im-mi- 

in-dur-duT-ru-ne-ei 

40.  ^i-a  ^ertrlil-ra  mu-na-ra-ab-bi 

41.  ma-e  ^nin-gar-sag-gct  mu-e-ii-du- 

mwun  a-ma-dm  nig-ba-mu 


42.  ''en-lil    lud    tul-a    mu-rui-ni-ib- 

ii-ii 

43.  ^a-e  ^nin-^ar-sag-gi  mu-e-du-mu- 

un-nam 

44.  uru-mi  2  gii-mal^  ga-ri-dn  mu-(u 

ie-pad-di 

45.  elim?  sag-ni   dUdm*   im-ma-an- 

pa-pip 

46.  lgir?]-ni    di-dm    im-ma-an-bur- 

bur 

47.  i|i-«i  ai-dm  gibil-bi-in-gar 


37- 


39- 


Ninharsag  in  the  name  of  Enki 
uttered  a  curse. 

"The  face  of  life  until  he  dies 
not  shall  he  see."* 

The  Anunnaki  in  the  dust  sat 
down  (to  weep).' 

Angrily  unto  EnliL  she  spoke. 

"[  Ninharsag  begat  thee  chil- 
dren and  what  is  my  re- 
ward P"' 

42.  Enlil  the  begetter  angrily  re- 

plied; 

43.  Thou  oh  Ninharsag  hast  be- 

gotten children,  (therefore) 

44.  "  In  my  city  two  creatures   I 

will  make  for  thee,"  shall  thy 
name  be  called. 

45.  The   renowned — his   head  as   a 

prototype  she  had  moulded. 

46.  His  foot  as  a  prototype  she  had 

designed. 

47.  His  eyes  as  a  prototype  she  had 

made  luminous. 


n  the  legend  of  creation  DT.  41  line  9,  Ninigiaiag,  r.  (.,  Ea,  creates  two  fu-ia-[rtl.  This 
n  is  plausible  but  uncertain.  "Two  small  creatures"  is  the  version  generally  given 
for  this  line.     giUmal  would  be  rendered  perhaps  by  iikttalu,  "creature." 

•Literally  maprii,  rtstH,  "first." 

'pa,  "to  sculpture,"  paiSiti,  fiafSda.  Both  verbs  are  doubtful  but  for  pafidu  compare 
Messerschhidt,  KTA.  18.  7,  jiiiiV  ladl  ina  afgitUat  Iri  lu-pi-si-id,  "the  living  rock  with  bronze 
axes  I  hewed."     Note  also  ^21  =  f'Ur^uUu,  sculptor,  and  ^nuru,  plate. 

'That  is  freedom  from  disease  he  shall  no  longer  have. 

•A  similar  passage  occurs  in  the  Babylonian  version.  Epic  oj  Gilfamisb  XI  11;,  where  "the 
gods  who  are  the  Anunnaki"  weep  over  mankind  with  Uhtar  who  had  begotten  men.  The 
teit  has  iJoBi  Iii-kJ ''M-H»n-iiij-*i.  For  in-ill  in  the  sense  of  I'J  est,  "that  is,"  seeCT.  17,41,  13, 
'Nitdud  }u-ut  ''Mai,  "Nintud.  that  is  Mah." 

'  With  this  passage  compare  Genesis  6,  6;  "And  Jahweh  repented  that  he  had  made  man 
Oil  the  earth  and  he  was  vexed  in  his  heart."  See  also  on  the  idea  of  God's  expressing  regret 
for  what  he  had  done  in  Hebrew,  Skinner,  GtnesU  151. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGEWN — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  83 

Reverse  III 


6 n€  en  ^en-lil 

7 ne  en-ii 

8.   . .  .lu  mu-du-ne  en  dingi) 


About  five  lines  are  broken  away. 
6. 


9 iu  mu-du-ne  en . 


10.  ?  ?  ni-me-a  ii{?)mu-mu  ?  ?  mu 


12.  ^nin-^ar-sag-gi-ge  ?  im-. . 
"3 


15 

16 

17 teg  ha-an- .... 

18.  ^nin-gar-sag-^g-ge  i  ?  kcts-im-ma- 

an- 

19.  ''en'lil tu-ga-ni   ba-an-tub- 

bi-ei 

20.  li-im-ra  -an-ag-fi 

21.  nanfim-ma-an'tar-ei 

22.  iu'li  im-ra-an-b&r-nt-ui 

23.  ''nin-^ar-sag-gi-ge la-na 

ba-ni-in-tilb 

24.  iei-mu  a-na-iu  a-ra-gig 

25.  utul-?-tnu  ma-gig 

26.  ''aba*  im-ma'ta-an'twud 

27.  iei-mu  a-na-ju  a-ra-gig 

28.  H-  lul^mu  ma-gig 

29.  ''nin-tul-h^  im-ma-ra-an-lu-ud 


the  lord  Enlit 

' the  lord 

1.  To they    went,    the    lord, 


9.  To.  ...they  went,  the  lord  of 
the  gods .... 


12.  Ninharsag. 


18.  Ninharsag. 


19.  Of    Enlil, 
posed. 


in    his. . .  .they    re- 


2j .  Fates  they  declared. 

22.  Destiny  they  fixed. 

23.  Ninharsag  in  her reposed. 

24.  "My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?" 

25.  "My  pastures  are  distressed." 

26.  "Abu  I  have  created  for  thee." 

27.  "Mybrotherwhatof theeisill?" 

28.  "My  flocks  are  distressed." 

29.  "The  queen  of  the  flocks  I  have 

created  for  thee." 


'  Read  dmiir-ri-7U-ge(?) . 

'  For  Abu  or  Tammui  as  a  palron  of  pastures  and  flocks  se 
161  and  8.  In  line  41  below  his  protection  over  vegetation 
gram  CI  ^  in  line  i;  is  followed  by  a  broken  sign  the  wholi 
group  of  signs  for  re'itu,  pasture. 

*  Nintulla  also  in  CT.  14,  j6,  1 1 ),  where  she  is  the  consort 


'  Tammiii  and  Isblar,  p.  ;4  n.  ;, 
;  emphasized.  Since  the  ideo- 
may  possibly  be  an  unknown 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


Ui-mu  a-na-ju  a-ra-ju  KA  mu 

ma-gig 
'Nin-KA  H-tud  im-ma-TO-atv-tu- 

ud 
iei-mu  a-na-ju  a-ra-gig  ka  mu 

ma-gig 


33.  ^nin-ka-si^  im-ma-ra-an-iu-ud 

34.  iei-mu  a-na-ju  a-ra-gig  | . . . .  mu 

ma-gig] 

35.  'tta-ji*  im-mt^-Ta-[an-tu--ud] 

36.  Ui'mua-tia-iu  a-ra-gig  do'l^i-mu 

ma-gig] 

37.  ''Da-ii-trUt-a  im-ma-ra-[an-tu-ud\ 

38.  sei-mu  a-^na-iu  a-ra-gig  til-lmu 

ma-gig] 

39.  ^nin-til*  im-ma-ra-an-[fu-ud] 

40.  ie!-mu  a-tuz-iu  a-ra-gig  mi-mu 

[ma-gig] 

4 1 .  ^en-idg-mi  imrma-ra-an-[turud\ 

42.  mi-lul-hi-ba^  itt-ne-en-na-di  gar- 

ra-[ne-en-na-di] 

43.  ^ab-ii  lugal  6  je-a 

44.  ''nin-tul-Ia  en  md-gan-na  ie-a 


30.  "  My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"    "My  ....  is  ill." 

31.  "  Nin-KA-U-tud  I  have  created 

for  thee." 

32.  "  My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"      "My  mouth    is    dis- 
tressed." 

33.  "The  queen  who  fills  the  mouth 

(with  wine)  I  have  created  for 
thee." 

34.  "  My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"     "My  ....  is  ill." 

35.  "The    goddess    Naji    I    have 

created  for  thee." 

36.  "My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"     "My  ....  is  ill." 

37.  "The  goddess  Dazimi  I  have 

created  for  thee." 

38.  "My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"     "My  health  is  ill." 

39.  "The    queen    of    life    I    have 

created  for  thee." 

40.  "My  brother  what  of  thee  is 

ill?"     "My  understanding  is 
distressed." 

41.  "The    Lord   who   renders  the 

understanding  good    I    have 
created  for  thee." 

42.  Since  grandly  were  they  born, 

(grandly)  they  do,' 

43.  Abu  lord  of  vegetation  let  be. 

44.  Nintulla  lord^  of  Magan  let  be. 


■  Ninkasi  is  a  title  of  Geltinana,  the  vine  goddess. 

*  See  alK>  CT.  34,  48,  10;  a  handmaid  o(  Sin. 
•Texl  W£/ 

'  Probably  goddess  of  femininity.     In  line  48  she  is  connected  with  the  month  (.Hi)  and  in 
I  R.  66  Rev.  4  she  follows  ""a -fl-(-/«,  "Father  of  the  month?" 

*  The  text  has  Id-ld;  cf.  Sum,  Gr.  f4)  and  p.  148  Jul.  1. 

'  The  restoration  is  uncertain.     Cf.  Sum.  Gr.  ja  1 1  for  emphatic  eti-na. 
'  Sid     Here  a  male  divinily.' 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   EPIC  OF   PARADISE  85 

45.  MayNin-KA-u-tudNinazupos- 


45-  *ntn-KA-u-iud  'nin-a'^u  ia-ba- 

OH-tuk-tuk 
46,  *'«jM-fcj-ji  nii-iag'Si  ie-a 


*na-p  ktitu-wt-dar-a  ia-ba'on- 

tttk-tuk 
''da-ji-mH-a ji-im  ^a-ba-an- 

tuk-luk 
''nin-{til\  nin'tli-e  ie^a 

('«i-M|-«i^]  en  Dilmun-^ia  le-a 

jag-sal^ 


46.  May  Ninkasi  be  she  that  fills 

the  heart. 

47.  May  Nazi  the  lord  of    

possess.' 

48.  May  Dazima possess. 

49.  May  Nintil  be  the  mistress  of 

the  month. 

50.  May  EnSagme  be  lord  of  Dil- 

mun. 

51.  Praise! 


Note  on  Obverse  111,  ii 

The  two  watchmen  correspond  to  the  boatman  of  Uta- 
napiSlim  in  the  Gilgamish  Epic  story.  In  that  legend  we 
have  considerable  warrant  for  supposing  that  on  the  ship 
UtanapiStim  really  had  two  boatmen  also,  for  there  is  great 
confusion  regarding  the  name  of  the  boatman.  In  Col.  X 
his  name  occurs  six  times  as  Ur-Nimin*  and  in  the  same  manner 
seven  times  in  Col.  XI.  Since  Nimin  or  "forty,"  is  the  sacred 
number  for  the  god  Ea,  this  name  should  probably  be  ren- 
dered Ur-Ea.  On  the  other  hand,  the  same  name  occurs  twice 
in  Col.  XI  as  Ur-NinnD,  where  Ninnu  or  "fifty,"  is  the 
sacred  number  of  Enlil.  In  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental 
Society,  Vol.  23,  48-50,  the  author  concluded  that  the  original 

<Cf.  Hiilorical  oTid  Relifious  Tixts,  BE.  XXX i,  p.  i8. 

'  Uncertain.  Ninazu,  "Lord  of  healing."  is  an  epithet  of  Netgal.  I  understand  the  line  to 
mean,  "May  N.  have  Ninazu's  skill." 

<  Nimin,  written  with  four  heads,  is  the  sacred  number  of  the  god  Ea.  By  confusion  this 
sign  came  to  mean  lanahi  (4/6)  which  in  No.  4604  (pt. '1)  actually  means  Ea.  Dhonhe 
seems  10  be  responsible  for  the  reading  UrShanabi,  which  Ungnad  arul  Rogers  have  adopted. 
Thuriau-Dangin  explained  the  origin  of  ianabi,  see  OLZ.   1909,  )3)  and  Sum.  Gr.  p.  111. 


,,  Google 


86  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

name  was  Ur-Enlil  or  Ur-Ninnu;  but  in  XI  95  this  same 
boatman  is  named  Pji-^u-ur-"''Kurgal,  which  I  take  to  be  a 
Semitic  view  of  the  meaning  of  the  Sumerian  name  Ur-Enlil. 
If  this  be  true  then  we  have  only  one  boatman  in  this  story. 
If,  however,  Puiur-'''Kurgal  represents  originally  another  per- 
son then  this  story  also  mentioned  two  boatmen.  In  favor 
of  regarding  Puiur-f'Kurgal  as  identical  with  Ur-Enlil  is  first 
of  all  the  fact  that  ""Kur-gal  in  this  poem,  which  was  com- 
posed in  the  period  of  the  first  Babylonian  dynasty,  obviously 
refers  to  Enlil;  see  for  this  meaning  of  kUr-gal,  SBP.  220,  1; 
280,  13;  IV  Raw.  23  A  29.  The  reading  Puiur-^^'Amurrii} 
is  certainly  false,  for  kur-gal  became  a  title  of  the  western  Adad 
or  "'Amurru,  only  in  the  late  period;  see  Clay,  BE.  X  7  ff, 
and  Tallquist,  Namenbucb  233.  Even  here  kur-gal  probably 
refers  to  Enlil  in  most  cases.  Pu^ur-^'Kurgal,  or  Pu^ur-"* Enlil, 
means,  "The  secret  of  Enlil,"  a  name  the  Semites  may  have 
devised  to  replace  Ur-Enlil,  since  by  the  craft  of  Ea,  the  secret 
plan  of  Enlil  was  revealed  to  Uta-napi§tlm.  Then  again  the 
Sumerian  Ur  may  possibly  have  the  meaning  puiru,  "secret." 
Note  that  the  Sumerian  for  pujru  is  gi-ra,  CT.  12,  2 B  15.  It 
is  possible  that  UR  also  had  a  value  gir.  Both  UR  and  NITAlj 
have  the  meaning  ardu,  "male,"  and  hllTAH  has  the  value 
gir  as  is  proven  by  "'NITAH-ra  =  gi-ra,  in  Messerschmidt, 
KTA.  26,  12.  Also  gir-ra  =  gasru,  "strong,"  IV  R.  9A  36,  a 
title  of  the  moon-god  and  gir-glr-ni=mugda$ru,  "the  power- 
ful," IV  R.  21 B  rev.,  14;  gh-ra  glossed  ga-aS-ru,  K.  69,  obv. 
6  =  SBH.  19,  42.  But  the  ordinary  meaning  of  both  NITAIj 
and  UR  is,  "virile,  strong,  manly,"  hence  UR  may  well  have 
the  value  gir.    Supposing  this  to  be  true  this  sign  would  readily 

'  So  Ungnad,  AUoritnUitiiche  TexU  and  Bildir  32,  and  he  is  erroneously  followed  by 
Rogers,  Cunti/orm  PariUltIs  94. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    EPIC   OF    PARADISE  O7 

be  used  for  writing  the  word  gira{  =  puzTu)  also.  Pu-^u-ur- 
""Kurgal,  may  be  a  Semitic  translation  of  Ur-'''Kurgal,  or  Ur- 
"'Enlil.  Any  of  these  theories  may  account  for  the  various 
forms  of  this  name  and  we  have  probably  to  assume  but  one 
boatman  in  the  Babylonian  account.  Nevertheless  the  sug- 
gestion of  two  names  which  may  have  been  confused  is  possible 
in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  Nippurian  version  has  two  pilots 
or  watchmen. 


y  Google 


FRAGMENT   OF  A   LEGEND   CONCERNING 
ZI-UD-SUD-DU,  HERO  OF  THE  FLOOD 

This  single  column  tablet  (No.  4611)  probably  belongs  to 
still  another  epic  on  the  Flood  and  the  Fall  of  Man,  which  in 
this  case  was  redacted  on  a  series  of  small  tablets.  The  portion 
here  preserved  consists  of  twenty-one  consecutive  lines  from  the 
end  of  the  obverse  and  top  of  the  reverse  of  a-  tablet  now  num- 
bered 461  r  in  the  University  Museum  Collection.  In  these 
lines  a  divinity  which  is  almost  certainly  the  mother  goddess 
Nintud  instructs  the  survivor  of  the  Flood  in  religious  and 
political  matters.  The  same  situation  occurs  in  both  the  Epics 
which  have  been  already  published  from  the  Museum  Collec- 
tion. After  the  Flood  Nintud  begins  an  address  to  the  royal 
survivors  at  the  end  of  Col.  Ill  in  the  Epic  of  the  Fall  of  Man 
(No.  4561).  The  hero  is  there  called  Tagtug.  This  address 
is  almost  wholly  lost  on  that  tablet,  but  the  succeeding  address 
to  Tagtug  by  Enki  and  also  another  by  the  mother  goddess 
have  been  preserved  there.  The  Epic  of  Creation  and  the 
Flood  (No.  10673)  'ti  Col.  IV  also  contains  an  address  to  this 
hero  who  there  bears  the  same  name. as  in  fragment  No.  4611. 
Here  Nintud'  warns  her  protege  concerning  the  catastrophe 
and  provides  for  his  escape  in  a  ship  precisely  as  in  the  Epic 
of  the  Fall.  But  the  fragmentary  lines  at  the  end  of  the 
sixth  column  of  the  Epic  of  Creation  and  the  Flood  (No. 
10673)  have  led  us  to  infer  that  according  to  this  version 
Zi-ud-sud-du   (or  Zi-ud-gid-du)   was   translated   to  a  blessed 

'  This  divinity  is  mosi  ceriainly  the  subject  of  the  address  in  No,  J067), 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN  LANGEWN — FRAGMENT  CONCERNING  Zl-UD-SUD-DU        09 

land  or  isle.  On  the  contrary,  the  Epic  of  the  Fall  makes 
htm  (Tagtug)  a  gardener  and  like  the  Biblical  account  of 
Noah  he  continues  his  life  among  men. 

From  the  fragment  4611  it  is  obvious  that  this  third 
version  held  the  same  view  of  the  survivor  of  the  Flood. 
Zi-ud-sud-du  continues  his  earthly  career  and  under  the  guid- 
ance of  the  gods  teaches  men  the  proper  worship  of  the  gods 
and  establishes  justice  and  mercy  among  men.  We  shall  with 
further  investigation  of  the  Nippur  Collection  recover  other 
portions  of  this  legend  and  the  instructions  revealed  to  the 
hero  of  the  Flood  for  the  regulation  of  human  society.  We 
may  also  expect  sooner  or  later  to  recover  portions  of  these 
post-diluvian  instructions  and  revelations  which  correspond 
to  those  delivered  to  Noah  in  both  the  J^  and  P  documents. 

The  information  derived  from  fragment  461 1  throws  doubt 
upon  our  interpretation  of  the  last  lines  of  No.  10673,  in  which 
Zi-ud-sud-du  is  supposed  to  have  been  translated  from  among 
men.'  This  assumption  was  based  more  upon  the  Babylonian 
statements  concerning  Utanapishtim  and  those  of  Berossus 
concerning  Xisuthrus  than  upon  anything  in  the  text  of  No. 
L0675.  Nevertheless  the  fragmentary  lines  do  point  to  this 
conclusion  and  we  must  assume  that  the  Sumerians  held  con- 
flicting views  about  the  post-diluvian  history  of  Zi-ud-sud-du 
or  Tagtug.  They  also  applied  two  epithets  to  this  hero  and 
the  fragment  which  is  edited  on  the  following  page  shows  that 
Zi-ud-sud-du  and  Tag-tug  denote  the  same  person. 


■Genesis,  8,  jj-aa. 
'Genesis,  9,  1-17. 
'See above,  p.  1;,  and  Poebel,  Crealion  and  Deluge,  p.  61. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


4611 

Obverse 


.ga-. 


2.  ji-ud-svd-du^     enim     ga-[ra-ah 

dig-dug] 
}.  na-ri-ga-mu?    iu-ji-di     [ga-mu- 

nariga] 
4.  dUg-dug-ga  mu-na-ab-te{g) 


2.  Oh    Zi-udsuddu    a    command 

"(1  will  speak  to  thee]' 

3.  My  purification  faithfully  [will 

I  accomplish]." 

4.  Words  to  him  she  spoke 


Reverse 
.  TUD  na-an-ga(  lag  (?)  i?  1 . 


m-gax-gai  {ag  ingar  e~ 


\gai-gai?] 


3 H'i^  na-an-gaj-ga^  jag. 


4.  sag-kHr-ra*  kiir-bi-il-ia  e-. 


5.  galu    ki-nu-iu-a'Hi    ia-u-um. . 


6.  dumu-mu  ki  'babbar  i-a 

7.  a  iu-mu-Ta'an-de-e  igi-ju-tH  ie 


8.  i-nu-tuk  i'a-ni  tUl-la-ba 

9.  uru-nu-tuk  uru-ni  t&l-la-ba 
10,  la-ba-da-dug-li    e-la-li? 


1 1 .  \dumu-]mu  ki  *babbaT-i-[a] 
12 na-an-ni 


In not   shall  be  sacri- 
ficed; beside  the 

In not  shall  be  sacrificed; 

beside  the  brick  wall  shalt 

thou    [iocrifice] 
In. ,  .of  the  palace  not  shall  be 

sacrificed;    beside  the 

[sbalt  tbou  sacrifice] 
The  slave  from  a  strange  land, 

to  his  land  thou  shalt  (cause 

to  return] 
Him  that  knows  no  place  (home) 

shalt  thou  cause  to  [ ] 

My  son  where  the  sun  goes  up, 
Shall  he  be  thy  water  libator, 

before  thee. . .  .shall  he 

Of  him  that  has  no  house,  his 

house  enlarge. 
Of  him  that  has  no  city,  his 

city  enlarge. 
Him  that  is  not  happy,  with 

joy  [enthuse]. 
My  [son]  where  the  sun  goes  up. 


'  In  view  of  this  reading  and  of  ji-sud-da—ul-na-pll-U,  CT.  j8,  jo  a  g,  ii  is  probable  that  the 
sign  BU  in  Ni.  1067}  Obv,  111  10,  Rev.  IV  a,  V  7  haj  the  value  luj  and  that  the  vowel  k  at  the 
end  is  due  to  harmony. 

'See  also  Ni.  10673  Rev.  [V  ;  and  na-ri-mu.  Ni.  4561  Obv.  Ill  41. 

'  Restored  from  Ni.  1067}  Rev.  IV  4,  and  4561  Obv,  Ml  43, 

*CfNITAHxKOR  =  ardu. 


y  Google 


DESCRIPTION  OF  PLATES 


I,  II Light  brown  tablet.     Baked.     Built  up  from  three  fragments. 

Nearly  complete.  Three  columns  on  obverse,  and  three  on 
reverse.  Measurements  in  centimeters,  19.7X1 3.6X3. 
Sumerian  epic  of  Paradise,  the  Flood  and  the  Fall  of  Man. 
C.B.S.  4561 .  Period  of  the  Isin  Dynasty. 

Ill,  IV Light  brown  tablet.     Unbaked.     Large  fragment  from  right 

edge  of  a  three  column  tablet  containing  a  Semitic  poem  on 
the  creation  of  mankind.  Formerly  published  by  Dr.  T.  G. 
Pinches,  Cutui/orm  Tablets  0/  the  British  Museum,  Vol.  VI., 
pi.  6.  Measurements  in  centimeters,  14X13X2,;.  Bu. 
91-5-g,  269;  in  the  British  Museum.  Period  of  First  Baby- 
lonian Dynasty.    See  page  2$. 

IV Slate-colored  fragment  from  right  edge  of  a  baked  tablet  belong- 
ing to  the  ASurbanipal  Library.  Not  more  than  half  the 
column  is  preserved  in  width  and  only  a  slight  portion  of  the 
column  in  length.  The  text  belongs  to  the  Assyrian  redaction 
of  the  Eridu  version  of  the  Fall  of  Man  and  is  a  variant  of 
part  of  the  obverse  of  a  large  tablet  found  at  Amarna,  which 
contains  the  central  portion  of  the  Canaanitish  Version. 
See  Knudtzon,  Die  El-Amarna  Tafeln,  No.  356.  K.  8743; 
in  the  British  Museum.    See  page  42. 

IV  A Light  brown.     Baked.     End  of  obverse  and  top  of  reverse  of 

a  single  column  tablet.  Measurements  in  centimeters, 
7X51X2.5.    C.B.S.  4611.    Seepage90- 


y  Google 


INDEX 


y4bel,  patron  of  flocks,  52;  corre- 
sponds to  Abu  in  Sumerian. 

^bu  (ilu),  god  of  vegetation  and 
flocks,  52;  83,26;  88,43. 

Adam,  in  Hebrew  version  a  sage. 
57.  Not  philologically  con- 
nected with  Adapa,  64  n.  1. 

Adapa,  22  n.  4.  Story  of,  in  Eridu 
version,  38  ff.  Fisherman,  41 
n.  2,  Rejects  immortality,  45. 
Brings  disease  upon  mankind, 
46;  47;  53.  Derivation  of  name, 
64  n.  1. 

Abikar,  32. 

Alaparus,  Adapa,  64. 

Alorus,  63. 

Allotie  de  la  Fuye,  21 ;   25. 

Ama.  A-mh,  title  of  Nintud  at 
Agade,  see  Mami. 

Amelon,  64. 

Amempsinm,  65. 

Amrmnon,  64. 

Ana  {ilu),  assists  in  creating  man, 
'7- 

Anunnaki  {ilu),  82,  39. 

Acs,  Greek  for  Ea,  14. 

Apolodoms,  30  n.  1;  33. 

Arum  (Hat),  title  of  mother  goddess 
as  creatress.  The  word  con- 
tains the  root  ^ru  =  banii,  "to 
build."  Sister  of  Enlil,  1 7  n.  3. 
Fashions  man  from  clay,  17; 
18;  19;  22.  Creates  animals 
(?),23n.  4.  Asapotter.29n.  i. 
Belongs  to  Nippur  pantheon, 
23.  A  late  title  of  Nintud, 
Ninbarsag,    Mami;   not   found 


before  Isin  period  and  never 
in  n.  pra.  nin-mai  ''A-ru-ru, 
KL  23,  5.  In  a  list  found  by 
ScKEiL  at  Sippar  she  occurs 
with  ^Nintud  and  "^Ninmag, 
Recueil  de  Travaux  (ed.  Mas- 
pero),  XVI 1  32.  CT.  24,  12. 
22  [^A-]ru'ru  is  one  of  the 
titles  of  Belit-ilani,  i.e.,  Nintud 
(1.  13),  Ninbarsag  (I.  3).  Cf. 
24,  25,  86.  She  is  connected 
with  Adab  in  SBP.  24,  4 
[Adah-]  bu-ra-ge  and  26,  5  she  is 
the  great  goddess  mother  of 
Adab^bu-ra-ge.  Cf.  BL.  72,  1. 
In  BL.  No.  102  she  is  connected 
with  KeS.  A  hymn  to  Aruru, 
KL.  173  Rev.  10.  She  is  also 
the  mother  goddess  type  in 
Sippar,  PSBA.  1911  PI.  XI  9. 
A  penitential  psalm  to  Aruru 
as  nin-mag,  IV  R.  53  til  40. 
On  boundary  stones  she  has  the 
same  symbol  as  Ninharsag, 
ZiMMERN  in  Frank,  Bilder  34  ff. 
[There  identified  with  the  fal- 
con but  Bab.  VI  220  identi- 
fies the  falcon  with  Nidaba.] 
For  her  symbol  see  Ninharsag. 

Aiiirgi  (ilu),  title  of  Ninib.  Man 
made  in  his  image,  21. 

Aliur,  city,  12. 

Atar^asis,  poem  of,  18.  See  Xisu- 
thrus. 

Athena,  aids  Prometheus  in  creating 
man,  30. 

Babbar  {ilu),  72,  7;  73,  19. 


,,  Google 


93 


Babylonian  map  of  the  world,  1 1 . 

Berossus,  his  pre-diluvian  genealo- 
gies. 63  f . 

Boatmen,  two  boatmen,  76, 1 1 .  Con- 
nected with  Puzur-Enlil,  85  ff. 

Cain,  <^2. 

Campbell,  Colin,  35  n.  3. 

Canaaniiisb  transformation  of  Baby- 
lonian sources,  46  n.  2. 

Cassia,  eaten  by  Tagtug,  ;i;  54; 
81.34- 

Clay,  A.  T..  65;  86. 

Clermont-Canneau,  36  n.  4. 

Clothing,  of  Adapa,  46;  of  Adam, 
46  n.  I. 

Cooke,  G.  A.,  36  n.  4. 

Crflig,  y.  A..  18. 

Creation  of  man  from  clay.  In 
Babylonia,  16  ff.  18.  Blood 
and  bone,  23;  blood  and  clay, 
25.  In  image  of  Ninib,  21. 
In  Greek  mythology,  19  ff. 
In  Egyptian  mythology,  34  f. 
Animal  vitality,  28.  Creation 
bi-lingual  tablet  an  incanta- 
tion,  23;  27. 

Creation  and  Flood  Epic,  published 
by  PoEBEL,  its  contents  and 
relation  to  the  Epic  of  Paradise. 
i4ff.  Its  relation  to  Nippurian 
theology,  27. 

Damgalnunna  {ilat),  74,  31. 

Dabnus,  64. 

Daiima  (ilu),  52;  84,  37;  85,  48. 

Delit^sch,  Friedrich,  g;   12, 

Democritus,  32. 

Dilmun,  land  and  city,  13.  Sume- 
rian  Paradise,  14;  69;  70;  72; 
731  85,  50.  Location  of,  8  ff. 
Ideograms  for,  8  n.  1. 

Dionysus  Zagreus,  34. 


Dborme,  18;  19;  22;  23;  26;  28; 
40;  42;   ;i;  66;  85. 

Ebaraguldu,  79,  18;  80,  46. 

Eden,  14. 

Enki  {ilu),  water  god.  assists  in 
creating  man,  1 7.  Creates 
minor  deities,  22  n.  1 .  In  Eridu 
theology  he  creates  man.  23; 

26  ff.  Creates  cattle,  27.  Rules 
in  Paradise.  27  f.      As  potter, 

27  n.  I.  In  Nippur  Epic  of 
Fall,  70;  71;  73;  74;  75:76: 
77;  78;  79- 

Enkidu,  19. 

Enlil  (ilu),  as  begetter  of  man,  16  f. 

Assists  Aruru,  23.     Brother  of 

Arum,  17  n.  3;  82,  40;  83,  19. 
Enoch,  translated,  16  n.  1 ;    52. 
Eniagml  (ilu),  52;  84,  41 ;  85,  50. 
Erabgaran,  79,  19,  36;  80, 47. 
Erinna,  Greek  writer,  31 . 
Eridu,  its  version  of  the  Fall,  38  ff. 

Rejects  free  will,  48. 
Euedoracbus,  65. 
Famell,  L.  R.,  31  n.  2. 
Flood,  epic  of,  15.     Its  duration  in 

various  sources.  60. 
Fra^er,  Sir  James,  52. 
Four  rivers  of  Genesis  2,  p.  11. 
Garden,   in   Nippur  epic  after   the 

Flood,  14. 
Gardener,  Tagtug,  79,  26,  29;  80,  41 ; 

50.     In  Hebrew  N5ah,  50  n.  1. 
Cood  and  evil,  revealed    to  Adapa 

and  Adam,  44. 
Harper,  R.  F.,  5;  19. 
Hathor,  35. 
Hawwa,  Phoenician  serpent  goddess, 

35;   assists  as  Eve  in  creation 

of  man,  36. 
Hehet.  35. 


y  Google 


94 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


Hesiod,  3j. 

Hommel,  Friix,  64. 

Horace,  30  n.  4;  33  n.  3. 

Hyginus.  30  n.  5- 

Immortality,  withheld  from  Adapa, 
40;  Adam,  41;  50.  Idea  of 
late,  59. 

had,  52. 

J  document  in  Hebrew,  depends  upon 
both  Eridu  and  Nippur  systems, 
56  fT.  Secondary  J  containing 
tree  of  life  and  in  its  lost  por- 
tions attributing  the  Fall  of 
man  to  revelation  by  a  jealous 
God,  59.    Genealogy  in  J,  62  f, 

Jabal,  Jubal,  Tubal-Cain,  52. 

Jastrow,  Morris,  9. 

Jealousy  of  God,  43;  49;  49  n.  1. 
A  late  mystic  doctrine,  56  n.  i. 
Not  in  Hebrew  J,  58.  In 
secondary  J  source,  58  f. 

Jensen,  P.,  19. 

Jeremias,  Alfred,  18;  23;  24. 

Ka,  in  Egyptian  religion,  34  n.  3. 

Khnum,  34;  35. 

King.  L.  W.,  8;  24;  25. 

Knudtion,  38  n.  2. 

Lamech,  52  n.  6. 

Laranchae,  65.     Part  of  Isin,  66  n.  2. 

Lidsbarski,  36  n.  4. 

Lucian,  30  n.  2;  30. 

lugal-mu,  "My  king,"  76,  9;  77, 
29;  81,  20,  22,  24,  26,  28,  30, 
32.  34- 

Magic  and  divination,  revealed  to 
man,  43;  44;  48. 

Mama  (ilat),  see  Mami. 

Mami  (ilat),  title  of  mother  goddess 
as  creatress,  17  f .  Creates  man 
from  blood  and  clay,  25.  In 
great  theological  list,  CT.  24, 


13,  41=2$.  96.  Same  name 
as  earlier  ''Ma-ma,  root  ^mal= 
6a«<i,  "to  build,  create."  Mama 
does  not  occur  before  Sargon 
the  ancient,  but  the  title  is 
earlier  than  Aruru.  Without 
dingir  in  n.  pr.  at  Agade;  Gimil- 
ma-ma,  St61e  of  ManiStusu, 
8,  22:  at  Ur  also  without  din- 
gir; Amar-ma-ma,  Ur-ma-ma, 
Lecrain,  Les  Rois  d'Ur,  331,  7. 
Cf.  Ur-ma-mi,  Thureau-Dan- 
ciN,  Recueil  de  Textes  Chal- 
diens,  353  I  3,  but  Ur-*'Ma-mi, 
398 1 1 4;  Bur-'' Ma-mi,  DeCIercq 
Catalogue,  209.  In  Hammu- 
rapi  period,  Utul-*'Ma-mi,  and 
Ma-mi-5arrat,  Ranke,  Personal 
Names,  201 .  SeealsoTHUREAU- 
Dangin,  Leitres  el  Contrats,  63. 
Hymn  in  Semitic  to  Ma-ma, 
CT.  15.  I  f.  In  proper  names 
of  Cassite  period  ''Ma-ma;  see 
Clay,  Personal  Names  of  the 
Cassite  Period,  206,  Disappears 
after  Cassite  period.  In  theo- 
logical list,  CT.  24,  13,  40  =  25, 
96.  The  title  A-ma  and  /i-md 
(MAL)  is  connected  with  Ma- 
ma, and  is  the  ordinary  title 
of  the  mother  goddess  Nintud 
at  Agade.  §argalisarri  built 
her  temple  at  Babylon  (SAK. 
225c),  in  Neo-Baby  Ionian 
period  called  Emah  of  Ninmah, 
see  VAB.  IV,  Index.  For  this 
temple  to  A-mi  in  Babylon  see 
RTC.  118  Rev.  5.  In  n.  pr. 
•"A-mi-iSdagal,  St61e  ManiStu- 
su.  C.  XIII  24;  XIX  28.  The 
priest  of  A-mi,  ibid.    A.  XV 


,,  Google 


95 


)9.  ManiStusu  is  Sakkanak  of 
•"A-mi,  RA.  9, 92,  1 1 .  UrumuS 
mentions  her  with  Shamash  as 
deity  in  Agade,  RA.  8,  138  Col. 
I.  Also  in  a  letter  of  the 
Hammurapi  period,  CT.  29,  43, 
25+40.  [Source  unknown.)  At 
Dir,  a  city  in  ASnunnak, 
mentioned  in  the  Sargon  Stone, 
dated  in  the  nth  year  of 
Sargon  of  Assyria  and  written 
in  Babylonian,  Col.  IV  27,  a 
man  is  iangu  of  ''"A-m&.  In 
Neo- Baby  Ionian  period  the  title 
survives,  "'/Inim  ''"Enlil  u 
''"A-m^  arrassu  marrutu  li-i-ru- 
ur,  "May  Anu,  Enlil  and  Ama 
each  curse  him  with  his  (her) 
bitter  curse,"  Strassmaier, 
Cyrus,  277,  17.  The  title  has 
been  read  falsely  A-£(-  mar 
biti)  in  n.  pra.  of  the  late  period, 
Tallquist,  Neu-babyUmhches 
Namenbuch,  226.  Not  to  be 
confused  with  DUMU-&  =  maT 
bUi.  A  marble  slab  from 
Agade,OBIpl.VIICol.V4has 
'A-mi{Hmvih,BoundarySiotui. 
220).  On  the  other  hand, '^-^ 
=  maT  61ii=Nebo,  is  certain  in 
Vorderasialische  Schriftdenk- 
mdler,  I  2761+3,  ""Nana  u 
"'A-^  (Kudurru  of  NabuSum 
ilkun).  Cf.  ibid.  I  17  "M-£ 
kardu  mugdairu  and  Nana  is 
iirat  '"Nabu  in  1.  5,  hence  A- 
t.=mar  btti^  Nabu  is  certain 
from  ninth  century.  When  the 
signs  MAL  and  £  are  confused 
the  rendering  must  be  settled 
by   the   context    in    the    late 


period.  In  theological  list, 
CT.  24.  !3,  39  =  25,95. 

Marduk  (i7«).  assists  Aruru  in 
making  man,  22.  In  Creation 
Epic,  23  f.     In  Berossus,  24. 

Martin,  Fr..  18. 

maikim,  76,  11;  77,  31. 

Megalarus,  64. 

Mebijja-el,  52. 

Meissner,  B.,  24. 

Methusbalab,  52. 

Minerva,  30. 

Murray,  Sir  Gilbert,  33. 

Muss-Amolt,  (f .,  70. 

nam,  emphatic  verbal  prefix,  76  n. 
4- 

Nannar  (i/a),  73,  10, 

n^ru  marratu,  Persian  Gulf,  1 1 . 

Naville.  Ed.,  35  n.  1. 

Na^i  (ilai).  52;  84.  35,  47. 

Nebo,  god  in  Dilmun,  8. 

Ninella  (ilat),  70,  11;  71,  31. 

Ninkarrak  (ilat),  patroness  of  heal- 
ing, 48;  49. 

Ninkasi  (ilat).  52;  84,  33,  46. 

Nin-KA-utud  (ilu),  52;  84,  31,  45. 

Nintarsoi  (ilat),  one  of  the  most 
ancient  and  well  known  titles 
of  the  mother  goddess  as  crea- 
tress, 16;  22;  26;  27;  74, 
32;  82,  37,  41,  43;  83,  12,  18, 
23.  In  theological  list  regarded 
among  41  names  as  the  third 
most  important,  CT,  24,  12, 
3=25,  75.  Principal  title  of 
mother  goddess  in  Ke!.  As  a 
married  type  she  is  associated 
with  the  god  Sulsigi,  Zimmern, 
KL.78,Obv.  15,  Rev,  i4;SBP. 
150,  note  5,  line  10.  ^uislg^  is 
a  form  of  Enlil  originally.    Her 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


symbol  on  boundary  stones  is 
the  altar  with  oval  band  and 
occurs  beside  those  of  the  great 
trinity,  Anu,  Enlil,  Ea.  See 
HiNKE,  Boundary  Stones,  p.  6, 
fig.  2,  No.  7,  etc.  Also  Deimel, 
Pantheon  Babylonicum,  Rome, 
1914,  p.  208. 
Nin-kurra  (ilat),  77,  19,  21,  25,  28; 

78,38.  ■ 

Nintil  {ilai),  $2;  84,  39;  8;,  49. 

Ninttid  {ilat),  one  of  principal  titles 
of  mother  goddess  as  patroness 
of  birth.  Creates  man,  16; 
17  n.  2;  17;  18  n.  6.  Liturgy 
to  her,  19  f.  Woman  created 
in  her  image.  Saves  mankind 
in  the  flood,  28;  serpent  deity. 
37.  In  the  Nippur  epic,  73, 
21,  33;  75,  44;  75,  1;  75.  5, 
8;  77,30;  78,40.  The  reading 
is  certainly  Niniud  not  Ninfur  as 
Deimel,  Pantheon  Babyloni- 
cum 221  has  read.  The  second 
sign  is  REC.  147  tttd=ban&  not 
tttT=eTehu,  REC.  144,  145,  56. 
See  Ham.  Code  III  35.  Also 
"nin-iwud,  CT,  24,  12,  13  = 
"nin-iud  24,  25,  82.  Note  also 
her  title  ummu  hanitu,  "beget- 
ting mother,"  where  tud  is 
rendered  by  bdnUu,  Code  XLI V 
40,  and  as  ^Mag  she  is  ummu 
baniii-ia.  VAB.  IV  128.  16;  as 
''Ninmag  she  is  also  ummu 
bantii'ia.  King,  Letters  and 
Inscriptions,  201,  45.  In-^nin- 
tud-ra,  PoEBEL,  Creation  Epic, 
I  3,  ra  is  either  an  emphatic 
particle  or  the  postposition  ra. 
The  forms  ''nin-tud-lud-ri,  CT. 


24,  25.  81  and  ^nin-tud-ri,  p. 
82,  40  and  BL.  ^4,  ;,  probably 
contain  the  word  ri<rib=  du- 
nanu  "form,"  and  the  whole 
should  be  rendered  beltu  bSnit 
dunani,  "Queen,  creatress  of 
forms."  As  a  married  type  she 
is  associated  with  ^Sulslgfe,  CT. 
24,  25,  97,  and  BL.  91,  13, 

Nintulla  (ilat),  ^2;  83,  29,44. 

Nippur,  the  Nippurian  version  of 
the  Fall  of  Man,  38;  45;  49  ff. 
54  f.  Does  not  mention  immor- 
tality, 59. 

Oannes,  14  n.  4. 

Opartes,  65. 

Opperf,  Jules.  25. 

Orelli.  30  n.  2;  31. 

Orphic  literature,  33. 

P  docutnent  in  Hebrew,  agrees  with 
Nippur  version,  55;  61.  No 
sin  before  Flood  period,  60. 
P.'s  genealogical  list,  63  f. 

Pandora,  32. 

Patrons,  sent  to  alleviate  human 
sorrow.  In  Adapa  legend,  49; 
in  Nippur  version,  52;  in 
Hebrew,  52. 

Pinches,  T.  G.,  24  n.  7. 

Poebel,  A.,  13;    15;  27;  65;   74. 

Prometheus,  in  Greek  tradition  fash- 
ions man  from  clay,  29  f. 

Puiur-Enlil,  boatman  in  Babylo- 
nian version  of  the  Flood,  86  f. 

Radau,  H.,  19;  20. 

Rogers,  R.  *f.,  18;  23;  85. 

Sayce,  A.  H.,  5;   12;  64. 

Scheil.  K.,  38;  41. 

Serpent,  Eve  a  serpent  goddess,  36. 
Sumerian  mother  goddess  who 


,,  Google 


creates  man  is  a  serpent  deity, 
37.     Serpent  tempter,  55  f.;   57. 

Ship,  in  the  Flood,  76.  10;  77,  30. 

simanu  =  iufnftianu,  "nose  cord,"  79 
n.  I. 

Sophocles,  32;  32  n.  4;  33. 

5<w/,  creation  of,  31;  34;  35. 

5lrOTi|,  /*.,  39:  47. 

Suruppak,  city,  part  of  Isin,  66  n.  2. 

Tagtug,  hero  of  the  Flood,  78,  39  f.; 
80,  38,  43,  48.  Connection 
with  Noah,  66  ff.  A  gardener, 
14;  ;i.  Eats  the  cassia,  ;i. 
Brings  disease  upon  mankind. 
51;  55.  Receives  divine  title, 
51:    55- 

Temptation,  latent  in  Nippur  ver- 
sion, 55;  58. 

Thureau-Dangiti,  Ft.,    10;    27;    85. 

Toiilaifi.  31  n.  1. 

Tree  of  knowledge,  44;  57.  Its 
origin  in  mythology,  58.  Tree 
of  life,  58  f. 


=x  97 

Tu'iu  (ilu).  66  n.  2. 

Two  creatures,  made  by   Enki,   27; 

by  Ninharsag,  82,  44. 
Ungnad,  A.,  8;. 
Ur-Nimin.  boatman,  85  f. 
Utanapiltim,  translation  of  Zi-ttd- 

(suddu),  15. 
yirolleaud.  Chas.,  9. 
tVeissbach,  Fr.,  22;  23;  27. 
(Vinckler,  Hugo,  9;    10;   38. 
IVisdom,    revealed    to   Adapa,    39; 

to  Adam,  39;  40:44;  50. 
Xisuthrus,    translated    to    blessed 

isle,  15;  66, 
Zarpanit.  goddess  in  Dilmun,  9. 
Zimmern,  H.,  21;   23;   38;   65;  69; 

70. 
Ziudsuddu,  name  of  the  hero  of  the 

Flood   on    PoEBEL    tablet,    15. 

Legend  oi.  p.  90. 


,,  Google 


ABBREVIATIONS 

AJSL.  American  Journal  of  Semitic  Languages  and  Literatures. 

ASKT.  Akkadisclie  und  Sumerische  Keilschrifttexte,  by  Paul  Haupt. 

BA.  Beitrage  zur  Assyriologie,  ed.  Friedrich  Delitzsch  and  Paul 

Haupt. 
Bab.  Babyloniaca.  ed.  Chas.  Virolleaud. 

BE.  Babylonian  Expedition  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  ed. 

H.    V.    HiLPRECHT. 

BL.  Babylonian  Liturgies,  by  S.  Lancdon, 

C.B.S.  Catalogue    of    the     Babylonian    Section    of    the   University 

Museum. 
CT.  Cuneiform  Texts  in  the  British  Museum. 

DP.  Documents  Pr§-sargoniques,  by  Allotte  De  La  Fuve. 

KL.  Altbabylonische  Kultlieder,  by  H.  Zimmern, 

KTA.  Keilschrifttexte  aus  Assur,  by  L.  Messerschmidt. 

OLZ.  Orientalische  Literaturzeitung,  ed.  P.  Peiser. 

PBS.  Publications   of  the    Babylonian    Section  of  the    University 

Museum. 
PSBA.  Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Literature. 

R.  or  Raw.     Cuneiform  Inscriptions  of  Western  Asia,  begun  by  H.  C.  Raw- 

LiNSON,  continued  by  George  Smith,  Norris  and  Pinches. 
RA.  Revue  d'Assyriologie,  ed.  v.  Scheil  et  Fr.  Thureau-Dangin. 

REG.  Recherches  sur   I'Origine  de    I'^criture  Cuneiforme,  by  Fr. 

Thureau-Dangin. 
SAL  Seltene  Assyrische  Ideogramme,  by  B.  Meissner. 

SAK.  Die  Sumerischen  und  Akkadischen  Konigsinschriften,  by  Fr. 

Thureau-Dangin. 
SBH.  Sumerisch-Babyionische  Hymnen,  by  G.  Reisner. 

SBP.  Sumerian  and  Babylonian  Psalms,  by  S.  Langdon. 

Sum.  Gr.       A  Sumerian  Grammar  and  Chrestomathy,  by  the  same. 
VAB.  Vorderasiatische  Bibliothek,  ed.  A,  Jeremias  and  H.  Winck- 

LER. 

ZA.  Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie,  ed.  C.  Bezold. 


,,  Google 


AUTOGRAPH   PLATES 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


SABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  ; 


m 

I 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.    PUB.   UNIV.    MUSEUM    VOL.    X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


PHOTOGRAPHIC  PLATES 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.  MUSEUM.  VOL.  X 


THE  CREATION.  FLOOD  AND  FALL  OF  MAN 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    OF    PENNSYLVANIA 

THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Vol.  X  No.  2 


SUMERIAN  LITURGICAL  TEXTS 

BY 
STEPHEN  LANGDON 


PHILADELPHIA 

PLBLISHED  BY  THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

1917 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION. 103 

SUMERIAN  LITURGICAL  TEXTS: 

Epical  Poem  on  the  Origin  of  Sumerian  Civili- 
zation    Ill 

Lamentation  to  Aruru 115 

Penitential  Psalm  to  God  Amurru 118 

Lamentation  on  the  Invasion  by  Gutium 120 

Legend  of  Gilcamish 124 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Ur-Engur 126 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Dungi 1 36 

Liturgical   Hymn   to   Libit-Ishtar(?)   or    Ishme- 

Dagan(?) 140 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Ishme-Dagan 143 

Lamentation  on  the  Destruction  of  Ur 150 

Hymn  of  Samsuiluna 151 

Liturgy  to  Enlil,  babhar-ri  babbar-ri-gim,  includ- 
ing A  Translation  of  SBH  39 155 

Fragment  from  the  Titular  Litany  of  a  Liturgy  172 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Ishme-Dagan 178 

Liturgy  to  Innini 184 

Epical  Legend  on  the  Musical  Instrument  of 

Enlil 187 

Liturgy  of  the  Tammuz  Wailings 191 

Liturgy  to  Nintud  on  the  Creation  of  Man  and 

Woman 192 

Prayers  and  Incantations  of  Shamash-Shum-ukin  .  193 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


INTRODUCTION 

Under  the  title  Sumerian  Liturgical  Texts  the  author 
has  collected  the  material  of  the  Nippur  collection  which 
belonged  to  the  various  public  song  services  of  the  Sumerian 
and  Babylonian  temples.  In  this  category  he  has  included 
the  epical  and  theological  poems  called  ^ag-sal.  These  long 
epical  compositions  are  the  work  of  a  group  of  scholars  at 
Nippur  who  ambitiously  planned  to  write  a  series  of  poems- 
concerning  cosmological,  ethical  and  religious  problems.  They 
were  read  or  sung  in  the  temples  and  formed  part  of  the 
corpus  of  sacred  literature  in  Sumerian  times,  like  the  liturgies 
and  hymns,  but  unfortunately  these  fine  compositions  com- 
posed in  narrative  and  heroic  style  were  eventually  banished 
from  the  public  readings.  For  such  reason  the  scribes  ceased 
to  propagate  this  the  best  and  most  important  branch  of  all 
their  literature. 

The  poem  published  in  Part  I  of  this  volume  which 
is  the  Epic  of  Paradise,  has  as  its  colophon  \^Nidah\a  lag- 
sal,  "Oh  praise  the  goddess  Nidaba."  which  really  means, 
Oh  praise  the  goddess  of  the  reed,  or  praise  the  art  of  writing, 
an  impulsive  note  added  by  the  scribe  in  admiration  of  the 
fine  poem  which  he  had  just  copied.  The  same  colophon  is 
probably  to  be  restored  at  the  end  of  the  poem  on  the  Flood' 
and  the  epical  legend  published  as  the  first  text  in  this  volume. 
It  occurs  also  as  a  scribal  note  at  the  end  of  a  hymn  to  Dungi.* 

'POBBEL,   PBS.  V  No.    I. 

'  Lang  DON,  Historical  and  Religioui  Texts,  p.   18,     The  same  nole  occurs  al  the  end  of 
Ni.  4;8S,  a  hymn  to  Innini. 


,,  Google 


104  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

This  fanciful  use  of  ^ag-sal,  of  course,  has  per  se  no  reference  to 
the  contents  of  the  text  nor  to  the  purpose  for  which  it  was 
written,  but  evidence  can  be  produced  for  the  statement  that 
this  note  when  attached  to  poems  and  hymns  really  designates 
the  text  as  liturgical,  that  is  as  part  of  the  public  song  services. 
For  lag-sal  or  "praise"  occurs  frequently  in  its  proper  sense. 
For  example  a  legendary  poem  to  Enki  the  water-god  in  the 
Nippur  collection  in  Constantinople  ends  with  the  note  a-a 
''En-ki  ^ag-sal,  "Oh  sing  in  praise  of  father  Enki."'  The  word 
lag  designates  some  kind  of  an  instrument  perhaps  and  sal 
is  a  verb  meaning  to  sing  in  joyful  strain.^  In  any  case  lag-sal 
designates,  in  its  proper  usage,  a  poem  of  joyful  character  in 
distinction  from  such  liturgical  notes  as  ersemma  and  kisuh 
which  characterize  a  melody  as  sorrowful  and  attended  by 
spiritual  humiliation.  Hence  at  the  end  of  a  long  double  column 
hymn  concerning  the  earth-god  the  scribe  adds  the  line  a-a 
''En-lil  {ag-sal,^  "Oh  sing  in  praise  of  Enlil."  Two  hymns  in 
heroic  measure  sung  to  the  mother  goddess  Innini  end  with  the 
rubric,  lag-sal-ju  dug-ga-dm,  "It  is  good  to  sing  thy  praise."^ 
And  a  long  epical  composition  to  Nidaba  ends  with  the  line, 
^ag-sal-mu  dug-ga-dm,  "It  is  good  to  sing  my  praise."^  In 
similar  manner  a  double  column  tablet  ends  ama  ''Nina  ^ag-sal- 
?M  dug-ga-dm,  "Oh  mother  Nina  it  is  good  to  sing  thy  praise."* 
Although  the  rubric  ''Nidaba  ^agsal  is  employed  in  the  fanciful 
sense  "Oh  praise  her  of  the  stylus,"  nevertheless  the  line 
obviously  purports  to  classify  the  composition  as  an  epic  and 

'  Langdon,  Hiitoricat  and   Religious   Texts,   p.   45.     The  same  rubric  at   the  end  of  Ni. 
14059,  also  a  hymn  lo  Enki. 

'  See  ji((j)  in  Sumtrian  Grammar  340. 

'  Ni,  9305  (unpublished). 

'  Ni.  1406;  and  11859  (unpublished). 

'  Ni.  7071  (unpublished). 

•  Radau,  Misceliantaus  5|n»wrra«  Texts.  No.  ii. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  IO5 

liturgical.'  When  the  cults  no  longer  provided  opportunity  for 
the  bards  and  philosophers  to  sing  their  epics  in  the  hearing  of 
the  congregations,  or  to  cause  them  to  be  sung  by  the  temple 
choirs,  they  appear  to  have  lost  their  incentive  and  their  inspira- 
tion. For  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  writing  to  be  read  figured 
slightly  in  the  imagination  of  authors  who  wrote  painfully  upon 
clay.  Their  only  means  of  reaching  the  ears  of  a  wider  public, 
and  these  fine  epics  had  that  end  in  view,  was  to  induce  the 
temple  choristers  to  incorporate  their  compositions  in  the 
corpus  of  public  worship.  Naturally  these  heroic  measures 
and  these  ethical  problems,  so  shrewdly  propounded  and 
answered  in  the  recital  of  ancient  legends,  gave  little  scope  for 
the  varied  melodies  characteristic  of  the  mournful  liturgies. 
They  appealed  only  to  the  thoughtful.  When  this  class  of 
literature  disappeared  with  the  scribes  and  schoolmen  of  the 
Isin  period  Sumero-Babylonian  religion  and  universal  literature 
suffered  an  unknown  loss.  Of  this  epical  and  theological  class 
of  literature  part  two  of  my  volume  contains  only  one  text  which 
introduces  the  book. 

Several  texts  belonging  to  the  well-known  liturgical  type  of 
daily  prayer,  such  as  survived  almost  exclusively  and  in  great 
numbers  into  the  Semitic  cults  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  will 
be  found  here.  So  far  as  they  add  new  material  for  knowledge 
of  the  corpus  of  liturgical  literature  and  fill  up  gaps  in  hitherto 
imperfectly    known    prayer    books,    these    will    be    welcomed, 

'  The  rubric  is  employed  properly  after  a  hymr  lo  Nidaba  in  Zimmern,  Kultlitder.  No.  107. 
The  term  came  to  be  misused  in  the  temple  schools  and  hence  we  find  it  at  the  end  of  tablets 
which  contain  lists  of  names  and  other  prosaic  material.  Thus  Ni.  1 5889,  a  laige  tablet  devoted 
to  the  names  of  the  gods,  ends  Nidaba  fagsal.  Here,  of  course,  the  note  cannot  have  a  liturgical 
reference  but  is  an  impulse  of  the  scribe  who  wishes  lo  praise  the  excellence  of  (he  written  tablet. 
Dr.  Chiera  in  PBS.  X  I.  p.  ig.  has  noted  several  examples  of  this  use  of  the  term  at  the  end  of 
school  texts.  Note  also  the  rubric  placed  above  the  long  liturgical  hymn  to  Bur-Sin  and  Gimil- 
Sinin  Radau,  BE.  29  No.  i  [iniiii-]la  ^Nidaba  (so  Radau  restores). 


,,  Google 


lOO  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

I  trust,  by  scholars  and  general  readers.  The  consecutive 
pubh'cation  of  these  liturgical  texts  will  contain  more  tablets 
of  this  type. 

The  most  important  group  of  texts  in  this  volume  (Nos.  6, 
7,  8,  9  and  14  of  the  contents)  represent  a  great  religious  move- 
ment, always  latent  in  Sumerian  religion  but  especially  char- 
acteristic of  the  scholastic  period  in  which  the  Sumerian  people 
became  extinct.  Beginning  with  the  early  years  of  Dungi, 
second  king  of  the  dynasty  of  Ur,  the  doctrine  of  the  deification 
of  kings  holds  perhaps  the  foremost  place  in  Sumerian  theology 
and  certainly  the  practice  of  this  belief  occupies  the  chief  posi- 
tion in  their  liturgy.  The  doctrine  of  a  divine  right  to  rule  was 
proclaimed  by  the  early  city  kings  of  Sumer  at  the  dawn  of 
history  when  they  assumed  the  religious  title  palest,  priest-king, 
either  to  the  exclusion  of  or  in  conjunction  with  the  secular 
title  lugal,  king.  During  the  long  ages  preceding  the  rise  of 
the  Ur  dynasty  in  the  twenty-fifth  century  the  Sumerian  people 
generally  accepted  this  ancient  dogma.  It  may  have  been  due 
to  an  aristocratic  priesthood,  but  it  was  a  belief  which  gave 
them  peace  and  confidence  because  they  believed  themselves 
ruled  by  the  vicars  of  god.  And  this  faith  in  the  divine  origin, 
mission  and  rights  of  kings  resulted  at  last  not  alone  in  the 
deification  of  mortal  rulers  and  the  institution  of  cults  for 
their  worship,  but  in  a  widely  spread  Messianic  hope.  Another 
more  powerful  doctrine  current  in  that  philosophic  age  aroused 
a  longing  and  prepared  the  way  for  their  implicit  belief  in  the 
kings  as  Messiahs  who  had  at  last  arrived  to  restore  on  earth 
the  prediluvian  paradise.  The  well-preserved  epic  published 
in  Part  l,as  well  as  the  small  fragment  concerning  Ziudsuddu, 
lone  survivor  of  the  Flood,  show  a  well-known  legend  concern- 
ing a  lost  paradise  where  men  toiled  not  and  disease  was  not. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  IO7 

Such  doctrines  naturally  gave  rise  to  an  irrepressible  hope  that 
the  gods  would  one  time  restore  the  lost  prediluvian  paradise. 
The  hymns  sung  to  the  deified  kings  of  Ur  and  Isin,  who  ruled 
from  2475  to  2133  B.  C,  reveal  clearly  enough  the  state  of 
mind  which  existed  in  that  age.  Beginning  with  Dungi  of 
Ur,'  whose  extremely  long  reign  probably  increased  their  faith 
in  him  as  an  immortal,  the  Sumerian  people  really  beHeved 
that  the  divine  deliverers  had  come,  begotten  by  the  gods, 
made  mortal  that  they  might  rule  over  men,  and  wedded  to 
the  great  mother  goddess  herself.^  Even  the  catastrophe  which 
befell  the  divine  Ibi-Sin  last  king  of  Ur,  whose  city  was  pillaged 
by  the  Elamites  and  who  himself  took  the  way  to  Susa  as  a 
captive,  failed  to  cool  the  ardor  of  their  belief.  In  the  kings 
of  Isin  who  succeeded  them  they  placed  the  same  confidence. 

In  the  hymn  sung  in  the  cult  of  Ishme-Dagan  and  trans- 
lated on  pages^  '43-9  of  this  volume  the  reader  will  find  some- 
what modest  claims  compared  with  other  hymns  of  this  class. 
"He  whom  Innini,  queen  of  heaven  and  earth,  as  her  beloved 
spouse  has  chosen,  1  am,"  says  our  hymn.  More  explicit  in 
regard  to  the  belief  in  his  Messianic  nature  is  the  other  hymn 
of  his  cult  published  here: 

"The  maiden,  mother  Bau,  has  looked  with  faithful  eyes 
upon  thee,  and  good  things  decreed  in  order  that  life  of  days 
may  go  forth  forever."' 

This  hymn  claims  for  him  a  "crown  that  prolongeth  the 
breath  of  life;"  for  him  the  rivers  brought  abundance  and  the 
cellars  overflowed  with  honey;  the  fields  bore  grain  in  abundance 
and  the  sheepfolds  were  made  more  spacious. 

'  For  hymns  and  lilurgies  lo  Dungi  see  also  Ihe  writer's  Hiilaricat  and  Religious  Texts, 
'See  on  the  id  en  1  location  of  these  divine  kings  with  Tammuz  the  author's  Tammui  and 
Isblar.  pp.  36  r. 

'Ni.  7184  Obv,  JO, 


y  Google 


lOO  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

The  extreme  length  to  which  this  worship  of  mortal  rulers 
was  carried,  the  Messianic  position  which  they  occupied  in  the 
official  cult,  characterize  the  Ur  and  Isin  period  as  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  and  interesting  in  the  history  of  religion. 
That  it  had  a  philosophic  and  legendary  background  supported 
by  the  ancient  doctrine  of  the  divine  origin  of  kings,  the  Epic 
of  Paradise  and  the  Sumerian  historical  inscriptions  abundantly 
prove.  Some  of  these  deified  men  in  a  way  justified  the  faith 
which  they  inspired,  but  they  all  failed  to  banish  toil  and  dis- 
ease, or  even  to  protect  their  people  from  the  violence  of  foes. 
Nevertheless  all  the  kings  of  Isin  were  deified  even  to  the  last 
unfortunate  Damik-ili-§u  and  we  have  liturgies  to  the  first,' 
third,^  fourth,'  fifth,*  sixth*  and  eleventh.^  For  the  last  five 
kings  of  Isin  no  cult  hymns  have  been  found,  but  their  names 
have  the  divine  title. 

The  Semitic  people,  who  after  centuries  of  conflict,  peace- 
ful and  violent,  at  last  supplanted  the  Sumerian  race,  abolished 
the  entire  institution  of  king  worship  and  with  it  the  belief  in  the 
Messianic  age.  The  facts  belied  their  claims  and  their  fate 
took  from  them  the  last  vestige  of  divine  authority.  Instead  of 
enthusiastic  chants  and  hymns  which  proclaimed  the  advent  of 
god-sent  rulers  and  the  golden  age,  we  now  see  the  rise  of  the 
famous  poem  of  pessimism,  the  Epic  of  Gilgamish.  Although 
a  few  tablets  have  been  found  which  indicate  the  existence  of 

'  Ishbi-Girra;  see  Sum.  fir„  p.  i6, 

'  Idin-Dagani  see  ibid. 

'  Ishire-D.igan,      Iwo  liturgits  in  this  voiurr.e  and  one  in  Zimmekn,  KL.  joo, 

*  t.ibit-lshtar.    Liturgy  lo,  in  Zihmern,  KL.  r^g. 

'  Libit-lshtar.     Liturgy  to,  in  Ni.  1)979. 

'  Hnlil-bani.  Hymn  to,  in  Lancdon,  Hisloncat  and  Kiligious  Texts  No.  18.  I  he  contem- 
poraneous kings  of  Larsa  were  also  deified,  but  since  Ihey  did  not  rule  at  Nippur  until  the  period 
of  Warad-Sin  we  cannot  expect  10  find  many  hyn'ns  and  liturgies  of  their  cults  at  Nppur.  For 
Sin-idinnam  third  king  at  Larsa,  mentioned  in  the  hymn  to  Enlii-bani,  our  collection  possesses 
one  lilurgj',  Ni.  7072. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LtTURGICAL  TEXTS  IO9 

a  Sumerian  epic  concerning  Gilgamish,'  nevertheless  it  is  most 
improbable  that  it  contains  the  elements  (other  than  legendary) 
of  the  Semitic  masterpiece.  The  Epic  of  Gilgamish  is  obviously 
due  to  the  wave  of  pessimism  which  followed  upon  the  failure 
of  the  Messianic  kingdom  and  the  cults  of  the  deified  kings. 
Here  mankind  is  taught,  in  the  long  tale  about  an  ancient 
godhke  hero,  that  the  pain  of  life  and  the  fate  of  death  are 
unavoidable  and  ordained  by  the  gods.  Its  doctrine  is  the 
antithesis  of  the  hope  expressed  in  these  hymns  and  liturgies 
which,  we  now  know,  were  the  favorite  songs  in  public  worship 
from  the  twenty-fifth  to  the  twenty-second  centuries. 

The  major  theological  and  ethical  movements  which  stand 
out  so  clearly  in  that  critical  age  of  human  history  are  only 
outlined  here.  The  object  of  this  volume  is  to  supply  material 
for  investigating  in  detail  the  great  movements  of  that  period 
which  so  directly  affected  the  progress  of  all  dogma,  belief  and 
practice.  The  collection  possesses  a  large  number  of  similar 
texts  which  will  be  an  important  addition  to  the  material  now 
published. 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


SUMERIAN  LITURGICAL  TEXTS 

4562 

An  Epical  Poem  on  the  Origin  of  Sumerian  Civilization 

No.  4562  is  a  fragment  of  a  legendary  poem  similar  to  the 
legendary  poems  of  the  Flood  translated  by  Poebel  (10673)  2nd 
that  of  Paradise  translated  by  myself  (456!)-  All  three  tablets 
are  apparently  from  the  same  hand  and  are  written  in  three 
columns  on  each  side.  They  belong  to  a  series  of  poems  treat- 
ing in  epical  style  of  the  legends  of  prehistoric  times.  The 
fragment  4562  is  the  upper  right  corner  of  a  tablet  and  con- 
tains only  a  small  portion  of  the  text.  Unfortunately  the 
reverse  is  almost  illegible. 

As  in  the  epics  of  the  Flood  and  of  Paradise,  so  in  the 
poem  to  which  I  now  call  attention  the  god  Enki  of  Eridu 
appears  as  the  chief  divine  figure  in  the  beginnings  of  civiliza- 
tion. He  declares  the  fate  by  which  Sumer  became  the  divinely 
chosen  land  of  the  universe  (Obv.  Ill  10).  This  decree  follows 
immediately  upon  a  few  obscure  lines  which  refer  apparently  to 
the  Flood  and  a  ship.  The  fragmentary  lines  at  the  top  of 
Obv.  11  mention  Magan  and  Dilmun,  but  the  references  are 
extremely  obscure.  If  the  Flood  is  referred  to  at  the  'op  of 
Obv.  Ill,  then  Col.  II  must  refer  to  prediluvian  times.  In  any 
case,  the  well  preserved  passage  in  Obv.  Ill  tells  of  the  glorious 
destiny  decreed  for  Sumer  by  the  wise  god  of  Eridu.  In  much 
the  same  way,  Enki  restores  civilization  after  the  Flood  in  the 
Epic  of  Paradise.  On  the  reverse  {I  16)  we  find  the  Anunnaki 
who  also  figure  in  the  legend  of  the  Fall  of  Man  in  the  Paradise 
Epic.     It  is  extremely  regrettable  that  so  little  definite  informa- 

(m) 


y  Google 


112  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

tion  can  be  gleaned  from  the  reverse.  In  any  case,  we  have 
here  another  legend  concerning  the  origin  of  civilization  and 
religion  in  Sumer,  but  its  contents  and  relation  to  the  other 
two  epics  must  remain  undefined  until  the  tablet  by  good 
chance  is  restored. 

Obverse  11 


.  ?-sig-sig-ga-bi       H-ga-dttt' 


dug^ 


md'gan-{ki)  dilmun-{ki)' 

hi 

3 en      igi-^e'tm-da-a-dug 

4-  Dilmun(ki)na  giU^e-en-du* 

5.  [Mi]-gan'{ki)-na    an-iag    ie-en- 

lal 

6 gi-lum  me-lug-^a'{ki)-a-    ge 

7 UD        bal-lu  ie-mg-^ 

8 kur'kur-ra-ranippur-(ki)-hi 

^e-na-ab-tum 

9 i-nu-tui-        ra 

10 

II.  [i-gal kalam-ma-\na   i-    a-      ra 

12 ne  sal  fid  mu-un-ne-di* 

13 me-el-lu        it-    a 


I its  brilliant let 

him  behold. 
2.  Magan  and Dilmun 

3 may  be  looked  upon. 

4.  May  Dilmun 

5.  May  Magan  the  limits  of  heaven 

reach. 

6.  The of  Meluhha 

7 

8.  [The  tribute?]   of  the  foreign 

lands  unto  Nippur  may  he 
bring. 

9.  Unto who  has  no  house 

10 

II,  For  him  [who  from  the  palace  of 

his  landl  had  gone  forth, 
12 he  established  faith- 
fully for  them. 
13.  The who  «:ic(i/(j  the  pure 


■The  compound  verb  &-<lug  =  iSt».  hartt,  behold,  forms  iis  imperative  second  singular 
in  the  unusual  manner  fi-^ii-e-Jil|  =  JI(,  SBP.  138,37,  (or  which  we  have  the  variant  ii-gi-e-dl, 
in  IV  R.  38*  No.  4(5.  Obviously  the  vowel  i  indicates  the  second  person  here  and  ga  has  the 
force  of  the  imperative  although  ordinarily  the  optative  of  the  Tirst  person.  Still  another  variant 
hi-di-diigfor  H-ga-e-diig.SBP.  igi,  1  tT.,  andfor;>isee  $50.  Note  the  verbd-ifK|-ji.  a  participle 
conjugated  with  the  verb  mt  to  be,  H-dug-gi-im-m,  "I  am  beholding,"  Radau,  Misctl.  3,  16  — 
Sum.  Or.  197. 

'jfl-ifu  occurs  regularly  for  the  act  of  slaying  animals  for  sacrifice:  in  the  temple  gil-bi- 
da  "he  sacrificed,"  RA  9,  111  11  11;  gukkal  gH-di,  unweaned  kid  for  sacrifice.  Lancoon, 
Drebtm  2 1 ;  Lecrain  79.  10;  mdl-gil-dH,  kid  for  sacrifice;  gud  gii-du,  ox  for  sacrifice,  passim 
in  Orehem  texts. 

•  Cf.  bal-U  mt^.  CT.  1 5,  10  Rev,  9. 

*  Possibly  a  tapiui  calami  (or  KA,  d6(. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


'3 


[4 iir-    gulh    ba 

[5 fag-    du-    a 

16 kal-la-d^    me-tna^    tu-ti-a 


.i- 


19 ne 

20 erida-ra-  t 

2  r ki-en-gi-ra-ge- 

22 mu-na-ab-bi- 

23 im-mi~ib-du?-ne 


'7- 


....  treads. 

is  glorified. 

possesses   the  far  famed 

decrees. 
lord  of  heaven  and  earth 


18.  The.  .who  went  forth 

19.  The 

20.  The.  .of  Eridu. . . 

21.  The  [inhabitanii]  of  Sumer 
22 said  to  him. 

23 


Col.   Ill 


-md.. 

en-ra  "^m&-lu .  . 


Higir-stg^  PA.., 

en-ra  mudur  a^ag  tu. . 


la-^a-mt^  engur-ra    le-bi . 


ka-ra-e-ne  ^en-gam  muten  an-na 


lugal  ii-na-gtib*  a-a  ''en-ki  kalam- 

»"-( 1 

i-gal  kalam-ma-na  i-a-[ra\ . . 


2.  For  the  high-priest  upon  a  ship 


3.  Ligirsig 

4.  To  the  high-priest  a  splendid 

scepter 

$.  Lahama  in  the  abyss  a  flood 


6.  Their  wail  woejullyi?)  like  the 

birds  of  heaven 

7.  The    king,    who   stands   aloft, 

father  Enki.  the  Land  [ ] 

8.  For  him  who  from  the  palace  of 

his  Land  had  gone  forth. 


'  The  scribe  has  obviously  writlen  his  text  erroneously. 

*  A  reading  miV-ii'(;)  is  possible,  In  which  case  ding"  "tirsi  may  perhaps  mean  "god  of  the 
flood;"  for  tirsi,  flood,  see  Lilurgies,  p.  96. 

'U-ia-viii  =  Laiaimi.  of  the  Creation  Epic.  Identical  with  La^amn,  CT.  14,  1,  15;  10,  9, 
female  principle  of  La^mu:  here  Laljmu  and  Lab^ma  are  father-mother  names  of  Anu,  or 
emanations  of  the  first  principle  Heaven.  As  emanations  of  Heaven  they  probably  represent 
the  ocean  and  belong  to  Ihe  order  of  ihe  gods.  In  CT.  17,  41.  14-14  Latlitiu  is  described  as  a 
Ma-serpent  and  identified  with  Ea;  cf.  Rm.  279,  i~ii.  The  paragraph  35-40  probably 
describes  Labamu  or  Damkina;  she  has  the  body  of  a  fish  and  scales  hke  a  Iserpent?].  La|)mu 
and  Labamu  are  the  first  emanations  who  are  called  gods,  Great.  I  10.  They  are  the  fathers 
of  the  gods  III  68  and  counsel  them  against  Tiamat  Nl  11;.  On  the  other  hand,  the  female 
Labamu  belongs  to  the  dragons  of  chaos,  I  111;  11  37;  Nl  3r.  8g,  In  our  passage  Labama 
clearly  represents  the  ocean. 

'Cf.  Liturgiis  115,  i. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


Obverse  III 


9.  ^e-gdl  an-ki-a  pa-i  mu-na-ab-ag 

10.  *en-ki-gt  nam-im-mi-ib-lar-ri 

1 1 .  ki-en-gi  kur-gal  ma-da  an-ki 

12.  ^e-ir-ji-gitr-ru  babbar-i-la  babbar- 

iu-u^  kalam-e  me  sum-mu 

13.  me-iu  ttu-ma^     iu-nu-iu-tu 

14.  f^g-fM  galam  gen*    gain  nu-pad- 

dS 

15.  umun-iid  kt-an  u-tud-^a  an-gim 

iu-nu'te-gi 


16.  lugal  ii-tttd  mui-jid  kei-di 

17.  en  ii'iud    sag  men  ma-md 

18.  en-iu  en  tdim*  dingir  lugal  da 

bara-an-na-ka  t-im-durun 

19.  lugal-pt     kur-gal    a-a     ^en-lU 

20.  git-st^-gim  dug-dug-gi  ia-mu- 

ra-an-gibiib)  a-a  kur-kur-ra-ge 

21.  ''a-nun^na    dingir-gaUgal-e-ne 

22.  iag-^a  ki-uT-ra   iu-ba-ni-in-ti-ei 

23.  gi-gun-na  gal-gal-^a  u-mi-ni-ib- 

s&-s&-ne 


.  Surpassing  abundance  in  heaven 
and  earth  he  made. 

.  Enki  issued  a  decree. 

.  "Sumer,'  the  great  mountain, 
land  of  Heaven  and  Earth, 

.  Bearing  a  sheen  of  splendor, 
from  sunrise  to  sunset  teach- 
ing the  Land  decrees, 

.  Far  famed  are  thy  decrees  and 
unchangeable, 

.  Thy  heart  is  profound;  man  has 
not  discovered  it. 

.  As  a  true  form  (designed  by) 
earth  and  heaven  thou  wast 
created,  like  heaven  intan- 
gible. 

.  Offspring  of  a  king,  clad  upon 
by  a  true  form. 

.  Offspringofan  high-priest  whose 
head  is  crowned. 

.  Thy  high-priest  is  the  lord  of  the 
deep,  the  divine  king  who 
within  the  sanctuary  of  heaven 
dwells. 

.  Thy  king  is  the  great  mountain 
father  Enlil. 

.  Like  a  wall  he  turns  back  for 
thee  the  wicked  ones{?),  father 
of  all  lands. 

.  The  Anunnakki,  the  great  gods, 

.  Within  thee  Kenurra'  inhabited. 

.  In  thy  great  dark  chambers  they 
feed. 


'  Sumer  is  here  employed  in  ils  original  signification,  as  a  name  for  the  district  about  Nippur, 
X  Sum.  Cr.  Si. 
'Cf.  Rev.  18. 
■  idim,  abyss,  well,  the  deep,  is  employed  in  the  title  of  E^  dingir  idin,  "god  of  the  deep." 

*t>i-'lg=giU\f.  =  iui>  i-ti  =  igaru:   cf.  ZA.  14,  J87;    K.  4558  II  r4:    II  R.  i;a  u,  etc. 
'  Chapel  of  Ninlil  in  Ekur  temple  of  Enlil. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


115 


24.  i  ki'tn-gin  fur-;M  ie'dii-du  dh-^u         24.  The   house(s)    of   Sumer,    thy 

ie4u4u  stable(s)  let  be  built,  and  may 

thy  cattle  be  many. 

25.  amai-^u    ie-gar-gar    udu-^-ie-         25.  May  thy  sheepfold(s)  be  built 

Wr-Wr  and  thy  sheep  be  fat. 

45 
Nearly  Complete  Lamentation  to  Aruru 


I tn^H    ?-eljAR-a' 

2 SAL+KU'-gal  ^mu-nl- 

lil-ld 

5 i-mai  i-a-na-ka 

4.  ''a-ru-ru[6T-]^af  i-mai  i-a-na-ka 

5 gu  i-bi-^a    i-mai-a-mi-H 

6.  [ii-\ma-du-dii~bi      H-ma-ni  mai 

ttie-en 

7.  u-ma  mu-lu-mu     bar-ta  KU-a- 

min 

8.  U-ma  mu-lu  i-a-mu  bar-ta  KU-a- 

min 

9.  en-e*  ka-na-dg-gd-ka  bar-ta  KU- 

a-min 

10,  i-ki-nam-ma-ka      bar-la   KU-a- 

min 

11.  i-gal kei-ikiH-ka  bar-ta  KU-a- 

ttiin 

ra.  nin-min   ud-nu-!iu   Hi   ''nannar* 

nu-^u  men 


I thou  art;   

2 great  sister  of  Enlil. 

3 of  Emah*  her  temple. 

4,  Aruru  procreaiive  xvomb  of  Emah, 

her  temple. 
5 in  that  temple,  in  her 

Emah 

6.  Which  attains  unto  her  glory, 

her  glory  was  far-famed, 

7.  The  glory  of  my  lord  abides  far 

away. 

8.  The  glory  of  the  lord  of  my 

temple  abides  far  away. 

9.  The  lord  of  the  Land  abides  far 

away. 

10.  From   the   "Temple  of  Fate" 

she{?)  abides  afar. 

1 1.  From  the  Hekal  of  Kesh  she(?) 

abides  afar. 

12.  A  queen  thou  art.     The  day 

thou  knowest  not,  the  new 
moon  thou  knowest  not. 


'  This  text  does  not  distinguish  between  the  sign  NIN=btllu  and  SAL-\-KU=a})abi.  For 
Aruru  sister  of  Enlil  see  pari  1,  Index. 

'Email  appears  to  have  been  applied  to  temples  of  Anini  in  Nippur,  Larsa,  and  Babylon. 
For  Emab  at  Nippur  and  Larsa,  see  SBP.  60  n.  3,  and  at  Babylon,  VAB.  IV  p.  303  where  she 
has  the  title  Ninitiah  as  in  CT.  14,  [i,  3>^25,  7;.  In  Kei  where  she  was  chiefly  worshipped  her 
temple  is  called  Ur-labba,  see  BL,  147.  This  leads  to  the  inference  that  our  hymn  applies  to 
Aruru  of  Nippur  where  she  seems  to  have  been  confused  with  Ninlil. 

•Conjectured  restoration  from  the  name  of  Arum's  temple  in  Kei.  Cf.  Nintud  Sr-ra, 
BL.  71,  tj. 

'  «)i4  probably  refers  to  Enlil  here:  cf.  En\i\  i-iu  dg~p-da-gt.  "lord  of  justice,"  Zim.  KL.  9,4. 

'  Cf.  ZiMMERN,   KL.  6s,  14ff. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


SAL+KU  "mu-ul-lil-ld  min  ha- 

ni-in-kui-u  ba-nad 

nin-min  St-ldl'  S  dg-nam-ma-an- 

iu 

^a~ru-ru  i-a-^ta  gu-bt-na-ma-an- 

si 

dam-a-ni-gint  nd-a  ba-ni-in-dur- 

ru-ne-el-dm 

iu-nm-ni-gim  nd-a  ba-ni-in-dUr- 

ru-ne-el-dm 

a-ru-ru   an    mu-na-du    nu-mu- 

ni-in-tiif-e 

en-lil    mu-na-du    nu-mu-m-in- 

iiig-e 

nin-Ul  mu-na-du  nu-mu-ni-tn- 

tikg-e 

en-ki    mu-na-du    nu-mu-ni-in- 

iug-e 

nin-mai    mu-na-du    nu-mwni- 

in-ikg-e 

''nannar  mu-na-du  nu-mu-ni-in- 

tUg-e 

babbar  mu-na-du  nu-mu-ni-in- 

t&i-e 

e-ne-ra^    a-nu-na  mu-un-na-ldg- 

l^g-gi-ei 

an-a  an  a-ri-a  mu-un-na-l^g-ldg- 

gi-ei 

ki-a    an    a-ri-a    mu-un-na-ldg- 

Ug-gi-el 


13.  The  sister  of  Enlil  she  is;    she 

languishes,  she  sleeps. 

14.  A  queen  she  is.    The  house  LAL 

of  the  temple  she  inhabits  not. 

1 5.  Aruru  her  temple  has  renounced. 

16.  Like  her  whose  husband  slum- 

bers  they  sit. 
\-j.  Like  her  whose  child  sleeps  they 
sit.' 

18.  To  Aruru  Anu  went,  but  pacified 

her  not. 

19.  Enlil  went  but  pacified  her  not. 

30.  Ninlil  went  but  pacified  her  not. 

21.  Enki  went  but  pacified  her  not. 

22.  Ninmah'  went  but  pacified  her 

not. 

23.  Nannar  went  but  pacified  her 

not. 

24.  Babbar  went  but  pacified  her 

not. 

25.  Unto  her  the  Anunnaki   has- 

tened. 

26.  They    whom    Anu    in    heaven 

begat'  hastened. 

27.  They  whom  Anu  in  earth  begat' 

hastened. 


'  Cf.  Il4il  kuT-ri-gil  mu-na-tib-ittb.  "The  ei-iii  which  is  in  a  strange  land  he  occupies," 
Citpl.  ajyS,  16  in  Historical  and  Religious  Ttxls  No,  jj,  Cf.  also  lil-t  ki-ajag-ga  mjin-mi-iH- 
durun,  "The  W,  a  holy  place  she  inhabits,"  Radau,  Miscel.  8.  16.  This  sign  has  also  the  value 
ru,  ri,{KiNO,CT,  14  pages  11  f.)  hence  we  may  have  here  some  new  value  for  LAL  a  "sanctuaiy." 
Confusion  with  EDIN  is  hardly  lo  be  assumed  in  this  period. 

'  Lines  16  f.  probably  tefer  to  the  weeping  of  Innrni  for  Tammuz. 

'  See  Sam.  Gr.  148  n.  3, 

<  This  title  applies  here  to  Damkina.     It  designates  also  Aruru  and  Gula. 

'■a.fiu-ra'anamu,  BL.  laa,  18. 

'The  Igigi. 

'The  Anunnaki, 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 
um-ma    sir-sag-e^    sir-mu-na-ra^  28. 

(, . .]  ii-ab — gt-gi-mu  sir-mu-na-  29. 


The    artist    the    first    melody 
chants. 

My he  sings. 


.ma    mu-lu    gU-de    gu-de-ju 

nam-mu 

. .  .mtt-lu  ad-di  ad-di'ju*  nam- 


30. 


mu-lu  er-ri^  er-^uU^u~nam- 

mu 
uiumga^  mu-lu   U-DU  U-DU- 
fu  nam-mu 
''a-ru-TU  gu-ju  mu-lu  kHr-ra  im- 
me' 
'a-TU-TU  er-ju  mu-lu  kur-ra  im- 
me 
NU-NUNUZ-€    le-DU-iu    mu- 
lu  kHr-ra  im-me 
a-ru-ru  an-ii-ga  nigin-e-bi-en 

a-TU-TU  i-lur  amal-a-ge  nigin-e- 
bi-en 
tu-mu  i-dub-a-ge^  hlE-im-du^ 

ma-e-gtn"  ab-al{?)-gim  gu-gig  nu' 
ga-g^ 
[ma-e?]-gim  gil-li-em-mi  ah.  . . . 
i-ib-gul-e'' 


. . .  .the    man    of    lamentation 

laments  to  thee.° 
....  the  man  of  wailing  wails 

to  thee. 
the  man  of  weeping  is  thy 

sorrowful  weeper. 
The  great  u^um,  the  man  of 

threnody  is  thy  threnodist. 
Oh,  Arum,  thy  songs  a  stranger 

utters. 
Oh.Aruru,  thy  liturgy  a  stranger 

utters. 
Oh,  woman,    thy    threnody    a 

stranger  utters.* 
Oh,  Aruru,   the   seized    away, 

return. 
Oh,  Aruru,  to  the  stalls  and  the 

sheepfolds  return. 
The   inmate  of  the   house  of 

letters  implores. 
As  for  me  like  a. . .  .cow  words 

of  misery  I  restrain  not. 
I   like  a that  has  fallen 

on  calamity  weeping  withhold 

not. 


lu;  and  hbtar  115  n 


'Ct.  SBP.  96.  10;   }j2,  9  and  Rad*u,  Miscel.  17,  ij 

'Q-  IV  R.  Mb  jo;  CT.  15,8  Rev.  9;    14.11-). 

•  Uterally,  "is  thy  lamenler." 

'  See  note  on  Dublin  Text  I.  a. 

'Cf,  BL.  Introduction  XXIII. 

'  For  this  term  applied  both  io  a  lyre  and  a  musician,  see  \ 

'  For  t'^-me,  see  IV  R.  3-ja  J3  and  for  im-me "Utahhi.  RA.  1 1,  144,  4. 

'  Lines  34-6  probably  refer  Io  the  conduct  of  the  liturgies  in  the  temples. 

»Cf.  BA.  VI  5,  61,  damn  i-duh-ba-^diip-iar. 

'"This  verb  probably  means  "to  pray,  implore,"     Cf.  lag-NE-du-^unninu  and  Htslorical 

and  Rtligious   Tints  55,   1,  sel-a-ni  «r-seg  ''gibilgamii   NE-du.  "His  brother,  the  heroic 

Cilgamish, ,  . .   implores." 

"  Probably  emphatic  particle  gi-in,  or  gi-im.     Cf.  RA.  12, 

"Cf.  SBH.66,  15. 


y  Google 


Il8  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

35 

Penitential  Psalm  to  the  God  Amurru 
This  tablet,  unfortunately  broken  in  such  manner  that 
only  the  introductory  and  concluding  lines  are  preserved, 
yields  us  the  first  ancient  example  of  a  private  penitential 
psalm  in  pure  Sumerian.  Several  interlinear  compositions 
of  this  kind  are  known  which  of  course  led  us  to  suppose  that 
this  class  of  religious  literature  originated  in  Sumer,  but 
hitherto  the  total  absence  of  material  of  this  kind  in  early 
Sumerian  supported  the  contention  that  perhaps  the  psalms 
of  private  penance  were  a  Semitic  creation.  In  the  inter- 
linear redactions  of  the  Hbrary  of  ASurbanipal  these  composi- 
tions have  the  title  er-Sag-tug-mal,  see  for  example  IV  R.  lo; 
2 1  *  No.  2 ;  B L.  1 24- 1 50.  A  penitential  psalm  in  pure 
Sumerian  redacted  in  the  Assyrian  period  is  K.  4795  in  Gray, 
Shamash,  but  the  reverse  continues  with  a  psalm  in  Semitic, 
Closely  allied  to  the  eriagiugmal  are  the  Su'ila,  or  prayers  used 
in  incantations.  The  distinction  probably  consists  in  the 
fact  that  the  eriagiugmal  was  accompanied  by  music  and 
liturgical  formality.  Note,  however,  that  a  prayer  in  an 
incantation  ritual  has  both  titles  in  IV  R.  55  No.  2  Rev.  6. 
Also  ZiMMERN,  KL.  No.  51,  describes  a  ritual  to  accompany 
an  erSagiugmal,  which  there  clearly  belongs  to  an  incantation, 
so  that  the  two  groups  of  private  prayers  were  confused.  Since 
the  erSagiugmal  was  properly  a  penitential  psalm  of  a  liturgical 
character,  entirely  distinct  in  origin  from  the  prayers  used  in 
incantations,  they  were  employed  also  in  funeral  dirges. 
Harper,  Letters  437,  see  Behrens,  Briefe  97.  Psalms  of 
this  kind  in  pure  Sumerian  existed  in  the  Assyrian  period  as 
K.  9618  in  BL.   1T5  testifies.'     This  title  has  not  yet  been 

'Cf.  also  BL.  139. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I  I9 

found  attached  to  any  pure  Semitic  psalm,  although  Zimmern 
in  his  Busspsalmen  included  IV  R.  6i  No.  i  and  66  No.  2,  in 
this  class  of  literature. 


1.  dingir  gu-ul-gu-ul  edin-na  edir> 

na  ba-ji-ga 

2.  dingir  edin-na  dingir  gu-ul-gu- 

ul  edin-na  edin-na  ha-^i-ga 

3.  Amurru  ^\mu\-un  nun-ur^  sd- 

mal-ge 
4-  '"I'    ?'"'''    1"^  ga-ta-an  gu-la* 


itr-sag  dingir-^i-da  min 

Amurru 
Amurru  dingir-ji-da  min 

''Amurru 
a*-iir-sd-sd-mu  ''Amurru 


di-li-ri-mi-mu 
bar-bi  mu-lu-ga-bi . 


^Amurru 


1.  The  great  god,  on  the  hills,  on 

the  hills  advances. 

2.  The  god  of  the  hills,  the  great 

god  on  the  hills,  on  the  hills 
advances. 
J.  Amurru,  lord  nunur,  councilor. 

4.  Faithful  prince,  father  of  the 

great  queen. 

5.  Heroic,  faithful  god  thou  art, 

Amurru. 

6.  Amurru,  a  faithful  god  thou  art, 

yea  Amurru. 

7.  He    that    directs    my    limbs, 

Amurru. 

8.  He  that  gave  life  unto  my  form, 

Amurru 


Reverse 


1 .  a-ra-lju , . 

2.  lit 


3.  li*   e-ri   di\m~me-ir-bi   la-a-ju-ta 
mu-un-kur-e] 


1.  Supplication. . . . 

2.  The  man  who  [. 

3.  Ifamanhas[. .. 

] 


.thou  d,ost 


'  nun-ilr-ra  is  a  lille  of  Ea  as  god  of  poltery,  1 1  Raw.  ;8,  ;7.  tiunur  in  our  passage  probably 
represents  n«ntr>nunuT=  Ramman  ia  meh't,  "R-  of  batile,"  CT.  34,  41,  6). 

'  This  title  designates  NinS  the  water  goddess  in  BL,  71,  39.  who  was  worshipped  in  Sirar 
a  quarter  of  Lagash,  SBP.  284,  5  t.  MAR-TU.  a  western  liile  of  Immer,  the  rain-god,  therefore, 
becomes  the  father  of  the  irrigation  goddess  in  theological  speculation.  This  western  Amurru, 
Adad,  is  really  a  married  type,  a  western  ba'al,  who  after  his  identification  with  Immer  becomes 
a  composite  and  illogical  character. 

'  Var.  of  d;  the  title  would  probably  be  rendered  multiUr  mehlli-ia. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


4.  lit  e-mi-da^  [ ]  hi  la-a- 

5.  ih-si^   sur-mu-ra-^u^   mi-ni-su-iui 

sag-ju  ii'im-h-l ] 

6.  iir*-gu-ud  ki'in^  gu-m'-ki-in  iu- 

fM-a  iu-mu  lu-al 

7.  nam-da-a^  gu.-udiu-bar-p<P  sag- 

di-ib^''-ia  gi 

8.  uku-e  pad  ^i-ni-ib-bi 

ka-na-tni  tu-su 

9.  iag-ju   iag-a-ma  du-da-ki   ki-bi 

ia-ma-gi-gi 

10.  ama  du-di  a-ia  dunia-a-ki  ki-bi 
^a-ma-gi-gi 


4.  I  f  a  man  [has ] 


5,  It  is  enough!    Thy  wwrcy  is  un- 
searchable.    May  thy  heart 


6.  Like  a  mighty  hero,  like  a  strong 

man  in  thy  hand  take''  my 
hand. 

7.  The    sin    overlook;     faithfully 

remove,  and  thine  anger  turn 
away. 

8.  "Give    heed    to    the    people," 

let  be  said  (to  thee);  and  the 
Land 

9.  May  thy  heart  like  the  heart 

of  a  childbearing  mother  re- 
turn to  its  place. 
10.  Like    a    childbearing    mother, 
like  a  begetting  father  return 
to  its  place. 


4577 
A  Lamentation  on  the  Invasion  of  Sumer  by  the  People 

OF    GUTIUM 

This  interesting  tablet  probably  refers  to  the  conquest 
of  Sumer  by  Gutium,  a  people  who  enjoyed  the  suzerainty  of 


■  Probable  varianl  of  a/gig,  IV  R.  i<m  )4. 

'Literally  uggatH  maW,  "the  wralh  is  full,"  >nti}I,  'il  is  enough;"  a  phrase  characi eristic 
of  penitential  psalms;  see  .^SKT,  133,  14,  gaian-mu  e-ri-^u-lii  ib-si  ba-ab^ii.  "OK  my  queen, 
for  thy  servant  say  unto  him,  'it  is  enough';"  also  BL.  123,  jy. 

•  I  have  regarded  mmut  as  a  variant  of  luiar  =  gimiUa. 

'  JUj  appears  to  have  been  omitted.     Note  also 

'  For^i'm  >  (in  >  kin  =  kima.  cf.  CT.  15,  1 1.  6,  ie-gim.  Var.  U-gt-ii 
Also  ii=tiii=itii«fl,  below,  lines  9  f. 

'  t»ru  =  gunil  =  idlu. 

->  iu-al  =  lu-ita  =  kali  nam?).     See  al  1).  Sum.  Cr.  jol. 

'  For  nam-lag.     Cf.  alaga>atadtt,  field,  Man.  Tammttj  V  9, 

»Cf.  IV  R.  17038, 

1°  Var,  of  lag-dib  =  Hf  tibbi. 


in  Obv,  3 

VAT,  61 7  in  ZA.  a 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON— SUMERIAN    LrTURGICAL  TEXTS  121 

this  land  for  a  long  period  in  the  interval  between  the  period 
of  the  Sargonic  dynasty  of  Agade  and  Ur-Engur.  It  evidently 
represents  a  numerous  series  of  Hturgical  compositions  which 
commemorated  this  great  calamity,  for  a  duplicate  from  the 
same  period  has  been  found  in  the  Nippur  collection  in 
Constantinople,  see  Historical  and  Religious  Texts  No.  II. 
These  two  redactions  differ  considerably,  a  fact  which  can 
only  be  explained  by  supposing  that  this  liturgy  had  been 
handed  down  for  many  generations  and  had  passed  through 
many  redactions.  The  Constantinople  fragment  belongs  to 
column  two  of  a  large  four-column  tablet  which  probably 
used  an  excerpt  from  this  short  composition.  Both  texts 
belong  to  the  Isin  period  when  the  method  of  constructing 
long  services  by  compiling  from  ancient  liturgies  was  already 
in  vogue.  See  for  a  discussion  of  this  method  Babylonian 
Liturgies,  p.  xlii.  This  composition  possesses  a  liturgical  refrain 
a  giSgal-gul-la  i-gul-la,  etc.,  which  recurs  after  each  section 
describing  the  sorrows  of  some  city. 


I {ki)   uru  ba-diba  fa-i«g- 

ba-ab-dug 

2.  ^ mut-da-ge   kidur   kenag- 

gi-ni  gir-kHr  ba-ra-an-d&T 

5.  nitalam-a-ni  dingir  nam- 

4.  Idg-ga-a    er-    in-    bil-    bit-    e 

5.  a   giigal-gul-la  i-gul-la-mu  gig- 

ga-bi  ni-im-me 

6.  W-ii  iag-iug-ga  ni-gdl^  a-nu-un- 

de 


I the  city,  which  has  been 

seized     ,    has    been 

annihilated  with  calamity. 

2.  As  for mushda,  his  beloved 

abode  the  foot  of  a  stranger 
inhabits. 

j-4.  His  spouse  Nam tagga 

wails  repeatedly. 

5.  How  long  my  destroyed  habi- 

tations, my  destroyed  temple 
— shall  their  misery  be? 

6.  The  canal  which   rejoices  the 

hearts  of  the  cattle  waters 
the  fields  no  more. 


■  See  B<A.  LUurgies,  p.  7$  n.  10. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


.  id     ^en-ki-ge     nam-kud-du-gim 

sag^-bi-a  ba-til 

.  a-iag-ga    U-gu    nu-gdl    halam-e 

nu-nag-e 

.  dul    ^^tar-bi    "gir-gim     ba-mur- 

mur^  dib-bi  sig-gan  ba-ab-dii* 


.  mAi-aniu    nig-Hr-tab-Iab- . . 
nu-mu-un-BU-e 


1 1 .  nig-ur-tab-lab   an-glr-ge   ni   nu- 

mu-ni-ib-ie-en-U-en 

12.  Hugal-{?)-da-ge  uru-ni-ta  bar-ta 

ba-da-ium* 

1 3.  nin-pi-an-{na?]  ki-dur  kenag-g^- 

ni  gir-kHr  ba-ra-an-dur 

14.  a  gilgal-gul-la  e-gul-la-na  gig-ga- 

bi  im-me 

15.  i-si-m-{ki)  nigin  kar-ri  nu-me-a 

a-e  KU-e-DAR 

16.  \nin  i-\si-in-na  sag-kalam-ma-ge 

er-gig  ni-dug-ga 

17.  [a  giigal-gul-]la  i-g&l-la-na  gig- 

ga-bi  im-me 

18.  [nigin  nippur](ki)-a^  dur-an-ki- 

ka  mit(a  ba-an-sig 


19,  [igi    ^en-lil-li]    uru-ni    nippur- 
{ki-)a  ela  ba-ab-gar 


The  "Canal  of  Enki,"  like  a 

malediction    by    a    curse,  is 

brought  to  nought. 
In  the  fields  rain  is  not;    the 

land  is  watered  not. 
The  garden  cellars  are  become 

heated  like  an  oven  and  its 

stores  are  scattered. 
The  domestic  animals  as  many 

as  are  four-footed  of  the. . . . 

not. 
The  four-footed  animals  of  the 

plains  repose  not. 
The  god,   Lugal-?-da-ge,  from 

his  city  has  been  taken  away. 
As  for  Ninzu-anna,  her  beloved 

abode  the  foot  of  stranger 

entered. 
How    long    of    her    destroyed 

habitations  and  her  destroyed 

temple  shall  the  misery  be? 
In    Isin   mercy   and   salvation 

are  not:    ? 

The  Lady  of  Isin,  princess  of 

the  Land,  weeps  bitterly. 
How    long    of    her    destroyed 

habitations  and  her  destroyed 

temple  shall  the  misery  be? 
{All  0/  Nippur],  the  binder  of 

heaven    and    earth,    by    the 

death  dealing  weapon  is  smit- 
ten. 
[Before  Enlil,)  in  his  city  Nippur 

a  deluge  was  sent. 


'  $ag-bi  =  niamit.  is  the  original  of  Ihe  regular  form  sag-ba.  from  V'M  to  cast  and  bt  to  utter. 

'  For  the  root  mur.  to  heat,  boil,  see  Sum.  Gr.,  p,  319,  and  ki-mu-ri,  furnace,  Historical  and 
Reliiious  Texts,  p.  29,  33. 

'da  is  employed  as  a  variant  of  dUg, 

'Or  gub.    Literally,  "has  been  placed  outside." 

'Restored  from  Zimmern,  K-L.,  [99  II  ;r.  The  variant  has  a  somewhat  different  text, 
'n4il4id»TMr(f) 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — 5UMERIAN    LITURCICAL   TEXTS 


30.  [ama  *]nin4il  nin  ki-iir-ra-lge] 

er-gig  ni-Ui-Ui*^ 

31.  t"]  gitial-gul-la  e-gul-la-na  gig- 

gd'hi-im* 

22.  [Kel-\{ki)  an-edin-tta-di  dit-a  iu- 

lil-U-    bd'    ab-    dUg 

23.  Mdab-bu-(ki)  i  id-bil-M  a-ri  a-e 

ba-da-ab-dim 

24.  kur  Gu-ii-um-ge  ki-nad  ba-ni-ib- 

gar  ki-hal  lu-ba-ab^ig 

25.  Gu-ti-[um'ki]-iag-ba      ni-bat-bal 

numun{l)  ba-ni-ib-i-i 

26.  "^nin-ittd-ri     nig-dim-dim-ma-n^ 

er-gig-ni-Ul-lii 

27.  a*  giigal-gul-la  i-gul-la-ru^  gig- 

ga-bi-im-me 


a-gi  edin-na-ajag-ga  ia- 

Ul-U-ba-ab-dug 

unu "'inttini   ba-da-an-kar 

ki-erim-e^  ba-    ab-    dug 

i-an-\na\  H  gi-pir  a^ag-ga  erim-e 

igi  i-ni-in-bar 

[gi-par]aiag    nam-en-na-ba    iu- 

ba-e-^lal-lA 

gi-pir-ta  ba-da-an-^ar 


erim-e  ba-    ab-        turn 

[a  giigal\-gu!-la  i-gul-la-na  gig- 
ga-bi  im-me 


20.  Mother  Ninlil,  mistress  of  Ki- 

utra,  weeps  sorrowfully. 

21.  How    long    of    her    destroyed 

habitations  and  her  destroyed 
temple  shall  the  misery  be. 

22.  KeS  which  is  built  on  the  plain 

he  has  razed  like  the  winds. 

23.  In  Adab  the  temple  placed  by 

the  new  canal ? 

24.  Hostile  Gutium  made  there  his 

resting  place;    the  stranger 
wreaked  destruction. 
2;.  Gutium  rebelled  in  his  heart  and 
exalted  his  race. 

26.  Nintud    because  of   his  deeds 

weeps  bitterly. 

27.  How    long    of    her    destroyed 

habitations  and  her  destroyed 

temple  shall  the  misery  beP 
28 in  the  holy  plain  he  has 

razed  like  the  wind. 
29 of   Innini  is  plundered 

and  cursed. 

30.  Eanna,    abode   of    the    "Dark 

Chamber,"  the  foe  beheld. 

31.  Oftheholy"DarkChamber"the 

priestly  rites  are  suspended. 
32 from  the  "Dark  Chamber" 

has  been  plundered. 

33 the  foe  carried  away. 

34.  How    long    of    her    destroyed 

habitations  and  her  destroyed 

temple  shall  the  misery  be? 


'  The  variant  has  tr-gig  mu-un-iil-til. 
'  This  line  is  omitted  on  the  variant. 
•  Var.  adds  lA,  which  is  necessary  to  the  sense. 

'On  abstracts  formed  with  prefixed  Jii,  see  Sum.  Gr.  |i  J2. 

'■  e  is  evidently  not  an  indication  of  the  second  person  here  but  produces  the  effect  of  a 
imlaut  on  the  vowel  a;  read  b64a-hl;  seeSaw.  Gr.,  p.  5;  note  6.  For  lu-lal,  10  bind,  restrait 
',  Hiilorical  and  Religious  Ttxti.  p.  7  I,  iS,  and  VR.  5011  65. 


,,  Google 


124  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

35.  . . .  {ki)lum-kur-ba-ba-dib  ud  gig-         35.  [In    Erech?]    its is    seized 

ga  ba-e-ri{g}  light    in    darkness    is    over- 

whelmed, 

4564 

Legend  of  Gilgamish 

This  fragment  together  with  one  in  the  Nippur  Collection 
of  Constantinople  published  in  my  Historical  and  Religious 
Texts  No.  55  are  the  only  parts  yet  recovered  of  a  series  of 
Sumerian  tablets  containing  the  legend  of  Gilgamish.  These 
were  certainly  excavated  at  Nippur.  It  is  probable  that  a 
similar  double  column  and  nearly  complete  text  in  Berlin, 
VAT.  6281,  published  by  Zimmern  in  his  Kulilieder  No.  196 
should  be  assigned  to  the  same  source.  Although  the  dealer 
who  sold  the  Berlin  tablet  asserted  Dilbat  as  the  source,  yet 
it  is  more  likely  that  this  tablet  was  filched  from  the  excava- 
tions of  Nippur.  The  style  of  all  three  texts  and  their  epigraphy 
show  that  they  belong  together.  In  KL.  [96  Rev.  II  14  and 
16  the  companion  of  Gilgamish  is  mentioned  {en~gi~du{g)),  and 
the  Constantinople  tablet  begins  seS-a-ni,  "his  brother,"  which 
clearly  refers  to  Enkidu.'  As  in  the  Semitic  epic  of  Gilgamish 
so  also  in  these  three  tablets  the  city  Erech  and  its  goddess 
Innini  are  frequently  mentioned,  a^ag  ''innini  occurs  in  His- 
torical and  Religious  Texts  No.  55,  14;  KL.  196  II  21;  24. 
The  temple  of  Innini  in  Erech,  i-an-na  occurs  in  KL.  196  I  7; 
Ni.  4564,  Obv.  16.  Note  also  lugal-a-ni-ir  {ag-sal  mu-na-bi, 
"To  his  king  praise  he  uttered,"  Ni.  4564  Rev.  16,  and  lugal- 
a-ni-ir  ''Gibilgamil  gk-mu-un-du  "(Enkidu)  to  his  king  Gilgamish 
spoke,"  KL.  196  Rev.  II  [7. 

'  The  Semilic  epic  of  Gilgamish  calls  them  "brothers,"  aha  kilallan  {Ul  PI.),  see   Hau^t, 
Nimrodtpo!.  p.  48  I,  17), 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  !25 

I  am  unable  to  make  a  connected  translation  of  any  of 
these  tablets  although  many  lines  are  intelligible.  Obverse 
15^18  of  Ni.  4564  may  be  rendered: 

unug-{ki)  gil-^in-ti^    dingir-ri-e-ne-ge 
e-an-na  e-an-ta    e-ne 

dingir-gal-gal-e-ne    me-bi    ba-an-ag-eS-dm 
bdd-gal    bdd-an-ni    ki-us-sa 

"In  Erech  the  skillfully  made  work  of  the  gods. 
From  Eanna  the  lofty  house  they  went  forth. 
The  great  gods  their  decrees  had  instituted. 
On  the  city  wall,  the  lofty  wall  she(?)  stood."* 

And  Reverse  9-13: 

unug-{ki)-ga  dim-ma-bi    ba-sug 
'gi-bil-ga-miS    en  Hallab-ge^ 
uT-sag-bi-ru-ir    gu-mu-na-de-e 
ur-sag-mu-ne        igi-mu-un-su^-sug-ii-ne 

"In  Erech  his  work  was  confounded. 
Gilgamish  the  lord  of  Hallab 
To  their  strong  men  cried, 
'My  strong  men  behold!'  " 

I  cannot  discover  in  any  of  these  tablets  a  reference  to  the 
fight  of  Gilgamish  and  Enkidu  with  the  divine  bull.  Additional 
material,  however,  will  enable  us  to  translate  these  obscure 
lines  and  place  in  our  hands  the  Sumerian  prototype  of  the 
Gilgamish  Epic. 

'  Applied  to  a  lemple(?)  in  SBH.  94,  js,  mu-ul-lfin-ti  ka-tmi-gd,  "the  skilled  work(?)  of  the 
land." 

'  Cf.  Gilgamish  Epic.  VI  174, 
•Same  title Obv.  25. 


,,  Google 


I20  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

4560 

.  LiTURCECAL  Hymn  Concerning  Ur-Engur 

Right  half  of  a  large  tablet  originally  containing  six 
columns  and  about  240  lines.  A  hymn  to  Ur-Engur  and  of 
historical  importance,  since  it  throws  some  light  upon  the 
events  which  led  up  to  the  founding  of  the  dynasty  of  Ur. 
The  founder  of  this  dynasty  has  left  us  no  other  important 
literary  documents,  for  the  few  inscriptions  hitherto  known 
concerning  this  king  are  too  brief  to  be  considered  important.' 
These  merely  mention  the  building  of  temples  in  Ur,  Nippur, 
Kesh,  Erech,  Larsa.  The  longest  of  his  previously  known 
inscriptions,  a  clay  peg  from  Lagash,  mentions  extensive 
irrigation  works  and  the  institution  of  righteous  laws  for  the 
empire  which,  as  in  the  case  of  Hammurapi,  the  king  promulgated 
under  the  guidance  of  Shamash  the  sun-god. 

The  second  column  of  this  hymn  continues  a  panegyric 
on  the  character  of  the  king,  a  subject  which  certainly  filled 
up  the  whole  of  the  first  column.  Beginning  with  line  24  of 
Col.  II  the  poem  mentions  the  king's  expeditions  unto  unknown 
lands,  his  conquest  of  seven  strange  lands  and  the  tribute  that 
flowed  to  his  capitol.  Col.  Ill  begins  an  interesting  section 
continued  for  about  eighty  lines  on  the  offerings  made  by  the 
king  to  various  gods  and  goddesses.  The  references  to  the 
god  Gilgamish  as  "his  brother"*  for  whom  weeping  is  ordered 
and  as  the  beloved  of  the  queen  of  Arallu^  afford  indispensable 
material  for  the  history  of  the  Tammuz  cult.  At  the  end  of 
Col.  IV  the  king  makes  a  pathetic  reference  to  his  wife.     The 

'Tkubeau-Dakgim,  SAK.  186-9.     See  also  Clav,  Miscel  No.  16. 
'  Rev.  IV  16. 
'Obv.  Ml  ro- 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN     LITURGICAL   TEXTS  12? 

fragmentary  lines  of  Col.  V  refer  to  the  institution  of  right- 
eousness in  the  land  and  the  banishment  of  sin. 

In  material  structure  this  six  column  text  resembles  the 
six  column  tablet  No.  4562  which,  however,  is  a  real  liturgical 
composition  to  a  king  who  had  been  deified.  Ur-Engur  never 
received  the  honor  of  deification  in  his  lifetime,  neither  did 
his  successors  found  a  cult  to  him.'  The  un ecclesiastical  spirit 
of  this  hymn  to  him  accords  with  the  other  historical  facts 
which  we  know  concerning  the  evolution  of  emperor  worship 
in  the  dynasty  of  Ur.  If  the  reader  will  compare  the  liturgical 
hymns  to  Dungi  published  in  my  Historical  and  Religious 
Texts,  Nos.  4  and  5,  or  the  long  liturgy  to  Bur-Sin  and  Gimil-Sin 
in  Radau  be.  29  No.  1,  or  to  Ishme-Dagan  in  this  volume, 
Ni.  4563,  he  will  discover  at  once  the  immense  change  which 
came  into  the  royal  panegyrics  after  the  reign  of  Ur-Engur. 
Only  in  this  hymn  to  him  do  we  gather  many  facts  of  profane 
history.  The  others  are  wearisome  laudations  composed  for 
public  worship. 


Obverse  II 
.ni-te  Ur-^EnguT  i-ka-ra. . .  i awe  Ur-Engur. . 


2 i~gal-a~na  n't-nad  2 in  his  palace  he  lies. 

'A  [ablet  in  Ihe  Bodleian  Library  dated  in  the  first  year  of  ''ibi-Sin  mentions  ofTerlngs 
to  the  cults  of  his  divine  predecessors,  Dungi,  Bur-Sin,  Gimil-Sin.  It  is  curious  Indeed  that 
the  founder  of  this  dynasty  and  father  of  the  second  king  Dungi  did  not  receive  divine  honors. 
Evidently  this  practice  and  religious  theory  had  not  been  adopted  in  the  reign  of  the  lirst  king. 
Dungi  himself  does  not  appear  to  have  received  this  title  until  he  had  reigned  many  years. 
The  fact  that  his  successors  did  not  elevate  Ur-Engur  to  this  rank  and  build  a  temple  to  his 
cult  tends  to  prove  that  the  divinity  of  kings  depended  upon  a  sacrament  of  some  kind  admin- 
istered to  the  living  king.  Religious  ideas  which  controlled  this  cult  of  emperor  worship  pre- 
vented the  elevation  of  a  dead  king  to  the  rank  of  a  god.  After  Dungi  the  kings  of  Ur  receive 
this  title  immediately  upon  accession  to  the  throne. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITV  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


3 .  . .  ditn'-e  kenag-mh  gH-nu-mu-un- 

4.  . .  .ra  ni-nad    gii-lal-bi    im-gub 

5 sur-ba     RU-TE     leg-saf 

gim 

6 ra-gim    im-ma-sud    me- 

gim-hi . . 

7 na    -f«      mu-ni-in- . 

8 tar  a-gim  i-gal 

9.  {n]ad?    Ttitailam  a-ni. . . .  URU- 

LU-da- 

10 a-ni-da   dam-a-ni-gim . . . . 

Id 

11 ga-ni  Dl-mu-du  GIBIL 

KUS  a-la-na-ha 

12 nig-dug-ga    la-ba-an-tag-gi 

iu-gib-ba 

13 a-ni  ''a-nun-na-ge-ne  kuS- 

im-ma-an-[?] 

14 ba-e-gub     ud-bi  la-ba-ni- 

ib-si 

15 a-dHg-ga-iu  leg la- 

ba-gdl 

16 du  ki-ba-dg-gH-bi  igi-gdl-bi 

ba-kHr 

17,  la{?)lu  nu-ju*-ii-ne  i-im-bal-bal- 

e-ne 

18,  ...-sal-la  Ur-^Engur ga'gai-gim 

a-ba-ni-in-ru-ai 

19,  . .  .a-ni  im-bdr-gid-da-gim  gal-bi 

im-h'gnb 

20." nu-gi-gd-a  nig-  tag-gi  tu- 

nu-gid  i-im-me 


3.  The  lord,  my  beloval,  turns  not 

back  the  breast. 

4.  In... he  lies,  the  bridal  cham- 

ber' he  occupies. 
5 raging like 

6 -. .  like. ...  is    long,    whose 

limbs 

7- 


14 thou   standest;     that  day 

was  not 

'5 

16 which  he  loves,  his  un- 
derstanding is  changed 
17.  Their they  altered. 

18 of  Ur-Engur  like  one  that 

drinks  milk  they  bestowed. 

19 his,    like  — ,    grandly   he 

mounted. 

20 ceases  not;  whose  iiow^A/j 

are  unattainable,  thou  art. 


'  REG  ago;  see  for  this  form  PSBA.  191  j,  277.  For  d(m  in  the  sense  of  "king,"  see  SBP. 
392,  14  i-dim-ma,  the  royal  house;  probably  in  SBP.  14,  15.  dim-ma-zu  ki-nu-nn-gam  amdi-ju 
la-dm-gid-gid,  "ihy  lord  is  not  reverenced,  ihy  sheepfolds  are  detnolislied."  where  dim  refers 
to  Tammuz. 

*  Set  Bab.  Ill  179. 

•Cf.  Historical  and  Ritigious  Texts,  p.  17,  iz. 

'The  sign  is  perhaps  ba. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


21.  Ur-^EngUT  me  li-e-a^  nam-mu 

22.  ...kisak-ki    kalanir-ma-iu 

23.  [dingir-]nin-sun    enim-dug-li-na 

ba-da-du 

24.  ni-l&i-ei-a^  er-mu-da-ab-    mJ-    e 


25 ki  nu-^u-na  '  md-bi  ba-da- 

ab-ju* 

26.  .  ?e-|?l  ba-    da-    ab-    far 

27.  gi'mui  gif-ji  ge-gdUla-bi  gH-edin 

ba-        ab-        du 
38.  [G»-edm-]'na     dub-ba-da-ah-d^g 
bal-bi  ba-tar 

29 1(  A'SLPba-da-gar  saiar-iel- 

j*  ba-t6m 
30 ud-da-ba     ru     Ki^ki) 

mur-un-di-ni-ib-lum 
31 kalam-ma-ge   ba-da-bal  ur 

kalam-ma  ba-kur 

32 ra  in-ti*-sug'ga-dm 

33 '^^girtar  ba-da-iut    ^ar'ra- 

an    im-ma-da-siii    iu-nu-um- 

ma-nigin'^ 


21.  Ur-Engur!     1  will  praise. 

22 

23.  Ninsun  with  comforting  words 

walked  with  him. 

24.  Those  whom  he  plundered  fol- 

lowed with  him  in  tears. 
25 in    a    place    which    was 

unknown     his     ships     were 

known.* 
26 was  severed. 

27.  Oars   of   cedar^    its    wealth    to 

Guedin'  brought 

28.  In  Gnedinif),  it  was  heaped  up, 

and  its  exchange  value  was 

fixed. 
29 was  made,  in  lessive  was 

washed  (?) 
30 at    that    time    brought 

with  him  the  gifts  of  Ki5(?) 
31 of  the  Land  rebelled;  the 

foe  showed  himself  hostile  to  ■ 

the  Land. 

32 he  was  hurled  down. 

33.  The  chariot  was  overthrown,  the 

expedition'"  was  annihilated, 

but  he  was  not  captured. 


'  attaktt  anaiHtnar,  cf.  SBH.  J4,  ;  and  SBP.  3,  14. 

'  C(.  BL.  p.  30  No.  19,  3  and  35. 

'  The  lext  has  su  clearly,  but  it  i)  probably  to  be  regarded  as  an  error. 

'  The  foreign  expeditions  of  this  king  are  referred  to  in  a  date  formula  of  his  reign,  "Year 
when  Ur-Engur  the  king  from  below  to  above  directed  his  footsteps,"  Thureau-Dancih, 
SAK.  asSd). 

'  Literally,  "faithful  wood."  probably  an  adjective  for  cedar,  and  employed  also  in  the 
divine  name  Nin-gti-ii-da,  a  tree  god,  v.  Tammui  and  Isbtar  7  n.  a. 

•This  term  appears  to  coincide  with  Sumer  here. 

'  ^-SU  (with  or  without  determinative  Hg)  ordinarily  means  labiH,  a  kind  of  garment, 
CT.  s.  3  I  s;  RTC.  aa(  Rev.  ).    The  sign  ^  is  written  mi«="two." 

*  According  to  1 1  R.  31.  8,  idranu,  potash. 

*  For  ta  passive.  See  Sum.  Or.  Jioo  and  la-ma-te-dtig,  "let  it  be  proclaimed,"  Zih.  KL, 
199II43. 

"Literally,  "route." 

•>  Su-nifin  occurs  as  a  verb  also  in  KL,  65,  lO,  iu-mu'un-nitin-e,  "it  gathers,  captures." 


,,  Google 


IJO 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


34 "^ginar  ba-da-iui  iar-ra-an 

im-ma-da-sug  iu-nu-um-ma- 
nigin 

35.  kur?Ta  imin-bi  nig-ba  ba-ab-sum- 
mu 

36 ba-dtg-gi-el-    a 

yj nin-dingiT-dig-ga    gi-e^ 

ba-dub-ba 
38 (?)  mu-an-ju-ui  kur-ra  ja- 

pa-dg  mu-un-gar 
39 m^-ab-kum-e^  udu,  -  im-ma- 

ab-tar-ri 
40 nig-gal-gal-Ia'  ba-U-in-dur- 

ru-ne-ei 
41 Uru-dm    a-kur-ra    Uru-na- 

dm 

42 an      kuT-    ra-  ge 

43 lag-ga-ni    mu-un-tu 


34 the  chariot  was  over- 
thrown, the  expedition  was 
annihilated,  but  he  was  not 
captured. 

35.  The  seven  foreign  lands  gave 
presents. 

36 whom  he  slew 

37 priestess  of  the  dead  on 

the  earlh  caused  to  repose. 

38.  ...at  thy  name  terror  in  the 
land  of  the  stranger  produced. 

39 eat;  the  sheep  become 

fat. 

40.  In they  dwell. 

41.  An  high  priest  he  is,  mountain- 

like might,^  an  high  priest  he 
is. 

42.  ..  .of  the  mountain. 
43 his  heart  knows. 


1.  lugal-e    nidab-kur-ra-ge    gil-im- 

ma-ab-tag-gi 

2.  ur-^engur  nidab-kur-ra-ge  gii-im- 

ma-ab-iag-gi 

3.  gud-da  mdi-da  udu-leg  en-na-ab- 

du-du-a 

4.  gil-kdk-dig^  giS-iir-gaP'  e-mar-ur* 

gii-kak-iir  gir-ka-sil 


1 .  The  king  freewill  ofTerings  of  the 

mountains  brought  as  sacri- 
fice. 

2.  Ur-Engur   freewill   offerings  of 

the    mountains    brought    as 
sacrifice. 

3.  Sleek  oxen,  sleek  kids,  fat  sheep, 

as  many  as  he  had  brought, 

4.  A   "death  dealing  weapon"  of 

marble,   a   quiver,    a    KAK- 
SlR,  a  sword  with  sharp  edge. 


'  For  *Mm,  "to  eat,"  v.  BL.  98  n.  3. 

*Cf.  galu  nit-gal-gal-la  — la  rapMt  la  alrMi,  "he  of  greatness,  excellence,"  Voc.  Hittile,  7455. 
*Cti-kuT-Ta.  SBP.86,  28n.  2. 

'Cf.  Nip.  4577,  18  and  SBH.  39,  3.     The  Semiiic  rendering  is  aplublu,  "boomerang,"  or 
u.  "sickle." 
*  Sic  wilhout  delerminalive  dig. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURCrCAL   TEXTS 

kui-lu-Hb-ddr-a^     ib-ba-gdl-la-ba 
^ne-unu-gal    ^en-lil  kur-ra-      ra 


13" 


sib  UT-^enguT-ge  i-gal-a'tia     git- 

im-ma-ab-iag-gi 
gii-gid-da     kui-lu-6b-kalag(f)si- 

mi-a  j-mi-ib-ug?-an-na* 


?  ki-us-sa  &  nam- 

ur-sag-gd TUM  SIL 

.  \f]-ga-da-gar  kenag  '^erii-ki-gal-la 
.  ''gibil-ga-mes  lugal-kur-ra-       ge 

.  sib  ur-^enguT-ge  i-gal-la-na    gii- 

im-ma-ab-iag-gi 
.  [ ^]-keS-da  i4  ba-ni-in-de-a 

bur-iagan*  Ju-dii-a 

t&g la-TUL-gid       i&g-nam- 

niri'  nam-^in-a 
i    m^-dalla    me-    kur-ra 

\6.  ^nin-{?) a-ba-  ra 

17.  sib[ur-''engur-ge   e-gal-la-na   gii- 
im-ma-a  b-tag-gi] 

LU 

pa  a^ag-gi. .  en-na. . . .  J«     lagin 


20.  ^dumu-p-tum-ma  kenag  ''inntni-  20. 


A    variegated    leather    pouch 

which 

to    Nergal,    the    EnlU    of   the 

mountains 
The  shepherd  Ur-Engur  in  his 

palace' offered. 
A   bow smiter  of  battle, 

the  j»ii&-weapon,  panther  of 

Anu, 
that  treads  the 

strength  of  heroism, 

To beloved  of  Erishkigal, 

Gilgamish,  lord  of  the  moun- 
tain,* 
The  shepherd  Ur-Engur  in  his  - 

palace  offered. 
A  copper{?)-KE&DA.  into  which 

oil    is   poured,   a  well-made 

stone  ointment  bowl, 
A  long garment,  a  "royal 

garment,"  for  the  royalty, 
of  the  temple  that  glorifies  the 

decrees  of  the  world. 

Unto  Nin-sun 

The  shepherd  [Ur-Engur  in  his 

palace  offered.] 

A  pure  staff,  .lazuli. . . . 

which  is  worthy  of  Tammuz* 
the  beloved  of  Innini, 


^'oLU-KU=ImM)u. 

'  So,  probably  not  "temple,"  see  Expository  Times  XX  457. 

•Cf.  mi-ib-aH-na-gt  ug-gim  iur-lCi  d&g-gar-ra-a.  "The  weapon  Mi-ib  of  Anu  which,  like  1 
,  roan  against  the  strange  land,"  Gud.  Cyl.  B  7,  34. 

<  Since  Erishkigal,  queen  of  the  underworld,  occurs  in  the  preceding  line,  the  title  "lord  of 
mountain"  refers  also  to  the  underworld. 
*Knuluf    Cf.  giUktlda  a  cult  utensil. 
»Cf.  IV  Raw.  ao.  No-  2*  3;   iSb  14. 
"•tldilsili&tim,  BL.  p.  So,  14. 

^UiTH-ma^Wuku:  see  Hrwny,  Ninrag  p.  16,  18;   Ebelino,  KTA.  No.  40bv.  jj.  Rev.  10; 
iBEL,  PBS.  V  154  V  6  f. 


y  Google 


132 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


21.  sib  ur- engur  e-gal-a-na  gH-im- 

ma-ab-tag-gi 

22.  gil-sa}-  iu-du-a  kH-^a^ag-gi  md- 

gur-bi  su?-lag-ga 

23.  dag-gug-ajag  nig-dU  dingir-ri-e- 

ne 

24.  ^nam-lar  galu  nam-lar-tar-ra-ra 

25.  sib  UT-'^engur  i-gal-a-na  gH-im- 

ma-ab-tag-gi 

26.  dub-ba'  xagin.  .nam-irigal-a-ge 

27.  gii-kelda-aia^       ddg-gug-tag-ga 

gii-bi  gtt-?-sal-a 

28.  ''Rui-bi-idg  dam  ''nam-tar-ra-ra 

29.  116   uT-''engur-ge   i-gal-a-na   git- 

im-ma-ab-tag-gi 

30.  gii-gar  lu-? ajag-gi-ta  ri(?)-a 


31.  girki  gir-ui. . . 

32.  gir'iir  dar-dar. . 


The  shepherd,  Ur-Engur,  in  his 

palace  offered. 
A    beautiful    gilsa,    a    sacred 

KES{?)  whose  skiff 

Of  pure  porphyry,  that  which  is 

appropriate  to  the  gods. 
To  Namtar  lord  of  fates. 
The  shepherd,  Ur-Engur,  in  his 

palace  offered. 
A  tablet  of  lazuli. . ,  .of  the  fate 

of  Arallu, 
A  Kelda-aiag  fashioned  of  por- 
phyry, whose  wood 

To  RuSbiSag,  consort  of  the  god 

of  fates, 
The  shepherd  Ur-Engur  in  his 

palace  offered. 
A  wagon with  golden . . . 

. .  .covered(?), 


'  gU-sa  refers  to  a  definile  object  here  as  in  Gud.  B.  6.  76. 

'  Probable  value  of  REC.  215.     For  lu-Jfl^-ga  cf.  SAK.  48  V  14. 

*  A  tendency  to  regard  the  goddess  of  the  nether  world  as  she  who  possesses  the  tablet  of 
fates  probably  refers  to  the  summons  to  die  passed  on  the  living  by  the  lord  and  queen  of  Arallu 
(Nergal  and  Allatu).  For  Nergal  as  scrutinizer  of  the  dead,  see  Bab.  VI  209  n.  8.  The  title 
duplarrat  aralit  (scribe  of  Arallu),  is  employed  of  types  of  the  queen  of  (he  land  of  the  dead. 
^Rin-lniij-iin-nii.  a  title  of  the  mother  goddess  Innlnl,  CT.  16,  3,  9;.  Nin-gifliH-tui.  vine  goddess, 
Identified  with  the  western  mother  goddess  bllil  (Iri  (and  related  to  the  grain  goddess  Nidaba), 
IV  R.  fjb  ig;  Dkorme,  Cboix  2 1 4,  47.  For  Nidaba  as  the  scribe. who  holds  a  tablet  and  knows 
the  secrets  of  the  stars  and  all  wisdom,  see  Tammuj  and  hbtar  I  ;  I  f.  The  goddess  Mar-unt- 
lal-ait-ki  ad-gl-gl  [nSi  abubi  iaml  u  irsiiim  mSlikatu),  a  name  for  Allatu  is  the  mother  of  the 
god  of  fate  Namtar,  CT,  2j,  ;,  39,  who  is  the  messenger  of  this  same  Altatu  or  EriSkigal,  ibid.  31^ 
34,  34,  4.  Namtar  is  probably  the  herald  whom  the  queen  of  Arallu  sends  forth  to  cause  men 
to  die  and  bring  them  to  her  realm,  hence  he  is  a  pest  god.  The  goddess  Ruibiiai  his  consort. 
CT.  34,  34,  ;  =  3j,  ;,  31.  is  only  another  form  of  the  goddess  who  holds  the  tablet  on  which  the 
hour  of  death  for  each  man  was  written.  This  function  originally  belonged  to  the  great  mother 
goddess,  especially  in  her  capacity  as  queen  of  the  land  of  the  dead.  In  her  later  evolution  this 
duty  of  keeping  the  roll  of  fate  fell  to  the  inferior  deity  RuSbiSag  or  more  frequently  to  Nidaba 
or  Geitinanna  when  she  became  the  patroness  of  letters.  The  main  fact  to  be  emphasized  is 
the  theory  of  the  divine  summons  to  die.  laid  by  the  mother  goddess  upon  man  and  executed 
by  her  herald  the  "God  of  Fate." 

'  krUa-ajag  is  a  title  of  Arallu  in  CT.  16,  3,  gy 


,,Goog[e 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN 

33.  sib  munsub^  a-  ui-e         33. 

34.  dun  ur-sag  ^ntn-gii-ji'    da 


LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I33 

To  the  shepherd,  the  pastor,  who 


35.  sib   ur-^engur-ge  i-gal-a-na  gil' 

im-ma~a  b-tag-gi 

36.  dag-dub-^agin     ba-da-ra-m^  Id-a 

37.  SAR-DI-da  gulkin  kubabbar  sag- 

bi  rui-ma 

38.  '^nannar  al-me-a^ag-gi  jag-ga-na 

gTtb-hurde 

39.  tug-sa^kad  gii-pHuk-ma^'galu-iU 

gii-lir-gal 

40.  gi-dub-ba    lag-bar-ra    nig-nam- 

dub'iar-ra-ge 

41.  ?  -gan-?kur     gi-dil-nindd* 


42.  KAK-US. . .  .a-ni      nin. . 

43.  dub ra    It 


The  mighty,  the  valiant  NingiS- 

zida, 
The  shepherd  Ur-Engur  in  his 

palace  offered. 
A  tablet  of  lazuli  attached  to  a 

handle, 
A    SAR'DI-DA    of   gold    and 

silver,  which   is  exceedingly 

brilliant, 
For   Nannar    sacred    disks    to 

stand  at  his  side 

A  headdress  for  the  great  sage, 

the  learned,  of  marble, 
A  stylus  of  bronze,  instrument 

of  the  art  of  writing, 
a     rod     measuring    reed 

{made  of ) 


na    ? 


^PA-\-USAN{!.g\\tr\\nCl.  \i.  [3  as  the  full  form  of  t/S^W  (ia-a6) -ri-(-«w,  or  L/5/f  JV 
(mM-BB-ju-afc),  Weissbach,  Miutl.  p.  30,  7.  For  the  full  form  PA  +  USAN  see  also  DP.  )i» 
V  14,  where  it  forms  a  proper  name,  and  RTC.  76  I  3:  iib  and  mansub  are  both  rendered  by 
rc'u  shepherd  which  makes  their  conjunction  here  inexplicable.  Evidently  some  distinction 
eusts  between  these  words, 

*  biidaratui  =  ial-tat-ri  {01  pa-iar-ri}),  syn.  paint,  sword,  BL.  79, 11  —PI.  LXE  16  and  ASKT. 

*GAR  when  employed  as  a  standard  of  linear  measure  has  probably  the  value  ninda, 
variant  of  Br.  46;8  {ninda) = itia,  side,  border,  and  equals  twelve  cubits  or  between  five  and  six 
yards,  see  Thureau-Dancin.  JA.  1909.  p.  97.  Hence  the  word  ian  nindaiuiiu,  means  a  reed 
measure  13  cubits  long.  Fot  the  asml  gi-ninda-gan  =  ian  nindatm^u,  "reedof  the  side  of  afield," 
SAL  ];;8,  we  have  gi  GAR  Cninifa)-nii  —  i<i-dn  [nindanahu].  VR.  33,  43.  Our  text  has  ^n 
iiUn  nindana^u,  "reed  one  ninda  long,"  which  verifies  Meissner's  restoration,  SAl.  1654.  Note 
also  \xi-BAR-NlNDA\-Wt  ["»'}>'  nindanalf^  or  a  reed  }i  ninda  long.  CT.  XI,  47  III  25. 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIA 


(5ii(?) ....  ]kur-ra'ge  si-bi-in-sd- 

a-ia 
[uT-''Eftgur  sib(?)]kur-ra-ge  si-bi- 

in-sd-a-ta 
urugal-la-ge  bS 


.  iit-ge 


hi 


ur-''engur-ra'ge      mu-ni-ib-l^g-ii 

bi 

kuT-ra  ki mu-na-md-md  be 

dug-4ug-ga  ''erei-ki-gal-la-ka-ta 

erim  gil~KU\?    ?\    en-na-ba-   ? 
•ga 

13.  galu   nam-lag-ga  en-na-ba- 

...  .a 

14.  lugal-la      lu-ni-lu. .  -im-ma-ab- 

sum-mu-ne 

15.  ur-''engur  ki-bi-iii ei. . . . 

1 6.  Ul-kenag-ga-ni '' gi{t)-bil-ga'[mes\ 

e-ne  sd-kur-ra-ni-de  ka-ai  kur-ra- 

ud-imin  ud-u-dm       ba-jal-la-ba 

lugal-mu  i-si-ii        ki-en-gi-ra-ge 
sd-nam-bi    mu-ni-ib-dUg 

ur-''engur    i-ii-iJ    ki~en-gi-ra-ge 

sd-nam-bi  mu-ni-'tb-diig 
bad  uri-{ki)-ma   mu-un-til-la-ni 

e-gal-i{i-na  mu-un-?-ni nu- 


5.  [The   shepherd   the ]   of  the 

lands  directed. 

6.  \VT-EngUT.  the  shepherd,  tbe ] 

of  the  lands  directed. 

7.  \By  the  command  of  the  hrd]  of 

Arallu  he  directed. 

8.  [By  the  commartd. . . . )  of . . . .  he 

directed 

9.  Ur-Engur    who the    lands 

pacified,  directed. 
ID.  The  foreign  lands  which  paid 
him  obeisance  he  directed. 

11.  By   the  injunctions  of  Eresh- 

kigal, 

12.  the men  as  many  as 

13.  The  wicked  men  as  many  as 


14.  Whom   into  the  hand  of  the 

king  they  gave, 

15.  Ur-Engur  to  their  place 

them, 

16.  For  his  beloved  brother  Gilga- 

mish.' 

17.  That  one,  who  to  bless  his  land, 

rendered  judgment  forhisland,' 

18.  When  the  seventh  day  and  the 

tenth  dawned, 

19.  My  king  the  lamentations  of 

Sumer commanded. 

20.  Ur-Engur  the  lamentations  of 

Sumer commanded. 

21.  The    wall    of    Ur    which    had 

become  old, 

22.  The  palace  which  by  fire  was 

and  was  seen  no  more. 


■Cf,  BE.  n  No.  55  I.  I. 

'  tt'e  expect  here  a  reference  to  the  perishing  of  Gilgamish,  an  ancient  king  who  died  for  his 
people  in  the  rfile  of  Tammuz.     See  Tamtnui  and  Ishtar  40. 

•  The  scribe  seems  to  have  omitted  a  line  here  referring  10  the  rebuilding  of  the  wall  and 
palace  of  Ur. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


23. 

sib-bi  i-a-tti ta  bi'tn-aga-ni 

23- 

The  shepherd  whose  home  by 
had  been  plundered(?). 

24. 

dam-a-ni      iir-ra-na nu-mu- 

24. 

Whose  wife  to  his  bosom,  .one 

un-gi-a-ni 

had  not  restored. 

25. 

dumu-ni    d&-ba-na    U-be-in-pei- 

25. 

Whose  son  grew  not  up  on  his 

a-ni 

knees. 

26. 

26. 

27. 

28.  sib-lid  i-lu  nig-me-gar  ni-te-na 
39.  md-e  nig  ne-t       ba-     aga-a-mu 

30.  dingir-rJ-t-ne-tT     mu-tu-gub-bu- 

nam 

?-iiT  mu-ne-gdl 

31.  "a-[nun-na-]ge-ne    ie-gdl-la    pa- 

mu-ne-i-a-ni 

32.  gii-nad  ii-iagin^  ddg-ga-ba  gilsa 

mu-ne-ga  r-ra-mu 

33.  an-ki  mal-la-ba  e-du-la  mu-la  ba- 

ni-ib-sutP-di 

34 me-en    nig-abrig-idg-ga*-mu 

an-gim  mu-ne-su-ud 


35 da-gub-ba   Dl-a-ma-a-na 

lu-ba-ni-ii 

36 da-du-u    ntt-iug-mA-a?-    ud- 

im-nta-ni-til 

37 «e-J(i   I  M-an-ia-dm-mi  gim 

38 ta-e-a  sig  uri-{ki)-ma-lu  tu- 

n  u-um-ma-n  igin* 


28.  The  faithful  shepherd,  wailing 

and  lament  in  fear 

29.  As  for  me  whatsoever  I  have 

made, 

30.  To  the  gods  verily  I  erected. 

and 

31.  To  the  Anunnaki   whom  with 

riches  I  have  glorified, 

32.  A  bed  of  lazuli  whose  couch' 

with  a  precious  work  I  con- 
structed, 

33.  Like    heaven    and    earth    con- 

structed, with  a  covering  like 
the  stars  I  made  bright. 

34.  A. . .  .am    I,    whatsoever    (was 

revealed  to  me)  by  favorable 
omen  this  I  made  beautiful 
like  heaven  for  them. 


37. 
38. 


'Cf.  Gud.  Cyl.  B.  9.8:    17.  I. 

'dag,  the  part  of  the  bed  on  which  the  sleeper  reposed;  see  Sum,  Or.  108  dag  2. 
'For  K=lud,  iud=mal3^u.  cf.  the  gunufied  form  of  this  sign  with  values  suj,  II  R,  26a 
1 5  and  !ub.  RA.  10,  79,  9.     All  these  roots  s«l.  iiuf,  fiuf.  sub,  lub  have  the  meaning  shine. 
*?OTabrig-Uf.  favorable  omen,  see  IV  Raw.  3^  No.  6  II  1;    King,  LIH..  61,  26. 

•Cf.  Obv.  I  34. 


y  Google 


136  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

59-  ?"'  gUiam-mu  mu-un-^-dm  39,  Of  my  faithful  wife  whom  !  had 

known,' 
40.  [iag?]  a-nir  vig-gig-ga-a  ud-mi-  40.  (Her)  heart  of  bitter  sorrows  1 

ni'ib-^al-^al-e  made  glad. 


Col.  V 


7 ii-ii-in-fu-Ta-? 

[lag?  a-njr]  nig-gig-ga-a  ud-mi- 
ni-ib-ial-ial-e 
. . .  Mg-ga-ni  bar-ta  ba-da-gub 
Idg-ga-ni   sag-ga-rta  li-bi-in- 


. .  na-ge  d-mag-a-ni  sag-gd-na 
li-be-in-gi-en 

.  ..en  ''dUim-Jir  KU-ta  nu-un- 
ri 
. .  nun-ki-ga-ge  ba-ra  ba-ra-ta- 
an-i 

. .  im-ma-ni-in-si-ig  enim   Jm- 
nu-mu-un-di-ni-ib-gi 
. .  imi-suT~ra  ba-ra-ab-sig  gil- 
iij  nu-mu-idi{?). 


8.  The  heart  of  bitter  sorrow  I 
made  glad. 

9 stood  aside. 

10 upon  his  head  not  did  he 


II his  mighty  arm  upon  his 

head  not  did  he  lay. 
12 the  lord  Sin not. 


...  .of  Eridu  caused  to  go  far 
away. 
. .  fixed  and  revoked  not.* 


Liturgical  Hymn  to  Dunci 
(tablet  at  the  university  of  Dublin) 


1 of  heaven,  the  mercifut(?). 

2.  Lord  who  makest  glad  the  land 
of  Sumer. 

3.  Who  causest  his  devastation  to 
befall  the  foreign  land, 

4.  Who      fearful      decrees 

speakest 

5.  Whom  Enlil  as  the  everlasting 

shepherd  of  the  Land   (did 
choose?] 

'  For  III  in  the  same  sense,  but  of  animals,  see  PBS.  X  pt,  1  p.  70,  17,  nu-ub-iu,  "he  knew 
•Cf.  Thuheau-Dahcin,  SAK„  ;z  n.  f. 


U  ana-ge        gi-gi 

en  kalama  gi-en-gi-ir-(ki)  dug-ga 

su-un  sii-un-na~ni  kur-ra  dib-dib- 
bi 
me  ni-te-na. . .  .dug 

^en-lil  sib  da-ri   kalam-ma.... 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON— SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


i?7 


6.  ''dun-gi  lugal  uri-ma  mt-en 

7.  igi-du^-bar-ra-na  gu-pd  ma-ni- 

in-de 

8.  en  ajag^  sd-bi-gatia -sig 

9.  lum ga me-en 

10.  jf ga  lu  ffl  bi me-en 

11.  sib ''nannar    me^    dam-^ar 

me-en 

12.  ettim  ''nin-Ul-14  kt-gar  idg-ga  ki- 

lar-ra  ma-ldg 

13.  i-il-la*  i{?)igi-u-ni-in-dug  gu  ii- 

?     ?-de-de 

14.  ud-bi    nam(?}-sir-ra    lugal(?)dA 


^dun-gi  me  ka-^ag-sat     uri-{ki) 
liib-bi-min 

''nin-iud-Ti^  nig-ma 

dingir-ri-e-ne   ni-DU md 

^mul-genntf  su^ui-a  KA 


19,  mu-ie-idl-!a  t^b-bi  ?  ?  -da 

20,  um-mi-a gi-mu-ne- 

21-  enim  nin-muf ,.ta 

22.  a-da-ge'  nim  bad-du  ma-al-?-tum 
mu-h-gar-gar-ri-eS 


6.  Oh  divine   Dungi  king  of  Ur 

thou  art. 

7.  When  he  turns  his  regard  he 

speaks  faithfully. 

8.  Holy  priest  who  pwace 

bestows. 

9 thou  art. 

10 thou  art. 

11.  Shepherd of  Nannar  thou 

art;    recorder thou  art. 

12.  By    the    command    of    Ninlil, 

pious  works  in  the  universe 
he  established.' 

13.  Oh    magnified    one   ibe   temple 

behold!  give  command! 

14.  On  that  day  melody  befitting  a 

fling 

15.  "Dungi  I  praise,  him  that  causes 

Ur  to  lepose. 

16.  Whom  Nintud 

17.  Who  the  gods 

18.  Whom  the  "god  of  the  steady 

star"  upon  a  foundation , 

19.  To cause  to  repose  in 

years  of  plenty. 

20.  The  army 

21.  By  the  command  which  my  lady, 

the  goddess (has  spoken), 

22.  Wailing  in  the  upper  land  far 

away they  caused . 


'  For  this  litle  see  also  Allotte  de  la  Fuve,  DP.  81  III;  Thuheau-Dancin,  RTC,  4} 
R«v.  3,  etc. 

'  Sic.     For  Pie-e.     For  ;  and  e-en  as  inflections  of  the  second  singular  see  RA.  IJ .  47. 

*  The  interpretation  of  this  line  is  uncertain.    Also  the  signs  Ug  and  ki  are  uncertain. 

'Cf.  i-i"i-Ifl-!flK  CT.  17,  13.  13. 

'  Probably  ra  emphatic. 

'  This  title  of  Ninurash  as  god  of  the  planet  Saturn  occurs  in  other  texts  only  in  the  late 
period;  umun  gmia,  i.  e..  bttu  kamanu,  PSBA.  190S.  80 1.  13:  ^gentta  is  a  regular  title  of  Saturn 
in  astronomical  tents  of  the  late  period,  Camby.  400  Rev.  41 ;   RA.  8,  57. 

'  For  the  root  ad,  wailing,  which  is  not  entered  in  my  vocabulary,  note  the  following  passages: 
itd-da  =  ina  riggim,  5BH.  loi  Rev.  6;  ad-mu  —  rigmi,  my  wail,  SBH.  75.  7:  muiu  ad-da-gf^ 
bllnissati,  lord  of  wailing,  Zimmern,  K-L.,  13  U  j;  muluad-du-gt,  IV  R.  II  aiy,  ad-du  —  nisiatu, 
IV  R.  iga  13;    BA.  V  630,  19.     mu-lu  ad-di  ad-di-ju  nam-mv,  Ni.  4596,  )t  in  this  volume. 


,,  Google 


IJO  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

2-^.  sig  iug-mal  lu  ah-e-bal ntlal         23.   In    the    lower    land    songs    of 

pacification  thou  didst  cause 
to  be  uttered 

24.  kur-nim-Iii  u~?-gal-gim gid-  24.  Unto    the    upper    land    like   a 

da  great. ...  he  approached. 

25.  igi^tm-ia  kalama  le-gim  dul-li  25,  From     the    upper    land    over 

ni-lal  Sumer  heneHcenily  a  shadow 

he  stretched. 

26.  kur  dan  bad-du-di  ag...  .ni-lal  26,  Upon  the  violent  foreign  land 

far  away he  stretched. 

27.  lul  iu-iu'-ag  kaskal ta-gub-         27.  The  doers  of  rebellion  from  the 

mal  ways he  caused  to  stand 

aside. 

28.  iw-?-d  ki-gir-gin-na-ge  28 

29.  sir-gid-da     teg     nam-lugat-     la  29.  With  a  long  song  befitting  royal 

power, 

30.  bad-du-mds  nig-bal-bal-e  ga-mu-  30 a  meditation  I  will  com- 

li-gar-gar-ra  pose  for  it. 

31.  nam-dup~iar-ra  nig-gi-gi-ju^  ga-  31.   In  writing  thy  laws'  I  will  set 

mu-U-ntd-aT-md-ar-lu  forth.' 

32.  ud  iar-iar-ra  gar-ra-bi-gdl  ma-  32.  When  the  writings  are  set  forth, 

an-Tu-a-m^  (?) 

33.  ^ul-lul-li-mal  dug-dug-gi-mal  33.  Gladness    causing,     prosperity 

causing. 

34.  li-ii    tU-'i^    LU. . . .  la-am    fa-         34 

am* 

35.  dM  iii-si  gii-ka-silim lil-Ia         35.  Theweapon ofsweetvoice 

36.  nig-d-n^-gi-a^      la-ba-gub-bu-ne-  36.  The    unopposed    which    is   not 

en-na-mu  restrained. 

37.  dug-gar  nu-kui-ii  M-al-i  me  37.  He  that  tirelessly  causes  anarchy 

to  depart,  thou  art. 

'  Sic!     !«  twice. 

'  Uncertain;  cf.  nig-gi-gi-na.  SAK,  72,  )8,  The  infleclion  !«  after  the  verb  mi-ar  indicates 
a  plural  object. 

*  Redactions  of  Sumerian  laws  exi sled  before  the  first  Semitic  dynasty  and  served  as  a  model 
for  the  great  Code  of  Hammurapi;  a  fragment  of  such  a  code  has  been  published  by  Professor 
Clay,  OLZ,  1914,  p.  i.     Se:  also  Ni.  4574  in  this  volume. 

*  ffl-aw  occurs  in  lines  38  and  56,  here  after  gi-gid(  =  maUlu).  flute.  Also  in  K-L,  200,  17, 
lul-baiai-a  ra-dug  {a-am  {ii-am,  the  word  occurs  in  connection  with  a  word  for  llute  {lig&).  {a- 
am  contains,  probably,  the  element  ;j,  second  per.  sing. 

'iflij  immaiant;   see  II  R.  3&1 17  and  SB  P.  86,  28. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


139 


38.  gi-gid  ja-am  la-am  ga-mu-ii-ma-  38. 

ar-m&-aT~iu 

39.  mu  dingir-lugal  sag-bi-iii       i-a  39. 

40.  ^en-lH  nig-d&g-ga-ni  iu-nu-bal'-  40. 

e-rte 

41.  mu    ^en-^u  uru   nam-kud-da-ni  41. 

luni'-bi  nu-giir-ra-[ni\ 

gain      nam-kud-du-ni      nig-gtg  42. 

sa^ar-ra-ka 

43.  mu   ^babbar   maikim*   dtngtr-ri- 

e-ne 

44.  nig-lul-li-du-mh   galu   ba-ra-ma-  44. 

ni-tK-gar 
sub'tnu  nig-nu-um-s  ig-s  ig-ga  45. 

dam^  ba-ra-ni-d&g 
''dun-gi   me   sd   ni-mal  dirig-ga  46. 

sir-ra  ma-ra-an-gdl 
aiag-ldg-ga-gim    ISg-lAg-ga-  md  47, 

gil-d&T  ki-gar:  sir-sab'-ba-mu  48. 

sib  me-nig-na-me      ^ag-iil-iil-Ia-  49. 

nam-lugal-f    sai-^id     nin-^e-ni-  50. 

.diig 

mu  nig-li-du-md  li-na ba-  5 1 , 

gdl-la 
lulba-lag-na        ge -en  52. 

li-du-md  a-da-du ge  da-ma-  53. 

al  ga-tum(?)ge~du 


On  thefiuie I  will  set  forth 

(these  matters). 
The  name  of  the  divine  king 

transcends  all, 
(The  name)  of  Enlil  whose  fixed 

decree^  is  not  transgressed. 
.  The  name  of  Sin  who  a  city 

fated,  whose  splendor  is  not 

to  be  supported. 
.  Whose  curse  the  unclean  fMrg«. 

.  The  name  of  Shamash  attendant 

of  the  gods. 
.  My  music  let  no  man  make. 

.  My  prayer  which  is  unequaled 

let  no  wife  utter. 
Divine  Dungi !     I in  song 

institute  for  thee, 
Who  as  one  clean  and  pious 

brings  about  purity. 
Instituting  cullure.     My  chief 

song. 
The  shepherd  who  fulfills  the 

decrees  as  many  as  there  be, 
Royal  power may  care  for 

faithfully. 
When  my  melodies  in  future 

days  are , 

May  the  musician  on  his  lyre 


May  my  melody  weeping. . 
. .  .dispel 


'  The  sign  has  one  superfluous  wedge  at  Ihe  end. 

*mg-diii-ia  =  adannu.  "fixed  time  in  which  things  occur." 

'lum  in  this  passage  has  clearly  the  same  meaning  as  the  cognate  lam. 

•  For  PA+DU  instead  of  PA+DU  gunufied.  %tt  BM,  gr-^-g,  279, 8,  In  CT.  6;  and  88-5-ia, 
7M  line  43,  in  CT.  4. 

*  This  form  of  the  sign  DAM  is  probably  peculiar  to  the  script  of  Larsa  where  this  tablet 
was  apparently  written. 

'  iat  >  sab  for  the  root  sat  '^  here  found  for  the  first  time.    Compare  SBP  96,  10  and  )}i, 
9;  also  Radau,  Miscel.  17,  13. 


,,  Google 


140  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

54.  sir-gid-da     teg     nam-lugal-    la         54.  in  a  long  song  befitting  royal 

power, 

55.  bad-du-mAi  nig-b<2l-bal       ie-im  55 a  meditation  let  be. 

56.  gi-gid  ja-am  ja-am  ie-im  56.  The  flute let  be. 


4566 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Ubit-Ishtar  (?)  or  Ishme-Dagan  (?) 

Ni.  4566  forms  the  upper  left  corner  of  a  large  three  column 
tablet  belonging  to  the  group  of  historical  hymns  to  deified 
emperors.  The  name  of  the  king  Lilazag  has  not  the  sign  for 
"god"  before  it  and  the  fragment  contains  no  reference  to  his 
deification.  Perhaps  this  particular  king  of  the  Isin  dynasty 
never  received  this  distinction.  The  name  itself  is  new  among 
royal  names  of  the  period  and  no  alternative  remains  but  to 
identify  him  with  one  of  the  unknown  sixteen  kings  of  the 
Isin  dynasty.  In  the  dynastic  list  Ni.  19797^  the  name  of  the 
fourteenth  king  has  remained  undeciphered  for  the  tablet  is 
badly  weather-worn  at  this  point.  Hilprecht's  copy  shows 
traces  of  a  name  containing  not  more  than  three  signs  and 
these  agree  admirably  with  lil-ajag-ga,  or  perhaps  ga  is  omitted. 
I  have  collated  the  line  again  and  find  the  reading  liP-a^ag 
possible  but  not  certain.  At  any  rate  this  name  offers  a  possible 
identification  and  since  the  fragment  obviously  reveals  a  hymn 
to  one  of  the  kings  of  Isin,  this  seems  to  be  a  solution  unless 
lil-ajag  be  taken  as  a  mere  epithet  of  the  king.  In  that  case 
the  fragment  does  not  contain  the  name  of  the  king. 

'  HiLPRECHT,  BE.  39  pi.  )0.  published  the  reverse  of  this  tablet  on  which  the  names  of  the 
sixteen  kings  of  Isin  stood.     Poebel  has  given  Ihe  entire  text  in  PBS.  V  pi.  iv, 

'The  first  sign  resembles  UR  more  ihan  LIL.  Both  Hilprecht  and  Poebel's  copies  are 
inexact.  |The  name  of  the  fourteenth  king  is  probably  Ur-azag,  since  this  name  occurs  in 
Ni.  IW54.] 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


141 


1.  Lil-ajag  ab  numun-i-i'  na-ajag- 
ga  mu-dug-ga  sd-a 


2.  iSb-baa-lu*lugalRU-TIG'lugal 

^i-Ug-l&g-gi 


3.  i-malga-sud   ert   hilr   '"lagin-na 
ni-in-lu-bU'-u.ni?) 


4.  kur-sud-sud  eibar  me-i-i  Ut-e  ka- 
iu-gdl 


5 ju  nun  iag-lal-sud  kalam- 

ma  X'  kur-kur-  ra 

6 a-^u-gal  sag-gig-ga  nam- 

eri-lar-ri 

7.  duntU'sag    dingir-ajag-ga    ki-el 

ama  ^ba-H 

8.  i  eri-ajag  {life  i  be-in-    gub 


9.  bara-^a-ku  be-in-        gar* 

10.  Si^ba-a 


1.  Lilazag,'  of  the  house  of  exalted 

seed,  the  holy  man,  named  by 
a  good  name. 

2.  Whose  heart  is. ... ;    the  king 

;  the  king  who  makes 

glad  the  soul. 

3.  "The  Temple  of  Wisdom"  in 

the  clean  city  with  lapis  lazuli 
he  made  splendid. 

4.  The  far  away  land  he  subdues, 

having  recounted  unto  them 
the  observance  of  laws  and 
decrees. 

5.  The ,    merciful    prince  of 

the    Land;     the of    the 

foreign  lands. 

6.  The    great of    the    dark 

headed  people;  who  declares 
the  fate  of  his  city. 

7.  First  born  son  of  the  holy  god- 

dess, the  woman,  mother  Bau. 

8.  As  to  a  temple  in  the  holy  city, 

the  clean  city,  a  temple  he 
founded. 

9.  A chapel  he  made. 

10.  Eight  temples  of  Bau 


Obv.  II  9  mentions  Hallab.  On  the  reverse  occurs  the 
goddess  Ama  of  Agade  for  whom  this  king  constructed  seven 
temples.     The  reference  in  Rev.  7  to  a  temple  of  the  Mul-mul 

'  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Libil-lshtar.  fifth  king  of  the  Isin  dynasty,  Zimmern,  KL. 
199,  4.  Cf.  Cst.  j)7S,  JO  in  BE.  X.X.XI,  numun  ma-ni-i-i.  "he  exalted  his  race."  See  alio 
Ni.  7184,  19. 

'  Or  if  (hese  syllables  are  simply  an  epithet  we  may  translate  "the  holy  wind,"  a  reference, 
to  the  divine  spirit  of  Ihe  deified  king. 

'Cf.  K.  L.  199  Rev.  '  i 

'  Title  ordinarily  applied  to  the  river  god,  •'id-iu-RU-TIG,  IV  R.  14  No.  a,  aa;  BL.  No.  46, 
8;   SBH-  rja,  40;   CT.  IV  jj  i).     See  also  BL  No.  69.  9. 

'The  sign  is  REC.  447  — SAI.  3752.  It  has  ordinarily  a  meaning  synonymous  with  "canai," 
but  here  the  sign  obviously  conveys  a  sense  synonymous  with  "shepherd,  guide,"  and  probably 
recurs  in  the  title  i<];-X, 

•  See  also  Hitloricat  and  Religious  Ttxts.  Cst.  1 575. 


,,  Google 


142  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

contains  the  earliest  mention  of  these  astronomical  deities. 
The  Semitic  translation  is  ildni  sihitti  or  the  seven  gods,  Zim- 
MERN,  Rt.  26  1 1 1  63 ;  in  astronomy  mul-mul  ordinarily  designates 
Taurus.  The  seven  gods  who  are  designated  by  the  words 
mul-mul  are  probably  of  astronomical  origin  and  originated 
in  a  religious  fancy  concerning  the  Pleiades.  They  appear 
as  seven  small  balls  or  irregular  little  figures  on  seal  cylinders 
from  the  earliest  period.  Note  for  example  Ward's  Seal 
Cylinders  oj  Western  Asia,  p.  132  No.  372,  a  seal  with  an  agri- 
cultural scene  and  in  the  upper  field  the  moon,  Venus  and  the 
Pleiades.  These  seven  balls  recur  in  the  glyptic  and  figured 
monuments  of  all  periods  and  seem  to  have  represented  the 
Igigi  or  heaven  spirits  whose  number  was  six  hundred.  The 
identification  with  the  Igigi  has  been  interred  from  the  corre- 
spondence between  the  symbols  and  the  divine  names  on  the 
rock  relief  at  Bavian,  see  Ward,  ibid,  yp.}  The  identification 
with  the  Igigi  has  been  defended  also  for  the  reason  that  they 
are  represented  by  the  symbol  dingir  V+II,  commonly  taken 
for  "god  7."  But  the  figure  7  is  never  written  in  this  way  and 
the  sign  really  means  laXgii+gii  or  5X(6o+6o)  =600.  There 
is  no  evidence  for  the  statement  that  the  igigi  were  seven  in 
number.  According  to  II  R.  25  A  69  and  39  No.  2  (Add.)  the 
Igigi  were  eight  in  number,^  hence  they  probably  are  confounded 
and  identified  with  the  Pleiades.  It  is,  therefore,  probable 
that  in  practice  mul-mul  really  represents  the  Igigi. 

'  HiNKE,  BE.  Ser.  D  Vol,  IV  p.  145,  was  inclined  lo  identify  these  seven  balls  with  the  seven 
planets,  a  theory  wholly  impossible.  Also  the  identification  wiih  Nergal  in  Frank,  Bildir 
p.  29  is  certainly  erroneous. 

•SeejEHSEN,  KB.  VI  587. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I43 

4563 

Liturgy  of  the  Cult  of  Ishme-Dacan 

The  remnants  of  Col.  I  refer  to  conquests  oT  the  king  who 
in  his  own  land  secured  obedience  (gu-ur-e  mh-mal,  1.  3)  and 
compelled  the  foreign  land  to  submit  (kur-ri  ka-Su-gdl,  1.  7). 
The  disobedient  he  crushed  {nu-Se-ga  SU-a,  1.  9)  and  one  line 
speaks  of  victories  (Su-sig-sig-ge-dam  15).  With  line  19  begins 
the  long  series  of  intercessions  to  various  gods  which  forms 
the  greater  part  of  the  liturgy. 

19.  ["Divine  Ishme-Da]gan  son  of  Dagan  I  am. 

20.  [May  the  god ]'  decree  me  prosperity. 

21.  [To  my  reign]  prosperous  years  may  he  announce." 

After  a  considerable  gap  in  our  fragment,  Col.  11  line  3 
begins  with  an  address  to  the  Moon-god.  Addresses  to  Nusku, 
Ninurash,  Shamash,  and  Innini  follow  and  this  series  of  inter- 
cessions ends  with  an  appeal  to  various  minor  gods. 

With  line  21  of  Rev.  1  begins  a  section  which,  if  I  under- 
stand correctly  its  obliterated  phrases,  contains  a  long  address 
to  the  divine  king  by  the  liturgists  and  choir  ;^  the  king  is 
referred  to  in  the  third  person  throughout.  Noticeable  among 
these  phrases  are  the  appeals  to  the  king  for  the  bestowal  of 
wealth  and  increase  upon  the  land.  iu-mu-un-peS-peS-e,  "may 
he  multiply;"  sd-dug  ge-ni-tah-ldb,  "the  regular  offerings  may 

he  double;"    ma   ka-bar-a-gim  ^e-ni-hal-hal,    "my 

like  a  pastor  may  he  store  up." 

Of  particular  interest  is  the  probable  reference  in  Rev.  II 
17  to  the  nine  children  of  Nin-KA-si.     This  goddess  is  entered 

'  The  first  intercession  probably  appealed  to  Enlil. 

'Note  especially  Rev.  U  lo.      .  .  .1  tugaUmi  alad  ii'm-lar-iar-ri,  " in  the  temple  of 

my  king  may  the  protecting  genius  make  abundant." 


,,  Google 


■  44  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

in  the  theological  list  CT.  24,  10,  24  among  the  inferior  deities 
of  the  court  of  Enlil,  as  in  the  abbreviated  list  I]  R.  59  Obv.  32 
and  SBP.  156,  46,  ^gai-tin-nam  nin-K A-si-ra,  where  hlin-KA-si 
is  identified  with  the  goddess  GaUinnam,^  goddess  of  the  vine. 
This  goddess  is  probably  identical  with  GeStin,  or  Geiiinanna, 
sister  of  Tammuz.  In  any  case  Nin-KA-si  is  a  vine  goddess, 
who  in  SBP.  156  appears  as  consort  of  Pa-te-en-dug,  lord  of 
sacrifices  (Sa  ni-ki-i),  and  under  the  original  title  Pa-geltin- 
dug{du)=mulu^  ne-sag-ga-ge(la  ni-ki-i)  the  same  god  is  entered 
in  the  official  list  immediately  before  Nin-K A-si,  CT.  24,  10, 
22,  but  here  his  consort  is  Sa-hil,  or  Su-^a^,  "she  who  causes 
to  burn,"  likewise  a  deity  that  presides  over  sacrifices.  Since 
Nin-KA-si  follows  immediately  upon  Sabil,  both  are  probably 
the  consort  of  PagelUndug  and  Sabil  is  but  another  name  for 
Nin-KA-si,  who  is  thus  a  vine  goddess  whose  fruit  is  offered 
in  sacrifice  as  well  as  the  goddess  that  presides  over  the  fires 
which  consume  the  sacrifice.  In  this  aspect  of  a  fire  goddess 
she  is  the  sister  of  Gibil  the  fire  god,  IV  R.  14  No.  2  Rev.  20. 
She  ordinarily  appears  as  a  vine  goddess,  however,  and  in  IV 
R.  14  No.  I,  26  is  identified  with  her  daughter  Siris,  whose 
name  became  a  loan-word  in  Semitic  for  an  intoxicating  liquor, 
and  Nin-KA-si  presides  over  the  mixing  bowl,  IV  R.  14  No.  1, 
28.  Her  nine  children  are:  (1)  SiriS;  (2)  SiriS-kaS,  a  special 
kind  of  liquor;  (5)  SiriS-kaS-gig,  "The  black  liquor  siriSkaS;" 
(4)  Me-guS,  "She  of  the  terrible  decrees,"  a  title  also  of  Isbtar 
hHii  ildni,  CT.  25,  30,  7,  referring  to  Ishtar  as  patroness  of 
government;    (5)  Me-a^ag,  "She  of  the  pure  decrees;"    (6)  Eme- 

>  Hardly  to  be  read  kurun-Hom.  although  G/I5-TIN  has  the  Semitic  value  kumn.  v.  SAI. 
3510. 

'  King's  copy  has  dumu.  i,  e.,  mar  niki,  but  il  is  probably  to  be  corrected  to  mala. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I45 

teg,  "She  of  seemly  tongue"  {li^an  simti);^  (7)  Kidurkaial, 
"She  of  the  abode  of  festivity,"  referring  probably  to  her  con- 
nection with  drinking  liquors;  (8)  Nusilig-ga;^  (9)  Ninmada, 
Var.  Ninmadim,  li  R.  59,  33.  Ninmada  is  the  original  form. 
She  appears  as  a  goddess  of  purificatory  rites,  Gud.  Cyi.  B.  4,  2 
and  Myhrman,  BP.  I  No.  4,  21. 

Of  these  nine  daughters  five  are  patronesses  of  liquors. 
Nin-KA-si,  as  we  have  seen,  is  an  epithet  oi  GaUinnam,  the 
vine  goddess,  in  SEP.  156,  46.  In  Ur-Bau's  Statue  Col.  VI  6 
nin-KA-a-si-a  is  used  as  an  epithet  of  Geitinanna.  The  element 
KA-si,  KA-a-si-a,  evidently  has  the  meaning  wine,  liquor, 
or  some  similar  meaning.  A  hymn  to  Nin-KA-si  is  published 
in  Zimmern's,  Kulilieder  No.  156.  (See  now  Prince,  AJSL, 
XXXIII  40-44.)  She  is  the  fourth  patron  of  humanity  in  the 
Epic  of  Paradise  and  her  father  is  Ea  supreme  patron  of  the 
arts,  ZiM.  KL,  156,  5. 

This  composition  has  passages  which  are  strikingly  similar 
to  many  in  Gudea's  inscriptions.  Its  author  evidently  knew 
the  literature  of  Gudea  extremely  well  and  one  is  impressed 
repeatedly  by  a  similarity  of  style.  Several  centuries,  perhaps 
a  millennium,  intervenes  between  Ishme-Dagan  and  Gudea, 
which  makes  the  resemblance  all  the  more  remarkable. 

'  So  I  would  interpret  ihis  ideogram;  one  cannot  refrain  from  comparing  IV  R.  14  No.  I 
34,  iat  luk-tak  dagar-ta  me-itg  taT^sinniltu  itptttu  ummu  la  ana  simMi  iakttat,  "The  skilful 
woman,  the  mother  who  is  sent  to  do  what  is  seemly,"  a  description  of  Nin-KA-si.  For 
da/al  >  dagar,  cf.  dagar-ra(  =  raplH).  CT.  ij.  10,  10;  ZtMMEkN,  K-L.  i;  I  21.  and  see  especially 
Liturgies,  p.  xx  0.  3. 

'  Cf.  ZiMMERN,  Sburpu  9,  56  and  RA.  9,  78.    Perhaps  k  pilltu. 


,,  Google 


[46  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

Obverse  II 
I.  nig-a-namu-si I.  Whatsoever  things  are  named 

3.  gii-pitug  imin-a  iu-gal  ia-mi-[ni-  2.  May  he  with  understanding  of 

ib-dii]  the  seven  (numbers)  grandly 

[adorn  me]. 

3.  **««-?»  dunai-iag  'en-lil-ilti-ge]  3.  Sin  first  born  son  of  Enlil, 

4.  gii-gu-ja  nam-lugal-la 4.  A  throne  of  royalty 

5.  bara  nam-en-na  sag-ga-iH 5.  In  a  chamber  of  ruling  loftily 

[may....] 

6.  wd-su-du-lii    gil-dur 6.  May  he  fashion  unto  far  away 

bi-in-iag  days  a  restless  scepter. 

7.  'nusku  sukkal  ^en-lil-ld-ge  7.  May  Nusku  the  messenger  of 

Enlil, 

8.  giiduTnam-lugal4aiu-md ia-ma-  8.  Into  my  hand  a  regal  scepter 

ni-gar  place. 

9.  i-kuT-ra  i-bi  ^a-ma-an-pad-pad  9.  In  Ekur  oracles  unto  me  may 

he  reveal. 

10.  ki-gub-buni-teg-ga-e-bi ia-ma-an-         10.  Wheresoever  I  go.  his  awe  may 

gar  he  lend  me. 

1 1 .  iag  *en-lil-l&  dagal-la-Am  ia-ie-         1 1 .  The  heart   of   Enlil   like   (the 

mi-gi-in^  heart  of)  a  mother  may  he 

make  faithful. 
i2. 'nin-urai  UT-sag  kalag-ga ''en-Ul-         12.  NinuraS,    the  valiant   hero  of 
l4-ge  Enlil. 

13,  'nu-nam-nir'    enim-pt4    ia-ma-         13.  The  divine  prince  of  valor  my 

ni-in-gub  commands   may   make   sure 

for  me. 

14,  ka-Hg-ga  ^ett'lil  ''nin-lil-U  md-         14.  A  favorable  word  to  Enlil  and 

a-ar  iu-mti-na-ab  Ninlil  for  me  may  he  speak. 

15,  nam-lugal-la    pal-mu    ie-ne-in-         15.  With  royal  power  may  he  cause 

dirig  my  reign  to  be  surpassing. 

'  Ui-gi-in,  1  would  compare  with  tam-[i«  in  iar^i  tam-gin-dl,  "to  encourage  his  soul,"  SBP. 
Jl8,  4  (instead  of  the  reading  ug-gi  there  given).  iam  =  ktnu,  CT.  I3,  6,  46  and  ta  has  the  mean- 
ing kaUu,  "form,"  probably  from  the  same  root.  Also  gin  has  the  meaning  Mnu.  ia{m)-tin 
is  probably  one  of  those  intensive!  made  by  compounding  two  roots  of  similar  meaning,  a^ 
mal-gar.  iui-rig  (IV  R.  i6j  62),  iui-™. 

'  Variant  of  ^tiun-nam-nir  and  ordinarily  an  epithet  of  Erlil,  CT.  14,  5,  43;  frequently  of 
A!ur,  V  R.  },  jj;  KTA,  14.  aj;  of  Shamash.  ZA.  IV  245.  g.  In  this  passage  it  refers  to  Ninural 
U  in  BA.  V  644,  5. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


147 


16.  nam-en-na   ma-e   ie-im-mi-?-en 

DA(4)-tai-mu  ie-e 

17.  i-kuT-ra  iu-iu-mu-da-gdl-gdP 

18.  maikim  nam-lugal-^nul  ie-e 

19.  iii-KU-Ug-ga  kur-kur  gam-gam-e 
30.  da-mai    iwji-da-mu   iette-m-si 

21.  ^babbar  nig-si-sd  ka~gi-na  ka-mi 

ia-ma'tti-in'gar 

22.  sd'-iar-ni   ka-dl-bar  kalam-e   it- 

%&-e 

23.  nig'gi-na  sag-ga-iH  Ug 

24.  ji-da-luk   ui~ht-^*    erini'du   ia~ 

lam-me 

25.  iei-ge  iei-ra  nig-gi-na-sd 

a-a-ra 

26.  SAL+KU  gal-ra  ka-du^-na  nu- 

sd  ama-ra  IM-SU-NE 


27,  si-ig-ga   kalig'ga-ra   nu-mal-mal 
gain 


16.  With    lordship   may   he  cause 

me  to  be ;    my  helper 

may  he  be. 

17.  In  Ekur  may  he  take  me  by  the 

hand. 

18.  The  protecting  genius  of  my 

royalty  may  he  be. 

19.  With  a   valiant   weapon   sub- 

duing the  foreign  lands, 

20.  A  mighty  arm,  may  he  fill  my 

faithful  hand. 

21.  May  the  Sun-god  place  justiceand 

righteousness  in  my  mouth; 

22.  The  judge,  giver  of  decision, 

who  directs  the  Land; 

23.  Who  makes  justice  exceedingly 

good. 

24.  The  transgressor{P)  he  pardons, 

the  wicked  he  destroys. 

25.  To  justify  brother  with  brother 

to  the  father 

26.  Not  to  justify  the  slander(?) 

of  a  sister  against  the  elder 
(brother)  to  a  mother,  courage 
be  ensures. 

27.  Not  to  place  the  weak  at  the 

disposal  of  the  strong  a  man 


d-tuk  nig-'iag-ga-na  nu  ag  galu 
galu  iab-nu-gar 


2.  nig-erim    nig~d-^ig-ga*    ^a-lam-e 
nig'si-sd  mjt-m^* 


I.  That  the  rich  man  may  not  do 
whatsoever  is  in  his  heart, 
that  one  man  to  another  do 
not  anything  disgraceful, 
2.  Wickedness  and  hostility  he 
destroyed  justice  he  insti- 
tuted. 


■See  F.  Thureau-Dancin,  SAK.  108,  XVIII  17. 

•Variant  of  u1'li&-e=padil. 

■Cf.  RA.  9.  113  I  ]),  nad  NoKveUtsFouHUsdtTtUo.  p.  214  U  7. 

*  mi-tn4  is  an  inteiuive  formation  from  mi—bani. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


3.  'bahbar  dumu''nin-gal-e  tud-da-a 

ga-la-ba'-ma  ge-ni-in-gar 

4.  ^innini  nin  an-kt-ge-a 

5.  nitadam  ketiag-ni-iii  ge-en-pad- 

di  me-en 

6.  wJr-    gin-na-mA  la?'la?  gu-mu- 

h-in-ag 

7.  igi  nam-til-la  ka-jal  gu-tnu-U-in- 

bar 

8.  sag-di  Hg-ga-ni  ma-a-iii  ^u-mu-U- 

in-iig 

9.  "'nad  gi-in-na   ie-bi-in-gin(,eny 

10.  gi-pdr-ra  ud-sad-sud-mal-ma, 

1 1 .  nam-en  nam-lugal-da  tab-e-a-mct 

12.  i-an-na-ka  mui-nu'tum-mu-ma 


3.  May  the  Sun-god,  son  whom 

Ningal     bore,     my     portion 
create. 

4.  He    whom    Innini,    queen    of 

heaven  and  earth, 

5.  As    her    beloved    spouse    has 

chosen,  1  am. 

6.  For  my luxury  may  she 

create. 

7.  With  a  joyous  eye  of  life  may 

she  look  upon  me. 

8.  Her  blazing  form  upon  me  may 

she  cause  to  shine.* 

9.  May   she  establish   for   me  a 

couch  secure. 

10.  In  the  mysterious  sanctuary  to 

create  me  length  of  days, 

1 1.  To  add  the  office  of  high  priest- 

hood unto  regal  power  for  me, 

12.  That  in  the  "House  of  Heaven" 

the  serpent  rob  me  not,* 


'  ialaba  occurs  in  business  documenis  of  this  period  in  the  sense  of  "properly  derived  from 
aninheriiance,"CHiERA.  PBS,  VIII  18.7;    15,  5  and  Poebel,  BE.  VI  56,  6. 

'  In  lines  4-8  Innini  is  described  as  the  consort  of  the  sun  god.  Ordinarily  the  consort  of 
Shamash  is  Aj5,  who  is  by  origin  perhaps  a  personification  of  the  sun's  light.  She  is  in  reality 
a  special  aspect  of  Innini  in  her  r;!ile  as  queen  of  heaven  and  a  light  gcnddess.  The  theologians 
of  the  late  period  identified  A)3  with  Innini-lshtar,  CT.  3;,  10,  i2-)3,  and  our  text  proves  that 
the  idea  belongs  10  the  classical  Sumerian  period.  On  the  whole  subject  of  Innini  as  a  goddess 
of  light  and  her  connection  with  the  sun  god,  see  Tammui  and  Isblar,  96  ff. 

'en  is  probably  a  phonetic  indication  after  the  sign  DU  to  read  gin  or  gcn^klnu. 

'This  reference  to  a  serpent  adversary  is  unusual  and  is  referred  to  but  once  in  other 
Sumerian  literature;  a  passage  in  Gudea  Cyl.  B  Col.  10  refers  to  a  serpent  who  is  prevented 
from  robbing  the  mother  of  Ningirsu  of  the  goats'  milk  by  which  she  feeds  the  "leading  goat." 
Here  the  serpent  is  the  traditional  adversary  of  the  prehistoric  earth  goddess,  represented  as 
a  patroness  of  goats  who  feeds  the  young  goat  Ningirsu.  The  tradition  of  the  serpent  adversary 
probably  reveals  itself  in  the  story  of  Gllgamish  from  whom  a  serpent  stole  the  plant  of  life, 
see  the  Epic  of  Gilgamish  XI  304,  The  same  tradition  has  found  its  way  into  Hebrew  legend, 
and  the  ancient  version  of  the  temptation  and  fall  of  man  in  Genesis  )  represents  the  serpent 
as  the  moral  adversary  who  brought  about  the  loss  of  immortality.  Evidently  the  tradition 
of  the  serpent,  incarnation  of  evil  and  all  hostility  to  mankind,  permeates  Sumero- Baby  Ionian 
religion  and  was  transmitted  to  the  Hebrews.  The  hostile  character  of  the  serpent  musi  tmt 
be  confused  with  the  beneficent  serpent  symbol  of  the  mother  goddesses  and  other  vegetation 
gods.  Serpent  worship,  which  forms  one  of  the  important  features  of  ancient  religion,  is  of  course 
based  on  this  latter  aspect  of  ophidian  tradition.  See  for  the  ophidian  worship,  Tammui  ""^ 
hbtar.  Chapter  III.     ISee  now  Ni.  7184  Rev.  ii.| 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 

ki-i4nug-iki-}ga  am-gim 


kuliab-(ki)   me-!4m-mu    dul-'lu- 

da 

enim-aiag  nu-k^r-ru-da-ni  ge-bi- 

in-d&g 
^en-ki  ^nin-ki  ^en-uP  'nin-uP 

''a-nun-na  en  nam-lar-ri-bi 

difigir  utug  nippur-{ki)  alad 
ikuT-ra-ge-ne 


19.  dingiT-gal-gal-e-n^    a    nam-mu- 

un-lar-Ti-ei-a' 

20.  ge-4nt^    umun-kuT-ru-ga*   ie-im- 

mi-in-dHb^i 

2 1 .  ^ii-me-^da-gan  dutnu  ''da-gan  me- 

en 

22.  ^en-lil  lugal  kur-kur-ra-ge 

23 ru        ur-ra-        ta 

24 lu-gi-e  ge-bi-in-pad-de 


I}.  That  in  the  land  of  Erech  hke  a 
wild  bull. 

14.  To  cover  Kullab  with  my  glory, 

15.  An    holy    command    which    is 

unchanged  may  she  utter. 

16.  May  Enki  and  Ninki,  Enu!  and 

Ninul, 

17.  The  Anunnaki,  lord(s)  who  de- 

cree fate, 

18.  The  divine  spirit  of  Nippur  and 

the    protecting    geniuses    of 
Ekur, 

19.  The  great  gods  who  determine 

oracles, 

20.  Crush  the  pride  of  the  hostile 

ruler. 

21.  Divine     Ishme-Dagan     son    of 

Dagan  thou  art. 

22.  May  Enlil  lord  of  the  lands 

23.  Who  in 

24 choose. 


'  The  sign  is  the  lellig  of  UR  and  is  to  be  identified  with  Br,  6964  where  the  sign  has  also 
the  r^ular  gunufication  at  ihe  left.  The  sign  either  ielUf  or  lel'sig  plus  the  gunudcatlon  has 
the  values  dul,  dun  "10  cover"  and  iifir  "prince."  For  this  sign  see  also  Zimmern,  KtiUliidtr, 
(99,  41  and  PoEBEL,  PBS.  V  115,  5.  See  also  Radau.  MUcel.  No.  j,  a?;  PSBA.  igcj,  278  ff. 
Christian,  WZKM.  1911,  143. 

'  ul  for  niuf,  see  SBP,  1  ;o,  7.  These  titles  of  Enlll  and  NInlil  refer  apparently  to  the  stars, 
a  sphere  wholly  foreign  to  the  powers  of  the  earth  gods.  Perhaps  this  Idea  is  based  upon  a 
tendency  towards  monotheism. 

*The  Igigi  are  probably  referred  to  here. 

*0n  this  mfleciion  of  the  subjunctive,  see  Jail  and  tbtd.  note  ). 

*  it-am  occurs  also  in  the  title  of  Enlil,  It-im-gi-na.  CT.  14,  a.  10;.     A 
iiH,  ian,  abundance,  suggests  Itself  and  the  reading  ie-a-an  may  be  preferable. 

'  (a,  indirect  construct  for  *a. 


,,  Google 


150 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


4584 

Fragment  of  a  Lamentation  on  the  Destruction  of  Ur 
Obverse 


1.  ud-ba    ud    uru-da    ba-da-an-gar 

uru-bi  ( ? )  [  ie-dm-du  ] 

2.  a-a  ^nannar  uru  dim-diil-duP-da 

ba-da-an-[gar] 

3.  uku-e    U-am-du 

4.  tid-ba  ud  kalam-da  ba-da-an-kdr 

uku-e    U-dm-dtt 

5.  uku-bi  tika-kud-da  nu-me-a  bar- 

ba  ba-e-si 

6.  bdd-bd  gii-nin^  kaskala  im-ma-an- 

gar-gar  uku-e  le-dm-du 


gir-gdl-la-ba  dd-a  im-ma- 

an-BAD 

.  .-a-ba  sag-bal-e  ba-ab-gar 


.hd  itn-ma-an-gar-gar . . 


1 .  At  that  time  the  spirit  of  wrath' 

upon  the  city  he  sent  and 
the  city  lamented. 

2.  Father  Nannar  upon  the  city 

of  master-workmen  sent  it, 

3.  and  the  people  lamented. 

4.  At  that  time  the  Word  hastened 

upon  the  Land,  and  the  people 
wailed. 

5.  Her  people  without  water  jars 

without  her  sit  in  humiliation. 

6.  Within*    her    reed    baskets    are 

thrown  in  the  ways  and  the 
people  lament. 

7 in  her  streets  the 

corpses 

8.  In    her an    usurper    exer- 

cised. 

9.  In  her. .  .corpses  were  placed. 


'  A  synonym  of  mim—amaiu.  "the  word."     See  SB  P.  98  n.  7. 

'  dim-dul-dil  is  probably  a  plural  (5«»i.  Or.  I114)  oF  dim-dul=dim-iul—TAR-)atllti,  Syl, 
6  284  and  note  also  dim-gul  gloss  on  M/t-MUK,  CT.  25,  4,  8.  The  original  word  appears  to 
have  been  dimgul=TAR-kultu,  and  later  dim-gal.  Br.  3759,  SAI.  1873,  SAK.  270.  The 
Assyriologists  usually  render  Ihe  loan-word  by  inrkullit.  Delitisch,  H.  W.,  303  and  Mitss- 
Arnolt,  Lexicon  3^9  or  larkuttu,  ibid,  i  [93.  TAR  may  have  the  value  dim  and  the  word  should 
be  t/dimgallu,  "cable?  of  a  ship,"  or  "mast?  of  a  ship,"  and  this  is  the  only  meaning  hitherto 
assigned  to  TAR-kullu.  The  word,  however,  tike  markasu  (see  RA.  i3  p.  8a)  has  also  the 
meaning,  master  workman,  leader,  chieftain.  Note  dim-gal  — markasK,  Syn.  of  ummdnu, 
"master  workmen,"  RA.  13  p.  8j,  and  Gudea,  Cyl,  A.  12,  1  r,  dim-gal-gal  ki-a  mi-ni-sig-sit. 
"The  master  workmen  placed  it  in  the  earth."  The  goddess  Cunura  is  dim-gul  kiiIiirH-Hiii  = 
TAR-kul-li  m&lim,  "leader  of  the  Land,"  SBP.  r6o,  13.  Ishtar  is  the  dim-gal.  "directress"  of 
Babylon,  SBH.  97.  65.  ""Ninurala  is  the  dimgul  ati-tia,  chieftain  of  heaven,  II  R.  57*  56 
and  dimgal  katam-ma,  "chieftain  of  the  Land,"  ibid.  59. 

'For  kHnin  =  kuninu.  kuninnu,  kutiinnSlu.  "a  reed  vessel"  usually  employed  for  mixed 
wines,  gi-nig-kas-iur-ra  =  (ianii)  kuninnatu,  Syn.  mam;i5,  vessel  for  mixed  wine,  CT.  14,47, 
BM.43,  339,  ij;  II  R.  22  No.  1  Rev,  8.  Syn.  iulukku,  basket.  ku-ni-Hu  in  a  list  of  synonyms 
for  pisannu,  vessel,  is  explained  by  pal-\lii-ii],  reed  basket,  K.  10452,  14  in  CT,  18,  20. 

*  For  bid-ba  contrasted  with  bar-ba,  cf.  bddJji  and  bar-bi,  BL.  p.  1 17,  10. 


,,  Google 


stephen  langdon — sumerian  liturgical  texts  ijl 

Reverse 

1.  urAud-di    am-    gul-e  i.  The  city  the  spirit  of  wrath 

destroyed. 

2.  gii-gf-gM'  ki-iul>-gii-da-kam  2.  The  interlude  of    the  strophe 

(is  as  follows) 
},  ama  ''nin-gal  uru-{ki)-m*  nu-^i-  3.  The   mother   Ningal    her  city 

iulh^a  inhabits  not. 

4.  bar-ta    ba-da-       du  4.  Without  she  wanders. 


4568 

Hymn  of  Samsuiluna  to  Statues  of  Leons  and  His  Own 
Statue 

This  hymn  to  the  statues  set  up  by  Samsuiluna  is  not 
complete  on  the  tablet  4568.  Another  tablet  in  the  same  col- 
lection, which  1  know  only  from  a  copy  placed  at  my  disposi- 
tion by  Dr.  Poebel,  has  the  whole  of  4568  on  its  obverse; 
the  reverse  continued  the  hymn  but  only  a  few  signs  are  pre- 
served. We  have,  therefore,  no  means  of  determining  the 
length  of  this  composition  unless  some  scribal  note  can  be 
made  out  on  the  reverse  ot  the  duplicate. 

This  hymn  is  particularly  interesting,  since  the  same  event 
is  mentioned  in  the  date  formula  of  the  sixth  year  of  Samsuiluna, 
which  is  most  fully  preserved  on  the  contracts,  Strassmaeer, 

'  For  til-ti'gal  =  mibiT  ia  lamari,  see  Zimmern,  Iltar  vnd  $altu.  p.  6.  In  all  the  known 
examples  of  this  liturgical  note  the  interlude  of  two  or  three  lines  is  separated  from  the  ki-liA-git 
by  lines.  Here  the  interlude  or  choral  jeflection  apparently  ends  the  liturgy,  which  is  contrary 
to  all  known  rules  of  liturgical  practice,  ki-ttib-gii,  the  ordinary  word  for  "strophe"  (ilrtt.  see 
Zimmern,  ibid.  p.  5),  is  followed  by  da  which  occurs  only  here.  The  word  is  often  shortened  to 
ki-iub.  and  ki-iii.  see  BL.  p.  xlv. 

'  The  city  Ur  is  meant  and  the  reference  to  an  usurper  in  Obv.  8  leads  us  to  suppose  that 
the  calamity  referred  to  is  none  other  than  the  invasion  of  the  Elamites  who  seized  Ibi-Sin.  last 
of  the  rulers  of  the  dynasty  of  Ur.  A  lamentation  on  this  event  was  published  in  my  Histotkal 
and  Rtligious  Texts  6-8;   according  to  that  text  Ibi-Sin  was  taken  captive  10  Flam. 


,,  Google 


152  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

54  and  62.     Short  variants  will  be  found  in  Poebel,  BE.  VI, 
p.  70,  to  which  add  Poebel,  No.  26. 

mu  Sa-am-su-i'lu-na  lugal-e  ^bahhar  ^marduk-e-ne- 
bi-da-'ge  nig-dim-dim-ma-bi  al-in-na-an-du-ui-dm-  alam 
sub-sub-be  alad-gushkin-dS-dS-bi~ta  e-habbar  igi  ''babbar- 
Su  e-sag-iP  {igi  ''marduk-Su)  ki-gub-ba-ne-ne  mi-ni-in- 
gi-na,  "Year  when  Samsuiluna  the  king,  whose  deeds 
Shamash  and  Marduk  have  extolled,  a  statue  in  an 
attitude  of  prayer  and  animal  statues  of  gold  upon 
their  foundations  in  Ebabbar  before  Shamash  and  in 
Esagila  before  Marduk  established." 

1.  sul-me  iui  uium'*-gal  nam-kal-a  1.  Terribleform*  governorof  valor, 

2.  lil-dui^-la    sag-di'-l&g-ga-na    im-  2.  Whose  brilliant  form  shines  up- 

ma-U-in-bar  on  all  living  things. 

5,  nam-idg-ga-ni-iii  la-la  na-an-U-^  3.  Because     of     his     beneficence 

in-ag  plenty  is  created. 

4.  alam-ii  a-ni-iii  dug-li  im-ma-ii-  4.  Because  of   his   radiant^  statue 

in-til^"  prosperity  is  made  complete. 

'  For  Ihis  peculiar  form  of  the  conjunclion  bi-da  or  bi-la  attached  to  the  plural  ending  i-ni. 
see  also  e-ni-bi-ta  in  the  date  formula  of  the  34th  year  of  Hammurapi.     ge  marks  the  subject. 

'  This  compound  verb  is  formed  from  the  root  al.  lofty,  and  the  intensive  suffix  dug  >  du; 
Hi  is  the  plural  inflection  and  dm  the  sign  of  a  dependent  phrase,  al  is  connected  with  il  —  el&. 
see  Sum.  Cr.  p.  202. 

'  See  Poebel:   Stbassmaier  has  apparently  NE.  i.  e.,  gil? 

'The  sign  uJhpi  is  expected  here  but  the  text  has  jir  clearly, 

'This  is  the  first  example  of  the  sign  SUfi  with  the  gunuficalion  at  the  left,  REC,  294"', 

'  Note  the  unusual  gunu  of  LAGAR=dul.  and  see  RA,  tj,  pt.  111  Biblioftaphu,  for  this  sign, 
til-dul^balat  nabntti:  for  dul  —  nabnilu,  see  Sum.  Gr.  p,  31 1,  The  sign  employed  here  has  prop- 
erly only  (he  value  du  (REC,  a))),  but  it  is  confused  with  dul.  REC,  177*", 

'  bunu  nanru.  v,  SAK,  214  f.  16.  The  scribes  themselves  appear  to  have  been  uncertain 
concerning  the  sign  di  for  which  they  frequently  write  ki;  di,  however,  is  the  original  and  correct 
reading  since  it  is  the  well-known  augment,  dug,  du,  da,  di.  Note  ifl^  =  ;iBiu  and  sag-di'^zimu. 
Also  sag-du-ia^banH,  begetler,  a  word  certainly  connected  with  bunu,  form.  See  Sum.  Cr, 
Jj ;;,  For  sag-di  see  also  Ni,  456)  Rev.  I  8,  The  scribes  appear  to  have  confused  sag-di  with 
sag-ki=piU»,  front, 

'  Here  infixed  !i  reproduces  a  causal  111,  a  rare  usage  of  this  infix,  see  Sum.  Cr.  p.  145  above, 
in  is  obviously  a  mere  euphonic  element, 

'The  sign  is  REC.  34  not  REC,  48  which  alone  has  the  values  11,  sa  (RA,  ro,  77,  40)=- 
Ji;,  sag-banH,  sSmu,  etc.  Bui  here  the  scribe  has  again  confused  his  signs,  A  reading  giii-a 
is  also  possible,  a  value  given  to  both  signs,  CT,  19,  )ift  j  and  11.  ga  17.  For  guii  =  baH<l, 
V,  CT,  34,  )i,  86=a5,  36,  2i,  etc. 

'"Cf,  dug-li  nu-ill-Ia,  "joy  he  completes  not,"  SBH.  toi,  ;o. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


'53 


5.  bal-a-ri-ni-lli      im-ma-an-U-gub 

6.  den}   ^al-la-bi  Sag-m-ma-ab-Hb- 

bi 

7.  fag-gii-bi  -  gi-a-na'     im-ma-ab- 

nigin-^ 
an  ukkin-lugal-ra  ka-mu-un-dar- 

dar-am^ 
u-mu-un  na-Hm-^u^  I'l-ba-dm  ki- 

gdl  dm dam 

ia-am-su-i-lu-na  iuba  si-a'  mdi- 

gii-i-di-kar-kam' 
igi-mu  gim-ba-ma  be-ium  du-ri- 

Iii  ti-is 
i-p-em*         ag-d^g-KA + N  £-'"11 

asilal  da-ra-ab-si 

kalama  gd'Ti-a^gUb-dar^'^-ma  mn- 

ra-    an-ag 
sa-am-su-i-lu-na      da"-g4l-ia-a- 

kam  kalam-idr-ra-en-e^* 


.  Over  his  transgressors  he  has 
been  established. 

.  Whose  precious  presence  ap- 
peases the  heart. 

.  At  whose  repentance  there  is 
forgiveness, 

.  Lofty  one  who  to  the  assembly 
of  kings  renders  decision. 

.  Lord  that  knows  fate obedi- 
ence. . . . 

.  Samsuiluna,  the  pure,  the  bril- 
liant,   the  seer. 

.  Myeyes arelifted(?) 

to  bestow  life  forever(?)' 

1    will   fill    thee 

with  rejoicing. 

.  The  land  to  obedience  1  will 
reduce  for  thee. 

.  Samsuiluna  thy  champion  am  I, 
who  enriches  the  land. 


*  For  Ihe  reading  den,  gtn,  see  SB  P.  13,  39. 

'  lag-f&-hi-gi-a,  literally  "the  returning  of  the  waters  to  the  bank," 
normal  conditions  of  a  canal.  The  literal  sense  occurs  in  Gudea,  Cyl.  A.  i,  ;.  The  figurative 
sense  appears  to  be  "the  return  of  the  affections  to  their  normal  state,"  to  repent.  This  meaning 
occurs  in  lag  dinti'-'i-ne  gb-bi-fi-a-im.  "the  hearts  of  Ihe  gods  returned  to  their  bank."  i.  e,, 
they  repented,  Cyl.  A.  j;,  ii. 

'  Literally  "(God)  is  made  compassionate  " 

*Cr.  Br.  6)1  pa  purruiu.     The  verb  is  a  variant  o!  i6i-4ar  =  dlnu,  v.  K.  4610  Rev.  17. 

'Cf.  SBP.  376.  I. 

'  See  note  on  line  4. 

'  Cf.  igi-kar-bari. 

'  Cf.  for  this  line,  Bilingual  of  Samsuiluna,  27-)  1 , 

'  For  idim.  wailing(?).     Note  ti-du  =  ^amSru,  a  synonym  in  line  14. 

"  This  sign  occurs  also  in  the  Berlin  Astrolab,  Hemerologie,  I.  17,  where  it  is  rendered  by 
"'Gibil.  fire.  Also  ^K/t  +  NE-'''Gihil.  Weidner,  Handbucb  B6,  4.  See  also  MVAG.  191). 
3  p.  71  I.  84.  In  K.  850)  Obv,  }  (-CT,  XI  18)  the  Sumerian  value  is  . . .  .aS-gud(?)^libbalu. 
anger.     See  below,  line  34. 

"  Variant  of  Gi-ur-a;   Mefssner.  SAI.  484. 

"Cf  nam-gib-dar  in  PBS.  V  1^  V  39.  In  tine  10  the  phrase  recurs;  ma  is  not  wholly 
certain.     The  sign  appears  to  be  Mkissner,  SAI.  3753. 

"Sic!     Readd-|4f. 

"  Var.  Idr-ra-da-ni,  being  the  suffixed  conjugation  to  indicate  a  relative  phrase.  The  form 
Mr-ra-in-t  is  the  gerundive  participle  in  the  status  rectus.     See  Sum.  Cr.  {no. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


15.  mu-ui-mis-idg-ga-ju       ni-nu-en 

nam-en-nu-un  mu-ag-e-en 

16.  ^ag  nam-lugal-la-iii^  mZ-M*  gub- 

bu-da-ni^ 

17.  kalama  nam-lugal-la-iii  nam-dug 

mu-un-kud 

18.  ur-gal  alad  alad    mu-ne-en-    sig 

19.  an-fa-w-ne      da*-gdl    ag-di 

20.  bal-a-ri  gii-ri  ^ub-dar-ag-di 


i  d^-ji-da      ba-an-da-gub 


22.  ^ttb-bu-ne-ne-a    sa-am-su-i-lu-na 

ba-gub 

23.  sil-gar-a{ag-gi-e-ne  ni-da-e-ne 

24.  li-du  dg-d&g-KA+NE-a  mur-un- 

uS-ne-ne 

25.  bal-a-ri  gii-ri  mu-un-ti-H-ne 

26.  me-en-ne   ga-ia-an   an-na   alad- 

Mg-ga-m^ 

27.  ildi^  il-la  sa-am-su-i-lu-na  me- 

en-ne-en 

28.  me-en-ii-en    bal-a-ri-xi-in^    gid- 

dUg-ge 


1$.  I  am  thy  strong  prince  the 
pious;  watchful  care  I  exer- 
cise. 

16.  Who  at  the  head  of  kingship 

joyously  has  been  placed. 

17.  For  the  kingship  of  the  Land 

with  a  good  fate  he  has  been 
destined.  ' 

18.  Lions  as  protecting  spirits  he 

dedicated. 

19.  Their  loftiness  to  make  fearful, 

20.  The  transgressors  to  reduce  to 

obedience, 

21.  Innini  with  a  true  arm  estab* 

lished. 

22.  At  their  left   Samsuiluna  has 

been  placed. 

23.  Their  holy  praise,  their  fear, 

24.  They 

25.  The  transgressor  in  obedience 

they  will  cause  to  live  (dwell). 

26.  They  are  the  propitious  spirits 

of  the  queen  of  heaven. 

27.  A    group    of    lions,    (Aject    of 

adoration  of  Samsuiluna,  are 
they. 

28.  Your  transgressors  ye  destroy. 


•The  Si 
•  Var.  K 


e  signs  in  Zim.  K.  L.  199  II  a 


n-lugal-la  di-lit,  to  adorn  the  kingship. 


'  Probably  for  d-gH. 

'  The  text  has  again  da  for  d. 

'See  Sum.  Or.  ir26. 

'Syl.  Ass.  Berlin,  unpublished,  renders  ICI-LAMCA-BU(ild»)  by  iliat  kalbt,  Iroupof  dogs. 
The  phrase  obviously  refen  to  the  gioup  of  lion-images  menlioned  in  line  18.  ilia  1  have  taken 
fori>i-i«a  =  BiIIt(i.     Forniiu  without  Ini,  d.  ailat  ntli-ka,  CT.  VI  iM  )3,  37. 

'  This  is  the  first  example  of  fin  as  the  possessive  suffix  of  the  ad  per.  pi.  Note  the  peculiar 
participial  conjugation  in  which  the  verb  ne  (esse)  is  separated  from  the  participle  gid-dUg'^ 
luisdbu. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS  I  55 

29.  i-ii-tmdg-dig-KA+NE-ala-ba-         29.  Song  and  praise  1  restrain  not. 

30.  pi-eUpi-li  ga-mu-ra-ab-iid  30.  Humiliation  1  will  recite  unto 

you. 
Edge,  iag-lal-l^  alam  mi-un  ki-tag-  Edge.  The  hymn  to  the  protecting* 

iag-i     nu-ma-al  statue(s)  which    has   (have) 

been  set  up  is  not  finished. 


Liturgy  to  Enlil,  Series  bdbbar-ri  babbar-ri-gim,  Ni.  497 

This  fragment  (originally  numbered  Khabaza  15-8,  1888) 
forms  the  top  of  VAT.  [334+1341  pubHshed  by  Zimmern, 
KL.  No.  i2.  The  obverse  of  497  completes  the  beginning 
of  KL.  12  obverse  1  and  II.  The  reverse  of  this  fragment 
completes  KL.  12  rev.  II  to  the  end.  It  also  contains  a  portion 
of  the  liturgical  note  which  ended  the  last  column.  KL.  16 
joins  the  reverse  on  the  right  and  contains  also  the  beginning 
of  a  few  lines  of  the  end  of  KL.  12  rev.  I.  This  series,  built  upon 
an  old  song,  bdbbar-ri  bdbbat-ri-gim  te-ga-bi  ^al,  resembles, 
both  in  title  and  literary  construction,  the  late  series  ^bahhar- 
gim  h-ia  of  which  we  have  the  second(?)*  tablet  in  Assyrian^ 

'  For  the  root  du=kalA,  to  restrain,  compare  on  the  one  hand  dii=iii'ii.  CT.  rg,  lib  34, 
and  on  the  other,  DU  =  ka}&.  Br.  4886,  SAI.  }3j2.  The  sign  DU  in  this  sense  was  read  pn 
by  me  id  Sum.  Gr.  116  on  the  basis  of  (i  — ik'b,  p-  ir;.  In  any  case  jiii  means  iiiifl,  v.  ZA.  10, 
197,  r6  Vtg  ti-sd  gidi-ba-^kuSur  libbi  likll,  "may  contentment  of  heart  abide,"  where  liklt  is  a 
syn.  of  (if;i;.  Note  also  Tiam-ka-gar  galu  galu-ra  in-na-gub-bi-ei,  "Man  against  man  restrains 
complaint."  Strassmaier,  U'arka  34.  16;  ba-an-gub-ba-ba.  it  is  restrained,  Zim,  K-L..  a6  Rev. 
Ill  3.  However,  dit  has  probably  this  sense  here  and  note dib.  dub,  to  confine,  seiie.  Sum.  Gr. 
ati9,aii. 

'  Cf.  Lilurgiis,  p.  1  n.  4. 

*  For  nun.  protector,  v.  CT.  16,  7,  a^i  nu-un-mi  ft-a.  "my  protector  may  h:  b:."  Also 
the  noun  formation  with  nin  >  in  >  en.  in  en-  nu-un  =  masartu. 

*  IV  R.  n  is  certainly  not  [he  first  tablet  of  this  series  as  I  supposed  in  SBP.  346.  If  this 
were  tablet  diw  its  first  line  should  agree  with  the  title  ''babbar-gim  i-ta.  But  its  first  line  is  the 
beginning  of  another  Enlil  song,  see  SBP.  338,  1. 

•IVR.  II. 


y  Google 


156  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — ^BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

and  Neo- Babylonian'  interlinear  versions  and  a  Neo- Babylonian 
version  of  the  fifth(?)  tablet.^  Col.  1  of  our  tablet  contains 
two  melodies.  Col.  M  consists  of  the  melody  ddmgara  hddakur 
duaka-ndggallu,  which  also  forms  Col.  1  of  tablet  two(?)  in  the 
allied  series  ''babbar-gim  e-ta.  The  fourth  melody  consists  of 
a  long  litany  filling  Cols.  1 1 1  obverse  and  Col.  !  reverse.  This 
melody  is  one  of  those  movements  based  upon  a  liturgical 
phrase  forming  the  opening  line,  which  is  repeated  after  the 
titles  of  all  the  important  gods  of  the  pantheon.  Unfortunately 
this  refrain  is  no  longer  preserved  here.  The  most  well-known 
"titular  litany"  is  that  used  in  the  fifth  tablet  of  the  weeping 
mother  series  SBP.  150-167.  Here  the  liturgical  phrase  is 
Sci-ab  u-mu-un  mu-un-tug-e-en-ne  ul-li-eS,  "The  heart  of  the 
lord  we  will  pacify  with  praise."  After  three  more  lines  which 
vary  this  motif, ^  the  litany  begins  a  long  list  of  titles  each  replac- 
ing the  word  umun  "lord"  by  the  name  or  title  of  a  deity.  A 
titular  litany  was  used  as  the  next  to  the  last  melody  in  KL. 
No.  8  and  KL.  No.  11,  but  here  also  the  liturgical  motifs  have 
been  broken  away.  At  the  top  of  Reverse  11  continuing  to 
the  end  of  Col.  Ill  began  the  intercessional  psalm  called  in 
the  late  liturgies  the  erSemttm.  Our  tablet,  therefore,  repre- 
sents one  of  the  few  known  examples  of  a  series  not  entirely 
compiled  from  older  songs,  but  having  a  creative  element. 
The  titular  litanies  and  the  intercessionals  were  creations  of 
the  liturgists  of  the  Isin  and  early  Babylonian  schools  who 
usually  constructed  these  series  by  simply  compiling  old  songs 
for  musical  and  religious  effect.     The  later  liturgies  generally 

■  SBH,  No.  )3.    See  SBP.  337-47. 

'SBH.  No.  39.     This  tablet  almost  certainly  belongs  to  the  scries  ^babbar^fim  i-ta. 

'See  Bab.  Ill  249. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I  57 

end  the  section  before  the  final  song  or  intercession  by  the 
rubric; 

sub-be  Se-ib  e  X  ki-de-en-g't-g't 
ki-iu-hi-im  balag  gii-de^ 

This  rubric  may  have  been  used  here  and  in  KL.  8  and 
i  [.  We  should  expect  it  at  the  end  of  Rev.  I.  It  is  just  pos- 
sible that  the  last  sign  on  KL.  i6  right  column  is  the  beginning 
of  the  word  sub,  in  which  case  we  have  this  rubric  already  in 
the  classical  period.  If  we  may  assume  that  this  advanced 
type  of  liturgy  already  possessed  the  complete  terminology 
of  the  late  period,  then  the  intercessional  should  be  called  an 
erhmma.  See  BL.  XXXVUl  and  SBP.  174,  53,  etc.^  Note 
especially  that  the  intercession  and  recessional  of  the  late 
series  to  Enlil,  which  so  closely  resembles  the  last  melody  here, 
also  ends  in  this  way,  BL.  p.  51.  At  any  rate  our  tablet  does 
not  give  the  name  of  the  series  at  the  end  as  do  the  colophons 
of  all  the  late  series,  so  we  may  infer  that  this  scribal  method 
had  not  been  adopted  in  the  early  period.' 


Nf.  497-1- VAT.  1334,  ETC. 

1.  babbar-ri  babbar-ri-gim  U-ga-bi-  1.  Like  the  sun,  like  the  sun  his 

lal*  approach  illuminates. 

2.  mi-Ti-mi-Tt-gitn  te-ga-bi-jal  2.  Like    lightning    his    approach 

illuminates. 

'SeeBL.  XLV. 

*BL.  p.  la),  9:  SBP.  195,  71. 

'ZtMMERN.  KL.  X  introduclion  to  No.  I3  on  the  basis'of  a  copy  by  Radau,  has  already 
discovered  the  connection  between  497  and  VAT.  i}54. 

'According  to  IV  Raw.  \i,  b  ;o,  a  similar  series  to  Enlil  was  known  as  ^babbar-gim  i-ta. 
"Arise  like  the  Sun-god."  Such  also  was  the  title  employed  for  this  series  by  the  catalogues 
of  series  in  the  Neo- Baby  Ionian  period,  IV  R.  5)  I  5  "^babbar-gim-i-ma.  and  the  old  nUmnta 
from  which  the  series  arose  has  the  same  title  (^babbar-gim-i-ta)  in  the  great  catalogue  III  j6. 
A  small  catalogue  published  by  Luckenbill  in  AJSL.  Vol.  36,  has  in  line  8  this  title  in  the 


,,  Google 


158 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


3.  UD'  e-lum-e  mu-un'^al-a-ri^ 

4.  UD^  ''mu-ul-lil-U  mu-un-jal-a-ri 

5.  am-e  urii  e-en-jal-a-ri 

6.  ''mu-ul-lil-U  urU-na  e-en-ial-a-ri 

7.  {ie-ib\  nibru-{ki)-na  e-en-jal-a-ri 

8.  [h-ib  i  ]-kur-ra'ka  e-en-^al-a-rt 

9.  [U-ib    i    -]gal'li^  e-en-jal-a-ri 

10.  [ie-ib  iimbir-]ki'ta  e-en-jal-a-ri 

1 1 .  ie-ib  i-b^r-ra  e-en-ial-a-ri 

12.  urA*  ''anunifum-rm^  e-en-jal-a-ri 

13.  ie-ib  ul-tnai-a-ta  e-en-iaUa-ri 

14.  ie-ib  Hn-1ir-{ki)-ta  e-en^iol-a-ri 
1$.  le-ib  sag-il-la  e-en-ial-a-ri 

16.  ud  m^i  lil-e        ud  gin  til-^ 


3.  Babbar  the  exalted  illuminates. 

4.  Babbar-EtM  illuminates. 

5.  The  bull  the  city  illuminates. 

6.  Enlil  his  city  illuminates. 

7.  The  brick-walls  of, Nippur  he 

illuminates. 

8.  [The   brick-walls]  of   Ekur  he 

illuminates. 

9.  The  brick-walls  of  the  palace  he 

illuminates. 

10.  On  the  brick-walls  of  Sippar  he 

shines. 

11.  The  brick-walls  of  Ebarra  he 

illuminates. 

12.  The  city  of  Anunit  he  illumi- 

nates. 

13.  On  the  brick-walls  of  Ulmal  he 

shines. 

14.  On  Babylon  he  shines. 

15.  The  brick-walls  of  Sagilla  he 

illuminates. 

16.  Spirit  that  brings  the  youth  to 

extremity;   spirit  that  brings 
the  maid  to  extremity. 


form  ''babbar-gm  ud-da-im-ta.  The  same  series  appears  in  the  catalogue  IV  R.  j)  I  35  with 
the  addition  of  bar-&  and  this  occurs  also  at  the  end  of  K.  J164,  see  SBP.  337.  [This  term 
bar-i  occurs  as  yet  outside  the  catalogue  I  34-39  only  on  K.  3364  and  seems  to  indicate  that 
a  well-known  series  has  been  rearranged.]  The  titles  of  series  are  invariably  identical  with  their 
first  lines.  The  idea  in  the  title  of  our  liturgy  seems  to  be  nearly  identical  with  the  title  of  the 
other  Enlil  liturgy  ^babbar-gm  i-Ui. 

'  The  restoration  [dingir]-babbar  which  would  make  "God  Shamash,"  a  title  of  Enlil  does 
seem  probable.  Enlil  is  obviously  connected  with  light  in  these  lines  and  his  father-mother 
names  tn-ul,  nin-ui,  en-mul,  nin-mul  connected  him  with  the  stars  probably  as  the  son  of  Anu. 
Note  also  th;  N.  Pr,  "Samai-'^  Enlil,  "Shamash  is  Enlil,"  in  an  unpublished  text. 

•  For  the  emphatic  verbal  ending  a-ri  see  BL,  107  and  SBP.  10.  ro-12, 

.  *  This  restoration  is  not  justified  by  the  parallel  passages  for  the  names  of  secular  buildings 
do  not  occur  in  liturgies.     The  tgalhi  or  ikaUu,  "palace"  al  Nippur  recurs  frequently  in  the 
documents  encavaled  there,  see  Expoiilory  Tima  XX  457. 
'  So  traces  by  Zimmern,  KL.  No.  la  I  3. 

•  EulmaS  was  the  temple  of  Anunit  in  Sippar-Anunil  or  Agade,  ; 
gS  f.     It  is.  therefore,  probable  that  i-itun  renders  here  the  Semitic  nai 

•  Here  begins  a  passage  to  the  Word  or  Spirit  of  Wrath  which  o 


^e  TamntHj  and  Isbtar, 
t  also  in  SBH.  9$, 


19  ff."SBP.  187,  19  ff.  where  il  forms  part  of  the  second  tablet  of  a  weeping  mother  series. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON— SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 

17.  udiitr  gul-e    udamdi     sir-     n 


159 


18.  tug-aiag-di  ud  Hb-ba  nu-pad-di- 

da-ri' 

19.  lur  al-gul-guUe  amal  sir-sir-ri 

20.  dg-ii-em        mai-ba     mu-da-ab- 

21.  mAl-an-na  lal-gui^  mil-bi  U-im- 

U 

22.  gln-an-nt^  lal-gub  gin-bi  U-dm- 

U 

23.  [gii-vus  gal-gal-]^  gu-Ti-*[ut-dm- 

nu] 

24.  [ud-du  dii-dit-]dam  iu-H  [al-ma- 

ma] 

25.  [e-ne-tm  *enu-ul-Ul-li  bul-bul-dm 

''i-di  nu-bar-bar-]ri 
26. 


26. 


Spirit  that  destroys  the  stalls; 
spirit  that  desolates  the  folds. 

.  Possessorofuiinfom,  spirit  whose 
intentions  are  not  discerned. 

.  The  stall  it  destroys;  the  sheep- 
fold  it  desolates. 

.  Small  ^^'i  great  it  slays. 

.  Upon  the  youth  it  arrives  and 

that  youth  wails  aloud. 
.  Upon  the  maid  it  arrives  and 

that  maiden  wails  aloud. 
.  The  great  tK«5a-trees  it  sweeps 

away. 
.  Spirit  that  reduces  all  things 

to  obedience. 
.  The  word  of  Enlil  rushes  forth 

and  eye  beholds  it  not. 


27 NE  27 

28.  |.  ."mu-ul-lil-li.  ..]NE  28 

29.  [ii-mu-]un-e        [kur-kur-ra^ . ...  29.  The  lord  of  the  lands 

..I 

30.  [ii-tnu-\un  ditg-ga-l^id-da ]  30.  Lord  of  the  faithful  word 

3 1 .  [a-a  ka-nag-ga ]  31.  The  father  of  the  Land .... 

32.  [sib  sag-gig-ga. . .]  32.  The  shepherd  of  the  dark-headed 

people. . . 

'  Var,  has  another  emphatic  particle  nam;  Jj  postfised  passive  particle. 

'  Var.  mu-dtB-da-ab-ii-gi. 

'  Var.  iHiil-d-[H<i|  nam-mi-gub. 

'  Var,  e- 

'  Var.  g&'gHr-ru.      For  gar.  gurgur,  gugur.  to  sweep  away, 

'These  signs  correspond  to  KL.  12  I  16.     Here  the  tablet 
the  first  melody  from  the  second.     Line  17  probably  contained 
was  used  here,  then  it  represents  the  first  line  of  some  melody, 
here  seems  evident  from  the  fact  that  line  25  Is  the  end  of  a  melody 
and  also  SBP.  40,  35      Zlmmehn.  KL.  X,  stales  that  KL.  No,  a  I,  which 
lines  ending  a-ri,  is  a  duplicate  of  the  end  of  this  column,  but  this  is  not  probable. 

'  Here  stood  the  first  syllable  of  the  verb  form  at  the  end  of  lines  17-8;  the  verb  ended 
in  dl  or  ne.  or  bi.  This  syllable  followed  the  seven  names  of  Enlil  as  an  abbreviation:  cf.  for 
this  form  of  melody  SBP.  102,  113.  120:   BL.  tii,  etc. 


;  5uiH.  Gr.  IJ9  gur  r. 
tainly  had  a  line  to  separate 
interlude,  or.  if  no  interlude 
That  the  first  melody  ended 
SBH.95,  J7 
:  the  ends  of 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


33.  [i-di-dU  ni-te-na ] 

34.  \am  eritt'Tia  sd-sd. . .] 


3;.  [U-lul'la  d&r-dur. . . .] 


Here  followed  about  five  lines 
concluding  the  melody  and  the  end 
of  the  column. 


33.  He  of  self-created  vision  — 

34.  The  hero  who  directs  his  host 


35.  He  that  quiets  the  strength  of 
rebellion . . . 


Col.  II 


1,  dam-ga*-ra  ba-da-[k^r  du~a  ka- 

nag-gd  al-lA] 

2,  urii-ta  dam-ga'-ra  [ba-da'kir  dS- 

a  ka-nag-gd  al-l6] 

3,  ■mu-lu-siT-ra*H[nibTU-{ki--)ia  bd\ 


4.  le-ib  i-kuT~ra-fa  [ie«-iir*  i-nam- 

ti-la^  ba] 

5.  ie-ib  ¥•  imbiT-{ki-)lfa  it  i-bar-ra 

ba-        da-    Mr] 

6.  le-ib  titv-tiT-{ki)-ha-[ta  i-sag-U-Ia 

ba 

7.  urii-ia  it-mu-un-bi  [na-dm-ba-da- 

an-iar] 

8.  ga-ia-an-bi  gi-gi-tf  {ba-da-an-iui] 

9.  urii  ^-mu-un^-[bi  li  li-bi-in-tar- 

ra-hi 


1.  The  shepherd  is  estranged,  all 

the  Land  is  terrorized. 

2.  Against  the  city  the  shepherd 

is  estranged,  all  the  Land  is 
terrorized. 

3.  The  master  of  threnody  against 

the    abodes    of    Nippur    is 
estranged. 

4.  Against  the  brick-walls  of  Ekur, 

of  Kenur  and  Enamtila  he  is 
estranged. 

5.  Against  the  brick-walls  of  Sippar 

and  the  abode  Ebarra  he  is 
estranged. 

6.  Against  the  brick-walls  of  Tintir 

and  Esagila,  etc. 

7.  Against  the  city  whose  lord  has 

cursed  it. 

8.  Its  mistress' sits  in  misery. 

9.  The  city,  whose  lord  no  longer 

guides  its  destiny. 


'Var.  SBP.  3^8,  1  kar. 

'  Ml  firbi,  here  a  title  of  Enlil  at  the  one  who  caused  the  lamentations  of  Nippur.    The 
ic  title  is  applied  to  Gula  in  KL.  i;  II  7. 
'Chapel  of  Ninlil  in  Ekur, 

*  Chapel  of  Enlil  in  Ekur. 

*  Sic!  an  error  of  dittography. 
•Var.(fMf(-*.. 

'  Ninlil. 

'Text  e-m  which  is  probably  erroneous. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


l6l 


it-mu-un-e  '[mti-ul-lil-li  lil-la-di 

tu-ra-hiy 
mulu  er-ra-ge  er  mtt-ni-ib-Ut-Ul 
mulu  ad-da-gg    ad-[du  mu-ni-ib- 

gar] 
mu-dUl-^di         gif-gir-^mu-ni-jb- 
[dUil] 
sib-bS  gi-er*  mu-ni-ib-ne^ 

gudu  git-asilal-ldf  nu-mn-ni-ib-be 

gala-e'  a  lag-pt  nu-mu-ni-ib'bi^ 

gudurhi  dug-li-da*  ba~ra-  i 

en-hi  mi-pir-"'la     ba-  ra-        i 

u-mur-un-bi  nu-mu-un-til  ga-ia- 

[an-]bi  nu-mu-un-til 
u-mu-un  dim-^hna  kur-iH     ba- 

{ga-]Ia-[an]-bi'^  dtm-ma"  kur-iu 


10.  Which  the  lord  Enlil  surrendered 

to  the  winds. 

1 1 .  The  mourner  mourns. 

12.  The  wailer  beats  himself. 

13.  The  herdsman  hastens  in  dis- 

tress. 

14.  The  shepherd  sits  down  to  play 

the  reed  of  weeping. 

15.  The  anointer  commands  no  more 

the  atonement. 

16.  The  psalmist  commands  no  more 

the  "How  long  thy  heartP" 

17.  The  anointer  departs  from  his 

riches. 

18.  Her  high-priest  from  the  dark 

chamber"  has  gone  forth." 

19.  Her  sovereign  remains  not;  her 

queen  remains  not. 
30.  The  lord  cried  aloud  and  rode 

to  the  mountains. 
21.  Her  queen  cried  aloud  and  rode 

to  the  mountains. 


■Here  begins  KL.  la  II  i-SBP.  338.  ig. 

*mudul<mudur  =  battif,  staff.  Sum.  Gr.  aag.  Here  used  also  for  shepherd.  Thij  word 
goes  back  to  mH'iur=ClS-BU=intidii!u,  to^iiu,  maUu,  fiilali,  all  words  for  pole,  baton, 
■taff,  Voc.  Berlin,  3559,  Col.  IV  (unpublished).  The  variant  has  the  ordinary  word  for 
knd,muJu.   cf.SBP.  338.35;  66.16;   SBH.  77,  3*. 

*Var.  gir-glr;  (he  root  is  fir  (i).  hasten,  be  nervous,  gaUUti;  this  fixes  also  the  original 
tense  of  iipv,  tread,  hasten. 

*Var.*r-M. 

•Var,  gudu-bi  aiilal-U^paiiisu  duppir,  v.  Frank,  Riligion,  64  n.  147. 

'Orlafdr,  laiar,  seeBL.  XlXf. 

•  Var.  it. 

•Var.  fa. 

"Var.  for 

"  gipam  usually  indicates  a  stage  of  the  figurral.     See  RA.  1 1,  109. 

"  Here  the  later  version  has  an  insertion  concerning  the  psalmist,  v.  SBP.  340,  j?. 

"  Var.  idim-ma-ra  (sic^). 

"Var.  a. 

"Here  begins  KL.  33  II. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


22,  ka-a^  kun-bi  mt-ni-ih-Ur-iir-e^ 

23,  dar-gu-^e  gu-il-la  im-la-di-di-e* 

24,  iib-bi  lil-la-dm  bar-bi  lil-la-dm 

25,  iSb-bi    si-g<^  ni-gul-gul-e 

26,  iSb-bi  mu-lu  Jir-ra'  mulu  im-ta- 


27.  mar{?)  -  mag-bi"' ki-^^ba  i-ni-gid- 
da 

28 mu  ma^-bi  i-ra  in-dib 

29 an-gu-ab-bi  ba-gaj-gaj 

30 ba 

This  melody  must  have  continued 
for  at  least  ten  lines.  At  the  end  of 
IV  Raw.  11  Col.  I  a  break  of  at 
least  twelve  Sumerian  lines  must  be 
assumed  if  the  melody  ended  at  the 
bottom.  Also  at  the  end  of  SBH. 
62  a  break  of  similar  length  must  be 
conjectured. 


22.  The  fox's  tail  bristled. 

23.  The  many  colored  bird  shrieked 

aloud. 

24.  Within    her    is    the    whistling 

wind;     without    her    is    the 
whistling  wind.' 

25.  Her  interior   by    the   wind    is 

made  desolate.' 

26.  Within  her  the  master  of  thren- 

ody and  weeping  has  caused 
men  to  go  forth. 

27.  Her  treasure  house  from  its  place 

has  been  seized. 

28.  Her has  been  taken. 

29.  Her has  been  demolished. 


(»f 


'  For  this  reading  of  NAR-A,  s 
'SBP.  240,  45  ri;   SBH.  6j,  1 

ra). 


and  ^ib  3i 


,  Reporii  loj  Rev.  9. 
ir-iir-ra.     On  Ihis  passage  si 


54 


11  15,  33  II  3  and  SBH.  63, 13  haven;  on  the  other  hand,  IV  R.  ria  47  and  Nip. 
4;6i  I  [4  have  ^  which  is  obviously  the  true  reading.     See  also  SBH.  91&  it. 

^Wat.  di-de-i-     See  also  SBH.  92*11. 

'Cf.  SBH.92fr6, 

'So  also  KL.  )3  II  5:  SBH,  92*  7,  but  IV  R.  no  ;i  ni-si-ga^nUig-urpatu,  irpitu.  This 
form  yields  (he  true  reading  of  IM-DIR/C  and  also  establishes  the  word  ni.  ni  for  wind, 

'  Here  SBH.  62. 29  IV  R.  r  ta  53  =SBH.  92*8  have  e-4i-bi ^ut^  ni-iuUgul-i.  v.  SBP.  242,  53. 

>Cf.  SBH.  9269,  mu-!u  iir-er-ta-Mt  fiVJi  «  &r*«.\ 

'  Probably  for  im-ta-m-i-<i  =  uUsi-iu«uii 

"mar-mai  =  !ublur  CI.  l-t  lid-ial  =  tuhltt  SBH  92*  24  and  mai  =  lublu  II  R.  a  49.  lublu 
designates  some  part  of  the  temple  here. 

"  ZiMMERti's  text  has  DI. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


Col.  Ill 

(About  twenty-two  lines  broken  from  the  top.) 


163 


(23)  6.    am-an-ki   am  urii-fi-ilhha- 

g' 

(24)  7.  ama    i-ma^  ^dam-gal-nun- 

na-ge 

(25)  8.  ''asar-lu-dug   u-mu-un   lin- 

tir-{ki)-ge 

(26)  9.  mu-ud-na-ni      ^pa-nun-na~ 

(27)  10.  sukkal*-iid     ttiH-dug-ga-sd- 

[<■  1 

(28)  1 1 .  sukkal-^id  ii-mu'un  [ 

'1 

(29)  12.  dumu*-sag   ^{ural-a   i-gl-a- 

ni    ] 

(30)  1}.  u-\mu-un  mu-du-ru  stg-Su- 

dH] 
Here'followed  at  least  ten  lines 
to  the  end  of  the  column  which  can 
be  supplied  from  SB  P.  1 54.  34  ff. 

'Cf,  SBP.  154.  a6 

'Var.  SBP.  154.  17  iUmai:  see  also  106,  7  and  IV  R,  ii"  Nt 
hand  1 12.  26  has  ama  dHtmi-mai.  "Mother  of  Ihe  famous  son,"  i. 
mai^bil  jiri,  probably  a  technical  name.  For  the  i-mai  rf  E- 
68  V  ji  (and  88  1),  IV  1,  built  by  the  canal,  bit  ilri  probably  me; 
near  a  river  where  the  priests  performed  the  rituals  of  the  water-cull  of  Eridu,  see  BL.  115  n.  1. 
mat  should  not  render  ilru,  "field,  highland,"  but  sUu.  "lofty."  The  Sumerian  has  no  reference 
to  "Held"  but  designates  this  building  as  Ihe  "house  of  the  famous  one."  i.  r.,  house  of  Marduk 
god  of  the  water  cull. 

•  "Mother"  is  probably  used  in  a  pregnant  sense,  "she  who  bore  the  god  of  the  house  of  the 
water  cult." 

*  Read  dam  with  all  variants;   Zimmern  has  ni'n. 

'  For  pi-nun-an-ki-gi,  which  is  obviously  the  original  of  the  meaningless  PAP-nun-an-ki, 
PAP-Hun-na-ki.  The  text  of  SBH.  85,  39  has  ju**<jJ  which  should  be  corrected  to  nun.  The 
name  seems  to  mean  "Canal  of  the  prince  (Ea)  of  heaven  and  earth." 

'SBH.  8s.  JO  has  the  sign  M/tL.orE,bul  jaAia;  alone  is  correct.     Cf  SBH,  154.1)- 
'  Here  followed  some  unknown  title  of  Nebo  not  found  in  other  liturgies, 
'  Probable  rsading  for  an  unintelligible  sign,     Cf.  SBP.  154,  31;  BL  No.  $6  Rev,  18  etc. 
•Forthistitlecf  Nusku,  seeBL.  No.  lor,  i=SBP.  154,  jj. 


6.  The  divine  wild  bull  of  heaven 

and  earth,  wild  bull  of  the 
holy  city.' 

7.  Mother*  of  the  house  of  the 

famous  one,    goddess,   great 
spouse*  of  the  prince. 

8.  Asarludug,  lord  of  Babylon. 

9.  His  spouse,  Panunnakige. 

10.  The    faithful     messenger,     he 

named  with  a  good  name. 

1 1 .  The  faithful  messenger 

12.  The    first    born    daughter    of 

UraSa,  his  bride. 

13.  The  lord  of  the  wand,  adorned 

with  splendor.* 


;  Rev.  r).  On  Ihe  other 
,  Marduk.  ii-mai  and  i- 
nu  at  Lagash,  see  SAK. 
IS  the  building  constructed 


,,  Google 


164  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

Reverse  I 

(About  twenty  lines  broken  away.) 


'■  «' 

3.  ur-sagHgir? 

5.  UT-sag-gal{?)  ['urdia-^a 

7.  ''amurrii  [mu-lu  iar-sag-gh- 

gen 

9-15  no  traces. 

16.  nii^ 

18.  urU-mu-a 


2.  pa-tesi-gei?) 

4,  ^rmu-un-si^*[mu-ul-liUl&\ligirn 


6.  {M{?)-ri-ftar-rii'. 
8.  I«(?) 


17.  ama-gal ga-[la-an. . 

19.  nibru-{ki) 


Reverse  II 


I.  mu  i-du-a  mu-mu  pad-di 
mu-mu   nu^pad-di 


nu  urA-du-a  mu-mu.  pad-di 
mu-mu    nu-pad-d$ 


3.  kur  in-gaj-e    kur  in-ga-sig 
mu-mu  ni-pad-di 


(19) 


4.  kur  ur-ba  um-mi-in-gul  ui- 
la    mu-mu    ni-pad-di 


I .  The  name  of  the  builded  temple 
by  my  name  is  named,  which 
by  my  name  was  not  called. 

3.  The  name  of  the  builded  city 
by  my  name  is  called,  which 
by  my  name  was  not  called. 

3.  "The  strange  land  he  smites, 

the  strange  land  he  humili- 
ated," shall  my  name  be 
called. 

4.  "The  strange   land   altogether 

he  terrified,"  shall  my  name 
be  called. 


'Cf.  SBP.  ISO,  below,  note  5  I.  la-KL.  11  Rev.  II  11,  and  BL.  aa,  s,  title  of  NinuraH. 

'  Title  of  RammanF    Cf.,  however,  SBH.  56,  a  for  tti-ri(!) 

■  Cf.  BL.  No.  ;6  r.  30.    Read  umun  after  golf 

*KL.,  16]  I. 

'  Restore,  ao.     slub  it-ib  i-kur-ra  ki-dl-M-^-tH 

31.     iki-m-bi-im  balag  giUt  ]?P 

*  Here  ended  this  column. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


165 


(20) 

5- 

kur-kur  {ar-ri-ei-e*  mv-un- 

gab-gab*  mu-mu  ni-pad- 

dl 

5- 

"The  lands  in  anger  he  devas- 
tated," my  name  shall  be 
called. 

<2l) 

6. 

ki-bal    jar-ri-eW    mu-un- 

gal-gSP  mu-mu  fit-  pad- 

di 

6. 

"The  hostile  land/in  anger  he 
destroyed,"  shall  my  name  be 
called. 

<«) 

7- 

a-ili-a)'mu(l)-u       um-mi- 
m-sur  mu-mu  ni-pad-  dt 

7- 

"With waters      he      makes 

clean,"  shall  my  name  be 
called. 

(23) 

8. 

lag  gi-a  gi-ii*   Id-ab  t&g-e 
lAg-f 

8. 

Oh  heart,  be  reconciled,  be 
reconciled,  oh  heart,  repose, 
repose. 

(24) 

9- 

lag    an-[na\*    gi-ii    gi-ii 

9- 

Oh  heart  of  Anu,  be  reconciled, 
be  reconciled. 

(25) 

10. 

iag  ^mu-ulMl-ld  gi-a   gi-u 

10. 

Oh  heart  of  Enlil,  be  reconciled, 
be  reconciled. 

m 

11. 

[iag  ur-sag-gal\   gi-ii   gi-ii 

11. 

Oh  heart  of  the  great  hero.'  be 
reconciled,  be  reconciled. 

(=7) 

12. 

[% 1'-"]  gi-  [a] 

12. 

Oh  heart  of. .  be  reconciled,  etc. 

(=8) 

13- 

[^"i !'-«        S'-«] 

13- 

Oh  heart  of be  reconciled, 

etc. 
To  cause  the  heart  to  repose. 

w 

14- 

U-ab  lu-mu-un-tig-ima^ 

14. 

im-"    ra-       du'-ia    ]» 

let  us  speak  unto  thee. 

(30) 

li- 

(um-lfM ''babbar-gim  (a-e-ta 

[i-bar-ra]'^ 

'5' 

Unto  thy  city  like  the  sun  hasten 
gloriously. 

(30 

re. 

nippur-(ki)  ^babbar-gim  fu- 
e-ltai-bar-    ra] 

16. 

Unto  Nippur  like  the  sun  hasten 
gloriously. 

'Sic! 

•  gab-gai  •>  fab-iab  =  kummllru. 
•On  this  root  see  Simt,  Cr,  114, 

<Cf.  IV  R.  ii'b  io  und  Sum.  Cr.  Su6. 

•  Cf.  ibid.  33.    Var.  KL.  84  la-ab  gi-i.  elc. 

•  Cf.  BL.  49,  4  and  Meek,  No.  31.  4.     Var.  KL.  84,  i  has  Ug  ^gn-la,  a  title  of  Anu. 
.,  Ninuraa.     Cf.  BL.  49,  ij. 


'Sic!. 


xtNE. 


•Cf.  SBP.90.  14. 

"The  remaining  lines  are  completed  by  KL.  No.  16  left  column.  Here  begins  a  variant 
in  SBH.  76,  a6.  For  ja-t-la  this  text  has  ji-ji-ta.  ta-t^jo  or  jl  is  for  jal  >  ra  >  ji;  for  the 
tendency  of  open  a  to  become  i.  cf.  a-sii  >  t-sti  >  e-pt,  CT.  35,  20,  [8;  i  =  m<i,  "water,"  for  d, 
in  KL.  3  I  10,  I  Kr&.  "waters  of  the  city,"  for  which  Scheil,  Tammu^  has  a-ur&.  I  nu-iie-a, 
"waters  were  not."  KL.  44  r,  5,  cf.  BL.  307.  Ill  a  and  p.  110  note.  For  i-bar-ra.  SBH.  has 
^a-ra=di-}ia,  energetic  imperative,  "hasten."  za-t4a,  ii-ii-ia=ina  upl.  For  upH,  cf.  King, 
Matic  30,  13  and  SBH.  taS,  r.  37. 


,  Google 


i66 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


(32)  17.  i-kur ''babhar-gim  ia-[e-ta  e- 

bar-ra] 

(33)  18.  ken-iir  ''babbar-gim  \ia-e-ta 

i-bar-ra] 

(34)  19.  ^imbir-iki)  ^babbar-gim  la- 

[e-ia  e-bar-ra] 


17.  Unto  Ekur  like  the  sun  hasten 

gloriously. 

18.  Unto  Kenur  like  the  sun  hasten 

gloriously. 

19.  Unto  Sippar  like  the  sun  hasten 

gloriously. 


Reverse  III 


[e-bar-ra    babbar-gim   la-e-ta   e- 

bar-ra] 

[uru  ''anunilum-ma  ''babbar-gim 

ja-e-ta  i-bar-ra] 
[e-ul-mai  ^babbar-gim  ja-e-ta  i- 
bar-ra] 
[tin-iir-{ki)''babbaT-\gim    ia-e-[ta 
[i-]bar-ra' 

5.  [e-iag-il-la\  ^babbar-gim  ia-e'[ta  i- 

bar-ra] 

6.  [nippur-ki  urii-]ju'' uru-^u  ge-du-e 
[i-kur  e-{u    nippur-(ki)  ge-du-e 

[ken-UT  i-nam-ti-Ia]  ie-du-e 
jimbir-ki  ^e-du-e  [i-bhr-ra]  ge-du-e 

e-sd-kud-kalam-ma  ge-du-e  { 1 

ge-du-e 
tin-tir-{ki}  ge-du-e  sag-Ha  ge-du-e 

e-^i-da'  ge-du-e  kii-{ki)  ge-du-e 
i-kilib-ba  ge-du-e  e-me-le-ur-sag 
ge-du-e 
^ar-sag-kalam-ma  ge-du-e  e-tur- 
kaiam-ma  ge-du-e 


1.  Unto  Ebarra  like  the  sun  hasten 

gloriously. 

2.  Unto  the  city  of  Anunit  like 

the  sun  hasten  gloriously. 

3.  Unto  Ulmas  like  the  sun  hasten 

gloriously 

4.  Unto    Babylon    like    the    sun 

hasten  gloriously. 

5.  Unto     Esagilla     like     the     sun 

hasten  gloriously. 

6.  [Thy  city  Nippur]  be  built. 

7.  [Thy  temple  Ekur]  in  Nippur 

be  built. 

8.  [Kenur  and  Enamtila]  be  built. 

9.  Sippar  be  built,  Ebarra  be  built. 

10.  Esakudkalam-ma  be  built,.... 

be  built. 

11.  Babylon    be    built,    Sagilla    be 

built. 

12.  Ezida  be  built.  Kish  be  built. 

13.  Ekisibba  be  built,  Emeteursag 

be  built.* 

14.  [jarsagkalamma  be  built,  Etur- 

kalamma  be  built.^ 


'First  line  on  KL,  12  Rev.  Ml. 

'SoZiMMERN's  text.     Not  *i.     Cf.  SBH.70,  II, 

'  Although  Barsippa  is  not  mentioned  yet  Ezida  probably  refers  to  the  temple  of  Nebo 
there  and  not  to  the  Nebo  chapel  in  Esagilla. 

^Temples  in  Kish,  cf.  BL.  51,  41  f.  See  VAB.  IV  18;  n.  1,  where  evidence  warrants  the 
conclusion  that  EkiSib  was  the  chapel  of  Emetenursag. 

'Probably  both  temples  in  quarters  of  Erech,  cf.  BL.  93.  7  f.;  78,  )i  f.  According  to 
KL.  199  r.  I  ];  Harsagkalamma  '\%  also  the  name  of  a  lemple  in  Kish. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — 5UMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


15.  gA-dU-a-ki  ge-du-e   mes-lam  ge- 

dii-t 

16.  dil-bad-(ki)     [ie-du-e]e-i-be-an- 

na  ^e-du-e* 
'7-  [iag-iii-i&m  ge-ra-ab-bi] 

18.  [dib-bi-i^i-tUnt  le-ra-ab-bi] 

19.  \iag-gi~u  lag  iHg-mal-U] 


15.  Cutha  be  built.  Meslam  be  built. 

16.  Dilbat  be  built.  E-ibe-Anu  be 

built. 

17.  [May  one  utter  petition  unto 

thee.]* 

18.  [May  one  utter  intercession  unto 

thee.] 

19.  [Oh    heart    be    reconciled,    oh 

heart  repose] 


SBH.  No.  39. 

Series,  "Like  the  Sun   Hasten" 

This  tablet  belongs  to  the  Neo-Babylonian  redaction 
of  the  series  ''habhar-gim-e-ia  and  is  probably  the  fifth  or  next 
to  the  last  tablet.  A  Neo-Babylonian  tablet  of  the  same 
series  is  SBH.  No.  33,  duplicate  of  IV  R.  1 1  an  Assyrian  copy, 
possibly  tablet  2.  This  tablet  (2?)  has  been  edited  in  SBP. 
238-47.  Col.  i  of  tablet  2{?)  has  been  copied  into  Obv.  II 
of  the  ancient  allied  Enlil  series  bahbar-ri  babbari-gim  teg-ga-bi 
lal,  which  see,  for  a  new  edition  of  SBP.  238-43.  I  venture 
to  designate  BL.  73,*  an  Assyrian  copy,  as  the  sixth  or  last 
tablet.  This  text  contains  the  ersemma  or  recessional  which 
ended  a  long  Enlil  liturgy.  The  colophon  which  gave  the 
name  of  the  series  is  destroyed,  but  if  our  conjectures  be  correct 
BL.  73  Rev.  at  the  end  should  be  restored  er-sem-ma  ''babbar- 
gim  e-ia  Sa  ''"Enlil*      On  these  hypotheses  we  have  the  greater 


'Ct.  BL5..44. 

'The  restorations  at  ihe  end  of  this  colum 
'Meek.  No.  )3,  is  an  Assyrian  duplicate. 
'Cf.  SBH.  w.  Ti- 


re conjectured.     Cf.  BL.  No,  73.  4;  ff. 


,,  Google 


i68 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


portions  of  three  large  tablets  of  this  well-known  Enlil  liturgy. 
The  only  other  Enlil  series  whose  contents  are  more  completely 
known  is  the  am-e  bar-an-na-ra  series,  SBP.  96-129. 


Obverse? 
(About  twenty-five  lines  broken  away  at  the  top.) 


i-di-^u    [i-di-ju        nu-    kui-ii] 
tig-fu  ki-ma-al-[la    nu-gi-    gi]* 

lag-fM  bal-bal   H-hi   ni*-kui'it 

dam  bi-ib-tag  ki-kHr-ra  bi-in-iub 

aJ-Ja-ta  fl-Se-zib-ma  a-5ar  5a- 

nim-ma    id-di 
dumu  bi-ib-tag  mm-nim-ma  bi' 
in-lub 

ma-ra  d-5^e-zib-ma  ina  la  Sl- 

ra-[ti]-Sil(?)  id-di* 
mu-un-ga  ma-al-la  kur-ri  ba-an- 

ma-ak-ku-n  Sak-na  ana  nak-ri 
ta-ad-din 

gil-sa-a  ma-al-la  kur-r^  [iu-kut- 
ta  ia-kin-la  ana  nakri  iaddin] 

gii-gu-ja-ajag-ga-bi  kur-ri  ba-an- 
da-tui 


1.  Thy  seeing  eyes  weary  not.' 

2.  When  thy  neck  is  set  it  turns 

not  back. 

3.  How  long  until  thine  estranged 

heart  weary  not? 

4.  The  wife  he  rescued  and  settled 

in  a  strange  place. 


6.  The  son  he  rescued  and  settled 
in  a  place  not  bis  own. 

8.  The  accumulated  property  thou 
hast  given  to  the  stranger. 

10.  The  hoarded  treasures  thou  hast 

given  to  the  stranger. 

11.  In  its  holy  throne  the  stranger 

sits. 


'  Here  preceded  a  litany  like  SBP.  rj6,  11-19. 
•Cf.  SBP.  1J6.30. 

'  Retsner  gives  traces  of  two  signs  which  do  not  resemble  gi.     Cf.  SBP.  i)8,  21. 

'So  IV  R.  28*a37-SBH.8a,4,     But  SBH.  t)i.  4S  tiu-kui-i.     ni  is  here  a  variant  of  «« 

may  perhaps  have  the  value  li;   li,  In  frequently  occurs  as  phonetic  variants  of  iw. 

*So  Messerscnmidt-Uncnad  in  Meissner,  SAI.  6S00.     Literally,  "in  the  highlands." 

'Cf.  BL.  XVI  15. 


« Cf .  I 


(.a?. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


ina  ku-us-si-5a'  el-li  nak-ri  it- 

ta-Sa-ab 
mu-nad-bi*  ajag-ga-bi  kur-ri  ha- 
an-da-nad 

ina  ir-Si-Su  el-li-tu  ia-nu-um- 

ma  )-ni-il 
/-fw  mu-lu-k&r-Ta  a-gim  mu-un- 

na-ii-em 

bit-ka  ana  nak-ri  ki-i  ta-ad- 

din 
uru-iu  mu-lu-kir-ra  a-gim 

iag-ju  ie-en-titg-mal  bar-^u  ie- 

en-Ud-   di 
^tKu-[ul-]  lil-ld-\ge?)  iag-^ 
}^kuT-gal  am-\na^  iag-xu 


[nippur-ki     ]  urii-{u  ge-du-e 
[nippur-ki     ]    Sla-ka   li-in-ni- 
pu-u5-ma 
[i-kur\  i-iu  ie-dii-        e 
[ken-^r  i-nam-H-ia  ii\  nippur-ra* 

if 

[e-fe-nu^an-ki  ii]  i-ddr-an-na  ie- 

da 

urU'pt    babbar-gim  (l-fi-ta  i-ba- 
ra 


13.  On  its  holy  couch  the  stranger 
lies. 


15.  Thy  temple  unto  the  stranger 
thou  hast  given. 


17.  Thy  city  unto  the  stranger  thou 

hast  given. 

18.  May  thy  heart  repose,  thy  soul 

be  at  peace. 

19.  Oh  Enlil  may  thy  heart  repose. 

20.  [God    0}    the    great    mountain, 

crouching  wild-bull\.  may  thy 
heart  repose. 

21.  Nippur  thy  city  be  rebuilt. 


23,  Ekur  thy  temple  be  rebuilt. 

24.  Kenur     and      Enamtila      the 

abode(s)  of  Nippur  be  rebuilt. 
2;.  Etemeanki  and  the  abode  Edar- 

anna  be  rebuilt. 
26.  Unto    thy   city    like    the    sun 

hasten  in  splendor. 


.  1.  14  I'fui  ir!i-lu,  where  Ihe  masc.  iu  is  empJoyed.     The  pronouns  can  hardly  refer 
no  evidence  supports  a  meaning  "chapel,  shrine"  for  lakuilu.  although  it  has  the 
asure  house,"  BL.  47,   18.     Cf.  SBH.  84.  9  where  it  is  a  synonym  of  makkuru. 
ia  and  in  cannot  both  be  employed  of  the  same  antecedent  unless  one  or  the  other  is  an  error. 
I  regard  bllu,  "temple"  (always  masc.)  as  the  antecedent  and  In  as  an  error. 
'  Sic!  an  error.     Strike  ii. 
'Restoration  uncertain.     Cf.  SBP.  276.  9. 
*  Here  the  scribe  has  written,  6  mtt-mel  ga-tid-nui,  "Six  lines  are  omitted."     These  six 

(1)  fim*ir-(*i}  it-dn-e,  "Sippar  be  rebuilt." 

(a)  i-iAr-ra  i-si-kvd-kaiamii  it,  "Ebarra  and  Esakudkalama,  etc." 

(3)  iin-tir-ki  ie.  "Babylon,  etc." 

(4}  i-mg-il-la        t-tur-kalama  it.  "Esagilla  and  Eturkalama.  etc." 

(5)  had-ii-ab-^a-{ki)  it.  "Barsippa,  etc." 

(6)  i-{i-da  li  i-mai-ti-Ut  it.  "Ezida  and  the  shrine  Emahrila,  etc." 
See  for  these  lines  SBP.  138.  6-1 1. 


y  Google 


170  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

27.      ana  3!i-ka  ki-ma  ''"SamSi  ina 
u-pi-e  ar-ba 


28.  nippur-ki  uru-^ufbabbar-gim  fi' 

29.  i-ddr-lan-rta''babbar-gim  ji] 

30 


28.  Unto  Nippur  thy  city  like  the 

sun  in  splendor  hasten. 

29.  Unto  Edaranna  like  the  sun  in 

splendor  hasten. 

30 * 


Reverse(?) 
(Eight  or  ten  lines  missing.)' 


2.  [elim-ma?\  umun  kur-kur-[ra-g€\ 

3.  [. . ,  .-\ra  umun  ^mu-ul-  il-ld 

4.  elim-ma  ur-sag  ''asar-lu-dug 

5.  ur-sag-gat         umun  ^en-bi-lu-lu 

6.  iib  \ii-da?\     sib  sag-gig-  ga 

7.  mu-lu  sag-^u-a  tug  ba-iul-l^ 

8.  tig-^u  ur-ra  ba-e-ni-mar-ra 

9.  lag-iu   gi-pisan-gim   Sm-ma  ba- 

lit-a 

10.  e-lum  mu-ui-pifug-(u  iir-ra  mi- 

ni-ib-us-sa' 

1 1 .  ldug-ga-(u  a-ba  mu-]un-kur-ri  de 

12.  ki-bit-ka  man-nu  u-nak-kar 

13.  lai-a-^u  a-ba  mu-un-dib-bi-de 


I the  temple. .  . . 

2.  Ob  exalted  one.  lord  of  lands. 
3 lord  Enlil. 

4.  Oh    exalted   one,    heroic   Asar- 

ludug. 

5.  Mighty  hero,  lord  Enbilulu. 

6.  Failbful  shepherd,  shepherd  of 

the  dark-headed  peoples.* 

7.  Thou    who    hast    covered    thy 

head  with  a  garment. 

8.  Thy  neck  thou  hast  placed  in 

thy  bosom. 

9.  Thy   heart    like   a    reed   water 

bucket  thou  hast  covered. 

10.  Exalted  one  thou  hast  put  thine 

ears  in  thy  bosom. 

11.  Thy  command  who  can  alter? 

I}.  Thy  help  who  can  surpass? 


'  Here  again  six  lines  with  the  six  titles 
after  each  have  been  omitted. 

'  The  mekxiy  continued  here  for  about 
two  moli/s,  it-du-t  and  ^habbar-fim  [f-;i-(<i  (or 
the  classical  series  Ni.  4591  +  KL.  \i,  but  occur 

'  Here  began  a  melody  whose  motif  h  lost. 

'SBP.  1J4,  5;   120,  7,  etc. 

»Var.  SBH.  ijc.  iobi-i«l-la. 

'Var  SBH.  i)i,  5}  has  a  rendering  suited 
put  thy  fingers  in  thine  ears." 


lole  2  and  the  refrain    babbar-gim  {i-;I-/iJ  i-ba-ra 

Sumerian  lines  10  the  end  of  the  tablet.  These 
;a-e-lii)  i-ba-ra,  charactetize  the  last  melody  of 
Ihere  in  the  order  ''babbar-gim.  elc,  and  ie-di-e. 


1  the  Semitic  idiom,  "Exalted,  thou  who  hast 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON-— SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


a-$ap-ka  man-nu  it-ti-ku 
i-di  il-la-^u  a-ba  ba-ra-i 
dug-bad-du-iu  a-ba  ba-ra-iub-bu 
kur  igi-nim-ta  mu-un-ju  ma^-dm 

ina  ma-a-tu  e-li-tu  Jum-ka  ;i- 

ri 

kur-igi'Sig-ga-ta  mu-un-^u  ma^- 

dm 

ina  ma-a-tu  £ap-]i-tu  Sum-ka 

;i-ri 

an-na  ma^-min  ki-a  mai-min 

ina  Sa-me-e  si-ra-ta  ina  irji- 

tim  5i-ra-ta 
an-na  mag-min  mu-un-iu  mai- 
dm 

ina  Sami-e  ji-ra-ta  Sum-ka  ji- 

ri 
rni^un-^   ma^-dm    la-e   dingir 

mag-dm 

5um-ka  si-ium  at-tu  i-lum  %\- 

rum 

la-e  dingir  tnai-dm  dam-fu  nin- 

mag-dm^ 

ditto    aS-Sat-ka      be-lit  ilani 
dam-[^u    Vjm-ru*    SAL  +  KU 

''mu-ul-lil-   Id 

[a5-Sat-ka  ''"a-ru-ru'l  a-bat 
''mu-ui-lil-ld 


.  From  thy  vision  who  escapes?' 
.  From  thy  stride  who  shall  flee? 
.  In  the  upper  land  thy  name  is 
famous. 


In  the  lower  land  thy  name  is 
famous. 


In  heaven  thou  art  mighty;  in 
earth  thou  art  mighty. 


In  heaven  thou  art  mighty  and 
thy  name  is  famous. 


.  Thy  name  is  famous;   thou  art 
a  mighty  god. 


,  Thou  art  a  mighty  god  and  thy 
consort  is  a  mighty  queen.' 


Thy  consort  is  Aruru,  sister  of 
Enlil. 


(About  twenty-four  lin 


I of  Enlil 

s  broken  away.) 


'Cf,  SBP,  8n.  2. 

'Cf.  SBP.  276  Rev.  1,  ga-Sa-an  nu-um-lil  dam-ju  ga-ia-an  ab-da,  "A  queen  ihere  is  not, 
thy  consort  as  queen  rules." 

'  Semitic  version,  "Thy  consort  is  the  goddess  'Mistress  of  the  gods'." 

*  Arum,  title  of  Nintud,  is  a  type  of  the  mother  goddess  and  usually  kept  distinct  from  all 
married  types.  She  and  Enlil  were  originally  sister  and  brother,  like  Innini  and  Tammuz. 
Enlil  developed  into  a  local  bll  of  Nippur  and  his  consort,  originally  his  sister  Aruru,  was  given 
the  name  Ninlil.  In  Meek,  n,  ij  =  BL.  No.  88.  j+No.  j4,  2  =  CiiAiG.  RT.  19,6,  Aruru  is  a 
title  of  Ninlil  and  also  sister  of  Enlll,  where  the  ancient  prehistoric  relation  survives  as  here. 

'  Indicated  by  "ditto," 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


Fragment  of  a  Titular  Litany 

This  fragment,  which  consists  of  the  lower  half  of  a  single 
column  tablet,  contains  only  interesting  titles  of  various  gods, 
followed  by  a  refrain  which  began  with  ab.  Liturgies  of  this 
kind  recur  frequently.  For  example,  tablet  five  of  a  series 
edited  in  SBP.  i^o-iyj  began  as  follows: 

Sd-ab  u-mu-un  lug~e-en-ne  ul-U-eS 
M~ah  tug-mal  bar  i^g-mal-da  ldb~%S-en 
me-en-ne  Sd-ab  u-mu-un  mu-un^iiig-e'en-ne  ul-li~eS 
id-ah  an-na  Sag  ^asar-lu-dug  mu-un. 

"The  heart  of  the  lord  let  us  pacify  with  gladness. 
To  pacify  the  heart,  to  pacify  the  soul  let  us  go. 
We  the  heart  of  the  lord  will  pacify  with  gladness. 
The  heart  of  Anu,  the  heart  of  Marduk  we  will  pacify."* 

Note  that  the  prefix  mu-un  in  line  4  indicates  that  we 
restore  mu-un-t^g-e-en-ne.  This  liturgy  then  continues  for 
more  than  one  hundred  lines,  with  the  same  refrain,  mu-un, 
etc.,  being  repeated  after  a  name  and  title  of  some  god  precisely 
as  ab  is  repeated  after  names  and  titles  of  gods.  The  frag- 
ment is  a  partial  variant  of  the  fifth  tablet  of  the  series  muten- 
nu-nunui  gim,  edited  in  SBP.  [30-179.  Obverse  \  is  parallel 
to  SBP.  156,  51  and  the  last  line  on  the  reverse  is  parallel  to 
SBP.  162,  27.  A  considerable  number  of  divine  names  in  the 
fifth  tablet  of  the  above  series  do  not  appear  here.  This 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Nippur  text  is  more  than  1500  years 
older  than  the  Neo-Babylonian  redaction  in  the  muten-nu 
series.     Lines  4-13  of  Zimmern,  KuUUeder  8  IV  are  closely 

'  The  sign  DV-^DU,  lai.lag{=alaku)'v\ivn  followed  by  N£ should  probably  be  read  lab^. 
*  See  for  these  restorations  Babykmiaca  1 1  i  349. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I73 

parallel  to  Rev.  6-13,  but  KL.  8  IV  [O  does  not  appear  here 
and  the  order  of  the  divine  names  is  slightly  different.  KL. 
li  Rev.  Ill  i=Obv.  2  and  forms  a  close  parallel  for  several 
lines. 

This  text  will  prove  to  be  of  surpassing  interest  for  its 
phonetic  spellings  of  hitherto  obscure  ideograms  and  will 
settle  also  the  meanings  and  connections  of  several  divine 
names. 

Obverse 

1.  ga-ia-an  i-ri-ga-al*  a-ma  ku-ul-  1.  Oh  queen  of  the  "great  city," 

la-ba  ab  mother  of  Kullab,  ufc* 

2.  en-a-nu-UT^  dUr-ur-ku*  imin  ab  2.  Enanun     that     harnesses     the 

seven  dogs,  ab 

3.  ma-su  in-da-a^  ra  mu-u-ri-m^  3.  Chieftain     Indag,     the    urinu- 

ab  spear,  ab 

■Notel.  6and  Var. /IS-juI.  SBP.  j;6,  (i. 

'  The  rendering  of  this  phrase  offers  diflicu[[y  due  lo  the  preceding  lacuna  which  obscures 
Ihe  connection,  ab  al  the  end  of  these  lines  represents  some  verbal  phrase  which  began  with 
ab  in  a  preceding  line      It  is  no  longer  possible  to  restore  this  refrain. 

'  Var,  of  fB-d-Hun,  a  title  common  to  Innini  and  Gula  of  Isin.  The  theological  list  of  gods, 
CT.  35,  J,  3J  places  this  title  in  the  Quia  section  with  her  husband  Pabilsag  who  below  Rev.  i 
becomes  her  son;  thus  Enanun  (Gula)  and  Pabilsag  are  types  of  innini  and  Tammui.  Accord- 
ing to  CT.  35.  2.  33  en-d-nuti  is  um-mi  ri-mt  *'''Cula,  "Mother- womb,  Gula,"  a  title  empha- 
sizing the  mother  goddess  as  patroness  of  childbirth,  see  Tammu;  and  Isbtar  60.  Also  m-d- 
n»n  ama  t&-an-Hi-si-tt  refers  lo  Gula  in  SBH.  93,  8  =  Mthhm*n.  BP.  I  j  Rev.  7,  in  SBH. 
86,  53  =  91,  Ji  iH-d-nuH  is  a  title  of  Innini  and  ama  gi-an-ni-si-gt  is  rendered,  um-mi  ii-ta-lra 
larrat  Sa-su-u],  "The  mother  Ishtar,  queen  of  lamentation,"  restored  from  K.  4349  D*  8  in 
CT.  34,  31,  a  variant  of  CT,  3;.  3,  33.  K.  4)49  D*  recognizes  both  aspects  of  Enanun,  i.  t., 
iilara  larrat  las^  (—Innini  as  weeping  molber)  and  ummi  ttmi  la  '"'Gula,  "Mother-womb. 
this  is  Gula."  For  ''en-d-nun  ama  fit-an-tii-si  as  title  of  Innini  see  also,  Zimmekn,  KL.  n 
Rev.  Ill  [.  git-an-ni-si  is  perhaps,  despite  the  Semitic  translation  above,  to  be  regarded  with 
Radau,  be.  30,  14  as  a  variant  of  g(i-d-nu-id  =  gi-d-nu{n)-gi-a  (by  palatalization,  see  Sum. 
Gr.  i^(b))-=iarradai  la  la  imma^^ar.  see  SBP.  158,  ;8;  81,  ;3;  86,  28  and  )ti,-a-«u-si.  KL. 
II  Rev.  IN  7.  Hence  En-i-nu(n) ^ £ff-d-»«-|i-fl,  "the  queen  (sic!)  unopposable."  In  this 
aspect  she  is  identified  with  the  queen  of  Hades,  Allatu  and  Nergal  lord  of  [be  lower  world. 
see  Radau,  ibid.,  who  adduces  •^gu-a-nu-ii  =  ""Allalum.  CT.  35.  4,  j;. 

*My  rendering  depends  upon  Ihe  passage  V.AB.  IV  374  111  14,  la  sanJali  tibitli  labba, 
"Jljlarl  who  harnesses  the  seven  lions." 

>Var.  oJ*"Endagga.  husband  of  Gula,  CT.  35.  3,  33  (-K,  4349  D"  7). 

'mit<  (>]  as  in  niii-uri  =  iirinM,  M*,  83-$-33,' 574,  8.  For  ji}-uri.  a  spear  wiih  handle,  see 
RA.  V  130.    Uncertain. 


,,  Google 


174  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

4.  ni-nti-ir'  sa-ga   ga-an-du-ur  sa-  ,  4.  Potentate  who  the  head 

mal ta-ri-ba \ab]  [ab] 

5.  ga-ia-an  mu-ga'  bu-lu-uk-ku?  ji-  5.  Oh  queen sovereign 

ma mi-ri'juga-al-Ia-[biab]  thy  foot  is  placed,  [ab] 

6.  ii-mu-un  i-ri-ga-al  gu-si-sa^ 6.  Oh  lord  of  the  vast  abode,  the 

[ab]  impetuous  ox,  [ab] 

7.  ir-ra-ga-al          gu-si-sa* . . .  .[ab]  7.  Great  (G)irra,  the  impetuous  ox, 

{ab\ 

8.  ni-in-ni-^'im-ma       gu  ma-nu-un  8.  [Lordjof whatsoeverhasaname, 

....  [ab]  ox  who  is  unopposed,  [ab] 

9.  e-ji-na"  dur-ru-si-ga'  dur-ru  ia-  9.  Ezina,  that  sprinkUi  libations, 

ri-ba[ab\  that libations,  ab 


^ni-mi-ir  —  Himgir  >  ni-gir  >  li-gir  =  iuigiru,  potentate,  futapinnu.  bridegroom,  see  5iiiif. 
G>.  331  and  RA.  10.  73.  36  MIR-SI  (fi-(ii) ^iusapinnti.     The  feminine  nagiratu  has  not  been 

'  For  giiflf? 

*buiug,  titerally,  crab,  and  originally  an  astral  title  of  Innini,  has  fallowed  the  analogy  of 
uiumgal,  pylhon.  and  obtained  the  meaning,  potentate,  ruler.  This  passage  yields  the  earliesi 
known  occurrence  of  the  word  balug  which  is  earlier  than  the  sign  BULUG,  see  Tammuj  anJ 
Isblar,  160, 

'  Var.  of  jfi-ii-id,  title  of  Nergal,  SBP,  82,  45;  alpu  muluniru.  SBP.  [;8.  ;8  has  gi-d- 
nu-id-KL.  J I  Rev.  Ill  7  k&-a-«»'Si=alpu  la  immaiiar.  SBP,  86.  28,  See  note  on  Enanun 
I,  ).     These  lines  correspond  to  SBP,  1 58.  57  f. 

'Var,  SBP,  i;8,  6j  nmun  nani-iiui-gt  =  KL.  11  Rev.  Ill  10,  d-mu-un  ttig-nam-ma-ge  = 
bil  mimma  Sttmiu;  ni-in-ni-im-ma  —  nignamma,  but  the  text  omits  umutt.  Our  text  also  omits, 
after  Irragal.  his  consort  ^KAL-ldg-ga  sil  dagal-la  tdin-na^ardatu  damkatu  la  m-li-e  Im^Ji 
io  ilri],  "Pure  maid  that  walks  llie  wide  street  of  inferno,"  ll  also  omits  ^nin-sig-tc  ''guikin- 
banda.SBP.  i;8.6o=KL.  m  11 1  9,  a  title  of  Nergal,  or  at  any  rate  an  under-world  deiiy.  *«in- 
sig  =  ''niit-sig.  II  R.  ^96  aSis  rendered  £^/u  nabnit  butmanl  btl  mim-\mo  lumlu],  CT.  a;,  49  Rev,  3, 
"Lord,  creature  of  a  bright  form,  lord  of  whatsoever  has  a  name."  Obviously  bll  mimma  Sumlu 
translates  the  other  title  nin-nnm-mu,  II  R.  ^ga  iS  =  timin-tiaM-ma-ge.  elc.  Another  title  of 
this  same  god  is  iun-HI-tlU  (so  read  for  iitn-mwmu)  II  R,  39a  ig=umun  llB-k&l-kAt.  SBP. 
158,  s I  - iwn-*"'-*"'.  CT.  34,  3j,  24={inu)ieii-kur-kur,  KL.  11  Rev.  Ill  lo.  Hm  =  61111110 nil. 
cf.  CT.  34.  41.  79  and  kul  >  kur  is  probably  for  gut,  "sculptured,"  hence  "the  sculptured  form," 
the  siatue-like  figure. 

*t-p-na  is  one  of  the  pronunciations  of  the  name  of  Ihe  grain  goddess  SE-TIR.  ordinarily 
pronounced  alnan;  see  81-4-28,  9.  e-;i-nH  =  ^SE-T/R.  JRAS,  190;.  839.  In  CT.  34.  ij,  11 
I^SE-\TIR  and  ''e-ji-nu-u  are  distinguished,  hence  Eiinu  and  ,\fnan  are  different  types  of  Ihe 
grain  goddess.     This  line  is  paraJlel  lo  SBP.  [;8,64  =  KL.  11  Rev.  Ml   ii. 

' durru  sign  is  a  variant  of  A-SUG,  1.  e.,  durusug  in  SBP.  159,  64.  duru  =  A  =  ralbu, 
"watered,"  Syl.  Berlin  3024  I  )  and  d&r^labaku,  "pour  out,"  II  R,  48(  )0,  hence  duru.  dur 
has  probably  Ihe  meanings,  flow,  pour,  and  libation,  hence  "She  that  sprinkles  the  libation 
(of  meal  or  grain)."  The  Var.  KL.  11  Rev.  Ill  ti  has  the  more  common  af^j-i«i,  a  title  of 
Nidaba  [he  grain  goddess,  CT.  14,  9,  35  =  23,  17  and  Ihe  same  title  also  applies  to  Ihe  fire-god 
Gibil,  theiawjaniBifliwof  Enlil,  Meek,  No,  24,  4;  CT.  34,  10,  12;  IV  R.  2%'b  13.  aiag  probably 
means  roasted  cakes,  here  {tllitu)  as  in  PSBA,  1909.  62,  1;  and  Mykrhan,  BP.  I  14.  49,  and 
is  connected  with  the  tool  jai.  roasi,  burn.  Sum.  Cr.  357;  a^ag-sug.  "He  or  she  that  sprinkles 
roasted  grain." 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I75 

10.  ii-mu-un  ma-da  Su-du^  a-na\ab]  lo.  Lord    of    the    earth,    light    of 

heaven,  ab 

1 1 .  ii-ntu-un  ii-;u*  it-mu-un  e-[ n .  Lord,  healer,  lord  [of  the  seizing 

ab]  hand] 

12.  U-mu-un  mu'{i-da^    gur-ni.  .[ab]  12.  "Lord  of  the  true  tree,"  whose 

neck ab. 


1.  e-ri-da'  gu  t-nu  [. . .  .ab]  1.  Oh  virile  lord,  ox ab 

2.  ga-ia-an  ti-il-dib-ba  me  ji. .  .[ab]  2.  Queen    that    gives   life    to   the 

dying. . .  .[ab] 

3.  ga-ia-an  su-bu-ra*  ba-an-iu-ur'-  3.  Queen  of   the  earth,   heavenly 

a-na  ab  table,  ab 

■  ludu,  variant  sub-bi,  SBP,  160,  ;,  is  probably  the  same  rooi  as  tud  ()),  Sum.  Gr. 
141.  A  root  luj,  from  which  iud.  iud  was  derived  (g  >  d),  meaning  lighl,  was  suggested, 
ibid.  14}.  See  now  ju-itH  =  iKflidJ«,  to  shine,  RA.  jo,  79  III  10.  The  root  sug,  iug.  be  bright, 
pure,  is  probably  Ihe  original  of  bolh  sud,  Sudu,  and  tub,  iub-bt. 

■  Var,  iJ-rM.-   for  Nergal  as  healer  see  B6llenrOcher,  Nergal,  No.  2,  3, 

*umuH  miixida  indicates  primarily  Ningiizida  II  R.  59.  36.  but  more  frequently  Tammuz. 
See  T<iinnm{  and  Isbtar  7  n.  j  and  1 18,  and  SBP.  160,  7. 

'  e-ri-da,  a  variant  of  irrtf,  SBP.  160.  8  and  a  title  of  Ninsubuf,  is  probably  an  augmented 
form  of  tri  to  beget,  virih;   hence,  mistress,  lord.     As  title  of  GeJtinanna,  see  BL.  16.  ^  f. 

'  subura;  subur.  lubur  is  the  ordinary  value  of  a  sign  confused  with  SAlj  in  the  name  of 
the  god  NiH'Subur,  GaUn-sufmr^bfl  irfitim.  a  type  of  unmarried  god  related  to  Tammuz.  For 
(aIan-jiiiiir  =  Tammui,  see  BL.  62.  6,  and  for  the  reading  of  the  second  sign  see  Hroiny  in 
ZA.  J9,  i6-j.  On  subur  see  Sam.  Cr.  342.  In  SBP.  160,  8  and  11  Calan-fubur  seems  to  be 
identified  with  the  god  of  Isin  and  consort  of  Gula  of  Isin,  but  in  all  other  passages  this  god  is 
without  consort  and  generally  regarded  as  a  herald  of  Anu  sakkal  Anim.  But  galan  ''Subur-ra 
refers  to  Innini  in  SBP.  36,  i}  =  BL.  73.  11.  and  gaSan-subura  in  our  passage  clearly  refers  to 
Gula  of  Isin.  We  have  here  another  one  of  those  feminine  titles  of  the  ancient  mother  goddess 
applied  without  reference  lo  gender  10  the  youthful  god  of  vegetation.  Note  that  KA-D!  is  a 
title  ol  both  mother  goddess  and  Tammuz,  and  ama-ulumgal-anna  has  the  same  indiscriminate 
application,  Tammu;  and  Isbtar.  p.  r6. 

'Literally,  "table  of  heaven."  Ninmarki,  a  related  type  of  mother  goddess  in  Radau, 
Misctl.  ),  4.  is  called  gil-banlur  g\r-g\-nt  =  pallur  =  u.barti,  "table  for  the  fugitive  handmaid." 
[ubarru,  fugitive.  Sum.  gir  in  AJSL.  38,  j)j,  16  and  me-e  gir-m^n  =  u-ba.ra-li»,  a  fugitive  am  ], 
Meek,  87,  9  — SBP.  113,  );  =  BL.  94,  11.  Hence  u-ba-ru,  foreign  resident,  contrasted  with  mar 
Mi,  native  citizen,  Shurpu  VIM  41.  Note  ubartu,  Ihe  fern.,  rendered  into  Sum.  by  g'lr-gi-tii, 
where  gi-He  =  gin.  ardalu.  Var.  e-ne,  SfiH.  101,  1;.)  A  Kassite  king  calls  himself  the  paliur 
nili,  "table  of  the  people,"  Radau,  BE.  17  p.  47,  ;,  The  figurative  meaning  of  these  passages 
is  apparently  "One  who  supplies  food."  Our  passage  probably  describes  Gula  as  she  that 
supplies  food  to  mankind,  a  title  entirely  consonant  with  all  the  types  of  mother-goddesses. 
a-tia  i  take  to  be  the  ordinary  theological  addition  ana,  anna,  "heavenly."  see  TammH;  and 
Isbtar,  19  n.  I,  44.  etc. 


,,  Google 


176  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

4.  ga-ia-an  i-si-na  ma-iu-gi^  ki-ga  4.  Queen  of  Isin,  sovereign  of  the 

ab  earth,  ab 

5.  du-mu-iu  pa-bi-il-sa-dg^  tu-ku-u?  5.  Thy  son  Pabilsag,  ihe  comforter 

nam-mu-^u*  ab  0/  wisdom  (love?),  ab 

6.  gu-nu-ra^  di-im-gu-ul  ka-na-Hm-  6.  Gunura,  tarku^  of  the  Land,  ah 

ma  ab 

7.  da-mu  sa-ga'    me-ir-ii  ni-mi-in-  7.  Pious  Tammuz,  who  the  floods 

di  ab  causes  to  flow,  ab 

'  tnaiugi^m^i-iag  —  alaridu,  SAI.  1178,  and  probably  jdeniical  wilh  mdl-iug^massH. 
leading-goat;  hence,  lord,  chieftain.  Shamash  is  m4i'Sag  kur-kur-ra^aSarid  maldla,  "sovereign 
of  the  lands,"  Meek,  i,  21,  and  Ihe  same  title  of  Shamash  in  Bab.  Ill  78.  Our  passage 
refers  lo  Gula  as  the  earth-molher,  the  idea  original  wilh  all  Ihe  mother  goddesses. 

•This  phrase  yields  the  true  reading  of  Ihe  name  PA-NE-SAC  who  in  Ml  R.  66c  14 
occurs  between  Btlit-fhi  (  =  Geitinanna,  sisier  of  Tammuz)  Gula  and  Gunura  (  =  Nini  sister  of 
Ningirsu).  This  list  of  eleven  gods,  II,  10-20,  refers  obviously  to  Innini  and  Tammuz  or  mother 
goddess  and  dying  son  under  various  types  who  were  worshipped  in  the  temple  of  Gula  at 
AKiur.  Cula  in  this  list  reverts  to  her  ancient  unmarried  character  and  is  identical  with  Innini, 
more  especially  with  Innini  as  a  healer.  Again  K.  4)38  V  41  places  Pabilsag  between  Ni'nJin- 
'''K"  {'■Gula)  and  Damu  (=  Tammuz).  An  ancient  Semitic  poem,  CT,  XV  6-7  (see  Dhorme 
in  RA.  VII  l8  ff.  and  Holma,  OLZ.  1911,  442)  describes  the  brother  of  Innini,  here  called 
Pabilsag  (col.  VI  8),  whom  Enlil  and  Ninlil  begat  in  wedlock,  but  who  is  seized  away  from 
Innini.  In  astrology  the  constellation  Pabilsag  designates  the  Archer,  hence  the  Sumerians 
regarded  him  as  a  hunter.  In  Poebel,  Creation  1 1  17,  Pabiliarsag  lord  of  Larak,  is  probably 
his  most  ancient  name,  hence  by  origin  a  mountain  god,  type  of  Tammuz,  who  became  a  local 
ba'at  of  Larak  with  his  consort  and  sister  or  mother  Innini,  who  here  becomes  a  married  type 
under  the  name  Gula-Enanun.  see  above  note  on  obverse  a.  Larak  was  a  part  of.the  great  city 
Isin  whose  gods  Nin-urai  and  Cula  are  married  types  of  Tammuz  and  Innini.  See  further, 
Radau,  BE.  jop.  [4H.  5.    Our  line  is  a  variant  of  SBP.  160,  13=Zim.  KL.  8  IV  4  and  11  Rev. 

Ill   31. 

'  KU  =  tttkultH  has  probably  Ihe  value  lukul.  Compare  the  sign  name  of  KU,  tukullum, 
Syl.  A.    I  j;  and  Syl.  C.  36;.  tukut  is  then  a  Semitic  loan  word, 

^  nam-mu^=iuiTSmu(?)  probably  not  rlmu.  mercy.  In  any  case  the  idea  of  love  suits  the 
character  of  Tammuz.  mii-Iu-mu-;u  =  rii'i>nlu,  "[IStar]  the  loving."  or  "the  mercifur'fp),  in 
SBH.  106,  a.  leaves  us  in  doubt  concerning  the  root,  rimu  or  rlmu.  If  this  interpretation  be 
correct  nam-mu-ju  contains  Ihe  root  ju  wilh  abstract  prefix  gH  >  mu!  >  mu  and  the  abstract 
prefix  nam.  mulu  mu-;u  really  means  bll  (or  bilil)  miidiUi.  "He  of  wisdom."  and  the  rendering 
ra'imlu  "she  that  loves"  is  secondary  For  (i!-f u - m(W(i(«,  wisdom,  cf,  gaUmu-^u,  "Mighty 
in  wisdom,"  Gud.  Cyl.  A,  13.  30,  Another  gii-fu » tablet,  scroll,  in  colophons,  sec  Del.  H.  W. 
I9j*and  Harp.  Lett.  185,  II  and  14. 

'iBM«rais  title  of  both  Nini  and  Gula  as  patroness  of  healing  Both  in  CT,  17,33  Rev.  J4 
and  SBP.  160,  J)  she  occurs  with  Damu,  1.  i.,  Tammuz  as  healer.     See  6L,  136. 

•  Var.  KL.  8  IV  s,  giS-md-mug. 

'  Var.  Ug-ga  =  damiu,  SBP.  160.  14;    KL.  8  IV  6. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I77 

8.  H-mu-un  ''immer  am  i-di-en'  ab'  8.  Lord,  god  of  the  storms,  bull  of 

terror,  ab 

9.  u-mu-un     li*    ka-na-im-ma    h  9.  Lord  of  the  life  of  Sumer,  of  the 

kur-kur-ra?  life  of  the  lands. . . . 

10.  su-ud  du-mu  nu-un  e-U-en-di-li*  10.  Sud,   daughter  of   the   prince, 

ajag-lga  ab]  radiant  eletidili,        ab 

1 1 .  e-ii-ra  naStn-iti'ie  le-i'ti  na-dm-  1 1 . 

dib-dib-bi^ 

12.  sv-mu-un-ga-an'  lig-gdV   igi-in-  12.  Gira,  the  god  who  gives  heed 

ba-ar  u  li-im-dib-a        ab  to    the    cattle,    who    causes 

them  to  have  grass,    ab 

■Var.  nf-J«->u,  SBP.  [60,  i^  Note  the  variant  ni-d-iiN-iu,  KL.  8  IV  7  and  nf-iJO-an-no, 
II  Rev.  Ill  39. 

'The  text  has  (a,  which  I  have  coirected.  but  see  KL  8  IV  8  ff. f4  at  end  of  the  lines, 

depending  on  some  other  motif. 

•ii^li^napiUu.     Cf.KL,8IV8;    1 1  Rev.  Ill  jj;   SBP.  160.  17. 

<  KL.  8  [V  g.  ''su-kur-ru  dumu  nun-a  lUUd-dit  a{ag-ga-ta.  SBP.  160,  18,  *sii-»d-Sm  ama 
hldb-ia.  SBP.  36,  7— BL.  71,  ),  ^iu-kur-ru  ditmu-Hu«-ab[u-/,t .  Hence  su-ud  and  ib-ud-im 
are  titles  of'Swra^/'a*.  the  goddess  of  Shuruppak,  a  form  of  Cula,  called  warflfruMapif,  "daughter 
of  the  prince  of  the  sea."  This  goddess  is  clearly  a  form  of  Gula  (see  SBP.  161  «.  ra)  and 
Sunippak  tike  Larak  was  probably  a  part  of  the  great  city  Isin,  modern  Fara.  Bui  'luruppak 
is  given  as  a  lille  of  Ninlil  in  Ihe  great  list,  CT.  14,  5.  9  =  12,  109,  where  she  is  also  called  ''su-ud. 
Here  we  have  a  tendency  10  identify  the  mother  goddess  of  Shuruppak  with  the  married  deity 
Ninlil  of  Nippur.  Ai  lo  the  gpddeis  Sud,  Sudam.  note  thai  SBH.  134,  )6-SBP.  160,  18  renders 
^s6-ud-3m  by  "ditto,"  and  dumu  nun-a  by  [ma-ral  rii-ii-)^.  "daughter  of  the  prince,"  i.  «,, 
daughter  of  Ea.  The  noun  sud  probably  means  "light,"  see  above,  note  on  Obv.  10  and  sA- 
da-dm,  a  title  of  Aja,  goddess  of  sunlight,  and  originally  a  type  of  the  mother  goddess  Innini, 
later  associated  with  Shamash  of  Agade,  see  Tammuj  and  hbiar  96  (.  stt-ud-da-dm^n^r  iaml, 
a  title  of  Innini  as  Venus,  SBH.  98,  r.  ^su^ud-im  clearly  refers  to  Aja  marat  rubf.  in  SBP.  J58, 
i=SBH.  J 34  II  4  f.  Note  also  that  Shamash  and  Aja  come  under  Ihe  Ea  pantheon.  SBP.  1^9 
n.  II.  Hence  the  goddess  of  Shuruppak  was  a  type  of  mother  goddess  especially  connected 
with  sunlight.     cUtidili  probably  denotes  a  similar  idea. 

'Var.  KL,  8  IV  ij  ^KA-Dl  nam-en-me  U-SAR-te-mi  Ha.am-dib-dib-ba-{ba  sic!)-(a.  Thus 
we  have  at  last  the  reading  of  the  ophidian  god  KA-DI  of  Dir,  I-iir<a«-;i-ir.  ilr<a;r>.  is  probably 
the  root  sir,  "be  long,"  hence  serpent,  rendered  by  ftm  in  Semitic.  The  Sumerian  and  Semitic 
words  are  not  philogically  connected.  For  KA-DI  as  a  serpent  god  see  Tatnmut  and  Isbtar, 
p.  16  and  1 19  tf.    The  line  corresponds  10  SBP.  163,  34, 

'A  variant  of  sumugan  <  jiiinu*OB  =  ""CiVro,  god  of  the  cattle  and  son  of  Shamash,  CT. 
34,  33,  1 13;  ASKT.  10;  Rev.  10 ''Gira  dumu  ^Babbar  sab  tiig-nam-ma-gt,  "Gira  son  of  Shamash, 
shepherd  of  whatsoever  exists."  sumu-(an  contains  the  root  gaweladu,  "10  beget,"  and  is 
connected  with  la-gan  {^mu'allidu)  also  a  title  of  Gira,  BM.  38177  and  sakkan  (  <  la-gan)  a 
dialectic  variant,  81-8-30,  3;  Rev.  8.     See  also  Tkuheau-Dancin,  RA.  i  1,  104. 

'  Since  Gira  is  the  god  of  cattle,  ^ig-gdl  should  be  rendered  by  iflJa,  cattle,  a  passage  which 
tends  lo  show  that  11  R.  34,  23  has  no  sign  broken  away  before  jig-gdl—aiH  (bHlum).  domestic 
animals.  Also  Dglaporte,  Calalogue  No.  Z98,  has  a  similar  title  of  Gira,  jig-gdl  Idr-ldr-hi, 
he  who  makes  fat  the  cattle.  [For  fijr  =  i^u!!ll,  see  Syl.  C.  7;  and  IV  R.  10,  36.I  This  line 
corresponds  to  KL.  8  IV  11,  'fir  mal-aniu  igi-bar  [6,]  na-dtn-ma-l&k-tiilt  la. 


,,  Google 


lyS  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

'3-  len-gi\-im-du  ab-si~im-ma^  e-pa-         13.  Engidu,^  who  causes  the  canals 
rr*  gi-ir*  [ie-gu-]nu  ma-a^    ab  and  water  courses  to  lave  the 

corn;    who  causes  the  gunu- 
grain  to  thrive. 

7'84 
Liturgy  of  the  Cult  of  Ishme-Dagan 

This  single  column  liturgical  text  of  sixty-five  lines  belongs 
to  the  corpus  of  ritualistic  hymns  and  prayers  written  for  the 
cult  of  the  deified  Ishme-Dagan,  fourth  king  of  the  dynasty  of 
isin,  who  enjoyed  an  unusually  long  reign  of  twenty  years. 
Two  other  well-preserved  liturgies  of  his  cult  have  been  found, 
Ni.  4563  published  in  this  volume  and  one  in  the  Berlin  col- 
lection, published  by  Zimmern  in  his  Kulilieder  No.  200.  The 
latter  text,  like  Ni.  7184,  is  a  single  column  tablet,  but  contains 
only  the  twelfth  strophe  or  melody  of  a  long  liturgy.  In  our 
text  and  in  KL.  200  the  king  is  said  to  be  the  son  of  Enlil,  but 
in  Ni.  4563  the  god  Dagan  is  his  father. 

The  present  hymn  clearly  originated  in  the  temple  schools 
of  Lagash,  since  that  city  and  its  temples  figure  chiefly  in  the 
local  references.  This  explains  also  why  the  mother  goddess 
Bau,  divine  patroness  of  Lagash,  is  praised  as  the  divinity 

'  abhm  >  ablin  >  ahiinu,  "ear  of  corn." 

'  So  also  ''en-gi-du,  KL.  8  IV  1 1,  but  SBP.  ]6«,  27,  ^cn-ki-im-du.  For  the  rise  of  a  phonetic 
nasal,  cf.  lagliinlar^saglitar—pd^tdu.  This  deity  is  the  well-known  ""Ettkidu,  related  to 
Gira,  patron  of  cattle,     A  description  of  him  is  given  in  the  first  book  of  the  Epic  of  Gilgamish, 

Col.  II  j5-4i  andin  K.  10164,  i-6(iA,  25,  }8o)  whereheiscalled/aifli-^-pira-flftl'' I. 

and  cf.  CT.  24,  28,  ;8  where  both  titles  follow  Taimetum,  hence  related  to  the  Nebo  group. 
Since  the  theologians  reganJ  him  as  specially  connected  with  canals  the  name  probably  means 
biiu  ia  irsitam  ttda^^adu.  "lord  that  makes  (he  earth  fruitful." 

'  SBP.  162,  17  umun-t-pi-a-ra.     ra,  ri  are  employed  here  for  the  conjunclion  and, 

'jiV  =  (iiii.  WD.  seeSum.  Cr.  3t7Ui>7).  Note  Var,  KL,  8  1V  11.  jti-aft-iim-a  c  fi-ri*,  where 
pa,  pi,  is  omitted.  For  (i>  =  "to  wash,  lave,"  cf.  gi-ir,  Var.  of  i\r  =  talfa>iu,  "wash,"  SBH,  111, 
tl,  iag-sh-sir  (or  sar-sar),  glossed  kar-l!at{J)=Tummuku,  RA.  lo,  77,  )7.  Voc.  Berlin  2559 
'  }9  gives  ;i;ri(  <  gir-gtr)  ={ab&.     la-al  on  the  edge  is  unintelligible, 

'Var.  KL.  8  IV  11  md-a. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I79 

who  cares  for  the  deified  ruler.  The  tablet  was  found  at 
Nippur,  a  fact  which  reveals  once  more  the  practice  of  borrowing 
well-known  and  popular  choral  compositions  from  the  various 
cults.  Although  the  statue  or  image  of  the  worshipped  king  is 
not  mentioned,  as  in  the  case  of  a  similar  hymn  to  idin-Dagan,^ 
nevertheless  lines  26-7  of  the  reverse  make  evident  the  situation. 
Our  hymn  was  sung  by  the  choir  in  the  presence  of  a  statue  of 
ishme-Dagan  in  a  chapel  at  Lagash  and  later  at  Nippur. 


Obverse 


1.  ninni-ila 

2.  ligiri?)^  ''ba-ii  gu-gal  nin 

ur-iag 

3.  dingir  sumugan  me-mag-a  iu-du 

....  il-Iu-  -gal-lu 

4.  su-un-sU-na       sal-iid       nin-gal 

''[']iag-ta-<ie-aga 

5.  dumu-an-na  tur  KA-pad-de 

bur. . .  .iu-ni-si 


6.  tiin-a-iu-gal    sag-gig-ga    lu-ti-li 
lit  U-iud 


7.  lu-gal  geWm  kat-e  se  KU*  kalama 
lu-a 


8.  iag-lal-tuk   iitam-sud   kalam-ma 
nin-gar 


1.  Lady  that  beareth  awe 

2.  Princess  Bau,  the  peeress,  lady 

the  heroic 

3.  She    that    keepeth    the    great 

decrees  of  Sumugan,  the  far- 
famed  bearer  of 

4.  The     vigorous,     the     faithful 

woman,  the  illustrious  lady, 
goddess  N I N  {?)-iagtadeaga. 
5.  Celestial  daughter,  she  that 
cboseth  the  offspring  of  the 
sheepfolds,  she  whose  hand 
filleth  the bowl. 

6.  Great    queenly    healer  of   the 

dark-headed  people,  she  that 
gave  life  to  man,  she  that 
created  man. 

7.  She  that  apportions  wine,  beer 

and  barley-meal  (?)  unto  the 
Land 

8.  She  that  possesseth  a  solicitous 

heart,  compassionate  cow  of 
the  Land,  lady  who 


'  Published  by  Radau,  Miscil.  Ko.  3;  sec  Sum.  Gr.,  p.  196, 
'  Perhaps  Uitig  of  TVN  confused  with  teliii  of  UR. 
•  Perhaps  TUD  or  NIN.     This  lil[e  of  Bau  is  unknown  10  1 
<  For  lid? 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM. — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


9.  ''en-Iil  lugal  kur-kur-ra-[ge] 

10.  \u-nam-nir  en  nam-iar-ri 

i\.  ei  nibru-ijti)  dur-an-ki-a  enim- 

gal-bi  be-m-{  dUg        ] 

12.  e-kur  lagin-na  mi-ni-im-mai-en 

igila 

13.  sa-ku-kalig-ga     ^nu-nam-nir-ra- 

[^e  me-en] 

14.  an-gub-ba' i-kuT-ra  ka-pad -sum- 

mu  gH 

15.  ''eh-Ul-ld  i-am  a-ma^-a-ni  me-en 

a-gub-ba-ni*   [me-en] 

16.  sii-na  iita-ba  ki-lal  a-ju-  ui 

1 7.  ''nu-nam-nir  nun  kur-kur-ra-ge 

18.  nam-sag-{u-mai^  an-ki  iu-^u  im- 


19.  mu-un-ila-en  nam-nin  a 

i-ia-ra  mu-ra-an-sum 

30,  a-a  ugu*-iu  an  dingir-ma^-e  mu- 
mu  ME-ZiD'  mi-ri-in-mu 

21.  ur-sag  ''en-lil-ld  ^nin-gir-su  gtt- 
lam  iii-ma-ra-an-sum 


Enlil  king  of  the  lands, 
Nunamnir,  lord    that    decrees 

late, 
In  the  house  of  Nippur.'  band  of 

heaven  and  earth  their  great 

words  [spoke.] 
In  brilliant  Ekur  they  made  thee 

far  famed,  that  eyes  cannot 

[support  ibee].* 
The  mighty  net-weapon  of  Nu- 
namnir, [thou  art]. 
Sentinel  of  Ekur,  that  givest 

bread  io  eat,  that [thou 

art]. 
Of  Enlil  in  the  temple  his  right' 

hand  thou  art;  his  left  hand 

thou  art. 
His  shining  weapon  is  suspended 

at  thy  side. 
Nunamnir  prince  of  the  lands. 
Mighty  dignity  in  heaven  and 

earth  he  gave  into  thy  hand. 
Heexalteth  thee;  lordship  unto 

the   house   of   thy    seed    he 

hath  bestowed  for  thee. 
Thy  paternal  father,  Anu  the 

far-famed  god,  hath  clothed 

thee  with  the  robe  of  a  sage. 
The  champion  of   Enlil,   Nin- 

girsu.  hath  caused  to  be  given 

unto  thee  a  wife. 


1  Addressed  to  Ihe  king  Ishme-Dagan. 

'an-guMa  =  ina  {>iih^  hatamSHH.  originally  said  of  Ehe  stars  which  stand  as  sentinels,  CT. 
J3.  I,  33,  Then  as  sentinel,  guard.  CT.  24,  14,  67;  j;,  6.  1;;  BL.  19;.  )}.  For  the  Semitic 
rendenng  see  IV  R.  281J  7. 

'Liierally  "mighty." 

'  See  Sum.  Gr.  218.  gub  2. 

•Cf-  BL.  I4J. 

'Cf  Clay.  «<>«/-  5J.  "8. 

'  A  title  probably  muMn  patfi,  a  kind  of  councillor,  CT.  31,  19,  1 5  f.;   34.  9  ajid  1 };  and 

aid.  Col.  II 30. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS 


22.  S-ninnli    uru-a{ag    ii    numun-t 

sag. . .  .mu-ri-PA+KAB+DU 

23.  tagai-{ki)     iir-su-iki)     dim-gal- 

kalam-ma-ka 

24.  i-malga-sud^    kidur-kenag-ia 

25.  sil-siT-sir^  e  nam-nin-a-ka  bara- 

mag-iu  mi-tti-ri 

26.  kiduT~mag-itt'  dat*-an-ki    lagal- 

{ki)-a  im-si-lu-lu-e-ne-el* 

27.  nin  lag-dib*    bar-ni  lu-nu-teg-ga 


28.  dumuan-na    nin-gal  nig-nam-ju 

29.  iul  me-gim-ldf  nun  ''il-me-  ''da- 

gan  dumu  ''en-iil-ld-ge 

30.  ki-el  ama  ''ba-ii  tgi-^id  mu-it-bar 

natn-dug  mu-ni-iar  ud-ti-la  i-a- 


22.  And   EninnQ  in  the  holy  city 

he  presented  ....  unto  thee 
as  the  abode  of  (thy)  seed. 

23.  In  Lagash  and  Gir-su  metropolis 

of  the  Land, 

24.  The  house  of  wisdom,  thy  be- 

loved abode, 

25.  Silsirsir,"  temple  of  lordship,  thy 

magnificent  hall,  he  founded. 

26.  Thy  magnificent  dwelling  place, 

band  of  heaven  and  earth,  in 
Lagash  they  have  placed. 

27.  The  queen  that  holds  universal 

power,  whose  side  is  unattain- 
able. 

28.  Celestial  daughter,  great  queen 

that  knoweth  anything  what- 
soever, 

29.  The  mighty  one,  healer  of  the 

limbs  of  the  prince,  Ishme- 
Dagan  son  of  Enlil, 

30.  The  maiden,  mother  Bau,  has 

looked  with  faithful  eyes  upon 
thee,  good  things  decreed  in 
order  that  life  of  days  may 
go  forth  forever. 


'  See  also  Ni,  4566,  4  in  this  volume. 

I  In  Gudea.  St.  E  6.  16  i-sit-iir-iir,  temple  or  Bau  in  Lagash.  See  SAK.  Index,  p.  368, 
and  RA.  10,  joi,  ti.  r.  A  Berlin  vocabulary  renders  sil-sir-sir  by  unuru.  sunnu^u,  unnuku, 
tukittt,  alley,  narrow  street.     Hetice  a  long  tiarrow  chapel  of  Bau  in  the  temple  EninnO. 

'  dar  here  in  the  sense  of  band,  for  Ihe  first  time;  in  any  case  connected  with  lar  in  tarkuUa. 
(See  Sum.  Cr.  108  dar  a.) 

'  A  double  plural,     ei  probably  indicates  the  past  tense  here. 

'Literal'y,  "holds  the  boundary,"  then  to  possess,  encompass.  nam-SuI'l/i  iag-dib-b<t, 
possessing  heroic  strength,  Raoau,  Misctl.  5,  1;  see  also  BE.  39,  r  II  10  and  II  end;  KL.  199,  1; 
200,4. 

'Semitic  mudammi^al  binSti.  she  that  makes  the  limbs  healthy,  a  title  which  harmonizes 
with  Bau,  goddess  of  healing.  See  also  Genoutluc,  Drebem,  AO.  5501  Rev.  I  end.  But  the 
title  is  also  employed  for  Shala,  the  western  goddess,  CT.  15.  10,  2y  The  variant  me-dint'ld, 
is  employed  for  Shala,  1 1  R,  57a  )6;    RA.  1  j.  1  r  and  KL.  34  1 1  4. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


a-    sud-    da-    dm' 

ima  ''ba-it  nun  ''H-me-  'da-gan 

dumu  ''en-lil-ld-ra 

nam-til    ud-sud-du    sutn-mu- 

dam 


31.  It  is  a  long  salbar]. 

32.  The  mother  Bau  unto  Ihe  prince 

Ishme-Dagan  son  of  Enlil  life 
unto  distant  days  hath  given. 


33-  i'HH'^^  ^^-^«' 


2-kam 


33.  This  is  the  interlude  for  the 
long  salbar]. 


Reverse 

[ki]  nam-til-la        i  ^ en-Ml-la-lu  1. 


.  [     I       UD-W       ka-iar-Ug-ia  2. 

gab-na  im-mi-lab 
.  ab{?)  ''ii-me-^da-gan  ja-e  im-me-  3. 

ni'lud 
.  lugal-min  ttam-til-la-da  im-da-e-  4. 

gab 
.  kur-gal   'en-lil-ra    \^-ki-mu-ne-  5. 

g<il 
1  ''mu-ul-iil  u-mu-un-gal  kur-  6. 

kur-ra 

7.  ^il-me-'^da-gan-na  na-Sm  be-ib-tar  7. 

mu-. . . .    ib-. . . .    e-ne-ir  mu- 
ne-dug 

8.  ''en-lil  lugal  kur-kur-ra-ge  igi-{id-  8. 

til-la  sag-ki  Idg-ga-ni  mu-un- 
ii-in-bar 

9.  ^il-me-da-gan-na  nam-mu-ni-ib-  9. 

tar-ri 
10.  "^gu-ja    me-ur-&T    aga     ji-ud-  10. 

sud-du-a    ^ad-^al-kalag    gi-ni 
ui-ai-a  idg-e 


In  the  place  of  life,  temple  of 

Enlil. 
good    thoughts   in   his 

breast  multiplied. 
Thee  oh  father{?)  Ishme-Oagan 

he  created. 
A  king  thou  art  and  with  life 

thou  hast  been  firmly  fixed. 
Unto*  the  great  mountain  Enlil 

Father  Enlil  great  lord  of  the 

lands 
For   Ishme-Dagan  decreed   the 

fate, for  him  he 

ordered. 
Enlil  king  of  the  lands  cast  the 

faithful  eyes  of  life  of  his 

bright  face  upon  him. 
For    Ishme-Dagan    he   decreed 

fate. 
A  throne  that  proclaimeth  laws, 

a  crown  that  prolongeth  the 

breath    of    life,    a    precious 

scepter   that   conducteth   ibe 

faiibful  in  unison. 

7  deified  kings.     The  full  form  is  sa-bar- 
E.  19,  I  I  ;.     The  rubric  occurs  also  in 


which  case  Enlil  is  the  subjec 


'  A  liturgical  rubric  found  as  yel  only  in  liturgies 
iud-da-dm,  KL.  199  I  ig;  cf.  bar-md-da-dni.  Raoau, 
KL.  199  II  34  and  BE,  39,  1  III  aj. 

'  See  above,  p.  141,0,  1. 

^MA-GUNU.S\\.  J767. 

*  Perhaps  ra  is  here  the  demonstrative  pronoun,  li 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERtAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


.83 


1 1 .  nun  ^ii-me-''da-gan  nam-e-el  ie- 

lar 

12.  id    idigna    id    jimbir-e    ^en-gdl 

a-du^i?)-ia    gu-mu-ra-ab-tum 
gi-bi  ga-ra-sug-e 

13.  gii-bi  kal-u-bi-e  gu-mu-ra-an-md 

sU  ga-ra-ab-lal 

14.  garak  "Har-ba  ial-e  g&-e  ki-gu- 

tnu-ra-ni-ib-ui 

15.  a-^ar  jid-bi'  ie-gu-nu^  ia-ra-ab- 

md  gAr-bi  ga-ra-dub-dub 


16.  tUT    ia-TO-du-du" 


2mai    ga-ro' 
dagal-dagal 


.  Be  decreed  unto  the  prince 
Ishme-Dagan  for  his  destiny. 

.  May  the  Tigris  and  the  Eu- 
phrates bring  thee  abundance 

and  their  banks  be 

full  for  thee. 

.  May  their  banks  produce  for 
thee  drink  and  food,  and  bring 
thee  gladness. 

.  In  thecellarsof  thegardensmay 
the  honey  reach  the  edges. 

.  May  the  field  produce  for  thee 
^uKli-grain  unfailingly  and 
may  the  granaries  be  heaped 
for  thee. 

.  May  the  stalls  be  filled  with 
increase  for  thee  and  the 
sheepfolds  be  spacious  for 
thee. 

.  May  he  make  famous  the  im- 
perial power. 

.  May heexalthigherthanheaven 
the  rights  of  princes. 

.  May  the  lower  land  and  the 
upper  land  even  unto  the 
borders  of  the  earth  bring 
tribute  unto  thee. 

.  May  the  Euphrates  like  the 
sunshine  go  up  unto  the  Tigris. 

,  Not  shall  the  serpent  seize  thy 
sacrificial  cakes  in  holy  Ekur.' 

.  Enlil  decreed  this  for  his  fate. 

.  Unto  the  king  in  Ekur  a  mighty 
na-sum  scepter  he  gave. 

'  See  5iim.  Gr.  571. 

'  See  OLZ.  1911,  447;   Jastrow,  Rtlifion  11  71  j.     The  ;unw  grain  has  noi  been  idenlilied. 
'See  du  do)  in  Sum.  Gr.,  p.  jii  and  d&-d6  —  luma;iu^H,  rich,  RA.  10,  75,  8. 
'  Note  the  unusual  method  of  writing  buranun. 

*  We  have  here  an  addilionat  reference  10  ihe  serpent  adversary,  which  occurs  aJio  in  another 
iiiurgy  to  [shme-Dagan,  Ni.  4S6».     See  above,  p.  138,  n.  4. 
'Cf,  above,  I.  1  [. 

■Cr.  ZlHMERN.   KL.    199  ii  IJ. 


17.  nam-lugal-la  mu  gu-mu-ni-mag 

18.  nam-nun-na  sag-an-iu  ge-ni-ila 


19.  sig  igi-nim  kur-iag-til-la-bi  gu-un 

iu-mu-Ta-ab-ila 


20.  htranuf^    ud-gim   idigna  ge-ni- 

in-i 

21.  nin4aba-iu   i-kur-iagin-na   mui 

nam-ba-an-lum-mu 

22.  en-lil-li    nam-iA  mu-ni-in-tar' 

23.  lugal-la  i-kuT-ta  Sibir'-mag  mu- 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


24.  Tiir  mu-un-gal  enim  ^en-iU-ld-ia 
gah-iu-gar  nu-mu-un-tuk 


25.  glT-il-il-la 


im-gub-gub-bi 


26,  ddg-gal-ma^    ki-dur    nam-lugal- 
la-ka  im-^ma-da-an-tur-tur 


27.  bara    ajag    jagin-na    d&r-be-in- 
gar'  e-gal  mu-un-[  ] 


24.  He  became  majestic  and  by  the 

command  of  Enlil  no  rival  he 
had. 

25.  He  is  given  exalted  station,  he  is 

adored. 

26.  Into  the  vast  dwelling,  the  far- 

famed  habitation  of  royalty 
he  was  made  to  enter. 

27.  In  the  chapel  of  gold  and  lapis 

lazuli  he  takes  his  seat.     The 
palace 


28.  sal-jid  dumu-an-na  ^en-lil  enim- 

ma-[ni-ta]  bara-aiag  {agin-\na 
duT-u-bi-in-gar] 

29.  ki-el    ama    ^ba-^    dumu-an-na 

^en-lil bara-ajag 

hagin-na ]ab-bi 

30.  ^il-me-'^da-gan  dumu  ''en-lil-[ld]- 

ra  nam-iil  ud-sud-du  sag-[e-ei 
PA]-KAB-DU-a-ni-ib 

3 1 .  UTU    en-bi-im\ Yba-U- 

kam 

32.  en  ei-bar  galam  dingiT-Ti-le-n]e 

sig-nim-ma  uru-iub-bi 


28.  Oh    faithful    woman,    celestial 

daughter,  by  the  command 
of  Enlil  in  the  chapel  of  gold 
and  lapis  lazuli  [cause  bint 
to  sit]. 

29.  Oh  maiden  mother  Bau,  celes- 

tial daughter,  Enlil 

in  the  chapel  of  gold  and  lapis 
lazuli 

30.  Unto  Ishme-Dagan  son  of  Enlil 

life  unto  far  away  days  grant 
as  a  gift. 

31.  Of  the  city  he  is  its  lord  and  he 

is  the of  Bau. 


32.  Oh  lord  by  the  profound  wis- 
dom of  the  gods  shepherd  the 
cities  in  the  south  and  north. 


A  Liturgy  to  Innine,  the  Mother  Goddess 

The  fragment  Ni.  475  contains  only  the  first  melody  of  a 
long  liturgy  to  Innini.  Its  title  eguHa  kibi  Mena  gi-gi-mu  does 
not  occur  in  the  Assyrian  catalogues,  nor  has  it  been  found  in 
any   previously   published   text.      Lines    13-19   are   identical 

'  For  the  verb  dir-gat  see  Meek  No.  8j  rev.  4.     For  the  noun  dar-gar  see  RA.  13,  8j,  41. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERJAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS  185 

with  K.  41  Obv.  II  3-15,  also  an  Innini  liturgy.'  But  the 
melody  has  the  greatest  similarity  to  No.  31  of  Reisner's 
Sumerisch-Babyloniscbe  Hymnes,  of  which  it  forms  an  almost 
complete  duplicate.  Apart  from  the  contents  the  text  is  unusu- 
ally interesting,  since  it  has  a  rubric  in  Sumerian  at  the  top  of 
the  tablet  and  a  Semitic  rubric  at  the  end  of  the  first  melody 
where  an  interlude  of  one  line  occurs  between  the  first,  and 
second  melodies. 


kui-la    an-ga-im         an-ga-dm 

Oh  sigh  indeed;  indeed  sigh. 

kui-it 

1.. 

i-guUla  ki-bi 

me-na^  gi-gi-mu 

'■ 

As  for  the  temple  destroyed 
how  long  until  it  be  restored 
to  its  place? 

2. 

nu-gig-an-na 

dingir    ga-la-an 

2. 

Heavenly  virgin,"  divine  queen 
of  heaven,  as  for,  etc. 

3- 

kur-sun-sun 

ga-la-an  i-an-na 
\mu\ 

?■ 

She  that  shatters  the  mountains, 
queen  of  E-anna.  as  for,  etc. 

4- 

i  ma-mu-da 

ma-du-a[mu\ 

4- 

The  temple  which  had  been 
built  like  a  dream,  how  long. 

5.  Mni  ma-mu-da      ma-du-a[mu\ 

6.  i  tuT-amai-gim     lu-lu-a  mm* 


7.  e-ji-gim  amai-gim      lu-a  r< 


8.  bur-gul-e      bur  ba-an-gul-la  mu 


5.  The  city  which  had  been  built 

like  a  dream.*  how  long,  etc.? 

6.  The  temple  which  was  made 

wealthy   like  a  stall  and  a 
sheepfold,  how  long,  etc.? 

7.  Which  like  the  flocks  and  sheep- 

folds  was  made  wealthy,  how 
long,  etc? 

8.  Which  the  engraver  carved  as 

a  vase,  how  long,  etc.? 


'Published  in  PSBA.  i89«,  pL  I,  II. 
'See  Shbi.  Ct.,  p.  177. 
•a.  SBH60.  ai. 

'Cf.  ibid..  Obv.  7.  Ui4u<lnm4um-'dulhi:  d.  also  IV  R,  1 
fhii  duUili,  Sm.  ;36,  g. 


R-33I  9<>6i,  and  r-;t /u-tt— 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM— BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


9.  ^agin^-dim-e         jagin'      ba-an- 

ditn-ma''    mu 

10,  kd'bi-la  ki       ii-di  mw' 

I  i .  ki-lu-we-DU*     na-dm-mulu  mu 

12.  ma-dm-ma-ra*      kur-kur-ra  mu 

ij.  ni-du-dm      kur  in-ga-dii-dm 

14.  ba-gul-gul      kur  ba-da-gul-gul 

15.  dam-tdg-ga        kur-ri    ba-da-ab- 

ga' 

16.  dumul-idg-ga       kur-ri  ba-da-ab- 

ga^ 

17.  ad'-gal-bi       lu-nu-d^-du 

18.  me-gal-bi  i  dm        -gi 

19.  me-bi  al-Ur-iir  ub  ba-ra-an-gub 

20.  billudu-bi  ag-ba-da-an-kur'"  bal- 

bi"  ba-kiir-kur 

21.  i-ii-da  bal-bi  bal-kur-ra^'^  iu-bal- 

aga-a-bi^^ 


9.  Which  the  jeweler  worked  like  a 
stone. 

10.  In  whose  gate  is  the  place  of 

admiration,  how  long,  etc.? 

11.  The  assembling  place  of  the 

people,  how  long,  etc.? 

12.  The  house  of  convocation  of  the 

lands,  how  long,  etc.? 

13.  It  hastened,  unto  the  foreign 

land,  yea  hastened.' 

14.  It  perished,  yea  unto  the  foreign 

land  perished.* 

15.  The  good  wife  unto  the  foreign 

land  was  taken. 

16.  The  good  child  unto  the  foreign 

land  was  taken. 

17.  Its  great  festivals  are  not  exe- 

cuted. 

18.  Its  great  rituals  in  the  temple 

are  withheld. 
[9.  Its   decrees    which    guide    are 
placed  in  disuse. 

20.  Its  rites  are  annulled,  its  store 

is  diverted. 

21.  Of  the  faithful  temple,  its  store 

the  plunderer  has  decimated. 


■  Var.  [d, 

•The  Semitic  version  in  SBH.  60  Ob  v.   i6  completely  misunderstood  the  Sumerian:   mu 

cates  that  iKe  second  part  of  I,  1  is  to  be  repeated. 

'Var.  i-^id  ki-lti-SU(?).     Reisneh's  copy  is  probably  incorrect 

^  \'3r.  inigm-mai-ra  =  biluUliit-ru.     According  lo  our  texl  Br.  9151  has  also  the  reading 


'The  Semitic 


n  SBH,  60  Rev 


s  hardly  correct;  also  K.  41  Obv.  II 


s  the 


'Var.  K,  41  II  -J  kdr-ri  ba-da-ab-g(iin  =  nakri  iHalal. 

■L.  16  omitted  on  K.  41. 

'Text  /ID  clearly.     Var.  (;«(?)- (*iiii-[nM]  is  better. 

'"The  Semitic  rendering  in  SBH.  60  Rev.  17  is  illegible, 

"  Note  the  gutiu  of  BAL;  also  in  I.  31,     The  Semitic  translation  is  probably  iap-ka. 

"Var.  ba-da-ltiiT-Ti^iap-l J,  sic^ 

"Var.  lu-bal  ba-ab-ii-in-ngn. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON— SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL   TEXTS  I07 

22.  i-^id-a  mu'gi-ga  nam-tne-a  til-Id-  22.  In  the  faithful  temple  darkness 

4fn  ba-ni-in-giiT  is  and  lo!  it  is  turned  over  to 

the  wind, 

23.  ka-lu-£u-nu  i-za-ma-ru  23.  Their  psalmists  shall  sing. 


A  Psalm  to  a  Mythical  Musical  Instrument,  the 
Trumpet(?)  of  Enlil,  Ni.   13877 

Ni.  13877,  a  large  double  column  tablet,  contains  about  120 
lines  concerning  a  subject  of  fascinating  Interest,  a  legend  of  a 
musical  instrument  employed  by  Enlil,  father  of  humanity,  to 
decree  fate,  to  sound  the  call  of  battle,'  to  terrify  the  foe  and 
pronounce  their  destruction,  to  utter  sweet  music  in  the  temple 
of  Enlil  at  Nippur  by  day  and  by  night.  This  musical  instru- 
ment is  mentioned  under  a  longer  name,  al-gar  in  Gudea,  Cyl. 
B  10,  ir,  where  it  is  placed  in  the  "harem"  of  the  temple 
EninnO  at  Lagash,  the  mythical  bridal  chamber  of  Ningirsu 
and  Bau.  The  reverse  line  10  of  our  text  mentions  the 
reed  MAL-GAR  of  Ninlil.  One  is  led  to  infer  that  this 
legendary  instrument  of  Enhl  was  one  of  the  sacred  symbols 
that  belonged  to  the  bridal  chamber  of  Ekur,  and  that  the 
legend  was  inherited  by  the  cult  of  Ningirsu,  son  of  Enlil,  at 
Lagash.  In  a  hymn  to  Idin-Dagan  and  the  mother  goddess 
Innini,  celebrating  the  mythical  marriage  of  that  deified  king 
with  the  goddess,  the  singer  proclaims  that,  "With  the  instru- 
ment, wailing  voice  of  the  storm ,  yea  with  the  instru- 
ment al-gar  whose  sound  is  sweet,  I  will  speak  unto  thee." 
But  this  instrument  is  nowhere  else  mentioned  in  cuneiform 
literature  as  one  that  was  actually  employed  by  humans  in  their 

'  See  Ihe  Rev.  Col.  I  end  ki-mi,  in  Ihe  place  of  baltle. 


,,  Google 


100  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

music  and  we  may  retain  the  statement  concerning  its  purely 
mythical  character.  The  edge  of  the  tablet  carries  a  short 
colophon  scratched  upon  the  clay  after  the  text  had  been  com- 
pleted and  probably  served  as  a  library  index.  It  reads 
ku-lu-u  al-kam,  "It  is  a  psalm  of  meditation  concerning  the 
trumpet(?)." 

The  Nippur  collection  contains  this  long  text  on  a  series 
of  smaller  tablets  of  which  the  author  published  one  in  the 
Constantinople  Collection,  Cstple.  Ni.  6(6  in  Historical  and 
Religious  Texts,  No.  lo.'  That  tablet  carries  lines  Obv.  1  19- 
11  14  of  our  text,  hence  it  must  be  the  second  tablet  of  the 
redaction  to  which  it  belongs.  A  small  fragment  from  a  dupli- 
cate will  be  found  on  the  last  plate  of  this  volume,  Ni.  [0215. 

Col.  1 

1.  [  \mg-d-k-e pana-an-gami-  1 decrees(?)  with  glory  truly 

in-    e  he  exalted. 

2.  [         ]nam'iaT-Ta-na  iu-nu-bal-  2 whose  injunction  is  not 

e-ne                    changed. 
5.  [        ]Mu-un-ba-  ab-  ia-  i-di  3 he  caused  to  go  forth. 

4.  an[  ]du-ne    sag    na-an-ga  4.  In  heaven. .  as  a  gift  truly  he 

ma{?yan-    jig  gave. 

5.  ki[  \-ne  sag  na-an-ga  ma-  5.  In  earth as  a  gift  truly  he 

tin-sig  gave. 

6. DU    a    sag-    sar-  6.  To 

sar'^i 

7 SAL+ME"   u-nam-  7 the priestess  sus- 

mi-in-lal  pended(?). 

8.  gii-al-e   mu-un-gar   babbar   ib-i  8.  The  instrument  AL  he  caused 

to    be    instituted;     the    sun 
arose. 

9.  ii-kar  mu-un-du  nam-al-tar-ri  9.  The  fixed-  tax  he  made;    fate 

he  decreed. 

'  I  misuTiderslood  this  lexl  in  my  edition,  pp.  3J  f. 
•Cf.  saf-sar-iar  =  rummuku.  RA.  ro,  77,  57. 
■Semitic  nadltu.  v.  Landsberger,  ZDMG.  69,  ;o6. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN 

gil-al-e  il-e-da  si-ba-<^id-e  lo. 

''en-lil-ii   al-a-ni   jag-sal   ba-an-  1 1 . 

diii 
al-a-nil        ]gi-ga  sag-bi  na  tagin  (2. 

gii-al  i-a-ni  a^ag-el        ]ga-dm  13. 


gii-al4a-ni[ 


]-ba     engar- 
{agin-kam^ 


15.  gii-bj*   gtid-si-di    bad-gal   ed-di- 

dam 

i6,  en-e  al  mu-un-lid  nam-mi[  ] 


17.  ki-in-gin a^ag [  ] 

18.  sag  nam-lU-gSlu'lub[  ] 

19.  en-Ul-iu  halam-tna-ni  ki-mu-un- 

h'in-lkin-kin?] 

20.  sag-gig-ga-ni'-Iu  igi-jid  nam-nti 

in-bar 

21.  a-nun-na    mu-un-na-lag-l^g-gi- 

ei 

22.  ^u-ba'  ka-ba  mu-  un-  ni-  gal 

23.  en-4il-a-Ta   ma-a    mu-ni-in-^id- 

e-ne 

24.  kalam  sag-gig-ga  al  mu-un-da- 

bi^-ne 


LITURGICAL  TEXTS  I09 

He  gave  directions  for  carrying 

the  instrument  //£.. 
Enlil    sang   the  praise  of   his 

instrument  the  AL. 
His  AL whose  head  is 

of  lazuli. 
The    instrument    AL    in    his 

temple,  the  pure,  was 

His  instrument  the  AL  whose 

was  like  the. . .  .of  a 

healthy  fanner, 
Its  voice  like  that  of  a  horned 

bull  over  the  great  wall  arose. 
The  lord   on   the  AL   recited 

in    numbers(?) faU    he 


1 7.  Sumer 

18.  The    face    of    mankind    with 

brightness  [be  caused  to  sbine]. 

19.  Unto  Enlil  his  land  [gave  heed]. 

20.  Upon   his  dark-headed    people 

he  cast  a  kindly  gaze. 

21.  The  Anunnaki  hastened  thither. 

22.  Their  hands,  their  mouths,  he 

opened  (?) 

23.  Unto  Enlil  adoration  they  of- 

fered in  fidelity. 

24.  Unto    the   land    of  the  dark- 

headed  people  destiny  they 
uttered.' 


I  Cr.  Ttxies  El.'Sem.,  Vol  t4,  p,  125.  For  (agin  =  eUu,  clean,  briNiant,  applied  lo  persons, 
seeSBP.  158,  5);  CT.  17,4  M  8. 

■  Note  the  distinction  between  the  use  of  bi  and  ni  in  II.  14  I.:  ni  refers  10  Enlil,  a  person, 
and  bi  to  a  thing,  i.  t.,  the  instrument.     See  Sum.  Or.  Ji  39. 

'  Here  begins  line  one  of  Cst,  616. 

*  Var.  *.. 

» Var.  flWi. 

*al^i,  "(o  speak  on  the  instrument  AL,"  is  employed  as  a  synonym  of  nam-tar  in  S,\K. 

mt,  Jlij...  II  ■,. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIA! 


2^.  S/1L+KUm  U-tud-di-  en 

26.  lugd      u-tnd-de-  en 

27.  ''nin-men-na-g^   tud-tud   al-mA- 

28.  lrruis]-sag{?)an-ki-a  et^  nu-nam- 

nir-Tt* 

29.  sag-ji  sag-kalag-  dm 

30.  mU'-ne-ib-  sa-sa 


25.  "By  the  sister'  of  the  lord  ye 

were  created. 

26.  By  the  king  ye  were  created, 

27.  Nininenna  fulfilled  the  creating. 

28.  The  leading  goat  in  heaven  and 

earth,  lord  Nunamnir, 

29.  He  who  is  impetuous,  the  heroic, 

30.  gave  unto  them  a  name. 


Obverse  2 


sag-bi      gu-nu{?)-  dm 

mu-    un-     (ne)-    i-    de-    a 

dingir-Tt-e-ne-ra    PAD-jid    mu- 

un-dub-bi^ 

''en-ki-ge    al-a-ni    {ag-sal-ba-an- 

dug 

5.  ki-el    nidaba  el-bar-ra  ba-an-du 


6.  aJ^-mui  a!^-ajab-ba  iu-mu-ni-gdl 

i-kur  (e)  ''en-lil-ld  gii-al-e  gar-ra- 

dm 

ud-di  \gii]  al-du-e  gig  al-mii-mu 


1.  Their  chief,  whom  like 

2.  He  shall   have  raised   up  for 
them, 

3.  Unto  the  gods  shall  offer  meal 
cakes." 

4.  Enki    sang   the   praise  of   his 
instrument,  the  AL. 

5.  The  maiden  Nidaba  rendered 
advice. 

6.  The  star-like  AL,  the  holy  AL 
she  took  in  her  hand. 

7.  In  Ekur,  temple  of  Enlil  the 
instrument  AL  was  placed. 

8.  By   day    the   AL    shall    utter 

speech,    by    night    the    AL 
shall  give  forth  song. 
9.  nippUT-ki   ki-gar-ra-la   tum-ma-  g.   In  Nippur  the  well  builded,  in 

al-{ki)-a  Tummal, 

'  f.  e..  Arufu,  or  Nintud,  see  PBS.  X,  pt.  i.  p.  17,  n,  j. 

'Var,  Damgalnunna,  wife  of  Enki.  Ninmenna  is  one  of  the  titles  of  Ninlud  the  mother 
goddess,  CT.14,  12,  i8  =  ii,8);  ZA.  iV245,  11;  iV  R.  tja  \^.  We  have  here  evidence  to  trace 
the  origin  of  the  wife  of  Enki  to  the  same  iinmarried  mother  goddess  from  whose  character  atl 
the  great  married  goddesses  were  developed, 

*  Var.  inserts  dingir. 

'  Var.  c. 

'  Var,  da-bi.  The  phrase  occurs  frequently  in  pre-Sargonic  lexis:  PAD-zid  e-dub.  '"he  made 
the  meal-cake  offerings,"  Nih,  ^a  Obv,  II,  Rev,  I,  Also  without  ;ii  in  the  title  of  a  priest, 
Ik-pid-dttb-ba,  "The  offerer  of  sacrificial  cakes,"  DP,  151;   Hussev,  Harvard  Mus.  j  Obv.  |  3, 

'  Vars,  gil-al.     Ni.  loai;  a^ab-bi  iu-^-ari'lidl]. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERUN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS  I9I 

10.  tum-ma'al-iki)   ii-MAL-GAR^  lo.  Tummal,    which    is    the    reed 

ama  *Nin-lil-la-kam  of  mother  Ninlil, 

11.  i-gig  tum-ma-al  ninda  sd-dUg-         n.  In    the  dark  chamber*  of  her 

ga-bi-U^  that *  the  bread  of  their 

fixed  offerings, 

12.  ur-sag    '[Nin-urdiS]    ''en-lil-ra         12.  The  heroic  god  Nin-urasha  for 

1 3.  '"[all  mu-un-da-an-tud-tud*  EnHI     the    instrument     AL 

created. 

14.  maJ  gig  murub  en-na-ia  14.  A  vision  during  the  middle  of 

the  night 

15.  aiog  *nin-Usi-in-na  ''en-HI-ra. . .  rj.  The  holy  goddess  Nin-lsin  unto 

Enlil 

Lines  16-20  are  obliterated.     Lines  21-28  contain  only  a  few  legible 
signs.      Note  lines  21  f„  "The  devastating  storm* the  god  Shulpae 

From  the  mutilated  reverse  no  connected  translation  can  be  made. 
The  tablet  ends  with  the  instructive  lines: 

gii-al  gii-nam-tar-ra  a-a  'ett-lil  The  instrument  AL  is  the  instru- 

ment of  the  decision  of  fate  of 
father  Enlil, 

gii-al  gii  lag-sal-dAg-  ga  The  instrument  AL  is  the  instru- 

ment of  praise. 

'Nidaba  ^ag-  sal  Oh  sing  praise  unto  Nidaba. 


Liturgy  of  the  Tammuz  Wailings 

This  liturgy,  Ni.  6890,  must  have  survived  into  the  late 
Assyrian  and  Babylonian  period,  for  it  appears  in  the  Uturgical 
catalogue  IV  R.  53,  Col.  I  43. 


'Cf.  RTC  304  III  m;   Mvhbman,  BE.  Ill  76,  1. 

'  *ijj«,  PoEBEL,  PBS.  V  106  IV  17;  cf.  i-gfg  l-an-na.  Clay,  Miscil.  36,  16. 
'Cf.  Radau,  Miscel.  4  Rev.  49. 
'lummal,  a  title  of  Ninlil. 

*5o  Ni.  13877.     The  Constpl.  variant  omits  gil-al.     Ni.  loii^  also  omits  giS-al  and  has 
mu-f-f. 

*  For  ud  al4ar  =  iit),u  Jdpinu,  see  RA.  I3,  Tablet  Erech,  m. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


1.  db-gim  gu-de-de  ga-ba-ra-i  edin- 

sti   ga-ba-ra-i 

2.  ntu-gig^    an-na    ga-la-an   an-na 

mht 

3.  kuT-suft'iun    ga-ia-an    i-an-na 

mht 

4.  [an  a/-]  dub-ba  ga-ia-an  gi  par- 

ra  min 

5.  ^lil'ld-\en-na  ga-ia-an  tiir-amai- 

<i'  mht 

6.  [amai-a    •'\da-da  NU-NUNUZ 

Ug-ga 

7.  ^na-na-a  du-]mu  sag^   i-e-     ge 

8.  [  ]  ga-ba-ra-i 

9.  (  ]  ga-ba-ra-i 

10.  (  1  ud-ial-ia-ge 

11 .  [  ]  ga-ba-ra-i 

12.  I  ]  ga-ba-ra-i 


1 .  Like  a  cow  [  will  raise  the  sound 

of  lament,  and  unto  the  field 
(of  Arallu)  I  will  go, 

2.  Sacred  harlot  of  heaven,  queen 

of  heaven  am  I, 

3.  She  that  shatters  the  mountains, 

queen  of  Eanna  am  I. 

4.  She   that   makes   the  heavens 

tremble,  queen  of  the  dark 
chamber  am  1. 
3.  Lillanna  queen  of  the  folds  and 
stalls  am  I. 

6.  Mother  of  the  temple,    Dada 

beneficent  woman,  the  child 
bearing. 

7.  Nana  first  born  daughter  of  Ea. 

8.  [Unto ]  I  will  go  forth. 

9.  [Unto ]  I  will  go  forth. 

10 of  the  morning  light. 

1 1.  [Unto 1  I  will  go  forth. 

12.  [Unto ]  I  will  go  forth. 


Liturgy  to  Nintud  on  the  Creation  of  Man  and 

Woman,  Ni.  14031 
This  small  fragment  probably  belongs  to  a  large  double 
column  tablet  in  the  Mus^e  Imperial  Ottoman,  Ni.  1992  of  that 
collection,  published  in  my  Historical  and  Religious  Texts,  No.  23. 
The  fragment  14031  apparently  forms  part  of  the  upper  right 
corner  of  the  original  tablet,  its  obverse  containing  the  end  of 
section  two  of  the  liturgy  and  its  reverse  the  end  of  section  six. 
The  entire  composition  was  a  liturgy  in  eight  sections  to  Nintud 
creatress  of  mankind,  and  is  inscribed  on  a  prismatic  prayer 

'  See  Tammuj  and  Isblar.  p.  8i.  n.  6. 

>  So  read  also  BL.  46,  f>y,  43.  S. 

*Var$.  have  dumu-sag  i-a-ge,  see  BL,,  p.  lo;,  n.  1. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGOON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS  193 

wheel  in  the  Ashmolean  Museum,  published  in  the  writer's 
Babylonian  Liturgies,  No.  197.  That  text  has  the  formula 
gii-X-kam  at  the  end  of  each  section,  in  which  it  disagrees  with 
the  duplicate  Cstple.  i992+;Phila.  Ni.  14031  which  has  i-X- 
kam}  Not  only  did  the  Nippur  temple  possess  these  two  edi- 
tions of  the  liturgy  on  the  creation  of  man  and  woman,  but  a 
third  edition  written  on  two  or  three  small  tablets  is  known  to 
have  existed  in  the  same  period.  The  last  tablet  of  this  serial 
edition  has  been  published  by  Hugo  Radau  in  his  Miscellaneous 
Sumerian  Texts,  No.  8,  and  translated  in  the  writer's  Sumerian 
Epic  of  Paradise,  p.  19,  note  4.  Unfortunately  the  text  of  this 
most  important  treatise  cannot  be  adequately  restored  from 
the  fragments  now  published. 

Prayers  and  Incantations  of  Shamash-shum-ukin, 
Ni.  1203 

This  important  Semitic  text  contains  a  long  incantation 
against  wizards  and  witches  accompanied  by  a  ritual  which 
continued  for  two  days.  The  unusually  long  incantation 
written  for  SamaS-Sum-uktn  is  based  upon  those  contained  in  the 
great  Maljlu  series,  a  series  in  which  symbolic  magic  by  burn- 
ing images  and  other  objects  in  fire  constitutes  the  characteristic 
rites.  In  fact  nearly  every  line  of  this  prayer  composed  for 
SamaS-Sum-ukin  can  be  paralleled  by  passages  in  the  Maljlu 
series,  many  parts  of  which  are  restored  from  our  text.  The 
chief  feature  of  the  ritual  which  accompanied  this  prayer  is 
the  burning  of  fifteen  images  of  the  various  demons  and  evil 
spirits  which  had  tormented  the  king.  The  tablet  has  already 
formed  the  subject  of  a  popular  article  in  the  Museum  Journal, 
Vol.  VI!,  No.  4. 


y  Google 


university  museum — babylonian  section 
Obverse 


[  ]   bil  dababi-ia^   [ii 

bilit  dababi-ia] 
[  ]bil  Imui-tim-mu'  [i 

bilit  Umttt-iim-mu] 


[ 


I 


]  ep-ta  barta 

! 

h&lu    la]       is-du-ra' 

] 

]-maik-bu-u 

1 
yti-iwnu^N- 


2 my  accuser,  my  fe- 
male accuser, 

3 my  transgressor,  my  trans- 

gressoress, 

4 machination,      rebellion 


]i(ajju{"')  ioimani-iu- 
««.... j  ] 

9.  [ia  ana]  ia-li  kii-pi  ru-^i-e  ru- 

[5W  1 

10.  rSmu*   lAru   Dl-BAL    iibit   pV' 

1  ,         I 

11.  nikii  mipiUim'  KuS-KU-MAL 

ICI-mCm-NA    ID-GUR 
[  1 

12 NE'MI  pant  nt-ii  ie-nu 

^at  Hi  [u        kat]  iUarti 

13.  [^t    ] kat    mamii    kat 

ameliUi  '^|  \? 

1 4.  [        ]  HUL-ZA  mu-kil  rit  limut- 

tint   ii-l  ]ma 

'5-  [  'i'^]  u-lab-''bi-lu  kiiadi  u- 

tar-ri-ru  pi-ia        ?    -bi-^u 


5 all    that    surround     me, 

6.  ......  they  have  commanded . . 

7 their 

8 they  stand,  their  statues 


9.  Who  against  me  sorcery,  venom, 
witchcraft 

10.  Love,  hatred,  coM/tf«/j(7M?  j/H,'ter- 

in^ 

11.  Shortness  of  breath(?),     ?        ? 


12 diitortionf  of  plans,  hand 

of  god  and  hand  of  goddess. 

13.  Hand  of hand  of  the  curse, 

hand  of  man 

14 supporter  of  evil 

15.  My they  have  seized,  my 

neck  they  have  wrung,  my 
mouth  they  have. . . . 

'C(.  Ma^lu  U  46. 

'  Sic!  So  also  Malflu  11  48.  Tallquist  read  iim-mu  as  li-ia,  bul  the  writing  suggests  Ihat 
perhaps  mx  was  read  as  Sumerian.  For  TlM—li.  see  perhaps  V  Raw.  64  III  16,  fa-tii,m) 
'''SamSi.    Set  »]ui  M akin  I  33. 

•C(,  King,  Magic,  7,  54, 

'This  conjecture  of  Meissner  is  supported  by  ufabbil  lapli-ia,  (the  demon)  has  seized  my 
lips.  King,  Mafic  ■}.  Rev.  31. 

* li-tar-Tu-da-a  — nikii  napiltim,  King,  Magic,  li,  ]o8,  variant.  Cf.  also  IV  R,  59^  4,  [bj- 
ki-Vs  na-pii-li. 

'  So  our  text.     Makln  I  97  u-fab-bi-lti. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


195 


16.  My they  have  drawn,  my 

breast  they  have  shattered, 
my  heart  weakened. 

17.  My they     have     bound, 

my  knees  they  have  bound. 

18.  My  god(?)  that  walks  at  my 
side(?)  they  have  seized  awayf 
my  back-bone  they  have  bent. 

19.  My they ;  my 

with    disease   and    pollution 
they  filled  me. 

20.  My  hair  they  have  sheared. 
My  girdle  cord  they  severed. 
My  saliva  they  took. 

2 1 .  They  encompassed  the  earth  at 
my  feet.  The  measure  of 
my  form  they  measured. 

22.  Images  of  me,  be  it  of  tamarisk 
or  cedar,  or  tallow,  or.... 
honey. 

23.  Or  baked  cakes  of  sesame,  or 
bitumen,  or  clay,  or  dough, 

24 lo  they  have  made. 

25.  A  dog  verily  they  caused  me  to 
eat,  a  pig  t  hey  caused  me  to  eat, 
a  bird  of  the  skies'"  they  caused 
me  to  eat,  a  fish  of  the  nether 
sea"  they  caused  me  to  eat. 

'  So  restore  Mdklu  I  58. 

'From  da'Spu,  dlpu.  10  shatter.     So  also  id-i-pu.  Mailu  I  98,     See  also  ZrMMERN,  Rt. 
No.  60,  Obv.  5;   Meissner,  Supplement,  p.  30;   PSBA.  r8,  158.  etc, 

*  So  restore  Mailu  I  99. 

*  The  traces  are  against  this  restoration. 

'  For  mjjfl,  cf.  BA.  Vpl,  IV  184,  74  Sa  limUla  BAbiliimissli,  "who  seizes  away  the  wicked 
of  Babylon."     The  verb  corresponds  to  Arabic  mala'a. 

*  Malflu    I    132   indusu.      The   Babylonian  root  is  malaiu,  Arabic  putlusa,  to  shear,  see 
HoLHA,  Personal  Names  of  the  type /«'«/,  p.  7a.    Also  Tx.  El.  Vol.  14,  p.  70,  a  plant  malasu. 

'Cf.  CT.   17,    1;,  31,  and   King,  Magic   11.  55,       For  maHdaiu,  form,  outhne,  see  also 
K.  3563,  16,  mait-da-ti-ja  lihUt, 

•Cf.  Myhrman.  PBS,  I  ij.  30:  Ma^lu  IV  40,  and  Ebeling,  KTA.  No.  80,  10. 
•Cf.  Myhrman.  PBS.  I  13.31. 

'•  Here  istur  iamt  is  employed  for  unclean  birds  such  as  hawks,  crows,  etc. 
"  nAh  apsl  is  also  employed  for  some  kind  of  unclean  fish. 


1 6.  [  ]'ia  il-dii^u  ir-li^  id-i-pu* 

lib-bi'  MM-Mi-Su 

17.  [  ]-ia    ik-su-u  bir- 

ki-ia  ik-sa-u 

18.  lilHnU"  a-li-ka[idi-ia?]*u-hm- 

su-u??  efen-iiri-ia  i^-pu-pu 

'9-  [  i-J**  it-^a{?)-na-du{  ]-ia 
man-ga  lu-'u-4am  H-mal-lu- 
in-ni 

20.  iarti-ia   im-lu-iu*  ulinm-[ia]  ib- 

tu-^        ruti-ja        il-^u-u 

21.  epir  iepi-a  fi-\bu-lu\  man-da-at 

la-mi-ia   u-tnan-di-du^ 

22.  falmani-[ia  lu  fa  bi-]  nu  lu  ia 

'"erini  lu  ia  tipi  lu  la  GAB- 

23.  [lu  la  CAB  lamahammi]  lu  la 

iddi  lu  ia  titU  lu  ia  U 

24 ia    ?  LU  „  SE-LUH-A 

lu-u  epusu-ma 
2;.  [kalba]  lur-u  H-ia-ki-lu^  id^a  uM- 

kilu  iffur  iami  utdkilu  nUn 

apsi  uidkilu 


y  Google 


196 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


26.  [        -]mu-iu-iii-nu  an-nu-iu  ^al- 

mani-iw-wH  kinta-^if-nu  la 
iiia-ju  falynani-iu-nu 

27.  [ina]  pan  ilH-ii-ka  rabUlU       a- 

^al-lu-'iu-nu-ti 

28.  [falm3ni-]ia  epuiu-ma   ina  iidi 

pagri  ii-ku-nu 

29.  [ina        ]?  duri  tp-^u-u  ina  bi-'i^ 

ia  Mri  i-ie-pu-u' 

30.  [falmani-ia  ina ]ta 

^'/tZ/tG-SUiOy  ui-ni-lii 
"Hna  Ukari  Hani  sibitti  uS- 
{ni-lu] 

31.  [',]ina[  ]  kii-kit-U-e 

pa-ga{?)-?         

32.  "     ina  kibir  nSri  ki-lal-li-e 

«-[  .       I 

33.  ••    ina  iuTTt  e-rib  ^'iamli{U) 

ip-hu-u  ,•  ina  bit  ""AZAG- 
SU{D)U 


34. 


.'  ina  uiun  pa-^a-ru  jJ-ra- 
pu  ..  ina  uiun  ""'KU-RUN- 
NA" 

..  ina  kan-ni  ""'NI-SUR  it- 
me-ru*  •  •  ina  la-ab-ii 


..     ina  ti-nur'  siparri  i^-ln-u  -. 
ina  fi-ii  ''"iamh  (Si) 


26 these    their    images 

shall  not  endure,  even  as  they  • 
themselves;  their  images 

27.  before  thy  great  divinity  1  will 

bum. 

28.  Images  of  me  they  made  and 

placed  them  on  the  lap  of  a 
corpse. 

29.  In  a. ..  .of  a  wall  they  concealed 

them,  in  a  dark  hole  of  a  wall 
they  hid  them. 

30.  Images  of  me  in. . .  .of  cereals 

they  laid,  images  of  me  in 
"beer  of  the  seven  gods" 
they  [laid]. 

31.  Images  of  me  in  a.... of  the 

carpenter they 

32.  images  of  me  on  the  two  shores 

of  the  river  they 

33.  Images  of  me  in  a  cavern  at 

sunset  they  concealed;  images 
of  me  in  the  house  of  the 
grain  goddess 

34.  Images  of  me  in  a  potter's  oven 

they  burned;  images  of  me 
in  the  oven  of  a  restaurant 
keeper  they 

3;.  Images  of  me  in  a  cauldron  of  an 
oil  mixer  they  cooked;  images 
of  me  in  a  flame  they 

36.  Images  of  me  in  an  oven  of 
bronze  they  ignited;  images 
of  me  at  sunrise  they 


'bi'H  probably  connected  wiih  ep&,  be  pale,  dark. 
•a.li-la--pu.CT.2j.  ro,  18  I  a, 
'A  title  of  Nidaba. 
*  Read  "ditto"  marks. 
*Cf.  PoEBEL,  BE.  VI  55,  7,  ; 
'This  passage  yields  the  first 
obviously  a  synonym  of  larapu. 
'See  Rev.  15. 


he  woman  KURUN-NA  in  the  Code  of  Ham 
ipte  of  the  verb  temlra,  root  of  Jumru  oven. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON— SUM  BRIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 
37- 


"97 


'I     ina  e-rib  "'iamli  ik-lu-u 
ina  e-rib  kahal{?) 


38.  -r     ina  suk  irbitli  ^fam-me-ni .. 

ina  iapla-na  '^'AZAC-S[UD 
] 

39.  (  M     ]  pi-sa-an~nu  mu-iar- 

di-i  ina  Hri  ii-ku-nu 

40.  [■■     I    kakkab    ia-ma-mi 

u-[ ] 

41 .  [  ■. ]     ia    ii-TU-pi    un-? 

babiu-\ 1 

42.  [ TU-BAF}  id~di-nu-ma 

nam  fju-bur  u-{ie-bir?] 

43.  End  of  obverse  is  mostly  de- 

stroyed. 


Images  of  me  at  sunset  they 
ignited ;  images  of  me  at 
midday  they 

Images  of  me  at  crossways  they 
concealed ;  images  of  me  be- 
neath cereals  they 

(Images  of  me ]  a  water 

vessel in    a   well    they 

placed 

[ )  star  of  the  skies 

they 

[Images   of    me    upon]    which 

fistules in  the  gate  — 

they 

[Images  of  me  unto]  Gilgamish 
they  gave  and  he  (caused  me 
to  cross]    the    Hubur  river. 


Reverse 


3.  "'gibillu    ia    "'nam-iar    sukkal 

irjitim 

4.  ""iamai  ia  kH-pi  ru-^i-e  m-si-e 

{ar-ia-M?)  limnu-\ti  ] 

5.  "'iugal-dig  umun-nun^  \ia\  amel 


6.  ki  Hi  M  iilar  u-ii-nu-in-f, 


7.  i-laM-me~nu^in-ni  ina  bili 

TU  ina  s&^i 

8.  ii~ku-nn-nim-ma    ''"iamai    ka- 

{tid?limm  M  aibi?] 


3.  Oh  Gibil  who Namtar  mes- 

senger of  the  lower  world, 

4.  Oh    Shamash    who. . . .  sorcery, 

venom,  saliva,  witchcraft  evil, 

5.  Oh  divine  lord  of   the  dead, 

protector,  who the , 

6.  Since  god    and   goddess   have 

become  enraged  against  me 


7.  Have   maltreated    me  and    in 

house in  street 

8.  Have   placed   against  me,  Oh 

Shamash    [conqueror    of    the 

wicked  and  the  Joe] 


'Probably  restore  "'K;iS-TU-B/IR.  Gilgamish.  The  associaiion  of  Gilgamish  with  the 
river  Hubur,  the  world  surrounding  salt  stream,  which  that  hero  crossed  in  search  of  eternal  life. 
is  interesting  and  shows  how  the  priests  utilized  popular  legends  in  the  incantations, 

'  The  same  deity  is  appealed  to  in  a  prayer  of  £ama$-ium-uk1n,  Mvmrman.  PBS.  [  13.37  f- 
Cf.  also  IV  Raw.  ss"  4.  No.  a,  and  also  I.  ai.     Ebelinc,  KTA.  No.  26,  7,  and  CT.  jj.  15.  8. 


,,  Google 


5  UNrVERSITY    MUSEUM- 

""Aja  um-ma  la  i-[        ]bal 

''"lamai  ia  kal-ia-pi~ia  kahlap- 
ti-ia      e-pihia  mui-U-[pii-tt- 

io] 

ra-^i-ia   ra-^i-ti-ia   kil-pi-tu-nu 

i*ta[ 1 

kima   is-par-ri  lib-bal-kit- 

[su-na] 
epiian-fu-nu    U-ba-ru-lu-nu-H 

'"lamal  ka-lid  [  ] 

kima  di-ka-Tt  

ki-tna    ti-nur'    ^u-tur-iu-nu    li- 

li-^u-lu  li-iu-bu-  u  lil-\la-at-tii- 

ku        1 
IH  pi^-la-ht-nu  kima  mi  na-a- 

du  ina  Yi'ki  tik-tu] 

iu-nu    li-mu-iu-ma    ana-ku    lu- 

[ub-lu(\ 
iu-nu    li-ni-tu-ma    ana-ku    lu- 

\ud-mn\ 
tu-nu  H'ik-ti-su-ma^  ana-ku  lu- 

lup-pa-lar] 
ht-nu  li-ii-iab-tu-ma  ana-ku  lu- 

l 1 

ana    ki-bi-ti-ka    ilu-u-iu*    ia  '  la 

innakaTu{ru)   u  an-ni-ka   ki- 

tiim  [la  la  innu-u] 


-BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

9-  And  Aja  mother  who  does  not 
[come  to  my  aid?) 

10.  May  Shamash  break  the  sorcery 

of  my  sorcerer  and  sorceress, 
my  wizard  and  my  witch, 

1 1 .  My    befouler    and    befouleress 

with 

12.  Even  as  a  net. 

13.  May  they  catch  them  at  their 

evil  doings,  and  may  Shamash 
conqueror  of 

14.  [Shatter  them]  like  an  earthen 

jar. 
1$.  Like  a  furnace  may  he  quench 

their  smoke. 
16.  May  they  melt,  glow  and  run 

away. 
[7,  May    their    deed(s),    like    the 

water  of  a  leather  pouch  by 

pouring,  cease. 

18.  May  they  die  and  I  live. 

19.  May  they  quake  and  I  stand 

fast. 

20.  May  fhey  be  bound  and  I  be 

freed. 

21.  May  they  be  seized  and  1 

22.  By  thy  command,  which  is  a 

thing  divine,  and  changes 
not,  and  by  thy  true  grace 
which  alters  not. 


'  Sign  5/(B,  here  first  with  this  value, 

'  ardmu.  entered  in  Delitisch,  H,  W.  [J46  as  meaning  "destroy"  really  has  this  general 
tense.  The  original  idea  is  cover,  Syn.  katamu,  RA.  10,  74.  34:  often  in  Ihis  sense  in  liver  omens, 
BoissiEtt,  Cboix.g}.  8-[o;  CT.  30,  15,  10;  31,  aft  Rev.  la.  It  is  employed  in  the  sense  quench 
with  IfutTu  in  Mniitt  HI  170. 

I  B    *  For  the  passive  meaning  of  the  I'  form  note  liplasis  "may  it  be  annihilated,"  Ebeling. 
KTA.  67  Rev.  37, 

*  Sic!  The  parallel  in  Mak  I  1 19  has  firtu. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITUfiGICAL  TEXTS 


"99 


23.  ana-ku  ^'"SamaJ-lum-ukin  mar 

ili-ia  arad-ka  lu^ub-lut  lu-ui- 
Vm] 

24.  fiar-bi-ka  lu-ii-pi  dd-U-li-ka  ana 

niU  TUpUti  \lu-ud-lul\ 

25.  ""lamai  lur-hi   a-ii-pu-iam   M 

abkal    ildni    i-pu-iu    ""NU- 
[DIM-MUD] 

26.  hpti  kaUapti  M  kil-pi  ma-'-dw- 

tu  i-pu-iu 

27.  tirra-ma  }a-lu-li^  Sa  kaitapti  ia 

TU-ii-e  i-pu-iu  tu-pi-i 

28.  ar-kii  up-pu-ui 

29.  kikm&  luati  lu  ina  1  lu  ina  fSri 

mi  eMH  ianaddi  kakkara  tai- 
abhit 

30.  '"'paiiura  pan  "'Samh  iaiakkan 

3     kummati     1 2-ta-dm     ia 
kunaia  taiakkan 

3 1 .  niknakki  buraii  taiakkan  kuruna 

tanakki  ^u-lu  ^u-ka  ana  pan 
"'iamii  taiakkan 

32.  lu  te-lab^  "" tarn  ie-^i-en 

iaianfi   f'tf'   falam   fiU'   kibir 
ttari 


23.  I  Shamas-shum-ukin,  son  of  his 

god,  thy  servant  would  live 
and  prosper. 

24.  Thy    greatness    I    will    extol, 

thy  praise  unto  far  dwelling 
peoples  I  will  sing. 
2;.  Oh  Shamash  exalt  the  magic 
curse  which  Nudimmud, 
counsellor  of  the  gods  has 
made. 

26.  Incantation    against    the    sor- 

ceress who  has  done  much 
sorcery. 

27.  Turn  away  the  enmity  of  the 

sorceress  who  has  employed 
venom.     Make  clean 

28.  Quickly  the  one  bewitched. 

29.  This  is  the  ceremony.    Whether 

in  the. . .  .or  in  the  field  thou 
shalt  cast  clean  waters  and 
sweep  the  ground. 

30.  A  table  before  Shamash  thou 

shalt  place;  three  loaves  of 
spelt  twelve  times  thou  shalt 
place. 

31.  A  censer  of  cypress  thou  shalt 

place.  Best  wine  pour  out. 
A  pig  and  a  ^Uku  bird  before 
Shamash  thou  shalt  place. 

32.  Thou    shalt    set    fire    {to    the 

censer)  and  fill  it  with 

wood.  An  image  of  clay,  of 
clay  from  the  two  river's 
banks. 


'  The  Iranscriplio 

'  So  1  [nterprel  from  ta'abu, 
liquid  I. 

'GAR-NU. 


sallitu,  if  correct,  is  Ihe  first  example  of  this  derivaiive. 
irn.     tal'ab  >  litSb.  is  probably  due  to  the  influence  of  Ihe 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


33.  ki-la-li-e  falam  lipi  falam  lipi         33,  An  image  of  tallow,  an  image 

fdarn   ba-U-ri   ialam  GAB'  of  tallow(sic!),  an  image  of 

»  iamaiiammi  flesh,    an    image    of    baked 

bread  and  sesame, 

34.  falam  H  falam  li  ie'i  ^i  folam         34.  An  image  of  dough,  an  image 

li  ie'i  ?  ?  of  dough  of  barley  and  beans, 
an  image  of  dough  of  barley 
and 

35.  falam    ""bi-nu    (alam    ""eri^i         35.  An  image  of  tamarisk,  an  image 

falam  iddi  falam  CAB-LAL  of  cedar,  an  image  of  bitumen, 

an  image  of  baked  bread  and 
honey. 

36.  ialmani  an-nu-ti  ta-kas-si-iu-nu-         36.  These  images  thou  shall  bind 

H-ma  tipara  and  with  a  torch 

37.  ina  NE A  ""Ndri 37-  in  fire(?)  on  the  bank(?)  of  the 

ana  libbi-U  pa-tur-ra^  ianaddi'  river  thou  shalt them; 

ma  into    the    midst    thereof    a 

bronze  double  axe  thou  shalt 

throw, 

38.  iiptam  an-[ni-taM]  yiH  iamannu  38.  This    incantation    three    times 

kima   ib-iai-lu  ina  lihbi   mi  thou  shalt  recite;  when  they 

iu-na-at-iu-nu-ti  are    boiled    thou    shalt  cool 

them  in  water. 

39.  hptu   [ ]-iu-nu   mi    3-iM         39.  The  incantation,  " them 

iamanttu-lma]  laiarrap-iu-nu-  water,"'  thrice  thou  shalt  re- 

ii  ina  ^ar-ma'-ii  ta-na-di{?)  cite,andburnthem:  inawaste 

place  thou  shalt  throw  them, 

40.  [lipiu       ]  GA-UD-DU  i- 40.  (The  incantation ] ; 

iiptu  AS-yU^  umdm  ianSm  the    incantation,    "Curse   of 

3-Im  tamattnu  the  bird"  on  the  second  day 

thrice  thou  shalt  recite. 

41.  I  -]  ui-rM  mamitu  mui-         41.  May  the and  the  death 

mMalu       ai        ii^u-u  dealing  Mamit  not  come  nigh. 

42.  [Upiu ]NE        dim-in-?*  42. 

'  Here  to  be  read  some  derivative  from  tp&. 

'  Var.  of  patarru,  a  kind  of  weapon.  Loan-word  from  ba-da-ra,  BL.  79,  ii;  cf.  (p)-ba-da-Ta  — 
Jwiaru,  PS6A,  1901  May,  PI,  II  1.  1.  umdu-sua-tab  labar-iul-a^pattaru,  i.  e.,  double  axe 
of  red  bronze.  K.  8676  R,  30  in  Meissneh.  Suppl.  pi.  15. 

•  Title  of  some  ineaniation. 
'Sic!  Error  for  ia? 

*  Title  of  some  well-known  incantation. 

'  Probably  a  Sumerian  title  of  some  unknown  iticanlalion  which  was  recited  here.  Cf. 
MvHRMAN,  BPS.  I  No.  1}  end. 


y  Google 


DESCRIPTION  OF  TABLETS 


4562  ■  Right  upper  corner  of  a  three  column  baked 
tablet.  3K  inches  H.;  3K  W.;  i^-H  T. 
Fragment  of  an  epical  and  legendary  composi- 
tion.    Seepages  iii-iij. 

Complete  single  column  tablet.     Baked.     H.  4; 

W.  2>^;  T.  H-H-     Liturgy  to  Aruru.     See 

pages  115-117- 
Upper  part   of  a   single  column  dark   baked 

tablet.     H.  2;    W.  3;  T.  H-'A-     Psalm  to 

the  god  Amurru.     See  pages  1 18-120. 
Complete  single  column  tablet.     Light  brown; 

unbaked.     Cracked  on  left  edge.      H.    3^; 

W.    2}4;    T.    K-K-      Lamentation  on    the 

invasion  of  Sumer  by  Gutium.     See   pages 

120-124. 
4564  Lower  half  of  a  long  single  column  tablet.    Light 

brown;    baked.    H.  4;    W.  2H:   T.    iH-H- 

A  legend  of  Giigamish.     Seepages  124-125. 
4;6o  Right    half  of   a    large   three  column    tablet. 

Light  brown;    unbaked.       H.   jj4;     W.  4; 

T.    i!4-}4-      Hymn   to   Engur.      See  pages 

126-136. 
Nearly  complete  single  column  tablet.      Light 

brown;   unbaked.    Seepages  136-140. 
4566         !  Left  upper  corner  of   a    large    three   column 

tablet.      Light  brown;    unbaked.      H.    iH; 

W.  3;    T.  1-^.     Liturgy  to  a  deified  king. 

See  pages  140-142. 

4563  Lower  ri^ht  comer  of  a  large  three  column 
tablet.  Dark  brown;  unbaked,  H.  5;  W.  4; 
T.  i-f^.  Liturgical  hymn  to  Ishme-Dagan. 
See  pages  143-149- 


(201) 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


33     4584 


34-    4568 
35 


39- 
42 


17  ,  48 


7184 


15877 


54-1    2359 


Description 

Upper  half  of  a  small  single  column  tablet. 

Light    brown ;    unbaked.      H .   2 ;    W.    2 J4; 

T,    lyi-^.      Liturgical   lamentation  on  the 

pillage  of  Ur.    See  pages  150-^151, 
Complete    dark    brown    baked    tablet.    Single 

column.     H.  4K;  W.  3;  T.  iK-H-     Hymn 

of  Samsuiluna.    See  pages  151-155. 
Left  upper  corner  of  a  large  three  column  tablet. 

Dark  brown;  unbaked.    H.  2;  W.  3;  T.  f^. 

Liturgy.    See  pages  155-171. 
Lower  half  of  a   long  single  column   tablet. 

Light    brown ;    unbaked.      H .    3 ;    W.    2}4 ; 

T.    I X-K-      Fragment    of   a    litany.      See 

pages  172-178. 
Complete  light  brown  tablet.     Single  column; 

unbaked.     Liturgical  hymn  to  Ishme-Dagan. 

H.  5K;  W.2^;  T.  i-J<.    See  pages  178-184. 
Fragment  of  a  large  three  column  tablet.    Brick- 
red  and  baked.     Upper  left  comer.     H,  jKi 

W.    33^;    T.     iH-H-    Liturgy    to    Innini. 

See  pages  184-187. 
Complete  light  brown  tablet.     Two  columns; 

unbaked.      Right   edge  damaged.      H.    jHi 

W.  3X;    T.   \yi-yi.     Legend  of  a  musical 

instrument.     Seepages  187-191. 
Upper  left  corner  of  a  large  three  column  tablet. 

Light  brown;  partly  baked.     H.2K;  W.  2^; 

T.  iH-}4-     Liturgy  of  the  Tammuz  waitings. 

See  pages  191-192. 
Long  thin  single  column  tablet.     Light  brown; 

unbaked.      Damaged    at    top    and    bottom. 

From  the  top  five  lines  entirely  broken  away. 

At  the  end  of  the  obverse  about  ten  lines 

entirely  destroyed.     H.  7;   W.  3K;   T.  i-X- 

Incantation  and  prayers  for  Shamash-shum- 

ukin.     See  pages  193-200. 
Nearly  complete  single  column  tablet.      Light 

brown;  unbaked.     H.  5X;  W.  2^;  T.  K-K- 

Hymn  and  legend  of  Sin. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANCDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGICAL  TEXTS 


Text 

Plate 

Museum 
Number 

Description 

20 

.^ 

4916 

Upper  half  of  a   long  single  column   tablet; 

57 

!     mole-brown;    unbaked.      H.   4K;    W.   2K; 
1     T.   \yi-}^.     Hymn  to  Enki  concerning  the 
building  of  his  temple  in  Eridu. 

21 

sa- 

49'5 

i  Upper  part  of  a  large  two{?)  column  tablet. 

te 

1     Light  brown;    unbaked.      Left  edge  broken 
!     away.     Reverse  damaged.     H.  3^^;  W.  3K; 
'     T.  \yi-yi.    An  epical  legend. 

22 

61 

14031 

'  Small  fragment  from  a  large  two  column  text. 
,      Light  brown;  unbaked.     H.  2;  W.  2;  T.  \%, 
For  contents  see  page  192-193. 

23 

62 

10215 

Duplicate  of  No.  16.     Dark  brown;  baked. 

,,  Google 


,,  Google 


AUTOGRAPH   PLATES 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.  . 


::-hS,^h^     « t^  4!;  ^ 


»!   ^  Htm  .^  b^w 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


m'^    34  jg_    ffrr  (tfg  feff 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


vM 


au 


^ 


i^u- 


A«t^;- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.  X 


^  H  <«  ^-4  <W  r#f  Mt  Ut4  Mr  ^  Mt^l^ 

H?-  N^^K^  t-tf  ^^  -04  ^-i  <W  r^H-i^  {i*^t^  nJM^M^^ 

Hf  «f- i^<KWisM«r  NtJ  ^  «  W 

\=i<^  »d^  Hf  >w^  ^  w      Hf  Ht^  m 

4^ i« HW  M  fiK  ^:^^_Ht_#_-  -- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


\f4-  mf   r^-f  «iM        fcff 

■  '■■  ■<?^ff:;?4>nf<!^Nt4WKK!f«»-Hfr 


^m. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


5 


rv  ® 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


•^  li"  l#-  tff  fc44  f-  —  tf  «#'lt  <«  » 1^ 
||3tl  :e|-      |s|^     >#   ^     ^  »|pl    >fe: 

i#rr  ^^  w  M       ni^  iitr  -^r  ►'i;^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.  . 


^  ^  <tt  ^-4  <w  r4^  ^-^f  UJ4  Mr  s^^M^E^ 

t^f  HI- i^<fWfeM^  Hfc=r  4*  *f  W 
M- f!^^  HWI  .1?  !!■  MN  5^ Hf    M   »'# 
{z^^^t^^Hf  ►fH^^i4<r       Hf  «t^  ti? 

t44-H!>-^M^«^W      H+ «»-   8»f 


6K       {eJ  Hf^      >ff-f 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


rf4-  ^s-  r^^-^  ^E^       r?f 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


Hf:-ii*r'»rH-HH'  tef  »'-H  m  mrJ-^  ►.^  iff  ^j  m  m 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOU  X 


rtSlH »-      m     >lt   ^     *^  >lpl    >te: 
^  t^-:^  te^  <!^  >^  Mh^  \=i<t  ^  ^    ?^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYU  PUB.  UMV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


^^  ff  ,^  ife>      ^  i>-  ►M  »-<;^  w  ,ti^ 

MWS»3E8:g  tW  rf  V*     <lt-       ^ 

^  ^  :9=  (>ri;;;w»^ife?  ^;« 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


■-■■  ■  M^t**  *  <HSfc4Cte^H^H?<HW-^f 
■•■--;^  W         ^       tern  "H     4g 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUS   UNIV.  MJSEUU  VOL.  X 


iv- ;#:<Mri^te!  W  ^  rat «  5^     iff     W 
■ "  ::;r^:- -vclil  ^  kh  ^^^  ^-       n-   i*^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL  X 


tti'W^^^W^vf  ^^  EtJ  ^     ^      ^ 

mm  w^  hi^-4f^^  M\^m  m  ,,^j^    ►ht  ^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUfl.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


^^^  ^tjf;,:  ■  •---:^^.^r■N!Jt::v::■W^K 
fe  tor  ft  j4.     ■ — ^      i-*tf*m#i^«.- ■■■:.•■-;■■■■ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


8ABYL.   PUB.   I 


.   MUSEUM   VOL.  X 


PLATE   XXII 


t^rr-K^:^  te!r  ^  ^  M^  >^^  v^  wi^i^r^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


:m 


■mm    tW  «::.:;■;.;■.: ^ ^s: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BASYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


-'mn::^y;m  mi>ff#-^  nt^n\^  ^ 

■;•■■■■::  ■•■'.-^--:^;:^     ^         ^  teJ 

;;:.--v;- ,:>*J^ fF  <!^ ter  (^  >f^  ^ft     mH 


tab  ff  ,^1  irftft  ,'ffl>^  IhM.  - ;  ■  ■: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


.i.. 


H. 


nilgais 


Sti^i^'iii 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


I< 


is 


1i- 


s 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  XXVI I 


ii=s-5:f5  iffi  IF  ,fe?i  M'^;'p;M  ^ny  Wi^  !^  ^fe  1^  <h 
ttM  «h  ;v?T  K^  .  ^t^         ^^        m 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


PLATE   XXVIII 


li?^4-  »J>«  Vjfe  lit  HiF  #  $3f • 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABrL.  PUB.  UMV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  XXIX 


, ,.  .Ai*a  Hf-a   

fSXSi>  Hi  ^  M  mH   ff 


^)Wmmt^u 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV    MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


'^jrif  Mr    ^  >«^"v:  .-•;■:■  :Ni-;'.\"  ■■■■■■■  w:-- 
-B  <f   W   ?T      K ,  «-  *<:«;; -v:;^> 

^^mM  ^    "^^    ^     '^^    t# 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   . 


?■[«#? Jiff  t|fJfMlM^#<^..!   fft 

i^-»htt  ^>-5b  i->f    <^   m    ^ 

W  ^<N  >Mf  iSf^' v^  1=^  l=#^  t^  1^  v^ 

*strHfMr^^=4f<:   H- u^  ^  ^ 

^i  <&  Hf  W^ffi  <|*  y4\  fH  <« 

!r«tJ  45  w  *  Hf^  Iff  ^^i  mpr^ 
Hi  B-  ^  »  w  tf-vfel  ^  riW^Hn«ff 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


8ABYL   PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  XXXir 


r mn  r    ^^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.  X  PLATE   XXXIII 


Wf\\-^    ilk      ffH-^     t^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


8ABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  XXXIV 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


:4 


I 


^ 


5" 


^4 


'a^ji^i 


i 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  XXXVI 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


PLATE  XXXVII 
BABVL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


-  w  Vr  Vt  Vt  ?T  i;  S^  -  S^  2  SfcYl  IT 


1^ 


S  ^^s 


5-^?4  Jill*   ^^■ 


SkIS 


,^- 


^SBS^X&fl^Bl 


^ 

H 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X  PLATE  XX>)X 


^Mftm*^vV-..:-,V:-.^..;,#--;:.Vv:.::;;-V;; 

-f  ^t '-fel-^  ^4^1:     ■  tgfe  nw-  ^'-' 
M»^^te^.^S:if  ^M  ^sM  ^ff  tt?^^v.v.>^Kj6^ 

^  M IW  S«  ^^  ^k^^  m^-^x^xMi:; 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


tej/!^  {5!;  #  m  >-=*-!  \fe  5*Re:^  >H  w  vt  jt<r  iTf 

:s=»^HEr  ^Jg^   If^^^i     Jig 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


w 
% 


L 


Ji 


SS' 


^   n  ^ 

^    ¥   w    ^   i?  ^^^ 

4  J  I  mmii'i 

*3  .  ^  ''■/fe*s::j^ 


1 


"i^  i  J^  5i  M^ 


*^P«Mi 


5|*saiiiifi,si 


t\ 


5*4 


i^^ 


.4ft 


]ft's?¥. 


"Ma 


rill: 


^^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


t 


■■ill 


4- 


Jfr 


^^^^  :■:■;§  £^ 


S  &  it 

#  f 

ii  S 

g  S       X. 


4- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   > 


PLATE   XLIII 


^rfta-tfi^JTHf     ^^^-t^iff»fta^4 


vii 


j<ft|t^MKff^^|SWi^W^Wf 


:t^? 


lie. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


|^%*| 


M 


IS.  115 


m^ 


*7 


_s? 


M 


I  Til '^■^'^  in 


# 
-^ 

^ 


» 

■K^^ 


4lt 


ir!$'j.UtT:%'g^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


*■ 


1 


i  ISS^f  P^iilllilifiS 


tf 


"^^^  *•!  ^l^  K         "^   tT"  (i-sf  ^?'^v' 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


35  ?,  ii  wS 


i^ 


-J  ^^E  :■;: 


S^i^^at- 


X 


|:::||5;;;iit^i 


;Ii 


tiA^S  i  I  t  IS^ 


^ 


-  jrt--;  ■;: 


.'^■:i 


?>  ^;-.    ^-:  ^    ; 


;Si^  I 


'% 


vanillin 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


t 


,S1 


■  ■■ .  ■*  ^  e=      Jl 


^^^'"fli^Siir 


4: 


.'•'Si 


m 


..  :■  J.  , 

■  ti! 


-.]&' 


■:**3f 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.    PUB.  UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


PLATE  XLVIII 


<>tet*?«\^^f^^{4mtf  m 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


m 


^KS. 


m 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


jr     i     i- 


te  ■ 


Ua 


S. 


■^.ES^^ 


H( 


Si 


^^f: 


tl,. 


^. 


:^-^ 


II  J.  i  1  i 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


ttL±^-  -;:■'' ■-■■■■■■■-■■■ 


IS 

REVERSE 


Hf  H'afr- ^■.^■^■:^;1^^^:■->^*- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


lif^ 


S' 


i^^ 


i^:^i 


J:! 


txSiT.*. 


■:Ji 


;s5    SSflf 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


i^t^i 


^f 


% 


> 


2:- 

i 


^^ 


tT7- 


m^ 


3 


M_  (^     %^  ... 


1^5 


3 


^  1 


^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM  VOL.   > 


K^sj  mr  *«"^ 
^l^ 


^■' 


■J 
'Muw  t:^^'4rttf  :i^t^jt{r  ■  ■.m!ErtfrsEi{Ei\3^*f^ 

iff  rfSf:-4- ^^^■■'^  ■•■■■■ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


SABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


teJ^  tfji  ^  ^ ^ ,^  ft -iU  Ht  \3j^  ^iVfei 

»H  »*-  te?       »<«/ 

«>  / 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


i:! 


'4, 


%■ 


Ali'U^m 


St' 


-ii   I 


^s 


tr 


i^ 


US^ii^iJS 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


■i 

4 


S-  i. 


lil^ 


* 


g^s 


w-T -^ 


^1 


ItssiiBiiil 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUS.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


^n  .^fr  ►«'■ 

fe-.  :■■■  f WMw -^^ ^ «w,i^ it fc    >ff/ : ■• 

l=r  Mr-'-  ^  )15»-  U  ^  !^  tJ.^Js-.  W  5H4ffi-  lEST Alv^l?f 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BAflYL.   PUfi.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   . 


^.  ■    i^-'tfHffi.i^ier^^tEjw^a^WBi-'- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


^<s^;  'ff  |^^*g  ^  4ff-  #i  W  '"^s^: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


^M"^ 


vii^M  m  ^  ^    ^  '^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.  UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


:.;-.■.■■  ;.;-*■  mA^iu- 

-/■:,-.■.■;-:.;;;:  ff^^^Wh^ 
■V.V,:;.-.:   i!^   ^  )d- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.r.PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


■<^-  ^  ^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.   UNIV.   MUSEUM  VOL.   } 


PLATE   LXIII 


i-«-a  H  >i4  '.^la  » ss  w  #fi  m 

nS,853!*  VfcA.*-       Vim      « 
tt/jj!^  *^  Hi «  t*  «  »       tSi  >}< 

■:  V,  ■,■■,■;..  {^  \t  W  «-■!?  rtl!  b*l«5  te  S 

:v.:  /,u; ^.;i;3-W«tH^^J5ii5;Sy»- 
•^.■  .■:•.:...:  :-J(J?|  m    ,tt  t4i» 

If «     e  «=  A>-     (S 

*ite.>4H  v^  w  w     -fmfs  'A 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.   MUSEUM   VOL.   X 


PLATE  LXIV 


k'^-.H;.:.-  '.las^  ,«   ?Si  ►t<    'm 

«^?  .-■;  *-!a  ■«>«<>-  n***- 

8..<y:*  ;■:■/■-  V-:  -K^  ^te*-  S^  \^« 
«VM«  ■>;■■,■•:.•  ('•gvj*  \««a   U. 

;wv..'..^v^v;;.;:..'.;i,^^H^  «H 

«-Vt  !e^«  \-3t.5    '.13   >_ 

?IH4«lUg  tat    \:t    W 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYU   PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL. 


gfe<H  ^& 

»  IT   >^ 


fr 


'ft  '-a  '^  >w 

Hi  ^ 


w 


A 

4-  «  «     .8 

i!t<.  Tr  Wt 


S31  t=i->W 


■Ste 

v^  v$5t  ■* 


^JH  »*  IV  frl€.i^**Vl* 


V   « 


vW 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.   PUB.   UNIV.    MUSEUM  VOL. 


PLATE   LXVI 


\«(  ■(f^  *,a 


'•srt-sm  »  «    \=s  4,  r.  ,v,:\fcij. 
«  *  ?si  M  >4^  •i^■vfl*■-■.,^.■  £ 

"^^*t*-    i*-     f^   if:' ^Kw5W5<tM 

>-  M'  US  ^  S3  i4^^«?Ar  A 

^  .-fl  «:  t=K  ^  >^vVi- «s«  ^ 

••  t  "H   >»tt   »V?>  •¥!         iisS!  JMiSff- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BA8YL.   PUB.   UNIV.    MUSEUM  VOL.   X 


PLATE  LXVII 


:^  ««,&  ^Tfi      U       ►«> 

•'-■!?«  ;es    «-  H^s 

e^MItSt     5S-S       tA,         vrf 
S3«(rt  A ;■.-:■■  v:.:;-V':^v4C: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL   PUB.   UNIV.    MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE   LXVMI 


«*Aa«N^»«  mm 


« 


4S=  tni  V—  <k-  ^ 

»:f  «       4-s:  ^  M 
Vfe  (Hi »-  ^    m 

«4-^  ««  ft  32        >,.:t 

^  (*.  ^         \fe  BS  tfc  Sff 

^rt>T-t:#    W  W    *-   >W 

««  «  «\  ^       ^  6- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABVL.   PUB,  UNIV.  MUSEUM   tfOL  J 


APlFT    C'-    the    C-IL(,;S 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BAByu.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL  X 


TABLET  OF  THE  GILGAMISH    EPIC 
(OBVERSE) 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABVL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL  X 


TABLET   OF   THE    GiLGAMISH    EPIC 
(REVERSE) 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    OF    PENNSYLVANIA 

THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Vol.  X  No.  3 


THE   EPIC   OF   GILGAMISH 

BY 

STEPHEN  LANGDON 


PHILADELPHIA 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

1917 


,,  Google 


,  Google 


INTRODUCTION 

In  the  year  [914  the  University  Museum  secured  by  pur- 
chase a  large  six  column  tablet  nearly  complete,  carrying 
originally,  according  to  the  scribal  note,  240  lines  of  text.  The 
contents  supply  the  South  Babylonian  version  of  the  second 
book  of  the  epic  Sa  nagba  imuru,  "He  who  has  seen  all  things," 
commonly  referred  to  as  the  Epic  of  Gilgamish.  The  tablet  is 
said  to  have  been  found  at  Senkere,  ancient  Larsa  near  Warka, 
modem  Arabic  name  for  and  vulgar  descendant  of  the  ancient 
name  Uruk,  the  Biblical  Erech  mentioned  in  Genesis  x.  10.  This 
fact  makes  the  new  text  the  more  interesting  since  the  legend 
of  Gilgamish  is  said  to  have  originated  at  Erech  and  the  hero 
in  fact  figures  as  one  of  the  prehistoric  Sumerian  rulers  of  that 
ancient  city.  The  dynastic  list  preserved  on  a  Nippur  tablet' 
mentions  him  as  the  fifth  king  of  a  legendary  line  of  rulers  at 
Erech,  who  succeeded  the  dynasty  of  Kish,  a  city  in  North 
Babylonia  near  the  more  famous  but  more  recent  city  Babylon. 
The  list  at  Erech  contains  the  names  of  two  well  known 
Sumerian  deities,  Lugalbanda*  and  Tammuz.  The  reign  of  the 
former  is  given  at  [,200  years  and  that  of  Tammuz  at  too 
years.  Gilgamish  ruled  126  years.  We  have  to  do  here  with 
a  confusion  of  myth  and  history  in  which  the  real  facts  are 
disengaged  only  by  conjecture. 

The  prehistoric  Sumerian  dynasties  were  all  transformed 

>  Ni.  13981,  published  by  Dr.  Poibel  in  PBS.  V.  No.  a. 

'The  local  BSl  of  Erech  and  a  bye-form  of  Enlil,  the  earth  god.    Here  he  is  the  consort  of 
the  mother  goddess  Ninsun, 


,,  Google 


208  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

into  the  realm  of  myth  and  legend.  Nevertheless  these  rulers, 
although  appearing  in  the  pretentious  nomenclature  as  gods, 
appear  to  have  been  real  historic  personages.^  The  name  Gil- 
gamish  was  originally  written  'Gi-bil-aga-mii,  and  means  "The 
fire  god  (Gibil)  is  a  commander,"  abbreviated  to  Kii-bil-ga-mil, 
and  ^GiiS)-bil-ga-miS,  a  form  which  by  full  labialization  of  b 
to  M  was  finally  contracted  to  Hji-il-ga-mil}  Throughout  the 
new  text  the  name  is  written  with  the  abbreviation  *Gi{i),^ 
whereas  the  standard  Assyrian  text  has  consistently  the  writ- 
ing 'GlS-TU*-BAR.  The  latter  method  of  writing  the  name 
is  apparently  cryptographic  for  ''GiS-bar-aga-imiS);  the  fire  god 
Gibil  has  also  the  title  GtS-bar. 

A  fragment  of  the  South  Babylonian  version  of  the  tenth 
book  was  published  in  [902,  a  text  from  the  period  of  Ham- 
murapi,  which  showed  that  the  Babylonian  epic  differed  very 
much  from  the  Assyrian  in  diction,  but  not  in  content.  The  new 
tablet,  which  belongs  to  the  same  period,  also  differs  radically 
from  the  diction  of  the  Ninevite  text  in  the  few  lines  where 
they  duplicate  each  other.  The  first  line  of  the  new  tablet 
corresponds  to  Tablet  I,  Col.  V  25  of  the  Assyrian  text,'  where 
Gilgamish  begins  to  relate  his  dreams  to  his  mother  Ninsun. 

'  Tammuz  is  probably  a  real  personage,  although  Dutnu-ji,  his  original  name,  is  certainly 
later  than  the  title  Ab-&,  probably  the  oldest  epithet  of  this  deity,  see  Tevimaj  and  libtar,  p.  8. 
Dumu-ji  \  take  to  have  been  originally  the  name  of  a  prehistoric  ruler  of  Erech,  identified  with 
the  primitive  deity  Abu. 

'  See  ibid.,  page  40. 

■  Also  Meissner's  early  Babylonian  duplicate  of  Book  X  has  invariably  the  same  urriting, 
see  Dhobme,  Cboix  de  Ttxles  Rtli^eux,  39B-303. 

'  Sign  whose  gunufied  form  is  read  aga. 

'The  standard  text  of  the  Assyrian  version  is  by  Professor  Paul  Haupt,  Das  Babyhn- 
iiCbe  Nimrcdipos,  Leipzig,  1884. 

•  The  name  of  the  mother  of  Gilgamish  has  been  erroneously  read  ri-mat  *^*Nin-Ul,  or  Rtmat- 
Bllit,  see  Dhorme  103,  37;  304,  30,  etc.  But  Dr.  Poebel,  who  also  copied  this  text,  has  shown 
that  Nia-lil  is  an  erroneous  reading  for  Ninsun.  For  Nimun  as  mother  of  Gilgamish  see  SBP. 
IS3  n.  19  and  R.A.,  tX  113  III  1.  Ri-iiust  '^'Ninsun  should  be  rendered  "The  wild  cow 
Ninsun." 


,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — THE   EPIC  OF  CILCAMISK  209 

The  last  line  of  Col.  1  corresponds  to  the  Assyrian  version 
Book  I,  Col.  VI  29.  From  this  point  onward  the  new  tablet 
takes  up  a  hitherto  unknown  portion  of  the  epic,  henceforth 
to  be  assigned  to  the  second  book.' 

At  the  end  of  Book  1  in  the  Assyrian  text  and  at  the  end 
of  Col.  I  of  Book  il  in  the  new  text,  the  situation  in  the  legend 
is  as  follows.  The  harlot  halts  outside  the  city  of  Erech  with 
the  enamoured  Enkidu,  while  she  relates  to  him  the  two  dreams 
of  the  king,  Gilgamish.  In  these  dreams  which  he  has  told  to 
his  mother  he  receives  premonition  concerning  the  advent  of 
the  satyr  Enkidu,  destined  to  join  with  him  in  the  conquest 
of  Elam. 

Now  the  harlot  urges  Enkidu  to  enter  the  beautiful  city, 
to  clothe  himself  like  other  men  and  to  learn  the  ways  of 
civilization.  When  he  enters  he  sees  someone,  whose  name  is 
broken  away,  eating  bread  and  drinking  milk,  but  the  beauti- 
ful barbarian  understands  not.  The  harlot  commands  him  to 
eat  and  drink  also: 

"It  is  the  conformity  of  life. 
Of  the  conditions  and  fate  of  the  Land." 
He  rapidly  learns  the  customs  of  men,  becomes  a  shepherd  and 
a  mighty  hunter.     At  last  he  comes  to  the  notice  of  Gilgamish 
himself,  who  is  shocked  by   the  newly  acquired  manner  of 
Enkidu. 

"Oh  harlot,  take  away  the  man,"  says  the  lord  of  Erech. 
Once  again  the  faithful  woman  instructs  her  heroic  lover  in  the 
conventions  of  society,  this  time  teaching  him  the  importance 
of  the  family  in  Babylonian  life,  and  obedience  to  the  ruler. 
Now   the  people  of   Erech  assemble  about  him  admiring  his 

■  The  fragments  which  have  been  assigned  to  Book  1 1  in  the  British  Museum  collections  by 
Haupt,  Jensen,  Dkorme  and  others  belong  to  later  tablets,  probably  III  or  IV. 


,,  Google 


210  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

godlike  appearance.  Gilgamish  receives  him  and  they  dedicate 
their  arms  to  heroic  endeavor.  At  this  point  the  epic  brings 
in  a  new  and  powerful  moiif,  the  renunciation  of  woman's  love 
in  the  presence  of  a  great  undertaking.  Gilgamish  is  enamoured 
of  the  beautiful  virgin  goddess  IShara,  and  Enkidu,  fearing  the 
effeminate  effects  of  his  friend's  attachment,  prevents  him 
forcibly  from  entering  a  house.  A  terrific  combat  between 
these  heroes  ensues,'  in  which  Enkidu  conquers,  and  in  a 
magnanimous  speech  He  reminds  Gilgamish  of  his  higher  destiny. 

In  another  unplaced  fragment  of  the  Assyrian  text*  Enkidu 
rejects  his  mistress  also,  apparently  on  his  own  initiative  and 
for  ascetic  reasons.  This  fragment,  heretofore  assigned  to  the 
second  book,  probably  belongs  to  Book  111.  The  tablet  of  the 
Assyrian  version  which  carries  the  portion  related  on  the  new 
tablet  has  not  been  found.  Man  redeemed  from  barbarism  is 
the  major  theme  of  Book  II. 

The  newly  recovered  section  of  the  epic  contains  two 
legends  which  supplied  the  glyptic  artists  of  Sumer  and  Accad 
with  subjects  for  seals.  Obverse  11!  28-32  describes  Enkidu 
the  slayer  of  lions  and  panthers.  Seals  in  all  periods  frequently 
represent  Enkidu  in  combat  with  a  lion.  The  struggle  between 
the  two  heroes,  where  Enkidu  strives  to  rescue  his  friend  from 
the  fatal  charms  of  IShara,  is  probably  depicted  on  seals  also. 
On  one  of  the  seals  published  by  Ward,  Seal  Cylinders  of  IVest- 
ern  Asia,  No.  459,  a  nude  female  stands  beside  the  struggling 
heroes.'  This  scene  not  improbably  illustrates  the  effort  of 
Enkidu  to  rescue  his  friend  from  the  goddess.  In  fact  the 
satyr  stands  between  Gilgamish  and  IShara(?)  on  the  seal. 

'  Rm.  389,  latter  part  of  Col.  M  (part  of  the  Assyrian  version)  published  in  HAUPT.iftrif., 
81-4  preserves  a  defective  text  of  this  part  of  the  epic.  This  tablet  has  been  erroneously  assigned 
to  Book  IV,  but  it  appears  to  be  Book  III. 

'  K.  3;89  and  duplicate  (unnumbered)  in  Haupt,  ibid..  16-19. 

'  See  also  Ward,  No.  199. 


,Goo,<^[e 


TRANSLITERATION  AND  TRANSLATION 


1.  iHi't'ma  ""Gf/gamtl  iu-na-tam  i. 

i-pa-al-iar. 

2.  ii-(a-kar-ani'  a-na  um-mi-Iu  2, 

3.  um-mi  i-na  ia-a-at  mu-ii-ti-ia  3. 

4.  la-am-^a-ku-ma  at-ia-na-al'la-ak  4. 

5.  i-na  bi-ri-it  id-da-tim  5. 

6.  ib-ba-iur^im-ma    ka-ka-'a^    ia-  6. 

ma-i 

7.  ki-?-?-run^   la   a-^tm   im-ku-ut  7. 

a-Md  fi-ri-ia 

8.  (iiS-ir-fu-ma  ik-ta-bi-it*  e-li-ja  8, 

9.  i/am'  il-iu-ma  nurul-ia-iu*  u-ul  g. 

el-ti-'i 

10.  dd-Ai  ma-tum  pa-^i-ir'  e-li-iu  10. 

1 1 .  id-lu'tum  A-na-ia-ku  U-pi-iu  1 1 , 

12.  u-umtni-id-ma                     pu-ii  12. 

13.  i-mi-  du                                ia-ti  13. 

14.  uMi- n-lu-ma  <i/-fr<t-2<i-(f Mh  d-nd  14. 

;i-ri-ki  ■ 

15.  um-mi  '''Gilgamii  mu-u-dd-a-at  15. 

jtd-/fi-md 

16.  ii-ia-kar-am  a-na  "'Cilgamii  16. 


Gilgamish  arose  interpreting 
dreams, 

addressing  his  mother. 

"My  mother!  during  my  night 

I,  having  become  lusty,  wan- 
dered about 

in  the  midst  of  omens. 

And  there  came  out  stars  in  the 
heavens. 

Like  a. .  .of  heaven  he  fell  upon 
me. 

I  bore  him  but  he  was  too 
heavy  for  me. 

He  bore  a  net  but  1  was  not 
able  to  bear  it. 

[  summoned  the  land  to  assem- 
ble unto  him, 

that  heroes  might  kiss  his  feet. 

He  stood  up  before  me' 

and  they  stood  over  against  me. 

I  lifted  him  and  earned  him 
away  unto  thee." 

The  mother  of  Gilgamish  she 
that  knows  all  things, 

said  unto  Gilgamish: — 


'  Here  this  lale  lext  includes  bolh  variants  paiBru  and  fakiru.     The  earlier  texts  have  only 
the  one  or  Ihe  other. 

'  For  kakabt:  b  becomes  u  and  then  Is  reduced  to  the  breathing. 

*  The  varianis  have  kiina  kifri;  Jii-[nKi]i'-rM>ii  is  a  possible  reading.    The  standard  Assyrian 
texts  regard  EnkJdu  as  the  subject. 

*  Var.  da-an 

*S^M-K/4K~ilu,  net.      The  variant  has  uUaprid  ki-is-iM-W.  "he  shook  his  murderous 
weapon."     For  kiau  see  ZA.  9,^20,4  — CT.  11,14b  j6,  gil-imd~ki'ii-SH. 

*  Var.  aussu  for  nul-iu  — hhHii-Jm.     The  previous  translations  of  this  passage  are  erroneous. 
'This  is  to  my  knowledge  Ihe  first  occurrence  of  the  infinitive  of  this  verb,  pabiru,  not 

pahSm. 

'  Literally  "he  attained  my  front." 

(211) 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


.  mi-in-di   '''Cilgamish   ia  ki-ma 
ka-li 
.  i-nafi-ri         i-wa-li-id-ma 
.  u-ra-ab-bi-iu  Sa-du-A 

.  ta-mar-iu-tna  \sa{?)]-ap-ia-ta  at- 
ta 
.  id-lu-ium  A-na-ia-ku  ii-pi-iu* 

.  U-ip-fi-ra-iul?) iu-u-^u 

.  ta-iar-ra-['a]-iu  a-tta  ii-[ri-i\a 
.  (ii'-(?)]  ii-lam-ma*  i-ta-mar  ia- 
ni-tam 
.  {in-na-\ia  i-ia-wa-a-am  a-na  um- 
mi-lu 
.  [um-m]i    a-la-mar       ia-ni-tam 

.  [iu-na-ta  a-la]mar  e-mi-a      i-na 
ju-ki-im 
.  [i-na?]  Uvuk-(,ki)  ri-bi-Um* 
.  ia-af-ii-nu  na-di-i-ma 

.  e-li-lu  pa-ai-        ru 

.  ia-ai-fi-nu-um-ma  Sa-ni  bu~nit~ 
lu 
.  a-mur-iu-ma  a^-la-ta  a-na-ku 
.  a-ra-am-iu-ma  ki-ma  dl-la-tim 
.  a-ia-ap-pu-up  el-lu 

.  el-ki-iu-ma  di-ia-ka-an-fu 
.  a-na  a-^i-ia 

.  um-mi  ''"Gilgamisb  mu-da-ai  ka- 
la-ma 
J,  i(-ja-kar~am  a-na  ''"GUgamish] 


17.  "Truly  oh  Gilgamish  he  is 

18.  born'  in  the  fields  like  thee. 

19.  The  mountains  have  reared  him. 

20.  Thou   beholdest  him  and  art 

distracted  (?) 

21.  Heroes  kiss  bis  feet. 

22.  Thou  shall  spare  him 

23.  Thou  shalt  lead  him  to  me." 

24.  Again    he    dreamed    and    saw 

another  dream 

25.  and  reported  it  unto  his  mother. 

26.  "My    mother,     1     have    seen 

another 

27.  [dream.  I  beheld]  my  likeness  in 

the  street. 

28.  In  Erech  of  the  wide  spaces' 

29.  he  hurled  the  axe, 

30.  and  they  assembled  about  him. 

31.  Another  axe  seemed  his  visage. 

32.  I  saw  him  and  was  astounded. 

33.  I  loved  him  as  a  woman, 

34.  falling  upon  him  in  embrace. 

35.  I  took  him  and  made  him 

36.  my  brother," 

37.  The  mother  of  Gilgamish  she 

that  knows  all  things 
[38.  said  unto  Gilgamish: — ) 


'TexinwP 

'iifominimfl  >iUiliimma. 

•Cf,  Code  of  Hammurapi  IV  53  and  Stheck  in  Babyhmiaca  II  177. 

'  [.  e.,  in  the  suburb  of  Erech, 


,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — THE    EPIC   OF   GILCAMISH 


Col. 

i.  ahium  ui-[ta-]  ma-^a-ru  il-ti-ka. 

2.  ^"Cilgamisb  iurtia-tam  i-pa-lar 

3.  *'"£«-jii-[(ffl      w\af-U-ib  ma-^ar 

ia-ri-im-tim 

4.  UR  [  l-Ja-mn  DI-?-al-lu- 

un 

5.  (  ]   im-ta-U  a-tar  i-wa- 

al-du 

6.  (J»i2  6'  w  7  mu-ii-  a-lim 

7.  "'En-ki-dA  te-bi-  i-ma 

8.  la-\am-ka-ta\  ir-  Ji 


9.  lfa-{Ti-im-tu  pa-a]-ia  i-pu-ia-am- 
ma 

10.  ii-ia-{kaT-am\a-na^''En-ki-dA* 

11.  a-na-ialrka  ^En-ki-dA  ki-ma  Hi 

ta-ba-dUti 

12.  am-mi-nim  ii-ti  na-ma-di-te-e* 
ta-at-ta-[na-al-]la  -ak  ^i-ra-am 
al-kam  lu^Ur-di-  ka 
a-na  libbi  Uruk-(ki)  ri-bi-tim 


a-na  biti  [el-]tim  mu-ia-bi  ia 
A-nim 
'En-ki-dii  li-bi  lu-ru-ka 

.  a-na     £-\an-n\a    mu-ia-bi     ia 
A-nim 

.  a-iar  ["'GilgamiS]  H-[ ] 

ne-pi-ii-iinti?) 
.  a  at-[        ]-di  [  -]  ma 

.  ta'{  ]  ra-ma~an-  ka 


1.  that  he  may  join  with  thee  in 

endeavor." 

2.  (Thus)  Gilgamish  solves  (his) 

dream. 

3.  Enkidu  sitting  before  the  hiero- 

dule 


5.  [  ]  forgot  where  he  was 

born. 

6.  Six  days  and  seven  nights 

7.  came  forth  Enkidu 

8.  and  cohabited  with  the  courte- 

san, 

9.  The  hierodule  opened  her  mouth 

10.  speaking  unto  Enkidu. 

11.  "I  behold  thee  Enkidu;  like  a 

god  thou  art. 

12.  Why  with  the  animals 

13.  wanderest  thou  on  the  plain? 

14.  Come!  I  will  lead  thee 

15.  into  the  midst  of  Erech  of  the 

wide  places, 

16.  even  unto  the  holy  house,  dwell- 

ing place  of  Anu. 

1 7.  Oh  Enkidu,  arise,  I  will  conduct 

thee 

18.  unto  Eanna  dwelling  place  of 

Anu, 

19.  where  Gilgamish  [oppreaes]  the 

souls  of  men(?) 

20.  And  as  I 

21.  thou  shalt thyself. 


'  Restored  from  Tab,  1  Coi,  IV  ji. 

*  Cf,  Dhorme  Cboix  de  TexUs  Riltgieux  198,  33, 

*  natnatlA  a  late  form  which  has  followed  the  analogy  of  riHH  in  assuming  the  feminine  t  as 
part  of  the  root.     The  long  i  is  due  to  analogy  with  lUimaUtl  a  Sumerian  loan-word  with  nisbe 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


22.  al-ka  ii-ha  i-{na]  ga-ag-ga-ri 

23.  ma-a-ai^  -ak  ri-i-im 

24.  ii-nu  a-wa-ax-ia  im-ta-gdr  ga-ba- 

ia 
3$.  mi-il-kum  la  sinniUi 

26.  im-ta-[ku]-ut  a-7ta  Hbbi-iu 

27.  iI-jM-M(  li-ib-ia-am 

28.  iUii-nam  [u]-la-ab-bi-ii-iu 

29.  li-ib-  [ia-am]  ia-ni-a-am 

30.  ii-i  it-ta-al-ba-  &t 

31.  ia-ab-ta-at       ga-ai-       fw 

32.  ki-ma     ?     i-ri-id-di-iu 

33.  j-wa  gu-up-n        ia  ri-i-im 


34.  a-J 


35-  »-»w  I 
36 


]  (ar-iw-ji-im 
]-J«-r«  ri-ia-A* 


22.  Come    thou,    arise    from    the 

ground 

23.  unto  the  place  yonder  (?)  of  the 

shepherd." 

24.  He  heard  her  speak  and  accepted 

her  words  with  favor. 

25.  The  advice  of  the  woman 

26.  fell  upon  his  heart. 

27.  She  tore  off  one  garment 

28.  and  clothed  him  with  it. 

29.  With  a  second  garment 

30.  she  clothed  herself. 

31.  She  clasped  his  hand, 

32.  guiding  him  like 

33.  unto  the  mighty  presence  of  the 

shepherd, 

34.  unto    the    place    of    the 

of  the  sheepfolds. 

35.  In to  shepherd 

36 ■ 


(About  two  lines  broken  away.) 


Col.    Ill 


1 .  ii-ij-ba  Sa  na-ma-di-U-e 

2.  i-U-en-        ni-  Of 

3.  a-ka-lam    ii-ku-nu    ma-iar-iu 

4.  ip-U-ik-ma  i-na  -ap^aP 

5.  u  ip-pa-al-la-  as 

6.  u-id  i-di  "En-ki-       d& 

7.  aklam  a-rta  a-ka-lim 

8.  hkaram  a-na  la-U-e-im 

9.  ia-a  lum-^mu-  ud 


1.  Milk  of  the  cattle 

2.  he  drank. 

3.  Food  they  placed  before  him. 

4.  He  broke  bread* 

5.  gazing  and  looking. 

6.  But  Enkidu  understood  not. 

7.  Bread  to  eat, 

8.  beer  to  drink, 

9.  he  had  not  been  taught. 


>  Floom  for  i  small  sign  only,  perhaps  /4;  (xJi^t?  For  mJia,  there,  see  Behrens,  l^.  II 
page  I  and  index. 

'  Infinitive  "[o  shepherd";  see  also  Poebel,  PBS.  V  106  I,  ri-ja-ti,  Ti4C'ia^ 

•The  tent  has  clearly  AD-RI. 

'pioaini  has  apparently  the  same  sense  originally  as  beddlta.  although  the  one  forms  its 
pretente  iptH  and  the  other  ibtulf.    Cf.  also  maiUfu  break,  hammer  and  construct. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — THE    EPIC  OF   CILGAMISH 


10.  ^a-ri-im-tum  pi-ia   i-pu-ia-am- 

ma 

1 1 .  ij-ja-kar-am  a-na  "'En-ki-dH 

12.  a-ku-^       ak-lam*En-ki-d& 

13.  p-ma-ai       ba-la-ti-im 

14.  bi-ii-ti  ii~im-ti  ma-ii 

15.  i-kur^  a-(A-lam*^'En-ki-d& 

16.  a-di  h-hi-e-lu 

17.  iikaram  ii-ti-a~am 

18.  7  ai'iO'om'mi'im^ 

19.  ii-tap-iar  kab-ta-tum  i-na-an-gu 

30.  i'li-if  libba-  fu-  ma 

21.  /«i-«M-Iu  [il-]tai?)-bir  -ru' 

22.  uUtap-pi'it  [ ]-i 

23.  iu-lfU'ra-am    pa-ga-ar-iu 

24.  ia-am-nam  ip-ta-ia-di-ma 

25.  a-we-li'ii  i-mi 

26.  il-i^       ^I  /i-iMo-dm 

27.  ki-ma  mii-ti  i-ha-dUU 

28.  »/-Ai  ka-ak-ka-H 

29.  /a-6i  li-  |i-ir-  ri 

30.  il-sa-ak'pu  iab-[ii]-ei  mu-ii-a-ti 

31.  irf-    ia^    -^»-iI        Sifr-fca-rj* 

32.  la-ii  uk-t[a    ]-ii-id 

33.  it-li  immer  jw-Ai-l*?)  ra-bu-lum 


34.  "'En-ki-dH 

3;.  a-we-lum 

36.  i!-Ifcl-«« 

37.  (l-«il[ 


wa-ritrMm 
td-lum 
u]-ia-ak-ki-ir 


10.  The  hierodule  opened  her  mouth 

11.  and  said  unto  Enkidu: — 

12.  "Eat  bread,  oh  Enkidu! 

13.  It  is  the  conformity  of  life, 

14.  of  the  conditions  and  the  fate  of 

the  land." 

15.  Enkidu  ate  bread. 

16.  until  he  was  satiated. 

17.  Beer  he  drank 

18.  seven  limes(?). 

19.  His  thoughts  became  unbounded 

and  he  shouted  loudly. 

20.  His  heart  became  joyful. 
2t.  and  his  face  glowed. 

22.  He  stroked 

23.  the  hair  of  the  bead*     His  body 

24.  with  oil  he  anointed. 

25.  He  became  like  a  man. 

26.  He  attired  himself  with  clothes 

27.  even  as  does  a  husband. 

28.  He  seized  his  weapon, 

29.  which  the  panther  and  lion 

30.  fells  in  the  night  time  cruelly. 

31.  He  captured  the  wild  mountain 

goats. 

32.  The  panther  he  conquered. 

33.  Among  the  great  sbeepfor  sacri- 

He 

34.  Enkidu  was  their  guard. 
3;.  A  man,  a  leader, 

36.  A  hero. 

37.  Unto he  elevated 


(About  five  lines  broken  away.) 


■  Or  anammim  ?    The  word  is  probably  an  adverb;   hardly  a  word  for  cup,  mug  (??). 

'  il  is  uncertain  and  ia  moie  likely  than  Hi.  One  expects  iUabriTM.  Cf.  tmUtahrirm, 
CT.  17,  15,  2;   littatabraT,  Ebeling,  KTA.  6g,  4. 

'The  passage  is  obscure.  Here  htiuru  is  taken  as  a  loan-word  from  injur Btimmofii, 
hair  of  the  head.    The  infinitive  1 1'  of  labam  is  phitologically  possible. 

*  For  Uppam.    Text  and  interpretation  uncertain,    attappii  II' from ia^Iu,  Hebrew  (Jfaf, 


,,  Google 


UNIVERStTY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

Reverse   I 


i-ip-fm-ui  ul-ia-am 

iS-U-ma  i-ni'i-^u 

i-ta-mar  a-we-lam 

il^-ia-kar-am  a-na    ^arimti 
ia-am-ka-at  uk-ki-h*  a-we-lam 

a-na  mi~nim  il-li-katn 

ii-ki-ir-iu  /m-mJ-Im' 

^a-Tt-im-lum  H-ta-si  a-we-lam 

i-ba-ul-lu-um-ma  i-ta-mar-lu 

e-di-il*        e-el-ia-bi-[ta-am] 

mi-nu        a-la-ki4-zu  tta-at-^ 

[  -]ma 

e  pi'iu  i-pii-ia-am-[ma] 

il'^a-kar-am  a-na  '''^En-{ki-d&] 
bi-ti-ii  e-mu-4im  [  ] 

li-ma-a-at  ni-ii-i-    ma 

iu-ft^-ar    pa-a-ia-lim' 

a-na  Sli  dup-iak-ki-i  t  fi-en 

UG-AD-AD-LIL    e-mi    ja-a-a- 
^a-tim 


1.  And  he  made  glad. 

2.  He  lifted  up  his  eyes, 
).  and  beheld  the  man, 

4.  and  said  unto  the  hierodule: — 

5.  "Oh  harlot,  take  away  the  man. 

6.  Wherefore  did  he  come  to  me? 

7.  I  would  forget  the  memory  of 

him." 

8.  The  hierodule  called  unto  the 

man 

9.  and  came  unto  him  beholding 

him. 

10.  She  sorrowed  and  was  aston- 

ished 

1 1 .  how  his  ways  were 

12.  Behold  she  opened  her  mouth 

13.  saying  unto  Enkidu: — 

14.  "At  home  with  a  family  [to 

dwell??] 
I ;.  is  the  fate  of  mankind. 

16.  Thou  shouldest  design  bound- 

aries (??) 

17.  for  a  city.    The  trencher-basket 

put  (upon  thy  head). 
18 an  abode  of  com- 
fort. 


4,  Sturpu,  f 


a.  Uk-kii.  MrHRHAN,  PBS.   I    I 


'Text  In! 

*  On  rkllu,  drive  away,  see  Zimmer 
ukkiii,  King,  Cr.  App.  V  5;;  etc.,  etc. 

'The  Hebrew  cognate  of  maH,  to  forget,  is  mtl3.  Arabic  natiia,  and  occure  here  in  Baby- 
lonian for  the  Rrst  time.     See  also  Brockelman,  t'ergUicbcndt  Grammatik  160  a. 

*  Probably  phonetic  variant  of  edir.  The  preterite  of  eiiru,  to  be  in  misery,  has  not  been 
found.  If  this  interpretation  be  correct  the  preterite  <dir  a  established.  For  the  change  r  >  I 
note  also  atlala}  <  nllfirii}.  Harper,  i«H(rs  88,  10;  h'Ua  <iiViH,  RA.  9.  77  []  13:  uUakkalu  < 
uUakkaru,  Ebeling.  KTA.  49  IV  10. 

'  Also  rui-'-l  •]mii  is  possible. 

*  The  text  cannot  be  correct  since  it  has  no  intdligible  sign.     My  reading  is 
'  Text  uncertain.    idUu-li'm  is  possible. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — THE    EPIC   OF   CILGAMISH 


217 


19.  a-na  iarri  Unuk-iki)  ri-bi-tim 

20.  pi-ti  pu-uk  epii'        a-na  Ja-u- 

a-ri 

21.  a-na  "'GHgamii  iarri  ia  Unuk- 

(ki)  ri-bi-tim 

22.  pi-ti    pu-uk  epii^ 

23.  a-na  ba-a-a-ri 

24.  ih'ia-at  U-ma-tim  i-ra-ai-^i 

25.  Iti-w  pa-witiu-uttfma 

26.  mii-wA  wa-ar-ka-nu 

27.  i-na  mi-il-ki  ia  Hi  ga-bi-ma 

28.  i-na  bi-ti-i^      a-pu-un-na-ti-iu* 

29.  U-    ma-        ax-  jam 

30.  a-na  ji-ik-ri  id-li-im 

31.  i-ri-ku  pa-nu-iu 


19.  For  the  king  of  Erech  of  the 

wide  places 

20.  open,  addressing  thy  speech  as 

unto  a  husband, 

21.  Unto  Gilgamish  king  of  Erech 

of  the  wide  places 

22.  open,  addressing  thy  speech 

23.  as  unto  a  husband. 

24.  He    cohabits    with    the    wife 

decreed  for  him, 

25.  even  he  formerly. 

26.  But  henceforth 

27.  in  the  counsel  which  god  has 

spoken, 

28.  in  the  work  of  his  presence 

29.  shall  be  his  fate." 

30.  At  the  mention  of  the  hero 

31.  his  face  became  pale. 


Reverse  II 


(About  five  lines  broken  away.) 


1 .  i-il-la-ak-  

2.  u  ia-am-ka-a^  ]ar-kt-'iu 

3.  i-  rtt-  ub-ffid*  a-na*  Hbbi  Uruk- 

{ki)  ri-bi-tim 

4.  ip-^ur    um-matiu-um    i-na    fi- 

ri-iu 

5.  ii-ji-ia-am-ma  i-na  ju-ki-im 

6.  id  Unuk-(ki)  ri-bi-tim 

7.  pa-a^ra-a-ma  ni-iu 


1.  gomg 

2.  and  the  harlot after  him. 

3.  He  entered  into  the  midst  of 

Erech  of  the  wide  places. 

4.  The    artisans    gathered    about 

him, 

5.  And  as  he  stood  in  the  street 

6.  of  Erech  of  the  wide  places, 

7.  the  people  assembled 


'  KAK-ii- 

'  Ljterally  nostrils,    pitik  apunnati-lu,  work  done  in  his  presence(?).    The  meaning  of  tlic 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


8.  i-ta-ml-a        i-na  fi-ri-iu  pii?)- 

9.  a-na  mi-{ni]''  "'Cilgamii  ma-ii-il 


10.  la-nam 

U-    pi-           il 

U.t-ii{ 

pu]-uk-ku-ul 

12. 

i     ?  -ak-ta 

13.  >[- 

-\di      i-ii? 

14.  li-ii-^ 

U  [na-ma-]dHU]-e 

15.  i-te-    en- 

ni-                           i^ 

16.  ka-iS-ma 

i-na  [libbi\   Untk-{ki) 

kak-ki-a-tuttfi 

17.  id-lu-tum 

u-U-eUli-           lu 

18.  ia-ki-in 

ip-ia-            nu* 

19.  o-na  idli  ia  i-tu-ru       ji-mu-iu 

20.  a-na     Gilgamii  ki-ma      i-li-im 

21.  ia'ki-iS-Sutt^      me-ili-rum 

22.  a-na  "^li-l/a'ra  ma-jS-lum 

23.  na-  [di]-i-    ma 

24.  ^'Gilgamisb  id'{       ]na-an{?) . . . 

25.  i-na  mu-I(  in-ni-l  -]id 

26.  i-na-ak'-ia-attt-  ma 

27.  it-ta-l  ]i-na  t&ki 

28.  ip-ta-ra-[ku  ]-ak-iam 

29.  ia  "'Gilgamisb 

30 da-na{?)  ni-ii-iu 


8,  disputing  round  about  him: — 

9.  "How  is  he  become  like  Gilga- 

mish  suddenly? 

10.  In  form  he  is  shorter. 

11.  in he  is  made  powerful. 


14.  Milk  of  the  cattle 

15.  he  drank. 

16.  G3ntinuatly  in    the  midst    of 

Erech  weapons 

17.  the  heroes  purified. 

18.  A  project  was  instituted. 

19.  Unto  the  hero  whose  counte- 

nance was  turned  away, 

20.  unto  Gilgamish  like  a  god 

21.  he  became  for  him  a  fellow. 

22.  For  IShara  a  couch 

23.  was  laid. 

24.  Gilgamish 

2^.  In  the  night  he 

26.  embracing  her  in  sleep. 

27.  They in  the  street 

28.  halting  at  the 

29.  of  Gilgamish. 

30 mightily(?) 


Col,   111 


1,  ttr-(P)Ja... , 

2,  ""Giliamii.. 

3,  i-na  fi-ri. . . 


1.  Aroad(?).... 

2.  Gilgamish  . . . 

3.  in  the  plain. . 


'  Text  PA'it-tam  clearly! 

'Omitted  by  the  scribe. 

>  Sic!  T)ie  plural  of  kakkti.  »dtt»u(P). 

*C{.  e-pi-la-an-lu-iaihbir»,  "May  they  see  their  doings,"  MaVu  Vil  17. 

*  For  iakm-lum. 

*  On  the  verb  tiiku  see  the  Babylonian  Book  of  Proverbs  S  17. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — THE   EPIC  OF  GILGAMISH 


219 


4.  i-^a-an-ni'ib  [pt-ir'la-^u?] 

5 .  it-biina  

6.  a~na  pa-ni-  Im 

7.  i>iam-Ja-n*  i-na  ri-H-iu  ma-ti 

8.  "'Ett'ki-da  ba-ba-am  ip-ia-ri'ik 

9.  i-na  h-pi-iu 

10.  ""GilgamiS  e'ri-ba-am  u-ul  id-di- 


tl. 

ij-jj-flfr-to-jMa  ki-ma  li~:-im 

II. 

12. 

i-                    lu-                      d«> 

12. 

13- 

fi-ip-pa-am            't-bu-        tu 

13- 

14. 

i-ga-mm               ir'tu-tu* 

14- 

15- 

'"Gileamiia^'En-ki-              dH 

15- 

16. 

U-fa-ab-tur^                        ma 

16. 

"7 

ki-ma  li-i-im  i-lu-du 

>7- 

18. 

ii-ip-pa-am                   'i-bu~    tu 

18. 

19. 

i-ga-rum                    ir-tu-tH 

19. 

20. 

ik-mi-is-ma           "'Gilgami! 

20. 

21. 

i-na  ga-ga-ag-ga^i          Si-ip-iu 

21. 

22. 

ip-ii-i^             uf-ta-iu-       ma 

22. 

23- 

i-ni-'i                    i-ra-ai-pt 

33- 

24. 

il-tu  i-ra-pt       i-ni-^u* 

24. 

25- 

""En-ki-dH    a-na    ia-ii-im 

25- 

26. 

ii-ia-kar-am  a-na  "'Cilgamii 

26. 

27- 

ki-ma  ii-ie-en-ma  um-ma^ka 

27. 

28. 

d-           li-           id-              ka 

28. 

30.  "^Nin-  sun- 

3 1 .  ul-lu  e-li  mu-ti  ri-ei-su 


his  hair  growing  thickly  like  the 

corn. 

He  came  forth 

into  his  presence. 

They  met  in  the  wide  park  of 

the  land. 
Enkidu  held  fast  the  door 
with  his  foot, 
and  permitted  not  Gilgamish  to 

enter. 
They  grappled  with  each  other 
goring  like  an  ox. 
The  threshold  they  destroyed. 
The  wall  they  demolished. 
Gilgamish  and  Enkidu 
grappled  with  each  other, 
goring  like  an  ox. 
The  threshold  they  destroyed. 
The  wall  they  demolished. 
Gilgamish  twwed 
to  the  ground  at  his  feet 
and  his  javelin  reposed. 
He  turned  back  his  breast. 
After  he  had  turned  back  his 

breast, 
Enkidu  unto  that  one 
spoke,  even  unto  Gilgamish. 
"Even  as  one*  did  thy  mother 
bear  thee, 
she  the  wild  cow  of  the  cattle 

stalls, 
Ninsunna, 
whose  head  she  exalted  more 

than  a  husband. 


'The  verb  h'dfu,  to  pierce,  devour,  fornu  its  preterite  iluf;  see  VAB.  IV  116,  1.  The 
present  tense  which  occurs  here  has  >Ih(  also. 

*  Note  BUHlu-kut—falMu  (falsely  entered  in  Meissner,  SAL  799))'  and  'rattaiu  in  Zm- 
MERN,  Sburpu,  Index, 

'  For  ipiab. 

<  Sic!  tfu  reduced  to  the  breathing  'a;   read  i-hi-'h. 

■  I.  e.,  an  ordinary  man. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


32.  iar-fu^am 

33.  i-Ii-im-kum 


ia    ni-ii 


32.  Royal  power  over  the  people 

33.  Enlil  has  decreed  for  thee." 


duppu 
iu-iUi-ur  e-li. .. 
4  Iu-Ij' 


Second  tablet. 
Written  upon . . 
240  nines). 


>  The  tablet  is  reckoned  at  forty  linex  in  each  column. 


,,  Google 


INDEX  TO  PARTS  2  AND  3 


Adab,  city,  123,  23. 

oi^i,  wailing,  [17,  31;  137,22;  i6[, 
12. 

aiu,  brother,  212,  36. 

Aja,  goddess,  198,  9. 

al  (gil),  (d-gar  {|il),  a  musical  in- 
strument, 187-191.  See  also 
No.  20  Rev.  7-12.  aUbt,  com- 
pound verb,  189  n.  6.  In  Ni. 
8164  (unpublished)  al-gar,  al- 
gar-balag  in  list  with  {gii)-d- 
Id,  also  an  instrument  of  music. 

alad,  protecting  genius,  154,  18. 

attulii,  like  a  man,  315,  35. 

AmurrO,  god.    Psalm  to,  1 18;   1 19. 

anguhba.  sentinel,  180,  14. 

Anu,  god.  [16,  i8:26ff.  131,  8; 
165,9;   180,20. 

Anunnaki,  gods,  114,  17:21;  116, 
25;  116  n.  7;  128,  13;  135,31; 
189,  21. 

Anunit,  goddess,  158,  12;    166,  2. 

apunnatu,  nostrils,  piti^  apunnJUt, 
217,  28. 

affommim  {?),  215,  18. 

ArallO,  132,  36;    134,  7. 

aramu,  cover,  198  n.  2. 

aral^,  be  pale,  Prt.  iriku,  317,  31. 

arl/ii,  quickly,  [99,  38. 

Aruru,  goddess.  Lamentation  to, 
115.  Sister  of  Enlil,  115,  2; 
[71,29;  190,25.  Other  refer- 
ences, 116, 13:15:18;  117,  34f. 

Asarludug,  god,  163,  8;  170,  4. 


AS-im-ur,  title  of  Moon-god,  136, 12. 

<il  omitted.  No.  19, 2. 
at-me,  disk,  [33,  38. 
ASJirgi,  god.  No.  22,  Rev.  7. 
Azagsud,  goddess,  196,  30:33;  197, 


Babbar,  god,  116,  24;  139,43;  t47> 

21;    148,  3;    152. 
Babylon,  city,  158,  14;  160,6;  163, 

8;    [66,4:11. 
hadara,  see  200  n.  2.     hadarani,  a 

weapon,  133,  36. 
halag,  lyre,  138,  52. 
hansuT,  table;    title  of  a  goddess, 

175.  3- 
Bau,  goddess,  179,  2;  181,30;  182, 

32;   141,  7:10. 
biittu,  condition,  215,  14. 
bi'u,  cavern,  196,  39. 
bulttkku,  crab,  174,  5. 
burgul,  engraver,  185,  8. 


Cutha,  city.     Center  of  the  cult  of 
Nergal,  167,  15. 


Dada,  god,  [93,  6. 
Dagan,  West  Semitic  god,  149,  21. 
Damu,  title  of  Tammuz,  1 76, 7. 
Deificatk>nof  kings,  106^;  izyn.  i. 
dipu,  shatter,  195  n.  16. 


y  Google 


222 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


Dl-BAL,  ideogram  in  incantations, 

194,  10. 
Dilbat,  city,  167,  16. 
Dilmun,  land  and  city,  1 12, 2  4. 
dimgu!,  dimdu!,  master  workman, 

150. 
dingir-gal-gal-e-ru,  the  great  gods, 

theAnunnaki,  1 14,  21:12$;  149, 

19. 
dumu-anna,    daughter   of   heaven, 

title  of  Bau,  179,  $;    181,  28; 

184,  28. 
dumu-sag,  title  of  TaSmet,  163,  12. 
Dungi,  king  of  Ur,  liturgy  to,  136, 
daplakku.  trencher  basket,  216,  17. 
Duranki,  epithet  for  Nippur,  122, 

18;    180,  11. 

E. 

E-anna,  temple  in  Erech,  123,  30; 
12;;   148,  12;  213,  18. 

E-babbar,  temple  of  the  sun  god, 
152;  158,  11;  166,  I.  Perhaps 
read  E-barra. 

E-daranna,  temple  of  Enki  in  Baby- 
Ion,  169,  25:  170,29.    See  BL. 

edelu=ederu,  be  gloomy,  216,  10. 
i-dtib,  house  of  learning,  1 17,  39. 
i-gal,  palace.  No.  19,  Rev.  3;    115, 

11;    131,7;    134.22;    158,9. 
i-gig^kUfi*.  191.  "■ 
E-ibe-Anu,  temple  in  Dilbat,  167, 

16. 
E-kinammaka,  temple,  115,  10. 
E-kiSibba,  temple  in  Kish,  166,  13. 
£-kur,  temple,   180,   12;    183,  23; 

190,7;  146,9;  147,17;  158,8; 

160,  4;    166,  17;    169,  23. 
Emab.  ESmab.  ritual  house  of  the 

water  cult  of  Marduk,  163,  7; 

115.  4- 


E-malga-sud,  temple,  181, 24;  141, 3. 
E-meteg,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
E-mete-ursag,  temple  in  Kish,  166, 

E-namtila,  temple,  160,  4;  169,  24. 
en-a-nwun,  en-d-nun,  title  of    In- 

nini  and  Gula,  173,  2. 
Enbilulu,  title  of  Marduk,  lyo,  ;. 
E-ninnQ,  temple,  181,  22. 
EN-fjlUL-tim-mu,  194  n.  2. 
EN-KA-KA.  bil  dabSbi,  194,  2. 
Enki,  god.    Hymn  to.  No.  20,  1  [3, 

7;  114,10;  116,21;  122,7;  I49> 

16. 
Enkidu,  satyr,  213,  3:7:10:11;  214, 

6;   215,  11:12:15:34;    216,  13; 

219,8:15:25;  131,11;  134,16; 

178,  13- 
Enlil,  god.     Liturgy  to,    155-184. 

Regarded  as  god  of  light,  157, 

1  ff.  i  58,  3  f .    Other  references, 

114,  19;   115,  2;    116,  19;   131, 

6;    136,  5;    139,  40;    149,  22; 

146,  3:7:14;    189,  11:19;    220, 

33- 
Enul,  god,  149,  16. 
Enzu,  god,  139,  41;    146,  3. 
epi3nu,  deeds,  218,  18. 
ep&,  be  dark,  I'  itipH,  196,  29. 
Erech,  city,  125;    149,  13.     Erech 

ribUim,  212,  28;  213,  15;  217, 

19:21;  217,  3.-6. 
eri-azag,  holy  city,  Isin,  141,  8. 
erida,  title,  I75,  I. 
Eridu,  city,  113,  20;    136,  13. 
Erishkigal,  goddess,   131,  10;    134, 

11. 
erlaglugmal,  penitential  psalm,  118. 
E-sagila,  temple,  152. 
E-sakudkalamma,  temple,  166,  10; 

169  n.  4. 
eiendili,  a  title,  177,  lo. 


y  Google 


eikar,  fixed  tax,  188,  9. 
ei-lal,  a  sacred  place,  161,  14. 
E-temen-anki,  temple,  169,  2;. 
E-turkalamma,  temple,  166,  14. 
Euphrates,  river,  183,  12;    183,  20. 
E-zJda,  temple,  166,  12. 
Ezina,  grain  goddess,  174,  g. 
EzJra,  reading  of  the  divine  name 
K/i-DI.  177,  11. 

F. 

Fara,  modern  Arabic  name  for  the 
site  of  Isin  (?),  177  n.  4. 

G. 

GAB,  baked  bread,  200,  33. 

GAB-LAL,  a  cake  made  with  honey, 
195,  22;   200,  35. 

CAR-iunu  =  epiidn-hinu,  198,  13. 

gaian-guJa,  title  of  NinS,  1 19  n.  2. 

gepar,  dark  chamber,  123,  3of.,  148, 
10;    161,  18. 

Gibil,  god,  197,  3. 

gi-gdl  igii),  inteHude,  i;i  n.  i ;  182, 
33- 

giiunm.  1 14,  23. 

Gilgamish,  king  of  Erech,  207;  211, 
iMjf.  212,  17:37;  213,  2;  217, 
21;  218,  9:20:24:29  and  below 
2;  219,  10:15:20:26.  Deriva- 
tion of  name,  208.  See  also  No. 
16  Rev.  II  15;   197,42;   i24f. 

gilsa,  a  sacred  relic,  132,  32. 

Girra,  Irra,  god,  174,  7;    177,  12. 

gtTTu,  lion,  21;,  29. 

Girsu,  city,  181,  23. 

Guanna,  deity.  No.  16  Rev.  II  18. 

Guedin,  province,  129,  28. 

Gunura,  goddess  of  healing,  176,  6. 

gupru,  mighty,  214,  33, 

Gutium,  land,  i2off. 


H. 
Hallab,  city,  125;  141. 
l/anabu.  grow  thickly,  Prs.  i^annib, 

219,  4. 
iapapu,  embrace,  212,  34. 
^assinu.  axe,  212,  29:31. 
^arbaiu,  waste  place,  200,  39. 
Harsagkalamma,  temple,  166,  14. 
Hubur,  mythical  river,  197,  42. 
JiJ/u,  a  bird,  199,  31. 
jd^M,  a  bird,  199,  31. 


Ibi-Sin,  king  of  Ur,  151  n.  2. 

ibsi,  liturgical  expression,  120,  5. 

Igigi,  heaven  spirits,  1 16  n.  6. 

IGI-NAGIN-NA,  194,  11. 

imib,  weapon,  131,  8.  mi-ib,  ibid, 
n.  3. 

imin,  seven.  Seven  lands,  130,  3$; 
seventh  day,  134,  18. 

Immer,  god,  177,  8. 

Indag,  god,  consort  of  Gula,  173,  3. 

Innini,  goddess,  123.  Liturgy  to, 
184;  133,  39.  Consort  of 
Shamash,  148,  4.  Other  refer- 
ences, 154,  21. 

iffUT  iami,  unclean  birds,  19$  n. 
10. 

IShara,  goddess,  218,  22. 

Isin,  city,  122,  15;    176,  4. 

Ishme-Dagan,  i78ff.  Son  of  Enlil, 
[81,  29;  182,  32.  Liturgy  to, 
143- 

K. 

KA-DIB-Bl,  iibii  pi.  194,  10. 

KAK'DIG,  a  weapon,  130,  4. 

kakkitu  (?), weapon.  Pl.kakkiatum, 
218,  16. 

KAK-SIR.  a  weapon  (?),  130,  4. 


y  Google 


224 


UNIVERSITr  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


kalama,  the  Land,  Sumer,  138,  25; 

141,  5;    147,  22;    150,  4:    154, 

17;    177.  9- 
kanami= kalama,  land,  120,  8. 
KA+NE,  a  new  ideograph,  153  n. 

10. 
kasA,  bind.  I'liktisu,  198,  20. 
Kenurra,  chapel  of  Ninlil,  114,  22; 

123,  20;   160,  4;    [66,  18;    166, 

8;    169,  24. 
KeS,  city,  1 15,  1 1 ;   123,  22. 
keida-aiag,  a  relic,  132,  27. 
ki,  kin  for  gm=kima,  120,  6, 
KI-AG-MAL,  rdmu,  194  n.  4. 
Kidurkazal,  daughter  of  Ninkast, 

145. 
ki-malla,  to  bend.    tig-{u  ki-ma-al-la 

nu-g\-gi,    "Thy  neck    wearies 

not  in  bending,"  168,  2.    [Cor- 
rect the  translation.] 
ki-in-gin,  ki-en-gin,  Sumer,  115,  24; 

134,  19;    189,  17. 
KI-SAR,  iakkara  talabbit,  199,  29. 
Kish,  city,  129,  jo;    166,  12.     i  kit- 

{ki)-M.  so  read,  No.  5  Obv.  8. 
Kullab,  city,  149,  [4;   173,1. 
kunin,  gunin.  reed  basket,  150  n.  3. 
kurgal.  "great  mountain,"  title  of 

Sumer,  114,  ii.    Of  Enlil,  114, 

19;    182,  5. 
KURUN-NA.  iamelu),  196,  34. 
KUS-KU-MAL.  194,  i I. 


la'afu,  gore.    Pit.  ilMu,  219,  12:17. 
labu,  panther,  21;,  29:32. 
Lagash,  city,  181,  23:26. 
Laiama,  goddess  of  Chaos,  113,  ;. 
Laws,  promulgated  by  Dungi,  138, 

31- 
Libit-lshtar,  king,  141. 
ZiMu,  garment,  214,  27:29;  21^,26. 


Ligirsig,  a  god,  113,  3. 

lilajag,  epithet  of  a  deified  king, 

141,  I. 
Lillaenna,  goddess,  192,  5. 
liminu,  be  evil.    1 1*  ulammenu-inni, 

'97.  7- 
Lugal-dig,  god,  197,  5. 
lu'&iu,  pollution,  195,  19. 

M. 
Magan,  land,  112.  2:5. 
maialu,  couch,  218,  22. 
malalu,  shear,  195,  20. 
Mamit,  200,  41. 
mandatu,  form,  19;,  21. 
mal-gar  (gi),  a  musical  instrument, 

191,  10. 
mangu.  disease,  19;,  19. 
Marduk,  god,   151. 
markasu,  leader,  1  jo. 
mas&,  seize,  19$  n.  5. 
mat&,  to  forget,  216,  7. 
Me-azag,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
me^ru,  fellow,  218,  21. 
Me|}uS,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
Melu|)t)a.  land,  112,  6. 
Meslam,  temple  in  Cutha,  167,  15. 
mesH,  a  tree,  159,  23. 
muk,  now,  but  now,  217,  26. 
Mulgenna,  Saturn,  137,  18. 
Mulmul,  gods,  142. 

N. 
tiMu,  water  bottle,  198,  17. 
nadUu,  temple  devotee,  188,  7. 
TiagH,  shout.     Prs.  inangu,  215,  19. 
ndku,  embrace,  218,  26. 
namoi/fl,  cattle,  etc.,  213. 12:17;  214, 

1:   219,  14. 
Namtar,  god,  197,  3;   132,  24. 
Nanit,  goddess,  192,  7. 


,,  Google 


Nannar,  god,  115,  12;  116,23;  'j?- 

38;    157,  n;    150,2. 
Nergal,  god,  131,  6. 
Nidaba,  goddess,  191. 
ni-gdl,  cattle,  121,  6. 
nimiT  =  lJgir,  174,  4. 
ninda,  linear  measure,  133,  41. 
Ningal,  goddess.  No.  19,  5;    148,  3; 

151,  3- 
Ningiizida,  god,  133,  34. 
Nin-isinna,  goddess,   122,  16;  191, 

15- 
Ninkasi,  goddess,  144. 
Ninki,  goddess,  149,  16. 
Ninlil,  goddess,  116,  20;    123,  20; 

137,  12;    146,  14. 
Ninmada,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
Ninmab.  goddess,  1 16,  22. 
Ninmenna,  epithet  of  Damgalnun- 

na,  190,  27, 
Ninsun,  goddess,  219,  30;  208  n.  6; 

129:    131.  i6(?). 
Nintudri,  goddess,  123,  26.     Nin- 

tudra,   137,   16.     Creatress  of 

man  and  woman,  192. 
Ninul,  goddess,  149,  16. 
Ninurait,  god,  191,  12;   146,  12. 
Ninzuanna,  goddess,  122,  13. 
Nippur,  city,  1(2,  8;    122,   18:19; 

t6o,  3;   169,  21;   180,  11 ;   149, 

18;  158,7;  165,  16. 
NISUR  (amelu),  1^6,  3i. 
Nudimmud,  god,  199,  25.    No.  20, 

10. 
nugigatiTui,  epithet  of  Innini,  185,  2. 
nAn  apsi,  unclean  fish,  195  n.  i  1 . 
Nunamnirri,  god,  190,  28;    146,  13; 

180,  10:13:17. 
wttB-MT,  epithet  of  Amurrfl,  1 19,  3. 
Nusiligga,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
Nusku,  god,  (46,  7;  163,  13. 


Pabilsag,  god.  Son  and  consort  of 
Gula,  I73n.  3;  176,5.  A  form 
of  Tammuz. 

pananumma,  formerly,  217,  25. 

Panunnaki,  goddess,  consort  of  Mar- 
duk,  163,  9. 

paialfu,  fashion,  break,  214,  4. 

paiurru,  a  weapon,  200,  37. 

Pleiades,  142. 

R. 
raiMu,  demolish,  219,  19. 
Rimat  ""Ninsun,  2c^n.  6;  219,29. 
RulkiSag,  goddess,  132,  28. 
RU-TIG.  an  epithet,  141,  2. 


sa-bar;    sa-sud-da,    liturgical   note, 

182,  31. 
lafrlif,  cruelly,  215,  30. 
Sagilla,  temple,  158,  15.     E-sagila, 

160,  5;    166,  5;   166,  11. 
ia^Mu.    be    astounded,    216,     10. 

Arabic  sa^ita. 
faia^aiu,  desire,  comfort,  216,  18. 
iakdpu,  fell.    P  ihakpu,  215,  30. 
fol&tu,  enmity,  199,  27. 
§amaS,  god,  197,  4:8;    198,  10:13; 

199,25:31. 
Samai-Sum-ukin,    king.      1  ncanta- 

tions  for,  193-200;  199.23. 
Samsuiluna,  king,  151. 
SAR'DI-DA.  a  relic,  133,  37. 
Serpent  adversary,  183,  21;  148,12. 
Seven,  sacred  number.    Seven  gods, 

196,  30. 
Ship,  in  legend,  1 13,  2. 
Silsirsir,  a  chapel. 
Sin,  god.    Hymn  to.  No.  19. 
sippu,  threshold,  219,  13:18. 


,,  Google 


226 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


Sippar,  city,  158,  10;    160,  5;    166, 

19- 
sirgidda,  long  song,  140,  34. 
SiriS,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
SiriikaS,  daughter  of  Ninkasi,  144. 
SiriJkaigig,    daughter    of   Ninkasi, 

144, 
sirsagga,  first  melody,  117,  28;    139. 

SU-AN  =  kat  Hi,  194,  12.  See  also 
SU'-'INNINI,  194,  12. 

SU-NAM-ERIM-MA.  194,  13. 

SU-NAM-LU-GAL-LU.  194,  13. 

subura,  earth,  175,  3. 

ju-iuf,  su-ud-dm,  epithet  of  goddess 
of^unippak,  177,  ioandnote4. 

iu^ru,  hair  (P),  21;,  23. 

ittfeAaZ-fid.  title  of  Nebo,  163,  to. 

Sulpae,  god.  No.  16  II  22. 

Sumer,  land,  1 13,  21;  1 14,  1 1;  136, 


Tigris,  river,  183,  12. 
Tummal,  land,  190,  9; 


U. 


ud,  spirit,  word,  150,  1:4;  158,  16; 
159,  17:24. 

ul-al-tar,  191  n.  6. 

ulinnu,  girdle  cord,  19$,  20. 

Ulmal,  temple  of  Anunit,  i$8,  13; 
166,  3. 

Ur,  city,  134,  21;  137,  6.  Lamen- 
tation for,  tjo.  Other  refer- 
ences, No.  19,  4:7:8:i6:28:Rev, 
5;    151.3- 

Ur-azag,  king  of  Isin  {?),  140  n.  2. 

Ur-Engur,  king  of  Ur,  126  ff. 

urinu,  spear  (?),  173,  3. 

uTsaggal,  epithet  for  NinuraSa,  165. 
II.    For  Enbilulu,  170,  5. 

uiumgal,  117,  33. 


iumugan,  title  of  Girra,  177,  12  and 
note;    179,  3. 


Tablet  of  fates,  132  n.  3. 

Tammuz,  ancient  ruler,  208.  Lit- 
urgy to,  191.  Other  references, 
126;  208;   131,  20. 

iapaiu,  seize,  capture,  II'  utiappii, 
215,  31- 

tenuru,  cook,  196,  3;. 


l&hu,  flow,     li-iu-bu,  198,  16.     Cf. 

g&m  =  ia'ibu,  mitirtu,  words  for 

canal,  SAL  691-3. 
lag-sal,  liturgical  note,  lo^L  No.  21 

end. 
la-am,  138,  34;    139,  38;    140,  56. 
f^u,  be  enraged,  lI'MfiHU-mni,  197, 

6. 
ZI-TAR-RU-DA  =  nikisnapini,  194 

n.  6. 


y  Google 


DESCRIPTION  OF  TABLETS 


Number  IN  THIS 
Volume. 

Museum 
Number. 

Descrcption. 

1 

7771 

Dark  brown  unbaked  tablet.     Three  columns. 
Lower  edge  slightly  broken.     Knobs  at  left 
upper  and  left  lower  comers  to  facilitate  the 
holding  of  the  tablet.    H.  7  inches;  W.  6J; 
T.  i-|.     Second  tablet  of  the  Epic  of  Gil- 
gamish. 

,,  Google 


,,  Google 


AUTOGRAPH  PLATES 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY    OF    PENNSYLVANIA 

THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Vol.  X  No.  4 


SUMERIAN    LITURGIES    AND    PSALMS 

BY 

STEPHEN    LANGDON 

Professor  of  Assyriology 

AT  Oxford  University 


PHILADELPHIA 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM 

1919 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION 253 

SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS: 

Lamentation  of  Ishme-Dagan  Over  Nippur 245 

Liturgy  of  the  Cult  of  Ishme-Dagan 258 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Innini 260 

Psalm  to  Enlil 265 

Lamentation  on  the  Pillage  of  Lacash  by  the 

Elamites 268 

Lamentation  TO  Innini  on  the  Sorrows  of  Erech.  .  272 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Sin 276 

Lamentation  on  the  Destruction  of  Ur 279 

Liturgical  Hymns  of  the  Tammuz  Cult 285 

A  Liturgy  to  Enlil,  Elum  Gud-Sun 290 

Early  Form  of  the  Series  ''Babbar-Gim-i-ta. . . .  309 

Liturgy  of  the  Cult  of  Kesh 311 

Series  Elum  Didara,  Third  Tablet 323 

Babylonian  Cult  Symbols 330 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


INTRODUCTION 

With  the  publication  of  the  texts  included  in  this  the  last 
part  of  volume  X,  Sumertan  Liturgical  and  Epical  Texts,  the 
writer  arrives  at  a  definite  stage  in  the  interpretation  of  the 
religious  material  in  the  Nippur  collection.  Having  been  privi- 
leged to  examine  the  collection  in  Philadelphia  as  well  as  that 
in  Constantinople,  1  write  with  a  sense  of  responsibility  in 
giving  to  the  public  a  brief  statement  concerning  what  the 
temple  library  of  ancient  Nippur  really  contained.  Omitting  the 
branches  pertaining  to  history,  law,  grammar  and  mathematics, 
the  following  risumi  is  limited  to  those  tablets  which,  because 
of  their  bearing  upon  the  history  of  religion,  especially  upon 
the  origins  of  Hebrew  religion,  have  attracted  the  attention  of 
the  public  on  two  continents  to  the  collections  of  the  University 
Museum. 

Undoubtedly  the  group  of  texts  which  have  the  most  human 
interest  and  greatest  literary  value  is  the  epical  group,  desig- 
nated in  Sumerian  by  the  rubric  lag-sal}  This  literary  term 
was  employed  by  the  Sumerian  scribes  to  designate  a  compo- 
sition as  didactic  and  theological.  Religious  texts  of  such 
kind  are  generally  composed  in  an  easy  and  graceful  style 
and,  although  somewhat  influenced  by  liturgical  mannerisms, 
may  be  readily  distinguished  from  the  hymns  and  psalms 
sung  in  the  temples  to  musical  accompaniment.    The  ^agsal 

*  Inaddition  to  the  examples  of  epical  poems  and  hymns  cited  on  pages  I03-5of  this  volume 
note  the  long  mythological  hymn  to  Innini,  No.  j  and  the  hymn  to  Eolil,  No.  lo  of  this  part. 
An  unpublished  hymn  to  Enlil,  Ni.  9863,  ends  a-a  *Ea-lil  lag-ttd,  "O  praise  father  Enlil."    For 
Ni.  i3e$9,  cited  above  p.  104,  see  Poebel,  PBS.  V  No.  36. 
CJ3J) 


y  Google 


234  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

compositions'  are  mythological  and  theological  treatises  con- 
cerning the  deeds  and  characters  of  the  great  gods.  The  most 
important  didactic  hymns  of  the  Nippur  collection  and  in  fact 
the  most  important  religious  texts  in  early  Sumerian  literature 
are  two  six  column  tablets,  one  (very  incomplete)  on  the  Creation 
and  the  Flood  published  by  Dr.  Poebel,  and  one  (all  but  com- 
plete) on  Paradise  and  the  Fall  of  Man.  Next  in  importance  is 
a  large  six  column  tablet  containing  a  mythological  and  didactic 
hymn  on  the  characteristics  of  the  virgin  mother  goddess.* 
A  long  mythological  hymn  in  four  columns*  on  the  cohabitation 
of  the  earth  god  EnHl  and  the  mother  goddess  Ninlil  and  an 
equally  long  but  more  literary  hymn  to  the  virgin  goddess 
Innini^  are  good  examples  of  this  group  of  tablets  in  the  Nippur 
collection.'  One  of  the  most  interesting  examples  of  didactic 
composition  is  a  hymn  to  the  deified  king  Dungi  of  Ur.  By 
accident  both  the  Philadelphia  and  the  Constantinople  col- 
lections possess  copies  of  this  remarkable  poem  and  the  entire 
text  has  been  reconstructed  by  the  writer  in  a  previous  publi- 
cation.' I  have  already  signaled  the  unique  importance  of  this 
extraordinary  hymn  to  the  god-man  Dungi  in  which  he  is 
described  as  the  divinely  born  king  who  was  sent  by  the  gods 

'  So  far  as  the  term  Is  properly  applied.  Being  of  didactic  impoci  it  was  finally  attached  to 
grammatical  texts  in  the  phrase  'Nidaba  lag-sal,  "O  praise  Nidaba,"  i.  e.,  praise  the  patroness 
of  writing. 

'  Poebel,  PBS,  V  No.  2y,  translated  in  tlie  writer's  Lt  Poimt  SuMlritn  iu  Paradis,  33t>~ayj. 
Note  also  a  similar  epical  poem  to  Innini  partial  duplicate  of  Poebel  No.  a;  in  Mvhrman's 
Babylonian  Hymns  and  Prayirs,  No  i.  Here  also  the  principal  actors  are  Enki,  his  messenger 
Isimu,  and  "Holy  Innini"  as  in  the  better  preserved  epic.     Both  are  poems  on  the  exaltation  of 

•  Ni.  gao5  published  by  Barton,  MisuUantous  Babylonian  Inscriptions,  No.  4.  This  text 
is  restored  by  a  tablet  of  the  late  period  published  by  Pinches  in  JRAS.    1919. 

•  Ni.  7847,  published  in  this  part,  No.  3  and  partially  translated  on  pages  160-364. 

'  Undoubtedly  Ni.  1 1  )J7,  a  mythological  hymn  to  Enki  in  four  columns,  belongs  to  this  class. 
It  is  published  as  No.  14  of  this  part.  A  similar  lagsal  to  Enki  belongs  to  the  Constantinojide 
collection,  see  p.  45  of  my  Historical  and  Relipons  Texts. 

•  Historical  and  Riliftoui  Ttxts,  pp.  14-18. 


b:.  Goo,<^le 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  235 

to  restore  the  lost  paradise.^  The  poem  mentions  the  flood 
which,  according  to  the  Epic  of  Paradise,  terminated  by  divine 
punishment  the  Utopian  age.  The  same  mythological  belief 
underlies  the  hymn  to  Dungi.  Paradise  had  been  lost  and  this 
god-man  was  sent  to  restore  the  golden  age.  There  is  a  direct 
connection  between  this  messianic  hymn  to  Dungi  and  the 
remarkable  Epic  of  Paradise.  All  other  known  hymns  to  deified 
kings  are  liturgical  compositions  and  have  the  rubrics  which 
characterize  them  as  songs  sung  in  public  services.  But  the 
didactic  hymn  to  Dungi  has  the  rubric  ['Dungi]  jag-sal,  "O 
praise  Dungi."  It  would  be  diificult  to  claim  more  conclusive 
evidence  than  this  for  the  correctness  of  our  interpretation  of 
the  group  of  ^agsal  literature  and  of  the  entire  mythological 
and  theological  exegesis  propounded  in  the  edition  of  the  Epic 
of  Paradise,  edited  in  part  one  of  this  volume.* 

When  our  studies  shall  have  reached  the  stage  which  renders 
appropriate  the  collection  of  these  texts  into  a  special  corpus 
they  will  receive  their  due  valuation  in  the  history  of  religion. 
That  they  are  of  prime  importance  is  universally  accepted. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  the  history  of  religion  I  would 
assign  the  liturgical  texts  to  the  second  group  in  order  of  impor- 
tance. Surprisingly  few  fragments  from  the  long  canonical 
daily  prayer  services  have  been  found.  In  fact,  about  all  of  the 
perfected  liturgies  such  as  we  know  the  Sumerian  temples  to 
have  possessed  belong  to  the  cults  of  deified  kings.     In  the 

'SetPSBA.  1919.  )4' 

*  One  or  the  most  remarkable  tablets  in  the  Museum  isNi.  1400$,  a  didactic  poem  in  61  lines 
on  tbe  period  of  pre-culture  and  institution  of  Paradise  by  the  earth  god  and  the  water  god  in 
Dilmun.  Published  by  Barton,  MisceUaneaus  Babylonian  Intcriptiom,  No.  8.  The  writer's 
exegesis  of  this  tablet  will  be  found  in  Li  Poimt  Sumitittt  da  Paradis,  i};-]46.  It  is  not  called  a 
jaf-sal  probably  because  the  writer  considered  the  tablet  too  small  to  be  dignified  by  that  rubric. 
Similar  short  mythological  poems  which  really  belong  to  the  jag-sal  group  are  the  following: 
hymn  to  Shamash,  Radau,  Miscei.  No.  4;  hymn  to  Ninurta  as  creator  of  canals,  Radau,  BE, 
39,  No.  a,  translated  in  BL.,  7-1 1;  hymn  to  Nidaba,  Radau,  Mtscel.  No.  6. 


,,  Google 


236  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

entire  religious  literature  of  Nippur,  not  one  approximately 
complete  canonical  prayer  service  has  survived.  Only  frag- 
ments bear  witness  to  their  existence  in  the  public  song  services 
of  the  great  temples  in  Nippur.  A  small  tablet*  published  in 
part  two  of  this  volume  carries  a  few  lines  of  the  titular  or 
theological  litany  of  a  canonical  or  musically  completed  prayer 
book  as  they  finally  emerged  from  the  liturgical  schools  through- 
out Sumer.  Long  liturgical  services  were  evolved  in  the  temples 
at  Nippur  as  we  know  from  a  few  fragments  of  large  five  column 
tablets.*  The  completed  composite  liturgies  or  canonical 
breviaries  as  they  finally  received  form  throughout  Sumer  in 
the  Isin  period  were  made  by  selecting  old  songs  of  lament  and 
praise  and  re-editing  them  so  as  to  develop  theological  ideas. 
Characteristic  of  these  final  song  services  is  the  titular  litany  as 
the  penultimate  song  and  a  final  song  as  an  intercession.  A 
considerable  number  of  such  perfected  services  exist  in  the 
Berlin  collection.  These  were  obtained  apparently  from  Sippar.* 
The  writer  has  made  special  efforts  to  reconstruct  the  Sumerian 
canonical  series  as  they  existed  in  the  age  of  Isin  and  the  first 
Babylonian  dynasty.  On  the  basis  of  tablets  not  excavated 
at  Nippur  but  belonging  partly  to  the  University  Museum  and 
partly  to  the  Berlin  collection  the  writer  restored  the  greater 
part  of  an  Enlil  liturgy  in  part  2,  pp.  155-167.^  In  the  present 
and  final  part  of  this  volume  another  Enlil  liturgy  has  been 
largely  reconstructed  on  pages  290-306.*  From  these  two 
partially  reconstructed  song  services  the  reader  will  obtain  an 

'Ni,  113;  see  pp.  172-178. 

'  For  example,  Mvhrman,  No.  3:  Radau,  Miictl.  No.  1};  both  canonical  prayer  books  of 
Ihe  weeping  molher  class.  For  a  liturgy  of  Ihe  completed  composite  type  in  the  Tammuz  cult, 
see  Radau,  BE.  jo,  Nos.  1,  5,  6,  8,  9. 

•  See  ZiMMEHN,  Suimrhcbe  KuUticdtr.  p.  V,  note  i. 

*  The  base  text  here  is  Zjmmern,  KL.  No.  11. 

'  The  base  of  this  text  isZimmern,  KL.  No.  11. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  237 

approximate  idea  of  the  elaborate  liturgical  worship  of  the 
late  Sumerian  period.  These  were  adopted  by  the  Babylonians 
and  Assyrians  as  canonical  and  were  employed  in  interlinear 
editions  by  these  Semitic  peoples.  Naturally  the  liturgical 
remains  of  the  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  breviaries  are  much 
more  numerous  and  on  the  basis  of  these  the  writer  was  able  in 
previous  volumes  to  identify  and  reconstruct  a  large  number  of 
the  Sumerian  canonical  musical  services.  But  a  large  measure 
of  success  has  not  yet  attended  his  efforts  to  reconstruct  the 
original  unilingual  liturgies  commonly  written  on  one  huge 
tablet  of  ten  columns.  Obviously  the  priestly  schools  of  the 
great  religious  center  at  Nippur  possessed  these  perfected  prayer 
books  but  their  great  size  was  fatal  to  their  preservation.  It 
must  be  admitted  that  the  Nippur  collection  has  contributed 
almost  nothing  from  the  great  canonical  Sumerian  liturgies 
which  surely  existed  there. 

Much  better  is  the  state  of  preservation  of  the  precanonical 
liturgies,  or  long  song  services  constructed  by  simply  joining  a 
series  of  kiSubs  or  songs  of  prostration.  These  kiSub  liturgies 
are  the  basis  of  the  more  intricate  canonical  liturgies  and  in 
this  aspect  the  Nippur  collection  surpasses  in  value  all  others. 
Canonical  and  perfected  breviaries  may  be  termed  liturgical 
compositions  and  the  precanonical  breviaries  may  be  described 
as  liturgical  compilations,  if  we  employ  "composition"  and 
"compilation"  in  their  exact  Latin  sense.  Since  Sumerian 
song  services  of  the  earlier  type,  that  is  litufgical  compilations, 
are  more  extensively  represented  in  the  Nippur  temple  library 
than  in  any  other,  this  is  an  appropriate  place  to  give  an  exact 
description  of  this  form  of  prayer  service  which  preceded  and  pre- 
pared the  way  to  the  greatest  system  of  musical  ritual  in  any 
ancient  religion.     If  we  may  judge  from  the  literary  remains  of 


y  Google 


238  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

Nippur  now  in  the  University  Museum,  the  priestly  schools  of 
temple  music  in  that  famous  city  were  extremely  conservative 
about  abandoning  the  ancient  liturgical  compilations.  Thesedaily 
song  services,  all  of  sorrowful  sentiment  and  invariably  empha- 
sizing humility  and  human  suffering,  are  constructed  by  simply 
compiling  into  one  breviary  a  number  of  ancient  songs,  selected  in 
such  manner  that  all  are  addressed  to  one  deity.  In  this  manner 
arose  intricate  choral  compilations  of  length  suitable  to  a  daily 
prayer,  each  addressed  to  a  great  god.  Hence  we  have  in  the 
temple  libraries  throughout  Sumerand  Babylonia  liturgies  to  each 
of  the  great  gods.  Even  in  the  less  elaborate  kiSub  compilations 
there  is  in  many  cases  revealed  a  tendency  to  recast  and  arrange 
the  collection  of  songs  upon  deeper  principles.  A  tendency  to 
include  in  all  services  a  song  to  the  wrathful  word  of  the  gods 
and  a  song  to  the  sorrowful  earth  mother  is  seen  even  In  the 
Nippurian  breviaries  of  the  precanonical  type.  I  need  not  dilate 
here  upon  the  great  influence  which  these  principles  exercised 
upon  the  beliefs  and  formal  worship  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia, 
upon  the  late  Jewish  Church  and  upon  Christianity.  The 
personified  word  of  god  and  the  worship  of  the  great  mater 
dolorosa,  or  the  virgin  goddess,  are  ancient  Sumerian  creations 
whose  influence  has  been  effective  in  all  lands. 

As  examples  of  the  liturgical  compilation  texts  the  reader 
is  referred  especially  to  the  following  tablets.  On  pages  2go-292 
the  writer  has  described  the  important  compiled  liturgy  found  by 
Charles  Virolleaud.'  1 1  is  an  excellent  example  of  a  Nippurian 
musical  prayer  service.  It  contained  eleven  kiSubs,  or  prayers, 
and  they  are  recast  in  such  manner  that  the  whole  set  forth  one 
idea  which  progresses  to  the  end.  The  liturgy  has  in  fact  almost 
reached  the  stage  of  a  composition.    And  in  these  same  pages 

'  Now  in  the  Nies  Colleclion,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 


b:.  Goo,<^le 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  239 

the  reader  will  see  how  this  service  finally  resulted  in  a  canonical 
liturgy,  for  the  completed  product  has  been  recovered.  On 
pages  309-310  will  be  found  a  fragment,  part  of  an  ancient 
liturgy  to  Enlil  of  the  compiled  type.  Here  again  we  are  able 
to  produce  at  least  half  of  the  great  liturgy  into  which  the  old 
service  issued.  In  the  preceding  part  of  this  volume,  pages 
184-187,  is  given  the  first  song  of  a  similar  liturgy  addressed  to 
the  mother  goddess. 

Undoubtedly  the  most  important  liturgical  tablet  which 
pertains  to  the  ordinary  cults  in  the  Nippur  collection  is  dis- 
cussed on  pages  279-285.  The  breviary,  which  probably 
belongs  to  the  cult  of  the  moon-god,  derives  importance  from 
its  great  length,  its  theological  ideas,  especially  the  mention  of 
the  messengers  which  attend  the  Logos  or  Word  of  Enlil,  and 
its  musical  principles.  Here  each  song  has  an  antiphon  which 
is  unusual  in  precanonical  prayer  books  of  the  ordinary  cults.' 
Students  of  the  history  of  liturgies  will  be  also  particularly 
interested  in  the  unique  breviary  compiled  from  eight  songs  of 
prostration,  a  lamentation  for  the  ancient  city  of  KeS  with  theo- 
logical references.  This  song  service  was  popular  at  Nippur,  for 
remains  of  at  least  two  copies  have  been  found  in  the  collection. 
A  translation  is  given  on  pages  311-323. 

The  oldest  public  prayer  services  consisted  of  only  one 
psalm  or  song.  A  good  number  of  these  ancient  psalms  are 
known  from  other  collections,  especially  from  those  of  the  British 
Museum.  In  view  of  the  conservative  attitude  of  the  liturgists 
at  Nippur  it  is  indeed  surprising  that  so  few  of  the  old  temple 
songs  have  survived  as  they  were  originally  employed;  ancient 
single  song  liturgies  in  this  collection  are  rare.    The  following 


y  Google 


340  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

list  contains  all  the  notable  psalms  of  this  kind.  Radau, 
Miscellaneous  Sumerian  Texts  No.  3'  is  a  lamentation  of  the 
mother  goddess  and  her  appeal  to  Enlil  on  behalf  of  various 
cities  which  had  been  visited  by  wars  and  other  afflictions. 
Radau,  (7>iW.,  No.  16 has  th^Tuhncki-lu^ sir-gal^Enlil,  "A prayer 
of  prostration,  a  great  song  unto  Enlil."  A  psalm  of  the  weeping 
mother  goddess  similar  in  construction  to  Radau  No.  3  is  edited 
on  pages  260-264  of  this  volume.*  No.  7  of  this  part,  edited  on 
pages  276-279,is  an  excellent  illustration  of  the  methods  employed 
in  developing  the  old  single  song  psalms  into  compiled  liturgies. 
Here  we  have  a  short  song  service  to  the  moon  god  constructed 
by  putting  together  two  ancient  psalms.  The  rubrics  designate 
them  as  sagar  melodies,*  or  choral  songs,  and  adds  that  it  is 
sung  to  the  lyre.'  An  especially  fine  psalm  of  a  liturgical  char- 
acter was  translated  on  pages  1 15-1 17.  It  is  likewise  a  lament 
to  the  sorrowful  mother  goddess. 

The  student  of  Sumero- Baby  Ionian  religion  will  not  fail  to 
comment  upon  one  remarkable  lacuna  in  the  religious  literature 
of  every  Sumerian  city  which  has  been  excavated.  Prayers  of 
the  private  cults  are  almost  entirely  nonexistent.  Later  Baby- 
lonian religion  is  rich  in  penitential  psalms  written  in  Sumerian 
for  use  in  private  devotions.  These  are  known  by  the  rubric 
erSag^unga,  or  prayers  to  appease  the  heart.  Only  one  has  been 
found  in  the  Nippur  collection,'  and  none  at  all  have  been 
recovered  elsewhere.      Seals  of  Sumerians  showing  them  in 

1  Translated  by  Radau  on  pago  4)6-440. 

'  Abbreviation  for  ki'!ub-iii-da=UTu.  strophe,  song  of  prostration. 

■  No.  3  of  the  texts  in  part  4. 

'  sa-iar=pitnK  lakiiu,  chocal  music,  v.  Zimmern,  ZA.  31,  iii.  See  also  the  writer's  PBS. 
Vol.  XII.  p.  12. 

*nar-balag.  The  liturgisls  classified  the  old  songs  according  to  the  instrument  employed  in 
the  accompaniment.     See  SBP.  p.  ix. 

*  See  page  1 18  in  part  a. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN    LANC[)ON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  24I 

the  act  of  saying  their  private  prayers  abound  from  the  earliest 
period.  Most  of  these  seals  represent  the  worshipper  saluting 
a  deity  with  a  kiss  thrown  with  the  .hand.  The  attitude  was 
described  as  Su-illa, or  "Lifting  of  the  Hand."  Semitic  prayers 
of  the  lifting  of  the  hand  abound  in  the  religion  of  Babylonia 
and  Assyria.  Here  they  are  prayers  employed  in  the  incantation 
ritual.  We  know  from  the  great  catalogue  of  Sumerian  liturgical 
literature  compiled  by  the  Assyrians  that  the  Sumerians  had  a 
large  number  of  prayers  of  the  lifting  of  the  hand.'  In  Sumerian 
religion  these  were  apparently  purely  private  prayers  unconnected 
with  the  rituals  of  atonement.  At  any  rate  the  Nippur  collec- 
tions in  Constantinople  and  Philadelphia  contain  a  large  number 
of  incantation  services  for  the  atonement  of  sinners  and  the 
afflicted.  These  resemble  and  are  the  originals  of  the  Assyrian 
incantation  texts  of  the  type  uiukku  limnuii,  and  contain  no 
prayers  either  by  priest  {kiiuh  in  later  terminology  is  the  rubric 
of  priest's  prayers  in  incantations)  or  by  penitent  (Su-H-la's). 
The  absence  of  prayers  of  private  devotion  in  the  temple  library 
of  Nippur  is  absolutely  inexplicable.  Does  it  mean  that  the 
Sumerians  were  so  deficient  in  providing  for  the  religious  cure 
of  the  individual?  Their  emphasis  of  the  social  solidarity  of 
religion  is  truly  in  remarkable  contrast  to  the  religious  indi- 
vidualism of  the  Semite.  But  the  Sumerian  historical  inscriptions 
often  contain  remarkable  prayers  of  individuals.  The  seals  em- 
phasize the  act  of  private  devotion.  The  catalogue  of  their 
prayers  states  that  they  possessed  a  good  literature  for  private 
devotions.  When  one  considers  the  evidence  which  induces  to 
assume  that  they  possessed  such  a  literature,  its  total  absence 
in  every  Sumerian  collection  is  an  enigma  which  the  writer 
fails  to  explain. 

list  of  47  fu-il-ld  prayers  to 


,,  Google 


342  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM— BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

In  the  introduction  to  part  two  of  this  volume'  the  writer 
has  emphasized  the  peculiarly  rich  collection  of  tablets  in  this 
collection  pertaining  to  the  cults  of  deified  kings.  In  the  present 
part  is  published  a  most  important  tablet  of  that  class.  This 
liturgy  of  the  compiled  type  in  six  kiSubs  sung  in  the  cult  of  the 
god-man  Ishme-Dagan,  fourth  king  of  the  Isin  dynasty,  is 
unique  in  the  published  literature  of  Sumer.  Its  musical  intri- 
cacy and  theological  importance  have  been  duly  defined  on  pages 
245-247.  With  the  publication  of  these  texts  the  important 
song  services  of  the  cults  of  deified  kings  are  exhausted.  In 
addition  to  the  texts  of  this  class  translated  or  noted  in  part 
two,  I  call  attention  to  the  very  long  text  concerning  Dungi, 
king  of  Ur,  published  by  Barton,  Miscellaneous  Bahylonian 
Inscriptions  No.  3.  In  that  extremely  long  poem  in  six  columns 
of  about  360  lines*  there  are  no  rubrics,  which  shows  at  once 
that  it  is  not  a  cult  song  service.  Moreover,  Dungi  had  not 
been  deified  when  the  poem  was  written.  It  is  really  an  historical 
poem  to  this  king  whose  deification  had  at  any  rate  not  yet 
been  recognized  at  Nippur.  It  belongs  in  reality  to  the  same 
class  of  literature  as  the  historical  poem  on  his  father  Ur-Engur, 
translated  on  pages  126-136. 

The  only  Sumerian  cult  songs  to  deified  kings  not  in  the 
Nippur  collection  have  now  been  translated  by  the  writer  and 
made  accessible  for  wider  study.  One  hymn  to  Ur-Engur 
which  proves  that  he  had  been  canonized  at  his  capitoi  in  Ur 
will  be  found  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society  0/ Biblical  Literature, 
1918,  45-50.  The  twelfth  song  of  a  liturgy  to  Ishme-Dagan 
published  by  Zimmern  from  the  Berlin  collection  is  translated 
on  pages  52-56  of  the  same  article.     Finally  a  long  liturgy  to 

*  Pages  :o6-[09, 

*  Ltsi  than  half  the  tablet  is  preserved. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — 5UMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  243 

Libit-Ishtar,  son  of  Ishme-Dagan,  likewise  in  Berlin,  has  been 
translated  there  on  pages  69-79.^  Since  the  Berlin  texts 
probably  came  from  Sippar  their  existence  in  that  cult  is 
important.  For  they  prove  not  only  the  practice  of  cult  wor- 
ship of  deified  kings  in  that  city,  but  the  domination  of  Isin 
over  this  north  Semitic  city  is  thus  documented  for  a  period  as 
late  as  Libit-lshtar. 

Nearly  all  the  existing  prayer  services  in  the  cults  of  the 
deified  kings  of  Ur  and  Isin  are  now  published  and  translated. 
The  student  will  observe  that  they  are  all  of  the  compiled  type 
but  that  there  is  in  most  cases  much  musical  arrangement  and 
striving  for  combined  effect.  A  few,  and  especially  the  Ishme- 
Dagan  liturgy  published  as  No.  1  of  this  part,  reveal  theo- 
logical speculation  and  an  effort  to  give  the  institution  of  god- 
man  worship  its  proper  place  in  their  religion.  The  hymns  of 
these  cults  comparatively  so  richly  represented  in  this  volume 
will  be  among  the  most  interesting  groups  of  religious  texts 
supplied  by  the  excavations  at  Nippur.* 

Oxford,  July  9,  1919. 

>  Note  that  this  breviary  of  the  cult  of  LJbit-Ishtar  terminate)  with  two  ancient  Mngt,  one 
to  Innini  and  one  to  Ninl,  both  types  of  the  mother  godde«  who  was  always  intimately  coooected 
with  the  god-men  as  their  divine  mother. 

*  For  a  list  of  the  abbreviations  employed  in  this  volume,  see  page  98  of  Part  1. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


SUMERIAN  LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 

[3856  (No.  1) 

Lamentation  of  Ishme-Dagan  Over  Nippur 

The  liturgical  character  of  this  tablet  is  unique  among  all 
the  numerous  choral  compositions  of  the  Isin  period.  1 1  is  a  large 
two  column  tablet  containing  six  long  kiSub  melodies.  Liturgies 
of  such  kind,  compiled  by  joining  a  series  of  kiSubs,  or  melodies, 
attended  by  prostrations,  represent  an  advanced  stage  in  the 
evolution  of  these  compositions  in  that  the  sections  are  not 
mechanically  joined  together  by  selecting  older  melodies  without 
much  regard  for  their  connection,  but  as  a  whole  they  are  appar- 
ently original  compositions  so  arranged  that  they  develop  a  motif 
from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  liturgy.  Choral  services 
composed  of  kiSubs  in  the  cults  of  deified  kings  have  been  found^ 
wherein  the  deeds  and  personality  of  the  king  are  sung,  his  divine 
claims  are  emphasized  and  his  Messianic  promises  rehearsed.  But 
the  liturgy  here  published  resembles  in  literary  style  the  classical 
lamentations  which  always  formed  the  chief  temple  services  of 
Sumer  and  Babylonia.  It  more  especially  resembles  the  weeping 
mother  liturgies,  but  here  Ishme-Dagan  appears  in  the  lines  of 
the  service  in  a  rfile  similar  to  that  of  the  sorrowful  mother 
goddess  of  the  ordinary  liturgies,  as  he  weeps  for  Nippur. 

"Her  population  like  cattle  of  the  fields  within  her  have 
perished.    Helas  my  land  I  sigh." 

So  reads  a  line  from  the  second  melody. 

>  The  twelfth  kihib  of  a  liturgy  to  Ishme-Dagan  is  published  in  Zimmern's  KuUIudtr,  No.  km. 
A  somewhat  similar  song  service  of  the  cult  of  this  king  has  been  published  in  the  writer's  SuHwruii 
LitHTgiad  Texli,  178-187.  A  portion  of  a  series  to  Dungi  was  published  by  Radau  in  the  Wi/jr^cW 
AmtiotTsary  ValMme,  No.  1.  The  liturgy  to  Libit-lshtar  in  Zihmern.  K  L,  199  I— Rev.  I  7,  is 
composed  of  a  series  of  ia-(baT)-gid-da. 

(■«) 


,,  Google 


246  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Lines  of  similar  character  occur  repeatedly  in  the  laments 
of  the  mother  goddess  as  she  weeps  for  her  people  in  the  standard 
liturgies.  In  other  words,  the  cult  of  the  deified  kings  issues  here 
into  its  logical  result.  The  god  man  created  to  live  and  die  for 
his  people  usurps  the  sphere  of  the  earth  mother  herself.  And 
like  her  he  is  intimately  associated  with  the  fortunes  of  mankind, 
of  nature  and  all  living  creatures.  The  great  gods  and  the  hosts 
of  their  attendants  rule  over  man  and  the  various  phases  of  the 
universe  from  afar.  But  the  mother  goddess  is  the  incarnation 
of  fruitful  nature,  the  mother  of  man  whose  joys  and  sorrows  she 
feels.  So  also  in  this  remarkable  liturgy  the  deified  son  of  the 
great  gods  lives  among  men,  becomes  their  patron  and  divine 
companion. 

The  tablet  contained  originally  about  fifty  lines  in  each 
column,  or  200  in  all.  About  one-third  of  the  first  column  is 
gone.  The  first  melody  contained  at  least  fifty  lines  and  ended 
somewhere  shortly  after  the  first  line  of  Col.  II  of  the  obverse. 
It  began  by  relating  how  Enii)  had  ordered  the  glory  of  Nippur, 
and  then  had  become  angered  against  his  city,  sending  upon  it 
desolation  at  the  hands  of  an  invader.  When  we  take  up  the 
first  lines  of  Obv.  II  we  are  well  into  the  second  melody  which 
represents  Ishme-Dagan  mourning  for  fathers  and  mothers  who 
had  been  separated  from  their  children;  for  brothers  who  had 
been  scattered  afar;  for  the  cruel  reign  of  the  savage  conqueror 
who  now  rules  where  the  dark-headed  people  had  formerly 
dwelled  in  peace. 

At  about  the  middle  of  Obv.  II  begins  the  third  melody 
which  consists  of  38  lines  extending  to  Rev.  I  19.  In  this  section 
the  psalmist  ponders  upon  the  injustice  of  his  city's  fate,  and 
looks  for  the  time  when  her  woes  will  cease,  and  Enlil  will  be 
reconciled. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  347 

The  fourth  section  begins  at  line  24  of  Rev.  I  and  ended 
near  the  bottom  of  this  column  which  is  now  broken  away. 
Here  Ishme-Dagan  joins  with  the  psalmists  weeping  for  Nippur. 

Section  5  began  near  the  end  of  Rev.  I,  and  ends  at  line  16 
of  Rev.  11.  Here  begins  the  phase  of  intercession  to  Enlil  to 
repent  and  revenge  Nippur  upon  the  foe.  Section  6,  beginning 
at  Rev.  II  17,  probably  continued  to  the  end  of  the  column  and 
the  tablet.  Here  the  liturgy  promises  the  end  of  Nippur's  sorrow. 
Enlil  has  ordered  the  restoration  of  his  city  and  has  sent  Ishme- 
Dagan,  his  beloved  shepherd,  to  bring  joy  unto  the  people. 

After  sections  2  and  3  follows  the  antiphon  of  one  or  two 
lines.  The  ends  of  sections  1  and  4  are  lost  but  we  may 
suppose  that  antiphons  stood  here  also.  Section  5  does  not  have 
an  antiphon.  Since  section  6  ended  the  liturgy  it  is  not  likely 
that  an  antiphon  stood  there. 

Obverse.    Col.  I 

(About  eighteen  lines  broken  away.) 

I Hg  ba-ra-pad-da  i. 

2.  *A-nun-na-ge-ne  tta-ba-an-ri-gi-  2.  The  Anunnaki  he  caused  to  take 

ei-dm  their  seats.* 

^.  ub-ijMtkkin-tti^  ki  di-gal  tar-TU  3.  In  the  Assembly   Hall,   place 

where  the  great  judgments 

are  decided, 
4.  ei-bar-e  si-di  ba-Ta-an-ju-uP-dm  4.  Decisions  to  arrange  he  caused 

them  to  know. 
J.  dingir-bi-ne  ki'd&r  ba-ab- gar-ra*  ;.  These  gods  he  caused  to  take 

up  there  their  abode. 

'  iM-frii-  is  for  lUM-ifl,  emphatic  prefix.     See  PBS,  X  pt.  i  p.  76  n.  4.    Cf.  na-ri-bi,  verily  jhe 
utters  for  thee,  BE.  30.  No.  1,  io. 

'On  the  philological  meaning  of  this  name,  se«  VAB.  IV  136.  ^y 

*  For  the  suffixes  ei,  ui,  denoting  plural  of  the  object,  see  Sum.  Gr.  p.  16B. 

*0n  ki-dAr-far  cf.  Gudea,  Cyl.  B  13,  [9. 


,,  Google 


248 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


6.  iug-ldi-bi  im-iub-ba  aga-bi  im- 

ri-a 

7.  ki4ugal  du-aiag^  l^in-st^  uni.'- 

gal-ba 

8.  tin*  lid  bal-bal-e  mu-iii  be-ib- 

tar-ra 

9.  Nibru-iki)  uru  gii-gig-dagal-la- 

bi-H 

10.  uku-sag-gig-ga  ni-im-ii-ib-te-en- 

na 

1 1 .  ki-d&T-ba  gU-ni  a-gsm*  ba-ra-an- 

iub 

12.  ab  sig-gan-dHtg-ga-gitn  e-ne  sig- 

gan-ba-ra-an-d&g 

13.  uru    iag-bi    er-gig    stg-    bi 

14.  en-na*  dam'  dmgir  ga-io'an-bi 

li-bi  nu'iar-ri^ 

1 5.  i-gu-la  la-pa-ag  ib-pt-wbi 

16.  i-ri-a-sHd-gitn  galu  nu-un-iur-iur 


.  hi ibrtt-{k't)  uru  ki  Ugir-Ugir-gal- 
gal-e-ne  iu-im-tna-an-lifA'-ei- 


6.  Their  clean  sacrificial  food  he 

gave,  their  crowns  he  clothed 
upon  them. 

7.  In  the  king's  place,  the  throne 

room,  the  ]finsig  of  the  vast 
abode. 

8.  The  libation  of  wine  and  honey 

yearly  he  decreed. 

9.  For    Nippur    the    city    whose 

shadow  extends  afar 

10.  The  people,  the  dark  headed,  he 

caused  to  have  reverence. 

1 1 .  But  its  habitations  he  cursed . . 

12.  Like  scattered  cows  he  scattered 

them. 

13.  The  city's  interior  is  filled  with 

weeping, 

14.  While  the   consort,   its   divine 

queen,  is  not  solicitous  for  her. 

15.  The  great  house  which  knew  the 

cry  of  multitudes, 

16.  Like  a  vast  building  in  ruins 

men  enter  not. 

17.  In  Nippur,  the  city  where  great 

princes  were  prosperous, 


18. 


a-na-dl  &-gu  itii-in-de-ei'" 


18.  Why  have  they  fled? 


'  Usually  written  di-ajaf.  throne  room.  On  the  meaning  of  du  in  this  word,  see  AJSL. 
jj,  107.     Written  also  d&-ata(,  in  Ni.  ;  1005  1 1  9 

'  Cf.  Gjdea,  Cyl.  A  i^,  14,  the  kin-gi  of  the  unu-gal. 

•  Br.  77io.     The  sign  TE  is  here  (unufied.     Cf.  OBI.  127,  Ohv.  5. 

*  Tin  alone  may  mean  "wine,"  as  in  Gudea.  Cyl.  B,  ;,  31;  6,  1.  See  alsoNiKOLSKi,  No. 
164,  duk-tin,  a  jar  of  wine. 

' a-gim=dimltH,  ban.  SBH.  59,  i;.  a-gim  if'im-bal-i.  The  ban  may  he  elude.  Ni.  no6s 
Rev.  II  35.    Unpublished.    The  line  is  rot  entirely  clear;  cf,  Bbunnow,  No.  337;. 

'  For  en-na  in  the  sense  of  "while."  see  Pery,  Sin  in  LSS.  page  41,  16. 

'  The  sign  is  imperfectly  made  on  the  tablet 

•Cf.  SEP.  338.  M. 

'  yA  is  probably  Identical  in  usage  with  PES.  and  the  idea  common  to  both  is  "be  many, 
extensive,  abundant."  Note  Zimmern,  Kidlludet  19  Rev.  has  ^/f  where  SBP.  13,  3  has  PES. 
fu-^ioccursin  Gudea,  Cyl.  A  16.  33;   11.9;   19,  9and  CT.  1;,  7.  37. 

>*On  ugu-df^laku,  na'butu,  to  run  away,  see  Delitzsch.  Gioaar  p.  43.  Also  ugu-hi-an- 
di-t,  V  R.  3sa  17;  i-fi-di,  RA.  10.  78,  14;  A-guba-an-dl,  if  he  run  away.  VS.  13.  73  9  and  84,  11, 


b:.  Goo,<^le 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


249 


19.  uku  sag-gig  gi-sa-ii-a*  udu-gim 

be-ib-?*-a 

20.  ei?)-en-U   KAK-RU*   er   a-mir 

iag  PA-ljI-BAD-a 


21,  fli-ffi  har*  be-ib- 


kl 


iag  nu-ub-ii-lug-e 

"ih  "^d-ld  mu-un-tuk-a-ri^ 

gig-ga  a-a  na 

iig ne  ba-dHr-ru-ne-ei 

gar-ra-bi  er-iii  ba-ab-bi-ne 

luh^  t&r-rtf-ba-tie 

sir-ri-ei  ba-ab-bi-ne 

ki-d^T-bi  kar-ra 


im-li'$\r-sir-e-ne-eV 

.  ... ru-ne-ttig 
■ .  ga(?)nu-pi'gini 

sui' 

(End  of  Col.  I.) 


ig.  The  people,  the  dark  headed, 
all  of  them  like  sheep 

20.  How  long  shall  loud  crying{?), 

weeping  and  wailing  distress 
(?)  the  heart? 

2 1 .  How  long  shall  the  soul  be  terri- 

fied? 

32.  And  the  heart  repose  not? 

33.  To  the  drum  and  cymbals  I  sing. 

24 sorrowfully  (?) 

25 brick they  dwell. 

26 in  tears  they  speak. 

27 are  made  small. 

28 in  misery  they  speak. 

39 whose  habitations  are 

desolated. 
30.  Unto they  have  hastened. 

31 ? 

32 like  one  that  knows  not 

33 is  in  confusion. 


Col.  II 
(About  fifteen  lines  broken  away.)' 

I gdl  I 

2 -e  ba'ab-diig-im*  2 

3 ma-lal  im-mi  3 


with  variant  7^,  ti  it-da-pa-ar  —  uJlappar,  \!heti\(.ehimse\f  it/ay.  i-gu-ba-an-de-iu,  when  thou 
fl«st,  BE.  )i,  38,  3).  &-pt-ba-de.  Genouillac,  Imniaire  944;  Clav  MiscilUn  18  V  71:  md 
ii-gu^a-an-dt,  "If  a  boai  lloat  away,"  ibid.  IV  14.    See  also  Grant  AJSL.  )],  100-3. 

'  Sic!  gH-sa-bi  is  expected;  cf.  RA.  11,  14;,  )t  ii-sa-hi  =  napbar-lu-nit. 

'Sign  oblilerated;   the  traces  resemble  SU. 

'Read  perhaps  dO-iub^HodH  Jd  rigmi,  to  shoul  loudly.  Cf.  dig  sir-raiui-liii'ji-jti^riimt 
jarbii  addiii,  ASKT.  m,  la.     Passim  in  astrological  texts. 

<  The  tablet  has  MAS.    The  Semitic  would  be  adi  mati  kaballu  iparrad. 

*Ti  is  apparently  an  emphatic  element  identical  in  meaning  with  dm;  cf.  SBP.  10,  7-11. 
Note  n.  variant  of  fum,  SBH.  95.  3)-Zimmern,  KL.  13  I  8. 

'Sic!    Double  plural,    tl  probably  denotes  the  past  tense,  see  Sum.  Gr.  g  334. 

'Sign  BrOhnow,  No.  11308. 

*  The  first  melody  or  liturgical  section  probably  ended  somewhere  in  this  lost  passage  at  the 
top  or  Col.  M. 

•T«it/*-/f5.' 


y  Google 


250 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


4 evil  they  know  not,  good 

they  have  decreed. 

5.  Bitter  lament  I'  utter. 

6.  Her  population  like  cattle  of  the 
fields  within  her  have  per- 
ished. 

7.  Helas!  my  Land!  I  sigh. 

8.  Maid  and  young  man  and  their 
children  cruelly  have  been 
scattered  far  and  wide. 

9.  Tearfully  1  sigh. 
10.  Their  brothers  like  a  rain  storm 

have  fled  afar. 
I  i.  1  cease  not  to  weep. 

12.  The  household  like  a  cow,  whose 
calf  has  been  separated  from 
her,  stand  by  themselves  with 
sorrowful  souls. 

13.  They  have  lapsed  into  the  mis- 
ery of  silence. 

14.  Oh  sing  to  the  lyre!  The  wallers 
like  a  child  nursing  mother 
who  cries  in  woe 

15.  because  of  them  devised  lamen- 
tation. 

16.  The  city  whose  lord  had  been 
magnified, 

17.  In  whose  presence  a  hostile  rule 
has  been  established,  with 

sighing  they  have  caused  to 
walk. 

'  The  subject  i;  hhme-Dagan. 

■The  sign  is  a  clearly  made  Br.  No.  1037;  but  probably  an  error  for  103)4  ^ot  sir-ri-ei 
see  BA.  V  6^3,  31;  SBH.  ;6  Rev.  37;  Zimmern,  KL.  is  Rev.  17. 

'This  compound  verb  di-e-sud  here  for  the  lirst  time,  di-e  is  probably  connected  with  dt 
to  flee.    At  the  end  AS  h  written  for  AN.    Read  a-4i  and  construe  Ui  as  a  plural? 

*ful^taUi,  restrain,  is  ordinarily  construed  with  the  infinitive  alone;  U-dM  tiM-»i-t¥l-t-*ti 
^damSma  id  ikaUa,  Lang.  B.L.  So.  35:  SBH.  133,65;  66,  1$,  etc. 

'  Confinns  SAI.  t^iy}^ulf\u,  dumb,  grief  stricken. 

•  Variant  of  jJj-iJj,  etc.     See  Sum.  Gr.  p.  237  sig.  3.     Also  PoiBEL,  PBS.  V  36,  39. 
'  On  the  liturgical  use  of  balag-di,  see  BL.  p.  XXXVI  [. 

*  Vit.  of  ad-du-gi^Ml  nissHi,  IV  R.  11433:  ad-da-it,  ZiM.  K.L.  13  II  3.  See  for  discussion, 
Lanc.  PBS.  X  137  n.  7. 


4.   iul^nu-^t-ne  nig-dug 

be-ib-tar-riMti-dm 

5.  i-lu-gig       im-nu 

6.  nam-Iii-gAl-bi  mdi-aniu-gim  iag- 

ba  mi-ni-ib-IU-la-ai 

7.  a  ka-na-im-mu  im-me 

8.  ki-el  kalag  tul-iul-ld-bi-ne  sur*-ri- 

-ei  mi-mi-ib-  sal-la-dl 

9.  ii-a-bi        im-me 

10,  iei-bi  imi-dugud  Hg-gd-gim  di-e- 

he-ib-iud-dm' 

1 1 ,  er-^a       nu-       gul-*       e 

12,  i-e  &b  amar-bi   kud-du  gim  ni- 

bi-iii  ur-glg-ga^  im-gub 


sig-sig*  ni-  med-  mat 


14.  bdlag-di''  lu-ad-dug-ga-ge*-ru  um- 
me-da-u-a-di'gim 


1 5.  mtt-ii  er-ra  mi-ni-ib-bal-bal-e-ne 

16.  uTU^-mu-un-bi  sag-ib-ta-an-dim- 


17.  igi-^i  si  kAr-ra  ib-ta-an-gar-ra 
ad-e-ei  ba-an-ara-dS 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — 5UMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  2$  i 

i8.  i-jid  kur-kur-ra  igi'iii  ba~an-gin- 


19.  uku  sag-gig-gi  wl-fi'  be-ib-tiib-ba 

20.  a-na  tb-ag  a-na  im-ia-lam-^na-bi* 

21.  ii-mu-un-biib-ta-k^isag-ki-amu- 

un-du 
32.        ki-i«if-    gA-    2    kam 


18.  As  for  the  faithful  temple, 
which  in  the  lands  excelled 
all, 

ig.  (Where)  the  people,  the  dark 
headed,  reposed  in  securily; 

20.  What  has  done  it,  what  has  de- 

stroyed it? 

21.  Its  lord  is  a  fugitive,  he  hastens 

infiigbt. 

22.  A    melody   with    prostrations. 

Second  section. 


23.  me-gal  iag-bi*  ba-ra-an-i-a-ii  gu- 
gig-ga  KW-ma/'-fliE 


gii-gi-gM-bi-im* 


23.  The  meaning  of  the  great  decrees 

they  have  glorified.    Sorrow- 
ful words  they  restrain  not. 

24.  This  is  its  antiphon. 


25.  uru   it-mu-un-^fi    iag   ba-da-an- 

dib-ha 

26.  en-iii  la-ba-U-gur-ru  su^*-4m-bi 

nu-  urn-  im  me 


27,  sig-bi    a-na-hi    glT-ib-ta-an-gar 

28.  tuHu)  ^a'pa-dg  m4-'nul-bi  ab-ta 

ib-ta-  an-dal 
ig.  i  ?  lu  stg  nar-balag  dg-ji-ba* 


25.  Thecitywhoselordisdistressed,^ 

26.  Until  when  shall  it  not  return 

(to  its  rest)?  Until  when 
shall  its  "How  long"  not  be 
spoken? 

27.  Why  are  its  brick  walls  trodden 

underfoot  ? 

28.  The  doves  screaming  flew  from 

their  nests. 

29.  The     temple the     sweet 

voiced  flute. 


'  A  new  ideograTH.     Perhaps  ailu  klnu,  "sure  foundation." 

■  For  suffixed  ni,  bi,  ba  in  interrogative  sentences  note  also  a-na  av-na-ab-du^-ni.  What  can 
I  add  to  thee?  Genouillac,  Drebtm,  No.  1,  \2.  a-ba  ku-ul-ia-ia.  Who  shall  restrain?  NJ. 
4610  Rev.  I. 

'See  BL.  p.  XLV.  and  PBS.  X  iji  note  1. 

*On  the  anticipative  construct,  see  {  138  of  the  grammar. 

'  nu-mal  are  uni:ertain.     The  tablet  is  worn  at  this  point. 

*0n  the  use  of  this  term,  see  PBS.  X  iji  n.  1  and  iSa,  a. 

'Cf.  BL.  MO,  II. 

'Written  Br.  3046,  but  the  usual  form  is  the  (hiu,  Br.  3009.  sKi-dm-bi=ai»lap-lti, 
POEBEi.,  PBS.  V  131  IX  8:  cf.  also  lines  9  and  10  ibid.  In  later  texts  sui-a^atulap.  Haupt, 
ASKT.  131,  11.  Delitisch,  H.  W.  4411.  ntuUp  has  the  derived  meaning  of  mercy,  the  answer 
to  the  "How  long"  refrain  as  in  this  passage.  See  also  5BP.  241  note  17  and  Schrank.  LSS. 
Ill  1.  S3 

•  Cf.  nar-balag  tug-d»g-ga,  Poebel,  PBS.  V  25  IV  48.   Our  text  has  the  nusd  form  ag-iA. 


,,  Google 


152 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


30 be-itt-gi  30. 

31.  Entirely  destroyed.  31, 

32.  i  dH-  na\  32. 

33.  i  ni-nu-tuk'gim  si-ga 33. 

34.  dg-me-bi  ntt'O^ag-aiag-ga  34. 

35.  iu-lui-bi    kur-kur-ra    nu-ub-da-  35. 

sui^-gim 

36.  iur-be-in-i:al    tu^-ni    jb-ta-an-(ig  36. 
37-  dg-gtg-ur-ra  a  a-ie-ra  mu-un-di  37. 

38.  (a-I**  e^j>  na-^m-ga-lim*  dU-a  la-  38. 

39.  dg'tl-du-a-gim  iur-ri^  {ag-be-in-  39. 

40.  sig-bi  pa-e  a-na-al  ib-ta-an-i  40. 


The  temple  violently 

The  temple  like  one  without  rev- 
erence   

Its  regulations  unholy  ones .... 

Its  cult  of  ablutions  like  those 
which  had  not  been  chosen 
above  those  of  all  lands 

He  has  demolished,  its  wealth 
he  seized  away. 

In  misery  of  soul  how  long  shall 
1  utter  lament? 

Why  after  the  destruction  has 
been  done  is  it  not  respected? 

As  one  who  accomplishes  pure 
things  this  one  has  uttertd  a 
curse: — 

"Why  rise  her  brick-walls  in 

effulgent  glory?" 


Reverse,  Col.  I 

1 .  gig-an-bil'-ba  tag-ba  er  he-in-\xi- 

em 

2.  d-^e  k&r  dg-gig  bt'ib-aga-a 


3.  it-mu-un-bi  im-^l-dm  iu-bi  be- 

rn-gi-dvi' 

4.  uru-bi  i-bi  in-gul-gul-dm 

5.  iir-bi  jn-sir-ra-dm  htim*-e-?te  in- 


'Fatdli-na-'UI(ii,seeRA.  11,  146,);. 
■Wiitlen  Br.  iO^S^nasilii'- 

*  For  la-li,     Cf.  BA.  V  679,  T4. 

*  Probably  a  varianl  of  namiatam,  namiilim 

*  The  demonstralive  pronoun  f^r.  St. 

« mftii  k  urra.  IV  R.  ja  65;  CT.  16.  »o.  68. 
'Text^-^i- 

•Sign  /^i.  Utim,  lidm^idintiH  is  usually 
14  f,  amttu  GIM  =  iditnui.  passim  in  Neo-B; 


J .  Night  and  day  within  her  wail- 
ing is  made. 

2.  Now  the  stranger  has  wrought 

insult. 

3.  Its  lord  like  a  storm  wind  ibeir 

bands  have  removed(?) 

4.  Their  city,  their  temple,  he  has 

destroyed. 
$.  Its  foundation  he  laid  waste,  the 
skilled    workmen    he  trans- 
ported. 


wrillen  with   the  sign  GIM.  PoeBEL,  PBS.  V 
I  by  Ionian  contracts. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


253 


6.  dam   dumurU   iag-ba   mi-ni-in- 

dig-ga-dm 

7.  uru-bi  uru'iub-ba   im-ma-ni-in- 

lu-ra-dtn 

8.  mu-un-ga-ii  ni-e  be-in-ne-ra-dn^ 

9.  uru'gdl4a-bi  tm-gdl4a  mi-ni-in- 

lu-ra-dm' 

10.  dim-ma-H  glr  ib-ta-an-kir-ra-dm 

1 1 .  tug^i  in-sui*-dm  lil-e  be-in-sig- 

dm 

12.  6-kai-a-bi    ib-4a-an-^ar-ra-dm 
ga-iu-bi mi-ni-ib-4il-la-dm 


i-t  kHr  dg-rig*  be-ib-aga-a 

a-ie-ir-gig  im-me  er  be-ib-4u4u 

balag-di  galu    i-Iu  ba-ab-bi-dm 

lag  nu-ii-ba-bi  mu-un-na-ni-ib- 

ii-ii 

H-mtMin-bi  me-bi  ba-ra-an-i-a- 

dV 

d-bi    nu-mu-un-lag-ga-dnt    li-bi 

nu-iar-ra-dm 


6.  Wife  and  children  within  her  he 

slew, 

7.  Their  city  a  subjected  city  he 

caused  to  become.' 

8.  Its  property  he  himself  took  as 

plunder. 

9.  Their  city  which  was  he  has 

caused  to  become  a  city  which 
is  not. 

10.  Its  works  of  art  he  placed  a 

hostile  foot  upon. 

11.  Its  garments'  he  seized  away, 

the  winds  tore  them  in  shreds. 

12.  Its  food  and  drink  he  pilfered. 

13.  Their  infants{?) he  caused 

to  perish. 

14.  The  temple  a  stranger  plun- 

dered. 

15.  Bitter  sighing  1  utter,  tears  1 

pour  out. 

16.  Oh  sing  to  the  lyre,  he  that 

speaks  the  songs  of  wailing. 

17.  Their  hearts  which  are  not  glad 

it  will  pacify. 

18.  The  decrees  of  their  lord  they 

have  glorified. 

19.  He*  concerns  himself  not  with 

their  oracles;    he  cares  not 
for  their  future. 


BLNo.  51. 


'  Lilerally,  "caused  to  enter." 

■munjj  with  ra,  to  carry  away  property  as  booty.  seeSBH.  No.  )2  Rev.  3i  and 
The  comparison  wilh  line  1 1  suggests,  however,  another  interpretation,  imm^r-*  bt-i 
"the  storm-wind  carried  away." 

*  It)  linea  7  and  9  the  verb  tar  is  employed  in  the  sense  of  "to  cause  an 
bring  about  the  entrance  or  a  condition  or  state  of  alTairs. 

*Br.  1 1208. 

*  The  passage  refers  to  the  priests'  robes  and  garments  of  the  temph 
SBP,  4.  9. 

•Variant  of  tutm-ri^-aga  —  ialilu. 
'SeeObv.  M  aj. 

*  Enlil. 


y  Google 


UNrvERsmr  museum — Babylonian  section 


ki'iub-gH  ■^-kam^ma-Am  20.  A    melody    with    prastrations. 

,  Third  section. 


21.  me-gal-gal-la-ni  a-gim  ba-ra-an- 


22.  d-bi  la-ba-an-tag-ga-dm  li-bi  nil- 
tar-ra-dm 


23.        giJ-gi-gdl-bi-im 


21.  His  great  decrees  thus  he  has 

ordered. 

22.  He  has  concerned  himself  not 

with  their  oracles;  he  cared 
not  for  their  future. 

23.  This  is  its  antiphon. 


24.  mu4u    sir-ra*    na-im~tar-gig'ga 

25.  me  ib-ii-en^-ne-en  er  im-H-Ui- 

m-en 

26.  d-le  balag-di  sir-iun  ne 

27.  HAR-ditr-ra-^mu  ma-ar  ba-b't-ru- 

dm 

28.  i-di-H  kui-a  im-ma-slg*-ga-mu 

29.  gatu^'bi  er-ra  ma-an-m^-m^-ne- 

^m 

30.  d-U  iag-iu*-mu  ni-t&b-tdb^a-mit 

3 1 .  d'U  dUr-ra-bi  ma-ar  galu  mu-da- 

an-^H-dm 

3a.  a-rif  gig-ga  iag-sir-ra-mu 

33.  u-a  tuT-ra-mu  er-ra  ma-an-iuk- 

dm 

34.  ii  i-du-a  ki-dHr-a-ne-ne 

35.  nar-e-ei  ba-ah-gar-ra  ni-tuk  ba- 

ab-iuf-ra-Am 


24.  He  of  melodious  song  the  sor- 

rowful fate  weeps  for. 

25.  Sound  of  mourning  he  causes  to 

arise;  lamentation  he  utters. 

26.  Now  oh  sing  to  the  lyre!    They 

that  know  the  melodies 

27.  My shall  speak  for  me. 

28.  Now  I  am  filled  with  sighing. 

29.  Her  population  offer  prayers  to 

me. 

30.  Now  my  intercession,  my  plead- 

ing(?). 
3!.  Now  mightily  the  population 
unite  with    me   in    making 
known. 

32.  Upon  ways  of  pain  my  mercy' 

33.  Oh  woe!  my  children  weep  for. 

34.  In  the  house,  the  well  builded 

temple,  in  their  dwelling, 
3$.  Sound  like  one  chanting  is  raised 
and  praise  is  diminished. 


■  Rendered  id  iirii.  BL.  95,  19.    On  this  titfe  for  a  psalmist,  see  BL.  XXIV. 

*  h!  has  evidently  some  meaning  similar  to  the  one  given  in,  the  translation  but  it  has  not  yet 
been  found  in  this  sense  in  any  other  passage.  We  have  here  the  variant  of  il,  ti''bak<i  with 
vowel  II.    See  Suit.  Gr.  313  and  131. 

'  DUL-DU.    The  sign  DUL  is  erroneously  written  REC.  136,    In  the  text  change  11  to  Ii". 

*  Br.  3739. 

*  Here  treated  as  plural. 

•The  tablet  has  SU.     For  fag-ju  synonym  ot  tcililv.  see  IV  R.  ii*b  Rev.  j. 
^libbu  riiu;  see  Zimmern,  KL.  No.  8  I  3  and  IV  38. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


36.  galu  erlm-eka  na-dmrtnu  ib-til^ 

37.  er-ra    ma-pad^{?)ma-an-m^-md- 

ne-dm 

38.  iag  dg-gig-ga  ib-sig-mu  ad^i-H 

Pl-g^-bi    di-ib-Ud-di-ne-dm 

39.  er-biug;&*~mdmu^n-mil-'md-dam 

40.  E+SAL*  iag-iji-du  ma-ar  ma- 

{an-iuk4uk-e-ne-&m^ 

41.  'Mu-ul-lil 


36.  The  foe  has  caused  my  land  to 

perish. 

37.  They  beseech 

38.  My  heart  which  is  filled  with 

misery  by  their  wailing. . . . 
may  they  calm. 

39.  Their  weeping  is  made  unto  me. 

40.  In  the  mother  goddess'  sanctu- 

ary prayer  to  me  they  offer. 

41.  Enlil 


(About  twelve  lines  broken  away.)* 


Reverse  II 


3 

4.  [ . .      miirra-ab-\i{ig   mu-  rut-ab 
5 ^g-ga-gim 

6.  [  m]u-ra-ab-dAg  mu-na-ab^ 

7.   ago-  a-  mu 

8 «»-       na-       ab 

9.  [  '\ma-a[r  ia]l4a 

10 ib-da^  KA-mu-na-  ab 

II iar-ra-ge-ei      iag-iji-du 

12.  arrui'  ma-ra-tuk-tuk* 


Have  mercy  upon  n 


'  The  Hgn  like  many  others  on  this  tablet  is  imperfectly  made,  ma-pad?  or  mn-Uf?  The 
meaning  is  obscure. 

»  Text  uncertain.    Perhaps  PISI-gi-hi. 

■  Written  A-KA.    An  unpublished  Berlin  syllabar  gives  A-KA  (.uga)  —mniJiu. 

*Br.  j;i}.  For  this  sign  with  value  tnalUkti,  see  Delitzsch.  H.  W..  sub  voct  and  BA.,V 
630,  30.    The  Sumerian  value  is  ama,  Chicago  Syllabar,  341  in  AJSL.  33.  183. 

■Restored  from  an  unpublished  text  in  Constantinople,  Ni.  711. 

*  Section  4  ended  somewhere  in  this  break. 
'  Probably  a  refrain. 

•  For  the  reading,  see  AJSL.  j),  183, 140. 
•SeeBL.  138,11. 


y  Google 


256 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


13.  iag-iu  iag-sig  ib-ta-ba-e  iag4ai 
ma-ra-an-gar-ra-me(sic  !)> 


14.  sag-juji-ji-  Pgii-iub-ba-ia  ul-iu* 
ma-ra-an-m^-md 


1 5.  dg-kHr-Tt  ia-ar*  i-ri-ih-aga-e  tu-bi 
di-ib-gi-gi" 


16.  uru-ki-a  iu-bar-ri  mi-ju-a  mur- 
ri'  di-ib-sig-gi 


17.  ki-lub  gU  ^-kamtna-dm 


13.  Thy  heart  whose  portion  has 

been  affliction  become  for  me 
a  glad  heart. 

14.  Thy  head  which  is  held  aloof 

turn  unto  me  to  glorify  thy 
portion. 

15.  The  hostile  deeds  which  he  did 

unto  thee  be  returned  unto 
his  hand. 

16.  In  the  city  which  knew  not  for- 

giveness let  there  be  given 
the  cry  of  multitudes. 

1 7.  A  melody  of  prostrations.   Fifth 

section. 


18.  d'U  i-mu-un-tu  gu-iub-ba   kur 

me-e-U-in-Ta-dm 

19.  arruV  ma-ra-an-iuk-dmna-dm-iu 

in-lar-ra-dm 

20.  jf|-{M   a-U-ir   ib-ta-an-i-a   ib-si 

be-in-dug-ga-dm 

21.  iar-idg-gi-iu-ra^ma-ra-ni-in-tu- 

ra-dm 

32.  ^Nin-uraid    maikim    kalag-ga 

iag-ju  be-in-tuk-dm* 

23.  dun-i-a-ni      gH-ib-U'in-gub-ia' 

dm» 

24.  i-kur  ffalag-l^ag  du-du-u-dam  d- 

mu-un^  ba-an-ag-dm 


18.  Now  thy  \ord  anger  upon  the  foe 

will  direct. 

19.  He  will  have  mercy  and  will 

decree  thy  fate. 

20.  Unto    thy    brick   walls   where 

lamentation    arose    he    will 
command  "  it  is  enough." 

2 1 .  Thy  happy  soul  he  will  cause  to 

return  for  me. 

22.  Ninurash  the  valiant  guardsman 

will  sustain  thy  head. 

23.  His  pastor'*  he  will  establish 

over  (the  city). 

24.  Ekur  like  (a  temple)  which  has 

been  tenderly  built  he  will 
make 


'  Read  A-AN,  i.  e.,  dm. 

•  Cf.  lag-bi  fi-(i,  ZiMMERN,  K.L,  199  I  36. 
'CI.  Lanc.  Sununan  LilHrgical  Ttxli  1 54,  16. 
MR  ii  written  5/+yU-' 

'  The  second  sign  (f  is  only  partially  made  by  the  scribe. 

•  The  analysis  of  the  text  and  the  meaning  are  difficult.    Perhaps  a  should  be  taken  with 
the  following  sign  a-yAR-ri,  an  unknown  ideogram,     mur-ri  is  here  taken  for  ri'jMii. 

'See  line  la  above. 

*  SicI     Demonstrarive  pronoun.     See  Sum.  Gr.  \  t6j. 

*  Here  we  have  the  first  occurrence  of  the  original  expression  for  kuiiu  ia  rlli;  cf.  Br.  1 1244. 
"The  epithet  refers  to  lime-Dagan. 

"Cf.  SBP.  )}o,  10. 

"  This  word  is  obscure  and  unknown. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 


257 


35.  dg-dH-bi  ki-bi  be-in-gi-dm 

26,  27.  gi-g&n-na-bi*^  ki-gi-gi-bi  ud- 
gim  kar-kar-  61' 

28.  su^-ba-Ia-iUm-tiim-mu  in-na-an' 

d&g-ga-  dm 

29.  gar^a  kir-ri  ib-  jfijf*-  dm 


dm 


30.  m*"  ib-bir-a-bi  ki-bi-iif  in-gar-ra- 

d 

31.  tu-lui  erim'-e  lu-be-in-M-a-ba 


32.  ajag-gi        el-t-       hi 

33.  uru-ajag  nam-iub-da-ni   in-na- 

an-d^g-ga-dm 

34.  C]  li-me-'' Da-gan  sib  kenag-gd- 

ni'ir' 

35 bi{?)   gA  ttl-Ur-idr-ri-da 

36.      iv-na-an-d^g-ga-dm 

37 ajag  nam-lar-ri-da-ni 

38 -ra-dm 

39 DU-ra-dm 


25.  Its  beauty  he  will  restore  to  its 

place. 

26,  27.  That  its  great  dark  chamber 

be  restored  to  its  place,  that 
it  shine  like  day 

28.  Unceasingly  he  commands. 

29.  The  ordinances  the  stranger  has 

placed  in  confusion. 

30.  The  ritual  utensils  which  have 

been  scattered  he  will  restore 
to  their  place. 

31.  The    rituals    of   hand^washing 

which  the  wicked  caused  to 
lapse  into  disuse,' 

32.  To  cause  to  be  holy  and  pure 

33.  In  the  holy  city  which  has  been 

consecrated  he  commands. 

34.  For  Ishme-Dagan  his  beloved 

shepherd 

35 to  cause  rejoicing 

36 he  commands. 

37.  The  holy whose  fate  has 

been  decreed, 

38 

39 


(About  twelve  lines  broken  away,  in  case  this  section  continued  to  the  end  of 
the  tablet.) 


'  On  gigunna,  part  of  the  stage  tower,  see  VAB.  IV 157  n.  i;     BL.  38,  14. 
'Cf.  SBP.  }i8,  J. 

•  Written  Br.  J046.    See  Br.  303s. 
*Br.  11108. 

•  mi~paTiu,  refers  primarily  to  the  rubrki  of  the  rituals,  the  ritualistic  directicHis,  but  here 
the  reference  is  clearly  to  the  utensils  employed  in  the  rituals. 

•  NE-RU. 

' /a/,  Uii— iu^mnuntit,  see  SBP.  66, 10. 

The  sign  may  be  either  di  or  ni. 


,,  Google 


258 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


I  1005 

Liturgy  of  Ishme-Dagan  (No.  2) 
Col.  II. 


3.  'En-lil  lugal  dingir-ri-e-ne-ge 

4.  sig  igi-nimr-ma  nam-en-b't  ^a-ma- 

an-slg 

5.  ditg-dHtg-ga  ''Nu-namttir-ra'ta 

6.  ka-ta-i-a  ^En-Ul-U-ta 

7.  j4n-nienim-{id-dinul-a~ar^a-ma- 

an-de 

8.  hbir-Ubir  iiMnu  ietna-sig 

9.  ''Uraio'e    d&-aiag-ga*-ni-a    sal- 

jid  ^a-ma-ni-dig 

10.  ''Nin-Hl-li  iag  Uig-Uig-ga-ni* 

1 1 .  bara-mal     ud-sud-du     g^-KU- 

MAL* 

12.  gil-lub^a-m&  haUbi  idg'gi-da 

13.  Jtwi*  'En-liUld  ka-dug'gi-mh 

14.  i-kur-ri  ud-iur^i  sag-^i-m^ 


3.  Enlil  king  of  the  gods 

4.  [n  the  South  and  North'  may 

give  lordship  over  them  unto 
me. 
;.  By  the  commands  of  Nunamnir, 

6.  By  the  utterance  of  Enlil, 

7.  May  Anu  speak  for  me  an  order 

of  confidence. 

8.  Scepters  may  he  give  unto  my 

hand. 

9.  May  UraSa  bestow  upon  me 

faithful  care  in  his  holy  throne 
room. 

10.  Ninlil  whose  heart  is  pure, 

1 1 .  She  that  in  the  far-famed  chapel 

assures  length  of  days, 

12.  She  that  renders  good  my  por- 

tion exceedingly, 

13.  She  who  unto  Enlil  spoke  assur- 

ingly  for  me  good  words, 

14.  She  who  daily  protects  Ekur  for 


'  Literally.  "  Below  and  above," 

•  Probably  a  variant  of  dH^iag.  As  the  phraie  is  written  dug-aiag-fa  might  mean  "holy 
knees,"  Urku  tttUu,  but  thai  is  not  probable.  A  parallel  passage  occun  in  tHe  liturgy  to  Dungi, 
BE.  31.  13,  8,  where  my  interpretation  is  to  be  conected.  For  di.M,  rendered  into  Semitic  by 
the  loan-word  da,  with  the  sense  "high  altar,  pedestal  of  a  statue,  altar  or  throne  room"  see 
AJSL,  33,  107. 

•Cf.  Gudea,  Cyl.  B  13.  4- 

*  This  phrase  should  have  a  meaning  similar  to  "speak  words  of  peace,"  "assure,  comfort." 
The  expression  occurs  also  in  Gudea,  Cyl.  A  7,  ;,  Nlngirsu,  son  of  Enlil  gi  ja-ra  ma-ra-iun- 
gd-d,  "will  speak  to  thee  words  of  peace." 

•*«!,  preposition— eli,  li  derived  from  kui—^mm,  "body,"  literally  "at  the  body." 

'  In  view  of  the  parallel  passages  where  kings  are  called  the  iag-ui  of  temples  and  cities  (i.  e. 

the  muklnu  or  tnukll  rlt}  it  seems  necessary  to  render  i-kur-ri  as  the  object  of  lag-u}.    See  SAK. 

i97belowc5;  BE, 19  No.  1  IV6;  PBS.  V  No.  73.    A  rendering,  "She  who  raiseth  me  up  daily 

in  Ekur"  is  possible. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — 5UMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 

15.  ki-ir  ki-gal-e'  nam  iu-^a-ma-ni- 

tat 

16,  *En-ki  en-gal  erida-iki)-ga-ge 


259 


17.  gattun    iid-ma^  sagtnd  ^a-ma- 

ni-in-uii?) 


ij.  May  render  me  my  fate  in 
Kenur  the  vast  place. 

r6.  May  Enki  the  great  lord  of 
Eridu 

17.  Sustain(?)  my  head  in  the  ritual 
chamber,  the  faithful,  the  far- 
famed. 


Reverse  I 


5.  ki'iir  gat-la  li-bi  tar-ri-ge 

6.  'En-lil-li  d-bi  ^u~mu-da-na-&g 

7.  dUg-dig-ga  a-a  ''En-lil-ld-iH 

8.  ^Itine-  ^'Da-gan  me-en  gu-mu 

i,-m-li-ri 

9.  ka-4a-i-a  lugal-mi-M  gil-iug-n? 

ie-im-ii-ag 

10.  ki-en-gi-ra  nig-si-sd  ie-ni-in-gar 

11.  Nibru-{ki)  an-gim  gH  ^e-im-mi- 

ui 

12.  i-kuTfa  nu-bi  ^u-mu-un-Ur-itr 

13.  gii(?)-iar{?)  ii-a-ba  U-be-[in-taT\ 

14.  gar^a*  ki-ta  iub-ba'bi  ki-bi  ie- 

\mu-un-gi\ 

15.  'En-lil-ld  me  ^al-kalag-{ni] 

16.  ^'Il-me-^Da-gan  me-en 

17.  'Nin-Hl-M 


5.  Of  the  great  Kenur  its  care .... 

6.  Of  Enlil  his  oracle  be  proclaimed. 

7.  Unto  the  words  of  father  Enlil — 

8.  Ishme-Dagan  am  1 — verily  my 

neck  1  will  turn. 

9.  To  the  utterance  of  my  king 

may  i  lend  my*  ears. 

10.  I  nSumer  justice  may  1  institute. 

1 1 .  Nippur  may  I  exalt  like  heaven. 

12.  Of  Ekur  its  decrees  I  will  deliver. 

13.  Of  the  plans(?)  unto  their  care 

may  1  give  heed. 

14.  The  sacred  relics  which  have 

fallen  from  their  places  may 
1  restore  to  their  places. 

15.  Of  Enlil  his  precious  decrees — 

16.  1  am  Ishme-Dagan — I  will.... 

17.  Of  Ninlil  her 1  will..  .. 


'CT.  SBP.  53,  5;  BL.  p.  158. 
'Sic!  third  person, 

*0r  read  hiUudu.  This  passage  proves  that  garia  and  biUudu  really  do  have  a  meaning, 
sanctuary,  cult  object  or  something  synonynious.  SttbiUudHin  VAB.  IV  Index.  The  meaning, 
sanctuary,  has  been  suggested  for  the  Semitic  parsu  and  this  must  be  taken  into  consideration. 


,,  Google 


!6o  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

7847 

Liturgical  Hymn  to  Innini  (No.  3  and  duplicate  No.  4) 
Col.  I 


1.  nin  me-dug-ga^  babbar  daUa-i-a 

2.  sojid     me-lam     gUr-nt  kenag 

'Vraia-a 

3.  mt-gig  ari-iui  nini?)  sir-gal-gaUa 

4.  agU'ii-di  ....  nam-en-na    tuntr 

ma 

5.  me-imm-ii  iu-sd-dig-ga 

6.  nitirtnu   me-gal-gal-la   sag-sir-ii 

ja-e  me-en 

7.  me~mu*-ila   nu    iu-^u-Hii    mvr^ 

lal 

8.  me-mu-*kin    me    gab-^u    be-tab 

9.  uiumgal-gim  kur-ra  sub  ba-e-stg 

10.  'Immer-gim  ki  iH-gi-a^  ^Ainan 

la-ba-ii-gM 

1 1 .  j-ww-ru  kur-bi-4a  i-de 

12.  sag-kd-an-ki-a  dingir-ri-bi*  me- 


1.  Oh  lady  of  the  good  decrees, 

that  risest  splendidly  like  the 
sun. 

2.  Faithful  woman,  bearing  a  sheen 

of  terrible  splendor,  beloved 

of  Urashl, 
J.  Heavenly  virgin,  queen(?)*  of 

the  great  songs, 
4.  Who  puttest  on  a  faithful  crown, 

who  hast  been  created  lit  for 

rulership, 
;.  Whose  hand  attaineth  the  seven 

decrees, 

6.  My  queen,  of  the  great  decrees 

their  directress*  art  thou. 

7.  The  decrees  thou  bearest;   the 

decrees  thou  holdest  in  thy 
hand. 
8.  The  decrees  thou  directest;  the 
decrees  thou  claspest  to  thy 
breast  (?) 
9.  Like  a  champion  thou  subduest 
the  foreign  lands. 

10.  Like  the  storm-god  in  the  place 

of  the curse  the  grain- 
goddess  thou  leavest  not. 

11.  A  whirlwind  upon  their  lands 

thou  sendest. 

12.  Oh  leader  of  heaven  and  earth 

their  divinity  thou  art. 


'  Var.  lar-ra. 

'  Var.  is  certainly  not  ni'n. 

•Forio;-j)r,  seealioASKT.96.as;  K.L.,  199,15;   iwCol.  Ill  51;  CT.a4,  15,79. 

•  Cf.  Ni.  4581  Obv.  8  in  PBS.  X  pt.  3,  where  it  is  connected  with  '-Immer.  Var.  KA-gi-a! 
'Read    IfU   f-r    R/(?).     mulen^^lllu.   liltu.  cf.   PBS.   V   15   Rev.    14.      Render   "Their 
divine  queen  Ih  u  art'7 


,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


261 


13.  ne-ne-ne-ra  kaiamrma  a-an-mal 

14.  dingiri-ir^   me-sig-g^*  nin-ur-ra- 

1$.  enim-aiag-an-na-iaenimdAg-dAg 

16.  gar(a-gal-gal4a  gar  pt  aA>a 

mu-    un-    fM 

17.  kur-gul-gul  ud-de-da  ba-e-sig 


18.  kenag  *EitrliUld  kalavi-ma  im~ 

mi-ni-ri 

19.  d-aga  'Nin-lil  ba-gub-hi  me-en 

20.  ntn-mu   ia-pa^g-ju-H  kur  ni- 

gam-gam-e 

31.  ni-mi-lam-ra*-p4-da  nam-lii-gill- 

lu 

22.  nig-me'gar  gir-hi  ii-mu-ri'gub 

23,  »«-te   me-iuP-bi    ht-ba't'rj-ti 


24.  i-lu  er-ra-fu  gM-Ia-ra-ab-Ui{?) 

25.  i-a  nir-gal-gal-la  siUba  mu-ri-du 

26.  igi-mi'ta  gar  ma-ra-ta-si-ig* 

27.  nin-mu    dtiUja    enim-enim-ni- 

digH 

28.  ud  td-ul-gim  ni-da-dA-tte 


13.  For  them  thou  didst  create  the 

Land  (of  Sumer). 

14.  That  givest  orders  unto  the  gods 

(?),  queen  that  guidest  the 
universe. 
1;.  That  utterest  command  by  the 
holy  order  of  Anu. 

16.  The  great  decisions  who  (but 

thee)  knoweth  to  teach? 

17.  Thou  that  shatterest  the  moun- 

tains, by  a  spirit  of  wrath 
thou  art  filled. 

18.  Beloved   of    Enlil,    thou    hast 

founded  the  Land. 

19.  Thou  art  she  that  hast  effected 

the  mandate  of  Ninlil. 

20.  My  lady,  at  thy  cry  the  lands 

quake. 

21.  At  the  fear  of  thy  splendor  let 

mankind 

22.  With  shouting  await  thee. 

23.  Fittingly    they    have    received 

their  terrible  decrees  from 
thee. 

24.  Thy  lamentations  and  mourn- 

ings let  them  wail  for  thee. 

25.  Unto  the  temple  the  chief  singers 

shall  walk   the    streets   for 
thee  (P  P). 

26.  From  before  the  face  of  battle 

they  hasten  unto  thee. 
37.  My  lady,  of  thy /wry  they  speak. 

28.  The  spirif  like  an  onrushing 
storm  rushed  over  them. 


'  Var.  fii.  Sic! 

*  Var.  obi. 

*  iSmimal  kiUati. 

*  Sic!     Prepositions  ra  and  da  in  the  same  phrase! 
'  Text  flrf 

*Ct.inar-fin.gar-itn  =  !>iiu,SBP.  116,3};  K.L.,  1$  II  la. 
'  In  liturgies  usuallj'  translated  by  "the  Word." 


,,  Google 


262  UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

29.  tid  ka-ra-ia  uku  im^a-ab-ra-ra  29.  The  spirit  with  a  loud  cry  anni- 

hilated the  people. 

-^o.*Immer-datu-mu-da-an-gi-gi-m  50.  By  the  storm  god  they  were 
accursed. 

31.  im-iul-im-^ul-da  im-da-kui'A-ne         3i-  By  the  storm  winds  they  were 

brought  to  woe. 

32.  glf'ja  sil  kui'ii  i-nt-  si  32.  Thy  foot  hastens  restless  in  the 

street. 

33.  balag  a-nir-da  i4u  mu-uit'da-ab-  33.  Upon  the  lyre  of  weeping  they 

hi  utter  lamentation. 

34.  nin-mu   ^A-nun-na   dingir-gat-  34.  Oh  my  lady,  the  Anunnaki,  the 

gal-tite  great  gods, 

35.  su-din-{iv.)-dal-a-gim?dttl-dimu-         35.  Like  a   flying  iudin-hnd  from 

e-ii-ba-ra-al  the  crannies  hasten  unto  thee. 

36-  igs-gir-a-ja-la''  ba-lag-gi-ei-a^  36.  When  before  thy  feet  they  run, 

37.  sag-ki  gir-a-ja  sag-nu-mu-un-ne-         37.  Unto  the  presence  (rf  thy  feet 

gd-g^  they  attain  not. 

38.  iag-ab-ba-^a  ba-a  ni-le-en-\U-en]         38,  Thine  angry   heart  who  shall 

pacify? 

39.  lag-^-h-ia  te-\en-U-en-na-dm]  39.  Thine  evilly  disposed  heart  let 

become  calm. 

40.  nin  iar-ni  Idg  nin  [..  . .  -ni- ,    , ,  ]         40.  Oh  lady,  whose  soul  is  magnani- 

mous; oh  lady  [whose is 

I 

41.  ib-ba  »u-te-en-[ie-en )         41,  Whose  wrath  isunpacified 

42.  nin-kuT-ra-dirig-ga 43.  Lady  that  stormeth  over  the 

mountains 

43.  iai*-sag  ki-ja  ba 43.  The  mountains  (?)  thy  place  (?) 

44.  ki-gal-a  44.  The  great  gale 

■a,  SBP.6.  16. 

'  For  ra.     Read  {a-la  fjr  tat-in  i 

*  Note  the  overhanging  vowel  a  denoting  a  dependent  phrase  without  a  relative  introductory 
adverb,  and  see  also  5u»t.  Gr.  page  [63,  examples  cited  bi-in-da-ra-dii-ti.  etc. 

*  The  plural  of  this  verb  has  been  indicated  by  doubling  the  root,  a  case  of  analogy,  being 
influenced  by  the  similar  plural  formation  of  nouns.  See  Sum.  Cr.  S  I34-  An  example  of  the 
same  kind  is  sag-tm-mu-nn-da-ab-gi-gd  —  i^  i-ir-ru-lu.  "they  approached  it  not,"  K.  8j)i,  6  in 
HiKMHY,  Ninrag,  p.  8, 

*Text  ni.'     Read  ub  tat-ki-ja^iiplti  pani-iil'-f). 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON— SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


265 


1 

^dSba^a  nu 

1 

Its  frost 

2 

ki  ""Hu-Ab  

2 

3 
4 
5 

ka-sir-Iai?)* 

3 

nir-do-4ti-bi ' 

4 

5 

Their  afflictions 

uru  tul  dinig-di-bi   mer-i-in-si- 

Their  city,  an  arid  habitation, 

Isi] 

the  whirlwinds  have  filled. 

6 

^al-iag-gan-bi -iii    ma-ra- 

6 

Their workmen  in 

ab-mii-[mii] 

supplicate  thee. 

7 

unt-iagin-ra   li-be-in-diig-ga* 

7 

For  the  brilliant  city  they  mourn 
in  song. 

8 

a-a  uku-^a  li-be-in-ef-a-a 

8 

The  father  thy  creator  sends 
forth  cries  of  distress  for  it.* 

9 

ka-ajag-ju  di-in-dHg-dftg  glr-^a 

9 

May  thy  holy  mouth  speak  the 

ie-ib-gi 

command  and  thy  feet  return. 

10 

t&-ab-bi-ta   iui   ge-ib-ia-an-ii-ni 

10 

From  her  midst  mayest  thou 
cast  the  cruel  one. 

11 

sat-bi   dam-a-ni-ta   Ug-ga-na-dl 

II 

Let  a  woman  with  her  husband 

an'-da-  ab-  bt 

speak  kindly. 

13 

gig'U-na-la'    na-an-ba-ni-ib-gi'gi 

12 

During  the  nights  forever  let  her 
return  unto  him. 

'3 

nig-a^ag  iag-ga-na  nam-mu-da- 

'3- 

That  which  is  pure  in  her  heart 

an-bur-ri 

may  she  disclose. 

14. 

H-gul-^i-ji-i   dumu-gal    ''  Zu-ett- 

■4- 

Fervid    intercession    unto    the 

na-di 

great  son.  Sin, 

15- 

nitt  dingir-ra  dirig-ga*  a-ba  ki-ia 

15- 

Oh   lady  surpassing  the  gods 

ba-an-tum 

who  beside  thee  brings? 

16. 

me-ii-de  nin-gai  nin-e-ne 

16. 

Establisher  of  decrees,  oh  great 
lady,  their  lady. 

'7. 

uru-aiag-ta    i-a    ama-uku-ni-ir 

17- 

Thou  that  risest  from  the  holy 

dirig-ga^ 

city,  thou  that  surpassest  his' 
child-bearing  mother, 

'  For  the  form,  see  PBS,  V  101  IV  3. 

*  If  Id  be  correct,  then  the  reading  is  in-sil-la. 
'  Cf.  nir-da-an.  K.  45,  6,  and  nir-da,  Gudea,  Cyl.  A 

*  Fori-iii-Jli(" jafdfrx. 
tfl^-i-a-ojd.     CT.  15.  II,  7;    K.  L.  ji  18.     Cf.  also  the  N.  Pr.   'Cifbai 

"The  fire-god  causes  to  come  forth." 

'  So  the  text  for  ldg-ga-4!  na-an-da-db-hi. 

'  See  above,  line  36. 

>  Fortheconstruclion  JfVif  withM,  seefil-n>--iViiVrf  —  fljonntmrafti,  Poebei.  PBS  V  ifi   (■ 

*  Rrferj  to  Sin. 


a6  wilh  18,  )  where  tiif-trim^nir-Ja 
"Cilbar-i 


y  Google 


364 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — B'ABYLONIAN   SECTION 


18.  ga/-fM  f|i-|ii/  nin  kur-kur-ra    ' 

19.  ji-gM    kalama-^u-a    sHr-aiag-^ 

ga-a-an-diii 

20.  dingir  ji-nu-a  tum^ma  ki-hi  dUg- 

-ga-bi 


21.  lag'sud-du  sal-iid  Idg-Uig-ga  me- 
lu  ga-mur^a-ab-diigi?) 


22.  mi-ib^^ag-gi  fwrnU'e-h-in-tu-ri 


23 

tn  metn  m-     -ul-nn-na  me-en 

=3 

24 

gi-ma-si-<ib  ni-gitr-ru  kelda^- 
dig 

24 

25- 

ki'iig'ga  bi'in'gar  md'e  nu-mu' 
un-ru  -ti-li 

35. 

26. 

ud~de  ba~nim  udti  da(f)-bil 

26 

37- 

gii-gig  ud-de  ba-nim  ?  -da  im-mj- 
dH 

27 

38. 

KA4dl^ii  r«-?  a-ba-ab-ium 

28 

29- 

nittda-inuT-idg-idg'mii  da-ta  ba- 
e-de-gi 

29 

3"- 

nam-mu  *  En-lil  tugal  an~ki 

30 

31- 

duit 

31 

32- 

a-da^lam   an-ra   enim'mu-na-ab 

32 

33.  nam-lugal-an-ni  sal-e  ba-ab-kdr- 


1  ntelligent  and  wise,  oh  queen  of 

the  lands. 
Oh  breath  of  life  of  thy  Land, 

1  will  recite  thy  holy  songs. 
Divinity  who  has  been  made 

agreeable  unto  the  fury  of 

battle,  whose  words  unto  their 

place  

Thou  of  the  unsearchable  heart, 

who  purgest  faithfully,  I  will 

relate  thy  decrees. 
The  holy  mi-ib  weapon  verily 

thou  causest  to  enter  upon 

(the  foe). 
"A  ruler  am  I,  a  ruler of 

heaven  am  I.'" 
The  reed  censer  I  bear  and  I 

arrange  the  ritual(P). 
At  the  parentalia  I  place  it;  and 

these  things  I  cease  not  to  do. 

By  day  I and  daily  renew 

By  night  and  day  I and  in 

. .  .am  clothed{?)* 

My of  honey I  bring. 

By  my  pious  offerings  of  baked 

cakes  thou  wilt  be  pacified. 
Something  Enlil  k>rd  of  heaven 

and  earth 
To  Anu  spoke  as  a  command  and 

verily  Heaven  is  opened. 

Now  unto  Anu  he  has  spoken 

the  command  and  thou  causest 

Heaven  to  shudder. 

The  royal  power  of  Anu  thou  a 

woman  hast  seized. 


■  Here  begins  abruptly  a  passage  spoken  by  the  goddess  herself.    This  is  n 
liturgical  texts. 

*  The  sign  is  cfA.  not  4ul. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS  265 

15204  (No.  5) 

Psalm  to  Enlil  Containing  a  Long  Intercession 
BY  THE  Mother  Goddess 

This  liturgical  psalm  in  one  melody  adds  one  more  docu- 
ment of  this  kind  to  the  classical  Sumerian  corpus  of  old  short 
musical  services  on  which  the  later  complex  liturgies  were  based.* 
The  title,  drab-u-Qu)  drabu-{^u)  mti^u  kHrra  munmdUaiu  jdt 
alminna,  arranged  in  seven  dactyls,  does  not  appear  in  the  cata- 
logue of  old  songs  given  in  the  Assyrian  list,  IV  Raw.  53  Col.  III. 
Since  the  greater  part  of  the  psalm  consists  in  an  address  of  the 
mother  goddess  to  Enlil  on  behalf  of  Nippur,  the  composition  is 
defined  as  an  adoration  of  "my  mother,"*  an  epithet  applied  to 
Innini  by  the  singers  in  most  liturgies.  The  psalm  begins  with 
twelve  lines  sung  by  the  choir  and  addressed  to  Enlil.  They 
then  in  lines  13-15  introduce  Innini  whom  they  represent  In 
discourse  before  Enlil  in  lines  16-47.  This  part  of  the  song 
service  contains  refrains  characteristic  of  public  worship.  Theo- 
logically the  text  illustrates  one  of  the  most  profound  principles 
of  Sumerian  religion,  the  sympathy  and  concern  of  the  virgin 
mother  for  mankind.*  The  great  daily  services  of  the  standard 
prayer  books  represent  her  as  a  mater  dolorosa  and  she  with 
Tammuz  shares  the  vicissitudes  of  mortal  life.  Our  text  is 
unique  and  noteworthy  for  one  salient  fact.  It  illustrates  the 
scenes  so  common  on  Babylonian  seals,  where  the  mother  goddess 
stands  in  intercession  before  the  god,  with  one  or  both  hands 
raised  in  supplication  and  the  left  foot  advanced  as  though  about 
to  set  it  on  the  paved  approach  to  the  throne  of  the  deity. 

'  For  a  discussion  of  these  early  Sumenan  single  song  services,  see  the  writer's  Babylonian 
LiJi<r(.-«.  pp.  XXXVIiff. 
■See also  line  ij. 
•  See  Tammut  and  Isbiar.  p.  ill. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


I.  arS-bu-iJu)    ard-bu-{iu)    mu-^u 
kur-ra  mu-utt-ma-al-la-H 

la-i    altne-at-na 

kur-ra    mu^un-ma-al-al'la-iii 
la-e  altne-en-mi 

5.  ^'Mu-ul'lit    iag-sud~du    e-ne-em 

lid-    da 

6.  git  kitna-aP  etu-em    di-    di* 


mu^ju  kur-ra  mu-un-ma-al-la-iii 

{a-e   al-me-en-    na 

mM-;u  kur-ra  mu-un-^ma-al-la-iu 

d&g-ga-pt   kur-ra   dm-da-ma-al- 

tai-a-ju  kur-ra  dnnia-ma-al-la- 

uru-m€-a*  an  ni-bi  nant'diib  ki 

ni-bi  nam-sig 

nibru-(ki)-a   an   «f-fci  nam-diib 

ki  ni4>i  nam-    sig 

ama  mu-gig-gi  ama  nu-bar-ra 

ama-mu  ni-mi-nt-in-gt-gi 


13 
14.  "■[ 


]~e  ga-ia-an  uri-bar' 
ra-ra* 


.  Oh  bird  arabu,  arabu^,  thou  art 
he  whose  name  is  proclaimed 
in  the  world. 


3.  Oh  Enlil,  urdfrit-bird,  thou  art 
he  whose  name  is  proclaimed 
in  the  world. 

5.  Enlil  of  unsearchable  heart,  of 

faithful  word. 

6.  He  that  bends  the  neck,  that 

speaks  the  word. 

7.  Thou  art  he  whose  name  is  pro- 

claimed in  the  world. 

8.  At    thy    name  which    is  pro- 

claimed in  the  world, 

9.  At  thy  discourse  which  is  pro- 

claimed in  the  world, 

10.  At  thy  aid  which  is  wrought  in 

the  world, 

11.  In  my  city  heaven  trembles  of 

itself,  earth  quakes  of  itself.* 

12.  In  Nippur  the  heaven  trembles 

of  itself  .earth  quakes  of  itself. 

13.  The  mother  virgin,  the  mother 

courtesan,  my  mother  began 
discourse. 

14.  She  the  divine ,  queen 

of  the  villages. 


'  The  Sumerian  ari-bu  I.UD-DU-BU)  is  rendered  into  Semitic  by  the  loan-word  atabU,  called 
ijfw  rnliu,  bird  of  the  storm,  ZA.  VI  344,  48,  In  CT.  XII  -ja  3  UD-DU  {ara)'=Kamni,  fierce, 
raging,  where  the  entry  is  followed  by  UD-DU  (jra)— ia  UD-DU-im  Ok),  hence  in  any  case  a 
bird  of  prey.  Were  it  not  for  the  reference  to  this  bird  in  the  omen  tent,  Boissier,  DA  67,  18, 
one  might  conclude  that  the  bird  is  mythical.  For  the  reading  arabU,  see  also  Reisner,  SBH. 
"04,  35. 

■  ••liaiaiti  la  kiiadi,  see  SBP.  1 10.  21,  "bend  the  neck,"  i.  e..  "giaint  favor." 

•Cf.  V  Raw.  ^ga  a. 

*Ci-dagart-mi~a  =  i>iatu^ri-ni.  RA.  XI  144,8. 

'Cf.SBP.45,  13;  79.  13:  98.  44.  "c. 

•For  this  method  of  forming  the  plural  its  Sumtrian  Grammar,  %  134.  Tor  tiru-iar  =  kaprH, 
seeMEISSNER,  SAl.  M}.  Note  also  utnuK  iirti-hir,  SBH.  31,  57  —  19,  ;6and  K.  690bv.  30.  title 
of  Nergal  as  lord  of  the  city  of  the  dead. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 

f ; ni-mi-ni-in'gi-       gi 

i6.  ku-a'ju-    di 

17 -la  ku-gar-ra^-^u-de 

18.  {''Nin-lil-da??  ga-ia-an  keHki)- 

a-gt 

19 len   mu-e-da-ab-tar-ri 


267 

1; discoursed. 

16.  When  in thou  dwellest, 

[  7.  When    in thou    makest 

thy  abode, 
18.  With  Ninlil  (?)  queen  of  KeS 

19 thou  decrees!. 


20 ge  me-ritnu^hi* 

nu-GA-e 

21.  [a-a-mu  lt^]lu-mu-4ir''   su-din-^u 

ab-ba-ge 

22.  me-TJ-mu-i^  nu-GA-e 

23.  '■Mu-ul-lil-]-e  iag-sud~da 

24.  [it-mu-un  e~ne]-em  ^i-da 

25.  \gii  ki-ma-al  e-^ne-tm  di-di 

26 ge  me-ri-mu-M  nu- 
GA-e 

27.  l*'Mu-ul-lil  ?]-e  me-ri-murlu  it"- 
GA-e 

28 ~ra  ga-dm-ii-rd 

29.  [me-ri\-mu-lli   ga-mu-ni-ib-GA 

30.  \a-a-mu\lii-lu-mu'4tr      ga-dm-ii- 

rd 

3 1 .  me-ri-mti-Ht  ga-mu-ni-ib-GA 

32.  ^Mu-ul-lil-ra   iu-mu-hi  ga-mu- 

ni-ib-GA 

33.  me-ri-mu-H  ga-mu-ni-ib-GA 


20.  "  [As  I  was ]  my  foot  1 

lifted  not."* 

21.  To  my  father,  my  benefactor,  as 

a  sudin-bird  of  the  sea,' 

22.  My  foot  1  lifted  not. 

23.  [To  Enlil  ofl  unsearchable  heart, 

24.  [Lord]  of  faithful  word, 

25.  That  bends  the  neck,  that  speaks 

the  word, 

26.  [As  I  was ]  my  foot  1 

lifted  not. 

27.  [But  unto  Enlil]  I  would  lift  my 

foot. 

28.  Unto verily  1  will  go; 

29.  My  foot  1  will  lift. 

30.  To  my  father,  my  benefactor, 

verily  !  will  go; 

31.  My  foot  I  will  lift. 

32.  Unto  Enlil  my  hand  1  will  raise; 


33- 


my  foot  I  will  lift. 


'  Cf.  Historical  and  Religious  Texts,  p.  34,  6. 

>  For  Ninlil  as  queen  or  Kei.  Me  also  Zimmern,  KL.  13  y,  SBP.  i}  note  17.  At  Ke!  she 
-was  identified  with  the  unmarried  and  earlier  deity  Ninharug. 

■  The  line  drawn  across  the  tablet  intersects  the  address  of  Inninl  and.  if  not  for  some  unknown 
musical  purpose,  must  be  regarded  as  an  error. 

*  For  the  construction,  see  Sunurian  Grammar.  J  91. 

'C<4-tiaHJ.  variant  of  |a  (/L^)=nj!fl.  The  figure  of  lifting  the  foot  and  raising  the  hand 
(line  30)  to  Enlil  refers  to  the  attitude  of  adoration  assumed  by  the  mother  goddess  as  she  stands 
before  one  of  the  gods  and  intercedes  for  mankind.  She  is  frequently  depicted  on  seals  in  this 
attitude;  see  for  example  Ward,  Seal  Cylinders  of  U'tsUrn  Asia,  joja,  304,  }o8.  etc. 

'  The  sufRxed  pronoun  mu  with  affixed  preposition  ra. 

*  Innini  is  compared  to  the  iHtfix-bird  in  SBP.  6,  t6  also. 

'For  the  optative  use  of  this  ytyntA,%ttSiuHtrian  Grammar.  {317. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


m-e  ^'Mu-ul-lil-ra  um-ma  di-til 

iu^-mu-na-da-  ab-  dUg 

a-atnu  lu4ti-mu^r  ab-ba  di-til 

ftt-mtf-na-da'ab-   dig 
gH-gu  g^si-di  iu-mu-na'dm-mar 

urU-me^  ama  dumu  dl-im-mt 

dumu  ama  di-tmtne 
nibru'(kt)-a  ama  dumu-di'im-me 

dumu  ama  di'im-me 
&f-e    sil-bi    ie-im-ii-ib-U-gi-en 

e-ne-em    'Mu-ul-lil-J4    UZ-di< 

m£i-bi 

ie-en-h-ib-U'gi'en 

'■  Mu-ul-liUra  uru-nt  U-tb  mbru- 

(ii) 

ki-bi  ga-mtt-na'ab-gi 

ni-na-Ug  ni-na-Ug  ama-mu  ni- 
na  teg 


34.  I  unto  Enlil  will  say,  "  May  the 

mother  live." 
36.  Unto  my  father,  my  benefactor, 

I  will  say, "  May  the  father 

live." 

38.  Words    which    set    aright    all 

things  1  will  say. 

39.  In  my  city  may  the  mother  hail 

her  son,  may  the  son  hail  his 
mother.* 

41.  In  Nippur  may  the  mother  hail 

her  son, 

42.  may  the  son  hail  his  mother. 

43.  To  ewe  and  her  lamb  may  he  be 

propitious. 

44.  May  the  word  of  Enlil  be  pro- 

pitious to  the  she-goat  and 
her  kid. 

46.  For  Enlil,  his  city,  brick-walled 

47.  Nippur,   unto   its  place  I  will 

restore." 

48.  She  offers  devotion,  she  offers 

devotion,  my  mother  offers 
devotion. 


2154  (No.  6) 
Lamentation  on  the  Pillage  of  Lagash  by  the  Elamites 

This  neatly  written  but  seriously  damaged  single  column 
tablet  carried  when  complete  about  fifty-five  lines.  In  style  the 
Hturgical  lamentation  has  a  striking    resemblance  to  the  lamen- 

'  Dialectic  for  di(=ia  =  jii  (by  vowel  harmony).  Note  the  form  |ii-»ui-M-flWii  with  variant 
da-mn-ra-ab-Ud,  Sumirian  Liturgical  Texts,  15;,  30  (variant  unpublished).  See  also  Sumtrian 
Grammar ,  {  jo. 

•  For  the  idea,  see  also  SBP.  391,  15-19. 

'  For  SURIM  with  value  uj  —  laint,  see  Thompson,  Reports  lo},  1 1  and  supply  H-Ht  in  ^^^ 

'  The  sign  for  fR^a  certainly  has  a  phonetic  value  ending  in  </,  note  Nikolski  No.  a&i,  where 
the  sign  is  followed  by  ^n  and  Zimmehn,  KultlitdtT,  113  111  9,  where  it  is  followed  by  dt. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  369 

tation  on  the  invasion  of  Sumer  by  the  people  of  Gutium, 
published  in  the  author's  Sumerian  Liturgical  Texts,  120-124. 
The  same  refrain,  "How  long?  oh  my  destroyed  city  and  my 
destroyed  temple,  sadly  I  wail,"distinguishes  both  compositions.' 
Other  lines  are  common  to  both  threnodies.  The  contents  are 
similar  to  the  lamentation  on  Lagash  published  in  Cuneiform  Texts 
of  the  British  Museum,  Vol.  XV  22,  of  which  Zimmern  has  pub- 
lished a  variant  VAT.  617  Rev.  II  10-42,  in  his  Sumerische 
KulUeider.  A  translation  of  the  British  Museum  text  will  be 
found  in  the  author's  Sumerian  and  Babylonian  Psalms,  p.  284, 
an  edition  which  can  now  be  improved. 

1.  a-a{  1  ■■  Father  [ 

2.  ?  dingiT[  ]  3 

3.  a  uru-guJ4a  i-\gul-la-mu  gig-ga-  3,  HowIongPohmydestroyedcity, 

hi  im-mi\  my  destroyed  temple,  sadly  [ 

wail.* 

4.  ud-ha  enim  ud-dam  bi-\ ]  4.  At  that  time  the  word  like  a 

storm 

5.  enim  ^En-lil-ld  [  ]  5.  The  word  of  Enlil 

6.  'En-lil  galu  nam-tar  [  ]  6.  Enlil  who  the  fate  of 

determined. 

7.  '-En-liUi  nim-[  ]  7.  Enlil 

8.  *' Mi-mil?  dumugu  [  \  8.  Mama  the  princely  son 


9.  ^'Nin-^mar-ikiyra'ge  gft{           ]  9.  Ninmar. 

10.  a^ag   dSg-jagin   '"md-gal-gal-h  10.  The  holy  one  who  lapis  lazuli  in 

bal-i ]  great  ships 

11.  nin  nig-ga-ia  igi-{              ]'ti-  ti.  Thequeen humiliates 


la  a  ajag  pi-el . . 


'See  lines  ),  13,  31  and  44  below  and  lines  j,  14, 11, 17  and  34  of  the  parallel  text  in  the 
volume  cited  above. 

'This  refrain  occurs  also  in  Sumerian  Lilurfiail  Tails,  131.  $;  I3Z,  14,  17;  II3,  II.  27,  )4, 
where  it  characterizes  a  lamentation  for  various  cities  of  Sumer  destroyed  by  an  invasion  from 
Gutium.  The  translation  given  above  is  preferable  to  the  interpretation  accepted  in  my  previous 
volume, 

'Title  of  Sin  in  CT.  1$,  43,  ;.  Note  also  that  dvnugu  is  a  title  of  Sin,  II  Raw.  48,  33,  and 
CT.  34.  io,  5. 


y  Google 


370  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 

12.  nin-€  KA.  ?  gim  NE-a  im-do'To?         12.  The  queen 


rj.  ki  lagai-{ki)  nim-ki  Iu-ni~a  im-         13.  ThelandofLagashheabandoned 
ma-U-itt'gi  unto  the  hand  of  Elam. 

14.  ud-bi-a  nin-e  ud-da-ni  14.  At  that  time  his  wrathful  word 

$4-nam'ga^-mu-ni-ib-dug  verily  attained  the  queen. 

15.  ^Ba-A  galu-sukal-lu-givt  ud-da-         15.  His  wrathful  word  attained  unto 

ni  id-  nam-ga-mu-ni-ib-d&g  the  divine  Bau  even  as  a 

messenger. 

16.  me-li-e-a  ud-di  lu-ni-a  int'tna-  16.  Woe  is  me,  the  spirit  of  wrath 

U-in-gi  into  her  hand  he  entrusted. 

17.  ud  uru  gul-gul-e  iu-ni-a  tm-ma-  17.  The  spiritof  wrath  that  destroys 

U-in-gi  the  city   into  her  hand   he 

entrusted. 

18.  ud  i  gul-gn\-e  iE«-«i-<i  im-ma-h-  18.  The  spirit  of  wrath  that  destroys 

in-gi  the  temple  into  her  hand  he 

entrusted. 

19.  [uru?]    '' Dumu-ji-abiu-ge-ta    ki  19.   in   the  city{?)  of  Tammuz  of 

nir-Ia-ki'ba'ge  inC-ma  ba-an-  the  sea,  the  place  of  wailing 

tef  terror  it  caused. 

20 mT-lag-{ki)  uru  nam-Ubir-         20.  The  city MJr5ii|,  city  of . .  . . 

ka  ni'kar-kar-ge  iji-ba-ab-dug  with  fire  it  con- 

sumed. 

21 uTu(?)-ni  Nind-{ki)-a  21 of    her    city    Nina    it 

kur-ri  ba-ab-gar*  seized  away  to  the  mountains. 

22.  [Si]rat*-{ki)   ki-dUr  kenag-ga-ni  22.  Sirar  her  beloved  habitation  an 

gul-gdl-e  ba-ab-tub  evil  one  has  overthrown. 

23.  [a  uru]-gul-la  i-gul-la-mu  gig-ga-         23.  How  long?  my  destroyed  city, 

bi*  im-me  my  destroyed  temple,  sadly  1 

wail. 

24.  [gi'pirY  aiag  nam-en-na-ba  Im-  24.  Of  the  holy  "Dark  Chamber" 

ba-e-li-ial  the  priestly  rites  are  suspended. 

■  For  niim;ii  as  an  emphatic  adverb,  see  Journal  of  the  Society  of  Oriintal  Rtsearcb,  I  lo,  Met- 
ropoiiun  Syllabar,  Obv.  I  ri-i;.     Variant  nanga,  Sumerian  Lilurgical  Ttxis,  |8S,  1,4  and  y 

•The  scribe  has  written  im  twice, 

•  Cf.  SBP.  4.  6. 

•gar  is  employed  as  a  variant  of  tar,  see5«m.Cr,  233.  Forfar  in  this  sense,  note  ;iir  —  !didfii, 
naidjuin  thesyllabars.  See  also  SBP.  [98,  14  and  note  15.  The  same  sense  of  gar  will  be  found 
in  Cudea,  Cyl.  A  6,  16;  7,  [4;  St.  B  9,  16;  Cyl.  A  ii.  15. 

>  The  third  sign  of  Ihis  ideogram  is  clearly  UNU  not  NINJ  on  the  tablet.  For  the  ideogram 
seeSBP.  384,  6. 

'  For  the  adverbial  force  of  bi  see  Shim.  Gr.  {  71. 

'  Restored  from  Sumerian  LiUufical  Ttxis,  U3  31,  and  below  line  4}. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN    U-.NGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


271 


25.  [«i]-ii  gi-pir-ta  ba-da-an-kar  ku 
erim-e  ba-ab-KA{duY 


25.  Its  high  priest  from  the  "Dark 
Chamber"  has  been  taken 
and  unto  the  land  of  the  foe 
has  gone. 


26. 

KU-si-na  'Namar-ka  da- 

dugud  ba-li'in-du 

26. 

27- 

gan  kaskal-gid  ^  Nannar- 

ka  Hir-dupid 

27 

28. 

^r-ra-iint  ib-ri  ba- 

28, 

29. 

gim  ib-ri  ba-an-de 

i-im-gui-gul-lu-ne* 

29 

they  destroyed. 

TO. 

aiai-ia-biim-ii-ir- 

30. 

Of  the Its  holy they 

lt-ri-*fnt -e-ne 

shattered  and 

11. 

[a  uru-gul-]la  t-gtd-la-mt  iii-ga- 

Il- 

How long?  oh  my  destroyed  city 

bi  im-me 

and  my  destroyed  temple, 
sadly  1  wail. 

12. 

Igi-pUr]  a^ag  nam-m-ma-ba  {«- 

ls- 

Of  the  holy  -'Dark  Chamber" 

b<i-t-U-hl 

the  priestly  ritesaie suspended. 

n. 

ien]-bi  gi-p&r-ta  ba-da-an-kar  ki- 

33. 

Its  high  priest  from  the  "  Dark 

erim-e  bo-  ab-  du 

Chamber"  has  been  taken 
and  unto  the  land  of  the  foe 
has  gone. 

34- 

gid-da-bi[       ]a-nir 

ba-a»-da-di 

34- 

3S- 

a-a  U-bt-ib-gil 

3S. 

36. 

K/t  tb-bi  ba-ra-m- 

Udf 

36. 

37- 

a a-Ti-a-e 

37. 

has  bound 

ba-da-aly4til 

with  him{?) 

38- 

kalit-trtm-eba'an-? 

38. 

The..  ..of  the the  foe  has 

39- 

-daiJyab-ag 

39. 

40. 

I -sug-ga  ba-an-du 

40. 

>  KA  with  value  iwaWcu  occurs  here  for  the  first  time.     Variant  has  du  (lini 
It  supplies  two  more  signs  and  makes  possible  a  better  translation, 
*  Cf.  Babylonian  Lilurgui,  No.  78.  3. 
•Cf.  PBS.  XII  No.60bv.  n, 
<  Identification  uncertain. 


,,  Google 


27a 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


41 .  ki LU  Or^i  tur-dugud- 

gim  ba-gul 

43.  diHgir  Nin  [...]ttul[ ]  glr 

kiir  ba-ra-an-ku 

43.  ''Nin4i-ga-ge  im na  er- 

44.  a  urungul-la  t-gul-latnu  gig'ga-bi 


45-  gi-p^T-ajag    7tam-en-na-ha*    Im- 

ba-e-JA'llali 

46,  en-bi  gi-p&T-ia  ba-[da-an'kar  ki- 

erim-e  ba-ab-K/Udu)] 


47.  'Nin-a-ju-ge 

48.  '■Nin-iar-sag 

49.  tu~{iu)-gim 

;o.  a  uru-guNa  t-guUla-mu  gig-ga- 

hi  imtne 


41 like  a  ruined  cattle 

stall  has  been  destroyed. 

43.  As  for  the  goddess  Nin 

her.... the  foe  has  set  his 
foot.' 

43.  Ninliga weeps  bitterly. 

44.  How  long?  oh  my  destroyed  city 

and  my  destroyed  temple, 
sadly  I  wail. 

45.  Of  the  holy  "Dark  Chamber" 

the  priestly  rites  are  suspended. 

46.  Its  high  priest  from  the  "  Dark 

Chamber"  has  been  taken 
and  unto  the  land  of  the  foe 
has  gone. 

47.  Ninazu' 

48.  Ninharsag 

49.  Like  a  dove 

50.  How  long?  oh  my  destroyed  city 

and  my  destroyed  temple, 
sadly  I  wail. 


13859  (Poebel  No.  26) 

Lamentation  to  Innini  on  the  Sorrows  of  Erech 

This  well  preserved  single  column  tablet  is  published  by 
Poebel  in  PBS.  V  26.  The  composition  reflects  the  standard 
theological  ideas  found  in  the  canonical  psalms  and  liturgies. 
The  mother  goddess  Innini  is  represented  as  a  divine  mother 
wailing  for  the  misery  of  her  city  and  her  people.    The  calamity 

■The  line  is  parallel  to  PBS.  X  112,  i}. 

'  tiam-en-na^entUu,  priesthood. 

'  A  title  of  Nergal. 

<  About  four  lines  are  broken  away  to  the  end  of  the  tablet. 


b:.  Goo_<^le 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  273 

consists  in  the  pillage  of  the  city  and  its  holy  places  by  a  foreign 
invader,  who  is  repeatedly  compared  to  an  ox.  Like  the  ordinary 
psalms  of  public  service  the  singers  abruptly  introduce  the 
goddess  speaking  in  the  first  person  as  in  lines  16;  18-20;  33-4. 
But  the  lamentation  does  not  have  refrains  and  at  the  end  the 
style  approaches  nearly  that  of  a  prayer.  The  tablet  also  bears 
no  liturgical  note  at  the  end.  For  these  reasons  and  because  of 
the  general  impression  which  the  lines  leave  with  the  present 
interpreter,  he  classifies  this  text  as  the  product  of  a  scholastic 
liturgist  of  the  Ur  or  Isin  period  whose  work  was  not  incorporated 
into  the  corpus  of  the  official  breviary. 

Obverse 

1 .  xabar  aga-Xpt?]  imrgar-giir-ri  1 .  Oh  pure  one  thy(?)  crown  over- 

awes. 

2.  til-igi-da'-{u im-bi-bi-ri  2.  Thy  proceeding  arrow  scatters 

the 

i.  ittP-guriig  suiuT-sQ-lal  {ga)-da . .  3.  Meal   of   the bean   to   the 

-k&T beared  skate-fish  thou  givest 

to  eat. 
4-  tg  i^  iig  eg-eg  ia  sA-Ium-md-gim  4.  She  that  gives  fish  to  the  stream, 

im-bul-l  1  in  the  streams  fish  (as  nume- 

rous) as  dales  she  causes  to 
dart  about. 

5.  gud-dam  ra  e-sir  u»ug'(ki)-ga-ge  5.  Rushing  like  an  ox  in  the  street 

idr-dm  mu-na-ab  (?)- wf  of  Erech  like  a  multitude(?) 

he  followed' 

6.  i&T-ra  gil-KU-A*  ma-na-an-^&r-  6.  Multitudinously  in  the  habita- 

ru^e-ei  tions  they  dwelled. 

■  r;tVd  occurs  aiso  in  the  title  or  Sin,  igi-da-gdl,  Zimmern,  KL.,  No.  i  Obv.  1  )  and  6.  The 
most  natural  interpretation  is  to  regard  da  as  a  variant  of  du,  hence  "to  go  before." 

■  Written  lif.  iu-Ui  h  »  kind  of  plant,  on  a  tablet  of  ihe  Tetlo  Collection  in  Constantinople, 
M[0,7o86.  For  the  meal  of  the /M-H/ see  also  CT.  X  20,  Iljjand  Reisner,  TemfHevrkunden. 
138C0LIII. 

■  Restored  from  line  14.    Here  begins  the  rehearsalof  the  woesof  Erech, 
*  Cf.  also  CT.  I ;,  19  Rev.  2  where  a  place  word  is  also  expected. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


.  iattant'O-ni  lugal  gab-gdl'  ki-gub- 
bu-ne  ha-ra-i 

.  ugnim~e  igi~im-  ma-  an-  sig 
.  nar't   li-du-a    iu-i-nt-in-gi    fifr" 
iu-na  be-in-iub 

ni*-tiag-a-ju  ni-nag-a-ju 

j'  nu-e-nag  amal-iu  um-mi-ni- 

nag 

ni-nag-a-ju  ni-nag-a-fu 

kai  nu-€-nag  iii*-(u  um-mu-ni- 

nag 

gud-dam  e'  e-sir  unug-{ki)-ga-ge 

idr-dm  ma-ra-^mi-ii-ui 

15.  iar-ra-dm  gii-KU-y4  ma-ra-dir- 

16.  min*  a-na-ag-en  sal-e  m&-a  ma- 

an-d&g-ga  sal-un-ne*  min-ne- 
en 

17.  gud-dam  e  ib-tagta  be-ittfa  ni- 

jm'"  e-fU'ib^ui 

18.  iar-ur  d  natn-ur-sag-gd-mu  Im- 


7.  Her   precentor,*   the  defender 

king,  whither  they  go,  went 
up. 

8.  The  hosts  of  peoples  she  beholds. 

9.  The  singer  refuses  to  chant  and 

from  his  hand  has  thrown  the 
drum. 

10.  Thou  drinkest  not;  thou  drink- 

est  not. 

1 1 .  Water  thou  drinkest  not,  but 

thy  sheepfolds  drink. 

12.  Thoudrinkestnot;  thoudrinkest 

not. 

13.  Beer  thou  drinkest  not,  but  thy 

prot^g^s  drink. 

14.  Like  an  ox  going  forth  in  the 

streets  of  Erech  like  a  multi- 
tude(?)  he  pursues  thee. 

15.  In  multitudes  they  have  taken 

up  their  abodes  in  the  habita- 
tions. 

16.  As  for  me  what  shall  1  do?     1 

who  have  bestowed  care. 
A  sacred  devotee  1  am. 

i  7.  Coming  forth  like  an  ox,  hasten- 
ing in  destructive  fury  he  came ; 
even  thee  thyself  he  pursued. 

18.  The  iar-ur  weapon,  arm  of  my 
heroic  power  1  have  takert 
not  in  my  hand. 


'  Cf.  Gudea,  St.  B  9,  37. 

*  Semitic  laltamma  a  title  employed  in  later  times  apparently  in  a  secular  sense.  Originally 
It  has  a  sacred  meaning  and  probably  denoted  a  musical  director  who  was  also  a  priest.  The 
application  of  a  priestly  title  to  the  king  is  in  accord  with  his  royal  prerogatives. 

•The  sign  is  Br.  8899. 

•Forni-fiH,  seeSBP.  liS.  n.  ni^ui-i-nti-liui-u;  SBH.  70,  j- t)i,  48.     Readii? 

'Text  C^R! 

*  B/ID^kidinu,  iiastht  vaJut  u};  cf.  ul-sa-kudditiu,  Br.  ;o6t. 

'  I  is  here  interpreted  as  a  phonetic  variant  of  UD-DU.     Cf.  also  t-dam  in  SEP.  1 18,  J9. 
'Thisisihefirst  example  of  this  form  employed  as  subject. 
•The  text  is  difficult.    fJN  is  certain  but  the  sign  5^  t  is  not  clear  on  the  tablet. 
'*rtxtSU. 


b:,Goo^^lc 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


275 


19.  i  jallab-m^  a-gil-iu'-bi  dal-4a  mi- 

20.  gii-dal  i-an-na  pa-ba  mt-ni-in- 

kud 

21.  gud'dam  sil-iif  im-ma-na-ra-i 

22.  gud-4am  e  e-sir  umi-(ki)-ga-ge 

idr-ra  mu-ni-in-ga{ 

23.  idr-ra  gii-KV-A-a-ma  mu-ni-in- 

dig 

24.  gii-ig    kd-gal-la    im-ma-an-gUr' 

25.  O'tu^na-ka  imtna-an-i 

26.  iuiPES^dumuiu-PES  'Innini- 

S« 

37.  ien-urudu     mu'tia-iin-har-ri-ia- 

dug* 

38.  pid-dam  ra         im-ma-an-ra-ai 

29.  gud-dam  e  er-imr^na-aTi-iub''  sig- 
sig-ni-mi-maP 


19.  Of  my  temple  in  Hallab  its  treas- 

ures he  has  hidden  far  away. 

20.  Of  the  tallu*  of  Eanna  its  PA 

he  broke  off. 

21.  Like  an  ox  he  came  up  against 

thee  on  the  highways. 

22.  Like  an  ox  going  forth  in  the 

streets  of  Erech  he  slaughtered 
multitudes{?). 

23.  Multitudes  in  their  habitations 

he  caused  to  die. 

24.  The  doors  of  the  city  gate  he 

shattered. 
2^.  Her  defender  he  caused  to  go 
forth, 

26.  The  fisherman,  the  son  fisher- 

man of  [nnini. 

27.  The  copper  vessels  he  scattered. 

28.  Hastening  like  an  ox  he  has 

wrought  demolition. 

29.  Coming  forth  like  an  ox  tears  he 

has  caused  to  fall  and  misery 
he  caused  to  be. 


'  Phonetic  variant  of  iil-ia—iukutlu.  The  prefix  a  is  difficult  and  probably  the  noun  lOg- 
ment,  see  Sum.  Gr.  S  148.    The  vowel  a  seems  to  possess  anottier  sense  in  SBP,  384,  1. 

'<f"f/W.  confine.  RA.  9,  77  I,  10;  aoK  alio  i-a-dni  (i  =  itui  bUi  pibi,  K.  41  Col,  II  13, 

'  Part  of  the  door;  see  VAB,  IV  Inden. 

'Variant  0I ii-tai  =  rliu.  The  final  ka  is  for  the  emphatic  gt  in  the  status  obltquus  (go). 
This  emphatic  particle  is  here  attached  to  the  abject  which  is  not  a  construct  fonnation,  but  the 
choice  of  ka  lor  ge  is  probably  influenced  by  the  principle  of  employing  the  oblique  case  of  the 
construct  when  the  noun  in  question  is  in  the  accusative:  see5um.  <7r.  1 1);.  "Defender"  refers 
to  Tammuz. 

•  The  same  title  in  PBS,  V  a  Obv.  II  33,  'Dumu-ji  Su-PES.  Poebel  interpreted  this  as  a 
variant  of  Ju-ia  =  ba'iru,  fisherman,  and  his  suggestion  is  probably  correct.  We  have,  however, 
to  consider  the  possibility  of  a  confusion  with  kam  =  ukliu!u,  the  afflicted.  SAI.  joSi. 

'The  rise  of  the  semi-vowel  I  between  the  vowels  a->i  occurs  under  similar  circumstances  in 
igi-ii-Hi-ib-ila-ia-d&f,  Radau,  MisuUaneout  Ttxts,  No.  4,  ;,  See  also  Sum.  Gr.  $  38,  3.  The 
form  above  arose  from  biir-ri-<i-a-(fiij.  The  prefixed  element  ifiif  falls  under  £  IJ3  of  the  Grammar. 
har^iapa^u  is  a  variant  par,  to  spread  out,  scatter, 

*  lub,  to  let  fall,  hence  tabaku,  to  pour  out.  Heretofore  this  meaning  of  hib  was  known  only 
from  t\iefannsal-li>-Ut-bc=iUiiitatbiik,SBH.  No,  63,1$,  and  forms  cited  by  Meissher,  SAI.  834J. 
See  also  ia<liib,  ibid,,  8)34  and  al-SA-id-bt,  MVAC.  1913  pt.  3  p.  49,  16. 

'The  same  passage  occurs  in  Ni,  t38s6ll  13.    ilg-slt=latummtitu,  variant  of  ilg'slg. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


276 

30.  'Innini  jig^-mu  sum-nuz-ab 

31.  gud  kuT-ra  ga-mu-ra-ab-sum  IHt- 

tu  ga-mu-ra-ab-lu* 

33.  udu     kur-ra     gcmu-ra-ab-sum 
anuii-ju  gainu-Ta-ab-lu 

33.  ajag  ''  Innini-ge  mu-na-ni-ib-gi- 

si' 

34.  a-iag  ^allab-{ki)-a  dUr-gar  be-e- 

gar-ra  e-ku*  ni-nad-ba 

35.  ama-ba^     g'i^i^)     ^a-ra-ab-tdg-e 

balag-al'  ^u-ntu-ra-ab-bi 

36.  ^Innini  nam-uT'sag-{iuY  ga-Am- 

dUg 
37-  jag-saUju  dug-ga-im 


30.  Oh  Inninj,  grant  me  favor. 

31.  Oxen  of  the  mountains  I  will 

give  thee;  thy  stables  I  will 
enrich  for  thee. 

32.  Sheep  of  the  mountains  I  will 

give  thee;    thy  sheepfolds  I 
will  enrich  for  thee. 

33.  Holy  Innini  replied: — 

34.  "In  the  plains  of  Hallab  thou 

shalt  make  thy  abode  where 
the  people  repose." 

35.  May  their  hosts  alle«di?)  thee 

and  proclaim  to  thee  on  lyre 
and  harp(?) 

36.  Oh  Innini,  I  will  rehearse  thy 

valor. 

37.  It  is  good  to  sing  thy  praise. 


8097  (No.  7) 
Liturgical  Hymn  to  Sin 

This  liturgical  composition  consists  of  two  melodies  each 
designated  by  the  rubric  sagarram,  "It  is  a  sagar."  The  entire 
service  is  sung  to  the  tigii,  a  kind  of  flute.  In  the  first  melody 
of  fifteen  lines  the  choir  chant  the  glory  of  the  moon  god  and 
his  city  Ur.  The  second  melody  of  twenty-four  lines  is  appa- 
rently an  address  of  the  earth  god  Enlil  to  his  son  the  moon  god. 
This  melody  must  remain  obscure  as  long  as  the  recurring 
liturgical  phrase  db-mu-ba-ii-in-dih  is  unexplained. 

'  fi(  is  probably  phonetic  for  Ug=magirH,  see  Sum.  Gr.  258,  fif'. 
'  iu<lum^ia'i{i,  dim,  passim. 
■Cf.  also  PBS.  V33  1  ly.  II  13  mH-fut-ni-ift-jf-ff. 
*ekH<uiti  by  dissimilation  of  vowels.    See  also  Reisneh,  SBH.  77,  17. 
'For  ama^iimmalu,  urnnmiiiilii,  see  Sum.  Gr.  3ta,  ama*  and  Weidner,  Hatidbucb  der 
Babylonischtn  /istronomic,  p.  86, 4. 

•  See,  for  the  musical  inslrument  AL,  Sunurian  Liturgical  Texts,  Index,  p.  aai. 
■  Text  omits  pi,  which  is  not  on  the  tablet. 


,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


j-ni  ti  uri-ki  mu-i&  ba- 
an-sd 

6.  en  ud-sud-dit-ge  uru-ni-la 

7.  *Zu-en-«  kidur'  ba-ni-m-gar 
uri-ki  UTU  iag-gi-pad~da-na 

i  gud-gim  ub-jm-nu 

lugal^tnu  sd-rin-na-^i* 

ki-mai  ki-kal-kal  le-en-^a-nam- 
ma-dm 
*'Zu-en-e  uru  kenag-gdtti 

13,  ei  uri-(ki)  me-a^ag-ajag-ga  .... 

14.  lugal-tnu  bara 

]-e  nin  (        ]  gar-ra 

16.  ia-    \gaT-]    ra-    dm^ 

e*  ^Mannar  \      db      -]  jm  me-a 

mu-'u-lu  en  ''Ai-im-ur 

uru  igi-ild  H  iag  \-gdl  ul-  \  W-a- 

ni-mi 


20.  iuruppak-gim   lnam-^aT-]-gud-e* 

gdl-la-bj 

21.  . .  .-e db-mu-ba-h-in-dib 

22.  [e  dumu]  ^En-lil-ld  kalama  me-a 

mur'ur-lu  en  *'Al-\m-uT 


5.  His  city{?)  the  abode  of  Ur  as  a 

name  he  named. 

6.  As  lord  unto  eternal  days  in  his 

city, 

7.  The  god  Sin  he'  caused  to  abide. 

8.  In  Ur  the  city  which  his  heart 

has  chosen 

9.  The  temple  like  a  strong  bull 

calls  unto  the  regions{?)' 

10.  Of  my  king,  may  his  net(?) 

1 1 .  Be  upon  tomb  and  ruins. 

12.  Of  Sin,  may  his  beloved  city, 

13.  The    dwelling-place    Ur,    with 

holy  decrees  a  city 

14.  Of  my  king  may  his  chapel .... 

'5-     ■■; 

16.  It  is  a  iagar  melody. 

17.  Hail!  Nannar,  of  the  flocks(?) 

thou  art  ruler,  lord  ASimur. 

19.  In  my  city  of  the  lifting  of  the 

eyes,  the  home  of  his  own 
abode,  which  is  his  fulness  of 
luxury, 

20.  Whose  design  is  like  ^unippak, 

21 1  have  caused  him  to 

be  a  shepherd{?) 
22.  [Hail!  son]  of  Enlil,  in  the  Land 

he  is  ruler,  lord  ASimur. 


o  KU-KI-gar-m-bi' 
is  glotilied,"  suggests  itself.     Cf.  SBH.  9}, 


alShi-lu. 


'  Written  KU-Ki.    Cf.  also  CT.  16,  44,  E 

'  Enlil, 

*  A  reading  iT-im-nie.  "i 

*Cf,  TSA.  )i  Obv.  II. 

•SeePBS.  Vol.  XII  la. 

'Cf.  SBP.  295,  17. 

'Mi-ii  — frwiafK,  "the  lusty  man,"  Poebel,  PBS.  V  J36  V  13,  with  which  compare  n.  pra. 
ifubhutu.  yubhtfUt,  In  Holma,  "Personal  Names  oF  the  Form /a  ul,"  p.  50.  Note  also  ul-h'si™ 
l&tatum,  PBS.  V  ibid.  1.  11,    The  hymn  to  Sin,  5BP.  396,  contains  in  line  14  the  same  phrase. 

'  Tent  not  entirely  certain.  IF  correctly  read  the  signs  yMR-GUD  =  htbaUu  must  be  read  in 
SBP.  48,  4i  after  the  variant  SBH.  ),  10. 


y  Google 


378 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


24.  [uruigi-]  iUiii-iai-iMul-[ti]-a-Hi 
-mi 


24.  Intomy  city  of  the  lifting  of  the 

eyes,  the  home  of  his  own 

abode,  which  is  his  fulness  of 

luxury, 

25.  [iuruppak]'gim   ntim-^aT-gud-[e]         35.  Whose  design  is  like  Suruppak, 

gdl-la-bi 


Reverse 


.[ 


^b-mu-ba-]  ii-in-dib 


2.  [dumti-sag     *En-lil-l4     kalama 
me-a\  nm-'u-lu  en  ^AJ-im-iir 

4.  [ud-\-dug-ga  [ki-gar-ra  mu-iit  ga\ 

'sd-a 

5.  *A'i-im-[ur      tag]-gi'Pad-da-mu 

6.  i^mud-[htr-ra-muy  db-tnu^a'ii- 

in-dib 

7.  dumu-sag^Efirlil-ldialamame-a 

mu-'u-lu 

8.  ud-dug'ga^-ki'gar-ra  mu-[l&]  ga- 

sd-a 

9.  ^AlAtH'iir  me-en  ki  \lag\-gi-pad' 

da-mu 

10.  i-mud'huT-ra-miu    6b-[mu-hayii' 

in-    dib 

11—12.  lugal  tur-a^ag-ga  &b-ju  mt-a 

mu-'u-lu   iuUpa   munsub-nun-^na 


13.  'iag-t&m-ma   bara   ia   mu'un-du 
ei-e  uri-{ki)-mu'l'iii] 


1 .  [ ]  1  have  caused  him 

to  be  a  shepherd(P) 

2,  [First  son  of  Enlil,  in  the  Land 

he  is)  ruler,  lord  ASimur, 

4.  ["He  that  institutes  battle"     ] 

as  a  name  I  name. 

5.  Aiimur  the whom  my 

heart  has  chosen, 

6.  In  Emudkurramu  I  caused  tobe 

a  shepherd(?). 

7.  First  son  of  Enlil,  in  the  Land 

he  is  ruler. 

8.  "He  that  institutes  battle"  as 

a  name  I  name. 

9.  AJimur  thou  art;    where  my 

heart  has  chosen, 
10.  in  Emudkurramu  1  have  caused 

thee  to  be  a  shepherd(?). 
11-12.  Lord  of  the  clean  sheepfolds, 

ruler  of  the  flocks  is  he,  the 

glorious(?)  hero,  far  famed 

shepherd, 
[}.  In  the  meadow  a  sanctuary  i 

have  built;   in  the  abode  of 

my  city  Ur, 


'  Restored  from  line  10,  Theonly  previousoccurrenceorthis  name  is  in  Smith's  MiMcUiiiifOiM 
Ttxts.  1 1,  I  which  has  RI  not  MU.  The  end  of  the  name  is  broken  in  BL.  No.  37.  Perhaps 
Smith  copied  the  sign  wrongly. 

'  Pronounced  udugga^faltK, 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


279 


14.  i-idg-nam-sar    km    Dilmun-na 

nam 

15.  i'gi-a^ag-bi-a  db  mu-ba'U-in-dib 


16.  dumu-sag^En-tiUUkalamame-a 
mu-'u-lu  iul-pa  munsub  nun- 
na 

18.  iag-titm-ma    bara    ia-mu-un-du 

iUe  UTt-ki-mu-iii 

19.  i^idgtiam-sar    kur    Dilmun-na 

nam 

20.  i-gi-aiag-bi-a  db-mu-ba-H-in-dib 


21.  sa-gar-        ra-        dm 

22,  nar-balag^    ^  Zu-en-na 


14.  In  the  temple  Sagnamsar*  which 

is  in  the  mount  of  Dilmun, 

1 5.  In  the  temple  of  the  holy  stylus 

a  shepherd  I  caused  him  to 
be{?) 

16.  First  son  of  Enlil,  in  the  Land 

he  is  ruler,  glorious(?)  hero, 
far  famed  shepherd. 

18.  In  the  meadow  a  sanctuary  I 

built;    in  the  abode  of  my 
city  Ur, 

19.  In  the  temple  Sagnamsar  which 

is  in  the  mount  of  Dilmun, 

20.  In  the  temple  of  the  holy  stylus 

a  shepherd  I  have  caused  him 
to  beC?) 

21.  It  is  a  sagar  melody. 

22.  Song  on  the  Hute  to  Sin. 


7080  (No.  1 1) 

Lamentation  on  the  Destruction  of  Ur 

The  fragment  Ni.  7080  carries  the  right  half  of  one  of  the 
largest  literary  tablets  in  the  Museum.  Broken  evenly  at  the 
center  from  top  to  bottom  the  right  half  of  this  tablet  preserves 
part  of  Col.  1 1 1  and  all  of  Cols.  IV,  V  of  the  obverse.  The  reverse 
correspondingly  contains  Cols.  1,11  and  half  of  Col.  III.  Like 
so  many  similar  liturgical  compositions  of  the  period  of  Ur  this 
lamentation  is  divided  into  a  series  of  kiSubs  or  songs,  here  of 
unusually  great  length.     The  third  song  ends  at  Obv.  Ill  38; 


rans  mudammi^  mmarrl,  "Temple  of  the  benefaclor  of  writ- 
intioned,  a  mythical  stylus  symbolic  of  the  god  of  wisdom. 


*  The  name  as  transliterated 
ing."  In  hne  i;  its  holy  reed  is 
Enki,  according  to  SAK.  6  h. 

'HaT-balai^(igii,ay\ndo{(\ult.  Here  the  word  indicates  that  In  <he  musical  accompaniment 
this  instrument  was  employed.  It  probably  denotes  a  specific  kind  of  melody.  Three  other 
musical  instruments  have  given  their  names  to  classes  of  melodies,  the  erUmma,  balag  and  me-il, 
see  SBP.  page  IX,  and  BL.  page  XXXVlll. 


y  Google 


28o  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

its  first  line  stood  in  Obv.  II,  which  has  been  lost.  The  fourth 
song  began  at  Obv.  Ill  42  and  ends  at  Obv.  IV  23,  containing 
thirty-four  lines.  The  fifth  song  begins  at  Obv.  IV  27  and  ends 
at  Obv.  V  7,  containing  forty-seven  lines.  In  the  following  pages 
will  be  found  a  translation  of  twenty-three  lines  of  the  end  of  the 
fourth  song  which  describes  the  wrathful  word  of  the  gods  Anu 
and  Enlil.  The  fifth  song,  a  remarkable  ode  to  the  wrathful 
word  of  Enlil,  has  been  translated  so  far  as  the  text  permits. 

The  sixth  song  begins  at  Obv.  V  1 1 ,  and  probably  terminated 
in  the  broken  passage  at  the  top  of  Rev.  I.  Its  length  was  also 
unusual,  having  at  least  forty-five  lines.  This  song  was  edited 
on  a  small  tablet  Ni.  4584  on  which  the  beginning  and  the  end 
of  the  section  are  preserved.  It  has  been  published  as  No.  10 
in  Sumerian  Liturgical  Texts,  Vol.  X  of  the  Publications  of  the 
Babylonian  Section.  Only  a  few  lines  at  the  commencement  of 
this  song  have  been  translated  here.  From  this  point  onward 
the  language  of  the  liturgy  presents  such  difficulty  that  the 
writer  has  been  unable  to  offer  a  translation. 

Section  seven  probably  ended  at  the  top  of  Rev.  II  and 
refers  throughout  to  the  mother  goddess  who  weeps  over  the 
ruins  of  Ur.  The  eighth  song  probably  began  at  the  top  of 
Rev.  II  and  ended  perhaps  at  the  top  of  Rev.  III.  It  is  another 
doleful  ode  to  the  weeping  mother  and  many  of  its  lines  are 
clear  and  translatable.  The  entire  song  is  marked  by  sorrowful 
refrains:  me-li-e-a  uru-mu  nu-me-a,  Oh  woe  is  me,  my  city  is 
no  more.'  a-uru-mu  im-me.  How  long?  oh  my  city  I  cry.^ 
me-li-e-a  uru-ta  e-a-mkn,  Oh  woe  is  me,  from  the  city  I  depart.' 
dingir  ga-Sa-an-gal-men  i-ta  i-a-min,  Great  divine  queen  am  I, 

'Rev.  11  23- 
'  Rev,  II  19. 
»  Rev.  1 1  ag. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES    AND    PSALMS  20l 

from  the  temple  I  depart.'  er-gig  ni-Ul-USi  She  weeps 
bitterly.^ 

Only  the  ends  of  lines  of  a  large  part  of  the  ninth  song  are 
preserved  in  Rev.  111.  The  tenth  song  probably  occupied  most 
of  the  space  in  Rev.  IV.  Speculation  concerning  the  number  of 
songs  in  the  entire  liturgy  is  limited  to  the  number  of  about  i  e-i  3. 
The  liturgy  was,  therefore,  extremely  long,  attaining  to  a  content 
of  about  500  lines.  We  know  from  the  single  tablet  variant  of  the 
sixth  song  that  another  edition  of  this  series  existed  in  which 
small  tablets  carried  each  a  single  kiluh.  A  similar  condition  of 
editorial  redaction  is  revealed  by  Zimmern,  KL.  200,  a  small 
tablet  which  contains  the  twelfth  song  of  a  liturgy  to  the  deified 
king  of  Isin,  I§me-Dagan. 

The  historical  event  referred  to  in  this  liturgy  is  undoubtedly 
the  destruction  of  Ur  in  the  time  of  I  bi-Sin,  last  of  the  kings  of  the 
Ur  dynasty.  This  calamity  left  many  traces  in  the  temple  songs 
of  Sumer,  and  the  Sumerian  prayer  books  of  Nippur  contain 
other  lamentations  on  the  fall  of  Ur,  written  perhaps  during  the 
Isin  period.  The  writer  has  already  published  a  single  column 
tablet  which  rehearses  the  same  catastrophe,  mentioning  Ibi-Sin 
himself  and  naming  the  Elamites  as  his  captors.' 


Obverse  IV 

1.  an-nie-ne-em'biba-ra-mtt-un-'guT  1.  Anu  may  prevent  his  word. 

2.  ^Mu-uUlil-e  ni'-ldg  ie-dm-bi  2.  Enlil  may  order  kindness. 

3.  iag-mu  ba-ra-be-in~Ud~di  3.  And  may  my  heart  be  at  peace 

from  sorrow. 

'Rev.  II  30. 

■  Rev.  II  37:41.    Cf.  tr-gig  mu-im-UJ-m.  Zimmern,  KL.  3«  II  i  I. 

'  See  Hiilorical  and  Religious  Texts  5-8. 

•bi"(>bi. 


,,  Google 


282 

4.  [ 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


-]5u-t«f  arad-na  sag  Ai-  4. 

ba-da-ab-gdl-la 

5.  [  ]-nae-ne-fm-s1ir-ragur'  5 

da-bi 

6.  (  )    ba-da-an-d^r-rwne-  6. 

et-a 

7.  ir-le-im-ma-gid-gid-da      ie-im- 

ma-lal-ld 

8.  on-rn  a-i-ne-m&  me-e  ^e-im-ma- 

na-dig 

9.  ''Mu-ul-lil-ra    ni-mu   iag-ne-du 

ie-im-ma-ag 

10.  uru^mu  »am-ma-gul-lu  i€-im-tw- 

nt-diig 

11.  Uri-iki)    nam-ma-guUlu   ie-int- 

me-ne-diig 

12.  Mjtw-fri    nam-ma-bir(?)-e   ie-im- 

pu-ne-diig^ 

13.  a«-«(    <-««-fm-fr(    ha-ra-mu-UH' 

gur 

14.  *•  Mu-ul-lil-e  ni-idg  ie-dm-       hi 

15.  Iflg-mM  ba-ra-be-in-ied-di         15. 

16.  uru-mu  gul'gul-lu'ia-da-bi  ie-im-         t6. 

mii-<iK-?-tfi 

17.  Uri-iki)  gul-gul-lu-ia-da-^i  ie-         17. 

18.  uAu4t  iJi|  gi-bil-iu  dg-bi  ia-ba- 

an-tar-ri-ei 

19.  me-e  nig-dHg-mu  mu-tu-sutn-'ma- 

gi^ 

20.  »>M-*  urtL-mu-da  ie-en-bi  mu-un- 

da-laUi 

21.  Uri'{ki)    mu-durufi-da    ie-en-bi 

mu-  (««)  ~da-lal-e-e  f 

22.  aM-«i  [diig-ga-ni  ^r]  nu-kHr-ru- 

dam 


[  )  the  angry  word  be 

prevented. 


The  foundations  it  has  anni- 
hilated, and  reduced  to  the 
misery  of  silence. 

Unto  Anu  I  will  cry  my  "how 
long?" 

Unto  Enlil  1  myself  will  pray. 

"My  city  has  been  destroyed" 

will  1  tell  them. 
"Ur  has  been  destroyed"  will 

1  tell  them. 
"  Its  people  have  been  scattered" 

will  1  tell  them. 
May  Anu  prevent  his  word. 

May  Enlil  order  kindness. 

And  may  my  heart  be  at  peace 
from  sorrow. 

My  city  which  has  been  de- 
stroyed may  they 

Ur  which  has  been  destroyed 
may  they 

Of  its  slain  people  may  they 
decree  a  new  dispensation.* 

I  will  offer  my  meditations  unto 
them. 

I  (will  say  to  them);  "In  my 
city  they  have  despised  the 
splendor." 

"In  Ur  the  city  of  homes  they 
have  despised  the  splendor." 

Anu  whose  words  in  this  man- 
ner change  not. 


'  Lines  50-J4  on  Col.  Ill  may  be  restored  from  Iines8-i3. 
*  Literally,  "decree  again  their  oracle." 
'gim,  emphatic  suffix. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  283 

23.  ''■Mu'ul4il-e  enim-bi  i-a-ni 23.  Enlil  the  going  forth  of  whose 

. . .  e-dam  word 


34.  ki-tub-iH    ^-kam-ma-dm 

25.  urur^i  ha-da-gul-im  me-nt  ba- 

da-Hr-am 

26.  S'^-gi-    gdl-bi-    im 


24.  [t  is  the  fourth  song. 

25.  Her  city  has  been  destroyed, 

her   ordinances    have    been 
changed. 

26.  This  is  its  antiphon. 


27.  *'En'lil-li  ud-de  gii-ia-an-de 

28.  ukur-e  le-dm-id 

29.  ud  ^I'gdl-la  kalama-da  ba-da-an- 

Ifar 

30.  uku'C  te-  dm-  id 

31.  ud  dug  Ki-en~gi-da  ba-da-an-^ar 

uku-e  te-dm-  id 

32.  ud  iu!'gdl-e  d-ia-da-an-dg  uku-e 

ie-dm-M 

33.  ^in-gal-ud-daud-da-gub-baSu-na 

im-ma-an-stg 

34.  ud    kalam-til-tU-e    gU-ba-an-de 

uku-e  ie-dm-M 

35.  *En-lil-U  ''Gi-bil  d-tai-a  ki-mu- 

iui-ni-in-[  ] 

36.  ud-gal  an-na-ge  gU-ha-an-de  uku- 

e  U-dm-id 

37.  ud-gal-^    an-ta    gU-ni-ib-im-Tm 

uku-e  U-dm-id 


27.  Enlil  utters  the  spirit  of  wrath 

28.  and  the  people  wail. 

29.  The  spirit  of  wrath  prosperity 

from  the  Land  has  destroyed 

30.  and  the  people  wail. 

31.  The  spirit  of  wrath  peace  from 

Sumer  has   taken  and   the 
people  wail. 

32.  He  has  sent  the  evil  spirit  of 

wrath  and  the  people  wail. 

33.  The    "Messenger  of  Wrath," 

the  "Assisting  Spirit"  into 
its  hand  he  entrusted.^ 

34.  He  has  uttered  the  spirit  of 

wrath  which  exterminates  the 
Land  and  the  people  wail. 

35.  Enlil  tuf  5fn/Gibil  as  its  helper. 

36.  The  great  spirit  of  Heaven  has 

been  uttered  and  the  people 
wail. 

37.  The  mighty  spirit  on  high  he 

commanded   forth   and   the 
people  wail. 


;t  here  for  the  first  time  with  two  avenging  angels  or  genii  who  attend  the  Word  in  its 
>n  of  the  wrath  of  god.  Ifintaluddix  is  mentioned  as  one  of  four  evil  spirits  i7u  limmu  in 
CT.  a;,  33,  44.  He  is  mentioned  with  the  Zd  bird  and  the  denu>n  Udu  as  appearing  in  dream 
omens,  Boissier,  DA.  107,  34.  See  also  Boissier,  Choix,  II  ^3,  4.  On  uddugub  as  a  title  of 
kings  see  BE.  ^1,23  n.  9. 

'The  ud-gal  is  regarded  as  plural 'ffmn  rab&ti  and  identified  with  the  evil  spirits  of  incanta- 
tions, CT.  16,  ai,  166  and  276.  In  the  Epic  of  Creation  the  "great  spirit  of  wrath"  is  one  of  the 
demons  attendant  upon  Tiamat. 


,,  Google 


284  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

38.  ltd  kalam  til-lil-e  ajag  ki . . . 

39.  im-^l-e  a-mag-i-a-gim 

40.  gU-diir'  UTU-ge  sag-gaj  ni-ag . 


38.  The  spirit  that  annihilates  the 
Land 

39.  The  evil  storm  like  a  mounting 
inundation 

40.  The  shepherd  of  the  city  it  slew. 


4 1 .  an-na  iir-ba  ?  mu-un-nigin 

42.  ud-da  igi-^a-ne  mu-un-ne-ne ... 

43.  b^T-bar-ri  ru-gtg-edin-na  tur(T) . . 

44.  an-ne-bar-dm  ne-gur-gilr 

45.  an-neS  UD-UD  e 

46.  kalam-^ma  ISg-lSg-ga 


41.  Of  heaven  its  foundation  it . 

42. 

43- 


45. 
46. 


(Lines  47-55  mostly  illegible.) 

Col.  V. 
(Lines  1-6  mostly  illegible.) 


7.  Uri-(ki}-ma  tiig-gim  ba-e-gul 

. .  .  gim  ba-e-bUr 


7.  Ur  tike  a  garment   thou  hast 

destroyed,    like    a thou 

hast  scattered. 


8.  ki-iub-gii  ykam-ma-dm 

9.  ud  ug(?)-dm  al-[  \uku-e 

U-am-ld 
10.  gil-    gi-    gdl    -bi-    im 


8.  It  is  the  fifth  song. 

9.  The  spirit  of  wrath  like  a  lion 

. .  .  and  the  people  lament. 
10.  This  is  its  antiphon. 


1 1 .  iu/-ta  ud  uru-da   ba-da-an-gar 


12.  a-a^'NannaruTudim-diil-dul-da 

ba-da-an-l  ]«*«-<  U- 

dm-id 

1 3.  ud-ba  ud  kalama-ia  ba-da-art-kdr 

uku-e  U-im-id 


1 1 .  At  that  time  the  spirit  of  wrath 

upon  the  city  was  wrought 
and  the  city * 

12.  Father  Nannar  upon  the  city  of 

master    workmen and 

the  people  wail. 

13.  At  that  time  the  spirit  of  wrath 

descended  upon  the  Land  and 
the  people  wail. 


■See  PBS.  X  i6i.  ij. 

*  The  traces  on  Ni.  7080  are  against  the  restoration  U-am-M.     Lines  1 1 
PBS.  X  No.  10. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  285 

14.  uku-biiika-kud-da  [nu-me-a  bar-  14.  Her  people  without  water  jars 

ba  ba-e-si]  sit  without  her  in  desolation 

15.  bdd-ba  gii  [?']-nin  [kaskala  im-  15.  Within   her in   the   ways 

ma-an-gar-gar  uku-e  U-dm-td\  are   placed   and    the   people 

wail. 

16.  kd-gal-mai    gir-gdl-la-[ba    M-a         16.  The  great  city  gate  and  the 

im-tna-]  an  [B/tD]  highways  with  the  dead  are 

cboked  up. 

17.  duk?^uTi-s)r-gim   du-a-ba    [sag-         17.  Like  a  leather  vessel  all  of  her 

bal-e\  ba-ab-  gar  the  usurper  cast  asunder(?) 

18.  [  ]  e-sir  gir-gdl-la-ba  M         18.  In  her streets  and  roads 

int-ma-an-gar-gar  corpses  he  heaped  Hp{?) 


^6^6  (Myhrman  No.  5) 

Liturgical  Hymns  of  the  Tammuz  Cult 

The  obverse  of  this  fine  single  column  tablet  contained  a 
hymn  in  thirty-eight  lines  to  the  departed  Tammuz.  It  repre- 
sents the  people  wailing  for  the  lord  of  life  who  now  sleeps  in 
the  lower  world.  Thirteen  lines  have  been  completely  broken 
away  from  the  top.  The  reverse  carried  a  long  liturgical  song 
of  the  cult  of  this  god  in  which  the  mother  goddess  Is  represented 
wailing  for  her  ravished  lover.  Songs  of  the  weeping  mother  are 
common  enough  in  these  wailings  for  Tammuz,  but  all  other 
known  examples  of  this  motif  represent  the  major  unmarried 
type  of  mother  goddess  Innini-lshtar  wandering  on  earth,  crying 
for  her  departed  son.  The  hymn  on  our  tablet  reveals  in  a 
wholly  unexpected  manner  the  close  relation  between  the  mother 
goddess  Gula  of  Isin  and  Innini.  It  was  known  that  both  sprang 
from  a  common  source,  a  prehistoric  unmarried  goddess,  but  one 
had  hardly  supposed  that  the  liturgists  went  so  far  as  to  intro- 

•  (Ir?     Variant  ti-nin! 


y  Google 


20b  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

duce  the  married  goddess  of  Isin  in  the  r6Ie  of  the  virgin  mother 
Innini.  The  great  mother  divinity  of  Isin,  although  attached  in  a 
loose  way  to  a  male  consort  Ninurta,  in  that  city  retained,  never- 
theless, much  of  her  ancient  unattached  character.  In  the 
standard  liturgies  she  is  almost  invariably  the  type  of  weeping 
mother,  whereas  innini  is  this  type  in  the  Tammuz  liturgies. 
Since  Gula  of  Isin  was  the  ordinary  liturgical  type  we  find  the 
influence  of  the  ordinary  liturgies  effective  in  the  composition 
of  the  Tammuz  hymn.  It  explains  the  extraordinary  phenome- 
non of  the  introduction  of  a  long  passage  (Rev.  3-10)  from  one 
of  the  wailing  liturgies.  And  the  short  litany  refrain  lines  1 1-20 
is  obviously  an  imitation  of  numberless  similar  passages  of  the 
ordinary  liturgies  in  which  the  goddess  wails  for  various  temples; 
here  only  for  Nippur  and  Isin,  since  the  composition  was  written 
for  the  services  at  Nippur  in  the  period  of  the  Isin  dynasty. 
In  a  most  gratifying  manner  our  tablet  shows  how  the  lamenta- 
tions of  the  mother  goddess  in  the  canonical  prayer  books  express 
sorrows  for  certain  concrete  misfortunes  and  certain  defined 
temples  and  cities  and  find  their  general  expression  in  the  lamen- 
tations for  Tammuz,  the  representative  of  all  human  vicissitudes. 
This  edition  has  been  made  from  my  own  copy.  The  tablet  was 
first  published  by  Myhrman,  PBS.  Vol.  I  No.  5,  and  by  Radau, 
BE.  30  No.  2.  To  these  copies  I  have  been  able  to  make  only 
slight  additions. 

Hymns  of  the  Tammuz  Cult 

i.KU-?[  1  I. 

2.  kalag  gii  [  ]  2.  Oh  strong  one  [  ] 

3.  me-ri  Awf-ii-Ijw'  )  3.  Thy  weary  foot  [  ] 


,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERtAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  287 

4.  4-lirum-iu'-[kui-ii-(u ]  4.  TbywearyATms — breast — hands 

t  I 

5.  a'ju*-iumi  a-ju  [  ]  5.  Oh  strong  healer,  oh healer 

[  ] 

■  6.  kalag  ''Da-mu-mu  [  ]  6.  Oh  strong  one,  my  Damu  [       J 

7.  fw-ffiu  U-mui-un  mu-ji-da  [        \  7.  Oh  child,  lord  GiSzida  [  ] 

8.  a-juadam ni-kui-ii-a-iu  8.  Oh  healer,  how  long  husband 

wilt  thou  be  weary? 

9.  a-ju  a  tu-mu ni-kui-ti-  9.  Oh  healer,  how  long  son . . .  . . 

fl-fM  wilt  thou  be  weary? 

10.  i-di  (?) tu-m  ?  [na?]  lu^l  10.  When  before thou 

sittest, 

11.  kalag  da-ga-dm-nu^-ni . .  ..^u-di         11.  Oh  strong  one,  when  iriio  his 

assembly  thou 

12.  a'Ttb*  iu-si  me-ri a-bal-tnA         12,  Alas  he  whose  fingers  and  feet 

na-nam  [are  bound],  my  irrigator*  is 

he. 

13.  iai-ju~iA  la-ai-[la-ai-]iu~a-ju  13.  Because  of  thee  she  wanders  far 

for  thee. 

14.  kalag  'Da-mu-mu  a-^al-md  na^  14.  My  sturdy  Damu,  my  irrigator 

nam  is  he. 

15.  ama-ju  mu-lu  er-ri  nu-kui-U  15.  Thy  mother  she  of  lamentation 

rests  not. 

16.  ama  ga-ia-an  tinrdib^a  Uib-bi-         16.  The  mother,  queen  who  gives 

M  ni4r4uTun  life  to  the  afflicted,  tarries 

not  to  repose. 
i"].  ■U-lui>A>a-xa  it-ji-ga-ja  slr-ri-M         17.  In  thy  perdition,  in  thy  seizure, 
na-ri-bi  in    melodious    sighing    she 

speaks  of  thee. 
18.  kalag  a-rin-7ui'^au(?)  a-4ar-ra-^a  18,  Oh  hero,  in  thy  contumely,  in 

sir-ri-i&  na-ri-bi  thy  removal,  in  melodious 

sighing  she  speaks  of  thee. 

'So  from  my  copy  and  CT.  IV  4b  i2  =  BahyI<niiaca,  111  17. 

*  For  this  title  of  Tammui,  see  Tammui  and  Isbtar.  34. 

'  Probably  for  dagati~pttiru,  RA.  1 1,  144,  8.  See  also  dakan,  divine  abode,  Delitzsch, 
Ghtter,  13]. 

*Cf.  SBP.  }04.  13. 

'Tille  of  Tammiiz  as  spirit  of  the  waters,  see  TammHi  and  Isbiar,  pp.  6  and  44.  a-ial^ 
Ubik  mi,  pourer  of  water,  irrisator,  is  the  original  idea  of  Ihis  ideogram.  For  the  title  iaiu-a-bal 
in  this  sense,  see  CT.  13,  4a,  7  ff.  Ai-lii  galu  abal,  the  gardener  who  cared  for  Sargon.  Sec  also 
Thureau-Dang[N,  LtilTis  it  Contrats,  No.  [74,  6-8,  galu  a-bal,  a  kind  of  laborer.  The  later 
usage  of  the  word  as  libator  of  water  for  the  souls  of  the  dead,  Semitic  ndlf  ml  is  a  strictly  conven- 
tional development,  see  Babyhniaca,  VI  308. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


19.  anui-ugu-mu    GAR-LUL-LUL' 

na-mu  jJr-ri-Jw  nu-ui  ma-guh- 
bi 

20.  kalag idim-lmame-]en galu-kur-al 


en me~en   galu-kur-dim* 

tinu-[dagal-mu]  kur-idim-matnu 
en  me-en  a-ra-li  ki-sag  kirud-da- 


kalag  me-en  kur-ri-sud-du-i^  im- 
ma-ab-du  me-en 
ud-me-e-ne^  ni-     ?     ? 


19.  My  child-bearing  mother,  my 

lamenter(?)  with  melodious 
sighing  behold  she  stands 

20.  Oh  sturdy  one,  prostrate  thou 

art,  a  man  of  the  land  of 
wailing(?)' 

2 1 .  Oh    lord, thou    art,    a 

man  of  the  land  of  lament. 

22.  In  my  vast  chamber,  in  my  land 

of  misery, 

23.  A  lord  am  1.     In  Aralu,  place 

where  I  am  cast  away, 

24.  A  laborer  am    I.      Unto  the 

faraway  land  I  go. 

25.  Daily(?)  he  [io 


1 .  1  weary  with  heart  woe,  where 
shall  1  rest? 

2.  Oh  sing  to  the  lyre;  I  weary 
with  heart  woe,  where  shall  I 
rest? 

3.  Mother  of  the  chief  city,*  queen 
who  gives  life  to  the  dead  am 
1. 

4.  First  born  daughter  of  heaven.' 
queen  of  Isin  am  1. 

5.  Daughter  of  the  temple,  Queen 
Gunura. 

6.  Holy  tumlu  mother  of  ESabba 

am  I. 

'  at  as  synonym  of  DE  (in  line  ii)  is  probably  a  variant  of  ilu^nagO. 

» Sign  DE, 

■  This  line  is  connected  with  the  classical  interlude  ma-a-bi  ud-mt-na-gim  etc.  discussed  in 
SBP.  [8}n.  loand  BL.  XLIX. 

'  Below  the  double  line  the  figure  )8,  i.e.  )8  lines  on  the  obverse.  Thirteen  lines  have  been 
broken  from  the  top. 

'Cf.  ZiMMEftN,  K.L..  3;  II  4a. 

'On  this  title  see  BL.  J43. 

•  Probably  an  error.    Omitted  in  translation. 


1.  iS-ab-er-ri^   kui-il-a-mu   ma-a^a 

nad-da-[mu\ 

2.  balag-di   tH-ab-er-ri   kui-i-a-mu 

ma~a-a  nad-daA^y\ 

3.  ama  uru-sag  ga-ta-an  lin-dib^a 

min 

4.  sag-tu-an-na    ga-ia-an    l-si-in- 

(ki)-na  min 

5.  iu-mu  e-a  ga-ia-an-mu'  ^'Gur^u- 

TO 

6.  ium-lu-axag  ama  i-Hb-ha  men 


b:.  Goo,<^le 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


•"  Eti-d-nun'  ama  gii-an-ni-si-min 

ga-ia-an  nigin-mar-ra  ki-ajag-ga 

mitt 

ga-ia-an  di-t^ . . .  ga-ia-an  La-ra- 

ak-(ki)  mitt 

atna  i-a  '  Altiati  ^Aiag-iud  min 

iS-ab-er-ri  a-le-ir-rt  ma-a  kul-ii- 
mu 
er  i-kuT-ra-ge  tna-a  kiii-^-mu 

er  ketiur-ra-ge  ma-a  kui-U-mu 

er  dH-a^ag-ga-ge  tna-a  kui-ii-mu 

er  i-dim-ma'-ge  ma-a  kui-ii-mu 

er  uru~sag~gd-ge  ma-a  kui-il-mu 

er  tir-axag-ga'-ge  ma-a  kui-H-mu 

er  l'si-in-(ki)-na-ge  ma-a  kui-H- 

mu 

er  l-gal-mai-a-ge  tna-a  kui-it-tmi 

er  La-ra-ak-{ki)-a-ge  ma-a  kui- 

ii-[mu  ma-a  tia]-d-da-hi 
iH-ab  dam-e-mu  ia-ab  [{»-niw-)* 


•  I  ki-el-la  idb  mu-ud-tia- 


7.  Enanun  mother  of  lamentation 

am  1. 

8.  Queen  of  Niginmarra,*  the  holy 

place,  am  I. 

9.  Queen  of  Alte,'  queen  of  Larak. 

10.  Mother  of  the  temple.  ASnan 

the  divine  lustrator*  am  1. 

1 1 .  Weeping  and  sighing  where  shall 

1  find  rest? 
13.  Weeping  for  Ekur,  where  shall  1 
repose? 

13.  Weeping  for  Kenur.  where  shall 

I  repose? 

14.  Weeping  for  Duazagga,  where 

shall  1  repose? 

1 5.  Weeping  for  the  "  House  of  the 

King,"  where  shall  1  repose? 

16.  Weeping    for    the    chief    city, 

where  shall  1  repose? 

17.  Weeping  for  the  sacred  forest, 

where  shall  I  repose? 

18.  Weeping  for  Isin,  where  shall  1 

repose? 

19.  Weeping  for   Egalmah,  where 

shall  I  repose? 

20.  Weeping  for  Larak,  where  shall 

1  repose,  where  shall  he  rest? 

21.  The  ravished  one  my  husband, 

the  ravished  one,  my  son, 

22.  [In ]  the  clean  place,  the 

ravished  one  my  spouse. 


'On  thii  line,  see  Ihe  commentary  in  Samirian  Lilurgiail  Tixti  173  note  3. 

'Temple  in  Isin-Suruppak.  Suruppak  must  have  been  a  quarter  of  the  later  and  more 
famous  Isin.  Note  that  this  temple  is  assigned  to  Suruppak  in  Poebel,  PBS.  V  1J7,  7.  The 
liturgies,  however,  constantly  place  Niginmar  at  Isin. 

■  I  see  traces  of  a  sign  after  U. 

'Temple  in  L^rafc,  a  quarter  of  Isin.    See  SBP.  160  n.  7. 

*  ajaf-sug  title  of  the  deities  of  lustration  AiSnan.  Nidaba  and  Gibil. 

*  Rendered  bit  Urm,  V  Raw.  t6.  $1,  probably  a  royal  chapel  or  room  in  Ekur  especially  pro- 
vided for  the  king.    SeealsoSBP.i9a.  14;  KL.sjl  11. 

'  Probably  name  of  a  sacred  park  at  Isin.     It  contained  a  chapel,  i-li>ii;it{-fit.  KL.  3;  I  I3. 
'  For  the  restoration,  cf.  RA.  13,  34,  9. 


,,  Google 


290  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONJAN  SECTION 

23.  tu-mu'tur  tu'[mu  ]         23.  The  little  son.  the son 

[  ] 

24.  ga-ia-an  [  ]  24. 
3;.  U-ab  [                                         j  25. 

26.  AN-NE  [  1  26. 

27.  sukkal  [  ]         27.  ' 

L.  E.  a-iab-ha-^i  a-ha-bar-ratti  L.  E.  How  long  his  ravishing? 

how  long  his  absence?* 


A  LiTURGV  TO  Enlil,  Series  e-lum  gud-sun 
(Zimmern  KL.  No.  ii) 

The  history  of  the  text  of  this  long  and  intricate  Enhl  Hturgy 
elucidates  in  unusual  manner  the  evolution  of  Sumerian  prayer 
books  until  they  attained  canonical  and  permanent  form.  The 
earliest  text  of  this  liturgy  is  partially  preserved  on  the  TabUt 
Virolleaud  published  in  the  Revue  d'Assyriologie,  Vol.  XVI.  The 
fragment  was  brought  to  Europe  in  1909  by  the  assyriologist 
Charles  Virolleaud,  having  been  purchased  by  him  during  his 
excavations  in  Persia.  It  is  light  brown  and  varies  from  the  center 
to  the  edge  by  two  inches  to  one  inch  in  thickness.  The  fragment 
is  from  the  upper  left  corner  of  a  large  three(?)  column  tablet. 
About  half  of  the  first  melody  is  preserved  on  the  obverse.  The 
reverse  preserves  the  last  two  melodies.  From  their  rubrics  we 
learn  that  the  entire  series  contained  eleven  sections.  This  tablet 
has  the  rubric  ki-lub-gu  after  each  strophe.  The  titular  litany" 
occupies  as  usual  the  next  to  the  last  place  but  only  the  opening 
lines  giving  the  motif  and  a  few  titles  are  given.  The  redactor 
indicates  the  remaining  titles  by  a  rubric  "(Recite  the  title)  of  a 

■  The  «dge  has  the  figure  48  which  indicates  the  number  of  lines  on  the  reverse  and  left  edge. 
'  See  also  the  same  idea  in  SBP,  ju,  \»  and  KL.  3;  II  41, 
'Concerning  the  (i(a/af/ifci«wj,  see  PBS.  X  156,  17),  etc. 


b:.  Goo,<^[e 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES    AND    PSALMS  29I 

god  until  they  are  finished."  The  rubric  is  in  Semitic  which 
shows  that  the  redaction  was  done  by  Semitic  scholars. 

The  series  as  it  finally  issued  from  the  hands  of  the  liturgists 
in  the  Isin  period  was  written  upon  a  huge  five{?)  column  tablet, 
the  lower  half  of  which  has  been  published  by  Zimmern,  ^U- 
sumeriscbe  KuUlieder,  No.  ir.  Each  column  contained  about 
fifty  lines.  There  are  no  gii-gi-gal  or  antiphons  after  the  melo- 
dies, ten  of  which  1  have  been  able  to  restore.  By  borrowing 
from  old  songs  and  other  liturgies  the  redactors  have  greatly 
increased  the  length  of  this  service.  At  least  ten  songs  have 
been  lost  on  Cols.  Ill,  IV  of  the  obverse  and  1,  11  of  the  reverse. 

The  late  Assyrian  redaction  is  mentioned  in  the  catalogue 
of  prayer  books  IV  Raw.  53  I  13  and  in  BL.  No.  103  Obv.  13. 
SBH.  No.  21,  edited  in  SBP.  112-119,  is  tablet  one  of  the  late 
Babylonian  School'  and  contains  the  first  four  songs,  duplicates  of 
the  first  four  on  K.L.  11.  SBH.  No.  25,  edited  in  SBP.  120-123,* 
carries  on  the  obverse  two  songs  {e-lum  di-da-ra  and  me-e  ur-ri 
men)  found  on  Col.  Ill  of  K.L.  No.  ir,  Rev.,  or  the  two  last 
melodies  before  the  titular  litany.  A  fragment  published  by 
Meek  in  BA.  X  pt.  1,  No.  1 1,  contains  the  end  of  e-lum  di-da-ra 
and  all  of  me-e  ur-ri  men.  SBH.  25  and  Meek  No.  11  belong 
to  the  series  e-lum  di-da-ra,  entered  in  the  Assyrian  catalogue, 
IV  Raw.  53*1  8,  and  form  tablet  one  of  that  service. 

The  titular  litany  of  the  e-lum  gud-sun  series  is  identical 
(except  for  some  variants)  with  the  famous  titular  litany  of  the 
mother  goddess  series  mu-ien  NU-NUNUZ  gim-ma,  tablet  five, 
edited  in  SBP.  149-167.  Portions  of  the  titular  Htany  of  the 
Enlil  series  have  been  edited  in  PBS.  X  155-167,  see  pages 
163-4.    The  titular  Htany  of  ni-ma-al  gu-de-de  occurs  at  the  end 

'  Erroneously  designated  the  Fourth  tablet  oF  am  baranara  in  SBP. 
*  Erroneously  assigned  to  ami  baranara  in  SBP. 


,,  Google 


393  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

of  tablet  two  of  that  series,  SBP.  24-9  =  BL.  72-3.  Not  every 
series  has  a  theological  Htany  of  this  kind,  which  ordinarily 
comes  before  the  er-Sem-ma,  or  intercessional  song  at  the  end. 
The  song  to  the  "word,"  which  occurs  in  all  series,  is  partially 
preserved  on  Obv.  Ill  and  begins  a-ma-ru  na-nam.  The  indis- 
pensable song  to  the  weeping  mother  comes  just  before  the 
titular  litany.  This  little  nine-line  melody  me-e  ur-ri-niin  me-e 
khs^min  must  have  been  a  national  religious  song.  It  was  copied 
into  another  Enlil  song  service  as  we  have  seen.  The  same  song 
introduces  tablet /owr  of  an  Innini  series  of  which  we  have  only 
the  end  of  tablet  three,  K.  2759,  in  BL.  93  f. 

Finally  the  reader  will  note  that  the  first  song  e-lum  gud-sun 
of  this  series  has  been  copied  into  one  of  the  tablets  of  ante 
haranara,  SBH.  No.  22  =  SBP.  r26  f.  A  fragment  of  some 
unknown  series,  K.  8603  =  BL.  14  also  employs  this  song  in  the 
body  of  its  text. 

1 .  e-lum  gud-sun  mu-:[u  kur-kur-W  i .  Exalted  one,   bull   that  over- 

whelms, thy  name  is  on  the 
lands. 

2.  H-mu-un-ti*  kur-kuT-ra   gud-sun  2.  Lord  of  the  lands,  bull  that  over- 

whelms, thy  name,  etc.* 

3.  H-mu-un  dUg-ga-ji-da     gud-sun  3.  Lord  of  the  faithful  word,  bull 

•    that  overwhelms,  etc. 

4.  ''•  Mu-ul4il  a-a  ka-na-dg*-gd  gud-  4.  Enlil,  father  of  the  Land,  bull 

sun  that  overwhelms,  etc, 

5.  sib  sag-gig-ga  gud-sun  ;.  Shepherd  of   the  dark-headed 

people,  bull  that  overwhelms, 
etc. 

6.  i-di-dui  ni-te-na  gud-sun  6.  Thou  of  self-created  vision,  bull 

that  overwhelms,  etc. 

'The  text  of  lines  1-15  is  taken  from  Tahiti  yiroiUaud,  now  CaUiction  Nits.  No   i)is 

*  SBP.  1 11  and  116  have  unnin,  et  passim. 

•  SBH.  41  has  an  inserted  line  between  II.  i-a.     See  SBP.  1 13 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN  LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 


293 


7.  am  GlR^-na  sd-sd  gud-sun 

8.  U~hd-la   kur-ku*  gud-sun  mu-pi 

kur-kur-lH 


9.  mu-iu  kur-ra  mu-ma-al-la-'i&  an 
.  ni-bi  nam-d^b 


ki  ni-ii  nam-slg 

*'  MtftU-Ul    e-ne-eni'iu    kur-ra- 

dnt  ma-^na-al-la-H 

d&g-ga-^u  kuT-ra'dm  ma.tna-at' 

la-U 

da^-a-^uJiUT-ra-dm  ma-ma-al-la- 

an  ni  dHh  sig*  ki  ni-bi  nam-sig 


ama  [nu\*-gig-gi  ama  nu-bar-ra 
damur^i  mi-ni-in-gi-gi 

ga-ta-an  uru  bar-ra-Ta 

dumii-ni  mi-ni-in-gi-gi 

dumu-ni  mi-ni-in-gi-gi 

e4um e-ru-em-{u-iu .... 

kuT-ri  ni-in-gi-gi 

'Mu^ul-lil  mu-lu  ?  A 

kuT-ri  ni-in-gi-[gi] 

e-lum  la-e  e-ne-em-pt  an-t  um~ 

ma-ld&g] 

an-e  ib-[  ] 

*' Mu-ul-lil  la-e  e-m-em-iu  kt-e 

umr{ma-d&g\ 


7.  Wild  bull  who  directs  his  hosts, 

bull  that  overwhelms,  etc 

8.  Thou  that  sleepest  the  sleep  of 

perversity,  bull  that  over- 
whelms, thy  name  is  on  the 
lands. 

9.  When  thy  name  is  laid  upon  the 

lands  the  heavens  tremble  of 
themselves, 

10.  and  the  earth  quakes  of  itself. 

1 1 .  Oh  Enltl,  when  thy  word  is  laid 

upon  the  lands, 

12.  When  thy  command  is  laid  upon 

the  lands, 

13.  When  thy  commdfu/*  is  laid  upon 

the  lands, 

14.  The  heavens  tremble  of  them- 

selves, the  earth  of  itself 
quakes, 

15.  The  harlot  mother,  the  hiero- 

dule  mother  slays  her  son, 
16 queen  of  the  city,  outside 

the  city  slays  her  son. 
17 slays  her  son. 

18.  Oh  exalted at  thy  word . . 

the  foreign  land  ibou  reducest 
to  ibe  misery  of  silence. 

19.  Enlil  lord  of • 

20.  the  foreign  land  thou  reducest  to 

tbe  misery  of  silence 

21.  Oh  exalted  one,  as  for  thee,  thy 

word  in  heaven  speak 

23.         and  heaven  shall 

23.  Enlil,  as  for  thee,  thy  word  on 

earth  speak 


'  Uncertain.    Apparently  REC.  31$.    Elsewhere  in  thii  passage  always  $/4£  which  hai  been 
nad  erin-tufHtnmini-iu,  BL.  in,  16. 
'See  Yale  yocabulary  135. 
'On  this  passage  see  PBS.  X  170,  13  and  Ni.  15304, 8  of  this  volume, 

*  Sic!     Error  for  ni-bi-dHh. 

'Omitted  by  the  scribe.     Line  restored  from  Ni.  IJ104,  II. 

•  With  line  19  the  variant  SBH.  43  lower  fragment  begins. 


,,  Google 


294 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


24.  ki  nu-um-[  ]         24.  and  earth  shall  not 

25.  dim-me-ir    a-fti-a'    um-ma-dug         25.  God    of    libation    speak    [and 

heaven    shall . .  .  and    earth 

shall  not . . . .  ] 

26.  'am  an-ki  am  uru  ii-ba-ge  urn-  26.   Divine  wild  ox  of  heaven  and 

ma-d&g  [ I  earth,  wild  ox  of  the  good 

city'  speak,  etc, 

27.  amai-mai-a*'[Dam-gal-nun-tta-         27,  Mother  of  the   house  of  the 

ge]  famous  one,  Damgalnunna, 

28.  um-ma-dug  | )         28.  speak,  etc. 

29.  'Asar-la-dug-e  \dumu  uru  ff-Im-         29.  Marduk,  son  of  the  good  city* 

i'\ 

30.  um-ma-d&g  [ ."|  30.  speak,  etc. 

31.  *id  ama   uru   ^i-ba-ge  um-lma  31.  River  goddess,   mother  of  the 

dug I  good  city  speak,  etc. 

32.  ''/1-7^-e  ga-ta-[an  ab-su-ra-ka-di*  32.  Zarpanit  queen  of speak, 

um-tna-dug |  etc. 

33.  [sukkal-(id      mu-dug-ga]-sd-a-ra  33.  Faithful  messenger,  calledjby  a 

um-ma''  good  name,  speak,  etc.  {    •  ^ 

34.  [ud-di  du{l)-  du{l)-]dug    lu-dm         34.  (The  spirit]  reduces  [all  things] 

mi-ib-gdl  to  tribute.* 

3$.  ie-e-dm  ama-gan-ra  dumu-ni  ji-  3;.  How  long  shall  the  child-bearing 

em-md-na-ad{X)-du*  mother  reject  her  son? 

36.  te-e-dm ama-gan-ra ga-ia-anuni"*  36.  How  long  shall  the  child-bearing 

bar-ra-ra  dumu-ni  {i-em-md-  mother,  queen  of  the  city, 

na-ad{\)-du  cast  aside  her  son?" 

'Var.  addsrfl, 

'  The  god  Ea  of  Eridu  is  meant. 

'  Cf  Col.  II  19.    On  this  variant  for  duma-mai,  see  note  in  Sumerian  Lilurgical  Texli  16). 

'  Restored  from  Col.  1 1  20, 

'  We  expect  the  sign  EDIN(,  =  n)  but  the  traces  are  clearly  not  those  of  EDfN. 

'Col.  II  3iab-iH-di.    Here  begins  KL  Ni.  1 1, 1,  which  joins  directly  on  to  Tablti  firaUtaiid. 

'This  refrain  is  read  i-um  elc.  on  the  late  variant,  SBH,  No.  ll,  Obv.  lower  fragment. 

•Cf.  SBP.40.  )).  Restoration  uncertain.  This  line  does  not  appear  in  SBH.  41- SBR  113 
which  has  here  insertions  for  Taimetu  and  Nana. 

'  For  -na-ta?.  The  suffixed  conjugation  is  frequently  employed  in  inierrogatlons:  du-iui 
gi-gl-mu,  "When  shall  one  restore  ilr,"  BE,  30,  11,  i,  a-ba  ku-ul-la-be.  "Who  shall  restrain?," 
Ni.  4610,  r,  I.  a-na  an-tut-ab-lai-ni,  "What  shall  1  add  to  thcc^"  Cenouillac,  Drebtvi.  1,  u. 
Variant  SBP,  1 14,  3J  ;a;-na  ab-;i-em-e. 

i»Var.SBH.4),,i„,.ra-i,, 

"  Parallel  passages  do  not  mention  the  "queen  of  the  city"  but  only  the  ordinary  mother  who 
rejects  her  children,  SBH.  iji.  58-61;  BL.  74,  10,  The  phrase  refers  obviously  to  the  mother 
goddess.  "Her  son"  must  be  interpreted  figuratively  in  the  sense  that  the  mother  goddess  is  the 
protector  of  alt  human  creatures. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON— SUMERIAN    LITURGIES   AND    PSALMS 


295 


37.  U-e-dm     ama-gan-ra     ga-la-an 

sun-^na-To}  dumu-ni  ji-em-m^' 
na-ad-du 

38.  a  urU-a  mU'lu  im-me-a-rd'  dumu- 

ni  ^i-em-md-na-ad-du 

39.  a  ki-dagar-Ta-Am  Nippur-dm  ib 

il-ga-a-ra^ 


yi-  How  long  shall  the  child-bearing 
mother,  the  wild-cow  queen, 
reject  her  son? 

38.  How  long  in  the  city  shall  he  of 

wailing  reject  his  son? 

39.  How  long  in  the  wide  land,  in 

Nippur,  in  the  region  of  the 
vast  abode? 


40.  a-gal-gal    ieUsu-su    mulu    la-ju 

mu-un-^u^ 

41.  e-lum  a-gd-gal  Ul-iu-su  mulu  ia- 

fM  mu-un-iu 


42.  ^mu-ul-lil  M-M 


kuT-kAT-ra 


40.  Flood  that  drowns  the  harvests, 

who  comprehends  thy  form? 

41.  Exalted,  flood  that  drowns  the 

harvests   who   comprehends 
thy  form? 

42.  Enlil  lord  of  the  lands,  who  etc. 


Obverse  II 


1 .  il-mu-un  diig-ga-ji-da^ 

2.  "'mu-ul-lil a-a  ka-nag-ga 

3.  sib  sag-gig-ga 

4.  i-di-dui  ni-U-na 


1.  Lord  of  the  faithful  word,  who 

etc, 

2.  Enlil  father  of  the  Land,  who 

etc. 
3-  Shepherd   of  the  dark-headed 

people,  who  etc. 
4.  Thou  of  self-created  vision,  who 

etc. 


'  This  title  galan-mn  or  nii-ii 
» the  ancient  mother  godded 
type  GuU  or  Bau,  as  in  SBP  184, 
called  ri-mat.  Poebel,  OLZ..  1914, 
r.  II  7- 

'ni»-(M  imme  also  BE.  )0.  q  I  a  =  W/  ktilHy).  "Man  of  wailing,"  The  late  version  replaces 
this  line  by  [te-c-im\  da-ga-a-la  dumu-ni,  "How  long  shall  the  wife  of  the  strong  man  reject  Her 
son?",SBP.  114.37.    d<xtSUi=dam-tu(u,S^\\.  ij[,6o. 

'  Probably  a  titleofEkur,  ti^dld  lilleorthe  temple  in  Kullab,  KL.  )  II  10  The  lale  version 
rejects  this  line  since  its  local  reference  was  not  suited  to  general  use. 

*  Here  this  line  begins  an  Enlil  melody  within  the  body  of  a 
Ul-sH-su  was  a  Nergal  melody  and  a  series  based  upon  it  is  catalogued  ir 
K.  69  is  the  first  tablet.     See  also  Boi.lenrOcheh,  Ner(,al.  No  6. 

'The  late  redaction  of  this  melody  revises  this  litany  with  the  n 
HTsaggd — elimma  placed  before  alternate  lines.  When  this  scheme  i! 
deities  are  omitted.    See  SBP.  1 14.     Note  ;  p.  11^  ihid.  is  to  be  suppressed. 


n,  really  means  Miu  timiu.  "the  wild-cow  queen."  and  char- 
;aspatronessof  cattle.  The  title  usually  refers  to  the  married 
19.  and  note  that  Ninsun,  mother  of  Gilgamish,  is  frequently 
(.     The  title  also  applies  to  the  virgin  type  Innini  in  KL.  ijj 


Originally  a-gal-ful 
n  IV  R.  H"  a  of  which 


V  liturgical  ( 
s  employed  alt  feminine 


,,  Google 


296 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


am  erin-na  si-sd 

^luJ-a  dUr-dur 

iag  gi-a  gi-ii  IS-ab  t&g-e  Uig-e 

iag  an-na  gi-u  gi-u 

lag  ''mu-ul-lit  gi-ii  gi-ii 

iag  ur-sag-gal  gi-ii  gi-ii' 


;.  Hero  who  directs  his  hosts,  who 
etc. 

6.  Thou  that  sleepest  the  sleep  of 

perversity,  who  etc. 

7.  Oh  heart  be  reconciled,  be  recon- 

ciled, oh  heart  repose,  repose. 

8.  Oh  heart  of  Anu  be  reconciled, 

be  reconciled. 

9.  Oh  heart  of  Enlil  be  reconciled, 

etc. 
10.  Oh  heart  of  the  great  hero,  be 
reconciled,  etc. 


nt-ma-al-e    pd    al-ma-aP  [li-\e^ 
nap-lan-na  ai-ia-ka-nu 
ni-ma-al-e  ni-ma-al-e 
ni-ma-al-e  jid  al-ma-al 

[kur-gal  ^en-lil-]da  lu-en-ne  ba- 

tdg 

[a-a  ^mu-ul-Ul\  lu-en-ne  ba-ttig 

[kur-gal  ''' en-lil-\su-en-ne  ba-tUg 

[a-a  ^'mu-ul-lil\   lu-en-ne  ba-tug 

it-mu-un   am   uru-^i-ib-iki)    lit- 

en-ne-ba-lAg 

ama-i-mag^-a   ^- dam-gal-nun-na 


^asar-lu-dug  dwmu  ur&  ji-ib-{ki) 

mu-ud-na-an-ni  ''' apin^-nun-na- 
an-ki 


1 1 .  Kneaded  bread  for  the  feast  I 

set, 

12.  Kneaded  bread,  kneaded  bread, 

13.  Kneaded  bread  for  the  feast  I 

set, 

14.  By  the  Great  Mountain,  Enlil, 

it  has  been  blessed. 
1;.  By   Father  Enlil  it  has  been 

blessed. 
16.  The  Great  Mountain  Enlil  has 


.  The  Father  Enlil  has  blessed.* 
.  Lord,  hero  of  the  sacred  city, 

has  shown  grace. 
.  Mother  of  the  house  of  the 

famous  one,   Damgalnunna, 

has  shown  grace. 
.  Asarludug,  son  of  the  sacred 

city,  has  shown  grace. 
.  His  wife  Zarpanit  has  shown 

grace. 


'  Lines  7-10  conjectu rally  resloted  from  Sumerian  LilurgUal  Ttxis  r65,  8-1 1. 
'  Lines  1 1-17  restored  from  SBP,  1 16,  16  ff. 
*  Meaning  and  restoration  uncertain. 
•First  line  on  ZfMMERN.  No.  11  Col,  II. 
'  See  note  on  line  27  above. 

'  Usually  pi  =  ikD,  canal,  is  used  in  this  title  of  Zarpanit,     She  is  originally  a  patro 
irrigation  and  ultimately  identical  with  NinS. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMER[AN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


297 


22.  'id  a 


a  urit  ji-i&-(ii) 


23.  *a-Ti-e  ga-la-an  ah-su-dt* 

24.  sukkal-^id  mu-dug-ga-sd-a  iu-ba- 

e-en 

25.  ni-ma-al-e    fi-ife    ni-ma-al-la-ta 

26.  ji-ib    ni-ma-al-la-ta    ni-ma-al-e 

ji-ib-bi  di-k^r-e' 

27.  ^' mu-ul-lil-U    li-ih-bi-kkr    {i-ib- 

bi  de-kur-e 


22.  River  goddess,  mother  of  the 

sacred  city,  has  shown  grace. 

23.  Zarpanit  queen  of etc. 

24.  Faithful  messenger,  called  by  a 

good  name,  has  shown  grace. 

25.  The  kneaded  bread  which  has 

been  well  made, 

26.  Which  has  been  well  made,  the 

kneaded  bread  may  he  eat 
graciously, 

27.  May  Enlil  graciously  eat;   yea 

graciously  eat. 


28.  ki  an  dur-TU-na-iu  uku?-e  gar- 

ma-an-ji-en 

29.  [''\^-nun-na^-]ki  andur-ru-na-iii 

uku-e  gar  ma-an-^i-en 

30.  S-e  dm-ba-al  ne-sag-mai^  i-e  am- 

ba-al 

31.  a-tii-iu  ma-mii  ^u-luj-ge  a-Ul-tii 

ma-mu 

32.  e-e  jid-M-ab-Ju  e-dam  ud-iui-iu 

e-dam 

33.  ud-da  ne-sag-e  iu-si-sd  e-dam 

34.  itd-dau-gul-ma-maiu-si-s4 e-dam 

35.  itd-da  an  dtm-me-tr  mu-iu  an-ni 

iu-ju-dam 

36.  '''am-an-ki  am  uru-ji-ib-{ki)  an- 

ni  ju-ju-dam 


28.  Where  Anu  sits  may  the  people 

hasten. 

29.  [The  Anunnaki.]     Where  Anu 

sits  let  the  people  hasten. 

30.  To  the  temple  he  enters,  the 

mighty  priest  of  sacrifices  to 
the  temple  enters, 

3 1 .  A  libation  he  offers,  the  priest  of 

hand  washing  a  libation  offers. 

32.  To  the  temple  at  mid-day  go  up! 

at  sun-set  go  up. 

33.  Daily  to  direct  the  sacrifices  go 

up! 

34.  Daily  to  direct  the  prayers  go 

up! 

35.  Daily  Anu  merciful  god* on  hi^ 

proclaim. 

36.  The  hero  of  heaven  and  earth, 

hero  of  the  sacred  city  on 
high  proclaim. 


yj.  ^en-lil  ma-gUn^ '' en-lil  gun-uku- 
t  gar-ma-an-ji-en 

'ai-ia  =  ji-fu,  sea?    Cf.  ab-^u-bil-la,  the  si 
'SBP.  116.  2-j  di-m-kilr-e. 
•Var.  n-mi-a.  SBP.  I  [6,  33. 
<  Line  29  is  false  and  to  be  corrected  after 
Read  ti  an  ilir-ru-na-'Hi     A-fiun-na  \gaT-ma-an- 
'Cf.  SBH.44,  }7. 

'  napbar  mali.  cf.  IV  R.  jji  1 5. 


37.'  To  Enlil  let  all  the  land,  to 
Enlil  let  all  the  people  hasten. 


the  late  text  SBP.  p.  1 18,  j;  f.  which  has  two  linn. 
•li-tn],  where  Anu  sits  let  the  Anunnaki  hasten. 


,,  Google 


398 


UNIVERSITY    MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


.  an-ni  a-ma-an-iH  an-gii  {?)  an-^ 
a-ma-an-tu  iH-ah  dm-ma-a 
-tug-e 


39.  im-ma-an-a-iA  a  dm-ma-ab-lug-e 

40.  ^am-att-ki  a 


n  UTU-ji-ib-(kJ)  dm- 
ma-ah-tug-e^ 


38.  Unto  heaven  verily  1  will  libate 

water,  unto  the  canopy  of 
heaven,  unto  heaven  verily  1 
will  libate  water.  The  heart 
1  will  appease. 

39.  I  will  pour  out  a  libation,  the 

father  I  will  appease. 

40.  The  hero  of  heaven  and  earth, 

the  hero  of  the  sacred  city  I 
will  appease. 


Col.  Ill 

{Here  began  a  melody  of  which  ten  lines  at  least  are  lost.) 

II.  ^-....(/a(=KL.  II  Obv.  Ill  1): 
13.  unugalQ)-da . . .  .\ta 

13.  dH-sag-dl^ta  [ 

14.  i-bi-mr-ta^[ 

15.  «  i-bdr-ta  I 

16.  ii  i-an-na-{ia 

17.  ie-ib  I 

18-22      

2i.i[ 

24.  dH  (?)  [ 


25. 


26.  [mu'un']tug-gd-ta  [ 

27.  mu-utt-iiig-gd-ta  \ 

28.  mu-un-lug-gd-ta  [ 

29.  mu-un-tug-gd-ta  iag  ''■  [ 

30.  mu-un-tiig-gd-ia   kur-gal   'm[u' 

ul-lil  mu-un-tug-gd-ta] 


15- 
16. 
17- 
18-22 


35- 

26.  He  has  been  pacified  I 

27.  He  has  been  pacified  [ 

28.  He  has  been  pacified  [ 

29.  He  has  been  pacified,  the  heart 
of [has  been  pacified] 

30.  He  has  been  pacified,  the  great 
mountain    [Enlil    has    been 

pacified] 

'  It  is  not  certain  that  this  mdody  ended  here.  Possibly  all  the  titles  in  lines  19-17  followed 
here  with  the  rerrain  am-ma-alr-litt-t.  At  any  rate  the  traces  of  a  last  line  on  SBH,  44  are  those 
of  the  last  line  of  this  melody.  There  is  not  space  enough  on  SBH.  44  after  line  37  for  more  than 
the  lines  31-40  supplied  above  for  we  must  make  some  allowance  for  the  interlinear  Semitic 
translations  in  the  break  on  SBH.  44. 

*  Iiibaf  piriSli.  This  sanctuary  at  Nippur  is  mentioned  in  BE.  39  No.  ;  Obv.  1 1;  dA-sag  in 
KL.  64  II  4  and  1116. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES   AND    PSALMS  299 

31.  edin-^a  ?  -a  erida  {ki)-ta  31.  In  the plain  of  Eridu. .  . .' 


32.  A  tempest  it  is  shattering  the 
mountain. 

33.  The  word  of  the  lord  is  a  tem- 
pest. 

34.  The  heart*  of  the  exalted  is  a 
tempest.' 

35.  The  heart  of  Enlil  is  a  tempest. 

36.  The  heart  of  the  lord  is  in  heaven 
and  the  heavens  waver  of 
themselves.' 

37.  The  word  of  Enlil  is  on  earth 
and  the  earth  trembles  of 
itself. 

38.  The  word  which  brings  woe  to 
the  spirits  of  earth. 

39.  His  word  a  prophet  has  not; 
a  magician  it  has  not. 

40.  His  word  is  an  onrushing  tem- 
pest, an  adversary  tooppose  it 

has  not. 

(Here  followed  Obv.  IV;  eight  or  ten  Hnes  continued   this  melody   to  the 
word.     Their  contents  were  similar  to  SBP.  100,  49-57  ff.) 


32.  a-ma-ru  na-nam  kur  al-gul-gul 

33.  ii-mu-uft-e  e-ne-em-ma-^i  a-ma- 

[ru  na-nam] 

34.  iib-bi  e-lum-e  a-ma-ru  na-[nam] 

35.  W6-6»    *-mu-ul-lil    a-ma-ru   na- 

nam 

36.  H-nm-un-na  iag  an-H  an  ni-ne 

ba-ni-ib-gam-tna-  [ne] 

37.  ''mtt-ul-lil   e-ne-em  ki-iu  ki  ni 

sig-ga-ni 

38.  e-ne-em-mi  ''a-nun-na  gil-li-em- 

ei-{a-ni]* 

39.  e-ne-em-tn^-^i  a-ju  nu-luk  tim- 

iar  nur-[un-  tuk] 

40.  e-m-em-^ma-mi  a-ma-ru  p-ga  gah- 

tu-gar  nu-un-tuk' 


Reverse  III 

1.  sukkal-jid  mu-dug-ga-ii-a    [    ] 

2,  dingir  ga-ie-di  a-be-in-si  sag  [    ] 


1.  The    faithful     messenger,     he 
called  by  a  good  name. 

2.  The  god  who  satiates  with  milk 

and  grain,  sag* 


•  End  of  the  si  nth  melody. 

*  Heart  is  used  here  in  the  sense  "wrath." 
»Cf.  SBP.  98,  4of. 

<Cf.  SBP.  98,  44;  124.  19. 

»Cf.SBP.}8,i3. 

'  Cf .  ibid.  98, 48. 

'  Incase  the  tablet  possessed  live  columns  like  KL.  35  then  this  column  is  Rev.  Ill,  I  know 
of  DO  four  column  tablets  of  similar  kind. 

■  sag  began  a  refrain  which  followed  the  titles  of  Enlil,  Ea,  etc.  and  ended  with  this  line. 
See  Obv.  131-41.  etc. 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


3 
4 
5- 

6 
7. 

an-ki-bi-da  im-mi-ib-iun-gi 

ki-an-bi-da  im-mi-ib-i2in-g^ 

ud   i-kHr-ta   kiir-gal    ^ntH-uI-lil 

[  int-mi-ib-gun-gd] 

i-iam-ma^-ta  ama-gal  *nin4il  im 

[-mi-ib-gun-g^] 

an-ni-gar-ra^-ta    ereP    ^mu-uU 

[4il  im-mi-ih-iun-gd] 

3- 
4 
5- 

6. 

7- 

Heaven  and  earth  it  has  pacified. 

Earth  and  heaven  it  pacified. 

When  in  Ekur  the  .great  moun- 
tain Enlil  it  pacified, 

[When]  in  Elamma  the  great 
mother  Ninlil  it  pacified. 

In  Annigarra  the  ccmsort  {sister) 
of  Enhl  it  pacified. 

9- 

lO. 

e-lum  di-da-ra  di-en*  ga-dm-d&r 

di-da-ra  e-lum  di-da-ra  di-en  ga- 
6m-diT 

it-mu-un-e  kuT-kur-[ra-ge  dt-da- 

8. 
9 

10. 

The  exalted  who  walketh  forth, 

where  tarries  he?' 
Who  walketh  forth,  the  exalted 

who   walketh    forth,    where 

tarries  he? 
The   lord   of   the  lands,   who 

walketh  forth,  where  tarries 

he? 
The  lord  of  faithful  word,  who 

etc. 
Enlil,  father  of  the  Land,  who 

... 

[il-mu-]un-e  dug-ga-ii-da         di 

M. 

12. 

^mu-ul-lil  a-a  ka-nag-gd          di 

12. 

13- 

14. 

sib  sag-gig-ga                          di 
i-di-du^  ni-lt-iia                       di 

'3- 

14. 

Shepherd  of  the  dark-headed 
people,  who  etc. 

He  of  self-created  vision,  who 
etc. 

Hero  that  directs  his  hosts,  who 
etc. 

He  that  sleeps  the  sleep  of  per- 
versity, who  etc. 

I  in  a  great  bowl  will  pour  out 
wine  to  him. 

1  like  a  wild  ox  will  bow  down  to 

15- 

am  erin-na  sd-sd                      di 

'5- 

16. 
17- 
18. 

ii-lul-la  dir-dUr                      di 

tne~e  hur-mai~a  kal  ga-an-na-ab 

nisak-ka 

ama-gim  dugud^a  da-mu-uit-lal 

.6. 
17- 
.8. 

the  mighty  one.' 


e  obviously  a  reference 


•  Cf-  SBP.  8i,  47- 

'  A  title  of  Egalmah  in  Isin,  SBH.  94,  393i$BP.  186,  39. 

>  Either  DAM  or  SAL  +  kU  (sister)  must  be  expected,  sir 
to  Aruru  liere. 

•Sicf  An  error  for  in-ne?   See  SBP.  lao,  1.   Peritapi  di  =  it.  "where?"  it rengthed  byen~adi. 

•The  following  melody  has  been  restored  from  the  late  variant  SBP.  p.  lao. 

'  Glossed  gi-da. 

'  Semitic  lu-uk-mi-is-su.  glossed  karnH.  kamU,  "to  bind,"  is  the  natural  rendering  of  laJ. 
The  Semitic  should  perhaps  be  neglected  as  faulty  and  the  Sumerian  rendered,  "Like  a  wild_ox 
by  the  mighty  one  I  am  hoppled." 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


301 


19.  urU-^u    aUgid-gul    ga-an-na-ab- 

20.  kenur  itiam-ti-la  at 

21.  iimbiT-{ki)  i-h&T-ra  al 

22.  urit-^u  tin~tir-{ki)  al 

23.  i'sag-ila  bM-si-ab-ba-{kJ)  al 

24.  i-ji-da  itnai-ti-la  al 

25.  e-te-me-en-an-ki  al 

26.  i-d&r-an-na  al'- 

27.  gi-er-ra  ba-m2  ga-an-na-ab-dug* 


28,  ud  ma-ra  mu-un-^al-la-ta  i-di-a- 

ni  nu-guh 

29,  ^'mu-ul-lil-li  mu-un-^al-la-la  i-di- 

[a-ni  nu-gub  i-di-nam-mu-un- 
dU-ru\ 

30,  *'mu-ul-lil-li     i-de-a-ni    nu-gwh 

i-dl-nam-mu-un-dU-TU 


ig.  "Thy  cily  is  destroyed,"  wiil  I 
say  to  him. 

20.  "  Kenur  and  Enamtila  are  de- 

stroyed," will  I  say  to  him. 

21.  "InSipparEbarraisdestroyed," 

etc. 

22.  "ThycityBabylonisdestroyed," 

etc. 

23.  "Esagilaand  Barsippa  are  de- 

stroyed." etc. 

24.  "Ezida  and  Emahtila  are  de- 

stroyed," etc. 

25.  "  Etemenanki    is    destroyed," 

etc. 

26.  "  Edaranna  is  destroyed, "  etc, 

27.  "Wailing    on     the     reed-flute 

ascends  in  her,"*  wili  I  say 
to  him. 

28.  When  I  am  overjoyous  in  his 

presence  may  1  not  stand. 

29.  As  to  Enlil  when  I  am  over- 

joyous  in  his  presence  may 
1  not  stand. 

30.  In  the  presence  of  Enhl  may  [ 

not  stand;  may  he  behold  me 


31.  me-e  ur-ri-mht  me-e  k^i-win* 

32.  a  i-tu  al-dib  a  i-^ne  al-dib 

33.  [«m]-Mrtl-»M  ama-gal  'niti-lil-ld 

[mht] 

34.  [•'•a]-nt-ru   SAL+KU   "mu-ul- 

lil-ld  [mht] 

35.  [nin?]'&-a  gaian  m-ib^r  mht 


31.  I  am  a  stranger  and  a  fugitive. 

32.  The  risen  waters  seized  away; 

the  risen  waters  seized  away. 

33.  Queen  of  city  and  house,  great 

mother  Ninlil  am  1. 

34.  Aruru,  sister  of  Enlil  1  am. 

35.  A  queenly  caretaker,  queen  of 

Nippur  1  am. 


'  Lines  ai-iemay  not  have  stood  in  the  ancient  liturgy. 
'  Here  begins  variant  81-7-17,  3oj  — BA.  X  87. 
'  Nippur. 

•  Beginningofamclodyof  a  weeping  mother  series.  BL.  p.  94.  12.    It  is  not  certain  that  this 
melody  stood  in  the  ancient  text.    See  for  the  text  81-7-38,  ao)  {  =  781)9)  in  this  volume. 


,,  Google 


302  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

36.  [gaian]  ajag-ga'  gaian   ma-gi-a  36.  An   holy  queen,   queen  of  the 

min  convent  I  am. 

37.  ma  ma-al-la-iu  ma  ma-al-la-i^         37.  In  the  builded  house,  in  the 

builded  house, 

38.  ^mu-ul-lil    [umun>\    kitr-k^r-ra  38.  Enlil    [lord]    of    lands    in    the 

ma  builded  house, 

39.  [erei}-mu  mu-un-iil  ma  39.  My  consort  dwells  not  in  the 

builded  house. 

40.  At  the  end  of  this  column  began  a  long  titular  melody.' 

(Lines  i-ti  of  this  melody,  i.  e.,  40-51  on  KL.  11,  III,  are  supplied  by 
Tablet  Virolleaud,  Rev.  i-i  1,  and  restores  the  entire  section.) 


Reverse  IV(?) 

I.  ''Mu-ul-lil-li    dam-a-ni    ''Nin-  i.  Enlil  and  his  consort  Ninlil  {we 

lil-li  will   pacify).      (  =  Tab.  Vir. 
Rev.  12,) 

3.  An  ^Urdia  ki'U-gu-nu-e^  2.  Anu-Urai  kisegunu. 

3.  ''En-ki  ^Nin-ki  En-ul  '■Nin-ttl  3.  Enki  and  Ninki,  Enul  and  Nin- 

ul. 

4.  ''En-da-Iurim-ma     ''Nin-da-  4.  EndaSurimma,  NindaSurimma.' 

iurim-ma 

5.  ''En-du-a^ag-ga    ''Nin-dU-ajag-  5.  The  Lord  of  Duazag,  the  Queen 

ga^  of  Duazag. 

6.  ama  ''Nin-lU  a-a  ^Mw-ul-Ul  6.  Mother  Ninlil  and  father  Enlil. 

7.  "'■En-ul-til-la'  ^En-me-en-Mr-ra^  7.  Enuttilla  and  EnmenJarra. 

8.  nin-ii-an-na^   ga-ia-an   gar-sag-  8.  Ninzianna  and  Ninharsag. 


'Cf.  SBH.  [33,37. 

'The  duplicate.  Meek,  No.  11,  has  here  another  melody  not  a  titular  litany.  ThisleM  does 
not  belong  lo  the  t-lum  gud-sun  series. 

'This  title  ot  UraSa  remains  unexplained.  In  all  other  examples  *UraVi  ki-te-fu-nu-ra. 
SBP.  150,  6;  90,  30;  K,  ^9ji  Rev.  ag;  KL  17  Rev.  II  6.  Perhaps  also  Gudea,  Cyl.  B  19.  13 
is  to  be  restored  ki-U-gu-[nM-ra\. 

•  Father-mother  names  of  Enlil,  IV  Raw.  ib  17  f. 

'  Enlil  names,  CT,  24.  4,  34  f, 

'  Enlil.  CT- 14. 4. 20. 

'Usually  mc-liT-ra.  Enlil  name,  CT.  24,  4,  16,  Not  originally  associated  with  Nergal. 
See  Histfrical  and  Religious  Texts,  p.  jj. 

■  Here  both  titles  of  Ninlil.     Variant  nin-iid-an-na.  PSBA,  igi  1,  33}  n.  39. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES   AND    PSALMS  303 

.  'Sul-pa-i'  en  "'baniur-ra 
.  ama  ie-en-tiir^  dim-me-ir  imin 


1 1 .  u-mu-un  si'Nipru-iki)  u-mu-un 
kalag-a 
13.  gu-de-d^  ga-ia-an  Nipru-(ki) 

13.  dingir  dumu-sag^  ^ga-ia-an  mu- 

un-ga-ra 

14.  ''Nusku  [d-]mai  dingir-gidim  [i- 

kur-ra] 
[15.  ama  i-a-ge  ''•Sa-idr-nun-na] 

[16.  ''Se-ra-ai  gidim  i-iar-ra  ] 

{17.  lamma-idg-ga      me-lam-an-na] 

18.  dumu  \sukkal-gal  ''Nannar 

^Zuen-na 

19.  'En-lnu-NUNUZ-ji   "-Nannar^ 

dam  '''Nannar-ge] 

20.  nu^anda-[mai  '-Mu-ul-lil-la-ji- 

gA 

21.  ''-[En]-bu-[ul-e  dumu  i-iab^a] 

22.  lul-a\n^a  umun  ^ar-sag-ial-ge] 

23.  *ga-la-{an-gal-e     ama-an-na-ge] 


9.  Sulpae,  lord  of  the  sacrificial 
board. 

10.  Mother  Sentur,  (mother)  of  the 

seven  gods,* 

1 1 .  The  lord  light  of  Nippur,  mighty 

lord. 

12.  The    loud    crying,    queen    of 

Nippur. 

13.  Divine  first  born  daughter,  di- 

vine queen  of  treasures. 

14.  Nusku  of  mighty  message,  di- 

vine spirit  of  Ekur. 
(ij.  Mother  of  the  temple,  Sadar- 

nunna-l 
[16.  ^rah  spirit  of  ESarra.l 
[17.  The    propitious    spirit    whose 

splendor  is  supreme.) 

18.  The  son,  [great  messenger,  Nan- 

nar-Sin.] 

19.  Zir  Ispouse  of  Nannar]. 

20.  [The    august]    prefect,    [divine 

Enlilzij* 

21.  [Enbul  son  of  ESabba.] 

22.  Hero  of  [heaven,  lord  of  the 

great  mountain.) 

23.  Ningal  [heavenly  mother.) 


'Originally  title  of  Enlii,  CT.  34,  3(,  97=1},  42.     Usually  Marduk  as  Jupiter. 

'  Two  other  readings  of  this  title  of  Ninlil  as  mother  goddess  are  known;  Se-en-tilT,  SBP. 
1^0  n,  ;,  I.  11  and  St-e«-tur,  King,  Supplenuni  to  Bezold's  Calalogue,  p.  10,  No.  $1,8  where 
she  is  identified  with  Nintud-'Mfif. 

■  In  ZA.  VI  14J,  31  their  mother  is  Uhara,  another  title  of  the  same  mother  goddess.  For 
the  seven  gods  see  tV  Raw.  31  No.  r  B. 

'  Perhaps— I i-ga/,  title  of  Ninutta,  SBH.  ija,  a6;  BL.  92,  7.     CT.  34,  7,  la. 

*  Usually  title  of  Ninlil  as  here,  SBH.  133,  33;  SBP.  150  n.  5,  13.  But  consort  of  Ninurta, 
CT.  34,  7.  13. 

•  Var.  *Nappasi. 

'  The  entire  ideogram  was  read  [i>=fi>fB,  Smith.  Misctl.  Tixls  35,  r6. 

'  A  legendary  king  who  had  received  apotheosis,  and  was  placed  in  the  court  of  Enlil,  CT. 
34,  6,  30  =  8  Col.  Ill  I.  The  variant  SBP.  ip,  ij  inserts  another  deified  king  Ur-Sin.  See 
also  Genouillac,  Drehem,  5^01  II  ii;   Babylonian  Liturgiti,  93  Rev.  lo;  CT.  34.  6,  31. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


34.  'ga-ia-lan     an-na    di-ni-gi-ge^ 

25.  mu^ud-[na-ni     *'Ama-uium-gal- 

an-na] 

36.  ama  i'[mu-un-mi  gaian  sun-\na 

27.  U'[m»-un   banda  H-mtt-un   H-] 

nun-na 

28.  i-rib  an-na  ma-tin-an-na 


24.  The  queen  of  heaven  [who  alone 

is  strong.) 

25.  Her  husband  [Tammuz.] 

26.  The  mother  of  the  lord,*  Ninsun. 

27.  Lugalbanda  lord  of  ESnunak. 

28.  The  heavenly  sister-in-law,  Ge5- 

tinanna.' 


(Here  supply  twenty-eight  lines  =SBP  154,  24-1^6,  51.) 


Reverse  V(?) 


1.  ^-En-A-nun  ama  gii-an-ni-si 

2.  ''■NlND/l+CUO  amar  ^ag-gi- 

ra* 

3.  ^Su-nir-da'  en  iul-mS-ra 

4.  dumu'idg-ga  ga-ia-an  kdr^-nun' 

na-ra 

5.  ga-ia-an  dig-ga  dingir-lum-tna^" 

ur-sag 

6.  u-mu-un    uru'^-gal    ^-mu-un 

i'^-gid-da 


1.  Enanunmotherof  loud  weeping.* 

2.  Ninda-Gud,  the  radiant  son. 

3.  Sunirda,    queen,     heroine    of 

battle. 

4.  The   pious  daughter,   Ninkar- 

nunna.' 

5.  Queen{?)  of  the  dead,  Lumma 

the  heroic. 

6.  Lord  of  the  grave,  lord  of  the 

seizing  hand. 


'Or  gi-ur-saf.  Jht  Semitic  h  la ediS-U-iakarradal.  On  Innini  queen  of  heaven,  see  Tammu^ 
and  Ishtar,  88. 

'I.e.,  Gilgamish. 

'  See  Tammui  and  Isblar  37,  n.  3. 

*  On  this  iLtle  of  the  weeping  mother,  see  Sunurian  Liturgical  Ttxls  1 7). 

*  A  title  of  Immer  the  thunder  god. 

*  Zagin-iia> (aggira.  see  Sunurian  Gramnutr,  J  47. 

'  Aja  goddess  of  light  and  battle,  Babylonian  Litmgiti  143. 

*  ZiMMERN.  AZAC  an  error? 
»Cf.  K,7i45,7it.CT.i9.47 

"'ium-ma  or  yumma,  CT.  24,  6,  ]8  one  of  two  lUukku  of  Ekur.  Duplicate  34,  w,  1 17. 
Often  in  namesof  the  early  period,  Scheil,  Textes  Elamitts-Stmiliques.  p.  4  and  in  name  of  ancient 
patesi  of  Umma.  L/r-Ium-nu,  see  Thureau-Dangin,  SAK.  27).  Scheil,  I.  c.  4,  says  that 
Lum,  E/umisan  Elamitlcgod.  The  title  ijffln-di>ga  indicates  a  female  deity.  Note  the  variant 
galan-!a4um-ma,  SBP.  158,  56,     An  underworld  deity. 

"  Br.  N0.909,  Var  SBP.  158,  57  =  V  Raw.  52  II  27,  hasKimjoi. 

"  Var.  of  ij=idu. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


305 


7.  ''Ir^a'gal  ki-a-m^si-ra? 

8.  lamma-idg-ga  sil-gig  edin~na 

9.  ^Nin-i\g-ge  ^Guikiitrbavda-Ta 

10.  ii-mM-MM    nig-ttam-ma-ge    IjU-* 

kur-kur'' 

1 1 .  sal-si*-a  'Ba-W'Ug-ga 

13.  ti-mu-un   ni   me    en*    ga-ia-an 
ab(u 

13.  'vlinan  ^•Ajag-sug'"  mutt-galu^^- 

sal-sal 

14.  [jl-m«-uMl    Jd-fl"    ki-sd**   dumu 

nun-ra 

15.  \gidim  uru-]ma  ur  sag-imin 

16.  [*Gi-bil  mu-  ?  ?]-na'^  mu-Un  ur- 

sag 

17.  ['' Ui-ta-ed-di  mu-lu]  ki'ajag-ga 

18.  [umun  puj-da  sttb-be  an-na       ] 


7.  Great  Girra,  hero  unopposable. 

8.  The  good  genius  of  the  dark 

ways  of  the  plain.* 

9.  Ninsig  GuSkinbanda, 

to.  Lord    of    whatsoever    is,    the 
sculptured  form. 

11.  The  earth  woman,  beneficent 

Bau. 

12.  Lord  of  might,  lord  of  decrees, 

priest  of  the  deep.* 

13.  ASnan  the  divine  cleanser,  the 

loud  crying. 

14.  Lord  of  hght,  director  of  the 

earth,  and  the  daughter  of 
the  prince.'* 

15.  The  demon  of  my  city  the  dog 

of  seven  heads. 

16.  Gibil warlike  man. 

17.  Ultaedde  lord  of  the  holy  place. 

18.  [Lord    of    the    land,    light    of 

heaven.]" 


I,  Sumirian  Liturgical  Texts,  p.  174,  7. 

irns  not  back  his  might.     See  I.  c.  17)  n.  3.     For  t>s 


'  Sign  NITAB.    See  Var,  i 

•  For  gtid-4-tut-ff-a,  ox  thai 
5t»>t.  Cr.  S  40  ft. 

■  Spirit  of  the  lower  world,  CT.  24,  8,  t). 

•Van.  iHn,  orlniSBP.  158,61;  CT.  34,  13,34.  Hence  tfU  {m«Un)  has  also  the  value  !<« 
orliM.    See  on  lines  9  f.  Sunurian  Liiurgical  Tixts  174  n.  5. 

»For*ai. 

'Gunuof  yu.    Vii.  NU-NUNUZ-ki-a,!xeSBP.  158,  6a=-CT.  14,  10,1. 

'  Var.  A-mA-mti.     Ma-nut,  Ma-mi,  Mi-mi,  A-mi—  Bau,  Nintud. 

'  For  tn-mt—bll  parfi.  Var.  umun  me.  Here  certainly  a  male  deity  as  ^Nin-ni  —  AlmM, 
form  of  Nergal  in  V  Raw.  ai.  35.  For  Nin-tii  in  the  early  period  see  Allotte  de  la  FuVi,  DP. 
138  N  3.  But  Nitfnl~Nin-7ii-mal-A\an\u,  form  of  Allat  sister  Ninlil,  CT.  34,  10,  3,  cf.  V  R. 
31. 16. 

*  Variant  SBP.  158,  63  —  SBK.  86.63  reads  ianga-maf  ^ju-ge.  For  the  writing  of  Iintjn,  lec 
Babylonian  Liturgits,  p.  XXH  n.  3. 

"On  variants  Duni-sug,  CHr-rn-si-ga,  see  Sam.  Lit.  Texts  174,  9. 

"Sic!    Perhaps  error  for  ^d-mun.    See  also  CT.  34, 9,  40  '(fa-mun-sat(,f)-s£?.   SBP.  [58.64. 

"  Title  of  Shamash,  CT.  35,35,  il. 

"Title  of  Shamash  here.    Variant '5i(-iii^-dM—Aja,  CT.  35.  9.  35. 

"i.e.  Aja. 

"  So!     Var,  mu-galam.  "of  skilful  name." 

"See  Var.  Sum.  Lit.  Texts  175.  10. 


,,  Google 


3o6 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


19.  [umun  d-ju  umun  e^-gid-da        ] 


[ga-ia-an-ne-da  umun  mu-{i-da] 
I  )  du-a 

I  Ho 

[^Ir-ri-ei  ur-sag  ga-ia]-an-subur 

[dingir  ama  e-uru-sag-gd  gaian 

tin-dih-ba] 


19.  [Lord  Nergal,  him  of  the  seizing 
hand.] 

20.  [AllatandNingiSzidaj* 

21.1  1 

22.   I  I' 

2).  [IrriS,  the  heroic]  lord  of  the  soil. 

24.  [The  divine  mother  of  the  tem- 
ple of  the  chief  city*  queen 
who  gives  life  to  the  dead.] 

25.  The  lofty  browed  queen  of  Isin. 

26.  Pabil-sag'  lord  of  Larak. 

27.  Gunura  bar  of  the  Land. 

28.  The  pious  Damu  lord  of  the 
flood.* 

29.  Immer  lord  of  terror,' 
30 the  river' 

31.  Lord  of  the  souls  of  Sumer,  of 
the  souls  of  the  lands. 

32.  Suddam,  daughter  of  the  prince, 
mother  of  ESabba. 

About  twenty-four  lines  completed  this  column  and  ended  the  liturgy. 
The  void  is  to  be  completed  by  part  of  the  titular  litany,  SBP.  160,  19-164, 
38,  and  by  a  short  intercession  similar  to  the  fragmentary  intercession  at  the 
end  of  KL.  No.  8.  It  is  possible  that  the  eleventh  and  last  section  on  Tablet 
Virolleaud  was  retained  as  the  final  melody  of  this  later  redaction. 


25.  [sag-gi  an-na  gaian]  l-si-in-na 

26.  [''Pa-bil-sag  u-mu-]un  La-ra-ag- 

27.  ["'Gu-nu-ra  dim-gal\  kalam-ma 

28.  ["Da-mu   idg-ga   u-]mu-un  gir- 

29.  [''Immer  v-mu-un]  nt-dU-an-na 

30.  [  )  id-da-ra 

31.  lU-mu-un  h  ka-nai-]gd  it  kur- 

kur-ra 

32.  ['''Sii-ud-da-am    du-mu   nun-na 

ama  i-]iab-ba 


'  So  Vir  I.  c.  I.  II.    See  above,  line  6, 

'  Certainly  these  two  underworld  deities  are  intended  in  this  line.    They  o 
in  CT,  35,  5,  60-64.    See  also  a;,  8,  14  where  read  Nin-n/-da. 
'  Two  lines  not  on  any  variant. 
'Gulaof  Isin. 

*  See  for  reading,  Sum.  Lit.  Tixts  1 76,  5. 

*  See  Babylonian  Lilurgiei  96  n.  1 . 

'  For  variants,  see  5am.  Lit.  Ttxts  177,  8. 

*  Variant  SBP.   160,   16  has  another  text.     0th 
8  IV  8;  Sum.Lil.  Ttxts.  177. 


s  omit  the  line  altogether,  KL. 


,,  Google 


stenien  langdon — sumerian  liturgies  and  psalms  jftj 

Reverse  of  Tablet  Virolleaud 
(The  titular  litany) 

1.  i-e  sub-da  sulhda  [mwun-la^-efir'ne-en] 

To  the  temple  with  prayer,  with  prayer  let  us  go.' 

2.  baJa^  t-e  dirig  suh-da  [mu^un-la^-en-^ne-en] 

To  the  lyre  unto  the  temple  which  surpasses  all  let  us  go. 

3.  balag  nigin-na-e  sub-da  ^'Mu-[ul-lil-Ta  mu-un] 

To  the  lyre  unto  the  merciful  one  with  prayer,  [unto  Enlil,] 

4.  balag  dimtne-ir  mu'lu  sub-da  *Mu-ul-{lil-ra  tntt-un] 

To  the  lyre  unto  god,  the  lord,  with  prayer,  unto  Enlil  [let  us  go). 

5.  dtmtm-ir  lu-gdl-lu-ne-en  sub-da  mu-un-la^-en'[ne-en] 

Unto  him  who  is  god  of  his  people  with  prayer  let  us  go. 
,  6.  me-en-ne  i-e  iiib  a-ra-^u^  mu-un4ai-en-ne-{en\ 
We  "Oh  temple  repose"  in  prayer  come 

7.  me-en-n€  ki-e  tub  a-ra-pt^  mu~un-la^-{en)-ne-en  *Mur\uir4il~Ta\ 

We  "Oh  earth  repose"  in  prayer  come,  unto  Enlil  (come). 

8.  u-mur^n  iS-ab  fub-t-da  in-gii^-la^-{en)-m-en  *Mur{id-liUTa\ 

To  pacify  the  heart  of  the  lord  behold  we  come  unto  Enlil. 
g.  i&-ab  iun-gd  bar  iun-gd-da  in-g&-lai-ne-en  '^Mu-[ulrlil-Ta] 

To  pacify  the  heart,  to  pacify  the  soul,  behold  we  come  to  Enlil. 

10.  me-en-^ne  l&-ab  ii-mu~un-tta  mu-un-tub-{en)^w-en  ^Mu-{ul4il\ 

We  will  pacify  the  heart  of  the  lord,  yea  of  Enlil. 

11.  iJi-ab  an~na  lH-ab  ^Afu^ul-ltl-ld  mu-un-4ub-(en)-ne-fH 

The  heart  of  Anu  and  the  heart  of  Entil  we  will  pacify. 

12.  *-Mu-ul-lil-U  dam-a-ni  ^Nin-lil-ld 

[The  heart  of]  Enlil  and  his  wife  Ninlil  [we  will  pacify.] 

13.  *-En-ki  '-Nin-ki  ''En-mul  'Nin-mul* 

The  heart  of  Enki,  Ninki,  Enmul  and  Ninmul  [we  will  pacify.] 
14  i-Iu  a-di  ig-ga-am-tna-ru 

A  god  until  they  are  finished.^ 

'  Cf.  SBP.  74,  19  and  68,  5. 

*  For  this  sign^REC.  46,  sec  now  K.L.,  15  IN  ij.  The  two  signs  ftola;  and  da^  are  dis- 
tinguished clearly  on  this  tablet;  seeObv.  gfor  Jvji,  On  the'distinction  of  two  original  signs  in 
Br.  7034,  seeTHUREAU-DANGiN,  ZA.  t;.  167;  ChicagoSyllabary  aoSf.,  and  PBS.  11  No.  11  Obv. 
Q>1.  11  4j  and  46  and  page  i).    Syl.  B  distinguishes  the  two  signs. 

■See  RA.  11,45  ».  5. 

*  All  father-mother  names  of  Enlil,  CT.  34.  j,  ag  ff. 

'  This  Semitic  rubric  is  unique  in  the  published  literature  of  Sumerian  liturgies.  It  indicates 
that  the  choristers  should  here  complete  the  long  titular  litany  by  reciting  the  titles  of  the  duties 
named  in  the  litany  given  in  full  on  the  Berlin  tablet ;  see  the  preceding  edition  of  K.  L.  1 1  Rev. 
IV  Iff. 


y  Google 


308  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

ki-ii^gli  lo-iam-jwn' 
The  tenth  strophe. 

(The  Recessional) 
t  J.  il-mH-un-fflM  ja-e  babbar*  urur^nul  ur~sag-g&  metn 

My  lord  thou  art,  light  of  my  city,  a  hero  thou  art. 
i6.  iHb-bi-^mu  it-^mu-un  kalag-a  ur-sag-gd  me-en 

My  illumination,  oh  valiant  lord,  a  hero  thou  art. 

17.  u-mwun  kalag-a  ur-sag-g^  me-en  kalag-ga-na  me-en 

Oh  valiant  lord,  a  hero  thou  art,  its'  defender  thou  art. 

18.  ''Babbar-gim  ja-e    ?    en-na  an-ni  tiir-tuT-ne-[en\ 

Like  Shamash  thou  art into  heaven  enters. 

19.  'Nannaf'gim  ki  dumu-ju  an-na(?)*  na-an-gir'ri-[ne-en] 

Like  Nannar  where  thy  son'  in  heaven  hastens. 

30.  it-mu-un-mu  entm-ju  galu-ra*  nnii  n-na-ofr-f f-[fm] 

My  lord  thy  word  on  man  has  fallen. 

3 1 .  enem-^u  galu  ki'-kal-ra  na-an-na-ab-ji-[em] 

Thy  word  on  him  of  the  foreign  land  has  fallen. 
23.  enem-^u  galu  en-na  nu^leg-ra  na-an-na-ab-^i-{em] 

Thy  word  on  men  as  many  as  are  not  obedient  has  fallen. 

33.  ii-mu-un-mu  uru-pt^  i-ni  a-sar-sar'Ta' 

My  lord  beneficent  waters  in  thy  city  cause  to  spring  forth. 

34.  a-a  '''Mu-ul'lil  ki-bur-la-bur-la  Mnt-fw-a  i-ni 

Father  Enlil in  thy  city  cause  to  come  forth. 

Jfci-J«6-|A  I  i-kam-ma 
The  eleventh  strophe. 

25.  sub-bi  ie-ib  i-kur-ra-ia  ki-na  gi-gi-ra. 

A  prayer  for  the  brick  walls  of  Ekur,  that  it  return  to  its  place. 

ki-U-bi-im 
A  song  of  supplication. 

26.  4U4il  e-lum  gud-sun 

It  is  finished,  the  series  "Exalted,  bull  that  overwhelms." 

'  For  this  rubric,  see  PBS.  X  [;i  note  [. 

»  For  Enlil  connected  with  the  idea  of  light,  see  PBS.  X  1  s8  n.  1 . 

'  The  pronoun  refers  apparently  to  urn  in  line  1 5. 

•  Tent  na-an! 

*  The  moon  god  was  held  to  be  the  son  of  Enlil,  SBP.  196.  ;. 
•Cf.  BL.  48.13. 

'  Te«  or 

■  Same  phraie  in  Ni,  1400$.  14.     See  Le  Potnu  SumtritH  iu  Paradit,  p.  140. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — 5UMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  309 

"359  (Myhrman  No.  8) 
Early  Form  of  the  Series  'Babbar-gim-e-ta 
Ni.  11359,  published  by  Myhrman,  PBS.  I.  No.  8,  is  the 
left  upper  corner  of  a  large  four  column  tablet.  It  contained  a 
series  of  ki-Sub  melodies  which  formed  the  prototype  of  the  later 
Enlil  series  of  which  three  tablets  have  been  edited  by  the 
writer,  see  Sumerian  Liturgical  Texts  167.  It  stands  to  the 
coinpleted  series  as  the  similar  tablet  of  the  e-lum  gud-sun  series. 
Tablet  Virolleaud,  is  related  to  its  completed  canonical  form  in 
ZiMMERN,  KL.  II.  Both  Ni.  11359  and  Tablet  Virolleaud  show 
the  evolution  of  two  great  Enlil  liturgies  arrested  midway  in 
their  evolution.  They  still  consist  of  unmethodically  joined 
melodies.  Both  have  the  same  rubric  at  the  end.  The  first 
melody  of  ''Babbar-gim-h-ta  after  line  four  agrees  with  the  first 
melody  of  the  Enlil  series  ji-bu-ii  sud-du-dm  in  Zimmern,  KL.  8 
and  9  after  line  five  of  that  series.  A  duplicate  will  be  found  in 
BL.  pp.  37-39,  which  see  for  critical  notes  on  the  reconstructed 
text. 

Obverse  I 

1 .  'Babbar-gim  i-ia  [  1  i  ■  Like  the  sun-god  arise 

2.  ii-mu-un  gan 2.  Oh  lord 

5.  a-a  ^Mu-ul-lil   U'\mu-un  kur-  3.  Father  Enlil,  lord  of  the  lands. 

kur-ra 

4.  ''Mu-ul-Hl  u-mu-{un  dug-ga-ji-  4.  Enlil  lord  of  faithful  word. 

da] 

5.  am-n4-a  gud-di  sig-gan-nu-di  5.  Crouching  wi!d  ox,   bull  that 

rests  not.' 

6.  'Mu-ul-til  dam-kar-lra  ki-dagar-  6.  Enlil    herdsman    of    the    wide 

ra]  earth. 

'  FoT  the  interprelation,  sec  RA.  U,  tj  n.  5, 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN    SECTION 


.  ii-ffiu-un  mu  eTin-na-[ni  sag-ma- 

al  hi 

,  ii-mu-un  id  erin-a-{ni  ga-eri-dm 

da-\ma'{la\ 

,  it-mu-un  ki-d^r-a-ni  [uru  ir-ir] 

.  kitUi-a-ni  d-4g-[g^-e        gal-ju] 

.  a-a  ''Mwul-lil uru-lta  Nibru-kt] 

.  i-kuT  i-iag-gi'pad-do'ta 

■  gi-gun-na  gii-tir-iim  [^^erin-tia- 
ta 

.  [        ]Sel-du'a-ka  hi-mul  [ 

la] 
I        Isi-ra    l-Udi-    lit  J 

[  I?«    i  babbar  nu-liu-la] 

[i\-gi-dim-dim-ma  i-di  [nu-bar- 
ri-ta] 

(        ]mitl    dufii    itui-{ilui-la] 

l«(?)l-ii»-<j    "ik-{ku-igi-UiI-a-Ui] 


i6. 

17- 

18, 
19- 


]-silim-ma  mit-mar- 
[mar-ra'ta] 


Lxird  who  summons  his  toilers, 
recorder  of  the  earth. 

Lord  who  causes  to  abound  oil 
for  his  toilers,  milk  for  the 
newly  born.' 

Lord  whose  abode  is  the  city 
of  weeping. 

In  whose  chamber  oracles  are 
interpreted. 

Father  Enlil  in  (thy)  city  Nip- 
pur. 

In  Ekur  temple  of  (thy)  heart's 
choice. 

In  the  great  dark  chamber  of 
odorous  forest  and  cedar. 

In ;, 

In the  house  of  vision. 

In house  which  knows  the 

sunlight  not. 

In  the  house  of  the  "reed  of 
sorrmv,"  which  eye  beholds 
not. 

In  the  great causing  pros- 
perity to  abound, 

In  Ekua  gate  of  the  lifting  of 
the  eyes, 


Reverse  II 


sub-bi  U-ib  i-[kuT-Ta-ia?]  ki-na-         21.  Prayer  for  the  brick  walls  of 
an-gi-gi-ra^  Ekur  that  it  be  restored  to 

its  place. 

ki-iii-bi-im  22.  It  is  a  service  of  prostrations. 


,,  Google 


stephen  langdon-rsumerian  liturgies  and  psalms  3i  i 

Liturgy  of  the  Cult  of  Ke§ 
(Nippur  Fragments  and  Ashmolean  Prism.) 
Ke5  and  Opis,  two  closely  associated  but  unlocated  southern 
cities  of  Sumer,  lay  apparently  somewhere  in  the  region  between 
Erech  and  Surappak.  So  closely  were  they  united  that  the  same 
cult  of  the  great  mother  goddess  obtained  in  both.'  According 
to  II  Raw.  60a  26,  Innini  of  Hallab  was  the  queen  of  Ke§.  The 
Sumerian  liturgy,  BL.  p.  54,  names  Nintud  as  the  goddess  of 
this  city,  but  the  list  of  mother  goddesses  in  PSBA.  191 1  PI.  XII 
calls  her  by  the  name  Ninharsag,"  where  she  is  associated  with 
Ninmenna,  epithet  of  the  earth  mother,  in  Adab  a  city  near 
Suruppak.  A  fragment,  No.  102  in  BL.,  reads  her  title  at  KeS 
as  Aruru.  These  various  epithets  all  refer  to  the  earth  mother 
whose  principal  married  type  is  Ninlil.  In  fact  one  liturgy 
actually  names  Ninlil  as  the  goddess  of  Ke§,  SBP.  24,  74. "  On 
the  other  hand,  a  cult  document  of  the  Neo-Babylonian  period 
names  Kallat  Ekur,  the  bride  of  Ekur,  as  the  goddess  of  U-pi-ia 
or  Opis,  VS.  VI.  213,  21.^  The  bride  of  Ekur  is  Ninlil.  Thus  the 
twin  cities  Kei  and  Opis  of  Sumer  with  their  cult  of  the  earth 
mother  Ninharsag  or  Nintud  were  imitated  in  later  times  in 
Akkad  and  located  on  the  Tigris  where  Opis  survived  into  Greek 
times  (atmi)  and  Kel  seems  to  have  become  confused  in  writing 
with  Ki§  a  famous  city  near  Babylon.  At  Opis  in  Akkad  a  male 
satellite  Igi-du  was  associated  with  the  mother  goddess  and  we 

'  Also  Opis  was  sometimes  called  Kei.  see  CT.  i6,  36,  3,  ki-e-U,  gloss  on  the  ideogram  (or 
Opis. 

•  For  Ninharsag  at  Ke!,  see  also  SAK.  ^XVllj  6.  Another  title  of  the  goddess  at  Kei  is 
Ninmah,  SAK.  3376.  > 

'  Here  the  god  of  Opis  is  give;i  as  i^du,  a  form  of  Nergai.  in  this  late  text  Opis  on  the 
Tigris  at  Seleuda  is  probably  intended.  The  southern  Ke!!  and  Opis  were  imitated  in  Akkad, 
at  any  rate  in  later  times,  and  Kei  was  apparently  confused  with  Ki!  which  gave  rise  to  a  second 
KiS  in  Akkad.  The  ancient  and  historical  Ki!  at  Oheimer  on  the  canal  of  the  Euphrates  should 
not  be  confused  with  Ki!  corruption  for  the  new  Ke!  near  Seleucia. 


,,  Google 


312  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

may  be  safe  in  assuming  that  he  was  borrowed  from  the  original 
southern  cult.'  Of  the  names  Ninharsag,  Aruru,  Nintud, 
Ninmah,  Innini  of  Hallab,  we  are  not  certain  which  one  applied 
especially  to  Ke§  and  Opis.  In  any  case  the  liturgy  which  we 
are  about  to  discuss  had  some  special  name  for  the  goddess  here. 
In  a  refrain  which  recurs  at  the  end  of  each  melody  the  psalmists 
say  that  the  god  of  Ke5,  that  is  probably  Igidu,*  was  made  like 
AiSirgi,  or  Ninurta,  and  that  its  goddess  was  made  like  Nintud, 
hence  the  special  name  of  the  mother  goddess  in  this  liturgy 
cannot  have  been  Nintud. 

So  far  as  the  text  of  this  important  liturgy  in  eight  melodies 
can  be  established,  it  leads  to  the  inference  that,  like  all  other 
Sumerian  choral  compositions,  the  subject  is  the  rehearsal  of 
sorrows  which  befell  a  city  and  its  temple.  Here  the  glories  of 
Ke§,  its  temple  and  its  gods  are  recorded  in  choral  song,  and  the 
woes  of  this  city  are  referred  to  as  symbolic  of  all  human  mis- 
fortunes. The  name  of  the  temple  has  not  been  preserved  in 
the  text.  But  we  know  from  other  liturgies  that  the  temple  in 
KeS  bore  the  name  UrSabba.'  The  queen  of  the  temple  UrSabba 
is  called  the  mother  of  Negun,  also  a  title  of  Ninurta  in  Elam.* 
The  close  connection  between  the  goddess  of  Ke§  and  Ninlil 
is  again  revealed,  for  Negun  is  the  son  of  Ninlil  in  the  theological 
lists,  CT.  24,  26, 1 1 2.  Therefore  at  Ke5  we  have  a  reflection  of  the 
Innini-Tammuz  cult  or  the  worship  of  mother  and  son,  mother 
goddess  Ninlil  or  Ninharsag,  and  Igidu  or  Negun.' 

'  The  god  tgt-du  of  Kei  is  identified  with  Ninurta  as  were  most  of  ihe  male  satellires  of  the 
mother  goddesses  in  various  cities.  CT.  35,  24  K.  8119,  17  +  K.  7620,  18,  "igi-du^  "Nm-urUi. 
According  to  CT.  15,  13,  17  it  is  one  of  the  titles  of  Ninurta  in  Elam.  But  in  CT.  24,  )6,  51  'igi- 
du  is  a  form  of  Nergal,  and  in  the  omen  text,  Boissier,  DA.  238,  10  he  is  explained  as 
''Meslamoea,  a  form  of  Nergal. 

'Or  perhaps  Negun,     See  below. 

•  BL.  71,  14.     Here  KeS  or  Kisa  is  written  with  the  ideogram  for  Opis. 

<CT,  15,  11.33,     SeeSBP.  156,39. 

»SAK.  118XXVEI  2. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  3I} 

KeS  and  Opis  must  have  been  closely  associated  with  both 
Erech  and  Suruppak,  and  of  traditional  veneration  in  Sumer. 
K^  is  mentioned  in  a  list  with  Ur,  Kullab  (part  of  Erech)  and 
Suruppak,  Smith,  Miscellaneous  Texts  26,  5.  Gudea  speaks  of 
a  part  of  the  temple  in  Lagash  which  was  pure  as  Ke§  and  Aratta 
(i.  e.  Suruppak).^  The  various  mother  goddesses  of  Eridu, 
Kullab,  K^li,  Laga$  and  Suruppak  are  invoked  in  an  incantation, 
CT.  16,  36,  1-9.  The  first  melody  of  the  Ashmolean  Prism 
contains  a  reference  to  the  horse  of  Suruppak. 

The  textual  history  of  this  liturgy  is  interesting.  The 
major  text  is  written  upon  a  four-sided  prism  now  in  the 
Ashmolean  Museum  of  Oxford.  The  object  is  eight  inches  high, 
four  inches  wide  on  each  surface  and  is  pierced  from  top  to 
bottom  at  the  center  by  a  small  hole,  so  that  the  liturgy  could 
be  turned  on  a  spindle.  The  writer  published  a  copy  of  this 
prism  or  prayer  wheel  in  his  Babylonian  Liturgies.  The  eluci- 
dation of  this  exceedingly  difficult  text  was  lightened  somewhat 
by  the  discovery  of  a  four  column  tablet  in  Constantinople, 
which  originally  contained  the  entire  text.  It  was  afterwards 
published  as  No.  23  of  my  Historical  and  Religious  Texts.  Since 
the  edition  of  these  two  sources,  the  Nippur  Collection  in  Phila- 
delphia has  been  found  to  contain  several  fragments  of  the  same 
liturgy.  A  portion  of  the  redaction  on  several  single  column 
tablets  had  been  already  published  by  Radau  in  his  Miscellaneous 
Sumerian  Texts,  No.  8  (  =  Ni.  11876),  last  tablet  of  the  series 
containing  melodies  six,  seven,  and  eight.  1  failed  to  detect  the 
connection  of  Radau's  tablet  at  the  time  of  the  first  edition  but 
referred  to  it  with  a  rendering  in  my  Epic  0/  Paradise,  p.  19. 

'  A  temple  i-aa-^a-iar  is  assigned  to  Opis  in  Poebel,  PBS.  V  157,  8  and  Zimmekn,  KL. 
199  Rev.  I  37  (here  without  I).  This  temple  can  hardly  be  the  one  which  fonns  the  subject 
of  the  liturgy  on  the  Ashmolean  Prism. 


,,  Google 


314  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

Another  tablet,  also  from  a  single  column  tablet  redaction  at 
Nippur,  has  been  recovered  in  Philadelphia,  Ni.  8584.'  This 
text  utilized  here  in  transcription  contains  a  section  marked 
number  4  on  that  tablet  but  all  the  other  sources  omit  it. 
Hence  this  redaction  probably  contained  nine  melodies. 
The  new  melody  has  been  inserted  between  melodies  three 
and  four  of  the  standard  text.  If  evidence  did  not  point 
otherwise  the  editor  would  have  supposed  that  Ni.  8384 
and  [1876  belonged  to  the  same  tablet.  But  Ni.  8384  has 
melodies  four,  five  and  six  of  its  redaction  with  the  catch- 
line  of  the  next  or  its  seventh  melody  which  partly  duplicates 
the  Radau  tablet.  Moreover,  these  two  tablets  have  not 
the  same  handwriting  and  differ  in  color  and  texture  of  the 
clay.  Finally  a  small  fragment,  Ni.  14031,  contains  the  end  of 
the  second  melody  and  the  beginning  of  the  third  on  its  obverse. 
The  reverse  contains  the  end  of  the  sixth  melody.  This  small 
tablet  undoubtedly  belongs  to  the  four  column  tablet  in  Con- 
stantinople. The  two  fragments  became  separated  by  chance 
when  the  Nippur  Collection  was  divided  between  Philadelphia 
and  the  Mus^  Imperial  of  Turkey.  Ni.  14031  will  be  found  in 
my  Sumerian  Liturgical  Texts,  No.  22. 

Under  ordinary  circumstances  a  text  for  which  so  many 
duplicates  exist  should  have  yielded  better  results  than  1  have 
been  able  to  produce.  But  the  contents  are  still  obscure  owing 
largely  to  the  bad  condition  of  the  prism.  My  first  rendering 
of  the  interesting  refrain  in  which  I  saw  a  reference  to  the  creation 
of  man  and  woman  was  apparently  erroneous.  The  refrain 
refers  rather  to  the  creation  of  the  mother  goddess  of  KeS  and 
to  her  giving  birth  to  her  son  Negun.* 

'  PublMhed  by  Barton,  MitctUaiwmf  Rttigiout  Texts. 

*  A  new  co^  of  the  Ashmolean  Prism  is  published  in  the  fUmu  i'  Aityruhpt,  Vol.  XVI. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 

Col.  I     (Lines  i  -  22  defaced) 


23.  [i  lu]U(ki)'dug-ga  du-a 

24.  {ii?)]iN.i/AR-(ki)-dug-gudu-a 

25.  [i....]  nun-gim  an-na  dirig-ga 

26.  [/ ]  ajag-gim  ?  -51  ri-a 

27.  [fl  an~na-gim  mfif  kur-kiir-ra 

28.  [^ . . . .  ]  luT-gim  ki-a-ta  sur-sur-ra 

29.  [i -]giftt  muT-du  nitid^gim 

g&rtmn-d? 

30.  [f 1    bi-4a   lipil   ktdav^^na 

31.  [^ I    hi-ta   lid   Ki-m-gi-ra 

32.  [i ]    ib-gal    an-e-ri^    ui-sa 

33.  [i \-da-gal     an-e*     uhsa 

34.  [/ }     gal     an-e     uUsa 

35.  [S- ]     -«tj     [an~e]   ui-sa 


23.  [Temple]  in  holy  KeS  builded. 

24.  ITempIe(P)]  in  holy  EN-ljAR 

builded. 

25.  [Temple]    like nun,    like 

heaven  exceeding  all.* 

26.  [Temple]  like  the  pure 

clothed  in 

27.  [Temple]  like  heaven  the  illumi- 

nation of  the  lands. 

28.  [Temple)  like tur  in  the 

earth  founded. 

29.  [Temple]  like ....  roaring,  like  a 

young  bull  bellowing. 

30.  [Temple]  in  whose the  hearts 

of  the  creatures  of  the  Land 

31.  [Temple]  in  whose the  soul 

of  life  of  Sumer 

32.  [Temple],  great IB,  attain- 

ing unto  heaven. 

33.  [Temple], great..  ..da, attaining 

unto  heaven. 

34.  [Temple],  great attaining 

unto  heaven. 

3  5 .  [Temple ],  attaining  unto 

heaven. 


Col.  n 


I dw-jfcj., 

2 afcfM.. . 

3.  f  an-nii?)  iu-{ 


] 


I heaven  and  earth. 

2 of  the  nether-sea. . 

3.  Temple  which  Anu 


'  Cf.  BA.  V  707,  7. 

•  Probably  for  pBf-N/WD^-M™,  mtm. 

•  Vif.  na. 

'  Some  verb  seems  to  be  missing  bere.    The  conitniction  is  obscure 

•  So  the  prism. 
•Var.fM. 


y  Google 


3i6 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


.  •'En-lil-li  jag-U 

,  ama  'Nin-tud  ei-[baT-kin J 

.  i  Kel-ki na 

.  &N-ljAR-{kiy-gim  rib-ba*  galu 
ii-in-[ga-an-tiim-mu] 

.  ur-sai-bi   ^-Ji-hr-ii-iim  rib-ba 
ama  ii-in-ga-an^-u-tud 

.  nin-bi    ''Nin-tud-gim    rib-ba-ra 
a-ba*  er-mu-ni-in-dtii 


4.  Enlil  above  all 

5.  The  mother,  Nintud  oracles .... 

6.  Temple  in  Kei 

7.  Like  Ehl-yAR  it  has  been  made 

surpassing;    verily  man  has 
brought  solicitude  for  it.* 

8.  Its  hero  like  ASSirgi  has  been 

9.  made  surpassing;  themother* 
verily  has  borne  him. 

10.  Its  lady  like  Nintud  has  been 
made  surpassing.  And  then 
wailing  began. 


kam-{ma-dm\ 


II.  It  is  the  second  song. 


.  i  an-l&  iud-da  ki-iii. 

.  i  flH-Iii Ai-Jii. .  .. 

.  i  an-iH  sik^*  ki-iii  udu'[gim . 


I 


12,  Temple,  in  heaven  resplendent, 

in  earth 

13.  Temple,    in    heaven ,    in 

earth 

[4.  Temple,  in  heaven  {like)  a  wild 
goat,  on  earth  like  a  sheep. . 


>5- 


'  a»-iu ki-i&  d4r'[baT'gim         15.  Temple,  in  heaven  (/i)t«) in 


16,  i  an-lu. 


1 


, .  gim ....  Ai'-M  ddr- 

bar-gim 

17.  i   an-hi   mui-gim    stg-ga   ki-iu 
babbar-gim  ja-e  la^-[lai?] 


earth  like  a  roe. . 

16.  Temple,  in  heaven  like 

in  earth  like  a  roe 

17.  Temple,  in  heaven  like  a  dragon 
gleaming,  on  earth  like  the 

sunlight  thou  shinest. 

'  Variant  Constpte.  omits  *i. 

*Cf.  ki-iim  nb-ba=-ltima  irfitim  Wuiat,  Deliiisch,  AL*  1)4.  5.  K^L  [ri-ib)~ilUuhii. 
Chicago  Syllabar  387:  tib  —  iuliikiu.CT.  19,  11,  12;  nam-kalag-ga-tiinli-ia—ilatiiiiissuililttltat, 
IV  Raw.  na  48;  ana-[im  ki-fim  rib-ba-!u-ru  =  la  kiitm  iaml  u  itsitim  ItUugata,  SBP,  150,  6. 
Sm  also  Ebelinc,  KTA.  33.  5,  tib-ba  —  'iu-tu-lfu. 

*  The  meaning  h  obscure.  For  the  suggested  rendering  cf .  en  mt-a  Hm-ma,  the  lord  who 
cares  for  the  decrees,  SA  K.  304,  6, 

•  For  this  emphatic  verbal  prefix  cf.  Delitisch,  AL',  [34,  5;  Zimmern,  KL.  68  Rev.  34. 

•  I.  e.  Nintud.  For  umtnit  in  the  sense  of  "mother  goddess"  note  CT.  16,  36,  1-9  where 
the  various  mothers  of  Eridu.  Kuliab,  Kei,  Lagash  and  Suruppak  are  invoked.  The  reference  here 
is  undoubtedly  to  Ninlil  as  the  mother  of  Negun,  SBP.  1  j6,  39. 

•fl-iii=4'*fl,  and  then.  The  same  phrase  in  BE.  3],  i,  7  and  forafta,  see  especially  Sum.  Cr. 
S34[.    ti-duli)  probably  variant  o!  tr-du  —  damJmu. 

'Ni.  1403 1  in  PBS.  X  No,  33  hasas  the  verb  the  sign  ^h;  written  five  times,  as  also  the  prism. 

*  Restored  from  the  variant  Cstple,  Rev.  I  10. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 


317 


18.  i   an-m    babbar-gim    i-a    ki-Ut 

'Nanttar-gim 

19.  i  att-H  kiiT'Ta  ki-lu  idim-ma 

30.  i  an'ki  3  gu-ma-bi  na-nam 

31.  ^N-ljAR-{ki)  gim  hb-ba  gain 

ii-in-ga-an-t&m-mu 

22.  ur-sag-^i  *Ai-iir-gi-gim  rib-ba- 

M 

23.  [ama]  h-in-ga-an-u-tud 

24.  [mn-bi\   'Nin-tud-gim  rib-ba-ra 

a-ba  efmu-ni-in-dui 


18.  Temple,  in  heaven  like  the  sun 

arising,  in  earth  tike  the  new 
moon 

19.  Temple,  in  heaven  shining,'  on 

earth  loud  crying.* 

20.  Of  the  temple  of  heaven  and 

earth  three  are  its  attendants. 

2 1 .  Like  Ehl-yAR  it  has  been  made 

surpassing;    verily  man  has 
brought  solicitude  for  it. 

22.  Its  hero  like  ASSirgi  has  been 

made  surpassing;  the  mother 

23.  verily  has  borne  him. 

24.  Its  lady  like  Nintud  has  been 

made  surpassing.    And  then 
wailing  began. 


25-  ll^l    ykam-fna-lAm] 


25.  It  is  the  third  section. 


8384. 


1.  [i-. 


.]  nl'gal-ar  i 


2.  [i ]-gal    ^En-lil-li    nam- 

ma-ni  gal  tar-ri 

3.  [i]d-^un-gdl*A-nun-ge-nekaIam 

sjgi{?)'  Uim(?)-mu 

4.  i  ki-diir  im-ditb-bu*  dingir  gal- 

gal-e-ne 

5.  i an-ki-bi-da gii-^ar-bi  ni'iarme 

el  iu^ba-e-lag 


6,  i  kalam  ki-gar-ra  jag-gar-ra  ui- 


1 .  [Temple )     in     splendor 

blazing,  which  Anu  with  a 
far-famed  name  has  named. 

2.  ITemple I  great,  whose  fate 

Enlil  has  grandly  decreed. 

3.  [Temple] oftheAnunnaki, 

in  the  Land  starlike  gleaming. 

4.  Temple,  peaceful  dwelling  place 

of  the  great  gods. 

5.  Oh    temple    whose    design    in 

heaven  and  earth  has  been 
planned,  thou  art  possessed 
of  pure  decrees. 

6.  Temple  erected  in  the  Land, 

where  stand  the  chapels  of  the 


'  So?  kur  =  nap3tu,  better  than  my  former  rendering  of  Ihis  passage. 

^idim  =  iii6,  nadaru  (cf,  Thompson,  R«^iirij  83, 6  with  [08,  5),  refers  to  the  rumbling  of  the 
great  gates  of  the  temple, 

'Br.  1729?    Cf.  R{ji-iO-*fl**oh(.  CT.  18.  49,  4. 
'  Same  phrase  in  CiAV,  Misctl.  31,  33. 


,,  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


7.  i-kttr  ic'gdl  ka-jal  ud-^al-^aUli 


8,  i  ''Nin-iar-sag-gi  jt-kalam-ma 
ki-bi-H  gar 


9.  i~iar-sag'gal    iu4u^'ia    t&m-ma 
nig-nam-ma-ni  ni'-kHr 


10.  i da-nu  ka-di-bar  nu-g^-gd 

11.  i kalam-dagal-M    Id-a 


12.  [i\  kalam  i&r  u-lud  numun  giU 
isimu  tuk-tuk 


13.  [i]  lugalH-^ud nam kalamr-pta  tar- 


14.  [i]  bdr-bdr  kar  su-hitTird&r-bi  ag-di 

1 5.  EN-l;f/4R-{ki)-gim   rib-ha   gain 

U-in-ga-an-ium-mu 

16.  uT-iOg-^i   ^' Al-lir-gi-gim   rib-ha 

ama  U-in-ga-dm-it-tvd 

17.  «i«-fr(    ^'Nin-tttd-gim    rib-ba-ra 

a-ba  er-mu-ni-in-dui 


Mountain  house,  radiant  with 
abundance  and  festivity. 

Temple  in  whose  place  Ninhar- 
sag  has  instituted  the  breath 
of  life  of  Sumer, 

Great  mountain  house,  made 
worthy  of  the  rituals  of  puri- 
fication, of  its  possessions 
nought  changes. 

Temple ceases  not  to 

render  decision. 

Temple unto  the  wide 

Land  bearing. 

[Temple]  causing  the  multitudes 
of  the  Land  to  produce  off- 
spring, causing  the  seed  to 
send  forth  sprouts. 

Temple  that  gives  birth  to  king, 
decreeing  the  fate  of  the 
Land. 

Like  ^hl-ljAR  it  has  been  made 
surpassing;  verily  man  has 
wrought  solicitude  for  it. 

Its  hero  like  ASSirgi  has  been 
made  surpassing;  the  mother 
verily  has  borne  him. 

Its  Udy  like  Nintud  has  been 
made  surpassing.  And  then 
wailing  began. 


18.  [^    4}-kam-ma'4m 


18.  It  is  the  fourth  section. 


I.  ni'-jbiM.'  PoEBiL.  PBS.  V  36.  i 


,y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN  UTURCIES  AND  PSALMS 


ASHMOLEAN    PrISM,    COL.    11 


26.  [uTuy-in-ga-dm       urur-in-ga-Am 

iag-bi  a-ba  o-mu-^n'^* 

37.  i  Kei-ki  uru-in-ga-dm  Jag-bt  a- 

ba  a-miMtn-ju 

28.  Sag-bi-a  ur-sag  ur-sag-e-w   si- 

mu-un-si-di-€-ne 

29.  ei-bar-^jn-diig-ga  iu-gal  tnu-un- 

30.  i-e    gud-udu*-dam    gud-drnnma- 

guT-Ti{7)-en 

3 1 .  ?-e  tum-ma-dm  luj-lui- .... 

32.  i-e   gud-^dr-ra-dm^   al-diig-lga?] 

33.  i-e   udu-idr-ra-dm    al-diig-lga?] 

34.  gii-KU-LIL[?)'ne*  gH-LIL-ma- 

dm  gdl-li 

35.  gil-KU-da' ^r 


26.  It  is  a  city,  it  is  a  city!     Its 

secrets  who  shall  understand? 

27.  The  temple  of  Ke5  is  a  city! 

Its  secrets  who  shall  under- 
stand? 

28.  Within  it  the  heroic  ones  admin- 

istrate. 

29.  The  oracles  proclaimed  grandly 

it  executes. 
30. 

31- 
33. 
33- 


Col. 

2.  *"A-TU-GAB-LI&-dam    an-da- 

PI-PI-SAL(?) 

3.  ^afsag-da   md-a*  an~da-sig-slg- 

[ia-dm?\ 

4.  EhI-ljAR-{ki)-gim    rib-ba    galu 

ii-in-ga^m-mu 

5.  UT-sag-bi  *'Al-liT-gi-gifn    rib-ba 

ama  ii-in-ga-a?t-ii-iud 


.  Like  EN-HAR  it  has  been  made 
surpassing;  verily  maji  has 
wrought  solicitude  for  it. 

.  Its  hero  like  ASSirgj  has  been 
made  surpassing;  the  mother 
verily  has  borne  him. 


■  So  on  Var.  Cstple,  II  6. 

'  First  example  of  Ihe  verb  ^  strengthened  by  augment  a;  cf.  a-ru,  a-til  in  BabylomMa  1 1  96. 

'Cf.  Godea,  Cyl.  A  10,  18, 

'  Semitic  jftiu?    Cf,  Ebeiihg,  KTA.  No.  4  Rev.  13. 

'  Var.  Cstple.  an. 

•  Read  «/-»«?    Ni,  8384  ge(,?)-i-tu. 

'  Ni.  8384  Jam. 

•So  on  8384. 


y  Google 


320  UNIVERSITY   MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

6.  nin-bi^Nin-tud-gimriMa-raa'  6.   Its  lady  like  Nintud  has  been 

ba  er  mu-ni-in-du^  made  surpassing.     And  then 

wailing  began. 

7.  [gH'  4-kam-ma-dm  7,  Section  four'  it  is. 

8 8 

gel                                                1  9- 

10.  H    ]-lanil    1 1«*  1     \ur[        ]  10. 

11.  iag-bi-a  uT-sag  ur-sag-e-fu  si-mu-  11.  Within  it  the  heroic  ones  admin- 

un-si-di-e-ne  istrate. 

12.  'Nin-iar-sag-gi    ufumgal-dm  12,  Nintjarsag/)/flt:<(/it  in  the  bosom 

iag-ki  im-l  ]  of  the  earth  like  a  python. 

13.  ''Nin-tud  ama-gal-la  tud-iud mu'         13.  Nintud  the  great  mother 

"""■        ' 

14.  'Suh-pa-i-a  pa-U-si-ge  nam-ett'  14.  ^ulpae  the  priest  king  lordship 

na  mu  [  ]  

1 5.  ^'Ahlir-gi*  ur-sag-g^    AB^-mu-         1 5,  ASIirgi,  the  champion 

[ I 

16.  ^'Urumai  Ugtr-gd-dm*  eiin-nd'         16.  UrumaS    great    prince   in    the 

an'  mu-da-an'[ )  (heavenly)  plain  has 

17.  i-e  sikka  lu-lim^  gii-dm-ma-gur-         17.  The  temple  assembles  the  rams 

■  ri*  and  bucks. 

18.  £N-fjAR-{ki)-gim   rib-ha   galu         18.  Like  EN-HAR  it  has  been  made 

ii-in-ga-an-tHm-mu  surpassing;    verily  man  has 

wrought  solicitude  for  it. 
rg.  ur-sag-ii  ''Ai-iir-gi"'-gim  rib-ba  19.  Its  hero  like  ASSirgi  has  been 

made  surpassing;  the  mother 
20.  ama  U-in-ga-a-an-ii-tud         20.       verily  has  borne  him. 

■  Var.  Cstple.  f.     See  below  line  31  and  BL.  8811.4. 

>  Fifth  seclion  on  Ni.  8)84. 

'  First  sign  on  Ni  8)84  Rev.  1. 
*Ni.8}84gl, 

>  Same  sign  on  Var.  Cstple.    But  Ni.  8)84  has  a  sign  apparently  related  to  the  difficult  sign 
which  I  assimilated  to  Br.  4930  in  AJSL.  a,  48.     The  sign  on  Ni.  8384  recurs  in  Zchmern,  KL. 

'  Var,  Ni.  8384  (al-e;  Var.  Cstple.  gal-la.    According  10  CT,  14.  10,  8  the  throne  bearer  of 
Enlii,  but  in  34.  x6.  [24  a  ligir-fal  in  the  attendance  of  the  mother  goddess. 
'  Ni.  8384  edin-na:  Vat.  Cstple.  edin. 
'  Both  variants  add  r. 

•Var.  of  gii-gar  =  ptiiiuni.     See  BL.  10,  jo. 
"  Vars.  omit  gini. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


31.  nin-bi    *Nin-iud-gim   rib-ia-ra^ 
a-ba  er-mu-ni-in-du^ 


21.  Its  lady  like  Nintud  has  been 
made  surpassing.  And  then 
wailing  began. 


22.  i  ykam-ma-dm 


22.  It  is  the  fifth' section. 


23.  i  ud-gitn  ki-gal-la  gub-ba 

24.  am-la^-la^-gitn  edintta  sug-sug- 

25.  [  ]  e  gar-ra  t  [              ] 

26.  [  \-bi-ia  [  ] 

27.  \  -\ta\  \ 
28-30. 

31.  [  \ra{                       ] 

32.  [  \  gar  nul               ] 

33.  [  )  an-l&r  ki-iar 

34.  [  ]bi   la-ia-ma   ki-ui-sa 

35.  [  ]  na-ra-ah  Uri-(ki)-ka 

kei-du 

36.  £N-fjAR-(ki)-gim  rib-ba*  galu 

ii-in-ga-an-tum-m  u 


23.  The  temple  like  the  sun  on  the 

vast  foundation  stands. 

24.  Like  a  white  bull  on  the  land- 

scape it  reposes. 
25 
26. 
27. 

(28-30  illegible  or  lost  on  all  the 
variants.') 


34. 
35. 

36.  Like  EN-HAR  it  has  been  made 
surpassing;  verily  man  has 
brought  solicitude  for  it. 


Col.  IV 

I,  ur-sag'bi   ''Ai-hr-gUgim  rib-ba-  i. 


2.  ama-a^  H-in-ga-art-Ur-tud 

3.  nin-bi  ^Nin-tud-gim  rib-ba-ra  a- 

ba  er-mur-ni-in-dug 

4.  i*    S-kam-ma    dm 


1.  Its  hero  like  AlSirgi  has  been 

made  surpassing;  the  mother 

2.  verily  has  borne  him. 

3.  Its  lady  like  Nintud  has  been 

made  surpassing.    And  then 
wailing  began, 

4.  It  is  the  sixth  section. 


'Ni,8j84  omits  fj. 
» Sixth  on  Ni.  8)84. 
•Lines  J9-1V4are  f 
*Firsl  signs  on  Rad« 

•  So  Ni.  1 1876. 

*  So  apparently  Ni.  t 


rtialiy  restored  from  Ni.  14O' 

I,  Afij<:rf.  No.  8-Ni.  11876. 


y  Google 


322  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM- 

5.  i-ajag  LU-bi  i^ 

6.  i-KeHiii)-azag  LU-bii' 

7.  i-a  en-bi  ^■A-nun-na-me-el 

8.  nu^i-hi  dim-i-an-na-me-e? 

9.  kisal-e   lagal^mr-ra-dm   mu-un- 

ittb 

10.  en-dug  lag  t&g-M  nam-mi-in-lal 

11.  Ortu-e  umun  '''En-ki  NE-GAB 

<"-t    I 

12.  tu-t  a-fir(P)*-a*  »mw-    e-    gub 

13.  Ud  a-iag-ga   kt-a^ag-ga-dm  mi- 


14.  en 

I 

■5-[ 

■6.  [ 

[ 

■7.[ 

1 


a&itd/  ubar-e-ne  M  )ti- 

dm-ma-gdl'li-ei 

]iel-a-ni  SU-mu-un- 

slg-gi-ne' 

]  W/y  t;«C  RU  miMii- 

]-ma-|e  ^i>ga'  mt-ni- 

ib-ja 

]  d-lal-e  gii-^u  mi-ni-ib- 

bi 

\?-ra-ge  siii-sui  mi-ni- 

ib-ja 

]  dug-gi  sj-ia-ba-ni-ib 

di 


-BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

5.  The  sacred  temple  whose  (P)  is 

6.  The  sacred  temple  of  Ke3  whose 

?  is 

7.  In  the  temple  whose  high  priests 

are  the  Anunnaki, 

8.  Whose  sacrificial  priests  are  the 

dim  of  Eanna, 

9.  The  aisle treads. 

10.  (The  temple)  unto  which  a  be- 

neficent    lord     has    shown 
solicitude 

1 1 .  The  libator(P),  lord  Enki 

1 2.  The  baptizer treads  thee. 

13. 

14.  The  lord  Isimu,  the  councilor 


15. 

16 in  sorrow  abounds. 

the  boufid  cry  like  birds 

17 in  desolation  abounds. 

may  direct  aright.' 


'  Text  cenain.    Not  NUN. 

•  Var.  Otple.  en. 

'  Radau's  copy  has  If  IN. 
'Var.j-j«. 

•  Ni.  1 1876  has  U;-^  ki-ajat-ga  nam-mi-in-Ki!} 

'  N[.  1 1876  omits  t.  This  text  proves  that  in  the  ideogram  Br.  1203  the  gloss  I'li'mw  belongs 
properly  to  the  first  two  signs  only  and  that  the  original  reading  was  isirnK-ahkal.  See  especially 
CT.  13,  16,  34  {i-si-mu)  =  PAP-iig  =  usm&.  In  the  later  period  ab\alw3.i  apparently  not  pro- 
nounced and  the  whole  ideogram  was  rendered  by  tfiMu. 

'  This  line  is  not  on  the  prism, 

•  Ni.  1 1876  ga-a-en.     Cslple.  Var.  gig  simply. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LtTURClES  AND   PSALMS 


i8.  t  ]  ka-jal-bi         al-dug 

19.  [  -l^MJ  ka-ial-bi  al-dug 

20.  [  ]-ial-bi  a-mu-un-KU 

21.  [  ]-}ar-sag-i4  nin-bi  [?-] 

bi  dm-mu-un-KUi?) 

22.  it^-ljAR-iki)-gim   rib-ba   galu 

ii-in-ga-an-tHm-mu 

23.  ur-sag-bi   ''/ii-hr-gi-gim  rib-ba 

ama  H-in-ga-an-it-iud 

24.  nin-bi    ''■Nin-itid-gim    rib-ba-ra 

a-ba  er-mu-ni-in-du^ 


t8.  Of its  joy  was  sweet, 

19.  Of its  joy  was  sweet. 


22.  Like  EN-HAR  it  has  been  made 

surpassing;    verily  man  has 
brought  sohcitude  for  it. 

23.  Its  hero  like  ASSirgi  has  been 

made  surpassing;   verily  the 
mother  has  borne  him. 

24.  Its  lady  Mke  Nintud  has  been 

made  surpassing.    And  then 
wailing  began. 


25-  [<{?)']  "j-kam-ma- dm 


23.  It  is  the  seventh  section. 


Third  Tablet  of  the  Series  "  The  Exalted  One 

Who  Walketh"  {e-lum  didara) 

(No.  13) 

The  series  elum  didara  is  entered  in  the  Assyrian  liturgical 
catalogue,  IV  Raw.  53a  8,  and  the  first  tablet  of  this  Enlil  liturgy 
has  been  found  in  the  Berlin  collection  and  published  by  Reis- 
NER,  SBH.  No.  25.*  The  Berlin  tablet  belongs  to  a  great 
Babylonian  temple  library  of  the  Greek  period  redacted  by  a 
family  of  liturgists  descendants  of  Sin-ibni.  A  fragment  of  the 
same  first  tablet  of  another  Babylonian  copy  has  been  found, 
BM.  81-7-27,  205.'  The  catch  line  of  tablet  two  is  lost  on 
SBH.  25  and  no  part  of  tablet  two  has  been  identified.     In  1914 

'Orjfi. 

*  1  edited  this  table)  in  SBP.  iio-ii]  where  I  erroneously  assigned  it  to  the  Enhl  series 
amt  baranara.  The  tablet  has  been  partially  restored  rrom  Meek,  No,  1 1.  The  first  two  melo- 
dies of  eiumi  didara  are  used  in  the  Enlil  liturgy  tlum  ptdiun  near  the  end  just  before  the  titular 
litany  and  have  been  re-edited  above  pp.  300-3  in  the  edition  of  the  elum  gudmn  series. 

■Meek,  No.  it  in  BA.  X  pt.  1. 


y  Google 


324  UNtVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

1  copied  BM.  78239  (  =  88-5-12,  94)  the  upper  half  of  a  large 
tablet  carrying  according  to  the  colophon  ninety-six  Sumerian 
lines.  The  number  of  lines  provided  with  an  interlinear  trans- 
lation on  this  fragment  is  only  two,  which  increases  the  actual 
number  of  lines  to  ninety-eight.  Probably  a  few  more  should 
be  added  for  Semitic  lines  on  the  lost  portion.  This  tablet, 
also  from  a  Babylonian  redaction,  belongs  to  an  edition  made 
by  another  school  of  liturgists  and  contains  tablet  three  of 
elum  didara. 

The  third  tablet  of  elum  didara  began  with  a  melody  nin-ri 
nin-ri  gA-am-me  to  the  mother  goddess  Bau  (1.  2),  who  in  line  7  is 
identified  with  NanS.  Lines  3-6  introduce  by  interpolation  other 
local  forms  of  the  mother  goddess,  as  a  concession  to  cities  whose 
liturgists  succeeded  in  inserting  these  lines  before  the  canon  of 
sacred  songs  were  closed  in  the  Isin  period.  Hence  Babylon  is 
favored  by  a  reference  to  Zarpanit  in  line  3 ;  Barsippa  by  a  refer- 
ence to  TaSmet  in  lines  4-6.  Bau  or  Gula  wails  for  Nippur  whose 
destruction  is  here  attributed  to  the  moon-god.  Sin.  The 
introduction  of  a  long  passage  to  the  moon-god  in  the  weeping 
mother  melody  of  an  Enlil  liturgy  is  unusual.  The  entire  passage 
reflects  the  phraseology  and  ideas  of  the  well-known  Sumerian 
hymn  to  the  moon-god  magur  a^ag  anna}  The  composer  desiring 
to  utilize  these  fine  lines  makes  a  setting  for  them  by  describing 
Sin  as  the  god  who  visited  Nippur  with  wrath,  regardless  of 
the  inconsistency  of  placing  such  a  passage  in  an  Enlil  song 
service  which  attributed  the  sorrows  of  Nippur  to  Enlil  himself. 

According  to  the  catch  line  of  tablet  two  of  the  Ninurta 
liturgy  gud-nim  kurra  the  third  tablet  of  that  series  began  by 
the  same  melody  as  tablet  three  of  the  elum  didara.^    It  is  prob- 

'  SB  p.  396. 
■  SB  p.  3}6. 


!:.,G00C^IC 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  325 

able  that  the  firet  melody  of  tablet  three  of  both  series  was 
identical.  Melodies  are  always  identified  by  their  first  lines  and 
when  these  agree  we  assume  that  the  entire  melodies  are 
identical.  Since  the  musicians  referred  to  all  melodies  by  their 
first  lines  it  was  manifestly  impossible  to  begin  two  different 
melodies  with  the  same  line.  But  tablet  three  of  the  weeping 
mother  liturgy  muten  nu-nunu^-gim  begins  its  first  melody'  nin- 
ri  nin-ri  git-dm,  etc.,  otherwise  both  melodies  differ  completely. 
This  is  the  first  known  of  example  of  two  different  melodies 
bearing  the  same  title.  It  is  curious  indeed  that  an  Enlil,  a 
Ninurta  and  a  mater  dolorosa  series  all  begin  their  third 
tablets  in  the  same  manner. 

The  obverse  of  BM.  78239  breaks  away  before  the  end  of 
the  melody  nin-ri  ntnri  gu-dm-me.  Here  forty-five  Sumerian 
lines  are  lost;  one  or  two  melodies  at  least  stood  in  this  break. 
For  the  last  passage  on  tablet  three,  the  scribe  borrows  the  first 
melody  of  the  Ninurta  series  gud-nim  kurra."  The  litanies  which 
begin  these  melodies  or  series  of  addresses  to  Ninurta  differ 
greatly  in  the  two  redactions.  Since  SBH.  No.  18  belongs  to  a 
Ninurta  series  the  addresses  therein  are  much  more  extensive. 
The  composer  of  the  EnHl  series  elum  didara  obviously  introduced 
this  irrelevant  melody  to  obtain  the  fine  passage  to  the  weeping 
mother,  Rev.  10-21  on  BM.  78239.  These  lines  are  lost  on  the 
Berlin  text  SBH.  No.  18.  On  the  whole  the  liturgy  elum  didara 
is  more  inconsistent  in  the  development  of  ideas  than  any  song 
service  of  which  extensive  portions  are  known.  Only  tablets 
one  and  three  are  as  yet  identified  and  neither  of  these  is  much 
more  than  half  complete. 


y  Google 


326 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


ru-4>a-tutn  {ntbatum)  ii-si-if  &U  i-ies- 
si  ina  Uil4a~ra-ti 


The  princess,  the  princess,  in 
misery  shouts  the  wailing  of 
the  city.' 


nin-ri  nin-ri  gU-dm-me  iiru  in- 

ga'dm-me  ii-U-li 
a  galan-mu  nu-nunuj-idg-ga    it 

i-^-a  i-sag-il-la*  u 

duma-sag  ^'Vraia-a  it 

dumu'sag  i-i-he-   ^A-nu-^m  it 

gatan  gU'ur-a-sig  ud-lal-a-ge  ii 

gaian-^mu  ^Na-na-a  it 


dant-^  dam-ju-M 
dumu-pt  dumu-^u-iii 
ie-ib-iu  U-ib-gt-gi 

13.  iaiar-iA  saiar-gi-gi* 


14.  si-md*  ajag  an-na  U-ir-ma-al-la 

■nt-U-na  dirig-ga-ju-di  ^a-e 
dirig-ga-iu-de 

15.  na-an-na-TU  el-lu  la  la-nu-e  e-fil 

ra-ma-ni-iu  ina  lu-tu-TU-ti-ka 
at-tam 


2.  How  long  my  queen,  the  pious 

woman,  in  misery?' 

3.  The  bride  of  Esagila  in  misery? 

4.  First  born  daughter  of  Urasha 

in  misery? 

5.  Firstborndaughterofthetemple 

Ibe-Anum  in  misery? 

6.  The  obedient  queen,  she  the . . 

. ,  ...  in  misery? 

7.  My  queen  Nana  in  misery? 

8.  (How  long)  shall  thy  temple  for 

thy  temple  in  misery  be? 

9.  Thycityforthycityinmiserybe? 

10.  Thy  wives   for  thy  wives  in 

misery  be? 

1 1 .  Thy  sons  for  thy  sons  in  misery 

be? 

12.  (How  long)  for  the  brick  walls 

shall  the  brick  walls  restored 
wail? 

I}.  For  the  dust  shall  the  restored 
dust  wail? 

14.  Bright  horned  light  of  heaven 
mighty  of  itself,  in  thy  excel- 
lence, yea  thou  in  thy  excel- 
lence. 


'  The  first  line,  togelher  with  its  Semitic  translation,  is  identical  wilh  the  first  line  of  the  third 
tablet  of  the  series  muUn  nu-nunuj-gim,  see  SBP.  140.    Otherwise  the  melodies  differ. 

*  The  refrain  1W1-/1  apparently  provides  an  incomplete  sentence. 

•  Cf.  5BH.  No.  a4,  I),  there  a  title  of  the  river  goddess. 

•Lines  io-[)  form  a  duplicate  of  SBH.  No.  i;,  Rev.  i-j-SBP.  133. 

'si-mi,  literally  karnSHu,  the  horned,  referring  to  Ihe  new-moon.  The  variant  SBP.  196,  1 
has  md-g&r,  the  crescent  boat.  Undoubtedly  mA-gur  should  be  rendered  by  nannam  in  this 
passage. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


327 


16.  a-a  *'Nannar  si-mS  ajag  an-na 
le-ir-ma-al-'a  ni-ie-na 


17.  a-a  *'Nannar  umun-e  an-ldr 

18.  umun  'Nannar  umun  ^Ai-im- 

iir-ra} 

19.  umun  gu-la  galu  nin-iul-ma-al- 

la  uni-pi  ni-te-en-na  ie-ir-ma- 
al-la  nUte-entta 

20.  uru-ju  NippuT-{ki)  galu  nin-^l- 

ma-al-la  uru-^u 

2t.  nigin  kalam-ma-jH  d-si  ma-ni- 

ib-bi 

32.  {uru?]  kalam-ma-da-fu  gig-ga-an- 

na-ag-ei 

23.  [  ]tu-g^  (galu)  a-ba  an- 

l&t-ei 

24.  [  ]v*-i^  pag-dt^  ma-an- 

U-lal-la-ai^yy-el 

25 lu  ba-ni-ib-gul 

26 r«  ba-mi-ib-slg-sfg 

27 yUL-A5-A  (gloss)  e-ga 

ib... 

28 A-AN  yUL..,e-gaib,... 

29 


16.  O  father  Nannar  bright  homed 

light  of  heaven,  mighty  of 
itself,  (in  thy  excellence,  yea 
thou  in  thy  excellence), 

17.  Father  Nannar,  lord  of  all  the 

heavens, 

18.  Lord  Nannar  lord  of  the  rising 

light, 

19.  Great   lord,   who  himself  has 

wrought  evil  to  thy  city,' 
mighty  of  himself, 

20.  As  for  thy  city  Nippur,  he  who 

has  wrought  evil  to  thy  city, 

21.  AH  thy  Land  

22.  Thy  city  and  land  are  afflicted 

with  woe. 

23.  In     thy.. ..and     thy the 

scribes  are  driven  away. 

24.  In  thy and   thy the 

augurers  are  exiled. 

25.  Thy isdestroyed. 

26. 

27. 


Reverse 


.  [gu~ud  nm\  kur-ra  [mu-lu  ta-ju 
mu-un-iu] 


.  Exalted  hero  of  the  world,  doth 
any  one  comprehend  thy 
form?^ 


>Sm  BL.  p.  [)3. 

■  1.  e.  Sin  himself  is  the  author  of  Nippur's  sorrows. 

*  Glossed  ki. 

'  LMff:  transcripiion  and  interpretation  uncertain. 

'Hereby  Is  established  the  reading  ^U}-i/d  =  m(Ui(,  Jwfrfn.     Probably  a  kind  of  augurer. 

•  Probably  taulological  writing  for /j/ij^  =  iJiiH«i>(,  Voc.  Hittite75o9. 

'  Cf  the  first  melody  of  the  Ninurta  series  (H-ud  nim  kar-ra:  see  SBP.  a36;   BL.  No.  9  and 
SBH.  40. 


y  Google 


328 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


[kar-Ta-\du  ia-ku-u  ia  ma-a-tim 

kat-tuk  [man-^u  i-lam-fnad\ 

alim-ma  umun  ur-iag-gal 

UT-sag-gal  umun  si  '^Mu-ul-lil- 

U-ge 

alim-ma  abil  e-kur-ra 

ur-sag-gal      umun  i-tu-me-DU* 

umun  i-iag-mal-a  umun-e  e-i-he- 
iu-gud 
umun  sukkal-mal-di*  gal-ukkin 
''Nusku-ge 
'■Mai-lab-ba  'Lugal-gir-ra 
dug-ga-(u  mu-Iu  ia-ju  mu-un-ju 

tai-a-iu  mu-lu 

e-ne-em-iu  mu-lu 

edin-na  di-di  edin-na  ie-dm-du 

ama  galan  tin-dib-ba  edin-na 


15.  nin  galan  nigin-gar-ra  edin-na 

16.  nin  gaian  Lara-ak~(ki)-ge^  edin- 


le,  lord,  great  cham- 
,  lord,  light  of 


3.  Honored  c 

pion. 

4.  Great  champio 

Enlil. 

5.  Honored  one,  son  of  Ekur.' 

6.  Great  champion,  lord  of  Eiume> 

du. 

7.  Lord  of  ESamal),  lord  of  E-ibe- 

Sugud.^ 

8.  Lord,  great  messenger,  the  her- 

ald Nusku. 

9.  The  twin  god,  Lugalgirra.  . 

10.  As  to  thy  commands,  who  com- 

prehends thy  form? 

11.  As  to  thy  succor,  who  compre- 

hends thy  form? 

12.  As  to  thy  word,  who  compre- 

hends thy  form? 

13.  She  wanders  on  the  plain,  on 

the  plain  she  wails. 

14.  The  mother,  queen  who  gives 

life  to  the  dead,  on  the  plain 
wails. 

15.  The  queen,  lady  Nigtngar,  on 

the  plain  wails. 

16.  The  queen,  lady  of  Larak,  on 

the  plain  wails. 


>  Similar  passages  have  l-ldr-ra  (SBP.  3a6,  8;  5BH.  40,  8)  chapel  of  Ninlil  in  Ekut  (SBP. 
321  n.  7). 

*  Temple  of  Nlnurta  in  Nippur  A  syllabary  recently  published  by  Scheil  (RA.  14,  174  I.  7) 
CKplains  the  name  by  bit  gi-mir  par-fi  (ammii,  Temple  which  executes  the  totality  of  decreei. 
Note,  however,  the  epithet  li-di-ilii=hii  nil  iitt,  tlouseof  the  lifting  of  the  eyes,  SBP.  108,  11. 

'  1  n  any  case  an  epithet  of  the  temple  of  Urla  in  Dilbat,  Ihe-'^'Attum.  For  this  reading  l-ht 
see  vars.  I-hi,  Im-bi,  BL.  p.  1)4.  The  word  ihi  Is  probably  Sumerian  for  ip,  and  shows  that  the 
phonetic  rendering  i-de  is  erroneous.  The  dialectic  pronunciation  of  igi  was  ibt  and  des|Hte  the 
Semitic  variant  imbi  the  name  is  apparently  Sumerian  Ibt-Anu,  Temple  of  the  eye  of  Anu. 
Here  iu-fM  is  an  epithet  for  Anu,  i.  e.  the  lofty. 

•SeealsoSBH.  iji,46;  BL.  No.  56  Rev.  31;  Craig.  RT.  ao.  30.    This  text  has  a  variant  a 

*  Probably  part  of  the  great  city  Isin,  see  SBP.  160  n.  7. 


,,  Google 


17-   TO 

1 8.  n> 


STEPHEN   LANCDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 
i«  gaian  /-ii-m-fw-(fti)  edin-na 
■n  ama  i-dHr^-a^ag-ga  edin-na 


329 


ama  SU-dAL-BI^  edin-na 


20.  '''Ba-A  nu-numui  Hg-ga  edin-na 

21,  a    i-rab-ri-ri    umun    'Sd-kut- 

ma^-a  edin-a 


17.  The  queen,  lady  of  [sin,  on  the 

plain  wails. 
i8.  The  queen,  mother  of  the  holy 

city,  on  the  plain  wails. 

1 9.  The   queen,    the mother, 

on  the  plain  wails. 

20.  Bau,  the  pious  woman,  on  the 

plain  wails. 

21.  The    abode,    Erabriri,    of    the 

lord  Sakutmah  on  the  plain 
wails. 


22.  e-lum-e  la-iu  u-'u-a  u-'u-a 

23.  g6-dmmu-Ud^i-imduppuykam 

e-lum  di-da^a  nu  al-til 

24.  gab-ri  Bdr-sip-iki)  kimalabiri-iu 

ia-tir-ma  barim  duppu  ^'BH- 
ik-fur  mari-tu  ta  ^BtUiikun- 
ni 

25.  mar    Iddin-''Papsukkal    pa-lii 

''Nabu  ina  iar-ium  la  utieUr 
u  ina  me-riUtum  la  u-Ja-bi^ 


22.  Oh  honored  one,  the  exuberant, 

alas,  alas. 

23.  Ninety-six  is  the  number  of  its 

lines.  Third  tablet  of  Elum 
didara,  unfinished. 

24.  Copy  from  Barsippa,  according 

to  its  original,  written  and 
collated.  Tablet  of  B@lilt$ur 
son  of  Belishkunni, 

25.  son   of    Iddin-Papsukkal   wor- 

shipper of  Nebo.  In  fraud 
he  has  not  translated  it  and 
with  wilful  readings  has  he 
not  published  it. 


'  Probably  variant  oS  i-dir=itdari,  kapn,  village,  city,  Poebel,  PBS.  V  106  IV  30;  see  also 
II  Raw.  ;],  61  f.  Note  the  similar  tllle  of  the  city  of  Bau  unt-ajag-ga  in  SAK.  174;  BL.  147. 
Here  the  title  refers  to  Isin  not  Lagash. 

'  Cf.  Craic.  RT.  U  16.  18  *Ama-5U-i)AL-BI-ta. 

*Cf.  Cr.  11,  3029;  ina  iar4ula  uiltUr-fuu  ina  ttu-rii-tum  la  i-id-li,  "By  fraud  he  has  not 
translated  it  and  with  wilful  readings  has  he  not  published  it."  For  litltl»ru,  "to  translate  or 
edit  a  tablet."  see  Lehmanm,  Shamasb-sbum-uklti,  Taf.  XXXIV  [7  akkadA  ana  luUiiai,  "to 
translate  into  Akkadian,"  On  this  difficult  passage  concerning  the  education  of  Aiurbanipal 
seeSummanGrJMMdr,  p.  jandcorrectionsby  Uncnad  in  ZA.  31,41.  iluUi' probably  fomiotfJM; 
note  the  variant  u'Ubi=MiSpi. 


,,  Google 


530  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

6060    (No.   (2) 

Babylonian    Cult  Symbols 

Ni.  6060,  a  Cassite  tablet  in  four  columns,  yields  a  notable 
addition  to  the  scant  literature  we  now  possess  concerning  Baby- 
lonian mystic  symbols.  A  fragmentary  Assyrian  copy  from  the 
library  of  ASurbanipal  was  published  by  Zimmern  as  No.  27 
of  his  Ritual  Tafeln.  The  Assyrian  copy  contains  only  fifteen 
symbols  with  their  mystic  identifications,  in  Col.  II  of  the 
obverse.  The  ends  of  the  lines  of  the  right  half  of  Col.  I  are 
preserved  on  Zimmern  27,  and  these  are  all  restored  by  the  Cas- 
site original.  The  obverse  of  these  two  restored  tablets  contained 
about  sixty  symbols  with  their  divine  implications.  Most  of 
them  are  the  names  of  plants,  metals,  cult  utensils  and  sacrificial 
animals,  each  being  identified  with  a  deity.  A  tablet  in  the 
British  Museum,  dated  in  the  174th  year  of  the  Seleucid  era  or 
138  B.  C,  Spartola  Collection  1131,  published  by  Strassmaier, 
ZA.  VI  241-4,  begins  with  an  astronomical  myth  concerning  the 
summer  and  winter  solstices^  and  then  inserts  a  passage  on  the 
mystic  meanings  of  ten  symbols.  The  myth  of  the  solstices 
runs  as  follows: 

"In  the  month  Tammuz,  1  ith  day,  when  the  deities  Minitp 
and  Katuna,  daughters  of  Esagila,^  go  unto  Ezida^  and  in  the 
month  Kislev,  3d  day,  when  the  deities  Gazbaba  and  Kazalsurra, 
daughters  of  Ezida,  go  unto  Esagila^Why  do  they  go?  In  the 
month  Tammuz  the  nights  are  short.  To  lengthen  the  nights 
the  daughters  of  Esagila  go  unto  Ezida.     Ezida  is  the  house  of 

'  Only  in  a  loose  sense.  From  Tammuz  to  Kislev  is  Ihe  period  of  death,  from  Kislev  to 
Tammuz  the  period  of  revivification  of  nature.  See  on  the  nteaning  of  this  passage  KucLEit, 
Jm  Bannhreis  Bahtli  61-5. 

'Temple  of  Marduk  in  Babylon. 

'  Temple  of  Nebo  in  Barsippa. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  33I 

night.  In  the  month  Kislev,  when  the  days  are  short,  the 
daughters  of  Ezida  to  lengthen  the  days  go  unto  Esagila.  Esagila 
is  the  house  of  day."  The  tablet  then  explains  the  Sumerian 
ideogram  gubarra  =  Airat,  the  western  mother  goddess  Ashtarte, 
and  says  that  ASrat  of  Ezida  is  poverty  stricken.*  But  Airat  of 
Esagila  is  full  of  light  and  mighty.*  Some  mystic  connection 
between  Airat  or  Geitinanna,  mistress  of  letters  and  astrology,' 
scribe  of  the  lower  world,  and  the  daughters  of  night  and  day 
existed.  This  cabalistic  tablet  here  refers  to  a  mirror  which  she 
holds  in  her  hand  and  says  she  appeared  on  the  i  5th  day  to 
order  the  decisions.  The  1 5th  of  the  month  Tammuz  is  probably 
referred  to  or  the  beginning  of  the  so-called  dark  period  when  the 
days  begin  to  shorten  and  Nergal  the  blazing  sun  descends  to  the 
lower  world  to  remain. r 60  days.^  For  some  reason  ASrat,  here 
called  the  queen,^  appears  to  order  the  decisions,  probably  the 
fates  of  those  that  die.  The  phrase  "The  divine  queen  appeared" 
is  usually  said  of  the  rising  of  stars  or  astral  bodies,  but  the 
reference  here  is  wholly  obscure.  As  a  star  she  was  probably 
Virgo.  At  any  rate  some  mystic  pantomime  must  have  been 
enacted  in  the  month  of  Tammuz  in  which  the  daughters  of 
Esagila  and  Ezida  and  the  queen  recorder  of  Sheol  were  the 
principal  figures.  The  pantomime  represented  the  passing  of 
light,  the  reign  of  night  and  the  judgment  of  the  dead.  Clearly 
an  elaborate  ritual  attended  by  magic  ceremonies  characterized 
the  ceremony.     At  this  point  the  tablet  gives  a  commentary  on 

'  iaraliil*m, 

'See  Tatnmuj aud  hbtar,  p,  151.  Airat  or  (he  western  Ashtoreth  usually  had  the  title  hllit 
ftri,  "Lady  of  the  plains"  and  was  identified  with  the  Babylonian  GeStinanna  and  Nidaba. 
Hence  lBllil-]slri  is  dupSarrat  irsiUm,  scribe  of  the  lower  world,  K.B.  VI  igo,  47;  cf.  I V  R.  17  B  39. 

'See  lines  { 1-4  of  this  tablet.  Nergal  descends  into  the  earth  on  the  18th  of  Tammuz  and 
remalni  until  the  18th  of  Kislev. 


y  Google 


332  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

the  mystic  meaning  of  cult  objects  used  for  the  healing  of  the 
sick  or  the  atonement  of  a  sinner.  Obviously  some  connection 
exists  between  this  mystagogy  and  the  myth  described.  The 
commentary  is  probably  intended  to  explain  the  hidden  powers 
of  the  objects  employed  in  the  weird  ritual,  at  any  rate  the 
mystery  is  thus  explained.' 

(i)  Gypsum  isthegod  Ninurta.*  (2)  Pitch  is  the asakku-de- 
mon.'  (3)  Meal  water  (which  encloses  the  bed  of  the  sick  man)  is 
Lugalgirra  and  Meslamtaea.*  [A  string  of  wet  meal  was  laid  about 
the  bed  of  a  sick  man  or  about  any  object  to  guard  them  against 
demons.  Hence  meal  water  symbolizes  the  two  gods  who  guard 
against  demons.  See  especially  Ebeling,  KTA.  No.  60  Obv.  8 
^isurrd  talamme-Su,  "Thou  shalt  enclose  him  with  meal  water."] 

(4)  Three  meal  cakes  are  Anu,  Enlil  and  Ea.'  (5)  The  design 
which  is  drawn  before  the  bed  is  the  net  which  overwhelms  all 
evil.  (6)  The  hide  of  a  great  bull  is  Anu.  [Here  the  hide  of  the 
bull  is  the  symbol  of  the  heaven  god  as  of  Zeus  DoIJchaios  in 
Asia  Minor.] 

(7)  The  copper  gong*  is  Enlil.  But  in  our  tablet  11  13  symbol 
of  Nergal  and  in  CT.  16,  24,  25  apparently  of  Anu.  The  term 
of  comparison  in  any  case  is  noise,  bellowing. 

(8)  The  great  reed  spears  which  are  set  up  at  the  head  of  the 

'  Here  epilomized.  It  wil[  be  found  transcribed  and  Iranslaled  by  Zlmmern  in  Ms  Zum 
BabyUmiscben  NtKiabr/est,  p.  119. 

^  MAS.  See  below  Oil.  1!  15.  gypsum  U  Ninurta,  the  god  of  war,  primarily  a  god  of  light. 
Gypsum,  Sum.  im-bar,  "radiant  clay."  became  symbolic  of  Ninurta  because  of  its  light  trans- 
parent cobr. 

■  So,  because  gypsum,  lime  and  pitch  are  smeared  on  the  door  of  the  house  and  the  god  of 
light  (Ninurta)  tramples  upon  the  demon  of  darkness. 

'  Two  inferior  deities  related  to  Nergal,  god  of  the  lower  world.  Their  images  placed  at  the 
enclosure  of  a  house  prevent  the  demons,  Zimmekn.  Rl.  168,  21  f.  The  image  of  Lugalgirra 
designed  on  a  wall  prevents  the  devils,  iftid,  [66,  11.  Hebinds  theevilones,  IV  R.ai'C  111  36. 
The  two  are  placed  at  the  right  and  left  of  a  door  to  forbid  the  devils  to  enter.    Maklu  VI  114. 

*The  great  trinity;   heaven,  earth  and  sea.  ' 

'  In  any  case  a  cult  utensil  on  which  a  noise  was  made,  CT.  16, 14.  31. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN    LANGDON — SUMERIAN    LITURGIES   AND    PSALMS  333 

sick  man  are  the  seven  great  gods  sons  of  iShara.  The  seven 
sons  of  Hhara  are  unknown,  but  this  goddess  was  a  water  and 
vegetation  deity  closely  connected  with  Nidaba  goddess  of"  the 
reed.^    The  reed,  therefore,  symbolizes  her  sons. 

(9)  The  scapegoat  is  Ninamasazagga.  Here  the  scapegoat 
typifies  the  genius  of  the  flocks  who  supplies  the  goat.  See, 
however,  another  explanation  below  Obv.  II  [7. 

(10)  The  censer  is  Azagsud.  The  deity  Azagsud  in  both 
theological  and  cult  texts  is  now  male  and  now  female.  As  a 
male  deity  he  is  the  great  priest  of  Enlil,  CT.  24,  10,  12,  and 
always  a  god  of  lustration  closely  connected  with  the  fire  god 
Gibil,  Meek,  BA.  X  pt.  1  No.  24,  4.^  But  ordinarily  Azagsud  is 
a  form  of  the  grain  goddess  who  was  also  associated  with  fire  in 
the  rites  of  purification.  As  a  title  of  the  grain  goddess,  see 
CT.  24,  9,  35=23,  17;  SBP.  158,  64  y4-sug  where  Zimmern, 
KL.  II  Rev.  Ill  11  has  A^ag-sug.  She  is  frequently  associated 
with  Ninbabursildu  and  Nidaba  (the  grain  goddess)  in  rituals, 
Zimmern,  Rt.  126,  27  and  29;  138,  14,  etc.  The  censer  prob- 
ably symbolizes  both  male  and  female  asp^ts,  the  fire  that  burns 
and  the  grain  that  is  burned.  See  below  1 1  9,  where  the  censer 
is  symbol  of  Urash^  a  god  of  light. 

(11)  ThetorchisNuskuthefiregodin  theNippur  pantheon. 
Below  (II  10)  the  torch  is  Gibii,  fire  god  in  the  Eridu  pantheon. 

The  mystic  identifications  do  not  always  agree,  but  the  term 
of  comparison  can  generally  be  found  if  the  origin  and  character 
of  the  deities  are  known  and  the  nature  of  the  symbol  determined. 
Each  god  was  associated  with  an  animal  and  a  plant  and  with 
other  forms  of  nature  over  which  they  presided.  When  the  cult 
utensils  are  symbols  the  term  of  comparison  is  generally  clear. 

'  See  the  Chicago  Syllabar  ijo  where  she  is  identified  with  Nidaba. 
'Cf.  ZA.  16.  178,  27;   BA.V649,j;  SburfuWW  w. 


y  Google 


334  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 

Below  will  be  found  such  interpretations  of  these  mysteries  as 
the  condition  of  the  tablet  and  the  limits  of  our  knowledge  permit. 
Most  difficult  of  all  are  the  metal  symbols  which  begin  with 
Obv.  1  10.  Here  silver  is  heaven,  but  it  can  hardly  be  explained 
after  the  manner  of  the  same  connection  of  Zeus  Dolichalos 
with  silver  in  Kommagene.  The  cult  of  this  Asiatic  heaven 
god  is  said  to  have  been  chiefly  practiced  at  a  city  in  the  region 
of  silver  mines>  That  is  an  impossible  explanation  in  the  case 
of  Anu  whose  chief  cult  center  was  at  Erech.  The  association 
of  gold  with  Enmesharra,  here  obviously  the  earth  god,  is  com- 
pletely unintelligible.  In  Obv.  1  3 1  he  is  possibly  associated  with 
lead  or  copper  as  the  planet  Saturn.  Inlines  I  i4-i8thesymbols 
are  broken  away,  but  they  are  probably  based  upon  astronomy. 
Metals  seem  to  be  connected  with  fixed  stars  and  planets  on  the 
principle  of  color.  The  metallic  symbolism  of  the  planets  was 
well  known  to  Byzantine  writers  who  did  not  always  agree  in 
these  matters.  Their  identifications  are  certainly  a  Graeco- 
Roman  heritage  which  in  turn  repose  upon  Babylonian  tradition.* 
The  following  table  taken  from  Cook,  Zeus,  p.  626,  will  illustra.te 
Gneco-Roman  ideas  on  this  point: 

Kronos — lead  (Saturn);  Zeus — silver  (Jupiter);  Ares— iron 
(Mars);  Helios — gold  (Sun);  Aphrodite — tin  (Venus);  Hermes 
— bronze  (Mercury);  Selene — crystal  (Moon). 

Our  tablet  preserves  only  the  names  of  the  deities  at  this 

'  So  A.  B.  Cook,  Znts,  6^1.  I  would,  however,  enterlain  doubts  concerning  this  explanation 
of  silver  as  the  emblem  of  the  Asiatic  Zeus  and  of  Jupiter  Dolichenus.  The  identification  of  this 
metal  with  the  sky  god  in  Babylonia  and  Kommagene  surely  reposes  upon  a  more  subtle  idea. 
[For  the  explanation  of  silver  =  Anu  and  gold  =  EnIiI,  sec  p.  j+i.l 

'The  Sabeans,  a  pagan  Aramaic  sect  of  Mesopotamia  at  Harran,  are  said  to  have  assigned 
a  metal  to  each  planet.  Since  a  considerable  part  of  their  religion  was  derived  from  Babylonia 
we  may  consider  this  direct  evidence  for  the  Babybnian  origin  of  the  entire  tradition.  For  an 
account  of  the  metals  assigned  to  the  planets  by  the  Babylonians.  Persians,  Greeks  and  Ssabeans, 
see  BoussET  in  Arcbits  fiir  RtUgtonswissiitscbaft  r90i,  article  on  "Die  Himmelreise  der  Seele." 
The  order  of  the  planets,  taken  from  the  Byzantine  list  above,  is  based  upon  their  relative  dis- 
tances from  the  sun. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMER1AN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS  335 

point,  and  if  metals  stood  at  the  left  we  are  clearly  authorized 
to  interpret  the  divine  names  in  their  astral  sense.  This  assumes, 
of  course,  that  these  astral  identifications  obtained  in  the  Cassite 
period.  Assuming  this  hypothesis  we  should  have  the  metals 
for  Beteigeuze,  Ursa  Major,  Venus,  Jupiter,  Mars,  Saturn, 
New-moon(?),  a  star  In  Orion,  Venus  as  evening  and  morning 
star,  Virgo,  and  perhaps  others. 

The  reverse  of  the  tablet  is  even  more  mystic  and  subtle. 
The  first  section  connects  various  cult  substances  with  parts  of 
the  body.  White  wine  and  its  bottle  influence  the  eyes.  White 
figs  pertain  to  a  woman's  breasts.  Must  or  mead  have  power 
over  the  limbs  as  the  members  of  motion.  Terms  of  comparison 
fail  to  suggest  themselves  here  and  we  are  completely  discon- 
certed by  the  fancy  of  the  Babylonian  mystagogue.  In  the 
next  section,  which  is  only  partially  preserved,  we  have  twelve 
gods  of  the  magic  rituals.  The  province  of  each  in  relation  to  the 
city  and  state  is  defined.  Kushu,  the  evil  satyr  who  receives  the 
sin-bearing  scapegoat,  hovers  over  the  homes  of  men.  Muljru, 
the  deity  who  receives  burnt  offerings,  or  incarnation  of  the  fires 
of  sacrifice,  dwells  at  the  city-gate.  Sakkut,  a  god  of  light  and 
war,  inexplicably  protects  the  pools.  Then  follow  hitherto 
undefined  and  unknown  Cassite  deities  and  a  break  in  the 
tablet. 

As  in  the  Assyrian  duplicate,  Zimmern  Rt.  27,  so  also  here, 
the  reverse  contains  a  lexicographical  commentary  on  mytho- 
logical phrases.  The  name  of  the  god  Negun  is  commented  upon 
here  and  most  timely  information  is  given.  Both  the  phonetic 
reading  of  the  name  and  the  character  of  the  deity  are  defined. 
The  colophon  at  the  end  has  the  usual  formula  attached  to  cult 
instructions  whose  contents  are  forbidden  to  the  uninitiated. 


y  Google 


336  UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 

1.  ''*a-gub-ba (  ]'  1.  The  vessel  of  holy  water..,, 

[of  the  gods] 

2.  ''Nin-^abur-sil-du  «i«(?)  [tu-tii-  2.  is  Ninhabursildu,*  queen  of  in- 

ge\*  cantations. 

3.  '"''ian-nuAiiT*    *[  ]MES-  3.  The  little  Aatmii-vessel  is  the 

GAR  deity 

4.  "^iinig     ^A-nim  4.  The  tamarisk  is  Anu.* 

5.  *^iag-giiimmaT*     ''Dumu~ji  5.  The  date  palm-head  is  Tammuz. 

6.  *in-nu-uV  ^£-a  6,  The  maihtakal-^y^nt  is  Ea. 

7.  "iul-ii  '''Nin-urta  7.  The  ialalu-reed  is  Ninurta. 

8.  'el"  "-NinA*  8.  The  £/-plant  is  Nin4. 

■  Rnloration  from  Zim.  Rl.  jy. 

■Thiideily  appears  in  incanulions  as  the  queen  of  the  holy  viitersb/Itttgubbl.  IV  R.  sS'i  t6; 
Bab_.  Ill  38,  Sm.  491 ,  j.  Ailhough  placed  in  Ihe  court  of  Enlil  the  earth  god  as  sister  of  Enlil 
by  the  theologians,  CT.  14,  11,40  =  14.  51,  where  she  is  associated  with  a  special  deity  o(  holy 
water,  /l-gub-ba.  yet  by  function  and  character  she  beloni^s  to  the  water  cult  of  Eridu.  .  Her 
symbol  is  the  holy  water  jar  (duk)  agubba  and  the  deity  'jfubba  a  lu-lui  lig-ldg-sa  Erida-gt, 
Purifying  handwasher  of  Eridu,  CT.  34,  11,  41—24,  ;i.  The  river  goddess  *ld  is  also  btli'l 
agubbi.  CT.  16,  7,  355  where  in  1. 154  Nin^abunildH  is  a}/at  'A-\gub-ba],  sister  of  Agubba,  and  the 
river  goddess  is  mother  of  Enki,  or  Ea,  god  of  the  se^,  CT.  14,  r,  1;.  The  reading  iabur  for 
A-tlA  is  most  probable,  and  the  cognate  or  dialectic  form  iubur  is  a  name  for  the  myslerioui  sea 
that  surrounds  the  world.  See  BL.  ii;  n.  3.  The  holy  water  over  which  she  presides  is  taken 
from  the  apiu  or  nether  sea,  which  issues  from  springs,  hence  igubbC  is  spring  water,  CT.  17,  j 
111  I.  The  name,  then,  really  means  "Queen  of  the  lower  world  river,  she  that  walks  (du)  the 
streets  (ii7)."  The  Semitic  scribe  of  CT.  15,  49,  6  renders  the  name  in  a  loose  way  by  bllil  Utilli 
bllit  Uilial  suU  (m^iafi'l.  Queen  of  lustration,  queen  that  walks  the  (wide)  streets  (of  the  lower 
world).  For  the  title  bllil  UiiUi,  see  CT,  36,  43  1  [4.  For  a  parallel  to  the  description  of  her 
walking  the  streets  of  inferno,  cf.  *Kal-lig-ga  iil-dagal-ia  tdin-na,  Lady  of  purity  who  (walks)  the 
wide  streets  of  the  plain  (of  inferno),  consort  of  Irragal,  god  of  the  lower  world,  SBP.  i(8,  59.  A 
variant,  KL.  16  111  8  has  sil-gig-edin-tu,  the  dark  street,  etc. 

•Conjectural  restoration  from  ASKT.  96, 11.  Zimmern.  Rt.  37  I  j-4  has  a  longer  description 
of  [Ninbabursildu  fl-Ja-lof  ^A-gab-ba  bllil]  mi{?)  la  ndriC). 

•  Variant  of  kdn-iiir.  V  Raw.  43,  jg. 

•  In  K.  165  Rev,  8  f.  the  tamarisk  and  date  palm  are  said  to  be  created  in  heaven  {gil  OH-na 
im)  and  the  same  is  said  of  them  in  Gudea,Cyl.  B  4.  10,  gii-Unig  git-Ukka  (i.  e,  =  iig-gilimtiuini) 
ani^lud-Ja.  This  plant  appears  frequently  in  magic  rituals,  IV  R,  ;9i4'*'fci-iii  (Semitic),  IV  R. 
i6b  31,  Sburpu  IX  i-S,  and  also  in  medical  texts,  binu  has  been  identified  with  Syriac  btttS, 
tamarisk.  If  this  identification  be  correct,  a  comparison  with  the  Hebrew  legend  of  the  ifuntui 
(bread  of  heaven  in  Psalms  105,  40},  said  to  have  been  the  exudation  of  the  tamarisk,  is  possible. 

'Semitic  «*«ra,  Aramaic  ilra.  see  Meissner,  MVAG.  191),  3  p.  40  and  BE.  31,  69  n.  a. 
Used  both  in  medicine  and  magic. 

'  Passim  in  rituals  and  medicine.  See  BE.  31,69,37:  73,39;  King,  Afjgic  11.44;  Meissner. 
SAI.380S. 

•  In  Siwrpu  VI II  70  mentioned  with  !al5(».  A  magic  ointment  made  of  the  £(  and  ma!ti*fll, 
CT.  34.  9,  41.  See  also  Ebelinc.  KTA.  90  rev,  17;  King,  Magic  30,  3;.  Perhaps  identical  in 
name  with  the  stone  ariallu,  SAI.  8^45.  On  a  Dublin  tablet  often  giJ  EL.  Cf.  A-iig-<l-Ur- 
Hmu.  onion. 

•For  the  correct  reading  n(-B<J-a,seeAJSL.XXXlll  194,  159. 


y  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 


9.  iiiburru^ 

'Girird' 

9- 

The  giSbur  wood  is  the  Fire  God 

Gim 

10. 

Silveris 

the  great  god(the  moon). 

.■.•"■4»-p 

^En-me~Sdr-ra* 

II. 

Gold  is 

EnmeSarra  (the  sun). 

12.  ■"'««</» 

't-a 

12. 

Copper 

isEa. 

13.  ^'an-na 

'Nin-mai 

13. 

Lead  is 

Ninmah.' 

M-l               1 
1;.  I               1 

•                  'Nimirta 
'Nmlil' 

14. 
■5. 

1 
1 

]  is  Ninurta. 
]  is  Ninlil. 

16.  1               1 

'Dilbal 

16. 

1 

]  is  Ishtar-Venus. 

17.  [               1 

'AMAR-RA-iE- 
UD-DU-A-LU-TW 

17. 

1 

]  is  JVlardult-Jupiter. 

18.  [               1 

^Lugal-gii-a-tu-gab- 
liS-a' 

18. 

[ 

]  is  Nergal-Mars. 

19-  [              ] 

'Sak-kud- 

19. 

1 

I  is  Ninurta-Saturn.'" 

20.  [               1 

^Whj*m" 

20. 

1 

I  is  Nusku. 

21.1                    1 

'Pap-siiaaP 

21. 

1 

]  is  Papsuical. 

'  Here  a  wood  employed  in  magic,  cf.  BE,  31,  60,  6+15.  In  syllabars  iit-BUR  =  giVntTTu, 
gilkirni,  indicates  a  weapon  or  an  utensil. 

*  NITA-DU,  fire  god,  title  of  Nergal  as  fire  god  and  identical  with   ;)r  — Nergal. 

*  Here  certainly  Anu,  heaven  god,  followed  by  Earth  and  Sea  gods.  Note  also  *Gu-la  in 
liturgies  passim  as  title  of  Anu,  BL.  136.      Anu  =  Sin,  see  p.  34J, 

*  Title  of  Enlil,  lord  of  the  totality  of  decrees.    Enlil  =  §amai. 

'Originally  title  of  the  great  unmarried  mother  goddess  bllit  ilSni,  but  often  a  title  of  the 
virgin  types  Inniniand  Nini,  BL.  141;  of  Gulaiftid.  Also  somewhat  frequently  she  is  Damkina, 
consort  of  Ea,  IV  R.  $4^  47;  CT.  )],  3.  ai  her  star  beside  that  of  Ea.  Here  she  is  the  mother 
goddess  and  the  same  order,  Heaven,  Earth,  Sea,  Mother  Goddess  in  Sburpit  IV  41,  where 
Nin-ma^  has  the  Var.  Nin-tud,  Ebeling,  KTA.  p.  131,  1 1.  Symbols  of  these  four  deities  on 
boundary  stones  in  same  register,  Hinke,  A  New  Bointdary  Sioni,  p.  a8  second  register,  et  passim. 

*  Possibly  a  metal  stood  here,  identified  with 'df .45,  a  star  in  Orion  (Kaksidi  — Beteigeuie), 
CT.  J3,  a,  6;  King,  Magic  50, 19. 

'  Pos«bly  the  constellation  Ursa  Major  Margidda,  the  Wagon  is  intended,  identified  mth 
Ninlil  on  a  Berlin  text,  Weidner,  Havdbucb  79,  10.  See  also  Bezold  in  Dgimgl,  PanUton 
BabylonituMiii. 

'  From  the  context  certainly  a  title  of  Marduk,    Zim.  37  I  19  omits  LU-TU. 

•Or  BH-iarbe.  title  of  Nergal,  v.  VAB.  IV  170,  67.     Between  lines  17  and  18  the  variant 

■°  But  Mars  in  Amos  ;,  16.  I  accept  here  the  later  identifications,  Nergal-Mars,  Nlnurta- 
Saturn.  The  identifications  in  the  earlier  period  of  Babylonian  astronomy  appear  to  have  been 
Ninurta-Mars  and  Nergal-Sacurn. 

"  Probably  the  astronomical  form  of  Nusku  as  god  of  the  new  moon,  IV  R.  33114.  His  char- 
acter as  fire  god  is  symbolized  by  the  torch,  ZA.  VI  343,  34.  In  II  lo  supply  Cifril  after  Zi mm ern 
RT.  37,  ;.    As  fire  god  he  is  messenger  of  Enlil. 

■^  Papsukal,  messenger  of  Zamama,  god  of  KM,  a  form  of  Ninurta,  He  also  like  Nusku 
derives  his  messenger  character  from  his  connection  with  light,  Papiukal  la  U-ir4i,  Papsukal  of 
the  morning  light,  CT.  34,  40,  53.    Since  Ninurta  is  identified  with  Alpha  of  Orion,  Pap-sulial  is 


,,  Google 


338 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


23 
2"; 

26 

27 

29.  [ 

30 

I 

-IMl'Sak-iut' 

22.  1 

-\SlD  '^'Ratn-ma-nu 

23.  t 

\  •'"Isblar  Uruk-{ki) 

24.1 

fhlUiT  A-ga-di-IJii) 

25.   1 

-\TAR-'"Bi4iHlri 

26.1 

1                       'Nm-m 

27.   t 

ri-\kts-iu-nu  'Ninuiia 

28.   [ 

]  Hani  sibilli^ 

20.1 

]  ^' En-tnt-i&r-ra 

30.   ( 

Obverse  II 

]  is  Sakkut. 

]  is  Ramman. 

]  is  Ishtarof  Erech.* 

]  is  Ishtar  of  Agade.* 

]  is  B«lit-5eri.* 

1  is  Ninlil. 

]  their  band(?)  is  Nin- 

urta. 
]  is  the  seven  gods. 
]  is  Enmesharra/ 


2.  git  [  1         ['■ 

3-  gii  f  ]         ("■ 

4.  '^tim  [  ]     [-■ 

5.  tim-laP  ['■ 

6.  gi-dug-ga^  i**- 


1 


2.1  ] 

3-  [  ] 

4    I  1 

5.  Box-wood  is  the  god 

6.  The  good  reed  is  the  god 


identified  wilhoneof  the  stars  in  Orion,  CT.  3],  1  II  J:  ■"'lii-fi-fln-fui  *Pap-iukal[sukal  'Anim 
Iltar]  restored  from  Virolleaud,  SuppUmetU  LXVIl  10.  Here  he  is  messenger  of  heaven  and  of 
Ishtar  as  Venus,  queen  of  heaven,  that  is,  he  is  a  messengerof  the  powers  of  celestial  hghl.  Nutku 
and  Pap-sukal  often  occur  together  In  magic  texts,  Sburpu  VIII  10. 

■  Here  probably  Sakkut  as  lord  of  light  and  justice,  god  of  Isin.  in  his  normal  capacity. 
See  BL.  110  n.  6.  His  emblem  is  something  made  of  date  palm,  idg,  gilimtnar.  This  deity  is 
unknown  in  magic  texts  except  in  Zimmern,  Rt.  70,  8. 

'  Ishtar  of  Erech  is  Venus  as  evening  star,  the  etTeminate  Venus  of  Erech,  see  TdiDMoif 
and  Isbtar,  54  and  180  n.  4. 

'  Venus  as  morning  star.  The  Ishtar  of  Agade  was  the  type  of  war  goddess,  see  op.  cit.  p.  100; 
hence  Venus  as  morning  star  is  sometimes  called  the  Bow  Star,  Kugleh,  Sternkundi  II  198. 

<  Western  title  of  GeSlinanna.  sister  of  Ishtar.     Here  perhaps  the  constellation  Virgo. 

*  The  seven  gods  are  the  Pleiades,  CT.  a.  3.  44.  Since  they  are  followed  by  Enmesharra 
perhaps  here  to  be  identified  with  the  seven  sons  of  Enmesharra  (see  BE.  )i,  );).  In  ZA.  VI 143, 
10  fi-unt-ial-meh  "the  great  reed  spears"  are  symbols  of  the  seven  great  gods,  sons  of  lihara. 
But  traces  of  the  last  sign  are  not  those  of  MES  here, 

'  In  astronomy  a  form  of  N I n-urta— Saturn,  but  by  character  allied  to  Nergal  a  lower  world 
deity.  See  line  11  above.  For  E.  as  Saturn  note  V  Raw.  4611  3 1,  his  star  UDU-UMxad  II  R. 
48,  %2  thesameslar  is  "UDlZ-S-ID-ittj-Mi-kiiiKiliiii.  Saturn.  See  also  BE.  ji,);  n.  4  line  ii, 
kaimanu  title  of  Enmesharra. 

''limeilali  employed  in  medical  texts,  see  SAI.  }}74  and  Jastrow.  Medical  Text  Rev.  ;. 
Here  also  without  ;i!.  Koi.ma,  Beitrage  jum  assyriicben  Lexicon,  p.  8;.  identified  it  with  Syr. 
lamlSrS.  Persian  and  Arabic  Umtar. 

■  Passim  in  medical  and  incantation  texts.  CT.  3),  4J.  9;  RA,  14,  88,  6;  Eseunc,  KTA. 
36R.10;  IV  R-  55  No.  2,  i8.,etc- 


y  Google 


STEPHEN  LANGDON — SUMBRIAN  LITURGIES  .AND   PSALMS  J39 

7.  iim-U  ''{Immer       ']  7.  Cypress  is  Adad/ 

8.  "iipaii   burrumi?   "'LAariu(_?)*  8.  Wool    of   variegated    color   is 

mar[ai  *''/imm    ]  Labariu  daughter  of  Anu. 

9.  iimr-ZU*  ''[Nitfurla    ]  9.  The  aromat-ZU  is  Ninurta. 
10.  nig-^na                            *-UraiS         10.  The  censer  is  Urasha.* 

u.  gi-biUd  *■[        Gi-ha\  11.  The  torch  is  Gibil.» 

13.  ^ta-ri  ibb6ti^  '-[Ne-ian]  12.  The  clean  incense  is  Negun." 

13.  mul-iiUum    *Ig[i'BALAG*   lH         13.  The  amphora(?)  is  Igi-BALAG, 

«M-fiWflf  ^■Ert'lil-ld]  gardener  of  Eniil. 

14.  "'^nig-kalag-ga*''    '-Nin-isar  14.    The     copper    kettledrum    is 

*NeTga[\  Ninsar,"  that  is  Nei^l. 

15.  kui-eS^gal'^  '-[NINDA+GUD]         15.  The  hide  of  a  great  bull   is 

NINDA+GUD" 

16.  im-bar  ''[Ui3/^gS14u\         r6.  Gypsum  is  the  storm  god  (Nin- 

urta)" 

17.  esir  *id  17,  Bitumen  is  the  river  god." 

18.  mdl-^-ddb-ba-a  '[Kw-iu]         18.  The  scapegoat  is  Kushu." 

>  Here  variant  Zim.  Rt.  37  Obv.  1 1  begins. 
'  Written  sig  dar-a. 

*  The  name  of  this  deity  is  not  [egible  in  Zimmern's  variant  and  the  first  sign  oF  the  name 
on  the  Nippur  text  is  doubtful  but  apparently  the  UlUg  and  gunu  of  Gain,  that  is  REC.  lOO  later 
RAB+GAN.  (v.  SAI.  p.  15s  "ole  0-  After  this  sign  Zimmern  and  I  have  seen  a  sign  KUotSU. 
Labartu  is  usually  written  RAB+GAN-ME.  Here  we  may  have  to  do  with  some  new  ideogram 
for  this  deity.  She  is  the  daughter  of  Anu,  Haupt.  ASKT.  94,  jg.  A  prayer  lo  the  daughter  of 
Anu  i)  Kino,  MagU  No.  61,  ;-3i. 

'Zim.  St/. 

*  But  in  ZA.  VI  343,  3)  symbol  of  Azagsud, 

*  But  2A.  VI  341,  34  Nujku,  fire  god  in  Nippur  pantheon. 

'SceMitss-ARNOLT, p. 940.  Mso-noternkKakkula^n-taii,  cenwrof  incense, CT.  19,  $0,9; 
itttari  ia  lipii,  incense  pertaining  to  the  ritual  of  the  incantation,  ibid.  30.  IfuUm  is  a  plural  form 
employed  to  denote  several  acts  of  fumigation. 

■  Reading  esiabli^ed  by  Rev.  II  8.  But  see  Meek,  AJSL.ji,  387,  Ii'ii<iu-i»(n)glosson  the 
star  Nt-iAti;  son  of  Ninlil,  hence  a  star  in  Ninlii's  constellation  Ursa  Major,  Virolleaud,  Sin 
XI 1 1  33. 

*  Perhaps  igt-iig-sig;  cf,  CT.  34,  3,  3j, 

'°  InZA.  VI  343,  ig,  symbol  of  Eniil.  But  CT.  16,  34,3$  hero  of  Anu.  In  rituals  generally 
with  htiptgalA. 

"  Sword  bearer  («J!  ^tfrO  of  Enlil,  CT.  34,  10,  16. 

"  Symbol  of  Anu  in  ZA.  VI  343,  19. 

"  Priest  of  Enlil,  CT.  34,  10,  13.    Cf.  CL/£X.N/ND/*=™lni,  youngox,  SBC.  19,  14, 

"ZA.  VI  343,  I J  gypsum  is  'MAS. 

"  But  ZA.  VI  343,  I  $  bitumen  is  the  asakku  demon. 

"A  pest  demon  son  of  Anu,  III  R,  69,  70.  On  the  other  hand,  ZA.  VI  346,  33  the  scapegoat 
represents  the  patron  of  flocks  Ninamaiazag  who  supplies  the  goat.  When  sin  is  transferred  10 
the  goat  it  falls  under  the  protection  of  Kushu.    See  Rev.  I  6. 


,,  Google 


340 


UNIVEEISITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN   SECTION 


19.  udu-li-la^  ^[Gira] 

20.  mAi-gi-bil-la  ^■[Mu-ulf-]ra 

21.  U-bir-bir-ri  u-pu-un-tum 

22.  jeri  ma-ka-lu'H 

23.  ^'^ka-iaf'       ''Nun-Hr-ra  'Ea* 

24.  *'*ku-ma-nu  7  d-mw*  ku    'Mar- 

duk 


25.  kii-gi-st^'- 


'''A-nun-na-ki 


26.  ii^gt  «ig-«i(iJ-fi(/'  ^Mai-tab-ba- 

gaUga 

27.  mai-du  ''Un-gtU  Nibnt-''** 

28.  *Mr-^i-(^)  'Nin-sig 

29.  «*«">  "*««■«  lito'i    ^Zi-i 

30.  /d/....  "■[  ] 

31.  /f /i 

32.  ''■id       ''■[  ] 


19.  "The  living  lamb"  is  Gira,' 

20.  The  goat  of  the  torch'  is  Mubru. 

21.  "Scattered  grain(?),"  chick  pea 

(?) 

22.  seed-corn,  eating  table  and 

23.  the  kagai-poti  are  Ninuira-Ea. 

24.  The  seven  (headed)  weapon  of 

laurel  wood,  the  storm,  the 
weapon  of  Marduk. 

25.  Red  sun-disks(?)  are  the  Anun- 

naki. 

26.  The  golden  sacred  kid(?)  is  the 

Great  Twins.^ 

27.  The  kid  is  Ungal*  of  Nippur. 

28.  The  crane  is  Ninsig.* 

29.  The  sun  of  cedar,  weapon  ci 

Zu." 

30.  Honey . . . .  is  the  god 

31.  Oil oil 

32 River-god,  god 


'  Cf,  'En-Mdu-til-la.  SBP.  1 50  n.  5  r.  8. 

*  Patron  of  flocks  and  Fire  god. 

*  That  is  burnt  offering. 

'  I.  e.  Eaas  the  god  of  potters.    N-jnurraisfSti^iirHriibilof  Anu.  Meek  BA.  X  pt.  1  p.  43,  14. 
Note  CT.  14,  14,  4i,''NKH-fir.rfly«*)  MfOfl 
'Sie!    Semitic. 

*  Cf,  IV  R.  a8'  No.  4  Rev.  j.     The  symbols  in  lines  34-6  are  obscure. 
'  Lugatgirra  and  Meslamlaea. 

'  The  temple  of  Cuta  and  Ungalof  Nippur.  Clay.  BE,  XV  34. 3.  Ungal-^ttniilli,  poputalioit. 
God  of  the  people  of  Nippur. 

*  A  form  of  Enki  as  patron  of  metallurgy.    See  RA.  13.  8}  n,  j, 

"  jHM  probable  reading  for  B.<D  in  this  sense.  Offerings  to  the  (i!-jmi,GENOuiLLAC,  Drebem, 
;^o;  Obv.  II  ij. 

"  Sign  a  confusion  of  Nl+iii  and  K^K+iil.  see  RA,  ij,  ), 

"Zd,  the  eagle,  bird  of  the  blazing  sun.  Ninurta,  Ningirsu,  is  the  only  emblematic  animal  that 
figures  as  a  deity.  The  myth  of  his  conflict  with  the  serpent  tn  the  story  of  Etana  dramatizes 
the  old  legend  of  the  conflict  between  sun  and  clouds.    He  appears  in  magic  here  for  the  first  time. 


,,  Google 


STEPHEN   LANGDON — SUMERIAN   LITURGIES  AND   PSALMS 

Reverse  I 


1.  karanu  ellu  ^a^^ul-ti  eni-tu 


I.  White  wine  and  bottle  are  his 


2. 
i- 

4- 
5- 

tiUu  pifitu'                       tuli-iu* 
''"nurmil                     btr-ka-a-iu 
littu?                        ki-sal-la-a-iu 
mirsu                      pit  puridi-lu 

2.  The  white  fig  is  her  breasts. 

3.  The  M«r-fig  is  his  (her)  knees. 

4.  The  fig  is  his  (her)  loins. 

5.  Must  is  his  (her)  crotch. 

6. 

7- 
8. 
9- 

lO. 

II. 

12. 

"3- 
i8. 

'Ku-ii                 fir        ki-i-ii* 

'■Mu-u^-ra  ina  pan  ahulli 
'Sak-kui  ina  habal  appari 
'Si-lak-ki*  ina  ma-na-^a-ti 
*E-hu-rum*  ina  libbi  itr  ildi 
''■/tb-ba-    gu-Ia''  ina    igari 
■'■    ?    ?                  ina  nasikali 

"7 

12  ilani  [                            ] 

6.  The  god  Kushu  over  the  cham- 

ber. 

7.  Mubru  before  the  city  gate. 

8.  Sakkut  in  the  midst  of  the  pool 

9.  Silakki  in  the  ruins. 

10.  Ekurum  in  the  leg. 

1 1 .  Abbagula  in  the  wall. 

12.  [              1  in  the  fortress. 
13-17. 

18.  Twelve  gods. 

1.  lSAaGlR]-ME  ia  ina  pani-Su 

namru* 

2.  [  KU]-SU  la*  mab-ru 

3.  [  -]u:NU:  la-a 

4.  1  BT:]iu-^'''JLA:ma- 

bi-ri 


1.  The  battle  which  before  him 

gleams. 
2 not  are  received. 

3.  [  ]^fy  =  not. 

4.  [  ]BI  =  t\i3X:ILA  =  lo 

present. 


'See  Vab.  IV  154,  44  and  note. 
'  Sk  here  for  la.  feniinine.     The  form  should  be  dual. 

>  Gunu  of  MA-litttt:  Sumerian  pti,  value  alio  assigned  to  MA'iiUu  in  Ihe  Chicago  Syllabir, 
■  13  f. 

*  ilFH,  compensaiion  for  kisfa.  See  also  Strassmaier,  Nahomius  699,  34.  ii-ju.  Note  that 
the  iuiduppu  (probably  an  image  of  a  scapegoat)  symbol  of  Kuii  is  placed  opposite  the  door  in 
ZiM.  Rt.  p.  168,  39. 

*  Clay,  Perional  Naviis  0/  Ibe  Casiiie  Period,  mentions  a  deity  Si-lak-kii-kii(?).  In  any  case  a 
Cassite  deity  not  mentioned  in  Babylonian  lists  and  texts. 

•Otherwise  unknown.     A  Cassite  deily{?). 

'  Probably  same  as  Abagal.  DEtMEL,  PatUbeon,  p.  43. 

■Cf.  ZiMMERN,  17  R,  14-17 

*  Written  NU.  Cf.  Zimhern,  37  Rev.  I  19. 
"Cf.  iiii.»i. 


y  Google 


UNIVERSITY  MUSEUM — BABYLONIAN  SECTION 


5.  [*'Ne-gun\  erim-bi  nu-tuk-a  ai-bi 

ina  ^ati-iu  la  uiUnt 

6.  NE-RU:ai-bi:ID:ka-ti:TUK'A 

salSeS? 

7.  'Ne-gun*  ka-Iu-i         i-ta-tam 

8.  yU'iunu^:gu-nu'u:Sl:ka-lu'U 


5.  Negun  who  foes  has  not.    The 

wicked  from  his  hand  escape 
not. 

6.  N£-Rt/  =  wicked:  /£)  =  hand: 

?    ? 

7.  Negun  is  he  that  bums  with  fire. 

8.  The  gunu  of  yU  has  the  syllabic 
value  gunu:si{g)  =  to  bum. 


9- 

NE:i-la-Ui:sa-nil  ka-lu  ni-ka 

9- 

N£-fire:  Or  =  to  consume 
offerings  in  Are. 

lo. 

SAL-&ES*:ha'nu'&:            ga-lu 

10. 

ninmui  =-  blaze,  bum. 

II. 

SI-.ba-nu-A-.NE                   ga-lu 

11. 

si{g)=h\ax:  bil  =  bum. 

12. 

mMH  mM&  li-kal-Iim 

12. 

Let  the  knowing  infomi  the 
knowing. 

13. 

la  mM&  id  immar 

>?■ 

He  that  knows  not  may  not 
read. 

ki-ma  labiri-iu  ""Ninurta-nafir 

According  to  its  original  Nin- 

mar  Ilu^mia  """■aiipu  iifur 

urtu-najir  son  of   llu-iljiSa, 

bHU  E-iu-me-rd 

the  priest  of  magic  wrote. 
It  is  the  property  of  the 
temple  ESumera.* 

'  Sign  is  tiU-guHu  an  error  for  5/-.(ii>iii.  Only  the  latter  sign  has  the  value*  bright,  bum. 
Line  8  proves  that  the  sign  is  based  on  Sf. 

* nin-mu!.  The  sign  SeS  has  the  value  nul.  Note  5AI.  1639  the  gloss  ta-aH-SES  and 
variant  Chicago  Syliahar  113  ga-an-mui.  See  also  JRAS.  190;,  81-4-18  I.  14.  For  miil=ban& 
d.  SAI.  1916. 

*This  is  a  real  library  note  and  is  clear  evidence  for  assuming  ihat  the  temple  of  Nippur 
possessed  a  library,  at  least  in  the  Cassiie  period.  For  similar  library  notes  on  the  tablets  from 
Aiiur.  see  RA.  tj,  99.  Note  also  the  Smith  Esagila  tablet  published  by  Scheil.  Mrmoirts  it 
VAcadtmie  dts  Inscriptions  el  Belles  Lettrts  XXXIX.  Rev  7,  m&dt  miuU  likaUim  la  mAdt  ul 
immar  an  pt  duppi  gahri  Barsip-ki  laiir-ma  VB-TU  1)  ha-ri.    For  an  pi  (KM),  see  RA.  13.  91. 


,,  Google 


ADDENDUM  ON  OBV.  I  lo  F. 

Anu  in  this  passage  really  denotes  Sin,  the  moon,  which 
has  been  connected  with  silver  on  account  of  its  color.  The 
identification  of  Anu,  the  heaven  god,  with  the  moon  god  rests 
upon  the  astronomical  connection  between  the  moon  and  the 
summer  solstice,  see  Weidnbr,  Handbuch  der  Bahylonischen 
Astronomie,  32.  Sin  is  called  "Anu  of  heaven,"  Kenc,  Magic, 
No.  I,  9,  and  for  the  connection  with  silver,  see  Virolleaud, 
Asirologie,  Supplement,  V  11,  kaspu  ^A-nu  burafu  ^'Enlil 
erU  "'Ea.  Enlil  is  connected  with  gold  in  Virolleaud, 
Asirologie,  Second  Supplement,  XVll  14,  and  Enlil  is  not  infre- 
quently identified  with  Shamash,  see  p.  158,  1-2  and  p.  308,  18, 
and  gold  is  the  traditional  metal  of  the  sun. 

The  Greek  identification  of  Zeus,  the  sky-god,  with  silver  is 
certainly  borrowed  from  Babylonia;  see  p.  334. 


y  Google 


DESCRIPTION  OF  TABLETS 


13856 


7847 


Large  two  column  tablet.  Unbaked;  light 
brown  with  dark  spots.  Top  broken  away 
and  left  lower  corner  damaged.  H,  6)inches; 
W.  4\:  T.  iJ-J.  Liturgy  of  the  cult  of 
Ishme-Dagan.     See  pages  245-257. 

Upper  part  of  a  large  two  column  tablet. 
Unbaked;  light  brown.  Top  and  left  edge 
of  the  fragment  damaged.  H.  3! ;  W,  3J; 
T.  li-}.  Liturg>'  of  Ishme-Dagan.  See 
pages  258-259. 

Dark  brown  unbaked  tablet.  Right  upper 
corner  slightly  damaged.  Right  lower  comer 
broken  away.  Two  columns.  H.  8;  W.  5i; 
T.  i-j.  Mythological  hymn  to  Innini.  The 
obverse  is  translated  on  pages  260  to  264,  but 
the  reverse  is  too  badly  damaged  to  permit 
an  interpretation.  The  text  ends  with  the 
line,  "Oh  praise  Innini,"  the  literary  note 
characteristic  of  epical  compositions.  The 
scribe  adds  a  note  stating  that  there  are  153 
lines.  Written  by  the  hand  of  Lugal-^e-a . . 
....  son  of  E-a-i-lu(?) .... 

Light  brown  fragment  from  the  left  upper  corner 
of  a  large  unbaked  tablet.  H.  3i;  W.  rj-i ; 
T.  1J-1.  Duplicate  of  7847.  This  tablet 
omits  the  Hturgical  note,  "Oh  praise  Innini." 
It  has  the  colophon,  "Written  by  the  hand  of 

Ninurash-mu ,     in     the     presence    of 

Nidaba-igi'pa{?)- . .  .^e-en." 

Single  column,  dark  brown  tablet.  Partly 
baked.  Left  lower  corner  broken  away. 
H.  4i,  W.  2i;  T.  ii4.  Psalm  to  Enlil. 
See  pages  265-268. 

(344) 


y  Google 


STEPHEN  LANGDON — SUMERIAN  LITURGIES  AND  PSALMS 


2154 

8097 
346 
8334 
8533 

7080 


BM.  78239 


DC&CRIPTIOH 

Single  column,  light  brown  tablet.  Top  and 
left  lower  corner  broken.  H.  4J;  W,  2J; 
T.  iJ-J.  Lamentation  for  Lagash.  See 
pages  268-272. 

Single  column,  light  brown  tablet.  Lower  edge 
damaged.  H.4i;  W.  2J;  T.  f-J.  Liturgical 
hymn  to  Sin.    See  pages  276-279. 

Single  column,  dark  unbaked  tablet.  Damaged 
at  top  and  bottom.  H.  4;  W.  2J;  T.  i-J. 
Bilingual  hymn.    See  plate  86. 

Single  column,  light  brown  tablet,  unbaked. 
Left  upper  corner  and  top  of  reverse  damaged. 
H .  4| ;  W.  2i ;  ■  T.  1  i-J.    Hymn  to  I  nnini. 

Upper  part  of  a  large  two  column  tablet.  Light 
brown,  soft  and  crumbling.  Purchased  by 
the  Expedition  in  1895,  from  Abu  Hatab. 
H.  3i;  W.  5J;  T.  li-J.    Hymn  to  Enlil. 

Large  light  brown  tablet;  five  columns;  broken 
perpendicularly  at  the  middle.  Isin  period. 
H.  8i;  W.4;  T,  2.  Liturgy  to  Enlil.  Lamen- 
tation fo.  the  city  of  Ur.    See  pages  279-285. 

Nearly  complete  tablet ;  baked.  Temple 
Library  (IV).  Second  Exp.  Two  column 
tablet;  Casstte  period.  H.  4;  W.  3J;  T,  ij. 
Cult  symbols.     See  pages  320-342. 

Upper  half  of  large  single  column  tablet.  Light 
brown,  partially  baked.  H.  7;  W.  6;  T  2. 
Acquired  by  the  British  Museum  in  1888. 
Late  Babylonian  edition  of  the  third  tablet 
of  the  liturgy  elum  didara  to  Enlil.  See 
pages  323-329. 

Lower  part  of  a  large  unbaked  tablet,  two  col- 
umns. Right  half  almost  wholly  broken 
away.  Myth  of  the  water  god  Enki.  H.  6; 
W.  61;  T.  \\.    Probjbly  a  {ag-sal  hymn. 


y  Google 


INDEX  OF  TABLETS 


346 
2154 
«o6o 
7080 
7847 
7848 
8097 
8134 
8S33 
1100$ 
11327 
13856 
15204 
.  M.  78239 


OTHER  TABLETS  TRANSLATED  OR  DISCUSSED 


Tiblet  Virolleaud  / 290-308 

Poebel.  PBS.  V  No.  26. . .  .272-276 
Myhrman,  PBS.  INo.  5\  .  __ 
R2dau,BE.30,No.2  '} -=85-290 
Myhrman.  PBS.  1  No.  8. .  .309-310 

Zimmem,  KL.  No.  11 290-308 

Zimmern,  Ritual  Taftln,  No. 
37 330-340 


Ashmolean  Prism . 
Strassmaier,  ZA.  VI  241-4 
Reisner,  SBH.  No.  18, 
Reisner,  SBH.  No.  31 
Reisner,  SBH.  No.  32 
Reisner,  SBH.  No.  25 


.311-333 
.330-333 
.327-329 
.292-297 
.392-295 
.300-302 


,,  Google 


INDEX  TO  VOL.  X 


abal,  irrigator,  287,  I3. 

Abbagula  (deity),  341,  11. 

agubba,  vessel,  symbol  of  Ninhabur- 

sildu,  336,  I . 
Aja  (goddess),  305,  14. 
Allat  (goddess),  306,  20. 
am,  ''Am,  title  of  Ea,  394. 
Ama^uhalbi,  title  of  mother  god- 
dess, 329,  19. 
Ama-u5um-gal,    title  of   Tammuz, 

304. 
Annigarra,  temple  in  Isin,  300,  7. 
Anu  (god),  261;    264;    281;    282; 

295;  397;  302.     Identified  with 

the  moon  god,  337,  10. 
Anunnaki    (gods),    247,    2;    262; 

317;  340. 
Arabu,  bird  of  Enlil,  266. 
Aralu,  288,  23. 

Aruru  (goddess),  sister  of  Enlil,  301. 
ASimur,  title  of  moon  god,  277,  17 

and  22;  278. 
ASnan  (goddess),  389;  30$. 
ASSirgi  (god),  316;  317;  318;  319; 

330. 
ASte,  temple  in  Larak,  289,  9. 
Azagsud  {ilu),  title  of  grain  goddess, 

389,  10;  305,  13. 
Babylon  (city),  301,  22. 
balag-di;   choral    phrase,  250,    14; 

354,  26. 
Barsippa  (city),  301,  23. 
Bau  (goddess),  339;  30;. 
Belit-§firi  (goddess),  338. 
Bel-sarbe,  title  of  Nergal,  337,  18. 
bitumen,  symbol  of  river  god,  339. 


Canonical  liturgies,  237  ff. 
censer,  symbol  of  Urasha,  339,  lo. 
copper,  symbol  of  Ea,  337,  12. 
crane,  bird  symbol  of  Ninsig,  340. 
Damgalnunna  (goddess),  294;    396. 
Damu,  title  of  Tammuz,  287,  6: 14; 

306,  28. 
date-palm,  symbol  of  Tammuz,  336, 

5- 
Dilbat  (goddess),  337,  16. 
Dilmun  (ki),  279,  14: 19. 
dog,  seven-headed,  305,  i;. 
Duazag,  sanctuary,  248,  7;  389. 
duma-sag,  title  of  TaSmet,  336,  4 : 5. 

dingir    dumu-sag    ( =  Nappasi  — 

Ninmungara)  is  probably  a  title 

of  Ninlil,  303,  13.  Seeibid.  note6 

and  SBP.  i;o  note  5,  line  14. 
Ea  (god),  336,  6. 
E-anna,  temple  of  I  Star  in  Erech, 

275,  20. 
E-barra,  temple  of  the  sun  god,  301. 
E-daranna,  chapel  of  Ea  in  Esagila, 

301. 
E-dimma,  temple,  royal  chapel  in 

Ekur,  289,  1$. 
E-durazagga,  epithet  of  Isin,  329, 

18. 
E-galmah,  temple  at  Isin,  289,  19. 
e-gi-a,  bride,  title  of  Zarpanit,  326, 3. 
E-lbi-anum,  temple  in  Dilbat,  326. 
E-lbe-Sagud,  328. 
E-kua,  310,  19. 
E-kur,  temple  of  Enlil,  256;   258; 

359;  289;  308;  3  to;  328. 
Ekurum  (god),  341. 


y  Google 


348  Ini 

E-lamma,  chapel  or  temple  of  Ninlil 

at  Nippur,  300,  6. 
el-phnt,  symbol  of  Nina,  336,  8. 
E-maha,  294,  27  and  note. 
E-mahtila,  chapel  in  Ezida,  301. 
E-mudkurramu,  chapel  (?)  in  Ur  (?), 

279,  6:10. 
E-namtila,  chapel  of  Ekur,  301. 
Enanun,    title  of  mother  goddess, 

289,  7;  304. 
Enbul  (god),  son  of  ESabba,  303,  21 

=  SBP.    15216  and  CT.  24,  23, 

127.     Var.  "^A-an-bu-bu,  CT.  24, 

6.33 

Endaiurimma,  title  of  Enlil,  303,  4. 
En-duazag,  title  of  Enlil,  302. 
EN-HAR(ki),  316;  317;  318;  319; 

320. 
Enki  (god),  259.  16;  302;  307;  322. 
Enlil  (god),  358;    259;    261;    264; 

265;   266;  267;  268;   269;  277; 

281;   282;  283;  292;   293;  295; 

299;    300;    302;    307;    309.     As 

sun  god,  308,  18  and  15. 
Enliisi,  deified  king,  303,  20. 
EnmeSarra  (god),  337,  11;  338,  30. 

EnmenSarra,  302. 
Enul,  title  of  Enlil,  302.     Enmul, 

307. 
Enuttilla,  title  of  Enlil,  302. 
E-rabriri,  temple  of  sakkut,  329,  2 1 . 
Erech  (city).  272;   273;  274;  275. 
Eridu  (city),  259,  16;  299,  31. 
E-Sabba,  temple  of  Gula  in  ^urup- 

pak,  288,  6;  303,  21 ;  '""Suddam  is 

mother  of  ESabba,  306,  32.     See 

Suddam. 
E-sagila,  temple  of  Marduk,  301 ; 

326. 

E-Sagnamsar,    temple    in    Dilmun, 
279,  14:19. 


E-£amah,  temple  of  Ninurta,  328, 
7;  see  BL.  p.  135. 

E-Sarra,  303,  16.  Ninurta  is  son  of 
E-5Sr-ra,  BL.  No.  9,  8.  Mytho- 
logical chamber  in  Ekur,  SBP. 
32 1  n.  7.  IStar  weeps  for  E-idr-e, 
KL.,  123,  Obv.  II  2. 

ESnunak  (city),  304,  27, 

E-5umera,  temple  of  Ninurta  in 
Nippur,  328,  6;  342,  13. 

E-temenanki,  stage  tower  in  Baby- 
lon, 301. 

E-zida,  temple  of  Nebo,  301. 

gannu-tuT,  vessel,  symbol  of  a  deity, 

336,  3- 

gepar,  dark  chamber,  270,  24;  271 ; 

272. 
ge^tinanna  (goddess),  304. 
Gibil,  firegod,  339,  11;  305,  16. 
gidugga,  reed.  338,  6. 
Girra.  firegod,  337,  9. 
gUburru.  a  wood,  symbol  of  firegod, 

337.  9- 

gisgigal,  antiphon,  351,  24;  254,  33; 

283,  26;  284,  10. 
GiSzida  (god),  287.  7. 
gold,  symbol  of  sun,  337,  1 1. 
gudede,  title  of  Ninlil,  303,  12. 
Gula  (goddess),  consort  of  Tammuz, 

28s. 

Gunura,  title  of  mother  goddess, 
288,  5;  306,  27  =  SBP.  160,  13. 

GuSkinbanda,  title  of  Ea,  30;,  9. 

gypsum,  symbol  of  Ninurta,  339. 

Hallab  (city),  275;  276. 

Historical  poems,  242. 

Ibi-Sin,  king  of  Ur,  281. 

Id  (deity),  river  god  or  goddess,  294; 
297;  340. 

Igibalag  (deity),  339,  13. 

lmmer(god),26o;  262;  306;  339,j7. 


y  Google 


incense,  symbol  of  Negun,  539,  12. 

Innini  (goddess),  275;  276. 

IrriS  (god),  title  of  Ninurta,  }o6, 

23=SBP.  160,8. 
Isin  (city),  289.    Queen  of  Isin,  506, 

25;  329. 
ISme-Dagan,  deified  king,  243;  245; 

257;  258;  259. 
I5tar,  goddess  of  Erech,  338,  24;  of 

Agade,  338,  25. 
kaiaj,  pot,  symbol  of  Ea,  340. 
Kenur,  chapel  of  Ninlil  in  Ekur,  2$9: 

289;  301. 
KeS  (city),  southern  and  northern 

Ke5,    311;    southern    KeS,    315; 

316;  319;  267. 
Kingaludda,  messenger  of  the  Word, 

283. 

kinsig,  a  chamber,  248,  7. 

KiSegunura,  title  of  UraSa,  302,  2. 

kiiub,  prayer  in  liturgies,  245;  256; 
279;  290;  308. 

kuigugaia,  hide  of  an  ox,  symbol 
of  Nindagud,  339,  15. 

Ku5u  (deity),  339;  341. 

Lagash  (city),  268;  270. 

Larak  (city),  328,  16;  289,9and  20. 

lead,  symbol  of  Ninmah,  337,  13. 

Libit-lStar,  deified  king,  243. 

Liturgical  compositions  and  com- 
pilations, 237  ff.  243. 

Lugalbanda  (god),  304. 

Lugalgirra  (god),  328,  9. 

Lumma  (deity),  304. 

Mama  (god),  title  of  Sin,  269,  8. 

Marduk  (god),  294:  296;  337;  340. 

malgibilla,  burnt  offering,  symbol  of 
the  god  Muhra,  340. 

maSfjuldubbQ,  339. 

MaJtabba  (god),  328.  MaStabba- 
galgal,  twin  gods,  Gemini,  340. 


ix  349 

maitakal-phnt,  symbol  of  Ea,  336, 

6. 
metals  of  planets,  334. 
»Mi-i&-weapon,  264,  22. 
Muhra  (god),  340;  341,  7. 
Musical  instruments,  249,  23;  251, 

29;  262,  33;  279,  22;  301,  27. 
Nana  (goddess),  326,  7. 
Nannar,  god  of  new  moon,  277. 

Son  of  Enlil,  277,  22;    284,  12; 

303;  308,  19;  309,  1;  327. 
Nappasi  (goddess),  303  n.  6. 
Nebo  (god),  294;  297;  299. 
Negun    (god),  339,    12.      Firegod, 

342. 
Nergal  (god),  304;  306. 
Nigin  marra,  title  of  mother  god- 
dess, 289,  8;  328,  15. 
nigkalalag&,  kettle  drum,  symbol  of 

Nergal,  339,  14. 
Nina  (goddess),  270;  336. 
Ninazu  (god),  title  of  Nergal,  272, 

47- 
Nindagud  (god),  339,  15;  304. 
NindaSurimma,    mother    name    of 

Enlil,  302. 
Nin-duazag,  mother  name  of  Enlil, 

302. 
Ningal  (goddess),  303. 
NingiSzida  (god),  306,  20. 
Ninhaburstldu  (goddess),  336,  2. 
Ninharsag    (goddess),    272;     302; 

318;  320. 
Ntnkarnunna  (goddess),  304,  4. 
Ninki,  mother  name  of  Enlil,  302; 

307. 
Ninhga  (goddess),  272. 
Ninhl   (goddess),  258;    259;    261; 

367;  302;  337;  338. 
Ninmah  (goddess),  337. 
Ninmar(ki),  goddess  of,  269,  5 


y  Google 


350 


Ninsar,  title  of  Nergal,  339,  14. 
Ninsig,  title  of  Ea  as  god  of  metal- 
lurgy, 340.  28:  305,  9. 
Ninsun  (goddess),  304. 
Nintud  (goddess),  3r6:    318;    320; 

321. 
Ninul,   Nimul,    mother  names  of 

Enlil,  302 ;  307, 
NinuraSa    (god),   256;    336;    337; 

338;  339- 
Ninurra,  title  of  Ea,  340. 
Ninzianna,  title  of  Ninlil,  302,  8. 
Nippur    (city),     248;     259;     266; 

268;  295. 
Nunammir,  title  of  Enlil,  358,  5. 
Nusku,  firegod,  337,  20;  303,  328. 
Opis  (city).    Northern  and  southern 

Opis,  311.    See  KeS. 
Papsukkal  (god),  337,  21. 
Papilsag,  god  of  Larak,  306. 
Queen  of  heaven,  304. 
Ramman  (god),  338. 
Sadarnunna,  consort  of  Nusku,  303, 

15;  SBP.  152  note  1. 
sagar,    liturgical    rubric,    277,    16; 

279. 
Sakkut  (god),  341,  8.    Sakkutmah, 

329,  21.     See  also  337,  19;  338, 

22. 
ialalu,  plant,  symbol  of  Ninurta, 

336,  7- 
SamaS  (god),  305,  14 
larwr-weapon,  274,  18. 
iaUam,  religious  title,  274. 
Sentur,  title  of  Ninlil,  303,  10. 
Serah  (god),  Semitic  title  of  Serpent- 
god  as  patron  of  vegetation,  303, 

i6  =  SBP.  152,  10. 
seven  gods,  338,  29;  303,  10. 
seven-headed  weapon,  340. 
Silakki  (god),  341. 


silver,  metal  of  Anu,  i.  e.,  moon  god, 
337.  10. 

limli,  cypress,  symbol  of  Adad,  339, 
7- 

iimial-wood,  symbol  of  a  deity,  338, 
5- 

litn;u,  an  aromat,  symbol  of  Nin- 
urta, 339,  9. 

Sin  (god).  263;  277;  279. 

Single  song  services.  240. 

Upaiu,  wool,  symbol  of  Labartu, 
339- 

Sippar(ki),  301.  2t. 

Sirar(ki),  270. 

Suddam.  title  of  Gula,  306,  32  = 
SBP.  r6o,  18.  For  this  title  of 
Cula  of  Suruppak,  see  p.  177  n,  4 
in  part  2  of  this  volume.  Usually 
a  title  of  Aja  or  Ishtar  as  deities 
of  light.  Since  ""Sukurru  or  Gula 
of  Suruppak  is  the  same  as  Sud- 
dam mother  of  Efabba.  the  temple 
ESabba  must  be  located  in  Surup- 
pak. 

Sulpae,  title  of  Enlil,  303;  320. 

Sumer,  259;  283. 

Sunirda,  title  of  the  goddess  Aja, 
304. 

Sunippak  (city),  277,  20;  278.  25. 

Symbols  of  deities.  336  ff. 

lallu,  part  of  a  door,  275,  20. 

tammartsk,  symbol  of  Anu,  336,  4. 

Tammuz  (god),  270;  Hymn  of, 
285;  336,  5. 

tira^agga,  sacred  grove,  289,  17. 

Titular  litanies,  236;  302  ff. 

UbSukkinna,  hall  of  assembly,  247, 
3 

Uddagubba.  messenger  of  the  Word, 

283. 

uduiila,  symbol  of  Girra.  340,  t9. 


,,  Google 


Ur  (city),  277;  278;  279;  282  ;284. 
Ungal  (god),  340;  cf.  306,  31. 
Ura5a  (god),  326;  258,6;  260;  302, 

2. 
Ur-Engur,  cult  hymn  of,  243. 
UniraaS  (god),  320. 
urusagga,  chief  city,  title  of   (sin, 

289,  16;  306,  24. 
Utta-edde  (god),  305,  I7  =  SBP.  158, 

4- 
Weeping  mother,  265;  280. 


ix  351 

Word,  261,  28;  262,  29;  284;  294; 
299;  308,22;  3 1 5.  -  Hymn  to  the 
Word,  283. 

lagsal,  rubric,  233  ft,;_276,  37. 

Zarpanit  (goddess),  294;  296;  297. 

Zeus  Doiichaeos,  334.  His  con- 
nection with  silver  borrowed  from 
Babylonia,  342. 

Zir  (goddess),  wife  of  Nannar,  303. 

Zu  (god),  the  eagle  as  symbol  of  the 
sun,  340,  29. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


AUTOGRAPHED  TEXTS 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  V01_  X 


PLATE  LXXI 


y9.^. 


S  \M 


-■«? 


3K  T^  flW 


:^MW^^ 


y- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXII 


OBVCRSe 

JB'jI-'SI^h?  ia.  fet-^««Ww«<tei^3S^<!5Sv- 


gi*:,*t%_ 


H    hT 


■i^ffl^t 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


&A8YL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VCL.  X  PLATE  LXXIII 


Pf 


b,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  LXXIV 


■^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  LXXV 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXVI 


**-v«^a3    ^g  ^  «s     fv^^ 

9V¥     ^S'  vtj«>  4W  •«  W      ftS- 
I^^V  -({sSr  ,t>>    a  a  W  flW  -^^ 

jt»^^  *-H  #«^«K ,«-« *fi^ v^J-A  W  *S^  1 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXVII 


;S  V«  )*  tp /^l- V^  tt«i  icR  "^  V:®  *>■ 
ifr^ <«  «W  ^  lpaa,M!-^*  !s:t>-  >«^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


:;.t:,B       V^  4«  «W       W 

...taw         "^  *»      M   WW 


1^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABVL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXIX 


:st^«*-OHS;j«>*-  ^     <Jife      t- 


NE«V^  te«5.  H'^^  *^^*^  >^V^  * 


(^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXX 


^>Mte«^fiHskww«*4  \m 

vj\?<ml 

«jft»*m»-*;?WiJsiiS-;*<b«  ^  mv\ 

«mHr!^#.<\!3>«  M[  "  w 

»■*,» 

vt^m^m 

S#^     ^^Mr    «*¥; 

t^ 

'Ik'M 

^ 

4^ 

aJiB^«t>«<(  1* 

«> 

m-A-A:': 

»'^'v?t 

S*^t5ET?  ■*!>:; 

^  Wff;jii::.U.v;v 

m  m\  W9  ?51:«;: 
"«  4H-W  -IrSMftX 

16  ««       " 


\W  !^  «fi  h!T  .^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UMV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXXIl 


myM^m^rm^'mM''M^^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  LXXXMI 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  LXXXIV 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


^m 


^f$t 


^?^^&j^ 


%st%^g5 


§^m^^^^tM 


"^MM.M^:^1  ^^ 


1 


|5   .J«        iiU^S^ 


tir(t« 


*s 


sq 


^S 


^Ig^fS     ^  «  ^  I 


:,"  zed  b,  Google 


,,  Google 


BA6YL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXXVI 


-:^;;iv;.»\-.i;. 

.v.:;.:v,-«.»^J=j(«sa: 

^ 

m 

^ 

.«p 

Mil 

,,  Google 


,,  Google 


* 


ti 


I" 


A 


Saa*"^ 


il 


ft    1    *§^^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


6ABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATE  LXXXVIII 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X  PLATE  LXXXIX 


y  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYLr  Pub.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


■::^^.-::^}-:r--:r^mt        W      US  >«  Si? 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYU.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


Mg!i*>  *M      w>       #«ft 
.*  w     tft     £3     -w    « 

«    ;(«     Aj,  ^       W 
►«    teW    M?    «   Tl  « 

>«     «    ei     « 


«J»-W«rtt:<^.tt.'i#T  e5>4^  ^  vat 

«r »«  ass  t^  %.*«*' 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


»m^   >m         !i^         m- 

<gES*f^      :.  :     .:    ■.:.vv',^::;..;;:.::-:-: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


«-v4lfls-«t=:,>*,it>MKwaflsaTi»i-  teg 


a¥*^-^-'  -^  ■■-■■■•  ^■.^:^----- 
sw«> ::  v^^T-ffj^wKj.- 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


h&:*>  •a-,^  WffT  «tiaiR«S«»1  w 

V,:::;   ::    /:S;:*iH' W«?^^'" 


is. 


w 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


-  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL  X 


«;S«4^  W»M.>4H  .^  >ife    t^  111-  wH 
TffcSI>%i    «         riK        t*l       -ftiij 

»« RW N^  ':»^:n)^M^ tiWMBi' 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYU  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


:;:,v:v:v:r.--.\-.;>':      ■  ■ -^  ■..■.■.■■/.^.■■:.^-:'.;V--.-;-:.:5*3 
:  :  ."■,   \  ::.:^:■\lTr^'■r;l:,s.:iht-X^Si^ 
■■...•.>  tffif  cm  !tM.      a? 

>»i»MA^!nEf>>MW         ;^     Hf-     TH -ff 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


PLATEXCVII 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  > 


PLATE  XCVIII 


■i«  -W    *     fc-l- 

^    » IS?  r 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNtV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


><ttgn  ft.«f  wist«*^«»*  ■■■- 


»T   ttSf 

;:-:..,■  lVf->-    >-< 


3«*ffft*fT-»T::-: 


■^.;W 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


■":»m;:- ■   ISXW:  V«5      via 
..:v,,-,-:....,!irgtffi!BaHi2«!W 


5? 


I^^ff^t 


S' 


lw#t 


<rr»=fy 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYU  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


OBVERSE 


>mMi^ 


<T'a«w*fl 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL-  X 


(52' 


— =— ; — r-= — .  ^  a  » .     -       --  — :: 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYI-  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


1  =^«ts 

s->,ta^v^^t«^  try    hw      ti^ 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV,  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


►«:.v-. 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


BABYL.  PUB.  UNIV.  MUSEUM  VOL.  X 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


,,  Google 


