Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/theoryofliteratuOOinwell 


Alfred    Hower 

Rutgers  University 

New  Brunswick,  N.  J. 


Theory  of  Literature 


BY    RENE     WELLEK 

Kant  in  England  (  1 93 1 ) 
The  Rise  of  English  Literary  History   (  1 94 1 ) 

BY    AUSTIN     WARREN 

Pofe  as  Critic  and  Humanist  (1929) 

The  Elder  Henry  James  (1934) 

Crashaw:  A  Study  in  Baroque  Sensibility   (1939) 

Rage  for  Order  (1948) 


THEORY 


OF 

LITERATURE 


By    RENE    WELLEK 
and    AUSTIN    WARREN 


HARCOURT,    BRACE   AND   COMPANY 

New  York 


JBWgSSCTY  OF  FLORIDA  LIBRARIES 


COPYRIGHT,    1942,    1947,    1949,   BY 
HARCOURT,   BRACE   AND   COMPANY,   INC. 


All  rights  reserved,  including 
the  right  to  reproduce  this  book 
or  portions  thereof  in  any  form. 


PRINTED    IN    THE    UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA 


Preface 

The  naming  of  this  book  has  been  more  than  ordinarily  diffi- 
cult. Even  a  proper  "short  title,"  "Theory  of  Literature  and 
Methodology  of  Literary  Study,"  would  be  too  cumbersome. 
Before  the  nineteenth  century  one  might  have  managed,  for  then 
a  full,  analytic  title  could  have  covered  the  title-page  while  the 
spine  bore  the  inscription  "Literature." 

We  have  written  a  book  which,  so  far  as  we  know,  lacks  any 
close  parallel.  It  is  not  a  textbook  introducing  the  young  to  the 
elements  of  literary  appreciation  nor  (like  Morize's  Aims  and 
Methods)  a  survey  of  the  techniques  employed  in  scholarly 
research.  Some  continuity  it  may  claim  with  Poetics  and  Rhet- 
oric (from  Aristotle  down  through  Blair,  Campbell,  and 
Karnes),  systematic  treatments  of  the  genres  of  belles-lettres  and 
stylistics,  or  with  books  called  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism. 
But  we  have  sought  to  unite  "poetics"  (or  literary  theory)  and 
"criticism"  (evaluation  of  literature)  with  "scholarship"  ("re- 
search") and  "literary  history"  (the  "dynamics"  of  literature, 
in  contrast  to  the  "statics"  of  theory  and  criticism).  It  comes 
nearer  to  certain  German  and  Russian  works,  Walzel's  Gehalt 
und  Gestalt,  or  Julius  Petersen's  Die  Wissenschajt  von  der 
Dichtungy  or  Tomashevsky's  Literary  Theory.  In  contrast  to  the 
Germans,  however,  we  have  avoided  mere  reproductions  of  the 
views  of  others  and,  though  we  take  into  account  other  perspec- 
tives and  methods,  have  written  from  a  consistent  point  of  view; 
in  contrast  to  Tomashevsky,  we  do  not  undertake  to  give  ele- 
mentary instruction  on  such  topics  as  prosody.  We  are  not 
eclectic  like  the  Germans  or  doctrinaire  like  the  Russian. 

By  the  standards  of  older  American  scholarship,  there  is  some- 
thing grandiose  and  even  "unscholarly"  about  the  very  attempt 
to  formulate  the  assumptions  on  which  literary  study  is  con- 
ducted (to  do  which  one  must  go  beyond  "facts")  and  something 
presumptuous  in  our  effort  to  survey  and  evaluate  highly  special- 
ized investigations.  Every  specialist  will  unavoidably  be  dissatis- 


vi  Prejace 

fied  with  our  account  of  his  specialty.  But  we  have  not  aimed  at 
minute  completeness:  the  literary  examples  cited  are  always 
examples,  not  "proof" ;  the  bibliographies  are  "selective."  Nor 
have  we  undertaken  to  answer  all  the  questions  we  raise.  We 
have  judged  it  of  central  use  to  ourselves  and  others  to  be  inter- 
national in  our  scholarship,  to  ask  the  right  questions,  to  provide 
an  organon  of  method. 

The  authors  of  this  book,  who  first  met  at  the  University  of 
Iowa  in  1939,  immediately  felt  their  large  agreement  in  literary 
theory  and  methodology. 

Though  of  differing  backgrounds  and  training,  both  had  fol- 
lowed a  similar  pattern  of  development,  passing  through  histori- 
cal research  and  work  in  the  "history  of  ideas,"  to  the  position 
that  literary  study  should  be  specifically  literary.  Both  believed 
that  "scholarship"  and  "criticism"  were  compatible  5  both  refused 
to  distinguish  between  "contemporary"  and  past  literature. 

In  1 941,  they  contributed  chapters  on  "History"  and  "Criti- 
cism" to  a  collaborative  volume,  Literary  Scholarship,  instigated 
and  edited  by  Norman  Foerster,  to  whose  thought  and  encour- 
agement they  are  conscious  of  owing  much.  To  him  (were  it  not 
to  give  a  misleading  impression  of  his  own  doctrine)  they  would 
dedicate  this  book. 

The  chapters  of  the  present  book  were  undertaken  on  the  basis 
of  existing  interests.  Mr.  Wellek  is  primarily  responsible  for 
chapters  1-2,  4-7,  9-14,  and  19,  Mr.  Warren  for  chapters  3,  8, 
and  1 5-1 8  j  both  shared  equally  in  the  concluding  chapter.  But 
the  book  is  a  real  instance  of  a  collaboration  in  which  the  author 
is  the  shared  agreement  between  two  writers.  In  terminology, 
tone,  and  emphasis  there  remain  doubtless,  some  slight  incon- 
sistencies between  the  writers ;  but  they  venture  to  think  that 
there  may  be  compensation  for  these  in  the  sense  of  two  different 
minds  reaching  so  substantial  an  agreement. 

It  remains  to  thank  Dr.  Stevens  and  the  Humanities  Division 
of  the  Rockefeller  Foundation,  without  whose  aid  the  book 
would  not  have  been  possible,  and  the  President,  the  Deans,  and 
the  department  chairman  of  the  University  of  Iowa,  for  their 
support  and  generous  allotment  of  time;  R.  P.  Blackmur  and 
J.  C.  Ransom  for  their  encouragement;  Wallace  Fowlie,  Roman 
Jakobson,  John  McGalliard,  John  C.  Pope,  and  Robert  Penn 


Prejace  vii 

Warren  for  their  reading  of  certain  chapters;  Miss  Alison 
White  for  close,  devoted  assistance  throughout  the  composition 
of  the  book. 

The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  also  the  kindness  of  certain 
editors  and  publishers  in  permitting  the  incorporation  of  some 
passages  from  their  earlier  writings  into  the  present  book:  to 
the  Louisiana  University  Press  and  Cleanth  Brooks,  former  edi- 
tor of  the  Southern  Review  (for  "Mode  of  Existence  of  the 
Literary  Work") ;  to  the  University  of  North  Carolina  Press 
(for  a  portion  of  "Literary  History,"  in  Literary  Scholarship, 
ed.  Foerster,  1941);  to  the  Columbia  University  Press  (for 
passages  from  "Periods  and  Movements  in  Literary  History" 
and  "The  Parallelism  between  Literature  and  the  Arts"  in  the 
English  Institute  Annuals,  1940  and  1041s);  to  the  Philosophi- 
cal Library  (for  passages  from  "The  Revolt  against  Positivism" 
and  "Literature  and  Society,"  in  Twentieth  Century  English, 
ed.  Knickerbocker,  1946);  and  to  John  Palmer,  editor  of  the 
Sewanee  Review  for  "The  Graduate  Study  of  Literature." 

Rene  Wellek 
Austin  Warren 
New  Haven,  May  1,  1948 


Contents 


Preface 


I.   DEFINITIONS  AND  DISTINCTIONS 

I.  Literature  and  Literary  Study  3 

II.  The  Nature  of  Literature  9 

III.  The  Function  of  Literature  19 

IV.  Literary  Theory,  Criticism,  and  History  29 

V.  General,  Comparative,  and  National 

Literature  3  8 

II.    PRELIMINARY   OPERATIONS 

VI.  The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence       49 

III.  THE  EXTRINSIC  APPROACH  TO  THE  STUDY  OF 
LITERATURE 

Introduction  6$ 

VII.  Literature  and  Biography  67 

VIII.  Literature  and  Psychology  75 

IX.  Literature  and  Society  89 

X.  Literature  and  Ideas  107 

XI.  Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  124 

IV.  THE   INTRINSIC  STUDY  OF   LITERATURE 

XII.  The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art         139 

XIII.   Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter  159 


x  Contents 

XIV.  Style  and  Stylistics  177 

XV.  Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  190 

XVI.  The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction     219 

XVII.  Literary  Genres  235 

XVIII.  Evaluation  248 

XIX.  Literary  History  263 

V.   THE   ACADEMIC  SITUATION 

XX.  The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate 

School  285 

Notes  299 

Bibliography  347 

Index  389 


I 

Definitions  and  Distinctions 


CHAPTER   I 

Literature  and  Literary  Study 

We  must  first  make  a  distinction  between  literature  and  lit- 
erary study.  The  two  are  distinct  activities:  one  is  creative,  an 
art  j  the  other,  if  not  precisely  a  science,  is  a  species  of  knowledge 
or  of  learning.  There  have  been  attempts,  of  course,  to  obliterate 
this  distinction.  For  instance,  it  has  been  argued  that  one  cannot 
understand  literature  unless  one  writes  it,  that  one  cannot  and 
should  not  study  Pope  without  trying  his  own  hand  at  heroic 
couplets  or  an  Elizabethan  drama  without  himself  writing  a 
drama  in  blank  verse.1  *  Yet  useful  as  the  experience  of  literary 
creation  is  to  him,  the  task  of  the  student  is  completely  distinct. 
He  must  translate  his  experience  of  literature  into  intellectual 
terms,  assimilate  it  to  a  coherent  scheme  which  must  be  rational 
if  it  is  to  be  knowledge.  It  may  be  true  that  the  subject  matter 
of  his  study  is  irrational  or  at  least  contains  strongly  unrational 
elements ;  but  he  will  not  be  therefore  in  any  other  position  than 
the  historian  of  painting  or  the  musicologist  or,  for  that  matter, 
the  sociologist  or  the  anatomist. 

Clearly,  some  difficult  problems  are  raised  by  this  relationship. 
The  solutions  proposed  have  been  various.  Some  theorists  would 
simply  deny  that  literary  study  is  knowledge  and  advise  a 
"second  creation,"  with  results  which  to  most  of  us  seem  futile 
today — Pater's  description  of  Mona  Lisa  or  the  florid  passages 
in  Symonds  or  Symons.  Such  "creative  criticism"  has  usually 
meant  a  needless  duplication  or,  at  most,  the  translation  of  one 
work  of  art  into  another,  usually  inferior.  Other  theorists  draw 
rather  different  skeptical  conclusions  from  our  contrast  between 
literature  and  its  study:  literature,  they  argue,  cannot  be  "stud- 
ied" at  all.  We  can  only  read,  enjoy,  appreciate  it.  For  the  rest, 
we  can  only  accumulate  all  kinds  of  information  "about"  litera- 

*  For  the  notes,  cf.  pp.  299-346. 

3 


4  Theory  of  Literature 

ture.  Such  skepticism  is  actually  much  more  widespread  than  one 
might  suppose.  In  practice,  it  shows  itself  in  a  stress  on  environ- 
mental "facts"  and  in  the  disparagement  of  all  attempts  to  go 
beyond  them.  Appreciation,  taste,  enthusiasm  are  left  to  the 
private  indulgence  as  an  inevitable,  though  deplorable,  escape 
from  the  austerity  of  sound  scholarship.  But  such  a  dichotomy 
into  "scholarship"  and  "appreciation"  makes  no  provision  at 
all  for  the  true  study  of  literature,  at  once  "literary"  and 
"systematic." 

The  problem  is  one  of  how,  intellectually,  to  deal  with  art, 
and  with  literary  art  specifically.  Can  it  be  done?  And  how  can 
it  be  done?  One  answer  has  been:  it  can  be  done  with  the  methods 
developed  by  the  natural  sciences,  which  need  only  be  trans- 
ferred to  the  study  of  literature.  Several  kinds  of  such  transfer 
can  be  distinguished.  One  is  the  attempt  to  emulate  the  general 
scientific  ideals  of  objectivity,  impersonality,  and  certainty,  an 
attempt  which  on  the  whole  supports  the  collecting  of  neutral 
facts.  Another  is  the  effort  to  imitate  the  methods  of  natural 
science  through  the  study  of  causal  antecedents  and  origins  -y  in 
practice,  this  "genetic  method"  justifies  the  tracing  of  any  kind 
of  relationship  as  long  as  it  is  possible  on  chronological  grounds. 
Applied  more  rigidly,  scientific  causality  is  used  to  explain  lit- 
erary phenomena  by  the  assignment  of  determining  causes  to 
economic,  social,  and  political  conditions.  Again,  there  is  the 
introduction  of  the  quantitative  methods  appropriately  used  in 
some  sciences,  i.e.,  statistics,  charts,  and  graphs.  And  finally  there 
is  the  attempt  to  use  biological  concepts  in  the  tracing  of  the  evo- 
lution of  literature.2 

Today  there  would  be  almost  general  recognition  that  this 
transfer  has  not  fulfilled  the  expectations  with  which  it  was  made 
originally.  Sometimes  scientific  methods  have  proved  their  value 
within  a  strictly  limited  area,  or  with  a  limited  technique  such  as 
the  use  of  statistics  in  certain  methods  of  textual  criticism.  But 
most  promoters  of  this  scientific  invasion  into  literary  study  have 
either  confessed  failure  and  ended  with  skepticism  or  have  com- 
forted themselves  with  delusions  concerning  the  future  successes 
of  the  scientific  method.  Thus,  I.  A.  Richards  used  to  refer  to  the 
future  triumphs  of  neurology  as  insuring  the  solutions  of  all 
literary  problems.3 


Literature  and  Literary  Study  5 

We  shall  have  to  come  back  to  some  of  the  problems  raised 
by  this  widespread  application  of  natural  science  to  literary  study. 
They  cannot  be  dismissed  too  facilelyj  and  there  is,  no  doubt,  a 
large  field  in  which  the  two  methodologies  contact  or  even  over- 
lap. Such  fundamental  methods  as  induction  and  deduction, 
analysis,  synthesis,  and  comparison  are  common  to  all  types  of 
systematic  knowledge.  But,  patently,  the  other  solution  com- 
mends itself :  literary  scholarship  has  its  own  valid  methods  which 
are  not  always  those  of  the  natural  sciences  but  are  nevertheless 
intellectual  methods.  Only  a  very  narrow  conception  of  truth 
can  exclude  the  achievements  of  the  humanities  from  the  realm 
of  knowledge.  Long  before  modern  scientific  development,  phi- 
losophy, history,  jurisprudence,  theology,  and  even  philology 
had  worked  out  valid  methods  of  knowing.  Their  achievements 
may  have  become  obscured  by  the  theoretical  and  practical  tri- 
umphs of  the  modern  physical  sciences  j  but  they  are  nevertheless 
real  and  permanent  and  can,  sometimes  with  some  modifications, 
easily  be  resuscitated  or  renovated.  It  should  be  simply  recog- 
nized that  there  is  this  difference  between  the  methods  and  aims 
of  the  natural  sciences  and  the  humanities. 

How  to  define  this  difference  is  a  complex  problem.  As  early 
as  1883,  Wilhelm  Dilthey  worked  out  the  distinction  between 
the  methods  of  natural  science  and  those  of  history  in  terms  of  a 
contrast  between  explanation  and  comprehension.4  The  scientist, 
Dilthey  argued,  accounts  for  an  event  in  terms  of  its  causal  ante- 
cedents, while  the  historian  tries  to  understand  its  meaning.  This 
process  of  understanding  is  necessarily  individual  and  even  sub- 
jective. A  year  later,  Wilhelm  Windelband,  the  well-known 
historian  of  philosophy,  also  attacked  the  view  that  the  historical 
sciences  should  imitate  the  methods  of  the  natural  sciences.5  The 
natural  scientists  aim  to  establish  general  laws  while  the  his- 
torians try  to  grasp  the  unique  and  non-recurring  fact.  This  view 
was  elaborated  and  somewhat  modified  by  Heinrich  Rickert, 
who  drew  a  line  not  so  much  between  generalizing  and  individ- 
ualizing methods  as  between  the  sciences  of  nature  and  the 
sciences  of  culture.6  The  sciences  of  culture,  he  argued,  are  inter- 
ested in  the  concrete  and  individual.  Individuals,  however,  can 
be  discovered  and  comprehended  only  in  reference  to  some 
scheme  of  values,  which  is  merely  another  name  for  culture.  In 


6  Theory  of  Literature 

France,  A.  D.  Xenopol  distinguished  between  the  natural  sciences 
as  occupied  with  the  "facts  of  repetition"  and  history  as  occupied 
with  the  "facts  of  succession."  In  Italy,  Benedetto  Croce  based 
his  whole  philosophy  on  a  historical  method  which  is  totally 
different  from  that  of  the  natural  sciences.7 

A  full  discussion  of  these  problems  would  involve  decision 
on  such  problems  as  the  classification  of  the  sciences,  the  philoso-1 
phy  of  history,  and  the  theory  of  knowledge.8  Yet  a  few  concrete 
examples  may  at  least  suggest  that  there  is  a  very  real  problem 
which  a  student  of  literature  has  to  face.  Why  do  we  study 
Shakespeare?  It  is  clear  we  are  not  primarily  interested  in  what 
he  has  in  common  with  all  men,  for  we  could  then  as  well  study 
any  other  man,  nor  are  we  interested  in  what  he  has  in  common 
with  all  Englishmen,  all  men  of  the  Renaissance,  all  Eliza- 
bethans, all  poets,  all  dramatists,  or  even  all  Elizabethan  drama- 
tists, because  in  that  case  we  might  just  as  well  study  Dekker  or 
Heywood.  We  want  rather  to  discover  what  is  peculiarly  Shake- 
speare's, what  makes  Shakespeare  Shakespeare  5  and  this  is  ob- 
viously a  problem  of  individuality  and  value.  Even  in  studying 
a  period  or  movement  or  one  specific  national  literature,  the  lit- 
erary student  will  be  interested  in  it  as  an  individuality  with 
characteristic  features  and  qualities  which  set  it  off  from  other 
similar  groupings. 

The  case  for  individuality  can  be  supported  also  by  another 
argument:  attempts  to  find  general  laws  in  literature  have  always 
failed.  M.  Cazamian's  so-called  law  of  English  literature,  the 
"oscillation  of  the  rhythm  of  the  English  national  mind"  be- 
tween two  poles,  sentiment  and  intellect  (accompanied  by  the 
further  assertion  that  these  oscillations  become  speedier  the 
nearer  we  approach  the  present  age),  is  either  trivial  or  false. 
It  breaks  down  completely  in  its  application  to  the  Victorian 
age.9  Most  of  these  "laws"  turn  out  to  be  only  such  psycho- 
logical uniformities  as  action  and  reaction,  or  convention  and 
revolt,  which,  even  if  they  were  beyond  doubt,  could  not  tell 
us  anything  really  significant  about  the  processes  of  literature. 
While  physics  may  see  its  highest  triumphs  in  some  general 
theory  reducing  to  a  formula  electricity  and  heat,  gravitation 
and  light,  no  general  law  can  be  assumed  to  achieve  the  purpose 
of  literary  study:  the  more  general,  the  more  abstract  and  hence 


Literature  and  Literary  Study  7 

empty  it  will  seem;  the  more  the  concrete  object  of  the  work  of 
art  will  elude  our  grasp. 

There  are  thus  two  extreme  solutions  to  our  problem.  One, 
made  fashionable  by  the  prestige  of  the  natural  sciences,  identi- 
fies scientific  and  historical  method  and  leads  either  to  the  mere 
collection  of  facts  or  to  the  establishment  of  highly  generalized 
historical  "laws."  The  other,  denying  that  literary  scholarship  is 
a  science,  asserts  the  personal  character  of  literary  "understand- 
ing" and  the  "individuality,"  even  "uniqueness,"  of  every  work 
of  literature.  But  in  its  extreme  formulation  the  anti-scientific 
solution  has  its  own  obvious  dangers.  Personal  "intuition"  may 
lead  to  a  merely  emotional  "appreciation,"  to  complete  subjec- 
tivity. To  stress  the  "individuality"  and  even  "uniqueness"  of 
every  work  of  art — though  wholesome  as  a  reaction  against  facile 
generalizations — is  to  forget  that  no  work  of  art  can  be  wholly 
"unique"  since  it  then  would  be  completely  incomprehensible. 
It  is,  of  course,  true  that  there  is  only  one  Hamlet  or  even  one 
"Trees"  by  Joyce  Kilmer.  But  even  a  rubbish  heap  is  unique  in 
the  sense  that  its  precise  proportions,  position,  and  chemical  com- 
binations cannot  be  duplicated  exactly.  Moreover,  all  words  in 
every  literary  work  of  art  are,  by  their  very  nature,  "generals" 
and  not  particulars.  The  quarrel  between  the  "universal"  and 
"particular"  in  literature  has  been  going  on  since  Aristotle  pro- 
claimed poetry  to  be  more  universal  and  hence  more  philosophi- 
cal than  history,  which  is  concerned  only  with  the  particular,  and 
since  Dr.  Johnson  asserted  that  the  poet  should  not  "count  the 
streaks  of  the  tulip."  The  Romantics  and  most  modern  critics 
never  tire  of  stressing  the  particularity  of  poetry,  its  "texture," 
its  concreteness.10  But  one  should  recognize  that  each  work  of 
literature  is  both  general  and  particular,  or — better,  possibly — is 
both  individual  and  general.  Individuality  can  be  distinguished 
from  complete  particularity  and  uniqueness.11  Like  every  human 
being,  each  work  of  literature  has  its  individual  characteristics; 
but  it  also  shares  common  properties  with  other  works  of  art,  just 
as  every  man  shares  traits  with  humanity,  with  all  members  of 
his  sex,  nation,  class,  profession,  etc.  We  can  thus  generalize  con- 
cerning works  of  art,  Elizabethan  drama,  all  drama,  all  litera- 
ture, all  art.  Literary  criticism  and  literary  history  both  attempt 
to  characterize  the  individuality  of  a  work,  of  an  author,  of  a 


8  Theory  of  Literature 

period,  or  of  a  national  literature.  But  this  characterization  can 
be  accomplished  only  in  universal  terms,  on  the  basis  of  a  literary 
theory.  Literary  theory,  an  organon  of  methods,  is  the  great 
need  of  literary  scholarship  today. 

This  ideal  does  not,  of  course,  minimize  the  importance  of 
sympathetic  understanding  and  enjoyment  as  preconditions  of 
our  knowledge  and  hence  our  reflections  upon  literature.  But 
they  are  only  preconditions.  To  say  that  literary  study  serves 
only  the  art  of  reading  is  to  misconceive  the  ideal  of  organized 
knowledge,  however  indispensable  this  art  may  be  to  the  student 
of  literature.  Even  though  "reading"  be  used  broadly  enough  to 
include  critical  understanding  and  sensibility,  the  art  of  reading 
is  an  ideal  for  a  purely  personal  cultivation.  As  such  it  is  highly 
desirable,  and  also  serves  as  a  basis  of  a  widely  spread  literary 
culture.  It  cannot,  however,  replace  the  conception  of  "literary 
scholarship,"  conceived  of  as  super-personal  tradition. 


CHAPTER   II 

The  Nature  of  "Literature 

The  first  problem  to  confront  us  is,  obviously,  the  subject 
matter  of  literary  scholarship.  What  is  literature?  What  is  not 
literature?  What  is  the  nature  of  literature?  Simple  as  such 
questions  sound,  they  are  rarely  answered  clearly. 

One  way  is  to  define  "literature"  as  everything  in  print.  We 
then  shall  be  able  to  study  the  "medical  profession  in  the  four- 
teenth century"  or  "planetary  motion  in  the  early  Middle  Ages" 
or  "Witchcraft  in  Old  and  New  England."  As  Edwin  Greenlaw 
has  argued,  "Nothing  related  to  the  history  of  civilization  is  be- 
yond our  province" ;  we  are  "not  limited  to  belles  lettres  or  even 
to  printed  or  manuscript  records  in  our  effort  to  understand  a 
period  or  civilization,"  and  we  "must  see  our  work  in  the  light 
of  its  possible  contribution  to  the  history  of  culture."  x  Ac- 
cording to  Greenlaw's  theory,  and  the  practice  of  many  scholars, 
literary  study  has  thus  become  not  merely  closely  related  to  the 
history  of  civilization  but  indeed  identical  with  it.  Such  study  is 
literary  only  in  the  sense  that  it  is  occupied  with  printed  or 
written  matter,  necessarily  the  primary  source  of  most  history. 
It  can  be,  of  course,  argued  in  defense  of  such  a  view  that  histo- 
rians neglect  these  problems,  that  they  are  too  much  preoccupied 
with  diplomatic,  military,  and  economic  history,  and  that  thus 
the  literary  scholar  is  justified  in  invading  and  taking  over  a 
neighboring  terrain.  Doubtless  nobody  should  be  forbidden  to 
enter  any  area  he  likes,  and  doubtless  there  is  much  to  be  said 
in  favor  of  cultivating  the  history  of  civilization  in  the  broadest 
terms.  But  still  the  study  ceases  to  be  literary.  The  objection 
that  this  is  only  a  quibble  about  terminology  is  not  convincing. 
The  study  of  everything  connected  with  the  history  of  civiliza- 
tion does,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  crowd  out  strictly  literary  studies. 
All  distinctions  fall;  extraneous  criteria  are  introduced  into  lit- 
erature; and,  by  consequence,  literature  will  be  judged  valuable 

9 


IO  Theory  of  Literature 

only  so  far  as  it  yields  results  for  this  or  that  adjacent  discipline. 
The  identification  of  literature  with  the  history  of  civilization 
is  a  denial  of  the  specific  field  and  the  specific  methods  of  literary 
study. 

Another  way  of  defining  literature  is  to  limit  it  to  "great 
books,"  books  which,  whatever  their  subject,  are  "notable  for 
literary  form  or  expression."  Here  the  criterion  is  either  aesthetic 
worth  alone  or  aesthetic  worth  in  combination  with  general  intel- 
lectual distinction.  Within  lyric  poetry,  drama,  and  fiction,  the 
greatest  works  are  selected  on  aesthetic  grounds;  other  books  are 
picked  for  their  reputation  or  intellectual  eminence  together 
with  aesthetic  value  of  a  rather  narrow  kind:  style,  composition, 
general  force  of  presentation  are  the  usual  characteristics  singled 
out.  This  is  a  common  way  of  distinguishing  or  speaking  of  lit- 
erature. By  saying  that  "this  is  not  literature,"  we  express  such  a 
value  judgment;  we  make  the  same  kind  of  judgment  when  we 
speak  of  a  book  on  history,  philosophy,  or  science  as  belonging 
to  "literature."  Studies  are  written  with  such  an  assumption  be- 
hind them:  Henry  Hallam's  Introduction  to  the  Literary  His- 
tory of  the  Fifteenth,  Sixteenth,  and  Seventeenth  Centuries  dis- 
cusses books  on  theology,  logic,  and  jurisprudence,  and  even 
mathematics;  only — and  for  unaccountable  reasons — historiog- 
raphy is  left  out. 

Though  Hallam's  dividing  line  may  seem  peculiarly  arbi- 
trary, most  literary  histories  do  include  treatment  of  philoso- 
phers, historians,  theologians,  moralists,  politicians,  and  even 
some  scientists.  It  would,  for  example,  be  difficult  to  imagine 
a  literary  history  of  eighteenth-century  England  without  an 
extended  treatment  of  Berkeley  and  Hume,  Bishop  Butler  and 
Gibbon,  Burke  and  even  Adam  Smith.  The  treatment  of  these 
authors,  though  usually  much  briefer  than  that  of  poets,  play- 
wrights, and  novelists,  is  rarely  limited  to  their  strictly  aesthetic 
merits.  In  practice,  we  get  perfunctory  and  inexpert  accounts 
of  these  authors  in  terms  of  their  speciality.  Quite  rightly,  Hume 
cannot  be  judged  except  as  a  philosopher,  Gibbon  except  as  a 
historian,  Bishop  Butler  as  a  Christian  apologist  and  moralist, 
and  Adam  Smith  as  a  moralist  and  economist.  But  in  most  lit- 
erary histories  these  thinkers  are  discussed  in  a  fragmentary 
fashion  without  the  proper  context, — the  history  of  their  subject 


The  Nature  of  Literature  1 1 

of  discourse — without  a  real  grasp,  that  is,  of  the  history  of 
philosophy,  of  ethical  theory,  of  historiography,  of  economic 
theory.  The  literary  historian  is  not  automatically  transformed 
into  a  proper  historian  of  these  disciplines.  He  becomes  simply 
a  compiler,  a  self-conscious  intruder. 

The  study  of  isolated  "great  books"  may  be  highly  com- 
mendable for  pedagogical  purposes.  We  all  must  approve  the 
idea  that  students — and  even  beginning  students — should  read 
great  or  at  least  good  books  rather  than  compilations  or  historical 
curiosities.2  We  may,  however,  doubt  that  the  principle  is  worth 
preserving  in  its  purity  for  the  sciences,  history,  or  any  other 
accumulative  and  progressing  subject.  Within  the  history  of 
imaginative  literature,  limitation  to  the  great  books  makes  in- 
comprehensible the  continuity  of  literary  tradition,  the  develop- 
ment of  literary  genres,  and  indeed  the  very  nature  of  the  lit- 
erary process,  besides  obscuring  the  background  of  social,  lin- 
guistic, ideological,  and  other  conditioning  circumstances.  In  his- 
tory, philosophy,  and  similar  subjects,  it  actually  introduces  an 
excessively  "aesthetic"  point  of  view.  There  is  obviously  no  other 
reason  than  stress  on  expository  "style"  and  organization  for 
singling  out  Thomas  Huxley  from  all  English  scientists  as  the 
one  worth  reading.  It  is  further  to  be  remarked  that  this  criterion 
must,  with  very  few  exceptions,  favor  popularizers  over  the  great 
originators:  it  will,  and  must,  prefer  Huxley  to  Newton,  Berg- 
son  to  Kant. 

The  term  "literature"  seems  best  If  we  limit  it  to  the  art  of 
literature,  that  is,  to  imaginative  literature.  There  are  certain 
difficulties  with  so  employing  the  term;  but,  in  English,  the 
possible  alternatives,  such  as  "fiction"  or  "poetry,"  are  either 
already  pre-empted  by  narrower  meanings  or,  like  "imaginative 
literature"  or  belles  lettres>  are  clumsy  and  misleading.  One  of 
the  objections  to  "literature"  is  its  suggestion  (in  its  etymology 
from  Utera)  of  limitation  to  written  or  printed  literature;  for, 
clearly,  any  coherent  conception  must  include  "oral  literature." 
In  this  respect,  the  German  term  Wortkunst  and  the  Russian 
slovesnost  have  the  advantage  over  their  English  equivalent. 

The  main  distinctions  to  be  drawn  are  between  the  literary, 
the  everyday,  and  the  scientific  uses  of  language.  A  recent  dis- 
cussion of  this  point  by  Thomas  Clark  Pollock,  The  Nature  of 


1 2  Theory  of  Literature 

Literature?  though  true  as  far  as  it  goes,  seems  not  entirely 
satisfactory,  especially  in  defining  the  distinction  between  literary 
and  everyday  language.  The  problem  is  crucial  and  by  no  means 
simple  in  practice,  since  literature,  in  distinction  from  the  other 
arts,  has  no  medium  of  its  own  and  since  many  mixed  forms  and 
subtle  transitions  undoubtedly  exist.  It  is  fairly  easy  to  distin- 
guish between  the  language  of  science  and  the  language  of  lit- 
erature. The  mere  contrast  between  "thought"  and  "emotion" 
or  "feeling"  is,  however,  not  sufficient.  Literature  does  contain 
thought,  while  emotional  language  is  by  no  means  confined  to 
literature:  witness  a  lovers'  conversation  or  an  ordinary  argu- 
ment. Still,  the  ideal  scientific  language  is  purely  "denotative": 
it  aims  at  a  one-to-one  correspondence  between  sign  and  referent. 
The  sign  is  completely  arbitrary,  hence  can  be  replaced  by  equiv- 
alent signs.  The  sign  is  also  transparent ;  that  is,  without  draw- 
ing attention  to  itself,  it  directs  us  unequivocally  to  its  referent. 

Thus  scientific  language  tends  toward  such  a  system  of  signs 
as  mathematics  or  symbolic  logic.  Its  ideal  is  such  a  universal 
language  as  the  characteristica  universalis  which  Leibniz  had 
begun  to  plan  as  early  as  the  late  seventeenth  century.  Compared 
to  scientific  language,  literary  language  will  appear  in  some  ways 
deficient.  It  abounds  in  ambiguities ;  it  is,  like  every  other  his- 
torical language,  full  of  homonyms,  arbitrary  or  irrational  cate- 
gories such  as  grammatical  gender;  it  is  permeated  with  histori- 
cal accidents,  memories,  and  associations.  In  a  word,  it  is  highly 
"connotative."  Moreover,  literary  language  is  far  from  merely 
referential.  It  has  its  expressive  side;  it  conveys  the  tone  and 
attitude  of  the  speaker  or  writer.  And  it  does  not  merely  state 
and  express  what  it  says;  it  also  wants  to  influence  the  attitude 
of  the  reader,  persuade  him,  and  ultimately  change  him.  There 
is  a  further  important  distinction  between  literary  and  scientific 
language:  in  the  former,  the  sign  itself,  the  sound  symbolism  of 
the  word,  is  stressed.  All  kinds  of  techniques  have  been  invented 
to  draw  attention  to  it,  such  as  meter,  alliteration,  and  patterns 
of  sound. 

These  distinctions  from  scientific  language  may  be  made  in 
different  degrees  by  various  works  of  literary  art:  for  example, 
the  sound  pattern  will  be  less  important  in  a  novel  than  in  certain 
lyrical  poems,  impossible  of  adequate  translation.  The  expressive 


The  Nature  of  Literature  1 3 

element  will  be  far  less  in  an  "objective  novel,"  which  may  dis- 
guise and  almost  conceal  the  attitude  of  the  writer,  than  in  a 
"personal"  lyric.  The  pragmatic  element,  slight  in  "pure"  poetry, 
may  be  large  in  a  novel  with  a  purpose  or  a  satirical  or  didactic 
poem.  Furthermore,  the  degree  to  which  the  language  is  intel- 
lectualized  may  vary  considerably:  there  are  philosophical  and 
didactic  poems  which  cannot  be  excluded  from  literature,  which 
yet  approximate,  at  least  occasionally,  the  scientific  use  of  lan- 
guage. Still,  whatever  the  mixed  modes  apparent  upon  an  exami- 
nation of  concrete  literary  works  of  art,  the  distinctions  between 
the  literary  use  and  the  scientific  use  seem  clear:  literary  language 
is  far  more  deeply  involved  in  the  historical  structure  of  the 
language  j  it  stresses  the  awareness  of  the  sign  itself ;  it  has  its 
expressive  and  pragmatic  side  which  scientific  language  will 
always  want  so  far  as  possible  to  minimize. 

More  difficult  to  establish  is  the  distinction  between  everyday 
and  literary  language.  Everyday  language  is  not  a  uniform  con- 
cept: it  includes  such  wide  variants  as  colloquial  language,  the 
language  of  commerce,  official  language,  the  language  of  re- 
ligion, the  slang  of  students.  But  obviously  much  that  has  been 
said  about  literary  language  holds  also  for  the  other  uses  of 
language  excepting  the  scientific.  Everyday  language  also  has 
its  expressive  function,  though  this  varies  from  a  colorless  of- 
ficial announcement  to  the  passionate  plea  roused  by  a  moment 
of  emotional  crisis.  Everyday  language  is  full  of  the  irrationali- 
ties and  contextual  changes  of  historical  language,  though  there 
are  moments  when  it  aims  at  almost  the  precision  of  scientific 
description.  Only  occasionally  is  there  awareness  of  the  signs 
themselves  in  everyday  speech.  Yet  such  awareness  does  ap- 
pear— in  the  sound  symbolism  of  names  and  actions.  No  doubt, 
everyday  language  wants  most  frequently  to  achieve  results,  to 
influence  actions  and  attitudes.  But  it  would  be  false  to  limit  it 
merely  to  communication.  A  child's  talking  for  hours  without  a 
listener  and  an  adult's  almost  meaningless  social  chatter  show 
that  there  are  many  uses  of  language  which  are  not  strictly,  or 
at  least  primarily,  communicative. 

It  is  thus  quantitatively  that  literary  language  is  first  of  all 
to  be  differentiated  from  the  varied  uses  of  every  day.  The  re- 
sources of  language  are  exploited  much  more  deliberately  and 


1 4  Theory  of  Literature 

systematically.  In  the  work  of  a  subjective  poet,  we  have  mani- 
fest a  "personality"  far  more  coherent  and  all-pervasive  than 
persons  as  we  see  them  in  everyday  situations.  Certain  types  of 
poetry  will  use  paradox,  ambiguity,  the  contextual  change  of 
meaning,  even  the  irrational  association  of  grammatical  cate- 
gories such  as  gender  or  tense,  quite  deliberately.  Poetic  lan- 
guage organizes,  tightens,  the  resources  of  everyday  language, 
and  sometimes  does  even  violence  to  them,  in  an  effort  to  force 
us  into  awareness  and  attention.  Many  of  these  resources  a  writer 
will  find  formed,  and  preformed,  by  the  silent  and  anonymous 
workings  of  many  generations.  In  certain  highly  developed  lit- 
eratures, and  especially  in  certain  epochs,  the  poet  merely  uses 
an  established  convention:  the  language,  so  to  speak,  poeticizes 
for  him.  Still,  every  work  of  art  imposes  an  order,  an  organiza- 
tion, a  unity  on  its  materials.  This  unity  sometimes  seems  very 
loose,  as  in  many  sketches  or  adventure  stories  j  but  it  increases 
to  the  complex,  close-knit  organization  of  certain  poems,  in 
which  it  may  be  almost  impossible  to  change  a  word  or  the  posi- 
tion of  a  word  without  impairing  its  total  effect. 

The  pragmatic  distinction  between  literary  language  and 
everyday  language  is  much  clearer.  We  reject  as  poetry  or  label 
as  mere  rhetoric  everything  which  persuades  us  to  a  definite 
outward  action.  Genuine  poetry  affects  us  more  subtly.  Art  im- 
poses some  kind  of  framework  which  takes  the  statement  of  the 
work  out  of  the  world  of  reality.  Into  our  semantic  analysis  we 
thus  can  reintroduce  some  of  the  common  conceptions  of  aesthet- 
ics: "disinterested  contemplation,"  "aesthetic  distance,"  "fram- 
ing." Again,  however,  we  must  realize  that  the  distinction 
between  art  and  non-art,  between  literature  and  the  non-literary 
linguistic  utterance,  is  fluid.  The  aesthetic  function  may  extend  to 
linguistic  pronouncements  of  the  most  various  sort.  It  would  be 
a  narrow  conception  of  literature  to  exclude  all  propaganda  art 
or  didactic  and  satirical  poetry.  We  have  to  recognize  transitional 
forms  like  the  essay,  biography,  and  much  rhetorical  literature. 
In  different  periods  of  history  the  realm  of  the  aesthetic  function 
seems  to  expand  or  to  contract :  the  personal  letter,  at  times,  was 
an  art  form,  as  was  the  sermon,  while  today,  in  agreement  with 
the  contemporary  tendency  against  the  confusion  of  genres, 
there  appears  a  narrowing  of  the  aesthetic  function,  a  marked 


The  Nature  of  Literature  1 5 

stress  on  purity  of  art,  a  reaction  against  pan-aestheticism  and  its 
claims  as  voiced  by  the  aesthetics  of  the  late  nineteenth  century. 
It  seems,  however,  best  to  consider  as  literature  only  works  in 
which  the  aesthetic  function  is  dominant,  while  we  can  recognize 
that  there  are  aesthetic  elements,  such  as  style  and  composition, 
in  works  which  have  a  completely  different,  non-aesthetic  pur- 
pose, such  as  scientific  treatises,  philosophical  dissertations,  politi- 
cal pamphlets,  sermons. 

But  the  nature  of  literature  emerges  most  clearly  under  the 
referential  aspect.  The  center  of  literary  art  is  obviously  to  be 
found  in  the  traditional  genres  of  the  lyric,  the  epic,  the  drama. 
In  all  of  them,  the  reference  is  to  a  world  of  fiction,  of  imagina- 
tion. The  statements  in  a  novel,  in  a  poem,  or  in  a  drama  are  not 
literally  true  5  they  are  not  logical  propositions.  There  is  a  cen- 
tral and  important  difference  between  a  statement,  even  in  a 
historical  novel  or  a  novel  by  Balzac  which  seems  to  convey 
"information"  about  actual  happenings,  and  the  same  informa- 
tion appearing  in  a  book  of  history  or  sociology.  Even  in  the  sub- 
jective lyric,  the  "I"  of  the  poet  is  a  fictional,  dramatic  "I."  A 
character  in  a  novel  differs  from  a  historical  figure  or  a  figure  in 
real  life.  He  is  made  only  of  the  sentences  describing  him  or  put 
into  his  mouth  by  the  author.  He  has  no  past,  no  future,  and 
sometimes  no  continuity  of  life.  This  elementary  reflection  dis- 
poses of  much  criticism  devoted  to  Hamlet  in  Wittenberg,  the 
influence  of  Hamlet's  father  on  his  son,  the  slim  and  young 
Falstaff  in  Maurice  Morgann's  absurdly  overpraised  essay,  "The 
Girlhood  of  Shakespeare's  Heroines,"  the  question  of  "how 
many  children  had  Lady  Macbeth."  4  Time  and  space  in  a  novel 
are  not  those  of  real  life.  Even  an  apparently  most  realistic 
novel,  the  very  "slice  of  life"  of  the  naturalist,  is  constructed 
according  to  certain  artistic  conventions.  Especially  from  a  later 
historical  perspective  we  see  how  similar  are  naturalistic  novels 
in  choice  of  theme,  type  of  characterization,  events  selected  or 
admitted,  ways  of  conducting  dialogue.  We  discern,  likewise,  the 
extreme  conventionality  of  even  the  most  naturalistic  drama  not 
only  in  its  assumption  of  a  scenic  frame  but  in  the  way  space 
and  time  are  handled,  the  way  even  the  supposedly  realistic  dia- 
logue is  selected  and  conducted,  and  the  way  characters  enter 
and  leave  the  stage.5  Whatever  the  distinctions  between  The 


1 6  Theory  of  Literature 

Tempest  and  A  Doll's  House,  they  share  in  this  dramatic  con- 
ventionality. 

If  we  recognize  "nationality,"  "invention,"  or  "imagination"  as 
the  distinguishing  trait  of  literature,  we  think  thus  of  literature 
in  terms  of  Homer,  Dante,  Shakespeare,  Balzac,  Keats  rather 
than  of  Cicero  or  Montaigne,  Bossuet,  or  Emerson.  Admittedly, 
there  will  be  "boundary"  cases,  works  like  Plato's  Republic  to 
which  it  would  be  difficult  to  deny,  at  least  in  the  great  myths, 
passages  of  "invention"  and  "fictionality,"  while  they  are  at 
the  same  time  primarily  works  of  philosophy.  This  conception 
of  literature  is  descriptive,  not  evaluative.  No  wrong  is  done  to 
a  great  and  influential  work  by  relegating  it  to  rhetoric,  to 
philosophy,  to  political  pamphleteering,  all  of  which  may  pose 
problems  of  aesthetic  analysis,  of  stylistics  and  composition,  simi- 
lar or  identical  to  those  presented  by  literature,  but  where  the 
central  quality  of  fictionality  will  be  absent.  This  conception 
will  thus  include  in  it  all  kinds  of  fiction,  even  the  worst  novel, 
the  worst  poem,  the  worst  drama.  Classification  as  art  should  be 
distinguished  from  evaluation. 

One  common  misunderstanding  must  be  removed.  "Imagina- 
tive" literature  need  not  use  images.  Poetic  language  is  per- 
meated with  imagery,  beginning  with  the  simplest  figures  and 
culminating  in  the  total  all-inclusive  mythological  systems  of  a 
Blake  or  Yeats.  But  imagery  is  not  essential  to  fictional  state- 
ment and  hence  to  much  literature.  There  are  good  completely 
imageless  poems  j  there  is  even  a  "poetry  of  statement." 
Imagery,  besides,  should  not  be  confused  with  actual,  sensuous, 
visual  image-making.  Under  the  influence  of  Hegel,  nineteenth- 
century  aestheticians  such  as  Vischer  and  Eduard  von  Hartmann 
argued  that  all  art  is  the  "sensuous  shining  forth  of  the  idea," 
while  another  school  (Fiedler,  Hildebrand,  Riehl)  spoke  of  all 
art  as  "pure  visibility."  6  But  much  great  literature  does  not  evoke 
sensuous  images,  or,  if  it  does,  it  does  so  only  incidentally,  oc- 
casionally, and  intermittently.7.  In  the  depiction  even  of  a  fic- 
tional character  the  writer  may  not  suggest  visual  images  at  all. 
We  scarcely  can  visualize  any  of  Dostoevsky's  or  Henry  James's 
characters,  while  we  learn  to  know  their  states  of  mind,  their 
motivations,  evaluations,  attitudes,  and  desires  very  completely. 

At  the  most,  a  writer  suggests  some  schematized  outline  or 


The  Nature  of  Literature  I J 

one  single  physical  trait — the  frequent  practice  of  Tolstoy  or 
Thomas  Mann.  The  fact  that  we  object  to  many  illustrations, 
though  by  good  artists  and,  in  some  cases  (e.g.,  Thackeray's), 
even  by  the  author  himself,  shows  that  the  writer  presents  us 
only  with  such  a  schematized  outline  as  is  not  meant  to  be  filled 
out  in  detail. 

If  we  had  to  visualize  every  metaphor  in  poetry  we  would 
become  completely  bewildered  and  confused.  While  there  are 
readers  given  to  visualizing  and  there  are  passages  in  literature 
where  such  imaginings  seem  required  by  the  text,  the  psycho- 
logical question  should  not  be  confused  with  analysis  of  the 
poet's  symbolic  devices.  These  devices  are  largely  the  organiza- 
tion of  mental  processes  which  occur  also  outside  of  literature. 
Thus  metaphor  is  latent  in  much  of  our  everyday  language  and 
overt  in  slang  and  popular  proverbs.  The  most  abstract  terms, 
by  metaphorical  transfer,  derive  from  ultimately  physical  rela- 
tionships {comprehend,  define,  eliminate,  substance,  subject,  hy- 
pothesis}. Poetry  revives  and  makes  us  conscious  of  this  meta- 
phorical character  of  language,  just  as  it  uses  the  symbols  and 
myths  of  our  civilization:  Classical,  Teutonic,  Celtic,  and 
Christian. 

All  these  distinctions  between  literature  and  non-literature 
which  we  have  discussed — personal  expression,  realization  and 
exploitation  of  the  medium,  lack  of  practical  purpose,  and,  of 
course,  fictionality — are  restatements,  within  a  framework  of 
semantic  analysis,  of  age-old  aesthetic  terms  such  as  "unity  in 
variety,"  "disinterested  contemplation,"  "aesthetic  distance," 
"framing,"  and  "invention,"  "imitation."  Each  of  them  de- 
scribes one  aspect  of  the  literary  work,  one  characteristic  feature 
of  its  semantic  directions.  None  is  itself  satisfactory.  At  least  one 
result  should  emerge:  a  literary  work  of  art  is  not  a  simple 
object  but  rather  a  highly  complex  organization  of  a  stratified 
character  with  multiple  meanings  and  relationships.  The  usual 
terminology,  which  speaks  of  an  "organism,"  is  somewhat  mis- 
leading, since  it  stresses  only  one  aspect,  that  of  "unity  in  va- 
riety," and  leads  to  biological  parallels  not  always  relevant. 
Furthermore,  the  "identity  of  content  and  form"  in  literature, 
though  the  phrase  draws  attention  to  the  close  interrelationships 
within  the  work  of  art,  is  misleading  in  being  overfacile.  It  en- 


1 8  Theory  of  Literature 

courages  the  illusion  that  the  analysis  of  any  element  of  an  arti- 
fact, whether  of  content  or  of  technique,  must  be  equally  useful, 
and  thus  absolves  us  from  the  obligation  to  see  the  work  in  its 
totality.  "Content"  and  "form"  are  terms  used  in  too  widely 
different  senses  for  them  to  be,  merely  juxtaposed,  helpful ;  in- 
deed, even  after  careful  definition,  they  too  simply  dichotomize 
the  work  of  art.  A  modern  analysis  of  the  work  of  art  has  to 
begin  with  more  complex  questions:  its  mode  of  existence,  its 
system  of  strata.8 


CHAPTER   III 

The  Function  of  Literature 

The  nature  and  the  function  of  literature  must,  in  any  co- 
herent discourse,  be  correlative.  The  use  of  poetry  follows  from 
its  nature:  every  object  or  class  of  objects  is  most  efficiently  and 
rationally  used  for  what  it  is,  or  is  centrally.  It  acquires  a  sec- 
ondary use  only  when  its  prime  function  has  lapsed:  the  old 
spinning  wheel  becomes  an  ornament,  or  a  specimen  in  a  mu- 
seum; the  square  piano,  no  longer  capable  of  music,  is  made 
into  a  useful  desk.  Similarly,  the  nature  of  an  object  follows  from 
its  use:  it  is  what  it  does.  An  artifact  has  the  structure  proper  to 
the  performance  of  its  function,  together  with  whatever  acces- 
sories time  and  materials  may  make  it  possible,  and  taste  may 
think  it  desirable,  to  add.  There  may  be  much  in  any  literary 
work  which  is  unnecessary  to  its  literary  function,  though  inter- 
esting or  defensible  on  other  grounds. 

Have  conceptions  of  the  nature  and  the  function  of  literature 
changed  in  the  course  of  history?  The  question  is  not  easy  to 
answer.  If  one  goes  far  enough  back,  one  can  say  yes 3  one  can 
reach  a  time  when  literature,  philosophy,  and  religion  exist  un- 
differentiated: among  the  Greeks,  Aeschylus  and  Hesiod  would 
perhaps  be  instances.  But  Plato  can  already  speak  of  the  quarrel 
between  the  poets  and  the  philosophers  as  an  ancient  quarrel  and 
mean  by  it  something  intelligible  to  us.  We  must  not,  on  the 
other  hand,  exaggerate  the  difference  made  by  doctrines  of  "art 
for  art's  sake"  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  or  more 
recent  doctrines  of  "foesie  'pure?  The  "didactic  heresy,"  as  Poe 
called  the  belief  in  poetry  as  an  instrument  of  edification,  is  not 
to  be  equated  with  the  traditional  Renaissance  doctrine  that  the 
poem  pleases  and  teaches  or  teaches  through  pleasing. 

On  the  whole,  the  reading  of  a  history  of  aesthetics  or  poetics 
leaves  one  with  the  impression  that  the  nature  and  the  function 
of  literature,  so  far  as  they  can  be  put  into  large  general  con- 

19 


20  Theory  of  Literature 

ceptual  terms,  for  comparison  and  contrast  with  other  human 
activities  and  values,  have  not  basically  changed. 

The  history  of  aesthetics  might  almost  be  summarized  as  a 
dialectic  in  which  the  thesis  and  counterthesis  are  Horace's  dulce 
and  utile:  poetry  is  sweet  and  useful.  Either  adjective  separately 
represents  a  polar  heresy  with  regard  to  the  function  of  poetry — 
probably  it  is  easier  to  correlate  dulce  et  utile  on  the  basis  of 
function  than  on  that  of  nature.  The  view  that  poetry  is  pleasure 
(analogous  to  any  other  pleasure)  answers  to  the  view  that 
poetry  is  instruction  (analogous  to  any  textbook).1  The  view 
that  all  poetry  is,  or  should  be,  propaganda  is  answered  by  the 
view  that  it  is,  or  should  be,  pure  sound  and  image — arabesque 
without  reference  to  the  world  of  human  emotions.  The  op- 
posing theses  reach  their  subtlest  versions,  perhaps,  in  the  views 
that  art  is  "play"  and  that  it  is  "work"  (the  "craft"  of  fiction, 
the  "work"  of  art).  Neither  view,  in  isolation,  can  possibly  seem 
acceptable.  Told  that  poetry  is  "play,"  spontaneous  amusement, 
we  feel  that  justice  has  been  done  neither  to  the  care,  skill,  and 
planning  of  the  artist  nor  to  the  seriousness  and  importance  of 
the  poem  5  but  told  that  poetry  is  "work"  or  "craft,"  we  feel 
the  violence  done  to  its  joy  and  what  Kant  called  its  "purpose- 
lessness."  We  must  describe  the  function  of  art  in  such  a  way 
as  to  do  justice  at  once  to  the  dulce  and  the  utile. 

The  Horatian  formula  itself  offers  a  helpful  start  if,  remem- 
bering that  precision  in  the  use  of  critical  terms  is  very  recent, 
we  give  the  Horatian  terms  an  extension  generous  enough  to 
encompass  Roman  and  Renaissance  creative  practice.  The  use- 
fulness of  art  need  not  be  thought  to  lie  in  the  enforcement 
of  such  a  moral  lesson  as  Le  Bossu  held  to  be  Homer's  reason 
for  writing  the  Iliad ,  or  even  such  as  Hegel  found  in  his 
favorite  tragedy,  Antigone.  "Useful"  is  equivalent  to  "not  a 
waste  of  time,"  not  a  form  of  "passing  the  time,"  something 
deserving  of  serious  attention.  "Sweet"  is  equivalent  to  "not  a 
bore,"  "not  a  duty,"  "its  own  reward." 

Can  we  use  this  double  criterion  as  a  basis  of  definition  of 
literature,  or  is  it  rather  a  criterion  of  great  literature?  In  older 
discussions,  the  distinctions  between  great,  good,  and  "sublit- 
erary"  literature  rarely  appear.  There  may  be  real  doubt 
whether  subliterary  literature  (the  pulp  magazine)  is  "useful" 


The  Function  of  Literature  2 1 

or  "instructive."  It  is  commonly  thought  of  as  sheer  "escape" 
and  "amusement."  But  the  question  has  to  be  answered  in  terms 
of  subliterary  readers,  not  in  those  of  readers  of  "good  litera- 
ture." Mortimer  Adler,  at  least,  would  find  a  noetic  element  in 
the  interest  of  the  least  intellectual  novel  reader.  And  as  for 
"escape,"  Kenneth  Burke  has  reminded  us  how  facile  a  charge 
that  may  become.  The  dream  of  escape  may  "assist  a  reader  to 
clarify  his  dislike  of  the  environment  in  which  he  is  placed.  The 
artist  can  .  .  ,  become  'subversive'  by  merely  singing,  in  all 
innocence,  of  respite  by  the  Mississippi." 2  In  answer  to  our 
question,  it  is  probable  that  all  art  is  "sweet"  and  "useful"  to  its 
appropriate  users:  that  what  it  articulates  is  superior  to  their 
own  self-induced  reverie  or  reflection;  that  it  gives  them  pleas- 
ure by  the  skill  with  which  it  articulates  what  they  take  to  be 
something  like  their  own  reverie  or  reflection  and  by  the  release 
they  experience  through  this  articulation. 

When  a  work  of  literature  functions  successfully,  the  two 
"notes"  of  pleasure  and  utility  should  not  merely  coexist  but 
coalesce.  The  pleasure  of  literature,  we  need  to  maintain,  is  not 
one  preference  among  a  long  list  of  possible  pleasures  but  is  a 
"higher  pleasure"  because  pleasure  in  a  higher  kind  of  activity, 
i.e.,  non-acquisitive  contemplation.  And  the  utility — the  serious- 
ness, the  instructiveness — of  literature  is  a  pleasurable  serious- 
ness, i.e.,  not  the  seriousness  of  a  duty  which  must  be  done  or  of 
a  lesson  to  be  learned  but  an  aesthetic  seriousness,  a  seriousness 
of  perception.  The  relativist  who  likes  difficult  modern  poetry 
oan  always  shrug  off  aesthetic  judgment  by  making  his  taste  a 
personal  preference,  on  the  level  of  crossword  puzzles  or  chess. 
The  educationist  may  falsely  locate  the  seriousness  of  a  great 
poem  or  novel,  as  in  the  historical  information  it  purveys  or  the 
helpful  moral  lesson. 

Another  point  of  importance:  Has  literature  a  function,  or 
functions?  In  his  Primer  for  Critics,  Boas  gaily  exposits  a  plural- 
ism of  interests  and  corresponding  types  of  criticism;  and,  at, 
the  end  of  his  Use  of  Poetry  and  the  Use  of  Criticism,  Eliot 
sadly,  or  at  least  wearily,  insists  on  the  "variety  of  poetry"  and 
the  variety  of  things  the  kinds  of  poetry  may  do  at  various  times. 
But  these  are  exceptions.  To  take  art,  or  literature,  or  poetry 
seriously  is,  ordinarily  at  least,  to  attribute  to  it  some  use  proper 


22  Theory  of  Literature 

to  itself.  Considering  Arnold's  view  that  poetry  could  supersede 
religion  and  philosophy,  Eliot  writes:  ".  .  .  nothing  in  this 
world  or  the  next  is  a  substitute  for  anything  else.  .  .  ."  3  That 
is,  no  real  category  of  value  has  a  real  equivalent.  There  are  no 
real  substitutes.  In  practice,  literature  can  obviously  take  the 
place  of  many  things — of  travel  or  sojourn  in  foreign  lands,  of 
direct  experience,  vicarious  life;  and  it  can  be  used  by  the  his- 
torian as  a  social  document.  But  has  literature  a  work,  a  use, 
which  nothing  else  does  as  well?  Or  is  it  an  amalgam  of  philos- 
ophy, history,  music,  and  imagery  which,  in  a  really  modern 
economy,  would  be  distributed?  This  is  the  basic  question. 

The  defenders  of  literature  will  believe  that  it  is  not  an  archaic 
survival  but  a  permanence,  and  so  will  many  who  are  neither 
poets  nor  teachers  of  poetry  and  who  therefore  lack  the  profes- 
sional interest  in  survival.  The  experience  of  unique  value  in 
literature  is  basic  to  any  theory  concerning  the  nature  of  the 
value.  Our  shifting  theories  attempt  to  do  progressively  better 
justice  to  the  experience. 

One  contemporary  line  asserts  the  use  and  seriousness  o£ 
poetry  by  finding  that  poetry  conveys  knowledge — a  kind  of 
knowledge.  Poetry  is  a  form  of  knowledge.  Aristotle  had  seemed 
to  say  something  like  that  in  his  famous  dictum  that  poetry  is 
more  philosophical  than  history,  since  history  "relates  things 
which  have  happened,  poetry  such  as  might  happen,"  the  general 
and  probable.  Now,  however,  when  history,  like  literature,  ap- 
pears a  loose,  ill-defined  discipline,  and  when  science,  rather,  is 
the  impressive  rival,  it  is,  rather,  contended  that  literature  gives 
a  knowledge  of  those  particularities  with  which  science  and 
philosophy  are  not  concerned.  While  a  neoclassical  theorist  like 
Dr.  Johnson  could  still  think  of  poetry  in  terms  of  the  "grandeur 
of  generality,"  modern  theorists,  of  many  schools  (e.g.,  Gilby, 
Ransom,  Stace),  all  stress  the  particularity  of  poetry.  Says  Stace, 
the  play  Othello  is  not  about  jealousy  but  about  Othello's  jeal- 
ousy, the  particular  kind  of  jealousy  a  Moor  married  to  a 
Venetian  might  feel.4 

The  typicality  of  literature  or  the  particularity:  literary  theory 
and  apologetics  may  stress  one  or  the  other;  for  literature,  one 
may  say,  is  more  general  than  history  and  biography  but  more 
particularized  than  psychology  or  sociology.  But  not  only  are 


The  Function  of  Literature  23 

there  shifts  in  the  stress  of  literary  theory.  In  literary  practice, 
the  specific  degree  of  generality  or  particularity  shifts  from  work 
to  work  and  period  to  period.  Pilgrim  and  Everyman  undertake 
to  be  mankind.  But  Morose,  the  "humorist"  of  Jonson's  Epi- 
coene,  is  a  very  special  and  idiosyncratic  person.  The  principle  of 
characterization  in  literature  has  always  been  defined  as  that  of 
combining  the  "type"  with  the  "individual" — showing  the  type 
in  the  individual  or  the  individual  in  the  type.  The  attempts  at 
interpreting  this  principle,  or  specific  dogmas  derived  from  it, 
have  not  been  very  helpful.  Literary  typologies  go  back  to  the 
Horatian  doctrine  of  decorum,  and  to  the  repertory  of  types  in 
Roman  comedy  (e.g.,  the  bragging  soldier,  the  miser,  the  spend- 
thrift and  romantic  son,  the  confidential  servant).  We  recognize 
the  typological  again  in  the  character  books  of  the  seventeenth 
century  and  in  the  comedies  of  Moliere.  But  how  to  apply  the 
concept  more  generally?  Is  the  nurse  in  Romeo  and  Juliet  a 
type?  If  so,  of  what?  Is  Hamlet  a  type?  Apparently,  for  an 
Elizabethan  audience,  a  melancholiac,  something  as  described  by 
Dr.  Timothy  Bright.  But  he  is  many  other  things  also,  and  his 
melancholy  is  given  a  particular  genesis  and  context.  In  some 
sense,  the  character  which  is  an  individual  as  well  as  a  type  is 
so  constituted  by  being  shown  to  be  many  types:  Hamlet  is  also 
a  lover,  or  former  lover,  a  scholar,  a  connoisseur  of  the  drama, 
a  fencer.  Every  man  is  a  convergence  or  nexus  of  types — even 
the  simplest  man.  So-called  character  types  are  seen  "flat,"  as 
all  of  us  see  people  with  whom  we  have  relations  of  a  single 
kind ;  "round"  characters  combine  views  and  relations,  are  shown 
in  different  contexts — public  life,  private,  foreign  lands.5 

One  cognitive  value  in  the  drama  and  novels  would  seem  to 
be  psychological.  "The  novelists  can  teach  you  more  about 
human  nature  than  the  psychologists"  is  a  familiar  kind  of 
assertion.  Horney  recommends  Dostoevsky,  Shakespeare,  Ibsen, 
and  Balzac  as  inexhaustible  sources.  E.  M.  Forster  (Aspects  of 
the  Novel)  speaks  of  the  very  limited  number  of  persons  whose 
inner  life  and  motivations  we  know,  and  sees  it  as  the  great 
service  of  the  novel  that  it  does  reveal  the  introspective  life  of 
the  characters.6  Presumably  the  inner  lives  he  assigns  his  char- 
acters are  drawn  out  of  his  own  vigilant  introspection.  One  might 
maintain  that  the  great  novels  are  source  books  for  psychologists, 


24  Theory  of  Literature 

or  that  they  are  case  histories  (i.e.,  illustrative,  typical  examples). 
But  here  we  seem  to  come  back  to  the  fact  that  psychologists  will 
use  the  novel  only  for  its  generalized  typical  value:  they  will 
draw  off  the  character  of  Pere  Goriot  from  the  total  setting  (the 
Maison  Vauquer)  and  context  of  characters. 

Max  Eastman,  himself  a  minor  poet,  would  deny  that  the 
"literary  mind"  can,  in  an  age  of  science,  lay  claim  to  the  dis- 
covery of  truth.  The  "literary  mind"  is  simply  the  unspecialized, 
amateur  mind  of  prescientific  days  attempting  to  persist  and  tak- 
ing advantage  of  its  verbal  facility  to  create  the  impression  that 
it  is  uttering  the  really  important  "truths."  Truth  in  literature 
is  the  same  as  truth  outside  of  literature,  i.e.,  systematic  and  pub- 
licly verifiable  knowledge.  The  novelist  has  no  magic  short  cut  to 
that  present  state  of  knowledge  in  the  social  sciences  which  con- 
stitutes the  "truth"  against  which  his  "world,"  his  fictional  real- 
ity, is  to  be  checked.  But  then,  believes  Eastman,  the  imaginative 
writer — and  especially  the  poet — misunderstands  himself  if  he 
thinks  of  his  prime  office  as  that  of  discovering  and  communi- 
cating knowledge.  His  real  function  is  to  make  us  perceive  what 
we  see,  imagine  what  we  already,  conceptually  or  practically, 
know.7 

It  is  difficult  to  draw  the  line  between  views  of  poetry  as 
realization  of  the  given  and  views  of  poetry  as  "artistic  insight." 
Does  the  artist  remind  us  of  what  we  have  ceased  to  perceive 
or  make  us  see  what,  though  it  was  there  all  the  time,  we  had  not 
seen?  One  remembers  the  black  and  white  drawings  in  which 
there  are  concealed  figures  or  faces  composed  of  dots  and  broken 
lines:  they  were  there  all  the  time,  but  one  did  not  see  them  as 
wholes,  as  designs.  In  his  Intentions,  Wilde  cites  Whistler's 
discovery  of  aesthetic  value  in  fog,  of  the  Pre-Raphaelite  discov- 
ery of  beauty  in  types  of  women  hitherto  not  seen  as  beautiful  or 
as  types.  Are  these  instances  of  "knowledge"  or  "truth"?  We 
hesitate.  They  are  discoveries  of  new  "perceptual  values,"  we 
say,  of  new  "aesthetic  qualities." 

One  sees  generally  why  aestheticians  hesitate  to  deny  "truth" 
as  a  property  and  a  criterion  of  art:  8  partly,  it  is  an  honorific 
term,  and  one  registers  one's  serious  respect  for  art,  one's  ap- 
prehension of  it  as  one  of  the  supreme  values,  by  the  attribution; 
and  partly,  one  is  illogically  fearful  that  if  art  isn't  "true"  it  is 


The  Function  of  Literature  25 

a  "lie,"  as  Plato,  in  violence,  called  it.  Imaginative  literature  is 
a  "fiction,"  an  artistic,  verbal  "imitation  of  life."  The  opposite 
of  "fiction"  is  not  "truth"  but  "fact"  or  "time  and  space  exist- 
ence." "Fact"  is  stranger  than  the  probability  with  which  litera- 
ture must  deal.9 

Among  the  arts,  literature,  specifically,  seems  also  to  claim 
"truth"  through  the  view  of  life  (W eltanschauung)  which  every 
artistically  coherent  work  possesses.  The  philosopher  or  critic 
must  think  some  of  these  "views"  truer  than  others  (as  Eliot 
thinks  Dante's  truer  than  Shelley's  or  even  than  Shakespeare's)  3 
but  any  mature  philosophy  of  life  must  have  some  measure  of 
truth — at  any  event  it  lays  claim  to  it.  The  truth  of  literature,  as 
we  are  now  considering  it,  seems  to  be  the  truth  in  literature — 
the  philosophy  which  exists,  in  systematic  conceptual  form,  out- 
side of  literature  but  may  be  applied  to  or  illustrated  by  or  em- 
bodied in  literature.  In  this  sense,  the  truth  in  Dante  is  Catholic 
theology  and  scholastic  philosophy.  Eliot's  view  of  poetry  in  its 
relation  to  "truth"  seems  essentially  of  this  sort.  Truth  is  the 
province  of  systematic  thinkers ;  and  artists  are  not  such  thinkers, 
though  they  may  try  to  be  if  there  are  no  philosophers  whose 
work  they  can  suitably  assimilate.10 

The  whole  controversy  would  appear,  in  large  measure,  se- 
mantic. What  do  we  mean  by  "knowledge,"  "truth,"  "cogni- 
tion," "wisdom"?  If  all  truth  is  conceptual  and  propositional, 
then  the  arts — even  the  art  of  literature — can't  be  forms  of 
truth.  Again:  if  positivist  reductive  definitions  are  accepted, 
limiting  truth  to  that  which  can  be  methodically  verified  by  any- 
one, then  art  can't  be  a  form  of  truth  experimentally.  The 
alternative  to  these  seems  some  bi-modal  or  pluri-modal  truth: 
there  are  various  "ways  of  knowing"  5  or  there  are  two  basic 
types  of  knowledge,  each  of  which  uses  a  language  system  of 
signs:  the  sciences,  which  use  the  "discursive"  mode,  and  the 
arts,  which  use  the  "presentational."  X1  Are  these  both  truth? 
The  former  is  what  philosophers  have  ordinarily  meant,  while 
the  latter  takes  care  of  religious  "myth"  as  well  as  poetry.  We 
might  call  the  latter  "true"  rather  than  "the  truth."  The  adjec- 
tival quality  would  express  the  distinction  in  center  of  balance: 
art  is  substantively  beautiful  and  adjectively  true  (i.e.,  it  doesn't 
conflict  with  the  truth).  In  his  "Ars  Poetica,"  MacLeish  at- 


26  Theory  of  Literature 

tempts  to  adjust  the  claims  of  literary  beauty  and  philosophy 
by  the  formula,  a  poem  is  "equal  to:  not  true":  poetry  is  as 
serious  and  important  as  philosophy  (science,  knowledge,  wis- 
dom) and  possesses  the  equivalence  of  truth,  is  truth-like. 

Mrs.  Langer  stresses  the  plastic  arts  and,  still  more,  music, 
rather  than  literature,  in  her  plea  for  presentational  symbolism 
as  a  form  of  knowledge.  Presumably  she  thinks  of  literature  as 
in  some  way  a  mixture  of  "discursive"  and  "presentational." 
But  the  mythic  element,  or  archetypal  images,  of  literature 
would  correspond  to  her  presentational.  "Men  who  follow  the 
sea,"  she  writes,  "have  often  a  deep  love  for  that  hard  life.  But 
in  their  dangerous  calling  they  feel  secure;  in  their  comfortless 
quarters  they  are  at  ease.  Waters  and  ships,  heaven  and  storm 
and  harbor,  somehow  contain  the  symbols  through  which  they 
see  meaning  and  sense  in  the  world.  .  .  ."  12 

From  views  that  art  is  revelation  or  insight  into  the  truth  we 
should  distinguish  the  view  that  art — specifically  literature — is 
propaganda,  the  view,  that  is,  that  the  writer  is  not  the  discov- 
erer but  the  persuasive  purveyor  of  the  truth.  The  term  "propa- 
ganda" is  loose  and  needs  scrutiny.  In  popular  speech,  it  is 
applied  only  to  doctrines  viewed  as  pernicious  and  spread  by  men 
whom  we  distrust.  The  word  implies  calculation,  intention,  and 
is  usually  applied  to  specific,  rather  restricted  doctrines  or  pro- 
grams.13 So  limiting  the  sense  of  the  term,  one  might  say  that 
some  art  (the  lowest  kind)  is  propaganda,  but  that  no  great 
art,  or  good  art,  or  Art,  can  possibly  be.  If,  however,  we  stretch 
the  term  to  mean  "effort,  whether  conscious  or  not,  to  influence 
readers  to  share  one's  attitude  toward  life,"  then  there  is  plausi- 
bility in  the  contention  that  all  artists  are  propagandists  or 
should  be,  or  (in  complete  reversal  of  the  position  outlined  in 
the  preceding  sentence)  that  all  sincere,  responsible  artists  are 
morally  obligated  to  be  propagandists. 

According  to  Montgomery  Belgion,  the  literary  artist  is  an 
"  'irresponsible  propagandist.'  That  is  to  say,  every  writer  adopts 
a  view  or  theory  of  life.  .  .  .  The  effect  of  the  work  is  always 
to  persuade  the  reader  to  accept  that  view  or  theory.  This  per- 
suasion is  always  illicit.  That  is  to  say,  the  reader  is  always  led 
to  believe  something,  and  that  assent  is  hypnotic — the  art  of  the 
presentation  seduces  the  reader.  .  .  ."  Eliot,  who  quotes  Bel- 


The  Function  of  Literature  27 

gion,  replies  by  distinguishing  "poets  whom  it  is  a  strain  to  think 
of  as  propagandists  at  all"  from  irresponsible  propagandists,  and 
a  third  group  who,  like  Lucretius  and  Dante,  are  "particularly 
conscious  and  responsible"  propagandists  5  and  Eliot  makes  the 
judgment  of  responsibility  depend  on  both  auctorial  intention 
and  historic  effect.14  "Responsible  propagandist"  would  seem  to 
most  people  a  contradiction  in  terms ;  but,  interpreted  as  a  tension 
of  pulls,  it  makes  a  point.  Serious  art  implies  a  view  of  life  which 
can  be  stated  in  philosophical  terms,  even  in  terms  of  systems.15 
Between  artistic  coherence  (what  is  sometimes  called  "artistic 
logic")  and  philosophical  coherence  there  is  some  kind  of  cor- 
relation. The  responsible  artist  has  no  will  to  confuse  emotion 
and  thinking,  sensibility  and  intellection,  sincerity  of  feeling  with 
adequacy  of  experience  and  reflection.  The  view  of  life  which  the 
responsible  artist  articulates  perceptually  is  not,  like  most  views 
which  have  popular  success  as  "propaganda,"  simple;  and  an 
adequately  complex  vision  of  life  cannot,  by  hypnotic  suggestion, 
move  to  premature  or  naive  action. 

It  remains  to  consider  those  conceptions  of  the  function  of 
literature  clustered  about  the  word  "catharsis."  The  word — 
Aristotle's  Greek,  in  the  Poetics — has  had  a  long  history.  The 
exegesis  of  Aristotle's  use  of  the  word  remains  in  dispute;  but 
what  Aristotle  may  have  meant,  an  exegetical  problem  of  inter- 
est, need  not  be  confounded  with  the  problems  to  which  the  term 
has  come  to  be  applied.  The  function  of  literature,  some  say,  is 
to  relieve  us — either  writers  or  readers — from  the  pressure  of 
emotions.  To  express  emotions  is  to  get  free  of  them,  as  Goethe 
is  said  to  have  freed  himself  from  Weltschmerz  by  composing 
The  Sorrows  of  Werther.  And  the  spectator  of  a  tragedy  or  the 
reader  of  a  novel  is  also  said  to  experience  release  and  relief.  His 
emotions  have  been  provided  with  focus,  leaving  him,  at  the  end 
of  his  aesthetic  experience,  with  "calm  of  mind."  16 

But  does  literature  relieve  us  of  emotions  or,  instead,  incite 
them?  Tragedy  and  comedy,  Plato  thought,  "nourish  and  water 
our  emotions  when  we  ought  to  dry  them  up."  Or,  if  literature 
relieves  us  of  our  emotions,  are  they  not  wrongly  discharged 
when  they  are  expended  on  poetic  fictions?  As  a  youth,  St. 
Augustine  confesses,  he  lived  in  mortal  sin;  yet  "all  this  I  wept 
not,  I  who  wept  for  Dido  slain.  .  .  ."  Is  some  literature  in- 


28  Theory  of  Literature 

citory  and  some  cathartic,  or  are  we  to  distinguish  between 
groups  of  readers  and  the  nature  of  their  response?  17  Again: 
should  all  art  be  cathartic?  These  are  problems  for  treatment 
under  "The  Relation  of  Literature  to  Psychology"  and  "The 
Relation  of  Literature  to  Society" ;  but  they  have,  preliminarily, 
to  be  raised  now. 

That,  for  proper  readers,  literature  does  not  and  should  not 
incite  the  emotions  is  our  hypothetical  answer.  Emotions  repre- 
sented in  literature  are,  neither  for  writer  nor  for  reader,  the 
same  as  emotions  in  "real  life";  they  are  "recollected  in  tran- 
quillity" ;  they  are  "expressed" — that  is,  released — by  analysis ; 
they  are  the  feelings  of  emotions,  the  perceptions  of  emotions. 

To  conclude:  the  question  concerning  the  function  of  literature 
has  a  long  history — in  the  Western  world,  from  Plato  down  to 
the  present.  It  is  not  a  question  instinctively  raised  by  the  poet 
or  by  those  who  like  poetry;  for  such,  "Beauty  is  its  own  excuse, 
for  being,"  as  Emerson  was  once  drawn  into  saying.  The  ques- 
tion is  put,  rather,  by  utilitarians  and  moralists,  or  by  statesmen 
and  philosophers,  that  is,  by  the  representatives  of  other  special 
values  or  the  speculative  arbiters  of  all  values.  What,  they  ask, 
is  the  use  of  poetry  anyhow — cm  bono?  And  they  ask  the  ques- 
tion at  the  full  social  or  human  dimension.  Thus  challenged,  the 
poet  and  the  instinctive  reader  of  poetry  are  forced,  as  morally 
and  intellectually  responsible  citizens,  to  make  some  reasoned 
reply  to  the  community.  They  do  so  in  a  passage  of  an  Ars 
Poetica.  They  write  a  Defense  or  Afology  for  poetry:  the  lit- 
erary equivalent  of  what  is  called  in  theology  "apologetics."  18 
Writing  to  this  end  and  for  this  prospective  audience,  they  nat- 
urally stress  the  "use"  rather  than  the  "delight"  of  literature; 
and  hence  it  would  be  semantically  easy  today  to  equate  the 
"function"  of  literature  with  its  extrinsic  relations.  But  from  the 
Romantic  movement  on,  the  poet  has  often  given,  when  chal- 
lenged by  the  community,  a  different  answer:  the  answer  which 
A.  C.  Bradley  calls  "poetry  for  poetry's  sake";  19  and  theorists 
do  well  to  let  the  term  "function"  serve  the  whole  "apologetic" 
range.  So  using  the  word,  we  say,  poetry  has  many  possible 
functions.  Its  prime  and  chief  function  is  fidelity  to  its  own 
nature. 


CHAPTER   IV 

Literary  Theory,  Criticism,  and  History 

As  we  have  envisaged  a  rationale  for  the  study  of  literature, 
we  must  conclude  the  possibility  of  a  systematic  and  integrated 
study  of  literature.  English  affords  no  very  satisfactory  name 
for  this.  The  most  common  terms  for  it  are  "literary  scholar- 
ship" and  "philology."  The  former  term  is  objectionable  only 
because  it  seems  to  exclude  "criticism"  and  to  stress  the  academic 
nature  of  the  study ;  it  is  acceptable,  doubtless,  if  one  interprets 
the  term  "scholar"  as  inclusively  as  did  Emerson.  The  latter 
term,  "philology,"  is  open  to  many  misunderstandings.  His- 
torically, it  has  been  used  to  include  not  only  all  literary  and 
linguistic  studies  but  studies  of  all  products  of  the  human  mind. 
Though  its  greatest  vogue  was  in  nineteenth-century  Germany, 
it  still  survives  in  the  titles  of  such  reviews  as  Modem  Philology, 
Philological  Quarterly,  and  Studies  in  Philology.  Boekh,  who 
wrote  a  fundamental  Encyklof'ddie  und  Methodologie  der  fhi- 
lologischen  Wissenschaften  (1877,  but  based  on  lectures  partly 
dating  back  to  1809),1  defined  "philology"  as  the  "knowledge  of 
the  known"  and  hence  the  study  of  language  and  literatures, 
arts  and  politics,  religion  and  social  customs.  Practically  identical 
with  Greenlaw's  "literary  history,"  Boekh's  philology  is  ob- 
viously motivated  by  the  needs  of  classical  studies,  for  which  the 
help  of  history  and  archaeology  seems  particularly  necessary. 
With  Boekh,  literary  study  is  only  one  branch  of  philology, 
understood  as  a  total  science  of  civilization,  particularly  a  science 
of  what  he,  with  German  Romanticism,  called  the  "National 
Spirit."  Today,  because  of  its  etymology  and  much  of  the  actual 
work  of  specialists,  philology  is  frequently  understood  to  mean 
linguistics,  especially  historical  grammar  and  the  study  of  past 
forms  of  languages.  Since  the  term  has  so  many  and  such  diver- 
gent meanings,  it  is  best  to  abandon  it. 

Another  alternative  term  for  the  work  of  the  literary  scholar 

29 


30  Theory  of  Literature 

is  "research."  But  this  seems  particularly  unfortunate,  for  it 
stresses  the  merely  preliminary  search  for  materials  and  draws, 
or  seems  to  draw,  an  untenable  distinction  between  materials 
which  have  to  be  "searched  for"  and  those  which  are  easily 
available.  For  example,  it  is  "research"  when  one  visits  the 
British  Museum  to  read  a  rare  book,  while  it  apparently  involves 
a  different  mental  process  to  sit  at  home  in  an  armchair  and  read 
a  reprint  of  the  same  book.  At  most,  the  term  "research"  sug- 
gests certain  preliminary  operations,  the  extent  and  nature  of 
which  will  vary  greatly  with  the  nature  of  the  problem.  But  it 
ill  suggests  those  subtle  concerns  with  interpretation,  characteri- 
zation, and  evaluation  which  are  peculiarly  characteristic  of  lit- 
erary studies. 

Within  our  "proper  study,"  the  distinctions  between  literary 
theory,  criticism,  and  history  are  clearly  the  most  important. 
There  is,  first,  the  distinction  between  a  view  of  literature  as  a 
simultaneous  order  and  a  view  of  literature  which  sees  it  pri- 
marily as  a  series  of  works  arranged  in  a  chronological  order 
and  as  integral  parts  of  the  historical  process.  There  is,  then,  the 
further  distinction  between  the  study  of  the  principles  and 
criteria  of  literature  and  the  study  of  the  concrete  literary  works 
of  art,  whether  we  study  them  in  isolation  or  in  a  chronological 
series.  It  seems  best  to  draw  attention  to  these  distinctions  by 
describing  as  "literary  theory"  the  study  of  the  principles  of 
literature,  its  categories,  criteria,  and  the  like,  and  by  differen- 
tiating studies  of  concrete  works  of  art  as  either  "literary  criti- 
cism" (primarily  static  in  approach)  or  "literary  history."  Of 
course,  "literary  criticism"  is  frequently  used  in  such  a  way  as 
to  include  all  literary  theory ;  but  such  usage  ignores  a  useful 
distinction.  Aristotle  was  a  theorist  j  Sainte-Beuve,  primarily 
a  critic.  Kenneth  Burke  is  largely  a  literary  theorist,  while  R.  P. 
Blackmur  is  a  literary  critic.  The  term  "theory  of  literature" 
might  well  include — as  this  book  does — the  necessary  "theory 
of  literary  criticism"  and  "theory  of  literary  history." 

These  distinctions  are  fairly  obvious  and  rather  widely  ac- 
cepted. But  less  common  is  a  realization  that  the  methods  so 
designated  cannot  be  used  in  isolation,  that  they  implicate  each 
other  so  thoroughly  as  to  make  inconceivable  literary  theory 
without  criticism  or  history,  or  criticism  without  theory  and  his- 


Literary  Theory,  Critic'ismy  and  History  3 1 

tory,  or  history  without  theory  and  criticism.  Obviously,  literary 
theory  is  impossible  except  on  the  basis  of"  a  study  of  concrete 
literary  works.  Criteria,  categories,  and  schemes  cannot  be  ar- 
rived at  in  vacuo.  But,  conversely,  no  criticism  or  history  is  pos- 
sible without  some  set  of  questions,  some  system  of  concepts, 
some  points  of  reference,  some  generalizations.  There  is  here, 
of  course,  no  unsurmountable  dilemma:  we  always  read  with 
some  preconceptions,  and  we  always  change  and  modify  these 
preconceptions  upon  further  experience  of  literary  works.  The 
process  is  dialectical:  a  mutual  interpenetration  of  theory  and 
practice. 

There  have  been  attempts  to  isolate  literary  history  from 
theory  and  criticism.  For  example,  F.  W.  Bateson  2  argued  that 
literary  history  shows  A  to  derive  from  B,  while  criticism  pro- 
nounces A  to  be  better  than  B.  The  first  type,  according  to  this 
view,  deals  with  verifiable  facts  j  the  second,  with  matters  of 
opinion  and  faith.  But  this  distinction  is  quite  untenable.  There 
are  simply  no  data  in  literary  history  which  are  completely  neu- 
tral "facts."  Value  judgments  are  implied  in  the  very  choice  of 
materials:  in  the  simple  preliminary  distinction  between  books 
and  literature,  in  the  mere  allocation  of  space  to  this  or  that 
author.  Even  the  ascertaining  of  a  date  or  a  title  presupposes 
some  kind  of  judgment,  one  which  selects  this  particular  book  or 
event  from  the  millions  of  other  books  and  events.  Even  if  we 
grant  that  there  are  facts  comparatively  neutral,  facts  such  as 
dates,  titles,  biographical  events,  we  merely  grant  the  possi- 
bility of  compiling  the  annals  of  literature.  But  any  question  a 
little  more  advanced,  even  a  question  of  textual  criticism  or  of 
sources  and  influences,  requires  constant  acts  of  judgment.  Such 
a  statement,  for  example,  as  "Pope  derives  from  Dryden"  not 
only  presupposes  the  act  of  selecting  Dryden  and  Pope  out  of 
the  innumerable  versifiers  of  their  times,  but  requires  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  characteristics  of  Dryden  and  Pope  and  then  a  con- 
stant activity  of  weighing,  comparing,  and  selecting  which  is 
essentially  critical.  The  question  of  the  collaboration  of  Beau- 
mont and  Fletcher  is  insoluble  unless  we  accept  such  an  im- 
portant principle  as  that  certain  stylistic  traits  (or  devices)  are 
related  to  one  rather  than  to  the  other  of  the  two  writers  j  other- 


$2  Theory  of  Literature 

wise  we  have  to  accept  the  stylistic  differences  merely  as  matter 
of  fact. 

But  usually  the  case  for  the  isolation  of  literary  history  from 
literary  criticism  is  put  on  different  grounds.  It  is  not  denied 
that  acts  of  judgment  are  necessary,  but  it  is  argued  that  literary 
history  has  its  own  peculiar  standards  and  criteria,  i.e.,  those  of 
the  other  ages.  We  must,  these  literary  reconstructionists  argue, 
enter  into  the  mind  and  attitudes  of  past  periods  and  accept  their 
standards,  deliberately  excluding  the  intrusions  of  our  own  pre- 
conceptions. This  view,  called  "historicism,"  was  elaborated 
consistently  in  Germany  during  the  nineteenth  century,  though 
even  there  it  has  been  criticized  by  historical  theorists  of  such 
eminence  as  Ernst  Troeltsch.3  It  seems  now  to  have  penetrated 
directly  or  indirectly  into  the  United  States,  and  to  it  many  of 
our  "literary  historians"  more  or  less  clearly  profess  allegiance. 
Hardin  Craig,  for  instance,  said  that  the  newest  and  best  phase 
of  recent  scholarship  is  the  "avoidance  of  anachronistic  think- 
ing." 4  E.  E.  Stoll,  studying  the  conventions  of  the  Elizabethan 
stage  and  the  expectations  of  its  audience,  works  on  the  theory 
that  the  reconstruction  of  the  author's  intention  is  the  central 
purpose  of  literary  history.5  Some  such  theory  is  implied  in  the 
many  attempts  to  study  Elizabethan  psychological  theories,  such 
as  the  doctrine  of  humors,  or  of  the  scientific  or  pseudo-scientific 
conceptions  of  poets.6  Rosemond  Tuve  has  tried  to  explain 
the  origin  and  meaning  of  metaphysical  imagery  by  reference 
to  the  training  in  Ramist  logic  received  by  Donne  and  his  con- 
temporaries.7 

As  such  studies  cannot  but  convince  us  that  different  periods 
have  entertained  different  critical  conceptions  and  conventions, 
it  has  been  concluded  that  each  age  is  a  self-contained  unity 
expressed  through  its  own  type  of  poetry,  incommensurate  with 
any  other.  This  view  has  been  candidly  and  persuasively  ex- 
pounded by  Frederick  A.  Pottle  in  his  Idiom  of  Poetry.3  He 
calls  his  position  that  of  "critical  relativism,"  and  speaks  of  pro- 
found "shifts  of  sensibility,"  of  a  "total  discontinuity"  in  the 
history  of  poetry.  His  exposition  is  the  more  valuable  as  he  com- 
bines it  with  an  acceptance  of  absolute  standards  in  ethics  and 
religion. 

At  its  finest,  this  conception  of  "literary  history"  requires  an 


Literary  Theory }  Criticism,  and  History  33 

effort  of  imagination,  of  "empathy,"  of  deep  congeniality  with 
a  past  age  or  a  vanished  taste.  Successful  efforts  have  been  made 
to  reconstruct  the  general  outlook  in  life,  the  attitudes,  concep- 
tions, prejudices,  and  underlying  assumptions  of  many  civiliza- 
tions. We  know  a  great  deal  about  the  Greek  attitude  toward  the 
gods,  women,  and  slaves ;  we  can  describe  the  cosmology  of  the 
Middle  Ages  in  great  detail ;  and  we  have  attempts  to  show  the 
very  different  manner  of  seeing,  or  at  least  the  very  different 
artistic  traditions  and  conventions,  implied  by  Byzantine  and 
Chinese  art.  Especially  in  Germany  there  is  a  plethora  of  studies, 
many  of  them  influenced  by  Spengler,  on  the  Gothic  man,  the 
Baroque  man — all  supposed  to  be  sharply  set  off  from  our  time, 
living  in  a  world  of  their  own. 

In  the  study  of  literature,  this  attempt  at  historical  recon- 
struction has  led  to  great  stress  on  the  intention  of  the  author, 
which,  it  is  assumed,  can  be  studied  in  the  history  of  criticism 
and  literary  taste.  It  is  usually  assumed  that  if  we  can  ascertain 
this  intention  and  can  see  that  the  author  has  fulfilled  it,  we  can 
also  dispose  of  the  problem  of  criticism.  The  author  has  served 
a  contemporary  purpose,  and  there  is  no  need  or  even  possi- 
bility of  further  criticizing  his  work.  The  method  thus  leads  to 
the  recognition  of  a  single  critical  standard,  that  of  contemporary 
success.  There  are  then  not  only  one  or  two  but  literally  hun- 
dreds of  independent,  diverse,  and  mutually  exclusive  concep- 
tions of  literature,  each  of  which  is  in  some  way  "right."  The 
ideal  of  poetry  is  broken  up  in  so  many  splinters  that  nothing 
remains  of  it:  a  general  anarchy  or,  rather,  a  leveling  of  all 
values  must  be  the  result.  The  history  of  literature  is  reduced 
to  a  series  of  discrete  and  hence  finally  incomprehensible  frag- 
ments. The  extreme  form  of  this  historicism  is  the  Chicago  Neo- 
Aristotelianism,  which,  denying  the  possibility  of  a  general 
theory  of  literature,  leaves  us  with  unique  and  thus  incommen- 
surate and  equal  works.9  The  recommended  rhetorical  analysis 
can  be  carried  out  indifferently  with  the  Divine  Comedy  or  the 
trashiest  detective  novel.  A  more  moderate  form  is  the  view  that 
there  are  polar  poetical  ideals  which  are  so  different  that  there  is 
no  common  denominator  between  them :  Classicism  and  Roman- 
ticism, the  ideal  of  Pope  and  of  Wordsworth,  the  poetry  of  state- 
ment and  the  poetry  of  implication. 


34  Theory  of  Literature 

The  whole  idea  that  the  "intention"  of  the  author  is  the 
proper  subject  of  literary  history  seems,  however,  quite  mis- 
taken. The  meaning  of  a  work  of  art  is  not  exhausted  by,  or 
even  equivalent  to,  its  intention.  As  a  system  of  values,  it  leads 
an  independent  life.  The  total  meaning  of  a  work  of  art  cannot 
be  defined  merely  in  terms  of  its  meaning  for  the  author  and  his 
contemporaries.  It  is  rather  the  result  of  a  process  of  accretion, 
i.e.,  the  history  of  its  criticism  by  its  many  readers  in  many 
ages.  It  seems  unnecessary  and  actually  impossible  to  declare, 
as  the  historical  reconstructionists  do,  that  this  whole  process 
is  irrelevant  and  that  we  must  return  only  to  its  beginning.  It  is 
simply  not  possible  to  stop  being  men  of  the  twentieth  century 
while  we  engage  in  a  judgment  of  the  past:  we  cannot  forget  the 
associations  of  our  own  language,  the  newly  acquired  attitudes, 
the  impact  and  import  of  the  last  centuries.  We  cannot  become 
contemporary  readers  of  Homer  or  Chaucer  or  members  of  the 
audience  of  the  theater  of  Dionysus  in  Athens  or  of  the  Globe 
in  London.  There  will  always  be  a  decisive  difference  between 
an  act  of  imaginative  reconstruction  and  actual  participation  in 
a  past  point  of  view.  We  cannot  really  believe  in  Dionysus  and 
laugh  at  him  at  the  same  time,  as  the  audience  of  Euripides' 
Bacchae  seem  to  have  done;  10  and  few  of  us  can  accept  Dante's 
circles  of  Hell  and  mountain  of  Purgatory  as  literal  truth.  If 
we  should  really  be  able  to  reconstruct  the  meaning  which 
Hamlet  held  for  its  contemporary  audience,  we  would  merely 
impoverish  it.  We  would  suppress  the  legitimate  meanings 
which  later  generations  found  in  Hamlet.  We  would  bar  the 
possibility  of  a  new  interpretation.  This  is  not  a  plea  for  arbi- 
trary subjective  misreadings:  the  problem  of  a  distinction  be- 
tween "correct"  and  wrong-headed  readings  will  remain,  and 
will  need  a  solution  in  every  specific  case.  The  historical  scholar 
will  not  be  satisfied  to  judge  a  work  of  art  merely  from  the  point 
of  view  of  our  own  time — a  privilege  of  the  practicing  critic,  who 
will  revaluate  the  past  in  terms  of  the  needs  of  a  present-day 
style  or  movement.  It  may  be  even  instructive  for  him  to  look 
at  a  work  of  art  from  the  point  of  view  of  a  third  time,  contem- 
poraneous neither  with  him  nor  with  the  author,  or  to  survey 
the  whole  history  of  the  interpretation  and  criticism  of  a  work 
which  will  serve  as  a  guide  to  the  total  meaning. 


Literary  Theory ,  Criticism,  and  History  35 

In  practice,  such  clear-cut  choices  between  the  historical  and 
the  present-day  point  of  view  are  scarcely  feasible.  We  must 
beware  of  both  false  relativism  and  false  absolutism.  Values  grow 
out  of  the  historical  process  of  valuation,  which  they  in  turn  help 
us  to  understand.  The  answer  to  historical  relativism  is  not  a 
doctrinaire  absolutism  which  appeals  to  "unchanging  human 
nature"  or  the  "universality  of  art."  We  must  rather  adopt  a 
view  for  which  the  term  "Perspectivism"  seems  suitable.  We 
must  be  able  to  refer  a  work  of  art  to  the  values  of  its  own  time 
and  of  all  the  periods  subsequent  to  its  own.  A  work  of  art  is 
both  "eternal"  (i.e.,  preserves  a  certain  identity)  and  "histori- 
cal" (i.e.,  passes  through  a  process  of  traceable  development). 
Relativism  reduces  the  history  of  literature  to  a  series  of  discrete 
and  hence  discontinuous  fragments,  while  most  absolutisms  serve 
either  only  a  passing  present-day  situation  or  are  based  (like  the 
standards  of  the  New  Humanists,  the  Marxists,  and  the  Neo- 
Thomists)  on  some  abstract  non-literary  ideal  unjust  to  the  his- 
torical variety  of  literature.  "Perspectivism"  means  that  we  rec- 
ognize that  there  is  one  poetry,  one  literature,  comparable  in  all 
ages,  developing,  changing,  full  of  possibilities.  Literature  is 
neither  a  series  of  unique  works  with  nothing  in  common  nor  a 
series  of  works  enclosed  in  time-cycles  of  Romanticism  or  Classi- 
cism, the  age  of  Pope  and  the  age  of  Wordsworth.  Nor  is  it,  of 
course,  the  "block-universe"  of  sameness  and  immutability  which 
an  older  Classicism  conceived  as  ideal.  Both  absolutism  and  rela- 
tivism are  false ;  but  the  more  insidious  danger  today,  at  least  in 
the  United  States,  is  a  relativism  equivalent  to  an  anarchy  of 
values,  a  surrender  of  the  task  of  criticism. 

In  practice,  no  literary  history  has  ever  been  written  without 
some  principles  of  selection  and  some  attempt  at  characterization 
and  evaluation.  Literary  historians  who  deny  the  importance  of 
criticism  are  themselves  unconscious  critics,  usually  derivative 
critics,  who  have  merely  taken  over  traditional  standards  and 
reputations.  Usually,  today,  they  are  belated  Romanticists  who 
have  closed  their  minds  to  all  other  types  of  art  and  especially 
to  modern  literature.  But,  as  R.  G.  Collingwood  has  said  very 
pertinently,  a  man  "who  claims  to  know  what  makes  Shakespeare 
a  poet  is  tacitly  claiming  to  know  whether  Miss  Stein  is  a  poet, 
and  if  not,  why  not."  u 


36  Theory  of  Literature 

The  exclusion  of  recent  literature  from  serious  study  has  been 
an  especially  bad  consequence  of  this  "scholarly"  attitude.  The 
term  "modern"  literature  used  to  be  interpreted  so  widely  by 
academics  that  scarcely  any  work  after  Milton's  was  considered 
a  quite  respectable  object  of  study.  Since  then,  the  eighteenth 
century  has  been  accepted  into  good  and  regular  standing  as 
conventional  literary  history  and  has  even  become  fashionable, 
since  it  appears  to  offer  an  escape  into  a  more  gracious,  more 
stable,  and  more  hierarchic  world.  The  Romantic  period  and 
the  later  nineteenth  century  are  also  beginning  to  receive  the 
attention  of  the  scholars,  and  there  are  even  a  few  hardy  men 
in  academic  positions  who  defend  and  practice  the  scholarly 
study  of  contemporary  literature. 

The  only  possible  argument  against  the  study  of  living  authors 
is  the  point  that  the  student  foregoes  the  perspective  of  the 
completed  work,  of  the  explication  which  later  works  may  give 
to  the  implications  of  the  earlier.  But  this  disadvantage,  valid 
only  for  developing  authors,  seems  small  compared  to  the  ad- 
vantages we  have  in  knowing  the  setting  and  the  time  and  in 
the  opportunities  for  personal  acquaintance  and  interrogation  or 
at  least  correspondence.  If  many  second-  or  even  tenth-rate 
authors  of  the  past  are  worth  study,  a  first-  or  even  second-rate 
author  of  our  time  is  worth  studying,  too.  It  is  usually  lack  of 
perception  or  timidity  which  makes  academics  reluctant  to  judge 
for  themselves.  They  profess  to  await  the  "verdict  of  the  ages," 
not  realizing  that  this  is  but  the  verdict  of  other  critics  and 
readers,  including  other  professors.  The  whole  supposed  im- 
munity of  the  literary  historian  to  criticism  and  theory  is  thor- 
oughly false,  and  that  for  a  simple  reason:  every  work  of  art 
is  existing  now,  is  directly  accessible  to  observation,  and  is  a 
solution  of  certain  artistic  problems  whether  it  was  composed 
yesterday  or  a  thousand  years  ago.  It  cannot  be  analyzed,  char- 
acterized, or  evaluated  without  a  constant  recourse  to  critical 
principles.  "The  literary  historian  must  be  a  critic  even  in  order 
to  be  an  historian."  12 

Conversely,  literary  history  is  also  highly  important  for  lit- 
erary criticism  as  soon  as  the  latter  goes  beyond  the  most  sub- 
jective pronouncement  of  likes  and  dislikes.  A  critic  who  is  con- 
tent to  be  ignorant  of  all  historical  relationships  would  con- 


Literary  Theory,  Criticism,  and  History  37 

stantly  go  astray  in  his  judgments.  He  could  not  know  which 
work  is  original  and  which  derivative;  and,  through  his  igno- 
rance of  historical  conditions,  he  would  constantly  blunder  in  his 
understanding  of  specific  works  of  art.  The  critic  possessed  of 
little  or  no  history  is  inclined  to  make  slipshod  guesses,  or  to 
indulge  in  autobiographical  "adventures  among  masterpieces," 
and,  on  the  whole,  will  avoid  concern  with  the  more  remote 
past,  content  to  hand  that  over  to  the  antiquarian  and  the 
"philologist." 

A  case  in  point  is  medieval  literature,  especially  English 
medieval  literature,  which — with  the  possible  exception  of 
Chaucer — has  scarcely  been  approached  from  any  aesthetic  and 
critical  point  of  view.  The  application  of  modern  sensibility 
would  give  a  different  perspective  to  much  Anglo-Saxon  poetry 
or  to  the  rich  medieval  lyric,  just  as,  conversely,  an  introduction 
of  historical  points  of  view  and  a  systematic  examination  of 
genetic  problems  could  throw  much  light  on  contemporary  lit- 
erature. The  common  divorce  between  literary  criticism  and 
literary  history  has  been  detrimental  to  both.13 


CHAPTER  V 

General,  Comparative,  and  National  'Literature 

Within  literary  studies,  we  have  distinguished  between  theory, 
history,  and  criticism.  Using  another  basis  of  division,  we  shall 
now  attempt  a  systematic  definition  of  comparative,  general,  and 
national  literature.  The  term  "comparative"  literature  is  trouble- 
some and  doubtless,  indeed,  one  of  the  reasons  why  this  im- 
portant mode  of  literary  study  has  had  less  than  the  expected 
academic  success.  Matthew  Arnold,  translating  Ampere's  use  of 
"kistoire  comparative"  was  apparently  the  first  to  use  the  term 
in  English  (1848).  The  French  have  preferred  the  term  used 
earlier  by  Villemain,  who  had  spoken  of  "litterature  compare  e" 
(1829),  after  the  analogy  of  Cuvier's  Analomie  comparee 
(1800).  The  Germans  speak  of  "vergleichende  Literaturge- 
schichte." 1  Yet  neither  of  these  differently  formed  adjectives  is 
very  illuminating,  since  comparison  is  a  method  used  by  all 
criticism  and  sciences,  and  does  not,  in  any  way,  adequately  de- 
scribe the  specific  procedures  of  literary  study.  The  formal  com- 
parison between  literatures — or  even  movements,  figures,  and 
works — is  rarely  a  central  theme  in  literary  history,  though 
such  a  book  as  F.  C.  Green's  Minuet,2  comparing  aspects  of 
French  and  English  eighteenth-century  literature,  may  be  illu- 
minating in  defining  not  only  parallels  and  affinities  but  also 
divergences  between  the  literary  development  of  one  nation  and 
that  of  another. 

In  practice,  the  term  "comparative"  literature  has  covered  and 
still  covers  rather  distinct  fields  of  studv  and  groups  of  problems. 
It  may  mean,  first,  the  study  of  oral  literature,  especiallv  of 
folk-tale  themes  and  their  migration  5  of  how  and  when  they 
have  entered  "higher,"  "artistic"  literature.  This  type  of  prob- 
lem can  be  relegated  to  folklore,  an  important  branch  of  learn- 
ing which  is  only  in  part  occupied  with  aesthetic  facts,  since  it 
studies  the  total  civilization  of  a  "folk,"  its  costumes  and  customs, 

38 


General,  C  omfarative }  and  National  Literature  39 

superstitions  and  tools  as  well  as  its  arts.  We  must,  however, 
endorse  the  view  that  the  study  of  oral  literature  is  an  integral 
part  of  literary  scholarship,  for  it  cannot  be  divorced  from  the 
study  of  written  works,  and  there  has  been  and  still  is  a  con- 
tinuous interaction  between  oral  and  written  literature.  Without 
going  to  the  extreme  of  folklorists  such  as  Hans  Naumann  3  who 
consider  all  oral  literature  as  "gesunkenes  Kuhurgut"  we  can 
recognize  that  written  upper-class  literature  has  profoundly  af- 
fected oral  literature.  The  incorporation  into  folklore  of  chivalric 
romance  and  troubadour  lyric  is  an  indubitable  fact.  Though  this 
is  a  view  which  would  have  shocked  the  Romantic  believers  in 
the  creativity  of  the  folk  and  the  remote  antiquity  of  folk  art, 
nevertheless  popular  ballads,  fairy  tales,  and  legends  as  we  know 
them  are  frequently  of  late  origin  and  upper-class  derivation. 
Yet  the  study  of  oral  literature  must  be  an  important  concern 
of  every  literary  scholar  who  wants  to  understand  the  processes 
of  literary  development,  the  origins  and  the  rise  of  our  literary 
genres  and  devices.  It  is  unfortunate  that  the  study  of  oral  lit- 
erature has  thus  far  been  so  exclusively  preoccupied  with  the 
study  of  themes  and  their  migrations  from  country  to  country, 
i.e.,  with  the  raw  materials  of  modern  literatures.4  Of  late,  how- 
ever, folklorists  have  increasingly  turned  their  attention  to  the 
study  of  patterns,  forms,  and  devices,  to  a  morphology  of  lit- 
erary forms,  to  the  problems  of  the  teller  and  narrator  and  the 
audience  of  a  tale,  and  have  thus  prepared  the  way  for  a  close 
integration  of  their  studies  into  a  general  conception  of  literary 
scholarship.5  Though  the  study  of  oral  literature  has  its  own 
peculiar  problems,  those  of  transmission  and  social  setting,6  its 
fundamental  problems,  without  doubt,  are  shared  with  written 
literature;  and  there  is  a  continuity  between  oral  and  written 
literature  which  has  never  been  interrupted.  Scholars  in  the 
modern  European  literatures  have  neglected  these  questions  to 
their  own  disadvantage,  while  literary  historians  in  the  Slavic 
and  Scandinavian  countries,  where  folklore  is  still — or  was  till 
recently — alive,  have  been  in  much  closer  touch  with  these 
studies.  But  "comparative  literature"  is  hardly  the  term  by 
which  to  designate  the  study  of  oral  literature. 

Another  sense  of  "comparative"  literature  confines  it  to  the 
study  of  relationships  between  two  or  more  literatures.  This  is 


40  Theory  of  Literature 

the  use  established  by  the  flourishing  school  of  French  com- 
faratistes  headed  by  Fernand  Baldensperger  and  gathered 
around  the  Revue  de  Utterature  comfaree.1  The  school  has 
especially  given  attention,  sometimes  mechanically  but  some- 
times with  considerable  finesse,  to  such  questions  as  the  repu- 
tation and  penetration,  the  influence  and  fame,  of  Goethe  in 
France  and  England,  of  Ossian  and  Carlyle  and  Schiller  in 
France.  It  has  developed  a  methodology  which,  going  beyond 
the  collection  of  information  concerning  reviews,  translations, 
and  influences,  considers  carefully  the  image,  the  concept  of  a 
particular  author  at  a  particular  time,  such  diverse  factors  of 
transmission  as  periodicals,  translators,  salons,  and  travelers,  and 
the  "receiving  factor,"  the  special  atmosphere  and  literary  sit- 
uation into  which  the  foreign  author  is  imported.  In  total,  much 
evidence  for  the  close  unity,  especially  of  the  Western  European 
literatures,  has  been  accumulated  ;  and  our  knowledge  of  the 
"foreign  trade"  of  literatures  has  been  immeasurably  increased. 

But  this  conception  of  "comparative  literature"  has  also,  one 
recognizes,  its  peculiar  difficulties.8  No  distinct  system  can,  it 
seems,  emerge  from  the  accumulation  of  such  studies.  There  is 
no  methodological  distinction  between  a  study  of  "Shakespeare 
in  France"  and  a  study  of  "Shakespeare  in  eighteenth-century 
England,"  or  between  a  study  of  Poe's  influence  on  Baudelaire 
and  one  of  Dryden's  influence  on  Pope.  Comparisons  between 
literatures,  if  isolated  from  concern  with  the  total  national  lit- 
eratures, tend  to  restrict  themselves  to  external  problems  of 
sources  and  influences,  reputation  and  fame.  Such  studies  do 
not  permit  us  to  analyze  and  judge  an  individual  work  of  art,  or 
even  to  consider  the  complicated  whole  of  its  genesis;  instead, 
they  are  mainly  devoted  either  to  such  echoes  of  a  masterpiece 
as  translations  and  imitations,  frequently  by  second-rate  authors, 
or  to  the  prehistory  of  a  masterpiece,  the  migrations  and  the 
spread  of  its  themes  and  forms.  The  emphasis  of  "comparative 
literature"  thus  conceived  is  on  externals;  and  the  decline  of 
"comparative  literature"  in  recent  decades  reflects  the  general 
turning  away  from  stress  on  mere  "facts,"  on  sources  and 
influences. 

A  third  conception  obviates,  however,  all  these  criticisms,  by 
identifying  "comparative  literature"  with  the  study  of  literature 


General,  Comfarativey  and  National  Literature  41 

in  Its  totality,  with  "world-literature,"  with  "general"  or  "uni- 
versal" literature.  There  are  certain  difficulties  with  these  sug- 
gested equations.  The  term  "world  literature,"  a  translation  of 
Goethe's  Weltlheratur?  is  perhaps  needlessly  grandiose,  imply- 
ing that  literature  should  be  studied  on  all  five  continents,  from 
New  Zealand  to  Iceland.  Existing  courses  in  world  literature, 
like  the  textbooks  and  handbooks  written  for  them,  often  supply 
us  with  snippets  from  famous  authors  and  great  books  ranging 
from  the  Rig-Veda  to  Oscar  Wilde  and  encourage  an  indis- 
criminate smattering,  a  vague,  sentimental  cosmopolitanism. 
The  possibly  preferable  term  "general  literature"  has  the  disad- 
vantage that  Paul  Van  Tieghem  10  has  tried  to  capture  it  for 
a  rather  narrow  conception  in  specific  contrast  to  "comparative 
literature."  According  to  him,  "general  literature"  studies  those 
movements  and  fashions  of  literature  which  transcend  national 
lines.  In  practice,  however,  it  would  be  difficult  to  determine  be- 
forehand which  movements  are  general  and  thus  to  draw  a  line 
of  distinction  between  the  purely  national  and  the  general.  Most 
of  Van  Tieghem's  own  books  are  rather  conventional  investiga- 
tions of  a  comparative  sort,  studying  Ossian  in  France  or  the 
international  vogue  of  "graveyard  poetry,"  or  are  handbooks  of 
external  facts  and  interrelationships.11 

Whatever  the  difficulties  into  which  a  conception  of  universal 
literary  history  may  run,  it  is  important  to  think  of  literature 
as  a  totality  and  to  trace  the  growth  and  development  of  litera- 
ture without  regard  to  linguistic  distinctions.  The  practical  result 
of  such  thinking  will  be  a  general  history,  especially  of  the 
Western  tradition.  One  cannot  doubt  the  continuity  between 
Greek  and  Roman  literatures,  the  Western  medieval  world,  and 
the  main  modern  literatures  j  and,  without  minimizing  the  im- 
portance of  Oriental  influences,  especially  that  of  the  Bible,  one 
must  recognize  a  close  unity  which  includes  all  Europe,  Russia, 
the  United  States,  and  the  South  American  literatures.  This  ideal 
was  envisaged  and,  within  their  limited  means,  fulfilled,  by  the 
founders  of  literary  history  in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  such 
men  as  the  Schlegels,  Sismondi,  Bouterwek,  and  Hallam.12 
During  the  later  nineteenth  century,  this  ideal  was  more  closely 
defined  and  brought  nearer  to  a  coherent  view  through  the  in- 
fluence of  evolutionism.  The  first  theories  of  comparative  litera- 


42  Theory  of  Literature 

ture,  the  books  by  Karayev  and  Posnett,13  were  largely  under  the 
influence  of  the  sociological  conceptions  of  Herbert  Spencer  and 
drew  far  too  close  a  parallelism  between  the  growth  of  institu- 
tions and  that  of  literature.  But  a  return  to  the  ideals  and  ambi- 
tions of  the  great  masters  of  general  literary  historiography  is 
overdue,  whatever  modifications  we  may  make  today  in  the  de- 
tails of  their  methods  and  however  ampler  our  sources  of  infor- 
mation may  be.  Literary  history  as  a  synthesis,  literary  history 
on*a  supernational  scale,  will  have  to  be  written  again.  The  study 
of  comparative  literature  in  this  sense  will  make  high  demands 
on  the  linguistic  proficiencies  of  our  scholars.  It  asks  for  a  widen- 
ing of  perspectives,  a  suppression  of  local  and  provincial  senti- 
ments, not  easy  to  achieve.  Yet  literature  is  one,  as  art  and 
humanity  are  one;  and  in  this  conception  lies  the  future  of  his- 
torical literary  studies. 

Within  this  enormous  area — in  practice,  identical  with  all  lit- 
erary history — there  are,  no  doubt,  subdivisions  sometimes  run- 
ning along  linguistic  lines.  There  are,  first  of  all,  the  groups  of 
the  three  main  linguistic  families  in  Europe — the  Germanic,  the 
Romance,  and  the  Slavic  literatures.  The  Romance  literatures 
have  particularly  frequently  been  studied  in  close  interconnec- 
tion, from  the  days  of  Bouterwek  up  to  Leonardo  Olschki's  par- 
tially successful  attempt  to  write  a  history  of  them  all  for  the 
medieval  period.14  The  Germanic  literatures  have  been  com- 
parably studied,  usually,  only  for  the  early  Middle  Ages,  when 
the  nearness  of  a  general  Teutonic  civilization  can  be  still 
strongly  felt.15  Despite  the  customary  opposition  of  Polish 
scholars,  it  would  appear  that  the  close  linguistic  affinities  of  the 
Slavic  languages,  in  combination  with  shared  popular  traditions 
extending  even  to  metrical  forms,  make  up  a  basis  for  a  common 
Slavic  literature.16 

The  history  of  themes  and  forms,  devices  and  genres,  is  ob- 
viously an  international  history.  While  most  of  our  genres  de- 
scend from  the  literature  of  Greece  and  Rome,  they  were  very 
considerably  modified  and  augmented  during  the  Middle  Ages. 
Even  the  history  of  metrics,  though  closely  bound  up  with  the 
individual  linguistic  systems,  is  international.  Furthermore,  the 
great  literary  movements  and  styles  of  modern  Europe  (the 
Renaissance,  the  Baroque,  Neo-Classicism,  Romanticism,  Real- 


General,  Comfarativey  and  National  Literature  43 

ism,  Symbolism)  far  exceed  the  boundaries  of  one  nation,  even 
though  there  are  significant  national  differences  between  the 
workings  out  of  these  styles.17  On  the  whole,  the  importance  of 
linguistic  barriers  was  quite  unduly  magnified  during  the  nine- 
teenth century. 

This  emphasis  was  due  to  the  very  close  association  between 
Romantic  (mostly  linguistic)  nationalism  and  the  rise  of  mod- 
ern organized  literary  history.  It  continues  today  through  such 
practical  influences  as  the  virtual  identification,  especially  in  this 
country,  of  the  teaching  of  literature  and  the  teaching  of  a 
language.  The  result,  in  this  country,  has  been  an  extraordinary 
lack  of  contact  between  the  students  of  English,  German,  and 
French  literature.  Each  of  these  groups  bears  a  completely  dif- 
ferent imprint  and  uses  different  methods.  These  disjunctions  are 
in  part,  doubtless,  unavoidable,  simply  because  most  men  live 
in  but  a  single  linguistic  medium ;  and  yet  they  lead  to  grotesque 
consequences  when  literary  problems  are  discussed  only  with 
regard  to  views  expressed  in  the  particular  language  and  only 
with  reference  to  texts  and  documents  in  that  language.  Though 
in  certain  problems  of  artistic  style,  meter,  and  even  genre,  the 
linguistic  differences  between  the  European  literatures  will  be 
important,  it  is  clear  that  for  many  problems  of  the  history  of 
ideas,  including  critical  ideas,  such  distinctions  are  untenable  j 
artificial  cross  sections  are  drawn  through  homogeneous  ma- 
terials, and  histories  are  written  concerning  ideological  echoes  by 
chance  expressed  in  English  or  German  or  French.  The  excessive 
attention  to  one  vernacular  is  especially  detrimental  to  the  study 
of  medieval  literature,  since  in  the  Middle  Ages  Latin  was  the 
foremost  literary  language,  and  Europe  formed  a  very  close 
intellectual  unity.  A  history  of  literature  during  the  Middle 
Ages  in  England  which  neglects  the  vast  amount  of  writings  in 
Latin  and  Anglo-Norman  gives  a  false  picture  of  England's  lit- 
erary situation  and  general  culture. 

This  recommendation  of  comparative  literature  does  not,  of 
course,  imply  neglecting  the  study  of  individual  national  litera- 
tures. Indeed,  it  is  just  the  problem  of  "nationality"  and  of  the 
distinct  contributions  of  the  individual  nations  to  this  general 
literary  process  which  should  be  realized  as  central.  Instead  of 
being  studied  with  theoretical  clarity,  the  problem  has  been 


44  Theory  of  Literature 

blurred  by  nationalistic  sentiment  and  racial  theories.  To  isolate 
the  exact  contributions  of  English  literature  to  general  literature, 
a  fascinating  problem,  might  lead  to  a  shift  of  perspective  and 
an  altered  evaluation,  even  of  the  major  figures.  Within  each 
national  literature  there  arise  similar  problems  of  the  exact 
shares  of  regions  and  cities.  Such  an  exaggerated  theory  as  that 
of  Josef  Nadler,18  who  professes  to  be  able  to  discern  the  traits 
and  characteristics  of  each  German  tribe  and  region  and  its 
reflections  in  literature,  should  not  deter  us  from  the  considera- 
tion of  these  problems,  rarely  investigated  with  any  command  of 
facts  and  any  coherent  method.  Much  that  has  been  written  on 
the  role  of  New  England,  the  Middle  West,  and  the  South  in 
the  history  of  American  literature,  and  most  of  the  writings  on 
regionalism,  amounts  to  no  more  than  the  expression  of  pious 
hopes,  local  pride,  and  resentment  of  centralizing  powers.  Any 
objective  analysis  will  have  to  distinguish  questions  concerning 
the  racial  descent  of  authors  and  sociological  questions  concern- 
ing provenience  and  setting  from  questions  concerning  the  actual 
influence  of  the  landscape  and  questions  of  literary  tradition 
and  fashion. 

Problems  of  "nationality"  become  especially  complicated  if 
we  have  to  decide  that  literatures  in  the  same  language  are  dis- 
tinct national  literatures,  as  American  and  modern  Irish  as- 
suredly are.  Such  a  question  as  why  Goldsmith,  Sterne,  and 
Sheridan  do  not  belong  to  Irish  literature,  while  Yeats  and  Joyce 
do,  needs  an  answer.  Are  there  independent  Belgian,  Swiss,  and 
Austrian  literatures?  It  is  not  very  easy  to  determine  the  point 
at  which  literature  written  in  America  ceased  to  be  "colonial 
English"  and  became  an  independent  national  literature.  Is  it 
the  mere  fact  of  political  independence?  Is  it  the  national  con- 
sciousness of  the  authors  themselves?  Is  it  the  use  of  national 
subject  matter  and  "local  color"?  Or  is  it  the  rise  of  a  definite 
national  literary  style? 

Only  when  we  have  reached  decisions  on  these  problems  shall 
we  be  able  to  write  histories  of  national  literature  which  are  not 
simply  geographical  or  linguistic  categories,  shall  we  be  able 
to  analyze  the  exact  way  in  which  each  national  literature  enters 
into  European  tradition.  Universal  and  national  literatures  im- 
plicate each  other.  A  pervading  European  convention  is  modified 


Generaly  Comparative,  and  National  Literature  45 

in  each  country:  there  are  also  centers  of  radiation  in  the  individ- 
ual countries,  and  eccentric  and  individually  great  figures  who  set 
off  one  national  tradition  from  the  other.  To  be  able  to  describe 
the  exact  share  of  the  one  and  the  other  would  amount  to  know- 
ing much  that  is  worth  knowing  in  the  whole  of  literary  history. 


II 

Preliminary  Operations 


CHAPTER  VI 

The  Ordering-  and  Establishing;:  of  Evidence 

One  of  the  first  tasks  of  scholarship  is  the  assembly  of  its 
materials,  the  careful  undoing  of  the  effects  of  time,  the  exami- 
nation as  to  authorship,  authenticity,  and  date.  Enormous  acumen 
and  diligence  have  gone  into  the  solution  of  these  problems  j  yet 
the  literary  student  will  have  to  realize  that  these  labors  are 
preliminary  to  the  ultimate  task  of  scholarship.  Often  the  im- 
portance of  these  operations  is  particularly  great,  since  without 
them,  critical  analysis  and  historical  understanding  would  be 
hopelessly  handicapped.  This  is  true  in  the  case  of  a  half-buried 
literary  tradition  such  as  that  of  Anglo-Saxon  literature ;  but  for 
the  student  of  most  modern  literatures,  concerned  with  the 
literary  meaning  of  the  works,  the  importance  of  these  studies 
should  not  be  overrated.  They  have  either  been  needlessly  ridi- 
culed because  of  their  pedantry  or  glorified  for  their  supposed  or 
real  exactitude.  The  neatness  and  perfection  with  which  certain 
problems  can  be  solved  have  always  attracted  minds  which  enjoy 
orderly  procedure  and  the  intricacies  of  manipulation,  quite  apart 
from  any  final  significance  which  they  may  have.  These  studies 
need  to  be  criticized  adversely  only  when  they  usurp  the  place 
of  other  studies  and  become  a  specialty  mercilessly  imposed  on 
every  student  of  literature.  Literary  works  have  been  edited 
meticulously,  passages  emended  and  debated  in  the  greatest  de- 
tail which,  from  a  literary  or  even  historical  point  of  view,  are 
not  worth  discussing  at  all.  Or,  if  they  are  worth  it,  have  had 
only  the  kind  of  attention  the  textual  critic  gives  to  a  book.  Like 
other  human  activities,  these  exercises  often  become  ends  in 
themselves. 

Among  these  preliminary  labors  one  has  to  distinguish  two 
levels  of  operations:  ( i)  the  assembling  and  preparing  of  a  text; 
and  (2)  the  problems  of  chronology,  authenticity,  authorship, 
collaboration,  revision  and  the  like,  which  have  been  frequently 

49 


50  Theory  of  Literature 

described  as  "higher  criticism,"  a  rather  unfortunate  term  de- 
rived from  Biblical  studies. 

It  will  be  useful  to  distinguish  the  stages  in  these  labors. 
There  is,  first,  the  assembling  and  collecting  of  the  materials, 
whether  in  manuscript  or  in  print.  In  English  literary  history, 
this  work  has  been  accomplished  almost  completely,  though  in 
the  present  century  a  few  fairly  important  works  like  The  Book 
of  Margery  Kempe,  Medwall's  Fulgens  and  Lucrece.  and  Chris- 
topher Smart's  Rejoice  m  the  Lamb  have  been  added  to  our 
knowledge  of  the  history  of  English  mysticism  and  that  of  Eng- 
lish poetry.1  But  there  is,  of  course,  no  end  to  the  discovery  of 
personal  and  legal  documents  which  might  illustrate  the  litera- 
ture or  at  least  the  lives  of  English  writers.  In  recent  decades  the 
discoveries  of  Leslie  Hotson  on  Marlowe  or  the  recovery  of  the 
Boswell  papers  may  be  quoted  as  well-known  instances.2  In 
other  literatures  the  possibilities  of  new  discoveries  may  be  much 
greater,  especially  in  those  where  little  has  been  fixed  in  writing. 

In  the  field  of  oral  literature  the  assembly  of  materials  has  its 
own  special  problems,  such  as  the  discovery  of  a  competent 
singer  or  narrator,  tact  and  skill  in  inducing  him  to  sing  or  to 
recite,  the  method  of  recording  his  recitations  by  phonograph 
or  by  phonetic  writing,  and  many  others.  In  finding  manuscript 
materials  one  has  to  meet  problems  of  a  purely  practical  nature, 
such  as  personal  acquaintance  with  the  heirs  of  the  writer,  one's 
own  social  prestige  and  financial  restrictions,  and  frequently  some 
kind  of  detective  skill.3  Such  a  search  may  require  very  special 
knowledge  as,  for  example,  in  the  case  of  Leslie  Hotson,  who 
had  to  know  much  about  Elizabethan  legal  procedure  to  find  his 
way  through  the  masses  of  documents  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.  Since  the  majority  of  students  can  find  their  source  ma- 
terials in  libraries,  a  knowledge  of  the  most  important  libraries, 
and  familiarity  with  their  catalogues  as  well  as  other  reference 
books,  is  undoubtedly,  in  many  ways,  an  important  equipment  of 
almost  every  student  of  literature.4 

We  may  leave  the  technical  details  of  cataloguing  and  biblio- 
graphical description  to  the  librarians  and  professional  bibliog- 
raphers; but  sometimes  merely  bibliographical  facts  may  have 
a  literary  relevance  and  value.  The  number  and  size  of  editions 
may  throw  light  on  questions  of  success  and  reputation ;  the  dis- 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  5  I 

tinctions  between  editions  may  allow  us  to  trace  the  stages  of  the 
author's  revision  and  thus  throw  light  on  problems  of  the  genesis 
and  evolution  of  the  work  of  art.  A  skillfully  edited  bibliography 
such  as  the  CBEL  maps  out  vast  areas  for  research ;  and  special- 
ized bibliographies  such  as  Greg's  Bibliography  of  English 
Drama,  Johnson's  Spenser  Bibliography,  Macdonald's  Dryden 
Bibliography,  Griffith's  Pope  5  may  be  guides  to  many  problems 
of  literary  history.  Such  bibliographies  may  necessitate  investi- 
gations into  printing  house  practices,  booksellers'  and  publishers' 
histories;  and  they  require  knowledge  of  printers'  devices,  water- 
marks, type  fonts,  compositors'  practices,  and  bindings.  Some- 
thing like  a  library  science,  or  certainly  an  immense  erudition 
on  the  history  of  book  production,  is  needed  to  decide  questions 
which,  by  their  implications  as  to  date,  order  of  editions,  etc., 
may  be  important  for  literary  history.  "Descriptive"  bibliog- 
raphy, which  uses  all  the  arts  of  collating  and  examining  of  the 
actual  make-up  of  a  book,  must  thus  be  distinguished  from 
"enumerative"  bibliography,  the  compiling  of  book  lists  which 
give  descriptive  data  only  sufficient  for  identification.6 

Once  the  preliminary  task  of  assembly  and  cataloguing  is 
completed,  the  process  of  editing  begins.  Editing  is  often  an 
extremely  complex  series  of  labors,  inclusive  of  both  interpre- 
tation and  historical  research.  There  are  editions  which  in  the 
introductions  and  notes  contain  important  criticism.  Indeed,  an 
edition  may  be  a  complex  of  almost  every  kind  of  literary  study. 
Editions  have  played  a  very  important  role  in  the  history  of 
literary  studies :  they  may — to  quote  a  recent  example,  like  F.  N. 
Robinson's  edition  of  Chaucer — serve  as  a  repository  of  learn- 
ing, as  a  handbook  of  all  the  knowledge  about  an  author.  But 
taken  in  its  central  meaning  as  the  establishment  of  the  text  of 
a  work,  editing  has  its  own  problems,  among  which  actual  "tex- 
tual criticism"  is  a  highly  developed  technique  with  a  long  his- 
tory especially  in  classical  and  Biblical  scholarship.7 

One  must  distinguish  rather  sharply  between  the  problems 
which  arise  in  editing  classical  or  medieval  MSS  on  the  one 
hand  and,  on  the  other,  printed  matter.  MS  materials  will  neces- 
sitate, first,  a  knowledge  of  paleography,  a  study  which  has 
established  very  subtle  criteria  for  the  dating  of  MSS  and  has 
produced  useful  manuals  for  the  deciphering  of  abbreviations.8 


52  Theory  of  Literature 

Much  has  been  done  to  trace  the  exact  provenience  of  MSS  to 
specific  monasteries  of  a  certain  period.  Very  complex  questions 
of  the  exact  relationships  between  these  MSS  may  arise.  An 
investigation  should  lead  to  a  classification  which  can  be  made 
graphically  clear  by  the  construction  of  a  pedigree.9  In  recent 
decades  Dom  Henri  Quentin  and  W.  W.  Greg  10  have  worked 
out  elaborate  techniques  for  which  they  claim  scientific  certainty, 
though  other  scholars,  such  as  Bedier  and  Shepard,11  have  ar- 
gued that  there  is  no  completely  objective  method  of  establishing 
classifications.  While  this  is  hardly  the  place  to  reach  a  decision 
on  such  a  question,  we  would  lean  toward  the  latter  view.  We 
would  conclude  that,  in  most  cases,  it  is  advisable  to  edit  the 
MS  which  is  adjudged  to  be  nearest  the  author's  own  without 
attempting  the  reconstruction  of  some  hypothetical  "original." 
The  edition  will,  of  course,  draw  upon  the  results  of  collation, 
and  the  choice  of  the  MS  itself  will  be  determined  by  a  study 
of  the  whole  MS  tradition.  The  experiences  with  the  sixty  sur- 
viving MSS  of  Piers  Plowman  and  the  eighty-three  MSS  of  the 
Canterbury  Tales  12  lead,  we  think,  to  conclusions  mostly  un- 
favorable to  the  idea  that  there  ever  existed  an  authorized  re- 
cension or  archetype  analogous  to  the  definitive  edition  of  a 
modern  work. 

The  process  of  recension,  i.e.,  constructing  a  stemma  or  pedi- 
gree, must  be  distinguished  from  actual  textual  criticism  and 
emendation,  which  will,  of  course,  be  based  on  these  classifica- 
tions but  will  have  to  take  into  consideration  other  points  of 
view  and  criteria  than  those  derived  merely  from  the  MS  tradi- 
tion.13 Emendation  may  use  the  criterion  of  "genuineness," 
i.e.,  derivation  of  a  particular  word  or  passage  from  the  oldest 
and  best  (i.e.,  most  authoritative)  MS  5  but  it  will  have  to  intro- 
duce distinct  considerations  of  "correctness"  such  as  linguistic 
criteria,  historical  criteria,  and  finally  unavoidable  psychological 
criteria.  Otherwise  we  could  not  eliminate  "mechanical"  errors, 
misreadings,  miswritings,  associations,  or  even  conscious  changes 
of  the  scribes.  Much  must  be  left,  after  all,  to  the  lucky  guess- 
work of  the  critic,  to  his  taste  and  linguistic  feeling.  Modern 
editors  have,  we  think  rightly,  become  more  and  more  reluctant 
to  indulge  in  such  guesses,  but  the  reaction  in  favor  of  the  diplo- 
matic text  seems  to  have  gone  too  far  when  the  editor  reproduces 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  53 

all  abbreviations  and  scribal  errors  and  all  the  vagaries  of  the 
original  punctuation.  This  may  be  important  for  other  editors 
or  sometimes  for  linguists  but  is  a  needless  impediment  for  the 
literary  scholar.  We  plead  not  for  modernized  texts  but  for  read- 
able texts  which  will  avoid  unnecessary  guesses  and  changes  and 
give  reasonable  help  by  minimizing  attention  to  purely  scribal 
conventions  and  habits. 

The  problems  of  editing  printed  materials  are  usually  some- 
what simpler  than  those  of  editing  manuscripts,  though  in  gen- 
eral they  are  similar.  But  there  is  a  distinction,  formerly  not 
always  understood.  In  the  case  of  nearly  all  classical  MSS,  we 
are  met  with  documents  from  very  different  times  and  places, 
centuries  remote  from  the  original,  and  hence  are  free  to  use 
most  of  these  MSS,  as  each  may  be  presumed  to  be  derived  from 
some  ultimate  ancient  authority.  In  the  case  of  books,  however, 
usually  only  one  or  two  editions  have  any  kind  of  independent 
authority.  A  choice  has  to  be  made  of  a  basic  edition,  which  will 
usually  be  either  the  first  edition  or  the  last  edition  supervised  by 
the  author.  In  some  cases,  such  as  Whitman's  Leaves  of  Grass, 
which  underwent  many  successive  additions  and  revisions,  or 
Pope's  Dunciad,  which  exists  in  at  least  two  widely  divergent 
versions,  it  may  be  necessary,  for  a  critical  edition,  to  print  all  or 
both  versions.14  On  the  whole,  modern  editors  are  more  reluctant 
to  produce  complete  eclectic  texts,  though  one  should  realize  that 
practically  all  editions  of  Hamlet  have  been  hybrids  between  the 
Second  Quarto  and  the  Folio.  With  Elizabethan  plays,  one  may 
have  to  come  to  the  conclusion  that  sometimes  there  was  no  final 
version  which  can  be  reconstructed.  As  in  oral  poetry  (e.g.,  the 
ballads),  the  hunt  for  a  single  archetype  is  futile.  It  was  long  be- 
fore editors  of  ballads  gave  up  the  search  for  it.  Percy  and  Scott 
"contaminated"  different  versions  freely  (and  even  rewrote 
them),  while  the  first  scientific  editors  such  as  Motherwell 
chose  one  version  as  superior  and  original.  Finally  Child  de- 
cided to  print  all  versions.15 

Elizabethan  plays  represent,  in  some  way,  unique  textual 
problems:  their  corruption  is  far  greater  than  that  of  most 
contemporary  books,  partly  because  plays  were  not  considered 
worth  much  attention  in  proofreading  and  partly  because  the 
MSS  from  which  they  were  printed  were  often  the  much  re- 


54  Theory  of  Literature 

vised  "foul  papers"  of  the  author  or  authors  and  sometimes  a 
prompt  copy  which  contained  playhouse  revisions  and  markings. 
Besides,  there  was  a  special  class  of  bad  "quartos"  which  were 
apparently  printed  either  from  memorial  reconstruction  or  from 
actors'  fragmentary  parts  or  possibly  from  a  primitive  shorthand 
version.  In  recent  decades,  very  much  attention  has  been  paid  to 
these  problems,  and  the  Quartos  of  Shakespeare  have  been  re- 
classified after  the  discoveries  of  Pollard  and  Greg.16  Pollard 
demonstrated,  on  the  basis  of  purely  "bibliotic"  knowledge,  such 
as  watermarks  and  type  fonts,  that  certain  Quartos  of  Shake- 
speare's plays  were  purposely  antedated  though  actually  printed 
in  1 619  as  preparation  for  a  collected  edition  which  did  not 
materialize. 

A  close  study  of  Elizabethan  handwriting,  partly  based  on 
the  assumption  that  two  pages  in  the  preserved  MS  of  a  play 
Sir  Thomas  More  are  in  the  handwriting  of  Shakespeare  him- 
self,17 has  had  important  implications  for  textual  criticism,  mak- 
ing it  now  possible  to  classify  the  likely  misreadings  of  the  Eliza- 
bethan compositor,  while  a  study  of  printing  house  practices  has 
shown  what  errors  are  likely  or  possible.  But  the  wide  margin 
which  is  still  left  for  the  individual  editor  in  emending  shows 
that  no  really  "objective"  method  of  textual  criticism  has  been 
discovered.  Certainly,  many  of  the  emendations  introduced  by 
Dover  Wilson  into  his  Cambridge  edition  seem  as  wild  and  un- 
necessary guesswork  as  some  produced  by  eighteenth-century 
editors.  But  it  is  interesting  that  Theobald's  brilliant  guess, 
which,  in  Mrs.  Quickly's  account  of  FalstafPs  death,  changed 
the  nonsensical  "table  of  green  fields"  into  "a  babbled  of  green 
fields"  is  supported  by  the  study  of  Elizabethan  handwriting 
and  spelling,  i.e.,  "a  babld"  could  have  easily  been  mistaken  for 
"a  table." 

The  convincing  arguments  that  the  Quartos  (with  the  excep- 
tion of  a  few  bad  ones)  were  most  probably  either  printed  from 
the  author's  MS  or  from  a  promptbook  have  restored  authority 
to  the  earlier  editions  and  have  somewhat  reduced  the  venera- 
tion in  which  the  Folio  had  been  held  since  the  days  of  Dr. 
Johnson.  The  English  textual  scholars  who,  rather  mislead- 
ingly,  call  themselves  "bibliographers"  (McKerrow,  Greg,  Pol- 
lard, Dover  Wilson,  etc.)  have  tried  to  ascertain,  in  each  case, 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  55 

what  the  MS  authority  for  each  Quarto  may  have  been,  and 
have  used  these  theories,  only  partially  arrived  at  on  the  basis 
of  strictly  bibliographical  investigation,  for  elaborate  hypotheses 
on  the  genesis,  revisions,  alterations,  collaborations,  etc.,  of 
Shakespeare's  plays.  Their  preoccupation  is  only  partly  with  tex- 
tual criticism  j  especially  the  work  of  Dover  Wilson  more  legiti- 
mately belongs  to  "higher  criticism." 

Wilson  makes  very  large  claims  for  the  method:  "We  can  at 
times  creep  into  the  compositor's  skin  and  catch  glimpses  of  the 
MS  through  his  eyes.  The  door  of  Shakespeare's  workshop 
stands  ajar." 18  No  doubt,  the  "bibliographers"  have  thrown 
some  light  on  the  composition  of  Elizabethan  plays  and  have 
suggested,  and  possibly  proved,  many  traces  of  revision  and 
alteration.  But  many  of  Dover  Wilson's  hypotheses  seem  fanci- 
ful constructions  for  which  evidence  seems  very  slight  or  even 
completely  lacking.  Thus,  Dover  Wilson  has  constructed  the 
genesis  of  The  Temfest.  He  claims  that  the  long  exposition 
scene  points  to  the  existence  of  an  earlier  version  in  which  the 
pre-history  of  the  plot  has  been  told  as  a  loosely  constructed 
drama  in  the  style  of  The  Winter's  Tale.  But  the  slight  incon- 
sistencies and  irregularities  in  line  arrangement,  etc.,  cannot 
yield  even  presumptive  evidence  for  such  farfetched  and  need- 
less fancies.19 

Textual  criticism  has  been  most  successful,  but  also  most  un- 
certain, in  the  case  of  Elizabethan  plays  j  but  it  is  needed  also 
in  many  apparently  far  more  well-authenticated  books.  Pascal 
and  Goethe,  Jane  Austen,  and  even  Trollope  have  benefited 
from  the  meticulous  attention  of  modern  editors,20  even  though 
some  of  these  studies  have  degenerated  into  mere  lists  of  print- 
ing house  habits  and  compositors'  vagaries. 

In  preparing  an  edition,  one  should  keep  firmly  in  mind  its 
purpose  and  its  presumed  public.  There  will  be  one  standard 
of  editing  for  an  audience  of  other  textual  scholars,  who  want 
to  compare  the  minutest  differences  between  existent  versions, 
and  another  standard  for  the  general  reader,  who  has  but  mod- 
erate interest  in  variations  of  spelling  or  even  in  the  minor  dif- 
ferences between  editions. 

Editing  presents  other  problems  than  that  of  establishing  a 
correct  text.21  In  a  collected  edition  there  arise  questions  of 


56  Theory  of  Literature 

inclusion  and  exclusion,  arrangement,  annotation,  etc.,  which 
may  vary  greatly  from  case  to  case.  Probably  the  most  useful 
edition  for  the  scholar  is  a  complete  edition  in  strictly  chrono- 
logical order,  but  such  an  ideal  may  be  very  difficult  or  impos- 
sible to  reach.  Chronological  arrangement  may  be  purely  con- 
jectural or  may  dissolve  the  artistic  grouping  of  poems  within 
a  collection.  The  literary  reader  will  object  to  the  mixture  of 
the  great  and  the  trivial,  if  we  print  side  by  side  an  ode  of 
Keats'  with  a  jocular  poem  included  in  a  contemporary  letter. 
We  would  want  to  preserve  the  artistic  arrangement  of  Baude- 
laire's Fleurs  du  Mai  or  Conrad  Ferdinand  Meyer's  Gedichte, 
but  we  may  have  our  doubts  whether  Wordsworth's  elaborate 
classifications  need  to  be  kept.  Yet  if  we  were  to  break  up  Words- 
worth's own  order  of  the  poems  and  print  them  chronologically 
we  would  run  into  great  difficulties  as  to  the  version  we  had  to 
reprint.  It  would  have  to  be  the  first  version,  as  it  would  falsify 
the  picture  of  Wordsworth's  development  to  print  a  late  revision 
with  an  early  date;  but  obviously  it  seems  awkward  to  dis- 
regard the  will  of  the  poet  completely  and  to  ignore  the  later 
revisions,  which  indubitably  were  improvements  in  many  re- 
spects. Ernest  de  Selincourt  has  therefore  decided  to  keep  the 
traditional  order  in  his  new  complete  edition  of  Wordsworth's 
poems.  Many  complete  editions,  such  as  those  of  Shelley,  ignore 
the  important  distinction  between  a  finished  work  of  art  and  a 
mere  fragment  or  sketch  by  the  poet  which  he  may  have  aban- 
doned. The  literary  reputations  of  many  poets  have  suffered 
from  the  overcompleteness  of  many  current  editions,  inclusive 
of  the  slightest  occasional  verse  or  "workshop"  jotting  side  by 
side  with  the  finished  product. 

The  question  of  annotation  will  also  have  to  be  decided  by 
the  purpose  of  the  edition:22  the  Variorum  Shakespeare  may 
legitimately  exceed  the  text  by  the  mass  of  annotation  which  is 
supposed  to  preserve  the  opinions  of  everybody  who  has  ever 
written  on  a  specific  passage  of  Shakespeare  and  thus  will  save 
the  scholar  a  search  through  enormous  bodies  of  printed  matter. 
The  general  reader  will  need  much  less:  usually  only  the  in- 
formation which  is  necessary  to  a  complete  understanding  of 
a  text.  But,  of  course,  opinions  of  what  is  needed  may  vary 
greatly:  some  editors  tell  the  reader  that  Queen  Elizabeth  was 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  57 

a  Protestant  or  who  David  Garrick  was  and,  at  the  same  time^ 
shirk  all  real  obscurities  (these  are  actual  cases).  It  is  difficult 
to  draw  the  line  against  overannotation  unless  the  editor  is  quite 
certain  what  audience  and  what  purpose  he  has  to  serve. 

Annotation  in  the  strict  sense — the  explanation  of  a  text,  lin- 
guistic, historical,  and  the  like — should  be  distinguished  from  a 
general  commentary,  which  may  simply  accumulate  the  ma- 
terials for  literary  or  linguistic  history  (i.e.,  point  out  sources, 
parallels,  imitations  by  other  writers)  and  form  a  commentary 
which  may  be  of  an  aesthetic  nature,  contain  little  essays  on 
specific  passages,  and  hence  fulfill  something  like  the  function 
of  the  anthology.  It  may  not  always  be  easy  to  draw  such  neat 
distinctions,  yet  the  mixture  of  textual  criticism,  literary  history 
in  the  special  form  of  source  study,  linguistic  and  historical  ex- 
planation, and  aesthetic  commentary  in  many  editions  seems  a 
dubious  fashion  of  literary  scholarship,  justified  only  by  the 
convenience  of  having  all  kinds  of  information  between  two 
covers. 

In  the  editing  of  letters  special  problems  arise.  Should  they 
be  printed  in  full  even  if  they  are  the  most  trivial  business 
notes?  The  reputation  of  writers  like  Stevenson,  Meredith, 
Arnold  and  Swinburne  has  not  increased  by  the  publication  of 
letters  which,  were  never  meant  as  works  of  literature.  Should 
we  also  print  the  answers,  without  which  many  a  correspondence 
is  incomprehensible?  By  this  procedure  much  heterogeneous 
matter  is  intruded  into  the  works  of  an  author.  These  are  all 
practical  questions  which  cannot  be  answered  without  good 
sense  and  some  consistency,  much  diligence,  and  frequently  in- 
genuity and  good  luck. 

Beyond  the  establishment  of  the  text,  preliminary  research 
will  have  to  settle  such  questions  as  those  of  chronology,  au- 
thenticity, authorship,  and  revision.  Chronology  is  in  many  cases 
sufficiently  established  either  by  publication  date  on  the  title 
page  of  the  book  or  by  contemporary  evidence  of  publication. 
But  these  obvious  sources  are  often  lacking,  for  example,  in  the 
case  of  many  Elizabethan  plays  or  a  medieval  MS.  The  Eliza- 
bethan play  may  have  been  printed  long  after  the  first  per- 
formance j  the  medieval  MS  may  be  a  copy  of  a  copy  hundreds 
of  years  remote  from  the  date  of  composition.  External  evi- 


58  Theory  of  Literature 

dence  must  be  then  supplemented  by  evidence  from  the  text 
itself,  allusions  to  contemporary  events,  or  to  other  dateable 
sources.  This  internal  evidence  pointing  to  some  external  event 
will  establish  only  the  initial  date  after  which  that  part  of  the 
book  was  written. 

Take,  for  instance,  purely  internal  evidence  such  as  can  be 
derived  from  a  study  of  metrical  statistics  in  the  attempt  to 
establish  the  order  of  Shakespeare's  plays.  It  can  establish  only 
relative  chronology  within  a  wide  margin  of  error.23  Though 
it  is  safe  to  assume  that  the  number  of  rhymes  in  Shakespeare's 
plays  decreases  from  Love's  Labour's  Lost  (which  has  most)  to 
The  Winter's  Tale  (which  has  none),  we  cannot  conclude  that 
The  Winter's  Tale  is  necessarily  later  than  The  Tern-pest  ( which 
has  two  rhymes).  As  the  criteria  such  as  number  of  rhymes, 
feminine  endings,  run-on  lines,  etc.,  do  not  yield  exactly  the 
same  results,  no  fixed  and  regular  correlation  between  chronol- 
ogy and  metrical  tables  can  be  established.  In  isolation  from 
other  evidence,  the  tables  can  be  interpreted  quite  differently. 
An  eighteenth-century  critic,  James  Hurdis,24  for  example, 
thought  that  Shakespeare  progressed  from  the  irregular  verse 
of  The  Winter's  Tale  to  the  regular  verse  of  The  Comedy  of 
Errors.  However,  a  judicious  combination  of  all  these  types  of 
evidence  (external,  internal-external,  and  internal)  has  led  to  a 
chronology  of  Shakespeare's  plays  which  is,  without  doubt, 
broadly  true.  Statistical  methods,  mainly  as  to  the  occurrence 
and  frequency  of  certain  words,  have  been  also  used  for  the 
establishment  of  a  relative  chronology  of  Plato's  dialogues,  by 
Lewis  Campbell  and  especially  by  Wincenty  Lutoslawski,  who 
calls  his  method  "stylometry."  25 

If  we  have  to  consider  undated  MSS,  chronological  difficul- 
ties may  multiply  and  even  become  insoluble.  We  may  have  to 
resort  to  a  study  of  the  evolution  of  an  author's  handwriting. 
We  may  have  to  puzzle  over  stamps  or  franks  on  letters,  exam- 
ine the  calendar,  and  trace  very  carefully  the  exact  migrations 
of  the  author,  since  these  may  give  a  clue  to  the  dating.  Chrono- 
logical questions  are  often  very  important  to  the  literary  his- 
torian: without  their  being  settled,  he  could  not  trace  the  ar- 
tistic development  of  Shakespeare  or  of  Chaucer,  to  take 
examples  where  the  dating  is  entirely  due  to  the  efforts  of 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  59 

modern  research.  Malone  and  Tyrwhitt  in  the  late  eighteenth 
century  laid  the  ground,  but  since  then  controversy  on  details 
has  never  ceased. 

Questions  of  authenticity  and  attribution  may  be  even  more 
important,  and  their  solution  may  require  elaborate  stylistic  and 
historical  investigations.26  We  are  certain  of  the  authorship  of 
most  works  in  modern  literature.  But  there  is  a  large  pseudon- 
ymous and  anonymous  literature  which  sometimes  yields  its 
secret,  even  if  that  secret  is  nothing  else  than  a  name  unasso- 
ciated  with  any  biographical  information  and  hence  no  more 
illuminating  than  the  pseudonym  or  anonym  itself. 

With  many  authors  the  question  of  a  canon  of  their  work 
arises.  The  eighteenth  century  discovered  that  a  large  part  of 
what  had  been  included  in  printed  editions  of  Chaucer's  work 
(such  as  The  Testament  of  Creseld  and  The  Flower  and  the 
Leaf)  cannot  be  Chaucer's  authentic  work.  Even  today  the 
canon  of  Shakespeare's  work  is  far  from  settled.  The  pendulum 
seems  to  have  swung  to  the  other  extreme  from  the  time  when 
August  Wilhelm  Schlegel  argued  with  strange  confidence  that 
all  the  apocrypha  are  Shakespeare's  genuine  work.27  Recently, 
J.  M.  Robertson  has  been  the  most  outstanding  proponent  of 
the  "disintegration  of  Shakespeare,"  a  view  which  would  leave 
Shakespeare  with  little  more  than  the  authorship  of  a  few  scenes 
in  the  best-known  plays.  According  to  this  school  of  thought, 
even  Julius  Caesar  and  The  Merchant  of  Venice  are  supposed 
to  be  nothing  but  a  hotchpotch  of  passages  by  Marlowe,  Greene, 
Peele,  Kyd,  and  several  other  playwrights  of  the  time.28  Robert- 
son's method  consists  largely  in  tracing  little  verbal  tags,  dis- 
covering inconsistencies  and  literary  parallels.  The  method  is 
extremely  uncertain  and  willful.  It  seems  based  on  a  false  as- 
sumption and  a  vicious  circle:  we  know  what  is  Shakespeare's 
work  from  certain  contemporary  testimony  (the  inclusion  in 
the  Folio,  the  entries  under  his  name  in  the  Stationer's  Register, 
etc.) ;  but  Robertson,  by  an  arbitrary  act  of  aesthetic  judgment, 
selects  only  certain  purple  passages  as  Shakespeare's  and  denies 
his  authorship  of  anything  that  falls  below  that  standard  or 
that  shows  similarities  to  the  practice  of  contemporary  drama- 
tists. Yet  there  is  no  reason  why  Shakespeare  could  not  have 
written  poorly  or  carelessly  or  why  he  could  not  have  written 


60  Theory  of  Literature 

in  various  styles  imitating  his  contemporaries.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  older  premise  that  every  word  in  the  Folio  is  Shake- 
speare's cannot  be  upheld  in  its  entirety. 

No  wholly  definitive  conclusion  can  be  reached  on  some  of 
these  points,  since  Elizabethan  drama  was  a  communal  art  in 
which  close  collaboration  was  a  very  real  practice.  The  indi- 
vidual authors  were  frequently  scarcely  differentiate  by  their 
styles.  Two  authors  might  well  themselves  have  been  unable  to 
distinguish  between  their  shares.  Collaboration  sometimes  poses 
almost  hopeless  tasks  to  the  literary  detective.29  Even  in  the  case 
of  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  in  which  we  have  the  advantage  of 
having  work  definitely  only  by  Fletcher  written  after  the  death 
of  Beaumont,  the  division  between  their  shares  is  not  estab- 
lished beyond  controversy;  and  the  case  is  completely  lost  with 
The  Revenger's  Tragedy ,  which  has  been  assigned  to  Webster, 
Tourneur,  Middleton,  and  Marston  alternatively  or  in  various 
combinations.30 

Similar  difficulties  arise  in  attempts  to  ascertain  authorship 
where,  in  the  absence  of  external  evidence,  a  definite  traditional 
manner  and  uniform  style  make  detection  extremely  difficult. 
Examples  are  abundant  in  the  troubadours,  or  in  eighteenth- 
century  pamphleteers  (who  will  ever  establish  the  canon  of 
Defoe's  writings?),  not  to  speak  of  anonymous  contributions  to 
periodicals.  In  many  cases,  however,  some  measure  of  success 
can  be  achieved  even  here.  Investigation  of  the  records  of  pub- 
lishing houses,  or  marked  files  of  periodicals  may  unearth  new 
external  evidence;  and  skillful  study  of  connecting  links  between 
articles  of  authors  who  repeat  and  quote  themselves  (such  as 
Goldsmith)  may  yield  conclusions  of  a  high  degree  of  cer- 
tainty.31 G.  Udny  Yule,  a  statistician  and  actuary,  has  used  very 
complex  mathematical  methods  to  study  the  vocabulary  of 
writers  like  Thomas  a  Kempis  in  order  to  establish  the  common 
authorship  of  several  manuscripts.32  Stylistic  methods,  if  pa- 
tiently developed,  can  supply  evidence  which,  though  falling 
short  of  complete  certainty,  makes  identification  highly  probable. 

In  the  history  of  literature,  the  question  of  the  authenticity 
of  forgeries  or  pious  frauds  has  played  an  important  role  and 
has  given  valuable  impetus  to  further  investigations.  Thus  the 
controversy  about  Ossian  stimulated  the  study  of  Gaelic  folk 


The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence  6 1 

poetry,  the  controversy  around  Chatterton  led  to  an  intensified 
study  of  English  medieval  history  and  literature,  and  the  Ire- 
land Forgeries  of  Shakespeare  plays  and  documents  led  to  de- 
bates about  Shakespeare  and  the  history  of  the  Elizabethan 
stage.33  Discussing  Chatterton,  Thomas  Warton,  Thomas  Tyr- 
whitt,  and  Edmond  Malone  brought  forth  historical  and  lit- 
erary arguments  to  show  the  Rowley  Poems  to  be  modern  fabri- 
cations. Two  generations  later  W.  W.  Skeat,  who  had  made  a 
systematic  study  of  Middle  English  grammar,  pointed  to  the 
violations  of  elementary  grammatical  conventions  which  should 
have  betrayed  the  forgery  much  more  quickly  and  completely. 
Edmond  Malone  demolished  the  clumsy  forgeries  of  the  Ire- 
lands;  but  even  they,  like  Chatterton  and  Ossian,  had  bona  fide 
defenders  (such  as  Chalmers,  a  man  of  considerable  learning) 
who  were  not  without  merit  in  the  history  of  the  Shakespearean 
research. 

The  mere  suspicion  of  forgery  has  also  forced  scholars  to  but- 
tress the  arguments  for  the  traditional  dating  and  ascription  and 
thus  to  go  beyond  acceptance  of  tradition  to  positive  arguments: 
for  example,  in  the  case  of  Hroswitha,  the  German  nun  of  the 
tenth  century  whose  plays  were  sometimes  supposed  to  have 
been  forged  by  Conrad  Celtes,  the  German  fifteenth-century 
humanist,  or  the  Russian  Slovo  o  folku  Igoreve,  which  is 
ascribed  usually  to  the  twelfth  century  but  has  even  recently 
been  argued  to  be  a  forgery  of  the  late  eighteenth  century.34 
In  Bohemia,  the  question  of  the  forgeries  of  two  supposedly 
medieval  MSS,  the  Zelend  hora  and  Krdlove  dvur  MSS,  was 
a  hot  political  issue  as  late  as  the  1880's;  and  the  public  reputa- 
tion of  the  future  President  of  Czechoslovakia,  Thomas 
Masaryk,  was  partly  made  in  these  contests  and  arguments 
which  began  with  linguistics  but  widened  into  an  issue  of  scien- 
tific truthfulness  versus  romantic  self-delusion.35 

In  some  of  these  questions  of  authenticity  and  authorship,  very 
elaborate  problems  of  legal  evidence  may  be  involved;  and  all 
kinds  of  learning  such  as  paleography,  bibliography,  linguistics, 
and  history  may  have  to  be  invoked.  Among  recent  exposures, 
nothing  has  been  neater  than  the  conviction  of  T.  J.  Wise  of  the 
forgery  of  some  eighty-six  nineteenth-century  pamphlets:  the 
detective  work,  by  Carter  and  Pollard,36  involved  watermarks, 


62  Theory  of  Literature 

printing  house  tactics  such  as  inking  procedures,  use  of  certain 
kinds  of  paper  and  letter  fonts,  and  the  like.  (The  direct  literary- 
bearings  of  many  of  these  questions  is,  however,  only  slight :  the 
forgeries  of  Mr.  Wise,  who  never  invented  a  text,  concern  rather 
the  book  collector.) 

One  must  never  forget  that  the  establishment  of  a  different 
date  of  authorship  does  not  dispose  of  the  actual  question  of 
criticism.  Chatterton's  poems  are  neither  worse  nor  better  for 
having  been  written  in  the  eighteenth  century,  a  point  which 
is  frequently  forgotten  by  those  who  in  their  moral  indignation 
punish  with  contempt  and  oblivion  the  work  proved  to  be  a  later 
production. 

The  questions  discussed  in  this  chapter  are  practically  the 
only  questions  to  which  the  existent  textbooks  of  methods  and 
manuals  such  as  those  of  Morize  and  Rudler  are  devoted,  and 
they  are  almost  the  only  methods  in  which  American  graduate 
schools  provide  any  kind  of  systematic  training.  Still,  whatever 
their  importance,  it  must  be  recognized  that  these  types  of  study 
only  lay  the  foundations  for  an  actual  analysis  and  interpreta- 
tion as  well  as  causal  explanation  of  literature.  They  are  justified 
by  the  uses  to  which  their  results  are  put. 


Ill 

The  Extrinsic  Approach  to  the  Study  of 
Literature 


Introduction 

The  most  widespread  and  flourishing  methods  of  studying  lit- 
erature concern  themselves  with  its  setting,  its  environment,  its 
external  causes.  These  extrinsic  methods  are  not  limited  to  a 
study  of  the  past  but  are  equally  applicable  to  present-day  lit- 
erature. Hence,  the  term  "historical"  should  properly  be  re- 
served for  that  study  of  literature  which  concentrates  on  its 
change  in  time  and  is  thus  centrally  preoccupied  with  the  prob- 
lem of  history.  Though  the  "extrinsic"  study  may  merely  at- 
tempt to  interpret  literature  in  the  light  of  its  social  context  and 
its  antecedents,  in  most  cases  it  becomes  a  "causal"  explanation, 
professing  to  account  for  literature,  to  explain  it,  and  finally  to 
reduce  it  to  its  origins  (the  "fallacy  of  origins").  Nobody  can 
deny  that  much  light  has  been  thrown  on  literature  by  a  proper 
knowledge  of  the  conditions  under  which  it  has  been  produced} 
the  exegetical  value  of  such  a  study  seems  indubitable.  Yet  it  is 
clear  that  causal  study  can  never  dispose  of  problems  of  descrip- 
tion, analysis,  and  evaluation  of  an  object  such  as  a  work  of  lit- 
erary art.  Cause  and  effect  are  incommensurate :  the  concrete  re- 
sult of  these  extrinsic  causes — the  work  of  art — is  always  un- 
predictable. 

All  history,  all  environmental  factors,  can  be  argued  to  shape 
a  work  of  art.  But  the  actual  problems  begin  when  we  evaluate, 
compare,  and  isolate  the  individual  factors  which  are  supposed 
to  determine  the  work  of  art.  Most  students  try  to  isolate  a  spe- 
cific series  of  human  actions  and  creations  and  to  ascribe  to  that 
alone  a  determining  influence  on  the  work  of  literature.  Thus 
one  group  considers  literature  mainly  the  product  of  an  indi- 
vidual creator  and  concludes  hence  that  literature  should  be  in- 
vestigated mainly  through  biography  and  the  psychology  of  the 
author.  A  second  group  looks  for  the  main  determining  factors 
of  literary  creation  in  the  institutional  life  of  man — in  economic, 

6s 


66  Theory  of  Literature 

social,  and  political  conditions}  another  related  group  seeks  for 
the  causal  explanation  of  literature  largely  in  such  other  collec- 
tive creations  of  the  human  mind  as  the  history  of  ideas,  of 
theology,  and  the  other  arts.  Finally,  there  is  a  group  of  stu- 
dents who  seek  to  explain  literature  in  terms  of  the  Zeitgeist, 
some  quintessential  spirit  of  the  time,  some  intellectual  atmos- 
phere or  "climate"  of  opinion,  some  unitary  force  abstracted 
largely  from  the  characteristics  of  the  other  arts. 

These  advocates  of  the  extrinsic  approach  vary  in  the  rigidity 
with  which  they  apply  deterministic  causal  methods  to  their 
study  and  hence  in  the  claims  they  make  for  the  success  of  their 
method.  Those  who  believe  in  social  causation  are  usually  the 
most  deterministic.  This  radicalism  can  be  explained  by  their 
philosophical  affiliations  with  nineteenth-century  positivism  and 
science;  but  one  must  not  forget  that  the  idealistic  adherents  of 
Geistesgeschichte,  philosophically  affiliated  with  Hegelianism  or 
other  forms  of  Romantic  thought,  are  also  extreme  determinists 
and  even  fatalists  in  a  sense. 

Many  students  who  use  these  methods  will  make  much  more 
modest  claims.  They  will  seek  to  establish  only  some  degree  of 
relationship  between  the  work  of  art  and  its  settings  and  ante- 
cedents, and  they  will  assume  that  some  degree  of  illumination 
follows  from  such  knowledge,  though  the  precise  relevance  of 
these  relationships  may  escape  them  altogether.  These  more 
modest  proponents  seem  wiser,  for  surely  causal  explanation  is 
a  very  overrated  method  in  the  study  of  literature,  and  as  surely 
it  never  can  dispose  of  the  critical  problems  of  analysis  and 
evaluation.  Among  the  different  cause-governed  methods,  an 
explanation  of  the  work  of  art  in  terms  of  the  total  setting  seems 
preferable,  since  the  reduction  of  literature  to  the  effect  of  a 
single  cause  is  manifestly  impossible.  Without  endorsing  the 
specific  conceptions  of  German  Geistesgeschickte,  we  recognize 
that  such  explanation  by  a  synthesis  of  all  the  factors  obviates 
a  most  important  criticism  against  the  other  current  methods. 
What  follows  is  an  attempt  to  weigh  the  importance  of  these 
different  factors  and  to  criticize  the  array  of  methods  from  the 
point  of  view  of  their  relevance  to  a  study  which  could  be  called 
centrally  literary  or  "ergocentric." 


CHAPTER  VII 

Literature  and  Biography 

The  most  obvious  cause  of  a  work  of  art  is  its  creator,  the 
author ;  and  hence  an  explanation  in  terms  of  the  personality 
and  the  life  of  the  writer  has  been  one  of  the  oldest  and  best- 
established  methods  of  literary  study. 

Biography  can  be  judged  in  relation  to  the  light  it  throws  on 
the  actual  production  of  poetry  j  but  we  can,  of  course,  defend 
it  and  justify  it  as  a  study  of  the  man  of  genius,  of  his  moral, 
intellectual,  and  emotional  development,  which  has  its  own  in- 
trinsic interest ;  and  finally,  we  can  think  of  biography  as  afford- 
ing materials  for  a  systematic  study  of  the  psychology  of  the 
poet  and  of  the  poetic  process. 

These  three  points  of  view  should  be  carefully  distinguished. 
For  our  conception  of  "literary  scholarship"  only  the  first  thesis, 
that  biography  explains  and  illuminates  the  actual  product  of 
poetry,  is  directly  relevant.  The  second  point  of  view,  which 
advocates  the  intrinsic  interest  of  biography,  shifts  the  center 
of  attention  to  human  personality.  The  third  considers  biog- 
raphy as  material  for  a  science  or  future  science,  the  psychology 
of  artistic  creation. 

Biography  is  an  ancient  literary  genre.  First  of  all — chrono- 
logically and  logically — it  is  a  part  of  historiography.  Biography 
makes  no  methodological  distinction  between  a  statesman,  a  gen- 
eral, an  architect,  a  lawyer,  and  a  man  who  plays  no  public  role. 
And  Coleridge's  view  that  any  life,  however  insignificant,  would, 
if  truthfully  told,  be  of  interest  is  sound  enough.1  In  the  view 
of  a  biographer,  the  poet  is  simply  another  man  whose  moral 
and  intellectual  development,  external  career  and  emotional  life, 
can  be  reconstructed  and  can  be  evaluated  by  reference  to  stand- 
ards, usually  drawn  from  some  ethical  system  or  code  of  man- 
ners. His  writings  may  appear  as  mere  facts  of  publications,  as 
events  like  those  in  the  life  of  any  active  man.  So  viewed,  the 

67 


68  Theory  of  Literature 

problems  of  a  biographer  are  simply  those  of  a  historian.  He 
has  to  interpret  his  documents,  letters,  accounts  by  eye-witnesses, 
reminiscences,  autobiographical  statements,  and  to  decide  ques- 
tions of  genuineness,  trustworthiness  of  witnesses,  and  the  like. 
In  the  actual  writing  of  biography  he  encounters  problems  of 
chronological  presentation,  of  selection,  of  discretion  or  frank- 
ness. The  rather  extensive  work  which  has  been  done  on  biog- 
raphy as  a  genre  deals  with  such  questions,  questions  in  no  way 
specifically  literary.2  A  historical  sketch  of  the  lives  of  English 
poets  may  suggest  the  different  types  of  biography  and  the  chief 
problems  of  the  biographers.3 

At  least  in  England,  biography  has  been  one  of  the  earliest 
and  certainly  one  of  the  most  persistent  forms  of  literary  study. 
Leland  and  Bale  compiled  biographical  and  bibliographical  cata- 
logues of  authors  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  a  collection  of 
lives  was  the  standard  form  of  English  literary  history  long 
before  Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets  and  down  to  Morley's  Eng- 
lish Men  of  Letters.  In  the  seventeenth  century,  Walton  wrote 
the  lives  of  Donne  and  Herbert,  treating  these  poets  as  An- 
glican saints.  In  the  eighteenth  century,  diverse  types  of  literary 
biography  became  established.  Boswell's  Johnson  is  the  most 
famous  example  of  a  literary  portraiture  which  tries,  by  an 
accumulation  of  anecdotes,  to  recreate  a  moral  and  intellectual 
personality.  A  different  type  of  biography  is  best  represented 
by  Edmond  Malone's  Life  of  Dry  den  (1800),  the  scholarly  ac- 
cumulation, verification,  and  examination  of  documents  which 
yield  a  series  of  external  facts.  It  was  not  till  the  nineteenth 
century  that  attempts  were  first  made  to  write  the  biography  of 
an  author  against  his  social  and  literary  background.  William 
Godwin's  much  padded  Life  of  Chaucer  (1803),  Scott's  Dry  den 
(1808 — factually  derived  from  Malone),  and  Nathan  Drake's 
Shakespeare  (1817)  are  early  examples.  The  type  doubtless  cul- 
minates in  Masson's  Life  of  Milton  (1 859-80),  a  work  which 
manages  to  include  almost  the  whole  of  the  political  and  social 
history  of  the  time;  but  many  a  Victorian  Life  and  Times  is 
similar  in  intent  even  though  it  may  not  equal  Masson's  per- 
formance in  bulk  or  extravagance. 

A  new  type  arises  only  when  conscious  attempts  are  made  to 
trace  the  ethical  evolution  and  integration  of  a  writer.  Dowden's 


Literature  and  Biografhy  69 

Life  of  Shakespeare  (1875)  is  one  early  attempt  out  of  a  score, 
of  which  Dowden's  own  Shelley  (1886)  and  Froude's  Carlyle 
seem  much  more  successful  examples.  The  ethical  biography 
easily  passes  into  the  psychological  or  even  psychiatrical  and 
psychoanalytical  study  of  the  personality  of  the  poet.  Such  a 
transition  occurred  when  Victorian  standards  of  ethics  seemed  to 
become  inadequate  and  when  attention  began  to  turn  to  the 
results  of  medical  psychology.  Since  the  success  of  Lytton 
Strachey's  brilliant  biographies,  this  "analysis"  has  been  done 
frequently  in  a  debunking  spirit ;  but  it  can  be  done,  of  course, 
in  a  compassionate  tone  of  apology  or  from  an  attitude  of  simple 
scientific  detachment.  Carpenter's  book  on  Shelley,  Krutch's 
biography  of  Poe,  and  Van  Wyck  Brooks'  Ordeal  of  Mark  Twain 
are  examples  of  an  approach  whose  validity  can  scarcely  be  de- 
nied, however  doubtful  we  may  feel  about  the  individual  books, 
which  indulge  too  frequently  in  the  reduction  of  the  complex  to 
the  simple. 

However,  in  our  context  two  questions  of  literary  biography 
are  crucial.  How  far  is  the  biographer  justified  in  using  the  evi- 
dence of  the  works  themselves  for  his  purposes?  How  far  are 
the  results  of  literary  biography  relevant  and  important  for  an 
understanding  of  the  works  themselves?  An  affirmative  answer 
to  both  questions  is  usually  given.  To  the  first  question  it  is 
assumed  by  practically  all  biographers  who  are  specifically  at- 
tracted to  poets,  for  poets  appear  to  offer  abundant  evidence 
usable  in  the  writing  of  a  biography,  evidence  which  will  be 
absent,  or  almost  absent,  in  the  case  of  many  far  more  influential 
historical  personages.  But  is  this  optimism  justified? 

We  must  distinguish  two  ages  of  man,  two  possible  solutions. 
For  most  early  literature  we  have  no  private  documents  on 
which  a  biographer  can  draw.  We  have  only  a  series  of  public 
documents,  birth  registers,  marriage  certificates,  lawsuits,  and 
the  like,  and  then  the  evidence  of  the  works.  We  can,  for 
example,  trace  Shakespeare's  movements  very  roughly,  and  we 
know  something  of  his  finances;  but  we  have  absolutely  noth- 
ing in  the  form  of  letters,  diaries,  reminiscences,  except  a  few 
anecdotes  of  doubtful  authenticity.  The  vast  effort  which  has 
been  expended  upon  the  study  of  Shakespeare's  life  has  yielded 
only  few  results  of  literary  profit.  They  are  chiefly  facts  of 


70  Theory  of  Literature 

chronology  and  illustrations  of  the  social  status  and  the  associa- 
tions of  Shakespeare.  Hence  those  who  have  tried  to  construct 
an  actual  biography  of  Shakespeare,  of  his  ethical  and  emotional 
development,  have  either  arrived,  if  they  went  about  it  in  a 
scientific  spirit,  as  Miss  Spurgeon  attempted  in  her  study  of 
Shakespeare's  imagery,  at  a  mere  list  of  trivialities,  or  if  they 
used  the  plays -and  sonnets  recklessly,  have  constructed  biograph- 
ical romances  like  those  of  Georg  Brandes  or  Frank  Harris.4 
The  whole  assumption  behind  these  attempts  (which  began, 
probably,  with  a  few  hints  in  Hazlitt  and  Schlegel,  elaborated 
first,  rather  cautiously,  by  Dowden)  is  quite  mistaken.  One  can- 
not, from  fictional  statements,  especially  those  made  in  plays, 
draw  any  valid  inference  as  to  the  biography  of  a  writer.  One 
may  gravely  doubt  even  the  usual  view  that  Shakespeare  passed 
through  a  period  of  depression,  in  which  he  wrote  his  tragedies 
and  his  bitter  comedies,  to  achieve  some  serenity  of  resolution  in 
The  T em-pest.  It  is  not  self-evident  that  a  writer  needs  to  be  in  a 
tragic  mood  to  write  tragedies  or  that  he  writes  comedies  when 
he  feels  pleased  with  life.  There  is  simply  no  proof  for  the  sor- 
rows of  Shakespeare.5  He  cannot  be  made  responsible  for  the 
views  of  Timon  or  Macbeth  on  life,  just  as  he  cannot  be  con- 
sidered to  hold  the  views  of  Doll  Tearsheet  or  Iago.  There  is 
no  reason  to  believe  that  Prospero  speaks  like  Shakespeare: 
authors  cannot  be  assigned  the  ideas,  feelings,  views,  virtues, 
and  vices  of  their  heroes.  And  this  is  true  not  only  of  dramatic 
characters  or  characters  in  a  novel  but  also  of  the  /  of  the  lyrical 
poem.  The  relation  between  the  private  life  and  the  work  is  not 
a  simple  relation  of  cause  and  effect. 

Proponents  of  the  biographical  method  will,  however,  object 
to  these  contentions.  Conditions,  they  will  say,  have  changed 
since  the  time  of  Shakespeare.  Biographical  evidence  has,  for 
many  poets,  become  abundant,  because  the  poets  have  become 
self-conscious,  have  thought  of  themselves  as  living  in  the  eyes 
of  posterity  (like  Milton,  Pope,  Goethe,  Wordsworth,  or 
Byron),  and  have  left  many  autobiographical  statements  as  well 
as  attracted  much  contemporary  attention.  The  biographical 
approach  now  seems  easy,  for  we  can  check  life  and  work 
against  each  other.  Indeed,  the  approach  is  even  invited  and 
demanded  by  the   poet,   especially   the   Romantic   poet,   who 


Literature  and  Biografhy  7 1 

writes  about  himself  and  his  innermost  feelings  or  even,  like 
Byron,  carries  the  "pageant  of  his  bleeding  heart"  around  Eu- 
rope. These  poets  spoke  of  themselves  not  only  in  private  let- 
ters, diaries,  and  autobiographies,  but  also  in  their  most  formal 
pronouncements.  Wordsworth's  Prelude  is  an  autobiography 
declaredly.  It  seems  difficult  not  to  take  these  pronouncements, 
sometimes  not  different  in  content  or  even  in  tone  from  their 
private  correspondence,  at  their  face  value  without  interpreting 
poetry  in  the  terms  of  the  poet,  who  saw  it  himself,  in  Goethe's 
well-known  phrase,  as  "fragments  of  a  great  confession." 

We  should  certainly  distinguish  two  types  of  poets,  the  ob- 
jective and  the  subjective:  those  who,  like  Keats  and  T.  S.  Eliot, 
stress  the  poet's  "negative  capability,"  his  openness  to  the  world, 
the  obliteration  of  his  concrete  personality,  and  the  opposite  type 
of  the  poet,  who  aims  at  displaying  his  personality,  wants  to 
draw  a  self-portrait,  to  confess,  to  express  himself.6  For  long 
stretches  of  history  we  know  only  the  first  type:  the  works  in 
which  the  element  of  personal  expression  is  very  weak,  even 
though  the  aesthetic  value  may  be  great.  The  Italian  novelle, 
chivalric  romances,  the  sonnets  of  the  Renaissance,  Elizabethan 
drama,  naturalistic  novels,  most  folk  poetry,  may  serve  as  lit- 
erary examples. 

But,  even  with  the  objective  poet,  the  distinction  between  a 
personal  statement  of  an  autobiographical  nature  and  the  use  of 
the  very  same  motif  in  a  work  of  art  should  not  and  cannot  be 
withdrawn.  A  work  of  art  forms  a  unity  on  a  quite  different 
plane,  with  a  quite  different  relation  to  reality,  than  a  book  of 
memoirs,  a  diary,  or  a  letter.  Only  by  a  perversion  of  the  bio- 
graphical method  could  the  most  intimate  and  frequently  the 
most  casual  documents  of  an  author's  life  become  the  central 
study  while  the  actual  poems  were  interpreted  in  the  light  of  the 
documents  and  arranged  according  to  a  scale  entirely  separate 
from  or  even  contradictory  to  that  provided  by  any  critical  judg- 
ment of  the  poems.  Thus  Brandes  slights  Macbeth  as  uninter- 
esting because  it  is  least  related  to  what  he  conceives  to  be 
Shakespeare's  personality}  thus,  Kingsmill  complains  of  Arnold's 
Sohrab  and  Rustum.7 

Even  when  a  work  of  art  contains  elements  which  can  be 
surely  identified  as  biographical,  these  elements  will  be  so  re- 


72  Theory  of  Literature 

arranged  and  transformed  in  a  work  that  they  lose  all  their 
specifically  personal  meaning  and  become  simply  concrete  human 
material,  integral  elements  of  a  work.  Ramon  Fernandez  has 
argued  this  very  convincingly  in  connection  with  Stendhal. 
G.  W.  Meyer  has  shown  how  much  the  professedly  autobio- 
graphical Prelude  differs  from  Wordsworth's  actual  life  during 
the  process  the  poem  purports  to  describe.s 

The  whole  view  that  art  is  self-expression  pure  and  simple, 
the  transcript  of  personal  feelings  and  experiences,  is  demon- 
strably false.  Even  when  there  is  a  close  relationship  between 
the  work  of  art  and  the  life  of  an  author,  this  must  never  be 
construed  as  meaning  that  the  work  of  art  is  a  mere  copy  of  life. 
The  biographical  approach  forgets  that  a  work  of  art  is  not 
simply  the  embodiment  of  experience  but  always  the  latest  work 
of  art  in  a  series  of  such  works;  it  is  drama,  a  novel,  a  poem 
"determined,"  so  far  as  it  is  determined  at  all,  by  literary  tra- 
dition and  convention.  The  biographical  approach  actually  ob- 
scures a  proper  comprehension  of  the  literary  process,  since  it 
breaks  up  the  order  of  literary  tradition  to  substitute  the  life 
cycle  of  an  individual.  The  biographical  approach  ignores  also 
quite  simple  psychological  facts.  A  work  of  art  may  rather  em- 
body the  "dream"  of  an  author  than  his  actual  life,  or  it  may 
be  the  "mask,"  the  "anti-self"  behind  which  his  real  person  is 
hiding,  or  it  may  be  a  picture  of  the  life  from  which  the  author 
wants  to  escape.  Furthermore,  we  must  not  forget  that  the  artist 
may  "experience"  life  differently  in  terms  of  his  art:  actual  ex- 
periences are  seen  with  a  view  to  their  use  in  literature  and  come 
to  him  already  partially  shaped  by  artistic  traditions  and  pre- 
conceptions.9 

We  must  conclude  that  the  biographical  interpretation  and 
use  of  every  work  of  art  needs  careful  scrutiny  and  examination 
in  each  case,  since  the  work  of  art  is  not  a  document  for  biog- 
raphy. We  must  seriously  question  Miss  Wade's  Life  of  Tra- 
herney  which  takes  every  statement  of  his  poems  as  literal  bio- 
graphical truth,  or  the  many  books  about  the  lives  of  the  Brontes 
which  simply  lift  whole  passages  from  Jane  Eyre  or  Villette. 
There  is  The  Life  and  Eager  Death  of  Emily  Bronte  by  Vir- 
ginia Moore,  who  thinks  that  Emily  must  have  experienced  the 
passions  of  Heathcliffj  and  there  are  others  who  have  argued 


Literature  and  Biografhy  J  3 

that  a  woman  could  not  have  written  Wuthering  Heights  and 
that  the  brother,  Patrick,  must  have  been  the  real  author.10 
This  is  the  type  of  argument  which  has  led  people  to  argue  that 
Shakespeare  must  have  visited  Italy,  must  have  been  a  lawyer, 
a  soldier,  a  teacher,  a  farmer.  Ellen  Terry  gave  the  crushing 
reply  to  all  this  when  she  argued  that,  by  the  same  criteria, 
Shakespeare  must  have  been  a  woman. 

But,  it  will  be  said,  such  instances  of  pretentious  folly  do  not 
dispose  of  the  problem  of  personality  in  literature.  We  read 
Dante  or  Goethe  or  Tolstoy  and  know  that  there  is  a  person 
behind  the  work.  There  is  an  indubitable  physiognomical  simi- 
larity between  the  writings  of  one  author.  The  question  might 
be  asked,  however,  whether  it  would  not  be  better  to  distinguish 
sharply  between  the  empirical  person  and  the  work,  which  can 
be  called  "personal"  only  in  a  metaphorical  sense.  There  is  a 
quality  which  we  may  call  "Miltonic"  or  "Keatsian"  in  the  work 
of  their  authors.  But  this  quality  can  be  determined  on  the  basis 
of  the  works  themselves,  while  it  may  not  be  ascertainable  upon 
purely  biographical  evidence.  We  know  what  is  "Virgilian"  or 
"Shakespearian"  without  having  any  really  definite  biographical 
knowledge  of  the  two  great  poets. 

Still,  there  are  connecting  links,  parallelisms,  oblique  resem- 
blances, topsy-turvy  mirrors.  The  poet's  work  may  be  a  mask, 
a  dramatized  conventionalization,  but  it  is  frequently  a  conven- 
tionalization of  his  own  experiences,  his  own  life.  If  used  with  a 
sense  of  these  distinctions,  there  is  use  in  biographical  study. 
First,  no  doubt,  it  has  exegetical  value:  it  may  explain  a  great 
many  allusions  or  even  words  in  an  author's  work.  The  bio- 
graphical framework  will  also  help  us  in  studying  the  most  ob- 
vious of  all  strictly  developmental  problems  in  the  history  of 
literature — the  growth,  maturing,  and  possible  decline  of  an 
author's  art.  Biography  also  accumulates  the  materials  for  other 
questions  of  literary  history  such  as  the  reading  of  the  poet,  his 
personal  associations  with  literary  men,  his  travels,  the  land- 
scape and  cities  he  saw  and  lived  in:  all  of  them  questions  which 
may  throw  light  on  literary  history,  i.e.,  the  tradition  in  which 
the  poet  was  placed,  the  influences  by  which  he  was  shaped,  the 
materials  on  which  he  drew. 

Whatever  the  importance  of  biography  in  these  respects,  how- 


74  Theory  of  Literature 

ever,  it  seems  dangerous  to  ascribe  to  it  any  real  critical  impor- 
tance. No  biographical  evidence  can  change  or  influence  critical 
evaluation.  The  frequently  adduced  criterion  of  "sincerity"  is 
thoroughly  false  if  it  judges  literature  in  terms  of  biographical 
truthfulness,  correspondence  to  the  author's  experience  or  feel- 
ings as  they  are  attested  by  outside  evidence.  Byron's  "Fare 
Thee  Well  .  .  ."  is  neither  a  worse  nor  a  better  poem  because 
it  dramatizes  the  poet's  actual  relations  with  his  wife,  nor  "is  it  a 
pity,"  as  Paul  Elmer  More  thinks,  that  the  MS  shows  no  traces 
of  the  tears  which,  according  to  Thomas  Moore's  Memoranda, 
fell  on  it.11  The  poem  exists ;  the  tears  shed  or  unshed,  the  per- 
sonal emotions,  are  gone  and  cannot  be  reconstructed,  nor  need 
they  be. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

Literature  and  Psychology 

By  "psychology  of  literature,"  we  may  mean  the  psychological 
study  of  the  writer,  as  type  and  as  individual,  or  the  study  of 
the  creative  process,  or  the  study  of  the  psychological  types  and 
laws  present  within  works  of  literature,  or,  finally,  the  effects 
of  literature  upon  its  readers  (audience  psychology).  The  fourth 
we  shall  consider  under  "Literature  and  Society";  the  other 
three  shall  here  be  discussed  in  turn.  Probably  only  the  third 
belongs,  in  the  strictest  sense,  to  literary  study.  The  first  two  are 
subdivisions  of  the  psychology  of  art:  though,  at  times,  they 
may  serve  as  engaging  pedagogic  approaches  to  the  study  of  lit- 
erature, we  should  disavow  any  attempt  to  evaluate  literary 
works  in  terms  of  their  origins  (the  genetic  fallacy). 

The  nature  of  literary  genius  has  always  attracted  speculation, 
and  it  was,  as  early  as  the  Greeks,  conceived  of  as  related  to 
"madness"  (to  be  glossed  as  the  range  from  neuroticism  to  psy- 
chosis). The  poet  is  the  "possessed":  he  is  unlike  other  men,  at 
once  less  and  more;  and  the  unconscious  out  of  which  he  speaks 
is  felt  to  be  at  once  sub-  and  superrational. 

Another  early  and  persistent  conception  is  that  of  the  poet's 
"gift"  as  compensatory:  the  Muse  took  away  the  sight  of 
Demodocos'  eyes  but  "gave  him  the  lovely  gift  of  song"  (in 
the  Odyssey),  as  the  blinded  Tiresias  is  given  prophetic  vision. 
Handicap  and  endowment  are  not  always,  of  course,  so  directly 
correlative  j  and  the  malady  or  deformity  may  be  psychological 
or  social  instead  of  physical.  Pope  was  a  hunchback  and  a  dwarf; 
Byron  had  a  club-foot;  Proust  was  an  asthmatic  neurotic  of 
partly  Jewish  descent;  Keats  was  shorter  than  other  men; 
Thomas  Wolfe,  much  taller.  The  difficulty  with  the  theory  is 
its  very  ease.  After  the  event,  any  success  can  be  attributed  to 
compensatory  motivation,  for  everyone  has  liabilities  which 
may  serve  him  as  spurs.  Dubious,  certainly,  is  the  widespread 

75 


7  6  Theory  of  Literature 

view  that  neuroticism — and  "compensation" — differentiate  artists 
from  scientists  and  other  "contemplatives" :  the  obvious  distinc- 
tion is  that  writers  often  document  their  own  cases,  turning 
their  maladies  into  their  thematic  material.1 

The  basic  questions  are  these:  If  the  writer  is  a  neurotic,  does 
his  neurosis  provide  the  themes  of  his  work  or  only  its  motiva- 
tion? If  the  latter,  then  the  writer  is  not  to  be  differentiated  from 
other  contemplatives.  The  other  question  is:  If  the  writer  is  neu- 
rotic in  his  themes  (as  Kafka  certainly  is),  how  is  it  that  his 
work  is  intelligible  to  his  readers?  The  writer  must  be  doing  far 
more  than  putting  down  a  case  history.  He  must  either  be  deal- 
ing with  an  archetypal  pattern  (as  does  Dostoevsky,  in  The 
Brothers  Karamazov)  or  with  a  "neurotic  personality"  pattern 
widespread  in  our  time. 

Freud's  view  of  the  writer  is  not  quite  steady.  Like  many  of 
his  European  colleagues,  notably  Jung  and  Rank,  he  was  a  man 
of  high  general  culture,  with  the  educated  Austrian's  respect  for 
the  classics  and  classical  German  literature.  Then,  too,  he  dis- 
covered in  literature  many  insights  anticipating  and  corroborat- 
ing his  own — in  Dostoevsky's  The  Brothers  Karamazov,  in 
Hamlet,  in  Diderot's  Nephew  of  Rameau,  in  Goethe.  But  he 
also  thought  of  the  author  as  an  obdurate  neurotic  who,  by  his 
creative  work,  kept  himself  from  a  crackup  but  also  from  any 
real  cure.  "The  artist,"  says  Freud,  "is  originally  a  man  who 
turns  from  reality  because  he  cannot  come  to  terms  with  the 
demand  for  the  renunciation  of  instinctual  satisfaction  as  it  is 
first  made,  and  who  then  in  phantasy-life  allows  full  play  to  his 
erotic  and  ambitious  wishes.  But  he  finds  a  way  of  return  from 
this  world  of  phantasy  back  to  reality;  with  his  special  gifts,  he 
moulds  his  phantasies  into  a  new  kind  of  reality,  and  men  con- 
cede them  a  justification  as  valuable  reflections  of  actual  life. 
Thus  by  a  certain  path  he  actually  becomes  the  hero,  king, 
creator,  favorite  he  desired  to  be,  without  the  circuitous  path  of 
creating  real  alterations  in  the  outer  world."  The  poet,  that  is, 
is  a  daydreamer  who  is  socially  validated.  Instead  of  altering 
his  character,  he  perpetuates  and  publishes  his  phantasies.2 

Such  an  account  presumably  disposes  of  the  philosopher  and 
the  "pure  scientist"  along  with  the  artist,  and  is,  therefore,  a 
kind  of  positivist  "reduction"  of  contemplative  activity  to  an 


Literature  and  Psychology  77 

observing  and  naming  instead  of  acting.  It  scarcely  does  justice 
to  the  indirect  or  oblique  effect  of  contemplative  work,  to  the 
"alterations  in  the  outer  world"  effected  by  the  readers  of  nov- 
elists and  philosophers.  It  also  fails  to  recognize  that  creation  is 
itself  a  mode  of  work  in  the  outer  world ;  that,  while  the  day- 
dreamer  is  content  to  dream  of  writing  his  dreams,  one  who  is 
actually  writing  is  engaged  in  an  act  of  externalization  and  of 
adjustment  to  society. 

Most  writers  have  drawn  back  from  subscription  to  orthodox 
Freudianism  or  from  completing — what  some  have  begun — their 
psychoanalytic  treatment.  Most  of  them  have  not  wanted  to  be 
"cured"  or  "adjusted,"  either  thinking  they  would  cease  to  write 
if  they  were  adjusted,  or  that  the  adjustment  proposed  was  to 
a  normality  or  a  social  environment  which  they  rejected  as 
philistine  or  bourgeois.  Thus  Auden  has  asserted  that  artists 
should  be  as  neurotic  as  they  can  endure ;  and  many  have 
agreed  with  such  revisionist  Freudians  as  Horney,  Fromm,  and 
Kardiner,  that  Freud's  conceptions  of  neurosis  and  normality, 
drawn  from  turn-of-the-century  Vienna,  need  to  be  corrected 
by  Marx  and  the  anthropologists.3 

The  theory  of  art  as  neurosis  raises  the  question  of  imagina- 
tion in  relation  to  belief.  Is  the  novelist  analogous  not  only  to 
the  romantic  child  who  "tells  stories" — i.e.,  reconstructs  his 
experience  till  it  conforms  to  his  pleasure  and  credit,  but  also  to 
the  man  who  suffers  from  hallucinations,  confounding  the  world 
of  reality  with  the  phantasy  world  of  his  hopes  and  fears?  Some 
novelists  (e.g.,  Dickens)  have  spoken  of  vividly  seeing  and 
hearing  their  characters,  and,  again,  of  the  characters  as  taking 
over  the  control  of  the  story,  shaping  it  to  an  end  different  from 
the  novelist's  preliminary  design.  None  of  the  instances  cited  by 
psychologists  seem  to  bear  out  the  charge  of  hallucination ;  some 
novelists  may,  however,  have  the  capacity,  common  among  chil- 
dren, but  rare  thereafter,  of  eidetic  imagery  (neither  after- 
images nor  memory-images  yet  perceptual,  sensory,  in  char- 
acter). In  the  judgment  of  Erich  Jaensch,  this  capacity  is  symp- 
tomatic of  the  artist's  special  integration  of  perceptual  and  con- 
ceptual. He  retains,  and  has  developed,  an  archaic  trait  of  the 
race:  he  feels  and  even  sees  his  thoughts.4 

Another  trait  sometimes  assigned  to  the  literary  man — more 


78  Theory  of  Literature 

specifically,  the  poet — is  synaesthesia,  or  the  linking  together  of 
sensory  perceptions  out  of  two  or  more  senses,  most  commonly, 
hearing  and  sight  {audition  coloree:  e.g.,  the  trumpet  as  scarlet). 
As  a  physiological  trait,  it  is  apparently,  like  red-green  color 
blindness,  a  survival  from  an  earlier  comparatively  undifferen- 
tiated sensorium.  Much  more  frequently,  however,  synaesthesia 
is  a  literary  technique,  a  form  of  metaphorical  translation,  the 
stylized  expression  of  a  metaphysical-aesthetic  attitude  towards 
life.  Historically,  this  attitude  and  style  are  characteristic  of  the 
Baroque  and  the  Romantic  periods  and  correspondingly  distaste- 
ful to  rationalist  periods  in  search  of  the  "clear  and  distinct" 
rather  than  "correspondences,"  analogies,  and  unifications.5 

Since  his  earliest  critical  writing,  T.  S.  Eliot  has  urged  an 
inclusive  view  of  the  poet  as  recapitulating — or,  better,  preserv- 
ing intact — his  strata  of  the  race-history,  of  keeping  his  commu- 
nication open  with  his  own  childhood  and  that  of  the  race  while 
reaching  forward  into  the  future:  "The  artist,"  he  wrote  in  19 18, 
"is  more  primitive,  as  well  as  more  civilized,  than  his  contem- 
poraries. .  .  ."  In  1932,  he  recurs  to  this  conception,  speaking 
particularly  of  the  "auditory  imagination"  but  also  of  the  poet's 
visual  imagery,  and  especially  his  recurrent  images,  which  "may 
have  symbolic  value,  but  of  what  we  cannot  tell,  for  they  have 
come  to  represent  the  depths  of  feeling  into  which  we  cannot 
peer."  Eliot  cites  with  approval  the  work  of  Cailliet  and  Bede 
on  the  relation  of  the  Symbolist  Movement  to  the  primitive 
psyche,  summarizing:  "the  pre-logical  mentality  persists  in  civi- 
lized man,  but  becomes  available  only  to  or  through  the  poet."  G 

In  these  passages  it  is  not  difficult  to  discover  the  influence  of 
Carl  Jung  and  a  restatement  of  the  Jungian  thesis  that  beneath 
the  individual  "unconscious" — the  blocked-off  residue  of  our 
past,  particularly  our  childhood  and  infancy — lies  the  "collective 
unconscious" — the  blocked-off  memory  of  our  racial  past,  even 
of  our  pre-humanity. 

Jung  has  an  elaborate  psychological  typology,  according  to 
which  "extravert"  and  "introvert"  subdivide  the  four  types 
based  upon  the  dominance  respectively  of  thinking,  feeling, 
intuition,  sensation.  He  does  not,  as  one  might  have  supposed, 
assign  all  writers  to  the  intuitive-introverted  category,  or,  more 
generally,  to  the  category  of  the  introvert.  As  a  further  guard 


Literature  and  Psychology  79 

against  simplification,  he  remarks  that  some  writers  reveal  their 
type  in  their  creative  work,  while  others  reveal  their  anti-type, 
their  complement.7 

Homo  scriftor,  it  should  be  conceded,  is  not  a  single  type.  If 
we  devise  a  romantic  blend  of  Coleridge,  Shelley,  Baudelaire, 
and  Poe,  we  must  presently  remember  Racine,  Milton,  and 
Goethe,  or  Jane  Austen  and  Anthony  Trollope.  We  may  begin 
by  differentiating  lyric  poets,  and  Romantic  poets,  from  dra- 
matic and  epic  poets  and  their  partial  equivalents,  the  novelists. 
One  of  the  German  typologists,  Kretschmer,  separates  the  poets 
(who  are  leptosomatic  and  incline  to  schizophrenia)  from  the 
novelists  (who  are  pyknic  of  physical  structure  and  manic- 
depressive  or  "cycloid"  of  temperament).  There  is  certainly  a 
typological  pair  of  the  "possessed,"  i.e.,  the  automatic  or  obses- 
sive or  prophetic  poet,  and  the  "maker,"  the  writer  who  is  pri- 
marily a  trained,  skillful,  responsible  craftsman.  This  distinction 
seems  partly  historical:  the  "possessed"  is  the  primitive  poet, 
the  shaman  j  then  the  Romantic,  the  Expressionist,  the  Surreal- 
ist, we  say.  The  professional  poets,  trained  in  the  bardic  schools 
of  Ireland  and  Iceland,  the  poets  of  the  Renaissance  and  neo- 
classicism,  are  "makers."  But  of  course  these  types  must  be 
understood  as  not  mutually  exclusive  but  polar ;  and  in  the  in- 
stances of  great  writers — including  Milton,  Poe,  James,  and 
Eliot  as  well  as  Shakespeare  and  Dostoevsky — we  have  to  think 
of  the  writer  as  both  "maker"  and  "possessed,"  as  combining 
an  obsessively  held  vision  of  life  with  a  conscious,  precise  care 
for  the  presentation  of  that  vision.8 

Perhaps  the  most  influential  of  modern  polarities  is  Nietzsche's 
in  The  Birth  of  Tragedy  (1872),  that  between  Apollo  and 
Dionysus,  the  two  art-deities  of  the  Greeks,  and  the  two  kinds 
and  processes  of  art  which  they  represent:  the  arts  of  sculpture 
and  of  music  j  the  psychological  states  of  the  dream  and  of 
ecstatic  inebriation.  These  correspond  approximately  to  the  clas- 
sical "maker"  and  the  romantic  "possessed"  (or  foeta  vates). 

Though  he  does  not  avow  it,  the  French  psychologist  Ribot 
must  owe  to  Nietzsche  the  basis  for  his  own  division  of  literary 
artists  between  the  two  chief  types  of  imagination.  The  former 
of  these,  the  "plastic,"  characterizes  the  sharp  visualizer  who  is 
primarily  incited  by  observation  of  the  outside  world,  by  per- 


80  Theory  of  Literature 

ception,  while  the  "diffluent"  (the  auditory  and  symbolic)  is  that 
of  the  symbolist  poet  or  the  writer  of  Romantic  tales  (Tieck, 
Hoffmann,  Poe),  who  starts  from  his  own  emotions  and  feelings, 
projecting  them  through  rhythms  and  images  unified  by  the 
compulsion  of  his  Stimmung.  It  is  doubtless  from  Ribot  that 
Eliot  starts  in  his  contrast  of  Dante's  "visual  imagination"  and 
Milton's  "auditory." 

One  more  specimen  may  be  offered,  that  of  L.  Rusu,  a  con- 
temporary Rumanian  scholar,  who  distinguishes  three  basic 
types  of  artist:  the  "type  sympathique"  (conceived  of  as  gay, 
spontaneous,  bird-like  in  its  creativity),  the  "type  detnoniaque 
anarchique"  and  the  "type  demoniaque  equilibre."  The  exam- 
ples are  not  always  fortunate ;  but  there  is  a  general  suggestive- 
ness  to  the  thesis  and  antithesis  of  "sympathetic"  and  "anarchic" 
with  a  synthesizing  greatest  type  in  which  the  struggle  with  the 
daemon  has  ended  in  triumph,  an  equilibrium  of  tensions.  Rusu 
cites  Goethe  as  the  example  of  this  greatness ;  but  we  shall  have 
to  assign  it  all  our  greatest  names — Dante,  Shakespeare,  Balzac, 
Dickens,  Tolstoy,  and  Dostoevsky.9 

The  "creative  process"  should  cover  the  entire  sequence  from 
the  subconscious  origins  of  a  literary  work  to  those  last  revisions 
which,  with  some  writers,  are  the  most  genuinely  creative  part 
of  the  whole. 

There  is  a  distinction  to  be  made  between  the  mental  struc- 
ture of  a  poet  and  the  composition  of  a  poem,  between  impres- 
sion and  expression.  Croce  has  not  won  the  assent  of  writers  and 
critics  to  his  reduction  of  both  to  aesthetic  intuition;  indeed, 
something  like  the  contrary  reduction  has  plausibly  been  argued 
by  C.  S.  Lewis.  But  any  attempt  to  dualize  the  pair  as  "Erlebnis" 
and  "Dichtung,"  after  the  fashion  of  Dilthey,  also  fails  to  sat- 
isfy. The  painter  sees  as  a  painter;  the  painting  is  the  clarifica- 
tion and  completion  of  his  seeing.  The  poet  is  a  maker  of  poems; 
but  the  matter  of  his  poems  is  the  whole  of  his  percipient  life. 
With  the  artist,  in  any  medium,  every  impression  is  shaped  by 
his  art ;  he  accumulates  no  inchoate  experience.10 

"Inspiration,"  the  traditional  name  for  the  unconscious  factor 
in  creation,  is  classically  associated  with  the  Muses,  the  daugh- 
ters of  memory,  and  in  Christian  thought  with  the  Holy  Spirit. 
By  definition,  the  inspired  state  of  a  shaman,  prophet,  or  poet, 


Literature  and  Psychology  8 1 

differs  from  his  ordinary  state.  In  primitive  societies  the  shaman 
may  voluntarily  be  able  to  put  himself  into  a  trance,  or  he  may 
involuntarily  be  "possessed"  by  some  ancestral  or  totemic  spirit- 
control.  In  modern  times,  inspiration  is  felt  to  have  the  essential 
marks  of  suddenness  (like  conversion)  and  impersonality:  the 
work  seems  written  through  one.11 

May  not  inspiration  be  induced?  Creative  habits  there  assur- 
edly are,  as  well  as  stimulants  and  rituals.  Alcohol,  opium,  and 
other  drugs  dull  the  conscious  mind,  the  overcritical  "censor," 
and  release  the  activity  of  the  subconscious.  Coleridge  and  De 
Quincey  made  a  more  grandiose  claim — that  through  opium,  a 
whole  new  world  of  experience  was  opened  up  for  literary 
treatment  ;  but  in  the  light  of  modern  clinical  reports  it  appears 
that  the  unusual  elements  in  the  work  of  such  poets  derive  from 
their  neurotic  psyches  and  not  from  the  specific  effect  of  the 
drug.  Miss  Elizabeth  Schneider  has  shown  that  De  Quincey's 
"literary  'opium  dreams,'  so  influential  on  later  writing,  actually 
differ  little,  save  in  elaborateness,  from  an  entry  made  in  his 
diary  in  1 803  before  his  use  of  opium  began.  .  .  ."  12 

As  the  mantic  poets  of  primitive  communities  are  taught 
methods  of  putting  themselves  into  states  conducive  to  "posses- 
sion" and  as,  by  spiritual  disciplines  of  the  East,  the  religious 
are  advised  to  use  set  places  and  times  for  prayer,  and  special 
"ejaculations"  or  mantras,  so  writers  of  the  modern  world  learn, 
or  think  they  learn,  rituals  for  inducing  the  creative  state. 
Schiller  kept  rotten  apples  in  his  work-desk;  Balzac  wrote 
dressed  in  the  robes  of  a  monk.  Many  writers  think  "hori- 
zontally," and  even  write  in  bed — writers  as  different  as  Proust 
and  Mark  Twain.  Some  require  silence  and  solitude ;  but  others 
prefer  to  write  in  the  midst  of  the  family  or  the  company  at  a 
cafe.  There  are  instances,  which  attract  attention  as  sensational, 
of  authors  who  work  through  the  night  and  sleep  during  the 
day.  Probably  this  devotion  to  the  night  (time  of  contempla- 
tion, the  dream,  the  subconscious)  is  the  chief  Romantic  tradi- 
tion; but  there  is,  we  must  remember,  a  rival  Romantic  tradi- 
tion, the  Wordsworthian,  which  exalts  the  early  morning  (the 
freshness  of  childhood).  Some  authors  assert  that  they  can  write 
only  at  certain  seasons,  as  did  Milton,  who  held  that  his  poetic 
vein  never  flowed  happily  but  from  the  autumnal  equinox  to  the 


82  Theory  of  Literature 

vernal.  Dr.  Johnson,  who  found  all  such  theories  distasteful, 
believed  that  a  man  might  write  at  any  time  if  he  would  set 
himself  doggedly  to  it :  he  himself  wrote  confessedly  under  eco- 
nomic compulsion.  But  one  can  suppose  that  these  seemingly 
capricious  rituals  have  in  common  that,  by  association  and  habit, 
they  facilitate  systematic  production.13 

Does  the  mode  of  transcription  have  any  demonstrable  effect 
on  the  literary  style?  Does  it  matter  whether  one  writes  a  first 
draught  with  pen  and  ink  or  composes  directly  on  the  type- 
writer? Hemingway  thinks  that  the  typewriter  "solidifies  one's 
sentences  before  they  are  ready  to  print,"  hence  makes  revision 
as  an  integral  part  of  writing  difficult  j  others  suppose  the  in- 
strument has  made  for  overfluent  or  journalistic  style.  No  em- 
pirical investigation  has  been  made.  As  for  dictation,  it  has  been 
used  by  authors  of  very  various  quality  and  spirit.  Milton  dic- 
tated to  an  amanuensis  verses  of  Paradise  Lost  already  com- 
posed in  his  head.  More  interesting,  however,  are  the  instances 
of  Scott,  Goethe  in  his  old  age,  and  Henry  James  in  his,  in 
which,  though  the  structure  has  been  thought  out  in  advance, 
the  verbal  texture  is  extemporized.  In  the  case  of  James,  at  least, 
it  seems  possible  to  make  some  causal  connection  between  dic- 
tation and  the  "later  manner,"  which,  in  its  own  complexly  elo- 
quent way,  is  oral  and  even  conversational.14 

Of  the  creative  process  itself,  not  much  has  been  said  at  the 
degree  of  generalization  profitable  to  literary  theory.  We  have 
the  individual  case  histories  of  particular  authors;  but  these  of 
course  will  be  authors  from  comparatively  recent  times  only, 
and  authors  given  to  thinking  and  writing  analytically  about 
their  art  (authors  like  Goethe  and  Schiller,  Flaubert,  James, 
Eliot  and  Valery) ;  and  then  we  have  the  long-distance  gener- 
alizations made  by  psychologists  concerning  such  topics  as  origi- 
nality, invention,  imagination,  finding  the  common  denominator 
between  scientific,  philosophical,  and  aesthetic  creation. 

Any  modern  treatment  of  the  creative  process  will  chiefly  con- 
cern the  relative  parts  played  by  the  unconscious  and  the  con- 
scious mind.  It  would  be  easy  to  contrast  literary  periods:  to 
distinguish  romantic  and  expressionistic  periods  which  exalt  the 
unconscious  from  classical  and  realistic  periods  which  stress  in- 
telligence, revision,  communication.  But  such  a  contrast  may 


Literature  and  Psychology  83 

readily  be  exaggerated:  the  critical  theories  of  classicism  and 
romanticism  differ  more  violently  than  the  creative  practice  of 
their  best  writers. 

The  authors  most  given  to  discussing  their  art  wish  naturally 
to  discuss  their  conscious  and  technical  procedures,  for  which 
they  may  claim  credit,  rather  than  their  "given,"  the  unelected 
experience  which  is  their  matter  or  their  mirror  or  their  prism. 
There  are  obvious  reasons  why  self-conscious  artists  speak  as 
though  their  art  were  impersonal,  as  though  they  chose  their 
themes  either  by  editorial  compulsion  or  as  a  gratuitous  aesthetic 
problem.  The  most  famous  document  on  the  topic,  Poe's  "Phi- 
losophy of  Composition,"  professes  to  explain  by  what  methodo- 
logical strategies,  proceeding  from  what  initial  aesthetic  axioms, 
his  "Raven"  was  constructed.  To  defend  his  vanity  against  the 
charge  that  his  horror  tales  were  literary  imitations,  Poe  wrote 
that  their  horrors  were  not  of  Germany  but  of  the  soul;  yet  that 
they  were  of  his  own  soul  he  could  not  admit:  he  professed  to 
be  a  literary  engineer,  skilled  at  manipulating  the  souls  of 
others.  In  Poe,  the  division  is  terrifyingly  complete  between  the 
unconscious,  which  provides  the  obsessive  themes  of  delirium, 
torture,  and  death,  and  the  conscious,  which  literarily  develops 
them.15 

Were  we  to  set  up  tests  for  the  discovery  of  literary  talent, 
they  would  doubtless  be  of  two  sorts:  one,  that  for  poets  in  the 
modern  sense,  would  concern  itself  with  words  and  their  com- 
bination, with  image  and  metaphor,  with  linkages  semantic  and 
phonetic  (i.e.,  rhyme,  assonance,  alliteration) ;  the  latter,  for 
narrative  writers  (novelists  and  dramatists)  would  concern  itself 
with  characterization  and  plot-structure. 

The  literary  man  is  a  specialist  in  association  ("wit"),  disso- 
ciation ("judgment"),  recombination  (making  a  new  whole  out 
of  elements  separately  experienced).  He  uses  words  as  his  me- 
dium. As  a  child,  he  may  collect  words  as  other  children  col- 
lect dolls,  stamps,  or  pets.  For  the  poet,  the  word  is  not  pri- 
marily a  "sign,"  a  transparent  counter,  but  a  "symbol,"  valuable 
for  itself  as  well  as  in  its  capacity  of  representative ;  it  may  even 
be  an  "object"  or  "thing,"  dear  for  its  sound  or  look.  Some  nov- 
elists may  use  words  as  signs  (Scott,  Cooper,  Dreiser),  in  which 
case  they  may  be  read  to  advantage  translated  into  another  Ian- 


84  Theory  of  Literature 

guage,  or  remembered  as  mythic  structure;  poets  normally  us& 
words  "symbolically."  16 

The  traditional  phrase,  the  "association  of  ideas,"  is  an  in- 
accurate name.  Beyond  the  associative  linkage  of  word  with  word 
(marked  in  some  poets)  there  is  the  association  of  the  objects 
to  which  our  mental  "ideas"  refer.  The  chief  categories  of  such 
association  are  contiguity  in  time  and  place,  and  similarity  or 
dissimilarity.  The  novelist  operates  primarily,  perhaps,  in  terms 
of  the  former j  the  poet,  in  terms  of  the  latter  (which  we  may 
equate  with  metaphor) ;  but — especially  in  recent  literature — 
the  contrast  must  not  be  made  too  strong. 

In  his  Road  to  Xanadu ,  Lowes  reconstructs  with  the  acumen 
of  a  brilliant  detective  the  process  of  association  by  which  the 
vastly  and  curiously  read  Coleridge  moved  from  one  quotation 
or  allusion  to  another.  As  for  theory,  however,  he  is  soon  con- 
tent: a  few  purely  figurative  terms  serve  him  to  describe  the 
creative  process.  He  speaks  of  the  "hooked  atoms"  or  (in  the 
phrase  of  Henry  James)  of  images  and  ideas  as  dropping  for 
a  time  "into  the  deep  well  of  unconscious  cerebration,"  to 
emerge  having  undergone  (in  the  favorite  quotation  of  scholars) 
a  "sea-change."  When  Coleridge's  recondite  reading  reappears, 
we  sometimes  get  "marquetry"  or  "mosaic,"  sometimes  a 
"miracle."  Lowes  formally  acknowledges  that  "at  the  zenith  of 
its  power  the  creative  energy  is  both  conscious  and  unconscious 
.  .  .  controlling  consciously  the  throng  of  images  which  in  the 
reservoir  [the  "well"  of  the  unconscious]  have  undergone  un- 
conscious metamorphosis"  j  but  he  scarcely  attends  to  or  attempts 
to  define  the  really  purposive  and  constructive  in  the  creative 
process.17 

In  the  narrative  writer,  we  think  of  his  creation  of  characters 
and  his  "invention"  of  stories.  Since  the  Romantic  period,  both 
have  undoubtedly  been  conceived  of  too  simply  as  either 
"original"  or  copied  from  real  people  (a  view  read  back  also 
into  the  literature  of  the  past)  or  plagiarism.  Yet  even  in  the 
most  "original"  novelists  like  Dickens,  character  types  and  nar- 
rative techniques  are  chiefly  traditional,  drawn  from  the  profes- 
sional, the  institutional  literary  stock.ls 

The  creation  of  characters  may  be  supposed  to  blend,  in  vary- 
ing degrees,  inherited  literary  types,  persons  observed,  and  the 


Literature  and  Psychology  85 

self.  The  realist,  we  might  say,  chiefly  observes  behavior  or 
"empathizes,"  while  the  Romantic  writer  "projects";  yet  it  is 
to  be  doubted  that  mere  observation  can  suffice  for  life-like 
characterization.  Faust,  Mephistopheles,  Werther,  and  Wilhelm 
Meister  are  all,  says  one  psychologist,  "projections  into  fiction 
of  various  aspects  of  Goethe's  own  nature."  The  novelist's  po- 
tential selves,  including  those  selves  which  are  viewed  as  evil, 
are  all  potential  fersonae.  "One  man's  mood  is  another  man's 
character."  Dostoevsky's  four  brothers  Karamazov  are  all  aspects 
of  Dostoevsky.  Nor  should  we  suppose  that  a  novelist  is  neces- 
sarily limited  to  observation  in  his  heroines.  "Madame  Bovary, 
c'est  moi"  says  Flaubert.  Only  selves  recognized  from  within 
as  potential  can  become  "living  characters,"  not  "flat"  but 
"round."  Whatever  characters  a  novelist  has  succeeded  with 
must  be  parts  of  himself,  since  only  from  himself,  and  not 
ex  nihiloy  could  he  give  them  life.19 

What  kind  of  relation  have  these  "living  characters"  to  the 
novelist's  actual  self?  The  more  numerous  and  separate  his  char- 
acters, the  less  definite  his  own  "personality,"  it  would  seem. 
Shakespeare  disappears  into  his  plays;  neither  in  them,  nor  in 
anecdote,  do  we  get  any  sense  of  a  sharply  defined  and  indi- 
viduated character  comparable  to  that  of  Ben  Jonson.  The  char- 
acter of  the  poet,  Keats  once  wrote,  is  to  have  no  self:  "it  is 
everything  and  nothing.  ...  It  has  as  much  delight  in  con- 
ceiving an  lago  as  an  Imogen.  ...  A  Poet  is  the  most  un- 
poetical  of  any  thing  in  existence,  because  he  has  no  Identity — 
he  is  continually  informing  and  filling  some  other  body."  20 

All  these  theories  we  have  discussed  belong  actually  to  the 
psychology  of  the  writer.  The  processes  of  his  creation  are  the 
legitimate  object  of  the  psychologists'  investigative  curiosity. 
They  can  classify  the  poet  according  to  physiological  and  psy- 
chological types;  they  can  describe  his  mental  ills;  they  may 
even  explore  his  subconscious  mind.  The  evidence  of  the  psy- 
chologist may  come  from  unliterary  documents  or  it  may  be 
drawn  from  the  works  themselves.  In  the  latter  case,  it  needs 
to  be  checked  with  the  documentary  evidence,  to  be  carefully 
interpreted. 

Can  psychology,  in  its  turn,  be  used  to  interpret  and  evaluate 
the  literary  works  themselves?  Psychology  obviously  can  illumi- 


86  Theory  of  Literature 

nate  the  creative  process.  As  we  have  seen,  attention  has  been 
given  to  the  varying  methods  of  composition,  to  the  habits  of 
authors  in  revising  and  rewriting.  There  has  been  study  of  the 
genesis  of  works:  the  early  stages,  the  drafts,  the  rejected  read- 
ings. Yet  the  critical  relevance  of  much  of  this  information, 
especially  the  many  anecdotes  about  writers'  habits,  is  surely 
overrated.  A  study  of  revisions,  corrections,  and  the  like  has 
more  which  is  literarily  profitable,  since,  well  used,  it  may  help 
us  perceive  critically  relevant  fissures,  inconsistencies,  turnings, 
distortions  in  a  work  of  art.  Analyzing  how  Proust  composed 
his  cyclic  novel,  Feuillerat  illuminates  the  later  volumes,  ena- 
bling us  to  distinguish  several  layers  in  their  text.  A  study  of 
variants  seems  to  permit  glimpses  into  an  author's  workshop.21 
Yet  if  we  examine  drafts,  rejections,  exclusions,  and  cuts  more 
soberly,  we  conclude  them  not,  finally,  necessary  to  an  under- 
standing of  the  finished  work  or  to  a  judgment  upon  it.  Their 
interest  is  that  of  any  alternative,  i.e.,  they  may  set  into  relief 
the  qualities  of  the  final  text.  But  the  same  end  may  very  well 
be  achieved  by  devising  for  ourselves  alternatives,  whether  or 
not  they  have  actually  passed  through  the  author's  mind.  Keats' 
verses  in  the  "Ode  to  the  Nightingale": 

The  same  [voice]  that  oft-times  hath 
Charmed  magic  casements  opening  on  the  foam 
Of  perilous  seas,  in  faery  lands  forlorn, 

may  gain  something  from  our  knowing  that  Keats  considered 
"ruthless  seas"  and  even  "keelless  seas."  But  the  status  of 
"ruthless"  or  "keelless,"  by  chance  preserved,  does  not  essen- 
tially differ  from  "dangerous,"  "empty,"  "barren,"  "shipless," 
"cruel,"  or  any  other  adjective  the  critic  might  invoke.  They  do 
not  belong  to  the  work  of  art;  nor  do  these  genetic  questions 
dispense  with  the  analysis  and  evaluation  of  the  actual  work.22 
There  remains  the  question  of  "psychology"  in  the  works 
themselves.  Characters  in  plays  and  novels  are  judged  by  us 
to  be  "psychologically"  true.  Situations  are  praised  and  plots 
accepted  because  of  this  same  quality.  Sometimes,  a  psycho- 
logical theory,  held  either  consciously  or  dimly  by  an  author, 
seems  to  fit  a  figure  or  a  situation.  Thus  Lily  Campbell  has 
argued  that  Hamlet  fits  the  type  of  "sanguine  man's  suffering 


Literature  and  Psychology  87 

from  melancholy  adust"  known  to  the  Elizabethans  from  their 
psychological  theories.  In  like  fashion  Oscar  Campbell  has  tried 
to  show  that  Jaques,  in  As  You  Like  It,  is  a  case  of  "unnatural 
melancholy  produced  by  adustion  of  phlegm."  Walter  Shandy 
could  be  shown  to  suffer  from  the  disease  of  linguistic  associa- 
tionism  described  in  Locke.  Stendhal's  hero  Julien  Sorel  is  de- 
scribed in  terms  of  the  psychology  of  Destutt  de  Tracy,  and  the 
different  kinds  of  love  relationship  are  obviously  classified  ac- 
cording to  Stendhal's  own  book  De  ly Amour.  Rodion  Raskol- 
nikov's  motives  and  feelings  are  analyzed  in  a  way  which  sug- 
gests some  knowledge  of  clinical  psychology.  Proust  certainly 
has  a  whole  psychological  theory  of  memory,  important  even 
for  the  organization  of  his  work.  Freudian  psychoanalysis  is 
used  quite  consciously  by  novelists  such  as  Conrad  Aiken  or 
Waldo  Frank.23 

The  question  may  be  raised,  of  course,  whether  the  author 
has  really  succeeded  in  incorporating  psychology  into  his  figures 
and  their  relationships.  Mere  statements  of  his  knowledge  or 
theories  would  not  count.  They  would  be  "matter"  or  "content," 
like  any  other  type  of  information  to  be  found  in  literature, 
e.g.,  facts  from  navigation,  astronomy,  or  history.  In  some  cases, 
the  reference  to  contemporary  psychology  may  be  doubted  or 
minimized.  The  attempts  to  fit  Hamlet  or  Jaques  into  some 
scheme  of  Elizabethan  psychology  seem  mistaken,  because 
Elizabethan  psychology  was  contradictory,  confusing,  and  con- 
fused, and  Hamlet  and  Jaques  are  more  than  types.  Though 
Raskolnikov  and  Sorel  fit  certain  psychological  theories,  they  do 
so  only  incompletely  and  intermittently.  Sorel  sometimes  be- 
haves in  a  most  melodramatic  manner.  Raskolnikov's  initial 
crime  is  inadequately  motivated.  These  books  are  not  primarily 
psychological  studies  or  expositions  of  theories  but  dramas  or 
melodramas,  where  striking  situations  are  more  important  than 
realistic  psychological  motivation.  If  one  examines  "stream  of 
consciousness"  novels,  one  soon  discovers  that  there  is  no  "real" 
reproduction  of  the  actual  mental  processes  of  the  subject,  that 
the  stream  of  consciousness  is  rather  a  device  of  dramatizing  the 
mind,  of  making  us  aware  concretely  what  Benjy,  the  idiot  in 
Faulkner's  The  Sound  and  the  Fury,  is  like,  or  what  Mrs. 


88  Theory  oj  Literature 

Bloom  is  like.  But  there  is  little  that  seems  scientific  or  even 
"realistic"  about  the  device.24 

Even  if  we  assume  that  an  author  succeeds  in  making  his  fig- 
ures behave  with  "psychological  truth,"  we  may  well  raise  the 
question  whether  such  "truth"  is  an  artistic  value.  Much  great 
art  continuously  violates  standards  of  psychology,  either  con- 
temporary with  it  or  subsequent.  It  works  with  improbable  situa- 
tions, with  fantastic  motifs.  Like  the  demand  for  social  realism, 
psychological  truth  is  a  naturalistic  standard  without  universal 
validity.  In  some  cases,  to  be  sure,  psychological  insight  seems 
to  enhance  artistic  value.  In  such  cases,  it  corroborates  important 
artistic  values,  those  of  complexity  and  coherence.  But  such  in- 
sight can  be  reached  by  other  means  than  a  theoretical  knowl- 
edge of  psychology.  In  the  sense  of  a  conscious  and  systematic 
theory  of  the  mind  and  its  workings,  psychology  is  unnecessary 
to  art  and  not  in  itself  of  artistic  value.25 

For  some  conscious  artists,  psychology  may  have  tightened 
their  sense  of  reality,  sharpened  their  powers  of  observation  or 
allowed  them  to  fall  into  hitherto  undiscovered  patterns.  But, 
in  itself,  psychology  is  only  preparatory  to  the  act  of  creation ; 
and  in  the  work  itself,  psychological  truth  is  an  artistic  value 
only  if  it  enhances  coherence  and  complexity — if,  in  short,  it 
is  art. 


CHAPTER   IX 

Literature  and  Society 

Literature  is  a  social  institution,  using  as  its  medium  language, 
a  social  creation.  Such  traditional  literary  devices  as  symbolism 
and  meter  are  social  in  their  very  nature.  They  are  conventions 
and  norms  which  could  have  arisen  only  in  society.  But,  fur- 
thermore, literature  "imitates"  "life"  3  and  "life"  is,  in  large 
measure,  a  social  reality,  even  though  the  natural  world  and 
the  inner  or  subjective  world  of  the  individual  have  also  been 
objects  of  literary  "imitation."  The  poet  himself  is  a  member 
of  society,  possessed  of  a  specific  social  status:  he  receives  some 
degree  of  social  recognition  and  reward}  he  addresses  an  audi- 
ence, however  hypothetical.  Indeed,  literature  has  usually  arisen 
in  close  connection  with  particular  social  institutions}  and  in 
primitive  society  we  may  even  be  unable  to  distinguish  poetry 
from  ritual,  magic,  work,  or  play.  Literature  has  also  a  social 
function,  or  "use,"  which  cannot  be  purely  individual.  Thus  a 
large  majority  of  the  questions  raised  by  literary  study  are,  at 
least  ultimately  or  by  implication,  social  questions:  questions  of 
tradition  and  convention,  norms  and  genres,  symbols  and  myths. 
With  Tomars,  one  can  formulate:  "Esthetic  institutions  are  not 
based  upon  social  institutions:  they  are  not  even  part  of  social 
institutions:  they  are  social  institutions  of  one  type  and  inti- 
mately interconnected  with  those  others."  x 

Usually,  however,  the  inquiry  concerning  "literature  and  so- 
ciety" is  put  more  narrowly  and  externally.  Questions  are  asked 
about  the  relations  of  literature  to  a  given  social  situation,  to  an 
economic,  social,  and  political  system.  Attempts  are  made  to 
describe  and  define  the  influence  of  society  on  literature  and  to 
prescribe  and  judge  the  position  of  literature  in  society.  This 
sociological  approach  to  literature  is  particularly  cultivated  by 
those  who  profess  a  specific  social  philosophy.  Marxist  critics  not 
only  study  these  relations  between  literature  and  society,  but 

89 


90  Theory  of  Literature 

also  have  their  clearly  defined  conception  of  what  these  relations 
should  be,  both  in  our  present  society  and  in  a  future  "classless" 
society.  They  practice  evaluative,  "judicial"  criticism,  based  on 
non-literary  political,  and  ethical  criteria.  They  tell  us  not  only 
what  were  and  are  the  social  relations  and  implications  of  an 
author's  work  but  what  they  should  have  been  or  ought  to  be.2 
They  are  not  only  students  of  literature  and  society  but  prophets 
of  the  future,  monitors,  propagandists;  and  they  have  difficulty 
in  keeping  these  two  functions  separate. 

The  relation  between  literature  and  society  is  usually  discussed 
by  starting  with  the  phrase,  derived  from  De  Bonald,  that 
"literature  is  an  expression  of  society."  But  what  does  this  axiom 
mean?  If  it  assumes  that  literature,  at  any  given  time,  mirrors 
the  current  social  situation  "correctly,"  it  is  false ;  it  is  common- 
place, trite,  and  vague  if  it  means  only  that  literature  depicts 
some  aspects  of  social  reality.3  To  say  that  literature  mirrors  or 
expresses  life  is  even  more  ambiguous.  A  writer  inevitably  ex- 
presses his  experience  and  total  conception  of  life ;  but  it  would 
be  manifestly  untrue  to  say  that  he  expresses  the  whole  of  life — 
or  even  the  whole  life  of  a  given  time — completely  and  exhaus- 
tively. It  is  a  specific  evaluative  criterion  to  say  that  an  author 
should  express  the  life  of  his  own  time  fully,  that  he  should 
be  "representative"  of  his  age  and  society.  Besides,  of  course, 
the  terms  "fully"  and  "representative"  require  much  interpre- 
tation: in  most  social  criticism  they  seem  to  mean  that  an  author 
should  be  aware  of  specific  social  situations,  e.g.,  of  the  plight 
of  the  proletariat,  or  even  that  he  should  share  a  specific  attitude 
and  ideology  of  the  critic. 

But  it  seems  best  to  postpone  the  problem  of  evaluative  criti- 
cism till  we  have  disengaged  the  actual  relations  between  lit- 
erature and  society.  These  descriptive  (as  distinct  from  norma- 
tive) relations  admit  of  rather  ready  classification. 

First,  there  is  the  sociology  of  the  writer  and  the  profession 
and  institutions  of  literature,  the  whole  question  of  the  economic 
basis  of  literary  production,  the  social  provenience  and  status  of 
the  writer,  his  social  ideology,  which  may  find  expression  in 
extraliterary  pronouncements  and  activities.  Then  there  is  the 
problem  of  the  social  content,  the  implications  and  social  pur- 
pose of  the  works  of  literature  themselves.  Lastly,  there  are  the 


Literature  and  Society  9 1 

problems  of  the  audience  and  the  actual  social  influence  of  lit- 
erature. The  question  how  far  literature  is  actually  determined 
by  or  dependent  on  its  social  setting,  on  social  change  and  de- 
velopment, is  one  which,  in  one  way  or  another,  will  enter  into 
all  the  three  divisions  of  our  problem:  the  sociology  of  the 
writer,  the  social  content  of  the  works  themselves,  and  the  in- 
fluence of  literature  on  society.  We  shall  have  to  decide  what  is 
meant  by  dependence  or  causation ;  and  ultimately  we  shall  ar- 
rive at  the  problem  of  cultural  integration  and  specifically  at  how 
our  own  culture  is  integrated. 

Since  every  writer  is  a  member  of  society,  he  can  be  studied 
as  a  social  being.  Though  his  biography  is  the  main  source,  such 
a  study  can  easily  widen  into  one  of  the  whole  milieu  from 
which  he  came  and  in  which  he  lived.  It  will  be  possible  to  ac- 
cumulate information  about  the  social  provenience,  the  family 
background,  the  economic  position  of  writers.  We  can  show  what 
was  the  exact  share  of  aristocrats,  bourgeois,  and  proletarians  in 
the  history  of  literature;  for  example,  we  can  demonstrate  the 
predominant  share  which  the  children  of  the  professional  and 
commercial  classes  take  in  the  production  of  American  litera- 
ture.4 Statistics  can  establish  that,  in  modern  Europe,  literature 
recruited  its  practitioners  largely  from  the  middle  classes,  since 
aristocracy  was  preoccupied  with  the  pursuit  of  glory  or  leisure 
while  the  lower  classes  had  little  opportunity  for  education.  In 
England,  this  generalization  holds  good  only  with  large  reser- 
vations. The  sons  of  peasants  and  workmen  appear  infrequently 
in  older  English  literature:  exceptions  such  as  Burns  and  Car- 
lyle  are  partly  explicable  by  reference  to  the  democratic  Scottish 
school  system.  The  role  of  the  aristocracy  in  English  literature 
was  uncommonly  great — partly  because  it  was  less  cut  off  from 
the  professional  classes  than  in  other  countries,  where  there  was 
no  primogeniture.  But,  with  a  few  exceptions,  all  modern  Rus- 
sian writers  before  Goncharov  and  Chekhov  were  aristocratic  in 
origin.  Even  Dostoevsky  was  technically  a  nobleman,  though  his 
father,  a  doctor  in  a  Moscow  Hospital  for  the  Poor,  acquired 
land  and  serfs  only  late  in  his  life. 

It  is  easy  enough  to  collect  such  data  but  harder  to  interpret 
them.  Does  social  provenience  prescribe  social  ideology  and 
allegiance?  The  cases  of  Shelley,  Carlyle,  and  Tolstoy  are  ob- 


92  Theory  of  Literature 

vious  examples  of  such  "treason"  to  one's  class.  Outside  of  Russia, 
most  Communist  writers  are  not  proletarian  in  origin.  Soviet  and 
other  Marxist  critics  have  carried  out  extensive  investigations  to 
ascertain  precisely  both  the  exact  social  provenience  and  the  social 
allegiance  of  Russian  writers.  Thus  P.  N.  Sakulin  bases  his  treat- 
ment of  recent  Russian  literature  on  careful  distinctions  between 
the  respective  literatures  of  the  peasants,  the  small  bourgeoisie, 
the  democratic  intelligentsia,  the  declasse  intelligentsia,  the 
bourgeoisie,  the  aristocracy,  and  the  revolutionary  proletariat.5 
In  the  study  of  older  literature,  Russian  scholars  attempt  elab- 
orate distinctions  between  the  many  groups  and  sub-groups  of 
the  Russian  aristocracy  to  whom  Pushkin  and  Gogol,  Turgenev 
and  Tolstoy  may  be  shown  to  have  belonged  by  virtue  of  their 
inherited  wealth  and  early  associations.6  But  it  is  difficult  to  prove 
that  Pushkin  represented  the  interests  of  the  impoverished 
landed  nobility  and  Gogol  those  of  the  Ukrainian  small  land- 
holder ;  such  a  conclusion  is  indeed  disproved  by  the  general 
ideology  of  their  works  and  by  the  appeal  the  works  have  made 
beyond  the  confines  of  a  group,  a  class,  and  a  time.7 

The  social  origins  of  a  writer  play  only  a  minor  part  in  the 
questions  raised  by  his  social  status,  allegiance,  and  ideology;  for 
writers,  it  is  clear,  have  often  put  themselves  at  the  service  of 
another  class.  Most  Court  poetry  was  written  by  men  who, 
though  born  in  lower  estate,  adopted  the  ideology  and  taste  of 
their  patrons. 

The  social  allegiance,  attitude,  and  ideology  of  a  writer  can  be 
studied  not  only  in  his  writings  but  also,  frequently,  in  biograph- 
ical extra-literary  documents.  The  writer  has  been  a  citizen,  has 
pronounced  on  questions  of  social  and  political  importance,  has 
taken  part  in  the  issues  of  his  time. 

Much  work  has  been  done  upon  political  and  social  views  of 
individual  writers;  and  in  recent  times  more  and  more  attention 
has  been  devoted  to  the  economic  implications  of  these  views. 
Thus  L.  C.  Knights,  arguing  that  Ben  Jonson's  economic  attitude 
was  profoundly  medieval,  shows  how,  like  several  of  his  fellow- 
dramatists,  he  satirized  the  rising  class  of  usurers,  monopolists, 
speculators,  and  "undertakers." s  Many  works  of  literature — e.g., 
the  "histories"  of  Shakespeare  and  Swift's  Gulliver's  Travels — 
have  been  reinterpreted  in  close  relation  to  the  political  context 


Literature  and  Society  93 

of  the  time.9  Pronouncements,  decisions,  and  activities  should 
never  be  confused  with  the  actual  social  implications  of  a  writer's 
works.  Balzac  is  a  striking  example  of  the  possible  division  j  for, 
though  his  professed  sympathies  were  all  with  the  old  order,  the 
aristocracy,  and  the  Church,  his  instinct  and  imagination  were 
far  more  engaged  by  the  acquisitive  type,  the  speculator,  the  new 
strong  man  of  the  bourgeoisie.  There  may  be  a  considerable  dif- 
ference between  theory  and  practice,  between  profession  of  faith 
and  creative  ability. 

These  problems  of  social  origins,  allegiance,  and  ideology  will, 
if  systematized,  lead  to  a  sociology  of  the  writer  as  a  type,  or  as 
a  type  at  a  particular  time  and  place.10  We  can  distinguish  be- 
tween writers  according  to  their  degree  of  integration  into  the 
social  process.  It  is  very  close  in  popular  literature,  but  may 
reach  the  extremes  of  dissociation,  of  "social  distance,"  in  Bo- 
hemianism,  with  the  foete  maudit  and  the  free  creative  genius. 
On  the  whole,  in  modern  times,  and  in  the  West,  the  literary 
man  seems  to  have  lessened  his  class  ties.  There  has  arisen  an 
"intelligentsia,"  a  comparatively  independent  in-between  class 
of  professionals.  It  will  be  the  task  of  literary  sociology  to  trace 
its  exact  social  status,  its  degree  of  dependence  on  the  ruling 
class,  the  exact  economic  sources  of  its  support,  the  prestige  of 
the  writer  in  each  society. 

The  general  outlines  of  this  history  are  already  fairly  clear.  In 
popular  oral  literature,  we  can  study  the  role  of  the  singer  or 
narrator  who  will  depend  closely  on  the  favor  of  his  public:  the 
bard  in  ancient  Greece,  the  scop  in  Teutonic  antiquity,  the  pro- 
fessional folk-tale  teller  in  the  Orient  and  Russia.  In  the  ancient 
Greek  city  state,  the  tragedians  and  such  composers  of  dithyrambs 
and  hymns  as  Pindar  had  their  special,  semireligious  position, 
one  slowly  becoming  more  secularized,  as  we  can  see  when  we 
compare  Euripides  with  Aeschylus.  Among  the  Courts  of  the 
Roman  Empire,  we  must  think  of  Virgil,  Horace,  and  Ovid  as 
dependent  on  the  bounty  and  good  will  of  their  Caesar  and 
Maecenas. 

In  the  Middle  Ages,  there  are  the  monk  in  his  cell,  the 
troubadour  and  Minnes'dnger  at  the  Court  or  baron's  castle,  the 
vagrant  scholars  on  the  roads.  The  writer  is  either  a  clerk  or 
scholar,  or  he  is  a  singer,  an  entertainer,  a  minstrel.  But  even 


94  Theory  of  Literature 

kings  like  Wenceslaus  II  of  Bohemia  or  James  I  of  Scotland  are 
now  poets — amateurs,  dilettantes.  In  the  German  Meistersang, 
artisans  are  organized  in  poetic  guilds,  burghers  who  practice 
poetry  as  a  craft.  With  the  Renaissance  there  arose  a  compara- 
tively unattached  group  of  writers,  the  Humanists,  who  wan- 
dered sometimes  from  country  to  country  and  offered  their 
services  to  different  patrons.  Petrarch  is  the  first  modern  foeta 
laureatuSy  possessed  of  a  grandiose  conception  of  his  mission, 
while  Aretino  is  the  prototype  of  the  literary  journalist,  living 
on  blackmail,  feared  rather  than  honored  and  respected. 

In  the  large,  the  later  history  is  the  transition  from  support  by 
noble  or  ignoble  patrons  to  that  afforded  by  publishers  acting  as 
predictive  agents  of  the  reading  public.  The  system  of  aristo- 
cratic patronage  was  not,  however,  universal.  The  Church  and, 
soon,  the  theater  supported  special  types  of  literature.  In  Eng- 
land, the  patronage  system  apparently  began  to  fail  early  in  the 
eighteenth  century.  For  a  time,  literature,  deprived  of  its  earlier 
benefactors  and  not  yet  fully  supported  by  the  reading  public, 
was  economically  worse  off.  The  early  life  of  Dr.  Johnson  in  Grub 
Street  and  his  defiance  of  Lord  Chesterfield  symbolize  these 
changes.  Yet  a  generation  earlier,  Pope  was  able  to  amass  a  for- 
tune from  his  translation  of  Homer,  lavishly  subscribed  by  nobil- 
ity and  university  men. 

The  great  financial  rewards,  however,  came  only  in  the  nine- 
teenth century,  when  Scott  and  Byron  wielded  an  enormous 
influence  upon  taste  and  public  opinion.  Voltaire  and  Goethe  had 
vastly  increased  the  prestige  and  independence  of  the  writer  on 
the  Continent.  The  growth  of  the  reading  public,  the  founding 
of  the  great  reviews  like  the  Edinburgh  and  the  Quarterly ,  made 
literature  more  and  more  the  almost  independent  "institution" 
which  Prosper  de  Barante,  writing  in  1822,  claimed  it  to  have 
been  in  the  eighteenth  century.11 

As  Ashley  Thorndike  urged,  the  "outstanding  characteristic 
of  the  printed  matter  of  the  nineteenth  century  is  not  its  vul- 
garization, or  its  mediocrity,  but  rather  its  specialization.  This 
printed  matter  is  no  longer  addressed  to  a  uniform  or  homo- 
geneous public:  it  is  divided  up  among  many  publics  and  conse- 
quently divided  by  many  subjects,  interests,  and  purposes."  12  In 
Fiction  and  the  Reading  Public,  which  might  well  be  considered 


Literature  and  Society  95 

a  homily  on  Thorndike's  text,  Mrs.  Q.  D.  Leavis  13  points  out 
that  the  eighteenth-century  peasant  who  learned  to  read  had  to 
read  what  the  gentry  and  the  university  men  read ;  that  the  nine- 
teenth century  readers,  on  the  other  hand,  are  properly  spoken  of 
not  as  "the  public"  but  as  "publics."  Our  own  time  knows  still 
further  multiplications  in  publishing  lists  and  magazine  racks: 
there  exist  books  for  9-10-year  olds,  books  for  boys  of  high  school 
age,  books  for  those  who  "live  alone" j  trade  journals,  house  or- 
gans, Sunday  School  weeklies,  Westerns,  true-story  romances. 
Publishers,  magazines,  and  writers  all  specialize. 

Thus  a  study  of  the  economic  basis  of  literature  and  of  the 
social  status  of  the  writer  is  inextricably  bound  up  with  a  study  of 
the  audience  he  addresses  and  upon  which  he  is  dependent  finan- 
cially.14 Even  the  aristocratic  patron  is  an  audience  and  fre- 
quently an  exacting  audience,  requiring  not  only  personal  adula- 
tion but  also  conformity  to  the  conventions  of  his  class.  In  even 
earlier  society,  in  the  group  where  folk  poetry  flourishes,  the 
dependence  of  the  author  on  the  audience  is  even  greater:  his 
work  will  not  be  transmitted  unless  it  pleases  immediately.  The 
role  of  the  audience  in  the  theater  is,  at  least,  as  tangible.  There 
have  been  even  attempts  to  trace  the  changes  in  Shakespeare's 
periods  and  style  to  the  change  in  the  audience  between  the 
open-air  Globe,  on  the  South  Bank,  with  its  mixed  audience, 
and  Blackfriars,  a  closed  hall  frequented  by  the  higher  classes. 
It  becomes  harder  to  trace  the  specific  relation  between  author 
and  public  at  a  later  time  when  the  reading  public  rapidly  ex- 
pands, becomes  dispersed  and  heterogeneous,  and  when  the  rela- 
tionships of  author  and  public  grow  more  indirect  and  oblique. 
The  number  of  intermediaries  between  writers  and  the  public 
increases.  We  can  study  the  role  of  such  social  institutions  and 
associations  as  the  salon,  the  cafe,  the  club,  the  academy,  and  the 
university.  We  can  trace  the  history  of  reviews  and  magazines  as 
well  as  of  publishing  houses.  The  critic  becomes  an  important 
middleman ;  a  group  of  connoisseurs,  bibliophiles,  and  collectors 
may  support  certain  kinds  of  literature ;  and  the  associations  of 
literary  men  themselves  may  help  to  create  a  special  public  of 
writers  or  would-be  writers.  In  America  especially,  women,  who, 
according  to  Veblen  provide  vicarious  leisure  and  consumption 


^6  Theory  of  Literature 

of  the  arts  for  the  tired  businessman,  have  become  active  deter- 
minants of  literary  taste. 

Still,  the  old  patterns  have  not  been  completely  replaced.  All 
modern  governments  support  and  foster  literature  in  various 
degrees ;  and  patronage  means,  of  course,  control  and  super- 
vision.15 To  overrate  the  conscious  influence  of  the  totalitarian 
state  during  the  last  decades  would  be  difficult.  It  has  been  both 
negative — in  suppression,  book-burning,  censorship,  silencing, 
and  reprimanding,  and  positive — in  the  encouragement  of  "blood 
and  soil"  regionalism  or  Soviet  "socialist  realism."  The  fact  that 
the  state  has  been  unsuccessful  in  creating  a  literature  which, 
conforming  to  ideological  specifications,  is  still  great  art,  cannot 
refute  the  view  that  government  regulation  of  literature  is  effec- 
tive in  offering  the  possibilities  of  creation  to  those  who  identify 
themselves  voluntarily  or  reluctantly  with  the  official  prescrip- 
tions. Thus,  in  Soviet  Russia,  literature  is,  at  least,  in  theory 
again  becoming  a  communal  art  and  the  artist  has  again  been 
integrated  into  society. 

The  graph  of  a  book's  success,  survival,  and  recrudescence,  or 
a  writer's  reputation  and  fame  is,  mainly,  a  social  phenomenon. 
In  part  it  belongs,  of  course,  to  literary  "history,"  since  fame  and 
reputation  are  measured  by  the  actual  influence  of  a  writer  on 
other  writers,  his  general  power  of  transforming  and  changing 
the  literary  tradition.  In  part,  reputation  is  a  matter  of  critical 
response:  till  now,  it  has  been  traced  chiefly  on  the  basis  of  more 
or  less  formal  pronouncements  assumed  to  be  representative  of 
a  period's  "general  reader."  Hence,  while  the  whole  question  of 
the  "whirligig  of  taste"  is  "social,"  it  can  be  put  on  a  more  defi- 
nitely sociological  basis:  detailed  work  can  investigate  the  actual 
concordance  between  a  work  and  the  specific  public  which  has 
made  its  success ;  evidence  can  be  accumulated  on  editions,  copies 
sold. 

The  stratification  of  every  society  is  reflected  in  the  stratifica- 
tion of  its  taste.  While  the  norms  of  the  upper  classes  usually 
descend  to  the  lower,  the  movement  is  sometimes  reversed:  in- 
terest in  folklore  and  primitive  art  is  a  case  in  point.  There  is  no 
necessary  concurrence  between  political  and  social  advancement 
and  aesthetic:  leadership  in  literature  had  passed  to  the  bour- 
geoisie long  before  political  supremacy.  Social  stratification  may 


Literature  and  Society  97 

be  interfered  with  and  even  abrogated  in  questions  of  taste  by 
differences  of  age  and  sex,  by  specific  groups  and  associations. 
Fashion  is  also  an  important  phenomenon  in  modern  literature, 
for  in  a  competitive  fluid  society,  the  norms  of  the  upper  classes, 
quickly  imitated,  are  in  constant  need  of  replacement.  Certainly, 
the  present  rapid  changes  of  taste  seem  to  reflect  the  rapid  social 
changes  of  the  last  decades  and  the  general  loose  relation  between 
artist  and  audience. 

The  modern  writer's  isolation  from  society,  illustrated  by 
Grub  Street,  Bohemia,  Greenwich  Village,  the  American  ex- 
patriate, invites  sociological  study.  A  Russian  socialist,  Georgi 
Plekhanov,  believes  that  the  doctrine  of  "art  for  art's  sake"  de- 
velops when  artists  feel  a  "hopeless  contradiction  between  their 
aims  and  the  aims  of  the  society  to  which  they  belong.  Artists 
must  be  very  hostile  to  their  society  and  they  must  see  no  hope  of 
changing  it."  16  In  his  Sociology  of  Literary  Taste,  Levin  L. 
Schiicking  has  sketched  out  some  of  these  problems  j  elsewhere, 
he  has  studied  in  detail  the  role  of  the  family  and  women  as  an 
audience  in  the  eighteenth  century.17 

Though  much  evidence  has  been  accumulated,  well-substan- 
tiated conclusions  have  rarely  been  drawn  concerning  the  exact 
relations  between  the  production  of  literature  and  its  economic 
foundations,  or  even  concerning  the  exact  influence  of  the  public 
on  a  writer.  The  relationship  is  obviously  not  one  of  mere  de- 
pendence or  of  passive  compliance  with  the  prescriptions  of 
patron  or  public.  Writers  may  succeed  in  creating  their  own  spe- 
cial public ;  indeed,  as  Coleridge  knew,  every  new  writer  has  to 
create  the  taste  which  will  enjoy  him. 

The  writer  is  not  only  influenced  by  society:  he  influences  it. 
Art  not  merely  reproduces  Life  but  also  shapes  it.  People  may 
model  their  lives  upon  the  patterns  of  fictional  heroes  and 
heroines.  They  have  made  love,  committed  crimes  and  suicide 
according  to  the  book,  be  it  Goethe's  Sorrows  of  Werther  or 
Dumas'  Musketeers.  But  can  we  precisely  define  the  influence 
of  a  book  on  its  readers?  Will  it  ever  be  possible  to  describe  the 
influence  of  satire?  Did  Addison  really  change  the  manners  of 
his  society  or  Dickens  incite  reforms  of  debtors'  prisons,  boys' 
schools,  and  poorhouses?  1S  Was  Mrs.  Stowe  really  the  "little 
woman  who  made  the  great  war"?  Has  Gone  with  the  Wind 


98  Theory  of  Literature 

changed  Northern  readers'  attitudes  toward  Mrs.  Stowe's  war? 
How  have  Hemingway  and  Faulkner  affected  their  readers? 
How  great  was  the  influence  of  literature  on  the  rise  of  modern 
nationalism?  Certainly  the  historical  novels  of  Walter  Scott  in 
Scotland,  of  Henryk  Sienkiewicz  in  Poland,  of  Alois  Jirasek  in 
Czechoslovakia,  have  done  something  very  definite  to  increase 
national  pride  and  a  common  memory  of  historical  events. 

We  can  hypothesize — plausibly,  no  doubt — that  the  young 
are  more  directly  and  powerfully  influenced  by  their  reading 
than  the  old,  that  inexperienced  readers  take  literature  more 
naively  as  transcript  rather  than  interpretation  of  life,  that  those 
whose  books  are  few  take  them  in  more  utter  seriousness  than  do 
wide  and  professional  readers.  Can  we  advance  beyond  such 
conjecture?  Can  we  make  use  of  questionnaires  and  any  other 
mode  of  sociological  enquiry?  No  exact  objectivity  is  obtainable, 
for  the  attempt  at  case  histories  will  depend  upon  the  memories 
and  the  analytic  powers  of  the  interrogated,  and  their  testimonies 
will  need  codification  and  evaluation  by  a  fallible  mind.  But  the 
question,  "How  does  literature  affect  its  audience?"  is  an  em- 
pirical one,  to  be  answered,  if  at  all,  by  the  appeal  to  experience; 
and,  since  we  are  thinking  of  literature  in  the  broadest  sense,  and 
society  in  the  broadest,  the  appeal  must  be  made  to  the  experi- 
ence not  of  the  connoisseur  alone  but  to  that  of  the  human  race. 
We  have  scarcely  begun  to  study  such  questions.19 

Much  the  most  common  approach  to  the  relations  of  literature 
and  society  is  the  study  of  works  of  literature  as  social  documents, 
as  assumed  pictures  of  social  reality.  Nor  can  it  be  doubted  that 
some  kind  of  social  picture  can  be  abstracted  from  literature. 
Indeed,  this  has  been  one  of  the  earliest  uses  to  which  literature 
has  been  put  by  systematic  students.  Thomas  Warton,  the  first 
real  historian  of  English  poetry,  argued  that  literature  has  the 
"peculiar  merit  of  faithfully  recording  the  features  of  the  times, 
and  of  preserving  the  most  picturesque  and  expressive  represen- 
tation of  manners"  j20  and  to  him  and  many  of  his  antiquarian 
successors,  literature  was  primarily  a  treasury  of  costumes  and 
customs,  a  source  book  for  the  history  of  civilization,  especially 
of  chivalry  and  its  decline.  As  for  modern  readers,  many  of  them 
derive  their  chief  impressions  of  foreign  societies  from  the  read- 


Literature  and  Society  99 

ing  of  novels,  from  Sinclair  Lewis  and  Galsworthy,  from  Balzac 
and  Turgenev. 

Used  as  a  social  document,  literature  can  be  made  to  yield 
the  outlines  of  social  history.  Chaucer  and  Langland  preserve 
two  views  of  fourteenth-century  society.  The  Prologue  to  the 
Canterbury  Tales  was  early  seen  to  offer  an  almost  complete 
survey  of  social  types.  Shakespeare,  in  the  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor,  Ben  Jonson  in  several  plays,  and  Thomas  Deloney 
seem  to  tell  us  something  about  the  Elizabethan  middle  class. 
Addison,  Fielding,  and  Smollett  depict  the  new  bourgeoisie  of 
the  eighteenth  century  5  Jane  Austen,  the  country  gentry  and 
country  parsons  early  in  the  nineteenth  century ;  and  Trollope, 
Thackeray,  and  Dickens,  the  Victorian  world.  At  the  turn  of  the 
century,  Galsworthy  shows  us  the  English  upper  middle  classes ; 
Wells,  the  lower  middle  classes ;  Bennett,  the  provincial  towns. 

A  similar  series  of  social  pictures  could  be  assembled  for 
American  life  from  the  novels  of  Mrs.  Stowe  and  Howells  to 
those  of  Farrell  and  Steinbeck.  The  life  of  post-Restoration 
Paris  and  France  seems  preserved  in  the  hundreds  of  characters 
moving  through  the  pages  of  Balzac's  Human  Comedy;  and 
Proust  traced  in  endless  detail  the  social  stratifications  of  the  de- 
caying French  aristocracy.  The  Russia  of  the  nineteenth-century 
landowners  appears  in  the  novels  of  Turgenev  and  Tolstoy  5  we 
have  glimpses  of  the  merchant  and  the  intellectual  in  Chekhov's 
stories  and  plays  and  of  collectivized  farmers  in  Sholokhov. 

Examples  could  be  multiplied  indefinitely.  One  can  assemble 
and  exposit  the  "world"  of  each,  the  part  each  gives  to  love 
and  marriage,  to  business,  to  the  professions,  its  delineation  of 
clergymen,  whether  stupid  or  clever,  saintly  or  hypocritical  j  or 
one  can  specialize  upon  Jane  Austen's  naval  men,  Proust's  arri- 
vistes y  Howells'  married  women.  This  kind  of  specialization 
will  offer  us  monographs  on  the  "Relation  between  Landlord 
and  Tenant  in  Nineteenth-Century  American  Fiction,"  "The 
Sailor  in  English  Fiction  and  Drama,"  or  "Irish  Americans  in 
Twentieth-Century  Fiction." 

But  such  studies  seem  of  little  value  so  long  as  they  take  it  for 
granted  that  literature  is  simply  a  mirror  of  life,  a  reproduction, 
and  thus,  obviously,  a  social  document.  Such  studies  make  sense 
only  if  we  know  the  artistic  method  of  the  novelist  studied,  can 


1 00  Theory  of  Literature 

say — not  merely  in  general  terms,  but  concretely — in  what  rela- 
tion the  picture  stands  to  the  social  reality.  Is  it  realistic  by  inten- 
tion? Or  is  it,  at  certain  points,  satire,  caricature,  or  romantic 
idealization?  In  an  admirably  clearheaded  study  of  Aristocracy 
and  the  Middle  Classes  in  Germany ,  Kohn-Bramstedt  rightly 
cautions  us:  "only  a  person  who  has  a  knowledge  of  the  structure 
of  a  society  from  other  sources  than  purely  literary  ones  is  able 
to  find  out  if,  and  how  far,  certain  social  types  and  their  behavior 
are  reproduced  in  the  novel.  .  .  .  What  is  pure  fancy,  what 
realistic  observation,  and  what  only  an  expression  of  the  desires 
of  the  author  must  be  separated  in  each  case  in  a  subtle  man- 
ner." 21  Using  Max  Weber's  conception  of  ideal  "social  types," 
the  same  scholar  studies  such  social  phenomena  as  class  hatred, 
the  behavior  of  the  parvenu,  snobbery,  and  the  attitude  toward 
the  Jews;  and  he  argues  that  such  phenomena  are  not  so  much 
objective  facts  and  behavior  patterns  as  they  are  complex  atti- 
tudes, thus  far  much  better  illustrated  in  fiction  than  elsewhere. 
Students  of  social  attitudes  and  aspirations  can  use  literary  mate- 
rial, if  they  know  how  to  interpret  it  properly.  Indeed,  for  older 
periods,  they  will  be  forced  to  use  literary  or  at  least  semiliterary 
material  for  want  of  evidence  from  the  sociologists  of  the  time: 
writers  on  politics,  economics,  and  general  public  questions. 

Heroes  and  heroines  of  fiction,  villains  and  adventuresses,  af- 
ford interesting  indications  of  such  social  attitudes.22  Such  studies 
constantly  lead  into  the  history  of  ethical  and  religious  ideas.  We 
know  the  medieval  status  of  the  traitor  and  the  medieval  attitude 
towards  usury,  which,  lingering  on  into  the  Renaissance,  gives 
us  Shylock  and,  later,  Moliere's  L'Avare.  To  which  "deadly  sin" 
have  later  centuries  chiefly  assigned  the  villain;  and  is  his  vil- 
lainy conceived  of  in  terms  of  personal  or  social  morality?  Is  he, 
for  example,  artist  at  rape  or  embezzler  of  widows'  bonds? 

The  classic  case  is  that  of  Restoration  English  comedy.  Was  it 
simply  a  realm  of  cuckoldom,  a  fairyland  of  adulteries  and  mock 
marriages  as  Lamb  believed?  Or  was  it,  as  Macaulay  would  have 
us  believe,  a  faithful  picture  of  decadent,  frivolous,  and  brutal 
aristocracy?  23  Or  should  we  not  rather,  rejecting  both  alterna- 
tives, see  what  particular  social  group  created  this  art  for  what 
audience?  And  should  we  not  see  whether  it  was  a  naturalistic  or 
a  stylized  art?  Should  we  not  be  mindful  of  satire  and  irony, 


Literature  and  Society  1 01 

self-ridicule  and  fantasy?  Like  all  literature,  these  plays  are  not 
simply  documents ;  they  are  plays  with  stock  figures,  stock  situa- 
tions, with  stage  marriages  and  stage  conditions  of  marriage 
settlements.  E.  E.  Stoll  concludes  his  many  arguments  on  these 
matters:  "Evidently  this  is  not  a  'real  society,'  not  a  faithful 
picture  even  of  the  'fashionable  life':  evidently  it  is  not  England, 
even  'under  the  Stuarts,'  whether  since  or  before  the  Revolution 
or  the  Great  Rebellion."  24  Still,  the  salutary  emphasis  upon  con- 
vention and  tradition  to  be  found  in  writing  like  Stoll's  cannot 
completely  discharge  the  relations  between  literature  and  society. 
Even  the  most  abstruse  allegory,  the  most  unreal  pastoral,  the 
most  outrageous  farce  can,  properly  interrogated,  tell  us  some- 
thing of  the  society  of  a  time. 

Literature  occurs  only  in  a  social  context,  as  part  of  a  culture, 
in  a  milieu.  Taine's  famous  triad  of  race,  milieu,  and  moment  has, 
in  practice,  led  to  an  exclusive  study  of  the  milieu.  Race  is  an  un- 
known fixed  integral  with  which  Taine  operates  very  loosely,  and 
moment  can  be  dissolved  into  the  concept  of  milieu.  A  difference 
of  time  means  simply  a  different  setting,  but  the  actual  question 
of  analysis  arises  only  if  we  try  to  break  up  the  term  "milieu." 
The  most  immediate  setting  of  a  work  of  literature,  we  shall 
then  recognize,  is  its  linguistic  and  literary  tradition,  and  this  tra- 
dition in  turn  is  encompassed  by  a  general  cultural  "climate." 
Only  far  less  directly  can  literature  be  connected  with  concrete 
economic  political  and  social  situations.  Of  course  there  are  inter- 
relationships between  all  spheres  of  human  activities.  Eventually 
we  can  establish  some  connection  between  the  modes  of  produc- 
tion and  literature,  since  an  economic  system  usually  implies 
some  system  of  power  and  must  control  the  forms  of  family  life. 
And  the  family  plays  an  important  role  in  education,  in  the  con- 
cepts of  sexuality  and  love,  in  the  whole  convention  and  tradition 
of  human  sentiment.  Thus  it  is  possible  to  link  even  lyric  poetry 
with  love  conventions,  religious  preconceptions,  and  conceptions 
of  nature.  But  these  relationships  may  be  devious  and  oblique. 

It  seems  impossible,  however,  to  accept  a  view  constituting 
any  particular  human  activity  the  "starter"  of  all  the  others, 
whether  it  be  the  theory  of  Taine,  who  reduces  all  creativity  to 
a  mysterious  biological  factor,  "race,"  or  that  of  Hegel  and  the 
Hegelians,  who  consider  "spirit"  the  only  moving  force  in  his- 


102  Theory  of  Literature 

tory,  or  that  of  the  Marxists,  who  derive  everything  from  the 
mode  of  production.  No  radical  technological  changes  took 
place  in  the  many  centuries  between  the  early  Middle  Ages 
and  the  rise  of  Capitalism,  while  cultural  life,  and  literature  in 
particular,  underwent  most  profound  transformations.  Nor  does 
literature  always  show,  at  least  immediately,  much  awareness  of 
an  epoch's  technological  changes:  the  Industrial  Revolution 
penetrated  English  novels  only  in  the  forties  of  the  nineteenth 
century  (with  Mrs.  Gaskell,  Kingsley,  and  Charlotte  Bronte), 
long  after  its  symptoms  were  plainly  visible  to  economists  and 
social  thinkers. 

The  social  situation,  one  should  admit,  seems  to  determine 
the  possibility  of  the  realization  of  certain  aesthetic  values,  but 
not  the  values  themselves.  We  can  determine  in  general  outlines 
what  art  forms  are  possible  in  a  given  society  and  which  are  im- 
possible, but  it  is  not  possible  to  predict  that  these  art  forms  will 
actually  come  into  existence.  Many  Marxists — and  not  Marxists 
only — attempt  far  too  crude  short  cuts  from  economics  to  litera- 
ture. For  example,  John  Maynard  Keynes,  not  an  unliterary 
person,  has  ascribed  the  existence  of  Shakespeare  to  the  fact  that 
"we  were  just  in  a  financial  position  to  afford  Shakespeare  at  the 
moment  when  he  presented  himself.  Great  writers  flourished  in 
the  atmosphere  of  buoyancy,  exhilaration,  and  the  freedom  of 
economic  cares  felt  by  the  governing  class,  which  is  engendered 
by  profit  inflations."  25  But  profit  inflations  did  not  elicit  great 
poets  elsewhere — for  instance,  during  the  boom  of  the  twenties 
in  the  United  States — nor  is  this  view  of  the  optimistic  Shake- 
speare quite  beyond  dispute.  No  more  helpful  is  the  opposite 
formula,  devised  by  a  Russian  Marxist:  "Shakespeare's  tragic 
outlook  on  the  world  was  consequential  upon  his  being  the 
dramatic  expression  of  the  feudal  aristocracy,  which  in  Eliza- 
beth's day  had  lost  their  former  dominant  position."  26  Such  con- 
tradictory judgments,  attached  to  vague  categories  like  optimism 
and  pessimism,  fail  to  deal  concretely  with  either  the  ascertain- 
able social  content  of  Shakespeare's  plays,  his  professed  opinions 
on  political  questions  (obvious  from  the  chronicle  plays),  or  his 
social  status  as  a  writer. 

One  must  be  careful,  however,  not  to  dismiss  the  economic 
approach  to  literature  by  means  of  such  quotations.  Marx  him- 


Literature  and  Society  1 03 

self,  though  on  occasion  he  made  some  fanciful  judgments,  in 
general  acutely  perceived  the  obliqueness  of  the  relationship 
between  literature  and  society.  In  the  Critique  of  Political  Econ- 
omy, he  admits  that  "certain  periods  of  highest  development  of 
art  stand  in  no  direct  connection  with  the  general  development 
of  society,  nor  with  the  material  basis  and  the  skeleton  structure 
of  its  organization.  Witness  the  example  of  the  Greeks  as  com- 
pared with  the  modern  nations  or  even  Shakespeare."  2T  He  also 
understood  that  the  modern  division  of  labor  leads  to  a  definite 
contradiction  between  the  three  factors  ("moments"  in  his  Hegel- 
ian terminology)  of  the  social  process — "productive  forces," 
"social  relations,"  and  "consciousness."  He  expected,  in  a  manner 
which  scarcely  seems  to  avoid  the  Utopian,  that  in  the  future 
classless  society  these  divisions  of  labor  would  again  disappear, 
that  the  artist  would  again  be  integrated  into  society.  He  thought 
it  possible  that  everybody  could  be  an  excellent,  even  an  original, 
painter.  "In  a  communist  society  there  are  no  painters,  but  at 
most  men  who,  among  other  things,  also  paint."  2S 

The  "vulgar  Marxist"  tells  us  that  this  or  that  writer  was  a 
bourgeois  who  voiced  reactionary  or  progressive  opinions  about 
Church  and  State.  There  is  a  curious  contradiction  between  this 
avowed  determinism  which  assumes  that  "consciousness"  must 
follow  "existence,"  that  a  bourgeois  cannot  help  being  one,  and 
the  usual  ethical  judgment  which  condemns  him  for  these  very 
opinions.  In  Russia,  one  notes,  writers  of  bourgeois  origin  who 
have  joined  the  proletariat  have  constantly  been  subjected  to 
suspicions  of  their  sincerity,  and  every  artistic  or  civic  failing  has 
been  ascribed  to  their  class  origin.  Yet  if  progress,  in  the  Marxist 
sense,  leads  directly  from  feudalism  via  bourgeois  capitalism  to 
the  "dictatorship  of  the  proletariat,"  it  would  be  logical  and  con- 
sistent for  a  Marxist  to  praise  the  "progressives"  at  any  time.  He 
should  praise  the  bourgeois  when,  in  the  early  stages  of  capi- 
talism, he  fought  the  surviving  feudalism.  But  frequently  Marx- 
ists criticize  writers  from  a  twentieth-century  point  of  view,  or, 
like  Smirnov  and  Grib,  Marxists  very  critical  of  "vulgar  sociol- 
ogy," rescue  the  bourgeois  writer  by  a  recognition  of  his  universal 
humanity.  Thus  Smirnov  comes  to  the  conclusion  that  Shake- 
speare was  the  "humanist  ideologist  of  the  bourgeoisie,  the  ex- 
ponent of  the  program  advanced  by  them  when,  in  the  name  of 


1 04  Theory  of  Literature 

humanity,  they  first  challenged  the  feudal  order."  29  But  the  con- 
cept of  humanism,  of  the  universality  of  art,  surrenders  the  cen- 
tral doctrine  of  Marxism,  which  is  essentially  relativistic. 

Marxist  criticism  is  at  its  best  when  it  exposes  the  implied,  or 
latent,  social  implications  of  a  writer's  work.  In  this  respect  it  is 
a  technique  of  interpretation  parallel  to  those  founded  upon  the 
insights  of  Freud,  or  of  Nietzsche,  or  of  Pareto,  or  to  the 
Scheler-Mannheim  "sociology  of  knowledge."  All  these  intel- 
lectuals are  suspicious  of  the  intellect,  the  professed  doctrine,  the 
mere  statement.  The  central  distinction  is  that  Nietzsche's  and 
Freud's  methods  are  psychological,  while  Pareto's  analysis  of 
"residues"  and  "derivatives"  and  the  Scheler-Mannheim  tech- 
nique of  the  analysis  of  "ideology"  are  sociological. 

The  "sociology  of  knowledge,"  as  illustrated  in  the  writings  of 
Max  Scheler,  Max  Weber,  and  Karl  Mannheim,  has  been  worked 
out  in  detail  and  has  some  definite  advantages  over  its  rivals.30 
It  not  only  draws  attention  to  the  presuppositions  and  implica- 
tions of  a  given  ideological  position,  but  it  also  stresses  the  hidden 
assumptions  and  biases  of  the  investigator  himself.  It  is  thus  self- 
critical  and  self-conscious,  even  to  the  extreme  of  morbidity.  It 
is  also  less  prone  than  either  Marxism  or  psychoanalysis  to  isolate 
one  single  factor  as  the  sole  determinant  of  change.  Whatever 
their  failure  at  isolating  the  religious  factor,  the  studies  of  Max 
Weber  in  the  sociology  of  religion  are  valuable  for  their  attempt 
to  describe  the  influence  of  ideological  factors  on  economic  be- 
havior and  institutions— for  earlier  emphasis  had  been  entirely 
upon  the  economic  influence  on  ideology.31  A  similar  investiga- 
tion of  the  influences  of  literature  on  social  change  would  be  very 
welcome,  though  it  would  run  into  analogous  difficulties.  It 
seems  as  hard  to  isolate  the  strictly  literary  factor  as  the  religious 
factor  and  to  answer  the  question  whether  the  influence  is  due  to 
the  particular  factor  itself,  or  to  other  forces  for  which  the  factor 
is  a  mere  "shrine"  or  "channel."  82 

The  "sociology  of  knowledge"  suffers,  however,  from  its  exces- 
sive historicism;  it  has  come  to  ultimately  skeptical  conclusions 
despite  its  thesis  that  "objectivity"  can  be  achieved  by  synthe- 
sizing, and  thus  neutralizing,  the  conflicting  perspectives.  It  suf- 
fers also,  in  application  to  literature,  from  its  inability  to  connect 
"content"  with  "form."  Like  Marxism,  preoccupied  with  an  ir- 


Literature  and  Society  105 

rationalistic  explanation,  it  is  unable  to  provide  a  rational  founda- 
tion for  aesthetics  and  hence  criticism  and  evaluation.  This  is,  of 
course,  true  of  all  extrinsic  approaches  to  literature.  No  causal 
study  can  do  theoretical  justice  to  the  analysis,  description,  and 
evaluation  of  a  literary  work. 

But  the  problem  of  "literature  and  society"  can  obviously  be 
put  in  different  terms,  those  of  symbolic  or  meaningful  rela- 
tions: of  consistency,  harmony,  coherence,  congruence,  struc- 
tural identity,  stylistic  analogy,  or  with  whatever  term  we  want 
to  designate  the  integration  of  a  culture  and  the  interrelationship 
among  the  different  activities  of  men.  Sorokin,  who  has  analyzed 
the  various  possibilities  clearly,33  has  concluded  that  the  degree 
of  integration  varies  from  society  to  society. 

Marxism  never  answers  the  question  of  the  degree  of  de- 
pendence of  literature  on  society.  Hence  many  of  the  basic  prob- 
lems have  scarcely  begun  to  be  studied.  Occasionally,  for  ex- 
ample, one  sees  arguments  for  the  social  determination  of  genres, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  bourgeois  origin  of  the  novel,  or  even  the 
details  of  their  attitudes  and  forms,  as  in  E.  B.  Burgum's  not 
very  convincing  view  that  tragicomedy  "results  from  the  impact 
of  middle  class  seriousness  upon  aristocratic  frivolity."  34  Are 
there  definite  social  determinants  of  such  a  broad  literary  style  as 
Romanticism,  which,  though  associated  with  the  bourgeoisie,  was 
anti-bourgeois  in  its  ideology,  at  least  in  Germany,  from  its  very 
beginning?  35  Though  some  kind  of  dependence  of  literary  ide- 
ologies and  themes  on  social  circumstances  seems  obvious,  the 
social  origins  of  forms  and  styles,  genres  and  actual  literary 
norms  have  rarely  been  established.36 

It  has  been  attempted  most  concretely  in  studies  of  the  social 
origins  of  literature:  in  Bucher's  one-sided  theory  of  the  rise  of 
poetry  from  labor  rhythms ;  in  the  many  studies  by  anthropolo- 
gists of  the  magic  role  of  early  art;  in  George  Thomson's  very 
learned  attempt  to  bring  Greek  tragedy  into  concrete  relations 
with  cult  and  rituals  and  with  a  definite  democratic  social  revolu- 
tion at  the  time  of  Aeschylus;  in  Christopher  Caudwell's  some- 
what naive  attempt  to  study  the  sources  of  poetry  in  tribal  emo- 
tions and  in  the  bourgeois  "illusion"  of  individual  freedom.37 

Only  if  the  social  determination  of  forms  could  be  shown  con- 
clusively could  the  question  be  raised  whether  social  attitudes 


1 06  Theory  of  Literature 

cannot  become  "constitutive"  and  enter  a  work  of  art  as  effective 
parts  of  its  artistic  value.  One  can  argue  that  "social  truth,"  while 
not,  as  such,  an  artistic  value,  corroborates  such  artistic  values  as 
complexity  and  coherence.  But  it  need  not  be  so.  There  is  great 
literature  which  has  little  or  no  social  relevance  j  social  literature 
is  only  one  kind  of  literature  and  is  not  central  in  the  theory  of 
literature  unless  one  holds  the  view  that  literature  is  primarily 
an  "imitation"  of  life  as  it  is  and  of  social  life  in  particular.  But 
literature  is  no  substitute  for  sociology  or  politics.  It  has  its  own 
justification  and  aim. 


CHAPTER  X 

Literature  and  Ideas 

The  relation  between  literature  and  ideas  can  be  conceived 
in  very  diverse  ways.  Frequently  literature  is  thought  of  as  a 
form  of  philosophy,  as  "ideas"  wrapped  in  form;  and  it  is  ana- 
lyzed to  yield  "leading  ideas."  Students  are  encouraged  to  sum- 
marize and  to  abstract  works  of  art  in  terms  of  such  generaliza- 
tions. Much  older  scholarship  has  pushed  this  method  to  absurd 
extremes  j  one  thinks  especially  of  such  German  Shakespeare 
scholars  as  Ulrici,  who  formulated  the  central  idea  of  the  Mer- 
chant of  Venice  as  "summum  jus  summa  injuria."  x  Though  to- 
day most  scholars  have  become  wary  of  such  overintellectualiza- 
tion,  there  are  still  discussions  which  treat  literature  as  though 
it  were  a  philosophical  tract. 

The  opposite  view  is  to  deny  any  philosophical  relevance  to 
literature.  In  a  lecture  on  Philosophy  and  Poetry ,  George  Boas 
has  stated  this  view  quite  bluntly:  "Ideas  in  poetry  are  usually 
stale  and  false,  and  no  one  older  than  sixteen  would  find  it  worth 
his  while  to  read  poetry  merely  for  what  it  says."  2  According  to 
T.  S.  Eliot,  neither  "Shakespeare  nor  Dante  did  any  real  think- 
ing." 3  One  may  grant  Boas  that  the  intellectual  content  of  most 
poetry  (and  he  seems  to  be  thinking  chiefly  of  lyrical  poetry)  is 
usually  much  exaggerated.  If  we  analyze  many  famous  poems 
admired  for  their  philosophy,  we  frequently  discover  mere  com- 
monplaces concerning  man's  mortality  or  the  uncertainty  of  fate. 
The  oracular  sayings  of  Victorian  poets  such  as  Browning,  which 
have  struck  many  readers  as  revelatory,  often  turn  out  mere 
portable  versions  of  primeval  truths.4  Even  if  we  seem  to  be  able 
to  carry  away  some  general  proposition  such  as  Keats'  "Beauty 
is  Truth,  Truth  Beauty,"  we  are  left  to  make  what  we  can  of 
these  conversible  propositions,  unless  we  see  them  as  the  con- 
clusion of  a  poem  which  has  to  do  with  illustrating  the  per- 
manence of  art  and  the  impermanence  of  human  emotions  and 

107 


io8  Theory  oj  Literature 

natural  beauty.  The  reduction  of  a  work  of  art  to  a  doctrinal 
statement — or,  even  worse,  the  isolation  of  passages — is  dis- 
astrous to  understanding  the  uniqueness  of  a  work:  it  disinte- 
grates its  structure  and  imposes  alien  criteria  of  value. 

To  be  sure,  literature  can  be  treated  as  a  document  in  the  his- 
tory of  ideas  and  philosophy,  for  literary  history  parallels  and 
reflects  intellectual  history.  Frequently  either  explicit  statements 
or  allusions  show  the  allegiance  of  a  poet  to  a  specific  philosophy, 
or  establish  that  he  has  had  some  direct  acquaintance  with  phi- 
losophies once  well-known  or  at  least  that  he  is  aware  of  their 
general  assumptions. 

In  recent  decades,  a  whole  group  of  American  scholars  have 
devoted  themselves  to  a  study  of  these  questions,  calling  their 
method  the  "History  of  Ideas,"  a  somewhat  misleading  term  for 
the  specific,  limited  method  developed  and  advocated  by  A.  O. 
Lovejoy.5  Lovejoy  has  brilliantly  demonstrated  its  effectiveness 
in  a  book  on  The  Great  Chain  oj  Being  which  traces  the  idea  of 
a  scale  of  nature  from  Plato  to  Schelling,  pursuing  the  idea 
through  all  modes  of  thought:  philosophy  in  the  strict  sense, 
scientific  thought,  theology,  and — specifically — literature.  The 
method  differs  from  history  of  philosophy  in  two  respects.  Love- 
joy limits  the  study  of  the  history  of  philosophy  to  the  great 
thinkers  and  conceives  of  his  own  "history  of  ideas"  as  inclusive 
also  of  small  thinkers,  including  the  poets,  conceived  as  deriva- 
tive from  the  thinkers.  He  further  distinguishes  that  the  history 
of  philosophy  studies  the  great  systems,  while  the  history  of  ideas 
traces  unit  ideas,  i.e.,  breaks  up  the  systems  of  philosophers  into 
their  component  parts,  studying  individual  motifs. 

The  particular  deliminations  made  by  Lovejoy,  while  per- 
fectly defensible  as  the  basis  of  an  individual  study  like  The 
Great  Chain  of  Being,  fail  to  be  generally  convincing.  The  his- 
tory of  philosophical  concepts  belongs  properly  enough  to  the 
history  of  philosophy  and  was  so  included  by  Hegel  and  Windel- 
band  long  ago.  Of  course  it  is  as  one-sided  to  study  unit  ideas  to 
the  exclusion  of  systems  as  it  would  be  to  restrict  literary  history 
to  the  history  of  versification  or  diction  or  imagery,  neglecting 
the  study  of  those  coherent  wholes,  specific  works  of  art.  "His- 
tory of  Ideas"  is  simply  a  specific  approach  to  the  general  history 
of  thought,  using  literature  only  as  document  and  illustration. 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 09 

This  assumption  is  obvious  when  Lovejoy  calls  ideas  in  seri- 
ous reflective  literature  in  great  part  "philosophical  ideas  in 
dilution."  6 

None  the  less,  the  "History  of  Ideas"  must  be  welcomed  by 
literary  students,  and  not  merely  for  the  indirect  light  a  better 
comprehension  of  philosophical  history  must  throw  on  literature. 
Lovejoy 's  method  reacts  against  the  excessive  intellectualism  of 
most  historians  of  thought.  It  recognizes  that  thought,  or  at  least 
the  choice  between  systems  of  thought,  is  frequently  determined 
by  assumptions,  by  more  or  less  unconscious  mental  habits ;  that 
people  are  influenced  in  their  adoption  of  ideas  by  their  sus- 
ceptibility to  diverse  kinds  of  metaphysical  pathos ;  and  that  ideas 
are  frequently  key  words,  pious  phrases,  which  must  be  studied 
semantically.  Leo  Spitzer,  who  has  disapproved  of  many  fea- 
tures of  Lovejoy's  "History  of  Ideas,"  has  himself  given  excel- 
lent examples  of  how  to  combine  intellectual  and  semantic  his- 
tory in  studies  tracing  such  words  as  "milieu,"  "ambiance,"  and 
"Stimmung"  through  all  their  associations  and  ramifications  in 
history.7  Finally,  Lovejoy's  scheme  has  one  most  attractive  fea- 
ture. It  explicitly  ignores  the  division  of  literary  and  historical 
studies  by  nationalities  and  languages. 

The  value  for  the  exegesis  of  a  poetic  text  of  a  knowledge  of 
the  history  of  philosophy  and  of  general  thought  can  scarcely  be 
overrated.  Besides,  literary  history — especially  when  occupied 
with  such  writers  as  Pascal,  Emerson,  Nietzsche — has  constantly 
to  treat  problems  of  intellectual  history.  Indeed,  the  history  of 
criticism  is  simply  a  part  of  the  history  of  aesthetic  thought — at 
least,  if  it  is  treated  in  itself,  without  reference  to  the  creative 
work  contemporary  with  it. 

Without  doubt,  English  literature  can  be  shown  to  reflect  the 
history  of  philosophy.  Renaissance  Platonism  pervades  Eliza- 
bethan poetry:  Spenser  wrote  four  hymns  describing  the  Neo- 
Platonic  ascent  from  matter  to  Heavenly  Beauty,  and  in  the 
Faerie  Queene,  decides  the  dispute  between  Mutability  and  Na- 
ture in  favor  of  an  eternal,  unchangeable  order.  In  Marlowe  we 
hear  reverberations  of  the  contemporary  Italianate  atheism  and 
skepticism.  Even  in  Shakespeare,  there  are  many  traces  of 
Renaissance  Platonism,  e.g.,  in  the  famous  speech  of  Ulysses  in 
Troilus,  together  with  echoes   of   Montaigne  and  tags   from 


no  Theory  of  Literature 

Stoicism.  We  can  trace  Donne's  study  of  the  Fathers  and  the 
Schoolmen  as  well  as  the  impact  of  the  new  science  upon  his 
sensibility.  Milton  himself  evolved  a  highly  personal  theology 
and  cosmogony,  which,  according  to  one  interpretation,  combine 
materialistic  and  Platonic  elements  and  draw  both  on  Oriental 
thought  and  on  the  doctrines  of  such  contemporary  sects  as  the 
mortalists. 

Dryden  has  written  philosophical  poetry  which  expounds  the 
theological  and  political  controversies  of  the  time  and  certainly 
demonstrates  his  awareness  of  fideism,  modern  science,  skepti- 
cism, and  deism.  Thomson  can  be  described  as  the  expounder  of 
a  system  combining  Newtonianism  and  Shaftesbury.  Pope's 
Essay  on  Man  abounds  in  philosophical  echoes;  and  Gray  versi- 
fied Locke's  theories  in  Latin  hexameters.  Laurence  Sterne  was 
an  enthusiastic  admirer  of  Locke  and  used  his  ideas  of  association 
and  duration,  often  for  comic  purposes,  throughout  Tristram- 
Shandy. 

Among  the  great  Romantic  poets,  Coleridge  was  himself  a 
technical  philosopher  of  great  ambition  and  some  standing.  He 
was  a  detailed  student  of  Kant  and  Schelling  and  expounded 
their  views,  even  though  not  always  critically.  Through  Cole- 
ridge, whose  own  poetry  seems  little  affected  by  his  systematic 
philosophy,  many  German  or  generally  Neo-Platonic  ideas  en- 
tered or  re-entered  the  tradition  of  English  poetry.  There  are 
traces  of  Kant  in  Wordsworth,  and  it  has  been  shown  that  he  was 
a  close  student  of  the  psychologist  Hartley.  Shelley  at  first  was 
deeply  influenced  by  the  French  eighteenth-century  philosofihes 
and  their  English  disciple  Godwin,  but  later  assimilated  ideas 
derived  from  Spinoza,  Berkeley,  and  Plato. 

The  Victorian  controversy  between  science  and  religion  finds 
well-known  expression  in  Tennyson  and  Browning.  Swinburne 
and  Hardy  reflect  the  pessimistic  atheism  of  the  time,  while 
Hopkins  shows  the  effect  of  his  study  of  Duns  Scotus.  George 
Eliot  translated  Feuerbach  and  Strauss,  Shaw  read  Samuel  But- 
ler and  Nietzsche.  Most  recent  writers  have  read  Freud  or  read 
about  him.  Joyce  knew  not  only  Freud  and  Jung  but  Vico,  Gior- 
dano Bruno,  and,  of  course,  Thomas  Aquinas;  Yeats  was  deeply 
immersed  in  theosophy,  mysticism,  and  even  Berkeley. 

In  other  literatures,  studies  of  such  problems  have  been  pos- 


Literature  and  Ideas  ill 

sibly  even  more  abundant.  Numberless  are  the  interpretations  of 
Dante's  theology.  In  France,  M.  Gilson  has  applied  his  learning 
in  medieval  philosophy  to  the  exegesis  of  passages  in  Rabelais 
and  Pascal.8  Paul  Hazard  has  written  skillfully  on  the  Crisis  of 
European  Consciousness  toward  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, tracing  the  spread  of  the  ideas  of  the  Enlightenment  and, 
in  a  new  work,  their  establishment  throughout  Europe.9  In  Ger- 
many, studies  abound  on  Schiller's  Kantianism,  Goethe's  con- 
tacts with  Plotinus  and  Spinoza,  Kleist's  with  Kant,  Hebbel's 
with  Hegel,  and  such  topics.  In  Germany,  indeed,  the  collabora- 
tion between  philosophy  and  literature  was  frequently  extremely 
close,  especially  during  the  Romantic  period,  when  Fichte, 
Schelling,  and  Hegel  lived  with  the  poets  and  when  even  as 
pure  a  poet  as  Holderlin  thought  it  incumbent  upon  him  to 
speculate  systematically  on  questions  of  epistemology  and  meta- 
physics. In  Russia,  Dostoevsky  and  Tolstoy  have  been  treated 
frequently  simply  as  philosophers  and  religious  thinkers,  and 
even  Pushkin  has  been  made  to  yield  an  elusive  wisdom.10  At 
the  time  of  the  Symbolist  movement,  a  whole  school  of  "meta- 
physical critics"  arose  in  Russia,  interpreting  literature  in  terms 
of  their  own  philosophical  positions.  Rozanov,  Merezhkovsky, 
Shestov,  Berdayev,  Volynsky,  and  Vyacheslav  Ivanov  all  wrote 
on  Dostoevsky  or  around  him,11  sometimes  using  him  merely  as 
a  text  for  preaching  their  own  doctrine,  sometimes  reducing  him 
to  a  system  and,  rarely,  thinking  of  him  as  a  tragic  novelist. 

But  at  the  end,  or  better  at  the  beginning,  of  such  studies 
some  questions  must  be  raised  which  are  not  always  answered 
clearly.  How  far  do  mere  echoes  of  philosophers'  thought  in  the 
poet's  work  define  the  view  of  an  author,  especially  a  dramatic 
author  like  Shakespeare?  How  clearly  and  systematically  were 
philosophical  views  held  by  poets  and  other  writers?  Isn't  it  fre- 
quently an  anachronism  of  the  worst  sort  to  assume  that  a  writer 
in  older  centuries  held  a  personal  philosophy,  felt  even  the  de- 
mand for  it,  or  lived  among  people  who  would  encourage  any 
personal  pattern  of  opinions  or  be  interested  in  it?  Do  not  liter- 
ary historians  frequently  grossly  overrate,  even  among  recent 
authors,  the  coherence,  clarity,  and  scope  of  their  philosophical 
convictions? 

Even  if  we  think  of  authors  who  were  highly  self-conscious  or 


112  Theory  of  Literature 

even,  as  in  a  few  instances,  speculative  philosophers  themselves 
and  wrote  poetry  which  could  be  called  "philosophical,"  we  shall 
still  have  to  ask  such  questions  as  these:  Is  poetry  better  because 
it  is  more  philosophical?  Can  poetry  be  judged  according  to  the 
value  of  the  philosophy  which  it  adopts  or  according  to  the  de- 
gree of  insight  which  it  shows  into  the  philosophy  it  adopts?  Or 
can  it  be  judged  by  criteria  of  philosophical  originality,  by  the  de- 
gree with  which  it  modified  traditional  thought?  T.  S.  Eliot  has 
preferred  Dante  to  Shakespeare  because  the  philosophy  of  Dante 
seemed  to  him  sounder  than  that  of  Shakespeare.  A  German 
philosopher,  Hermann  Glockner,  has  argued  that  poetry  and 
philosophy  have  never  been  farther  apart  than  in  Dante  because 
Dante  took  over  a  finished  system  without  changing  it.12  The 
true  collaboration  between  philosophy  and  poetry  occurred  when 
there  were  poets-thinkers  like  Empedocles  in  the  pre-Socratic 
age  of  Greece,  or  during  the  Renaissance  when  Ficino  or  Gior- 
dano Bruno  wrote  poetry  and  philosophy,  poetic  philosophy 
and  philosophical  poetry,  and  later  in  Germany,  when  Goethe 
was  both  a  poet  and  an  original  philosopher. 

But  are  philosophical  standards  of  this  sort  criteria  of  literary 
criticism?  Is  Pope's  Essay  on  Man  to  be  condemned  because  it 
shows  considerable  eclecticism  in  its  sources  and  consistency  only 
passage  by  passage,  while  the  total  is  riddled  with  over-all  inco- 
herencies?  Does  the  fact  that  we  can  show  Shelley  to  have  pro- 
gressed, at  a  certain  time  of  his  life,  from  the  crude  materialism 
of  Godwin  to  some  sort  of  Platonic  idealism,  make  him  a  better 
poet  or  a  worse?  Can  the  impression  that  Shelley's  poetry  is 
vague,  monotonous,  and  boring,  which  seems  to  be  the  experience 
of  a  new  generation  of  readers,  be  refuted  by  showing  that,  prop- 
erly interpreted,  his  philosophy  made  sense  in  its  time,  or  that 
this  or  that  passage  is  not  meaningless  but  alludes  to  contempo- 
rary scientific  or  pseudo-scientific  conceptions?  13  All  these  criteria 
are  surely  based  on  the  intellectualist  misunderstanding,  on  a 
confusion  of  the  functions  of  philosophy  and  art,  on  a  misunder- 
standing of  the  way  ideas  actually  enter  into  literature. 

These  objections  to  the  excessive  intellectualism  of  the  phil- 
osophical approach  have  been  taken  account  of  in  some  methods 
developed  especially  in  Germany.  Rudolf  Unger  has  most  clearly 
defended  an  approach  which,  though  not  systematically  ex- 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 1 3 

ploited  before,  had  long  been  used.14  He  rightly  argues  that  lit- 
erature is  not  philosophical  knowledge  translated  into  imagery 
and  verse,  but  that  literature  expresses  a  general  attitude  toward 
life,  that  poets  usually  answer,  unsystematically,  questions  which 
are  also  themes  of  philosophy  but  that  the  poetic  mode  of  an- 
swering differs  in  different  ages  and  situations.  Unger  classifies 
these  "problems"  in  the  following  rather  arbitrary  manner:  the 
problem  of  fate,  by  which  he  means  the  relation  of  freedom  and 
necessity,  spirit  and  nature ;  the  religious  "problem,"  including 
the  interpretation  of  Christ,  the  attitude  toward  sin  and  salva- 
tion} the  problem  of  nature,  which  would  include  such  questions 
as  the  feelings  for  nature,  but  also  questions  of  myth  and  magic. 
Another  group  of  problems  Unger  calls  the  problem  of  man. 
It  concerns  questions  of  the  concept  of  man,  but  also  of  man's 
relation  to  death,  man's  concept  of  love;  and  finally  there  is 
a  group  of  problems  of  society,  family,  and  state.  The  attitude 
of  the  writers  is  to  be  studied  in  relation  to  these  problems,  and 
in  some  cases,  books  have  been  produced  which  try  to  trace  the 
history  of  these  problems  in  terms  of  an  assumed  immanent  de- 
velopment. Walter  Rehm  has  written  a  large  book  on  the  prob- 
lem of  death  in  German  poetry,  Paul  Kluckhohn  on  the  concep- 
tion of  love  in  the  eighteenth  century  and  the  Romantic  age.15 

In  other  languages,  there  is  similar  work.  Mario  Praz's  Ro- 
mantic Agony  could  be  described  as  a  book  about  the  problem  of 
sex  and  death  as  its  Italian  title  The  Fleshy  Death,  and  the 
Devil 16  suggests.  C.  S.  Lewis'  Allegory  of  Love,  besides  being 
a  genre  history  of  allegory,  contains  much  about  changing  atti- 
tudes toward  love  and  marriage,  and  Theodore  Spencer  has 
written  a  book  on  Death  and  Elizabethan  Tragedy  which  traces 
in  its  introductory  part  the  medieval  conception  of  death  in  con- 
trast to  Renaissance  conceptions.17  To  give  only  one  example: 
man  in  the  Middle  Ages  feared  sudden  death  most,  as  it  pre- 
cluded preparation  and  repentance,  while  Montaigne  begins  to 
think  that  a  quick  death  is  best.  He  has  lost  the  Christian  view 
that  death  is  the  aim  of  life.  H.  N.  Fairchild  has  attempted  to 
trace  religious  trends  in  English  eighteenth-century  poetry  by 
classifying  writers  according  to  the  heat  of  their  religious  emo- 
tions.18  In  France,  Abbe  Bremond's  voluminous  History   of 


114  Theory  of  Literature 

French  Religious  Sentiment  in  the  Seventeenth  Century  draws 
much  of  its  material  from  literature}  and  Monglond  and  Tra- 
hard  have  written  very  fine  studies  of  sentimentalism,  the  pre- 
romantic  feeling  for  nature,  and  the  curious  sensibility  displayed 
by  the  French  Revolutionaries.19 

If  one  surveys  Unger's  list,  one  must  recognize  that  some  of 
the  problems  he  enumerates  are  simply  philosophical,  ideological 
problems  for  which  the  poet  has  been  only,  in  Sidney's  phrase, 
the  "right  popular  philosopher,"  while  other  problems  belong 
rather  to  a  history  of  sensibility  and  sentiment  than  to  a  history 
of  thought.  Sometimes  the  ideological  intermingles  with  the 
purely  emotional.  In  his  attitude  to  nature  man  is  profoundly  in- 
fluenced by  cosmological  and  religious  speculations  but  also  di- 
rectly by  aesthetic  considerations,  literary  conventions,  and  pos- 
sibly even  physiological  changes  in  his  manner  of  seeing.20  Land- 
scape feeling,  though  also  determined  by  travelers,  painters,  and 
garden  designers,  has  been  profoundly  influenced  by  poets  such 
as  Milton  or  Thomson  and  writers  like  Ruskin. 

A  history  of  sentiment  will  make  considerable  difficulties,  since 
sentiment  is  elusive  and,  at  the  same  time,  uniform.  The  Ger- 
mans have  certainly  exaggerated  the  changes  in  human  attitudes 
and  have  constructed  schemes  of  their  development  which  are 
suspiciously  neat.  Still,  there  is  little  doubt  that  sentiment 
changes^  has  at  the  very  least  its  conventions  and  fashions.  Balzac 
amusingly  comments  on  M.  Hulot's  frivolous  eighteenth-cen- 
tury attitude  to  love  as  different  from  that  of  Madame  Marneffe, 
who  has  the  new  Restoration  conventions  of  the  poor  feeble 
woman,  the  "sister  of  charity."  21  The  torrents  of  tears  of  the 
eighteenth-century  reader  and  writer  are  a  commonplace  of  lit- 
erary history.  Gellert,  a  German  poet  of  intellectual  and  social 
standing,  cried  over  the  parting  of  Grandison  and  Clementine 
till  his  handkerchief,  his  book,  his  table,  and  even  the  floor  got 
wet,  and  boasted  of  it  in  a  letter}22  and  even  Dr.  Johnson,  not 
renowned  for  softheartedness,  indulged  in  tears  and  sentimental 
effusions  far  more  unrestrainedly  than  our  contemporaries,  at 
least  those  of  the  intellectual  classes.23 

In  the  study  of  the  individual  writer,  Unger's  less  intellectual- 
ist  point  of  view  also  has  its  advantages,  since  it  tries  to  define 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 1 5 

less  tangibly,  less  overtly  formulated  attitudes  and  ideas.  It  is  less 
in  danger  of  isolating  and  reducing  the  contents  of  a  work  of  art 
to  mere  prose  statement,  a  mere  formula. 

The  study  of  these  attitudes  has  led  some  German  philos- 
ophers to  speculate  about  the  possibility  of  reducing  them  to  a 
few  types  of  W eltanschauung>  a  term  which  is  used  widely 
enough  to  include  both  philosophical  ideas  and  emotional  atti- 
tudes. The  most  well-known  attempt  is  that  of  Dilthey,  who  in 
his  practice  as  a  literary  historian  has  constantly  stressed  the  dif- 
ference between  an  idea  and  an  experience  (Erlebnis).  He  finds 
three  main  types  in  the  history  of  thought: 2i  positivism,  which 
derives  from  Democritus  and  Lucretius  and  includes  Hobbes, 
the  French  encyclopedists,  and  modern  materialists  and  positiv- 
ists;  objective  idealism,  which  includes  Heraclitus,  Spinoza, 
Leibniz,  Schelling,  Hegel ;  and  a  dualistic  idealism,  or  "Idealism 
of  Freedom,"  which  includes  Plato,  the  Christian  theologians, 
Kant,  and  Fichte.  The  first  group  explains  the  spiritual  by  the 
physical  world,  the  second  sees  reality  as  the  expression  of  an 
internal  reality  and  does  not  recognize  a  conflict  between  being 
and  value,  the  third  assumes  the  independence  of  spirit  against 
nature.  Dilthey  then  associates  specific  authors  with  these  types: 
Balzac  and  Stendhal  belong  to  the  first  type;  Goethe  to  the  sec- 
ond; Schiller  to  the  third.  This  is  a  classification  not  based  merely 
on  conscious  adherence  and  pronouncements,  but  deducible,  it 
is  supposed,  from  even  the  most  unintellectual  art.  The  types 
are  also  associated  with  general  psychological  attitudes:  thus 
realism  with  predominance  of  the  intellect,  objective  idealism 
with  the  predominance  of  feeling,  the  dualistic  idealism  with  the 
predominance  of  will. 

Hermann  Nohl  has  tried  to  show  that  the  types  are  also  ap- 
plicable to  painting  and  music.25  Rembrandt  and  Rubens  belong 
to  the  objective  idealists,  the  pantheists;  painters  like  Velasquez 
and  Hals  to  the  realists;  Michelangelo  to  the  subjective  idealists. 
Berlioz  belongs  to  type  I,  Schubert  to  type  II,  Beethoven  to  type 
III.  The  argument  from  painting  and  music  is  important,  since 
it  implies  that  these  types  can  exist  also  in  literature  without  any 
overtly  intellectual  content.  Unger  has  tried  to  show  that  the 
differences  will  hold  good  even  of  small  lyrical  poems  by 


1 1 6  Theory  of  Literature 

Morike,  C.  F.  Meyer  and  Liliencron ; 26  he  and  Nohl  tried  to 
show  that  Weltanschauung  can  be  discovered  merely  from  style 
or,  at  least,  from  scenes  in  a  novel  with  no  direct  intellectual  con- 
tent. Here  the  theory  changes  into  a  theory  of  fundamental 
artistic  styles.  Walzel  has  attempted  to  link  it  with  the  Principles 
of  Art  History  of  Wolfflin  and  similar  typologies.27 

The  interest  of  these  speculations  is  considerable,  and  many 
variations  of  the  theory  here  expounded  have  been  invented  in 
Germany.  They  have  also  been  applied  to  the  history  of  litera- 
ture. Walzel,  for  example,  sees,  in  nineteenth-century  Germany 
and,  presumably,  European  literature,  a  clear  evolution  from 
type  II  (Goethe's  and  the  Romantics'  objective  idealism), 
through  type  I  (realism),  which  progressively  becomes  conscious 
of  the  phenomenality  of  the  world  in  impressionism,  to  a  sub- 
jective, dualistic  idealism  represented  by  expressionism,  the  rep- 
resentative of  type  III.  Walzel's  scheme  does  not  merely  state 
that  there  was  this  change  but  that  this  change  is  somehow  inter- 
locking and  logical.  Pantheism  at  a  certain  stage  leads  to  natural- 
ism, and  naturalism  leads  to  impressionism,  and  the  subjectivity 
of  impressionism  finally  merges  into  a  new  idealism.  The  scheme 
is  dialectical  and  ultimately  Hegelian. 

A  sober  view  of  these  speculations  will  be  skeptical  of  the 
neatness  of  these  schemes.  It  will  doubt  the  sacredness  of  the 
number  three.  Unger  himself,  for  example,  distinguishes  two 
types  of  objective  idealism:  a  harmonious  type,  represented  by 
Goethe,  and  a  dialectical,  in  Boehme,  Schelling,  and  Hegel  -y  and 
similar  objections  could  be  voiced  against  the  types  of  "posi- 
tivism," which  seems  to  cover  a  multitude  of  frequently  highly 
divergent  points  of  view.  But  less  important  than  such  objections 
against  the  details  of  the  classification  are  the  doubts  which  must 
arise  about  the  whole  assumption  behind  the  undertaking.  All 
typology  of  this  sort  leads  only  to  a  rough  classification  of  all  lit- 
erature under  three,  or  at  the  most  five  or  six,  headings.  The 
concrete  individuality  of  the  poets  and  their  works  is  ignored  or 
minimized.  From  a  literary  point  of  view,  little  seems  to  be 
achieved  by  classifying  such  diverse  poets  as  Blake,  Wordsworth, 
and  Shelley  as  "objective  idealists."  There  seems  little  point  in 
reducing  the  history  of  poetry  to  the  permutations  of  three  or 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 1 7 

more  types  of  W eltanschauung.  Finally,  the  position  implies  a 
radical  and  excessive  relativism.  The  assumption  must  be  that 
these  three  types  are  of  equal  value  and  that  the  poet  cannot  but 
choose  one  of  them  on  the  basis  of  his  temperament  or  some 
fundamentally  irrational,  merely  given  attitude  toward  the 
world.  The  implication  is  that  there  are  only  so  many  types  and 
that  every  poet  is  an  illustration  of  one  of  these  types.  The  whole 
theory,  of  course,  is  based  on  a  general  philosophy  of  history 
which  assumes  a  close  and  necessary  relation  between  philosophy 
and  art  not  only  in  the  individual  but  in  a  period  and  in  history. 
We  are  led  to  a  discussion  of  the  assumptions  of  Geistesge- 
schichte. 

Geistesgeschichte  may  be  used  widely  as  an  alternative  term  for 
intellectual  history,  for  the  history  of  ideas  in  Lovejoy's  sense ; 
and  it  has  the  advantage  of  being  a  less  intellectualized  term  than 
the  English.  Geist  is  a  wide  term  which  will  include  the  prob- 
lems described  as  belonging  largely  to  the  history  of  sentiment. 
Geist  has,  however,  less  desirable  associations  with  the  whole 
conception  of  an  objective  "spirit."  But  Geistesgeschichte  is 
usually  understood  in  Germany  in  an  even  more  special  sense:  it 
assumes  that  each  period  has  its  "time  spirit"  and  aims  to  "recon- 
struct the  spirit  of  a  time  from  the  different  objectivations  of  an 
age — from  its  religion  down  to  its  costumes.  We  look  for  the 
totality  behind  the  objects  and  explain  all  facts  by  this  spirit  of 
the  time."28 

It  assumes  a  very  tight  coherence  of  all  cultural  and  other 
activities  of  man,  a  complete  parallelism  of  the  arts  and  sciences. 
The  method  goes  back  to  suggestions  made  by  the  Schlegels  and 
has  had  its  most  well-known  as  well  as  most  extravagant  ex- 
ponent in  Spengler.  But  it  has  also  academic  practitioners  who  are 
literary  historians  by  profession  and  who  have  used  the  method 
largely  with  literary  materials.  Its  practice  varies  from  fairly 
sober  dialecticians  like  Korff  (who  traces  the  history  of  German 
literature  between  1750  and  1830  in  terms  of  a  dialectical  move- 
ment from  rationality  to  irrationality  to  their  Hegelian  synthesis) 
to  fantastic,  quibbling,  pseudo-mystical,  verbalistic  productions 
by  Cysarz,  Deutschbein,  Stefansky,  and  Meissner.29  The  method 
is  largely  a  method  of  analogy:  negative  analogy,  in  so  far  as  it 
tends  to  emphasize  the  differences  between  a  given  age  and  to 


1 1 8  Theory  of  Literature 

forget  the  likenesses,  and  positive  analogy,  in  so  far  as  it  tends  to 
emphasize  the  likenesses  among  the  happenings  or  productions 
of  a  particular  period  and  to  forget  the  differences.  The  Ro- 
mantic and  the  Baroque  periods  have  proved  to  be  particularly 
happy  hunting  grounds  for  such  exercises  of  ingenuity. 

A  good  example  is  Meissner's  Die  geisteswissenschajtlichen 
Grundlagen  des  englischen  Liter aturbarocks  (1934),  which  de- 
fines the  spirit  of  the  age  as  a  conflict  of  antithetic  tendencies  and 
pursues  this  formula  relentlessly  through  all  human  activities 
from  technology  to  exploration,  from  traveling  to  religion.  The 
material  is  neatly  ordered  into  such  categories  as  expansion  and 
concentration,  macrocosmos  and  microcosmos,  sin  and  salvation, 
faith  and  reason,  absolutism  and  democracy,  "atectonics"  and 
"tectonics."  By  such  universal  analogizing,  Meissner  arrives  at 
the  triumphant  conclusion  that  the  Baroque  age  showed  conflict, 
contradiction,  and  tension  throughout  its  manifestations.  There 
were  active  men  interested  in  conquering  nature  and  praising 
war  j  there  were  passionate  collectors,  travelers,  adventurers  -, 
but  there  were  also  contemplative  men  who  sought  out  solitude 
or  founded  secret  societies.  Some  people  were  fascinated  by  the 
new  astronomy,  while  others,  the  diarists,  analyzed  personal 
states  of  mind  or  drew  the  individual  features  of  men  like  the 
painters  of  portraits.  There  were  some  who  believed  in  the  divine 
right  of  kings  and  others  who  believed  in  an  equalitarian  de- 
mocracy. Everything  exemplifies  thus  the  principle  either  of  con- 
centration or  of  expansion.  If  we  want  concentration  in  literature, 
we  are  presented  with  the  plain  style  of  prose  promoted  by  the 
Royal  Society  after  the  Restoration.  If  we  want  expansion,  we 
are  shown  the  long  involved  sentences  of  Milton  or  Sir  Thomas 
Browne.  Like  his  fellow  workers,  Meissner  never  asks  the  ob- 
vious but  fundamental  question  whether  the  same  scheme  of 
contraries  could  not  be  extracted  from  almost  any  other  age.  Nor 
does  he  raise  the  question  whether  we  could  not  impose  a  com- 
pletely different  scheme  of  contraries  on  the  seventeenth  century, 
and  even  on  the  basis  of  the  same  quotations,  drawn  from  his  wide 
reading. 

Similarly,  Korff's  large  books  reduce  all  and  everything  to  the 
thesis,  "rationalism,"  the  antithesis,  "irrationalism,"  and  their 
synthesis,  "Romanticism."  Rationalism  quickly  assumes  in  Korff 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 1 9 

also  a  formal  meaning,  "Classicism,"  and  irrationalism  the  mean- 
ing of  the  loose  Storm  and  Stress  form,  while  German  Romanti- 
cism is  pressed  into  service  as  the  synthesis.  There  are  many 
books  in  German  which  work  with  such  contraries:  Cassirer's 
much  more  sober  Freiheit  und  Form,  Cysarz's  tortuous  Erfah- 
rung  und  Idee.30  With  some  German  writers  these  ideological 
types  are  either  closely  connected  or  simply  shade  off  into  racial 
types :  the  German,  or  at  least  the  Teuton,  is  the  man  of  feeling, 
while  the  Latin  is  the  man  of  reason ;  or  again  the  types  may  be 
basically  psychological,  like  the  usual  contrast  between  the  dae- 
monic and  the  rational.  Finally,  the  ideological  types  are  said  to 
be  interchangeable  with  stylistic  concepts:  they  merge  with 
Classicism  and  Romanticism,  the  Baroque  and  the  Gothic,  and 
have  given  rise  to  an  enormous  literature  in  which  ethnology, 
psychology,  ideology,  and  art  history  are  presented  in  an  inex- 
tricable mixture  and  confusion. 

But  the  whole  assumption  of  a  complete  integration  of  a  time, 
of  a  race,  of  a  work  of  art  is  open  to  serious  question.  The  paral- 
lelism of  the  arts  can  be  accepted  only  with  large  reservations. 
The  parallelism  between  philosophy  and  poetry  is  even  more 
open  to  doubt.  We  need  only  to  think  of  English  Romantic 
poetry  which  flourished  during  a  time  when  English  and  Scot- 
tish philosophy  were  completely  dominated  by  common  sense 
philosophy  and  utilitarianism.  Even  at  times  when  philosophy 
seems  to  be  in  close  contact  with  literature,  the  actual  integration 
is  far  less  certain  than  it  is  assumed  by  German  Geistesgeschichte. 
The  German  Romantic  movement  is  studied  mostly  in  the  light 
of  the  philosophy  developed  by  men  like  Fichte  or  Schelling, 
professional  philosophers,  and  by  writers  like  Friedrich  Schlegel 
and  Novalis,  borderline  cases  whose  actual  artistic  productions 
were  neither  of  central  importance  nor  artistically  very  success- 
ful. The  greatest  poets  or  dramatists  or  novelists  of  the  German 
Romantic  movement  had  frequently  only  tenuous  relationships 
with  contemporary  philosophy  (as  was  the  case  with  E.  T.  A. 
Hoffmann  and  Eichendorff,  a  traditional  Catholic)  or  evolved 
a  philosophical  point  of  view  inimical  to  the  Romantic  philos- 
ophers far  excellence,  as  did  Jean  Paul  Richter,  who  attacked 
Fichte,  or  Kleist,  who  felt  crushed  by  Kant.  The  strong  integra- 
tion between  philosophy  and  literature,  even  during  the  German 


120  Theory  of  Literature 

Romantic  movement,  can  be  achieved  only  by  arguing  from  frag- 
ments and  theoretical  disquisitions  of  Novalis  and  Friedrich 
Schlegel,  avowedly  Fichte's  disciples,  whose  speculations,  fre- 
quently unpublished  in  their  time,  had  little  to  do  with  the  pro- 
duction of  concrete  works  of  literature.  The  genuine  artistic 
achievements  of  Novalis  (such  as  some  poems)  are  scarcely  re- 
lated to  the  Fragmente. 

The  close  integration  between  philosophy  and  literature  is  fre- 
quently deceptive,  and  arguments  in  its  favor  are  overrated  be- 
cause they  are  based  on  a  study  of  literary  ideology,  professions 
of  intentions,  and  programs  which,  necessarily  borrowing  from 
existing  aesthetic  formulations,  may  sustain  only  remote  rela- 
tionship to  the  actual  practice  of  the  artists.  This  skepticism  about 
the  close  integration  of  philosophy  and  literature  does  not,  of 
course,  deny  the  existence  of  many  relationships  and  even  the 
likelihood  of  a  certain  parallelism  reinforced  by  the  common 
social  background  of  a  time,  and  hence  by  common  influences 
exerted  on  literature  and  philosophy.  But,  even  here,  the  as- 
sumption of  a  common  social  background  may  really  be  decep- 
tive. Philosophy  has  frequently  been  cultivated  by  a  special  class 
which  may  be  very  different  from  the  practitioners  of  poetry, 
both  in  social  affiliations  and  provenience.  Philosophy,  much 
more  than  literature,  has  been  identified  with  the  Church  and 
the  Academy.  It  has,  like  all  the  other  activities  of  mankind,  its 
own  history,  its  own  dialectics:  its  factions  and  movements  are 
not,  it  seems  to  us,  so  closely  related  to  literary  movements  as  it 
is  assumed  by  many  practitioners  of  Geistesgeschkhte. 

The  explanation  of  literary  change  in  terms  of  a  "time  spirit" 
seems  positively  vicious  when  this  spirit  becomes  a  mythical  in- 
tegral and  absolute,  instead  of  being,  at  the  most,  a  pointer  to  a 
difficult  and  obscure  problem.  German  Geistesgeschkhte  has 
usually  merely  succeeded  in  transferring  criteria  from  one  series 
(either  one  of  the  arts  or  philosophy)  to  the  whole  of  cultural 
activity  and  has  then  characterized  the  time  and  in  it  every  indi- 
vidual work  of  literature  in  terms  of  such  vague  contraries  as 
Classicism  and  Romanticism  or  Rationalism  and  Irrationalism. 
The  conception  of  the  "time  spirit"  has  also  frequently  disastrous 
consequences  for  a  conception  of  the  continuity  of  Western 
civilization:  the  individual  ages  are  conceived  as  far  too  sharply 


Literature  and  Ideas  1 2 1 

distinct  and  discontinuous,  and  the  revolutions  which  they  show 
are  conceived  of  as  so  radical  that  the  Geisteswissenschaftler 
ends  not  only  in  complete  historical  relativism  (one  age  is  as 
good  as  another)  but  also  in  a  false  conception  of  individuality 
and  originality  which  obscures  the  basic  constants  in  human  na- 
ture, civilization,  and  the  arts.  In  Spengler  we  arrive  at  the  idea 
of  closed  cultural  cycles  developing  with  fatal  necessity:  self- 
enclosed,  though  mysteriously  parallel.  Antiquity  does  not  con- 
tinue into  the  Middle  Ages,  the  continuity  of  Western  literary 
evolution  is  completely  obscured,  denied,  or  forgotten. 

These  fantastic  card  palaces  should  not,  of  course,  obscure  the 
real  problem  of  a  general  history  of  mankind  or,  at  least,  of 
Western  civilization.  We  are  only  convinced  that  the  solutions 
offered  by  the  usual  Geistesgeschichte,  with  its  excessive  reliance 
on  contraries  and  analogies,  its  uncritical  presupposition  of  the 
seesaw  alterations  of  styles  and  Denkformen,  and  its  belief  in  a 
complete  integration  of  all  activities  of  man,  have  been  premature 
and,  frequently,  immature. 

Instead  of  speculating  on  such  large-scale  problems  of  the 
philosophy  of  history  and  the  ultimate  integral  of  civilization, 
the  literary  student  should  turn  his  attention  to  the  concrete 
problem  not  yet  solved  or  even  adequately  discussed :  the  question 
of  how  ideas  actually  enter  into  literature.  It  is  obviously  not  a 
question  of  ideas  in  a  work  of  literature  as  long  as  these  ideas 
remain  mere  raw  material,  mere  information.  The  question 
arises  only  when  and  if  these  ideas  are  actually  incorporated  into 
the  very  texture  of  the  work  of  art,  when  they  become  "constitu- 
tive," in  short,  when  they  cease  to  be  ideas  in  the  ordinary  sense 
of  concepts  and  become  symbols,  or  even  myths.  There  is  the 
large  province  of  didactic  poetry  in  which  ideas  are  merely 
stated,  are  provided  with  meter  or  with  some  embellishments  of 
metaphor  or  allegory.  There  is  the  novel  of  ideas  such  as  George 
Sand's  or  George  Eliot's  where  we  get  discussions  of  "problems," 
social,  moral,  or  philosophical.  On  a  higher  level  of  integration 
there  is  a  novel  like  Melville's  Moby  Dick  where  the  whole  ac- 
tion conveys  some  mythic  meaning,  or  a  poem  like  Bridges' 
Testament  of  Beauty  which  in  intention  at  least  is  pervaded  by 
a  single  philosophical  metaphor.  And  there  is  Dostoevsky,  in 
whose  novels  the  drama  of  ideas  is  acted  out  in  concrete  terms  of 


122  Theory  of  Literature 

characters  and  events.  In  the  Brothers  Karamazov,  the  four 
brothers  are  but  carriers,  symbols  who  represent  an  ideological 
debate  which  is,  at  the  same  time,  a  personal  drama.  The  ideo- 
logical conclusion  is  integral  to  the  personal  catastrophes  of  the 
main  figures. 

But  are  these  philosophical  novels  and  poems,  such  as  Goethe's 
Faust  or  Dostoevsky's  Brothers ,  superior  works  of  art  because  of 
their  philosophical  import?  Must  not  we  rather  conclude  that 
"philosophical  truth"  as  such  has  no  artistic  value  just  as  we 
argued  that  psychological  or  social  truth  has  no  artistic  value  as 
such?  Philosophy,  ideological  content,  in  it  proper  context,  seems 
to  enhance  artistic  value  because  it  corroborates  several  important 
artistic  values:  those  of  complexity  and  coherence.  A  theoretical 
insight  may  increase  the  artist's  depth  of  penetration  and  scope 
of  reach.  But  it  need  not  be  so.  The  artist  will  be  hampered  by 
too  much  ideology  if  it  remains  unassimilated.  Croce  has  argued 
that  the  Divine  Comedy  consists  of  passages  of  poetry  alternat- 
ing with  passages  of  rhymed  theology  and  pseudo-science.31  The 
second  part  of  Faust  indubitably  suffers  from  overintellec- 
tualization,  is  constantly  on  the  verge  of  overt  allegory  j  and  in 
Dostoevsky  we  frequently  feel  the  discrepancy  between  the  ar- 
tistic success  and  the  weight  of  thought.  Zossima,  Dostoevsky's 
spokesman,  is  a  less  vividly  realized  character  than  Ivan  Karama- 
zov.  On  a  lower  level,  Thomas  Mann's  Magic  Mountain  il- 
lustrates the  same  contradiction:  the  early  parts,  with  their  evo- 
cation of  the  sanatorium  world,  are  artistically  superior  to  the 
later  parts  of  large  philosophical  pretensions.  Sometimes,  in  the 
history  of  literature,  however,  there  are  cases,  confessedly  rare, 
when  ideas  incandesce,  when  figures  and  scenes  not  merely  rep- 
resent but  actually  embody  ideas,  when  some  identification  of 
philosophy  and  art  seems  to  take  place.  Image  becomes  concept 
and  concept  image.  But  are  these  necessarily  the  summits  of  art, 
as  many  philosophically  inclined  critics  assume  them  to  be? 
Croce  seems  right  arguing,  in  a  discussion  of  the  second  part  of 
Faust,  that  "when  poetry  becomes  superior  in  this  manner,  that 
is  to  say,  superior  to  itself,  it  loses  rank  as  poetry,  and  should  be 
termed  rather  inferior,  namely  wanting  in  poetry."  32  At  least,  it 
should  be  granted  that  philosophical  poetry,  however  integrated, 
is  only  one  kind  of  poetry,  and  that  its  position  is  not  necessarily 


Literature  and  Ideas  123 

central  in  literature  unless  one  holds  to  a  theory  of  poetry  which 
is  revelatory,  essentially  mystical.  Poetry  is  not  substitute-phi- 
losophy j  it  has  its  own  justification  and  aim.  Poetry  of  ideas  is 
like  other  poetry,  not  to  be  judged  by  the  value  of  the  material 
but  by  its  degree  of  integration  and  artistic  intensity. 


CHAPTER  XI 

Literature  and  the  Other  Arts 

The  relationships  of  literature  with  the  fine  arts  and  music 
are  highly  various  and  complex.  Sometimes  poetry  has  drawn 
inspiration  from  paintings  or  sculpture  or  music.  Like  natural 
objects  and  persons,  other  works  of  art  may  become  the  themes 
of  poetry.  That  poets  have  described  pieces  of  sculpture,  painting, 
or  even  music  presents  no  particular  theoretical  problem.  Spen- 
ser, it  has  been  suggested,  drew  some  of  his  descriptions  from 
tapestries  and  pageants  5  the  paintings  of  Claude  Lorrain  and 
Salvatore  Rosa  influenced  eighteenth-century  landscape  poetry  j 
Keats  derived  details  of  his  "Ode  on  a  Grecian  Urn"  from  a  spe- 
cific picture  of  Claude  Lorrain.1  Stephen  A.  Larrabee  has  con- 
sidered all  the  allusions  and  treatments  of  Greek  sculpture  to  be 
found  in  English  poetry.2  Albert  Thibaudet  has  shown  that 
Mallarme's  "L'Apres-midi  d'un  faune"  was  inspired  by  a  paint- 
ing of  Boucher  in  the  London  National  Gallery.3  Poets,  espe- 
cially nineteenth-century  poets  like  Hugo,  Gautier,  the  Parnas- 
siens,  and  Tieck,  have  written  poems  on  definite  pictures.  Poets, 
of  course,  have  had  their  theories  about  painting  and  their  pref- 
erences among  painters,  which  can  be  studied  and  more  or  less 
related  to  their  theories  about  literature  and  their  literary  tastes. 
Here  is  a  wide  area  for  investigation,  only  partially  traversed  in 
recent  decades.4 

In  its  turn,  obviously,  literature  can  become  the  theme  of 

painting  or  of  music,  especially  vocal  and  program  music,  just 

as  literature,  especially  the  lyric  and  the  drama,  has  intimately 

collaborated  with  music.  In  an  increasing  number,  there  are 

studies  of  medieval  carols  or  Elizabethan  lyrical  poetry  which 

stress  the  close  association  of  the  musical  setting.5  In  art  history 

there  has  appeared  a  whole  group  of  scholars  (Erwin  Panofsky, 

Fritz  Saxl,  and  others)  who  study  the  conceptual  and  symbolic 

124 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  125 

meanings  of  works  of  art  ("Iconology")  and  frequently  also 
their  literary  relations  and  inspirations.0 

Beyond  these  obvious  questions  of  sources  and  influences,  in- 
spiration, and  co-operation,  there  arises  a  more  important  prob- 
lem: literature  has  sometimes  definitely  attempted  to  achieve 
the  effects  of  painting — to  become  word  painting,  or  has  tried  to 
achieve  the  effects  of  music — to  turn  into  music.  At  times,  poetry 
has  even  wanted  to  be  sculpturesque.  A  critic  may,  as  did  Lessing 
in  his  Laokoon  and  Irving  Babbitt  in  his  New  Laokodny  deplore 
this  confusion  of  genres ;  but  one  cannot  deny  that  the  arts  have 
tried  to  borrow  effects  from  each  other  and  that  they  have  been, 
in  considerable  measure,  successful  in  achieving  these  effects. 
One  can,  of  course,  deny  the  possibility  of  the  literal  metamor- 
phosis of  poetry  into  sculpture,  painting,  or  music.  The  term 
"sculpturesque,"  applied  to  poetry,  even  to  that  of  Landor  or 
Gautier  or  Heredia,  is  merely  a  vague  metaphor,  meaning  that 
the  poetry  conveys  an  impression  somehow  similar  to  the  effects 
of  Greek  sculpture :  coolness,  induced  by  white  marble  or  plaster 
casts,  stillness,  repose,  sharp  outlines,  clarity.  But  we  must  recog- 
nize that  coolness  in  poetry  is  something  very  different  from  the 
tactual  sensation  of  marble,  or  the  imaginative  reconstruction  of 
that  perception  from  whiteness ;  that  stillness  in  poetry  is  some- 
thing very  different  from  stillness  in  sculpture.  When  Collins' 
"Ode  to  Evening"  is  called  a  "sculptured  poem"  nothing  is  said 
that  implies  any  real  relationship  with  sculpture.7  The  only 
analyzable  objectivities  are  the  slow,  solemn  meter  and  the  dic- 
tion, which  is  strange  enough  to  compel  attention  to  individual 
words  and  hence  to  enforce  a  slow  pace  in  reading. 

But  one  can  hardly  deny  the  success  of  the  Horatian  formula 
ut  fictura  foesis.5  Though  the  amount  of  visualization  in  the 
reading  of  poetry  is  likely  to  be  overrated,  there  were  ages  and 
there  were  poets  who  did  make  the  reader  visualize.  Lessing  may 
have  been  right  in  criticizing  the  enumerative  description  of  fe- 
male beauty  in  Ariosto  as  visually  ineffective  (though  not  neces- 
sarily poetically  ineffective),  but  the  eighteenth-century  addicts 
of  the  picturesque  cannot  be  easily  dismissed ;  and  modern  litera- 
ture from  Chateaubriand  to  Proust  has  given  us  many  descrip- 
tions at  least  suggesting  the  effects  of  painting  and  inciting  us  to 
visualize  scenes  in  terms  frequently  evocative  of  contemporary 


126  Theory  of  Literature 

paintings.  Though  it  may  be  doubted  whether  the  poet  can  really 
suggest  the  effects  of  painting  to  hypothetical  readers  totally  ig- 
norant of  painting,  it  is  clear  that,  within  our  general  cultural 
tradition,  writers  did  suggest  the  emblem,  the  landscape  painting 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  the  impressionistic  effects  of  a  Whistler 
and  the  like. 

Whether  poetry  can  achieve  the  effects  of  music  seems  more 
doubtful,  though  it  is  a  widely  held  view  that  it  can.  "Musical- 
ity"  in  verse,  closely  analyzed,  turns  out  to  be  something  entirely 
different  from  "melody"  in  music:  it  means  an  arrangement  of 
phonetic  patterns,  an  avoidance  of  accumulations  of  consonants, 
or  simply  the  presence  of  certain  rhythmical  effects.  With  such 
romantic  poets  as  Tieck  and,  later,  Verlaine,  the  attempts  to 
achieve  musical  effects  are  largely  attempts  to  suppress  the 
meaning  structure  of  verse,  to  avoid  logical  constructions,  to 
stress  connotations  rather  than  denotations.  Yet  blurred  outlines, 
vagueness  of  meaning,  and  illogicality  are  not,  in  a  literal  sense, 
"musical"  at  all.  Literary  imitations  of  musical  structures  like 
leitmotiv,  the  sonata  or  symphonic  form  seem  to  be  more  con- 
crete ;  but  it  is  hard  to  see  why  repetitive  motifs  or  a  certain  con- 
trasting and  balancing  of  moods,  though  by  avowed  intention 
imitative  of  musical  composition,  are  not  essentially  the  familiar 
literary  devices  of  recurrence,  contrast,  and  the  like  which  are 
common  to  all  the  arts.9  In  the  comparatively  rare  instances 
where  poetry  suggests  definite  musical  sounds,  Verlaine's  "Les 
sanglonts  longs  des  violons"  or  Poe's  "Bells,"  the  effect  of  the 
timbre  of  an  instrument  or  the  very  generalized  clang  of  bells  is 
achieved  by  means  which  are  not  much  beyond  ordinary  onomat- 
opoeia. 

Poems  have  been,  of  course,  written  with  the  intention  that 
music  should  be  added,  e.g.,  many  Elizabethan  airs  and  all 
librettos  for  opera.  In  rare  instances,  poets  and  composers  have 
been  one  and  the  same  5  but  it  seems  hard  to  prove  that  the  com- 
position of  music  and  words  was  ever  a  simultaneous  process. 
Even  Wagner  sometimes  wrote  his  "dramas"  years  before  they 
were  set  to  music ;  and,  no  doubt,  many  lyrics  were  composed  to 
fit  ready  melodies.  But  the  relation  between  music  and  really 
great  poetry  seems  rather  tenuous  when  we  think  of  the  evidence 
afforded  by  even  the  most  successful  settings  into  musical  terms. 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  127 

Poems  of  close-knit,  highly  integrated  structure  do  not  lend 
themselves  to  musical  setting,  while  mediocre  or  poor  poetry, 
like  much  of  the  early  Heine  or  Wilhelm  Miiller,  has  provided 
the  text  for  the  finest  songs  of  Schubert  and  Schumann.  If  the 
poetry  is  of  high  literary  value,  the  setting  frequently  distorts  or 
obscures  its  patterns  completely,  even  when  the  music  has  value 
in  its  own  right.  One  need  not  cite  such  examples  as  the  lot  of 
Shakespeare's  Othello  in  Verdi's  opera,  for  nearly  all  the  settings 
of  the  Psalms  or  of  the  poems  of  Goethe  offer  adequate  proof 
of  the  contention.  Collaboration  between  poetry  and  music  ex- 
ists, to  be  sure  j  but  the  highest  poetry  does  not  tend  towards 
music,  and  the  greatest  music  stands  in  no  need  of  words. 

The  parallels  between  the  fine  arts  and  literature  usually 
amount  to  the  assertion  that  this  picture  and  that  poem  induce 
the  same  mood  in  me :  for  example,  that  I  feel  light-hearted  and 
gay  in  hearing  a  minuet  of  Mozart,  seeing  a  landscape  by  Wat- 
teau,  and  reading  an  Anacreontic  poem.  But  this  is  the  kind  of 
parallelism  which  is  of  little  worth  for  purposes  of  precise 
analysis:  joy  induced  by  a  piece  of  music  is  not  joy  in  general  or 
even  joy  of  a  particular  shade,  but  is  an  emotion  closely  follow- 
ing and  thus  tied  to  the  pattern  of  the  music.  We  experience 
emotions  which  have  only  a  general  tone  in  common  with  those 
of  real  life,  and  even  if  we  define  these  emotions  as  closely  as 
we  can,  we  are  still  quite  removed  from  the  specific  object  which 
induced  them.  Parallels  between  the  arts  which  remain  inside 
the  individual  reactions  of  a  reader  or  spectator  and  are  content 
with  describing  some  emotional  similarity  of  our  reactions  to  two 
arts  will,  therefore,  never  lend  themselves  to  verification  and 
thus  to  a  co-operative  advance  in  our  knowledge. 

Another  common  approach  is  the  intentions  and  theories  of 
the  artists.  No  doubt,  we  can  show  that  there  are  some  similar- 
ities in  the  theories  and  formulas  behind  the  different  arts,  in  the 
Neo-Classical  or  the  Romantic  movements,  and  we  can  find 
also  professions  of  intentions  of  the  individual  artists  in  the  dif- 
ferent arts  which  sound  identical  or  similar.  But  "Classicism"  in 
music  must  mean  something  very  different  from  its  use  in  liter- 
ature for  the  simple  reason  that  no  real  classical  music  (with  the 
exception  of  a  few  fragments)  was  known  and  could  thus  shape 
the  evolution  of  music  as  literature  was  actually  shaped  by  the 


128  Theory  of  Literature 

precepts  and  practice  of  antiquity.  Likewise  painting,  before  the 
excavation  of  the  frescoes  in  Pompeii  and  Herculaneum,  can 
scarcely  be  described  as  influenced  by  classical  painting  in  spite  of 
the  frequent  reference  to  classical  theories  and  Greek  painters 
like  Apelles  and  some  remote  pictorial  traditions  which  must 
have  descended  from  antiquity  through  the  Middle  Ages.  Sculp- 
ture and  architecture,  however,  were  to  an  extent  far  exceeding 
the  other  arts,  including  literature,  determined  by  classical  mod- 
els and  their  derivatives.  Thus  theories  and  conscious  intentions 
mean  something  very  different  in  the  various  arts  and  say  little 
or  nothing  about  the  concrete  results  of  an  artist's  activity:  his 
work  and  its  specific  content  and  form. 

How  indecisive  for  specific  exegesis  the  approach  through  the 
author's  intention  may  be,  can  best  be  observed  in  the  rare  cases 
when  artist  and  poet  are  identical.  For  example,  a  comparison  of 
the  poetry  and  the  paintings  of  Blake,  or  of  Rossetti,  will  show 
that  the  character — not  merely  the  technical  quality — of  their 
painting  and  poetry  is  very  different,  even  divergent.  A  gro- 
tesque little  animal  is  supposed  to  illustrate  "Tiger!  Tiger! 
Burning  bright."  W.  M.  Thackeray  illustrated  Vanity  Fair,  but 
his  smirky  caricature  of  Becky  Sharp  has  hardly  anything  to  do 
with  the  complex  character  in  the  novel.  In  structure  and  quality 
there  is  little  comparison  between  Michelangelo's  Sonnets  and 
his  sculpture  and  paintings,  though  we  can  find  the  same  Neo- 
Platonic  ideas  in  all  and  may  discover  some  psychological  simi- 
larities.10 This  shows  that  the  "medium"  of  a  work  of  art  (an  un- 
fortunate question-begging  term)  is  not  merely  a  technical  ob- 
stacle to  be  overcome  by  the  artist  in  order  to  express  his  per- 
sonality, but  a  factor  preformed  by  tradition  and  having  a  pow- 
erful determining  character  which  shapes  and  modifies  the  ap- 
proach and  expression  of  the  individual  artist.  The  artist  does 
not  conceive  in  general  mental  terms  but  in  terms  of  concrete 
material ;  and  the  concrete  medium  has  its  own  history,  fre- 
quently very  different  from  that  of  any  other  medium. 

More  valuable  than  the  approach  through  the  artist's  inten- 
tions and  theories  is  a  comparison  of  the  arts  on  the  basis  of  their 
common  social  and  cultural  background.  Certainly  it  is  possible 
to  describe  the  common  temporal,  local,  or  social  nourishing  soil 
of  the  arts  and  literature  and  thus  to  point  to  common  influences 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  129 

working  on  them.  Many  parallels  between  the  arts  are  possible 
only  because  they  ignore  the  utterly  different  social  background 
to  which  the  individual  work  of  art  appealed  or  from  which  it 
seems  to  be  derived.  The  social  classes  either  creating  or  de- 
manding a  certain  type  of  art  may  be  quite  different  at  any  one 
time  or  place.  Certainly  the  Gothic  cathedrals  have  a  different 
social  background  from  the  French  epic;  and  sculpture  fre- 
quently appeals  to  and  is  paid  for  by  a  very  different  audience 
from  the  novel.  Just  as  fallacious  as  the  assumption  of  a  common 
social  background  of  the  arts  at  a  given  time  and  place  is  the 
usual  assumption  that  the  intellectual  background  is  necessarily 
identical  and  effective  in  all  the  arts.  It  seems  hazardous  to  in- 
terpret painting  in  the  light  of  contemporary  philosophy:  to 
mention  only  one  example,  Karoly  Tolnai  X1  has  attempted  to 
interpret  the  pictures  of  the  elder  Brueghel  in  evidence  of  a 
pantheistic  monism  paralleling  Cusanus  or  Paracelsus  and  an- 
ticipating Spinoza  and  Goethe.  Even  more  dangerous  is  an  "ex- 
planation" of  the  arts  in  terms  of  a  "time  spirit,"  as  practiced  by 
German  G eistes geschichte y  a  movement  which  we  have  criticized 
in  a  different  context.12 

The  genuine  parallelisms  which  follow  from  the  identical  or 
similar  social  or  intellectual  background  scarcely  ever  have  been 
analyzed  in  concrete  terms.  We  have  no  studies  which  would 
concretely  show  how,  for  example,  all  the  arts  in  a  given  time 
or  setting  expand  or  narrow  their  field  over  the  objects  of 
"nature,"  or  how  the  norms  of  art  are  tied  to  specific  social 
classes  and  thus  subject  to  uniform  changes,  or  how  aesthetic 
values  change  with  social  revolutions.  Here  is  a  wide  field  for 
investigation  which  has  been  scarcely  touched,  yet  promises  con- 
crete results  for  the  comparison  of  the  arts.  Of  course,  only 
similar  influences  on  the  evolution  of  the  different  arts  can  be 
proved  by  this  method,  not  any  necessary  parallelism. 

Obviously,  the  most  central  approach  to  a  comparison  of  the 
arts  is  based  on  an  analysis  of  the  actual  objects  of  art,  and  thus 
of  their  structural  relationships.  There  will  never  be  a  proper 
history  of  an  art,  not  to  speak  of  a  comparative  history  of  the 
arts,  unless  we  concentrate  on  an  analysis  of  the  works  them- 
selves and  relegate  to  the  background  studies  in  the  psychology 
of  the  reader  and  the  spectator  or  the  author  and  the  artist  as 


130  Theory  of  Literature 

well  as  studies  in  the  cultural  and  social  background,  however 
illuminating  they  may  be  from  their  own  point  of  view.  Unfor- 
tunately hitherto  we  have  had  scarcely  any  tools  for  such  a  com- 
parison between  the  arts.  Here  a  very  difficult  question  arises: 
What  are  the  common  and  the  comparable  elements  of  the  arts? 
We  see  no  light  in  a  theory  like  Croce's,  which  concentrates  all 
aesthetic  problems  on  the  act  of  intuition,  mysteriously  identi- 
fied with  expression.  Croce  asserts  the  non-existence  of  modes  of 
expression  and  condemns  "any  attempt  at  an  aesthetic  classifica- 
tion of  the  arts  as  absurd"  and  thus  a  fortiori  rejects  all  distinc- 
tion between  genres  or  types.13  Nor  is  much  gained  for  our 
problem  by  John  Dewey's  insistence,  in  his  Art  as  Experience 
(1934),  that  there  is  a  common  substance  among  the  arts  be- 
cause there  are  "general  conditions  without  which  an  experience 
is  not  possible."  14  No  doubt,  there  is  a  common  denominator  in 
the  act  of  all  artistic  creation  or,  for  that  matter,  in  all  human 
creation,  activity,  and  experience.  But  these  are  solutions  which 
do  not  help  us  in  comparing  the  arts.  More  concretely,  Theodore 
Meyer  Greene  defines  the  comparable  elements  of  the  arts  as 
complexity,  integration,  and  rhythm,  and  he  argues  eloquently, 
as  John  Dewey  had  done  before  him,  for  the  applicability  of  the 
term  "rhythm"  to  the  plastic  arts.15  It  seems,  however,  impos- 
sible to  overcome  the  profound  distinction  between  the  rhythm 
of  a  piece  of  music  and  the  rhythm  of  a  colonnade,  where  neither 
the  order  nor  the  tempo  is  imposed  by  the  structure  of  the  work 
itself.  Complexity  and  integration  are  merely  other  terms  for 
"variety"  and  "unity"  and  thus  of  only  very  limited  use.  Few 
concrete  attempts  to  arrive  at  such  common  denominators  among 
the  arts  on  a  structural  basis  have  gone  any  further.  G.  D. 
BirkhofF,  a  Harvard  mathematician,  in  a  book  on  Aesthetic 
Measure,16  has  with  apparent  success  tried  to  find  a  common 
mathematical  basis  for  simple  art  forms  and  music  and  he  has 
included  a  study  of  the  "musicality"  of  verse  which  is  also  de- 
fined in  mathematical  equations  and  coefficients.  But  the  problem 
of  euphony  in  verse  cannot  be  solved  in  isolation  from  meaning, 
and  BirkhofPs  high  grades  for  poems  by  Edgar  Allan  Poe 
seem  to  confirm  such  an  assumption.  His  ingenious  attempt,  if 
accepted,  would  tend  rather  to  widen  the  gulf  between  the  essen- 
tially "literary"  qualities  of  poetry  and  the  other  arts  which 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  1 3 1 

share  much  more  fully  in  "aesthetic  measure"  than  literature. 

The  problem  of  the  parallelism  of  the  arts  early  suggested 
the  application  to  literature  of  style-concepts  arrived  at  in  the 
history  of  the  arts.  In  the  eighteenth  century,  innumerable  com- 
parisons were  made  between  the  structure  of  Spenser's  Faerie 
Queene  and  the  glorious  disorder  of  a  Gothic  cathedral.17  In 
The  Decline  of  the  West,  analogizing  all  the  arts  of  a  culture, 
Spengler  speaks  of  the  "visible  chamber  music  of  the  bent  fur- 
niture, the  mirror  rooms,  pastorals  and  porcelain  groups  of  the 
eighteenth  century,"  mentions  the  "Titian  style  of  the  mad- 
rigal," and  refers  to  the  "allegro  feroce  of  Franz  Hals  and  the 
andante  con  moto  of  Van  Dyck."  18  In  Germany  this  mode  of 
analogizing  the  arts  has  incited  copious  writing  on  the  Gothic 
man  and  the  spirit  of  the  Baroque,  has  led  to  the  literary  use 
of  the  terms  "Rococo"  and  "Biedermeier."  In  the  periodization 
of  literature,  the  clearly  worked-out  sequence  of  art  styles  of 
Gothic,  Renaissance,  Baroque,  Rococo,  Romanticism,  Bieder- 
meier, Realism,  Impressionism,  Expressionism  has  impressed 
literary  historians  and  has  imposed  itself  also  on  literature.  The 
styles  named  are  grouped  into  two  main  groups,  presenting  fun- 
damentally the  contrast  between  the  Classical  and  the  Romantic : 
Gothic,  the  Baroque,  Romanticism,  Expressionism  appear  on 
one  line  5  the  Renaissance,  Neo-Classicism,  Realism  on  the  other. 
Rococo,  Biedermeier,  can  be  interpreted  as  late  decadent,  florid 
variations  of  the  preceding  styles — respectively  Baroque  and 
Romanticism.  Frequently  the  parallelisms  are  pressed  very 
hard  j  and  it  is  easy  to  pick  out  absurdities  from  the  writings  of 
even  the  most  reputable  scholars  who  have  indulged  in  the 
method.19 

The  most  concrete  attempt  to  transfer  the  categories  of  art 
history  to  literature  is  Oskar  Walzel's  application  of  Wolfflin's 
criteria.  In  his  Principles  of  Art  History,20  Wolmin  distin- 
guished, on  purely  structural  grounds,  between  Renaissance  and 
Baroque  art.  He  constructed  a  scheme  of  contraries  applicable  to 
any  kind  of  picture,  piece  of  sculpture,  or  specimen  of  architec- 
ture in  the  period.  Renaissance  art,  he  held,  is  "linear,"  while 
Baroque  art  is  "painterly."  "Linear"  suggests  that  the  outlines 
of  figures  and  objects  are  drawn  clearly,  while  "painterly"  means 
that  light  and  color,  which  blur  the  outlines  of  objects,  are  them- 


132  Theory  of  Literature 

selves  the  principles  of  composition.  Renaissance  painting  and 
sculpture  use  a  "closed"  form,  a  symmetrical,  balanced  group- 
ing of  figures  or  surfaces,  while  Baroque  prefers  an  "open"  form, 
an  unsymmetrical  composition  which  puts  emphasis  on  a  corner 
of  a  picture  rather  than  its  center,  or  even  points  beyond  the 
frame  of  the  picture.  Renaissance  pictures  are  "flat"  or,  at  least, 
composed  on  different  recessive  planes,  while  Baroque  pictures 
are  "deep"  or  seem  to  lead  the  eye  into  a  distant  and  indistinct 
background.  Renaissance  pictures  are  "multiple"  in  the  sense  of 
having  clearly  distinct  parts;  Baroque  works  are  "unified," 
highly  integrated,  closely  knit.  Renaissance  works  of  art  are 
"clear,"  while  Baroque  works  are  relatively  "unclear,"  blurred, 
indistinct. 

Wolfflin  demonstrated  his  conclusions  by  an  admirably  sensi- 
tive analysis  of  concrete  works  of  art  and  suggested  the  neces- 
sity of  the  progression  from  the  Renaissance  to  the  Baroque. 
Certainly  their  sequence  cannot  be  inverted.  Wolfflin  offers  no 
causal  explanation  of  the  process,  except  that  he  suggests  a 
change  in  the  "manner  of  seeing,"  a  process  which,  however, 
hardly  can  be  thought  of  as  purely  physiological.  This  view, 
with  its  stress  on  changes  in  the  "manner  of  seeing,"  on  the 
purely  structural,  compositional  changes,  goes  back  to  the  theo- 
ries of  Fiedler  and  Hildebrand  concerning  pure  visibility,  and 
is  ultimately  derived  from  Zimmermann,  an  Herbartian  aesthe- 
tician.21  But  Wolfflin  himself,  especially  in  later  pronounce- 
ments,22 recognized  the  limitations  of  his  method  and  by  no 
means  thought  that  his  history  of  forms  had  exhausted  all  the 
problems  of  art  history.  Even  early  he  admitted  "personal"  and 
"local"  styles  and  saw  that  his  types  could  be  found  elsewhere 
than  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  though  in  a  less 
clearly  defined  form. 

In  19 1 6,  fresh  from  the  reading  of  the  Principles  of  Art  His- 
tory, Walzel  attempted  to  transfer  Wolfflin's  categories  to  lit- 
erature.23 Studying  the  composition  of  Shakespeare's  plays,  he 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  Shakespeare  belongs  to  the  Baroque, 
since  his  plays  are  not  built  in  the  symmetrical  manner  found  by 
Wolfflin  in  pictures  of  the  Renaissance.  The  number  of  minor 
characters,  their  unsymmetrical  grouping,  the  varying  emphasis 
on  different  acts  of  the  play:  all  these  characteristics  are  supposed 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  133 

to  show  that  Shakespeare's  technique  is  the  same  as  that  of 
Baroque  art,  while  Corneille  and  Racine,  who  composed  their 
tragedies  around  one  central  figure  and  distributed  the  emphasis 
among  the  acts  according  to  a  traditional  Aristotelian  pattern, 
are  assigned  to  the  Renaissance  type.  In  a  little  book,  Wechsel- 
seitige  Erhellung  der  Kiinste,  and  in  many  later  writings,24 
Walzel  tried  to  elaborate  and  justify  this  transfer,  at  first  rather 
modestly  and  then  with  increasingly  extravagant  claims. 

Some  of  Wolfflin's  categories  can  clearly  and  rather  easily  be 
reformulated  in  literary  terms.  There  is  an  obvious  opposition 
between  an  art  which  prefers  clear  outlines  and  distinct  parts 
and  an  art  with  looser  composition  and  blurred  outlines.  Fritz 
Strich's  attempt  to  describe  the  opposition  between  German 
Classicism  and  Romanticism  by  applying  Wolfflin's  categories 
devised  for  the  Renaissance  and  Baroque  shows  that  these  cate- 
gories, liberally  interpreted,  can  restate  the  old  oppositions  be- 
tween the  perfect  Classical  poem  and  the  unfinished,  frag- 
mentary, or  blurred  Romantic  poetry.25  But  we  are  then  left  with 
only  one  set  of  contraries  for  all  the  history  of  literature.  Even 
reformulated  in  strictly  literary  terms,  Wolfflin's  categories  help 
us  merely  to  arrange  works  of  art  into  two  categories  which, 
when  examined  in  detail,  amount  only  to  the  old  distinction  be- 
tween classic  and  romantic,  severe  and  loose  structure,  plastic 
and  picturesque  art :  a  dualism  which  was  known  to  the  Schlegels 
and  to  Schelling  and  Coleridge  and  was  arrived  at  by  them 
through  ideological  and  literary  arguments.  Wolfflin's  one  set  of 
contraries  manages  to  group  all  Classical  and  pseudo-Classical 
art  together,  on  the  one  hand,  and  on  the  other  to  combine 
very  divergent  movements  such  as  the  Gothic,  the  Baroque,  and 
Romanticism.  This  theory  appears  to  obscure  the  undoubted  and 
extremely  important  continuity  between  the  Renaissance  and 
Baroque,  just  as  its  application  to  German  literature  by  Strich 
makes  an  artificial  contrast  between  the  pseudo-Classical  stage  in 
the  development  of  Schiller  and  Goethe  and  the  Romantic 
movement  of  the  early  nineteenth  century,  while  it  must  leave 
the  "Storm  and  Stress"  unexplained  and  incomprehensible.  Ac- 
tually, German  literature  at  the  turn  of  the  eighteenth  and 
nineteenth  centuries  forms  a  comparative  unity  which  it  seems 
absurd  to   break  up   into   an   irreconcilable   antithesis.   Thus, 


134  Theory  of  Literature 

Wolfflin's  theory  may  help  us  in  classifying  works  of  art  and 
establishing  or  rather  confirming  the  old  action-reaction,  con- 
vention-revolt, or  seesaw  type  of  dualistic  evolutionary  scheme, 
which,  however,  confronted  with  the  reality  of  the  complex 
process  of  literature,  falls  far  short  of  coping  with  the  highly 
diversified  pattern  of  the  actual  development. 

The  transfer  of  Wolfflin's  pairs  of  concepts  also  leaves  one 
important  problem  completely  unsolved.  We  cannot  explain  in 
any  way  the  undoubted  fact  that  the  arts  did  not  evolve  with 
the  same  speed  at  the  same  time.  Literature  seems  sometimes  to 
linger  behind  the  arts:  for  instance,  we  can  scarcely  speak  of  an 
English  literature  when  the  great  English  cathedrals  were  being 
built.  At  other  times  music  lags  behind  literature  and  the  other 
arts:  for  instance,  we  cannot  speak  of  "Romantic"  music  before 
1800,  while  much  Romantic  poetry  preceded  that  date.  We  have 
difficulty  in  accounting  for  the  fact  that  there  was  "picturesque" 
poetry  at  least  sixty  years  before  the  picturesque  invaded  archi- 
tecture 26  or  for  the  fact,  mentioned  by  Burckhardt,27  that 
Nencia,  the  description  of  peasant  life  by  Lorenzo  Magnifico, 
preceded  by  some  eighty  years  the  first  genre  pictures  of  Jacopo 
Bassano  and  his  school.  Even  if  these  few  examples  were 
wrongly  chosen  and  could  be  refuted,  they  raise  a  question  which 
cannot  be  answered  by  an  over-simple  theory  according  to  which, 
let  us  say,  music  is  always  lagging  by  a  generation  after  poetry.28 
Obviously  a  correlation  with  social  factors  should  be  attempted, 
and  these  factors  will  vary  in  every  single  instance. 

We  are  finally  confronted  with  the  problem  that  certain  times 
or  nations  were  extremely  productive  only  in  one  or  two  arts, 
while  either  completely  barren  or  merely  imitative  and  derivative 
in  others.  The  flowering  of  Elizabethan  literature,  which  was  not 
accompanied  by  any  comparable  flowering  of  the  fine  arts,  is  a 
case  in  point ;  and  little  is  gained  by  speculations  to  the  effect  that 
the  "national  soul,"  in  some  way,  concentrated  on  one  art  or  that, 
as  Emile  Legouis  phrases  it  in  his  History  of  English  Literature, 
"Spenser  would  have  become  a  Titian  or  Veronese  had  he  been 
born  in  Italy  or  a  Rubens  or  Rembrandt  in  the  Netherlands."  29 
In  the  case  of  English  literature  it  is  easy  to  suggest  that  Puri- 
tanism was  responsible  for  the  neglect  of  the  fine  arts,  but  that  is 
scarcely  enough  to  account  for  the  differences  between  the  pro- 


Literature  and  the  Other  Arts  135 

ductivity  in  very  secular  literature  and  the  comparative  barren- 
ness in  painting.  But  all  this  leads  us  far  afield  into  concrete  his- 
torical questions. 

The  various  arts — the  plastic  arts,  literature,  and  music — have 
each  their  individual  evolution,  with  a  different  tempo  and  a  dif- 
ferent internal  structure  of  elements.  No  doubt  they  are  in  con- 
stant relationship  with  each  other,  but  these  relationships  are  not 
influences  which  start  from  one  point  and  determine  the  evolu- 
tion of  the  other  arts ;  they  have  to  be  conceived  rather  as  a  com- 
plex scheme  of  dialectical  relationships  which  work  both  ways, 
from  one  art  to  another  and  vice  versa,  and  may  be  completely 
transformed  within  the  art  which  they  have  entered.  It  is  not  a 
simple  affair  of  a  "time  spirit"  determining  and  permeating  each 
and  every  art.  We  must  conceive  of  the  sum  total  of  man's  cul- 
tural activities  as  of  a  whole  system  of  self-evolving  series,  each 
having  its  own  set  of  norms  which  are  not  necessarily  identical 
with  those  of  the  neighboring  series.  The  task  of  art  historians  in 
the  widest  sense,  including  historians  of  literature  and  of  music, 
is  to  evolve  a  descriptive  set  of  terms  in  each  art,  based  on  the 
specific  characteristics  of  each  art.  Thus  poetry  today  needs  a  new 
poetics,  a  technique  of  analysis  which  cannot  be  arrived  at  by  a 
simple  transfer  or  adaptation  of  terms  from  the  fine  arts.  Only 
when  we  have  evolved  a  successful  system  of  terms  for  the  anal- 
ysis of  literary  works  of  art  can  we  delimit  literary  periods,  not 
as  metaphysical  entities  dominated  by  a  "time  spirit."  Having 
established  such  outlines  of  strictly  literary  evolution,  we  then 
can  ask  the  question  whether  this  evolution  is,  in  some  way, 
similar  to  the  similarly  established  evolution  of  the  other  arts. 
The  answer  will  be,  as  we  can  see,  not  a  flat  "yes"  or  "no."  It 
will  take  the  form  of  an  intricate  pattern  of  coincidences  and  di- 
vergences rather  than  parallel  lines. 


IV 

The  Intrinsic  Study  of  Literature 


CHAPTER  XII 

The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art 

The  natural  and  sensible  starting  point  for  work  in  literary 
scholarship  is  the  interpretation  and  analysis  of  the  works  of 
literature  themselves.  After  all,  only  the  works  themselves 
justify  all  our  interest  in  the  life  of  an  author,  in  his  social  en- 
vironment and  the  whole  process  of  literature.  But,  curiously 
enough,  literary  history  has  been  so  preoccupied  with  the  setting 
of  a  work  of  literature  that  its  attempts  at  an  analysis  of  the  works 
themselves  have  been  slight  in  comparison  with  the  enormous 
efforts  expended  on  the  study  of  environment.  Some  reasons  for 
this  overemphasis  on  the  conditioning  circumstances  rather  than 
on  the  works  themselves  are  not  far  to  seek.  Modern  literary 
history  arose  in  close  connection  with  the  Romantic  movement, 
which  could  subvert  the  critical  system  of  Neo-Classicism  only 
with  the  relativist  argument  that  different  times  required  dif- 
ferent standards.  Thus  the  emphasis  shifted  from  the  literature 
itself  to  its  historical  background,  which  was  used  to  justify  the 
new  values  ascribed  to  old  literature.  In  the  nineteenth  century, 
explanation  by  causes  became  the  great  watchword,  largely  in  an 
endeavor  to  emulate  the  methods  of  the  natural  sciences.  Besides, 
the  breakdown  of  the  old  "poetics,"  which  occurred  with  the 
shift  of  interest  to  the  individual  "taste"  of  the  reader, 
strengthened  the  conviction  that  art,  being  fundamentally  irra- 
tional, should  be  left  to  "appreciation."  Sir  Sidney  Lee,  in  his 
inaugural  lecture,  merely  summed  up  the  theory  of  most 
academic  literary  scholarship  when  he  said:  "In  literary  history 
we  seek  the  external  circumstances — political,  social,  economic — 
in  which  literature  is  produced."  x  The  result  of  a  lack  of  clarity 
on  questions  of  poetics  has  been  the  astonishing  helplessness  of 
most  scholars  when  confronted  with  the  task  of  actually  ana- 
lyzing and  evaluating  a  work  of  art. 

In  recent  years  a  healthy  reaction  has  taken  place  which  recog- 

139 


140  Theory  of  Literature 

nizes  that  the  study  of  literature  should,  first  and  foremost,  con- 
centrate on  the  actual  works  of  art  themselves.  The  old  methods 
of  classical  rhetoric,  poetics,  or  metrics  are  and  must  be  reviewed 
and  restated  in  modern  terms.  New  methods  based  on  a  survey 
of  the  wider  range  of  forms  in  modern  literature  are  being  intro- 
duced. In  France  the  method  of  explication  de  textes,2  in  Ger- 
many the  formal  analyses  based  on  parallels  with  the  history  of 
fine  arts,  cultivated  by  Oskar  Walzel,3  and  especially  the  brilliant 
movement  of  the  Russian  formalists  and  their  Czech  and  Polish 
followers  4  have  brought  new  stimuli  to  the  study  of  the  literary 
work,  which  we  are  only  beginning  to  see  properly  and  to  analyze 
adequately.  In  England  some  of  the  followers  of  I.  A.  Richards 
have  paid  close  attention  to  the  text  of  poetry  5  and  also  in  this 
country  a  group  of  critics  have  made  a  study  of  the  work  of  art 
the  center  of  their  interest.6  Several  studies  of  the  drama  7  which 
stress  its  difference  from  life  and  combat  the  confusion  between 
dramatic  and  empirical  reality  point  in  the  same  direction.  Simi- 
larly, many  studies  of  the  novel 8  are  not  content  to  consider  it 
merely  in  terms  of  its  relations  to  the  social  structure  but  try  to 
analyze  its  artistic  methods — its  points  of  view,  its  narrative  tech- 
nique. 

The  Russian  Formalists  most  vigorously  objected  to  the  old 
dichotomy  of  "content  versus  form,"  which  cuts  a  work  of  art 
into  two  halves:  a  crude  content  and  a  superimposed,  purely  ex- 
ternal form.9  Clearly,  the  aesthetic  effect  of  a  work  of  art  does 
not  reside  in  what  is  commonly  called  its  content.  There  are  few 
works  of  art  which  are  not  ridiculous  or  meaningless  in  synopsis 
(which  can  be  justified  only  as  a  pedagogical  device).10  But  a 
distinction  between  form  as  the  factor  aesthetically  active  and  a 
content  aesthetically  indifferent  meets  with  insuperable  diffi- 
culties. At  first  sight  the  boundary  line  may  seem  fairly  definite. 
If  we  understand  by  content  the  ideas  and  emotions  conveyed  in 
a  work  of  literature,  the  form  would  include  all  linguistic  ele- 
ments by  which  contents  are  expressed.  But  if  we  examine  this 
distinction  more  closely,  we  see  that  content  implies  some  ele- 
ments of  form:  e.g.,  the  events  told  in  a  novel  are  parts  of  the 
content,  while  the  way  in  which  they  are  arranged  into  a  "plot" 
is  part  of  the  form.  Dissociated  from  this  way  of  arrangement 
they  have  no  artistic  effect  whatsoever.  The  common  remedy  pro- 


The  Analysts  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  141 

posed  and  widely  used  by  Germans,  i.e.,  the  introduction  of  the 
term  "inner  form,"  which  originally  dates  back  to  Plotinus  and 
Shaftesbury,  is  merely  complicating  matters,  as  the  boundary 
line  between  inner  and  outer  form  remains  completely  obscure. 
It  must  simply  be  admitted  that  the  manner  in  which  events  are 
arranged  in  a  plot  is  part  of  the  form.  Things  become  even  more 
disastrous  for  the  traditional  concepts  when  we  realize  that  even 
in  the  language,  commonly  considered  part  of  the  form,  it  is 
necessary  to  distinguish  between  words  in  themselves,  aestheti- 
cally indifferent,  and  the  manner  in  which  individual  words 
make  up  units  of  sound  and  meaning,  aesthetically  effective.  It 
would  be  better  to  rechristen  all  the  aesthetically  indifferent 
elements  "materials,"  while  the  manner  in  which  they  acquire 
aesthetic  efficacy  may  be  styled  "structure."  This  distinction  is  by 
no  means  a  simple  renaming  of  the  old  pair,  content  and  form. 
It  cuts  right  across  the  old  boundary  lines.  "Materials"  include 
elements  formerly  considered  part  of  the  content,  and  parts  for- 
merly considered  formal.  "Structure"  is  a  concept  including  both 
content  and  form  so  far  as  they  are  organized  for  aesthetic  pur- 
poses. The  work  of  art  is,  then,  considered  as  a  whole  system  of 
signs,  or  structure  of  signs,  serving  a  specific  aesthetic  purpose. 

How,  more  concretely,  can  we  envisage  an  analysis  of  this 
structure?  What  is  meant  by  this  totality,  and  how  can  it  be 
analyzed?  What  is  meant  by  saying  that  an  analysis  is  wrong  or 
mistaken?  This  raises  an  extremely  difficult  epistemological  ques- 
tion, that  of  the  "mode  of  existence"  or  the  "ontological  situs" 
of  a  literary  work  of  art  (which,  for  brevity's  sake,  we  shall  call 
a  "poem"  in  what  follows).11  What  is  the  "real"  poem;  where 
should  we  look  for  it;  how  does  it  exist?  A  correct  answer  to 
these  questions  must  solve  several  critical  problems  and  open  a 
way  to  the  proper  analysis  of  a  work  of  literature. 

To  the  question  what  and  where  is  a  poem,  or  rather  a  literary 
work  of  art  in  general,  several  traditional  answers  have  been 
given  which  must  be  criticized  and  eliminated  before  we  can  at- 
tempt an  answer  of  our  own.  One  of  the  most  common  and  oldest 
answers  is  the  view  that  a  poem  is  an  "artifact,"  an  object  of  the 
same  nature  as  a  piece  of  sculpture  or  a  painting.  Thus  the  work 
of  art  is  considered  identical  with  the  black  lines  of  ink  on  white 
paper  or  parchment  or,  if  we  think  of  a  Babylonian  poem,  with 


142  Theory  of  Literature 

the  grooves  in  the  brick.  Obviously  this  answer  is  quite  unsatis- 
factory. There  is,  first  of  all,  the  huge  oral  "literature."  There 
are  poems  or  stories  which  have  never  been  fixed  in  writing  and 
still  continue  to  exist.  Thus  the  lines  in  black  ink  are  merely  a 
method  of  recording  a  poem  which  must  be  conceived  as  existing 
elsewhere.  If  we  destroy  the  writing  or  even  all  copies  of  a 
printed  book  we  still  may  not  destroy  the  poem,  as  it  might  be 
preserved  in  oral  tradition  or  in  the  memory  of  a  man  like 
Macaulay,  who  boasted  of  knowing  Paradise  Lost  and  Pilgrim's 
Progress  by  heart.  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  destroy  a  painting 
or  a  piece  of  sculpture  or  a  building,  we  destroy  it  completely, 
though  we  may  preserve  descriptions  or  records  in  another  me- 
dium and  might  even  try  to  reconstruct  what  has  been  lost.  But 
we  shall  always  create  a  different  work  of  art  (however  similar), 
while  the  mere  destruction  of  the  copy  of  a  book  or  even  of  all 
its  copies  may  not  touch  the  work  of  art  at  all. 

That  the  writing  on  the  paper  is  not  the  "real"  poem  can  be 
demonstrated  also  by  another  argument.  The  printed  page  con- 
tains a  great  many  elements  which  are  extraneous  to  the  poem: 
the  size  of  the  type,  the  sort  of  type  used  (roman,  italic),  the 
size  of  the  page,  and  many  other  factors.  If  we  should  take  seri- 
ously the  view  that  a  poem  is  an  artifact,  we  would  have  to  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  every  single  copy  is  a  different  work  of  art. 
There  would  be  no  a  friori  reason  why  copies  in  different  edi- 
tions should  be  copies  of  the  same  book.  Besides,  not  every  print- 
ing is  considered  by  us,  the  readers,  a  correct  printing  of  a  poem. 
The  very  fact  that  we  are  able  to  correct  printer's  errors  in  a  text 
which  we  might  not  have  read  before  or,  in  some  rare  cases, 
restore  the  genuine  meaning  of  the  text  shows  that  we  do  not 
consider  the  printed  lines  as  the  genuine  poem.  Thus  we  have 
shown  that  the  poem  (or  any  literary  work  of  art)  can  exist  out- 
side its  printed  version  and  that  the  printed  artifact  contains 
many  elements  which  we  all  must  consider  as  not  included  in  the 
genuine  poem. 

Still,  this  negative  conclusion  should  not  blind  us  to  the 
enormous  practical  importance,  since  the  invention  of  writing  and 
printing,  of  our  methods  of  recording  poetry.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  much  literature  has  been  lost  and  thus  completely  destroyed 
because  its  written  records  have  disappeared  and  the  theoretically 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  143 

possible  means  of  oral  tradition  have  failed  or  have  been  inter- 
rupted. Writing  and  especially  printing  have  made  possible  the 
continuity  of  literary  tradition  and  must  have  done  much  to  in- 
crease the  unity  and  integrity  of  works  of  art.  Besides,  at  least  in 
certain  periods  of  the  history  of  poetry,  the  graphic  picture  has 
become  a  part  of  some  finished  works  of  art. 

In  Chinese  poetry,  as  Ernest  Fenollosa  has  shown,  the  pic- 
torial ideograms  form  a  part  of  the  total  meaning  of  the  poems. 
But  also  in  the  Western  tradition  there  are  the  graphic  poems 
of  the  Greek  Anthology,  the  "Altar"  or  the  "Church-floor"  of 
George  Herbert,  and  similar  poems  of  the  Metaphysicals  which 
can  be  paralleled  on  the  Continent  in  Spanish  Gongorism,  Italian 
Marinism,  in  German  Baroque  poetry,  and  elsewhere.  Also 
modern  poetry  in  America  (e.  e.  cummings),  in  Germany 
(Arno  Holz),  in  France  (Apollinaire),  and  elsewhere  has  used 
graphic  devices  like  unusual  line  arrangements  or  even  begin- 
nings at  the  bottom  of  the  page,  different  colors  of  printing,  etc.12 
In  the  novel  Tristram  Shandy,  Sterne  used,  as  far  back  as  the 
eighteenth  century,  blank  and  marbled  pages.  All  such  devices 
are  integral  parts  of  these  particular  works  of  art.  Though  we 
know  that  a  majority  of  poetry  is  independent  of  them,  they  can- 
not and  should  not  be  ignored  in  those  cases. 

Besides,  the  role  of  print  in  poetry  is  by  no  means  confined  to 
such  comparatively  rare  extravaganzas ;  the  line-ends  of  verses, 
the  grouping  into  stanzas,  the  paragraphs  of  prose  passages,  eye- 
rhymes  or  puns  which  are  comprehensible  only  through  spelling, 
and  many  similar  devices  must  be  considered  integral  factors  of 
literary  works  of  art.  A  purely  oral  theory  tends  to  exclude  all 
considerations  of  such  devices,  but  they  cannot  be  ignored  in  any 
complete  analysis  of  many  works  of  literary  art.  Their  existence 
merely  proves  that  print  has  become  very  important  for  the  prac- 
tice of  poetry  in  modern  times,  that  poetry  is  written  for  the  eye 
as  well  as  for  the  ear.  Though  the  use  of  graphic  devices  is  not 
indispensable,  they  are  far  more  frequent  in  literature  than  in 
music,  where  the  printed  score  is  in  a  position  similar  to  the 
printed  page  in  poetry.  In  music  such  uses  are  rare,  though  by  no 
means  non-existent.  There  are  many  curious  optical  devices 
(colors,  etc.)  in  Italian  madrigal  scores  of  the  sixteenth  century. 
The  supposedly  "pure"  composer  Handel  wrote  a  chorus  speak- 


144  Theory  of  Literature 

ing  of  the  Red  Sea  flood  where  the  "water  stood  like  a  wall,"  and 
the  notes  on  the  printed  page  of  music  form  firm  rows  of  evenly 
spaced  dots  suggesting  a  phalanx  or  wall.13 

We  have  started  with  a  theory  which  probably  has  not  many 
serious  adherents  today.  The  second  answer  to  our  question  puts 
the  essence  of  a  literary  work  of  art  into  the  sequence  of  sounds 
uttered  by  a  speaker  or  reader  of  poetry.  This  is  a  widely  accepted 
solution  favored  especially  by  reciters.  But  the  answer  is  equally 
unsatisfactory.  Every  reading  aloud  or  reciting  of  a  poem  is 
merely  a  performance  of  a  poem  and  not  the  poem  itself.  It  is 
on  exactly  the  same  level  as  the  performance  of  a  piece  of  music 
by  a  musician.  There  is — to  follow  the  line  of  our  previous  argu- 
ment— a  huge  written  literature  which  may  never  be  sounded  at 
all.  To  deny  this,  we  have  to  subscribe  to  some  such  absurd 
theory  as  that  of  some  behaviorists  that  all  silent  reading  is  ac- 
companied by  movements  of  the  vocal  cords.  Actually,  all  ex- 
perience shows  that,  unless  we  are  almost  illiterate  or  are  strug- 
gling with  the  reading  of  a  foreign  language  or  want  to  articu- 
late the  sound  whisperingly  on  purpose,  we  usually  read  "glob- 
ally," that  is,  we  grasp  printed  words  as  wholes  without  breaking 
them  up  into  sequences  of  phonemes  and  thus  do  not  pronounce 
them  even  silently.  In  reading  quickly  we  have  no  time  even  to 
articulate  the  sounds  with  our  vocal  cords.  To  assume  besides  that 
a  poem  exists  in  the  reading  aloud  leads  to  the  absurd  conse- 
quence that  a  poem  is  non-existent  when  it  is  not  sounded  and 
that  it  is  recreated  afresh  by  every  reading.  Moreover,  we  could 
not  show  how  a  work  like  Homer's  Iliad  y  or  Tolstoy's  War  and 
Peace,  exists  as  a  unity,  as  it  can  never  be  read  aloud  all  in  one 
sitting. 

But  most  importantly,  every  reading  of  a  poem  is  more  than 
the  genuine  poem:  each  performance  contains  elements  which 
are  extraneous  to  the  poem  and  individual  idiosyncrasies  of  pro- 
nunciation, pitch,  tempo,  and  distribution  of  stress — elements 
which  are  either  determined  by  the  personality  of  the  speaker  or 
are  symptoms  and  means  of  his  interpretation  of  the  poem. 
Moreover,  the  reading  of  a  poem  not  only  adds  individual  ele- 
ments but  always  represents  only  a  selection  of  factors  implicit 
in  the  text  of  a  poem:  the  pitch  of  the  voice,  the  speed  in  which  a 
passage  is  read,  the  distribution  and  intensity  of  the  stresses,  these 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  145 

may  be  either  right  or  wrong,  and  even  when  right,  may  still 
represent  only  one  version  of  reading  a  poem.  We  must  acknowl- 
edge the  possibility  of  several  readings  of  a  poem:  readings 
which  we  either  consider  wrong  readings,  if  we  feel  them  to  be 
distortions  of  the  true  meaning  of  the  poem,  or  readings  which 
we  have  to  consider  as  correct  and  admissible,  but  still  may  not 
consider  ideal. 

The  reading  of  the  poem  is  not  the  poem  itself,  for  we  can 
correct  the  performance  mentally.  Even  if  we  hear  a  recitation 
which  we  acknowledge  to  be  excellent  or  perfect,  we  cannot  pre- 
clude the  possibility  that  somebody  else,  or  even  the  same  reciter 
at  another  time,  may  give  a  very  different  rendering  which  would 
bring  out  other  elements  of  the  poem  equally  well.  The  analogy 
to  a  musical  performance  is  again  helpful:  the  performance  of  a 
symphony  even  by  a  Toscanini  is  not  the  symphony  itself,  for  it 
is  inevitably  colored  by  the  individuality  of  the  performers  and 
adds  concrete  details  of  tempo,  rubato,  timbre,  etc.,  which  may  be 
changed  in  a  next  performance,  though  it  would  be  impossible  to 
deny  that  the  same  symphony  has  been  performed  for  the  second 
time.  Thus  we  have  shown  that  the  poem  can  exist  outside  its 
sounded  performance,  and  that  the  sounded  performance  con- 
tains many  elements  which  we  must  consider  as  not  included  in 
the  poem. 

Still,  in  some  literary  works  of  art  (especially  in  lyrical  poetry) 
the  vocal  side  of  poetry  may  be  an  important  factor  of  the  gen- 
eral structure.  Attention  can  be  drawn  to  it  by  various  means  like 
meter,  patterns  of  vowel  or  consonant  sequences,  alliteration, 
assonance,  rhyme,  etc.  This  fact  explains — or  rather  helps  to  ex- 
plain— the  inadequacy  of  much  translating  of  lyrical  poetry,  since 
these  potential  sound-patterns  cannot  be  transferred  into  another 
linguistic  system,  though  a  skillful  translator  may  approximate 
their  general  effect  in  his  own  language.  There  is,  however,  an 
enormous  literature  which  is  relatively  independent  of  sound- 
patterns,  as  can  be  shown  by  the  historical  effects  of  many  works 
in  even  pedestrian  translations.  Sound  may  be  an  important  fac- 
tor in  the  structure  of  a  poem,  but  the  answer  that  a  poem  is  a 
sequence  of  sounds  is  as  unsatisfactory  as  the  solution  which  puts 
faith  in  the  print  on  the  page. 

The  third,  very  common  answer  to  our  question  says  that  a 


146  Theory  of  Literature 

poem  is  the  experience  of  the  reader.  A  poem,  it  is  argued,  is 
nothing  outside  the  mental  processes  of  individual  readers  and  is 
thus  identical  with  the  mental  state  or  process  which  we  experi- 
ence in  reading  or  listening  to  a  poem.  Again,  this  "psycho- 
logical" solution  seems  unsatisfactory.  It  is  true,  of  course,  that 
a  poem  can  be  known  only  through  individual  experiences,  but 
it  is  not  identical  with  such  an  individual  experience.  Every  indi- 
vidual experience  of  a  poem  contains  something  idiosyncratic 
and  purely  individual.  It  is  colored  by  our  mood  and  our  indi- 
vidual preparation.  The  education,  the  personality  of  every 
reader,  the  general  cultural  climate  of  a  time,  the  religious  or 
philosophical  or  purely  technical  preconceptions  of  every  reader 
will  add  something  instantaneous  and  extraneous  to  every  read- 
ing of  a  poem.  Two  readings  at  different  times  by  the  same  indi- 
vidual may  vary  considerably  either  because  he  has  matured 
mentally  or  because  he  is  weakened  by  momentary  circumstances 
such  as  fatigue,  worry,  or  distraction.  Every  experience  of  a 
poem  thus  both  leaves  out  something  or  adds  something  indi- 
vidual. The  experience  will  never  be  commensurate  with  the 
poem:  even  a  good  reader  will  discover  new  details  in  poems 
which  he  had  not  experienced  during  previous  readings,  and  it 
is  needless  to  point  out  how  distorted  or  shallow  may  be  the 
reading  of  a  less  trained  or  untrained  reader. 

The  view  that  the  mental  experience  of  a  reader  is  the  poem 
itself  leads  to  the  absurd  conclusion  that  a  poem  is  non-existent 
unless  experienced  and  that  it  is  recreated  in  every  experience. 
There  thus  would  not  be  one  Divine  Comedy  but  as  many  Divine 
Comedies  as  there  are  and  were  and  will  be  readers.  We  end  in 
complete  skepticism  and  anarchy  and  arrive  at  the  vicious  maxim 
of  De  gustibus  non  est  disfutandum.  If  we  should  take  this  view 
seriously,  it  would  be  impossible  to  explain  why  one  experience 
of  a  poem  by  one  reader  should  be  better  than  the  experience  of 
any  other  reader  and  why  it  is  possible  to  correct  the  interpreta- 
tion of  another  reader.  It  would  mean  the  definite  end  of  all 
teaching  of  literature  which  aims  at  enhancing  the  understanding 
and  appreciation  of  a  text.  The  writings  of  I.  A.  Richards, 
especially  his  book  on  Practical  Criticism-,  have  shown  how  much 
can  be  done  in  analyzing  the  individual  idiosyncrasies  of  readers 
and  how  much  a  good  teacher  can  achieve  in  rectifying  false  ap- 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  147 

proaches.  Curiously  enough,  Richards,  who  constantly  criticizes 
the  experiences  of  his  pupils,  holds  to  an  extreme  psychological 
theory  which  is  in  flat  contradiction  to  his  excellent  critical  prac- 
tice. The  idea  that  poetry  is  supposed  to  order  our  impulses  and 
the  conclusion  that  the  value  of  poetry  is  in  some  sort  of  psychical 
therapy  lead  him  finally  to  the  admission  that  this  goal  may  be 
accomplished  by  a  bad  as  well  as  a  good  poem,  by  a  carpet,  a  pot, 
a  gesture  as  well  as  by  a  sonata.14  Thus  the  supposed  pattern  in 
our  mind  is  not  definitely  related  to  the  poem  which  caused  it. 

The  psychology  of  the  reader,  however  interesting  in  itself 
or  useful  for  pedagogical  purposes,  will  always  remain  outside 
the  object  of  literary  study — the  concrete  work  of  art — and  is 
unable  to  deal  with  the  question  of  the  structure  and  value  of 
the  work  of  art.  Psychological  theories  must  be  theories  of  effect 
and  may  lead  in  extreme  cases  to  such  criteria  of  the  value  of 
poetry  as  that  proposed  by  A.  E.  Housman  in  a  lecture,  The 
Name  and  Nature  of  Poetry  (1933),  where  he  tells  us,  one 
hopes  with  his  tongue  in  his  cheek,  that  good  poetry  can  be  recog- 
nized by  the  thrill  down  our  spine.  This  is  on  the  same  level  as 
eighteenth-century  theories  which  measured  the  quality  of  a 
tragedy  by  the  amount  of  tears  shed  by  the  audience  or  the  movie 
scout's  conception  of  the  quality  of  a  comedy  on  the  basis  of  the 
number  of  laughs  he  has  counted  in  the  audience.  Thus  anarchy, 
skepticism,  a  complete  confusion  of  values  is  the  result  of  every 
psychological  theory,  as  it  must  be  unrelated  either  to  the  struc- 
ture or  the  quality  of  a  poem. 

The  psychological  theory  is  only  very  slightly  improved  by 
I.  A.  Richards  when  he  defines  a  poem  as  the  "experience  of  the 
right  kind  of  reader."  15  Obviously  the  whole  problem  is  shifted 
to  the  conception  of  the  right  reader — and  the  meaning  of  that 
adjective.  But  even  assuming  an  ideal  condition  of  mood  in  a 
reader  of  the  finest  background  and  the  best  training,  the  defini- 
tion remains  unsatisfactory,  as  it  is  open  to  all  the  criticism  we 
have  made  of  the  psychological  method.  It  puts  the  essence  of 
the  poem  into  a  momentary  experience  which  even  the  right 
kind  of  reader  could  not  repeat  unchanged.  It  will  always  fall 
short  of  the  full  meaning  of  a  poem  at  any  given  instance  and 
will  always  add  inevitable  personal  elements  to  the  reading. 

A  fourth  answer  has  been  suggested  to  obviate  this  difficulty. 


148  Theory  of  Literature 

The  poem,  we  hear,  is  the  experience  of  the  author.  Only  in 
parenthesis,  we  may  dismiss  the  view  that  the  poem  is  the  ex- 
perience of  the  author  at  any  time  of  his  life  after  the  creation  of 
his  work,  when  he  rereads  it.  He  then  has  obviously  become  sim- 
ply a  reader  of  his  work  and  is  liable  to  errors  and  misinterpreta- 
tions of  his  own  work  almost  as  much  as  any  other  reader.  Many 
instances  of  glaring  misinterpretations  by  an  author  of  his  own 
work  could  be  collected:  the  old  anecdote  about  Browning  pro- 
fessing not  to  understand  his  own  poem  has  probably  its  element 
of  truth.  It  happens  to  all  of  us  that  we  misinterpret  or  do  not 
fully  understand  what  we  have  written  some  time  ago.  Thus  the 
suggested  answer  must  refer  to  the  experience  of  the  author  dur- 
ing the  time  of  creation.  By  "experience  of  the  author"  we  might 
mean,  however,  two  different  things:  the  conscious  experience, 
the  intentions  which  the  author  wanted  to  embody  in  his  work, 
or  the  total  conscious  and  unconscious  experience  during  the  pro- 
longed time  of  creation.  The  view  that  the  genuine  poem  is  to  be 
found  in  the  intentions  of  an  author  is  widespread  even  though 
it  is  not  always  explicitly  stated.16  It  justifies  much  historical  re- 
search and  is  at  the  bottom  of  many  arguments  in  favor  of  spe- 
cific interpretations.  However,  for  most  works  of  art  we  have  no 
evidence  to  reconstruct  the  intentions  of  the  author  except  the 
finished  work  itself.  Even  if  we  are  in  possession  of  contemporary 
evidence  in  the  form  of  an  explicit  profession  of  intentions,  such 
a  profession  need  not  be  binding  on  a  modern  observer.  "Inten- 
tions" of  the  author  are  always  "rationalizations,"  commentaries 
which  certainly  must  be  taken  into  account  but  also  must  be 
criticized  in  the  light  of  the  finished  work  of  art.  The  "inten- 
tions" of  an  author  may  go  far  beyond  the  finished  work  of  art: 
they  may  be  merely  pronouncements  of  plans  and  ideals,  while 
the  performance  may  be  either  far  below  or  far  aside  the  mark. 
If  we  could  have  interviewed  Shakespeare  he  probably  would 
have  expressed  his  intentions  in  writing  Hamlet  in  a  way  which 
we  should  find  most  unsatisfactory.  We  would  still  quite  rightly 
insist  on  finding  meanings  in  Hamlet  (and  not  merely  inventing 
them)  which  were  probably  far  from  clearly  formulated  in 
Shakespeare's  conscious  mind. 

Artists  may  be  strongly  influenced  by  a  contemporary  critical 
situation  and  by  contemporary  critical  formulae  while  giving 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  149 

expression  to  their  intentions,  but  the  critical  formulae  them- 
selves might  be  quite  inadequate  to  characterize  their  actual 
artistic  achievement.  The  Baroque  age  is  an  obvious  case  in  point, 
since  a  surprisingly  new  artistic  practice  found  little  expression 
either  in  the  pronouncements  of  the  artists  or  the  comments  of 
the  critics.  A  sculptor  such  as  Bernini  could  lecture  to  the  Paris 
Academy  expounding  the  view  that  his  own  practice  was  in  strict 
conformity  to  that  of  the  ancients  and  Daniel  Adam  Poppel- 
mann,  the  architect  of  that  highly  rococo  building  in  Dresden 
called  the  Zwinger,  wrote  a  whole  pamphlet  in  order  to  demon- 
strate the  strict  agreement  of  his  creation  with  the  purest  prin- 
ciples of  Vitruvius.17  The  metaphysical  poets  had  only  a  few  quite 
inadequate  critical  formulae  (like  "strong  lines")  which  scarcely 
touch  the  actual  novelty  of  their  practice ;  and  medieval  artists 
frequently  had  purely  religious  or  didactic  "intentions"  which 
do  not  even  begin  to  give  expression  to  the  artistic  principles  of 
their  practice.  Divergence  between  conscious  intention  and  actual 
performance  is  a  common  phenomenon  in  the  history  of  litera- 
ture, Zola  sincerely  believed  in  his  scientific  theory  of  the  experi- 
mental novel,  but  actually  produced  highly  melodramatic  and 
symbolic  novels.  Gogol  thought  of  himself  as  a  social  reformer, 
as  a  "geographer"  of  Russia,  while,  in  practice,  he  produced 
novels  and  stories  full  of  fantastic  and  grotesque  creatures  of  his 
imagination.  It  is  simply  impossible  to  rely  on  the  study  of  the 
intentions  of  an  author,  as  they  might  not  even  represent  a  re- 
liable commentary  on  his  work,  and  at  their  best  are  not  more 
than  such  a  commentary.  There  can  be  no  objections  against  the 
study  of  "intention,"  if  we  mean  by  it  merely  a  study  of  the 
integral  work  of  art  directed  towards  the  total  meaning.18  But 
this  use  of  the  term  "intention"  is  different  and  somewhat  mis- 
leading. 

But  also  the  alternative  suggestion — that  the  genuine  poem 
is  in  the  total  experience,  conscious  and  unconscious,  during  the 
time  of  the  creation — is  very  unsatisfactory.  In  practice,  this  con- 
clusion has  the  serious  disadvantage  of  putting  the  problem  into 
a  completely  inaccessible  and  purely  hypothetical  x  which  we 
have  no  means  of  reconstructing  or  even  of  exploring.  Beyond 
this  insurmountable  practical  difficulty,  the  solution  is  also  un- 
satisfactory because  it  puts  the  existence  of  the  poem  into  a  sub- 


150  Theory  of  Literature 

jective  experience  which  already  is  a  thing  of  the  past.  The  ex- 
periences of  the  author  during  creation  ceased  precisely  when  the 
poem  had  begun  to  exist.  If  this  conception  were  right,  we  should 
never  be  able  to  come  into  direct  contact  with  the  work  of  art 
itself,  but  have  constantly  to  make  the  assumption  that  our  ex- 
periences in  reading  the  poem  are  in  some  way  identical  with  the 
long-past  experiences  of  the  author.  E.  M.  Tillyard  in  his  book 
on  Milton  has  tried  to  use  the  idea  that  Paradise  Lost  is  about 
the  state  of  the  author  when  he  wrote  it,  and  could  not,  in  a  long 
and  frequently  irrelevant  exchange  of  arguments  with  C.  S. 
Lewis,  acknowledge  that  Paradise  Lost  is,  first  of  all,  about  Satan 
and  Adam  and  Eve  and  hundreds  and  thousands  of  different 
ideas,  representations,  and  concepts,  *rather  than  about  Milton's 
state  of  mind  during  creation.19  That  the  whole  content  of  the 
poem  was  once  in  contact  with  the  conscious  and  subconscious 
mind  of  Milton  is  perfectly  true;  but  this  state  of  mind  is  in- 
accessible and  might  have  been  filled,  in  those  particular 
moments,  with  millions  of  experiences  of  which  we  cannot  find 
a  trace  in  the  poem  itself.  Taken  literally,  this  whole  solution 
must  lead  to  absurd  speculations  about  the  exact  duration  of  the 
state  of  mind  of  the  creator  and  its  exact  content,  which  might 
include  a  toothache  at  the  moment  of  creation.20  The  whole 
psychological  approach  through  states  of  mind,  whether  of  the 
reader  or  the  listener,  the  speaker  or  the  author,  raises  more 
problems  than  it  can  possibly  solve. 

A  better  way  is  obviously  in  the  direction  of  defining  the  work 
of  art  in  terms  of  social  and  collective  experience.  There  are  two 
possibilities  of  solution,  which,  however,  still  fall  short  of  solv- 
ing our  problem  satisfactorily.  We  may  say  that  the  work  of  art 
is  the  sum  of  all  past  and  possible  experiences  of  the  poem:  a  so- 
lution which  leaves  us  with  an  infinity  of  irrelevant  individual 
experiences,  bad  and  false  readings,  and  perversions.  In  short,  it 
merely  gives  us  the  answer  that  the  poem  is  in  the  state  of  mind 
of  its  reader,  multiplied  by  infinity.  Another  answer  solves  the 
question  by  stating  that  the  genuine  poem  is  the  experience  com- 
mon to  all  the  experiences  of  the  poem.21  But  this  answer  would 
obviously  reduce  the  work  of  art  to  the  common  denominator  of 
all  these  experiences.  This  denominator  must  be  the  lowest  com- 
mon denominator,  the  most  shallow,  most  superficial  and  trivial 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  1 5 1 

experience.  This  solution,  besides  its  practical  difficulties,  would 
completely  impoverish  the  total  meaning  of  a  work  of  art. 

An  answer  to  our  question  in  terms  of  individual  or  social 
psychology  cannot  be  found.  A  poem,  we  have  to  conclude,  is 
not  an  individual  experience  or  a  sum  of  experiences,  but  only  a 
potential  cause  of  experiences.  Definition  in  terms  of  states  of 
mind  fails  because  it  cannot  account  for  the  normative  character 
of  the  genuine  poem,  for  the  simple  fact  that  it  might  be  ex- 
perienced correctly  or  incorrectly.  In  every  individual  experience 
only  a  small  part  can  be  considered  as  adequate  to  the  true  poem. 
Thus,  the  real  poem  must  be  conceived  as  a  structure  of  norms, 
realized  only  partially  in  the  actual  experience  of  its  many 
readers.  Every  single  experience  (reading,  reciting,  and  so  forth) 
is  only  an  attempt — more  or  less  successful  and  complete — to 
grasp  this  set  of  norms  or  standards. 

The  term  "norms"  as  used  here  should  not,  of  course,  be  con- 
fused with  norms  which  are  either  classical  or  romantic,  ethical 
or  political.  The  norms  we  have  in  mind  are  implicit  norms  which 
have  to  be  extracted  from  every  individual  experience  of  a  work 
of  art  and  together  make  up  the  genuine  work  of  art  as  a  whole. 
It  is  true  that  if  we  compare  works  of  art  among  themselves, 
similarities  or  differences  between  these  norms  will  be  ascer- 
tained, and  from  the  similarities  themselves  it  ought  to  be  pos- 
sible to  proceed  to  a  classification  of  works  of  art  according  to 
the  type  of  norms  they  embody.  We  may  finally  arrive  at  theories 
of  genres  and  ultimately  at  theories  of  literature  in  general.  To 
deny  this  as  it  has  been  denied  by  those  who,  with  some  justi- 
fication, stress  the  uniqueness  of  every  work  of  art,  seems  to  push 
the  conception  of  individuality  so  far  that  every  work  of  art 
would  become  completely  isolated  from  tradition  and  thus  finally 
both  incommunicable  and  incomprehensible.  Assuming  that  we 
have  to  start  with  the  analysis  of  an  individual  work  of  art,  we 
still  can  scarcely  deny  that  there  must  be  some  links,  some 
similarities,  some  common  elements  or  factors  which  would  ap- 
proximate two  or  more  given  works  of  art  and  thus  would  open 
the  door  to  a  transition  from  the  analysis  of  one  individual  work 
of  art  to  a  type  such  as  Greek  tragedy  and  hence  to  tragedy  in 
general,  to  literature  in  general,  and  finally  to  some  all-inclusive 
structure  common  to  all  arts. 


152  Theory  of  Literature 

But  this  is  a  further  problem.  We,  however,  have  still  to  de- 
cide where  and  how  these  norms  exist.  A  closer  analysis  of  a  work 
of  art  will  show  that  it  is  best  to  think  of  it  as  not  merely  one 
system  of  norms  but  rather  of  a  system  which  is  made  up  of  sev- 
eral strata,  each  implying  its  own  subordinate  group.  The  Polish 
philosopher,  Roman  Ingarden,  in  an  ingenious  highly  technical 
analysis  of  the  literary  work  of  art,22  has  employed  the  methods 
of  Husserl's  "Phenomenology"  to  arrive  at  such  distinctions  of 
strata.  We  need  not  follow  him  in  every  detail  to  see  that  his 
general  distinctions  are  sound  and  useful:  there  is,  first,  the 
sound-stratum  which  is  not,  of  course,  to  be  confused  with  the 
actual  sounding  of  the  words,  as  our  preceding  argument  must 
have  shown.  Still,  this  pattern  is  indispensable,  as  only  on  the 
basis  of  sounds  can  the  second  stratum  arise:  the  units  of  mean- 
ing. Every  single  word  will  have  its  meaning,  will  combine  into 
units  in  the  context,  into  syntagmas  and  sentence  patterns.  Out 
of  this  syntactic  structure  arises  a  third  stratum,  that  of  the 
objects  represented,  the  "world"  of  a  novelist,  the  characters,  the 
setting.  Ingarden  adds  two  other  strata  which  may  not  have  to 
be  distinguished  as  separable.  The  stratum  of  the  "world"  is  seen 
from  a  particular  viewpoint,  which  is  not  necessarily  stated  but  is 
implied.  An  event  presented  in  literature  can  be,  for  example, 
presented  as  "seen"  or  as  "heard":  even  the  same  event,  for  ex- 
ample, the  banging  of  a  door;  a  character  can  be  seen  in  its 
"inner"  or  "outer"  characteristic  traits.  And  finally,  Ingarden 
speaks  of  a  stratum  of  "metaphysical  qualities"  (the  sublime,  the 
tragic,  the  terrible,  the  holy)  of  which  art  can  give  us  contempla- 
tion. This  stratum  is  not  indispensable,  and  may  be  missing  in 
some  works  of  literature.  Possibly  the  two  last  strata  can  be  in- 
cluded in  the  "world,"  in  the  realm  of  represented  objects.  But 
they  also  suggest  very  real  problems  in  the  analysis  of  literature. 
The  "point  of  view"  has,  at  least  in  the  novel,  received  consid- 
erable attention  since  Henry  James  and  since  Lubbock's  more 
systematic  exposition  of  the  Jamesian  theory  and  practice.  The 
stratum  of  "metaphysical  qualities"  allows  Ingarden  to  reintro- 
duce questions  of  the  "philosophical  meaning"  of  works  of  art 
without  the  risk  of  the  usual  intellectualist  errors. 

It  is  useful  to  illustrate  the  conception  by  the  parallel  which 
can  be  drawn  from  linguistics.  Linguists  such  as  the  Geneva 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  153 

School  and  the  Prague  Linguistic  Circle  carefully  distinguish  be- 
tween langue  and  parole,23  the  system  of  language  and  the  indi- 
vidual speech-act;  and  this  distinction  corresponds  to  that  be- 
tween the  individual  experience  of  the  poem  and  the  poem  as 
such.  The  system  of  language  is  a  collection  of  conventions  and 
norms  whose  workings  and  relations  we  can  observe  and  describe 
as  having  a  fundamental  coherence  and  identity  in  spite  of  very 
different,  imperfect,  or  incomplete  pronouncements  of  individual 
speakers.  In  this  respect  at  least,  a  literary  work  of  art  is  in 
exactly  the  same  position  as  a  system  of  language.  We  as  indi- 
viduals shall  never  realize  it  completely,  for  we  shall  never  use 
our  own  language  completely  and  perfectly.  The  very  same  sit- 
uation is  actually  exhibited  in  every  single  act  of  cognition.  We 
shall  never  know  an  object  in  all  its  qualities,  but  still  we  can 
scarcely  deny  the  identity  of  objects  even  though  we  may  see 
them  from  different  perspectives.  We  always  grasp  some  "struc- 
ture of  determination"  in  the  object  which  makes  the  act  of 
cognition  not  an  act  of  arbitrary  invention  or  subjective  distinc- 
tion but  the  recognition  of  some  norms  imposed  on  us  by  reality. 
Similarly,  the  structure  of  a  work  of  art  has  the  character  of  a 
"duty  which  I  have  to  realize."  I  shall  always  realize  it  im- 
perfectly, but  in  spite  of  some  incompleteness,  a  certain  "struc- 
ture of  determination"  remains,  just  as  in  any  other  object  of 
knowledge.24 

Modern  linguists  have  analyzed  the  potential  sounds  as  pho- 
nemes j  they  can  also  analyze  morphemes  and  syntagmas.  The 
sentence,  for  instance,  can  be  described  not  merely  as  an  ad  hoc 
utterance  but  as  a  syntactic  pattern.  Outside  of  phonemics, 
modern  functional  linguistics  is  still  comparatively  undeveloped; 
but  the  problems,  though  difficult,  are  not  insoluble  or  com- 
pletely new:  they  are  rather  restatements  of  the  morphological 
and  syntactical  questions  as  they  were  discussed  in  older  gram- 
mars. The  analysis  of  a  literary  work  of  art  encounters  parallel 
problems  in  units  of  meaning  and  their  specific  organization  for 
aesthetic  purposes.  Such  problems  as  those  of  poetic  semantics, 
diction,  and  imagery  are  reintroduced  in  a  new  and  more  careful 
statement.  Units  of  meaning,  sentences,  and  sentence  structures 
refer  to  objects,  construct  imaginative  realities  such  as  landscapes, 
interiors,  characters,  actions,  or  ideas.  These  also  can  be  analyzed 


154  Theory  of  Literature 

in  a  way  which  does  not  confuse  them  with  empirical  reality  and 
does  not  ignore  the  fact  that  they  inhere  in  linguistic  structures. 
A  character  in  a  novel  grows  only  out  of  the  units  of  meaning, 
is  made  of  the  sentences  either  pronounced  by  the  figure  or 
pronounced  about  it.  It  has  an  indeterminate  structure  in  com- 
parison with  a  biological  person  who  has  his  coherent  past.25 
These  distinctions  of  strata  have  the  advantage  of  superseding 
the  traditional,  misleading  distinction  between  content  and  form. 
The  content  will  reappear  in  close  contact  with  the  linguistic 
substratum,  in  which  it  is  implied  and  on  which  it  is  dependent. 
But  this  conception  of  the  literary  work  of  art  as  a  stratified 
system  of  norms  still  leaves  undetermined  the  actual  mode  of 
existence  of  this  system.  To  deal  with  this  matter  properly  we 
should  have  to  settle  such  controversies  as  those  of  nominalism 
versus  realism,  mentalism  versus  behaviorism — in  short,  all  the 
chief  problems  of  epistemology.  For  our  purposes,  however,  it 
will  be  sufficient  to  avoid  two  opposites,  extreme  Platonism  and 
extreme  nominalism.  There  is  no  need  to  hypostatize  or  "reify" 
this  system  of  norms,  to  make  it  a  sort  of  archetypal  idea  presid- 
ing over  a  timeless  realm  of  essences.  The  literary  work  of  art 
has  not  the  same  ontological  status  as  the  idea  of  a  triangle,  or 
of  a  number,  or  a  quality  like  "redness."  Unlike  such  "subsis- 
tences," the  literary  work  of  art  is,  first  of  all,  created  at  a  certain 
point  in  time  and,  secondly,  is  subject  to  change  and  even  to  com- 
plete destruction.  In  this  respect  it  rather  resembles  the  system  of 
language,  though  the  exact  moment  of  creation  or  death  is  prob- 
ably much  less  clearly  definable  in  the  case  of  language  than  in 
that  of  the  literary  work  of  art,  usually  an  individual  creation. 
On  the  other  hand,  one  should  recognize  that  an  extreme 
nominalism  which  rejects  the  concept  of  a  "system  of  language" 
and  thus  of  a  work  of  art  in  our  sense,  or  admits  it  only  as  a 
useful  fiction  or  a  "scientific  description,"  misses  the  whole  prob- 
lem and  the  point  at  issue.  The  narrow  assumptions  of  behavior- 
ism define  anything  to  be  "mystical"  or  "metaphysical"  which 
does  not  conform  to  a  very  limited  conception  of  empirical  real- 
ity. Yet  to  call  the  phoneme  a  "fiction,"  or  the  system  of  lan- 
guage merely  a  "scientific  description  of  speech-acts,"  is  to  ignore 
the  problem  of  truth.26  We  recognize  norms  and  deviations 
from  norms  and  do  not  merely  devise  some  purely  verbal  de- 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  155 

scriptions.  The  whole  behaviorist  point  o£  view  is,  in  this  respect, 
based  on  a  bad  theory  of  abstraction.  Numbers  or  norms  are  what 
they  are,  whether  we  construct  them  or  not.  Certainly  I  perform 
the  counting,  I  perform  the  reading;  but  number  presentation 
or  recognition  of  a  norm  is  not  the  same  as  the  number  or  norm 
itself.  The  pronouncement  of  the  sound  h  is  not  the  phoneme  h. 
We  recognize  a  structure  of  norms  within  reality  and  do  not 
simply  invent  verbal  constructs.  The  objection  that  we  have 
access  to  these  norms  only  through  individual  acts  of  cognition, 
and  that  we  cannot  get  out  of  these  acts  or  beyond  them,  is  only 
apparently  impressive.  It  is  the  objection  which  has  been  made 
to  Kant's  criticism  of  our  cognition,  and  it  can  be  refuted  with 
the  Kantian  arguments. 

It  is  true  we  are  ourselves  liable  to  misunderstandings  and 
lack  of  comprehension  of  these  norms,  but  this  does  not  mean 
that  the  critic  assumes  a  superhuman  role  of  criticizing  our  com- 
prehension from  the  outside  or  that  he  pretends  to  grasp  the 
perfect  whole  of  the  system  of  norms  in  some  act  of  intellectual 
intuition.  Rather,  we  criticize  a  part  of  our  knowledge  in  the 
light  of  the  higher  standard  set  by  another  part.  We  are  not  sup- 
posed to  put  ourselves  into  the  position  of  a  man  who,  in  order  to 
test  his  vision,  tries  to  look  at  his  own  eyes,  but  into  the  position 
of  a  man  who  compares  the  objects  he  sees  clearly  with  those  he 
sees  only  dimly,  makes  then  generalizations  as  to  the  kinds  of 
objects  which  fall  into  the  two  classes,  and  explains  the  difference 
by  some  theory  of  vision  which  takes  account  of  distance,  light, 
and  so  forth. 

Analogously,  we  can  distinguish  between  right  and  wrong 
readings  of  a  poem,  or  between  a  recognition  or  a  distortion  of 
the  norms  implicit  in  a  work  of  art,  by  acts  of  comparison,  by  a 
study  of  different  false  or  incomplete  realizations.  We  can  study 
the  actual  workings,  relations,  and  combinations  of  these  norms, 
just  as  the  phoneme  can  be  studied.  The  literary  work  of  art  is 
neither  an  empirical  fact,  in  the  sense  of  being  a  state  of  mind  of 
any  given  individual  or  of  any  group  of  individuals,  nor  is  it  an 
ideal  changeless  object  such  as  a  triangle.  The  work  of  art  may 
become  an  object  of  experience;  it  is,  we  admit,  accessible  only 
through  individual  experience,  but  it  is  not  identical  with  any 
experience.  It  differs  from  ideal  objects  such  as  numbers  precisely 


156  Theory  of  Literature 

because  it  is  only  accessible  through  the  empirical  part  of  its 
structure,  the  sound-system,  while  a  triangle  or  a  number  can  be 
intuited  directly.  It  also  differs  from  ideal  objects  in  one  impor- 
tant respect.  It  has  something  which  can  be  called  "life."  It 
arises  at  a  certain  point  of  time,  changes  in  the  course  of  history, 
and  may  perish.  A  work  of  art  is  "timeless"  only  in  the  sense  that, 
if  preserved,  it  has  some  fundamental  structure  of  identity  since 
its  creation,  but  it  is  "historical"  too.  It  has  a  development  which 
can  be  described.  This  development  is  nothing  but  the  series  of 
concretizations  of  a  given  work  of  art  in  the  course  of  history 
which  we  may,  to  a  certain  extent,  reconstruct  from  the  reports 
of  critics  and  readers  about  their  experiences  and  judgments  and 
the  effect  of  a  given  work  of  art  on  other  works.  Our  conscious- 
ness of  earlier  concretizations  (readings,  criticisms,  misinterpre- 
tations) will  affect  our  own  experience:  earlier  readings  may 
educate  us  to  a  deeper  understanding  or  may  cause  a  violent 
reaction  against  the  prevalent  interpretations  of  the  past.  All  this 
shows  the  importance  of  the  history  of  criticism  or,  in  linguistics, 
of  historical  grammar,  and  leads  to  difficult  questions  about  the 
nature  and  limits  of  individuality.  How  far  can  a  work  of  art  be 
said  to  be  changed  and  still  remain  identical?  The  Iliad  still 
"exists";  that  is,  it  can  become  again  and  again  effective  and  is 
thus  different  from  a  historical  phenomenon  like  the  battle  of 
Waterloo  which  is  definitely  past,  though  its  course  may  be  re- 
constructed and  its  effects  may  be  felt  even  today.  In  what  sense 
can  we,  however,  speak  of  an  identity  between  the  Iliad  as  the 
contemporary  Greeks  heard  or  read  it  and  the  Iliad  we  now 
read?  Even  assuming  that  we  know  the  identical  text,  our  actual 
experience  must  be  different.  We  cannot  contrast  its  language 
with  the  everyday  language  of  Greece,  and  cannot  therefore  feel 
the  deviations  from  colloquial  language  on  which  much  of  the 
poetic  effect  must  depend.  We  are  unable  to  understand  many 
verbal  ambiguities  which  are  an  essential  part  of  every  poet's 
meaning.  Obviously  it  requires  in  addition  some  imaginative  ef- 
fort, which  can  have  only  very  partial  success,  to  think  ourselves 
back  into  the  Greek  belief  in  gods,  or  the  Greek  scale  of  moral 
values.  Still,  it  could  be  scarcely  denied  that  there  is  a  substantial 
identity  of  "structure"  which  has  remained  the  same  throughout 
the  ages.  This  structure,  however,  is  dynamic:  it  changes  through- 


The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art  1 57 

out  the  process  of  history  while  passing  through  the  minds  of  its 
readers,  critics,  and  fellow  artists.27  Thus  the  system  of  norms  is 
growing  and  changing  and  will  remain,  in  some  sense,  always 
incompletely  and  imperfectly  realized.  But  this  dynamic  concep- 
tion does  not  mean  mere  subjectivism  and  relativism.  All  the  dif- 
ferent points  of  view  are  by  no  means  equally  right.  It  will 
always  be  possible  to  determine  which  point  of  view  grasps  the 
subject  most  thoroughly  and  deeply.  A  hierarchy  of  viewpoints, 
a  criticism  of  the  grasp  of  norms,  is  implied  in  the  concept  of  the 
adequacy  of  interpretation.  All  relativism  is  ultimately  defeated 
by  the  recognition  that  "the  Absolute  is  in  the  relative,  though 
not  finally  and  fully  in  it."  28 

The  work  of  art,  then,  appears  as  an  object  of  knowledge  sui 
generis  which  has  a  special  ontological  status.  It  is  neither  real 
(like  a  statue)  nor  mental  (like  the  experience  of  light  or  pain) 
nor  ideal  (like  a  triangle).  It  is  a  system  of  norms  of  ideal  con- 
cepts which  are  intersubjective.  They  must  be  assumed  to  exist 
in  collective  ideology,  changing  with  it,  accessible  only  through 
individual  mental  experiences  based  on  the  sound-structure  of 
its  sentences. 

We  have  not  discussed  the  question  of  artistic  values.  But  the 
preceding  examination  should  have  shown  that  there  is  no  struc- 
ture outside  norms  and  values.  We  cannot  comprehend  and 
analyze  any  work  of  art  without  reference  to  values.  The  very 
fact  that  I  recognize  a  certain  structure  as  a  "work  of  art"  im- 
plies a  judgment  of  value.  The  error  of  pure  phenomenology  is 
in  the  assumption  that  such  a  dissociation  is  possible,  that  values 
are  superimposed  on  structure,  "inhere"  on  or  in  structures.  This 
error  of  analysis  vitiates  the  penetrating  book  of  Roman  Ingar- 
den,  who  tries  to  analyze  the  work  of  art  without  reference  to 
values.  The  root  of  the  matter  lies,  of  course,  in  the  phenomenol- 
ogist's  assumption  of  an  eternal,  non-temporal  order  of  "es- 
sences" to  which  the  empirical  individualizations  are  added  only 
later.  By  assuming  an  absolute  scale  of  values  we  necessarily  lose 
contact  with  the  relativity  of  individual  judgments.  A  frozen 
Absolute  faces  a  valueless  flux  of  individual  judgments. 

The  unsound  thesis  of  absolutism  and  the  equally  unsound 
antithesis  of  relativism  must  be  superseded  and  harmonized  in  a 
new  synthesis  which  makes  the  scale  of  values  itself  dynamic, 


158  Theory  of  Literature 

but  does  not  surrender  it  as  such.  "Perspectivism,"  as  we  have 
termed  such  a  conception,29  does  not  mean  an  anarchy  of  values, 
a  glorification  of  individual  caprice,  but  a  process  of  getting  to 
know  the  object  from  different  points  of  view  which  may  be 
defined  and  criticized  in  their  turn.  Structure,  sign,  and  value 
form  three  aspects  of  the  very  same  problem  and  cannot  be  arti- 
ficially isolated. 


CHAPTER   XIII 

Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter 

Every  work  of  literary  art  is,  first  of  all,  a  series  of  sounds  out 
of  which  arises  the  meaning.  In  some  literary  works,  this  stratum 
of  sounds  is  minimized  in  its  importance  j  and  it  becomes,  so  to 
speak,  diaphanous,  as  in  most  novels.  But  even  there  the  phonetic 
stratum  is  a  necessary  precondition  of  the  meaning.  The  distinc- 
tion between  a  novel  by  Dreiser  and  a  poem  like  Poe's  "The 
Bells"  is  in  this  respect  only  quantitative  and  fails  to  justify  the 
setting-up  of  two  contrasting  kinds  of  literature,  fiction  and 
poetry.  In  many  works  of  art,  including,  of  course,  prose,  the 
sound-stratum  attracts  attention  and  thus  constitutes  an  integral 
part  of  the  aesthetic  effect.  This  is  true  of  much  ornate  prose  and 
of  all  verse,  which,  by  definition,  is  an  organization  of  a  lan- 
guage's sound-system. 

In  analyzing  these  sound-effects,  we  have  to  bear  in  mind  two 
principles,  important  but  frequently  ignored.  We  must,  initially, 
distinguish  between  performance  and  pattern  of  sound.  The 
reading  aloud  of  a  literary  work  of  art  is  a  performance,  a 
realization  of  a  pattern  which  adds  something  individual  and 
personal  and,  on  the  other  hand,  may  distort  or  even  entirely 
ignore  the  pattern.  Hence  a  real  science  of  rhythmics  and  metrics 
cannot  be  based  only  on  the  study  of  individual  recitals.  A  second 
common  assumption,  that  sound  should  be  analyzed  in  complete 
divorce  from  meaning,  is  also  false.  It  follows  from  our  general 
conception  of  the  integrity  of  any  work  of  art  that  such  a  divorce 
is  false  j  but  it  follows  also  from  the  demonstration  that  mere 
sound  in  itself  can  have  no  or  little  aesthetic  effect.  There  is  no 
"musical"  verse  without  some  general  conception  of  its  meaning 
or  at  least  its  emotional  tone.  Even  listening  to  a  foreign  lan- 
guage which  we  do  not  understand  at  all,  we  do  not  hear  pure 
sound  but  impose  our  phonetic  habits  on  it  as  well  as  hear,  of 
course,  the  meaningful  intonation  given  to  it  by  the  speaker  or 

iS9 


160  Theory  of  Literature 

reader.  In  poetry,  pure  sound  is  either  a  fiction  or  an  extremely 
simple  and  elementary  series  of  relationships  such  as  those 
studied  in  BirkhofPs  Aesthetic  Measure^  which  cannot  possibly 
account  for  the  variety  and  importance  possessed  by  the  sound- 
stratum  when  seen  as  integral  to  the  total  character  of  a  poem. 

We  must  first  distinguish  between  two  very  different  aspects 
of  the  problem:  the  inherent  and  the  relational  elements  of 
sound.  By  the  former,  we  mean  the  peculiar  individuality  of  the 
sound  a  or  o,  or  /  or  -p,  independent  of  quantity,  since  there  can- 
not be  more  or  less  a  or  f.  Inherent  distinctions  in  quality  are  the 
basis  for  the  effects  which  are  usually  called  "musicality"  or 
"euphony."  Relational  distinctions,  on  the  other  hand,  are  those 
which  may  become  the  basis  of  rhythm  and  meter:  the  pitch,  the 
duration  of  the  sounds,  the  stress,  the  frequency  of  recurrence, 
all  elements  permitting  quantitative  distinctions.  Pitch  is  higher 
or  lower,  duration  shorter  or  longer,  stress  stronger  or  weaker, 
frequency  of  recurrence  greater  or  smaller.  This  fairly  elementary 
distinction  is  important,  for  it  isolates  a  whole  group  of  linguistic 
phenomena:  those  which  the  Russians  have  called  "orchestra- 
tion" (instrumentovka)  in  order  to  stress  the  fact  that  the  sound- 
quality  is  here  the  element  which  is  being  manipulated  and  ex- 
ploited by  the  writer.  The  term  "musicality"  (or  "melody")  of 
verse  should  be  dropped  as  misleading.  The  phenomena  we  are 
identifying  are  not  parallel  to  musical  "melody"  at  all:  melody 
in  music  is,  of  course,  determined  by  pitch  and  hence  is  vaguely 
parallel  to  intonation  in  language.  There  are  actually  consider- 
able differences  between  the  intonation  line  of  a  spoken  sentence, 
with  its  wavering,  quickly  changing  pitches,  and  a  musical  mel- 
ody with  its  fixed  pitches  and  definite  intervals.2  Nor  is  the  term 
"euphony"  quite  sufficient  since,  under  "orchestration,"  "ca- 
cophony" needs  to  be  considered  in  poets  like  Browning  or  Hop- 
kins who  aim  at  deliberately  harsh,  expressive  sound-effects. 

Among  the  devices  of  "orchestration"  we  have  to  distinguish 
between  sound-patterns,  repetition  of  identical  or  associated 
sound-qualities,  and  the  use  of  expressive  sounds,  of  sound- 
imitation.  Sound-patterns  have  been  studied  by  the  Russian 
formalists  with  particular  ingenuity;  in  English,  W.  J.  Bate  has 
recently  analyzed  the  elaborate  sound-figures  in  the  verse  of 
Keats,  who  himself  rather  curiously  theorized  about  his  practice.3 


Eufhony,  Rhythm ,  and  Meter  161 

Osip  Brik  4  has  classified  the  possible  sound-figures  according  to 
the  number  of  repeated  sounds,  the  number  of  repetitions,  the 
order  in  which  the  sounds  follow  each  other  in  the  repeated 
groups,  and  the  position  of  the  sounds  in  the  rhythmical  units. 
This  last  and  most  useful  classification  needs  further  division. 
One  can  distinguish  repetitions  of  sounds  closely  placed  within  a 
single  verse,  of  sounds  which  occur  in  the  beginning  of  one  group 
and  at  the  end  of  another,  or  at  the  end  of  one  line  and  the  begin- 
ning of  the  next,  or  at  the  beginning  of  lines,  or  simply  in  final 
position.  The  next  to  last  group  is  parallel  to  the  stylistic  figure 
of  anaphora.  The  last  will  include  such  a  common  phenomenon 
as  rhyme.  According  to  this  classification,  rhyme  appears  as  only 
one  example  of  sound-repetition  and  should  not  be  studied  to  the 
exclusion  of  such  analogous  phenomena  as  alliteration  and  as- 
sonance. 

We  should  not  forget  that  these  sound-figures  will  vary  in 
their  effect  from  language  to  language,  that  each  language  has 
its  own  system  of  phonemes  and  hence  of  oppositions  and 
parallels  of  vowels  or  affinities  of  consonants,  and  finally,  that 
even  such  sound-effects  are  scarcely  divorceable  from  the  gen- 
eral meaning-tone  of  a  poem  or  line.  The  Romantic  and  Sym- 
bolistic attempt  to  identify  poetry  with  song  and  music  is  little 
more  than  a  metaphor,  since  poetry  cannot  compete  with  music 
in  the  variety,  clarity,  and  patterning  of  pure  sounds.5  Meanings, 
context,  and  "tone"  are  needed  to  turn  linguistic  sounds  into 
artistic  facts. 

This  can  be  demonstrated  clearly  through  a  study  of  rhyme. 
Rhyme  is  an  extremely  complex  phenomenon.  It  has  its  mere 
euphonious  function  as  a  repetition  (or  near-repetition)  of 
sounds.  The  rhyming  of  vowels  is,  as  Henry  Lanz  has  shown  in 
his  Physical  Basis  of  Rime,&  determined  by  a  recurrence  of  their 
overtones.  But,  though  this  sound-side  may  be  basic,  it  is  ob- 
viously only  one  aspect  of  rhyme.  Aesthetically  far  more  im- 
portant is  its  metrical  function  signaling  the  conclusion  of  a  line 
of  verse,  or  as  the  organizer,  sometimes  the  sole  organizer,  of 
stanzaic  patterns.  But,  most  importantly,  rhyme  has  meaning 
and  is  thus  deeply  involved  in  the  whole  character  of  a  work  of 
poetry.  Words  are  brought  together  by  rhyme,  linked  up  or 
contrasted.  Several  aspects  of  this  semantic  function  of  rhyme 


1 62  Theory  of  Literature 

can  be  distinguished.  We  may  ask  what  is  the  semantic  function 
of  the  syllables  which  rhyme,  whether  rhyme  is  in  the  suffix 
(character:  register),  in  the  roots  (drink:  think),  or  in  both 
(passion:  fashion).  We  may  ask  from  what  semantic  sphere 
rhyme-words  are  selected:  whether,  for  example,  they  belong  to 
one  or  several  linguistic  categories  (parts  of  speech,  different 
cases)  or  groups  of  objects.  We  might  want  to  know  what  is  the 
semantic  relation  between  the  words  linked  by  rhyme,  whether 
they  belong  to  the  same  semantic  context  as  do  many  of  the  com- 
mon doubles  (heart:  part,  tears:  fears)  or  whether  they  surprise 
precisely  by  the  association  and  juxtaposition  of  completely  di- 
vergent semantic  spheres.  In  a  brilliant  paper  7  W.  K.  Wimsatt 
has  studied  these  effects  in  Pope  and  Byron,  who  aim  at  the 
shock  of  confronting  "Queens"  and  "screens,"  "elope"  and 
"Pope,"  or  "mahogany"  and  "philogyny."  Finally  one  can  dis- 
tinguish the  degree  to  which  rhyme  is  implicated  in  the  total 
context  of  a  poem,  how  far  rhyme-words  seem  mere  fillers  or, 
at  the  opposite  extreme,  whether  we  could  conjecture  the  mean- 
ing of  a  poem  or  stanza  only  from  its  rhyme-words.  Rhymes 
may  constitute  the  skeleton  of  a  stanza  or  they  may  be  minimized 
so  much  that  one  scarcely  notices  their  presence  (as  in  Brown- 
ing's "Last  Duchess"). 

Rhyme  can  be  studied,  as  H.  C.  Wyld  has  done,8  as  linguistic 
evidence  for  the  history  of  pronunciation  (Pope  rhymed  "join" 
and  "shine") ;  but  for  literary  purposes  we  must  bear  in  mind 
that  standards  of  "exactness"  have  varied  considerably  with  dif- 
ferent poetic  schools  and,  of  course,  in  different  nations.  In 
English,  where  masculine  rhyme  prevails,  feminine  rhymes  have 
usually  burlesque  or  comic  effects,  while  in  Medieval  Latin,  in 
Italian  or  Polish,  feminine  rhymes  will  be  obligatory  in  the  most 
serious  contexts.  In  English,  we  have  the  special  problem  of  the 
eye-rhyme,  the  rhyming  of  homonyms  which  is  a  form  of  pun- 
ning, the  wide  diversity  of  standard  pronunciations  in  different 
ages  and  places,  the  idiosyncrasies  of  individual  poets,  all  prob- 
lems which  have  hitherto  been  scarcely  raised.  There  is  nothing 
in  English  to  compare  with  Viktor  Zhirmunsky's  book  on 
rhyme,9  which  classifies  the  effects  of  rhyme  in  even  greater  de- 
tail than  this  sketch  and  gives  its  history  in  Russia  and  in  the 
main  European  countries. 


Eufhonyy  Rhythmy  and  Meter  163 

From  these  sound-patterns  where  the  repetition  of  a  vowel  or 
consonant-quality  (as  in  alliteration)  is  decisive,  we  must  dis- 
tinguish the  different  problem  of  sound-imitation.  Sound-imita- 
tion has  attracted  a  great  deal  of  attention,  both  because  some  of 
the  most  well-known  virtuoso  passages  in  poetry  aim  at  such 
imitation  and  because  the  problem  is  closely  connected  with  the 
older  mystical  conception  which  assumes  that  sound  must  in  some 
way  correspond  with  things  signified.  It  is  sufficient  to  think  of 
some  passages  in  Pope  or  Southey  or  to  remember  how  the 
seventeenth  century  thought  of  actually  intoning  the  music  of 
the  universe  (e.g.,  Harsdorfer  in  Germany10).  The  view  that 
a  word  "correctly"  represents  the  thing  or  action  has  been  gen- 
erally abandoned:  modern  linguistics  is  inclined  to  grant,  at  the 
most,  a  special  class  of  words,  called  "onomatopoeic,"  which  are, 
in  some  respects,  outside  the  usual  sound-system  of  a  language 
and  which  definitely  attempt  to  imitate  heard  sounds  (cuckoo, 
buzz,  bang,  miaw).  It  can  be  easily  shown  that  identical  sound- 
combinations  may  have  completely  different  meanings  in  dif- 
ferent languages  (e.g.,  Rock  in  German  means  "jacket,"  in 
English,  a  large  stone ;  rok  in  Russian  means  "fate,"  in  Czech, 
"year")  3  or  that  certain  sounds  in  nature  are  very  differently 
represented  in  different  languages  (e.g.,  "ring,"  sonner,  tauten, 
zvonit).  It  can  be  shown,  as  John  Crowe  Ransom  has  amusingly 
done,  that  the  sound-effect  of  a  line  like  "the  murmuring  of  in- 
numerable bees"  is  really  dependent  on  the  meaning.  If  we  make 
only  a  slight  phonetic  change  to  "murdering  of  innumerable 
beeves"  we  destroy  the  imitative  effect  completely. 

Still,  it  seems  that  the  problem  has  been  unduly  minimized  by 
modern  linguists  and  is  too  easily  dismissed  by  modern  critics 
like  Richards  and  Ransom.11  One  must  distinguish  between  three 
different  degrees.  First  there  is  the  actual  imitation  of  physical 
sounds,  which  is  undeniably  successful  in  cases  like  "cuckoo," 
though  it  may,  of  course,  vary  according  to  the  linguistic  system 
of  a  speaker.  Such  sound-imitation  must  be  differentiated  from 
elaborate  sound-painting,  the  reproduction  of  natural  sounds 
through  speech-sounds  in  a  context  where  words,  in  themselves 
quite  devoid  of  onomatopoeic  effects,  will  be  drawn  into  a  sound 
pattern  like  "innumerable"  in  the  quotation  from  Tennyson  or 
many  words  in  passages  in  Homer  and  Virgil.  Finally,  there  is 


164  Theory  of  Literature 

the  important  level  of  sound-symbolism  or  sound-metaphor, 
which  in  each  language  has  its  established  conventions  and  pat- 
terns. Maurice  Grammont  has  made  the  most  elaborate  and  in- 
genious study  of  French  verse  12  in  regard  to  expressiveness.  He 
has  classified  all  French  consonants  and  vowels  and  studied  their 
expressive  effects  in  different  poets.  Clear  vowels,  for  example, 
can  express  smallness,  rapidity,  elan,  grace,  and  the  like. 

While  the  study  of  Grammont  is  open  to  the  charge  of  mere 
subjectivity,  there  is  still,  within  a  given  linguistic  system,  some- 
thing like  a  "physiognomy"  of  words,  a  sound-symbolism  far 
more  pervasive  than  mere  onomatopoeia.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
synaesthetic  combinations  and  associations  permeate  all  lan- 
guages and  that  these  correspondences  have  been,  quite  rightly, 
exploited  and  elaborated  by  the  poets.  A  poem  such  as  Rimbaud's 
well-known  "Les  Voyelles,"  which  gives  a  one-to-one  relation- 
ship between  individual  vowels  and  colors,  though  based  on  a 
widespread  tradition,13  may  be  purely  wilful  ;  but  the  fundamen- 
tal associations  between  high  vowels  (e  and  i)  and  thin,  quick, 
clear,  and  bright  objects  and,  again,  between  low  vowels  (0  and 
u)  and  clumsy,  slow,  dull,  and  dark  objects  can  be  proved  by 
acoustic  experiments.14  The  work  of  Carl  Stumpf  and  Wolfgang 
Kohler  shows  also  that  consonants  can  be  divided  into  dark 
(labials  and  velars)  and  bright  (dentals  and  palatals).  These 
are  by  no  means  mere  metaphors  but  associations  based  on  in- 
dubitable similarities  between  sound  and  color  observable  espe- 
cially in  the  structure  of  the  respective  systems.15  There  are  the 
general  linguistic  problem  of  "sound  and  meaning"  16  and  the 
separate  problem  of  its  exploitation  and  organization  in  a  work 
of  literature.  The  last,  especially,  has  been  studied  only  very 
inadequately. 

Rhythm  and  meter  present  problems  distinct  from  these  of 
"orchestration."  They  have  been  studied  very  widely,  and  a 
huge  literature  has  grown  up  around  them.  The  problem  of 
rhythm  is,  of  course,  by  no  means  specific  to  literature  or  even  to 
language.  There  are  the  rhythms  of  nature  and  work,  the 
rhythms  of  light-signals,  the  rhythms  of  music,  and,  in  a  rather 
metaphorical  sense,  the  rhythms  in  the  plastic  arts.  Rhythm  is 
also  a  general  linguistic  phenomenon.  We  need  not  discuss  the 
hundred  and  one  theories  about  its  actual  nature.17  For  our  pur- 


Eu-phony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter  165 

poses,  it  is  sufficient  to  distinguish  between  theories  requiring 
"periodicity"  as  the  sine  qua  non  of  rhythm  and  theories  which, 
conceiving  of  rhythm  more  widely,  include  in  it  even  non- 
recurrent configurations  of  movements.  The  first  view  definitely 
identifies  rhythm  with  meter,  and  thus  may  require  the  rejection 
of  the  concept  of  "prose  rhythm"  as  a  contradiction  or  a  mere 
metaphor.18  The  other  and  wider  view  is  strongly  supported  by 
the  researches  of  Sievers  into  individual  speech  rhythms  and  a 
wide  variety  of  musical  phenomena,  including  plainsong  and 
much  exotic  music  which,  without  periodicity,  are  still  rhyth- 
mical. So  conceived,  rhythm  allows  us  to  study  individual  speech 
and  the  rhythm  of  all  prose.  It  can  easily  be  shown  that  all  prose 
has  some  kind  of  rhythm,  that  even  the  most  prosaic  sentence  can 
be  scanned,  that  is,  subdivided  into  groups  of  longs  and  shorts, 
stressed  and  unstressed  syllables.  Much  was  made  of  this  fact 
even  in  the  eighteenth  century  by  a  writer,  Joshua  Steele;19  and 
there  is  a  large  literature  today  analyzing  pages  of  prose. 
Rhythm  is  closely  associated  with  "melody,"  the  line  of  intona- 
tion determined  by  the  sequence  of  pitches;  and  the  term  is  fre- 
quently used  so  broadly  as  to  include  both  rhythm  and  melody. 
The  famous  German  philologist  Eduard  Sievers  professed  to 
distinguish  personal  rhythmical  and  intonational  patterns,  and 
Ottmar  Rutz  has  associated  these  with  specific  physiological 
types  of  bodily  posture  and  breathing.20  Though  attempts  have 
been  made  to  apply  these  researches  to  strictly  literary  purposes, 
to  establish  a  correlation  between  literary  styles  and  the  types  of 
Rutz,21  these  questions  seem  to  us  mostly  outside  the  realm  of 
literary  scholarship. 

We  enter  the  realm  of  literary  scholarship  when  we  have  to 
explain  the  nature  of  prose  rhythm,  the  peculiarity  and  use  of 
rhythmical  prose,  the  prose  of  certain  passages  in  the  English 
Bible,  in  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  and  Ruskin  or  De  Quincey,  where 
rhythm  and  sometimes  melody  force  themselves  even  on  the  un- 
attentive  reader.  The  exact  nature  of  the  artistic  prose  rhythm 
has  caused  very  considerable  difficulty.  One  well-known  book, 
W.  M.  Patterson's  Rhythm  of  Prose,22  tried  to  account  for  it  by 
a  system  of  elaborate  syncopation.  George  Saintsbury's  very  full 
History  of  English  Prose  Rhythm  23  constantly  insists  that  prose 
rhythm  is  based  on  "variety,"  but  leaves  its  actual  nature  com- 


1 66  Theory  of  Literature 

pletely  undefined.  If  Saintsbury's  "explanation"  were  correct 
there  would  be,  of  course,  no  rhythm  at  all.  But  Saintsbury 
doubtless  was  only  stressing  the  danger  of  prose  rhythm's  falling 
into  exact  metrical  patterns.  Today,  at  least,  we  feel  the  frequent 
blank  verse  in  Dickens  as  awkward  and  sentimental  deviation. 

Other  investigators  of  prose  rhythm  study  only  one  rather 
distinct  aspect,  "cadence,"  the  concluding  rhythm  of  sentences 
in  the  tradition  of  Latin  oratorical  prose  for  which  Latin  had  ex- 
act patterns  with  specific  names.  "Cadence,"  especially  in  inter- 
rogatory and  exclamatory  sentences,  is  partly  also  a  question  of 
melody.  The  modern  reader  has  difficulty  in  feeling  the  elab- 
orate patterns  of  the  Latin  cursus  when  imitated  in  English, 
since  English  longs  and  shorts  are  not  fixed  with  the  same  con- 
ventional rigidity  as  in  the  Latin  system ;  but  it  has  been  shown 
that  effects  analogous  to  the  Latin  were  widely  attempted  and 
occasionally  achieved,  especially  in  the  seventeenth  century.24 

In  general,  the  artistic  rhythm  of  prose  is  best  approached  by 
keeping  clearly  in  mind  that  it  has  to  be  distinguished  both  from 
the  general  rhythm  of  prose  and  from  verse.  The  artistic  rhythm 
of  prose  can  be  described  as  an  organization  of  ordinary  speech 
rhythms.  It  differs  from  ordinary  prose  by  a  greater  regularity 
of  stress  distribution,  which,  however,  must  not  reach  an  ap- 
parent isochronism  (that  is,  a  regularity  of  time  intervals  be- 
tween rhythmical  accents).  In  an  ordinary  sentence  there  are 
usually  considerable  differences  of  intensity  and  pitch,  while  in 
rhythmical  prose  there  is  a  marked  tendency  toward  a  leveling 
of  stress  and  pitch  differences.  Analyzing  passages  from  Push- 
kin's "Queen  of  Spades,"  Boris  Tomashevsky,  one  of  the  fore- 
most Russian  students  of  these  questions,  has  shown  by  statistical 
methods 25  that  the  beginnings  and  ends  of  sentences  tend  toward 
greater  rhythmical  regularity  than  do  the  centers.  The  general 
impression  of  regularity  and  periodicity  is  usually  strengthened 
by  phonetic  and  syntactical  devices:  by  sound-figures,  by  parallel 
clauses,  antithetic  balancings  where  the  whole  structure  of  mean- 
ing strongly  supports  the  rhythmical  pattern.  There  are  all  kinds 
of  gradations  from  almost  non-rhythmical  prose:  from  chopped 
sentences  full  of  accumulated  stresses  to  rhythmical  prose  ap- 
proaching the  regularity  of  verse.  The  main  transitional  form 


Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter  167 

toward  verse  is  called  verset  by  the  French  and  occurs  in  the 
English  Psalms  and  in  such  writers  who  aim  at  Biblical  effects  as 
Ossian  or  Claudel.  Every  other  accented  syllable  in  the  verset 
is  stressed  more  strongly,  and  thus  groups  of  two  stresses  are 
created  similar  to  the  groups  in  dipodic  verse. 

We  need  not  enter  into  a  detailed  analysis  of  these  devices. 
They  clearly  have  a  long  history  which  has  been  most  pro- 
foundly influenced  by  Latin  oratorical  prose.26  In  English  litera- 
ture, rhythmical  prose  climaxes  in  the  seventeenth  century  with 
writers  like  Sir  Thomas  Browne  or  Jeremy  Taylor.  It  gives  way 
to  a  more  simple  colloquial  diction  in  the  eighteenth  century, 
even  if  a  new  "grand  style" — the  style  of  Johnson,  Gibbon,  and 
Burke — arose  toward  the  end  of  the  century.27  It  was  variously 
revived  in  the  nineteenth  century  by  De  Quincey  and  Ruskin, 
Emerson  and  Melville,  and  again,  though  on  different  prin- 
ciples, by  Gertrude  Stein  and  James  Joyce.  In  Germany,  there 
is  the  rhythmical  prose  of  Nietzsche ;  in  Russia,  there  are  famous 
passages  in  Gogol  and  Turgenev  and,  more  recently,  the  "orna- 
mental" prose  of  Andrey  Byely. 

The  artistic  value  of  rhythmical  prose  is  still  debated  and 
debatable.  In  accordance  with  the  modern  preference  for  purity 
in  the  arts  and  genres,  most  modern  readers  prefer  their  poetry 
poetic  and  their  prose  prosaic.  Rhythmical  prose  seems  to  be  felt 
as  a  mixed  form,  as  neither  prose  nor  verse.  But  this  is  probably 
a  critical  prejudice  of  our  time.  A  defense  of  rhythmical  prose 
would  presumably  be  the  same  as  a  defense  of  verse.  Used  well 
it  forces  us  into  a  fuller  awareness  of  the  text ;  it  underscores ;  it 
ties  together  j  it  builds  up  gradations,  suggests  parallelisms ;  it 
organizes  speech}  and  organization  is  art. 

Prosody,  or  metrics,  is  a  subject  which  has  attracted  an  enor- 
mous amount  of  labor  through  the  centuries.  Today,  it  might  be 
supposed,  we  need  do  little  more  than  survey  new  metrical  speci- 
mens and  extend  such  studies  to  the  new  techniques  of  recent 
poetry.  Actually,  the  very  foundations  and  main  criteria  of 
metrics  are  still  uncertain ,  and  there  is  an  astonishing  amount  of 
loose  thinking  and  confused  or  shifting  terminology  even  in 
standard  treatises.  Saintsbury's  History  of  English  Prosody, 
which  in  its  scale  has  never  been  surpassed  or  equaled,  rests  on 
completely  undefined  and  vague  theoretical  foundations.  In  his 


1 68  Theory  of  Literature 

strange  empiricism,  Saintsbury  is  even  proud  of  his  refusal  to 
define  or  even  to  describe  his  terms.  He  speaks,  for  instance,  of 
longs  and  shorts,  but  cannot  make  up  his  mind  whether  his  term 
refers  to  distinctions  in  duration  or  stress.28  In  his  Study  of 
Poetry,  Bliss  Perry  speaks  confusedly  and  confusingly  of  the 
"weight"  of  words,  "the  relative  loudness  or  pitch,  by  which 
their  meaning  or  importance  is  indicated."  29  Similar  misconcep- 
tions and  equivocations  could  be  easily  quoted  from  many  other 
standard  books.  Even  when  correct  distinctions  are  made,  they 
may  be  disguised  under  a  completely  contradictory  terminology. 
Thus  T.  S.  Omond's  elaborate  history  of  English  metrical 
theories  and  Pallister  Barkas'  useful  survey  of  recent  theories  30 
must  be  welcomed  as  attempts  to  straighten  out  these  confusions 
though  their  conclusions  support  an  unwarranted  skepticism. 
One  must  multiply  these  distinctions  many  times  when  we  con- 
sider the  enormous  variety  of  metrical  theories  on  the  Continent, 
especially  in  France,  Germany,  and  Russia. 

For  our  purposes  it  will  be  best  to  distinguish  only  the  main 
types  of  metrical  theories  without  getting  involved  in  the  finer 
differences  or  in  mixed  types.  The  oldest  type  can  be  called 
"graphic"  prosody  and  is  derived  from  Renaissance  handbooks. 
It  works  with  graphic  signs  of  longs  and  shorts,  which  in  English 
usually  are  meant  to  represent  the  stressed  and  unstressed  syl- 
lables. Graphic  prosodists  usually  attempt  to  draw  up  metrical 
schemes  or  patterns  which  the  poet  is  assumed  to  observe  exactly. 
We  all  have  learned  their  terminology  in  school,  have  heard  of 
iambs,  trochees,  anapaests,  and  spondees.  These  terms  are  still 
the  most  widely  understood  and  the  most  useful  for  ordinary 
descriptions  and  discussions  of  metrical  patterns.  Yet  the  insuf- 
ficiency of  the  whole  system  is  today  widely  recognized.  It  is 
obvious  that  the  theory  pays  no  attention  to  actual  sound  and  that 
its  usual  dogmatism  is  completely  mistaken.  Everybody  today 
understands  that  verse  would  be  the  dullest  of  monotones  if  it 
really  fulfilled  the  graphic  patterns  exactly.  The  theory  lingers 
mostly  in  classrooms  and  elementary  textbooks.  It  has,  however, 
its  merits.  It  concentrates  frankly  on  metrical  patterns  and  ig- 
nores the  minutiae  and  personal  idiosyncrasies  of  the  performer, 
a  difficulty  which  many  modern  systems  have  been  unable  to 
avoid.  Graphic  metrics  knows  that  meter  is  not  merely  a  matter 


Eufhonyy  Rhythm,  and  Meter  169 

of  sound,  that  there  is  a  metrical  pattern  which  is  thought  of  as 
implied  or  underlying  the  actual  poem. 

The  second  type  is  the  "musical"  theory,  based  on  the  assump- 
tion, correct  as  far  as  it  goes,  that  meter  in  poetry  is  analogous 
to  rhythm  in  music  and  thus  best  represented  by  musical  notation. 
An  early  standard  exposition  in  English  is  Sidney  Lanier's 
Science  of  English  Verse  ( 1 880)  5  but  the  theory  has  been  refined 
upon  and  modified  by  recent  investigators.31  In  America,  at  least 
among  teachers  of  English,  it  seems  the  accepted  theory.  Accord- 
ing to  this  system,  each  syllable  is  assigned  a  musical  note,  of  un- 
designated height.  The  length  of  the  note  is  determined  rather 
arbitrarily  by  assigning  a  half-note  to  a  long  syllable,  a  quarter- 
note  to  a  semi-short  syllable,  an  eighth-note  to  a  short  syllable, 
and  so  on.  Measures  are  counted  from  one  accented  syllable  to 
another  j  and  the  speed  of  reading  is  indicated  rather  vaguely  by 
choosing  either  %  or  %,  or  in  rare  cases  %  measures.  With  such 
a  system  it  is  possible  to  arrive  at  the  notation  of  any  English 
text,  e.g.,  an  ordinary  English  pentameter  line  like  Pope's 

Lo}  the  foor  Indian  whose  untutored  mind 

can  be  written  out  as  %  thus 

l;.;;!j;;h;;lx  ;.|j" 

fyihemr  in-U-m  whse  m~tu>-tm&  mini 

According  to  this  theory,  the  distinction  of  iamb  and  trochee  will 
be  completely  reinterpreted,  the  iamb  being  merely  character- 
ized by  an  anacrusis,  which  is  considered  extrametrical  or  counted 
with  the  preceding  line.  Even  the  most  complex  meters  can  be 
written  out  in  such  a  notation  by  a  judicious  introduction  of  rests 
and  the  handling  of  longs  and  shorts.33 

The  theory  has  the  merit  of  strongly  stressing  the  tendency  of 
verse  toward  subjectively  felt  isochronism,  the  ways  in  which  we 
slow  down  or  speed  up,  lengthen  or  shorten  the  reading  of 
words,  introduce  pauses  to  equalize  measures.  The  notation  will 
be  most  successful  with  "singable"  verse,  but  it  seems  highly  in- 


170  Theory  of  Literature 

adequate  in  dealing  with  colloquial  or  oratorical  types  of  verse 
and  is  usually  helpless  when  it  has  to  deal  with  free  verse  or  any 
verse  which  is  not  isochronic.  Some  propounders  of  the  theory 
simply  deny  that  free  verse  is  verse.34  Musical  theorists  can 
handle  ballad  meter  as  "dipodic,"  or  even  double  compound 
measures  successfully,35  and  can  account  for  some  metrical 
phenomena  by  the  introduction  of  the  term  "syncopation."  In 
Browning's  verses 

The  gray  sea  and  the  long  black  land 
And  the  yellow  half-moon  large  and  low 

"sea"  and  "black"  in  the  first  line  and  "half"  in  the  second  can 
be  noted  as  syncopated.  The  merits  of  the  musical  theory  are 
obvious:  it  did  much  to  defeat  the  usual  schoolroom  dogmatism; 
and  it  allowed  the  handling  and  notation  of  meters  unprovided 
for  in  textbooks,  e.g.,  some  of  the  complex  meters  of  Swinburne, 
Meredith,  or  Browning.  But  the  theory  has  serious  deficiencies: 
it  gives  free  reign  to  arbitrary  individual  readings;  it  levels  out 
distinctions  between  poets  and  schools  of  poetry  by  reducing  all 
verse  to  a  few  types  of  monotonous  beats.  It  seems  to  invite  or 
imply  chant-like  oral  performance  of  all  poetry.  And  the  iso- 
chronism  it  establishes  is  little  more  than  subjective,  a  system  of 
sound  and  rest  sections  perceived  as  equalized  when  compared 
with  each  other. 

A  third  metrical  theory,  acoustic  metrics,  is  today  widely 
respected.  It  is  based  on  objective  investigations,  frequently  em- 
ploying scientific  instruments  such  as  the  oscillograph,  which 
allows  the  recording  and  even  photographing  of  the  actual 
events  in  the  reading  of  poetry.  The  techniques  of  scientific 
sound-investigation  were  applied  to  metrics  by  Sievers  and  Saran 
in  Germany,  by  Verrier,  who  used  mostly  English  materials,  in 
France,  and,  in  America,  by  E.  W.  Scripture.30  A  brief  statement 
of  some  basic  results  can  be  found  in  Wilbur  L.  Schramm's 
Affroaches  to  a  Science  of  English  Verse?1  Acoustical  metrics 
has  clearly  established  the  distinct  elements  constituent  of  meter. 
Today,  therefore,  there  is  no  excuse  for  confusing  pitch,  loud- 
ness, timbre  and  time,  since  these  can  be  shown  to  correspond  to 
the  physical,  measurable  factors  of  frequency,  amplitude,  form, 
and  duration  of  the  sound-waves  emitted  by  the  speaker.  We  can 


Euphony y  Rhythm,  and  Meter  171 

photograph  or  draw  the  findings  of  the  physical  instruments  so 
clearly  that  we  can  study  every  minute  detail  of  the  actual  events 
of  any  recitation.  The  oscillograph  will  show  us  with  what  loud- 
ness, and  what  time,  with  what  changes  of  pitch,  a  given  reader 
recited  this  or  that  line  of  poetry.  The  first  line  of  Paradise  Lost 
will  appear  as  a  figure  similar  to  the  violent  oscillations  on  a 
seismograph  during  an  earthquake.38  This  is  indubitably  an 
achievement j  and  many  scientifically  inclined  people  (among 
whom,  of  course,  are  many  Americans)  conclude  that  we  cannot 
go  beyond  these  findings.  Yet  laboratory  metrics  obviously  ig- 
nores, and  has  to  ignore,  meaning :  thus  it  is  concluded  that  there 
is  no  such  thing  as  a  syllable,  since  there  is  a  continuum  of  voice ; 
that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  word,  since  its  limits  cannot  ap- 
pear on  the  oscillograph}  and  that  there  is  even  no  melody  in  the 
strict  sense,  since  pitch,  carried  only  by  the  vowels  and  a  few  con- 
sonants, is  constantly  interrupted  by  noises.  Acoustic  metrics  also 
shows  that  there  is  no  strict  isochronism,  since  the  actual  duration 
of  measures  varies  considerably.  There  are  no  fixed  "longs  and 
shorts,"  at  least  in  English,  for  a  "short"  syllable  may  be 
physically  longer  than  a  "long"}  and  there  are  even  no  objective 
distinctions  of  stress,  for  a  "stressed"  syllable  may  be  actually 
pronounced  with  less  intensity  than  an  unstressed  one. 

But  while  one  may  acknowledge  the  usefulness  of  these  results, 
the  very  foundations  of  this  "science"  are  open  to  grave  objec- 
tions which  greatly  minimize  its  values  for  literary  students.  The 
whole  assumption  that  the  findings  of  the  oscillograph  are 
directly  relevant  to  the  study  of  metrics  is  mistaken.  The  time  of 
verse-language  is  a  time  of  expectation.39  We  expect  after  a 
certain  time  a  rhythmical  signal,  but  this  periodicity  need  not  be 
exact  nor  need  the  signal  be  actually  strong  so  long  as  we  feel 
it  to  be  strong.  Musical  metrics  is  indubitably  correct  in  saying 
that  all  these  distinctions  of  time  and  stress  as  well  as  pitch  are 
only  relative  and  subjective.  But  acoustic  and  musical  metrics 
share  one  common  defect  or,  rather,  limitation:  they  rely  ex- 
clusively on  sound,  on  a  single  or  many  performances  of  reciters. 
The  results  of  acoustic  and  musical  metrics  are  conclusive  only 
for  this  or  that  particular  recitation.  They  ignore  the  fact  that  a 
reciter  may  or  may  not  recite  correctly,  that  he  may  add  elements 
or  may  distort  or  completely  disregard  the  pattern. 


172  Theory  of  Literature 

A  line  like 

Silent  upon  a  -peak  in  Darien 

can  be  read  by  imposing  the  metrical  pattern:  "Silent  upon  a 

peak  in  Darien" ;  or  it  may  be  read  as  prose:  "Silent  upon  a  peak 

in  Darien"  j  or  it  may  be  read  in  various  ways  reconciling  the 

metrical  pattern  and  the  prose  rhythm.  In  hearing  "silent"  we 

shall,  as  English  speakers,  feel  the  violence  done  to  "natural" 

speech;  in  hearing  "silent"  we  still  shall  feel  the  "carry-over"  of 
the  metrical  pattern  from  the  preceding  lines.  The  compromise 
of  a  "hovering  accent"  may  be  anywhere  between  the  two  ex- 
tremes ;  but  in  all  cases,  whatever  the  reading,  the  specific  per- 
formance of  a  reciter  will  be  irrelevant  to  an  analysis  of  the 
prosodic  situation,  which  consists  precisely  in  the  tension,  the 
"counterpoint,"  between  the  metrical  pattern  and  the  prose 
rhythm. 

The  pattern  of  verse  is  inaccessible  and  incomprehensible  to 
merely  acoustic  or  musical  methods.  The  meaning  of  verse 
simply  cannot  be  ignored  in  a  theory  of  metrics.  One  of  the 
best  musical  metrists,  George  R.  Stewart,  formulates,  for  ex- 
ample, that  "verse  can  exist  without  meaning,"  that  since  "meter 
is  essentially  independent  of  meaning,  we  may  with  propriety 
attempt  to  reproduce  the  metrical  structure  of  any  particular  line 
entirely  apart  from  its  meaning."  40  Verrier  and  Saran  have 
formulated  the  dogma  that  we  must  take  the  viewpoint  of  a 
foreigner  who  listens  to  the  verse  without  understanding  the 
language.41  But  this  conception,  which  in  practice  is  quite  un- 
tenable and  is  actually  deserted  by  Stewart,42  must  result  in  dis- 
astrous consequences  for  any  literary  study  of  metrics.  If  we 
ignore  meaning,  we  give  up  the  concept  of  word  and  phrase  and 
thus  give  up  the  possibility  of  analyzing  the  differences  between 
the  verse  of  different  authors.  English  verse  is  largely  deter- 
mined by  the  counterpoint  between  the  imposed  phrasing,  the 
rhythmical  impulse,  and  the  actual  speech  rhythm  conditioned 
by  phrasal  divisions.  But  the  phrasal  division  can  be  ascertained 
only  upon  familiarity  with  the  meaning  of  the  verse. 


Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter  173 

The  Russian  formalists  43  have  therefore  tried  to  put  metrics 
on  an  entirely  new  basis.  The  term  "foot"  seems  to  them  inade- 
quate, since  there  is  much  verse  without  "feet."  Isochronism, 
though  subjectively  applicable  to  much  verse,  is  also  limited  to 
particular  types  and,  furthermore,  is  not  accessible  to  objective 
investigation.  All  these  theories,  they  argue,  wrongly  define  the 
fundamental  unit  of  poetic  rhythm.  If  we  see  verse  merely  as 
segments  grouped  around  some  stressed  syllable  (or  long  syl- 
lable, in  quantitative  systems),  we  shall  be  unable  to  deny  that 
the  same  groupings,  and  even  the  same  order  of  groupings,  can 
be  found  in  types  of  linguistic  pronouncements  not  describable  as 
poetry.  The  fundamental  unity  of  rhythm  is,  then,  not  the  foot 
but  the  whole  line,  a  conclusion  which  follows  from  the  general 
Gestalt  theory  which  the  Russians  embrace.  Feet  have  no  inde- 
pendent existence  j  they  exist  only  in  relation  to  the  whole  verse. 
Each  stress  has  its  own  peculiarities  according  to  its  position  in 
the  verse,  that  is,  whether  it  is  the  first,  the  second,  or  the  third, 
etc.,  foot.  The  organizing  unity  in  verse  varies  in  different  lan- 
guages and  metrical  systems.  It  may  be  "melody,"  that  is,  the 
sequence  of  pitches  which,  in  certain  free  verse,  may  be  the  only 
mark  distinguishing  it  from  prose.44  If  we  do  not  know  from  the 
context,  or  the  arrangement  of  print  which  serves  as  a  signal,  that 
a  passage  of  free  verse  is  verse,  we  could  read  it  as  prose  and 
indeed  not  distinguish  it  from  prose.  Yet  it  can  be  read  as  verse 
and,  as  such,  will  be  read  differently,  i.e.,  with  a  different  intona- 
tion. This  intonation,  they  show  in  great  detail,  is  always  two- 
part,  or  dipodic;  and  if  we  eliminate  it,  verse  ceases  to  be  verse, 
becoming  merely  rhythmical  prose. 

In  the  study  of  ordinary  metrical  verse,  the  Russians  apply 
statistical  methods  to  the  relation  between  the  pattern  and  the 
speech  rhythm.  Verse  is  conceived  as  an  elaborate  contrapuntal 
pattern  between  the  superimposed  meter  and  the  ordinary 
rhythm  of  speech,  for,  as  they  strikingly  say,  verse  is  "organized 
violence"  committed  on  everyday  language.  They  distinguish 
"rhythmical  impulse"  from  pattern.  Pattern  is  static,  graphic. 
"Rhythmical  impulse"  is  dynamic,  progressive.  We  anticipate 
the  signals  which  are  to  follow.  We  organize  not  only  the  time 
but  all  the  other  elements  of  the  work  of  art.  Rhythmical  im- 


174  Theory  of  Literature 

pulse,  so  conceived,  influences  the  choice  of  words,  the  syntactical 
structure,  and  hence  the  general  meaning  of  a  verse. 

The  statistical  method  used  is  very  simple.  In  each  poem  or 
section  of  a  poem  to  be  analyzed,  one  counts  the  percentage  of 
cases  in  which  each  syllable  carries  a  stress.  If,  in  a  pentameter 
line,  the  verse  should  be  absolutely  regular,  the  statistics  would 
show  zero  percentage  on  the  first  syllable,  ioo  per  cent  on  the 
second,  zero  on  the  third,  ioo  on  the  fourth,  etc.  This  could  be 
shown  graphically  by  drawing  one  line  for  the  number  of  syl- 
lables and  another,  vertically  opposed  to  it,  for  the  percentages. 
Verse  of  such  regularity,  is  of  course,  infrequent,  for  the  simple 
reason  that  it  is  extremely  monotonous.  Most  verse  shows  a 
counterpoint  between  pattern  and  actual  fulfillment,  e.g.,  in 
blank  verse  the  number  of  cases  of  accents  on  the  first  syllable 
may  be  rather  high,  a  well-known  phenomenon  described  either 
as  the  "trochaic  foot,"  or  "hovering"  accent,  or  "substitution."  In 
a  diagram,  the  graph  may  appear  flattened  out  very  consider- 
ably ;  but  if  it  is  still  pentameter  and  intended  as  such,  the  graph 
will  preserve  some  general  tendency  toward  culmination  points 
on  syllables  2,  4,  6,  and  8.  This  statistical  method  is,  of  course,  no 
end  in  itself.  But  it  has  the  advantage  of  taking  account  of  the 
whole  poem  and  thus  revealing  tendencies  which  may  not  be 
clearly  marked  in  a  few  lines.  It  has  the  further  advantage  of 
exhibiting  at  a  glance  the  differences  between  schools  of  poetry 
and  authors.  In  Russian,  the  method  works  especially  well,  since 
each  word  has  only  a  single  accent  (subsidiary  accents  are  not 
stresses  but  matters  of  breathing) ,  while  in  English  good  statis- 
tics would  be  fairly  complex,  taking  into  account  the  secondary 
accent  and  the  many  enclitic  and  proclitic  words. 

Great  stress  is  laid  by  Russian  metrists  on  the  fact  that  different 
schools  and  different  authors  fulfill  ideal  patterns  differently, 
that  each  school  or  sometimes  author  has  its  own  metrical  norm, 
and  that  it  is  unfair  and  false  to  judge  schools  and  authors  in  the 
light  of  any  one  particular  dogma.  The  history  of  versification 
appears  as  a  constant  conflict  between  different  norms,  and  one 
extreme  is  very  likely  to  be  replaced  by  another.  The  Russians 
also  stress,  most  usefully,  the  vast  differences  between  linguistic 
systems  of  versification.  The  usual  classification  of  verse  systems 
into  syllabic,  accentual,  and  quantitative  is  not  only  insufficient 


Eufhony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter  175 

but  even  misleading.  For  instance,  in  Serbo-Croat  and  Finnish 
epic  verse,  all  three  principles — syllabism,  quantity,  and  accent — 
play  their  part.  Modern  research  has  shown  that  the  supposedly 
purely  quantitative  Latin  prosody  was,  in  practice,  considerably 
modified  by  attention  to  accent  and  to  the  limits  of  words.45 

Languages  vary  according  to  the  element  which  is  the  basis  of 
its  rhythm.  English  is  obviously  determined  by  stress,  while 
quantity,  in  English,  is  subordinated  to  accent,  and  the  word 
limits  also  play  an  important  rhythmical  function.  The  rhyth- 
mical difference  between  a  line  made  out  of  monosyllables  and 
one  entirely  made  out  of  polysyllabic  words  is  striking.  In  Czech, 
the  word  limit  is  the  basis  of  rhythm,  which  is  always  accom- 
panied by  obligatory  stress,  while  quantity  appears  as  merely  an 
optional  diversifying  element.  In  Chinese,  pitch  is  the  main  basis 
of  rhythm,  while  in  ancient  Greek,  quantity  was  the  organizing 
principle,  with  pitch  and  the  limits  of  words  as  optional  diversi- 
fying elements. 

Within  the  history  of  a  specific  language,  though  systems  of 
versification  may  have  been  replaced  by  other  systems,  we  should 
not  speak  of  "progress"  or  condemn  the  older  systems  as  mere 
clumsy  doggerel,  mere  approximations  to  the  later  established 
systems.  In  Russian,  a  long  period  was  dominated  by  syllabism, 
in  Czech,  by  quantitative  prosody.  The  study  of  the  history  of 
English  versification  from  Chaucer  to  Surrey  could  be  revolu- 
tionized were  it  realized  that  poets  such  as  Lydgate,  Hawes,  and 
Skelton  did  not  write  imperfect  verse  but  followed  conventions 
of  their  own.46  Even  a  reasoned  defense  of  the  much-ridiculed 
attempt  to  introduce  quantitative  meter  into  English  by  men  of 
such  distinction  as  Sidney,  Spenser,  and  Gabriel  Harvey  could  be 
attempted.  Their  abortive  movement  was  at  least  historically  im- 
portant for  the  breaking  down  of  the  syllabic  rigidity  of  much 
earlier  English  verse. 

It  is  also  possible  to  attempt  a  comparative  history  of  metrics. 
The  famous  French  linguist,  Antoine  Meillet,  in  his  Les  Ori- 
gines  indoeurofeennes  des  metres  grecs,  compared  ancient  Greek 
and  Vedic  meters  for  the  purpose  of  reconstructing  the  Indo- 
European  metrical  system;  4T  and  Roman  Jakobson  has  shown 
that  the  Yugoslav  epic  verse  is  very  close  to  this  ancient  pattern 
which  combines  a  syllabic  line  with  a  curiously  rigid  quantitative 


176  Theory  of  Literature 

clause.48  It  is  possible  to  distinguish  and  to  trace  the  history  of 
different  types  of  folklore  verse.  The  epic  recitative  and  the 
"melodic"  verse  used  in  the  lyric  must  be  sharply  differentiated. 
In  every  language,  epic  verse  seems  to  be  far  more  conservative, 
while  song  verse,  which  is  most  closely  associated  with  a  lan- 
guage's phonetic  features,  is  liable  to  far  greater  national  diver- 
sity. Even  for  modern  verse,  it  is  important  to  keep  in  mind  the 
distinctions  between  oratorical,  conversational,  and  "melodic" 
verse,  distinctions  ignored  by  most  English  metrists,  who,  under 
influence  of  the  musical  theory,  are  preoccupied  with  song 
verse.49 

In  a  valuable  study  of  nineteenth-century  Russian  lyrical 
verse,50  Boris  Eikhenbaum  has  attempted  to  analyze  the  role  of 
intonation  in  "melodic,"  "singable"  verse.  He  shows  strikingly 
how  the  Russian  romantic  lyric  has  exploited  tripodic  measures, 
intonation  schemes  such  as  exclamatory  and  interrogatory  sen- 
tences, and  syntactical  patterns  such  as  parallelism ;  but,  in  our 
opinion,  he  has  not  established  his  central  thesis  of  the  forming 
power  of  intonation  in  "singable"  verse.51 

We  may  be  doubtful  about  a  good  many  features  of  the  Rus- 
sian theories,  but  one  cannot  deny  that  they  have  found  a  way 
out  of  the  impasse  of  the  laboratory  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
mere  subjectivism  of  the  musical  metrists  on  the  other.  Much  is 
still  obscure  and  controversial ;  but  metrics  has  today  restored 
the  necessary  contact  with  linguistics  and  with  literary  semantics. 
Sound  and  meter,  we  see,  must  be  studied  as  elements  of  the 
totality  of  a  work  of  art,  not  in  isolation  from  meaning. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

Style  and  Stylistics 

Language  is  quite  literally  the  material  of  the  literary  artist. 
Every  literary  work,  one  could  say,  is  merely  a  selection  from  a 
given  language,  just  as  a  work  of  sculpture  has  been  described  as 
a  block  of  marble  with  some  pieces  chipped  off.  In  his  little  book 
English  Poetry  and  the  English  Language,  F.  W.  Bateson  has 
argued  that  literature  is  a  part  of  the  general  history  of  language 
and  is  completely  dependent  on  it.  "My  thesis  is  that  the  age's 
imprint  in  a  poem  is  not  to  be  traced  to  the  poet  but  to  the  lan- 
guage. The  real  history  of  poetry  is,  I  believe,  the  history  of  the 
changes  in  the  kind  of  language  in  which  successive  poems  have 
been  written.  And  it  is  these  changes  of  language  only  that  are 
due  to  the  pressure  of  social  and  intellectual  tendencies."  x  Bate- 
son makes  out  a  good  case  for  this  close  dependence  of  poetical 
history  on  linguistic  history.  Certainly  the  evolution  of  English 
poetry  parallels  at  least  the  loose  buoyancy  of  the  Elizabethan 
speech,  the  tamed  clarity  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and  the 
vague  diffuseness  of  Victorian  English.  Linguistic  theories  cer- 
tainly play  an  important  part  in  the  history  of  poetry,  e.g., 
Hobbesian  rationalism,  with  its  stress  on  denotation,  clarity,  and 
scientific  precision,  has  influenced  English  poetry  profoundly 
though  often  deviously. 

One  can  argue,  with  Karl  Vossler,  that  the  "literary  history 
of  certain  periods  would  gain  by  an  analysis  of  the  linguistic 
milieu  at  least  as  much  as  by  the  usual  analyses  of  political,  social, 
and  religious  tendencies  or  the  country  and  climate."  2  Espe- 
cially in  periods  and  countries  where  several  linguistic  conven- 
tions are  struggling  for  domination,  the  uses,  attitudes,  and 
allegiances  of  a  poet  may  be  important  not  only  for  the  develop- 
ment of  the  linguistic  system  but  for  an  understanding  of  his  own 
art.  In  Italy,  the  "language  question"  can  scarcely  be  ignored  by 
literary  historians.  Vossler  has  put  his  study  of  literature  to  con- 

177 


178  Theory  of  Literature 

stant  good  usage  in  his  Frankrekhs  Kultur  im  Spiegel  seiner 
Sfrachentwicklung;  and  in  Russia,  Viktor  Vinogradov  has  care- 
fully analyzed  Pushkin's  use  of  the  different  elements  in  the  cur- 
rent Russian  language:  the  Church  Slavic,  the  popular  speech, 
the  Gallicisms  and  Teutonisms.3 

Yet  surely  Bateson's  case  is  overstated,  and  the  view  that 
poetry  passively  reflects  linguistic  changes  is  impossible  to  accept. 
The  relation  between  language  and  literature  is,  as  we  must 
never  forget,  a  dialectical  relation :  literature  has  profoundly  in- 
fluenced the  development  of  language.  Neither  modern  French 
nor  modern  English  would  be  the  language  it  is  without  its  neo- 
classical literature,  just  as  modern  German  would  not  be  itself 
lacking  the  influence  of  Luther,  Goethe,  and  the  Romantics. 

Nor  is  the  isolation  of  literature  from  direct  intellectual  or 
social  influences  tenable.  Eighteenth-century  poetry  was  limpid 
and  clear  because  the  language  had  become  limpid  and  clear, 
argues  Bateson,  so  that  the  poets,  whether  rationalists  or  not, 
must  use  the  ready-made  instrument.  But  Blake  and  Christopher 
Smart  show  how  men  possessed  by  an  irrational  or  anti-rational 
view  of  the  world  can  transform  poetic  diction  or  revert  to  an 
earlier  phase  of  it. 

Indeed,  the  mere  fact  that  it  is  possible  to  write  not  only  a 
history  of  ideas  but  a  history  also  of  genres,  metrical  patterns, 
and  themes,  which  will  include  literatures  of  several  languages, 
demonstrates  that  literature  cannot  be  completely  dependent  on 
language.  Obviously,  one  must  also  draw  a  distinction  between 
poetry  on  the  one  hand  and  the  novel  and  the  drama  on  the  other. 
F.  W.  Bateson  has  primarily  poetry  in  mindj  and  it  is  hard  to 
deny  that,  when  closely  organized,  poetry  is  intimately  asso- 
ciated with  the  sound  and  meaning  of  a  language. 

The  reasons  are  more  or  less  evident.  Meter  organizes  the 
sound-character  of  language.  It  regularizes  the  rhythm  of  prose, 
approximating  it  to  isochronism,  and  thus  simplifying  the  rela- 
tion between  syllabic  lengths.  It  slows  up  the  tempo,  prolonging 
vowels,  in  order  to  exhibit  their  overtones  or  tone  color  (timbre). 
It  simplifies  and  regularizes  intonation,  the  melody  of  speech.4 
The  influence  of  meter  is,  then,  to  actualize  words:  to  point  them 
and  to  direct  attention  to  their  sound.  In  good  poetry,  the  rela- 
tions between  words  are  very  strongly  emphasized. 


Style  and  Stylistics  179 

The  meaning  of  poetry  is  contextual:  a  word  carries  with  it  not 
only  its  dictionary  meaning  but  an  aura  of  synonyms  and  homo- 
nyms. Words  not  only  have  a  meaning  but  evoke  the  meanings 
of  words  related  either  in  sound,  or  in  sense,  or  in  derivation — or 
even  words  which  are  contrasted  or  excluded. 

Language  study  thus  becomes  extraordinarily  important  for 
the  student  of  poetry.  But  by  language  study  we  mean,  of  course, 
pursuits  usually  ignored  or  slighted  by  professional  linguists. 
Historical  accidence  or  historical  phonology  will  little  concern 
most  students  of  literature.  Save  for  the  rare  questions  of  pro- 
nunciation needed  in  the  history  of  meter  and  rhyme,  the 
modern  student  of  literature  will  not  have  much  use  for  historical 
accidence  or  phonology,  or  even  experimental  phonetics.  But  he 
will  need  linguistics  of  a  specific  kind — first  of  all,  lexicology,  the 
study  of  meaning  and  its  changes.  If  he  has  to  have  a  proper 
grasp  of  the  meaning  of  many  older  words,  the  student  of  older 
English  poetry  can  scarcely  manage  without  the  OED.  Even 
etymology  will  help  him  if  he  is  to  understand  the  Latinized 
vocabulary  of  Milton  or  the  highly  Teutonic  word  formations 
of  Hopkins. 

The  importance  of  linguistic  study  is  not,  of  course,  confined 
to  the  understanding  of  single  words  or  phrases.  Literature  is 
related  to  all  aspects  of  language.  A  work  of  art  is,  first,  a  system 
of  sounds,  hence  a  selection  from  the  sound-system  of  a  given 
language.  Our  discussion  of  euphony,  rhythm,  and  meter  has 
shown  the  importance  of  linguistic  considerations  for  many  of 
these  problems.  Phonemics  seems  indispensable  for  comparative 
metrics  and  a  proper  analysis  of  sound-patterns. 

For  literary  purposes,  the  phonetic  level  of  a  language  can- 
not, of  course,  be  isolated  from  its  meaning.  And,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  structure  of  meaning  is  itself  amenable  to  linguistic 
analysis.  We  can  write  the  grammar  of  a  literary  work  of  art  or 
any  group  of  works  beginning  with  phonology  and  accidence, 
going  on  to  vocabulary  (barbarisms,  provincialisms,  archaisms, 
neologisms),  and  rising  to  syntax  (e.g.,  inversion,  antithesis,  and 
parallelisms). 

There  are  two  points  of  view  from  which  it  is  possible  to  study 
the  language  of  literature.  We  may  use  the  literary  work  only 


180  Theory  of  Literature 

as  a  document  in  linguistic  history.  For  example,  the  Owl  and 
the  Nightingale  and  Sir  Gawain  and  the  Green  Knight  can  il- 
lustrate the  characteristics  of  certain  Middle  English  dialects. 
There  is  rich  material  for  the  history  of  the  English  language 
in  writers  like  Skelton,  Nashe,  and  Ben  Jonson:  a  recent  Swedish 
work,  by  A.  H.  King,  uses  Ben  Jonson's  Poetaster  for  a  careful 
analysis  of  social  and  class  dialects  of  the  time.  Franz  has  done 
a  very  thorough  Shakespeare grammatik.  Lazare  Sainean  has 
written  two  volumes  on  the  language  of  Rabelais.5  In  these 
studies,  however,  literary  works  are  used  as  sources  and  docu- 
ments for  other  purposes,  those  of  linguistic  science.  But 
linguistic  study  becomes  literary  only  when  it  serves  the  study  of 
literature,  when  it  aims  at  investigating  the  aesthetic  effects  of 
language — in  short,  when  it  becomes  stylistics  (at  least,  in  one 
sense  of  this  term).6 

Stylistics,  of  course,  cannot  be  pursued  successfully  without  a 
thorough  grounding  in  general  linguistics,  since  precisely  one 
of  its  central  concerns  is  the  contrast  of  the  language  system  of  a 
literary  work  of  art  with  the  general  usage  of  the  time.  Without 
knowledge  of  what  is  common  speech,  even  unliterary  speech, 
and  what  are  the  different  social  languages  of  a  time,  stylistics 
can  scarcely  transcend  impressionism.  The  assumption  that,  espe- 
cially for  past  periods,  we  know  the  distinction  between  common 
speech  and  artistic  deviation  is,  regrettably,  quite  unfounded. 
Much  closer  study  must  be  given  to  the  diversely  stratified 
speech  of  remote  times  before  we  shall  possess  the  proper  back- 
ground for  judgment  of  the  diction  of  an  author  or  of  a  literary 
movement. 

In  practice,  we  simply  apply,  instinctively,  the  standards  we 
derive  from  our  present-day  usage.  But  such  standards  may  be 
largely  misleading.  In  the  reading  of  much  older  poetry,  we 
need  shut  out  our  modern  linguistic  consciousness.  We  must  for- 
get the  modern  meaning  even  in  such  lines  as  Tennyson's 

And  this  is  well 
To  have  a  dame  indoors,  who  trims  us  up 
And  keeps  us  tight? 

But  if  we  admit  the  necessity  of  historical  reconstruction  in  such 
obvious  cases,  can  we  stipulate  its  possibility  in  all  cases?  Can  we 


Style  and  Stylistics  1 8 1 

ever  learn  Anglo-Saxon  or  Middle  English,  not  to  speak  of 
ancient  Greek,  well  enough  to  forget  our  own  current  language? 
And  if  we  could,  are  we  necessarily  better  critics  by  constituting 
ourselves  linguistic  contemporaries  of  the  author?  Could  not  the 
retention  of  the  modern  association  in  verses  like  Marvell's 

My  vegetable  love  would  grow 
Vaster  than  em-fires  and  more  slow  8 

be  defended  as  an  enrichment  of  its  meanings?  Louis  Teeter 
comments:  "The  grotesque  conception  of  an  erotic  cabbage  out- 
lasting the  pyramids  and  overshadowing  them  seems  the  result 
of  studied  artistry.  We  may  be  sure,  however,  that  Marvell  him- 
self had  no  such  precise  effect  in  mind.  To  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, vegetable  meant  vegetative,  and  the  poet  probably  was 
using  it  in  the  sense  of  the  life-giving  principle.  He  could 
scarcely  have  had  in  mind  the  truck-garden  connotation  that  it 
bears  today."  9  One  may  ask,  with  Teeter,  whether  it  is  desirable 
to  get  rid  of  the  modern  connotation  and  whether,  at  least,  in 
extreme  cases,  it  is  possible.  We  are  again  at  the  question  of  his- 
torical "reconstructionism,"  its  possibility  and  desirability. 

There  have  been  attempts,  like  that  of  Charles  Bally,10  to 
make  stylistics  a  mere  subdivision  of  linguistics  3  but  stylistics, 
whether  an  independent  science  or  not,  has  its  own  very  definite 
problems.  Some  of  these,  it  would  seem,  belong  to  all  or  prac- 
tically all  human  speech.  Stylistics,  conceived  in  this  wide  sense, 
investigates  all  devices  which  aim  at  some  specific  expressive  end 
and  thus  embraces  far  more  than  literature  or  even  rhetoric.  All 
devices  for  securing  emphasis  or  explicitness  can  be  classed  under 
stylistics:  metaphors,  which  permeate  all  languages,  even  of  the 
most  primitive  type;  all  rhetorical  figures;  syntactical  patterns. 
Nearly  every  linguistic  utterance  can  be  studied  from  the  point 
of  view  of  its  expressive  value.  It  seems  impossible  to  ignore  this 
problem  as  the  "behavioristic"  school  of  linguistics  in  America 
very  consciously  does. 

In  traditional  stylistics,  these  questions  are  usually  answered  in 
a  haphazard  and  arbitrary  fashion.  Figures  are  dichotomized  into 
intensifying  or  minimizing.  The  intensifying  figures,  such  as 
repetition,  accumulation,  hyperbole,  and  climax,  have  been  as- 


1 82  Theory  of  Literature 

sociated  with  the  "sublime"  style,  described  in  some  detail  in  the 
famous  Peri  hypsousy  ascribed  to  Longinus.  In  connection  with 
Homer,  and  then  with  Shakespeare,  Milton,  and  Dante,  the 
"grand  style"  has  been  discussed  by  Matthew  Arnold  and  Saints- 
bury,  who  elaborately  confounded  psychological  problems  with 
problems  of  literary  evaluation.11 

It  seems  impossible,  however,  to  prove  that  specific  figures 
and  devices  must,  under  all  circumstances,  have  specific  effects  or 
"expressive  values."  In  the  Bible  and  in  chronicles,  the  co-ordi- 
nate sentence  constructions  ("and  .  .  .  and  .  .  .  and")  have  a 
leisurely  effect  of  narration ;  yet  in  a  romantic  poem,  a  series  of 
"ands"  may  be  steps  in  a  stair  of  breathlessly  excited  questions. 
A  hyperbole  may  be  tragic  or  pathetic,  but  it  may  also  be  gro- 
tesque and  comic.  Besides,  certain  figures  or  syntactic  features 
recur  so  frequently,  and  in  so  many  different  contexts,  that  they 
cannot  have  specific  expressive  meaning.  One  notices  that  Cicero 
uses  litotes  or  a  fraeteritio  several  times  in  a  few  pages ;  one 
counts  so  many  hundred  balances  in  the  Ramblers  of  Johnson. 
Both  practices  suggest  play  with  words,  disregard  of  meaning.12 

But  while  the  atomistic  view  of  a  one-to-one  relation  between 
a  figure  and  a  specific  "expressive  value"  must  be  abandoned,  the 
establishment  of  a  specific  relation  between  stylistic  traits  and 
effects  is  not  impossible.  One  way  is  to  show  that  certain  figures 
recur  again  and  again,  combined  with  other  recurrent  figures,  in 
passages  with  certain  meaning-tone:  sublime,  comic,  graceful,  or 
naive.  One  can  argue,  as  W.  K.  Wimsatt  does,  that  mere  repeti- 
tion of  a  device  does  not  make  it  meaningless.  "Sentence-patterns 
recur,  like  declensions  and  conjugations ;  but  they  are  still  ex- 
pressive forms."  13  One  need  not  be  content,  after  the  manner  of 
classical  antiquity,  with  classifying  styles  as  high  and  low,  Asiatic 
and  Attic,  and  the  like ;  one  can  think  out  complex  schemes  such 
as  those  propounded  in  Wilhelm  Schneider's  Ausdruckswerte 
der  deutschen  Sfrache  (1931).  According  to  the  relations  of 
words  to  the  object,  styles  are  divisible  into  conceptual  and  sen- 
suous, succinct  and  long-winded,  or  minimizing  and  exaggerat- 
ing, decisive  and  vague,  quiet  and  excited,  low  and  high,  simple 
and  decorated  j  according  to  the  relations  among  the  words,  into 
tense  and  lax,  plastic  and  musical,  smooth  and  rough,  colorless 
and  colorful  3  according  to  the  relations  of  words  to  the  total  sys- 


Style  and  Stylistics  183 

tern  of  the  language,  into  spoken  and  written,  cliche  and  indi- 
vidual ;  and,  according  to  the  relation  of  the  words  to  the  author, 
into  objective  and  subjective.14  These  classifications  can  be  ap- 
plied to  practically  all  linguistic  utterances ;  but  obviously  most 
of  the  evidence  is  drawn  from  works  of  literature  and  directed 
to  an  analysis  of  literary  style.  Thus  conceived,  stylistics  seems  to 
have  found  the  right  mean  between  the  old  disjointed  study  of 
figures  based  on  the  classifications  of  rhetoric  and  the  more 
grandiose  but  less  concrete  speculations  on  period  styles  (the 
Gothic  or  Baroque). 

Much  of  this  work,  unfortunately,  has  been  inspired  either  by 
narrowly  prescriptive  purposes — which  make  stylistics  the  recom- 
mendation of  a  certain  "middle"  style  of  exposition,  with  its 
ideals  of  precision  and  clarity,  and  presently  a  pedagogic 
discipline — or  by  nationalistic  exaltation  of  a  specific  language. 
The  Germans  are  especially  guilty  of  fanciful  generalizations  on 
the  differences  between  the  main  European  languages.  Even 
prominent  scholars  like  Wechssler,  Vossler,  and  Deutschbein  15 
indulge  in  conjectures  not  really  verifiable  and  rush  to  conclu- 
sions about  national  psychology.  This  is  not  to  deny  the  existence 
of  a  problem:  the  "behavioristic"  point  of  view  that  all  languages 
are  equal  seems  manifestly  absurd  if  we  compare  a  language 
without  developed  literature  with  one  of  the  great  European 
languages.  The  great  European  languages  differ  widely  in  syn- 
tactical patterns,  "idioms,"  and  other  conventions,  as  any  trans- 
lator has  discovered.  For  certain  purposes,  English  or  French  or 
German  seems  less  fit  than  one  of  its  rivals.  But  the  differences 
are  undoubtedly  due  to  social,  historical,  and  literary  influences 
which,  though  describable,  have  not  yet  been  described  fully 
enough  to  warrant  reduction  to  basic  national  psychologies.  A 
"comparative"  stylistics  seems  a  science  of  the  distant  future. 

A  purely  literary  and  aesthetic  use  of  stylistics  limits  it  to  the 
study  of  a  work  of  art  or  a  group  of  works  which  are  to  be  de- 
scribed in  terms  of  their  aesthetic  function  and  meaning.  Only  if 
this  aesthetic  interest  is  central  will  stylistics  be  a  part  of  literary 
scholarship;  and  it  will  be  an  important  part  because  only 
stylistic  methods  can  define  the  specific  characteristics  of  a  literary 
work.  There  are  two  possible  methods  of  approaching  such  a 
stylistic  analysis :  the  first  is  to  proceed  by  a  systematic  analysis  of 


184  Theory  of  Literature 

its  linguistic  system  and  to  interpret  its  features,  in  terms  of  the 
aesthetic  purpose  of  the  work,  as  "total  meaning."  Style  then 
appears  as  the  individual  linguistic  system  of  a  work,  or  a  group 
of  works.  A  second,  not  contradictory,  approach  is  to  study  the 
sum  of  individual  traits  by  which  this  system  differs  from  com- 
parable systems.  The  method  here  is  that  of  contrast:  we  observe 
the  deviations  and  distortions  from  normal  usage,  and  try  to 
discover  their  aesthetic  purpose.  In  ordinary  communicative 
speech,  no  attention  is  drawn  to  the  sound  of  words,  or  to  word 
order  (which,  in  English  at  least,  will  normally  pass  from  actor 
to  action),  or  to  sentence  structure  (which  will  be  enumerative, 
co-ordinate).  A  first  step  in  stylistic  analysis  will  be  to  observe 
such  deviations  as  the  repetitions  of  sound,  the  inversion  of  word 
order,  the  construction  of  involved  hierarchies  of  clauses,  all  of 
which  must  serve  some  aesthetic  function  such  as  emphasis  or 
explicitness  or  their  opposites — the  aesthetically  justified  blurring 
of  distinctions  or  obscurity. 

With  some  works  and  some  authors,  such  a  task  will  be  com- 
paratively easy.  The  sound-schemes  and  similes  drawn  from  the 
bestiaries  in  Lyly's  Euphues  are  unmistakable.16  Spenser,  who, 
according  to  Jonson,  wrote  "no  language,"  uses  an  easily  ana- 
lyzable  set  of  archaisms,  neologisms,  and  provincialisms.17  Mil- 
ton not  only  uses  a  Latinized  vocabulary,  in  which  English  words 
have  the  sense  of  their  archetypes,  but  also  has  his  own  charac- 
teristic sentence  structures.  The  diction  of  Gerard  Manley  Hop- 
kins is  characterized  by  its  Saxon  and  dialectal  words,  its  studied 
avoidance  of  the  Latin  vocabulary,  prompted  by  theory  and 
backed  by  a  movement  of  linguistic  Teutonizers,  and  its  peculiar 
word  formations  and  compounds.18  It  is  not  difficult  to  analyze 
the  style  of  such  pronouncedly  "mannered"  authors  as  Carlyle, 
Meredith,  Pater,  or  Henry  James,  or  even  of  authors  who, 
though  of  little  artistic  importance,  cultivated  their  idiosyn- 
crasies. 

In  many  other  cases,  however,  it  will  be  far  more  difficult  to 
isolate  and  define  the  stylistic  characteristics  of  an  author.  A  deli- 
cate ear  and  subtle  observation  are  needed  to  discern  a  recurrent 
trait,  especially  in  writers  who,  like  many  Elizabethan  dramatists 
or  eighteenth-century  essayists,  use  a  uniform  style.  One  must  be 
skeptical  of  such  claims  as  J.  M.  Robertson's  that  certain  words 


Style  and  Stylistics  185 

or  "idioms"  are  the  exclusive  signatures  of  men  like  Peele, 
Greene,  Marlowe,  and  Kyd.19  In  many  of  these  investigations, 
stylistic  analysis  is  indiscriminately  combined  with  study  of  con- 
tent-links, sources,  and  other  matters  such  as  recurrent  allusions. 
When  that  is  the  case,  stylistics  serves  only  as  a  tool  for  a  dif- 
ferent purpose:  the  identification  of  an  author,  the  establishment 
of  authenticity,  a  detective  job  at  most  preparatory  to  literary 
study. 

Difficult  practical  problems  are  raised  by  the  existence  of 
prevalent  styles,  by  the  power  of  a  single  author  to  excite  imita- 
tion and  vogue.  Formerly,  the  idea  of  genre  had  a  powerful 
force  upon  stylistic  tradition.  In  Chaucer,  for  example,  there  is 
a  wide  differentiation  of  styles  between  the  individual  stories  of 
the  Canterbury  Tales  and,  more  generally,  between  his  works  of 
different  periods  and  literary  types.  In  the  eighteenth  century,  a 
Pindaric  ode,  a  satire,  a  ballad  had  each  its  own  required  vocabu- 
lary and  style.  "Poetic  diction"  was  confined  to  specific  genres, 
while  a  homely  vocabulary  was  permitted  or  even  prescribed  in 
low  genres.  Even  Wordsworth,  in  spite  of  his  condemnation  of 
poetic  diction,  wrote  very  differently  when  he  composed  an  ode, 
a  topographical  reflective  poem  like  T intern  Abbey,  a  Miltonic 
sonnet,  or  a  "lyrical  ballad."  If  we  ignore  such  distinctions,  we 
characterize  but  futilely  the  style  of  an  author  who  has  cultivated 
many  genres  or  passed  through  a  long  personal  evolution.  It  is 
probably  best  to  speak  of  the  "styles"  of  Goethe,  since  we  can- 
not reconcile  the  enormous  differences  between  the  early  Sturm 
und  Drang  style,  that  of  the  classical  period,  and  the  late,  pom- 
pous and  involved  manner  of  the  Elective  Affinities. 

This  method  of  stylistic  analysis — of  concentrating  on  the 
peculiarities  of  style,  on  traits  differentiating  it  from  the  sur- 
rounding linguistic  systems — has  obvious  dangers.  We  are  likely 
to  accumulate  isolated  observations,  specimens  of  the  marked 
traits,  and  to  forget  that  a  work  of  art  is  a  whole.  We  are  likely 
to  overstress  "originality,"  individuality,  the  merely  idiosyn- 
cratic. Preferable  is  the  attempt  to  describe  a  style  completely 
and  systematically,  according  to  linguistic  principles.  In  Russia, 
Viktor  Vinogradov  has  written  masterly  studies  of  Pushkin's  and 
Tolstoy's  language.  In  Poland  and  in  Czechoslovakia,  systematic 


1 86  Theory  of  Literature 

stylistics  has  attracted  many  able  practitioners  j  and  in  Spain, 
Damaso  Alonso  has  begun  the  systematic  analysis  of  Gongora's 
poetry,  while  Amado  Alonso  has  sensitively  analyzed  the  poetic 
style  of  Pablo  Neruda.20  The  danger  of  the  method  is  the  ideal 
of  a  "scientific"  completeness.  The  analyst  may  forget  that 
artistic  effect  and  emphasis  are  not  identical  with  the  mere  fre- 
quency of  a  device.  Thus  Miss  Josephine  Miles  is  misled  by 
statistical  evidence  into  stressing  the  Pre-Raphaelite  element  in 
Hopkins'  diction.21 

Stylistic  analysis  seems  most  profitable  to  literary  study  when 
it  can  establish  some  unifying  principle,  some  general  aesthetic 
aim  pervasive  of  a  whole  work.  If  we  take,  for  example,  an 
eighteenth-century  descriptive  poet  such  as  James  Thomson,  we 
should  be  able  to  show  how  his  stylistic  traits  interlock.  The 
Miltonic  blank  verse  puts  certain  denials  and  demands  on  the 
choice  of  vocabulary.  The  vocabulary  requires  periphrasis,  and 
periphrasis  implies  a  tension  between  word  and  thing:  the  object 
is  not  named  but  its  qualities  are  enumerated.  Stress  on  qualities 
and  their  enumeration  implies  description ;  and  the  particular 
type  of  nature  description  practiced  in  the  eighteenth  century 
implies  a  specific  philosophy,  the  argument  from  design.  In  his 
book  on  Pope,  and  his  essays  on  eighteenth-century  poetic  dic- 
tion, Geoffrey  Tillotson  has  accumulated  many  acute  observa- 
tions of  this  kind,  e.g.,  on  the  peculiar  ideology  of  poetic  diction, 
its  "Physico-theological  nomenclature,"  as  he  calls  it ;  but  he  has 
failed  to  integrate  them  into  a  total  analysis  of  the  style.22  Such 
a  procedure,  leading  from  metrical  considerations  to  problems  of 
content  and  even  philosophy  must  not,  of  course,  be  misunder- 
stood to  mean  a  process  ascribing  priority,  either  logical  or 
chronological,  to  any  one  of  these  elements.  Ideally,  we  should 
be  able  to  start  at  any  given  point  and  should  arrive  at  the  same 
results. 

This  type  of  demonstration  shows  how  stylistic  analysis  can 
easily  lead  to  problems  of  content.  In  an  intuitive,  unsystematic 
fashion,  critics  have  long  analyzed  styles  as  expressive  of  particu- 
lar philosophical  attitudes.  In  his  Goethe,  Gundolf  sensitively 
analyzed  the  language  of  the  early  poems,  showing  how  the 
poet's  dynamic  speech  reflects  his  turn  toward  a  dynamic  con- 
ception of  nature.23   Hermann  Nohl   has  tried  to  show  that 


Style  and  Stylistics  187 

stylistic  traits  can  be  associated  with  the  three  types  of  philosophy 
devised  by  Dilthey.24 

German  scholars  have  also  developed  a  more  systematic  ap- 
proach, called  Motif/  und  Wort,  based  on  the  assumption  of 
a  parallelism  between  linguistic  traits  and  content-elements.  Leo 
Spitzer  early  applied  it  by  investigating  the  recurrence  of  such 
motifs  as  blood  and  wounds  in  the  writings  of  Henri  Barbusse, 
and  Josef  Korner  has  fully  studied  the  motifs  in  Arthur 
Schnitzler's  writings.25  Later,  Spitzer  has  tried  to  establish  the 
connection  between  recurrent  stylistic  traits  and  the  philosophy 
of  the  author,  e.g.,  he  connects  the  repetitive  style  of  Peguy  with 
his  Bergsonism  and  the  style  of  Jules  Romains  with  his 
Unanimism.  Analysis  of  the  word  myths  of  Christian  Morgen- 
stern  (the  author  of  nonsense  verse  vaguely  comparable  to  Lewis 
Carroll's)  shows  that  he  must  have  read  Mauthner's  nominalistic 
Kritik  der  S-prachey  drawing  from  it  the  conclusion  that  over  an 
impenetrably  dark  world  language  only  swathes  further  veils.26 

Some  of  Leo  Spitzer's  papers  go  very  far  in  inferring  the  psy- 
chological characteristics  of  an  author  from  the  traits  of  his  style. 
Proust  lends  himself  to  such  a  procedure ;  in  Charles  Louis 
Phillipe,  there  is  the  recurrent  construction  "a  cause  de"  inter- 
preted as  a  "fseudo-objektive  Motivierung"  implying  a  belief 
in  fatalism;  in  Rabelais,  Spitzer  analyzes  word  formations  which, 
using  a  known  root  such  as  Sorbonne,  combine  it  with  dozens  of 
fantastic  suffixes  for  the  creation  of  multitudinous  repulsive 
nicknames  (e.g.,  Sorb onnagre,  Sorbonne  +  onagre,  wild  ass),  in 
order  to  show  that  there  is  in  Rabelais  a  tension  between  the  real 
and  the  unreal,  between  comedy  and  horror,  between  Utopia 
and  naturalism.27  The  basic  assumption  is  here,  as  Spitzer  formu- 
lates it,  that  a  "mental  excitement  which  deviates  from  the 
normal  habitus  of  our  mental  life  must  have  a  co-ordinate 
linguistic  deviation  from  normal  usage."  2S 

But  this  principle  seems  questionable.  In  much  of  his  later 
work,  e.g.,  his  brilliant  study  of  "Klassische  Dampfung  in 
Racine,"  Spitzer  has  confined  himself  to  an  analysis  of  stylistic 
traits.29  Indeed,  however  ingenious  some  of  its  suggestions  may 
be,  psychological  stylistics  seems  open  to  two  objections.  Many 
relationships  professing  to  be  thus  established  are  not  based  on 
conclusions  really  drawn  from  the  linguistic  material  but  rather 


1 88  Theory  of  Literature 

start  with  a  psychological  and  ideological  analysis  and  seek  for 
confirmation  in  the  language.  This  would  be  unexceptionable  if 
in  practice  the  linguistic  confirmation  did  not  itself  seem  fre- 
quently strained  or  based  on  very  slight  evidence.  Work  of  this 
type  often  assumes  that  true,  or  great,  art  must  be  based  on  ex- 
perience, Erlebnisy  a  term  which  invokes  a  slightly  revised  ver- 
sion of  the  biographical  fallacy.  Furthermore,  the  assumption  of 
a  necessary  relationship  between  certain  stylistic  devices  and  cer- 
tain states  of  mind  would  appear  fallacious.  For  example,  in  the 
discussion  of  the  Baroque,  most  German  scholars  assume  an  in- 
evitable correspondence  between  dense,  obscure,  twisted  lan- 
guage and  a  turbulent,  divided,  and  tormented  soul.30  But  an 
obscure,  twisted  style  can  certainly  be  cultivated  by  craftsmen 
and  technicians.  The  whole  relationship  between  psyche  and 
word  is  looser  and  more  oblique  than  is  usually  assumed. 

Thus  German  Stilforschung  has  to  be  treated  with  consider- 
able caution.  Frequently,  it  would  appear  to  be  only  a  disguised 
genetic  psychology,  and  assuredly  its  assumptions  are  very  dif- 
ferent from  those  of  Grace's  aesthetics,  usually  considered  its 
model.  In  Croce's  system,  which  is  completely  monistic,  no  dis- 
tinction can  be  made  between  state  of  mind  and  linguistic  ex- 
pression. Croce  consistently  denies  the  validity  of  all  stylistic 
and  rhetorical  categories,  che  distinction  between  style  and  form, 
between  form  and  content,  and  ultimately,  between  word  and 
soul,  expression  and  intuition.  In  Croce,  this  series  of  identifica- 
tion leads  to  a  theoretical  paralysis:  an  initially  genuine  insight 
into  the  implications  of  the  poetical  process  is  pushed  so  far  that 
no  distinctions  are  possible.  It  now  seems  clear  that  process  and 
work,  form  and  content,  expression  and  style,  must  be  kept  apart, 
provisionally  and  in  precarious  suspense,  till  the  final  unity:  only 
thus  are  possible  the  whole  translation  and  rationalization  which 
constitute  the  process  of  criticism. 

If  we  can  describe  the  style  of  a  work  or  of  an  author,  there  is 
no  doubt  that  we  can  also  describe  the  style  of  a  group  of  works, 
of  a  genre:  the  Gothic  novel,  the  Elizabethan  drama,  the  Meta- 
physical poem  -j  that  we  can  also  analyze  stylistic  types  such  as 
the  Baroque  style  of  seventeenth-century  prose.31  One  can  gen- 
eralize even  further  and  describe  the  style  of  a  period  or  move- 
ment. In  practice,  this  seems  extraordinarily  difficult  to  do  with 


Style  and  Stylistics  1 89 

any  empirical  closeness.  Books  like  E.  Barat's  Le  Style  foetique 
et  la  revolution  romantique  or  Luise  Thon's  Die  Sfrache  des 
deutschen  Imfressionismus  trace  many  stylistic  devices  or  traits 
of  syntax  and  vocabulary  in  a  whole  school  or  movement.32  And 
much  has  been  done  to  describe  the  style  of  Old  Teutonic 
poetry.33  But  these  are  mostly  communal  styles,  fairly  uniform 
in  their  nature,  which  can  be  treated  almost  like  the  works  of  a 
single  author.  The  stylistic  description  of  whole  ages  and  whole 
literary  movements  like  Classicism  and  Romanticism  encounters 
almost  unsurmountable  difficulties,  since  we  must  find  the  com- 
mon denominator  between  the  most  diverse  writers,  sometimes 
writers  of  many  countries. 

As  art  history  has  established  a  widely  accepted  series  of  styles, 
e.g.,  the  Classical,  the  Gothic,  the  Renaissance,  and  the  Baroque, 
it  seems  attractive  to  try  to  transfer  these  terms  into  literature. 
But  in  so  doing,  we  have  come  back  to  the  question  of  the  relation 
between  the  arts  and  literature,  the  parallelism  of  the  arts,  and 
the  succession  of  the  great  periods  of  our  civilization. 


CHAPTER   XV 

Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth 

When  we  turn  from  classifying  poems  by  their  subject  matter 
or  themes  to  asking  what  kind  of  discourse  poetry  is,  and  when, 
instead  of  prose-paraphrasing,  we  identify  the  "meaning"  of  a 
poem  with  its  whole  complex  of  structures,  we  then  encounter, 
as  central  poetic  structure,  the  sequence  represented  by  the  four 
terms  of  our  title.  The  two  main  organizing  principles  of  poetry, 
one  of  our  contemporaries  has  said,  are  meter  and  metaphor  j 
moreover,  "metre  and  metaphor  'belong  together,'  and  our  defi- 
nition of  poetry  will  have  to  be  general  enough  to  include  them 
both  and  explain  their  companionship."  *  The  general  theory  of 
poetry  implied  by  this  statement  was  brilliantly  expounded  by 
Coleridge  in  Biografhia  Liter  aria. 

Have  we,  in  these  four  terms,  a  single  referent?  Semantically, 
the  terms  overlap ;  they  clearly  point  to  the  same  area  of  interest. 
Perhaps  our  sequence — image,  metaphor,  symbol,  and  myth — 
may  be  said  to  represent  the  convergence  of  two  lines,  both  im- 
portant for  the  theory  of  poetry.  One  is  sensuous  particularity, 
or  the  sensuous  and  aesthetic  continuum,  which  connects  poetry 
with  music  and  painting  and  disconnects  it  from  philosophy  and 
science  j  the  other  is  "figuration"  or  "tropology" — the  "oblique" 
discourse  which  speaks  in  metonyms  and  metaphors,  partially 
comparing  worlds,  precising  its  themes  by  giving  them  imprac- 
tical translations  into  other  idioms.2  These  are  both  characteris- 
tics, differentiae,  of  literature,  in  contrast  to  scientific  discourse. 
Instead  of  aiming  at  a  system  of  abstractions  consistently  ex- 
pressed by  a  system  of  monosigns,  poetry  organizes  a  unique, 
unrepeatable  pattern  of  words,  each  an  object  as  well  as  a  sign 
and  used  in  a  fashion  unpredictable  by  any  system  outside  of  the 
poem.3 

The  semantic  difficulties  of  our  topic  are  troublesome,  and  no 
ready  relief  seems  possible  beyond  constant  vigilant  attention  to 

190 


Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  191 

how  terms  are  used  in  their  contexts,  especially  to  their  polar 
oppositions. 

Imagery  is  a  topic  which  belongs  both  to  psychology  and  to 
literary  study.  In  psychology,  the  word  "image"  means  a  mental 
reproduction,  a  memory,  of  a  past  sensational  or  perceptual  ex- 
perience, not  necessarily  visual.  The  pioneer  investigations  of 
Francis  Gal  ton,  in  1880,  sought  to  discover  how  far  men  could 
visually  reproduce  the  past,  and  found  that  men  greatly  differed 
in  their  degree  of  visualization.  But  imagery  is  not  visual  only. 
The  classifications  of  psychologists  and  aestheticians  are  nu- 
merous. There  are  not  only  "gustatory"  and  "olfactory"  images, 
but  there  are  thermal  images  and  pressure  images  ("kinaes- 
thetic,"  "haptic,"  "empathic").  There  is  the  important  distinc- 
tion between  static  imagery  and  kinetic  (or  "dynamic").  The  use 
of  color  imagery  may  or  may  not  be  traditionally  or  privately 
symbolic.  Synaesthetic  imagery  (whether  the  result  of  the  poet's 
abnormal  psychological  constitution  or  of  literary  convention) 
translates  from  one  sense  into  another,  e.g.,  sound  into  color. 
Finally,  there  is  the  distinction,  useful  for  the  reader  of  poetry, 
between  "tied"  and  "free"  imagery:  the  former,  auditory  and 
muscular  imagery  necessarily  aroused  even  though  one  reads  to 
himself  and  approximately  the  same  for  all  adequate  readers ; 
the  latter,  visual  and  else,  varying  much  from  person  to  person 
or  type  to  type.4 

I.  A.  Richards'  general  conclusions,  as  given  in  his  Principles 
of  1924,  still  seem  sound:  that  "Too  much  importance  has  always 
been  attached  to  the  sensory  qualities  of  images.  What  gives  an 
image  efficacy  is  less  its  vividness  as  an  image  than  its  character 
as  a  mental  event  peculiarly  connected  with  sensation."  Its  ef- 
ficacy comes  from  its  being  "a  relict"  and  a  "representation"  of 
sensation.5 

From  images  as  the  vestigial  representatives  of  sensations  we 
move  with  instructive  ease  to  the  second  line  which  runs  through 
our  whole  area — that  of  analogy  and  comparison.  Even  visual 
images  are  not  to  be  looked  for  exclusively  in  descriptive  poetry ; 
and  few  who  have  attempted  to  write  "imagist"  or  "physical" 
poetry  have  succeeded  in  restricting  themselves  to  pictures  of  the 
external  world.  Rarely,  indeed,  have  they  wished  to  do  so.  Ezra 
Pound,   theorist   of   several    poetic   movements,   defined   the 


192     •  Theory  of  Literature 

"image"  not  as  a  pictorial  representation  but  as  "that  which  pre- 
sents an  intellectual  and  emotional  complex  in  an  instant  of 
time,"  a  "unification  of  disparate  ideas."  The  Imagist  credo  as- 
serted, "we  believe  that  poetry  should  render  particulars  exactly 
and  not  deal  in  vague  generalities,  however  .  .  .  sonorous."  In 
his  praise  of  Dante  and  his  attacks  on  Milton,  Eliot  seems  to 
hold  more  dogmatically  to  the  emphasis  on  Bildlichkeit.  Dante's, 
he  says,  "is  a  visual  imagination."  He  is  an  allegorist,  and  "for 
a  competent  poet,  allegory  means  'clear  visual  imagery.'  "  On 
the  other  hand  Milton's  is,  unfortunately,  an  "auditory  imagi- 
nation." The  visual  imagery  in  "L'Allegro"  and  "II  Penseroso" 
is  "all  general  ...  it  is  not  a  particular  ploughman,  milkmaid, 
and  shepherd  that  Milton  sees  .  .  .  ;  the  sensuous  effect  of 
these  verses  is  entirely  on  the  ear,  and  is  joined  to  the  concepts 
of  ploughman,  milkmaid,  and  shepherd."  6 

In  all  of  these  pronouncements,  the  stress  is  rather  on  'par- 
ticularity and  the  union  of  worlds  (analogy,  e.g.,  allegory  5  "uni- 
fication of  disparate  ideas")  than  it  is  on  the  sensuous.  The  visual 
image  is  a  sensation  or  a  perception,  but  it  also  "stands  for," 
refers  to,  something  invisible,  something  "inner."  It  can  be  both 
presentation  and  representation  at  once  ("the  black  bat  night  has 
flown"  .  .  .  "Yonder  all  before  us  lie  Desarts  of  vast  eter- 
nity"). The  image  may  exist  as  "description"  or  (as  in  our  ex- 
amples) as  metaphor.  But  may  the  images  not  offered  as  meta- 
phor, as  seen  by  the  "mind's  eye,"  also  be  symbolic?  Is  not  every 
perception  selective?  7 

So  Middleton  Murry,  who  thinks  of  "simile"  and  "metaphor" 
as  associated  with  the  "formal  classification"  of  rhetoric,  advises 
the  use  of  "image"  as  a  term  to  include  both,  but  warns  that  we 
must  "resolutely  exclude  from  our  minds  the  suggestion  that 
the  image  is  solely  or  even  predominantly  visual."  The  image 
"may  be  visual,  may  be  auditory,"  or  "may  be  wholly  psycho- 
logical." Analogous  is  the  practice  of  Louis  MacNeice.  Though 
he  distinguishes  his  terms,  using  "properties"  (cf.  "stage  prop- 
erties") for  perceptions  and  reserving  "images"  for  metaphor, 
he  observes  the  difficulty  of  holding  to  the  distinction:  for  "the 
properties  themselves  may  be,  in  the  ultimate  analysis,  only 
symbols."  Of  Wordsworth,  MacNeice  remarks  that  he  "does 
not  require  many  images  because  his  properties  carry  their  own 


Imagey  Metafhor,  Symbol,  Myth  193 

message."  8  In  writers  as  different  as  Shakespearer  Emily  Bronte, 
and  Poe,  we  can  see  that  the  setting  (a  system  of  "properties") 
is  often  a  metaphor  or  symbol:  the  raging  sea,  the  storm,  the  wild 
moor,  the  decaying  castle  by  the  dank,  dark  tarn. 

Like  "image,"  "symbol"  has  given  its  name  to  a  specific  lit- 
erary movement.9  Like  "image,"  again,  it  continues  to  appear  in 
widely  different  contexts  and  very  different  purposes.  It  appears 
as  a  term  in  logic,  in  mathematics,  in  semantics  and  semiotics 
and  epistemologyj  it  has  also  had  a  long  history  in  the  worlds  of 
theology  ("symbol"  is  one  synonym  for  "creed"),  of  liturgy,  of 
the  fine  arts,  and  of  poetry.  The  shared  element  in  all  these  cur- 
rent uses  is  probably  that  of  something  standing  for,  represent- 
ing, something  else.  But  the  Greek  verb,  which  means  to  throw 
together,  to  compare,  suggests  that  the  idea  of  analogy  between 
sign  and  signified  was  originally  present.  It  still  survives  in  some 
of  the  modern  uses  of  the  term.  Algebraic  and  logical  "symbols" 
are  conventional,  agreed-upon  signs ;  but  religious  symbols  are 
based  on  some  intrinsic  relation  between  "sign"  and  thing  "sig- 
nified," metonymic  or  metaphoric:  the  Cross,  the  Lamb,  the 
Good  Shepherd.  In  literary  theory,  it  seems  desirable  that  the 
word  should  be  used  in  this  sense:  as  an  object  which  refers  to 
another  object  but  which  demands  attention  also  in  its  own  right, 
as  a  presentation.10 

There  is  a  kind  of  mind  which  speaks  of  "mere  symbolism," 
either  reducing  religion  and  poetry  to  sensuous  images  ritualis- 
tically  arranged  or  evacuating  the  presented  "signs"  or  "images" 
in  behalf  of  the  transcendental  realities,  moral  or  philosophical, 
which  lie  beyond  them.  Another  kind  of  mind  thinks  of  a  sym- 
bolism as  something  calculated  and  willed,  a  deliberate  mental 
translation  of  concepts  into  illustrative,  pedagogic,  sensuous 
terms.  But,  says  Coleridge,  while  allegory  is  merely  "a  transla- 
tion of  abstract  notions  into  a  picture  language,  which  is  itself 
nothing  but  an  abstraction  from  objects  of  the  senses  .  .  .  ,"  a 
symbol  "is  characterized  by  a  translucence  of  the  special  [the 
species]  in  the  individual,  or  of  the  general  [genus]  in  the  spe- 
cial .  .  .  ;  above  all,  by  the  translucence  of  the  eternal  through 
and  in  the  temporal."  X1 

Is  there  any  important  sense  in  which  "symbol"  differs  from 
"image"  and  "metaphor"?  Primarily,  we  think,  in  the  recurrence 


194  Theory  of  Literature 

and  persistence  of  the  "symbol."  An  "image"  may  be  invoked 
once  as  a  metaphor,  but  if  it  persistently  recurs,  both  as  presenta- 
tion and  representation,  it  becomes  a  symbol,  may  even  become 
part  of  a  symbolic  (or  mythic)  system.  Of  Blake's  early  lyrics, 
the  Songs  of  Innocence  and  of  Experience,  J.  H.  Wicksteed 
writes:  "There  is  comparatively  little  actual  symbolism,  but 
there  is  constant  and  abundant  use  of  symbolic  metaphor."  Yeats 
has  an  early  essay  on  the  "Ruling  Symbols"  in  Shelley's  poetry. 
"One  finds  in  his  poetry,  besides  innumerable  images  that  have 
not  the  definiteness  [fixity?]  of  symbols,  many  images  that  are 
certainly  symbols,  and  as  the  years  went  by  he  began  to  use  these 
with  more  and  more  deliberately  symbolic  purpose" — such 
images  as  caves  and  towers.12 

What  happens  with  impressive  frequency  is  the  turning  of 
what,  in  a  writer's  early  work,  is  "property"  into  the  "symbol" 
of  his  later  work.  Thus  in  his  early  novels,  Henry  James  pains- 
takingly visualizes  persons  and  places,  while,  in  the  later  novels, 
all  the  images  have  become  metaphoric  or  symbolic. 

Whenever  poetic  symbolism  is  discussed,  the  distinction  is 
likely  to  be  made  between  the  "private  symbolism"  of  the 
modern  poet  and  the  widely  intelligible  symbolism  of  past  poets. 
The  phrase  was  first,  at  least,  an  indictment ;  but  our  feelings  and 
attitude  toward  poetic  symbolism  remain  highly  ambivalent.  The 
alternative  to  "private"  is  difficult  to  phrase:  if  "conventional"  or 
"traditional,"  we  clash  with  our  desire  that  poetry  should  be 
new  and  surprising.  "Private  symbolism"  implies  a  system, 
and  a  careful  student  can  construe  a  "private  symbolism"  as  a 
cryptographer  can  decode  an  alien  message.  Many  private  sys- 
tems (e.g.,  those  of  Blake  and  Yeats)  have  large  overlap  with 
symbolical  traditions,  even  though  not  with  those  most  widely 
or  currently  accepted.13 

When  we  get  beyond  "private  symbolism"  and  "traditional 
symbolism,"  there  is,  at  the  other  pole,  a  kind  of  public  "natural" 
symbolism  which  offers  its  own  difficulties.  Frost's  poems,  some 
of  the  best  of  them,  use  natural  symbols  the  reference  of  which 
we  find  it  difficult  to  control:  we  think  of  "The  Road  Not 
Taken,"  "Walls,"  "The  Mountain."  In  "Stopping  by  Woods," 
"miles  to  go  before  I  sleep"  is  literally  true  of  the  traveler,  we 
assume  j  but  in  the  language  of  natural  symbolism,  to  "sleep"  is 


Imagey  Metafhor }  Symbol,  Myth  1 95 

to  "die"  j  and,  if  one  couples  by  contrast  the  "woods  are  lovely, 
dark,  and  deep"  (all  three  adjectives  panegyric)  with  the  moral 
and  social  check  of  "promises  to  keep,"  one  can't  wholly  reject 
the  passing,  not  insisted  on,  equation  of  aesthetic  contemplation 
with  some  kind  of  ceasing  to  be  as  a  responsible  person.  Pre- 
sumably no  constant  reader  of  poetry  will  go  wrong  with  Frost ; 
but,  partly  because  of  his  natural  symbolism,  Frost  has  drawn  a 
wide  audience,  some  of  whom,  once  grasping  the  possibility  of 
symbols,  will  bear  down  too  heavily  on  both  the  natural  symbols 
and  their  companions,  giving  to  his  plurisigns  a  fixity  and  rigidity 
alien  to  the  nature  of  poetic  statement,  especially  contemporary 
poetic  statement.14 

The  fourth  of  our  terms  is  "myth,"  which  appears  in  Aris- 
totle's Poetics  as  the  word  for  plot,  narrative  structure,  "fable." 
Its  antonym  and  counterpoint  is  logos.  The  "myth"  is  narrative, 
story,  as  against  dialectical  discourse,  exposition  ;  it  is  also  the  ir- 
rational or  intuitive  as  against  the  systematically  philosophical: 
it  is  the  tragedy  of  Aeschylus  against  the  dialectic  of  Socrates.15 

"Myth,"  a  favorite  term  of  modern  criticism,  points  to,  hovers 
over,  an  important  area  of  meaning,  shared  by  religion,  folklore, 
anthropology,  sociology,  psychoanalysis,  and  the  fine  arts.  In 
some  of  its  habitual  oppositions,  it  is  contraposed  to  "history,"  or 
to  "science,"  or  to  "philosophy,"  or  to  "allegory"  or  to  "truth."  16 

In  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries,  the  Age  of  the 
Enlightenment,  the  term  had  commonly  a  pejorative  connota- 
tion: a  myth  was  a  fiction — scientifically  or  historically  untrue. 
But  already  in  the  Scienza  Nuova  of  Vico,  the  emphasis  has 
shifted  to  what,  since  the  German  Romanticists,  Coleridge, 
Emerson,  and  Nietzsche,  has  become  gradually  dominant — the 
conception  of  "myth"  as,  like  poetry,  a  kind  of  truth  or  equiv- 
alent of  truth,  not  a  competitor  to  historic  or  scientific  truth  but 
a  supplement.17 

Historically,  myth  follows  and  is  correlative  to  ritual;  it  is 
"the  spoken  part  of  ritual;  the  story  which  the  ritual  enacts." 
The  ritual  is  performed  for  a  society  by  its  priestly  representa- 
tive in  order  to  avert  or  procure ;  it  is  an  "agendum"  which  is  re- 
currently, permanently  necessary,  like  harvests  and  human  fer- 
tility, like  the  initiation  of  the  young  into  their  society's  culture 
and  a  proper  provision  for  the  future  of  the  dead.  But  in  a 


196  Theory  0}  Literature 

wider  sense,  myth  comes  to  mean  any  anonymously  composed 
story  telling  of  origins  and  destinies,  the  explanations  a  society 
offers  its  young  of  why  the  world  is  and  why  we  do  as  we  do,  its 
pedagogic  images  of  the  nature  and  destiny  of  man.18 

For  literary  theory,  the  important  motifs  are,  probably,  the 
image  or  picture,  the  social,  the  supernatural  (or  non-naturalist 
or  irrational),  the  narrative  or  story,  the  archetypal  or  universal, 
the  symbolic  representation  as  events  in  time  of  our  timeless 
ideals,  the  programmatic  or  eschatological,  the  mystic.  In  con- 
temporary thought,  appeal  to  the  myth  may  center  on  any  one 
of  these,  with  a  spread  to  others.  Thus  Sorel  speaks  of  the  "Gen- 
eral Strike"  of  all  the  world's  workers  as  a  "myth,"  meaning  that 
while  such  an  ideal  will  never  become  historic  fact  it  must,  in 
order  to  motivate  and  dynamize  the  workers,  be  presented  as  a 
future  historical  event ;  myth  is  program.  Thus  Niebuhr  speaks 
of  Christian  eschatology  as  mythic:  the  Second  Coming  and  the 
Last  Judgment  image  as  future  history  what  are  present,  perma- 
nent, moral,  and  spiritual  evaluations.19  If  the  mythic  has  as  its 
contrary  either  science  or  philosophy,  it  opposes  the  picturable 
intuitive  concrete  to  the  rational  abstract.  Generally,  too,  in  this, 
the  central  opposition  for  literary  theorists  and  apologists,  the 
myth  is  social,  anonymous,  communal.  In  modern  times,  we  may 
be  able  to  identify  the  creators — or  some  of  the  creators — of  a 
myth;  but  it  may  still  have  the  qualitative  status  of  myth  if  its 
authorship  is  forgotten,  not  generally  known,  or  at  any  event 
unimportant  to  its  validation — if  it  has  been  accepted  by  the  com- 
munity, has  received  the  "consent  of  the  faithful." 

The  term  is  not  easy  to  fix:  it  points  today  at  an  "area  of  mean- 
ing." We  hear  of  painters  and  poets  in  search  of  a  mythology; 
we  hear  of  the  "myth"  of  progress  or  of  democracy.  We  hear  of 
"The  Return  of  the  Myth  in  World  Literature."  Yet  we  also 
hear  that  one  can't  create  a  myth  or  choose  to  believe  one  or  will 
one  into  being:  the  book  has  succeeded  the  myth,  and  the  cos- 
mopolitan city  the  homogeneous  society  of  the  city  state.20 

Does  modern  man  lack  myth — or  a  mythology,  a  system  of 
interconnected  myths?  This  would  be  Nietzsche's  view:  that 
Socrates  and  the  Sophists,  the  "intellectuals,"  had  destroyed  the 
life  of  Greek  "culture."  Similarly  it  would  be  argued  that  the 
Enlightenment  destroyed — or  began  destruction  of — the  Chris- 


Image,  Metafhor,  Symbol,  Myth  197 

tian  "mythology."  But  other  writers  think  of  modern  man  as 
having  shallow,  inadequate,  or  perhaps  even  "false"  myths,  such 
as  the  myth  of  "progress,"  or  of  "equality,"  or  of  universal  edu- 
cation, or  of  the  hygienic  and  modish  well-being  to  which  the 
advertisements  invite.  The  common  denominator  between  the 
two  conceptions  seems  to  be  the  judgment  (true,  probably)  that 
when  old,  long- felt,  self-coherent  ways  of  life  (rituals  with  their 
accompanying  myths)  are  disrupted  by  "modernism,"  most  men 
(or  all)  are  impoverished:  as  men  can't  live  by  abstractions  alone, 
they  have  to  fill  their  voids  by  crude,  extemporized,  fragmentary 
myths  (pictures  of  what  might  be  or  ought  to  be).  To  speak  of  the 
need  for  myth,  in  the  case  of  the  imaginative  writer,  is  a  sign  of 
his  felt  need  for  communion  with  his  society,  for  a  recognized 
status  as  artist  functioning  within  society.  The  French  Sym- 
bolists existed  in  self-recognized  isolation,  were  hermetic  spe- 
cialists, who  believed  the  poet  must  choose  between  commercial 
prostitution  of  his  art  and  aesthetic  purity  and  coldness.  But 
Yeats,  for  all  his  veneration  of  Mallarme,  felt  the  need  of  a 
union  with  Ireland  5  so  he  compounded  traditional  Celtic  mythol- 
ogy with  his  own  mythicizing  version  of  latter-day  Ireland,  in 
which  the  Augustan  Anglo-Irish  (Swift,  Berkeley,  and  Burke) 
are  as  freely  interpreted  as  the  American  heroes  of  Vachel  Lind- 
say's imagination.21 

For  many  writers,  myth  is  the  common  denominator  between 
poetry  and  religion.  There  exists  a  modern  view,  of  course  (rep- 
resented by  Matthew  Arnold  and  the  early  I.  A.  Richards),  that 
poetry  will  more  and  more  take  the  place  of  the  supernatural 
religion  in  which  modern  intellectuals  can  no  longer  believe.  But 
a  more  impressive  case  can  probably  be  made  for  the  view  that 
poetry  cannot  for  long  take  the  place  of  religion  since  it  can 
scarcely  long  survive  it.  Religion  is  the  greater  mystery;  poetry, 
the  lesser.  Religious  myth  is  the  large-scale  authorization  of 
poetic  metaphor.  Thus  Philip  Wheelwright,  protesting  that  by 
positivists  "religious  truth  and  poetic  truth  are  dismissed  as  fic- 
tions," asserts  that  the  "needed  perspective  is  ...  a  mytho- 
religious  one."  An  older  English  representative  of  this  view  is 
John  Dennis ;  a  relatively  recent  one  is  Arthur  Machen.22 

The  whole  series  (image,  metaphor,  symbol,  myth)  we  may 
charge  older  literary  study  with  treating  externally  and  super- 


198  Theory  of  Literature 

ficially.  Viewed  for  the  most  part  as  decorations,  rhetorical  orna- 
ments, they  were  therefore  studied  as  detachable  parts  of  the 
works  in  which  they  appear.  Our  own  view,  on  the  other  hand, 
sees  the  meaning  and  function  of  literature  as  centrally  present 
in  metaphor  and  myth.  There  are  such  activities  as  metaphoric 
and  mythic  thinking,  a  thinking  by  means  of  metaphors,  a  think- 
ing in  poetic  narrative  or  vision.  All  these  terms  call  our  atten- 
tion to  the  aspects  of  a  literary  work  which  exactly  bridge  and 
bind  together  old  divisive  components,  "form"  and  "matter." 
These  terms  look  in  both  directions ;  that  is,  they  indicate  the 
pull  of  poetry  toward  "picture"  and  "world"  on  the  one  hand 
and  toward  religion  or  W  eltanschauung  on  the  other.  As  we  sur- 
vey modern  methods  of  studying  them,  we  can  feel  that  tension. 
Since  older  methods  treated  them  as  aesthetic  devices  (albeit 
conceiving  of  such  as  merely  decorative),  the  reactionary  danger 
today  is  perhaps  a  too  heavy  stress  on  W eltanschauung.  The 
Scotch  rhetorician,  writing  at  the  end  of  the  Neo-Classical  period, 
rather  naturally  thought  of  similes  and  metaphors  as  calculated, 
elected  5  today's  analysts,  working  after  Freud,  are  disposed  to 
see  all  images  as  revelatory  of  the  unconscious.  It  calls  for  a  nice 
equilibrium  to  avoid  the  rhetorical  concern  on  the  one  hand  and 
on  the  other  both  psychological  biography  and  "message  hunt- 
ing." 

In  the  last  twenty-five  years  of  literary  study,  theory  and 
practice  have  both  been  pursued.  That  is,  we  have  attempted 
typologies  of  figuration  or,  more  specifically,  of  poetic  imagery; 
and  we  have  also  devoted  monographs  and  essays  to  the  imagery 
of  specific  poets  or  works  (with  Shakespeare  as  a  favorite  sub- 
ject). The  "practical  criticism"  having  gone  on  with  particular 
ardor,  we  begin  to  have  some  excellent  sharp  theoretical  and 
methodological  papers  scrutinizing  the  sometimes  too  easy  as- 
sumptions of  the  practitioners. 

Many  have  been  the  attempts  at  reducing  all  the  minutely  sub- 
divided figures — some  two  hundred  and  fifty  in  ambitious  lists — 
into  two  or  three  categories.  "Schemes"  and  "tropes"  is  itself  one 
of  these :  a  division  into  "sound  figures"  and  "sense  figures."  An- 
other attempt  separates  figures  of  "speech"  or  "verbal  figures" 
from  "figures  of  thought."  Both  dichotomies  have  the  fault, 
however,  of  suggesting  an  outer,  or  outermost,  structure  which 


Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  199 

lacks  expressive  function.  Thus,  under  any  traditional  system, 
rhyme  and  alliteration  are  both  phonetic  "schemes,"  acoustic 
ornamentations ;  yet  both  initial  rhyme  and  end  rhyme  can  serve, 
we  know,  as  sense  binders,  as  semantic  couplers.  The  nineteenth 
century  regarded  the  pun  as  a  "play  on  words,"  the  "lowest  form 
of  wit"  j  the  eighteenth  century  had,  with  Addison,  already  clas- 
sified it  as  one  of  the  species  of  "false  wit."  But  Baroque  and 
modern  poets  use  it  seriously  as  a  doubling  of  ideas,  a  "homo- 
phone" or  "homonym,"  a  purposed  "ambiguity."  23 

Leaving  the  schemes  aside,  we  may  divide  the  tropes  of  poetry 
most  relevantly  into  figures  of  contiguity  and  figures  of  simi- 
larity. 

The  traditional  figures  of  contiguity  are  metonymy  and  synec- 
doche. The  relations  they  express  are  logically  or  quantitatively 
analyzable:  the  cause  for  the  effect,  or  the  contrary ;  the  con- 
tainer for  the  contained;  the  adjunct  for  its  subject  ("the  village 
green,"  "the  briny  deep").  In  synecdoche,  the  relations  between 
the  figure  and  its  referent  are  said  to  be  internal.  We  are  offered 
a  sample  of  something,  a  part  intended  to  stand  for  its  whole,  a 
species  representing  a  genus,  matter  betokening  the  form  and 
use  to  which  it  is  put. 

In  the  familiar  passage  from  Shirley  illustrative  of  the  tradi- 
tional use  of  metonymy,  conventional  accoutrements — instru- 
ments or  tools — stand  for  social  classes : 

Sceptre  and  crown  must  tumble  down 

And  in  the  dust  be  equal  made 

With  the  'poor  crooked  scythe  and  spade. 

More  striking  is  the  metonymic  "transferred  adjective,"  a  sty- 
listic trait  of  Virgil,  Spenser,  Milton,  Gray,  classical  art-poets: 
"Sansfoy's  dead  dowry,"  shifts  the  epithet  from  possessor  to 
thing  possessed.  In  Gray's  "drowsy  tinklings"  and  Milton's 
"merry  bells,"  the  epithets  refer  to  the  wearers  and  the  ringers 
of  bells  respectively.  When  Milton's  gray-fly  is  "winding  her 
sultry  horn,"  the  epithet  calls  up  the  hot  summer  evening  linked 
by  association  with  the  sound  of  the  gray-fly.  In  all  such  cases, 
cited  out  of  their  context,  another,  an  animistic,  kind  of  reading 
seems  possible.  The  distinction  lies  in  whether  associational  logic 
is  operative,  or  whether,  instead,  a  persistent  personalization. 


200  Theory  of  Literature 

Devotional  poetry,  Catholic  or  Evangelical,  would  seem,  at 
first  thought,  unavoidably  metaphorical,  and  so  it  dominantly  is. 
But  Dr.  Watts,  the  Neo-Classical  hymn  writer,  gets  an  impres- 
sive effect,  moving  as  well  as  stately,  from  metonymy: 

When  I  survey  the  wondrous  cross 
On  which  the  Prince  of  Glory  died. 

My  richest  gain  I  count  but  loss 

And  'pour  contempt  on  all  my  pride. 

See,  from  his  head,  his  hands,  his  side 
Sorrow  and  love  flow  mingled  down; 

Did  eyer  such  love  and  sorrow  meet 
Or  thorns  compose  so  rich  a  crown? 

A  reader  trained  upon  another  time  style  might  hear  this  hymn 
without  perceiving  that  "sorrow"  and  "love"  equate  "water"  and 
"blood."  He  died  for  love:  his  love  is  cause 5  the  blood,  effect.  In 
seventeenth-century  Quarles,  "pour  contempt"  would  suggest 
visualizable  metaphor,  but  then  the  figure  would  be  pursued — 
perhaps  with  the  fire  of  pride  put  out  by  a  bucket  of  contempt; 
but  "pour"  here  is  a  semantic  intensive:  I  contemn  my  pride  vig- 
orously, superlatively. 

These  are,  after  all,  narrowly  restricted  uses  of  the  word.  Re- 
cently some  bolder  conceptions  of  metonymy  as  a  literary  mode 
have  been  suggested,  even  the  notion  that  metonymy  and  met- 
aphor may  be  the  characterizing  structures  of  two  poetic  types — 
poetry  of  association  by  contiguity,  of  movement  within  a  single 
world  of  discourse,  and  poetry  of  association  by  comparison,  join- 
ing a  plurality  of  worlds,  mixing,  in  the  striking  phrase  of 
Buhler,  a  "cocktail  of  spheres."  2i 

In  a  brilliant  critical  discussion  of  Whitman,  D.  S.  Mirsky 
says,  "The  separate  fractional  images  of  the  'Song  of  the  Broad- 
Axe'  are  endless  metonymic  images,  examples,  specimens  of  the 
elements  comprising  democratic  constructiveness."  25  One  might 
characterize  Whitman's  usual  poetic  method  as  an  analytic 
spreadout,  an  itemized  unpacking,  of  certain  large,  parallel  cate- 
gories. In  his  parallelistic  chants  like  "Song  of  Myself"  he  is 
dominated  by  the  desire  to  present  details,  individuals,  parts  as 
parts  of  a  whole.  For  all  his  love  of  lists,  he  is  not  really  a 


Image >  Metafhor,  Symbol,  Myth  201 

pluralist  or  personalist  but  a  pantheistic  monistj  and  the  total 
effect  of  his  catalogues  is  not  complexity  but  simplicity.  First  he 
lays  nut  his  categories,  and  then  he  copiously  illustrates  them. 

Metaphor,  which  has  had  the  attention  of  poetic  theorists  and 
rhetoricians  since  Aristotle,  who  was  both,  has  won  large  atten- 
tion in  recent  years  from  linguistic  theorists  also.  Richards  has 
protested  vehemently  against  treating  metaphor  as  deviation 
from  normal  linguistic  practice  instead  of  its  characteristic  and 
indispensable  resource.  The  "leg"  of  the  chair,  the  "foot"  of  the 
mountain,  and  the  "neck"  of  the  bottle  all  apply,  by  analogy, 
parts  of  the  human  body  to  parts  of  inanimate  objects.  These  ex- 
tensions, however,  have  become  assimilated  into  the  language, 
and  are  commonly  no  longer  felt  as  metaphorical,  even  by  the 
literarily  and  linguistically  sensitive.  They  are  "faded"  or 
"worn-out"  or  "dead"  metaphor.26 

We  must  distinguish  metaphor  as  the  "omnipresent  principle 
of  language"  (Richards)  from  the  specifically  poetic  metaphor. 
George  Campbell  assigns  the  former 'to  the  "grammarian,"  the 
latter  to  the  "rhetorician."  The  grammarian  judges  words  by 
etymologies ;  the  rhetorician,  by  whether  they  have  "the  effect 
of  metaphor  upon  the  hearer."  Wundt  would  deny  the  term 
"metaphor"  to  such  linguistic  "transpositions"  as  "leg"  of  the 
table  and  "foot"  of  the  mountain,  making  the  criterion  of  true 
metaphorism  the  calculated,  willed  intention  of  its  user  to  create 
an  emotive  effect.  H.  Konrad  contrasts  the  "linguistic"  with  the 
"aesthetic"  metaphor,  pointing  out  that  the  former  (e.g.,  the 
"leg"  of  the  table)  underlines  the  dominant  trait  of  the  object, 
while  the  latter  is  conceived  to  give  a  new  impression  of  the  ob- 
ject, to  "bathe  it  in  a  new  atmosphere."  2T 

Of  cases  difficult  to  classify,  probably  the  most  important  is 
that  of  metaphors  common  to  a  literary  school  or  generation, 
shared  poetic  metaphors.  Instances  would  be  "bone-house," 
"swan-road,"  "word-hoard,"  and  the  other  kennings  of  Old 
English  poets;  Homer's  "fixed  metaphors"  such  as  "rosy- 
fingered  dawn"  (used  twenty-seven  times  in  the  First  Book  of 
the  Iliad)  ;  the  Elizabethan's  "pearly  teeth,"  "ruby  lips,"  "ivory 
necks,"  and  "hair  of  golden  wire";  or  the  Augustan's  "watery 
plain,"  "silver  streams,"  "enameled  meadows."  2S  To  modern 
readers  some  of  these  (notably  those  from  the  Anglo-Saxon)  are 


202  Theory  of  Literature 

bold  and  "poetic,"  while  most  of  the  others  are  faded  and  quaint. 
Ignorance,  to  be  sure,  can  confer  an  illegitimate  originality  upon 
the  first  examples  of  an  unfamiliar  convention.  Indeed,  the 
etymological  metaphors  of  a  language,  not  "realized"  by  those 
whose  native  language  it  is,  are  constantly  taken,  by  analytically 
sensitive  foreigners,  as  individual  poetic  achievements.29  One  has 
to  know  intimately  both  language  and  literary  convention  to  be 
able  to  feel  and  measure  the  metaphoric  intention  of  a  specific 
poet.  In  Old  English  poetry,  "bone-house"  and  "word-hoard" 
are  undoubtedly  of  a  kind  with  Homer's  "winged  words."  They 
are  a  part  of  the  poet's  craft-education  and  give  pleasure  to  their 
hearers  by  their  traditionalism,  their  belonging  to  the  profes- 
sional, ritual  language  of  poetry.  The  metaphoric  in  them  is 
neither  wholly  realized  nor  wholly  missed:  like  much  ecclesias- 
tical symbolism,  they  may  be  said  to  be  ritual.30 

In  our  genetically  minded  age,  much  attention  has  naturally 
been  given  to  the  origins  of  the  metaphor,  both  as  a  linguistic 
principle  and  as  a  literary  mode  of  vision  and  operation.  "On- 
togeny repeats  phylogeny";  and,  in  reverse,  we  believe  we  can 
reconstruct  prehistoric  culture  history  through  analytic  observa- 
tion of  primitive  societies  and  children.  According  to  Heinz 
Werner,  metaphor  becomes  active  among  only  such  primitive 
peoples  as  have  taboos,  objects  the  "proper"  names  of  which  may 
not  be  named.31  We  reflect  immediately  on  the  rich  Jewish  talent 
for  metaphorizing  the  unnamable  Jaweh  as  a  Rock,  as  a  Sun,  a 
Lion,  and  so  on,  and  then  upon  the  euphemisms  in  our  own  so- 
ciety. But,  obviously,  a  fearful  necessity  is  not  the  only  mother 
of  invention.  We  metaphorize  also  what  we  love,  what  we  want 
to  linger  over,  and  contemplate,  to  see  from  every  angle  and 
under  every  lighting,  mirrored,  in  specialized  focus,  by  all  kinds 
of  like  things. 

If  we  pass  from  the  motivation  of  linguistic  and  ritual  met- 
aphor to  the  teleology  of  poetic  metaphor,  we  have  to  invoke 
something  far  more  inclusive — the  whole  function  of  imagina- 
tive literature.  The  four  basic  elements  in  our  whole  conception 
of  metaphor  would  appear  to  be  that  of  analogy;  that  of  double 
vision;  that  of  the  sensuous  image,  revelatory  of  the  imper- 
ceptible; that  of  animistic  projection.  The  four  in  equal  measure 
are  never  present:  attitudes  vary  from  nation  to  nation  and 


lmagey  Metafhor,  Symboly  Myth  203 

aesthetic  period  to  aesthetic  period.  According  to  one  theorist, 
Graeco-Roman  metaphor  is  almost  restricted  to  analogy  (a  quasi- 
legal  parallelism),  while  das  Blld  (the  image  symbol)  is  a  dis- 
tinctively Teutonic  figure.32  Such  a  culture  contrast,  however, 
hardly  takes  care  of  Italian  and  French  poetry,  especially  from 
Baudelaire  and  Rimbaud  to  Valery.  A  more  plausible  case  could 
be  made  for  a  contrast  between  periods  and  between  dominating 
life-philosophies. 

Each  period  style  has  its  own  characteristic  figures,  expressive 
of  its  Weltanschauung;  in  the  case  of  basic  figures  like  metaphor, 
each  period  has  its  characteristic  kind  of  metaphoric  method. 
Neo-Classical  poetry,  for  example,  is  characterized  by  the  simile, 
periphrasis,  the  ornamental  epithet,  epigram,  balance,  antithesis. 
Possible  intellectual  positions  are  reduced  to  twos  or  threes,  not 
pluralities.  Frequently  the  third  position  is  a  central  and  media- 
torial position  between  named  polar  heresies: 

Some  foreign  writers,  some  our  own  despise, 
The  ancients  only,  or  the  moderns y  frlze. 

In  the  Baroque  period,  characteristic  figures  are  the  paradox, 
the  oxymoron,  catachresis.  These  are  Christian,  mystical,  plural- 
ist figures.  Truth  is  complex.  There  are  many  modes  of  know- 
ing, each  with  its  own  legitimacy.  Some  kinds  of  truths  have 
to  be  stated  by  negation  or  calculated  distortion.  God  can  be 
spoken  of  anthropomorphically,  for  He  made  men  in  His  own 
image;  but  He  is  also  the  transcendental  Other.  Hence  in 
Baroque  religion,  truth  about  God  may  be  expressed  through 
analogical  images  (the  Lamb,  the  Bridegroom)  -y  it  may  also  be 
expressed  through  couplings  of  contradictories  or  contraries,  as 
in  Vaughan's  "deep  but  dazzling  darkness."  The  Neo-Classical 
mind  likes  clear  distinctions  and  rational  progressions:  meto- 
nymic  movements  from  genus  to  species,  or  particular  to  species. 
But  the  Baroque  mind  invokes  a  universe  at  once  of  many  worlds 
and  of  worlds  all,  in  unpredictable  ways,  connected. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  Neo-Classical  poetic  theory,  the 
characteristic  Baroque  figures  are,  of  course,  in  bad  taste,  "false 
wit" — either  willful  perversions  of  the  natural  and  rational,  or 
insincere  acrobatics,  whereas  historically  they  are  rhetorico-poetic 


204  Theory  of  Literature 

expressions  of  a  pluralist  epistemology  and  a  supernaturalist 
ontology. 

"Catachresis"  offers  an  interesting  instance.  In  1599  John 
Hoskyns  Englishes  the  term  as  "abuse"  and  deplores  that  it  is 
"nowe  growne  in  fashion.  .  .  ."  He  thinks  of  it  as  a  strained 
phrase,  "more  desperate  than  a  metaphor,"  and  cites  "a  voice 
beautiful  to  his  ears"  from  Sidney's  Arcadia  as  example  of  a 
visual  term  perversely  applied  to  hearing.  Pope  {Art  of  Sinking, 
1728)  cites  "mow  a  beard"  and  "shave  the  grass"  as  catachretic. 
George  Campbell  {Philosophy  of  Rhetoric,  1776)  cites  "beauti- 
ful voice"  and  "melodious  to  the  eye"  as  a  catachretic  pair, 
though  he  admits  that  "sweet,  originally  palatal,  can  now  be  ap- 
plied to  a  scent,  a  melody,  a  prospect."  Believing  that  proper 
metaphor  uses  the  "objects  of  sensation"  to  denote  the  "objects 
of  pure  intellection,"  Campbell  deplores  the  analogizing  of  sense 
objects  to  other  sense  objects.  On  the  other  hand,  a  recent  Cath- 
olic rhetorician  (of  Baroque-Romantic  taste)  defines  catachresis 
as  the  metaphor  drawn  from  similarity  between  two  material 
objects,  urges  that  the  merits  of  the  trope  be  studied,  and  illus- 
trates it  by  such  figures  from  Victor  Hugo  as  "les  ferles  de  la 
rosee"  and  "il  neige  des  feuilles."  33 

Another  kind  of  metaphor  acceptable  to  Baroque  sensibility, 
tasteless  to  Neo-Classical,  translates  the  greater  into  the  hum- 
bler} we  might  call  it  the  diminishing  or  domesticating  met- 
aphor. The  "spheres"  most  characteristically  mixed  by  Baroque 
poetry  are  the  natural  world  and  man's  world  of  crafts  and 
artifices.  But  knowing  that  Art  is  an  imitation  of  Nature,  Neo- 
Classicism  finds  morbid  and  perverse  the  assimilation  of  Nature 
to  Art.  Thomas  Gibbons,  for  example,  in  1767,  warns  against 
finical  and  "fantastical"  tropes,  and  cites  as  examples  "the  follow- 
ing descriptions  of  the  several  parts  of  the  Creation:  the  emboss- 
ings of  mountains,  the  enameling  of  lesser  seas,  the  open-work 
of  the  vast  ocean,  and  the  fret-work  of  the  rocks."  34 

To  be  sure,  some  nature  >  art  metaphors  remain  in  Neo- 
Classical  verse,  but  it  is  under  condition  that  the  metaphor  appear 
as  otiose  epithet.  Pope's  Pastorals  and  Forest  offer  specimens: 
"Fresh  rising  blushes  faint  the  watery  glass"}  "there  blushing 
Flora  faints  th'  enamelled  ground."  But  the  line  was  generally 
clear}  and  Dryden,  writing  in  168 1,  was  not  ashamed  to  confess 


Imagey  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  205 

that  when  he  was  a  child  he  thought  as  a  child:  "I  remember 
when  ...  I  thought  inimitable  Spenser  a  mean  poet  in  com- 
parison of  Sylvester's  Du  Bartas  and  was  rapt  into  an  ecstasy 
when  I  read  these  lines: 

Now  when  the  winter's  keen  breath  began 
To  chrystallize  the  Baltic  ocean. 
To  glaze  the  lakes,  to  bridle  up  the  Floods, 
And  periwig  with  snow  the  bald-pate  woods"  35 

The  youthful  Milton,  another  reader  of  Du  Bartas,  ends  his 
Nativity  Ode  with  a  conceit  in  the  same  mode.  Eliot  resumes  the 
tradition  in  the  celebrated  opening  of  "Prufrock" 

When  the  evening  is  spread  out  against  the  sky 
Like  a  patient  etherized  upon  a  table  .  .  . 

The  motives  behind  the  Baroque  practice  are  not  as  readily 
reducible  to  one  as  the  Classical  protest,  unless  we  simply  appeal 
to  its  wider  inclusiveness,  its  taste  for  richness  over  purity, 
polyphony  over  monophony.  More  specific  motives  are  the  ap- 
petite for  surprise  and  shock  5  Christian  incarnationism  -,  ped- 
agogic domestication  of  the  remote  by  homely  analogy. 

Thus  far  we  have  been  considering  the  nature  of  figuration, 
with  special  stress  on  metonymy  and  metaphor;  and  we  have 
suggested  the  possible  period-stylistic  character  of  these  figures. 
We  turn  now  to  studies  of  metaphoric  imagery  which  are  lit- 
erary-critical rather  than  literary-historical. 

Two  general  studies  of  metaphoric  imagery,  one  American 
and  the  other  German,  seem  to  merit  specific  presentation. 

In  1924,  Henry  Wells  published  a  study  of  Poetic  Imagery 
which  attempts  to  construct  a  typology,  the  types  inducted,  and 
chiefly  illustrated,  from  Elizabethan  literature.  Rich  in  percep- 
tive insights  and  suggestive  generalizations,  the  book  is  less  suc- 
cessful at  systematic  construction.  Wells  thinks  of  his  scheme  as 
achronistic,  applicable  to  all  periods,  not  just  to  the  Elizabethan ; 
and  he  believes  himself  to  be  descriptive,  not  evaluative,  in  his 
work.  The  basis  of  his  investigation  is  said  to  be  the  arrangement 
of  groups  of  figures  "as  they  appear  on  an  ascending  scale  from 
the  lowest,  or  most  nearly  literal,  to  the  most  imaginative,  or 
impressionistic" ,  but  the  scale,  that  of  the  "character  and  degree 


206  Theory  of  Literature 

of  imaginative  activity,"  is  asserted  to  have  no  direct  bearing  on 
the  evaluation  of  them.  His  seven  types  of  imagery,  arranged  in 
his  own  order,  are:  the  Decorative,  the  Sunken,  the  Violent  Cor 
Fustian),  the  Radical,  the  Intensive,  the  Expansive,  and  the  Ex- 
uberant. They  may  advantageously  be  rearranged  according  to 
historical  and  evaluative  hints  offered  by  Wells. 

The  crudest  forms,  aesthetically,  are  the  Violent  and  the 
Decorative,  or  the  "metaphor  of  the  masses"  and  the  metaphor 
of  artifice.  The  Decorative  image,  abundant  in  Sidney's  Arcadia, 
is  judged  "typically  Elizabethan."  The  Violent  image,  illustrated 
out  of  Kyd  and  other  early  Elizabethans,  is  characteristic  of  an 
early  period  of  culture ;  but,  since  most  men  stay  at  a  subliterary 
level,  it  belongs,  in  subliterary  forms,  to  "any  period" ;  sociolog- 
ically, "Fustian"  constitutes  "a  large  and  socially  important  body 
of  metaphor."  The  evaluative  judgment  of  both  types  is  that 
they  are  "deficient  in  the  requisite  subjective  element,"  that 
they  too  often  link  one  physical  image  to  another  (as  in  cata- 
chresis)  instead  of  relating  the  "outer  world  of  nature  to  the 
inner  world  of  man."  Again,  in  both  Decorative  and  Violent 
metaphors,  the  terms  of  the  relationship  remain  disjunct,  fixed, 
uninvaded  by  each  other.  But  in  the  highest  forms  of  metaphor, 
Wells  believes,  each  term  acts  upon,  alters,  the  other,  so  that  a 
third  term,  a  new  apprehension,  is  created  by  the  relationship. 

Next,  as  we  go  up  the  scale,  come  the  Exuberant  image  and 
the  Intensive,  the  former  a  subtler  version  of  the  Violent,  the 
latter  a  subtler  version  of  the  Decorative.  We  have  left  behind 
obvious  forms  of  display,  whether  of  energy  or  ingenuity.  In  the 
Exuberant  image,  we  have,  historically,  reached  Marlowe,  the 
first  of  the  greater  Elizabethans,  and  Burns  and  Smart,  the  Pre- 
Romantics;  this  image  is,  says  Wells,  "especially  prominent  in 
much  early  poetry."  It  juxtaposes  "two  broad  and  imaginatively 
valuable  terms,"  two  broad,  smooth  surfaces  in  face-to-face  con- 
tact. Otherwise  put,  this  category  covers  loose  comparisons,  rela- 
tionships based  on  simple  evaluative  categories.  Burns  writes: 

My  love  is  like  a  red,  red  rose  .  .  . 

My  love  is  like  a  melody 
That's  sweetly  flayed  in  tune. 


Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  207 

The  common  ground  between  a  beautiful  woman,  a  fresh  red 
rose,  and  a  well-played  melody  is  their  beauty  and  desirability} 
they  are  all,  in  kind,  the  best.  It  isn't  rosy  cheeks  which  makes 
the  woman  like  a  rose,  or  her  sweet  voice  which  makes  her  like 
a  melody  (analogies  which  would  produce  Decorative  images)} 
her  likeness  to  a  rose  is  not  in  color,  texture,  or  structure,  but  in 
value.36 

Wells'  Intensive  image  is  a  neatly  visualizable  image  of  the 
sort  associated  with  illuminated  manuscripts  and  pageants  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  In  poetry,  it  is  the  image  of  Dante  and,  especially, 
in  English  poetry,  of  Spenser.  The  image  is  not  only  clear  but — 
what  perhaps  follows — diminutive,  diagrammatic:  Dante'3  Hell, 
not  Milton's.  "Such  metaphors  are  more  often  than  others  re- 
ferred to  as  emblems  or  symbols."  The  pageant  figures  in  "Ly- 
cidas" — Camus  with  his  hairy  mantle  and  sedge  bonnet,  and 
St.  Peter  with  his  mitre  and  his  two  keys — are  also  Intensive 
images.  They  are  "guild"  images:  "pastoral"  and  "elegy"  both 
had,  by  Milton's  time,  a  stock  of  motifs  and  images.  There  can 
be  stock  imagery  as  well  as  stock  "poetic  diction."  Its  traditional, 
institutional  character  and  its  close  relation  to  the  visual  arts  and 
symbolic  ceremony  make  Wells,  thinking  in  terms  of  culture 
history,  attach  the  Intensive  image  to  conservative  religion,  to 
the  medieval,  the  priestly,  the  Catholic. 

The  three  highest  categories  are  the  Sunken,  the  Radical,  and 
the  Expansive  (taken,  one  would  think,  in  ascending  order). 
Briefly,  the  Sunken  is  the  image  of  a  classical  poetry}  the  Radical, 
the  image  of  the  Metaphysicals,  preeminently  of  Donne}  and 
the  Expansive,  the  image,  predominantly,  of  Shakespeare  as 
well  as  of  Bacon  and  Browne  and  Burke.  The  common  denomi- 
nations of  the  three,  their  marks  of  shared  altitude,  are  their 
specifically  literary  character  (their  recalcitrance  to  pictorial 
visualization),  their  internality  (metaphoric  thinking),  the  in- 
terpenetration  of  the  terms  (their  fruitful,  procreative  mar- 
riage). 

The  Sunken  image,  not  to  be  confounded  with  the  faded  or 
trite,  keeps  "below  full  visibility,"  suggests  the  sensuous  concrete 
without  definitely  projecting  and  clearing  it.  Its  lack  of  overtones 
suits  it  to  contemplative  writing:  its  Elizabethan  exemplar  is 


208  Theory  of  Literature 

Samuel  Daniel,  who  wrote,  in  verses  admired  by  Wordsworth 
and  Thoreau: 

unless  above  himself  he  can 
Erect  himself,  how  -poor  a  thing  is  man! 

But  Shakespeare  is  a  master  of  it.  In  Lear,  Edgar  says: 

Men  must  endure 
Their  going  hence,  even  as  their  coming  hither; 
Ripeness  is  all. 

"Ripeness"  is  a  sunken  image,  presumably  out  of  orchards  and 
fields.  There  is  an  analogy  suggested  between  the  inevitability 
of  natural  cycles  of  vegetation  and  the  cycles  of  life.  A  Neo- 
classical generation  might  cite  as  "mixed"  some  of  Shakespeare's 
Sunken  images: 

O  how  can  summerys  honey  breath  hold  out 
Against  the  wreckful  siege  of  battering  days. 

This  sentence  would  require  elaborate  analytic  expansion,  for  it 
mounts  figure  on  figure:  "days"  is  metonymic  for  Time,  Age, 
which  is  then  metaphorized  as  besieging  a  city  and  attempting, 
by  battering-rams,  to  take  it.  What  is  attempting — city-like,  or 
ruler  of  the  city-like — to  "hold  out"  against  these  assaults?  It  is 
youth,  metaphorized  as  summer,  or  more  exactly,  as  the  sweet 
fragrance  of  summer:  the  fragrance  of  summer  flowers  is  to  the 
earth  as  sweet  breath  is  to  the  human  body,  a  part  of  or  adjunct 
of  the  whole.  If  one  tries  to  fit  together  neatly  in  one  image  the 
battering  siege  and  the  breath,  he  gets  jammed  up.  The  figura- 
tive movement  is  rapid  and  hence  elliptical.37 

The  Radical  image— so-called  perhaps  because  its  terms  meet 
only  at  their  roots,  at  an  invisible  logical  ground,  like  final 
cause,  rather  than  by  juxtaposed  obvious  surfaces — is  the  image 
the  minor  term  of  which  seems  "unpoetic,"  either  because  too 
homely  and  utilitarian  or  because  too  technical,  scientific,  learned. 
The  Radical  image,  that  is,  takes  as  metaphoric  vehicle  some- 
thing which  has  no  obvious  emotive  associations,  which  belongs 
to  prose  discourse,  abstract  or  practical.  Thus  Donne,  in  his  re- 
ligious poetry,  uses  many  figures  from  "le  geometre  enflamm-e." 
Again,  in  the  "First  Anniversary,"  he  uses  a  pseudo-medical 


lmagey  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  209 

figure  which,  except  for  the  specified  overlap  of  its  terms,  seems 
perversely  oriented  in  just  the  wrong  (i.e.,  a  pejorative)  di- 
rection: 

But  as  some  serpent's  poison  hurteth  not 
Except  it  be  from  the  live  serpent  shot. 
So  doth  her  virtue  need  her  here  to  fit 
That  unto  us,  she  working  more  than  it. 

This  is  probably  the  characteristic  kind  of  Radical  image:  the 
more  obvious  and  less  perverse  example  would  be  the  compasses 
figure  in  Donne's  "Valediction  Forbidding  Mourning."  But,  as 
Wells  subtly  remarks,  Radical  images  can  be  derived  out  of 
romantically  suggestive  image-areas  such  as  mountains,  rivers, 
and  seas,  if  one  adopts  an  "analytic  manner."  3S 

Lastly,  there  is  the  Expansive  image,  its  name  linking  it,  by 
contrariety,  to  the  Intensive.  If  the  Intensive  is  the  medieval  and 
ecclesiastical  figure,  the  Expansive  is  that  of  prophetic  and 
progressive  thought,  of  "strong  passion  and  original  meditation," 
culminating  in  the  comprehensive  metaphors  of  philosophy  and 
religion  represented  in  Burke,  in  Bacon,  in  Browne,  and  pre- 
eminently in  Shakespeare.  By  definition,  the  Expansive  image 
is  one  in  which  each  term  opens  a  wide  vista  to  the  imagination 
and  each  term  strongly  modifies  the  other:  the  "interaction"  and 
"interpenetration"  which,  according  to  modern  poetic  theory,  are 
central  forms  of  poetic  action  occur  most  richly  in  the  Expansive 
metaphor.  We  may  take  examples  from  Romeo  and  Juliet: 

Yet,  wert  thou  as  jar 
As  that  vast  shore  washt  with  the  farthest  sea, 
I  should  adventure  for  such  merchandise. 

and  from  Macbeth: 

Light  thickens,  and  the  crow 
Makes  wing  to  the  rooky  wood: 
Good  things  of  day  begin  to  droop  and  drowse. 

In  these  last  lines,  Shakespeare  gives  us  a  "metaphorical  setting 
for  crime,"  which  turns  into  an  Expansive  metaphor  paralleling 
night  and  daemonic  evil,  light  and  goodness,  yet  not  in  any  such 
obvious  and  allegoric  fashion,  but  with  suggestive  particularity 


210  Theory  of  Literature 

and  sensuous  concreteness :  "light  thickens"  j  things  "droop  and 
drowse."  The  poetically  vague  and  the  poetically  specific  meet 
in  the  line,  "Good  things  of  day  begin  to  droop  and  drowse." 
The  subject  and  the  predicate  work  backward  and  forward  on 
each  other  as  we  attend :  starting  with  the  verb,  we  ask  what  kinds 
of  things — birds,  animals,  people,  flowers — droop  or  drowse ; 
then,  noticing  the  abstract  naming  of  the  subject,  we  wonder 
whether  the  verbs  are  metaphorical  for  "cease  to  be  vigilant," 
"quail  timorously  before  the  might  of  evil."  39 

Rhetoricians  like  Quintilian  already  make  much  of  the  dis- 
tinction between  the  metaphor  which  animates  the  inanimate, 
and  that  which  inanimates  the  animate ;  but  they  present  the  dis- 
tinction as  one  between  rhetorical  devices.  With  Pongs,  our  sec- 
ond typologist,  it  becomes  a  grandiose  contrast  between  polar 
attitudes — that  of  the  mythic  imagination,  which  projects  per- 
sonality upon  the  outer  world  of  things,  which  animizes  and 
animates  nature,  and  the  contrary  type  of  imagination,  which 
feels  its  ways  into  the  alien,  which  de-animizes  or  unsubjectivizes 
itself.  All  the  possibilities  of  figurative  expression  are  exhausted 
by  these  two,  the  subjective  and  objective  poles.40 

The  first  form  was  called  by  Ruskin  the  "pathetic  fallacy";  if 
we  think  of  it  as  being  applied  upward  to  God  as  well  as  down- 
ward to  the  tree  and  the  stone,  we  may  call  it  the  anthropomor- 
phic imagination.41  A  student  of  mystical  symbolism  notes  that 
there  are  three  general  types  of  earthly  union  available  for  the 
symbolic  expression  of  the  highest  mystical  experience:  ( i)  union 
between  inanimate  objects  (physical  mixtures  and  chemical 
unions:  the  soul  in  the  fire  of  God  as  spark,  wood,  wax,  iron; 
God  as  Water  to  the  soil  of  the  soul,  or  as  the  Ocean  into  which 
flows  the  river  of  the  soul) ;  (2)  unions  figured  according  to  the 
ways  in  which  the  body  appropriates  the  essential  elements  of 
its  life:  "in  the  Scriptures  God  is  represented  by  those  particular 
things  from  which  we  cannot  completely  withdraw  ourselves — 
light  and  air,  which  enter  at  every  crack,  and  water,  which  in  one 
form  or  other  we  all  receive  daily"  ;  42  so,  to  mystics  all  over  the 
world,  God  is  the  food  and  drink  of  the  soul,  its  Bread,  Fish, 
Water,  Milk,  Wine;  (3)  human  relationships — that  of  son  to 
father,  wife  to  husband. 

The  first  two  of  these  would  be  assigned  by  Pongs  to  the 


Image,  Metafhor,  Symbol,  Myth  211 

second  ultimate  type  of  metaphoric  intuition,  that  of  Einjiihlung, 
itself  subdivided  into  the  "mystic"  and  the  "magic."  The  mystic 
metaphor  we  have  illustrated  from  the  mystics  rather  than  the 
poets.  Inorganic  elements  are  symbolically  treated,  not  as  mere 
concepts  or  conceptual  analogies  but  as  representations  which  are 
also  presentations. 

Magical  metaphor  is  interpreted  after  the  fashion  of  the  art 
historian  Worringer,  as  an  "abstraction"  from  the  world  of  na- 
ture. Worringer  studied  the  arts  of  Egypt,  Byzantium,  Persia, 
arts  which  "reduce  organic  nature,  including  man,  to  linear- 
geometrical  forms,  and  frequently  abandon  the  organic  world 
altogether  for  one  of  pure  lines,  forms,  and  colors."  "Ornament 
detaches  itself  now  ...  as  something  which  does  not  follow 
the  stream  of  life  but  rigidly  faces  it.  .  .  .  The  intention  is  no 
longer  to  pretend  but  to  conjure."  "Ornament  ...  is  some- 
thing taken  away  from  Time ;  it  is  pure  extension,  settled  and 
stable."43 

Anthropologists  find  both  animism  and  magic  in  primitive 
cultures.  The  former  seeks  to  reach,  propitiate,  persuade,  unite 
with  personalized  spirits— the  dead,  gods.  The  latter,  pre-science, 
studies  the  laws  of  power  exerted  by  things :  sacred  words,  amu- 
lets, rods  and  wands,  images,  relics.  There  is  white  magic — that 
of  Christian  cabalists  like  Cornelius  Agrippa  and  Paracelsus , 
and  there  is  black  magic,  that  of  evil  men.  But  fundamental  to 
both  is  the  belief  in  the  power  of  things.  Magic  touches  the  arts 
through  image-making.  Western  tradition  associates  the  painter 
and  sculptor  with  the  skill  of  the  craftsman,  with  Haephaistos 
and  Daidalos,  with  Pygmalion,  who  can  bring  the  image  to  life. 
In  folklore  aesthetics,  the  maker  of  images  is  a  sorcerer  or  magi- 
cian, while  the  poet  is  the  inspired,  the  possessed,  the  productively 
mad.44  However,  the  primitive  poet  can  compose  charms  and 
incantations,  and  the  modern  poet  can,  like  Yeats,  adopt  the 
magical  use  of  images,  literal  images,  as  a  means  to  the  use  of 
magic-symbolic  images  in  his  poetry.45  Mysticism  takes  the  con- 
trary line:  the  image  is  a  symbol  effected  by  a  spiritual  state ;  it 
is  an  expressive  image  not  a  causative  image,  and  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  the  state:  the  same  spiritual  state  can  express  itself  in 
other  symbols.46 

The  mystical  metaphor  and  the  magic  are  both  de-animizing: 


212  Theory  of  Literature 

they  run  counter  to  man's  projection  of  himself  into  the  non- 
human  world  y  they  summon  up  the  "other" — the  impersonal 
world  of  things,  monumental  art,  physical  law.  Blake's  "Tiger" 
is  a  mystical  metaphor ;  God,  or  an  aspect  of  God,  is  a  Tiger 
(less  than  man,  more  than  man) ;  the  Tiger  in  turn  (and  through 
the  Tiger  its  Maker)  is  read  in  terms  of  metal  forged  in  great 
heat.  The  Tiger  is  no  animal  from  the  natural  world  of  the  zoo, 
a  tiger  that  Blake  might  have  seen  at  the  Tower  of  London, 
but  a  visionary  creature,  symbol  as  well  as  thing. 

The  magical  metaphor  lacks  this  translucency.  It  is  Medusa's 
mask  which  turns  the  living  into  stone.  Pongs  cites  Stefan  George 
as  a  representative  of  this  magical  attitude,  this  desire  to  petrify 
the  living:  "It  is  not  the  natural  drive  of  the  human  psyche  to 
project  itself  from  which  George's  form-giving  spiritualization 
works,  but,  in  its  origin,  a  powerful  destruction  of  biological  life, 
a  willed  'estrangement'  ('alienation')  as  the  basis  for  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  inner,  magic  world."  47 

In  English  poetry,  Dickinson  and  Yeats  variously  reach  for 
this  de-animizing,  this  anti-mystic  metaphor:  Emily  Dickinson 
when  she  wants  to  render  the  sense  of  death  as  well  as  the  ex- 
perience of  resurrection:  she  likes  to  invoke  the  experience  of 
dying,  stiffening,  petrifying.  "It  was  not  death,"  but  it  was 

As  if  my  life  were  shaven 

And  fitted  to  a  frame y 

And  could  not  breathe  without  a  key  .  .  . 

How  many  times  these  low  feet  staggered. 
Only  the  soldered  mouth  can  tell; 
Try!  can  you  stir  the  awful  rivet? 
Try  I  can  you  lift  the  hasfs  of  steel? 4S 

Yeats  reaches  his  ultimate  of  Poetry  as  Magic  in  "Byzantium" 
(1930).  In  the  1927  "Sailing  to  Byzantium,"  he  has  already  set 
the  opposition  between  the  world  of  biological  life:  "The  young 
in  one  another's  arms,  .  .  .  the  mackerel-crowded  seas,"  and 
the  world  of  Byzantine  art,  where  all  is  fixed,  rigid,  unnatural, 
the  world  of  "gold  mosaic"  and  "gold  enameling."  Biologically, 
man  is  a  "dying  animal" j  his  hope  for  survival  is  through  being 
"gathered  into  the  artifice  of  eternity,"  not  again  to  take  "bodily 


Image y  Metaphor >  Symbol}  Myth  213 

form  from  any  natural  thing,"  but  to  be  a  work  of  art,  a  golden 
bird  on  a  golden  bough.  "Byzantium,"  from  one  point  of  view  a 
tightly  written  illustration  of  Yeats'  "system,"  a  doctrinal  poem, 
is  from  another,  specifically  literary  point  of  view  a  structure  of 
closely  interrespondent  non-natural  images,  the  whole  compos- 
ing something  like  a  prescribed  ritual  or  liturgy.49 

Pongs'  categories,  which  we  have  rendered  with  some  free- 
dom, have  the  special  character  of  relating  poetic  style  to  view  of 
life.50  Though  each  period-style  is  seen  to  have  its  own  differ- 
entiated versions  of  them,  they  are  essentially  timeless,  alterna- 
tive ways  of  looking  at  and  responding  to  life.  All  three,  how- 
ever, belong  outside  of  the  general  lines  of  what  is  often  char- 
acterized as  modern  thought,  i.e.,  rationalism,  naturalism,  posi- 
tivism, science.  Such  a  classification  of  metaphors  thus  suggests 
that  poetry  remains  loyal  to  prescientific  modes  of  thought.  The 
poet  keeps  the  animistic  vision  of  the  child  and  of  primitive  man, 
the  child's  archetype.51 

In  recent  years,  there  have  been  many  studies  of  specific  poets 
or  even  specific  poems  or  plays  in  terms  of  their  symbolic 
imagery.  In  such  "practical  criticism,"  the  assumptions  of  the 
critic  become  important.  What  is  he  looking  for?  Is  he  analyzing 
the  poet  or  the  poem? 

We  must  distinguish  between  a  study  of  the  spheres  from 
which  the  images  are  drawn  (which,  as  MacNeice  says,  "belongs 
still  more  properly  to  the  study  of  subject-matter,"  52)  and  a 
study  of  "the  ways  in  which  images  can  be  used,"  the  character  of 
the  relationship  between  the  "tenor"  and  the  "vehicle"  (the  met- 
aphor) .  Most  monographs  on  the  imagery  of  a  specific  poet  (e.g., 
Rugoff's  Donneys  Imagery)  belong  to  the  former  class.  They 
chart  and  weigh  a  poet's  interests  by  collecting  and  distributing 
his  metaphors  between  nature,  art,  industry,  the  physical  sciences, 
the  humanities,  the  city,  and  the  country.  But  one  can  also  classify 
the  themes  or  objects  which  impel  the  poet  to  metaphor,  e.g., 
women,  religion,  death,  airplanes.  More  significant  than  the 
classification,  however,  is  the  discovery  of  large-scale  equivalents, 
psychic  correlatives.  That  two  spheres  repeatedly  summon  up 
each  the  other  may  be  supposed  to  show  their  real  interpenetra- 
tion  in  the  creative  psyche  of  the  poet:  thus  in  Donne's  "Songs 
and  Sonnets,"  his  poems  of  profane  love,  the  metaphoric  gloss  is 


214  Theory  of  Literature 

constantly  drawn  from  the  Catholic  world  of  sacred  love:  to 
sexual  love  he  applies  the  Catholic  concepts  of  ecstasy,  canoniza- 
tion, martyrdom,  relics,  while  in  some  of  his  "Holy  Sonnets"  he 
addresses  God  in  violent  erotic  figures : 

Yet  dearly  I  love  you,  and  would  be  loved  jam 
But  am  betrothed  unto  your  enemy. 
Divorce  me,  untie,  or  break  that  knot  again. 
Take  me  to  you,  imprison  me,  for  I 
Except  you  enthrall  me,  never  shall  be  free, 
Nor  ever  chaste,  except  you  ravish  me. 

The  interchange  between  the  spheres  of  sex  and  religion  recog- 
nizes that  sex  is  a  religion  and  religion  is  a  love. 

One  type  of  study  stresses  the  self-expression,  the  revelation 
of  the  poet's  psyche  through  his  imagery.  It  assumes  that  the 
poet's  images  are  like  images  in  a  dream,  i.e.,  uncensored  by 
discretion  or  shame:  not  his  overt  statements,  but  offered  by  way 
of  illustration,  they  might  be  expected  to  betray  his  real  centers 
of  interest.  But  it  may  be  questioned  whether  a  poet  has  ever 
been  so  uncritical  of  his  images.53 

Another  assumption,  quite  certainly  mistaken,  is  that  the  poet 
must  literally  have  perceived  whatever  he  can  imagine  (on  the 
strength  of  which  Miss  Wade,  in  her  study  of  Traherne,  recon- 
structs his  early  life).54  According  to  Dr.  Johnson,  an  admirer 
of  Thomson's  poems  thought  she  knew  his  tastes  from  his  works. 

She  could  gather  from  his  works  three  parts  of  his  char- 
acter: that  he  was  a  great  lover,  a  great  swimmer,  and  rig- 
orously abstinent ;  but,  said  [his  intimate]  Savage,  he  knows 
not  any  love  but  that  of  the  sex;  he  was  perhaps  never  in 
cold  water  in  his  life;  and  he  indulges  himself  in  all  the 
luxury  that  comes  within  his  reach. 

Her  conception  of  the  poet's  personal  characteristics  and  habits 
was  ludicrously  inaccurate.  Nor  can  we  argue  that  absence  of 
metaphoric  images  is  equivalent  to  absence  of  interest.  In  Wal- 
ton's life  of  Donne  there  is  not  a  fishing  image  among  its  eleven 
figures.  The  poetry  of  the  fourteenth-century  composer  Machaut 
uses  no  tropes  drawn  from  music.55 

The  assumption  that  a  poet's  imagery  is  the  central  contribu- 


Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  215 

tion  of  his  unconscious  and  that  in  it,  therefore,  the  poet  speaks 
as  a  man,  not  as  an  artist,  seems,  in  turn,  referable  back  to  float- 
ing, not  very  consistent,  assumptions  about  how  to  recognize 
"sincerity."  On  the  one  hand,  it  is  popularly  supposed  that  strik- 
ing imagery  must  be  contrived,  and  hence  insincere:  a  man  really 
moved  would  either  speak  in  simple  unfigured  language  or  in 
banal  and  faded  figures.  But  there  is  a  rival  idea  that  the  trite 
figure  evoking  the  stock  response  is  a  sign  of  insincerity,  of  ac- 
cepting a  crude  approximation  to  one's  feeling  in  place  of  a 
scrupulous  statement  of  it.  Here  we  confuse  men  generally  with 
literary  men,  men  talking  with  men  writing,  or,  rather,  men 
talking  with  poems.  Ordinary  personal  candor  and  trite  imagery 
are  eminently  compatible.  As  for  "sincerity"  in  a  poem:  the 
term  seems  almost  meaningless.  A  sincere  expression  of  what? 
Of  the  supposed  emotional  state  out  of  which  it  came?  Or  of 
the  state  in  which  the  poem  was  written?  Or  a  sincere  expression 
of  the  poem,  i.e.,  the  linguistic  construct  shaping  in  the  author's 
mind  as  he  writes?  Surely  it  will  have  to  be  the  last:  the  poem 
is  a  sincere  expression  of  the  poem. 

A  poet's  imagery  is  revelatory  of  his  self.  How  is  his  self 
defined?  Mario  Praz  and  Mrs.  Hornstein  have  both  been  amus- 
ing at  the  expense  of  Miss  Spurgeon's  Shakespeare,  the  uni- 
versal twentieth-century  Englishman.  It  can  be  assumed  that 
the  great  poet  shared  our  "common  humanity."  56  We  need  no 
imagistic  key  to  the  scriptures  to  learn  that.  If  the  value  of  image 
study  lies  in  uncovering  something  recondite,  it  will  presumably 
make  it  possible  for  us  to  read  some  private  signatures,  unlock 
the  secret  of  Shakespeare's  heart. 

Instead  of  discovering  in  his  imagery  Shakespeare's  universal 
humanity,  we  may  find  a  kind  of  hieroglyphic  report  on  his 
psychic  health  as  it  exists  when  he  is  composing  a  specific  play. 
Thus,  Miss  Spurgeon  says  of  Troilus  and  Hamlet,  "Did  we  not 
know  it  for  other  reasons,  we  could  be  sure  from  the  similarity 
and  continuity  of  symbolism  in  the  two  plays  that  they  were 
written  near  together,  and  at  a  time  when  the  author  was  suf- 
fering from  a  disillusionment,  revulsion,  and  perturbation  of 
nature  such  as  we  feel  nowhere  else  with  the  same  intensity." 
Here  Miss  Spurgeon  is  assuming  not  that  the  specific  cause  of 
Shakespeare's  disillusionment  can  be  located  but  that  Hamlet 


216  Theory  of  Literature 

expresses  disillusionment  and  that  this  must  be  Shakespeare's 
own.57  He  could  not  have  written  so  great  a  play  had  he  not  been 
sincere,  i.e.,  writing  out  of  his  own  mood.  Such  a  doctrine  runs 
counter  to  the  view  of  Shakespeare  urged  by  E.  E.  Stoll  and 
others  which  emphasizes  his  art,  his  dramaturgy,  his  skillful  pro- 
vision of  new  and  better  plays  within  the  general  pattern  of  pre- 
ceding successes:  e.g.,  Hamlet  as  a  follower-up  of  The  Spanish 
Tragedy;  The  Winter's  Tale  and  The  Tempest  as  a  rival 
theater's  equivalents  to  Beaumont  and  Fletcher. 

Not  all  studies  of  poetic  imagery,  however,  attempt  to  catch 
the  poet  off  guard  or  to  pursue  his  inner  biography.  They  may 
focus,  rather,  on  an  important  element  in  the  total  meaning  of 
a  play — what  Eliot  calls  "the  pattern  below  the  level  of  plot 
and  character."  58  In  her  1930  essay,  "Leading  Motives  in  the 
Imagery  of  Shakespeare's  Tragedies,"  Miss  Spurgeon  herself  is 
primarily  interested  in  defining  the  image  or  cluster  of  images 
which,  dominating  a  specific  play,  acts  as  tone-giver.  Samples  of 
her  analysis  are  the  discovery  in  Hamlet  of  images  of  disease, 
e.g.,  ulcer,  cancer ;  of  food  and  the  digestive  apparatus  in 
Troilus;  in  Othello,  of  "animals  in  action,  preying  upon  one 
another.  .  .  ."  Miss  Spurgeon  makes  some  effort  to  show  how 
this  substructure  of  a  play  affects  its  total  meaning,  remarking 
of  Hamlet  that  the  disease  motif  suggests  that  the  Prince  is  not 
culpable,  that  the  whole  state  of  Denmark  is  diseased.  The  posi- 
tive value  of  her  work  lies  in  this  search  for  subtler  forms  of  lit- 
erary meaning  than  ideological  generalization  and  overt  plot 
structure. 

More  ambitious  studies  of  imagery,  those  of  Wilson  Knight, 
take  off,  initially,  from  Middleton  Murry's  brilliant  pages  on 
Shakespeare's  imagery  (The  Problem  of  Style,  1922).  Knight's 
earlier  work  (e.g.,  Myth  and  Miracle,  1929,  and  The  Wheel  of 
Fire,  1930)  is  exclusively  concerned  with  Shakespeare ;  but  in 
later  volumes  the  method  is  applied  to  other  poets  as  well,  e.g., 
Milton,  Pope,  Byron,  Wordsworth.59  The  earlier  work,  clearly 
the  best,  keeps  to  studies  of  individual  plays,  studying  each  in 
terms  of  its  symbolic  imagery,  giving  particular  attention  to 
imagistic  oppositions  like  "tempests"  and  "music,"  but  also  sensi- 
tively observing  stylistic  differentiations  between  play  and  play 
as  well  as  within  a  play.  In  the  later  books,  the  extravagances 


Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  Myth  21 7 

of  an  "enthusiast"  are  palpable.  Knight's  exegesis  of  Pope's 
Essays  on  Criticism  and  on  Man  blithely  disregards  the  question 
of  what  the  "ideas"  in  those  poems  could  historically  have 
meant  to  Pope  and  his  contemporaries.  Deficient  in  historical 
perspective,  Knight  suffers  also  from  a  desire  to  "philosophize." 
The  "philosophy"  he  draws  from  Shakespeare  and  others  is 
neither  original,  clear,  nor  complex:  it  amounts  to  the  reconcilia- 
tion of  Eros  and  Agape,  of  order  with  energy,  and  so  on  with 
other  pairs  of  contraries.  As  all  the  "real"  poets  bring  essentially 
the  same  "message,"  one  is  left,  after  the  decoding  of  each,  with 
a  feeling  of  futility.  Poetry  is  a  "revelation,"  but  what  does  it 
reveal? 

Quite  as  perceptive  as  Knight's  work  and  much  better  bal- 
anced is  that  of  Wolfgang  Clemen,  whose  Shakes  feares  Bilder 60 
carries  out  the  promise  of  its  subtitle  that  it  will  study  the  de- 
velopment and  functioning  of  the  imagery.  Contrasting  the  im- 
agery of  lyrics  and  even  epics,  he  insists  on  the  dramatic  nature 
of  Shakespeare's  plays:  in  his  mature  work,  it  is  not  Shakespeare 
"the  man"  but  Troilus  who  metaphorically  in  the  play  thinks  in 
terms  of  rancid  food.  In  a  play,  "Each  image  is  used  by  a  spe- 
cific person."  Clemen  has  a  real  sense  for  the  right  methodo- 
logical questions  to  put.  In  analyzing  Titus  Andronicus,  for  ex- 
ample, he  asks,  "On  what  occasions  in  the  play  does  Shakespeare 
use  images?  Does  there  exist  a  connection  between  the  use  of 
imagery  and  the  occasion?  What  function  have  the  images?" — 
to  which  questions  for  Titus  he  has  only  negative  answers.  In 
Titus,  the  imagery  is  spasmodic  and  ornamental,  but  from  that 
we  can  trace  Shakespeare's  development  to  the  use  of  metaphor 
as  u  stimmungsmassige  Untermalung  des  Geschehens*y  and  as  a 
"ganz  ursfriingliche  Form  der  W ahrnehmung,"  i.e.,  to  meta- 
phorical thinking.  He  makes  admirable  comments  on  the  "ab- 
strakte  Metaphorik"  of  Shakespeare's  Middle  Period  (with  its 
"unbildliche  Bildlichkeit" — corresponding  to  Wells'  Sunken, 
Radical,  and  Expansive  types  of  imagery) ;  but,  writing  a  mono- 
graph on  a  specific  poet,  he  introduces  his  type  only  when,  in 
Shakespeare's  "development,"  it  appears ;  and,  though  his  mono- 
graph studies  a  development,  and  the  "periods"  of  Shakespeare's 
work,  Clemen  remembers  that  he  is  studying  the  "periods"  of 
the  poetry,  not  those  of  the  author's  largely  hypothetical  life. 


2 1 8  Theory  of  Literature 

Like  meter,  imagery  is  one  component  structure  of  a  poem. 
In  terms  of  our  scheme,  it  is  a  part  of  the  syntactical,  or  stylistic, 
stratum.  It  must  be  studied,  finally,  not  in  isolation  from  the 
other  strata  but  as  an  element  in  the  totality,  the  integrity,  of  the 
literary  work. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction 

Literary  theory  and  criticism  concerned  with  the  novel  are 
much  inferior  in  both  quantity  and  quality  to  theory  and  criti- 
cism of  poetry.  The  cause  customarily  assigned  for  this  would 
be  the  antiquity  of  poetry,  the  comparative  recency  of  the  novel. 
But  the  explanation  scarcely  seems  adequate.  The  novel  as  an 
art  form  is,  as  one  can  say  in  German,  a  form  of  Dkhtung;  is, 
indeed,  in  its  high  form,  the  modern  descendant  of  the  epic — 
with  drama,  one  of  the  two  great  forms.  The  reasons  are  rather, 
one  thinks,  the  widespread  association  of  the  novel  with  enter- 
tainment, amusement,  and  escape  rather  than  serious  art — the 
confounding  of  the  great  novels,  that  is,  with  manufactures  made 
with  a  narrow  aim  at  the  market.  The  lingering  American  popu- 
lar view,  disseminated  by  pedagogues,  that  the  reading  of  non- 
fiction  was  instructive  and  meritorious,  that  of  fiction,  harmful 
or  at  best  self-indulgent,  was  not  without  implicit  backing  in  the 
attitude  toward  the  novel  of  representative  critics  like  Lowell 
and  Arnold. 

There  is  an  opposite  danger,  however,  of  taking  the  novel 
seriously  in  the  wrong  way,  that  is,  as  a  document  or  case  his- 
tory, as — what  for  its  own  purposes  of  illusion  it  sometimes  pro- 
fesses to  be — a  confession,  a  true  story,  a  history  of  a  life  and  its 
times.  Literature  must  always  be  interesting  j  it  must  always 
have  a  structure  and  an  aesthetic  purpose,  a  total  coherence  and 
effect.  It  must,  of  course,  stand  in  recognizable  relation  to  life, 
but  the  relations  are  very  various :  the  life  can  be  heightened  or 
burlesqued  or  antithesized ;  it  is  in  any  case  a  selection,  of  a  spe- 
cifically purposive  sort,  from  life.  We  have  to  have  a  knowl- 
edge independent  of  literature  in  order  to  know  what  the  rela- 
tion of  a  specific  work  to  "life"  may  be. 

Aristotle  described  poetry  (that  is,  epic  and  drama)  as  nearer 
to  philosophy  than  to  history.  The  dictum  seems  to  have  per- 

219 


220  Theory  of  Literature 

manent  suggestiveness.  There  is  factual  truth,  truth  in  specific 
detail  of  time  and  place — truth  of  history  in  the  narrow  sense. 
Then  there  is  philosophic  truth:  conceptual,  propositional,  gen- 
eral. From  the  points  of  view  of  "history,"  so  defined,  and 
philosophy,  imaginative  literature  is  "fiction,"  a  lie.  The  word 
"fiction"  still  preserves  this  old  Platonic  charge  against  litera- 
ture, to  which  Philip  Sidney  and  Dr.  Johnson  reply  that  litera- 
ture never  pretended  to  be  real  in  that  sense ;  1  and  still  preserv- 
ing this  vestigial  remnant  of  the  old  charge  of  deception,  it  can 
still  irritate  the  earnest  writer  of  novels,  who  knows  well  that 
fiction  is  less  strange  and  more  representative  than  truth. 

Wilson  Follett  remarks  admirably  of  Defoe's  narrative  of 
Mrs.  Veal  and  Mrs.  Bargrave  that  "Everything  in  the  story  is 
true  except  the  whole  of  it.  And  mark  how  difficult  Defoe  makes 
it  to  question  even  that  whole.  The  tale  is  told  by  a  third  woman 
of  exactly  the  same  stamp  as  the  other  two,  a  life-long  friend 
of  Mrs.  Bargrave.  .  .  ."  2 

Marianne  Moore  speaks  of  poetry  as  presenting 

for  inspection,  imaginary  gardens  with  real  toads  in  them. 

The  reality  of  a  work  of  fiction — i.e.,  its  illusion  of  reality, 
its  effect  on  the  reader  as  a  convincing  reading  of  life — is  not 
necessarily  or  primarily  a  reality  of  circumstance  or  detail  or 
commonplace  routine.  By  all  of  these  standards,  writers  like 
Howells  or  Gottfried  Keller  put  to  shame  the  writers  of  Oedipus 
Rex,  Hamlet,  and  Moby  Dick.  Verisimilitude  in  detail  is  a 
means  to  illusion,  but  often  used,  as  in  Gulliver's  Travels,  as 
a  decoy  to  entice  the  reader  into  some  improbable  or  incredible 
situation  which  has  "truth  to  reality"  in  some  deeper  than  a  cir- 
cumstantial sense. 

Realism  and  naturalism,  whether  in  the  drama  or  the  novel, 
are  literary  or  literary-philosophical  movements,  conventions, 
styles,  like  romanticism  or  surrealism.  The  distinction  is  not  be- 
tween reality  and  illusion,  but  between  differing  conceptions  of 
reality,  between  differing  modes  of  illusion.3 

What  is  the  relation  of  narrative  fiction  to  life?  The  classical 
or  Neo-Classical  answer  would  be  that  it  presents  the  typical,  the 
universal — the  typical  miser  (Moliere,  Balzac),  the  typical  faith- 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  221 

less  daughters  (Lear,  Goriot).  But  are  not  such  class  concepts 
for  sociology?  Or  it  would  have  been  said  that  art  ennobles  or 
heightens  or  idealizes  life.  There  is  such  a  style  of  art,  of  course, 
but  it  is  a  style,  not  the  essence  of  art;  though  all  art,  to  be  sure, 
by  giving  aesthetic  distance,  by  shaping  and  articulating,  makes 
that  pleasant  to  contemplate  which  would  be  painful  to  experi- 
ence or  even,  in  life,  to  witness.  Perhaps  it  might  be  said  that 
a  work  of  fiction  offers  a  "case  history" — an  illustration  or  exem- 
plification of  some  general  pattern  or  syndrome.  There  are 
instances — in  short  stories  like  Cather's  "Paul's  Case"  or  "The 
Sculptor's  Funeral" — which  approach  it.  But  the  novelist  offers 
less  a  case — a  character  or  event — than  a  world.  The  great  nov- 
elists all  have  such  a  world — recognizable  as  overlapping  the 
empirical  world  but  distinct  in  its  self-coherent  intelligibility. 
Sometimes  it  is  a  world  which  can  be  mapped  out  in  some  area 
of  the  globe — like  Trollope's  counties  and  cathedral  towns, 
Hardy's  Wessex;  but  sometimes — as  with  Poe — it  is  not:  Poe's 
horrendous  castles  are  not  in  Germany  or  Virginia  but  in  the 
soul.  Dickens'  world  can  be  identified  with  London;  Kafka's 
with  old  Prague:  but  both  worlds  are  so  "projected,"  so  creative 
and  created  and  hereafter  recognized  in  the  empirical  world  as 
Dickens  characters  and  Kafka  situations  that  the  identifications 
seem  rather  irrelevant. 

Meredith,  Conrad,  Henry  James,  and  Hardy  have  all,  says 
Desmond  McCarthy,  "blown  great  comprehensive  iridescent 
bubbles,  in  which  the  human  beings  they  describe,  though  they 
have  of  course  a  recognizable  resemblance  to  real  people,  only 
attain  in  that  world  their  full  reality."  Imagine,  McCarthy  says, 
"a  character  moved  from  one  imaginary  world  to  another.  If 
Pecksniff  were  transplanted  into  The  Golden  Bowl  he  would  be- 
come extinct.  .  .  .  The  unforgivable  artistic  fault  in  a  novelist 
is  failure  to  maintain  consistency  of  tone."  4 

This  world  or  Kosmos  of  a  novelist — this  pattern  or  structure 
or  organism,  which  includes  plot,  characters,  setting,  world-view, 
"tone" — is  what  we  must  scrutinize  when  we  attempt  to  compare 
a  novel  with  life  or  to  judge,  ethically  or  socially,  a  novelist's 
work.  The  truth  to  life,  or  "reality,"  is  no  more  to  be  judged 
by  the  factual  accuracy  of  this  or  that  detail  than  the  moral  judg- 
ment is  to  be  passed,  as  Boston  censors  pass  it,  on  whether  spe- 


222  Theory  of  Literature 

cific  sexual  or  blasphemous  words  occur  within  a  novel.  The 
soundly  critical  appeal  is  to  the  whole  fictional  world  in  com- 
parison with  our  own  experienced  and  imagined  world,  com- 
monly less  integrated  than  that  of  the  novelist.  We  are  content 
to  call  a  novelist  great  when  his  world,  though  not  patterned  or 
scaled  like  our  own,  is  comprehensive  of  all  the  elements  which 
we  find  necessary  to  catholic  scope  or,  though  narrow  in  scope, 
selects  for  inclusion  the  deep  and  central,  and  when  the  scale  or 
hierarchy  of  elements  seems  to  us  such  as  a  mature  man  can 
entertain. 

In  using  the  term  "world,"  one  is  using  a  space  term.  "Had 
we  but  world  enough  and  time."  But  "narrative  fiction" — or, 
better,  a  term  like  "story,"  calls  our  attention  to  time,  and  a 
sequence  in  time.  "Story"  comes  from  "history":  the  "Chroni- 
cles of  Barsetshire."  Literature  is  generally  to  be  classed  as  a 
time-art  (in  distinction  from  painting  and  sculpture,  space-arts)  5 
but  in  a  very  active  way  modern  poetry  (non-narrative  poetry) 
seeks  to  escape  its  destiny — to  become  a  contemplative  stasis,  a 
"self-reflexive"  pattern ;  and  as  Joseph  Frank  has  well  shown, 
the  modern  art-novel  (Ulysses,  Nightwood,  Mrs.  Dalloway) 
has  sought  to  organize  itself  poetically,  i.e.,  "self-reflexively."  5 
This  calls  our  attention  to  an  important  cultural  phenomenon: 
the  old  narrative,  or  story  (epic  or  novel)  happened  in  time — 
the  traditional  time-span  for  the  epic  was  a  year.  In  many  great 
novels,  men  are  born,  grow  up,  and  die;  characters  develop, 
change  -y  even  a  whole  society  may  be  seen  to  change  ( The  For- 
syte Saga,  War  and  Peace)  or  a  family's  cyclic  progress  and 
decline  exhibited  (Buddenbrooks) .  The  novel,  traditionally,  has 
to  take  the  time  dimension  seriously. 

In  the  picaresque  novel,  the  chronological  sequence  is  all  there 
is:  this  happened  and  then  that.  The  adventures,  each  an  inci- 
dent, which  might  be  an  independent  tale,  are  connected  by  the 
figure  of  the  hero.  A  more  philosophic  novel  adds  to  chronology 
the  structure  of  causation.  The  novel  shows  a  character  deterio- 
rating or  improving  in  consequence  of  causes  operating  steadily 
over  a  period  of  time.  Or  in  a  closely  contrived  plot,  something 
has  happened  in  time:  the  situation  at  the  end  is  very  different 
from  that  at  the  opening. 

To  tell  a  story,  one  has  to  be  concerned  about  the  happening, 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  223 

not  merely  the  outcome.  There  is  or  was  a  kind  of  reader  who 
must  look  ahead  to  see  how  a  story  "comes  out";  but  one  who 
reads  only  the  "concluding  chapter"  of  a  nineteenth-century 
novel  would  be  somebody  incapable  of  interest  in  story,  which 
is  process — even  though  process  toward  an  end.  There  are  cer- 
tainly philosophers  and  moralists  like  Emerson  who  cannot  take 
novels  seriously  primarily,  one  thinks,  because  action — or  ex- 
ternal action — or  action  in  time — seems  to  them  unreal.  They 
cannot  see  history  as  real:  history  is  just  an  unrolling  in  time  of 
more  of  the  same;  and  the  novel  is  fictitious  history. 

A  word  should  be  said  about  the  word  "narrative,"  which, 
as  applied  to  fiction,  should  imply  the  contrast  of  enacted  fic- 
tion, i.e.,  drama.  A  story,  or  fable,  can  be  represented  by  mimes, 
or  it  can  be  narrated  by  a  single  teller,  who  will  be  the  epic 
teller,  or  one  of  his  successors.  The  epic  poet  uses  the  first  person 
and  can,  like  Milton,  make  that  a  lyric  or  auctorial  first  person. 
The  nineteenth-century  novelist,  even  though  he  did  not  write 
in  the  first  person,  used  the  epic  privilege  of  comment  and  gen- 
eralization— what  we  might  call  the  "essayistic"  (as  distinct 
from  lyric)  first  person.  But  the  chief  pattern  of  narrative  is  its 
inclusiveness :  it  intersperses  scenes  in  dialogue  (which  might  be 
acted)  with  summary  accounts  of  what  is  happening.6 

The  two  chief  modes  of  narrative  fiction  have,  in  English, 
been  called  the  "romance"  and  the  "novel."  In  1785,  Clara 
Reeve  distinguished  them:  "The  Novel  is  a  picture  of  real  life 
and  manners,  and  of  the  time  in  which  it  is  written.  The  Ro- 
mance, in  lofty  and  elevated  language,  describes  what  never 
happened  nor  is  likely  to  happen."  7  The  novel  is  realistic  5  the 
romance  is  poetic  or  epic:  we  should  now  call  it  "mythic."  Mrs. 
Radcliffe,  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Hawthorne  are  writers  of  "ro- 
mance." Fanny  Burney,  Jane  Austen,  Anthony  Trollope,  George 
Gissing  are  novelists.  The  two  types,  which  are  polar,  indicate 
the  double  descent  of  prose  narrative:  the  novel  develops  from 
the  lineage  of  non-fictitious  narrative  forms — the  letter,  the 
journal,  the  memoir  or  biography,  the  chronicle  or  history ;  it 
develops,  so  to  speak,  out  of  documents ;  stylistically,  it  stresses 
representative  detail,  "mimesis"  in  its  narrow  sense.  The  ro- 
mance, on  the  other  hand,  the  continuator  of  the  epic  and  the 
medieval  romance,  may  neglect  verisimilitude  of  detail   (the 


224  Theory  of  Literature 

reproduction  of  individuated  speech  in  dialogue,  for  example), 
addressing  itself  to  a  higher  reality,  a  deeper  psychology. 
"When  a  writer  calls  his  work  a  Romance,"  writes  Hawthorne, 
"it  need  hardly  be  observed  that  he  wishes  to  claim  a  certain 
latitude  both  as  to  its  fashion  and  its  material.  .  .  ."  If  such  a 
romance  be  laid  in  past  time,  it  is  not  in  order  to  picture  with 
minute  accuracy  that  past  time,  but  to  secure,  in  Hawthorne's 
words  elsewhere,  "a  sort  of  poetic  .  .  .  precinct,  where  actuali- 
ties would  not  be  .  .  .  insisted  upon.  .  .  ."  8 

Analytical  criticism  of  the  novel  has  customarily  distinguished 
three  constituents,  plot,  characterization,  and  setting:  the  last, 
so  readily  symbolic,  becomes,  in  some  modern  theories,  "atmos- 
phere" or  "tone."  It  is  needless  to  observe  that  each  of  these  ele- 
ments is  determinant  of  the  others.  As  Henry  James  asks  in  his 
essay,  "The  Art  of  Fiction,"  "What  is  character  but  the  deter- 
mination of  incident?  What  is  incident  but  the  illustration  of 
character?" 

The  narrative  structure  of  play,  tale,  or  novel  has  traditionally 
been  called  the  "plot"  ;  and  probably  the  term  should  be  re- 
tained. But  then  it  must  be  taken  in  a  sense  wide  enough  to  in- 
clude Chekhov  and  Flaubert  and  Henry  James  as  well  as  Hardy, 
Wilkie  Collins,  and  Poe :  it  must  not  be  restricted  to  mean  a  pat- 
tern of  close  intrigue  like  Godwin's  Caleb  Williams.9  We  shall 
speak  rather  of  types  of  plots,  of  looser  and  of  more  intricate, 
of  "romantic"  plots  and  "realistic."  In  a  time  of  literary  transi- 
tion, a  novelist  may  feel  compelled  to  provide  two  kinds,  one 
of  them  out  of  an  obsolescent  mode.  Hawthorne's  novels  after 
The  Scarlet  Letter  offer,  clumsily,  an  old-fashioned  mystery 
plot,  while  their  real  plot  is  of  a  looser,  more  "realistic,"  variety. 
In  his  later  novels,  Dickens  devotes  much  ingenuity  to  his  mys- 
tery plots,  which  may  or  may  not  coincide  with  the  novel's  real 
center  of  interest.  The  last  third  of  Huck  Finn,  obviously  in- 
ferior to  the  rest,  seems  prompted  by  a  mistaken  sense  of  respon- 
sibility to  provide  some  "plot."  The  real  plot,  however,  has 
already  been  in  successful  progress:  it  is  a  mythic  plot,  the  meet- 
ing on  a  raft  and  journey  down  a  great  river  of  four  who  have 
escaped,  for  various  reasons,  from  conventional  society.  One  of 
the  oldest  and  most  universal  plots  is  that  of  the  Journey,  by 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  225 

land  or  water:  Huck  Finn,  Moby  Dick,  Pilgrim's  Progress, 
Don  Quixote,  Pickwick  Papers,  The  Grapes  of  Wrath.  It  is  cus- 
tomary to  speak  of  all  plots  as  involving  conflict  (man  against 
nature,  or  man  against  other  men,  or  man  fighting  with  him- 
self) j  but  then,  like  plot,  the  term  must  be  given  much  latitude. 
Conflict  is  "dramatic,"  suggests  some  matching  of  approximately 
equal  forces,  suggests  action  and  counteraction.  Yet  there  are 
plots  which  it  seems  more  rational  to  speak  of  in  terms  of  a 
single  line  or  direction,  as  plots  of  the  chase  or  the  pursuit:  Caleb 
Williams,  The  Scarlet  Letter,  Crime  and  Punishment,  Kafka's 
Trial. 

The  plot  (or  narrative  structure)  is  itself  composed  of  smaller 
narrative  structures  (episodes,  incidents).  The  larger  and  more 
inclusive  literary  structures  (the  tragedy,  the  epic,  the  novel) 
have  developed,  historically,  from  earlier,  rudimentary  forms 
like  the  joke,  the  saying,  the  anecdote,  the  letter ;  and  the  plot 
of  a  play  or  novel  is  a  structure  of  structures.  The  Russian  for- 
malists, and  German  form-analysts  like  Dibelius,  give  the  term 
"motive"  (Fr.,  motif,  Germ.,  motiv)  to  the  ultimate  plot- 
elements.10  "Motive,"  as  thus  used  by  literary  historians,  is  bor- 
rowed from  the  Finnish  folklorists,  who  have  analyzed  fairy 
and  folk  tales  into  their  parts.11  Obvious  examples  from  written 
literature  will  be  mistaken  identities  ( The  Comedy  of  Errors) ; 
the  marriage  of  youth  and  old  age  ("January  and  May") ;  filial 
ingratitude  to  a  father  {Lear,  Pere  Goriot) ;  the  search  of  a  son 
for  his  father  (Ulysses,  and  The  Odyssey).12 

What  we  call  the  "composition"  of  the  novel  is,  by  the  Ger- 
mans and  Russians,  called  its  "motivation."  The  term  might  well 
be  adopted  into  English  as  valuable  precisely  for  its  double  ref- 
erence to  structural  or  narrative  composition  and  to  the  inner 
structure  of  psychological,  social,  or  philosophical  theory  of  why 
men  behave  as  they  do — some  theory  of  causation,  ultimately. 
Sir  Walter  Scott  asserts  early,  that  "the  most  marked  distinction 
between  a  real  and  a  fictitious  narrative  [is]  that  the  former,  in 
reference  to  the  remote  causes  of  the  events  it  relates,  is  obscure 
.  .  .  whereas  in  the  latter  case  it  is  a  part  of  the  author's  duty 
to  .  .  .  account  for  everything."  13 

Composition  or  motivation  (in  the  largest  sense)  will  include 


226  Theory  of  Literature 

narrative  method:  "scale,"  "pace";  devices:  the  proportioning 
of  scenes  or  drama  to  picture  or  straight  narrative  and  of  both 
to  narrative  summary  or  digest. 

Motifs  and  devices  have  their  period  character.  The  Gothic 
romance  has  its  own;  the  realistic  novel,  its.  Dibelius  repeatedly 
speaks  of  Dickens'  "realism"  as  of  the  Marchen,  not  of  the 
naturalistic  novel,  the  devices  being  utilized  to  lead  into  old- 
fashioned  melodramatic  motifs:  the  man  supposed  dead  who 
comes  to  life,  or  the  child  whose  real  paternity  is  finally  estab- 
lished, or  the  mysterious  benefactor  who  turns  out  to  be  a 
convict.14 

In  a  work  of  literary  art,  the  "motivation"  must  increase  the 
"illusion  of  reality":  that  is,  its  aesthetic  function.  "Realistic" 
motivation  is  an  artistic  device.  In  art,  seeming  is  even  more 
important  than  being. 

The  Russian  formalists  distinguish  the  "fable,"  the  temporal- 
causal  sequence  which,  however  it  may  be  told,  is  the  "story"  or 
story-stuff,  from  the  "sujet,"  which  we  might  translate  as 
"narrative  structure."  The  "fable"  is  the  sum  of  all  the  motifs, 
while  the  "sujet"  is  the  artistically  ordered  presentation  of  the 
motifs  (often  quite  different).  Obvious  instances  involve  tem- 
poral displacement:  beginning  in  medias  res,  like  the  Odyssey 
or  Barnaby  Rudge;  backward  and  forward  movements,  as  in 
Faulkner's  Absalom,  Absalom.  The  "sujet"  of  Faulkner's  As  I 
Lay  Dying  involves  the  story  being  narrated  in  turn  by  the 
members  of  a  family  as  they  carry  the  mother's  body  to  a  dis- 
tant graveyard.  "Sujet"  is  plot  as  mediated  through  "point  of 
view,"  "focus  of  narration."  "Fable"  is,  so  to  speak,  an  abstrac- 
tion from  the  "raw  materials"  of  fiction  (the  author's  experience, 
reading,  etc.);  the  "sujet"  is  an  abstraction  from  the  "fable"; 
or,  better,  a  sharper  focusing  of  narrative  vision.15 

Fable-time  is  the  total  period  spanned  by  the  story.  But 
"narrative"  time  corresponds  to  "sujet":  it  is  reading-time,  or 
"experienced  time,"  which  is  controlled,  of  course,  by  the  nov- 
elist, who  passes  over  years  in  a  few  sentences  but  gives  two  long 
chapters  to  a  dance  or  tea-party.16 

The  simplest  form  of  characterization  is  naming.  Each  "appel- 
lation" is  a  kind  of  vivifying,  animizing,  individuating.  The 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  227 

allegoric  or  quasi-allegoric  name  appears  in  eighteenth-century 
comedy:  Fielding's  Allworthy  and  Thwackum,  Witwoud,  Mrs. 
Malaprop,  Sir  Benjamin  Backbite,  with  their  echo  of  Jonson, 
Bunyan,  Spenser,  and  Everyman.  But  the  subtler  practice  is  a 
kind  of  onomatopoeic  toning,  at  which  novelists  as  alien  as 
Dickens  and  Henry  James,  Balzac  and  Gogol,  are  alike  adept: 
Pecksniff,  Pumblechook,  Rosa  Dartle  (dart;  startle),  Mr.  and 
Miss  Murdstone  (murder  +  stony  heart).  Melville's  Ahab  and 
Ishmael  show  what  can  be  done  by  literary — in  this  instance, 
Biblical — allusion  as  a  form  of  characterizing  economy.17 

Modes  of  characterization  are  many.  Older  novelists  like 
Scott  introduce  each  of  their  major  persons  by  a  paragraph  de- 
scribing in  detail  the  physical  appearance  and  another  analyzing 
the  moral  and  psychological  nature.  But  this  form  of  block 
characterization  may  be  reduced  to  an  introductory  label.  Or  the 
label  may  turn  into  a  device  of  mimicry  or  pantomime — some 
mannerism,  gesture,  or  saying,  which,  as  in  Dickens,  recurs  when- 
ever the  character  reappears,  serving  as  emblematic  accompani- 
ment. Mrs.  Gummidge  is  "always  thinking  of  the  old  un"; 
Uriah  Heep  has  a  word,  "umble,"  and  also  a  ritual  gesture  of 
the  hands.  Hawthorne  sometimes  characterizes  by  a  literal  em- 
blem: Zenobia's  red  flower;  Westervelt's  brilliantly  artificial 
teeth.  The  later  James  of  The  Golden  Bowl  has  one  character 
see  another  in  symbolic  terms. 

There  are  static  characterizations  and  dynamic  or  develop- 
mental. The  latter  seems  particularly  suited  to  the  long  novel 
like  War  and  Peace,  as  it  is  obviously  less  suited  to  drama,  with 
its  confined  narrative  time.  Drama  (e.g.,  Ibsen)  can  gradually 
disclose  how  a  character  has  become  what  it  is;  the  novel  can 
show  the  change  occurring.  "Flat"  characterization  (which 
commonly  overlaps  "static")  presents  a  single  trait,  seen  as  the 
dominant  or  socially  most  obvious  trait.  It  may  be  caricature  or 
may  be  abstractive  idealization.  Classical  drama  (e.g.,  Racine) 
applies  it  to  major  characters.  "Round"  characterization,  like 
"dynamic,"  requires  space  and  emphasis;  is  obviously  usable 
for  characters  focal  for  point  of  view  or  interest;  hence  is  ordi- 
narily combined  with  "flat"  treatment  of  background  figures — 
the  "chorus."  18 


228  Theory  of  Literature 

There  is  obviously  some  kind  of  connection  between  charac- 
terization (literary  method)  and  characterology  (theories  of 
character,  personality  types).  There  are  character-typologies, 
partly  literary  tradition,  partly  folk-anthropology,  which  are 
used  by  novelists.  In  nineteenth-century  English  and  American 
fiction,  one  finds  brunettes,  male  and  female  (Heathcliffe,  Mr. 
Rochester ;  Becky  Sharp  ;  Maggie  Tulliver;  Zenobia,  Miriam; 
Ligeia)  and  blondes  (female  instances — Amelia  Sedley;  Lucy 
Dean;  Hilda,  Priscilla,  and  Phoebe  [Hawthorne];  Lady  Row- 
ena  [Poe]).  The  blonde  is  the  home-maker,  unexciting  but 
steady  and  sweet.  The  brunette — passionate,  violent,  mysterious, 
alluring,  and  untrustworthy — gathers  up  the  characteristics  of 
the  Oriental,  the  Jewish,  the  Spanish,  and  the  Italian  as  seen 
from  the  point  of  view  of  the  "Anglo-Saxon."  19 

In  the  novel,  as  in  the  drama,  we  have  something  like  a  rep- 
ertory company:  the  hero,  the  heroine,  the  villain,  the  "char- 
acter actors"  (or  "humor  characters,"  or  comic  relief).  There 
are  the  juveniles  and  ingenues  and  the  elderly  (the  father  and 
mother,  the  maiden  aunt,  the  duenna,  or  the  nurse).  The  dra- 
matic art  of  the  Latin  tradition  (Plautus  and  Terence,  the  corn- 
media  dell'arte,  Jonson,  Moliere)  uses  a  strongly  marked  and 
traditional  typology  of  miles  gloriosus,  miserly  father,  wily 
servant.  But  a  great  novelist  like  Dickens  largely  adopts  and 
adapts  the  types  of  the  eighteenth-century  stage  and  novel;  he 
initiates  only  two  types — the  helpless  old  and  young,  and  the 
dreamers  or  fantasts  (e.g.,  Tom  Pinch,  in  Chuzzlewit).20 

Whatever  the  ultimate  social  or  anthropological  basis  for  lit- 
erary character-types  such  as  the  blonde  heroine  and  the  bru- 
nette, the  affective  patterns  can  both  be  made  out  from  the 
novels  without  documentary  aid,  and  they  have,  commonly,  lit- 
erary-historical ancestries  and  lines — like  the  femme  jatale  and 
the  dark  Satanic  hero  studied  by  Mario  Praz  in  The  Romantic 
Agony.21 

Attention  to  setting — the  literary  element  of  description  as 
distinguished  from  narration — would  at  first  thought  seem  to 
differentiate  "fiction"  from  drama;  our  second  thought,  how- 
ever, would  rather  make  it  a  matter  of  period.  Detailed  atten- 
tion to  setting,  whether  in  drama  or  the  novel,  is  Romantic  or 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  229 

Realistic  (i.e.,  nineteenth-century)  rather  than  universal.  In 
drama,  the  setting  may  be  given  verbally  within  the  play  (as  in 
Shakespeare)  or  indicated  by  stage  directions  to  scene  designers 
and  carpenters.  Some  "scenes"  in  Shakespeare  are  not  to  be 
placed,  localized,  at  all.22  But  within  the  novel,  also,  description 
of  the  setting  is  to  a  high  degree  variable.  Jane  Austen,  like 
Fielding  and  Smollett,  rarely  describes  either  interiors  or  exte- 
riors. The  earlier  novels  of  James,  written  under  the  influence 
of  Balzac,  are  detailed  for  both  houses  and  landscapes;  the  later 
novels  substitute  for  how  scenes  look  some  symbolic  rendering 
of  how  they  totally  feel. 

Romantic  description  aims  at  establishing  and  maintaining  a 
mood:  plot  and  characterization  are  to  be  dominated  by  tone, 
effect — Mrs.  Radcliffe  and  Poe  are  instances.  Naturalistic  de- 
scription is  a  seeming  documentation,  offered  in  the  interest  of 
illusion  (Defoe,  Swift,  Zola). 

Setting  is  environment;  and  environments,  especially  domestic 
interiors,  may  be  viewed  as  metonymic,  or  metaphoric,  expres- 
sions of  character.  A  man's  house  is  an  extension  of  himself. 
Describe  it  and  you  have  described  him.  Balzac's  detailed  speci- 
fications for  the  house  of  the  miser  Grandet  or  the  Pension 
Vauquer  are  neither  irrelevant  nor  wasteful.23  These  houses 
express  their  owners;  they  affect,  as  atmosphere,  those  others 
who  must  live  in  them.  The  petty-bourgeois  horror  of  the  Pen- 
sion is  the  immediate  provocation  of  Rastignac's  reaction  and 
in  another  sense  Vautrin's,  while  it  measures  the  degradation  of 
Goriot  and  affords  constant  contrast  with  the  grandeurs  alter- 
nately described. 

Setting  may  be  the  expression  of  a  human  will.  It  may,  if  it 
is  a  natural  setting,  be  a  projection  of  the  will.  Says  the  self- 
analyst  Amiel,  "A  landscape  is  a  state  of  mind."  Between  man 
and  nature  there  are  obvious  correlatives,  most  intensely  (but 
not  exclusively)  felt  by  the  Romantics.  A  stormy,  tempestuous 
hero  rushes  out  into  the  storm.  A  sunny  disposition  likes  sun- 
light. _ 

Again,  setting  may  be  the  massive  determinant — environment 
viewed  as  physical  or  social  causation,  something  over  which  the 
individual  has  little  individual  control.  This  setting  may  be 


230  Theory  of  Literature 

Hardy's  Egdon  Heath  or  Lewis'  Zenith.  The  great  city  (Paris, 
London,  New  York)  is  the  most  real  of  the  characters  in  many 
a  modern  novel. 

A  story  can  be  told  through  letters  or  journals.  Or  it  can  de- 
velop from  anecdotes.  The  frame-story  enclosing  other  stories 
is,  historically,  a  bridge  between  anecdote  and  novel.  In  the 
Decameron,  the  stories  are  thematically  grouped.  In  the  Can- 
terbury Tales j  such  grouping  of  themes  (e.g.,  marriage)  is  bril- 
liantly supplemented  by  the  conception  of  characterization  of 
teller  through  tale  and  of  a  set  of  characters  with  psychological 
and  social  tensions  between  them.  The  story-of-stories  has  a 
Romantic  version  as  well:  in  Irving's  Tales  of  a  Traveller  and 
Hoffmann's  Tales  of  the  Serapion  Brethren.  The  Gothic  novel, 
Melmoth  the  Wanderer ■,  is  a  strange  but  undeniably  effective 
group  of  separate  tales  united  only  loosely  save  by  their  common 
tone  of  horror. 

Another  device,  currrently  out  of  practice,  is  the  short  story 
included  within  a  novel  (e.g.,  the  "Man  on  the  Hill's  Tale"  in 
Tom  Jones;  the  "Confessions  of  a  Beautiful  Soul,"  in  Wilhelm 
Meister).  This  can  be  seen  as,  on  one  level,  the  attempt  to  fill 
out  the  size  of  a  work;  on  another,  as  the  search  for  variety. 
Both  ends  seem  better  served  in  the  Victorian  three-decker 
novels,  which  keep  two  or  three  plot-sequences  in  alternate 
movement  (on  their  revolving  stage)  and  eventually  show  how 
they  interlock — a  compounding  of  plots  already  practiced  by  the 
Elizabethans,  often  brilliantly.  Artistically  handled,  one  plot 
parallels  the  other  (in  Lear)  or  serves  as  "comic  relief"  or 
parody  and  hence  underlining  of  the  other. 

Telling  a  story  in  the  first  person  (the  Ich-Erzahlung)  is  a 
method  carefully  to  be  weighed  against  others.  Such  a  narrator 
must  not,  of  course,  be  confounded  with  the  author.  The  pur- 
pose and  effect  of  narration  in  the  first  person  vary.  Sometimes 
the  effect  is  to  make  the  teller  less  sharp  and  "real"  than  other 
characters  (David  Copper  field).  On  the  other  hand,  Moll 
Flanders  and  Huck  Finn  are  central  to  their  own  stories.  In 
"The  House  of  Usher,"  Poe's  first-person  narration  enables  the 
reader  to  identify  himself  with  Usher's  neutral  friend  and  to 
withdraw  with  him  at  the  catastrophic  finale;  but  the  neurotic 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  231 

or  psychotic  central  character  tells  his  own  story  in  "Ligeia," 
"Berenice,"  and  "The  Tell-Tale  Heart":  the  narrator,  with 
whom  we  cannot  identify,  is  making  a  confession,  characterizing 
himself  by  what  he  reports  and  how  he  reports  it. 

Interesting  is  the  question  of  how  the  story  purports  to  exist. 
Some  tales  are  elaborately  introduced  (Castle  of  Otranto,  Turn 
of  the  Screw,  Scarlet  Letter) :  the  story  proper  is  given  several 
degrees  of  detachment  from  its  author  or  the  reader  by  being 
represented  as  told  to  A  by  B,  or  as  a  manuscript  entrusted  to 
A  by  B,  who  perhaps  wrote  down  the  life-tragedy  of  C.  Poe's 
first-person  narratives  are  sometimes,  ostensibly,  dramatic  mono- 
logues ("Amontillado"),  sometimes  the  written  confession  of  a 
tormented  soul,  avowedly  unburdening  himself  ("The  Tell- 
Tale  Heart").  Often  the  assumption  is  not  clear:  in  "Ligeia," 
are  we  to  think  of  the  narrator  as  talking  to  himself,  rehearsing 
his  story  to  refresh  his  own  sense  of  horror? 

The  central  problem  of  narrative  method  concerns  the  relation 
of  the  author  to  his  work.  From  a  play,  the  author  is  absent  j  he 
has  disappeared  behind  it.  But  the  epic  poet  tells  a  story  as  a 
professional  story-teller,  including  his  own  comments  within  the 
poem,  and  giving  the  narration  proper  (as  distinct  from  dia- 
logue) in  his  own  style. 

The  novelist  can  similarly  tell  a  story  without  laying  claim  to 
having  witnessed  or  participated  in  what  he  narrates.  He  can 
write  in  the  third  person,  as  the  "omniscient  author."  This  is 
undoubtedly  the  traditional  and  "natural"  mode  of  narration. 
The  author  is  present,  at  the  side  of  his  work,  like  the  lecturer 
whose  exposition  accompanies  the  lantern  slides  or  the  documen- 
tary film. 

There  are  two  ways  of  deviating  from  that  mixed  mode  of 
epic  narration:  one,  which  may  be  called  the  romantic-ironic, 
deliberately  magnifies  the  role  of  the  narrator,  delights  in  vio- 
lating any  possible  illusion  that  this  is  "life"  and  not  "art,"  em- 
phasizes the  written  literary  character  of  the  book.  The  founder 
of  the  line  is  Sterne,  especially  in  Tristram  Shandy;  he  is  fol- 
lowed by  Jean  Paul  Richter  and  Tieck  in  Germany;  by  Velt- 
man  and  Gogol  in  Russia.  Tristram  might  be  called  a  novel 
about  novel-writing,  as  might  Gide's  Les  Faux-Monnayeurs  and 
its  derivative,  Point  Counter-point.  Thackeray's  much-censured 


232  Theory  of  Literature 

management  of  Vanity  Fair — his  constant  reminder  that  these 
characters  are  puppets  he  has  manufactured — is  doubtless  a  spe- 
cies of  this  literary  irony:  literature  reminding  itself  that  it  is 
but  literature. 

The  opposite  goal  for  the  novel  is  the  "objective"  or  "dra- 
matic" method,  argued  for  and  illustrated  by  Otto  Ludwig  in 
Germany,  Flaubert  and  Maupassant  in  France,  Henry  James  in 
England.24  The  exponents  of  this  method,  critics  as  well  as  ar- 
tists, have  sought  to  represent  it  as  the  only  artistic  method  (a 
dogma  which  need  not  be  accepted).  It  has  been  admirably 
expounded  in  Percy  Lubbock's  Craft  of  Fiction,  a  Poetics  of 
the  novel  based  on  the  practice  and  the  theory  of  Henry  James. 

"Objective"  is  the  better  term  to  use,  since  "dramatic"  might 
mean  "dialogue"  or  "action,  behavior"  (in  contrast  to  the  inner 
world  of  thought  and  feeling) ;  but,  quite  clearly,  it  was  the 
drama,  the  theater,  which  instigated  these  movements.  Otto 
Ludwig  formed  his  theories  on  the  basis  chiefly  of  Dickens, 
whose  devices  of  pantomime  and  characterization  by  stock  phrase 
were  borrowed  from  the  older  eighteenth-century  comedy  and 
melodrama.  Instead  of  narrating,  Dickens'  impulse  is  always  to 
f  resent ,  in  dialogue  and  pantomime ;  instead  of  telling  us  about , 
he  shows  us.  Later  modes  of  the  novel  learn  from  other  and 
subtler  theaters,  as  James  did  from  that  of  Ibsen.25 

The  objective  method  must  not  be  thought  of  as  limited  to 
dialogue  and  reported  behavior  (James'  The  Awkward  Age; 
Hemingway's  "The  Killers").  Such  limitation  would  bring  it 
into  direct,  and  unequal,  rivalry  with  the  theater.  Its  triumphs 
have  been  in  the  presentation  of  that  psychic  life  which  the 
theater  can  handle  but  awkwardly.  Its  essentials  are  the  volun- 
tary absence  from  the  novel  of  the  "omniscient  novelist"  and, 
instead,  the  presence  of  a  controlled  "point  of  view."  James 
and  Lubbock  see  the  novel  as  giving  us,  in  turn,  "picture"  and 
"drama,"  by  which  they  mean  some  character's  consciousness  of 
what  is  going  on  (within  and  without)  in  distinction  from  a 
"scene,"  which  is  partly  at  least  in  dialogue  and  which  presents, 
in  some  detail,  an  important  episode  or  encounter.26  The  "pic- 
ture" is  as  "objective"  as  the  "drama,"  only  it  is  the  objective 
rendering  of  a  specific  subjectivity — that  of  one  of  the  char- 
acters (Madame  Bovary,  or  Strether),  while  the  "drama"  is  the 


The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction  233 

objective  rendering  of  speech  and  behavior.  This  theory  admits 
of  a  shift  of  "point  of  view"  (e.g.,  from  the  Prince  to  the  Prin- 
cess in  the  second  half  of  The  Golden  Bowl),  provided  it  be 
systematic.  It  also  admits  the  author's  use  of  a  character  within 
the  novel,  not  unlike  the  author,  who  is  either  telling  the  nar- 
rative to  some  friends  ( Mario w,  in  Conrad's  Youth)  or  the  con- 
sciousness through  which  all  is  seen  (Strether,  in  The  Ambas- 
sadors) :  the  insistence  is  upon  the  self-consistent  objectivity  of 
the  novel.  If  the  author  is  to  be  present  other  than  "in  solution," 
it  must  be  by  reducing  himself  or  his  representative  to  the  same 
size  and  status  as  the  other  characters.27 

Integral  to  the  objective  method  is  presentation  in  time,  the 
reader's  living  through  the  process  with  the  characters.  To  some 
extent,  "picture"  and  "drama"  must  always  be  supplemented  by 
"summary"  (the  "five  days  elapse  between  Acts  I  and  II"  of 
the  theater) ;  but  it  should  be  minimal.  The  Victorian  novel  used 
to  end  with  a  chapter  summarizing  the  subsequent  careers,  mar- 
riages, and  deaths,  of  the  principal  characters ;  James,  Howells, 
and  their  contemporaries  put  an  end  to  this  practice,  which  they 
viewed  as  an  artistic  blunder.  According  to  objectivist  theory, 
the  author  must  never  anticipate  what  lies  ahead  5  he  must  un- 
roll his  chart,  letting  us  see  only  a  line  at  a  time.  Ramon  Fer- 
nandez sets  up  a  distinction  between  the  recti,  the  narrative  of 
what  has  already  taken  place,  and  is  now  being  told,  according 
to  the  laws  of  exposition  and  description,  and  the  roman,  or 
novel,  which  represents  events  taking  place  in  time,  according  to 
the  order  of  living  production.28 

A  characteristic  technical  device  of  the  objective  novel  is  what 
the  Germans  call  "erlebte  Rede"  and  the  French  "le  style  in- 
direct libre"  (Thibaudet)  and  "le  monologue  interieur"  (Du- 
jardin) ;  and  in  English,  the  phrase,  "stream  of  consciousness," 
which  goes  back  to  William  James,  is  the  loose,  inclusive  cor- 
respondent.29 Dujardin  defines  "interior  monologue"  as  a  de- 
vice for  the  "direct  introduction  of  the  reader  into  the  interior 
life  of  the  character,  without  any  interventions  in  the  way  of 
explanation  or  commentary  on  the  part  of  the  author  .  .  ."  and 
as  "the  expression  of  the  most  intimate  thoughts,  those  which 
lie  nearest  the  unconscious  .  .  ."  In  The  Ambassadors,  says  Lub- 
bock, James  does  not  "tell  the  story  of  Strether's  mind;   he 


234  Theory  of  Literature 

makes  it  tell  itself,  he  dramatizes  it."  30  The  history  of  these 
devices,  and  of  their  adumbrations  in  all  modern  literatures, 
only  begins  to  be  studied:  the  Shakespearean  soliloquy  is  one 
ancestor ;  Sterne,  applying  Locke  on  the  free  association  of  ideas, 
is  another ;  the  "internal  analysis,"  i.e.,  the  summarizing  by  the 
author  of  a  character's  movement  of  thought  and  feeling,  is 
a  third.31 

These  observations  on  our  third  stratum,  that  of  the  fictional 
"world"  (plot,  characters,  setting),  have  been  illustrated  chiefly 
from  the  novel  but  should  be  understood  as  applicable  also  to 
the  drama,  considered  as  a  literary  work.  The  fourth  and  last 
stratum,  that  of  the  "metaphysical  qualities,"  we  have  viewed 
as  closely  related  to  the  "world,"  as  equivalent  to  the  "attitude 
towards  life"  or  tone  implicit  in  the  world}  but  these  qualities 
will  recur  for  closer  attention  in  our  treatment  of  Evaluation. 


CHAPTER  XVII 

Literary  Genres 

Is  literature  a  collection  o£  individual  poems  and  plays  and 
novels  which  share  a  common  name?  Such  nominalistic  answers 
have  been  given  in  our  time,  especially  by  Croce.1  But  his  an- 
swer, though  intelligible  as  reaction  against  extremes  of  classical 
authoritarianism,  has  not  commended  itself  as  doing  justice  to 
the  facts  of  literary  life  and  history. 

The  literary  kind  is  not  a  mere  name,  for  the  aesthetic  con- 
vention in  which  a  work  participates  shapes  its  character.  Lit- 
erary kinds  "may  be  regarded  as  institutional  imperatives  which 
both  coerce  and  are  in  turn  coerced  by  the  writer."  2  Milton,  so 
libertarian  in  politics  and  religion,  was  a  traditionalist  in  poetry, 
haunted,  as  W.  P.  Ker  admirably  says,  by  the  "abstract  idea  of 
the  epic"  j  he  knew  himself  "what  the  laws  are  of  a  true  epic 
poem,  what  of  a  dramatic,  what  of  a  lyric."  3  But  he  also  knew 
how  to  adjust,  stretch,  alter  the  classical  forms — knew  how  to 
Christianize  and  Miltonize  the  Aeneid,  as  in  Samson  he  knew 
how  to  tell  his  personal  story  through  a  Hebrew  folk  tale 
treated  as  a  Greek  tragedy. 

The  literary  kind  is  an  "institution" — as  Church,  University, 
or  State  is  an  institution.  It  exists,  not  as  an  animal  exists  or  even 
as  a  building,  chapel,  library,  or  capitol,  but  as  an  institution 
exists.  One  can  work  through,  express  himself  through,  existing 
institutions,  create  new  ones,  or  get  on,  so  far  as  possible,  without 
sharing  in  polities  or  rituals ;  one  can  also  join,  but  then  reshape, 
institutions.4 

Theory  of  genres  is  a  principle  of  order:  it  classifies  literature 
and  literary  history  not  by  time  or  place  (period  or  national  lan- 
guage) but  by  specifically  literary  types  of  organization  or  struc- 
ture.5 Any  critical  and  evaluative — as  distinct  from  historical — 
study  involves,  in  some  form,  the  appeal  to  such  structures.  The 
judgment  of  a  poem,  for  example,  involves  appeal  to  one's  total 

235 


236  Theory  of  Literature 

experience  and  conception,  descriptive  and  normative,  of  poetry 
(though  of  course  one's  conception  of  poetry  is,  in  turn,  always 
being  altered  by  one's  experience  and  judgment  of  further  spe- 
cific poems). 

Does  a  theory  of  literary  kinds  involve  the  supposition  that 
every  work  belongs  to  a  kind?  The  question  is  not  raised  in  any 
discussion  we  know.  If  we  were  to  answer  by  analogy  to  the  natu- 
ral world,  we  should  certainly  answer  "yes":  even  the  whale  and 
the  bat  can  be  placed;  and  we  admit  of  creatures  who  are  transi- 
tions from  one  kingdom  to  another.  We  might  try  a  series  of 
rephrasings  such  as  give  our  question  sharper  focus.  Does  every 
work  stand  in  close  enough  literary  relations  to  other  works  so 
that  its  study  is  helped  by  the  study  of  the  other  works?  Again, 
how  far  is  "intention"  involved  in  the  idea  of  genre?  Intention 
on  the  part  of  a  pioneer?  Intention  on  the  part  of  others?  6 

Do  genres  remain  fixed?  Presumably  not.  With  the  addition 
of  new  works,  our  categories  shift.  Study  the  effect  on  theory  of 
the  novel  of  Tristram  Shandy  or  Ulysses.  When  Milton  wrote 
Paradise  Lost,  he  thought  of  it  as  one  with  the  Iliad  as  well  as 
the  Aeneid;  we  would  doubtless  sharply  distinguish  primitive 
epic  from  literary  epic,  whether  or  not  we  think  of  the  Iliad  as 
the  former.  Milton  probably  would  not  have  granted  that  the 
Faerie  Queene  was  an  epic,  though  written  in  a  time  when  epic 
and  romance  were  still  unseparate  and  when  the  allegorical 
character  of  epic  was  held  dominant 3  yet  Spenser  certainly 
thought  of  himself  as  writing  the  kind  of  poem  Homer  wrote. 

Indeed,  one  characteristic  kind  of  critical  performance  seems 
the  discovery,  and  the  dissemination,  of  a  new  grouping,  a  new 
generic  pattern:  Empson  puts  together,  as  versions  of  pastoral, 
As  You  Like  Ity  The  Beggar's  Of  era,  Alice  in  Wonderland.  The 
Brothers  Karamazov  is  put  with  other  murder  mysteries. 

Aristotle  and  Horace  are  our  classical  texts  for  genre  theory. 
From  them,  we  think  of  tragedy  and  epic  as  the  characteristic  (as 
well  as  the  two  major)  kinds.  But  Aristotle  at  least  is  also  aware 
of  other  and  more  fundamental  distinctions — between  drama, 
epic,  and  lyric.  Most  modern  literary  theory  would  be  inclined 
to  scrap  the  prose-poetry  distinction  and  then  to  divide  imagina- 
tive literature  (Dichtung)  into  fiction  (novel,  short  story,  epic), 


Literary  Genres  237 

drama  (whether  in  prose  or  verse),  and  poetry  (centering  on 
what  corresponds  to  the  ancient  "lyric  poetry"). 

Vietor  suggests,  quite  properly,  that  the  term  "genre"  ought 
not  to  be  used  both  for  these  three  more  or  less  ultimate  cate- 
gories and  also  for  such  historical  kinds  as  tragedy  and  comedy;  7 
and  we  agree  that  it  should  be  applied  to  the  latter — the  his- 
torical kinds.  A  term  for  the  former  is  difficult  to  manage — per- 
haps not  often,  in  practice,  needed.8  The  three  major  kinds  are 
already,  by  Plato  and  Aristotle,  distinguished  according  to  "man- 
ner of  imitation"  (or  "representation") :  lyric  poetry  is  the  poet's 
own  fersona;  in  epic  poetry  (or  the  novel)  the  poet  partly  speaks 
in  his  own  person,  as  narrator,  and  partly  makes  his  characters 
speak  in  direct  discourse  (mixed  narrative)  ;  in  drama,  the  poet 
disappears  behind  his  cast  of  characters.9 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  show  the  fundamental  nature  of 
these  three  kinds  by  dividing  the  dimensions  of  time  and  even 
linguistic  morphology  between  them.  In  his  letter  to  Davenant, 
Hobbes  had  tried  something  of  the  sort  when,  having  divided 
the  world  into  court,  city,  and  country,  he  then  found  a  cor- 
responding three,  basic  kinds  of  poetry — the  heroic  (epic  and 
tragedy),  the  scommatic  (satire  and  comedy),  and  the  pastoral.10 
E.  S.  Dallas,  a  talented  English  critic  who  knew  the  critical 
thinking  of  the  Schlegels  as  well  as  Coleridge,11  finds  three  basic 
kinds  of  poetry,  "Play,  tale,  and  song,"  which  he  then  works  out 
into  a  series  of  schemata  more  German  than  English.  He  trans- 
lates: drama — second  person,  present  time;  epic — third  person, 
past  time;  and  lyric — first  person  singular,  future.  John  Erskine, 
however,  who  in  19 12  published  an  interpretation  of  the  basic 
literary  kinds  of  poetic  "temperament,"  finds  that  the  lyric  ex- 
presses present  time,  but,  by  taking  the  line  that  tragedy  shows 
the  judgment  day  upon  man's  past — his  character  accumulated 
into  his  fate — and  epic  the  destiny  of  a  nation  or  race,  he  is  able 
to  arrive  at  what,  merely  listed,  sounds  the  perverse  identifica- 
tion of  drama  with  the  past  and  epic  with  the  future.12 

Erskine's  ethico-psychological  interpretation  is  remote  in 
spirit  and  method  from  the  attempt  of  the  Russian  formalists 
like  Roman  Jakobson,  who  wish  to  show  the  correspondence  be- 
tween the  fixed  grammatical  structure  of  the  language  and  the 
literary  kinds.  The  lyric,  declares  Jakobson,  is  the  first  person 


238  Theory  of  Literature 

singular,  present  tense,  while  the  epic  is  third  person,  past  tense 
(the  "I"  of  the  epic  teller  is  really  looked  at  from  the  side  as  a 
third  person — "dieses  objektivierte  Ich").13, 

Such  explorations  of  the  basic  kinds,  which  attach  them  on  the 
one  extreme  to  linguistic  morphology  and  at  the  other  to  ulti- 
mate attitudes  toward  the  universe,  though  "suggestive"  are 
scarcely  promising  of  objective  results.  It  is  open  indeed  to  ques- 
tion whether  these  three  kinds  have  any  such  ultimate  status, 
even  as  component  parts  variously  to  be  combined. 

One  awkwardness,  to  be  sure,  is  the  fact  that  in  our  time 
drama  stands  on  a  different  basis  from  epic  ("fiction,"  novel)  and 
lyric.  For  Aristotle  and  the  Greeks,  public  or  at  least  oral  per- 
formance was  given  the  epic:  Homer  was  poetry  recited  by  a 
rhapsode  like  Ion.  Elegiac  and  iambic  poetry  were  accompanied 
by  the  flute,  melic  poetry  by  the  lyre.  Today,  poems  and  novels 
are  eye-read  to  oneself,  for  the  most  part. 14  But  the  drama  is  still, 
as  among  the  Greeks,  a  mixed  art,  centrally  literary,  no  doubt, 
but  involving  also  "spectacle" — making  use  of  the  actor's  skill 
and  the  play  director's,  the  crafts  of  the  costumer  and  elec- 
trician.15 

If,  however,  one  avoids  that  difficulty  by  reducing  all  three 
to  a  common  literariness,  how  is  the  distinction  between  play  and 
story  to  be  made?  The  recent  American  short  story  (e.g., 
Hemingway's  "The  Killers")  aspires  to  the  objectivity  of  the 
play,  to  the  purity  of  dialogue.  But  traditional  novel,  like  the 
epic,  has  mixed  dialogue,  or  direct  presentation,  with  narration ; 
indeed,  the  epic  was  judged  highest  of  genres  by  Scaliger  and 
some  other  devisers  of  generic  scales,  partly  because  it  included 
all  the  others.  If  epic  and  the  novel  are  compound  forms,  then 
for  ultimate  kinds  we  have  to  disengage  their  component  parts 
into  something  like  "straight  narration"  and  "narration  through 
dialogue"  (unacted  drama) ;  and  our  three  ultimates  then  be- 
come narration,  dialogue,  and  song.  So  reduced,  purified,  made 
consistent,  are  these  three  literary  kinds  more  ultimate  than,  say, 
"description,  exposition,  narration"?  16 

Let  us  turn  from  these  "ultimates" — poetry,  fiction,  and  drama 
— to  what  might  be  thought  of  as  their  subdivisions:  the  eight- 
eenth-century critic,  Thomas  Hankins,  writes  on  English  drama 
illustrated    in    "its    various    species,    viz.,    mystery,    morality, 


Literary  Genres  239 

tragedy,  and  comedy."  Prose  fiction  had,  in  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, two  species:  the  novel  and  the  romance.  These  "subdivi- 
sions" of  groups  of  the  second  order  are,  we  think,  what  we 
should  normally  evoke  as  "genres." 

The  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  are  centuries  which 
take  genres  seriously  j  their  critics  are  men  for  whom  genres 
exist,  are  real.17  That  genres  are  distinct — and  also  should  be 
kept  distinct — is  a  general  article  of  Neo-Classical  faith.  But  if 
we  look  to  Neo-Classical  criticism  for  definition  of  genre  or 
method  of  distinguishing  genre  from  genre,  we  find  little  con- 
sistency or  even  awareness  of  the  need  for  a  rationale.  Boileau's 
canon,  for  example,  includes  the  pastoral,  the  elegy,  the  ode,  the 
epigram,  satire,  tragedy,  comedy,  and  the  epic;  yet  Boileau  does 
not  define  the  basis  of  this  typology  (perhaps  because  he  thinks 
of  the  typology  itself  as  historically  given,  not  a  rationalist  con- 
struction). Are  his  genres  differentiated  by  their  subject  matter, 
their  structure,  their  verse  form,  their  magnitude,  their  emo- 
tional tone,  their  Weltanschauung,  or  their  audience?  One  can- 
not answer.  But  one  might  say  that  for  many  Neo-Classicists  the 
whole  notion  of  genres  seems  so  self-evident  that  there  is  no 
general  problem  at  all.  Hugh  Blair  {Rhetoric  and  Belles  Lettres, 
1783)  has  a  series  of  chapters  on  the  principal  genres  but  no  in- 
troductory discussion  of  kinds  in  general  or  principles  of  literary 
classification.  Nor  do  the  kinds  he  selects  have  any  methodolog- 
ical or  other  consistency.  Most  of  them  go  back  to  the  Greeks, 
but  not  all :  he  discusses  at  length  "Descriptive  Poetry,"  in  which, 
he  says,  "the  highest  exertions  of  genius  may  be  displayed,"  yet 
by  it  he  does  not  mean  "any  one  particular  species  or  form  of 
composition,"  even,  apparently,  in  the  sense  in  which  one  may 
speak  of  a  species  of  "didactic  poem" — De  Rerum  Natura  or 
The  Essay  on  Man.  And  from  "Descriptive  Poetry,"  Blair  passes 
to  "The  Poetry  of  the  Hebrews,"  thought  of  as  "displaying  the 
taste  of  a  remote  age  and  country,"  as — though  Blair  nowhere 
says  or  quite  sees  this — a  specimen  of  Oriental  poetry,  a  poetry 
quite  unlike  that  of  the  ruling  Graeco-Roman-French  tradition. 
Thereafter  Blair  turns  to  discussing  what,  with  complete  or- 
thodoxy, he  calls  "the  two  highest  kinds  of  poetic  writing,  the 
epic  and  the  dramatic" :  he  might,  for  the  latter,  have  been  more 
precise  and  said  "the  tragedy." 


240  Theory  of  Literature 

Neo-Classical  theory  does  not  explain,  expound,  or  defend 
the  doctrine  of  kinds  or  the  basis  for  differentiation.  To  some 
extent,  it  attends  to  such  topics  as  purity  of  kind,  hierarchy  of 
kinds,  duration  of  kinds,  addition  of  new  kinds. 

Since  Neo-Classicism  was,  in  history,  a  mixture  of  authori- 
tarianism and  rationalism,  it  acted  as  a  conservative  force,  dis- 
posed, so  far  as  possible,  to  keep  to  and  adapt  the  kinds  of  ancient 
origin,  especially  the  poetic  kinds.  But  Boileau  admits  the  sonnet 
and  the  madrigal ;  and  Johnson  praises  Denham  for  having,  in 
Cooper's  Hill,  invented  "a  new  scheme  of  poetry,"  a  "species  of 
composition  that  may  be  denominated  local  poetry,"  and  judges 
Thomson's  Seasons  as  a  "poem  ...  of  a  new  kind"  and  Thom- 
son's "mode  of  thinking  and  of  expressing  his  thoughts"  in  it 


s     original." 


Purity  of  kind,  a  doctrine  historically  invoked  by  adherents 
of  classical  French  tragedy  as  against  an  Elizabethan  tragedy 
admissive  of  comic  scenes  (the  gravediggers  in  Hamlet ,  the 
drunken  porter  in  Macbeth),  is  Horatian  when  it  is  dogmatic 
and  Aristotelian  when  it  is  an  appeal  to  experience  and  to  edu- 
cated hedonism.  Tragedy,  says  Aristotle,  "ought  to  produce,  not 
any  chance  pleasure,  but  the  pleasure  proper  to  it.  .  .  .  "  1S 

The  hierarchy  of  kinds  is  partly  a  hedonistic  calculus:  in  its 
classical  statements,  the  scale  of  pleasure  is  not,  however,  quan- 
titative in  the  sense  either  of  sheer  intensity  or  of  number  of 
readers  or  hearers  participating.  It  is  a  mixture,  we  should  say,  of 
the  social,  the  moral,  the  aesthetic,  the  hedonistic,  and  the  tradi- 
tional. The  size  of  the  literary  work  is  not  disregarded:  the 
smaller  kinds,  like  the  sonnet  or  even  the  ode,  cannot,  it  seems 
axiomatic,  rank  with  the  epic  and  the  tragedy.  Milton's  "minor" 
poems  are  written  in  the  lesser  kinds,  e.g.,  the  sonnet,  the  can- 
zoney  the  masque;  his  "major"  poems  are  a  "regular"  tragedy 
and  two  epics.  If  we  applied  the  quantitative  test  to  the  two  high- 
est contestants,  epic  would  win  out.  Yet  at  this  point,  Aristotle 
hesitated  and,  after  discussion  of  conflicting  criteria,  awarded  the 
first  place  to  tragedy,  while  Renaissance  critics,  more  consistently, 
preferred  the  epic.  Though  there  is  much  subsequent  wavering 
between  the  claims  of  the  two  kinds,  Neo-Classical  critics,  such 
as  Hobbes  or  Dryden  or  Blair,  are  for  the  most  part  content  to 
give  them  joint  possession  of  the  prime  category. 


Literary  Genres  24 1 

We  come  then  to  another  type  of  groups,  those  in  which  stanza 
form  and  meter  are  the  determinants.  How  shall  we  classify  the 
sonnet,  the  rondeau,  the  ballade?  Are  they  genres  or  something 
else  and  less?  Most  recent  French  and  German  writers  incline  to 
speak  of  them  as  "fixed  forms"  and,  as  a  class,  to  differentiate 
them  from  genres.  Vietor,  however,  makes  an  exception — at 
least  for  the  sonnet ;  we  should  incline  to  wider  inclusion.  But 
here  we  move  from  terminology  to  defining  criteria:  Is  there 
such  a  genre  as  "octosyllabic  verse"  or  as  "dipodic  verse"?  We 
are  disposed  to  say  that  there  is,  and  to  mean  that,  as  against 
the  English  norm  of  iambic  pentameter,  the  eighteenth-century 
poem  in  octosyllabics,  or  the  early  twentieth-century  poem  in 
dipodics,  is  likely  to  be  a  particular  kind  of  poem  in  tone  or 
ethos,19  that  one  is  dealing  not  merely  with  a  classification  ac- 
cording to  meters  (such  as  one  may  find  at  the  back  of  the  hymn 
book,  with  its  CM.,  L.M.,  etc.)  but  with  something  more  inclu- 
sive, something  which  has  "inner"  as  well  as  "outer"  form. 

Genre  should  be  conceived,  we  think,  as  a  grouping  of  literary 
works  based,  theoretically,  upon  both  outer  form  (specific  meter 
or  structure)  and  also  upon  inner  form  (attitude,  tone,  purpose 
— more  crudely,  subject  and  audience).  The  ostensible  basis  may 
be  one  or  the  other  (e.g.,  "pastoral"  and  "satire"  for  the  inner 
form ;  dipodic  verse  and  Pindaric  ode  for  outer) ;  but  the  critical 
problem  will  then  be  to  find  the  other  dimension,  to  complete 
the  diagram. 

Sometimes  an  instructive  shift  occurs:  "elegy"  starts  out,  in 
English  as  well  as  in  the  archetypal  Greek  and  Roman  poetry, 
with  the  elegiac  couplet  or  distich  5  yet  the  ancient  elegiac  writers 
did  not  restrict  themselves  to  lament  for  the  dead,  nor  did  Ham- 
mond and  Shenstone,  Gray's  predecessors.  But  Gray's  "Elegy," 
written  in  the  heroic  quatrain,  not  in  couplets,  effectually  destroys 
any  continuation  in  English  of  elegy  as  any  tender  personal 
poem  written  in  end-stopped  couplets. 

One  might  be  inclined  to  give  up  genre  history  after  the 
eighteenth  century — on  the  ground  that  formal  expectations, 
repetitive  structural  patterns,  have  largely  gone  out.  Such  a 
hesitation  recurs  in  the  French  and  German  writing  about  genre, 
together  with  the  view  that  1 840- 1940  is  probably  an  anomalous 


242  Theory  of  Literature 

literary  period,  and  that  we  shall  doubtless  return  to  some  more 
genre-constituted  literature  in  the  future. 

Yet  it  seems  preferable  to  say  that  the  conception  of  the  genre 
shifts  in  the  nineteenth  century,  not  that  it — still  less  the  practice 
of  genre  writing — disappears.  With  the  vast  widening  of  the 
audience  in  the  nineteenth  century,  there  are  more  genres ;  and, 
with  the  more  rapid  diffusion  through  cheap  printing,  they  are 
shorter-lived  or  pass  through  more  rapid  transitions.  "Genre"  in 
the  nineteenth  century  and  in  our  own  time  suffers  from  the 
same  difficulty  as  "period":  we  are  conscious  of  the  quick  changes 
in  literary  fashion — a  new  literary  generation  every  ten  years, 
rather  than  every  fifty:  in  American  poetry,  the  age  of  vers  libre, 
the  age  of  Eliot,  the  age  of  Auden.  At  further  distance,  some  of 
these  specificities  may  be  seen  to  have  a  common  direction  and 
character  (as  we  now  think  of  Byron,  Wordsworth,  and  Shelley 
as  all  being  English  Romantics).20 

What  are  nineteenth-century  examples  of  genre?  The  his- 
torical novel  is  constantly  cited  by  Van  Tieghem  and  others.21 
How  about  the  "political  novel"  (subject  of  a  monograph  by 
M.  E.  Speare)  ?  And  if  there  is  a  political  novel,  is  there  not  also 
such  a  genre  as  the  ecclesiastical  novel  (which  includes  Robert 
Elseynere  and  Compton  Mackenzie's  The  Altar  Steps  as  well  as 
Barchester  Towers  and  Salem  Chapel)  ?  No,  here — with  the  "po- 
litical" novel  and  the  "ecclesiastical,"  we  seem  to  have  got  off 
into  a  grouping  based  only  on  subject  matter,  a  purely  sociolog- 
ical classification;  and  in  that  line  we  can  of  course  go  on  end- 
lessly— the  novel  of  the  Oxford  Movement,  Depiction  of 
Teachers  in  the  Nineteenth-Century  Novel,  Sailors  in  the  Nine- 
teenth-Century Novel,  also  Sea  Novels.  How  does  the  "his- 
torical novel"  differ?  Not  merely  because  its  subject  is  less 
restricted,  i.e.,  nothing  less  than  the  whole  of  the  past,  but 
primarily  because  of  the  ties  of  the  historical  novel  to  the  Ro- 
mantic movement  and  to  nationalism — because  of  the  new  feel- 
ing about,  attitude  toward,  the  past  which  it  implies.  The  Gothic 
novel  is  a  still  better  case,  beginning  in  the  eighteenth  century 
with  The  Castle  of  Otranto  and  coming  down  to  the  present. 
This  is  a  genre  by  all  the  criteria  one  can  invoke  for  a  prose- 
narrative  genre:  there  is  not  only  a  limited  and  continuous  sub- 
ject matter  or  thematics,  but  there  is  a  stock  of  devices  (descrip- 


Literary  Genres  243 

tive-accessory  and  narrative,  e.g.,  ruined  castles,  Roman  Catholic 
horrors,  mysterious  portraits,  secret  passageways  reached  through 
sliding  panels  j  abductions,  immurements,  pursuits  through 
lonely  forests)  j  there  is,  still  further,  a  Kunstwollen,  an  aesthetic 
intent,  an  intent  to  give  the  reader  a  special  sort  of  pleasurable 
horror  and  thrill  ("pity  and  terror"  some  of  the  Gothicists  may 
have  murmured).22 

In  general,  our  conception  of  genre  should  lean  to  the  for- 
malists side,  that  is,  incline  to  generize  Hudibrastic  octosyllabics 
or  the  sonnet  rather  than  the  political  novel  or  the  novel  about 
factory  workers:  we  are  thinking  of  "literary"  kinds,  not  such 
subject-matter  classifications  as  might  equally  be  made  for  non- 
fiction.  Aristotle's  Poetics,  which  roughly  nominates  epic,  drama, 
and  lyric  ("melic")  poetry  as  the  basic  kinds  of  poetry,  attends 
to  differentiating  media  and  the  propriety  of  each  to  the  aesthetic 
purpose  of  the  kind:  drama  is  in  iambic  verse  because  that  is 
nearest  to  conversation,  while  epic  requires  the  dactylic  hexameter 
which  is  not  at  all  reminiscent  of  speech:  "If  anyone  should  com- 
pose a  narrative  poem  in  any  other  meter  or  in  several,  it  would 
seem  unfitting,  for  the  heroic  is  the  most  stately  and  weighty  of 
the  meters  and  therefore  most  easily  receives  borrowed  words 
and  metaphors  and  ornaments  of  all  kinds.  .  .  ."  23  The  next 
level  of  "form"  above  "meter"  and  "stanza"  should  be  "struc- 
ture" (e.g.,  a  special  sort  of  plot  organization) :  this  we  have,  to 
some  extent,  at  least,  in  traditional,  i.e.,  Greek-imitative,  epic 
and  tragedy  (beginning  in  medias  res,  the  "peripety"  of  tragedy, 
the  unities).  Not  all  the  "classical  devices"  seem  structural,  how- 
ever; the  battle  piece  and  the  descent  into  the  Lower  World 
appear  to  belong  to  subject  matter  or  theme.  In  post-eighteenth- 
century  literature,  this  level  is  not  so  easy  to  locate,  except  in  the 
"well-made  play"  or  the  detective  novel  (the  murder  mystery), 
where  the  close  plot  is  such  a  structure.  But  even  in  the 
Chekhovian  tradition  of  the  short  story,  there  exists  an  or- 
ganization, a  structure,  only  of  a  different  sort  from  the  short 
story  of  Poe  or  O.  Henry  (we  can  call  it  a  "looser"  organiza- 
tion if  we  choose).24 

Anyone  interested  in  genre  theory  must  be  careful  not  to  con- 
found the  distinctive  differences  between  "classical"  and  modern 
theory.  Classical  theory  is  regulative  and  prescriptive,  though  its 


244  Theory  of  Literature 

"rules"  are  not  the  silly  authoritarianism  still  often  attributed 
to  them.  Classical  theory  not  only  believes  that  genre  differs 
from  genre,  in  nature  and  in  glory,  but  also  that  they  must  be 
kept  apart,  not  allowed  to  mix.  This  is  the  famous  doctrine  of 
"purity  of  genre,"  of  the  "genre  tranche."  25  Though  it  was  never 
worked  out  with  sharp  consistency,  there  was  a  real  aesthetic 
principle  (not  merely  a  set  of  caste  distinctions)  involved:  it  was 
the  appeal  to  a  rigid  unity  of  tone,  a  stylized  purity  and  "sim- 
plicity," a  concentration  on  a  single  emotion  (terror  or  laughter) 
as  on  a  single  plot  or  theme.  There  was  an  appeal  also  to  spe- 
cialization and  pluralism:  each  kind  of  art  has  its  own  capacities 
and  its  own  pleasure:  Why  should  poetry  try  to  be  "picturesque" 
or  "musical,"  or  music  try  to  tell  a  story  or  describe  a  scene? 
Applying  the  principle  of  "aesthetic  purity"  in  that  sense,  we 
arrive  at  the  conclusion  that  a  symphony  is  "purer"  than  an  opera 
or  oratorio  (which  is  both  choral  and  orchestral)  but  a  string 
quartet  still  purer  (since  it  uses  but  one  of  the  orchestral  choirs, 
leaving  behind  the  woodwinds,  brasses,  and  percussive  instru- 
ments). 

Classical  theory  had,  too,  its  social  differentiation  of  genres. 
Epic  and  tragedy  deal  with  the  affairs  of  kings  and  nobles, 
comedy  with  those  of  the  middle  class  (the  city,  the  bourgeoisie), 
and  satire  and  farce  with  the  common  people.  And  that  sharp 
distinction  in  the  dramatis  fersonae  proper  to  each  kind  has  its 
concomitants  in  the  doctrine  of  "decorum"  (class  "mores")  and 
the  separation  of  styles  and  dictions  into  high,  middle,  and  base.26 
It  had,  too,  its  hierarchy  of  kinds,  in  which  not  merely  the  rank 
of  the  characters  and  the  style  counted  as  elements  but  also  the 
length  or  size  (the  capacity  for  sustaining  power)  and  the 
seriousness  of  tone. 

A  modern  sympathizer  with  "genology"  (as  Van  Tieghem 
calls  our  study)  2T  is  likely  to  want  to  make  a  case  for  the  Neo- 
classical doctrine,  and  to  feel  indeed  that  a  much  better  case  (on 
grounds  of  aesthetic  theory)  can  be  made  than  their  theorists 
actually  delivered.  That  case  we  have  partly  put  in  expositing 
the  principle  of  aesthetic  purity.  But  we  must  not  narrow  "gen- 
ology" to  a  single  tradition  or  doctrine.  "Classicism"  was  in- 
tolerant of,  indeed  unwitting  of,  other  aesthetic  systems,  kinds, 
forms.  Instead  of  recognizing  the  Gothic  cathedral  as  a  "form," 


Literary  Genres  245 

one  more  complex  than  the  Greek  temple,  it  found  in  it  nothing 
but  formlessness.  So  with  genres.  Every  "culture"  has  its  genres : 
the  Chinese,  the  Arabian,  the  Irish;  there  are  primitive  oral 
"kinds."  Medieval  literature  abounded  in  kinds.28  We  have  no 
need  to  defend  the  "ultimate"  character  of  the  Graeco-Roman 
kinds.  Nor  need  we  defend,  in  its  Graeco-Roman  form,  the 
doctrine  of  generic  purity,  which  appeals  to  one  kind  of  aesthetic 
criterion. 

Modern  genre  theory  is,  clearly,  descriptive.  It  doesn't  limit 
the  number  of  possible  kinds  and  doesn't  prescribe  rules  to 
authors.  It  supposes  that  traditional  kinds  may  be  "mixed"  and 
produce  a  new  kind  (like  tragicomedy).  It  sees  that  genres  can 
be  built  up  on  the  basis  of  inclusiveness  or  "richness"  as  well  as 
that  of  "purity"  (genre  by  accretion  as  well  as  by  reduction).  In- 
stead of  emphasizing  the  distinction  between  kind  and  kind,  it  is 
interested — after  the  Romantic  emphasis  on  the  uniqueness  of 
each  "original  genius"  and  each  work  of  art — in  finding  the  com- 
mon denominator  of  a  kind,  its  shared  literary  devices  and  lit- 
erary purpose. 

Men's  pleasure  in  a  literary  work  is  compounded  of  the  sense 
of  novelty  and  the  sense  of  recognition.  In  music,  the  sonata 
form  and  the  fugue  are  obvious  instances  of  patterns  to  be  recog- 
nized j  in  the  murder  mystery,  there  is  the  gradual  closing  in  or 
tightening  of  the  plot — the  gradual  convergence  (as  in  Oedifus) 
of  the  lines  of  evidence.  The  totally  familiar  and  repetitive  pat- 
tern is  boring  j  the  totally  novel  form  will  be  unintelligible — is 
indeed  unthinkable.  The  genre  represents,  so  to  speak,  a  sum  of 
aesthetic  devices  at  hand,  available  to  the  writer  and  already  in- 
telligible to  the  reader.  The  good  writer  partly  conforms  to  the 
genre  as  it  exists,  partly  stretches  it.  By  and  large,  great  writers 
are  not  the  inventors  of  genres :  Shakespeare  and  Racine,  Moliere 
and  Jonson,  Dickens  and  Dostoevsky,  enter  into  other  men's 
labors. 

One  of  the  obvious  values  of  genre  study  is  precisely  the  fact 
that  it  calls  attention  to  the  internal  development  of  literature, 
to  what  Henry  Wells  (in  New  Poets  from  Old,  1940)  has  called 
"literary  genetics."  Whatever  the  relations  of  literature  to  other 
realms  of  value,  books  are  influenced  by  books  j  books  imitate, 
parody,  transform  other  books — not  merely  those  which  follow 


246  Theory  of  Literature 

them  in  strict  chronological  succession.  For  the  definition  of 
modern  genres  one  probably  does  best  to  start  with  a  specific 
highly  influential  book  or  author,  and  look  for  the  reverbera- 
tions: the  literary  effect  of  Eliot  and  Auden,  Proust  and  Kafka. 

Some  important  topics  for  genre  theory  we  should  like  to  sug- 
gest, though  we  can  offer  only  questions  and  tentatives.  One  con- 
cerns the  relation  of  primitive  genres  (those  of  folk  or  oral 
literature)  to  those  of  a  developed  literature.  Shklovsky,  one  of 
the  Russian  formalists,  holds  that  new  art  forms  are  "simply  the 
canonization  of  inferior  (sub-literary)  genres."  Dostoevsky's 
novels  are  a  series  of  glorified  crime  novels,  romans  a  sensationy 
"Pushkin's  lyrics  come  from  album  verses,  Blok's  from  gipsy 
songs,  Mayakovsky's  from  funny-paper  poetry." 29  Berthold 
Brecht  in  German  and  Auden  in  English  both  show  the  delib- 
erate attempt  at  this  transformation  of  popular  poetry  into 
serious  literature.  This  might  be  called  the  view  that  literature 
needs  constantly  to  renew  itself  by  "rebarbarization."  30  A  similar 
view,  that  of  Andre  Jolles,  would  urge  that  complex  literary 
forms  develop  out  of  simpler  units.  The  primitive  or  elementary 
genres,  by  compounding  of  which  one  can  arrive  at  all  the  others, 
Jolles  finds  to  be:  Legendey  Sage,  My 'the ,  Ratsel,  Sfruchy 
KasuSy  JVLemorabiley  Marchen,  Witz.31  The  history  of  the  novel 
appears  an  instance  of  some  such  development:  behind  its  ar- 
rival at  maturity  in  Pamela  and  Tom  Jones  and  Tristram  Shandy 
lie  such  "einfache  Formen"  as  the  letter,  the  diary,  the  travel 
book  (or  "imaginary  voyage"),  the  memoir,  the  seventeenth- 
century  "character,"  the  essay,  as  well  as  the  stage  comedy,  the 
epic,  and  the  romance. 

Another  question  has  to  do  with  the  continuity  of  genres. 
Brunetiere,  it  is  generally  agreed,  did  a  disservice  to  "genology" 
by  his  quasi-biological  theory  of  "evolution,"  producing  such 
specific  conclusions  as  that,  in  French  literary  history,  seven- 
teenth-century pulpit  oratory  turns  (after  an  hiatus)  into  nine- 
teenth-century lyrical  poetry.32  This  alleged  continuity  seems, 
like  Van  Tieghem's  alliance  of  the  Homeric  epic  and  the  Waver- 
ley  novels,  the  courtly  metrical  romance,  and  the  modern  psy- 
chological novel,  linkages  between  works  separated  in  space  and 
time,  based  upon  analogies  in  the  dispositions  of  authors  and 
audiences — "quelques  tendances  frimordiales."  But  Van  Tieghem 


Literary  Genres  li^"] 

breaks  off  from  this  kind  of  analogizing  to  remark  that  these 
linkages  do  not  represent  "les  genres  litteraires — fro-prement 
dits."  33  We  ought,  surely,  to  be  able  to  produce  some  strict 
formal  continuity  in  order  to  claim  generic  succession  and  unity. 
Is  tragedy  one  genre?  We  recognize  periods  and  national  modes 
of  tragedy:  Greek  tragedy,  Elizabethan,  French  classical,  nine- 
teenth-century German.  Are  these  so  many  separate  genres,  or 
species  of  one  genre?  The  answer  seems  to  depend  at  least 
partly  on  formal  continuity  from  classical  antiquity,  partly  on  in- 
tention. When  we  come  to  the  nineteenth  century,  the  question 
becomes  more  difficult:  How  about  Chekhov's  Cherry  Orchard 
and  Sea-Gull,  Ibsen's  G  hosts  y  Rosmersholm,  Master-Builder? 
Are  they  tragedies?  The  medium  has  changed  from  verse  to 
prose.  The  conception  of  the  "tragic  hero"  has  changed.  We  have 
to  ask  questions  like,  "Did  they  know  the  tragic  masterpieces  of 
the  past?"  and  "Was  it  the  intention  of  Chekhov  and  Ibsen  to 
write  plays  which  should  be  modern  equivalents  of  the  tragedies, 
so  named  and  so  conceived,  written  in  the  past?" 

These  questions  lead  us  to  the  question  concerning  the  nature 
of  a  genre  history.  It  has  been  argued  on  the  one  hand  that  to 
write  a  critical  history  is  impossible  (since  to  take  Shakespeare's 
tragedies  as  a  norm  is  to  do  injustice  to  those  of  the  Greeks  and 
the  French),  and  on  the  other,  that  a  history  without  a  philos- 
ophy of  history  is  a  mere  chronicle.34  Both  contentions  have 
force.  The  answer  would  appear  to  be  that  the  history  of  Eliza- 
bethan tragedy  can  be  written  in  terms  of  the  development 
toward  Shakespeare  and  the  decline  from  him,  but  that  anything 
like  a  history  of  tragedy  will  have  to  practice  a  double  method, 
that  is,  define  "tragedy"  in  common  denominator  terms  and 
trace  in  chronicle  fashion  the  links  between  one  period-and- 
nation  tragic  school  and  its  successor,  but  upon  this  continuum 
superimpose  a  sense  of  critical  sequences  (e.g.,  French  tragedy 
from  Jodelle  to  Racine  and  from  Racine  to  Voltaire). 

The  subject  of  the  genre,  it  is  clear,  raises  central  questions  for 
literary  history  and  literary  criticism  and  for  their  interrelation. 
It  puts,  in  a  specifically  literary  context,  the  philosophical  ques- 
tions concerning  the  relation  of  the  class  and  the  individuals 
composing  it,  the  one  and  the  many,  the  nature  of  universals. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

Evaluation 

It  is  convenient  to  distinguish  between  the  terms  "value"  and 
"evaluate."  Through  history,  mankind  has  "valued"  literature, 
oral  and  printed,  that  is,  has  taken  interest  in  it,  has  assigned 
positive  worth  to  it.  But  critics  and  philosophers  who  have 
"evaluated"  literature,  or  specific  literary  works,  may  come  to  a 
negative  verdict.  In  any  case,  we  pass  from  the  experience  of 
interest  to  the  act  of  judgment.  By  reference  to  a  norm,  by  the 
application  of  criteria,  by  comparison  of  it  with  other  objects 
and  interests,  we  estimate  the  rank  of  an  object  or  an  interest. 

If  we  attempt  in  any  detail  to  describe  mankind's  concern  with 
literature,  we  shall  get  into  difficulties  of  definition.  Only  very 
gradually  does  literature,  in  any  modern  sense,  emerge  from 
the  culture  cluster  of  song,  dance,  and  religious  ritual  in  which 
it  appears  to  originate.  And  if  we  are  to  describe  mankind's  at- 
tachment to  literature,  we  should  analyze  the  fact  of  attachment 
into  its  component  parts.  What,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  have  men 
valued  literature  for?  What  kinds  of  value  or  worth  or  interest 
have  they  found  in  it?  Very  many  kinds,  we  should  answer: 
Horace's  summary  dulce  et  utile  we  might  translate  as  "enter- 
tainment" and  "edification,"  or  "play"  and  "work,"  or  "terminal 
value"  and  "instrumental  value,"  or  "art"  and  "propaganda" — 
or  art  as  end  in  itself  and  art  as  communal  ritual  and  culture 
binder. 

If  now  we  ask  for  something-  normative — how  ought  men  to 
value  and  evaluate  literature? — we  have  to  answer  with  some 
definitions.  Men  ought  to  value  literature  for  being  what  it  is; 
they  ought  to  evaluate  it  in  terms  and  in  degrees  of  its  literary 
value.1  The  nature,  the  function,  and  the  evaluation  of  literature 
must  necessarily  exist  in  close  correlation.  The  use  of  a  thing — its 
habitual  or  most  expert  or  proper  use — must  be  that  use  to  which 
its  nature  (or  its  structure)  designs  it.  Its  nature  is,  in  potence, 

248 


Evaluation  249 

what,  in  act,  is  its  function.  It  is  what  it  can  doj  it  can  do  and 
should  do  what  it  is.  We  must  value  things  for  what  they  are  and 
can  do,  and  evaluate  them  by  comparison  with  other  things  of 
like  nature  and  function. 

We  ought  to  evaluate  literature  in  terms  and  degrees  of  its 
own  nature.  What  is  its  own  nature?  What  is  literature  as  such? 
What  is  "pure"  literature?  The  phrasing  of  the  questions  implies 
some  analytic  or  reductive  process  j  the  kind  of  answer  arrives  at 
conceptions  of  "pure  poetry" — imagism  or  echolalia.  But  if  we 
try  to  press  for  purity  along  such  lines,  we  must  break  up  the 
amalgam  of  visual  imagery  and  euphony  into  painting  and 
music  -y  and  poetry  disappears. 

Such  a  conception  of  purity  is  one  of  analyzing  elements.  We 
do  better  to  start  with  organization  and  function.  It  is  not  what 
elements  but  how  they  are  put  together,  and  with  what  function, 
which  determine  whether  a  given  work  is  or  is  not  literature.2 
In  their  reformatory  zeal,  certain  older  advocates  of  "pure  lit- 
erature" identified  the  mere  presence  of  ethical  or  social  ideas  in 
a  novel  or  a  poem  as  the  "didactic  heresy."  But  literature  is  not 
defiled  by  the  presence  of  ideas  literarily  used,  used  as  integral 
parts  of  the  literary  work — as  materials — like  the  characters  and 
the  settings.  What  literature  is,  by  modern  definition,  "pure  of" 
is  practical  intent  (propaganda,  incitation  to  direct,  immediate 
action)  and  scientific  intent  (provision  of  information,  facts, 
"additions  to  knowledge").  By  "pure  of"  we  don't  mean  that 
the  novel  or  poem  lacks  "elements,"  disengaged  elements,  which 
can  be  taken  practically  or  scientifically,  when  removed  from 
their  context.  Again,  we  don't  mean  that  a  "pure"  novel  or  poem 
can't,  as  a  whole,  be  read  "impurely."  All  things  can  be  misused, 
or  used  inadequately,  i.e.,  in  functions  not  centrally  relevant  to 
their  natures: 

As  some  to  church  repair 

Not  for  the  doctrine  but  the  music  there. 

In  their  day,  Gogol's  "The  Cloak"  and  Dead  Souls  were  ap- 
parently misread,  even  by  intelligent  critics.  Yet  the  view  that 
they  were  propaganda,  a  misreading  explicable  in  terms  of  iso- 
lated passages  and  elements  in  them,  is  scarcely  to  be  reconciled 
with  the  elaborateness  of  their  literary  organization,  their  com- 


250  Theory  of  Literature 

plicated  devices  of  irony,  parody,  word  play,  mimicry,  and 
burlesque.  Like  the  fine  arts  and  music,  literature  has  as  its  prime 
function  the  provision  of  experience. 

In  thus  defining  the  function  of  literature,  have  we  settled 
anything?  In  a  sense,  the  whole  issue  in  aesthetics  might  be  said 
to  lie  between  the  view  which  asserts  the  existence  of  a  separate, 
irreducible  "aesthetic  experience"  (an  autonomous  realm  of  art) 
and  that  which  makes  the  arts  instrumental  to  science  and  society, 
which  denies  such  a  tertium  quid  as  the  "aesthetic  value,"  inter- 
mediate between  "knowledge"  and  "action,"  between  science 
and  philosophy  on  the  one  side  and  ethics  and  politics  on  the 
other.3  Of  course  one  need  not  deny  that  works  of  art  have  value 
because  one  denies  some  ultimate,  irreducible  "aesthetic  value": 
one  may  merely  "reduce,"  break  up,  distribute  the  values  of  the 
work  of  art,  or  of  art,  between  what  he  accredits  as  the  "real," 
"ultimate"  systems  of  value.  He  may,  like  some  philosophers, 
regard  the  arts  as  primitive  and  inferior  forms  of  knowledge,  or 
he  may,  like  some  reformers,  measure  them  in  terms  of  their 
supposed  efficacy  in  inducing  action.  He  may  find  the  value  of 
the  arts  (particularly  literature)  precisely  in  their  inclusiveness, 
their  unspecialized  inclusiveness.  For  writers  and  critics,  this  is 
a  more  grandiose  claim  to  make  than  the  claim  of  expertness  at 
the  construction  or  interpretation  of  literary  works  of  art.  It 
gives  the  "literary  mind"  a  final  "prophetic"  authority,  possession 
of  a  distinctive  "truth"  wider  and  deeper  than  the  truths  of 
science  and  philosophy.  But  these  grandiose  claims  are  by  their 
very  grandiosity  difficult  to  defend,  except  in  that  kind  of  game 
at  which  each  realm  of  value — whether  religion,  philosophy,  eco- 
nomics, or  art — claims,  in  its  own  ideal  form,  to  include  all  that 
is  best,  or  real,  in  the  others.4  To  accept  the  status  of  literature  as 
one  of  the  fine  arts  seems,  to  some  of  her  defenders,  like  timidity 
and  treason.  Literature  has  claimed  to  be  both  a  superior  form  of 
knowledge  and  a  form  also  of  ethical  and  social  action:  to  with- 
draw these  claims,  is  it  not  to  renounce  obligation  as  well  as 
status?  And  doesn't  each  realm  (like  each  expanding  nation  and 
ambitious,  self-confident  individual)  have  to  claim  more  than  he 
expects  to  be  conceded  by  his  neighbors  and  rivals? 

Some  literary  apologists  would,  then,  deny  that  literature  can 
properly  be  treated  as  a  "fine  art,"  in  aesthetic  terms.  Others 


Evaluation  251 

would  deny  such  concepts  as  "aesthetic  value"  and  "aesthetic  ex- 
perience" so  far  as  they  assert  or  imply  some  unique  category.  Is 
there  a  distinct  autonomous  realm  of  "aesthetic  experience"  or  of 
aesthetic  objects  and  qualities,  by  their  nature  capable  of  eliciting 
such  an  experience? 

Most  philosophers  since  Kant  and  most  men  seriously  con- 
cerned with  the  arts  agree  that  the  fine  arts,  including  literature, 
have  a  unique  character  and  value.  One  cannot,  says  Theodore 
Greene,  for  example,  "reduce  artistic  quality  to  other  more  prim- 
itive qualities" j  and  he  goes  on:  "the  unique  character  of  the 
artistic  quality  of  a  work  can  only  be  immediately  intuited,  and 
though  it  can  be  exhibited  and  denoted,  it  cannot  be  defined  or 
even  described."  5 

Upon  the  character  of  the  unique  aesthetic  experience,  there  is 
large  agreement  among  philosophers.  In  his  Critique  of  Judg- 
ment, Kant  stresses  the  "purposiveness  without  purpose"  (the 
purpose  not  directed  toward  action)  of  art,  the  aesthetic  su- 
periority of  "pure"  over  "adherent"  or  applied  beauty,  the  dis- 
interestedness of  the  experiencer  (who  must  not  want  to  own  or 
consume  or  otherwise  turn  into  sensation  or  conation  what  is 
designed  for  perception).  The  aesthetic  experience,  our  con- 
temporary theorists  agree,  is  a  perception  of  quality  intrinsically 
pleasant  and  interesting,  offering  a  terminal  value  and  a  sample 
and  foretaste  of  other  terminal  values,  other  "rests"  and  fulfill- 
ments. It  is  connected  with  feeling  (pleasure-pain,  hedonistic 
response)  and  the  senses ;  but  it  objectifies  and  articulates  feeling 
— the  feeling  finds,  in  the  work  of  art,  an  "objective  correlative," 
and  it  is  distanced  from  sensation  and  conation  by  its  object's 
frame  of  fictionality,  its  character  of  "imitation,"  that  is,  con- 
scious perception.  The  aesthetic  object  is  that  which  interests  me 
for  its  own  qualities,  which  I  don't  endeavor  to  reform  or  turn 
into  a  part  of  myself,  appropriate,  or  consume.  The  aesthetic  ex- 
perience is  a  form  of  contemplation,  a  loving  attention  to  qual- 
ities and  qualitative  structures.  Practicality  is  one  enemy  j  the  chief 
other  is  habit,  operative  along  lines  once  laid  down  by  practicality. 

The  work  of  literature  is  an  aesthetic  object,  capable  of  arous- 
ing aesthetic  experience.  Can  we  evaluate  a  literary  work  entirely 
upon  aesthetic  criteria,  or  do  we  need,  as  T.  S.  Eliot  suggests,  to 
judge  the  literariness  of  literature  by  aesthetic  criteria  and  the 


252  Theory  of  Literature 

greatness  of  literature  by  extra-aesthetic  criteria?  6  Eliot's  first 
judgment  should  be  dichotomized.  Of  a  specific  verbal  construc- 
tion, we  classify  it  as  literature  (i.e.,  story,  poem,  play)  and  then 
we  ask  whether  or  not  it  is  "good  literature,"  i.e.,  of  rank  worth 
the  attention  of  the  aesthetically  experienced.  The  question  of 
"greatness"  brings  us  to  standards  and  norms.  Modern  critics 
limiting  themseves  to  aesthetic  criticism  are  commonly  called 
"formalists" — sometimes  by  themselves,  sometimes  (pejora- 
tively) by  others.  At  least  as  ambiguous  is  the  cognate  word 
"form."  As  we  shall  use  it  here,  it  names  the  aesthetic  structure 
of  a  literary  work — that  which  makes  it  literature.7  Instead  of 
dichotomizing  "form-content,"  we  should  think  of  matter  and 
then  of  "form,"  that  which  aesthetically  organizes  its  "matter." 
In  a  successful  work  of  art,  the  materials  are  completely  as- 
similated into  the  form:  what  was  "world"  has  become  "lan- 
guage." 8  The  "materials"  of  a  literary  work  of  art  are,  on  one 
level,  words,  on  another  level,  human  behavior  experience,  and 
on  another,  human  ideas  and  attitudes.  All  of  these,  including 
language,  exist  outside  the  work  of  art,  in  other  modes ;  but  in 
a  successful  poem  or  novel  they  are  pulled  into  polyphonic  rela- 
tions by  the  dynamics  of  aesthetic  purpose. 

Is  it  possible  adequately  to  evaluate  literature  by  purely 
formalistic  criteria?  We  shall  outline  an  answer. 

The  criterion  which  Russian  formalism  makes  primary  ap- 
pears also  in  aesthetic  evaluation  elsewhere:  it  is  novelty,  sur- 
prise. The  familiar  linguistic  block  or  "cliche"  is  not  heard  as 
immediate  perception:  the  words  are  not  attended  to  as  words, 
nor  is  their  joint  referent  precisely  made  out.  Our  response  to 
trite,  stock  language  is  a  "stock  response,"  either  action  along 
familiar  grooves  or  boredom.  We  "realize"  the  words  and  what 
they  symbolize  only  when  they  are  freshly  and  startlingly  put 
together.  Language  must  be  "deformed,"  i.e.,  stylized,  either  in 
the  direction  of  the  archaic  or  otherwise  remote,  or  in  the  direc- 
tion of  "barbarization,"  before  readers  attend  to  it.  So  Viktor 
Shklovsky  speaks  of  poetry  as  "making  it  new,"  "making  it 
strange."  But  this  criterion  of  novelty  has  been  very  widespread, 
at  least  since  the  Romantic  movement — that  "Renascence  of 
Wonder,"  as  Watts-Dunton  called  it.  Wordsworth  and  Cole- 
ridge were  variously,  correlatively,  working  to  "make  it  strange," 


Evaluation  253 

as  one  sought  to  give  strangeness  to  the  familiar  and  the  other  to 
domesticate  the  wonderful.  Each  more  recent  "movement"  in 
poetry  has  had  the  same  design:  to  clear  away  all  automatic 
response,  to  promote  a  renewal  of  language  (a  "Revolution  of 
the  Word"),  and  a  sharpened  realization.  The  Romantic  move- 
ment exalted  the  child  for  his  unjaded,  fresh  perception.  Matisse 
labored  to  learn  to  paint  as  a  five-year-old  sees.  The  aesthetic 
discipline,  urged  Pater,  forbids  habits  as  failures  in  perception. 
Novelty  is  the  criterion,  but  novelty,  we  must  remember,  for 
the  sake  of  the  disinterested  perception  of  quality.9 

How  far  can  this  criterion  carry  us?  As  applied  by  the  Rus- 
sians, it  is  admittedly  relativist.  There  is  no  aesthetic  norm,  says 
Mukafovsky,  for  it  is  the  essence  of  the  aesthetic  norm  to  be 
broken.10  No  poetic  style  stays  strange.  Hence,  Mukafovsky 
argues,  works  can  lose  their  aesthetic  function  and  then  later,  per- 
haps, regain  it — after  the  too  familiar  becomes  again  unfamiliar. 
In  the  case  of  specific  poems,  we  all  know  what  it  is  to  "use  them 
up,"  temporarily.  Sometimes  we  later  come  back  to  them,  again 
and  again  ;  sometimes  we  appear  to  have  exhausted  them.  So,  as 
literary  history  moves  on,  some  poets  grow  strange  again,  others 
remain  "familiar."  1X 

In  speaking  of  personal  returns  to  a  work,  however,  we  seem 
already  to  have  passed,  in  effect,  to  another  criterion.  When  we 
return  again  and  again  to  a  work,  saying  that  we  "see  new  things 
in  it  each  time,"  we  ordinarily  mean  not  more  things  of  the  same 
kind,  but  new  levels  of  meaning,  new  patterns  of  association:  we 
find  the  poem  or  novel  manifoldly  organized.  The  literary  work 
which,  like  Homer  or  Shakespeare,  continues  to  be  admired, 
must  possess,  we  conclude  with  George  Boas,  a  "multivalence" : 
its  aesthetic  value  must  be  so  rich  and  comprehensive  as  to  in- 
clude among  its  structures  one  or  more  which  gives  high  satis- 
faction to  each  later  period.12  But  such  work,  even  in  its  author's 
time,  must  be  conceived  of  as  so  rich  that  rather  a  community 
than  a  single  individual  can  realize  all  its  strata  and  systems.  In  a 
play  by  Shakespeare,  "For  the  simplest  auditors  there  is  the  plot, 
for  the  more  thoughtful  the  character  and  conflict  of  character, 
for  the  more  literary  the  words  and  phrasing,  for  the  more 
musically  sensitive  the  rhythm,  and  for  auditors  of  greater 
understanding  and  sensitiveness  a  meaning  which  reveals  itself 


254  Theory  of  Literature 

gradually."  13  Our  criterion  is  inclusiveness :  "imaginative  in- 
tegration" and  "amount  (and  diversity)  of  material  inte- 
grated." 14  The  tighter  the  organization  of  the  poem,  the  higher 
its  value,  according  to  formalistic  criticism,  which  indeed  often 
limits  itself,  in  practice,  to  works  so  complex  of  structures  as  to 
need  and  reward  exegesis.  These  complexities  may  be  on  one  or 
more  levels.  In  Hopkins,  they  are  primarily  dictional,  syntactical, 
prosodic;  but  there  may  also,  or  instead,  be  complexities  on  the 
level  of  imagery  or  thematics  or  tone  or  plot:  the  works  of 
highest  value  are  complex  also  in  those  upper  structures. 

By  diversity  of  materials,  we  may  mean  particularly  ideas, 
characters,  types  of  social  and  psychological  experience.  Eliot's 
celebrated  instance  in  "The  Metaphysical  Poets"  is  relevant.  By 
way  of  showing  that  the  poet's  mind  is  "constantly  amalgamat- 
ing disparate  experience,"  he  imagines  such  a  whole  formed  of 
the  poet's  falling  in  love,  reading  Spinoza,  hearing  the  sound  of 
a  typewriter,  and  smelling  something  cooking.  Dr.  Johnson  had 
described  this  same  amalgamation  as  a  discordia  concors,  and, 
thinking  of  failures  rather  than  successes  in  the  method,  finds 
that  "the  most  heterogeneous  ideas  are  yoked  by  violence  to- 
gether." A  later  writer  on  the  "Metaphysicals,"  George  Wil- 
liamson, singles  out,  for  the  most  part,  the  successes.  Our  prin- 
ciple here  would  be  that,  provided  a  real  "amalgamation"  takes 
place,  the  value  of  the  poem  rises  in  direct  ratio  to  the  diversity 
of  its  materials. 

In  Three  Lectures  on  Aesthetic  y  Bosanquet  distinguishes  "easy 
beauty"  from  "difficult  beauty,"  with  its  "intricacy,"  "tension," 
and  "width."  We  might  express  the  distinction  as  between  a 
beauty  achieved  out  of  tractable  materials  (euphony,  pleasing 
visual  images,  the  "poetic  subject")  and  beauty  wrested  from 
materials  which,  as  materials,  are  recalcitrant:  the  painful,  the 
ugly,  the  didactic,  the  practical.  This  distinction  was  adumbrated 
by  the  eighteenth  century  in  its  contrast  of  the  "beautiful"  and 
the  "sublime"  ("difficult  beauty").  The  "sublime"  and  the 
"characteristic"  aestheticize  that  which  appears  "unaesthetic." 
Tragedy  invades  and  gives  expressive  form  to  the  painful; 
comedy  similarly  masters  the  ugly.  The  easier  beauties  are  im- 
mediately agreeable  in  their  "materials"  and  their  plastic 
"forms";  difficult  beauty  is  one  of  expressive  form. 


Evaluation  255 

"Difficult"  beauty  and  artistic  "greatness"  are,  it  would  ap- 
pear, to  be  equated,  as  "perfect"  art  and  "great"  art  should  not 
be.  The  element  of  size  or  length  is  important,  not  of  course  for 
itself  but  as  making  possible  an  increase  in  the  intricacy,  tension, 
and  width  of  the  work.  A  "major"  work,  or  a  "major"  genre,  is 
one  of  dimension.  If  we  cannot  deal  with  this  factor  as  simply  as 
Neo-Classical  theorists  did,  we  cannot  dismiss  it :  we  can  but  exact 
that  scope  must  be  economical,  that  the  long  poem  today  must 
"do"  in  return  for  its  space  more  than  it  used. 

To  some  aestheticians,  "greatness"  involves  recourse  to  extra- 
aesthetic  criteria.15  Thus  L.  A.  Reid  proposes  to  defend  "the 
view  that  greatness  comes  from  the  content  side  of  art,  and  that, 
roughly,  art  is  'great'  in  so  far  as  it  is  expressive  of  the  'great' 
values  of  life" ;  and  T.  M.  Greene  proposes  "truth"  and  "great- 
ness" as  extra-aesthetic  but  necessary  standards  of  art.  In  practice, 
however,  Greene  and  especially  Reid  hardly  get  beyond  Bosan- 
quet's  criteria  for  difficult  beauty.  For  example,  "the  great  works 
of  the  great  poets,  Sophocles,  Dante,  Milton,  Shakespeare,  are 
organized  embodiments  of  a  large  variety  of  human  experience." 
The  "notes"  or  criteria  of  greatness  in  any  realm  of  theory  or 
practice  appear  to  have  in  common  "a  grasp  of  the  complex,  with 
a  sense  of  proportion  and  relevance" ;  but  these  common  charac- 
ters of  greatness,  when  they  appear  in  a  work  of  art,  have  to 
appear  in  "an  embodied  value-situation,"  as  "an  embodied  value 
to  be  savoured  and  enjoyed."  Reid  doesn't  ask  the  question:  Is 
the  great  poem  the  work  of  a  poet  who  is  a  great  man  (or  mind 
or  personality),  or  is  it  great  as  a  poem?  Instead,  he  attempts  to 
reconcile  the  implied  answers.  Though  he  finds  the  great  poem 
great  by  its  scope  and  judgment,  he  applies  these  criteria  only 
to  the  poem  as  poetically  shaped,  not  to  some  hypothetical 
Erlebnis.16 

Dante's  Divine  Comedy  and  Milton's  Paradise  Lost  are  good 
test  cases  for  formalist  treatment.  Croce,  refusing  to  see  the 
Comedy  as  a  poem,  reduces  it  to  a  series  of  lyrical  extracts  inter- 
rupted by  pseudo-science.  The  "long  poem"  and  the  "philo- 
sophical poem"  both  seem  to  him  self-contradictory  phrases. 
The  aestheticism  of  a  generation  ago,  as  instanced  in  a  writer  like 
Logan  Pearsall  Smith,  sees  Paradise  Lost  as  a  compound  of  out- 
moded theology  and  auditory  delight — the  celebrated  "organ 


256  Theory  of  Literature 

harmonies,"  which  are  all  that  is  left  to  Milton.17  The  "content" 
has  to  be  disregarded  3  the  form  is  disengageable. 

Such  judgments  should  not,  we  think,  be  accepted  as  satisfac- 
tory versions  of  "formalism."  They  take  an  atomistic  view  of  the 
work  of  art,  estimating  the  relative  poeticality  of  its  materials 
instead  of  the  poeticality  of  the  total  work,  which  may  magnetize 
to  its  purpose  much  which,  out  of  this  context,  would  be  abstract 
discourse.  Both  Dante  and  Milton  wrote  treatises  as  well  as 
poems,  and  did  not  confound  the  two.  Milton,  a  theological  in- 
dependent, wrote  a  dissertation  De  Doctrina  Christiana  at  about 
the  time  during  which  he  was  composing  Paradise  Lost.  How- 
ever one  defines  the  nature  of  his  poem  (epic,  Christian  epic,  or 
philosophical-and-epic  poem)  and  in  spite  of  its  announced  de- 
sign to  "justify  the  ways  of  God,"  it  had  a  different  purpose 
from  the  treatise:  its  nature  is  established  by  the  literary  tradi- 
tions it  invokes  and  by  its  relation  to  Milton's  own  earlier  poetry. 

Milton's  theology  in  Paradise  Lost  is  orthodox  Protestant 
or  susceptible  of  such  a  reading.  But  the  reader's  failure  to  share 
that  theology  doesn't  denude  the  poem.  As  long  ago  as  Blake, 
indeed,  it  was  suggested  that  Satan  is  the  hero  of  the  poem,  by 
Milton's  unconscious  "intention";  and  there  was,  with  Byron 
and  Shelley,  a  romantic  Paradise  Lost  which  coupled  Satan 
with  Prometheus  and  which  dwelt  sympathetically,  as  Collins 
had  earlier  begun  to  do,  upon  the  "primitivism"  of  Milton's 
Eden.18  There  is  certainly  also  a  "humanist"  reading,  as  Saurat 
has  shown.  The  sweep,  the  vistas  of  the  poem,  its  scenery — 
somber  or  vaguely  grand — are  not  disposed  of  by  dissent  to  its 
theology  or  fact. 

That  the  style  of  Paradise  Lost  leaves  it  a  great  poem  even 
though  its  doctrine  should  be  scrapped  is  highly  dubious.  Such  a 
view  reduces  to  the  absurd  the  separation  of  a  work  into  its 
"form"  and  its  "meaning":  "form"  here  becomes  "style,"  and 
"meaning"  becomes  "ideology."  The  separation,  indeed,  does 
not  take  care  of  the  total  work:  it  leaves  out  all  structures  "above" 
metrics  and  diction;  and  "meaning,"  according  to  its  account,  is 
what  L.  A.  Reid  calls  "secondary  subject-matter"  (subject  mat- 
ter still  outside  the  work  of  art).  It  leaves  out  the  plot  or  nar- 
rative, the  characters  (or,  more  properly,  the  "characteriza- 
tion"), and  the  "world,"  the  interlocking  of  plot,  atmosphere, 


Evaluation  257 

and  characters — the  "metaphysical  quality"  (viewed  as  the  world 
view  which  emerges  from  the  work,  not  the  view  didactically 
stated  by  the  author  within  or  without  the  work). 

Particularly  objectionable  is  the  view  that  the  "organ  har- 
monies" can  be  disengaged  from  the  poem.  In  a  restricted  sense 
they  can  be  viewed  as  having  "formal  beauty" — phonetic  reso- 
nance 5  but  in  literature,  including  poetry,  the  formal  beauty 
almost  always  exists  in  the  service  of  expression:  we  have  to  ask 
about  the  appropriateness  of  the  "organ  harmonies"  to  plot, 
character,  theme.  Milton's  style  applied  by  minor  poets  to  com- 
positions on  trivial  themes  became  unintentionally  ridiculous. 

A  formalist  criticism  must  suppose  that  agreement  between 
our  own  creed  and  that  of  an  author  or  poem  need  not  exist,  is 
indeed  irrelevant,  since  otherwise  we  should  admire  only  lit- 
erary works  whose  view  of  life  we  accept.  Does  the  Weltan- 
schauung matter  to  the  aesthetic  judgment?  The  view  of  life 
presented  in  a  poem,  says  Eliot,  must  be  one  which  the  critic 
can  "accept  as  coherent,  mature,  and  founded  on  the  facts  of 
experience."  19  Eliot's  dictum  about  coherence,  maturity,  and 
truth  to  experience  goes,  in  its  phrasing,  beyond  any  formalism: 
coherence,  to  be  sure,  is  an  aesthetic  criterion  as  well  as  a  logical} 
but  "maturity"  is  a  psychological  criterion,  and  "truth  to  expe- 
rience" an  appeal  to  worlds  outside  the  work  of  art,  a  call  for 
the  comparison  of  art  and  reality.  Let  us  reply  to  Eliot  that  the 
maturity  of  a  work  of  art  is  its  inclusiveness,  its  awareness  of 
complexity,  its  ironies  and  tensions  5  and  the  correspondence  be- 
tween a  novel  and  experience  can  never  be  measured  by  any 
simple  pairing  off  of  items:  what  we  can  legitimately  compare 
is  the  total  world  of  Dickens,  Kafka,  Balzac,  or  Tolstoy  with  our 
total  experience,  that  is,  our  own  thought  and  felt  "world."  And 
our  judgment  of  this  correspondence  registers  itself  in  aesthetic 
terms  of  vividness,  intensity,  patterned  contrast,  width,  or 
depth,  static  or  kinetic.  "Life-like"  might  almost  be  paraphrased 
as  "art-like,"  since  the  analogies  between  life  and  literature  be- 
come most  palpable  when  the  art  is  highly  stylized:  it  is  writers 
like  Dickens,  Kafka,  and  Proust  who  superimpose  their  signed 
world  on  areas  of  our  own  experience.20 

Before  the  nineteenth  century,  discussions  of  evaluation  were 
likely  to  center  upon  the  rank  and  hierarchy  of  authors — the 


258  Theory  of  Literature 

classics  who  "always  have  been  and  always  will  be  admired." 
The  chief  instances  cited  would  naturally  be  the  ancient  Greek 
and  Roman  authors,  whose  apotheosis  came  with  the  Renaissance. 
By  the  nineteenth  century,  a  wider  knowledge  of  such  literary 
sequences  as  the  medieval,  the  Celtic,  the  Norse,  the  Hindu, 
and  the  Chinese  had  made  such  earlier  "classicism"  obsolete.  We 
are  aware  of  works  which  disappear  from  view  and  then  re- 
appear, and  of  works  which  lose  for  a  time  their  aesthetic  effi- 
cacy but  regain  it,  e.g.,  Donne,  Langland,  and  Pope,  Maurice 
Sceve  and  Gryphius.  By  reaction  to  authoritarianism  and  its  ca- 
nonical list,  the  modern  view  is  inclined  to  excessive,  unnecessary 
relativism,  to  talk  of  the  "whirligig  of  taste,"  as  earlier  skeptics 
murmured,  de  gustibus  non  est  disfutandum. 

The  case  is  more  complicated  than  humanist  or  skeptic  would 
make  it  out. 

The  desire  to  affirm  in  some  form  the  objectivity  of  literary 
values  does  not  require  commitment  to  some  static  canon,  to 
which  no  new  names  are  added  and  within  which  no  shifts  of 
rank  may  occur.  Allen  Tate  rightly  challenges,  as  "illusion,"  the 
assumption  that  "the  reputation  of  any  writer  is  ever  fixed,"  to- 
gether with  the  correlative  "curious  belief"  that  "the  chief  func- 
tion of  criticism  is  the  ranking  of  authors  rather  than  their  use."  21 
Like  Eliot,  whose  dictum  about  the  past's  alteration  by  the 
present  he  is  remembering,  Tate  is  a  creative  writer  who  must 
believe  in  the  present  and  future  as  well  as  the  past  of  English 
poetry.  But  we  may  suppose  also  that  he  thinks  use  as  important 
an  objectivity  as  "fixed  rank."  And  the  "objectivity"  of  value 
lies  in  the  criteria,  not  in  the  art  objects.  Rank  in  a  class  is  always, 
so  to  speak,  competitive  and  relative.  So  long  as  new  entries 
continue  to  be  made,  there  is  always  the  chance  of  a  new  best; 
but  any  entry  made  will  alter,  however  slightly,  the  rank  of  the 
other  works.  Waller  and  Denham  at  once  acquired  and  lost  rank 
when  Pope  had  made  his  position — they  were  that  ambivalent 
thing,  forerunners;  they  led  up  to  Pope,  but  they  were  also 
scaled  down  by  him. 

There  is  an  opposite  desire  on  the  part  of  anti-academics 
within  and  without  the  universities  to  affirm  the  tyranny  of  flux, 
the  "whirligig  of  taste."  22  Cases  there  are — like  that  of  Cowley 
— of  generational  tastes  never  ratified  by  a  subsequent  genera- 


Evaluation  259 

tion.  They  seem  not,  however,  to  be  many.  Thirty  years  ago, 
Skelton  might  seem  a  parallel  case,  but  not  now;  we  find  him 
brilliant,  "sincere,"  modern.  Meanwhile,  the  largest  reputations 
survive  generational  tastes :  Chaucer,  Spenser,  Shakespeare,  Mil- 
ton— even  Dryden  and  Pope  and  Wordsworth  and  Tennyson — 
have  a  permanent,  though  not  a  "fixed"  position. 

The  aesthetic  structures  of  such  poets  seem  so  complex  and 
rich  that  they  can  satisfy  the  sensibility  of  successive  ages :  there 
is  the  Neo-Classical  Milton  admired  by  Addison  in  his  Spectator 
essays  and  by  Pope,  and  the  Romantic  Milton  or  Miltons  of 
Byron,  Wordsworth,  Keats,  Shelley.  There  was  the  Shakespeare 
of  Coleridge,  and  now  we  have  the  Shakespeare  of  Wilson 
Knight.  Each  generation  leaves  elements  in  the  great  work  of 
art  unappropriated,  finds  levels  or  strata  lacking  in  "beauty"  or 
even  positively  ugly  (as  the  Neo-Classicists  did  Shakespeare's 
puns),  yet  finds  the  whole  aesthetically  satisfying. 

We  seem  thus  far  arrived  at  a  kind  of  generationism  which 
denies  the  relativity  of  taste  viewed  as  the  individual's  but  finds 
alternations  in  literary  history  of  more  or  less  contrary  sets  of 
aesthetic  criteria  (as  in  Wolfflin's  contrast  of  Renaissance  and 
Baroque)  and  suggests  no  getting  behind  or  beyond  these  alter- 
nations to  common  principles;  we  seem  also  arrived  at  "multiva- 
lence,"  23  the  view  that  enduring  works  of  art  appeal  to  different 
admiring  generations  for  different  reasons  or,  to  push  the  two 
conclusions  together,  that  major  works,  the  "classics,"  keep  their 
place  but  keep  it  by  a  series  of  changing  appeals  or  "causes," 
while  original,  highly  special  works  (e.g.,  Donne)  and  minor 
works  (good  in  the  style  of  the  period,  e.g.,  Prior  or  Churchill) 
gain  in  reputation  when  the  literature  of  the  day  bears  some 
kind  of  sympathetic  relation  to  that  of  their  day,  lose  when  that 
relation  is  adverse.24 

We  move  with  difficulty,  perhaps,  beyond  this  position,  but 
move  beyond  it  we  can.  For  one  thing,  we  need  not  limit  the 
appreciation  earlier  ages  had  for  their  classics  (Homer,  Virgil, 
Milton,  et  al.)  by  the  arguments  their  critics  mustered  up.  We 
can  deny  that  earlier  criticism  was  able  to  do  justice  to  the  crea- 
tive work  of  its  own  day  or  indeed  to  its  own  aesthetic  experi- 
ence.25 We  can  also  affirm  that  a  really  adequate  literary  theory 
can  avoid  the  either-or  of  generationalism :  thus  George  Wil- 


260  Theory  of  Literature 

liamson  26  thinks  the  best  of  the  metaphysical  poems  are  just 
good  poetry ;  there  is  no  need  to  admire  all  metaphysical  poems 
or  to  condemn  all,  nor  are  the  best  poems  of  the  school  the 
"most  metaphysical."  Thus  Pope  has  been  praised  in  our  time 
as — in  part,  at  least — a  "metaphysical"  poet,  that  is,  a  good  and 
real  poet,  not  just  the  "poet  of  an  age  of  prose."  2T  And  clearly 
theorists  as  different  as  the  Richards  of  Practical  Criticism,  and 
Brooks  and  Warren  {Understanding  Poetry)  think  of  a  single 
standard  for  poetry  and  exactly  stress  that  one  should  not  try 
to  "place"  the  poem  as  to  author,  period,  or  school  before  judg- 
ing it.  It  may  of  course  be  said  that  these  anthologist-critics  ap- 
peal to  a  standard  (roughly,  the  Eliotic),  to  which  many  readers 
would  not  assent.  But  their  standards  enable  them  to  justify  a 
wide  range  of  poetry:  least  fair  to  the  Romantics,  they  save  at 
least  Blake  and  Keats. 

No  literary  critic  can,  we  think,  really  either  reduce  himself  to 
generationism  (which  denies  that  there  is  an  aesthetic  norm)  or 
attach  himself  to  so  barren  and  pedagogic  an  absolutism  as  that 
of  the  "fixed  rank."  He  may  sound  at  times  like  a  generationist 
merely  by  protest  or  by  desire  to  enter  and  understand  the  past 
author  through  the  wholly  appropriate  means  of  his  analogy  to 
some  author  of  the  present.  Yet  he  means  to  affirm  that  the  value 
so  discovered  is  really,  or  potentially,  present  in  the  art  object — 
not  "read  into"  it  or  associatively  attached  to  it,  but  with  the 
advantage  of  a  special  incentive  to  insight,  seen  in  it. 

This  brings  us  to  the  question  concerning  the  locus  of  aesthetic 
values.  Is  it  the  poem,  or  the  reader  of  the  poem,  or  the  relation 
between  the  two?  The  second  answer  is  subjectivist:  it  correctly 
asserts  that  someone  has  to  value  the  valued,  but  does  not  corre- 
late the  nature  of  the  response  with  the  nature  of  the  object.  It 
is  psychologistic,  in  the  sense  that  it  turns  the  attention  away 
from  what  is  contemplated  or  enjoyed  to  fix  it  upon  the  reac- 
tions, emotional  vibrations,  of  the  self,  even  the  private,  gener- 
alized self.  Whether  one  gives  the  first  or  the  third  answer 
seems  a  matter  of  interpretation.  The  first  answer,  to  profes- 
sional philosophers,  unavoidably  suggests  Platonism  or  some 
other  system  of  absolute  standards  thought  of  as  existing  with- 
out reference  to  human  need  or  cognition.  Even  if  one  means, 
as  literary  theorists  are  likely  to,  to  assert  the  objective  character 


Evaluation  261 

of  the  literary  structure,  from  devices  to  "meaning,"  the  first 
answer  has  the  further  difficulty  of  suggesting  that  the  literary 
values  are  there  for  anyoney  as  present  as  redness  or  cold.  No 
critic,  however,  has  really  meant  to  claim  that  kind  of  unquali- 
fied objectivity  for  a  poem:  Longinus  and  other  "classicists"  who 
appeal  to  the  suffrage  of  all  men  of  all  times  and  lands  make 
silent  restriction  of  their  "all"  to  "all  competent  judges." 

What  the  formalist  wants  to  maintain  is  that  the  poem  is  not 
only  a  cause,  or  a  potential  cause,  of  the  reader's  "poetic  expe- 
rience" but  a  specific,  highly  organized  control  of  the  reader's 
experience,  so  that  the  experience  is  most  fittingly  described  as 
an  experience  of  the  poem.  The  valuing  of  the  poem  is  the  ex- 
periencing, the  realization,  of  aesthetically  valuable  qualities  and 
relationships  structurally  present  in  the  poem  for  any  competent 
reader.  Beauty,  says  Eliseo  Vivas,  expounding  what  he  calls 
"objective  relativism"  or  "perspective  realism,"  is  "a  character 
of  some  things,  and  in  them  present;  but  present  only  in  the 
thing  for  those  endowed  with  the  capacity  and  the  training 
through  which  alone  it  can  be  perceived."  28  The  values  exist 
potentially  in  the  literary  structures:  they  are  realized,  actually 
valued,  only  as  they  are  contemplated  by  readers  who  meet  the 
requisite  conditions.  There  is  undoubtedly  a  tendency  to  disallow 
(in  the  name  of  democracy  or  science)  any  claim  to  objectivity 
or  "value"  which  is  not  publicly  verifiable  in  the  most  complete 
sense.  But  it  is  difficult  to  think  of  any  "values"  which  offer 
themselves  thus  unconditionally. 

Older  manuals  often  contrast  "judicial"  criticism  with  other 
types — "impressionist,"  for  example.  This  distinction  was  mis- 
leadingly  named.  The  former  type  appealed  to  rules  or  princi- 
ples assumed  as  objective  5  the  latter  often  flaunted  its  lack  of 
public  reference.  But  in  practice  the  latter  was  an  unavowed 
form  of  judgment  by  an  expert,  whose  taste  is  to  offer  a  norm 
for  less  subtle  sensibilities.  Nor  can  there  have  been  many  critics 
of  the  latter  sort  who  did  not  attempt  what  Remy  de  Gourmont 
defines  as  the  great  effort  of  any  sincere  man — to  "erect  into 
laws  his  personal  impressions."  29  Today,  many  essays  called 
"criticism"  are  exegetical  of  specific  poems  or  authors  and  offer 
no  concluding  estimate,  rating,  or  ranking.  Objection  is  some- 
times raised  to  allowing  such  exegeses  the  name  of  "criticism" 


262  Theory  of  Literature 

(which  in  its  Greek  origins  meant  "judgment").  And  sometimes 
the  distinction  is  made  between  the  "elucidatory"  and  the  "judi- 
cial" as  alternative  types  of  criticism.30  But  though  separation  be- 
tween the  exegesis  of  meaning  (Deutung)  and  the  judgment  of 
value  (Wertung)  can  certainly  be  made,  it  is  rarely,  in  "literary 
criticism,"  either  practiced  or  practicable.  What  is  crudely  asked 
for  or  offered  as  "judicial  criticism"  is  a  blunt  grading  of  authors 
and  poems,  accompanied  by  the  citation  of  authorities  or  appeal 
to  a  few  dogmas  of  literary  theory.  To  go  beyond  that,  of  neces- 
sity involves  analyses  and  analytical  comparisons.  On  the  other 
hand,  an  essay  which  appears  to  be  purely  exegetical  must,  by 
its  very  existence,  offer  some  minimal  judgment  of  worth  5  and, 
if  it  is  exegetical  of  a  poem,  a  judgment  of  aesthetic  worth,  not 
historical,  biographical,  or  philosophical.  To  spend  time  and  at- 
tention on  a  poet  or  poem  is  already  a  judgment  of  value.  But 
few  exegetical  essays  make  judgment  merely  by  the  act  of  choos- 
ing a  topic.  "Understanding  poetry"  passes  readily  into  "judging 
poetry,"  only  judging  it  in  detail  and  judging  while  analyzing, 
instead  of  making  the  judgment  a  pronouncement  in  the  final 
paragraph.  The  one-time  novelty  of  Eliot's  essays  was  precisely 
their  delivering  themselves  of  no  final  summary  or  single  judg- 
ment but  judging  all  the  way  through  an  essay:  by  specific  com- 
parisons, juxtapositions  of  two  poets  with  respect  to  some  quality, 
as  well  as  by  occasional  tentative  generalization. 

The  distinction  one  needs  to  make,  it  would  seem,  is  between 
overt  and  implicit  judgment — not  the  same  as  the  distinction 
between  judgments  conscious  and  unconscious.  There  is  a  judg- 
ment of  sensibility  and  a  reasoned,  a  ratiocinative,  judgment. 
They  exist  in  no  necessary  contradiction :  a  sensibility  can  scarcely 
attain  much  critical  force  without  being  susceptible  of  consider- 
able generalized,  theoretical  statement;  and  a  reasoned  judg- 
ment, in  matters  of  literature,  cannot  be  formulated  save  on  the 
basis  of  some  sensibility,  immediate  or  derivative. 


CHAPTER  XIX 

Literary  History 

Is  it  possible  to  write  literary  history,  that  is,  to  write  that 
which  will  be  both  literary  and  a  history?  Most  histories  of  lit- 
erature, it  must  be  admitted,  are  either  social  histories,  or  his- 
tories of  thought  as  illustrated  in  literature,  or  impressions  and 
judgments  on  specific  works  arranged  in  more  or  less  chrono- 
logical order.  A  glance  at  the  history  of  English  literary  his- 
toriography will  corroborate  this  view.  Thomas  Warton,  the 
first  "formal"  historian  of  English  poetry,  gave  as  his  reason  for 
studying  ancient  literature  that  it  "faithfully  records  the  fea- 
tures of  the  times  and  preserves  the  most  picturesque  and  expres- 
sive representations  of  manners"  and  "transmits  to  posterity 
genuine  delineations  of  life."  x  Henry  Morley  conceived  of  lit- 
erature as  "the  national  biography"  or  the  "story  of  the  English 
mind."  2  Leslie  Stephen  regarded  literature  as  "a  particular 
function  of  the  whole  social  organism,"  "a  kind  of  by-product" 
of  social  change.3  W.  J.  Courthope,  author  of  the  only  history 
of  English  poetry  based  on  a  unified  conception  of  its  develop- 
ment, defined  the  "study  of  English  poetry  as  in  effect  the  study 
of  the  continuous  growth  of  our  national  institutions  as  reflected 
in  our  literature,"  and  looked  for  the  unity  of  the  subject  "pre- 
cisely where  the  political  historian  looks  for  it,  namely,  in  the 
life  of  a  nation  as  a  whole."  4 

While  these  and  many  other  historians  treat  literature  as 
mere  document  for  the  illustration  of  national  or  social  history, 
those  constituting  another  group  recognize  that  literature  is  first 
and  foremost  an  art,  but  appear  unable  to  write  history.  They 
present  us  with  a  discontinuous  series  of  essays  on  individual 
authors,  attempting  to  link  them  by  "influences"  but  lacking  any 
conception  of  real  historical  evolution.  In  his  introduction  to  A 
Short  History  of  Modem  English  Literature  (1897),  Edmund 

Gosse  professed,  to  be  sure,  to  show  the  "movement  of  English 

263 


264  Theory  of  Literature 

literature,"  to  give  a  "feeling  of  the  evolution  of  English  litera- 
ture," 5  but  he  was  merely  paying  lip-service  to  an  ideal  then 
spreading  from  France.  In  practice,  his  books  are  a  series  of 
critical  remarks  on  authors  and  some  of  their  works,  chronologi- 
cally arranged.  Gosse  later,  quite  rightly,  disclaimed  any  in- 
terest in  Taine  and  stressed  his  indebtedness  to  Sainte-Beuve,  the 
master  of  biographical  portraiture.6  Mutatis  mutandis,  the  same 
is  true  of  George  Saintsbury,  whose  conception  of  criticism  was 
nearest  to  Pater's  theory  and  practice  of  "appreciation,"  7  and  of 
Oliver  Elton,  whose  Survey  of  English  Literature,  in  six  vol- 
umes— the  most  remarkable  achievement  of  recent  literary  his- 
tory in  England — frankly  professes  to  be  "really  a  review,  a  di- 
rect criticism,"  and  not  a  history.8  This  list  could  be  extended 
almost  indefinitely  3  and  an  examination  of  French  and  German 
histories  of  literature  would  lead,  with  some  exceptions,  to  almost 
identical  conclusions.  Thus  Taine  was  obviously  interested  mainly 
in  his  theories  of  national  character  and  his  philosophy  of 
"milieu"  and  race,  Jusserand  studied  the  history  of  manners  as 
illustrated  in  English  literature,  and  Cazamian  invented  a  whole 
theory  of  "the  oscillation  of  the  moral  rhythm  of  the  English 
national  soul."  9  Most  leading  histories  of  literature  are  either 
histories  of  civilization  or  collections  of  critical  essays.  One  type 
is  not  a  history  of  art;  the  other,  not  a  history  of  art. 

Why  has  there  been  no  attempt,  on  a  large  scale,  to  trace  the 
evolution  of  literature  as  art?  One  deterrent  is  the  fact  that  the 
preparatory  analysis  of  works  of  art  has  not  been  carried  out  in 
a  consistent  and  systematic  manner.  Literary  theory  has  not  yet 
developed  methods  enabling  us  to  describe  a  work  of  art  purely 
as  a  system  of  signs.  Either  we  remain  content  with  the  old 
rhetorical  criteria,  unsatisfactory  in  their  preoccupation  with  ap- 
parently superficial  devices,  or  we  have  recourse  to  an  emotive 
language  describing  the  effects  of  a  work  of  art  upon  the  reader 
in  terms  incapable  of  real  correlation  with  the  work  itself. 

Another  difficulty  is  the  prejudice  that  no  history  of  literature 
is  possible  save  in  terms  of  causal  explanation  by  some  other 
human  activity.  A  third  difficulty  lies  in  the  whole  conception  of 
the  development  of  the  art  of  literature.  Few  would  doubt  the 
possibility  of  an  internal  history  of  painting  or  music.Tt  suffices 
to  walk  through  any  set  of  art  galleries  arranged  according  to 


Literary  History  265 

chronological  order  or  in  accordance  with  "schools"  to  see  that 
there  is  a  history  of  the  art  of  painting  quite  distinct  from  either 
the  history  of  painters  or  the  appreciation  or  judgment  of  indi- 
vidual pictures.  It  suffices  to  listen  to  a  concert  in  which  compo- 
sitions are  chronologically  arranged  to  see  that  there  is  a  history 
of  music  which  has  scarcely  anything  to  do  with  the  biographies 
of  the  composers,  the  social  conditions  under  which  the  works 
were  produced,  or  the  appreciation  of  individual  pieces.  Such 
histories  have  been  attempted  in  painting  and  sculpture  ever 
since  Winckelmann  wrote  his  Geschichte  der  Kunst  im  Alter  turn, 
and  most  histories  of  music  since  Burney  have  paid  attention  to 
the  history  of  musical  forms. 

Literary  history  has  before  it  the  analogous  problem  of  trac- 
ing the  history  of  literature  as  an  art,  in  comparative  isolation 
from  its  social  history,  the  biographies  of  authors,  or  the  appre- 
ciation of  individual  works.  Of  course,  the  task  of  literary  his- 
tory (in  this  limited  sense)  presents  its  special  obstacles.  Com- 
pared to  a  painting,  which  can  be  seen  at  a  glance,  a  literary  work 
of  art  is  accessible  only  through  a  time  sequence  and  is  thus  more 
difficult  to  realize  as  a  coherent  whole.  But  the  analogy  of  mu- 
sical form  shows  that  a  pattern  is  possible,  even  when  it  can  be 
grasped  only  in  a  temporal  sequence.  There  are,  further,  special 
problems.  In  literature,  there  is  a  gradual  transition  from  simple 
statements  to  highly  organized  works  of  art,  since  the  medium 
of  literature,  language,  is  also  the  medium  of  everyday  com- 
munication and  especially  the  medium  of  sciences.  It  is  thus  more 
difficult  to  isolate  the  aesthetic  structure  of  a  literary  work.  Yet 
an  illustrative  plate  in  a  medical  textbook  and  a  military  march 
are  two  examples  to  show  that  the  other  arts  have  also  their 
borderline  cases  and  that  the  difficulties  in  distinguishing  be- 
tween art  and  non-art  in  linguistic  utterance  are  only  greater 
quantitatively. 

Theorists  there  are,  however,  who  simply  deny  that  literature 
has  a  history.  W.  P.  Ker  argued,  for  instance,  that  we  do  not 
need  literary  history,  as  its  objects  are  always  present,  are 
"eternal,"  and  thus  have  no  proper  history  at  all.10  T.  S.  Eliot 
also  would  deny  the  "pastness"  of  a  work  of  art.  "The  whole  of 
the  literature  of  Europe  from  Homer,"  he  says,  "has  a  simul- 
taneous existence  and  composes  a  simultaneous  order."  1X  Art, 


266  Theory  of  Literature 

one  could  argue  with  Schopenhauer,  has  always  reached  its  goal. 
It  never  improves,  and  cannot  be  superseded  or  repeated.  In  art 
we  need  not  find  out  "wie  es  eigentlich  gewesen" — as  Ranke  put 
the  aim  of  historiography — because  we  can  experience  quite  di- 
rectly how  things  are.  So  literary  history  is  no  proper  history 
because  it  is  the  knowledge  of  the  present,  the  omnipresent,  the 
eternally  present.  One  cannot  deny,  of  course,  that  there  is  some 
real  difference  between  political  history  and  the  history  of  art. 
There  is  a  distinction  between  that  which  is  historical  and  past 
and  that  which  is  historical  and  still  somehow  present. 

As  we  have  shown  before,  an  individual  work  of  art  does  not 
remain  unchanged  through  the  course  of  history.  There  is,  to  be 
sure,  a  substantial  identity  of  structure  which  has  remained  the 
same  throughout  the  ages.  But  this  structure  is  dynamic;  it 
changes  throughout  the  process  of  history  while  passing  through 
the  minds  of  readers,  critics,  and  fellow-artists.  The  process  of 
interpretation,  criticism,  and  appreciation  has  never  been  com- 
pletely interrupted  and  is  likely  to  continue  indefinitely,  or  at 
least  so  long  as  there  is  no  complete  interruption  of  the  cultural 
tradition.  One  of  the  tasks  of  the  literary  historian  is  the  descrip- 
tion of  this  process.  Another  is  the  tracing  of  the  development 
of  works  of  art  arranged  in  smaller  and  larger  groups,  according 
to  common  authorship,  or  genres,  or  stylistic  types,  or  linguistic 
tradition,  and  finally  inside  a  scheme  of  universal  literature. 

But  the  concept  of  the  development  of  a  series  of  works  of  art 
seems  an  extraordinarily  difficult  one.  In  a  sense  each  work  of 
art  is,  at  first  sight,  a  structure  discontinuous  with  neighboring 
works  of  art.  One  can  argue  that  there  is  no  development  from 
one  individuality  to  another.  One  meets  even  with  the  objection 
that  there  is  no  history  of  literature,  only  one  of  men  writing.12 
Yet  according  to  the  same  argument  we  should  have  to  give  up 
writing  a  history  of  language  because  there  are  only  men  utter- 
ing words  or  a  history  of  philosophy  because  there  are  only  men 
thinking.  Extreme  "personalism"  of  this  sort  must  lead  to  the 
view  that  every  individual  work  of  art  is  completely  isolated, 
which,  in  practice,  would  mean  that  it  would  be  both  incommu- 
nicable and  incomprehensible.  We  must  conceive  rather  of  lit- 
erature as  a  whole  system  of  works  which  is,  with  the  accretion 


Literary  History  267 

of  new  ones,  constantly  changing  its  relationships,  growing  as  a 
changing  whole. 

But  the  mere  fact  that  the  literary  situation  of  a  time  has 
changed  compared  to  the  situation  of  a  decade  or  a  century  be- 
fore is  still  insufficient  to  establish  a  process  of  actual  historical 
evolution,  since  the  concept  of  change  applies  to  any  series  of 
natural  phenomena.  It  may  mean  merely  ever  new  but  meaning- 
less and  incomprehensible  rearrangements.  Thus  the  study  of 
change  recommended  by  F.  J.  Teggart  in  his  Theory  of  His- 
tory 13  would  lead  merely  to  the  abolishment  of  all  differences 
between  historical  and  natural  processes,  leaving  the  historian  to 
subsist  on  borrowings  from  natural  science.  If  these  changes  re- 
curred with  absolute  regularity  we  should  arrive  at  the  concept 
of  law  as  the  physicist  conceives  it.  Yet,  despite  the  brilliant 
speculations  of  Spengler  and  Toynbee,  such  predictable  changes 
have  never  been  discovered  in  any  historical  process. 

Development  means  something  else  and  something  more  than 
change  or  even  regular  and  predictable  change.  It  seems  obvious 
that  it  should  be  used  in  the  sense  elaborated  by  biology.  In 
biology,  if  we  look  closer,  there  are  two  very  different  concepts 
of  evolution:  first,  the  process  exemplified  by  the  growth  of  an 
egg  to  a  bird,  and  second,  the  evolution  exemplified  by  the 
change  from  the  brain  of  a  fish  to  that  of  a  man.  Here  no  series 
of  brains  ever  develops  actually,  but  only  some  conceptual  ab- 
straction, "the  brain,"  definable  in  terms  of  its  function.  The 
individual  stages  of  development  are  conceived  as  so  many  ap- 
proximations to  an  ideal  drawn  from  "human  brain." 

Can  we  speak  of  literary  evolution  in  either  of  these  two 
senses?  Ferdinand  Brunetiere  and  John  Addington  Symonds  as- 
sumed that  we  can  speak  in  both.  They  supposed  that  one  could 
consider  literary  genres  on  the  analogy  of  species  in  nature.14 
Literary  genres,  once  they  reach  a  certain  degree  of  perfection, 
must  wither,  languish,  and  finally  disappear,  taught  Brunetiere. 
Furthermore,  genres  become  transformed  into  higher  and  more 
differentiated  genres,  just  as  do  species  in  the  Darwinian  concep- 
tion of  evolution.  The  use  of  "evolution"  in  the  first  sense  of 
the  term  is  obviously  little  more  than  a  fanciful  metaphor.  Ac- 
cording to  Brunetiere,  French  tragedy,  for  example,  was  born, 
grew,  declined,  and  died.  But  the  tertium  comfarationis  for  the 


268  Theory  of  Literature 

birth  of  tragedy  is  merely  the  fact  that  there  were  no  tragedies 
written  in  French  before  Jodelle.  Tragedy  died  only  in  the  sense 
that  no  important  tragedies  conforming  to  Brunetiere's  ideal 
were  written  after  Voltaire.  But  there  is  always  the  possibility 
that  a  future  great  tragedy  will  be  written  in  French.  According 
to  Brunetiere,  Racine's  Phedre  stands  at  the  beginning  of  the 
decline  of  tragedy,  somewhere  near  to  its  old  age ;  but  it  strikes 
us  as  young  and  fresh  compared  to  the  learned  Renaissance 
tragedies,  which,  according  to  this  theory,  represent  the  "youth" 
of  French  tragedy.  Even  less  defensible  is  the  idea  that  genres 
become  transformed  into  other  genres,  as,  according  to  Brune- 
tiere, French  pulpit  oratory  of  the  classical  centuries  was  trans- 
formed into  the  Romantic  lyric.  Yet  no  real  "transmutation" 
had  taken  place.  One  could  at  most  say  that  the  same  or  similar 
emotions  were  expressed  earlier  in  oratory  and  later  in  lyrical 
poetry,  or  that  possibly  the  same  or  similar  social  purposes  were 
served  by  both. 

While  we  thus  must  reject  the  biological  analogy  between  the 
development  of  literature  and  the  closed  evolutionary  process 
from  birth  to  death — an  idea  by  no  means  extinct  and  recently 
revived  by  Spengler  and  Toynbee — ,  "evolution"  in  this  second 
sense  seems  much  nearer  to  the  real  concept  of  historical  evolu- 
tion. It  recognizes  that  no  mere  series  of  changes  but,  instead, 
an  aim  for  this  series  must  be  postulated.  The  several  parts  of 
the  series  must  be  the  necessary  condition  for  the  achievement 
of  the  end.  The  concept  of  evolution  toward  a  specific  goal  (e.g., 
the  human  brain)  makes  a  series  of  changes  into  a  real  concate- 
nation with  a  beginning  and  an  end.  Still,  there  is  an  impor- 
tant distinction  between  this  second  sense  of  biological  evolution 
and  "historical  evolution"  in  the  proper  sense.  To  grasp  his- 
torical evolution  in  distinction  from  biological,  we  must  some- 
how succeed  in  preserving  the  individuality  of  the  historical 
event  without  reducing  the  historical  process  to  a  collection  of 
sequent  but  unrelated  events. 

The  solution  lies  in  relating  the  historical  process  to  a  value 
or  norm.  Only  then  can  the  apparently  meaningless  series  of 
events  be  split  into  its  essential  and  its  unessential  elements.  Only 
then  can  we  speak  of  an  historical  evolution  which  yet  leaves  the 
individuality  of  the  single  event  unimpaired.  By  relating  an  in- 


Literary  History  269 

dividual  reality  to  a  general  value,  we  do  not  degrade  the  indi- 
vidual to  a  mere  specimen  of  a  general  concept  but,  instead,  give 
significance  to  the  individual.  History  does  not  simply  individu- 
alize general  values  (nor  is  it,  of  course,  a  discontinuous  mean- 
ingless flux),  but  the  historical  process  will  produce  ever  new 
forms  of  value,  hitherto  unknown  and  unpredictable.  The  rela- 
tivity of  the  individual  work  of  art  to  a  scale  of  values  is  thus 
nothing  else  than  the  necessary  correlative  of  its  individuality. 
The  series  of  developments  will  be  constructed  in  reference  to 
a  scheme  of  values  or  norms,  but  these  values  themselves  emerge 
only  from  the  contemplation  of  this  process.  There  is,  one  must 
admit,  a  logical  circle  here:  the  historical  process  has  to  be  judged 
by  values,  while  the  scale  of  values  is  itself  derived  from  his- 
tory.15 But  this  seems  unavoidable,  for  otherwise  we  must  either 
resign  ourselves  to  the  idea  of  a  meaningless  flux  of  change  or 
apply  some  extra-literary  standards — some  Absolute,  extraneous 
to  the  process  of  literature. 

This  discussion  of  the  problem  of  literary  evolution  has  been 
necessarily  abstract.  It  has  attempted  to  establish  that  the  evolu- 
tion of  literature  is  different  from  that  of  biology,  and  that  it 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  idea  of  a  uniform  progress  toward 
one  eternal  model.  History  can  be  written  only  in  reference  to 
variable  schemes  of  values,  and  these  schemes  have  to  be  ab- 
stracted from  history  itself.  This  idea  may  be  illustrated  by  ref- 
erence to  some  of  the  problems  with  which  literary  history  is 
confronted. 

The  most  obvious  relationships  between  works  of  art — sources 
and  influences — have  been  treated  most  frequently  and  consti- 
tute a  staple  of  traditional  scholarship.  Although  not  literary 
history  in  the  narrow  sense,  the  establishment  of  literary  rela- 
tionships between  authors  is  obviously  a  most  important  prepa- 
ration for  the  writing  of  such  literary  history.  If,  for  instance, 
we  should  want  to  write  the  History  of  English  Poetry  in  the 
eighteenth  century,  it  would  be  necessary  to  know  the  exact  re- 
lationships of  the  eighteenth-century  poets  to  Spenser,  Milton 
and  Dryden.  A  book  like  Raymond  Havens'  Milton's  Influence 
on  English  Poetry?6  a  centrally  literary  study,  accumulates  im- 
pressive evidence  for  the  influence  of  Milton,  not  only  assem- 
bling the  opinions  of  Milton  held  by  eighteenth-century  poets 


270  Theory  of  Literature 

but  studying  the  texts  and  analyzing  similarities  and  parallels. 
Parallel-hunting  has  been  widely  discredited  recently:  especially 
when  attempted  by  an  inexperienced  student,  it  runs  into  obvi- 
ous dangers.  First  of  all,  parallels  must  be  real  parallels,  not 
vague  similarities  assumed  to  turn,  by  mere  multiplication,  into 
proof.  Forty  zeroes  still  make  zero.  Furthermore,  parallels  must 
be  exclusive  parallels ;  that  is,  there  must  be  reasonable  certainty 
that  they  cannot  be  explained  by  a  common  source,  a  certainty 
attainable  only  if  the  investigator  has  a  wide  knowledge  of  lit- 
erature or  if  the  parallel  is  a  highly  intricate  pattern  rather  than 
an  isolated  "motif"  or  word.  Work  violating  these  elementary 
requirements  is  not  only  shockingly  large  in  amount  but  is  some- 
times produced  by  distinguished  scholars  who  should  be  able  to 
recognize  the  commonplaces  of  a  period — cliches,  stereotyped 
metaphors,  similarities  induced  by  a  common  theme.17 

Whatever  the  abuses  of  the  method,  however,  it  is  a  legiti- 
mate method  and  cannot  be  rejected  in  toto.  By  a  judicious  study 
of  sources  it  is  possible  to  establish  literary  relationships.  Among 
those,  quotations,  plagiarisms,  mere  echoes  are  the  least  interest- 
ing: they  establish,  at  the  most,  the  mere  fact  of  the  relation- 
ship, though  there  are  authors  like  Sterne  and  Burton  who  know 
how  to  use  quotations  for  their  own  artistic  purposes.  But  most 
questions  of  literary  relationships  are,  obviously,  far  more  com- 
plex and  require  for  their  solution  critical  analysis,  for  which 
the  bringing  together  of  parallels  is  merely  a  minor  instrument. 
The  defects  of  many  studies  of  this  kind  lie  precisely  in  their 
ignoring  this  truth:  in  their  attempts  to  isolate  one  single  trait, 
they  break  the  work  of  art  into  little  pieces  of  mosaic.  The  rela- 
tionships between  two  or  more  works  of  literature  can  be  dis- 
cussed profitably  only  when  we  see  them  in  their  proper  place 
within  the  scheme  of  literary  development.  Relationships  be- 
tween works  of  art  present  a  critical  problem  of  comparing  two 
wholes,  two  configurations  not  to  be  broken  into  isolated  com- 
ponents except  for  preliminary  study. 

When  the  comparison  is  really  focused  on  two  totalities,  we 
shall  be  able  to  come  to  conclusions  on  a  fundamental  problem 
of  literary  history,  that  of  originality.  Originality  is  usually  mis- 
conceived in  our  time  as  meaning  a  mere  violation  of  tradition, 
or  it  is  sought  for  at  the  wrong  place,  in  the  mere  material  of 


Literary  History  271 

the  work  of  art,  or  in  its  mere  scaffolding — the  traditional  plot, 
the  conventional  framework.  In  earlier  periods,  there  was  a 
sounder  understanding  of  the  nature  of  literary  creation,  a  rec- 
ognition that  the  artistic  value  of  a  merely  original  plot  or  sub- 
ject matter  was  small.  The  Renaissance  and  Neo-Classicism 
rightly  ascribed  great  importance  to  translating,  especially  the 
translating  of  poetry,  and  to  "imitation"  in  the  sense  in  which 
Pope  imitated  Horace's  satires  or  Dr.  Johnson,  Juvenal's.18  Mis- 
conceptions of  the  artistic  process  underlie  much  work  of  this 
kind,  e.g.,  the  many  studies  of  Sir  Sidney  Lee  on  Elizabethan 
sonnets,  which  prove  the  thorough  conventionality  of  the  form 
but  do  not  thereby  prove,  as  Sidney  Lee  supposed,  the  insin- 
cerity and  badness  of  the  sonnets.19  To  work  within  a  given  tra- 
dition and  adopt  its  devices  are  perfectly  compatible  with  emo- 
tional power  and  artistic  value.  The  real  critical  problems  in  this 
kind  of  study  arise  when  we  reach  the  stage  of  weighing  and 
comparing,  of  showing  how  one  artist  utilizes  the  achievements 
of  another  artist,  when  we  watch  the  transforming  power.  The 
establishment  of  the  exact  position  of  each  work  in  a  tradition  is 
the  first  task  of  literary  history. 

The  study  of  the  relationships  between  two  or  more  works  of 
art  leads  then  to  further  problems  in  the  evolution  of  literary 
history.  The  first  and  most  obvious  series  of  works  of  art  is  that 
of  the  works  written  by  one  author.  Here  a  scheme  of  values, 
an  aim,  is  least  difficult  to  establish:  we  can  judge  one  work  or 
a  group  of  works  to  be  his  maturest,  and  can  analyze  all  the 
other  works  from  the  point  of  view  of  their  approximation  to 
this  type.  Such  a  study  has  been  attempted  in  many  monographs, 
though  rarely  with  a  clear  consciousness  of  the  problems  in- 
volved, and  frequently  in  inextricable  confusion  with  problems 
of  the  author's  private  life. 

Another  type  of  evolutionary  series  can  be  constructed  by  iso- 
lating a  certain  trait  in  works  of  art  and  tracing  its  progress  to- 
ward some  ideal  (even  though  temporarily  ideal)  type.  This  can 
be  done  in  the  writings  of  a  single  author  if  we  study,  for  in- 
stance, as  Clemen 20  did,  the  evolution  of  Shakespeare's  imagery, 
or  it  can  be  done  in  a  period  or  in  the  whole  of  a  nation's  litera- 
ture. Books  like  those  of  George  Saintsbury  on  the  history  of 
English  prosody  and  prose  rhythm 21  isolate  such  an  element  and 


272  Theory  of  Literature 

trace  its  history,  though  Saintsbury's  own  ambitious  books  are 
vitiated  by  the  unclear  and  obsolete  conceptions  of  meter  and 
rhythm  on  which  they  are  based,  demonstrating  thereby  that  no 
proper  history  can  be  written  without  an  adequate  scheme  of 
reference.  The  same  type  of  problems  will  arise  in  a  history  of 
English  poetic  diction,  for  which  we  have  only  little  sketches, 
or  in  a  history  of  English  poetic  imagery,  which  has  not  been 
even  attempted. 

With  this  type  of  study  one  might  be  expected  to  class  the 
many  historical  studies  of  themes  and  motifs  such  as  Hamlet  or 
Don  Juan  or  the  Wandering  Jew  5  but  actually  these  are  dif- 
ferent problems.  Various  versions  of  a  story  have  no  such  neces- 
sary connection  or  continuity  as  have  meter  and  diction.  To  trace 
all  the  different  versions  of,  say,  the  tragedy  of  Mary  Queen  of 
Scots  throughout  literature  might  well  be  a  problem  of  interest 
for  the  history  of  political  sentiment,  and  would,  of  course,  inci- 
dentally illustrate  changes  in  the  history  of  taste — even  chang- 
ing conceptions  of  tragedy.  But  it  has  itself  no  real  coherence  or 
dialectic.  It  presents  no  single  problem  and  certainly  no  critical 
problem.22  Stoffgeschichte  is  the  least  literary  of  histories. 

The  history  of  literary  genres  and  types  offers  another  group 
of  problems.  But  the  problems  are  not  insoluble  5  and,  despite 
Croce's  attempts  to  discredit  the  whole  conception,  we  have 
many  studies  preparatory  to  such  a  theory  and  themselves  sug- 
gesting the  theoretical  insight  necessary  for  the  tracing  of  a  clear 
history.  The  dilemma  of  genre  history  is  the  dilemma  of  all  his- 
tory: i.e.,  in  order  to  discover  the  scheme  of  reference  (in  this 
case,  the  genre)  we  must  study  the  history ;  but  we  cannot  study 
the  history  without  having  in  mind  some  scheme  of  selection. 
Our  logical  circle  is,  however,  not  insurmountable  in  practice. 
There  are  some  cases,  like  the  sonnet,  where  some  obvious  ex- 
ternal scheme  of  classification  (the  fourteen-line  poem  rhymed 
according  to  a  definite  pattern)  provides  the  necessary  starting- 
point  j  in  other  cases,  like  the  elegy  or  the  ode,  one  may  legiti- 
mately doubt  whether  more  than  a  common  linguistic  label  holds 
together  the  history  of  the  genre.  There  seems  little  overlap  be- 
tween Ben  Jonson's  "Ode  to  Himself,"  Collins'  "Ode  to  Eve- 
ning," and  Wordsworth's  "Intimations  of  Immortality"  j  but  a 
sharper  eye  will  see  the  common  ancestry  in  Horatian  and  Pin- 


Literary  History  273 

daric  ode,  and  will  be  able  to  establish  the  connecting  link,  the 
continuity  between  apparently  disparate  traditions  and  ages.  The 
history  of  genres  is  indubitably  one  of  the  most  promising  areas 
for  the  study  of  literary  history. 

This  "morphological"  approach  can  be  and  should  be  applied 
on  a  large  scale  to  folklore,  where  genres  are  frequently  more 
clearly  pronounced  and  defined  than  in  later  art-literature,  and 
where  this  approach  seems  at  least  as  significant  as  the  commonly 
preferred  study  of  the  mere  migrations  of  "motifs"  and  plots. 
Good  beginnings  have  been  made,  especially  in  Russia.23  Modern 
literature,  at  least  up  to  the  Romantic  revolt,  is  incomprehensible 
without  a  grasp  of  both  classical  genres  and  the  new  genres  which 
arose  in  the  Middle  Ages;  their  mingling  and  contamination, 
their  struggle,  is  a  large  part  of  literary  history  between  1500 
and  1800.  Indeed,  whatever  the  Romantic  age  may  have  done 
to  blur  distinctions  and  to  introduce  mixed  forms,  it  would  be 
an  error  to  underrate  the  power  of  the  concept  of  genre,  even  in 
the  most  recent  literature.  The  early  genre  histories  of  Brune- 
tiere  or  Symonds  are  certainly  vitiated  by  an  excessive  reliance 
on  the  biological  parallel.  But  in  recent  decades  there  have  come 
studies  which  work  more  cautiously.  Such  studies  run  the  danger 
of  reducing  themselves  to  descriptions  of  types  or  to  an  unre- 
lated series  of  individual  discussions,  a  fate  which  has  overtaken 
many  books  calling  themselves  histories  of  the  drama  or  the 
novel.  But  there  are  books  which  clearly  envisage  the  problem 
of  the  development  of  a  type.  It  can  scarcely  be  ignored  in  writ- 
ing the  History  of  English  Drama  up  to  Shakespeare,  within 
which  the  succession  of  types  like  Mysteries  and  Moralities  and 
the  rise  of  modern  drama  can  be  traced  in  striking  mixed  forms 
like  Bale's  King  John.  Though  divided  in  its  purposes,  W.  W. 
Greg's  book  on  Pastoral  Poetry  and  Pastoral  Drama  is  an  early 
example  of  good  genre  history;  24  and  later  C.  S.  Lewis'  Alle- 
gory of  Love  25  has  provided  an  illustration  of  a  clearly  con- 
ceived scheme  of  development.  In  Germany,  there  are  at  least 
two  very  good  books,  Karl  Vietor's  History  of  the  German  Ode 
and  Giinther  Miiller's  History  of  the  German  Song.26  Both  of 
these  authors  have  reflected  acutely  upon  the  problems  with 
which  they  are  confronted.27  Vietor  clearly  recognizes  the  logical 
circle  but  is  not  frightened  by  it:  the  historian,  he  sees,  must 


274  Theory  of  Literature 

intuitively,  though  provisionally,  grasp  what  is  essential  to  the 
genre  which  is  his  concern,  and  then  go  to  the  origins  of  the 
genre,  to  verify  or  correct  his  hypothesis.  Though  the  genre  will 
appear  in  the  history  exemplified  in  the  individual  works,  it  will 
not  be  described  by  all  traits  of  these  individual  works:  we  must 
conceive  of  genre  as  a  "regulative"  concept,  some  underlying 
pattern,  a  convention  which  is  real,  i.e.,  effective  because  it  ac- 
tually molds  the  writing  of  concrete  works.  The  history  never 
needs  to  reach  a  specific  aim  in  the  sense  that  there  cannot  be 
any  further  continuation  or  differentiation  of  a  genre,  but,  in 
order  to  write  a  proper  history,  we  shall  have  to  keep  in  mind 
some  temporal  aim  or  type. 

Exactly  analogous  problems  are  raised  by  a  history  of  a  period 
or  movement.  The  discussion  of  development  must  have  shown 
that  we  cannot  agree  with  two  extreme  views:  either  the  meta- 
physical view  that  period  is  an  entity  whose  nature  has  to  be 
intuited,  or  the  extreme  nominalistic  view  that  period  is  a  mere 
linguistic  label  for  any  section  of  time  under  consideration  for 
the  purposes  of  description.  Extreme  nominalism  assumes  that 
period  is  an  arbitrary  superimposition  on  a  material  which  in 
reality  is  a  continuous  directionless  flux,  and  thus  leaves  us  with 
a  chaos  of  concrete  events  on  the  one  hand  and  with  purely  sub- 
jective labels  on  the  other.  If  we  hold  this  view,  then  obviously 
it  does  not  matter  where  we  put  a  cross-section  through  a  reality 
essentially  uniform  in  its  manifold  variety.  It  is  then  of  no  im- 
portance what  scheme  of  periods,  however  arbitrary  and  me- 
chanical, we  adopt.  We  can  write  literary  history  by  calendar 
centuries,  by  decades,  or  by  years,  in  an  annalistic  fashion.  We 
may  even  adopt  such  a  criterion  as  Arthur  Symons  did  in  his 
book  on  The  Romantic  Movement  in  English  Poetry.28  He  dis- 
cusses only  authors  born  before  1 800  and  of  those  only  such  as 
died  after  1800.  Period  is  then  merely  a  convenient  word,  a 
necessity  in  the  subdivision  of  a  book  or  the  choice  of  a  topic. 
This  view,  though  frequently  unintended,  underlies  the  practice 
of  books  which  devoutly  respect  the  date  lines  between  centuries 
or  which  set  to  a  topic  exact  limitations  of  date  (e.g.,  1700- 1750) 
unjustified  by  any  reason  save  the  practical  need  for  some  limits. 
This  respect  for  calendar  dates  is  legitimate,  of  course,  in  purely 
bibliographical  compilations,  where  it  provides  such  orientation 


Literary  History  275 

as  the  Dewey  decimal  system  offers  to  a  library  5  but  such  peri- 
odical divisions  have  nothing  to  do  with  literary  history  proper. 

Most  literary  histories,  however,  divide  their  periods  in  ac- 
cordance with  political  changes.  Literature  is  thus  conceived  of 
as  completely  determined  by  the  political  or  social  revolutions  of 
a  nation,  and  the  problem  of  determining  periods  is  handed  over 
to  the  political  and  social  historians,  whose  divisions  and  periods 
are  usually  and  without  question  adopted.  If  we  look  into  older 
histories  of  English  literature,  we  shall  find  that  they  are  either 
written  according  to  numerical  divisions  or  according  to  one 
simple  political  criterion — the  reigns  of  the  English  sovereigns. 
It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  show  how  confusing  it  would  be  to 
subdivide  the  later  history  of  English  literature  according  to  the 
death  dates  of  the  monarchs:  nobody  thinks  seriously  of  distin- 
guishing in  early  nineteenth-century  literature  between  the 
reigns  of  George  III,  George  IV,  and  William  IV;  yet  the 
equally  artificial  distinctions  between  the  reigns  of  Elizabeth, 
James  I,  and  Charles  I  still  have  some  survival. 

If  we  look  into  more  recent  histories  of  English  literature, 
we  find  that  the  old  divisions  by  calendar  centuries  or  reigns  of 
kings  have  disappeared  almost  completely  and  have  been  re- 
placed by  a  series  of  periods  whose  names,  at  least,  are  derived 
from  the  most  diverse  activities  of  the  human  mind.  Though  we 
still  use  the  terms  "Elizabethan"  and  "Victorian,"  survivals  of 
the  old  distinctions  between  reigns,  they  have  assumed  a  new 
meaning  inside  a  scheme  of  intellectual  history.  We  keep  them 
because  we  feel  that  the  two  queens  seem  to  symbolize  the  char- 
acter of  their  times.  We  no  longer  insist  upon  a  rigid  chrono- 
logical period  actually  determined  by  the  ascent  to  the  throne 
and  the  death  of  the  monarch.  We  use  the  term  "Elizabethan" 
to  include  writers  before  the  closing  of  the  theaters,  almost  forty 
years  after  the  death  of  the  queen;  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
though  his  life  falls  well  within  the  chronological  limits  of  Vic- 
toria's reign,  we  rarely  speak  of  a  man  like  Oscar  Wilde  as  a 
Victorian.  The  terms,  originally  of  political  origin,  have  thus 
assumed  a  definite  meaning  in  intellectual  and  even  in  literary 
history.  None  the  less,  the  motley  derivation  of  our  current 
labels  is  somewhat  disconcerting.  "Reformation"  comes  from 
ecclesiastical  history;  "Humanism,"  mainly  from  the  history  of 


276  Theory  of  Literature 

scholarship;  "Renaissance"  from  art  history;  "Commonwealth" 
and  "Restoration"  from  definite  political  events.  The  term 
"eighteenth  century"  is  an  old  numerical  term  which  has  as- 
sumed some  of  the  functions  of  literary  terms  such  as  "Augustan" 
and  "Neo-Classic."  "Pre-Romanticism"  and  "Romanticism"  are 
primarily  literary  terms,  while  Victorian,  Edwardian,  and  Geor- 
gian are  derived  from  the  reigns  of  the  sovereigns.  The  same 
bewildering  picture  is  presented  by  almost  any  other  literature: 
for  example,  the  "Colonial  period"  in  American  literature  is  a 
political  term,  while  "Romanticism"  and  "Realism"  are  literary 
terms. 

In  defense  of  this  mixture  of  terms  it  may,  of  course,  be  urged 
that  the  apparent  confusion  was  caused  by  history  itself.  As  lit- 
erary historians,  we  have  first  of  all  to  pay  heed  to  the  ideas  and 
conceptions,  the  programs  and  names,  of  the  writers  themselves, 
and  thus  be  content  with  accepting  their  own  divisions.  The  value 
of  the  evidence  supplied  by  consciously  formulated  programs, 
factions,  and  self-interpretations  in  the  history  of  literature  is, 
of  course,  not  to  be  minimized;  but  surely  the  term  "movement" 
might  well  be  reserved  for  such  self-conscious  and  self-critical 
activities,  to  be  described,  as  we  would  describe  any  other  his- 
torical sequence  of  events  and  pronouncements.  But  such  pro- 
grams are  merely  materials  for  our  study  of  a  period,  just  as  the 
whole  history  of  criticism  will  offer  a  running  commentary  to 
any  history  of  literature.  They  may  give  us  suggestions  and 
hints,  but  they  should  not  prescribe  our  own  methods  and  divi- 
sions, not  because  our  views  are  necessarily  more  penetrating 
than  theirs  but  because  we  have  the  benefit  of  seeing  the  past  in 
the  light  of  the  present. 

Besides,  it  must  be  said,  these  terms  of  confusingly  different 
origin  were  not  established  in  their  own  time.  In  English,  the 
term  "Humanism"  occurs  first  in  1832,  "Renaissance"  in  1840, 
"Elizabethan"  in  18 17,  "Augustan"  in  18 19,  and  "Romanti- 
cism" in  1844.  These  dates,  derived  from  the  Oxford  Dic- 
tionary, are  probably  not  quite  reliable,  for  the  term  "Augustan" 
appears  sporadically  as  early  as  1690;  Carlyle  uses  "Romanti- 
cism" in  1 83 1.29  But  they  indicate  the  time  lag  between  the 
labels  and  the  periods  which  they  designate.  The  Romanticists, 
as  we  know,  did  not  call  themselves  Romanticists,  at  least  in 


Literary  History  2JJ 

England.  Apparently  only  about  1849  were  Coleridge  and 
Wordsworth  connected  with  the  Romantic  movement  and 
grouped  with  Shelley,  Keats,  and  Byron.30  In  her  Literary  His- 
tory of  England  between  the  End  of  the  Eighteenth  and  the 
Beginning  of  the  Nineteenth  Century  (1882),  Mrs.  Oliphant 
never  uses  the  term,  nor  does  she  conceive  of  the  "Lake"  poets, 
the  "Cockney"  school,  and  the  "Satanic"  Byron  as  one  move- 
ment. There  is  thus  no  historical  justification  for  the  present 
usually  accepted  periods  of  English  literature.  One  cannot  escape 
the  conclusion  that  they  constitute  an  indefensible  jumble  of 
political,  literary,  and  artistic  labels. 

But  even  if  we  had  a  series  of  periods  neatly  subdividing  the 
cultural  history  of  man — politics,  philosophy,  the  other  arts,  and 
so  forth — literary  history  should  not  be  content  to  accept  a 
scheme  arrived  at  on  the  basis  of  various  materials  with  different 
aims  in  mind.  Literature  must  not  be  conceived  as  being  merely 
a  passive  reflection  or  copy  of  the  political,  social,  or  even  intel- 
lectual development  of  mankind.  Thus  the  literary  period  should 
be  established  by  purely  literary  criteria. 

If  our  results  should  coincide  with  those  of  political,  social, 
artistic,  and  intellectual  historians,  there  can  be  no  objection.  But 
our  starting  point  must  be  the  development  of  literature  as  lit- 
erature. Period  is,  then,  only  a  subsection  of  the  universal  de- 
velopment. Its  history  can  be  written  only  with  reference  to  a 
variable  scheme  of  values,  and  this  scheme  of  values  has  to  be 
abstracted  from  history  itself.  A  period  is  thus  a  time  section 
dominated  by  a  system  of  literary  norms,  standards,  and  conven- 
tions, whose  introduction,  spread,  diversification,  integration, 
and  disappearance  can  be  traced. 

This  does  not,  of  course,  mean  that  we  have  to  accept  this 
system  of  norms  as  binding  for  ourselves.  We  must  extract  it 
from  history  itself:  we  have  to  discover  it  there  in  reality.  For 
instance,  "Romanticism"  is  not  a  unitary  quality  which  spreads 
like  an  infection  or  a  plague,  nor  is  it,  of  course,  merely  a  verbal 
label.  It  is  an  historical  category  or,  if  one  prefers  the  Kantian 
term,  a  "regulative  idea"  (or,  rather,  a  whole  system  of  ideas) 
with  the  help  of  which  we  interpret  the  historical  process.  But 
we  have  found  this  scheme  of  ideas  in  the  process  itself.  Such  a 
concept  of  the  term  "period"  differs  from  one  in  frequent  use, 


278  Theory  of  Literature 

which  expands  it  into  a  psychological  type  detachable  from  its 
historical  context.  Without  necessarily  condemning  the  use  of 
established  historical  terms  as  names  for  such  psychological  or 
artistic  types,  we  should  see  that  such  a  typology  of  literature  is 
very  different  from  the  matter  under  discussion — that  it  does  not 
belong  to  literary  history  in  the  narrow  sense. 

Thus  a  period  is  not  a  type  or  a  class  but  a  time  section  defined 
by  a  system  of  norms  embedded  in  the  historical  process  and 
irremovable  from  it.  The  many  futile  attempts  to  define  "Ro- 
manticism" show  that  a  period  is  not  a  concept  similar  to  a  class 
in  logic.  If  it  wrere,  all  individual  works  could  be  subsumed  under 
it.  But  this  is  manifestly  impossible.  An  individual  work  of  art 
is  not  an  instance  in  a  class,  but  a  part  which,  together  with  all 
the  other  works,  makes  up  the  concept  of  the  period.  It  thus 
itself  modifies  the  concept  of  the  whole.  The  discrimination  of 
different  "Romanticisms" 31  or  multiple  definitions,  however 
valuable  they  are  as  indications  of  the  complexity  of  the  scheme 
to  which  they  refer,  seem  on  theoretical  grounds  mistaken.  It 
should  be  frankly  realized  that  a  period  is  not  an  ideal  type  or 
an  abstract  pattern  or  a  series  of  class  concepts,  but  a  time  sec- 
tion, dominated  by  a  whole  system  of  norms,  which  no  work  of 
art  will  ever  realize  in  its  entirety.  The  history  of  a  period  will 
consist  in  the  tracing  of  the  changes  from  one  system  of  norms  to 
another.  While  a  period  is  thus  a  section  of  time  to  which  some 
sort  of  unity  is  ascribed,  it  is  obvious  that  this  unity  can  be  only 
relative.  It  means  merely  that  during  this  period  a  certain  scheme 
of  norms  has  been  realized  most  fully.  If  the  unity  of  any  one 
period  were  absolute,  the  periods  would  lie  next  to  each  other  like 
blocks  of  stone,  without  continuity  of  development.  Thus  the 
survival  of  a  preceding  scheme  of  norms  and  the  anticipations  of 
a  following  scheme  are  inevitable,  as  a  period  is  historical  only 
if  every  event  is  considered  as  a  result  of  the  whole  preceding 
past  and  if  its  effects  can  be  traced  into  the  whole  future.32 

The  problem  of  writing  the  history  of  a  period  will  be  first  a 
problem  of  description:  we  need  to  discern  the  decay  of  one 
convention  and  the  rise  of  a  new  one.  Why  this  change  of  con- 
vention has  come  about  at  a  particular  moment  is  a  historical 
problem  insoluble  in  general  terms.  One  type  of  solution  pro- 
posed assumes  that  within  the  literary  development  a  stage  of 


Literary  History  279 

exhaustion  is  reached  requiring  the  rise  of  a  new  code.  The  Rus- 
sian formalists  describe  this  process  as  a  process  of  "automati- 
zation," i.e.,  devices  of  poetic  craft  effective  in  their  time  be- 
come so  common  and  hackneyed  that  new  readers  become  inured 
against  them  and  crave  something  different,  something,  it  is 
assumed,  antithetic  to  what  has  gone  before.  A  seesaw  alter- 
nation is  the  scheme  of  development,  a  series  of  revolts  ever 
leading  to  new  "actualizations"  of  diction,  themes,  and  all 
other  devices.  But  this  theory  does  not  make  clear  why  develop- 
ment has  to  move  in  the  particular  direction  it  has  taken:  mere 
seesaw  schemes  are  obviously  inadequate  to  describe  the  whole 
complexity  of  the  process.  One  explanation  of  these  changes  in 
direction  would  put  the  burden  on  outside  interferences  and 
pressures  of  the  social  milieu.  Each  change  of  literary  conven- 
tion would  be  caused  by  the  rise  of  a  new  class  or  at  least  group 
of  people  who  create  their  own  art:  in  Russia,  with  the  clear 
class  distinctions  and  affiliations  which  prevailed  before  1917, 
frequently  a  close  correlation  between  social  and  literary  change 
can  be  established. 

Another  explanation  turns  to  the  rise  of  a  new  generation. 
This  theory  has  found  many  adherents  since  Cournot's  Consid- 
erations sur  la  marche  des  idees  ( 1 872)  and  has  been  elaborated, 
especially  in  Germany,  by  Petersen  and  Wechssler.33  But  it  can 
be  objected  that  generation,  taken  as  a  biological  entity,  does  not 
offer  any  solution  at  all.  If  we  postulate  three  generations  in  a 
century,  e.g.,  1800-1833,  1 834-1869,  1870-1900,  we  must  admit 
that  there  are  equally  series  1801-1834,  1835-1870,  1871-1901, 
etc.,  etc.  Biologically  considered,  these  series  are  completely 
equal  j  and  the  fact  that  a  group  of  people  born  around  1800 
have  influenced  literary  change  more  profoundly  than  a  group 
born  around  18 15  must  be  ascribed  to  other  than  purely  bio- 
logical causes.  It  is  undoubtedly  true  that  at  some  moments  in 
history  literary  change  is  effected  by  a  group  of  young  people 
(Jugendreihe)  of  about  equal  age:  the  German  Sturm  und 
Drang  or  Romanticism  are  the  obvious  examples.  A  certain 
"generational"  unity  seems  achieved  by  such  social  and  his- 
torical facts  that  only  people  of  a  certain  age  group  can  have 
experienced  an  important  event  such  as  the  French  Revolution 
or  the  two  World  Wars  at  an  impressionable  age.  But  this  is 


280  Theory  of  Literature 

simply  the  case  of  one  powerful  social  influence.  In  other  cases 
we  can  scarcely  doubt  that  literary  change  has  been  profoundly 
influenced  by  the  mature  works  of  old  men.  On  the  whole,  the 
mere  exchange  of  generations  or  social  classes  is  insufficient  to 
explain  literary  change.  It  is  a  complex  process  varying  from 
occasion  to  occasion ;  it  is  partly  internal,  caused  by  exhaustion 
and  the  desire  for  change,  but  also  partly  external,  caused  by 
social,  intellectual,  and  all  other  cultural  changes. 

An  unending  discussion  has  been  given  to  the  main  periods  of 
modern  literary  history.  The  terms  "Renaissance,"  "Classicism," 
"Romanticism,"  "Symbolism,"  and  recently  "Baroque"  have 
been  defined,  redefined,  controverted.34  It  is  unlikely  that  any 
kind  of  agreement  can  be  reached  so  long  as  the  theoretical  issues 
we  have  tried  to  clarify  remain  confused,  so  long  as  the  men 
engaged  in  the  discussions  insist  on  logical  definitions,  confuse 
"period"  terms  with  "type"  terms,  confuse  the  semantic  history 
of  the  terms  with  the  actual  changes  of  style.  Quite  understand- 
ably, A.  O.  Lovejoy  and  others  have  recommended  the  aban- 
donment of  such  terms  as  "Romanticism."  But  the  discussion  of 
a  period  will  at  least  raise  all  kinds  of  questions  of  literary  his- 
tory: the  history  of  the  term  and  the  critical  programs  as  well  as 
the  actual  stylistic  changes ;  the  relationships  of  the  period  to  all 
the  other  activities  of  man  5  the  relationship  to  the  same  periods 
in  other  countries.  As  a  term,  Romanticism  comes  late  to  Eng- 
land, but  there  is  a  new  program  in  Wordsworth's  and  Cole- 
ridge's theories  which  has  to  be  discussed  in  relation  to  the  prac- 
tice of  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge  and  to  that  of  the  other  Ro- 
mantic poets.  There  is  a  new  style  whose  anticipations  can  be 
traced  back  even  into  the  early  eighteenth  century.  We  can  com- 
pare English  Romanticism  with  the  different  Romanticisms  in 
France  and  Germany  and  can  study  the  parallels  or  alleged  par- 
allels with  the  Romantic  movement  in  the  fine  arts.  The  prob- 
lems will  be  different  in  every  time  and  place:  it  seems  impos- 
sible to  make  general  rules.  Cazamian's  supposition  that  the 
alternation  of  periods  has  grown  speedier  and  speedier  until 
today  the  oscillation  has  become  stabilized  is  surely  mistaken, 
and  so  are  attempts  to  state  dogmatically  which  art  precedes 
another  or  which  nation  precedes  another  in  the  introduction  of 
a  new  style.  Obviously  we  should  not  expect  too  much  from 


Literary  History  281 

mere  period  labels :  one  word  cannot  carry  a  dozen  connotations. 
But  the  skeptical  conclusion  which  would  abandon  the  problem 
is  equally  mistaken,  as  the  concept  of  period  is  certainly  one  of 
the  main  instruments  of  historical  knowledge. 

The  further  and  wider  problem,  a  history  of  a  national  litera- 
ture as  a  whole,  is  harder  to  envisage.  It  is  difficult  to  trace  the 
history  of  a  national  literature  as  an  art  when  the  whole  frame- 
work invites  to  references  essentially  unliterary,  to  speculations 
about  national  ethics  and  national  characteristics  which  have  little 
to  do  with  the  art  of  literature.  In  the  case  of  American  litera- 
ture, where  there  is  no  linguistic  distinction  from  another  na- 
tional literature,  the  difficulties  become  manifold,  since  the  de- 
velopment of  the  art  of  literature  in  America  must  be  necessarily 
incomplete  and  partly  dependent  on  an  older  and  stronger  tra- 
dition. Clearly,  any  national  development  of  the  art  of  literature 
presents  a  problem  which  the  historian  cannot  afford  to  ignore, 
though  it  has  scarcely  ever  been  investigated  in  any  systematic 
fashion.  Needless  to  say,  histories  of  groups  of  literatures  are 
even  more  distant  ideals.  The  existent  examples,  such  as  Jan 
Machal's  Slavonic  Literatures  or  Leonardo  Olschki's  attempt  to 
write  a  history  of  all  Romance  literatures  during  the  Middle 
Ages,  are  not  too  successful.35  Most  histories  of  world  literature 
are  attempts  to  trace  the  main  tradition  of  European  literature 
united  by  their  common  descent  from  Greece  and  Rome,  but 
none  of  these  have  gone  beyond  ideological  generalities  or  super- 
ficial compilations  unless  possibly  the  brilliant  sketches  by  the 
brothers  Schlegel,  which  hardly  serve  contemporary  needs.36 
Finally,  a  general  history  of  the  art  of  literature  is  still  a  far  dis- 
tant ideal.  The  existing  attempts,  like  John  Brown's  History  of 
the  Rise  and  Progress  of  Poetry  dating  from  1763,  are  too 
speculative  and  schematic,  or  else,  like  the  Chadwicks'  three  vol- 
umes on  The  Growth  of  Literature,  preoccupied  with  questions 
of  static  types  of  oral  literature.37 

After  all,  we  are  only  beginning  to  learn  how  to  analyze  a 
work  of  art  in  its  integrity;  we  are  still  very  clumsy  in  our 
methods,  and  their  basis  in  theory  is  still  constantly  shifting. 
Thus,  much  is  before  us.  Nor  is  there  anything  to  regret  in  the 
fact  that  literary  history  has  a  future  as  well  as  a  past,  a  future 
which  cannot  and  should  not  consist  merely  in  the  filling  of 


282  Theory  of  Literature 

gaps  in  the  scheme  discovered  by  older  methods.  We  must  seek 
to  elaborate  a  new  ideal  of  literary  history  and  new  methods 
which  would  make  its  realization  possible.  If  the  ideal  here  out- 
lined seems  unduly  "purist"  in  its  emphasis  on  the  history  of 
literature  as  an  art,  we  can  avow  that  no  other  approach  has  been 
considered  invalid  and  that  concentration  seems  a  necessary  anti- 
dote to  the  expansionist  movement  through  which  literary  his- 
tory has  passed  in  the  last  decades.  A  clear  consciousness  of  a 
scheme  of  relationships  between  methods  is  in  itself  a  remedy 
against  mental  confusion,  even  though  the  individual  may  elect 
to  combine  several  methods. 


V 

The  Academic  Situation 


CHAPTER  XX 

The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School 

For  at  least  a  generation,  now,  Americans  of  literary  interests 
have  felt  ill  at  ease  either  within  or  without  our  universities. 
Young  men  have  gone  to  graduate  school  in  search  of  a  doctorate, 
generally  in  English,  with  the  hope  of  receiving  a  serious  literary 
education.  Some  have  dropped  out;  others  have  become  bitter 
but  resigned  3  others  have  complied  but  been  distracted  from 
their  proper  direction  and  only  belatedly  have  sought  to  give 
themselves  that  literary  discipline  they  had  missed. 

What  is  the  matter  with  our  "higher  study"  of  literature?  Are 
we  offered  no  wider  choice  than  between  the  "historical  method" 
(not  the  same  as  literary  history)  and  dilettantism?  Is  the  situa- 
tion peculiarly  American? 

There  is  an  obvious  gain  in  perspective  if,  before  addressing 
ourselves  specifically  and  practically  to  the  familiar  local  situa- 
tion, we  review  briefly  the  comparable  situations,  between  the 
two  World  Wars,  in  England,  France,  Germany,  and  Russia.1 

In  England,  the  mass-production  of  Ph.D.'s  is  not  a  danger, 
for  the  universities  are  still  comparatively  few,  and  manage  with 
small  staffs.2  Mere  antiquarianism,  however,  is  flourishing.  An 
influential  professor  has  been  heard  to  say  that  the  future  of 
literary  scholarship  is  in  "bibliography,"  i.e.,  the  type  of  textual 
criticism  cultivated  by  W.  W.  Greg  and  Dover  Wilson.  But  far 
more  influential  and  prominent  is  a  "genteel"  tradition  which 
approves  the  writing  of  irresponsible,  whimsical,  impressionistic 
essays.  In  leading  positions  there  are  still  men  contemptuous  of 
all  theory  and  system,  of  everything  modern  and  contemporary, 
men  best  exemplified  perhaps  by  the  late  President  of  Magdalen, 
Dr.  George  Gordon.  Though  the  education  of  a  student  of  Eng- 
lish in  the  British  universities  may  be  more  literary  than  in  most 
American  universities,  one  cannot  say  that  it  gives  critical  train- 
ing, not  to  speak  of  anything  like  a  systematic  theory.  In  Eng- 

285 


286  Theory  of  Literature 

land,  little  academic  publication  avoids  the  extremes  of  pure 
antiquarianism  on  the  one  hand  and  pure  literary  essay-writing 
on  the  other.  There  are,  to  be  sure,  some  precursors  of  change, 
men  like  Geoffrey  Tillotson,  a  student  of  the  history  of  English 
poetry,  who,  though  his  theory  be  far  too  relativistic,  is  gen- 
uinely occupied  with  poetics,  or  F.  R.  Leavis,  editor  of  Scrutiny, 
who,  as  leader  of  a  critical  group,  has  fought  vigorously  against 
academic  gentility,  or  Leavis'  able  associate,  L.  C.  Knights.  The 
British  universities  have  the  considerable  advantage  of  drawing 
on  students  who  come  from  cultivated  families,  and  who  have  re- 
ceived sound  training  in  the  classical  languages.  But  the  suspicion 
of  theory  and  the  prevailing  gentility  combine  to  preclude  a  high 
standard  of  critical  scholarship.  A  reform  is  overdue. 

At  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Germany  was  the  center 
and  norm  of  exact  research  and  "scientific  method."  3  Between 
the  two  wars,  reaction  went  to  amazing  lengths:  from  facts  and 
facts  alone,  one  is  tempted  to  say,  the  Germans  swung  to  fancies, 
speculations,  and  dogma.  The  Germans  it  was  who  reacted 
against  what  American  humanists  are  still  likely  to  think  of  as 
"German  scholarship."  Among  them  there  were,  of  course,  tem- 
perate, distinguished  thinkers,  like  Dilthey  and  Unger,  who  de- 
fined problems  of  method  and  clarified  epistemological  issues. 
But,  especially  in  its  later  developments,  German  literary 
scholarship  has  produced  grandiose  theories  and  pretentious 
verbalisms  which  neither  arise  from  nor  apply  themselves  to 
concrete  works  of  art.  Even  before  the  Nazis,  German  theorizers 
concentrated  on  the  German  "Geist"  and  its  permutations.  The 
chief  writers  have  scarcely  been  critically  analyzed,  save  per- 
haps in  terms  of  their  political  thought ,  and,  indeed,  outside 
of  nationalistic  and  racialist  criteria  (sometimes  disguised,  like 
"organicity"),  German  literary  scholarship  is  highly  relativistic. 
Studies  in  "comparative  literature,"  in  some  respects  active,  are 
dominated  by  the  same  reference  to  the  norms  of  German  Kultur 
and  German  Geist.  Though  the  Nazi  rule  has  passed,  those 
twelve  years  must  have  left  their  deep  impress  even  on  men  not 
technically  identified  with  the  "movement."  Its  racial  theory, 
its  pathological  sense  of  superiority  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  and 
its  centrally  political  outlook  have  pervaded  German  literary 


The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School  287 

scholarship,  necessitating  its  present  reconstruction  almost  from 
the  bottom. 

In  France,  the  tradition  of  critical  scholarship  has  been  very 
strong  j  and  French  literary  scholarship,  on  the  whole,  has  been 
in  less  danger  of  losing  the  sense  of  its  true  vocation  than  has 
literary  scholarship  elsewhere.  But  in  France  there  has  been  a 
tendency  toward  mass-production.  The  enormous  these  has  en- 
couraged sheer  wordiness,  rhetoric,  or  the  indiscriminate  display 
of  materials ;  and,  when  the  work  is  devoted  to  a  foreign  author, 
it  has  included  word-for-word  translations.  After  the  first  World 
War,  it  would  appear  that  France  wanted  to  vie  with  German 
organized  scholarship :  one  thinks  of  the  elaborate  and  overelab- 
orate  editions  of  French  classics  like  Rabelais  or  the  "integral" 
literary  history  of  Daniel  Mornet,  who  advocates  the  study  of 
minor  and  even  "minimal"  authors.4  Hence  a  critic  like  Valery 
Larbaud  proposes  that  scholars  be  forbidden  to  write  books  and 
be  limited  to  printing  of  their  treasured  fiches,  their  "notes  and 
queries."  5  The  French  have  produced  little  systematic  literary 
theory  and  have,  on  the  whole,  avoided  methodological  discus- 
sion. In  part,  however,  these  very  lacks  testify  not  only  to  distaste 
for  Teutonic  extremes  but  to  the  general  soundness  of  the  French 
tradition.  The  French  universities  can  still  take  for  granted  a  cer- 
tain humanistic  training  imparted  by  the  lycees — a  training 
which,  though  rather  limited  in  scope  and  taste,  includes  gram- 
mar, rhetoric,  and  explication  of  texts.  But  in  France,  as  else- 
where, the  disjunction  between  scholarship  and  criticism  widens. 

In  Russia,  just  after  the  first  World  War,  the  Formalists, 
originally  a  group  of  linguists,  did  much  to  clarify  the  meth- 
odology of  literary  study  and  produced  some  excellent  analyses 
of  poetry  and  prose.6  Their  resolution  to  study  literature  as  liter- 
ature was  admirable;  but  it  is  impossible  to  endorse  their  avoid- 
ance of  the  critical  problem.  Through  their  stress  on  evolution, 
on  "historical  poetics,"  they  arrived  at  a  new  relativism,  accord- 
ing to  which  works  of  literature  are  to  be  judged  solely  by  how 
far  they  modify  existing  poetic  convention,  succeed  in  changing 
the  course  of  literature. 

Now,  Formalism  as  a  movement  has  been  suppressed.  Most 
of  its  proponents  have  shifted  their  writing  to  historical  novels 
and  biographies.  Literary  scholarship  is  officially  dominated  by 


288  Theory  of  Literature 

the  Marxist  view.  It  is,  however,  possible — witness  the  new 
Soviet  Academy  Histories  of  Russian,  French,  English  and 
American  Literature — to  combine  professions  of  Marxist  faith 
(attested  by  frequent  citations  of  Marx  and  Lenin)  not  only 
with  conventional  historical  scholarship  but  also  with  observa- 
tions formalistic  in  origins  and  methods.  On  the  whole,  Soviet 
literary  scholarship  is  less  purely  antiquarian  than  its  American 
equivalent,  as  it  is  also  far  less  theoretical  and  cloudy  than  the 
German;  but  it  suffers  from  its  narrow  conception  of  social 
utility  and  is  not  centrally  or  primarily  "literary." 

One  cannot  yet  anticipate  the  way  in  which  European  literary 
scholarship  will  be  reconstituted.  But  it  seems  probable  that,  in 
any  case,  leadership  has  passed  to  the  United  States.  Here  the 
material  bases  have  been  unimpaired ;  here  it  has  been  possible 
to  assemble  European  scholars  of  methodological  and  speculative 
concerns  as  well  as  learning ;  and  here  there  is  a  native,  inde- 
pendent critical  movement  beginning  to  make  itself  academically 
felt.  Here  there  is  a  chance — though  one  which  we  can  miss  or 
misuse — to  reconstitute  literary  scholarship  on  more  critical  lines: 
to  give  merely  antiquarian  learning  its  proper  subsidiary  position, 
to  break  down  nationalistic  and  linguistic  provincialisms,  to  bring 
scholarship  into  active  relations  with  contemporary  literature,  to 
give  scholarship  theoretical  and  critical  awareness. 

The  present  status  of  American  scholarship  in  literature  has 
been  frequently  and  often  unfavorably  characterized.7  The  com- 
mon objections  rehearse  the  triviality,  futility,  remoteness  from 
life  and  literature  of  much  academic  publication;  the  chiefly 
quantitative  standards;  the  exaltation  of  the  hitherto  unknown 
and  unpublished,  whatever  its  intrinsic  worth;  the  complacent 
pleasure  in  mere  factual  accuracy.  Academics  are,  of  course,  in- 
clined to  dismiss  such  strictures  as  either  perfectionist  or  hostile — 
made  by  those  extra  muros.  They  defend  current  production 
variously,  sometimes  on  the  conviction  that  any  kind  of  industry 
is  preferable  to  undisguised  laziness,  or  to  merely  polite  pursuits 
like  gardening,  golf  playing,  cocktails,  and  The  New  Yorker. 
They  can  maintain — and  frequently  with  some  truth — that  what 
appears  trivial  to  the  layman  may,  to  the  contextually  aware  spe- 
cialist, seem  significant.  They  may  assert  that  the  fear  of  erudite 
accumulations  ("masses  of  knowledge")  is  excessive — or  vain. 


The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School  289 

Such  defenses,  we  think,  avoid  the  real  issue.  The  crisis  of  the 
profession  is  not  due  to  scholarship  or  to  such  unavoidable  tech- 
nicalities of  a  profession  as  invite  the  ridicule  of  the  outsider. 
Rather,  we  have  to  do  with  a  special  situation,  that  of  the  literary 
scholar ;  and  we  believe  it  remediable  from  within  the  profession. 

There  are,  indubitably,  some  hopeful  signs.  Within  the  last 
twenty-five  years,  those  who  feel  the  need  of  reform  have  grown 
to  be  a  vocal  minority.  At  Chicago,  the  whole  graduate  program 
has  been  boldly  reoriented  from  the  historical  to  the  critical ;  at 
Iowa,  under  Norman  Foerster,  the  School  of  Letters  developed 
a  comprehensive  and  flexible  critical  doctorate ;  almost  every- 
where there  have  been  some  changes  in  an  analogous  direction. 
These  new  interests  at  the  universities  find  expression  and  stimu- 
lation in  the  new  groups  which  have,  at  the  Modern  Language 
Association  conventions,  been  organized  as  "Special  Topics." 
Now,  as  critical  alternative  to  the  organization  by  historical 
periods,  we  have  sections  studying  Poetics  and  General  Aes- 
thetics, Literature  and  Society,  Literature  and  the  Fine  Arts.  The 
same  felt  need  for  the  articulation  of  theory  and  method 
prompted  the  establishment  of  the  English  Institute,  which  has 
already  held  six  annual  meetings. 

In  the  world  of  professional  magazines,  similar  changes  are 
observable.  The  "learned  journals,"  including  the  PMLA,  have 
increasingly  admitted  articles  (theory,  literary  criticism,  studies 
of  contemporary  writers  like  Joyce,  Proust,  and  T.  S.  Eliot) 
which,  before,  would  either  have  been  rejected  or  never  received. 
Some  recently  established  journals,  notably  the  Journal  of  the 
History  of  Ideas  and  the  Journal  of  Aesthetics  and  Art  Criticism, 
have  set  new  standards  of  intellectual  precision  and  stylistic  care. 
But  our  magazines  of  "literary  scholarship"  include  also,  and 
centrally,  the  critical  or  critical  and  creative  quarterlies — the  late 
Criterion  and  Southern  Review,  the  current  Scrutiny,  Sewanee 
Review,  Kenyon  Review,  Partisan  Review,  and  Accent. 

Of  the  obvious  forces  which  work  for  the  preservation  of  the 
existing  order,  the  chief  is  undoubtedly  inertia.  Others  are  of  an 
institutional  nature.  American  universities  have  become  enor- 
mous enterprises  requiring  huge  staffs  of  English  and  Modern 
Language  teachers.  The  necessary  classification  and  grading  of 
such  teachers  can  most  easily  be  done  by  giving  them  a  stand- 


290  Theory  of  Literature 

ardized  education  with  standardized  degrees,  and  by  measuring 
their  subsequent  achievement  in  terms  of  pages  contributed  to 
"learned  journals";  and  it  is  manifestly  difficult  to  replace  this 
system  by  something  less  mechanical. 

Further,  the  overexpansion  of  the  university  has  led  to  a  cor- 
responding overproduction  of  teachers  of  English.  Like  history, 
literature  is  too  often  taught  by  men  without  specific  vocation,  by 
those  who  might  as  well  have  become  businessmen,  lawyers,  or 
preachers.  The  teacher  of  literature  should  himself  be  a  literary 
man,  as  professors  of  philosophy  are,  still,  expected  to  be  philos- 
ophers, not  merely  historians  of  philosophy.  Whether  a  prac- 
ticing poet  or  novelist  or  a  critic  or  theorist,  he  should  be  a  man 
who  has  experienced,  and  who  values,  literature  as  an  art.  In  the 
traditional  sense,  he  should  be  an  "apologist"  for  literature.  Cur- 
rently, other  disciplines — e.g.,  sociology,  psychiatry — press  their 
claims,  extend  the  application  of  their  principles.  The  professor 
of  literature  must  be  conversant  with  the  relations  between  lit- 
erary theory,  philosophy,  psychology.  He  must  be  able  to  give 
some  reasoned  account,  to  representatives  of  other  disciplines,  of 
the  nature  and  value  of  literature.  The  eminent  French  critic, 
Albert  Thibaudet,  has  suggested  that,  just  as  there  are  chairs  of 
philosophy,  so  there  should  be  chairs  of  "literature,"  for  in- 
quiries which  belong  to  the  general  theory  of  literature.  The  sug- 
gestion is  good.  But  we  Americans  should  do  more:  we  should 
seek  to  make  our  professors  of  English  into  professors  of  Litera- 
ture. 

The  reply  from  the  "old  guard"  will  of  course  be  that  no  in- 
dividual can  be  an  "authority"  on  English  literature,  let  alone 
on  "literature."  Distinction  in  literary  scholarship  is  possible  only 
through  sharp  limitation  of  the  data— in  effect,  a  limitation  in 
time  and  space  (one  period,  one  nation,  one  author).  The  stand- 
ard English  departments  must  still  have  an  accredited  specialist 
in  Chaucer,  in  Shakespeare,  and  in  Milton,  and  for  each  period 
of  fifty  or  a  hundred  years. 

As  the  publications  of  scholarship  increase,  it  becomes  more 
and  more  difficult  to  be,  without  sacrifice  of  perspective,  a  tech- 
nical Shakespeare  scholar.  E.  E.  Stoll  is  one  of  our  few  Shake- 
speareans  who  is  also  a  man  of  letters.  The  most  comprehensive 


The  Study  of  Literature  In  the  Graduate  School  29 1 

recent  critic  of  Shakespeare,  the  late  Granville-Barker,  was  a 
dramatist  and  dramatic  producer,  not  a  professor. 

But  prevailing  conceptions  of  what  constitutes  distinction  in  a 
department  we  believe  to  be  unsoundly  narrow  and  superficial. 
Universities  should  appoint  to  their  vacant  chairs  only  men  of 
general  intellectual  and  literary  distinction,  the  best  they  can 
find.  There  is  no  need  to  follow  a  Miltonist  with  a  Miltonist. 
Nor  is  it  necessary  that  Milton  be  taught  by  a  Miltonist,  i.e., 
someone  who  has  published  books  and  articles  on  Milton.  It  is 
the  present  presumption  that  a  man  teaches  only  after  he  has 
published  a  book  or  article  on  the  author  to  whom  the  course  is 
devoted.  We  might  better  argue,  however,  that  he  should  teach 
the  course  only  till  he  has  published  his  book.  After  his  view  has 
been  developed  and  committed  to  print,  it  is  a  waste  of  time  to 
have  it  repeated  and  diluted  in  lectures. 

A  professor  of  literature  should  be  able,  with  proper  ad  hoc 
preparation,  to  teach  and  to  write  on  any  author  or  period  within 
his  linguistic  compass:  W.  P.  Ker,  H.  J.  C.  Grierson,  and  Mario 
Praz  are  examples  of  such  versatile  distinction.  Research  of  a 
"factual"  sort  is  not  necessary  to  the  production  of  sound  crit- 
icism. But,  what  the  teacher-critic  does  need,  of  course,  is  the 
grasp  his  training  in  the  methods  of  literary  scholarship  should 
give  him — the  ability  to  judge  the  general  reliability  of  pub- 
lished research,  the  ability  to  analyze  the  assumptions  and  logic 
of  other  literary  scholars,  the  ability  to  analyze  a  poem,  novel, 
or  play. 

Instead  of  staffing  a  department  in  terms  of  "Shakespeare 
men"  and  "Wordsworth  men,"  we  should,  better,  invoke  types 
of  mind  and  method.  Have  we  someone  adept  at  exegesis  and 
practical  criticism?  Have  we  a  literary  theorist?  Have  we  a  man 
of  strong  philosophical  interests  and  training  who  can  analyze 
the  interrelations  of  literature  and  philosophy  in  the  "history  of 
ideas"?  Have  we  a  poet?  Have  we  a  teacher  who  has  active 
social  and  political  interests  without  ceasing  to  be  a  literary 
man?  Have  we  a  "Catholic  intellectual"?  Have  we  a  man  versed 
in  modern  psychology  and  psychiatry?  Have  we  men  who  are 
adequately  sympathetic  representatives  of  the  chief  literary 
kinds — drama,  the  novel,  poetry? 

Unavoidably,  if  our  departments  alter  their  conceptions  of 


292  Theory  of  Literature 

English  professors,  older  men,  within  a  given  university  and 
elsewhere,  will  complain  that  standards  have  been  lowered  or 
given  up.  All  such  laments,  it  is  important  to  see,  are  not  state- 
ments of  fact  but  judgments  of  value.  If,  in  1930,  Kittredge  had 
retired  and  T.  S.  Eliot  had  been  appointed  in  his  stead,  most 
Harvard  Ph.D.'s  would  probably  have  said  that  Harvard  stand- 
ards had  declined.  They  would  obviously  have  changed.  When 
our  standards  for  professors  grow  more  literary,  we  shall  sur- 
render some  things  once  thought  imperative  while  we  shall  also 
make  new  exactions. 

To  pass  from  appointment  and  promotion  to  their  correlative 
and,  in  large  measure,  prerequisite — the  training  of  future 
teachers  of  literature:  we  urge  far-reaching  reform  in  the  train- 
ing of  candidates  for  the  Ph.D.8  In  general,  two  ways  are  open. 
The  first  would  involve  a  sharper  distinction  between  the  teacher 
and  the  scholar.  Smaller  and  humbler  institutions — perhaps  most 
colleges — would  abandon  their  present  pretensions  to  "scholarly 
research."  The  doctorate — or  at  any  rate  the  Ph.D. — would 
really  represent  what  it  has  professed  to  represent.  Its  holders 
would  be  specialists  with  easy  access  to  the  largest  libraries,  who, 
freed  from  elementary  teaching,  would  devote  themselves  to 
their  own  studies  and  the  training  of  their  successors. 

The  new  "higher"  Ph.D.  would  correspond  rather  to  a  French 
docteur  es  lettres  or  the  Habituation  of  a  German  Privatdozent. 
In  addition,  there  would  be  a  "teaching"  degree,  frankly  utili- 
tarian, which  would  be  focused  on  what  would  be  useful  in  future 
college  teaching,  and  might  require  courses  in  Education  or  pos- 
sibly "practice  teaching."  Though  it  would  meet  some  of  the  crit- 
icisms of  the  present  situation,  this  solution  would  not  be  satis- 
factory, but,  probably,  even  aggravate  the  divorce  between 
learning  and  literature.  The  "high"  Ph.D.  would  tend  to  become 
an  even  more  technical  and  antiquarian  degree ;  the  teaching  de- 
gree would  tend  to  become  purely  vocational,  illiberal. 

The  other  and  opposite  way,  which  is  also  the  democratic  way, 
seems  much  the  sounder.  It  would  reform  the  Ph.D.  in  the 
direction  of  making  its  holder  not  a  specialist  in  a  period  but  a 
professional  man  of  letters,  a  man  who,  in  addition  to  English 
and  American  literature,  knows  literary  theory,  the  modes  of 
scholarship  and  criticism,  who,  without  recourse  to  impressionism 


The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School  293 

and  "appreciation,"  can  analyze  and  discuss  books  with  his  classes. 
Such  a  program  of  graduate  study  could  be  inaugurated  grad- 
ually. Feasible  means  present  themselves. 

In  the  linguistic  requirements,  radical  change  should  be  made. 
The  usual  perfunctory  attainments  in  the  medieval  stages  of 
modern  languages  and  in  Latin  are,  we  think,  of  little  direct 
value  to  the  student  of  modern  literatures.  This  is,  of  course, 
not  to  disparage  really  substantial  attainments  in  the  classical  lan- 
guages, nor  to  question  the  importance  of  Old  French  or  Old 
Norse  as  well  as  Latin  for  the  student  specializing  in  medieval 
literature  and  civilizations.  Nor,  of  course,  do  we  doubt  the 
value  of  a  science  of  linguistics  which  has  its  own  rationale  and 
problems  and  should  train  scholars  by  its  own  methods.  But  the 
new  type  of  Ph.D.  would  profit  most,  it  seems  to  us,  from  a  real 
conversance  with  one  or  two  modern  languages.  The  present 
examinations  in  French  and  German  frequently  test  the  candi- 
dates' ability  to  read  some  paper  in  Englische  Studien  or  Anglia 
or  some  passage  in  Taine  or  Legouis-Cazamian — the  ability,  that 
is,  to  read  academic  or  critical  prose  concerning  English  litera- 
ture. The  assumption,  surely  deplorable,  is  that  French  and 
German,  for  the  man  of  letters  as  for  the  chemist  or  physicist,  are 
tool  subjects,  vehicles  of  scientific  communication. 

At  present  our  linguistic  requirements  are  too  easy,  too  uni- 
form, and  not  adequately  literary.  Our  student  of  literature 
should  know  French  or  German  or  Italian  or  even  Spanish  or 
Russian  so  well  that  he  can  read  poetry  and  fiction  in  one  or  two 
of  those  tongues  with  literary  understanding.  If  he  knows  Racine 
and  Baudelaire,  or  Goethe  and  Rilke — which,  of  course,  im- 
plies that  he  is  able  to  study  other  French  and  German  poets — 
his  understanding  of  English  poetry  will  be  measurably  in- 
creased (in  terms  not  of  "sources"  and  "influences"  but  of  com- 
parison and  contrast)  and  he  will  come  into  direct  relation  with 
modern  movements  of  literature,  which  neither  can  nor  should 
be  understood  in  terms  of  a  single  language.  Thus  it  would  be 
possible  to  lower  those  boundaries  between  national  literatures 
which  have  obstructed  the  synoptic  view  of  literary  history,  to 
approximate,  at  least,  the  ideal  of  "general  literature." 

Our  present  graduate  curriculum  offers  two  kinds  of  courses — 


294  Theory  of  Literature 

those  in  periods  and  those  in  great  authors,  both  (in  practice) 
illustrations  of  a  loosely  conceived  literary  history  j  and  there  is 
a  tendency  to  think  of  compulsory  courses  in  the  chief  periods 
and  authors.  Both  the  course  theory  of  education  and  the  ex- 
clusive rule  of  the  "historical  method"  should  be  challenged.  A 
graduate  school  exists  to  induct  literarily  serious  students  into  an 
acquaintance  with  the  aims  and  methods  of  literary  study  and  to 
provide  critical  supervision  of  their  reading  and  writing.  Such  a 
conception  includes  both  "scholarship"  and  "criticism"  (as  Amer- 
icans commonly  use  these  terms)  and  refuses  to  distinguish  in 
its  methods  of  study  between  literature  before  the  twentieth 
century  and  "contemporary  literature." 

For  curricular  requirements,  we  should  plan  "types"  of 
courses.  One  would  be  a  course  in  a  period,  which  need  not  be 
restricted  to  a  single  literature:  "The  Age  of  Reason,"  or  "The 
Romantic  Movement"  should  survey  at  least  France,  Germany, 
England,  and  America.  A  course  in  a  single  author  provides — 
should  indeed  necessitate — close  reading  and  exegesis ;  but  the 
authors  thus  selected  need  not  be  always  the  same,  nor  only  the 
three  or  four  masters,  nor  always  authors  from  the  remote  past. 
There  should  be  a  genre  course,  which  need  not  be  so  broad  as 
"The  English  Novel"  but  should  certainly  not  turn  into  a  series 
of  isolated  analyses.  There  should  be  a  course  in  literary  theory. 
There  should  be  a  seminar  studying  specific  approaches  to  litera- 
ture— the  biographical,  the  sociological,  the  ideological ;  studying 
the  relations  between  literature  and  the  fine  arts,  between  liter- 
ature and  philosophy. 

The  doctoral  thesis  should  be  conceived  of  as  flexibly  as  we 
conceive  of  professional  literary  distinction.  As  the  most  in- 
dividual part  of  a  man's  professional  training,  it  should  give  the 
reader — not  merely  the  official  departmental  "reader" — a  real 
sample  of  its  author's  intellectual  quality.  It  should  certainly  not 
be  assigned  by  the  sponsoring  professor  as  a  subdivision  of  some 
topic  upon  which  he  is  professionally  engaged ;  it  should,  rather, 
be  proposed  by  the  candidate  and  ratified  as  suitable  and  in- 
tellectually profitable  by  the  advisor.  Length  and  documentation 
— or  degree  of  documentation — should  be  flexible.  Every  topic 
has  its  own  logic  and  its  own  length.  Mere  industry  and  en- 
durance are  not  intellectual  virtues;  and  the  fiches — the  three- 


The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School  295 

by-five  cards — should  not,  even  though  pasted  together,  con- 
stitute a  book. 

Should  the  thesis  be  printed,  and  if  so,  when  and  how?  It,  or 
some  representative  part  of  it,  should  be  published  rather  soon 
after  the  awarding  of  the  degree.  It  does  not  seem  desirable  that 
ten  or  fifteen  years  should  go  to  a  working  over  of  the  thesis, 
which  may  then  become  the  author's  sole  publication.  Appren- 
ticeship should  not  be  prolonged  into  middle  age.  If  a  man  has 
no  capacity  for  independent  study  and  writing,  he  should  not  be 
spared  that  self-knowledge. 

The  success  or  failure  of  the  doctoral  candidate  should  depend 
much  more  evenly  than  is  now  the  case  on  both  thesis  and  gen- 
eral examination.  The  latter  (both  written  and  oral,  and  in  time 
nearer  to  three  days  than  to  three  hours)  should  be  passed  before 
active  work  on  the  thesis  is  begun.  The  general  examination 
should  be  critical  (i.e.,  exegetical  and  evaluative)  as  well  as  fac- 
tual and  historical.  At  some  schools,  it  may  be  strategic  to  set 
separate  papers,  one  historical  and  the  other  critical  j  but  such  a 
separation  would  be  false  were  it  taken  to  imply  some  real  dis- 
junction between  history — literary  history — and  criticism.  The 
final  oral  should  either  be  abandoned  or  limited  to  a  discussion 
of  the  thesis.  As  a  general  examination,  it  comes  too  late  in  the 
student's  career.  It  is  usually  so  badly  planned  that  it  tests  only 
the  knowledge  of  isolated  bits  of  information.9 

In  some  European  universities,  every  candidate  for  the  Ph.D., 
whether  in  Latin  or  in  Chemistry,  has  to  pass  a  two-hour  oral 
examination  in  philosophy — the  history  of  European  philosophy 
and  theory  (psychology,  logic,  epistemology,  perhaps).  The  in- 
tent is  thoroughly  sound.  The  learned  specialist  should  also  be 
a  comprehensive,  "educated  man."  And  he  should  also  know 
something  concerning  the  "philosophy"  of  his  own  subject,  see 
its  place,  historically  and  theoretically,  in  the  whole  structure  of 
human  knowledge,  thought,  and  civilization.  For  literary  men, 
this  would,  of  course,  mean  aesthetics,  with  its  subdivision, 
poetics.  Sometimes  (e.g.,  at  Berlin  under  Dessoir  and  at  Prince- 
ton under  Bowman)  all  prospective  Ph.D.'s  have  been  required 
to  attend  a  course  of  philosophical  lectures  especially  addressed 
to  them.  A  course  would  seem  less  useful,  however,  than  individ- 
ually guided  reading  upon  which  the  candidate  should  be  orally 


296  Theory  of  Literature 

examined  by  members  of  the  philosophy  department.  What  is 
needed,  in  any  case,  is  not  another  ritual  gesture  toward  the 
hypothetic  unity  of  human  knowledge  but,  at  our  highest  level 
of  education,  some  actual  discipline  for  all  in  the  unification  of 
knowledge — in  logic,  epistemology,  or  semiotics.  The  shocking 
inability  of  one  scholar  to  communicate,  at  any  respectable  level 
of  abstraction,  with  another  scholar ;  the  inability  of  a  specialist 
to  state  either  to  himself,  or  to  a  specialist  in  another  discipline, 
the  assumptions  and  sanctions  of  his  researches:  these  are  recog- 
nized symptoms  of  a  culture's  disruption.  Though  the  world  will 
not  be  put  together  again  by  semiotics  or  even  philosophy,  a 
modest  degree  of  intellectual  communication  between  scientists, 
social  scientists,  and  humanists  can  do  much  to  hold  together 
what  remains. 

These  recommendations  for  the  reform  of  the  English  doc- 
torate can  be  applied  with  slight  modifications  to  the  degree  in 
the  other  modern  literatures.  Even  Latin  and  Greek  may  be  re- 
vitalized by  reducing  their  stress  on  antiquarianism  and  the  pur- 
suit of  microscopic  philological  learning.  A  student  of  French 
literature  (or  German  or  Spanish)  would  also  profit  from  a 
sharp  reduction  in  the  requirements  of  medieval  languages  and 
linguistics  and  a  strong  stress  on  literary  theory  and  criticism.  He 
should  elect  as  a  second  subject  English  literature,  needed  to 
help  him  understand  and  to  teach  his  European  literature.  It  is 
an  anomalous  situation  that  many  teachers  of  French,  German, 
and  Spanish  are  almost  totally  ignorant  of  the  literature  in  their 
own,  or  at  least  their  students',  native  tongue.  The  combination 
of  French  and  English,  German  and  English,  Spanish  and  Eng- 
lish might  be  trusted  to  break  down  the  cultural  provincialism 
and  even  the  cultural  Francophilia,  Germanophilia,  or  Hispano- 
philia  of  many  of  our  teachers  of  French,  German,  and  Spanish.10 

Our  proposals  for  reform  may  also  suggest  that  there  is  the 
possibility  of  a  revival,  at  least  in  the  larger  institutions,  of 
Comparative  Literature,  which  should  become  simply  a  Depart- 
ment of  General  or  International  Literature,  or  simply  of  Lit- 
erature. The  dangers  of  dilettantism,  of  mere  sentimental  ex- 
pansionism, are  here  acute.  Professionals  in  the  established  lit- 
eratures have  frequently  felt  that  such  studies  offer  an  easy 
escape  from  the  rigors  of  their  linguistic,  philological,  and  his- 


The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School  297 

torical  training.  But  there  is  nothing  wrong  in  this  if  the  escape 
from  petty  antiquarianism  be  compensated  for  by  a  rigorous 
training  in  literary  theory  and  criticism.  Proper  safeguards 
against  dilettantism  can  be  introduced,  among  them,  high  initial 
language  requirements.  One  literature  should  be  the  area  of  con- 
centration j  and  within  it  almost  as  much  could  be  demanded  as 
from  the  student  of  the  one  literature.  Why  should  it  not  be 
possible  to  combine  the  study  of  French  and  German  or  English 
and  French?  In  the  Romance  Language  departments,  it  is  pos- 
sible and  even  necessary  to  study  French  and  Spanish  or  French 
and  Italian  or  even  all  three  major  Romance  literatures. 

Departments  of  Comparative  Literature  should  be  also  con- 
cerned to  encourage  studies  in  the  classical  tradition  as  continued 
in  the  modern  literatures,  a  topic  surely  deserving  of  systematic 
cultivation.  The  Department  of  Comparative  Literature  could 
also  easily  become  the  special  protector  of  studies  in  literary 
theory,  studies  which  are  not  and  cannot  be  confined  to  a  single 
linguistic  medium.  A  History  of  Criticism  not  concerned  with, 
at  least,  Aristotle,  the  Italians  of  the  Renaissance,  and  the  French 
of  the  seventeenth  century  is  hardly  worthy  of  the  name ;  yet  it 
can  be  labeled  English  only  if  we  extend  the  English  Depart- 
ment to  take  all  literature  for  its  province.  The  Department  of 
Comparative  Literature  may  adopt  as  a  special  task  the  needed 
training  of  teachers  prepared  to  direct  the  Great  Books,  Human- 
ities, and  Literature  Core  courses  now  given  in  many  American 
institutions  and  now  usually  taught  by  teachers  grossly  unpre- 
pared for  their  task.11  Thus  the  department  may  become  the 
center  for  the  reform  which  should,  however,  be  carried  out 
primarily  within  the  departments  of  English  and  the  other 
Modern  Languages,  the  reform  which,  briefly,  demands  a  Ph.D. 
in  literature  rather  than  in  English,  French,  or  German  Phi- 
lology. 

It  has  been  objected  to  such  a  program  as  ours  that  it  asks  for 
a  reform  of  homo  Americanus,  that  it  ignores  his  preoccupation 
with  the  job,  his  ideal  of  efficiency,  his  belief  in  teaching  anybody 
and  everybody,  his  inborn  positivism.12  This  objection  we  do  not 
grant.  While  we  all  hope  for  a  change  in  man,  and  in  the  Amer- 
ican specifically,  the  scheme  proposed  is  not  Utopian  nor  does  it 
contradict  fundamental  American  traditions.  It  is  the  older,  the 


298  Theory  of  Literature 

existing,  program  which  is  "unrealistic,"  since  it  lacks  integration 
with  contemporary  life  and  literature,  and  does  not  prepare  for 
the  teaching  in  the  college  classroom  which  the  literary  doctor  is 
to  undertake. 

We  do  not  ask  for  reorientation  according  to  some  vague  and 
tenuous  idealism.  If  we  reject  some  of  the  preconceptions  of 
nineteenth-century  scientism — its  atomism,  its  excessive  deter- 
minism, its  skeptical  relativism — we  are  thereby  in  agreement 
with  well-nigh  all  of  the  physical  and  social  sciences,  for  with 
them  today,  revolutionary  concepts  such  as  patterns,  fields,  and 
Gestalt  have  superseded  the  old  concepts  of  atomism,  and  with 
them  determinism  is  no  longer  a  generally  accepted  dogma.  A 
turn  toward  the  study  of  theory  and  criticism  is  neither  "ideal- 
istic" nor  un-American. 

The  education  of  the  recent  past  was  conspicuous  for  its  pro- 
vincial reduction  of  all  serious  values  to  the  scientific  and  its 
consequent  reduction  of  the  humanities  to  the  status  of  pseudo- 
sciences  or  irresponsible  eclecticisms.  We  need  not  longer  main- 
tain this  nineteenth-century  epistemology  or  accept  the  dis- 
missal of  the  arts  as  no  longer  deserving  of  serious  attention.  But 
we  professors  of  literature  must  not  hope  to  persist  in  our  old, 
easy  ways,  our  personal  compoundings  of  pedantry  and  dil- 
ettantism. Literary  study  within  our  universities — our  teaching 
and  our  writing — must  become  purposively  literary.  It  must  turn 
away  from  the  delightful  details  of  "research"  and  direct  itself 
toward  the  large,  unsolved  problems  of  literary  history  and  lit- 
erary theory.  It  must  receive  stimulation  and  direction  from 
modern  criticism  and  contemporary  literature — from  participa- 
tion in  literature  as  a  living  institution. 


Notes 


CHAPTER    I 

Literature  and  Literary  Study 

1.  Advocated  in  Stephen  Potter's  The  Muse  in  Chains,  London,   1937. 

2.  Ferdinand  Brunetiere,  UEvolution  des  genres  dans  Vhistoire  de  la 
litterature,  Paris,  1890;  J.  A.  Symonds,  Shakspere's  Predecessors  in 
the  English  Drama,  London,  1884,  and  "On  the  Application  of 
Evolutionary  Principles  to  Art  and  Literature,"  Essays  Speculative 
and  Suggestive,  London,  1890,  Vol.  I,  pp.  42-84;  John  Matthew 
Manly,  "Literary  Forms  and  the  New  Theory  of  the  Origin  of 
Species,"  Modem  Philology,  IV  (1907),  pp.  577-95. 

3.  LA.  Richards,  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism,  London,  1924,  pp. 
120,  251. 

4.  Wilhelm  Dilthey,  Einleitung  in  die  G  eisteszvissenschaften,  Berlin, 
1883. 

5.  Wilhelm  Windelband,  Geschichte  und  Naturzvissenschaft,  Strass- 
burg,  1894.  Reprinted  in  Praludien,  4th  ed.,  Tubingen,  1907, 
Vol.  II,  pp.   136-60. 

6.  Heinrich  Rickert,  Die  Grenzen  der  naturzvissenschaftlichen  Begrijfs- 
bildung,  Tubingen,  1 91 3;  also  Kulturwissenschaft  und  Naturzvissen- 
schaft, Tubingen,  1921. 

7.  A.    D.    Xenopol,    Les   Principes    fondamentaux    de    Vhistoire,    Paris, 

1894;  second  ed.,  under  title  La  Theorie  de  Vhistoire,  Paris,  1908; 
Benedetto  Croce,  History:  Its  Theory  and  Practice,  New  York,  1 92 1, 
and  History  as  the  Story  of  Liberty,  New  York,  1940. 

8.  Fuller  discussions  of  these  problems  in  Maurice  Mandelbaum,  The 
Problem  of  Historical  Knowledge,  New  York,  1938;  Raymond  Aron, 
La  Philosophie  critique  de  Vhistoire,  Paris,  1938. 

9.  Louis  Cazamian,  L 'Evolution  psychologique  de  la  litterature  en 
Angleterre,  Paris,  1920,  and  the  second  half  of  E.  Legouis  and  L. 
Cazamian,  Histoire  de  la  litterature  anglaise,  Paris,  1924  (English 
translation  by  H.  D.  Irvine  and  W.  D.  Maclnnes,  2  vols.,  London, 
1926-7). 

10.   Cf.   W.    K.   Wimsatt,   Jr.,    "The   Structure   of   the    'Concrete    Uni- 
versal' in  Literature,"  PMLA,  LXII  (1947),  pp.  262-80  (reprinted 

299 


300  Notes  [ff.  7-16 

in  Criticism  [ed.  Schorer,  Miles,  McKenzie],  N.  Y.,  1948,  pp.  393- 
403);  Scott  Elledge,  "The  Background  and  Development  in  English 
Criticism  of  the  Theories  of  Generality  and  Particularity,"  ibid.,  pp. 
147-82. 
II.  R.  G.  Collingwood,  "Are  History  and  Science  Different  Kinds  of 
Knowledge?"  Mind,  XXXI  (1922),  pp.  449-50,  and  Pitirim 
Sorokin,  Social  and  Cultural  Dynamics,  Cincinnati,  1937,  Vol.  I, 
pp.    168-74,  etc. 

CHAPTER    II 

The  Nature  of  Literature 

1.  Edwin  Greenlaw,  The  Province  of  Literary  History,  Baltimore, 
1931,  p.   174. 

2.  Mark  van  Doren,  Liberal  Education,  New  York,  1943. 

3.  Thomas  C.  Pollock,  The  Nature  of  Literature,  Princeton,   1942. 

4.  Most  of  the  work  of  E.  E.  Stoll  is  relevant  here.  See  also  L.  L. 
Schiicking,  Charakterp-oble?ne  bei  Shakespeare,  Leipzig,  191 9  (Eng- 
lish tr.,  London,  1922)  and  L.  C.  Knights,  Hozv  Many  Children 
Had  Lady  Macbeth? ,  Cambridge,  1 93 3  (reprinted  in  Explorations, 
London,  1946,  pp.  15-54).  Recent  treatments  of  conventionalism 
vs.  naturalism  in  the  drama  are  S.  L.  Bethell,  Shakespeare  and  the 
Popular  Dramatic  Tradition,  Durham,  N.  C,  1944,  and  Eric  Bent- 
ley,  The  Playwright  as  Thinker,  New  York,  1946. 

5.  For  remarks  on  time  in  the  novel,  cf.  Edwin  Muir,  The  Structure 
of  the  Novel,  London,  1928.  For  the  treatment  of  time  in  other 
genres,  cf.  T.  Zielinski,  "Die  Behandlung  gleichzeitiger  Vorgiinge 
im  antiken  Epos,"  Philologus,  Supplenie?itband,  VIII  (1899-1901), 
pp.  405-499;  Leo  Spitzer,  "Uber  zeitliche  Perspektive  in  der  neueren 
franzosischen  Lyrik,"  Die  neueren  Sprachen,  XXXI  (1923),  pp.  241- 
66  (reprinted,  Stilstudien,  II,  Munich,  1928,  pp.  50-83);  Oskar 
Walzel,  "Zeitform  im  lyrischen  Gedicht,"  Das  Wortkunstzcerk,  Leip- 
zig, 1926,  pp.  277-96. 

6.  Adolf  von  Hildebrand,  Das  Problem  der  For?n  in  der  bilde?iden 
Kimst,  third  edition,  Strassburg,  190 1  (English  tr.,  New  York, 
1907).  Cf.  also  Hermann  Konnerth,  Die  Kimsttheorie  Conrad 
Fiedlers,  Munich,  1909;  Alois  Riehl,  "Bemerkungen  zu  dem  Prob- 
lem der  Form  in  der  Dichtkunst,"  Viertel jahrschrift  fur  zvissen- 
schaftliche  Philosophie,  XXI  (1897),  pp.  283-306,  XXII  (1898), 
96-114  (an  application  of  the  concept  of  pure  visibility  to  litera- 
ture) ;  also  Benedetto  Croce,  "La  Teoria  dell'arte  come  pura  visi- 
bility,"  Nuovi  Saggi  di  Estetica,  Bari,  1920,  pp.  239-54. 


ff.  16-25]  Notes  301 

7.  Theodor  A.  Meyer,  Das  Stilgesetz  der  Poesie,  Leipzig,   1901. 

8.  Cf.  the  bibliography  of  this  chapter  for  the  books  upon  which  this 
discussion  is  based. 

CHAPTER    III 

The  Function  of  Literature 

1.  Horace   (Ars  Poetica,  lines  333-44)   gives,  in  fact,  three  alternative 
ends  for  poetry: 

ilAut  prodesse  volunt  out  delect  are  poetae 

Omne  tulit  punctum  qui  miscuit  utile  dulci, 
Lectorem  delectando  fariterque  monendo  .   .   ." 

The  "polar  heresies" — the  taking  of  either  alternative  end  by 
itself — are  refuted  in  R.  G.  Collingwood's  Principles  of  Art,  Oxford, 
1938  (the  chapters  on  "Art  as  Magic"  and  "Art  as  Amusement"). 

2.  Mortimer  Adler,  Art  and  Prudence,  New  York,    1937,   p.    35    and 
-passim;  K.  Burke,  Counter  statement,  New  York,  193 1,  p.  151. 

3.  G.  Boas,  Primer  for  Critics,  Baltimore,   1937;  T.  S.  Eliot,   Use  of 
Poetry,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1933,  pp.  113,  155. 

4.  W.  T.  Stace,  The  Meaning  of  Beauty,  London,  1929,  p.  161. 

5.  "Flat"  and  "round"  are  terms  from  Forster's  Aspects  of  the  Novel, 
London,  1927,  pp.  103  ff. 

"A  person  may  be  regarded  as  a  complex  of  many  qualities  whose 
absolute  intensities  and  relative  proportions  determine  the  person's 
'character'  "  (E.  Woodbridge,  The  Drama:  Its  Law  and  Its  Tech- 
nique, 1898,  p.  133). 

6.  Karen  Horney,  Self-Analysis,  New  York,    1942,  pp.   38-9;   Forster, 
op.  cit.,  p.  74. 

7.  Max  Eastman,  The  Literary  Mind:  Its  Place  in  an  Age  of  Science, 
New  York,  1935,  esp.  p.  155  ff. 

8.  Cf.  Bernard  C.  Heyl,  New  Bearings  in  Esthetics  and  Art  Criticism, 
New  Haven,  1943,  pp.  51-87. 

9.  Cf.    Dorothy    Walsh,    "The    Cognitive    Content    of    Art,"    Philo- 
sophical Review,  LII  (1943),  pp.  433-51. 

10.  Eliot,  Selected  Essays,  New  York,  1932,  pp.  1 15-7:  the  particular 
essay  is  "Shakespeare  and  the  Stoicism  of  Seneca."  "The  poet  who 
'thinks,'  "  writes  Eliot,  "is  merely  the  poet  who  can  express  the 
emotional  equivalent  of  thought.  .  .  .  All  great  poetry  gives  the 
illusion  of  a  view  of  life.  When  we  enter  into  the  world  of  Homer, 
of   Sophocles,    or   Virgil,   or    Dante,   or   Shakespeare,    we    incline    to 


302  Notes  [pp.  25-32 

believe  that  we  are  apprehending  something  that  can  be  expressed 
intellectually;  for  every  precise  emotion  tends  towards  intellectual 
formulation." 

11.  Susanne  K.  Langer,  Philosophy  in  a  New  Key,  Cambridge,  Mass., 
1942,  "Discursive  Forms  and  Presentational  Forms,"  p.  79  ff. 

12.  Op.  cit.,  p.  288. 

13.  The  fact  that  librarians  lock  up  and  that  censors  prohibit  the  sale 
of  some  books  only  does  not  prove  that  those  books  alone  are  propa- 
ganda, even  in  the  popular  sense.  It  proves,  rather,  that  the  prohibited 
books  are  propaganda  in  behalf  of  causes  disapproved  by  the  ruling 
society. 

14.  Eliot,  "Poetry  and  Propaganda,"  in  Literary  Opinion  in  America  (ed. 
Zabel),  New  York,  1937,  p.  25  ff. 

15.  Stace,  op.  cit.,  p.  164  ff. 

16.  Goethe,  Dichtung  uni  Wahrheit,  Bk.  XIII.  Collingwood  {op.  cit., 
pp.  1 2 1-4)  distinguishes  "expressing  emotion"  (art)  from  "betray- 
ing emotion,"  one  form  of  not-art. 

17.  Plato,  Republic,  X,  §  606  D;  Augustine,  Confessions,  I,  p.  21 ; 
A.  Warren,  "Literature  and  Society,"  Twentieth  Century  English 
(ed.  W.  S.  Knickerbocker),  New  York,  1946,  pp.  304-14. 

18.  Spingarn's  History  of  Literary  Criticism  in  the  Renaissance  (New 
York,  rev.  ed.,  1 924)  surveys  our  topic  under  the  terms  "function" 
and  "justification"  of  poetry. 

19.  A.  C.  Bradley,  "Poetry  for  Poetry's  Sake,"  Oxford  Lectures  on 
Poetry,  Oxford,  1909,  pp.  3-34. 

CHAPTER.    IV 

Literary  Theory,  History,  and  Criticism 

1.  Philip  August  Boekh,  Encyklopadie  und  Methodologie  der  philolo- 
gischen  Wissenschaften,  Leipzig,  1877  (Second  ed.  1886). 

2.  F.  W.  Bateson,  "Correspondence,"  Scrutiny,  IV  (1935),  pp.  181-85. 

3.  Ernst  Troeltsch,  Der  Historismus  und  seine  Probleme,  Tubingen, 
1922;  Der  Historismus  und  seine  Uberzvindung,  Berlin,  1924. 

4.  Hardin  Craig,  Literary  Study  and  the  Scholarly  Profession,  Seattle, 
Wash.,  1944,  p.  70.  Cf.  also:  "The  last  generation  has  rather  un- 
expectedly decided  that  it  will  discover  the  meaning  and  values  of  old 
authors  themselves  and  has  pinned  its  faith  to  the  idea,  for  example, 
that  Shakespeare's  own  meaning  is  the  greatest  of  Shakespearean  mean- 
ings." Pp.  126-7. 

5.  E.g.,  in  Poets  and  Playwrights,  Minneapolis,  1930,  p.  217;  and  From 
Shakespeare  to  Joyce,  New  York,  1944,  p.  ix. 


ff.  32-39]  Notes  303 

6.  E.g.,  in  Lily  Campbell,  Shakespeare's  Tragic  Heroes:  Slaves  of  Passion, 
Cambridge,  1930;  also  Oscar  J.  Campbell,  "What  is  the  Matter  with 
Hamlet?"  Yale  Review,  XXXII  (1942),  pp.  309-22.  Stoll  holds  to 
a  different  variety  of  historicism  which  insists  on  reconstructing  stage 
conventions  but  attacks  the  reconstruction  of  psychological  theories. 
See  "Jacques  and  the  Antiquaries,"  From  Shakespeare  to  Joyce,  pp. 

I38-45- 

7.  "Imagery  and  Logic:  Ramus  and  Metaphysical  Poetics,"  Journal  of  the 
History  of  Ideas,  III  (1942),  pp.  365-400. 

8.  F.  A.  Pottle,  The  Idiom  of  Poetry,  Ithaca,  N.  Y.,  1941  (Second  ed., 
1946). 

9.  Cf.  the  exposition  by  Hoyt  Trowbridge,  "Aristotle  and  the  New  Criti- 
cism," Sewanee  Review,  LII  (1944),  pp.  537-55. 

10.  The  example  comes  from  Harold  Cherniss,  "The  Biographical  Fashion 
in  Literary  Criticism,"  University  of  California  Publications  in  Classi- 
cal Philology,  XII  (1943).  PP-  279-93. 

11.  R.  G.  Collingwood,  Principles  of  Art,  Oxford,  1 93 8,  p.  4.  As  Allen 
Tate  observes,  "The  scholar  who  tells  us  that  he  understands  Dryden 
but  makes  nothing  of  Hopkins  or  Yeats  is  telling  us  that  he  does  not 
understand  Dryden,"  in  "Miss  Emily  and  the  Bibliographer"  {Reason 
in  Madness,  New  York,  1941,  p.  115). 

12.  Norman  Foerster,  The  American  Scholar,  Chapel  Hill,  1929,  p.  36. 

13.  A  few  recent  discussions  of  the  relations  of  literary  scholarship  and 
criticism  are  listed  in  the  bibliography  to  this  chapter. 

chapter  v 
National,  Comparative,  and  General  Literature 

1.  Cf.  Fernand  Baldensperger,  "Litterature  comparee:  Le  Mot  et  la 
chose,"  Revue  de  litterature  comparee,  I  (1921),  pp.  1-29. 

2.  F.  C.  Green,  Minuet,  London,  1935. 

3.  Hans  Naumann,  Primitive  Gemeinschaftskultur,  Jena,  1 92 1. 

4.  Quite  irrelevant  to  the  study  of  Shakespeare  are  the  world-wide  paral- 
lels to  the  Hamlet  story  collected  in  Schick's  Corpus  Hamleticum,  5 
vols.,  Berlin,  1912-38. 

5.  This  is  true  of  the  work  of  Alexander  Veselovsky,  dating  back  to  the 
1870's;  the  later  work  of  J.  Polivka  on  Russian  fairy-tales ;  and  the 
writings  of  Gerhard  Gesemann  on  the  Yugoslav  Epic  (e.g.,  Studien 
zur  siidslavischen  Volksepik,  Reichenberg,  1926).  See  the  instructive 
account  by  Margaret  Schlauch,  "Folklore  in  the  Soviet  Union," 
Science  and  Society,  VIII  (1944),  pp.  205-22. 


304  Notes  [pp.  39-42 

6.  Cf.  P.  Bogatyrev  and  Roman  Jakobson,  "Die  Folklore  als  eine 
besondere  Form  des  SchafTens,"  Donum  Natalicium  Schrijnen, 
Nijmegen,  Utrecht,  1929,  pp.  900-13.  This  essay  seems  to  over- 
stress  the  distinction  between  folk  literature  and  higher  literature. 

7.  The  bibliography  lists  some  of  the  chief  attempts  at  defining  the 
scope  of  comparative  literature. 

8.  Cf.  Benedetto  Croce's  "La  Letteratura  Comparata"  in  Problemi  di 
Estetica,  Bari,  1910,  pp.  73-9,  originally  occasioned  by  the  first 
number  of  George  Woodberry's  short-lived  Journal  of  Comparative 
Literature,  New  York,  1 90  3. 

9.  Goethe's  Gespr'dche  mit  Eckermann,  January  31,  1827;  Kunst  und 
Alter  turn  (1827);  Werke,  Weimarer  Ausgabe,  Series  I,  Vol.  XLI 
(Part  2),  p.  265  (a  review  of  Duval's  Tasso). 

10.  Paul  Van  Tieghem,  "La  synthese  en  histoire  litteraire:  Litterature 
comparee  et  litterature  generale,"  Revue  de  synthese  historique,  XXXI 
(1921),  pp.  1-27;  Robert  Petsch,  "Allgemeine  Literaturwissenschaft," 
Zeitschrift  fur  Asthetik,  XXVIII  (1934),  pp.  254-60.  The  term 
"litterature  generale"  appears  to  have  been  first  employed  by  Nepo- 
mucene  Lemercier  in  his  Cours  analytique  de  litterature  generale, 
Paris,  1 81 7. 

11.  Paul  Van  Tieghem,  Ossian  en  France,  2  vols.,  Paris,  1 91 7;  La  Poesie 
de  la  nuit  et  des  to??ibeaux  en  France  au  XVIIIe  silcle,  Bruxelles, 
1925;  Le  Preromantisme,  2  vols.,  Paris,  1929,  1930;  Histoire  lit- 
teraire de  V Europe  et  de  V  Amerique  de  la  Re?iaissance  a  nos  jours, 
Paris,  1 941. 

12.  August  Wilhelm  Schlegel,  Uber  dramatische  Kunst  und  Literatur,  3 
vols.,  Heidelberg,  1 809-11;  Friedrich  Schlegel,  Geschichte  der  alten 
und  neuen  Literatur,  Vienna,  1815;  Friedrich  Bouterwek,  Geschichte 
der  Poesie  und  Beredsamkeit  seit  de?n  Ende  des  dreizehnten  Jahr- 
hunderts,  13  vols.,  Gottingen,  1801-19;  Simonde  de  Sismondi,  De  la 
Litterature  du  viidi  de  P Europe,  4  vols.,  Paris,  1 8 1  3  ;  Henry  Hallam, 
An  Introduction  to  the  Literature  of  the  Fifteenth,  Sixteenth,  and 
Seventeenth  Centuries,  4  vols.,  London,  1836-9. 

13.  In  the  same  year,  1886,  appeared  H.  M.  Posnett's  Comparative  Lit- 
erature, London,  and  N.  P.  Karayev's  Literaturnaya  evolutsiya  na 
zapade  {Literary  Evolution  in  the  West),  St.  Petersburg. 

14.  Leonardo  Olschki,  Die  romanischen  Liter aturen  des  Mittel alters,  Wild- 
park-Potsdam,  1928  (a  volume  of  O.  Walzel's  Handbuch  der  Litera- 
turwissenschaft) . 

15.  Andreas  Heusler,  Die  altgermanische  Dichtung,  Wildpark-Potsdam, 
1923  (also  in  Walzel's  Handbuch),  is  an  excellent  sketch. 


ff.  42-50]  Notes  305 

16.  Jan  Machal,  Slovanske  literatury,  3  vols.,  Prague,  1922-29  (unfin- 
ished), is  the  most  recent  attempt  to  write  a  history  of  all  Slavic  lit- 
eratures. The  possibility  of  a  Slavic  comparative  history  of  literature 
is  discussed  in  Slavische  Rundschau,  1932. 

1 7.  E.g.,  A.  O.  Lovejoy,  "On  the  Discrimination  of  Romanticisms"  in 
PMLA,  XXXIX  (1924),  pp.  229-53.  [Reprinted  in  Essays  in  the 
History  of  Ideas,  Baltimore,  1945,  pp.  228-53.]  Henri  Peyre  (Le 
Classicisme  francaise,  New  York,  1942)  argues  strongly  for  the  sharp 
distinction  of  French  classicism  from  all  the  other  neo-classicisms. 
Erwin  Panofsky  ("Renaissance  and  Renascences,"  Kenyon  Review, 
VI  (1944),  pp.  201-36)  favors  the  traditional  view  of  the  Renais- 
sance. 

18.  Josef  Nadler,  Literaturgeschichte  der  deutschen  St'dmme  und  Land- 
schajten,  Regensburg,  3  vols.,  191 2-1 8  (Second  edition,  4  vols.,  1923- 
28;  a  fourth,  and  Nazi,  edition  under  the  title,  Literaturgeschichte 
des  deutschen  Volkes,  4  vols.,  Berlin,  1938-40).  Cf.  Berliner  Ro- 
mantik,  Berlin,  192 1,  and  the  theoretical  discussion,  "Die  Wissen- 
schaftslehre  der  Literaturgeschichte"  in  Euphorion,  XXI  (1914),  pp. 
1-63.  Cf.  also  H.  Gumbel,  "Dichtung  und  Volkstum,"  in  Philosofhie 
der  Lit  eraturwis sense  haft  (E.  Ermatinger,  ed.),  Berlin,  1930,  pp. 
43-9 — a  foggy  interpretation. 

CHAPTER    VI 

The  Establishing  and  Ordering  of  Evidence 

1.  Henry  Medwall,  Fulgens  and  Lucrece  (ed.  Seymour  de  Ricci),  New 
York,  1920  (Critical  ed.  by  F.  S.  Boas  and  A.  W.  Reed,  Oxford, 
1926);  The  Book  of  Margery  Kemfe,  1436  (Modern  Version  by 
W.  Butler-Bowden.  London,  1936.  The  original  text  is  being  edited 
by  Sanford  B.  Meech.  Vol.  I  was  published  by  the  Early  English 
Text  Society,  London,  1 940);  Christopher  Smart,  Rejoice  in  the 
Lamb  (ed.  W.  F.  Stead),  London,  1939. 

2.  Leslie  Hotson,  The  Death  of  Christopher  Marlowe,  London,  1925, 
Shakespeare  versus  Shallow,  Boston,  1 931;  The  Private  Papers  of 
James  Boswell  from  Malahide  Castle  (ed.  Geoffrey  Scott  and  F.  A. 
Pottle),  18  vols.,  Oxford,  1928-34;  Claude  C.  Abbott,  A  Catalogue 
of  Papers  Relating  to  Boswell,  Johnson  and  Sir  William  Forbes,  Ox- 
ford, 1936. 

3.  Cf.  the  sensible  advice  of  J.  M.  Osborn,  "The  Search  for  English 
Literary  Documents,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1939,  New  York, 
1940,  pp.  31-55. 


306  Notes  [pp.  50-53 

4.  Most  useful  for  students  of  English  are  J.  W.  Spargo,  A  Biblio- 
graphical Manual  for  Students,  Chicago,  1939  (Second  ed.,  1941); 
Arthur  G.  Kennedy,  A  Concise  Bibliography  for  Students  of  English, 
Second  ed.,  Stanford  University  Press,  1945. 

5.  E.g.,  W.  W.  Greg,  A  Bibliography  of  the  English  Printed  Drama  to 
the  Restoration,  Vol.  I,  London,  1939;  F.  R.  Johnson,  A  Critical 
Bibliography  of  the  Works  of  Edmund  Spenser  Pri?ited  before  1770, 
Baltimore,  1933;  Hugh  Macdonald,  John  Dry  den:  A  Bibliography  of 
Early  Editions  and  Drydeniana,  Oxford,  1939;  cf.  James  M.  Osborn, 
"Macdonald's  Bibliography  of  Dryden,"  Modern  Philology,  XXXIX 
(1942),  pp.  313-19;  R.  H.  Griffith,  Alexander  Pope:  A  Bibliography, 
2  parts,  Austin,  Texas,  1922-27. 

6.  R.  B.  McKerrow,  An  Introduction  to  Bibliography  for  Literary  Stu- 
dents, Oxford,  1927. 

7.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

8.  On  paleography  of  English  literary  documents,  see  Wolfgang  Keller, 
Angelsachsische  Paleographie,  2  vols.,  Berlin,  1 906  {Palaestra,  43, 
a  and  b).  On  Elizabethan  handwriting,  see  Muriel  St.  Clare  Byrne, 
"Elizabethan  Handwriting  for  Beginners,"  Review  of  English  Studies, 
I  (1925),  pp.  198-209;  Hilary  Jenkinson,  "Elizabethan  Handwrit- 
ings," Library,  4th  Series,  III  (1922),  pp.  1-34;  McKerrow,  loc.  cit. 
(for  Appendix  on  Elizabethan  handwriting) ;  Samuel  A.  Tannen- 
baum,  The  Handzvriting  of  the  Renaissance,  New  York,  1 930.  Tech- 
nical devices  of  investigating  MSS  (microscopes,  ultra-violet  rays, 
etc.)  are  described  in  R.  B.  Haselden,  Scientific  Aids  for  the  Study  of 
Manuscripts,  Oxford,  1935. 

9.  Finely  worked  out  pedigrees  are  to  be  found  in  such  books  as  R.  K. 
Root's  The  Textual  Tradition  of  Chaucer's  Troilus,  Chaucer  Society, 
London,  1916. 

10.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

11.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

12.  W.  S.  MacCormick  and  J.  Haseltine,  The  MSS  of  the  Canterbury 
Tales,  Oxford,  1933;  J.  M.  Manly,  The  Text  of  the  Canterbury 
Tales,  8  vols.,  Chicago,  1940;  R.  W.  Chambers  and  J.  H.  Grattan, 
"The  Text  of  Piers  Plowman:  Critical  Methods,"  Modem  Language 
Review,  XI  (1916),  pp.  257-75,  and  "The  Text  of  Piers  Plow77ian" 
ibid.,  XXVI  (1926),  pp.  1-5  1. 

13.  For  more  elaborate  distinctions  cf.  Kantorowicz,  quoted  in  bibliog- 
raphy, Section  I. 

14.  Cf.  Sculley  Bradley,  "The  Problem  of  a  Variorum  Edition  of  Whit- 
man's Leaves  of  Grass,''''  English  Institute  Antiual,   1041,  New  York, 


ft-  53S9]  Notes  307 

1942,  pp.   129-58;  A.  Pope,   The  Dunciad  (ed.  James  Sutherland), 
London,  1943. 
I  5.   Sigurd  B.  Hustvedt,  Ballad  Books  and  Ballad  Men,  Cambridge,  Massa- 
chusetts, 1930. 

16.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

17.  Shakespeare's  Hand  in  The  Play  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  Cambridge, 
1923  (contributions  by  A.  W.  Pollard,  W.  W.  Greg,  Sir  E.  M. 
Thompson,  J.  D.  Wilson,  and  R.  W.  Chambers) ;  S.  A.  Tannenbaum, 
The  Booke  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  New  York,  1927. 

18.  The  Tempest  (ed.  Sir  A.  Quiller-Couch  and  J.  D.  Wilson),  Cam- 
bridge, 1 92 1,  p.  xxx. 

19.  E.  K.  Chambers,  "The  Integrity  of  The  Tempest,"  Review  of  Eng- 
lish Studies,  I  (1925),  pp.  129-50;  S.  A.  Tannenbaum,  "How  Not 
to  Edit  Shakespeare:  A  Review,"  Philological  Quarterly,  X  (1931), 
pp.  97-137;  H.  T.  Price,  "Towards  a  Scientific  Method  of  Textual 
Criticism  in  the  Elizabethan  Drama,"  Journal  of  English  and  Ger- 
manic Philology,  XXXVI  (1937),  pp.  151-67  (actually  concerned 
with  Dover  Wilson,  Robertson,  etc.). 

20.  Michael  Bernays,  Zur  Kritik  und  Geschichte  des  Goetheschen  Textes, 
Munich,  1866,  was  the  beginning  of  "Goethe-philologie."  Cf.  also 
R.  W.  Chapman,  "The  Textual  Criticism  of  English  Classics,"  The 
Portrait  of  a  Scholar,  Oxford,  1922,  pp.  65-79. 

21.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III. 

22.  Michael  Bernays,  "Zur  Lehre  von  den  Zitaten  und  Noten,"  Schriften 
zur  Kritik  und  Liter  atur  geschichte,  Berlin,  1899,  Vol.  IV,  pp.  253- 
347;  Arthur  Friedman,  "Principles  of  Historical  Annotation  in  Criti- 
cal Editions  of  Modern  Texts,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1941,  New 
York,  1942,  pp.  115-28. 

23.  Edmond  Malone,  "An  Essay  on  the  Chronological  Order  of  Shake- 
speare's Plays,"  George  Steevens'  edition  of  Shakespeare's  Plays  (Sec- 
ond ed.  1788,  Vol.  I,  pp.  269-346)  was  the  first  successful  attempt. 
Metrical  tables  based  on  the  work  of  Fleay,  Furnivall,  and  Konig  in 
T.  M.  Parrott's  Shakespeare:  Twenty-three  Plays  and  the  Sonnets, 
New  York,  1938,  p.  94. 

24.  James  Hurdis,  Cursory  Remarks  upon  the  Arrangement  of  the  Plays 
of  Shakespeare,  London,  1792. 

25.  Wincenty  Lutoslawski,  The  Origin  and  Growth  of  Plato's  Logic  with 
an  Account  of  Plato's  Style  and  the  Chronology  of  his  Writings,  Lon- 
don, 1897;  for  comment  cf.  John  Burnet,  Platonism,  Berkeley,  1928, 
pp.  9-12. 

26.  Giles  Dawson,  "Authenticity  and  Attribution  of  Written  Matter," 
English  Institute  Annual,  1942,  New  York,  1943,  pp.  77-100 ;  G.  E. 


308  Notes  [-pp.  59-61 

Bentley,  "Authenticity  and  Attribution  of  the  Jacobean  and  Caroline 
Drama,"  ibid.,  pp.  101-118;  cf.  E.  H.  C.  Oliphant,  "Problems  of 
Authorship  in  Elizabethan  Dramatic  Literature,"  Modem  Philology, 
VIII  (1911),  pp.  4H-59- 

27.  August  Wilhelm  Schlegel,  "Anhang,  iiber  die  angeblich  Shakespeare'n 
unterschobenen  Stiicke,"  Uber  dramatische  Kunst  und  Literatur, 
Heidelberg,  1811,  Zweiter  Theil,  Zweite  Abtheilung,  pp.  229-42. 

28.  J.  M.  Robertson,  The  Shakespeare  Canon,  4  parts,  London,  1922-32; 
An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  the  Shakespeare  Canon,  London, 
1924;  E.  K.  Chambers,  "The  Disintegration  of  Shakespeare,"  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  British  Academy,  XI  (1925),  pp.  89-108  (reprinted 
in  Shakespearean  Gleanings,  Oxford,  1944,  pp.  1-21). 

29.  E.  N.  S.  Thompson,  "Elizabethan  Dramatic  Collaboration,"  Englische 
Studien,  XL  (1908),  pp.  30-46;  W.  J.  Lawrence,  "Early  Dramatic 
Collaboration,"  Pre-Restoration  Stage  Studies,  Cambridge,  Massa- 
chusetts, 1927;  E.  H.  C.  Oliphant,  "Collaboration  in  Elizabethan 
Drama:  Mr.  W.  J.  Lawrence's  Theory,"  Philological  Quarterly,  VIII 
(1929),  pp.  I-IO.  For  good  examples  of  discussions  on  Diderot  and 
Pascal  cf.  Andre  Morize,  Problems  and  Methods  of  Literary  History, 
Boston,  1922,  pp.  157-93. 

30.  E.  H.  C.  Oliphant,  The  Plays  of  Beaumont  and  Fletcher:  An  Attempt 
to  Determine  Their  Respective  Shares  and  the  Shares  of  Others,  New 
Haven,  1927;  "The  Authorship  of  The  Revenger's  Tragedy"  Studies 
in  Philology,  XXIII  (1926),  pp.   157-68. 

31.  New  Essays  by  Oliver  Goldsmith  (ed.  R.  S.  Crane),  Chicago,   1927. 

32.  G.  Udny  Yule,  The  Statistical  Study  of  Literary  Vocabulary,  Cam- 
bridge, 1944. 

33.  J.  S.  Smart,  James  Macpherson,  London,  1905;  G.  M.  Fraser,  "The 
Truth  about  Macpherson's  Ossian,"  Quarterly  Reviezv,  CCXLV 
(1925),  pp.  331-45;  W.  W.  Skeat  (ed.),  The  Poetical  Works  of 
Thomas  Chatterton  with  an  Essay  on  the  Rowley  Poems,  2  vols., 
London,  1871;  Thomas  Tyrwhitt,  Appendix  to  Poems  supposed  to 
have  been  written  .  .  .  by  Thomas  Rowley,  Second  ed.,  London, 
1778;  and  A  Vindication  of  the  Appendix  to  the  Poems  called 
Rowley's,  London,  1782;  Edmond  Malone,  Cursory  Observations  on 
the  Poems  attributed  to  Thomas  Rowley,  London,  1782;  Thomas 
Warton,  An  Enquiry  into  the  Authenticity  of  the  Poems  attributed  to 
Thomas  Rowley,  London,  1782;  J.  Mair,  The  Fourth  Forger,  Lon- 
don, 1938;  George  Chalmers,  An  Apology  for  the  Believers  in  the 
Shakespeare  Papers,  London,  1797. 

34.  Zoltan  Haraszti,  "The  Works  of  Hroswitha,"  More  Books,  XX 
(1945),  pp.  87-119,  pp.   139-73;  Edwin  H.  Zeydel,  "The  Authen- 


pp.  6i-*J3\  Notes  309 

ticity  of  Hroswitha's  Works,"  Modern  Language  Notes,  LXi  (1946), 
pp.  50-55;  Andre  Mazon,  Le  Slovo  d'lgor,  Paris,  1940;  Henri 
Gregoire,  Roman  Jakobson,  et  al.  (ed.),  La  Geste  du  Prince  Igor, 
New  York,  1948. 

35.  The  best  account  in  English  is  in  Paul  Selver's  Masaryk:  A  Biog- 
raphy, London,  1940. 

36.  John  Carter  and  Graham  Pollard,  An  Enquiry  into  the  Nature  of 
Certain  Nineteenth  Century  Pamphlets,  London,  1934;  Wilfred  Part- 
ington, Forging  Ahead:  The  True  Story  of  ...  T.  J.  Wise,  New 
York,  1939;  Letters  of  Thomas  J.  Wise  to  J.  H.  Wrenn  (ed.  Fannie 
E.  Ratchford),  New  York,  1944  (The  introduction  implicates  H. 
Buxton  Forman  and,  unconvincingly,  Edmund  Gosse.) 


CHAPTER    VII 

Literature  and  Biography 

1.  S.  T.  Coleridge,  in  a  letter  to  Thomas  Poole,  Feb.,  1797,  Letters,  ed. 
E.  H.  Coleridge,  London,  1895,  Vol.  I,  p.  4. 

2.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

3.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

4.  Georg  Brandes,  William  Shakes peare,  2  vols.,  Copenhagen,  1896 
(English  tr.,  2  vols.,  London,  1898);  Frank  Harris,  The  Man  Shake- 
speare, New  York,  1909. 

5.  C.  J.  Sisson,  The  Mythical  Sorrows  of  Shakespeare,  British  Academy 
Lecture,  1934;  E.  E.  Stoll,  uThe  Tempest,''''  Shakespeare  and  other 
Masters,  Cambridge,  Mass.,   1940,  pp.  281-316. 

6.  John  Keats,  Letter  to  Richard  Woodhouse,  October  27,  181 8,  Letters 
(ed.  H.  B.  Forman),  2nd  ed.,  Oxford,  1935,  p.  228.  Cf.  W.  J.  Bate, 
Negative  Capability :  The  Intuitive  Approach  in  Keats,  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  1939;  T.  S.  Eliot,  "Tradition  and  Individual  Talent,"  The 
Sacred  Wood,  London,  1920,  pp.  42-53. 

7.  Brandes,  op.  cit.,  p.  425.  H.  Kingsmill,  Matthew  Arnold,  London, 
1928,  pp.   147-9- 

8.  Ramon  Fernandez,  "L'Autobiographie  et  le  Roman:  l'Exemple  de 
Stendhal,"  Messages,  Paris,  1926,  pp.  78-109;  George  W.  Meyer, 
Wordsworth's  Formative  Years,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich.,  1943. 

9.  Wilhelm  Dilthey,  Das  Erlebnis  und  die  Dichtung,  Leipzig,  1 907; 
Friedrich  Gundolf,  Goethe,  Berlin,  1916  (a  distinction  is  made  be- 
tween Urerlebnis  and  Bil  dungs  erlebnis) . 

10.  V.  Moore,  The  Life  and  Eager  Death  of  Emily  Bronte,  London, 
1936;  Edith  E.  Kinsley,  Pattern  for  Genius,  New  York,  1939  (a 
biography  piecing  together  quotations  from  the  Brontes'  novels  with 


310  Notes  [pp.  74-78 

real  names  replacing  the  fictional)  ;  Romer  Wilson,  The  Life  and  Pri- 
vate History  of  Emily  Jane  Bronte,   New  York,    1928    (Wuthering 
Heights  is  treated  as  straight  autobiography). 
1 1.  The  example  is  taken  from  C.  B.  Tinker,  The  Good  Estate  of  Poetry, 
Boston,  1929,  p.  30. 


CHAPTER    VIII 

Literature  and  Psychology 

Cf.  Alfred  Adler,  Study  of  Organ  Inferiority  and  Its  Psychical  Com- 
pensation, 1907  (Engl,  tr.j  1917);  Wayland  F.  Vaughan,  "The  Psy- 
chology of  Compensation,"  Psych.  Review,  XXXIII  (1926),  pp. 
467-79;  Edmund  Wilson,  The  Wound  and  the  Bow,  New  York, 
194.1;  also  L.  MacNeice,  Modern  Poetry  (London,  1938),  p.  76; 
L.  Trilling,  "Art  and  Neurosis,"  Partisan  Review,  XII   (1945),  pp. 

4-1-9- 

S.  Freud,  "The  Relation  of  the  Poet  to  Day-Dreaming, "  Collected 
Papers  (London,  1924),  IV,  pp.  173-83;  "Dostoevski  and  Parricide," 
Partisan  Review,  XIV  (1945),  pp.  530-44.  On  Freud  and  literary 
theory,  cf.:  L.  Trilling,  "The  Legacy  of  Freud:  Literary  and 
Aesthetic,"  Kenyon  Review,  II  (1940),  pp.  152-73;  Herbert  J. 
Muller,  "Psychoanalysis,"  Science  and  Criticism,  New  Haven,  1943, 
pp.  143-57;  Frederick  J.  Hoffman,  Freudianis7n  and  the  Literary 
Mind,  Baton  Rouge,  1945;  Kenneth  Burke,  "Freud  and  the 
Analysis  of  Poetry,"  Philosophy  of  Literary  Form,  Baton  Rouge, 
1941,  pp.  258-92;  S.  E.  Hyman,  "The  Psychoanalytical  Criticism  of 
Literature,"  Western  Review,  XII  (1947-8),  pp.  106-15,  and  The 
Armed  Vision,  New  York,  1948,  pp.  142-67. 

W.  H.  Auden,  Letters  from  Iceland,  London,  1937,  p.  193; 
cf.  L.  MacNeice,  Modern  Poetry,  London,  1938,  pp.  25-6;  Karen 
Horney,  The  Neurotic  Personality  of  our  Time,  New  York,  1937; 
Erich  Fromm,  Escape  from  Freedom,  New  York,  194 1,  and  Man 
for  Himself,  New  York,  1947. 

Cf.  W.  Silz,  "Otto  Ludwig  and  the  Process  of  Poetic  Creation," 
PMLA,  LX  (1945),  pp.  860-78,  which  reproduces  most  of  the  topics 
in  author-psychology  studied  in  recent  German  research;  and  Erich 
Jaensch,  Eidetic  Imagery  and  Typological  Methods  of  Investigation, 
London,  1930;  also  "Psychological  and  Psychophysical  Investigations 
of  Types  .  .  ."  in  Feelings  and  E?notio?is,  Worcester,  Mass.,    1928, 

P-  355  ff- 

On  synaesthesia,  cf.  Ottokar  Fischer,  "Uber  Verbindung  von   Farbe 

und    Klang:    Eine    literar-psychologische    Untersuchung,"   Zeitschrift 


ff.  78-80]  Notes  311 

fiir  Asthetik,  II  (1907),  pp.  501-34;  Albert  Wellek,  "Das  Doppel- 
empfinden  in  der  Geistesgeschichte,"  Zeitschrift  filr  Asthetik,  XXIII 
(1929),  pp.  14-42;  "Renaissance-  und  Barock-synasthesie,"  Deutsche 
Vierteljahrschrift  filr  Literaturwissenschaft,  IX  (1931),  pp.  534-84; 
E.  v.  Erhardt-Siebold,  "Harmony  of  the  Senses  in  English,  German 
and  French  Romanticism,"  PMLA,  XLVII  (1932),  pp.  577-92; 
W.  Silz,  "Heine's  Synesthesia,"  PMLA,  LVII  (1942),  pp.  469-88; 
S.  de  Ullman,  "Romanticism  and  Synaesthesia,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945), 
pp.  811-27;  A.  G.  Engstrom,  "In  Defense  of  Synaesthesia  in  Litera- 
ture," Philological  Quarterly,  XXV  (1946),  pp.  1-19. 

6.  Cf.  Richard  Chase,  "The  Sense  of  the  Present,"  Kenyon  Review, 
VII  (1945),  p.  218  ft.  The  quotations  from  T.  S.  Eliot's  The  Use  of 
Poetry  occur  on  pp.  118-9,  155,  and  148  and  n.  The  essay  to  which 
Eliot  refers,  "Le  Symbolisme  et  l'ame  primitive,"  appeared  in  the 
Revue  de  litterature  compare  e,  XII  (1932),  356-86.  Cf.  also  Emile 
Cailliet's  Symbolism  et  ames  -primitives,  Paris,  1 936,  the  "conclusion" 
of  which  reports  a  conversation  with  Eliot. 

7.  Carl  J.  Jung,  "On  the  Relation  of  Analytical  Psychology  to  Poetic 
Art,"  Contributions  to  Analytical  Psychology,  London,  1928,  and 
Psychological  Types  (tr.  H.  G.  Baynes),  London,  1926;  and  cf. 
J.  Jacobi,  The  Psychology  of  Jung  (tr.  Bash),  New  Haven,  1943. 
British  philosophers,  psychologists,  and  aestheticians  publicly  indebted 
to  Jung  include  John  M.  Thorburn,  Art  and  the  Unconscious,  1925; 
Maud  Bodkin,  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry:  Psychological  Studies 
of  Imagination,  1934;  Herbert  Read,  "Myth,  Dream,  and  Poem," 
transition,  No.  27  (1928),  p.  176  ff. ;  H.  G.  Baynes,  Mythology  of 
the  Soul,  London,  1940;  M.  Esther  Harding,  Women's  Mysteries, 
London,  1935. 

8.  On  character  typologies,  cf.,  for  a  historical  account,  A.  A.  Roback, 
The  Psychology  of  Character  with  a  Survey  of  Temperament,  New 
York,  1928;  Eduard  Spranger,  Types  of  Men-:  the  Psychology  .  .  . 
of  Personality  (tr.  Pigors),  Halle,  1928;  Ernst  Kretschmer,  Physique 
and  Character  .  .  .  (tr.  Sprott),  London,  1925;  The  Psychology  of 
Men  of  Genius  (tr.  Cattell),  London,  193 1.  On  the  "maker"  and 
the  "possessed,"  cf.  W.  H.  Auden,  "Psychology  and  Art,"  The  Arts 
Today  (ed.  G.  Grigson),  London,  1935,  pp.  I-2I. 

9.  F.  W.  Nietzsche,  Die  Geburt  der  Tragodie,  1872;  Th.  Ribot,  Essai 
sur  P  imagination  creatrice,  Paris,  1900  (tr.  Baron,  London,  1906); 
Liviu  Rusu,  Essai  sur  la  creation  artistique,  Paris,  1935.  The 
"daemonic"  comes  from  Goethe  (first  used  in  Urworte,  1 817)  and 
has  been   a  prominent  concept   in  modern   German   theory;   cf.   M. 


312  Notes  [ff.  80-86 

Schiitze,  Academic  Illusions  in  the  Field  of  Letters,  Chicago,   1933, 
p.  91  ff. 

10.  C.  S.  Lewis,  The  Personal  Heresy  .  .  .  ,  London,  1939,  pp.  22-3; 
W.  Dilthey,  Das  Erlebnis  und  die  Dichtung  .  .  .  ,  Leipzig,  1906; 
cf.  Schiitze,  of.  cit.,  p.  96  ff. 

11.  Norah  Chadwick,  Poetry  and  Prophecy,  Cambridge,  1942  (on  Sha- 
manism); Ribot,  Creative  Imagination  (tr.,  London,   1906),  p.   51. 

12.  Elizabeth  Schneider,  "The  'Dream'  of  Kubla  Khan,"  PMLA,  LX 
(1945),  pp.  784-801.  Cf.  also  Jeanette  Marks,  Genius  and  Disaster: 
Studies  in  Drugs  and  Genius,  New  York,  1925. 

13.  Aelfrida  Tillyard,  Spiritual  Exercises  and  their  Results  .  .  .  ,  London, 
1927;  R.  van  Gelder,  Writers  and  Writing,  New  York,  1946;  Samuel 
Johnson,  Lives  of  the  Poets,  "Milton." 

14.  On  Hemingway  and  the  typewriter:  R.  G.  Berkelman,  "How  to  Put 
Words  on  Paper,"  Saturday  Review  of  Literature,  Dec.  29,  1945.  On 
dictation  and  style:  Theodora  Bosanquet,  Henry  James  at  Work  (Ho- 
garth Essays),  London,  1924. 

15.  Thus  German  aestheticians  chiefly  cite  Goethe  and  Otto  Ludwig;  the 
French,  Flaubert  (the  correspondence)  and  Valery;  American  critics, 
Henry  James  (the  prefaces  to  the  New  York  edition)  and  Eliot. 

.  An  excellent  specimen  of  the  French  view  is  Valery  on  Poe  (P. 
Valery,  "Situation  de  Baudelaire,"  Variete  II  [Paris,  1937],  pp. 
155-60). 

16.  On  signs  and  symbols,  cf.  S.  K.  Langer,  Philosophy  in  a  New  Key, 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  1942,  pp.  53-78,  and  Helmut  Hatzfeld,  "The 
Language  of  the  Poet,"  Studies  in  Philology,  XLIII  (1946),  pp. 
93-120. 

17.  J.  L.  Lowes,  The  Road  to  Xanadu:  A  Study  in  the  Ways  of  the 
Imagination,  Boston,  1927. 

18.  W.  Dibelius,  Charles  Dickens,  Leipzig,  1926,  pp.  347-73. 

19.  Albert  R.  Chandler,  Beauty  and  Human  Nature:  Ele??ients  of  Psy- 
chological Aesthetics,  New  York,  1934,  p.  328;  A.  Thibaudet,  Gus- 
tave  Flaubert,  Paris,  1935,  pp.  93-102;  Frederick  H.  Prescott,  "The 
Formation  of  Imaginary  Characters,"  The  Poetic  Mind,  New  York, 
1922,  p.  187  ff. ;  A.  H.  Nethercot,  "Oscar  Wilde  on  his  Subdividing 
Himself,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945),  pp.  616-7. 

20.  The  Letters  of  John  Keats  (ed.  H.  B.  Forman),  2nd  ed.,  New  York, 
1935,  p.  228.  The  textual  emendation  followed  is  recommended  in 
Forman's  note. 

21.  A.  Feuillerat,  Comment  Proust  a  co?npose  son  roman,  New  Haven, 
1934;  cf.  also  the  essays  by  Karl  Shapiro  and  Rudolf  Arnheim  in 
Poets  at  Work  (ed.  C.  D.  Abbott),  New  York,  1948. 


ff.  86-92]  Notes  313 

22.  Cf.  James  H.  Smith,  The  Reading  of  Poetry,  Boston,  1939  (edi- 
torially invented  variants  take  the  place  of  auctorially  discarded  ones). 

23.  Lily  B.  Campbell,  Shakespeare's  Tragic  Heroes:  Slaves  of  Passion, 
Cambridge,  1930;  Oscar  J.  Campbell,  "What  is  the  Matter  with 
Hamlet?",  Yale  Review,  XXXI I  (1942),  pp.  309-22;  Henri  Dela- 
croix, La  Psychologie  de  Stendhal,  Paris,  191 8;  F.  J.  Hoffman, 
Freudianism  and  the  Literary  Mind,  Baton  Rouge,  1945,  pp.  256-88. 

24.  Cf.  L.  C.  T.  Forest,  "A  Caveat  for  Critics  against  Invoking  Eliza- 
bethan Psychology,"  PMLA,  LXI  (1946),  pp.  651-72;  also  Lawrence 
Bowling,  Dramatizing  the  Mind,  Iowa  doctoral  dissertation,  1946. 

25.  Cf.  the  writings  of  E.  E.  Stoll,  passim,  especially  From  Shakesfeare 
to  Joyce,  New  York,  1944,  p.  70  ff. 


CHAPTER    IX 

Literature  and  Society 

1.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

2.  Cf.  Morris  R.  Cohen's  excellent  discussion,  "American  Literary 
Criticism  and  Economic  Forces,"  Journal  of  the  History  of  Ideas,  I 
(1940),  pp.  369-74- 

3.  On  De  Bonald,  cf.  Horatio  Smith,  "Relativism  in  Bonald's  Literary 
Doctrine,"  Modern  Philology,  XXXII  (1934),  pp.  193-2 10 ;  B. 
Croce,  "La  Letteratura  come  'espressione  della  societa,'  "  Problemi  di 
Estetica,  Bari,  1910,  pp.  56-60. 

4.  Cf.,  e.g.,  Havelock  Ellis,  A  Study  of  British  Genius,  London,  1904 
(revised  ed.,  Boston,  1926);  Edwin  L.  Clarke,  American  Men  of 
Letters:  Their  Nature  and  Nurture,  New  York,  191 6  ("Columbia 
Studies  in  History,  Economics,  and  Public  Law,"  Vol.  72)  ;  A.  Odin, 
Genese  des  grands  hommes,  2  vols.,  Paris,  1895. 

5.  Sakulin,  N.  P.,  Die  russische  Literatur,  Wildpark-Potsdam,  1927  (in 
Oskar  Walzel's  Handbuch  der  Literaturwissenschaft). 

6.  E.g.,  D.  Blagoy,  Sotsiologiya  tvorchestva  Pushkina  (The  Sociology  of 
Pushkin's  Creation),  Moscow,    193 1. 

7.  Herbert  Schoeffler,  Protestantismus  und  Literatur,  Leipzig,  1922. 
Questions  of  social  provenience  are  obviously  closely  related  to  ques- 
tions of  early  impressions,  of  the  early  physical  and  social  milieu  of 
a  writer.  As  Schoeffler  has  pointed  out,  the  sons  of  country  clergymen 
did  much  to  create  the  British  pre-Romantic  literature  and  taste  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  Having  lived  in  the  country,  almost  literally  in 
the  churchyard,  they  may  well  have  been  predisposed  to  a  taste  for 
landscape  and  graveyard  poetry,  for  ruminations  on  death  and  im- 
mortality. 


3*4  Notes  [ff.  92-gj 

8.  L.  C.  Knights,  Drama  and  Society  in  the  Age  of  Jonson,  London, 

1937- 

9.  Lily  Campbell,  Shakespeare's  Histories:  Mirrors  of  Elizabethan  Policy, 
San  Marino,  1947;  Sir  Charles  Firth,  "The  Political  Significance  of 
Swift's  Gulliver 's  Travels"  Essays:  Historical  and  Literary,  Oxford, 
1938,  pp.  210-241. 

10.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

1 1 .  Prosper  de  Barante,  De  la  litterature  francaise  fendant  le  dix-huitieme 
siecle,  Paris,  3rd  ed.,  1822,  p.  v.  The  preface  is  not  to  be  found  in 
the  first  edition,  of  1809.  Barante's  theory  is  brilliantly  applied  by 
Harry  Levin  in  "Literature  as  an  Institution,"  Accent,  VI  (1946), 
pp.  159-68.  Reprinted  in  Criticism  (ed.  Schorer,  Miles,  McKenzie), 
New  York,  1948,  pp.  546-53. 

12.  Ashley  H.  Thorndike,  Literature  in  a  Changing  Age,  New  York, 
1921,  p.  36. 

13.  Q.  D.  Leavis,  Fiction  and  the  Reading  Public,  London,  1932. 

14.  Some  work  on  these  questions:  Alfred  A.  Harbage,  Shakes  feare'  s  Au- 
dience, New  York,  1941;  R.  J.  Allen,  The  Clubs  of  Augustan 
London,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1933;  Chauncey  B.  Tinker,  The  Salon 
and  English  Letters,  New  York,  191 5;  Albert  Parry,  Garrets  and 
Pretenders:  a  History  of  Bohemianism  in  America,  New  York,  1933. 
There  is  a  whole  series  of  studies  on  periodicals,  e.g.:  Walter  Graham, 
English  Literary  Periodicals,  New  York,  1931;  Edmund  Blunden, 
Leigh  Hunt's  Exajniner  Examined,  London,  19285  William  Beach 
Thomas,  The  Story  of  the  Spectator,  New  York,  1928;  George  L. 
Nesbitt,  Benthamite  Reviezving:  Twelve  Years  of  the  Westminster 
Review,  1824-36,  New  York,  1934;  Miriam  M.  H.  Thrall,  Rebel- 
lious Eraser's,  New  York,  1934;  Edwin  M.  Everett,  The  Party  of 
Humanity:  The  Fortnightly  Review  and  its  Contributors,  1865-74, 
Chapel  Hill,  1939;  Leslie  A.  Marchand,  The  Athenaeum,  Chapel 
Hill,  1 941;  Francis  E.  Mineka,  The  Dissidence  of  Dissent:  The 
Monthly  Repository,  1806-1838,  Chapel  Hill,  1944;  Frank  L.  Mott, 
A  History  of  American  Magazines,  3  vols.,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1930- 
38;  Frederick  J.  Hoffman,  C.  Allen  and  C.  F.  Ulrich,  The  Little 
Magazine:  A  History  aitd  a  Bibliography,  Princeton,  1946. 

15.  Cf.  Grace  Overmyer,  Government  and  the  Arts,  New  York,  1939. 
On  Russia,  cf.  the  writings  of  Freeman,  Max  Eastman,  W.  Frank,  etc. 

16.  Georgi  V.  Plekhanov,  Art  and  Society,  New  York,  1936,  pp.  43,  63, 
etc.  A  translation  of  "Isskusstvo  i  obschestvennaya  zhizn,"  Sozre- 
mennik  II  (1912),  Part  XI,  pp.  291-314,  Part  XII,  pp.  108-23,  and 
III  (191 3),  Part  I,  pp.  130-61.  Chiefly  ideological  discussions  are: 
A.  Cassagne,  La  Theorie  de  Part  four  Part  en  France,  Paris,   1906; 


ff.  97-102]  Notes  315 

Rose  F.  Egan,  The  Genesis  of  the  Theory  of  Art  for  Art's  Sake  in 
Germany  and  England,  2  parts,  Northampton,  1 92 1-4;  Louise  Rosen- 
blatt, Uidee  de  fart  'pour  Part  dans  la  litter ature  anglaise,  Paris,  1 931. 

1 7.  L.  L.  Schucking,  Die  Soziologie  der  literarischen  Geschmacksbildung, 
Munich.,  1923  (second  ed.,  Leipzig,  193 1 .  English  tr.  The  Sociology 
of  Literary  Taste,  London,  1 941);  cf.  Schucking,  Die  Familie  im 
Puritanismus,  Leipzig,  1929. 

18.  Cf.  T.  A.  Jackson,  Charles  Dickens,  The  Progress  of  a  Radical,  Lon- 
don,  1937. 

19.  Cf.  Mrs.  Leavis,  quoted  in  note  13;  Link,  K.  C,  and  Hopf,  H., 
People  and  Books,  New  York,  1946;  F.  Baldensperger,  La  Litter  ature: 
creation,  succes,  duree,  Paris,  191 3;  P.  Stapfer,  Des  Reputations 
litteraires,  Paris,  1893;  Gaston  Rageot,  Le  Succes:  Auteurs  et  public. 
Essai  de  critique  sociologique,  Paris,  1906;  Emile  Hennequin,  La 
critique  scientifique,  Paris,  1882.  The  social  effects  of  another  art,  the 
moving  pictures,  are  judiciously  studied  by  Mortimer  Adler  in  Art 
and  Prudence,  New  York,  1937.  A  brilliant  dialectical  scheme  of 
"aesthetic  function,  norm  and  value  as  social  facts"  is  to  be  found  in 
Jan  Mukarovsky,  Estetickd  funkce,  norma  a  hodnota  jako  socidlni  fakt, 
Prague,  1936. 

20.  Thomas  Warton,  History  of  English  Poetry,  London,  1774,  Vol.  I, 
p.  I. 

21.  E.  Kohn-Bramstedt,  Aristocracy  and  the  Middle  Classes  in  Germany, 
London,  1937,  p.  4. 

22.  Cf.  Andre  Monglond,  Le  Heros  preromantique,  Le  Preromantisme 
frangais,  Vol.  I,  Grenoble,  1930;  R.  P.  Utter  and  G.  B.  Needham, 
Pamela's  Daughters,  New  York,  1937.  Also  the  writings  of  E.  E.  Stoll, 
e.g.,  "Heroes  and  Villains:  Shakespeare,  Middleton,  Byron,  Dickens," 
in  From  Shakespeare  to  Joyce,  Garden  City,  1944,  pp.  307-27. 

23.  Charles  Lamb,  "On  the  Artificial  Comedy,"  Essays  of  Elia,  182 1; 
T.  B.  Macaulay,  "The  Dramatic  Works  of  Wycherley,  Congreve,  Van- 
brugh,  and  Farquhar,"  Edinburgh  Review,  LXII  (1841);  J.  Palmer, 
The  Comedy  of  Manners,  London,  1 91 3;  K.  M.  Lynch,  The  Social 
Mode  of  Restoration  Comedy,  New  York,  1926. 

24.  E.  E.  Stoll,  "Literature  and  Life,"  Shakespeare  Studies,  New  York, 
1927,  and  several  papers  in  Prom  Shakespeare  to  Joyce,  Garden  City, 
1944. 

25.  John  Maynard  Keynes,  A  Treatise  on  Money,  New  York,  1930,  Vol. 
II,  p.  154. 

26.  Lunacharsky,  quoted  by  L.  C.  Knights,  loc.  cit.,  p.  10,  from  The 
Listener,  December  27,  1934. 


316  Notes  [pp.  103-104 

27.  Karl  Marx,  Critique  of  Political  Economy  (tr.  N.  I.  Stone),  Chi- 
cago, 1904,  p.  310.  This  passage  appears  to  give  up  the  Marxist  posi- 
tion altogether.  There  are  other  cautious  statements,  e.g.,  Engels' 
letter  to  Starkenburg,  January  25,  1894.  "Political,  legal,  philo- 
sophical, religious,  literary,  artistic,  etc.,  development  is  grounded 
upon  economic  development.  But  all  of  them  react,  conjointly  and 
separately,  one  upon  another,  and  upon  the  economic  foundation." 
(Marx-Engels,  Selected  Works,  Vol.  I,  p.  391.)  In  a  letter  to  Joseph 
Bloch,  September  21,  1 890,  Engels  admits  that  he  and  Marx  had  over- 
emphasized the  economic  factor  and  understated  the  role  of  reciprocal 
interaction;  and,  in  a  letter  to  Mehring,  July  14,  1893,  he  says  that 
they  had  "neglected"  the  formal  side — the  way  in  which  ideas  de- 
velop. (Cf.  Marx-Engels,  Selected  Works,  Vol.  I,  pp.  383,  390.) 

28.  From  Die  Deutsche  Ideologic,  in  Karl  Marx  and  F.  Engels,  Historisch- 
kritische   Gesamtausgabe   (ed.   V.   Adoratskij),    Berlin,    1932,   Vol.   V, 

PP-  21,  373- 

29.  A.   A.    Smirnov,   Shakes feare:   A    Marxist  Interpretation,   New   York, 

1936,  p.  93- 

30.  Max  Scheler,  "Probleme  einer  Soziologie  des  Wissens,"  Versuch  zu 
einer  Soziologie  des  Wissens  (ed.  Max  Scheler),  Munich  and  Leipzig, 
1924,  Vol.  I,  pp.  1-146,  and  "Probleme  einer  Soziologie  des  Wissens," 
Die  Wissens formen  und  die  Gesellschaft,  Leipzig,  1926,  pp.  1-226; 
Karl  Mannheim,  Ideology  and  Utofia  (tr.  L.  Wirth  and  Z.  Shils), 
London,  1936.  Some  discussions  are:  H.  Otto  Dahlke,  "The  Sociology 
of  Knowledge,"  in  H.  E.  Barnes,  Howard  Becker  and  F.  B.  Becker, 
Contemporary  Social  Theory,  New  York,  1940,  pp.  64-99;  Robert  K. 
Merton,  "The  Sociology  of  Knowledge,"  Twentieth  Cefitury  So- 
ciology (ed.  Georges  Gurvitch  and  Wilbert  E.  Moore),  New  York, 
1945,  pp.  366-405;  Gerard  L.  De  Gre,  Society  and  Ideology:  an  In- 
quiry into  the  Sociology  of  Knowledge,  New  York,  1943;  Ernst 
Gruenwald,  Das  Problem  der  Soziologie  des  Wissens,  Vienna,  1934. 
Thelma  Z.  Lavine,  "Naturalism  and  the  Sociological  Analysis  of 
Knowledge,"  Naturalism  and  the  Human  Spirit  (ed.  Yervant  H. 
Krikorian),  New  York,  1944,  pp.  183-209,  tries  to  obviate  criticism 
of  the  method  by  distinguishing  between  the  validity  of  a  proposition 
and  the  validation  process  of  which  only  the  last  is  the  object  of 
sociological  interest.  A  rather  timid  application  to  literature  is  pro- 
posed in  Alexander  C.  Kern,  "The  Sociology  of  Knowledge  in  the 
Study  of  Literature,"  Sewanee  Reznew,  L  (1942),  pp.  505-14. 

31.  Max  Weber,  Gesammelte  Aufsatze  zur  Religionssoziologie,  3  vols., 
Tubingen,  1920-21  (partially  translated  as  The  Protestant  Ethics  and 
the  Spirit  of  Capitalism,  London,    1930);   R.  H.  Tawney,  Religion 


pp.  104-108]  Notes  317 

and  the  Rise  of  Capitalism,  London,   1926    (new  ed.  with  Preface, 
1937);  Joachim  Wach,   The  Sociology  of  Religion,  Chicago,    1944. 

32.  Cf.  the  criticism  of  Pitirim  A.  Sorokin,  Contemporary  Sociological 
Theories,  New  York,  1928,  p.  710. 

33.  P.  A.  Sorokin,  Fluctuations  of  Forms  of  Art,  Social  and.  Cultural 
Dynamics,  Vol.  I,  New  York,  1937,  especially  Chapter  I. 

34.  Edwin  Berry  Burgum,  "Literary  Form:  Social  Forces  and  Innova- 
tions," Sewanee  Review,  XLIX  (1941),  pp.  325-338  (reprinted  in 
The  Novel  and  the  World's  Dilemma,  New  York,  1947). 

35.  Fritz  Briiggemann,  "Der  Kampf  urn  die  biirgerliche  Welt-  und  Leb- 
ensauffassung  in  der  deutschen  Literatur  des  18.  Jahrhunderts," 
Deutsche  Vierteljahrschrift  fur  Literaturzvis  sense  haft  und  Geistes- 
geschichte,  III  (1925),  pp.  94-127. 

36.  Erich  Auerbach,  Mimesis:  Dargestellte  Wirklichkeit  in  der  abend- 
landischen  Literatur,  Bern,  1946,  passim,  esp.  pp.  76,  94,  494-5. 

37.  Karl  Biicher,  Arbeit  und  Rhythmus,  Leipzig,  1896;  J.  E.  Harrison, 
Ancient  Art  and  Ritual,  New  York,  191 3  ;  Themis,  Cambridge,  191 2; 
George  Thomson,  Aeschylus  and  Athens,  A  Study  in  the  Social  Origins 
of  the  Drama,  London,  1941,  and  Marxism  and  Poetry,  London,  1945 
(a  small  pamphlet  of  great  interest,  with  application  to  Irish  mate- 
rials);  Christopher  Caudwell,  Illusion  and  Reality,  London,  1937; 
Kenneth  Burke,  Attitudes  toward  History,  New  York,  1937;  Marett, 
Robert  R.  (ed.),  Anthropology  and  the  Classics,  Oxford,  1908. 

chapter  x 
Literature  and  Ideas 

1.  Hermann  Ulrici,  Uber  Shakespeares  dramatische  Kunst,   1839. 

2.  George  Boas,  Philosophy  and  Poetry,  Wheaton  College,  Mass.,  1932, 

P-  9- 

3.  T.  S.  Eliot,  Selected  Essays,  New  York,  1932,  pp.  11 5-6. 

4.  E.g.,  "God's  in  his  Heaven;  all's  right  with  the  world"  is  an  asser- 
tion that  God  has  necessarily  created  the  best  of  all  possible  worlds. 
"On  earth  the  broken  arch;  in  heaven,  a  perfect  round"  is  the  argu- 
ment from  the  limited  to  the  infinite,  from  the  awareness  of  incom- 
pletion  to  the  possibility  of  completion,  etc. 

5.  The  main  theoretical  pronouncements  are  the  introduction  by  A.  O. 
Lovejoy  to  The  Great  Chain  of  Being,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1936,  pp. 
3-23,  and  "The  Historiography  of  Ideas,"  Proceedings  of  the  Ameri- 
can Philosophical  Society,  LXXVII  (1937-8),  pp.  529-43.  Reprinted 
in  Essays  in  the  History  of  Ideas,  Baltimore,  1948,  pp.  1-1 3.  Cf.  also 
Marjorie  Nicolson,  "The  History  of  Literature  and  the  History  of 


3 1 8  Notes  [pp.   iog-113 

Thought,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1939  (New  York,  1940),  pp. 
56-89,  and  A.  O.  Lovejoy,  "Reflections  on  the  History  of  Ideas," 
Journal  of  the  History  of  Ideas,  I  (1940),  pp.  1-23. 

6.  Cf.  bibliography. 

7.  Leo  Spitzer,  "Milieu  and  Ambiance:  An  Essay  in  Historical  Seman- 
tics," Philosophy  and  Phenomenological  Research,  III  (1942),  pp. 
1-42,  pp.  169-218.  Reprinted  in  Essays  in  Historical  Semantics,  New 
York,  1948,  pp.  179-316;  "Classical  and  Christian  Ideas  of  World 
Harmony:  Prolegomena  to  an  Interpretation  of  the  Word  'Stim- 
mung,'  "  Traditio:  Studies  in  Ancient  and  Medieval  History,  Thought 
and  Religion,  II  (1944),  pp.  409-464,  and  III  (1945),  pp.  307-364. 

8.  fitienne  Henri  Gilson,  Les  ldees  et  les  Lettres,  Paris,  1932. 

9.  Paul  Hazard,  La  Crise  de  la  conscience  europeenne,  3  vols.,  Paris, 
1934;  La  Pensee  europeenne  au  XVIIIe  siecle  de  Montesquieu  a 
Lessing,  3  vols.,  Paris,  1946. 

10.  M.  O.  Gershenzon,  Mudrost  Pushkina  (Pushkin's  Wisdom),  Moscow, 
1919. 

11.  For  "metaphysical"  studies  of  Dostoevsky,  cf.  Nikolay  Berdayev, 
Mirosozertsanie  Dostoevskogo  (Dostoevsky's  World-view),  Prague, 
1923  (English  translation  from  French,  New  York,  1934);  Vyache- 
slav  Ivanov,  "Dostoevski  i  roman-tragediya,"  Borozdy  i  mezhi,  Mos- 
cow, 1 916  (German  tr.  as  Dostojewski  und  die  Romantragodie,  Leip- 
zig, 1922) ;  D.  Merezhkovsky,  Tolstoi  i  Dostoevski,  2  vols.,  St.  Peters- 
burg, 191 2  (incomplete  English  translation  as  Tolstoi  as  Man  and 
Artist,  with  an  Essay  on  Dostoevski,  New  York,  1902);  V.  Rozanov, 
Legenda  o  Velikom  inkvizitore,  Berlin,  1924;  Leo  Shestov,  Dosto- 
jewski und  Nietzsche,  Philosophie  der  Tragodie  (German  tr.,  Berlin, 
1 931),  and  On  Job's  Balances,  London,  1932;  A.  L.  Volynsky, 
Tsarstvo  Karamazovych,  St.  Petersburg,  1901,  and  Dostoevsky,  St. 
Petersburg,  1 907. 

12.  Hermann  Glockner,  "Philosophie  und  Dichtung:  Typen  ihrer  Wech- 
selwirkung  von  den  Griechen  bis  auf  Hegel,"  Zeitschrift  fiir  As- 
thetik,  XV  (1920-21),  pp.  187-204. 

13.  Cf.  Rene  Wellek,  "Literary  Criticism  and  Philosophy:  A  Note  on 
Revaluation"  Scrutiny,  V  (1937),  pp.  375-383,  and  F.  R.  Leavis, 
"Literary  Criticism  and  Philosophy:  A  Reply."  Ibid.,  VI  (1937),  pp. 
59-70. 

14.  Rudolf  Unger,  Philosophische  Probleme  in  der  ?ieueren  Literaturwis- 
senschaft,  Munich,  1908;  Weltanschauung  und  Dichtung,  Zurich, 
191  j;  Literaturgeschichte  als  Problemgeschichte,  Berlin,  1924;  "Lit- 
eraturgeschichte   und   Geistesgeschichte,"   Deutsche    Vierteljahrschrift 


ff.  1 1 3-1 1 6]  Notes  319 

fiir  Literaturwissenschaft  und  Geistesgeschichte,  IV  (1925),  pp.  177- 
92.  All  the  foregoing  papers  are  collected  in  Aufs'dtze  zur  Prinzipien- 
lehre  der  Literaturgeschichte,  2  vols.,  Berlin,  1929. 

15.  Rudolf  Unger,  Herder,  Novalis,  Kleist:  Studien  ilber  die  Entwicklung 
des  T odes-problem,  Frankfurt,  1922;  Walter  Rehm,  Der  Todesgedanke 
in  der  deutschen  Dichtung,  Halle,  1928;  Paul  Kluckhohn,  Die  Auf- 
fassung  der  Liebe  in  der  Literatur  des  achtzehnten  Jahrhunderts  und 
in  der  Romantik,  Halle,  1922. 

16.  Mario  Praz,  La  Came,  la  morte  e  il  diavolo  nella  letteratura  ro- 
mantica,  Milano,  1 930  (English  tr.  by  Angus  Davidson,  The  Romantic 
Agony,  London,  1933). 

17.  C.  S.  Lewis,  The  Allegory  of  Love,  Oxford,  1936;  Theodore  Spencer, 
Death  and  Elizabethan  Tragedy,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1936. 

18.  Hoxie  Neale  Fairchild,  Religious  Trends  in  English  Poetry,  2  vols., 
New  York,  1939-42. 

19.  Andre  Monglond,  Le  Preromantisme  frangais,  2  vols.,  Grenoble, 
1 930;  Pierre  Trahard,  Les  Maitres  de  la  sensibilite  francaise  au 
XVIIP  siecle,  4  vols.,  Paris,  193 1-3. 

20.  Cf.  an  excellent  survey  of  research  on  The  Use  of  Color  in  Literature 
by  Sigmund  Skard,  in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical  So- 
ciety XC  (No.  3,  July,  1946),  pp.  163-249.  The  bibliography  of 
1 1 83  items  lists  also  the  vast  literature  on  landscape  feeling. 

21.  Balzac,  Cousine  Bette  (tr.  James  Waring,  London,  1897),  p.   106. 

22.  Gellert,  Letter  to  Count  Hans  Moritz  von  Briihl,  April  3,  1755  (in 
Speck  Collection,  Yale  University  Library). 

23.  Dr.  Johnson,  Prayers  and  Meditations,  Letters  to  Miss  Boothby,  etc. 

24.  Cf.  Dilthey's  first  version  of  his  theory  of  types  in  "Die  drei 
Grundformen  der  Systeme  in  der  ersten  Halfte  des  19.  Jahrhun- 
derts," Archiv  fur  Geschichte  der  Philosophic,  XI  (1898),  p.  557  ff. 
Later  versions  may  be  found  in  "Das  Wesen  der  Philosophic"  in  Paul 
Hinneberg's  Die  Kultur  der  Gegenzuart  (Teil  I,  Abteilung  VI,  cSys- 
tematische  Philosophic,'  Berlin,  1907,  pp.  1-72),  and  "Die  Typen 
der  Weltanschaung  und  ihre  Ausbildung  in  den  philosophischen  Sys- 
temen,"  W eltanschauung,  Philosophic,  Religion  (ed.  Max  Frischeisen- 
Kohler,  Berlin,  191 1),  pp.  3-54. 

25.  Hermann  Nohl,  Die  Wei  tans  chauun  gen  der  Malerie,  Jena,  1908; 
Typische  Kunststile  in  Dichtung  und  Musik,  Jena,  191 5. 

26.  Unger  in  "Weltanschauung  und  Dichtung,"  Aufs'dtze  .  .  .  ,  op.  cit., 
p.  77  ff. 

27.  O.  Walzel,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  dichterischen  Kunstwerk  (Berlin- 
Babelsberg,  1923),  p.  77  ff. 


320  Notes  [fif.  uy-125 

28.  H.  W.  Eppelsheimer,  "Das  Renaissanceproblem,"  Deutsche  Vier- 
teljahrschrift    fur    Literaturzvissenschaft    und    Geistesgeschichte,    II 

(i933)3  P-  497- 

29.  H.  A.  Korff,  Geist  der  Goethezeit:  Versuch  einer  ideellen  Entzvick- 

lung  der  klassisch-romantischen  Literaturgeschichte,  3  vols.,  Leipzig, 
1923-40;  Herbert  Cysarz,  Erfahrung  und  Idee,  Vienna,  1921; 
Deutsche  Barockdichtung,  Leipzig,  1924,  Literaturgeschichte  als 
Geisteszvissenschaft,  Halle,  1926,  Von  Schiller  bis  Nietzsche,  Halle, 
1928;  Schiller,  Halle,  1934;  Max  Deutschbein,  Das  Wesen  des 
Romantischen,  Cothen,  1921;  Georg  Stefansky,  Das  Wesen  der 
deutschen  Romantik,  Stuttgart,  1923;  Paul  Meissner,  Die  geistes- 
zvissenschaftlichen  Grundlagen  des  englischen  Literaturbarocks,  Berlin, 

1934- 

30.  Ernst  Cassirer,  Treiheit  und  For?n,  Berlin,  1922;  Idee  und  Gestalt, 
Berlin,   192 1.  Cf.  Cysarz,  of.  cit. 

31.  B.  Croce,  La  poesia  di  Dante,  Bari,  1920. 

32.  B.  Croce,  Goethe,  Bari,  1919.  English  translation,  London,  1923,  pp. 
185-6. 

CHAPTER    XI 

Literature  and  the  Other  Arts 

1.  Emile  Legouis,  Edmund  Spenser,  Paris,  1923;  Elizabeth  W.  Man- 
waring,  Italian  Landscape  in  Eighteenth  Century  England,  New 
York,  1925;  Sir  Sidney  Colvin,  John  Keats,  London,   191 7. 

2.  Stephen  A.  Larrabee,  English  Bards  and  Grecian  Marbles:  The  Rela- 
tions hi-p  betzveen  Sculpture  and  Poetry  especially  in  the  Romantic 
Period,  New  York,   1943. 

3.  Albert  Thibaudet,  La  Poesie  de  Stephane  Mallarme,  Paris,  1926. 

4.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

5.  Cf.  Bruce  Pattison,  "Literature  and  Music,"  in  V.  De  Sola  Pinto, 
The  English  Renaissance,  London,  1938,  pp.  120-42;  Germaine  Bon- 
toux,  La  Chanson  en  Angleterre  au  temps  d*  Elizabeth,  Paris,  1938; 
Miles  M.  Kastendieck,  England's  Musical  Poet:  Thomas  Campion, 
New  York,   1938. 

6.  Erwin  Panofsky,  Studies  in  Iconology,  New  York,  1939.  Cf.  also  the 
publication  of  the  Warburg  Institute,  the  work  of  Fritz  Saxl,  Edgar 
Wind,  and  others.  There  is  much  work  on  the  pictorial  representation 
(on  vases)  of  Homer  and  the  Greek  tragedies,  e.g.,  Carl  Robert,  Bild 
und  Lied,  Berlin,  1881 ;  Louis  Sechan,  Etudes  sur  la  tragedie  grecque 
dans  ses  rapports  avec  la  ceramique,  Paris,  1926. 

7.  Larrabee,  loc.  cit.,  p.  87.  A  fuller  discussion  by  R.  Wellek  in  a  re- 
view, Philological  Quarterly,  XXIII  (1944),  pp.  382-3. 


pp.   125-132]  Notes  321 

8.  W.  G.  Howard,  "Ut  Pictura  Poesis,"  Publications  of  the  Modem  Lan- 
guage Association,  XXIV  (1909),  pp.  40-123  ;  Cicely  Davies,  "Ut  Pic- 
tura Poesis,"  Modern  Language  Review,  XXX  (1935),  pp.  159-69; 
Rensselaer  W.  Lee,  "Ut  Pictura  Poesis:  The  Humanistic  Theory  of 
Painting,"  Art  Bulletin,  XXII  (1940),  pp.  197-269. 

9.  Mrs.  Una  Ellis-Fermor  gives  such  an  elaborate  "musical  analysis"  of 
Jonson's  Vol f one  in  her  Jacobean  Drama,  London,  1936;  and  George 
R.  Kernodle  tried  to  find  "The  Symphonic  Form  of  King  Lear'''  in 
Elizabethan  Studies  and  Other  Essays  in  Honor  of  George  G.  Rey- 
nolds, Boulder,  Colorado,  1945,  pp.  185-91. 

10.  See  Erwin  Panofsky,  "The  Neoplatonic  Movement  and  Michel- 
angelo," Studies  in  Iconology,  New  York,  1939,  p.  171  ff. 

11.  Charles  de  Tolnay,  Pierre  Bruegel  I'Ancien,  2  vols.,  Bruxelles,  1935; 
cf.  also  Die  Zeichnungen  Peter  Breugels,  Munich,  1925;  Carl  Neu- 
mann's criticism  in  Deutsche  Vierteljahrschrift,  IV  (1926),  p.  308  ff. 

12.  Cf.  preceding  chapter,  "Literature  and  Ideas." 

13.  Benedetto  Croce,  Aesthetic  (tr.  D.  Ainslie),  London,  1929,  pp.  62, 
1 10,  188,  et  -passim. 

14.  John  Dewey,  Art  as  Experience,  New  York,  1934,  pp.  212. 

15.  T.  M.  Greene,  The  Arts  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,  Princeton,  1 940, 
p.  213  ff.,  especially  pp.  221-26;  John  Dewey,  op.  cit.,  pp.  175  ff., 
218  ff.  Arguments  against  the  use  of  rhythm  in  the  plastic  arts  are  to 
be  found  in  Ernst  Neumann,  XJntersuchungen  zur  Psychologie  und 
Aesthetik  des  Rhythmus,  Leipzig,  1894;  and  in  Fritz  Medicus,  "Das 
Problem  einer  vergleichenden  Geschichte  der  Kiinste,"  in  Philosophie 
der  Literaturzvissenschaft  (ed.  E.  Ermatinger),  Berlin,  1930,  p.  1 95  ff. 

16.  George  David  Birkhoff,  Aesthetic  Measure,  Cambridge,  Mass.,   1933. 

17.  E.g.,  in  John  Hughes's  Preface  to  his  edition  of  the  Faerie  Queene 
(171 5)  and  in  Richard  Hurd's  Letters  on  Chivalry  and  Romance 
(1762). 

18.  Oswald  Spengler,  Der  Untergang  des  Abendlandes,  Munich,  1923, 
Vol.  I,  pp.  151,  297,  299,  322,  339. 

19.  Cf.  R.  Wellek's  article  cited  in  Bibliography,  section  I,  and  his  "The 
Concept  of  Baroque  in  Literary  Scholarship,"  Journal  of  Aesthetics 
and  Art  Criticism,  V  (1946),  pp.  77-108.  There  are  many  concrete 
examples  and  further  references. 

20.  H.  Wolfflin,  Kunstgeschichtliche  Grundbegriffe,  Munich,  191 5  (Eng- 
lish tr.  by  M.  D.  Hottinger,  New  York,   1932). 

21.  Cf.  Hanna  Levy,  Henri  Wolfflin,  Sa  theorie.  Ses  predecesseurs,  Rott- 
weil,  1936  (a  Paris  these). 

22.  H.  Wolfflin,  "Kunstgeschichtliche  Grundbegriffe:  Eine  Revision," 
Logos,  XXII  (1933),  pp.  210-24  (reprinted  in  Gedanken  zur  Kunst- 
geschichte,  Basel,  1941),  pp.  18-24. 


322  Notes  [pp.   132-140 

23.  O.  Walzel,  "Shakespeares  dramatische  Baukunst,"  Jahrbuch  der 
Shakespearegesellschaft,  LII  (1916),  pp.  3-35  (reprinted  in  Das 
Wort  kunstzverk,  Mittel  seiner  Erforschung,  Leipzig,  1926,  pp. 
302-25). 

24.  Ibid.  (Berlin,  1917),  esp.  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  Kunstzverk  des 
Dichters,  Wildpark-Potsdam,  1923,  pp.  265  ff.  and  282  ff. 

25.  Fritz  Strich,  Deutsche  Klassik  und  Romantik,  oder  Vollendung  und 
Unendlichkeit,  Munich,  1922.  Cf.  also  the  criticism  in  Martin 
Schiitze,  Academic  Illusions,  Chicago,  1933,  pp.  13,  16. 

26.  Cf.  Christopher  Hussey,  The  Picturesque:  Studies  in  a  Point  of  View, 
London,  1927,  p.  5. 

27.  Jakob  Burckhardt,  Die  Kultur  der  Renaissance  in  Italien,  Vienna, 
pp.  202-3. 

28.  There  is  a  good  discussion  of  these  theories  in  Pitirim  Sorokin's  Social 
and  Cultural  Dynamics,  Vol.  I,  Cincinnati,  1937.  Cf.  also  W,  Pas- 
sarge,  Die  Philosophic  der  Kunstgeschichte  in  der  Gegenwart,  Berlin, 
1930. 

29.  E.  Legouis  and  L.  Cazamian,  Histoire  de  la  litterature  anglaise,  Paris, 
1924,  p.  279. 

CHAPTER    XII 

The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art 

1.  Sir  Sidney  Lee,  The  Place  of  English  Literature  in  the  Modern  Uni- 
versity, London,  191 3  (reprinted  in  Elizabethan  and  Other  Essays, 
London,  1929,  p.  7). 

2.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III. 

3.  E.g.,  Oskar  Walzel,  Wechselseitige  Erhellung  der  Kilnste,  Berlin, 
191 7;  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  Kunstzverk  des  Dichters,  Potsdam,  1 923  ; 
Das  Wort  kunstzverk,  Leipzig,  1926. 

4.  For  studies  of  the  Russian  movement  cf.  Manfred  Kridl  in  American 
Bookman  (1944),  pp.  19-30;  Nina  Gourfmkel  in  Le  Monde  Slave, 
VI  (1929),  pp.  234-63;  and  V.  Zhirmunsky,  in  Zeitschrift  fur 
si  avis  c  he  Philologie,  I  (1925),  pp.  117-52. 

5.  Cf.  esp.  William  Empson,  Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity,  London,  1930; 
F.  R.  Leavis,  Nezv  Bearings  in  English  Poetry,  London,  1932;  Geof- 
frey Tillotson,  On  the  Poetry  of  Pope,  1938. 

6.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  IV. 

7.  L.  C.  Knights,  Hozv  many  Children  had  Lady  Macbeth?,  London, 
1933,  pp.  15-54  (reprinted  in  Explorations,  London,  1946,  pp.  I  5- 
54),  states  the  case  against  the  confusion  of  drama  and  life  well.  The 
writings  of  E.  E.  Stoll,  L.  L.  Schikking,  and  others  have  particularly 
emphasized  the  role  of  convention  and  the  distance  from  life  in  drama. 


fp.  140-157]  Notes  323 

8.  The  writings  of  Joseph  Warren  Beach  and  Percy  Lubbock's  The 
Craft  of  Fiction,  London,  1 921,  are  outstanding.  In  Russia,  Viktor 
Shklovsky's  O  Teoriyi  frozy  {The  Theory  of  Prose),  1925,  and  many 
writings  by  V.  V.  Vinogradov  and  B.  M.  Eikhenbaum  apply  the  For- 
malist approach  to  the  novel. 

9.  Jan  Mukafovsky,  Introduction  to  Machuv  Maj  {Macho's  May), 
Prague,  1928,  pp.  iv-vi. 

10.  Cf.  "The  actual  story  of  a  novel  eludes  the  epitomist  as  completely 
as  character  .  .  .  only  as  precipitates  from  the  memory  are  plot  or 
character  tangible;  yet  only  in  solution  have  either  any  emotive  va- 
lency." (C.  H.  Rickword,  "A  Note  on  Fiction,"  Toward  Standards 
of  Criticism  [ed.  F.  R.  Leavis],  London,  1935,  p.  33.) 

11.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

12.  Ernest  Fenollosa,  The  Chinese  Written  Character  as  a  Medium  for 
Poetry,  New  York,  1936;  Margaret  Church,  "The  First  English  Pat- 
tern Poems,"  PMLA,  LXI  (1946),  pp.  636-50. 

13.  Cf.  Alfred  Einstein,  "Augenmusik  im  Madrigal,"  Zeitschrift  der  in- 
ternationalen  Musikgesellschaft,  XIV  (191 2),  pp.  8-21. 

14.  I.  A.  Richards,  Princifles  of  Literary  Criticism,  London,  1924,  pp. 
125,  248.  Cf.  Practical  Criticism,  London,  1929,  p.  349. 

15.  Richards,  Princifles,  pp.  225-27. 

16.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  V. 

17.  Examples  from  Walzel's  article  listed  in  bibliography,  Section  V. 

18.  As  Spingarn  says,  "The  poet's  aim  must  be  judged  at  the  moment  of 
creative  art,  that  is  to  say,  by  the  art  of  the  poem  itself."  ("The  New 
Criticism,"  Criticism  and  America,  New  York,  1924,  pp.  24-5.) 

19.  E.  M.  Tillyard  and  C.  S.  Lewis,  The  Personal  Heresy:  A  Controversy, 
London,  1934;  Tillyard's  Milton,  London,  1930,  p.  237. 

20.  In  his  Biografhie  de  Vceuvre  litteraire,  Paris,  1925,  Pierre  Audiat  has 
argued  that  the  work  of  art  "represents  a  period  in  the  life  of  the 
writer,"  and  has  consequently  become  involved  in  just  such  impossible 
and  quite  unnecessary  dilemmas. 

21.  Jan  Mukafovsky,  "L'art  comme  fait  semiologique"  (a  paper  read  be- 
fore  the   International   Congress  of  Philosophy,   Prague,   September, 

1934)- 
2  2.  Roman  Ingarden,  Das  literarische  Kunstzverk,  Halle,  1 931. 

23.  Esp.  in  De  Saussure's  Cours  de  Linguistique  Generale,  Paris,  1916. 

24.  Cf.  E.  Husserl's  Meditations  Cartesiennes,  Paris,  193 1,  pp.  38-9. 

25.  Cf.  note  7. 

26.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

27.  Cf.  Louis  Teeter,  "Scholarship  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,"  ELH,  V 
(1938),  pp.  173-93- 


324  Notes  [pp.  15J-164 

28.   Cf.  Ernst  Troeltsch's  "Historiography,"  in  Hastings5  Encyclopaedia  of 

Religion  and  Ethics,  Edinburgh,  191 3,  Vol.  VI,  p.  722. 
29-  This  term  is  used,  though  differently,  by  Ortega  y  Gasset. 

CHAPTER    XIII 

Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter 

1.  Birkhoff,  Aesthetic  Measure,  Cambridge,  Mass.,    1933. 

2.  Cf.  the  experimental  work  of  Carl  Stumpf,  Die  Sprachlaute,  Berlin, 
1926,  esp.  p.  38  ff. 

3.  W.  J.  Bate,  The  Stylistic  Development  of  John  Keats,  New  York, 
1945. 

4.  Osip  Brik,  "Zvukovie  povtory"  (Sound-figures),  in  Poetika,  St.  Peters- 
burg, 191 9. 

5.  For  a  fuller  discussion  cf.  the  chapter  "Literature  and  the  Other  Arts." 

6.  Henry  Lanz,  The  Physical  Basis  of  Rime,  Palo  Alto,  193 1. 

7.  W.  K.  Wimsatt,  "One  Relation  of  Rhyme  to  Reason,"  Modern  Lan- 
guage Quarterly,  V  (1944),  pp.  323-38. 

8.  H.  C.  Wyld,  Studies  in  English  Rhymes  from  Surrey  to  Pope,  Lon- 
don, 1923.  Cf.  also  Frederick  Ness,  The  Use  of  Rhyme  in  Shake- 
speare's Plays,  New  Haven,  1 941. 

9.  V.  Zhirmunsky,  Rifma,  ee  istoria  i  teoriya  (Rhyme,  its  History  and 
Theory),  Petrograd,  1923;  Valery  Bryusov,  "O  rifme"  (On  Rhyme), 
Pechat  i  revolutsiya  1924  (I,  pp.  114-23)  reviews  Zhirmunsky's  book 
and  suggests  many  further  problems  for  the  investigation  of  rhyme. 
Charles  F.  Richardson,  A  Study  of  English  Rhyme,  Hanover,  N.  H., 
1909,  is  a  modest  beginning  in  the  right  direction. 

10.  Wolfgang  Kayser,  Die  Klangmalerei  bei  Harsdorfer,  Leipzig,  1932 
(Palaestra,  vol.  1 79);  I.  A.  Richards,  Practical  Criticism,  London, 
1929,  pp.  232-3. 

11.  J.  C.  Ransom,  The  World's  Body,  New  York,  1938,  pp.  95-7. 

12.  M.  Grammont,  Le  Vers  frangais,  ses  moyens  d' 'expression,  son  har- 
monic,  Paris,  1 91  3. 

13.  Rene  Etiemble,  "Le  Sonnet  des  Voyelles,"  Revue  de  litterature  com- 
paree,  XIX  (1939),  pp.  235-61,  discusses  the  many  anticipations  in 
A.  W.  Schlegel  and  others. 

14.  Albert  Wellek,  "Der  Sprachgeist  als  Doppelempfinder,"  Zeitschrift 
fiir  Asthetik,  XXV  (1 931),  pp.  226-62. 

15.  Cf.  Stumpf,  quoted  in  note  2,  and  Wolfgang  KShler,  "Akustische 
Untersuchungen,"  Zeitschrift  fiir  Psychologie,  LIV  (1910),  pp.  241- 
89,  LVIII  (1911),  pp.  59-140,  LXIV  (1913),  pp.  92-105,  LXXII 
(1915),   pp.    1-192.    Roman    Jakobson,    Kindersprache,    Aphasie   und 


ff.  164-168]  Notes  325 

allgemeine  Lautgesetze,  Upsala,   1 941,  supports  these  results  by  evi- 
dence drawn  from  children's  language  and  aphasia. 

16.  Cf.,  e.g.,  E.  M.  Hornbostel,  "Laut  und  Sinn,"  in  Festschrift  Mein- 
hof,  Hamburg,  1927,  pp.  329-48;  Heinz  Werner,  Grundfragen  der 
Sfrachfhysiognomik,  Leipzig,  1932.  Katherine  M.  Wilson,  Sound  and 
Meaning  in  English  Poetry,  London,  1930,  is  rather  a  general  book 
on  metrics  and  sound-patterns.  Roman  Jakobson  has  in  preparation  a 
book  on  "Sound  and  Meaning." 

17.  Convenient  recent  surveys  are  A.  W.  de  Groot,  "Der  Rhythmus," 
Neofhilologus,  XVII  (1932),  pp.  81-100,  177-97,  24I_°5;  and 
Dietrich  Sekel,  Holderlins  Sfrachrhythmus,  Leipzig,  1937  (Palaestra 
207),  a  book  which  contains  a  general  discussion  of  rhythm  and  a  full 
bibliography. 

18.  E.g.,  in  W.  K.  Wimsatt's  The  Prose  Style  of  Samuel  Johnson,  New 
Haven,  1941,  pp.  5-8. 

19.  Joshua  Steele,  Prosodia  Rationalis,  or  an  Essay  towards  Establishing 
the  Melody  and  Measure  of  Sfeech,  London,  1775. 

20.  Eduard  Sievers,  Rhythmisch-melodische  Studien,  Heidelberg,  191 2; 
Ottmar  Rutz,  Musik,  Wort  und  Korfer  ah  Gemiitsausdruck,  Leipzig, 
191 1,  Sfrache,  Gesang  und  Korferhaltung,  Munich,  191 1,  Mensch- 
heitstyfen  und  Kunst,  Jena,  1921;  Gunther  Ipsen  and  Fritz  Karg, 
Schallanalytische  Versuche,  Heidelberg,  1938,  lists  the  literature  on 
this  question. 

21.  O.  Walzel,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  dichterischen  Kunstwerk,  Potsdam, 
1923,  pp.  96-105,  391-94.  Gustav  Becking,  Der  musikalische 
Rhythmus  als  Erkenntnis quelle,  Augsburg,  1923,  is  an  admired,  but 
fantastic  attempt  to  use  Sievers'  theories. 

22.  W.  M.  Patterson,  The  Rhythm  of  Prose,  New  York,  1916. 

23.  G.  Saintsbury,  A  History  of  English  Prose  Rhythm,  London,   191 3. 

24.  Oliver  Elton,  "English  Prose  Numbers,"  A  Sheaf  of  Pafers,  London, 
1922;  Morris  W.  Croll,  "The  Cadence  of  English  Oratorical  Prose," 
Studies  in  Philology,  XVI  (1919),  pp.   1-55. 

25.  B.  Tomashevsky,  "Ritm  prozy  (po  Pikovey  Dame)"  (Prose  Rhythm, 
according  to  the  Queen  of  Shades),  O  Stikhe.  Statyi.  (Essays  on 
Verse),  Leningrad,  1929. 

26.  Eduard  Norden,  Die  antike  Kunstfrosa,  Leipzig,  1898,  2  vols.,  is 
standard.  Cf.  also  Albert  de  Groot,  A  Handbook  of  Antique  Prose 
Rhythm,  Groningen,  1919. 

27.  Cf.  William  K.  Wimsatt's  The  Prose  Style  of  Samuel  Johnson,  New 
Haven,  1 94 1. 

28.  G.  Saintsbury,  History  of  English  Prosody,  3  vols.,  London,  1 906-10. 

29.  Bliss  Perry,  A  Study  of  Poetry,  London,  1920,  p.  145. 


326  Notes  [pp.  168-173 

30.  T.  S.  Omond,  English  Metrists,  Oxford,  1 921;  Pallister  Barkas, 
A  Critique  of  Modem  English  Prosody,  Halle,  1934  (Studien  zur 
englischen  Phi/ologie,  ed.  Morsbach  and  Hecht,  LXXXII). 

31.  Cf.  esp.  M.  W.  Croll,  "Music  and  Metrics,"  Studies  in  Philology, 
XX  (1923),  pp.  388-94;  G.  R.  Stewart,  Jr.,  The  Technique  of  Eng- 
lish Verse,  New  York,  1930. 

32.  This  notation  comes  from  Morris  W.  Croll,  The  Rhythm  of  English 
Verse  (mimeographed  pamphlet,  Princeton,  1929),  p.  8.  It  seems 
a  highly  artificial  reading  to  substitute  a  rest  for  a  primary  accent. 

33.  The  most  elaborate  theoretical  book,  with  hundreds  of  examples,  is 
William  Thomson's  The  Rhythm  of  Sfeech,  Glasgow,  1923.  A  recent 
subtle  exponent  is  John  C.  Pope,  The  Rhythm  of  Beowulf,  New 
Haven,  1942. 

34.  E.g.,  Donald  Stauffer,  The  Nature  of  Poetry,  New  York,  1946,  pp. 
203-4. 

35.  George  R.  Stewart,  Jr.,  Modem  Metrical  Technique  as  Illustrated  by 
Ballad  Meter  (1 700-1920),  New  York,  1922. 

36.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III,  2. 

37.  W.  L.  Schramm,  University  of  Iowa  Studies,  Series  on  Aims  and  Prog- 
ress of  Research,  No.  46,  Iowa  City,  la.,  1935. 

38.  Cf.  The  title-page  of  Henry  Lanz,  The  Physical  Basis  of  Rime,  Stan- 
ford Press,  1 93 1. 

39.  Vittorio  Benussi,  Psychologie  der  Zeitauffassung,  Heidelberg,  1913, 
pp.  215  ff. 

40.  G.  R.  Stewart,  The  Technique  of  English  Verse,  New  York,   1 930, 

P-  3- 

41.  Saran,  Deutsche  Verslehre,  loc.  cit.,  p.  ij  Verrier,  Essai  .   .   .  ,  Vol.  I, 

p.  ix. 

42.  Stewart  has  to  introduce  the  term  "phrase,"  which  implies  an  under- 
standing of  meaning. 

43.  The  most  important  formalist  publications  on  prosody  are  these:  Boris 
Eikhenbaum,  Melodika  lyricheskogo  stikha  {The  Melody  of  Lyric 
Verse),  St.  Petersburg,  1922;  Boris  Tomashevsky,  Ruskoye  stikhoslo- 
zhenye,  Metrika  {Russian  Versification,  Metrics),  St.  Petersburg,  1923, 
O  Stikhe.  Statyi.  [Essays  on  Verse),  Leningrad,  1 929;  Yuryi  N.  Tyn- 
yanov,  Problemy  stikhotvomago  yazyka  {Problems  of  Poetic  Lan- 
guage), Leningrad,  1924;  Roman  Jakobson,  O  cheshskom  stikhe  {On 
Czech  Verse),  Berlin,  1923;  Viktor  Zhirmunsky,  Kompozitsiya 
liricheskikh  stikhotvorenii  {The  Composition  of  Lyrical  Poems),  Pet- 
rograd,  1921,  Vvedenie  v  metriku.  Teoriya  stikha  {Introduction  to 
Metrics:  The  Theory  of  Verse),  Leningrad,  1925. 


ft-  I73-I8°]  Notes  327 

44.  Jan  Mukarovsky,  "Intonation  comme  facteur  de  rhythme  poetique," 
Archives  neerlandaises  de  phonetique  experimental  e,  VTII-IX  (1933), 
pp.  153-65. 

45.  Eduard  Fraenkel,  Iktus  und  Akzent  im  lateinischen  Sprechvers,  Berlin, 
1928. 

46.  Some  beginnings  are  to  be  found  in  Albert  H.  Licklider,  Chapters  on 
the  Metric  of  the  Chaucerian  Tradition,  Baltimore,  19 10. 

47.  A.  Meillet,  Les  Origines  indoeuropeennes  des  metres  grecs,  Paris,  1923. 

48.  Roman  Jakobson,  "Uber  den  Versbau  der  serbokroatischen  Volksepen," 
Archives  neerlandaises  de  phonetique  experimental ,  VIII-IX  (1933)? 
pp.  135-153. 

49.  Thomas  MacDonagh  {Thomas  Campion  and  the  Art  of  English  Poetry, 
Dublin,  1 91 3)  distinguishes  between  song,  speech  and  chant  verse. 

50.  Boris  E.  Eikhenbaum,  Melodika  lyricheskogo  stikha  {The  Melody  of 
Lyrical  Verse),  St.  Petersburg,  1922. 

51.  See  the  criticism  of  Eikhenbaum  in  Viktor  Zhirmunsky's  Voprosy  teorii 
literatury  {Questions  of  the  Theory  of  Literature),  Leningrad,  1928. 

CHAPTER    XIV 

Style  and  Stylistics 

1.  F.  W.  Bateson,  English  Poetry  and  the  English  Language,  Oxford, 
1934,  p.  vi. 

2.  K.  Vossler,  Gesammelte  Aufs'dtze  zur  Sprachphilosophie,  Munich, 
1923,  p.  37. 

3.  Vossler,  Frankreichs  Kultur  im  Spiegel  seiner  Sprachentzvicklung, 
Heidelberg,  191 3  (new  ed.,  1929,  as  Frankreichs  Kultur  und 
Sprache) ;  Viktor  Vinogradov,  Yazyk  Pushkina  {Pushkin's  Language), 
Moscow,  1935. 

4.  These  are  the  results  of  P.  Verrier's  careful  experiments  as  given  in 
Essai  sur  les  principes  de  la  metrique  anglaise,  Paris,  1 909-1 0,  Vol.  I, 
p.  113. 

5.  A.  H.  King,  The  Language  of  Satirized  Characters  in  Poetaster',  a 
Socio-Stylistic  Analysis,  i^gj-1602,  Lund  Studies  in  English,  Vol.  X, 
Lund,  1941;  Wilhelm  Franz,  Shakespearegrammatik,  Halle,  1898- 
1900  (new  ed.  Heidelberg,  1924);  Lazare  Sainean,  La  Langue  de 
Rabelais,  2  vols.,  Paris,  1922-23.  For  a  full  bibliography,  cf.  Guerlin 
de  Guer,  "La  Langue  des  ecrivains,"  Qu'en  sont  les  etudes  de  Fran- 
cais?  (ed.  A.  Dauzat),  Paris,  1935,  pp.  227-337. 

6.  See  bibliography,  Section  I. 

7.  From  Tennyson's  "Edwin  Morris,"  drawn  from  H.  C.  Wyld,  Some 
Aspects  of  the  Diction  of  English  Poetry,  Oxford,  1933.  There  is  a 


328  Notes  [ff.  181-187 

highly  historical  discussion  of  the  problem  in  the  Preface  to  Geoffrey 
Tillotson's  Essays  in  Criticism  and  Research,  Cambridge,   1942. 

8.  Marvell's  "To  his  Coy  Mistress." 

9.  Louis  Teeter,  "Scholarship  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,"  ELH,  V 
(1938),  p.  183. 

10.  Charles  Bally,  Traite  de  la  stylistique  francaise,  Heidelberg,  1909. 
Leo  Spitzer  also,  at  least  in  his  earlier  studies,  identified  stylistics  with 
syntax:  cf.  "Uber  syntaktische  Methoden  auf  romanischen  Gebiet," 
Die  neueren  Sfrachen,  XXV  (1919),  p.  338. 

11.  On  "Grand  Style,"  cf.  Matthew  Arnold's  On  Translating  Homer  and 
G.  Saintsbury's  "Shakespeare  and  the  Grand  Style,"  "Milton  and  the 
Grand  Style,"  and  "Dante  and  the  Grand  Style,"  Collected  Essays  and 
Papers,  London,  1923,  Vol.  III. 

12.  Friedrich  Kainz,  "Hohere  Wirkungsgestalten  des  sprachlichen  Aus- 
drucks  im  Deutschen,"  Zeitschrift  fiir  Asthetik,  XXVIII  (1934),  pp. 

305-57- 

13.  Wimsatt,  of.  cit.,  p.  12. 

14.  Wilhelm  Schneider,  Ausdruckszuerte  der  deutschen  Sfrache:  Eine  Stil- 
kunde,  Leipzig,  1 93  I,  p.  21. 

15.  See  bibliography,  Section  V. 

16.  Cf.  Morris  W.  Croll's  Introduction  to  Harry  Clemons'  edition  of 
Lyly's  Eufhues,  London,  191 6. 

17.  Cf.  Henry  C.  Wyld,  Sfenser's  Diction  and  Style,  London,  1930; 
B.  R.  McElderry,  Jr.,  "Archaism  and  Innovation  in  Spenser's  Poetic 
Diction,"  PMLA,  XL VII  (1932),  pp.  1 44-70;  Herbert  W.  Sugden, 
The  Grammar  of  Sfenser's  Fairie  Queene,  Philadelphia,   1936. 

18.  Cf.  Austin  Warren,  "Instress  of  Inscape,"  Gerard  Manley  H  of  kins,  By 
the  Kenyon  Critics,  Norfolk,  Conn.,  1945,  pp.  72-88. 

19.  J.  M.  Robertson,  The  Shakesfeare  Canon,  4  vols.,  London,  1922-32. 

20.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

21.  Josephine  Miles,  "The  Sweet  and  Lovely  Language,"  Gerard  Manley 
H  of  kins,  By  the  Kenyon  Critics,  Norfolk,  Conn.,   1945,  pp.   55-71. 

2  2.  Geoffrey  Tillotson,  Essays  in  Criticism  and  Research,  Cambridge, 
1942,  p.  84. 

23.  Friedrich  Gundolf,  Goethe,  Berlin,   191 5. 

24.  Hermann  Nohl,  Die  Kunststile  in  Dichtung  und  Musik,  Jena,  191  5, 
and  Stil  und  W eltanschauung,  Jena,  1920. 

25.  Motif  und  Wort,  Studien  zur  Literatur-  und  Sfrachfsychologie,  Hans 
Sperber,  Motiv  und  Wort  bei  Gustav  Meyrink,  Leo  Spitzer,  Die 
groteske  Gestaltungs-  und  Sfrachkunst  Christian  Morgensterns,  Leip- 
zig, 1 91 8;  Josef  Korner,  Arthur  Schnitzlers  Gestalten  und  Probleme, 
Munich,   1921.  Cf.  also  Josef  Korner,  "Erlebnis-Motiv-Stoff,"   Vom 


fp.  187-190]  Notes  329 

Geiste  neuer  Literaturjorschung:  Festchrift  fiir  Oskar  Walzel,  Wild- 
park-Potsdam,  1924,  pp.  80-9;  Leo  Spitzer,  Studien  zu  Henri  Bar- 
busse,  Bonn,  1 920. 

26.  Leo  Spitzer,  "Zu  Charles  Peguys  Stil,"  Vom  Geiste  neuer  Litera- 
turjorschung: Festschrift  fur  Oskar  Walzel  (Wildpark,  Potsdam, 
1924),  pp.  162-183  (reprinted  in  Stilstudien,  loc.  cit.,  Vol.  II,  pp. 
301-64);  "Der  Unanimismus  Jules  Romains'  im  Spiegel  seiner 
Sprache,"  Archivum  Romanicum,  VIII  (1924),  pp.  59-123  (reprinted 
in  Stilstudien,  loc.  cit.,  II,  pp.  208-300).  On  Morgenstern,  cf. 
note  20. 

27.  Spitzer,  Die  Wortbildung  als  stilistisches  Mittel  {bei  Rabelais"),  Halle, 
1 9 10;  "Pseudo-objektive  Motivierung  bei  Charles-Louis  Phillipe," 
Zeitschrift  fur  franzosische  Sprache  und  Liter  atur,  XL VI  (1923),  pp. 
659-85   (reprinted  in  Stilstudien,  loc.  cit.,  Vol.  II,  pp.   166-207). 

28.  Spitzer,  "Zur  sprachlichen  Interpretation  von  Wortkunstwerken,"  Neue 
Jahrbiicher  fur  Wissenschaft  und  Jugendbildung,  VI  (1930),  pp. 
632-51  (reprinted  in  Romanische  Stil-  und  Literaturstudien,  Mar- 
burg, 193 1,  Vol.  I);  cf.  also  "Wortkunst  und  Sprachwissenschaft," 
Germanisch-romanische  Monatsschrift,  XIII  (1925),  pp.  169-86  (re- 
printed in  Stilstudien,  loc.  cit.,  Vol.  II,  pp.  498-536);  "Linguistics 
and  Literary  History,"  Linguistics  and  Literary  History,  Princeton, 
1948,  pp.  1-40. 

29.  Spitzer,  "Klassische  Dampfung  in  Racine,"  Archizmm  Romanicum, 
XII  (1928),  pp.  361-472  (reprinted  in  Ro?nanische  Stil-  und  Litera- 
turstudien, Marburg,  193  I,  Vol.  I,  pp.  135-270).  Also  cf.  there,  arti- 
cles on  Quevedo,  Gongora,  Voltaire. 

30.  E.g.,  Fritz  Strich,  "Der  lyrische  Stil  des  siebzehnten  Jahrhunderts," 
Abhandlungen  zur  deutschen  Literaturgeschichte,  Franz  Muncker  .  .  . 
dargebracht,  Munich,   1916,  pp.  21-53,  esp.  p.  37. 

31.  Cf.  Morris  W.  Croll's  excellent  essay,  "The  Baroque  Style  in  Prose," 
Studies  in  English  Philology:  A  Miscellany  in  Honor  of  F.  Klaeber, 
Minneapolis,  1929,  pp.  427-56;  also  George  Williamson,  "Senecan 
Style  in  the  Seventeenth  Century,"  Philological  Quarterly,  XV 
(1936),  pp.  321-51. 

32.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  IV. 

33.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  IV. 

CHAPTER    xv 

Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  and  Myth 

I.  Max  Eastman,  The  Literary  Mind  in  an  Age  of  Science  (New  York, 
1931),  p.  165. 


330  Notes  [ffi.  igo-iQ4 

2.  On  "Types  of  Discourse,"  cf.  Charles  Morris,  Signs,  Languages,  and 
Behavior,  New  York,  1 946,  p.  123  ff.  Morris  distinguishes  twelve 
kinds  of  "discourse,"  of  which  those  relevant  to  our  chapter — and  our 
four  terms — are  "Fictive"  (the  World  of  the  Novel),  "Mythological," 
and  "Poetic." 

3.  Monosign  and  plurisign  are  used  by  Philip  Wheelwright,  in  "The 
Semantics  of  Poetry,"  Kenyon  Review,  II  (1940),  pp.  263-83.  The 
plurisign  is  "semantically  reflexive  in  the  sense  that  it  is  a  part  of  what 
it  means.  That  is  to  say,  the  plurisign,  the  poetic  symbol,  is  not  merely 
employed  but  enjoyed;  its  value  is  not  entirely  instrumental  but  largely 
aesthetic,  intrinsic." 

4.  Cf.  E.  G.  Boring,  Sensation  and  Perception  in  the  History  of  Experi- 
mental Psychology,  New  York,  1942;  June  Downey,  Creative  Imagi- 
nation: Studies  in  the  Psychology  of  Literature,  New  York,  1929; 
Jean-Paul  Sartre,  U  Imagination,  Paris,  1936. 

5.  I.  A.  Richards,  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism,  London,  1 924,  Chap- 
ter XVI,  "The  Analysis  of  a  Poem." 

6.  Ezra  Pound,  Pavamies  and  Divisions,  New  York,  191 8;  T.  S.  Eliot, 
"Dante,"  Selected  Essays,  New  York,  1932,  p.  204;  Eliot,  "A  Note  on 
the  Verse  of  John  Milton,"  Essays  and  Studies  by  Members  of  the 
English  Association,  XXI,  Oxford,  1936,  p.  34. 

7.  "Modern  psychology  has  taught  us  that  these  two  senses  of  the  term 
'image'  overlap.  We  may  say  that  every  spontaneous  mental  image  is 
to  some  extent  symbolical."  Charles  Baudoin,  Psychoanalysis  and 
Aesthetics,  New  York,  1924,  p.  28. 

8.  J.  M.  Murry,  "Metaphor,"  Countries  of  the  Mind,  2nd  series,  Lon- 
don, 193  1,  pp.  I -1 6;  L.  MacNeice,  Modern  Poetry,  New  York,  1938, 
p.  113. 

9.  An  admirable  study  of  one  literary  movement  and  its  influence  upon 
another  is  Rene  Taupin's  LUnfluence  du  symbolisme  francais  sur  la 
poesie  americaine  .   .   .   ,  Paris,   1929. 

10.  For  the  terminology  here  followed,  cf.  Craig  la  Driere,  The  American 
Bookman,  I  (1944),  pp.   103-4. 

11.  S.  T.  Coleridge,  The  Statesman's  Manual:  Complete  Works  (ed.  Shedd, 
New  York,  1853),  Vol.  I,  pp.  437-8.  This  distinction  between  symbol 
and  allegory  was  first  clearly  drawn  by  Goethe.  Cf.  Curt  Richard 
Miiller,  Die  geschichtlichen  Voraussetzungen  des  Symbolbegriffs  in 
Goethe's  Kunstanschauung,  Leipzig,  1937. 

12.  J.  H.  Wicksteed,  Blake's  Innocence  and  Experience  .  .  .  ,  London, 
1928,  p.  23;  W.  B.  Yeats,  Essays,  London,  1924,  p.  95  ff.,  on  Shel- 
ley's "Ruling  Symbols." 

When  do  metaphors  become  symbols?    (a)  When  the  "vehicle"  of 


ff.  ig^-igg~\  Notes  331 

the  metaphor  is  concrete-sensuous,  like  the  lamb.  The  cross  is  not  a 
metaphor  but  a  metonymic  symbol,  representing  Him  who  died  upon 
it,  like  St.  Lawrence's  gridiron  and  St.  Catherine's  wheel,  or  represent- 
ing suffering,  in  which  case  the  instrument  signifies  that  which  it  does, 
the  effect  of  its  action,  (b)  When  the  metaphor  is  recurrent  and  cen- 
tral, as  in  Crashaw  and  Yeats  and  Eliot.  The  normal  procedure  is  the 
turning  of  images  into  metaphors  and  metaphors  into  symbols,  as  in 
Henry  James.  In  "Domes  of  Byzantium,"  Southern  Review,  VII 
(1941),  pp.  639-52,  Howard  Baker  studies  in  detail  how  images  in 
Yeats'  early  poems  (fire,  birds,  hawks,  towers)  become  symbols  in  the 
later  work. 

13.  The  "Blakean  heterodoxy,"  says  M.  O.  Percival  (Blake's  Circle  of 
Destiny,  New  York,  1938,  p.  1),  "was  equally  traditional  with  Dante's 
orthodoxy."  Says  Mark  Schorer  (Blake,  New  York,  1946,  p.  23): 
"Blake,  like  Yeats,  found  metaphorical  support  for  his  dialectical  view 
in  .  .  .  the  system  of  correspondence  of  Swedenborg  and  Boehme,  in 
the  analogical  pursuits  of  the  cabalists,  and  in  the  alchemy  of  Para- 
celsus and  Agrippa." 

14.  Cf.  the  comments  on  Frost  of  Cleanth  Brooks,  Modem  Poetry  and 
the  Tradition,  Chapel  Hill,  1939,  p.  IIO  ff. 

15.  Cf.  Nietzsche,  Die  Gebnrt  der  Tragbdie,  Leipzig,  1872. 

16.  For  a  representative  group  of  definitions,  cf.  Lord  Raglan's  The  Hero 
.   .   .  ,  London,  1937. 

1 7.  Cf.  Fritz  Strich,  Die  Mythologie  in  der  deutschen  Literatur  von  Klof- 
stock  bis  Wagner,  Berlin,  1910.  2  vols. 

18.  S.  H.  Hooke,  Myth  and  Ritual,  Oxford,  1933;  J.  A.  Stewart,  The 
Myths  of  Plato,  London ;  Ernst  Cassirer,  Philosofhie  der  symbolischen 
Formen,  Vol.  II,  "Das  mythische  Denken,"  Berlin,   1925,  p.  271  ff. 

19.  Georges  Sorel,  Reflexions  on  Violence  (tr.  T.  E.  Hulme),  New  York, 
1 9 14;  Reinhold  Niebuhr,  "The  Truth  Value  of  Myths,"  The  Nature 
of  Religious  Exferience  .   .   .  ,  New  York,  1937. 

20.  Cf.  especially  R.  M.  Guastalla,  Le  Mythe  et  le  livre:  essai  sur 
Porigine  de  la  litterature,  Paris,  1940. 

21.  Cf.  Donald  Davidson,  "Yeats  and  the  Centaur,"  Southern  Review, 
VII  (1941),  pp.  510-16. 

22.  Arthur  Machen's  Hieroglyphics,  London,  1923,  ably  (if  untechnically, 
and  in  a  highly  romantic  version)  defends  the  view  that  religion  (i.e., 
myth  and  ritual)  constitutes  the  larger  climate  within  which  alone 
poetry  (i.e.,  symbolism,  aesthetic  contemplation)  can  breathe  and  grow. 

23.  The  standard  ancient  classification  of  the  schemes  and  tropes  is  Quin- 
tilian's  Institutes  of  Oratory.  For  the  most  elaborate  Elizabethan  treat- 


332  Notes  [pp.    200-20J 

ment,    cf.    Puttenham's   Arte   of  English   Poesie    (ed.    Willcock   and 
Walker),  Cambridge,  1936. 

24.  Karl  Biihler,  Sprachtheorie,  Jena,  1934,  p.  343;  Stephen  J.  Brown, 
The  World  of  Imagery,  p.  149  ff.,  and  Roman  Jakobson,  "Rand- 
bemerkungen  zur  Prosa  des  Dichters  Pasternak,"  Slavische  Rundschau, 

VII  (1935),  PP-  357-73- 

25.  D.  S.  Mirsky,  "Walt  Whitman:  Poet  of  American  Democracy,"  Critics 
Group  Dialectics,  No.  1,  1937,  pp.  11-29. 

26.  G.  Campbell,  Philosophy  of  Rhetoric,  London,   1776,  pp.   3 2 1,   326. 

27.  Richards,  Philosophy  of  Rhetoric,  London,  1936,  p.  117,  calls  Camp- 
bell's first  type  the  "verbal  metaphor,"  for  he  holds  that  literary 
metaphor  is  not  a  verbal  linkage  but  a  transaction  between  contexts,  an 
analogy  between  objects. 

28.  Cf.  Milman  Parry,  "The  Traditional  Metaphor  in  Homer,"  Classical 
Philology,  XXVIII  (1933),  pp.  30-43.  Parry  makes  clear  Aristotle's 
unhistoric  identification  of  Homer's  metaphorism  with  that  of  later 
poets;  compares  Homer's  "fixed  metaphors"  to  those  of  Old  English 
poets  and  (more  restrictedly)  to  those  of  eighteenth-century  Augustans. 

29.  Cf,  C.  Bally,  Traite  de  stylistique  frangaise,  Heidelberg,  1 909,  Vol. 
I,  p.  184  ff.:  "La  langage  figure."  On  pp.  194-5,  Bally,  speaking 
not  as  a  literary  theorist  but  as  a  linguist,  classifies  metaphors  as: 
"Images  concretes,  saisies  par  l'imagination,  images  affectives,  saisies 
par  une  operation  intellectuelle.  .  .  ."  His  three  categories  I  should 
call  (1)  poetic  metaphor;  (2)  ritual  ("fixed")  metaphor;  and  (3)  lin- 
guistic (etymological,  or  buried)  metaphor. 

30.  For  a  defense  of  ritual  metaphor  and  guild  images  in  the  style  of 
Milton,  cf.  C.  S.  Lewis,  Preface  to  Paradise  Lost,  London,  1942, 
pp.  39  ff. 

31.  Cf.  Heinz  Werner,  Die  Urspriinge  der  Metapher,  Leipzig,   191 9. 

32.  Hermann  Pongs,  Das  Bild  in  der  Dichtung.  I:  Versuch  einer  Mor- 
phologie  der  metaphorischen  Formen.  Marburg,  1927.  II:  Vorunter- 
suchungen  zum  Symbol.  Marburg,  1939. 

33.  L.  B.  Osborn,  The  .  .  .  Writings  of  John  Hoskyns,  New  Haven,  1937, 
p.  125;  George  Campbell,  Philosophy  of  Rhetoric,  pp.  335-7;  A.  Pope, 
The  Art  of  Sinking;  A.  Dion,  UArt  d'ecrire,  Quebec,  191 1,  pp. 
1 1 1-2. 

34.  Thomas  Gibbons,  Rhetoric  .   .   .  ,  London,  1767,  pp.  15-16. 

35.  John  Dryden,  Essays  (ed.  W.  P.  Ker),  Oxford,  1 900,  Vol.  I,  p.  247 
("Dedication  of  The  Spanish  Friar"). 

36.  Cf.  I.  A.  Richards,  Philosophy  of  Rhetoric,  London,  1936,  pp.  117- 
18:  "A  very  broad  division  may  be  made  between  metaphors  which 
work  through  some  direct  resemblance  between  the  two  things,   the 


ff.  208-211]  Notes  333 

tenor  and  the  vehicle,  and  those  which  work  through  some  common 
attitude  which  we  may  .  .  .  take  up  towards  them  both." 

37.  The  later  Shakespeare  abounds  in  rapidly  shifting  figures,  what  older 
pedagogues  would  call  "mixed  metaphors."  Shakespeare  thinks  quicker 
than  he  speaks,  one  could  put  it,  says  Wolfgang  Clemen,  Shakesfeares 
Bilder  .   .   .   ,  Bonn,  1936,  p.  144. 

38.  H.  W.  Wells,  Poetic  Imagery,  New  York,  1924,  p.  127. 

As  characteristic  users  of  the  Radical  image,  Wells  {of.  cit.,  pp. 
136-7)  cites  Donne,  Webster,  Marston,  Chapman,  Tourneur,  and 
Shakespeare,  and  out  of  the  late  nineteenth  century,  George  Meredith 
(whose  Modem  Love  he  pronounces  "an  unusually  condensed  and  in- 
teresting body  of  symbolic  thought")  and  Francis  Thompson.  From 
Thompson  come  the  lines: 

"At  evening,  when  the  lank  and  rigid  trees 
To  the  mere  forms  of  their  sweet  day-selves  drying 
On  heaven's  blank  leaf  seem  fressed  and  flattened.''' 

39.  The  imagery  of  Macbeth  is  brilliantly  considered  by  Clean th  Brooks 
in  "The  Naked  Babe  and  the  Cloak  of  Manliness,"  The  Well  Wrought 
Urn,  New  York,  1947,  pp.  21-46. 

40.  As  far  back  as  Quintilian  {Institutes,  Bk.  VIII,  chap.  6),  a  basic  dis- 
tinction between  kinds  of  metaphors  has  been  felt  to  equate  the  dis- 
tinction between  organic  and  inorganic.  Quintilian's  four  kinds  are: 
one  sort  of  living  thing  for  another;  one  inanimate  thing  for  another; 
the  inanimate  put  for  the  animate;  and  the  animate  put  for  the  in- 
animate. 

Pongs  calls  the  first  of  his  types  the  Beseeltyfus  and  the  second  the 
Erfuhltyfus.  The  first  animizes  or  anthropomorphizes;  the  second 
empathizes. 

41.  For  Ruskin  on  the  "Pathetic  Fallacy,"  cf.  Modem  Painters,  London, 
1856,  Vol.  Ill,  Pt.  4.  The  examples  cited  exempt  the  simile  from 
indictment  because  it  keeps  natural  fact  separate  from  emotional 
evaluation. 

On  the  polar  heresies  of  Anthropomorphism  and  Symbolism,  cf. 
M.  T.-L.  Penido's  brilliant  book,  Le  Role  de  I'analogie  en  theologie 
dogmatique,  Paris,  193 1,  p.  197  ff. 

42.  M.  A.  Ewer,  Survey  of  Mystical  Symbolism,  London,  1933,  p.  164-6. 

43.  Vossler,  Spengler,  T.  E.  Hulme  {Speculations,  London,  1924),  and 
Yeats,  as  well  as  Pongs,  have  been  stimulated  by  Wilhelm  Worringer's 
Abstraktion  und  Einfiihlung,  Berlin,  1908. 

Our  first  quotation  comes  from  Joseph  Frank's  admirable  study  of 
"Spatial  Form  in  Modern  Literature,"  Sewanee  Review,  LIII  (1945), 


334  Notes  [pp.  211-215 

p.  64.5 ;  our  second  from  Spengler,  who  quotes  Worringer  in  his  dis- 
cussion of  the  Magian  culture,  Decline  of  the  West,  New  York,  1926, 
Vol.  I,  pp.  183  ff.,  192. 

44.  Cf.  Ernest  Kris,  "Approaches  to  Art,"  in  Psychoanalysis  Today  (ed. 
S.  Lorand),  New  York,  1944,  pp.  360-2. 

45.  W.  B.  Yeats,  Autobiography,  New  York,  1938,  pp.  161,  219-25. 

46.  K.  Vossler,  Spirit  of  Language  in  Civilization  (tr.,  London,  1932), 
p.  4.  Karl  Vossler  well  remarks  that  mages  and  mystics  are  permanent 
and  opposed  types.  "There  is  constant  strife  between  magic,  which  uses 
language  as  a  tool  and  thereby  seeks  to  bring  as  much  as  possible,  even 
God,  under  its  control,  and  mysticism,  which  breaks,  makes  valueless, 
and  rejects,  all  forms." 

47.  H.  Pongs,  Das  Bild,  Vol.  I,  p.  296. 

48.  Emily  Dickinson,  Collected  Poems,  Boston,  1937,  pp.  192,  161;  cf. 
also  p.  38  ("I  laughed  a  wooden  laugh")  and  p.  215  ("A  clock 
stopped — not  the  mantel's"). 

49.  For  the  significance  of  Byzantium,  cf.  Yeats'  A  Vision,  London,  1938, 
pp.  279-81. 

50.  Hermann  Nohl,  Stil  und  W eltanschauung,  Jena,  1920. 

51.  Cf.  Emile  Cailliet,  Symbolisme  et  ames  primitives,  Paris,  1936,  for 
a  remarkably  unblushing,  uncritical  acceptance  of  equivalence  between 
the  prelogical  mind  of  primitive  peoples  and  the  aims  of  Symboliste 
poets.  To  the  abstracting,  conceptual  operations  of  the  modern  post- 
Cartesian  intellect,  Cailliet  contrasts  the  "participation  mystique"  of 
primitive  man  and  the  poet,  the  inability  to  distinguish  between  sign 
and  thing  signified. 

52.  MacNeice,  of.  cit.,  p.  111. 

53.  Cf.  Harold  Rosenberg,  "Myth  and  Poem,"  Symposium,  II  (1931), 
pp.  179  ff- 

54.  Gladys  Wade,  Thomas  Traherne,  Princeton,  1944,  pp.  26-37.  C/« 
the  critical  review  of  the  book  by  E.  N.  S.  Thompson,  Philological 
Quarterly,  XXIII  (1944),  pp.  383-4. 

55.  Dr.  Johnson,  Lives  of  the  Poets,  "Thomson." 

On  the  argument  from  imagistic  silence,  including  the  examples 
we  cite,  cf.  L.  H.  Hornstein's  penetrating  "Analysis  of  Imagery," 
PMLA,  LVII  (1942),  pp.  638-53. 

56.  Mario  Praz,  English  Studies,  XVIII  (1936),  pp.  177-81,  wittily  re- 
views Miss  Spurgeon's  Shakespeare's  Imagery  and  What  It  Tells  Us 
(Cambridge,  1935),  especially  its  first  part,  "The  Revelation  of  the 
Man,"  with  its  "fallacy  of  trying  to  read  .  .  .  into  Shakespeare's 
images  his  senses,  tastes,  and  interests,"  and  rightly  praises  Clemen 
(whose  book  appeared  in  1936)   for  thinking  that  "Shakespeare's  use 


pp.  216-225]  Notes  335 

and  choice  of  images  is  not  so  much  conditioned  by  his  own  personal 
tastes  as  by  what  are  in  each  case  his  artistic  intentions.   .   .   ." 

57.  Miss  Spurgeon's  essay  is  reprinted  in  Anne  Bradby's  Shakespeare  Criti- 
cism, igig-^Si  London,  1936,  pp.  18-61. 

On  autobiography  and  Hamlet,  cf.  C.  J.  Sisson,  The  Mythical  Sor- 
rows of  Shakespeare,  London,  1936. 

58.  T.  S.  Eliot,  "Hamlet,"  Selected  Essays,  London,  1932,  pp.  141-6. 

59.  G.  Wilson  Knight:  Myth  and  Miracle:  An  Essay  on  the  Mystic  Sym- 
bolism of  Shakespeare,  London,  1929;  The  Wheel  of  Fire,  London, 
1 930;  The  Imperial  Theme,  London,  1 931;  The  Christian  Renais- 
sance, Toronto,  1933;  The  Burning  Oracle,  London,  1939;  The 
Starlit  Dome,  London,  1941. 

60.  Wolfgang  Clemen,  Shakespeares  Bilder,  Bonn,  1936. 


CHAPTER    XVI 

The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Narrative  Fiction 

1.  Sidney:  "Now  for  the  poet,  he  nothing  affirmeth,  and  therefore  never 
lieth." 

2.  Wilson  Follett,  The  Modern  Novel,  New  York,  1 91 8,  p.  29. 

3.  The  reader's  exhortation  that  the  novelist  "deal  with  life"  is  often 
"an  exhortation  to  preserve  certain  conventions  of  nineteenth-century 
prose  fiction":  Kenneth  Burke,  Counter  statement,  New  York,  193 1, 
p.  238;  cf.  also  p.  182  and  p.  219. 

4.  D.  McCarthy,  Portraits,  London,  193 1,  pp.  75,  156. 

5.  J.  Frank,  "Spatial  Form  in  Modern  Literature,"  Sezvanee  Review, 
LI II  (1945),  pp.  221-40,  433-56.  Reprinted  in  Criticism  (Schorer, 
Miles,  McKenzie),  New  York,  1948,  pp.  379-92. 

6.  The  first  two  chapters  of  Pride  and  Prejudice  are  almost  exclusively 
dialogue,  while  the  third  chapter  opens  with  narrative  summary,  then 
returns  to  the  "scenic"  method. 

7.  Clara  Reeve,  Progress  of  Romance,  London,  1785. 

8.  Hawthorne,  prefaces  to  The  House  of  the  Seven  Gables  and  The 
Marble  Faun. 

9.  Poe's  "Philosophy  of  Composition"  opens  with  a  quotation  from 
Dickens:  "Are  you  aware  that  Godwin  wrote  his  Caleb  Williams  back- 
wards?" Earlier,  in  a  review  of  Barnaby  Rudge,  Poe  had  cited  God- 
win's novel  as  a  masterpiece  of  close  plotting. 

10.  Motif  is  commonly  used  in  English  criticism;  but  A.  H.  Krappe, 
Science  of  Folklore,  London,  1930,  sensibly  urges  that  we  use  the 
English  motive  instead  of  the  French  form,  which  in  turn  acquired 
its  sense  under  the  influence  of  the  German  Motiv. 


336  Notes  [pp.  225-228 

11.   Cf.  Aarne-Thompson,  Types  of  the  Folk-Tale,  Helsinki,  1928. 
I  2.   Cf.  G.  Polti,  Thirty-six  Dramatic  Situations,  New  York,  191 6;  P.  Van 
Tieghem,  La  litterature  comparee,  Paris,  193  1,  p.  87  ff. 

13.  Sir  Walter  Scott,  quoted  by  S.  L.  Whitcomb,  Study  of  a  Novel,  Boston, 
1905,  p.  6.  Whitcomb  calls  motivation  "a  technical  term  to  denote  the 
causation  of  the  plot-movement,  especially  in  reference  to  its  conscious 
artistic  arrangement." 

The  opening  sentence  of  Pride  and  Prejudice  is  a  good  example  of 
"motivation"  explicitly  (even  parodically)  stated:  "It  is  a  truth  uni- 
versally acknowledged,  that  a  single  man  in  possession  of  a  good  for- 
tune must  be  in  want  of  a  wife." 

14.  Dibelius,  Dickens,  2nd  ed.,  Leipzig,  1926,  p.  383. 

15.  We  refer  here  especially  to  Tomashevsky's  treatment  of  "Thema- 
tology"  in  his  Teoriya  literatury,  Leningrad,  193  1. 

16.  Cf.  the  discussion  of  "tempo"  in  Carl  Grabo's  Technique  of  the  Novel, 
New  York,  1928,  pp.  214-36,  and  "Zeit"  in  Petsch's  Wesen  und  For- 
men  der  Erzahlkunst,  Halle,  1934,  p.  92  ff. 

17.  Cf.  E.  Berend,  "Die  Namengebung  bei  Jean  Paul,"  PMLA,  LVII 
(1942),  pp.  820-50;  E.  H.  Gordon,  "The  Naming  of  Characters  in 
the  Works  of  Dickens,"  University  of  Nebraska  Studies  in  Language, 
etc.,  191 7;  also  John  Forster's  Life  of  Dickens,  Bk.  IX,  Ch.  7,  citing 
lists  of  names  from  the  novelist's  memoranda. 

Henry  James  talks  out  the  naming  of  his  characters  in  the  memo- 
randa printed  at  the  end  of  his  unfinished  novels,  The  Ivory  Tower 
and  The  Sense  of  the  Past  (both  191 7).  Cf.  also  James'  Notebooks 
(ed.  Matthiessen  and  Murdock),  New  York,  1947,  pp.  7-8  and 
passim. 

On  Balzac's  character-naming,  cf.  E.  Faguet,  Balzac  (Eng.  tr.,  Lon- 
don, 1914),  p.  120;  and  on  Gogol's,  V.  Nabokov's  Gogol,  New  York, 
1944,  p.  85  ff. 

18.  Flat  and  round  characterization:  cf.  E.  M.  Forster,  Aspects  of  the 
Novel,  London,  1927,  pp.   103-4. 

19.  On  the  typology  of  English  heroines,  cf.  R.  P.  Utter  and  G.  B.  Need- 
ham,  Pamela's  Daughters,  New  York,  1936.  On  the  polarity  of  light 
and  dark  heroines,  cf.  F.  Carpenter,  "Puritans  Preferred  Blondes," 
New  England  Quarterly,  IX  (1936),  pp.  253-72;  Philip  Rahv,  "The 
Dark  Lady  of  Salem,"  Partisan  Review,  VIII  (1941),  pp.  3 6 2-8 1. 
Maggie  Tulliver  (Mill  on  the  Floss,  Bk.  V,  Ch.  4)  protests,  "I'm 
determined  to  read  no  more  books  where  the  blond-haired  women 
carry  away  all  the  happiness.  ...  I  want  to  avenge  Rebecca,  and 
Flora  Maclvor,  and  Minna  and  all  the  rest  of  the  dark  unhappy 
ones." 


ff.  228-235}  Notes  337 

20.  Dibelius,  Dickens,  Leipzig,  1916. 

21.  Mario  Praz,  The  Romantic  Agony,  London,  1933. 

22.  Cf.  Arthur  Sewell,  "Place  and  Time  in  Shakespeare's  Plays,"  Studies 
in  Philology,  XLII  (1945),  pp.  205-24. 

23.  Cf.  P.  Lubbock,  Craft  of  Fiction,  London,  1 921,  pp.  205-35. 

24.  Otto  Ludwig,  "Romanstudien,"  Gesammelte  Schriften,  VI  (1891),  p. 
59  ff.;  Maupassant,  Introduction  to  Pierre  et  Jean  (1887);  H.  James, 
Prefaces  to  the  New  York  Edition  (collected  as  The  Art  of  the  Novel, 
New  York,  1 934).  Cf.  also  Oskar  WalzePs  "Objektive  Erzahlung,"  in 
Das  Wortkunstwerk,  Leipzig,  1926,  p.  182  ff.,  and  J.  W.  Beach,  The 
Twentieth  Century  Novel,  New  York,  1932. 

25.  Ludwig,  of.  cit.,  pp.  66-7:  The  structure  of  Dickens'  novels  is  analo- 
gous to  that  of  plays.  "Seine  Romane  sind  erzahlte  Dramen  mit 
Zwischenmusik,  d.i.,  erzahlter." 

On  James  and  Ibsen,  cf.  Francis  Fergusson,  "James'  Idea  of  Dra- 
matic Form,"  Kenyon  Review,  V  (1943),  pp.  495-507. 

26.  On  "picture"  and  "scene,"  cf.  James'  Art  of  the  Novel,  pp.  298-300, 

322-3- 

27.  Ibid.,  pp.  320-1,  327-9.  James  attacks  narration  in  the  first  person  as 
well  as  the  "mere  muffled  majesty  of  irresponsible  'authorship'  "  (the 
omniscient  narrator). 

28.  R.  Fernandez,  "La  methode  de  Balzac:  Le  recit  et  1'esthetique  du 
roman,"  Messages,  Paris,  1926,  p.  59  ff. 

29.  Oskar  Walzel,  "Von  'erlebter  Rede,'  "  Das  Wortkunstwerk,  Leipzig, 
1926,  p.  207  ff. ;  Albert  Thibaudet,  Flaubert,  Paris,  1935,  pp.  229-32; 
E.  Dujardin,  Le  monologue  interieur  .  .  .  ,  Paris,  193  1 ;  Wm.  James, 
Principles  of  Psychology,  New  York,  1890,  Vol.  I,  p.  243:  chap.  IX, 
in  which  the  phrase  appears,  is  called  "The  Stream  of  Thought." 

30.  Lubbock,  of.  cit.,  p.  147.  "When  Strether's  mind  is  dramatized,  noth- 
ing is  shown  but  the  passing  images  that  anybody  might  detect,  looking 
down  upon  a  mind  grown  visible"  {ibid.,  p.  162). 

31.  Cf.  Lawrence  Bowling,  Dramatizing  the  Mind:  A  Study  in  the  Stream 
of  Consciousness  Method  of  Narration  (Iowa  doctoral  dissertation, 
1946). 

CHAPTER    XVII 

Literary  Genres 

1.  Croce,  Aesthetic  (tr.  Ainslie),  London,  1922.  Cf.  Chs.  IX  and  XV. 

2.  N.  H.  Pearson,  "Literary  Forms  and  Types  .  .  .  ,"  English  Institute 
Annual,  1940  (1941),  p.  59  ff.,  especially  p.  70. 

3.  W.  P.  Ker,  Form  and  Style  in  Poetry,  London,  1928,  p.  141. 


338  Notes  [ff.  235-238 

4.  Harry  Levin,  "Literature  as  an  Institution,"  Accent,  VI  (1946),  pp. 
159-68. 

5.  A.  Thibaudet,  Physiologie  de  la  Critique,  Paris,  1930,  p.  184  ff. 

6.  But  cf.  C.  E.  Whitmore,  "The  Validity  of  Literary  Definitions," 
PMLA,  XXXIX  (1924),  pp.  722-36,  especially  pp.  734-5. 

7.  Karl  Vietor,  "Probleme  der  litearischen  Gattungsgeschichte,"  Deutsche 
Vierteljahrschrijt  fur  Literaturzvissenschaft  .  .  .  ,  IX  (1931),  pp. 
425-47:  an  admirable  discussion  which  avoids  positivism  on  the  one 
hand  and  "metaphysicalism"  on  the  other. 

8.  Goethe  calls  ode,  ballad,  and  the  like  "Dichtarten,"  while  epic,  lyric, 
and  drama  are  "Naturformen  der  Dichtung" — "Es  gibt  nur  drei 
echte  Naturformen  der  Poesie:  die  klar  erzlihlende,  die  enthusiastisch 
aufgeregte  und  die  personlich  handelnde:  Epos,  Lyrik,  und  Drama" 
(Notes  to  W  est-ostlicher  Divan,  Goethe's  Werke,  Jubilaumsausgabe, 
Vol.  V,  pp.  223-4).  English  terminology  is  troublesome:  we  might  well 
use  "types"  of  our  major  categories  (as  does  N.  H.  Pearson)  and 
"genres"  of  the  species,  tragedy,  comedy,  the  ode,  etc. 

The  word  genre  is  late  in  establishing  itself  in  English.  In  its  lit- 
erary sense,  it  does  not  appear  in  the  N.E.D.  (nor  does  kind) ;  eight- 
eenth-century writers,  e.g.,  Johnson  and  Blair,  commonly  use  species, 
as  the  term  for  "literary  kind."  In  1910,  Irving  Babbitt  (preface  to 
The  Nezv  Laokoon)  speaks  of  genre  as  becoming  established  in  English 
critical  usage. 

Pedagogically,  American  practice  seems  to  employ  "types" — for 
both  the  major  kinds  and  their  subdivisions.  Cf.  Irvin  Ehrenpreis'  The 
Types  Approach  to  Literature,  New  York,  1945,  which  follows  a 
survey  of  the  history  of  genre  theory  with  an  account  of  American 
literary  education,  collegiate  and  secondary,  and  its  division  of  atten- 
tion between  "kinds,"  and  periods,  and  other  modes  of  organization. 

9.  "Plato  is  mightily  aware  of  the  ethical  dangers  of  impersonation.  For 
a  man  damages  his  own  vocation  if  he  is  allowed  to  imitate  the  callings 
of  others.  .  .  ."  James  J.  Donohue,  The  Theory  of  Literary  Kinds 
.   .   .  ,  Dubuque,  Iowa,  1943,  p.  88. 

For  Aristotle,  ibid.,  p.  99. 

10.  Hobbes,  in  Critical  Essays  of  the  Seventeenth  Century  (ed.  J.  E.  Spin- 
garn),  1908,  pp.  54-5. 

11.  E.  S.  Dallas,  Poetics:  An  Essay  on  Poetry,  London,  1852,  pp.  81,  91, 
105. 

12.  John  Erskine,  The  Kinds  of  Poetry,  New  York,  1920,  p.  12. 

13.  Roman  Jakobson,  "Randbemerkungen  zur  Prosa  des  Dichters  Paster- 
nak," Slavische  Rundschau,  VII  (1935),  pp.  357~73- 


ff.  238-243]  Notes  339 

14.  On  the  oral  recitation  of  poetry,  John  Erskine  (The  Elizabethan 
Lyric,  New  York,  1903,  p.  3)  points  out  the  tradition  survived  as  late 
as  Wordsworth,  who,  in  the  "Preface"  (18 1 5)  of  his  poems  says: 
"Some  of  these  pieces  are  essentially  lyrical;  and,  therefore,  cannot 
have  their  due  force  without  a  supposed  musical  accompaniment;  but, 
in  much  the  greatest  part,  as  a  substitute  for  the  classic  lyre  or  romantic 
harp,  I  require  nothing  more  than  an  animated  or  impassioned  recita- 
tion, adapted  for  the  subject." 

15.  While  Shaw  and  Barrie  made  a  bid  for  a  double  audience  by  their 
prefaces  and  their  novelistically  detailed,  imagistically  suggestive  stage 
directions,  the  whole  tendency  of  dramaturgic  doctrine  today  is  against 
any  judgment  of  a  play  divorced  from,  not  inclusive  of,  its  stagecraft- 
ness  or  theaterness:  the  French  tradition  (Coquelin,  Sarcey)  and  the 
Russian  (Stanislavsky — Moscow  Art  Theatre)  agree  on  this.  The  con- 
sequence is  interestingly  illustrated  in  Eric  Bentley's  review  of  Under- 
standing Drama  (Kenyon  Review,  VIII  (1946),  p.  333  ff.). 

16.  Veit  Valentin  ("Poetische  Gattungen,"  Zeitschrift  fur  vergleichende 
Litteraturgeschichte,  Vol.  V,  1892,  p.  34  ff.)  also,  on  different  grounds, 
questions  the  canonical  three.  One  should,  he  says,  distinguish  "die 
epische,  die  lyrische,  und  die  reflektierende  Gattung  .  .  .  die  Dra- 
matik  ist  keine  poetische  Gattung,  sondern  eine  poetische  Form." 

17.  Thibaudet,  of.  cit.,  p.  186. 

18.  Aristotle,  Poetics,  chap.  14:  "One  should  not  seek  every  pleasure  from 
tragedy  but  only  that  proper  to  it." 

19.  More  accurately,  the  eighteenth  century  has  two  octosyllabic  sequences, 
— a  comic  (going  back  to  Hudibras  and  coming  on  through  Swift  and 
Gay)  and  a  meditative-descriptive  (going  back  to  "L'  Allegro"  and, 
especially,  "II  Penseroso.") 

20.  Not  till  1849,  apparently,  were  the  "Lake  Poets"  first  definitely 
grouped  with  Shelley,  Keats,  and  Byron  as  English  Romantics.  Cf. 
Wellek,  "Periods  and  Movements,"  English  Institute  Annual,  igqo, 

21.  Paul  Van  Tieghem,  "La  Question  des  genres  litteraires,"  Helicon,  I 
(1938),  p.  95  ff. 

22.  There  are  already  many  monographs  on  the  Gothic  genre — e.g.,  Edith 
Birkhead,  The  Tale  of  Terror  .  .  .  ,  London,  1921;  A.  Killen,  Le 
Roman  Terrifiant  ou  Roman  Noir  .  .  .  ,  Paris,  1923;  Eino  Railo, 
The  Haunted  Castle,  London,  1927;  Montague  Summers,  The  Gothic 
Quest  .  .  .  ,  London,   1938. 

23.  Poetics,  chap.  24. 

24.  Cf.  Arthur  Mizener's  reply  to  Ransom:  "The  Structure  of  Figurative 
Language  in  Shakespeare's  Sonnets,"  Southern  Review,  V  (1940),  pp. 
73Q-47- 


340  Notes  [pp.  244-248 

25.  Cf.  Irving  Babbitt,  The  New  Laokoon,  1910. 

The    French    poet   Andre    Chenier    held    the    distinction    between 
genres  to  be  a  phenomenon  of  nature.  In  "L'Invention,"  he  writes: 

"La  nature  dicta  vingt  genres  opposes 
D'un  fil  leger  entre  eux  chez  les  Grecs  divises; 
Nul  genre,  s'ecartant  de  ses  bornes  prescrites, 
N'aurait  ose  d'un  autre  envahir  les  lijnites." 

26.  The  social  implications  of  the  Renaissance  genre  hierarchy,  long  fa- 
miliar, are  specifically  studied  in  Vernon  Hall's  Renaissance  Literary 
Criticism,  New  York,  1945. 

27.  Van  Tieghem,  op.  cit.,  p.  99. 

28.  Cf.,  e.g.,  Warner  F.  Patterson's  Three  Centuries  of  Trench  Poetic 
Theory  .  .  .  ,  Ann  Arbor,  1935,  Part  III,  for  a  list  of  medieval  verse 
genres  and  sub-genres. 

29.  Viktor  Shklovsky,  "Art  as  Device,"  Theory  of  Prose,  Moscow,  1925. 
Cf.  the  article  "Formalism,"  by  R.  Poggioli,  in  Shipley's  Dictionary 
of  World  Literature,  p.  254,  also  Kridl's  essay,  "Russian  Formalism," 
American  Bookman,  I  (1944),  pp.  19-30. 

30.  For  the  "rebarbarization"  of  literature,  cf.  the  brilliant  article,  "Lit- 
erature" by  Max  Lerner  and  Edwin  Mims,  Jr.,  Encyclopaedia  of  the 
Social  Sciences,  IX  (1933),  pp.  523-43. 

31.  Andre  Jolles,  Einfache  Formen,  Halle,  1930.  Jolles'  list  corresponds 
roughly  to  the  list  of  folk-types,  or  "forms  of  popular  literature," 
studied  by  Alexander  H.  Krappe  in  his  Scietice  of  Folk-Lore,  London, 
1930:  the  Fairy  Tale,  the  Merry  Tale  (or  Fabliau),  the  Animal 
Tale,  the  Local  Legend,  the  Migratory  Legend,  the  Prose  Saga,  the 
Proverb,  the  Folk-Song,  the  Popular  Ballad,  Charms,  Rhymes,  and 
Riddles. 

32.  Ferdinand  Brunetiere,  L' Evolution  des  genres  dans  I'histoire  de  la 
littirature  .   .   .   ,  Paris,  1898. 

33.  Van  Tieghem,  Helicon,  I  (1938),  p.  99. 

34.  Vietor  has  held  both  positions  in  turn:  cf.  his  Geschichte  der  deutschen 
Ode  (Munich,  1923)  and  "Probleme  der  literarischen  Gattungsge- 
schichte,"  cited  above;  also  Giinther  Miiller,  "Bemerkungen  zur  Gat- 
tungspoetik,"  Philosophischer  Anzeiger,  III  (1929),  pp.  129-47. 

CHAPTER    XVIII 

Evaluation 

I.   S.   C.   Pepper,   Basis  of  Criticism,   Cambridge,    Mass.,    1 945,   p.    33: 
"Definition — as  the  qualitative  criterion  of  aesthetic  judgment  deter- 


pp.  249-253]  Notes  341 

mining  what  is  or  is  not  an  aesthetic  value  and  whether  its  value  is 
positive  or  negative.  Intrinsic  standards — as  quantitative  criteria  deter- 
mining the  amount  of  aesthetic  value.  .  .  .  Standards  are  therefore 
derived  from  definitions:  the  quantitative  criteria  come  from  the 
qualitative." 

2.  We  are  talking  now  of  "literature,"  using  the  word  as  a  "qualitative  cri- 
terion" (whether  it  is  literary  in  its  nature — literature  and  not  science, 
social  science,  or  philosophy) ;  we  are  not  using  the  word  in  its 
honorific,  comparative  sense,  of  "great  literature." 

3.  Pepper  thus  puts  a  parallel  issue  {pp.  cit.,  p.  87  n.):  "A  hostile  writer 
is  likely  to  pose  the  dilemma:  either  explicit  practical  purpose  with  a 
definite  conceptual  goal  aimed  at  and  attained,  or  passive  enjoyment 
without  a  goal.  The  Kantian  antinomy  and  Bertram  Morris'  paradox 
of  an  aesthetic  purpose  that  is  not  a  set  purpose  break  the  dilemma  open 
and  strikingly  exhibit  this  third  sort  of  mental  being  which  is  neither 
conation  nor  sensation  but  a  specific  aesthetic  activity." 

4.  If  one  takes  the  inclusive  view,  he  does  not  deny  aesthetic  value  in 
literature,  but  asserts,  coexistent  with  it,  other  values;  and  in  his  judg- 
ment of  literature  he  either  blends  the  ethico-political  and  the  aesthetic 
or  he  makes  a  double  judgment.  Cf.  N.  Foerster,  "The  Aesthetic 
Judgment  and  the  Ethical  Judgment,"  The  Intent  of  the  Critic, 
Princeton,  1 94 1,  p.  85. 

5.  T.  M.  Greene,  The  Arts  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,  Princeton,  1940, 
p.  389. 

6.  "The  'greatness'  of  literature  cannot  be  determined  solely  by  literary 
standards,  though  we  must  remember  that  whether  it  is  literature  or 
not  can  be  determined  only  by  literary  standards."  Essays  Ancient  and 
Modern,  New  York,  1936,  p.  93. 

7.  On  Form,  cf.  W.  P.  Ker,  Form  and  Style  in  Poetry,  London,  1928, 
especially  pp.  95-104  and  pp.  137-45;  C.  La  Driere,  "Form,"  Dic- 
tionary of  World  Literature,  p.  250  ff. ;  R.  Ingarden,  Das  literarische 
Kunstwerk,  Halle,  193  I;  "Das  Form-Inhalt  Problem  im  literarischen 
Kunstwerk,"  1 93 1,  Helicon,  I  (1938),  pp.  51-67. 

8.  Emil  Lucka's  brilliant  essay,  "Das  Grundproblem  der  Dichtkunst," 
Zeitschrift  fur  Asthetik,  XXII  (1928),  pp.  129-46,  studies  "wie  sich 
Welt  in  Sprache  verwandelt.  .  .  ."  In  an  unsuccessful  poem  or  novel, 
says  Lucka,  "fehlt  die  Identitat  von  Welt  und  Sprache." 

9.  Cf.  Dorothy  Walsh,  "The  Poetic  Use  of  Language,"  Journal  of  Phi- 
losophy, XXXV  (1938),  pp.  73-81. 

10.  J.  Mukarovsky,  Aesthetic  Function,  Norm,  and  Value  as  Social  Facts, 
Prague,  1936,  in  Czech. 


342  Notes  [pp.  253-259 

11.  Pepper's  "contextualistic"  criticism  seems  largely  relevant  here,  for  its 
prime  test  is  vividness,  and  its  emphasis  is  on  contemporary  art  as 
most  likely  to  meet  the  test:  ".  .  .  if  the  art  of  an  earlier  age  appeals 
to  a  later,  it  is  often  for  other  than  the  original  reasons,  so  that  .  .  . 
critics  are  required  in  each  age  to  register  the  aesthetic  judgments  of 
that  age."  (Op.  cit.,  p.  68.) 

12.  George  Boas,  A  Primer  for  Critics,  Baltimore,  1937,  p.  1 36  and 
passim. 

13.  T.  S.  Eliot,  Use  of  Poetry,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1933,  p.  153. 

14.  This  is  Pepper's  "organistic  criticism"  (op.  cit.,  esp.  p.  79)  classically 
represented  by  Bosanquet's  Three  Lectures  on  Aesthetic,  London, 
1915. 

15.  We  have  already  cited  Eliot's  dictum.  Reference  should  be  made  to 
the  books  of  the  English  poet-critic,  Lascelles  Abercrombie,  who  has 
published  a  Theory  of  Poetry  and  also  an  Idea  of  Great  Poetry. 

16.  L.  A.  Reid,  A  Study  in  Aesthetics,  London,  193 1,  p.  225  ff.,  "Subject- 
matter,  Greatness,  and  the  Problem  of  Standards." 

17.  T.  M.  Greene,  The  Arts  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,  Princeton,  1940, 
pp.  374  ff.,  461  ff. 

18.  Cf.  particularly  E.  E.  Stoll's  "Milton  a  Romantic,"  From  Shakespeare 
to  Joyce,  New  York,  1944,  and  M.  Praz's  The  Romantic  Agony, 
London,  1933. 

19.  Eliot,  op.  cit.,  p.  96. 

20.  The  whole  subject  of  the  novel  (fictionality)  in  relation  to  human 
experience  is  fascinating  and  difficult.  Cf.  Jacques  Barzun,  "Our  Non- 
Fiction  Novelists,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  CLXXVIII  (1946),  pp.  129- 
32,  and  J.  E.   Baker,  "The  Science  of  Man,"   College  English,  VI 

(i945)>  PP-  395-401. 

21.  Tate,  Reason  in  Madness,  New  York,  194 1,  pp.  11 4-6. 

22.  E.  E.  Kellett,  The  Whirligig  of  Taste,  London,  1929,  and  Fashion  in 
Literature,  London,  1 93 1 ;  F.  P.  Chambers,  Cycles  of  Taste,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  1928,  and  The  History  of  Taste,  New  York,  1932; 
Henri  Peyre,  Writers  and  their  Critics:  a  Study  of  Misunderstanding, 
Ithaca,  1944. 

23.  "Multivalence":  cf.  George  Boas,  A   Primer  for  Critics,   Baltimore, 

1937. 

24.  F.  Pottle,  The  Idiom  of  Poetry,  Ithaca,  1 941 ;  new  ed.,  1947. 

25.  The  critics  of  the  eighteenth  century  "were  unable  to  explain  the 
virtues  of  the  poetry  of  earlier  periods,  and,  for  that  matter,  of  their 
own  period"  (Cleanth  Brooks,  "The  Poem  as  Organism,"  English  In- 
stitute Annual,  ig^o,  New  York,  1941,  p.  24). 


ff.  260-264]  Notes  343 

26.  "Dr.  Johnson  tried  to  describe  Donne's  poetry  by  its  defects.  .  .  ." 
"The  best  justice  that  we  can  do  its  shortcomings  [those  of  metaphys- 
ical poetry]  is  to  judge  them  by  the  normal  standards  of  good  poetry, 
and  not  to  excuse  them  in  the  name  of  quaintness  and  intellectual  frip- 
pery. Let  Jonson  be  such  a  standard,  and  .  .  .  the  Donne  tradition 
will  be  found  to  contain  a  large  body  of  verse  that  meets  the  usual 
requirements  of  English  poetry,  and  at  times  as  well  is  the  finest." 
(George  Williamson,  The  Donne  Tradition,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1 930, 
pp.  21,  211.) 

27.  F.  R.  Leavis,  Revaluation:  Tradition  and  Development  in  English 
Poetry,  London,  1936,  p.  68  if. 

28.  Vivas,  "The  Esthetic  Judgment,"  Journal  of  Philosophy,  XXXIII 
(1936),  pp.  57-69.  Cf.  Bernard  Heyl,  New  Bearings  in  Esthetics  and 
Art  Criticism,  New  Haven,  1943,  p.  91  ff.,  especially  p.  123.  Heyl 
rules  out  the  extremes  of  "objectivism"  and  (much  more  easily)  of 
"subjectivism"  in  order  to  expound  "relativism,"  intended  as  a  sen- 
sible via  media. 

29.  "Eriger  en  lois  ses  impressions  personnelles,  c'est  le  grand  effort  d'un 
homme  s'il  est  sincere."  Eliot  quotes  this,  from  de  Gourmont's  Lettres 
a  V 'Amazon,  as  epigraph  to  his  essay,  "The  Perfect  Critic/'  opening 
The  Sacred  Wood,  1920. 

30.  As  does  Mr.  Heyl  {New  Bearings,  p.  91). 

CHAPTER    XIX 

Literary  History 

1.  Thomas  Warton,  History  of  English  Poetry,  I  (1774),  p.  ii.  A  fuller 
discussion  may  be  found  in  Rene  Wellek's  Rise  of  English  Literary 
History,  Chapel  Hill,  1 941,  pp.  1 66-20 1. 

2.  Henry  Morley,  Preface  to  English  Writers,  I,  London,  1864. 

3.  Leslie  Stephen,  English  Literature  and  Society  in  the  Eighteenth  Cen- 
tury, London,  1904,  pp.  14,  22. 

4.  W.  J.  Courthope,  A  History  of  English  Poetry,  London,  1895,  Vol.  I, 
p.  xv. 

5.  Edmund  Gosse,  A  Short  History  of  Modem  English  Literature  (Lon- 
don, 1897),  Preface. 

6.  Cf.  letter  to  F.  C.  Roe,  March  19,  1924,  quoted  by  Evan  Charteris, 
The  Life  and  Letters  of  Sir  Edmund  Gosse,  London,  1931,  p.  477. 

7.  Cf.  the  quotations  in  Oliver  Elton's  lecture  on  Saintsbury,  Proceedings 
of  the  British  Academy,  XIX  (1933),  and  Dorothy  Richardson, 
"Saintsbury  and  Art  for  Art's  Sake,"  PMLA,  LIX  (1944),  pp.  243-60. 


344  Notes  [fp.  264-273 

8.  Oliver  Elton,  A  Survey  of  English  Literature,  1780-1830,  London, 
191 2,  Vol.  I,  p.  vii. 

9.  L.  Cazamian,  U  Evolution  fsychologique  de  la  litterature  en  Angle- 
terre,  Paris,  1920,  and  the  second  half  of  E.  Legouis  and  L.  Cazamian, 
Histoire  de  la  litterature  anglaise,  Paris,  1924. 

10.  W.  P.  Ker,  "Thomas  Warton"  (1910),  Essays,  London,  1922.  Vol.  I, 
p.  100. 

11.  T.  S.  Eliot,  "Tradition  and  Individual  Talent,"  The  Sacred  Wood, 
London,  1920,  p.  42. 

12.  R.  S.  Crane,  "History  versus  Criticism  in  the  University  Study  of 
Literature,"  The  English  Journal,  College  Edition,  XXIV  (1935), 
pp.  645-67. 

13.  F.  J.  Teggart,  Theory  of  History,  New  Haven,  1925. 

14.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III. 

15.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III. 

16.  R.  D.  Havens,  Milton's  Influence  on  English  Poetry,  Cambridge, 
Mass.,   1922. 

1 7.  Cf.  these  discussions:  R.  N.  E.  Dodge's  "A  Sermon  on  Source-hunt- 
ing," Modern  Philology,  IX  (1911-12),  pp.  211-23;  Hardin  Craig, 
"Shakespeare  and  Wilson's  Arte  of  Rhetorique:  An  Inquiry  into  the 
Criteria  for  Determining  Sources,"  Studies  in  Philology,  XXVIII 
(193  1 ),  pp.  86-98;  George  C.  Taylor,  "Montaigne — Shakespeare  and 
the  Deadly  Parallel,"  Philological  Quarterly,  XXII  (1943),  pp.  330- 
37  (giving  a  curious  list  of  the  75  types  of  evidence  actually  used  in 
such  studies)  ;  David  Lee  Clark,  "What  was  Shelley's  Indebtedness 
to  Keats?"  PMLA,  LVI  (1941),  pp.  479-97  (an  interesting  refuta- 
tion of  parallels  drawn  by  J.  L.  Lowes). 

18.  Cf.  H.  O.  White,  Plagiarism  and  Imitation  during  the  English  Renais- 
sance, Cambridge,  Mass.,  1935;  Elizabeth  M.  Mann,  "The  Problem 
of  Originality  in  English  Literary  Criticism,  1 750-1 800,"  Philo- 
logical Quarterly,  XVIII  (1939),  pp.  97-118;  Harold  S.  Wilson, 
"Imitation,"  Dictionary  of  World  Literature  (ed.  J.  T.  Shipley), 
New  York,  1943,  pp.  315-17. 

19.  Sidney  Lee,  Elizabethan  Sonnets,  2  vols.,  London,   1904. 

20.  Wolfgang  Clemen,  Shakesfeares  Bilder,  ihre  Entzvicklung  und  ihre 
Funktionen  im  dramatischen  Werk,  Bonn,  1936. 

21.  George  Saintsbury,  A  History  of  English  Prosody,  3  vols.,  1 906-1 0; 
A  History  of  English  Prose  Rhythm,  Edinburgh,   1 91 2. 

22.  Benedetto  Croce,  "Storia  di  temi  e  storia  letteraria,"  Problemi  di 
Estetica,  Bari,   1 9 10,  pp.  80-93. 

23.  E.g.,  Andre  Jolles,  Einfache  Formen,  Halle,  1930;  A.  N.  Veselovsky, 
Istoricheskaya  Poetika,  ed.  V.  M.  Zhirmunsky,  Leningrad,  1940  (a  se- 


ft-  273~2^1]  Notes  345 

lection  from  writings  dating  back,  in  part,  to  the  1870's);  J.  Jarcho, 
"Organische  Struktur  des  russischen  Schnaderhiipfels  (castuska)," 
Germano-Slavica,  III  (1937),  pp.  31-64  (an  elaborate  attempt  to  state 
the  correlation  between  style  and  theme  by  statistical  methods,  draw- 
ing the  evidence  from  a  popular  genre). 

24.  W.  W.  Greg,  Pastoral  Poetry  and  Pastoral  Drama,  London,  1906. 

25.  C.  S.  Lewis,  The  Allegory  of  Love,  Oxford,  1936. 

26.  Karl  Vietor,  Geschichte  der  deutschen  Ode,  Munich,  1923;  Giinther 
Muller,  Geschichte  des  deutschen  Liedes,  Munich,  1925. 

27.  Karl  Vietor,  "Probleme  der  literarischen  Gattungsgeschichte,"  Deutsche 
Viertel jahrschrift  fur  Literaturzcissenschaft  und  G '  eistes geschichte,  IX 
(193  1 ),  pp.  425-47;  Giinther  Muller,  "Bemerkungen  zur  Gattungs- 
poetik,"  Philosofhischer  Anzeiger,  III  (1929),  pp.  129-47. 

28.  Arthur  Symons,  The  Romantic  Movement  in  English  Poetry,  London, 
1909. 

29.  Cf.  J.  Isaacs  in  the  London  Times  Literary  Supplement,  May  9,  1935, 
'     p.  301. 

30.  The  first  to  do  so  was  apparently  Thomas  Shaw  in  Outlines  of  English 
Literature,  London,  1849. 

31.  Cf.  A.  O.  Lovejoy,  "On  the  Discrimination  of  Romanticisms,"  PMLA, 
XXXIX  (1924),  pp.  229-53. 

32.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  I. 

33.  Wilhelm  Pinder,  Das  Problem  der  Generation,  Berlin,  1926;  Julius 
Petersen,  "Die  literarischen  Generationen,"  Philosophie  der  Litera- 
turzcissenschaft (ed.  Emil  Ermatinger),  Berlin,  1930,  pp.  1 30-87; 
Eduard  Wechssler,  Die  Generation  als  Jugendreihe  und  ihr  Kamff 
um  die  Denkform,  Leipzig,  1930;  Detlev  W.  Schumann,  "The  Prob- 
lem of  Cultural  Age-Groups  in  German  Thought:  a  Critical  Review," 
PMLA,  LI  (1936),  pp.  1 1 80-1 207,  and  "The  Problem  of  Age- 
Groups:  A  Statistical  Approach,"  PMLA,  LII  (1937),  pp.  596-608; 
H.  Peyre,  Les  Generations  litteraires  (Paris,  1948). 

34.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II. 

35.  Jan  Machal,  Slovanske  literatury,  3  vols.,  Prague,  1922-29,  and 
Leonardo  Olschki,  Die  romanischen  Literaturen  des  Mittelalters, 
Wildpark-Potsdam,  1928  (in  Handbuch  der  Literaturwissenschaft,  ed. 
Oskar  Walzel). 

36.  August  Wilhelm  Schlegel,  Uber  dramatise  he  Kunst  und  Literatur,  3 
vols.,  Heidelberg,  1 809-1 1;  Friedrich  Schlegel,  Geschichte  der  alten 
und  neuen  Litteratur,  Vienna,  181 5. 

37.  H.  M.  and  N.  K.  Chadwick,  The  Growth  of  Literature,  3  vols., 
London,  1932,  1936,  1940. 


346  Notes  [fp.  285-297 

CHAPTER    XX 

The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School 

1.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II,  1. 

2.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II,  2. 

3.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II,   3. 

4.  Cf.}  e.g.,  Daniel  Mornet,  "Comment  etudier  les  ecrivains  ou  les  ouv- 
rages  de  troisieme  ou  quatrieme  ordre,"  Romanic  Review,  XXXVIII 

(i937)>  PP-  204-16. 

5.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II,  3. 

6.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  II,  4. 

7.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  III. 

8.  Cf.  bibliography,  Section  IV. 

9.  S.  L.  and  L.  C.  Pressey  and  Elinor  J.  Barnes,  "The  Final  Ordeal," 
Journal  of  Higher  Education,  III  (1932),  pp.  261-64. 

10.  For  good  comments  on  this  situation,  cf.  Christian  Gauss,  "More  Hu- 
mane Letters,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945),  pp.  1306-12;  and  Leo  Spitzer, 
"Deutsche  Literaturforschung  in  Amerika,"  Monatshefte  fiir  deutschen 
Unterricht,  XXXVIII  (1946),  pp.  475-80. 

11.  Cf.  detailed  recommendations  in  Norman  Foerster,  "The  Teacher  of 
Great  Literature,"  Journal  of  General  Education,  I  (1947),  pp. 
107-13. 

12.  Cf.  Leo  Spitzer,  "A  New  Program  for  the  Teaching  of  Literary  His- 
tory," American  Journal  of  Philology,  LXIII  (1942),  pp.  308-19. 


Bibliography 

CHAPTER    I 

Literature  and  Literary  Study 

GENERAL    DISCUSSIONS    OF    LITERARY    THEORY    AND    METHODS    OF    LITERARY 
STUDY 

Baldensperger,    Fernand,    La   Litterature:    creation,    succes,    duree,    Paris, 

191 3  j  new  ed.,  Paris,  191 9 
Croce,  Benedetto,  La  Critica  letteraria:  Questions  teoriche,  Rome,  1894; 

reprinted  in  Primi  Saggi  (Second  ed.,  Bari,   1927),  pp.  77-199 
Cysarz,  Herbert,  Literaturgeschichte  ah  Geisteszvissenschaft,  Halle,   1926 
Daiches,  David,  A  Study  of  Literature,  Ithaca,  1948 

Dragomirescou,  Michel,  La  Science  de  la  litterature,  4  vols.,  Paris,  1928-9 
Eckhoff,  Lorentz,  Den  Nye  Litteraturforskning:  Syntetisk  Metode,  Oslo, 

1930 
Elster,  Ernst,  Prinzifien  der  Literaturzvissenschaft,  2  vols.,  Halle,   1897 

and  191 1 
Ermatinger,  Emil  (ed.),  Die  Philosofhie  der  Literaturzvissenschaft,  Berlin, 

1930 
Foerster,  Norman;  McGalliard,  John  C. ;  Wellek,  Rene;  Warren,  Austin; 

Schramm,  Wilbur  Lang,  Literary  Scholarship:  its  Aims  and  Methods, 

Chapel  Hill,  1 941 
Greenlaw,  Edwin,  The  Province  of  Literary  History,  Baltimore,   1 93 1 
Guerard,  Albert  L.,  A  Preface  to  World  Literature,  New  York,  1 940 
Hyman,  Stanley  Edgar,  The  Armed  Vision.  A  Study  in  the  Methods  of 

Modern  Literary  Criticism,  New  York,  1948 
Hytier,  Jean,  Les  Arts  de  litterature,  Paris,  1945 

Kridl,  Manfred,  Wstef  do  badan  nad  dzielem  literackiem,  Wilno,   1936 
Lacombe,  Paul,  Introduction  a  Phistoire  litteraire,  Paris,  1898 
Lanson,  Gustave,  "Histoire  litteraire,"  De  la  methode  dans  les  sciences, 

Deuxieme  serie  (Paris,  191 1),  pp.  221-64 

,  Methodes  de  Phistoire  litteraire,  Paris,  1925 

Morize,  Andre,  Problems  and  Methods  of  Literary  History,  Boston,  1922 
Moulton,  R.  G.,  The  Modern  Study  of  Literature,  Chicago,  191 5 
Oppel,  Horst,  Die  Literaturzvissenschaft  in  der  Gegenzvart:  Methodologie 

tind  Wissenschaftslehre,  Stuttgart,  1939 

347 


348  Bibltografhy 

Petersen,  Julius,  Die  Wissenschajt  von  der  Dichtung:  System  und  Metho- 

denlehre  der  Literaturzvissenschaft.  I,  Werk  und  Dichter,  Berlin,  1939 
Renard,  Georges,  La  Methode  scientifique  d'histoire  litteraire,  Paris,  1 900 
Reyes,  Alfonso,  El  Deslinde:  Prolegomenos  a  la  teoria  literaria,  Mexico 

City,  1944 
Rudler,  Gustave,  Les  Techniques  de  la  critique  et  de  Phistoire  litteraire 

en  litter ature  frangaise  moderne,  Oxford,  1923 
Schiitze,  Martin,  Academic  Illusions  in  the  Field  of  Letters  and  the  Arts, 

Chicago,  1933 
Shipley,  Joseph  T.   (ed.),  Dictionary   of  World  Literature:   Criticism — 

Forms — Technique,  New  York,  1943 
Tomashevsky,  Boris,  Teoriya  literatury:  Poetika,  Leningrad,   1925;  sixth 

ed.,  1931 
Vodicka,  Felix,  "Literarni  historie:  Jeji  problemy  a  ukoly,"  Cteni  0  jazyce 

a  foesii  (ed.  B.  Havranek  and  Jan  Mukafovsky),  Prague,  1942,  pp. 

307-400 
Walzel,  Oskar,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  dichterischen  Kunstzcerk,   Berlin, 

1923 
Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Theory  of  Literary  History,"   Travaux  du  Cercle 

Linguistique  de  Prague,  IV  (1936),  pp.   173-91 
Wosnessensky,  A.  N.,  "Der  Aufbau  der  Literaturwissenschaft,"  ldealistische 

Philologie,  III  (1928),  pp.  337-68 

CHAPTER    11 

The  Nature  of  Literature 

SOME   DISCUSSIONS  OF  THE   NATURE  OF  LITERATURE  AND  POETRY 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  Jr.,  Modern  Poetry  and  the  Tradition,  Chapel  Hill,  1939 

,  The  Well  Wrought  Urn,  New  York,  1947 

Buhler,  Karl,  Sfrachtheorie,  Jena,  1934 

Christiansen,  Broder,  Philosofhie  der  Kunst,  Hanau,  1909 

Croce,  Benedetto,  Estetica  come  scienza  delPexfressione  e  linguistica,  Bari, 
1902  (English  translation  by  Douglas  Ainslie,  London,  1929) 

■ ,  Poesia,  Bari,  1936 

,  "La  Teoria  dell'arte  come  pura  visibilita,"  Nuovi  Saggi  di  Es- 
tetica, Bari,  1920,  pp.  239-54 

Dessoir,  Max,  Aesthetik  und  allgemeine  Kunstwissenschaft,  Stuttgart,  1906 

Eastman,  Max,  The  Literary  Mind,  New  York,  1931 

Eliot,  T.  S.,  The  Use  of  Poetry  and  the  Use  of  Criticism,  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  1933 

Greene,  Theodore  Meyer,  The  Arts  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,  Princeton, 
1940 


Biblio  grafhy  349 

Ingarden,  Roman,  Das  literarische  Kunstwerk,  Halle,  1 93 1 

James,  D.  G.,  Scepticism  and  Poetry,  London,  1937 

Lutzeler,  Heinrich,  Einfiihrung  in  die  P  hilosophie  der  Kunst,  Bonn,  1934 

Meyer,  Theodor  A.,  Das  Stilgesetz  der  Poesie,  Leipzig,  1901 

Mukarovsky,  Jan,  "La  denomination  esthetique  et  la  fonction  esthetique 
de  la  langue,"  Actes  du  quatrieme  congres  international  des  linguistes, 
Copenhagen,  1938,  pp.  98-104 

Morris,  Charles,  "Aesthetics  and  the  Theory  of  Signs,"  Journal  of  Unified 
Science,  VIII  (1940),  pp.  1 31-50 

,  "Foundations  for  the  Theory  of  Signs,"  International  Encyclo- 
pedia of  Unified  Science,  I,  no.  2 
-,  Signs,  Language  and  Behavior,  New  York,  1 946 


Ogden,  C.  K.,  and  Richards,  I.  A.,  The  Meaning  of  Meaning:  A  Study  of 
the  Influence  of  Language  upon  Thought  and  of  the  Science  of  Sym- 
bolism, London,  1923;  seventh  ed.,  New  York,  1945 
Pollock,  Thomas  C,  The  Nature  of  Literature,  Princeton,  1942 
Pottle,  Frederick  A.,  The  Idiom  of  Poetry,  Ithaca,   1941;  new  enlarged 

ed.,  1946 
Ransom,  John  Crowe,  The  New  Criticism,  Norfolk,  Conn.,  1 94 1 

,  The  World's  Body,  New  York,  1938 

Richards,  Ivor  Armstrong,  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism,  London,  1925 
Smith,  Chard  Powers,  Pattern  and  Variation  in  Poetry,  New  York,  1932 
Staiger,  Emil,  Grundbegriffe  der  Poetik,  Zurich,  1946 
Stauffer,  Donald,  The  Nature  of  Poetry,  New  York,  1946 
Tate,  Allen  (ed.),  The  Language  of  Poetry,  Princeton,    1942   (essays  by 
Philip  Wheelwright,   I.   A.   Richards,   Cleanth    Brooks  and   Wallace 
Stevens) 

,  Reason  in  Madness:  Critical  Essays,  New  York,  1 94 1 

Wolff,  E.  G.,  Aesthetik  der  Dichtkunst:  Systematik  auf  erkenntniskritischer 
Grundlage,  Zurich,  1944 

CHAPTER    III 

The  Function  of  Literature 

SOME   DISCUSSIONS   OF   LITERATURE    AS    KNOWLEDGE 

Eastman,  Max,  The  Literary  Mind:  Its  Place  in  an  Age  of  Science,  New 

York,  1935 
Feibleman,  James,  "The  Logical  Value  of  the  Objects  of  Art,"  Journal  of 

Aesthetics,  I  (1941),  pp.  70-85 
Haines,  George,  "Art  Forms  and  Science  Concepts,"  Journal  of  Philosophy, 

XL  (i943)>  PP-  482-91 


350  Bibliography 

Harap,   Louis,    "What    is   Poetic   Truth?"   Journal   of   Philosophy,   XXX 

0933)>  PP.  477-88 
Hospers,  John,  Meaning  and  Truth  in  the  Arts,  Chapel  Hill,  1946 
Meyer,  Theodor  A.,  "Erkenntnis  unci  Poesie,"  Zeitschrift  fur  Asthetik, 

XIV  (1920),  pp.  113-29 
Morris,  Charles  W.,  "Science,  Art,  and  Technology,"  Kenyon  Review,  I 

(l939)5  PP-  409-23 
Ransom,    John    Crowe,    "The   Pragmatics   of   Art,"   Kenyon   Review,    II 

(1940),  pp.  76-87 
Roellinger,  F.  X.,  Jr.,  "Two  Theories  of  Poetry  as  Knowledge,"  Southern 

Reviezu,  VII  (1942),  pp.  690-705 
Tate,  Allen,  "Literature  as  Knowledge,"  Reason  in  Madness,  New  York, 

1 94 1,  pp.  20-61 
Walsh,  Dorothy,  "The  Cognitive  Content  of  Art,"  Philosophical  Review, 

LII  (1943),  pp.  433-51 
Wheelwright,  Philip,  "On  the  Semantics  of  Poetry,"  Kenyon  Review,  II 

(1940),  pp.  263-83 

CHAPTER    IV 

Literary  Theory,  History,  and  Criticism 

DISCUSSIONS  OF  RELATIONS   OF   LITERARY  SCHOLARSHIP   AND   CRITICISM 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  "Literary  Criticism,"  English  Institute  Essays  1946,  New 
York,  1947,  pp.  127-58 

,  "The  New  Criticism  and  Scholarship,"  Twentieth  Century  Eng- 
lish (ed.  William  S.  Knickerbocker,  New  York,  1946,  pp.  371-83) 

Crane,  Ronald  S.,  "History  versus  Criticism  in  the  University  Study  of 
Literature,"  English  Journal  (College  Edition),  XXIV  (1935),  pp. 
645-67 

Feuillerat,  Albert,  "Scholarship  and  Literary  Criticism,"  Yale  Review,  XIV 
(1924),  pp.  309-24 

Foerster,  Norman,  "Literary  Scholarship  and  Criticism,"  English  Journal 
(College  Edition),  XXV  (1936),  pp.  224-32 

Jones,  Howard  Mumford,  "Literary  Scholarship  and  Contemporary  Criti- 
cism," English  Journal  (College  Edition),  XXIII  (1934),  pp.  740-66 

Peyre,  Henri,  Writers  and  their  Critics,  Ithaca,  1944 

Teeter,  Louis,  "Scholarship  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,"  ELH,  V  (1938), 

PP-  173-94 
Warren,  Austin,  "The  Scholar  and  the  Critic:  An  Essay  in  Mediation," 
The  New  Frontier,  II  (1935),  pp.  1 7-22;  reprinted  in  University  of 
Toronto  Quarterly,  VI  (1937),  pp.  267-77 


Bibliography  351 

chapter  v 
National,  Comparative,  and  General  Literature 

Baldensperger,  Fernand,  "Litterature  comparee:  le  mot  et  la  chose,"  Revue 
de  litterature  comparee,  I  (1921),  pp.  1-29 

Beil,  E.,  Zur  Entwicklung  des  Begrijfs  der  Weltliteratur,  Leipzig,  191 5 
(in  Probefahrten,  XXVIII) 

Betz,  L.-P.,  "Kritische  Betrachtungen  iiber  Wesen,  Aufgabe  und  Bedeut- 
ung  der  vergleichenden  Literaturgeschichte,"  Zeitschrift  fiir  franzo- 
sische  Sprache  und  Litteratur,  XVIII  (1896),  pp.  141-56 

,  La  litterature  comparee:  Essai  bibliographique,  second  ed.,  Stras- 
bourg, 1904 

Brunetiere,  Ferdinand,  "La  litterature  europeenne,"  Revue  des  deux 
mondes,  CLXI  (1900),  pp.  326-55  (Reprinted  in  Varietes  litteraires, 
Paris,  1904,  pp.   1-5  I  ) 

Campbell,  Oscar  J.,  "What  is  Comparative  Literature?"  Essays  in  Memory 
of  Barrett  Wendell,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1926,  pp.  21-40 

Croce,  Benedetto,  "La  Letteratura  comparata,"  Problemi  di  Estetica,  Bari, 
1910,  pp.  73-9 

Farinelli,  Arturo,  77  sogno  di  una  letteratura  mondiale,  Rome,  1923 

Friederich,  Werner  P.,  "The  Case  of  Comparative  Literature,"  American 
Association  of  University  Professors  Bulletin,  XXXI  (1945),  pp. 
208-19 

Hankiss,  Jean,  "Litterature  Universelle?,"  Helicon,  I  (1938),  pp.  156-71 

Holmes,  T.  Urban,  Jr.,  "Comparative  Literature:  Past  and  Future,"  Studies 
in  Language  and  Literature  (ed.  G.  C.  Coffman),  Chapel  Hill,  1945, 
pp.  62-73 

Merian-Genast,  E.  W.,  Voltaires  Essai  sur  la  poesie  epique  und  die  Ent- 
wicklung der  Idee  der  Weltliteratur.  Romanise  he  Forschungen,  XL, 
Leipzig,  1926 

Partridge,  Eric,  "The  Comparative  Study  of  Literature,"  A  Critical  Med- 
ley, Paris,  1926,  pp.  159-226 

Peyre,  Henri,  Shelley  et  la  France,  La  Caire,  1935,  Introduction  and 
pp.  7-19 

Posnett,  Hutchison  Macaulay,  Comparatiz>e  Literature,  London,   1886 

,  "The  Science  of  Comparative  Literature,"  Contemporary  Review, 

LXXIX  (1901),  pp.  855-72 

Texte,  Joseph,  "L'histoire  comparee  des  litteratures,"  Etudes  de  litterature 
europeenne,  Paris,  1898,  pp.  1-23 


352  Bibliography 

Van  Tieghem,  Paul,  La  litterature  comparee,  Paris,  193  1 
,  "La  syn these   en   histoire   litteraire:   Litterature   comparee   et  lit- 
terature generale,"  Revue  de  synthese  historique,  XXXI   (1921),  pp. 
I-2I 

Will,  J.  S.,  "Comparative  Literature:  Its  Meaning  and  Scope,"  University 
of  Toronto  Quarterly,  VIII  (1939),  pp.   165-79 

N  CHAPTER    VI 

The  Ordering  and  Establishing  of  Evidence 

I.   TEXTUAL   CRITICISM 

Bedier,  Joseph,  "La  tradition  manuscrite  du  Lai  de  V Ombre:  reflexions 
sur  Part  d'editer  les  anciens  textes,"  Romania,  LIV  (1928),  pp.  161- 
96,  321-56 

Birt,  Theodor,  Kritik  und  Hermeneutik,  in  Iwan  von  Muller's  Handbuch 
der  Altertumszvissenschaft,  I,  part  3,  Munich,  1 91  3 

Chapman,  R.  W.,  "The  Textual  Criticism  of  English  Classics,"  Portrait  of 
a  Scholar,  Oxford,  1922,  pp.  65-79 

Collomp,  Paul,  La  Critique  des  textes,  Paris,  1 93  I 

Greg,  Walter  Wilson,  The  Calculus  of  Variants,  Oxford,  1 927 

,  "Principles  of  Emendation  in  Shakespeare,"  Shakespeare  Criti- 
cism, igig-35  (ed.  Anne  Bradby),  Oxford,   1930,  pp.  78-108 

,  "Recent    Theories    of    Textual    Criticism,"    Modern    Philology, 

XXVIII  (193 1 ),  pp.  401-04 

Havet,  Louis,  Manuel  de  Critique  verbale:  Applique  aux  textes  latins, 
Paris,  191 1 

Kantorowicz,  Hermann,  Einfiihrung  in  die  Textkritik:  System-atische  Dar- 
stellung  der  texkritischen  Grunds'dtze  fur  Philologen  und  Juristen, 
Leipzig,  1 92 1 

Maas,  Paul,  "Textkritik,"  in  Gercke-Norden,  Einleitung  in  die  Alter- 
tumszcissenschaft,  Vol.  I,  part  2,  Leipzig,  1927 

Pasquali,  Giorgio,  Storia  della  tradizione  e  critica  del  testo,  Florence,  1934 

Quentin,  Dom  Henri,  Essais  de  Critique  textuelle  (Ecdotique),  Paris,  1926 

Severs,  J.  Burke,  "Quentin's  Theory  of  Textual  Criticism,"  English  In- 
stitute Annual,  1941,  New  York,  1942,  pp.  65-93 

Shepard,  William,  "Recent  Theories  of  Textual  Criticism,"  Modern 
Philology,  XXVIII  (1930),  pp.  129-41 

Witkowski,  Georg,  Texkritik  und  Editionstechnik  neuerer  Schriftzverke, 
Leipzig,  1924 


Bibliography  353 

II.   BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Greg,  Walter  Wilson,  "Bibliography — an  Apologia,"   The  Library,  XIII 

(1933),  PP-  H3-43 
,  "The  Function  of  Bibliography  in  Literary  Criticism  Illustrated 

in  a  Study  of  the  Text  of  King  Lear"  Neophilologus,  XVIII  (1933), 

pp.  241-62 
,  "The  Present  Position  of  Bibliography,"  The  Library,  XI  (1930), 

pp.  241-62 
-,  "What  is  Bibliography?"  Transactions  of  the  Bibliographical  So- 


ciety, XII  (191 2),  pp.  39-53 

McKerrow,  Ronald  B.,  An  Introduction  to  Bibliography  for  Literary  Stu- 
dents, Oxford,  1927 

Simpson,  Percy,  "The  Bibliographical  Study  of  Shakespeare,"  Oxford  Bib- 
liographical Society  Proceedings,  I   (1927),  pp.   19-53 

Wilson,  F.  P.,  "Shakespeare  and  the  'New  Bibliography,'  "  The  Biblio- 
graphical Society,  1892-1942;  Studies  in  Retrospect,  London,  1945, 

PP-  76-135 
Wilson,  John  Dover,  "Thirteen  Volumes  of  Shakespeare:  a  Retrospect," 
Modern  Language  Review,  XXV  (1930),  pp.  397-414 

III.    EDITING 

Greg,  W.  W.,  The  Editorial  Problem  in  Shakespeare:  A  Survey  of  the 
Foundations  of  the  Text,  Oxford,  1942 

Leach,  MacEdward,  "Some  Problems  in  Editing  Middle  English  Manu- 
scripts," English  Institute  Annual,  1939,  New  York,  1940,  pp.  130-51 

McKerrow,  Ronald  B.,  Prolegomena  for  the  Oxford  Shakespeare:  a  Study 
in  Editorial  Method,  Oxford,  1939 

Stahlin,  Otto,  Edition stechnik,  Leipzig-Berlin,  1 9 14 

Strich,  Fritz,  "Uber  die  Herausgabe  gesammelter  Werke,"  Festschrift 
Edouard  Tieche,  Bern,  1947,  pp.  1 03-24 

Witkowski,  Georg,  loc.  cit.  under  "Textual  Criticism" 

CHAPTER    VII 

Literature  and  Biography 

I.   SOME   THEORETICAL    DISCUSSIONS 

Bush,  Douglas,  "John  Milton,"  English  Institute  Essays,  1946,  New  York, 
1947,  a  part  of  the  symposium  "The  Critical  Significance  of  Bio- 
graphical Evidence,"  pp.  5-1 1 


354  Bibliography 

Cherniss,  Harold,  "The  Biographical  Fashion  in  Literary  Criticism,"  Uni- 
versity of  California  Publications  in  Classical  Philology,  XII  (1933- 
44),  pp.  279-92 

Dilthey,  Wilhelm,  Das  Erlebnis  uni  die  Dichtung,  Leipzig,  1907 

Fernandez,  Ramon,  "L'autobiographie  et  le  Roman:  L'exemple  de  Sten- 
dhal," Messages,  Paris,  1926,  pp.  78-109 

Gundolf,  Friedrich,  Goethe,  Berlin,  1 91 6,  Introduction 

Landa,  Lewis,  "Jonathan  Swift,"  English  Institute  Essays,  1946,  New 
York,  1947,  a  part  of  the  symposium  "The  Critical  Significance  of 
Biographical  Evidence,"  pp.  20-40 

Lee,  Sir  Sidney,  Princifles  of  Biography,  Cambridge,  191 1 

Lewis,  C.  S.,  and  Tillyard,  E.  N.  W.,  The  Personal  Heresy  in  Criticism, 
Oxford,  1934 

Maurois,  Andre,  Aspects  ie  la  biographie,  Paris,  1928  (English  translation, 
Aspects  of  Biography,  Cambridge,  1929) 

,  "The  Ethics  of  Biography,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1942,  New 

York,  1943,  pp.  6-28 

Sisson,  C.  J.,  The  Mythical  Sorrows  of  Shakespeare,  British  Academy  Lec- 
ture, 1934,  London,  1 934 

Stanfield,  James  Field,  An  Essay  on  the  Study  and  Composition  of 
Biography,   London,    18 13 

White,  Newman  I.,  "The  Development,  Use,  and  Abuse  of  Interpretation 
in  Biography,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1042,  New  York,  1943, 
pp.  29-58 

II.   SOME    HISTORIES  OF  BIOGRAPHY 

Cross,  Wilbur  L.,  An  Outline  of  Biography  from  Plutarch  to  Strachey, 

New  York,  1924 
Dunn,  Waldo,  English  Biography,  London,  19 16 
Johnson,  Edgar,   One  Mighty   Torrent:   The  Drama  of  Biography,  New 

York,  1937 
Longaker,  Mark,  Contemporary  Biography,  Philadelphia,  1935 

,  English  Biography  in  the  Eighteenth  Century,  Philadelphia,  1 93  I 

Misch,    Georg,    Geschichte    der    Autobiographic,    Leipzig-Berlin,     1907 

(Second  ed.,  1 93  1 .  But  one  volume  published) 
Nicolson,  Harold,  The  Development  of  English  Biography,  London,  1927 
O'Neill,    Edward    H.,   A    History    of   American   Biography,    1800-1935, 

Philadelphia,   1935 
Stauffer,  Donald  A.,  The  Art  of  Biography  in  Eighteenth  Century  Eng- 
land, 2  vols.,  Princeton,   1941 

,  English  Biography  before  1700,  Cambridge,  Mass.,   1930 

Stuart,  Duan  Reed,  Epochs  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography,  Berkeley, 
Calif.,  1928 


Biblio  grafhy  355 

CHAPTER    VIII 

Literature  and  Psychology 

I.    GENERAL,   THE   IMAGINATION,    THE    CREATIVE    PROCESS 

Arnheim,  Rudolf,  et  al.,  Poets  at  Work,  New  York,  1948 

Auden,  W.   H.,  "Psychology  and  Art,"    The  Arts   Today    (ed.   Geoffrey 

Grigson),  London,  1935,  pp.  I-21 
Austin,  Mary,  "Automatism  in  Writing,"  XJnf  artisan  Review,  XIV  (1920), 

PP-  336-47 
Bartlett,  F.  C,  "Types  of  Imagination,"  Journal  of  Philosophical  Studies, 

III  (1928),  pp.  78-85 
Beguin,  Albert,  Uame  romantique   et  le  reve:   essai  sur  le   romantisme 

allemand  et  la  foesie  franqaise,  2  vols.,  Marseilles,  1937;  new  ed.,  1 

vol.,  Paris,  1 946 
Berkelman,  Robert  G.,  "How  to  Put  Words  on  Paper"  (on  writers'  methods 

of  work),  Saturday  Review  of  Literature,  XXVIII  (Dec.  29,  1945), 

pp.  18-19 
Biihler,  Charlotte,  "Erfindung  und  Entdeckung:  Zwei  Grundbegriffe  der 

Literaturpsychologie,"  Zeitschrift  fur  Asthetik,  XV  (1921),  pp.  43- 

87 
Bullough,  Edward,  "Mind  and  Medium  in  Art,"  British  Journal  of  Psy- 
chology, XI  ( 1 920-1),  pp.  26-46 
,  "Psychical  Distance  as  a  Factor  in  Art  and  an  Aesthetic  Principle," 

British  Journal  of  Psychology,  V  (1912-13),  pp.  87-118.  Reprinted, 

with  the  omission  of  the  last  eleven  pages,  in  M.  Rader's  Modern  Book 

of  Aesthetics,  New  York,  1935 
-,  "The  Relation  of  Aesthetics  to  Psychology,"  British  Journal  of 


Psychology,  X  (1919-20),  pp.  43-50 

Busemann,  A.,  "Uber  lyrische  Produktivitat  und  Lebensablauf,"  Zeit- 
schrift fur  angezvandte  Psychologie,  XXVI  (1926),  pp.  177-201 

Chandler,  Albert  R.,  Beauty  and  Human  Nature:  Elements  of  Psycho- 
logical Aesthetics,  New  York,   1934 

Delacroix,  Henri,  Psychologie  de  Part,  Paris,  1927 

de  Vries,  Louis  Peter:  The  Nature  of  Poetic  Literature,  Seattle,   1930 

Dilthey,  W.,  Das  Erlebnis  und  die  Dichtung,  Leipzig,  1922 

,  "Die    Einbildungskraft    des    Dichters,"    Gesammelte    Schriften, 

Vol.  VI,  Leipzig,   1924,  pp.  103-241 

Downey,  June,  Creative  Imagination,  London,  I929 

Frey,  Dagobert,  "Das  Kunstwerk  als  Willensproblem,"  Zeitschrift  fur 
Asthetik,  XXV  (Beilage),  193 1,  pp.  231-44 


356  Bibliography 

Hargreaves,  H.  L.,  "The  'Faculty'  of  Imagination,"  British  Journal  of 
Psychology,  Monograph  Supplement,  III,  1927 

Hill,  J.  C,  "Poetry  and  the  Unconscious,"  British  Journal  of  Medical 
Psychology,  IV  (1924),  pp.  125-33 

Koffka,  K.,  "Problems  in  the  Psychology  of  Art,"  Art,  A  Symposium,  Bryn 
Mazvr  Notes  and  Monographs,  IX  (1940),  pp.  180-273 

Kreibig,  J.,  "Beitrage  zur  Psychologie  des  Kunstschaffens,"  Zeitschrift  filr 
Asthetik,  IV  (1909),  pp.   532-58 

Kretschmer,  E.,  Physique  and  Character  (tr.  Sprott),  New  York,   1925 

Kroh,  E.,  "Eidetiker  unter  deutschen  Dichtern,"  Zeitschrift  filr  Psy- 
chologic, LXXXV  (1920),  pp.  118-62 

Lee,  Vernon,  "Studies  in  Literary  Psychology,"  Contemporary  Reviezv, 
LXXXIV  (1903),  pp.  713-23  and  856-64;  LXXXV  (1904),  pp. 
386-92 

Lowes,  J.  L.,  The  Road  to  Xanadu:  A  Study  in  the  Ways  of  the  Imagina- 
tion, Boston,  1927 

Marrett,  R.  R.,  Psychology  and  Folk-lore,  London,  Methuen,   1920 

Moog,  Willy,  "Probleme  einer  Psychologie  der  Literatur,"  Zeitschrift  filr 
Psychologie  und  Physiologie  der  Sinnesorgane,  CXXIV  (1932),  pp. 
129-46 

Miiller-Freienfels,  R.,  Psychologie  der  Kunst,  2  vols.,  2nd  ed.,  Leipzig, 
1923 

,  "Die  Aufgaben  einer  Literaturpsychologie,"  Das  literarische  Echo, 

XVI  (1913-14),  pp.  805-11 

Munro,  Thomas,  "Methods  in  the  Psychology  of  Art,"  Journal  of  Aes- 
thetics, VI  (1948),  pp.  225-35 

Nixon,  H.  K.,  Psychology  for  the  Writer,  New  York,  1928 

Perky,  C.  W.,  "An  Experimental  Study  of  Imagination,"  American  Journal 
of  Psychology,  XXI  (1910),  pp.  422-52 

Plaut,  Paul,  Psychologie  der  produktiven  Personlichkeit,  Stuttgart,  1929 

Pongs,  Hermann,  "L'image  poetique  et  l'inconscient,"  Journal  de  Psy- 
chologie, XXX  (1933),  pp.   120-63 

Reicke,  Use,  "Das  Dichten  in  psychologischer  Betrachtung,"  Zeitschrift 
filr  Asthetik,  X  (191 5),  pp.  290-345 

Ribot,  Th.,  JJ imagination  crcatrice,  Paris,  1900 

Rusu,  Liviu,  Essai  sur  la  creation  artistique,  Paris,  1935 

Sartre,  Jean  P.,  L' Imagination,  Paris,  1936 

Sterzinger,  Othmar  H.,  Grundlinien  der  Kunstpsychologie,  Vols.  I  and  II, 
Graz,   1938 

Tsanoff,  Radoslav  A.,  "On  the  Psychology  of  Poetic  Construction," 
American  Journal  of  Psychology,  XXV  (1914),  pp.  528-37 


Bibliography  357 

Vaughan,  Wayland  F.,  "The  Psychology  of  Compensation,"  Psychological 

Review,  XXXIII  (1926),  pp.  467-79 
von   Allesch,   G.   J.,   "Psychologische    Bemerkungen   Zu   zwei  Werken   der 

neueren  Kunstgeschichte,"  Psychologische  Forschungen,   II    (1922), 

pp.  366-81 

II.    PSYCHIATRIC    AND    PSYCHOANALYTICAL    STUDIES 

Baudouin,  Charles,  Psychoanalysis  and  Aesthetics  (tr.  of  Le  symbole  chez 
Verhacren),  New  York,  1924 

Bergler,  Edmund,  "Psychology  of  Writers,"  Psychoanalytical  Review, 
XXXI  (1944),  pp.  40-70 

Boeschenstein,  Hermann,  "Psychoanalysis  in  Modern  Literature,"  Colum- 
bia Dictionary  of  Modem  Literature  (ed.  H.  Smith),  New  York, 
1947,  pp.  651-7 

Bonaparte,  Marie,  Edgar  Poe:  etude  fsychoanalytique  .   .   .   ,  Paris,  1933 

Bragman,  L.  J.,  "The  Case  of  Swinburne,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  XXI  (1934), 

PP-  59-74 
Burchell,  S.  C,  "Dostoevsky  and  the  Sense  of  Guilt,"  Psychoan.  Rev., 

XVII  (1930),  pp.  195-207 

,  "Proust,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  XV  (1928),  pp.  300-3 

Burke,  Kenneth,  "Freud  and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry,"  in  Philosophy  of 

Literary  Form,  Baton  Rouge,  1941,  pp.  258-92 
Coleman,    Stanley,    "Strindberg:    the    Autobiographies,"    Psychoan.    Rev., 

XXIII  (1936),  pp.  248-73 
Davis,  Robert  Gorham,  "Art  and  Anxiety,"  Partisan  Review,  XIV  (1945), 

pp.  310-21 
Freud,  Sigmund,  "Dostoevski  and  Parricide,"  Partisan  Review,  XIV  (1945), 

pp.  530-44 
,  "The  Relation  of  the  Poet  to  Day-Dreaming,"  Collected  Papers 

(tr.,  London,  1925),  IV,  pp.  173-83 
Grant  Duff,  I.  F.,  "A  One-Sided  Sketch  of  Swift,"  Psychoan.  Quarterly, 

VI  (i937)»P-  238  ff. 

Hoffman,  Frederick  J.,  Freudianism  and  the  Literary  Mind,  Baton  Rouge, 

1945. 
Hoops,  Reinold,  Der  Einfluss  der  Psychoanalyse  auf  die  englische  Lit- 

eratur,  Heidelberg,  1934 
Hyman,    Stanley    E.,    "The    Psychoanalytical    Criticism    of    Literature," 

Western  Review,  XII  (1947-8),  pp.   106-15 
Jaspers,   Karl,   "Strindberg   and   Van    Gogh,"   Arbeiten   zur  angewandten 

Psychiatrie,  V,  Leipzig,  1922 
Jelliffe,  Smith  Ely,  "Paleopsychology:  .  .  .  the  Origin  and  Evolution  of 

Symbolic  Function,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  X  (1923),  pp.  121-39 


358  Bibliography 

Jones,  Dr.  Ernest,  "A  Psycho-analytic  Study  of  Hamlet,"  Essays  in  Ap- 
plied Psycho-analysis,  London,  1923 
Jung,  C.  J.,  "On  the  relation  of  analytical  psychology  to  poetic  art,"  Con- 
tributions to  Analytical  Psychology,  London,  1928 
Karpman,  Ben,  "Swift's  Neurotic  Traits,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  XXIX  (1942), 

pp.  26-45  arjd  165-84 
Kronfeld,    A.,    "Der    kiinsterische    Gestaltungsvorgang    in    psychiatrischer 

Beleuchtung,"  Zeitschrift  fur  Asthetik,  XIX  (1925),  pp.  174-81 
Laurila,   K.   S.,   "Die   psychoanalytische   Auffassung   von   der   Dichtung," 

Helicon,  III  (1940),  pp.  159-65 
Lewis,  C.  S.,  "Psychoanalysis  and  Literary  Criticism,"  Essays  and  Studies 

of  the  English  Association,  XXVII  (1941),  pp.  7-21 
Morris,  Ruth,  "The  Novel  as  Catharsis,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  XXXI  (1944), 

pp.  88-104. 
Muschg,  Walter,  Psychoanalyse  und  Literaturwissenschaft,  Berlin,   1930 
Oberndorf,  Clarence,  "Psychoanalytic  Insight  of  Hawthorne,"  Psychoan. 

Rev.,  XXIX  (1942),  pp.  373-85 

,  The  Psychiatric  Novels  of  O.  W.  Holmes,  New  York,  1943 

Pongs,  H.,  "Psychoanalyse  und  Dichtung,"  Euphorion,  XXXIV  (1933), 

pp.  38-72 
Prinzhorn,   H.,   "Der   kiinsterische   Gestaltungsvorgang   in   psychiatrischer 

Beleuchtung,"  Zeitschrift  filr  Asthetik,  XIX  (1925),  pp.  154-81 
Pruette,    Lorine,    "A    Psycho-analytic   Study    of    E.    A.    Poe,"    American 

Journal  of  Psychology,  XXXI  (1920),  pp.  370-402 
Rank,  Otto,  Art  and  Artist:  Creative  Urge  and  Personality  Development, 

tr.  C.  F.  Atkinson,  New  York,  1932 
Rosenzweig,  Saul,   "The  Ghost  of  Henry  James,"  Partisan  Review,  XI 

(1944),  pp.  436-55 
Sachs,  Hanns,  Creative  Unconscious,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1942 
Squires,  P.  C,  "Dostoevsky:  A  Psychopathological  Sketch,"  Psychoan.  Rev., 

XXIV  (1937),  pp.  365-88 
Stekel,  Wilhelm,  "Poetry  and  Neurosis,"  Psychoan.  Rev.,  X  (1923),  pp. 

73-96,  190-208,  316-28,  457-66 
Trilling,  Lionel,  "A  Note  on  Art  and  Neurosis,"  Partisan  Review,  XII 

(1945),  pp.  41-9 
,  "The  Legacy  of  Freud:  Literary  and  Aesthetic,"  Kenyon  Review, 

II  (1940),  pp.  152-73 


Bibliography  359 

CHAPTER    IX 

Literature  and  Society 

I.   GENERAL   DISCUSSIONS  OF  LITERATURE   AND   SOCIETY   AND   SOME   BOOKS   ON 
INDIVIDUAL  PROBLEMS 

Baldensperger,    Fernand,    La   Litterature:    creation,    succes,    duree,    Paris, 

191 3  (new  ed.,  1919) 
Daiches,  David,  Literature  and  Society ,  London,  1938 

,  The  Novel  and  the  Modem  World,  Chicago,  1939 

,  Poetry  and  the  Modem  World,  Chicago,  1940 

Guerard,  Albert  Leon,  Literature  and  Society,  New  York,  1935 
Guyau,  J.,  Uart  au  foint  de  vue  sociologique,  Paris,  1889 
Hennequin,  Emile,  La  critique  scientifique,  Paris,  1888 
Kallen,  Horace  M.,  Art  and  Freedom,  2  vols.,  New  York,  1942 
Kern,  Alexander  C,  "The  Sociology  of  Knowledge  in  the  Study  of  Lit- 
erature," Sezvanee  Review,  L  (1942),  pp.  505-14 
Knights,  L.  C.j  Drama  and  Society  in  the  Age  of  Jonson,  London,  1937 
Kohn-Bramstedt,  Ernst,  Aristocracy  and  the  Middle  Classes  in  Germany: 
Social  Tyfesin  German  Literature,  1830-1900,  London,  1937.  (Con- 
tains introduction:  "The  Sociological  Approach  to  Literature") 
Lalo,  Charles,  Uart  et  la  vie  sociale,  Paris,  192 1 
Lanson,  Gustave,  "L'histoire  litteraire  et  la  sociologie,"  Revue  de  Meta- 

fhysique  et  morale,  XII  (1904),  pp.  621-42 
Leavis,  Q.  D.,  Fiction  and  the  Reading  Public,  London,  1932 
Lerner,   Max,   and   Mims,   Edwin,    "Literature,"   Encyclopedia  of  Social 

Sciences,  IX  (1933),  pp.  523-43 
Levin,    Harry,    "Literature   as   an    Institution,"   Accent,   VI    (1946),    pp. 
159-68.    Reprinted   in    Criticism   (ed.  Schorer,   Miles,   McKenzie), 
New  York,  1948,  pp.  546-53 
Niemann,  Ludwig,  Soziologie  des  naturalistischen  Romans,  Berlin,   1934 

(Germanische  Studien  148) 
Read,  Herbert,  Art  and  Society,  London,  1937 

Schiicking,    Levin,    Die   Soziologie   der   literarischen    Geschmacksbildung, 
Munich,  1923.  (Second,  enlarged  ed.,  Leipzig,  193 1;  English  trans- 
lation: The  Sociology  of  Literary  Taste,  London,  1941) 
Sewter,  A.  C,  "The  Possibilities  of  a  Sociology  of  Art,"  Sociological  Re- 
view (London),  XXVII  (1935),  pp.  441-53 
Sorokin,  Pitirim,  Fluctuations  of  Forms  of  Art,  Cincinnati,  1 93 7  (Vol.  I 

of  Social  and  Cultural  Dynamics) 
Tomars,  Adolph  Siegfried,  Introduction  to  the  Sociology  of  Art,  Mexico 
City,  1940 


360  Bibliografhy 

Witte,  W.,  "The  Sociological  Approach  to  Literature,"  Modern  Language 

Review,  XXXVI  (1941),  pp.  86-94 
Ziegenfuss,  Werner,  "Kunst,"  H  andwbrterbuch  der  Soziologie  (ed.  Alfred 

Vierkandt),  Stuttgart,  193  1,  pp.  301-38 

II.  SOME   DISCUSSIONS   OF   THE    ECONOMIC    HISTORY   OF   LITERATURE 

Beljame,  Alexandre,  Le  Public  et  les  Hommes  des  Lettres  en  Angleterre 

au  XV  IIP  siecle:  Dry  den,  Addison  et  Pope,  Paris,  1883 
Collins,  A.  S.,  Authorship  in  the  Days  of  Johnson,  New  York,   1927 

,  The  Profession  of  Letters  (1780-1832),  New  York,  1928 

Holzknecht,  Karl  J.,  Literary  Patronage  in  the  Middle  Ages,  Philadelphia, 

1923 
Levy,  Robert,  Le  Micenat  et  P  organisation  du  credit  intell ectuel ,  Paris, 

1924 
Martin,  Alfred  von,  Soziologie  der  Renaissance,  Stuttgart,  1932  (English 

translation,  Sociology  of  the  Renaissance,  London,  1944) 
Overmyer,  Grace,  Government  and  the  Arts,  New  York,   1 939 
Sheavyn,  Phoebe,  The  Literary  Profession  in  the  Elizabethan  Age,  Man- 
chester, 1909 

III.  SOME    MARXIST    STUDIES    OF    LITERATURE    AND    DISCUSSIONS    OF    MARXIST 

APPROACH 

Burgum,  Edwin  Berry,  The  Novel  and  the  World's  Dilemma,  New  York, 

1947 
Burke,  Kenneth,  Attitudes  towards  History,  2  vols.,  New  York,  1937 
Caudwell,  Christopher,  Illusion  and  Reality,  London,   1937 
Cohen,  Morris  R.,  "American  Literary  Criticism  and  Economic  Forces," 

Journal  of  the  History  of  Ideas,  I  (1940),  pp.  369-74 
Farrell,  James  T.,  A  Note  on  Literary  Criticism,  New  York,  1936 
Finkelstein,  Sidney,  Art  and  Society,  New  York,  1947 
Freville,  Jean,  Sur  la  litterature  et  Part,  2  vols.,  Paris,   1936.   (Contains 

relevant  texts  in  Marx,  Engels,  Lenin,  and  Stalin) 
Grib,  V.,  Balzac  (tr.   from  Russian;  Critics'  Group  Series),  New  York, 

1937 

Henderson,  P.,  Literature  and  a  Changing  Civilization,  London,  1 93 5 

,  The  Novel  of  Today:  Studies  in  Contemporary  Attitudes,  Ox- 
ford, 1936 

Iskowicz,  Marc,  La  litterature  a  la  lumiere  du  materialisme  historique, 
Paris,  1926 

Jackson,  T.  A.,  Charles  Dickens.  The  Progress  of  a  Radical,  New  York, 

1938 
Klingender,  F.  D.,  Marxism  and  Modern  Art,  London,  1943 


Bibliography  361 

Lifshitz,  Mikhail,  The  Philosophy  of  Art  of  Karl  Marx  (tr.  from  Russian; 

Critics'  Group  Series),  New  York,  1938 
Lukacs,  Georg,  Goethe  und  seine  Zeit,  Bern,  1947 
Novitsky,  Pavel  J.,  Cervantes  and  Don  Quixote  (tr.  from  Russian;  Critics' 

Group  Series),  New  York,  1936 
Plekhanov,   Georgi,  Art  and  Society    (tr.   from   Russian;   Critics'   Group 

Series),  New  York,  1936 
Sakulin,  N.  P.,  Die  russische  Literatur,  Potsdam,   1930.  (In  series  Hand- 

buch   der  Literaturwissenschaft,   ed.    O.   Walzel.)    Translated    from 

Russian 
Smirnov,  A.  A.,  Shakesfeare  (tr.  from  Russian;  Critics'  Group  Series),  New 

York,  1936 
Smith,  Bernard,  Forces  in  American  Criticism,  New  York,   1939 
Thomson,  George,  Aeschylus  and  Athens:  A  Study  in  the  Social  Origin  of 

the  Drama,  London,  1 94 1 
,  Marxism  and  Poetry,  London,  1945 

Trotsky,  Leon,  Literature  and  Revolution,  New  York,  1925 

« 

CHAPTER    X 

Literature  and  Ideas 

THEORETICAL   DISCUSSIONS 

Gilson,  Etienne,  Les  idles  et  les  lettres,  Paris,  1932 

Glockner,  Hermann,  "Philosophic  und  Dichtung:  Typen  ihrer  Wechsel- 

wirkung  von  den  Griechen  bis  auf  Hegel,"  Zeitschrift  filr  Asthetik, 

XV  (1920-21),  pp.  187-204 
Jockers,    Ernst,   "Philosophic   und   Literaturwissenschaft,"    Germanic  Re- 
view, X  (1935),  pp.  73-97,  166-86 
Laird,  John,  Philosophical  Incursions  into  English  Literature,  Cambridge, 

1946 
Love  joy,  Arthur   O.,  Essays  in  the  History   of  Ideas,   Baltimore,    1 948. 

,  The  Great  Chain  of  Being,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1936 

,  "The   Historiography  of   Ideas,"   Proceedings  of  the  American 

Philosophical  Society,  LXXVII  (1937-8),  pp.  529-43 
,  "Present  Standpoint  and  Past  History,"  Journal  of  Philosophy, 

XXXVI  (1939),  pp.  471-89 
,  "Reflections  on  the  History  of  Ideas,"  Journal  of  the  History  of 

Ideas,  I  (1940),  pp.  1-23 

-,  "Reply  to  Professor  Spitzer,"  Ibid.,  V  (1944),  pp.  204- 1 9 


Lutzeler,    Heinrich,    "Gedichtsaufbau    und    Welthaltung    des    Dichters," 
Euphorion,  NF,  XXXV  (1934),  pp.  247-62 


362  Bibliography 

Nicolson,  Marjorie,  "The  History  of  Literature  and  the  History  of 
Thought,"  English  Institute  Annual,  1939   (New  York,   1 940),  pp. 

56-89 

Nohl,  Hermann,  Stil  und  Weltanschauung,  Jena,  1923 

Santayana,  George,  "Tragic  Philosophy,"  Works  (Triton  ed.),  New  York, 
1936,  pp.  275-88.  (Reprinted  in  M.  D.  Zabel  [ed.],  Literary  Opin- 
ion in  America,  New  York,  1937,  pp.  129-41) 

Spitzer,  Leo,  "Geistesgeschichte  vs.  History  of  Ideas  as  applied  to  Hit- 
lerism,"  Journal  of  the  History  of  Ideas,  V  (1944),  pp.  191-203 

Stace,  W.  T.,  The  Meaning  of  Beauty:  A  Theory  of  Aesthetics  (London, 
1929),  especially  164  ff. 

Taylor,  Harold  A.,  "Further  Reflections  on  the  History  of  Ideas,"  Journal 
of  Philosophy,  XL  (1943),  pp.  281-99 

Unger,  Rudolf,  Aufs'dtze  %ur  Prinzipienlehre  der  Liter aturgeschichte,  2 
vols.,  Berlin,  1929.  (Vol.  I  contains  "Literaturgeschichte  als  Problem- 
geschichte,"  "Literaturgeschichte  und  Geistesgeschichte,"  "Philo- 
sophische  Probleme  der  neueren  Literaturwissenschaft,"  "Weltan- 
schauung und  Dichtung") 

Walzel,  Oskar,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  dichterischen  Kunstwerk,  Berlin- 
Potsdam,  1923 

Wechssler,  Eduard,  "Uber  die  Beziehung  von  Weltanschauung  und  Kunst- 
schaffen,"  Marburger  Beitrage  zur  romanischen  Philologie,  IX 
(1911),  46  pp. 

CHAPTER    XI 

Literature  and  the  Other  Arts 

I.    GENERAL   DISCUSSIONS 

Binyon,  Laurence,  "English  Poetry  in  its  Relation  to  Painting  and  the 
Other  Arts,"  Proceedings  of  the  British  Academy,  VIII  (191 8),  pp. 
381-402 

Combarieu,  Jules,  Les  Raf forts  de  la  musique  et  de  la  poesie,  Paris,   1894 

Greene,  Theodore  Meyer,  The  Arts  and  the  Art  of  Criticism,  Princeton, 
1940 

Hatzfeld,  Helmut  A.,  "Literary  Criticism  Through  Art  and  Art  Criti- 
cism Through  Literature,"  Journal  of  Aesthetics,  VI  (1947),  pp. 
1-21 

Maury,  Paul,  Arts  et  litterature  compares:  Etat  present  de  la  question, 
Paris,  1933 

Medicus,  Fritz,  "Das  Problem  einer  vergleichenden  Geschichte  der 
Kiinste,"  Philosophie  der  Literaturwissenschaft  (ed.  Emil  Ermatinger), 
Berlin,  1930,  pp.  188-239 


Bibliografhy  363 

Read,  Herbert,  "Parallels  in  English  Painting  and  Poetry,"  In  Defence  of 
Shelley  and  other  Essays,  London,  1936,  pp.  233-48 

Sachs,  Curt,  The  Commonwealth  of  Art:  Style  in  the  Arts,  Music  and  the 
Dance,  New  York,  1946 

Vossler,  Karl,  "Uber  wechselseitige  Erhellung  der  Kunste,"  Festschrift 
Heinrich  Wolfflin  zum  yo.  Geburtstag,  Dresden,   1935,  pp.   160-67 

Walzel,  Oskar,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  Kunstwerk  des  Dichters,  Berlin- 
Potsdam,  1923,  esp.  pp.  265  ff.  and  282  ff. 

,  Wechselseitige  Erhellung  der  Kunste,  Berlin,  191 7 

Wais,  Kurt,  Symbiose  der  Kunste,  Stuttgart,  1936 

,  "Vom    Gleichlauf    der    Kunste,"    Bulletin   of   the   International 

Committee  of  the  Historical  Sciences,  IX  (1937),  pp.  295-304 

Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Parallelism  between  Literature  and  the  Arts,"  English 
Institute  Annual,  1941,  New  York,  1942,  pp.  29-63 

II.  SOME  WORK  ON   HISTORICAL  RELATIONS  BETWEEN   LITERATURE   AND  THE 

ARTS 

Baldensperger,  F.,  Sensibilite  musicale  et  romantisme,  Paris,  1925 

Bontoux,  Germaine,  La  Chanson  en  Angleterre  au  temps  de  Elizabeth, 
Paris,  1938 

Fairchild,  Arthur  H.  R.,  Shakespeare  and  the  Arts  of  Design  {Architec- 
ture, Sculpture,  and  Painting),  Columbia,  Miss.,  1937 

Fehr,  Bernhard,  "The  Antagonism  of  Forms  in  the  Eighteenth  Century," 
English  Studies,  XVIII  (1936),  pp.  11  5-21,  193-205;  XIX  (1937), 
pp.  1-13,  49_57-  (Reprinted  in  Von  Englands  geistigen  Bestanden, 
Frauenfeld,  1944,  pp.  59-118) 

Frey,  Dagobert,  Gotik  und  Renaissance  als  Grundlagen  der  modernen 
Weltanschauung,  Augsburg,  1929 

Hassold,  Ernest  C,  "The  Baroque  as  a  Basic  Concept  of  Art,"  College  Art 
Journal,  VI  (1946),  pp.  3-28 

Hautecoeur,  Louis,  Litter ature  et  feinture  en  France  du  XVI Ie  au  XXe 
siecle,  Paris,  1942 

Hautmann,  Max,  "Der  Wandel  der  Bildvorstellungen  in  der  deutschen 
Dichtung  und  Kunst  des  romanischen  Zeitalters,"  Festschrift  Heinrich 
Wolfflin,  Munich,  1924,  pp.  63-81 

Larrabee,  Stephen  A.,  English  Bards  and  Grecian  Marbles:  The  Relation- 
ship between  Sculpture  and  Poetry,  New  York,  1943 

Manwaring,  Elizabeth  W.,  Italian  Landscape  in  Eighteenth  Century  Eng- 
land, New  York,  1 92 5 

Seznec,  Jean,  "Flaubert  and  the  Graphic  Arts,"  Journal  of  the  Warburg 
and  Courtauld  Institutes,  VIII  (1945),  pp.  175-90 

Smith,  Warren  H.,  Architecture  in  English  Fiction,  New  Haven,    1934 


364  Bibliography 

Tinker,  Chauncey  Brewster,  Painter  and  Poet:  Studies  in  the  Literary  Re- 
lations of  English  Painting,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1938 
Webster,  Thomas  B.  L.,  Greek  Art  and  Literature  530-400  B.C.,  Oxford, 

1939 
Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Concept  of  Baroque  in  Literary  Scholarship,"  The 

Journal  of  Aesthetics,  V  (1946),  pp.  7 7-1 09 
Wind,  Edgar,  "Humanitatsidee  und  heroisches  Portrat  in  der  englischen 
Kultur  des  achtzehnten  Jahrhunderts,"  Vortrage  der  Bibliothek  War- 
burg, 1930-31,  Leipzig,  1932,  pp.  156-229 

CHAPTER    XII 

The  Analysis  of  the  Literary  Work  of  Art 

I.  DISCUSSIONS  OF   MODE   OF  EXISTENCE,   ONTOLOGY  OF   LITERATURE 

Conrad,  Waldemar,   "Der  aesthetische  Gegenstand,"  Zeitschrift  filr  As- 

thetik,  III  (1908),  pp.  71-118,  and  IV  (1909),  pp.  400-55 
Hartmann,  Nikolai,  Das  Problem  des  geistigen  Seins,  Berlin,  1 93  3 
Husserl,  Edmund,  Meditations  Cartesiennes,  Paris,   1 93 1 
Ingarden,  Roman,  Das  literarische  Kunstzverk,  Halle,  193  I 
Joad,  C.  E.  M.,  Guide  to  Philosophy  (New  York,  1935),  pp.  267-70 
Miiller,  Giinther,  "Uber  die  Seinsweise  von  Dichtung,"  Deutsche  Viertel- 
jahrschrift    filr   Literaturwissenschaft    und    Geistesgeschichte,    XVII 

(1939),  PP-  137-53 
Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Theory  of  Literary  History,"  Travaux  du  Cercle  Lin- 
guist iqtie  de  Prague,  VI  (1936),  pp.  1 7 3-9 1 

II.  GENERAL    DISCUSSIONS    OF    PHONEMICS 

Biihler,  Karl,  "Phonetik  und  Phonologie,"  Travaux  du  Cercle  Linguistique 
de  Prague,  IV  (1931),  pp.  22-52 

Groot,  A.  W.  de,  "Phonologie  und  Phonetik  als  Funktionswissenschaften," 
Ibid.,  pp.  1 16-47 

Mathesius,  Vilem,  "Ziele  und  Aufgaben  der  vergleichenden  Phonologie," 
Xenia  Pragensia,  Prague,  1 929,  pp.  432-45 

Mukarovsky,  Jan,  "La  phonologie  et  la  poetique,"  Travaux  du  Cercle  Lin- 
guistique de  Prague,  IV  (193 1 ),  pp.  278-88 

Sapir,  Edward,  "Sound  Patterns  in  Language,"  Language,  I   (1925),  pp. 

37-51 
Trubetzkoy,  N.  S.,  Grundzuge  der  Phonologie  {Travaux  du  Cercle  Lin- 
guistique de  Prague,  7),  Prague,  1939 
Twaddell,  W.  F.,  On  Defining  the  Phoneme,  Baltimore,  1935 

,  "Phonemics,"  Monatshefte  filr  deutschen   Unterricht  (Madison, 

Wis.),  XXXIV  (1942),  pp.  262-8 


Bibliography  365 

Vachek,  Josef,  "Several  Thoughts  on  Several  Statements  of  the  Phoneme 

Theory,"  American  Speech,  X  (1935),  pp.  243-55 
,  "What     is     Phonology?"     English    Studies     (Amsterdam),     XV 

(i933)»  PP-  8l"92 

III.  DISCUSSIONS   AND   APPLICATIONS    OF   "EXPLICATION    DE    TEXTEs" 

Brunot,  F.,  "Explications  frangaises,"  Revue  universitaire,  IV  (1895),  pp. 
113-28,  263-87 

Hatzfeld,  Helmut,  Einfiihrung  in  die  Interpretation  neufranzosicher 
Texte,  Munich,  1922 

Lanson,  Gustave,  "Quelques  mots  sur  l'explication  de  textes,"  Methodes 
de  Vhistoire  litteraire,  Paris,  1925,  pp.  38-57 

Roustan,  M.,  Precis  d' explication  francaise,  Paris,  191 1 

Rudler,  Gustave,  L 'explication  francaise,  Paris,  1902 

Vigneron,  Robert,  Explication  de  Textes  and  Its  Adaptation  to  the  Teach- 
ing of  Modem  Languages,  Chicago,  1928 

IV.  DISCUSSIONS   OF   "CLOSE    READING"   AND    EXAMPLES    OF    METHODS 

Blackmur,  Richard  P.,  The  Double  Agent,  New  York,  1935 

,  The  Expense  of  Greatness,  New  York,  1940 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  Modem  Poetry  and  the  Tradition,  Chapel  Hill,  1939 
(and  Robert  Penn  Warren),  Understanding  Poetry,  New  York, 

1938 

-,  The  Well  Wrought  Urn,  New  York,  1947 


Cohen,  Gustave,  Essai  d' explication  du  "Cimitiere  marin"  Paris,  1933 

Crane,  Ronald  S.,  "Interpretation  of  Texts  and  the  History  of  Ideas," 
College  English,  II  (1941),  pp.  755-65 

Empson,  William,  Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity,  London,  1930  (new  ed., 
New  York,  1948) 

,  Some  Versions  of  Pastoral,  London,  1935  (American  title:  Eng- 
lish Pastoral  Poetry,  New  York,  1938) 

Etienne,  S.,  Experiences  d'analyse  textuelle  en  vue  d*  explication  litteraire, 
Paris,  1935 

Hess,  Hans,  "Victor  Hugos  Gedicht  vom  Spinnrad  der  Omphale,"  Archiv 
fur  das  Studium  der  neueren  Sprachen,  LXXXXVIII  (1934),  pp. 
60-76 

Leavis,  F.  R.,  Nezv  Bearings  in  English  Poetry,  London,  1932 

,  Revaluation:    Tradition    and    Development    in    English    Poetry, 

London,  1936.  (Reprinted,  New  York,  1947) 

Olson,  Elder,  "Rhetoric  and  the  Appreciation  of  Pope,"  Modem  Philol- 
ogy, XXXVII  (1939),  pp.  13-35 

,  "Sailing  to  Byzantium:  Prolegomena  to  a  Poetics  of  the  Lyric," 

University  Review  (Kansas  City),  VIII  (1942),  pp.  209-19 


366  Bibliography 

Ransom,  John  Crowe,  The  New  Criticism,  Norfolk,  Conn.,  1 94 1 
,  The  World's  Body,  New  York,  1938 


Richards,  I.  A.,  Practical  Criticism,  London,  1929 

Spitzer,  Leo,  "Etude  ahistorique  d'un  texte,"  Modem  Language  Quarterly, 

I  (1940),  pp.  7"22 

,  "History  of  Ideas  versus  Reading  of  Poetry,"  Southern  Review, 

VI  (1940),  pp.  584-609 

,  JJ amour  lointain  de  Jaufre  Rudel  et  le  sens  de  la  poe-sie  des  trou- 
badours, Chapel  Hill,  1944  (University  of  North  Carolina  Studies  in 
Romance  Languages  and  Literatures.  No.  5) 
-,  Stilstudien,  2  vols.,  Munich,  1928 


Tate,  Allen,  Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Ideas,  New  York,  1936 

,  Reason  in  Madness,  New  York,  1 94 1 

Unger,    Leonard,    "Notes    on    Ash    Wednesday"    Southern    Review,    IV 

(i939)>  PP-  745-70 
Vossler,  Karl,  Leopardi,  Munich,  1923 
Walzel,  Oskar,  Gehalt  und  Gestalt  im  dichterischen  Kunstwerk,   Berlin, 

1923     (part    of    series:    Handbuch    der    Literaturwissenschaft,    ed. 

O.  Walzel) 
,  Das  Wort  kunstwerk:  Mittel  seiner  Erforschung,  Leipzig,  1926 

V.   DISCUSSIONS  OF   "INTENTION"   IN   LITERARY   WORKS 

Coomaraswamy,  Amanda  K.,  "Intention,"  American  Bookman,  I  (1944), 
pp.  41-8 

Walcutt,  Charles  Child,  "Critic's  Taste  and  Artist's  Intention,"  The  Uni- 
versity of  Kansas  City  Review,  XII  (1946),  pp.  278-83 

Walzel,  Oskar,  "Kiinstlerische  Absicht,"  Germanisch-romanische  Monats- 
schrift,  VIII  (1920),  pp.  329-31 

Wimsatt,  W.  K.,  Jr.,  and  Beardsley,  Monroe  C,  "Intention,"  Dictionary 
of  World  Literature  (ed.  J.  T.  Shipley),  New  York,  1944,  pp. 
326-29 

,  "The  Intentional  Fallacy,"  Sewanee  Review,  LIV   (1946),  pp. 

468-88 

CHAPTER    XIII 

Euphony,  Rhythm,  and  Meter 

I.   EUPHONY,   SOUND-PATTERNS,   RHYME,   ETC. 

Bate,  Walter  Jackson,   The  Stylistic  Development  of  Keats,  New  York, 

1945 
Brik,    Osip,    "Zvukovie   povtory"    (Sound-patterns),    Poetika,    Petersburg, 

1919 
Ehrenfeld,  A.,  Studien  %ur  Theorie  des  Reims,  2  vols.,  Zurich,  1897,  1904 


Bibliografhy  367 

Chapin,  Elsa,  and  Russell,  Thomas,  A  New  Approach  to  Poetry,  Chicago, 
1929 

Gabrielson,  Arnid,  Rime  as  a  criterion  of  the  pronunciation  of  Spenser, 
Pope,  Byron,  ani  Szvinburne,  Uppsala,  1909 

Knauer,  Karl,  "Die  klangaesthetische  Kritik  des  Wortkunstwerks  am 
Beispiele  franzosischer  Dichtung,"  Deutsche  Vierteljahrschrift  jiir 
Liter aturwissenschajt  und  Geistesgeschichte,  XV  (1937),  pp.  69-91 

Lanz,  Henry,  The  Physical  Basis  of  Rime,  Stanford  University  Press,  1 93 1 

Masing,  W.,  Sprachliche  Musik  in  Goethes  Lyrik,  Strassburg,  19 10 

Richardson,  Charles  F.,  A  Study  of  English  Rhyme,  Hanover,  N.  H.,  1909 

Servien,  Pius,  Lyrisme  et  structures  sonores,  Paris,  1930 

Snyder,  Edward  D.,  Hypnotic  Poetry:  A  Study  of  Trance-Inducing  Tech- 
nique in  Certain  Poems  and  its  Literary  Significance,  Philadelphia, 
1930 

Vossler,  Karl,  "Stil,  Rhythmus  und  Reim  in  ihrer  Wechselwirkung  bei 
Petrarca  und  Leopardi,"  Miscellanea  di  studi  critici  .  .  .  in  onore  di 
Arturo  Graf,  Bergamo,  1903,  pp.  453-81 

Wilson,  Katharine  M.,  Sound  and  Meaning  in  English  Poetry,  London, 
1930 

Wimsatt,  W.  K.,  Jr.,  "One  Relation  of  Rhyme  to  Reason,"  Modern  Lan- 
guage Quarterly,  V  (1944),  pp.  323-38 

Wyld,  Henry  C,  Studies  in  English  Rhymes  from  Surrey  to  Pope,  London, 
1923 

Zhirmunsky,  Viktor,  Rifma,  ee  istoria  i  teoriya  (Rhyme,  its  History  and 
Theory),  Petrograd,  1 923 

Zschech,  Fritz,  Die  Kritik  des  Reims  in  England,  Berlin,  1 91 7  ("Berliner 
Beitrage  zur  germanischen  und  romanischen  Philologie,"  vol.  50) 


II.    RHYTHM    AND   PROSE    RHYTHM 


Blass,  Fr.,  Die  Rhythmen  der  antiken  Kunstprosa,  Leipzig,  190 1 

Cherel,  A.,  La  Prose  poetique  francaise,  Paris,  1 940 

Clark,  A.  C,  The  Cursus  in  Medieval  and  Vulgar  Latin,  Oxford,  1910 

,  Prose  Rhythm  in  English,  Oxford,  1913 

Classe,  Andre,  The  Rhythm  of  English  Prose,  Oxford,  1939 

Croll,  Morris  W.,  "The  Cadence  of  English  Oratorical  Prose,"  Studies  in 

Philology,  XVI  (1919),  pp.  1-55 
Elton,  Oliver,   "English  Prose  Numbers,"  A   Sheaf  of  Papers,   London, 

1922,  pp.  130-63 
Fijn  van  Draat,  P.,  "Rhythm  in  English  Prose,"  Anglia,  XXXVI  (191 2), 

pp.  1-58 
,  "Voluptas  Aurium,"  Englische  Studien,  XL VIII  (1914-15),  pp. 

394-428 


368  Bibliography 

Groot,  A.  W.  de,  A   Handbook  of  Antique  Prose-Rhythm,   Groningen, 
1 91 9,  Vol.  I 

,  "Der    Rhythmus,"    Neophilologus,   XVII    (1931),    pp.    81-100, 

177-97,  241-65 
Martin,  Eugene-Louis,  Les  Symmetries  du  frangais  litteraire,  Paris,  1924 
Norden,  Eduard,  Die  antike  Kunstprosa,  2  vols.,  Leipzig,  1898 
Patterson,  W.  M.,  The  Rhythm  of  Prose,  New  York,  1916.  (Columbia  Uni- 
versity Studies  in  English  No.  27) 
Scott,  John  Hubert,  Rhythmic  Prose.   (University  of  Iowa  Studies.  Hu- 
manistic Studies,  III,  No.  1),  Iowa  City,  1925 
Sekel,  Dietrich,  Holderlins  Sfrachrhythmus,  Leipzig,  1937 
Servien,  Pius,  Les  rhythmes  comme  introduction  physique  a  Pesthetique, 

Paris,  1930 
Vinogradov,  Viktor,  "Ritm  prozy  (po  Pikovej  dame)"  (Prose  Rhythm,  ac- 
cording to  the  Queen  of  Spades),  O  Stiche,  Statyi  (On  Verse,  Essays), 
Leningrad,  1929 

III.    METRICS 

1.  Work  in  English 

Barkas,    Pallister,   A    Critique   of  Modern   English   Prosody,    1880-1030 
(Studien  zur  englischen  Philologie,  ed.  Morsbach  and  Hecht,   82), 
Halle,  1934 
Baum,  P.  F.,  The  Principles  of  English  Versification,  Cambridge,  1922 
Croll,  Morris  W.,  "Music  and  metrics,"  Studies  in  Philology,  XX  (1923), 

pp.  388-94 
Dabney,  I.  P.,  The  Musical  Basis  of  Verse,  New  York,  1901 
Jacob,  Cary  T.,  The  Foundation  and  Nature  of  Verse,  New  York,  1 9 1 8 
Lanier,  Sidney,  Science  of  English  Verse,  New  York,  1880  (New  ed.  with 
introduction  by  P.  F.  Baum  in  Centennial  Edition,  ed.  Charles  An- 
derson, Baltimore,  1945,  Vol.  II,  pp.  vii-xlviii) 
Omond,  T.  S.,  English  Metrists,  Oxford,  192 1 
Pope,  John  C,  The  Rhythm  of  Beowulf,  New  Haven,  1942 
Schramm,  Wilbur  Lang,  Approaches  to  a  Science  of  Verse,  Iowa  City,  1935. 
(University  of   Iowa  Studies,   Series  on  Aims  and   Progress  of   Re- 
search), No.  46 
Stewart,  George  R.,  Jr.,  Modern  Metrical  Techniques  as  Illustrated  by 

Ballad  Meter,  ijoo-ig2o,  New  York,  1922 
,  The  Technique  of  English  Verse,  New  York,  1930 

2.  Some  Work  in  French,  German,  Russian  and  Czech 
Benoist-Hanappier,  Louis,  Die  freien  Rhythmen  in  der  deutschen  Lyrik, 
Halle,  1905 


Bibliography  369 

Eikhenbaum,  Boris,  Melodika  lyricheskogo  stikha  (The  Melody  of  Lyrical 

Verse),  St.  Petersburg,   1922 
Fraenkel,  Eduard,  Iktus.  und  Akzent  im  lateinischen  Sprechvers,   Berlin, 

1928 
Grammont,  Maurice,  Le  Vers  francais.  Ses  moyens  d) 'expression,  son  har- 

monie,  Paris,  191 3  (fourth  ed.,  1937) 
Heusler,  Andreas,  Deutsche  Versgeschichte,  3  vols.,  Berlin,  1925-29 
,    Deutscher   und   antiker    Vers,    Strassburg,    191 7    (Quellen    und 

Forschungen,  123) 
Jakobson,  Roman,  O  cheshkom  stikhe  (On  Czech  Verse),  Berlin,  1923 
,"Uber    den    Versbau    der    serbokroatischen    Volksepen,"    Archives 

neerlandaises   de    phonetique    experimental e,    VIII-IX    (1933))    pp. 

135-53 
Lote,  G.,  Ualexandrin  frangais  d'aprls  la  phonetique  experimental  e,  Paris, 

1913 

Meillet,  Antoine,  Les  origines  indo-europeennes  des  metres  grecs,  Paris, 

1923 
Morier,  Henri,  Le  rhythme  du  vers  libre  symboliste  etudie  chez  V  erhaeren, 

Henri  de  Regnier,  Viele-Griffin  et  ses  relations  avec  le  sens,  3  vols., 

Geneve,  1943-44 
Mukarovsky,    Jan,    "Dejiny    ceskeho    verse"    ("The    History    of    Czech 

Verse"),  Ceskoslovenska  vlastiveda,  Prague,   1934,  Vol.  Ill 
,  "Intonation    comme    facteur    de    rhythme    poetique,"  Archives 

neerlandaises    de   phonetique    experimentale,    VIII-IX    (1933),    pp. 

153-65 

Saran,  Franz,  Deutsche  Verslehre,  Munich,  1907 

,  Der  Rhythmus  des  franzosichen  Verses,  Halle,  1 904 

Scripture,  E.  W.,  Grundziige  der  englischen  Verswissenschajt,  Marburg, 
1929 

Sievers,  Wilhelm,  Rhythmisch-melodische  Studien,  Heidelberg,  191 2 

,  Altgermanische  Metrik,  Leipzig,  1893 

Tomashevsky,  Boris,  Ruskoe  stikhoslozhenye:  Metrika  {Russian  Versifica- 
tion: Metrics),  St.  Petersburg,  1923 

,  O  Stikhe:  Statyi.  (On  Verse:  Essays.)  Leningrad,  1929 

Tynyanov,  Yuryi  N.,  Problemy  stikhotvornago  yazyka  [Problems  of  Poetic 
Language),  St.  Petersburg,  1924 

Verrier,  Paul,  Essai  sur  les  principes  de  la  metrique  anglaise,  3  vols.,  Paris, 
1909 

Zhirmunsky,  Viktor,  Kompozitsiya  lyricheskikh  stikhotvorenii  (The  Com- 
position of  Lyrical  Poems),  Petrograd,  1921 

,  Vvedenie  v  metriku:  Teoriya  stikha.   (Introduction  to  Metrics. 

The  Theory  of  Verse.)  Leningrad,  1925 


370  Bibliography 

CHAPTER    XIV 

Style  and  Stylistics 

I.   THEORETICAL   DISCUSSIONS   AND   GENERAL   WORKS 

Alonso,  Amado,  "The  Stylistic  Interpretation  of  Literary  Texts,"  Modern 
Language  Notes,  LVII  (1942),  pp.  489-96 

Bally,  Charles,  Le  Langage  et  la  vie,  Paris,  1926  (also  Zurich,   1945) 

,  Linguistique  generale  et  linguistique  francaise,  Second  ed.,  Paris, 

1944 

Bateson,  F.  W.,  English  Poetry  and  the  English  Language,  Oxford,   1 934 

Bertoni,  Giulio,  Lingua  e  Cultura,  Florence,  1939 

,  Lingua  e  Pensiero,  Florence,   1932 

,  Lingua  e  Poesia,  Florence,  1937 

Brunot,  Ferdinand,  La  Pensee  et  la  langue,  Third  ed.,  Paris,   1936 

Castle,  Eduard,  "Zur  Entwicklungsgeschichte  des  Wortbegriffs  Stil," 
Gerfnanisch-romanische  Monatsschrift,  VI  (1914),  pp.  153-60 

Cooper,  Lane,  Theories  of  Style,  New  York,  1907 

Elster,  Ernst,  Prinzifien  der  Literaturzvissenschaft,  II,  Halle,  191 1  (in- 
cludes treatment  of  stylistics) 

Gerber,  Gustav,  Sfrache  als  Kunst,  2  vols.,  Bromberg,  1871  (Second  ed., 
1885) 

Gourmont,  Remy  de,  Le  Problhne  du  style,  Paris,  1902 

Hatzfeld,  Helmut  A.,  Nuevas  investigaciones  estilisticas  en  las  literaturas 
romanicas,  Prensas  de  la  Universidad  de  Chile,  1946 

,  "Romanistische    Stilforschung:    ein    Ruckblick    auf    die    letzten 

Jahre,"  Germanisch-romanische  Monatsschrift,  XVII  (1929),  pp. 
50-67 

Kainz,  Friedrich,  "Vorarbeiten  zu  einer  Philosophic  des  Stils,"  Zeitschrift 
fur  Asthetik,  XX  (1926),  pp.  21-63 

Leo,  Ulrich,  "Historie  und  Stilmonographie:  Grundsatzliches  zur  Stil- 
forschung," Deutsche  Vierteljahrschrift  fiir  Geistesgeschichte  und 
Literaturwissenschaft,  IX  (1931),  pp.  472-503 

Mapes,  E.  K.,  "Implications  of  Some  Recent  Studies  on  Style,"  Revue  de 
littcrature  comfaree,  XVIII  (1938),  pp.  514-33 

Marouzeau,  J.,  "Comment  aborder  l'etude  du  style,"  Le  Francais  moderne, 

xi  (1943).  PP-  1-6 

,  "Les  Taches  de  la  stylistique,"  Melanges  J.  Rozzuadozvski,  Cracow, 

1927,  Vol.  I,  pp.  47-51 
Murry,  John  Middleton,  The  Problem  of  Style,  Oxford,  1922 
Pongs,  Hermann,  "Zur  Methode  der  Stilforschung,"  Germanisch-roman- 
ische Monatsschrift,  XVII  (1929),  pp.  264-77 


Bibliography  37 1 

Raleigh,  Sir  Walter,  Style,  London,  1897 

Spitzer,  Leo,  Linguistics  and  Literary  History:  Essays  in  Stylistics,  Prince- 
ton, J  948 

,  Stilstudien,  2  vols.,  Munich,  1928 

,  Romanische  Stil-  und  Literaturstudien,  2  vols.,  Marburg,  1 93 1 

Spoerri,  Theophil,  Die  Formwerdung  des  Menschen,  Berlin,  1938 
Vossler,  Karl,  Gesammelte  Aufsdtze  zur  Sfrachfhilosofhie,  Munich,  1923 

,  Introduction  a  la  estilistica  romance,  Buenos  Aires,    1932    (new 

ed.,  1942) 
,  Positivismus  und  Idealismus  in  der  Sfrachwissenschaft,   Heidel- 


berg, 1904 
Wallach,  W.,  Uber  Anwendung  und  Bedeutung  des  Wortes  Stil,  Munich, 

1919 
Winkler,    Emil,    "Die    neuen    Wege    und    Aufgaben    der    Stilistik,"    Die 

neueren  Sfrachen,  XXXIII  (1923),  pp.  407-22 
,  Grundlegung  der  Stilistik,  Bielefeld,  1929 

II.  SPECIMEN    STYLISTIC   STUDIES   OF   INDIVIDUAL   WORKS   AND   AUTHORS 

Alonso,  Amado,  Poesia  y  estilo  de  Pablo  Neruda,  Buenos  Aires,  1940 
Alonso,  Damaso,  La  lengua  foetica  de  Gongora,  Madrid,  1935 

,  La  poesia  de  San  Juan  de  la  Cruz,  Madrid,  1942 

Croll,    Morris   W.,    Introduction    to    Harry    demons'    edition    of    Lyly's 

Eufhues,  London,  1916 
Dyboski,  Roman,  Tennysons  Sfrache  und  Stil,  Vienna,  1 907 
Hatzfeld,  Helmut,  Don  Quijote  als  Wortkunstzverk:  Die  einzelnen  Stil- 

mittel  und  ihr  Sinn,  Leipzig,  1927 
Leo,  Ulrich,  Fogazzaros  Stil  und  der  symbolische  Lebensroman,  Heidel- 
berg, 1928 
Jirat,  Vojtech,  Platens  Stil,  Prague,  1933 
Mukafovsky,    Jan,   Machiiv  Mdj:   Estetickd   studie.    {Macho's  May:   An 

Aesthetic  Study),  Prague,  1928  (with  French  resume) 
Vinogradov,  Viktor,  Stil  Pushkina,  Moscow,  1 941 

Wimsatt,  William  K.,  The  Prose  Style  of  Samuel  Johnson,  New  Haven, 
1941 

III.  STUDIES  ON  POETIC  LANGUAGE  AND  POETIC   DICTION 

Barfield,  Owen,  Poetic  Diction:  A  Study  in  Meaning,  London,  1925 
Hatzfeld,  Helmut,  "The  Language  of  the  Poet,"  Studies  in  Philology, 

XLIII  (1946),  pp.  93-120 
Miles,  Josephine,  Wordsworth  and  the  Vocabulary  of  Emotion,  Berkeley, 

1942 


372  Biblio  grafhy 

Quayle,  Thomas,  Poetic  Diction:  A  Study  of  Eighteenth  Century  Verse, 
London,  1924 

Raymond,  Marcel,  "Le  poete  et  la  langue,"  Trivium:  Schweizerische  Vier- 
teljahrschrijt  fiir  Liter aturwiss ens chaft  uni  Stilistik,  II  (1944), 
pp.  2-25 

Rubel,  Vere  L.,  Poetic  Diction  in  the  English  Renaissance  from  Skelton 
through  Spenser,  New  York,  194 1 

Rylands,  George,  Words  and  Poetry,  London,  1928 

Tate,  Allen  (ed.),  The  Language  of  Poetry,  Princeton,  1942 

Tillotson,  Geoffrey,  "Eighteenth  Century  Poetic  Diction,"  Essays  in  Criti- 
cism and  Research,  Cambridge,  1942,  pp.  53-85 

Wheelwright,  Philip,  "On  the  Semantics  of  Poetry,"  Kenyon  Review,  II 
(1940),  pp.  263-83 

Wyld,  H.  C,  Some  Aspects  of  the  Diction  of  English  Poetry,  Oxford, 

1933 

IV.   SOME   STYLISTIC   WORK   ON   PERIOD-STYLES 

Bally,  Charles;  Richter,  Elise;  Alonso,  Amado;  Lida,  Raymond:  El  im- 

presionismo  en  el  lenguaje,  Buenos  Aires,  1936 
Barat,  Emmanuel,  Le  Style  poetique  et  la  revolution  romantique,  Paris, 

1904 
Gautier,    Rene,    Deux   Aspects   du  style   classique:   Bossuet,    Voltaire,   La 

Rochelle,  1936 
Hatzfeld,    Helmut,    "Der    Barockstil    der   religosen    klassischen    Lyrik    in 

Frankreich,"   Literaturztnssenschaftliches  Jahrbuch   der   Gorresgesell- 
schaft,  IV  (1929),  pp.  30-60 
,  "Die  franzosische  Klassik  in  neuer  Sicht,"  Tijdschrift  voor  Taal 

en  Letter  en,  XXVII  (1935),  pp.  213-82 
-,  "Rokoko    als    literarischer    Epochenstil,"    Studies    in    Philology t 


XXXIII  (1938),  pp.  532-65 
Croll,   Morris   W.,    "The    Baroque   Style   in    Prose,"   Studies  in  English 

Philology :  A  Miscellany  in  Honor  of  F.  Klaeber  (Ed.  K.  Malone  and 

M.  B.  Ruud),  Minneapolis,  1929,  pp.  427-56 
Heinzel,  Richard,   Uber  den  Stil  der  altgermanischen  Poesie,  Strassburg, 

1875 
Petrich,  Hermann,  Drei  Kapitel  vom  romantischen  Stil,  Leipzig,  1878 
Raymond,    Marcel,    "Classique   et    Baroque    dans   la   poesie    de    Ronsard," 

Concinnitas:  Festschrift  fiir  Heinrich  WolfJUn   (Basel,    1944),  pp. 

137-73 
Strich,    Fritz,   "Der   lyrische  Stil   des    17.   Jahrhunderts,"   Abhandlungen 

%ur  deutschen   Literaturgeschichte:   Festschrift   fiir  Franz   Muncker 

(Munich,  1916),  pp.  21-53 
Thon,  Luise,  Die  Sprache  des  deutschen  Impressionismus,  Munich,   1928 


Bibliography  373 

V.   STYLISTICS  OF   INDIVIDUAL  LANGUAGES,    COMPARATIVE   STYLISTICS 

Bally,  Charles,  Traite  de  stylistique  frangaise,  2  vols.,  Heidelberg,   1 909 
Dauzat,  Albert,  Le  genie  de  la  langue  frangaise,  Paris,  1943 
Lerch,  E.,  Franzosische  Sfrache  und  Wesensart,  Frankfurt,  a.  M.,  1933 
,  "Spanische  Sprache  und  Wesensart,"  Handbuch  der  Spanienkunde 

(ed.  Schellberg  and  Hartig),  Frankfurt,  1932,  pp.  147-200 
Marouzeau,  J.,  Precis  de  stylistique  frangaise,  Paris,  1941  (new  ed.,  1946) 
Meyer,  Richard  Moritz,  Deutsche  S tilts tik,  second  ed.,  Munich,  191 3 
Roberts,  Murat  H.,  "The  Science  of  Idiom:  A  Method  of  Inquiry  into 

the    Cognitive    Design    of    Language,"    PMLA,    LIX    (1944),    pp. 

291-306 
Schneider,    Wilhelm,   Die   Ausdruckstverte   der  deutschen   Sfrache:   Eine 

Stilkunde,  Leipzig,  1 93  1 
Vossler,   Karl,   Frankreichs  Kultur  im  Spiegel  seiner  Sfrachentwicklung, 

Heidelberg,     191 3     (new    ed.,     1929,    as    Frankreichs    Kultur    und 

Sfrache) 

CHAPTER    XV 

Image,  Metaphor,  Symbol,  and  Myth 

I.   IMAGERY,    METAPHOR 

Aish,  Deborah,  La  Metaphor e  dans  Vceuvre  de  Mallarme,  Paris,  1938 

Brandenburg,  Alice  S.,  "The  Dynamic  Image  in  Metaphysical  Poetry," 
PMLA,  LVII  (1942),  pp.  1039-45 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  "Shakespeare  as  a  Symbolist  Poet,"  Yale  Review,  XXXIV 
(1945),  pp.  642-65.  (Reprinted  as  "The  Naked  Babe  and  the  Cloak 
of  Manliness,"  The  Well  Wrought  Urn,  New  York,  1947,  pp.  21-46) 

Brown,  Stephen  J.,  The  World  of  Imagery:  Metaphor  and  Kindred  Im- 
agery, London,  1927 

Burke,  Kenneth,  "Four  Master  Tropes"  (metaphor,  metonymy,  synec- 
doche, and  irony),  A   Gram-mar  of  Motives,  New  York,    1946,  pp. 

503-17 
Clemen,  Wolfgang,  Shakespeares  Bilder:  Ihre  Entwicklung  und  ihre  Funk- 

tionen  im  dramatischen  Werk  .  .  .  ,  Bonn,   1936 
Fogle,  Richard  H.,  "Empathic  Imagery  in  Keats  and  Shelley,"  PMLA, 

LXI  (1946),  pp.   163-91 
Foster,  Genevieve  W.,  "The  Archetypal  Imagery  of  T.  S.  Eliot,"  PMLA, 

LX  (1945)5  PP-  567-85 
Hornstein,    Lillian    H.,    "Analysis   of   Imagery:    A   Critique   of   Literary 
Method,"  PMLA,  LVII  (1942),  pp.  638-53 

Jakobson,  Roman,  "Randbemerkungen  zur  Prosa  des  Dichters  Pasternak," 

Slavische  Rundschau  (ed.  F.  Spina),  VII  (1935),  pp.  3 57-74 
Konrad,  Hedwig,  Etude  sur  la  metaphor e,  Paris,  1939 


374  Biblio  graphy 

Murry,  J.  Middleton,  "Metaphor,"  Countries  of  the  Mind,  2nd  series, 
London,  I93i,pp.  1-16 

Parry,  Milman,  "The  Traditional  Metaphor  in  Homer,"  Classical  Phi- 
lology, XXVIII  (1933),  pp.  30-43 

Pongs,  Hermann,  Das  Bild  in  der  Dichtung,  I:  Versuch  einer  Morfhologie 
der  metaphorischen  Formen,  Marburg,  1927,  II:  Voruntersuchungen 
zum  Symbol,  Marburg,  1939 

Praz,  Mario,  Studies  in  Seventeenth  Century  Imagery  ("Studies  of  the 
Warburg  Institute,"  III,  London,  1939) 

Rugoff,  Milton,  Donne's  Imagery:  A  Study  in  Creative  Sources,  New 
York,  1939 

Spurgeon,  Caroline,  Shakespeare's  Imagery  and  What  it  Tells  Us,  Cam- 
bridge, 1935 

Stanford,  William  B.,  Greek  Metafhor:  Studies  in  Theory  and  Practice, 
Oxford,  1936 

Tuve,  Rosemond,  Elizabethan  and  Metaphysical  Imagery:  Renaissance 
Poetic  and  Twentieth-Century  Critics,  Chicago,   1947 

Wells,  Henry  W.,  Poetic  Imagery:  Illustrated  from  Elizabethan  Literature, 
New  York,  1924 

Werner,  Heinz,  Die  Urspriinge  der  Metapher,  Leipzig,  1919 

II.    SYMBOLISM,   THE    MYTH 

Allen,  Don  Cameron,  "Symbolic  Color  in  the  Literature  of  the  English 
Renaissance,"  Philological  Quarterly,  XV  (1936),  pp.  81-92  (with 
a  bibliography  for  heraldry  and  liturgy) 

Bachelard,  Gaston,  L'eau  et  les  reves  .   .  .  ,  Paris,  1942 

,  La  Psychoanalyse  de  feu,  4th  ed.,  Paris,  1938 

Bodkin,  Maud,  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry,  Oxford,  1934 

Bush,  Douglas,  Mythology  and  the  Renaissance  Tradition  in  English 
Poetry,  Minneapolis,   1932 

,  Mythology  and  the  Romantic  Tradition  in  English  Poetry,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  1937 

Cailliet,  Emile,  Symbolisme  et  antes  primitives,  Paris,  1936 

Caillois,  Roger,  Le  My  the  et  P  Homme  (Collection  "Les  Essais"),  Paris, 
/938 

Cassirer,  Ernst,  Die  Philosophic  der  symbolischen  Formen,  II,  Das 
mythische  Denken,  Berlin,   1924 

Chase,  Richard,  "Notes  on  the  Study  of  Myth,"  Partisan  Review,  XIII 
(1946),  pp.  238-47 

Dunbar,  Helen  Flanders,  Symbolism  in  Mediaeval  Thought  and  its  Con- 
summation in  the  Divine  Comedy,  New  Haven,  1929 

Guastalla,  Rene  M.,  Le  My  the  et  le  livre:  essai  sur  I'origine  de  la  lit- 
terature,  Paris,  1 940 


Bibliography  375 

Hinks,  Roger,  Myth  and  Allegory  in  Ancient  Art,  London,  1939 

Hooke,  Samuel  H.,  Myth  ani  Ritual,  Oxford,  1933 

Hungerford,  Edward,  Shores  of  Darkness,  New  York,  194 1 

Hunt,  Herbert  J.,  The  Epic  in  Nineteenth  Century  France:  A  Study  in 
Heroic  and  Humanitarian  Poetry  from  Les  Martyrs  to  Les  Siecles 
Morts,  Oxford,  194 1 

Knight,  G.  Wilson,  The  Wheel  of  Fire:  Essays  in  Interpretation  of  Shake- 
speare's Sombre  Tragedies,  with  an  introduction  by  T.  S.  Eliot,  Lon- 
don, 1930 

Langer,  Susanne  K.,  Philosophy  in  a  New  Key:  A  Study  in  the  Symbolism 
of  Reason,  Rite,  and  Art,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1942 

Niebuhr,  Reinhold,  "The  Truth  Value  of  Myths,"  in  The  Nature  of 
Religious  Experience:  Essays  in  Honor  of  Douglas  C.  Macintosh, 
New  York,   1 93 7 

O'Donnell,  G.  M.,  "Faulkner's  Mythology,"  Kenyon  Review,  I  (1939), 
pp.  285-99 

Prescott,  Frederick  C,  Poetry  and  Myth,  New  York,  1927 

Raglan,  Lord,  The  Hero:  A  Study  in  Tradition,  Myth,  and  Drama,  Lon- 
don, 1937 

Schorer,  Mark,  "Mythology  (for  the  study  of  William  Blake),"  Kenyon 
Review,  IV  (1942),  pp.  366-80 

Stewart,  John  A.,  The  Myths  of  Plato,  London,  1905 

Strich,  Fritz,  Die  Mythologie  in  der  deutschen  Literatur  von  Klopstock 
bis  Wagner,  Berlin,  1910,  2  vols. 

Troy,  William,  "Thomas  Mann:  Myth  and  Reason,"  Partisan  Review,  V 
(1938),  pp.  24-32,  51-64 

Westcott,  Brooke  F.,  "The  Myths  of  Plato,"  Essays  in  the  History  of 
Religious  Thought  in  the  West,  London,  1891,  pp.  7-50 

Wheelwright,  Philip,  "Poetry,  Myth,  and  Reality,"  The  Language  of 
Poetry  (ed.  Tate),  1942,  pp.  3-33 

CHAPTER    XVI 

The  Nature  and  Modes  of  Fiction 

I.   EPIC,   NOVEL,  AND  TALE 

Aarne,  A.,  and  Thompson,  S.,  Types  of  the  Folk-Tale,  Helsinki,  1928 

Ames,  Van  Meter,  Aesthetics  of  the  Novel,  Chicago,  1928 

Auerbach,  Erich,  Mimesis:  Dargestellte  Wirklichkeit  in  der  abendl'dnd- 

ischen  Literatur,  Bern,  1946 
Barzun,     Jacques,     "Our     Non-Fiction     Novelists,"     Atlantic     Monthly, 

CLXXVIII  (1946),  pp.  129-32 


376  Bibliography 

Beach,  Joseph  Warren,  The  Twentieth  Century  Novel:  Studies  in  Tech- 
nique, New  York,  1932 

Bjorkman,  Edwin,  "Fiction  and  Life,"  Virginia  Quarterly,  VII  (1931), 
pp.  271-80 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  and  Warren,  R.  P.,   Understanding  Fiction,  New  York, 

1943 
Brown,   E.   K.,   "Two   Formulas   for  Fiction:   Henry  James   and   H.    G. 

Wells,"  College  English,  VIII  (1946),  pp.  7-17 

Caillois,  Roger,  Sociologia  de  la  Novela,  Buenos  Aires,  1942 

Chekhov,  Anton,  Letters  071  the  Short  Story,  the  Drama,  and  other  Literary 
Topics,  New  York,  1924 

Dibelius,  Wilhelm,  Englische  Romankunst :  Die  Technik  des  englischen 
Romans  im  achtzehnten  und  %u  An  fang  des  neunzehnten  Jahr- 
hunderts,  Vols.  I  and  II  (Palaestra,  Nos.  92  and  98),  Berlin  and 
Leipzig,  1922 

,  Charles  Dickens,  Leipzig,    1916   (second  edition,    1926),  Chap. 

12,  "Erzahlungskunst  und  Lebensbild";  Chap.  II,  "Dickens  als 
Menschendarsteller" 

Follett,  Wilson,  The  Modern  Novel:  A  Study  of  the  Purpose  and  Mean- 
ing of  Fiction,  New  York,  1 9 1 8 

Forster,  E.  M.,  Aspects  of  the  Novel,  London,  1927 

Frank,  Joseph,  "Spatial  Form  in  Modern  Literature  (esp.  the  novel)," 
Sewanee  Review,  LIII  (1945),  pp.  221-40,  433-56.  Reprinted  in 
Criticism  (ed.  Schorer,  Miles,  and  McKenzie),  New  York,  1948,  pp. 
379-92 

Friedemann,  Kate,  Die  Rolle  des  Erzdhlers  in  der  Epik,  191 1 

Grabo,  Carl  H.,  The  Technique  of  the  Novel,  New  York,   1928 

Hatcher,  Anna  G.,  "Voir  as  a  Modern  Novelistic  Device,"  Philological 
Quarterly,  XXIII  (1944)*  PP-  3  54"74 

Irwin,  William  R.,  The  Making  of  Jonathan  Wild:  A  Study  in  the  Lit- 
erary Method  of  Henry  Fielding,  New  York,  1 941 

James,  Henry,  The  Art  of  the  Novel:  Critical  Prefaces,  New  York,  1934 

Keiter,  Heinrich,  and  Keller,  Tony,  Der  Romati:  Geschichte,  Theorie, 
und  Technik  des  Romans  und  der  erz'dhlenden  Dichtkunst,  third  ed., 
Essen-Ruhr,  1908 

Koskimies,  R.,  Theorie  des  Romans,  Annals  of  the  Finnish  Academy, 
Series  B,  Vol.  XXXV,  Helsinki,  1935 

Levin,  Harry,  "The  Novel,"  Dictionary  of  World  Literature  (ed.  J.  T. 
Shipley),  New  York,  1943,  pp.  405-7 

Lubbock,  Percy,  The  Craft  of  Fiction,  London,   1929 

Ludwig,  Otto,  Studien  (incl.  "Romanstudien"),  Gesamimlte  Schriften, 
VI,  Leipzig,  1 891 


Bibltografhy  377 

Lukacs,   Georg,   Die   Theorie  des  Romans:  Ein  geschichtsfhilosofhischer 

Versuch  iiber  die  Formen  ier  grossen  Efik,  Berlin,  1920 
Mauriac,  Frangois,  Le  Romancier  et  ses  fersonnages,  Paris,  1933 
Muir,  Edwin,  The  Structure  of  the  Novel,  London,  1929 
Myers,  Walter  L.,   The  Later  Realism:  A   Study   of  Characterization  in 

the  British  Novel,  Chicago,  1927 
O'Connor,  William   V.    (ed.),  Forms  of  Modem  Fiction,   Minneapolis, 

1948 
Petsch,  Robert,  Wesen  und  Formen  der  Erz'dhlkunst,  Halle,   1934 
Phillips,   Walter   C,   Dickens,   Reade,   and   Collins,   Sensation   Novelists: 
A  Study  in  the  Conditions  and  Theories  of  Novel  Writing  in  Vic- 
torian England,  New  York,  1 91 9 
Rickword,  C.  H.,  "A  Note  on  Fiction,"  The  Calendar,  A   Quarterly  Re- 
view, III  (1926-27),  pp.  226-33.  Reprinted  in  O'Connor,  of.  cit.y 
pp.  294-305 
Riemann,  Robert,  Goethes  Romantechnik,  Leipzig,  1902 
Spielhagen,   Friedrich,  Beitrage  zur  Theorie  und  Technik   des  Romans, 

Leipzig,  1883 
Tate,  Allen,  "Techniques  of  Fiction,"  Sewanee  Review,  LII  (1944),  pp. 

210-25.  Reprinted  in  O'Connor,  of.  cit.,  pp.  30-45 
Thibaudet,  Albert,  Le  liseur  de  romans,  Paris,  1925 

,  Reflexions  sur  le  Roman,  Paris,  1938 

Walzel,  Oskar,  Das  W ortkunstwerk :  Mittel  seiner  Erforschung,  Leipzig, 

1926 
Wenger,  J.,  "Speed  as  a  Technique  in  the  Novels  of  Balzac,"  PMLA, 

LV  (1940),  pp.  241-52 
Wharton,  Edith,  The  Writing  of  Fiction,  New  York,  1924 
Whitcomb,  Selden  L.,  The  Study  of  a  Novel,  Boston,  1905 
Whiteford,  R.  N.,  Motives  in  English  Fiction,  New  York,  191 8 

II.   DRAMA 

Archer,  William,  Playmaking,  London,   191 2 

Bentley,  Eric,  The  Playwright  as  Thinker,  New  York,  1946 

Bethell,  S.  L.,  Shakesfeare  and  the  Pofular  Dramatic  Tradition,  London, 
1944 

Bradbrook,  M.  C,  Themes  and  Conventions  of  Elizabethan  Tragedy, 
Cambridge,  1935 

Chekhov,  Anton,  Letters  on  the  Short  Story,  the  Drama,  and  other  Lit- 
erary Tofics,  New  York,   1924 

Clark,  Barrett  H.,  Eurofean  Theories  of  the  Drama  .  .  .  ,  New  York. 
1918  and  1947 

Ellis-Fermor,  Una,  The  Frontiers  of  Drama,  London,  1946 


378  Bibliography 

Nicoll,  Allardyce,  The  Theory  of  Drama,  London,  1 931 
Polti,  Georges,  The  Thirty-Six  Dramatic  Situations,  New  York,   1916 
Sarcey,  Francisque,  Quarante  annees  du  theatre,  Vol.  I,  Paris,  1900 
Slosson,  Edwin  J.,  and  Downey,  June,  Plots  and  Personalities,  New  York, 
1922 

CHAPTER    XVII 

Literary  Genres 

Behrens,  Irene,  Die  Lehre  von  der  Einteilung  der  Dichtkunst:  Beihefte 

zur  Zeitschrift  filr  Romanische  Philologie,  XCII,  Halle,  1940 
Bohm,  Franz  J.,  "BegrifT  und  Wesen  des  Genre,"  Zeitschrift  filr  Asthetik, 

XXII  (1928),  pp.  186-91 
Bond,  Richmond  P.,  English  Burlesque  Poetry,  Cambridge,  Mass.,    1932 
Brie,  Friedrich,  Englische  Rokoko-Epik  (1710-30),  Munich,   1927 
Brunetiere,   Ferdinand,  V Evolution  des  genres  dans  Phistoire  de  la  lit- 

terature  .  .  .  ,  Paris,   1898 
Burke,    Kenneth,    "Poetic    Categories,"    Attitudes   toward   History    (New 

York,  1937),  I,  pp.  41-119 
Donohue,  James  J.,  The  Theory  of  Literary  Kinds:  Ancient  Classifications 

of  Literature,  Dubuque,  Iowa,  194.3 
Ehrenpreis,  Irwin,  The  "Types"  Approach  to  Literature,  New  York,  1945 
Grabowski,  T.,  "La  question  des  genres  litteraires  dans  l'etude  contempo- 

raine  polonaise  de  la  litterature,"  Helicon,  II  (1939),  pp.  211-16 
Hankiss,  Jean,  "Les  genres  litteraires  et  leur  base  psychologique,"  Helicon, 

II  (i939)>  PP-  117-29 

Hartl,  Robert,  Versuch  einer  psychologischen  Grundlegung  der  Dichtungs- 

gattungen,  Vienna,  1923 
Jolles,  Andre,  Einfache  Formen:  Legende,  Sage,   My  the,   R'dtsel,   Spiel, 

Kasus,  Memorabile,  Marchen,  Witz,  Halle,   1930 
Kohler,  Pierre,  "Contribution  a  une  philosophic  des  genres,"  Helicon,  I 

(1938),  pp.  233-44;  II  (1940),  pp.  135-47 
Kridl,    Manfred,    "Observations    sur    les    genres    de    la    poesie    lyrique," 

Helicon,  II  (1939),  pp.   147-56 
Mautner,  Franz  H.,  "Der  Aphorismus  als  literarische  Gattung,"  Zeitschrift 

fur  Asthetik,  XXXII  (1938),  pp.  132-75 
Miiller,    Gunther,    "Bemerkungen    zur    Gattungspoetik,"    Philosophischer 

Anzeiger,  III  (1929),  pp.  129-47 

,  Geschichte  des  deutschen  Liedes  .  .  .  ,  Munich,   1925 

Pearson,  N.  H.,  "Literary  Forms  and  Types,"   .   .   .   ,   English  Institute 

Annual,  1040,  New  York,  194 1,  pp.  61-72 
Petersen,  Julius,   "Zur   Lehre   von   den   Dichtungsgattungen,"   Festschrift 

fur  August  Sauer,  Stuttgart,  1925,  pp.  72-116 


Bibliografhy  379 

Petsch,  Robert,  Wesen  und  Formen  der  Erz'dhlkunst,  Halle,  1934 

Staiger,  Emil,  Grundbegriffe  der  Poetik,  Zurich,  1946 

Valentin,  Veit,  "Poetische  Gattungen,"  Zeitschrift  filr  vergleichende  Lit- 
ter aturges  chic  htey  V  (1892),  pp.  35-51 

Van  Tieghem,  P.,  "La  Question  des  genres  litteraires,"  Helicon,  I  (1938), 
pp.  95-101 

Vie'tor,  Karl,  Geschichte  der  deutschen  Ode,  Munich,  1923  (Vol.  I  in 
Geschichte  der  deutschen  Literatur  nach  Gattungen  .  .  .) 

,  "Probleme  der  literarischen  Gattungsgeschichte,"  Deutsche  Vier- 

teljahrschrijt  filr  Literaturzvissenschaft  und  Geistes geschichte,  IX 
(1931),  pp.  425-47 

Whitmore,  Charles  E.,  "The  Validity  of  Literary  Definitions,"  PMLA, 
XXXIX  (1924),  pp.  722-36 

CHAPTER    XVIII 

Evaluation 

Alexander,  Samuel,  Beauty  and  Other  Forms  of  Value,  London,  1933 

Beriger,  Leonhard,  Die  literarische  Wertung,  Halle,  1938 

Boas,  George,  A  Primer  for  Critics,  Baltimore,  1937 

Garnett,  A.  C,  Reality  and  Value,  New  Haven,  1937 

Heyde,  Johannes,  Wert:  eine  fhilosofhische  Grundlegung,  Erfurt,   1926 

Heyl,  Bernard  C,  New  Bearings  in  Esthetics  and  Art  Criticism:  A  Study 

in  Setnantics  and  Evaluation,  New  Haven,  1943 
Laird,  John,  The  Idea  of  Value,  Cambridge,  1929 
Pell,  Orlie  A.,  Value-Theory  and  Criticism,  New  York,  1930 
Pepper,  Stephen  C,  The  Basis  of  Criticism  in  the  Arts,  Cambridge,  Mass., 

1945 

Perry,  Ralph  B.,  General  Theory  of  Value,  New  York,  1926 
Prall,  David  W.,  A  Study  in  the  Theory  of  Value,  "University  of  Cali- 
fornia Publications  in  Philosophy,"  Vol.  Ill,  No.  2,  1921 
Reid,  John  R.,  A  Theory  of  Value,  New  York,  1938 
Rice,    Philip    Blair,    "Quality   and    Value,"    Journal   of   Philosophy,   XL 

(i943)>  PP-  337-48 
,  "Towards  a  Syntax  of  Valuation,"  Journal  of  Philosophy,  XLI 

(1944),  pp.  331-63 
Stevenson,  Charles  L.,  Ethics  and  Language,  New  Haven,  1944 
Vivas,  Eliseo,  "A  Note  on  Value,"  Journal  of  Philosophy,  XXXIII  (1936), 

pp.  568-75 
,  "The    Esthetic    Judgment,"    Journal    of    Philosophy,    XXXIII 

(1936),  pp.  57-69 
Urban,  Wilbur,  Valuation:  Its  Nature  and  Laws,  New  York,  1 909 


380  Bibliography 

CHAPTER    XIX 

Literary  History 

I.  THEORETICAL   DISCUSSIONS   OF   PERIODISATION 

Cazamian,  Louis,  "La  Notion  de  retours  periodiques  dans  1'histoire  lit- 
teraire," Essais  en  deux  langues,  Paris,   1938,  pp.  3-10 

,  "Les  Periodes  dans  Phistoire  de  la  litterature  anglaise  moderne," 

Ibid.,  pp.  11-22 

Cysarz,  Herbert,  "Das  Periodenprinzip  in  der  Literaturwissenschaft," 
Philosofhie  der  Literaturwissenschaft   (ed.   E.   Ermatinger),   Berlin, 

1930,  pp.  92"I29 
Foerster,  Max,  "The  Psychological  Basis  of  Literary  Periods,"  Studies  for 

William  A.  Read,  Louisiana,  1940,  pp.  254-68 
Friedrich,   H.,   "Der   Epochebegriff   im   Lichte   der   franzosischen   Prero- 

mantismeforschung,"  Neue  Jahrbucher  fiir  Wissenschaft  und  Jugend- 

bildung,  X  (1934),  pp.  124-40 
Meyer,    Richard    Moritz,    "Prinzipien    der    wissenschaftlichen    Perioden- 

bildung,"  Eufhorion,  VIII  (1901),  pp.  1-42 
"Le  Second  Congres  International  d'histoire  litteraire,  Amsterdam,   1935: 

Les  Periodes  dans  l'histoire  litteraire  depuis  la  Renaissance,"  Bulletin 

of  the  International  Committee  of  the  Historical  Sciences,  IX  (1937), 

pp.  255-398 
Wellek,  Rene,  "Periods  and  Movements  in  Literary  History,"  English  In- 
stitute Annual,  1940,  New  York,   1941,  pp.  73-93 
Wiese,  Benno  von,  "Zur  Kritik  des  geisteswissenschaftlichen  Periodenbe- 

griffes,"   Deutsche    Vierteljahrschrift   filr  Literaturwissenschaft   und 

Geistesgeschichte,  XI  (1933),  pp.  1 30-44 

II.  SOME  DISCUSSIONS  OF  THE   MAIN   PERIOD-TERMS 

i.  Renaissance: 

Borinski,  Karl,  Die  Weltwiedergeburtsidee  in  den  neuere?i  Zeiten.  I.  Der 
Streit  um  die  Re?zaissance  und  die  Entstehungsgeschichte  der  histor- 
ischen  B  eziehungsbe  griff  e  "Renaissance"  und  "Mittel  alter"  Munich, 
1919 

Burdach,  Konrad,  "Sinn  und  Ursprung  der  Worte  Renaissance  und  Refor- 
mation," Reformation,  Renaissance,  Humanismus,  Berlin,  1926,  pp. 
1-84 

Eppelsheimer,  H.  W.,  "Das  Renaissanceproblem,"  Deutsche  Vierteljahr- 
schrift filr  Literaturwissenschaft  und  Geistesgeschichte,  II  (1933), 
pp.  477-500 


Bibliography  381 

Fife,  R.  H.,  "The  Renaissance  in  a  Changing  World,"  Germanic  Review, 

IX,  pp.  73-95 
Huizinga,  J.,  "Das  Problem  der  Renaissance,"  Wege  der  Kulturgeschichte 

(tr.  Werner  Kaegi),  Munich,  1 930,  pp.  89-139 
Panofsky,    Erwin,    "Renaissance   and   Renascences,"   Kenyon   Review,   VI 

(1944),  pp.  201-36 
Philippi,  A.,  Der  Begriff  der  Renaissance:  Daten  zu  seiner  Geschichte, 

Leipzig,  191 2 

2.  Classicism: 

Moreau,  Pierre,  "Qu'est-ce  qu'un  classique?  Qu'est-ce  qu'un  romantique?," 

Le  Glassicisme  des  Romantiques,  Paris,  1932,  pp.  1-22 
Peyre,  Henri,  Le  Classicisme  francais,  New  York,  1942  (contains  chapter 

"Le  Mot  Classicisme"  and  annotated  bibliography) 
Van    Tieghem,    Paul,    "Classique,"    Revue    de   synthese    historique,    XLI 

(1931),  pp.  238-41 

5.  Baroque: 

Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Concept  of  Baroque  in  Literary  Scholarship,"  Journal 
of  Aesthetics,  V  (1946),  pp.  7 7-1 09  (with  full  bibliography) 

4.  Romanticism: 

Aynard,  Joseph,  "Comment  definir  le  romantisme?,"  Revue  de  litterature 

comfaree,  V  (1925),  pp.  64 1 -5  8 
Baldensperger,  Fernand,  "Romantique — ses  analogues  et  equivalents,"  Har- 
vard Studies  and  Notes  in  Philology  and  Literature,  XIV  (1937),  pp. 

13-105 
Borgese,  G.  A.,  "Romanticism,"  Encyclopedia  of  the  Social  Sciences,  XIII 

(1934),  PP.  426-34 
Croce,    Benedetto,    "Le    Definizioni    del    romanticismo,"    La    Critica,    IV 

(1906),  pp.  241-45   (reprinted  in  Problemi  di  estetica,  Bari,   1910, 

pp.  287-94) 
Frangois,  Alexis,  "De  Romantique  a  romantisme,"  Bibliothlque  universelle 

et  Revue  Suisse,  CXLI  (1918),  pp.  225-33,  365-76 
,  "Ou  en  est  Romantique?,"  Melanges  ojferts  a  F.  Baldens  ferger, 

Paris,  1930,  Vol.  I,  pp.  321-31 
-,  "Romantique,"  Annales  Jean-Jaques  Rousseau,  V  (1909),  pp.  199- 


236 

Kaufman,  Paul,  "Defining  Romanticism:  A  Survey  and  a  Program," 
Modern  Language  Notes,  XL  (1925),  pp.  193-204 

Lempicki,  Sigmund  von,  "Biicherwelt  und  wirkliche  Welt,"  Deutsche  Vier- 
teljahrschrijt  fur  Literaturwissenschaft  und  Geistesgeschichte,  III 
(1925),  pp.  339-86 


382  Bibliography 

Love  joy,  Arthur  O.,  "On  the  Discrimination  of  Romanticisms,"  Publica- 
tions of  the  Modern  Language  Association,  XXXIX  (1924),  pp. 
229-53.  Reprinted  in  Essays  in  the  History  of  Ideas,  Baltimore, 
1948,  pp.  228-53 

Petersen,  Julius,  Die  W  esensbestimmung  der  deutschen  Romantik,  Leipzig, 
1926 

Schultz,  Franz,  "Romantik  unci  Romantisch  als  literaturgeschichtliche  Ter- 
minologie  und  Begriffsbildungen,"  Deutsche  Vierteljahrschrift  fur 
Literaturzcissenschaft  und  Geistesgeschichte,  II    (1924),  pp.    349-66 

Smith,  Logan  P.,  Tour  Words:  Romantic,  Originality,  Creative,  Genius 
(Society  for  Pure  English  Tract,  No.  17),  Oxford,  1924  (reprinted 
in  Words  and  Idioms,  Boston,  1925) 

Ullmann,  Richard,  and  Gotthard,  Helene,  Geschichte  des  Begriffs  "Ro- 
mantisch" in  Deutschland,  Berlin,  1927 

5.  Realism: 

Borgerhoff,  E.  B.  O.,  "Realisme  and  Kindred  Words:  Their  Use  as  a  Term 
of  Literary  Criticism  in  the  First  Half  of  the  Nineteenth  Century," 
Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association,  LIII   (1938),  pp. 

83  7-43 
Weinberg,    Bernard,   French   Realism:    The   Critical   Reaction,    1830-70, 
Chicago,   1937 

6.  Symbolism: 

Barre,  Andre,  Le  Symbolisme,  Paris,   191 1 

Martino,  Pierre,  Parnasse  et  symbolisme:  1850-1900,  Paris,  1925,  pp. 
150-55 

III.    DISCUSSIONS    OF    DEVELOPMENT    IN    LITERATURE    AND    HISTORY 

Abercrombie,  Lascelles,  Progress  in  Literature,  London,  1929 
Brunetiere,  Ferdinand,  V Evolution  des  genres  dans  Phistoire  de  la  littera- 

ture,  Paris,   1890 
Cazamian,  Louis,  UEvolution  fsychologique  de  la  litterature  en  Angle- 

terre,  Paris,  1920 
Croce,  Benedetto,  "Categorismo  e  psicologismo  nella  storia  della  poesia," 

Ultimi  Saggi,  Bari,  1935,  pp.  373-79 
,  "La  Riforma  della  Storia  artistica  e  letteraria,"  Nuovi  Saggi  di 

Estetica,  second  ed.,  Bari,  1927,  pp.  157-80 
Curtius,  Ernst  Robert,  Ferdinand  Brunetiere,  Strassburg,  1914 
Driesch,  Hans,  Logische  Studien  ilber  Entzvicklung,  Sitzungsberichte  der 

Heidelberger  Akademie,  Philosophisch-historische  Klasse,  1 91 8,  No.  3 
Kantorowicz,  Hermann,  "Grundbegriffe  der  Literaturgeschichte,"  Logos, 

XVIII    (1929),   pp.    102-21 


Bibliografhy  383 

Kautzsch,  Rudolf,  Der  Begrijf  der  Entwicklung  in  der  Kunstgeschichte, 
Frankfurter  Universitatsreden,  No.  7,  Frankfurt,   191 7 

Manly,  John  Mathews,  "Literary  Forms  and  the  New  Theory  of  the 
Origin  of  Species,"  Modern  Philology,  IV  (1907),  pp.  577-95 

Mannheim,  Karl,  "Historismus,"  Archiv  fur  Sozialwissenschaft  und  Sozial- 
politik,  LI  I  (1925),  pp.  1-60 

Meinecke,  Friedrich,  "Kausalitaten  und  Werte  in  der  Geschichte,"  His- 
torische  Zeitschrift,  CXXXVII  (1918),  pp.  1-27 

Payne,  W.  M.,  "American  Literary  Criticism  and  the  Doctrine  of  Evolu- 
tion," International  Monthly,  II   (1900),  pp.  26-46,   127-53 

Rickert,  Heinrich,  Die  Grenzen  der  naturzvissenschajtlichen  Begriffs- 
bildung,  Tubingen,  1902  (fifth  ed.,  1929) 

,  Kulturzvissenschajt  und  Naturzvissenschaft,  Tubingen,    1921 

Riezler,  Kurt,  "Uber  den  Begriff  der  historischen  Entwicklung,"  Deutsche 
Vierteljahrschrift  fur  Literaturzvissenschaft  und  Geistes  geschichte,  IV 
(1926),  pp.  193-225 

Symonds,  John  Addington,  "On  the  Application  of  Evolutionary  Princi- 
ples to  Art  and  Literature,"  Essays  Speculative  and  Suggestive,  Lon- 
don, 1890,  Vol.  I,  pp.  42-84 

Troeltsch,  Ernst,  Der  Historismus  und  seine  Probleme,  Tubingen,    1922 

CHAPTER    xx 

The  Study  of  Literature  in  the  Graduate  School 

I.   SOME   DISCUSSIONS  OF  THE   HISTORY  OF  LITERARY  STUDIES 

Gayley,  Charles  Mills,  "The  Development  of  Literary  Studies  During  the 
Nineteenth  Century,"  Congress  of  Arts  and  Science:  Universal  Ex- 
position: St.  Louis,  1904,  Vol.  Ill,  Boston,  1906,  pp.  323-53 

Klemperer,  Viktor,  "Die  Entwicklung  der  Neuphilologie,"  Romanische 
Sonderart,  Munich,  1926,  pp.  388-99 

Lempicki,  Sigmund  von,  Geschichte  der  deutschen  Literaturzvissenschaft, 
Gottingen,  1920 

Mann,  Maurycy,  "Rozwoj  syntezy  literackiej  od  jej  poczatkow  do  Ger- 
vinusa."  Rozprazvy  Akademii  Umiej§tno'sci,  Serja  III,  Tom  III,  Cra- 
cow, 191 1,  pp.  230-360  (a  history  of  literary  historiography  from 
antiquity  to  Gervinus) 

O'Leary,  Gerard,  English  Literary  History  and  Bibliography,  London, 
1928 

Rothacker,  Erich,  Einleitung  in  die  Geistestvissenschaften,  Tubingen,  1920 
(second  ed.,  1930,  contains  sketch  of  the  history  of  German  literary 
history  in  the  nineteenth  century) 


384  Bibliography 

Unger,  Rudolf,  "Vom  Werden  und  Wesen  der  neueren  deutschen  Lit- 
eraturwissenschaft,"  Aufs'dtze  zur  Prinzifienlehre  der  Liter aturge- 
schichte,  Berlin,  1929,  Vol.  I,  pp.  33-48 

Wellek,  Rene,  The  Rise  of  English  Literary  History,  Chapel  Hill,  1 941 
(A  history  of  English  literary  historiography  up  to  Warton  [1774]) 

II.   DISCUSSIONS   OF   PRESENT  STATE   OF   LITERARY  SCHOLARSHIP 

i.  General: 

Richter,  Werner,  "Stromungen  und  Stimmungen  in  den  Literaturwissen- 
schaften  von  heute,"  Germanic  Review,  XXI  (1946),  pp.  81-113 

Van  Tieghem,  Phillipe,  Te?idances  nouvelles  en  histoire  litter  aire,  Paris, 
1930  (Etudes  franchises,  No.  22) 

Wellek,  Rene,  "The  Revolt  against  Positivism  in  Recent  European  Lit- 
erary Scholarship,"  Twentieth  Century  English  (ed.  William  S. 
Knickerbocker),  New  York,  1946,  pp.  67-89 

2.  Some  English  Discussions: 

Knights,  L.  C,  "The  University  Teaching  of  English  and  History:  a  Plea 
for  Correlation,"  Explorations,  London,  1946,  pp.  186-99 

Leavis,  F.  R.,  Education  and  the  University,  London,  1944 

,  "The  Literary  Discipline  and  Liberal  Education,"  Sewanee  Re- 
view, LV  (1947),  pp.  586-609 

Lee,  Sir  Sidney,  "The  Place  of  English  Literature  in  the  Modern  Uni- 
versity," Elizabethafi  and  Other  Essays,  Oxford,  1 929  (this  particular 
essay  dates  from  191 1),  pp.  1-19 

McKerrow,  Ronald  B.,  A  Note  on  the  Teaching  of  English  Language  and 
Literature,  English  Association  Pamphlet  No.  49,  London,  1921 

Potter,   Stephen,   The  Muse  in   Chains:  A   Study   in  Education,   London, 

1937 
Sutherland,  James,  English  in  the  Universities,  Cambridge,  1945 

3.  Some  German  Discussions: 

Benda,  Oskar,  Der  gegenw'drtige  Stand  der  deutschen  Literaturwissenschaft , 

Vienna,   1928 
Mahrholz,  Werner,  Liter aturgeschichte  und  Literaturwissenschaft,  Berlin, 

1923   (second  ed.,  1932) 
Merker,  Paul,  Neue  Aufgaben  der  deutschen  Literaturgeschichte,  Leipzig, 

1921 
Oppel,  Horst,  Die  Literaturwissenschaf  t  in  der  Gegenwart,  Stuttgart,  1939 
Rossner,  H.,  Georgekreis  und  Literaturzvissenschaft,  Frankfurt,    1938 


Btblio  grafthy  385 

Schultz,  Franz,  Das  Schicksal  der  deutschen  Literaturgeschichte,  Frank- 
furt a.  M.,  1929 

Vietor,  Karl,  "Deutsche  Literaturgeschichte  als  Geistesgeschichte:  ein  Rflck- 
blick,"  PMLA,  LX  (1945),  pp.  899-916 

4.  Information  on  Russian  Formalism: 

Gourfinkel,  Nina,  "Les  nouvelles  methodes  d'histoire  litteraire  en  Russie," 

Le  Monde-  Slave,  VI  (1929),  pp.  234-63 
Kridl,  Manfred,  "Russian  Formalism,"  The  American  Bookman,  I  (1944), 

pp.  19-30 
Tomashevsky,  Boris,  "La  nouvelle  ecole  d'histoire  litteraire  en  Russie," 

Revue  des  etudes  slaves,  VIII  (1928),  pp.  226-40 
Van   Tieghem,   Phillipe,   and   Gourfinkel,   Nina,    "Quelques   produits   du 

formalisme  russe,"  Revue  de  litterature  comparee,  XII   (1932),  pp. 

425-34 
Voznesensky,  A.,  "Die  Methodologie  der  russischen  Literaturforschung  in 

den  Jahren  1910-25,"  Zeitschrift  fur  slavische  Philologie,  IV  (1927), 

pp.  145-62,  and  V  (1928),  pp.  175-99 
,  "Problems  of  Method   in   the   Study  of   Literature    in   Russia," 

Slavonic  Review,  VI  (1927),  pp.  168-77 
Zhirmunsky,    Viktor,    "Formprobleme    in    der    russischen    Literaturwissen- 

schaft,"  Zeitschrift  fur  slavische  Philologie,  I  (1925),  pp.  117-52 

III.   AMERICAN   DISCUSSIONS   ON    SITUATION   OF   LITERARY   SCHOLARSHIP 

Babbitt,  Irving,  Literature  and  the  American  College,  Boston,   1908 
Brown,  E.  K.,  "English  Studies  in  the  Postwar  World,"  College  English, 

VI  (1945),  pp.  380-91 
Foerster,    Norman,    The   American  Scholar:   A    Study   in   Litterae   lnhu- 

maniores,  Chapel  Hill,  1929 
,  "The    Study    of    Letters,"    Literary    Scholarship:    its    Aims    and 

Methods,  Chapel  Hill,  1941,  pp.  3-32 
Gauss,    Christian,    "More    Humane    Letters,"    PMLA,    LX    (1945),    pp. 

1306-12 
Jones,  Howard  Mumford,  "Literary  Scholarship  and  Contemporary  Criti- 
cism," English  Journal  (College  edition),  XXIII  (1934),  pp.  740-66 
Millett,  Fred  B.,  The  Rebirth  of  Liberal  Education,  New  York,  1 946 
Peyre,  Henri,  Writers  and  Their  Critics,  Ithaca,  1944 
Schutze,  Martin,  Academic  Illusions  in  the  Field  of  Letters  and  the  Arts, 

Chicago,  1933 
,  "Towards    a    Modern    Humanism,"    PMLA,    LI     (1936),    pp. 

284-99 


386  Bibliography 

Sherman,  Stuart  P.,  "Professor  Kittredge  and  the  Teaching  of  English," 

Nation,  XCVII  (191  3),  pp.  227-30  (reprinted  in  Shaping  Men  and 

Women,  Garden  City,  1928,  pp.  65-86) 
Shore}',  Paul,  "American  Scholarship,"  Nation,  XCII   (191 1 ),  pp.  466-69 

(reprinted  in  Fifty    Years  of  American  Idealism,  Boston,    191 5,  pp. 

401-13) 
Spitzer,  Leo,  "A  New  Program  for  the  Teaching  of  Literary  History," 

American  Journal  of  Philology,  LXIII  (1942),  pp.  308-19 
,  "Deutsche    Literaturforschung    in    Amerika,"    Monatshefte    fur 

deutschen  Unterricht,  XXXVIII  (1946),  pp.  475-80 
Tate,  Allen,   "Miss  Emily   and   the   Bibliographer,"   Reason  in  Madness, 

New  York,   1 941,  pp.   100-16 
White,  Frederick  R.,  "Historical   Studies  and  the  Humanities,"   College 

English,  II  (1941),  pp.  568-83 

IV.   DISCUSSIONS  OF   GRADUATE   STUDY  OF   LITERATURE   IN   AMERICA 

Baker,  Harry  T.,  "English  and  the  Ph.D.,"  Educational  Review,  LIX 
(1925),  pp.   147-49 

Baugh,  Albert  C,  "Graduate  Work  in  English,"  English  Journal  (Col- 
lege edition),  XVIII  (1929),  pp.  135-46 

Bernbaum,  Ernest,  "Graduate  Study  in  English  Literature,"  English  Jour- 
nal (College  edition),  XVII   (1928),  pp.  33-43 

Blackmur,  R.  P.,  "A  Featherbed  for  Critics,"  The  Expense  of  Greatness, 
New  York,   1 940,  pp.  277-305 

Brooks,  Clean th;  Mizener,  Arthur;  Cox,  Sidney;  Saunders,  Hade;  Tril- 
ling, Lionel,  "Literature  and  the  Professors:  A  Symposium,"  Kenyon 
Review,  II   (1940),  pp.  403-42 

Campbell,   Oscar  James,   The   Teaching  of  College  English,   New  York, 

1934 

Crane,  Ronad  S.,  "History  versus  Criticism  in  the  University  Study  of 
Literature,"  English  Journal  (College  edition),  XXIV  (1935),  pp. 
645-67 

Foerster,  Norman,  "The  Teacher  of  Great  Literature,"  Journal  of  Gen- 
eral Education,  I  (1947),  pp.   1 07- 1 3 

Heilman,  Robert  B.,  "Footnotes  on  Literary  History,"  Southern  Review, 
VI  (i94i),pp.  759-70 

Jones,  Howard  Mumford,  "Graduate  English  Study:  Its  Rational,"  Se- 
wanee  Review,  XXXVIII  (1930),  pp.  464-76,  and  XXXIX  (1931), 
pp.  68-79,  200-06 

Ransom,  John  Crowe,  "Criticism,  Inc.,"  Virginia  Quarterly  Review,  XIII 
(I937)>  PP-  586-602  (reprinted  in  The  Worlds  Body,  New  York, 
1938,  pp.  327-50) 


Biblio  grafhy  387 

Ransom,  John  Crowe;  Tate,  Allen;  Horrell,  Joe;  Thomas,  Wright;  Levin, 
Harry,  "Literature  and  the  Professors:  A  Symposium,"  Southern  Re- 
view, VI  (1940),  pp.  225-69 

Spencer,  Theodore,  "An  Ideal  for  Graduate  Education  in  English  Litera- 
ture," English  Journal  (College  edition),  XXVII  (1938),  pp.  33-43 

Tuve,  Rosemond,  "More  Battle  Than  Books,"  Sezvanee  Review,  LV 
(1947),  pp.  571-85 


Ind 


ex 


Aarne,  Antti,  336 
Abbott,  Charles  D.,  312 
Abbott,  Claude  C,  305 
Abercrombie,  Lascelles,  342 
Addison,  Joseph,  97,  99,   199,  259 
Adler,  Alfred,  310 
Adler,  Mortimer,  21,   301,  315 
Adoratskij,  V.,  316 
Aeschylus,   19,  93,   105,   195,  317 
Agrippa,  Cornelius,  211,  331 
Aiken,  Conrad,  87 
Ainslie,  Douglas,  321,  337 
Allen,  Charles,  314 
Allen,  R.  J.,  314 
Alonso,  Amado,  186 
Alonso,  Damaso,    186 
American  Literary  Scholarship,  287  ff. 
American  Literature,  44 
Amiel,  Henri  Frederic,   229 
Ampere,  J.-J.,  38 
Annotation,  56  ff. 
Apelles,  128 

Apollinaire,  Guillaume,  143 
Appreciation,  3,  8,  139 
Aretino,  Pietro,   94 
Ariosto,  Ludovico,  125 
Aristotle,    7,    22,    27,    30,    195,    201, 
219,  236,  238,  240,  243,  297,  332, 

339. 
Arnheim,  Rudolph,  312 
Arnold,    Matthew,    22,    38,    57,    71, 

182,   197,  219,   309,  328 
Aron,  Raymond,   299 
Art  for  Art's  Sake,  19,  97 
Association,   84,  87 
Auden,   W.   H.,   77,    242,   246,    310, 

3" 

Audiat,  Pierre,   323 
Audience,  Study  of,  94 
Auerbach,  Erich,  317 
Augustine,  St.,  27,  302 
Austen,  Jane,   55,   79,   99,   223,   229, 
336 


Authenticity,  60 
Authorship,  54,  55,  185 

Babbitt,  Irving,  125,  338,  340 

Bacon,  Francis,  207,  209 

Baker,  Howard,  331 

Baker,  J.  E.,  342 

Baldensperger,  Fernand,  40,  303,  315 

Bale,  John,  68,  273 

Bally,  Charles,  181,  328,  332 

Balzac,   Honore   de,    15,    16,   23,   80, 

8l>    93)    99)    H4>    H5)    "o,    225, 

227,  229,  257,  319,  336,   337 
Barante,  Prosper  de,  94,  314 
Barat,  Emile,   189 
Barbusse,  Henri,  187,  329 
Barkas,  Pallister,    168,   326 
Barnes,  Dunya,  222 
Barnes,  Elinor  J.,  346 
Barnes,  H.  E.,  316 
Baroque,    118,    131,    132,    143,    149, 

188,  203  ff.,  280 
Barrie,  James,  339 
Bartas,     du;     Guillaume    de    Sallust, 

Sieur,  205 
Barzun,  Jacques,  342 
Bassano,  Jacopo,   134 
Bate,  Walter  Jackson,   160,  309,  324 
Bateson,   F.   W.,   31,    177,    178,    302, 

327 
Baudelaire,  Charles,  40,  56,  79,  203, 

293,  312 
Baudoin,  Charles,   330 
Baynes,  H.  G.,   311 
Beach,  Joseph  Warren,  323,  337 
Beaumont,  Francis,  31,  60,  216,  308 
Becker,  F.  B.,  316 
Becker,  Howard,  316 
Becking,  Gustav,  325 
Bede,  Jean- Albert,  78 
Bedier,  Joseph,  52 
Beethoven,  Ludwig  van,   115 
Belgion,  Montgomery,  26,  27 


*  The  index  includes  the  Notes,  but  not  the  Bibliographies. 


39° 


Index 


Bennett,  Arnold,  99 

Bentley,   Eric,    300 

Bentley,  Gerald  E.,   308 

Benussi,  Vittorio,   326 

Berdayev,  Nikolai,  in,  318 

Berend,  E.,  336 

Bergson,  Henri,   n,   187 

Berkeley,  George,   10,   no,  197 

Berkelman,  R.  G.,  312 

Berlioz,  Hector,   115 

Bernays,  Michael,  307 

Bernini,  Giovanni,   149 

Bethell,   S.   L.,   300 

Bibliography,   50,  51 

Biography,    67  ff. 

Biography,  History  of  Literary,  68 

Biological  Analogies,  4,   246,   267  ff. 

Birkhead,  Edith,  339 

Birkhoff,  G.  D.,   130,    160,   321,   324 

Blackmur,  R.  P.,  30 

Blagoy,  D.,  313 

Blair,  Hugh,  239,  240,  338 

Blake,   William,    16,    116,    128,    178, 

194,  212,  256,   260,  330,  331 
Bloch,  Joseph,   316 
Blok,  Alexander,   246 
Blunden,   Edmund,    314 
Boas,  F.  S.,  305 
Boas,  George,  21,  107,  253,  301,  317, 

342 
Boccaccio,  Giovanni,  230 
Bodkin,  Maud,  311 
Boehme,  Jakob,   116,   331 
Boekh,  Philip  August,  29,  302 
Bogatyrev,  Pyotr,    304 
Boileau,     Nicolas     (de     Despreaux), 

239,  240 
Bonald,    Louis    G.    A.,    Vicomte    de, 

9°;  3i3 
Bontoux,  Germaine,  320 
Boothby,  Hill,  319 
Boring,  E.  G.,   330 
Bosanquet,  Bernard,  254,  255,  342 
Bosanquet,  Theodora,  312 
Bossuet,  Jacques-Benigne,    16 
Boswell,  James,  50,  68,  305 
Boucher,  Francois,   124 
Bouterwek,  Friedrich,  41,  42,  304 
Bowling,  Lawrence,   313,   337 
Bowman,  A.  A.,  295 
Bradby,  Anne,   335 


Bradley,  A.  C,  28,  302 

Bradley,  Scully,  306 

Brandes,  Georg,   70,   71,   309 

Brecht,  Berthold,   246 

Bremond,  Abbe   Henri,   113 

Breughel,  Pieter,  the  Elder,  129,  321 

Bridges,  Robert,   121 

Bright,  Timothy,  23 

Brik,  Osip,    161,  324 

Bronte,  Charlotte,  72,   102 

Bronte,  Emily,   72,   193,  309,  310 

Bronte,  Patrick,   73 

Brooks,   Cleanth,  Jr.,   260,   331,   333, 

342 
Brooks,  Van  Wyck,   69 
Brown,  John,   281 
Brown,  Stephen  J.,  332 
Browne,  Sir  Thomas,   118,   165,   167, 

207,  209 
Browning,    Robert,     107,     no,     160, 

162,   170 
Bruegel,  Pierre   (see  also,  Breughel), 

321 
Briiggemann,  Fritz,  3  1  7 
Briihl,  Count  Hans  Moritz  von,   319 
Brunetiere,  Ferdinand,  246,  267,  268, 

273,   299>   340 
Bruno,  Giordano,    no,   112 
Bryusov,  Valery,  324 
Bucher,  Karl,   105,  317 
Buhler,  Karl,   200,   332 
Bunyan,  John,  225,  227 
Burckhardt,  Jakob,   134,  322 
Burgum,  Edwin  B.,  105,  317 
Burke,   Edmund,    10,    167,    197,    207, 

209 
Burke,    Kenneth,    21,    30,    301,    310, 

3i7,  335 
Burnet,  John,   307 
Burney,   Charles,   265 
Burney,  Fanny,  223 
Burns,  Robert,   91,  206 
Burton,  Robert,  270 
Butler,  Joseph,   10 
Butler,  Samuel,   no 
Butler-Bowden,  W.,  305 
Byely,  Andrey,   167 
Byrne,  Muriel  St.  Clare,  306 
Byron,     George     Gordon,    Lord,     70, 

71;  74;  75;  94;  162,  216,  242,  256, 

259,   272,   277,   315,   339 


Index 


391 


Cadence  of  Prose,  166 
Cailliet,  Emile,  78,  311,  334 
Campbell,  George,  201,  204,  332 
Campbell,  Lewis,  58 
Campbell,  Lily,  86,  303,  313,  314 
Campbell,   Oscar  J.,    87,    303,    313 
Campion,  Thomas,   320,   327 
Carlyle,    Thomas,    40,    69,    91,    184, 

276 
Carpenter,  Edward,  69 
Carpenter,  F.  I.,  336 
Carroll,  Lewis,  187 
Carter,  John,  61,  309 
Cassagne,  A.,   314 
Cassirer,   Ernst,    119,   320,    331 
Catachresis,  204 
Cather,  Willa,   221 
Catharsis,   27 

Caudwell,  Christopher,  105,  317 
Causal  Explanation,  4,  5,  62,  102 
Cazamian,    Louis,    6,    264,    280,    293, 

299,    322,    328,   344 
Celtes,  Conrad,  61 

Cervantes,   Miguel   de   Saavedra,   225 
Chad  wick,  H.  M.,  281,  345 
Chadwick,  Norah  K.,   281,   312,   345 
Chalmers,  George,  61,  308 
Chambers,  Edmund  K.,  307,  308 
Chambers,  F.  P.,  342 
Chambers,  R.  W.,   306,  307 
Chandler,  Albert  R.,  312 
Chapman,  George,  333 
Chapman,  R.  W.,  307 
Characterization,   16,  226 
Charteris,  Leslie,  343 
Chase,  Richard,  311 
Chateaubriand,       Francois-Rene       de, 

125 
Chatterton,  Thomas,  61,  62,  308 
Chaucer,  Geoffrey,  34,  37,  51,  58,  59, 

68,   99,    175)    185,    230,   259,   290, 

306 
Chekhov,    Anton,    91,    99,    224,    243, 

247 
Chenier,  Andre,  340 
Cherniss,  Harold,  303 
Chesterfield,     Lord     (Philip     Dormer 

Stanhope),  94 
Child,  Francis,   53 
Chronology,  57  ff. 
Church,  Margaret,  323 


Churchill,  Charles,  259 

Cicero,    16,    182 

Clark,  David  Lee,  344 

Clarke,  Edwin  L.,  313 

Classicism,    127,    133,   203,   239,    240 

Claude  Lorrain,   124 

Claudel,  Paul,    167 

Clemen,    Wolfgang,    217,    271,    333, 

334)    335,    344 
Clemons,   Harry,   328 
Cohen,  Morris  R.,   313 
Coleridge,  Ernest  Hartley,   309 
Coleridge,    Samuel    Taylor,    67,    79, 

81,    84,    97,    no,    133,    190,    193, 

J95>  237,  252>  259,  277,  280,  309, 

330 
Collaboration,   31,   60 
Collingwood,    R.    G.,    35,    300,    301, 

302,   303 
Collins,  Wilkie,   224 
Collins,  William,   125,  256,  272 
Colvin,  Sir  Sidney,   320 
Comparison,  5 
Comprehension,  5 
Congreve,  William,  315 
Conrad,  Joseph,  221,  233 
Content,  17,  140 
Comparative  Literature,   38  ff. 
Contemporary    Literature,    the    Study 

of,   3  5 
Cooper,  James  F.,  83 
Coquelin,   Constant,  339 
Corneille,  Pierre,  133 
Cournot,  A.  A.,  279 
Courthope,  William  J.,  263,  343 
Cowley,  Abraham,  258 
Craig,  Hardin,   32,   302,   344 
Crane,  Ronald  S.,  308,  344 
Crashaw,   Richard,    331 
Creative  Criticism,  3 
Creative  Process,  80 
Criticism,      see      Literary      Criticism, 

Evaluation 
Croce,    Benedetto,    6,    80,    122,    130, 

188,  235,  255,  272,  299,  300,  304, 

313,  316,  320,  321,  337,  344 
Croll,  Morris  W.,  325,  326,  328,  329 
cummings,  e.  e.,  143 
Cusanus,  Nicolaus,   129 
Cuvier,  Georges,  Baron,   38 
Cysarz,   Herbert,    117,    119,   320 


392 


Index 


Dahlke,  H.  Otto,  316 

Dallas,  E.  S.,  237,  338 

Daniel,  Samuel,  208 

Dante,  16,  25,  34,  73,  80,  107,  111, 

112,  182,  192,  207,  255,  256,  301, 

320,  328,  330,  331 
Dauzat,  A.,  327 
Davenant,  Sir  William,  237 
Davidson,  Angus,  319 
Davidson,   Donald,   331 
Davies,  Cicely,   321 
Dawson,  Giles,  307 
Defoe,  Daniel,  60,   220,  229 
De   Gre,  Gerard   L.,   316 
Dekker,  Thomas,  6 
Delacroix,  Henri,  313 
Deloney,  Thomas,  99 
Denham,  John,  240,  258 
Dennis,  John,   197 
Democritus,    115 

De  Quincey,  Thomas,  81,  165,  167 
Dessoir,  Max,   295 
Destutt,  Antoine,  de  Tracy,   87 
Deutschbein,    Max,    117,    183,    320 
Development  of  Literature,   266;   see 

also  Biological  Analogies 
Dewey,  John,  130,  321 
Dibelius,    Wilhelm,    225,    226,    312, 

336,   337 
Dickens,  Charles,  77,  80,  84,  97,  99, 

166,  221,  224,  225,  226,  227,  228, 

230,  232,  245,  257,  312,  315,  335, 
_33_6,  337 
Dickinson,  Emily,  212,   334 
Diderot,  Denis,  76,  308 
Dilthey,    Wilhelm,    5,    80,    115,    187, 

286,  299,  309,  312,  319 
Dion,  A.,  332 
Dodge,  N.  E.,  344 
Donne,  John,  32,  68,   no,  207,  208, 

209,  213,  214,  258,  259,  333,  343 
Donohue,  James  J.,  338 
Dostoevsky,  Fyodor,    16,   23,    76,    79, 

80,    85,    91,    111,    121,    122,    225, 

245,  246,  310,  318 
Dowden,  Edward,  68,  69,  70 
Downey,  June,   330 
Drake,  Nathan,  68 
Dreiser,  Theodore,  83,  159 
Dryden,  John,   31,   40,   51,    68,    no, 

204,  240,  259,  269,  303,  306,  332, 

342 


Dujardin,    Edouard,    233,    337 
Dumas,  Alexander,   97 
Duns   Scotus,    no 
Duval,  Alexandre,  304 

Eastman,  Max,   24,   301,   314,  329 
Economics  of  Literature,   90  ff. 
Editing,   51  ff. 
Egan,  Rose  F.,  314 
Ehrenpreis,   Irvin,   338 
Eichendorff,  Josef   von,    119 
Eikhenbaum,    Boris,    176,    323,    326, 

_327_ 

Einstein,  Albert,  323 

Eliot,  George,   no,  121,  336 

Eliot,  Thomas  Stearns,  21,  22,  25, 
26,  27,  71,  78,  79,  80,  82,  107, 
112,  192,  205,  216,  242,  246,  251, 
252,  254,  257,  258,  260,  262,  265, 
289,  292,  301,  302,  309,  311,  317, 
33o,  33i>  335,  34-1,  342,  343,  344 

Elizabeth,  Queen,  57,  275 

Elizabethan   Plays,   53,   55 

Elledge,  Scott,   300 

Ellis,   Havelock,   313 

Ellis-Fermor,   Una,   321 

Elton,  Oliver,  264,  325,  343,  344 

Emendation,  52  ff. 

Emerson,  Ralph  W.,  16,  28,  29,  109, 
167,  195,  223 

Empedocles,    112 

Empson,   William,    236,    322 

Engels,   Friedrich,   316 

English  Literary  Scholarship,  284, 
285 

Engstrom,  A.  G.,   311 

Eppelsheimer,  H.  W.,   320 

Erhardt-Siebold,  Erika  von,  3  1 1 

Ermatinger,  Emil,   305,   321 

Erskine,  John,   237,   338,   339 

Etiemble,  Rene,   324 

Euripides,  34,  93 

Evaluation,    248  ff. 

Everett,  Edwin  M.,  314 

Evolution,  see  Development 

Ewer,  M.  A.,  333 

Faguet,  Emile,   336 
Fairchild,  Hoxie  N.,  113,  319 
Farrell,  James  T.,   99 
Farquhar,  George,  315 
Faulkner,  William,   87,   98,   226 


Index 


393 


Fenollosa,  Ernest,   143,  323 

Fergusson,  Francis,  337 

Fernandez,  Ramon,  72,  233,  309,  337 

Feuerbach,  Ludwig,   110 

Feuillerat,  Albert,    86,    312 

Fichte,    Johann    Gottlieb,    in,    115, 

\l9 

Ficino,  Marsilio,   112 

Fictionality,    16,   220  ff. 

Fiedler,  Konrad,   16,   132 

Fielding,  Henry,  99,   227,   229,   230, 

246 
Firth,  Sir  Charles,  314 
Fischer,  Ottokar,   310 
Flaubert,  Gustave,   82,   85,   224,   232, 

312,  337 
Fleay,  Frederick  Gard,  307 
Fletcher,  John,   31,   60,   216,   308 
Foerster,  Norman,  289,  303,  341,  346 
Follett,  Wilson,  220,  335 
Folklore,  38 
Forest,  L.  C.  T.,  313 
Forgeries,   60 
Form    and    Content,     18,     140,     154, 

198,  252,  256 
Forman,  Buxton  H.,  309,  312 
Forster,    Edward    Morgan,    33,    301, 

336 
Forster,  John,  336 
Fraenkel,  Eduard,   327 
Frank,  Joseph,  222,  333,  335 
Frank,  Waldo,  87,  314 
Franz,  Wilhelm,   180,  327 
Fraser,  G.  M.,  308 
Freeman,   Joseph,    314 
French  Literary  Scholarship,   286 
Freud,    Sigmund,    76,    77,    104,    no, 

198,  310 
Friedman,  Arthur,  307 
Frischeisen-Kohler,  Max,   319 
Fromm,  Erich,  77,  310 
Frost,  Robert,    194,   195,   331 
Froude,  James  Anthony,  69 
Function  of  Literature,   19  ff.,   249  f. 
Furnivall,  Frederick  J.,  307 

Galton,  Francis,   191 

Gaskell,  Elizabeth  Cleghorn,    102 

Galsworthy,  John,   99 

Garrick,  David,  57 

Gauss,   Christian,   346 

Gautier,    Theophile,    124,    125 


Gay,  John,   339 
Gelder,  R.  van,   312 
Gellert,     Johann     Furchtegott,      114, 
319 

Geistesgeschichte,  66,  117  ff. 

General  (The,  vs.  the  Particular),  8, 

15 

General  Literature,  27  ff.,  41 

Generation,  286 

Genesis,  86 

Genetic  Method,  4;  see  Causal  Expla- 
nation 

Genetics,  245 

Genius,   75  ff. 

Genre,   185,  235  ff.,  286 

George,  Stefan,  212 

German    Literary   Scholarship,    285 

Germanic   Literatures,  42 

Gershenzon,  M.  O.,  318 

Gesemann,  Gerhard,  303 

Gibbon,  Edward,   10,   167 

Gibbons,   Thomas,    204,    332 

Gide,  Andre,  231 

Gilby,  Thomas,  22 

Gilson,  Etienne,  in,  318 

Gissing,  George,  223 

Glockner,  Hermann,   112,   318 

Godwin,  William,  68,  no,  112,  224, 
225,   335 

Goethe,  Johann  Wolfgang  von,  27, 
41,  55>  60,  70,  71,  73,  76,  79,  80, 
82,  85,  94,  97,  in,  112,  115,  116, 
122,  127,  133,  178,  185,  186,  230, 

293>  3°2>  304,  3°7>  3°9>  3H|  3*2> 
320,  328,  330,  338 
Gogol,    Nikolai,    92,    149,    167,    227, 

23I)  249)  336 
Goldsmith,  Oliver,  44,  60,  308 
Goncharov,  Alexander,  91 
Gongora,  Luis  de,  186,  329 
Gordon,  E.  H.,  336 
Gordon,  George,  285 
Gosse,  Edmund,  263,  309,  343 
Gourfinkel,  Nina,  322 
Gourmont,  Remy  de,  261,   343 
Government   (Influence  of,  on  Liter- 
ature), 96 
Grabo,  Carl,  336 
Graham,  Walter,   314 
Grammont,  Maurice,  164,  324 
Granville-Barker,  Harley,  291 
Graphic  Devices  (in  Literature),  143 


394  Index 

Grattan,  J.  H.,  306 

Gray,  Thomas,  110,  199,  241 

Great  Books,    10 

Greatness,  255 

Green,  F.  C,  38,  303 

Greene,  Robert,  59,    185 

Greene,   Theodore    Meyer,    130,    251, 

255.    321)     34_I)     342 

Greenlaw,  Edwin,  9,  29,  300 

Greg-,  W.  W.,  51,  52,  54,  285,  306, 

307,  345 
Gregoire,    Henri,    309 
Grib,  V.,   103 
Grierson,  H.  J.  C,   291 
Griffith,  R.  H.,  51,  306 
Grigson,  Geoffrey,   311 
Groot,  Albert  de,  325 
Griinwald,  Ernst,  316 
Gryphius,  Andreas,  258 
Guastalla,  R.  M.,  331 
Guer,  Guerlin  de,   327 
Gumbel,  Hermann,  305 
Gundolf,  Friedrich,    186,   309,   328 
Gurvitch,  Georges,  316 

Hall,  Vernon,  340 

Hallam,   Henry,    10,   41,   304 

Hals,   Frans,    115,    131 

Hammond,  James,   241 

Handel,  Frederick,  143 

Hankins,  Thomas,   238 

Haraszti,    Zoltan,    308 

Harbage,  Alfred  A.,  314 

Harding-,   M.   Esther,    311 

Hardy,  Thomas,    110,   221,  224,   230 

Harris,   Frank,    70,    309 

Harrison,  J.  E.,  3  17 

Harsdorfer,  Georg  Philipp,    163,   324 

Hartley,  David,    no 

Hartmann,  Eduard  von,  16 

Harvey,  Gabriel,   175 

Haselden,  R.  B.,   306 

Haseltine,  J.,  306 

Hastings,  James,  324 

Hatzfeld,   Helmut,   312 

Havens,  Raymond  D.,  269,  344 

Hawes,  Stephen,   175 

Hawthorne,     Nathaniel,      223,      224, 

225,   227,   228,   335,   336 
Hazard,  Paul,    in,   318 
Hazlitt,  William,   70 
Hebbel,  Friedrich,    1 1 1 


Hecht,  Hans,  326 

Hegel,     Georg-     Wilhelm     Friedrich, 

16,    20,    101,    108,    hi,    115,    116, 

3i8 
Heine,  Heinrich,  127,  310 
Hemingway,     Ernest,     82,     98,     232, 

238,  312 
Hennequin,  Emile,  315 
Henry,   O.,   243 
Heraclitus,    115 

Herbart,  Johann   Friedrich,    132 
Herbert,  George,  68,   143 
Herder,  Johann  Gottfried,  319 
Heredia,  Jose-Maria  de,   125 
Hesiod,    1 9 

Heusler,   Andreas,    304 
Heyl,  Bernard  C,  301,  343 
Heywood,  Thomas,  6 
Hildebrand,  Adolf  von,  16,  132,  300 
Hinneberg,  Paul,   319 
Historicism,  22 
History,  5 

History   of    Civilization,    9,    10 
History  of   Ideas,    108  ff. 
History  of  Sensibility,   113 
Hobbes,  Thomas,  115,  237,  240,  338 
Hoffman,  Frederick  J.,  310,  313,  314 
Hoffmann,  E.  T.  A.,  80,  119,  230 
Holderlin,  Friedrich,    1 1 1 
Holz,  Arno,    143 
Homer,    16,    20,    34,    94,    144,    163, 

182,  201,  202,  225,  226,  238,  253, 

259)  265,  301,  320,  328,  332 
Hooke,  S.  H.,  331 
Hopf,  H.,  315 
Hopkins,   Gerard    Manley,    no,    160, 

179,   184,  186,  254,  303,  328,  339 
Horace,    20,    21,   93,    237,    248,    271, 

301 
Hornbostel,  E.  M.,  325 
Horney,  Karen,  23,   77,  301,  310 
Hornstein,  Lillian  H.,  215,  334 
Hoskyns,  John,  204,  332 
Hottinger,  M.  D.,   321 
Hotson,  Leslie,   50,   305 
Housman,  A.  E.,  147 
Howard,  W.  G.,  321 
Howells,  William  Dean,  99,  220,  233 
Hroswitha  of  Gandersheim,   61,  308, 

309 
Hughes,  John,  321 
Hugo,  Victor,  124,  204 


Index 


395 


Hulme,  T.  E.,  331,  333 
Humanities,   5 
Hume,  David,   10 
Hunt,  Leigh,  314 
Hurd,  Richard,  321 
Hurdis,  James,  58,  307 
Husserl,  Edmund,   152,   323 
Hussey,  Christopher,   322 
Hustvedt,  Sigurd  B.,  307 
Huxley,  Aldous,  231 
Huxley,  Thomas  Henry,   1 1 
Hyman,  Stanley  E.,  310 

Ibsen,  Henrik,  23,  227,  232,  247,  337 
Ideas    (and    Literature),    107  fL,    257 
Imagery,    16,   21,    1901!. 
Imagination,   16,    17,   79 
Imaginative    Literature,    1 2 
Individuality,  5,  7,  8 
Influences,  31,  231 
Influence    of    Literature    on    Society, 

97  ff. 
Ingarden,  Roman,  152,  157,  323,  341 
Inspiration,  80  ff. 
Institution   (Literature  as  a),  89,   94, 

235_ 
Intention,   33,  34,   127,   149 
Ipsen,  Giinther,  325 
Ireland  Forgeries,  60,   61 
Irvine,  H.  D.,  299 
Irving,  Washington,  230 
Isaacs,  J.,   345 
Ivanov,  Vyacheslav,   in,   318 

Jackson,  T.  A.,  315 

Jacobi,  J.,  311 

Jaensch,  Erich,  77,  310 

Jakobson,    Roman,     175,     237,     304, 

3°9>  324,  325,  326,  327,  332,  338 
James  I,  King  of  Scotland,  94 
James,   Henry,    16,    79,    82,    84,    152, 

184,  194,  221,  224,  227,  229,  232, 

233,   312,   331,   336,  337 
James,  William,  337 
Jarcho,  J.,   345 
Jenkinson,  Hilary,  306 
Jirasek,  Alois,  98 
Jodelle,    Etienne,    247,    268 
Johnson,  F.  R.,  51,  306 
Johnson,   Samuel,    7,   22,   54,   68,   82, 

94,   114,   167,   182,   184,  214,  220, 


240,  254,  271,  305,  312,  319,  325, 

334,  338,   343 
Jolles,  Andre,  246,  340,  344 
Jonson,    Ben,    23,    85,    92,    180,    227, 

228,  245,  272,  321,   338,  343 
Joyce,  James,  44,  no,  167,  225,  236, 

289,   315,   342 
Jung,  Carl  J.,  76,   78,   no,  311 
Jusserand,  Jean  Jacques,  264 
Juvenal,  271 

Kafka,  Franz,  76,  221,  225,  246,  257 

Kainz,  Friedrich,  328 

Kant,    Immanuel,    11,    20,    no,    in, 

^  115,    155,   251 
Kantorowicz,  Hermann,  306 
Karayev,  N.  P.,  42,   304 
Kardiner,  Abram,  77 
Karg,  Fritz,   325 
Kastendieck,  Miles  M.,  320 
Kayser,  Wolfgang,   324 
Keats,  John,    16,  56,   71,   75,  85,   86, 

107,  124,  160,  259,  260,  277,  309, 

312,   320,    324,   339,   344 
Keller,  Gottfried,  220 
Keller,  Wolfgang,  306 
Kellett,  E.  E.,   342 
Kempe,    The  Book  of  Margery,   50, 

305 
Kennedy,  Arthur  G.,  306 
Ker,  W.  P.,  235,  265,  291,  332,  337, 

^  341,  344 

Kern,  Alexander  C,   316 
Kernodle,  George  R.,  321 
Keynes,  John  Maynard,   102,  315 
Killen,  A.,  339 
Kilmer,  Joyce,  7 
King,  A.  H.,  180,  327 
Kingsley,  Charles,    102 
Kingsmill,  Hugh,   71,   309 
Kinsley,  Edith  E.,  309 
Kittredge,  George  Lyman,  292 
Klaeber,  F.,   329 

Kleist,   Heinrich  von,    in,    119,    319 
Klopstock,  Friedrich  Gottlieb,  331 
Kluckhohn,  Paul,    113,   319 
Knickerbocker,  W.  S.,  302 
Knight,    G.   Wilson,    216,    217,    259, 

3  35 
Knights,    L.    C,    92,    286,    300,    314, 

315,   322 
Knowledge,  Literature  as,  22,  250 


396  Index 

Kohler,   Wolfgang,    164,    324. 

Konig,  Goswin,   307 

Korner,  Josef,    187,  328 

Kohn-Bramstedt,  Ernst,    100,   315 

Konnerth,   Hermann,   300 

Konrad,  Hedwig,  201 

Korff,    Hermann    August,    117,    118, 

320 
Krappe,  Alexander  H.,   335,   340 
Kretschmer,  Ernst,   79,   311 
Kridl,  Manfred,  322,   340 
Krikorian,  Yervant  H.,  316 
Kris,  Ernst,  334 
Krutch,  Joseph  Wood,   69 
Kyd,  Thomas,   59,    185,   206 

La  Driere,  Craig  J.,  330,  341 

Lamb,  Charles,   100,   315 

Landor,  Walter  Savage,  125 

Langer,  Susanne  K.,  26,  301,  312 

Langland,  William,  99,  258 

Language    (and    Literature),     177  ff. 

Lanier,  Sidney,   169 

Lanz,   Henry,    161,   324,   326 

Larbaud,  Valery,  287 

Larrabee,  Stephen  A.,  124,  320 

Lavine,  Thelma  Z.,  316 

Lawrence,  W.  J.,  308 

Laws  in  Literature,  6,  8 

Leavis,    Frank    Raymond,    286,    318, 

322,  323,  343 
Leavis,  Q.  D.,  95,  314,  315 
Le  Bossu,  Rene,   20 
Lee,  Rensselaer  W.,  321 
Lee,   Sir  Sidney,    139,   271,   322,   344 
Legouis,  Emile,    134,   293,   299,   320, 

p2>   344 
Leibniz,   Gottfried   W.,    12,    115 
Leland,  John,  68 
Lemercier,  Nepomucene,   304 
Lenin,  288 
Lerner,  Max,   340 

Lessing,  Gotthold  Ephraim,  125,  318 
Levin,  Harry,   314,   338 
Levy,  Hanna,  321 
Lewis,  C.  S.,  80,  113,  150,  273,  312, 

3i9>  3*3,  332>  345 
Lewis,  Sinclair,  99,  230 
Licklider,  Albert  H.,  327 
Liliencron,  Detlev  von,   116 
Lindsay,  Vachel,  197 
Linguistics,   152,   153,   1791!. 


Link,  K.  C,  315 

Literary  Criticism,  30,  35,  90,  248  ff., 

261 
Literary    History,     29,     30,     31,     62, 

263  ff. 
Literary  Language,  12,  13,  1791!. 
Locke,  John,  87,  no,  234 
Longinus,   182,  261 
Lorenzo  Magnifico,   134 
Lovejoy,  Arthur  O.,    108,    109,   117, 

280,  305,  317,  318,  345 
Lowell,  James  R.,   219 
Lowes,  John  Livingston,  84,  312,  344 
Lubbock,  Percy,    152,  232,   323,   337 
Lucka,  Emil,  341 
Lucretius,  27,   115 
Ludwig,  Otto,  232,  310,   312,  337 
Lunacharsky,  Anatoli  V.,  315 
Luther,  Martin,    178 
Lutoslawski,   Wincenty,   58,   307 
Lydgate,  John,   175 
Lyly,  John,   184,  328 
Lynch,  K.  M.,  315 

Macaulay,    Thomas   Babington,    100, 

142,  3i5 
McCarthy,  Desmond,   221,   335 
MacCormick,  W.  S.,  306 
MacDonagh,  Thomas,  327 
Macdonald,  Hugh,  51,  306 
McElderry,  B.  R.,  Jr.,  328 
Machal,  Jan,   281,   305,   345 
Machaut,  Guillaume,  214 
Machen,  Arthur,  197,  331 
Maclnnes,  W.  D.,  299 
Mackenzie,  Compton,  242 
McKenzie,  Gordon,   300,   304,   335 
McKerrow,  Ronald  B.,  54,  306 
MacLeish,  Archibald,  25 
MacNeice,  Louis,  192,  213,  310,  330, 

334 
Macpherson,  James,  308 
Mair,  J.,    308 

Mallarme,    Stephane,    124,    197,    320 
Malone,    Edmond,    59,    61,    68,    307, 

308 
Mandelbaum,    Maurice,    299 
Manly,  John  Matthew,  299,  306 
Mann,  Elizabeth  M.,  344 
Mann,  Thomas,   17,   122 
Mannheim,    Karl,    104,    316 
Manwaring,   Elizabeth  W.,    320 


Index 


397 


Marchand,  Leslie  A.,  314 

Marett,  Robert  R.,  317 

Marks,  Jeanette,  312 

Marlowe,    Christopher,    50,    59,    109, 

185,    206,    305 
Marston,  John,  60,  333 
Marvell,  Andrew,   181,  328 
Marx,   Karl,    77,    102,    288,   316 
Marxist  Criticism,  89,   101,   102,   103 
Masaryk,  Thomas  Garrigue,  61,  309 
Masson,  David,   68 
Matisse,   Henri,   253 
Matthiessen,  Francis  O.,   336 
Maturin,   Charles,   230 
Maupassant,  Guy  de,  232,  337 
Mauthner,    Fritz,    187 
Mayakovsky,  Vladimir,  246 
Mazon,  Andre,   309 
Medicus,  Fritz,  321 
Medwall,  Henry,  50,  305 
Meech,  Sanford  B.,  305 
Mehring,  Franz,  3 1 6 
Meillet,  Antoine,    175,   327 
Meissner,  Paul,    117,    118,   320 
Melville,    Herman,     121,     167,    220, 

225,  227 
Meredith,  George,  57,  170,  184,  221, 

333 
Merezhkovsky,  Dmitri,  in,  318 
Merton,  Robert  K.,  316 
Metaphor,   17,   18,   121,   190  ff. 
Meter  and  Metrics,   164,   166  if.,   178 
Meyer,  Conrad  Ferdinand,  56,  116 
Meyer,  G.  W.,  72,  309 
Meyer,  Theodor  A.,  301 
Meyrinck,  Gustav,   328 
Michelangelo    Buonarroti,    115,    128, 

321 
Middleton,  Thomas,  60,  315 
Miles,  Josephine,  186,  300,  314,  328, 

3  35 
Milton,  John,  36,  68,  70,  79,  80,  81, 
82,  no,  114,  118,  150,  179,  182, 
184,  192,  199,  205,  207,  216,  223, 
235,  236,  240,  255,  256,  257,  259, 
269,  290,  312,  323,  328,  330,  332, 

_342>  344 
Mineka,  Francis  E.,  314 
Mims,  Edwin,  340 
Mirsky,  Dmitri  S.,  200,  332 
Mitchell,   Margaret,    97 
Mizener,  Arthur,  339 


Mode    of    Existence    (of   a   Literary 

Work),    141  ff. 
Morike,  Eduard,    116 
Moliere,  23,  100,  220,  228,  245 
Monglond,  Andre,  114,  315,  319 
Montaigne,  Michel  de,  16,  109,  113, 

34-4 
Montesquieu,   318 
Moore,  Marianne,  220 
Moore,  Thomas,  74 
Moore,  Virginia,  72,  309 
Moore,  Wilbert  E.,  316 
More,  Paul  Elmer,  74 
Morgann,  Maurice,   15 
Morgenstern,     Christian,     187,     328, 

329 
Morize,  Andre,  62,   308 
Morley,  Henry,  263,  343 
Morley,  Lord  John,  68 
Mornet,  Daniel,   287,   346 
Morris,  Bertram,   341 
Morris,  Charles,  330 
Morsbach,  Lorenz,  326 
Motherwell,  William,  53 
Motif   and    Motive,    187,    225,    272, 

335 

Mott,  Frank  L.,  314 
Movements  in  Literature,  274 
Mozart,  Wolfgang  Amadeus,   127 
Miiller,   Curt  Richard,   330 
Miiller,  Giinther,  273,  340,  345 
Miiller,   Wilhelm,    127 
Muir,  Edwin,  300 
Mukarovsky,    Jan,     253,     315,     323, 

327>  34i 
Muller,  Herbert  J.,  310 
Multivalence,    253 
Muncker,  Franz,   329 
Murdock,  Kenneth  B.,   336 
Murry,    John    Middleton,    192,    216, 

330 
Music    (and    Literature),    115,    124, 

162,    169 
Musicality   in   verse,    126,    130,    160, 

169 
Myth,   195  ff. 

Nabokov,  Vladimir,  336 
Nadler,  Josef,  44,  305 
Naming  (of  Characters),  226 
Nashe,  Thomas,    180 
National  Literature,   43 


398  Index 


National  Spirit,   29 

Natural  Science,  5,  6 

Nature  of  Literature,  9  ff. 

Naumann,  Hans,   39,   303 

Needham,   G.  B.,   315,   336 

Neruda,  Pablo,  186 

Nesbitt,  George  L.,   314 

Ness,  Frederick,   324 

Nethercot,  A.  H.,  312 

Neumann,  Carl,  321 

Neumann,  Ernst,   321 

Newton,  Sir  Isaac,    11,    no 

Nicolson,  Marjorie  H.,  317 

Niebuhr,  Reinhold,   196,   331 

Nietzsche,    Friedrich,     79,     104,     109, 

no,   167,  195,  196,  311,  318,  320, 

331 
Nohl,  Hermann,   115,  116,   186,  315, 

t  3i9.   328,   334 
Norden,  Eduard,   325 
Norms,    151,    155,   253 
Novalis  (Friedrich  von  Hardenberg), 

119,    120,    319 
Novel,  The,  2191!. 

Objectivity,  5 

Odin,  S.,   313 

Oliphant,   E.   H.  C,    308 

Oliphant,   Margaret,   242,   277 

Olschki,  Leonardo,  42,  281,  304,  345 

Omond,  T.  S.,  168,  326 

Oral  Literature,    12,  38,   50,   54,   142 

Organism,    18,   61 

Originality,    270 

Ortega  y  Gasset,  Jose,   324 

Osborn,    James    Marshall,    305,    306 

Osborn,  L.  B.,  332 

Ossian,  41,   60,   61,    167,   308 

Overmeyer,   Grace,    314 

Ovid,   93 

Owl  and  the   'Nightingale,    180 

Painting   (and  Literature),    115,    124 
Palmer,  J.,  315 

Panofsky,  Erwin,  124,  305,  320,  321 
Paracelsus  von  Hohenheim,   129,  211, 

331 
Parallelism    of    Literature    and    Arts, 

118,   119,  120,   1 24  ff. 
Parallels,   270 
Pareto,   Wilfredo,    104 
Parrott,  Thomas  Marc,  307 


Parry,  Albert,    314 

Parry,  Milman,  332 

Particular    (The,    vs.   The   General), 

8,  22 
Partington,  Wilfred,   309 
Pascal,  Blaise,  55,  109,  in,  308 
Passarge,   W.,    322 
Pasternak,  Boris,  332,  338 
Pater,  Walter,   3,   184,   253,  264 
Patronage    (Literary),    94 
Patterson,  Warner  F.,    340 
Patterson,  W.  M.,   165,  325 
Pattison,  Bruce,   320 
Pearson,  N.  H.,  337,  338 
Peele,  George,  59,   185 
Peguy,  Charles,    187,   329 
Penido,  M.  T.-L.,   333 
Pepper,   S.   C,    340,    341,    342 
Percival,  M.  O.,  331 
Percy,  Thomas,  53 
Periods,   Periodization,    274 
Perry,  Bliss,   168,   325 
Personality  (in  Literature),  73,  85 
Perspectivism,    35,    159,    261 
Petersen,  Julius,  279,  345 
Petrarch    (Petrarca,    Francesco),    94 
Petsch,  Robert,  304,  336 
Peyre,  Henri,   305,   342,   345 
Phillipe,  Charles  Louis,   187,  329 
Philology,  29 
Philosophy   (and  Literature),   1071!., 

122,   152 
Phonemics,  153 
Pindar,  93 

Pinder,  Wilhelm,  345 
Pinto,  V.  de  Sola,  320 
Plato,    16,    19,    25,    27,    28,    58,    108, 

no,  115,  237,  302,  307,  331,  33S 
Plautus,   228 

Plekhanov,  Georgi,  97,  314 
Plot,  The,  224 
Plotinus,   111,   141 
Poe,    Edgar    Allen,    19,    40,    69,    79, 

80,    83,    126,    130,    159,    193,    221, 

224,  228,  229,  230,  231,  243,  312, 

335 
Poetic  Diction,   185,   186,   201 
Poppelmann,  Daniel  Adam,   149 
Poggioli,   Renato,    340 
Polarities,    79,    iisff.,    1  3  1  f .,    210  ff. 
Polti,    G.,    336 
Point  of  View,    152,   231  f. 


Polfvka,  Jiff,  303 
Pollard,  A.  W.,  54,  307 
Pollard,  Graham,  61,  309 
Pollock,   Thomas  Clark,    11,    300 
Pongs,  Hermann,  210,  212,  213,  332, 

333,  334 

Poole,  Thomas,   309 

Pope,  Alexander,  3,  31,  33,  35,  51, 
53,  7°,  75,  94,  no,  112,  162,  163, 
169,  186,  204,  216,  217,  258,  259, 
260,   271,  307,  322,  324,  332 

Pope,  John  C,  326 

Posnett,  Hutcheson  Macaulay,  42, 
304 

Potter,   Stephen,   299 

Pottle,  Frederick  A.,  32,  303,  305, 
342 

Pound,  Ezra,   191,  330 

Praz,    Mario,     113,    215,    228,    291, 

3i9,   334,   337,    342 
Prescott,  Frederick  H.,   312 
Pressey,  L.  C,  346 
Price,  Hereward  T.,  307 
Prior,   Matthew,   261 
Propaganda,  26 
Prose-rhythm,    164,    165 
Proust,    Marcel,    75,    81,    86,    87,    99, 

125,    187,   246,   257,   289,    312 
Psychoanalysis,    76,   87 
Psychology     and     Literature,     75  ft., 

146,    147,    187,    188 
Pushkin,    Alexander,    92,     111,     166, 

178,    185,   246,   313,   318 
Puttenham,  George,  332 


Quarles,  Francis,   200 
Quentin,  Dom  Henri,   52 
Quevedo    y    Villegas,    Francisco, 
Quiller-Couch,  Sir  Arthur,   307 
Quintilian,    210,   331,   333 


Rabelais,    Francois,     hi,     180,     187, 

287,    329 
Racine,  Jean,  79,  133,  187,  227,  245, 

247,   268,   293,   329 
Radcliffe,  Anne,  223,  229 
Rageot,  Gaston,  315 
Raglan,     Fitzroy    Richard    Somerset, 

Lord,    331 
Rahv,  Philip,  336 
Railo,  Eino,   339 
Rank,  Otto,   76 


Index  399 

Ranke,  Leopold,  266 

Ransom,  John  Crowe,  22,   163,   324, 

339 
Ratchford,  Fannie,  309 
Read,  Herbert,   311 
Reading,  Art  of,  9 
Reading  Public,   94 
Realism,  88,  220 
Reed,  A.  W.,  305 
Reeve,  Clara,  223,  335 
Rehm,  Walter,   113,  319 
Reid,  L.  A.,   255,  256,  342 
Relativism,    32,    104,    121,    157,   259, 

260 
Religion   (and  poetry),  197 
Rembrandt  van  Rijn,   115,   134 
Research,   29,  49 
Restoration  Comedy,    100  f. 
Revisions   (of  authors),   86 
Reynolds,   George   G.,   321 
Rhyme,    161,    162 
Rhythm,   130,   164 
Rhythm  of  Prose,    165  f. 
Ribot,    Theodule    Armand,     79,     80, 

311,  312 
Richards,    Ivor    Armstrong,    4,     140, 

146,  147,  163,  191,  197,  201,  260, 

299,  323,   324,   33o,   332 
Richardson,  Charles  F.,  324 
Richardson,  Dorothy,  343 
Richardson,    Samuel,    115,   246 
Richter,  Jean  Paul,  119,  231 
Rickert,    Heinrich,    5,    299 
Rickword,  C.  H.,  323 
Riehl,  Alois,  16,  300 
Rig-Veda,  40 
Rilke,  Rainer  Maria,  293 
Rimbaud,  Arthur,   164,  203 
Roback,  A.  A.,  3  1 1 
Robert,   Carl,   320 
Robertson,     James     McKinnon,      59, 

184,   307,   308,   315,   328 
Robinson,  F.  N.,  51 
Roe,  F.  C,  343 
Romains,  Jules,   187,  329 
Romance    (The),   223 
Romance  Literatures,  42 
Romanticism,     105,     118,     133,     134, 

276,  280 
Romanticism,  German,    iigf.,    133 
Root,  Robert  Kilburn,  306 
Rosa,  Salvatore,  124 


329 


400 


Index 


Rosenberg',  Harold,  334 
Rosenblatt,  Louise,  314 
Rossetti,  Dante  Gabriel,  128 
Rozanov,  Vasili,    111,   318 
Rubens,  Peter  Paul,  115,  134 
Rudler,  Gustave,  62 
Rugoff,  Milton,  213 
Ruskin,    John,    114,    165,    167,    210, 

333 
Russian    Formalists,    173,    225,    252, 

253,   280,   288 
Russian    Literary   Scholarship,    287 
Rusu,  Liviu,  80,  311 
Rutz,   Ottmar,   165,   325 

Sainean,  Lazare,  180,  327 
Saint-Beuve,  Auguste,  30,  264 
Saintsbury,    George,    165,    166,    167, 
168,  182,  264,  271,  272,  325,  328, 

343,  344 
Sakulin,  P.  N.,  92,  313 
Sand,   George,    121 
Saran,  Franz,   170,   172,   326 
Sarcey,   Francisque,   339 
Sartre,  Jean-Paul,   330 
Saurat,  Denis,  257 
Saussure,   Ferdinand   de,    323 
Savage,  Richard,  214 
Saxl,   Fritz,    124,   320 
Scaliger,  Julius  Caesar,  238 
Sceve,  Maurice,   258 
Scientific  Language,   18 
Scheler,  Max,   164,  316 
Schelling,  F.  W.,  108,  no,  in,  115, 

116,    119,    133 
Schick,  Josef,   303 
Schiller,   Friedrich,   40,    81,    82,    in, 

H5>  *33,  320 
Schlauch,  Margaret,  303 
Schlegel,    August    Wilhelm,    41,    59, 

70,   133,  237,  281,  304,  308,  324, 

345 
Schlegel,     Friedrich,    41,     119,     120, 

J33,   237>   281,   304,   345 
Schneider,   Elizabeth,    81,   312 
Schneider,  Wilhelm,   182,   328 
Schnitzler,  Arthur,   187,   328 
Schoeffler,   Herbert,   3  1 3 
Scholarship,  Literary,    29 
Schopenhauer,  Arthur,  266 
Schorer,    Mark,    300,    314,    331,    335 
Schramm^  Wilbur  L.,   170,  326 


Schubert,  Franz,  115,  127 

Schiicking,  Levin  L.,  97,  300,  315, 
322 

Schiitze,  Martin,  311,  312,  322 

Schumann,  Detlev  W.,  345 

Schumann,  Robert,   127 

Scott,  Geoffrey,  305 

Scott,  Sir  Walter,  53,  68,  82,  83,  94, 
98,  223,  225,  227,  336 

Scripture,   E.   W.,    170 

Sechan,  Louis,   320 

Seckel,  Dietrich,  324 

Selincourt,  Ernest  de,  56 

Selver,  Paul,  309 

Semantics,  of  Literature,   12  ff. 

Seneca,  301 

Setting,  225 

Sewell,  Arthur,  337 

Shaftesbury,  Anthony  Ashley  Cooper, 
Lord,    1 10,    141 

Shakespeare,  6,  15,  16,  23,  25,  35, 
40,  54>  55,  56,  58,  59>  61,  68,  69, 
70,  71,  73,  79>  8°,  85,  92,  95,  99, 
102,  103,  107,  109,  111,  112,  127, 
132,  148,  180,  182,  193,  198,  207, 
208,  209,  215,  216,  217,  225,  229, 
230,  234,  236,  240,  245,  247,  253, 
255,  259,  271,  273,  290,  291,  301, 
302,  303,  305,  307,  308,  309,  313, 
3i5)  316,  3i75  322,  324,  328,  333, 
334,  335,   337,   339,  342,  344 

Shapiro,  Karl,  312 

Shaw,  George  Bernard,  no,  339 

Shaw,  Thomas,  345 

Shelley,  Percy  Bysshe,  25,  56,  69,  79, 
91,   no,   112,   116,   194,  242,  256, 

259,    277,    330,    339,    344 
Shenstone,  William,  241 
Shepard,  William  P.,   241 
Sheridan,  Richard  B.,  44 
Shestov,  Leo,   111,  318 
Shils,   Z.,    316 
Shipley,  J.  T.,  340,  344 
Shirley,  James,   199 
Shklovsky,    Viktor,     246,     252,     323, 

340 
Sholokhov,   Mikhail,   99 
Sidney,    Sir    Philip,     114,     175,    204, 

206,   220,   335 
Sienkiewicz,  Henryk,  98 
Sievers,   Eduard,    165,    170,    325 
Sign,    12 


Index 


401 


Silz,  Walter,  310,   311 

Sincerity,  215 

Sir   Gawain  and  the   Green  Knight, 

180 
Sir  Thomas  More,  55,  307 
Sismondi,     Jean-Charles-Leonard     Si- 

monde  de,  41,  304 
Sisson,   C.  J.,    309,    335 
Skard,  Sigmund,  3 1 9 
Skeat,  W.  W.,  61,  308 
Skelton,  John,  175,  180,  259 
Slavic  Literatures,  42 
Slovo  o  folku  Igor  eve,  61,  308 
Smart,    Christopher,     50,     178,    206, 

305 
Smart,  J.  S.,  308 
Smirnov,   A.   A.,    103,    316 
Smith,   Adam,    10 
Smith,  Horatio,   313 
Smith,  James  H.,  313 
Smith,  Logan  Pearsall,   255 
Smollett,  Tobias,   99,   229 
Social  Ideology,  91  f. 
Social   Provenience    (of   writers) ,    9 1 
Social  Types,   100 
Society,  Literature  and,  88  ff.,   129 
Sociology  of   Knowledge,    103 
Sociology  of  the  Writer,   93  f. 
Socrates,    195,    196 
Sophocles,  20,   255,   301 
Sorel,  Georges,    196,   331 
Sorokin,  Pitirim,   105,   300,  317,  322 
Sound-Imitation,   163  [!59 

Sound  stratum  (in  poetry),  146,  152, 
Sources,  231 
Southey,  Robert,  163 
Space  in  Literature,   16 
Spargo,  John  Webster,   306 
Speare,  M.  E.,  242 
Spencer,  Herbert,  42 
Spencer,  Theodore,    113,  319 
Spengler,  Oswald,  33,  117,  121,  131, 

267,   268,   321,   333,   334 
Spenser,     Edmund,     109,     124,     131, 

i34>  175,  184,  199,  205,  207,  227, 

236,  259,  269,  306,  320,  328 
Sperber,  Hans,  328 
Spingarn,  J.  E.,  302,  323,  338 
Spinoza,  Baruch,  110,  in,  115,  129, 

254 
Spitzer,  Leo,  109,  187,  300,  318,  328, 

329,   346 


Spranger,  Eduard,  311 

Spurgeon,    Caroline,    70,    215,    216, 

334,  335 
Stace,  W.  T,  22,  301,   302 
Standards,  see  Norms,  Evaluation 
Stanislavsky,  Konstantin  S.,  339 
Stapfer,   P.,    315 
Starkenburg,  316 

Statistics,  4,  5,   8,  60,   166,   173,    186 
Stauffer,  Donald,  326 
Stead,  W.   F.,   305 
Steele,  Joshua,   165,  325 
Steevens,  George,   307 
Stefansky,  Georg,   117,   320 
Stein,  Gertrude,  35,   167 
Steinbeck,  John,  99,  225 
Stendhal,  72,   87,   115,  309,  313 
Stephen,  Leslie,   263,  343 
Sterne,  Laurence,  44,    no,   143,  231, 

234,    236,    246,    270 
Stevenson,  R.  L.,   57 
Stewart,  George  Ripley,  Jr.,  172,  326 
Stewart,  J.  A.,   331 
Stoll,    Edgar    Elmer,    32,    101,    216, 

290,  300,  303,  309,  313,  315,  322, 

342 
Stone,  N.  I.,  316 
Stowe,  Harriet  Beecher,  97,  99 
Strachey,  Lytton,   69 
Strauss,  David  Friedrich,    no 
Stream  of  Consciousness,   87,  233 
Strich,  Fritz,  133,  322,  329,  331 
Structure,   141,   153,  156 
Stumpf,  Carl,   164,  324 
Style   and   Stylistics,    177  ff. 
Sugden,  Herbert  W.,  328 
Summers,  Montague,  339 
Surrey,    Henry    Howard,    Earl,    175, 

324 
Sutherland,  James,   307 
Swedenborg,   Emanuel,   331 
Swift,  Jonathan,   92,    197,   220,   229, 

in,  339 
Swinburne,  Algernon,  110,  170 
Sylvester,  Joshua,  205 
Synaesthesia,   78,   191 
Syncopation,   170 
Symbol,   84,   193  ff. 
Symonds,    John    Addington,    3,    267, 

273,  299 
Symons,  Arthur,  3,  274,  345 


402 


Index 


Taine,  Hippolyte,   101,  264,  293 

Tannenbaum,  Samuel  A.,  306,  307 

Tate,  Allen,   258,   303,   342 

Taupin,  Rene,  330 

Tawney,  R.  H.,  316 

Taylor,  George  C,   344 

Taylor,   Jeremy,    167 

Teeter,   Louis,    181,    323,    328 

Teggart,  F.  J.,  267,  344 

Tennyson,    Alfred,    Lord,    110,    163, 

180,  259,  327 
Terence,   228 
Terry,  Ellen,  73 
Textual  Criticism,  51,  55 
Texture,  7 
Thackeray,   William    Makepeace,    17, 

99,    128,   231 
Theobald,  Lewis,   54 
Theory  and  Practice,  93 
Theory,   Literary,   passim,   9,    28,    29 
Thibaudet,    Albert,     124,     233,     290, 

312,   320,   337,   338,   339 
Thomas,  William   Beach,    314 
Thomas  Aquinas,    no 
Thomas  a  Kempis,  61 
Thompson,  Sir  E.  M.,  307 
Thompson,  E.  N.  S.,   308,   334 
Thompson,  Francis,  333 
Thompson,  Stith,   336 
Thomson,   George,    105,    317        [240 
Thomson,  James,  110,  114,  186,  214, 
Thomson,  William,  326,  334 
Thon,  Luise,   189 
Thoreau,   Henry,   208 
Thorburn,  John  M.,  311 
Thorndike,  Ashley,   94,   95,   314 
Thrall,  Miriam,  M.  H.,  314 
Tieck,    Ludwig,    80,    124,    125,    231 
Tillotson,    Geoffrey,    186,    286,    322, 

327,   32-8 
Tillyard,   Aelfrida,    312 
Tillyard,  E.  M.,   150,  323 
Time  in  Literature,   16,  226 
Tinker,      Chauncey      Brewster,      310, 

_3i4 
Titian    (Tiziano    Vecelli),    131,    134 
Tolnay,  Karoly,    129,   321 
Tolstoy,  Leo,   17,  73,  80,  91,  92,  99, 

in,    144,    185,    227,    257,    318 
Tomars,  Adolph  Siegfried,  89 
Tomashevsky,   Boris,    166,    325,    326, 

336 


Toscanini,  Arturo,   145 
Tourneur,  Cyril,  60,  333 
Toynbee,  Arnold,   267,   268 
Trahard,  Pierre,    114,   319 
Traherne,  Thomas,   72,   214,   334 
Trilling,   Lionel,    310 
Troeltsch,   Ernst,   32,   302,   324 
Trollope,  Anthony,  55,   79,  99,   221, 

223 
Trowbridge,  Hoyt,  303 
Truth   in  Literature,   24 
Turgenev,   Ivan,    92,   99,    167 
Tuve,  Rosemond,   32 
Twain,  Mark,   69,  81,  224,   225 
Tynyanov,    Yuryi,    326 
Typologies:    of    artists,    78,    79;    of 

W  eltanschaiiungy     115;     of    styles, 

133,    134 
Tyrwhitt,  Thomas,   59,   61,   308 

Ullman,   S.   de,    3  1 1 

Ulrich,  C.  F.,  314 

Ulrici,  Hermann,  107,  317 

Unconscious,   The,    78,    82  f. 

Unger,  Rudolf,    112,    113,    114,   H5> 

1 16,    286,    318,    319 
Uniqueness,   8 
Universal,  The,   8 
Utter,  R.  P.,  315,  336 

Valentin,   Veit,    339 

Valery,  Paul,   S2,   203,   312 

Value,  248 

Vanbrugh,  Sir  John,  315 

Van  Doren,  Mark,  300 

Van  Dyck,  Antoine,   131 

Van    Tieghem,    Paul,    41,    242,    244, 

246,  304,  336,  339,  340 
Vaughan,  Henry,   203 
Vaughan,   Wayland   F.,   310 
Veblen,    Thorstein,    95 
Velasquez,  Diego,   115 
Veltman,  A.,  231 
Verdi,  Giuseppe,  127 
Verlaine,  Paul,   126 
Veronese,   Paolo,    135 
Verrier,  Paul,    170,    172,   326,   327 
Veselovsky,    Alexander   N.,    303,    344 
Vico,   Giambattista,    no,    195 
Victor,    Karl,    237,    241,    273,    33S, 

340,  345 
Villemain,  Abel   Francois,   38 


Index 


403 


Vinogradov,    Viktor    V.,     178,     185, 

323,  327 
Virgil,  93,   163,  199,  235,  236,  259, 

301 
Vischer,    Friedrich    Theodor,    1 6 
Visualizing  of  Metaphors,  17,  igoff. 
Vitruvius,    149 
Vivas,  Eliseo,  261,  343 
Voltaire,    94,   247,    268,    329 
Volynsky,  A.  L.,  in,  318 
Vossler,    Karl,    177,    183,    327,    333, 

334 

Wach,  Joachim,  317 

Wade,  Gladys  I.,   72,  214,  334 

Wagner,  Richard,   126,  331 

Walker,  Alice,   332 

Waller,  Edmund,  258 

Walpole,   Horace,   230,   243 

Walsh,  Dorothy,   301,   341 

Walton,  Isaac,  68,   214 

Walzel,    Oskar,    116,    131,    132,    133, 

140,  300,  304,  313,  319,  322,  323, 

325,  328,  329,  337,  345 
Ward,    Mrs.    Humphry,    243 
Waring,  James,   319 
Warren,  Austin,   302,   328 
Warren,  Robert  Penn,  260 
Warton,   Thomas,   61,   98,    263,    308, 

3i5>   343)   344 
Watteau,  Antoine,   127 
Watts,  Isaac,  200 
Weber,  Max,   100,  104,  316 
Webster,  John,  60,  333 
Wechssler,  Eduard,  183,  279,  345 
Wellek,  Albert,  311,  324 
Wellek,    Rene,    318,    320,    321,    339, 

343 
Wells,  H.  G.,  99 
Wells,  Henry  W.,  205,  206,  207,  209, 

2i7>  245,  333 
Wenceslaus  II,  King  of  Bohemia,  94 
Werner,  Heinz,  202,  325,  332 
Wheelwright,   Philip,    197,   330 
Whistler,  James  Abbot  McNeill,   24, 

125 
Whitcomb,  S.  L.,  336 
White,  H.  O.,  344 
Whitman,  Walt,  53,  200,  306,  332 
Whitmore,  C.  E.,  338 
Wicksteed,  J.  H.,    194,   330 
Wilde,  Oscar,  24,  41,  275,  312 


Willcock,  Gladys  Doidge,  332 
Williamson,   George,    254,    259,    329, 

343 
Wilson,  Dover,  54,  55,  285,  307 
Wilson,  Edmund,  310 
Wilson,   Harold  S.,   344 
Wilson,   Katherine  M.,   325 
Wilson,  Romer,   310 
Wilson,  Thomas,   344 
Wimsatt,    William    Kurtz,    Jr.,     162, 

182,   299,    324,   325,   328 
Winckelmann,  J.  J.,  265 
Wind,  Edgar,  320 
Windelband,  Wilhelm,  5,   108,  299 
Wirth,  L.,  316 
Wise,  T.  J.,  61,  62,  309 
Wolfflin,    Heinrich,     116,     131,     132, 

133)   134,  259)   32i 

Wolfe,  Thomas,  75 

Woodberry,  George,  304 

Woodbridge,  E.,  301 

Woodhouse,  Richard,  309 

Woolf,  Virginia,  222 

Wordsworth,  William,  33,  35,  56, 
70,  71,  72,  no,  116,  185,  192, 
208,  216,  242,  252,  259,  272,  280, 

291)    309,    339 
"World,"    The,   of    a    Novelist,    152, 

221 
World  Literature,  41 
Worringer,   Wilhelm,    211,    333,    334 
Wrenn,  J.  H.,  309 
Wundt,  Wilhelm,  201 
Wycherley,  William,  315 
Wyld,    Henry   Cecil,    162,    324,    327, 

328 

Xenopol,  A.  D.,  6,  299 

Yeats,  William  Butler,  16,  44,  no, 
i94>  197)  211,  212,  213,  303,  330, 
33i)   333)   334)   342 

Yule,  Udny,  60,  308 

Zabel,  Morton  D.,  302 
Zeydel,  Edwin  H.,  308 
Zeitgeist,  66,  121,  135 
Zhirmunsky,   Viktor,    162,    322,    324, 

326,  327,  344 
Zielinski,  T.,   300 
Zimmermann,  Robert,   132 
Zola,  Emile,   149,  229 


Date  Due 


Due 


Returned 


Due 


Returned 





Otf  u  i  »! 


9  t99! 
FB ""oft ~»95 


— 


_____ 


MAR  ?,  2  19bi 

lrov'2T2noi 


UNIVERSITY    OF    FLORIDA 


Withdrawn 


3  12b2  0MM5A2AA  1 


^OF.Su^toWemetMchWe        %Q  j 


pM  i  i.  ') 


