ARABIAN  NIGHTS 

"The  result  was  that  Abraham 
spent  much  time  at  David  Turnham* s  in 
studying  the  statutes  of  his  adopted 
State.  When  David  wanted  the  hook, 
Abraham  turned  to  Scott's  Lessons  and 
Sinbad  the  Sailor,  two  books  which  David 
owned.  He  read  these  books  through  at 
David's  house,  besides  studying  the  laws 
of  Indiana  quite  thoroughly.  To  him  the 
Statutes  were  by  no  means  dry,  as  they 
would  have  been  to  most  of  his  companion." 

See  Thayer's  "Pioneer  Home 
to  White  House",  pages  172-73. 

See  also  page  23  of  "The  Real 
Lincoln*!  by  Jesse  Weik. 

H.  E.  Barker 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  with  funding  from 

The  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  through  an  Indiana  State  Library  LSTA  Grant 


http://www.archive.org/details/thousandonenightOOphil 


THE    ENCHANTED    HORSE. 


THE 


THOUSAND  AND  ONE  NIGHTS; 


OR,  THE 


ARABIAN  NIGHTS' 


ENTERTAINMENTS. 


A  NEW  EDITION. 


PHILADELPHIA: 
PORTER    &    COATES. 


Ke  53+1 


% 


nun 

Sehahriar  and  Schahzenan 5 

The  Ox,  the  Ass,  and  the  Farmer 9 

The  Merchant  and  the  Genie 13 

The  Old  Man  and  the  Hind 14 

Story  of  the  Old  Man  and  the  Two  Black  Dogs 16 

Story  of  the  Fisherman 17 

Story  of  the  Grecian  King  and  the  Physician  Dcfuban 20 

History  of  the  King  of  the  Black  Isles..... 26 

Story  of  the  Three  Calendars,  Sons  of  Kings,  and  of  the  Five 

Ladies  of  Bagdad 32 

History  of  the  First  Calendar 38 

History  of  the  Second  Calendar .  41 

Story  of  the  Envious  Man,  and  of  him  that  he  envied 45 

History  of  the  Third  Calendar 51 

History  of  Zobeide «''-' 

History  of  Amine 63 

The  Seven  Voyages  of  Sindbad  the  Sailor 66 

Sindbad's  First  Voyage 67 

Sindbad's  Second  Voyage 69 

Sindbad's  Third  Voyage 72 

Sindbad's  Fourth  Voyage 77 

Sindbad's  Fifth  Voyage 82 

Sindbad's  Sixth  Voyage 85 

Sindbad's  Seventh  Voyage 88 

History  of  the  Three  Apples 91 

Story  of  Noureddin  Ali  and  Bedreddin  Hassan 96 

Story  of  Aladdin,  or  the  Wonderful  Lamp Ill 

Story  of  Little  Hunchback 140 

The  Story  told  by  the  Christian  Merchant 143 

The  Story  told  by  the  Purveyor 148 

The  Story  told  by  the  Jewish  Physician 153 

The  Story  told  by  the  Tailor 159 

Story  of  the  Barbel  165 

ran 


It  contents. 

PAOB 

Story  of  the  Bailer's  Eldest  Brother 166 

Story  of  the  Barter's  Second  Brother 167 

Story  of  the  Barber's  Third  Brother 169 

Story  of  the  Barber's  Fourth  Brother 172 

Story  of  the  Barber's  Fifth  Brother 174 

Story  of  the  Barber's  Sixth  Brother 178 

History  of  Aboulhassen  Ali  Eben  Becar,  and  Schemselnihar, 

Favorite  of  the  Caliph  Haroun  Alraschid 182 

History  of  Camaralzaman,  Prince  of  Khaledan,  and  Badoura, 

Princess  of  China 192 

Story  of  the  Princess  Badoura,  after  her  Separation  from  Prince 

Camaralzaman 208 

Story  of  the  Princes  Amgrad  and  Assad 216 

Story  of  Noureddin  and  the  fair  Persian 231 

Story  of  Beder,  Prince  of  Persia,  and  Giauhara,  Princess  of 

Samandal 247 

History  of  Ganem,  Son  to  Abou  Ayoub,  surnamed  Love's  Slave  268 

History  of  Prince  Zeyn  Alasnam,  and  the  King  of  the  Genii  279 

History  of  Codadad  and  his  Brothers 290 

History  of  the  Princess  of  Deryabar 295 

Story  of  the  Sleeper  Awakened,  or  the  Dead  Alive 305 

Adventures  of  the  Caliph  Haroun  Alraschid 329 

Story  of  the  Blind  Man,  Baba  Abdallah 330 

Story  of  Sidi  Nonman 335 

Story  of  Cogia  Hassan  Alhabbal 340 

Story  of  Ali  Baba,  and  the  Forty  Thieves 349 

Story  of  Ali  Cogia,  Merchant  of  Bagdad 362 

History  of  the  Enchanted  Horse 366 

Story  of  Prince  Ahmed  and  the  Fairy  Paribanon 376 

Story  of  Habib  and  Dorathil-goase,  or  the  Arabian  Knight...  396 
Story  of  Illabousatrous,  of  King  Schal-goase,  and  of  Camaril- 

zaman 410 

Story  of  the  Lady  of  the  Beautiful  Tresses 472 

Story  of  the  Princess  Parizade,  or  the  Talking  Bird,  the  Sing- 
ing Tree,  and  the  Yellow  Water 530 

C  inclusion 542 


AEABIAN    NIGHTS' 

ENTERTAINMENTS. 


IN  the  death  of  Schemseddin  Mohammed,  king  of 
Persia,  Schahriar,  his  eldest  son,  succeeded  to  the 
throne.  This  prince,  though  hasty  and  violent  in 
his  temper,  had  many  virtues.  He  had  the  truest  affec- 
tion for  his  youngest  brother,  Schahzenan  ;  and  on  receiv- 
ing the  empire,  instead  of  suffering  him  to  languish  in 
obscurity,  he  gave  his  beloved  brother  the  powerful  king- 
dom of  great  Tartary;  and  sent  him  to  take  possession  of 
it,  with  a  splendor  suitable  to  the  dignity  of  a  mighty  and 
independent  prince. 

After  an  absence  of  ten  j^ears,  the  royal  brothers  had  a 
great  desire  to  see  each  other ;  and  the  king  of  Tartary,  at 
the  earnest  request  of  Schahriar,  resolved  to  pay  him  a 
visit.  He  accordingly  began  his  journey  with  a  suitable 
equipage ;  but  as  the  arranging  so  large  a  retinue  pre- 
vented his  advancing  far  the  first  day,  he  returned  pri- 
vately in  the  evening  to  his  palace,  to  take  another 
farewell  of  his  queen,  whom  he  passionately  loved.  On 
entering  her  apartment  suddenly,  with  the  hope  of  giving 
her  an  agreeable  surprise,  he  was  shocked  to  find  her 
sleeping  in  the  arms  of  a  slave.  Overcome  with  rage,  the 
king  drew  his  sabre,  and  deprived  them  both  of  life.  He 
1*  (5) 


6  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

then  returned  to  his  pavilion;  and  though  oppressed  with 
the  keenest  sorrow,  he  determined  to  pursue  his  journey. 

When  Schahzenan  arrived  at  the  capital  of  Persia,  the 
saltan  received  him  with  open  arms.  But  a  deep  melan- 
choly had  seized  the  unfortunate  king  of  Tartary,  which 
all  the  efforts  of  his  brother  could  not  overcome.  In  vain 
did  the  court  of  Persia  exhibit  all  its  splendor,  Schah- 
zenan remained  gloomy  and  insensible.  On  a  sudden, 
without  any  apparent  cause,  this  sadness  disappeared,  and 
he  became  again,  all  at  once,  the  same  sprightly  companion 
and  affectionate  brother,  whom  Schahriar  had  so  tenderly 
loved  before  their  separation. 

The  sultan  of  Persia  rejoiced  exceedingly  at  this  alter- 
ation ;  but  he  was  also  much  surprised  at  it.  No  cause 
appeared  for  the  sorrow  which  had  bowed  down  his 
brother;  no  reason  could  be  conjectured  why  it  should  so 
suddenly  leave  him.  As  soon,  therefore,  as  Schahriar 
found  that  the  king  was  effectually  recovered,  he  became 
importunate  for  an  explanation  of  the  mystery.  Schah- 
zenan made  no  difficulty  of  acquainting  his  brother  with 
the  infidelity  of  his  queen,  but  entreated  him  to  cease 
inquiring  why  he  had  shaken  off  the  sorrow  which  her 
baseness  had  occasioned.  The  sultan  became  alarmed; 
and  judging  by  the  reluctance  of  his  brother  that  he  was 
somehow  interested  in  the  affair,  he  adjured  the  king  of 
Tartary  to  hide  nothing  from  him. 

Schahzenan  was  obliged  to  comply.  He  requested  the 
sultan  would  indulge  him  only  till  the  next  day,  and 
would  order  the  court  to  prepare  for  a  grand  hunting- 
match  to  take  place  then.  Schahriar  complied  ;  and,  as 
further  instructed  by  his  brother,  he  left  his  train,  and 
returned  privately  to  the  king  of  Tartary's  apartments, 
where  there  was  a  closet  which  overlooked  the  gardens 
of  the  sultaness.  Schahzenan  had  from  thence  acciden- 
tally observed  several  interviews  between  that  lady  and  a 
favored  gallant ;  and  from  thence  the  sultan  also  became  a 
witness  of  his  own  dishonor,  and  of  his  wife's  incontinence. 
"  It  was  this  unhappy  secret,"  said  Schahzenan,  "which 
removed  my  despondency ;  as  so  arniable  a  man  as  my 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  7 

brother  could  not  secure  to  himself  the  possession  ?f  a 
woman,  it  convinced  me  that  the  whole  sex  were  con- 
taminated, and  that  it  would  be  idle  in  me  any  longer  to 
bewail  so  common  a  misfortune." 

The  sultan  instantly  sacrificed  his  guilty  wife  and  her 
paramour ;  and  being  overwhelmed  with  affliction,  pro- 
posed to  his  brother  that  they  should  renounce  the  world, 
retire  to  some  obscure  hermitage,  and  finish  their  lives, 
without  being  further  exposed  to  the  treachery  of  women. 

Schahzenan  did  not  think  it  prudent  to  oppose  the  first 
transports  of  his  brother's  rage  and  grief;  he  gave  into 
his  proposal  with  great  apparent  readiness,  but  exacted  a 
promise  from  him,  that  he  would  return  to  his  capital,  and 
reassume  his  throne,  whenever  they  should  meet  with 
any  one  more  unfortunate  in  female  connections  than 
themselves. 

The  princes  having  disguised  themselves,  left  the  city 
secretly,  and* travelled  till  evening,  when  they  arrived  at 
the  sea-side.  At  daybreak  they  were  alarmed  by  a  fright- 
ful noise  from  the  sea,  and  had  scarce  time  to  climb  up 
into  a  tree,  when  they  perceived  a  large  column  arise  iD 
the  midst  of  the  water,  and  advance  toward  the  shore. 
They  presently  found  that  it  was  one  of  those  malignant 
genii,  who  are  enemies  to  mankind,  and  always  doing 
them  mischief.  H§  was  black,  terrific,  and  appeared  like 
a  giant  of  prodigious  stature ;  he  carried  on  his  head  a 
great  glass  box,  which  shut  with  four  locks.  Having  laid 
his  box  down,  he  seated  himself  by  it,  and  opened  it;  when 
there  came  out  a  beautiful  lady,  magnificently  dressed. 
She  sat  down  b}^  the  monster,  who  said  to  her  in  a  voice 
of  tenderness,  "My  charming  mistress,  whom  I  stole  on 
your  wedding-day,  and  have  loved  with  so  much  constancy 
ever  since,  let  me  repose  a  while  by  you  ;  I  came  hither  on 
purpose  to  take  rest."  Having  spoke  thus,  he  laid  down 
his  huge  head  on  the  lady's  knees  and  fell  asleep. 

"When  the  genie's  mistress  perceived  that  he  was  so,  sho 
raised  his  head  from  her  lap,  and  laid  it  on  the  earth.  She 
then  got  up  and  went  to  the  glass  chest,  ard  taking  out  a 
large,  string  of  rii  gs,  she  counted  them  over,  and  examined 


8  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

them  with  much  attention ;  then  turning  toward  the  genie, 
who  was  still  asleep,  she  exclaimed  aloud,  "  Fool,  to  think 
that  jealousy  and  restraint  can  preserve  a  mistress  :  not- 
withstanding thy  vigilance,  I  find  by  these  rings,  every 
one  of  which  I  have  received  from  a  different  gallant,  that 
I  have  had  fourscore  and  eighteen  lovers  since  I  have  been 
in  thy  power  ! " 

The  princes  continued  in  the  tree  till  the  genie  awoke, 
who  having  replaced  the  lady  in  the  chest,  and  locked  it 
up,  took  it  again  on  his  head,  and  returned  into  the  sea. 
When  he  had  been  gone  a  considerable  time,  they  de- 
scended ;  and  the  sultan  being  convinced  that  the  genie  was 
more  unfortunate  than  himself,  yielded  to  the  persuasions 
of  his  brother,  returned  to  his  capital,  and  resumed  his 
government.  After  some  time  the  king  of  Tartary  choos- 
ing to  return  home,  the  sultan  dismissed  him  with  every 
mark  of  fraternal  love,  and  on  his  departure  said  to  him, 
"I  have  at  length  fallen  upon  a  method  to  preserve  the 
chastity  of  a  wife  :  I  will  not  now,"  added  he,  "  explain 
myself;  you  will,  no  doubt,  shortly  hear  of  it ;  and  I  ques- 
tion not  but  you  will  follow  my  example." 

Soon  after  the  departure  of  Schahzenan,  the  sultan 
chose  the  daughter  of  one  of  his  nobles  for  his  bride:  the 
nuptial  ceremony  was  performed ;  the  lady  passed  her 
night  -with  her  royal  bridegroom ;  and  in  the  morning 
the  grand  vizier  received  her  from  his  hands,  with  ordera 
to  put  her  to  death  immediately.  Every  night  now  saw 
a  new  bride  conducted  to  the  sultan's  bed,  and  every 
morning  beheld  her  a  victim  to  his  jealousy  :  the  conster- 
nation was  universal;  there  was  no  parent  who  had  a 
young  and  beautiful  daughter,  but  trembled  for  her  life ; 
and  the  sultan,  instead  of  receiving,  as  before,  the  bless- 
ings of  his  people,  became  the  object  of  their  execrations. 

The  implicit  obedience  which  good  Mussulmans  owe  to 
the  commander  of  the  Faithful,  had  as  yet  restrained  the 
inhabitants  of  Bagdad  from  rebellion,  nor  had  they  taken 
any  measure"!  to  preserve  their  children  from  so  new  a 
calamity  ;  when  the  beauteous  and  accomplished  Scheher- 
azade  laughter  of  the  grand  vizier,  undertook  to  deliver 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS.  9 

fchorr.  from  it,  by  becoming  the  destined  bride.  Her  fathei 
was  astonished  when  she  declared  her  design.  He  used 
every  argument  and  entreaty  to  persuade  her  from  it; 
and  agreeably  to  the  custom  of  the  East,  he  endeavored 
to  enforce  his  reasoning  by  the  following  apologue  : 

THE    OX,    THE    ASS,    AND    THE   FARMER. 

There  lived  in  a  certain  country  a  very  wealthy  farmer, 
whose  lands  were  cultivated  with  the  greatest  care,  and 
abounded  with  all  sorts  of  cattle  and  poultry.  It  so 
happened  that  he  had  an  opportunity  to  render  essential 
service  to  a  very  powerful  genie,  who  in  return,  at  the 
farmer's  request,  endowed  him  with  the  faculty  of  under- 
standing the  language  of  all  animals,  but  on  this  express 
condition,  that  be  should  never  interpret  it  to  any  one,  on 
pain  of  death. 

Some  time  after  this  event,  the  farmer  was  walking 
leisurely  in  his  yard,  when  he  heard  the  following  con- 
versation between  an  ox  and  an  ass.  "  Sprightly,"  said 
the  ox,  "  how  much  do  I  envy  your  condition  !  You  have 
no  labor,  except  now  and  then  to  carry  our  master  little 
journeys ;  in  return  for  which  you  are  well  fed  with  the 
best  corn,  carefully  cleaned,  and  lodged  in  fresh  straw 
every  night;  while  I,  who  work  from  daylight  till  dark, 
and  am  urged  by  the  blows  of  the  ploughman  to  toil 
almost  beyond  my  strength,  when  my  hard  task  is  per- 
formed, am  scantily  supplied  with  coarse  food,  and  pass 
the  night  on  the  common." 

"Those,"  replied  the  ass,  "who  call  you  a  foolish  beast, 
are  not  much  mistaken.  Why  do  you  not,  with  all  that 
strength,  exert  a  little  courage,  and  resist  such  ill  treat- 
ment ?  If  they  give  you  bad  corn,  smell  at  it  and  leave 
it;  and  when  they  are  about  to  fasten  you  to  the  plough, 
bellow  aloud,  stamp  with  your  foot,  and  even  strike  them 
with  j^our  horns.  Be  assured  a  little  resolution  will  soon 
procure  you  better  treatment." 

The  farmer,. having  heard  this  conversation,  was  not  long 
in  coming  to  a  resolution.  The  next  morning  the  laborer1 
found  the  ox  restive  when  he  attempted  to  yoke  him ;  on 


10  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

which,  hy  his  master's  orders,  he  left  him,  and  putting  the 
collar  on  the  ass,  he  fixed  him  to  the  plough,  and  with 
man}-  blows  compelled  him  to  perform  the  work  the  ox 
should  have  done.  .Nor  was  this  all ;  for  when  he  returned 
at  night,  more  dead  than  alive,  he  found  no  straw  to  lie 
on  ;  and  instead  of  a  plentiful  supply  of  the  best  oats, 
there  was  nothing  in  his  manger  but  a  handful  of  coarse 
beans,  ill-cleansed,  which  even  his  extreme  hunger  could 
scarcely  prevail  with  him  to  eat. 

The  ox,  who  had  rested  the  whole  day,  and  been  fed 
with  the  provender  usually  given  to  his  companion,  re- 
ceived him  on  his  return  with  many  compliments,  and 
avowals  of  obligation.  To  these  ceremonies  the  ass  had 
no  relish  ;  without  answering  a  word  he  threw  himself  on 
the  ground,  and,  in  thought,  began  to  upbraid  his  own 
folly.  ':  Was  ever  such  imprudence  as  mine  ? "  said  he 
within  himself.  "How  has  a  silly  officiousness  undone 
me  !  What  had  I  to  wish  for  that  I  did  not  enjoy  ?  when 
did  sorrow  ever  approach  me?  All  this  happiness  I  have 
deservedly  lost  by  meddling  with  that  which  did  not  con- 
cern me." 

The  grand  vizier  applied  the  obvious  moral  to  Scheher- 
azade. But  finding  she  persisted,  he  became  angry.  "  If 
you  will  continue  thus  obstinate,"  said  he,  "you  will  oblige 
me  to  treat  you  in  the  same  manner  the  farmer  did  his 
wife  in  the  sequel  of  the  story." 

The  farmer,  hearing  that  the  ass  was  in  bad  plight,  was 
curious  to  know  what  would  pass  between  him  and  the 
ox.  Accordingly,  after  supper,  he  took  a  walk  with  his 
wife  into  the  yard,  when  he  heard  the  sufferer  sa}-  to  his 
companion  :  "  Comrade,  what  do  you  intend  to  do  to-mor- 
row, when  the  laborer  brings  your  meat?"  "Do,  my 
best  friend  !"  replied  the  ox  ;  "  why,  I  will  carefully  attend 
to  your  instructions;  if  my  corn  is  not  of  the  very  best 
quality.  I  will  not  deign  to  touch  it;  and  if  he  presumes 
to  lay  a  halter  on  me,  I  will  not  fail  to  knock  him  down." 

"  I  fancy,"  replied  the  ass,  "you  will  think  it  prudent 
to  alter  that  resolution,  when  I  relate  tc  you  what  I  heard 
our  master  say  to  the  laborer  just  now  "     The  ass  having 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    EN TERTAINAIENTS.  11 

thus  excited  the  attention  and  fear  of  the  ox,  told  him 
very  gravely,  that  the  farmer  had  ordered  his  servant,  if 
the  ox  continued  restive,  to  knock  him  on  the  head  the 
day  following,  and  distribute  his  flesh  among  the  poor. 
The  ox,  alarmed  at  this  stor}T,  bellowed  aloud  for  fear, 
and  vowed  submission  to  the  laborer;  which  resolution 
the  ass  was  forward  to  commend. 

The  farmer  was  so  pleased  with  the  cunning  of  the  ass, 
and  the  terrors  of  the  ox,  that  he  burst  into  an  immoder- 
ate fit  of  laughter.  His  wife,  who  saw  no  reason  for  this 
extraordinary  mirth,  was  curious  to  know  the  cause  of  it. 
He  tried  to  evade  her  question;  but  the  more  he  sought 
to  divert  her  attention,  the  more  earnest  she  became  in 
her  inquiry.  At  length,  tired  with  her  importunity,  he 
told  her  that  the  cause  of  his  laughing  must  continue  a 
secret.  "  You  will  not,  I  suppose,"  added  he,  "  urge  me 
any  further,  when  I  acquaint  you  that  my  revealing  it 
would  certainly  cost  me  my  life." 

This  assertion,  which  she  affected  not  to  believe,  made 
the- wife  redouble  her  importunities;  the  farmer,  however, 
continued  resolute,  and  suffered  her  to  pass  the  night  in 
tears  without  much  concern.  But  when  he  found  next 
day  that  the  same  obstinate  desire  of  the  fatal  informa- 
tion continued,  he  was  exceedingly  distressed.  He  called 
in  the  assistance  of  his  neighbors  and  relations,  who  in 
vain  represented  to  her  the  unreasonableness  of  her  re- 
quest. She  persisted  ;  and  the  unhappy  farmer  was  on 
the  point  of  gratifying  her,  at  the  expense  of  his  life, 
when  an  incident  determined  him  to  alter  his  intention. 

Going  out  of  his  door,  he  heard  his  faithful  dog  relating 
with  concern  the  story  of  his  embarrassment  to  a  cock, 
who  heard  it  with  much  contempt.  "A  pretty  fellow, 
truly,"  replied  the  cock,  "is  this  master  of  ours,  who  can- 
not manage  one  wife,  when  I  govern  fifty!  Let  him  take 
a  good  crab-stick,  and  use  it  properly,  I  will  engage  she 
will  soon  dismiss  her  impertinent  curiosity."  The  honest 
farmer  took  the  hint ;  his  wife  returned  to  her  duty ;  and 
you,  my  daughter,  if  treated  in  the  same  manner,  would 
no  doubt  be  as  conformable  to  my  desires,  aod  forego  so 
desperate  an  experiment. 


12  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Notwithstanding  this  and  every  other  method  taken  to 
shake  her  determination,  Scheherazade  continued  unmoved, 
and  the  grand  vizier  was  obliged  to  announce  to  his  sov- 
ereign the  ambition  of  his  daughter.  The  sultan  heard 
him  with  surprise;  after  pausing  for  a  few  moments,  he 
said  to  him,  with  an  air  of  severity:  "I  give  you  oppor- 
tunity to  recall  this  rash  offer;  if  you  persist  in  it,  I  will 
receive  Scheherazade  as  my  wife,  but  presume  not  to  hope 
that  I  will  violate  my  vow  in  her  favor.  On  the  contrary, 
your  own  life,  as  well  as  hers,  shall  be  forfeited,  if  you 
hesitate  for  a  moment  to  execute  my  usual  orders."  Even 
this  menace  had  no  effect  on  the  young  lady;  and  the  un- 
happy father  was  compelled  to  lead  his  darling  child  to 
the  arms  of  his  sovereign,  with  a  full  assurance  of  being 
obliged  to  deprive  her  of  life  with  his  own  hand  the  fol- 
lowing morning. 

When  Scheherazade  was  introduced  to  the  sultan,  he 
was  struck  with  her  beauty  and  modest  sensibility.  Per- 
ceiving her  in  tears,  he  for  a  moment  forgot  his  barbarous 
resolution,  and  endeavored  to  comfort  her.  The  lovely 
sultaness,  pleased  to  see  she  had  made  an  impression  on 
his  savage  heart,  seized  that  moment  to  request  that  her 
sister,  Dinarzade,  might  be  admitted  to  her  next  morning, 
an  hour  before  day,  to  take  her  last  farewell.  The  sultan 
readily  complied ;  and  notice  being  sent  to  her  sister  ac- 
cordingly, the  charming  Scheherazade  suffered  herself  to 
be  conducted  to  the  fatal  couch,  and  became  the  devoted 
bride  to  the  cruel  Schahriar. 

At  the  appointed  hour,  Dinarzade  was  admitted  to  the 
nuptial  chamber;  when  she  made  the  strange  request,  that 
in  the  little  time  which  remained,  before  they  were  to  part 
forever,  the  sultaness  would  relate  to  her  one  of  these 
many  entertaining  stories  she  had  read.  The  sultan,  won- 
dering at  so  singular  a  request,  consented,  at  the  desire  of 
his  bride,  and  even  expressed  a  wish  to  hear  stories  which 
must  be  singular  indeed,  to  be  asked  for  at  such  a  moment. 
Schehnrazade,  encouraged  by  this  wish,  began  thus : 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS-  13 


THE    MERCHANT    AND    THE    GENIE. 

Sir,  1here  was  formerly  a  merchant  whose  extensive 
traffic  obliged  him  to  travel  to  many  places ;  in  one  of 
which  journeys,  finding  himself  much  incommoded  by  the 
heat  of  the  day,  he  alighted  from  his  horse,  and  sat  down 
in  a  shady  grove  ;  when  taking  some  dates  out  of  his  port- 
manteau, he  ate  them,  throwing  the  shells  on  each  side  of 
him.  When  he  had  done  eating,  being  a  good  Mussulman, 
he  washed  his  hands  and  feet  at  an  adjoining  rivulet,  and 
said  his  prayers.  While  he  was  yet  on  his  knees,  a  mon- 
strous genie,  all  white  with  age,  advanced  toward  him 
with  a  scimitar  in  his  hand;  and  uttering  a  frightful  cry, 
exclaimed,  "Rise  up,  that  I  may  kill  thee,  as  thou  hast 
killed  my  son."  The  merchant,  terrified  as  much  at  his 
appearance  as  at  his  threats,  protested  his  innocence. 
"How,"  exclaimed  the  genie,  "did  you  not,  even  now, 
throw  about  the  shells  of  your  dates?  my  son  was  passing 
by,  and  you  threw  one  of  them  into  his  eye,  which  killed 
him  ;  therefore  I  must  kill  thee."  Saying  which,  he  took 
the  merchant  by  the  arm,  threw  him  on  the  ground,  and 
lifted  up  the  scimitar  to  cut  off  his  head. 

In  this  imminent  danger,  the  merchant  earnestly  en 
treated  permission  to  return  home,  and  settle  his  affairs, 
and  take  leave  of  his  family.  "  What  time  do  you  require?" 
said  the  genie.  "I  ask  a  year,"  replied  the  merchant; 
"  I  swear  by  Allah,  that  this  day  twelvemonth  I  will  re- 
turn under  these  trees,  to  put  myself  into  your  hands." 
Upon  this  the  genie  disappeared. 

The  merchant  returned  home  disconsolate.  He  em- 
ployed the  allotted  time  in  properly  regulating  his  affairs 
and  when  it  was  near  expired,  he  took  a  sorrowful  leave 
of  his  family,  and  arrived  at  the  place  where  he  had  prom- 
ised to  meet  the  genie.  While  he  was  waiting  for  his 
dreaded  approach,  he  saw  two  old  men  coming  toward  him 
from  different  quarters,  the  first  leading  a  hind,  the  second 
two  black  dogs. 

They  approach?d  the  trees  where  the  unfortunate  mer- 
ch  int  was  sitting  when  one  of  them  said  to  him,  "  Brother 

9 


14  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

why  do  you  stay  in  this  place?  Do  you  not  know  that  a 
number  of  evil  spirits  resort  to  it,  and  that  it  is  by  no 
means  safe  to  continue  here  ?  "  "Alas  !  "  said  the  merchant, 
"  I  know  that  but  too  well."  He  then  related  his  story  to 
the  old  men,  who  having  heard  it,  agreed  to  continue  with 
him  until  the  genie  should  appear. 

In  a  little  time  they  perceived  a  thick  vapor  advancing 
toward  them,  which  vanishing  all  at  once,  discovered  tne 
genie.  Without  noticing  the  old  men,  he  took  the  mer- 
chant by  the  arm,  saying,  "Kise,  that  I  may  kill  thee,  as 
thou  didst  kill"  my  son."  The  merchant  filled  the  air  with 
his  cries ;  and  the  old  men  prostrating  themselves  on  the 
ground,  entreated  for  him.  The  genie,  with  some  diffi- 
culty, was  persuaded  to  listen  to  their  expostulations,  and 
at  length  to  agree;  that  if  their  several  adventures  were 
more  surprising  than  that  of  the  merchant,  he  would  re- 
lent, and  set  him  at  liberty 

Day  advancing,  the  sultan  arose,  and  the  vizier,  in  much 
affliction,  entered  into  his  presence  in  full  expectation  of 
receiving  the  usual  fatal  orders  ;  but  the  sultan  was  so 
much  taken  with  the  beauty  and  accomplishments  of  his 
lady,  and  his  curiosity  was  so  much  excited  by  the  inter- 
esting story  she  had  begun,  that  he  became  irresolute 
respecting  his  vow  ;  and  talking  to  his  trembling  vizier 
on  other  affairs,  he  left  him  in  suspense  also  as  to  the  fate 
of  his  beloved  daughter. 

The  next  morning  Scheherazade  resumed  her  narrative 
with  the  history  of 

THE    OLD    MAN    AND    THE    HIND. 

"  I  married,"  began  the  first  old  man,  "  in  my  early  life, 
my  cousin,  with  whom  I  lived  more  than  twenty  years  in 
much  happiness.  The  only  thing  that  abated  it  was,  that 
we  had  no  children.  The  desire  of  posterity  induced  me 
to  buy  a  slave,  by  whom  I  shortly  had  a  son.  I  still  lived 
in  great  harmony  with  my  wife,  who  always  treated  the 
slave  kindly,  and  appeared  to  be  very  fond  of  my  boy. 
Some  years  after  his  birth  I  was  obliged  to  go  a  long 
journey,  and  on  nry  return,  my  wife  told  me  that  my  son 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  15 

and  my  slave  were  both  dead.  I  lamented  their  loss  very 
much;  but  the  feast  of  Bairam  approaching,  I  thought  it 
my  duty  to  overcome  my  sorrow,  and  prepare  for  the  holy 
festival. 

"Accordingly  I  gave  orders  to  my  farmer  to  bring  up 
one  of  the  fattest  cows,  to  sacrifice  at  the  commencement 
of  the  solemnity.  He  obeyed ;  but  when  the  cow  was 
brought  to  me  she  bellowed  piteously,  and  I  could  per- 
ceive tears  run  down  from  her  eyes.  Struck  with  so  sin- 
gular a  spectacle,  and  moved,  f  knew  not  how,  1  was 
about  to  send  the  cow  back  and  order  another,  when  my 
wife  opposed  any  exchange  with  great  vehemence.  I  suf- 
fered myself  to  be  prevailed  on;  and  though  I  could  not 
kill  her  myself,  I  ordered  my  farmer  to  do  so,  who  obeyed 
me.  When  she  was  slain,  it  was  found,  notwithstanding 
her  plump  appearance,  that  she  was  mere  skin  and  bone, 
and  wholly  unfit  for  the  intended  sacrifice. 

"I  immediately  sent  for  another  fat  beast;  when  the 
farmer  brought  a  calf,  whose  behavior  was  still  more  ex- 
traordinary. He  broke  the  cord;  ran  to  me,  and  fell  at 
my  feet.  I  determined  to  listen  to  the  impulse  I  felt  in 
favor  of  this  calf,  and  accordingly  ordered  him  to  be  taken 
back;  although  my  wife  interfered  with  still  greater  eager- 
ness, and  insisted  that  he  should  be' slaughtered. 

"  The  day  following,  my  farmer  desired  to  speak  with 
me  alone.  He  took  me  to  his  own  habitation,  and  intro- 
duced me  to  his  daughter;  by  her  I  was  informed  that 
during  my  journey  my  wife  had  learned  the  black  art; 
and  by  that  means  had  transformed  my  slave  into  the  cow 
we  had  unfortunately  slaughtered  the  day  before  ;  and 
my  son  into  the  calf  which  had  so  narrowly  escaped. 

"  I  leave  you  to  judge,  powerful  genie,  how  much  I  was 
distressed  at  this  account.  But  not  doubting  my  informer 
was  able  to  restore  my  son,  as  she  had  the  skill  to  discover 
his  situation,  I  very  earnestly  besought  her  assistance 
'On  two  conditions,'  replied  she,  'I  will  restore  him. 
First,  that  you  give  him  me  for  a  husband ;  and  secondly 
that  yju  permit  me  to  punish  as  she  deserves,  the  wicked 
enchantress  who  has  transformed  him.'     I  consented  ;  she 


16  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

then  pronounced  certain  words,  and  sprinkling  my  son 
with  water,  he  resumed  his  shape.  He  joyfully  married 
his  fair  benefactress,  who  changed  my  wicked  wife  into 
the  hind  you  see  here." 

THE    STORY   OP   THE    OLD    MAN  WITH    THE    TWO    BLACK   DOGS. 

"  Prince  of  genii,"  said  the  second  old  man,  "  these  dogs 
and  myself  are  brothers.  On  the  death  of  our  father  we 
divided  his  substance  among  us,  and  each  received  a  thou- 
sand sequins.  One  of  my1  brothers  resolved  to  travel,  laid 
out  his  money  m  goods  suited  to  the  country  he  intended 
to  visit,  and  depai'ted. 

"  After  a  year's  absence  he  returned  in  great  distress, 
having  lost  all  his  effects.  Meantime,  by  industry,  I  had 
acquired  an  additional  thousand  sequins,  which  I  readily 
gave  him.  My  other  brother,  not  disheartened  by  the  ill 
success  of  the  first,  pursued  the  same  measures ;  very 
shortly  he  also  returned  entirely  ruined.  To  him  also  I 
gave  another  thousand  sequins;  we  then  agreed  to  remain- 
at  home,  and  pursue  our  business  carefulty,  without  seek- 
ing further  adventures. 

"  Some  years  afterward,  both  my  brothers  besought  me 
to  join  with  them  in  a  trading  voyage.  Their  importu- 
nity prevailed.  I  disposed  of  my  stock,  which  now  pro- 
duced six  thousand  sequins,  half  of  which  I  buried  in  a 
corner  of  the  house,  and  gave  each  of  my  brothers  a  thou- 
sand of  the  remainder..  We  arrived  safely  at  our  destined 
port,  where  we  sold  our  adventures  to  good  profit. 

"  When  we  were  nearly  ready  to  return,  I  met  on  the 
banks  of  the  sea  a  lady,  handsome,  but  poorly  clad,  who 
very  earnestly  persuaded  me  to  marry  her.  I  consented, 
and  having  taken  her  on  board  the  vessel,  we  set  sail.  My 
wife  proved  to  be  possessed  of  so  many  good  qualities  that 
I  became  every  day  more  fond  of  her.  My  unworthy 
brothers,  envying  my  superior  good  fortune,  seized  us 
both  while  asleep,  and  threw  us  into  the  sea. 

"But  little  did  these  bad  men  imagine  the  punishment 
that  awaited  their  cruelty  and  ingratitude.  My  wife  was 
a  fairy;  she  conveyed  me  home,  and  conducted  the  vessel 


ARA3IAN    NIOHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS.  17 

which  had  ray  goods  on  board,  safe  into  port.  Before  1 
knew  of  its  arrival,  two  black  dogs  came  crouching  to  me 
in  the  must  submissive  manner.  '  These,'  said  the  fairy. 
'  are  your  brothers.  Thus  is  their  wickedness  requited , 
and  it  is  one  part  of  their  punishment,  that  in  this  de- 
graded stiite  they  must  look  for  support  and  protection  to 
the  bi-other  they  so  basely  betraj^ed.'" 

The  genie  thought  these  adventures  so  singular,  that  he 
remitted  the  punishment  of  the  merchant,  and  disappeared; 
and  the  merchant,  after  suitably  thanking  his  benefactors, 
returned  home  again  with  joy  to  his  family. 

The  sultan  was  delighted  with  these  stories.  He  re- 
quested Scheherazade  to  proceed  next  night  to  another; 
and  going  into  the  divan,  the  vizier,  his  family,  the  court, 
and  the  people  in  general,  were  overjoyed  to  find  that  he 
gave  no  orders  to  put  the  beautiful  sultaness  to  death. 

THE    STORY   OP    THE    FISHERMAN. 

There  was  a  fisherman  who,  when  young,  had  indiscreetly 
vowed  not  to  cast  his  net  above  four  times  a  day.  This 
vow  he  religiously  observed  ;  though  when  he  came  to 
have  a  numerous  family,  he  had  often  occasion  to  regret 
his  having  made  it. 

One  morning,  having  thrown  his  net  three  times  with- 
out the  least  success,  he  was  almost  wild  with  grief.  An- 
other cast  only  remained,  which  he  determined  to  take 
with  particular  attention.  Having  thrown  it,  instead  of 
a  fish  he  drew  up  only  a  small  vessel  of  copper  with  a 
leaden  seal  to  it.  This  seal  he  eagerly  removed,  in  hopes 
of  finding  something  valuable  ;  but  to  his  great  mortifica- 
tion, the  casket  was  empty.  He  threw  it  on  the  ground, 
and  continued  to  eye  it  in  a  kind  of  despair,  when  he  per- 
ceived a  thick  smoke  to  come  out  of  it,  which  mounted  to 
the  clouds,  and  extending  itself  along  the  sea  and  shore, 
formed  a  great  mist.  When  the  smoke  was  all  out  of  the 
vessel,  it  connected  itself  into  one  body  which  formed  an 
enormous  genie. 

At  the  sight  of  so  terrible  a  figure,  the  fisherman  would 
have  fled,  but  was  too  much  terrified.  "Solomon,  Solo- 
2*  B 


18  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

mon,  the  groat  prophet!"  exclaimed  the  genie,  "pardon, 
pardon,  pardon;  I  never  more  will  oppose  your  will!" 
The  fisherman  hearing  this  took  courage,  and  said,  "Thou 
proud  spirit,  what  is  it  thou  talkest  of?  it  is  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  ago  since  the  prophet  Solomon  died !  Tell  mo 
your  history,  and  how  you  came  to  be  shut  up  in  that 
vessel." 

The  genie  turning  to  his  deliverer,  with  a  fierce  look 
said,  "  Thou  art  very  bold  to  call  me  a  proud  spirit.  Speak 
to  me  more  civilly  before  I  kill  thee."  "  What,"  replied 
t  he  fisherman , "  would  you  kill  me  for  setting  you  at  liberty  ? 
Is  that  the  way  you  reward  the  service  I  have  done  you?" 
"I  cannot  treat  you  otherwise,"  replied  the  genie;  "and 
that  you  may  be  convinced  of  it,  listen  to  my  story :  I  am 
one  of  those  rebellious  spirits  who  opposed  themselves  to 
the  will  of  Heaven.  The  other  genii  owned  Solomon  the 
great  prophet,  and  submitted  to  him.  Sacar  and  I  only 
resisted.  That  potent  monarch  caused  me  to  be  seized 
and  brought  by  force  before  his  throne  !  when,  as  I  daringly 
persisted  in  my  disobedience,  he  shut  me  up  in  this  copper 
vessel;  and  that  I  might  not  escape,  he  himself  stamped 
his  seal,  with  the  great  name  of  God  engraven  on  it,  upon 
this  leaden  cover,  and  ordered  it  to  be  cast  into  the  midst 
of  the  sea. 

"During  the  first  century  of  my  imprisonment,  I  swore 
that  if  any  one  would  deliver  me  I  would  make  him  im- 
mensely rich.  During  the  second,  I  vowed  that  I  would 
open  all  the  treasures  of  the  earth  to  any  one  who  should 
set  me  free.  In  the  third,  I  promised  to  make  my  deliverer 
a  mighty  prince,  and  to  be  always  his  attendant  spirit. 
Many  centuries  passed  over,  and  I  continually  increased 
my  promises  to  him  who  should  render  me  so  essential  a 
service ;  but  all  in  vain ;  no  one  was  so  lucky  as  to  find  the 
coffer,  and  bj"  opening  it  to  obtain  the  rewards  I  had  bound 
myself  to  bestow.  At  last,  enraged  and  tired  with  so  long 
a  confinement,  I  vowed  that  if  any  one  should  set  me  at 
liberty,  I  would  kill  him  without  mercy ;  therefore,  as  you 
have  this  day  delivered  me,  prepare  yourself  to  die." 
This  discourse  terrified  the  poor  fisherman  beyond  raeas 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  19 

are;  but  as  necessity  is  the  parent  of  ingenuity,  he  ad- 
dressed the  genie  thus:  "If  it  must  be  so,  I  submit;  but 
before  I  die,  I  conjure  you  by  the  great  name  which  was 
engraven  on  the  seal  of  the  prophet  Solomon,  that  you 
grant  me  one  request,  in  return  for  the  service  I  have  done 
you,  which  you  have  obliged  yourself  to  repay  so  hardly." 
The  genie  trembled  at  the  adjuration,  and  answered  hastily^ 
"Ask  what  thou  wilt,  but  quickly." 

"  I  cannot  believe,"  said  the  fisherman,  "  that  you  were 
really  confined  in  that  vessel ;  it  will  not  hold  one  of  your 
feet.  I  adjure  you.  therefore,  by  the  oath  you  have  taken, 
to  enter  into  it  again,  that  I  may  be  convinced,  and  acquit 
you,  before  I  die,  of  ingratitude  and  murder." 

The  body  of  the  genie  instantly  dissolved,  and  changing 
into  a  mist,  extended  itself  as  before.  At  last  it  began  to 
enter  the  vessel,  which  it  continued  to  do,  by  a  slow  and 
equal  motion,  till  nothing  was  left  out;  and  immediately 
a  voice  came  forth,  which  said,  "  Well,  incredulous  fellow, 
I  am  in  the  vessel' now  ;  are  you  satisfied?" 

The.  fisherman  instantly  shut  down  the  cover;  "Now, 
genie,  it  is  thy  turn  to  entreat  in  vain.  I  will  return  thee 
to  the  sea  whence  I  took  thee,  and  will  erect  a  monument 
to  caution  other  fishermen  if  they  chance  to  meet  with 
thee,  that  they  may  be  aware  of  such  a  wicked  genie  as 
thou  art,  who  hast  sworn  to  kill  thy  deliverer ! "  .  The  genie 
endeavored  with  his  utmost  force  to  get  out  of  the  vessel 
again  ;  but  the  seal  of  Solomon  restrained  him.  Dissem- 
bling, therefore,  his  anger,  he  addressed  the  fisherman  in 
a  more  pleasant  tone  ;  begged  him  once  more  to  remove 
the  cover,  and  promised  to  reward  him  to  his  full  satisfac- 
tion. "Thou  art  a  traitor,"  replied  the  fisherman,  "and 
T  should  deserve  to  lose  my  life,  if  I  was  so  foolish  as  to 
trust  thee.  No  doubt  you  would  use  me  as  the  Grecian 
king  did  his  physician  Douban.  'T  is  a  story  I  have  a 
mind  to  tell  thee,  before  I  return  thee  to  the  faithless 
elen.ent  in  which  I  found  thee." 


80  ARABIAN    N1UHTS     ENTKRTAINMEjnxb. 


THE    STORY   OF    THE    GRECIAN    KING    AND    THE   PHYSICIAN 
DOUBAN. 

There  was  a  king  of  Greece  who  was  sorely  afflicted 
with  a  grievous  leprosy.  His  physicians  had  exerted  all 
their  art  in  vain  ;  his  case  was  declared  hopeless,  and  ha 
expected  every  day  to  sink  under  the  loathsome  disease 
which  oppressed  him.  At  this  time  there  came  to  his  court 
a  strange  phj^sician,  named  Douban,  who,  after  examining 
the  patient,  asserted  that,  so  far  from  the  king  being  in- 
curable,  he  would  undertake  to  restore  his  health  without 
either  inward  potions  or  outward  applications.  This  ex- 
traordinary proposal  was  readily  accepted.  The  physician 
prepared  a  racket,  and  besought  the  king  to  play  at  tennis 
with  it.  "I  have  lodged,"  said  he,  "certain  drugs  in  the 
handle,  which  is  hollow;  when  these  are  heated  they  will 
penetrate  3rour  majesty's  whole  frame  ;  leave  off  then  ; 
bathe,  and  retire  to  rest,  and  to-morrow  you  will  find  your- 
self perfectly  cured." 

The  king  followed  the  direction  of  Douban,  and  rose 
the  next  morning  entirely  free  from  his  malady.  The 
physician  was  invested  with  the  most  distinguished  hon- 
ors; the  king  loaded  him  also  with  riches,  and  the  court- 
iers with  caresses ;  he  became  the  declared  favorite ;  and 
every  one  who  had  a  suit  to  prefer  to  the  king,  solicited 
the  interest  of  the  physician. 

But  amid  all  his  prosperity  lurked  the  most  fatal  de- 
struction. The  Grecian  king  was  a  very  weak  prince, 
easily  irritated,  and  tyrannical  in  his  disposition.  His 
former  favorites  envied  Douban,  and  seized  every  oppor- 
tunity to  excite  distrust  of  him  in  the  royal  breast.  "  He 
is  become,"  said  they,  "  next  in  dignity  and  power  to  your- 
self; as  he  cured  you  in  a  manner  so  simple,  may  he  not 
also,  by  methods  as  unsuspected,  cut  off  your  majesty, 
who  alone  stands  between  him  and  the  throne?" 

For  a  long  time  the  Grecian  king  repelled  these  insinu- 
ations. "  Were  I  to  listen  to  you,"  said  he  to  his  court- 
iei's,  "I  should  be  like  a  certain  man  who  had  a  faithful 
parrot,  who  reported  to  him  the  incontinence  of  his  wife 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  2l 

during  his  absence.  The  wife,  enraged  at  the  tell-tale, 
contrived  a  method  of  destroying  the  credit  of  the  bird, 
and  being  revenged  at  the  same  time.  Accordingly,  when 
her  husband  went  another  journey,  she  caused  a  slave  to 
scatter  water  over  the  cage  all  night,  in  the  manner  of 
rain,  while  others  produced  ±he  appearance  of  thunder 
and  lightning.  The  next  day,  when'  the  husband  re- 
turned, the  parrot  complained  of  having  been  exposed 
all  night  to  the  fury  of  a  continual  storm.  As  the  master 
knew  the  wTeather  had  been  exceedingly  fine,  he  hastily 
concluded  that  his  bird  was  false,  and  in  resentment  put 
it  to  death  ;  but  the  future  ill  conduct  of  his  wife  too  soon 
proved  to  him  his  parrot's  truth  and  his  own  rashness." 

"Sir,"  replied  his  vizier,  "it  is  my  duty  to  be  particu- 
larly attentive  to  your  safety,  nor  must  I  suffer  you  to  be 
led  by  specious  appearances  into  real  danger.  The  vizier 
of  a  neighboring  king  was  intrusted  with  the  care  of  his 
master's  only  son,  and  so  ill  did  he  perform  that  duty, 
that  he  suffered  the  young  prince  to  separate  from  his 
train,  in  the  eagerness  of  the  chase,  till  he  was  left  alone, 
and  had  lost  his  way;  while  he  rode  about,  he  came  up  to 
a  handsome  lady  who  appeared  to  be  in  great  distress. 
The  prince  was  naturally  compassionate;  he  heard  her 
tale,  and  at  her  request  took  her  upon  his  horse,  which 
he  guided  by  her  direction.  They  came  at  length  to  the 
ruins  of  a  castle  in  a  lonely  place,  where  the  lady  desired 
him  to  alight;  he  obeyed.  The  lady  entered  the  ruins, 
and  while  he  was  securing  his  horse  he  heard  her  say 
softly,  "Be  glad,  my  children;  I  have  brought  you  a 
handsome  young  man,  very  fat."  Other  voices  immedi- 
ately answered,  "Mamma,  where  is  he?  let  us  eat  him 
presently,  for  we  are  very  hungry." 

The  prince  heard  enough  to  convince  him  of  his  danjrer. 
He  perceived  that  the  supposed  distressed  lady  was  really 
an  ogress,  wife  to  one  of  those  savage  demons  called 
ogres;  who  frequent  remote  places,  and  use  a  thousand 
wiles  to  surprise  and  devour  passengers.  He  began  to 
untie  his  horse  again  with  all  diligence,  putting  up  all  the 
while  prayers  to  heaven  for  his  deliverance.     The  ogress, 


22  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

returning  to  the  door,  never  doubted  but  be  was  still 
employed  in  fastening  his  horse,  and  hearing  him  utter 
prayers,  she  also  pretended  to  put  up  ejaculations;  but 
the  prince  was  not  to  be  deceived  by  this  hypocrisy. 
Having  loosened  the  rein,  he  leaped  upon  the  saddle,  and 
was  soon  out  of  the  monster's  power.  But  although  he 
escaped  unhurt,  his  royal  father  was  so  much  enraged  at 
the  danger  he  had  been  in,  that  he  very  justly  caused  his 
careless  vizier  to  be  put  to  death.  I  should  deserve  the 
same  punishment  if  I  did  not  protest  against  the  conduct 
of  Douban,  who,  though  as  specious  as  the  ogress,  may  be 
equally  dangerous. 

The  credulous  Grecian  king  began  at  length  to  listen  to 
these  insinuations;  which  the  vizier  observing,  so  inflamed 
his  passions,  that  he  caused  his  benefactor  to  be  seized, 
and  brought  into  his  presence  to  be  put  to  death.  Douban, 
astonished  at  so  fatal  a  denunciation,  solicited  earnestly 
for  mercy,  but  in  vain. 

"You  see,"  said  the  fisherman  to  the  genie,  "how  the 
king  treated  his  benefactor.  So  have  you  also  behaved 
to  me." 

When  Douban  found  himself  in  the  hands  of  the  execu- 
tioner, he  once  more  applied  himself  to  the  king,  request- 
ing he  would,  at  least,  allow  him  to  live  till  the  next  day. 
"  I  have,"  said  he  to  the  cruel  prince,  "  among  my  books, 
one  well  worthy  of  your  majesty's  acceptance:  if,  when 
my  head  is  struck  off,  you  will  open  the  book  at  the  sixth 
leaf,  and  read  the  third  line,  my  head  will  answer  any 
question  you  shall  ask."  The  king,  though  insensible  to 
pity  or  to  gratitude,  was  moved  bj  a  frivolous  curiosity  to 
defer  the  execution. 

The  following  day,  when  Douban  was  brought  into  the 
royal  presence,  he  renewed  his  supplication  for  life;  re- 
minded the  king  of  his  services,  and  in  the  most  earnest 
manner  protested  his  innocence.  The  unworthy  prince 
told  him  plainly,  that  all  he  could  say  was  in  vain  :  "  Were 
it  only,"  continued  he,  "to  hear  your  head  speak  after  it 
is  cut  off,  it  is  my  pleasure  you  should  be  put  to  death." 
The  physician,  seeing  his  fate  inevitable,  submitted.     Ho 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  23 

presented  a  large  folio  to  the  king:  "Place  my  head," 
said  he,  "for  a  moment  on  the  cover  of  this  book,  and  I 
shall  be  in  a  condition  to  answer  your  questions."  The 
executioner  performed  his  office ;  and  the  head  being 
placed  as  directed,  the  blood  stanched,  the  eyes  opened, 
and  it  called  upon  the  king  to  open  the  book. 

The  king  obeyred,  but  finding  the  leaves  stick  together, 
he  put  his  finger  to  his  mouth  and  wetted  it  to  separate 
them.  When  he  came  to  the  sixth  leaf,  he  said,  "  Plvysi- 
cian,  there  is  nothing  written  here !"  "  Turn  over  leaf  by 
leaf,"  said  the  head,  "  till  you  come  to  the  writing."  The 
king  continued  to  turn  over  the  leaves,  putting  his  finger 
continually  to  his  mouth,  till  the  poison  with  which  each 
leaf  was  impregnated  took  effect.  The*  head,  perceiving 
that  the  king  had  but  few  moments  to  live,  exclaimed, 
"Tyrant,  you  are  justly  punished!"  Having  said  this, 
its  eyes  closed,  and  it  remained  without  life.  The  king 
also,  in  a  short  time,  fell  down  and  expired. 

"  You  find,  genie,"  said  the  fisherman,  "that,  though  the 
physician  could  not  preserve  his  life,  he  contrived  to  punish 
his  ungrateful  murderer.  I  am  more  fortunate  in  being  now 
out  of  your  power,  and  having  you  in  mine.  I  am  now 
about  to  return  you  to  the  sea."  "  My  good  friend,"  replied 
the  genie,  "remember,  revenge  is  forbidden;  do  not  treat 
me  as  Imama  did  Atteca."  "How  was  that?"  asked  the 
fisherman.  "  Ho  ! "  replied  the  genie,  "  do  you  think  I  can 
tell  stories  in  this  confinement  ?  Let  me  out,  and  I  will 
toll  you  as  many  as  you  please."  "  No,"  said  the  fisher- 
man, "  I  will  not  let  you  out ;  on  the  contrary,  I  will  this 
moment  cast  }^ou  back  into  the  sea."  "  Hear  me,  I  charge 
thee,"  exclaimed  the  genie,  "if  thou  wilt  deliver  me,  I 
swear,  in  the  most  solemn  manner,  that  I  will  not  hurt 
thee  ;  on  the  contrary,  I  will  teach  thee  how  to  become 
is  rich  as  thou  desirest  to  be." 

Overcome  by  this  promise,  the  fisherman  once  more 
opened  the  vessel;  and  the  genie,  resuming  his  form,  in- 
stantly kicked  it  into  the  sea.  The  fisherman  was  alarmed 
at  this  action,  but  the  genie  assured  him  he  was  safe.  He 
then  led  him  up  a  mountain,  from  whence  they  descended 


24  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  a  great  pond,  that  lay  between  four  hills.  "  Cast  in  thy 
nets  here,"  said  the  genie,  "  and  carry  the  fish  thou  shalt 
take  to  the  sultan,  who  will  liberally  reward  thee;  only 
beware  not  to  throw  in  thy  nets  more  than  once  a  day, 
or  thou  wilt  repent  it."  Having  said  this,  the  genie  dis- 
appeared 

The  fisherman  immediately  threw  in  his  nets;  but  though 
the  pond  seemed  to  abound  with  fish,  he  caught  only  four. 
He  was  much  pleased  to  find  them  unusually  beautiful, 
and  each  of  a  different  color :  one  being  white,  one  red,  one 
blue,  and  one  yellow.  Having  much  admired  them,  he 
set  off  for  the  palace,  to  present  them  to  the  sultan.  The 
singular  beauty  of  the  fish  made  them  very  acceptable  ; 
the  liberal  prince  rewarded  the  fisherman  with  four  hun- 
dred pieces  of  gold,  and  ordered  them  to  be  served  as  a 
part  of  the  entertainment  of  the  day. 

But  an  amazing  prodigy  disappointed  the  sultan.  As 
the  cook  was  frying  the  fish,  on  turning  them,  the  wall  of 
the  kitchen  opened,  and  a  beautiful  young  lady  entered, 
holding  a  rod  of  myrtle  in  her  hand  ;  and  advancing  to  the 
pan,  she  struck  one  of  the  fish,  saying,  "Fish,  fish,  are  ye 
in  your  duty?"  when  the  four  fish  lifting  up  their  heads 
together,  said,  "Yes,  yes,  if  you  reckon,  we  reckon;  if  you 
fly,  we  overcome,  and  are  content."  As  soon  as  they  had 
thus  spoken,  the  lady  overturned  the  frying-pan,  and 
passed  again  through  the  wall,  which  closed  immediately 
and  became  as  before. 

The  cook  was  exceedingly  terrified  ;  but  recovering  her- 
self, and  picking  up  the  fish,  she  had  the  misfortune  to 
find  that  they  were  burnt  to  a  cinder,  and  utterly  unfit  to 
be  served  at  the  royal  table.  She  was  under  the  necessity 
of  relating  the  phenomenon  to  the  vizier.  That  minister 
invented  an  excuse,  which  satisfied  the  sultan  ;  but  being 
very  desirous  of  seeing  so  strange  a  scene,  he  ordered  the 
fisherman  to  provide  him  four  other  fish,  of  the  same  sort, 
as  soon  as  possible. 

The  day  following  the  fisherman  obeyed  the  vizier's 
orders,  and  to  his  great  joy  received  another  four  hundred 
pieces  of  gold.     The  vizier  shut  himself  up  with  the  cook, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  25 

who  placed  the  fish  on  the  fire,  and  on  turning  them,  when 
fried  on  one  side,  the  wall  again  opened,  the  lady  appeared, 
the  same  dialogue  passed  between  her  and  the  fish  ;  when, 
having  overturned  the  pan,  she  retired,  and  the  wall  closed 
as  on  the  preceding  day. 

The  vizier,  astonished  beyond  measure  at  so  great  a 
prodigy,  failed  not  to  relate  the  matter  to  the  sultan. 
That  prince  was  equally  surprised,  and  impatient  to  see- 
so  strange  a  scene  himself.  The  fisherman  provided  four 
more  fish  on  the  following  day,  and  again  received  a  sum 
which  was  to  him  quite  a  treasure.  The  sultan,  attended 
by  his  vizier,  retired  into  his  closet;  the  fish  were  placed 
on  the  fire,  and  on  turning  them  the  wall  opened  ;  but  in- 
stead of  the  young  lady,  there  came  out  a  gigantic  black, 
in  the  habit  of  a  slave,  who  advanced  with  an  air  of  anger 
to  the  pan,  and  touching  one  of  the  fish,  said,  in  a  terrible 
voice,  "  Fish,  are  ye  in  your  duty  ?"  At  these  words  the 
fish  raised  up  their  heads,  and  answered,  "  Yes,  yes,  we  are ; 
if  you  reckon,  we  reckon  ;  if  you  pay  your  debts,  we  pf.y 
ours ;  if  you  fly,  we  overcome,  and  are  content."  Too 
black  then  threw  the  pan  into  the  middle  of  the  closet,  «nd 
the  fish  were  reduced  to  coal.  Having  done  this,  he  rei.red 
fiercely,  and  the  wall  shut,  and  remained  as  before. 

When  the  sultan  recovered  from  his  astonishment,  he 
sent  for  the  fisherman,  to  know  where  he  caught  these 
extraordinary  fish ;  and  finding  it  was  near  the  city,  he 
ordered  his  usual  retinue,  and  set  off  immediately.  On 
ascending  the  mountain,  the  pond  and  an  immense  plain 
beyond  it  presented  themselves,  which  no  one  remembered 
to  have  seen  before.  The  sultan  ordered  his  court  to  en- 
camp by  the  side  of  the  pond,  and  retired  to  his  pavilion 
with  his  vizier.  To  him  the  sultan  declared  his  resolution 
of  exploring,  alone,  this  new-discovered  plain,  in  hopes  of 
finding  out  the  cause  of  so  many  wonderful  events.  He 
commanded  the  vizier  to  detain  his  attendants  on  that 
spot,  and  to  excuse  to  them  his  not  appearing,  under  the 
pretence  of  his  being  indisposed. 

At  the  dawn  of  the  morning,  the  sultan  set  forward,  and 
by  sunrise  he  saw  before  him  a  great  building,  which 
3 


20  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

proved  to  be  a  magnificent  palace  of  blac 's.  marble.  As  the 
gates  were  open,  the  prince  entered,  but  met  noi  any 
living  creature.  He  wandered  through  many  spacious 
apartments,  all  furnished  in  the  most  splendid  manner, 
and  kept  in  the  most  exact  order.  He  called  out  aloud, 
but  no  one  answered.  After  walking  about  a  long  time, 
he  grew  weary;  and  sitting  down,  was  beginning  to  re- 
flect on  the  wonders  which  had  happened,  when  he  was 
interrupted  by  the  voice  of  one  complaining.  He  listened 
attentively;  and  following  the  sound  he  came  to  a  mag- 
nificent hall,  at  the  upper  end  of  which,  on  a  throne  of 
burnished  gold,  sat  a  handsome  young  man,  richly  habited 
in  regal  attire,  but  oppressed  with  the  deepest  melancholy. 
As  the  sultan  drew  near,  he  saluted  him.  The  young 
prince  returned  the  salute,  by  bowing  his  head.  "  I  ought 
to  rise,  sir,"  said  he  to  the  sultan,  "  to  receive  you ;  but, 
alas !  I  can  but  too  well  apologize  for  continuing  in  this 
posture."  Saying  this,  he  drew  aside  his  robe,  and  dis- 
covered to  the  sultan  that  he  was  only  a  man  from  the 
head  to  the  girdle,  and  that  the  other  part  of  his  body 
was  black  marble. 

"What  you  show  me,"  said  the  sultan,  "fills  me  with 
grief  and  horror.  1  conjure  you,  most  unfortunate  prince, 
to  relate  to  me  by  what  accident  you  have  been  reduced  to 
your  present  situation.  I  am  persuaded  your  story  is 
somehow  connected  with  certain  extraordinary  events 
which  have  occurred  to  me  lately.  Perhaps  fortune  has 
led  me  hither  to  he  of  service  to  you." 

"Alas!"  replied  the  young  man,  "I  have  no  hope  of 
relief;  yet,  though  I  must  renew  my  grief  by  repeating 
my  story,  your  appearance,  as  well  as  your  offers  of  assist- 
ance, entitle  you  to  compliance." 

THE    HISTORY    OF   THE    KING   OF   THE    BLACK    ISLES. 

"I  succeeded  my  father  to  the  throne  of  the  Black  Isles 
a  few  years  ago,  and  invited  to  share  it  with  me  a  young 
lady  whom  I  had  loved  from  my  earliest  infancy.  She 
was  my  cousin;  we  were  bred  up  together;  and  I  had 
every  reason  to  suppose  I  was  equally  dear  to  her.     After 


AltABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  27 

a  short  time  I  found  a  visible  coolness  in  the  queen's 
behavior,  which  afflicted  me  the  more  as  it  seemed  to 
increase  daily,  and  I  could  no  way  account  for  it. 

"  li  chanced,  as  I  was  reposing  on  a  sofa,  two  of  her 
attendants  came  into  the  room,  and  supposing  me  asleep, 
one  of  them  said  to  the  other,  '  Is  not  the  queen  much  to 
blame  to  treat  this  amiable  prince  so  ill  ?  I  wonder  he  does 
not  discover  her  enormities.'  'You  do  not  know,  then,' 
replied  the  other,  'that  every  evening  she  mixes  in  his 
drink  the  juice  of  a  certain  herb,  which  causes  him  to  sleep, 
till  by  applying  another  herb  to  his  nose  she  awakens  him. 
"lis  by  this  means  she  escapes  detection.' 

"  Though  I  was  much  alarmed  at  this  discourse,  I  still 
appeared  to  sleep.  In  the  evening  I  supped  with  the 
queen;  but  when  she  presented  me,  before  we  retired, 
with  a  cup,  I  only  pretended  to  drink,  and  holding  it  to 
my  mouth  some  time,  I  returned  it  to  her  untasted.  We 
withdrew  to  our  chamber,  where,  as  soon  as  I  lay  down 
on  the  bed,  I  pretended  to  fall  into  a  deep  sleep.  The 
queen  immediately  arose,  dressed  herself,  and  having  said 
to  me,  '  Sleep,  and  may  you  never  awake  again  !'  went  out 
of  the  chamber. 

"I  was  ready  to  follow  her  in  an  instant.  She  went  to 
a  little  grove  adjoining  the  garden,  where  a  man  was 
waiting  for  her.  I  reached  the  grove  unobserved,  and 
concealed  myself  behind  a  tree  ;  I  listened  to  their  conver- 
sation, and  found  that  she  seemed  to  lavish  her  fondness 
on  one  who  heard  her  very  coolly.  Enraged  that  she 
••mould  treat  me  so  unworthily,  I  resolved  to  be  revenged 
rm  her  minion.  According^,  when  they  had  passed  me, 
'■  gave  him  a  violent  blow  on  the  neck  with  my  scimitar, 
which  brought  him  to  the  ground.  I  supposed  he  was 
slain;  and  not  caring  to  come  to  extremities  with  the 
queen,  I  retired  in  haste,  without  discovering  myself,  and 
returned  immediately  to  my  chamber.  In  the  morning  I 
found  my  wife  lying  by  me  as  usual,  but  she  either  was, 
or  pretended  to  be,  in  a  profound  sleep,  so  that  I  arose 
and  went  to  council  without  having  spoken  to  her. 

"  At   dinner-time  she  presented   herself  to  me,  clad  id 


28  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

mourniag,  and  expressed  the  utmost  affliction.  '  Alas,  sir, 
Baid  sh3,  '  I  am  oppressed  with  the  most  cruel  misfortunes. 
I  have  just  heard  of  the  death  of  my  royal  mother;  and 
that  the  king,  my  father,  has  lost  a  battle,  in  which  he 
and  one  of  my  brothers  have  fallen.  Suffer  me  to  retire 
for  a  twelvemonth  to  the  Palace  of  Tears,  that  I  may  pay 
a  proper  tribute  to  their  memory.' 

"I  was  not  sorry  she  thus  disguised  the  true  cause  of 
her  grief;  and  readily  gave  her  the  permission  she  desired. 
She  withdrew  accordingly  to  that  palace;  and  thither  I 
found  out  she  conveyed  her  gallant.  The  wound  I  had 
given  him  would  have  been  mortal,  had  she  not  preserved 
him  by  a  drink,  which  she  prepared  and  administered  to 
him  herself,  every  day.  But  though  she  was  able  by  this 
means  to  keep  him  alive,  yet  she  could  neither  cure  him, 
nor  restore  his  faculties:  he  lives,  indeed,  but  he  can  nei- 
ther walk,  move,  nor  speak ;  his  ej^es  alone  give  signs  of 
existence,  but  not  of  sensibility. 

"I  hoped  that  time  would  have  removed  the  queen's 
sorrow.  I  suffered  her,  therefore,  to  continue  this  course 
without  interruption  ;  but  when,  at  the  end  of  two  years, 
I  found  that  her  criminal  affliction  was  still  cherished,  I 
fatally  resolved  to  let  her  know  I  was  not  unacquainted 
with  the  real  source  of  it.  I  concealed  myself  behind  the 
tomb  which  she  had  erected  for  her  gallant,  and  became 
a  witness  of  her  ungovernable  folly.  The  fondness  she 
lavished  on  him  was  excessive ;  nor  would  it  have  been 
excusable  had  he  been  in  perfect  health.  For  this  adored 
lover,  this  minion,  thus  doated  on,  was  a  black  Indian, 
and,  as  I  was  well  informed,  as  disgusting  in  his  manners 
as  in  his  person.  'Alas!'  exclaimed  she,  'tis  now  two 
years  since  you  have  spoken  to  me ;  you  return  no  answer 
to  the  many  proofs  of  love  I  give  you.  Is  it  from  the  ef- 
fect of  your  barbarous  wound,  or  from  contempt,  that  you 
are  thus  silent?  O  tomb,  have  you  swallowed  up  the 
affection  he  had  for  me?'  Enraged  at  these  lamentations, 
I  discovered  myself  all  at  once,  and  reproached  her  with 
tbo  utmost  severity.  She  heard  me  at  first  in  silence  and 
confuron;  but  when  I  not  only  declared  myself  the  pun- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAIN  MENTS.  5J9 

isher  of  her  gallant,  but  drew  my  scimitar  to  Ukc  away 
the  remains  of  bis  life,  her  shame  turned  to  rage;  she  in- 
stantly began  to  repeat  enchantments,  and  pronouncing 
certain  words  I  did  not  understand,  1  became,  as  you  see 
me,  half  marble,  half  man. 

"Nor  did  I  alone  fall  a  sacrifice  to  the  revenge  of  this 
wicked  woman.  By  the  force  of  her  incantations  she 
transformed  my  whole  territory.  The  four  islands  which  I 
reigned  over,  are  become  the  four  hills  you  passed ;  my  cap- 
ital city  is  changed  to  a  pond;  and  my  people  are  turned 
into  fishes  of  various  colors  :  the  Mussulmans  being  white; 
the  Persians,  who  adore  fire,  red;  the  Christians,  blue; 
and  the  Jews,  yellow.  This  I  learned  from  her  rage  and 
reproaches ;  for  she  is  not  satisfied  with  the  evils  I  now 
suffer,  but  every  day  she  comes  here,  and  gratifies  her 
malice  by  invectives,  and  even  by  blows,  which  I  have  no 
power  to  resist." 

The  young  king  having  finished  his  story,  became  over- 
powered with  grief.  The  sultan  did  his  utmost  to  console 
him.  In  answer  to  the  further  inquiries  of  his  visitor, 
the  king  informed  him  that  the  Palace  of  Tears  was  ad- 
joining to  the  hall  they  were  in  ;  that  the  enchantress 
visited  the  palace  every  morning  at  break  of  day,  when 
she  first  exercised  her  cruelty  on  him,  and  then  attended 
her  gallant,  with  the  drink  which  preserved  him  from 
d}ring,  and  bewTailed  over  him  his  helpless  condition. 

The  sultan  having  revolved  these  matters  in  his  mind, 
took  leave  of  the  unhappy  king,  when  he  found  he  was  a 
little  composed,  without  acquainting  him  with  his  inten- 
tion, lest  a  disappointment  should  aggravate  his  affliction. 
He  found  out  the  Palace  of  Tears,  and  as  soon  as  he  came 
to  the  bed  where  the  black  lay,  he  put  him  to  death,  and 
dragging  his  body  into  the  court  of  the  palace,  threw  it 
into  a  well.  He  then  laid  aside  his  upper  garment,  and 
having  blackened  his  hands,  face,  and  neck,  and  taken  his 
scimitar  with  him,  he  lay  down  on  the  bed  in  the  same 
posture  in  which  he  had  found  the  black. 

He  passed  the  night  without  sleeping,  his  whole  -thoughts 
being  occupied  with  the  affair  he  was  engaged  in.  At  day- 
3* 


SO  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMEx'fTS. 

break  the  loud  lamentations  of  the  unfortunate  king,  and 
the  severe  blows  he  heard  inflicted  on  him,  gave  him  no- 
tice that  the  wicked  enchantress  was  at  hand.  The  poor 
prince  filled  the  palace  with  his  outcries,  and  in  vain  be- 
sought her,  in  the  most  affecting  manner,  to  have  pity  on 
him.  Having  gratified  her  cruelty,  she  left  him;  and 
entering  the  Palace  of  Tears,  began,  in  her  turn,  to  use 
the  language  of  affliction.  "  Alas  !"  exclaimed  she,  as  she 
approached  the  bed  on  which  her  supposed  lover  lay; 
"can  I  ever  sufficiently  revenge  the  miseries  I  suffer? 
To  whose  jealousy  and  cruelty  do  I  owe  the  wretched 
situation  of  my  adored  lover?  Alas!  my  life,  my  love," 
continued  she,  addressing  herself,  as  she  supposed,  to  the 
black,  "  will  you  never  be  delivered  from  this  state  of  in- 
sensibility and  silence?  Will  you  no  more  be  able  to  tell 
me  how  much  you  love  me  ?  " 

The  sultan  affected  to  awaken  slowly,  as  from  a  deep 
sleep.  At  last,  heaving  a  sigh,  and  imitating  the  accent 
of  the  blacks,  he  said,  "There  is  no  force,  or  power,  but  in 
God  alone,  who  is  almighty."  The  enchantress,  on  hear- 
ing these  words,  gave  an  excessive  shout  for  joy;  when 
the  sultan,  turning  toward  her,  said,  "Unhappy  queen 
if  thou  wouldst  have  my  recovery  complete,  restore  thy 
husband,  and  cease  to  treat  him  with  indignity."  The 
fond  enchantress  flew  to  the  hall,  and  taking  a  cup  of 
water,  pronounced  certain  words  over  it,  which  caused  it 
to  boil,  then  throwing  it  on  the  young  king,  she  said,  "If 
thou  art  in  thy  present  state  by  the  force  of  my  enchant- 
ments, resume  thy  natural  powers."  On  her  uttering  these 
words,  the  prince  instantly  found  himself  restored  ;  the 
joy  he  felt  was  scarcely  allayed  by  the  insolence  of  his 
enemy,  who  directed  him,  in  the  haughtiest  manner,  to 
leave  the  palace  immediately,  and  be  seen  there  no  more 
on  pain  of  death. 

The  enchantress  returned  with  impatience  to  her  sup 
posed  lover,  and  was  delighted  to  find  him  appear  much 
better.  As  she  was  hastening  toward  him,  the  sultan 
cried  out,  "Stop,  wretched  lady;  if  thou  approachest 
Dearer  to  me,  I  s.iall  relapse  into  my  former  state  of  in. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  31 

sensibility ;  my  recovery  cannot  be  perfect  until  tbou  nast 
reversed  all  tby  enchantments,  which  have  produced  Ju'ch 
fatal  consequences  to  tby  busband's  subjects  and  territory." 

The  enchantress,  elated  with  joy  and  hope,  immediately 
withdrew,  and  in  a  few  minutes  dissolved  all  her  spells, 
and  restored  everything  to  its  former 'condition.  The 
fishes  became  men  ;  the  houses  and  shops  were  again  filled 
with  their  inhabitants;  and  the  sultan's  retinue  were  as- 
tonished to  find  themselves  in  the  middle  of  a  large  and 
populous  city. 

The  wicked  magician  hastened  back  to  the  Palace  of 
Tears,  and  was  transported  to  see  her  supposed  lover  sit- 
ting on  the  bed.  Fearing,  however,  to  approach  him  too 
hastily,  she  restrained  herself,  and  said,  "  I  have  in  all 
things  obeyed  you;  I  have  restored  to  its  first  state  every- 
thing that  I  had  transformed."  " 'T  is  well,"  replied  the 
sultan,  rising  up,  and  going  toward  her;  "  come  now,  and 
receive  the  reward  thou  hast  deserved."  As  she  flew  to 
meet  him,  he,  with  one  blow  of  his  scimitar,  put  an  end  to 
her  life,  at  once  punishing  her  past  crimes,  and  prevent- 
ing  her  repeating  them. 

The  joy  of  the  king  and  people  of  the  Black  Isles,  on 
their  deliverance,  was  extreme.  The  sultan  heartily  con- 
gratulated the  king,  inviting  him  at  the  same  time  to  pass 
a  few  days  in  his  capital,  which  they  might  reach  in  a 
few  hours'  ride,  but  the  king  of  the  isles  undeceived  him. 
"Though,"  said  he,  "you  came  hither  in  that  time,  yet 
now  the  enchantment  is  ended,  you  will  find  it  several 
months'  journey  to  the  confines  of  your  dominions.  I 
will,  however,  readily  attend  you,  and  ever  acknowledge 
my  obligation  to  you  to  the  last  moment  of  my  life." 

Accordingly,  after  a  few  days'  repose,  the  young  king 
added  a  hundred  camels,  laden  with  inestimable  riches, 
to  the  retinue  of  the  sultan  ;  and  joining  the  same  with 
many  of  his  nobles,  he  conducted  that  prince  to  his  capi- 
tal, where  the}^  were  received  by  the  faithful  inhabitants 
with  the  loudest  acclamations. 

Nor  was  the  fisherman  forgot.  As  he  was  the  cause  of 
the  discovery,  the  si  ltan  gave  him  a  plentiful  estate,  which 
abundantly  gratified  his  utmost  wishes. 


32  ARAB  TAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

THE    STORY  OF  THE    THREE    CALENDARS,  SONS   OP    K1NG3_  AND 
OF    THE    FIVE    LADIES    OF    BAGDAD. 

In  the  reign  of  Caliph  Haroun  Alrasehid  there  was  at 
Bagdad  a  porter  who  was  remarkable  for  his  wit  and  good 
humor.  One  day,  as  he  was  waiting  for  employment,  a 
young  and  handsome  lad}7  called  to  him.  The  porter  was 
so  struck  with  her  appearance  and  affability,  that  he  fol- 
lowed her  with  joy,  and  exclaimed,  "  O  happy  day  !  a  day 
of  good  luck !  " 

The  lady  knocked  at  a  gate,  and  a  Christian  of  vener- 
able appearance  opened  it.  She  put  money  into  his  hand, 
without  speaking  a  word ;  when  he,  knowing  what  she 
wanted,  brought  her  a  large  ^ottle  of  wine,  which  the  por- 
ter put  into  his  basket.  From  thence  they  proceeded  to 
the  different  dealers  in  provisions,  fruits,  and  perfumes,  till 
the  basket  was  quite  full.  Meantime,  the  porter,  by  his 
ready  wit  and  cheerful  obedience,  ingratiated  himself 
very  much  into  the  lady's  favor.  Having  finished  their 
marketing,  they  arrived  at  a  handsome  house,  where  the 
lad}7,  whose  name  was  Amine,  caused  the  porter  to  take 
the  provisions  from  his  basket,  for  the  inspection  of  her 
sisters,  Zobeide  and  Safie. 

The  porter  having  delivered  his  load,  was  handsomely 
paid,  but  instead  of  retiring,  as  he  ought  to  have  done, 
he  continued  lingering  in  the  presence  of  the  ladies.  Zo- 
beide, supposing  him  not  satisfied  with  his  pay,  offered  to 
j;ive  him  more.  "  I  am  over-paid  already,  madam,"  replied 
he,  "  and  am  sensible  I  ought  not  to  have  stayed  here  so 
Long.  But,  permit  me  to  say,  I  am  surprised  to  see  no 
man  in  company  with  such  beautiful  ladies;  joxi  know 
the  company  of  women  without  men  is  as  dull  as  the 
company  of  men  without  women.  Besides,  the  Bagdad 
proverb  is  allowed  to  be  a  good  one,  which  says,  'One 
is  never  well  at  table,  except  there  be  four  in  company.'" 

The  ladies  laughed  heartily  at  this  discourse  of  the 
porter,  who,  encouraged  by  their  good  humor,  pressed 
his  suit  in  such  sprightly  tei-ms,  that  convinced  them  that 
his  education  had   been  above  his  condi  ion.     Notwith- 


ARABIAN    NIGilTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  33 

standing  which,  Zobeidc,  recovering  her  serious  air,  was 
about  to  reprimand  his  presumption,  when  Amine  inter- 
fered, and  besought  her  sisters  to  let  him  stay  and  share 
their  entertainment.  The  porter  could  not  restrain  his 
Joy  on  their  consenting ;  he  would  have  restored  the 
money  he  had  received,  but  the  grave  Zobeide  ordered 
him  to  keep  it.  "  That  which  we  have  once  given,"  said 
she,  "  to  reward  those  who  have  served  us,  we  never  take 
again." 

They  sat  down  to  their  repast  together.  After  they 
had  eaten  a  little,  Amine  took  a  cup,  tilled  out  wine,  and 
drank  first  herself,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  Arabians; 
she  then  filled  the  cup  for  her  sisters,  and  last  for  the 
porter,  who,  ad  he  received  it,  kissed  her  hand,  and,  before 
he  drank,  sung  a  song  to  this  purpose  :  "  That  as  the  wind 
brings  along  with  it  the  sweet  scent  of  the  perfumed 
places  through  which  it  passes,  so  the  wine  he  was  going 
to  drink,  coming  from  her  fair  hand,  received  a  more  ex- 
quisite taste  than  what  it  had  of  itself."  This  song  pleased 
the  ladies  highly,  and  the  time  they  w^ere  at  dinner  passed 
away  very  pleasantly;  after  which,  Safie  reminded  the 
porter  that  it  was  time  for  him  to  depart.  He  received 
this  hint  with  visible  reluctance,  and  Amine  once  more 
became  his  advocate  with  her  sisters;  who,  to  oblige  her 
readily  agreed  he  should  continue  till  evening. 

Zobeide,  having  signified  their  consent,  turned  to  the 
porter  and  said,  "One  condition  you  must  carefully  ob- 
serve :  that  whatsoever  we  do  in  your  presence,  you  take 
heed  not  to  inquire  the  reason  of,  nor  presume  to  dive 
into  the  motive  of  our  actions.  That  you  ma}'  perceive 
this  is  an  invariable  rule  with  us,  rise  up,  and  read  what 
is  written  over  our  gate,  and  then  you  may  stay."  The 
porter,  having  read  there  this  sentence  in  golden  letters, 

"  HE  WHO  SPEAKS  OF  THINGS  THAT  DO  NOT  CONCERN  HIM, 
SHALL  HEAR  OF  THINGS  THAT  WILL  NOT  PLEASE  HIM  "  re- 
plied, "  I  give  you  my  oath,  ladies,  that  you  shall  i  ever 
hear  me  speak  o'f  anything  which  does  not  concern  me, 
or  wherein  you  have  any  concern." 

During  supper  they  sang,  and   repeated   verses.     The 


34  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ladies  took  pleasure  in  fuddling  the  porter,  while  they  iD 
vited  him  to  drink  their  healths ;  mirth  and  good  humor 
abounded,  when  they  were  interrupted  by  a  loud  knock 
ing  at  the  gate. 

Safie  withdrew  to  inquire  the  cause,  and  presently  re- 
turning, acquainted  her  sisters  that  three  calendars  were 
at  the  gate,  who  earnestly  solicited  to  be  received  into 
the  house,  or  even  admitted  within  the  porch,  for  one  night, 
oeing  all  strangers,  just  arrived  at  Bagdad ;  Safie  added 
that  they  were  young,  handsome,  and  of  good  address; 
though  each  of  them  was  deprived  of  his  right  eye.  Zo- 
beide  and  Amine,  finding  Safie  was  desirous  they  should 
be  entertained,  desired  her  to  introduce  them;  but  to  be 
very  explicit  in  telling  them  the  terms  on  which  they  were 
admitted. 

Safie  according^  led  them  in,  after  having  shown  them 
the  writing  over  the  gate,  and  laid  the  same  injunctions 
on  them  that  the  porter  had  received,  to  which  they  each 
promised  exact  obedience.  Having  paid  their  respects  to 
the  ladies,  one  of  them  cast  his  eye  upon  the  porter,  who 
was  clad  much  like  those  calendars  who  neither  shave 
their  beards  nor  eyebrows,  and  exclaimed,  "  See,  we  have 
got  one  of  our  revolted  Arabian  brethren  I" 

The  porter,  who  was  half  asleep,  and  warm  with  wine, 
was  affronted  at  these  words ;  and  with  a  fierce  look,  an- 
swered, "  Sit  you  down,  and  do  not  meddle  with  what  does 
not  concern  you  :  have  you  not  read  the  inscription  over  the 
gate  ?  do  not  pretend  to  make  people  live  after  your  fashion, 
but  follow  ours."  The  calendar  apologized  to  the  captious 
porter,  and  the  ladies  interposing,  pacified  him.  After  the 
strangers  had  received  suitable  refreshment,  various  in- 
struments of  music  were  introduced  j  the  ladies  each  t^ok 
one,  the  calendars  did  the  same,  and  began  a  concert  of 
music,  which  was  interrupted  by  another  loud  knocking. 

The  caliph  Haroun  Alraschid  was  accustomed  to  walk 
abroad  in  disguise  very  often  by  night,  accompanied  by 
G-iafar,  his  grand  vizier,  and  Mesrour,  chief  of  the  eunuchs, 
to  inspect  into  the  order  of  the  city,  and  see  that  the  duty 
of  the  magistrates  was   properly  executed.     Pass.ng    by 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  35 

the  palace  of  the  ladies,  he  heard  the  sound  of  music  and 
jollity,  and  chose  to  inquire  into  the  reason  of  it.  The 
vizier  represented  to  him  that  it  was  not  yet  an  unlawful 
hour,  and  that  by  disturbing  their  mirth,  in  that  disguise, 
ne  would  probably  expose  himself  to  insult;  but  the  im- 
patient caliph  put  an  end  to  his  remonstrances,  by  ordering 
him  to  knock  loudly  at  the  gate.  On  Safie  appearing, 
Giafar  represented  to  her  that  they  were  Maussol  mer- 
chants, strangers  in  Bagdad,  who  having  rambled  a  con- 
siderable way  from  their  khan  (or  inn),  were  at  a  loss  to 
And  it ;  they  therefore  besought  from  their  hospitality  the 
favor  of  passing  the  night  under  their  protection. 

The  ladies,  having  already  admitted  the  calendars,  made 
no  hesitation  to  receive  also  these  pretended  merchants. 
The  customary  caution  of  the  family  was  given  to  them, 
which  they  promised  to  observe  ;  the  diversions  were  re- 
sumed ;  the  calendars  arose  and  danced  after  their  manner, 
and  every  one  endeavored  to  contribute  to  the  pleasure  of 
the  company. 

After  some  time,  Zobeide  arose,  and  taking  Amine  by 
the  hand,  said,  with  a  sigh,  "Sister,  it  grows  late;  it  is 
time  for  us  to  proceed  to  what  we  are  wont  to  do.  The 
company  are  properly  cautioned,  therefore  their  presence 
need  not  delay  a  business  which  must  not  be  dispensed 
with." 

Amine  withdrew,  and  returned  immediately,  leading  two 
black  bitches,  which  appeared  to  have  been  severely  beaten. 
She  delivered  the  chain  of  one  to  the  porter,  and  led  the 
other  into  the  middle  of  the  room.  Zobeide  appeared 
much  distressed ;  but  receiving  the  bitch  from  her  sister, 
she  said,  "  Alas  !  we  must  perform  our  duty  !"  The  bitch 
at  the  same  time  began  to  cry,  and  holding  up  her  head, 
in  an  entreating  manner,  to  supplicate  compassion.  Zo- 
beide, notwithstanding,  having  received  rods,  disregarded 
her  cries,  and  whipped  her  for  a  long  time,  with  great 
severity;  after  which  she  flung  away  the  rods  with  indig- 
nation, raised  up  the  streaming  animal  by  the  paws,  wept 
over  her,  and  having  wiped  the  tears  from  the  ej^es  of  the 
bitch,  she  kissed  \  jr  and  delivered  her  to  Amine,  who  led 


36  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

her  away.  She  then  received  the  other  b  tch  iron..  th« 
porter,  and  treated  her  in  the  same  manner;  discovered 
the  same  reluctance,  the  same  severity,  the  same  sympa- 
thy, and  dismissed  her  with  equal  marks  of  affection. 

As  soon  as  Zobeide  had  recovered  from  her  fatigue, 
Amine  took  a  lute  and  played  a  plaintive  tune,  which  she 
accompanied  with  her  voice.  Having  played  and  sung 
for  some  time,  she  became  transported  with  her  own  mel- 
ody, and  her  powers  failing  her,  she  fainted  away.  Zo- 
beide and  Safie  flew  to  her  assistance,  and  endeavored  to 
recover  her.  But  the  fit  not  yielding  to  common  methods, 
they  were  obliged,  for  air,  to  lay  bare  her  bosom,  which 
appeared  bruised,  and  so  full  of  scars  as  to  shock  the 
beholders. 

When  the  caliph  was  first  introduced,  he  was  struck 
with  the  beauty  and  elegant  manners  of  the  ladies;  the 
singular  appearance  of  the  calendars,  all  young  men  of 
polite  address,  and  all  blind  of  the  right  eye,  had  exceed- 
ingly engaged  his  attention.  He  was  astonished  at  the 
conduct  of  Zobeide,  in  so  severely  whipping  the  two  bitches, 
and  afterward  crying  with  them  ;  wiping  away  their  tears, 
and  kissing  them,  though  such  animals  are  considered  by 
the  Mussulman  religion  as  unclean  ;  and  the  sight  of  Ami- 
ne's  bosom  excited  his  highest  indignation  against  the 
person  who  had  so  cruelty  abused  her.  Yet  he  still  suf- 
fered himself  to  be  restrained  by  the  conditions  imposed 
on  him  and  his  companions.  While  he  was  meditating  on 
these  extraordinary  events,  he  overheard  the  calendars 
expressing  to  each  other  their  wonder  also. 

The  caliph  had  not  doubted  before  but  the  calendars 
were  part  of  the  family;  but  when  he  found  that  they 
were  strangers,  and  were  equally  astonished  at  what  had 
passed,  he  entered  into  conversation  with  them.  Zobeide 
and  Safie  still  continuing  engaged  in  the  care  of  Amine, 
the  caliph  beckoned  the  porter,  expecting  to  receive  infor- 
mation from  him ;  as  he  was  also  unacquainted  with  these 
matters,  the  prince  proposed  that  they  should  all  throw 
aside  the  law  which  had  been  imposed  upon  them,  and 
jointly  request  the  ladies  to  explain  these  mysteries.     The 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  37 

calendars  assented  to  the  proposal,  but  each  declined  to 
ask  the  question.  At  last  they  all  agreed  in  requiring  the 
porter  to  do  it.  While  they  were  conversing  on  this  sub- 
ject, Amine  recovered;  and  Zobeide,  who  had  heard  them 
speak  with  much  earnestness%drew  near  and  inquired  the 
cause  of  their  dispute ;  to  which  the  porter  bluntly  an- 
swered, "  Madam,  these  gentlemen  desire  you  will  acquaint 
them  why  you  wept  over  your  two  bitches,  after  you  had 
whipped  them ;  and  how  that  lady's  bosom,  who  fainted 
lately,  became  so  full  of  scars." 

Zobeide,  turning  to  the  caliph  and  the  rest  of  the  com- 
pany, with  an  air  of  indignation  asked  if  they  had  ordered 
the  porter  to  make  that  request.  On  their  acknowledging 
that  they  had,  she  said,  "Before  we  gave  you  the  protec- 
tion of  our  house,  you  were  each  separately  cautioned, 
not  to  speak  of  things  which  did  not  concern  you,  lest  you  should 
hear  of  that  which  would  not  please  you;  take  therefore  the 
just  punishment  of  your  impertinence  and  ingratitude." 
As  she  spoke,  she  gave  three  hard  knocks  with  her  foot, 
and  clapping  her  hands  as  often,  cried,  "  Come  quick."  A 
door  immediately  flew  open,  and  seven  strong  slaves,  with 
scimitars  in  their  hands,  rushed  in.  Every  one  seized  a 
man,  threw  him  on  the  ground,  and  prepared  to  cut  off 
his  head.  The  frightened  porter  exclaimed  aloud,  "For 
Heaven's  sake,  do  not  punish  me  for  the  crimes  of  others  I 
I  am  innocent;  they  are  to  blame;  alas!"  continued  he, 
crying,  "how  happy  were  we  before  these  blind  calendars 
came ;  they  are  the  cause  of  this  misfortune ;  there  is  no 
town  in  the  world  but  falls  to  ruin,  wherever  these  inau- 
spicious fellows  come !" 

The  caliph,  alarmed  at  his  situation,  was  about  to  dis- 
cover himself,  when  Zobeide,  who,  notwithstanding  her 
anger,  could  scarce  refrain  from  laughing  aloud  at  the 
lamentation  of  the  porter,  thus  addressed  herself  to  them 
all:  "Your  unworthy  conduct  convinces  me  that  you  are 
common  fellows  of  no  credit  in  your  own  countries.  If, 
however,  you  have  anything  to  say  before  you  pay  the 
penalty  of  your  folly,  we  will  hear  you."  At  these  words, 
one  of  the  calendars  lifted  up  his  bead,  and  declared  that 
4 


88  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

he  ai  d  bis  brother  calendars  were  princes,  and  had  passed 
through  such  wonderful  adventures  that,  were  they  told, 
would  recommend  them  to  her  pity  and  forgiveness. 

Zobeide,  having  consulted  with  her  sisters,  said,  "  Re- 
late, then,  those  events  which  you  speak  of;  if  they  are 
indeed  singular,  they  may  perhaps  soften  our  resentment."' 
The  slaves  then  suffered  them  to  rise,  and  the  calendar 
who  had  thus  far  prevailed  with  the  affronted  lady  to 
suspend  their  resentment,  began  his  story. 

HISTORY   OF   THE   FIRST   CALENDAR. 

"  My  grandfather  reigned  over  two  adjoining  kingdoms; 
one  of  which  he  bequeathed  at  his  death  to  my  father, 
and  the  other  to  his  younger  son.  As  the  utmost  cordi- 
ality subsisted  between  the  two  brothers,  when  I  grew  up 
and  had  completed  my  exercises,  I  used  to  pass  a  month 
every  year  in  my  uncle's  court,  in  company  with  his  son, 
who  was  about  my  age,  and  with  whom  I  had  contracted 
an  intimate  friendship. 

"  The  last  visit  I  paid  him,  my  uncle  was  absent  on  a 
progress  through  his  distant  provinces.  My  cousin  re- 
ceived me  with  unusual  ardor  of  affection.  After  a  few 
days'  repose,  he  told  me  that  I  could  render  him  an  im- 
portant service;  but  before  he  could  explain  himself,  he 
must  exact  a  solemn  oath,  that  I  would  never  discover 
what  he  should  employ  me  to  do,  nor  any  measure  he 
should  take  in  consequence  of  that  service.  I  had  the 
greatest  affection  for  my  cousin,  and  doubted  not  but 
his  whole  conduct  was  regulated  by  virtue  and  honor. 
I  made  no  scruple,  therefore,  to  take  the  oath  he  required; 
on  which  he  requested  me  to  go  in  the  evening  to  tho 
gardens  which  were  set  apart  for  the  women  of  the  se- 
raglio. '  If  you  are  seen,'  said  he,  'no  one  will  venture  to 
question  you  ;  and  when  a  lady  joins  you,  all  I  desire  of 
you  is,  to  conduct  her  as  she  shall  direct  you,  and  to  keep 
my  secret.' 

"  I  obeyed  his  commands ;  the  lady  met  me,  and,  at  her 
desire,  I  conducted  her  to  a  cemetery  adjoining  to  the 
city,  whore,  at  a  new  tomb,  we  found  the  prince  waiting 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  39 

to  receive  us ;  he  had  with  him  a  pitcher  with  water,  a 
hatchet,  and  a  little  bag  of  plaster.  With  the  hatchet  he 
broke  down  the  sepulchre  in  the  midst  of  the  tomb;  ho 
then  lifted  up  a  trap-door,  which  discovered  a  staircase: 
;This,  madam,'  said  he,  'is  the  way.'  The  lady  immedi- 
ately descended  the  stairs,  and  the  prince  prepared  to 
follow  her.  Turning  to  me,  he  thanked  me  for  my  ser- 
vices ;  but  in  answer  to  my  eager  inquiries,  said  only, 
'  Adieu,  my  dear  cousin !  remember  your  oath.'  Then 
letting  down  the  trap-door,  he  disappeared. 

"  I  returned  to  the  palace  unobserved.  After  some  days, 
the  prince  not  appearing,  the  ministers  of  my  uncle  were 
greatly  distressed  to  know  what  was  become  of  him.  I 
did  not  venture  to  reveal  to  them  what  I  knew;  and 
indeed,  when  for  my  own  satisfaction  I  sought  the  tomb 
where  I  had  left  him,  there  were  so  many  alike,  that  I 
found  it  impossible  to  distinguish  it. 

"As. the  king  continued  his  tour,  I  determined  to  return 
to  my  father's  court ;  on  my  arrival,  I  was  immediately 
surrounded  by  the  guards,  and  taken  prisoner.  The  king, 
my  father,  was  dead ;  and  his  treacherous  vizier,  taking 
advantage  of  my  absence,  had  corrupted  the  soldiery,  and 
seized  the  throne.  This  usurper  had  a  personal  hatred  of 
me.  When  I  was  a  boy,  I  was  shooting  at  a  bird  with  a 
cross-bow,  the  arrow  unfortunately  hit  the  vizier  and  put 
out  one  of  his  eyes.  I  made  every  apology  in  my  power, 
yet  he  never  forgave  me ;  and  now,  when  I  was  brought 
into  his  presence,  he  ran  at  me  in  a  rage,  and  pulled  out 
my  right  eye.  But  not  daring  to  put  me  to  death  in  the 
capital,  lest  he  should  excite  an  insurrection  among  the 
people,  he  sent  me  to  a  distant  part  of  the  country,  under 
the  care  of  his  most  trusty  adherents,  who  had  orders  to 
destroy  me. 

"  From  these  assassins  1  found  means  to  escape,  and 
with  much  difficulty  I  arrived  at  the  dominions  of  my 
ancle,  who  received  me  with  the  greatest  friendship. 
After  having  condoled  me,  he  told  me  with  much  sorrow 
Df  the  absence  of  the  prince,  his  son.  His  excessive  grief 
overcame  me ;  and  notwithstanding  my  oath,  I  told  him 
all  that  had  passed  between  me  and  my  cousin. 


40  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

"  The  king  listened  to  me  with  great  attention.  When 
I  had  finished  my  narrative,  he  proposed  we  should  go 
privately  in  search  of  the  tomb.  AVe  went  accordingly; 
and  I  knew  it  immediately,  though  I  had  so  often  sought 
for  it  before  in  vain.  We  removed  the  trap-door  with 
much  exertion,  as  the  prince  had  secured  it  on  the  inside 
with  the  mortar  he  took  with  him.  On  descending,  we 
found  an  elegant  suite  of  rooms,  in  one  of  which  was  a  bed 
with  the  curtains  close  drawn  ;  these  the  king  opened,  and 
we  found  the  prince  and  the  lady  in  the  bed,  burnt  to  a  coal. 

"  While  I  viewed  this  spectacle  with  horror,  I  was  sur- 
prised that  my  uncle,  instead  of  testifying  grief  at  the 
fate  of  his  son,  spat  in  his  face,  and  exclaimed,  'This  is 
the  punishment  of  this  world,  but  that  of  the  other  will 
last  to  eternit}'!'  The  king  perceived  my  astonishment, 
and  explained  his  conduct  by  acquainting  me,  that  a  crim- 
inal passion  had  arisen  between  the  prince  and  that  lady, 
who  was  his  sister;  that  he  had  in  vain  exerted  the  au- 
thority of  a  father  and  of  a  sovereign  to  restrain  these 
unworthy  children  ;  that  before  he  began  his  late  tour, 
he  had  given  an  absolute  order,  that  the  prince  should 
not  be  permitted  to  approach  the  women's  apartment. 
'The  wretch,'  continued  the  unhappy  father,  'has  rendered 
vain  all  my  precautions.  It  is  plain  he  built  these  subter- 
ranean apartments  for  a  retreat,  and  made  use  of  your 
friendship  to  obtain  the  miserable  partner  of  his  iniquity; 
but  God,  who  would  not  suffer  such  an  abomination,  has 
justly  punished  them  both.' 

"  When  we  were  recovered  from  the  horror  of  this 
scene,  we  agreed  to  retire  as  privately  as  we  came ;  to 
cover  up  the  trap-door  with  earth,  and  to  hide,  if  possible. 
forever  so  shocking  an  instance  of  human  depravity  in 
our  relations.  We  returned  to  the  palace  in  the  deepest 
affliction;  but  our  attention  was  soon  called  to  other  ob- 
jects. The  vizier,  who  had  usurped  my  crown,  was  an 
able  general ;  not  doubting  but  that  my  uncle  would  en- 
deavor to  punish  his  crimes,  and  to  revenge  me,  he  deter- 
mined to  be  beforehand  with  him  ;  he  ]ed  the  flower  of 
his  troops  into  the  field,  and  by  skilful  conduct  and  rap;d 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  41 

Marches  he  contrived  to  surprise  the  capital.  At  the 
instant  of  our  return,  we  found  that  the  enemy  had  en 
tered  the  gates.  We  flew  to  put  ourselves  at  the  head  oi 
the  guards,  and  made  a  vigorous  resistance,  but  the  for- 
tune of  the  usurper  prevailed.  My  uncle  fell  gallantly 
fighting;  all  opposition  became  fruitless;  I  bad  no  hope 
of  mercy.  I  contrived  therefore  to  escape ;  and,  in  this 
habit,  I  passed  unknown  through  my  uncle's  dominions. 
I  arrived  this  day  at  Bagdad,  intending  to  throw  myself 
at  the  feet  of  the  glorious  caliph  ifaroun  Alraschid,  and 
to  implore  his  protection." 

HISTORY    OF    THE    SECOND    CALENDAR. 

"I  also,  madam,"  began  the  second  calendar,  "am  the 
son  of  a  king.  I  pass  over  the  events  of  my  early  life, 
and  come  to  that  which  introduced  me  to  so  many  mis- 
fortunes. 

"  My  father  having  occasion  to  send  an  embassy  to  the 
sultan  of  the  Indies,  thought  the  journey,  and  the  survey 
of  a  foreign  court,  would  be  exceedingly  useful  to  me. 
By  his  command  I  joined  the  caravan;  we  travelled  for  a 
month  with  safety  and  pleasure  ;  when  we  were  suddenly 
beset  by  a  numerous  troop  of  robbers,  who  plundered  our 
baggage,  killed  many  of  our  part}',  and  dispersed  the  rest. 

"I  had  the  good  fortune  to  escape  unhurt;  but  I  was 
alone,  and  wholly  unacquainted  with  the  country.  I  jour- 
neyed on  for  many  weeks,  and  at  last  arrived  at  a  large 
city,  in  a  most  deplorable  situation  :  my  body  sun-burnt, 
my  clothes  worn  out,  and  without  the  means  of  obtaining 
others.  On  my  entering  the  town,  I  applied  to  a  tailor 
to  mend  my  tattered  garments:  while  he  was  rendering 
me  this  service,  he  entered  into  conversation  with  me,  and 
inquired  who  I  was  and  whence  I  came.  I  made  no  hesi. 
tation  to  acquaint  him  with  my  situation.  'Take  espe- 
cial care,'  replied  the  tailor,  '  how  you  reveal  to  any  one 
else  who  you  are  ;  the  prince  of  this  country  is  the  mor- 
tal enemy  of  your  father;  the  laws  of  hospitality,  or  even 
humanitj7,  are  little  regarded  by  him  :  judge,  then,  how 
necessary  t  is  for  you  to  be  concealed.'  The  instant  I 
4* 


i%  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

heard  the  name  of  the  city  whore  I  was,  1  knew  the  ne- 
cessity of  this  caution. 

"  The  friendly  tailor  was  of  the  utmost  service  to  me. 
He  took  me  into  his  house,  and  gave  me  such  refresh- 
ments as  his  poverty  could  furnish.  Some  days  after, 
when  I  was  pretty  well  recovered  from  raj  fatigue,  my 
host,  knowing  that  most  princes  of  our  religion  apply 
themselves  to  some  art  or  calling,  inquired  of  me  which 
I  had  learned.  Unfortunately  I  had  neglected  that  useful 
custom.  'You  must  then,'  said  he,  'submit  to  harder 
labor;  for  it  will  not  be  safe  for  you  to  continue  unem- 
ployed in  this  city;  join  those  poor  people  who  cut  fuel 
for  the  use  of  the  town,  in  the  neighboring  forests;  I  will 
supply  you  with  a  proper  habit,  and  with  implements ; 
you  may  then  remain  in  safety  with  me,  till  an  opportu- 
nity offers  of  returning  to  your  father's  dominions.' 

"  I  followed  this  prudent  advice,  and  for  a  year  went 
daily  to  the  forest.  One  day,  as  I  was  pulling  up  the  root 
of  a  tree,  I  espied  an  iron  ring  fastened  to  a  trap-door; 
on  lifting  it,  I  saw  some  stairs,  which  I  descended,  and 
found  they  led  to  several  stately  rooms,  in  one  of  which 
I  discovered  a  lovely  lady,  of  noble  carriage  and  extraor- 
dinary beauty.  She  expressed  the  greatest  surprise  at 
seeing  me.  'I  have  lived/  said  she,  'twenty-five  years 
here,  and  never  saw  any  man  before  !  by  what  adventure 
are  you  come  hither?' 

"I  was  ashamed  to  be  considered,  by  so  lovely  a  woman, 
as  an  humble  wood-cutter;  I  therefore  readily  told  her 
who  I  was;  and  requested  to  know  by  what  accident  she 
had  been  so  long  secluded  from  the  world.  'Alas!  prince,' 
Baid  she,  'I  am  also  of  royal  birth;  my  father,  king  of  the 
isle  of  Ebene,  gave  me  in  marriage  to  a  prince;  but  on 
my  wedding-night,  before  I  was  introduced  to  my  spouse, 
a  genie  took  me  away. 

"  'I  was  a  long  time  inconsolable  ;  but  time  and  necessity 
have  accustomed  me  to  receive  the  hateful  genie.  He 
visits  me  every  tenth  day.  If  I  wish  to  see  him  at  any 
other  time,  1  touch  the  talisman  you  see  there,  and  he 
presently  appears.     He  will  not  be  here  these  five  days ; 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  43 

if  you  choose  to  pass  them  with  me,  I  will  endeavor  to 
entertain  you  according  to  your  quality  and  merit.'  I  em- 
braced her  proposal  with  the  greatest  joy. 

"  The  next  day  she  introduced  at  dinner  a  bottle  of  ex 
cellent  old  wine;  my  head  grew  affected  by  it.  'Princess,' 
said  I,  'you  have  too  long  been  thus  buried  alive;  you 
shall  not  continue  to  be  enslaved  by  this  tyrant.  Let  him 
come;  I  swear  I  will  extirpate  all  the  genii  in  the  world, 
and  him  first ;  and  as  for  this  talisman,  I  will  break  it.'  The 
princess  entreated  me  not  to  touch  the  talisman.  'I  know,' 
said  she,  '  what  belongs  to  genii,  better  than  you.'  But 
in  vain  ;  the  fumes  of  the  wine  did  not  suffer  me  to  hearken 
to  her.  I  gave  the  talisman  a  violent  kick  with  my  foot, 
and  broke  it  all  to  pieces. 

"  Immediately  the  palace  began  to  shake ;  thunder, 
lightning,  and  darkness  appalled  us.  This  terrible  ap- 
pearance in  an  instant  dispelled  my  drunkenness.  I  per- 
ceived at  once  my  folly  and  the  danger  we  were  in. 

"  The  princess,  anxious  only  for  me,  urged  me  to  escape 
immediately.  I  obej^ed  her  in  so  much  haste,  that  I  left 
my  hatchet  and  cords  behind  me.  I  had  scarce  ascended 
the  stairs,  when  I  saw  the  palace  open,  the  genie  rushing 
through,  and  the  earth  closing  upon  him. 

"  I  returned  to  the  city  in  great  distress,  grieved  at  my 
own  misconduct,  and  in  despair  for  the  poor  princess. 
When  I  got  home,  I  paid  little  attention  to  the  joy  ex- 
pressed by  my  friendly  tailor  for  my  safe  return;  but 
retired  to  my  chamber,  and  gave  myself  up  to  the  most 
tormenting  reflections. 

"  From  these  I  was  soon  roused  by  my  host,  who  came 
to  tell  me  that  an  old  man  had  brought  home  my  hatchet 
and  cords,  which  he  would  not  deliver  to  anybody  but 
myself.  I  turned  pale  at  this  intelligence;  but  before  1 
had  time  to  recover  myself,  the  old  man  followed  him: 
'Do  not  these  things  belong  to  you?'  said  he,  sternly. 
This  abrupt  question,  his  terrible  aspect,  and  my  own 
fears,  made  me  unable  to  answer  him.  While  I  continued 
thus  t07-pid  from  terror,  he  seized  me,  dragged  me  out  of 
the  house,  and  mounting  into  the  air,  carried  me  along 


44  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

with  incredible  swiftness;  then  descending,  he  struck  the 
earth  with  his  foot,  which  opened,  and  we  found  ourselves 
in  the  palace  of  the  princess  of  Ebene.  But  alas  !  what  a 
spectacle!  The  poor  princess  was  lying  on  the  ground 
fainting,  naked,  and  bleeding. 

"  '  Perfidious  wretch  !'  said  the  genie  to  her,  'is  not  this 
thy  gallant  ? '  She,  casting  up  her  languishing  eyes  at  me, 
said,  'I  do  not  know  him,  nor  ever  saw  him  before.' 
1  What !'  said  the  genie,  'is  be  not  the  cause  of  thy  being 
in  the  condition  thou  art  so  justly  in  !  and  yet  darest  thou 
say  thou  dost  not  know  him?'  'I  do  not  know  him,' 
replied  the  princess.  'If  so,'  said  the  genie,  presenting  a 
scimitar  to  her,  'cut  off  his  head.'  'Alas!'  replied  the 
princess,  '  I  am  not  able  to  obey  your  barbarous  command, 
even  if  I  were  willing.'  The  genie,  turning  from  her 
with  indignation,  said  to  me,  'And  thou — dost  not  thou 
know  her?' 

"  I  should  have  been  the  basest  of  slaves,  had  I  been  less 
faithful  to  her  than  the  princess  was  to  me.  I  therefore 
answered  firmly, '  I  know  her  not,  nor  have  ever  seen  her 
before.'  'Take  then  the  scimitar.'  said  the  genie,  'and  cut 
off  her  head  !  I  shall  then  be  convinced  of  your  innocence 
and  will  set  }tou  at  liberty.'    '  With  all  my  heart,'  replied  I. 

"  The  unhappy  princess  cast  up  to  me  a  look  expressive 
of  her  readiness  to  die  for  my  safety;  but  nothing  could 
be  further  from  my  intention  than  to  perpetrate  such  a 
crime.  Checking,  therefore,  my  deeming  readiness,  I  paused 
a  moment,  and  then  said  to  the  genie,  'I  cannot  bring  my- 
self to  take  away  the  life  of  an  unhappy  lady,  who  hath 
done  me  no  wrong.  If  b}T  murder  only  I  can  escape  your 
unjust  resentment,  I  am  in  your  power,  and  you  must  do 
svith  me  as  you  please.' 

"'I  see,'  said  the  genie,  'that  you  both  put  me  at  defiance.' 
Having  said  this,  he  took  up  the  scimitar,  and  put  an  end 
to  her  life.  Then  turning  to  me,  '  Was  I  sure,'  said  he, 
'  that  she  had  put  a  greater  affront  on  me  than  in  con- 
versing with  thee,  thou  also  shouldst  die  ;  but  I  will  be  con- 
tent with  transforming  thee  into  a  dog,  ape,  or  lion,  or 
oird ;  take  thy  choice.'     'O  genie.'  said  I,  '  it  is  more  noble 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  45 

to  pardon  than  to  punish  ;  if  you  will  generously  dismiss 
me,  I  shall  ever  gratefully  remember  your  clemency,  and 
you  will  act  like  the  illustrious  sultan  Hassan  AH,  whose 
forbearance  was  the  cause  of  all  his  good  fortune.'  '  I  will 
have  patience  till  you  tell  me  that  story,'  replied  the 
genie,  '  but  think  not  to  escape  unpunished.'" 

THE    STORY    OF    THE    ENVIOUS     MAN,    AND    OF    HIM    THAT    HK 

ENVIED. 

Hassan  Ali  was  respected  by  all  his  neighbors,  except 
by  one  man  ;  who,  envying  his  great  reputation,  conceived 
a  violent  hatred  to  him.  Hassan  endeavored  in  vain,  by 
repeated  good  offices,  to  overcome  this  dislike  ;  but  finding 
his  neighbor's  ill-will  unconquerable,  he  determined  to 
remove  to  another  town,  rather  than  live  at  enmity. 

He  removed  accordingly,  put  on  the  habit  of  a  dervis, 
and  passed  his  time  in  retirement.  The  sanctity  of  his 
manners,  and  the  benevolence  of  his  heart,  acquired  him 
general  esteem.  He  was  raised  to  the  head  of  a  convent 
of  dervises,  and  his  reputation  spread  abroad,  till  it  reached 
the  town  he  had  left,  and  renewed  the  ill-will  of  his  un- 
worthy neighbor.  This  man,  becoming  more  inveterate 
than  ever  against  Hassan,  determined  to  visit  him  at  his 
convent,  with  intent  to  destroy  him.  Hassan  received 
him  kindly,  and  readily  went  with  him  into  the  garden  of 
the  convent,  to  hear  the  business  he  pretended  to  have 
with  him. 

It  was  night,  and  the  envious  man  was  well  acquainted 
with  the  garden.  He  prolonged  the  conversation  till  they 
came  to  the  edge  of  a  deep  well,  when  suddenly  turning, 
be  pushed  Hassan  into  it.  He  then  left  the  convent  hastily 
and  returned  home,  rejoicing  that  he  had  gratified  hia 
malice  and  destroyed  the  good  dervis. 

It  chanced  that  the  well  was  inhabited  by  fairies  and 
genii,  who  received  Hassan  and  preserved  him. 

While  he  was  reflecting  on  these  events,  he  heard  a 
voice  relating  his  story,  and  after  highly  praising  him,  go 
on  to  declare,  that  the  sultan  intended  to  visit  him  the 
next  tf'ay  to  recommend  his  daughter  to  his  prayers. 


46  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Another  voice  asked,  "What  need  had  the  princess  of 
the  dervis's  prayers?"  To  which  the  first  answered, 
"She  is  possessed  by  a  genie,  but  the  cure  is  easy:  there 
is  in  the  convent  a  black  cat  with  a  white  spot  at  the  end 
of  her  tail;  let  seven  of  these  white  hairs  be  burned  in 
presence  of  the  princess,  and  .the  genie  will  leave  her,  and 
never  dare  to  return."  The  dervis  took  care  to  remember 
this  conversation.  In  the  morning  he  got  out  of  the  well 
without  difficulty:  when  he  entered  the  convent,  his  cat 
coming  as  usual  to  play  about  him,  he  pulled  out  seven 
hairs  from  the  white  spot  on  the  tail,  and  put  them  safely  by. 

Shortly  afterward,  the  sultan  arrived  with  his  attend- 
ants. Hassan  received  him  with  suitable  respect,  and 
immediately,  before  the  sultan  had  explained  the  cause  of 
his  coming,  he  caused  fire  to  be  brought  in  ;  and  burning 
the  hairs,  the  genie  gave  a  great  cry,  and  left  the  princess, 
who  instantly  appeared  to  be  perfectly  recovered.  The 
sultan  rejoiced  beyond  measure  at  this  event:  having  the 
highest  opinion  of  the  good  dervis,  he  gave  him  his  daugh- 
ter for  a  wife,  and  dying  soon  after,  Hassan  succeeded  to 
his  throne. 

When  he  made  his  public  entry  into  his  capital,  great 
crowds  flocked  from  all  parts  to  see  their  new  sovereign. 
Among  the  rest,  came  the  envious  man,  who  little  expected 
to  find  his  old  neighbor  alive,  and  become  his  prince.  The 
good  Hassan,  seeing  him  in  the  throng,  commanded  him 
to  be  brought  before  him.  The  envious  man  came  into 
his  presence  trembling,  and  expecting  the  punishment  he 
deserved  ;  but  the  sultan  ordered  him  valuable  presents, 
and  dismissed  him  with  this  remark:  "I  freely  forgive 
thy  past  malice,  and  consider  thee  as  entitled  to  reward, 
having  been  the  cause  of  my  good  fortune  ;  but  as  the  evil 
thou  didst  intend  me  has  been  most  serviceable  to  me,  so 
the  good  I  now  do  thee  will  become  evil  if  thou  dost  not 
shake  off  thy  malignity." 

"  You  see,  genie,  said  I,  how  nobly  Hassan  Ali  behaved 
to  his  enemy.  Let  me  entreat  you  to  follow  his  example. 
Instead  of  attending  to  my  request,  the  genie  threw  some 
earth  in  ivy  face,  and  vanished.     I  found  myself  ail   at 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  47 

on<:e  removed  from  the  palace  to  the  ridge  of  a  mountain, 
and  transformed  into  an  ape. 

"  I  was  overwhelmed  with  sorrow  at  this  metamorphosis. 
1  determined,  without  knowing  why,  to  leave  the  mountain 
and  go  to  the  sea-coast,  which  I  saw  at  a  great  distance. 
When  I  came  there,  I  found  a  vessel  at  anchor  near  the 
shore ;  1  broke  off  the  arm  of  a  tree,  and  getting  on  it, 
guided  it  with  two  small  sticks,  which  served  me  for  oars, 
till  I  came  close  to  the  vessel,  when  I  seized  a  rope,  ana 
jumped  on  bo^rl.  The  passengers  had  seen  my  dexterity 
with  much  pleasure ;  but  when  I  leaped  on  board,  their 
superstition  took  alarm  ;  every  one  pursued  me  with  hand- 
spikes or  arrows,  and  I  should  certainly  have  been  slain, 
if  I  had  not  thrown  myself  at  the  feet  of  the  captain, 
and,  by  my  tears  and  expressive  gestures,  obtained  his 
protection. 

"A  few  days  after  we  made  the  port  of  a  capital  town. 
On  our  arrival,  some  officers  came  on  board,  and  desired 
as  many  as  chose,  to  write  in  a  paper  they  produced.  The 
reason  of  this  request  was,  the  vizier  of  the  country  was 
lately  dead  ;  who,  besides  possessing  other  great  talents, 
was  a  very  fine  writer  ;  and  the  sultan  had  determined 
not  to  give  his  place  but  to  one  who  would  write  as  well. 
Everybody,  on  hearing  this  story,  was  eager  to  write. 
When  they  had  done,  I  made  signs  that  1  could  write. 
The  officers  paid  no  regard  to  me,  but  the  captain  stood 
once  more  my  friend.  At  his  request  a  pen  was  given  to 
me,  and  I  wrote  six  sorts  of  hands  used  among  the  Ara- 
bians ;  each  specimen  being  a  distich  in  compliment  to 
the  sultan.  As  soon  as  that  prince  saw  my  writing,  he 
ordered  his  officers  to  conduct  the  writer  to  court  in  great 
pomp,  and  to  declare  him  vizier.  The  officers  could  not 
restrain  their  laughter  on  receiving  this  order,  but  imme- 
diately apologized  to  their  sovereign  by  acquainting  him 
that  tb.9  writer  was  not  a  man,  but  an  ape.  The  sultan 
was  amazed,  and  expressed  great  desire  to  see  me.  On 
my  being  introduced,  I  directly  paid  my  respects  to  him 
in  the  usual  manner,  to  the  surprise  of  the  spectators, 
who  wondered  how  an  ape  should  distinguish  the  prince 
and  behave  to  him  so  properly. 


48  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

•'The  sultan  retiring  to  dine,  made  a  sign  for  me  to  at- 
tend him.  After  dinner  a  chess-board  was  brought  in,  and 
on  his  pointing  to  it,  1  made  him  understand  that  I  could 
play  the  game.  We  sat  down ;  the  sultan  won  the  first 
game,  but  I  won  the  second  and  third.  Seeing  him  dis- 
concerted, I  immediately  wrote  a  complimentary  distich, 
which  restored  his  good  humor. 

"  The  sultan  had  a  daughter  who  was  justly  called  the 
Lady  of  Beauty,  of  whom  he  was  exceeding  fond.  Think- 
ing the  sight  of  so  wonderful  an  ape  would  entertain  her, 
he  sent  for  her  ;  on  her  entering  the  room  she  let  fall  her 
veil,  though  there  were  only  the  customary  attendants 
present.  The  sultan  inquired  the  cause  of  this  novelty: 
'Sir,'  replied  the  princess,  'the  ape  that  you  have  by  you 
is  a  young  prince  transformed  by  enchantment.  I  have 
learned  the  seventy  rules  of  magic,  whence  I  know,  at 
first  sight,  all  persons  who  are  enchanted,  and  how  they 
became  so.'  'Have  you  power  also,'  said  the  sultan,  'to 
dispel  the  charm?'  'I  have,' replied  the  princess.  'Do 
so  then  immediately,  I  entreat  you,'  said  the  sultan;  'I 
interest  myself  exceedingly  in  this  prince's  fortune;  if 
you  "can  restore  him,  I  will  make  him  my  vizier,  and  he 
shall  marry  you.' 

"The  Lady  of  Beauty  retired,  and  presently  returning, 
brought  a  knife  which  had  some  Hebrew  words  engraved 
on  the  blade.  She  conducted  the  sultan  and  myself,  at- 
tended by  the  master  of  the  eunuchs  and  a  little  siave, 
into  a  private  court  of  the  palace  ;  and  placing  us  in  the 
gallery,  she  drew  a  circle  within  which  she  wrote  several 
words  in  Arabian  characters,  some  of  them  ancient,  others 
of  the  character  of  Cleopatra. 

"  "When  she  had  finished  the  circle,  she  placed  herself 
in  the  centre  of  it,  where  she  began  adjurations,  and  re- 
peated verses  out  of  the  Alcoran.  The  air  insensibly 
grew  dark  :  all  at  once  the  genie  appeared  in  the  shape 
of  a  lion  of  a  frightful  size. 

"'Wretch,'  said  the  princess  to  him,  'darest  thou  pre- 
sent thyself  in  that  shape,  thinking  to  frighten  me?' 
*  And  thou,'  replied  the  lion,  '  art  thou  not  afraid  to  break 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS,  49 

the  treaty  which  was  so  solemnly  made  between  us?  but 
thou  shalt  quickly  have  thy  reward.'  At  these  words  he 
opened  his  terrible  jaws  and  ran  at  her  to  devour  her; 
but  she  leaped  backward,  pulled  out  one  of  her  hairs,  and, 
by  pronouncing  three  or  four  words,  changed  herself  into 
%  sharp  sword,  and  cut  the  lion  in  two. 

"  The  lion  vanished,  and  a  scorpion  appeared  in  his 
room.  The  princess  became  a  serpent,  and  fought  the 
6corpion,  who,  finding  himself  worsted,  took  the'  shape 
of  an  eagle,  and  flew  away.  The  serpent  also  took  the 
same  shape  and  pursued  him,  so  that  we  lost  sight  of  them 
both.  Some  time  after  the  ground  opened,  and  there  came 
forth  a  cat,  with  her  hair  standing  upright,  and  making 
a  fearful  mewing ;  a  black  wolf  followed  her  close,  and 
gave  her  no  time  to  rest.  The  cat,  thus  hard  beset, 
changed  herself  into  a  worm,  and  a  pomegranate  lying 
by  the  side  of  the  canal,  the  worm  pierced  it  in  an  instant 
and  hid  itself;  but  the  pomegranate  immediately  swelled 
as  big  as  a  gourd,  and  presently  burst  into  several  pieces. 
The  wolf  became  a  cock,  and  picked  up  the  seeds  of  the 
pomegranate;  when  he  could  find  no  more,  he  came -to 
ward  us,  as  if  he  would  ask  us  whether  he  had  left  any. 
There  was  one  lying  at  the  brink  of  the  canal,  which  we 
perceiving,  pointed  it  out  to  the  cock,  which  ran  speedily 
toward  it ;  just  as  he  was  going  to  pick  it  up,  the  seed 
rolled  into  the  river,  and  became  a  little  fish.  The  cock 
jumped  into  the  river,  and  was  turned  into  a  pike,  which 
pursued  the  small  fish.  They  continued  both  under  water 
about  two  hours,  and  we  began  to  wonder  what  had  be- 
come of  them,  when,  on  a  sudden,  we  heard  such  terrible 
cries  as  made  us  tremble,  and  presently  we  saw  the  prin- 
cess and  the  genie  all  in  flames.  They  threw  flashes  of 
fire  at  each  other  so  fiercely,  that  we  apprehended  that 
the  palace  would  be  consumed  ;  but  we  soon  had  more 
reason  to  be  alarmed,  for  the  genie,  having  got  loose  from 
the  princess,  came  to  the  gallery  and  blew  flames  on  us. 
The  princess  flew  to  our  relief  and  beat  away  the  genie ; 
but  in  that  momentary  attack  the  sultan's  face  was  dread- 
fully scorched,  the  eunuch  was  stifled,  and  a  spark  entering 


50  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

m.y  right  eye,  it  became  blind.  We  expected  nothing  but 
death,  when  we  heard  a  cry  of  'Victory!  victory  I' — tho 
princess  appeared  in  her  natural  shape,  but  the  genie  was 
reduced  to  a  heap  of  ashes. 

"  The  princess  hastily  caught  up  some  water  in  the 
hollow  of  her  hand,  and  uttering  certain  words,  she  threw 
it  over  me,  and  I  became  a  man  as  before,  one  eye  only 
excepted.  As  I  was  about  to  return  thanks  to  my  deliv- 
erer, she  prevented  me  by  addressing  her  father  thus: 
'  Sir,  I  have  got  the  victory  over  the  genie ;  but  it  is  a 
rictory  that  costs  me  dear,  as  I  have  but  a  few  moments 
to  live.  This  would  not  have  been  had  I  perceived  the 
last  of  the  pomegranate  seeds,  and  swallowed  it  as  I  did 
the  others.  That  oversight  obliged  me  to  have  recourse 
to  fire,  and  to  fight  with  those  mighty  arms,  as  I  did, 
between  heaven  and  earth,  in  your  presence.  I  have 
conquered  and  reduced  the  genie  to  ashes ;  but  the  fire 
pierced  me  also  during  the  terrible  combat,  and  I  find  I 
cannot  escape  death.' 

"We  were  thunderstruck  at  this  declaration,  and  had 
scarce  recovered  the  power  of  expressing  our  sorrow, 
when  the  princess  cried  out,  'Oh,  I  burn!'  She  con- 
tinued some  time  crying  out,  till  at  last  the  effect  of  the 
fire  was  so  violent,  that  she  also  as  the  genie,  was  reduced 
to  a  heap  of  ashes. 

"  I  was  inexpressibly  grieved  for  this  fatal  misfortune. 
The  sultan  fainted  away;  and  when  he  revived,  he  con- 
tinued several  days  so  ill  that  his  life  was  despaired  of. 
When  he  was  a  little  recovered  he  sent  for  me  :  '  Prince,' 
said  he,  '  listen  to  the  orders  I  now  give  you  :  it  will  cost 
you  your  life  if  you  do  not  obey  them.  I  have  constantly 
lived  in  felicity  till  you  arrived  in  my  dominions ;  I  need 
not  remind  you  of  the  sad  reverse  I  now  experience,  or 
of  the  loss  of  my  daughter.  You  are  the  cause  'of  all. 
Depart  from  hence  in  peace,  without  delay ;  I  am  per- 
suaded your  presence  brings  mischief  along  with  it : 
depart,  and  take  care  of  ever  appearing  again  in  my 
dominions;  there  is  no  consideration  that  shall  hinder 
my  maki  lg  you  repent  of  it  if  you  do.'     I  was  going  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  51 

reply,  but  he  prevented  me,  and  drove  me  from  his  pres- 
ence with  words  full  of  anger.  Eejected,  banished,  thrown 
off  by  all  the  world,  I  caused  my  beard  and  eyebrows  to 
be  shaved,  and  set  off  for  Bagdad;  lamenting  more  for 
the  two  unfortunate  princesses  than  for  my  own  wretch- 
edness. I  arrived  here  this  evening,  and  hope  to  get 
admission  to  the  commander  of  the  Faithful,  and,  by  re- 
citing my  strange  adventures,  to  obtain  his  princely  com 
passion." 

HISTORY    OF   THE    THIRD    CALENDAR. 

"My  name  is  Agib.  I  am  the  son  of  a  king,  at  whose 
death  I  took  possession  of  an  extensive  and  flourishing 
kingdom.  When  I  was  settled  on  the  throne,  I  resolved 
to  visit  the  distant  provinces  of  my  empire,  particularly 
several  valuable  islands.  We  had  an  exceeding  pleasant 
voyage  there,  but  on  our  return  a  furious  storm  arose, 
and  drove  us  so  far  out  of  our  course  that  the  pilot  knew 
not  m  what  direction  to  steer.  While  we  were  in  this 
uncertainty,  a  sailor  from  the  mast-head  gave  notice  that 
he  saw  something  which  had  the  appearance  of  land,  but 
looked  uncommonly  black. 

"  The  pilot  on  this  report  expressed  the  utmost  con- 
sternation. '  We  are  lost,'  said  he  ; '  the  tempest  has  driven 
us  within  the  influence  of  the  black  mountain,  which  is 
a  rock  of  adamant,  and  at  this  time  its  attraction  draws 
us  toward  it;  to-morrow  we  shall  approach  so  near  that 
the  iron  and  nails  will  be  drawn  out  of  the  ship,  which  of 
course  must  fall  to  pieces,  and  as  the  mountain  is  entirely 
inaccessible,  we  must  all  perish.' 

"  This  account  was  too  true.  The  next  day,  as  we  drew 
near  the  mountain,  the  iron  all  flew  out  of  the  ship  ;  it 
fell  to  pieces,  and  the  whole  crew  perished  in  my  sight. 
I  had  the  good  fortune  to  secure  a  plank,  which  bore  me 
up,  and  the  tide  gently  drove  me  to  the  foot  of  the  moun- 
tain ;  when  I  approached  it,  I  found  it  was  entirely  per- 
pendicular for  a  great  height ;  I  continued  therefore  upon 
my  plank  coasting  i:,  and  was  almost  reduced  to  despair, 
when  I  discovered  a  flight  of  steps  that  went  up  to  the 


52  ARABIAN    MiUUTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

top.  These  I  gained  with  great  difficulty  ;  there  -was  no 
ground  on  either  side;  and  when  1  landed  I  found  the 
steps  so  narrow,  rugged,  and  difficult,  that  the  least  wind 
must  have  blown  me  into  the  sea.  I  got  up,  notwith- 
standing, to  the  top  without  accident,  and  gave  God 
thanks  for  my  deliverance. 

"  On  the  summit  of  the  mountain  I  found  a  dome  of 
fine  brass,  upon  the  top  of  which  stood  the  figure  of  a 
man  on  horseback,  of  the  same  metal.  Being  much  fa- 
tigued, I  laid  down  under  the  dome,  and  soon  fell  asleep  ; 
when  I  dreamt  that  the  old  man  came  to  me,  and  said: 
1  Hearken,  Agib !  —  as  soon  as  thou  art  awake,  dig  up  the 
ground  under  thy  feet,  and  thou  shalt  find  a  bow  of  brass 
and  three  arrows  of  lead  ;  shoot  the  arrows  at  the  statue, 
and  the  rider  will  fall  into  the  sea,  but  the  horse  will  fall 
down  by  thee,  which  thou  must  bury  in  the  same  place 
whence  thou  takest  the  bow  and  arrows.  This  being 
done,  the  mountain  will  gradually  sink  down  into  the  sea; 
and  thou  wilt  have  the  glory  of  delivering  mankind  from 
the  many  calamities  it  occasions.  When  it  has  sunk  to 
the  surface  of  the  water,  thou  shalt  see  a  boat  with  one 
man  in  it :  this  man  is  also  of  metal.  Step  on  board  the 
boat,  and  let  him  conduct  thee ;  in  ten  days'  time  he  will 
bring  thee  to  land,  whence  thou  wilt  find  easy  passage  to 
thy  own  country.  But  be  particularly  careful  not  to  men- 
tion the  name  of  God  while  thou  continuest  in  this  boat.' 

"When  I  awoke  I  was  much  comforted  by  the  vision, 
which  I  prepared  to  obey.  I  dug  up  the  arrows,  ard  shot 
them  at  the  statue;  every  event  foretold  in  my  dream 
followed  precisely;  and  wben  I  got  into  the  boat  of  metal, 
I  found  a  quantity  of  all  kinds  of  refreshments,  which 
were  very  acceptable.  For  nine  days  the  man  of  metal 
continued  to  row  day  and  night  without  ceasing.  I  was 
bo  mindful  of  the  caution  I  had  received,  that  I  did  not 
speak  at  all;  but  arriving  then  near  some  islands,  my  joy 
made  me  forget  myself,  and  I  exclaimed,  '  God's  name  be 
blest!'  Immediately  the  man  and  boat  sunk,  and  1  was 
left  in  the  water. 

H I  got  safe  on  shore,  and  presently  saw  a  vessel  drawing 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  51- 

nigh  the  island;  not  knowing  what  sort  of  people  might 
be  in  it,  I  climbed  a  thick  tree  whence  I  could  see  them 
undiscovered.  Presently  a  number  of  slaves  landed,  and 
began  to  dig  near  the  tree  where  I  had  taken  refuge. 
Soon  after  a  venerable  old  gentleman  came  on  shore,  lead- 
ing a  handsome  youth,  attended  by  several  slaves  who 
carried  provisions.  They  came  together  to  the  place 
where  the  slaves  had  opened  the  ground;  after  a  short 
stay,  they  all  returned  to  the  vessel,  except  the  young 
man,  and  sailed  away. 

"  When  I  perceived  they  were  at  such  a  distance  that 
they  could  not  see  me,  1  descended  from  the  tree,  and 
easily  removing  the  loose  earth,  came  to  a  flight  of  steps ; 
these  I  descended,  and  found  a  room  handsomely  furnished, 
and  the  young  man  sitting  upon  a  couch.  He  started  at 
the  sight  of  me,  yet  rose  to  receive  me  with  a  good  grace. 
I  presently  removed  his  fears  by  offering  to  deliver  him 
from  his  confinement,  on  which  he  requested  me  with  a 
smile  to  sit  down  by  him,  while  he  related  the  cause  of 
his  being  left  in  that  place. 

"'My  father,  sir,'  said  he,  'had  grown  old  in  successful 
traffic,  and  had  gained  immense  wealth,  before  it  had 
pleased  Providence  to  grant  him  a  child  to  inherit  it.  He 
had  begun  to  despair  of  the  blessing,  when  I  was  born. 
The  joy  he  felt  at  my  birth  was  presently  clouded  over; 
for,  in  his  anxiety  for  my  welfare,  he  consulted  astrologers 
as  to  what  my  future  lot  would  be.  They  told  him  I 
should  reach  fifteen  in  perfect  health,  and  if  I  survived 
that  birthday,  I  should  attain  a  good  old  age,  in  prosperity; 
but  that  about  that  time,  Prince  Agib  would  throw  down 
the  statue  of  brass  from  the  mountain  of  adamant,  and 
within  fifty  days  after  would  put  an  end  to  my  life. 

"  '  My  father  was  exceedingly  afflicted  at  this  prediction, 
and  prepared  this  habitation  to  conceal  me  in  at  the  des- 
tined period.  As  the  time  slid  on,  his  uneasiness  in  some 
degree  subsided ;  but  he  learned  yesterday,  that  ten  days 
ago  the  statue  was  overturned  by  the  prince  they  had 
mentioned  ;  and  I  want  just  forty  days  to  complete  my 
fifteenth  year.  These  circumstance's  have  awakened  all 
5*'" 


54  ARABIAN   NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS 

his  terrors;  he  hastened  to  place  me  in  this  asylum,  to 
which  I  came  very  cheerfully  ;  for  surely  Prince  Agib  will 
never  seek  me  in  a  place  underground,  in  the  midst  of  a 
desert  island.' 

"  While  the  young  man  was  relating  this  story,  I  was 
surprised  to  find  myself  so  much  interested  in  it.  I  de- 
spised those  astrologers  who  had  foretold  that  I  should 
take  away  the  life  of  a  youth  for  whom  I  already  began 
to  feel  affection.  I  encouraged  him  in  the  hopes  that  he 
was  out  of  all  danger;  I  offered  to  continue  with  him  as  a 
companion  during  his  confinement,  but  took  care  not  to 
let  him  know  that  I  was  the  Agib  whom  he  dreaded.  He 
received  my  offer  with  joy;  and  we  passed  thirty-nine 
days  very  pleasantly. 

"The  fortieth  day  came,  and  in  the  morning  the  young 
man  rejoiced  that  the  threatened  danger  was  over ;  ho 
prepared  himself  by  bathing  to  receive  his  father,  and 
being  fatigued,  he  laid  down  on  a  couch  to  repose.  After 
a  while  he  requested  me  to  give  him  some  melon.  I  looked 
out  the  best  which  remained,  but  was  at  a  loss  for  a  knife 
to  cut  it.  '  There  is  one,'  said  he,  '  on  the  cornice  over 
my  head.'  I  saw  it,  and  made  so  much  haste  to  reach  it, 
that,  when  I  had  taken  it  in  my  hand,  my  foot  being  en- 
tangled in  the  covering  of  the  couch,  I  fell  most  unhappily 
on  the  young  man,  and  ran  the  knife  into  his  heart. 

"It  is  impossible  to  express  the  anguish  I  felt  at  this 
fatal  accident.  I  cried  out,  beat  my  breast,  and  threw 
myself  on  the  ground.  When  these  transports  had  a  little 
subsided,  it  fortunately  occurred  to  me  that  my  situation 
was  very  dangerous ;  that  the  old  man  and  his  slaves 
would  probably  arrive  soon,  and  finding  me  in  the  cavern 
and  his  son  slain,  I  had  everything  to  dread  from  his 
resentment.  These  considerations  were  very  seasonable, 
for  on  my  hastening  out  of  the  apartment,  I  perceived 
that  the  vessel  had  arrived,  and  the  old  man  with  his 
slaves  were  landing.  I  had  just  time  to  climb  the  tree 
which  before  concealed  me,  when  they  came  to  the  sub- 
terraneous dwelling. 

"  1  could  observe  that  they  came  forward  with  confidence, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  55 

which  abated  greatly  when  they  found  the  ground  o]  en 
Some  of  the  slaves  hastily  descended,  and  soon  returned, 
bearing  the  deceased  youth,  with  the  knife  sticking  in  hia 
body,  for  I  had  not  had  power  to  take  it  out.  At  this 
piicous  sight  the  old  man  fell  down  in  a  swoon ;  the  slaves 
lamented ;  and,  though  unseen  by  them,  I  joined  in  their 
grief  very  heartily.  After  a  time,  when  they  had  with 
difficulty  recovered  the  old  man,  they,  by  his  direction, 
made  a  grave  and  buried  the  poor  youth ;  the  unhappy 
father,  overwhelmed  with  sorrow,  threw  the  first  earth  on 
him;  the  slaves  speedily  filled  up  the  grave,  and  then 
carrying  their  afflicted  patron  on  board  the  vessel,  they 
departed. 

"  I  had  hoped  to  be  conveyed  to  the  continent  by  means 
of  this  ship ;  but  being  thus  fatally  disappointed,  I  was 
obliged  to  continue  and  ramble  about  the  island  for  a  month 
longer,  living  on  the  wild  fruits  it  produced;  at  length  I 
discovered  a  part  where  the  channel  was  not  very  wide ; 
I  contrived  to  pass  over  here,  without  much  difficulty. 
When  I  landed,  I  set  off  with  spirit,  and  presently  thought 
I  saw  at  a  distance  a  great  fire ;  I  rejoiced  much  at  the 
sign  of  inhabitants,  but  when  I  drew  near,  I  found  what 
I  had  supposed  a  fire,  was  the  reflections  of  the  sunbeams 
on  a  castle  of  copper. 

"  It  was  evening  before  I  reached  this  building,  where  I 
was  very  hospitably  received  by  ten  handsome  young  men 
who  were  all  blind  of  the  right  eye.  They  introduced  me 
into  the  castle,  allotted  me  an  apartment,  and  invited  me 
to  sup  with  them;  after  which,  at  their  request,  I  related 
what  had  befallen  me.  We  continued  very  merry,  till  it 
grew  late,  when  one  of  the  company  reminded  the  rest 
that  it  was  time  for  them  to  perform  their  duty.  Imme- 
diatelj',  upon  a  signal  given,  ten  basins  were  brought  in, 
and  one  set  before  each  of  the  gentlemen.  They  un- 
covered the  basins,  which  contained  ashes,  coal-dust,  and 
lamp-black;  with  these  they  bedaubed  their  faces,  beating 
their  breasts,  weeping  and  exclaiming,  '  This  is  the  fruit 
of  our  idleness  and  debauchery.'  This  exercise  continued 
a  long  time,  after  which,  water  being  brought  in,  they 


56  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAIMHENT8. 

washed,  and  each  withdrew  in  silence  to  his  own  apart- 
ment. 

"I  was  conducted  also  to  my  bedchamber;  but  though 
fatigued,  I  was  too  much  astonished  to  sleep.  In  tho 
morning  I  very  earnestly  requested  the  gentlemen  to  tell 
me  the  meaning  of  what  I  had  seen,  and  also  how  it 
chanced  they  were  all  blind  of  the  right  eye.  The}^  posi- 
tively refused  to  give  me  this  satisfaction,  declaring  that 
I  sought  to  divulge  a  curiosity  that  I  should  repent  of  as 
long  as  I  lived.  Thus  silenced,  I  passed  the  day  with 
them  at  their  own  request,  and  the  evening  was  closed 
with  a  repetition  of  their  disgusting  penance. 

"  The  day  following  I  renewed  my  inquiries  in  so  ear- 
nest a  manner,  that  one  of  them,  in  behalf  of  the  rest,  said, 
'It  is  out  of  friendship  to  }tou,  prince,  that  we  have  with- 
held from  you  the  information  you  wish  ;  but  if  you  con- 
tinue to  demand  it,  we  are  not  at  liberty  to  refuse  you. 
Know,  however,  that  you  will  lose  your  right  eye  by 
gratifying  your  dangerous  curiosity;  and  that  when  that 
misfortune  hath  befallen  you,  you  cannot  remain  with  us, 
as  our  number  is  complete,  and  no  addition  can  be  made 
to  it.' 

"As  I  still  persisted,  the  gentlemen  killed  a  sheep  and 
skinned  it.  They  presented  me  with  a  knife,  and  sewed 
Tae  up  in  the  skin,  telling  me,  '  We  must  now  leave  you; 
dt  presently  a  roc  will  come,  and  taking  you  for  a  sheep, 
will  fly  away  with  you.  Be  not  alarmed;  but  when  he 
alights,  cut  open  the  skin  and  throw  it  off,  when  he  will 
fly  away.  You  will  then  see  a  large  palace  which  you 
will  enter.  We  have  all  been  there,  but  may  not  tell  you 
what  befell  us,  or  explain  ourselves  any  further.' 

"  The  gentlemen  then  left  me,  and  presently  the  roc 
came  and  carried  me  away.  The  roc  is  a  white  bird  of 
et.ormous  size,  and  of  such  strength  that  it  takes  elephants 
from  the  plains  to  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  where  he  feeds 
on  them.  On  his  alighting,  I  threw  off  the  skin  as  I  was 
directed,  and  the  ro'c  flew  away. 

"I  walked  forward  to  the  palace,  which  was  more 
splendid    than    imagination    can    conceive;    and   when    1 


ARABIAN    NIGHT8'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  57 

eh  tared  it,  I  was  received  by  forty  ladies  of  exquisite 
beauty,  most  sumptuously  apparelled.  They  conducted 
me  into  a  spacious  hall,  the  doors  of  which  were  of  bur- 
nished gold  set  with  diamonds  and  rubies,  and  everything 
within  it  of  equal  magnificence.  Here,  notwithstanding 
my  opposition,  they  placed  me  on  a  seat  exalted  above 
theirs,  saying,  'You  are  at  present  our  lord,  and  we  are 
your  slaves  ready  to  obey  your  commands.' 

"Nothing  could  exceed  the  desire  of  these  beautiful 
ladies  to  do  me  service.  They  brought  in  a  handsome 
collation  and  delicious  wines ;  after  which  they  enter- 
tained me  with  a  concert  and  dancing.  The  day  follow- 
ing was  spent  in  the  same  manner ;  music,  dancing,  feast- 
ing, and  wantonness  marked  the  moments  as  they  flew; 
and  the  whole  year  passed  away  while  I  thus  indulged  in 
every  species  of  voluptuousness. 

"  At  the  end  of  the  year  I  was  surprised  to  see  the 
ladies  enter  my  apartments,  all  in  great  affliction.  They 
embraced  me  with  much  tenderness,  and  bade  me  adieu. 
I  conjured  them  to  explain  to  me  the  cause  of  their  grief, 
and  of  their  being  about  to  leave  me,  when  one  of  them 
told  me  that  they  were  obliged  to  be  absent  forty  days, 
upon  indispensable  duties  which  they  were  not  permitted 
to  reveal,  and  that  their  sorrow  arose  from  the  apprehen- 
sion that  they  should  see  me  again  no  more.  '  This,'  con- 
tinued she,  'will  wholly  depend  upon  yourself;  here  are 
the  keys  of  a  hundred  doors  which  you  will  find  in  the 
adjoining  courts.  These  we  are  obliged  to  leave  with 
you.  You  will  find  abundance  of  curious  things  within 
ninety-nine  of  these  doors  to  gratify  and  amuse  you, 
which  you  may  enjoy  in  safety;  but  if  you  open  the 
golden  door,  we  shall  never  see  you  again.  And  it  is  this 
fear  lest  you  should  be  overcome  by  an  indiscreet  curios- 
ity, that  gives  us  so  much  disturbance.' 

"  I  embraced  the  ladies  all  around,  and  gave  them  my 
best  thanks  for  a  sorrow  so  very  flattering  to  me.  I  as- 
sured them,  in  the  most  earnest  manner,  that  nothing 
should  induce  me  to  forfeit  their  society,  by  breaking 
their  injunction.     I  received  the  hundred  keys,  and  hav. 


58  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ing  excl  anged  many  farewells,  they  departed,  and  I  was 
left  alone. 

"  My  time  had  been  passed  in  such  a  perpetual  round 
of  pleasure,  that  I  had  not  before  had  the  least  desire  to 
examine  this  inimitable  palace.  As  I  was  now  at  leisure, 
and  had  permission  to  open  ninety-nine  of  the  doors,  I 
began  with  much  eagerness  to  gratify  my  curiosity.  It 
would  be  tedious,  if  it  were  possible,  to  describe  what  I 
found  within  these  doors  :  —  all  that  is  beautiful  in  nature 
or  elegant  in  art  was  there,  in  the  highest  perfection  and 
abundance.  The  wealth,  as  well  in  jewels  as  in  gold,  was 
incredible.  This  immense  display  of  everything  valuable 
and  curious  was  so  extensive,  that  nine-and-thirty  days 
were  passed  by  the  time  I  had  explored  the  ninety-nine 
apartments  I  was  allowed  to  visit. 

"  The  sight  of  such  profusion  of  wealth,  which  I  con- 
sidered as  my  own,  elated  me  beyond  measure ;  and  the 
near  return  of  my  admirable  princesses  dissolved  me  in 
tenderness.  One  day  only  remained,  and  one  door,  tho 
fatal  door,  alone  was  unopened.  My  weak  curiosity  was 
ungovernable.  I  yielded  to  the  temptation.  I  opened 
that  door.  A  smell  that  was  pleasant  enough,  though 
too  powerful  for  me,  overcame  me,  and  I  fainted  away. 
When  I  recovered,  instead  of  taking  warning  and  with- 
drawing, I  went  in.  The  scent  remained,  but  no  longer 
affected  me.  Among  many  objects  that  engaged  my  at- 
tention, I  saw  a  fine  horse,  superbly  caparisoned  ;  I  took 
him  by  the  bridle  and  led  him  forth  into  the  court;  I  got 
upon  his  back  and  would  have  rode  him,  but  he  not  stir- 
ring, I  whipped  him.  He  no  sooner  felt  the  stroke  than 
he  began  to  neigh  in  an  unusual  and  horrible  manner, 
and  extending  wings  which  I  had  not  observed,  he  flew 
up  with  me  into  the  air.  I  had  presence  of  mind  to  sit 
fast.  After  a  while  he  flew  down  again  toward  the  earth, 
and  lighting  upon  the  terrace  of  a  castle,  without  giving 
me  time  to  dismount,  he  shook  me  out  of  the  saddle,  and 
having  with  the  end  of  his  tail  struck  out  T-j  right  eye 
he  flew  again  out  of  my  sight. 

;'  1  got  uf   much  troubled   with   the  misfortune    I   had 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  59 

brought  upon  myself;  I  found  the  castle  was  the  same 
from  which  the  roc  had  carried  me,  and  presently  met  the 
ten  gentlemen,  who  were  not  at  all  surprised  to  see  me,  as 
every  one  of  them  had  passed  through  the  same  advent- 
ure. After  condoling  with  me,  and  lamenting  that  it  was 
not  permitted  them  to  add  me  to  their  number,  they  di- 
rected me  to  seek  the  court  of  Bagdad,  where  I  would 
meet  him  that  would  decide  my  destiny.  Accordingly  I 
put  on  this  dress,  and  arrived  here  this  evening." 

The  third  calendar  having  finished  his  history,  a  dead 
silence  pervaded  the  company.  At  length  Zobeide,  ad- 
dressing the  calendars,  said,  "  Your  adventures,  princes, 
are  indeed  as  singular  as  they  are  distressing;  and  I  am 
very  sorry  it  is  impossible,  after  what  has  happened,  that 
we  should  permit  you  to  remain  any  longer  within  our 
walls ;  but  we  have  also  reasons  for  our  conduct.  Depart 
in  peace ;  and  in  proof  of  our  respect,  take  with  you,  in 
safety,  these  men,  your  companions  in  indiscretion;  who, 
but  for  your  sakes,  should  have  learnt  that  we  are  not  to 
be  insulted  with  impunity." 

At  these  words  the  three  ladies  withdrew,  without  per- 
mitting any  answer;  and  the  slaves  conducting  the  caliph 
and  his  companions,  the  calendars,  and  the  porter,  to  the 
gate,  civilly  dismissed  them.  Haroun  felt  esteem  and 
pity  for  the  unfortunate  princes.  "Without  discovering 
himself,  he  offered  his  services  to  accommodate  them  for 
the  rest  of  the  night,  which  being  thankfully  accepted,  he 
committed  them  to  the  care  of  Mesrour,  and  returned 
with  Giafar  to  his  palace. 

In  the  morning  the  calendars  were  introduced  to  the 
caliph,  and  Giafar  was  dispatched  to  acquaint  the  ladies 
that  the  commander  of  the  Faithful  desired  to  see  them 
immediately.  They  accordingly  attended  him,  and  found 
the  caliph  seated  on  his  throne,  and  the  three  calendars 
placed  on  his  right  hand.  The  ladies  having  paid  their 
homage  to  the  caliph,  that  prince  addressed  them  with 
great  benignity,  and  told  them  he  had  been  one  of  their 
guests  the  preceding  night.  The  ladies  were  covered 
with  confusion  ;  but  the  caliph  praised  their  moderation, 


50  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

afte**  the  incivility  they  had  received.  "  1  was  thi  n,"  saio 
he,  "  a  merchant  of  Maussol,  and  deserved  your  resent- 
ment; but  I  trust  you  will  not  refuse  to  the  caliph  the 
satisfaction  you  at  that  time  so  property  withheld.  Be 
pleased  therefore,  to  relate  the  reason  of  your  whipping, 
and  .afterward  weeping  over  the  two  hitches;  and  why 
one  of  you  has  her  breasts  so  disfigured." 
Zobeide  obeyed  the  caliph  thus:  — 

THE    HISTORY    OF    ZOBEIDE. 

Commander  of  the  Faithful,  my  father  was  a  merchant 
of  this  city,  who,  dying  some  years  ago,  left  his  fortune 
to  be  divided  among  his  five  daughters,  of  whom  myself 
and  the  two  bitches  are  by  one  mother,  and  these  ladies 
by  another. 

Amine  and  Safie,  being  yet  children,  continued  with 
their  mother.  My  two  elder  sisters  and  I  lived  together 
in  great  harmony.  After  some  time  they  both  married; 
being  left  alone,  I  emploj^ed  myself  for  amusement  in 
rearing  silk-worms,  and  became  so  successful  in  my  man- 
agement of  them,  that  I  found  them  not  only  entertain- 
ing, but  exceedingly  profitable. 

In  less  than  a  year's  time,  each  of  my  sisters  returned 
to  me  in  great  distress;  their  husbands  having  squandered 
away  all  their  substance,  had  left  them  to  shift  for  them- 
selves. I  received  them  with  kindness,  and  cheerfully 
shared  with  them  the  money  I  had  gained  by  my  silk. 
As  I  had  experienced  the  advantage  of  traffic,  I  projected 
a  voyage ;  1  bought  a  ship  at  Balsora,  and  freighted  it; 
my  sisters  chose  to  go  with  me,  and  we  set  sail  with  a 
fair  wind. 

Some  weeks  after,  we  cast  anchor  in  a  harbor  that  pre- 
sented itself,  with  intent  to  water  the  ship.  As  I  was 
tired  with  having  been  so  long  on  board,  I  landed  with 
the  first  boat,  and  walked  up  into  the  country.  I  soon 
came  in  sight  of  a  great  town.  When  I  anived  there, 
I  was  much  surprised  to  see  vast  numbers  cf  people  in 
different  postui'es,  but  all  immovable.  The  merchants 
were   in    their  shops,  the   soldiery   on    guard ;   every  one 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  61 

seemed  engaged  in  his  proper  avocation,  yet  all  were 
oecome  as  stone.  At  the  royal  palace  I  found  many  peo- 
ple richly  dressed,  in  various  apartments;  it  was  easy  to 
distinguish  the  king  and  queen  by  the  splendor  of  their 
jewels  and  their  crowns  of  gold.  But  the  same  fate  had 
overtaken  them  which  had  befallen  the  common  people ; 
the  king,  the  queen,  and  their  train  of  courtiers  being  all 
petrified. 

Night  drawing  on,  I  lay  down  on  a  couch.  Early  in 
the  morning  1  heard  the  voice  of  a  man  reading  the  Alco- 
ran, in  the  same  tone  it  is  read  in  our  mosques.  I  arose 
immediately,  and  following  the  voice,  I  found  it  came  from 
an  oratory,  which  had,  as  usual,  a  niche,  that  showed 
where  we  must  turn  to  say  our  prayers.  A  comely  young 
man  was  sitting  on  a  carpet  reading  the  Alcoran  with 
great  devotion.  Being  curious  to  know  why  he  was  the 
only  living  creature  in  the  town,  I  entered  the  oratory,  and 
standing  upright  before  the  niche,  praised  God  aloud  for 
having  favored  us  with  so  happy  a  voyage. 

The  young  man  closed  his  Alcoran,  and  coming  to  me, 
desired  to  know  whence  I  came.  I  acquainted  him;  on 
which  he  proceeded  to  tell  me  that  the  city  was  the  me- 
tropolis of  a  kingdom  governed  by  his  father;  that  the 
king  and  all  his  subjects  were  magi,  worshippers  of  fire 
and  of  Nardoun,  the  ancient  king  of  the  giants,  who 
rebelled  against  God :  "  Though  I  was  born,"  continued 
he,  "  of  idolati*6us  parents,  it  was  my  good  fortune  to  have 
a  woman-governess  who  was  a  strict  observer  of  the 
Mohammedan  religion.  She  taught  me  Arabic  from  the 
Alcoran;  by  her  I  was  instructed  in  the  true  religion, 
which  I  would  never  afterward  renounce. 

"About  three  years  ago,  a  thundering  voice  was  heard 
distinctly  through  the  whole  city,  saying,  '  Inhabitants, 
abandon  the  worship  of  Nardoun  and  of  fire,  and  worship 
the  only  God  who  showeth  meixrv  ! '  This  voice  was  heard 
three  years  successively,  but  no  one  regarded  it.  At  the 
md  of  the  last  year,  all  the  inhabitants^ere  in  an  instant 
changed  into  stone,  every,  one  in  the  posture  he  happened 
to  be  then  in.    1  alone  was  preserved  ;  and*  I  flatter  myself, 


62  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

madam,  that  you  are  sent  liere  to  deliver  me  from  a  soli- 
tary life  which,  1  must  own,  is  very  irksome  to  me." 

I  readily  agreed  to  take  him  to  Bagdad.  I  even  vent- 
ured to  promise  him  an  introduction  to  your  majest}'.  the 
great  vicegerent  of  the  prophet,  whose  disciple  he  was. 
I  conducted  him  to  the  vessel,  which  we  loaded  deeply 
with  gold,  jewels,  and  money  ;  and  having  recruited  our 
water,  we  set  sail  homeward. 

The  young  prince  proved  the  most  amiable  and  agree- 
able of  men.  He  solicited  me  very  earnestly  to  become 
his  wife,  which  I  promised  on  our  arrival  here.  But  my 
sisters  had  each  become  enamored  with  him  :  this  declara- 
tion of  his  reduced  them  to  despair.  Envy  and  jealousy 
took  possession  of  their  breasts,  and  in  the  night  they 
threw  us  both  overboard. 

The  prince  was  di-owned  ;  I  had  the  good  fortune  to 
escape,  and  by  morning  was  driven  on  shore  on  an  unin- 
habited island.  I  dried  my  clothes,  and  went  in  search 
of  some  fruits  to  support  me,  when  I  saw  a  winged  ser- 
pent, which  was  seized  by  a  larger  serpent,  who  endeav- 
ored to  devour  it.  Moved  by  compassion,  I  had  the 
courage  to  take  up  a  stone  and  fling  it  at  the  great  ser- 
pent, which  I  hit  on  the  head  and  killed;  the  other,  find- 
ing itself  at  liberty,  took  wing  and  flew  away. 

In  a  short  time  after,  a  black  woman,  of  good  figure, 
came  toward  me,  leading  two  bitches.  "  I  am,"  said  she, 
"  the  serpent  whom  you  so  lately  delivered  from  my  mor- 
tal enemy ;  in  return  for  that  service,  with  the  assistance 
of  other  fairies,  my  companions,  I  have  already  conveyed 
the  valuable  lading  of  your  vessel  to  your  storehouses  in 
Bagdad  ;  and  to  punish  the  cruelty  and  ingratitude  of  your 
sisters,  I  have  transformed  them  into  these  two  bitches." 
Having  said  this,  she  took  them  under  one  arm  and  me 
under  the  other,  and  in  an  instant  set  us  down  in  my 
h^use.  Before  she  left  me,  she  said,  "If  you  would  not 
share  the  fate  of  iour  wicked  sisters,  I  command  you  in 
the  name  of  him  who  governs  the  sea,  that  you  every 
night  give  each  of  them  a  hundred  lashes  with  a  rod."  I 
am  obliged  to  obey  this  severe  order,  but  my  resentment 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTEUTAT  NMENTS.  63 

having  long  since  subsided,  your  majesty  saw  with  what 
reluctance  I  comply  with  it. 

Zobeide  having  finished  her  story,  Amine  rose  to  satisfy 
the  inquiries  of  the  caliph. 

HISTORY   OF    AMINE. 

Commander  of  the  Faithful,  said  Amine,  my  life,  till 
lately,  contained  no  extraordinary  event.  I  married  early; 
and  on  the  death  of  my  husband,  which  happened  very 
soon  after,  I  found  myself  very  wealthy,  and  determined 
to  continue  independent. 

But  one  day,  as  I  was  engaged  in  my  affairs,  a  vener- 
able lady,  whom  I  had  noticed  at  the  public  baths,  came 
to  my  house  to  request  a  favor  of  me.  "My  daughter," 
said  she,  "  is  to  be  married  to-day.  The  family  of  the 
bridegroom  is  numerous  and  respectable ;  but,  alas !  we 
are  strangers  in  Bagdad.  Vouchsafe,  then,  dear  lady,  to 
be  present  at  the  wedding.  The  ladies  of  your  city  will 
not  despise  us  when  they  see  one  of  your  quality  do  us  so 
much  honor." 

I  readily  consented,  and  she  conducted  me  to  a  hand- 
some house,  where  I  was  received  by  a  young  lady,  whom 
I  supposed  to  be  the  bride.  After  a  few  compliments,  sho 
said,  "You  are  invited  here,  madam,  to  assist  at  a  wedding; 
but  I  hope  you  will  be  more  nearly  concerned  in  one. 
My  brother,  who  is  rich,  honorable,  and  handsome,  has 
fallen  in  love  with  the  fame  of  your  beauty,  and  will  be 
miserable  if  you  do  not  take  pity  on  him  !  "  After  saying 
this,  she  clapped  her  hands,  and  a  young  man  entered, 
whose  graceful  carriage  and  good  figure  strongly  recom- 
mended him.  Not  to  be  tedious  to  your  majesty,  I  suf- 
fered myself  to  be  overcome  by  their  entreaties,  and  be- 
came myself  a  bride,  where  I  thought  of  being  only  a 
guest. 

My  new  husband  exacted  a  promise  from  me  that  I 
would  not  speak  to  or  be  seen  by  any  man  but  himself. 
Soon  after  our  marriage  I  had  occasion  for  some  stuffs ; 
and  having  asked  my  husband's  leave,  I  took  the  old  lady 
I  spoke  of  (who  had  been  his  nurse)  and  two  slaves  to 


64  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  shops  to  buy  some.  The  old  lady  recommended  me  to 
a  merchant,  at  whosb  shop  we  chose  what  we  wanted.  I 
had  kept  my  veil  close,  and  now  desired  the  old  woman 
to  ask  the  price  of  them.  The  merchant  told  her  he  would 
not  sell  them  for  money,  but  if  I  would  permit  him  to  kiss 
my  cheek,  he  would  present  me  with  them.  I  directed 
the  nurse  to  reprehend  him  for  his  audacity;  but  instead 
of  obeying  me,  she  remonstrated  in  his  favor.  As  I  was 
much  pleased  with  the  stuffs,  which  the  merchant  would 
not  let  me  have  on  any  other  terms,  I  foolishly  consented. 

The  old  woman  and  the  slaves  stood  up,  that  no  one 
should  see  it ;  I  put  by  my  veil ;  but  instead  of  a  kiss,  the 
merchant  bit  me  till  the  blood  came. 

The  pain  and  the  surprise  were  so  great  that  I  swooned 
away.  The  merchant  took  that  opportunity  to  abscond; 
and  when  I  recovered,  my  servants  with  difficulty  got  me 
home.  In  the  evening  my  husband  came  to  me,  and  see- 
ing the  wound  in  my  cheek,  asked  me  the  cause  of  it.  I 
was  confounded;  yet  not  willing  to  own  the  truth,  I  said, 
a  porter  carrying  a  load  came  so  near  me  that  one  of  his 
sticks  cut  my  cheek.  My  husband  was  in  a  rage.  "  To- 
morrow," said  he,  "  I  will  give  orders  to  the  lieutenant  of 
the  police  to  seize  all  those  brutes  of  porters  and  hang 
them."  Frightened  at  this,  I  declared  they  were  innocent. 
"How  then  came  your  cheek  wounded?"  replied  he, 
sternly.  "  A  broom-seller,"  said  I,  "  rode  against  me  and 
pushed  me  down."  "Indeed,"  replied  my  husband,  "then 
to-morrow,  the  grand  vizier  shall  have  an  account  of  this 
insolence,  and  shall  cause  all  the  broom-sellers  to  be  put 
to  death."  "Ah!"  said  I,  "  they  are  not  guilty."  "How, 
madam,"  replied  he,  ':  what  is  all  this  ?  I  insist  on  know- 
ing the  truth  immediately."  "  Sir,"  said  I,  "  I  was  taken 
with  a  giddiness  and  fell  down,  and  that  is  the  whole 
matter." 

"  I  have  too  long  listened  to  your  lies,"  exclaimed  he; 
then  clapping  his  bands,  three  slaves  entered,  whom  he 
ordered  to  put  me  to  death.  As  the  slaves  were  in  no 
hurry  to  execute  his  cruel  order,  I  had  recourse  to  i>n. 
treaties  and  prayers,  and  the  nurse  joined  her  supplica- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  66 

tions  in  my  favor.  At  last  he  said  to  her,  "  For  your  sake 
I  will  spare  her  life ;  but  think  not  she  shall  escape  with 
impunity."  At  these  words  he  ordered  two  of  his  slaves 
to  hold  me,  while  the  third  gave  me  so  many  blows  on  my 
sides  and  breast  with  a  little  cane,  that  he  fetched  away 
the  skin  and  flesh.  I  fainted  under  this  severe  discipline. 
While  I  continued  senseless,  he  caused  me  to  be  conveyed 
to  a  poor  habitation,  where  a  strange  slave  attended  me 
till  I  recovered,  and  then  left  me. 

When  I  was  able  to  walk,  I  resolved  to  go  to  my  own 
house,  but  I  found  my  husband,  in  his  wrath,  had  caused 
it  to  be  pulled  down.  I  determined,  therefore,  to  seek  the 
protection  of  my  sister  Zobeide,  who  received  me  with 
kindness,  and  with  whom  1  have  lived  contentedly  ever 
since. 

When  Amine  had  finished  her  narrative,  the  caliph  asked 
Zobeide  if  she  had  any  method  of  communication  with  the 
fairy.  "  I  have,  sir,  a  locket  of  hair,"  replied  she,  "  which 
the  fairy  left  with  me,  telling  me  I  should  one  day  want 
her  presence,  and  if  I  burned  that  hair,  she  would  not  fail 
to  attend  me,  though  she  were  beyond  the  mount  Cauca- 
sus." At  the  request  of  the  caliph,  Zobeide  burned  the 
hair ;  immediately  the  palace  began  to  shake,  and  in  a 
shoi-t  time  the  fairy  appeared  before  the  caliph,  in  the 
shape  of  a  lady  richly  dressed. 

"Handsome  fairy,"  said  the  prince  to  her,  "I  have 
wished  to  see  you,  to  entreat  you  will  release  the  two 
bitches  from  their  present  situation.  I  must  also  beg  you 
will  discover  to  me,  if  you  can,  who  was  that  barbarous 
fellow  who  hath  treated  this  lady  with  so  much  cruelty 
and  injustice.  I  only  wonder  how  such  daring  acts  could 
be  committed  in  defiance  of  my  authority,  and  remain 
unknown  to  me." 

The  fairy  readily  consented;  and  the  two  bitches  being 
produc'ed,  she  took  a  glass  of  water,  and  pronouncing  cer- 
tain words^she  threw  a  part  of  it  upon  them,  and  the  rest 
upon  Amine.  Immediately  they  became  two  beautiful 
women ;  and  the  scars  in  Amine's  bosom  soon  disappeared. 
6*  B 


66  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

The  fairy  then  said,  "  Commander  of  the  Faithful,  the  un- 
known husband  of  this  lady  is  Prince  Amin,  your  eldest 
son.  She  had  been  imprudent;  and  her  excuses  tended 
rather  to  excite  suspicions  of  her  having  been  yet  more 
faulty ;  he  is  not  therefore  without  excuse.  But  now  he 
has  accidentally  heard  the  whole  truth,  he  will  no  doubt 
receive  her  again  to  his  heart."  At  these  words  the  fairy 
saluted  the  caliph  and  disappeared. 

Prince  Amin  came  forward  and  joyfully  accepted  Amino 
from  the  hands  of  his  father.  After  which  the  caliph  in- 
vited Zobeide  to  share  the  throne  of  Persia  with  him,  and 
bestowed  her  other  three  sisters  on  the  three  calendars, 
whom  he  admitted  to  his  counsels,  and  promoted  to  the 
highest  dignities  of  his  empire. 

TIIE    SEVEN    VOYAGES    OF    SINDBAD    THE    SAILOR. 

There  lived  formerly  at  Bagdad  a  poor  porter  called 
Hindbad.  One  day,  when  the  weather  was  excessively 
hot,  he  was  employed  to  carry  a  very  heavy  burden  :  he 
went  through  a  street  where  the  pavement  was  sprinkled 
with  rosewater,  and  there  being  a  pleasant  breeze,  he  laid 
down  his  burden  by  the  side  of  a  great  house,  to  rest  him- 
self. He  enjoyed  the  agreeable  smell  of  the  perfumes,  he 
heard  the  sound  of  many  instruments  playing  in  concert 
and  saw  a  grand  feast  about  to  be  served  up.  As  he  seldom 
passed  that  way,  he  knew  not  whose  house  it  was ;  but 
asking,  was  told  that  it  belonged  to  Sindbad  the  sailor. 

While  Hindbad  thought  this  handsome  building;  be- 
longed  to  some  prince,  he  was  not  disturbed  ;  but  hearing 
it  was  the  property  of  a  person  whom  he  supposed  had 
been  of  his  own  degi*ee,  envy  took  possession  of  his  breast. 
He  returned  sullenly  to  his  load,  and  murmured  against 
Providence,  who  had  given  to  the  happy  Sindbad  a  life  of 
ease  and  luxury,  while  to  him  was  allotted  fatigue  and 
poverty.  While  he  was  expressing  reflections  like  these 
aloud,  two  of  the  servants  came  to  him  and  desired  him  to 
follow  them,  as  their  master,  Sindbad,  wanted  to  speak 
with  him. 

Hindbad  did  not  very  willingly  obey  them  ;  but  as  re- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  67 

sistanee  was  in  vain,  he  suffered  himself  to  be  led  by  tnem 
into  a  great  hall,  where  there  was  a  numerous  company 
at  dinner.  At  the  upper  end  of  the  table  there  sat  a 
comely,  venerable  gentleman,  with  a  long  white  beard, 
this  grave  gentleman  was  Sindbad.  The  porter  be:ng 
introduced  to  him,  Sindbad  caused  him  to  sit  down  at  his 
right  hand,  and  served  him  himself  with  excellent  wine 
and  the  choicest  dainties. 

When  dinner  was  over,  Sindbad  began  to  converse  with 
the  porter;  and  calling  him  brother,  after  the  manner  of 
the  Arabians,  when  they  are  familiar  with  one  another, 
he  asked  him  what  it  was  he  had  said  a  while  ago  in  the 
street?  —  for  Sindbad  had  chanced  to  overhear  his  mur- 
murings.  The  porter,  surprised  at  the  question,  hung 
down  his  head,  and  replied,  "  I  confess,  sir,  my  weariness 
put  me  out  of  humor,  and  I  uttered  some  indiscreet  words, 
which  I  humbly  request  you  to  pardon."  "  I  did  not  send 
for  you,"  replied  Sindbad,  "in  anger;  but  as  I  find  you 
murmur  at  my  having  obtained  the  affluence  I  enjoy,  that 
you  may  not  continue  to  offend  God  by  envy  and  discon- 
tent, I  will  relate  to  you  the  adventures  which  have  gained 
me  all  this  wealth,  and  I  am  inclined  to  think  you  would 
rather  continue  in  your  safe  and  easy  poverty,  than  be 
exposed  to  the  dangers  I  have  gone  through,  though  they 
have  so  greatly  enriched  me." 

sindbad's  first  voyage. 

My  father  left  me  a  decent  fortune,  which  I,  like  many 
inconsiderate  young  men,  greatly  diminished.  Recollect- 
ing myself  in  time,  I  engaged  in  traffic ;  and  joining  with 
several  other  merchants,  we  freighted  a  vessel,  and  set  out 
on  a  trading  voyage.  One  da}7,  while  we  were  under  sail, 
we  were  becalmed  close  to  a  little  island,  almost  even  with 
the  surface  of  the  water,  which  resembled  a  green  meadow. 
The  captain  ordered  the  sails  to  be  furled,  and  permitted 
those  who  chose  it,  to  go  on  shore ;  of  whom  I  was  cue. 

We  had  not  long  landed,  when,  on  a  sudden,  the  ietand 
trembled,  and  shook  us  terribly.  The  people  on  board 
saw  our  situation,  and  called  out  to  us.  to  re-embark  di 


68  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

rectly,  as  what  we  had  taken  for  an  island  was  only  the 
back  of  a  prodigious  fish.  The  nimblest  of  us  got  into  the 
sloop,  others  jumped  into  the  sea,  and  swam  toward  the 
vessel.  For  my  part,  I  was  still  on  the  back  of  the  fish 
when  it  dived  into  the  sea.  I  got  hold  of  a  piece  of  tim- 
ber which  we  had  brought  to  make  a  fire  with,  and  by 
this  assistance  was  preserved  from  sinking,  but  found  it 
impossible  to  recover  the  ship. 

I  continued  in  this  situation  till  the  next  day,  when  I 
made  land,  much  fatigued.  As  I  advanced  from  the  shore, 
I  saw  a  very  fine  mare  feeding;  I  went  toward  her,  when 
sundry  voices  called  out  to  me,  which  seemed  to  come 
from  under  the  ground.  Looking  around,  I  saw  a  hollow 
sunk  in  the  earth,  in  which  were  several  men,  who  re- 
ceived me  with  great  kindness,  and  gave  me  every  neces- 
sary refreshment.  They  were  grooms  to  King  Mihrage. 
Every  year  at  that  season  they  brought  thither  the  king's 
mares,  and  fastened  them  one  by  one  to  a  stake,  till  they 
were  covered  by  a  horse  that  came  out  of  the  sea,  and 
who,  after  having  done  so,  endeavored  to  destroy  the 
mare,  but  was  prevented  and  driven  away  by  the  shouting 
of  the  grooms.  The  foals,  so  procured,  proving  very  ex- 
cellent, were  preserved  for  the  king's  use  only. 

Had  I  been  a  day  later,  I  must  have  perished ;  for  the 
island  was  very  barren,  and  they  bad  so  nearly  finished 
their  business  for  that  year,  that  they  set  out  on  their  re- 
turn the  next  morning.  On  our  arrival  they  presented 
me  to  the  king,  who,  having  heard  my  story,  ordered  me 
to  be  supplied  with  everything  I  stood  in  need  of. 

There  belongs  to  this  king  an  island  named  Cassel ;  they 
assured  me  that  every  night  a  noise  of  drums  was  heard 
there;  whence  the  mariners  fancy  it  is  the  residence  of 
Degial.*  I  had  a  desire  to  see  this  wonderful  place,  and  in 
my  way  thither  saw  fishes  of  a  hundred  and  two  hundred 
cubits  long;  far  from  being  dangerous,  they  fly  from  the 

*  Denial  with  the  Mohammedans,  is  the  same  as  Antichrist  with  us.  They 
have  a  tradition  that  he  will  appear  about  the  end  of  the  world,  and  eonquel 
all  the  earth,  except  Mecca,  Medina,  Tarsus,  and  Jerusalem,  which  are  to  1>« 
preserved  by  angels,  whom  he  shall  set  round  them. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  69 

least  noise.  I  saw  also  other  fishes  about  a  cubit  long, 
which  had  heads  like  owls. 

As  I  was  one  day  at  the  port,  after  my  return,  I  cast 
my  eye  on  some  bales  that  were  unloaded  from  a  vessel 
newly  arrived,  and  presently  I  knew  them  to  be  mine.  I 
sought  the  captain  whom  I  instantly  remembered  ;  but  it 
was  some  time  before  1  could  persuade  him  that  I  was 
Sindbad,  so  confident  was  he  that  he  had  seen  me  perish. 
When  he  was  convinced,  he  restored  me  my  cargo,  which, 
through  the  favor  of  the  king,  1  sold  to  very  great  advan- 
tage. I  loaded  my  part  of  the  vessel  with  the  best  produce 
of  the  country;  and  had  a  safe  and  speedy  passage  home 
where  I  disposed  of  my  merchandise  to  the  value  of  ten 
thousand  sequins.*  I  then  bought  slaves  of  both  sexes, 
built  me  a  fine  house,  resolving  to  forget  the  miseries  I 
had  suffered,  and  enjoy  myself. 

Sindbad  stopped  here,  and  ordered  the  musicians  to  re- 
new the  concert.  In  the  evening  he  gave  the  porter  a 
purse  of  a  hundred  sequins,  and  bid  him  come  the  next 
day  to  hear  more  of  his  adventures.  Hindbad  returned 
home  to  his  family,  blessing  God  for  what  he  had  received 
at  the  hands  of  Sindbad. 

sindbad's  second  voyage. 

I  had  no  intention  of  venturing  the  sea  again  ;  but  I 
soon  grew  weary,  and  ashamed  of  an  inactive  life.  I  em- 
barked therefore  with  some  other  merchants,  and  having 
been  at  sea  some  time,  we  came  to  an  uninhabited  island;  we 
landed  and  dined  very  heartily.  Finding  myself  disposed 
to  sle^p,  I  withdrew  from  the  company  and  laid  myself 
down  in  a  charming  grove.  How  long  I  slept  I  know  not; 
but  when  I  awoke  I  perceived  the  ship  under  sail,  at  such 
a  distance  that  I  soon  lost  sight  of  her. 

My  surprise  and  grief  were  inexpressible:  but  remem- 
bering it  was  of  no  use  to  afflict  one's  self  when  an  evil  is 
unavoidable,  I  resolved  to  suppress  my  unavailing  sorrow. 
I  climbed  up  to  the  top  of  a  great  tree,  that  by  an  extensive 
prospect  I  might  better  judge  of  my  situation.     I  saw  at 

*  The  Turkish  sequin  is  about  two  dollars. 


70  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

no  great  distance  a  large  white  body ;  when  I  approached 
it,  I  found  it  so  very  smooth,  that  it  was  impossible  to 
climb  it.  It  was  fifty  paces  round,  and  of  a  prodigious 
height.  While  I  was  examining  this  phenomenon,  the  sky 
on  a  sudden  became  dark,  and  looking  up  I  saw  a  bird  of 
a  monstrous  size  preparing  to  settle.  I  now  knew  that 
the  bird  was  a  roc,  and  the  smooth  white  substance  was 
its  egg. 

The  bird  alighted,  and  sat  over  the  egg  to  hatch  it.  As 
I  perceived  her  coming,  I  crept  close  to  the  egg,  so  that  I 
had  before  me  one  of  the  legs  of  the  bird,  which  was  as 
big  as  the  trunk  of  a  tree.  I  tied  myself  strongly  to  it 
with  the  cloth  that  went  round  my  turban,  in  hopes  that 
when  the  roc*  flew  away,  she  would  carry  me  to  some 
place  where  I  should  find  inhabitants.  Accordingly,  the 
next  morning,  when  she  took  wing,  she  raised  me  with 
her,  and  when  she  alighted,  I  quickly  untied  the  knot, 
which  I  had  scarce  done,  when  she  flew  away  again,  tak- 
ing in  her  bill  "a  serpent  of  monstrous  length. 

The  place  where  I  was  left  was  a  deep  valley,  surround- 
ed on  all  sides  with  precipices  so  steep  that  it  was  impos- 
sible to  climb  them.  I  soon  found  that  I  was  no  way 
benefited  by  the  exchange.  As  I  walked  along,  I  perceived 
the  ground  was  strewed  with  diamonds  ;  I  examined  them 
with  much  pleasure,  but  presently  saw  objects  which  at 
once  put  an  end  to  all  my  agreeable  ideas,  and  terrified 
me  exceedingly.  These  were  a  number  of  serpents,  each 
capable  of  swallowing  an  elephant.  They  had  now  re- 
tired to  their  dens,  to  avoid  their  enemy  the  roc;  but  I 
had  no  doubt  I  should  have  everything  to  fear  from  them 
at  night. 

I  immediately  sought  a  secure  retreat,  and  was  so  lucky 
as  to  find  one.  In  the  evening,  as  I  expected,  all  the  ser- 
pents left  their  dens,  and  came  hissing  about  my  retreat 
Though  they  could  not  hurt  me,  they  put  me  into  such 
extreme  fear,  that  I  could  not  sleep.    When  the  day  came, 


*  Mark  Paul,  in  his  Travels,  and  Father  Martini  in  his  History  of  China, 
■peak  of  this  hird,  and  say  it  will  take  up  an  elephant  or  a  rhinoceros. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  Tl 

f,V  e  serpents  retired,  and  I  came  out  of  my  cave  trembling; 
and  I  can  truly  say,  that  I  walked  a  long  time  upon  dia- 
monds, without  having  the  least  inclination  to  touch  them. 
At  last,  spent  with  fatigue  and  want  of  rest,  I  was  obliged 
to  lay  down  to  sleep ;  but  had  scarce  shut  my  eyes  when 
I  was  awakened  by  a  great  piece  of  fresh  meat  falling 
close  to  me;  at  the  same  time  I  saw  others  fall  from  the 
rocks  in  different  places. 

This  circumstance  gave  me  immediate  hope  of  escape. 
I  had  always  considered  as  fabulous  the  stories  told  of  the 
valley  of  diamonds,  and  of  the  stratagems  used  by  mer- 
chants to  get  jewels  thence  ;  but  now  I  found  them  true. 
This  valley,  from  the  height,  and  from  the  rocks  which 
bound  it,  being  utterly  inaccessible  to  man,  the  adventur- 
ers come  as  near  as  may  be  at  the  time  eagles  hatch  their 
young,  and,  by  the  help  of  machines,  throw  very  large 
pieces  of  raw  flesh  high  into  the  air  ;  these  falling  upon 
the  diamonds,  their  sharp  points  enter  the  flesh,  and  they 
stick  to  it ;  the  eagles,  which  are  larger  here  than  in  any 
other  country,  convey  these  pieces  of  meat  to  their  nests, 
to  feed  their  young  ;  but  the  merchants  frighten  away  the 
old  bird,  till  they  have  examined  the  prey,  and  taken  away 
the  diamonds  which  may  chance  to  stick  to  it. 

I  now  no  longer  doubted  the  truth  of  this  account.  I 
began  therefore  very  deliberately  to  select  the  largest  and 
clearest  diamonds  I  could  find ;  and  having  filled  my  pro- 
vision bag  with  them,  and  secured  it  to  my  girdle,  I  took 
a  piece  of  meat,  and  tying  it  to  my  back,  I  laid  down  with 
my  face  to  the  ground.  In  a  short  time  one  of  the  eagles 
seized  me,  and  conveyed  me  to  his  nest. 

As  soon  as  the  eagle  had  deposited  me,  the  merchants, 
as  usual,  drove  him  away.  Every  merchant  had  his  dis- 
tinct nest,  which  was  considered  as  his  peculiar  property. 
When  the  owner  of  the  nest  where  I  was  ascended  to  it 
and  saw  me,  he  was  at  first  much  frightened;  but  recov- 
ering himself,  he  began  to  upbraid  me  with  his  disappoint- 
ment ;  he  helped  me,  notwithstanding,  to  descend,  and 
introduced  me  to  the  other  merchants,  who  heard  my 
story  with  amazement. 


72  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

When  the  season  for  throwing  the  meat  was  over,  wo 
all  prepared  to  return  to  our  several  countries.  Before 
we  parted,  I  took  aside  the  merchant  in  whose  nest  I  was 
found,  and  showed  him  the  bag  of  diamonds  I  had  selected 
in  the  valley.  I  told  him  I  considered  him  as  my  deliv- 
erer, and  frankly  offered  to  share  them  with  him.  He 
was  astonished  at  their  size  and  beauty;  but  I  could 
only  prevail  with  him  to  accept  of  one,  and  that  one  of 
the  smallest,  which,  he  said,  would  raise  him  as  great  a 
fortune  as  he  wished  for.  We  parted  perfectly  satisfied 
with  each  other,  and  I  returned  by  the  first  ship  to  Bagdad 

We  touched  at  the  isle  of  Hoha,  where  the  trees  grow 
that  yield  camphor.  These  trees  are  so  large  that  a  hun- 
dred men  may  easily  sit  under  the  shade  of  one  of  them. 
They  bore  a  hole  in  the  upper  part  of  the  tree,  whence 
issues  a  juice  which,  being  received  into  a  vessel,  acquires 
a  consistency,  and  becomes  what  we  call  camphor;  after 
which  the  tree  withers  and  dies. 

There  is  in  this  island  the  rhinoceros,  a  creature  less 
than  the  elephant,  but  greater  than  the  buffalo.  It  has  a 
horn  upon  its  nose  about  a  cubit  long,  which  is  solid  and 
cleft  in  the  middle :  there  are  upon  it  draughts  repre- 
senting the  figures  of  men.  The  rhinoceros  fights  with 
the  elephant,  runs  his  horn  into  his  belly,  and  carries  him 
off  upon  his  head ;  but  the  blood  and  fat  of  the  elephant 
run  into  his  eyes,  and  make  him  blind.  He  falls  to  the 
ground,  and  what  is  very  astonishing,  the  roc  carries  them 
both  away  in  he»  claws,  to  be  meat  for  her  young  ones. 

On  my  arrival  at  Bagdad,  I  gave  large  sums  to  the  poor, 
and  lived  honorably  on  the  vast  riches  I  had  acquired 
with  so  much  danger  and  fatigue. 

Sindbad  gave  the  porter  another  purse  of  a  hundred 
sequins,  and  invited  him  to  return  the  next  day. 

sindbad's  third  voyage. 
I  soon  forgot  the  risks  I  had  run  in  my  two  former  voy- 
ages, and  hating  idleness,  projected  a  third.     I  embarked 
accordingly,  and  after  some  days'  favorable  weather,  we 
were  overtaken  by  a  tempest,  which  drove  us  quite  out 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  73 

of  our  course.  Our  vessel  being  much  shattered,  ve  were 
clad  to  make  the  first  port  to  repair  our  damages. 

We  had  scarce  begun  this  necessary  business,  wt  en  we 
were  beset  in  a  very  extraordinary  manner.  An  innu- 
merable multitude  of  little  frightful  savages  covered  all 
over  with  red  hair,  came  swimming  about  us.  They  were 
not  more  than  two  feet  high,  but  seemed  uncommonly 
strong  and  nimble.  Their  immense  number  and  horrible 
appearance  so  terrified  us,  that  we  suffered  them  to  board 
and  take  possession  of  the  vessel  without  resistance.  This 
was  a  lucky  circumstance  for  us;  for  there  was  no  hope 
of  escaping,  and  we  learned  afterward,  that  if  we  had 
killed  one  of  them,  they  would  have  put  us  all  to  death. 

Having  taken  possession  of  the  vessel,  they  set  us  on 
shore,  and  made  signs  that  we  might  go  where  we  pleased. 
After  which  they  returned  on  board,  and  sailed  to  another 
island  to  which  they  belonged.  We  marched  together 
into  the  country,  and  had  not  advanced  far,  when  we 
came  to  a  great  pile  of  buildings,  which  we  entered.  We 
found  the  doors  and  rooms  uncommonly  lofty;  but  our 
attention  was  soon  engaged  by  an  appearance  equally 
shocking  and  alarming.  On  entering  a  vast  apartment, 
we  found  various  fragments  of  human  bodies,  and  a  par- 
cel of  spits,  on  which  they  had  evidently  been  roasted. 
Though  we  were  much  fatigued,  we  were  about  to  retire 
hastily  from  a  habitation  which  threatened  us  so  dread- 
fully, when  all  power  of  escape  was  taken  from  us,  by  the 
presence  of  the  owner  of  the  mansion. 

He  was  a  tremendous  black  giant,  as  high  as  a  tall 
palm-tree,  with  only  one  eye  in  the  middle  of  his  forehead, 
which  looked  as  red  as  a  burning  coal ;  his  teeth  and  nails 
were  long  and  sharp,  and  his  mouth  resembled  that  of  a 
horse.  The  sight  of  so  frightful  a  figure  rendered  ua 
immovable  with  horror.  After  surveying  us  for  some 
time,  he  took  me  up  by  the  nape  of  the  neck,  and  felt  my 
body  as  a  butcher  would  his  sheep.  Finding  me  very 
thin,  he  set  me  down  and  took  up  another;  at  last,  laying 
nands  on  our  captain,  who  was  fat,  he  thrust  a  long  spit 
through  him,  and  kindling  a  fire,  he  roasted  and  ate  him 
i 


74  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

After  which  he  'retired  to  an  adjoining  room,  where  he 
slept,  and  snored  all  night  like  thunder.  In  the  morning 
he  got  up,  went  out,  and  left  us  in  his  dwelling. 

Our  distress  may  easily  he  imagined.  For  some  time 
we  abandoned  ourselves  to  despair.  But  finding  we  were 
not  confined,  we  divided  ourselves  into  small  parties,  and 
sought  various  hiding-places,  where  we  vainly  hoped  to 
continue  in  safety.  In  the  evening,  the  giant  found  out 
all  our  retreats,  and  collecting  us  together,  drove  us  before 
him  into  his  habitation,  where  another  of  our  companions 
fell  a  sacrifice  to  his  voracious  appetite ;  after  which  he 
retired,  and  slept  as  before. 

The  next  day  we  renewed  our  lamentations,  and  some 
of  the  company  began  to  talk  of  throwing  themselves 
into  the  sea,  rather  than  die  so  strange  a  death.  I  re- 
minded them  that  we  were  forbidden  to  destroy  ourselves. 
That,  as  there  was  a  great  deal  of  timber  floating  on  the 
coast,  we  might  make  small  floats  to  carry  us  to  sea ;  and 
though  the  risk  would  be  great,  yet  our  present  situation 
was  still  more  desperate.  We  set  about  them  immedi- 
ately; but  just  as  they  were  finished,  the  night  approached 
The  giant  again  conducted  us  to  his  cavern,  and  repeated 
his  cruelty. 

While  we  were  busy  in  preparing  our  floats,  I  proposed 
a  scheme  to  my  companions  to  revenge  ourselves  of  this 
monster,  in  case  we  were  obliged,  as  I  feared  we  should 
be,  to  pass  another  night  in  his  power.  Accordingly, 
when  we  heard  him  snore,  ten  of  the  boldest  of  us  took 
each  a  spit,  and  making  the  points  red-hot  in  the  embers 
of  the  fire  where  he  had  roasted  our  friends,  we  thrust 
them  all  at  once  into  his  eye,  and  blinded  him.  He  awoke 
in  great  agonies,  and  making  a  frightful  outcry,  he  felt 
about,  in  hopes  of  sacrificing  us  to  his  fury ;  but  we  took 
care  to  be  out  of  his  reach,  and  finding  he  sought  for  us 
in  vain,  he  groped  for  the  gate,  and  went  out  howling 
dreadfully. 

We  hastened  to  the  sea-side,  and  got  our  floats  into  the 
water ;  but  as  it  was  yet  night,  we  agreed  not  to  put  tq, 
sea  till  daybreak.     We  were  not  without  hope  that  our 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    EN TERTAINMENTS.  75 

eDemy,  whose  howling  we  still  heard,  migtt  die  ;  in  which 
case  we  need  not  risk  our  lives  upon  the  floats,  but  stay 
till  a  better  conveyance  might  be  made.  Day  had  scarcely 
appeared,  when  we  found  it  necessary  to  put  to  sea  with 
all  possible  haste;  for  we  saw  the  blinded  giant  coming 
toward  us,  led  by  two  others  of  his  own  species,  as  large 
and  terrible  as  himself. 

We  rowed  off  immediatel}1- ;  and  having  got  a  little  way 
from  shore,  began  to  congratulate  each  other  on  our  es- 
cape. But  we  were  deceived ;  for  as  soon  as  the  giants 
saw  us,  they  ran  to  the  adjacent  rocks,  and  tearing  away 
huge  masses  of  stone,  they  threw  them  after  us,  and  de- 
stroyed every  float,  except  the  one  on  which  I  was  with 
two  others.  We  were  so  fortunate  as  to  get  out  of  their 
reach,  and  we  thought  ourselves  more  so  when,  the  next 
day,  we  made  an  island  abounding  with  excellent  fruit, 
which  greatly  refreshed  us. 

But  alas!  another  danger  awaited  us,  no  less  fatal  and 
horrid  than  that  which  we  had  fled  from.  As  night  ap- 
proached, we  took  refuge  in  a  cavern  we  had  discovered, 
and  fell  asleep;  but  were  soon  awakened  by  the  approach 
of  a  prodigious  serpent,  who,  seizing  one  of  my  compan- 
ions, notwithstanding  his  utmost  efforts,  crushed  his  bones 
to  pieces  and  swallowed  him  up  before  us  :  after  which 
the  monster  retired,  leaving  us  unhurt,  but  terrified  beyond 
expression. 

The  day  following  we  passed  in  fruitless  endeavors  to 
escape  from  this  new  distress.  But  the  tide  having  driven 
our  float  among  some  concealed  rocks,  we  had  not  strength 
to  disengage  it ;  and  were  obliged,  by  the  approach  of 
night,  to  seek  shelter  on  land.  To  avoid  the  serpent,  we 
sought  out  a  very  high  tree,  which  we  climbed  almost  to 
the  top.  In  a  short  time  the  tremendous  monster  ap- 
peared, hissing  horribly.  He  came  immediately  to  our 
tree,  and  winding  himself  round  the  trunk,  he  ascended 
with  much  ease  till  he  reached  my  companion,  who  fell  an 
unresisting  sacrifice  to  his  voracity 

I  remained  for  this  time  in  safety,  the  serpent  retiring 
when  he  had  devoured  my  comrade.     In  the  morning  J 


76  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

descended  from  the  tree,  and  passed  the  day  in  a  state  of 
stupefying  horror.  Toward  evening  I  began  to  recollect 
my  situation.  I  gathered  together  a  large  quantity  of 
dry  fagot-wood,  with  which  I  formed  a  circle  round  the 
tree.  The  serpent  came  at  the  usual  hour,  but  was  pre- 
vented by  the  rampart  I  had  made  from  approaching  me. 
He  continued  attempting  to  force  his  way  till  day  appeared, 
when  he  retired. 

Though  I  had  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  my  escape, 
yet  the  terror  of  my  situation,  and  even  beyond  that,  the 
poisonous  breath  of  the  serpent,  had  made  the  night  inex- 
pressibly terrible.  Rather  than  pass  such  another,  I  de- 
termined, if  I  could  not  remove  the  float,  to  tear  off  a  single 
plank  and  put  to  sea  upon  it.  I  went  down  to  the  shore 
to  execute  this  purpose,  when  I  saw  a  ship  at  a  consider- 
able distance.  I  presently  loosed  my  turban,  and  displaying 
the  linen,  made  signals  of  distress.  Fortunately  the  captain 
perceived  me,  and  sending  a  boat  for  me,  brought  me  safely 
on  board. 

My  joy  at  this  deliverance  could  only  be  equalled  by 
the  benevolence  of  the  captain  and  merchants,  who  heard 
my  story  with  wonder,  and  relieved  my  necessities  with 
great  liberality.  The  ship  was  of  Balsora,  but  first  bound 
on  a  trading  voyage  to  Salabat ;  I  had  reason,  therefore, 
to  hope  I  should  soon  reach  nry  native  country,  though 
not  with  my  usual  increase  of  fortune.  In  this  last  ex- 
pectation I  was  agreeably  disappointed ;  for  on  opening 
the  cargo  when  we  arrived  at  Salabat,  the  captain,  who 
was  become  much  attached  to  me,  proposed  that  I  should 
undertake  the  management  of  a  part  of  the  cargo  which 
had  belonged  to  a  merchant  who  had  sailed  on  board, 
but  was  dead.  On  receiving  the  bales  into  my  possession, 
I  found  they  were  entered  in  nry  own  name,  and  that  I 
was  actually  on  board  the  same  vessel  in  which  I  had 
sailed  on  my  second  voyage. 

The  captain  soon  remembered  me,  and  restored  very 
readily  all  my  goods,  which  he  had  greatly  improved. 
Thus  I  became  unexpectedly  enriched  Dy  this  voyage.  J 
distributed    li  rgely  of  my  gains  to  my  friends  and  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  77 

poor,  and  had  enough  to  buy  another  considerable  estate 
To-morrow  ('continued  Sindbad,  presenting  the  porter 
with  another  purse)  come  and  hear  my  next  adventure. 

sindbad's  fourth  voyage. 

Industry  was  now  become  habitual  to  me.  I  soon  fitted 
out  another  vessel,  and  again  set  sail.  After  several 
weeks  of  fine  weather,  a  furious  tempest  drove  our  vessel 
on  a  strange  shore.  The  cargo  and  most  of  the  crew  were 
lost,  and  those  who  escaped  were  in  the  utmost  distress. 

Next  morning  the  natives  of  the  country,  who  were 
blacks,  came  down  upon  us  in  a  body,  and  seizing  us,  drove 
us  before  them  a  long  way  up  the  country.  On  our  ar- 
riving at  their  town,  they  gave  us  an  herb,  which  they 
made  signs  for  us  to  eat.  My  companions,  pressed  by 
hunger,  readily  obeyed  ;  but  I,  perceiving  they  themselves 
ate  none  of  it,  and  expecting  no  good  from  such  inhospi- 
table hands,  concealed  what  they  gave  me,  and  only  pre- 
tended to  eat  it. 

They  now  set  us  at  liberty,  and  gave  us  plenty  of  rice 
and  other  provisions,  of  which  they  themselves  also  partook. 
While  1  was  at  a  loss  to  account  for  their  behavior,  I  found, 
on  addressing  myself  to  my  companions,  that  every  one  of 
them  had  lost  his  understanding;  so  baneful  was  the  effect 
of  the  herb  they  had  first  eaten. 

Our  masters  perceived  no  difference  between  me  and 
my  comrades.  They  gave  us  great  abundance  of  food,  of 
which  my  unfortunate  shipmates  ate  greedily,  and  soon 
became  fat.  Then  was  the  mystery  of  our  fate  made  plain. 
The  blacks  were  cannibals;  and  having  first  deprived  ua 
all.  as  they  supposed,  of  our  reason,  they  fatted  us  up  as 
delicacies  for  their  inhuman  feasts.  My  companions  soon 
fell  victims  to  their  cruelty.  But  for  me,  partly  from  the 
horror  of  my  situation,  and  partly  from  my  own  care  in 
eating  no  more  than  was  necessary  to  preserve  life,  I  grew 
every  day  leaner.  The  blacks,  therefore,  put  off  my  des- 
tiny to  a  future  time.  * 

The  barbarians,  not  doubting  but  I  was  bereft  of  under- 
standing, allowed  me  a  great  deal  of  liberty.    One  day,  on 


73  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

some  particular  occasion.,  all  the  inhabitants  went  out  of 
town  together,  except  a  few  feeble  old  people  of  ^  horn  1 
was  in  no  fear.  I  instantly  seized  the  lucky  moment  to 
escape,  and  disregarding  the  outcries  of  those  who  re- 
mained in  the  town,  I  set  off  with  all  possible  speed,  and 
gained  some  neighboring  woods,  which  afforded  me  food 
and  shelter. 

I  travelled  many  days,  avoiding  with  great  care  any 
place  which  seemed  to  be  inhabited.  At  length  I  came 
near  to  the  sea,  and  saw  some  white  people  gathering 
pepper,  which  I  took  for  a  good  omen.  I  went  among 
them  without  scruple,  and  was  overjoyed  to  hear  them 
speak  Arabic. 

These  people  received  me  kindly;  and  when  they  had 
laden  their  ships  with  pepper,  they  took  me  with  them  to 
their  own  country,  and  introduced  me  to  their  king.  I 
was  so  well  treated  by  my  new  protectors,  that  I  soon 
recovered  my  health  and  spirits.  I  became  a  favorite 
with  the  king,  and  a  trivial  matter  greatly  increased  my 
influence  with  him.  I  observed  that  the  prince  and  all 
his  courtiers  rode  their  horses  without  saddle,  bridle,  or 
stirrups.  I  found  workmen,  and  giving  them  proper 
models,  I  caused  all  those  articles  to  be  made,  and  pre- 
sented them  to  the  king,  who  was  highly  pleased  with 
them.  I  made  others  for  all  the  principal  courtiers,  and 
introduced  several  other  mechanical  arts  which  were 
familiar  to  me,  but  entirely  unknown  in  that  country. 

By  these  means  I  conciliated  the  favor  both  of  the  prince 
and  the  people.  The  king  not  only  made  me  very  consid 
erable  presents,  but  being  desirous  that  I  should  settle  in 
his  country,  he  gave  me  for  a  wife  one  of  the  richest  and 
most  beautiful  ladies  of  his  court.  I  durst  not  oppose  the 
royal  pleasure  ;  I  received  the  lady,  therefore,  with  seem- 
ing joy,  and  lived  with  her  in  much  harmony.  But  1 
could  not  forget  my  native  country,  nor  suppress  a  wish 
to  make  my  escape  and  return  thither. 
*  While  these  thoughts  took  up  much  of  my  attention, 
the  wife  of  a  neighbor  with  whom  I  had  become  intimate, 
died.     I  went  to  comfort  my  friend,  and  saluting  him  in 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  19 

the  usual  manner,  I  wished  him  a  long  life.  "  Alas!"  said 
he,  "I  have  not  an  hour  to  live;  I  must  be  buried  pres- 
ently with  my  wife.  Do  you  not  know,"  continued  he, 
"  that  it  is  the  law  of  this  country,  a  law  on  no  account 
ever  violated,  that  the  living  husband  is  interred  with  the 
dead  wife,  and  the  living  wife  with  the  dead  husband?" 

While  he  was  talking  thus  with  me,  his  kindred,  friends, 
and  neighbors  came  to  assist  at  the  funeral.  They  dressed 
the  deceased  in  her  gayest  apparel,  and  ornamented  her 
with  all  her  jewels;  and  having  placed  her  in  an  open  coffin, 
they  began  their  march  to  the  place  of  burial,  the  hus- 
band walking  at  the  head  of  the  company.  They  went  up 
a  high  mountain,  and  near  the  summit  of  it  they  came 
to  a  large  stone  which  covered  the  mouth  of  a  very  deep 
pit.  Having  raised  the  stone,  they  let  down  the  corpse; 
the  husband  then  employed  his  friends,  and  suffered  him- 
self to  be  placed  in  another  open  coffin,  with  a  pitcher  of 
water  and  seven  little  loaves,  and  was  let  down  in  the 
same  manner.  The  ceremony  being  over,  they  covered 
the  hole  with  a  stone,  and  returned  to  the  city. 

Though  I  was  struck  with  terror  and  astonishment  at  this 
barbarous  transaction,  the  rest  of  the  company  were  en- 
tirely unmoved.  Accustomed  to  it  from  their  earliest 
infancy,  they  regarded  it  as  a  matter  of  course.  I  thought 
the  law  so  absurd,  as  well  as  cruel,  that  1  ventured  to 
speak  my  sentiments  on  it  to  the  king;  but  I  found  his 
majesty  immovably  prejudiced  in  its  favor.  "  It  is  a  usage 
here,"  said  he,  "as  universal  as  it  is  ancient;  we  have  no 
trace  how  early  it  began,  nor  a  single  instance  of  an  ex- 
ception from  it,  from  the  sovereign  to  the  meanest  peas- 
ant." "  Strangers,  I  hope,"  replied  I,  "  are  not  subject  to 
this  barbarous  law."  "  Indeed  they  are,"  said  the  king, 
smiling,  "  if  they  marry  in  this  country." 

From  that  hour  I  became  the  prey  of  continual  appre- 
hension. Every  little  indisposition  of  my  wife,  however 
trifling,  alarmed  me.  I  renewed  with  redoubled  earnest- 
ness my  endeavors  to  escape;  but,  as  if  my  conversation 
with  the  king  had  excited  his  suspicions,  I  found  it  im- 
possible to  elude  the  spies  which  everywhere  surrounded 


80  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

me.    In  a  short  time  all  these  apprehensions  were  realized 
My  wife  fell  sick,  and  in  a  very  few  days  died. 

Judge  of  my  feelings  on  this  dismal  occasion.  Flight  01 
resistance  were  alike  impracticable.  The  body  was  im- 
mediately prepared  for  interment;  the  cavalcade  began, 
and  I  was  obliged  to  lead  the  procession.  On  our  arrival 
at  the  fatal  pit,  I  begged  leave  to  address  the  king  and 
his  court,  who,  in  honor  to  me,  attended  the  funeral.  It 
was  granted,  but  to  no  purpose.  In  vain  I  threw  myself 
at  the  monarch's  feet,  pleading  my  past  services.  In  vain 
I  harangued  the  people  on  the  cruelty  and  injustice  of 
subjecting  a  stranger  to  so  barbarous  a  law.  In  vain  I 
urged  that  I  had  another  wife  and  children  in  my  own 
country;  which  plea,  as  good  Mussulmans,  who  allow 
polygamy,  they  ought  to  respect.  Instead  of  being  moved 
by  my  pleas  and  entreaties,  they  only  made  the  more  haste 
to  inter  the  corpse  ;  and  notwithstanding  my  exclamation 
and  outcries,  they  forced  me  into  the  coffin,  and  having 
lowered  me  down,  they  shut  the  mouth  of  the  pit. 

When  I  reached  the  bottom.  I  threw  myself  on  the 
ground  in  a  transport  of  grief.  How  many  hours  I  passed 
in  this  state  I  cannot  tell ;  but  as  nature  will  not  support 
continual  anguish,  I  became  at  length  by  degrees  more 
composed.  I  then  surveyed  my  situation,  and  found,  from 
a  little  light  which  here  and  there  broke  through  the  cav- 
ities of  the  rock,  that  I  was  in  a  cave  of  great  length. 
Innumerable  dry  bones  were  scattered  on  the  ground, 
interspersed  with  jewels  and  trinkets  of  immense  value, 
which  had  been  buried  with  the  different  bodies ;  but  to 
nay  great  surprise,  there  was  no  stench,  which  I  was  then 
at  a  loss  to  account  for. 

Notwithstanding  my  hopeless  situation,  and  the  misery 
I  felt  in  contemplating  it,  something,  I  know  not  what, 
preserved  me  from  absolute  despair.  I  determined  to 
husband  my  bread  and  water  with  the  utmost  care;  and 
actually  managed  it  so  that  it  supported  me  for  many 
days ;  at  length  it  was  quite  exhausted,  and  I  was  just 
resigning  myself  to  death,  when  I  perceived  the  stone  at 
the  mouth  of  the  pit  to  be  removed.     I  had  no  doubt  but 


AIIABTAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  81 

another  f  aneral  was  taking  place.  Instantly  snatching  up 
a  large  hone,  I  concealed  myself  in  the  corner  of  the 
cavern.  I  waited  till  the  second  coffin  was  let  down,  and 
the  pit  covered,  when  finding  a  woman  had  been  buried 
with  her  deceased  husband,  I  gave  the  unfortunate  wretch 
several  blows,  which  speedily  dispatched  her;  and  seizing 
on  her  bread  and  water,  I  became  possessed  of  the  means 
of  preserving  my  life  a  little  longer. 

A  few  days  after,  when  this  store,  so  dreadfully  obtained, 
was  nearly  gone,  as  I  was  sitting  on  my  coffin,  I  heard 
something  walking  and  panting  as  it  approached  from  the 
interior  parts  of  the  cavern ;  which  being  entirely  dark, 
I  had  not  attempted  to  explore.  On  this  occasion,  my 
situation  was  too  desperate  to  admit  of  fear ;  and  I  deter- 
mined to  meet  it.  As  I  advanced,  I  found  the  noise  re- 
treat from  me.  I  continued  to  follow  it,  till  at  length  I 
found  to  my  inexpressible  joy  that  it  led  me  to  a  hole  in 
the  rock  big  enough  for  me  to  escape  through. 

When  I  arrived  in  open  day,  I  threw  myself  on  my 
knees  and  returned  thanks  to  heaven  for  my  deliverance. 
I  found  I  was  on  the  sea-coast,  with  the  immense  moun- 
tain in  which  I  had  been  buried,  between  me  and  the 
town.  I  perceived  also  that  the  creature  I  had  followed 
was  a  sea-monster,  who  had  no  doubt  come  into  the  cavern 
to  feed  on  the  dead  bodies ;  and  thence  I  could  account 
for  the  air  of  that  dismal  place  being  so  little  noxious. 
Having  refreshed  myself  plentifully  with  the  fruits  I 
found  on  the  mountain,  I  had  the  courage  to  penetrate 
the  cavern  again,  and  bring  awa}''  part  of  the  jewels  and 
other  treasures  it  contained.  I  did  so  repeatedly  for  some 
days,  and  made  up  several  bales  of  them  with  the  apparel 
I  found  in  the  cavern.    - 

Soon  after  I  was  so  lucky  as  to  discover  a  ship.  My 
signals  were  seen  on  board,  and  a  boat  sent  to  my  relief, 
which  conveyed  me  and  my  bales  to  the  vessel.  As  neither 
th«  captain  nor  crew  were  very  inquisitive,  they  were  sat- 
isfied with  a  loose  account  I  gave  them,  of  my  having  been 
shipwrecked  where  they  found  me.  We  had  a  short  and 
agreeable  passage,  and  arrived  safely  at  Bagdad.     I  hand* 


82  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

Bomely  rewarded  my  deliverers,  nor  did  I  forget  to  dif*. 
tribute  part  of  my  wealth  among  my  friends  and  the 
necessitous. 

Sindbad  baving  finished  his  relation,  gave  the  porter 
another  purse,  and  another  invitation  to  bear  his  further 
adventures. 

sindbad's  fifth  voyage. 

By  this  time  my  name  became  celebrated  as  a  bold  nav- 
igator and  fortunate  merchant.  My  vanity  was  so  highly 
gratified  by  these  distinctions,  that  I  determined  to  sup- 
port my  claim  to  them  by  undertaking  another  voyage. 

Accordingly,  I  fitted  out  and  loaded  a  stout  ship,  of 
larger  burden  than  any  I  had  sailed  in  before.  We  had 
been  several  weeks  at  sea  before  we  made  land,  and  at 
last  touched  at  a  desert  island,  where  we  found  an  egg  of 
a  roc.  There  was  a  young  roc  in  it  almost  hatched,  as  the 
bill  began  to  appear. 

As  we  had  been  for  some  time  confined  to  salt  provi- 
sions, the  sailors  determined  to  have  a  feast.  Accordingly, 
they  broke  the  egg  with  hatchets,  and  cutting  away  large 
pieces  of  the  young  roc,  they  roasted  them  and  regaled 
themselves.  I  earnestly  persuaded  them  in  vain  from 
this  rash  measure ;  however,  when  they  had  gratified 
their  desires,  they  listened  to  my  advice;  which  was,  to 
hasten  on  board,  and  sail  directly  away  before  the  old 
roc  should  return.  We  embarked,  and  got  under  way 
with  all  diligence  5  but  we  scarce  had  weighed  anchor, 
when  we  saw  the  male  and  female  rocs  appear  at  a  dis- 
tance, like  two  large  clouds.  When  they  approached 
their  egg  and  found  it  broken,  the  noise  they  maae  was 
tremendous. 

They  rose  again  immediately  into  the  air,  and  flew 
away,  so  that  we  lost  sight  of  them,  and  began  to  think 
we  had  nothing  to  apprehend.  These  hopes  were  soon 
at  an  end :  in  a  very  little  time  we  saw  them  approaching 
us  slowly  ;  when  they  drew  near  we  discovered  too  plainly 
the  cause  of  this  delay ;  they  carried  between  their  talons, 
stones,  or  rati  er  rocks,  of  a  prodigio  irf  size.     When  they 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  83 

came  directly  over  our  ship,  they  hovered,  and  one  of 
them  let  fall  the  stone  she  held,  which,  by  the  dexterity 
of  the  steersman,  we  evaded.  But  the  other  roc  was  mere 
successful.  His  stone  fell  in  the  middle  of  the  ship,  which 
it  split  into  a  thousand  pieces. 

All  the  crew  were  either  killed  by  the  fall  of  the  stone, 
or  sunk  very  deep  into  the  sea.  The  latter  was  my  fate  ; 
I  continued  so  long  under  water  that  I  was-  almost  spent, 
but  on  regaining  the  surface  I  found  a  piece  of  the  wreck 
near  me.  I  immediately  got  upon  it,  and  committing 
myself  to  the  mercy  of  the  waves,  I  had  the  good  fortune 
next  day  to  get  on  shore  on  an  island,  the  most  beautiful 
and  fertile  I  had  ever  seen. 

The  whole  country  appeared  a  delicious  garden,  abound- 
ing with  the  choicest  fruit-trees.  I  refreshed  myself  plen- 
tifully, and  afterward  resigned  myself  to  sleep.  The  next 
day  I  awoke,  fully  recovered  from  my  fatigue,  but  much 
grieved  for  the  loss  of  my  companions. 

As  the  country  was  so  pleasant,  I  resolved  to  penetrate 
further  into  it  in  search  of  inhabitants.  I  had  not  ad- 
vanced far  when,  coming  to  the  bank  of  a  stream,  I  saw 
a  little  old  man,  who  seemed  to  be  very  weak  and  feeble. 
I  saluted  him,  which  he  returned  by  bowing  his  head,  and 
making  signs  for  rne  to  take  him  on  my  back  and  carry 
him  over  the  brook.  I  thought  he  wanted  assistance,  and 
readil}r  complied,  and  when  on  the  other  side,  I  stooped 
that  he  might  get  off  with  the  greater  ease;  but  instead 
of  doing  so,  he  clasped  his  legs  nimbly  about  my  neck. 
His  skin  appeared  as  impenetrable  as  iron  :  he  sat  astride 
on  my  shoulders,  and  held  me  so  close  that  I  thought  he 
would  have  strangled  me. 

The  surprise  and  terror  of  my  situation  overcame  me. 
I  fainted  and  fell  down ;  notwithstanding  which,  the  old 
man  continued  on  my  shoulders.  When  he  found  I  had 
recovered,  he  struck  me  so  severely  with  his  feet,  that  I 
was  obliged  to  rise,  and  carry  him  where  he  pointed.  At 
night  he  made  signs  to  me  to  lie  down,  he  continuing  hia 
hold  about  my  neck;  and  in  the  morning,  when  he  wished 
to  rise,  he  struck  me  with  his  feet,  as  a  signal  to  get  up, 
with  him  or.  my  shoulders. 


64  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

In  this  manner  I  continued  for  a  considerable  time,  bur- 
dened with  the  execrable  old  fellow,  who  never  left  me  for 
a  single  moment.  One  day  I  found  in  my  way  some  dry 
calabashes;  I  took  a  large  one,  and  having  cleaned  it,  I 
filled  it  with  the  juice  of  grapes,  and  set  it  in  a  convenient 
place.  Some  time  after,  I  returned  thither,  and  found  my 
wine  very  good.  I  drank  heartily  of  it,  which  raised  my 
spirits,  and  I-began  to  sing  and  dance  as  1  walked  along. 

The  old  man,  perceiving  what  effect  the  wine  had  upon 
me,  made  signs  for  me  to  give  him  some.  I  gave  him  the 
calabash,  and  he  was  so  pleased  with  the  liquor  that  he 
drank  it  all.  The  fumes  of  it  presently  got  into  his  head, 
he  became  drunk,  and  sat  with  his  legs  much  looser  about 
me  than  usual.  I  seized  the  opportunity,  and  suddenly 
threw  him  off.  He  fell  to  the  ground  in  a  state  of  insen- 
sibility, and  with  a  large  stone  I  crushed  his  head  to  pieces. 

I  rejoiced  exceedingly  at  my  deliverance,  and  regaining 
the  sea-coast,  I  met  with  the  crew  of  a  ship,  who  had  cast 
anchor  to  take  in  water.  From  them  I  learned  that  my  late 
situation  had  been  more  dangerous  than  I  had  thought  it. 
"You  fell,"  said  they,  "into  the  hands  of  the  Old  Man  of 
the  Sea,  and  are  the  only  one  that  ever  escaped  strangling 
by  him  ;  as  he  never  left  any  he  had  once  mastered  till 
their  strength  was  exhausted,  when  he  failed  not  to  de- 
stroy them." 

The  captain  of  the  vessel  received  me  very  kindly,  and 
readily  gave  me  a  passage  to  the  port  he  was  bound  to.  My 
good  fortune  did  not  forsake  me.  When  we  landed,  I  was 
permitted,  through  the  interest  of  the  captain,  to  join  a 
body  of  adventurers  of  a  singular  kind.  I  had  a  large 
bag  given  me,  and  was  advised  to  follow  the  example  of 
my  companions,  and  by  no  means  to  separate  from  them, 
as  I  valued  my  life. 

"We  went  together  to  a  neighboring  forest,  the  trees  of 
which  were  very  straight  and  tall,  and  so  smooth,  it  was 
impossible  for  any  man  to  climb  them.  As  we  drew  near, 
we  saw  a  great  number  of  apes,  who  fled  from  us  and 
climbed  the  trees  for  safety.  We  pelted  the  apes  with 
Btones,  who  in  return  threw  at  us  cocoa-nuts,  which  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  85 

trees  bore  in  great  plenty ;  and  thus,  through  the  indig- 
nation of  the  animals,  we  were  supplied  with  those  valu- 
able fruits,  which  our  utmost  industry  could  not  otherwise 
have  obtained. 

By  diligently  folio  ving  this  avocation,  I  soon  got  to- 
gether a  very  considerable  cargo  of  cocoa-nuts.  1  sailed 
with  these  to  another  port,  where  I  exchanged  them  for 
pepper  and  aloes,  and  after  some  time  arrived  at  Balsora, 
very  considerably  enriched. 

To-morrow  (continued  Sindbad,  giving  the  porter  his 
customary  present)  I  will  relate  to  you  my  next  adventure. 

sindbad's  sixth  voyage. 

Some  time  after  my  arrival,  a  few  merchants,  my  very 
particular  friends,  agreed  on  a  voyage;  and  they  never 
ceased  importuning  me  till  I  consented  to  go  with  them. 

For  some  time  we  had  pleasant  weather.  We  sailed 
many  days  without  seeing  land,  but  having  a  perfect  re- 
liance on  our  captain,  we  were  without  uneasiness.  At 
length  the  ship  was  forced  along  by  a  strong  current. 
The  moment  the  captain  perceived  it,  he  exclaimed,  "  We 
are  all  lost!"  He  immediately  ordered  all  the  sails  to  be 
set  a  contrary  way,  but  in  vain  ;  the  ropes  broke  to  pieces. 
The  ship,  in  spite  of  our  utmost  efforts,  continued  to  be 
forced  on  by  the  current,  till  we  came  to  the  foot  of  a 
mountain,  where  she  ran  ashore,  and  was  presently  beat 
+o  nieces. 

jlost  of  the  crew  perished;  the  captain,  two  seamen,  and 
myself  only  escaped  ;  and  all  but  me  were  much  bruised. 
The  captain  told  us  tbat  all  hope  of  escape  from  that 
place  was  vain,  as  the  current  set  in  so  strongly  to  the 
shore,  that  no  vessel  could  possibly  sail  against  it.  This 
dr's^ourse  of  his  afflicted  us  exceedingly;  and  indeed,  what 
V&3  saw  too  strongly  confirmed  it.  The  whole  shore  was 
covered  with  wrecks  of  vessels,  and  with  the  bones  of  men 
who  had  evidently  perished  thei*e.  The  incredible  quan- 
tity of  riches  with  which  the  strand  was  covered,  onlj 
served  to  aggravate  our  sorrows.  Whether  it  was  from 
this  melancholy  prospect,  or  from  the  bruises  they  had 
8 


86  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

received,  I  know  not;  but  the  next  day  the  two  sailors 
died,  and  the  day  following  the  captain  also  expired,  so 
that  I  was  left  alone  in  this  terrible  situation. 

But  I  had  been  too  much  used  to  misfortunes  to  despair. 
1  began,  therefore,  to  survey  the  shore,  and  to  cast  about 
in  my  mind  for  a  possibility  of  relief.  On  examining  the 
mountain.  I  soon  found  that  all  hope  of  climbing  it  was  in 
vain,  for  it  was  not  only  stupendously  high,  but  in  many 
parts  absolutely  perpendicular.  The  account  of  the  cur- 
rent setting  in  everywhere  to  the  shore,  I  found  also  to 
be  true.  I  had  almost  given  up  every  hope,  when  I  dis- 
covered a  rivulet  of  fresh  water,  which,  instead  of  running 
into  the  sea,  penetrated  the  bottom  of  the  mountain.  To 
this  place  I  with  much  labor  brought  pieces  of  the  wreck, 
and  formed  a  large  and  strong  float.  Having  secured  this 
properly,  I  went  in  search  of  provisions.  I  found  shell- 
fish in  great  abundance;  I  conveyed  a  large  quantity  of 
these  on  board  my  float,  resolving  to  trust  myself  on  it, 
and  take  the  chance  whither  the  current  might  convey 
me.  Before  I  embarked,  I  collected  great  quantities  of 
diamonds,  rubies,  emeralds,  and  ambergris ;  these  I  formed 
into  bales,  and  fastened  strongly  on  board  my  vessel,  and 
cutting  the  cable,  committed  myself  to  fortune. 

The  stream  conveyed  me  into  a  hollow  passage,  under 
the  mountain,  which  was  entirely  dark.  I  sailed  many 
days  in  this  situation,  husbanding  my  shell-fish  with  great 
care.  My  food  was  at  last  exhausted ;  I  grew  faint,  and 
insensibly  fell  into  a  deep  sleep.  How  long  it  continued  I 
know  not,  but  when  I  awoke,  I  found  my  float  drawn  on 
shore,  and  myself  surrounded  by  a  great  number  of  ne- 
groes. I  arose,  and  saluted  them;  tbey  spoke  to  me,  but 
I  could  not  understand  them;  yet  I  was  so  transported 
with  joy  that  I  repeated  aloud  in  Arabic,  "  Call  upon  the 
Almight}^,  and  he  will  help  thee  ;  thou  needest  not  perplex 
thyself  in  trouble,  for  God  can  change  thy  bad  fortune 
into  good." 

Happily  one  of  the  negroes  understood  Arabic  ;  from 
him  I  learned  that  my  float  having  been  discovered  in  the 
river,  they  had  drawn  it  on  shore  ;  but  finding  me  fast 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS  87 

<«steep,  they  had  waited  till  I  awoke.  He  then  requested 
that  1  would  tell  them  by  what  accident  I  came  into  such 
a  situation.  I  related  my  story,  which  the  black  inter- 
preted to  them.  When  I  had  finished,  they  desired  I 
would  suffer  them  to  conduct  me  to  the  king,  that  I  might 
relate  sc  extraordinary  an  adventure  to  him  myself.  I 
cheerfully  consented,  on  which  they  furnished  me  with  a 
horse,  and  while  some  of  them  attended  me,  others  con- 
trived to  convey  my  float  and  cargo  after  me.  I  was  very 
favorably  received  by  the  king,  and  thankfully  accepted 
his  invitation  of  reposing  some  time  in  his  court  to  recover 
from  my  fatigue.  During  this  time,  I  made  a  pilgrimage 
to  the  place  where  Adam  was  confined  after  his  banish- 
ment from  paradise. 

The  island  was  called  Serendib  ;  it  is  exceedingly  pleas- 
ant and  fertile.  The  people  were  hospitable,  and  so  just 
that  lawsuits  are  unknown  among  them.  The  magnifi- 
cence of  the  palace,  and  the  splendor  of  their  prince,  when 
he  appears  in  public,  are  truly  admirable.  On  this  occa- 
sion, the  king  has  a  throne  fixed  on  the  back  of  an  elephant ; 
before  him  an  officer  carries  a  golden  lance  in  his  hand, 
and  behind  the  throne  there  is  another  who  supports  a 
column  of  gold ;  the  guard  amount  to  a  thousand  men,  all 
clad  in  silk  and  cloth  of  gold.  While  the  king  is  on  his 
march,  the  officer  who  carries  the  lance,  cries  out  occa- 
sionally, "Behold  the  great  monarch;  the  potent  and 
redoubtable  sultan  of  the  Indies;  whose  palace  is  covered 
with  an  hundred  thousand  rubies,  and  who  possesses' 
twenty  thousand  crowns,  enriched  with  diamonds;  behold 
the  crowned  monarch ;  greater  than  the  greatest  of 
princes!"  After  which  the  officer  who  is  behind,  cries 
out,  "  This  monarch,  so  great,  so  powerful,  must  die,  must 
die,  must  die!"  The  officer  who  is  before  replies,  "Praise 
be  to  him  who  liveth  forever ! " 

After  I  had  continued  some  time  in  the  capital,  I  re- 
quested the  king's  permission  to  return  to  rm^  own  country, 
which  he  immediately  granted,  in  the  most  obliging  and 
most  honorable  manner.  He  forced  me  to  accept  a  very 
rich  present ;  and  at  the  same  time  intrusted  to  my  care, 


50  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

one  of  immense  value,  which  he  directed  me  to  present 
with  a  letter,*  in  his  name,  to  our  sovereign,  the  caliph 
Haroun  Alraschid. 

Our  voyage  was  short  and  pleasant.  I  had  the  honor 
to  deliver  the  letter  and  present  of  the  king  of  Serendib 
to  the  commander  of  the  Faithful ;  after  which  I  retired  to 
my  own  dwelling,  rejoicing  with  my  friends,  to  whom  and 
to  the  poor  I  was  bountiful,  and  resolving  to  pass  the  rest 
of  my  days  among  them. 

Sindbad  presented  the  porter  as  before  with  a  hundred 
sequins,  and  desired  him  to  attend  the  day  following,  to 
hear  an  account  of  his  last  voyage. 

sindbad's  seventh  voyage. 

I  had  now  determined  to  go  no  more  to  sea.  My  wealth 
was  unbounded,  my  reputation  established,  my  curiosity 
amply  gratified,  and  my  years  began  to  require  rest;  so 
that  1  thought  only  of  enjoying  the  fruit  of  my  former 
toils  and  dangers.  But  the  caliph  sending  for  me,  told  me 
he  had  resolved  to  answer  the  letter  of  the  king  of  Serendib, 
and  to  return  him  a  present  of  equal  value  to  that  which  I 
had  brought  him,  and  that  he  had  fixed  on  me  to  be  the 
bearer  of  it. 

I  wished  much  to  be  excused,  and  for  that  purpose  re- 
lated to  the  caliph  the  many  perils  I  had  been  in.  The 
commander  of  the  Faithful  expressed  his  surprise  and 
satisfaction  at  my  narrative;  but  persisting  in  his  desire, 
I  cheerfully  prepared  to  obey  his  commands. 

As  soon  as  the  caliph's  letter  -j-  and  present  were  ready, 

*  The  contents  of  the  king  of  Serendib's  letter  were:  "The  king  of  the 
Indies,  before  whom  march  an  hundred  elephants,  who  lives  in  a  palace  that 
shines  with  an  hundred  thousand  rubies,  and  who  has  in  his  treasury  twenty 
thousand  crowns  enriched  with  diamonds;  to  the  caliph  Haroun  Alraschid. 

"  Though  the  present  we  send  yon  be  inconsiderable,  receive  it,  however, 
as  a  brother  and  a  friend,  in  consideration  of  the  hearty  friendship  which  we 
bear  you,  and  of  which  we  are  willing  to  give  you  proof.  We  desire  the  samfl 
part  in  your  friendship,  considering  that  we  believe  it  to  be  our  merit,  being 
of  the  same  dignity  with  yourself.  We  conjure  you  this  in  quality  of  a 
orother.     Adieu." 

f  The  caliph's  letter  was  as  follows:  "Greeting,  in  the  name  of  the  Sov- 
ereign Guide  of  the  right  way,  tr  the  patent  and  happy  "sultan,  from  Abdallnt 


ARABIAN    SIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  89 

I  set  sail,  and  after  a  safe  and  pleasant  voyage  I  arrived 
at  the  island  of  Serendib,  and  discharged  my  commission. 
The  king  received  me  in  the  most  distinguished  manner, 
and  expressed  himself  much  pleased  with  the  caliph's 
friendship.  I  stayed  a  short  time  at  the  palace,  and  then 
re-embarked  for  Balsora,  but  had  not  the  good  fortune  tc 
arrive  there  as  I  hoped.   Providence  ordered  it  otherwise. 

Within  three  days  of  our  departure,  we  fell  in  with  a 
corsair,  who  took  us  captives,  and  carrying  us  into  port, 
sold  us  all  for  slaves.  I  was  bought  by  a  wealthy  mer- 
chant, who  treated  me  very  kindly.  He  inquired  if  I  un- 
derstood the  use  of  the  bow,  and  seemed  much  pleased 
when  I  told  him  it  had  been  one  of  the  exercises  of  my 
youth,  and  that  I  had  always  delighted  in  it.  He  gave 
me  a  bow  and  arrows,  and  carried  me  to  a  vast  forest. 
"Climb  up,",  said  he,  "one  of  these  trees.  This  forest 
abounds  with  elephants;  as  they  come  within  bow-shot, 
shoot  at  them,  and  if  any  one  falls,  come  and  give  me 
notice." 

I  continued  in  the  tree  all  night.  In  the  morning  I  saw 
many  elephants,  and  shot  at  them ;  at  last  one  dropped. 
I  hastened  to  acquaint  my  patron  with  my  success,  who 
commended  my  dexterity,  and  caressed  me  very  much. 
We  returned  to  the  forest,  and  buried  the  elephant  in  the 
earth  ;  my  patron  intending  to  take  away  the  teeth,  when 
the  body  was  decayed,  to  trade  with. 

For  two  months  I  continued  to  kill  an  elephant  every 
day,  sometimes  from  one  tree,  sometimes  from  another. 
One  morning,  while  I  was  looking  out  for  them,  I  per- 
ceived they  did  not  cross  the  forest  as  usual,  but  came  in 
great  numbers  directly  toward  the  tree  where  I  was. 
Their  approach  alarmed  me  so  much  that  my  bow  and 
arrows  fell  out  of  my  hand ;  and  my  terror  greatly  in- 
creased when  one  of  the  largest  of  them  wound  his  trunk 


Haroun  Alraschid,  whom  God  hath  set  in  the  place  of  honor,  after  his  ances- 
tors of  happy  memnry. 

"  We  received  your  letter  with  joy.  and  send  you  this  from  the  council  of 
«ur  port,  the  garden  of  superior  wits.     We  hope  when  you  look  upon  it,  yr.u 
will  find  our  good  intention,  and  be  pleased  with  it.     Adieu." 
8* 


90  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT*. 

round  (he  body  of  the  tree  in  which  I  .was,  and  pulled  so 
strong  that  he  soon  tore  it  up  by  the  roots,  and  threw 
it  on  the  ground.  As  I  was  falling  with  the  tree,  1  gave 
myself  up  for  lost ;  but  the  elephant,  when  I  reached  the 
earth,  took  me  up  gently,  and  placed  me  on  his  back.  He 
then  went  at  the  head  of  his  companions  into  the  heart 
of  the  forest,  when  stopping  suddenly,  he  took  hold  of  me 
with  his  trunk,  and  sat  me  down  on  the  ground.  Imme- 
diately he  and  all  his  companions  retired  and  left  me. 

1  had  been  so  extremely  agitated  during  these  transac- 
tions, that  it  was  a  considerable  time  before  I  recovered 
the  use  of  my  faculties.  When  I  became  composed  enough 
to  look  about  me,  I  found  I  was  upon  a  long  and  broad 
hill,  covered  all  over  with  the  bones  and  teeth  of  ele- 
phants. I  could  not  but  admire  the  wonderful  instinct 
of  these  sagacious  animals.  They  had  perceived,  no 
doubt,  that  we  buried  such  of  their  companions  as  we 
killed,  and  afterward  opened  the  earth,  and  took  away 
their  teeth ;  I  concluded,  therefore,  that  they  had  con- 
ducted me  to  their  burial-place,  that  we  might  obtain  our 
desires  without  persecuting  them. 

I  returned  to  the  city,  and  found  my  patron  in  great- 
trouble  about  me.  I  related  to  him  my  adventure,  which 
he  would  hardly  believe.  We  set  out  next  morning  for 
the  hill,  where  he  soon  found  everything  I  had  told  him 
was  true.  We  took  away  with  us  ivory  to  a  great  value ; 
and  on  our  return  to  the  city,  my  patron  embraced  me, 
and  said,  "Brother,  God  give  you  all  happiness;  I  declare 
before  him  that  I  will  give  you  your  liberty.  I  will  not 
hold  in  bondage  a  moment  longer  the  man  who  hath  so 
greatly  enriched  me." 

"  Know  now,"  continued  he,  "  the  perilous  service  you 
have  been  engaged  in.  We  buy  slaves  here  solely  for  the 
purpose  of  procuring  us  ivory;  and  notwithstanding  all 
our  care,  the  elephants  every  year  kill  a  great  many  of 
them.  You  have  been  preserved  most  marvellously  from 
their  fury.  Think  not  that  by  restoring  you  to  freedom, 
I  suppose  you  sufficiently  rewarded ;  when  I  procure  you 
a  vessel  to  convey  you  home,  you  will  find  me  more  sub- 
stantially grateful." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  91 

Agreeably  to  this  promise,  my  patron  was  diligent  in 
providing  me  with  a  ship ;  and  having  met  with  one,  he 
freighted  it  with  ivory,  and  gave  me  both  the  vessel  and 
cargo;  we  parted  with  mutual  expressions  of  regard,  and 
in  a  short  time  I  returned  home,  with  another  great  addi- 
tion to  my  fortune.  On  my  arrival  at  Bagdad,  I  waited 
on  the  caliph,  and  related  my  adventure  to  him,  which  he 
heard  with  much  pleasure.  He  dismissed  me  very  gra- 
ciously, and  I  have  since  devoted  my  time  wholly  to  my 
family,  kindred,  and  friends. 

Sindbad  having  finished  the  relation  of  his  voyages, 
addressed  himself  to  Hindbad  thus  :  "You  now  know  by 
what  means  I  have  acquired  the  opulence  you  envied  me. 
Say,  have  I  not  gained  it  through  dangers  more  than  equal 
to  its  value;  and  ought  I  not  to  enjoy  nryself?"  The  porter 
modestly  owned  the  truth  of  Sindbad's  reasoning,  adding 
due  praises  to  his  generosity,  and  prayers  for  his  future 
welfare.  Sindbad  repeated  his  present  of  a  hundred  se- 
quins. His  liberality  had  raised  Hindbad  from  his  pen- 
ury, and  finding  him  worthy  of  esteem,  the  generous 
sailor  received  him  among  the  number  of  his  intimate 
acquaintances. 

t 

THE    HISTORY    OF    THE    THREE    APPLES. 

In  one  of  those  evening  excursions,  which  the  caliph 
Haroun  Alraschid  frequently  made  about  his  capital  in  dis- 
guise, he  saw  a  man,  with  some  nets  over  his  shoulder,  walk- 
ing slowly  along.  Something  disconsolate  in  his  air  at- 
tracted the  attention  of  the  caliph,  who  asked  him  famil- 
iarly why  he  was  so  sad.  "I  am  a  fisherman,"  replied  he, 
"and  am  just  landed  from  a  day's  severe  and  fruitless  toil. 
My  sorrow  arises  from  my  disappointment,  having  a  large 
family,  who  depend  upon  my  labor,  which  to-day  hath 
been  thrown  awaj^."  "  If  you  are  not  too  much  fatigued," 
replied  the  caliph,  "and  will  cast  your  nets  once  more,  7 
will  give  you  a  hundred  sequins  for  the  haul,  whether 
successful  or  not."  The  fisherman  heard  the  offer  of  so 
large  a  reward  with  equal  joy  and  surprise,  and  readily 
returned  to  t\  e  Tigris,  accompanied  by  the  caliph,  Giafar, 
and  Mesrour. 


92  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

The  fisherman  threw  in  his  nets,  and  brought  up  & 
trunk,  close  shut  and  very  heavy.  The  caliph  ordered 
che  vizier  to  pay  him  the  hundred  sequins,  and  directed 
Mesrour  to  convej7,  the  trunk  to  the  palace,  whither  he 
also  retired,  impatient  to  examine  the  contents  of  it; 
which,  to  his  amazement,  he  found  to  be  the  body  of  a 
beautiful  young  lady,  divided  into  quarters. 

The  wonder  of  the  caliph  soon  changed  into  fury  against 
his  vizier.  "Wretch,"  said  he,  "is  it  thus  you  watch  over 
the  police  of  my  capital,  intrusted  to  your  peculiar  care? 
Are  such  impious  murders  committed  with  impunity,  al- 
most in  our  presence  ?  Bring  to  justice  within  three  days," 
continued  the  enraged  caliph,  "  the  murderers  of  this 
woman,  or  thou  and  forty  of  thy  kindred  shall  die  by  the 
hand  of  the  executioner." 

The  consternation  of  the  vizier  was  extreme.  He  knew 
the  violent  temper  of  his  master  too  well  to  expect  any 
good  from  expostulation.  He  set  about  the  inquiry,  there- 
fore, witfe  the  utmost  diligence  ;  he  took  the  assistance  of 
all  the  officers  of  justice  in  Bagdad.  The  search  was  rigid 
and  universal,  but  entirely  ineffectual;  not  the  least  in- 
formation being  obtained  which  tended  to  a  discovery. 
•  On  the  third  day  the  unfortunate  vizier  was  summoned 
to  appear  at  the  foot  of  the  throne;  and  being  unable  to 
produce  the  offender,  the  enraged  caliph  ordered  him,  and 
forty  of  the  noble  family  of  the  Bermicides,  his  kindred, 
to  be  hanged  up  at  the  gate  of  the  palace.  A  public  criei 
proclaimed  through  the  whole  city  the  caliph's  harsh 
decree,  the  cause  of  it,  and  that  it  would  immediately  be 
put  in  execution.  Gibbets  were  erected  without  delay ; 
and  the  vizier,  with  his  relations,  were  led  out  to  suffer, 
amidst  the  tears  of  the  people,  to  whom  their  virtues  had 
endeared  them. 

At  the  instant  the  execution  was  about  to  take  place,  a 
young  man  of  good  address  pushed  forward,  and  calling 
out  to  the  officers  of  justice,  said,  "I  alone  am  the  crim- 
inal. It  is  I,"  said  he,  "who  committed  the  murder,  and 
I  only  ought  to  suffer." 

While  he  was  yet  speaking,  an  old  man  cried  out  to  the 


ARABIAN     NIGHTS'     ENTERTAINMENTS.  93 

vizier,  "  O,  illustrious  Giafar,  believe  not  that  rash  young 
man.  I  am  the  wretch  who  has  brought  you  and  your 
friends  into  so  much  danger.*'  The  vizier,  though  rejoiced 
at  his  own  escape,  pitied  these  unfortunate  men,  who  each 
persisted  in  declaring  his  own  guilt,  and  exculpating  the 
other.  The  judge  criminal  conducted  his  prisoners  and 
the  two  men  before  the  caliph,  who,  having  heard  his 
report,  sullenly  dismissed  the  Berrnicides,  ordering  Giafar 
to  resume  his  office,  and  commanded  both  the  men  to  be 
hanged.  The  vizier,  notwithstanding  his  past  sufferings, 
humanely  interposed,  and  reasoned  with  his  master,  that 
they  both  could  not  be  guilty.  The  young  man  hearing 
this,  cried  out,  "  I  swear  by  the  great  God  who  raised  the 
heavens  so  high,  that  I  am  the  man  who  killed  the  lady, 
cut  her  into  quarters,  and  threw  her  into  the  Tigris  :  I 
renounce  my  part  of  happiness  among  the  just,  at  the  day 
of  judgment,  if  what  I  say  be  not  truth."  This  solemn 
oath,  and  the  silence  of  the  old  man,  convinced  the  caliph. 
"  Wretch,"  said  he,  "  what  could  induce  you  to  commit  so 
horrid  a  crime?  What  madness  impels  you  to  rush  upon 
your  fate,  by  thus  audaciously  avowing  it?"  "Alas!" 
replied  the  young  man,  "  I  do  not  wish  to  live  ;  yet  I  trust 
if  your  majesty  will  deign  to  hear  me,  I  shall  be  found 
more  unfortunate  than  criminal."  The  curiosity  of  the 
caliph  was  excited :  he  ordered  the  young  man  to  relate 
his  story,  which  he  did,  in  these  words  : 

"Commander  of  the  Faithful,  the  murdered  lady  was 
my  wife,  and  daughter  of  this  old  man,  who  is  my  uncle. 
We  passed  several  happy  years  together.  I  have  three 
children  by  her,  and  our  affection  for  each  other  was 
unbounded. 

"  A  few  weeks  ago  my  wife  became  sick  :  in  this  situa- 
tion she  expressed  a  great  desire  for  some  apples.  I  im- 
mediately endeavored  to  procure  some;  but  though  I  of- 
fered a  sequin  apiece,  I  could  not  find  one  in  Bagdad.  On 
the  contrary,  1  learned  that  there  were  none  to  be  had  at 
this  season  in  any  place,  but  in  your  majesty's  garden  at 
Balsora. 

"  Being  very  desiro  is  to  gratify  my  wife,  I  disregarded 


34  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  distance,  and  set  out  thither.  I  purchased  three 
apples  at  a  great  price,  which  was  all  the  gardener  could 
spare  me;  and  returned  in  fifteen  days  to  Bagdad,  much 
pleased  with  my  success.  But  when  L  came  home,  my 
wife's  desire  for  them  had  passed  away.  She  accepted 
them,  notwithstanding,  very  kindly,  and  though  she  con- 
tinued sick,  she  did  not  cease  to  be  affectionate. 

"  Some  days  after,  as  I  was  sitting  in  my  shop,  an  ugly, 
tall,  black  slave  came  into  it,  with  an  apple  in  his  hand. 
My  heart  sunk  when  I  saw  it,  as  I  was  convinced  there 
was  not  one  in  the  city  but  those  1  had  brought  from  Bal- 
sora.  I  asked  him  hastily  how  he  came  by  it.  'Tis  a 
present,'  replied  he,  smiling,  'from  my  mistress:  I  have 
just  been  to  visit  her,  and  on  taking  leave,  she  gave  me 
this  apple,  which  is  one  of  the  three  which  her  kind  hus- 
band has  been  as  far  as  Balsora  to  obtain  for  her.' 

"  I  cannot  express  what  I  felt  at  this  discourse.  I  hast- 
ened home  immediately,  and  going  to  my  wife's  chamber, 
I  saw  there  were  only  two  apples  left.  I  demanded  where 
the  other  was.  My  wife  answered  me  coldly,  '  I  know  not 
what  has  become  of  it.'  Transported  with  rage  and  jeal- 
ousy, 1  drew  my  dagger,  and  instantly  stabbed  her. 

"When  I  found  she  was  dead,  my  fury  gave  place  to 
fear.  Though  I  did  not  regret  having  slain  her,  I  dreaded 
the  consequences  of  the  act.  I  divided  the  body  therefore 
into  quarters,  and  packed  them  up  in  a  trunk,  which,  as  soon 
as  it  was  dark,  I  threw  into  the  river.  When  I  returned 
home,  I  found  the  eldest  of  my  children  sitting  at  my 
gate,  crying;  on  nry  asking  the  reason,  'Father,'  said  he, 
'I  took  away  this  morning,  unknown  to  my  mother,  one 
of  the  apples  you  brought  her:  as  I  was  playing  with  it,  a 
tall,  black  slave,  who  was  going  by,  snatched  it  from  me; 
and  though  I  told  him  how  far  you  had  been  to  fetch  it  to 
my  mother,  he  would  not  restore  it.  Do  not,  my  dear 
father,  tell  my  mother  of  it,  lest  she  should  grieve  and 
become  worse.' 

"My  son's  discourse  overwhelmed  me  with  the  most 
insupportable  anguish.  I  found  I  had  been  betrayed  by 
the  fatal  lie  of  a  vile  slave  into  an  enoimcus  crime.     At 


ARAMAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS.  95 

this  juncture,  my  uncle  arrived  to  pay  a  visit  to  me  and  bis 
daughter.  I  concealed  nothing  from  him  ;  and  the  good  old 
man,  instead  of  loading  me  with  reproaches,  admitted  my 
apology,  and  joined  with  me  in  lamenting  the  loss  we  had 
both  sustained,  through  my  rashness  and  the  villany  of 
the  rascally  black.  We  were  yet  mingling  our  tears,  when 
we  heard  that  the  body  was  found,  and  that  your  majesty's 
displeasure  was  raised  against  your  faithful  vizier,  because 
the  murderer  was  undiscovered.  I  resolved,  therefore,  to 
submit  myself  to  your  royal  justice,  the  decree  of  which, 
however  severe,  I  shall  not  presume  to  murmur  at." 

The  story  of  the  unfortunate  young  man  excited  the 
pity  of  the  caliph;  and  his  indignation  was  turned  against 
the  slave,  who  had  been  the  cause  of  so  great  a  calamity. 
Nor  was  he  yet  reconciled  to  the  conduct  of  the  vizier. 
Dismissing,  therefore,  the  young  man,  he  turned  to  Giafar, 
and  said,  "  Since  by  your  negligence  such  an  enormity 
passed  unnoticed,  till  accident  revealed  it,  I  command  you 
to  find  out  this  wicked  slave  within  three  days,  or  I  will 
most  severely  punish  you."  G-iafar  withdrew  from  the 
caliph's  presence,  overcome  with  sorrow.  "  How  is  it 
possible,"  complained  he,  "to  find  out  this  slave  in  a  city 
where  there  are  such  a  number  of  blacks?  I  will  not 
attempt  such  so  fruitless  an  inquiry,  but  will  resign  my- 
self to  my  fate." 

Accordingly,  instead  of  seeking  for  the  slave,  he  passed 
the  first  two  days  in  mourning  with  his  family;  on  the 
third,  he  prepared  to  present  himself  before  the  caliph. 
Having  taken  leave  of  his  friends,  the  nurses  brought  to 
him  his  favorite  daughter,  a  child  of  about  five  years  of 
age.  The  afflicted  vizier  took  her  in  his  arms  to  salute 
her,  when  perceiving  something  bulky  in  her  bosom,  asked 
her  what  it  was  ?  "  My  dear  father,"  said  she,  "  it  is  an 
apple,  which  I  have  just  bought  of  our  slave  Kalian,  for 
two  sequins." 

At  the  words  apple,  slave,  the  vizier  shouted  out  with 
surprise  and  joy.  He  caused  the  slave  to  be  immediately 
seized, and  carried  before  the  caliph;  tow  horn  Lerelated  the 
manner  in  which  he  made  the  discovery.     The  caliph  was 


96  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

much  pleased  at  it,  and  embracing  Giafar,  declared  hi* 
anger  toward  him  was  at  an  end.  "  But  this  fellow,"  said 
he,  turning  to  the  slave,  "shall  suffer  exemplary  punish- 
ment." The  black,  prostrating  himself,  besought  mercy; 
and  the  vizier,  finding  the  caliph  in  some  measure  appeased, 
ventured  to  intercede  for  him.  "I  remember,"  said  he, 
"  a  story  fully  as  extraordinary  as  this."  "  Eelate  it  then," 
said  the  caliph,  "and  if  it  is  sc,  I  will  give  to  your  slave 
the  pardon  you  solicit  for  him." 

THE    STORY    OF     NOUREDDIN    ALI   AND    BEDREDDIN    HASSAN. 

There  was  a  sultan  of  Egypt,  who  having  been  bred  up 
with  the  sons  of  his  father's  vizier,  determined,  on  the 
death  of  the  old  minister,  to  confer  bis  office  on  them 
jointly.  The  eldest  was  called  Schemseddin  Ali,  the 
younger,  Noureddin  Ali.  They  were  both  men  of  abili- 
ties; but  the  younger  had  most  virtue  and  good  nature; 
he  was  also  remarkably  handsome. 

They  conducted  the  public  business  very  ably  ;  and  as 
the  sultan  was  very  fond  of  the  chase,  they  used  to  attend 
him  in  turn  on  his  hunting  parties,  which  often  lasted 
several  weeks. 

One  evening,  as  they  were  talking  after  supper,  Schem- 
seddin proposed  that  they  should  marry  two  sisters,  of 
their  acquaintance.  Noureddin  agreed  ;  and  the  conversa- 
tion was  continued,  in  pleasantry,  as  to  what  might  arise 
from  their  nuptials.  "If  I  should  have  a  daughter  and 
you  a  son,"  said  Schemseddin,  "we  will  give  them  in 
marriage  to  each  other."  "  Agreed,"  replied  Noureddin; 
"it  will  cement  our  union,  and  continue  it  to  our  posterity." 

The  discourse  was  carried  on  with  much  good  humor, 
till  the  eldest  brother  asked  the  younger,  what  jointure  ho 
proposed  to  offer  ?  Noureddin  replied,  laughing,  "  Are  wo 
not  brothers,  and  equals  in  rank?  you  ought  to  think  of  a 
dowry  for  your  daughter;  you  know  the  male  is  nobler 
than  the  female."  "How!"  replied  Schemseddin, haughtily; 
"a  mischief  on  your  son  !  do  you  prefer  him  to  my  daugh. 
ter?  I  wonder  you  dare  think  him  worthy  of  her.  Do 
you  forget  I  am  your  elder  brother  ?     Since  you  behave 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS.  97 

80  ill,  I  will  not  give  my  daughter  to  your  son  on  any 
terms  whatsoever."  Altercation,  however  trifling  the 
subject,  often  excites  ill-will.  This  idle  quarrel  between 
the  viziers  about  the  marriage  of  their  children,  before 
they  were  born,  was  carried  so  high,  that  Schemseddin 
left  his  brother  in  a  rage,  vowing  revenge  for  the  insult 
he  supposed  he  had  received. 

Noureddin  acted  still  more  imprudently.  The  day  fol- 
lowing, the  elder  vizier  was  to  attend" the  sultan,  on  a  hunt, 
for  a  month.  As  soon  as  the  court  departed,  Noureddin, 
stung  with  the  unkind  behavior  of  his  brother,  deter- 
mined to  abandon  him,  his  office,  and  his  country.  He 
took  his  best  mule,  and  bidding  adieu  to  Cairo,  he  arrived 
some  weeks  after  at  Balsora.  Accident  introduced  him  to 
the  grand  vizier  of  that  country.  His  virtues,  abilities, 
and  good  address  merited  and  obtained  for  him  general 
esteem.  He  soon  became  son-in-law,  and  afterward  the 
successor  of  the  vizier.  He  had  an  only  son  whom  he 
named  Bedreddin  Hassan,  who  was  remarkable  for  his 
singular  affection  for  his  father. 

It  so  fell  out,  that  about  the  time  Noureddin  married 
the  daughter  of  the  grand  vizier  of  Balsora,  his  brother 
Schemseddin  also  married  :  and  that  his  wife  was  delivered 
of  a  daughter  on  the  same  day  that  Bedreddin  was  born. 

Bedreddin  had  just  reached  manhood,  when  Noureddin 
was  seized  with  a  fatal  disease.  On  his  death-bid,  he  re- 
lated to  his  son  the  cause  of  his  leaving  Egypt,  and  having 
given  him  his  pocket-book  wherein  all  things  respecting 
his  whole  life  were  circumstantially  recorded,  he  died*  as 
became  a  good  Mussulman. 

Bedreddin  was  so  afflicted  at  the  death  of  his  father,  that 
he  shut  himself  up  in  his  house,  and  for  a  long  time  in- 
dulged himself  in  sorrow.  But  by  carrying  his  filial  piety  to 
such  excess,  he  drew  on  himself  a  series  of  calamities. 
As  he  wholly  confined  himself  at  home,  and  was  not  seen 
for  many  months  at  the  court  of  the  sultan,  the  haughty 
and  passionate  prince  was  offended,  and  ordered  his  effects 
to  be  seized,  and  himself  brought  a  prisoner  to  the  palace. 

A.  faithful  slave,  who  had  heard  the  orders  repeated  tc 
9  o 


98  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  Dfficers  of  justice,  hastened  before  them  to  his  master, 
and  gave  him  notice  of  his  danger.  Thus  alarmed,  he  fled 
from  his  house  immediately,  without  stopping  to  take  the 
least  supply  of  money  or  other  necessaries.  He  determined 
to  pass  the  night  in  his  father's  tomb,  which  was  a  large 
dome,  built  without  the  city.  As  ho  drew  near  it,  he  met 
a  rich  Jew,  who  was  a  merchant  of  reputation.  Isaac 
congratulated  him  on  his  coming  abroad,  and  agreed  with 
him  for  the  cargo  of  the  ship  which  was  daily  expected, 
depositing  a  thousand  sequins  to  bind  the  bargain.  Bed- 
reddin  rejoiced  at  receiving  a  supply  as  unexpected  as  it 
was  necessary.  Night  drawing  on,  he  entered  his  father's 
tomb;  where,  overcome  with  fatigue  and  sorrow,  he  fell 
asleep. 

It  happened  that  a  genie  had  retired  to  this  tomb  in  the 
day,  and  was  preparing,  according  to  his  custom,  to  range 
about  the  world  during  night.  Being  much  pleased  with 
the  gracefulness  and  beauty  of  Bedreddin,  he  continued 
some  time  in  the  tomb  admiring  him  ;  he  had  scarce  began 
his  flight  through  the  air  when  he  met  a  fairy  of  his  ac- 
quaintance. He  invited  her  with  him  to  the  tomb,  where 
they  agreed  in  admiring  the  beauty  of  the  sleeping  Bed- 
reddin. 

After  viewing  him  for  some  time,  "  Genie,"  said  the 
fairy,  "  this  young  man  is  indeed  remarkably  handsome ; 
but  I  anf  just  come  from  Cairo,  where  there  is  a  young 
lady  still  more  beautiful.  She  is  at  this  time  in  very  great 
distress ;  and  it  has  occurred  to  me,  that  you  and  I  may 
very  properly  relieve  her.  I  will,  therefore,  relate  to  you 
the  particulars  of  her  situation. 

"This  paragon  of  beauty  is  the  daughter  of  Schemsed- 
din,  vizier  to  the  sultan  of  Egypt.  Her  accomplishments 
are  so  rare  that  the  sultan,  who  lately  saw  her  by  accident 
at  her  father's  bouse,  declared,  without  hesitation,  his 
determination  to  marry  her;  but  the  vizier,  instead  of  re- 
ceiving the  honor  of  his  master's  alliance  with  joy,  begged 
leave  to  decline  it.  The  haughty  sultat ,  in  revenge,  has 
sought  out  the  meanest  and  most  deformed  of  his  slaves, 
and  compelled  the  vizier  to  give  his  lovely  daughter  tr 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  .      99 

him  in  marriage.  The  nuptial  ceremonies  are  now  cele- 
brating;  and  the  most  perfect  beauty  in  the  world  will, 
this  night,  be  devoted  to  a  base  groom,  hump-backed, 
crooked,  and  ugly  beyond  imagination,  unless  we  interpose 
and  put  this  young  man  in  his  place." 

':  Agreed,"  replied  the  genie ;  "  I  will  convey  this  youth 
to  Cairo,  and  conduct  him  through  the  business  of  the 
evening;  my  power  will  then  cease,  and  I  must  leave  you 
to  finish  the  adventure." 

Accordingly,  the  genie  lifted  up  Bedreddin  gently,  and 
with  inconceivable  swiftness  carried  him  through  the  air, 
and  set  him  down  at  the  door  of  the  bagnio,  whence 
Hunchback  was  to  come  with  a  train  of  slaves.  Bedred- 
din awakened  at  that  moment;  and  seeing  such  a  variety 
of  strange  objects  around  him,  was  about  to  cry  out,  when 
the  genie  touched  him  on  the  shoulder  and  forbade  him  to 
speak.  Astonishment  now  tied  up  his  tongue.  The  genie, 
unseen,  related  to  him  in  a  few  words  for  what  purpose 
he  was  brought  thither;  and  putting  a  torch  in  his  hand, 
"Join,"  said  he,  "the  bridal  train,  place  yourself  at  the 
right  hand  of  the  bridegroom,  and  when  you  enter  the 
hall,  distribute  the  sequins  you  have  in  your  bosom  very 
liberally  among  the  musicians  and  dancers,  but  still  more 
bountiful  to  the  female  slaves  that  are  about  the  bride; 
nor  fear  the  money  will  fail,  for  you  will  find  your  purse 
continue  full.  Preserve  a  perfect  presence  of  mind  :  carry 
everything  with  an  air  of  authority ;  and  leave  the  rest 
to  a  greater  power  who  will  assist  you." 

Bedreddin  obeyed  very  exactly  the  directions  of  his 
invisible  patron.  He  joined  the  throng,  entered  the  hall, 
and  took  the  place  of  the  bridegroom.  His  fine  figure 
attracted  every  eye,  and  his  generosity  gained  him  the 
good  opinion  of  every  attendant.  The  bride  was  no  less 
struck  with  his  appearance;  and  when,  according  to  the 
custom  of  the  Arabians,  she  came  to  present  herself  to  her 
husband  seven  times,  in  as  many  different  splendid  habits, 
she  passed  by  unnoticed  the  hateful  Hunchback,  and  ap- 
proached the  agreeable  stranger  as  her  bridegroom. 

The  usual   ceremonies  being  over,  the  bride  withdrew 


100  ARABIAN   NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  her  chamber,  attended  by  her  women.  The  company 
and  attendants  also  retired;  Bedreddin  only  remained  in 
the  room  with  Hunchback.  Ignorant  and  stupid  as  this 
wretched  fellow  was,  he  could  not  but  observe  that  Bed- 
reddin had  received  the  distinctions  due  to  the  husband 
of  the  Beautiful  Lady;  and  finding  him  stay  when  every 
one  else  had  withdrawn,  he  cried  out,  in  an  angry  and 
peremptory  tone,  for  him  to  be  gone. 

Bedreddin  had  no  pretence  to  loiter  any  longer;  he 
therefore  withdrew.  But  before  he  reached  the  porch, 
another  unseen  instructor  stopped  him.  This  was  the 
fairy,  who  bade  him  return  to  the  hall,  "where,"  continued 
she,  "you  will  no  more  find  Hunchback,  but  the  bride- 
maids  come  to  conduct  the  bridegroom  to  his  bride.  Pre- 
sent yourself  to  them  in  that  character;  and  when  they 
have  led  you  to  the  lady,  boldly  assure  her  that  the  sultan 
never  intended  to  sacrifice  so  much  beauty  and  merit  to 
that  base  slave,  but  meant  only  to  punish  the  vizier  by  the 
apprehension  of  such  disgrace.  Avow  yourself  the  bride- 
groom intended  for  her ;  she  will  gladly  listen  to  you,  and 
receive  you  accordingly." 

Bedreddin  pursued  these  instructions.  He  found  the 
Beautiful  Lady  overcome  with  fear  and  grief,  expecting 
with  abhorrence  the  frightful  groom.  Her  joy,  therefore, 
was  immoderate  when  she  saw  the  handsome  stranger 
approach  and  declare  himself  her  husband.  They  retired 
to  the  bedroom,  where  Bedreddin  pulled  off  his  turban 
and  other  clothes,  and  went  to  bed  in  his  shirt  and  drawers. 

In  the  interval,  the  genie  had  disposed  of  Hunchback. 
While  he  was  waiting  the  return  of  the  bridesmaids,  the 
genie  came  to  him  in  the  shape  of  a  great  cat,  fearfully 
mewing;  the  fellow  clapped  his  hands  at  her  to  drive  her 
away,  but  she  stared  at  him  with  fierce  and  sparkling 
eyes,  mewing  still  more,  and  increasing  in  size,  till  she 
became  as  big  as  a  jackass,  and  then  changing  into  a  buf- 
falo, exclaimed  :  "  Thou  hunchback  villain,  how  hast  thou 
dared  to  marry  my  mistress  ?"  Hunchback,  terrified  be- 
yond measure,  began  to  mutter  some  excuse,  when  the 
genie  took  him  by  the  legs,  and  setting  him  against  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  101 

wall  with  his  head  downward,  enjoined  him  not  to  speak 
ft  word,  or  move  from  that  posture  till  sunrise,  as  he  valued 
his  life. 

In  the  morning,  at  daybreak,  the  fairy  took  up  Bedred- 
din,  and  conveyed  him,  in  his  shirt  and  drawers,  to  the 
gates  of  Damascus,  where  she  laid  him  down,  still  asleep. 
Soon  after,  the  people  began  -to  gather  about  him  ;  all  ad- 
mired the  beauty  of  his  person,  while  some  with  scoffs, 
and  others  with  concern,  expressed  their  wonder  at  find- 
ing him  lying  almost  naked  on  the  ground. 

Their  noise  awakened  him,  and  on  his  starting  up,  he 
was  surprised  to  find  himself  surrounded  by  a  crowd,  at 
the  gate  of  a  city.  He  inquired  where  he  was,  and  was 
astonished  when  told  he  was  at  the  gates  of  Damascus. 
"Sure,  you  mock  me,"  exclaimed  he;  "  when  I  laid  down 
to  sleep,  I  was  at  Cairo."  The  by-standers  laughing  still 
more,  he  increased  their  vociferous  ridicule  by  declaring 
he  had  passed  the  preceding  day  at  Balsora. 

These  apparent  absurdities  made  the  people  suppose 
him  mad.  A  great  concourse  gathered  round  him,  and 
followed  him  into  the  city;  some  sneering  at  him,  others 
pitying.  At  length,  one  of  the  crowd  took  him  into  his 
protection.  This  man  had  formerly  been  a  captain  of 
banditti,  but  was  now  become  a  pastry-cook  in  Damascus; 
where,  though  he  behaved  well,  everybody  stood  in  awe 
of  him.  He  dispersed  the  crowd,  and  taking  Bedreddin 
home,  he  furnished  him  with  clothes  and  refreshments. 

To  this  kind  protector  the  unfortunate  young  man  re- 
peated his  story  in  private,  requesting  afterward  his  ad- 
vice. "  There  are,"  replied  the  pastry-cook,  "  some  things 
so  incredible  in  your  narrative,  that,  though  my  good 
opinion  of  you  inclines  me  to  believe  it,  few  others  will. 
At  any  rate,  you  cannot  safely  return  either  to  Balsora 
or  Cairo.  Be  content,  therefore,  for  a  time,  to  forget  }Tour 
birth,  and  take  refuge  in  my  house.  I  will  adopt  j^ou  for 
my  son;  no  one  then  will  dare  to  insult  you;  and  you 
may  continue  with  me  in  perfect  security,  till  some  fortu- 
nate event  shall  restore  you  to  your  dignity."  Bedreddin 
reluctantly  consented.  He  was  legally  adopted  by  the 
9* 


102  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS. 

pastry-cook,  who  taught  him  his  trade,  and  at  his  death 
left  him  his  heir.  The  son  of  the  vizier,  for  some  years, 
earned  a  scanty  maintenance  by  pursuing  this  humble 
employment. 

At  Cairo,  all  these  events  produced  very  serious  embar- 
rassments. When  the  daughter  of  Schemseddin  awoke 
in  the  morning,  and  missed  her  husband,  she  supposed  he 
had  risen  softly,  for  fear  of  disturbing  her.  She  arose, 
also,  and  presently  her  father  came  to  v^sit  her.  Schem- 
seddin expected  to  find  his  daughter  in  the  deepest  sorrow; 
but  as  she  received  him  in  a  manner  expressive  of  satis 
faction,  he  could  not  restrain  himself  from  reproaching 
her.  "  Is  it  thus  you  receive  me,  wretched  girl,"  exclaimed 
he,  "after  having  been  prostituted  to  the  embraces  of  a 
vile  groom?"  "  How,  my  father,"  replied  she,  "are  you 
yet  in  ignorance  respecting  my  marriage  ?  The  sultan 
was  too  just  to  sacrifice  me  to  the  horrid  Hunchback  ;  he 
sent  a  most  amiable  youth  for  my  husband,  who  cannot 
be  far  off,  as  his  clothes  are  here." 

The  vizier  withdrew  in  haste,  to  seek  his  unknown  son- 
in-law.  The  first  object  he  saw  was  Hunchback,  remain- 
ing in  the  posture  he  was  placed  in  by  the  genie.  He 
spoke  to  him,  but  received  no  answer;  he  therefore  put 
down  his  legs  and  raised  him  up.  As  soon  as  the  groom 
felt  his  feet,  he  ran  to  the  palace,  without  thanking  his 
deliverer,  determined  to  complain  to  the  sultan  of  the 
mortifications  he  had  received. 

The  vizier  inquired  in  vain  for  the  bridegroom  ;  he  re- 
turned, therefore,  to  his  daughter's  bedchamber,  and  ex- 
amining the  clothes  and  turban  of  his  son-in-law  with 
much  attention,  he  found  the  pocket-book  which  Noured- 
din  Ali  had  given  to  his  son  on  his  death-bed.  Schemsed- 
din instantly  knew  his  brother's  handwriting;  and  seeing 
the  superscription  of  the  book,  "  For  my  son,  Bedreddin 
Hassan,"  he  gave  a  shout,  and  swooned  away. 

On  his  recovery,  he  said,  "  Daughter,  be  not  alarmed  at 
this  accident ;  your  bridegroom  is  your  cousin,  the  son  of 
my  brother,  Noureddin  Ali,  the  cause  of  whose  leaving 
Cairo  you  have  often    heard   me   deplore ;   a  wonderful 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  103 

providence  has  now  united  you  to  his  son."  In  the  book, 
all  the  circumstances  of  their  disagreement  were  related 
by  Noureddin  ;  the  purse  also,  with, the  Jew's  memoran- 
dum in  it,  was  found,  relating  the  bargain  he  had  made 
with  Bedreddin  at  the  time  he  paid  him  that  money ;  so 
that  there  remained  no  possibility  of  doubt  that  the  hus- 
band of  the  Beautiful  Lady  was  really  her  father's  nephew. 

Schemseddin  took  the  pocket-book  and  purse,  and  re- 
quested an  audience  of  his  master.  The  affronted  prince 
still  retained  his  anger  against  his  vizier;  and  Hunchback 
being  about  to  relate  what  had  befallen  him,  the  sultan 
ordered  his  minister  admission,  with  an  intent  to  mortify 
him.  When  the  groom  had  finished  his  account,  the  prince 
demanded,  with  an  air  of  indignation,  an  explanation  of 
this  new  insult.  Schemseddin  besought  his  master's  pa- 
tient hearing :  he  then  related  his  conversation  and  quar- 
rel with  Noureddin,  and  producing  the  purse  and  the 
pocket-book,  showed  that  the  contract  made  by  him  and 
his  brother  had  been  completed. 

The  first  transports  of  the  sultan's  fury  had  subsided ; 
he  was  now  more  calm.  He  examined  the  vouchers,  and 
heard  the  account  of  Hunchback  as  well  as  the  vizier; 
he  then  began  to  think  there  must  be  some  supernatural 
interposition  in  the  affair,  which  it  did  not  become  him  to 
oppose.  He  dismissed  the  groom,  and  became  reconciled 
to  his  minister;  and  having  in  vain  caused  a  most  diligent 
search  to  be  made  for  Bedreddin,  he  caused  a  relation  of 
the  adventure  to  be  registered  among  the  archives  of  his 
kingdom. 

Nine  months  after  these  events,  the  Beautiful  Lady  was 
delivered  of  a  son,  to  whom  the  vizier  gave  the  name  of 
Agib,  or  wonderful. 

When  little  Agib  became  of  a  proper  age  to  receive 
instruction,  the  vizier  sent  him  to  a  school  where  the  sons 
of  the  principal  people  were  educated.  Agib  inherited 
the  beauty  of  his  parents,  and  thence,  as  well  as  out  of 
respect  to  his  grandfather,  was  treated  with  great  indul- 
gence. His  faults  were  suffered  to  pass  unnoticed ;  even 
his  whims  were  gratified.     This  absurd  complaisance  of 


104  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

course  spoiled  the  boy;  he  became  insolent  and  overbear- 
ing; he  hardly  behaved  with  decency  to  his  master;  but 
his  schoolmates,  every  one  in  turn,  were  treated  with  con- 
tempt or  outrage,  as  occasion  arose  to  offend  him,  till  at 
length  he  became  heartily  hated  by  them  all. 

The  master  saw  this  behavior  with  concern,  and  deter- 
mined to  humble  him.  By  his  instruction,  when  all  the 
scholars  were  together  at  play,  one  of  them  cried  out, 
''•Before  we  choose  our  sport,  let  us  agree  that  every  one 
shall  tell  the  names  of  his  father  and  mother,  and  whoever 
cannot  do  that,  shall  be  considered  as  a  bastard,  and  not 
suffered  to  play  with  us."  All  agreed  to  this,  and  Agib 
among  the  rest.  The  others  answered  readily  to  the  pro- 
poser who  examined  them ;  and  when  he  came  to  Agib, 
he  replied,  "  My  mother  is  called  the  Lady  of  Beauty,  and 
my  father  is  Schemseddin,  vizier  to  the  sultan  ' 

"Not  so,"  replied  the  examiner;  "Schemseddin  is  not 
your  father,  but  your  grandfather."  "  How,"  cried  Agib, 
in  a  rage,  "dare  you  say  that  Schemseddin  is  not  my 
father?"  "No,  no,"  said  they  all,  laughing,  "he  is  not 
your  father;  and  until  you  can  tell  us  who  he  is,  we  will 
not  let  you  play  with  us."  They  then  left  him,  with  scoff- 
ing and  derision.  Agib  hastened  to  the  master  with  com- 
plaints, but  was  still  more  mortified  when  he  confirmed 
the  sarcasm  of  his  schoolfellows,  and  advised  him,  on  that 
account,  to  behaye  to  them  with  less  haughtiness  for  the 
future. 

The  saucy  spirit  of  the  proud  boy  could  not  brook  this. 
He  fled  home  to  his  mother,  and  for  a  time  was  unable  to 
speak  to  her  from  passion.  When  he  had  explained  to 
her  the  cause  of  his  agitation,  she  mingled  her  tears  with 
his,  overcome  with  affliction  for  the  loss  of  his  father 
At  this  juncture,  the  vizier  chanced  to  pay  his  daughter 
a  visit,  and  being  told  the  cause  of  their  grief,  he  shared 
it  with  them.  Nor  was  this  sorrow,  thus  accidentally 
revived,  without  material  effect.  The  vizier  determined 
to  go  himself  to  Balsora,  in  search  of  his  nephew;  and 
having  obtained  the  sultan's  permission,  he  set  out  with 
a  splendid  retinue,  accompanied  by  the  Beautiful  Lady 
and  his  grandson. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  105 

After  a  journey  of  twenty  days,  they  drew  near  Damas- 
cus. The  face  of  the  country  being  very  beautiful,  Schem- 
seddin  determined  to  rest  there  two  or  three  days.  To 
avoid  the  fatigue  and  ceremony  of  visiting  the  governor, 
he  caused  his  tents  to  be  pitched  at  a  short  distance  froir. 
the  city.  "While  the  vizier  reposed,  his  attendants  went, 
a  few  at  a  time,  to  view  Damascus.  Their  reports  excited 
the  curiosity  of  Agib,  which  Schemseddin  permitted  him 
to  indulge,  under  the  care  of  Schaban,  chief  of  the  black 
eunuchs. 

The  handsome  features  and  graceful  demeanor  of  the 
boy  drew  every  one's  attention;  and  before  he  had  pro- 
ceeded far  in  the  city,  so  many  people  followed  to  admire 
him,  that  the  crowd  became  troublesome.  At  this  instant 
they  came  to  the  shop  where  Bedreddin  carried  on  the 
humble  occupation  of  a  pastry-cook ;  his  attention  being 
excited  by  the  crowd,  he  went  to  the  door,  when  the  sight 
of  Agib  affected  him  unaccountably.  The  force  of  nature 
impelled  this  tender  father,  unknown  to  himself;  he  en* 
treated  the  child,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  and  uncommon 
earnestness,  to  enter  his  shop,  and  accept  of  some  of  his 
pastry.  Little  Agib  was  moved  with  his  behavior,  and 
signified  his  desire  to  comply.  The  eunuch  at  first  opposed 
this,  as  an  unbecoming  condescension  ;  but  the  entreaties 
of  Bedreddin,  and  the  annoyance  of  the  crowd,  induced 
him  at  last  to  consent. 

Bedreddin  received  them  with  great  joy;  and  taking  a 
cream-tart  out  of  the  oven,  he  strewed  it  with  pomegran- 
ate kernels  and  sugar,  and  set  it  before  them.  Agib  and 
the  eunuch  ate  of  the  tart,  and  praised  it  exceedingly. 
While  Bedreddin  gazed  on  the  child  with  inexpressible 
tenderness,  a  thought  arose,  that  possibly  he  might  be  the 
father  of  such  a  child,  by  the  charming  wife  from  whom 
he  was  so  cruelly  separated.  This  idea  increased  his  con- 
cern ;  he  could  not  restrain  his  tears,  and  began  to  ask  the 
child  a  variety  of  questions  with  so  much  emotion,  that 
the  eunuch  became  alarmed  at  his  behavior.  As  soon  as 
Agib  had  done  eating,  and  the  crowd  were  dispersed,  Scha- 
ban led  him  awav,  and  returned  immediately  to  the  tents. 


106  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Bedreddin,  listening  to  the  impulse  within  him,  followed 
them.  When  they  drew  near  the  camp,  Schaban,  turning 
round,  saw  him,  and  became  exceedingly  frightened,  lest 
the  vizier  should  know  he  had  permitted  Agib  to  enter  a 
common  shop.  He  mentioned  these  apprehensions  to  the 
child,  who,  giving  way  to  his  usual  insolence,  caught  up  a 
stone,  which  he  threw  at  Bedreddin,  and  hurt  him  severely. 
The  unfortunate  pastry-cook,  wounded  by  a  child  he  felt 
60  much  fondness  for,  and  threatened  by  the  eunuch,  gave 
up  a  pursuit  which  he  had  no  decisive  purpose  in  beginning, 
and  returned  to  his  habitation,  afflicted  and  disconsolate. 

The  day  following,  Schemse*ddin  proceeded  on  his  jour- 
ney to  Balsora.  He  soon  found  out  the  widow  of  Noured- 
din  Ali,  but  his  inquiries  after  Bedreddin  Ali  were  unsuc- 
cessful ;  the  vizier,  therefore,  after  a  short  stay,  gave  up 
all  hope,  and  prepared  to  return  to  Cairo.  Asa  mutual 
•esteem  had  taken  place  between  the  Lady  of  Beauty  and 
the  widow  of  Noureddin  Ali,  the  vizier  prevailed  with 
her  to  accompany  them.  When  they  reached  Damascus, 
the  whole  retinue  pitched  their  tents  as  before,  to  enjoy 
a  few  days'  rest,  before  they  continued  their  journey. 

While  they  remained  there,  Agib  recollected  the  pastry- 
cook whom  ,he  had  used  so  roughly,  and  requested  Scha- 
ban to  go  into  the  city  with  him,  to  see  him  again.  They 
found  him  still  employed  in  making  tarts;  and  Bedreddin, 
notwithstanding  the  ill  treatment  he  had  received,  felt  tho 
same  emotions  of  tenderness  for  Agib.  He  ran  to  him, 
and  would  have  embraced  him,  but  the  boy  pushed  him 
aside ;  yet  Bedreddin  pressed  him  to  enter  his  shop.  Agib 
replied,  "There  is  an  excess  in  the  kindness  you  express; 
unless  you  will  promise  not  to  follow  me  when  we  go  from 
hence,  I  will  not  enter  your  house;  but  if  you  make  and 
observe  this  promise,  I  will  visit  you  again  to-morrow." 
Bedreddin  consented,  and  Agib  with  Schaban  went  in, 
and  were  plentifully  supplied  with  cream-tarts,  which  they 
Ate  with  much  satisfaction. 

Evening  drawing  on,  Agib  and  his  governor  took  leave 
of  1  heir  friendly  pastry-cook,  and  returned  to  the  tents. 
The  widow  of  Nouroldin,  who  had  become  passionately 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  107 

fond  of  her  grandson,  received  him  with  great  affection  ; 
and  as  it  was  supper-time,  she  took  him  into  her  tent,  and 
set  before  him  a  cream-tart,  which  she  had  just  been 
making.  Agib  tasted  it,  but  as  he  had  eaten  so  lately,  he 
left  it  almost  whole  ;  on  which  his  grandmother  said  to. 
him,  "Does  my  child  despise  the  work  of  my  hands? 
Know,"  continued  she,  "  there  is  no  one  in  the  world  can 
make  such  a  cream-tai't,  besides  myself  and  your  father 
Bedreddin  Hassan,  whom  I  myself  taught  to  make  them." 
"Excuse  me,  madam,"  replied  Agib,  "there  is  a  pastry- 
cook in  Damascus  who  makes  much  better ;  we  have  just 
come  from  eating  some  of  his,  which  are  inimitable." 

The  lady,  hearing  this,  became  incensed  against  Schaban 
for  presuming  to  suffer  her  grandchild  to  eat  in  a  pastry- 
cook's shop  like  a  beggar.  She  reported  the  matter  im- 
mediately to  Schemseddin,  who,  still  more  enraged,  sent 
for  the  eunuch,  and  demanded  how  he  dared  be  guilty  of 
so  heinous  an  offence  ?  Schaban  stiffly  denied  the  charge  ; 
but  the  child  averring  it  to  be  true,  the  vizier  ordered  the 
eunuch  to  eat  the  tart  which  Agib  had  refused;  this  he 
pretended  to  do  readily,  but  was  obliged  to  leave  off  when 
he  had  swallowed  a  mouthful  or  two.  The  vizier,  con- 
vinced of  his  guilt,  ordered  him  the  bastinado,  when  he 
confessed  the  truth,  and  added,  that  the  tart  was  much 
better  than  that  made  by  the  lady. 

The  widow  of  Noureddin  Ali  felt  herself  piqued.  She 
sent  immediately  for  one  of  those  tarts,  which,  when  she 
had  tasted,  she  cried  out,  "  It  must  be  my  son,  my  dear 
Bedreddin,  who  made  this  tart.  I  make  them  in  a  pecu- 
liar manner,  which  I  never  taught  to  anyone  but  him; 
and  as  this  is  so  made,  I  have  no  doubt  but  he  was  the 
maker  of  it." 

Schemseddin  received  this  account  with  the  highest 
satisfaction  ;  yet  fearful  of  a  disappointment,  he  requested 
the  ladies  to  restrain  their  impatience,  and  leave  the  man- 
agement of  the  affair  to  him.  "  I  will  contrive  to  bring 
the  pastry -cook  hither,"  continued  he,  "and  you  will,  no 
doubt,  recognize  him,  if  it  is  really  Bedreddin;  but  even 
if  it  is  so,  I  will  by  no  means  introduce  him  to  you,  til! 


10£  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

we  arrive  at  Cairo."  The  ladies  at  first  demurred,  but  the 
vizier  assuring  them  he  had  good  reason  for  this  resolu- 
tion, they  acquiesced. 

Early  in  the  morning,  Schemseddin  applied  to  the  gov- 
ernor of  the  city  for  leave  to  carry  his  scheme  into  exe- 
cution, acquainting  him  at  the  same  time  with  the  motives 
of  his  conduct.  The  governor  readily  agreed ;  when 
Schemseddin  detached  fifty  of  his  attendants,  properly 
instructed,  to  the  shop  of  his  son-in-law.  As  soon  as  these 
men  arrived  there,  they  began  to  break  in  pieces  the 
plates,  tables,  and  pans,  with  the  utmost  violence.  The 
astonished  Bedreddin  cried  out  to  know  the  reason  of  such 
ill  treatment.  "  Was  it  not  you,"  said  one  of  them,  "who 
sold  us  a  cream-tart  last  night  ?"  "Yes,"  replied  the  pas- 
try-cook, "  and  I  am  sure  no  one  could  have  sold  you  a 
better."  At  these  words,  the  men  renewed  their  outrages, 
and  having  destroyed  everything  they  could  find,  seized 
Bedreddin,  bound  him,  and  led  him  away  prisoner.  His 
neighbors  would  have  interposed  in  his  behalf,  but  at  the 
instant,  some  of  the  governor's  officers  arrived,  and  dis- 
persed them ;  so  that  the  unfortunate  pastry-cook,  not- 
withstanding his  cries  and  tears,  was  carried  off. 

When  they  returned  to  the  tents,  they  produced  their 
prisoner  to  the  vizier,  who,  affecting  much  anger,  said, 
"  Wretch,  was  it  not  you  who  made  the  cream-tart  which 
was  brought  me  last  night?"  "I  own  I  am  the  man," 
replied  Bedreddin.  "It  shall  cost  you  your  life,  then," 
said  the  vizier,  "for  daring  to  send  me  so  bad  a  tart." 
"Alas!"  replied  the  prisoner,  "how  long  has  it  been  a 
capital  offence  to  make  indifferent  pastry  ?  yet  I  am  sure 
the  tart  was  as  good  as  could  be  made." 

During  this  discourse,  the  ladies  who  were  concealed 
had  a  full  view  of  Bedreddin,  and  instantly  knew  him, 
notwithstanding  his  long  absence.  They  were  so  trans- 
ported with  joy,  that  it  was  with  difficulty  they  could  re- 
strain themselves  from  running  into  the  tent  and  embracing 
him  ;  but  their  promise  to  the  vizier  obliged  them  to  subdue 
those  tender  emotions  of  love  and  of  nature. 

yehemscddin  having  so  unexpectedly  succeeded  in  his 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  109 

interesting  inquiry,  set  out  without  delay  for  Cairo,  carry- 
ing Bedreddin  with  him  as  a  prisoner.  "When  he  arrived 
at  his  palace,  he  caused  his  nephew  to  be  brought  before 
him,  and  gave  orders  to  a  carpenter,  in  his  presence,  to 
prepai'e  a  stake  to  nail  him  to.  "Alas!  sir,"  exclaimed 
the  prisoner,  "what  have  I  done  to  deserve  so  severe  a 
punishment?"  "Villain,"  replied  the  vizier,  "did  you  not 
send  me  a  cream-tart  without  any  pepper  in  it?"  "Is 
that  the  reason,"  exclaimed  Bedreddin,  "  that  I  have  been 
treated  so  severely ;  have  my  goods  been  destroyed,  my- 
self made  a  prisoner,  and  led  away  many  days'  journey 
from  my  home;  am  I  now  to  be  put  to  a  cruel  death ;  and 
all  this  for  not  putting  pepper  into  a  cream-tart  ?  Are 
these  the  actions  of  Mussulmans,  of  persons  professing 
probity  and  justice  ?  Never  was  man  used  so  barbarously. 
Cursed  be  all  cream-tarts,  and  the  hour  in  which  I  learned 
to  make  them."  "  It  is  now  night,"  said  the  vizier  :  "take 
him  away,  I  will  not  put  him  to  death  till  to-morrow  ; 
when  I  will  make  him  an  example  to  all  base  pastry-cooks." 
Saying  this,  he  made  si"gns  to  his  attendants,  who  led  the 
prisoner  away  to  an  apartment  provided  for  him. 

At  the  time  of  his  daughter's  marriage,  after  the  bride- 
groom had  been  so  marvellously  taken  away,  Schemseddin 
had  not  only  secured  the  clothes  of  his  son-in-law,  but  had 
taken  an  account  of  the  situation  of  everything  in  the 
bridal  apartments.  To  this  he  now  referred,  and  caused 
them  to  be  fitted  up  exactly  as  they  were  on  that  night. 
The  bridal  throne  was  erected,  the  numerous  wax  lights 
lit  up,  and  Bedreddin's  clothes,  turban,  and  purse  of  se- 
quins, were  disposed  as  he  had  then  placed  them.  These 
matters  being  adjusted,  the  vizier  instructed  his  daughter 
in  what  manner  he  would  have  her  receive  her  husband, 
when  he  entered  her  chamber;  and  then  dismissed  her  to 
retire  thither. 

Bedreddin,  though  overwhelmed  with  grief,  being  ex- 
ceedingly fatigued,  had  undressed  himself  and  gone  to 
bed  ;  where  he  soon  fell  into  a  sound  sleep.  In  this  state 
the  vizier's  servants  conveyed  him  to  the  bridal  hall, 
where  the}'  set  him  down  and  withdrew,  except  one,  who 
10 


110  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

continued  shaking  him  till  he  was  awakened,  when  he  also 
retired  suddenly  Bedreddin  looked  about  him  with  as- 
tonishment. He  remembered  distinctly  the  hall.  H  3  ap- 
proached the  chamber,  and  saw  his  clothes  as  he  had  left 
them  on  the  wedding-night.  He  rubbed  his  eyes  and  ex- 
claimed, "  Good  heavens!  am  I  awake  or  not?" 

At  this  instant  the  Lady  of  Beauty,  who  had  observed 
his  embarrassment,  opened  the  curtains  and  said,  "  My 
dear  lord,  will  you  not  return  to  bed  again  ?  Why  do  you 
stay  at  the  door  ?  "  Bedreddin  on  this  entered  the  cham- 
ber, and  perceived  the  lady  who  spoke  to  him  was  the 
same  charming  woman  who  had  accepted  him  for  her 
husband.  His  heart  leaped  for  joy  at  the  discovery  ;  yet 
recollecting  all  that  had  befallen  him  during  the  last  ten 
years,  he  was  silent.  After  pausing  a  while,  he  examined 
his  clothes  and  purse,  which  he  knew  immediately;  his 
astonishment  redoubled.  At  last,  going  up  to  the  lady, 
"Madam,"  said  he,  "how  long  is  it  since  1  left  you;" 
"  Bid  you  not  rise  from  me  just  now  ?  "  replied  she,  "  surely 
your  thoughts  are  very  busy!"  4"My  thoughts,"  said 
Bedreddin,  "  are  not  very  easy.  I  remember,  indeed,  to 
have  been  married  to  you ;  but  since  then  I  have  lived  ten 
years  at  Damascus ;  I  found  myself  almost  naked  at  the 
gate  of  that  city,  and  being  insulted  by  the  mob,  I  fled  to 
a  pastry-cook,  who  adopted  me,  taught  me  his  trade,  and 
made  me  his  heir.  I  have  passed  through  a  variety  of 
adventures,  and  have  returned  here  in  good  time,  as  they 
were  just  going  to  nail  me  to  a  stake."  "Alas  !  for  what 
enormous  crime,"  replied  the  lady,  "were  you  to  be  treated 
so  severely?"  "For  no  crime,"  said  Bedreddin  ;  "I  had 
my  goods  destroyed,  myself  taken  prisoner,  and  was  at 
last  threatened  with  this  terrible  death,  for  selling  a  bad 
tart."  "You  have  indeed  awoke  in  good  time,"  said  the 
Beautiful  Lady  ;  "  they  surely  did  you  great  injustice ;  but 
return  to  your  bed,  and  try  if  you  cannot  dream  more 
pleasantly." 

Though  Bedreddin  rejoiced  exceedingly  at  finding  again 
his  lovely  bride,  yet  he  could  not  compose  himself  to  rest. 
The  recolle  ;tion  of  what  he  had  passed  thiough  for   so 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  Ill 

many  j'ears,  was  too  strong  to  be  overcome  by  tbe  idea 
of  its  having  been  a  dream.  On  the  other  hand,  as  often 
as  he  withdrew  the  curtains,  and  looked  about  the  room, 
ne  was  convinced  that  he  was  in  the  bridal  chamber.  Ho 
had  not  yet  recovered  his  perplexity,  when  the  morning 
appeared ;  and  shortly  after  Schemseddin  entered  the 
apartment,  and  bade  him  and  the  Lady  of  Beauty  good- 
morrow.  At  the  sight  of  a  man  whom  he  lately  beheld 
with  so  much  terror,  Bedreddin  was  much  moved,  and  it 
convinced  him  that  his  adventures  had  not  existed  in  im- 
agination only.  "Ah!"  exclaimed  he  to  Schemseddin,  "it 
was  you  who  condemned  me  so  unjustly  to  a  death  I  yet 
shudder  to  think  of,  for  making  a  cream-tart  without 
pepper." 

The  vizier  ran  to  him  and  embraced  him,  laughing ; 
he  then  related  to  him  those  circumstances  with  which 
Bedreddin  was  acquainted ;  he  introduced  him  to  the 
widow  of  Noureddin  Ali,  and  little  Agib,  who  no  longer 
fled  from  the  caresses  of  his  father.  The  joy  Bedreddin 
felt  in  finding  himself  surrounded  by  so  many  persons  de- 
servedly dear  to  him,  made  him  ample  amends  for  his 
past  suffering,  and  in  their  beloved  society  he  passed 
pleasantly  the  remainder  of  his  life. 

The  caliph  Haroun  Alraschid  was  so  well  pleased  with 
this  singular  story,  that  he  pai'doned  the  indiscreet  slave 
of  Giafar;  and  to  comfort  the  unfortunate  young  man  who 
had  so  rashly  murdered  the  lady,  he  gave  him  one  of  his 
slaves  to  wife,  and  received  him  into  his  service. 

THE  STORY  OF  ALADDIN,  OR  THE  WONDERFUL  LAMP. 

In  the  capital  of  China  there  lived  a  tailor  named  Mus- 
tapha,  who  with  difficulty  earned  a  maintenance  for  him- 
self, his  wife,  and  son,  whose  name  was  Aladdin. 

The  boy,  though  of  a  sprightly  turn  and  good  natural 
understanding,  was  careless  and  idle.  As  he  grew  up,  his 
laziness  increased.  He  was  continually  loitering  among 
blackguards  in  the  street;  nor  could  Mustapha  by  any 
means  prevail  with  him  to  apply  himself  to  some  employ 
inent  by  which  h"}  might  learn  to  get  his  bread. 


J  12  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

This  idle  disposition  of  the  hoy  destroyed  the  fathe? 
Mustapha,  finding  him  incorrigible,  was  so  much  afflicted, 
that  his  grief  brought  on  a  fit  of  sickness  which  cost  him 
his  life. 

Aladdin,  being  no  longer  restrained  by  his  father,  in- 
dulged his  indolence  to  the  utmost.  He  was  not  ashamed, 
though  fifteen  years  old,  to  be  supported  by  his  mother's 
labor,  yet  ceased  to  pay  her  the  respect  and  duty  of  a  son. 

One  day  as  he  was  amusing  himself  with  his  compan- 
ions, a  stranger,  who  was  an  African  magician,  passing 
by,  stopped  to  observe  him.  After  looking  at  the  youth 
for  some  time  very  earnestly,  he  inquired  among  his  play- 
mates who  he  was,  and  presently  learned  his  little  history. 
The  wily  African  then  went  up  to  him  and  asked  him  if 
his  father  was  not  called  Mustapha  the  tailor?  "  He  was 
so,"  replied  the  bo}r,  "  but  he  has  been  dead  for  some  time." 
The  magician  pretended  to  burst  into  tears  at  this  account. 
He  embraced  Aladdin,  and  told  him  he  was  the  brother 
to  his  father;  then  inquiring  where  his  mother  lived,  he 
gave  the  lad  a  handful  of  small  money,  and  bade  him  tell 
her  he  would  come  and  sup  with  her. 

Aladdin  ran  home  to  his  mother,  and  related  to  her  all 
the  particulars.  The  old  woman  told  him  that  she  never 
heard  his  father  talk  of  a  brother  ;  but  as  the  stranger  had 
treated  him  so  kindly,  and  given  him  money  enough  to 
provide  a  supper,  she  would  make  ready  to  receive  him. 
In  the  evening  the  new  relation  came,  and  embracing  the 
widow  of  Mustapha,  shed  many  tears,  lamenting  that  he 
had  not  arrived  sooner  that  he  might  have  seen  his 
brother.  He  then  produced  some  fine  fruits  and  wines, 
and  they  sat  down  to  supper. 

During  their  meal  the  magician  pretended  to  admire 
Aladdin  much.  "  He  must  be  very  like  what  his  father 
was  at  his  age,"  said  he;  "for  though  it  is  forty  years 
since  I  left  my  native  country,  my  love  for  my  brother 
kept  his  features  in  my  mind,  and  I  recollected  them  the 
instant  I  saw  him."  Then  turning  to  Aladdin,  he  asked 
him  what  trade  he  had  chosen?  Aladdin,  who  was 
ashamed  of  his  not  being  able  to  answer  such  a  question, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  113 

hung  down  his  head  and  blushed ;  but  his  mother  replied 
that  he  was  an  idle  fellow,  who  would  do  nothing  but  loi- 
ter in  the  streets ;  and  went  on  giving  him  the  character 
he  deserved. 

Aladdin  was  covered  with  confusion  at  his  mother's 
report  of  him  ;  and  the  magician  added  to  his  concern  by 
blaming  him  severely.  He  recommended  to  the  young 
man  th&fc  he  should  apply  himself  to  traffic.  "  I,"  said  he, 
"  can  instruct  you  how  to  buy  your  goods.  I  will  take  a 
shop,  and  furnish  it  for  you  with  stuffs  and  linens.  These 
I  will  give  you  to  begin  with,  if  you  will  promise  to  be 
diligent."  Aladdin  did  not  want  sense,  though  he  hated 
work  ;  he  knew  that  the  keepers  of  such  shops  were  re- 
spected ;  he  accepted  therefore  his  new  uncle's  offer  with 
great  thankfulness. 

The  day  following,  the  magician  called  upon  them  again 
early.  He  took  Aladdin  out  with  him,  and  gave  him  hand- 
some clothes,  suitable  to  the  station  of  a  merchant ;  he  put 
some  money  also  in  his  pocket,  and  made  a  treat  for  some 
principal  merchants,  on  purpose  to  introduce  his  pretended 
nephew  to  them.  Aladdin  and  his  mother  were  by  these 
means  completely  deceived.  They  never  doubted  but  the 
man  who  heaped  so  many  favors  upon  them  was  really 
their  near  relation,  and  blessed  Providence  for  their  good 
fortune  in  being  found  out  by  him. 

The  magician  continued  caressing  them  till  he  had  ob- 
tained full  possession  of  their  confidence.  One  evening  at 
supper,  he  said  to  his  pretended  sister-in-law,  "  I  am  think- 
ing, as  to-morrow  will  be  Friday,  to  take  Aladdin  and 
show  him  thf  gardens  out  of  town,  where  tbe  gentry 
walk;  and  as  he  has  never  been  there,  and  probably  will 
.ike  to  see  them  all,  I  will  take  some  refreshments  with 
as,  and  we  will  not  return  till  night."  To  this  proposal, 
Aladdin  and  his  mother  consented  with  great  pleasure. 

In  the  morning,  the  young  man,  dressed  in  all  his  new 
finery,  attended  the  magician  accordingly.  He  took  him 
to  the  gardens  belonging  to  the  sumptuous  palaces  of  the 
nobility,  which  were  situated  out  of  the  city.  Aladdin, 
having  never  eeen  anything  so  elegant,  was  highly  de» 
10*  H 


114  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

lighted  His  false  uncle  drew  him  by  degrees  bcyona 
them,  into  the  champaign  that  led  to  the  mountains,  amus- 
ing him  all  the  way  with  pleasant  stories,  intermixed  with 
advice  to  drop  his  boyish  acquaintance,  and  converse  with 
men.  Aladdin,  though  well  pleased  with  this  discourse, 
began  to  tire,  which  the  magician  perceiving,  proposed 
that  they  should  sit  down  and  rest.  He  then  produced  a 
parcel  of  cakes  and  sweetmeats,  and  gave  the  lad  as  many 
as  he  chose,  after  which  they  pursued  their  walk. 

At  length  they  came  to  a  valley  which  separated  two 
mountains  of  considerable  height.  The  magician  told 
Aladdin  he  would  show  him  some  things  very  extraordi- 
nary. He  directed  him  to  gather  a  parcel  of  dry  sticks 
and  kindle  a  fire;  which  being  done,  the  African  cast  a 
perfume  in  it,  and  pronounced  certain  magical  words ; 
immediately  a  great  smoke  arose,  after  which  the  earth 
trembled  a  little,  and  opening,  discovered  a  stone  about 
half  a  yard  square.  Aladdin  was  so  frightened  at  what 
he  saw,  that  he  would  have  run  away  ;  but  the  magician 
catching  hold  of  him,  gave  him  so  violent  a  blow  that  it 
knocked  him  down. 

The  youth  arose,  and  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  asked  his 
supposed  uncle  what  he  had  done  to  merit  such  severity. 
The  African's  view  was  to  make  the  boy  stand  in  awe  of 
him,  that  he  might  without  hesitation  obey  his  orders,  and 
execute  what  he  had  for  him  to  do.  He  chid  him  there- 
fore for  his  want  of  resolution  and  confidence  in  him, 
whom  he  ought  to  consider  as  his  second  father.  He  then 
began  to  talk  to  him  with  his  usual  affability.  "There  is 
hidden,"  said  he,  "under  that  stone  an  immense  treasure, 
which  you  may  possess  if  you  carefully  observe  my  in- 
structions." Aladdin  promised  the  most  exact  obedience. 
The  magician  embraced  him,  and  putting  a  ring  on  his 
finger,  bade  him  pronounce  the  name  of  his  father  and 
grandfather,  and  raise  up  the  stone.  Aladdin  did  as  he 
was  directed  ;  and  notwithstanding  its  immense  size,  he 
removed  the  stone  with  great  ease,  and  discovered  a  hole 
several  feet  deep,  and  steps  to  descend  lower. 

"  Observe,"  said  the  African,  ■'  what  I  am  going  to  say 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTER1 AIN  MENTS.  115 

to  you.  Not  only  the  possession  of  the  treasure,  but  your 
life  itself  will  depend  on  your  punctual  attention.  Though 
I  have  opened  this  cave,  I  am  forbidden  to  enter  it;  tbat 
honor  is  permitted  only  to  you.  Go  down  boldly  then. 
You  will  find  at  the  bottom  of  tbese  steps,  three  great 
halls,  in  each  of  which  you  will  see  a  large  number  of 
coffers  full  of  gold  and  silver.  Be  sure  you  do  not  meddle 
with  them  ;  nor  must  you  suffer  your  very  clothes  to  touch 
the  walls.  If  you  do,  you  will  instantly  perish.  When 
you  are  through  these  halls,  you  will  come  to  a  garden. 
Here  you  will  be  perfectly  safe,  and  may  handle  anything 
you  see.  At  the  further  end  of  it  you  will  find  a  lamp, 
burning  in  a  niche.  Take  that  lamp  down,  throw  away 
the  wick,  pour  out  the  liquor,  and  put  the  lamp  in  your 
bosom  to  bring  to  me." 

Aladdin  obeyed  exactly  his  supposed  uncle.  He  went 
through  the  halls  with  as  much  precaution  as  the  fear  of 
death  could  inspire.  He  crossed  the  garden,  secured  the 
lamp  in  his  bosom,  and  then  began  to  look  about  with  ease 
and  composure.  He  found  the  trees  were  loaded  with 
fruits  of  many  colors.  Transparent,  white,  red,  green, 
blue,  purple,  and  yellow.  The  transparent  were  dia- 
monds;  the  white,  pearls;  the  red,  rubies;  the  green, 
emeralds;  the  blue,  turquoises;  the  purple,  amethysts; 
and  the  yellow,  sapphires.  All  these  fruits  were  large, 
and  uncommonly  beautiful.  Aladdin,  though  he  knew 
nothing  of  their  value,  was  yet  much  pleased  with  them; 
and  as  he  had  been  told  he  might  safely  meddle  with  any- 
thing in  the  garden,  he  filled  his  pockets  with  some  of 
each  sort,  and  even  crammed  as  many  as  he  could  into  his 
bosom.  He  then  returned  through  the  halls  with  the 
same  precaution  as  before;  and  having  ascended  the  steps, 
he  called  out  to  his  uncle  to  assist  him  with  his  hand,  and 
pull  him  out  of  the  cave. 

Nothi-ng  could  be  further  from  the  intention  of  the  ma- 
gician than  to  deliver  Aladdin  from  the  cave.  He  had 
found  by  his  books  that  there  was  such  a  lamp  concealed 
in  a  subterraneous  abode  .n  China,  which  would  render  the 
possessor  more  powerful  than  any  prince  in  the  world 


116  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

but  as  he  was  n^t  permitted  to  enter  the  place  himself,  he 
resolved  therefore  to  seduce  some  friendless  boy  to  fetch 
him  the  wondei'ful  talisman,  and  having  gained  it,  to  shut 
up  the  cave,  and  leave  him  to  his  fate.  When  Aladdin 
therefore  called  out  for  his  assistance,  he  called  as  loudly 
for  the  lamp.  The  young  man  would  have  readily  given  it 
to  him,  if  he  had  not  buried  it  in  his  bosom  by  the  quantity 
of  jewels  he  had  put  over  it;  and  being  ashamed  to  own 
that,  he  entreated  his  supposed  uncle  to  help  him  out,  and 
he  would  deliver  it  to  him  immediately. 

The  dispute  had  lasted  a  short  time,  and  neither  of 
them  was  disposed  to  give  way,  when  the  magician  turned 
his  head,  and  saw  some  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  were 
entering  the  valley.  Fear  of  being  discovered  by  them, 
and  rage  at  the  obstinacy  of  the  young  man,  overcame 
every  other  consideration.  He  pronounced  two  magical 
words,  which  replaced  the  stone  and  closed  the  earth. 
By  this  means  he  lost  all  hope  of  obtaining  the  lamp, 
since  it  was  forever  out  of  his  power  to  open  the  cave 
again,  or  to  teach  others  how  to  do  it.  But  he  gratified 
his  revenge  on  the  author  of  his  disappointment,  by  de- 
livering up  Aladdin,  as  he  supposed,  to  certain  death.  He 
set  off  immediately  for  his  own  country,  taking  care  not 
to  return  to  the  city,  lest  he  should  be  questioned  respect- 
ing his  pretended  nephew. 

Aladdin  was  exceedingly  terrified  to  find  himself  thus 
buried  alive.  He  cried  out,  and  called  to  his  uncle,  offer- 
ing to  give  him  the  lamp  immediately ;  but  it  was  too 
late.  As  the  cave  was  entirely  dark,  he  thought  of  return- 
ing through  the  halls  into  the  garden,  which  was  light; 
but  here  also  he  was  disappointed.  The  door,  which  had 
been  opened  by  enchantment,  being  now  shut. 

In  this  state  he  continued  two  days;  when,  in  an  agony 
of  distress,  he  clasped  his  hands  together,  and  rubbed  the 
ring  the  magician  had  put  upon  his  finger,  and  which,  in 
his  hurry  to  obtain  the  lamp,  he  had  entirely  forgotten  to 
take  away.  Immediately  an  enormous  genie  rose  out  of 
the  earth,  with  a  torch  in  his  hand,  which  illuminated  the 
cave  as  though  the  sun  had  shone  in  it,  and  said  to  him, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  117 

"What  wouldst  thou?  I  am  ready  to  obey  thee  as  thy 
Blave,  while  thou  wearest  that  ring;  I  ard  the  other  slaves 
of  the  ring." 

At  another  time  Aladdin  would  have  been  terrified  to 
death  at  such  an  appearance ;  but  despair  gave  <him  cour- 
age. He  replied  rapidly,  "  I  charge  you,  by  the  ring,  if 
you  are  able,  to  release  me  from  this  place."  He  had  no 
sooner  spoken,  than  the  earth  opened ;  the  geni'e  lifted 
him  up  to  the  surface,  and  immediately  disappeared,  the 
earth  closing  again  at  the  same  instant. 

Aladdin  rejoiced  greatly  at  his  deliverance,  and  found  his 
way  home  without  much  difficulty ;  but  he  was  so  agitated 
by  his  past  terrors,  and  faint  for  want  of  sustenance,  that  it 
was  some  time  before  he  could  relate  the  particulars  of  his 
adventure.  His  mother  congratulated  him  on  his  escape 
from  such  imminent  danger,  and  was  not  sparing  of  her 
execrations  against  the  treacherous  impostor  who  led  him 
into.  it. 

The  next  morning  when  Aladdin  got  up  he  was  very 
hungry,  and  called  upon  his  mother  for  some  breakfast. 
"Alas!  child,"  she  said,  "I  have  been  so  distressed  on 
your  account,  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  do  any  work 
these  two  days,  so  that  I  have  no  money  to  buy  any  pro- 
vision ;  and  all  I  had  in  the  bouse,  you-  ate  yesterday. 
But,"  continued  she,  "  here  is  the  lamp  you  brought  home, 
and  which  had  like  to  cost  you  your  life ;  it  seems  to  be  a 
very  good  one.  I  will  clean  it ;  and  I  dare  say  it  will  sell 
for  money  enough  to  keep  us  until  I  have  spun  some  more 
cotton."  Saying  this,  she  took  some  sand,  and  began  to 
rub  it,  when  in  an  instant  a  genie  of  gigantic  size  stood 
before  her,  and  said,  "  What  wouldst  thou  ?  I  am  ready  to 
obey  thee  as  thy  slave ;  the  slave  of  all  those  who  hold  that 
lamp  in  their  hands  ;  I  and  the  other  slaves  of  the  lamp." 

Aladdin's  mother  swooned  away  at  the  sight  of  the  ge- 
nie ;  but  her  son,  who  had  once  before  seen  such  another, 
caught  the  lamp  out  of  her  hand,  and  said,  "I  am  hungry ; 
bring  me  something  to  eat  presently."  The  genie  disap- 
peared ;  and  presently  returned  with  a  large  silver  basin 
containing  twelve  covered  plates  of  the  same  metal,  all 


118  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

full  of  the  choicest  dainties,  with  six  white  loaves,  and  two 
bottles  of  sherbet.  Having  placed  these  things  on  the 
table,  he  disappeared. 

When  Aladdin's  mother  recovered,  she  was  very  much 
pleased  to  see  such  a  plenty  of  nice  provisions.  She  sat 
down  with  her  son,  and  they  feasted  abundantly.  When 
they  had  done,  the  old  lady  inquired  what  had  passed  be- 
tween the  genie  and  her  son,  while  she  was  in  her  swoon. 

On  being  informed  that  her  rubbing  the  lamp  had  caused 
the  genie  to  appear,  she  protested  against  ever  touching 
it  again,  and  earnestly  advised  her  son  to  sell  it.  Young 
as  he  was,  he  had  more  prudence.  He  remonstrated  with 
her  on  the  great  pains  his  false  uncle  had  taken  to  procure 
the  talisman ;  on  the  use  it  had  now  been  to  them,  and 
would  no  doubt  continue  to  be ;  as  they  might  live  com- 
fortably without  labor.  Lastly,  that,  as  he  was  now  used  to 
the  appearance  of  genii,  he  would  rub  the  lamp,  when  he 
wanted  anything,  at  a  time  when  she  was  not  in  the  way. 
His  mother  answered,  that  he  might  do  as  he  pleased ; 
but  for  her  part  she  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  genii. 

The'next  day,  the  provisions  being  all  gone,  Aladdin 
took  one  of  the  plates,  and  went  to  a  Jewish  merchant  to 
sell  it.  The  Jew  soon  perceived  it  was  of  the  purest  sil- 
ver, but  thinking  the  owner  ignorant  of  the  value,  he 
offered  a  piece  of  gold  for  it.  Aladdin  thought  he  had 
made  a  good  bargain.  He  gave  the  money  to  his  mother, 
and  they  lived  upon  it  in  their  usual  frugal  manner,  as 
long  as  it  lasted.  Aladdin  then  sold  another  plate,  and  so 
on  till  they  had  only  the  basin  left ;  and  that  being  very 
large,  the  Jew  gave  him  two  pieces  for  it,  which  supported 
them  a  considerable  time. 

When  all  the  money  was  spent,  Aladdin  had  recourse 
again  to  the  lamp,  and  the  genie  supplied  the  table  with 
another  silver  basin  and  the  same  number  of  covered  plates 
equally  well  filled. 

The  provisions  being  all  consumed,  Aladdin  was  going, 
as  before,  wii,h  one  of  the  plates  to  the  Jew,  when  he  was 
called  to  by  a  goldsmith,  who  asked  him  if  he  had  any- 
thing to  sell.     "  You  go  often,"  said  he,  "  to  that  Jew,  who 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  119 

is  the  greatest  cheat  among  his  brethren  ;  if  you  deal  with 
him,  he  will  certainly  defraud  you."  Aladdin  produced 
his  plate,  which  the  goldsmith  weighed,  and  counted  him 
down  sixty  pieces  of  gold  for  it.  The  young  man  thanked 
the  honest  shopkeepei*,  to  whom  he  afterward  sold  the 
other  plates  and  the  basin. 

Aladdin  and  his  mother  very  prudently  continued  to 
live  as  usual  for  several  years ;  only  he  went  more  neat, 
and  instead  of  associating  with  mean  fellows,  he  by  de- 
grees insinuated  himself  into  the  good  opinion  of  the  first 
merchants  and  jewellers  of  the  city.  Hence,  besides  ob- 
taining a  general  knowledge  of  the  world,  which  rendered 
him  a  pleasant  and  agreeable  companion,  he  became  ac- 
quainted with  the  true  value  of  those  jewels  he  had 
brought  from  the  garden  in  the  subterraneous  cave.  These 
he  had  considered  as  colored  glass  only,  and  had  suffered 
them  to  lie  unnoticed  in  a  couple  of  bags,  under  one  of  the 
cushions  of  the  sofa.  But  though  he  found  himself  pos- 
sessed of  immense  wealth,  yet  he  persisted  in  living  pri- 
vately, even  humbly ;  devoting  his  whole  time  to  the  im- 
provement of  his  understanding. 

Accident  put  an  end  to  this  philosophical  indolence, 
scarcely  excusable  in  a  young  man.  One  day  as  Aladdin 
was  walking  in  the  town,  he  heard  an  order  of  the  sultan 
published,  for  all  the  people  to  shut  their  shops  and  keep 
within  doors,  while  the  princess  Badroulboudour  (that  is, 
full  moon  of  full  moons),  the  sultan's  daughter,  went  to 
the  baths.  Aladdin  was  seized  with  a  great  desire  to 
see  the  princess ;  to  accomplish  which,  he  contrived  to  get 
behind  the  outer  door  of  the  bath,  where  he  remained 
unobserved 

As  the  princess  approached  the  door,  attended  only  by 
her  eunuchs  and  women,  she  laid  aside  her  veil,  and  gave 
Aladdin  an  opportunity  to  have  a  full  view  of  her.  lill 
now  he  had  never  seen  any  woman's  face  but  his  mother  s. 
He  supposed,  therefore,  that  all  women  were  like  her,  atd 
thought  of  them  with  indifference.  But  the  instant  he  saw 
the  princess,  who  was  exceedingly  lovely,  he  felt  emotions 
he  had  till  then  been  a  stranger  to.     When  she  had  en- 


120  arabia'n  nights'  entertainments. 

tered  tho  inner  doors,  he  returned  home,  pensive,  yet 
delighted.  He  passed  the  evening  in  melancholy  and 
silence,  and  the  night  in  indulging  the  starts  of  a  restless 
and  disturbed  imagination. 

Next  moi'ning  he  behaved  with  the  same  reserve  and 
sadness.  His  mother  had  perceived  before  his  change  of 
behavior,  and  thought  something  had  happened  to  dis- 
please him.  But  finding  the  same  appearance  next  day, 
she  became  solicitous  to  know  the  reason  of  it.  Aladdin, 
after  musing  some  time,  told  her  the  cause  of  his  uneasi- 
ness, concluding  with  saying,  "  I  love  the  charming  prin- 
cess with  so  much  ardor,  that  I  find  I  cannot  live  without 
her,  and  am  resolved  to  ask  her  in  marriage  of  the  sultan, 
her  father." 

Aladdin's  mother  heard  with  attention  and  concern  ; 
but  when  he  came  to  so  extravagant  a  determination,  she 
burst  into  a  loud  laughter.  "My  dear  son,"  she  said,  "do 
you  consider  who  you  are,  that  have  the  boldness  to  think 
of  your  sovereign's  daughter  for  a  wife  ?  Do  you  not  re- 
member that  your  father  was  a  poor  tailor,  and  that  I  am 
of  as  mean  extraction?  Sultans,  if  they  ever  give  their 
daughters  to  their  subjects,  give  them  to  those  who  have 
distinguished  themselves  in  the  service  of  their  country. 
Where,  then,  are  your  pretensions?  Lay  aside,  I  pray 
you,  those  fancies,  which  are  enough  to  make  me  think 
you  out  of  your  senses." 

Aladdin,  notwithstanding,  declared  his  resolution  to 
persist.  "Who  do  you  expect,"  said  his  mother,  "will  be 
hardy  enough  to  demand  the  princess  of  the  sultan  for 
you,  according  to  the  custom  of  our  country?"  "You, 
undoubtedly,"  replied  her  son.  "  I  shall  take  care,"  said 
she  hastily,  "  how  I  engage  in  such  an  affair.  I  go  to  the 
sultan  on  such  a  message ! "  continued  the  old  woman  ; 
"  had  you  wished  me  to  apply  to  some  neighbor  for  his 
daughter  in  marriage,  it  had  been  well;  but  to  seek  the 
daughter  of  the  sultan,  who  at  one  word  can  crush  you  to 
atoms!  what  extravagant  madness!  besides,  no.  one  ap- 
proaches the  sovereign,  you  know,  to  ask  a  favor  without 
a  present. ,    What  have  you  to  offer  the  sultan  worthy  his 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  121 

acceptance,  even  for  his  smallest  favors,  much  less  for  tho 
highest  he  can  bestow  ?'' 

"I  own,"  replied  Aladdin,  "  my  wishes  are  extravagant; 
but  I  love  the  princess  so  ardently,  that  I  must  resign  my 
life  if  I  do  not  succeed  ;  nor  should  you  think  me  without 
resources,  when  you  recollect  what  the  lamp  I  possess 
has  already  done  for  us.  As  to  a  proper  offering  to  the 
sultan,  I  am  able  to  furnish  you  with  one  which  I  am  sure 
he  will  gladly  accept." 

Aladdin  then  arranged  the  jewels  he  had  brought  from 
the  garden,  in  a  vessel  of  fine  porcelain,  which  showed 
them  to  great  advantage  ;  and  persuaded  his  mother,  who 
consented  with  infinite  reluctance,  to  carry  them  to  the 
sultan.  "  Depend  upon  it,  my  son,"  said  she,  "  your  pres- 
ent will  be  thrown  away.  The  sultan  will  either  laugh  at 
me,  or  be  in  so  great  a  rage  that  he  wiil  make  us  both  the 
victims  of  his  fury." 

The  day  following,  Aladdin's  mother  appeared  at- the 
divan,  and  was  admitted  with  the  other  suitors,  who 
pleaded  their  causes  before  the  sultan.  She  placed  her- 
self in  full  view  of  that  prince,  having  her  present  tied  up 
in  a  white  fine  napkin,  but  never  attempted  to  approach 
him  to  declare  her  business.  "When  the  divan  broke  up 
she  retired,  and  returned  again  the  next  council  day, 
when  she  placed  herself  as  before. 

She  continued  to  do  so  for  some  time,  till  at  length  the 
sultan  took  notice  of  her,  and  ordered  the  grand  vizier  to 
introduce  her  to  him.  Aladdin's  mother,  by  the  example 
of  others,  had  learned  to  prostrate  herself  before  the 
throne.  The  sultan  bade  her  rise,  and  said  to  her,  "Good 
woman,  I  have  observed  you  to  attend  very  often  from  the 
beginning  to  the  rising  of  the  divan;  what  is  your  busi- 
ness?" 

Aladdin's  mother  replied,  "Before  I  presume  to  tell 
your  majesty  the  extraordinary  and  almost  incredible  af- 
fair which  brings  me  before  you,  I  must  most  humbly 
request  the  favor  of  being  heard  by  you  in  private,  and  also 
that  you  will  pardon  me  the  bold,  or  rather  imprudent 
demand  I  have  to  make."  L'he  sultan's  curiosity  was 
11 


122  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS. 

much  excited  by  this  preface;  he  ordered  everybody  to 
withdraw  but  the  grand  vizier  and  the  petitioner,  and 
then  directed  her  to  proceed. 

She  was  in  no  hurry  to  do  so,  being  very  solicitous  to 
obtain  pardon  for  her  presumption  before  she  began.  The 
sultan,  partly  tired  with  her  prattle,  and  partly  impatient 
to  know  what  she  had  to  ask,  gave  her  assurance  of  the 
most  ample  pardon,  and  again  ordered  her  to  relate  her 
business,  and  speak  boldly. 

Thus  encouraged,  the  old  lady  told  him  faithfully  in 
what  manner  her  son  had  seen  the  princess,  and  the  vio- 
\ent  love  for  her  which  that  sight  had  inspired  him  with. 
She  went  on  with  much  pi-olixity  to  describe  the  debates 
which  had  passed  between  them  on  the  subject,  and  con- 
cluded by  formally  demanding  the  princess  in  marriage 
for  her  son  ;  at  the  same  time  she  bowed  down  before  the 
throne,  and  laid  her  present  at  the  foot  of  it. 

From  the  manners  and  appearance  of  the  petitioner, 
nothing  could  seem  more  preposterous  to  the  sultan  than 
such  a  proposal.  The  instant  he  heard  it,  he  burst  into 
laughter;  while  the  grand  vizier,  who  had  reason  to  hope 
that  his  master  intended  the  princess  for  his  son,  looked 
on  the  old  woman  with  eyes  of  indignation.  "When  the 
sultan  had  recovered  himself  a  little,  he  said  to  her,  still 
laughing,  "You  have  brought  a  present,  I  see,  to  forward 
your  suit ;  pray  let  me  look  at  it."  Aladdin's  mother 
hastened  to  lift  it  up;  and  the  sultan,  who  expected  some 
trivial  matter,  was  astonished,  when  she  removed  the 
napkin,  to  see  so  many  inestimable  jewels  set  before  him, 
the  smallest  of  which  very  far  surpassed,  in  beauty  and 
value,  any  in  his  own  treasury. 

The  vizier  was  no  less  chagrined  than  amazed  at  the 
sight  of  them;  with  the  more  reason,  as  he  plainly  saw 
they  had  made  great  impression  on  the  sultan,  who  asked 
him  if  the  proposals  of  a  man  offering  so  magnificent  an 
introductory  present  ought  not  to  be  listened  to.  The 
vizier  entreated  his  master  to  put  off  his  ansA^er  to  a  dis- 
tant day ;  and  the  sultan,  who  was  much  swayed  by  his 
minister,  t<  Id  the  old  lady  to  return  again  in  three  months, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  128 

hinting  that  very  probably  the  answer  then  would  not 
be  unfavorable. 

Aladdin's  mother  was  overjoyed  at  a  reception  so  much 
beyond  her  hopes.  She  hastened  home  to  her  son,  who 
received  her  report  with  transport.  Three  months  indeed 
seemed  an  age ;  but  as  he  had  never  hoped  to  succeed 
without  infinitely  more  difficulty,  his  joy  was  unbounded. 

Two  of  the  three  months  passed  in  this  delirium  of 
happiness,  from  which  he  was  aroused  by  news  which 
at  once  dispersed  it.  His  mother  having  domestic  busi- 
ness in  the  city,  found  all  the  shops  shut,  and  prepara- 
tions making  everywhere  for  a  general  illumination.  On 
inquiring  the  cause,  she  was  told  that  the  son  of  the  grand 
vizier  was  that  night  to  be  married  to  the  Princess  Bad- 
roulboudour.  The  truth  was,  the  vizier  having  been 
alarmed  at  Aladdin's  application,  had  taken  every  possible 
means  to  forward  the  suit  of  his  son ;  and  being  a  skilful 
courtier  and  a  great  favorite,  he  prevailed  with  his  master 
to  set  aside  his  engagement  with  a  stranger,  and  complete 
the  intended  nuptials  between  the  princess  and  the  son 
of  his  minister. 

Aladdin  was  in  despair  at  receiving  this  intelligence. 
He  retired  to  his  chamber  and  rubbed  his  lamp;  the  genie 
immediately  appeared,  and  made  the  usual  tender  of  his 
services.  "Hear  me  with  attention,"  said  Aladdin;  "I 
have  ever  had  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  your  zeal  for  the 
lamp,  in  those  matters  I  have  applied  to  you  for  since  I 
have  been  in  possession  of  it;  a  greater  concern  now  calls 
for  an  exertion  of  j^onr  power  and  fidelity."  He  then 
related  to  him  all  the  particulars  of  his  application  to  the 
sultan,  and  of  his  present  fears;  and  concluded  with  com- 
manding him,  the  instant  the  bride  and  the  bridegroom 
were  alone,  to  bring  them  in  their  bed  to  his  chamber 
The  genie  promised  punctual  obedie/ice,  and  disappeared. 

At  the  palace  the  usual  nuptial  ceremonies  were  com- 
pleted. The  bride  was  conveyed  to  her  bed ;  and  the  jo- 
cund bridegroom,  admitted  to  her  chamber,  shut  out  all 
intruders,  and  triumphed  over  his  obscure  rival.  But  the 
moment  he  had  set  his  feet  on  the  bed,  it  was  conveyed 


124  ARABIAN   NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS. 

away,  with  him  and  his  bride,  to  a  mean  chamber.  Alad- 
din was  waiting  for  them.  He  ordered  the  genie  (who 
was  only  seen  by  himself)  to  take  the  bridegroom  and  fix 
him  immovably  in  an  outer  house.  He  then  said  a  few 
words  to  encourage  the  princess,  and  laying  a  sabre  be- 
tween them,  as  a  proof  that  her  honor  was  secure,  he 
passed  the  night  by  her  side. 

In  the  morning  he  summoned  the  genie  to  release  the 
bridegroom,  and  convey  them  back  to  the  palace.  This 
he  performed  so  exactly,  that  the  bed  was  deposited  in 
.the  nuptial  chamber  at  the  instant  the  mother  of  the  prin- 
cess was  opening  her  door  to  pay  her  morning  respects  to 
her  daughter.  The  vizier's  son,  hearing  her  approach, 
ran  to  the  wardrobe  to  put  on  his  clothes,  being  almost 
benumbed  with  cold. 

The  sultaness  was  surprised  to  be  received  by  her  daugh- 
ter with  evident  marks  of  discontent.  For  a  long  time 
the  princess  resisted  the  entreaties  of  her  mother,  and 
refused  to  relate  the  cause  of  her  uneasiness ;  but  at  length 
was  persuaded  to  tell  her  all  that  had  happened.  The  sul- 
taness was  out  of  patience  at  a  narrative  so  improbable. 
"You  will  do  well,"  said  she  to  her  daughter,  "not  to 
repeat  this  fable  to  any  one  else.  Where  is  your  hus- 
band ?  I  shall  talk  with  him,  and  see  if  he  has  had  the 
same  vision." 

The  son  of  the  vizier,  though  exceedingly  mortified  at 
the  transactions  of  the  past  night,  was  yet  too  proud  of 
the  honor  of  being  allied  to  the  sultan  to  forego  it  readily; 
he  hoped  also  that  the  enchantment  which  had  distressed 
him  was  now  at  an  end ;  at  any  rate  he  resolved  to  con- 
ceal what  had  befallen  him  for  the  present.  "When,  there- 
fore, the  sultaness  asked  him  if  he  was  as  much  infatuated 
as  his  wife,  he  pretended  not  to  understand  the  question: 
on  which  the  sultaness  answered  with  pleasure,  "  It  is 
enough;  I  see  you  are' wiser  than  she." 

The  rejoicings  in  the  palace  were  renewed,  and  all  ap- 
peared desirous  to  promote  the  pleasure  of  the  bride  and 
bridegroom.  The  vizier's  son  counterfeited  so  well,  that 
everybody  thought  him  a  happy  man  ;  but  the  affliction 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  125 

of  the  princess  was  very  slightly  concealed.  The  sultan, 
who  was  extravagantly  fond  of  her,  saw  it  witri  great  con- 
cern ;  and  though  he  did  not  choose  to  interrupt  the  jov 
of  the  court  at  that  moment,  yet  he  resolved  to  inquire 
very  minutely  into  the  cause  of  it  the  day  following. 

At  night  the  moment  the  princess  and  her  spouse  were 
in  bed,  the  distress  of  the  past  night  was  renewed.  They 
were  again  conveyed  to  Aladdin's  chamber,  the  bridegroom 
was  disposed  of  as  before,  the  sabre  was  again  deposited 
between  the  princess  and  a  stranger,  and  in  the  morning 
they  were  re-conveyed  to  their  own  chamber  at  the  in- 
stant that  the  attendants  were  entering  it  to  announce  the 
sultan. 

That  tender  father  was  anxious  and  impatient  to  know 
the  cause  of  his  daughter's  sorrow.  He  came,  therefore, 
as  early  as  convenient  to  her  antechamber,  and  desired  to 
see  her.  The  princess  rose  immediately  and  attended  him. 
A  general  explanation  now  took  place.  The  princess  in- 
formed her  father  in  what  manner  she  had  spent  the  two 
preceding  nights ;  the  vizier's  son  confirmed  the  account, 
and,  under  pretence  of  consulting  the  happiness  of  the 
princess,  was  the  first  to  request  that  the  marriage  might 
be  dissolved.  A  stop  was  put  to  all  rejoicings,  and  the 
marriage  was  publicly  declared  void.  Manj  conjectures 
were  made  as  to  the  cause  of  this  event,  which  became 
generally  talked  of.  Aladdin  heard  of  it  with  great  joy; 
but  took  care  to  keep  secret  the  share  he  had  in  the  ad- 
venture. 

When  the  three  months  were  expired,  Aladdin  sent  his 
mother  to  the  divan  as  before.  The  sultan  remembered 
her;  but  having  no  inclination  to  give  the  princess  to  her 
son,  he  consulted  his  vizier  on  the  subject,  who  advised 
him  to  demand  of  Aladdin  a  nuptial  present  so  exceed- 
ingly valuable  that  it  would  be  out  of  his  power  to  procure 
it.  The  sultan  was  well  pleased  with  the  advice,  which 
he  doubted  not  would  effectually  prevent  his  hearing  any 
more  of  Aladdin.  He  beckoned  the  old  woman  to  him, 
and  told  her  he  was  ready  to  give  the  princess  to  her  son, 
provided  he  sent  him  forty  basins  of  massy  gold,  full  of 
11* 


*5Jb  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  same  kind  of  stones  she  had  given  him  before ;  each 
basin  to  he  carried  by  a  black  slave  led  by  a  }roung  and 
handsome  white  slave,  all  of  them  magnificently  dressed. 
"  Go,"  said  he,  "  and  tell  him  on  these  conditions  I  am 
**eady  to  receive  him  as  my  son-in-law." 

The  old  lady  returned  home  much  dejected.  She 
thought  it  utterly  impossible  for  her  son  to  comply  with 
this  demand,  and  dreaded  the  effects  of  his  disappoint- 
ment. Aladdin  heard  her  report  with  great  pleasure;  and 
summoning  the  genie,  requested  he  would  immediately 
provide  the  present  the  sultan  had  demanded,  that  it 
might  be  sent  before  the  divan  broke  up. 

In  a  few  minutes  the  house  of  Aladdin  was  filled  by  the 
eighty  slaves  :  forty  black  ones,  bearing  large  golden  basins 
filled  with  all  sorts  of  jewels,  each  basin  being  covered 
with  a  silver  stuff  embroidered  with  flowers  of  gold. 
Aladdin  pressed  his  mother  to  return  to  the  sultan  and 
present  him  with  the  dowry  he  had  demanded;  and,  open- 
ing the  door,  he  ordered  a  white  slave  to  go  out,  and  a 
black  one  with  his  basin  to  follow.  In  this  order  they  all 
set  forth,  and  the  mother  of  Aladdin  closed  the  procession. 

The  splendid  habits  of  the  slaves,  and  the  beauty  and 
gracefulness  of  their  persons,  attracted  every  eye.  They 
proceeded  slowly,  and  at  equal  distances  from  each  other, 
and  as  they  marched  through  the  city,  the  people  crowded 
to  see  them.  When  they  arrived  at  the  palace,  the  porters 
would  have  received  them  with  the  highest  honors;  but 
he  who  came  first,  being  instructed  by  the  genie,  said, 
"  We  are  only  slaves  ;  our  master  will  appear  in  due  time." 

When  they  entered  the  divan,  they  formed  a  semicircle 
before  the  throne,  the  black  slaves  laid  the  basins  on  the 
carpets  and  uncovered  them,  and  the  whole  company 
having  paid  proper  compliments  to  the  sovereign,  stood 
with  their  arms  crossed  over  with  great  modesty. 

The  sultan  surveyed  the  whole  with  the  utmost  amaze- 
ment and  satisfaction.  The  vizier  himself,  notwithstand 
ing  his  grief  and  envy,  was  obliged  to  own  that  Aladdin's 
present  merited  his  reception  into  the  royal  family.  All 
the  court  concurred  in  his  opinion;   and  the  sultan  dis- 


ARABIA  X    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS.  127 

missed  the  old  lady  with  directions  for  her  son  to  haster 
and  receive  the  princess  from  the  hands  of  her  fati  er. 

The  joy  with  which  Aladdin  received  this  message  was 
unutterable.  He  summoned  the  genie,  and  said,  "  Genie, 
I  want  to  bathe.  Provide  me  also  with  proper  apparel 
and  equipage,  that  I  may  visit  the  sultan,  who  has  con- 
sented to  receive  me  as  a  son."  As  soon  as  he  had  spoken 
these  words,  he  was  conveyed  to  a  bath,  where  he  was 
undressed  without  seeing  by  wbom,  and  washed  with  all 
sorts  of  fine-scented  water.  When  he  had  bathed,  he  was 
quite  a  different  man  from  what  he  had  been  before.  His 
skin  was  clear,  his  complexion  improved,  and  his  whole 
body  lightsome  and  easy.  The  genie  clothed  him  with  a 
most  magnificent  habit,  and  conveyed  him  home,  where 
he  found  a  number  of  attendants  ready  to  wait  on  him 
and  his  mother  to  the  palace. 

The  genie  supplied  him  writh  ten  purses  of  gold,  which 
he  gave  to  the  slaves  who  went  before  him,  and  they  threw 
handfuls  of  it  on  each  side  among  the  populace.  By  this 
liberality  he  gained  the  affections  of  the  people ;  even  those 
of  a  higher  order,  though  they  did  not  scramble  for  the 
money,  were  pleased  with  his  bounty  to  the  common 
people.  He  was  so  altered  that  his  former  companions 
did  not  know  him;  for  such  were  the  effects  of  the  lamp, 
that  those  who  possessed  it  acquired  by  degrees  perfections 
both  of  mind  and  person,  which  qualified  them  for  the  high 
fortune  the  right  use  of  it  advanced  them  to. 

When  Aladdin  arrived  at  court,  and  was  introduced  to 
the  sultan,  he  would  have  prostrated  himself  in  the  usual 
manner,  but  the  monarch  prevented  him  by  receiving  him 
in  his  arms  and  embracing  him.  They  conversed  together 
a  long  time,  and  the  sultan  was  charmed  with  the  wit  and 
good  sense  of  his  intended  son-indaw.  The  judge  pre- 
sented the  contract,  and  the  sultan  asked  Aladdin  if  he 
chose  to  stay  in  the  palace  and  solemnize  the  marriage 
immediately. 

Aladdin  with  great  gratitude  declined  the  sultan's  offer. 
"I  would  wish  first,"  said  he,  "to  build  a  palace  fit  for  the 
receptior  <f  the  (harming  princess,  and  humbly  beg  youi 


128  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

majesty  will  grant  me  a  piece  of  ground  near  your  own, 
that  I  may  the  readier  pay  my  duty  to  you."  The  sultan 
bid  him  take  what  ground  he  pleased,  but  desired  him  to 
consider  how  long  it  must  be  before  he  could  complete  a 
new  palace ;  and  all  that  time  he  should  be  without  the 
pleasure  of  calling  him  son. 

When  Aladdin  returned  home,  he  summoned  the  genie 
in  the  usual  manner.  "  Genie,"  said  he,  "  £he  punctuality 
and  diligence  with  which  you  have  executed  my  orders, 
deserve  every  acknowledgment.  I  have  now  a  commis- 
sion of  still  greater  importance  for  you  to  perform.  I 
wish  you  to  build  me  a  palace  opposite  the  sultan's,  fit  to 
receive  the  princess.  Let  the  materials  be  the  most  rare 
and  costly;  let  there  be  a  large  hall  in  it  with  a  dome  at 
the  top,  and  four-and-twenty  windows.  Decorate  these 
windows  with  jewels  of  all  desertions  the  most  valuable 
you  can  procure,  but  leave  one  of  them  plain.  Instead 
of  wainscot,  let  the  walls  of  the  hall  be  formed  of  massy 
wedges  of  polished  gold  and  silver  laid  alternately.  Let 
the  offices  be  perfectly  complete,  and  the  whole  supplied 
with  the  most  sumptuous  furniture,  and  with  a  proper 
number  of  handsome  slaves  to  perform  the  necessary 
duties.  Do  all  this,  I  charge  thee  by  the  lamp,  in  the 
most  perfect  manner,  and  with  all  possible  dispatch." 

By  the  time  Aladdin  had  finished  his  instructions  to  the 
genie,  the  sun  was  set.  The  next  morning  at  daybreak, 
the  genie  presented  himself  and  said,  "  Sir,  your  palace  is 
finished ;  come  and  see  how  you  like  it."  Aladdin  con- 
senting, he  transported  him  thither,  and  led  him  through 
the  various  apartments,  where  he  found  his  orders  punc- 
tually obeyed.  The  treasury  was  filled  to  the  ceiling  with 
bags  of  money,  the  palace  with  the  most  costly  furniture, 
and  the  stables  with  the  finest  horses  in  the  world.  When 
Aladdin  had  reviewed  the  whole,  he  gave  it  the  praise  it 
deserved.  He  then  ordered  the  genie  to  spread  a  piece 
of  fine  velvet  from  the  sultan's  palace  to  his  own,  for  the 
princess  to  walk  on,  which  being  executed,  the  genie  con- 
ducted Aladdin  back  to  his  own  apartment. 

As  the  morning  advanced,  the  grand  vizier  was  aston- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  128 

ished  at  the  sight  of  so  magnificent  a  building  erected  on 
a  plain  which  was  quite  open  the  night  before.  He  ran 
to  acquaint  the  sultan  with  it,  declaring  it  could  be  only 
enchantment.  "  Vizier,"  replied  the  sultan,  "  it  is  envy- 
makes  you  say  so.  You  know  it  is  Aladdin's  palace.  No 
doubt  he  has  been  long  engaged  in  preparing  it,  and  now 
has  put  it  together  by  employing  a  vast  number  of  people, 
and  paying  them  well,  on  purpose  to  surprise  us.  You 
must  believe  his  riches  are  inexhaustible;  and  he  thus 
shows  us  what  can  be  done  by  money." 

Aladdin  now  sent  a  message  to  the  sultan,  desiring  his 
permission  to  wait  on  him  and  the  princess,  and  that  the 
nuptials  might  be  solemnized  that  day.  The  sultan  con- 
senting, Aladdin  bid  adieu  forever  to  his  parental  dwell- 
ing. He  first  disposed  his  mother  to  go  to  the  palace  with 
her  slaves  to  attend  the  princess ;  he  then  secured  his  won- 
derful lamp,  and  mounting  his  horse,  attended  by  a  numer- 
ous and  splendid  retinue,  he  arrived  at  the  palace. 

The  marriage  ceremonies  were  performed,  and  in  the 
evening  Aladdin  went  first  to  his  own  palace,  that  he 
might  be  ready  to  receive  the  princess;  who,  having 
taken  a  tender  farewell  of  her  parents,  set  forward  on  the 
velvet,  amidst  the  sound  of  trumpets  and  the  shouts  of 
the  people.  Aladdin  received  her  with  transport,  and 
conducted  her  into  the  grand  hall,  which  was  superbly 
illuminated.  The  princess  being  seated,  a  noble  feast  was 
served  up.  The  plates  and  dishes  were  all  of  burnished 
gold,  and  contained  the  most  delicious  meats ;  the  vessels 
on  the  beaufet  were  also  of  gold;  and  all  the  other  fur- 
niture in  the  hall  was  suitably  magnificent.  The  princess, 
though  used  to  the  splendor  of  a  court  from  her  infancy, 
was  yet  much  struck  with  the  magnificence  of  her  new 
habitation,  and  expressed  her  pleasure  to  Aladdin  in  the 
strongest  terms. 

After  supper  there  was  a  concert  of  music  by  genii  and 
fairies,  and  a  dance  by  the  same  kind  of  performers,  who 
performed  after  the  fashion  of  the  country,  in  figure,  with 
great  grace  and  activity. 

The  f'ay  following,  the  royal  parents  came  to  Aladdin's 


130  ARABIAN    NIGIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

palace  to  congratulate  the  princess;  she  received  them 
with  cheerful  duty,  and  conducted  them  to  the  hall.  They 
were  astonished  at  such  a  display  of  riches  and  elegance , 
but  the  sultan  seeing  one  of  the  windows  without  orna- 
ment, inquired  the  reason  of  it.  "  Sir,"  replied  the  prince, 
for  so  Aladdin  was  now  called,  "  I  ordered  the  window  to 
be  left  in  that  state,  that  your  majesty  might  have  the 
glory  of  finishing  this  hall  and  palace." 

The  sultan  accepted  the  compliment,  and  ordered  his 
jewellers  and  goldsmiths  to  set  ahout  it.  For  a  whole 
month  they  were  busily  employed,  and  had  used  all  the 
sultan's  jewels,  notwithstanding  the  large  supply  he  had 
received  from  Aladdin,  yet  they  had  not  finished  one  side 
of  the  window^.  When  Aladdin  found  they  were  quite  at 
a  stand,  he  ordered  them  to  undo  their  work,  and  restore 
the  jewels  to  the  sultan.  He  then  rubbed  his  lamp,  and 
directed  the  genie  to  complete  the  hall,  which  was  done 
immediately. 

The  sultan,  when  the  workmen^returned  him  the  jewels, 
came  to  expostulate  with  his  son-in-law  on  his  leaving  so 
noble  a  hall  unfinished  ;  but  when  Aladdin  conducted  him 
into  it,  he  found  the  windows  were  all  perfect.  Turning 
to  Aladdin,  he  embraced  him,  saying,  "You  are  a  most 
extraordinary  man,  to  do  such  surprising  things  thus  in 
an  instant ;  the  more  I  know  you,  the  more  I  admire  you." 

From  this  time  Aladdin  lived  in  great  state.  He  was 
also  happy  in  the  affection  of  the  princess,  the  confidence 
of  the  sultan,  and  the  general  love  of  the  people.  He 
supported  the  dignity  of  his  rank  with  propriety;  his 
abilities  appeared  more  and  more  respectable.  On  a  dan- 
gerous insurrection,  the  sultan  gave  him  the  command  of  his 
armies,  and  he  was  found  worthy  the  trust,  defeating  the 
rebels  in  two  pitched  battles,  in  which  he  displayed  great 
courage  and  military  conduct. 

But  no  situation  in  human  life  is  exempt  from  misfor* 
tune.  Several  years  after  these  events,  the  African  magi- 
cian who  had  undesignedly  been  the  instrument  of  Alad- 
din'* good  fortune,  chanced  to  recollect  him,  and  resolved 
to  know  if  he  had  perished  in  the  cave.     He  cast  figures, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8.  131 

and  formed  a  horoscope,  by  which  he  found  that  Aladdin 
had  escaped,  lived  splendidly,  was  rich,  had  married  a 
princess,  and  was  very  much  honored  and  respected. 

The  natural  malignity  of  the  magician  became  tenfold 
on  this  discovery.  lie  burst  out  in  a  rage,  saying,  "  Has 
this  wretched  tailor's  son  discovered  the  virtue  of  the 
lamp?  does  he  whom  I  despised  and  devoted  to  death 
enjoy  the  fruit  of  mylabor  and  study?  He  shall  not  long 
do  so."  He  immediately  prepared  for  a  journey  ,  and  set- 
ting off  next  day,  travelled  till  he  arrived  again  at  the 
capital  of  China. 

He  put  up  at  one  of  the  principal  khans,  and  mingled 
with  people  of  the  better  sort,  among  whom  he  soon  heard 
much  talk  of  Aladdin's  palace ;  for  though  it  had  been 
built  some  years,  it  still  continued  an  object  of  admiration 
among  the  citizens.  One  of  the  company,  perceiving  the 
magician  was  a  stranger  and  listened  to  them  with  par- 
ticular attention,  courteously  offered  to  show  him  those 
parts  of  it  where  the  public  were  admitted.  The  magi- 
cian accepted  his  civility;  and  presently  was  convinced 
that  it  was  built  by  the  genii,  slaves  to  the  lamp,  as  it  was 
evidently  out  of  the  power  of  man  to  produce  so  rich  and 
glorious  an  edifice. 

The  magician  heard  that  Aladdin  was  gone  on  a  hunt- 
ing-party, which  would  last  several  days.  As  soon  as  he 
got  back  to  the  khan,  he  had  recourse  to  his  art  to  know 
whether  Aladdin  carried  his  lamp  about  him.  He  had 
the  unhoped-for  pleasure  to  learn  that  the  lamp  was  left 
in  the  palace,  under  no  particular  charge.  He  placed, 
therefore,  a  dozen  handsome  copper  lamps  in  a  basket, 
and  went  to  the  palace  of  Aladdin,  crying  out,  "  Who  will 
change  old  lamps  for  new?" 

Several  people  accepted  his  offer,  and  this  drew  a  crowd 
of  boys  and  idle  people  about  him.  The  noise  they  made 
attracted  the  notice  of  the  princess;  she  sent  a  femalo 
slave  to  inquire  the  cause.  On  her  report,  another  of  the 
princess's  women  said,  "  Let  us  try  if  this  man  is  as  silly 
as  he  protends  to  be.  I  remember  to  have  seen  an^old 
copper  lamp   on  a  cornice ;  the  owner  no  doubt  will   bo 


132  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

glad  to  find  a.  new  one  in  its  place."  Badroulboudc  ur 
consented ;  the  exchange  was  soon  made ,  and  the  magi- 
cian having  obtained  the  prize  he  sought,  returned  with 
it,  rejoicing,  to  his  khan. 

In  the  evening  he  went  into  the  fields,  and  reposed  him- 
self till  midnight.  He  then  rubbed  the  lamp,  when  the 
genie  appeared,  and  said,  "What  wouldst  thou?  I  am 
ready  to  obey  thee  as  thy  slave ;  the  slave  of  all  those 
who  have  that  lamp  in  their  hands  ;  I,  and  the  other  slaves 
of  the  lamp."  "  I  command  thee,"  replied  the  magician, 
"to  transport  me  and  the  palace  which  thou  hast  built  in 
this  city,  and  all  who  are  in  it,  to  such  a  place  in  Africa." 
The  genie  and  his  associates  immediately  obeyed  him. 

The  sultan  was  so  delighted  with  Aladdin's  palace,  that 
he  used  to  look  out  of  his  closet  every  morning  to  admire 
it.  The  morning  after  this  removal  he  was  astonished  to 
see  only  a  void  space  where  the  palace  had  stood  the  even- 
ing before.  On  consulting  his  grand  vizier,  that  minister 
replied,  "  I  am  exceedingly  sorry,  sir,  that  this  event  too 
fully  proves  the  truth  of  my  opinion.  Your  majesty 
knows  I  have  always  thought  this  palace,  and  all  its  im- 
mense riches,  were  the  work  of  magic  only;  and  I  now 
fear,  with  too  much  reason,  that  those  powers  who  were 
capable,  in  one  night,  of  producing  so  much  treasure  and 
magnificence,  have  with  equal  facility  taken  them  away 
again." 

These  remarks  of  the  vizier  kindled  the  sultan's  rage 
against  Aladdin.  "  Where  is  that  impostor,  that  vile 
wretch  ?"  exclaimed  the  sultan.  "Bring  him  before  me, 
and  let  his  head  pay  the  price  of  his  wicked  delusions." 

The  vizier  dispatched  an  officer,  properly  instructed, 
with  a  small  party  of  horse,  in  search  of  Aladdin  ;  when 
they  came  up  with  him,  the  officer  told  him  that  the  sultan 
required  his  presence  on  particular  business.  Aladdin,  who 
had  not  the  least  idea  of  his  having  incurred  the  displeas- 
ure of  his  father-in-law,  took  leave  of  his  train,  whom  he 
loft  to  pursue  their  sport,  and  joining  their  party,  rede 
toward  the  cit}T. 

\V*hen  they  drew  near  it,  the  officer  addressing   limself 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  133 

to  the  prince,  said,  "  It  is  with  great  regret,  sir,  that  I 
declare  to  you  the  commands  of  the  sultan,  which  are, 
that  I  am  to  arrest  you,  and  carry  you  before  him  as  a 
criminal,  in  the  most  ignominious  manner."  Accordingly 
a  chain  was  put  about  his  neck,  and  fastened  round  his 
body,  so  that  his  arms  were  pinioned.  One  of  the  troopers 
took  hold  of  the  end  of  the  chain,  and  Aladdin  was  obliged 
to  follow  him  on  foot  through  the  city  to  the  sultan's 
palace. 

Aladdin  submitted  with  astonishment  to  this  severe 
treatment.  The  officer  could  not  tell  him  the  reason  of 
it,  nor  could  his  own  imagination  suggest  it.  When  he 
was  brought  into  the  royal  presence,  the  sultan,  without 
deigning  to  speak  to  him,  ordered  the  executioner  to  take 
off  his  head.  Aladdin  was  stripped,  bound,  and  kneeling 
to  receive  the  fatal  stroke,  when  an  accident  happened, 
which  obliged  the  sultan  reluctantly  to  suspend  his  fate. 

The  conducting  Aladdin  through  the  city  with  so  much 
disgrace,  alarmed  and  irritated  the  people,  by  whom  he 
was  universal^7  -beloved.  A  large  mob  followed  the  party 
to  the  palace  ;  and  as  the  news  spread,  the  mob  increased. 
People  of  all  descriptions  joined  them,  and  a  great  disturb- 
ance ensued.  Part  of  the  rioters  were  so  bold  as  to  force 
the  gates,  others  scaled  the  walls  of  the  palace.  The  sul- 
tan was  terrified.  He  ordered  Aladdin  to  be  unbound,  and 
bade  the  chiaoux  proclaim  he  had  pardoned  him.  This 
satisfied  the  people,  who  presently  dispersed. 

"When  Aladdin  was  set  at  liberty,  he  threw  himself  at 
the  sultan's  feet  and  begged  to  know  his  crime.  "  Thy 
crime,  perfidious  wretch!"  replied  the  sultan,  "dost  tbou 
not  know  it?  Follow  me;"  and  leading  him  into  his 
closet,  said,  "Thou  oughtest  to  know  where  thy  palace 
stood  ;  look,  and  tell  me  what  has  become  of  it." 

Aladdin  seeing  his  palace  was  removed,  was  over 
whelmed  with  grief  and  despair.  The  sultan,  instead  of 
being  softened  by  his  distress,  became  more  and  more 
incensed.  "  Caitiff,"  said  he,  "  produce  my  daughter, 
whom  I  value  a  thousand  times  beyond  thy  palace,  or  no 
consideration  shall  restrain  me  from  putting  theo  to  death.'' 
12 


134  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

"  I  beseech  your  majesty,"  replied  Aladdin,  "  to  give  me 
forty  days  to  search  for  my  dear  princess;  if  at  the  end 
of  that  time  I  am  unsuccessful,  I  do  solemnly  swear  I  will 
return,  and  deliver  myself  into  your  hands."  "  Begone, 
then,"  answered  the  sultan  ;  "  but  know,  that  if  you  break 
this  oath,  you  shall  not  escape  my  resentment.  My  rage 
shall  pursue  you,  if  you  do  not  produce  my  daughter,  in 
whatever  part  of  the  world  you  may  vainly  attempt  to 
hide  yourself." 

Aladdin  left  the  sultan,  covered  with  confusion.  As  he 
went  out  of  the  palace,  he  experienced,  the  vanity  of  that 
adulation  which  is  usually  offered  to  persons  in  prosperity. 
Among  the  officers  of  the  court,  some  pitied,  some  insulted 
him;  but  no  one  offered  him  comfort  or  assistance.  He 
passed  on  to  the  city,  about  which  he  rambled  for  three 
days.  His  senses  became  disturbed ;  and  he  asked  every 
one  he  met,  if  he  could  tell  him  any  news  of  his  palace. 

Tired  at  last  of  wandering  about  the  streets,  he  strolled 
into  the  country;  and  coming  to  the  side  of  a  river,  as  ho 
was  indulging  his  grief,  and  pensively  watching  the  undu- 
lation of  the  water,  the  ground  he  stood  on  gave  way,  and 
he  would  have  fallen  into  the  river,  if  he  had  not  caught 
hold  of  a  rock  which  supported  him.  In  recovering  him- 
self, he  pressed  the  ring  he  had  formerly  received  from 
the  African  magician,  very  hard.  The  genie  immediately 
appeared  and  made  him  the  usual  offer  of  his  services. 

Aladdin  recovering  at  once  from  his  despair,  cried  out, 
"  0  genie,  preserve  my  life  a  second  time,  by  bringing 
back  my  palace  to  the  place  where  it  stood." 

"That  I  cannot  do,"  replied  the  genie;  "you  must  ad- 
dress yourself  to  the  slave  of  the  lamp."  'At  least,"  said 
Aladdin,  "  convey  me  to  the  place  where  it  stands,  and  set 
me  down  under  the  princess  Badroulboudour's  window." 
These  words  were  no  sooner  uttered,  than  the  genie  trans- 
ported him  to  Africa,  and  set  him  down  as  he  had  desired. 

It  was  night  when  Aladdin  found  himself  under  the 
window  of  the  princess.  As  he  knew  not  who  might  be 
within,  he  determined  not  to  enter  it  till  morning.  Ho 
eat  dow  n  at  the  root  of  a  large  tree,  and  began  to  consider 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  135 

within  himself  whence  his  misfortunes  proceeded.  He 
recollected  how  carelessly  he  had  left  his  inestimable  lamp, 
and  doubted  not  but  that  carelessness  was  the  source  of 
all  his  sorrows.  But  how  it  should  fall  into  the  £ands  of 
any  one  who  knew  its  use,  was  wonderful;  and  still  more 
so,  that  the  present  possessor  should  have  so  much  ill-will 
to  him,  as  to  remove  the  princess  and  her  palace. 

Amidst  these  contemplations,  the  fatigue  and  grief  ho 
had  sustained  overcame  him,  and  he  fell  asleep  ;  but  waking 
very  early  in  the  morning,  he  had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing 
the  princess  at  her  window ;  for  from  the  time  of  her 
removal  sorrow  had  driven  sleep  from  her  eyelids.  Bad- 
roulboudour  soon  perceived  him.  She  durst  not  converse 
with  him  from  her  window ;  but  made  signs  to  him,  that 
he  should  repair  to  the  back  door,  where  a  trusty  slave 
attended  to  admit  him,  and  to  conduct  him  to  his  be- 
loved princess. 

When  the  joy  of  their  meeting  had  a  little  subsided, 
Badroulboudour  soon  explained  to  him  the  source  of  their 
misfortune,  by  telling  him  they  were  in  Africa.  She  re- 
lated to  him  the  manner  in  which  the  magician  had  ob- 
tained the  lamp,  which  he  now  constantly  carried  in  his 
bosom ;  and  added,  that  he  every  day  paid  her  one  visit, 
and  audaciously  presumed  to  solicit  her  love ;  assuring  her, 
that  her  husband  had  fallen  a  victim  to  the  sultan's  anger. 

Aladdin  having  heard  all  these  particulars,  besought 
the  princess  to  permit  him  to  go  to  a  neighboring  town. 
"  This  man,"  said  he,  "  in  whose  power  we  now  are,  is  the 
most  subtle,  and  the  most  wicked  of  mankind.  Yet  as  he 
can  have  no  idea  that  I  am  at  hand,  I  think  we  shall  be 
able  to  evade  his  malice.  "When  he  comes  to  you  to-day," 
continued  Aladdin,  "receive  him  with  less  reseiwe  than 
usual ;  seem  as  if  you  would  shortly  be  reconciled  to  your 
situation  ;  invite  him  to  sup  with  you,  and  leave  the  rest 
to  me." 

Aladdin  then  went  into  the  town,  and  bought  of  a  drug- 
gist half  a  drachm  of  a  certain  powder,  with  which  he  re- 
turned to  the  palace.  This  he  gave  to  the  princess,  with 
instructions  how  to  use  it;  and  then  retired  to  a  closet,  lest 


\36  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

he  sliould  be  discovered.  The  magician  paid  his  usual 
visit  to  the  princess,  in  the  course  of  the  day,  and  was 
glad  to  find  her  in  much  better  spirits  than  before.  She 
had  now,  for  the  first  time  since  in  his  power,  dressed  her- 
self elegantly;  she  conversed  with  him  with  freedom; 
and  even  heard  him  talk  of  love,  without  showing  much 
disgust.  When  he  was  about  to  depart,  she  pretended  a 
desire  to  taste  the  wines  of  Africa,  and  desired  he  would 
provide  her  some  of  the  best,  and  come  and  sup  with  her. 

The  wily  African,  with  all  his  cunning,  allowed  himself 
to  be  deceived.  His  nature  was  not  capable  of  generous 
love.  The  incomparable  beauty  of  the  princess  had,  in- 
deed, excited  in  him  a  coarse  and  beastly  desire,  which  he 
hoped  now  to  gratify;  and  while  he  thought  himself  secure 
of  his  expected  enjoyment,  he  laughed  at  and  reviled  in 
his  heart  the  versatility  of  the  sex,  to  which  he  ascribed 
his  success. 

In  the  evening-  he  did  not  fail  to  attend  the  princess, 
who  received  him  in  the  most  flattering  manner.  After 
supper,  when  the  wine  was  set  before  them,  the  princess 
gave  an  appointed  signal  to  her  attendant.  A  gold  cup 
was  presented  to  the  magician,  and  another  to  the  prin- 
cess. In  her  cup  was  the  powder  procured  by  Aladdin. 
Wine  being  poured  out,  the  princess  told  the  magician, 
that  in  China  it  was  the  custom  for  lovers  to  exchange 
cups,  and  at  the  same  time  held  out  her  cup  to  him.  He 
eagerly  made  the  exchange ;  and  putting  the  cup  he  had 
received  from  her  to  his  lips,  he  drank  a  little  of  the  wine, 
and  immediately  expired. 

When  the  magician  fell  down,  Aladdin,  who  had  watched 
the  event,  entered  the  hall;  and  running  to  the  body, 
found  the  lamp  carefully  wrapped  up  in  his  bosom.  He 
retired  again  to  the  closet,  and  summoning  the  genie, 
commanded  him  to  restore  the  palace  to  its  former  situa- 
tion ;  which  he  did  accordingly,  those  within  it  only  feel- 
ing two  slight  shocks,  one  when  it  was  lifted  up,  the 
other  when  it  was  set  down,  and  both  in  a  short  interval 
of  time. 

The  sultan  had  continued  inconsolable  for  the  loss  of  big 


ARABIAN   NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  137 

daughter.  As  it  had  been  his  custom  formerly  t:  go  often 
into  his  closet  to  admire  Aladdin's  palace,  he  nDw  did  so 
for  very  different  reasons.  Every  morning,  and  often  in 
the  daytime,  he  retired  there,  to  indulge  his  sorrow  for 
the  loss  of  his  beloved  daughter.  The  morning  after  the 
return  of  the  palace,  the  sultan  entered  his  closet,  unusu- 
ally sad;  when  going  to  the  window,  he  had  the  joyful 
surprise  to  see  it  again  in  its  place.  He  flew  thither,  and 
emoraced  bis  daughter  with  tears  of  joy;  nor  was  she  less 
affected. 

When  their  transports  were  a  little  abated,  the  princess 
related  to  her  fatber  everything  that  had  befallen  her. 
She  took  upon  herself  the  whole  blame  of  changing  the 
lamp,  and  magnified  the  merit  of  her  husband  in  having 
so  soon  found  her  out  and  delivering  her.  The  sultan 
embraced  Aladdin,  and  they  forgave  each  other.  The  dead 
body  of  the  magician  was  thrown  upon  a  dunghill;  and 
the  whole  city  rejoiced  at  the  safe  return  of  Aladdin  and 
the  princess. 

The  happiness  of  Aladdin  was  not  yet  secured.  Though 
the  magician  was  dead,  he  had  left  a  brother  as  wicked, 
and  as  powerful  as  himself.  It  was  the  custom  of  these 
brethren  to  inform  themselves  by  their  art,  once  a  year, 
where  each  other  was,  and  whether  either  of  them  stood 
in  need  of  the  other's  assistance. 

When  the  customary  period  arrived,  all  the  particulars 
of  the  African  magician's  death  became  known  to  his 
brother,  by  his  skill  in  necromancy.  On  finding  such  a 
fatal  account,  be  pursued  his  art,  till  by  it  he  became  ac- 
quainted with  his  brother's  intercourse  with  Aladdin,  and 
with  Aladdin's  present  situation.  Having  learned  all 
these  things,  instead  of  indulging  a  fruitless  grief,  he  set 
out  for  the  capital  of  China,  to  gratify  his  revenge. 

He  crossed  plains,  rivers,  mountains,  deserts,  and  seas, 
with  incredible  fatigue,  till  he  arrived  there  safely.  After 
a  short  repose,  he  went  continually  to  places  of  public  re- 
sort, to  acquaint  himself  with  the  customs  of  the  people, 
and  Aladdin's  mode  of  living;  intending  to  form  thenco  a 
plan  to  destroy  him . 
12* 


138  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Among  other  things  he  often  heard  of  one  Fatima,  a 
holj  woman,  who  resided  in  a  hermitage  neai  the  city, 
and  used  now  and  then  to  come  to  it.  Her  piety  was 
everywhere  spoken  of.  They  even  declared  that  she  had 
the  power  of  working  miracles ;  and  particularly  that  she 
never  failed  to  cure  any  person  who  had  the  headache,  hy 
putting  her  hand  on  them. 

From  all  this,  the  magician  formed  a  plot  which  he  put 
in  execution  in  this  manner:  —  He  found  out  the  cell  of 
the  holy  woman,  and  went  to  her  under  pretence  of  being 
much  afflicted  with  the  headache.  By  this  means  he  had 
an  opportunity  of  observing  her  appearance  and  manner 
of  conversation.  He  returned  to  the  city,  and  passed  the 
evening  in  one  of  those  houses  where  they  sell  hot  liquors, 
and  where  any  person  may  stay  all  night  if  he  chooses. 
About  midnight  he  set  out  again  for  Fatima's  cell.  The 
holy  woman  was  fast  asleep  in  her  clothes,  on  a  mattress. 
He  awakened  her,  and  clapping  a  dagger  to  her  breast, 
bade  her  get  up  and  be  silent. 

Fatima  was  much  frightened,  but  thought  it  best  to 
obe}^  him.  He  then  ordered  her  to  change  clothes  with  him. 
This  done,  he  took  out  a  vessel  holding  a  certain  liquor, 
and  a  brush,  and  commanded  Fatima  to  color  his  face  that 
it  might  resemble  hers;  but  perceiving  the  poor  creature 
trembled  so  much  that  she  was  unable  to  obey  him,  he 
encouraged  her,  and  swore  to  her  by  the  name  of  God 
that  he  would  not  hurt  her.  Comforted  by  this  assurance, 
she  painted  his  face,  put  on  him  her  coif  and  beads,  and  giv- 
ing him  her  stick,  she  showed  him  how  he  ought  to  walk  to 
appear  like  her.  Being  thus  completely  able  to  pass  for 
Fatima,  he,  without  the  least  regard  to  his  oath,  strangled 
her,  and  threw  her  into  a  cistern. 

In  the  morning  he  returned  to  the  city,  where  he  imi- 
tated the  holy  woman  so  well  that  every  one  believed  it 
was  she,  and  crowded  for  her  benediction.  He  went  di- 
rectly toward  Aladdin's  palace,  and  the  multitude  attend- 
ing him  being  noticed  by  the  princess,  she  inquired  the 
cause  of  it.  Badroulboudour  had  often  heard  of  the  holy 
woman,  but  had  never  seen  her.     She  sent  therefore  tu 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   E  VTERTAINYIENTS.  139 

desire  to  speak  with  her.  The  magician  was  overjoyed. 
He  counterfeited  Fatima  with  great  exactness ;  and  when 
introduced,  by  affecting  great  piety  and  mortification,  by 
a  long  prayer,  and  many  vows  for  her  prosperity,  the 
detestable  hypocrite  gained  the  esteem,  of  tbe  credulous 
princess,  who  was  too  good  herself  to  distrust  others. 

•After  a  long  conversation,  the  magician  artfully  dropped 
a  hint  at  the  splendor  of  the  palace.  The  princess,  think- 
ing the  sight  of  the  magnificent  hall  must  give  pleasure 
even  to  an  anchorite,  conducted  the  false  Fatima  thither, 
and  asked  her  how  she  liked  that  building.  "I  am  not," 
replied  the  magician,  "a  judge  of  these,  fine  things;  but 
I  think  if  a  roc's  egg  was  hung  up  in  the  midst  of  the 
dome,  the  whole  would'be  complete.  There  is  one  on  the 
top  of  Mount  Caucasus;  and  the  architect  who  built  your 
palace  can  procure  it  for  you." 

This  conversation  the  princess  paid  much  attention  to. 
She  had  ever  considered  that  hall  as  the  grandest  and 
most  elegant  building  in  the  world  ;  and  she  could  not 
bear  it  should  want  anything  to  make  it  absolutely  per- 
fect. She  led  the  supposed  holy  woman  into  another 
apartment,  and  requested  her  to  continue  with  her  the 
remainder  of  the  day;  to  which,  with  apparent  reluc- 
tance, but  with  real  joy,  the  deceiver  consented. 

When  Aladdin  returned  from  council,  the  princess  met 
him,  and  desired  he  would  have  a  roc's  egg  hung  up  in 
the  dome  of  the  hall,  telling  him  at  the  same  time  where 
there  was  one.  Aladdin,  who  was  always  desirous  of 
pleasing  the  princess,  went  immediately  to  the  hall,  and 
summoning  the  genie,  said,  "  There  is  a  roc's  egg  on  Mount 
Caucasus,  which  I  would  have  thee  bring,  and  hang  up 
in  this  dome."  These  words  were  no  sooner  uttered,  than 
the  genie  set  up  a  fearful  cry,  after  which  he  said  to  Alad- 
din, "  Wretch  !  is  it  not  enough  that  I  and  my  companions 
have  done  so  much  for  thee,  but  thou  must  command  me 
to  bring  my  master,  and  hang  him  up  in  thy  hall?  It  is 
well  for  thee  that  thou  art  not  the  author  of  this  ungrate- 
ful request.  Know,  then,  that  the  deviser  of  it  is  the 
brother  of  the  African  magician.     He  has  murdered  Fa- 


140  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

tima,  and  is  now  with  thy  wife,  disguised  to  resen  ble  that 
holy  woman.  It  was  he  who  suggested  this  demand  to  the 
princess,  by  which  he  hoped  to  have  involved  you  both  in 
ruin.  He  will  now  endeavor  to  kill  thee ;  look  therefore  to 
thyself."  After  these  words,  the  genie,  snatching  the  lamp 
from  Aladdin's  hand,  disappeared. 

As  soon  as  Aladdin  had  recovered  from  his  surprise,  he 
determined  at  once  what  measures  to  pursue.  He  went 
into  the  chamber  where  the  princess  and  the  magician 
were  conversing  together,  and  pretended  to  have  the  head- 
ache, desiring  the  false  Fatima  to  cure  it.  The  magician, 
overjoyed,  approached  with  a  dagger  in'  one  hand  con- 
cealed under  his  clothes ;  as  he  drew  near,  Aladdin  seized 
him  by  that  arm,  and  in  an  instant,  with  his  own  dagger, 
put  an  end  to  his  pernicious  life. 

Though  Aladdin  was  much  grieved  for  the  loss  of  his 
lamp,  yet  he  consoled  himself,  as  by  the  death  of  the  ma- 
gician his  peace  was  secured.  He  succeeded  some  years 
afterward  to  the  throne  of  China,  on  which  he  reigned 
with  his  princess  to  a  good  old  age,  and  left  behind  him  a 
numerous  posterity. 

THE    STORY   OP    LITTLE   HUNCHBACK. 

At  Casgar,  on  the  borders  of  Tartary,  there  lived  a 
tailor,  a  cheerful,  hospitable  fellow,  who  had  a  very  de- 
serving wife  that  he  was  fond  of.  One  evening,  as  he  was 
leaving  off  work,  a  little  deformed  man  sat  down  near  his 
shop,  and  taking  out  a  lute,  played  and  sung  very  melodi- 
ously. The  tailor  was.  much  pleased  with  his  perform- 
ance, and  thinking  to  amuse  his  wife,  he  took  Hunchback 
home  to  sup  with  him.  Their  supper  consisted  of  a  large 
dish  of  fish.  Unluckily,  the  crooked  gentleman  swallowed 
a  bone,  of  which  he  died  in  a  few  minutes,  notwithstand- 
ing his  hosts  gave  him  every  assistance  in  their  power. 

The  tailor  and  his  wife  were  exceedingly  frightened  at 
this  accident ;  and  dreading  the  consequences  of  the  body 
being  found  in  their  apartment,  they  conveyed  it  to  the 
house  of  a  Jewish  doctor,  who  lived  not  far  off.  The  tailor 
supported  the  body,  as  if  it  was  a  sick  man,  and  his  wifa 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  141 

gave  the  doctor's  servant  a  piece  of  gold,  and  desired  he 
would  come  to  them  immediately.  The  maid  went  up  to 
her  master,  and  the  tailor  and  his  wife  nimbl}T  following 
her,  harried  the  body  to  the  top  of  the  stairs,  and  leaning  it 
against  the  wainscot,  hastened  away  as  quickly  as  possible. 

The  doctor,  notwithstanding  his  skill,  was  exceedingly 
poor.  The  piece  of  gold  he  received,  gave  him  a  good 
opinion  of  his  patient.  He  ordered  his  servant  to  follow 
with  the  light,  and  running  to  the  stairs,  he  knocked  the 
body  down  to  the  bottom  of  them.  When  the  light  came, 
the  Jew,  finding  the  corpse  warm,  made  no  question  but 
that  the  sick  man  had  expired  in  consequence  of  the  fall. 
He  gave  himself  up  to  despair;  but  his  wife,  more  fertile 
in  invention,  contrived  the  means  of  avoiding  the  danger. 
She  advised  the  Jew  to  take  Hunchback  to  the  top  of  the 
house,  and  by  means  of  ropes  to  lower  him  down  a  neigh- 
boring chimney. 

The  apartment  into  which  little  Hunchback  was  now 
conveyed  belonged  to  a  Mussulman,  who  was  purvej^or 
of  provisions  to  the  sultan.  When  he  came  home,  and 
saw  by  the  light  of  his  lantern  a  man  standing  upright  in 
his  chimney,  he  was"  exceedingly  enraged.  The  purveyor 
had  frequently  lost  part  of  his  stores,  and  not  doubting 
but  that  he  had  now  detected  the  thief,  he  resolved  to 
punish  him  severely.  He  caned  therefore  the  supposed 
culprit  very  heartily;  but  as  he  neither  moved  nor  cried 
out,  he  left  off  beating  him,  and  holding  up  the  light,  per- 
ceived that  he  was  dead.  Terror  now  almost  deprived 
the  purveyor  of  his  senses.  He  questioned  not  but  that 
the  man  was  killed  by  his  blows;  and  he  well  knew  the 
punishment  he  must  expect  if  he  was  discovered. 

To  avoid  this,  he  waited  till  an  hour  after  midnight,  and 
when  everything  was  still  in  the  streets,  took  the  body  on 
his  back,  with  many  execrations,  and  conveyed  it  to  the 
door  of  a  shop  a  little  distance  off;  where,  placing  Hunch- 
back on  his  feet,  he  left  him,  and  flew  back  to  his  own 
house,  fortunately  without  meeting  a  person. 

A  few  minutes  before  daybreak,  a  Christian  merchant 
who  had  been  up  all  night,  debauching,  passed  by  that 


142  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

way.  Though  he  was  drunk,  he  knew  the  time  drew  new 
when  people  are  called  to  early  prayers,  and  that  he  was 
liable  to  punishment  for  being  found  in  the  street  in  that 
condition.  Seeing  the  patrol  approaching,  he  sought  to 
conceal  himself  by  standing  up  close  to  the  same  shop- 
door  where  the  purveyor  had  left  Hunchback.  The  body 
being  jostled  by  the  merchant,  tumbled  upon  him;  and 
the  Christian  supposing  it  was  a  thief,  threw  him  down, 
fell  upon  him,  and  continued  beating  him,  crying  out, 
"Thieves!" 

The  outcry  alarmed  the  watch,  who  came  up  immedi- 
ately, and  finding  a  Christian  beating  a  Mussulman,  de- 
manded the  meaning  of  such  an  outrage.  "He  would 
have  robbed  me,"  replied  the  merchant,  "  and  jumped 
upon  me,  with  intent  to  take  me  by  the  throat."  "You 
seem,"  said  the  officer,  "  to  have  sufficiently  revenged 
yourself;  come,  get  off  him," —  at  the  same  time  stooping 
to  raise  Hunchback,  he  found  that  he  was  dead.  "Ah!" 
exclaimed  he,  "is  it  thus  that  a  Christian  dares  to  assassi- 
nate a  Turk?"  Saying  this,  he  seized  the  merchant  and 
(/ragged  him  to  prison,  till  the  judge  was  ready  to  exam- 
'ne  him. 

A  sense  of  his  danger  soon  dissipated  the  fumes  of  the 
liquor;  but  the  more  the  Christian  was  capable  of  thought, 
the  less  he  could  account  how  the  few  blows  he  had  struck 
could  have  been  fatal,  or  contrive  how  he  should  excuse 
himself  to  the  magistrate,  after  having  accused  the  defunct 
with  attempting  to  rob  him.  In  the  morning  the  judge 
beard  the  relation  of  the  patrol,  and  as  the  deceased  was 
one  of  the  royal  buffoons,  he  thought  it  his  duty  to  report 
the  matter  to  the  sultan.  That  prince,  enraged  at  the 
death  of  his  jester,  and  at  the  boldness  of  the  Christian 
m  killing  a  Turk,  ordered  him  to  be  instantly  hanged. 

The  merchant  was  led  out  accordingly,  tied  to  the 
gibbet,  and  notwithstanding  his  outcries  and  protesta- 
tions of  innocence,  was  just  about  to  be  put  to  death, 
when  the  purveyor  came  up  to  the  judge  and  owned  him- 
self the  murderer.  While  the  officer  was  considering  what 
measures  to  pursue,  the  Jewish  doctor  arrived,  and  excul- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  143 

pated  the  purveyor;  and  presently  after,  the  tailor  took 
the  guilt  from  the  Jew,  by  relating  the  manner  of  Hunch- 
back's dea;h.  The  judge  conveyed  all  the  parties  before 
the  sultan,  who  beard  tbeir  several  accounts  with  amaze- 
ment, and  addressing  bimself  to  the  viziers  and  emirs  of 
his  court,  demanded  if  they  had  ever  heard  of  so  strange 
an  event ;  on  which  the  Christian  merchant,  prostrating 
himself,  declared  that  he  could  relate  a  story  still  more 
wonderful.  The  sultan,  desirous  to  hear  it,  directed  him 
to  do  so.     He  obeyed  thus :  — 

THE    STORY   TOLD    BY   THE    CHRISTIAN    MERCHANT. 

I  am  a  stranger  born  at  Cairo,  where,  at  my  father's 
death,  I  succeeded  to  his  business,  as  a  very  considerable 
broker.  One  day,  as  I  was  standing  in  the  public  corn- 
market,  a  young  man,  well  dressed,  came  to  me,  and  pro- 
ducing a  sample  of  sesame  and  Turkey  corn,  desired  me 
to  sell  for  him  a  hundred  and  fifty  bushels  of  it  at  the  best 
price  I  could  get.  I  presently  found  a  purchaser  at  a 
hundred  and  ten  drachms  of  silver  each  bushel.  The 
young  man  was  well  pleased  with  my  bargain,  and  when 
the  corn  was  delivered,  I  would  have  paid  him  the  money, 
but  he  declined  to  take  it  then  and  went  away,  leaving 
the  whole  produce  of  his  corn  in  my  hands. 

I  frequently  saw  him  afterward  and  urged  him  to  re- 
ceive his  money,  but  he  always  evaded  it.  At  last  he 
stayed  away  for  a  whole  year;  and  when  he  came  he  was 
dressed  richer  than  usual,  but  he  was  very  thoughtful.  I 
pressed  him  as  before  to  take  his  money,  and  added  an 
earnest  invitation  for  him  to  enter  my  house  and  dine 
with  me,  which  at  length  he  complied  with. 

At  dinner  I  perceived  my  guest  fed  himself  with  his  left 
hand.  I  could  not  conceive  the  cause  of  his  treating  me 
so  contemptuously.  I  restrained  myself  till  we  had  dined, 
when  presenting  him  with  some  lozenges,  which  he  took 
in  the  same  manner,  I  entreated  him  to  explain  the  mys- 
tery to  me.  i\fter  dropping  a  tear,  he  drew  back  his 
garment,  and  producing  his  right  arm,  I  saw  it  was  with- 
out a  hand.     I   was  so  shocked  at  this  discovery,  that  I 


144  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

sat  in  silence.  The  young  man  having  recovered  from  hie 
confusion,  addressed  himself  to  me  nearly  as  follows:  — 

"The  good  opinion  I  have  formed  of  you,  induces  me  to 
reveal  my  misfortune  to  you,  and  the  cause  of  it. 

"  I  am  a  native  of  Bagdad.  On  the  death  of  my  father, 
who  was  a  considerable  merchant,  I  resolved  to  travel. 
Accordingly  I  packed  up  many  bales  of  rich  stuffs  and 
other  valuable  merchandise,  and  arrived  safely  with  them 
here.  But  when  I  exposed  them  for  sale,  the  merchants 
thinking  to  take  advantage  of  my  youth  and  inexperience, 
did  not  bid  me  the  first  cost.  One  of  the  criers  of  the 
Bezestein  perceiving  how  much  I  was  vexed  at  this  treat- 
ment, advised  me  to  divide  my  goods  among  the  dealers, 
who  would  sell  them  on  my  account  and  settle  with  me 
twice  a  week.  I  followed  this  advice,  which  proved  very 
useful  to  me. 

"  One  morning,  as  I  sat  in  a  dealer's  shop,  a  lady  came 
in  and  sat  down  by  me.  I  was  much  taken  with  her 
graceful  carriage  and  fine  form,  and  gazed  at  her  with 
great  attention.  She  observed  this,  and  under  pretence 
of  adjusting  her  veil,  she  contrived  to  let  me  see  her  face, 
which  was  so  beautiful,  that  she  entirely  completed  the 
conquest  of  my  heart.  She  desired  the  shopkeeper  to 
show  her  some  gold  stuffs,  and  I  was  happy  to  see  her  fix 
on  one  of  mine.  She  agreed  with  him  for  the  price,  but 
not  having  money  enough  in  her  purse  to  pay  for  it,  she 
wished  to  take  it  home,  and  promised  to  return  next  day 
with  the  money.  This  the  dealer  refused.  I  put  an  end 
to  the  dispute,  by  entreating  the  lady  to  accept  the  piece 
of  stuff,  which  she  would  only  do  on  condition  that  I 
would  meet  her  next  day  and  receive  the  money  for  it 
To  this  I  was  forced  to  consent,  and  when  the  lady  with- 
drew she  thanked  me  in  the  most  engaging  manner  for 
my  civility ;  adding,  '  May  God  reward  you  in  enlarging 
your  fortune  !  may  you  live  many  years  when  I  am  dead! 
may  the  gate  of  heaven  be  opened  to  you  when  you  re- 
move to  the  other  world !  and  may  all  the  city  proclaim 
yonv  generosity ! 

"  My  heart  became  at  once   entirely  attached   to  this 


ARABIAN    NIOHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  145 

lovely  woman.  I  returned  home  in  great  agitation  ;  and 
already  began  to  wish  for  the  approach  of  the  next  day 
I  could  neither  eat  nor  sleep  ;  and  after  a  night  which 
seemed  the  longest  I  had  ever  known,  1  dressed  myself 
with  particular  attention,  and  hastened  to  the  shop.  The 
lady  came  and  paid  me  the  money,  after  which  we  entered 
into  conversation.  I  embraced  this  opportunity  of  telling 
her  how  much  I  was  devoted  to  her;  on  which  she  was 
overspread  with  blushes,  and  rising  hastily,  though  with- 
out showing  displeasure,  she  quitted  the  shop. 

"I  durst  not  venture  to  follow  her;  and  having  made 
inquiry  of  the  shopkeeper  who  she  was  to  very  little  pur- 
pose, I  was  returning  home  pensively,  when  I  felt  some 
one  pull  my  sleeve,  and  was  agreeably  surprised  to  see  it 
was  the  lady's  slave.  She  whispered  me  softly  to  follow 
her  at  a  distance,  and  led  me  to  a  handsome  house  where 
I  found  her  mistress.  The  lady  had  thrown  off  the  habit 
usual  in  the  streets,  and  appeared  richly  dressed,  and  so 
charming  that,  if  I  loved  her  before,  I  adored  her  now. 
She  apologized  for  having  left  me  so  abruptly ;  '  I  did 
not  think  fit,'  continued  she,  'to  give  you  a  favorable  an- 
swer in  the  hearing  of  the  shopkeeper,  but  to  deal  frankly 
with  you,  I  think  myself  happy  to  have  a  man  of  so  much 
merit  for  mjT  lover.'  I  threw  myself  at  her  feet,  in  a 
transport  of  joy  at  this  welcome  declaration;  when  the 
lady  raising  me  tenderly,  desired  me  to  enter  an  adjoining 
apartment,  and  partake  of  an  entertainment  she  had  pre- 
pared for  me. 

"  From  this  time  there  commenced  between  us  a  most 
tender  and  intimate  union.  I  passed  all  the  time  1  could 
spare  from  my  serious  concerns  with  Margiana,  (for  so 
was  the  lady  called,)  who  always  received  me  with  joy, 
and  entertained  me  splendidly.  As  I  was  sensible  this 
was  attended  with  great  expense,  I  used  to  leave  regularly 
a  purse  of  gold  on  the  sofa  when  I  came  away.  I  con- 
tinued to  do  so  till  I  had  sold  all  my  goods,  when  I  found 
myself,  all  at  once,  without  money,  or  the  means  of  obtain- 
ing any. 

'  In  this  desperate  condition  I  walked  out  of  my  lodging, 

13  J£ 


146  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and  careless  which  way  I  went,  strolled  by  chance  toward 
the  castle,  where  there  was  a  great  crowd  waiting  to  see 
tfte  sultan.  Among  them  was  a  handsome  cavalier,  well 
mounted,  who  had  upon  the  bow  of  his  saddle  a  bag  half 
open,  with  a  green  silk  string  hanging  out,  which  I  had 
no  doubt  was  the  string  of  a  purse.  A  porter  passing  by 
on  the  other  side  with  a  load  of  wood;  went  so  near  the 
gentleman  as  obliged  him  to  turn  his  head  that  way,  to 
avoid  being  rubbed  by  the  wood.  In  that  minute  did  the 
devil  tempt  me.  I  seized  the  string  and  pulled  out  the  purse 
bo  dexterously,  that  none  of  the  by-standers  perceived  me, 
and  I  had  the  satisfaction  to  feel  that  it  was  very  full  of 
money. 

"But  though  I  had  escaped  the  notice  of  the  crowd 
about  me,  the  owner  of  the  purse  was  more  attentive.  No 
sooner  was  he  disengaged  from  the  porter,  than,  missing 
his  purse,  he  knocked  me  down.  This  violence  shocked 
the  by-standers ;  some  of  whom  seized  his  bridle,  and  de- 
manded how  he  dared  to  treat  a  Mussulman  in  such  a 
manner.  '  I  have  reason  enough,'  replied  he  briskly ;  'this 
fellow  is  a  thief.'  Every  one  took  my  part  still  more, 
saying  it  was  incredible  that  a  young  man  of  my  appear- 
ance should  be  guilty  of  so  base  an  action.  But  while  they 
held  his  horse  to  favor  my  escape,  unfortunately  the  judici- 
ary judge  came  by,  and  seeing  a  crowd,  demanded  the  cause. 

"The  judge  heard  the  charge  against  me;  and  far  from 
suffering  the  opinions  of  the  by-standers  to  bias  him,  he 
ordered  me  to  be  searched ;  when,  to  my  utter  confusion, 
the  purse  was  presently  found  and  exposed  to  the  view  of 
all  the  people.  My  shame  was  so  great  that  I  swooned 
away.  The  judge  restored  the  purse  to  the  owner,  and,  on 
my  recovery,  admonished  me  to  confess  the  truth,  and 
save  myself  from  the  torture.  I  acknowledged  my  guilt; 
and  the  judge  ordered  my  right  hand  to  be  instantly  cut 
off,  which  was  done  accordingly.  He  was  proceeding  to 
direct  my  foot  to  be  cut  off  also  :  but  the  cavalier  inter- 
ceding for  me,  he  permitted  me  to  depart  without  further 
punishment. 

"As  soon  as  the  judge  was  gone,  the  cavalier  presented 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  147 

me  with  the  fatal  purse,  sa}Ting,  'I  see  plainly  it  was  ne- 
cessity put  you  on  an  action  so  unworthy  of  you,  and  I  am 
heartily  sorry  for  your  misfortune.'  One  of  the  people 
observing  I  was  faint  with  the  loss  of  blood,  and  overcome 
with  grief  and  shame,  had  the  charity  to  take  me  into  his 
house,  where  he  caused  my  arm  to  be  dressed,  and  gave 
me  every  proper  refreshment. 

''In  the  evening  I  went  to  Margiana.  I  expected  that 
after  so  infamous  a  transaction  she  would  drive  me  from 
her,  as  utterly  unworthy  her  notice;  but  knowing  it  was 
impossible  to  conceal  the  loss  of  my  hand,  1  determined 
to  meet  at  once  the  utmost  of  my  misery.  On  my  arrival 
I  threw  myself  on  a  sofa,  overspent  with  weakness  and 
sorrow.  Margi ana,  hearing  of  my  arrival,  and  that  I  was 
indisposed,  hastened  to  me,  and  endeavored  to  comfort 
me.  I  answered  her  only  with  sighs  and  tears ;  which  in- 
duced her  to  fill  me  a  large  cup  of  wine  and  entreat  me  to 
drink  it.  '  You  are  too  much  dejected,'  said  she;  'drink 
this,  which  will  exhilarate  your  spirits,  and  then  explain 
to  me  the  cause  of  this  uncommon  sorrow.' 

"I  held  out  my  left  hand  to  receive  the  cup,  and  the 
necessity  of  doing  so  increased  my  affliction.  Soon  after 
the  fumes  of  the  wine,  added  to  my  fatigue  and  weakness, 
overcame  me,  and  I  fell  into  a  deep  sleep  which  lasted 
until  morning.  While  I  slept,  Margiana  lifted  up  my 
cloak,  and  seeing  me  without  my  right  hand,  was  at  no 
loss  to  account  for  my  distress.  In  the  morning  she 
would  not  suffer  me  to  depart,  but  attended  me  in  person 
till  I  was  completely  recovered.  She  then  led  me  to  a 
large  trunk,  which  she  opened,  saying,  '  Here  are  all  the 
purses  you  have  left  with  me ;  I  have  not  touched  one  ot 
them  ;  would  to  Heaven  you  had  placed  so  much  confi- 
dence in  me  as  to  have  explained  your  situation.  These  I 
insist  on  your  receiving  again,  and  as  I  feel  I  cannot  sur- 
vive the  disgrace  I  have  brought  upon  you,  I  will  send  for 
a  notary,  and  leave  you  my  whole  fortune,  which  is  very 
considerable.' 

"  She  made  her  will  accordingly ;  nor  could  my  utmost 
tenderness  prevert  her  sinking,  as  she  had  foretold,  under 


U8  ARABIAN    NIGHTS*  'ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  sense  of  ray  misfortune.     She  languished  a  few  weeks, 
and  then  expired  in  my  arms." 

The  sultan  of  Casgar  was  displeased  with  the  presump- 
tion of  the  Christian  merchant  in  comparing  this  story 
to  that  of  the  little  Hunchback;  which  the  purveyor  see- 
ing, he  entreated  permission  to  relate  a  story  more  worthy 
the  ear  of  the  sultan. 

THE    STORY   TOLD   BY   THE    PURVEYOR. 

I  was  yesterday  invited  to  a  sumptuous  entertainment, 
one  course  of  which  was  served  up  with  garlic  sauce  so 
excellent,  that  all  the  company  extolled  it  except  one, 
who  declined  to  partake  of  it;  the  master  of  the  house 
recommending  it  to  him,  he  replied,  "  I  remember  too  well 
what  the  tasting  of  such  a  dish  once  cost  me.  Yet  if  you 
persist  in  urging  me,  I  will  comply,  provided  you  will 
permit  me  to  wash  my  hands  forty  times  with  alkali,  forty 
times  with  ashes  of  the  same  plant,  and  forty  times  with 
soap."  The  curiosity  of  our  host  being  now  excited,  he 
pressed  his  guest  more  earnestly;  and  ordered  his  servants 
to  provide  the  necessaries  for  this  extraordinary  ablution. 
The  visitor,  who  was  a  merchant,  submitted,  though  with 
evident  displeasure.  He  put  a  little  garlic  to  his  mouth, 
trembling,  and  ate  it  with  great  reluctance;  after  which 
he  arose,  and  washed  his  hands  as  he  had  conditioned  to 
do.  We  were  all  surprised  at  this  scene,  and  the  more  so, 
as  we'  perceived  the  merchant  had  lost  both  his  thumbs. 

When  the  washings  were  over,  the  master  of  the  house 
apologized  to  his  guest,  and  besought  him  to  take  his  seat 
again  at  the  table,  and  inform  the  company  why  he  had 
Buch  an  aversion  to  garlic,  and  also  how  he  became  thus 
maimed.  The  merchant  with  great  good-nature  com- 
plied. 

"I  was  born,"  said  he,  "at  Bagdad;  my  father  was  es- 
teemed one  of  the  richest  merchants  of  the  city ;  but  at  his 
death,  it  appeared  that  he  had  lived  too  expensively;  I 
had  scarce  enough  left  to  pay  his  debts  and  bury  him. 
Though  I  found  myself  poor,  when  I  expected  the  con- 
trary, I  did  not  suffer  my  spirits  to  be  dejected  ;  but  took 


ARABIAN    NIUIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  149 

a  shop,  and  by  industry  and  care,  my  little  fortune  began 
to  increase  beyond  my  hope. 

"  One  day  a  lady  attended  by  a  eunuch  and  two  female 
slaves  came  into  my  shop,  and  desired  to  see  some  of  the 
richest  and  finest  stuffs.  I  modestly  told  her  that  I  was 
not  rich  enough  to  deal  in  such  expensive  goods;  but 
added,  if  she  chose  to  stay  in  my  shop  till  the  merchant 
came,  I  would  fetch  what  she  wanted  at  the  lowest  price. 
She  accepted  my  offer,  and  as  there  were  very  few  people 
in  the  bezestein,  she  threw  off  her  veil,  for  the  benefit  of 
the  air,  and  conversed  with  me  very  affably.  Her  wit  and 
beauty  so  charmed  me,  that  I  became  deeply  enamored; 
and  when  she  took  away  with  her  as  many  goods,  which 
I  had  procured,  as  came  to  five  thousand  drachms  of  silver, 
I  gazed  after  her  as  long  as  she  continued  in  sight,  with- 
out once  considering  that  she  had  not  paid  for  them. 

"  The  merchants  soon  awaked  me  from  this  reverie,  by 
calling  for  their  money.  I  pretended  to  know  the  lady, 
and  requested  credit  for  eight  days,  which  they  agreed  to. 
The  time  I  passed  very  uneasily,  but  on  the  morning  of 
the  eighth  day  I  had  the  pleasure  to  see  the  lady  enter 
the  bezestein,  and  come  directly  to  my  shop.  She  paid 
me  for  the  goods,  and  entered  into  conversation  with  me 
for  a  long  time  ;  after  which  she  desired  me  to  procure 
other  rich  goods,  of  which  she  took  away  as  many  as 
came  to  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold. 

"A  month  elapsed  without  my  seeing  the  lady  again; 
and  though  the  merchants,  pleased  with  my  former  punc- 
tuality, were  more  patient  than  I  could  have  hoped  for, 
yet  at  last  they  became  clamorous.  I  was  so  attached  to 
her,  that  ruin  itself,  arising  from  her,  was  scarcely  unwel- 
come. I  had  prepared  myself  for  the  worst,  and  hourly 
expected  it,  when  the  lady  came  and  paid  me  the  money 
I  stood  engaged  for. 

"  I  was  in  such  haste  to  pay  my  debts,  that  I  requested 
her  to  excuse  my  absence  for  a  few  moments;  on  which 
she  said  to  the  eunuch,  'Let  us  have  your  interposition 
to  accommodate  our  matters.'  The  eunuch  laughed,  and 
followed  me.  As  we  walked,  he  told  me  he  saw  by  my 
13* 


150  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

eyes  how  much  I  loved  the  lady.  '  She,'  continued  he,  'is 
no  less  pleased  with  you,  and  commissioned  me  to  tell  you 
that  she  is  ready  to  become  your  wife  if  you  desire  it.'  1 
received  this  news  with  transport.  On  our  return,  he  told 
the  lady  I  was  satisfied;  on  which  she  arose,  and  telling 
me,  with  a  smile,  I  should  hear  from  her  soon,  withdrew. 

"  Some  days  after,  the  eunuch  came  alone,  and  ac- 
quainted me  that  the  lady  was  a  favorite  of  Zobeide,  the 
caliph's  sultana,  who  had  brought  her  up  from  her  infancy. 
'She  has  told  Zobeide,'  added  he,  'of  her  intended  mar- 
riage, and  that  beautiful  princess  will  provide  liberally  for 
you  both  ;  but  she  wishes  to  see  you  before  the  marriage 
takes  place.  Have  you  courage  to  venture  being  intro- 
duced into  the  ladies'  apartments  in  the  palace,  where  you 
know  men  are  not  allowed  to  enter;  and  in  which,  if  we 
fail,  your  life  is  at  an  end?'  'I  am  read}','  exclaimed  I, 
'to  hazard  anything  for  such  an  angel.'  'Meet  me,  then,' 
replied  the  eunuch,  'this  evening  at  the  mosque  on  the 
banks  of  the  Tigris.' 

"  I  did  not  fail  to  attend  at  the  time  appointed.  When 
I  arrived  at  the  mosque,  I  found  some  men  bringing  in 
several  large  trunks.  In  a  short  time  they  all  withdrew 
except  one,  whom  I  soon  found  to  be  my  friendly  eunuch. 
At  the  same  instant  the  lady  entered  at  another  door.  I 
would  have  thrown  myself  at  her  feet,  but  she  prevented 
me.  'We  have  no  time  for  compliments,'  said  she;  'get 
into  one  of  these  trunks,  and  leave  the  management  of 
this  affair  to  me.'  I  obeyed,  trembling ;  and  presently  all 
the  trunks  were  conveyed  to  a  boat,  and  rowed  down  the 
Tigris  to  the  water-gate  of  the  palace. 

"  On  our  arrival,  the  trunks  were  carried  into  the  apart- 
ment of  the  chief  of  the  eunuchs;  who  having  retired  to 
rest,  was  obliged  to  rise,  as  nothing  could  be  carried  into 
the  palace  without  his  inspection.  The  crabbed  old  man, 
disposed  at  being  disturbed,  resolved  to  execute  his  office 
with  severity.  'I  will  have,'  said  he,  'all  these  trunks 
opened,  before  I  suffer  them  to  pass.'  At  the  same  time 
He  commanded  the  eunuchs  to  bring  them  before  him,  and 
began  with  the  one  in  which  I  lay. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  151 

"The  favorite  lady,  however,  was  not  easily  daunted. 
'Everything  in  these  trunks/  said  she,  'belongs  to  our 
mistress.  That  in  particular  contains  bottles  of  the  sacred 
Zemzem  *  water,  sent  from  Mecca  for  her  use.  Should  any 
accident  happen  to  them  from  your  impertinent  obstinacy, 
prepare  to  abide  by  the  consequences,  as  I  shall  not  fail 
to  report  your  conduct  to  Zobeide.'  The  eunuch,  intimi- 
dated by  this  spirited  behavior,  gave  up  the  point,  and 
suffered  us  to  pass  without  further  interruption. 

"  The  trunks  were  now  carried  into  the  apartments  of 
Zobeide,  but  were  scarcely  deposited,  when  the  caliph  ap- 
peared. He  asked  what  they  contained,  and  was  told  rich 
stuffs  for  the  sultana;  upon  which  he  desired  to  see  them. 
In  vain  the  favorite  lady  pleaded  her  mistress'  orders,  not 
to  have  them  opened.  '  I  will  undertake  to  reconcile  her 
to  you,'  said  the  caliph  ;  'in  the  meantime  I  will  be  obeyed.' 
"  Fortunately  the  other  trunks  did  contain  rich  apparel 
and  trinkets;  these  the  favorite  displayed,  and,  with  much 
prolixity,  pointed  out  their  several  excellences  to  the 
caliph.  At  last  they  were  all  opened  except  the  trunk 
in  which  I  was  concealed.  The  favorite  ordered  three 
eunuchs  to  take  them  away,  but  the  caliph  remembered 
there  was  one  he  had  not  examined,  and  directed  that  to 
be  opened  also.  The  favorite  appeared  ready  to  obey. 
She  even  unlocked  it.  I  shudder  now,  at  remembering 
the  terrors  I  felt  at  that  moment.  But,  as  if  recollecting 
herself,  she  entreated  the  caliph  to  excuse  her,  as  that 
trunk  contained  some  articles  she  particularly  wished  to 
remain  as  they  were  till  Zobeide  had  seen  them.  The 
caliph,  pleased  with  her  former  compliance,  and  tired  with 
the  survey,  admitted  her  apology ;  the  trunk  was  again 
locked,  and  I  was  conveyed  in  safety  to  another  apartment. 
"The  favorite  lady  came  very  shortly  and  released  me. 
*  You  are  now,'  said  she,  '  in  perfect  safety.  I  shared  in 
your  alarm,  and,  indeed,  in  your  danger;  since,  had  you 

*  There  is  a  fountain  at  Mecca  which  the  Mohammedans  believe  wns  th« 
tpring  whioh  God  showed  to  Hagar,  after  Abraham  was  obliged  to  put  her 
»way  ;  this  water  is  called  Zemzem  water,  and  is  drank  by  way  of  devotion. 
It  is  sent  in  presents  to  princes  and  great  men. 


152  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

been  discovered,  our  fate  would  have  been  the  same.  To- 
morrow I  will  introduce  you  to  the  princess.  Be  of  good 
courage,'  continued  she;  'I  repeat  that  you  are  perfectly 
safe  here.  I  will  order  you  proper  refreshments,  out  can- 
not see  you  any  more  this  evening.' 

"In  the  morning  I  was  introduced  to  Zobeide,  who 
after  a  long  conversation,  dismissed  me,  saying, '  1  am  glad 
chat  my  daughter  (as  she  tenderly  called  her  favorite)  has 
made  so  good  a  choice;  I  consent  to  your  marriage,  which 
shall  be  solemnized  here;  you  may  remain,  and  I  will  in- 
form  the  caliph  of  your  situation.'  Accordingly,  at  the 
end  of  ten  days,  our  nuptials  were  celebrated  with  great 
state.  A  noble  feast  was  prepared,  at  which,  among  other 
delicacies,  was  a  ragout  with  garlic,  of  which  I  ate  heart- 
ily;  but  unfortunately,  when  I  arose  from  the  table,  I  only 
wiped  my  hands  instead  of  washing  them. 

"  In  the  evening  the  apartments  were  lit  up  with  the 
utmost  magnificence.  My  bride  and  I  were  introduced 
into  a  great  hall,  and  seated  upon  two  thrones.  We  had  a 
grand  concert  of  music ;  after  which  the  women  who  at- 
tended her  changed  her  dress,  and  painted  her  face  with 
different  sorts  of  colors,  according  to  the  usual  custom  on 
wedding-days  ;  and  every  time  she  changed  her  habit  they 
presented  her  to  me.  In  the  evening  we  were  conducted 
to  the  nuptial  chamber,  where,  when  the  company  retired, 
I  approached  to  embrace  my  wife;  but  instead  of  receiv- 
ing me  with  transport,  she  pushed  me  from  her,  and  cried 
out  loudly.  The  ladies,  who  had  not  withdrawn  far,  came 
running  into  the  chamber  to  know  the  cause,  while  I  stood 
like  one  thunderstruck.  '  Take  away,'  said  she,  '  that  vile 
fellow  out  of  my  sight.'  'Alas!'  replied  I,  'how  have  I 
incurred  your  displeasure?'  'Wretch!'  said  she,  'have 
you  not  neglected  to  wash  your  hands  after  eating  garlic  ? 
but  I  will  punish  your  disrespect  as  it  deserves.'  She  then 
directed  her  slaves  to  strip  me,  and  I  received  from  them 
a  furious  bastinadoing,  after  which  she  ordered  my  hands 
and  feet  to  be  cut  off. 

"  I  was  terrified  at  this  severe  sentence,  and  cried  out, 
Is  it  not  enough  to  be  thus  disgraced  and  unmercifully 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  153 

oeaten,  but  I  must  lose  my  hands  and  feet  also,  for  eating 
a  ragout  of  garlic,  and  forgetting  to  wash  my  hands  after 
it?  Plague  on  the  ragout!  plague  on  the  cook  that  dressed 
it  I  and  may  he  be  equally  unhappy  that,  served  it  up ! ' 
The  ladies  took  pity  on  me,  and  interceded  for  me ;  but 
they  could  only  prevail  with  my  wife  to  be  satisfied  with 
cutting  off  my  thumbs  and  great  toes,  which  was  imme- 
diately done. 

"  Through  vexation  and  loss  of  blood  I  fainted.  When 
I  revived,  I  found  no  one  with  me  but  an  old  woman,  who 
attended  me  with  tolerable  care  till  I  recovered.  Not- 
withstanding this  hai-sh  treatment,  I  still  loved  my  wife ; 
I  sent  the  most  pressing  entreaties  to  be  admitted  once 
more  into  her  presence  ;  after  many  refusals  she  yielded. 
I  apologized  to  her  for  my  indiscretion,  and  solemnly 
swore,  if  ever  I  ate  garlic  again,  I  would  wash  my  hands 
in  the  manner  you  have  seen.  Upon  this  the  lady  forgave 
me,  and  consented  to  receive  me  as  her  husband. 

"  We  continued  some  time  in  the  apartments  of  Zobeide, 
from  whose  bounty  we  received  a  present  of  fifty  thousand 
sequins;  and  notwithstanding  our  rough  outset,  my  wife 
and  I  lived  together  in  the  utmost  harmony  for  about  a 
year,  when  she  fell  sick  and  died.  It  was  to  divert  my 
melancholy  for  her  loss,  that  induced  me  to  travel  hither." 

"  This  story,"  said  the  caliph,  "  is  truly  singular,  but 
not  equal  to  that  of  poor  Hunchback."  Upon  which  the 
Jewish  doctor  asked  leave  to  relate  one;  which  being 
granted,  he  proceeded  thus  : 

THE    STORY   TOLD    BY   THE   JEWISH    PHYSICIAN. 

Some  time  ago  I  was  sent  for  to  attend  a  patient  in  the 
family  of  the  governor  of  Damascus.  I  was  introduced  to 
a  young  man,  of  good  mien,  but  much  dejected  ;  on  re- 
questing to  feel  his  pulse,  he  presented  me  with  his  left 
baud.  I  was  about  to  resent  the  indignity,  but  finding  he 
was  very  ill,  I  suppressed  my  displeasure,  and  prescribed 
such  medicines  as  I  thought  necessary. 

He  recovered  very  fast  under  my  care;  yet  still,  as 
often  as  I  had  occasion  to  feel  his  pulse,  he  continued  t& 


154  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

present  his  left  hand.  On  the  tenth  day  I  ordered  bath- 
ing, and  was  about  to  take  my  leave;  but  my  patient  re- 
quested I  would  attend  him  to  the  bath.  I  complied;  and 
when  he  began  to  undress,  I  perceived  that  his  right  hand 
had  been  lately  cut  off.  I  suppose  my  looks  expressed 
much  surprise ;  for,  after  bathing,  the  young  man  led  me 
to  a  saloon,  and  addressed  me  thus  : 

"  I  am  so  much  indebted  to  your  abilities  for  my  speedy 
recovery,  that  I  cannot  refuse  you  the  satisfaction  of 
knowing  by  what  accident  I  became  thus  mutilated,  and 
which,  in  truth,  was  the  cause  of  the  disorder  from  which 
you  have  relieved  me. 

"  I  was  born  at  Moussoul ;  my  father  was  the  eldest  of 
ten  brothers,  all  of  them  merchants.  As  I  was  an  only 
son,  and  none  of  my  uncles  bad  children,  I  was  much  ca- 
ressed by  them  all;  and  was  earlier  than  usual  introduced 
into  the  company  of  men.  One  day  my  father  and  his 
brothers  were  talking  about  Egypt,  and  Cairo  its  capital. 
They  were  all  eloquent  in  its  praise.  '  In  that  happy 
country,'  said  my  father,  '  the  bounty  of  nature  is  most 
abundant ;  the  wonders  of  human  art  are  innumerable. 
The  redundancy  of  the  Nile  renders  the  land  at  once  beau- 
tiful and  fertile.  The  inhabitants  are  more  polished,  the 
women  in  parti. ulai  are  more  agreeable  and  beautiful,  than 
in  any  other  city.  If  you  view  the  pyramids,  those  monu- 
ments of  ancient  magnificence,  you  are  astonished  :  these 
buildings  are  a.'  once  proofs  of  the  riches  of  the  Pharaohs 
who  built  them,  and  of  the  abilities  of  the  artists  of  that 
early  period;  for  though  the  time  of  the  erection  is  so  far 
back  that  the  Imrned  can  only  conjecture  when  it  was,  yet 
they  remain  perfect  to  this  day,  and  probably  will  do  so 
for  ages  to  come.  Nor  are  the  instances  of  modern  in- 
genuity less  interesting.  In  short,  the  commerce,  the 
riches,  the  number  and  variety  of  strangers  to  be  found 
tin 're,  justify  the  proverb,  that  he  that  hath  not  seen 
Egypt,  hath  no*  seen  the  greatest  sight  in  the  world.' 

"  I  listened  to  this  eulogium  with  much  attention,  and 
from  that  time  nothing  employed  my  thoughts  but  a  jour- 
ney to  Cairo.    Fortunately  some  of  my  uncles  were  seized 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  155 

with  the  same  desire.  I  immediately  became  importunate 
with  my  father  for  permission  to  join  the  caravan.  For  a 
long  time  I  sued  in  vain  ;  but  my  uncles  pressir  g  the  samo 
request,  my  father  agreed  to  a  part  of  my  desire.  He 
allowed  me  to  go  as  far  as  Damascus,  on  condition  I  should 
wait  there  for  my  uncles'  return  from  Egypt ;  and  that  1 
might  not  be  without  employ,  he  gave  me  a  cargo  of  goods 
suited  to  that  market,  to  dispose  of  for  my  own  profit. 

"When  we  arrived  at  Damascus,  my  uncles  took  a  house 
for  me,  and  introduced  me  to  the  principal  merchants. 
After  their  departure  I  applied  myself  to  business. with 
great  diligence  and  success.  The  prudence  of  my  conduct 
endeared  me  to  my  new  friends,  and  I  became  every  day 
more  wealthy  and  more  respected. 

"  My  tranquillity  was  at  last  destroyed  by  a  singular 
accident.  I  became  acquainted  with  a  very  beautiful  lady, 
who  used  to  come  occasionall}1"  and  sup  with  me.  I  at- 
tached myself  to  her  with  all  the  eagerness  of  affection  so 
natural  to  youth  and  inexperience.  One  evening  she 
began  to  discourse  with  me  on  the  power  of  beauty.  I 
was  declaring  how  immovably  my  heart  was  fixed  on  her. 
when  she  interrupted  me,  and  said,  with  an  enchanting 
smile,  '  We  shall  soon  see  this  boasted  constancy  tried.  A 
particular  friend  of  mine  hath  long  wished  to  see  you  ;  I 
have  undertaken  to  introduce  her :  but  I  forewarn  you  to 
guard  your  heart.  Her  beauty  far  exceeds  mine,  and  her 
wit  and  vivacity  make  her  almost  irresistible  ;  yet  I  have 
no  design  of  resigning  you  to  her;  beware,  therefore,  for 
I  am  going  to  put  your  heart  to  a  strange  trial.' 

"A  few  evenings  after,  the  two  ladies  paid  me  a  visit. 
1  soon  found  my  friend  had  not  said  too  much  of  her  com- 
panion's charms.  Jf  I  had  been  pleased  with  the  one,  1 
was  enraptured  with  the  other.  I  received  them  with  all 
the  politeness  in  my  power,  and  invited  them  to  take  part 
of  a  collation  I  had  prepared;  but  I  did  this  with  so  much 
emotion,  that  my  former  acquaintance  laughingly  declared 
I  was  already  unfaithful. 

"  During  supper  I  sat  opposite  my  new  visitor,  who  dis- 
played her  charms  as  if  on  purpose  to  captivate  me.     But 


156  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

by  inspiring  me,  she  took  fire  also  herself:  her  eyes  an- 
swered mine,  in  a  language  very  easily  understood  by 
lovers  ;  and  when  the  wine  bad  circulated  a  little,  we  each 
incautiously  suffered  our  new  passion  to  appear  unre- 
strained. 

"  My  first  acquaintance  continued  to  rally  us  with  great 
good-humor,  laughing  chiefly  at  me,  and  repeating  my 
former  protestations.  By  degrees  this  pleasantry  subsided  : 
she  became  first  peevish,  and  then  sullen.  At  length,  hav- 
ing sat  silent  a  considerable  time,  she  arose  and  went  out 
of  the  room.  A  few  moments  after,  the  other  lady  fell 
into  convulsions,  and  expired  in  my  arms  while  I  was  call- 
ing for  assistance.  In  the  midst  of  my  alarm  and  confu- 
sion, I  inquired  for  the  lady  who  had  withdrawn,  and  I 
found  she  had  left  the  house.  I  then  suspected,  what  was 
certainly  the  case,  that,  instigated  by  rage  and  jealousy, 
she  had  conveyed  poison  into  her  friend's  wine,  which  she 
had  just  before  poured  out  for  her. 

"  I  was  excessively  afflicted  at  this  fatal  accident,  and  a 
good  deal  alarmed  for  the  consequences  that  might  prob- 
ably follow  from  it.  To  avoid  the  latter,  I  ordered  my 
servants  (who  fortunately  were  the  same  I  had  brought 
from  Moussoul)  to  take  up  the  pavement  in  the  yard,  and 
inter  the  body.  In  the  morning  I  was  ready  for  a  journej^. 
I  sent  for  my  landlord,  and  told  him  particular  business 
obliged  me  to  follow  my  uncles  to  Cah-o.  I  paid  him  a 
year's  rent  in  advance,  and  affixed  my  seal  to  the  door  of 
the  house.  I  then  set  out  for  Cairo,  attended  by  all  my 
domestics. 

"  I  continued  three  years  in  that  city,  taking  care  regu- 
larly to  send  my  rent  to  my  landlord.  At  last  I  deter- 
mined to  return  home,  and  arriving  in  my  way  at  Damas- 
cus, took  possession  of  my  former  habitation. 

"  In  cleaning  out  the  room  where  I  used  to  eat,  one  of 
my  servants  found  a  beautiful  pearl  necklace,  which  I  im- 
mediately knew  was  worn  by  the  lady  who  had  so  unfor- 
tunately perished  in  my  arms.  I  shed  many  tears  over  it; 
and  resolved  to  remain  a  few  days  at  Damascus,  to  indulge 
ths  melancholy  sensations  which  this  accident  revived 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  157 

After  some  time  my  cash  was  nearly  exhausted ;  and  as  1 
found  the  sight  of  the  necklace  only  contributed  to  make 
me  wretched,  I  determined  to  part  with  it,  instead  of  car- 
rying any  of  my  own  goods  to  market. 

"  I  went  accordingly  to  the  bezestein,  and  employed  a 
crier  to  show  it  to  the  jewellers.  After  a  time  he  returned 
and  told  me  that  the  pearls  had  been  examined,  and  proved 
to  be  false,  and  that  the  utmost  he  could  get  for  it  was 
fifty  sherifs. 

"As  I  was  entirely  ignorant  of  its  value,  I  ordered  the 
crier  to  sell  it  and  bring  me  the  money.  I  waited  some 
time  for  his  return,  and  when  he  came,  there  were  several 
people  with  him,  one  of  whom  wasthe  judiciaiy  judge,  who 
asked  me  if  that  necklace  was  mine,  and  if  I  had  offered 
to  sell  it  for  fifty  sherifs  ?  On  my  admitting  this,  another 
person,  who  was  a  jeweller,  said  to  the  judge,  'You  see, 
ray  lord,  my  charge  is  true;  the  necklace  is  mine.  The 
pearls  alone  are  worth  two  thousand  sherifs,  and  this 
young  fellow  offering  to  take  fifty  for  it,  is  a  full  proof 
that  he  stole  it.'  The  judge  having  satisfied  himself  as  to 
the  real  value  of  the  pearls,  ordered  me  to  be  bastinadoed 
till  I  confessed  how  I  came  by  it.  This  was  instantly 
done  with  so  much  severity,  that,  overcome  with  the  torture, 
I  confessed  the  charge  ;  on  which  the  judge  delivered  the 
necklace  to  the  jeweller,  and  ordered  my  right  hand  to  be 
«jut  off. 

"This  sentence  was  executed  on  the  spot,  after  which  I 
was  set  at  liberty.  I  returned  home,  overcome  with  shame 
and  sorrow.  My  landlord,  who  had  heard  of  my  misfor- 
tune, came  and  condoled  with  me;  but  concluded  his  dis- 
course by  telling  me,  that,  as  I  had  brought  myself  to  so 
much  infamy,  1  must  immediately  quit  his  house;  nor  was 
it  without  great  difficulty  I  could  prevail  with  him  to  let 
me  stay  three  days. 

"I  felt  now  still  more  severely  the  disgrace  which  had 
befallen  me;  and  my  grief  was  aggravated  by  considering 
the  appearance  I  should  make  before  my  father  and  my 
ancles.  While  I  was  revolving  these  tormenting  ideas,  my 
house  was  surrounded  by  the  officers  of  justice,  attended 
14 


158  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

by  a  great  crowd  of  people,  at  the  head  of  which  wa? 
the  jeweller  who  had  so  falsely  accused  me.  They  forced 
open  the  doors,  seized  and  bound  me,  reviling  and  exe- 
crating me  all  the  time  in  the  harshest  terms.  For  some 
time  I  demanded  in  vain  the  cause  of  this  violence;  at 
length  I  was  told  that  the  necklace  I  had  stolen  was  the 
property  of  the  governor,  whose  daughter  had  been  miss- 
ing  above  three  years,  and  had  that  necklace  on  when 
she  was  last  seen. 

"  On  hearing  this,  I  gave  myself  up  for  lost.  Despair  sup- 
plied the  place  of  courage.  My  life  was  become  hateful 
to  me.  I  determined,  therefore,  to  relate  the  whole  truth 
to  the  governor,  and  to  meet  with  resolution  a  fate  I 
hardly  wished  to  escape.  When  I  was  brought  before  him, 
he  ordered  me  to  be  unbound,  and  I  observed  he  looked 
upon  me  with  an  eye  of  compassion.  '  Is  this  the  man, 
said  he  to  the  jeweller,  '  whom  jtou  charged  with  having 
stolen  this  necklace?'  My  adversary  durst  not  deny  it. 
f  I  know,'  replied  the  governor,  '  he  is  falsely  accused.'  En- 
couraged by  this  declaration,  I  avowed  my  innocence, 
protesting  that  the  confession  I  had  made  was  extorted 
from  me  by  torture.  'I  am  ready,'  continued  I,  'to  relate 
how  it  came  into  my  hands;  but  as  to  that  man,  whose 
villany  has  brought  me  into  such  disgrace,  I  declare  1 
never  saw  him  till  this  fatal  day;  nor  have  I  the  least 
reason  to  believe  the  necklace  was  ever  seen  by  him  be- 
fore.' '  I  know  enough  of  this  matter  myself,'  replied  the 
governor,  '  to  be  certain  of  your  innocence.  Take  away,' 
said  he, 'this  base  jeweller ;  let  him  undergo  the  same  pun- 
ishment he  hath  villanously  brought  upon  this  poor  young 
man,  to  whose  use  I  confiscate  his  effects.' 

"  The  assembly  being  dismissed,  the  governor  withdrew 
with  me  into  a  private  room,  where  he  desired  me  to  tell 
him  without  fear  how  I  came  into  possession  of  the  neck- 
lace. I  related  to  him  every  circumstance,  at  which  he 
was  greatly  affected.  'Good  God!'  said  he,  '  thy  judg- 
ments are  incomprehensible;  I  receive  with  entire  submis- 
sion the  stroke  thou  hast  been  pleased  to  inflict  on  me 
Know,  my  child,'  said  he  tc  me,  'I  am  the  father  of  th« 
two  young  ladies  you  have  been  speaking  of. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  159 

"'The  first  lady  who  had  the  imprudence  to  come  to 
your  house,  was  my  eldest  daughter.  I  had  given  her  in 
marriage  to  my  brother's  son,  who  was  settled  in  Cairo, 
At  his  death  she  returned  home,  corrupted  with  all  man- 
ner  of  wickedness.  The  lady  who  died  so  deplorably  in 
your  arms,  was  a  very  prudent  young  woman  till  her 
eldest  sister  returned  from  Egypt,  who  made  her  insensi- 
bly as  wicked  as  herself  On  the  absence  of  my  younger 
daughter,  I  made  all  possible  inquiry  after  her,  to  no  pur- 
pose ;  and  I  recollect  now,  that  from  that  time  my  eldest 
daughter  devoted  herself  to  sorrow ;  repenting  no  doubt 
of  her  jealous  fury,  she  denied  herself  all  manner  of  food, 
and  in  that  manner  put  an  end  to  her  wretched  life. 

"'Such/  continued  the  governor,  'is  the  state  of  man! 
such  the  calamities  from  which  no  rank  is  secured !  But 
to  make  you  reparation  for  what  you  have  suffered  on 
their  account,  I  will  give  you  in  marriage  the  only  child  I 
have  left,  who  is  younger  and  more  beautiful  than  either 
of  her  sisters.  You  shall  have  no  other  house  but  mine; 
and  when  I  die  you  shall  be  my  heir.'  I  accepted  the 
governor's  proposal  with  joy ;  the  contract  was  drawn, 
and  our  nuptials  would  have  been  celebrated  directly,  but 
the  fever  from  which  your  skill  has  delivered  me  followed 
the  loss  of  my  hand  and  the  agitations  I  had  undergone. 
As  I  am  now  recovered,  my  marriage  will  this  day  bo 
completed." 

The  sultan  being  pleased  with  this  story,  directed  the 
tailor  to  repeat  any  remarkable  occurrence  which  had  be- 
fallen him. 

THE  STORY  TOLD  BY  THE  TAILOR. 

A  citizen  of  this  city  invited  me  two  days  ago  to  an  en- 
tertainment. The  company  were  nearly  assembled,  wheD 
the  master  of  the  house  introduced  a  stranger,  polite  and 
well  dressed,  but  lame.  The  young  man  paid  his  compli- 
ments very  respectfully  to  every  one,  till  he  came  to  a 
barber,  when  he  started  back,  and  hastened  toward  the 
door.  The  master  of  the  house,  surprised  at  his  emotion, 
stopped   him,  and   desired  he  would   explain    the  causa 


160  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

"  For  God's  sake,  sir."  replied  the  stranger,  "  let  me  go  ;  i 
cannot  without  horror  look  upon  that  abominable  barber. 
His  face  resembles  an  Ethiopian,  and  his  soul  is  ten  times 
more  black  and  horrible  than  his  face." 

We  were  all  amazed  to  hear  these  expressions,  and  be- 
gan to  look  very  unfavorably  on  the  barber,  when  our 
host  said  to  the  young  man,  "  I  brought  you  to  my  houso 
to  give  you  pleasure,  and  cannot  wish  to  detain  you  against 
your  inclinations;  but  I  would  be  glad  to  know  why  you 
expressed  yourself  against  one  of  my  guests  with  so  much 
bitterness.  You  owe,"  continued  he,  "this  explanation  to 
me  and  to  my  other  friends,  that  we  may  expel  him  from 
our  society,  if  he  is  unworthy  of  it." 

"Gentlemen,"  replied  the  stranger,  "this  cursed  barber 
is  the  cause  of  my  being  lame.  Besides,  to  his  imperti- 
nence I  owe  the  severest  disappointment  and  disgrace. 
On  this  account,  I  have  made  a  vow  never  to  remain  in 
the  city  where  he  dwells.  To  avoid  him  I  left  Bagdad  and 
travelled  hither,  into  the  heart  of  great  Tartary ;  and  I 
will  now  leave  your  city,  and  go,  if  I  can,  where  he  shall 
never  come."  Every  one  became  interested  to  hear  the 
cause  of  so  great"  an  aversion.  The  young  man  suffered 
himself  to  be  prevailed  on  to  relate  the  reason ;  and  sit- 
ting down  on  the  sofa,  with  his  back  to  the  barber,  gave 
us  the  following  account: 

"  Very  early  in  my  life  I  contracted  an  aversion  to 
women ;  insomuch  that  I  carefully  avoided  all  conversation 
with  them ;  but  I  chanced  one  day  to  cast  my  eye  up  to  a 
window,  where  I  saw  a  young  lady  of  such  exquisite 
beauty,  as  at  once  dissipated  my  prejudices,  and  inspired 
me  with  love.  On  inquiring  who  it  was  I  was  thus  en- 
elavod  by,  I  had  the  mortification  to  hear  that  she  was  the 
only  child  of  the  first  cadi,  a  man  of  great  wealth,  but  of 
istill  greater  pride  and  severity  of  manners.  As  all  hope 
of  obtaining  an  interview  with  my  charmer  was  improb- 
able, I  tried  to  subdue  my  passion.  But  instead  of  suc- 
ceeding. I  found  my  health  so  affected  by  the  tumult  of 
my  mind,  that  I  was  obliged  to  confine  myself  to  my  bed 
I  grew  worse  daily,  but  carefully  kept  secret  the  cause  of 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  161 

my  disorder.  At  last  a  notable  old  _ady  coming  to  see  me. 
observed  I  sighed  often.  She  began  to  talk  with  me  about 
love,  and  being  a  woman  of  address,  she  found  out  the 
source  of  my  disorder. 

"  To  her  I  unbosomed  myself;  and  the  old  lady,  delight- 
ing  in  such  commissions,  undertook  to  procure  me  an  in- 
terview with  my  mistress.  This  was  by  no  means  an 
easy  undertaking,  for  the  cadi  had  brought  up  bis  daughter 
with  so  much  strictness  that  it  was  a  long  time  before  she 
would  hear  of  such  a  measure.  My  trusty  advocate  had 
art  and  perseverance,  and  at  last  obtained,  hardly,  the 
young  lady's  consent  to  receive  me  on  the  following  Fri- 
day, at  the  time  of  noon  prayers,  when  the  cadi  went  to  the 
mosque.  These  welcome  tidings  restored  my  health  and 
spirits,  so  that  before  the  appointed  time  I  was  perfectly 
recovered. 

"When  the  eagerly  expected  morning  arrived,  I  dressed 
myself  to  the  best  advantage,  and  sent  for  a  barber  to 
shave  me.  My  slave  brought  with  him  this  wretch.  When 
he  came  in,  'Sir,'  said  he,  'you  look  as  if  you  were  not 
well;  pray  let  me  know  what  service  I  can  do  for  you.  I 
have  brought  my  lancets  as  well  as  my  razor,  and  am  pre- 
pared to  bleed  as  well  as  to  shave  you.'  I  told  him  I  only 
wanted  to  be  shaved,  and  that  immediately,  as  I  had  an 
appointment  to  attend  at  noon. 

"He  was  a  long  time  opening  his  case,  and  preparing 
his  razors;  when,  instead  of  proceeding  to  shave  me,  he 
took  out  an  astrolabe,  and  went  very  gravely  out  of  the 
room  to  the  middle  of  the  yard  to  take  the  height  of  the 
sun.  Returning  with  the  same  gravity,  he  said,  '  Sir,  you 
will  be  pleased  to  know  that  this  day  is  Friday,  the  18th 
of  the  month  Safar,  and  that  the  conjunction  of  Mars  and 
Mercury  signifies  you  cannot  choose  a  better  time  than 
this  very  day  and  this  very  hour  for  being  shaved.  But 
this  conjunction  is  also  ominous  to  you.  You  will  this 
day  be  in  great  danger,  not  indeed  of  losing  your  life,  but 
of  an  inconvenience  which  will  attend  you  as  long  as  yoi 
live.' 

"  I  was  quite  enraged  at  his  prating  and  impertinence. 
14*  L 


162  ARABIAN    WIGHTS'    ENTEETAINMENTS. 

1 1  did  not  send  for  you,'  said  I,  '  to  instruct  me  in  t.strol. 
ogy,  but  to  shave  me;  which  I  insist  on  your  doing  di- 
rectly, or  go  about  your  business.'  '  Sir,'  replied  he,  with 
a  dulness  that  put  me  out  of  all  patience, '  why  do  you  put 
yourself  in  a  passion?  Do  you  think  I  am  a  common 
shaver?  You  sent  for  a  barber  only ;  but  besides  having 
in  me  the  best  barber  in  Bagdad,  you  have  also  an  experi- 
enced physician,  a  very  profound  chemist,  an  infallible 
astrologer,  a  finished  grammarian,  a  complete  orator,  a 
subtile  logician,  an  admirable  mathematician  and  histo- 
rian ;  besides,  I  know  all  parts  of  philosophy.  I  am  a 
poet,  ah  architect,  and  excel  in  all  the  sciences.  Your  late 
father,  my  very  good  friend,  whose  memory  I  revere,  held 
me  in  the  highest  esteem.  I  am — '  'Prithee,  peace,  thou 
endless  babbler,'  exclaimed  I,  interrupting  him,  'and  do 
the  business  I  sent  for  you  to  do.' 

"'You  do  me  wrong,'  replied  he, '  to  call  me  a  babbler; 
on  the  contrary,  all  the  world  give  me  the  honorable  title 
of  Silent.'  Finding  he  was  again  beginning  to  harangue, 
I  ordered  my  slave  to  pay  him,  and  turn  him  out  of  doors; 
but  even  this  did  not  relieve  me.  '  I  came  here,'  said  he, 
'to  shave  you;  and  by  the  faith  of  a  Mussulman,  I  will 
not  leave  you  until  I  have  performed  that  operation.' 

"  In  hope  of  getting  rid  of  him,  I  submitted  to  be  shaved 
by  him,  only  desiring  him  to  be  speedy.  He  had  scarcely 
begun  to  use  his  razor,  when  he  stopped,  saying,  '  I  won- 
der, sir,  you  will  not  avoid  those  transports  of  rage,  which 
come  only  from  the  devil.  Besides,  you  ought  to  have 
more  respect  for  a  man  of  my  age,  knowledge,  and  many 
virtues.  You  have  an  engagement  at  noon;  why,  it  now 
wants  at  least  three  hours  of  that  time.'  Again  he  laid 
down  his  razor,  and  took  up  his  astrolabe,  leaving  me 
half  shaved,  to  go  and  see  what  time  of  day  it  was.  'I 
told  you,'  said  he,  on  his  return,  '  you  have  time  enough.' 
I  could  hold  no  longer.  '  "Sou  cursed  barber,  you  barber 
of  mischief,'  said  1,  'I  know  not  what  hinders  me  from 
strangling  you  ! '  '  Patience,  sir,'  said  he, '  I  am  just  about 
to  complete  your  business.' 

"  I  should  weary  you  in  relating  how  he  further  exer- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTEIl  TAINMENTS.  163 

cised  my  patience.  I  heard  the  first  and  last  call  to  noon 
prayers :  I  was  not  even  able  to  rid  myself  of  this  abom- 
inable fellow,  till  long  after  they  had  begun.  I  hastened 
then  to  my  appointment,  but  had  the  mortification  to  per- 
ceive he  followed  me.  I  passed  hastily  through  many 
streets,  in  hope  of  giving  him  the  slip ;  which  when  I 
thought  I  had  completed,  I  hastened  to  the  cadi's  house; 
but  as  I  ascended  the  stairs,  to  the  young  lady's  apart- 
ment, I  saw  him  take  his  station  opposite  the  door  of  the 
mansion. 

"  My  mistress  received  me  kindly,  and  I  should  have 
been  perfectly  happy,  had  I  not  dreaded  this  impertinent 
fellow  would  expose  me.  Nor  was  this  fear  groundless ; 
when  the  cadi  returned,  he  did  not  come  near  his  daugh- 
ter's apartments,  but  it  chanced  that  he  chastised  a  slave 
who  had  misbehaved.  The  barber,  hearing  his  outcries, 
supposed  they  came  from  me;  and  officiously  screaming 
out,  he  rent  his  clothes,  threw  dust  on  his  head,  and  called 
out  to  the  neighbors  for  assistance.  A  crowd  soon  gath- 
ered round  the  house,  to  whom  the  barber  cried  out,  'Help, 
Mussulmans,  for  the  love  of  God  I  they  are  assassinating 
my  master,  my  dear  patron.  I  saw  him  go  in  here,  and 
they  have  been  just  now  bastinadoing  him,  for  I  heard  his 
outcries.' 

"  The  crowd  became  enraged  at  this  story,  nor  could 
even  the  venerable  presence  of  the  cadi  inspire  them  with 
respect,  when  he  came  forth  to  pacify  them.  'Ah!  you 
cursed  cadi!  you  dog  of  a  cadi!'  exclaimed  the  barber, 
;  how  durst  you  thus  assault  a  Mussulman  ?  I  know  your 
daughter  is  in  love  with  my  patron,  and  hath  invited  him 
here,  during  the  time  of  noon  prayers,  and  I  heard  him 
cry  out  under  the  barbarous  discipline  you  inflicted  on 
him.'  The  cadi  denied  all  this,  but  finding  the  people 
continued  enraged,  he  offered  to  permit  the  barber  and 
two  or  three  others  to  enter  his  house  and  search  for  me 

"At  the  beginning  of  the  disturbance,  I  had  hid  myself, 
at  the  earnest  request  of  the  young  lady,  in  a  large  empty 
trunk.  This  trunk  escaped  the  attention  of  the  other 
people  ;  but  the  officious  barber  opened  it,  and  no  sooner 


164  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

saw  me,  than  he  gave  a  great  shout,  and  placing  it  on  his 
head,  ran  into  the  street.  As  he  carried  me,  one  part  of 
the  trunk,  which  was  very  old,  fell  off,  and  exposed  me  to 
the  shouts  of  the  mob,  now  very  much  disposed  to  turn 
the  matter  into  a  jest.  I  could  not  bear  this,  but  leaped 
out  into  the  street  with  so  much  haste,  that  I  hurt  my  leg, 
and  have  been  lame  ever  since. 

"  I  was  not  sensible  at  first  how  bad  I  was  hurt,  and, 
therefore,  having  thrown  handfuls  of  money, among  the 
people,  I  endeavored  to  escape ;  but  the  mischievous  bar- 
ber still  continued  to  persecute  me.  '  Stay,  sir,'  cried  he, 
'why  do  you  run  so  fast?  Alas!  if  you  had  taken  my 
advice,  you  would  not  have  been  in  that  perilous  situa- 
tion, from  which  it  was  my  good  fortune  to  deliver  you. 
Whither  do  you  run,  then,  sir?     Stay  for  me.' 

."  Not  content  with  this,  he  went  all  over  the  town  re- 
lating this  story,  with  a  variety  of  ridiculous  circum- 
stances of  his  own  invention.  In  short,  finding  when  I 
was  cured  that  I  had  no  more  hope  of  seeing  the  lady, 
and  that  the  people  were  everywhere  disposed  to  laugh  at 
me,  through  the  malice  or  folly  of  this  detestable  barber, 
I  determined  to  quit  forever  my  native  city,  and  never  to 
remain  in  any  other,  if  that  fellow  should  come  to  it. 
Having  nov,  gentlemen,  gratified  your  curiosity,  I  must 
desire  that  you  will  permit  me  to  fulfil  that  resolution." 
Saying  this,  he  arose,  and  without  looking  at  the  barber, 
bade  us  farewell. 

We  expressed  our  surprise  at  this  story,  and  some  of  us 
began  to  blame  the  barber,  who  raising  up  his  head  for 
the  first  time,  acknowledged  the  story  to  be  generally 
true.  "  But,"  said  he,  "did  not  he  throw  himself  into  the 
danger  I  warned  him  of,  and  from  which  I  delivered  him  ; 
what  reason  then  has  he  to  complain  of  me?  But  thus  it 
is,  to  serve  unthankful  people!  As  to  his  story  of  my 
being  a  prattling  fellow,  it  is  an  absolute  scandal.  Of 
seven  brothers  I  am  the  least  talker,  though  the  most 
witty.  To  convince  you,  gentlemen,  I  need  only  relate 
to  you  their  stories  and  my  own.  Let  me  request  your 
Attention." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8.  165 


THE    STORY   OP   THE    BARBER. 

In  the  reign  of  the  late  caliph,  the  roads  near  Bagdad 
were  much  infested  by  ten  highwaymen.  Their  depreda- 
tions, every  day  more  insolent,  at  length  reached  the  ear 
of  the  caliph,  who  commanded  the  judge  of  the  police  to 
apprehend  them  within  a  limited  time,  on  pain  of  death. 
Alarmed  at  this  rigorous  order,  the  judge  exerted  himself 
so  effectually,  that  they  were  all  taken  by  the  next  day 
which  was  the  day  of  Bairam.  As  it  was  holiday  time 
I  was  walking  on  the  banks  of  the  Tigris,  and  seeing  a 
number  of  well-dressed  men  enter  a  boat,  I  concluded 
they  were  going  to  spend  the  festival  in  jollity;  so  without 
ceremony,  I  entered  the  boat  along  with  them.  Every 
one  preserved  a  profound  silence,  and  I  presently  observed 
part  of  the  company  were  officers  of  the  police.  I  had 
very  little  time  to  reflect  on  my  situation,  which  I  began 
to  do  with  much  uneasiness,  when  we  landed  at  the  royal 
palace,  where  we  were  received  by  a  party  of  guards,  who 
bound  us  all  with  cords,  that  h^l  not  the  ensigns  of  office 
in  their  hands.  Expostulation  I  saw  was  in  vain ;  I  suf- 
fered myself,  therefore,  to  be  led  away  with  the  highway- 
men, without  remonstrance.  When  we  were  brought  be- 
fore the  caliph,  he  ordered  our  heads  to  be  immediately 
struck  off.  All  my  companions  were  clamorous  for  mercy: 
I  alone  was  silent.  The  executioner  soon  dispatched  the 
highwaymen,  and  was  proceeding  to  put  me  to  death, 
when  the  caliph,  seeing  something  in  my  appearance  which 
took  his  attention,  condescended  to  examine  me  himself. 
I  related  to  him  the  accident  which  brought  me  into  my 
perilous  situution,  with  so  much  simplicity,  that  the  caliph 
was  convinced  of  my  innocence,  and  set  me  at  large ; 
highly  commending  my  fortitude  and  silence  in  a  moment 
of  so  much  danger.  After  this,  it  is  hardly  necessary  to 
relate  to  you  the  stories  of  my  six  brothers,  whose  char- 
acters brighten  mine.  Yet  for  your  amusement,  I  am 
willing  to  repeat  them. 


166  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 


THE    STORY   OF   THE    BARBER'S    ELDEST   BROTHER. 

My  eldest  brother,  whose  name  was  Bacbouc,  had  the 
misfortune  to  be  humpbacked.  He  was  a  tailor,  and  hav- 
ing but  little  business,  could  scarcely  maintain  himself. 
Opposite  his  shop  lived  a  wealthy  miller,  who  had  a  very 
handsome  wife,  with  whom  my  silly  brother  fell  in  love. 
The  miller's  wife  soon  perceived  the  conquest  she  had 
made,  and  determined  to  turn  his  passion  to  her  amuse- 
ment;  she  often  smiled  upon  him  from  her  window,  and 
whenever  she  appeared  there,  he  did  not  fail  to  express 
his  passion  by  every  grimace  he  could  invent. 

The  miller's  wife  was  all  this  time  studying  to  punish 
his  presumption.  She  began  by  sending  him  stuffs  to  be 
made  up  into  different  garments.  All  these,  the  slave 
used  to  tell  him,  her  mistress  praised  highly;  but  she 
never  sent  any  money  for  the  making  or  trimmings.  He 
was  too  gallant  to  ask  for  any,  and  often  went  with  a 
hungry  belly  in  the  evening,  after  having  labored  hard  all 
day  for  his  unmerciful  mktress ;  but  as  the  slave  did  not 
forget  to  hint  every  now  and  then  what  a  progress  he  was 
making  in  her  affection,  the  poor  tailor  was  quite  happy 
in  his  sufferings.  After  some  time,  the  lady  fearing  others 
should  take  notice  of  Bacbouc's  behavior,  and  by  that 
means  her  character  might  be  aspersed,  contrived  to  get 
rid  of  him  in  the  following  manner. 

She  related  to  her  husband  the  story  of  my  brother's 
love,  and  her  plan  to  punish  it.  The  miller,  highly  de- 
lighted, readily  agreed  to  give  his  assistance.  The  same 
evening  he  called  upon  my  brother,  and  invited  him  to  sup 
'  with  him.  Bacbouc  had  no  doubt  but  his  mistress  had 
contrived  this  invitation;  he  was  overjoyed,  and  put  on 
his  best  apparel,  to  look  more  amiable  in  her  eyes.  The 
repast  was  a  homely  one,  but  the  tailor  was  too  much  in 
love  to  find  fault  with  it.  When  it  grew  late,  the  miller 
said,  "Brother,  you  had  better  not  go  home  to-night;  I 
will  show  you  a  bed  in  the  mill."  Which  offer  Bacbouo 
thankfully  accepted. 

Early  in  the  morning,  the  miller  went  to  my  brother, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  161 

and  said,  "  Neighbor,  my  male  is  11,  and  I  have  a  great 
deal  of  corn  to  grind  to-day ;  you  will  do  much  kindness  if 
you  will  turn  my  mill  in  her  stead."  Bacbouc,  willing  to 
oblige,  consented.  The  milPer  fastened  the  tackle  to  him 
in  such  a  manner  that  he  could  not  disengage  himself,  and 
then  giving  him  two  or  three  smart  cuts  with  a  horse- 
whip, said,  "  Go,  neighbor ! "  "  Hold ! "  replied  my  brother ; 
"why  do  you  whip  me?"  "'Tis  to  make  you  brisk!" 
said  the  miller,  giving  him  at  the  same  time  a  hearty  cut; 
"  my  mule  is  never  brisk  without  I  whip  her.  Courage, 
neighbor,"  continued  he,  using  the  whip  all  the  time  ;  "you 
perform  admirably  ;  I  shall  always  think  myself  bound  to 
you  for  your  friendly  assistance."  In  short,  the  miller 
drove  poor  Bacbouc  round,  continuing  to  whip  him,  till 
his  strength  was  nearly  exhausted.  His  persecutor  then 
withdrew,  and  the  slave  who  had  fed  his  hopes  appeared 
and  released  him.  She  would  fain  have  persuaded  him 
that  her  mistress  knew  nothing  of  the  treatment  he  had 
received,  and  would  be  exceedingly  sorry  for  it.  Bacbouc 
heard  her  in  silence,  and  crept  home  to  his  house,  smarting, 
fatigued,  ashamed,  and  entirely  cured  of  his  illicit  passicn 
for  his  neighbor's  wife. 

STORY    OP    THE    BARBER'S    SECOND    BROTHER. 

My  second  brother  was  called  Bacbarah.  One  day  an 
old  woman  came  up  to  him,  and  asked  him  in  a  whisper, 
if  he  loved  a  good  treat,  and  could  be  obliging  to  a  fine 
woman.  On  his  answering  yes,  she  said,  "  Follow  me, 
then,  and  I  will  conduct  you  to  both." 

When  she  had  led  him  to  the  saloon  of  a  handsome  pal- 
ace, she  said,  "The  lady  I  shall  introduce  you  to  is  of  ad- 
mirable beauty,  but  of  very  fanciful  humor ;  if  you  agree 
to  submit  to  her  caprice,  I  will  engage  she  will  receive 
you  favorably."  My  brother,  seeing  everything  about  him 
very  elegant,  was  delighted  with  his  good  fortune,  and 
readily  agreed  to  submit  to  whatever  should  be  required 
of  him. 

The  old  woman  made  a  signal,  when  two  slaves  entered 
and  conducted  Bacbarah  to  a  bath.     After  bathing,  they 


168  ARABIAN    NIOHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

presented  him  with  rich  robes,  instead  of  his  own  mean 
apparel ;  and  when  he  was  dressed,  they  led  him  to  a  hall, 
where  they  found  a  lovely  young  lady,  surrounded  by  a 
group  of  merry  slaves,  who  all  endeavored  to  divert  her. 
The  lady  received  him  with  great  respect,  obliged  him  to 
sit  down  by  her,  and  ordered  a  grand  entertainment  to  be 
immediately  served.  At  dinner  she  helped  him  to  the 
nicest  viands  and  choicest  wines ;  when  the  tables  were 
removed,  perfume  and  rose-water  were  thrown  over  him 
by  her  own  hands. 

A  concert  followed  the  repast,  during  which  the  lady 
ogled  the  enraptured  Bacbarah,  till  his  hopes  were  wound 
up  to  the  highest  pitch.  The  lady  observing  this,  called 
for  wine,  and  pretending  to  drink  his  health,  she  put  the 
glass  to  her  lips,  and  then  flung  the  wine  in  his  face. 

My  brother  was  almost  blinded,  and  the  slaves  gathered 
round  him  while  in  this  condition,  some  pinching  him, 
others  filliping  him  by  the  nose,  and  offering  him  a  thou- 
sand affronts.  He  bore  all  this  with  great  good-humor, 
laughing  with  the  company,  as  though  highly  delighted 
with  the  jest.  On  which  the  lady  said,  "  Brother,  you  are 
quite  a  man  to  my  mind  ;  the  complaisance  with  which  you 
submit  to  my  little  fancies,  shall  not  be  forgotten.  —  Take 
the  gentleman  out,"  said  she,  "  and  when  you  have  obeyed 
orders,  bring  him  here  again." 

The  old  woman  led  my  brother  to  an  adjoining  apart- 
ment, where  he  found  several  stout  slaves,  who,  in  spite 
of  his  opposition  and  outcries,  cut  off  his  whiskers  and 
beard,  painted  his  eyebrows,  and  dressed  him  in  the  habit 
of  a  woman.  Bacbarah  was  much  enraged  ;  but  his  con- 
ductress promising  her  lady  would  reward  his  condescen- 
sion, he  suffered  her  to  lead  him  back  to  her  mistress. 

On  his  entrance,  the  young  lady  laughed  till  she  fell 
back  on  her  sofa.  Her  slaves  also  joined  in  the  ridicule, 
dancing  round  him,  by  turns  pushing  him  about  and 
pinching  him,  till  he  was  spent  with  fatigue  and  vexation. 
The  old  woman  at  last  rescued  him,  and  led  him  out  again. 
&he  then  supplied  him  with  wine,  praised  his  complaisance, 
and  told  him  he  had  but  one  more  instance  to  give  of  it. 


A&ABIAN    NIGHT8'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  169 

"  My  mistress,"  continued  she,  "  requires  that  y  3u  strip 
off  your  clothes,  and  pursue  her  from  chamber  to  chamber, 
till  you  catch  her;  that  done,  you  will  be  master  of  your 
own  wishes." 

My  silly  brother,  having  submitted  to  so  many  mortifi- 
cations, was  unwilling  to  lose  the  promised  reward  by 
refusing  one  more  compliance.  He  stripped,  therefore,  as 
required ;  and  all  the  doors  of  the  apartments  being  thrown 
open,  he  pursued  the  lady  three  times  round  them.  At 
last  she  took  shelter  in  a  dark  passage.  Bacbarah  fol- 
lowed her  with  alacrity,  but  the  darkness  obliged  him  to 
proceed  slowly.  She  regained  the  apartments  by  a  private 
passage ;  while  my  brother  crept  on  till  he  perceived  a 
light,  which  he  had  no  sooner  reached,  than  a  door  shut 
violently  behind  him,  and  he  found  himself  in  one  of  the 
obscure  streets  of  the  city. 

A  crowd  soon  gathered  around  him,  and  his  strange 
appearance,  almost  naked,  his  eyebrows  painted,  and  with- 
out beard  or  mustachios,.  rendered  him  a  fair  object  of 
ridicule.  They  shouted  after  him,  and  pelted  him.  It 
would  have  been  well  for  poor  Bacbarah,  if  his  misfortunes 
had  ended  here  ;  but  one  of  the  magistrates  passing  by,  and 
seeing  the  tumult,  inquired  the  cause  of  it.  My  brother's 
figure  was  too  indecent  to  pass  unpunished.  The  magistrate 
concluded  his  frolic  by  ordering  him  a  hundred  blows  on 
the  feet,  and  banishing  him  from  the  city. 

THE    STORY    OF   THE    BARBER'S    THIRD    BROTHER. 

My  third  brother's  name  was  Bacbac ;  he  was,  unfortu- 
nately, blind,  and  so  poor  that  he  was  obliged  to  beg  for 
his  support.  He  had  a  custom  of  knocking  at  any  door 
be  came  to,  and  not  answering  till  it  was  opened  to  him. 
One  da}T,  having  knocked  a  long  time  at  a  door,  though 
often  called  out  to,  the  master  of  the  house  at  last  opened 
it,  and  asked  him  what  he  wanted.  "  That  you  will  re- 
lieve my  necessities,"  replied  Bacbac;  "I  am  blind,  and 
cannot  earn  a  maintenance."  "  If  you  are  blind,"  said  the 
man,  "give  me  your  hand."  Bacbac  did  so;  and  the  man 
led  him   up-stairs  to  a  chamber.     My  brother   beo-an   to 

15 


170  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

hope  for  a  bountiful  alms,  when  the  man  let  go  of  his  hand 
and  said,  "Alas,  poor  man,  I  can  give  you  nothing !  I  can 
only  pray  God  to  restore  your  sight."  "You  might  have 
told  me  so  at  the  door,"  replied  my  brother,  testily,  "  and 
not  given  me  the  trouble  of  coming  up  hither."  "And 
why,  fool,"  said  the  other,  "  do  you  not  answer  when  you 
are  called  to,  and  not  give  people  the  trouble  of  coming  to 
you?  Begone,  I  will  not  give  you  anything."  "At  least 
you  will  lead  me  to  the  door?"  said  Bacbac.  "  Not  I,  in- 
deed," replied  the  man  ;  "  the  stairs  are  before  you  ;  get  out 
as  you  can."  My  brother,  in  attempting  to  return,  fell 
down  the  stairs,  and  was  much  bruised  ;  he  recovered  the 
door  with  difficulty,  where  he  sat  down  complaining  of 
the  ill  treatment  he  had  received. 

Two  other  blind  men,  companions  of  my  brother,  coming 
by,  stopped  to  condole  with  him;  after  which  they  all 
agreed  to  sup  together  at  Bacbac's  house.  The  man  who 
had  served  my  brother  this  scurvy  trick  was  a  sharping 
fellow.  He  had  been  listening  and  laughing  at  my  brother 
during  his  complaint,  but  when  he  heard  them  talk  of 
supping  together,  and  something  said  of  sharing  some 
money,  he  resolved  to  go  along  with  them.  Accordingly 
he  followed,  and  entered  the  house  with  them  unperceived. 
As  soon  as  they  had  shut  the  door,  they  began  to  feel 
about  with  their  sticks  to  discover  if  any  one  had  intruded 
among  them ;  this  perplexed  the  sharper  much,  till,  as  he 
was  striving  to  avoid  them,  he  espied  a  rope  hanging  from 
the  ceiling.  As  he  was  an  active  fellow,  he  easily  jumped 
up,  caught  hold  of  it,  and  hung  by  it  until  they  had  finished 
their  search. 

The  blind  men  then  began  to  talk  of  their  affairs.  Bac- 
bac produced  a  large  bag  of  cash,  out  of  which  he  gave 
the  others  ten  drachms  each,  and  took  the  same  sum  him- 
self. "  There  now  remain,"  said  he,  "  ten  thousand  drachms, 
which  we  will  weigh  or  tell,  if  you  desire  it."  His  com- 
panions declared  they  were  fully  satisfied,  on  which  he 
tied  up  the  bag  and  put  it  away.  They  fhen  produced  ths 
provisions  which  had  been  given  them  during  the  day. 
The  sharper  sat  himself  down   beside   my  brother,  and 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS.  171 

began  to  pick  out  the  nicest  bits  and  eat  them.  But  what- 
ever care-he  took,  my  brother  heard  his  chaps  going,  an  d  cried 
out,  "We  are  undone!  there  is  a  stranger  among  us!" 
Sa}'ing  this,  he  seized  the  sharper,  and  began  to  beat  him, 
crying  out,  "Thieves!"  The  other  blind  men  also  fell 
upon  him ;  but  the  sharper,  who  was  a  stout  young  fellow, 
and  had  the  advantage  of  his  sight,  dealt  his  blows  about 
among  the  blind  men  very  severely,  crying  out  "  Thieves!" 
loader  than  any  of  them. 

The  uproar  speedily  brought  in  the  neighbors,  who, 
having  parted  the  combatants,  demanded  the  cause  of  the 
quarrel.  Bacbac  cried  out,  "  Gentlemen,  this  man  is  a 
thief,  and  has  crept  in  among  us,  to  rob  us  of  the  little 
money  we  have  got."  The  sharper,  who,  as  soon  as  the 
neighbors  came  in,  had  shut  his  eyes  and  feigned  himself 
also  blind,  cried  out,  "  He  is  a  liar.  I  swear  to  you  by  the 
life  of  the  caliph,  that  I  am  their  companion  ;  and  they 
refuse  to  give  me  my  share ;  they  have  all  three  fallen 
upon  me,  and  I  demand  justice." 

The  neighbors  considered  the  matter  as  too  serious  a 
business  for  them  to  settle  ;  they  therefore  conveyed  them 
before  a  magistrate.  As  soon  as  they  came  into  his  pres- 
ence, the  sharper  cried  out,  "  Yenerable  sir,  we  are  all 
guilty  of  a  great  offence,  but  having  taken  an  oath  not  to 
confess  unless  we  are  bastinadoed,  by  that  means  only  can 
you  come  at  the  truth."  The  magistrate  would  not  heat 
a  word  from  either  of  the  others,  but  immediately  put  him 
under  that  discipline. 

The  sharper  had  the  courage  to  bear  twenty  or  thirty 
blows,  when,  as  if  overcome  with  pain,  he  opened  one  eye, 
and  presently  after  the  other,  crying  out  for  mercy.  The 
judge  suspended  the  punishment,  and  demanded  by  what 
miracle  he  had  so  suddenly  recovered  his  sight.  "If,  sir," 
said  he,  "you  will  pardon  me,  and  as  a  pledge  intrust  me 
with  your  seal  ring,  I  will  make  an  important  discovery." 
The  judge  consented,  and  gave  him  the  ring.  "  Sir,"  said 
the  sharper,  "we  are  none  of  us  blind,  but  feign  ourselves 
so,  by  which  means  we  enter  people's  houses,  and  play 
many  bad  tricks  unsispected.     "We  have  amassed  by  our 


172  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

rogueries  the  sura  of  ten  thousand  drachms,  whi«>h  you 
will  find  concealed  in  a  cupboard  in  the  house  we  camo 
from.  This  evening  I  demanded  my  share,  and  declared  I 
would  leave  off  so  infamous  a  way  of  life  ;  and  it  was  on 
this  account  that  they  fell  upon  me  and  beat  me." 

The  magistrate  sent  and  searched  for  the  money,  which 
being  found,  confirmed  the  sharper's  testimony.  The 
judge,  in  a  rage,  ordered  the  blind  men  to  be  bastinadoed 
till  they  opened  their  eyes.  In  vain  they  protested  it  was 
utterly  impossible  for  them  to  do  so;  in  vain  they  took 
Heaven  to  witness  that"  their  accuser  was  a  cheat  and  a 
liar  ;  they  received  each  two  hundred  blows,  the  sharper 
all  the  while  exhorting  them  to  open  their  eyes  and 
shorten  their  punishment. 

The  judge  finding  after  so  severe  a  chastisement  that 
they  still  appeared  as  before,  and  continued  to  assert  their 
innocence,  began  to  hesitate.  He  ordered  the  executioner 
to  stop,  and  contented  himself  with  banishing  them  from 
the  city,  after  having  given  one  fourth  of  their  money  to 
the  sharper,  and  confiscated  the  rest. 

THE    STORY    OP   THE    BARBER'S    FOURTH    BROTHER. 

Alcouz  was  the  name  of  my  fourth  brother.  He  was  a 
butcher  by  profession.  One  day,  an  old  man,  with  a  long 
white  beard,  came  and  bought  some  meat  of  him.  The 
money  with  which  he  paid  him  was  so  fresh  and  well 
coined,  that  my  brother  laid  it  apart  by  itself.  The  same 
old  man  came  every  day  for  a  considerable  time,  and  always 
paid  for  his  meat  in  the  same  sort  of  specie,  which  Alcouz 
as  regularly  put  apart  from  his  other  cash. 

At  length,  having  occasion  to  buy  some  sheep,  he  was 
obliged  to  use  this  fine  money;  but  on  opening  his  chest, 
instead  of  cash,  he  saw  only  a  parcel  of  leaves  clipped 
round  *o  the  size  of  specie.  My  brother  was  alarmed  at 
this  phenomenon.  He  ran  out  to  his  neighbors,  weeping, 
and  -was  beginning  to  tell  them  what  had  befallen  him, 
when  he  saw  the  old  man  coming  toward  them.  He  ran 
up  to  him,  and  took  him  by  the  collar,  crying  out,  "  Help, 
Muss al mans,  hear  how  wickedly  this  old  fellow  has  de- 
frauded me  I " 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  173 

The  old  man  stood  with  great  unconcern,  while  my 
brother  related  his  case  to  the  by-standers.  When  he  had 
finished  his  story,  the  old  man  said  to  him  in  a  haughty 
dtyle,  "  You  would  act  wisely  to  let  me  go,  and  not  compel 
me  to  expose  you  as  you  deserve  for  thus  publicly  affront- 
ing me."  Alcouz  defied  and  threatened  him;  on  which 
the  old  man  replied,  "  You  will  have  me  tell  it,  then  V  and 
turning  to  the  people,  "  Know,"  said  he,  "  my  friends,  this 
fellow,  instead  of  selling  you  mutton,  sells  you  man's  flesh. 
At  this  moment  there  is  a  man  with  his  throat  cut,  hung 
up  in  his  shop  like  a  sheep !" 

My  brother  had  just  before  killed  a  sheep,  dressed  it, 
and  hung  it  up  as  usual.  He  protested  what  the  old  man 
said  was  false;  but  the  mob  being  prejudiced  against  him 
by  this  accusation,  would  go  to  his  shop,  and  search  it. 
They  found  there,  as  they  thought,  a  man  murdered  and 
hung  up  as  mutton  ;  for  the  old  man,  who  was  a  magician, 
deceived  the  eyes  of  the  people,  as  he  did  those  of  my 
brother  when  he  made  him  take  leaves  instead  of  money. 
The  rage  of  the  multitude  was  so  great  against  Alcouz, 
that  they  dismissed  the  magician,  who  got  away  as  fast 
as  he  could ;  and  every  one  was  eager  to  chastise  my  un- 
fortunate brother.  They  conveyed  him  before  the  judge 
of  the  police,  where  a  great  number  were  ready  to  declare 
his  guilt  on  oath.  As  Alcouz,  notwithstanding,  strenu- 
ously asserted  his  innocence,  the  judge  sent  some  of  his 
officers  with  the  accusers,  to  bring  the  body  of  the  mur- 
dered man  before  him  ;  but  when  they  came  to  the  shop, 
they  found  only  the  carcass  of  a  sheep. 

When  this  account  was  brought  to  the  magistrate,  he 
was  confounded,  nor  knew  how  to  determine.  As  the 
body  was  not  found,  he  would  not  put  my  brother  to 
death  ;  but  as  many  witnesses  protested  that  they  had 
seen  a  man  slaughtered  in  the  shop,  he  ordered  him  five 
hundred  stripes,  confiscated  his  effects,  and  banished  him 
from  the  city. 

Poor  Alcouz  left  Bagdad  by  night,  and  the  next  evening 
drew  near  another  town  where  he  was  unknown;  as  he 
advanced  toward  the  gate,  he  heard  a  great  noise  of  horse 
16* 


1*74  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

men  behind  him.  After  what  had  befallen  him,  he  dreaded 
everything.  He  took  it  into  his  head  that  these  men  were 
pursuing  him,  and  to  avoid  them  he  entered  into  a  court- 
yard of  a  great  house,  and  endeavored  to  hide  himself. 
Two  of  the  servants  saw  him,  and  when  the  unlucky  Al- 
couz  had  taken  possession  of  his  hiding-place,  they  seized 
him  as  a  thief,  who  had  concealed  himself  there  with  the 
intent  to  rob  their  master.  They  disregarded  his  protes- 
tations of  innocence,  and  hurried  him  before  a  magistrate, 
who  ordered  him  a  hundred  stripes  on  suspicion  ;  but  when 
they  had  made  bare  his  back,  and  saw  the  marks  of  his 
former  flagellation,  the  judge  concluded  he  was  some  des- 
perate rogue  who  had  been  deservedly  punished  elsewhere ; 
he  doubled,  therefore,  the  number  of  stripes,  and  banished 
him  from  that  town  also,  on  pain  of  death.  Poor  Alcouz 
could  scarcely  support  his  second  misfortune,  and  would 
certainly  have  sunk  under  it,  if  I  had  not  heard  of  his 
afflictions,  and  succored  him. 

THE    STORY   OP    THE    BARBER'S   FIFTH    BROTHER. 

Alnaschar,  my  fifth  brother,  was  very  lazy,  and  of  course 
wretchedly  poor.  On  the  death  of  our  father,  we  divided 
his  property,  and  each  of  us  received  a  hundred  drachms 
of  silver  for  his  share.  Alnaschar,  who  hated  labor,  laid 
out  his  money  in  fine  glasses,  and  having  displayed  his 
stock  to  the  best  advantage  in  a  large  basket,  he  took  his 
stand  in  the  market-place,  with  his  back  against  the  wall, 
waiting  for  customers.  In  this  posture  he  indulged  a  rev- 
ery,  talking  aloud  to  himself  as  follows:  "This  glass  cost 
me  a  hundred  drachms  of  silver,  which  is  all  I  have  in  the 
world.  I  shall  make  two  hundred  by  retailing  it,  and  of 
these  very  shortly  four  hundred.  It  will  not  be  long  before 
these  produce  four  thousand.  Money,  they  say,  begets 
money.  I  shall  soon  therefore  be  possessed  of  eight  thou- 
sand, and  when  these  become  ten  thousand,  I  will  no  longer 
be  a  glass-seller.  I  will  trade  in  pearls  and  diamonds;  and 
as  I  shall  become. rich  apace,  I  will  have  a  splendid  palace, 
a  great  estate,  slaves,  eunuchs,  and  horses ;  I  will  not,  how- 
ever, leave  traffic  till  1  have  acquired  a  hundred  thousand 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  115 

drachms.  Then  I  shall  he  as  great  as  a  prince,  and  will 
assume  manners  accordingly. 

"  I  will  demand  the  daughter  of  the  grand  vizier  in 
marriage,  who,  no  doubt,  will  be  glad  of  an  alliance  with 
a  man  of  my  consequence^  The  marriage  ceremony  shall 
be  performed  with  the  utmost  splendor  and  magnificence. 
As  soon  lb  I  am  married,  I  will  present  the  lady  with  ten 
young  black  eunuchs,  the  handsomest  that  can  be  procured. 
I  will  have  my  horse  clothed  with  the  richest  housings, 
ornamented  with  diamonds  and  pearls,  and  will  be  at- 
tended by  a  number  of  slaves,  all  richly  dressed,  when  I 
go  to  the  vizier's  palace  to  conduct  my  wife  thence  to  my 
own.  The  vizier  shall  receive  me  with  great  pomp,  and 
shall  give  me  the  right  hand  and  place  me  above  himself, 
to  do  me  the  more  honor.  On  our  return,'I  will  appoint 
two  of  my  handsomest  slaves  to  throw  money  among  the 
populace,  that  every  one  may  speak  well  of  my  generosity. 

"  When  we  arrive  at  my  own  palace,  I  will  take  great 
state  upon  me,  and  hardly  speak  to  my  wife.  She  shall 
dress  herself  in  all  her  oimaments,  and  stand  before  me  as 
beautiful  as  the  full  moon,  but  I  will  not  look  at  her.  Her 
slaves  shall  draw  near,  and  entreat  me  to  cast  my  eyes 
upon  her ;  which,  after  much  supplication,  I  will  deign  to 
do,  though  with  great  indifference.  I  will  not  suffer  her 
to  come  out  of  her  apartment  without  my  leave  ;  and  when 
I  have  a  mind  to  visit  her  there,  it  shall  be  in  a  manner 
that  will  make  her  respect  me.  Thus  will  I  begin  early 
to  teav:h  her  what  she  is  to  expect  the  rest  of  her  life. 

"  "When  her  mother  comes  to  visit  her,  she  will  intercede 
with  me  for  her.  '  Sir,'  she  will  say,  (for  she  will  not  dare 
to  call  me  son,  for  fear  of  offending  me  by  so  much  famil- 
iarity,) '  do  not,  I  beseech,  treat  my  daughter  with  scorn ; 
she  is  as  beautiful  as  an  Houri,  and  entirely  devoted  to 
you.'  But  my  mother-in-law  may  as  well  hold  her  peace, 
for  I  will  take  no  notice  of  what  she  says.  She  will  then 
pour  out  some  wine  into  a  goblet,  and  give  it  to  my  wife, 
saying,  '  Present  it  to  your  lord  and  husband  ;  he  will  not 
surely  be  so  cruel  as  to  refuse  it  from  so  fair  a  hand.'  My 
wife  will  then  come  \*ith  the  glass,  and  stand  trembling 


i76  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

before  me;  and  when  she  finds  that  I  do  not  look  on  her, 
but  continue  to  disdain  ber,  she  will  kneel  and  entreat  me 
to  accept  it;  but  I  will  continue  inflexible.  At  last,  re- 
doubling her  tears,  she  will  rise  and  put  the  goblet  to  my 
lips;  when,  tired  with  her  importunities,  I  will  dart  a  ter- 
rible look  at  her,  and  give  her  such  a  push  with  my  foot 
as  will  spurn  her  from  me"  —  Alnaschar  was  so  interested 
in  this  imaginary  grandeur,  that  he  thrust  forth  his  foot 
to  kick  the  lady,  and  by  that  means  overturned  his  glasses, 
and  broke  them  into  a  thousand  pieces. 

A  tailor,  whose  shop  was  near  him,  having  heard  his 
soliloquy,  laughed  heartily  when  he  saw  the  basket  fall. 
"  What  a  slave  you  are,"  said  he  to  my  brother,  "  to  treat 
such  a  lovely  bride  so  cruelly  !  Were  I  the  vizier,  your 
father-in-law,  I  would  order  you  a  hundred  lashes  with  a 
bull's  pizzle,  and  send  you  through  the  town  with  your 
character  written  on  your  forehead." 

Alnaschar  wanted  not  the  raillery  of  his  neighbor  to 
make  him  repent  his  absurd  behavior.  When  he  looked 
on  the  fragments  of  his  brittle  ware,  so  foolishly  demol- 
ished, he  was  almost  distracted ;  he  heat  his  breast,  tore 
his  hair,  and  his  outcries  soon  gathered  a  crowd  about  him. 
A.  lad}",  passing  by,  inquired  the  cause  of  the.  tumult ;  and 
being  told  that  a  poor  man  had  lost  all  his  substance  by 
the  fall  of  his  basket  of  glass,  she  kindly  gave  him  a  sum 
equal  to  what  he  had  laid  out  in  his  goods. 

Alnaschar  returned  home  rejoicing,  and  blessing  his  bene- 
factress. He  had  scarcely  arrived,  when  an  old  woman 
came  to  his  door,  and  requested  he  would  permit  her  to 
come  in  and  wash  before  she  went  to  the  mosque  to  pray- 
ers. After  she  had  performed  the  ceremony  of  ablution, 
she  entered  into  conversation  with  my  brother,  and  tola 
him  that  in  return  for  his  civility  she  would  introduce 
him  to  her  lady,  a  woman  of  great  beauty  and  fortune, 
who  was  disposed  to  marry,  and  would  pay  regard  to  her 
recommendation,  which  she  would  give  to  him.  Alnaschar 
listened  to  this  fable  with  attention;  and  being  of  a  san- 
guine temperament,  he  begged  the  old  woman  would 
introduce  him  directly ;  which,  after  seeming  hesitation, 
she  consented  to  do 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  177 

My  brother  was  conducted  by  his  guest  to  a  decent 
house,  and  introduced  to  a  young  lady,  who  received  him 
with  civility.  After  some  conversation,  she  arose,  and 
with  a  gracious  smile  told  him  she  liked  his  person  and 
conversation  so  well,  that  she  would  conduct  him  to  a 
repast  in  the  inner  apartment.  Alnaschar,  overjoyed  with 
his  good  fortune,  followed  her  into  another  room,  from 
whence  she  withdrew,  as  she  said,  for  a  short  time.  My 
brother  awaited  her  return  with  impatience;  but  when 
the  door  opened  again,  instead  of  a  beautiful  and  conde- 
scending lady,  there  appeared  a  tall  black  slave,  of  a  fierce 
aspect,  with  a  drawn  scimitar  in  his  hand.  At  the  sight 
of  this  terrific  figure,  the  heart  of  my  brother  sank  within 
him.  Nor  were  his  fears  ill-grounded.  The  black  came 
up  to  him,  and  gave  him  several  severe  cuts.  Alnaschar 
was  so  terrified  that  he  fell  down  in  a  fit.  The  slave  took 
away  the  hundred  drachms  which  the  old  woman  had 
probably  seen  him  receive ;  and  opening  a  trap-door,  threw 
my  brother,  whom  he  supposed  dead,  into  a  place  under- 
ground, among  the  bodies  of  several  people  whom  he  had 
murdered  in  this  manner. 

When  Alnaschar  revived,  and  recollected  his  situation, 
his  first  care  was  to  bind  up  his  wounds,  in  which  he 
succeeded  pretty  well;  he  next  ventured  to  lift  up  the 
trap  in  the  night,  and  by  great  good-fortune  he  made  his 
way  out  of  the  house  unobserved,  and  came  to  me  for 
shelter. 

It  was  nearly  a  month  before  he  was  fully  recovered. 
During  this  time  he  contrived  a  plan  to  be  revenged,  which 
he  executed  in  this  manner:  he  disguised  himself  like  an 
old  woman,  and  took  a  large  purse,  which  he  filled  with 
pieces  of  glass,  and  tied  to  his  girdle.  He  then  took  a 
scimitar,  which  he  concealed  under  his  gown,  and  went 
into  the  most  frequented  parts  of  the  city,  in  hopes  of 
meeting  the  wicked  hag  who  had  enticed  him  into  so 
much  mischief. 

It  was  not  long  before  he  found  her;  when,  counterfeit- 
ing a  woman's  voice,  he  said  to  her,  "  I  am  a  stranger; 
just  arrived,  and  should  be  glad  to  weigh  five  hundred 


178  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

pieces  of  gold,  to  see  if  they  will  pass  here ;  can  you  rec- 
ommend me  to  a  goldsmith?"  "Friend,"  replied  the  old 
woman,  '  you  could  not  have  applied  to  a  more  proper 
person ;  my  son  is  a  goldsmith  ;  come  with  me,  and  he 
shall  weigh  them  for  you  directly."  The  pretended  trav- 
eller agreed  ;  and  the  old  woman  led  him,  as  he  expected, 
to  the  fatal  mansion  whence  he  had  so  narrowly  escaped. 

On  his  arrival  the  black  came  to  him,  and  desired  he 
would  walk  into  an  inner  room  where  the  scales  were. 
Alnaschar  readily  followed  him ;  and  on  entering  the  hall, 
with  one  blow  cut  off  the  head  of  his  treacherous  con- 
ductor. The  old  woman  presently  came  in,  in  high  spirits ; 
but  when  she  saw  what  had  happened,  she  set  up  a  great 
cry,  and  would  have  fled ;  my  brother  prevented  her;  and 
after  reproaching  her  as  she  deserved,  he  put  her  to  death 
and  tumbled  both  the  dead  bodies  through  the  trap-door. 

Alnaschar  spared  the  young  lady,  who  on  her  part 
showed  him  the  several  coffers  full  of  gold  which  these 
wretches  had  so  wickedly  obtained.  This  wealth  he  re- 
solved to  seize ;  and  leaving  the  lady,  he  went  in  search 
of  porters,  with  sacks,  to  remove  it ;  but  she  took  advan- 
tage of  his  absence,  and  on  his  return  the  treasure  was 
gone.  A  great  quantity  of  valuable  movables,  however, 
remained,  with  which  he  loaded  his  porters,  and  carried 
away  a  considerable  booty.  Had  my  brother  been  content 
with  this,  he  had  been  wise  ;  but  being  covetous,  he  paid 
so  many  visits  to  the  house  with  his  porters,  that  the 
curiosity  of  the  neighbors  was  excited.  An  information 
to  the  magistrate  followed ;  all  the  plunder  was  laid  hold 
of  by  him ;  and  poor  Alnaschar  thought  he  was  well  off 
when  the  judge  was  content  with  banishing  him  from  the 
city. 

THE    STORY    OP   THE   BARBER'S    SIXTH   BROTHER. 

Shacabac,  my  youngest  brother,  was  so  poor  that  he 
was  reduced  to  beggary  ;  but  having  some  humor,  he  con 
trived  to  fare  tolerably  well.  It  happened,  one  evening, 
that  he  applied  for  an  alms  at  the  palace  of  a  Barmecide 
when  the  porter  said  to  him,  "Go  in  and  find  out  our 
master;  ho  will  not  send  you  away  dissatisfied." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  179 

Thus  encouraged,  my  brother  entered  the  palace,  and 
strolled  from  room  to  room,  till  he  came  into  a  hall  adorned 
with  paintings  of  gold,  azure  foliage,  and  splendidly  fur- 
nished. At  the  upper  end  of  this  room  he  saw  a  venerable 
man  with  a  long  white  beard,  whose  appearance  carried 
with  it  an  air  of  dignity.  My  brother  concluded,  as  was 
the  truth,  that  it  was  the  master  of  the  house;  he  saluted 
him  therefore  with  the  greatest  respect.  The  Barmecide 
received  him  kindly,  and  asked  him  what  he  wanted. 
Shacabac,  in  an  humble  manner,  related  his  necessities, 
and  besought  relief;  concluding  his  sad  tale  by  declaring 
that  he  had  not  eaten  anything  the  whole  day. 

The  Barmecide,  when  my  brother  had  ended,  put  his 
hands  to  his  garments,  as  if  he  would  have  rent  his  clothes. 
"  Is  it  possible,"  said  he,  "  that  such  a  man  as  you  can  be 
as  poor  as  you  say  ?  This  must  not  be.  But  come,  as 
you  have  not  eaten  to-day,  you  must  be  ready  to  die  with 
hunger.  Ho,  boy !  bring  in  the  water  to  wash  our  hands, 
and  order  supper  immediately."  Shacabac  was  confounded 
at  this  gracious  reception,  and  was  about  to  express  his 
gratitude,  when  the  Barmecide  began  to  rub  his  hands,  as 
though  some  one  poured  water  on  them,  and  invited  my 
brother  to  come  and  wash  with  him.  No  boy  appeared, 
nor  was  there  either  basin  or  water;  yet  my  brother 
thought  he  ought  not,  in  complaisance,  contradict  his 
host ;  he  came  forward,  therefore,  and  did  as  he  did. 

"Come,"  said  the  Barmecide,  "let  us  now  have  supper;" 
and  though  nothing  was  brought,  he  pretended  to  cut,  as 
if  a  dish  of  meat  were  before  him,  and  began  to  chew, 
saying  to  my  brother,  "  Eat,  friend ;  eat  heartily.  You 
said  you  was  hungry,  but  you  proceed  as  if  you  had  no 
appetite."  Shacabac  gave  readily  into  the  joke,  and  imi- 
tating the  Barmecide,  said,  "  You  see,  my  lord,  I  lose  no 
time."  "Boy,"  said  the  old  gentleman,  "bring  us  another 
dish.  Come,  my  good  friend,  taste  of  this  mutton  and 
barley  broth,  unless  you  prefer  part  of  that  goose,  with 
sweet  sauce,  vinegar,  honey,  raisins,  gray  peas,  and  dry 
figs ;  eat,  how  sver,  sparingly  of  it,  as  we  have  a  variety 
of  good  things  to  come."    Shacabac,  fainting  with  hunger, 


180  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

pretended  to  feast  heartily  on  these  invisible  dainties. 
The  Barmeciie  continued  to  call  for  other  dishes,  and 
boasted  much  of  a  lamb  fed  with  pistachio  nuts  :  "  a  dish," 
said  he,  "  you  will  find  at  no  table  but  mine ;  let  me  help 
you  to  some,  and  judge  if  I  have  not  reason  to  praise  it." 
My  brother  made  as  if  he  received  the  lamb,  and  ate  it 
with  great  pleasure.  "  Nothing  can  be  more  delicious," 
said  he;  "your  table,  my  lord,  abounds  with  good  things." 
"  Eat  heartity,  then,"  said  the  Barmecide ;  "  you  cannot 
oblige  me  more."  "You  see,  my  lord,"  replied  my  brother, 
"  how  I  testify  my  approbation." 

An  imaginary  dessert  succeeded.  The  Barmecide  did 
not  fail  to  recommend  the  several  fruits  and  confections. 
Shacabac  extolled  them  yet  more ;  till,  tired  of  moving 
his  jaws  and  having  nothing  to  eat,  he  declared  he  could 
eat  no  more.  "  Let  us  drink  then,"  said  the  Barmecide. 
•'  Bring  some  wine."  "  Excuse  me,  my  lord,"  said  Shaca- 
bac, "I  will  drink  no  wine,  because  it  is  forbidden."  "Too 
are  too  scrupulous,"  replied  his  host;  "you  must  not  refuse 
to  keep  me  company."  "  1  cannot  refuse  your  lordship," 
replied  my  brother,  "but  must  entreat  you  not  to  urge 
the  glass ;  for  I  am  not  accustomed  to  wine,  and  fear  lest 
it  should  betray  me  into  anything  like  disrespect  to  you." 
"  Wine,  here  !  "  called  out  the  Barmecide ;  then  holding 
out  his  hand,  as  if  to  receive  a  bottle,  he  turned  to  my 
brother,  and  seemed  to  fill  him  a  glass,  and  himself  an- 
other. Shacabac  made  as  if  he  took  up  a  glass,  and  bow- 
ing very  low,  he  drank  the  health  of  his  host.  The  Bar- 
mecide continued  to  supply  his  guest  with  imaginary 
bumpers,  till  at  length  my  brother  (weary  of  the  joke,  and 
beginning  to  be  a  little  out  of  humor)  affected  to  be  drunk, 
got  up  from  his  seat,  and  gave  the  Barmecide  so  hearty  a 
box  on  the  ear,  that  he  knocked  him  down.  He  was  about 
to  repeat  the  blow,  but  the  old  gentleman  calling  out,  he 
pretended  to  come  to  himself.  "  You  have  been  so  good, 
my  lord,"  said  he,  "to  admit  your  slave  to  your  table,  and 
to  give  him  a  noble  treat;  but  you  should  not  have  com- 
pelled me  to  drink  wine,  as  I  told  you  I  feared  it  would 
".ause  me  to  misbehave,  which  I  am  exceedingly  sorry  it 
has  done." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  181 

The  Barmecide,  instead  of  being  in  a  rage,  laughed 
heartily.  "  I  have  long  wished,"  said  he,  "for  a  man  of 
your  character;  but  come,  we  will  now  sup  in  good  ear- 
nest." Saying  this,  he  clapped  his  hands,  and  the  servants 
appearing,  he  ordered  supper;  and  the  several  dishes  they 
had  tasted  of  in  fancy  were  really  set  before  them. 

The  old  gentleman,  finding  my  brother  a  man  of  good 
understanding,  as  well  as  of  much  pleasantry,  retained  him 
in  his  service.  For  twenty  years  Shacabac  lived  happy 
in  his  protection  ;  but  then  the  generous  Barmecide  died, 
and  his  estate  being  seized  by  the  caliph,  his  dependants 
were  all  dismissed. 

Shacabac  after  this  undertook  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca. 
The  caravan  he  joined  was  attacked  and  dispersed  by  a 
number  of  Bedouins,  and  my  brother  became  a  slave  to 
one  of  them.  His  afflictions  in  this  situation  were  very 
grievous,  till  at  length  I  heard  of  his  distress,  ransomed 
him,  and  brought  him  home. 

The  sultan  of  Casgar  was  highly  pleased  with  these 
stories,  and  expressed  a  desire  to  see  this  talkative  barber. 
He  was  soon  found  and  introduced  to  the  sultan.  His  ap- 
pearance was  respectable;  he  had  a  pleasant  countenance; 
and  his  long  beard,  as  white  as  snow,  denoted  his  age, 
which  was  upward  of  ninety.  The  prince  received  him 
very  graciously,  but  laughed  at  him  for  his  prattling.  "  It 
would  be  a  bad  time  for  me,"  said  he,  "  to  be  silent  now : 
I  have  heard  the  story  of  little  Hunchback,  and  am  ac- 
quainted with  the  regard  your  majesty  had  for  him ;  I 
beg  I  may  be  permitted  to  examine  the  body." 

After  having  surveyed  it  some  time,  the  barber  fell  into 
a  great  fit  of  laughter,  without  considering  the  respect 
due  to  the  sultan.  "Silence,  man,"  said  the  prince  to  him; 
"  why  do  you  laugh  so  ?  " 

"  I  swear  by  your  majesty's  good  humors,"  answered 
the  barber,  "  that  this  is  a  very  extraordinary  business. 
Hunchback  is  not  dead.  If  I  do  not  immediately  restore 
bim,  I  am  content  to  pass  for  the  prattling  fellow  I  have 
been  veryunnandsomely  called."  Saying  this,  he  put  an 
instrum<nt  down  Hunchback's  throat,  and  pulled  out  a 
lfi 


182  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

bit  of  fish  and  bone,  which  he  showed  to  the  sultan  ;  he 
then  took  out  a  vial  of  balsam,  with  which  he  rubbed 
Hunchback's  neck,  who  presently  sneezed,  and  gave  other 
signs  of  life,  and  in  a  short  time  was  perfectly  recovered. 
The  sultan  was  astonished  at  this  wonderful  cure.  He 
formed  a  very  different  opinion  of  the  barber  from  what 
he  had  before  conceived ;  and  engaged  him  in  his  service, 
as  a  man  of  very  singular  abilities.  Before  he  dismissed 
the  tailor,  the  Jewish  doctor,  the  purveyor,  and  the  Chris- 
tian merchant,  he  ordered  each  of  them  to  be  clothed,  in 
his  presence,  with  a  rich  robe  of  honor,  as  a  recompense 
for  their  integrity  and  their  sufferings. 

THE    HISTORY  OF  ABOULHASSEN  ALI  EBN  BECAR,  AND   SCHEM- 
SELNIHAR,  FAVORITE  OF  THE  CALIPH  HAROUN  ALRASCHID. 

The  king  of  the  isle  of  Ebene  having  the  audacity  to 
rebel  against  the  illustrious  Haroun  Alraschid,  to  whom 
he  was  tributary,  the  caliph  sent  a  powerful  army  to  chas- 
tise him.  The  event  showed  the  rashness  of  the  insur- 
gents. The  natives  of  Ebene  were  soon  subdued,  and 
their  king  with  all  his  family,  except  an  infant  daughter, 
fell  in  the  dispute. 

The  princess,  too  young  to  be  sensible  of  her  misfortune, 
was  brought  to  Bagdad,  and  educated  in  the  harem  of  the 
caliph.  Nature  had  endowed  her  with  every  amiable 
qualification  ;  and  the  utmost  pains  were  taken  in  her  edu- 
cation. As  she  approached  the  age  of  a  woman,  her 
beauty  increased,  and  received  such  lustre  from  her  vi- 
vacity, her  wit,  and  elegant  accomplishments,  that  she 
became  irresistible. 

The  caliph  ever  treated  her  with  great  tenderness;  aer 
sprightly  yet  artless  carriage,  her  gentle  manners  and  be- 
•nevolent  disposition,  gained  exceedingly  on  his  affections; 
and  when  time  had  ripened  the  beauties  of  her  person, 
the  amorous  prince  declared  his  intention  of  sharing  with 
her  the  throne  of  Persia. 

Schemselnihar  heard  this  determination  of  the  caliph 
with  pleasure.  She  had  been  accustomed  to  his  endear- 
ments from  her  infancy;    she  felt  a  filial  affection  for  him, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  183 

which  she  supposed  was  love.  The  caliph,  though  four 
times  her  age,  was  pleasant  and  agreeable.  As  she  was 
debarred  the  sight  of  all  men,  except  him  and  his  attend- 
ants, she  tbought  him  tbe  most  amiable  of  mankind.  If 
she  reflected  on  her  approaching  nuptials  without  desire, 
it  was  without  disgust  also.  Matters  were  in  this  situa- 
tion, when  business  of  emei^gency  obliged  tbe  caliph  to 
leave  the  capital  for  a  short  time. 

The  affairs  of  the  harem  were  managed  by  an  old  slave 
named  Fatima.  It  was  a  part  of  her  duty  to  provide 
everything  necessary,  in  tbe  city  ;  and  the  person  she 
used  to  apply  to  for  what  she  wanted,  was  Ebn  Thaher,  a 
considerable  merchant  of  great  integrity.  Fatima  had 
attended  on  Schemselnihar  from  her  infancy,  and  was  at- 
tached to  her  by  the  most  tender  affection.  She  used 
often  to  speak  of  her  to  Ebn  Thaher,  with  the  fondness  of 
a  mother;  and  had  as  often  occasion  to  praise  the  obliging 
disposition  of  the  merchant  to  Schemselnihar. 

A  few  days  after  the  departure  of  the  caliph,  a  strange 
whim  seized  the  young  lady.  She  had  a  desire  to  see  the 
city,  and  besought  Fatima  to  take  her  with  her  the  next 
time  she  went  thither.  Fatima,  little  apprehending  any 
bad  consequence,  fondly  consented,  and  apprised  the  mer- 
chant that  on  an  appointed  day  the  caliph's  favorite  would 
come  in  private  to  view  the  city,  and  intended  to  repose 
at  his  house. 

Ebn  Thaher  received  her  with  all  possible  respect;  but 
it  so  happened  that,  when  she  arrived,  there  was  with  the 
merchant  a  young  nobleman,  of  the  ancient  royal  family 
of  Persia,  named  Aboulhassen  Ali  Ebn  Becar.  This  prince 
had  received  from  nature  every  advantage  of  body  and 
mind,  nor  had  he  neglected  to  cultivate  them.  Schem- 
selnihar was  struck  with  him  at  first  sight ;  and  when  he 
would  have  modestly  withdrawn,  she  made  signs  to  Fa- 
tima that  she  should  not  let  him  depart.  When  a  colla- 
tion was  brought  in,  the  ladies  unveiled,  and  Aboulhassen 
in  his  turn  was  fascinated  by  the  beauty  of  the  princess, 
l'he  intention  of  viewing  the  city  was  at  an  end.  Schem- 
selnihar, new  to  love,  indulged  sensations  so  delightful,  ana 


184  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

thought  only  how  she  might  make  herself  agreeable  to 
Abouihassfen ;  who,  on  his  part,  became  entirely  enamored. 
They  remained  together  till  evening,  and  parted  with  in- 
expressible reluctance  on  both  sides. 

New  ideas  now  took  possession  of  Schemselnihar,  among 
which  none  so  often  arose  as  an  abhorrence  of  marriage 
with  the  caliph.  She  devoted  herself  to  her  beloved 
Aboulhassen  ;  and  though  she  saw  no  probability  of  being 
united  to  him,  yet  she  determined  to  encourage  that  hope. 
The  indulgent  Fatima  reasoned  with  her  against  so  im- 
proper an  attachment,  but  misled  by  her  fondness  for  the 
princess,  she  repeatedly  permitted  interviews  between  the 
two  lovers  at  the  house  of  Ebn  Thaher.  The  merchant 
also,  though  he  pointed  out  to  the  prince  the  folly  and 
danger  of  his  pursuit,  was  yet  weak  enough  to  promote 
the  meetings  of  the  young  couple. 

The  caliph  had  put  Schemselnihar  in  possession  of  the 
apartments  belonging  to  the  ro}Tal  consort,  and  had  per- 
mitted her  to  select  her  own  attendants.  The  infatuated 
princess  determined  to  give  Aboulhassen  an  entertainment 
worthy  her  love :  and  when  everything  was  ready,  she 
sent  Fatima  to  conduct  him  and  the  merchant  to  partake 
of  it.  The  faithful  slave  executed  her  dangerous  com- 
mission with  dexterity,  and  contrived  to  introduce  them 
unnoticed  within  the  apartments  of  the  princess. 

The  reception  was  magnificent.  A  wonderful  display 
of  diamonds  and  rubies,  fixed  in  burnished  gold,  and  dis- 
posed in  the  most  beautiful  forms,  delighted  the  eye ; 
columns  of  the  rarest  marble  supported  the  dome ;  be- 
tween them  were  placed  vessels  of  agate,  porphyry,  jet, 
jasper,  crystal,  and  other  precious  materials  :  the  floor  was 
covered  with  the  richest  carpeting,  and  the  walks  in  the 
garden p  were  formed  of  little  stones  of  various  colors,  so 
as  to  resemble  the  carpet  in  the  saloon  and  seem  a  con- 
tinuation of  it ;  two  beautiful  canals  watered  the  trees  and 
shrubs,  which  were  of  the  rarest  kind,  and  planted  with 
great  judgment :  their  odors  gratified  the  smell,  as  the 
charming  con oerts  of  the  singing-birds  did  the  ear;  in  a 
word,  every  thing  was  lo  be  found  which  luxury  or  gran 
(ieur  fo'iitd  possibly  desire. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  185 

In  this  terrestrial  paradise  the  love-sick  Schemselnihar- 
received  her  equally  enamored  Aboulhassen,  unmindful  of 
her  engagement  with  the  commander  of  the  Faithful, 
whom  she  now  began  to  think  of  with  terror  and  abhor- 
rence ;  nor  did  the  prince  suffer  the  fear  of  future  evils,  or 
of  present  danger,  to  damp  the  delight  he  felt  at  being 
received  with  so  much  distinction  by  the  object  of  his 
vows.  The  entertainment  was  sumptuous  beyond  descrip- 
tion, and  was  followed  b}^  an  admirable  concert;  after 
which  Aboulhassen  and  Schemselnihar  sung  to  each  other 
by  turns  extempore  verses,  descriptive  of  their  mutual 
affection,  which  they  neither  wished  to  restrain  nor  con- 
ceal. They  plighted  vows  of  unceasing  constancy,  and 
seemed,  by  seizing  the  present  moment,  to  snatch  those 
joys  from  the  power  of  fortune  before  a  fatal  interruption 
should  put  an  end  to  them  forever. 

That  event  was  even  now  come.  Their  caresses  were 
disturbed  by  a  message  to  Schemselnihar,  announcing  the 
arrival  of  the  caliph,  and  his  intention  of  presently  visit- 
ing her.  The  distress  of  the  lovers  could  only  be  equalled 
by  the  despair  of  Ebn  Thaher,  who  gave  himself  up  for 
lost.  Fatima  alone  had  recollection.  She  ordered  the 
slaves  immediately  to  prepare  for  the  reception  of  the 
caliph ;  she  tore  the  lovers  asunder,  and  as  it  was  impos- 
sible to  convey  the  visitors  away,  at  that  time,  without 
discovery,  she  conducted  them  to  a  place  where  they 
might  continue  in  safety. 

By  the  time  the  caliph  arrived  all  was  in  order,  and 
Schemselnihar  tolerably  composed.  Haroun  embraced 
her  with  great  affection ;  and  seeing  everything  set  out 
with  the  utmost  splendor,  made  no  doubt  but  that  she  had 
decorated  the  palace  in  this  manner  for  his  reception.  Ob- 
serving the  saloon  was  shut,  he  asked  the  reason,  when 
Schemselnihar  made  signs  to  have  it  thrown  open.  Im- 
mediately the  grandest  illumination  that  can  be  conceived 
was  discovered.  A  spectacle,  not  more  brilliant  than  un- 
expected, which  the  caliph  received  as  a  proof  of  the  prin- 
cess' attachment  to  him,  but  which  she  had  prepared  for 
a  very  different  pnrpofce. 


186  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

From  the  time  the  saloon  was  thrown  open,  the  prince 
of  Persia  could  see  from  his  hiding-place  everything  that 
passed  in  the  hall ;  and  had  the  torment  of  beholding  his 
beloved  Schemselnihar  obliged  to  receive  the  caresses  of 
his  too  powerful  rival.  Ebn  Thaher  could  with  difficulty 
restrain  his  transports.  At  length  a  concert  commenced, 
in  the  course  of  which  the  princess  addressed  a  most  pas- 
sionate air  to  Aboulhassen,  and  sang  it  with  so  much 
feeling,  that  she  herself  was  overcome  with  it,  and  fainted 
away.  The  caliph,  who  still  applied  everything  that  passed 
to  himself,  was  exceedingly  concerned,  and  busied  himself 
very  earnestly  in  endeavoring  to  restore  her.  At  this 
juncture  Fatima  went  to  dismiss  the  prince  and  his  friend, 
but  had  the  greatest  difficulty  in  effecting  it.  Aboulhassen 
had  sympathized  so  truly  with  the  princess,  that  he  also 
had  fainted ;  and  when  Ebn  Thaher,  at  last,  with  the  as- 
sistance of  Fatima,  got  him  safe  out  of  the  palace  and 
conveyed  him  home,  he  was  obliged  to  be  put  to  bed, 
whence  he  could  not  rise  for  sevei'al  days. 

This  accident  opened  the  eyes  of  Ebn  Thaher.  He  saw 
at  once  the  consequences  of  this  fatal  intrigue ;  and  that 
if  he  could  not  persuade  the  prince  of  Persia  to  drop  all 
thoughts  of  carrying  it  on,  he  had  but  one  way  to  escape 
inevitable  l'uin.  As  soon  as  the  prince  was  tolerably  re- 
covered, the  merchant,  in  the  most  animated  manner, 
pointed  out  to  him  the  certain  destruction  he  would  bring 
not  only  on  himself,  but  on  the  lovely  Schemselnihar  also, 
if  he  did  not  subdue  his  ill-placed  passion.  Ebn  Thaher 
reasoned,  but  Aboulhassen  loved.  Deaf  as  the  winds  to 
any  advice  that  made  against  his  wishes,  he  declared  that 
no  danger,  however  pressing,  should  make  him  for  one 
moment  cease  to  adore  her.  "  I  know  not  yet,"  continued 
he,  "what  measures  I  can  pursue  to  rescue  my  princess 
from  a  situation  so  terrible  to  us  both ;  but  something  I 
will  attempt ;  and  if  I  perish,  I  shall  have  the  satisfaction 
of  giving  up  my  life  for  one  that  well  deserves  such  a 
sacrifice." 

Ebn  Thaher  was  still  more  alarmed  at  this  conversation. 
He  settled  his  affairs  with  all  possible  dispatch;  and  two 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS.  187 

days  after  he  took  his  family  with  him,  and  set  off  for 
Balsora,  under  pretence  of  business  which  would  oblige 
him  to  reside  there  for  some  time.  The  merchant,  by  this 
prudent  measure,  secured  himself;  and,  in  fact,  did  all  be 
could  to  save  the  lovers.  As  all  intercourse  was  now  at 
an  end,  they  would  probably  have  submitted  reluctantly 
to  their  destiny,  if  an  accident  had  not, enabled  them  to 
continue  their  correspondence. 

Opposite  Ebn  Thaher's  house  there  lived  a  jeweller  who, 
having  little  business  to  employ  him,  bestowed  much  of 
his  attention  on  his  neighbors.  Shrewd,  artful,  and  ava- 
ricious, he  sought  to  turn  everything  to  his  own  advan- 
tage, and  having  a  pleasant  carriage,  which  hid  his  vices, 
he  was  but  too  often  successful. 

This  man  had  not  been  a  careless  observer  of  what 
passed  at  Ebn  Thaher's.  He  noticed  that  Fatima  and 
the  prince  of  Persia  met  continually  there  ;  and  that  the 
former  frequently  brought  another  woman  with  her,  who, 
though  closely  veiled,  had  an  air  of  distinction,  and  was 
manifestly  much  }7ounger.  The  illness  of  the  prince,  the 
distress  of  the  merchant,  he  had  not  failed  to 'remark. 
Being  a  little  acquainted  with  Ebn  Thaher,  he  ventured 
to  question  him  on  these  subjects  ;  and  though  the  mer- 
chant was  careful,  and  almost  silent,  yet  his  confusion  and 
the  little  he  did  say,  afforded  some  information  to  his  busy 
neighbor.  Ebn  Thaher,  leaving  Bagdad  abruptly,  con- 
firmed this  sagacious  fellow  in  his  opinion,  that  the  prince 
had  dared  to  intrigue  in  the  harem  of  the  caliph  ;  and  that 
the  amour  was  carried  on  by  Fatima  and  the  merchant. 

In  the  meantime  the  situation  of  the  lovers  was  truly 
pitiabfe.  Aboulhassen,  tormented  by  a  contrariety  of  pas- 
sions, was  too  ill  to  leave  his  house ;  and  the  princess  had 
no  other  consolation,  under  a  severe  indisposition,  but 
that  it  prevented  the  caliph  from  urging  a  completion  of 
their  nuptials.  At  length  impatience  to  hear  from  her 
lover  made  her  send  Fatima  to  Ebn  Thaher's  to  inquire 
after  him.  The  trusty  slave  was  exceedingly  shocked  to 
find  the  house  shut  up;  and  was  at  a  loss  which  way  to 
act,  when  she  saw  the  jeweller  make  signs  for  her  to  en^er 


188  ABABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

his  house.  He  told  her  that  Ebn  Thaher  bad  left  Eagdad 
in  haste,  and  that  the  prince  of  Persia  was  ill.  Then,  by 
making  the  most  of  what  he  did  know,  and  affecting  to 
know  more  than  he  did.  he  easily  obtained  from  the  af- 
frighted and  simple  Fatinla  all  the  particulars  of  the  affair. 

The  sordid  jeweller  debated  with  himself  whether  he 
should  not  disclose  the  business  to  the  caliph ;  but  after  a 
little  pause,  recollecting  that  the  prince  of  Persia  was  very 
rich,  and  that  Schemselnihar  could  command  unlimited 
treasure,  he  was  not  long  at  a  loss  which  side  to  choose. 
He  concluded  the  lovers  would  pay  more  liberally  for  his 
assistance  in  carrying  on  their  amour  than  the  caliph  would 
for  a  disagreeable  piece  of  intelligence.  He  declared  him- 
self, therefore,  ready  to  supply  the  place  of  Ebn  Thaher, 
and  with  equal  zeal,  but  more  courage,  to  promote  the 
wishes  of  the  lovers. 

Fatima  resolved  to  venture,  for  once,  to  go  to  the  house 
of  the  prince  of  Persia,  directing  the  jeweller  to  follow 
her  thither.  Aboulhassen  was  rejoiced  to  see  the  faithful 
slave,  but  his  joy  was. of  short  duration.  He  was  dis. 
tressed  beyond  measure  for  the  illness  of  his  mistress;  and 
when  he  was  acquainted  with  the  desertion  of  Ebn  Tha- 
her, he  was  overwhelmed  with  affliction.  Eatima  gave 
him  every  consolation  in  her  power;  and  when  he  had 
listened  to  her  a  while,  she  concluded  with  relating  to  him 
the  offer  of  the  jeweller. 

Despair  compelled  him  to  embrace  this  hazardous  assist- 
ance. The  jeweller  was  introduced  to  him,  and  vowed 
fidelity.  Eatima,  having  settled  in  what  manner  he  was 
to  meet  her,  and  convey  letters  or  messages  between  the 
lovers,  took  her  leave  of  the  prince  and  returned  to  the 
palace. 

For  some  time,  by  means  of  the  zeal  and  activity  of  the 
new  emissary,  a  regular  correspondence  took  place  between. 
Aboulhassen  and  the  princess.  The  avarice  of  the  jewel- 
ler was  gratified  beyond  his  hopes;  he  scrupled,  therefore, 
no  danger  to  oblige  his  benefactors.  Matters  could  not 
remain  long  in  this  undecided  situation.  Schemselnihar 
daily  grew  better;   and  the  caliph,  who  had  been  much 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  189 

afflicted  at  her  illness,  began  to  congratulate  her  on  her 
recovery.  The  preparations  for  the  royal  marriage  were 
no  longer  suspended;  and  to  prevent  its  taking  place,  the 
lovers  resolved  on  elopement. 

The  jeweller  was  dh-ected  to  take  a  house  in  an  obscure 
part  of  the  town,  without  the  gates,  where  they  proposed 
to  continue  till  the  fury  of  the  search  was  over;  as  he  had 
great  reason  to  fear  he  should  be  suspected,  when  the 
prince  and  princess  absconded,  he  determined  to  accom- 
pany his  patrons  in  their  flight.  His  wealth  by  this  time 
was  considerable;  and  he  could  not  bear  to  leave  it  to  the 
care  of  others  ;  he  packed  it  up,  therefore,  in  small  bundles, 
and  removed  it  from  his  own  habitation  to  the  house  he 
had  taken  for  the  prince. 

On  the  evening  of  their  intended  escape,  as  soon  as  it 
was  dark,  Schemselnihar  and  her  favorite  contrived,  with 
great  difficulty,  to  elude  the  eunuchs  and  leave  the  palace. 
Aboulhassen  and  the  jeweller  were  ready  to  receive  them, 
and  convey  them  to  the  house  prepared  by  the  latter, 
where  they  arrived  unobserved.  But  they  had  scarce 
time  to  congratulate  each  other,  when  the  building  (which 
stood  apart  from  any  other)  was  surrounded  by  a  body  of 
men,  who  broke  open  the  doors;  and  having  plundered  the 
house  of  everything  valuable  (among  which  was  the  whole 
of  the  jeweller's  treasure),  they  seized  the  whole  company 
and  conveyed  them  over  the  river  into  an  adjoining  forest. 

These  men  were  a  banditti  who  harbored  there,  and  had 
by  some  means  obtained  a  knowledge  that  the  jeweller  had 
conveyed  much  wealth  into  a  house  which  stood  alone  and 
convenient  for  their  purpose.  On  their  arrival  at  their 
retreat  they  examined  their  prisoners  separately;  from 
the  prince,  from  Schemselnihar,  and  Fatima,  they  obtained 
no  information  ;  but  the  dastardly  jeweller  confessed  im- 
mediately who  they  were.  The  event  was  not  unfavor- 
able. The  captain  of  the  banditti  had  been  a  slave  of 
Aboulhassen's  father;  as  soon  as  he  heard  that  one  of  his 
prisoners  was  the  prince  of  Persia,  he  set  them  all  at  lib- 
erty, and  ordered  his  comrades  to  convey  them  back  again 
promising  also  to  restore  the  plunder,  as  soon  as  it  could 
be  collected  together. 


190  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

The  banditti  conducted  them  to  the  Tigris,  and  lauded 
them  on  the  side  next  the  city.  But  as  they  were  about 
to  return  to  the  jeweller's  house,  they  fell  in  with  a  brigade 
of  the  city  guard,  who  examined  them  with  great  strict- 
ness, and  were  by  no  means  satisfied  with  their  vague 
manner  of  answering.  They  were  about  to  take  them 
into  custody,  when  Schemselnihar,  seeing  there  was  no 
way  to  escape,  resolved  to  throw  herself  on  the  humanity 
of  the  commander.  She  drew  him  aside  and  declared  who 
she  was.  The  officer  behaved  to  her  with  the  greatest 
respect;  he  ordered  a  boat  to  convey  her  and  her  slave  to 
the  water-gate  of  the  palace,  and  dismissed  Aboulhassen 
and  the  jeweller  civilly;  though  he  would  not  suffer  either 
of  them  to  speak  again  to  the  princess  or  her  attendant 

The  prince  of  Persia  returned  to  his  own  house,  over- 
come with  fatigue,  grief,  and  despair.  He  refused  to  listen 
to  the  consolations  offered  him  by  his  companion.  His 
imagination  saw  everything  in  the  most  fearful  and  tor- 
menting light.  His  heart  boded  only  calamity,  and  the 
prognostication  was  too  fully  verified. 

The  day  following,  Fatima  came  to. the  jeweller  in  great 
haste,  and  drowned  in  tears.  "  I  have  once  more,"  said 
she,  "  left  the  palace.  My  business  is  to  warn  you  and  the 
prince  of  Persia  of  your  danger.  The  whole  intrigue  is 
just  discovered  to  the  caliph  by  a  perfidious  slave  whom 
Schemselnihar  hath  lately  punished.  Judge  what  a  situa- 
tion we  are  all  in  !  For  my  part,  I  am  determined  to  return 
immediately,  and  share  the  fate  of  my  beloved  mistress; 
we  may  possibly  escape;  but  for  you  and  Aboulhassen 
"'here  is  no  hope.  Fly,  thei-efore,  this  instant,  and  save 
yourself  from  torture  and  from  death." 

The  jeweller  was  too  much  alarmed  to  neglect  a  moment 
this  important  advice.  He  hastened  to  the  prince  of  Per- 
sia, and,  notwithstanding  his  indisposition,  prevailed  with 
him  to  rise  and  leave  Bagdad/  with  the  utmost  speed. 
They  secured  a  supply  of  money  and  jewels,  and  set  off 
for  Anbar,  travelling  two  days  without  stopping;  but  just 
oefore  they  could  reach  a  place  of  safety,  they  were  sur 
rounded  by  thieves,  who  plundered  them  of  everything. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  191 

They  arrived  at  Anbar  the  next  evening,  and  the  jew- 
eller rejoiced  that  they  were  out  of  the  power  of  the 
caliph ;  but  the  prince,  whose  spirits  had  been  kept  up 
only  on  the  present  danger,  sank  under  the  pressure  of  so 
many  calamities.  He  languished  two  days  in  the  house 
of  a  charitable  Mussulman,  who  had  taken  pity  of  their 
distress,  and  then  died  —  expressing  in  his  last  moments 
his  undiminished  love  for  the  beauteous  Schemselnihar. 

The  jeweller  now  found  himself  in  a  very  distressed  sit- 
uation. Deprived  of  the  great  riches  he  had  obtained  by 
his  intrigues ;  his  patron  dead  ;  his  hopes  annihilated ;  an 
exile  from  his  country,  his  avaricious  spirit  still  remained; 
and  he  determined  to  hazard  new  dangers,  in  hopes  of 
recovering  what  he  had  lost.  He  knew  the  banditti  had 
engaged  to  restore  what  they  had  taken  from  his  house; 
and  he  was  not  without  hope  that  it  might  have  been 
delivered  to  his  family.  The  prince  of  Persia  had  a 
mother,  who  inherited  his  vast  wealth,  and  he  was  willing 
to  believe  that  she  would  reward  his  attachment  to  her 
son.  On  these  considerations,  he  revealed  to  his  host  the 
rank  of  the  deceased,  and  engaged  him  to  deposit  the  body 
for  a  short  time  in  a  neighboring  mosque ;  and,  after  stay- 
ing a  few  months  at  Anbar,  he  ventured  to  return  to 
Bagdad. 

As  he  entered  the  city  in  the  evening,  he  saw  a  woman 
in  deep  mourning,  whose  form  reminded  him  of  Fatima. 
He  followed  her  some  time,  till  she  entered  a  stately  mau- 
soleum, lately  built.  Perceiving  no  one  near,  he  called  to 
he»,  on  which  she  turned  round,  and  he  saw  it  was  the 
favorite  of  Schemselnihar.  She  knew  him  also  immedi- 
ately, and  made  signs  for  him  to  enter  the  building  quickly, 
when  she  related  to  him  the  fate  of  her  mistress. 

"When  the  treacherous  slave,"  said  she,  "discovered  to 
the  caliph  what  had  passed  between  Aboulhassen  and 
Schemselrihiar,  the  commander  of  the  Faithful  ordered 
her  to  appear  before  him.  It  was  at  that  time,  when  ter- 
rified for  the  fate  of  her  beloved  prince  more  than  for  her 
own,  she  sent  me  to  you  to  apprise  you  of  the  danger. 
You  will  suppose  the  caliph  indulged  the  highest  trans- 


192  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ports  of  rage  and  jealousy,  but  he  did  quite  the  contrary. 
He  received  her  with  tenderness,  made  her  sit  down  by 
him,  and  then  gently  questioned  her  respecting  the  prince 
of  Persia.  Schemselnihar  had  neither  spirits  nor  inclina- 
tion to  conceal  the  truth;  on  which  the  caliph  said,  'I 
alone  am  to  blame  in  this  affair;  I  ought  to  have  consid- 
ered that,  in  marriage,  age  and  youth  agree  but  ill  to 
gether.  I  love  you,  Schemselnihar,'  continued  the  gener- 
ous prince,  'and  ever  shall;  but  in  future  it  shall  be  like 
the  love  of  a  father,  not  a  husband.  I  will  myself  give 
you  to  Aboulhassen;  send  him  word  of  the  good  fortune 
that  awaits  him.' 

"  The  princess,  who  had  been  so  long  torn  with  con- 
tending passions,  and  spent  with  the  fatigue  of  her  late 
unfortunate  excursion,  and  who  at  this  moment  expected 
a  very  different  sentence,  could  not  support  the  conflict  in 
her  bosom.  She  sank  into  the  arms  of  the  caliph  and 
expired. 

"  The  commander  of  the  Faithful  was  much  afflicted  at 
her  death.  He  caused  her  body  to  be  deposited  in  this 
noble  tomb  with  great  ceremony,  and  has  honored  me 
with  the  charge  of  it,  allowing  me  a  handsome  pension  for 
my  support.  I  ought  also  to  tell  you  that  he  commanded 
Ebn  Thaher  to  return  to  Bagdad,  and  hath  approved  of 
his  conduct  in  this  delicate  business." 

Fatima,  having  finished  her  narrative,  was  informed  by 
the  jeweller  of  the  death  of  Aboulhassen  ;  and  they  joined 
to  pay  the  tribute  of  tears  to  the  memory  of  these  unfor- 
tunate lovers.  In  the  morning  Fatima  waited  on  «the 
caliph,  and  obtained  his  permission  to  inter  the  body  of 
the  prince  of  Persia  in  the  same  tomb  with  his  beloved 
mistress.  The  mercenary  jeweller  was  the  only  victim  of 
the  caliph's  displeasure,  who  was  so  displeased  with  his 
conduct,  that  ho,  confiscated  the  remainder  of  his  effects, 
and  banished  him  from  his  dominions. 

THE    HISTORY    OF    CAMARALZAMAN,   PRINCE   OF   KHALEDAN, 
AND    BADOURA,    PRINCESS    OF    CHINA. 

richahzaman,  king  of  Khaledan,  used  the  liberty  the 
laws  of  Mohammed  allow  to  all  good  Mussulmans.     He 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  193 

had  four  wives  and  sixty  concubines.  The  most  beautiful 
women  in  the  East  were  to  be  found  in  his  harem ;  not- 
withstanding which,  he  continued  childless,  and  lost  all 
relish  for  the  grandeur  and  pleasures  of  a  crown,  for  want 
of  an  heir  to  succeed  him  in  wearing  it. 

At  length,  when  all  hope  of  such  a  blessing  was  nearly 
over,  and  the  king  began  to  find  old  age  approaching,  one 
of  his  wives  became  pregnant,  and  in  due  time  brought 
him  a  son,  so  beautiful,  that  he  was  named  Camaralzaman, 
or  the  moon  of  the  age. 

As  the  prince  grew  up,  he  displayed  great  talents,  and 
by  the  king's  command  was  early  permitted  to  take  his 
seat  in  council,  where  he  conducted  himself  so  ably  as  to 
engage  the  esteem  of  all  the  emirs,  and  give  great  pleasure 
to  his  royal  father.  That  prince  began  now  to  entertain 
a  hope  of  seeing  his  descendants  in  the  next  degree;  for 
which  purpose,  as  soon  as  his  son  became  of  a  suitable 
age,  he  much  pressed  him  to  marry. 

Camaralzaman  had  about  him  something  more  than  in- 
difference for  women  ;  he  heard,  therefore,  this  desire  of 
his  father  with  great  concern.  He  put  it  off  at  first  by 
pleading  youth,  and  desiring  time.  After  waiting  a  whole 
year,  Schahzaman,  finding  no  disposition  in  his  son  to 
obey  him,  desired  the  mother  of  the  prince  to  reason  with 
him  on  the  subject.  Camaralzaman  had  ever  behaved 
with  the  utmost  duty  and  affection  to  her,  and  the  king 
hoped  much  from  her  influence  over  him  to  procure  a 
willing  obedience  to  his  commands. 

The  royal  mother  undertook  the  affair  with  great  zeal. 
She  reasoned  the  matter  over  with  the  prince  many  times, 
and  in  various  modes.  She  urged  his  duty  to  his  father, 
to  his  future  subjects,  and  to  posterity;  she  described  the 
happiness  of  conjugal  amity,  the  delights  of  paternal  love. 
The  prince  heard  her  with  an  indifference  bordering  on 
impatience,  and  continued  firm  in  his  resolution  to  remain 
unmarried. 

Another  year  glided  away,  and  Schahzaman  found  his 
son  still  averse  to  his  wishes.  He  determined,  therefore, 
to  make  the  young  man  pay  that  obedience  to  the  king 

17  N 


194  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

which  he  withheld  from  the  fathei  Without  the  least 
previous  notice,  he  took  the  opportunity  of  a  general 
meeting  of  the  emirs,  officers  of  the  army,  and  other  great 
men,  and  publicly,  before  them  all,  laid  his  commands  on 
the  prince  to  choose  his  wife,  declaring  it  was  not  safe  to 
the  state  that  he  should  live  single  any  longer.  Every 
one  present  concurred  with  the  king  in  his  opinion.  Cam- 
aralzaman,  surprised  and  enraged,  forgot  all  duty,  gave 
way  to  his  natural  impetuosity,  and  replied  to  his  father 
with  so  much  heat  and  acrimony,  that  the  king  found 
himself  at  once  disobeyed  and  affronted;  in  full  courcil  ne 
ordered  his  son,  therefore,  to  be  immediately  taken  away 
to  prison. 

In  the  tower  where  the  prince  was  confined  there  was 
a  well,  which  was  the  retreat  of  a  fairy  named  Maimoune. 
At  midnight,  when  she  came  forth  to  wander  about  the 
world,  after  her  wonted  custom,  she  saw  a  light  in  Cama- 
ralzaman's  chamber ;  she  entered  it,  and  the  prince  being 
fast  asleep,  she  admired  the  beauty  of  his  person  for  some 
time,  after  which  she  took  her  flight  into  the  middle  region 
of  the  air. 

Maimoune  soon  after  met  a  genie  named  Danhasch;  he 
was  one  of  those  genii  who  rebelled  against  God.  The 
great  Solomon  had  obliged  Maimoune  to  conform. 

The  genie  would  gladly  have  avoided  her,  as  he  was 
sensible  how  much  power  she  had  over  him,  by  her  sub- 
mission to  the  Almighty;  but  as  they  were  unawares  very 
near,  he  approached  her  in  the  manner  of  a  supplicant, 
saying,  "  Brave  Maimoune,  swear  to  me  in  the  name  of 
the  great  Power  that  thou  wilt  not  hurt  me,  and  I  will 
also  swear,  on  my  part,  that  I  will  not  do  thee  any  harm." 

"Cursed  genie,"  replied  the  fairy,  "what  hurt  canst 
thou  do  me?  I  fear  thee  not.  But  as  thou  hast  desired 
this  favor  of  me,  I  will  swear  not  to.  hurt  thee.  Tell  me, 
then,  wandering  spirit,  whence  comest  thou,  what  hast 
thou  seen,  and  what  mischief  hast  thou  done  this  night?" 

"You  meet  me  in  time  to  hear  something  that  is  won- 
derful," said  Danhasch,  who  trembled  at  the  sight  of  the 
fairy ;    "  but,  charming  Maimoune,  promise  me  thi  t  yoo 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'*    ENTERTAINMENTS.  196 

will  let  me  go  on  in  my  way  when  I  have  satisfied  your 
demands." 

"Go  on,  go  on,  cursed  spirit,"  replied  the  fairy;  "fear 
nothing ;  dost  thou  think  I  am  as  perfidious  an  elf  as  thy- 
self, to  break  a  solemn  oath  ?  But  be  sure  you  tell  me 
nothing  but  the  truth,  or  I  shall  certainly  clip  your  wings." 

Danhasch  proceeded  to  acquaint  the  fairy  that  he  had 
just  come  from  China,  the  king  of  which  country  had  an 
only  daughter,  whose  beauty  the  genie  spoke  of  in  the 
most  ardent  terms.  He  added  a  story  of  her,  the  very 
counterpart  of  that  of  Camaralzaman,  "  that  her  father 
was  exceedingly  desirous  she  should  marry ;  that  she  had 
constantly  rejected  every  suitor;  and  that  at  last  the  king 
of  China,  enraged  at  her  obstinacy,  had  shut  her  up  in 
prison,  though  doatingly  fond  of  her."  He  concluded  by 
repeating  the  most  lavish  applause  of  her  beauty,  which 
he  said  excelled  any  of  the  race  of  mortals. 

Instead  of  answering  the  genie,  Maimoune  burst  into  a 
violent  fit  of  laughter.  "I  have  just  left,"  said  she,  "a 
prince,  in  circumstances  nearly  the  same,-  but  in  beauty,  I 
have  no  doubt,  much  superior  to  your  princess."  "  'T  is 
impossible!"  replied  Danhasch.  "Peace,  false  .spirit !  " 
replied  the  fairy ;  "you  only  wish  to  send  me  a  long  way 
on  a  fruitless  errand.  I  am  convinced  no  mortal  can  excel 
the  charming  youth  I  have  just  left." 

Danhasch  was  piqued  at  this.  "  If  you  will  permit  me, 
agreeable  Maimoune,"  said  he,  "I  will  immediately  convey 
my  princess  to  the  chamber  your  prince  is  in  ;  we  may 
then  compare  them  at  our  leisure,  and  decide  our  dispute." 
"  Agreed,"  replied  the  fairy,  "  provided  you  swear  to  re- 
turn the  lady  safe  to  the  place  you  bring  her  from."  The 
genie  swore  to  do  this ;  and  Maimoune  having  told  him 
where  Camaralzaman  slept,  went  thither  and  waited  his 
arrival  with  the  princess. 

Danhasch  was  not  long  in  performing  this  business:  he 
introduced  the  princess,  still  asleep,  and  laid  her  by  the 
side  of  Camaralzaman.  The  fairy  and  the  genie  then  com- 
pared them  together,  and  each  claimed  the  victory.  Mai- 
moune, vexed  at  the  contest,  stamped  her  foot  on  tbe  floor, 


196  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

which  opened,  and  ther**  appeared  a  hideous  genie  with 
six  h«!rus  on  his  head,  and  claws  on  his  hands  an  1  feet. 
"Cascheasch,"  said  Maimoune,  "I  called  you  here  to  de- 
termine between  me  and  that  vile  genie;  which  is  the 
most  handsome  of  these  two  mortals  ?  Yiew  them  well, 
and  determine  impartially." 

Cascheasch  surveyed  them  both  with  great  attention 
and  admiration.  After  a  while  he  said  to  the  fairy,  "It 
is  impossible  to  determine  your  dispute,  unless  you  cause 
them  to  awake  in  turn.  I  shall  then  be  able,  by  observing 
their  vivacityand  graceful  carriage,  to  decide  your  con- 
test." 

MaimOune  consented,  and,  changing  herself  into  a  flea, 
she  stung  the  prince  so  sharply  in  the  neck,  that  he 
awoke.  She  then  resumed  her  own  form,  and  joined  the 
genie,  continuing,  as  they  were,  invisible. 

When  Camaralzaman  opened  his  eyes,  he  was  astonished 
to  find  by  him  a  lady  of  such  exquisite  loveliness.  He 
raised  himself  on  his  elbow,  and  gazed  upon  her  with  the 
most  perfect  admiration.  Her  blooming  youth,  her  in- 
comparable beauty,  seized  his  heart  in  a  moment;  and  he 
felt  at  once  the  full  power  of  love,  which  he  had  before  so 
rigorously  resisted. 

He  saluted  her  with  the  utmost  fervor,  and  earnestly 
endeavored  to  awaken  her.  At  length,  finding  she  con- 
tinued in  a  deep  aleep,  and  that  an  unusual  drowsiness 
came  over  himself,  he  took  a  ring  from  her  finger,  and 
put  one  of  his  own  in  its  place.  He  had  scarcely  done 
this,  when  a  profound  sleep  overcame  him. 

The  enchantments  of  the  fairy  produced  this  sleep  in  the 
prince  and  in  Badoura,  (which  was  the  name  of  the  prin- 
cess.) Danhasch  now  became  a  flea,  and  stung  Badoura 
so  severely  on  the  lip,  that  she  presently  awoke.  She  was 
amazed,  in  her  turn,  to  find  a  young  man  lying  by  her; 
and  observing  how  handsome  he  was,  her  wonder  became 
admiration.  "Is  it  you,"  said  she,  "that  the  king,  my 
father,  has  destined  for  my  husband?  Ah  !  if  he  had  in- 
troduced you  to  me,  I  should  never  have  incensed  him  by 
an  obstinate  refusal."    The  princess  had  too  much  m(desty 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  191 

to  awaken  her  supposed  husband,  but  she  gazed  at  Lim 
with  much  pleasure.  At  length  she  perceived  he  had  ex- 
changed rings  with  her.  She  doubted  not  but  this  was  a 
token  of  their  marriage,  though  she  could  not  recollect  the 
particulars  of  it.  While  she  thought  on  these  matters, 
her  senses  were  at  once  locked  up  in  sleep.  Maimoune, 
without  waiting  for  the  decision  of  Cascheash,  triumphed 
over  Danhaseh  on  the  superior  beauty  of  the  prince.  She 
then  commanded  the  genii  to  convey  the  princess  back 
again  to  her  bed.  They  obeyed ;  and  morning  being  near, 
the  fairy  retired  to  her  well. 

When  the  prince  awoke,  he  looked  about  for  the  lady 
whose  charms  had  taken  possession  of  his  heart..  Finding 
she  was  not  with  him,  he  arose,  and  having  .washed  and 
said  his  prayers,  he  sat  down  to  meditate  on  what  had 
passed.  He  concluded  that  the  lady  was  conveyed  to  his 
bed  by  command  of  the  king;  he  doubted  not,  therefore, 
but  that  she  was  intended  for  his  bride.  He  inquired  of 
his  slave  who  she  was,  and  who  had  brought  her  to  his 
chamber?  To  these  questions  the  slave  replied,  by  pos- 
itively denying  that  any  lady  was  introduced  into  his 
apartment.  "How,"  said  the  prince,  "do  you  dare  to  tell 
me  there  was  no  lady  with  me?"  "I  am  sure,"  replied 
the  slave  bluntly,  "  it  is  impossible,  unless  she  passed 
through  the  walls,  for  I  lay  at  the  door." 

Camaralzaman  was  incensed  at  this  presumption  of  his 
slave,  and  caned  him  severely.  The  slave  fled  from  him 
and  ran  to  the  vizier,  declaring  that  his  master  was  mad ; 
relating^ as  a  proof,  how  he  had  punished  him,  and  for 
what  cause.  The  vizier,  alarmed  at  this  account,  hastened 
to  the  prince,  whom  he  found  reading  with  great  compos- 
ure. On  his  entrance,  Camaralzaman  laid  aside  his  book, 
and  conversed  so  rationally,  that  the  minister  became  en- 
raged with  the  slave  for  giving  him  so  causeless  an  alarm; 
and  was  meditating  punishment  for  him,  when  the  prince, 
with  much  earnestness,  inquired  who  the  lady  was  who 
had  been  conveyed  to  h'S  bed  the  preceding  night. 

The  minister  was  thunderstruck  at  this  demand.  He 
hesitatingly  endeavored  to  evade  the  question,  which  the 
17* 


198  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

prifl.C'3  observing,  repeated  in  a  stern  and  angry  manner. 
Thus  pushed,  the  vizier  declared  he  knew  of  no  lady  who 
had  been  admitted  to  him;  he  even  argued  the  impossibil- 
ity of  such  a  circumstance  having  happened;  and  concluded 
with  persuading  the  prince  it  must  have  been  a  dream, 
which  had  taken  such  full  possession  of  his  imagination. 

Camaralzaman  became  frantic  with  anger  at  this  decla- 
ration. He  was  satisfied  in  his  own  mind  that  a  trick  had 
been  played  him  ;  he  doubted  not  but  the  vizier  was  the 
contriver  of  it.  With  these  ideas,  respect  for  neither  the  age 
nor  office  of  the  minister  had  any  weight  with  the  enraged 
prince  ;  he  caned  him  with  as  much  severity  as  he  had  his 
own  slave.  The  vizier,  in  his  turn,  was  glad  to  escape, 
and  going  to  Schahzaman,  he  related  to  him  the  situation 
of  the  prince. 

The  king,  though  angry  with  the  young  man,  had  still 
the  tenderest  affection  for  him ;  he  received,  therefore,  his 
vizier's  account  with  great  concern.  He  immediately 
paid  his  son  a  visit,  who  received  him  very  dutifully, 
pressing  him  earnestly  to  introduce  the  lady  to  him. 
"Whatever  aversion,  sir,"  said  he,  "I  formerly  had  to 
women,  this  young  lady  has  charmed  me  to  such  a  degree 
that  I  am  ready  to  receive  her  as  the  best  gift  you  can 
bestow  on  me." 

The  king  was  much  afflicted  at  this  conversation.  He 
assured  him,  in  the  most  solemn  manner,  that  no  lady  had 
been  introduced  to  him  by  his  order;  nor  was  it  probable 
any  one  could  have  been  there  at  all.  He  therefore  con- 
jured him  to  think  rightly  of  the  matter,  and  believe  it  to 
be,  as  it  certainly  was,  a  dream,  and  nothing  else. 

Camaralzaman  heard  his  father  with  the  most  respectful 
attention  ;  when  he  had  finished  his  discourse,  the  prince 
held  out  his  hand  and  said,  "  You  know,  sir,  the  ring  I 
usually  wore,  which  was  your  majestj^'s  paternal  gift.  You 
see  I  have  it  not;  but  on  my  finger  is  a  woman's  ring, 
which  I  took  from  the  lovely  creature  I  found  by  my  side, 
and  gave  her  mine  in  the  room  of  it.  Could  this  be  a 
dream  ?  " 

The  sigltof  the  ring  convinced  Schahzaman.     "Alas  J 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  199 

my  son,"  said  he,  "  how  should  I  rejoice  if  I  could  set  be- 
fore you  the  lady  I  have  now  no  doubt  you  have  seen 
Some  superior  power  has  brought  her  to  you,  and  you 
must  wait  with  patience  till  she  is  restored  to  you  again. 
Come  now  with  me,  and  resume  your  place  in  my  council. 
I  pardon  your  past  obstinacy,  and  will  no  more  urge  you 
to  marry." 

The  consequences  of  this  interference  of  the  genii,  was 
still  more  serious  in  China.  When  the  princess  awoke  in 
the  morning,  she  inquired  of  her  attendants  who  the 
young  man  was  who  had  been  admitted  into  her  apart- 
ments ;  she  persisted  in  this  demand,  though  they  all 
declared  no  such  circumstance  could  possibly  have  taken 
place ;  and  as  she  obstinately  maintained  the  truth  of  her 
assertion,  and  avowed  herself  ready  to  receive  him  as  her 
husband,  although  she  had  ever  before  been  so  averse  to 
marriage,  the  king,  her  father,  concluded  her  intellects 
were  deranged.  He  ordered  her  to  be  more  closely  con- 
fined; and  issued  a  proclamation,  stating  her  case,  and 
offering  her  hand  in  marriage  to  any  who  was  able  to 
cure  her. 

The  hope  of  obtaining  so  beautiful  a  princess,  and  with 
her  the  succession  to  a  powerful  kingdom,  caused  a  great 
number  of  learned  men  to  offer  their  services.  The  king, 
to  check  this  multiplicity  of  applications,  thought  fit  to 
add  another  condition  to  the  undertaking,  which  was,  that 
whoever  attempted  the  cure  ayd  failed  in  completing  it, 
should  forfeit  his  head.  Much  the  greater  part  of  those 
who  had  applied  seceded  from  so  dangerous  an  experi- 
ment, yet  there  remained  many  who,  depending  on  their 
skill,  or  misled  by  their  vanity,  resolved  to  attempt  it. 

These  drew  lots  to  decide  who  should  first  be  admitted 
to  the  princess.  The  chance  fell  to  an  emir  of  the  court, 
whose  skill  in  ph}Tsic  and  the  occult  sciences  was  unques- 
tionable. The  king  himself  condescended  to  introduce 
him.  As  soon  as  the  princess  saw  them  enter  her  apart- 
ment, she  dropped  her  veil,  and  complained  to  her  father 
that  he  had  brought  with  him  a  strange  man,  when  her 
religion  forbade  her  to  be  seen  by  such  a  one.     The  king 


200  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

apologized  ;  and  told  her  it  was  one  of  the  emirs  who  had 
demanded  her  in  marriage.  ''  It  is  not,  I  see,"  replied  the 
princess,  "  him  to  whom  you  have  already  given  me ;  and 
your  majesty  may  he  assured  I  will  never  marry  any 
other." 

The  emir,  who  expected  the  princess  would  have  broken 
out  into  some  frantic  excess,  was  confounded  when  he 
heard  her  talk  so  rationally,  and  still  more  when  he  found 
her  disorder  arose  from  a  disappointment  in  love.  He 
threw  himself  at  the  king's  feet  and  said,  "You,  sir,  mutt 
be  the  physician  in  this  case,  by  giving  the  princess  to 
the  man  she  honors  with  her  affection.  The  application 
of  art  or  science  can  avail  nothing  toward  curing  a  dis- 
order which  arises  from  that  passion  which  subdues  all 
things." 

The  emir  was  led  out ;  and  the  king,  enraged  at  his  pre- 
sumption and  at  his  own  disappointment,  caused  his  head 
to  be  struck  off,  and  fixed  upon  a  pole  at  the  principal 
gate  of  the  city.  The  severity  of  this  example  did  not 
deter  others.  Many  were  led  by  the  greatness  of  the  prize 
to  attempt  restoring  the  princess,  and  in  a  short  time 
more  than  fift}''  heads  were  placed  by  that  of  the  emir. 

The  princess  of  China's  nurse  had  a  son  whose  name  was 
Marzavan.  He  had  been  foster-brother  to  the  princess ; 
they  were  bred  up  together,  and  had  a  great  affection  for 
each  other.  "When  Marzavan  became  a  young  man,  hav- 
ing a  studious  turn,  he  applied  himself  with  success  to 
judicial  astrology,  geomancy,  and  other  secret  arts.  And 
to  complete  his  education  he  travelled  for  some  years, 
visiting  men  of  knowledge,  and  improving  himself  by 
their  communications. 

Marzavan  was  surprised  on  bis  return  home  to  see  so 
many  heads  at  the  entrance  of  the  city.  After  he  had 
received  and  returned  the  caresses  of  his  mother,  he  in- 
quired of  her  the  cause  of  that  melancholy  spectacle.  The 
good  old  lady  told  him  the  story  of  those  unfortunate  men, 
which  of  course  led  her  to  relate  that  of  the  princess, 
whose  unhappy  situation  she  described  very  feelingly. 

Marzavan  had  great  affection  for  Badoura ;  he  was  not 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  201 

without  ambition,  and  had  the  greatest  reason  to  rely  upon 
his  own  talents.  He  began  to  hope  the  cure  of  the  prin- 
cess was  reserved  for  him,  and  resolved  to  offer  himself 
for  the  dangerous  office.  He  communicated  his  intention 
to  his  mother,  who  was  exceedingly  alarmed  at  it.  She 
besought  him,  with  many  tears,  not  to  expose  himself  to 
certain  death  ;  and  enumerated  the  many  people  of  abilities 
who  had  fallen  a  sacrifice  to  their  own  indiscretion  in 
risking  the  fatal  experiment. 

Finding  he  was  not  to  be  overruled,  she  insisted  he 
should  delay  his  intention  till  the  next  day.  Marzavan 
consented.  She  returned  immediately  into  the  palace,  and 
told  the  princess  that  her  son  had  just  returned  from  his 
travels,  and  longed  exceedingly  to  have  the  honor  of  ap- 
proaching her.  Badoura  retained  a  high  regard  for  her 
foster-brother.  She  readily  consented  to  see  him ;  but,  as 
it  was  necessary  to  keep  so  irregular  a  visit  secret,  it  was 
resolved  to  dress  him  in  woman's  clothes  and  introduce 
him  at  midnight. 

Marzavan  had  now  an  opportunity  of  trying  his  abili- 
ties in  safety.  He  prepared  fumigations,  and  took  with 
him  proper  books,  to  dispossess  the  evil  spirit  that  he 
supposed  had  seized  the  princess.  Badoura  received  him 
with  the  greatest  joy  and  sisterly  affection.  After  the 
first  compliments,  Marzavan  began  what  he  thought  a  proper 
process,  which  the  princess  perceiving,  cried  out,  "  What, 
my  brother  !  do  you  also  believe  that  I  am  mad  ?  Unde- 
ceive yourself,  and  hearken  to  what  I  shall  relate  to  you." 

Badoura  repeated  her  story  to  her  foster-brother,  and 
showed  him  the  ring  she  had  received  in  exchange  for  her 
own.  Marzavan  was  filled  with  astonishment;  he  en- 
treated the  princess  would  support  her  spirits,  while  he 
went  in  search  of  the  object  of  her  affections.  Badoura 
was  pleased  with  his  zeal,  though  she  had  little  hope  of 
any  good  effect  from  it;  and  when  he  took  his  leave,  dis- 
missed him  with  great  kindness. 

Though  Marzavan's  chimerical  hopes  were  frustrated, 
he  rejoiced  that  he  had  made  his  experiment  so  cheaply. 
He  was  still  actuated  by  a  fraternal  regard  for  the  prin- 


202  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

cess :  under  that  influence  he  set  out  and  travelled  from 
province  to  province  in  search  of  her  unknown  lover.  Fof 
many  days  he  heard  in  every  place  the  discourse  of  the 
people  respecting  the  princess  Badoura  and  her  indisposi- 
tion. The  further  he  went  from  the  capital  of  China,  the 
less  this  was  talked,  till  at  length  he  heard  no  more  of  it. 
He  travelled  on  many  days,  and  at  last,  he  heard  people 
talk  of  prince  Camaralzaman,  who,  they  said,  was  very  ill. 
He  pursued  the  story,  which,  as  he  proceeded  onward,  he 
heard  more  distinctly.  The  exact  resemblance  there  was 
between  the  story  of  this  prince,  and  that  of  Badoura, 
left  him  no  doubt  he  was  the  object  of  his  inquiry. 

Marzavan  arrived,  at  length,  at  the  capital  of  Khaledan, 
and  introduced  himself  to  the  grand  vizier  as  a  skilful 
physician.  The  vizier,  finding  from  his  conversation  that 
he  was  a  man  of  ability,  related  to  him  the  story  of  Cam- 
aralzaman, and  ended  with  telling  him  that  a  fixed  melan- 
choly had  taken  possession  of  the  prince  ever  since,  by 
which  his  health  was  much  affected.  He  entreated  Mar- 
zavan to  pay  the  young  man  a  visit,  and  try  if  it  was  in 
the  power  of  his  skill  to  afford  him  assistance. 

Marzavan  eagerly  embraced  the  proposal,  and  being 
introduced  to  the  prince,  found  him  lying  on  the  bed,  his 
eyes  closed,  and  entirely  careless  even  of  his  father's  at- 
tention, who  devoted  every  moment  he  could  spare  from 
public  business  to  the  consolation  of  his  son.  Marzavan 
was  struck  with  the  resemblance  between  the  lovers, 
and  involuntarily  exclaimed,  "Heavens!  what  a  likeness  !" 
This  expression  engaged  the  notice  of  the  prince,  who 
raised  himself  up,  and  surveyed  the  stranger  with  great 
attention.  Marzavan  paid  his  compliments  to  the  prince 
in  extempore  verse,  in  which  he  glanced  at  his  adventure 
in  such  delicate  hints,  that  though  Camaralzaman  readily 
understood  he  could  give  him  information  of  the  lady, 
neither  the  king  nor  his  minister  observed  anything  more 
than  a  handsome  compliment. 

At  the  desire  of  Camaralzaman  he  conversed  with  the 
stranger  alone.  Marzavan  declined  to  relate  to  the  prince 
in  his  present  weak  state,  all  the  particulars  he  was  aft 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  203 

quainted  with.  He  only  told  him,  generally,  that  he  knew 
the  lady  for  whom  his  highness  languished  ;  that  she  re- 
tained the  same  affection  for  him  ;  and  promised  that,  when 
his  health  was  restored,  he  would  give  him  every  informa- 
tion he  could  desire.  From  this  time  Camaralzaman  en- 
tirely lost  his  melancholy;  he  mended  daily.  The  king 
loaded  Marzavan  with  honors  and  rewards,  and  ordered 
public  rejoicings  all  over  the  kingdom  for  his  son's  re- 
covery. 

The  prince  failed  not  to  claim  from  Marzavan  the  intel- 
ligence he  had  promised.  He  readily  informed  him  of 
the  present  situation  of  Badoura,  and  called  upon  him,  by 
every  tie  of  love  and  honor,  to  hasten  to  relieve  a  princess 
who  had  suffered  so  much  for  him. 

The  prince  of  Khaledan  was  too  sincerely  attached  to 
his  beloved  unknown,  to  need  solicitation  on  this  occasion. 
But  as  he  was  sensible  the  king  would  never  permit  him 
to  undertake  so  long  a  journey,  he  thought  some  manage- 
ment was  necessaiy.  Accordingly,  when  his  health  was 
quite  re-established,  he  expressed  a  desire  to  hunt  in  a 
large  forest  near  the  confines  of  the  kingdom.  Having 
obtained  Schahzaman's  consent,  and  continued  the  sport 
for  a  week,  the  prince  withdrew  from  his  train  one  night, 
accompanied  only  by  Marzavan  and  a  groom.  Before 
morning  they  had  got  beyond  his  father's  territories; 
when  he  sent  the  servant  back  with  an  account  where  he 
was  gone,  and  on  what  occasion.  They  then  set  off  for 
the  capital  of  China,  where,  after  travelling  near  twelve 
months,  they  arrived  in  perfect  safety. 

When  they  reached  the  city,  they  found  the  mother 
of  Marzavan  was  dead ;  all  access,  therefore,  to  the  prin- 
cess was  cut  off,  except  by  public  application  to  cure  her. 
It  now  had  been  a  long  time  since  any  one  had  been  hardy 
enough  to  attempt  so  desperate  an  undertaking;  and  the 
people  were  astonished  when  Camaralzaman,  in  the  habit 
of  an  astrologer,  appeared  before  the  gate  of  the  palace, 
and  demanded  admission  to  cure  the  princess,  under  the 
usual  penalty.  The  by-standers  conjured  him  to  forego  so 
rash  an  attempt;  but  he  continued  resolute,  and  repeating 


204  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMEH  TS. 

his  demand  in  so  firm  and  manly  a  manner,  as  made  the 
people  pity  and  tremble  for  him.  On  bis  being  introduced 
to  the  king  of  China,  his  graceful  appearance,  noble  aspect, 
and  blooming  youth  affected  that  prince;  and  as  he  had 
long  considered  the  case  of  his  daughter  as  desperate,  he 
could  not,  without  concern,  see  so  fine  a  young  man  de- 
vote himself  to  destruction.  His  majesty  condescended 
to  expostulate  with  the  supposed  astrologer:  "You  have," 
said  the  king,  "  scarcely  obtained  sufficient  experience  to 
be  equal  to  an  undertaking  which  has  baffled  abilities  of 
many  ver}^  learned  men.  Let  me  then  advise  you  to  de- 
sist, since,  if  you  attempt  and  fail,  nothing  on  earth  can 
save  your  life." 

Camaralzaman  answered  the  king  with  modesty  and 
gratitude,  and,  at  the  same  time,  expressed  so  much  con- 
fidence of  success,  that  his  majesty  sent  immediately  for 
the  chief  eunuch,  and  ordered  him  to  conduct  the  stranger 
to  the  princess.  As  they  passed  through  a  long  gallery, 
the  prince,  through  impatience,  walked  before  the  old 
slave,  who  was  obliged  to  hasten  to  overtake  him.  "You 
are  in  a  strange  hurry,"  said  the  eunuch,  "to  get  to  an 
apartment  from  whence,  I  fear,  jtou  will  think  you  return 
too  soon.  I  have  attended  many  on  this  errand,  and 
always  found  before,  that  they  approached  with  appre- 
hension." "That,"  replied  the  prince,  "was  a  proof  of 
their  inability.  But,  good  eunuch,  to  convince  you  that  I 
am  no  vain  boaster,  supply  me  only  with  pen,  ink,  and 
paper,  and  I  will  undertake  to  cure  the  princess  without 
being  introduced  to  her." 

The  amazed  eunuch  did  so,  and  Camaralzaman  wrote  a 
tender  billet  to  the  princess,  and  enclosed  in  it  the  ring 
he  had  taken  from  her  finger.  Badoura  received  the  note 
from  the  eunuch  with  great  indifference  when  he  told  her 
it  came  from  an  astrologer  who  had  undertaken  to  cure 
her ;  but  the  instant  she  saw  her  own  ring,  she  had  scarce 
patience  to  read  it;  she  demanded  to  be  led  immediately 
to  the  person  who  wrote  it.  The  eunuch  accordingly  con- 
ducted her  to  the  room  where  he  had  left  the  prince,  who 
had  thrown  aside  the  astrologer's  habit,  and  waited  to  .re- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  206 

ceive  her  with  the  most  anxious  impatience.  They  knew 
each  other  the  instant  they  met.  Camaralzaman  flew  to 
the  arms  of  the  princess,  and  the  manner  in  which  .she 
received  him,  convinced  her  attendants  that  her  cure  was 
perfected. 

The  eunuch  hastened  to  the  king  with  the  welcome 
tidings.  That  monarch  could  scarcely  credit  his  report. 
Be  went  directly  to  his  daughter's  apartments,  and  em- 
braced her;  after  which  he  presented  her  hand  to  Camar- 
alzaman, and  gave  orders  for  the  marriage  to  be  immedi- 
ately solemnized. 

The  king  of  China  was  highly  pleased  when  he  found 
his  new  son-in-law  was  a  prince.  He  heard  from  him, 
with  fresh  wonder,  the  manner  in  which  he  became  con- 
tracted to  the  princess,  having  ever  considered  Badoura's 
account  of  it  as  a  proof  of  her  disorder.  The  rejoicings  on 
the  recovery  and  marriage  of  the  princess  were  universal. 

For  a  whole  year  Camaralzaman  gave  himself  up  to  the 
delights  of  his  new  situation.  In  the  midst  of  these  en- 
joyments he  dreamt  one  night,  that  he  saw  Schahzaman, 
his  father,  on  his  death-bed;  and  heard  him  say  to  his 
attendants,  "  My  son,  whom  I  so  tenderly  loved ;  my  son, 
whom  I  bred  with  so  much  affection,  so  much  care,  hath 
abandoned  me  ;  and  is  himself,  by  that  means,  the  cause 
of  my  death."     He  awoke  in  great  distress. 

In  the  morning  he  related  his  dream  to  the  princess 
Badoura,  and  they  agreed  to  request  the  king  of  China 
that  he  would  permit  them  to  take  a  journey  to  see  Schah- 
zaman. Though  the  request  was  too  reasonable  to  be  re- 
fused, yet  the  king  of  China  parted  from  them  reluctantly; 
and  on  condition  that  they  should  stay  no  longer  than  a 
year  in  Scbabzaman's  court,  and  then  return  to  him  again. 

They  set  out  with  a  small  retinue,  after  having  taken  a 
tender  farewell  of  the  king  of  China  ;  and  travelled  for  a 
month,  making  easy  journeys  through  a  delightful  country. 
One  day  the  weather  being  very  hot,  Camaralzaman  or- 
dered the  tents  to  be  pitched,  during  the  heat  of  the  day, 
in  a  grove  of  tall  trees.  The  princess  being  weary,  re- 
tired to  her  tent,  and  bade  her  women  to  untie  her  girdle 

18 


206  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

which  they  laid  down  by  her,  and  she  falling  asleep,  her 
attendants  left  her. 

The  prince,  when  everything  was  properly  disposed  of, 
came  to  the  tent  where  the  princess  was  asleep.  As  he 
entered,  he  observed  her  girdle,  which  he  took  up  and 
examined;  in  the  middle  of  it  he  found  a  little  purse 
which  contained  a  cornelian,  tied  by  a  red  ribbon,  ai.d 
engraven  in  unknown  figures  and  characters;  by  a  paper 
annexed  to  it,  he  learned  that  it  was  a  talisman,  on  which 
there  was  a  scheme  of  Badoura's  nativity,  drawn  from  the 
constellations ;  and  that  it  was  lately  given  to  her  by  the 
queen  of  China,  as  a  charm  that  would  preserve  her  from 
ill  fortune  as  long  as  she  had  it  about  her.  The  tent  being 
too  dark  to  observe  the  engravings  distinctly,  the  prince 
took  it  to  the  door;  where,  while  he  was  looking  at  it,  a 
bird  darted  from  the  air,  and  snatched  it  from  him. 

Camaralzaman  was  exceedingly  grieved  when  he  saw 
the  bird  fly  away  with  the  talisman.  He  blamed  severely 
his  idle  curiosity,  by  which  he  had  lost  a  treasure  so  valued 
by  the  princess.  The  bird  having  got  her  prize,  pitched 
upon  the  ground  not  far  off,  with  the  talisman  in  her 
mouth;  the  prince  drew  near,  in  hopes  she  would  drop  it; 
but  as  he  approached,  she  took  wing  and  pitched  again 
farther  off.  Camaralzaman  followed  her,  and  the  bird 
having  swallowed  the  talisman,  took  a  small  flight  farther 
still.  The  prince  hoped  to  kill  her  with  a  stone;  and  as 
she  flew  but  a  little  way  at  a  time,  he  became  more  and 
more  eager  in  pursuing  her.  Thus  the  bird  led  him  from 
hill  to  valley,  and  from  valley  to  hill  all  day;  and  instead 
of  perching  at  night  on  a  bush,  where  he  might  probably 
have  taken  her,  she  roosted  on  a  high  tree,  safe  from  his 
pursuit.  The  prince,  grieved  at  the  misfortunes  of  the 
day,  would  have  returned  to  his  camp,  but,  alas !  he 
thought  of  it  too  late.  "Whither  shall  he  go  ?  which  way 
return  ?  how  will  he  be  able  to  trace  back  his  steps  over 
mountains  and  valleys  never  trod  before  ?  Darkness  and 
fatigue  alike  prevented  him.  Besides,  how  durst  he  ap- 
pear before  his  princess  without  her  talisman  ?  Over- 
whelmed with  these  distressing  thoughts,  he  sat  down  at 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  201 

the  foot  of  a  tree,  and  sleep  gave  him  a  short  respite  from 
his  affliction. 

He  awoke  the  next  morning  before  the  bird  had  left  the 
tree  ;  and,  as  soon  as  he  saw  her  on  the  wing,  followed  her. 
fie  iontinued  to  do  so  the  whole  day,  with  no  better  suc- 
cess than  he  had  had  the  day  before,  eating  nothing  but 
herbs  and  fruits  which  he  picked  as  he  walked.  For  ten 
days  he  pursued  the  mischievous  bird,  sleeping  every  night 
under  the  tree  where  she  roosted.  On  the  eleventh  day, 
he  drew  near  to  a  great  city,  and  the  bird  flying  over  the 
walls,  he  saw  her  no  more. 

Camaralzaman  entered  the  city,  overcome  with  grief 
and  despair.  He  wandered  about  for  some  time,  and,  at 
last,  came  to  the  side  of  a  river.  He  proceeded  on  the 
banks  of  it,  till  he  saw  a  gate  open,  which  he  entered,  and 
found  a  gardener  at  work,  who  after  looking  at  him  a  little 
while,  called  out  for  him  to  come  forward,  and  shut  the 
door.  The  prince  did  as  he  was  directed,  and  going  up  to 
the  gardener,  asked  him  the  reason  of  his  being  so  cau- 
tious. "  Because,"  replied  the  old  man,  "  I  judge  you  are 
a  stranger,  and  I  perceive,  by  your  dress,  that  you,  as  well 
as  myself,  are  a  Mussulman.  This  city  is  inhabited  by 
idolaters,  who  have  a  mortal  hatred  to  true  believers.  It 
is  wonderful  how  you  have  escaped  ill-usage,  as  you  must 
have  come  through  a  considerable  part  of  the  city.  But 
you  seem  weary  5  come  into  my  house ;  I  will  give  you  the 
best  refreshments  in  my  power;  and  you  shall  then  tell 
me  if  I  can  do  you  more  material  service." 

The  prince  thankfully  accepted  the  friendly  offer  he 
stood  so  much  in  need  of.  The  benevolent  gardener  con- 
ducted him  into  his  little  hut,  clean  though  small,  and  well 
defended  from  the  weather.  He  set  before  him  his  pro- 
visions, and  entertained  him  with  so  much  heartiness,  that 
the  prince  was  quite  charmed ;  and  at  the  request  of  his 
host  readily  told  him  who  he  was,  and  by  what  accident 
he  came  there.  He  concluded  with  saying,  "Having  been 
eleven  days  separated  from  my  dear  princess,  I  have  no 
chance  of  meeting  with  her  again  on  her  journey ;  my 
only  hope  is,  that  she  will  proceed  to  my  father's  territo- 


208  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ries;  and  I  must  beg  of  you  to  inform  me  in  what  manner 
I  can  best  convey  myself  thither  to  meet  her." 

The  gardener  told  him  it  would  be  impossible  for  him  to 
return  home  by  land,  as  his  way  lay  through  so  many  bar- 
barous nations.  "There  is,"  continued  he,  "a  ship  sails 
fr^m  this  port  once  a  year  to  the  Isle  of  Ebene;  whence 
you  may  easily  convey  yourself  to  Khaledan,  but  that 
ship  sailed  only  a  few  days  ago ;  it  will  of  course  be  near 
a  year  before  you  will  have  that  opportunity.  In  the 
meantime,  I  would  advise  you  to  remain  with  me;  here 
you  will  enjoy  perfect  safety,  and  in  due  time  you  will 
join  your  princess,  in  your  own  country,  with  little  risk  or 
inconvenience." 

Camaralzaman,  on  consideration,  embraced  the  garden- 
er's friendly  offer.  He  passed  the  days  in  laboring  in  the 
garden,  that  he  might  be  as  little  burdensome  as  possible 
to  his  host;  and  the  nights  in  thinking  of  his  dear  Ba- 
doura,  and  lamenting  their  unfortunate  separation. 

THE    STORY    OF    THE    PRINCESS    BADOURA,    AFTER    HER    SEPA- 
RATION   FROM    PRINCE    CAMARALZAMAN. 

The  princess  slept  a  long  while ;  and  when  she  awoke, 
she  missed  the  talisman  from  her  girdle.  She  inquired  for 
the  prince,  not  doubting  but  that  he  had  taken  it  up,  and 
expected  his  return  with  much  impatience. 

When  the  day  closed,  and  the  succeeding  night  bad 
passed  away,  and  Camaralzaman  continued  absent,  the 
alarm  and  affliction  of  Badoura  became  very  great;  but 
she  had  too  much  good  sense  to  indulge  an  unavailing 
sorrow,  especially  at  a  time  when  spirit  and  resolution 
were  so  necessary  for  her  safety.  None  of  the  party, 
except  her  own  women,  knew  of  the  prince's  absence. 
Badoura,  when  she  saw  he  did  not  return  on  the  third 
day,  dressed  herself  in  a  suit  of  his  clothes,  and  going 
among  the  attendants,  ordered  them  to  strike  the  tents 
and  pursue  their  route.  The  great  likeness  between  her 
and  Camaralzaman  made  her  easily  pass  for  him.  She 
ordered  one  of  her  women  to  take  her  seat  in  the  caravan, 
while  she  mounted  on  horseback  and  rode  by  the  side  of 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  209 

it;  chus  they  travelled  for  several  months,  till  they  arrived 
at  the  capital  of  Ebene ;  when  Armanos,  king  of  that 
island,  invited  the  supposed  son  of  his  ally,  Schahzaman, 
to  repose  awhile  in  his  court,  before  he  proceeded  to 
Khaledan. 

The  princess  Badoura  accepted  the  invitation,  and  was 
received  by  Armanos  with  much  hospitality.  The  king 
was  greatly  pleased  with  the  supposed  Camaralzaman. 
He  contrived  every  means  of  amusing  him  to  prevent  his 
departure ;  and  at  length  frankly  offered  to  give  him  his 
only  daughter,  Haiatalnefous,  to  wife,  and  to  place  the 
crown  of  Ebene  on  his  head,  which  old  age  had  made  too 
burdensome  for  his  own. 

Badoura  was  much  perplexed  by  this  offer,  which  she 
dreaded  alike  to  accept  or  reject.  The  inconveniences  at- 
tending  her  becoming  the  husband  of  the  princess  of  Ebene 
were  obvious ;  yet  if  she  refused,  she  had  everything  to 
apprehend  from  the  anger  of  the  king,  in  whose  power 
she  was,  and  who  no  doubt  would  resent  the  indignity. 
Nor  durst  she  discover  her  sex,  as  she  was  unprotected  by 
Camaralzaman,  uncertain  of  his  fate,  and  at  such  a  dis- 
tance from  her  father's  kingdom.  She  resolved,  therefore, 
to  throw  herself  on  the  generosity  of  the  princess.  She 
accepted  the  king's  offer  with  great  apparent  joy;  and 
having  given  a  probable  reason  for  her  conduct  to  such  of 
her  attendants  as  thought  her  Camaralzaman,  and  cau- 
tioned the  few  of  her  wom?n  who  knew  the  secret  to  be 
faithful  and  silent,  she  prepared  herself  to  be  the  bride- 
groom of  Haiatalnefous. 

The  king  summoned  his  council  and  great  men,  and,  in 
their  presence,  resigned  his  crown  to  the  supposed  Cam- 
aralzaman. The  next  day,  Badoura  was  decorated  in  the 
regalia  of  the  kingdom ;  and  the  marriage  rites  were  cel- 
ebrated with  the  utmost  splendor,  amidst  rejoicings  which 
gladdened  every  heart  except  that  of  the  bridegroom. 

In  the  evening,  when  they  had  retired  together,  Ba- 
doura, not  without  confusion,  acquainted  the  princess  that 
she  was  a  woman.     She  related,  with  many  tears,  the  story 
of  her  marriage  with  Camaralzaman,  and  of  their  unfoT 
18*  o 


210  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

tunate  separation.  "  I  durst  not,"  continued  she,  "  refuse 
your  father's  offer,  nor  explain  my  situation  to  him  I 
rely  entirely  on  your  good  nature  to  keep  my  secret  a 
short  time.  If  the  prince  of  Khaledan  is  living,  it  cannot 
be  long  before  he  will  arrive  here,  on  his  way  home  ;  and 
should  you  think  him  as  amiable  as  I  do,  I  will  consent 
that  he  shall  be  your  husband  as  well  as  mine,  which  you 
know  is  agreeably  to  the  laws  of  the  prophet.  If,  on  the 
other  hand,  he  is  no  more,  I  shall  continue,  by  your  kind- 
ness, in  safety  here,  till  1  can  acquaint  my  royal  father 
with  my  situation." 

The  princess  of  Ebene  heard  Badoura's  story  with  won- 
der and  pity.  "When  she  had  finished  her  narrative,  Hai- 
atalnefous  embraced  her,  saying,  "I  do  not  blame  your 
sorrow,  unfortunate  princess;  it  must  needs  be  great  for 
the  loss  of  a  husband  so  accomplished  as  you  describe 
Camaralzaman ;  I  will  keep  your  secret,  and  shall  be  glad, 
by  every  means  in  my  power,  to  alleviate  your  grief." 
From  this  time  the  most  perfect  friendship  took  place 
between  the  two  princesses ;  and  Badoura  became  every 
day  more  esteemed  by  Armanos  and  his  people,  conducting 
the  affairs  of  the  kingdom  with  great  ability  and  success. 

While  these  things  passed  in  the  island  of  Ebene,  Cam- 
araizaman  remained  with  his  friendly  gardener,  impa- 
tiently waiting  for  the  time  when  he  should  be  able  to  set 
forward  in  search  of  his  beloved  Badoura.  One  morning, 
when  he  was  preparing  to  go  to  work,  the  gardener  pre- 
vented him,  saying,  "  This  day  is  a  great  festival  with  the 
idolaters,  on  which  account  they  will  not  permit  Mussul- 
men  to  work.  I  will  go  to  the  port,  and  as  the  time  ap- 
proaches in  which  the  ship  sails  to  Ebene,  I  will  secure 
you  a  passage  in  it.  But  I  would  advise  you  to  continue 
here,  and  amuse  yourself  in  the  garden  till  I  return." 

The  prince  pursued  the  advice  of  his  host.  While  he 
was  reposing  himself  under  a  tuft  of  trees,  indulging  his 
melancholy  reflections,  he  was  disturbed  by  two  birds 
fighting,  and  making  a  great  noise  very  near  him.  In  a 
little  time  one  of  them  fell  down  dead,  and  the  victorious 
bird  flew  away. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  211 

In  a  short  time  two  other  birds  came,  and  pitched 
themselves  one  at  the  head  and  the  other  at  the  feet  of 
the  dead  bird.  After  seeming  to  express  much  concern, 
they  dug  a  grave  with  their  talons,  and  interred  the  de- 
funct. This  don 3,  they  flew  away;  but  returned  it)  a  few 
minutes,  bringing  with  them  the  victor  bird,  one  holding  a 
"r ' ag  in  her  beak  and  the  other  a  leg,  the  prisoner  all  the 
while  screaming  most  piteously,  and  struggling  to  escape. 
They  carried  him  to  the  grave  of  the  dead  bird,  where 
they  put  him  to  death ;  and  tearing  him  to  pieces  with 
their  beaks,  they  strewed  his  remains  about  the  place 
where  they  had  buried  his  antagonist, 

When  the  two  avenging  birds  had  flown  away,  Cama- 
ralzaman  drew  near  the  spot,  and  looking  on  the  dismem- 
bered carcase,  he  saw  something  red  hanging  out  of  it 
He  took  it  up,  and  found  it  was  his  beloved  Badoura's 
talisman.  Nothing  could  exceed  the  joy  he  felt  on  this 
happy  event.  He  had  no  doubt  but  it  was  a  presage  of  a 
speedy  meeting  with  his  lovely  princess.  He  triumphed 
over  the  mischievous  bird  who  had  been  the  cause  of  his 
misfortunes,  and  rejoiced  at  the  vengeance  which  had 
overtaken  him,  in  the  perpetration  of  a  new  enormity 
against  one  of  his  own  species. 

The  prince  being  much  agitated  with  the  adventure  of 
the  day,  retired  to  rest  before  the  return  of  the  gardener. 
In  the  morning,  he  related  to  his  host  what  had  befallen 
him.  The  friendly  gardener  took  part  in  his  satisfaction : 
"  1  congratulate  you,  prince,"  said  he,  "  on  this  happy 
event;  and  I  shall  increase  your  joy,  by  acquainting  you 
that  the  vessel  sails  to  Ebene  in  a  few  days.  The  exact 
time  will  be  appointed  this  morning  ;  I  will  return  to  the 
port,  and  bring  you  notice  of  it ;  meantime  you  will  find 
exercise  and  amusement  by  cutting  away  yon  decayed 
tree." 

The  gardener  set  out  accordingly,  and  Camaralzaman 
took  his  tools  and  began  to  dig  round  the  tree.  When  he 
had  turned  up  the  earth  a  few  feet  deep,  he  discovered  a 
broad  plate  of  brass,  under  which  was  a  staircase  of  ten 
steps;  he  went  down,  and  at  the  bottom  saw  a  cave,  with 


212  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

fifty  brass  urns  placed  in  order  around  it.  He  opened 
them  all,  and  found  them  full  of  gold-dust.  The  priuce 
was  much  pleased  with  this  event;  and  as  soon  as  the 
gardener  returned  he  conducted  him  to  the  cave,  and 
congratulated  him  on  his  possessing  so  much  wealth  in  his 
old  age,  the  reward  of  his  virtue,  and  recompense  for  his 
past  labor. 

"  How  1 "  replied  the  gardener,  "  do  you  think  I  will  take 
these  riches  as  mine  ?  For  fourscore  years  I  have  labored 
m  this  garden  ;  if  this  treasure  had  been  destined  for  me, 
I  should  have  found  it  long  ago.  It  comes  to  you,  prince, 
in  good  time,  as  three  days  hence  the  vessel  sails  to  Ebcne, 
and  I  have  taken  a  passage  for  you  in  it."  Camaralzaman 
pressed  his  host  much  to  receive  the  treasure ;  and  after  a 
long  dispute,  they  agreed  to  divide  it  between  them. 

This  affair  being  settled,  the  gardener  told  Camaralzaman 
it  would  be  necessary  to  act  with  caution,  or  the  idolaters 
would  seize  his  treasure  :  "  Fill,  therefore,"  said  he,  "  fifty 
jars  half  with  gold-dust,  the  other  half  with  olives  ;  which 
is  a  common  article  of  traffic  between  this  place  and  Ebene, 
where  none  grow."  The  prince  took  this  prudent  advice; 
and,  fearing  lest  his  talisman  should  be  again  lost,  be 
carefully  put  it  up  in  one  of  the  jars,  and  sent  the  whole 
on  board  the  vessel. 

The  next  day  Camaralzaman  had  the  mortification  to 
find  his  friendly  host  exceeding  ill :  the  day  following  he 
grew  worse ;  and,  on  the  third  day,  when  the  prince  should 
have  embarked,  he  was  in  the  agonies  of  death.  The  wind 
being  fair,  the  captain  sent  to  his  passenger,  and  pressed 
him  to  come  on  board  immediately.  The  distress  of  the 
prince  was  extreme.  If  he  missed  this  opportunity,  he 
knew  it  must  be  another  year  before  he  could  get  away 
from  the  city  of  idolaters;  all  which  time  he  must  remain 
in  uncertainty  as  to  the  fate  of  his  dear  princess.  Her 
sorrow  for  him  also  must  continue  so  much  longer.  Nor 
was  this  all;  the  talisman,  that  source  of  all  his  misfor- 
tunes, was  no  longer  in  his  possession  ;  and  in  whose  hands 
it  might  fall,  when  the  ship  arrived  at  Ebene,  it  was  im 
possible  to  foresee. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  213 

On  the  other  hand,  to  leave  his  benefacter  to  expire  by 
himself,  when  he  ought  to  receive  the  confession  of  his 
faith,  which  all  good  Mussulmans  repeat  before  they  die; 
to  suffer  his  remains  to  perish  unburied,  and  insulted  by 
the  idolaters  (which  he  knew  must  be  the  case,  if  he  did 
not  stay  to  fulfil  the  last  offices  for  him,)  all  this  was  such 
an  ungrateful  return  for  the  gardener's  zeal,  fidelity,  and 
benevolence,  that,  though  the  struggle  was  a  severe  one, 
the  virtue  of  the  prince  prevailed.  He  received  the  last 
breath  of  his  friendly  host,  washed  his  body,  and  interred 
it  decently  in  his  own  garden;  after  which,  though  night 
was  at.  hand,  he  ran  to  the  seaside,  and  had  the  mortifica- 
tion to  find  that  the  vessel  had  sailed  about  an  hour  before, 
the  captain  having  waited  for  him  till  the  last  moment. 

Camaralzaman  submitted  to  his  fate  with  fortitude, 
though  not  without  extreme  sorrow,  the  consciousness  of 
having  acted  right  supporting  him  under  the  painful 
consequences  of  it.  The  vessel  had  a  quick  passage  to 
Ebene ;  where,  on  its  arrival,  inquiry  was  made,  by  com- 
mand of  the  king,  if  it  had  brought  any  olives.  It  hap- 
pened there  were  none  on  board  but  those  belonging  to 
Camaralzaman.  Badoura,  who  was  fond  of  that  fruit, 
ordered  all  the  fifty  jars  to  be  bought  at  a  high  price  for 
her  own  use. 

In  the  evening,  when  the  princess  withdrew  into  the 
inner  palace  to  sup  with  Haiatalnefous,  she  ordered  some 
of  these  olives  to  be  brought  to  table.  On  emptying  the 
jar,  they  were  surprised  to  find  a  large  quantity  of  gold- 
dust  among  them  ;  and,  on  further  examination,  Badoura 
saw  and  remembered  her  talisman.  She  caught  it  up.  and 
immediately  fainted  away. 

On  her  recovery  she  dismissed  the  attendants,  and, 
showing  Haiatalnefous  the  talisman,  the  two  princesses 
rejoiced  together  in  the  fortunate  omen.  In  the  morning 
the  supposed  king  sent  for  the  captain  of  the  vessel,  and 
inquired  strictly  who  was  the  owner  of  the  olives  he  had 
sold  the  day  before?  The  captain  readily  told  the  little 
he  knew  of  him;  on  which  Badoura  commanded  him  to 
sail    immediately,  to    seize  that  man,  and   bring  him    to 


214  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Ebene,  offering  great  rewards  if  this  was  done,  and  threat 
ening  every  severity  if  he  failed. 

The  captain  set  sail  accordingly.  When  he  arrived  off 
the  city  of  idolaters,  he  did  not  think  proper  to  enter  the 
harbor;  but  drawing  as  near  the  coast  as  he  could,  when  it 
was  dark,  he  landed  a  party  of  his  men,  and  seizing  Cam- 
aralzaman, conveyed  him  aboard  with  great  silence  ;  after 
which  he  immediately  hoisted  sail  again  for  Ebene. 

The  captain,  agreeably  to  his  instructions,  treated  the 
prince  with  great  respect,  but  refused  to  tell  him  why  he 
was  thus  made  a  prisoner.  The  princess  Badoura  had 
immediate  notice  of  their  arrival,  when  she  ordered  Cam- 
aralzaman  to  be  brought  into  her  presence.  She  instantly 
knew  him,  notwithstanding  his  gardener's  dress.  Had  she 
followed  the  dictates  of  her  heart,  she  would  have  flown 
to  his  embraces  ;  but  conceiving  it  was  more  to  his  interest 
for  her  to  support  the  character  of  king  a  little  longer,  she 
suppressed  her  emotions,  and  ordered  him  to  be  conducted 
to  a  handsome  apartment,  and  supplied  with  everything 
he  wanted  in  the  most  ample  manner. 

The  next  morning  she  caused  him  to  be  richly  clothed, 
and  introduced  to  her  in  council ;  and  in  the  presence  of 
the  emirs  she  avowed  her  knowledge  of  his  abilities,  and 
appointed  him  lord  treasurer.  Camaralzaman  received 
his  appointment  with  wonder,  and  would  have  rejoiced  in 
so  favorable  a  change  in  his  situation,  if  all  jry  had  not 
been  destroyed  by  his  fruitless  inquiry  after  his  beloved 
princess. 

For  a  short  time  he  executed  the  duties  of  his  office  with 
great  ability ;  when  the  supposed  king,  desirous  to  put  an 
end  to  his  sorrow,  and  her  own  constraint,  ordered  him  to 
attend  her  one  evening  in  the  inner  palace.  When  he 
arrived,  Badoura  led  him  into  a  private  room,  and  taking 
the  talisman  out  of  her  pocket,  said,  "  It  is  not  long  since 
this  was  presented  to  me.  As  I  have  reason  to  think  you 
are  skilled  in  these  things,  I  would  know  of  you  what  are 
its  properties." 

Camaralzaman  took  the  talisman,  and  drawing  near  a 
lamp  to  look  at  it,  immediately  knew  it.     "  O  king,"  ex- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  215 

claimed  he,  "  iA  has  one  property,  which  is  to  kill  me  with 
grief  if  I  do  not  shortly  find  one  of  the  most  charming 
women  in  the  world  to  whom  it  belongs,  whose  loss  I 
have  never  ceased  a  moment  to  deplore ;  nor  shall  I  fail 
to  excite  your  compassion,  when  I  have  related  my  mis- 
fortunes to  you." 

"At  another  time,"  replied  Badoura,  "  I  shall  willingly 
hear  your  story.  You  may  suppose  I  am  not  entirely 
unacquainted  with  it.  But  compose  yourself  now,  and 
wait  here  till  I  return  to  you."  Having  said  this,  she  re- 
tired, and  laying  aside  her  regal  robes,  she  dressed  herself 
as  a  woman,  and  presented  herself  to  her  husband. 

It  would  be  in  vain  to  attempt  relating  the  transports 
of  the  lovers  on  their  reunion.  After  they  were  a  little 
suhsided,  Camaralzaman  expressed  his  gratitude  to  the 
king  for  having  so  greatly  delighted  and  surprised  him. 
"Do  not  expect,"  replied  the  princess,  "to  see  that  king 
any  more."  She  then  proceeded  to  relate  to  him  her  ad 
ventures,  and  the  plan  she  had  formed  to  procure  for  hirr 
the  crown  of  Ebene. 

In  the  morning  Badoura  sent  a  message  to  Armanos. 
desiring  to  see  him.  He  came  immediately,  and  finding 
in  the  inner  palaCe  a  strange  lady  and  the  lord  treasurer 
(whose  presence  in  those  apartments  was  unlawful),  was 
at  a  loss  what  to  Buy.  Sitting  down,  he  asked  where  the 
king  was;  to  which  Badoura  replied,  "Yesterday,  my 
lord,  I  was  king ;  but  now  am  contented  to  be  only  prin 
cess  of  China,  and  to  acknowledge  that  prince  for  my 
husband." 

She  went  on  relating  her  story,  and  explaining  to  Anna 
nos  the  motives  of  her  conduct.  "Your  daughter,  sir,  the 
lovely  Haiatalnefous,  has  assisted  mo  in  this  critical  situ 
ation  with  her  secrecy  and  her  counsels.  In  return,  if 
your  majesty  chooses  to  bestow  your  crown  on  the  real 
Camaralzaman,  I  am  willing  he  should  become  her  his 
band  also  ;  to  which  I  have  her  permission  to  declare  heT 
consent." 

Armanos  was  delighted  with  the  spirit  and  good  conduct 
of  Badoura;  he  readily  agreed  to  confer  his  daughter  and 


216  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

his  crown  on  so  deserving  a  prince  as  Camaralzaman)  -who 
received  them  both  with  the  utmost. gratitude. 

The  next  year  each  of  the  princesses  brought  forth  a 
son.  The  prince  of  whom  Badoura  was  delivered,  was 
named  Amgrad  (most  glorious).  The  son  of  Haiatalne. 
fous  was  called  Assad  (most  happy).  Their  birth  in- 
creased the  friendship  of  their  royal  parents,  and  greatly 
heightened  the  satisfaction  of  the  venerable  king  Armanos. 

THE    STORY    OP    THE    PRINCES    AMGRAD    AND    ASSAD. 

King  Camaralzaman  lived  many  years  happily  with  his 
queens  Badoura  and  Haiatalnefous.  He  had  the  delight 
to  find  his  two  sons,  as  they  grew  up,  become  very  ac- 
complished princes,  and  very  dutiful  children.  The  most 
cordial  friendship  subsisted  between  the  two  queens  ;  and 
the  princes  having  the  same  tutors,  the  same  officers,  the 
same  amusements,  seemed  also  to  have  the  same  soul ;  the 
most  perfect  fraternal  affection  binding  them  to  each  other. 

This  delightful  scene  of  domestic  felicity  was  at  on.ee 
destroyed  by  the  folly  of  Camaralzaman.  The  young 
princes  had  attained  the  age  of  eighteen,  and  the  king 
was  past  the  meridian  of  life,  when  he  took  a  fancy  to 
indulge  himself  with  the  privilege  the  prophet  allows,  and 
married  two  other  wives.  The  ladies  were  young  and  of 
exquisite  beauty ;  but  besides  beauty  they  possessed  no 
desirable  quality.  Camaralzaman  was  so  infatuated  that 
he  treated  his  two  respectable  queens  with  neglect,  and 
attached  himself  to  his  new  wives  with  a  fondness  border- 
ing on  dotage.  Far  from  returning  this  ridiculous  passion, 
they  turned  their  thoughts  to  other  objects.  The  manly 
graces  of  the  two  young  princes  engaged  their  attention; 
and  they  contrived  to  let  them  know  that  their  visits 
might  be  secret,  and  would  not  be  unwelcome. 

Amgrad  and  Assad  had  too  much  filial  piety  to  receive 
this  invitation  with  patience.  They  rejected  the  offer 
with  abhorrence,  and  even  punished  the  slave  severe!} 
who  brought  the  billets.  From  this  moment  the  new 
queens  vowed  their  destruction.  In  the  state  of  the 
icing's  mind  this  was  not  difficult  to  effect.     They  enased 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  211 

not  to  insinuate  that  the  young  men  were  disgusted,  on 
behalf  of  then*  mothers,  and  had  ambitious  designs  oi 
their  own.  These  hints  were  dropped  as  if  given  with 
reluctance,  and  extorted  from  them  through  concern  foi 
the  king's  safety. 

-  By  these  arts  Camaralzaman  was  led  to  consider  hia 
sons  as  his  most  dangerous  enemies.  He  would  have  pub- 
licly put  them  to  death,  but  that  he  dreaded  their  popular- 
ity.  He  directed  them,  therefore,  to  go  to  a  distant  place 
on  the  frontiers  of  the  kingdom,  pretending  that  their 
studies  were  interrupted  by  the  bustle  of  the  capital.  An 
emir,  of  the  name  of  Giendar,  with  a  few  attendants, 
were  ordered  to  escort  them,  and  the  princes,  whose  obe- 
dience to  the  commands  of  their  father  was  implicit,  set 
out  accordingly.  When  they  arrived  at  an  extensive  and 
uncultivated  forest,  Giendar  left  his  retinue  on  the  borders, 
and  led  the  princes  a  considerable  way  within  it,  where 
he  produced  an  order  from  the  king  to  put  them  both  to 
death  ;  they  submitted  without  murmuring  to  this  cruel 
decree;  a  contest  only  arose  between  them  who  should 
be  first  sacrificed  to  their  father's  caprice.  This  affecting 
dispute  was  carried  on  with  so  much  tenderness,  as  quite 
melted  the  emir.  At  this  instant  a  lion  jumped  out  of  the 
thicket  and  made  at  Giendar,  who,  in  his  fright,  dropped 
his  scimitar  and  fled. 

Notwithstanding  his  haste,  he  must  soon  have  been 
destroyed,  if  Amgrad  had  not  taken  pity  of  him.  He 
caught  up  the  scimitar  and  encountered  the  furious  beast 
at  the  moment  he  was  about  to  seize  the  emir,  and,  by  a 
fortunate  stroke,  felled  him  to  the  ground  and  slew  him. 

Giendar,  thus  rescued  from  destruction,  threw  himself 
at  the  feet  of  his  deliverer.  "I  should  be,"  said  he,  "the 
most  unworthy  of  mankind  if  I  could  now,  for  a  moment, 
entertain  a  thought  of  performing  the  horrid  task  I  came 
here  to  execute.  Go,  unfortunate  princes,''  continued  he, 
"Heaven  will  no  doubt  protect  your  innocence.  Go,  and 
seek  from  fortune  a  more  favorable  country;  only  give  me 
your  upper  garments  that  I  may  produce  them  to  the  king 
as  a  proof  that  I  have  obeyed  him."  The  princes  complied 
in 


218  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and  gave  him  their  garments,  which  the'emir  dipped  in 
the  blood  of  the  lion  ;  and  then  with  many  expressions  of 
gratitude  and  affection,  he  bade  them  farewell. 

On  Giendar's  return  to  court,  Camaralzaman  was  very 
inquisitive  to  know  in  what  manner  his  sons  had  submitted 
to  their  fate,  and  whether  they  had  confessed  their  guilt. 
The  emir  told  the  king  that  they  had  received  his  order 
with  the  most  dutiful  resignation ;  that  they  protested 
their  innocence  with  their  last  "breath,  and  died  blessing 
their  royal  father,  who  had  been  led  by  the  deceit  and 
wickedness  of  others  to  destroy  his  children. 

The  king  was  much  affected  by  this  account.  A  sudden 
impulse  led  him. to  examine  the  clothes  of  his  sons.  In 
their  pockets  he  found  the  letters  they  had  received  from 
their  new  favorites,  who  had  wrought  their  destruction. 
The  whole  truth  at  once  flashed  on  the  unhappy  Camaral- 
zaman. He  saw  with  horror  the  guilt  and  miser}1"  into 
which  he  had  been  misled.  As  some  atonement,  he  imme- 
diately banished  his  betrayers,  separately,  to  the  most 
remote  parts  of  his  dominions;  where  they  ended  their 
days  in  prison,  after  many  years  spent  in  solitude,  and  in 
those  tormenting  reflections  which  wickedness  ever  excites 
in  the  minds  of  her  unhappy  votaries. 

The  two  unfortunate  princes  wandered  some  months  in 
a  trackless  country,  passing  over  mountains  scarce  acces- 
sible, and  through  forests  they  could  with  difficulty  pene- 
trate, living  on  such  fruits  and  herbs  as  they  could  find, 
and  watching  by  turns  at  night  to  guard  against  the  wild 
beasts. 

At  length  they  arrived  within  sight  of  a  large  city. 
When  they  drew  near  it,  they  agreed  that  one  of  them  only 
should  enter  it,  and  learn  what  sort  of  people  inhabited 
it.  After  much  dispute  who  should  go,  each  wishing  to 
shield  the  other  from  danger  by  exposing  himself  to  it, 
they  agreed  to  draw  lots;  when  the  chance  falling  to 
Assad,  he  took  a  tender  leave  of  his  brother,  whom  he  left 
n  a  grove  not  far  from  the  city. 

As  soon  as  Assad  arrived  there,  he  inquired  of  a  rever- 
end  n\d  man   which  was  the   way  Jo  the  market-place. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  219 

being  desirous  to  purchase  provisions  for  his  own  and  his 
brother's  refreshment.  The  old  man  was  well  dressed, 
and  appeared  respectable.  He  answered  very  obligingly, 
"That,  seeing  he  was  a  stranger,  he  would  walk  with  him 
thither."  They  chatted  as  they  passed  along;  and  the 
old  man  contrived  to  represent  himself  to  the  unsuspect- 
ing prince  as  a  wonder  of  honesty  and  goodness.  When 
they  came  to  a  great  house,  the  old  man  said,  "  Son,  you 
must  needs  be  weary  ;  this  is  my  house,  which  I  entreat 
you  to  enter,  and  let  me  set  before  you  such  fare  as  it 
affords;  after  which  1  will  attend  you  to  any  part  of  the 
city."  The  prince,  who  was  really  fatigued,  and  had  also 
formed  a  very  good  opinion  of  his  conductor,  thankfully 
accepted  his  invitation. 

The  old  man  led  Assad  through  a  long  passage  into  a 
hall,  where  there  were  forty  other  persons,  who  made  a 
circle  round  a  flaming  fire,  which  they  adored.  The  prince 
was  shocked  with  their  impiety;  but  his  attention  was 
soon  taken  up  with  his  own  concerns.  The  old  cheat  sa- 
luted the  company,  saying,  "  Devout  adorers  of  fire,  this 
is  a  fortunate  day  for  us.  This  young  Mussulman  will  be 
an  acceptable  sacrifice  to  our  divinity.  Gazban,"  continued 
he,  addressing  himself  to  the  black  slave,  "  do  you  take 
him,  and  prepare  him,  by  proper  chastisement,  for  the 
holy  festival;  and  let  my  daughters,  Bostava  and  Oavama, 
regulate  his  diet,  that  he  may  be  fit  to  be  offered  up  when 
the  next  ship  departs  for  the  blue  sea  and  the  fiery  moun- 
tain." 

Assad  saw  all  resistance  was  in  vain.  He  disdained  to 
expostulate  with  the  hoary  traitor,  who  had  deceived 
him,  and  submitted  with  fortitude  to  his  fate.  Gazban 
loaded  him  with  chains,  and  threw  him  into  a  dungeon, 
where  he  failed  not  to  visit  him  often,  and  administer  tho 
discipline  of  the  whip. 

Once  a  day  Bostava  and  Cavama  attended  him  with  the 
coarsest  food;  and  as  he  was  chained  hands  and  feet,  they 
fed  him.  All  the  time  they  reproached  and  mortified  him 
by  every  insult  and  barbarity  in  their  power.  While  they 
thus  obeyed  their  father,  and  performed  as  they  supposed 


220  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

an  acceptable  service  to  their  deity,  Cavairta  gratified  a 
furious  and  malignant  zeal ;  but  Bostava  was  of  a  more 
gentle  nature,  and  whenever  she  could,  with  safety  to 
herself,  she  did  him  kind  offices. 

Amgrad  waited  for  his  brother's  return  with  extreme 
impatience,  and  at  length  resolved  to  enter  the  city  in 
search  of  him.  On  his  arrival,  he  was  surprised  to  find  so 
few  people  in  the  habit  of  Mussulmans.  At  length  seeing 
one  of  that  description  at  work  in  his  shop,  he  asked  him 
the  name  of  the  city,  and  how  '^  came  to  pass  that  he  met 
so  few  of  the  faithful  in  it.  L  Brother,"  replied  the  tailor, 
"I  perceive  that  you  are  a  stranger;  if  you  will  come  in 
and  sit  down,  I  can  converse  with  you  freely,  and  will 
give  you  advice  which  may  be  of  use  to  you."  Amgrad 
accepted  his  invitation,  and  being  very  anxious  about 
Assad,  he  began  to  inquire,  with  great  earnestness,  if  he 
had  seen  or  heard  of  such  a  person. 

"Alas  !  sir,"  replied  the  friendly  tailor,  "  I  have  not  seen 
him ;  and  I  very  much  fear  you  will  never  see  him  again. 
This  city  is  called  the  city  of  Magicians,  because  most 
of  the  inhabitants  are  of  that  description.  They  are  all 
adorers  of  fire,  and  bear  a  mortal  hatred  to  the  true  be- 
lievers. They  dare  not  assault  us  of  that  faith,  who  are 
inhabitants  of  the  city;  but  if  a  stranger  Mussulman  falls 
into  their  hands,  he  is  seldom  heard  of  more.'  Do  not, 
however,  give  way  to  fruitless  grief;  you  shall  live  with 
me  till  you  have  learned  the  customs  of  the  place,  and  then 
you  will  be  in  perfect  safety." 

Amgrad  accepted  the  tailor's  invitation,  and  continued 
with  him  for  more  than  a  month,  without  once  stirring 
out  of  doors.  At  length,  weary  with  so  long  a  confine- 
ment, and  thinking  he  had  learned  sufficient  caution  from 
the  conversation  of  his  host,  he  ventured  to  go  to  the 
public  baths. 

On  his  return,  he  fell  into  a  scrape  which  had  nearly 
proved  fatal  to  him.  A  beautiful  wanton  accosted  him, 
and  removing  her  veil,  discovered  charms  which  were-ir- 
resistible  ;  after  conversing  with  him  for  some  time,  she 
frankly  offered  to  go  home  and  dine  with  him.     Amgrad 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  221 

durst  not  conduct  her  to  the  house  of  his  friendly  tailor  ; 
yet  he  had  no  mind  to  refuse  her  offer.  In  this  uncertainty 
he  resolved  to  throw  himself  upon  chance.  He  walked 
on  from  street  to  street,  the  lady  following  him,  till  they 
both  were  weary.  They  came  at  length  to  a  large  gate, 
which  had  a  seat  on  each  side  of  it,  on  one  of  which  Am- 
grad  seated  the  lady,  and  sat  down  himself  on  the  other. 

The  lady  asked  him  if  that  was  the  door  of  his  house. 
He  inconsiderately  replied  it  was.  "  Why  do  you  not  go 
in  then?"  said  the  lady;  "it  is  not  decent  for  me  to  sit 
here."  The  prince,  by  this  time,  had  begun  to  reflect 
upon  his  situation,  &,nd  earnestly  wished  to  get  rid  of  his 
companion;  he  told  her,  therefore,  that  his  slave  had  the 
key,  and  he  feared  would  not  return  for  a  great  while,  as 
he  frequently  stayed  long  on  his  errands. 

The  lady  abused  and  threatened  the  absent  slave;  and 
taking  up  a  stone,  broke  the  lock,  which  was  only  wood, 
and  weak,  according  to  the  fashion  of  the  country.  She 
then  led  Amgrad  into  a  spacious  hall,  where  they  found 
a  table  spread  with  all  sorts  of  dainties,  a  side-board  cov- 
ered with  choice  fruit,  and  a  cistern  full  of  bottles  of  choice 
wiue.  The  sight  of  such  a  provision  gave  the  prince  a 
high  opinion  of  the  owner's  quality,  and  of  his  own  danger 
in  thus  daring  to  intrude  upon  him. 

The  lady  sat  down  to  the  table,  and  ate  and  drank 
heartily,  obliging  Amgrad  to  bear  her  company.  The 
prince  was  astonished  that  in  a  house  so  rich  and  plenti- 
fully furnished,  there  should  be  no  servant.  He  began  to 
hope  that  he  might  finish  the  intrigue  before  they  or 
their  master  should  arrive  ;  when,  on  a  sudden,  he  saw  a 
uian  thrust  his  head  in  at  the  door,  and  beckon  to  him. 
The  lady  sat  with  her  back  to  the  door  and  did  not  see 
him;  but  Amgrad,  more  dead  than  alive,  got  up,  and 
making  a  slight  excuse,  went  out. 

The  house  belonged  to  Bahader,  master  of  the  horse  to 
the  king  of  Magicians.  He  had  a  residence  elsewhere; 
and  only  kept  this  for  the  occasional  reception  of  certain 
friends,  whom  he  used  to  meet  here  in  disguise. 

Banader  was   alone  when   he   came  to  his  house,  and 
19* 


222  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT* 

found  it  broken  open.  On  entering  the  hall,  he  saw  a 
young  gentleman  and  lady  eating  refreshments  he  had 
provided  ftr  his  friends.  He  was  a  person  of  great  good- 
nature, and  supposing  something  extraordinary  had  oc- 
casioned the  intrusion,  he  determined  to  beckon  out  the 
gentleman,  and  come  to  an  explanation  with  him  alone, 
rather  than  question  him  before  the  lady. 

The  prince,  when  he  came  out  to  Bahader,  was  covered 
with  confusion.  He  ingenuously  told  the  master  of  the 
horse  the  wbole  truth,  revealing  at  the  same  time  his 
quality.  Bahader,  with  much  good-hnmor,  told  hhn  he 
would  not  interrupt  his  frolic.  "I  will  send,"  said  he, 
"and  forbid  my  friends  corning  to-day;  and  as  you  have 
no  slave,  I  will  take  that  office  upon  me ;  I  desire  you 
will  behave  to  me  as  if  I  was  really  so,  that  you  may  not 
suffer  in  the  opinion  of  your  mistress."  Amgrad  paid  his 
acknowledgments  to  Bahader,  and  returned  to  the  lady 
in  much  higher  spirits  than  when  he  left  her. 

Shortly  after,  the  master  of  the  horse,  having  put  on 
the  habit  of  a  slave,  entered  the  hall  with  humility  suit- 
able to  the  character  he  had  assumed.  On  his  appearance 
the  lady  rated  him  in  the  harshest  terms  for  not  being  in 
the  way  when  his  master  returned.  Not  content  with 
this,  she  seized  a  stick,  and  began  to  beat  him  with  great 
severity.  Amgrad  presently  rescued  him,  and,  when  she 
could  beat  him  no  longer,  she  sat  down,  threatening  and 
cursing  him. 

'They  continued  together  in  the  hall,  eating  fruit  and 
drinking  wine,  till  evening  ;  and,  as  often  as  the  supposed 
slave  appeared,  the  lady  muttered  against  him  harsh 
threats  and  the  most  reproachful  names.  When  it  grew 
late,  Bahader  fell  asleep  in  the  adjoining  chamber.  The 
lady,  hearing  him  snore,  seized  Amgrad's  scimitar,  and 
besought  him  to  let  her  put  his  slave  to  death.  The  prince 
endeavored  in  vain  to  pacify  her.  Her  rage  increasing,  as 
they  disputed,  she  drew  the  scimitar,  and  vowed  she 
would  dispatch  him,  even  without  his  master's  consent. 
u  It  is  enough,  madam,"  said  Amgrad,  "  the  slave  shall  die, 
since  you  desire  it;  but  give  me  the  scimitar;  I  should  be 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  223 

BOrry  he  should  fall  by  any  hand  but  ray  own."  She  re- 
stored him  the  scimitar,  which  he  lifted  up,  and  at  one 
blow  cut  off  her  head,  which  fell  upon  Bahader  and 
awakened  him. 

The  master  of  the  horse  was  amazed  to  see  Amgrad 
with  a  sabre  all  bloody,  and  the  body  of  the  lady  headless 
on  the  ground.  The  prince  told  him  what  had  passed, 
and  added,  "  I  'iad  no  way  of  preserving  your  life,  but  by 
putting  an  end  to  hers."  Bahader  was  much  shocked  and 
alarmed.  He  knew  that,  as  private  assassinations  were 
sometimes  committed  in  the  city,  the  police  were  very 
watchful  in  detecting,  and  the  king  very  rigorous  in  pun- 
ishing them.  Yet  how  great  soever  the  danger,  he  could 
not  blame  the  prince  who  had  preserved  him.  He  put 
the  body  in  a  sack,  and,  taking  leave  of  Amgrad,  said, 
"  You,  sir,  who  are  a  stranger,  can  neither  judge  of  the 
necessity  of  removing  the  body,  nor  are  you  sufficiently 
acquainted  with  the  city  to  carry  it  to  the  sea,  where  it 
must  be  thrown ;  but,  as  you  put  the  lady  to  death  to  save 
m}^  life,  it  is  proper  I  should  take  the  risk  that  may  at- 
tend that  action  on  myself." 

Bahader  set  out  accordingly,  with  the  sack  over  his 
shoulder.  He  had  not  got  far  when  he  was  met  by  one 
of  the  magistrates,  whose  officers  stopped  and  searched 
him.  He  was  immediately  taken  into  custody,  and  the 
next  morning,  in  compliment  to  his  situation  as  one  of 
the  royal  domestics  was  brought  before  the  king.  But 
all  defence  was  in  vain,  when  the  dead  body  was  produced. 
The  king  was  so  enraged,  that  he  ordered  execution  to 
take  place  immediately  ;  and  a  crier  was  sent  through  tho 
city  to  give  public  notice  of  his  crime  and  punishment. 

Luckily  the  crier  stopped  under  the  window  of  the  house 
where  Prince  Amgrad  was.  As  soon  as  he  heard  the  pro- 
clamation, he  took  his  resolution.  He  inquired  his  way 
to  the  royal  palace,  and  requested  an  audience  of  the  king, 
as  the  son  of  a  neighboring  prince.  Being  introduced,  he 
related  all  that  had  befallen  him,  and  fully  exculpated  the 
master  of  the  horse.  The  king  was  highly  pleased  with 
the  behavior  of  Aragrad;  he  readily  pardoned  Bahader 


224  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and,  soon  after,  finding  the  prince  a  young  man  of  great 
abilities,  he  appointed  him  to  the  important  office  of  grand 
vizier,  which  happened  to  be  vacant. 

Assad,  in  the  meantime,  continued  in  the  dungeon.  The 
solemn  festival  of  the  adorers  of  fire  approached,  and  a 
ship  was  fitted  out  for  the  fiery  mountain,  as  usual,  under 
command  of  one  Behram,  an  able  sailor,  but  a  rigid  zealot 
to  that  religion. 

From  the  time  Prince  Amgrad  was  appointed  grand 
vizaer,  he  was  indefatigable  in  searching  after  his  beloved 
brother;  and  when  he  heard  the  ship  was  about  to  sail  for 
the  fiery  mountain,  as  he  had  reason  to  fear  that  Assad 
had  /alien  into  the  hands  of  the  worshippers  of  fire,  he  re- 
solved to  search  that  ship  with  the  utmost  strictness.  He 
delayed  the  examination  till  the  ship  had  begun  to  sail, 
when  going  on  board  with  proper  assistance,  he  obliged 
the  captain  to  return  into  the  harbor.  He  then  superin- 
tended the  search  himself,  and  examined  every  part  of 
the  ship  with  the  most  scrupulous' attention  ;  but  in  vain, 
for  Behram  had  conveyed  the  prince  on  board  in  a  chest 
half  full  of  merchandise,  leaving  only  room  for  him  to 
breathe,  and  had  stowed  it  in  at  the  bottom  of  the  hold. 

Amgrad,  thus  disappointed,  permitted  the  ship  to  pro- 
ceed. Soon  after  they  had  sailed,  a  violent  storm  drove 
them  out  of  their  course,  and  when  it  abated,  they  bad 
the  mortification  to  find  themselves  at  the  entrance  of  the 
port  and  capital  of  Queen  Margiana,  a  devout  Moham- 
medan, and  so  zealous  against  the  worshippers  of  fire,  that 
she  had  banished  them  her  dominions,  and  forbade  their 
ships  to  touch  at  any  of  her  ports  under  the  severest 
penalty. 

In  this  situation,  exposed  to  certain  destruction  if  they 
continued  out  at  sea,  and  with  scarce  any  hope  of  escape 
if  they  ventured  to  land,  the  captain  applied  to  his  unfor- 
tunate prisoner;  he  took  off  his  chains,  and  exacted  a 
solemn  oath,  that  he  should  act  as  he  was  directed,  and 
on  no  account  declare  his  own  situation.  Assad,  having 
conformed  to  this  request,  was  clothed  in  a  very  neat  dress, 
as  he  was  to  pass  for  a  superior  slave ;  after  which  Behram 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  225 

boldly  steered  his  vessel  into  the  port,  and  anchored  closo 
to  the  gardens  of  the  palace. 

As  the  storm  had  not  yet  entirely  subsided,  and  the  ship 
lay  at  the  farthest  extent  of  the  port,  it  was  some  hours 
before  the  captain  was  summoned  to  attend  the  queen, 
and  give  an  account  of  his  vessel.  Behram  only  wished 
to  gain  time,  that  the  weather  might  become  fine  again  ; 
he  delayed,  therefore,  leaving  his  ship  as  long  as  possible, 
and  at  length  set  forward  slowly,  taking  Assad  with  him. 

Behram  hoped  that  Margiana,  seeing  a  Mussulman  with 
him,  would  not  inquire  very  particularly  about  the  rest 
of  the  crew.  If  she  did,  he  intended  to  present  Assad  to 
her  as  a  slave,  which  he  doubted  not  would  be  acceptable 
to  her,  and  that,  in  return,  she  would  allow  them  to  re- 
main in  port.  But  as  the  weather,  during  his  delay,  had 
become  more  moderate,  before  he  was  admitted  to  the 
queen's  presence,  he  altered  his  intention  of  parting  with 
Assad,  whom  he  again  hoped  to  keep  for  the  sacrifice. 

The  queen  was  greatly  taken  with  the  supposed  slave. 
After  a  few  questions  to  the  captain,  she  turned  to  the 
prince,  and  asked  him  his  name:  The  unfortunate  youth, 
restrained  by  his  oath  from  declaring  his  situation,  with 
tears  in  his  eyes  desired  the  queen  would  tell  him  if  she 
wished  to  know  his  former  or  his  present  name.  "Have 
you  two  names?"  replied  the  queen.  "I  have,  madam," 
replied  he;  "  my  former  name  was  Assad  (most  happy); 
my  present  one  is  Morcar  (devoted  to  be  sacrificed)." 

Though  Margiana  did  not  find  out  from  these  expres- 
sions the  true  situation  that  the  prince  was  ift,  yet  she 
understood  that  he  was  unhappy.  Something  in  his  air 
and  manner  seemed  to  distinguish  him;  her  partiality 
was  confirmed,  and  her  pity  awakened  by  his  answer. 
She  said,  therefore,  to  the  captain,  "  Either  sell  me  this 
slave,  or  give  him  to  me.  Perhaps  it  will  turn  most  to 
your  account  to  do  the  latter." 

Behram  bluntly  answered  he  would  neither  sell  nor  give 
him;  on  which  the  queen  replied,  in  anger,  "Then  I  will 
seize  him  ;  and  do  you  leave  my  port  directly,  or  I  will 
confiscate  your  vessel."     Saying  this,  she  led  the  prince 

9 


226  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

into  the  pa-ace.     Behram  withdrew  greatly  mortified,  and 
prepared  to  put  to  sea  immediately. 

The  queen  conducted  Assad  into  her  apartment,  and 
desired  he  would  tell  her  who  he  was,  and  by  what  means 
he  came  into  the  power  of  the  captain.  Assad  concealed 
nothing  from  her.  When  the  queen  heard  that  he  was  of 
royal  birth,  she  was  no  longer  unwilling  to  indulge  a  pas- 
sion she  had  before  begun  to  feel  for  him  of  the  most  ten- 
der kind,  and  her  indignation  against  the  adorers  of  fire 
increased  in  proportion. 

'As  evening  drew  on,  she  ordered  supper  to  be  served 
early ;  saying,  with  a  smile,  "  We  must  endeavor,  prince, 
to  make  you  some  amends  for  the  bad  meals  you  have  had 
since  you  fell  into  the  hands  of  these  barbarians."  An 
elegant  repast  was  served,  and  the  queen  ordered  Assad 
to  be  supplied  liberally  with  wine  to  raise  his  spirits.  But 
this  kindness  was  attended  with  mischievous  consequences. 
The  prince,  after  supper,  finding  he  had  drunk  too  much 
wine,  withdrew  into  the  garden,  and  coming  to  a  fountain, 
he  washed  his  hands  and  face  to  refresh  himself,  after 
which  he  sat  down,  and  the  liquor  overpowering  him,  he 
fell  asleep. 

Meanwhile  Behram,  'dreading  the  consequence  of  Assad 
explaining  his  former  situation  to  the  queen,  hastened  on 
board,  and  prepared  to  sail.  But  they  were  short  of  water, 
and  as  he  did  not  dare  to  apply  to  the  city  for  relief,  he 
resolved  on  a  bold  measure.  The  ship  lay  close  to  the 
royal  gardens;  it  was  now  night;  he  ordered  his  men  to 
roll  the  casks  to  the  fountain  that  was  in  the  middle  of 
them,  and  trusted  that,  as  it  was  dark,  he  might  fill  them 
unobserved. 

While  some  of  the  sailors  were  thus  employed,  others 
rambled  to  the  other  side  of  the  fountain,  where  they 
discovered  Assad  asleep.  They  knew  him  immediately ; 
they  seized  and  conveyed  him,  still  asleep,  on  board  the 
ship.  The  captain,  overjoyed  that  he  had  so  unexpectedly 
recovered  his  captive,  soon  completed  his  watering,  and 
eet  sail  for  the  fiery  mountain. 

While  this  passed  on  board  the  ship,  the  queen  began  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  221 

be  much  alarmed  that  Assad  did  not  return.  She  sent 
beveral  of  her  s  aves  into  the  garden  in  search  of  him ;  and 
on  their  returning  without  success,  she  ordered  a  party  of 
her  guards  to  attend  her  with  lighted  torches  for  the  same 
purpose.  When  they  came  to  the  fountain,  they  found  a 
slipper,  which  the  queen  remembered  to  have  seen  worn 
by  Assad ;  the  sailors  had  left  sufficient  marks  to  trace 
them  to  the  shore  where  they  had  taken  in  their  water; 
and  Behram's  vessel  having  put  to  sea,  left  Margiana  no 
doubt  of  the  prince's  misfortune. 

There  lay  at  that  time  in  the  port,  ready  for  sailing,  ten 
of  the  queen's  men-of-war.  Without  waiting  for  daylight, 
Margiana  went  on  board  one  of  these  ships,  and  ordered 
the  commander  to  put  to  sea  with  the  whole  fleet,  and 
pursue  the  merchantman;  promising  to  give  the  ship  and 
cargo  as  plunder  to  any  captain  who  should  be  so  fortu- 
nate as  to  overtake  her. 

They  came  in  sight  of  the  prize  next  morning,  and 
spread  themselves  so  wide,  that  Behram  soon  saw  it  was 
impossible  to  escape.  In  this  situation,  the  captain  durst 
not  be  found  with  Assad  on  board ;  nor  would  he  venture 
to  kill  him,  lest  some  accidental  circumstance  should  be- 
tray the  outrage.  t  He  commanded  him,  therefore,  to  be 
brought  up  out  of  the  hold,  and  thrust  him  overboard. 

Assad  was  an  expert  swimmer,  and  as  they  were  fortu- 
nately at  no  great  distance  from  the  shore,  he  made  shift 
to  reach  it.  Having  returned  thanks  to  heaven  for  his 
escape,  and  refreshed  himself  with  such  herbs  and  fruits 
as  he  could  find,  he  travelled  along  the  coast,  without 
knowing  where  it  would  lead  him.  On  the  evening  of 
the  eleventh  day,  he  discovered  the  city  of  Magicians, 
which  he  immediately  knew.  He  set  forward  toward  it 
with  great  spirit,  and  having  gained  wisdom  by  his  mis- 
fortunes, he  resolved  to  speak  to  no  one  but  Mussulmans; 
Jmt  before  he  could  reach  the  city,  the  gates  were  shut,  and 
he  was  obliged  to  take  shelter  for  that  night  in  one  of  the 
tombs  in  an  adjoining  cemetery. 

Behram,  when  he  had  thrown  the  prince  overboard,  as 
he  plainly  saw  it  was  impossible  to  escape  from  Margiana's 


228  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

fleet,  did  not  attempt  it.  He  lay  to,  till  the  ship  in  whiCb 
the  queen  was  came  up  with  him,  when  he  lowered  his 
sails  as  a  token  of  his  yielding. 

The  queen  herself  came  on  board,  and  demanded  where 
the  slave  was  whom  he  had  the  boldness  to  take  away 
from  her,  out  of  her  very  palace.  Bebram  vowed  the 
slave  was  n6*t  in  his  ship,  which  be  desired  might  be 
searched,  and  appealed  to  the  issue  of  that  search  to  tes- 
tify his  innocence. 

The  most  exact  survey  was  made.  Every  box,  every 
package,  was  opened  to  no  purpose.  The  queen  hesitated. 
As  it  was  possible  Assad  might  have  escaped,  she  would 
not  put  Behram  and  his  companions  to  death  ;  yet  she 
was  so  much  enraged  that  she  ordered  them  to  be  put  on 
shore,  and  delivered  up  the  ship  and  cargo  to  the  com- 
mander, as  she  had  promised. 

Behram  and  his  seamen  knew  the  country  where  they 
were  landed,  and  set  off  immediately  for  the  city  of  Ma- 
gicians, where  they  arrived  the  same  night  that  Assad 
did ;  and  for  the  same  reason  were  obliged  to  take  shelter 
among  the  tombs.  In  the  morning,  the  prince  was  seized 
by  them ;  and  as  soon  as  the  gates  were  open,  they  con- 
veyed him  in  the  midst  of  them  to  the  house  of  his  former 
persecutor. 

He  was  received  with  shouts  of  joy,  interrupted  by 
reproaches  and  curses,  and  conducted  to  his  former  dun- 
geon. While  he  was  lamenting  the  severity  of  his  for- 
tune, which  had  again  so  strangely  betrayed  him  into  the 
hands  of  his  cruel  tormentors,  Bostava  entered  with  a 
cudgel,  a  loaf,  and  a  pitcher. 

Assad,  overcome  with  so  many  calamities,  felt  his  heart 
sink  within  him  at  the  sight  of  one  he  had  so  much  reason 
to  dread ;  but  he  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find  his  ter- 
rors groundless.  Bostava,  instead  of  treating  him  with 
beverity,  loosened  his  chains  and  set  before  him  some 
choice  provisions  and  pleasant  sherbet.  When  he  had 
refreshed  himself,  she  assured  him  that  he  was  entirely 
Bafe  from  those  indignities  he  dreaded.  "  Since  you  were 
here,"  she  said,  "a  slave,  who  is  a  Mussulman,  has  con- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  229 

verted  ran  to  the  true  religion.  This  is  an  entire  secret 
in  the  family.  As  soon  as  I  had  heard  you  were  brought 
again  a  prisoner,  I  petitioned  to  have  the  sole  care  of  you, 
and  as  that  request  was  supposed  to  arise  from  my  devo- 
tion to  the  fire,  it  was  readily  granted.  By  this  means  it 
is  in  my  power  to  secure  you  from  every  evil  except  con- 
finement, and  I  will  diligently  watch  for  an  opportunity 
to  set  you  at  liberty." 

The  prince  was  transported  at  this  fortunate  event.  He 
related  to  Bostava  who  he  was,  and  said  everything  he 
could  imagine,  to  strengthen  her  belief  in  the  Mohamme- 
dan religion.  A  few  days  afterward,  as  she  was  standing 
at  her  father's  door,  she  saw  the  grand  vizier  at  the  head 
of  a  procession,  and  heard  a  crier  proclaim  a  great  reward 
to  any  one  who  would  give  information  of  the  prince 
Assad.  As  no  one  was  in  the  way  at  that  time  who  could 
control  her,  she  hastened  to  the  dungeon,  and  saying  to 
the  prince,  "Follow  me  quickly!"  she  conducted  him  to 
the  door,  and  showed  him  the  procession  where  he  would 
find  his  brother. 

Assad  fled  from  a  house  in  which  he  had  suffered  so 
much,  and  presented  himself  to  Amgrad,  who  instantly 
knew  him.  Their  meeting  was  inexpressibly  tender. 
After  the  turbulence  of  their  joy  had  a  little  subsided, 
Amgrad  conducted  his  brother  to  the  palace,  and  pre- 
sented him  to  the  king,  who  immediately  appointed  him 
one  of  his  viziers.  The  treatment  Assad  had  received 
from  the  worshippers  of  fire,  was  of  course  related  to  the 
sovereign,  who  in  rage  ordered  their  houses  to  be  razed  to 
the  ground.  The  old  man,  his  daughter  Cavama,  and 
Behram,  were  taken  and  ordered  to  be  put  to  death  ;  but 
Bostava  entreated  Prince  Assad  to  intercede  for  them ; 
and  they  were  pardoned  on  condition  of  their  becoming 
Mohammedans,  to  which  they  agreed. 

Some  time  after  these  things,  the  princes  determined  to 
return  to  their  father's  court,  not  doubting  but  he  was  by 
this  time  convinced  of  their  innocence.  They  resigned 
their  offices  to  the  king  of  the  Magicians,  and  thanked 
him  for  his  protection.  They  were  aotually  taking  leave 
20 


230  AEABIAN   NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  their  royal  benefactor,  when  a  tumult  was  heard,  and 
an  officer  came  in,  hastily,  with  a  notice  that  a  numerous 
army  was  advancing  against  the  city. 

The  king  being  exceedingly  alarmed,  Amgrad  proposed 
that  he  should  set  out  to  meet  the  invaders  with  a  smal 
retinue,  and  inquire  the  cause  of  this  hostile  appearance 
This  counsel  being  approved,  Amgrad  set  out  accordingly 
and  on  his  arrival  was  conducted  to  a  princess  who  com 
manded  the  army.  In  answer  to  the  prince's  inquiries 
she  told  him  that  she  had  no  quarrel  with  the  king  of  the 
Magicians.  "  I  come,"  said  she,  "  to  require,  in  good  friend 
ship,  a  slave  named  Assad,  to  be  given  up  to  me,  and  to 
demand  punishment  of  one  Behram,  a  captain  of  a  ship 
who  insolently  carried  him  away  in  defiance  of  me.  I 
hope  your  king  will  do  me  justice  when  he  knows  that  I 
am  Margiana." 

"  Mighty  queen,"  replied  Amgrad,  "  the  slave  to  whom 
you  do  so  much  honor,  is  my  brother;  if  your  majesty  will 
permit  me  to  conduct  you  to  my  master's  palace,  I  will 
present  him  to  you."  Margiana  was  rejoiced  at  this  ac- 
count. Stfie  ordered  her  army  to  encamp  where  they 
were,  and  set  out  immediately  for  the  palace.  The  king 
received  her  as  became  her  dignity,  and  Assad  paid  his 
duty  to  her  in  a  manner  which  highly  delighted  her. 

"While  they  were  thus  engaged,  news  came  that  another 
army  still  more  numerous  drew  near.  This  was  led  by 
G-aiour,  king  of  China.  "  I  come,"  said  he  to  Amgrad, 
"  in  search  of  my  daughter  Badoura,  whom  I  gave  in 
marriage  many  years  ago  to  Camaralzaman,  son  of  Schah- 
zaman,  king  of  Khaledan.  I  have  heard  nothing  of  them 
for  a  long  time.  I  therefore  have  left  my  kingdom,  thus 
attended,  to  find  them  out." 

Amgrad  kissed  the  king's  hand,  and  informed  him  that 
he  was  his  grandson.  'Giaour  greatly  rejoiced  at  this  un. 
expected  meeting,  ordered  his  troops  to  pitch  their  tents, 
and  went  with  Amgrad  to  the  palace. 

A  great  dutt  was  now  seen  to  rise  opposite  another  quarter 
of  tho  town.  The  princes  immediately  rode  thither,  and 
found  it  was  Oamaralzaman,  their  father,  at  the  head  of  a 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  231 

third  army.  He  had  been  so  afflicted  for  the  loss  of  his  sons, 
that  at  last  the  emir  G-iendar  ventured  to  tell  him  that  ho 
had  spared  their  lives,  and  that  they  had  set  forward  for 
the  city  of  the  Magicians. 

Camaralzaman  embraced  his  children  with  the  most 
animated  affection  ;  their  filial  duty  made  them  at  once 
forget  their  former  ill-treatment,  and  return  his  caresses 
with  unfeigned  love. 

A  fourth  army  approached  the  city.  The  venerable 
Schahzaman  came  thus  attended,  in  search  of  Camaralza- 
man ;  the  latter  prince  was  overcome  with  shame  and 
grief  on  hearing  this  account:  he  reproached  himself  with 
his  long  neglect  of  the  good  old  king,  who  yet  retained  so 
much  affection  for  him  as  to  disregard  the  fatigue  and 
perils  of  a  long  and  uncertain  journey  to  find  him  out. 
The  king  of  Khaledan  readily  forgave  him,  and  after  a 
few  days'  repose  at  the  city  of  the  Magicians,  (during 
which  time  Assad  espoused  the  queen  Margiana,)  the  prin- 
ces set  out  for  their  respective  territories,  and  Amgrad,  at 
the  request  of  the  king  of  the  Magicians,  who  was  very 
old,  ascended  the  throne  of  that  empire,  which  he  filled 
with  great  ability,  distinguishing  himself  particularly  by 
his  zeal  in  exterminating  the  worship  of  fire,  and  estab- 
lishing the  Mohammedan  religion  throughout  his  domin- 
ions. 

THE    STORY   OF    NOUREDDIN    AND    THE    FAIR   PERSIAN. 

Zinchi,  the  king  of  Balsora,  held  that  crown  as  tribu- 
tary to  the  caliphs  of  Arabia.  The  vassalage  was  so  com- 
plete, that  the  latter  considered  the  sovereigns  of  Balsora 
as  accountable  to  them  for  every  minute  regulation  in 
their  government ;  they  were  frequently  reprimanded,  and 
sometimes  dethroned,  when  their  conduct  did  not  please 
the  commander  of  the  faithful. 

The  appearance  of  regal  dignity  was  kept  up,  notwith- 
standing the  power  was  so  limited;  and  Zinchi  being  of 
an  indolent  disposition,  divided  the  office  of  grand  vizier 
between  his  two  favorites,  Khacan  and  Saouy,  both  men 
of  good  abilities,  but  of  very  opposite  characters.    Khacan 


232  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS. 

was  open,  generous,  affable,  fond  of  obliging,  and,  as  a 
magistrate,  strictly  impartial;  he  was  universally  respected 
and  beloved.  Saouy  was  the  reverse  of  his  colleague ; 
sullen,  morose,  haughty,  insatiably  covetous  though  im- 
mensely rich,  venal,  and  tyrannical;  be  was,  of  course, 
generally  detested;  and  if  anything  could  add  to  the 
popular  aversion,  it  was  his  declared  enmity  to  Khacan, 
the  favorite  of  the  people. 

Such  were  the  ministers  of  the  indolent  Zinchi,  who, 
relying  on  their  talents,  left  to  them  the  care  of  his  gov- 
ernment, and  resigned  himself  to  the  gratification  of  his 
appetites. 

One  day  the  king  was  discoursing  with  his  viziers  and 
great  men  about  women.  Some  were  of  opinion  that  if  a 
woman  had  great  beauty  and  accomplishments,  it  was  as 
much  as  a  man  need  desire.  Saouy  was  an  advocate  for 
this  doctrine  ;  but  Khacan  supported  very  contrary  ideas, 
and  described  so  feelingly  that  love  which  is  founded  on 
esteem,  that  the  king  declared  himself  of  his  opinion  ;  and 
as  Khacan,  in  the  course  of  his  argument,  had  supposed  a 
woman  might  unite  the  more  valuable  qualities  of  the 
heart  with  personal  beauty  and  exterior  graces,  the  k*.ng 
ordered  ten  thousand  pieces  of  gold  to  be  paid  to  him,  and 
directed  him  to  use  all  diligence  in  purchasing  such  a 
woman  as  he  had  described. 

When  the  viziers  withdrew  from  the  royal  presence, 
they  were  both  dissatisfied.  Saouy  was  tormented  at  the 
distinction  with  which  the  king  had  honored  his  rival. 
Khacan  was  exceedingly  grieved  at  receiving  a  commis- 
sion which  he  apprehended  would  involve  him  in  many 
difficulties.  He  immediately  ordered  all  those  persons 
who  dealt  in  slaves  to  give  him  notice  when  any  one  of 
superior  beauty  and  merit  fell  in  their  way.  For  a  long 
time  his  inquiries  were  in  vain  ;  at  last  a  Persian  mer- 
chant produced  a  slave  whose  beauty  and  accomplishments 
were  in  the  highest  perfection. 

The  vizier  paid  the  price  demanded  for  her  by  the 
merchant,  though  it  exceeded  the  sum  deposited  in  hia 
hands  by  the  king.     When  he  was  about  to  conduct  her 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  233 

to  the  palace,  the  merchant  advised  him  to  take  her  home, 
and  let  her  repose  for  a  few  days  after  her  long  journey, 
before  he  introduced  her  to  his  sovereign;  assuring -him 
that  both  her  beauty  and  sprightly  turn  would  appear 
to  greater  advantage  when  she  had  recovered  from  her 
fatigue.  Khacan  approved  of  this  advice,  and  accordingly 
placed  her  in  care  of  his  wife,  and  at  the  same  time  ac- 
quainted the  lovely  Selima  (which  was  her  name)  with 
the  honor  that  awaited  her. 

The  vizier  had  an  only  son,  named  Noureddin,  a  for- 
ward youth  of  good  parts  and  handsome  person,  of  whom 
his  mother  was  so  fond,  that  she  still  continued  to  allow 
him  the  liberty  of  the  women's  apartments,  though  the 
time  of  shutting  him  out  was  several  years  past.  Nou- 
reddin  no  sooner  saw  the  beautiful  Selima,  than  he  became 
a  captive  to  her  charms.  Though  he  knew  his  father  had 
purchased  her  for  the  king,  yet  he  resolved  to  run  all  haz- 
ards rather  than  not  secure  her  to  himself;  nor  did  the 
fair  Persian  see  Noureddin  with  indifference.  Whatever 
honor  or  splendor  she  might  hope  from  being  the  king's 
mistress,  she  would  gladly  have  renounced  them  to  pass 
her  life  with  the  son  of  the  vizier. 

Selima,  having  reposed  for  several  days,  the  minister 
directed  a  costly  bath  to  be  prepared  for  her,  intending  to 
present  her  next  day  to  his  master.  As  these  baths  were 
seldom  prepared,  the  vizier's  lady  ordered  her  slaves  to 
get  bathing-clothes  ready  for  her,  intending  to  enjoy  the 
bath  herself  when  Selima  had  left  it.  All  these  particulars 
Noureddin  learned  from  a  slave  whom  he  had  corrupted. 
Reduced  to  despair,  he  resolved  to  attempt  an  adventure 
the  most  audacious  that  could  be  imagined.  He  concealed 
himself  in  the  women's  apartments,  till  Selima  returned 
to  her  chamber,  and  his  mother  went  to  the  bath.  He  then 
visited  the  fair  Persian  ;  and  having  dismissed  her  attend- 
ants, boldly  told  her  that  his  father  had  altered  his  in- 
tention, and  instead  of  presenting  her  to  the  king,  had 
given  her  to  him.  The  lovely  slave  wished  this  to  be  true, 
and  was  not  therefore  disposed  to  doubt  it. 

Khacan  was  equally  enraged  and  distressed  when  he 
20* 


234  ARABIAN    NIQHTW'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

heard  of  the  violation  his  son  had  committed.  Besides 
being  disappointed  in  presenting  so  beautiful  a  slave  to  his 
master,  he  was  terrified  lest  his  enemy  Saouy  should  come 
to  a  knowledge  of  an  affair  by  which  he  might  effect  his 
destruction.  He  ordered  the  merchants  to  renew  their 
search,  declaring  that  the  fair  Persian  by  no  means  an- 
swered his  expectation  ;  he  frequently  complained  to  the 
king  of  the  many  difficulties  he  found  in  executing  his 
commission  ;  in  short,  he  managed  the  business  with  so 
much  address,  that  Zinchi  insensibly  forgot  it;  and  though 
Saouy  got  some  imperfect  information  of  the  transaction, 
yet  Khacan  was  so  much  in  the  king's  favor,  that  he  was 
afraid  to  speak  of  it.  .  . 

It  was  a  long  time  before  the  vizier  would  suffer  his  son 
to  appear  in  his  presence;  but  time,  which  subdues  all 
things,  at  length  softened  his  anger;  and  as  the  virtues 
of  Selima  engaged  his  esteem,  he  resolved  to  give  her  to 
Noureddin,  if  he  would  promise  not  to  look  upon  her  as  i 
a  slave,  but  as  a  wife.  He  stipulated  also  with  the  young 
man  that  he  would  never  be  divorced  from  her,  much  less 
sell  her.  With  these  conditions  Noureddin  joyfully  com- 
plied ;  and  the  peace  of  the  vizier's  household  was  restored. 

Very  soon  after  these  events,  Khacan  was  seized  with 
a  dangerous  illness,  which  soon  put  an  end  to  his  life. 
When  he  was  on  his  death-bed,  he  renewed  his  injunctions 
to  his  son,  never  to  part  with  the  fair  Persian.  Noureddin 
did  not  hesitate  to  avow  the  most  dutiful  obedience. 

For  a  time  Noureddin  lamented  his  father  sincerely; 
but  the  gayetj"  of  youth  soon  recurred ;  and  when  he 
found  himself  possessed  of  immense  riches,  he  resolved  to 
make  himself  amends  for  the  restraint  he  had  been  under, 
by  gratifying  every  wish  of  his  heart.  He  gave  the  most 
magnificent  and  luxurious  entertainments,  and  drew  about 
him  a  society  of  gay  companions,  among  whom  he  dissi- 
pated his  fortune  with  an  incredible  profusion.  These 
parasites  perpetually  surrounded  him.  In  vain  the  fair 
Selima  (whom  he  continued  to  love  with  undiminished 
ardor)  gently  remonstrated  with  him  on  his  too  abundant 
generosity;    in  vain   his  capful  steward  hinted  to  him, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  235 

that  such  excess  would  soon  empty  a  royal  treasury.  He 
continued  his  extravagant  mode  of  living,  and  lavished 
away  large  sums  in  presents  to  his  companions. 

Nothing  contributed  so  much  to  the  ruin  of  Noureddin's 
fortune  as  his  unwillingness  to  look  into  his  accounts. 
Whenever  his  steward  came  to  lay  before  him  a  state  of 
his  disbursements,  he  always  put  him  aside  with  a  jest,  or 
drove  him  away  with  anger. 

One  morning,  while  he  was  surrounded  by  the  tribe  of 
greedy  sycophants  who  generally  beset  him,  his  steward 
presented  himself  before  him,  and  requested  permission  to 
speak  with  him  alone.  The  air  and  manner  of  the  stew- 
ard, when  he  made  this  request,  indicated  something  unu- 
sual and  disagreeable.  Noureddin  withdrew  with  him; 
and  one  of  the  company,  more  curious  than  the  rest,  fol- 
lowed them  out,  and  so  placed  himself  that  he  could  hear 
all  that  passed  between  them  unobserved. 

The  steward  began  with  lamenting  that  he  had  so  often 
in  vain  remonstrated  with  him.  Noureddin  endeavored 
to  silence  him,  but  he  would  be  heard.  "The  time  is  now 
come,"  said  he,  "  that  you  must  listen  to  me.  Of  all  that 
mass  of  wealth  that  came  into  your  possession  a  year  ago, 
the  few  pieces  in  my  hand  are  the  whole  remainder;  your 
entertainments  therefore  must  be  at  an  end,  or  you  must 
provide  me  with  a  fresh  supply."  Noureddin,  who  had 
been  overwhelmed  by  the  first  part  of  this  conversation, 
began  to  revive  at  the  latter  hint.  "  You  shall  not  long 
want  that  supply,"  said  he;  "I  have  many  friends  at  this 
time  in  my  house,  who  will  rejoice  to  satisfy  my  occasions." 

The  listener,  having  heard  thus  much,  withdrew;  and 
returning  to  his  companions,  repeated  what  had  passed. 
He  had  scarce  made  an  end  of  his  account,  when  Noured- 
din  entered  the  room  also. 

Noureddin  appeared  with  an  affected  air  of  pleasantry 
which  ill  concealed  the,  anguish  of  his  mind.  Ke  was 
considering  whether  it  would  be  better  to  declare  his 
necessities  to  his  friends  now  they  were  together,  or  apply 
to  them  separately;  when  one,  whom  he  had  ever  most 
distinguished,  ros?  up,  and  making  a  slight  apology,  with- 
drew 


236  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Nour3ddin,  without  well  knowing  why,  was  much  af- 
fected at  this.  The  person  who  went  away  was  his  favor- 
ite companion,  had  been  enriched  by  his  bounty,  and  was 
always  one  of  the  last  who  left  him.  While  his  mind 
teemed  with  these  uneasy  reflections,  another,  the  most 
servile  and  cringing  of  the  set,  in  a  pert  and  careless 
manner,  bade  him  good  morning.  The  others  soon  fol- 
lowed; and  in  a  very  short  time  he  was  left  by  himself. 

The  young  man  passed  the  rest  of  the  day  in  melancholy 
reflections  on  his  imprudence.  He  determined  at  length 
to  borrow  a  certain  sum  from  each  of  his  companions, 
with  which  he  would  go  to  some  other  city,  and  commence 
business.  As  there  was  not  one  among  them  who  had 
not  received  tenfold  more  from  his  bounty  than  he  meant 
to  ask,  he  would  not  suffer  the  idea  of  a  refusal  to  disturb 
him.  Having  thus  settled  a  plan  for  his  future  conduct, 
his  mind  became  more  calm,  and  he  withdrew  to  Selima's 
apartment,  to  whom  he  related  his  situation  and  intention. 

The  day  following,  he  set  out  to  visit  his  dear  and  de- 
voted friends;  but  was  so  unfortunate  as  not  to  find  any 
of  them  at  home.  One,  indeed,  convinced  him  he  was  not 
abroad  ;  for  he  heard  him  direct  his  slave  to  say  he  was 
not  at  home,  adding,  "Whenever  that  extravagant  fellow 
comes  here,  give  him  the  same  answer." 

Noureddin  was  equally  enraged  and  ashamed.  He  was 
o-iving  way  to  despair,  when  the  fair  Persian  advised  him 
to  dismiss  his  household,  sell  his  slaves  and  furniture,  and 
try  if  he  could  not  raise  money  enough  from  them  to  carry 
his  plan  into  execution.  Noureddin  embraced  this  prudent 
counsel ;  but  even  in  this  commendable  scheme  he  was  dis- 
appointed. Being  obliged  to  sell,  his  goods  did  not  fetch 
him  half  their  value;  and  a  fit  of  sickness,  the  consequence 
of  his  vexation  and  former  irregularities,  held  him  so  long, 
that,  on  his  recovery,  he  found  the  whole  produce  of  the 
sale  was  expended. 

In  this  extremity  of  distress,  he  once  more  had  recourse 
to  the  advice  of  his  beloved  Selima,  who,  seeing  no  other 
means  of  relief  within  his  reach,  reminded  him  how  much 
money  hia  father  had  paid  for  her.     "  I  am  your  slave/1 


AHAblAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8.  237 

eaid  she;  "you  have  a  right  to  dispose  of  me;  and  how 
muCxi  soever  I  shall  suffer  from  such  an  event,  I  advise  you 
to  sell  me;  and  I  heartily  wish  you  may  not  lose  much  of 
the  sum  your  father  gave  for  me." 

Noureddin  could  not  hear  this  advice  without  feeling  the 
keenest  anguish.  Not  only  his  love  for  the  fair  Persian 
revolted  at  such  an  idea,  but  the  remembrance  of  his 
promise  to  his  father  never  to  part  with  her,  rose  in  his 
mind,  and  made  him  think  of  such  a  measure  with  addi- 
tional regret.  But  invincible  necessity  must  be  submitted 
to.  He  led  her,  with  inexpressible  reluctance,  to  the  mar- 
ket where  women  slaves  are  exposed  for  sale,  and  applied 
to  a  crier,  named  Hagi  Hassan,  to  sell  her. 

The  crier  immediately  knew  the, fair  Persian  was  the 
same  slave  that  Khacan  had  bought  at  so  very  high  a 
price.  He  went  directly  among  the  merchants,  where  he 
exclaimed,  with  great  gayety,  "  My  masters,  everything 
that  is  round  is  not  a  nut ;  everything  that  is  long  is  not 
a  fig ;  all  that  is  red  is  not  flesh ;  and  all  eggs  are  not 
fresh.  You  have  seen  and  bought,  no  doubt,  many  slaves 
in  your  time;  but  you  never  saw  one  comparable  to  her  I 
have  now  to  sell.  Follow  me,  and  see  her;  and  then  name 
the  price  I  ought  to  cry  her  at." 

The  merchants  were  surprised  when  the}'  saw  her,  and 
all  agreed  that  Hagi  Hassan  ought  not  to  begin  with  a 
less  sum  than  four  thousand  pieces  of  gold.  He  began  to 
cry  her  accordingly  at  that  price,  when  the  vizier  St  uy 
chanced  to  enter  the  market,  and  hearing  so  large  a  sum 
asked  for  a  female  slave,  demanded  to  see  her. 

It  was  a  privilege  the  merchants  of  Balsora  enjoyed, 
that  no  person  should  see  a  slave  till  they  had  offered  the 
most  they  chose  to  give.  After  which  any  person  might 
see  her;  and  if  the  stranger  offered  more  money  than  the 
highest  bidder  among  the  merchants,  he  was  declared  the 
purchaser. 

But  Saouy  regarded  no  man's  privilege.  He  demanded 
to  seethe  fair  slave  immediately;  and  finding  her  more 
beautiful  than  he  had  imagined,  he  looked  sternlj-  on  the 
merchants,  and   said,  "I  will    give  the  sum  you  ask  for 


238  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

this  slave  !"  No  one  durst  bid  more  than  the  overbearing 
vizier.  The  merchants  were  obliged  to  submit  to  this 
arrogant  interference ;  and  causing  the  fair  Persian  to  be 
locked  up,  waited  at  the  door,  and  directed  Hagi  Hassan 
to  go  immediately  and  find  the  seller. 

Noureddin  had  retired  out  of  the  market  to  indulge  his 
sorrow  unobserved,  but  had  told  the  crier  where  he  might 
be  found.  Hagi  Hassan  went  to  him,  and  related  to  him 
all  that  had  passed.  If  anything  could  have  aggravated 
Noureddin's  affliction,  it  was  that  Saouy  should  become 
possessed  of  the  fair  Persian.  The  sting  of  this  circum- 
stance made  him  quite  inattentive  to  the  high  price  foi 
which  she  was  to  be  sold.  "  I  swear  to  you,"  replied  he, 
"  I  would  sooner  die  than  part  with  my  slave  for  ten  times 
the  sum,  to  that  enemy  of  our  family  ;  help  me,  I  entreat 
you,  good  Hagi,  to  the  means  of  escaping  this  last  of 
misfortunes." 

"You  must  conduct  yourself  in  this  manner,"  replied 
the  crier,  "  or  the  vizier  will  insist  upon  his  bargain. 
When  I  am  about  to  present  her  to  him,  you  must  catch 
her  by  the  arm,  before  he  touches  her.  You  will  then  give 
her  two  or  three  blows,  and  tell  her  that,  although  her  bad 
temper  made  you  swear  that  you  would  expose  her  to  the 
indignity  of  being  cried  in  the  market,  yet  it  is  not  your 
intent  to  sell  her.  Pull  her  then  again  toward  you,  and 
lead  her  away." 

Noureddfn  followed  this  advice.  When  Saouy  saw  the 
son  of  Khacan  approach,  and  found  he  was -the  owner  of 
the  beautiful  slave,  he  enjoyed  to  the  utmost  his  malicious 
triumph,  and  his  disappointment  was  in  proportion  when 
he  heai'd  him  refuse  to  confirm  the  contract.  He  called 
him  by  the  most  reproachful  names,  and  riding  up  to  the 
fair  Persian,  he  attempted  to  seize  her.  Noureddin  wanted 
not  this  provocation  to  exasperate  him  against  the  vizier. 
He  pulled  him  off  his  horse,  rolled  him  in  the  kennel,  and 
pummelled  his  head  against  the  stones,  till  he  had  almost 
killed  him.  After  which  he  conducted  the  fair  Persian 
home  again. 

Saouy  also  retired,  amidst  the  shouts  and  execrations 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  239 

of  the  people,  who  had  prevented  his  attendants  from  as- 
sisting him.  He  presented  himself  immediately  before 
the  king,  all  bloody  and  dirty  as  he  was,  and  besought 
justice.  On  being  ordered  to  say  on  what  account,  he 
reminded  the  king  of  the  commission  he  had  formerly 
given  to  Khacan.  "  1  saw  by  accident  to-day,"  continued 
he,  "a  most  beautiful  slave,  which  the  profligate  Noured- 
din  was  about  to  sell.  I  had  no  doubt  but  she  was  the 
slave  Khacan  had  bought  for  your  majesty  ;  and  would 
have  reclaimed  her  for  you ;  it  was  for  this  attempt  that 
Noureddin  has  treated  me  thus  cruelly." 

The  king  became  greatly  enraged  on  this  account.  He 
ordered  his  officers  to  seize  Noureddin  and  his  slave,  and 
to  level  his  house  with  the  ground.  One  of  the  royal  at- 
tendants who  heard  the  king's  order,  had  been  appointed 
to  his  office  by  the  vizier  Khacan.  Pull  of  gratitude  to 
the  memory  of  his  benefactor,  he  ran  to  Noureddin's  house, 
and  putting  a  purse  of  gold  in  his  hand,  told  him  briefly 
what  had  happened,  and  charged  him  to  fly  with  speed; 
as,  if  he  was  taken,  the  king  was  too  much  enraged  to 
hear  him,  and  would  certainly  put  him  to  death. 

Noureddin  and  Selima  hastened  toward  the  river,  where 
they  found  a  vessel  on  the  point  of  sailing;  they  embarked 
without  inquiring  whither  she  was  bound,  and  after  a 
short  and  pleasant  voyage  arrived  safely  at  Bagdad. 

When  they  landed,  it  was  evening,  and  having  no  bag- 
gage to  take  care  of,  they  rambled  a  considerable  time 
about  the  gardens  that  bordered  on  the  Tigris.  They 
came  at  length  to  a  porch  on  each  side  of  which  stood  a 
neat  sofa;  and  as  they  were  tired  with  their  walk,  they  sat 
down  on  these  sofas-,  and  after  talking  together  for  some 
time,  they  insensibly  fell  asleep. 

The  porch  was  the  entrance  to  a  garden  belonging  to 
the  caliph,  in  which  was  a  beautiful  pavilion  of  pictures. 
The  charge  of  this  garden  and  pavilion  was  committed  to 
an  ancient  officer,  called  Scheik  Ibrahim,  with  positive 
orders  to  admit  no  person  into  it,  nor  even  to  sit  on  the 
sofas  that  stood  in  the  porch. 

Scheik  Ibrahim  was  absent  \u  the  city  on  business.     Or 


240  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

his  return,  when  he  found  two  people  sleeping  on  the 
sofas,  he  was  so  enraged  that  he  was  going  to  chastise 
them ;  but  seeing  by  the  little  daylight  that  remained,  they 
were  both  handsome,  and  appeared  above  the  rank  of  the 
vulgar,  he  resolved  to  awaken  them,  and  hear  their  apol- 
ogy. *  The  seheik  had  much  good-nature,  and  more  vanity. 
Finding  from  Noureddin's  excuse  that  they  were  strangers 
of  condition,  and  they  taking  him  for  the  owner  of  the 
garden,  he  resolved  to  humor  the  mistake;  he  asked  tbem 
to  walk  in,  and  repose  themselves  in  a  place  more  suitable. 

Tbey  accepted  his  invitation,  and  he  conducted  them 
into  the  garden,  and  showed  them  the  pavilion ;  the  hall 
of  which  was  adorned  with  fourscore  windows,  and  in 
every  window  was  a  branched  candlestick  containing  a 
considerable  number  of  waxlights ;  the  pavilion  was  in 
every  other  respect  truly  magnificent. 

Seheik  Ibrahim  was  exceedingly  taken  with  his  guests  ; 
they  soon  became  familiar  with  each  other,  and  finding 
how  much  they  were  delighted  with  the  hall,  he  deter- 
mined they  should  sup  there.  "I  came  here,"  said  he, 
"  to  pass  the  evening  alone,  and  therefore  have  no  slave 
to  attend  you ;  but  if  you  will  give  me  leave  to  waix,  on 
you,  I  will  supply  all  your  wants." 

When  they  had  supped,  Noureddin  dropped  a  hint  that 
some  wine  would  not  be  unacceptable  ;  at  which  Ibrahim 
started,  and  said,  "  Heaven  defend  me  from  keeping  wine 
in  my  house,  or  going  to  a  place  where  it  is  sold!  such  a 
man  as  I  am,  who  have  been  four  times  on  a  pilgrimage 
to  Mecca,  must  have  renounced  wine  forever." 

"Notwithstanding  this,"  replied  JSToureddin,  "  I  will  not 
be  deprived  of  my  wine ;  be  so  condescending  as  to  go 
to  the  door  of  a  wine-house,  and  send  in  a  porter  for  some, 
which  he  may  bring  here  ;  and  that  you  may  have  the 
less  scruple,  it  shall  not  be  bought  with  your  money."  He 
then  put  a  couple  of  pieces  of  gold  into  the  Scheik's  hand, 
who,  laughing  in  his  turn,  congratulated  his  guest  on  his 
invention;  —  "without  which,"  said  he,  "I  should  never 
have  found  out  a  way  of  providing  you  with  wine,  and 
preserving  my  conscience  inviolate." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  241 

While  Ibrahim  was  gone,  it  occurred  to  Noureddin  that 
all  this  aversion  to  wine  was  but  hypocrisy,  and  that  his 
host  would  drink  his  cup  as  heartily  as  he  could.  To  try 
this,  he  instructed  Selima  how  to  act;  and  when  the  wine 
came,  lie  filled  three  cups,  and  offered  one  to  Ibrahim.  The 
old  man  started  back  as  if  with  horror,  on  which  Nou- 
reddin  drank  the  cup,  and  the  fair  Persian  presented  the 
scheik  with  a  slice  of  apple,  which  he  received  with  great 
pleasure. 

As  they  conversed,  Noureddin  pretended  to  fall  asleep. 
Selima  seemed  to  think  he  was  so,  and  presenting  a  cup  of 
wine  to  the  old  man,  she  said,  "Drink  this  cup  to" my 
health,  and  keep  me  company,  while  that  drowsy  sot 
sleeps."  Ibrahim  for  a  little  time  resisted;  but  overcome 
with  her  beauty,  he  complied.  Soon  after,  he  drank  a 
Becond  cup  with  very  little  opposition.  He  received  a 
third  from  Selima  without  murmur;  and  the  fourth  he 
helped  himself  to.  Noureddin  seeing  this,  burst  out  a- 
laughing,  saying,  "Ha!  Ibrahim,  you  are  caught ;  is  this 
the  way  in  which  jtou  abstain  from  wine?"  Ibrahim, 
warmed  with  what  he  had  drunk,  and  loving  wine,  threw 
aside  his  reserve,  joined  in  the  laugh,  and  sat  down  very 
cordially  with  his  guests  to  finish  the  bottle. 

While  Noureddin  and  his  host  were  conversing  together 
Selima,  observing  the  candles  in  the  branches,  and  seeing 
the  room  looked  gloomy,  desired  Ibrahim  to  light  them. 
As  he  was  in  earnest  discourse  with  Noureddin,  he  said  to 
her,  jocularly,  "Lady,  you  are  much  the  youngest;  light 
a  few  of  them  yourself."  Selima  immediately  lit  up  every 
candle,  at  the  same  time  opening  the  shutters  of  the 
windows. 

When  the  pavilion  of  pictures  was  thus  illuminated,  it 
made  a  very  splendid  appearance".  As  the  caliph  was  re- 
tiring to  bed,  it  chanced  that  he  opened  his  casement,  and 
seeing  the  illumination,  he  inquired  of  Giafar  the  cause  of 
it,  in  a  manner  sufficiently  expressive  of  his  displeasure. 
The  vizier  had  a  particular  friendship  for  Scheik  Ibrahim. 
To  shield  him  from  the  anger  of  the  caliph,  Giafar  in- 
vented a  tale  that  the  scheik  had  applied  to  him  for  leave 
21  Q 


242  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  celebrate  a  religious  ceremony  in  the  pavilion,  in  com 
pany  with  the  ministers  of  bis  mosque.  The  vizier,  to 
secure  his  friend,  said  so  much  upon  the  subject  that  he 
excited  the  curiosity  of  the  caliph  ;  who,  instead  of  going 
to  rest,  ordered  the  disguises  to  be  brought,  in  which  he 
and  Giafar  used  to  go  about  the  city,  and  made  him  and 
Mesrour,  with  the  other  slaves  about  him,  go  with  him  to 
the  pavilion. 

Giafar  knew  there  was  not  a  word  of  truth  in  what  he 
nad  told  his  master.  He  would  willingly,  therefore,  have 
diverted  the  caliph  from  his  purpose ;  but  in  vain ;  the 
prince  would  go  ;  and  the  vizier,  trembling  for  the  conse- 
quences, was  obliged  to  attend  him. 

On  their  arrival,  they  found  the  door  of  the  hall  partly 
open ;  and  the  caliph  approaching,  was  surprised  to  see  a 
young  man  and  woman  of  such  extraordinary  beauty.  He 
was  also  much  displeased  to  see  Ibrahim,  whom  he  had 
always  considered  as  a  grave,  steady  man,  now  drinking 
wine,  and  carousing  to  excess.  "Are  these,"  said  he  to 
the  vizier,  "  the  ministers  of  the  mosque  you  told  me  of? " 

At  this  instant,  Selima  took  up  a  lute,  and  began  to 
tune  it.  The  caliph  was  exceedingly  fond  of  this  instru- 
ment ;  he  again  drew  near  the  door,  when  the  fair  Persian 
played  on  it  so  admirably  as  quite  delighted  him.  Re- 
turning to  ^.he  vizier,  he  said,  "I  will  forgive  you  all,  if 
you  will  contrive  to  introduce  me  to  this  company,  with- 
out discovering  who  I  am." 

There  was  in  the  gardens  a  fine  canal  which  abounded 
with  the  choicest  fish.  The  bold  and  needy  fishermen  of 
the  town  would  often  scale  the  walls,  though  strictly  pro- 
hibited, to  obtain  some  of  them.  It  occurred  to  the  vizier 
that  possibly  he  might  meet  with  one  of  these  pilferers. 
Having  hinted  this  to  the  caliph,  he  set  out  with  Mesrour, 
and  fortunately  found  one  stripped  to  his  shirt,  and  busily 
employed  in  disengaging  some  fish  from  the  net  which  he 
had  just  drawn  on  shore.  At  the  sight  of  the  caliph's 
attendants,  away  ran  the  fisherman,  leaving  the  fish,  nets, 
and  clothes  behind  him.  Giafar  seized  the  latter,  and 
taking  wi  h  him  a  few  of  the  finest  fish,  he  persutded  tho 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  243 

caliph  to  assume  the  appearance  of  a  fisherman,  and  pre- 
sent  himself  as  such  to  Ibrahim  and  his  companions. 

The  caliph  agreed  to  the  proposal ;  but  lest  he  should  be 
exposed  to  any  insult  in  his  own  gardens,  he  sent  away 
an  attendant  for  his  imperial  robes.  He  then  dressed 
himself  as  a  fisherman,  and  entering  the  room  where  Ibra- 
him and  his  guests  were,  he  offered  to  sell  them  his  fish. 
The  scheik  was  now  drunk.  He  would  have  driven  away 
the  supposed  fisherman  ;  but  Selima  interposed,  and  ex- 
pressed a  desire  to  have  the  fish,  if  they  could  be  dressed 
immediately.  "My  princess,"  replied  the  old  man,  "I 
have  a  kitchen  below,  where  this  fellow  may  dress  them 
if  he  pleases."  "  I  desire  no  better,"  replied  the  caliph, 
"  and  will  ask  nothing  for  them  if  you  will  let  me  join 
your  company." 

This  being  agreed  to,  the  caliph,  who  took  upon  himself 
the  name  of  Kerim,  withdrew,  and  ordered  the  slaves**vho 
attended  him  to  dress  the  fish;  which  being  done,  he 
served  them  up  himself,  and  sat  down  with  the  company. 
They  all  commended  the  fish ;  and  Noureddin  being  no 
less  drunk  than  his  host,  took  out  his  purse  of  gold,  and 
threw  it  at  the  supposed  fisherman  as  a  reward  ;  nor  was 
this  all,  for  when  Selima  had  sung  another  song,  with 
which  Kerim  expressed  himself  highly  delighted,  Noured- 
din  told  him  he  was  an  honest  fellow,  and  as  he  liked  the 
slave,  she  was  at  his  service;  he  would  make  him  a  present 
of  her.  Having  said  this,  he  arose  and  was  about  to  take 
up  his  robe  and  depart. 

Selima  in  vain  entreated  her  unworthy  master  to  recall 
his  rash  gift.  He  reproached  her  as  the  cause  of  all  his 
misfortunes.  The  caliph  was  astonished  at  what  had 
passed ;  and  while  the  fair  Persian  retired  to  a  sofa  to 
vent  her  grief,  he  requested  Noureddin  to  relate  his  story.  # 

The  young  man  complied ;  and  the  caliph  found  from 
his  narrative,  that  though  his  new  acquaintance  had  been 
led  aside  by  youthful  indiscretion,  which  deserved  correc- 
tion, yet  King  Zinchi,  and  his  vizier  Saouy  had  been 
guilty  of  oppression  and  injustice.  He  considered  that 
the  folly  of  Nourjddin  had  brought  a  severe  distress  upoD 


244  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

him;  while  the  king  of  Balsora,  influenced  by  his  minis- 
ter, 1  ad  'abused  the  authority  delegated  from  him  with 
impunity. 

He  determined,  therefore,  to  punish  their  injustice  by 
the  very  man  who  had  been  the  victim  of  it.  He  wrote 
an  order  to  Zinchi  to  abdicate  his  throne,  and  place  Nou- 
reddin  on  it.  He  also  added  a  set  form  of  words  in  the 
margin  of  the  letter,  which  denoted  his  insisting  on  punc- 
tual and  immediate  obedience.  This  he  put  into  Noured- 
din's  hands,  and  advised  him  to  return  with  it  to  Balsora. 
"  I  am  not  unknown  to  Zinchi,"  said  he;  "we  were  school- 
fellows :  though  this  letter  is  given  you  by  a  person  so 
obscure,  yet,  depend  upon  it,  when  the  king  receives  it, 
he  will  do  you  justice." 

An  air  of  authority,  which  broke  forth  while  the  caliph 
said  this,  had  great  influence  with  Noureddin ;  and  as  his 
situation  was  desperate,  he  ventured  on  a  desperate  un- 
dertaking; he  rose  up,  and  without  taking  leave  of  Se- 
lima,  who  was  overwhelmed  with  grief,  he  went  on  board 
a  vessel,  and  sailed  for  Balsora. 

A  ridiculous  scene  now  took  place  between  the  drunker 
Ibrahim  and  the  supposed  fisherman.  "You  have  beer 
well  paid  for  your  paltry  fish  by  that  prodigal,"  said  Ibra- 
him, "  but  I  shall  not  suffer  you  to  keep  all  he  has  given 
you.  I  am  content  to  divide  the  money  with  you;  but 
the  beautiful  slave  I  will  keep  entirely  to  myself."  The 
caliph  refused  him  in  a  laughing  answer,  which  so  enraged 
Ibrahim,  that  he  withdrew  in  haste  to  fetch  a  cane  to 
chastise  the  insolent  Kerim. 

As  soon  as  Ibrahim  had  left  the  hall,  the  caliph  gave  a 
signal  for  his  attendants  to  enter.  They  instantly  took 
away  the  fisherman's  garb,  and  dressed  him  in  the  royal 
♦robes;  and  when  Ibrahim  returned,  staggering  and  mut- 
tering curses  and  threatenings  against  the  unreasonable 
fisherman,  he  was  amazed  to  find  in  his  room  the  caliph, 
attended  by  his  principal  officers. 

The  scheik  stood  aghast  at  a  sight  so  unwelcome  and 
so  unexpected.  Recollecting  himself,  he  in  the  most  hum- 
ble  mtnner  besought  his  master's  pardon.     T'ae  caliph, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  245 

after  giving  him  a  good-humored  reprimand,  forgave  him. 
and  turi.ing  to  Selima,  who  had  seen  these  transactions  in 
silent  astonishment,  he  exhorted  her  to  take  comfort,  as 
Noureddin  would  soon  be  in  a  situation  to  receive  her 
again  in  splendor.  In  the  meantime-  he  promised  to  place 
her  under  the  protection  of  his  favorite  lady,  Zobeide. 

Noureddin  had  time  enough  during  his  voyage  to  reflect 
on  the  danger  he  exposed  himself  to  by  returning  to  Bal~ 
sora;  but  his  situation  was  so  deplorable  that  he  became 
almost  indifferent  to  the  consequence.  On  his  landing, 
without  consulting  any  friend,  he  went  directly  to  the 
palace,  and  presented  the  letter  to  Zinchi,  at  the  time  of 
public  audience.  The  king's  color  changed  on  reading  it; 
he  was  about  to  obey  the  caliph's  order,  when  he  thought 
of  showing  it  to  his  vizier. 

Saouy  read  it  in  a  transport  of  envy,  rage,  and  despair; 
he  took  care,  however,  to  conceal  these  passions.  An 
artful  expedient  occurred  to  him  to  postpone  at  least 
Noureddin's  elevation.  He  pretended  to  turn  round  for 
better  light,  when  he  tore  off  the  set  form  in  the  margin, 
which  he  swallowed ;  then  turning  to  the  king,  who  was 
in  great  confusion,  he  talked  with  him  in  a  whisper  to 
the  following  effect :  that  the  set  form  being  omitted,  it 
was  plain  that  the  caliph  had  only  given  Noureddin  that 
letter  to  get  rid  of  him  ;  that  the  patent  had  not  been 
sent,  which  was  itself  sufficient  reason  to  suspend*obedi- 
ence  to  so  strange  an  order.  He  concluded  with  request- 
ing Zinchi  to  commit  Noureddin  to  his  custody,  hinting 
pretty  plainly  that  he  should  not  long  be  in  the  king's 
way.  Zinchi  consented,  and  Noureddin  was  seized,  loaded 
with  chains,  and  conveyed  to  the  house  of  his  inveterate 
enemy,  where  he  was  treated  with  the  utmost  rigor. 

Noureddin  remained  six  days  in  this  situation,  lament- 
ing chiefly  his  own  indiscretion,  in  thus  putting  himself  in 
the  hands  of  his  enemies.  Saouy  did  not  pass  this  timo 
without  uneasiness  ;  he  dreaded  the  consequences  of  his 
bold  measure,  in  tearing  off  the  most  material  part  of  the 
caliph's  letter.  Though  he  was  impatient  to  deprive  Nou- 
reddin of  life,  he  neither  durst  do  so  privately,  as  he  at 
21* 


246  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

first  intended,  nor  was  his  malice  satisfied  with  lefs  than 
the  shame  of  a  public  execution,  which  he  could  uot  in- 
flict on  his  own  authority.  Thus  situated,  he  had  recourse 
again  to  artifice;  and  taking  advantage  of  Zinchi  being 
intoxicated,  he  made  such  a  representation  of  Noureddin, 
tbat  he  obtained  the  royal  order  to  put  him  to  death  the 
next  day,  in  the  midst  of  the  city. 

At  the  time  appointed,  Saouy  went  in  person  to  the 
prison,  accompanied  by  his  slaves,  with  the  executioner 
and  his  attendants,  and  ordered  the  prisoner  to  be  con- 
ducted to  the  scaffold,  with  every  possible  circumstance 
of  ignominy.  Koureddin,  who  heard  tbese  barbarous 
orders,  exclaimed,  "  Thou  triumphest  now,  O  mine  ene- 
my !  but  remember  what  is  written  in  one  of  our  books  : 
'  You  judge  unjustly,  forgetting  that  in  a  little  time  you 
shall  be  judged  yourself.'"  "Fool/'  replied  Saouy,  "not 
to  remember  what  another  of  our  books  sayeth,  'What 
signifies  dying  the  day  after  the  death  of  one's  enemy?'" 

.Noureddin  was  led  through  all  the  principal  streets  of 
the  city,  to  a  scaffold  erected  opposite  the  gate  of  the 
palace.  The  fatal  blow  was  about  to  be  struck,  when  a 
most  tormenting  thirst  oppressed  the  prisoner,  who  ear- 
nestly desired  some  water,  which  the  people  about  under- 
took to  provide.  This  causing  a  little  delay,  the  vizier 
impatiently  called  out  to  the  executioner  to  perform  his 
office.  A  tumult  immediately  ensued  among  the  people, 
who  still  retained  an  affection  for  Noureddin,  and  ever 
hated  Saouy.  The  king  himself  was  offended  at  the  cru- 
elty of  his  minister,  and  gave  a  signal  to  suspend  the 
execution.  At  this  instant,  a  troop  of  horse  came  gallop- 
»ng  full  speed  toward  the  palace,  at  the  head  of*  whom 
appeared  Giafar. 

The  instant  Saouy  saw  the  grand  vizier,  he  again  pressed 
the  execution  of  the  prisoner,  which  Zinchi  with  high 
indignation  again  forbade.  When  the  caliph's  minister 
reached  the  palace,  he  ordered  Noureddin  to  be  released, 
seized  Saouy,  and  the  same  hour  set  out  again  for  Bagdad, 
taking  Zinchi  and  Noureddin  with  him,  and  leading  Saouy 
thither  prisoner,  bound  with  the  same  chains  he  h.'.d  lately 
imposed  on  the  unfortunate  Noureddin. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  241 

The  sudden  and  timely  appearance  of  Giafar  was  caused 
by  the  caliph  accidentally  hearing  Seliraa  accompanying 
her  lute,  in  the  apartments  of  Zobeide;  this  brought  to 
his  recollection  that  he  had  not  sent  to  Balsora  the  patent 
confirming  Noureddin  king  in  the  room  of  Zinchi.  Giafar 
was  immediately  dispatched  with  it  in  all  haste,  and  ar- 
rived just  iu  time  to  prevent  the  effect  of  Saouy's  malice. 

On  his  return  to  Bagdad,  Giafar  introduced  them  to  the 
caliph,  who,  having  examined  into  everything,  told  Nou- 
reddin  he  was  at  liberty  to  revenge  his  sufferings,  by  de- 
priving his  enemy  of  his  head.  The  young  man,  generous 
in  this  instance,  was  satisfied  with  having  Saouy  in  his 
power;  he  even  entreated  the  caliph  to  pardon  him.  Ha- 
roun  Alraschid  highly  commended  his  manly  and  liberal 
behavior,  but  added,  "  Though  it  is  right  in  you  to  forgive 
a  private  injury,  it  would  ill  become  me  to  pardon  such  an 
abuse  of  authority.  Mercy  to  such  an  offender  would  be 
cruelty  to  my  people."  Saying  this,  he  ordered  Saouy  to 
be  immediately  put  to  death. 

The  caliph  would  have  dispatched  Noureddin  to  take 
possession  of  the  throne  of  Balsora ;  but  he  declared  that 
the  many  calamities  he  had  met  with  in  that  city,  had 
made  it  hateful  to  him:  the  caliph,  therefore,  after  a 
severe  reprimand,  permitted  Zinchi  to  reassume  his  gov- 
ernment; and  restoring  Selima  to  Noureddin,  he  gave  him 
a  handsome  appointment  in  his  palace. 

THE    STORY    OF    BEDER,    PRINCE    OF    PERSIA,    AND    GIAUHARA, 
PRINCESS    OF    SAMANDAL. 

Some  years  ago,  Persia  was  governed  by  an  accomplished 
prince  of  the  name  of  Mirza.  His  great  reputation  kept 
his  neighbors  in  awe ;  his  subjects  were  happy  under  his 
government;  he  kept  up  the  dignity  of  a  sovereign  of 
Persia  with  great  splendor;  his  harem  was  filled  with 
beauties  from  all  parts  of  the  world;  but  though  he  was 
exceedingly  amorous,  he  had  never  attached  himself  to 
any  particular  object.  He  felt  the  necessity  of  something 
more  than  mer3  personal  beauty  to  command  his  heart. 

One  day  «.  merchant,  who  dealt  in  beautiful  slaves,  ar- 


248  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

rived  at  Mirza's  court,  and  acquainted  him  that  he  had 
met  with  a  slave  more  lovely  than  any  he  had  ever  seen. 
The  king  desired  to  see  her,  and  was  so  charmed  with 
her,  that  he  paid  the  merchant  the  full  price  he  demanded, 
and  gave  him  a  noble  present  besides. 

The  king  ordered  the  fair  slave  to  be  lodged  in  the  most 
elegant  apartments  of  the  harem,  and  directed  the  attend- 
ants to  behave  to  her  with  the  most  profound  respect. 
When  she  had  reposed  a  few  days,  and  had  recovered  from 
the  fatigue  of  her  journey,  her  charms  were  so  much  im- 
proved, that  Mirza  was  quite  enamored  with  her. 

The  fair  slave  endured  rather  than  received  the  caresses 
of  her  royal  master.  She  submitted  herself  to  his  disposal 
in  silence.  The  most  affectionate  endearments  produced 
no  alteration  in  her  behavior.  She  continued  to  cast  her 
eyes  on  the  ground ;  nor  could  any  entreaties  prevail  with 
her  to  utter  a  single  word.  Mirza,  notwithstanding,  be- 
came so  fond  of  her,  that  he  dismissed  all  his  other  women, 
and  attached  himself  entirely  to  her. 

A  year  passed,  during  which  the  fair  slave  observed  the 
same  obstinate  silence;  when  one  day,  as  the  king  was 
pouring  forth  vows  of  the  most  unalterable  affection,  he 
perceived  that  she  listened  to  him  in  a  different  manner 
from  what  she  had  been  used  to  do.  She  held  up  her  head, 
she  smiled,  and  cast  her  eyes  on  the  king  with  looks  of 
love.  Mirza  perceived  the  alteration  with  as  much  sur- 
prise as  delight;  he  doubted  not  but  she  was  going  to 
speak :  he  urged  her,  and  she  fulfilled  his  expectations  to 
this  purpose; 

"  Since  I  have  resolved  to  break  silence,  I  have  much 
to  say  to  your  majesty ;  but  let  me,  in  the  first  place,  thank 
you  for  all  the  favors  and  honors  you  have  conferred  upon 
me.  Let  me  inform  you  also  that  I  am  with  child.  Tim 
induced  me  to  break  a  silence  I  had  intended  should  have 
been  perpetual,  and  to  love  and  respect  you  as  I  ought." 

Mirza  was  transported  to  hear  she  was  likely  to  make 
him  a  father,  a  blessing  he  had  despaired  of,  as  none  of 
his  mistresses  had  brought  him  an  heir.  In  the  extrava- 
gance of  his  joy,  he  caused  the  news  to  be  instantly  pro- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  249 

claimed  to  his  capital;  he  ordered  the  poor  to  be  relieved, 
the  prisoners  set  at  liberty,  and  every  possible  demonstra- 
tion of  joy  to  take  place  throughout  hfs  dominions.  Having 
given  these  directions,  he  turned  to  the  fair  slave,  and 
tenderly  inquired  into  the  cause  of  her  long  silence. 

"  To  account  for  my  conduct,"  said  she,  "  let  me  inform 
you,  sir,  that  though  I  was  reduced  so  low  as  to  be  sold 
to  you  for  a  slave,  I  am  of  royal  blood.  I  have  never 
ceased  to  remember  my  origin,  and  took  care  to  do  noth- 
ing which  should  disgrace  that  birth  by  giving  anything 
like  a  consent  to  what  befell  me  in  the  state  to  which  ray 
misfortunes  had  reduced  me.  Your  tender  attention  and 
respect  shook  this  resolution,  and  my  being  with  child  by 
you  has  entirely  overturned  it, 

"  My  name  is  Gulnare,  of  the  sea.  My  father  was  one 
of  the  most  potent  princes  of  the  ocean.  At  his  death  he 
left  his  kingdom  in  profound  peace  to  my  brother  Saleh; 
and  I  lived  happily  in  his  court,  under  the  protection  of 
my  royal  mother,  who  was  daughter  of  another  puissant 
monarch  of  the  sea. 

"An  ambitious  neighbor,  taking  advantage  of  my 
brother's  youth  and  of  our  too  great  security,  invaded  his 
territory  with  a  mighty  army,  and  advanced  so  rapidly  to 
his  capital  that  we  could  scarce  save  ourselves  from  falling 
into  his  hands.  We  escaped  to  an  inaccessible  fortress 
with  a  iew  trusty  adherents,  and  continued  there  a  long 
time,  while  my  brother  laid  plans  to  di'ive  out  the  usurper. 

"  Saleh  was  very  fond  of  me ;  and  as  the  affair  he  was 
about  to  undertake  was  exceedingly  hazardous,  he  wished 
to  see  me  married  before  he  embarked  in  it.  'In  the 
present  miserable  condition  of  our  affairs,'  said  he,  'I  see 
no  probability  of  matching  you  to  any  of  the  princes  of 
the  sea;  I  would  therefore  wish  you  to  marry  one  of  the 
princes  of  the  earth.  Your  beauty  surpasses  anything 
they  ever  saw,  and  a  very  small  part  of  the  little  wealth 
we  have  left  would  be  an  inconceivable  treasure  to  tho 
greatest  of  them.' 

"  Instead  of  weighing  this  advice  of  my  brother  as  it 
deserved,  I  reproached    him  with  meanness  of  spirit,  in 


250  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

making  me  so  degrading  a  proposal.  My  mother  adopt, 
ing  his  idea,  I  gave  way  to  my  wounded  pride,  and  with 
an  imprudence  and*  want  of  dut}r  which  youth  could 
scarcely  excuse,  I  threw  myself  out  of  the  protection  of 
these  my  natural  and  best  friends.  As  soon  as  they  had 
left  me,  I  gave  a  spring  from  the  bottom  of  the  sea  to  the 
island  of  the  moon.  It  would  be  tedious  if  I  was  to  relate 
to  your  majesty  the  many  distressing  consequences  of  this 
rash  step.  One  disaster  followed  another,  the  usual  and 
just  punishment  of  indiscretion  and  disobedience,  till  I 
became  at  length  a  slave,  and  fell  into  your  hands." 

When  Gulnare  had  finished  her  narration,  the  king  of 
Persia  embraced  her  with  great  tenderness.  "  Your  story, 
my  charming  princess,"  said  he,  "has  greatly  excited  my 
curiosity,  which  I  would  beg  of  you  to  gratify,  if  I  was 
not  resolved  first  to  put  you  in  a  situation  more  worthy 
of  you."  Mirza  sent  immediately  for  the  proper  officers, 
and  publicly  espoused  the  beautiful  Gulnare,  causing  her 
to  be  proclaimed  queen  of  Persia,  in  the  most  solemn 
manner  all  over  the  kingdom. 

These  ceremonies  over,  the  king  required  of  his  lovely 
bride  a  more  particular  account  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
sea.  "I  have  often  heard,"  said  he,  "that  the  sea  was 
peopled,  but  I  ever  considered  it  as  a  fable,  not  believing 
it  was  possible  for  human  beings  to  walk  up  and  down, 
and  live  entirely  in  the  water." 

uSir,"  replied  the  queen,  "we  can  walk  at  the  bottom 
of  the  sea  with  as  much  ease  as  you  do  on  land,  and  breathe 
in  the  water  as  you  do  in  the  air,  yet  it  never  wets  our 
clothes.  Our  faculties  in  general  are  more  perfect  than 
yours.  Our  vulgar  language  is  the  same  that  was  en- 
gi-aven  upon  the  seal  of  Solomon, ithe  Son  of  David. 

"  The  water  does  not  obstruct  the  opening  and  shutting 
of  our  eyes.  Our  sight  is  sharp  and  piercing,  and  can 
discern  any  object  in  the  deepest  sea  as  distinctly  as  upon 
land.  We  have  the  same  succession  of  times  and  seasons 
as  you  have,  and  enjoy  the  light  of  the  same  planets  in  as 
groat  a  perfection.  As  the  sea  is  much  larger  than  the 
*sarth,  so  we  have  many  more  kingdoms,  all  of  which  have 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  251 

great  cities,  well  peopled  ;  and  there  are  the  same  varieties 
of  manners  and  customs  among  us,  as  there  are  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth. 

"The  palaces  of  our  kings  and  great  men  are  magnifi- 
cent beyond  any  idea  you  can  form.  We  have  gold,  as 
you  have  ;  but  the  diamonds  and  pearls  which  are  in  most 
estimation  with  you,  would  scarcely  be  worn  by  the  low- 
est order  of  our  people.  We  have  an  incredible  agility  in 
transporting  ourselves  where  we  please,  in  an  instant;  so 
that  we  have  no  occasion  for  carriages  or  horses,  yet  we 
use  both  for  splendor  on  public  occasions. 

''Among  other  things  in  which  we  differ  greatly  from 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  is,  the  method  of  delivery  and 
managing  the  women  of  the  sea  in  their  lying-in.  On  this 
account  it  will  be  necessaiy  to  send  for  my  mother  and 
my  cousins  to  assist  at  my  labor  I  wish  also  to  be  rec- 
onciled to  my  brother.  I  beseech  your  majesty  will  give 
me  leave  to  send  for  them ;  they  will  be  glad  to  see  me, 
now  I  am  the  consort  of  so  great  a  prince,  and  proud  to 
pay  their  respects  to  your  majesty." 

The  king  started  at  this  proposal.  "I  should  rejoice," 
replied  he,  "to  receive  your  relations;  but  how  can  they 
know  where  you  are,  unless  you  leave  me  to  go  in  search 
of  them?  That  I  cannot  bear  to  think  of."  —  "Sir,"  re- 
plied Gulnare,  with  a  smile,  "  if  I  have  your  permission  to 
send  for  them,  I  need  not  stir  from  this  room.  They  will 
be  here  in  a  very  short  time." 

Mirza  readily  consented  ;  the  queen  requested  him  to 
retire  to  an  adjoining  closet,  from  whence  he  could  see 
her  friends  without  being  seen  by  them,  till  she  chose  to 
introduce  him.  The  royal  palace  stood  close  to  the  sea; 
the  queen  opened  the  windows  nearest  to  it,  and,  having 
called  for  a  pan  of  fire,  she  threw  in  some  powder,  and 
pronounced  certain  words  over  it. 

Presently  the  sea  appeared  disturbed,  and  in  a  short 
time  opened,  when  a  tall,  handsome  young  man,  with 
whiskers  of  a  sea-green  color,  appeared  on  the  surface  ;  a 
little  behind  him  was  one  lady,  advanced  in  years,  attend- 
ed by  five  beautiful  young  ones.    The  queen  approaching 


252  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

the  windows  of  the  apartment,  was  soon  perceived  by  her 
relations,  who  came  forward,  not  walking,  but  carried,  as 
it  were,  on  the  surface  of  the  waves.  When  they  came 
near  the  palace,  they  nimbly  leaped  into  it.  The  whole 
company  embraced  Gulnare,  and  tenderly  reproached  her 
with  having  left  them  so  abruptly,  and  kept  herself  con- 
cealed from  them  so  long.  King  Saleh  also  told  her  that 
he  had  driven  out  the  usurper,  and  seized  his  kingdom,  as 
well  as  recovered  his  own. 

Gulnare  received  them  with  great  respect,  and,  in  a  few 
words,  told  them  all  that  had  befallen  her.  "I  could  not," 
added  she,  "  for  very  shame  apply  to  you  while  I  was  be- 
set with  difficulties,  which  arose  entirely  from  my  own 
imprudence.  But  I  am  now  become  the  wife  of  the 
greatest  monarch  of  the  earth,  who,  in  every  instance, 
treats  me  with  the  utmost  regard  and  attention." 

A  sumptuous  collation  was  brought  in,  which  the  queen 
requested  her  relations  to  partake  of.  As  they  were  pre- 
paring to  do  so,  the  same  thought  struck  them  all,  that 
they  had  entered  the  palace  of  a  mighty  prince,  and  were 
about  to  sit  down  to  his  table  without  having  been  intro- 
duced to  him.  A  sense  of  this  incivility  caused  them  to 
blush ;  their  eyes  sparkled,  and  they^  breathed  flames  of 
fire  at  their  mouth  and  nostrils. 

Gulnare  doubted  not  but  this  sight  would  alarm  her 
husband;  and  as  she  found  her  relations  were  desirous  of 
seeing  him,  she  withdrew  to  the  closet  where  he  was,  and 
offered  to  introduce  them  to  him.  Mirza  expressed  him- 
self much  satisfied  at  their  arrival,  but  frankly  owned  he 
durst  not  trust  himself  near  people  who  breathed  forth 
fire  so  terribly.  Gulnare,  laughing,  told  him  that  those 
flames  would  cease  when  they  saw  him  ;  and  were  only  a 
token  of  their  unwillingness  to  sit  down  to  table  without 
him. 

When  the  queen  had  presented  her  relations  to  the 
king  of  Persia,  and  mutual  compliments  had  passed,  his 
apprehensions  were  done  away,  and  he  soon  became  much 
attached  to  his  illustrious  guests.  He  treated  them  many 
days  together  with   the   greatest   magnificence.     In   the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT.!.  253 

midst  of  these  hours  of  festivity,  their  joy  was  increased 
by  the  queen  being  happily  delivered  of  a  prince  so  beau- 
tiful, that  th^y  agreed,  with  one  voice,  to  call  him  Beder, 
which,  in  the  Arabian  language,  signifies  the  full  moon. 

One  day,  soon  after  the  birth  of  the  prince,  when  Mirza 
and  Saleh  were  visiting  the  queen,  the  latter  took  Beder 
from  his  nurse-  and,  after  caressing  him  and  dancing  him 
about  the  room,  on  a  sudden  he  leaped  out  of  the  window 
into  the  sea,  with  the  child  in  his  arms,  and  disappeared. 

The  king  of  Persia  was  exceedingly  alarmed  when  he 
saw  his  beloved  son,  the  child  of  his  wishes,  thus  snatched 
from  him.  He  concluded  the  infant  must  be  drowned,  and 
was  giving  way  to  despair,  when  Saleh  returned  with 
Beder  in  his  arms,  whom  he  restored  unhurt  to  his  nurse. 
He  then  explained  to  Mirza  the  reason  of  his  conduct. 
"Children,"  said  he,  "born  of  parents  who  are  not  both 
'  inhabitants  of  the  sea,  have  only  a  few  moments  occurring 
once  during  their  early  infancy,  in  which  the  privilege  of 
descending  into  the  regions  of  the  water  can  be  imparted 
to  them.  While  I  was  playing  with  my  nephew,  I  per- 
ceived those  precious  moments  (soon  to  pass  away)  were 
arrived  ;  without  losing  them  to  explain  myself  to  you,  I 
pronounced  the  mysterious  words  which  were  engraven 
on  the  seal  of  the  great  Solomon,  the  son  of  David,  and, 
taking  the  prince  with  me  into  the  sea,  I  completed  the 
necessary  rites.  Beder  will  now  be  able,  when  he  pleases, 
to  plunge  into  the  sea,  and  traverse  the  vast  empires  it 
contains  at  its  bottom. 

"  I  have  also,"  continued  he,  "  brought  your  majesty  a 
*mall  present,  which  I  request  you  to  accept."  He  then 
made  a  signal,  when  two  men  rose  out  of  the  sea,  bearing 
an  immense  coffer,  which  contained  three  hundred  dia- 
monds as  large  as  pigeon's-eggs,  as  many  rubies,  with 
emeralds,  and  pearls  of  the  greatest  value;  so  that  the 
king  of  Persia  was  absolutely  astonished  at  a  display  of 
riches  Which  exceeded  everything  he  had  any  notion  of. 

King  Saleh  and  the  ladies  of  the  sea  continued  with 
Mirza  and  Gulnare  as  long  as  in  prudence  they  could      At 
length  they  took  leave,  and  returned  to  their  own  terri- 
22 


254  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

tories.  An  affectionate  intercourse  continued  between 
them  during  their  lives,  and  they  paid  frequent  visits  to 
the  court  of  Persia. 

As  Beder  grew  up,  he  appeared  to  be  a  prince  of  great 
hopes.  His  temper  was  benevolent;  his  talents  brilliant ; 
and  they  were  eaHv  called  into  exercise.  While  he  was 
yet  a  youth,  disease  bore  heavily  on  Mirzaf  and  he  became 
desirous  to  withdraw  himself  from  the  fatigues  of  royalty. 
He  resigned,  therefore,  his  crown  to  his  son  ;  and  though 
he  survived  that  event  but  a  short  time,  yet  he  had  the 
satisfaction  to  see  the  prince  conduct  himself  with  great 
ability,  and  to  be  treated  by  him  with  the  most  perfect 
respect  and  duty. 

The  loss  of  his  father  was  well  supplied  to  the  young 
king  by  the  sagacious  counsels  of  Gulnare  and  King  Saleh. 
That  prince  was  so  attached  to  his  nephew,  that  he  passed 
with  him  all  the  time  he  could  spare  from  the  care  of  his 
own  dominions.  One  day  after  dinner,  Saleh,  in  conver- 
sation with  his  sister  Gulnare,  fell  insensibly  on  the  praises 
of  his  nephew.  Beder,  among  his  other  virtues,  had  great 
modesty;  and  not  being  willing  either  to  interrupt  his 
uncle,  or  to  sit  and  hear  his  own  applause,  he  rose  from 
the  table,  and  withdrew  to  a  sofa,  where  he  pretended  to 
fall  asleep. 

Saleh  continued  the  conversation,  and  told  the  queen 
that  there  was  a  princess  of  the  sea,  who  far  surpassed  all 
others  in  beauty,  whom  he  earnestly  wished  to  be  the  wife 
of  Beder,  but  that  very  considerable  difficulties  lay  in  the 
way  of  obtaining  her  for  him. 

Gulnare  arose  in  haste  to  look  at  Beder,  who,  being 
much  interested  in  the  conversation,  counterfeited  the 
most  profound  sleep.  The  queen,  thinking  him  really  so, 
returned  to  her  seat,  and  Saleh  proceeded  to  tell  her  that 
it  was  Giauhara,  daughter  of  the  king  of  Samandal,  whom 
he  thought  of  for  his  nephew.  "She  is,"  continued  he, 
"  the  most  beautiful  and  accomplished  princess  that  evtr 
was  seen  on  the  earth  or  in  the  waters.  But  as  her  father 
is  insupportably  proud,  looking  upon  all  others  as  his  in- 
feriors, it  is  not  likely  he  will  readily  agree  to  the  alliance." 


ARABIAN    NTGIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  255 

Beder  hoard  this  discourse  too  attentively  for  h  s  peace. 
He  became  enamored  of  the  princess  Giauhara,  of  whose 
beauty  he  conceived  the  highest  opinion  ;  and  fearing  that 
the  king  of  Samandal  should  reject  him,  it  entirely  de- 
stroyed his  rest ;  he  became  ahsent,  thoughtful,  and  sad. 
While  Saleh  contemplated  this  change  in  his  beloved 
nephew  with  great  anxiety,  an  accident  revealed  to  him 
the  cause  of  it.  Walking  one  evening  in  the  gardens  of 
the  palace,  he  overheard  Beder  express  his  passion  for  the 
unknown  Giauhara  in  terms  the  most  vehement. 

Saleh  was  excessively  grieved  at  this  event.  He  discov- 
ered himself  immediately  to  the  young  king  of  Persia,  and 
represented  to  him  in  the  strongest  terms  the  folly  of  de- 
voting his  heart  to  a  lady  whose  beauty  he  knew  only  by 
report.  But  Beder,  finding  his  secret  thus  unexpectedly 
discovered  by  his  uncle,  avowed  his  attachment,  and 
pleaded  the  necessity  of  his  obtaining  Giauhara  to  pre- 
serve his  life,  in  such  pathetic  terms  as  entirely  subdued 
Saleh.  Beder,  perceiving  the  impression  he  had  made, 
pressed  his  uncle  to  take  him  immediately  to  his  kingdom 
(without  asking  Gulnare's  consent,  of  which  they  had  no 
hope),  and  set  on  foot  a  treaty  with  the  king  of  Samandal. 
Saleh  agreed,  and  the  sea  passing  at  the  hottom  of  the 
gardens,  they  both  plunged  into  it,  and  arrived,  in  a  very 
short  time,  at  the  palace  of  the  sea-king. 

Saleh  prepared  a  most  sumptuous  present,  and  set  off  as 
soon  as  possible,  with  a  great  retinue,  for  the  court  of 
Samandal.  On  his  arrival,  the  king  treated  him  with 
much  respect,  and  appointed  a  public  audience  to  receive 
him  in  the  presence  of  the  whole  court  the  next  day. 
Accordingly  King  Saleh  was  introduced  in  great  state, 
and  placed  on  the  king  of  Samandal's  left  hand  ;  where, 
knowing  the  character  of  the  prince  he  was  addressing, 
he  paid  his  compliments  to  his  royal  host  in  the  most  sub- 
missive and  respectful  manner;  and  concluded  by  directing 
his  attendants  to  lay  the  present  they  bore  at  the  king  of 
Samandal's  feet. 

If  the  vanity  of  that  prince  was  delighted  by  the  abject 
behavior  of  his  brother  king,  his  avarice  was  no  less  grat- 


256  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ified  by  his  present,  which  was  of  immense  value.  He 
turned,  therefore,  toward  his  guest,  and  embracing  him, 
requested  to  know  in  what  manner  he  could  serve  him. 

King  Saleh,  pleased  with  his  gracious  reception,  de- 
clared that  the  purport  of  his  visit  was  to  solicit  an 
alliance  by  marriage  between  the  two  royal  families.  He 
had  scarce  proceeded  thus  far,  when  the  king  of  Samanclal 
interrupted  him  by  a  loud  laugh;  after  which  he  asked 
him,  with  much  contempt,  how  long  he  had  entertained 
such  a  chimera,  or  how  he  could  conceive  the  absurd 
thought  of  aspiring  to  so  great  and  accomplished  a  princess. 

King  Saleh  had  submitted  to  humor  the  disposition  of 
the  king  of  Samandal,  because  he  feared  that  haughty 
prince  would  be  with  difficulty  prevailed  on  to  give  his 
daughter  to  Beder ;  who,  being  only  a  king  of  the  earth, 
was  greatly  her  inferior;  but  when  he  found  himself 
treated  in  so  contemptuous  a  manner,  he  was  highly  of- 
fended, and  replied  with  great  spirit,  "  You  are  mistaken, 
sir,  if  you  suppose  I  meant  to  ask  your  daughter  for  my- 
self; nor  should  I  have  considered  such  a  request  as  at  all 
aspiring,  being  in  every  respect  your  equal.  It  is  for  my 
nephew,  the  king  of  Persia,  that  I  was  about  to  solicit, 
a  prince  whose  merit  renders  him  a  fit  husband  for  the 
lovely  Giauhara,  and  who,  though  not  a  prince  of  the  sea, 
is  the  most  potent  of  the  kings  of  the  earth." 

The  rage  of  the  king  of  Samandal  at  this  discourse, 
deprived  him,  for  some  time,  of  all  utterance.  At  length 
he  broke  out  in  outrageous  and  injurious  expressions,  un- 
worthy of  a  king;  not  content  with  this,  he  forgot  what 
was  due  to  the  dignity  of  Saleh,  and  to  the  rights  of  hos- 
pitality. He  called  out  to  his  guards  to  seize  his  guest, 
and  cut  off  his  head. 

The  audience-chamber  became  a  scene  of  the  greatest 
confusion.  Saleh  presently  escaped  out  of  the  palace,  at 
the  gate  of  which  he  found  a  thousand  men  of  his  rela- 
tions and  friends,  well  armed.  The  queen,  his  mother, 
considering  how  few  attendants  he  had,  and  the  reception 
he  would  probably  meet  with  from  the  king  of  Samandal, 
had  sent  this  little  troop  after  him  for  his  protection. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  257 

Saleh  put  himself  at  the  head  of  his  friends,  and,  with 
great  preaence  of  mind,  secured  the  avenues  of  the  palace; 
and  entering  again  the  audience-chamber,  he  seized  the 
person  of  the  king  of  Samandal.  His  next  care  was  to 
have  secured  the  princess;  but  on  the  first  alarm,  she, 
together  with  her  attendants,  had  sprung  to  the  surface  of 
the  sea,  and  escaped  to  a  desert  island. 

Meantime,  some  of  Saleh 's  attendants,  who  fled  at  the 
first  onset,  arrived  at  that  king's  capital,  and  spread  a 
general  consternation,  hy  relating  the  danger  they  left 
him  in.  All  the  royal  family  were  in  the  deepest  afllic- 
tion ;  but  Beder,  who  considered  himself  as  the  cause  of 
his  uncle's  misfortune,  was  overwhelmed  with  sorrow  and 
confusion.  He  dreaded  the  reproaches  of  his  grandmother 
and  of  the  other  princesses ;  he  hastily,  therefore,  darted 
from  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  and  not  knowing  how  to  find 
the  way  to  Persia,  he  arrived  by  chance  at  the  same  island 
where  the  princess  G-iauhara  had  taken  refuge. 

The  prince,  much  disturbed  in  mind,  seated  himself 
under  a  grove  of  trees.  While  he  was  endeavoring  to 
compose  himself,  he  overheard  the  sound  of  voices;  and 
drawing  near  the  place  they  proceeded  from,  he  saw  a 
lady  of  the  most  exquisite  beauty  conversing  with  some 
attendants.  Beder  was  quite  charmed  with  her.  He 
listened  to  their  conversation,  and,  to  his  astonishment, 
he  soon  found  that  the  lady  was  the  princess  to  whose 
beauty  he  had  devoted  his  heart,  from  the  account  he  had 
heard  of  it.  He  learnt  also  the  success  of  his  uncle  Saleh, 
and  the  captivity  of  the  king  of  Samandal — whose  mis- 
fortune the  charming  princess  dutifully  deplored,  though 
she  expressed  herself  unacquainted  with  the  cause  of  it. 

Beder  was  so  rejoiced  at  meeting  with  his  beloved 
Giaubara,  that  he  rushed  forward  and  threw  himself  at 
her  feet ;  and  as  soon  as  she  had  recovered  her  surprise, 
he  related  how  he  had  become  enamored  with  her,  who  he 
was,  and  concluded  by  offering  to  attend  her  to  her 
father's  court,  where  he  had  no  doubt  of  being  able  to 
re-establish  friendship  between  the  two  sea-kings. 

The  princess  was  pleased  with  the  person  and  address 
22*  r 


258  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  Beder;  and  when  she  heard  him  relate  how  i&uo.  he 
had  become  attached  to  her  before  he  had  seen  her,  she 
blushed,  and  listened  to  him  with  great  complacency.  But 
when  she  found  he  was  the  nephew  of  king  Saleh,  and 
the  cause  of  the  insult  her  father  had  received,  and  of  hei 
own  fright  and  grief,  she  soon  entertained  very  different 
sentiments  respecting  him.  She  gave  way  to  the  dictates 
of  fury  and  revenge,  which  yet  she  had  art  enough  to 
conceal.  She  suffered  such  expressions  of  favor  toward 
him  to  escape  her,  seemingly  in  her  confusion,  that  the 
fond  prince  was  enraptured;  and  by  reaching  forth  his 
hand  to  seize  that  of  the  princess,  he  put  himself  in  her 
powei*.  She  pushed  him  back,  and  spit  at  him,  saying, 
"  Wretch,  quit  the  form  of  a  man,  and  take  that  of  a  white 
bird  with  a  red  bill  and  feet."  The  spell  took  place 
directly;  and  the  unfortunate  Beder  became  a  bird  of  that 
description.  'c  Carry  him  now,"  said  the  revengeful  Giau- 
hara  to  one  of  her  attendants,  "to  yonder  solitary  rock, 
and  let  him  remain  there,  without  food  or  water,  till  he 
perishes." 

The  attendant  to  whom  the  fate  of  Beder  was  commit- 
ted, took  compassion  on  him.  "  How  cruel  it  is,"  thought 
she,  "to  destroy  so  accomplished  a  prince?  my  mistress 
will  certainly  one  day  repent  it."  Without  venturing  to 
expostulate  with  Giauhara,  she  took  charge  of  the  bird ; 
but  instead  of  carrying  him  to  the  barren  rock,  she  con- 
veyed him  to  a  neighboring  island,  well  planted  and 
watered,  where  he  would  have  no  difficulty  to  find  support. 

While  these  matters  were  transacting.  Saleh,  having 
secured  the  person  of  the  king  of  Samandal,  though  he 
treated  him  with  respect,  determined  to  keep  him  pris- 
oner, and  to  administer  the  government  of  his  kingdom 
till  Giauhara  should  return.  This  he  found  no  difficulty 
in  accomplishing.  He  appointed  trusty  officers  for  the 
several  departments,  and  then  returned  to  his  own  king- 
dom, where  he  found  all  the  princesses  of  his  family  in  great 
grief  for  the  absence  of  king  Beder.  But  as  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  sea  are  too  wise  to  indulge  long  in  a  fruitless 
sorrow,  those  august  persons  soon  comforted  each  otl.er, 
and  waited  for  hw  return  with  hope  and  patiei  ce. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  259 

The  king  of  Persia  still  continued  under  the  £brce  of 
enchantment,  and  gathered,  in  the  island  he  w&o  placed, 
that  subsistence  which  suited  the  form  he  bore.  It  hap- 
pened that  a  peasant,  who  was  skilled  in  taking  birds,  saw 
him;  and  being  much  pleased  with  his  beauty,  conceived 
to  ensnare  Mm.  He  carried  him  to  a  neighboring  city, 
where  he  was  offered  a  large  sum  for  him  by  a  luxurious 
citizen,  who  wished  to  gratify  his  appetite  with  so  tempt- 
ing a  morsel.  The  peasant  refused  his  offer,  not  doubting 
but  the  king  of  that  country  would  be  glad  to  have  so 
rare  and  beautiful  a  bird.  Nor  was  he  mistaken.  The 
king  paid  him  very  bountifully,  aud  immediately  sent  for 
the  queen,  to  present  her  with  his  purchase. 

When  the  queen  entered  the  room  where  the  bird  was, 
she  let  fall  her  veil,  and  told  the  king  that  it  was  a  prince 
of  illustrious  descent  he  hud  purchased  under  that  form. 
She  then,  at  her  husband's  request,  took  some  water  in  a 
cup,  and,  by  muttering  some  words  over  it,  caused  it  to 
boil.  This  she  sprinkled  on  the  bird,  saying,  "  By  virtue 
of  the  holy  and  mysterious  words  I  have  pronounced,  re- 
sume the  form  in  which  thou  wast  created."  Immediately 
the  bird  vanished,  and  a  handsome  young  man  paid  the 
warmest  thanks  to  his  royal  benefactors. 

The  king,  having  heard  Beder's  story,  embraced  and 
congratulated  him,  offering  him  every  service  *  in  his 
power.  "As  you  are  not  at  so  great  a  distance  from  your 
own  kingdom,"  said  he  to  the  king  of  Persia,  "  your  power 
of  couveying  yourself  through  the  sea  is  at  present  of 
very  little  service  to  you,  for  how  will  you  find  your  way 
through  it?  You  had  better,  therefore,  embark  in  some 
of  the  vessels  which  sail  hence  to  some  country  nearer 
your  own." 

Beder  followed  this  advice;  but  when  the  ship  had 
nearly  completed  her  voyage,  a  violent  storm  drove  her 
out  of  her  course ;  and  as  she  approached  the  shore  of  an 
unknown  land,  she  struck  against  a  hidden  rock,  and  beat 
to  pieces.  The  crew  all  perished  ;  but  the  king  of  Persia 
threw  himself  into  the  sea,  and  reached  the  shore  without 
difficulty.     As  he  approached  the  city,  he  was  net  by  a 


260  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

great  number  of  animals, — horses,  camels,  mules,  asses,  and 
other  beasts,  —  who  crowded  together  before  him,  and 
seemed  to  oppose  his  entering  it.  He  forced  his  way 
through  them,  and  on  entering  the  city,  found  the  streets 
spacious  and  well  built.  He  proceeded  a  considerable 
way  without  meeting  with  any  one,  and  came  at  last  to 
shops,  in  one  of  which  he  saw  an  old  man,  whom  he  court- 
eously saluted 

The  old  man  started  at  the  sight  of  the  prince,  and, 
without  answering  his  compliment,  pressed  him  to  come 
into  his  house.  Beder,  though  surprised  at  his  earnest- 
ness, complied;  when  the  old  man  congratulated  him  that 
he  had  obtained  that  shelter  before  any  misfortune  had 
befallen  him ;  asking,  at  the  same  time,  what  business 
brought  him  to  that  city,  and  whether  he  had  met  any- 
body in  his  walk  thither. 

Beder  told  his  host  what  had  happened  to  the  ship  ;  and 
added,  "  That  he  met  no  man  in  his  way  from  the  sea,  but 
had  been  strangely  opposed  by  a  number  of  animals  of 
different  sorts." 

"  Those  animals  were  your  friends,"  replied  Abdallah, 
which  was  the  name  of  the  old  man  ;  "  this  city  is  called 
the  city  of  enchantments;  it  is  governed  by  a  queen, 
named  Labe,  who  is  one  of  the  most  charming  and  most 
wicked 'of  her  sex;  inconstant,  cruel,  treacherous,  and  a 
sorceress.  All  those  animals  were  once  young  men, 
strangers  like  you,  whom  she  has  transformed  by  her 
diabolical  art.  She  has  regular  patrols  who  go  about  the 
avenues  of  the  city,  and  seize  all  strangers,  either  coming 
in  or  going  out  of  it.  They  are  carried  before  the  queen, 
and  if  she  fancies  either  of  them,  he  is  clothed  in  magnifi- 
cent apparel,  treated  as  a  prince,  caressed  by  the  queen, 
who  gives  him  such  proofs  of  affection  as  to  make  him 
conclude  she  loves  him  entirely.  This  happiness  is  not 
permitted  to  last  long;  for  within  forty  days  he  is  sure  to 
lose  the  human  shape  and  become  a  brute." 

The  king  of  Persia  heard  of  this  account  with  much 
concern.  "  How  unfortunate  am  I ! "  said  he  aloud ;  "  scarce 
freed   fnm   one   enchantment,  which    I   rememoer  with 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  261 

horror,. I  am  now  exposed  to  another  yet  more  terrible." 
Having  said  this,  he  very  frankly  told  his  host  who  he 
was,  and  what  had  befallen  him,  and  requested  his  advice 
how  to  conduct  himself  in  his  present  perilous  situation. 

"Prince,"  replied  Abdallah,  "the  wise  man,  and  the 
good  Mussulman,  will,  in  all  disastrous  events,  look  about 
for  such  circumstances  as  most  alleviate  distress,  and  from 
them  will  collect  courage  and  resignation  to  the  will  of 
Heaven.  It  is  true,  you  are  unfortunate  in  arriving  at 
this  city ;  but  then  your  having  missed  the  patrols,  and 
your  applying  to  me,  are  happy  events.  Know  that  there 
is  no  person  in  her  dominions,  whom  Labe  treats  with  so 
much  respect  as  myself;  the  cause  of  which  is,  that  she 
well  knows  she  has  much  reason  to  fear  me.  It  would  be 
too  bold  a  risk  to  attempt  to  get  out  of  the  city  yet ;  re- 
side a  little  time  with  me.  I  will  give  out  that  you  are  my 
nephew,  which  will  secure  you  the  civilities  of  the  citizens, 
and  you  will  not  be  considered  as  a  stranger;  and,  though 
it  will  not  protect  you  wholly  from  the  queen,  it  will  at 
least  make  her  cautious  how  she  behaves  to  you." 

The  king  of  Persia  thankfully  accepted  this  offer.  As 
Abdallah  knew  it  would  be  impossible  to  conceal  his  guest 
from  observation,  he  let  him  appear  openly ;  and,  on  all 
occasions,  spoke  of  him  as  his  nephew.  Near  a  month 
had  passed  when  Beder,  being  at  the  door,  saw  a  very 
6plendid  procession  apprqaching;  he  asked  his  host  what 
it  meant.  "The  queen  is  coming  by,"  answered  he,  "but 
do  you  stand  still,  and  fear  nothing." 

A  thousand  of  the  queen's  guards,  clothed  in  purple, 
armed  and  well  mounted,  marched  first,  with  their  sabres 
drawn  ;  then  followed  the  like  number  of  eunuchs,  habited 
in  rich  brocades ;  next  came  as  many  young  ladies  on  foot, 
splendidly  dressed,  and  marching  slowly  with  half  pikes 
in  their  hands  ;  in  the  midst  of  them  appeared  queen  Labe 
on  a  horse  all  glittering  with  diamonds,  with  a  gold  sad- 
dle, and  housing  of  inestimable  value.  All  the  retinue,  as 
they  passed,  saluted  Abdallah ;  and  the  queen,  when  she 
came  to  his  shop,  stopped  to  speak  with  him. 

At  t)e  sight  of  Beder,  the  queen  complimented  Abdal* 


262  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

lah  on  his  possessing  so  handsome  a  slave.  The  old  man 
told  her  he  was  a  nephew  whom  he  had  adopted  as  a  son 
"I  will  then,"  replied  the  queen,  "for  your  sake,  make 
him  as  great  and  powerful  as  ever  a  private  man  was  ;  let 
him  join  my  train."  Abdallah,  with  great  respect,  be- 
sought her  to  excuse  him ;  but  Labe,  having  gazed  ear- 
nestly on  the  prince,  became  much  pleased  with  him,  and 
very  importunate  with  the  old  man  to  part  with  him. 
Abdallah  was  exceedingly  grieved  for  king  Beder ;  but 
finding  the  queen  would  not  be  refused,  he  consented,  on 
condition  his  supposed  nephew  might  pass  one  more  day 
with  him. 

Most  part  of  this  day  he  passed  in  comforting  the  king 
of  Persia,  who  was  in  despair  when  he  found  he  should 
be  in  the  power  of  the  sorceress.  Abdallah  recommended 
him  to  place  no  confidence  in  the  queen's  professions,  but 
to  watch  her  with  the  most  jealous  attention,  and  if  any- 
thing happened  which  appeared  alarming,  to  consult  him 
immediately. 

The  next  day  Labe  came,  with  her  usual  train,  to  con- 
duct Beder  to  her  palace.  As  soon  as  she  arrived  at  Ab- 
dallah's  house,  he  went  up  to  her  and  said,  ''Puissant 
queen,  I  conjure  you  to  lay  aside  the  secrets  of  that  art 
you  possess  in  so  wonderful  a  degree ;  respect  my  nephew 
as  my  own  son ;  and  you  will  reduce  me  to  the  utmost 
despair  if  you  should  think  fit  to  deal  with  him  as  you 
have  done  with  others."  "I  understand  you  very  well," 
replied  the  queen,  "  and  swear  to  you  by  the  fire  and  the 
light,  and  by  whatsoever  is  sacred  in  my  religion,  that 
neither  you  nor  he  shall  have  cause  to  repent  your  com- 
pliance with  my  desire."  She  then  ordered  a  horse  to  be 
brought  for  the  prince,  as  richly  caparisoned  as  her  own, 
and  caused  him  to  be  placed  at  her  left  hand.  As  he  was 
mounting,  she  asked  Abdallah  what  was  the  name  of  his 
nephew;  and  being  told  Beder  (the  full  moon),  her  ma- 
jesty replied,  "Sure  it  was  a  mistake;  he  ought  to  have 
been  called  Shems"  (the  sun). 

When  they  arrived  at  the  palace,  the  queen  conducted 
Beder  through  the  apartments,  which  were  furnished  in 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  263 

the  most  magnificent  sty\e.  Before  dinner,  she  laid  aside 
her  veil,  and  discovered  a  face  uncommonly  charming. 
The  prince,  notwithstanding,  beheld  her  unmoved.  "  No 
one,"  thought  he,  "is  beautiful  whose  actions  are  hideous." 

But  when  dinner  was  over,  and  wine  was  introduced. — > 
when  music  and  dancing  had  softened  the  mind  of  the 
young  prince,  —  then  the  charms  of  the  enchantress  be- 
witched him ;  and  laying  aside  all  his  wholesome  fears. 
he  returned  her  caresses,  careless  of  the  consequences. 

For  nine-and-thirty  days  Beder  abandoned  himself  to 
these  enervating  pleasures  ;  but  in  the  evening  of  the  last 
of  these  days,  he  chanced  to  observe  the  queen  mix  a 
powder  in  a  cup  of  wine,  which  she  afterward  presented 
to  him.  His  suspicions  were  at  once  awakened.  He  con- 
trived to  change  the  cup  unobserved,  and  by  that  means 
avoided  drinking  the  potion,  though  he  knew  not  for  what 
purpose  it  was  administered.  The  powder  was  intended 
to  promote  sleep ;  and  when  Beder  and  the  queen  retired 
to  rest,  the  prince,  whose  mind  was  much  disturbed,  aided 
the  deception  unwittingly,  by  pretending  to  fall  asleep 
immediately,  in  order  to  avoid  conversation.  Labe  arose, 
and  not  doubting  but  that  her  powder  had  taken  the  de- 
signed effect,  proceeded  to  her  incantations;  Beder  all  the 
time  observing  her  with  the  most  anxious  solicitude. 

She  opened  a  chest,  and  taking  out  a  box  full  of  yellow 
powder,  she  laid  a  train  of  it  across  the  chamber,  when  a 
rivulet  of  water  appeared.  The  sorceress  poured  some  of 
the  water  into  a  basin  full  of  flour,. and  kneaded  it,  mixing 
certain  drugs,  and  all  the  while  muttering  over  it.  Having 
made  a  cake,  she  caused  a  fire  to  appear  in  one  corner  of 
the  room,  where  she  baked  it.  When  it  was  done,  she 
uttered  certain  words,  and  the  rivulet  and  fire  disappeared. 
The  queen  put  by  her  cake,  and  returned  to  bed. 

Beder  no  longer  doubted  but  Labe  meditated  mischief 
against  him.  In  this  situation,  he  reflected  with  deep 
regret  that  he  had  given  himself  up  to  sensuality  with  the 
abandoned  queen,  and  neglected  Abdallah.  He  resolved 
to  visit  hi-n  as  soon  as  it  was  day,  to  acknowledge  his 
fault,  and  entreat  his  advice  how  to  act  in  his  present 
situation. 


264  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Be  arose  accordingly,  and  leaving  queen  Labe  asleep, 
he  found  out  the  house  of  his  kind  host,  and  related  to 
him  all  that  had  passed.  Abdallah,  embracing  him,  said, 
"  You  have  shaken  off  your  folly,  my  dear  Beder,  and  you 
have  become  jealous  in  good  time.  You  are  not  mistaken; 
this  wicked  woman,  notwithstanding  her  repeated  oaths, 
meditates  your  ruin.  When  you  return,  she  will  present 
you  with  a  cake,  and  press  you  much  to  eat  it.  You  will 
do  well  to  slip  it  aside,  and  eat  a  piece  of  this  which  I 
will  now  give  yon.  When  she  thinks  you  have  swallowed 
it,  she  will  attempt  to  transform  you  into  some  animal. 
Finding  she  does  not  succeed,  she  will  pass  it  off  as  a  joke; 
but  her  hatred  of  you  will  become  extreme.  While  she 
is  in  this  confusion,  yon  must  present  her  with  her  own 
cake  whole.  As  she  will  think  she  has  failed  in  her  pur- 
pose from  some  omission  in  making  her  cake,  she  will 
readily  eat  some  of  yours,  to  remove  all  distrust  in  you, 
and  the  sooner,  because  she  will  think  you  broke  and  ate 
a  part  of  that  she  made.  As  soon  as  she  has  swallowed 
a  morsel  of  it,  throw  some  water  in  her  face,  and  bid  her 
quit  her  present  form,  and  take  any  one  yon  please." 

Beder  made  all  possible  acknowledgment  to  Abdallah 
for  defending  him  thus  from  the  wiles  of  a  pestilent  sor- 
ceress. On  his  return  to  the  palace,  the  queen  met  him 
with  much  seeming  affection ;  she  gently  chid  him  for 
having  left  her  so  long,  and  invited  him  to  walk  with  her 
in  the  garden.  When  they  came  to  a  cascade,  Labe,  with 
the  most  endearing  tenderness,  presented  the  prince  with 
a  cake,  which  she  told  him  was  of  her  making,  and  be- 
sought him  to  eat  it  for  her  sake.  Beder  received  it  with 
respect,  and,  bowing  low,  contrived  to  change  it  unob- 
served for  that  which  Abdallah  had  given  him.  As  soon 
as  he  had  eaten  a  little  of  it,  the  sorceress,  taking  some 
water  from  the  cascade,  threw  it  in  his  face,  saying, 
"  Wretch,  quit  the  form  of  a  man,  and  become  a  vile 
horse,  lame  and  blind." 

These  words  having  no  effect,  the  queen  appeared  con- 
fused, and  blushed  exceedingly ;  but  she  presently  began 
*jO  laugh  at  Beder,  who  gave  in  to  the  pleasantry,  and 


ARABIAN    NIGTITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  265 

laughed  with  her.  Soon  after,  he  said,  "  Charming  queen, 
the  only  gift  1  would  accept  of  from  my  uncle  this  morn- 
ing was  a  cake,  which  you  will  find  most  delicious,  if  you 
will  do  me  the  honor  to  taste  it."  Saying  this,  he  pre- 
sented her  with  her  own  cake.  In  order  to  regain  the 
confidence  of  the  king  of  Persia,  she  broke  off  a  piece 
and  ate  it.  But  she  had  no  sooner  swallowed  it,  than  she 
appeared  much  troubled,  and  remained  motionless.  Beder, 
catching  up  some  water  in  his  turn,  threw  it  in  her  face, 
saying,  "Abominable  sorceress,  quit  the  form  of  a  woman, 
which  th}r  crimes  so  much  dishonor,  and  become  a  mare." 
The  transformation  took  place  immediately. 

The  mare  appeared  very  sensible  of  her  situation,  for 
she  shed  tears  in  great  abundance,  and  bowed  her  head 
very  submissively  to  the  prince.  He  put  her  into  the 
hands  of  a  groom  to  bridle  and  saddle;  but  of  all  the 
bridles  in  the  stables,  not  one  would  fit  her.  Beder  or- 
dered the  groom  to  lead  her  with  him  to  Abdallah's  house, 
who  rejoiced  exceedingly  to  see  the  prince  safe,  and  the 
sorceress  in  that  situation.  The  old  man  soon  found  a 
bridle  which  fitted  her  exactly ;  when  having  dismissed 
the  groom,  he  said  to  Beder,  "  It  will  be  best  for  you,  my 
lord,  to  quit  this  city  immediately.  Mount  the  mare,  and 
return  to  your  kingdom.  But  before  you  leave  me,  let  me 
recommend  one  thing  to  your  especial  care,  which  is,  if 
ever  you  part  with  your  mare,  be  sure  to  deliver  the  bri- 
dle." Beder  promised  to  remember  this  caution,  and 
taking  an  affectionate  farewell  of  his  friend,  he  set  out 
for  Persia. 

After  several  days'  travelling,  he  arrived  at  the  suburbs 
of  a  great  city,  where  a  venerable  old  man  stopped  him, 
and  asked  him  from  what  part  of  the  world  he  came. 
While  they  were  talking,  an  old  woman  came  by,  and 
looking  at  the  mare,  sighed  and  wept  bitterly. 

Beder  was  affected  with  her  sorrow,  and  asked  her  the 
cause  of  it.  'Alas!  sir,"  said  she,  "it  is  because  your 
mare  so  exactly  resembles  one  my  son  had,  that  I  should 
think  it  the  same,  if  I  did  not  know  she  was  dead.  Sell 
her  to  me,  I  beseech  you ;  I  will  give  you  more  than  she 
23 


266  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

is  worth,  for  the  sake  of  him  who  once  owned  her  like- 
ness." 

The  king  of  Persia  told  her  he  would  on  no  account 
sell  his  mare.  But  she  continued  urging  and  entreating 
him,  till  he  was  tired  with  her  importunity.  At  length, 
seeing  her  very  poorly  dressed,  he  thought  of  a  method 
to  get  rid  of  her.  "  I  never  intended,"  6aid  he,  "  to  sell 
so  good  a  heast,  nor  will  I  now  for  less  than  a  thousand 
pieces  of  gold.  For  that  price  you  shall  have  her;  so  go 
homo  and  fetch  the  money."  "  I  have  no  need  to  go  home 
for  it,"  replied  the  old  woman,  unloosing  a  purse  she  had 
at  her  girdle,  "  here  is  exactly  the  sum  you  demand." 

Beder  was  surprised  to  find  so  shabby  a  woman  thus 
ready  with  such  a  large  sum.  He  bid  her  put  up  her 
money.  "  I  have  been  only  bantering  you,"  said  he;  "my 
mare  is  not  to  be  sold." 

The  old  man  had  been  witness  of  all  that  had  passed. 
"Son,"  said  he  to  Beder,  "it  is  necessary  you  should  know 
one  thing,  which  I  find  you  are  ignorant  of.  It  is  not  per- 
mitted in  this  city  for  any  one  to  tell  a  lie,  on  pain  of 
death.  As  you  have  made  a  bargain  with  this  old  woman, 
you  must  not  refuse  to  take  her  money  and  deliver  your 
mare,  or  you  will  expose  yourself  to  certain  destruction." 

The  king  of  Persia  found  himself  obliged  to  alight,  and 
give  up  his  mare.  In  his  confusion,  he  still  kept  hold  of 
the  bridle  long  enough  for  the  old  woman  to  slip  it  off  the 
mare's  head,  and  leave  it  in  his  hand.  The  old  woman 
then  taking  up  some  water  that  ran  in  the  street,  threw 
it  in  the  mare's  face,  saying,  "  Daughter,  quit  that  beastly 
form,  and  reassume  thine  own."  The  queen  was  immedi- 
ately restored,  and  Beder  was  so  terrified  when  he  saw 
her  that  he  was  unable  to  attempt  to  escape. 

The  old  woman  was  the  mother  of  queen  Labe,  and  had 
instructed  her  in  all  her  magic.  As  soon  as  she  had  em- 
braced her  daughter,  she  caused  a  genie  to  arise,  who, 
caking  Beder  on  one  shoulder,  and  the  old  woman  with 
queen  Labe  on  the  other,  he  transported  them  in  a  few 
minutes  to  the  palace  of  the  queen  in  the  city  of  enchant- 
ment*.    When  they  arrived,  Labe,  amidst  many  execra- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  267 

dons,  transformed  the  prince  into  a  vile  owl,  and  delivered 
him  to  one  of  her  attendants,  with  orders  to  shut  him  up 
in  a  cage,  and  keep  him  without  food  till  he  perished. 

The  attendant,  disregarding  the  queen's  command, 
locked  up  the  cage  in  a  room  where  no  other  person  could 
come,  leaving  him  plenty  of  food.  She  then  went  to  Ab- 
dullah, and  acquainted  him  with  the  fate  of  the  king  of 
Persia,  and  his  own  danger;  queen  Labe  having  vowed  to 
destro}^  him  by  next  morning. 

Abdallah  knew  the  power  and  the  malice  of  the  so:- 
ceress.  He  summoned,  therefore,  a  genie,  who  immedi- 
ately conveyed  the  attendant  to  the  court  of  Persia.  By 
the  direction  of  Abdallah,  she  told  queen  Gulnare  in  what 
situation  she  had  left  Beder.  The  affectionate  mother 
burst  into  tears  of  joy  at  hearing  of  her  son.  She  ordered 
the  trumpets  to  sound,  the  drums  to  beat,  and  caused 
proclamation  to  be  made  all  over  the  city,  that  king  Be- 
der was  about  to  return  to  his  capital.  She  then,  by  a 
certain  fumigation,  summoned  Saleh,  and  acquainted  him 
with  the  situation  of  his  nephew. 

Saleh  assembled  his  troops,  and  called  to  his  assistance 
the  genii,  his  allies,  who  appeared  with  their  numerous 
armies.  Gulnare  joined  them,  and  they  all  lifted  them- 
selves up  in  the  air,  and  soon  poured  down  on  the  palace 
and  the  city  of  enchantments,  where  the  magic  queen,  her 
mother,  and  all  the  other  adorers  of  fire,  were  put  to 
death.  Beder  was  again  restored  to  his  proper  form ;  and 
Abdallah,  being  placed  on  the  throne  of  Labe,  received  for 
his  queen  the  attendant  who  had  preserved  him  and  Beder. 

The  marriage  revived  the  attachment  of  the  king  of 
Persia  to  the  lovely  Giauhara;  and  Saleh,  desirous  of 
gratifying  the  wishes  of  his  nephew,  ordered  the  king  of 
Samandal  to  be  conducted  to  the  city  of  enchantments.  The 
pride  of  that  prince  had  been  now  sufficiently  humbled; 
he  rejoiced  in  the  opportunity  of  being  restored  to  his 
throne,  by  an  alliance  with  the  family  of  his  conquerors. 

Giauhara  obeyed  her  father  without  reluctance ;  and 
after  apologizing  to  the  king  of  Persia  for  the  severe 
treatment  which    filial  duty  had  compelled  her   to  offer 


268  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMLNT5. 

him,  she  gave  him  her  hand.  The  nuptials  were  solem« 
nized  with  the  utmost  magnificence;  all  the  lovers  of  the 
magic  queen,  now  restored  to  their  pristine  forms,  joyfully 
Assisting  at  them. 

THE    HISTORY    OF     GANEM,    SON    OP   AB0U   AYOUB,    SURHAMED 
love's    SLAVE. 

Abou  Ayoub  was  a  merchant  of  Damascus,  who  had,  by 
care  and  industry,  acquired  great  wealth.  He  had  a  son, 
a  very  accomplished  young  man,  whose  name  was  Ganem, 
afterward  called  Love's  Slave ;  and  a  daughter,  who,  on 
account  of  her  admirable  beauty,  was  named  Alcolomb,  or 
Kavisher  of  Hearts. 

Abou  Ayoub  died  ;  and  amidst  immense  riches,  he  left  a 
hundred  bales  of  brocades  and  other  rich  silks,  which  were 
ready  packed  in  the  warehouses,  and  marked  for  Bagdad- 
Some  time  after  his  death,  Ganem  resolved  to  carry  these 
goods  to  the  market  they  were  destined  for,  and  dispose 
of  them  among  his  father's  correspondents.  He  was  re- 
ceived by  them  with  great  respect,  and  soon  sold  his  goods 
to  his  satisfaction. 

Ganem  employed  the  time  he  had  to  stay  at  Bagdad  till 
the  return  of  the  caravan  in  improving  his  mind,  by  con- 
versing with  the  principal  merchants,  and  seeing  every- 
thing which  was  worthy  of  observation.  One  day,  on 
going  to  the  bezestein,  he  found  all  the  shops  were  shut; 
and  on  inquiring  the  cause,  he  was  told  that  one  of  the 
merchants,  whom  he  knew,  was  dead,  and  that  all  his 
brother  traders  were  going  to  his  funeral. 

Ganem  went  to  the  mosque,  and  arrived  there  before 
the  prayers  were  ended  ;  after  which,  the  body  was  taken 
up,  and  followed  by  the  kindred  and  the  merchants,  whom 
Ganem  joined,  to  the  place  of  the  burial,  which  was  at  a 
great  distance  from  the  city.  It  was  a  stone  structure, 
like  a  dome,  built  purposely  for  the  family  of  the  deceased. 
Tents  were  pitched  aroun<\  it  to  receive  the  company. 
The  monument  was  opened,  and  the  corpse  laid  in  it;  the 
imam  and  the  other  priests  sat  down  in  a  ring,  and  said 
ti«e  rest  of  the  prayers  ;  they  also  read  the  chapters  of  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  269 

Alcoran  appointed  for  the  burial  of  the  dead ;  the  kindred 
and  merchants  sitting  round  in  the  same  manner  behind 
them. 

It  was  near  night  before  all  was  ended.  Ganem,  who 
did  not  expect  so  long  a  ceremony,  began  to  be  impatient; 
and  more  so  when  he  saw  meats  served  in  memory  of  the 
deceased,  according  to  the  custom  of  Bagdad.  He  was 
also  told  that  the  tents  were  set  up  to  protect  the  com- 
pany from  the  evening  dews,  as  they  were  not  to  return 
to  the  city  before  morning.  Ganem,  who  had  consider- 
able property  in  his  house,  was  alarmed  at  this  account; 
and  having  eaten  a  little  of  the  meat,  he  contrived  to  slip 
away  from  the  company  unobserved. 

He  made  all  possible  haste  toward  the  city,  but  unluckily 
mistook  his  way ;  nor  could  he  even  find  the  track  to  the 
tents  again.  In  this  situation,  he  resolved  to  take  shelter 
for  the  night  in  one  of  the  tombs,  the  doors  of  which  they 
did  not  take  much  care  to  shut  fast. 

He  came  at  length  to  a  large  tomb,  before  which  grew 
a  palm-tree.  Here  the  young  merchant  entered,  and 
lying  down,  endeavored  to  sleep  ;  but  the  anxiety  he  was 
under  at  being  absent  from  home  prevented  him.  He 
arose,  therefore,  and  walked  backward  and  forward  before 
the  door.  After  some  time,  he  was  startled  to  see  a  light 
coming  toward  him.  He  shut  the  tomb,  and  climbed  up 
the  palm-tree  as  his  safest  retreat. 

He  had  scarce  seated  himself,  when  he  perceived  three 
slaves  enter  the  burial-place  ;  ene  of  them  bearing  a  light, 
the  other  two  a  large  chest;  which,  having  dug  a  hole, 
they  deposited  in  the  earth ;  and  filling  up  the  hole  aa 
smooth  as  possible,  they  departed. 

Ganem  concluded  that  the  chest  contained  something 
of  value.  When  the  slaves  were  gone,  and  daylight 
began  to  appear,  he  descended  from  the  palm-tree,  and 
with  much  labor  removed  the  earth  from  the  chest,  and, 
on  opening  it,  was  amazed  to  find  a  young  lady  of  incom- 
parable beauty,  magnificently  dressed ;  and,  though,  her 
eyes  wef  e  shut,  evidently  alive.  Ganem  lifted  her  out,  of 
the  chest,  and  the  fresh  air  presently  recovered  her 
28* 


270  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAIN  VIENTS. 

When  her  faculties  returned,  she  was  equally  frightened 
and  astonished  to  find  herself  in  a  burial-place.  Ganem 
approached  her  with  the  utmost  respect ;  he  expressed  his 
joy  at  having  been  the  means  of  saving  her  from  a  prema- 
ture grave,  and  offered  to  obey  her  commands  and  render 
her,  in  any  manner  she  chose,  the  services  she  stood  in 
need  of.  At  the  sight  of  Ganem,  the  lady  covered  her 
face  with  her  veil.  After  hearing  his  account,  and  seeing 
the  chest,  she  was  at  no  loss  to  comprehend  her  situation 
or  the  value  of  the  assistance  the  merchant  had  rendered 
her. 

But  the  present  was  no  place  for  explanation  ;  nor  could 
she  hesitate  to  accept  the  protection  even  of  a  stranger, 
when  the  perils  that  surrounded  her  were  so  numerous 
and  so  dreadful.  "  I  return  thanks  to  Heaven,  sir,"  said 
she,  "  for  having  made  you  the  means  of  my  deliverance; 
I  will  rely  on  your  integrity,  and  thankfully  accept  your 
offer  of  further  help.  It  is  highly  necessary  for  both  your 
safety  and  mine,  that  I  should  return  to  Bagdad  un- 
noticed; but  the  dress  I  wear  will  attract  the  attention  of 
the  people.  We  must  contrive  to  manage  this  matter 
first,  and  when  we  arrive  at  your  house,  I  will  fully  ac« 
quaint  you  with  my  situation." 

After  a  short  deliberation,  Ganem  drew  the  chest  out 
of  the  pit,  which  he  filled  up.  He  then  placed  it  in  a  part 
of  the  enclosure  where  it  was  least  likely  to  be  observed  ; 
and  having  persuaded  the  lady  to  lie  down  in  it  again,  he 
covered  it  over  with  loose  boughs,  and  went  into  the  cit}T; 
he  hired  the  first  muleteer  he  saw,  and  returning  to  the 
burial-place,  assisted  him  to  place  the  chest  on  the  back 
of  the  mule,  giving  him  some  plausible  reason  for  having 
deposited  it  there.  The  muleteer  was  not  very  curious ; 
he  carried  the  chest  to  the  merchant's  house,  and  having 
received  his  hire,  went,  well  satisfied,  about  his  business. 

Ganem  hastened  to  release  the  lady  ;  he  put  her  in  pos- 
session of  his  best  apartments,  and  then  left  her  to  repose. 
Eeturning  some  hours  after,  he  presented  her  with  two 
female  slaves,  which  he  had  bought  to  attend  her,  and  led 
her  to  a  table   covered  wTith  the  choicest  dainties.     The 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  271 

lady  by  this  time  was  much  recovered,  and  by  the  lively 
sallies  of  her  wit  completed  the  conquest  of  Ganem's 
heart.  The  young  merchant  had  not  before  felt  the  power 
of  love,  but  now  suffered  it  to  take  the  most  entire  pos- 
session of  his  soul. 

When  they  had  dined,  and  the  slaves  were  withdrawn, 
Ganem,  in  reaching  over  some  fruit  to  his  guest,  observed 
dcme  gold  letters  on  the  edge  of  her  veil,  which  he  re- 
quested she  would  explain.  "  Read  them,"  said  she,  taking 
off  her  veil ;  "  they  will  serve  to  introduce  my  story  to 
you."  The  young  merchant  was  so  delighted  with  the 
admirable  beauty  of  his  guest,  that  for  some  moments  he 
forgot  to  look  at  the  veil  he  held  in  his  hand;  but  when 
he  read  the  words,  he  was  covered  with  confusion,  for 
they  implied  that  the  wearer  was  betrothed  to  the  illus- 
trious caliph  Haroun  Alrasehid.  "Alas !  madam,"  said 
Ganem,  "  I  have  rescued  you  from  the  grave,  and  these 
words  on  your  veil  condemn  me  to  it." 

The  lady,  without  noticing  this  sally  of  her  deliverer, 
proceeded  to  acquaint  him  with  her  story.  "  My  name," 
said  she,  "is  Fetnah,  which  signifies  a  storm,  and  was 
given  me  because  it  was  predicted  at  my  birth,  that  the 
sight  of  me  would  occasion  many  calamities.  I  was,  very 
early  in  my  life,  introduced  into  the  palace  of  the  caliph, 
who  was  so  taken  with  me,  that  he  presented  me  this 
veil;  and  had  before  now  added  me  to  the  number  of  his 
wives,  had  not  his  presence  been  required  to  quell  an  in- 
surrection in  a  distant  part  of  his  dominions.  The  par- 
tiality of  the  caliph  raised  me  many  enemies  ;  the  chief 
of  whom  is  Zobeide,  his  first  wife,  and  for  a  long  time  his 
favorite.  This  violent  woman  has  taken  advantage  of 
his  absence ;  she  has  caused  my  slaves  to  administer  a 
sleepy  potion  to  me,  and  during  its  effect,  disposed  of  me 
in  a  manner  you  were  witness  to.  When  the  caliph  re- 
turns, he  will,  I  am  sure,  amply  reward  the  service  you 
have  done  me;  but  till  then,  it  is  necessary  that  1  should 
remain  in  the  utmost  privacy;  as  should  Zobeide  know 
that  I  had  been  delivered,  she  would  not  only  destroy  me, 
but  you  would  also  fall  a  sacrifice  to  her  cruelty  and  re- 
venge,  for  having  preserved  me." 


272  ARABIAN    NldHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

When  Fetnah  had  finished  her  narrative,  the  young  mer- 
chant replied,  with  a  sigh,  "Ah  !  madam,  your  story  has 
plunged  me  in  the  deepest  despair.  I  had  presumed  to 
encourage  hopes  that  I  must  forever  renounce.  I  will 
preserve  you  here  in  secret  for  your  illustrious  lover.  1 
cannot  cease  to  adore  you,  but  will  never  again  presume 
to  hint  my  passion  to  you.  I  know  too  well  my  duty  to 
the  commander  of  the  Faithful,  and  that  '  what  belongs 
to  the  master,  is  forbidden  to  the  slave.'" 

From  this  time  Ganem  waited  on  the  lady  with  the 
most  respectful  attention.  He  never  suffered  a  word  to 
escape  him  on  the  subject  of  his  passion  for  her,  but  his 
eyes  and  actions  continually  spoke  for  him.  Fetnah,  who 
had  no  affection  for  the  caliph,  could  not  resist  the  attrac- 
tions of  a  handsome  young  man,  who  had  been  so  mate- 
rially her  benefactor,  and  whose  love  for  her  was  unques- 
tionable. She  devoted  her  whole  heart  to  him ;  yet  they 
were  both  restrained  by  a  sense  of  duty  to  the  commander 
of  the  Faithful  from  coining  to  an  explanation,  Ganem 
often  repeating,  "  What  belongs  to  the  master,  is  forbidden 
to  the  slave." 

But  though  no  expressions  of  affection  escaped  the  lips 
of  either  of  the  lovers,  yet  they  passed  every  hour  to- 
gether which  was  not  devoted  to  indispensable  avocations. 
When  they  were  for  a  little  time  thus' divided,  Fetnah 
counted  the  hours  of  Ganem's  absence,  and  he  flew  with 
rapture  to  her  presence  as  soon  as  he  could  dispatch  his 
business.  Several  months  glided  away  in  this  manner. 
At  length  the  young  merchant  growing  impatient,  began 
to  drop  hints,  inviting  his  lovely  guest  to  retire  with  him 
to  Damascus,  and  unite  her  fate  with  his.  Fetnah  had 
almost  determined  to  accept  his  offer,  when  a  little  female 
vanity,  and  a  well-founded  but  indiscreet  indignation,  put 
an  end  to  all  Ganem's  hopes,  and  plunged  them  both  into 
very  severe  calamities. 

Fetnah  could  not  bear  that  Zobeide  should  triumph  in 
the  success  of  her  barbarous  arts.  Without  considering 
the  consequences  to  herself  or  her  protector,  she  deter, 
mined   to  lay  before  the   caliph   the  wickedness   of  that 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  273 

princess.  She  requested  Ganem  to  inquire  if  the  comman- 
der of  the  Faithful  was  returned,  and  whether  any  notice 
was  taken  of  her  supposed  death. 

Ganem  conducted  these  inquiries  with  great  dexterity. 
He  learnt  that  immediately  after  her  having  been  disposed 
of  in  the  burial-place,  a  report  of  her  death  had  been  in- 
dustriously spread  all  over  the  city ;  that  Zobeide  had 
celebrated  her  obsequies  with  great  pomp,  and  had  erected 
a  mausoleum  to  receive  the  bod}*,  where  lighted  candles 
were  perpetually  burning,  and  every  ceremonj*  performed 
which  custom  had  appointed  for  the  illustrious  dead. 

He  heard  further,  that  the  caliph  had  returned  to  Bag- 
dad more  than  a  month  ;  that  on  his  arrival  he  had  ex- 
pressed the  utmost  sorrow  for  the  loss  of  his  beloved  Fet- 
nah  •  that  he  caused  the  ceremonies  to  be  repeated  with 
still  greater  magnificence,  and  that  they  were  still  con- 
tinued. Prayers  and  the  Alcoran  were  recited,  and  the 
caliph,  attended  by  his  officers  in  the  deepest  mourning, 
every  day  moistened  the  earth  that  covered  the  phantom 
of  his  love,  with  his  tears. 

Fetnah,  on  receiving  this  report,  drew  up  a  relation  of 
all  that  had  befallen  her.  This,  by  the  help  of  Ganem. 
she  contrived  to  lay  before  the  caliph.  Haroun  read  the 
account  of  his  favorite's  sufferings  with  surprise  and  ten- 
derness, and  with  indignation  against  Zobeide.  But  to- 
ward the  close  of  her  narrative,  Fetnah  had  enlarged  a 
little  too  much  on  the  care  which  Ganem  took  of  her. 
The  manner  also  in  which  she  spoke  of  her  deliverer, 
betrayed  to  the  jealous  prince  the  state  of  her  heart! 

"Is  it  so?"  exclaimed  the  enraged  caliph;  "  the  perfi- 
dious wretch  has  been  four  months  with  a  young  mer- 
chant, and  dares  to  boast  of  the  respect  he  pays  her 
Thirty  days  are  past  since  my  return  to  Bagdad,  and  she 
now  bethinks  hei-self  of  telling  me  this  news.  Ungrateful 
creature !  while  I  have  passed  the  hours  in  bewailing  her, 
she  has  spent  them  in  betraying  me.  Go  to,  let  us  take 
revenge  on  the  false  woman,  and  on  that  bold  youth  who 
affronts  me." 

The  caliph  immediately  dispatched  Giafar  with  order? 


274  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS*. 

to  level  Ganem's  habitation  to  the  ground,  and  to  brng 
him  and  Fetnah  prisoners  to  the  palace.  The  grand  vi- 
zier had  no  difficulty  in  finding  out  the  house  of  the  young 
merchant,  which  chanced  to  stand  detached  from  any 
other.  He  ordered  his  troops  to  surround  it,  that  neither 
he  nor  Fetnah  might  escape. 

The  instant  Fetnah  saw  the  soldiers  posting  in  a  circle 
round  her  asylum,  she  concluded  that  her  memorial  to  the 
caliph  had  been  attended  with  effects  very  different  from 
what  she  had  expected.  Though  not  without  alarm  on 
her  own  account,  her  principal  concern  was  for  Ganem. 
Her  influence  with  the  caliph  she  trusted  could  meet  his 
anger;  but  to  his  rage  and  jealousy,  her  host,  her  deliv- 
erer, would  certainly  fall  a  sacrifice.  She  hastily  explained 
to  Ganem  the  nature  of  their  situation,  and  without  lis- 
tening to  his  desire  of  staying  with  her  and  sharing  her 
fate,  she  obliged  him  to  disguise  himself  like  a  slave  be- 
longing to  an  eating-house,  and  putting  on  his  head  the 
dishes  they  had  just  eaten  their  dinner  from,  she  opened 
the  door  and  dismissed  him. 

Giafar  was  advancing  to  the  house  when  he  met  Ganem; 
but  being  deceived  by  his  appearance,  he  suffered  him  to 
pass  without  examination  ;  and  the  soldiers  seeing  him  go 
by  tne  grand  vizier  unnoticed,  gave  him  way  also ;  he  got 
speedily  to  one  of  the  city  gates,  and  escaped. 

When  the  grand  vizier  entered  the  house,  he  found 
Fetnah  sitting  in  a  room  where  were  a  number  of  chests 
full  of  the  money  which  Ganem  had  made  of  his  goods. 
The  minister,  in  the  most  gentle  manner,  communicated 
his  master's  orders  to  the  lady,  who  declared  herself  ready 
to  attend  him ;  but  added,  that  the  merchant  to  whom  she 
owed  her  life,  had  been  gone  above  a  month  to  Damascus- 
She  then  besought  Giafar  to  preserve  the  chests  which 
contained  her  deliverer's  property,  which  he  readily  un- 
dertook to  do. 

The  grand  vizier  having  given  orders  for  destroying  the 
house,  conducted  Fetnah  to  the  palace,  and  entering  the 
royal  palace,  gave  the  caliph  an  account  of  his  proceed- 
ings.    Haroun  was  sc  enraged  when  he  found  the  young 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  275 

merchant  had  escaped,  that  he  refused  to  see  Fetriah;  he 
ordered  her  to  be  shut  up  in  the  dark  tower,  a  prison 
within  the  walls  of  the  palace,  where  the  attendants  of 
the  caliph  were  punished  when  they  disobliged  hirn,  and 
where  he  vowed  the  unfortunate  Fetnah  should  end  her 
days. 

JS"ot  satisfied  with  this  victim  to  his  fury,  the  enraged 
caliph  wrote  to  his  cousin  Zinebi,  who  held  the  kingdom 
of  Syria  as  his  tributary,  to  find  out  Ganem,  if  possible, 
and  send  him  a  prisoner  to  Bagdad.  He  ordered  his  house 
there  to  be  plundered  and  then  razed;  and  all  his  nearest 
relations  to  be  led  naked  through  the  city  for  three  days, 
after  which  they  were  to  be  banished  Damascus;  the  cit- 
izens, also,  were  forbidden  to  give  them  shelter  or  relief 
on  pain  of  death. 

Zinebi,  though  he  received  these  orders  with  great  re- 
gret, knew  his  duty  to  the  commander  of  the  Faithful  too 
well  to  delay  obedience.  He  went  with  a  few  attendants 
to  Ganem's  house,  where  he  found  his  mother  and  sister 
retired  into  a  dome  they  had  erected  at  a  tomb  for  their 
beloved  relation  ;  of  whom,  as  they  had  heard  nothing 
for  a  long  time,  they  supposed  to  be  dead.  Zinebi,  having 
caused  the  house  to  be  diligently  searched  for  Ganem,  told 
the  ladies  in  the  most  gentle  manner,  that  he  had  incurred 
the  high  displeasure  of  the  caliph,  and  hinted  to  them  that 
the  resentment  of  the  commander  of  the  Faithful  had  ex- 
tended itself  to  them.  This  affectionate  mother  and  her 
daughter  wTere  so  rejoiced  to  hear  that  Ganem  was  alive 
that  they  at  first  disregarded  the  severities  which  were 
denounced  against  them.  Zinebi,  moved  wTith  their  piety, 
took  off  his  robe  and  covered  them  wTith  it,  to  protect 
them  from  insult ;  he  then  led  them  out,  and  gave  the 
signal  for  the  mob  to  plunder.  Chests  full  of  wealth,  fine 
Persian  and  Indian  carpets,  and  other  rich  goods  were 
carried  off  by  the  rabble;  after  which  the  house  was  lev- 
elled with  the  ground  in  the  presence  of  the  afflicted 
ladies;  who,  having  undergone  the  first  part  of  their 
punishment,  were  conveyed  to  the  palace,  where  the  queen 
of  Zinebi  treated  them  with  as  much  tenderness  as  she 
durst. 


276  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

The  next  day,  proclamation  was  made  through  the  city 
of  Damascus  of  Granem's  offence,  and  of  the  furthur  pun- 
ishment which  the  caliph  had  ordered  to  be  inflicted  on 
his  relations.  The  citizens  heard  these  cruel  and  unjust 
commands  with  the  highest  indignation.  They  shut  up 
their  houses  and  shops,  and  avoided  the  streets  at  the 
time  the  unhappy  ladies  were  led  through  them.  Even 
the  officers  executed  their  duty  without  rigor,  and  suffered 
them  to  wear  a  loose  robe  of  horse-hair  which  some  of 
their  friends  had  ventured  to  provide  for  them. 

The  sentence  being  fulfilled,  they  were  banished  the 
city,  and  the  inhabitants  strictly  forbidden  to  give  them 
any  assistance.  Notwithstanding  this  injunction,  they 
were  supplied  with  apparel  and  mone}^  by  their  compas- 
sionate neighbors  ;  and  left  Damascus,  rejoicing  amidst 
their  sufferings,  that  their  beloved  was  yet  alive. 

While  these  matters  passed  at  Damascus,  Fetnah  con- 
tinued a  close  prisoner  in  the  dark  tower,  where  she 
ceased  not  to  bewail  the  fate  of  her  unfortunate  deliverer. 
One  night,  as  the  caliph  wns  returning  from  an  evening 
perambulation,  he  passed  by  the  dark  tower,  and  over- 
heai'd  Fetnah  lamenting  her  situation.  She  bewailed  the 
ruin  of  Granem,  and  deprecated  the  wrath  of  Heaven  upon 
the  caliph  ;  whom  she  charged  in  the  most  pointed  terms 
wth  cruelty,  injustice,  and  ingratitude. 

This  accident  caused  the  caliph  to  recollect  himself. 
He  sent  for  Fetnah,  and  caused  her  to  relate  to  him  all 
that  had  befallen  her.  She  dwelt  much  on  the  obligations 
she  was  under  to  Granem.  She  praised  the  respect  with 
which  he  had  always  behaved.  "  I  will  not  conceal  from 
your  majesty,"  continued  she,  "that  at  first  he  seemed 
desirous  to  devote  himself  to  me  ;  but  as  soon  as  he  heard 
I  had  the  honor  of  being  acceptable  to  yon,  he  exclaimed, 
'That  which  belongs  to  the  master  is  forbidden  to  the 
slave.'  From  that  moment  his  behavior  was  agreeable  to 
such  an  idea;  assiduous,  but  distant  and  respectful.  Not- 
withstanding which,  you,  commander  of  the  faithful, 
know  with  what  rigor  you  have  treated  him;  and  you 
will  answTer  for  it  before  the  tribunal  of  God." 


ARABIAN    NTGTITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  271 

Though  Haroun  was  violent  in  his  passions,  and  some- 
times gave  himself  up  to  their  influence  too  hasti.y,  yet 
he  loved  justice,  and  when  calm,  was  open  to  conviction. 
He  regretted  exceedingly  the  severity  he  had  exercised 
toward  G-anem,  and  was  not  displeased  with  the  frankness 
of  Fetnah.  "At  least,"  said  the  humbled  prince,  "  I  will 
meet  that  awful  appeal,  with  having  made  every  repara- 
tion in  my  power;  I  will  cause  his  pardon  to  be  published 
throughout  my  dominions,  and  will  amply  repay  his  losses. 
This  is  due  to  his  innocence,  and  to  compensate  for  the 
miseries  I  have  caused  him  and  his  family  to  suffer,  I  will 
give  you  to  him  for  a  wife,  and  make  him  wealthy  beyond 
his  hopes." 

Fetnah  returned  the  caliph  thanks  for  his  justice ;  after 
which,  she  was  permitted  to  return  to  the  apartments 
which  she  had  formerly  possessed  in  the  palace ;  and  she 
had  the  satisfaction  to  find  there  all  the  chests  belonging 
to  Granem,  which  the  vizier  had  taken  care  to  convey 
thither. 

Proclamation  was  made  all  over  the  dominions  of  the 
caliph,  declaring  the  son  of  Abou  Ayoub  pardoned,  and 
inviting  him  to  return  to  Bagdad,  and  receive  the  bounty 
of  his  sovereign ;  but  a  long  time  elapsed  without  any 
news  of  the  young  merchant.  Fetnah  became  exceedingly 
unhappy  on  his  account.  Besides  using  every  means  of 
inquiry  in  her  power,  she  went  from  mosque  to  mosque, 
bestowing  alms  among  the  devotees,  and  soliciting  their 
prayers. 

One  day,  as  she  was  talking  with  a  syndic,  to  whom 
she  had  given  a  large  sum  to  be  distributed  among  the 
afflicted,  he  chanced  to  mention  two  women  whom  her 
bounty  had.  enabled  him  to  relieve  when  in  a  state  of 
great  distress.  He  spoke  so  much  in  their  praise,  that 
Feinah  had  a  desire  to  see  them.  They  were  introduced 
to  her;  and  she  was  so  taken  with  their  appearance,  that 
she  inquired  with  great  tenderness  into  the  cause  of  that 
misery  from  which  they  had  been  rescued  by  the  good 
syndic. 

"Alas!  madam,"  replied  the  elder  stranger,  "a  favorite 

24 


278  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  the  caliph,  whose  name  was  Fetnah,  is  the  cause  of  ali 
our  misfortunes."'  These  words  were  a  thunderbolt  to  the 
lady,  who  was  scarce  able  to  suppress  her  emotion,  while 
the  stranger  proceeded  with  her  story,  which  announced 
her  the  mother  of  G-anem  ;  and  her  fellow-sufferer  to  be 
his  sister,  the  lovely  Alcolomb. 

By  the  time  she  had  finished  her  story,  Fetnah  was  in 
some  degree  recovered.  She  embraced  the  parent  of  her 
lover.  "I  am  that  Fetnah,"  said  she,  "who  caused  all 
your  distresses,  but  I  have  it  in  my  power  to  make  you 
full  amends."  She  then  related  to  them  all  that  had  be- 
fallen her  and  Ganem  ;  and  concluded  with  saying,  that 
the  caliph  was  convinced  of  her  son's  innocence,  and  im- 
patient to  repair  his  wrongs.  Having  finished  her  nar- 
rative, she  exchanged  embraces  with  them,  and  they 
mutually  vowed  a  lasting  friendship. 

When  Fetnah  was-  about  to  withdraw,  the  syndic 
recommended  to  her  benevolence  a  young  man  who  had 
been  just  brought  into  his  house,  and  seemed  oppressed 
with  sorrow  as  well  as  illness.  Fetnah,  whose  heart  was 
more  than  ever  disposed  to  pity,  by- the  affecting  inter- 
view she  had  just  had,  wished  to  see  him.  On  beholding 
him,  lying  on  his  bed,  his  eyes  closed,  his  face  pale  and 
emaciated,  she  started,  and  thought  that  she  discovered 
amidst  all  this  wretchedness,  the  countenance  of  her  be- 
loved G-anem.  She  called  him  so,  but  the  sufferer  regarded 
her  not.  Grieved  and  impatient,  she  exclaimed,  "How 
am  I  deceived  !  this  cannot  be  Ganem;  the  son  of  Abou 
Ayoub,  however  sick,  would  know  the  voice  of  Fetnah." 
At  that  name,  Ganem  (for  it  was  he)  opened  his  eyes, 
and  seeing  his  adored  mistress,  attempted  to  speak ;  but 
his  joy  was  too  great.  He  sank  into  a  swoqn.;  and  the 
condition  to  which  Fetnah  was  reduced,  convinced  the 
syndic  it  was  necessary  to  remove  her  from  the  apart- 
ment of  his  patient. 

It  was  not  till  several  days  after,  when  Ganem  was 
much  recovered,  that  the  prudent  syndic  would  suffer 
another  interview  between  the  lovers.  At  length  he 
permitted  it;  and  having  properly  prepared  each  party, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  279 

he  introduced  to  him  also  his  mother  and  his  sister.  After 
the  transports  of  their  mutual  J03'  had  in  some  measure 
subsided,  G-anem  told  them  Jiat  having  escaped  to  an  in- 
considerable village,  not  far  from  Bagdad,  he  had  con- 
tinued safe  among  the  friendly  peasants;  but  a  sickness 
seizing  him,  caused  by  his  grief  and  perturbation,  which 
ijone  of  them  could  cure,  they  had  sent  him  to  Bagdad. 
Lry  the  camel-driver,  in  whose  hands  the  syndic  had  found 
him. 

Ganem's  mother  then  related  all  that  had  befallen  her 
and  Alcolomb.  Even  the  presence  of  his  beloved  Fetnah 
could  not  prevent  the  young  merchant  from  shedding  tears 
at  their  sufferings.  He  expressed,  also,  his  apprehensions 
lest  they  should  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  furious  caliph. 
Fetnah  presently  removed  those  fears :  but  when  she 
added  that  the  commander  of  the  faithful  had  determined 
to  resign  her  to  her  lover,  in  compensation  for  his  suffer- 
ings, the  joy  of  G-anem  was  inexpressible. 

The  caliph  Was  soon  informed  by  Fetnah  that  the  vic- 
tims of  his  former  ungovernable  rage  were  in  his  capital : 
the  generous  prince  rejoiced  that  he  had  at  last  an  oppor- 
tunity of  making  them  a  reparation.  He  desired  Fetnah 
to  lead  the  ladies  to  the  palace  private]}*;  but  ordered  his 
officers  of  state  to  wait  on  Ganem,  and  conduct  him  to  the 
palace,  with  all  the  marks  of  respect  conferred  on  persons 
of  the  most  honorable  character. 

This  ceremony  over,  Ganem  was  presented,  together 
with  his  mother  and  sister,  to  the  caliph.  That  prince 
had  the  goodness  to  apologize  to  them  for  what  had 
passed.  He  gave  Fetnah  with  his  own  hand  to  her  de- 
serving lover.  He  dismissed  Zobeide  from  his  throne  and 
banished  her  his  presence,  to  punish  her  cruelty  and 
treachery;  in  her  room,  he  received  to  his  arms  the  lovely 
Alcolomb,  whose  beauty  was  adorned  with  good  qualities 
still  more  estimable 

THE   HISTORY  OF    PRINCE    ZEYN  ALASNAM,  AND  THE    KING  OF 
THE    GENII. 

A  king  of  Balsora,  who  possessed  great  wealth,  and  was 
beloved  by  his  subjects,   hud   no  children,    which    was   a 


280  ARABIAN    EIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

great  affliction  to  him.  He  therefore,  made  presents  to 
all  the  holy  persons  in  his  dominions,  to  engage  them  to 
})eg  of  Heaven  to  grant  him  a  son.  Their  prayers  proved 
effectual.  The  queen  was  happily  delivered  of  a  prince, 
who  was  named  Zeyn  Alasnam,  which  signifies,  ornament 
of  statues. 

The  king  called  all  the  astrologers  of  the  kingdom  to 
calculate  the  infant's  nativity.  They  found  he  wc.ild  live 
long,  and  be  very  brave;  but  that  all  his  courage  would  be 
little  enough  to  support  him  through  certain  difficulties 
that  threatened  him.  The  king  was  not  dismayed  at  this 
prediction.  "  My  son,"  said  he,  "  is  not  to  be  pitied,  since 
he  will  be  >brave.  It  is  fit  that  princes  should  have  a 
taste  of  misfortune  ;  adversity  tries  virtue,  and  thence 
they  become  the  fitter  to  reign." 

As  Ze}-n  grew  up,  he  discovered  a  very  go^d  disposi- 
tion ;  and  by  the  care  of  his  father,  acquired  every  accom- 
plishment. He  had  nearly  attained  the  age  of  manhood, 
when  the  good  old  king  fell  sick  and  died. 

Zeyn  was  much  afflicted  at  the  death  of  his  father,  whom 
he  sincerely  loved ;  but  time  moderating  his  grief,  he 
began  to  enjoy  the  pleasures  of  a  throne.  He  entered 
into  all  the  follies  and  vices  which  so  often  mislead  young 
men.  He  was  surrounded  with  parasites.  He  lavished 
his  treasures  on  unworthy  favorites,  on  whom  he  bestowed 
also  the  first  appointments  in  his  kingdom  ;  and  they  at 
once  oppressed  and  insulted  his  people. 

From  this  delusion  he  was  awakened  by  two  circum- 
stances alike  distressing  and  disgraceful.  He  found  his 
treasures  dissipated,  and  his  subjects  ripe  for  a  revolt. 
By  dismissing  his  worthless  companions,  and  wholly  re- 
forming his  conduct,  he  appeased  his  people ;  bit  the 
waste  of  his  wealth  could  not  be  recalled  ,  and  the  recol- 
lection of  his  prodigality  rendered  him  very  unhappy. 

"While  these  thoughts  had  possession  of  his  mind,  he 
dreamt  one  night,  that  a  venerable  old  man  came  toward 
him,  and  said,  "You  know,  Zeyn,  that  joy  and  sorrow 
generally  succeed  each  other.  If  you  would  put  an  end 
to  your  present  affliction,  get  up,  set  out  for  Egypt,  and 


,        ARABIAN     NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  281 

go  to  Grand  Cairo;  a  greater  fortune  attends  you  there, 
than  you  have  lately  dissipated." 

The  prince,  when  he  awoke  in  the  morning,  reflected 
on  his  dreams  very  seriously.  He  resolved  at  length  to 
set  out  for  Cairo.  This  determination  made  it  necessary 
to  commit  the  government  of  the  kingdom  to  his  mother, 
who  tried  in  vain,  by  serious  argument  and  by  ridicule,  to 
stop  his  journey  on  so  chimerical  a  business;  but  the 
appearance  of  the  old  man  had  made  so  great  an  impres- 
sion on  Zeyn,  that  he  was  fully  persuaded  his  dream  was 
supernatural.  Having  therefore  disposed  of  his  affairs,  he 
set  out  one  night,  very  privately,  and  took  the  road  to 
Cairo,  without  suffering  any  person  to  attend  him. 

After  much  fatigue,  he  arrived  at  that  famous  city. 
Being  spent  with  weariness,  he  lay  down  at  the  gate  of  a 
mosque,  and  fell  asleep ;  when  he  saw  the  same  old  man, 
who  said  to  him,  "  I  am  well  pleased,  my  son,  that  you 
have  given  credit  to  my  words.  1  have  put  you  on  this* 
long  journey  to  try  if  you  had  resolution.  I  find  you 
deserve  I  should  make  you  the  richest  man  in  the  world. 
Return  to  Balsora,  and  you  shall  find  immense  wealth  in 
your  palace." 

The  prince  was  not  well  pleased  with  this  dream.  He 
determined  to  return  immediately,  and  rejoiced  that  he 
had  kept  his  journey  a  secret  from  everybody  but  the 
queen,  his  mother.  When  he  arrived  at  his  palace,  that 
discreet  princess  did  not  reprove  or  laugh  at  him,  but 
rather  consoled  him  under  his  disappointment ;  and  ad- 
vised him  to  abstain  from  all  excesses  in  future,  and  turn 
his  thoughts  to  the  good  order  of  his  kingdom,  and  the 
nappiness  of  his  subjects. 

Zeyn  was  much  relieved  by  this  conversation.  He  re- 
tired to  rest,  when  he  again  saw  the  old  man  in  a  dream, 
who  said  to  him,  "  The  time  of  your  prosperity  is  now 
come,  brave  Zeyn.  As  soon  as  you  rise  in  the  morning, 
take  a  pickaxe,  and  dig  in  your  father's  closet ;  you  will 
there  find  immense  treasure." 

In  the  morning  he  hastened  to  the  queen's  apartment, 
and  with  much  earnestness  told  her  his  new  dream.     His 
24  * 


282  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

mother,  finding  he  again  placed  confidence  in  the  vision, 
laughed  at  him.  "Go,"  said  she,  "search  your  father's 
closet  diligently;  one  comfort  is,  that  work  is  not  so  toil- 
some as  a  journey  to  Egypt." 

The  young  man  withdrew,  abashed.  He  went,  notwith- 
standing, to  the  late  king's  closet,  and  shutting  himself  in, 
r<  moved  the  pavement.  He  proceeded  to  dig  till  he  not 
only  fatigued  himself,  but  began  to  despair ;  when  he  dis- 
covered a  stone,  and  under  it  a  door,  which  covered  a 
staircase  of  white  marble.  He  descended  into  a  room,  in 
each  corner  of  which  there  stood  ten  large  urns  of  por- 
phyry stone.  The  prince  supposed  they  were  full  of  wine, 
but  on  examining  them,  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find 
they  all  contained  gold  coin  ;  a  handful  of  which  he  car- 
ried to  the  queen. 

That  princess  was  astonished  at  this  account.  Zeyn 
conducted  her  to  the  chamber  where  the  urns  were;  and 
as  she  was  observing  everything  with  attention,  she  espied 
a  very  small  urn  of  the  same  stone,  which  the  prince  had 
not  taken  notice  of.  On  searching  it,  they  found  only  a 
small  gold  key.  "My  son,"  said  the  queen,  "this  key  cer- 
tainly will  lead  us  to  some  other  treasure.  Let  us  look 
about ;  perhaps  we  may  discover  the  use  it  is  designed  for." 

After  a  diligent  search,  they  discovered  a  keyhole  in 
one  of  the  panels  of  the  wainscot.  Zeyn  tried  the  key, 
which  opened  a'  door  that  led  to  another  chamber,  in 
which  were  nine  pedestals  of  massy  gold.  On  eight  of 
these  stood  statues  as  large  as  life,  each  formed  of  an 
entire  diamond,  of  the  most  admirable  workmanship. 
The  ninth  pedestal  redoubled  their  amazement.  It  was 
covered  with  a  piece  of  white  satin,  on  which  were  these 
words:  "My  son,  it  caused  me  much  toil  to  get  these 
statues ;  they  are,  as  you  see,  exquisitely  beautiful,  and 
of  immense  value.  But  know,  there  is  a  ninth  which 
surpasses  them  all ;  that  alone  is  worth  a  thousand  such 
as  these.  Would  you  obtain  this  inestimable  jewel,  go  to 
Cairo,  and  submit  yourself  to  the  instruction  of  an  old 
slave  of  mine,  named  Morabec,  whom  you  will  find  with- 
out difficulty." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  283 

Zeyn  instantly  declared  his  intention  of  going  in  search 
of  this  jewel,  and  the  queen  now  applauded  his  determina- 
tion. Having  secured  the  treasure  they  had  found,  the 
prince  made  ready  his  equipage;  and  attended  by  a  few 
slaves,  set  off  for  Cairo. 

He  soon  found  Morabec,  who  lived  in  great  splendor. 
Zeyn  related  to  him  all  that  had  befallen  him;  which, 
when  Morabec  had  heard,  he  fell  at  his  feet.  "  I  am  con- 
vinced," said  he,  "from  your  account  that  you  are  the  son 
of  my  royal  master;  and  as  I  never  received  my  freedom 
from  him,  I  and  all  that  I  possess  are  yours."  "  I  now," 
replied  Zeyn,  "  give  you  your  freedom,  and  renounce  ail 
right  to  your  wealth.  I  ask  in  return,  that  you  will  zeal- 
ously assist  me  till  I  have  gained  the  ninth  statue." 

Morabec  gratefully  acknowledged  the  prince's  generos- 
ity, and  promised  to  attend  him.  "  The  enterprise,"  said 
he,  "will  abound  with  danger  and  fatigue.  Eepose  your- 
self here  for  some  time,  and  we  will  then  undertake  it." 
Zeyn  reluctantly  complied,  but  after  a  very  little  while  he 
became  impatient.  "  I  came  not  to  Cairo,"  said  be  to  his 
friends,  "to  indulge  myself  in  rest  and  amusements;  but 
to  obtain  the  ninth  statue."  Morabec  praised  his  spirited 
disposition,  and  ordered  a  proper  equipage  to  be  got 
ready ;  the  prince  and  he  then  performed  an  ablution, 
and  the  prayer  which  is  called  Farz ;  after  which  they 
set  out. 

After  several  days'  travelling  they  arrived  at  a  delicious 
grove,  where  Morabec  caused  the  whole  company  to  alight. 
Zeyn  and  he  delivered  their  horses  to  the  care  of  their 
attendants,  whom  they  ordered  to  await  their  return. 
They  set  forward  on  foot,  and  as  they  proceeded,  Morabec 
cautioned  the  prince  to  call  forth  all  his  courage.  "We 
are  now,"  said  he,  "  approaching  the  dreadful  place  where 
the  ninth  statue  is  kept,  and  shall  very  soon  come  to  a 
lake.  When  we  draw  near  the  banks  of  it,  you  will  see 
a  boat  approach,  which  is  enchanted,  and  belongs  to  tho 
king  of  the  genii.  We  shall  be  taken  into  this  boat,  and 
ferried  over  the  lake;  but  you  must  be  careful  not  to  ex- 
press the  least  fear  at  the  sight  of  the  waterman,  however 


284  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

hyJcous  he  may  be,  nor  must  you  utter  a  single  word  while 
we  are  embarked,  or  the  boat  will  instantly  sink." 

Zeyn  promised  an  exact  obedience  to  these  injunctions. 
They  presently  came  to  the  lake,  and  found  the  boat  ready 
to  receive  them.  It  was  made  of  red  sanders,  had  a  mast 
of  amber,  and  a  satin  flag;  but  the  waterman  was  mon- 
strous and  terrible.  He  had  the  head  of  an  elephant,  and 
the  body  of  a  tiger.  Zeyn  drew  near  with  great  intrepid- 
ity. He  lifted  the  prince  first,  and  then  Morabec  into  his 
boat,  with  his  trunk,  conveyed  them  over  the  lake  in  a 
moment,  and  putting  them  on  shore  in  the  same  manner, 
immediately  vanished. 

"  JSTow,"  said  Morabec,  "we  may  talk;  I  congratulate 
you  on  that  fortitude  and  self-command  which  you  have 
displayed,  and  for  which  you  will  soon  have  still  greater 
occasion.  We  are  now  on  an  island  which  belongs  to  the 
king  of  the  genii.  Look  around  you,  and  enjoy,  as  we  go 
forward,  the  surpassing  beauties  of  this  delightful  place." 
Zeyn  saw  with  admiration  the  enchanting  prospect.  The 
fields  were  finely  disposed,  and  adorned  with  all  sorts  of 
odoriferous  plants  and  flowers ;  the  trees  were  laden  with 
the  most  delicious  fruit ;  the  air  was  uncommonly  soft  and 
pleasant ;  and  the  harmonious  songs  of  numberless  birds, 
man}7  of  which  were  peculiar  to  that  island,  enlivened  the 
beautiful  scenes  around  them.  The  prince,  though  very 
greatty  pleased  with  what  he  beheld,  urged  his  compan- 
ion to  hasten  forward  on  the  great  business  they  had  un- 
dertaken. 

At  length  they  came  to  a  palace  built  of  emeralds ;  be- 
fore the  gate,  which  was  of  massy  gold,  there  stood  a 
company  of  genii,  who  guarded  the  entrance  with  clubs 
of  China  steel.  The  sight  of  these  terrific  sentinels  did 
not  in  the  least  check  the  ardor  of  the  prince; -he  wass 
pressing  forward,  when  Morabec  caught  him  by  the  hand, 
and  told  him  that  something  more  than  human  virtues  or 
talents  was  now  necessary.  Ho  then  drew  from  a  purse 
four  long  strips  of  yellow  taffety;  one  he  put  about  his 
middle  and  the  other  on  his  back,  giving  the  remaining 
two  to  the  prince,  who  did  the  same  with  them.     Morabec 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  285 

then  spread  two  large  cloths  on  the  ground,  and  sprinkling 
the  borders  of  them  with  precious  stones,  musk,  and  am- 
ber, he  seated  himself  in  the  midst  of  one  of  them,  and 
directed  Zeyn  to  place  himself  in  the  same  manner  on  the 
other.  "I  will  now,"  said  he,  "conjure  the  king  of  the 
genii,  who  lives  in  the  palace  before  us,  that  he  may  come 
to  us  peaceably.  I  am  not  without  apprehension  as  to  the 
reception  he  may  choose  to  give  us.  If  our  coming  here 
is  displeasing  to  him,  he  will  appear  in  the  shape  of  a  hor- 
rible monster;  in  which  case  you  must  sit  still  and  keep 
an  entire  silence,  not  suffering  the  least  sound  to  escape 
you.  If  he  is  favorably  disposed  toward  us,  he  will  come 
in  the  shape  of  a  handsome  young  man.  You  will  then, 
as  soon  as  he  appears,  rise  and  salute  him  with  all  possible 
respect,  and  tell  him  the  business  which  brings  you  hither. 
But  take  especial  care  not  to  step  off  your  cloth,  or  you 
will  certainly  perish." 

Morabec,  having  thus  instructed  the  prince,  began  his 
conjuration.  Immediately  their  eyes  were  dazzled  with  a 
flash  of  lightning,  which  was  followed  by  most  tremendous 
thunder ;  the  whole  island  was  covered  with  a  hideous 
darkness ;  a  storm  of  wind  blew ;  a  dreadful  cry  was 
heard;  and  the  island  was  shaken  by  an  earthquake,  such 
as  Asrayel  is  to  cause  on  the  day  of  judgment. 

The  steady  soul  of  the  prince  wTas  a  little  startled  at 
ihese  awful  appearances,  which  he  began  to  consider  as 
very  ill  omens.  Morabec  perceived  what  passed  in  his 
mind,  and  assured  him  that  all  was  well.  At  that  instant 
the  king  of  the  genii  appeared,  as  a  very  handsome  man, 
yet  there  was  a  sternness  in  his  air. 

As  soon  as  prince  Zeyn  had  paid  his  compliments  and 
related  what  he  came  in  search  of,  the  king  of  the  s;enii, 
smiling,  answered:  "My  son,  I  loved  your  father,  and 
have  no  less  kindness  for  you.  The  statues  you  found 
were  presented  to  him  by  me;  and  I  promised  him  to 
receive  you  into  my  protection.  I  caused  him  to  write,  a 
few  days  before  he  died,  that  which  you  read  on  the  pieco 
of  white  satin.  I  appeared  to  you  in  your  dreams  as  an 
old  man,  and  have  been  the  cause  of  all  that  hath  happened 


286  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

to  you,  I  intend  to  give  you  what  you  seek,  if  yew  prove 
worthy  of  it;  and  the  test  must  be  this.  You  must  engage 
on  your  oath  to  find  out  a  maid  in  her  fifteenth  year,  who 
has  never  known  man,  or  desired  to  do  so.  She  must  be 
perfectly  beautiful ;  and  you  so  much  master  of  yourself, 
as  not  even  to  wish  to  deprive  me  of  her,  but  you  must 
yourself  conduct  her  hither." 

Prince  Zeyn  took  without  hesitation  the  oath  that  was 
required  of  him.  "  But,  sir,"  said  he,  "  how  shall  I  know 
when  I  have  met  with  such  a  maid?"  '•  It  is  true,"  re- 
plied the  king  of  the  genii,  "that  knowledge  is  above  the 
sons  of  Adam.  Take  therefore  this  looking-glass ;  if,  on 
the  maid  looking  at  it,  it  appears  sullied,  it  will  be  a  cer- 
tain sign  that  she  has  not  been  always  undefiled,  or,  at 
least,  that  she  has  wished  to  cease  being  so.  You  have 
now  a  certain  criterion.  Be  diligentjin  your  search,  and 
forget  not  the  oath  you  have  taken ;  but  fulfil  it,  as  be- 
comes a  man  of  honor." 

The  king  of  the  genii  having  delivered  the  mirror  to 
Zeyn,  gave  him  and  Morabec  permission  to  depart.  They 
returned  to  the  lake;  the  waterman  with  the  elephant's 
head  brought  his  boat  and  ferried  them  over;  they  joined 
their  servants  and  returned  to  Cairo. 

When  the  prince  had  rested  a  few  days,  he  began  to 
apply  himself  diligently  to  perform  his  engagement  with 
the  king  of  the  genii.  By  the  assistance  of  an  intriguing 
old  woman,  whom  Morabec  introduced  to  him,  Zeyn  ob- 
tained access  to  all  the  beautiful  young  women  in  the 
court  and  city  of  Cairo.  He  saw  many  of  the  most  ex- 
quisite beauty ;  but  when  he  consulted  his  mirror,  the 
fatal  touchstone  of  their  virtue,  it  always  appeared  sullied. 

Zeyn,  thus  disappointed,  resolved  to  seek  elsewhere  for 
that  purity  which  was  not  to  be  found  in  Cairo.  He  trav- 
elled to  Bagdad,  attended  by.  Morabec;  and  as  he  wished 
to  be  much  known,  to  forward  his  inquiries,  took  a  hand- 
some palace,  and  lived  in  splendor. 

inhere  resided  in  that  quarter  of  the  city  an  imam, 
wnose  name  was  Boubekir,  a  vain,  haughty,  envious  old 
man;  he  hated  the  rich  only  because  he  was  poor;  and 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  287 

under  the  appearance  of  an  austere  and  rigid  virtue  he 
indulged  his  ill-nature  in  railing  at  the  luxury  of  those 
who  were  in  prosperous  circumstances.  By  this  hypoc- 
risy, and  by  often  haranguing  the  people  when  in  the 
mosque,  he  had  acquired  considerable  influence,  which  he 
used  with  much  art,  to  gratify  the  malignity  of  his  dis- 
position. 

The  magnificence  of  Prince  Zeyn  soon  rendered  him 
obnoxious  to  the  imam,  which  was  increased  by  the  prince 
taking  no  notice  of  him.  Boubekir  took  an  opportunity 
of  addressing  the  people  one  evening  after  prayers;  and 
by  sly  insinuations,  and  charges  half  suppressed,  he  irri- 
tated them  against  the  spendthrift  stranger,  as  he  called 
him.  He  hinted  the  necessity  of  giving  notice  to  the 
council  of  Zeyn's  manner  of  living,  lest,  if  anything  should 
be  proved  against  him,  the  caliph  should  be  displeased 
with  their  inattention.  In  short,  he  so  cajoled  the  assem- 
bly, that  they  agreed  to  present  a  memorial  against  Zeyn 
to  the  council;  and  gave  directions  to  Boubekir  to  pre- 
pare it. 

Fortunately  Morabec  was  at  prayers,  and  remained 
unnoticed  among  the  crowd;  he  heard  all  that  passed. 
He  immediately  hastened  home,  and  putting  five  hundred 
pieces  of  gold  into  a  purse,  he  went  to  the  house  of  the 
imam.  Boubekir  received  him  with  his  usual  austerity, 
and  surlily  asked  what  he  wanted.  "Doctor,"  replied 
Morabec,  with  an  obliging  air,  and  at  the  same  time  put- 
ting the  purse  in  his  hand,  "I  am  your  neighbor  and  your 
servant;  I  come  from  Prince  Zeyn,  who  lives  just  by;  he 
has  heard  of  your  worth,  and  desires  the  pleasure  of  your 
acquaintance."  As  soon  as  the  purse  reached  the  hand 
of  the  imam,  his  rigor  melted  away.  "  Be  pleased,  sir," 
said  he,  "  to  beg  the  prince's  pardon  for  me  ;  I  am  ashamed 
I  have  not  yet  been  to  wait  on  him,  but  I  will  atone  for 
that  fault  to-morrow. " 

Next  day,  after  morning  prayer,  Boubekir  said  to  the 
assembly,  "You  know,  brethren,  that  no  man  is  without 
enemies;  and  that  envy  always  pursues  the  fortunate  and 
meritorious.     The  stranger  I  spoke  to  you  about  yester- 


288  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

day,  is  no  ill  man,  as  some  malicious  persons  would  have 
persuaded  me,  but  a  young  prince,  possessed  of  many 
virtues.  It  would  be  dangerous  as  well  as  indecent,  for 
us  to  make  a  bad  report  of  him  to  the  caliph." 

Boubekir  having  thus  done  away  the  unfavorable  im- 
pression he  had  himself  made  on  the  people  concerning 
Zeyn,  waited  on  the  prince,  who  gave  him  a  courteous 
reception.  Morabec,  judging  that  such  a  busy  man  was 
likely  to  know  the  character  of  his  fellow-citizens,  ad- 
vised Zeyn  to  acquaint  the  imam  with  the  search  he  was 
making;  nor  was  he  mistaken.  When  Boubekir  heard 
the  relation,  he  cried  out,  that,  "if  there  was  such  a  virgin 
in  the  world,  he  knew  her."  In  fact,  the  imam  now  be- 
came Zeyn's  zealous  adherent,  introduced  the  prirce  to  a 
young  lady,  the  daughter  of  a  vizier,  whose  beauty  aston- 
ished the  young  king  of  Balsora;  and,  on  pulling  out  his 
mirror,  to  try  if  the  maid  was  as  chaste  as  fair,  he  had 
the  satisfaction  to  find  it  remained  unsullied. 

Zeyn  having  at  last  succeeded  in  his  difficult  search, 
demanded  the  young  lady  of  her  father  in  marriage.  The 
vizier  gladly  consented;  and  the  nuptials  were  celebrated 
with  splendor.  Zeyn  loaded  his  new  father-in-law  with 
the  most  costly  presents;  nor  was  Boubekir  forgotten. 
When  the  company  were  dismissed,  Morabec  advised  his 
master  to  set  out  immediately  for  Cairo,  and  to  proceed 
with  all  diligence  to  the  island  of  the  king  of  the  genii. 

Zeyn  did  not  listen  to  this  advice  with  his  usual  compla- 
cency. Morabec  found  him  strangely  balancing  whether 
he  should  keep  his  engagement  with  that  king,  or  conduct 
his  charming  bride  to  Balsora  in  defiance  of  him.  In  vain 
Morabec  pleaded  the  value  of  the  ninth  statue,  which 
would  reward  his  fidelity;  in  vain  he  described  the  power 
of  the  king,  and  cautioned  the  prince  to  dread  the  conse- 
quence of  his  disobedience.  The  charms  of  the  lovely 
virgin  had  taken  too  full  possession  of  his  heart  for  him 
to  be  allui'ed  b}^  avarice,  or  intimidated  by  danger;  and 
the  thought  of  sacrificing  her  to  a  genie,  oppressed  him 
with  grief  and  indignation 

But  to  the  call  of  honor,  and  to  the  sanctity  of  an  oath, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  289 

Zeyn  could  not  refuse  to  listen.  Morabec  point  Kl  out 
these  obligations,  and  adjured  the  prince  to  subduo  his 
passions,  and  fulfil  his  engagement.  "Well,  then,"  ex- 
claimed he,  "I  yield  to  these  cruel  obligations;  let  us  set 
out  with  all  haste  for  this  fatal  island;  and  do  you  conceal 
the  lovely  maid  from  my  sight.  Perhaps  I  have  already 
seen  too  much  of  her." 

They  set  out  accordingly,  Zeyn  carefully  refraining 
from  the  sight  of  his  bride  all  the  way.  On  their  arrival 
at  the  island,  it  became  necessary  to  acquaint,  the  young 
lady  with  her  destination.  The  grief  and  despair  she 
expressed  on  receiving  the  information,  was  a  new  and 
severe  trial  of  the  prince's  fortitude.  He  persevei^ed, 
notwithstanding,  and  presented  her  to  the  king  of  the 
genii.  The  sovereign  of  spirits,  having  gazed  at  her  for 
some  time  very  earnestly,  ordered  his  attendants  to  con- 
vey her  into  the  castle,  and  turning  to  Zeyn,  who  could 
scarcely  conceal  his  distress,  the  king  commended  his 
integrity  and  resolution.  "  I  am,"  said  he,  "  fully  satisfied 
with  your  hehavior.  Return  to  your  dominions;  and 
when  you  enter  the  subterraneous  room,  where  the  eight 
statues  are,  you  shall  find  the  ninth,  which  I  promised  you." 

Zeyn  coldly  thanked  the  king  of  the  genii;  and  having 
taken  leave  of  him,  returned  to  Balsora.  He  approached 
his  capital,  overwhelmed  with  affliction  for  the  loss  of  his 
bride ;  and  unceasingly  condemning  himself  for  having 
been  the  cause  of  her  misfortune. 

On  his  arrival,  he  went  directly  to  give  his  mother  a*n 
account  of  his  journey.  She  was  in  raptures  to  hear  he 
had  obtained  the  ninth  statue.  "Let  us  go,  my  son," 
said  she,  "  and  see  it  immediately;  no  doubt  it  is  already 
■n  the  chamber  underground,  since  the  king  of  the  genii 
promised  you  should  find  it  there." 

Though  Zeyn's  desire  of  possessing  the  ninth  statue 
was  much  abated,  or  rather  forgotten,  through  his  exces- 
sive grief,  yet  he  had  too  much  respect  for  his  mother  to 
delay  attending  her  to  the  subten*aneous  apartment;  but 
how  great  was  their  wonder  when,  instead  of  a  diamond 
statue,  they  fcvnd  on  the  ninth  pedestal  a  most  beautiful 
25 


290  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

virgin,  w.iom  the  prince  knew  to  be  the  same  he  tad  con- 
ducted to  the  island  of  the  genii.  Before  they  could 
recover  their  surprise,  a  loud  clap  of  thunder  shook  the 
palace,  and  the  king  of  the  genii  appeared  before  them 
Zeyn's  mother  was  much  terrified,  but  the  king  soon 
dispelled  her  fear.  "Madam,"  said  he  to  her,  "I  protect 
and  love  your  son  ;  yet  it  was  proper  I  should  try  whether 
he  deserved  my  partiality,  before  I  gave  him  the  best  gift 
in  my  power.  I  had  the  pleasure  to  find  him  possessed  of 
many  and  great  virtues;  and  though  I  knew  he  did  not 
punctually  keep  his  word  with  me,  I  am  too  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  frailty  of  human  nature  to  wonder  that 
the  charms  of  this  beautiful  virgin  made  him  waver  in  his 
fidelity."  Then  turning  to  the  prince,  he  said,  "Live 
happy,  Zeyn,  with  this  young  lady,  who  is  your  wife;  love 
her,  and  her  only,  and  I  will  be  answerable  for  her  fidelity. 
This — this  is  the  ninth  statue,  which  I  designed  for  you, 
and  it  is  infinitely  more  precious  than  all  the  rest ;  for  be 
assured,  there  is  nothing  on  earth  to  be  compared  with  a 
virtuous  and  lovely  woman." 

THE  HISTORY  OF  CODADAD  AND  HIS  BROTHERS 

There  reigned  formerly  in  the  city  of  Harran,  a  king 
called  Zaphnah.  He  was  beloved  by  his  subjects,  and 
wanted  nothing  to  complete  his  happiness  but  an  heir. 
Though  he  had  many  of  the  finest  women  in  his  seraglio, 
yet  he  was  destitute  of  children.  He  continually  prayed 
to  Heaven  for  them,  and  one  night  the  prophet  appeared 
to  him  in  his  sleep  and  said,  "  Zaphnah,  thy  prayers  are 
heard,  and  thou  hast  obtained  thy  desires.  Go  into  thy 
garden  when  thou  wakest ;  gather  a  pomegranate,  and 
eat  as  many  seeds  as  thou  choosest,  and  thy  wishes  shall 
be  accomplished." 

In  the  morning,  the  king  obeyed  these  directions.  Hav- 
ing returned  thanks  to  Heaven,  he  went  into  the  garden, 
where  he  took  fifty  pomegranate  seeds,  which  he  counted 
and  ate.  Zaphnah  had  fifty  wives,  who  all  of  them  shortly 
after  proved  with  child,  though  one  of  them,  named  Pi- 
rouze,  showed  no  appearance  of  it.     The  king  was  so  dia- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  291 

grusted  with  he?  on  this  account,  that  he  determined  to 
put  her  to  death.  But  his  vizier,  who  had  great  influence 
over  him,  and  was  very  humane,  interceded  so  strongly 
for  her,  that  Zaphnah  suffered  himself  to  be  overcome. 
"  Her  barrenness,"  said  he,  "  is  a  mark  of  the  displeasure 
of  Heaven.  Let  her  live,  but  let  her  depart  my  court.  My 
cousin,  the  prince  of  Samaria,  shall  receive  her.  If  she 
is  with  child,  let  me  know  it  on  her  delivery;  if  not,  let 
me  never  hear  her  name  again." 

Pirouze  was  sent  accordingly  to  the  court  of  Samaria. 
In  due  time,  the  other  nine-and-forty  ladies  were  each 
delivered  of  a  prince,  and  while  Zaphnah  was  rejoicing  at 
these  events,  news  arrived  that  Pirouze  had  also  produced 
a  son,  whose  beauty  the  prince  of  Samaria  praised  in  the 
highest  terms. 

Though  Zaphnah  was  much  pleased  at  the  birth  of  his 
fiftieth  son,  yet  being  ashamed  of  the  severity  with  which 
he  had  treated  his  mother,  he  determined  not  to  recall  her 
to  Harran.  He  sent  her  compliments  of  congratulation  ; 
but  at  the  same  time  desired  his  cousin  would  give  the 
child  the  name  of  Codadad,  and  carefully  superintend  his 
education  ;  sufficiently  showing  by  these  orders  that  he 
did  not  intend  soon  to  recall  Pirouze  and  her  son  to  his 
court. 

The  prince  of  Samaria  performed  his  office  with  the 
greatest  attention.  Codadad,  under  his  tuition,  became 
oae  of  the  most  accomplished  of  princes.  As  he  grew  up, 
hb  began  to  be  impatient  to  visit  his  father's  court,  and 
finding,  when  he  had  reached  his  eighteenth  year,  that 
Zaphnah  expressed  no  desire  to  see  him,  he  threw  himself 
at  his  mother's  feet,  and  besought  her  permission  to  go 
to  Harran.  "  I  will  present  myself,"  said  he,  "  to  my 
royal  father,  without  discovering  myself  to  him.  I  will 
offer  him  my  services  ;  possibly  I  may  be  so  fortunate  as 
to  merit  his  esteem  ;  and  he  will  then  receive  me  as  his  son 
without  reluctance." 

Pirouze  apf  roved  of  his  resolution,  and  Codadad  left 
Samaria  accordingly.  When  he  arrived  at  the  city  of 
Harran,  he  offered  his  services  to  the  king.  Zaphnah. 
24* 


292  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

struck  with  his  appearance,  and  perhaps  moved  by  ? 
natural  sympathy  in  his  favor,  readily  accepted  of  them. 
It  was  not  long  before  Codadad  had  an  opportunity  to 
signalize  his  bravery  in  such  a  manner  as  to  gain  the 
high  approbation  of  the  king,  and  the  applause  of  the 
whole  army  ;  nor  were  his  other  talents  less  conspicuous. 
Zaphnah's  affection  for  him  increased  daily.  He  admired 
his  discourse,  ever  full  of  wit  and  wisdom;  and  at  length, 
to  show  how  much  he  approved  of  his  admirable  talents, 
he  appointed  the  j^oung  stranger  governor  of  his  forty- 
nine  sons,  though  he  was  apparently  of  the  same  age  with 
themselves. 

The  princes  had  before  seen,  with  a  jealous  eye,  the 
progress  Codadad  daily  made  in  their  father's  favor.  This 
appointment  increased  their  envy  and  hatred.  They  re- 
ceived him  with  the  appearance  of  respect,  but  had  already 
planned  his  destruction. 

After  a  few  days  they  came  together  to  their  new  gov- 
ernor, and  requested  his  permission  to. take  a  day's  hunt- 
ing ;  resolving  to  go  to  some  other  city,  and  stay  there,  in 
hope  that  their  father  would  revenge  their  supposed  loss 
on  his  new  favorite,  and  put  him  to  death.  Codadad 
granted  their  request ;  but  was  much  surprised  to  find 
that  none  of  them  returned  in  the  evening.  His  alarm 
increased  when  the  next  day  and  the  day  following  passed 
and  the  princes  still  continued  absent.  On  the  fourth  day 
the  king  inquired  of  Codadad  where  his  sons  were,  and 
why  he  had  not  seen  them  Tor  several  days.  The  unfortu- 
nate governor  was  obliged  to  tell  the  truth.  Zaphnah,  as 
the  princes  had  foreseen,  was  exceedingly  enraged.  "  Is 
it  thus,  indiscreet  stranger,"  said  he,  "that  you  begin  to 
discharge  the  important  trust  I  have  committed  to  you  ? 
G-o,  find  my  sons  immediately,  or  expect  to  feel  the  utmost 
weight  of  my  resentment." 

Codadad,  though  much  afflicted,  thought  himself  fortu- 
nate to  have  escaped  so  well  out  of  the  king's  presence. 
He  went  home,  and  having  armed  himself,  ard  put  on  thtt 
disguise  of  a  shepherd,  he  left  the  city,  and  set  forward  in 
search  of  hi?  brothers. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  293 

After  many  days  spent  Ll  vain,  be  arrived  at  a  plain  of 
great  extent,  in  the  middle  of  which  was  a  palace  of  black 
marble.  When  he  drew  near,  he  saw  at  one  of  the  win- 
dows a  most  beautiful  lady,  wbo  was  evidently  in  great 
affliction.  As  soon  as  she  saw  him,  she  called  out,  saying, 
'Alas,  young  man  get  away  as  fast  as  possible  from  this 
fatal  place,  or  you  will  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  monster 
who  inhabits  it.  A  cruel  black  giant,  who  feeds  chiefly 
on  human  flesh,  resides  in  this  palace:  he  seizes  on -all 
persons  whose  ill  fortune  conducts  them  to  this  plain,  and 
shuts  them  up  in  his  dark  dungeon  ;  whence  they  are 
never  let  out,  but  to  be  devoured  by  him." 

Codadad  was  very  anxious  to  know  who  his  fair  in- 
former was,  and  whether  he  could  not  release  her  out  of 
the  castle.  "  I  fell  into  the  hands  of  this  barbarian  yester- 
day only,"  replied  she.  "  He  destroyed  my  servants,  but 
saved  me,  I  fear,  for  a  more  dreadful  fate.  You,  generous 
stranger,  can  yield  me  no  assistance.  Fly  with  all  speed  ; 
the  monster  is  not  for  off;  and  you  will  be  fortunate  if  your 
utmost  haste  can  save  you." 

She  had  scarce  uttered  these  words,  when  the  black 
appeared.  He  was  a  man  of  enormous  size  and  dreadful 
aspect,  mounted  on  a  mighty  Tartar  horse,  and  wore  such 
a  large  and  weighty  scimitar,  that  no  one  but  himself 
could  use  it.  The  prince  was  a  good  deal  startled  at  his 
appearance,  but  drew  his  scimitar,  and  stood  upon  his 
defence.  The  giant,  despising  so  weak  an  adversary, 
called  out  to  him  to  surrender,  with  a  mixture  of  real 
scorn  and  affected  gentleness  ;  but  Codadad  soon  convinced 
him  he  was  no  despicable  enemy ;  for  running  briskly  up 
to  him,  he  gave  him  a  violent  cut  on  the  knee.  The  black, 
feeling  himself  wounded,  gave  such  a  dreadful  shriek,  as 
made  all  the  plain  resound.  He  grew  enraged,  foamed  at 
the  mouth,  and  raising  himself  in  his  stirrups,  struck  a". 
Codadad  with  his  dreadful  scimitar,  which  must  have 
destroyed  him,  if  he  had  not  with  great  dexterity  avoided 
it.  The  scimitar  made  a  great  hissing  in  the  air ;  but  be- 
fore the  giant  could  recover  himself,  the  prince  aimed, a 
roble  blow  at  his  right  arm,  and  cut  it  off.  The  scimitar 
25* 


294  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

fell  with  the  hand  that  held  it;  and  the  giant  losing  his 
seat  through  the  extremity  of  the  pain,  made  the  earth 
quake  with  his  fall.  Condadad  ran  up  to  him,  and  com- 
pleted the  victory  by  chopping  off  his  enemy's  head.  The 
lady,  who  had  been  a  spectator  of  the  combat,  seeing  the 
giant  destroyed,  gave  a  shout  for  joy  ;  and  then  called  out 
to  the  conqueror  to  search  the  pockets  of  the  slain,  and 
secure  the  keys  of  the  castle. 

Godadad  having  followed  her  advice,  opened  the  first 
loor,  where  the  lady  met  him,  and  would  have  embraced 
jis  knees  for  her  deliverance,  but  he  prevented  her.  He 
jad  now  leisure  to  contemplate  her  beauty ;  and  was  re- 
joiced that  he  had  been  able  to  do  so  essential  a  service  to 
io  lovely  a  woman.  Their  conversation  was  interrupted 
by  dismal  cries  and  groans.  Codadad  looked  round  to 
find  whence  they  proceeded,  when  the  lady  pointing  to  a 
little  door,  said,  "There  is  the  place  where  a  number  of 
unhappy  men  are  confined,  who  were  destined  for  the 
food  of  the  cruel  wretch  you  have  destroyed.  Every  day 
he  drew  out  one  to  be  devoured."  "  It  is  an  addition  to 
my  joy,"  replied  the  prince,  "that  I  am  the  means  of 
saving  so  many  unfortunate  persons  from  such  a  dreadful 
end.  Come  with  me,  madam,  and  share  in  the  pleasure 
of  giving  them  their  libert}T." 

Codadad  went  accordingly  to  the  little  door,  when  the 
prince  put  a  key  into  the  lock,  wThich  proved  to  be  a 
wrong  one.  All  the  prisoners,  supposing  it  was  the  giant, 
sent  forth  groans  and  lamentations.  Codadad  made  haste 
to  change  the  key,  and  having  opened  the  door,  descended 
among  them.  He  began  to  unchain  those  who  were 
nearest  to  him,  and  made  them  understand  that  he  had 
slain  their  enemy,  and  was  come  to  set  them  free.  As  tho 
report  spread  among  the  prisoners,  shouts  of  a  very  dif- 
ferent nature  rent  the  cavern.  Those  first  unchained  set 
free  others,  and  in  a  very  little  time  they  were  all  at  lib- 
erty ;  and,  leaving  the  dungeon,  ascended  joyfully  to  light 
and  life. 

,When  they  were  come  into  the  court,  they  returned 
thajks  to  their  deliverer,  in  terms  becoming  those  who 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  295 

had  received  so  great  a  benefit.  Codadad's  joy  was  un- 
bounded when  he  found  among  the  prisoners  the  nine-, 
and-forty  princes,  his  brothers.  He  embraced  them  with 
the  sincerest  affection,  not  without  anxiety  till  he  found 
every  one  of  them  was  safe ;  and  they  on  their  part  gave 
their  deliverer  all  the  praises  he  deserved. 

The  slaves  of  the  giant,  when  they  found  their  master 
was  slain,  fled  away  through  by-paths  known  only  to 
themselves.  Codadad  found  the  castle  filled  with  the 
wealth  the  giant  had  plundered  from  the  cai'avans.  All 
this  treasure  he  divided  among  the  prisoners,  who  found 
horses  and  camels  in  the  stables  sufficient  to  carry  away 
the  merchandise ;  and  having  again  returned  thanks  to 
their  generous  benefactor,  every  man  set  forward  on  his 
return  home. 

When  they  were  gone,  Codadad  asked  the  lady  what 
place  she  designed  to  go  to ;  offering  to  conduct  her  wher- 
ever she  chose.  "  I  am,"  replied  she,  "  of  a  country  far 
remote  hence ;  and  must  own  to  you  that  I  have  left  that 
country  forever.  After  the  obligations  I  owe  you,  sir," 
addressing  herself  to  Codadad,  "  I  will  not  conceal  my 
situation  from  you.  I  am  a  king's  daughter.  A  usurper 
has  possessed  himself  of  my  father's  throne,  after  having 
murdered  him ;  and  I  have  been  forced  to  fly  for  my  life." 

THE    HISTORY    OF    THE   PRINCESS    OP    DERYABAR. 

"  There  is,  in  a  certain  island,  a  great  city  called  Dery- 
abar.  It  was  long  governed  by  a  potent  and  virtuous 
king,  whose  daughter  I  am. 

"Not  many  years  after  my  birth,  as  he  was  hunting,  he 
espied  a  wild  ass  which  he  chased.  Being  an  eager  sports- 
man, he  outrode  his  company,  and  pursued  his  game  alone 
till  night  drew  on.  He  then  alighted,  and  took  shelter  at 
the  edge  of  a  wood.  When  it  became  dark,  he  discovered 
a  fire  at  some  distance  among  the  trees,  which  made  him 
conclude  some  village  was  not  far  off.  But  he  found  the 
light  proceeded  from  a  large  fire,  kindled  in  an  open  hut, 
in  which  sat  a  dreadful  giant.  He  had  a  large  pitcher  of 
wine  before  him,  and  was  roasting  a  bullock  whole,  from 


296  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

which  he  now  and  then  cut  slices  and  ate  them.  In  ar.othe* 
part  of  the  hut  there  sat  a  beautiful  woman,  seemingly 
absorbed  in  grief ;  her  hands  were  bound,  and  at  her  feet 
lay  a  child  of  two  or  tbree  years  old. 

"  My  father  contemplated  this  scene  with  indignation ; 
but  the  giant  was  evidently  too  powerful  to  be  coped  with 
by  him  alone,  and  no  other  means  of  delivering  the  pris- 
oners occurred  to  him  at  that  moment.  While  he  medi 
tated  on  these  matters,  the  giant  having  emptied  the 
pitcher  and  devoured  about  half  of  the  bullock,  turned 
to  the  woman,  and  said,  '-Why  will  you,  beautiful  princess, 
oblige  me  to  treat  you  with  so  much  severity?  It  is  in 
your  power  to  be  happy.  If  you  will  but  receive  and 
return  my  love,  I  will — '  'Hideous  satyr!'  interrupted 
the  lady,  '  I  shall  never  cease  to  abhor  you.  You  will 
always  be  a  monster  in  my  eyes.'  She  added  so  many 
reproaches,  that  the  giant  grew  enraged.  '  This  is  too 
much,'  cried  he,  in  a  furious  tone ;  '  your  hatred,  madam, 
has  produced  mine.  I  will  no  longer  solicit  your  favors, 
but  will  punish  your  insults  by  depriving  you  of  life.' 
Having  said  this,  he  drew  his  scimitar,  and  would  un- 
doubtedly have  put  his  threats  in  execution,  if  my  father 
had  not  let  fly  an  arrow,  which  pierced  the  giant's  breast, 
so  that  he  dropped  down  dead. 

"  My  father  entered  the  hut,  and  unbound  the  lady's 
hands,  who  returned  him  abundant  thanks  for  his  timely 
deliverance.  In  answer  to  his  inquiries,  she  told  him  that 
she  was  the  wife  of  a  captain  of  a  band  of  Saracens,  who 
inhabited  the  sea-coast.  'This  wretch,'  continued  she, 
'  was  one  of  his  pi'incipal  officers.  He  fell  desperately  in 
love  with  me,  which  he  took  care  to  conceal,  till  an  oppor- 
tunity offered  a  few  days  ago  to  seize  me  and  my  child. 
To  avoid  pursuit,  he  penetrated  far  into  the  country;  and 
though  he  ceased  not  continual  solicitations,  yet  he  never 
offered  me  any  violence  till  this  moment,  when  it  pleased 
Heaven  to  deliver  me  from  him  by  your  means.' 

"  My  father  said  everything  in  his  power  to  comfort 
the  lady.  The  next  day,  being  fortunately  joined  by  some 
of  his  retinue,  he  conducted  her  and  her  child  to  the  court 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS  291 

of  Deryabar.  He  immediately  sent  a  messenger  to  the 
country  of  the  Saracens,  to  acquaint  the  captain  that  hia 
wife  and  her  son  were  in  safety.  This  messenger  stayirg 
longer  than  was  expected,  several  others  were  dispatched 
at  different  times  ;  but  none  of  them  ever  returned.  My 
father,  therefore,  determined  to  send  no  more ;  but  to 
bring  up  the  boy  with  care,  and  take  the  lady  under  his 
protection  ;  with  which  she  was  well  satisfied. 

"  That  boy,  that  ungrateful  viper,  was  the  cause  of  all 
my  misfortunes.  As  we  were  near  of  an  age,  and  my 
father  always  showed  great  kindness  to  him,  he  took  it 
into  his  head,  when  he  arrived  at  manhood,  that  his  pro- 
tector intended  to  give  me  to  him  for  a  wife.  For  a  while 
he  waited  in  hope  his  patron  would  meet  his  wishes  ;  dur- 
ing which  time  he  took  pains  to  ingratiate  himself  with 
all  ranks  of  people  ;  and  when  he  found  that  he  had  formed 
to  himself  a  considerable  party,  and  that  my  father  talked 
of  giving  me  to  a  neighboring  prince,  he  threw  off  the 
mask,  and  boldly  demanded  my  hand  in  marriage. 

"  My  father,  who  was  now  grown  old,  restrained  his 
indignation  at  the  young  man's  insolence,  and  contented 
himself  with  giving  him  a  flat  denial.  The  vain  fellow 
forgot  his  obligations  to  his  preserver.  He  considered 
this  refusal  as  a  mortal  affront,  and  giving  way  to  his 
indignation,  he  determined  on  revenge.  He  put  himself 
on  a  sudden  at  the  head  of  his  partisans,  cruelly  mur- 
dered his  venerable  benefactor,  and  caused  himself  to  bo 
proclaimed  king  of  Deryabar.  His  next  care  was  to  have 
seized  me  ;  but  the  grand  vizier,  a  faithful  old  servant, 
finding  it  impossible  to  make  head  against  the  usurper, 
hurried  me  from  the  palace  on  board  a  ship  that  was 
ready  to  sail,  and  delivered  me  out  of  his  hands. 

"  The  grand  vizier  intended  to  have  carried  me  to  the 
court  of  the  prince  who  was  to  have  been  my  husband, 
not  doubting  but  he  would  be  easily  excited  to  expel  the 
traitor,  and  revenge  my  father's  death.  But  Providence 
did  not  grant  success  to  a  resolution  we  thought  so  just. 
A  violent  storm  drove  our  ship  about  for  many  days.  At 
last  she  bilged  on  a  rock.     In  the  horror  of  my  situation 


298  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

1  lost  my  senses,  and  I  can  only  tell  yon  that  when  1 
recovered,  I  found  myself  thrown  on  the  shore,  on  a  part 
of  the  wreck.  Every  one  else  on  board,  I  have  no  doubt, 
perished  in  the  sea. 

"In  this  situation  I  was  found  by  the  king  of  the  coun- 
try, who  chanced  to  be  riding  that  way.  Every  assistance 
was  given  to  me,  and  when  I  had  recovered,  and  related 
my  story,  the  king,  who  was  much  taken  with  me,  frankly 
offered  to  make  me  amends  for  the  throne  I  had  lost,  by 
sharing  his  own  with  me. 

"  The  king  was  young  and  amiable ;  and  though  my 
illness  and  affliction  had  prevented  my  having  received 
any  great  impression  from  him,  gratitude  compelled 
me  to  accept  his  offer.  Preparations  were  making  for 
our  nuptials,  when,  in  the  midst  of  this  joyful  bustle, 
a  neighboring  prince  made  a  descent  by  night  upon  the 
island,  and  threw  everybody  into  confusion.  The  king 
ordered  his  troops  to  be  got  together,  intending  to  put 
himself  at  their  head  ;  but  being  anxious  for  my  preser- 
vation, he  hastened  first  with  me  into  a  boat,  intending 
to  land  me  on  a  small  island  adjoining,  and  to  return 
immediately.  Unfortunately  the  current  and  the  wind 
set  strongly  from  the  shore,  so  that  in  a  short  time  we 
were  driven  out  to  sea,  without  hope  of  recovering  the 
island. 

"  In  this  distress  we  thought  ourselves  fortunate  when 
we  espied  a  ship  coming  toward  us;  but  we  soon  found 
our  mistake.  The  crew  consisted  of  a  dozen  armed  pi- 
rates. They  bound  the  king  in  a  chain,  and  then  being 
attracted  by  my  youth  and  beauty,  each  claimed  me  for 
himself.  The  dispute  ran  so  high  that  they  proceeded 
to  blows.  They  fought  till  only  one  remained  alive,  who, 
having  thrown  overboard  the  dead  bodies  of  his  compan- 
ions, came  up  to  me  and  said,  '  You  are  now  mine;  be  nut 
alarmed.  I  have  no  design  to  take  any  liberties  with 
your  person,  which  I  hei*e  vow  to  hold  sacred.' 

"  I  was  greatly  rejoiced  at  this  unexpected  declaration. 
'Ah,  sir,'  said  I,  '  complete  your  generosity  by  unbinding 
my  husband   and  setting  us  on  shore.'     I  was  about  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8.  299 

have  declared  who  he  was,  but  the  pirate,  rising"  hastily, 
caught  hold  of  the  prince,  and  threw  him,  bound  as  he 
was,  into  the  sea. 

"At  this  terrible  event  I  swooned  away ;'  and  when  1 
recovered  would  have  jumped  overboard  after  the  prince, 
if  the  pirate  had  not  prevented  me.  He  then  explained 
to  me  the  motive  of  that  promise  which  I  had  so  unfor- 
tunately attributed  to  virtue  and  honor.  '  I  intend,'  said 
he,  'to  take  you  to  Cairo,  and  present  you  to  a  great 
emir,  my  patron,  to  whom  I  have  long  promised  a  beau- 
tiful female  slave.  Have  I  not  then  acted  kindly  by  your 
husband?  would  not  his  affliction  have  been  insupportable 
to  have  seen  you  in  the  arms  of  my  friend?' 

'Expostulation  was  in  vain.  I  had  only  to  comfort 
myself  that  his  attachment  to  his  patron  secured  me  from 
personal  insult.  We  landed  soon  after;  the  pirate  pur- 
chased camels  and  slaves,  and  set  off  with  me  for  Cairo. 

"  We  had  been  several  days  on  the  road,  when  yester- 
day, as  we  were  crossing  this  plain,  the  black  giant  whom 
you  have  just  slain,  surprised  us.  Having  destroyed  the 
pirate  and  his  slaves,  he  brought  me  to  his  castle,  and 
invited  me  to  receive  his  embraces;  but  finding  me  more 
dead  than  alive  from  terror,  he  desisted  from  his  entreaties, 
and  gave  me  till  this  evening  to  reconcile  myself  to  his 
proposal.  Fortunately  for  me,  you,  gallant  prince,  have 
extricated  me  from  a  situation  worse  than  death." 

When  the  princess  had  ended  the  recital  of  her  advent- 
ures, the  princes  all  joined  in  condoling  her  misfortunes, 
and  Codadad  offered  to  receive  her  as  his  wife.  The  prin- 
cess had  not  seen  him  with  indifference;  she  accepted  his 
proposal  ;  and  as  the  palace  of  the  giant  abounded  with 
every  necessary,  they  reposed  themselves  there  for  several 
days  ;  after  which,  they  set  out  for  the  court  of  Zaphnah 

When  they  were  within  one  day's  journe}T  of  Harran, 
ind  had  halted  for  the  evening,  Codadad  called  the  prin- 
ces together,  and  said,  "  I  have  too  long  concealed  from 
you  who  I  am.  Behold  j-our  brother  Codadad,  the  son  of 
Pirouze!"  Having  said  this,  he  embraced  them  all,  and 
each  of  them  expressed  much  satisfaction  at  the  discovery; 


300  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

but  very  different  were  the  sentiments  of  these  unworthy 
and  unnatural  brothers.  At  night,  when  Codadad  and 
the  princess  were  retired  to  rest,  they  met  together,  and 
one  of  them  addressing  the  rest,  said,  "You  remember 
how  much  our  father  preferred  and  cherished  this  danger- 
ous rival  of  ours,  even  while  he  thought  him  a  stranger ; 
what  niust  we  expect  now,  when  he  proves  to  be  our 
brother?  what,  when  he  can  boast  of  having  destroyed  a 
giant,  whom  all  of  us  together  were  forced  to  submit  to  ? 
will  not  the  very  relief  he  gave  us  become  an  argument  to 
prefer  him  before  us  all  ?  "  These  considerations  had  oc- 
curred to  every  one  of  them.  They  went  to  the  tent  of 
Codadad,  who  was  fast  asleep,  and  stabbed  him  in  a  thou- 
sand places;  after  which  they  pursued  their  journey  to 
Harran,  where  they  arrived  the  next  day,  and  were  joy- 
fully received  b}r  their  father,  who  had  despaired  of  ever 
seeing  them  again. 

Codadad,  meantime,  lay  in  his  tent  without  any  signs 
of  life.  The  princess  concluded  he  was  dead,  and  rent  the 
air  with  her  cries,  lamenting  the  fate  of  her  husband  and 
deliverer;  and  adjuring  the  vengeance  of  Heaven  on  his 
murderers.  After  much  and  vehement  sorrow,  she  cast 
her  eyes  on  Codadad.  and  perceived  that  he  breathed  a 
little.  It  was  morning,  and  she  saw  a  large  town  at  a 
distance.  As  she  had  no  slave,  she  determined  to  leave 
her  husband,  and  hasten  thither  for  assistance.  She  re- 
turned to  the  tent  with  a  surgeon  ;  but  when  they  arrived 
there  they  could  not  find  Codadad.  They  concluded  he 
had  been'  devoured  by  some  wild  beasts.  The  princess 
was  inconsolable.  The  surgeon  took  pity  on  her,  and  con- 
ducted her  to  his  own  house,  where,  though  he  knew  not 
her  rank,  he  treated  her  with  all  imaginable  respect. 

When  she  was  a  little  composed,  she  related  to  her  host 
all  that  had  befallen  her.  When  she  had  finished  her 
fitovy,  "You  do  not  well,  madam,"  said  the  surgeon,  "to 
give  way  thus  to  an  unavailing  sorrow.  You  owe  more 
to  the  memory  of  your  princely  husband.  It  is  your  duty 
to  revenge  him.  Let  me  attend  you  as. your  squire  to 
tbe  king  of  Harran 's  court;  nor  fear  but  he  will  do  you 
.astice." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  301 

The  princess  of  Deryabar,  roused  by  these  c.nsidera- 
tioris  from  a  torpid  sorrow,  followed  the  advice  of  her  host; 
and  attended  by  him,  arrived  at  the  city  of  Harran.  The 
surgeon  lodged  the  princess  in  a  caravansera,  and  went 
out  to  inquire  diligently  after  news.  He  learnt  that  Pi- 
rouze,  not  hearing  of  her  son,  had  left  Samaria,  and  come  to 
Harran  in  search  of  him.  That  the  king,  before  her  ar- 
rival, had  concluded  that  Codadad  had  fled  to  some  other 
country,  to  escape  his  resentment ;  but  when  he  knew 
from  Pirouze  that  the  gallant  and  accomplished  stranger 
was  his  other  son,  he  had  caused  diligent  inquiry  to  be 
made  after  him  in  all  the  adjoining  kingdoms  ;  and  had 
ordered  public  prayers  to  be  put  up  in  all  the  mosques, 
for  the  safe  and  speedy  return  of  his  son. 

Pirouze  regularly  attended  these  devotions,  and  gave 
alms  at  the  principal  mosque.  The  surgeon,  having  be- 
come acquainted  with  these  particulars,  went  the  next 
day  to  the  mosque;  and  stepping  up  to  one  of  her  slaves, 
he  whispered,  "  Brother,  I  have  a  secret  of  moment  to 
impart  to  the  Princess  Pirouze;  may  not  I  by  your  assist- 
ance be  brought  to  her  apartment?"  The  slave  no  sooner 
learnt  that  this  secret  related  to  Codadad,  than  he  en- 
treated the  surgeon  to  return  with  him  to  the  palace;  and 
as  soon  as  they  arrived  there,  he  introduced  him  to  Pi- 
rouze. He  related  to  her  everything  he  had  been  told  by 
the  princess  of  Deryabar,  and  told  her  where  that  lady 
was  to  be  found.  When  the  surgeon  was  withdrawn,  Pi- 
rouze and  her  attendants  resigned  themselves  to  grief  for 
the  unhappy  fate  of  Codadad.  In  the  midst  of  this  distress 
Zaphnah  entered  her  apartments.  Pirouze,  with  man}' 
lamentations,  repeated  the  surgeon's  account.  It  was  too 
circumstantial  for  the  king  to  doubt  its  truth.  Having 
condoled  with  the  unhappy  mother  on  their  mutual  loss, 
he  withdrew,  not  more  oppressed  with  sorrow  that  shaken 
with  indignation. 

It  was  the  hour  of  public  audience.  Zaphnah  entered 
the  council-chamber  with  so  much  anger  in  his  counte- 
nance, that  the  courtiers  and  people  who  attended  him 
with  petitions,  were  alarmed.     Every  man's  heart  failed 

26 


302  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

him  for  fear.  Having  ascended  the  throne,  the  king  called 
for  the  grand  vizier.  "  Take,"  said  he,  "  this  instant; 
a  thousand  of  my  guards,  and  seize  all  the  princes,  my 
sons;  shut  them  up  in  the  tower  appointed  for  murderers; 
see  that  not  one  of  them  escape."  All  who  were  present 
trembled  at  this  strange  command.  The  vizier  laid  his 
hand  upon  his  head  to  express  his  obedience,  and  with- 
drew to  execute  his  orders.  The  king  then  dismissed  the 
assembly  with  a  declaration  that  he  would  do  no  business 
for  a  month  to  come. 

The  grand  vizier  having  secured  the  princes,  was  di- 
rected by  his  master  to  conduct  the  princess  of  Deryabar 
and  her  squire  to  the  palace ;  and  at  the  same  time  to 
proclaim  who  she  was,  and  in  what  manner  his  sons  had 
incurred  his  displeasure.  The. princess  and  her  attend- 
ants were  led  to  court,  amidst  the  acclamations  of  the 
people,  by  whom  Codadad  was  much  beloved,  while  every 
one  uttered  execrations  against  the  envious  and  ungrate- 
ful brothers  who  had  treated  him  so  cruelly. 

When  the  princess  of  Deryabar  had  been  introduced  to 
Zaphnah  and  Pirouze,  and  had  received  their  embraces, 
she  demanded  of  the  king  justice  on  the  murderers  of  her 
husband.  "Yes,  madam,"  replied  he,  "those  unnatural 
vipers  shall  suffer  as  they  deserve ;  though,  by  that  stroke 
of  justice,  I  must  again  become  childless.  Unfortunate 
Codadad  !"  continued  the  wretched  father,  "we  have  not 
thy  remains,  yet  we  will  not  omit  paying  thee  the  last 
duties ;  at  the  close  of  which,  those  monsters  shall  atone 
for  their  guilt  by  forfeiting  their  lives." 

The  king  gave  orders  for  a  dome  of  white  marble  to  bo 
erected  without  the  city,  and  every  preparation  to  be 
made  for  celebrating  the  obsequies  of  Codadad  in  the 
most  honorable  manner.  A  figure  resembling  the  prince 
was  placed  in  it,  and  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  went 
out  to  assist  at  the  ceremony.  The  king,  his  vizier,  and 
the  principal  persons  of  the  court,  entered  the  dome,  and 
sat  down  on  carpets  made  of  black  satin  with  gold  bor- 
ders. A  great  body  of  guards,  hanging  their  heads,  and 
looking  down,  drew  up  about  the  building,  and  marched 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  303 

round  it  thrice,  observing  a  profound  silence;  at  the  third 
round  they  halted  before  the  door  ;  and  all  of  them,  with 
a  joud  voice,  cried  out,  "  O  prince,  son  of  the  king !  could 
we  by  the  power  of  the  sword  and  human  valor,  any  way 
retrieve  your  misfortune,  we  would  bring  you  back  to  life. 
But  the  King  of  kings  hath  commanded  ;  and  the  angel  of 
death  hath  obeyed."  Having  uttered  these  woi-ds,  they 
drew  off,  and  made  way  for  a  hundred  old  men;  all  of 
them  mounted  on  black  mules,  and  wearing  long  gray 
beards. 

These  were  anchorites,  who  had  lived  all  their  days 
concealed  in  caves.  They  never  appeared  in  the  sight  of 
the  world  but  when  they  were  to  assist  at  the  obsequies 
of  the  kings  of  Harran,  or  of  princes  of  their  family.  Each 
of  these  venerable  persons  carried  a  book  on  his  head, 
which  he  held  with  one  hand.  They  took  three  turns 
round  the  dome,  and  then  stopping  before  the  door,  one  of 
them  said,  "O  prince,  what  can  we  do  for  you?  If  you 
could  be  restored  to  life  by  prayers  or  learning,  we  would 
rub  our  gray  beards  at  thy  feet,  and  recite  prayers ;  but 
the  King  of  the  'universe  hath  taken  you  away  forever." 

The  old  men  withdrew  to  a  distance  from  the  dome,  and 
fifty  beautiful  maids  approached  it;  each  of  them  mounted 
on  a  little  white  horse.  They  wore  no  veils,  and  carried 
gold  baskets,  fall  of  all  sorts  of  precious  stones.  They  also 
rode  three  times  round  the  dome  ;  and  halting  at  the  same 
place  as  the  others  had  done,  the  youngest  of  them  spoke 
in  the  name  of  the  rest,  "  O  prince,  once  so  beautiful !  what 
relief  can  you  expect  from  us  ?  If  we  could  restore  you 
to  life  by  our  charms,  we  would  become  your  slaves ;  but 
you  are  no  longer  sensible  to  beauty,  and  have  no  more 
occasion  for  us." 

"When  the  young  maids  were  withdrawn,  the  king  and 
his  courtiers  arose;  and  having  walked  three  times  round 
the  figure  resembling  Codadad,  the. king  spake  as  follows: 
"  O  ray  dear  son  !  light  of  ray  eyes !  I  have  then  lost  you  for- 
ever!" These  words  were  accompanied  with  many  sighs 
and  tears,  the  courtiers  joining  their  master  in  paying  this 
tribute  to  the  prince.  The  gate  of  the  tomb  was  thee 
shnt,  and  all  the  people  returned  to  the  city. 


304  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Suitable  public  prayers  were  repeated  in  all  the  mosqaoa 
for  eight  days  successively ;  on  the  ninth,  the  king  had 
ordered  the  princes,  his  sons,  to  be  beheaded ;  the  scaffold 
was  ready,  but  the  execution  was  stopped  by  news  arriv- 
ing that  some  neighboring  princes,  who  had  before  made 
war  against  the  king  of  Harran,  were  approaching  the 
capital  at  the  head  of  a  numerous  army.  The  king  mus- 
tered his  troops,  and  marched  out  of  the  city,  prepared  to 
receive  his  enemies. 

On  their  approach,  the  citizens  of  Harran  attacked  them, 
and  a  desperate  battle  ensued.  Victory,  long  doubtful, 
seemed  at  last  to  incline  to  the  invaders,  when  a  large 
body  of  horse  appeared  in  the  plain  in  good  order,  and 
drew  near  the  two  armies.  Each  party  were  alarmed, 
dreading  a  new  enemy;  but  the  matter  was  soon  out  of 
doubt;  the  horsemen  fell  upon  the  flank  of  the  king  of 
Harran's  opponents,  and  gave  them  so  furious  a  charge, 
that  they  decided  the  fortune  of  the  day ;  a  total  rout 
ensued,  in  which  the  greater  part  of  the  invaders  were 
put  to  the  sword. 

The  king  of  Harran  had  much  admired  the  gallantry 
of  these  unexpected  allies,  and  the  skill  and  intrepidity 
of  their  leader  ;  and  the  battle  being  over,  he  hastened 
to  thank  them.  The  hero  proved  to  be  Codadad.  Zaph- 
nah  became  motionless  with  surprise  and  joy.  "When  he 
recovered,  he  flew  to  the  arms  of  his  son,  who  received 
and  returned  his  embrace  with  duty  and  affection. 

Zaphnah  left  the  army  to  the  care  of  the  grand  vizier, 
and  went  immediately  with  his  son  to  the  palace  ;  he  thero 
introduced  to  him  Pirouze  and  the  princess  of  Deryabar; 
the  joy  of  those  illustrious  persons,  so  dear  to  each  other, 
may  be  better  imagined  than  expressed. 

Codadad  told  them  that  a  peasant  mounted  on  a  mule 
happening  to  pass  by  the  tent,  and  seeing  him  alone, 
wounded  and  senseless,  had  conveyed  him  to  his  house; 
where,  by  the  application  of  certain  herbs  chewed,  he 
recovered  him.  "Finding  myself  well,"  continued  he,  "I 
resolved  to  search  everywhere  for  my  beloved  princess ; 
but  as  I  heard  of  the  attack  which  was  meditating  against 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  30f) 

my  royal  father,  I  determined  first  to  assist  him.  1  mado 
myself  known  to  the  villagers,  and  having  diligently 
trained  a  body  of  them  to  arms,  I  had  the  good  fortune 
to  arrive  with  them  at  a  time  they  were  singularly  useful." 

When  he  had  finished  his  narrative,  the  king  said,  "Let 
us  be  thankful  to  Heaven  for  this  happy  and  unexpected 
meeting;  but  it  shall  not  prevent  the  just  punishment  of 
those  traitors  who  meant  to  have  destroyed  their  brother 
and  deliverer;  their  intentions  were  not  less  wicked  be- 
cause they  failed  in  the  execution  of  them,  nor  shall  their 
punishment  be  less  severe." 

"Sir,"  replied  the  generous  Codadad,  "though  they 
little  deserve  that  honor,  yet  they  are  your  own  flesh  and 
blood  ;  they  are  my  brothers ;  they  have  been  sufficiently 
punished  for  their  offence  ;  I  forgive  them,  and  I  entreat 
your  majesty  to  pardon  them  also." 

Pirouze  and  the  princess  of  Deryabar  joined  in  this 
request.  The  king  was  highly  pleased  with  their  gener- 
osity ;  he  caused  the  people  to  be  assembled,  and  ordered 
the  princes  to  be  brought  out,  loaded  with  chains,  and 
expecting  immediate  death.  The  king,  before  them  all, 
caused  Codadad  to  be  proclaimed  his  heir,  and  added,  that 
at  his  intercession,  pardon  was  extended  to  the  unworthy 
princes.  The  people  loudly  applauded  the  noble  behavior 
of  Codadad,  who  himself  released  the  prisoners  from  their 
fetters,  and  embraced  them  with  much  affection. 

On  his  return  to  the  palace  he  amply  rewarded  the  sur- 
geon who  had  so  faithfully  served  the  princess  of  Dery- 
abar. Zaphnah  and  Pirouze  passed  the  rest  of  their  days 
very  happily  with  that  princess  and  their  beloved  Codadad. 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  SLEEPER  AWAKENED  OF  THE  DEAD  ALIVE. 

Abon  Hassan  was  the  son  of  Selim,  a  wealthy  and  penu- 
rious citizen  of  Bagdad,  who,  though  he  was  possessed  of 
a  good  estate,  and.  had  gained  great  wealth  by  many 
years'  successful  traffic,  yet  he  scarcely  allowed  his  family 
necessaries.  "When  the  young  man  grew  up,  he  had  a 
turn  for  gayety  ;  but  the  extreme  avarice  of  his  father 
not  only  denied  him  the  usual  amusements  of  youth,  but 

,      2T,* 


306  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

gave  him  no  respite  from  labor;   making  no  difference 
between  him  and  his  meanest  slave. 

The  death  of  the  merchant  put  an  end  to  this  restraint 
on  Abon  Hassan.  He  found  bimself  heir  to  a  plentiful 
fortune ;  and  he  resolved  to  make  himself  amends  for  the 
severe  discipline  he  had  undergone  ;  but  before  he  began 
his  career,  he  showed  a  good  understanding  and  a  good 
heart ;  he  settled  a  proper  provision  on  his  mother,  and 
dividing  his  wealth  into  equal  parts,  with  the  one  part  he 
increased  his  patrimony;  this  he  determined  never  to 
break  in  upon ;  the  remainder  he  devoted  to  enjoyment. 

To  obtain  this,  he  sought  the  company  of  young  men 
of  the  first  distinction  in  Bagdad.  As  he  was  known  to  be 
wealthy,  he  easily  became  intimate  with  such  of  them  as 
were  noted  for  their  debauchery.  To  these  he  gave  the 
most  costly  entertainments.  The  profusion  of  his  table, 
his  magnificent  balls  and  concerts,  would  have  dissipated 
a  royal  revenue;  and  he  found  the  wealth  he  had  set  apart 
for  a  life  of  prodigality,  was  dispersed  before  a  single  year 
had  passed  away. 

Abon  Hassan  was  astonished  at  the  report  of  his  stew- 
ard, that  so  large  a  part  of  his  fortune  was  exhausted.  He 
renewed  immediately  his  resolution  to  keep  his  patrimony 
unimpaired,  nor  even  to  break  in  upon  the  improvement 
he  had  made  to  it.  He  gave  no  more  magnificent  enter- 
tainments ;  he  sold  off  his  useless  slaves  and  splendid 
furniture,  and  prepared  to  regulate  his  expenses  by  his 
remaining  income.  But  while  this  was  doing,  he  felt  the 
force  of  youthful  attachment  to  many  of  his  companions, 
and  was  amazed  and  chagrined  to  find  that  they  all 
avoided  him.  The  news  of  his  ruin  had  spread  abroad;  his 
prudent  reserve  no  one  knew  of.  All  his  gay  friends,  there- 
fore, treated  him  with  contempt;  and  when,  to  try  them 
still  further,  he  attempted  to  borrow  a  supply  of  them, 
many  insulted  him,  all  refused  him. 

Irritated  with  this  ungenerous  behavior,  he  renounced 
them  in  his  turn.  He  retired  to  the  house  of  his  father. 
where  his  mother  still  dwelt,  and  began  a  new  course  of 
life.     As  he  had  enough  left  to  entertain  a  guest  hand 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  301 

bomety,  and  was  fond  of  society,  he  every  day  jrovided 
what  he  thought  necessary  for  that  purpose ;  and  in  the 
evening  he  went  and  sat  on  Bagdad  bridge,  where,  as  soon 
as  he  saw  any  stranger  arrive,  whose  appearance  pleased 
him,  he  accosted  him  respectfully,  and  invited  him  to  sup 
and  lodge  with  him  for  that  night. 

Abon  Hassan,  on  these  occasions,  failed  not  to  acquaint 
his  guest  with  an  oath  he  had  taken  ;  which  was,  never  to 
give  an  entertainment  to  an  inhabitant  of  Bagdad  ;  never 
to  invite  any  man  a  second  time,  or  keep  up  any  kind  of 
acquaintance  with  any  of  his  guests  after  their  parting. 
This  premised,  he  used  to  conduct  the  stranger  home; 
regale  him  with  a  good  supper,  and  lodge  him  comfortably. 
In  the  morning  he  always  said  to  him,  "  God  preserve  you 
from  all  sorrow !  when  I  invited  you  hither  yesterday,  I 
acquainted  you  with  my  oath  ;  I  hope,  therefore,  you  will 
not  take  it  ill,  if  I  bid  you  farewell;  and  may  God  conduct 
j^ou." 

On  these  terms  he  chanced  one  evening  to  engage  a 
stranger  of  i*espectable  appearance,  whom  he  supposed  to 
be  a  merchant  of  Moussol ;  but  who  in  reality  was  the 
caliph,  Haroun  Alraschid ;  who,  in  that  disguise,  was 
taking  one  of  his  customary  survej^s  of  the  city.  The  in- 
vitation was  so  singular,  that  it  excited  the  caliph's  curi- 
osity, and  he  readily  accepted  it.  Abon  Hassan  conducted 
him  home,  placed  him  at  the  upper  end  of  his  table,  and 
sat  down  over  against  him.  A  handsome  supper  and 
dessert  were  served  up,  and  they  ate  of  what  they  liked 
best,  without  speaking  or  drinking,  according  to  the  cus- 
tom of  the  country. 

When  they  had  done  eating,  Abon  Hassan  filled  out  a 
glass  of  wine,  and  said  to  his  guest,  laughing,  "You  know, 
sir,  the  cock  never  drinks  before  he  calls  to  his  hens  to 
come  and  drink  with  him,  so  I  invite  you  to  follow  my 
example.  I  cannot  reckon  him  a  wise  man  who  does  not 
love  a  cheerful  glass."  "  I  am  quite  of  your  opinion,"  re- 
plied the  caliph,  taking  a  bumper,  "and  am  sure  you  are 
an  honest  fellow ;  fill  away ;  you  shall  find  I  am  ready  to 
partake  wilh  you." 


308  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

They  grew  merry  over  their  cups.  Abcm  Hassan  being 
of  a  lively  disposition,  entertained  his  guest  with  a  thou- 
sand brilliant  sallies.  At  his  request  he  explained  the 
cause  of  the  vow  he  had  made  to  receive  only  strangers, 
and  no  man  a  second  time;  and  related,  with  much  humor, 
the  story  of  his  own  extravagance,  and  the  ill  behavior 
of  his  former  companions. 

The  caliph  was  delighted  with  the  wit  of.  his  host,  and 
respected  his  understanding.  "When  it  grew  time  to  retire, 
he  said  to  him  :  "  I  regret  exceedingly  the  oath  you  have 
taken,  as  it  deprives  me  of  all  hopes  of  being  better  known 
to  you ;  but  yet  I  wish  to  show  you  how  sensible  I  am  of 
your  hospitality.  It  is  more  in  my  power  to  serve  you, 
than  you  are  aware  of.  Speak  freely,  and  tell  me  what 
you  would  wish  for,  if  you  were  sure  of  obtaining  your 
desires." 

Abon  Hassan,  who  was  a  little  elevated  with  the  liquor 
ce  had  drunk,  replied  briskly,  "  I  thank  you  for  your  of- 
fers of  service,  but,  in  truth,  have  no  desires  that  you  can 
gratify.  My  fortune  is  sufficient;  1  have  no  ambition, 
unless,  indeed,  you  could  make  me  caliph  for  four-and 
twenty  hours."  "And  why,"  interrupted  Haroun,  eagerly, 
"  should  you  desire  that  honor  for  so  short  a  time  ?"  "  It 
would  be  long  enough,"  replied  Abon  Hassan,  "  to  answer 
all  my  wishes.  The  town  of  Bagdad  is  divided  into  va- 
rious disti^icts,  in  each  of  which  there  is  a  mosque,  and  an 
imam  belonging  to  it  to  read  prayers.  The  imam  of  the 
division  I  live  in,  is  an  old  man  of  austere  countenance, 
and  the  greatest  hypocrite  in  the  world.  This  man  and 
four  old  fellows  of  the  neighborhood,  who  are  people  of 
the  same  disposition,  meet  every  day  at  the  imam's  house  ; 
where  they  vent  their  malice  against  me  and  the  whole 
district,  to  the  great  disturbance  of  the  neighbors,  and  the 
promotion  of  perpetual  dissensions.  Instead  of  minding 
their  Alkoran,  and  being  at  peace  with  all  men,  they 
threaten  some,  abuse  others,  and  wish  to  domineer  over 
everybody.  Were  I  caliph  for  one  day  only,  I  would  re- 
move this  nuisance  ;  for  I  would  order  each  cf  the  old  men 
a  hundred  bastinadoes,  and  the  good  imam  four  times  as 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  309 

many,  that^they  might  learn  no  more  to  abuse  and  disturb 
their  neighbors." 

The  caliph  laughed  heartily  at  his  host's  narrative,  and 
immediately  conceived  the  idea  of  a  whimsical  adventure. 
Abon  Hassan  renewing  the  conversation,  observed  that  it 
grew  late.  "Let  us  finish  the  bottle,"  said  he,  "and  I 
will  bid  }^ou  farewell  to-night ;  only  let  me  request  of  you, 
if  you  rise  before  me,  that  you  will  shut  the  door  when 
you  go  out  in  the  morning."  This  the  caliph  promised; 
and  taking  hold  of  the  bottle  said,  "You  have  been  so 
obliging  as  to  fill  for  me  the  whole  night,  permit  me  to 
pour  out  the  last  glass,  and  drink  to  your  repose."  *He 
then  dexterously  conveyed  a  little  powder  into  Abon  Has- 
san's glass,  and  handed  it  to  him  ;  who,  being  much  pleased 
with  the  politeness  of  his  guest,  drank  it,  and  had  scarce 
time  to  set  the  glass  on  the  table,  before  he  fell  into  a 
profound  sleep. 

The  caliph  ordered  the  slave  who  attended  him,  to  take 
Abon  Hassan  on  his  back,  and  convey  him  to  the  palace, 
where  he  caused  him  to  be  undressed,  and  laid  in  the 
royal  bed.  He  directed  G-iafar  to  attend  the  sleeper  in 
the  morning,  and  salute  him  as  commander  of  the  faithful; 
and  to  take  care  that  all  the  emirs  and  courtiers,  as  well 
as  the  attendants,  should  address  him  with  the  usual  cere- 
monies  which  were  observed  to  himself. 

Early  in  the  morning  the  caliph  took  possession  of  a 
little  closet,  whence  he  could  see  all  that  passed  ;  impa- 
tient* to  enjoy  the  surprise  of  Abon  Hassan,  and  see  how 
he  would  support  his  imaginary  dignity. 

At  daybreak  all  the  officers  and  ladies,  whose  duty  it 
was  to  attend  the  rising  of  the  caliph,  took  their  places 
with  great  silence.  One  of  them  putting  a  sponge  steeped 
in  vinegar  to  Abon  Hassan's  nose,  he  sneezed  heartily, 
which  awakened  him.  On  opening  his  eyes,  he  found  that 
he  was  in  a  magnificent  room,  surrounded  by  a  great 
many  young  and  handsome  ladies,  and  black  eunuchs 
richly  clothed,  all  standing  with  great  modesty  and  re- 
spect. Casting  his  eyes  on  the  quilt  of  the  bed,  he  per- 
ceived It  was  cloth  of  gold  richly  ornamented  with  pearls 


310  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and  diamonds ;  and  that  there  was  laid  by  the  bed  a  very 
rich  habit  and  a  caliph's  turban. 

At  the  sight  of  all  these  splendid  objects,  Abon  Hassan 
was  in  the  utmost  confusion  and  amazement.  "  So,"  said 
he  to  himself,  "I  am  caliph!  but,"  added  he,  after  a  mo 
ment's  pause,  "'tis  only  a  dream;  the  effect  of  the  wish  1 
made  last  night."  Saying  this,  he  turned  himself  about 
to  sleep  again,  when  one  of  the  eunuchs  approached  tbe 
bed,  and  said  very  respectfully,  "  Commander  of  the  faith- 
ful, 't  is  time  for  your  majesty  to  rise  to  prayers ;  the  morn- 
ing begins  to  advance." 

The  astonishment  of  Abon  Hassan  was  inexpressible. 
"Is  it  possible  I  am  awake?"  said  he  to  himself.  "  Oh, 
certainly,  I  am  asleep,"  continued  he.  shutting  his  eyes 
again,  "  there  is  no  reason  to  doubt  it." 

The  eunuch  finding  Abon  Hassan  did  not  rise,  said 
again,  "Your  majesty  will,  I  hope,  permit  me  to  tell  you, 
that  it  is  time  to  attend  morning  prayer,  which  you  nevei 
neglect ;  the  sun  is  just  rising."  "  I  am  mistaken,"  thoughl 
Abon  Hassan,  "  I  am  awake.  Those  that  sleep  do  not 
hear  thus  distinctly."  Then  opening  his  eyes,  and  sitting 
up  in  his  bed,  he  seemed  overjoyed  at  his  promotion,  to 
the  great  entertainment  of  the  caliph,  who  guessed  very 
exactly  what  his  thoughts  were. 

"When  Abon  Hassan  began  to  arise,  all  the  ladies  of  the 
palace  prostrated  themselves  before  him,  with  their  faces 
to  the  ground ;  they  then  saluted  him  with  a  delightful 
serenade,  with  which  he  was  so  ravished,  that  he  wa§  in 
perfect  ecstasy.  But  recovering  his  first  idea,  he  again 
doubted  if  it  was  not  a  dream  ;  he  clapped  his  hands  before 
his  eyes,  lowered  his  head,  and  again  said  to  himself, 
"  What  can  all  this  mean  ?  Where  am  I  ?  Who  are  th:so 
ladies  and  attendants?  How  shall  I  possibly  distinguish 
that  I  am  awake,  and  in  my  right  senses  ?" 

While  these  thoughts  were  passing  in  his  mind,  Mesrour, 
the  chief  of  the  eunuchs,  came  in,  and  having  paid  the 
proper  compliments,  said,  "  Commander  of  the  faithful, 
the  time  of  prayer  is  over;  all  your  generals,  governors, 
and    officers  of  state,  wait   your   royal    presence  in  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  311 

council-hall.  Will  3Tour  majesty  be  pleased  to  ascend 
your  throne  as  usual?" 

Abon  Hassan  was  convinced  now  that  he  was  awake, 
but  he  was  also  still  more  embarrassed.  After  a  pause, 
he  looked  earnestly  at  Mesrour,  and  said,  "  Who  is  it  that 
you  speak  to,  and  call  commander  of  the  faithful?  I  don't 
know  you,  and  you  mistake  me  for  somebody  else." 

Mesrour  affected  an  air  of  astonishment,  and  replied 
"  My  worthy  lord  and  master,  you  only  speak  thus  to  jeer 
me.  Is  not  your  majesty  commander  of  the  faithful, 
monarch  of  the  world,  and  the  prophet's  vicar  on  earth  ? 
Mesrour,  your  faithful  slave,  who  has  had  the  honor  and 
happiness  to  serve  you  so  many  years,  cannot  forget  or 
mistake  you.  Some  trouble,  some  dream,  must  have  dis- 
turbed your  majesty's  imagination." 

Abon  Hassan  burst  out  a-laughing  at  these  words  of 
Mesrour.  When  he  had  recovered  himself,  seeing  a  little 
black  eunuch,  he  beckoned  him,  and  said,  "Hark  ye,  child: 
tell  me  who  I  am."  "  Sir,"  answered  the  little  boy,  mod- 
estly, "your  majesty  is  commander  of  the  true  believers, 
and  the  prophet's  vicar  on  earth."  "  You  are  a  liar,  sooty- 
face,"  said  Abon  Hassan.  He  then  called  the  lad}T  who 
stood  nearest  him,  saying,  "  Come  hither,  fair  one,  and 
bite  the  end  of  my  finger,  that  I  may  know  whether  I  am 
awake  or  not." 

The  lady,  who  knew  the  caliph  saw  all  that  passed,  was 
ovei'joyed  at  being  thus  called  upon  to  contribute  to  his 
amusement;  going,  therefore,  with  a  grave  face  to  Abon 
Hassan,  she  put  his  finger  into  her  mouth,  and  clenched 
it  so  hard  between  her  teeth  that  he  roared  aloud,  and 
with  difficulty  pulled  it  away  from  her.  When  the  pain 
was  a  little  abated,  he  said,  "You  have  convinced  me  that 
I  am  not  asleep;  but  how  is  it  possible  that  I  can  have 
become  caliph  in  one  night?  I  adjure  you,  therefore,  to 
tell  me  the  truth."  "  It  is  so  true,"  replied  the  lady,  "that 
we,  your  slaves,  are  amazed  to  hear  you  doubt  it."  "Ah, 
you  are  a  deceiver,"  replied  Abon  Hassan ;  "  I  know  very 
well  who  I  am." 

Mesrour  assisted  his  new  master  U  rise ;  and  as  soon  as 


312  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

be  set  his  feet  on  the  floor,  the  whole  company  of  ladies 
and  officers  cried  out  together,  u  God  preserve  your  maj- 
esty, and  give  you  a  good  day!"  Mesrour  then  arrayed 
him  in  the  royal  robes,  and  conducted  him  through  rows 
of  prostrate  courtiers  to  the  council-chamber,  where  he 
mounted  the  throne  of  Persia,  which  he  filled  with  all  the 
gravity  imaginable. 

The  grand  vizier  Griafar,  and  the  judge  of  the  police, 
(Jboth  of  whom  he  knew  by  having  often  seen  them  in 
their  offices,)  first  bowed  themselves  down  before  him,  and. 
paid  him  the  salutation  of  the  morning.  After  which  all 
the  emirs,  as  they  were  admitted  to  their  seats,  went 
to  the  foot  of  the  throne,  and  having  laid  their  heads  on 
the  carpet,  they  saluted  him  on  their  knees,  as  commander 
of  the  faithful,  and  the  prophet's  vicar  on  earth. 

Although  Abon  Hassan  had  before  been  elevated  with 
his  advancement,  his  recollection  forbade  him  to  believe 
it.  But  when  he  found  himself  thus  received  by  the  grand 
vizier,  and  all  the  great  men  about  the  court,  he  could  no 
longer  doubt  but  he  was  caliph,  though  he  could  noways 
account  for  his  having  become  so.  Dismissing,  therefore, 
for  the  present,  all  thought  upon  the  subject,  he  prepared 
to  enjoy  his  good  fortune,  and  exercise  his  sovereignty. 
He  beckoned  the  judge  of  the  police  to  him,  and  directed 
him  to  go  to  such  a  division  of  the  city,  to  seize  the  imam 
of  the  mosque  and  four  old  men,  whom  he  described  ;  to 
give  each  of  the  latter  a  hundred  bastinadoes,  and  the 
imam  four  hundred.  "  This  done,"  continued  he,  "mount 
them  on  five  camels,  with  their  faces  to  the  tails,  lead 
them  through  the  whole  city,  and  let  a  crier  proclaim  be- 
fore them,  '  This  is  the  punishment  of  busy-bodies  and 
mischief-makers!'  You  may  then  dismiss  them,  with 
orders  nevor  to  return  to  that  district  on  pain  of  death." 

The  judge  of  the  police  withdrew;  and  the  grand  vizier 
approached  the  throne,  and  made  his  report  of  affairs. 
Abon  Hassan  heard  him  with  dignity  and  attention.  He 
issued  out  orders  without  embarrassment,  and  gave  judg- 
ment in  several  cases  with  great  ability.  The  caliph  saw 
*nl  admired  this  part  of  his  conduct,  which  raised  him 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  313 

highly  in  his  esteem.  The  judge  of  the  police  returning, 
presented  his  new  sovereign  an  instrument,  signett  by  the 
principal  inhabitants  of  the  division,  attesting  the  pun- 
ishment having  been  inflicted  on  the  five  delinquents. 
Abon  Hassan  read  over  the  names  of  the  witnesses  (who 
were  all  people  that  he  knew  very  well)  with  great  satis- 
faction. "  These  old  hypocrites,"  said  he  to  himself,  "who 
were  ever  censuring  my  actions,  and  finding  fault  with 
my  entertaining  honest  people,  have  at  last  received  the 
punishment  they  deserved." 

When  the  time  of  audience  was  neai^ly  over,  the  new 
caliph  directed  the  vizier  to  take  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold 
and  carry  them  to  the  mother  of  Abon  Hassan,  who  was 
generally  called  the  debauchee,  and  lived  in  the  same  dis- 
trict where  the  judge  of  the  police  had  been  sent  to.  Gia- 
far  obeyed,  and,  on  his  return,  Abon  Hassan  arose,  and 
dismissing  the  audience,  descended  the  throne,  and  was 
conducted  by  Mesrour  into  an  adjoining  apartment. 

He  was  much  delighted  on  entering  the  splendid  hall  to 
which  the  chief  of  the  eunuchs  led  him.  The  paintings 
were  exquisite  ;  and  there  appeared  everywhere  the  great- 
est profusion  of  wealth ;  seven  bands  of  music,  placed  in 
different  galleries,  struck  up  a  grand  concert  at  his  en- 
trance. In  the  middle  of  the  room  there  was  a  table  set 
out  with  golden  dishes  and  plates  containing  all  manner 
of  rarities.  Seven  young  and  beautiful  ladies,  richly 
dressed,  stood  around  this  table,  each  ready  to  fan  the 
supposed  caliph  while  at  dinner. 

Abon  Hassan  surveyed  all  these  things  with  the  utmost 
pleasure;  his  countenance  strongly  expressed  his  joy;  yet 
there  was  a  mixture  of  wonder  and  doubt  which  occasion- 
ally appeared  in  his  behavior.  "  If  this  is  a  dream,"  said 
he  to  himself,  "  it  is  a  long  one.  But  surely,"  continued 
he,  "  it  is  not  a  dream ;  I  can  see,  hear,  feel,  walk,  and 
argue  reasonably.  I  am  certainly  the  commander  of  the 
Faithful;  who  else  could  live  in  this  splendor?  Besides, 
the  respect  I  receive,  and  the  obedience  paid  to  my  com- 
mands, are  sufficient  proofs."  He  then  sat  down  to  table  ; 
and  the  seven  ladies  standing  about  him  began  to  fan  bin? 
•27 


314  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Ho  looked  at  them  Avith  admiration,  and  smilingly  ujU 
them,  thftt  one  fan  was  enough  to  cool  him,  and  he  would 
have  tho  other  six  ladies  sit  down  to  table  with  him,  that 
wherevei  he  turned  his  eyes,  he  might  behold  such  lovely 
objects. 

The  ladies  obeyed;  but  Abon  Hassan  perceiving  that 
out  of  respect  they  did  not  eat,  helped  them  himself,  and 
urged  them  in  the  most  obliging  terms.  When  they  had 
dined,  he  asked  their  names,  which  they  told  him  were 
White  Neck,  Coral  Lips,  Fair  Face,  Sunshine,  Heart's  De- 
light, Sweet  Looks,  and  Sugar  Cane.  To  every  lady  he 
returned  handsome  compliments  wittily  adapted  to  her 
name. 

After  dinner,  the  eunuchs  brought  perfumed  water  in  a 
golden  bowl ;  and  when  Abon  Hassan  had  washed,  Mesrour, 
who  never  left  him,  conducted  him  to  another  hall,  where 
he  was  received  by  seven  ladies  more  beautiful  than  the 
former.  Seven  other  bands  began  a  new  concert,  while 
the  imaginary  caliph  took  part  of  a  rich  dessert  of  sweet- 
meats and  the  choicest  fruits.  This  over,  he  was  led  to 
a  third  hall  more  magnificent  than  the  other  two;  it 
was  lighted  up  with  a  profusion  of  wax-lights  in  golden 
branches;  and  he  was  received  here  by  seven  other  la- 
dies, of  still  superior  beauty,  who  conducted  him  to  a 
table  set  out  with  large  silver  flagons  full  of  the  choicest 
wines,  and  crystal  glasses  placed  by  them. 

Till  this  time,  Abon  Hassan  had  drunk  nothing  but 
water,  agreeable  to  the  custom  of  Bagdad,  where  from 
the  highest  to  the  lowest  they  never  drink  anything 
strong-  till  evening:;  it  being;  accounted  scandalous  in  the 
highest  degree  for  any  one  to  be  drunk  in  the  daytime. 
When  he  placed  himself  at  the  table,  he  desired  the  seven 
ladies  to  sit  down  with  him ;  and  having  asked  their 
names,  which  were  Cluster  of  Peai'ls,  Morning  Star,  Chain 
of  Hearts,  Daylight,  Bright  Eyes,  Fine  Shape,  and  Silver 
Tongue,  he  called  upon  each  in  turn  to  bring  him  a  glass 
of  wine,  and  as  each  lady  presented  it,  he  said  a  variety 
wf  witty  and  gallant  things  to  her. 

As  ^.he  wine  began  to  elevate  the  supposed  raiph,  bo 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  315 

became  amorous;  which  Cluster  of  Pearls  perceiving,  she 
went  to  the  bcaufet,  and  putting  a  little  of  the  sleepy 
powder  into  a  goblet,  she  filled  it  with  wine;  she  then 
presented  it  in  a  most  bewitching  manner  to  Abon  Has- 
san, requesting  him  to  drink  it  when  she  had  sung  a  song 
which  she  had  made  that  day.  Hassan  consented;  and 
the  lady  sang  with  so  much  grace  and  spirit,  that  he 
resolved  to  prefer  her  to  her  companions.  He  received 
the  goblet  froui  her  hand,  and  drank ;  but  before  he  could 
take  it  from  his  mouth,  he  fell  asleep  in  the  arms  of  the 
attendants.  They  then  put  his  own  clothes  on  him;  and 
the  slave  who  brought  him  thither,  carried  him  back,  and 
laid  him  on  his  own  sofa. 

It  was  late  the  next  morning  before  the  powder  ceased 
to  operate.  But  at  length  the  sleeper  awakened,  and 
looking  round  the  room,  was  surprised  to  find  himself  in 
so  different  a  situation.  He  called  aloud  for  Cluster  of 
Pearls,  Morning  Star,  Coral  Lips,  and  the  other  ladies,  as 
he  could  recollect  them.  His  mother,  hearing  his  voice, 
came  in  and  said,  "Son,  what  would  you  have;  who  are 
those  you  are  calling  for?"  Abon  Hassan,  raising  him- 
self up,  looked  haughtily  at  his  mother,  and  said,  "  Good 
woman  !  who  is  it  you  call  your  son  ?"  "  You,  to  be  sure," 
replied  his  mother  ;  "  are  you  not  Abon  Hassan,  my  son  ? 
Have  you  slept  till  you  have  forgot  me  and  yourself  too  ?  " 
"  I,  your  son  !  "  answered  Hassan ;  "  you  are  mad  !  I  am 
not  Abon  Hassan,  but  the  commander  of  the  Faithful." 

His  mother  was  alarmed  at  these  words.  "  Silence,  my 
dear  son,  I  beseech  you,"  said  she  ;  "  do  you  not  know 
that  'walls  have  ears'?  what  do  you  think  would  be  the 
consequence,  if  you  were  heard  to  utter  such  rash  words 
to  anybody  else?  You  are  surely  distracted."  While  his 
mother  was  thus  remonstrating  with  him,  Abon  Hassan 
listened  to  her  attentively.  He  held  down  his  head,  and 
put  his  hands  before  his  eyes  like  one  in  contemplation. 
At  last,  as  if  just  awakened,  he  said  to  his  mother,  "  Me- 
thinks  I  am  Abon  Hassan,  and  you  are  my  mother  " 
Then  looking  round  the  room,  he  added,  "  I  qeriainly  am 
Abon  Hassan,  there  is  no  doubt  of  it.  I  cannot  conceive 
how  this  fancy  came  into  my  head." 


316  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

"You  have  had  a  good  dream,"  replied  his  mother 
laughing  ;  "  but  I  have  some  real  good  news  for  you.  The 
grand  vizier,  Giafar,  came  to  me  yesterday,  and  putting  a 
purse  of  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold  into  my  hand,  bid  me 
pray  for  the  commander  of  the  Faithful,  who  made  me 
that  present." 

"  Will  you  dare,' after  this,  old  lady,"  replied  Hassan,  in 
a  rage,  "to  tell  me  I  am  your  son!  1  sent  you  those 
thousand  pieces  of  gold  by  my  grand  vizier,  Giafar,  who 
obeyed  me  as  commander  of  the  Faithful." 

His  mother  was  astonished  at  his  conversation,  but 
fearing  to  irritate  him  by  opposition,  she  answered  him 
slightly;  and  immediately,  with  intent  to  divert  his  ideas 
from  a  subject  which  seemed  to  bewilder  him,  she  began 
to  tell  him  what  had  befallen  the  imam  and  the  four 
sheiks  the  preceding  day. 

Hassan  listened  with  much  attention,  and  when  she  had 
finished  her  narrative,  "  God  be  praised,"  said  he,  "for  all 
things!  for  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  I  am  the  commander 
of  the  Faithful,  and  the  prophet's  vicar  on  earth.  Know, 
old  woman."  continued  he,  "  that  it  was  by  my  order  those 
five  hypocrites  were  punished.  I  was  not  asleep  when  I 
gave  those  directions ;  and  am  glad  to  hear  from  you  that 
the  judge  of  the  police  fulfilled  his  duty." 

The  old  lady  was  in  an  agony  of  despair  when  she 
heard  him  talk  in  so  absurd  a  manner.  "  Heaven  pre- 
serve you  from  the  power  of  Satan,  my  dear  son  ! "  replied 
she  ;  "  some  evil  genius  surely  possesses  you.  Don't  you 
see  you  are  in  your  own  room  ?  Eecollect  yourself  seri- 
ously, and  drive  away  these  fancies  from  your  imagina- 
tion." At  these  words  Hassan  became  more  transported 
with  fury  ;  he  leaped  from  the  sofa,  seized  a  cane,  and 
running  to  his  mother,  "  Cursed  sorceress,"  said  he,  "  tell 
me  instantly  by  wnat  means  you  have  conveyed  me  from 
my  palace  to  this  room."  His  mother,  looking  tenderly 
at  him,  replied,  "You  are  not,  surely,  so  abandoned  by 
God,  my  son,  as  to  strike  ypur  mother ! "  Abon  Hassan, 
urged  to  frenzy,  became  unnatural.  He  caned  her  se- 
verely ;  asking  her,  between  every  stroke,  if  she  would 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS.  317 

yet  own  he  was  commander  of  the  Faithfu  ;  to  wnich  she 
continued  to  reply,  "  he  was  her  beloved  son." 

At  length,  as  he  ceased  not  to  beat  her,  the  old  lady 
was  obliged  to  call  out  so  loudly  for  help,  that  several  of 
the  neighbors  heard  her,  and  ran  to  her  assistance.  The 
first  who  entered  the  room,  taking  the  cane  from  him, 
said,  "What  are  you  doing,  Abon  Hassan  ?  Have  you  no 
fear  of  God  ?  Dare  you  strike  your  affectionate  parent  ?" 
Hassan  looked  earnestly  on -him  without  returning  any 
answer;  and  then,  staring  on  all  that  followed  him,  said, 
"  Who  is  that  Abon  Hassan  ?  do  you  mean  to  call  me  by 
that  name?"  "  Whom  should  we  call  so  but  you  ?"  replied 
his  neighbor;  "it  is  no  wonder  you  forget  yourself,  when 
you  insult  your  mother."  "Begone!  you  are  all  imperti- 
nent!" answered  Hassan.  "I  neither  know  her  nor  you. 
I  will  not  know  you;  I  am  not  Abon  Hassan;  but  you 
shall  find  to  your  cost  that  I  am  commander  of  the 
Faithful." 

At  this  discourse,  his  neighbors  concluded  he  was  mad ; 
and  while  some  laughed  at  him.  others  went  for  the  keeper 
of  the  hospital  for  lunatics.  Hassan  became  outrageous 
at  the  sight  of  him.  and  called  aloud  for  Giafar  and  Mes- 
rour  to  come  to  his  assistance ;  but  the  keeper  ordered 
him  to  be  undressed,  and  beat  him  with  a  rope  till  he  lay 
quiet;  he  then  caused  hand-cuffs  and  chains  to  be  fastened 
on  him,  and  took  him  to  the  hospital. 

For  three  weeks  the  unfortunate  Hassan  received  daily 
correction  from  the  hand  of  his  severe  keeper,  who  never 
failed  to  remind  him  that  he  was  not  commander  of  the 
Faithful.  His  mother  came  every  daj^  to  see  him  ;  but 
whenever  she  appeared  in  his  sight,  he  reproached  and 
execrated  her  as  the  cause- of  all  his  sufferings.  At  length, 
the  lively  ideas  of  what  had  passed  during  the  time  he 
was  addressed  as  caliph,  began  to  fade  away;  and  the 
miserable  situation  he  was  in  made  him  recollect  himself. 
Though  the  obedience  which  had  been  paid  to  his  orders, 
would  not  let  him  believe  he  had  been  dreaming,  jTet  he 
considered  that,  if  he  was  really  caliph,  his  officers  and 
attendants  would  never  have  abandoned  him  to  so  mucV 
27* 


318  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ignominy  and  wretchedness.  While  his  mind  was  thua 
employed,  his  mother  came  to  see  him,  and  let  tall  a  tor- 
rent of  tears  at  beholding  him  manacled,  emaciated,  and 
dejected.  On  her  approach,  he  no  longer  appeared  furious. 
On  the  contrary,  he  saluted  her  as  his  mother,  disavowed 
his  supposed  dignity,  and  with  much  sorrow  entreated  her 
forgiveness  of  the  outrage  he  had  committed  against  her 

His  mother  was  overjoyed  to  find  so  happy  a  change  in 
him.  She  talked  with  him  about  the  disorder  he  had 
been  in  ;  and  added,  "  The  last  stranger  you  brought  home 
with  you,  went  away  in  the  morning  without  shutting  the 
door.  I  am  persuaded  this  gave  some  demon  an  opportu- 
nity to  enter,  and  put  you  into  that  horrid  delusion." 
•'You  are  certainly  in  the  right,  my  dear  mother,"  replied 
Abon  Hassan;  "it  was  that  very  night  I  had  the  fatal 
dream  which  turned  my  brain,  and  caused  those  excesses 
which  cover  me  with  shame  and  confusion  when  I  think 
of  them.  I  charged  the  merchant  to  shut  the  door  after 
him,  which  now  I  find  he  did  not  do  ;  as  they  of  Moussol 
are  not  so  well  convinced  that  the  devil  is  the  cause  of 
troublesome  dreams  as  we  are  at  Bagdad.  But  since  I 
am  so  much  better,  get  me,  I  entreat  you,  out  of  this 
cursed  place."  His  mother  hastened  with  great  joy  to 
the  keeper,  and  declared  the  change  she  had  found  in  her 
son ;  and  he,  having  examined  his  patient,  congratulated 
him  on  his  recovery,  and  gave  him  his  liberty. 

When  Abon  Hassan  came  home,  he  stayed  within  doors 
for  some  days  to  rest  and  refresh  himself  after  the  severe 
discipline  he  had  undergone.  But  when  he  had  recovered 
his  strength,  he  soon  became  weary  of  spending  his  even- 
ings alone.  He  determined,  therefore,  to  begin  his  former 
way  of  living,  which  was  to  provide  a  supper,  and  seek  a 
friend  to  share  it  with  him. 

The  day  on  which  he  renewed  this  custom  was  the  first 
of  the  month,  when  the  caliph  always  walked  in  disguise 
about  the  city.  Towaixl  evening,  Hassan  went  to  the 
bridge,  but  had  scarce  sat  down  when  he  perceived  the 
caliph  disgiised  as  before,  and  followed  by  the  same  slave. 
As  he  was  fully  persuaded   that  all  his  sufferings   arose 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS,.  310 

from  the  negligence  of  this  Moussol  merchant,  he  saw  hin? 
with  great  indignation  ;  and  to  avoid  speaking  to  him,  ht 
got  up  and  looked  over  the  parapet  into  the  river. 

The  caliph  saw  and  recollected  his  former  host,  and  be 
came  curious  to  know  the  effect  of  his  frolic.  He  perceivee 
that  Hassan  had  risen  in  anger,  and  wished  to  avoid  him. 
He  went,  therefore,  close  up  to  him,  and  said,  "  Oh ! 
brother  Hassan,  is  it  you  ?  give  me  leave  to  embrace  you." 
"  Not  I,  indeed,"  replied  Hassan,  roughly,  and  without 
turning  his  head  ;  "  I  know  nothing  of  you,  nor  will  I 
have  anything  to  do  with  you  ;  go  about  your  business." 

The  caliph  endeavored  to  soothe  him,  saying,  "You  can- 
not, surely,  have  forgotten  the  evening  we  passed  so  pleas- 
antly at  your  house,  a  little  while  ago?  I  then  tendered 
you  my  best  services,  and  now  repeat  the  offer,  and  shall 
be  glad  to  repay  your  hospitality  by  making  myself  useful 
to  you.  Let  me  beg  you  will  for  once  set  aside  your 
usual  custom  of  not  receiving  the  same  guest  the  second 
time,  and  take  me  home  again  with  you  this  evening." 

Abon  Hassan  refused  this  request  with  high  indignation, 
and  again  bid  the  supposed  merchant  begone.  But  the 
caliph  urged  him  so  vehemently,  and  seemed  so  desirous 
of  knowing  the  cause  of  his  host's  anger,  that-  Hassan  at 
last  suffered  himself  to  be  prevailed  on  to  receive  him  as 
his  guest  the  second  time.  He  took  care,  however,  to 
exact  a  very  solemn  promise,  that  he  would  shut  the  door 
after  him,  when  he  went  out  in  the  morning. 

When  they  arrive'd  at  Abon  Hassan's  house,  he  related 
to  the  caliph  all  that  had  befallen  him.  "  But,"  continued 
he,  "you  will  not  expect  to  hear  tbp-t  it  is  entirely  owing 
to  you  that  these  things  happened.  I  desired  you  to  shut 
the  door,  which  you  neglected  to  do  ;  and  some  devil  find- 
ing it  open,  put  this  dream  in  my  head  ;  which,  though  it 
was  very  agreeable  while  it  lasted,  was  the  cause  of  all 
these  misfortunes.  You  are  in  part  answerable  for  all  the 
extravagances  I  ran  into ;  and  chiefly  for  the  horrid  and 
detestable  crime  I  was  guilty  of  in  lifting  up  my  hand 
against  my  mother." 

The  caliph  hearing  Abon  Hassan  thus  gravely  laying 


320  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  his  charge  so  many  evils,  burst  into  laughter,  which 
exceedingly  affrouted  his  host.  "  Perhaps  you  will  find 
something  very  diverting  in  this  also,"  said  he,  and  at  the 
same  time  bared  his  back  and  shoulders,  and  showed  the 
wales  and  livid  marks  which  remained  from  the  chastise- 
ment he  had  undergone  in  the  hospital.  The  caliph,  on 
beholding  this  piteous  sight,  became  really  sorry  that 
Hassan  had  suffered  so  much.  He  embraced  and  condoled 
with  him.  After  which  he  said,  "Let  us  forget,  as  well 
as  we  can,  all  that  is  disagreeable,  and  dedicate  this  even- 
ing to  mirth.  To-morrow  I  will  endeavor  to  repay  your 
sufferings  to  your  satisfaction." 

Abon  Hassan  had  conceived  an  esteem  for  his  guest. 
He  suffered  his  anger  to  be  overcome  by  these  entreaties, 
and  sitting  down  with  him,  they  passed  the  evening  to- 
gether in  great  jollity.  When  it  grew  late,  the  caliph 
conveyed  a  little  of  the  same  powder  into  the  cup  of  his 
host,  which  had  its  usual  effect;  and  the  slave  carried 
Hassan  a  second  time  to  the  palace. 

The  caliph  caused  him  to  be  again  habited  in  the  im- 
perial robes,  and  laid  on. a  sofa  in  the  hall  where  he  had 
before  fallen  asleep.  In  the  morning,  Mesrour,  with  the 
other  attendants,  took  their  places  ;  the  effect  of  the  pow- 
der was  dissipated  as  before,  and,  as  Abon  Hassan  awak 
ened,  the  music  struck  up  a  delightful  concert. 

Abon  Hassan  was  astonished  to  hear  the  charming 
harmony.  He  looked  around  him,  and  remembered  the 
hall;  he  even  thought  he  recollected  the  persons  of  the 
ladies.  "Alas  ! "  said  he  aloud,  "  I  am  fallen  into  the  same 
fatal  dream  that  happened  to  me  a  month  ago,  and  must 
expect  again  the  discipline  of  the  mad-house.  He  was  a 
wicked  man  whom  I  entertained  last  night;  he  is  the 
cause  of  this  illusion,  and  of  all  the  miseries  I  must  un- 
dergo. The  base  wretch  promised  to  shut  the  door  after 
him,  and  did  not  do  it,  and  the  devil  has  come  in,  and 
filled  my  head  with  this  cursed  dream  again.  Mayest 
thou  be  confounded,  Satan,  and  crushed  under  some 
mountain!" 

Abon  Hassan  continued  some  time  thoughtful  ;   when, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS      ENTERTAINMENTS.  321 

shutting  his  eyes  and  stretching  himself  on  the  sofa,  'I'll 
go  to  sleep,"  said  he,  "till  Satan  leaves  me."  On  which 
one  of  the  ladies  approaching  him  said,  "  Commander  of 
the  faithful,  I  beg  your  majesty  will  permit  rae  to  tell 
you,  that  day  appears,  and  it  is  time  to  rise."  "  Begone, 
Satan  ! "  replied  Abon  Hassan,  raising  his  voice.  Then  look- 
ing on  the  lady,  he  said,  "  Is  it  me  you  call  commander  of 
the  faithful?"  "To  whom,"  replied  the  lady,  "should  I 
give  that  title  but  to  your  majesty,  who  is  the  sovereign 
of  the  world  and  of  Mussulmans  ?  But  to  convince  you 
perfectly,  let  me  remind  you  of  what  passed  yesterday." 
She  then  told  him  of  the  several  matters  which  occurred 
in  the  council;  of  his  liberality  to  Abon  Hassan's  mother; 
and  of  the  punishment  of  the  imam  and  his  companions. 
"  Your  majesty,  then,"  continued  she,  "  dined  in  the  three 
halls  as  usual ;  and  in  this  you  did  us  the  honor  to  make 
us  sit  down  with  you,  to  hear  our  songs,  and  receive  wine 
from  our  hands,  till  you  fell  asleep,  and  never  awakened 
till  now." 

The  confidence  with  which  the  lady  assured  Hassan  of 
these  things,  and  his  own  recollection  of  the  circumstances 
threw  him  into  the  utmost  perplexity.  "All  she  tells  me 
is  certainly  true,"  said  he  aloud;  "for  I  remember  every 
particular  of  it.  Am  I,  indeed,  caliph  ?  Do  I  dream  now, 
or  was  I  in  a  dream  when  I  fancied  myself  in  a  mad-house  ? " 
At  length  recollecting  that  his  shoulders  still  retained  a 
melancholy  proof  of  the  treatment  he  had  received,  he 
once  more  uncovered  them,  and  asked  his  attendants  how 
they  durst  suffer  such  disgraceful  severity  to  be  offered  to 
the  caliph  while  he  slept.  The  lady  was  confounded  ;  and 
not  knowing  how  to  answer  so  trying  a  question,  she 
made  a  signal  for  the  music  to  renew  the  concert,  while 
she  and  her  companions  danced  round  the  imaginary 
caliph.  Abon  Hassan  beheld  them  for  some  time  with  a 
mixture  of  delight  and  anxiety ;  but  as  they  continued  to 
dance,  he  became  transported,  and  leaping  up,  joined  them 
in  their  amusement,  committing  numberless  pleasant  ex- 
travagances; till  the  caliph,  who  had  from  his  closet  been 
a  spectator  of  all  that  passed,  and  had  laughed  till  he  was 


322  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

quite  exhausted,  called  out,  "Abon  Hassan,  Abon  Hassan, 
you  will  make  me  die  with  laughter." 

The  instant  the  caliph's  voice  was  heard,  the  music 
ceased,  and  every  one  was  silent.  The  monarch  came 
forward,  laughing.  Abon  Hassan  recollected  him,  not- 
withstanding his  royal  robes;  and  joining  in  the  joke, 
without  being  in  the  least  dashed  at  the  presence  of  his 
sovereign,  he  cried  out,  "  Ha  !  ha!  you  are  a  merchant  of 
Moussol,  and  complain  I  would  kill  you ;  you  who  have 
been  the  occasion  of  my  using  my  mother  so  ill ;  it  was 
you  who  punished  the  imam  and  the  four  sheiks ;  I  wash 
my  hands  of  it.  In  short,  you  ought  to  answer  for  all 
my  irregularities." 

The  caliph  acknowledged  the  truth  of  Abon  Hassan's 
remarks;  and  at  his  request,  told  him  the  coDtrivance  he 
had  used  to  convey  him  thus  about.  He  then  bid  Hassan 
ask  boldly  for  any  favor  he  wished,  to  make  him  amends 
for  the  severities  he  had  undergone. 

"  Commander  of  the  faithful,"  replied  Abon  Hassan 
"  how  great  soever  my  distress  was,  I  have  quite  forgotten 
it,  now  that  I  know  my  sovereign  received  amusement 
from  those  circumstances  which. occasioned  it.  I  doubt  not 
your  majesty's  bounty,-  but  shall  only  ask  that  I  may  bo 
allowed  to  approach  your  royal  person,  and  have  the 
nappiness  all  my  life  of  admiring  your  grandeur!"  The 
modesty  of  this  request  charmed  the  caliph,  who  had  be- 
fore a  great  esteem  for  Hassan ;  he  granted  his  desire  in 
the  most  ample  manner,  assured  him  of  his  protection, 
and  received  him  into  his  familiar  friendship. 

Abon  Hassan  was  lively  and  pleasant ;  he  continually 
promoted  the  amusement  of  his  royal  master,  so  that  he 
became  his  constant  companion  during  those  hours  which 
were  not  devoted  to  business.  The  caliph  often  carried 
him  to  the  apartment  of  his  spouse,  Zobeide,  who  had 
heard  his  story  with  much  pleasure.  This  princess  had  a 
favorite  slave,  called'  Nouzhatoul-aouadat.  Hassan  had 
not  often  been  admitted  to  the  presence  of  Zobeide,  before 
she  observed  that  his  eyes  were  often  fixed  on  this  young 
lady ;  who,  on  her  part,  betrayed  evident  proofs  of  par- 
tiality for  him. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  323 

Zobeide  was  no  sooner  convinced  that  their  attachment 
was  mutual,  than  she  proposed  to  the  caliph  to  give  her 
slave  to  Abon  Hassan.  The  prince  consenting,  the  mar- 
riage was  solemnized  in  the  palace  with  great  rejoicings. 
The  bride  and  bridegroom  received  very  considerable 
presents  from  Zobeide  and  the  caliph,  and  Abon  Hassan 
conducted  his  spouse  with  great  joy  to  the  apartments 
allotted  him  in  the  palace. 

Abon  Hassan  and  his  spouse  lived  together  in  perfect 
union.  Nouzhatoul-aouadat  was  endued  with  all  the  quali- 
fications capable  of  gaining  her  husband's  love  and  esteem ; 
and  he  omitted  nothing  that  could  render  himself  accept- 
able to  her.  He  furnished  his  table  with  the  choicest 
dainties  and  most  exquisite  wines;  he  hired  the  best 
musicians  to  entertain  her  ;  in  a  word,  their  time  passed 
in  a  continual  round  of  pleasure. 

But  before  the  first  year  of  their  marriage  was  expired, 
their  steward  made  so  large  a  demand  on  his  master,  as 
entirely  exhausted  his  purse,  and  they  found  themselves 
all  at  once  exceedingly  embarrassed.  Abon  Hassan  durst 
not  apply  to  the  caliph  for  assistance,  having  in  so  short 
a  time  lavished  away  a  considerable  treasure;  nor  could 
he  have  recourse  to  his  own  fortune  ;  for  when  the  caliph 
received  him  into  his  household,  he  made  over  the  whole 
of  his  patrimony  to  his  mother;  and  he  resolved  on  no 
account  to  lessen  her  income.  On  the  other  hand,  Nouz- 
hatoul-aouadat  considered  Zobeide's  generosity  to  her  on 
her  nuptials  as  more  than  a  sufficient  recompense  for  her 
services,  and  thought  that  she  ought  not  to  apply  to  her 
for  more. 

On  the  departure  of  the  steward,  they  sat  a  long  time 
silent,  each  revolving  these  disagreeable  ideas.  At  length 
Abon  Hassan  said  to  his  wife,  "  I  see  you  are  as  much  dis- 
tressed as  I  am  on  this  occasion;  but  I  think  I  have  con- 
trived a  trick,  if  you'll  assist  me,  which,  while  it  discovers 
our  necessities  to  the  caliph  and  Zobeide,  will  at  the  same 
time  divert  them.  To  this  purpose,  you  and  I  must  both 
die — "  "JS"ot  I,  indeed,"  interrupted  his  wife,  who  had 
before  listened  tc  him  with  great  attention;  "if  you  have 


824  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

nothing  else  to  propose,  you  may  do  that  by  yourself  it 
you  choose  it." 

"  You  do  not  suppose,  surely,"  replied  Hassan,  hastily, 
"  that  I  mean  really  to  die.  I  propose  only  that  I  should 
feign  myself  dead,  and  you  should  go  in  tears  to  Zobeide 
and  by  expressing  great  sorrow,  move  her  pity.  On  your 
return,  I  will  put  the  same  cheat  on  the  caliph,  and,  be- 
sides the  usual  presents  we  shall  each  receive  on  this 
occasion,  I  flatter  myself  the  explanation  will  be  very 
beneficial  to  us." 

Nouzhatoul-aouadat  now  entered  into  her  husband's 
scheme  with  great  readiness.  She  spread  a  sheet  on  the 
carpet  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  on  which  Hassan  laid 
himself  along,  with  his  feet  toward  Mecca ;  he  crossed  his 
arms,  and  his  wife  wrapped  him  up,  and  put  a  piece  of  fine 
muslin  and  his  turban  on  his  face.  She  then  disordered 
ber  dress,  and  with  dismal  cries  and  lamentations  ran  to 
Zobeide's  apartments.  Having  obtained  admission  to  the 
princess,  she  redoubled  her  cries,  tore  her  hair,  and  ex- 
pressed every  appearance  of  the  most  extravagant  afflic- 
tion ;  to  her  mistress's  eager  inquiries  into  the  cause  of 
this  sorrow,  she  was  a  long  time  silent,  as  if  unable  to 
speak  ;  but  at  last,  seeming  to  suppress  her  sighs,  she 
said,  "  May  heaven  prolong  your  days,  most  respectable 
princess !  Abon  Hassan,  poor  Abon  Hassan,  whom  you 
honored  with  your  esteem,  and  gave  me  for  a  husband, 
is  no  more  !  " 

Zobeide  was  much  afflicted  at  this  news.  "Is  Abon 
Hassan  dead?"  exclaimed  she;  "that  agreeable,  pleasant 
man  ?  Alas,  he  deserved  a  longer  life  !"  Saying  this,  she 
shed  tears ;  and  all  her  attendants,  to  whom  Abon  Has- 
san's good  humor  had  much  endeared  him,  joined  in 
bewailing  his  loss.  Zobeide  then  presented  the  supposed 
widow  with  a  piece  of  brocade  and  a  hundred  pieces  of 
gold.  "  Go,"  said  she,  "  bury  the  corpse  of  thy  husband 
in  that  brocade,  and  moderate  the  transports  of  thy  af- 
fliction.    I  will  take  care  of  thee." 

Nouzhatoul-aouadat,  having  returned  suitable  thanks  to 
the  princess,  withdrew,  and  going  with  great  joy  to  her 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  325 

husband,  she  said,  "  Rise,  and  see  the  fruits  of  your  pro- 
ject. Now  let  me  act  the  dead  part,  and  see  if  you  man- 
age the  caliph  as  well  as  I  have  done  Zobeide." 

Abon  Hassan  wrapped  up  his  wife  as  she  had  done  him, 
and  with  his  turban  loosened  and  put  awry  on  his  head, 
and  like  a  man  in  the  deepest  sorrow,  ran  to  the  caliph, 
and  announced  the  death  of  his  beloved  Nouzhatoul-aoua- 
dat.  That  prince  was  as  liberal  to  the  false  widower  as 
his  princess  had  been  to  her  slave ;  and  Abon  Hassan  left 
his  patron  with  a  rejoicing  heart,  though  his  face  expressed 
very  different  associations. 

The  caliph  was  impatient  to  condole  with  Zobeide  Oh 
the  death  of  her  slave.  He  went  immediately  with  Mes- 
rour  to  her  apartments,  where  he  found  her  drowned  in 
tears.  He  seated  himself  by  her,  and  in  the  most  tender 
manner  used  every  argument  in  his  power  to  console  her. 
The  princess,  though  highly  gratified  at  this  proof  of  the 
caliph's  tenderness,  was  amazed  to  hear  him  lament  the 
death  of  Nouzhatoul-aouadat.  She  thanked  him  for  his 
affectionate  attention  to  her,  but  added,  "Your  majesty 
has  been  misinformed.  It  is  not  the  death  of  my  slave 
which  afflicts  me.  She  was  here  just  now,  in  good  health, 
though  in  much  distress.  These  tears  are  shed  for  Abon 
Hassan,  whose  untimely  dissolution  grieves  me  much,  and 
cannot,  I  suppose,  be  indifferent  to  your  majesty." 

The  caliph,  who  had  just  parted  with  Abon  Hassan, 
assured  her  that  he  was  alive  and  well.  "  'Tis  his  wife," 
continued  he,  "  who  is  dead ;  it  is  only  a  few  minutes 
since  he  left  me,  overwhelmed  with  affliction  for  the  loss." 

Zobeide  became  a  good  deal  piqued  at  this  answer  of  the 
caliph.  She  thought  he  bantered  her.  She  affirmed  with 
much  heat  that  it  was  Abon  Hassan  who  was  dead,  and 
appealed  to  her  nurse  and  other  attendants  to  confirm 
what  she  asserted.  The  caliph  was  as  confident  he  was 
alive,  and  his  wife  was  dead.  To  close  the  dispute,  the 
monarch  proposed  to  wager  his  garden  of  pleasures  against 
the  princess's  palace  of  paintings.  Zobeide  agreed;  and 
Mosrour  was  dispatched  to  Abon  Hassan's  apartment, 
28 


326  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

charged  by  both  the  caliph  and  his  lady  to  return  with  a 
strict  account. 

Abon  Hassan  had  foreseen  this  dispute.  When  he  per- 
ceived Mesrour  approaching,  he  prepared  his  wife  to  act 
the  dead  part  again.  He  spread  the  piece  of  brocade  over 
her,  and  seated  himself  at  the  head  of  the  pretended 
corpse,  in  great  apparent  sorrow.  In  this  situation  the 
eunuch  found  him.  Mesrour  was  affected  at  the  dismal 
sight.  He  seated  himself  on  the  other  side  of  the  body, 
and  began  to  offer  consolation  to  Abon  Hassan.  He  lifted 
up  the  pall  a  little  at  the  head,  and  looking  under  it,  let 
it  fall  again,  and  said,  with  a  deep  sigh,  "  There  is  no  other 
God  but  God  ;  we  must  all  submit  to  his  will  and  return 
to  him."  Then  turning  to  Abon  Hassan,  who  was  sighing 
and  groaning  most  pitifully,  he  besought  him  not  to  in- 
dulge in  an  unavailing  sorrow,  and  having  conversed  with 
him  a  little  time,  he  arose  and  took  his  leave. 

Mesrour  returned  to  Zobeide's  apartment,  and  on  ap- 
pearing before  his  master,  he  clapped  his  hands,  laughing, 
like  one  who  had  something  very  agreeable  to  tell;  but 
the  caliph  and  the  princess  had  disputed  till  they  were 
both  out  of  humor.  The  impatient  prince  cried  out,  "  Yile 
slave,  is  this  a  time  to  laugh  ?  Tell  me  which  is  dead, 
the  wife  or  the  husband." 

"Commander  of  the  Faithful,"  replied  Mesrour,  seri- 
ously, "it  is  Nouzhatoul-aouadat  who  is  dead."  The 
caliph  immediately  turning  to  Zobeide,  claimed  the  palace 
of  paintings.  The  princess  pettishly  replied,  "  I  see  your 
majesty  has  contrived  with  Mesrour  to  chagrin  me.  I 
myself  conversed  with  my  slave,  who  told  me  her  husband 
was  dead  ;  my  attendants  all  saw  and  heard  her.  This 
despicable  slave  has  brought  a  false  account ;  I  beg  I  may 
send  a  person  I  can  trust  to  clear  up  this  matter." 

"  I  know  not,"  replied  the  caliph,  "  whe  was  the  author 
of  that  saying,  that  women  sometimes  lose  their  wits;  but 
1  am  sure  you  give  a  proof  that  he  was  not  mistaken. 
You  may  send  whom  you  please  ;  but  I  once  more  assure 
you  that  my  own  eyes  and  ears  are  witnesses  that  Mes- 
rour has  told  the  truth," 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  321 

Zobeide  dispatched  her  nurse  to  Abon  Hassan's  apart- 
ment; and  not  choosing  to  dispute  with  the  caliph,  she 
contented  herself  with  reproaching  the  eunuch.  The 
monarch  enjoyed  her  anger  ;  but  poor  Mesrour  was  much 
mortified.  He  comforted  himself,  however,  with  the  hope 
that  the  return  of  the  nurse  would  set  all  to  rights  again. 

When  Abon  Hassan  had  released  his  wife  from  her 
bands,  after  the  departure  of  Mesrour,  he  said  to  her, 
"  Though  tbe  eunuch  did  not  mention  his  master,  I  am 
persuaded  that  the  visit  was  made  by  his  direction.  The 
caliph  and  the  princess  1  doubt  not  are  debating  which 
of  us  is  dead ;  and  as  Zobeide  will  not  believe  Mesrour, 
we  may  expect  further  inquiries."  They  sat  down,  there- 
fore, on  a  sofa  opposite  the  window,  and  watched  who 
drew  near. 

When  they  saw  the  nurse  coming,  Hassan  again  ap- 
peared as  the  dead  body.  Nouzhatoul-aouadat  placed 
herself  at  his  head,  her  hair  dishevelled,  her  dress  dis- 
ordered, and  herself  apparently  in  the  utmost  distress. 
The  nurse,  on  entering  the  apartment,  endeavored  to 
console  her,  and  when  she  appeared  a  little  composed, 
expressed  her  surprise  at  finding  everything  the  reverse 
of  what  the  eunuch  had  reported.  "  That  black-faced 
Mesrour,"  said  she,  "  deserves  to  be  impaled  for  having 
made  so  great  a  difference  between  our  good  mistress  and 
the  commander  of  the  Faithful.  He  has  had  the  incon- 
ceivable impudence  to  assert,  before  the  princess'  face, 
that  you,  daughter,  are  dead,  and  Abon  Hassan  alive." 

The  nurse,  having  comforted  the  supposed  widow,  hast- 
ened back  to  Zobeide,  and  related  what  she  had  seen. 
Mesrour  was  equally  vexed  and  disappointed  at  a  report 
so  different  from  what  he  expected.  A  violent  altercation 
took  place  between  him  and  the  nurse ;  which  the  princess 
resented  so  much,  that  she  burst  into  tears,  and  demanded 
justice  of  the  caliph  against  the  audacious  and  insolent 
eunuch. 

But  the  monarch  who  had  heard  their  different  accounts 
considered  that  Zobeide  herself  had  been  positive  on  the 
one  hand,  and  he  on  the  other.     He  began,  therefore,  tc 


828  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

thinJr  there  was  something  more  in  the  affair  than  he 
could  comprehend.  Having  pacified  Zobeide,  he  proposed 
that  they  should  go  together  to  Abon  Hassan's  apartment, 
and  let  their  own  eyes  determine  the  controversy. 

They  set  forward  accordingly,  followed  by  all  their 
retinue.  Abon  Hassan,  seeing  the  cavalcade  approach, 
wrapped  his  wife  up  as  before,  and  lying  down  by  her, 
contrived  to  place  the  brocade  and  turban  upon  himself,' 
so  that  on  the  entrance  of  the  royal  visitors  they  both  ap- 
peared as  laid  out. 

"When  the  caliph  and  the  princess  entered  the  room, 
they  were  exceedingly  shocked  at  the  dismal  sight.  After 
some  time,  Zobeide  exclaimed  with  a  sigh,  "Alas  !  they 
are  both  dead  !  it  is  dangerous  jesting  on  such  awful  sub- 
jects." "You  jocularly  told  me,"  said  she  to  the  caliph, 
"that  my  slave  was  dead,  and  now  I  find  she  is  really  so- 
Grief  for  the  loss  of  her  husband  has  certainly  killed  her." 

The  caliph  strenuously  asserted  that  Abon  Hassan  had 
been  unable  to  support  life  after  the  death  of  Nouzhatoul- 
aouadat.  The  nurse  and  Mesrour  renewed  their  alterca- 
tion ;  and  all  parties  found  themselves  as  far  from  certainty 
as  ever.  In  the  conversation  the  caliph  vowed  he  would 
give  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold  to  him.  who  could  prove 
which  of  the  two  died  first.  Instantly  a  hand  was  held 
out,  and  a  voice  from  under  Abon  Hassan's  pall  was  heard 
to  say,  "  I  died  first,  commander  of  the  Faithful ;  gwe  me 
the  thousand  pieces  of  gold."  At  the  same  time  Abon 
Hassan  threw  off  the  brocade,  and  prostrated  himself  at 
the  feet  of  the  caliph,  as  did  his  wife  at  those  of  the 
princess. 

Abon  Hassan  related  the  necessitj7  which  gave  rise  to 
this  device,  and  finished  his  narrative  by  very  gravely 
demanding  the  thousand  pieces  of  gold.  Zobeide,  at  first, 
was  very  serious,  not  being  well  pleased  to  have  be-^n  so 
much  afflicted;  but  the  caliph  laughing  very  heax*t>ly  at 
the  trick,  she  at  length  joined  in  his  good-humor;  and  by 
their  mutual  liberality  they  furnished  Abon  Hassan  and 
Nouzhatoul-aouadat  with  a  sufficient  income  to  enjoy  tbeii 
favorite  pleasures. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  329 


THE   ADVENTURES    OF    THE    CALIPH     HAROUN   ALRASCI1ID. 

Ono  of  those  evenings  in  which  the  caliph  Haroun  Al- 
raschid  was  pursuing  his  usual  custom  of  walking  in  dis- 
guise about  his  metropolis,  to  see  that  good  order  was 
everywhere  observed,  he  took  notice  of  a  blind  beggar 
whose  appearance  excited  his  compassion.  He  gave  him  a 
small  piece  of  money,  which  the  beggar  received  with 
thankfulness;  but  at  the  same  time  caught  hold  of  his 
clothes,  and  said,  "  Charitable  person,  whosoever  you  are, 
that  God  hath  inspired  with  benevolence,  I  entreat  you 
to  give  me  a  smart  blow  also.  Alas!  I  have  deserved  a 
greater  punishment." 

The  caliph  was  surprised  at  this  request,  which  he  re- 
fused to  comply  with.  "Then,"  replied  the  beggar,  "I 
must  desire  you  to  take  back  your  alms,  for  I  have  made 
a  solemn  vow  never  to  receive  the  one  without  the  other. 
If  you  knew  the  reason,  you  would  allow  the  penance  is 
not  equal  to  my  offences."  The  caliph  not  choosing  to  be 
detained,  gave  him  a  slight  blow ;  after  which  the  blind 
man  let  him  go,  and  thanked  him  and  blessed  him. 

The  extreme  severity  with  which  a  young  man  chas- 
tised a  very  beautiful  mare,  next  engaged  the  caliph's  at- 
tention, with  the  more  reason,  as  he  learnt  that  for  many 
days  past  the  man  had  exercised  his  beast  every  day  with 
the  same  severity.  G-iafar  was  directed  by  his  master  to 
order  this  man  and  the  beggar  to  attend  the  caliph  at  the 
divan  next  day. 

In  his  further  progress,  the  caliph  took  notice  of  a  very 
handsome  house,  newly  built.  He  inquired  who  was  the 
owner,  and  was  informed  that  he  was  called  Cogia  Hassan 
Alhabbal,  (rope-maker;)  that  very  lately  he  had  been  so 
exceedingly  poor,  that  he  could  hardly  supply  his  family 
with  necessaries,  but  all  at  once  he  had  become  very  rich, 
and  defrayed  honorably  the  expense  he  now  lived  at.  The 
caliph  ordered  Cogia  Hassan  to  be  summoned  before  him 
with  the  others. 

Next  day  they  all  attended.     The  caliph  addressed  him- 
self first  to  the  beggar,  and  demanded  the  reason  of  his 
28* 


33P  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

extraordinary  conduct.  The  blind  man,  having  paid  his 
respects  to  the  caliph  in  the  usual  manner,  related  his 
story  as  follows. 

THE    STORY    OP    THE    BLIND    MAN,    BABA    ABDALLAH. 

Commander  of  the  Faithful,  I  am  ready  to  obey  ycu, 
though  1  know  that  in  relating  the  cause  of  my  imposing 
this  penance  upon  myself,  I  must  discover  a  very  heinous 
crime  to  your  majest}^.  Whatever  further  punishment 
you  ma}r  order  to  be  inflicted  on  me,  I  shall  submit  to  it 
without  murmuring. 

I  am  called  Baba  Abdallah,  and  was  born  at  Bagdad. 
Having  but  little  fortune  to  begin  the  world  with,  I  early 
learnt  the  strictest  economy,  which  very  soon  became 
avarice.  By  a  close  attention  to  its  dictates,  I  became  pos- 
sessed of  four-score  camels,  which  I  used  to  let  to  the 
merchants,  and  drive  them  myself  to  whatever  place  they 
were  hired  for;  by  which  diligence  I  was  obtaining,  very 
fast,  a  handsome  competence.  In  the  midst  of  this  good 
fortune,  as  I  was  returning  one  day  from  Balsora,  with 
my  camels  unloaded,  a  dervis  joined  me  on  the  road.  We 
fell  into  discourse,  and  presently  sitting  down,  each  pro- 
duced his  provisions  and  we  ate  together.  After  our  re- 
past, the  dervis  told  me  that  he  knew  of  a  treasure  near 
at  hand,  so  great,  that  if  all  my  beasts  were  laden  with 
gold  and  jewels,  it  would  not  be  missed  from  the  heap. 

I  was  delighted  at  this  news,  and  entreated  the  dervis 
to  show  me  where  it  was,  and  let  me  load  my  camels  with 
it:  preposterously  offering  to  give  him  one  of  them.  The 
dervis  checked  my  avarice  with  great  good-humor. 
"Will  yoli  not  be  content,"  said  he,  "if  I  give  you  as 
much  treasure  as  will  load  forty  of  your  camels,  to  give 
me  the  other  forty  and  let  me  load  them  on  my  own  ac- 
count ?  Consider,  though  you  give  me  forty  of  your  car- 
riers, you  will  receive  by  my  means  as  much  wealth  as 
would  purchase  many  thousands  of  them." 

There  was  much  truth  and  justice  in  this  remark,  yet  1 
could  not  without  reluctance  think  of  agreeing  to  his  re- 
quest.    The  dervis  would  in  that  case  be  as  rich  a  man 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  331 

as  myself:  my  desire  of  riches  also  was  become  so  violent, 
that  I  thought  it  was  a  great  deal  to  spare  him  one,  though 
I  retained  seventy-nine. 

But  there  was  no  time  to  hesitate ;  if  I  did  not  comply 
I  must  give  up  all  hopes  of  possessing  immense  wealth. 
I  consented,  therefore,  with  seeming  thankfulness,  and  we 
travelled  till  we  came  to  a  spacious  valley  formed  by  two 
mountains.  When  we  had  advanced  some  way,  the  dervis 
made  a  fire,  and  casting  a  perfume  into  it,  he  said  some 
words  I  did  not  understand ;  a  thick  cloud  arose,  and, 
when  it  dispersed,  we  found  one  of  the  mountains  opened, 
and  discovered  a  prodigious  cavern  full  of  all  sorts  of  riches. 

I  made  the  camels  kneel  down  as  usual  to  receive  their 
load,  and  then  flew  like  a  hungry  vulture  to  my  prey. 
The  sacks  were  large,  and  1  would  gladly  have  filled  them 
all,  but  I  was  obliged  to  proportion  my  burden  to  the 
strength  of  my  beasts.  When  we  had  laden  them  with 
gold  and  jewels,  I  observed  the  dervis  go  to  a  vessel,  and 
take  out  a  little  box,  which  he  put  in  his  bosom  ;  but  first 
showed  me  that  it  contained  only  a  kind  of  pomatum. 

The  dervis  having  closed  the  mountain,  we  each  of  us 
took  charge  of  our  forty  camels,  and  left  the  valley.  We 
travelled  together  till  we  came  to  the  great  road,  where 
we  were  to  part ;  the  dervis  going  to  Balsora,  and  I  to 
Bagdad.  Here  I  poured  forth  my  acknowledgments  in 
the  fullest  manner,  for  the  riches  he  had  given  me,  and 
we  bade  each  other  farewell. 

I  had  not  got  many  paces  before  the  vilest  ingratitude 
took  possession  of  me.  I  not  only  forgot  my  obligations  to 
the  dervis,  but  determined  to  deprive  him  of  his  share  of 
the  treasure  we  had  brought  from  the  valleys.  Having 
formed  this  infamous  resolution,  I  soon  found  out  a  spe- 
cious reason  to  hide  from  my  heart  its  own  baseness.  "Is 
not  the  dervis,"  said  I,  "  master  of  this  immense  treasure? 
Cannot  he  go  to  it  when  he  pleases?  What  injury  then 
shall  I  do  him?" 

I  stopped  my  camels  and  went  up  to  him,  saying, 
"  Brother,  it  occurs  to  me  that  you  are  not  used  to  the  man- 
agement of  these  beasts,  and  will  nevza*  be  able  to  conduct 


332  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

forty  of  them  to  Balsora.     You  had  better  give  up  ten  oi 
them  to  me." 

"  I  believe  you  are  right,"  replied  the  dervis ;  "  I  appre- 
hend the  difficulty  you  mention.  Take  any  ten  you  please 
and  add  them  to  your  own." 

Finding  my  benefactor  so  easily  persuaded,  I  proceeded 
with  moderation.  "You  will  soon  find,"  said  I,  "  that  you 
have  done  wisely  in  lessening  the  number  of  your  camels  ; 
indeed,  the  regard  I  have  for  your  safety  makes  me  wish 
you  would  part  with  ten  more.  I  can  manage  a  hundred 
as  well  as  one;  but  you  will  find  twenty  too  man}T." 

"If  you  think  so,  brother,"  replied  the  dervis,  "take 
other  ten."  I  did  so,  and  was  owner  of  sixty  camels 
loaded  with  jewels  and  gold.  This  immense  wealth,  in- 
stead of  satisfying  my  desires,  only  made  me  more  eager 
for  the  remaining  twenty.  "  You,  brother,"  said  I,  "  are  a 
good  dervis,  unattached  to  the  world,  and  intent  only  on  ' 
serving  G-od.  You  will  find  all  this  treasure  a  snare  to 
you.  Be  content,  then,  with  ten  camels,  and  let  me,  out 
of  friendship  to  you,  drive  away  the  remainder." 

The  dervis  complied  with  this  unreasonable  request 
also,  without  murmuring.  I  then  embraced  him,  op- 
pressed him  with  my  too  abundant  thanks,  with  vows 
of  everlasting  gratitude  and  love;  and  I  finished  in  be- 
seeching him  to  crown  my  joy,  by  giving  me  the  other 
ten  also.  "Take  them,  brother,"  replied  the  dervis;  "use 
them  properly.  Remember,  also,  that  God  can  take  away 
riches  as  well  as  bestow  them." 

Though  I  was  much  pleased  to  have  acquired  so  easily 
the  treasure  which  I  had  resolved  to  obtain  by  violence, 
if  necessary,  my  desires  were  now  become  unbounded. 
Recollecting  the  box  of  pomatum  which  the  dervis  had 
taken  out  of  the  treasury,  it  occurred  to  me  that  possibly 
that  box  might  be  of  more  value  than  all  the  treasure  1 
had  obtained  from  him  ;  hence  I  accounted  for  his  so  read- 
ily giving  up  his  forty  camels;  at  any  rate,  the  care  with 
which  he  put  it  by  convinced  me  that  it  was  of  great 
value,  and  I  determined  to  have  it. 

When  I  put  the  camels  in  order,  I  went  to  the  dervis, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  333 

and  embracing  him,  bid  him  again  adieu!  but  just  as  1 
was  turning  from  him,  I  said:  "You,  who  have  renounced 
the  vanities  of  the  world,  can  have  no  use  for  pomatum. 
I  wish  you  would  make  me  a  present  of  that  you  took  out 
of  the  treasury."  "  Most  willingly,"  replied  he,  taking 
the  box  out  of  his  bosom,  and  presenting  it  to  me  with 
great  good-nature. 

I  was  surprised  at  his  parting  with  it  so  readily.  1 
opened  the  box,  and  asked  him  the  use  of  the  pomatum. 
"  It  possesses,"  said  he,  "when  applied  by  me,  very  oppo- 
site and  wonderful  qualities.  If  I  anoint  your  left  eye 
with  it,  you  will  see  all  the  treasures  contained  in  the 
bowels  of  the  earth ;  if  I  apply  it  to  your  right  eye,  you 
will  become  blind." 

I  was  desirous  of  trying  the  experiment,  and  desired 
the  dervis  to  rub  some  of  it  ou  my  left  eye.  "When  he 
had  done  so,  I  saw  immense  treasures,  so  diversified  that 
it  is  impossible  for  me  to  describe,  or  any  one  to  conceive 
them.  Having»contemplated  these  for  some  time,  I  re- 
quested the  dervis  to  put  some  of  the  pomatum  on  my 
right  eye  also. 

"  How,"  replied  be,  starting,  "  would  you  have  me,  who 
have  done  you  so  much  service,  become  your  enemy,  and 
do  you  an  irreparable  injury  ?  I  call  God  to  witness  that 
if  you  persist  in  your  resolution,  you  will  become  blind 
immediately." 

The  more  earnest  the  dervis  was  with  me  to  desist, 
the  more  I  determined  to  persevere.  I  thought  it  was 
incredible  that  the  pomatum  should  have  such  opposite 
effects.  I  had  no  doubt  but  by  means  of  some  of  it,  ob- 
tained elsewhere,  the  dervis  had  been  enabled  to  discovei 
the  treasure  he  had  led  me  to;  and  I  reasoned  that  if  the 
pomatum,  being  applied  to  one  eye,  could  show  me  all  the 
treasures  of  the  earth,  very  probably  by  applying  it  to  the 
other  I  might  obtain  the  means  of  disposing  of  them. 
Prepossessed  with  this  opinion,  I  said  to  the  dervis,  "You 
have  granted  me  everything  1  have  asked;  deny  me  not 
this  last  favor.  Whatever  consequences  may  ensue,  I 
excuse  you,  and  take  them  all  upon  myself     If  you  per- 


334  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

sist  in  refusing  me,  I  shall  be  convinced  you  have  some 
views  of  your  own,  which  you  wish  to  conceal ;  I  shall 
cease  to  consider  you  as  my  benefactor,  and  shall  think 
myself  entitled  to  make  you  repent  your  obstinacy."  The 
menacing  manner  in  which  I  uttered  these  words  alarmed 
the  dervis.  He  made  haste  to  apply  the  pomatum  to  my 
right  eye,  and  I  instantly  became  blind,  as  you  see  me  now. 

"Ah!  dervis,"  cried  I,  at  that  fatal  moment,  "what  you 
told  me  is  too  true.  Unbounded  avarice!  insatiable  thirst 
of  riches  I  to  what  misery  have  you  reduced  me  !  But  you, 
dear  brother,"  said  I  to  the  dervis,  "  are  charitable  and 
good.  Examine  into  the  wonderful  secrets  you  know,  and 
see  if  you  have  not  one  to  restore  me  to  my  sight  again." 

"Miserable  wretch,"  answered  the  dervis,  "thou  hast 
thy  deserts  !  the  blindness  of  thy  mind  was  the  cause  of 
the  loss  of  thy  eyes.  I  have  secrets,  but  none  that  can 
restore  thee  to  sight.  Pray  to  God,  if  thou  believest  there 
is  one ;  it  is  he  alone  who  can.  He  gave  thee  riches,  of 
which  thou  wert  unworthy ;  he  takes  them  from  thee 
again  ;  and  will  by  my  hands  bestow  them  upon  men  who 
are  not  so  wicked  and  so  ungrateful  as  thou  art." 

The  dervis  said  no  more,  and  1  had  nothing  to  reply. 
Being  quite  confounded,  and  plunged  into  inexpressible 
grief,  I  besought  him  to  take  pity  on  my  miserable  sit- 
uation, and  at  least  to  conduct  me  to  the  first  caravan  ; 
but  he  was  deaf  to  my  prayers  and  entreaties,  and  gath- 
ering up  my  camels,  he  drove  them  away,  leaving  me 
wretched,  poor,  and  blind. 

Thus  was  I  reduced,  by  my  own  folly  and  wickedness, 
from  a  condition  worthy  the  envy  of  princes,  to  beggary. 
I  got  to  Bagdad  by  the  charitable  assistance  of  some  trav- 
ellers, and  as  I  have  no  other  way  to  subsist,  I  ask  alms; 
but  have  enjoined  it  upon  myself,  by  way  of  penance,  to 
receive  none  which  are  not  accompanied  by  a  blow  from 
the  hand  which  bestows  them. 

When  the  blind  man  had  finished  his  story,  the  caliph 
said  to  him,  "  Baba  Abdallah  !  thy  sin  is  great;  but,  God 
be  praised,  thou  art  thyself  sensible  of  the  enormity  of  it. 
i  will  not  suffer  this  public  penance.    I  will  settle  a  charity 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  33r, 

CHr  thee  of  four  silver  drachms  a  day,  and  thou  mayest 
then  devote  the  remainder  of  thy  days  to  prayer  and 
private  repentance,  in  which  thou  canst  not  be  too  much 
in  earnest." 

Then  turning  to  the  young  man  who  had  used  his  mare 
so  barbarously,  he  demanded  of  him  the  cause  of  his  in- 
humanity, when  he  gave  the  following  account  of  himself. 

THE    STORY    OP    SIDI   NONMAN. 

My  name  is  Sidi  Nonraan.  I  succeeded  a  few  years  ago 
to  a  moderate  fortune,  the  produce  of  my  father's  industry 
and  economy.  My  desires  were  suitable  to  my  station ; 
and  I  only  wanted  a  companion  to  share  my  felicity,  and 
make  it  complete. 

In  this  hope  I  married,  some  time  since ;  and,  as  it  is 
the  custom  among  us  to  marry  without  having  seen  the 
bride,  I  thought  myself  fortunate,  when  my  wife  was 
brought  home,  to  find  her  a  very  beautiful  woman. 

But  the  very  day  after  our  wedding,  a  circumstance 
occurred  which  greatly  abated  my  joy.  When  we  sat 
down  to  dinner,  1  began  to  eat  rice  with  a  spoon  as  usual; 
but  my  wife  pulled  a  little  case  out  of  her  pocket,  and 
taking  out  a  bodkin,  she  picked  up  the  rice  grain  by  grain. 

I  was  surprised  to  see  her  eat  in  this  manner,,  and  en- 
treated her  earnestly  to  eat  as  I  did.  She  did  not  even 
condescend  to  answer  me,  but  continued  to  pick  up  the 
rice  as  she  had  begun.  I  became  angiy  •  yet  recollecting 
that  she  had  not  been  used  to  eat  with  men,  I  imputed 
her  conduct  to  modesty,  and  left  her  after  dinner  without 
showing  any  signs  of  displeasure. 

As  she  continued  this  practice,  I  became  seriously  un- 
easy at  it.  "When  she  did  not  eat  rice,  she  would  put  a 
few  crumbs  of  bread  into  her  mouth,  but  not  so  much  as 
a  sparrow  could  eat.  I  knew  it  was  impossible  for  any 
one  to  live  on  such  little  food,  and  concluding  there  must 
be  some  mystery  in  the  business,  I  determined  to  dissem- 
ble, and  while  I  seemed  to  take  no  notice  of  her  actions, 
to  watch  her  with  the  closest  attention. 

One  night  when  Amina  (that  was  her  name)  thought 


336  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

mo  fast  asleep,  she  got  out  of  bed,  dressed  herself,  and 
went  out  very  softly.  I  feigned  a  sound  sleep;  but  the 
moment  she  left  the  room,  I  hastily  slipped  on  my  clothes, 
and  followed  her  into  the  street. 

She  went  to  a  burying-place  at  the  end  of  the  town  ;  it 
was  moonlight.  I  got  to  the  end  of  the  wall,  taking  care 
not  to  be  discovered  ;  and  looking  over,  I  saw  Amina  .vith 
a  goule. 

Your  majesty,  no  doubt,  knows  that  goules  are  wander- 
ing demons,  who  generally  resort  to  deeaj-ed  buildings, 
whence  they  rush  on  people  passing  by,  kill  them,  and  eat 
their  flesh  ;  and  that  in  want  of  prey,  they  will  go  by 
night  into  the  burying-grounds,  and  feed  upon  the  dead 
bodies. 

I  was  exceedingly  shocked  to  see  my  wife  with  this 
goule.  They  dug  up  a  body  which  had  been  buried  that 
day,  and  the  goule  cutting  the  flesh  into  slices,  they  ate 
together.  I  was  too  far  off  to  hear  their  discourse,  which 
no  doubt  was  as  horrid  as  their  feast. 

I  went  home  with-  ideas  I  know  not  how  to  describe, 
and  lying  down,  when  Amina  returned  I  pretended  to 
be  fast  asleep.  She  did  not  stay  long  after  me,  and  com- 
ing to  bed  very  silently,  she  either  fell  asleep,  or  seemed 
to  do  so. 

I  was  so  struck  with  the  abominable  action  I  had  seen, 
that  it  was  with  reluctance  I  suffered  her  to  lie  by  me. 
I  arose  at  daybreak,  and  went  to  the  mosque.  After 
prayers,  finding  my  mind  greatly  agitated,  I  passed 
the  morning  in  the  gardens,  deliberating  with  myself 
how  I  ought  to  act.  I  rejected  all  violent  measures  ;  and 
resolved  that  I  would  endeavor  to  reform  her  by  gentle 
and  affectionate  expostulation. 

When  I  returned,  and  dinner  was  served,  Amina  ate  as 
usual.  The  table  being  cleared,  I  drew  near  to  her  and 
said,  "Why,  my  dear  Amina,  will  you  persist  in  despising 
my  table,  and  not  eat  your  food  with  me?  I  have 
tried  every  sort  of  dainty,  yet  you  still  refuse  to  forego 
your  contemptuous  abstinence.  Tell  me,  I  conjnre  you, 
Amina,  are  not  the  meats  served  up  at  my  tabie  better 
i.han  dead  men's  flesh  ?" 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  337 

I  had  ao  sooner  uttered  these  words  than  she  flew  in  a  rage, 
her  face,  became  distorted,  her  eyes  were  ready  to  start  from 
her  head  ;  she  even  foamed  with  passion.  Frightened  at  her 
appearance,  I  sat  immovable.  In  the  midst  of  the  most  horrid 
execrations,  she  threw  some  water  in  my  face,  and  added, 
"  Receive  the  reward  of  thy  impertinent  curiosity."  I  in- 
stantly became  a  dog. 

My  terror  and  grief  at  this  transformation  were  extreme ; 
but  my  attention  was  presently  called  to  my  safety ;  for  Amina 
presently  took  up  a  great  stick,  and  beat  me  till  she  was 
weary.  She  then  opened  the  street-door,  with  an  intent  to 
squeeze  me  between  that  and  the  wall ;  but  I  was  aware  of 
her  cruel  design ;  and  looking  earnestly  in  her  face,  I  whipped 
through  so  nimbly  as  to  escape  with,  only  the  loss  of  part  of 
my  tail. 

The  pain  I  felt  made  me  cry  out  and  howl.  This  brought 
me  a  number  of  other  dogs  about  me ;  to  avoid  them  I  took 
shelter  in  the  shop  of  a  tripe-seller.  This  man  was,  unfor- 
tunately, one  of  those  superstitious  persons  who  think  dogs 
unclean  creatures ;  and  that,  if  by  chance  one  happen  to 
touch  one  of  them,  no  washing  scarcely  is  sufficient  to  make 
one  clean  again.  While  this  man  was  driving  away  the 
other  dogs,  I  hid  myself  out  of  his  reach,  and  passed  the 
night  in  his  house,  very  much  against  his  inclination.  In- 
deed, I  stood  in  need  of  rest  to  recover  Amina's  ill-treatment 
of  me. 

In  the  morning  I  crept  out  of  my  hole,  but  soon  found, 
from  the  manners  of  my  host,  that  I  must  seek  another 
asylum.  He  drove  me  out  of  his  house  with  great  indigna- 
tion. A  few  doors  farther  there  lived  a  baker,  of  a  temper 
very  different  from  the  tripe-man.  He  was  merry  and  good- 
humored,  whereas  the  latter  was  eaten  up  with  melancholy. 
To  this  baker  I  presented  myself,  and  so  managed  that  he 
seemed  to  find  out  what  I  wanted;  for  he  not  only  fed  me, 
but  showed  me  a  place  where  to  lie,  which  I  immediately  took 
possession  of. 

My  new  master  became  very  fond  of  me ;  and  I,  on  my 
part,  showed  every  mark  of  fidelity  and  attachment.*  One 
day,  a  woman  came  into  the  shop  to  buy  some  bread,  and 

29  W 


338  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

offered  a  piece  of  bad  money  among  some  good.  Th« 
baker  refused  it ;  the  woman  insisted  it  was  good.  "  Good," 
replied  my  master;  "why,  my  very  dog  knows  better! 
Here,"  said  he,  calling  me  to  leap  on  tbe  counter,  "  tell  me 
which  of  these  pieces  of  money  is  bad."  I  looked  at  the 
several  pieces,  and  putting  my  paw  on  the  bad  piece,  sep- 
arated it  from  the  others. 

The  baker  who  never  in  the  least  thought  of  my  finding 
out  the  bad  piece,  but  only  called  me  to  banter  the  wom- 
an, was  very  much  surprised.  The  woman  also  was  in 
confusion.  My  master  related  the  story  to  his  neighbors, 
and  the  woman  to  her  acquaintance;  so  that  the  fame  of 
my  abilities  was  spread  all  over  the  city ;  and  my  master 
had  so  many  new  customers,  who  came  to  see  my  per- 
formance, that  he  owned  to  his  neighbors  I  was  a  treasure 
to  him. 

Many  people  endeavored  in  vain  to  steal  me  from  my 
friendly  master ;  but  one  morning  a  woman  who  came  to 
try  my  knowledge  of  money,  upon  pointing  out  the  piece 
that  was  bad,  said,  with  particular  point,  "Yes,  thou  art 
in  the  right  of  it ;  it  is  bad."  She  stayed  some  time  in  the 
shop,  and  made  me  a  signal,  unobserved  by  the  baker,  to 
follow  her. 

I  was  always  attentive  to  anything  which  seemed  likely 
to  lead  to  my  deliverance.  I  took  notice  of  the  woman's 
singular  behavior;  and  when  she  was  departing,  I  kept 
my  eyes  fixed  upon  her.  After  she  had  gone  a  few  steps, 
she  turned  about  and  again  made  me  a  sign  to  go  with  her. 

I  hesitated  no  longer ;  but  observing  my  master  was 
busy,  I  jumped  off  the  counter,  and  followed  her.  She 
seemed  overjoyed,  and  after  we  had  gone  a  little  way.  she 
opened  a  door,  and  calling  me,  said,  "Thou  wilt  not  repent 
thy  coming  with  me." 

She  carried  me  into  a  chamber  where  there  was  a  young 
lady,  working  embroidery.  "  Daughter,"  said  she,  "I  have 
brought  the  bakef's  famous  dog  that  can  distinguish  money. 
Am  I  rightin  my  conjecture  that  it  is  a  man  transformed  into 
this  animal  ?"  "  You  are  right,  mother,"  replied  the  lady, 
Then  rising  up,  she  threw  some  water  over  me,  s.ijnng,  "  1/ 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  339 

thou  wast  created  a  dog,  remain  so ;  but  if  thou  wert  a 
man,  resume  thy  former  shape."  At  that  instant  the 
enchantment  was  at  an  end,  and  I  became  a  man  as  before 

I  returned  proper  acknowledgments  to  the  two  ladies 
to  whom  I  owed  my  deliverance ;  and  at  their  desire  iso- 
lated the  circumstances  that  led  to  my  transformation. 
"I  know  Amina  well,"  said  the  young  lady;  "we  both 
learned  magic  under  the  same  mistress.  But  our  tempers 
are  different,  and  we  have  avoided  each  other.  I  am  not 
at  all  surprised  at  her  wickedness,  and  will  enable  you  to 
punish  her  as  she  deserves." 

My  benefactress  withdrew  to  consult  her  books;  and 
presently  returned  with  a  little  bottle  in  her  hand.  "Sidi 
JNTonman,"  said  she,  "  y our  wife  is  now  abroad,  but  will 
return  speedily  ;  take  this  little  bottle,  and  go  home  im- 
mediately. When  she  comes  home,  meet  her  abruptly. 
She  will  then  turn  back  to -run  awaj^.  Be  sure  to  have 
this  bottle  ready,  and  throw  some  liquor  it  contains  upon 
her,  saying,  boldly,  'Eeceive  the  chastisement  of  thy 
wickedness.'  I  will  tell  you  no  more,  you  will  see  the 
effect." 

After  repeating  my  thanks  to  my  deliverers,  I  went 
home.  Amina  was  not  long  before  she  returned  also.  I 
met  her  in  the  yard.  As  soon  as  she  saw  me  she  shrieked, 
and  turned  to  run  away.  I  pursued  the  directions  I  had 
received,  and  she  became  the  mare  your  majesty  saw  me 
upon  yesterday.  I  seized  her  and  led  her  into  a  stable, 
where  I  tied  her  to  a  manger,  and  whipped  her  till  I  was 
weary,  reproaching  her  all  the  while  with  her  enormities. 
Since  then  I  have  punished  her  every  day  in  the  mannei 
your  majesty  saw  ;  and  I  hope  you  will  think  I  have  not 
dealt  too  severely  by  so  very  wicked  a  woman. 

"  I  do  not  absolutely  condemn  thy  severity,"  replied 
the  caliph;  "thou  hast  certainty  received  great  provoca- 
tion ;  but  surely  it  is  severe  punishment  to  be  reduced 
into  the  number  of  beasts,  and  I  would  have  thee  be  con- 
tent with  that  chastisement  which  I  do  not  desire  should 
be  done  away,  lest  thou  shouldst  be  exposed  to  more  mift 
chief  from  thy  wife's  revenge." 


£4)  AKABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

The  caliph  then  turned  himself  to  the  third  person  wbo 
had  been  summoned.  "  Cogia  Hassan,"  said  he,  "passing 
by  thy  house  yesterday,  I  was  induced,  by  its  handsome 
appearance,  to  inquire  after  the  owner.  I  was  informed, 
that  not  long  since  thou  wast  very  poor,  and  couldst  scarce 
get  bread  for  thy  family;  yet  thou  hast  since  built  that 
palace,  and  livest  plenteously.  Thy  neighbors  also  speak 
well  of  thee,  as  thou  makest  a  good  use  of  thy  wealth. 

"All  this  pleases  me;  but  I  am  persuaded  that  thou  hast 
obtained  riches  in  an  unusual  manner;  I  am  curious  to 
know  how  thou  hast  become  wealthy  ;  speak  the  truth, 
that,  when  I  know  thy  story.  I  may  rejoice  with  thee." 

Cogia  Hassan  paid  the  usual  homage  to  the  caliph,  and 
thus  obeyed  his  commands. 

THE    STORY    OF     COGIA    HASSAN    ALHABBAL. 

It  is  necessary,  before  I  say  anything  to  your  majesty 
of  my  own  affairs,  to  acquaint  you  that  there  are  now  liv- 
ing in  Bagdad  two  intimate  friends,  whose  manners  are 
much  alike,  though  their  fortunes  vary:  Saadi  being  very 
rich,  while  Saad  enjoys  with  content  a  moderate  com- 
petence. 

These  persons  had  long  debated  on  the  different  degrees 
in  life,  and  the  means  of  man's  advancement  in  it.  Saadi 
asserted  that,  setting  idleness  and  vice  out  of  the  question, 
any  man  possessing  a  moderate  sum  of  money  to  begin  the 
world  with,  must  infallibly  grow  rich.  While  Saad  con- 
tended that  accident  often  prevented,  and  often  promoted, 
the  success  of  human  affairs. 

As  they  had  frequently  canvassed  this  matter  over, 
Saadi  put  two  hundred  pieces  of  gold  in  a  bag,  and  said  to 
his  friend,  "  I  have  resolved  to  try  an  experiment,  whether 
my  opinion  is  not  well  founded.  We  will  find  out  some 
honest,  diligent  artisan,  who  is  poor.  I  will  give  him 
this  sum  to  set  him  forward ;  and  I  doubt  not  a  few  months 
will  prove  the  truth  of  this  remark." 

I  was  the  fortunate  man  with  whom  trial  was  agreed 
to  be  made.  The  friends  came  to  me  while  I  was  busy  in 
my   paternal    occupation    of  rope-making.     My   diligent 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  341 

attention  to  labor  had  been  often  remarked  by  them  in  the 
course  of  their  dispute ;  and  my  poverty  was  apparent 
enough. 

Saadi  questioned  me  on  the  cause  of  my  needy  appear- 
ance. "You  are  always  at  work,"  said  he,  "yet  your 
circumstances  do  not  seem  to  improve!"  "Alas,  sir,'' 
replied  I, "  let  me  work  as  hard  as  I  will,  I  can  hardly  buy 
bread  and  pulse  for  my  family.  I  have  a  wife  and  five 
children  whom  I  must  feed  and  clothe ;  and  in  our  poor 
way  they  still  want  a  thousand  necessaries  which  my 
labor  will  not  supply.  It  is  enough  if  we  are  content  with 
the  little  God  sends  us;  satisfied  to  live  in  the  way  we 
have  been  bred  up,  and  thankful  that  we  have  no  occasion 
to  ask  charity." 

"But,"  said  Saadi,  "if  I  was  to  give  you  two  hundred 
pieces  of  gold,  do  you  think  that  with  such  a  sum  you 
could  get  forward  in  the  world?"  "You  do  not  look, 
sir,"  replied  I,  "  as  if  you  meant  to  banter  me  ;  I  therefore 
answer,  seriously,  that  such  a  sum  would,  in  a  short  time, 
make  me  richer  than  any  man  of  my  profession  in  Bag- 
dad." The  generous  Saadi  soon  convinced  me  that  he  was 
in  earnest,  for,  putting  the  purse  into  my  hand,  he  said, 
"Here  is  the  sum  I  mentioned;  take  it,  and  I  pray  God 
to  bless  you  with  it.  All  the  return  I  desire  is  to  see  you 
make  a  good  use  of  it,  and  that  we  may  have  the  pleasure 
to  find  it  has  contributed  to  make  you  happier  than  you 
are  now." 

I  was  transported  with  joy  at  this  unexpected  event, 
and  scai'ce  knew  how  to  express  my  gratitude.  The  two 
friends,  having  repeated  their  good  advice,  left  me  ;  and 
I  began  to  consider  where  I  should  bestow  my  treasure, 
having  neither  box  nor  cupboard  to  lock  it  up  in.  I  had 
been  used,  as  most  poor  people  do,  when  I  had  a  little 
money,  to  put  it  in  the  foldings  of  my  turban.  T  resolved 
to  do  so  with  this  large  sum  ;  first  taking  out  ten  pieces  for 
present  necessaries. 

I  then  went  and  bought  some  hemp  ;  and  as  my  family 
had  eaten  no  fresh  meat  for  a  long  time,  I  went  to  the 
shambles  an  1  bought  some  for  supper.     As  I  was  carrying 

2  9  * 


342  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

my  meat  home  on  my  head,  a  famished  kite  flew  at  it. 
and  would  have  snatched  it  from  me.  In  the  struggle  it 
fell  from  my  head,  yet  I  still  k«pt  hold  of  it.  But  my 
turban  falling  off,  and  some  pieces  of  meat  sticking  to  it, 
the  kite  made  a  stoop  at  that,  and  catching  it  up,  flew 
away  with  it. 

My  sorrow  for  this  loss  was  inconceivable.  I  had  in- 
deed laid  out  part  of  the  ten  pieces  in  hemp;  yet  a  great 
part  of  what  was  left  went  to  buy  a  new  turban.  My 
hopes  were  all  at  an  end.  But  I  can  truly  say,  that  my 
greatest  concern  was  that  I  should  be  obliged  to  give  my 
benefactor  so  bad  an  account  of  his  liberal  donation. 

While  the  remainder  of  the  ten  pieces  lasted,  my  little 
family  and  I  fared  the  better  for  it;  but  we  soon  returned 
to  our  usual  poverty.  I  d;d  not,  however,  repine.  "  God," 
said  I,  "  was  pleased  to  give  me  riches  when  I  least  ex- 
pected them ;  and  has  thought  fit  to  take  them  away  from 
me  again.  I  will  praise  his  name  for  the  benefits  I  have 
received,  and  submit  myself  entirely  to  his  will." 

In  about  six  months,  as  I  was  at  work,  I  saw  the  two 
friends  coming  toward  me,  and  heard  Saad  say,  "I  see  no 
difference  in  the  appearance  of  Hassan  Alhabbal,  but  that 
he  hath  got  a  new  turban.  I  doubt  you  will  not  find  his 
affairs  much  mended." 

By  this  time  they  were  come  so  near,  that  Saadi,  in- 
stead of  answering  his  friend,  saluted  me.  "Well,  Has- 
san," said  he,  "we  do  not  ask  you  how  your  affairs  go 
since  we  saw  you;  no  doubt  they  carry  a  better  face." 

"Gentlemen,"  replied  I,  "I  have  the  mortification  to 
tell  you,  that  your  bounty  to  me  has  not  prospered  in  my 
hands.  I  can  scarce  expect  you  will  believe  the  cause  :£ 
your  disappointment.  I  assure  you,  nevertheless,  on  the 
word  of  an  honest  man,  that  what  I  am  about  to  tell  you  is 
exactly  true."    I  then  related  to  them  what  had  happened. 

Saadi  heard  my  account  with  incredulity  and  impatience. 
'•  What  a  fable  have  you  invented.  Hassan,"  replied  he, 
indignantly.  "  Kites  are  birds  of  piey,  who  seek  only  the 
means  of  gratifying  their  hunger.  Who  ever  heard  of 
rhoir  peizin»- turbans  ?     You  have  done  as  other  idle  fel- 


AHABIAN    NIGHTS      ENTERTAINMENTS.  343 

lows  do;  having  unexpectedly  obtained  a  sum  of  money, 
you  have  neglected  your  affairs,  and  squandered  it  in 
gratifying  your  appetites."  The  manner  in  which  1  bore 
these  reproaches  convinced  Saad  that  I  did  not  deserve 
them.  He  took  my  part  warmly,  and  with  so  much  suc- 
cess, that  Saadi  consented  to  renew  his  experiment,  and 
to  give  me  two  hundred  pieces  of  gold  again. 

When  the  friends  left  me,  I  went  home  rejoicing.  Find- 
ing neither  my  wife  nor  children  at  home,  I  separated  ten 
pieces  from  the  two  hundred,  and  tied  up  the  remainder 
in  a  clean  linen  cloth;  but  was  at  a  loss  where  to  place  it 
that  it  might  be  safe.  At  last  I  cast  my  eyes  on  a  large 
jar,  which  stood  in  a  corner,  full  of  bran.  Amidst  this 
bran,  which  we  seldom  used,  I  deposited  my  treasure,  and 
having  but  little  hemp  in  the  house,  I  went  out  to  buy  some. 

While  I  was  gone,  my  wife  returned.  It  chanced  that 
a  sand-man  passed  by,  and,  as  we  wanted  sand,  and  my 
wife  had  no  money  to  buy  any,  she  struck  a  bargain  with 
the  sand-man  to  barter  away  the  jar  of  bran  for  a  supply 
of  his  sand,  and  accordingly  delivered  it  to  him,  with  the 
hundred  and  ninety  pieces  of  gold  at  the  bottom  of  it. 

Soon  after  I  returned  laden  with  hemp,  and  in  high 
spirits  for  this  second  unexpected  good-fortune.  But  my 
joy  was  soon  at  an  end  when  I  missed  the  jar  of  bran.  I 
hastily  asked  what  was  become  of  it,  and  soon  learnt  that 
by  an  unaccountable  accident,  which  I  could  neither  fore- 
see nor  prevent,  my  hopes  of  fortune  were  again  destroyed. 

But  I  was  obliged  to. forget  my  own  sorrow  for  a  time, 
to  support  my  wife  who  was  inconsolable.  Women  are 
often  eloquent  in  their  grief.  Her  lamentations  were 
excessive.  I  represented  to  her  that  it  was  better  to  bear 
our  loss  patiently,  than  by  clamorously  lamenting  it  to 
excite  the  ridicule  rather  than  the  pity  of  our  neighbors. 
"It  is  true,"  continued  I,  "we  have  twice  had  the  means 
of  becoming  rich  in  our  power,  and  each  time  have  lost 
them  by  extraordinary  chances.  But  though  we  are  poor, 
do  we  not  breathe  the  same  air,  and  enjoy  the  same  light 
and  warmth  as  the  wealthy?  If  our  means  are  still  sien- 
der,  iet  our  wishes  continue  moderate,  and  then  the  differ- 


314  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ence  between  poor  and  rich  is  but  inconsiderable ;  espe- 
cially if  we  live  as  we  ought  to,  in  tbe  fear  of  God.''  By 
these  arguments  I  pacified  my  wife,  and  returning  cheer- 
fully to  my  labor,  I  very  soon  recovered  my  spirits. 

A  considerable  time  afterward,  as  1  was  at  work,  I  saw 
the  two  friends  coming  toward  me.  I  was  covered  with 
confusion,  and  was  about  to  run  away  and  hide  myself; 
but  recollecting  that  such  a  conduct  would  imply  guilt, 
and  though  I  was  unfortunate  I  was  not  criminal,  I  de- 
termined to  face  their  reproaches. 

When  they  came  up  to  me,  I  directly  told  them  the 
particulars  of  my  last  misfortune,  and  that  I  was  as  poor 
as  ever.  I  added,  "  I  see  it  has  pleased  God  that  I  am  not 
to  be  enriched  by  your  bounty.  I  am  born  to  poverty; 
but  my  obligation  to  you  is  as  great  as  if  your  generous 
intentions  had  taken  place." 

Saadi  heard  me  out,  and  answered  with  good-humor, 
'  Though  all  you  tell  us,  Hassan,  may  be  true,  and  our 
disappointment  may  not  be  owing  to  your  idleness  or 
extravagance,  yet  I  shall  pursue  this  experiment  no  fur- 
ther. I  do  not  regret  having  given  you  four  hundred 
pieces  of  gold  to  raise  you  in  the  world ;  I  am  only  sorry 
I  did  not  meet  with  some  other  man  who  might  have  made 
a  better  use  of  my  charity.  You  see,"  said  he,  turning  to 
Saad,  "  I  do  not  give  up  my  argument.  It  is  now  your 
turn  to  try.  Let  Hassan  be  the  man  ;  and  see  if  without 
giving  him  money  you  can  mend  his  fortune."  Saad 
smiled,  and  having  in  his  hand  a  piece  of  lead,  which  he 
had  picked  up  in  his  walk,  he  gave  it  to  me,  saying,  "Here, 
Hassan,  take  this ;  and  see  if  one  day  you  will  not  give 
me  a  good  account  of  it."  Saadi  laughed  at  his  friend  ; 
and.  indeed,  I  thought  he  was  in  jest.  However,  I  took 
the  lead  and  thanked  him,  and  put  it  in  my  pocket.  The 
gentlemen  pursued  their  walk,  and  I  returned  to  my  work. 

When  I  was  going  to  rest,  the  piece  of  lead,  which  I 
had  never  thought  of  from  the  time  I  received  it,  fell  out 
of  my  pocket.  I  took  it  up  and  put  it  on  the  shelf.  The 
same  night  it  happened  that  a  fisherman,  who  lived  just, 
by.  was  mending  his  nets,  and  found  a  piece  of  lead  was 


ARABIAN    NIGIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  345 

missing  ;  it  was  too  lato  to  buy  any,  and  he  must  either 
fish  that  night,  or  his  family  go  without  bread  next  day 
In  this  necessity  he  sent  his  wife  to  beg  a  bit  of  lead  of 
any  of  his  neighbors ;  but,  as  it  was  late,  and  everybody 
in  bed,  some  called  out  that  they  had  none,  others  scolding 
her  for  disturbing  them,  and  many  would  give  no  answer 
at  all.  The  poor  woman  began  to  despair  of  success,  when 
coming  to  my  door,  she  thought  she  would  try  once  more. 

She  knocked  accordingly,  and  called  out  for  what  she 
wanted.  I  was  in  a  sound  sleep  when  she  came;  but  when 
I  awoke,  I  recollected  the  piece  of  lead  which  Saad  had 
given  me ;  I  arose  and  gave  it  to  her.  The  fisherman's 
wife  was  so  overjoyed,  that  she  promised  we  should  have 
the  first  cast  of  the  net;  and  when  she  told  her  husband 
what  had  befallen  her,  he  mixch  approved  her  promise. 

At  his  first  throw  he  caught  only  one  large  fish,  which 
he  put  by  for  me,  and  on  his  return  gave  it  to  me  accord- 
ing to  his  wife's  pi'omise.  I  accepted  my  neighbor's  pres- 
ent very  thankfully,  and  carrying  it  home,  told  my  wife 
how  I  came  by  it.  "  It  will  be  all,"  said  I,  "that  we  can 
expect  from  Saad's  lead." 

In  gutting  the  fish,  my  wife  found  a  large  diamond, 
which  she  supposed  was  a  piece  of  glass.  She  washed  it, 
and  gave  it  to  the  children  for  a  plaything.  At  night, 
when  the  lamp  was  lighted,  the  reflection  of  the  light 
upon  the  diamond  was  so  beautiful,  that  they  were  ready 
to  scramble  for  it,  all  making  a  violent  noise. 

There  lived  next  door  to  me  a  very  rich  Jew,  who  was 
a  jeweller.  The  noise  the  children  had  made  paving  dis- 
turbed him,  his  wife  came  next  day  to  complain  of  it.  My 
wife  told  her  the  cause  of  the  clamor,  and,  reaching  the 
diamond  from  the  chimney,  showed  her  the  piece  of  glass, 
as  she  called  it,  which  she  had  found  in  the  belly  of  the 
fish,  and  which  the  children  fell  out  about. 

The  Jewess  immediately  knew  it  was  a  diamond  of  very 
great  value.  She  looked  at  it  for  some  time,  and  then  re- 
turning  it  to  my  wife,  said,  coolly,  "It  is  a  pretty  piece 
of  glass  enough:  I  have  got  just  such  another;  and  as 
they  will  match  together,  if  yon  will  sell   me  yours.   T  wil. 


346  AkABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTb. 

give  you  a  trifle  for  it."  The  children  hearing  this,  began 
to  entreat  their  mother  not  to  sell  their  plaything;  and  to 
quiet  them,  she  promised  she  would  not.  The  Jewess 
being  thus  disappointed,  took  her  leave;  but  first  whis- 
pered to  my  wife  the  desire,  if  it  was  sold,  she  might  be 
the  purchaser. 

The  Jewess  hastened  to  her  husband,  who  was  at  his 
shop,  and  told  him  what  had  happened.  She  gave  him 
such  an  account  of  the  diamond,  that  he  sent  her  back 
directly,  with  orders  to  offer  a  small  sum  at  first  for  it, 
and  so  rise  by  degrees  ;  but  by  no  means  to  come  away 
without  it. 

My  wife  was  surprised  to  see  the  Jewess  come  again  to 
our  house,  for,  as  they  were  rich  and  we  poor,  they  had 
always  held  us  in  contempt.  She  came  now  in  a  very 
familiar  manner,  and,  after  talking  of  other  things,  she 
carelessly  offered  twenty  pieces  of  gold  for  the  piece  of 
glass.  The  sum  appeared  to  my  wife  so  considerable,  that 
she  told  her  she  could  not  part  with  it  without  consult- 
ing me. 

When  I  came  home  to  dinner,  while  my  wife  was  giving 
this  account,  the  Jewess  entered,  and  repeated  her  offer 
to  me.  It  struck  me  that  Saad  had  given  me  that  piece 
of  lead  to  make  my  fortune,  and  as  I  was  revolving  this 
in  my  mind,  I  did  not  answer  immediately ;  on  which  the 
Jewess  said,  "  If  that  won't  do,  I  will  give  you  fifty." 

She  was  unguarded  for  one  moment,  and  that  was 
enough,  for  I  told  her  I  knew  it  was  a  jewel,  and  of  great 
value.  She  laughed  at  me ;  yet  continued  advancing  in 
price,  till,  by  degrees,  she  had  offered  me  fifty  thousand 
pieces  of  gold.  I  then  told  her  I  would  have  a  hundred 
thousand  pieces  for  it;  on  which  she  gave  up  the  matter, 
and  we  parted. 

In  the  evening  her  husband  came,  and  desired  to  see  my 
diamond,  as  he  readily  called  it.  Having  examined  it,  he 
offered  me  seventy  thousand  pieces;  after  much  cavilling 
he  came  up  to  my  price,  and  paid  me  one  hundred  thou- 
sand pieces  of  gold,  on  my  delivering  him  the  diamor.d. 

Being  thu^  enriched  beyond  my  imagination,  I  deter- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  347 

mined  not  to  live  a  life  of  idleness.  I  took  large  ware- 
houses, and  engaged  a  number  of  workmen  in  my  own 
business ;  and  by  diligence  and  punctuality  I  am  become 
the  most  considerable  merchant  in  my  line. 

I  never  forgot  how  much  I  owed  to  Saad  and  Saadi.  1 
would  have  gone  and  thrown  myself  at  their  feet,  if  I  had 
known  where  they  lived;  but  1  heard  nothing  of  them  for 
a  long  time.  At  length  the  two  friends,  walking  near  my 
old  habitation,  recollected  me,  and  determined  to  inquire 
wbat  had  become  of  me.  They  were  surprised  to  hear 
that  I  now  was  a  great  merchant,  had  built  a  large  palace, 
and  was  no  longer  Hassan  Alhabbal,  or  Hassan  the  rope- 
maker;  but  Cogia  Hassan,  or  Merchant  Hassan. 

They  set  out  immediately  for  my  house,  and  as  they 
walked,  Saadi  said,  "  I  am  overjoyed  that  I  have  raised 
Hassan's  fortune,  but  cannot  forgive  the  two  lies  he  told 
me,  by  which  he  obtained  four  hundred  pieces  instead  of 
two;  for  neither  I  nor  any  one  can  imagine  he  has  got 
rich  by  any  other  means."     Saad  smiled  and  was  silent. 

When  they  arrived  at  my  house,  the  grandeur  of  it 
struck  them  so  much  that  they  could  scarcely  believe  it 
belonged  to  the  same  Hassan  they  had  lately  known  in 
such  extreme  poverty.  As  soon  as  I  saw  them,  I  rose 
and  ran  to  meet  them,  and  would  have  kissed  the  hem  of 
their  garmeuts  if  they  would  have  permitted  me.  They 
congratulated  me  on  my  good  fortune  ;  on  my  part  I  re- 
ceived them  with  the  sincerest  joy,  assuring  them  that  I 
had  not  forgotten  that  I  had  been  Hassan  Alhabbal,  or 
the  obligations  I  owed  them. 

After  they  had  sat  down,  Saadi  said,  "  I  am  very  glad, 
Cogia  Hassan,  to  see  you  in  this  flourishing  situation.  I 
have  no  doubt  but  that  you  have  judiciously  managed  the 
four  hundred  pieces  of  gold  you  received  from  me;  but  it 
vexes  me  that  you  should  have  invented  two  such  incred- 
ible tales,  when  the  truth  would  have  done  you  so  much 
more  honor." 

In  answer  to  this  charge  I  related  the  manner  in  which 
1  had  obtained  my  wealth.  Saad  rejoiced  exceedingly  in 
the    adventure;    but   Saadi  was   not   so   soon  convinced. 


348  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

"  This  story,"  said  he,  "of  the  fish  and  the  diamond  found 
in  his  belly,  is  more  unlikely  than  those  of  the  kite  and 
turban,  or  the  jar  of  bran  ;  be  it  as  it  may,  I  am  glad, 
Cogia  Hassan,  that  you  are  no  longer  poor,  and  that  I  am 
the  cause  of  your  good  fortune."  As  I  found  it  was  in 
vain  to  combat  any  further  the  prejudices  of  Saadi,  I  con- 
tented myself  with  giving  him  a  general  answer  expressive 
of  my  gratitude  to  them  both;  and  desiring  they  would 
pass  the  evening  with  me,  and  go  the  next  day  to  my 
country  house,  which  was  not  far  from  Bagdad,  to  which 
they  agreed. 

We  arrived  there  next  morning,  and,  walking  in  the 
garden,  we  met  my  two  sons  and  their  tutor.  It  was  the 
hour  of  their  amusement,  and  the  lads  having  found  out  a 
large  bird's-nest  the  day  before,  had  prevailed  upon  a  slave 
to  climb  the  tree  and  get  it  for  them.  He  came  down 
with  it  just  as  we  arrived. 

On  examining  the  nest  we  found  it  was  built  in  a  turban. 
The  circumstance  excited  all  our  attention,  and  we  sur- 
veyed it  closely ;  when  I  soon  knew  it  to  be  the  same  tur- 
ban the  kite  had  snatched  from  me.  I  pointed  out  to  my 
guests  the  impossibility  of  any  human  hand  having  formed 
such  a  nest,  and  the  apparent  certainty  that  the  turban 
must  have  lain  in  the  tree  a  considerable  time.  I  then 
ordered  my  slave  to  pull  it  to  pieces;  and  in  it  we  found 
the  hundred  and  ninety  pieces  of  gold  in  the  same  bag  in 
which  Saadi  had  given  them  to  me. 

My  benefactor  could  not  dispute  so  manifest  a  truth. 
"I  am  convinced,"  said  he,  "that  you  did  lose  the  first  sum 
I  gave  you,  and  entirely  acquit  you  of  having  obtained  by 
fraud  a  second  supply  ;  but  that  you  lost  the  last  sum  in  a 
jar  of  bran,  I  cannot  help  doubting  still.  That  money,  I 
am  yet  inclined  to  think,  was  the  first  step  to  your  present- 
opulence."  I  had  too  much  gratitude  to  contest  with 
Saadi ;  I  contented  myself  with  joking  with  him  on  his 
incredulity,  and  we  pursued  our  amusements. 

In  the  evening  we  returned  to  Bagdad  ;  and  putting  up 
our  horses,  we  continued  in  the  stable  to  see  them  fed. 
By  the  negligence  of  my  servants,  we  were  out  of  oats 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  349 

and  the  stoi*ehouses  being  all  shut,  I  sent  a  slave  to  a 
neighboring-  shop  to  buy  some  bran.  He  returned  with  a 
jar,  which  he  emptied  before  us.  Saadi  perceiving  some- 
thing bulky  to  fall  out  with  the  bran,  stooped  to  pick  it 
up.  It  was  a  linen  cloth  —  heavy,  and  tied  very  tight. 
Before  he  opened  it,  I  recollected  it;  and  told  him  Provi- 
dence would  not  suffer  us  to  part,  till  he  was  full}7  con- 
vinced of  my  integrity.  We  found  in  it  the  other  hundred 
and  ninety  pieces  I  had  lost. 

Saadi  embraced  me,  and  acknowledged  himself  over- 
come. We  agreed  to  give  the  two  sums,  so  opportunely 
recovered,  to  the  poor.  I  am  rejoiced  to  finish  my  story 
by  adding,  that  Saadi  and  Saad  received  me  into  their 
friendship,  which  is  one  of  the  greatest  felicities  of  my 
present  situation. 

The  caliph  listened  to  this  narrative  with  attention. 
When  it  was  finished,  he  said,  "  Cogia  Hassan,  I  have  not 
a  long  time  heard  anything  that  has  given  me  more  pleas- 
ure than  this  account  of  the  wonderful  manner  in  which 
God  has  given  thee  riches.  Continue  to  return  him  thanks 
by  the  good  use  thou  makest  of  his  blessings.  The  dia- 
mond which  made  thy  fortune  is  in  my  treasury.  Take 
thy  friends  there,  and  I  will  order  my  treasurer  to  show 
it  to  them.  Eelate  also  thy  story  again  to  him,  that  he 
may  put  it  in  writing,  and  keep  it  with  the  diamond." 

The  caliph  then  dismissed  Cogia  Hassan,  Sidi  Nonman, 
and  Baba  Abdallah;  who,  having  taken  leave  by  the  cus- 
tomary salutations,  retired. 

THE    STORY   OP   ALI   BABA,    AND    THE    FORTY   THIEVES. 

In  a  town  in  Persia  there  lived  two  brothers,  called 
Cassim  and  Ali  Baba.  Their  father  had  left  the  little  sub- 
stance he  had  between  them;  but  they  were  not  equally 
fortunate.  Cassim  married  a  wife  who  had  a  large  for- 
tune ;  and  became  a  wealthy  and  considerable  merchant. 
Ali  Baba  married  a  woman  as  poor  as  himself.  His  whole 
substance  consisted  of  three  asses,  which  he  used  to  drive 
to  a  neighboring  forest,  and  loaded  with  wood,  which  he 
30 


350  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

sold  ic  the  town,  earning  thereby  a  hard  maintenance  for 
his  family. 

One  day,  when  Ali  Baba  was  in  the  forest,  and  had  just 
cut  wood  enough  to  load  bis  asses,  be  sawT  at  a  distance  a 
cloud  of  dust  which  seemed  to-upproach  toward  him.  He 
observed  it  attentively,  and  distinguished  a  large  body  of 
horsemen.  As  they  drew  near,  be  began  to  apprehend  they 
migbt  be  thieves  ;  he  therefore  climbed  a  tree,  from  whence 
he  could  see  all  that  passed,  without  being  discovered. 

The  troop  came  directly  to  the  spot  where  Ali  Baba  had 
taken  shelter.  He  counted  forty  of  them.  They  dismount- 
ed, and  fed  their  horses  ;  then  taking  off  their  portman- 
teaus, they  arranged  themselves  under  the  conduct  of  one 
who  seemed  to  be  their  commander.  They  were  in  fact  a 
gang  of  banditti  who  made  that  place  their  rendezvous. 
The  captain,  traversing  amongthe  shrubs,  said,  "  Sesame, " 
(which  is  a  kind  of  corn,)  "  open  !  "  Immediately  a  door 
opened  in  an  adjoining  rock  —  when  the  captain  and  his 
troop  went  in,  and  the  door  shut  again. 

The  thieves  stayed  some  time  within  the  rock ;  and  Ali 
Baba,  wTho  feared  he  should  be  surprised  if  he  attempted 
to  escape,  sat  very  patiently  in  the  tree  till  they  came  out 
again.  The  captain  came  out  first,  and  stood  at  the  door 
till  they  had  all  passed  him,  when  he  said,  "  Shut,  Sesame!  " 
The  door  closed  immediately.  Every  man  then  mounted 
his  horse;  and  the  captain  putting  himself  at  their  head, 
they  rode  off  together. 

Ali  Baba  stayed  in  the  tree  as  long  as  he  could  see  the 
least  trace  of  the  dust  they  raised.  He  then  descended, 
and  presently  found  out  the  door,  and,  remembering  the 
words  the  captain  had  used,  he  said,  "Open,  Sesame  1" 
when  the  door  flew  wide  open.  He  entered  the  cavern, 
which  he  found  spacious,  and  well  lighted  from  the  top  of 
the  rock.  The  door  shut  after  him ;  but  as  he  knew  how 
to  open  it,  he  was  noways  alarmed.  He  found  in  the 
cavern  a  great  store  of  rich  merchandise,  and  such  a.n 
immense  quantity  of  gold  and  silver,  as  convinced  him 
that  the  cavern  must  have  been  the  repository  of  robbers 
for  several  generations 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS.  351 

He  removed  as  many  bags  of  gold  close  to  the  door,  aa 
he  thought  his  three  asses  could  carry  ;  then  pronouncing 
the  spell,  the  door  opened,  and  he  loaded  them,  covering 
his  treasure  with  a  few  green  boughs.  When  he  got  home, 
he  drove  his  asses  into  a  little  yard,  and,  removing  the 
boughs,  he  carried  the  bags  into  his  house. 

When  Ali  Baba's  wife  found  the  bags  were  full  of  money, 
she  was  alarmed,  fearing  lest  their  poverty  should  have 
betrayed  him  to  rob  somebody.  He  pacified  her  by  re- 
lating the  story  of  his  good-fortune.  He  then  emptied 
the  bags  on  the  floor,  which  raised  such  a  heap  of  gold  as 
delighted  her.  Ali  Baba  charged  her  to  be  prudent  and 
secret.  He  resolved  to  bury  most  of  his  treasure,  and  to 
emerge  from  his  apparent  poverty  by  degrees;  but  his 
wife  disappointed  his  prudent  purpose.  In  the  playful- 
ness of  her  fancy,  she  would  count  the  gold  ;  but  finding 
that  business  likely  to  be  very  tedious,  resolved  to  measure 
it.  She  went  therefore  to  Cassim's  house,  who  lived  just 
by,  to  borrow  a  small  measure. 

Cassim's  wife  was  curious  to  know  what  sort  of  corn 
Ali  Baba  had  got.  She  went  to  another  room  to  fetch  the 
measure,  and  before  she  brought  it  to  her,  she  rubbed  the 
bottom  all  over  with  suet.  Ali  Baba's  wife  went  home, 
and  filled  the  measure  so  often  with  the  gold,  that  she  was 
very  much  pleased  with  the  amount.  When  she  had  done, 
she  carried  back  the  measure,  and  delivered  it  to  the  wife 
of  Cassim,  without  observing  a  piece  of  gold  which  stuck 
to  the  bottom  of  it. 

When  Cassim's  wife  saw  the  piece  of  gold,  her  heart 
sunk  within  her.  "  What ! "  exclaimed  she,  "  has  Ali  Baba 
money  so  plenty  as  to  measure  it  ?  he  whom  we  have 
always  despised  for  his  poverty!  how  has  he  obtained  his 
wealth?  will  he  not  now  retort  our  contempt,  and  out- 
figure  us?"  She  tormented  herself  with  these  reflections 
till  her  husband  came  home,  to  whom  she  related  the 
story,  and  produced  the  measure  with  the  piece  of  gold. 

Cassim  joined  his  wife  in  her  narrow  and  envious  ideas. 
Instead  of  rejoicing  at  his  brother's  change  of  fortune,  he 
now  as   unjustly  hated   him,  as   he   had   before   cruelly 


352  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

neglected  and  despised  him.  After  passing  the  night  in 
that  uneasiness  which  base  passions  ever  excite,  he  arose 
early  in  the  morning  and  went  to  Ali  Baba.  "  Brother," 
said  he,  "you  are  very  reserved  in  your  affairs.  You  pre- 
tend to  be  miserably  poor,  yet  have  gold  in  such  abun- 
dance that  j^ou  measure  it  I  "  He  then  showed  him  the 
piece  of  gold  sticking  at  the  bottom  of  the  measure. 

Ali  Baba  saw  it  was  impossible  to  keep  his  secret  from 
his  brother ;  he  therefore  frankly  related  his  adventure  to 
him,  and  offered  him  half  the  gold  to  conceal  it.  "No!" 
replied  Cassim,  haughtily,  "  I  will  know,  where  this  treas- 
ure is,  and  the  means  of  coming  at  it,  that  I  may  go  to 
it  when  I  please  ;  if  you  do  not  agree  to  this,  I  will  inform 
the  magistrate  of  the  affair;  when  you  will  be  well  off 
if  you  escape  with  the  loss  of  your  newly-gotten  wealth." 
Ali  Baba  knew  this  would  be  the  case  if  Cassim  informed 
against  him  ;  he  therefore  complied  without  murmuring ; 
described  the  spot  to  his  brother  very  exactly,  and  told 
him  the  words  he  must  use  to  gain  admission. 

Cassim  having  obtained  this  information,  prepared  to 
avail  himself  of  it  with  great  diligence.  He  purchased 
ten  mules,  and  had  large  panniers  made  to  fit  them  ex- 
actly ;  and  the  next  morning  he  set  off  before  daybreak, 
resolving  to  be  beforehand  with  his  brother,  and  to  secure 
all  the  treasure  to  himself.  He  readily  found  the  rock 
and  the  door;  and  when  he  had  pronounced  the  words, 
"  Open,  Sesame,"  the  door  flew  open,  and  he  entered  the 
cavern.  He  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find  the  riches  in 
it  exceed  his  most  sanguine  expectation.  He  spent  some 
time  in  feasting  his  eyes  with  the  treasure ;  after  which 
he  removed  as  many  bags  of  gold  to  the  door  as  he 
thought  his  mules  could  carry,  and  regretted  that  he  had 
not  brought  a  larger  number;  but  when  he  wished  to  open 
the  cavern,  his  thoughts  were  so  full  of  the  great  riches 
he  should  possess,  that  he  could  not  recollect  the  necessary 
word.  Instead  of  Sesame,  he  said,  "  Open,  Barley,"  and 
was  much  alarmed  to  find  the  door  continue  shut.  He 
named  several  other  sorts  of  grain  to  as  little  purpose, 
He  walked  about  the  cave  several  hours  with  all  the  hor 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  353 

rors  of  approaching  death,  which  he  knew  must  befall  him 
if  the  thieves  found  him  there.  Regardless  of  the  treas- 
ure that  surrounded  him,  he  passed  his  time  in  lamenting 
his  unjust  treatment  of  his  brother,  and  in  fruitless  at- 
tempts to  call  to  mind  the  fatal  word,  which  the  more  he 
tried  to  remember,  was  the  more  absent  from  his  recol- 
lection. 

At  length  the  thieves  arrived,  and  seeing  Cassim's  mules 
straggling  about,  they  were  alarmed.  While  some  of  them 
searched  the  rock,  others,  with  the  captain  at  their  head, 
drew  their  sabres,  went  directly  to  the  door,  and  speaking 
the  proper  words,  it  opened.  Cassim,  who  heard  the 
trampling  of  the  horses,  never  doubted  of  the  coming  of 
the  thieves,  or  of  his  own  certain  destruction.  He  re- 
solved to  make  one  effort  to  escape.  He  stood  ready  at 
the  door,  and  no  sooner  heard  the  word  "  Sesame,"  than  he 
sprang  out  briskly,  and  threw  the  captain  down ;  but  the 
other  thieves  with  their  sabres  presently  dispatched  him. 

When  they  entered  the  cave,  they  found  all  the  bags 
which  Cassim  had  brought  to  the  door  to  load  his  mules 
with.  They  easily  judged  that  when  he  was  in,  he  could 
not  get  out  again  ;  but  they  could  not  conceive  how  it  was 
possible  for  him  to  get  there  at  all.  They  agreed  to  cut 
the  body  into  quarters  and  hang  them  up  within  the  door 
of  the  cave,  to  terrify  any  other  person  from  a  like  at- 
tempt. Having  settled  this  and  their  other  affairs,  they 
again  took  horse,  and  rode  in  pursuit  of  booty  as  usual. 

In  the  meantime,  Cassim's  wife  became  very  uneasy  at 
his  absence.  She  passed  the  night  in  the  utmost  distress, 
condemning  her  own  impertinent  curiosity,  and  dreading 
the  evils  which  her  heart  foreboded  had  befallen  her 
husband. 

As  soon  as  it  was  light,  she  went  to  Ali  Baba.  Her 
haughty  spirit  was  now  subdued  by  grief  and  fear.  Sne 
told  him  in  tears,  that  Cassim  had  set  out  for  the  cavern 
early  the  preceding  morning,  and  was  not  yet  returned ; 
she,  therefore,  besought  his  advice  and  assistance.  Ali 
Bitba  readily  gave  her  both.  He  requested  her  to  com- 
pose herself,  and  to  keep  the  whole  affair  a  profound 
30*  x 


354  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

secret ;  and  he  set  off  immediately  for  the  cavern  to  seek 
for  his  brother. 

As  he  drew  near  the  rock,  he  was  much  shocked  to  see 
blood  spilled  at  the  door.  When  he  had  pronounced  the 
words,  and  the  cavern  became  open,  he  was  still  more 
affected  at  seeing  the  quarters  of  Cassim  hung  up  on  each 
side.  Ali  Baba  determined  to  pay  him  the  last  duties,  not- 
withstanding his  unbrotherly  behavior.  He  wrapped  up 
the  quarters  in  some  fine  stuffs  which  he  found  in  the 
cave,  and  loaded  one  of  his  asses  with  them  ;  but  put  upon 
the  ofiher  two  as  many  bags  of  gold  as  they  could  carry; 
and  having  covered  the  whole  with  wood,  he  entered  the 
town  in  the  evening,  drove  the  two  asses  laden  with  gold 
into  his  own  little  yard,  and  led  the  other  to  the  house  of 
his  late  brother. 

Cassim  had  a  young  slave,  named  Morgiana,  who  was 
remarkable  for  her  abilities.  Quick,  artful,  and  much 
attached  to  her  master  and  mistress,  she  had  on  many- 
occasions  discovered  great  talents  and  fidelity.  To  this 
slave  Ali  Baba  first  related  the  catastrophe  which  had 
befallen  her  master,  and  leaving  the  body  to  her  disposal, 
he  went  into  the  house  to  condole  with  his  sister-in-law. 

Cassim's  wife  saw  by  his  countenance  that  he  brought 
fatal  tidings.  Having  first  adjured  her  to  hear  him  in 
silence,  he  then  told  her  eveiything  that  had  happened. 
When  she  had  indulged  her  grief  for  some  time,  he  pro- 
posed to  her  that  she  should  become  his  wife.  "  I  have 
now,"  said  he,  "sufficient  wealth  for  us  all;  my  wife  has  a 
regard  for  }7ou,  and  I  am  sure  will  not  be  jealous;  and  you 
can  noways  dispose  of  yourself  more  to  your  comfort." 
The  widow  let  him  see  that  she  was  not  averse  to  this 
proposal.     He  then  took  his  leave  and  returned  home. 

Morgiana,  meanwhile,  went  to  a  dealer  in  medicines, 
and  bought  an  essence  usually  given  in  cases  of  great 
extremity  ;  and  being  asked  who  it  was  for,  replied,  weep- 
ing, "It  was  for  her  dear  master,  who  had  been  suddenly 
iaken  ill,  and  they  had  scarce  any  hopes  of  his  recovery." 
Raving  thus  sent  abroad  the  news  of  Cassim's  being  dan- 
gerously  ill,  she  prepared  the  next  morniug  to  bury  him. 


ARABIA.N    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  355 

There  was  an  old  cobbler  in  another  part  of  the  town, 
who  was  remarkable  for  opening  his  stall  every  morning 
before  daybreak.  To  him  Morgiana  went  at  that  time, 
and  putting  a  piece  of  gold  in  his  hand,  bade  him  take  his 
sewing-tackle  and  follow  her.  Mustapha  (which  was  his 
name)  was  a  merry  old  fellow;  and  finding  he  was  so  well 
paid  beforehand,  he  jumped  up  to  go  with  her,  saying  very 
pleasant  things  on  the  occasion. 

When  they  had  proceeded  a  little  way,  Morgiana  told 
him  it  was  necessary  to  blindfold  him.  The  cobbler  ob- 
jected to  this.  "I  was  afraid,"  said  he,  "your  pay  was 
too  good  to  be  earned  easily.  You  want  me  to  do  some- 
thing against  my  conscience  and  honor."  "  GJ-od  forbid  !  " 
replied  Morgiana,  putting  another  piece  of  gold  into  his 
hand;  "  come  along  with  me,  and  fear  nothing." 

The  other  piece  of  gold  set  everything  to  rights  with 
the  cobbler's  honor.  He  submitted  to  be  blindfolded;  in 
which  situation  he  was  led  to  the  room  where  Cassim's 
body  lay.  "  Sew  me  these  quarters  together  quickly,"  said 
Morgiana,  "and  I  have  another  piece  of  gold  in  store  for 
you."  Mustapha  obeyed,  and  having  done  the  business, 
was  conducted  back  by  Morgiana  in  the  same  manner  he 
came,  before  any  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  were 
stirring. 

The  body  was  then  put  into  a  coffin,  and  when  the  people 
of  the  mosque,  whose  business  it  is  to  wash  the  dead,  oifered 
to  perform  their  duty,  they  were  told  it  was  already  done. 
Everything  passed  without  the  least  suspicion.  In  a  few 
daj's,  Ali  Baba  removed  his  goods  to  the  house  of  his 
bi'other's  widow,  taking  care  to  convey  the  gold  thither 
by  night ;  and  his  marriage  with  his  sister  (which  is  com- 
mon in  our  religion)  was  made  public. 

While  this  was  passing  in  the  town,  the  thieves  had 
returned  to  their  cavern,  and  found  that  Cassim's  body  and 
some  of  their  gold  had  been  taken  away.  "It  is  plain," 
said  the  captain  to  his  companions,  "  that  we  are  discov- 
ered, and  that  our  secret  is  known  to  another  besides  him 
we  put  to  death.  We  must  lay  aside  every  enterprise  to 
detect  this  inti  ider ;    we  must  risk  every  danger  to  effect 


356  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

it,  or  our  riches,  the  reward  of  so  many  gallant  excursions, 
will  be  insensibly  pilfered  from  us." 

The  thieves  agreed  to  this  proposal.  "I  expected  no 
less,"  said  the  captain,  "from  your  courage  and  bravery; 
nor  do  I  fear  but  by  judicious  management  we  shall  cut 
off  our  enemy  before  he  has  revealed  our  secret  to  any 
other  person,  which  he  will  scarcely  do  soon.  Let  one  of 
us  disguise  himself  as  a  traveller,  and  go  into  the  town. 
He  must  try  if  he  can  hear  of  any  one  having  been  cruelly 
murdered.  If  he  succeeds,  let  him  find  out  the  house  where 
it  happened,  and  then  return  to  us.  But  more  to  insure 
wariness  than  to  guard  against  treachery,  let  us  agree 
that,  whoever  goes,  if  he  brings  us  a  false  or  imperfect 
report,  he  shall  pay  for  his  inattention  with  his  head." 

Without  waiting  for  the  suffrages  of  his  companions, 
one  of  the  party  started  up  and  said,  "  I  submit  myself  to 
this  law,  and  think  it  an  honor  to  expose  my  life  by  taking 
such  a  commission  upon  me.  Only  remember,  that  if  I 
do  not  succeed,  that  I  neither  wanted  courage  nor  good- 
will to  serve  my  troop." 

The  brave  fellow  received  the  thanks  and  applause  of 
the  captain  and  his  comrades.  Next  morning  he  entered 
the  town  by  break  of  day,  and  coming  to  Mustapha's  stall, 
who  was  at  work,  the  robber  entered  into  conversation 
with  him,  and  observed  that  he  must  have  good  eyes  to 
see  to  work  so  early.  "Good  eyes,"  replied  Mustapha, 
testily;  "yes,  yes;  my  eyes  are  good  enough,  I  assure  you. 
It  was  but  very  lately  I  sewed  a  dead  body  together, 
which  had  been  cut  in  quarters,  in  a  place  where  I  had 
less  light  than  I  have  here." 

The  robber  was  overjoyed  to  find  he  was  so  soon  likely 
to  succeed  in  his  inquiry.  He  asked  Mustapha  many  ques- 
tions, and  at  last,  putting  a  piece  of  gold  into  the  old  man's 
hand,  he  requested  he  would  earn  that  by  showing  him 
the  house  where  he  performed  the  task  he  had  mentioned. 

The  cobbler  accepted  the  gold,  but  said,  "I  cannot  show 
you  the  house,  as  I  was  conducted  to  it  blindfolded."  — 
"Well,"  replied  the  robber,  "let  me  blind  your  eyes,  and 
do  you  proceed  as  nearly  as  you  can  in  the  same  direction; 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  357 

and  as  every  one  ought  to  be  paid,  if  you  will  gratify  me, 
I  will  give  you  another  piece  of  gold." 

Mustapha  wanted  no  further  entreaty.  He  let  the 
robber  blind  him  at  the  end  of  the  street,  and  went  on  till 
he  came  to  the  door  of  Cassim's  house,  where  Ali  Baba 
now  lived.  "When  stopping,  he  said,  "I  think  I  went  no 
further  than  here."  The  robber,  before  he  pulled  off  the 
bandage,  marked  the  door  with  a  piece  of  chalk  ;  after 
which  he  dismissed  Mustapha,  and  prepared  to  make  a 
private  inquiry  after  the  owner  of  the  habitation. 

He  learned  that  the  late  possessor  died  suddenly,  and 
that  Ali  Baba,  who  a  very  little  before  was  miserably  poor, 
had  married  the  widow,  and  was  become  wealthy ;  but 
not  by  this  marriage,  as  he  had  given  Cassim's  son  all  his 
father's  property.  Prom  these  circumstances  the  robber 
was  at  no  loss  to  conclude  that  Cassim  was  the  person 
who  was  slain,  and  that  Ali  Baba  was  the  other  possessor 
of  their  secret.  He  returned  to  his  companions  with  ex- 
ultation; he  related  to  them  his  good  fortune ;  and  they, 
with  many  praises,  congratulated  him  and  each  other. 

In  the  evening,  the  captain  and  the  spy  set  forward  for 
the  town.  The  whole  troop  followed  in  separate  parties 
well  armed,  and  met  in  the  great  square,  to  act  as  their 
leader  should  direct ;  but  when  the  two  former  came  to 
the  street  where  Ali  Baba  lived,  the  robber  could  not  dis- 
tinguish the  house  ;  for  Morgiana,  having  taken  notice  of 
the  mark  on  her  master's  door,  thought  it  had  a  particular 
appearance ;  she  therefore  took  a  piece  of  chalk,  and 
marked  the  doors  of  all  their  neighbors  so  exactly  like  it, 
that  it  was  impossible  to  distinguish  one  from  another. 
The  design  being  thus  rendered  abortive,  the  thieves  re- 
turned to  the  cavern,  where  their  unfortunate  comrade, 
being  condemned  by  their  unanimous  suffrages,  was  put 
to  death. 

But  as  so  much  light  had  been  obtained  by  the  first  ad- 
venture, and  as  the  cutting  off  of  their  enemy  was  of  so 
much  concern  to  them  all,  another  of  the  troop,  flattering 
himself  that  he  should  succeed  better,  undertook  the  dan- 
gerous business.    By  renewing  the  inquiry,  he  easily  found 


358  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

out  the  house,  which  he  marked  with  red  chalk  in  a  part 
remote  from  sight,  and  returned  with  confidence  to  his 
companions.  Nothing  escaped  the  watchfulness  of  Mor- 
giana.  The  former  affair  had  alarmed  her;  and  when  she 
saw  the  red  mark,  she  repeated  the  former  caution,  and 
marked  every  house  in  the  street  in  the  same  manner. 
The  second  spy,  therefore,  was  as  unsuccessful  as  the  first. 
The  troop,  once  more  disappointed,  returned  to  their  cav- 
ern, and  put  their  other  comrade  to  death,  agreeably  to 
the  law  they  had  all  consented  to. 

The  captain,  grieved  for  the  loss  of  his  two  gallant  com- 
panions, resolved  to  undertake  the  affair  himself. 

Having  found  out  Ali  Baba's  house,  he  did  not  fix  any 
mark  upon  it,  but  took  so  much  notice  of  it,  that  it  was 
impossible  he  could  mistake  it.  He  then  returned  to  his 
companions,  and  laid  before  them  a  scheme  to  cut  off  their 
adversary  without  noise  or  danger. 

The  troop  approved  their  captain's  proposal.  They 
provided  many  large  jars,  some  of  Which  they  filled  with 
oil;  and  having  bought  stout  mules  in  the  adjoining  vil- 
lages, the  captain  put  his  troop  into  the  other  jars,  and 
placing  them  on  panniers  on  the  backs  of  mules,  drove 
them,  toward  eve.iing,  into  the  town. 

Going  immediately  to  Ali  Baba's  house,  he  found  him 
sitting  at  the  door,  enjoying  the  cool  of  the  evening.  The 
pretended  oil-merchant  requested  Ali  Baba  that  he  would 
receive  him  for  that  night,  as  he  was  a  stranger  and  knew 
not  where  to  go.  His  request  was  readily  granted.  The 
servants  unloaded  the  mules,  and  took  care  of  them ;  and 
Ali  Baba  received  his  treacherous  guest  with  the  hospi- 
tality becoming  a  good  Mussulman. 

Before  they  retired  to  rest,  Ali  Baba  told  Morgiana  that 
he  would  bathe  early  in  the  morning,  and  directed  her  to 
have  his  bathing-clothes  and  some  broth  ready.  This  ob- 
liged her  to  sit  up  after  her  master  and  his  guest  had 
retired;  and  the  latter  hearing  it,  resolved  to  lie. down  in 
his  clothes,  and  not  give  the  signal  while  Morgiana  was 
stirring,  for  fear  of  a  disappointment. 

It  happened,  while  she  was  busy,  that  her  lamp  grew 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  359 

dull ;  and  having  no  oil  in  the  house,  she  recollected  the 
jars  in  the  yard,  from  whence  she  resolved  to  supply  her- 
self. Upon  opening  the  first  she  came  to,  the  thief  within 
said,  softly,  "Is  it  time?"  to  which  Morgiana,  with  ad- 
mirable presence  of  mind,  replied,  "Not  yet;  but  present- 
ly !  "  She  then  examined  all  the  jars,  and  found  there 
were  in  them  seven-and-thirty  armed  men,  a  few  jars  only 
being  filled  with  oil. 

Morgiana  soon  concluded  who  these  men  were.  She 
hastily  called  up  another  slave,  named  Abdallah,  and  bring- 
ing several  jars  of  oil  into  the  kitchen,  they  heated  a  part 
of  it  boiling-hot.  This  she  poured  into  one  of  the  jars, 
by  that  means  killing  the  thief  that  was  concealed  in  it. 
She  did  so  till  she  had  destroyed  all  the  seven-and-thirty 
thieves,  when  she  put  out  her  fire  and  went  to  bed. 

The  captain  had  waited  with  great  impatience  for  her 
doing  so.  As  soon  as  all  was  quiet,  he  went  to  his  win- 
dow and  threw  stones  at  the  jars,  which  was  the  signal 
agreed  on  for  his  companions  to  release  themselves.  Find- 
ing none  of  them  stir,  he  began  to  be  uneasy,  and  repeated 
the  signal  two  or  three  times.  He  then  became  impatient 
and  alarmed;  and  hastening  down  to  the  jars,  he  opened 
one  of  them.  The  steam  of  the  boiling  oil  soon  informed 
him  of  the  fate  of  his  friends.  He  had  the  resolution  to 
open  every  jar,  in  hopes  that  some  of  them  might  have 
escaped,  but  in  vain  :  they  were  all  dead.  The  captain 
was  so  enraged  at  the  failure  of  his  design,  and  at  the  loss 
of  so  many  brave  fellows,  that  he  would  certainly  have 
sacrificed  his  own  life  in  a  public  attack  on  Ali  Baba,  had 
not  hopes  of  more  complete  vengeance  darted  into  hie 
mind,  and  encouraged  him  to  make  his  escape. 

In  the  morning.  Morgiana  acquainted  her  master  with 
what  had  happened.  Ali  Baba.  grateful  for  such  important 
services,  gave  her  her  freedom,  and  a  large  sum  of  money; 
but  she  was  so  much  attached  to  the  family,  that  she  con- 
tinued to  live  with  them,  and  superintend  the  other  slaves 
in  their  business. 

The  captain  of  the  thieves  returned  to  the  forest  in  a 
transport  of  rage  and  despair.     When  he  arrived  at  the 


360  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

cavern,  the  loneliness  of  the  place  seemed  frightful  to  him. 
"  Where  are  you,  my  brave  lads  ! "  cried  he,  "  my  old  com 
panions  ?  how  unhappy  to  lose  you  by  a  fate  so  base !  had 
you  died  with  your  sabres  in  your. hands,  I  should  not 
have  been  inconsolable.  Where  shall  I  get  so  gallant  a 
troop  again?  But  first  let  me  sacrifice  the  wretch  to  whon» 
I  owe  this  fatal  misfortune."  He  then  endeavored  to  com- 
pose his  mind,  that  he  might  the  more  safely  and  effect- 
ually execute  his  revenge  on  Ali  Baba. 

The  captain  suffered  several  weeks  to  pass  by  before  he 
set  about  the  scheme  he  had  planned  for  the  destruction 
of  his  enemy.  By  this  means  he  hoped  Ali  Baba's  ven- 
geance would  relax,  and  he  himself  should  be  more  cool 
in  his  measures.  He  passed  much  of  his  time  in  the  town, 
where  he  learned  that  Cassim's  son,  now  adopted  by  Ali 
Baba,  had  a  very  considerable  shop. 

He  also  took  a  shop,  which  he  plentifully  supplied  from 
the  cavern  with  all  sorts  of  rich  stuffs.  He  appeared  as  a 
merchant,  and  having  a  large  assortment  of  valuable  goods, 
was  treated  by  everybody  with  respect.  Young  Cassim 
was  among  those  who  sought  the  regard  of  the  new  mer- 
chant, and  soon  became  his  declared  favorite.  He  loaded 
the  young  man  with  civilities,  often  made  him  small  pres- 
ents, and  invited  him  continually  to  dine  and  sup  with  him. 

As  young  Cassim  did  not  keep  house,  he  had  no  oppor- 
tunity to  return  these  obligations.  He  therefore  intro- 
duced the  stranger  to  Ali  Baba,  who  received  him  very 
cordially.  When  evening  drew  on,  the  captain  appeared 
desirous  to  take  his  leave ;  but  his  host,  who  was  much 
taken  with  his  pleasant  manner,  pressed  him  to  stay  to 
supper.  After  some  excuses,  the  pretended  merchant  said, 
"  I  would  accept  your  friendly  invitation,  but  I  eat  no  salt 
in  any  of  n^  food."  "  Well,"  replied  Ali  Baba,  "  we  will 
have  the  supper  dressed  without  any." 

When  Morgiana  received  this  direction,  she  was  much 
dissatisfied.  "Who  is  this  difficult  man,"  said  she,  "that 
eats  no  salt?"  "Be  not  displeased  with  him  for  that," 
replied  Ali  Baba;  "he  is  my  son's  friend,  and  an  honest 
man." 


AKABiAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  361 

Though  Morgiana  obeyed  her  master,  and  sent  up  sup- 
per as  he  desired,  she  was  still  uneasy  at  the  request  hia 
new  guest  had  made;  she  therefore  carried  in  one  of  the 
dishes  herself  on  purpose  to  look  at  him.  The  moment 
she  entered  the  room  she  knew  him,  notwithstanding  his 
disguise,  and  examining  him  pretty  closely,  she  saw  a 
dagger  under  his  garment.  "I  am  not  surprised,"  thought 
she,  "that  this  wretch,  who  is  my  master's  greatest  enemy, 
will  eat  no  salt  with  him,  since  he  intends  to  assassinate 
him;  but  I  will  prevent  him." 

Accordingly,  as  soon  as  supper  was  removed,  she  entered 
the  room  dressed  like  a  dancer,  with  a  silver  girdle,  to 
which  hung  a  poniard  of  the  same  metal.  She  played  on 
a  tabor,  and  danced  several  dances  with  great  spirit.  At 
length,  drawing  the  poniard,  she  pointed  with  it  to  a  little 
chink  in  the  side  of  the  tabor,  where  spectators  generally 
give  their  gratuity  to  those  who  dance  for  a  livelihood ; 
and  going  tp  AH  Baba,  he  put  in  a  piece  of  gold,  as  did 
his  son.  She  then  drew  near  the  visitor,  and,  while  he 
was  putting  his  hand  in  his  purse,  plunged  the  poniard 
into  his  bosom. 

Ali  Baba  and  his  son  cried  out  against  her  for  this  vio- 
lent act;  but  she  soon  called  to  their  recollection  the  pre- 
tended oil-merchant,  and  showed  the  arms  he  had  con- 
cealed. The  unfortunate  robber  confirmed  her  testimony, 
by  lamenting,  before  he  expired,  amidst  his  execrations 
ind  despair,  that  he  was  the*  last  of  the  forty  thieves  to 
whom  the  cavern  had  belonged. 

Ali  Baba  received  with  due  gratitude  this  further  in- 
stance of  Morgiana's  attachment;  and  Cassim  was  so  much 
pleased  with  her  spirit  and  good  sense,  that  he  took  he? 
to  wife.  The  whole  treasure  in  the  cavern  became  now 
safely  the  property  of  Ali  Baba.  He  taught  his  son  the' 
secret,  which  he  handed  down  to  posterity;  and  using  this 
good  fortune  with  moderation,  they  lived  in  great  honor, 
serving  tha  chief  offices  of  the  city. 


362  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 


THE    S10RY   OP   ALI   COGIA,    MERCHANT    OF    BAGDAD. 

There  lived  at  Bagdad  a  reputable  merchant,  named  An 
Uogia,  of  a  moderate  fortune;  contented  with  his  situa- 
tion, and  therefore  happy. 

It  happened  that  for  three  nights  following  he  dreamed 
that  a  venerable  old  man  came  to  him,  and,  with  a  severe 
look,  reprimanded  him  for  not  having  made  a  pilgrimage 
to  Mecca.  Ali  Cogia  knew,  that,  as  a  good  Mussulman,  it 
was  his  duty  to  undertake  such  a  pilgrimage,  but  he  con- 
tented himself  with  determining  to  set  about  it  some  dis- 
tant day;  when  that  day  came,  he  was  never  without  an 
excuse  to  postpone  his  journey,  and  renew  his  resolution. 

These  dreams  awakened  his  conscience.  He  converted 
his  substance  into  cash,  half  of  which  he  laid  out  in  mer- 
chandise, to  traffic  with  as  he  journeyed.  The  other  half 
he  deposited  in  a  jar,  which  he  filled  with  olives,  and  re- 
quested a  friend  of  his  to  suffer  it  to  remain,  in  his  ware- 
house till  the  caravan  should  return  from  Mecca.  He 
mentioned  it  as  ajar  of  olives  only,  without  sa}dng  a  word 
of  the  money  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Noureddin,  which  was 
the  name  of  his  friend,  very  obligingly  gave  him  the  key 
of  his  warehouse,  and  desired  him  to  set  his  jar  where  he 
pleased,  promising  it  should  remain  untouched  till  his 
return. 

When  the  caravan  was  ready,  Ali  Cogia  set  out  for 
Moc(^i,  where  he  performed  "very  exactly  all  those  cere- 
monies which  are  observed  at  that  holy  place.  The  duties 
of  his  pilgrimage  being  completed,  he  went  to  Cairo,  and 
thence  to  Damascus,  trading  all  the  wa}7  to  considerable 
advantage.  Having  a  great  desire  to  see  the  world,  he 
went  to  other  celebrated  cities,  taking  Jerusalem  in  his 
way.  that  he  might  view  the  temple,  which  is  looked  upon 
by  all  Mussulmans  to  be  the  most  holy,  after  that  of  Mecca. 
In  short,  he  took  so  long  a  journey,  that  seven  years 
elapsed  before  he  returned  to  Bagdad. 

All  this  time  the  jar  of  olives  stood  undisturbed  in  Nou- 
reddin's  warehouse.  But  it  so  fell  out,  a  few  days  before 
Ali  Cogia  came  home,  that  the  wife  of  ISoureddin  chanced 


ARABIAN    NIGIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  363 

to  wi.^h  for  some  olives.  This  brought  to  his  mind  the  jai 
his  friend  had  left  with  him  so  long  ago.  He  determined 
to  open  and  examine  them.  His  wife  in  vain  represented 
to  him  how  base  and  dishonorable  it  was  to  meddle  with 
anything  left  in  his  hands  as  a  trust.  Noureddin  was 
obstinate;  he  opened  the  jar,  and  found  all  the  olives  at 
the  top  were  mouldy.  Hoping  to  find  them  better  at  the 
bottom,  he  emptied  them  all  out,  and  with  them  turned 
out  the  bag  of  gold  which  AH  Cogia  had  deposited  there. 

Noureddin  was  a  man  whose  general  conduct  was  spe- 
cious. He  was  exceeding^  careful  to  preserve  his  reputa- 
tion. But  in  his  heart  he  was  a  slave  to  avarice;  and  like 
all  other  very  covetous  men,  he  was  as  honest  as  his 
interest  obliged  him  to  be.  At  the  sight  of  so  much  money, 
he  determined  to  seize  it,  and  finding  it  impossible  to  re- 
place the  olives  so  as  to  appear  as  they  were  before,  he 
opened  the  jar,  threw  them  away,  and  filled  it  with  new 
ones. 

When  Ali  Cogia  arrived,  his  first  care  was  to  visit  Nou- 
reddin.  This  traitor  affected  great  joy  to  see  him  again 
after  so  long  an  absence  ;  and  of  his  own  accord  offered 
him  the  key  of  his  warehouse  to  fetch  his  jar. 

When  Ali  Cogia  had  conveyed  the  jar  home  and  turned 
it  out,  he  was  surprised  to  see  that  his  gold  had  been  taken 
away.  He  returned  to  Noureddin,  and  endeavored,  bj 
friendly  reasoning,  to  prevail  with  him  to  do  justice.  The 
base  merchant  was  callous  to  every  consideration  of  that 
kind.  He  concluded  that,  as  Ali  Cogia  could  produce  no 
proof  of  his  having  lodged  treasure  in  the  jar,  his  own 
general  fair  character  would  bear  him  out  against  one  who 
had  been  absent  so  long  that  he  was  almost  unknown 
in  his  native  city.  Nor  was  he  mistaken.  The  cady, 
hearing  Ali  Cogia's  complaint,  called  upon  Noureddin  for 
his  defence;  who  said,  "'Tis  true  that  Ali  Cogia,  seven 
years  ago,  at  his  own  request,  left  a  jar  in  my  warehouse, 
which  he  told  me  was  filled  with  olives.  I  never  saw  the 
jar.  He  carried  it  thither  himself,  left  it  where  he  pleased, 
and  found  it  in  the  same  place,  covered  as  he  left  it.  He 
•Jid  not  place  it  in  my  care  as  a  treasure.     He  has  no  wit- 


364  ARABIAN   NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ness  to  prove  that  he  put  a  treasure  in  it.  Might  he  not 
as  well  have  demanded  a  jar  of  diamonds?  In  short,  I 
declare  that  I  never  had  this  money,  or  even  knew  there 
was  any  in  the  jar ;  this  I  am  ready  to  declare  on  my  oath." 
The  cady,  finding  Ali  Cogia  could  bring  no  testimony  to 
confirm  his  bare  assertfon,  determined  the  affair  by  a 
short  process  ;  and  admitting  Noureddin  to  justify  himself 
on  oath,  dismissed  the  complaint.  The  sufferer  did  not 
so  easily  put  up  with  his  loss.  He  appealed  to  the  caliph, 
and  a  day  was  fixed  for  the  hearing  in  the  divan,  Nou- 
reddin  being  duly  summoned  to  attend. 

The  evening  before  the  cause  was  to  come  on,  the  caliph 
and  his  vizier  were  walking  in  disguise  about  the  city, 
when  they  met  with  a  group  of  children,  and  heard  one 
of  them  say,  "  Come,  let  us  play  at  the  cady.  I  will  be 
the  cady;  bring  Ali  Cogia,  and  the  merchant  who  cheated 
him  of  his  gold,  before  me."  The  caliph,  being  reminded 
by  these  words  of  the  cause  which  was  to  come  before  him 
next  day,  attended  to  the  motions  of  the  children. 

The  pretended  cady  took  his  seat.  Presently  one  of 
the  children,  representing  Ali  Cogia,  repeated  his  com- 
plaint; and  another,  as  JSToureddin,  made  the  same  answer 
he  had  done,  and  offered  to  confirm  his  innocence  by  an 
oath.  Another  boy  was  about  to  administer  the  oath,  but 
the  imaginary  cady  prevented  him,  saying,  "  Let  me  see 
the  jar  of  olives."  It  was  supposed  to  be  brought  forward ; 
and  each  party  owned  it  to  be  the  identical  jar  in  dispute.- 
The  young  cady  then  ordered  it  to  be  opened,  and  pre- 
tended to  eat  some  of  the  fruit.  "These  olives,"  said  he, 
"  are  excellent ;  I  cannot  think  they  have  been  kept  for 
seven  years.     Send  for  a  couple  of  olive-merchants." 

Two  other  lads  stood  forward  as  olive-merchants.  The 
pretended  cady  demanded  how  long  olives  would  keep  fit 
to  eat.  They  answered,  "  That  with  the  utmost  care  they 
would  lose  their  taste  and  color  by  the  third  year."  "Look, 
then,"  said  the  young  cady,  "into  that  jar,  and  tell  me 
how  old  those  olives  are." 

The  two  imaginary  merchants  seemed  to  examine  and 
iaste  the  olives,  and  reported  them  to  be  new  and  good. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  365 

"New!"  replied  the  judge;  "JSToureddin  is  ready  to  swear 
they  have  stood  seven  years  in  his  warehouse  ! "  "It  is 
impossible,"  said  the  young  merchants  ;  "  we  know  better, 
and  are  sure  that  these  olives  are  of  the  present  year's 
growth." 

The  imaginary  criminal  would  have  replied,  but  the 
young  cady  would  not  hear  him.  "You  are  a  rogue," 
said  he,  "  and  ought  to  be  hanged."  The  children  put  an 
end  to  their  play,  by  clapping  their  hands  with  a  great 
deal  of  joy,  and  seizing  the  criminal  to  carry  him  to 
execution. 

The  caliph  listened  to  what  passed  with  much  attention; 
and  after  musing  a  few  moments,  he  ordered  his  grand 
vizier  to  find  out  the  boy  who  had  represented  the  magis- 
trate, and  bring  him  to  the  divan  next  morning.  He  di- 
rected the  cady  and  two  olive-merchants  to  attend ;  and 
sent  orders  to  AH  Cogia,  that  he  should  bring  the  jar  of 
olives  with  him. 

When  the  divan  met,  and  all  the  parties  attended,  the 
child  was  presented  to  the  caliph,  who  asked  him  if  it  was 
he  who  determined  the  cause  last  night  at  play,  between 
Ali  Cogia  and  Noureddin?  The  boy  modestly  answered, 
"It  was;"  the  caliph  seeing  the  child  was  awed  by  his 
presence,  embraced  and  commended  him.  "You  shall 
now,  my  dear,"  said  he,  "  decide  between  the  real  parties; 
tome,  and  sit  down  by  me."  Then  turning  to  Ali  Cogia 
and  his  adversary,  he  bade  them  plead  their  cause  before 
that  child,  who  should  do  them  both  justice.  "If,"  con- 
tinued the  caliph,  "  he  should  be  at  a  loss,  I  will  assist  him." 

The  attention  of  every  one  present  was  turned,  in  an 
extraordinary  degree,  to  this  singular  trial.  Ali  Cogia 
and  Noureddin  pleaded  against  each  other  much  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  children  had  done  the  evening  before; 
when  Noureddin  offered  to  take  his  oath,  the  boy  said, 
"  It  is  too  soon  ;  let  us  see  the  jar  of  olives." 

An  examination  of  the  quality  and  age  of  the  fruit  now 
took  place ;  everything  which  had  passed  among  the  chil- 
dren, in  their  play,  was  repeated,  seriously,  before  the 
caliph,  in  the  dTvan.  The  treachery  of  Noureddin  waa 
31  * 


366  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

apparent,  when  the  child,  instead  of  ordering  hi  fin  to  be 
hanged,  looked  up  to  the  caliph,  and  said,  "Commander  of 
the  faithful,  this  is  not  play  ;  it  is  your  majesty  that  must 
condemn  him  to  death,  and  not  me,  though  I  did  it  last 
night  among  my  comrades." 

The  caliph,  fully  convinced  of  Noureddin's  villany,  or- 
dered him  into  the  hands  of  his  ministers  of  justice,  to  be 
hanged  immediately  ;  and  confiscated  his  effects  to  the  use 
of  Ali  Cogia.  Then  turning  to  the  cady,  the  monarch 
reprehended  him  severely,  and  bade  him  learn  from  that 
child  how  to  do  his  duty  in  future.  At  the  close  of  the 
divan,  the  caliph  again  embraced  the  boy,  and  sent  him 
nome  to  his  parents  with  a  purse  of  gold  and  the  applause 
his  early  abilities  deserved. 

THE    HISTORY    OF   THE    ENCHANTED    HORSE. 

On  the  Nevrouz,  that  is  to  say,  the  new  day,  which  is 
the  first  of  the  year,  and  the  beginning  of  the  spring, 
there  is  an  ancient  and  solemn  feast  observed  through  all 
Persia,  which  h#s  continued  from  the  time  of  idolatry ; 
nor  could  the  pure  religion  of  our  holy  prophet  prevail 
over  that  heathenish  custom.  Superstitious  ceremonies, 
mixed  with  public  rejoicings,  mark  the  Nevrouz,  which  is 
celebrated  in  every  town  and  village  in  that  extensive 
kingdom. 

At  the  court,  this  feast  is  always  attended  with  the 
greatest  splendor ;  and  it  was  some  years  ago  a  custom 
that  all  artists,  natives  or  strangers,  were  allowed  at  that 
time  to.produce  their  several  inventions  before  the  king; 
who  never  failed  to  confer  liberal  rewards  on  those  whose 
abilities  deserved  them. 

Near  the  close  of  one  of  those  feasts,  an  Indian  presented 
himself  before  the  king,  having  an  artificial  horse  of  the 
most  perfect  workmanship,  richly  accoutred.  "  I  flatter 
myself,  sir,"  said  the  Indian,  addressing  himself  to  the 
king,  "that  your  majesty  hath  never  seen  anythirg  so 
wonderful  as  this  horse,  either  now,  or  at  any  fcrmer 
Nevrouz."  The  king  surveyed  the  horse  with  attention. 
"I  see  nothing,"  said  he,  "but  a  fine  piece  of  sculpture, 
■•vhirri  any  able  artist  may  equal  " 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  367 

"Sir,"  replied  the  Indian,  "it  is  not  his  form,  but  h  s  use 
that  I  commend  so  highly.  On  his  buck  I  can  convey 
myself  through  the  air,  to  the  most  distant  part  of  the 
earth,  in  a  very  short  time.  I  can  even  instruct  any  other 
person  to  ride  in  the  same  manner.  Such  is  the  curiosity 
I  have  the  honor  to  present  to  your  majesty's  notice." 

The  king  was  highly  pleased  with  this  account  of  the 
Indian's  horse,  and  desired  to  see  a  proof  of  his  abilities. 
"There  is,"  said  the  king,  pointing  to  a  mountain  about 
three  leagues  off,  "on  the  summit  of  that  mountain,  a 
palm-tree  of  a  particular  quality,  which  I  should  know 
from  all  others  ;  go,  fetch  me  a  branch  of  it." 

The  Indian  mounted  his  horse,  and  turning  a  ])eg  which 
was  in  the  neck,  away  he  flew  with  him,  and  they  were 
presently  out  of  sight.  Within  a  quarter  of  an  hour  he 
was  seen  returning  with  a  palm-branch  in  his  hand,  which, 
as  soon  as  he  had  descended  and  alighted,  he  laid  at  the 
king's  feet. 

The  king  was  greatly  pleased  with  this  extraordinary 
performance,  and  resolved  to  purchase  the  horse  if  he  could 
prevail  with  the  owner  to  part  with  him.  Accordingly, 
he  asked  the  Indian  if  he  was  to  be  sold.  "Sir,"  replied 
the  Indian,  "  I  should  not  have  produced  my  horse  to  your 
majesty,  if  it  had  been  absolutely  impossible  for  me  to  sell 
him.  Yet  the  artist  from  whom  I  received  him,  laid  me 
under  the  most  solemn  injunction  that  I  should  never 
part  with  him  for  money ;  nor  indeed  on  any  terms,  but 
such  as  I  might  request  your  pardon  before  I  presume  to 
came  them." 

The  king  impatiently  answered  that  he  forgave  #his 
demand,  even  if  it  was  to  reach  his  crown;  but  he  re- 
served to  himself  the  power  of  refusal,  if  he  thought  that 
demand  too  exorbitant.  The  Indian  then  replied  that  he 
was  ready  to  resign  his  horse  if  his  majesty  would  conde- 
scend to  bestow  on  him  the  princess,  his  daughter,  in 
marriage. 

When  the  courtiers  heard  this  extravagant  request,  they 
all  burst  into  loud  laughter;  but  the  prince  Firouz  Schah, 
the  only  son  of  the  king,  was  enrage  I,  and  the  more  so 


368  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

when  he  saw  the  king  pensive,  debating  with  himself 
what  answer  to  return.  Going  up  to  his  father,  he  said, 
u  I  entreat  your  majesty  will  pardon  the  liberty  I  am 
about  to  take  ;  but  is  it  possible  you  can  hesitate  a  mo- 
ment what  answer  to  make  to  this  insolent  fellow?  Can 
you  bear  to  think  of  degrading  our  house  by  an  alliance 
with  a  scandalous  juggler?" 

The  king  approved  of  his  son's  spirit,  but  argued  that 
if  he  refused  to  comply  with  the  Indian's  proposal,  per- 
haps some  other  sovereign  might  be  less  nice,  and  by  that 
means  become  possessed  of  the  greatest  curiosity  in  the 
world.  He  concluded  his  discourse  by  desiring  his  son  to 
examine  the  horse  attentively,  and  give  his  opinion  of  him. 

Respect  for  his  father  made  him  receive  these  orders  in 
silence.  lie  approached  the  horse,  and  the  Indian  drew 
near  to  instruct  the  prince  in  the  method  of  managing 
him ;  but  the  haughty  young  man  was  in  too  great  a  fury 
to  listen  to  him.  He  spurned  the  kneeling  Indian  with 
the  most  hearty  indignation,  and  leaping  into  the  saddle, 
he  turned  the  peg,  and  the  horse  flew  away  with  him. 

The  Indian  was  exceeding^  alarmed  when  he  saw  the 
prince  depart  before  he  had  learned  how  to  manage  the 
horse.  He  threw  himself  once  more  at  the  king's  feet, 
and  besought  his  majesty  not  to  impute  to  him  any  acci- 
dent which  might  befall  the  prince,  since  his  own  impet- 
uosity only  had  exposed  him  to  danger.  The  king  had 
no  apprehension  for  his  son,  till  he  saw  the  Indian  so  ter- 
rified. He  then  felt  all  the  horrors  of  the  prince's  situa- 
tion. He  execrated  the  Indian  and  his  fatal  horse,  and 
ordered  his  officers  to  seize  and  conduct  him  to  prison. 
"  If  my  son  does  not  return  safe,"  said  he,  "  in  a  short 
time,  thy  paltry  life,  at  least,  shall  be  sacrificed  to  my 
vengeance." 

In  the  meantime,  Firouz  Schah  was  carried  through  the 
air  with  inconceivable  swiftness,  till  at  length  he  could 
scarcely  discern  the  earth  at  all.  He  then  wished  to 
return,  which  he  expected  to  do  by  turning  the  peg  the 
contrary  way  ;  but  when  he  found  the  horse  continued  to 
rise  from  the  earth,  and  proceed  forward  at  the  same  time 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  369 

with  greater  swiftness,  he  was  alarmed  and  began  to  regret 
his  pride  and  anger.  He  turned  the  peg  about  every  way 
to  no  purpose ;  in  this  situation  he  retained,  notwithstand- 
ing, a  perfect  presence  of  mind,  and,  on  examining  the 
horse  closely,  he  at  last  perceived  another  peg  behind  the 
ear.  On  turning  that  peg,  he  presently  found  that  he 
descended  in  the  same  oblique  manner  that  he  had 
mounted,  but  not  so  swiftly. 

As  he  drew  near  the  earth,  he  lost  the  light  by  degrees, 
till  he  came  into  total  darkness.  He  did  not  attempt, 
therefore,  to  guide  the  horse ;  but  waited  patiently, 
though   not  without  apprehension,  till  he  should  alight. 

It  was  midnight  when  the  horse  stopped,  and  Firouz 
dismounted,  faint  with  hunger  and  fatigue.  He  groped 
about  and  found  he  was  on  the  leads  of  some  large  build- 
ing. At  length  he  came  to  some  steps,  which  he  de- 
scended, and  rambled  about  in  the  dark  for  some  time;  at 
last,  on  opening  a  door,  he  found  a  light,  and  saw  a  num- 
ber of  black  eunuchs  asleep  on  pallets,  with  their  sabres 
lying  by  them.  This  convinced  him  that  he  was  in  a 
palace,  and  that  this  chamber  was  the  guard-room  of  some 
princess.  As  he  knew  if  any  of  the  eunuchs  should  awake, 
he  should  be  in  great  danger,  he  resolved  to  enter  the  next 
apartment,  and  throw  himself  on  the  mercy  of  the  lady 
who  inhabited  it. 

He  found  there  asleep  on  a  sofa  a  young  lady,  whose 
exquisite  beauty  captivated  his  heart  the  moment  he 
beheld  her.  Her  women  were  sleeping  in  little  beds 
around  her.  The  prince  gazed  on  her  for  a  long  time, 
forgetful  of  his  situation  ;  and,  at  length,  by  an  involun- 
tary impulse,  he  knelt  down,  and  gently  pulling  her  hand 
toward  him,  he  kissed  it. 

The  motion  awakened  the  princess,  who  was  surprised 
to  find  a  stranger  at  her  bedside.  She  would  have  cried 
out,  but  Firouz  besought  her  patience.  He  told  her  that 
he  was  the  son  of  a  king,  and  that  a  very  extraordinary 
accident,  which  he  would  relate,  had  brought  him  to  the 
necessity  of  claiming  her  protection 

The   lady  was   the    daughter   of  the   king  of  "Rongal 

Y 


370  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMEN  T8. 

Many  of  her  attendants  were  by  this  time  awakened 
She  told  Firouz,  therefore,  that  she  should  be  glad  to  hear 
the  particulars  of  his  adventure  in  the  morning,  but  for 
the  present  besought  him  to  withdraw.  At  the  same  time 
she  ordered  her  attendants  to  conduct  him  to  a  chamber, 
and  supply  him  with  such  refreshments  as  he  wanted. 

The  prince  attended  her  the  next  day,  and  related  to 
her  all  the  particulars  of  the  arrival  of  the  Indian  with 
his  horse,  of  his  insolent  demand,  and  its  consequences. 
He  concluded  his  account  of  his  journey  by  observing, 
that,  how  much  soever  he  had  been  enraged  at  the  Indian, 
he  now  began  to  consider  him  as  a  benefactor;  "Since," 
added  he,  "  he  has  been  the  cause  of  my  being  known  to 
a  lady  whose  chains  I  shall  be  proud  to  wear  as  long  as 
I  live." 

The  princess  received  this  compliment  in  such  a  manner 
as  showed  it  was  very  acceptable  to  her.  She  invited  the 
prince  to  repose  a  few  days  in  her  palace,  to  recover  him- 
self from  the  fatigue  and  alarm  he  had  undergone.  He 
accepted  this  invitation  ;  and  being  much  together,  they 
became  more  and  more  enamored  with  each  other.  And, 
at  last,  when  filial  duty  obliged  Firouz  to  think  of  return- 
ing to  Persia,  the  fond  princess,  fearing  she  should  see 
him  no  more,  dropped  a  hint  that  she  should  not  be 
afraid  to  trust  herself  with  him  on  the  enchanted  horse ; 
and  the  prince,  equally  enamored,  failed  not  to  confirm 
her  in  this  rash  disposition. 

Everything  being  agreed  on  between  the  lovers,  they 
repaired,  one  morning  at  daybreak,  to  the  leads  where 
the  horse  still  remained ;  and,  having  turned  his  head 
toward  Persia,  Firouz  assisted  the  princess  to  mount  him. 
He  then  placed  himself  before  her,  and  turning  the  peg, 
they  were  out  of  sight  before  any  of  the  attendants  in 
the  palace  were  stirring;  and  in  two  hours  the  prince 
discovered  the  capital  of  Persia. 

He  would  not  alight  at  the  king's  palace,  but  directed 
his  course  to  a  neat  pleasure-house,  in  a  wood,  a  little  dis- 
tance from  town,  that  he  might  inform  his  father  who 
the  lady  was,  and  secure  her  a  reception  suitable  to  her 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  371 

dignity.  When  they  alighted,  he  led  her  into  a  handsoma 
apartment,  and  ordered  the  keeper  of  the  house  to  show 
her  all  imaginable  respect.  He  then  hastened  to  the 
palace,  where  the  king  received  him  with  unspeakable 
joy.  Firouz  related  to  his  father  all  that  had  befallen 
h:m,  and  the  king  was  so  delighted  with  his  son's  safe 
arrival,  that  he  readily  complied  with  his  desire  that  tho 
nuptial  ceremonies  between  him  and  the  princess  should 
be  immediately  celebrated. 

While  the  necessary  preparations  were  making,  the  king 
ordered  the  Indian,  who  was  to  have  been  executed  the 
next  day,  to  be  released  from  prison,  and  brought  before 
him.  "  My  son's  sale  arrival,"  said  the  king  to  him,  "hath 
preserved  thy  life.  Take  thy  horse,  and  begone  from  my 
dominions;  where,  if  thou  art  ever  seen  again,  I  will  not 
fail  to  put  thee  to  death."  The  Indian  being  then  freed 
from  his  chains,  and  set  at  liberty,  withdrew  in  silence. 

But  he  meditated  a  severe  revenge.  He  had  learned 
from  those  who  fetched  him  out  of  prison,  that  Firouz  had 
brought  home  with  him  a  beautiful  princess,  to  whom  he 
was  about  to  be  magried.  He  was  told  also  that  she  was 
at  the  house  in  the  wood,  where  he  was  directed  to  go  and 
take  away  his  horse.  While  Firouz  was  preparing  a  good 
retinue  to  conduct  the  princess  in  great  state  to  the  pal- 
ace, the  Indian  hastened  to  the  house  in  the  wood,  and 
told  the  keeper  he  was  sent  by  the  prince  to  conduct  her, 
on  the  horse,  to  the  capital;  and  that  the  whole  court  and 
people  were  waiting  with,  impatience  for  the  wonderful 
sight. 

The  keeper  knew  that  the  Indian  had  been  imprisoned 
on  account  of  the  prince's  absence  ;  and,  seeing  him  now 
at  liberty,  he  believed  all  he  said.  He  presented  the  trai- 
tor to  the  princess,  who  not  doubting  but  he  came  from 
Firouz,  readily  agreed  to  go  with  him.  The  Indian,  over- 
joyed at  his  success,  mounted  his  horse,  took  the  princess 
behind  him,  and  turning  the  peg,  the  horse  immediately 
ascended  into  the  air.  The  king  and  his  whole  court  were 
on  the  road  to  the  house  in  the  wood,  to  conduct  the  prin- 
cess of  Bengal  from  thence  to  the  palace  ;  when  the  Indian, 


372  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  brave  them,  and  revenge  the  severe  treatment  he  Lad 
received,  passed  several  times  over  their  heads  with  hia 
prize.  The  rage  and  grief  of  the  king  were  extreme.  lie 
loaded  the  ravisher  with  a  thousand  execrations,  in  which 
he  was  joined  by  the  courtiers  and  people.  The  Indian, 
having  expressed  his  contempt  for  them,  and  his  triumph 
over  the  king  and  his  son,  his  horse  set  forward,  and  was 
presently  out  of  sight. 

But  who  can  describe  the  horror  and  despair  of  Firouz, 
when  he  saw  his  beloved  princess  torn  from  him  by  a  vile 
Indian,  whom  he  before  detested;  and  found  himself  un- 
able to  afford  her  the  least  assistance.  At  first  he  aban- 
doned himself  to  despair  ;  but  recollecting  that  such  a 
conduct  would  neither  recover  the  princess  nor  punish  the 
ravisher,  he  restrained  his  affliction,  and  began  to  consider 
how  he  could  best  effect  these  desirable  purposes.  He  put 
on  the  habit  of  a  dervis,  and  left  the  palace  the  same  even- 
ing, uncertain  which  way  to  go,  but  determined  not  to 
return  till  he  had  found  his  princess  again,  and  could 
bring  her  with  him. 

In  the  meantime,  the  Indian  having  pursued  his  jour- 
ney for  several  hours,  alighted  in  a  wood,  near  the  capital 
of  Caschmire.  As  he  was  hungry  himself,  and  doubted 
not  but  the  princess  was  so  too,  he  left  her  by  the  side  of 
a  brook,  and  flew  away  on  the  horse  to  the  city,  to  pro- 
cure provisions.  The  princess  made  the  best  use  in  her 
power  of  his  absence  ;  and  though  faint  for  want  of  food, 
she  travelled  on,  and  had  got  a  considerable  distance  from 
the  place  where  the  ravisher  left  her,  when  she  had  the 
mortification  to  see  him  return,  and  alight  close  by  her; 
for  the  Indian  had  wished  to  be  set  down  wherever  the 
princess  was,  and  the  horse  always  obeyed  the  desire  of 
the  rider. 

The  Indian  produced  some  wine  and  provisions,  and  ate 
heartil}',  urging  her  to  follow  his  example,  which  she 
thought  it  best  to  do.  When  they  had  done,  he  drew  near 
and  began  to  take  certain  liberties  with  the  princess, 
which  she  repulsed  with  indignation.  The  slave,  irritated 
at  this    opposition,  determined  to  use  violence,  and  had 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS.  313 

begun  to  do  so,  when  her  outcries  drew  a  company  of  horse- 
men to  her  assistance. 

They  proved  to  be  the  sultan  of  Caschmire  and  his  at- 
tendants, returning  from  a  day's  hunting.  When  the  sul- 
tan demanded  of  the  Indian  why  he  used  the  lady  so 
roughly,  he  boldly  answered  that  she  was  his  wife  ;  but 
the  princess,  though  she  knew  not  the  quality  of  the  sul- 
tan, besought  his  protection,  and  declared,  that  by  the 
basest  deceit  only  she  had  been  thrown  into  the  power  of 
such  a  reptile. 

The  sultan  of  Caschmire  was  very  amorous.  The  dis- 
order and  distress  of  the  princess  added  to  her  beauty, 
and  excited  the  desires  of  the  monarch.  He  was  not  nice 
in  gratifying  them  ;  and  judging  that,  whether  the  Indian 
was  the  husband  or  the  ravisher  of  the  lady,  he  would  be 
best  out  of  the  way,  he  pretended  to  be  much  enraged 
against  him,  and  ordered  his  head  to  be  struck  off  imme- 
diately. He  then  conducted  the  princess  to  his  palace, 
and  directed  his  attendants  to  bring  the  horse  after  them, 
though  he  knew  nothing  of  the  use  of  it. 

The  princess  of  Bengal  rejoiced  at  her  deliverance.  She 
entertained  hopes  that  the  sultan  of  Caschmire  would  gen- 
erously restore  her  to  the  prince  of  Persia  ;  but  she  was 
much  deceived;  for  as  soon  as  the  sultan  learned  that  she 
was  daughter  to  the  king  of  Bengal,  he  altered  his  views 
with  respect  to  her.  He  determined  to  marry  her,  and 
that  no  untoward  circumstances  might  happen  to  prevent 
it,  he  gave  orders  for  the  necessary  preparations  to  be 
completed  by  the  next  day. 

In  the  morning,  the  princess  was  awakened  early  by  the 
sounding  of  trumpets,  the  beating  of  drums,  and  othir 
noisy  tokens  of  public  joy,  which  echoed  through  the  pal- 
ace and  city.  On  her  asking  the  cause  of  this  rejoicing, 
she  was  told  it  was  to  celebrate  her  marriage  with  their 
sultan,  which  was  to  take  place  presently. 

The  princess's  attachment  to  Firouz  would  have  made 

any  other  man's  address    disagreeable  to  her.     But  this 

conduct  of  the  sultan  of  Caschmire  in  proclaiming  their 

nuptials,  without  even  having  asked  her  consent,  at  onco 

32 


374  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTEETAINME.ITB. 

enraged  and  terrified  her.  She  was  entirely  in  his  power; 
and  the  disrespect  he  had  paid  her,  convinced  her  that  sh« 
had  everything  to  fear  from  his  violence,  if  she  refused  i>j 
eompty  with  his  wishes. 

Thus  critically  situated,  she  bad  recourse  to  art.  She  arose 
and  dressed  herself  fancifully,  and  in  her  whole  behavior 
appeared  to  her  women  to  be  unsettled  in  her  intellects. 
The  suitan  was  soon  apprised  of  this  misfortune,  and  on 
his  approach  she  put  on  the  appearance  of  frenzy,  and 
endeavored  to  fly  at  him;  and  this  fury  she  ever  after  af- 
fected whenever  he  came  in  her  sight.  The  sultan  was. 
much  disturbed  at  this  unfortunate  event,  as  he  thought 
it,  and  offered  large  rewards  to  any  physician  who  could 
cure  her,  but  the  princess  .would  not  suffer  any  one  to 
come  near  her,  so  that  all  hope  of  her  recovery  began  to 
be  despaired  of. 

During  this  interval,  Firouz,  disguised  as  a  dervis,  had 
travelled  through  many  provinces,  full  of  grief,  and  un- 
certain which  way  to  direct  his  course  in  search  of  his 
beloved  princess.  At  last,  passing  through  a  town  in  In- 
dia, he  heard  an  account  that  a  princess  of  Bengal  had  run 
mad  on  the  day  of  the  celebration  of  her  nuptials  with  the 
sultan  of  Caschmire.  Slender  as  was  the  hope  that  such 
a  report  gave  him,  he  resolved  to  travel  to  the  capital  of 
that  kingdom;  where,  when  he  arrived,  he  had  the  happi- 
ness to  find  he  had  not  journeyed  in  vain.  He  learned  all 
the  particulars  of  her  having  been  delivered  from  the  In- 
dian by  their  sultan,  and  that  the  very  next  day  she  was 
seized  with  madness. 

Firouz  saw  at  once  the  reason  of  the  princess's  conduct, 
and. was  delighted  with  this  tender  proof  of  her  love  and 
constancy  to  him.  All  the  difficulty  which  remained,  was 
to  obtain  an  opportunity  of  speaking  to  her.  To  gain  this, 
he  put  3n  the  habit  of  a  physician,  and,  presenting  himself 
to  the  sultan,  undertook  to  cure  the  princess. 

His  services  being  accepted,  he  desired  first  to  see  her, 
without  being  seen  by  her.  For  this  purpose  he  was  con- 
veyed into  a  closet,  whence  he  saw  her  unobserved ;  she 
was  carelessly  singing  a  song,  in  which  she  dep.ored  her 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT  8.  375 

unhapp3T  fate,  which  had  forever  deprived  her  of  the  ob- 
ject she  loved  so  tenderly.  When  he  quitted  the  closet, 
he  told  the  sultan  she  was  not  incurable,  but  that  it  was 
necessary  for  him  to  speak  with  her  alone  ;  and  that  not- 
withstanding her  violent  fits  at  the  sight  of  physicians,  he 
knew  how  to  make  her  attend  to  him. 

As  the  princess  had  been  long  thought  incurable,  the 
sultan  made  no  difficulty  of  complying  with  the  supposed 
physician's  request.  As  soon  as  he  entered  her  apartment, 
she  began  to  rave  at  him  in  her  usual  furious  manner,  on 
which  he  went  up  close  to  her,  and  said,  in  a  low  voice, 
"  I  am  the  prince  of  Persia." 

The  princess  ceased  to  rave,  and  the  attendant  withdrew, 
rejoiced  at  this  proof  of  the  physician's  abilities.  After 
mutual  congratulations,  Firouz  acquainted  her  with  the 
plan  he  had  formed  for  her  deliverance.  He  then  returned 
to  the  sultan,  who  demanded  eagerly  what  hopes  he  now 
entertained.  The  pretended  physician  shook  his  head, 
and  said,  "All  depends  upon  a  mere  chance ;  the  princess, 
a  few  hours  before  she  was  taken  ill,  had  touched  some- 
thing that  was  enchanted  ;  unless  I  can  obtain  that  some- 
thing, be  it  what  it  may,  I  cannot  cure  her." 

The  sultan  of  Caschmire  presently  recollected  the  horse, 
which  was  still  preserved  in  his  treasury.  He  showed  it 
to  the  imaginary  physician,  who,  on  seeing  it,  very  gravely 
said,  "I  congratulate  your  majesty  on  the  certainty  of  my 
success.  Let  this  horse  be  brought  out  into  the  great 
square  before  the  palace,  and  let  the  princess  attend;  I 
will  engage  in  a  few  minutes  she  shall  be  perfectly  cured." 

Accordingly,  the  following  morning  the  horse  was  placed 
in  the  middle  of  the  squai-e,  and  the  supposed  physician 
drew  a  large  circle,  and  placed  around  it  chafing  dishes, 
with  a  little  fire  in  each.  The  sultan,  full  of  expectation, 
with  all  his  nobles  and  ministers  of  state,  attended.  The 
princess  being  brought  out  veiled,  was  conducted  within 
the  circle,  and  placed  by  the  physician  on  the  saddle  of 
the  enchanted  horse.  He  then  went  round  to  each  chafing 
dish,  and  threw  in  a  certain  drug,  which  presently  raised 
such    a   cloud  of  smoke,  that  neither  the  physician,  the 


376  ARABTAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

princess,  nor  the  horse,  could  be  seen  through  it.  At  thai 
instant  the  prince  of  Persia  mounted  the  horse;  and, 
turning  the  peg,  while  the  horse  ascended  into  the  air,  he 
distinctly  pronounced  these  words  :  "  Sultan  of  Caschmire, 
when  thou  wouldst  marry  princesses  who  implore  thy 
protection,  learn  first  to  obtain  their  consent." 

The  same  day  the  prince  of  Persia  and  his  beloved 
princess  arrived  safely  at  his  father's  court,  when  their 
nuptials  were  immediately  celebrated  with  the  greatest 
splendor. 

THE    STORY    OP    PRINCE  AHMED  AND    THE    PAIRY    PARIBANON. 

There  was  a  sultan  named  Mirza,  who  had  peaceably 
filled  the  throne  of  India  many  years ;  and  had  the  satis- 
faction in  his  old  age  to  have  three  sons,  the  imitators  of 
his  virtues,  and  a  niece,  who  was  the  ornament  of  the 
court.  The  eldest  of  the  princes  was  named  Houssain  ; 
the  second,  Ali ;  the  youngest,  Ahmed.  The  princess  was 
called  Nouronnihar,  or  daylight. 

Nouronnihar,  in  virtue,  beauty,  and  wit,  was  distin- 
guished beyond  all  the  princesses  of  her  time.  The  sul- 
tan proposed  to  marry  her,  when  she  became  of  a  proper 
age,  to  some  neighboring  prince;  but  when  that  time 
arrived,  his  sons  were  each  of  them  passionately  in  love 
with  their  cousin.  The  sultan  saw  this  with  great  con- 
cern. He  dreaded  lest  this  rivalry  among  the  young  men 
should  destroy  their  happiness  and  his  own.  He  tried 
in  vain  to  persuade  each  in  turn  to  give  up  his  preten- 
sions, or  at  least  to  refer  his  claim  to  the  decision  of  the 
lady.  Having  reasoned  with  them  apart  to  no  purpose, 
the  sultan  called  them  together,  and  after  lamenting  tba4., 
they  all  so  obstinately  pursued  a  happiness  which  only 
one  of  them  could  enjoy,  he  proceeded  thus:  "  I  have,  my 
sons,  hit  upon  an  expedient,  which,  by  leaving  something 
to  chance,  and  more  to  diligence,  will,  I  hope,  decide  your 
contest,  without  destroying  your  fraternal  love.  I  would 
nave  each  of  you  travel  for  a  twelvemonth,  not  as  princes, 
but  as  private  merchants.  T  will  give  you  a  large  sum  of 
mmie}',  and  he  that  brings  home  the  greatest  rarity  shall 
receive  Nouronnihar  as  his  reward." 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  377 

The  proposal  was  so  fair  and  impartial,  that  tbe  three 
princes  readily  agreed  to  it.  Accordingly,  they  set  out 
the  next  morning,  each  attended  by  a  trusty  officer,  in  the 
habit  of  a  slave.  They  travelled  together  the  first  day; 
and  lay  at  an  inn  where  the  road  divided  in  three  different 
tracks.  They  supped  in  great  harmony,  and  agreed  to 
return  to  the  same  inn,  at  the  end  of  the  year,  and  wait 
for  each  other,  that  they  might  go  together  to  their 
father's  palace.  The  next  morning,  at  break  of  day,  they 
embraced  each  other,  and  mounted  their  horses,  each 
taking  a  different  road. 

Prince  Houssain  had  heard  much  of  the  grandeur, 
strength,  and  riches  of  the  kingdom  of  Bisnagar.  He 
bent  his  course  thither,  and  after  five  months'  severe  trav- 
elling, he  arrived  safe  in  the  capital  of  that  kingdom.  He 
lodged  in  a  khan  appointed  for  foreign  merchants,  and 
when  he  had  recovered  from  his  fatigue,  he  took  a  survey 
of  the  city. 

It  was  formed  into  four  divisions,  in  the  centre  of  which 
stood  the  royal  palace.  The  division  which  chiefly  en-* 
gaged  the  attention  of  the  prince  was  that  where  tbe 
merchants  sold  their  various  commodities.  It  was  large 
and  divided  into  many  streets,  all  vaulted,  and  shaded 
from  the  sun,  yet  very  light.  The  shops  were  all  of  a  size, 
and  built  exactly  alike.  All  the  people  that  dealt  in  the 
same  sort  of  goods  lived  in  one  street ;  as  did  also  the 
mechanics,  who  kept  their  shops  in  the  smaller  streets. 

Prince  Houssain  was  much  pleased  at  seeing  such  large 
stocks  of  all  sorts  of  merchandise.  The  finest  linens  from 
India,  painted  in  the  most  lively  colors  ;  silks  and  brocades 
from  Persia  ;  porcelain  from  Japan  and  China;  but  when 
he  came  to  the  shops  of  the  jewellers  and  goldsmiths,  the 
prodigious  quantity  of  jewels  of  every  sort,  and  of  wrought 
gold  and  silver,  astonished  him;  nor  was  he  less  amazed 
at  the  general  riches  of  the  people,  when  he  learned  that, 
except  the  bramins  and  others  who  professed  a  voluntary 
poverty,  there  was  scarce  an  Indian,  man  or  woman,  but 
what  wore  necklaces,  bracelets,  and  ornaments  of  pearl 
32* 


878  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and  other  jewels  about  their  legs  and  feet,  which  tppear'-cl 
with  great  lustre,  as  they  were  blacks. 

Another  matter  took  much  of  the  prince's  attention, 
which  was  the  great  number  of  rose-sellers  that  crowded 
the  streets;  for  the  Indians  were  such  great  admirers  of 
that  flower,  that  none  of  them  would  stir  without  a  nose- 
gay in  his  hand,  or  a  gai'land  on  his  head,  so  that  the  ail 
was  perfectly  perfumed. 

Having  fully  satisfied  his  curiosity,  he  began  to  apply 
himself  seriously  to  the  business  of  his  journey.  He 
passed  many  days  among  the  merchants,  and  became 
acquainted  with  many  of  them,  but  was  not  able  to  find 
anything  so  rare  as  to  meet  his  wishes. 

As  he  was  sitting  one  da}T  in  a  shop,  he  saw  a  crier  pass 
by  with  a  piece  of  tapestry  on  his  arm,  about  six  feet 
square,  which  he  cried  at  thirty  purses.  He  called  the 
crier,  and  examined  the  tapestry,  which  seemed  to  be  of 
so  ordinary  a  quality,  that  the  prince  could  not  compre- 
hend why  so  extravagant  a  price  was  set  on  it.  The  crier, 
who  took  him  for  a  merchant,  told  him,  as  he  was  survey- 
ing it,  that,  though  it  was  cried  at  thirty  purses,  be  had 
orders  to  raise  it  to  forty,  and  not  to  part  with  it  for  less. 
"  Certainly,"  said  the  prince,  "  there  must  be  some  merit 
in  this  tapestry,  which  one  cannot  see;  for  it  does  not 
appear  to  be  worth  so  many  purses  ! "  "  You  are  in  the 
right,"  replied  the  crier;  "the  reason  this  tapestry  is  of 
such  high  value  is,  that  whoever  sits  on  it  may  be  trans- 
ported in  an  instant  to  whatever  place  he  desires,  with- 
out being  stopped  by  any  obstacle." 

It  struck  Prince  Houssain  that  he  could  not  hope  to 
meet  with  a  greater  curiosity.  He  asked  the  crier  how 
he  should  be  convinced  it  possessed  such  a  quality ;  to 
which  he  replied,  "  I  suppose,  sir,  you  have  not  so  much 
money  about  you  ;  I  will  spread  the  tapestry,  and  we  will 
both  sit  on  it.  You  shall  form  the  wish  to  be  in  your 
khan,  and  if  we  are  not  both  there  immediately,  it  shall 
not  be  a  bargain."  To  this  fair  proposal  the  prince 
agreed.  The  experiment  was  made,  and  succeeded  com- 
oleteiy.  He  paid  the  crier  the  forty  purses,  and  congrat- 
ulated himself  on  his  o;ood-fortunc. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  319 

Houssain  could  have  returned  home  directly,  but  his 
honor  would  not  permit  him  to  violate  his  engagement 
with  his  brothers. 

He  dtvoted,  therefore,  the  remainder  of  the  year  to  the 
acquiring  of  knowledge.  He  visited  the  court  of  the  king 
of  Bisnagar,  and  viewed  everything  curious  in  the  city 
which  he  had  not  already  seen.  He  informed  himself  in 
everything  respecting  the  manners  and  police  of  the  coun- 
try, and  the  strength  and  riches  of  the  sovereign. 

Amidst  the  public  buildings,  his  attention  was  much 
engaged  by  a  temple  of  idols  which  was  built  of  brass. 
It  was  ten  cubits  square,  and  fifteen  high.  The  principal 
idol  was  the  height  of  a  man,  of  massive  gold;  its  eyes 
were  rubies,  so  artificially  set,  that  it  seemed  to  look  at 
the  spectator  in  whatever  direction  he  stood.  There  was 
also  another  very  curious  temple  at  a  little  distance  from 
the  metropolis,  in  the  midst  of  a  large  plain,  which  was 
formed  into  an*elegant  garden  ;  there  was  raised  a  terrace, 
in  the  middle  of  which  was  a  temple  adorned  with  a  great 
variety  of  paintings  and  sculptures. 

Superstitious  ceremonies  were  performed  every  night 
and  morning  in  this  temple,  and  these  were  always  fol- 
lowed, by  sports,  music,  dancing,  and  feasting.  The  min- 
isters of  this  temple  were  supported  entirely  by  the  offer- 
ings of  pilgrims  who  came  in  great  numbers  from  the 
most  distant  parts  of  the  kingdom. 

Before  Prince  Houssain  left  the  city,  there  was  a  solemn 
feast  celebrated,  at  which  all  the  governors  and  judges  of 
towns,  and  the  most  celebrated  bramins,  were  obliged  to 
bo  present,  though,  some  lived  so  far  off  as  to  be  four 
months  in  coming.  At  this  meeting,  the  king  gave  sol- 
emn audiences  to  the  travellers,  and  to  many  other  stran- 
gers who  applied.  After  which  the  assembly  resembled 
an  immense  fair,  where  musicians,  stage-players,  and 
other  artists  endeavored  to  engage  the  attention  of  the 
people.  Many  of  these  performed  their  amusements  on 
castles  erected  on  the  backs  of  elephants,  whose  trunks, 
ears,  and  bodies  were  painted  in  very  grotesque  characters. 
These  unwieldy  animals  were  trained  by  th^ir  masters 


380  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  display  tricks  which  show  great  docility  in  the  beast. 
One  of  them  surprised  Prince  Houssain  by  standing  with 
his  forefeet  on  a  post,  and  beating  time  to  music  with  bis 
trunk.  Another  performed  a  more  extraordinary  feat 
nearly  of  the  same  nature;  for,  though  placed  on  a 
board  which  formed  a  seesaw,  and  was  balanced  by 
weights  at  the  other  end,  he  still,  amidst  that  motion  so 
unnatural  to  him,  beat  time  also  to  music  with  great 
exactness. 

As  the  time  of  returning  drew  on,  Houssain  began  to  be 
impatient.  His  passion  for  his  lovely  cousin  had  increased 
by  absence,  and  he  fancied  he  should  be  more  easy  if  he 
was  nearer  to  her.  He  caused,  therefore,  the  officer  who 
attended  him  to  sit  down  with  him  on  the  tapestry,  and 
they  were  instantly  transported  to  the  inn,  at  which  he 
had  agreed  to  meet  his  brothers ;  where  he  appeared  as  a 
merchant,  till  they  arrived. 

Prince  Ali,  the  second  brother,  went  to  the  capital  of 
Persia,  where  he  passed  much  of  his  time  in  the  bezestein, 
among  the  merchants.  As  he  was  conversing  with  some 
of  them,  he  observed  a  salesman  in  the  market,  with  an 
ivory  perspective  glass  in  his  hand,  about  a  foot  long, 
which  he  offered  to  sell,  demanding  fifty  purses  for  it. 

The  salesman  presented  it  to  the  prince,  who  had  the 
complaisance  to  receive  it  from  him,  though  he  thought 
he  was  mad  to  ask  such  a  price  for  it.  He  fitted  it  to 
look  through,  and  the  salesman  was  about  to  explain  the 
use  of  it,  but  that  was  rendered  unnecessary;  for  as  Nou- 
ronnihar  was  ever  present  to  the  prince's  imagination,  ha 
chanced,  as  he  raised  the  glass  to  his  eye,  to  wish  he  couli 
see  her  with  it.  He  was  astonished  when,  on  looking 
through  the  glass,  he  beheld  the  princess  at  her  toilet, 
laughing,  with  her  women  about  her. 

He  put  the  glass  to  bis  eye  the  second  time,  and  wished 
to  see  his  father;  when  he  immediately  saw  the  sultan 
eittingon  his  throne,  in  the  midst  of  his  council.  He  tried 
the  glass  again  by  desiring  to  see  first  his  brother  Hous- 
sain, and  then  his  brother  Ahmed ;  in  both  which  cases  he 
succeeded. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  381 

Prince  Ali  considered  this  glass  as  a  curiosity  thai  could 
nowhere  be  matched.  He  paid  the  sum  demanded  for  it, 
and  was  overjoyed  at  his  bargain,  being  assured  that 
neither  of  his  brothers  would  be  able  to  meet  with  any 
thing  so  curious,  and  that  the  princess  Nouronnihar  would 
be  the  reward  of  his  fatigue  and  trouble. 

Prince  Ahmed  took  the  road  to  Samarcand,  where  he 
resided  some  time,  without  anything  of  consequence  oc- 
curring to  him.  He  associated  much  with  men  of  science, 
to  whom  his  abilities  rendered  him  an  agreeable  compan- 
ion. Among  these  respectable  associates  he  learned  that 
a  celebrated  philosopher  of  that  country  had  composed  an 
artificial  apple,  the  smell  of  which  cured  all  disorders; 
that  this  invention  had  been  of  no  use  to  the  author,  who 
being  seized  with  a  sudden  illness  a  great  way  from  home, 
where  his  apple  was,  had  died.  It  was  added  that  the 
widow  was  poor,  and  wished  to  sell  it ;  but  that  she  asked 
sixty  purses  for  it ;  no  one  in  that  country  was  rich  enough 
to  purchase. 

Ahmed  listened  to  this  discourse  with  great  attention. 
He  concluded  that  if  he  had  heard  a  true  account  of  this 
artificial  apple,  it  was  not  only  the  most  curious,  but  the 
most  useful  thing  in  the  world.  He  applied  to  the  widow 
of  the  philosopher,  and  having  by  repeated  experiments 
proved  the  virtues  of  the  apple,  he  paid  her  the  price  she 
demanded,  and  took  possession  of  it  with  the  highest  sat- 
isfaction. The  year  drawing  to  a  close,  he  joined  a  cara- 
van, and  arrived  in  perfect  health  at  the  inn,  where  he 
found  the  princes  Houssain  and  Ali  waiting  for  him. 

When  the  three  brothers  met,  they  embraced  each  other 
■with  great  affection.  After  some  general  conversation, 
Ali  asked  his  brother  how  long  since  they  had  arrived. 
"I  have  been  here,"  replied  Houssain,  "three  months." 
"  You  did  not  travel  far,  then,"  said  Ali.  "  I  was  five 
months  before  I  reached  the  end  of  my  journey,"  answered 
Houssain.  "  and  then  stayed  four  months  at  the  city  1 
then  arrived  at."  "I  cannot  comprehend  how  this  is  pos- 
sible," replied  Ali,  "unless  you  flew  back!" 

Houssain,  without  answering  Ali,  addressed  himself  to 


382  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

both  Lis  brothers,  and  said,  "As  we  are  within  a  day'8 
journey  of  our  father's  court,  and  our  hopes  resecting 
our  beloved  cousin  must  soon  be  decided,  let  us,  with  the 
frankness  becoming  brothers,  produce  now  our  curiosities, 
that  we  may  judge  to  whom  our  father  will  give  the  pref- 
erence." He  then  produced  his  tapestry,  and  told  them 
the  qualities  of  it ;  at  the  same  time  remarking  to  his 
brother  Ali,  that  it  was  by  bis  tapestry  only  that  he  could 
explain  the  riddle  of  his  journey  and  return. 

Prince  Ali  produced  his  perspective  glass,  and  described 
its  virtues,  after  which  he  put  it  into  the  hand  of  his  elder 
brother.  Houssain  raised  the  glass  to  his  eye,  and  wished 
to  see  the  princess  Nouronnihar.  Instantly  he  turned 
very  pale,  and  was  seized  with  great  agitation.  'Alas, 
my  brothers!"  said  he,  "our  contest  is  at  an  end,  and  we 
shall  none  of  us  possess  our  lovely  cousin.  Nouronnihar 
now  lies  at  the  point  of  death  ! " 

Ali  and  Ahmed  each  hastily  snatched  the  glass,  and 
were  convinced  Houssain's  account  was  too  true.  The 
two  elder  brothers  were  resigning  themselves  to  despair, 
but  Ahmed  producing  his  apple,  said,  "  You  have  not 
asked  for  my  curiosity,  brothers,  which  can  in  an  instant 
repair  all  this  mischief.  If  a  sick  person,  though  in  the 
last  agonies,  smells  at  this  apple,  it  will  restore  him  to 
perfect  health  immediately.  All  we  have  to  do,  then,  is 
to  set  off  this  moment,  and  proceed  to  the  palace  with  the 
utmost  dispatch." 

Ali,  who  had  again  raised  the  glass  to  his  eye,  cried  out, 
"  It  will  be  too  late  !  it  will  be  too  late !  alas,  she  is  now 
expiring!"  Houssain,  hearing  this,  spread  his  tapestry 
hastily,  and  placing  his  brothers  on  it,  wished  them  and 
himself  in  the  princess's  bedchamber.  They  found  them- 
selves there  in  an  instant.  Ahmed,  not  having  had  time 
to  put  by  his  apple,  had  it  in  his  hand,  and  had  the  pres- 
ence of  mind  to  run  immediately  to  the  expiring  princess, 
and  by  putting  it  to  her  nose  arrested  the  fleeting  spirit. 

After  the  apple  had  been  held  to  her  for  a  short  time, 
Nouronnihar  seemed  as  if  she  was  awakened  from  a 
cranee.     Hir  face  was  no  longer  convulsed,  she  breathod 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  383 

freely,  she  opened  her  eyes,  and  began  to  converse  with 
her  attenc  ants  ;  she  presently  found  herself  perfectly  re- 
covered. Her  slaves  had  been  terrified  at  the  sudden  ap- 
pearance of  three  men  among  them;  and  the  eunuchs  were 
ready  to  punish  their  intrusion,  but  recollected  the  princes 
in  tim^.  When  the  attendants  saw  the  effect  of  Ahmed's 
apple,  they  were  overjoyed:  the  princess  also  paid  her  re- 
spects to  her  cousins,  and  expressed  hep  gratitude  to  Ah- 
med. After  which  the  princes  withdrew,  and  went  to 
throw  themselves  at  the  feet  of  the  sultan. 

Their  father  received  them  with  the  greatest  joy,  ac- 
cepted and  applauded  their  presents  as  they  deserved  ; 
and  congratulated  them  as  well  on  their  safe  return  as  on 
the  recovery  of  the  princess.  But  when  they  pressed  him 
to  decide  their  pretensions  to  Nouronnihar,  and  each 
urged  the  use  of  his  acquisition  on  the  late  alarming  oc- 
casion, he  spoke  to  them  as  follows:  "How  can  I  justly 
determine  between  you,  my  children,  on  this  interesting 
occasion  ?  Your  apple,  my  dear  Ahmed,  restored  your 
cousin  to  life ;  but  without  Ali's  glass  jtou  would  not  have 
known  her  danger.  Nor  would  even  your  knowledge  of 
that  danger,  and  your  possessing  the  means  of  relieving 
her,  have  been  of  the  least  use,  had  not  Houssain's  tap- 
estry conveyed  you  hither  as  it  did.  Your  presents,  in 
my  opinion,  are  equally  valuable ;  and  you  share  among 
you  the  glory  of  having  preserved  the  princess. 

"But  I  will  no  longer  suffer  a  contest  to  continue,  so 
fatal  to  the  peace  of  us  all.  I  will  adopt  another  mode 
of  determining  your  fortune  with  your  cousin.  The  long 
bow  is  a  manly  and  princely  exercise.  Provide  yourselves 
with  bows  and  arrows  by  to-morrow  morning,  and  I  will 
give  the  princess  to  him  who  shoots  farthest." 

The  next  morning  the  thret  princes  attended  at  the 
place  appointed  ;  and  the  sultan  having  appointed  judges, 
Prince  Houssain  shot  an  arrow,  which  flew  a  great  dis- 
tance. Ali  shot  next,  much  beyond  him.  Ahmed  then 
shot,  and  though  it  was  universally  believed  that  he  had 
shot  farthest,  yet  as  his  arrow  could  not  be  found,  the 
judges,  notwithstanding  his  earnest  remonstrance,  deter- 


384  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

mined  in  favor  of  Prince  Ali,  who  accordingly  espoused 
the  lovely  JSTouronnihar  a  few  days  afterward. 

Houssain  would  not  honor  the  feast  with  his  presence 
He  could  not  bear  to  see  the  woman  he  loved,  in  the  arms 
of  his  rival,  though  that  rival  was  a  beloved  brother.  In 
the  transport  of  his  grief  he  renounced  his  succession  to 
the  crown,  and  all  intercourse  with  the  world,  and  joined 
a  society  of  dervises,  whose  rules  were  unusually  rigid 
and  austere. 

Ahmed  also  refused  to  be  present  at  his  brother's  nup- 
tials, though  he  did  not  suffer  his  disappointment  to  carry 
him  to  such  excess  as  his  brother  Houssain  indulged.  As 
he  could  not  imagine  what  had  become  of  his  arrow,  he 
went  in  search  of  it,  to  the  place  where  Houssain  and  Ali's 
were  found.  He  proceeded,  looking  carefully  on  each  side, 
till  he  had  got  so  far  that  he  gave  up  all  thought  of 
finding  it.  He  pm*sued  his  journey,  indulging  his  melan- 
choly reflections,  till  he  came  to  some  rocks  which  were 
four  leagues  distant  from  the  place  where  he  set  out,  and 
which  bounded  his  walk  that  wTay,  as  they  were  in- 
accessible. 

When  Ahmed  came  to  these  rocks,  he  perceived  an  ar- 
row, which  he  picked  up,  and  was  astonished  to  find  it 
was  the  same  he  had  shot  away.  It  appeared  to  have  re- 
bounded from  the  rock.  The  apparent  impossibility  of 
any  man  shooting  an  arrow  so  far,  made  the  prince  con- 
clude there  must  be  something  supernatural  in  the  matter. 
His  heart  began  to  indulge  in  happy  presages,  •  and  to 
hope  that  his  disappointment  would  be  made  up  to  him 
by  means  of  some  event  which  this  interposition  would 
produce. 

While  he  meditated  on  these  matters,  he  entered  imper- 
ceptibly some  of  the  irregular  breaks  of  the  rocks,  in  one 
of  which  he  perceived  an  iron  door.  He  pushed  against 
it,  and  it  opened,  when  he  found  an  easy  descent,  which 
he  walked  down,  with  his  arrow  in  his  hand.  He  had  not 
advanced  many  steps,  before  he  entered  a  spacious  and 
beautiful  garden,  and  at  a  little  distance  he  saw  a  mag 
nificent  pa? ace.     As  he  drew  near  to  it,  he  was  met  by  a 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT  S.  385 

very  bea  itiful  lady;  her  air  was  graceful  and  majestic,  yet 
sweetly  easy  and  encouraging;  her  dress,  brilliant  be- 
yond imagination  ;  and  a  large  troop  of  handsome  and 
well-dressed  attendants  bespoke  her  quality.  She  received 
the  prince  with  a  bewitching  smile,  saying,  "Prince  Ah- 
med, you  are  welcome." 

Ahmed  paid  his  respects  to  her  in  the  best  manner  he 
was  able;  for  such  a  succession  of  wonders  had  thrown 
him  into  confusion.  He  thanked  her  for  bidding  him  wel- 
come to  that  elegant  retreat,  where  he  had  reason  to  fear 
he  was  an  intruder,  and  rejoiced  that  he  had  the  honor  to 
be  known  by  so  charming  a  lady.  They  drew  near  the 
palace,  and  the  lady  invited  him  to  go  in  and  hear  where 
he  was,  and  how  she  came  to  know  him. 

When  they  entered  the  hall,  the  lady  said  to  him,  "You 
are  surprised,  Ahmed,  that  I,  whom  you  have  never  seen 
before,  should  know  you.  To  remove  this  wonder,  learn 
then  that  I  am  a  fairy,  daughter  to  one  of  the  most  power- 
ful genii,  who,  your  religion  teaches  you,  inhabit  the  world, 
as  well  as  men.  My  name  is  Paribanon.  I  am  acquainted 
with  all  the  affairs  of  your  father's  court.  I  sold  you  the 
artificial  apple.  Ali  bought  his  perspective  glass,  and 
Houssain  his  tapestry,  of  me.  1  am  not,  you  find,  unac- 
quainted with  your  concerns.  You  seemed  to  me  worthy 
of  a  more  happy  fate  than  that  of  possessing  the  princess 
Nouronnihar,  whose  husband  will  never  mount  a  throne. 
I  was  present  when  you  drew  your  arrow,  and,  foreseeing 
it  would  fall  short  of  Prince  Houssain's,  I  took  it  in  the 
air,  and  conveyed  it  to  the  rocks  where  you  found  it.  By 
this  means  I  have  led  you  hither.  And  it  will  be  much 
your  own  fault  if  this  visit  does  not  fix  your  happiness  on 
the  most  permanent  basis." 

The  fairy  pronounced  these  words  in  the  most  tender 
manner,  glancing  affectionately  at  the  prince,  yet  covered 
with  modest  confusion.  Ahmed  was  too  penetrating  to 
be  at  a  loss  in  understanding  the  beautiful  fairy.  Pariba- 
non as  far  excelled  the  princess  in  loveliness  of  person,  in 
sprightly  wit,  and  engaging  deportment,  as  she  did  in 
power  and  splendor  Ahmed  rejoiced  at  his  late  disap- 
3*  z 


S86  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

pointrneu ;;  and  resigning  his  whole  heart  to  the  charming 
Paribanon,  he  threw  himself  at  her  feet,  and  professed 
himself  happy  in  being  admitted  her  slave. 

The  sensible  fairy  then  raised  him  up,  and  said,  "My 
dear  Ahmed,  I  did  nof  bring  you  here  to  be  my  slave,  but 
my  husband.  You  will  not  wonder  I  am  thus  frank  with 
you,  when  I  tell  you  that  we  fairies  are  exempt  from  that 
trifling  coquetry  which  is  most  to  be  found  in  the  weakest 
of  mortal  females."  The  prince  on  his  knees  seized  her 
hand,  and  ravished  it  with  kisses.  "I  pledge  my  faith  to 
you,  madam,"  said  he,  "in  the  most  solemn  manner;  and 
vow  to  devote  my  whole  heart  to  you  without  the  least 
reserve."  "I  receive  your  faith,  my  dear  prince,"  replied 
the  fairy,  "  and  plight  you  mine  in  return  ;  and  now, 
according  to  the  custom  of  fairies,  you  are  my  husband, 
and  I  am  your  wife.  Our  marriages  are  contracted  with- 
out any  other  ceremonies." 

From  this  time  Prince  Ahmed  lived  with  his  beloved 
fairy,  enjoying  every  happiness.  The  society  of  his  charm- 
ing Paribanon,  whose  virtues  and  elegant  manners  contin- 
ually increased  his  attachment  to  her,  gave  him  the  most 
rational  and  heartfelt  delight. 

Several  months  passed  away  in  this  manner,  when  the 
recollection  of  his  father,  whom  Ahmed  always  loved  and 
honored,  and  the  consideration  of  the  pain  the  sultan  must 
suffer  in  his  absence,  broke  in  upon  the  prince's  felicity. 
He  mentioned  these  reflections  to  the  fairy,  and  expressed 
a  great  desire  to  pay  his  father  a  visit;  but  Paribanon 
upbraided  him,  that  his  affection  for  her  was  growing 
cool.  She  was  so  much  affected  at  this  idea,  that  it  was 
with  difficulty  the  prince  could  pacify  her  by  the  most, 
earnest  assurance  of  unceasing  love,  and  renouncing  al! 
thoughts  of  visiting  the  sultan. 

Notwithstanding  Paribanon's  jealousy,  that  prince  de- 
served all  his  son's  attention.  It  was  with  the  greatest 
reluctance  that  he  had  decided  the  contest  between  his 
sons ;  dreading  those  consequences  which  followed  that 
event.  He  was  soon  informed  of  the  resolution  of  Princo 
Houssain,  and  of  the  retreat  which   he  had  chosen.     And 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  387 

though  he  regretted  this  determination  of  his  eldest  son. 
yet  the  knowledge  of  his  situation  afforded  him  some 
comfort.  But  of  Prince  Ahmed  he  .could  obtain  no  in- 
formation. He  even  applied  to  a  sorceress  of  great  abili- 
ties, to  inquire  after  him.  Yet  with  the  utmost,  exertions 
she  could  only  learn  that  he  was  yet  alive ;  but  not  the 
least  particular  of  his  present  situation.  This  uncertainty 
was  the  cause  of  great  sorrow  to  the  sultan. 

Although  Ahmed  gave  up  his  wish  to  visit  his  father,  in 
compliance  with  the  desire  of  the  fairy,  yet  he  could  not 
refrain  from  frequently  mentioning  him,  and  never  without 
a  sigh.  This  conduct  excited  reflection  in  the  breast  of  Par- 
ibanon..  She  considered  that  she  had  no  reason  to  doubt 
the  affection  of  her  husband,  who  appeared  every  day  more 
fond  of  her ;  but  how  long  that  affection  would  last,  if  she 
kept  him  under  perpetual  restraint,  she  had  just  cause  to 
fear.  She  was  naturally  very  benevolent;  and  the  consid- 
eration that  she  prevented  a  worthy  son  from  wiping  away 
the  tears  of  an  affectionate  father,  shed  on  his  account, 
was  more  than  she  could  bear.  "  I  am  sensible,  my  dear 
Ahmed,"  said  she  one  day  to  the  prince,  "of  the  restraint 
you  put  upon  yourself,  in  suppressing  your  wishes  to  visit 
your  royal  father.  When  I  first  refused  you,  I  was  in- 
duced to  do  so  by  the  tender  fear  lest  the  naturally  vola- 
tile disposition  of  a  young  man  might  lead  you  to  forsake 
me.  But  I  should  not  deserve  your  tenderness,  if,  after 
your  having  thus  long  made  me  so  great  a  sacrifice,  I 
could  doubt  your  constancy  and  steady  affection.  Go, 
then,  pay  your  duty  to  the  sultan ;  and  let  him  know  you 
will  attend  him  for  that  purpose  every  month.  Do  not, 
however,  let  me  long  regret  your  absence  ;  nor  on  any 
account  acquaint  your  father  with  your  marriage,  or 
where  you  reside.  Beg  of  him  to  be  satisfied  in  knowing 
you  are  happy." 

Ahmed  expressed  the  most  lively  gratitude  to  the  fairy, 
and  promised  to  observe  all  her  instructions.  The  next 
morning  he  set  forward  for  the  sultan's  court,  attended  by 
twenty  gentlemen,  well  mounted.  They  soon  arrived  at 
the  c'ty,  where  Ahmed  was  received  by  the  people  with 


388  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

acclamations  of  joy.  When  he  arrived  at  the  palace,  his 
father  embraced  him  with  great  affection,  kind'y  chiding 
him  for  his  absence,  and  inquiring  what  had  befallen  him. 
The  prince  told  him  that  he  had  found  his  arrow  as  far 
off  as  the  black  rocks,  and  that  the  search  after  it  had 
been  attended  with  an  adventure  that  had  made  him  con- 
tented and  happy;  but  entreated  the  sultan  not  to  insist 
on  knowing  the  particulars.  The  tender  father  cheerfully 
acquiesced  ;  and,  after  three  days,  Ahmed  took  his  leave, 
promising  to  renew  his  visit«at  the  end  of  the  month. 

Ahmed  returned  to  the  fairy,  who  received  him  very 
joyfully.  Every  month  he  renewed  his  visit  to  his  father's 
court,  each  time  attended  more  splendidly  than  before. 
For  a  long  time  the  sultan  had  great  pleasure  in  these 
visits ;  but  some  of  the  busy  parasites  who  infest  every 
court,  began  to  instil  jealousies  into  his  mind,  under  pre- 
tence of  concern  for  his  safety,  which  destroyed  all  his 
happiness,  and  ended  most  fatally.  They  observed  to  the 
sultan,  that  on  every  visit  the  prince  came  attended  by  a 
different  retinue  ;  that  the  number  of  his  retainers,  there- 
fore, must  be  very  considerable,  and  the  magnificence  of 
their  appearance  every  time  increasing,  showed  their 
master's  wealth  was  inexhaustible.  Nor  was  this  all. 
The  freshness  of  their  clothes,  and  the  spirit  of  their 
horses,  sufficiently  proved  that  they  came  not  far.  "If, 
therefore,"  said  they,  "  the  prince  (who  everybody  knows 
was  extremely  mortified  at  losing  Nouronnihar)  should 
choose  to  resent  that  decision,  or  even  to  seize  the  crown, 
he  seems  to  have  sufficient  power  near  at  hand  to  execute 
such  an  enterprise.  At  least,  therefore,  it  would  be  pru- 
dent to  find  out  the  place  of  his  retirement,  which  he  so 
carefully  conceals." 

The  sultan  of  the  Indies  for  some  time  seemed  to  pay 
no  attention  to  these  remonstrances,  but  they  made  the 
deepest  impression  on  his  mind.  The  shouts  of  applause 
which  the  people  gave  to  the  prince,  whenever  he  was 
Been  in  the  cit}T,  became  now  a  torment  to  the  sultan.  He 
became  jealous  of  his  worthy  son;  and  the  ugh  he  con- 
cealed fron-  every  me,  as  much  as  possible,  his  ill-founded 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  389 

disgust,  yet  he  resolved  to  discover  his  retreat.  Fox  thia 
purpose  he  applied  to  the  sorceress  he  had  formerly  con- 
sulted, and  engaged  her  to  watch  his  son,  and  bring  him 
word  where  he  retired. 

The  sorceress  hid  herself  among  the  black  rocks  till 
she  saw  the  prince  and  his  attendants  pass  by  her.  She 
continued  looking  after  them,  when  all  of  a  sudden  they 
disappeared.  She  followed  them  to  the  brinks  of  the  rocks, 
and  examined  them  with  the  greatest  attention  on  each 
side,  till  she  came  to  the  farther  end,  without  being  able 
to  discover  the  iron  door  through  which  the  prince  and 
his  retinue  had  passed ;  for  that  was  seen  only  by  those 
whom  the  fairy  Paribanon  wished  to  receive. 

The  magician  returned  disappointed ;  but  when  the 
prince's  next  monthly  visit  drew  near,  she  returned  to 
the  rocks,  and  as  soon  as  his  train  approached  her,  she 
contrived  to  lie  on  the  side  of  the  road  and  appear  as  if 
expiring.  Ahmed  was  so  moved  at  her  supposed  distress 
that  he  ordered  her  to  be  taken  up,  and  returned  with  all 
his  attendants  through  the  iron  gate,  and  besought  the 
fairy  to  assist  her. 

Paribanon  ordered  the  sorceress  to  be  led  away,  and 
supplied  with  whatever  she  stood  in  need  of.  Then  turn- 
ing to  the  prince,  she  said,  "I  admire,  my  dear  Ahmed, 
the  goodness  of  your  heart ;  but  in  this  instance  I  fear  it 
will  operate  to  your  prejudice.  This  woman  is  an  im- 
postor. She  is  not  sick;  and  whatever  her  views  are  in 
persuading  you  to  think  so,  they  certainly  cannot  be 
friendly  ones."  "I  never,"  replied  the  prince,  "did,  or 
intended  any  injury  to  anyone;  nor  can  I  suppose  any 
one  would  injure  me.  But  if  I  am  mistaken,  and  have  an 
enemy,  I  will  not  therefore  withhold  from  doing  good 
whenever  I  have  an  opportunity."  He  then  again  took 
leave  of  the  fairy,  and  set  forward  for  the  city. 

The  sorceress  having  discovered  the  prince's  retreat, 
pretended  to  be  much  recovered  by  the  medicines  which 
had  been  given  her;  she  begged  leave  to  return  thanks 
to  Paribanon,  and  to  pursue  her  journey. 

The  fairy  received  her,  sitting  on  her  throne  of  massy 
33* 


390  ARABIAN    NIGHT8'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

gold  and  surrounded  with  the  utmost  splendor.  After 
she  had  paid  her  compliments,  the  fairy  ordered  t  ivo  of 
her  attendants  to  show  her  the  palace,  and  then  to  permit 
her  to  depart.  They  led  her  accordingly  through  all  the 
apartments,  and  displayed  before  her  such  a  profusion  of 
riches  as  she  had  no  idea  of.  For  Paribanon,  having  no 
doubt  but  she  came  as  a  spy  from  some  enemy  of  her  hus- 
band, was  determined  she  should  go  away  with  such  an 
idea  of  his  situation  as  should  excite  respect  if  not  awe. 
The  sorceress  was  then  conducted  to  the  iron  gate  and 
dismissed ;  but  what  much  troubled  her  was,  that  though 
she  turned  round  immediately  to  mark  the  gate,  it  had 
become  invisible  ;  and  on  turning  a  second  time,  she  found 
herself  at  the  entrance  of  the  rocks,  far  beyond  the  place 
where  the  prince  took  pity  on  her. 

From  the  time  the  sultan  had  suffered  himself  to  bo 
irritated  against  his  son,  he  had  neglected  to  consult  with 
his  old  and  faithful  vizier  ;  he  had  given  himself  up  to  a 
cabal  of  interested  advisers,  who  sought  only  to  promote 
their  own  profit  by  a  pretended  zeal  for  their  master's 
safety.  To  them  he  privately  introduced  the  sorceress, 
and  heard  her  report  in  their  presence. 

If  the  weak  sultan  feared  his  son  before,  this  account 
of  his  unbounded  wealth  made  him  envy  and  hate  him. 
His  advisers  were  at  no  loss  to  discover  this,  and  every 
one,  to  gain  his  master's  favor,  seemed  to  outvie  the  other 
in  proposing  violent  measures.  Some  counselled,  as  the 
prince  was  now  on  the  spot,  to  cut  him  off  without  delay. 
The  most  lenient  wished  him  and  his  attendants  impris- 
oned for  life.  Amidst  these  desperate  proposals  the.  sor- 
ceress begged  leave  to  offer  a  different  expedient. 

"An  attempt  to  destroy  Prince  Ahmed  by  violence,  pro- 
tected as  he  is  by  a  retinue  of  fairies  and  genii,  would  not 
only  be  in  vain,  but  would  certainly  excite  the  vengeance 
of  Paribanon.  I  would  recommend  a  very  different  cou- 
duct  toward  him  :  let  the  prince  know  you  are  acquainted 
with  his  having  married  a  fairy,  and  engage  him  to  task 
her  power  in  procuring  certain  advantages  for  you.  If 
he  succeeds  with  the  first,  you  have  to  go  on  demanding 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    EN JERTAINMENTS.  391 

something  still  more  difficult,  till  you  tire  out  his  patience, 
and  he  will  then  cease  these  dangerous  visits,  which  give 
him  so  much  influence  over  the  people." 

Every  one  a  improved  of  this  advice,  and,  agreeably  to  it, 
the  sultan,  next  day,  with  an  air  of  good-humor,  congrat- 
ulated his  son  on  his  marriage  with  a  fairy.  "I  rejoice," 
said  he,  "  at  this  fortunate  connection,  and  must  beg  you 
will  not  deny  me  your  influence  with  your  wife,  in  a  mat- 
ter I  have  so  much  at  heart.  I  want  a  pavilion  that  may 
be  carried  in  a  man's  hand,  and  yet  be  large  enough  to 
cover  a  numerous  army.  You  will  oblige  me  greatly  if 
you  will  persuade  your  wife  to  furnish  me  such  a  one." 

Prince  Ahmed  heard  with  surprise  and  pleasure  that 
his  father  knew  of  his  nuptials,  and  approved  them ;  but 
when  he  came  to  urge  so  extraordinary  a  demand,  the 
poor  prince  was  overwhelmed  with  confusion.  He  was 
very  desirous  of  being  excused ;  but  finding  the  sultan 
pressed  the  thing  upon  him:  "Your  commands,  sir,"  said 
he,  "  are  a  law  to  me.  I  will  ask  this  extraordinary  thing 
of  my  wife,  though  it  will  be  with  great  reluctance.  If  I 
succeed,  I  will  return  immediately;  if  I  fail,  you  will  know 
1  have  done  so,  by  my  paying  my  respects  to  you  no  more." 

Ahmed  took  leave  of  the  sultan  with  much  discompos- 
ure. On  his  return  home,  Paribanon  presently  saw  some- 
thing had  happened  to  displease  him.  In  answer  to  her 
inquiries,  he  told  her  the  demand  his  father  had  made,  and 
his  uneasiness  in  consequence  of  it.  "  I  have  ever,"  con- 
tinued he,  "  been  happy  in  loving  you,  and  being  loved  by 
you  ;  and  have  carefully  avoided  tasking  your  power;  nor 
should  anything  have  induced  me  to  do  it,  but  the  com- 
mand of  a  father.  What  vexes  me  most  is  the  request  he 
has  made,  at  once  exorbitant  in  the  idea  and  impossible 
U)  be  complied  with'."  Paribanon  heard  him  with  a  smile, 
and  after  praising  the  delicacy  of  his  love,  she  dispatched 
a  slave  to  her  treasurer,  with  orders  to  send  one  of  her 
smallest  pavilions.  The  slave  presently  returned  with  it 
in  her  hand,  and  presented  it  to  her  mistress,  who  gave 
it  to  her  husband. 

Ahmed  received  it  with  a  look  of  incredulity  ;  but  the 


392  ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

fairy  soon  convinced  him  of  his  mistake,  by  ordering  it  to 
be  fixed  up.  Next  morning  he  returned  to  court,  and  pre- 
sented it  to  his  father.  The  sultan,  little  imagining  there 
could  be  such  a  thing  as  the  tent  he  had  asked  for,  was 
surprised  to  see  him.  He  received  it  from  Ah  mod,  and 
ordered  it  to  be  set  up  in  the  plain,  when  he  found  it  large 
enough  to  shelter  an  army  twice  as  numerous  as  he  could 
bring  into  the  field.  The  prince  increased  his  wonder  by 
telling  him,  that  he  could  make  it  larger  or  smaller,  by  a 
wish,  according  to  the  army  it  was  to  cover. 

Mirza  received  his  son's  curious  present  with  cold  civil- 
ity, and  in  his  heart  conceived  a  still  greater  hatred  and 
jealousy  of  him.  He  again  consulted  the  sorceress,  and, 
by  her  advice,  he  addressed  him  in  the  evening,  before  the 
whole  court,  and  besought  him  to  obtain  for  him  some  of 
the  water  of  the  fountain  of  Lions.  "The  dangers  he 
must  face  to  obtain  this  water,"  said  the  sorceress,  "  are 
so  many,  that  it  is  hardly  possible  he  should  escape  them. 
And  if  he  falls,  your  majesty  will  be  happily  rid  of  him." 

When  Ahmed,  on  his  return  home,  related  this  new 
demand  of  his  father  to  Paribanon,  she  addressed  him 
thus:  "I  am  now  convinced,  my  dear  Ahmed,  that  the 
affections  of  the  sultan  are  alienated  from  you,  and  that 
he  meditates  your  destruction.  This  water  can  only  be 
obtained  at  your  own  risk,  not  by  my  power.  From  most 
of  the  dangers  attending  the  attempt  I  can  protect  you; 
but  I  cannot  preserve  the  sultan  from  the  punishment 
which  awaits  him,  if  he  persists  in  his  unnatural  conduct. 

"  The  fountain  of  Lions  is  situated  in  the  middle  of  a 
court,  the  entrance  of  which  is  guarded  by  four  lions. 
You  must  have  two  horses,  one  of  which  you  must  ride; 
and  on  the  other,  which  you  must  lead,  put  a  sheep  killed 
to-day,  and  divided!  into  four  quarters.'  Take  also  a  bottle 
to  fill  with  the  water.  Set  off  early  to-morrow  morning, 
and,  when  you  have  passed  the  iron  gate,  throw  this  clew 
of  thread  on  the  ground.  Follow  it  exactly,  and  you  will 
escape  all  other  difficulties,  till  you  come  to  a  pair  of  large 
folding-doors  which  will  open  at  your  approach.  You 
will  then  see  the  lions ;  throw  to  each  a  quarter  of  tha 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  393 

Bheop  us  you  ride  toward  them ;  fill  your  bottle  with  all 
possible  expedition  while  they  are  eating:  when  you  have 
accomplished  this,  you  may  return  without  apprehension 
as  the  lions  will  not  then  attempt  to  hurt  you." 

The  prince  obeyed  the  fairy's  directions,  and  succeeded 
On  his  return,  he  found  that  two  of  the  lions  followed 
him.  He  turned  about  and  drew  his  sabre  to  defend  him- 
self;  but  he  soon  found  that  unnecessary;  the  lions  ap« 
proached  with  the  utmost  gentleness,  one  passing  by  him 
went  before,  while  the  other  followed ;  and  thus  guarded 
him  till  he  came  to  his  father's  capital,  where  they  dis- 
appeared. 

He  presented  the  sultan  with  the  bottle  of  water  which 
he  had  procured  with  so  much  danger.  That  prince  ap- 
peared to  be  in  raptures  at  his  son's  obedience  and  success. 
But  the  hatred  he  had  so  causelessly  entertained  against 
his  dutiful  son,  now  became  inveterate.  In  the  evening 
he  sent  for  the  sorceress,  and  in  a  rage  charged  her,  as 
she  valued  her  life,  to  invent  a  task  for  Ahmed,  which  was 
not  to  be  thus  easily  accomplished.  She  was  terrified  at 
the  threats  of  the  sultan.  "  Sir,"  said  she,  "I  can  point 
out  a  task  for  the  prince,  which  will  be  attended  with  the 
utmost  danger ;  but  if  he  succeeds,  I  tremble  for  the  con- 
sequences to  }'ou  and  to  myself."  "  No  matter,"  replied 
the  sultan,  hastily,  "no  matter  for  the  consequences  to 
me  ;  and,  as  to  3"ou,  I  will  put  you  to  death  this  instant 
if  you  do  not  point  out  this  adventure,  which  may  relieve 
me  from  a  hated  rival,  by  whom  I  am  every  day  more  and 
more  eclipsed." 

The  sorceress  obeyed,  and  the  sultan,  fully  instructed, 
rseeived  his  son  the  next  morning  with  a  smile,  and  said 
to  him,  u  I  have  one  more  favor  to  request  of  you,  and  I 
desire  you  will  use  your  influence  with  the  fairy,  your 
wife,  to  gratify  me;  after  which  I  will  no  more  exact 
anything  from  your  obedience,  or  her  power.  Bring  me 
a  man,  not  above  a  foot  and  a  half  high,  whose  beard  is 
thirty  feet  long,  and  who  carries  an  iron  bar  of  five  hun- 
dred weight,  which  he  uses  as  a  quarter-statf."  Pnnce 
Ahmed  bowed  and  withdrew  in  silence. 


394  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8. 

On  his  return  home,  he  told  Paribanon,  with  great  sor- 
row, what  had  passed.  "I  am  now,"  said  he,  "too  well 
assured  that  my  father  is  become  my  enemy,  and  seeks 
these  extraordinary  demands  to  effect  my  destruction, 
^but,  as  he  declares  this  shall  be  his  last  request,  let  me, 
my  dear  fairy,  if  this  task  be  not  too  difficult,  entreat 
your  assistance."  "Nothing,"  replied  Paribanon,  "can 
be  more  easy  than  for  you  to  fulfil  this  command.  This 
man  is  ray  brother,  Schaibar.  His  disposition  is  very 
different  from  mine.  His  nature  is  crabbed  and  violent, 
and  his  resentment  always  fatal ;  yet,  if  not  provoked,  he 
is  kind  and  obliging.  I  will  send  for  him  immediately; 
but  be  sure  to  prepare  yourself  for  his  appearance,  and 
take  especial  care  not  to  show  fear  at  his  singular  and 
very  forbidding  figure." 

"Ah!  my  lovely  fairy,"  replied  Ahmed,  "if  Schaibar  is 
your  brother,  let  his  person  be  ever  so  disagreeable,  I  can 
never  see  him  but  with  sentiments  of  respect  and  affection." 

Paribanon  ordered  a  gold  chafing-dish  to  be  set,  with  a 
fire  in  it,  under  the  porch  of  the  palace ;  and  throwing  in 
some  perfume,  there  arose  a  thick  cloud  of  smoke,  soon 
after  which  the  fairy  said  to  Ahmed,  "See!  my  brother 
comes."  The  prince  immediately  saw  Schaibar  approach- 
ing, his  heavy  bar  on  his  shoulder,  his  beard  wound  around 
him,  a  pair  of  thick  mustachios  which  he  tucked  behind 
his  ears,  that  almost  covered  his  face;  his  little  eyes  set, 
deep  in  his  head,  which  was  very  large,  and  on  which  he 
wore  a  grenadier's  cap.  He  was  hump-backed,  and  his 
whole  appearance  the  most  ferocious  that  could  be 
imagined. 

Such  a  tremendous  figure  on  -any  other  occasion  would 
have  terrified  Ahmed  exceedingly;  but  being  prepared  for 
his  coming,  and  knowing  who  he  was,  the  prince  stood 
by  Paribanon  with  the  utmost  composure.  Schaibar,  as 
he  came  forward,  looked  at  Ahmed  in  such  a  manner  as 
was  enough  to  freeze  his  blood  :  and  asked  Paribanon, 
when  he  first  accosted  her,  "  who  that  man  was."  To 
which  she  replied,  "He  is  my  husband,  brother;  the  rea- 
son .1  did  not  invito  you  to  see  him  sooner  is,  that  1  w-^8 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  395 

unwilling  to  interrupt  you  in  an  expedition  you  were 
engaged  in,  and  from  which  I  hear  with  pleasure  that  you 
have  lately  returned  successful."  Schaibar  then  looked 
favorably  on  Ahmed,  and  offered  to  do  him  any  service  in 
his  power.  The  prince  thanked  him  ;  and  the  fairy  added, 
"  The  sultan,  his  father,  has  a  desire  to  see  you;  I  request 
you  will  let  him  be  your  guide  to  the  court  to-morrow  " 

The  next  morning,  after  having  been  fully  informed  of 
all  that  had  passed,  Schaibar  set  forward  with  Ahmed  for 
the  sultan's  palace.  As  they  approached  the  city,  the 
people  fled  before  them  in  dismay;  and  communicating 
their  fears  to  all  they  met,  the  streets  were  abandoned. 

Even  the  guards  of  the  royal  palace  ran  away.  There 
was  no  one  to  conduct  them  to  the  sultan,  so  that  the 
prince  and  Schaibar  advanced  unexpected  into  the  council- 
chamber,  where  the  sultan  was  giving  audience.  Every 
one  drew  back  in  terror.  Schaibar  advanced  to  the  throne 
without  waiting  to  be  introduced  by  the  prince.  "Thou 
hast  asked  for  me,"  said  he  to  the  sultan,  fiercely;  "  here  I 
am!  what  wouldst  thou  have  with  me?"  The  terrified 
sultan,  instead  of  answering  him,  clapped  his  hands  before 
his  eyes,  to  shut  out  the  sight  of  so  fearful  an  object. 
Schaibar,  enraged  at  this  insult,  instantly  lifted  up  his 
iron  beam  and  killed  him,  before  Ahmed  could  interpose 
in  his  behalf.  He  continued  dealing  about  his  fatal  blows 
till  he  had  destroyed  every  one  of  the  prince's  enemies. 
He  then  commanded  the  grand  vizier  to  introduce  the 
sorceress,  who  had  been  so  active  in  promoting  the  prince's 
destruction.  She  was  brought  before  him  in  the  utmost 
terror.  As  soon  as  she  was  within  his  reach,  he  gave  her 
a  stroke  with  his  iron  bar,  saying  "Take  the  reward  of 
thy  pernicious  counsels,  and  learn  to  feign  sickness  again." 

Schaibar  then  ordered  the  grand  vizier,  and  the  remain- 
ing officers  of  the  court,  to  proclaim  Prince  Ahmed  sultan 
of  the  Indies,  and,  sending  for  his  sist-jr  Paribanon,  he 
caused  her  and  her  husband  to  be  clothed  with  the  royal 
vestments,  and  seated  on  the  throne.  Houssain  had  re- 
tired  from  the  world  ;  and  Ali,  happy  in  the  possession 
of  his  beloved  Nouronnihar,  had  no  desire  to  oppose  his 


396  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

brother  Ahmed  and  his  teri'ible  ally.  He  contented  him- 
self with  an  opulent  province,  which  his  brother  bestowed 
upon  him  ;  and  Ahmed,  with  his  charming  fairy,  swayed 
the  sceptre  of  the  Indies  without  opposition. 

STORY    OF    HABIB    AND     DORATIL-GOASE,     OR    THE    ARABIAN 
KNIGHT. 

The  tribe  of  Ben-Hilac,  the  most  numerous  and  valiant 
in  all  Arabia,  was  formerly  governed  by  Emir-Ben-Hilac- 
Salamis,  the  most  famous  man  of  that  age  for  courage, 
military  talents,  piety,  probity,  and,  in  a  word,  for  all 
those  great  qualities  which  accomplish  the  character  of 
the  statesman  and  the  warrior.  He  was  the  acknowl- 
edged chief  of  sixty-six  tribes,  over  whom  he  reigned  with 
wisdom,  and  among  whom  his  administration  was  deserv- 
edly popular.  He  had  been  prosperous  in  war,  and  not 
less  so  in  peace.  He  had  passed  the  prime  of  life,  and  had 
no  favor  to  ask  of  Heaven  in  order  to  complete  his  felicity, 
unless  a  son  who  might  inherit  his  glory  and  his  power. 

In  the  festival  of  Haraphat,  Salamis  continually  heaped 
the  altar  with  victims,  prostrated  himself  upon  the  thresh- 
old of  the  tabernacle,  addressed  his  prayers. to  the  holy 
prophet,  and  still  waited  with  respectful  resignation  for 
the  time  when  the  will  of  Heaven  should  favor  him  with 
a  blessing  so  essential  to  his  happiness.  Having  one  day 
oifered  a  more  than  ordinary  profusion  of  sacrifices,  he 
felt  his  mind  suddenly  impressed,  with  a  pleasing  hope 
that  his  wishes  would  be  fulfilled.  His  hopes  were  not  in 
vain.  Amirala,  his  wife,  soon  after  found  herself  pregnant, 
and  within  nine  months  that  princess  was  delivered  of  a 
male  child,  whose  beauty  equalled  that  of  the  brightest 
luminary  which  in  the  evenings  of  summer  supplies  the 
absence  of  the  sun.  Amirala  took  the  child  in  her  arms, 
and  caressed  him  with  mingled  emotions  of  tender  love 
And  rapturous  joy. 

"Lovely  child,"  said  she;  "charming  emblem  of  the 
fair  tree  whose  fruit  thou  art,  may  my  kisses  be  salutary 
to  thee  as  the  rays  of  the  sun  are  to  the  budding  plant. 
Come  to  my  breast,  receive  the  nourishment  which  the 
tenderness  of  a  mother  gladly  offers. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  397 

"And  thou,  great  prophet !  thou,  into  whose  hands  the 
Most  High  has  committed  the  key  of  the  treasure  of 
celestial  grace,  thou,  to  whom  we  owe  this  dearest  pledge 
of  love  !  pour  upon  him  the  benignant  influence  of  thy 
sacred  spirit!  At  thy  powerful  voice  may  the  bravest, 
the  brightest,  and  yet  the  mildest  star  of  heaven  assume 
the  care  of  his  destiny  ! 

"Ye  happy  tribes  who  inhabit  the  smiling  plains  of" 
Arabia,  it  is  to  you  that  Habib  is  given  !  Come,  view  the 
head  of  my  young  cedar!  you  will  distinguish  it  rising 
above  all  the  rest.  Rejoice  !  rejoice!  }~e  happy  tribes! 
One  day  shall  it  cover  you  with  its  shade!  " 

While  Amirala  thus  celebrated  the  bounty  of  the  Al- 
mighty,  the  emir  assembled  all  the  wise  men  of  the  nation, 
and  made  them  inquire  of  the  stars  concerning  the  destiny 
of  his  son.  In  the  hour  of  his  birth  the  eyes  of  all  the 
astrologers  were  raised  to  the  azure  vault  of  heaven. 
They  beheld  a  combat  in  the  fields  above.  One  constella- 
tion appeared  to  oppose  another;  one  very  bright  star  was 
alternately  darkened,  hid,  and  extinguished  like  those 
meteors  which  are  sometimes  seen  gliding  through  the 
air ;  yet  it  still  maintained  its  place,  and  within  a  few 
moments  broke  out  with  new  lustre,  and  appeared  in  the 
most  auspicious  conjunction. 

The  eldest  of  the  astrologers  then  spoke.  "  Prince,'* 
said  he  to  Salamis,  "your  son  will  be  glorious,  and  ad- 
mired in  life ;  but  never  mortal  passed  through  such  dan- 
gers as  he  must  meet.  Perils  and  misfortunes  await  him, 
but  wonderful  will  be  his  resources  amidst  every  combi- 
nation of  difficulties.  Love  and  glor}-  are  at  last  to  crown 
his  toils,  if  his  courage  and  vigor  shall  surmount  every 
trial." 

"  "What  a  wayward  destiny ! "  returned  the  emir.  "  Car. 
no  means  be  employed  to  disappoint  its  severity?" 
t£  Prince,  we  assure  you,  the  great  planet,  and  the  seven 
around  it,  did  not  appear  in  harmonious  concord.  They 
seemed  to  exert  all  their  powers  in  order  to  bring  assist- 
ance to  the  star  of  your  son,  or  to  counteract  its  noxious 
influence.     Dreadful  was  the  contest,  and  as  Habib's  star 

84 


398  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

has  again  appeared,  you  may  entertain  some  degree  of 
hope.  The  dangers  which  he  is  to  encounter  have  been 
clearly  displayed  to  us,  but  as  man  may  so  far  elude  the 
strokes  of  fate,  the  virtues  of  Habib  must  avert  the  un- 
propitious  influence,  with  which  he  is  threatened,  and  com- 
pel his  star  to  be  more  favorable  to  him." 
*  Salamis  was  a  man  of  the  greatest  fortitude,  and  at  the 
'same  time  of  the  greatest  resignation. 

The  misfortunes  which  await  my  son  will  surely  not 
exceed  what  the  strength  of  humanity  is  able  to  bear.  Let 
me  form  him  to  manly  energy  of  character,  and  sow  the 
seeds  of  every  virtue  in  his  heart.  Amirala  will  second  my 
intentions,  and  by  our  joint  lessons  and  example  we  shall 
prepare  him  to  trample  upon  every  danger  that  may  rise 
up  before  him." 

Hardly  was  Habib  circumcised,  and  taught  to  articulate 
a  few  words,  when  his  tender  organs,  instead  of  uttering 
a  senseless  prattle,  pronounced  his  confession  of  faith.  He 
already  blessed  the  Creator  of  the  world,  Mohammed  his 
apostle,  heaven,  earth,  the  animated  beings  inhabiting 
these  worlds,  and  the  wide  immensities  of  space  by  which 
they  are  separated.  He  made  the  letters  of  the  alphabet 
his  playthings,  and  learned  to  arrange  them  into  words, 
and  these  words  soon  after  into  sentences.  His  mimic 
houses  were  imitations  of  mosques;  his  sports,  his  fancies, 
and  his  early  propensities,  all  showed  a  mind  above  the 
ordinary  rank. 

Soon  as  his  body  acquired  strength,  he  observed  no  set 
hours  for  his  meals.  It  was  necessary  that  he  should  be 
acquainted  with  want,  that  tyrant  of  humanity  ;  and  to 
teach  him  to  bear  it  without  murmuring,  he  was  from 
time  to  time  partially  exposed  to  it.  It  was  necessary 
that  he  should  accustom  himself  to  difficulties;  the  mat- 
tress upon  which  he  used  to  sleep  was,  therefore,  taken 
away,  and  he  was  left  to  lie  upon  the  bare  ground.  He 
was  exposed  occasionally  to  the  inclemency  of  the  seasons, 
that  his  body  might  not  afterward  be  too  much  affected 
by  their  severity. 

He  %vas  taught  to  mount  the  most  fiery  and  the  most 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  399 

unmanageable  young  horses.  His  address  having  been 
previously  exercised  in  adventures  of  less  danger,  he  soon 
surmounted  the  difficulties  which  at  first  attended  this. 
If  he  happened  by  any  accident  to  lose  his  seat,  his  agility 
soon  enabled  him  to  recover  it.  Thus  did  Amirala  form 
the  body  of  her  pupil.  At  seven  years  of  age,  he  excelled 
all  his  little  companions  in  vigor  and  activity.  His  heart 
and  understanding  were  not  neglected ;  he  could  recite  all 
the  chapters  of  the  Koran,  and  explain  their  meaning. 
He  was  taught  by  his  mother  to  view  the  wonders  of  na- 
ture with  enthusiastic  admh'ation,  and  could  already  de- 
scribe its  beauties.  It  became  time  for  Salamis  to  think  of 
perfecting  an  education  which  had  been  so  happily  begun. 
But,  in  order  to  do  this,  it  was  necessary  that  he  should 
find  an  instructor  as  well  qualified  to  form  his  youth  as 
Amirala  had  shown  herself  to  tutor  his  infancy.  There 
was  in  the  camp  of  Salamis  an  old  philosopher,  named 
Ilfakis,  skilled  in  all  the  sciences,  and  blameless  in  his 
conduct.  But  he  was  at  that  time  afflicted  by  a  distemper, 
which  was  conducting  him  slowly  to  the  tomb.  "Ah  ! 
would  God  restore  me  the  sage  Ilfakis,"  said  the  emir  one 
day,  in  the  presence  of  his  minister.  "  How  would  you 
employ  him  ?  "  replied  the  other.  "  I  have  just  come  from 
his  tent.  He  told  me  that  he  had  just  taken  an  elixir, 
which  had  made  him  wonderfully  better.  He  was  stand- 
ing; he  even  walked  a  few  steps  very  firmly  before  me, 
and  I  make  no  doubt  thatif  you  wish  to  see  him,  he  may 
be  able  to  wait  upon  you  here."  "  Go  ask  him,"  said  the 
emir.  "  I  look  upon  his  recovery  to  life  as  a  miracle 
wrought  by  Heaven  for  my  sake,  even  more  than  for  his." 
Ilfakis  obeyed  the  emir's  orders,  and  agreed  to  his  pro- 
posal. Young  Habib  was  committed  to  his  new  master. 
They  lived  together  in  the  same  tent.  The  cares  of  the 
governor  found  a  soil  so  naturally  happy,  and  so  well  pre- 
pared in  his  young  pupil's  mind,  that  it  was  fit  to  receive 
every  degree  of  cultivation.  Habib  was  soon  able  to  tell 
the  names  of  all  the  stars,  to  describe  the  paths  of  the 
planets,  and  to  calculate  their  sizes  and  distances.  He 
knew  the  various  species  of  trees  and  plants,  and  could 


400  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

describe  their  properties.  He  could  discourse  of  vegeta- 
tion, and  knew  in  what  manner  heat  and  moisture  pro- 
duced fertility.  He  knew  the  sea  to  be  formed  by  the 
influx  of  the  rivers;  he  could  trace  the  vapors  raised  from 
it  by  the  heat  of  the  sun  to  the  tops  of  the  mountains, 
and  there  behold  them  falling  into  plenteous  springs,  to 
perpetuate  the  wonderful  operations  of  nature.  He  knew 
how  to  rank  every  animal  in  its  proper  class;  while  the 
wonders  of  instinct  excited  his  surprise,  he  was  pleased 
to  see  these  still  in  subordination  to  the  energies  of  reason.* 
While,  with  the  assistance  of  Ufakis,  he  strove  to  ar- 
range in  order  all  this  vast  variety  of  ideas,  he  was  at  the 
same  time  attentive  to  fix  them  in  his  mind,  and  learned 
the  art  of  writing,  with  pens  cut  in  seven  different  ways.f 
Salamis,  one  day,  desired  his  son  to  communicate  to  him 
some  part  of  the  learning  he  had  acquired.  "  Father," 
said  the  youth,  "you  must  apply  to  my  master  to  give 
you  the  information  you  desire.  As  for  me,  I  must  long 
be  all  eye  and  all  ear.  I  must  learn  to  use  my  hand  be- 
fore I  begin  to  exercise  my  tongue,  and  to  write  my  letters 
as  pure  as  pearls  from  the  water."  Salamis,  delighted  with 
this  reply,  asked  his  sage  governor  whether  there  was 
anything  else  that  he  could  teach  his  son  "  The  young 
prince,"  replied  Ilfakis,  ''never  puts  a  question  to  me  but 
he  is  well  able  to  anticipate  the  reply.  I  have  opened  to 
his  eyes  the  great  book  of  nature ;  its  wonders  are  at  each 
glance  more  and  more  clearly  unfolded  to  his  view.  Far- 
ther instruction  would  only  retard  his  progress,  and  detain 
him  needlessly  from  the  scenes  of  active  life.  It  is  time, 
princ3,  for  my  pupil  to  begin  his  application  to  those  arts 
which  are  necessary  accomplishments  to  the  man  who  is 
one  day  to  rule  over  sixty-six  warlike  tribes.  In  those 
my  assistance  could  be  of  no  service  to  him.  My  bodj 
must  soon  return  to  the  dust,  and  rest  with  its  parent 

*  The  Arabians  were  the  first  who  taught  us  to  study  the  wondrous  opera- 
tions of  nature;  they  translated  the  Greek  philosophers.  There  is,  therefore, 
nothing  improbable  in  what  is  here  related  of  the  education  of  young  Habib. 

t  The  pens  used  by  the  Arabians  are  reeds.  Whatever  be  the  value  they 
may  put  upon  the  cutting  of  pens  in  all  these  different  ways,  it  is  certain  that 
they  reckon  it,  a  high  merit  to  be  able  to  illuminate  their  writii  g8  skilfully. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  40J 

earth."  "Why  so  gloomy  a  presage?"  replied  the  emir; 
"  you  may  promise  3Tourself  many  a  good  year  yet,  and 
you  shall  he  liberally  supplied  with  every  comfort  which 
the  infirmities  of  age  require.  'My  treasure  shall  be  en- 
tirely at  your  command."  "Prince,"  replied  the  sage, 
"all  the  riches  in  this  world  are  not  of  more  value  than  a 
grain  of  sand,  in  my  eyes.  All  my  desires  have  long  since 
failed.  This  frail  body,  which  I  have  no  further  wish  to 
preserve,  owes  its  prolonged  existence  solely  to  the  secret 
views  of  Providence,  in  favor  of  Salamis.  This  day  is 
marked  out  by  destiny  as  the  last  in  which  it  shall  be 
animated.  In  fulfilling  my  duty,  I  have  enjoyed  all  the 
recompense  I  wish  to  receive  here  below."  "  Farewell, 
then,  virtuous  Ilfakis,"  said  the  emir.  "  Peceive  my  son's 
embraces  and  mine.  Your  loss  must  cost  us  many  tears, 
but  we  will  soothe  your  distress  by  going  often  to  visit 
your  tent."  "  You  shall  return  there  no  more,"  replied 
he ;  "  my  tent  is  like  a  vapor  dispersed  by  the  wind,  and 
1  myself,  like  the  dust,  driven  before  it  in  its  fury.  Fare- 
well, Salamis ;  farewell,  my  dear  Habib.  Think  some- 
times of  me,  amidst  the  difficulties  with  which  you  are 
soon  to  struggle."  Young  Habib  was  much  affected  at 
this  scene  ;  but  his  sensibility  was  put  next  day  to  a  harder 
trial.  His  worthy  governor  died  soon  after  returning  to 
his  own  tent.  The  body  was  immediately  interred,  to  free 
the  camp  from  the  infection  which  it  produced,  the  moment 
after  it  was  deserted  by  the  spirit  which  had  animated  it. 
Habib  retired,  and  wept  beside  his  mother.  Amirala  was 
pleased  with  his  sensibilit}^,  while  she  strove  to  console 
him.  She  represented  the  things  of  this  earth  as  inade- 
quate to  our  felicity,  and  directed  him  to  extend  his  views 
beyond  it.  These  consoling  considerations  calmed  young 
Habib's  sorrow,  but  he  wished  to  pay  the  last  duties  to  his 
benefactor,  to  strew  some  flowers  on  his  tomb,  and  to 
offer  up  his  prayers  to  the  Most  High  on  that  hallowed 
spot.  He  went  to  Ilfakis's  tent  with  three  emblematic 
flowers  in  his  hand.  His  soul  was  dissolved  in  tender 
melancholy.  Tears  flowed  silently  down  his  cheeks.  He 
stood  still  for  a  moment  to  indulge  his  grief,  which  was 
3i*  2a 


402  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAIN  MENT8. 

thus  mingled  with  sweet  affection,  and  then  exprt^sed  his 
feelings  in  these  words  : 

"  I  tread  on  the  spot  where  my  dear  llfakis  is  laid. 
Angels  of  death,  when  you  approached  to  receive  his 
bouI,  were  not  your  hearts  moved  like  mine  ?  O  great 
Prophet !  thou  hast  received  this  virtuous  Mussulman ! 
Thou  hast  given  him  a  crown  of  unfading  glory !  O 
preserve  these  flowers  from  withering,  which  I  lay  as 
crowns  upon  his  dear  remains. 

The  soul  of  my  dear  llfakis  does  not  wander  here, 
otherwise  those  parched  plains  would  smile  with  verdant 
plants  and  blooming  flowers,  just  as  his  looks  and  words 
used  to  raise  in  my  heart  the  shoots  of  wisdom  and  the 
charms  of  virtue. 

"  Be  happy,  sleep,  rest  in  peace,  benevolent  soul.  Deign 
to  receive  this  testimony  of  my  gratitude  while  I  thus 
adorn  thy  cold  remains  !  Thou  hast  cultivated  my  mind 
with  reason  and  truth,  hast  taught  me  to  love  my  duty, 
and  hast  opened  my  heart  to  feel  the  delights  of  virtuous 
friendship.  Thus  do  I  express  my  friendship  and  grati- 
tude to  thee." 

Salamis  was  expecting  his  son's  return.  "Habib,"  said 
he,  "  after  thus  obeying  the  emotions  of  gratitude,  you 
must  now  think  of  acquiring  knowledge  which  may  bo 
more  directly  useful  in  your  situation.  You  are,  my  son, 
destined  by  Heaven  to  succeed  me  in  command  of  the 
valiant  tribes  under  my  dominion.  You  must  march  at 
their  head  in  every  military  expedition.  You  must,  there- 
fore, learn  how  you  may  conduct  them  upon  such  occa- 
sions, must  harden  yourself  against  fatigue,  and  must 
acquire  those  military  arts  which  may  best  enable  you  to 
triumph  over  every  enemy  that  shall  dare  to  resist  you 
By  uniting  address  and  dexterity  to  strength,  you  may 
make  yourself  the  most  gallant  and  intrepid  soldier  in 
your  armies.  You  have  already  begun  to  accustom  your- 
Belf  to  bear  arms.  Only  indolence  or  cowardice  sinks 
under  their  weight.  The  brave  man  makes  himself  famil- 
iar with  it,  and  it  soon  becomes  light  to  him.  Ah !  why 
cannot  I  find  among  my  warriors  one  as  well  qualified  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  403 

instruct  you  in  the  exercise  of  arms,  as  Ilfakis  was  to 
initiate  you  in  science  ?  An  accomplished  soldier  is  a 
phoenix  scarcely  to  be  found.  The  great  prophet  per- 
formed a  miracle  in  our  favor,  by  preserving  Ilfakis; 
would  that  his  goodness  would  also  send  me  the  extraor- 
dinary character  to  whom  I  wish  now  to  commit  you." 
"Father,"  said  Habib,  "in  my  diversions  I  can  attack 
your  most  vigorous  horses ;  my  strength  and  courage 
never  forsake  me.  Change  this  robe  of  linen  for  a  cuirass 
of  iron.  Give  me  a  heavier  buckler  and  a  stronger  lance, 
and  you  shall  then  find  me  no  unworthy  companion  to 
yourself.  .  Ah !  when  shall  I  be  permitted  to  lay  aside 
these  clothes,  which  render  almost  my  very  sex  equivocal, 
and  convey  no  favorable  idea  of  the  vigor  which  nature 
has  given  me  ?  It  requires  only  to  be  tutored  to  disci- 
pline. All  my  wish  is,  to  learn  how  I  best  may  employ 
it."  "Worthy  present  from  the  hand  of  Heaven!"  said 
the  emir,  embracing  his  son.  "  Happy  child !  hope  of  my 
tribes.  He  who  inspires  you  with  such  noble  dispositions 
will  surely  assist  you  in  the  cultivation  of  them." 

Hardly  was  this  conversation  ended,  when  a  warrior 
presented  himself  at  the  intrenchments  around  Salamis's 
camp,  and  begged  to  have  the  honor  of  being  admitted 
into  his  presence.  "  Introduce  him,"  said  the  emir..  "  My 
heart,  the  first  wish  of  which  is  to  see  peace  and  justice 
reign  through  the  earth,  desires  to  live  among  men  who 
are  their  protectors."     The  stranger  appeared. 

The  noble  steed  on  which  he  was  borne,  covered  him 
with  his  flowing  mane,  so  that  only  the  crest  of  his  helmet 
and  the  plume  of  feathers  waving  upon  it,  could  be  seen. 
He  approached  the  tent,  and  alighted  from  his  horse. 
Habib,  who  had  gone  before,  seized  the  bridle,  and  deliv- 
ered him  to  one  of  the  emir's  grooms.  "Valiant  knight," 
said  the  emir,  "  with  what  intentions  came  you  hither  ?" 
"I  came,"  replied  the  unknown  knight,  "to  do  homage 
to  the  virtues,  the  courage,  and  the  power  of  the  great 
emir,  Ben-Hilac  Salamis,  and  to  ask  young  Habib  to  admit 
me  to  share  the  favors  with  which  he  is  loaded  by  the 
lovely  daughter  of  Hymen.     The  warrior  who   has  her 


404  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

in  h.'s  arms,  intoxicated  with  the  enjoyment,  will  soon 
forget  the  dangers  to  which  he  has  been  exposed." 

The  emir,  not  comprehending  what  was  meant  by  this 
address,  asked  his  son  to  explain  it.  "  Father,"  said 
Habib,  in  a  tone  of  kind  concern,  "  this  noble  knight  asks 
leave  to  salute  you,  and  to  share  my  coffee." 

Then  turning  to  the  stranger:  "  Warrior,"  said  he,  "to 
desire  the  favors  of  the  daughter  of  Hymen  is  to  show 
one's  self  worthy  of  those  which  she  delights  to  pour  into 
the  hearts  of  such  as  love  glory.  Nothing  of  what  you 
desire. shall  be  refused  you  here.  The  hero  whom  j-ou  see 
is  Emir  Salamis,  and  I  am  his  son  Habib."  t 

The  two  heroes  then  saluted  each  other.  Salamis  had 
never  seen  a  man  of  finer  figure,  or  one  in  whom  majesty 
and  grace  were  more  happily  united.  His  arms  of  polished 
steel  reflected  the  sun's  rays  with  such  lustre,  that  they 
seemed  to  rob  him  of  that  radiance  which  they  borrowed. 
His  helmet  glittered  like  a  meteor  in  the  sky;  the  blade 
of  his  scimitar  flamed  afar.  No  gold  or  diamonds  deco- 
rated any  part  of  his  armor ;  its  lustre  was  owing  to  its 
simplicity,  and  to  the  warrior's  care. 

While  this  stranger  knight  was  drinking  his  coffee,  Sal- 
amis was  curious  to  learn,  from  his  own  mouth,  what  were 
the  motives  which  had  brought  him  to  his  camp. 

"  Illustrious  and  powerful  emir,"  replied  the  knight,  "I 
am  of  a  Parthian  family,  and  was  born  in  a  remote  part 
of  India.  In  my  infancy  I  conceived  a  passion  for  glory, 
and  betook  myself  to  the  profession  of  arms.  The  fame 
which  you  have  acquired  in  Arabia  roused  my  emulation. 
1  wished  for  a  nearer  knowledge  of  him  whom  I  consid- 
ered as  a  noble  model  for  my  imitation.  On  the  confines 
of  your  territories  I  learned  that  you  at  this  time  wanted 
a  governor  to  assist  you  in  the  military  education  of  young 
Habib;  and  although  he  might  learn  all  that  can  be  ne- 
cessary from  his  father,  Salamis,  }^et  I  conceived  that  as  it 
was  requisite  for  him  to  be  constantly  attended  in  all  his 
exercises,  my  services  might  be  of  use  to  him,  and  I  am, 
therefore,  come  to  offer  them." 

"  Sir,"  replied  the  emir,  "  I  feel  myself  much  obliged  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  405 

you,  and  the  generosity  of  your  sentiments  determines  me 
to  accept  your  services.  But  since  my  son  must  one  day 
be  able  to  rule  my  dominions,  none  shall  be  his  instructor 
who  cannot  master  me  in  fight.  Let  us  try  our  strength 
against  one  another,  and  without  malice  contend  for  vic- 
tory. The  man  who  conquers  me  shall  be  tutor  to  my 
son.  "  It  is  an  honor,"  replied  the  stranger  knight,  u  to 
which  the  greatest  warriors  might  be  proud  to  aspire.  I 
accept  the  challenge  of  the  great  Salamis,  nor  shall  I  be 
ashamed  to  confess  him  my  conqueror,  whom  none  has 
ever  conquered." 

Salamia's  ministers,  who  witnessed  this  challenge,  dis- 
suaded him  from  it,  and  told  him  that  he  was  wrong  to 
enter  into  any  such  contest,  with  a  man  whose  birth  and 
condition  in  life  ^  <ire  unknown  to  him.  "  What  signify 
rank  and  birth?"  replied  the  emir.  "It  is  a  warrior  I 
want,  not  a  king.  If  this  knight  is  blinded  by  presump- 
tion, I  can  be  in  no  danger  in  contending  with  him;  but 
if  his  courage  is  equal  to  his  manly  assurance,  neither  of 
us  w:Jl  be  at  any  disadvantage,  and  I  shall  have  entered 
the  lists  with  my  equal."  Then  turning  to  the  stranger: 
"  Sir  knight,"  said  he,  "  rest  yourself,  and  let  your  steed 
recover  breath.  I  do  not  wish  you  to  combat  with  me 
under  any  disadvantage.  If  I  desire  to  measure  my 
strength  and  courage  against  yours,  it  is  not  to  avoid  giv- 
ing you  my  esteem,  but  to  put  it  in  your  power  to  conquer 
it.  On  the  day  after  to-morrow  we  shall  proceed  to  the 
camp." 

Habib  conducted  the  stranger  into  a  tent  prepared  for 
him.  The  knight,  sensibly  affected  with  the  kindness  and 
attention  thus  shown  to  him,  looked  upon  the  youth  with 
u  heart  already  interested  by  his  character.  "  The  young 
vine,"  said  he,  "  loaded  with  fruits,  engages  the  passing 
traveller  to  set  a  prop  for  its  support.  When  the  grape 
ripens,  it  will  offer  itself  to  the  passenger's  hand." 

They  then  saluted  one  another,  and  Habib  retired  to  his 
father's  tent.  When  day  returned,  he  ran  to  the  tent  of 
the  knight,  who  had  already  begun  to  fill  that  place  in  his 
neart  which  Irakis  had  formerly  held.     He   found    him 


406  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

busy  in  scouring  his  arms,  and  examining  his  horse's  bar 
ness.  "  What !  you  yourself  do  this  ?"  said  the  young  sul 
tan.  "  Yes,  prince,  he  who  is  jealous  of  his  glory  ought  to 
neglect  nothing  that  can  contribute  to  it ;  his  arms  are  the 
only  mirror  a  true  knight  deigns  to  use." 

In  the  meantime  the  field  was  prepared  in  which  Sala- 
mis  and  the  stranger  knight  were  to  enter  the  lists.  The 
trumpets  sounded;  an  immense  crowd  of  spectators  stood 
around  the  barriers.  The  warriors  appeared;  and  on  both 
sides  the  advantages  appeared  so  equal,  that  it  was  im 
possible  to  say  to  whom  the  victory  might  incline. 

The  lances  they  poised  were  of  equal  weight;  their 
horses  of  the  same  size  and  strength.  They  rushed  toward 
one  another  with  the  impetuosity  of  lightning.  Furious, 
however,  as  was  the  shock,  they  both  remained  immov- 
able in  their  seats,  and  their  lances  were  broken  in  pieces. 
Salamis,  who  had  never  before  met  with  such  opposition, 
was  astonished  to  find  so  vigorous  an  assault  ineffectual  ; 
and  his  adversary,  from  other  motives,  which  it  is  yet  too 
soon  to  mention,  was  himself  at  the  same  time  in  the 
greatest  surprise.  The  emir  made  a  sign  to  his  adversary 
that  he  wanted  to  speak  with  him.  The  stranger  knight 
stopped,  alighted  from  his  horse,  and  advanced  up  to  him. 

"  Brave  knight,"  said  the  emir,  "  you  have  given  me  a 
high  proof  of  your  prowess,  which  makes  me  hope  that 
to-morrow,  when  we  meet  with  our  scimitars  in  our  hands, 
I  shall  find  an  adversary  worthy  of  myself."  "  Great 
prince,"  replied  the  stranger  knight,  "never  mortal  yet 
got  the  advantage  over  me.  It  is  to  my  great  astonish- 
ment that  I  have  found  one  able  to  resist  me.  I  value  too 
highly  the  honor  you  have  done  me,  to  refuse  the  chal- 
lenge you  offer  me  for  to-morrow."  After  this  the  two 
warriors  shook  hands,  parted,  and  laid  aside  their  arms. 
Habib  went  to  his  father's  tent,  to  do  what  filial  duty 
required,  and  then  at  the  impulse  of  friendship,  returned 
soon  after  to  the  stranger,  while  those  who  had  been  ap- 
pointed to  serve  him  were  relieving  him  of  his  arms. 
"You  no  longer  refuse,  then,"  said  Habib,  "to  employ 
•^iose  who  are  appointed  to  obey  your   orders?"     "No. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   ENTERTAINMENTS.  407 

my  amiable  sultan.  Let  me  tell  you  an  apokgue,  the 
meaning  of  which  I  apply  to  my  own  profession,  certainly 
the  first  in  the  world.  When  the  sun  rises,  he  employs-  no 
hand  but  his  own  to  spread  out  the  rays  which  surround 
him.  When  he  goes  to  rest,  he  leaves  it  to  the  waves  of 
the  ocean,  into  which  he  sinks,  to  extinguish  them." 

"  I  shall  answer  you  with  another  apologue,"  said  Habib, 
"  or  rather  with  a  truth  with  which  you  impress  me.  The 
hero  who  has  sustained  unmoved  the  enormous  weight  of 
my  father's  lance  has  dazzled  my  eyes  with  his  lustre,  and 
he  whom  1  see  still  shine  can  never  be  extinguished." 

"A  young  eaglet,"  replied  the  stranger,  "  who  is  yet 
scarce  fledged,  opened  his  eyes  to  the  light  for  the  first 
time.  He  saw  a  glow-worm  on  the  foliage  of  a  neighbor- 
ing tree,  and  was  not  dazzled  with  the  sight.  The  prince 
of  birds,  then,  no  longer  doubted  that  he  would  one  day 
gaze  on  the  sun  with  a  steady  eye." 

"Sure,"  said  Habib,  "the  phoenix  which  speaks  to  me 
is  continually  revived  from  his  ashes,  and  at  each  renova- 
tion of  his  existence,  looks  back  with  contempt  on  all  the 
advantages  he  before  enjoyed."  "  With  you,  charming 
Habib,"  said  the  warrior,  embracing  him,  "  I  have  no  ad- 
vantages, unless,  perhaps,  in  the  affection  with  which  you 
have  inspired  me."  "  Could  1  open  my  heart  to  you," 
said  Habib,  "you  would  acknowledge  yourself  outdone; 
but  my  father  must  no  longer  be  deprived  of  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  you.  He  loves  heroes,  and  you,  although  you 
say  not  so,  are  a  hero."  "  It  may  happen,"  replied  the 
stranger,  "  that  one  of  us  two  may  one  day  become  a  hero. 
At  present  I  see  no  heroes  here."  As  they  spoke  thus 
they  walked  hand  in  hand  to  the  tent  of  Salamis.  The 
emir  was  pleased  to  remark  the  rise  of  a  mutual  attach- 
ment, which  he  was  determined  to  strengthen. 

Salamis  no  sooner  saw  the  stranger  knight,  than  he  ac- 
costed him  with  expressions  of  the  warmest  esteem.  "  I 
know,"  said  he,  "that  you  can  no  longer  find  difficulty  in 
any  trial  I  can  put  you  to.  It  is  not  to  settle  my  own 
opinion  with  respect  to  you,  that  I  require  a  new  display 
of  your  courage   and   vigor;    but  I  command   a  warlike 


408  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

nation,  jealous  of  their  glory,  and  am  desirous  of  leaving 
them  no  shadow  of  doubt  concerning  the  superior  merit 
of  a  man  who  is  to  be  honored  with  a  preference  above 
them.  I  must  carry  my  delicacy  so  far  (and  you  will  not 
disapprove  of  my  doing  so)  as  to  open  the  lists  to  whoso- 
ever may  think  himself  able  to  dispute  your  triumph, 
when  you  shall  have  finished  your  trials  against  me.  In 
the  meantime,  let  us  enjoy  the  present  together.  To-mor- 
row we  shall  force  envy  to  admire  you." 

Next  day  displayed  the  most  surprising  combat  that  the 
Arabians  ever  beheld.  The  two  heroes  opposed  buckler  to 
buckler,  and  laid  on  the  most  terrible  blows.  The  stroke  was 
felt  before  the  arm  had  been  seen  to  be  raised.  They  then 
laid  aside  the  buckler  and  scimitar,  and  prepared  to  try 
their  strength  in  wrestling.  The  winds,  in  all  their  fury, 
in  vain  assail  the  cedars  of  Lebanon.  The  earth  trembles 
beneath  them,  but  they  cannot  be  torn  up  by  the  roots. 

Emir  Salamis  did  not  choose  to  keep  up  the  astonish- 
ment of  the  spectators  longer.  He  was  better  pleased  to 
have  met  with  an  equal  than  he  could  have  been  with  vic- 
tory in  the  contest. 

"Let  us  stop  for  a  moment,"  said  he,  "  brgve  knight ! 
my  surprise  is  every  moment  heightened ;  I  never  before 
found  any  one  able  to  withstand  me;  I  was,  indeed,  less 
elated  with  my  victories  than  moved  with  pity  for  the 
weakness  of  our  nature.  When  I  compared  our  resources 
with  the  natural  advantages  which  certain  animals  are 
possessed  of,  I  confess  I  was  wrong.  I  think  less  of  the 
vigor  of  the  lion,  since  I  have  proved  yours.  Let  us  cease 
from  this  fatiguing  exercise,  saddle  our  steeds,  and  attack 
each  other  with  javelins." 

This  new  species  of  combat  afforded  new  matter  of  tri- 
umph to  both  the  combatants.  Every  means  that  address, 
dexterity,  and  strength  could  furnish,  were  practised  upon 
this  occasion.  The  emir,  however,  was  beginning  to  lose 
his  advantages.  Youth  gave  his  adversary  a  superiority 
flrhich  his  valor  could  not  surmount.  He  was,  besides, 
convinced  that  the  stranger  possessed  in  a  most  eminent 
degree  all  the  qualities  requisite  for  the  employment  for 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  409 

which  he  intended  him.  He  stopped,  therefore,  and  made 
a  sign  to  the  stranger  to  do  the  same,  and  they  returned 
hand-in-hand  to  the  camp. 

"  Knight,"  said  Salamis,  "  my  son  will  find  in  you  a 
second  father.  You  know  how  your  own  vigor  has  been 
improved  by  continued  exercise,  by  which  means  only 
you  could  add  to  it  such  amazing  dexterity  and  address. 
You  know  also  how  necessary  it  is  that  we  be  accustomed 
to  dangers,  in  order  that  we  may  acquire  due  coolness  of 
temper  and  firmness  of  mind.  I  give  up  to  your  care  the 
only  object  of  my  hopes.  Teach  him  to  know  what  true 
glory  is,  and  how  attainable  by  the  warrior." 

Young  Habib  had,  by  his  wishes  and  inclination,  already 
anticipated  his  father's  intentions.  He  therefore  joyfully 
followed  his  new  master.  "  I  come,"  said  he,  "  to  profit  by 
your  lessons.  I  must  imitate  my  father  and  you,  and  may 
I  approach  near  to  the  perfection  of  the  models  I  aspire 
to  imitate." 

"  We  will  portion  out  our  time  to  our  different  tasks, 
my  dear  Habib,"  said  II  Haboul,  for  this  was  the  name  of 
the  Indian  knight.  "  The  day  we  shall  spend  in  such 
exercises  as  may  improve  your  vigor  and  address  to  equal 
your  courage.  In  the  evening  we  shall  converse  of  those 
qualities  which  will  be  necessary  to  fit  you  to  rule  over 
the  most  independent  people  on  earth.  They  have  at  all 
times  preferred  liberty  to  luxury.  Valor,  joined  with  pru- 
dence, are  the  qualities  they  adore.  These  are  the  titles 
by  which  the  emir,  your  father,  reigns  over  sixty-six 
tribes.  You  cannot  inherit  his  power  unless  you  acquire 
his  virtues." 

On  this  plan  did  II  Haboul  direct  Habib's  education, 
and  it  soon  produced  the  happiest  fruits.  Emir  Salamis 
Wi^s  soon  after  engaged  in  a  war,  in  which  the  young  sul- 
tan distinguished  himself  by  prodigies  of  valor.  Being 
ordered  upon  a  difficult  service,  he  distinguished  himself 
by  his  prudence  and  firmness ;  and  when  called  on  to  assist 
in  his  father's  councils,  he  astonished  the  ministers  by  the 
wise  "advice  he  offered. 

II  HabouPs  task  was  now  finished,  and  he  was  obliged 


410  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

to  part  from  bis  pupil.  It  was  p/oper  to  acquaint  the 
young  prince  with  the  necessity  which  called  him  away. 
"  My  son/'  said  he,  "I  must  leave  you.  I  am  called  into 
another  country  by  the  orders  of  my  superiors."  "  What," 
said  Habib,  "  and  will  you  leave  me?"  "I  am  no  longer 
necessary  to  you  here,  and  am  besides  obliged  to  yield  to 
the  commands  of  fate."  "How  unfortunate  am  I!"  re- 
plied the  youth.  "Death  deprived  me  of  my  former  mas- 
ter, Ilfakis,  whom  I  still  remember  with  regret,  and  a 
harsh  command  now  forces  you  to  part  from  me !  But, 
do  we  part  forever  ?  May  not  I  know  why  ?  Cannot  my 
father  prevail  with  you  to  alter  your  resolution  ?"  "No 
human  power  can,"  replied  II  Haboul ;  "  but  I  hope  to  see 
you  again.  However,  my  dear  Habib,  I  can  offer  you  at 
least  a  partial  consolation.  He  whom  you  loved  under 
the  name  of  Ilfakis  is  not  dead,  but  still  remains  attached 
to  you."  "  How?"  replied  Habib,  "I  myself  attended  his 
funeral,  and  wept  over  his  tomb." 

"My  son,"  replied  II  Haboul,  "the  story  of  the  death 
you  speak  of  is  connected  with  various  others,  in  which 
you  are  concerned,  perhaps  even  with  yours  and  mine. 
Listen  to  what  I  shall  relate.  Eemember  your  horoscope, 
and  be  not  surprised  at  the  story  you  ai'e  about  to  hear 
In  the  first  place,  know  that  he  who  loves  and  speaks  to 
you  is  not  a  human  being,  but  a  genie,  employed  by  des- 
tiny to  conduct  you  to  the  high  fate  for  which  you  were 
born." 

STORY    OF    ILLABOUSATROUS,  OF   KING    SCHAL-GOASE,  AND    OF 
CAMARILZAMAN. 

It  is  well  known  to  you,  my  dear  prince,  that  some  of 
the  genii  of  the  race  of  Eblis  bowed  the  knee  to  the  great 
Solomon.  Illabousatrous  was  one  of  the  first  of  these.%  I 
am  of  the  same  race,  and  took  the  same  steps.  Among 
my  own  people  I  am  called  a  cadi,  by  the  grace  of  God 
and  of  Solomon.  To  escape  the  resentment  and  vengeance 
of  the  party  whom  he  had  forsaken,  and  to  induce  the 
Prophet,  to  whom  we  have  submitted,  to  alleviate  the 
yoke  imposed  upon  us,  we  form  alliances  with  the  children 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  41i 

of  Adam,  and  through  their  means  partake  of  the  bless- 
ings of  the  earth. 

Illabousatrous  had  by  a  woman  a  daughter  of  great 
beauty,  whom  he  named  Camarilzaman  ;  to  secure  her 
peace  and  happiness,  he  wished  to  marry  her  to  one  of 
the  greatest  monarchs  of  the  earth.  At  that  time  there 
reigned  over  the  isles  in  the  middle  of  the  seven  seas,  the 
most  distant  region  of  the  east,  a  potent  monarch  named 
Schal-goase.  Illabousatrous  appeared  to  this  prince  in 
the  form  of  an  old  man,  and  proposed  an  alliance  between 
them,  of  which  the  fair  Camarilzaman  was  the  pledge. 
The  monarch  saw  the  princess,  fell  in  love  with  her,  and 
married  her.  Many  of  the  genii  who  were  subject  to 
Illabousatrous,  settled  in  the  dominions  of  Schal-goase. 
The  circumjacent  sea  was  peopled  with  them,  and  in  no 
place  under  heaven  did  the  genii  and  the  children  of  men 
live  in  better  amity.  This  happy  correspondence  prom- 
ised to  be  further  confirmed  and  improved,  upon  the  birth 
of  the  charming  Dorathil-goase,  the  first  issue  of  the  mar- 
riage between  Schal-goase  and  Camarilzaman. 

Were  the  gifts  of  Heaven  always  pledges  of  prosperity 
in  this  world,  nobody,  sure,  could  have  been  happier  than 
this  lovely  princess.  Her  infant  beauty  seemed  to  irradi- 
ate the  cradle  in  which  she  was  laid ;  each  day  she  dis- 
played opening  graces ;  but  when  her  father  and  grand- 
father consulted  the  stars  respecting  her  destiny,  the  same 
confusion  which  appeared  to  disturb  the  planetary  system 
at  your  birth,  discovered  itself  upon  the  occasion  of  hers, 
and  that  with  such  perfect  similarity,  as  to  prove  that  you 
were  the  Arabian  prince,  sprung  from  the  prophet's  favor- 
ite tribe,  to  whom  fate  had  destined  the  possession  of  the 
princess,  to  be  obtained  through  a  series  of  dangers  equally 
alarming  to  both,  and  this  union  alone  could  insure  her 
peace  and  happiness,  her  fortune  and  yours. 

From  this  time  Illabousatrous  intrusted  me  with  the 
care  of  your  education;  but  Solomon's  orders  did  not 
permit  me  to  approach  you.  I  could  obtain  no  commis- 
sion favorable  to  our  purpose,  till  such  time  as  your  father 
became  desirous  of  finding  you  a  preceptor     llfakis,  whom 


412  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  emir,  your  father,  had  in  view,  was  dying.  1  came  to 
the  tent  where  he  lay,  and  at  the  very  instant  when  the 
angel  of  death  was  parting  his  soul  from  his  body,  I  sub- 
stituted my  own  spirit  in  the  room  of  his.  By  means  of 
a  potent  elixir  I  reanimated  his  body,  and  to  this  miracle 
you  owed  your  governor. 

When  I  saw  that  it  was  time  for  you  to  apply  to  the 
manly  exercises,  I  carried  the  body  of  Ufakis  back  to  his 
tent,  and  withdrew  that  influence  by  which  it  had  been 
withheld  from  dissolution. 

My  next  care  was  to  find  you  a  valiant  knight.  In  this 
search  I  soon  found  one  expiring  on  the  field  of  battle, 
after  he  had  covered  it  with  the  bodies  of  his  fallen  ene- 
mies. I  seized  his  body,  stopped  the  blood  flowing  from 
his  wounds,  healed  them  with  a  balsam  much  more  pow- 
erful in  its  operations  than  that  of  Mecca,  restored  all  his 
former  vigor,  armed  him  with  a  lance  which  had  been 
wielded  by  the  hand  of  Solomon,  and  you  see  before  you 
that  knight.  In  this  form  I  presented  myself  to  Emir 
Salamis,  and  demanded  to  share  the  favors  of  the  daughter 
of  Hymen  ;  upon  which  you  became  my  pupil. 

My  dear  Habib,  you  have  formed  a  tender  friendship  for 
me  under  both  forms.  Tour  heart  has  never  deceived  you. 
Never  did  a  being  of  any  nature  conceive  so  tender  an 
affection  for  one  of  the  children  of  Adam  as  that  which  I 
feel  for  you.  You  have  no  distrust  of  me.  Recollect  the 
lessons  I  gave  you  in  the  character  of  Ilfakis.  When  I 
instructed  you  in  the  knowledge  of  talismans,  I  explained 
their  use ;  but  I  at  the  same  time  put  you  on  your  guard 
against  the  spirits  to  which  they  might  subject  you.  The 
race  of  Eblis  are,  in  general,  extremely  corrupt  and  wicked. 
Happy  he  among  us  who  has  been  sealed  with  the  great 
seal  of  Solomon.  The  rest  are  continually  busied  about 
Dur  destruction  and  yours. 

Thus  do  they  persecute  the  fair  Dorathil-goase,  who 
might  rescue  them  from  the  effects  of  the  curse  pro- 
nounced against  them,  as  she  is  the  daughter  of  a  man 
by  a  female  genie.  Hence  have  they  already  become  sus- 
picious of  you  as  a  faithful  Mussulman  and  the  hero  des< 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  413 

lined  to  avenge  the  wrongs  of  Dorathil-goase,  and  defeat 
their  treacherous  attempts  against  her. 

This  princess  has  ascended  the  throne  in  consequence 
of  her  father's  death.  Illabousatrous,  her  grandfather, 
has  given  her  some  of  his  ablest  genii  for  viziers ;  but  the 
isle  in  which  the  capital  stands  is  the  only  one  that  re- 
mains, at  present,  in  a  state  of  tranquillity.  The  other 
six,  with  the  seven  seas,  forming  the  rest  of  her  domin- 
ions, are  either  at  present  in  a  state  of  revolt,  or  have  been 
infested  by  hostile  incursions.  Only  one  resource  now 
remains  to  save  the  lovely  queen,  and  by  this  the  constel. 
lations  have  destined  that  she  shall  be  saved.  Young 
Habib,  on  whom  she  has  bestowed  her  heart,  shall  soon 
come  to  deliver  her  from  her  enemies. 

During  this  recital  by  II  Haboul,  the  young  sultan,  led 
alternately  from  hope  to  fear,  from  surprise  to  surprise, 
and  from  wonder  to  wonder,  stood  with  his  eyes  fixed, 
and  hardly  breathing.  His  whole  soul  was  agitated 
with  emotions  to  which  he  had  hitherto  been  a  stranger. 
Called  by  destiny  to  the  throne  of  the  seven  seas,  and 
to  receive  the  hand  of  a  princess  whose  felicity  depended 
upon  him  alone,  he  felt  an  involuntary  emotion,  and  burnt 
already  with  ardor  to  expose  himself  to  the  dangers 
which  threatened  him.  The  feelings  of  love  and  the  desire 
of  glory  alike  encouraged  him  to  an  enterprise  in  which 
success  was  to  be  doubly  crowned. 

"Dear  and  powerful  genie,"  said  he  to  his  protector, 
"what  road  am  I  to  take?  Deign,  before  you  leave  me, 
to  acquaint  me  by  what  means  I  may  soonest  haste  to  the 
assistance  of  her  who  expects  all  my  valor.  The  sacri- 
fice of  my  life  and  quiet  is  but  a  small  matter  to  justify 
the  partiality  by  which  she  is  determined  in  my  favor, 
and  the  decrees  of  destiny  by  which  our  union  is  ap- 
pointed." 

"  By  these  noble  sentiments,"  i*eplied  II  Haboul,  "  I 
know  m3T  pupil,  the  son  of  Emir  Salamis;  but  remember, 
my  dear  Habib,  that  the  genii,  your  rivals  for  the  hand 
of  Dorathil-goase,  and,  indeed,  your  avowed  enemies,  will 
act  keenly  and  vigorously  against  you.  They  will  cora- 
85* 


414  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

bine  in  the  execution  of  their  enterprises  wicked  men,  who 
will  obey  them  without  knowing  what  they  do;  the  brute 
animals,  the  elements,  and  in  short  all  nature  will  be 
united  to  accomplish  their  odious  machinations."  "God 
and  my  courage  will  not  forsake  me,"  said  Habib,  "and 
you  yourself  will  contribute  to  my  success."  "Ah!  to  be 
sure,"  replied  the  genie,  "  I  might  be  of  great  service  to 
you  were  I  not  obliged  to  return  the  body  of  the  Indian 
warrior  to  the  dust ;  but  I  am  constrained  by  a  rigid  law 
which  I  cannot  elude.  Persevere  courageously  in  your 
noble  intentions.  Expect  not  that  I  should  now  point  out 
the  road  you  are  now  to  take.  You  are  divided  from  your 
mistress  by  the  whole  length  of  the  earth,  and  only  the 
orders  of  destiny  can  open  to  you  her  dominions,  which 
are  at  present  shut  up  on  all  sides  by  the  malice  of  her 
enemies." 

"You  once  told  me,  my  dear  II  Haboul,  that  the  brave 
man  might  bend  destiny  to  his  wishes."  "  You  may,  in- 
deed, take  such  violent  measures  when  no  choice  remains. 
But  have  patience  till  some  event  shall  direct  you  how  to 
act;  I  fear  that  whatever  you  might  undertake  at  present 
would  turn  out  against  you.  Go,  attack  lions,  one  of 
which  you  have  already  destroyed,  without  other  weapons 
than  your  poniard.  Make  yourself  beforehand  familiar 
with  dangers,  that  you  may  be  prepared  for  those  which 
await  you.  Farewell,  my  dear  Habib ;  I  return  no  more 
to  the  camp  of  Salamis  :  I  must  avoid  coming  to  any  ex- 
planation with  him;  and  if  you  let  him  know  who  I  am, 
and  who  I  have  been,  at  least  let  every  one  else  remain 
ignorant  of  these  circumstances.  Depend  upon  retaining 
the  friendship  of  him  who  has  not  always  been  a  friend 
to  mankind,  but  whom  you  have  fully  reconciled  to  them. 
Embrace  me!"  II  Haboul  now  mounted  his  steed  and 
rwe  away. 

As  soon  as  he  was  out  of  the  young  sultan's  sight,  he 
struck  into  the  desert,  and  halted  at  the  foot  of  a  hill. 
There  he  left  the  horse  on  which  he  rode,  and  having  dug 
a  grave, deposited  in  it  his  mortal  body;  and  availing  him- 
self of  ths  two  last  days  which  the  orders  of  Solomon  yet 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  415 

left  him,  proceeded  without  delay  to  the  frontiers  of  the 
dominions  of  Dorathil-goase. 

A  black  battalion  withstood  his  approach;  but  he  learned 
from  a  spirit  which  had  deserted,  that  the  White  Isle,  the 
Yellow  Isle,  the  Green,  the  Red,  and  the  Blue  Isles,  had 
been  subdued  by  the  genie  Abarikaff,  who,  although  at 
tirst  master  only  of  the  Black  Isle,  had  now  obtained  pos- 
session of  all  the  others,  and  of  the  seas  by  which  they  are 
divided. 

The  princess,  shut  up  in  her  capital  of  Medinaz-Ilballor,* 
was  no  longer  mistress  of  any  part  of  her  dominions  but 
the  territory  in  which  the  city  stood.  This  was  all  that 
the  protection  of  her  grandfather,  Illabousatrous,  and  the 
exertions  of  the  genii  whom  he  placed  as  her  viziers,  could 
save  from  the  rebel,  who  had  collected  a  legion  of  revolted 
spirits  from  the  depth  of  the  sea.  The  six  isles,  thus  re- 
duced under  the  power  of  the  evil  genii,  were  governed 
by  rulers  still  more  mischievous  and  tyrannical.  The 
people  were  the  victims  of  their  vices,  and  the  continual 
sport  of  their  diabolical  enchantments.  Dorathil-goase 
called  in  vain  on  the  deliverer  promised  her  by  fate.  All 
the  passes  were  guarded,  and  the  place  of  her  residence 
was  inaccessible  to  men.  All  nature  seemed  subject  to 
those  malignant  genii. 

II  Haboul  was  inwardly  distressed  to  see  so  many  ob- 
stacles opposed  to  his  pupil's  valor;  but  he  himself  was 
now  reduced  to  silence  and  inactivity,  and  could  only  wait 
with  impatience  for  the  time  when  his  protection  should 
become  necessary.  He  returned,  therefore,  to  the  duties 
of  his  former  post,  and  waited  for  the  issue  of  events. 

Habib,  upon  the  departure  of  his  master,  had  returned, 
hastily,  to  Salamis  and  Amirala,  and  acquainted  them 
with  the  wondrous  things  of  which  he  had  just  been  in- 
formed. The  sparkling  of  his  eyes,  the  elevation  of  his 
voice,  and  the  confusion  of  his  discourse,  well  expressed 
how  much  he  was  affected  by  the  dangers  and  the  charms 
of  Dorathil-goase,  the  perplexity  which  he  felt,  and  the 

*  The  city  of  erystsu. 


41(5  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

hopes  he  had  conceived.  "  On  me  only  is  she  to  rely,"  said 
be,  with  a  noble  assurance.  "I  can  know  no  rest  till  1 
have  delivered  her.  The  moments  are  precious.  No  per- 
son can  point  out  or  open  the  road  by  which  I  am  to  pro- 
ceed to  her  assistance  !  In  this  state  of  uncertainty,  what 
can  I  do?" 

His  parents  saw  that  this  uncommon  passion  was  pro- 
duced, not  so  much  by  sympathy,  as  by  the  influence  of 
the  stars,  which  they  could  not  counteract.  Instead  of 
combating  his  resolutions,  therefore,  they  only  laid  his 
duties  anew  before  him,  and  reminded  him  of  the  sage  ad- 
vice he  had  received  from  his  governor.  The  young  man, 
to  avoid  habits  of  sloth  and  inactivity,  and  to  accustom 
himself  still  more  and  more  to  hardship,  retired  from  the 
tents  of  the  tribe  to  a  solitary  recess,  which  he  and  II 
Haboul  had  formerly  prepared  together  in  a  sequestered 
vale,  surrounded  by  the  hills  adjoining  the  camp  of  Salamis. 

Here  they  had  amused  themselves,  amidst  their  martial 
exercises,  with  forming  a  dike  to  dam  up  the  course  of  a 
small  rivulet,  by  which  its  waters  were  collected  into  a 
natural  basin.  The  surrounding  trees  afforded  delightful 
shade,  and  diffused  ther*  branches  so  thick,  that  the  sur- 
rounding hills  could  scarcely  be  seen  through  the  foliage. 
The  greatest  variety  of  flowers,  the  rarest  plants,  the 
most  precious  aromatic  herbs,  grew  in  abundance  on  the 
banks  of  the  rivulet ;  and  the  ground  being  preserved  by 
the  coolness  of  the  water,  by  which  it  was  so  liberally  re- 
freshed, from  suffering  by  the  heat  of  the  sun,  displayed 
in  profusion  all  the  riches  of  nature.  At  a  small  distance 
stood  a  hut,  or  rather  a  palace,  formed  of  the  branches  of 
trees  covered  with  rushes,  and  spread  with  mats.  The 
skins  of  wild  animals,  which  they  had  slain,  formed  their 
sofas.  An  outer  fence  of  stakes  secured  this  little  dwelling 
against  any  hostile  assault. 

II  Haboul,  when  he  persuaded  Habib  to  form  this  rustic 
abode,  taught  him  how  he  might  one  day  supply  all  his 
own  wants.  Sitting  down  by  the  door,  he  invited  his 
pupil  to  contemplate  the  noble  amphitheatre  before  him. 
"Have  you  not  a  pleasure,"  continued  he,  "in  thinking 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  41T 

that  for  the  enjoyment  which  these  afford,  yoc  are  in- 
debted to  yourself  alone?  Thus  we  never  can  be  perfectly 
happy  but  through  ourselves." 

This  retirement,  of  which  Habib  was  very  fond,  was 
well  calculated  to  feed  his  growing  passion.  He  had  re- 
tired to  think  of  the  sole  object  of  his  wishes,  and  of  the 
means  by  which  they  might  be  united. 

One  day,  as  he  was  musing,  with  his  eyes  fixed  on  the 
Almos,  yet  without  reading,  and  his  imagination  absorbed 
in  the  ideas  of  love  and  war,  he  heard  a  sudden  noise  in 
the  air.  He  kneeled  down,  upon  this,  and  moving  the 
branches  aside  with  his  hand,  perceived  a  large  shade  de- 
scending over  the  pond.  After  continuing  its  progress  for 
a  small  space,  the  object  which  produced  this  shade  halted 
upon  the  brink  of  the  water.  It  was  a  bird  of  a  dark  gray 
color,  #nd  bore  upon  its  back  a  pavilion,  the  sides  of  which 
seemed  to  be  gauze,  and  the  doors  an-d  windows  were 
decorated,  all  about,  with  flowers. 

The  bird  alighted,  and  the  pavilion  opened.  A  golden 
staircase  was  let  down  from  it.  On  the  top  of  this  ap- 
peared a  figure,  supported  by  others  no  less  remarkable 
for  beauty.  On  her  head  she  wore  a  tiara  formed  of  the 
tresses  of  her  own  hair,  interwoven  with  strings  of  pearls. 
The  lily  and  the  rose  vied  in  her  cheek;  the  lustre  of  her 
eyes,  her  vermilion  lips,  and  the  lovely  dimples  around 
them,  bore  at  once  an  expression  of  smiling  sweetness  and 
keen  sensibility. 

She  raised  her  eyes  to  heaven,  and  the  sun  was  eclipsed; 
she  turned  them  upon  the  ground,  and  it  was  bespread 
with  flowers.  She  smiled,  and  all  nature  seemed  to  smile 
around  her.  But  how  was  Habib  affected  when  he  saw 
her  move  and  walk  with  grace  and  majesty  !  She  leaned 
on  the  arm  of  one  of  the  beauties  who  attended  her,  and 
thus  proceeded  to  the  sultan's  recess,  and  there  sat  down 
xpon  the  grass,  within  two  paces  of  him,  yet  without  per- 
ceiving him. 

She  looked  just  to  one  side,  then  to  the  other  ;  then, 
sighing,  said,  "  I  have  been  deceived.  He  is  not  here  ;  this 
is  not  the  place  of  his  retreat.     But  these  smiling  arbors 

2b 


418  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  sweet  murmur  of  these  waters,  these  flowers  which  art 
and  nature  conspire  to  rear,  all  here,  in  short,  are  his 
work.  But  he  is  not  here.  Oh,  thou  flowery  turf,  ye 
blossoming  bowers,  cherished  by  the  care  of  my  dear  Ha- 
bib,  lend  an  ear  to  my  words,  borrow  a  voice  to  tell  my 
tale,  and  inform  my  lover  when  he  shall  come  hither,  that 
the  tender  Dorathil-goase  came  to  the  midst  of  Arabia  in 
search  of  her  hero,  to  offer  him  her  throne  and  her  heart, 
and  to  accomplish  his  destiny.  Must  she  then  leave  these 
regions,  without  seeing  the  idol  of  her  soul?"  Thus 
spoke  the  princess  sorrowfully,  and  held  her  hands  to  her 
eyes  to  stop  her  tears,  which  were  ready  to  flow.  Habib 
at  this  moment  cast  himself  at  her  feet,  which  he  bedewed 
with  his  tears,  before  she  could  perceive  or  prevent  him. 

"Is  it  you,  then,  I  see?"  cried  she,  looking  at  once 
upon  the  young  hero  at  her  feet,  and  at  his  picture^which 
she  wore  constantly  in  her  bosom.  "Is  not  this  an  illu- 
sion, my  dear  Habib?"  "  It  is  your  lover,  your  deliverer, 
O  queen  of  my  soul ! "  replied  he  passionately,  kissing  her 
hand.  After  which,  silence  was  for  a  while  the  only 
expression  of  mutual  love  and  admiration. 

But  this  pure  and  exquisite  enjoyment  was  only  of  a 
moment's  duration.  A  sudden  noise  was  heard,  a  bird 
appeared  in  the  air,  approached,  and  by  an  instantaneous 
transformation  became  a  genie  in  the  human  form,  who 
presented  himself  to  Dorathil-goase.  "What,"  said  the 
queen,  ■ :  is  it  you,  Ilbaccaras  ?  What  urgent  reason  brings 
you  from  Medinaz-Ilballor,  to  find  me  here?" 

"  Queen,"  replied  the  genie,  "  by  your  absence  you  ex- 
pose yourself  to  lose  all  your  dominions.  The  rebel 
Abarikaff  has  taken  advantage  of  this  circumstance  to 
attack  the  only  isle  which  remains  to  you.  Tour  grand 
vizier  in  vain  opposes  so  numerous  a  host  of  enemies  as 
infest  your  shores.  All  the  rebel  genii  have  ranged  them- 
selves under  the  banner  of  your  adversary;  they  darken 
the  sea,  and  overspread  all  the  coasts.  Your  subjects  are 
tei rifled  with  the  roaring  of  lions,  sea-bulls,  and  hippo- 
potami, which  are  re-echoed  through  the  air  and  make 
your  capital   tremble.     Come  and  oppose  this  rage  with 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENT8.  419 

the  magic  of  your  talisman ;  seize  the  only  pass  which 
remains  open,  and  hold  your  way  through  the  middle 
region  of  'he  air." 

At  hearing  this  relation,  Habib  felt  his  blood  boil  within 
his  veins.  His  eyes  were  fired ;  his  stature  seemed  to  rise 
to  a  new  elevation;  his  voice  sounded  terribly.  "Let 
us  march  against  these  monsters,"  cried  he;  "I  will 
clear  the  earth  and  seas  of  them;  I  will  avenge  Heaven 
and  the  queen."  "  Prince,"  replied  Ilbaccaras,  in  aston- 
ishment, "if  you  were  properly  armed,  you  might  be 
equal  to  this  enterprise ;  but  the  enemies  of  the  great 
Solomon  can  only  be  vanquished  with  the  arms  of  Solo- 
mon. These  you  must  seek  on  the  heights  of  Mount 
Caucasus,  and  a  thousand  dangers  block  up  the  way." 
Then  speaking  to  the  queen,  "  Let  us  be  gone,  madam," 
said  he  ;  "  the  moments  are  precious ;  if  we  lose  but  one, 
the  wicked  Abarikaff  may  triumph." 

The  two  lovers  tenderly  embraced  each  other,  and 
parted  with  a  degree  of  fortitude  becoming  their  love. 
Dorathil-goase  seated  herself  in  her  pavilion ;  the  roc 
arose  into  the  air  and  disappeared.  Habib  followed  the 
flight  with  his  eyes,  and  now  gave  himself  up  with 
greater  ardor  than  ever  to  the  tenderness  of  love  and 
ambition  for  glory. 

"Adieu!  gentle  rivulet!"  said  he,  "  whose  waters  have 
so  quenched  my  thirst  and  bathed  my  limbs  ;  thou  canst 
be  of  no  further  service  to  me ;  my  heart,  my  blood,  my 
vitals  burn  with  a  flame  which  thou  canst  not  quench. 

"Adieu !  thou  flowery  plain,  on  which  my  love  has 
deigned  to  tread.  Preserve,  if  you  can,  the  print  of  her 
footsteps,  that  my  eyes  may  trace  them,  if  I  shall  ever 
return  hither. 

"Adieu  !  ye  tender  shrubs,  which  lent  her  your  shade  ; 
well  may  ye  boast  of  having  served  as  a  canopy  to  such 
charms ! 

"Adieu!  thou  land  which  has  witnessed  my  felicity; 
never  shall  Habib  forget  thee  !  The  palaces  of  the  kings 
of  the  world  shall  be  worthless  in  my  eyes,  in  comparison 
with  thee.    Here  my  soul  expanded  itself  for  tne  first  timt 


420  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

to  happiness;  here  I  first  felt  all  the  ardor  of  love!  but 
here,  too,  have  I  felt  the  most  cruel  loss  I  could  suffer , 
for  hence  was  Dorathil-goase  ravished  from  me  !  Yes,  1 
will  not  fear  to  brave  the  demons  of  darkness,  who  dis- 
pute with  me  the  possession  of  my  lovely  mistress  !  Great 
prophet!  oh!  do  thou  open  to  me  the  path  which  is  to 
conduct  me  to  glory  and  happiness !  I  will  pierce  the 
heart  of  the  traitor  Abarikaff;  and  thou,  great  Solomon! 
if  I  am  not  unworthy  of  wearing  thine  armor,  give  me 
wings  on  which  I  may  fly  to  Mount  Caucasus  !  Covered 
with  thy  buckler,  may  I  overthrow  the  enemies  of  the 
queen  of  my  heart." 

Habib,  having  after  this  performed  his  prayers  and 
ablutions,  returned  to  his  father's  tent,  determined  to  take 
the  road  to  Caucasus  as  soon  as  he  should  have  obtained 
permission.  It  may  be  easily  imagined  how  forcibly  he 
would  describe  to  Salamis  and  Amirala  the  circumstances 
of  his  last  adventure  ;  his  words  absolutely  painted.  But 
great  was  the  surprise  of  his  parents  when  he  uttered  a 
solemn  vow  before  them  not  to  rest  his  head  in  any  tent, 
till  he  should  first  stand  on  the  summit  of  Mount  Caucasus. 

"What  a  desperate  enterprise,  my  son,"  said  the  emir; 
"  know  you  not  that  Mount  Caucasus  is  situated  at  the 
utmost  limits  of  the  earth  ;  that  you  must  traverse  dread- 
ful deserts  before  you  can  reach  it  ?  Men  you  may  van- 
quish  ;  but  how  will  you  bear  the  severity  of  climates  to 
which  you  are  a  stranger?  How  can  you  "provide  against 
the  famine  which  desolates  the  immense  regions  through 
which  you  will  have  to  travel?  These  are  enemies  which 
you  cannot  overcome."  "Ah  !  father,"  replied  Habib,  "  can 
any  fear  hold  me  back,  when  I  go  under  the  impulse  of 
glory  and  fate  ?  And  even  though  I  were  a  stranger  to 
the  powerful  influences  of  these,  my  heart  naturally  glows 
with  a  detestation  of  tyrants ;  I  could  descend  into  the 
bowels  of  the  earth  to  tear  out  and  punish  the  base 
Abarikaff." 

Salamis  was  obliged  to  yield  to  sentiments  which  he  had 
himself  instilled  into  his  son's  heart ;  he  could  not  reply 
without   oontradk  'ing    his    own    principles.      He    chose 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  421 

twenty  men  of  tried  prudence  and  courage  to  attend  his 
son,  and  gave  them  commodious  and  suitable  equipage, 
with  two  camels  to  bear  the  tents  and  the  baggage. 

The  day  for  their  departure  came,  and  the  emir  was 
forced  to  tear  himself  from  the  arms  of  his  affectionate 
and  beloved  son.  Their  parting  scene  was  sorrowful  ; 
the  tender  Amirala  wept,  and  cried  : 

"  My  cedar,  fastened  by  strong  roots,  surpassing  in 
beauty  the  cedars  of  Lebanon.  The  birds  of  the  air  built 
their  nests  upon  its  branches;  our  flock  pastured  under 
the  shade ;  but,  lo  !  it  is  suddenly  borne  away  through  the 
parched  and  sandy  deserts. 

"  Ye  furious  winds,  strive  not  to  shake  it.  It  was  made 
to  brave  your  fury  ! 

"  Ye  gloomy  clouds,  ye  lightning,  ye  tempests,  whicb 
precede  the  bursting  of  the  thunder,  respect  a  stem  im 
pressed  with  the  seal  of  the  great  prophet!" 

" Enough,,  my  dear  Amirala,"  said  Salamis  ;  "our  son's 
intention  is  noble ;  he  is  bound  by  his  vow  to  prosecute 
this  enterprise;  the  lioness  nurses  not  her  whelps  for 
herself  alone;  when  age  and  enemies  call,  she  sends  them 
to  face  the  ferocious  tigers." 

The  company  at  length  departed.  Habib  wore  a  massy 
cuirass  of  Haoudi.  His  buckler  seemed  to  him  light,  but 
would  have  wearied  the  strongest  arm.  A  tree  of  the 
thickness  of  his  lance  would  afford  a  considerable  shade ; 
the  weight  of  his  scimitar  would  have  crushed  any  body 
which  might  not  have  been  pierced  by  its  blade. 

The  fatigues  of  the  journey  were  nothing  to  him  who 
marched  on  to  glory  and  to  Dorathil-goase ;  the  way 
seemed  to  be  strewed  with  flowers ;  yet  now  was  Habib 
in  the  midst  of  desei'ts,  destitute  of  all  the  comforts  of 
social  life,  and  exposed  to  all  the  pains  of  thirst  and  hun- 
ger; from  time  to  time,  chance  offered  some  wild  fruits, 
and  the  scanty  trickling  of  some  distant  springs;  these 
little  supplies  were  sufficient  to  make  him  forget  all  the 
wants  and  inconveniences  he  suffered.  But  the  soldiers 
who  accompanied  the  young  sultan  were  neither  lovers 
nor  heroes;  two  months  of  toilsome  travels  began  to  tire 
36 


422  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

them  ;  but  their  first  complaints  were  moderate.  By  a 
lucky  accident  they  found  on  their  way  a  place  inhabited 
by  shepherds,  which  afforded  them  enough  of  milk  to  fill 
their  skins.  Habib  expected  that  this  unhoped-for  refresh 
ment  would  renew  their  courage,  and  dispel  their  ill-hu- 
mor ;  but  his  attendants,  thinking  it  impossible  to  climb 
the  summit  of  Mjsunt  Caucasus,  without  being  exposed  to 
the  greatest  danger  of  perishing  by  hunger  and  fatigue, 
communicated  their  thoughts  to  the  young  sultan. 

"  1  imagined,"  said  he,  "  that  my  father  had  given  me 
men  to  accompany  me ;  but  you  are  only  women  in  the 
armor  of  men  ;  I  will  not  abuse  the  weakness  of  your  sex. 
However,  I  must  observe  that  you  have  already  come  too 
far  to  turn  back  without  exposing  yourself  to  great  dan- 
ger; but,  since  you  think  the  dangers  before  us  still  more 
formidable,  give  me  my  part  of  the  treasure  which  my 
father  put  into  your  hands.  Take  with  you  your  baggage 
and  camels.  I  can  lie  in  the  open  air.  It  wa$  not  to  re- 
ceive }"Our  assistance  that  I  accepted  you  for  my  compan- 
ions. I  supposed  you  men  fond  of  glory,  and  destined  to 
attain  it.  I  was  willing  to  share  my  own  glory  with  my 
brave  Arabian  brethren.  This  is  a  title  which  can  no 
longer  suit  you ;  let  us  part.  Go,  return  to  Salamis,  and 
tell  him  that  you  have  left  his  son  following  out  the  paths 
to  glory,  armed  with  vigor  and  courage,  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  great  prophet,  and  animated  with  the 
strongest  hopes  of  success." 

The  firmness  of  this  language  astonished  the  young  sul- 
tan's companions,  but  did  not  move  them  from  their  pur- 
pose. They  regarded  him  as  a  mad  and  obstinate  youth, 
disposed  to  sacrifice  all  that  was  valuable  to  vain  chimeras. 
We  are  accountable  for  our  lives,  said  they  among  them- 
selves, to  our  wives  and  children ;  and  should  be  mad  were 
we  to  yield  to  the  caprice  of  a  foolish  youth  who  runs 
headlong  upon  death,  while  he  is  seeking  this  Mount  Cau- 
casus, which  seems  to  fly  before  us;  our  harness  is  worn 
out ;  our  horses  are  dying  ;  we  shall  soon  be  left  without 
resource  amidst  the  deserts.  However,  added  they,  if  we 
return  without  him  to  Arabia,  Salamis  will  look  upon  us 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  423 

%h  cowardly  deserters  from  his  son,  and  we  shall  not  es- 
cape his  vengeance.  If  this  Habib  should  die  here,  there 
is  no  lack  of  plants  to  embalm  him ;  we  could  put  his  body 
on  one  of  our  camels,  and  carry  it  quietly  back  to  his 
father. 

Cowardice  leads  to  ingratitude;  and  ungrateful  senti- 
ments to  wicked  actions.  Those  perfidious  friends  soon 
concurred  in  the  base  design  of  murdering  their  young 
master.  But  how  should  they  surprise  his  vigilance?  He 
was  always  in  arms,  and  always  ready  to  sell  his  life  at  a 
dear  rate,  if  any  should  attempt  to  ravish  it  from  him. 
By  night  he  rested  on  his  buckler,  and  the  least  noise 
would  awake  him  ;  his  valor  and  activity  never  sunk  into 
deep  sleep. 

Among  the  conspirators  was  one  who  viewed  the  crimi- 
nal enterprise  with  abhorrence,  but  durst  not  speak  his 
sentiments.  He  feared  the  resentment  of  the  rest  so  much 
the  more,  because  he  had  murmured  as  well  as  they.  By 
revealing  their  designs  to  Habib  again,  he  would  expose  the 
whole  troop  to  his  vengeance,  and  might  find  the  issue 
fatal  to  himself.  If  the  hero  were  victorious,  he  alone 
would  remain  to  attend  him. 

In  this  uncertainty,  he  spoke  thus  to  his  companions: 
"Why."  said  he,  "would  you  expose  yourselves  to  the 
danger  of  a  contest?  Habib  had  his  poniard  always  in  bis 
hand.  Before  you  could  deprive  him  of  motion  even,  al- 
though covered  with  your  cuirasses,  his  sword  would  find 
its  way  to  your  hearts.  But  there  is  a  surer  and  less  san- 
guinary measure  which  you  may  adopt.  I  know  an  herb 
which  grows  in  these  places  ;  its  leaves  are  covei*ed  with 
a  white  powder,  which  operates  with  greater  energy  than 
opium.  I  will  gather  some  plants  of  it ;  and  as  I  have  the 
care  of  the  evening  provisions,  I  can  find  a  time  to  ad- 
minister to  him  this  specific;  and  then  you  may  execute 
your  purpose  without  danger.  If  we  can  fulfil  our  inten- 
tion by  laying  him  asleep,  why  should  we  stain  our  hands 
with  his  blood  ?  He  never  offended  any  of  us.  If  he  re- 
quires us  to  hazard  our  lives  in  pursuit  of  a  chimerical 
object,  he  exposes  his  own  with  sufficient  gallantry  at  the 


424  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

same  time.  His  reason  is  disordered,  and  he  hurries  for. 
ward  to  his  destruction ;  but  cannot  we  provide  for  oui 
own  safety,  without  attempting  his  life  ?  He  is  son  to  the 
brave  Salamis,  in  whose  dominions  our  wives  and  children 
sleep  in  peace,  under  the  shadow  of  whose  buckler  our 
flocks  pasture  in  security.  To  us  he  was  always  a  kind 
lather.  Is  there  one  among  us  with  whom  he  has  not 
shared  his  provisions  to  the  last  morsel  ?  Let  us  beware 
then  of  shedding  innocent  blood  I  The  great  prophet  will 
one  day  demand  him  at  our  hands.  Let  us  leave  Habib 
in  these  deserts ;  after  we  have  deprived  him  of  his  arms, 
and  of  all  means  of  help  and  support,  we  need  not  fear 
that  he  shall  ever  come  to  tax  us  with  ingratitude." 

The  conspirators  hearkened  to  Rabir's  advice,  and  he 
was  employed  to  put  their  project  in  execution.  He  culled 
some  stalks  of  a  plant  which  he  knew  to  be  a  mortal 
poison ;  he  was  careful  to  prepare  it  in  such  a  manner  that 
death  would  not  be  the  immediate  result  of  swallowing  it; 
and  on  that  very  evening  an  opportunity  offered  for  ad- 
ministering it. 

The  company  arrived  in  a  plain  where  the  cool  water  of 
a  small  rill  nourished  on  its  sides  a  quantity  of  fresh  and 
luxuriant  herbage.  Habib,  at  their  earnest  entreaty,  laid 
down  to  rest,  yielding  to  their  advice  rather  out  of  pru- 
dence than  because  he  had  any  need  of  repose.  He  retired 
in  unsuspecting  security  to  his  tent,  took  some  food  and 
with  it  swallowed  a  part  of  the  poison,  which  had  been 
infused  into  a  cup  of  milk.  The  conspirators  took  advan- 
tage of  the  deep  sleep  which  soon  seized  upon  their  chief 
removed  from  him  everything  they  could,  and  departed  in 
all  haste,  leaving  young  Habib  nothing  but  his  buckler 
under  his  head,  his  cloak  upon  which  he  slept,  and  his 
poniard  which  he  had  stuck  in  his.  girdle.  Thus  did  these 
twenty  knights,  chosen  by  Salamis  to  attend  his  son, 
abandon  the  young  hero ;  they  returned  toward  Arabia, 
and  after  undergoing  many  fatigues,  arrived  within  sight 
of  the  flags  which  waved  from  the  emir's  tents. 

That  moment  which  might  have  been  expected  to  be  to 
them  an  occasion  ef  exulting  joy,  overwhelmed  them  with 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  425 

anxiety,  perplexity,  and  remorse.  "How,"  said  they, 
"shall  we  appear  before  Salamis  ?  Or  how  tell  him  of  the 
loss  of  his  son  ?  Babir,  you  who  conti'ived  and  have  hith- 
erto so  well  managed  the  scheme  by  which  we  rid  our- 
selves of  the  youth,  help  us  to  bring  it  to  a  happy  issue." 
"  You  are  mistaken  in  respect  to  my  purpose,"  replied  he; 
"  when  I  saw  you  resolved  to  shed  the  blood  of  young 
Habib,  1  sought  to  divert  you  from  the  crime,  by  pretend- 
ing to  assist  you  in  accomplishing  it.  With  this  view  only 
did  I  become  your  accomplice.  I  am  now,  however,  tor- 
tured with  remorse.  I  cannot  invent  a  lie  to  conceal  my 
treachery.  My  looks,  my  silence,  my  confusion,  will  all 
tend  to  betray  vis.  Let  the  boldest  among  you  tell  the 
fabricated  tale:  1  cannot.  It  is  impossible  for  me  to  help 
you."  "  Well,"  replied  one  among  the  number,  "  I  under- 
take the  task." 

The  caravan  arrived  in  the  camp  of  Salamis.  The  emir 
and  Amirala  came  eagerly  to  meet  the  company,  in  hopes 
of  again  seeing  their  son.  But  great  was  their  surprise, 
when  they  saw  tears  flow  from  every  eye.  He  who  had 
undertaken  to  speak,  advanced  before  the  rest,  and  thus 
addressed  Salamis  : 

"Powerful' emir,  we  return  in  sorrow  for  the  mournful 
news  we  must  tell.  But  why  should  we  seek  to  hide  what 
you  cannot  but  discover?  You  seek  your  son  ;  but  Heaven 
has  ravished  him  from  your  hopes.  The  deserts  which 
we  have  traversed  are  full  of  venomous  serpents,  which 
lie  concealed  among  the  sands.  The  young  sultan  kneel- 
ing down  one  evening  to  pray,  spread  his  mantle  before 
him  on  the  ground,  but  just  as  he  kneeled  upon  it,  a  ser- 
pent sprung  up  and  stung  him  in  the  face.  The  most 
alarming  illness  instantly  followed,  and  death  shortly  after 
terminated  his  sufferings.  We  would  have  embalmed  the 
body,  and  brought  it  back  with  us,  but  it  was  so  infected 
by  the  poison  that  we  were  obliged  to  cover  it  up  hastily 
in  the  sand,  in  order  to  avoid  the  pestilential  contagion 
with  which  it  threatened  us." 

At  this  news,  the  emir  rent  his  robe,  tore  his  beard,  and 
threw  dust  upon  his  body.     The  camp  resounded  with  th« 

36* 


t26  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

cries  of  the  inconsolable  Amirala,  and  Salamis's  sixty -six 
tribes  put  on  the  garb  of  mourning. 

In  the  meantime,  what  did  young  Habib  ?  Had  he 
again  opened  his  eyes  to  the  light?  or  had  the  force  of  the 
poison  deprived  the  queen  of  the  Seven  Seas  of  her  sweet- 
est hope  ? 

The  sun  appeared  in  all  his  glory  in  the  east,  through  a 
horizon  entirely  cleared  from  vapors,  and  darted  his  rays 
on  Habib's  eyelids.  The  birds,  already  awake,  thrilled 
their  notes  upon  the  tops  of  the  trees  which  shaded  the 
meadow;  the  balmy  fragrance  of  the  flowers  entered  the 
nostrils  of  the  hero  ;  a  gentle  breeze  waved  his  hair,  and 
softly  fanned  his  cheek  ;  all  nature  awakening  from  the 
stillness  and  repose  of  night  concurred  to  rouse  him,  and 
the  power  of  the  liquid  which  had  been  administered, 
being  now  gone,  could  no  longer  chain  down  his  senses. 
He  opened  his  eyes,  and  being  charmed  with  the  ravishing 
sight  before  him,  imagined  himself  to  be  enjoying  the 
illusions  of  some  enchanting  dream. 

But  this  error  did  not  long  last.  He  arose,  and  recov- 
ered the  use  of  his  senses  and  his  memory.  He  sought  to 
discover  where  he  was,  but  all  around  remained  silent. 
He  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  saw  only  deserts  extending  in 
the  distant  prospect  before  him.  He  called  for  his  com- 
panions, his  arms,  and  his  steed  ;  but  all  were  gone.  "Oh  f 
treason,"  cried  he,  "  thy  knights  are  base  and  faithless  ; 
they  dread  toil  and  death;  to  escape  from  danger  they 
have  not  feared  to  expose  themselves  to  infamy  ;  mourn, 
hapless  Arabia ! 

"  Hapless  Arabia  !  thy  glory  is  no  more !  Tear  thy 
hairs  ;  cast  dust  upon  tnine  head ;  bathe  thy  face  with 
tears;  cry,  groan,  howl,  lament;  let  the  tigers  and  pan- 
thers hear  -with  terror  !  thou  hast  given  birth  to  base  and 
disloyal  men  !  Ah !  who  on  earth  can  be  loyal,  since  an 
Arabian  knight  ceases  to  be  so  ?  Men  !  you  shall  be  forever 
abhorred  ;  the  great  prophet  has  despised  his  own  nation 
ie  fertile  lands  of  our  country,  the  seed  shall  wither  or 
change  its  nature  in  your  bosom;  henceforth  shall  ye  bear 
mily  wild  fruits.  Ye  happy  flocks  in  our  vales,  your 
adders  ghall  become  dry! 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  427 

"A<  tive  and  industrious  people !  who  bear  rich  abun- 
dance, even  through  the  parched  plains  of  Hesebon  and 
Philarioth  ;  who  said  to  the  desert,  thou  shalt  be  desert 
no  more;  see  the  flags  of  your  tents  stream  through  the 
air ;  enjoy  your  success !  And  you,  who  were  once  a 
happy  people,  descend  from  those  strong  places  where 
are  all  your  possessions,  disarm  yourselves  of  those  buck- 
lers and  lances,  which  vainly  load  your  arms ;  prepare  for 
fight  or  slavery ;  the  darts  you  throw,  the  arrows  shot 
from  your  bows  are  become  useless  reeds,  now  since  the 
honor  of  Arabia  is  no  morel  Hold  out  your  hands  to 
receive  the  conqueror's  fetters ;  where  virtue  resides  not, 
liberty  can  no  longer  subsist. 

"  Insult  no  more  the  effeminate  son  of  Egypt,  or  the 
Syrian,  who,  in  pursuit  of  riches,  commits  himself  to  the 
inconstancy  of  the  billows.  Remember  you  have  none 
now  to  defend  you. 

"  O  Salamis  !  O  my  father !  when  you  shall  demand 
buck  from  those  base  cowards  the  treasure  with  which 
you  intrusted  them;  when  your  awful  voice  shall  say. 
where  is  my  son  ?  ah  !  how  will  their  souls  be  filled  with 
terror !  The  bowels  of  the  earth  shall  yawn  when  it  is 
too  late,  and  swallow  them  up.  Ye  coward  souls,  return 
not  to  Arabia.  Afflict  not,  by  your  hateful  presence,  those 
whom  you  have  dishonored.  You  feared  toil,  famine,  and 
death,  if  you  should  follow  me ;  but  may  toils  and  famine 
pursue  you  from  desert  to  desert ! 

"  Thou  star  which  didst  preside  over  the  birth  of  Habib, 
and  hast  called  him  to  a  high  destiny  through  thickest 
dangers,  cast  an  eye  now  upon  him.  He  despises  the 
present  danger,  and  marches  on  to  encounter  others. 
May  thine  influence  thus  enable  him  to  brave  all  dangers, 
and  sustain  him  in  his  career. 

"Strength  of  the  Mussulmans!  fall  at  his  feet!"  With 
these  words,  Habib  fell  on  his  knees  beside  the  spring, 
performed  his  ablution,  and  prayed  to  God  and  the  great 
prophet  with  more  fervor,  no  doubt,  but  with  equal  calm 
ness,  as  if  he  had  been  in  his  father's  tent. 

He  looked  toward  the  polar  star,  which  was  hencefor- 
ward his  guide,  and  perceived  a  steep  and  lofty  mountain. 


428  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

which  he  determined  to  ascend.  He  saw  beside  him  his 
mantle  and  buckler.  "Dear  gifts  of  Heaven  !"  criei  he, 
"yon  hive  been  torn  out  of  the  hands  of  treachery;  you 
shall  be  my  defence!"  He  next  found  his  poniard  in  his 
girdle:  "Fear  not,  Dorathil-goase,"  said  he,  "your  knight 
is  not  disarmed;  enough  is  left  him  wherewith  to  avenge 
you  on  your  enemies." 

Before  setting  out,  he  provided  himself  with  some  wild 
plants,  of  which  II  Haboul  had  taught  him  the  use,  and 
of  which  the  roots  were  to  serve  him  for  food.  He  then 
proceeded  on  his  journey  with  less  anxiety  than  when  he 
had  twenty  men  accompanying  him  with  reluctance.  His 
bare  head  bore  without  inconvenience  all  the  torrid  heat 
of  the  sun.  Being  no  less  agile  than  vigorous,  he  pro- 
ceeded with  great  speed  ;  he  stopped  only  to  pray  occa- 
sionally; and  from  time  to  time  refreshed  himself  by  chew- 
ing the  roots  which  he  had  gathered. 

Before  night  he  reached  the  mountain  which  he  had 
seen  before  him  in  the  morning.  He  there  saw  a  deep 
gully  full  of  water;  but  so  deep  that  it  could  not  be 
reached  without  great  trouble.  A  tree  hung  over  this 
cavern,  which  had  been  hollowed  out  by  the  force  of  tor- 
rents from  the  mountains.  He  cut  the  roots  of  another 
tree  with  his  poniard,  joined  this  to  the  former,  and  by 
means  of  the  two  glided  softly  down  to  the  bottom  of  the 
gully,  and  there  quenched  his  burning  thirst.  Yet  so 
much  was  he  affected  by  this  unlooked-for  favor  from 
Heaven,  that  he  would  not  satisfy  his  necessity  till  he 
had  first  performed  his  ablution,  and  thanked  the  Author 
of  nature,  and  Mohammed  his  prophet.  After  this,  he 
drank  and  came  up  out  of  the  cavity. 

He  was  obliged  to  pass  the  night  here,  and  to  keep  on 
his  guard  against  wild  animals.  At  the  distance  of  a  few 
paces  he  perceived  a  rock  hollowed  out  by  the  waters. 
He  soon  gathered  a  number  of  large  stones,  and  formed 
a  sort  of  cavern,  in  which  he  could  sleep  safely.  He  then 
spread  his  mantle,  laid  his  buckler  under  his  head,  and 
fell  asleep,  yet  not  without  first  reflecting  on  his  situation. 

"  The  bra,Te  man,"  said  he  to  himself,  "finds  every whera 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  429 

1  tent;  whereas  the  coward  knows  not  where  to  lay  his 
bead. 

"Happy  he  who  learns  in  camps  to  sleep  while  the 
*iumpet  sounds  !  even  thunder  will  not  disturb  his  rest. 

"  II  Haboul  and  my  father  taught  me  to  become  a  man  ; 
and  here  I  am,  the  man  formed  by  my  father  and  II  Haboul. 

"  Salamis  !  II  Haboul !  Dorathil-goase  !  behold  your  son, 
your  pupil,  your  lover.  He  rests  in  peace  upon  a  rock, 
confident  that  he  shall  awake  to  glory.    ■ 

"  Ye  stars,  inimical  to  our  happiness  !  you  oppose  the 
decrees  of  Heaven,  and  shall  one  day  be  driven  from  it;  I 
brave  you  under  the  vast  mass  which  shelters  me;  a  pa- 
vilion framed  by  the  hands  of  men  would  leave  me  exposed 
to  your  malignity." 

Habib  having  uttered  these  sentiments,  fell  asleep.  The 
savage  inhabitants  of  the  forest  discovering  the  tracks  of 
the  traveller's  footsteps,  came  to  prowl  around  the  cav- 
ern. They  uttered  dreadful  yells,  and  contended  for  their 
prey,  before  they  reached  him.  Love  might  have  held 
the  lover  of  Dorathil-goase  awake,  but  fear  could  not 
disturb  him.  He  was  in  need  of  repose;  and  sleep,  not- 
withstanding the  frightful  noise  of  lions  and  tigers,  kindly 
strewed  her  poppies  over  him. 

At  length  the  sun  arose,  and  his  rays  penetrated  through 
the  chinks  of  the  cavern  in  which  young  Habib  lay.  He 
awoke,  came  out,  went  down  again  to  the  water,  washed 
himself,  prayed,  and  then  refreshing  himself  with  the  few 
roots  he  had  in  reserve,  resumed  his  mantle  and  buckler, 
and  went  on  his  way. 

Hardly  had  he  reached  the  summit  of  one  mountain, 
when  another  still  more  inaccessible,  rose  before  him.  No 
road  nor  path  by  which  it  was  possible  to  climb  up,  ap- 
peared. He  might,  indeed,  ascend  by  leaping  and  scram- 
bling from  rock  to  rock.  In  the  plain  he  had  to  travel 
over  a  heavy  and  scorching  sand;  not  a  tuft  of  grass  was 
to  be  seen  even  on  those  spots  which  were  best  sheltered 
from  the  sun ;  not  a  drop  of  water ;  nature  had  dried  all 
up,  and  seemed  to  be  leading  the  traveller  on  the  waj  te 
the  world  below. 


430  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Habib,  worn  out  with  fatigue,  with  thirst,  and  hunger 
now  found  all  his  provision  of  roots  exhausted.  He  quick 
ened  his  pace,  that  he  might  reach  the  mountain  before 
him  ere  it  were  night.  He  at  length  gained  it,  but  found 
no  spring  nor  gully.  He  hastily  reared  a  hut  of  loose 
stones,  within  which  he  shut  himself  up,  overpowerci  by 
fatigue,  and  tortured  with  hunger.  However,  he  tried 
the  only  means  which  remained  by  which  he  might  cool 
his  tongue  and  palate.  Having  observed  the  dews  fall  in 
great  abundance  in  the  countries  through  which  he  was 
travelling,  he  spread  his  handkerchief  on  a  rock  without 
the  cavern,  intending  to  squeeze  the  dew  from  it,  when 
it  should  have  imbibed  enough. 

After  taking  this  precaution,  which  saved  him  from  a 
greater  evil,  he  performed  the  duties  of  a  pious  Mussul- 
man, and  lay  down  to  rest.  But  he  could  not  fall  asleep 
without  communing  with  himself. 

"  Speak,"  said  he  ;  "  Habib,  answer  !  When  thou  wast 
destined  to  pursue  glory  through  the  midst  of  dangers,  did 
fate  at  the  same  time  decree  that  thou  shouldst  find  means 
of  support  by  the  way  ? 

"  Thou  art  in  a  desert.  Ask  Mohammed  why  he  has 
not  ordered  Moses  to  rain  honey  and  manna  upon  thee, 
as  they  were  rained  upon  the  children  of  Abraham '{ 

"Born  to  fight,  thou  dost  fight!  Be  firm,  Habib.  Heaven 
is  for  thee ;  but  thou  must  also  act  for  thyself. 

"The  applause  of  Salamis,  of  II  Haboul,  of  Ainirala,  of 
heaven  itself,  the  heart  and  hand  of  Dorathil-goase,  the 
throne  of  the  seven  seas  —  these  are  the  prizes  reserved 
for  thy  valor.  Pass  firmly  through  the  fire ;  thou  march- 
est  on  to  glory." 

Habib  thus  recovering  patience  and  courage,  slept  in 
peace.  He  awaked  with  the  dawn  of  morn,  and  went  out 
to  take  up  his  handkerchief.  0  Providence  !  O  goodness ! 
The  linen  which  he  wrung  into  the  hollow  of  a  stone,  fur- 
nished him  with  a  cup  of  blessing,  a  most  delicious  bever- 
age, since  it  was  seasoned  by  want. 

His  heart  overflowed  with  gratitude,  and,  as  he  pursued 
bis  journey,  he  said,  "  He  who  gave  me  the  dew,  taught 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  43J 

me  now  to  avail  myself  of  it.  Blessed  be  the  author  of 
the  universe!  Ye  pointed  rocks,  calcined  by  the  sun  at 
your  Creator's  'word,  you  once  poured  forth  gushing 
springs !  Thirst  and  hunger  flee  before  the  Lord  of  Na- 
ture.   The  stores  of  abundance  are  opened  at  his  pleasure." 

The  traveller,  proceeding  on  his  way,  found  between 
two  rocks  a  tiger's  den.  The  female  was  there  with  her 
young.  At  the  sight  of  the  hero,  her  eyes  glared  with 
keener  fires;  her  hair  stood  on  end;  she  lashed  the  air 
with  her  tail,  and  the  rocks  re-echoed  her  roar.  She 
sprang  upon  our  hero;  he  opposed  her  with  his  buckler, 
and  drawing  his  poniard,  plunged  it  with  a  firm  and  vig- 
orous hand  into  the  animal's  heart.  The  tigress  fell ;  and 
the  hero,  to  avail  himself  of  the  adventure  to  the  best 
advantage,  made  a  mantle  of  her  skin,  cut  away  such 
parts  of  her  body  as  he  could  use  for  food,  and  thanked 
Heaven  and  Mohammed  for  his  victory. 

It  was  late,  and  he,  therefore,  needed  to  think  of  a  re- 
treat for  the  night ;  the  tiger's  den  afforded  him  one  ready 
prepared.  He  killed  the  young  tigers,  arranged  things  in 
the  most  commodious  manner  within,  and  shut  up  the 
mouth  with  a  large  stone,  upon  which  he  laid  out  his 
handkerchief  to  receive  the  dew.  He  then  lay  down 
upon  the  skin  of  the  tigress. 

After  the  dew  of  the  evening  was  fallen,  he  took  in  his 
handkerchief,  and  squeezed  its  contents  into  the  skull  of 
the  tigress.  Some  bits  of  her  flesh  dried  in  the  sun,  af- 
forded him  a  few  delicious  morsels.  Having  thus  satisfied 
his  wants,  he  lay  down  to  rest  from  his  fatigue,  and  hav- 
ing elevated  his  soul  with  the  most  sublime  ideas,  fell 
asleep. 

"  The  blessings  of  the  Almighty,"  said  he,  "are  diffused 
through  all  nature.  When  she  holds  them  back,  the  indus- 
trious man  can  force  them  from  her. 

"  Thanks  to  thee,  6  Mohammed  !  thou  hast  looked  with 
favor  on  young  Habib,  deserted  by  bis  friends  and  coun 
trymen  !  Thou  hast  given  him  for  a  companion  one  of 
thy  subject  spirits. 

"  Everything  is  easy  to  me.     The  enemy  which  rose  up 


432  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

before  me,  fell  by  a  single  blow ;  ber  skin  serves  me  for  a 
garment ;  her  flesh  feeds  me,  and  I  drink  out  of  her  skull. 

"  Tremble,  ye  audacious  enemies  of  Dorathil-goase  ;  the 
knight  has  been  victorious,  even  unarmed.  He  marches 
on  under  the  protection  of  the  prophet  to  win  the  arms 
of  Solomon." 

Habib,  invigorated  with  new  strength  and  courage,  am 
ticipated  the  dawn  of  day,  and  proceeded  on  his  journey 
with  greater  activity  than  >3ver.  But  he  saw  not  yet  the 
term  of  his  toils;  new  obstacles  and  dangers  seemed  still 
to  rise  before  him.  Precipitous  hills  appeared  in  endless 
succession  ;  and  from  their  summits  naught  was  to  be  seen 
but  wide-spread  deserts.  In  those  pathless  ways  which 
man  had  never  trod,  where  no  living  creature  was  to  be 
seen  but  wild  beasts  which  fled  before  him,  or  met  his 
poniard,  and  monstrous  serpents,  which  he  was  obliged  to 
crush  with  broken  rocks,  courage  was  unnerved  by  un- 
certainty, and  the  natural  vigor  of  the  hero  began  to 
diminish. 

Upon  the  declivity  of  one  of  the  highest  hills  he  had 
yet  crossed,  when  he  had  no  food  remaining  but  a  few 
roots,  he  looked  before  him,  and  saw  a'sandy  plain  ter- 
minated by  the  horizon.  He  could  hope  for  no  relief  or 
refreshment,  till  he  should  have  crossed  that  wide  desert. 
To  an  ordinary  man  this  would  have  been  matter  for  de- 
spair; but  Habib  thought  only  how  he  might  best  over- 
come the  new  difficulties  to  which  he  here  saw  himself 
exposed. 

He  could  not  travel  over  this  plain  by  day  without  being 
scorched  by  the  reflection  of  the  sun's  rays,  and  losing 
the  use  of  his  feet  among  the  burning  sands;  nor  could  he 
find  a  drop  of  water  to  quench  his  thirst.  By  night,  ho-\\> 
should  he  form  a  place  of  retreat  amidst  burning  sands  ? 
The  tigers  and  panthers  which  prowl  in  the  hours  of  dark- 
ness might  seize  him  unawares,  and  make  him  their  prey. 
Habib  resolved  to  rest  by  day,  and  by  night  to  proceed  on 
bis  journey,  under  the  guidance  of  the  bright  northern  star. 

At  the  sight  of  the  ocean  of  sand  which  opened  before 
h^m  while  the  sun  was  yet  in  his  meridian,  he  stopped,  and 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  433 

by  means  of  his  poniard,  disposed  his  buckler  so  as  to 
shelter  his  head  from  the  sun's  rays,  and  then  lay  Jown 
upon  his  tiger's  skin,  and  fell  asleep. 

The  night  no  sooner  spread  her  curtain,  than  he  arose 
and  went  on.  The  handkerchief  for  receiving  the  dew 
was  bound  about  his  neck,  and  floated  over  his  shoulders; 
thus  he  could  quench  his  thirst ;  but  how  should  he  satisfy 
his  hunger?  Only  two  of  the  roots  were  left,  and  he 
knew  not  when  Providence  would  afford  him  another  sup- 
ply. However,  he  went  cheerfully  on  ;  and  he  proceeded 
with  wonder  at  the  spectacle  which  the  heavens  displayed 
to  his  eyes. 

"  The  splendid  vault  of  heaven,"  said  he,  "  surrounds  all 
nature,  and  covers  even  the  naked  desert.  Is  there  a 
single  spot  on  earth  where  man  will  not  find  himself  forced 
to  admire  the  wonders  of  his  Creator's  power  ?  Should  I 
go  down  into  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  there  would  I  find 
gold  and  rubies,  and  rivers  still  more  precious.  The  moon 
rises  in  the  horizon,  to  supply  the  place  of  the  absent  sun. 
The  stars,  dispensers  of  the  dew,  have,  already  advanced 
before  her.  You  shall  be  refreshed,  ye  barren  sands.  But 
the  sun,  when  he  darts  his  rays  on  you,  cannot  move  you. 
Nothing  can  ever  fertilize  your  barren  nature.  The  un- 
grateful heart  is  like  the  sand  of  the  desert.  The  favors 
of  Heaven  are  showered  upon  it  without  making  any  im- 
pression which  may  show  them  to  have  been  there. 

"Courage,  Habib!  thou  shalt  never  despise  what  has 
been  done  for  thee.  Behold  that  emotion  in  the  sky. 
There,  at  this  very  instant,  is  thy  destiny  weighed.  Away 
then  with  fear !  put  a  steady  and  vigorous  foot  on  the 
balance ;  thou  shalt  thus  weigh  it  down  to  thy  side.  See 
how  calm  the  upper  region!  There  are  thy  judges:  Mo- 
hammed and  his  seven  prophets  are  soliciting  for  thee  ! 

"Great  Prophet,  friend  of  God!  a  Mussulman  cries  to 
thee  in  the  desert ;  hear,  hear  his  voice ! 

"The  object  he  pursues  is  worthy  of  a  here.  Thou 
wast  on  earth  a  model  for  heroes.  Glory  and  love  inflame 
his  heart !  Thou  disdainest  none  who  bear  the  stamp  of 
virtue." 

37  2  C 


434  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Thus  Habib,  as  he  travelled,  forgot  his  wants  and  fa 
tigues.  As  he  looked  toward  the  desert  he  thought  ho 
discerned  a  small  black  spot.  "At  last,"  said  he,  "this 
plain  has  limits  ;  what  I  see  is  no  doubt  a  mountain,  or  a 
collection  of  vapors  over  some  tract  of  inhabitable  country. 
Thou  shalt  see  men.  Habib.  The  passions,  indeed,  arm  us 
against  one  another;  but  man  always  rejoices  at  the  sight 
of  his  fellow.  These  have,  perhaps,  never  seen  the  child 
of  Providence.  I  shall  show  him  to  them,  and  force  them 
to  believe  in  Providence.  I  will  not  say  I  must  have  gold, 
silver,  flocks,  tents,  or  slaves :  I  will  only  ask  a  pitcher 
of  water,  a  handful  of  rice,  and  the  road  to  Caucasus!" 

Habib  in  vain  made  prodigious  efforts  to  reach  the" 
black  spot.  It  still  appeared  at  the  same  distance.  He 
was  tortured  to  agony  by  hunger  and  thirst,  and  scorched 
by  the  burning  heat.  He  stopped  at  length,  and  lay  down. 
His  imagination,  filled  with  ideal  hopes,  soon  soothed  him, 
into  sleep.  The  coolness  of  the  evening  awaked  him 
He  had  been  tossed  and  agitated  with  painful  dreams.  A 
rivulet  seemed  to  run  backward  to  its  source,  to  refuse  him 
drink  ;  abundance  of  sumptuous  meats  were  set  before  him, 
but  before  he  could  taste  them  they  were  removed  by  in- 
visible hands.  He  arose,  greatly  fatigued,  and  hoped  that, 
after  continuing  his  journey  through  the  night,  by  morn- 
ing to  have  reached  the  object  toward  which  his  eyes 
were  constantly  directed.  He  exerted  all  his  strength, 
and  used  every  means  to  withstand  the  fatigue  which  ex- 
hausted him.  Strong  in  his  own  courage  solely,  he  yet 
triumphed,  and  rose  superior  to  himself. 

Day  at  length  returned  ;  but  still  the  black  spot  ap- 
peared at  the  same  distance  as  before.  Habib's  feet  were 
uncovered,  and  the  torrid  sand  scorched  them  ;  one  cloud 
of  dust  was  still  blown  upon  him  after  another,  and  his 
strength  was  entirely  exhausted  ;  everything  seemed  to 
fail  him,  and  he  became  almost  hopeless.  He  spread  tho 
tiger's  skin  upon  the  sand,  fell  down  with  his  knees  upon 
it,  and  raising  his  hands,  thus  addressed  his  ardent  prayer 
to  Heaven,  calling  out  in  a  voice  of  grief  mixed  with 
confidence  : 


ARABTAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  435 

"I  am  lost  in  an  ocean  of  sand,  the  limits  of  wt  ich  ] 
jannot  perceive.  The  earth  flees  before  me  like  a  cloud 
1  have  called  on  the  burning  sand  to  afford  me  water  fo* 
ablution;  it  obeyed  and  1  am  purified.  The  Creator  will 
bring  the  earth  to  meet  me  and  supply  my  wants. 

"  See,  my  feet  refuse  to  bear  me,  my  legs  stagger,  my 
knees  bend  ;  yet  I  will  crawl,  even  on  my  belly,  to  the 
place  whither  I  am  called  by  the  decrees  of  fate.  But 
what  wilt  thou  say,  0  great  Prophet,  to  see  a  child  of  thy 
tribe  crawl  like  a  worm  ?" 

While  he  thus  spoke,  and  his  eyes  were  still  fixed  on  the 
object  toward  which  he  seemed  to  be  vainly  travelling,  he 
observed  a  point  parting  from  it,  and  moving  toward  him 
through  the  air;  it  sailed  for  some  time  through  the  fir- 
mament, after  which  it  came  down.  It  proved  to*  be  a 
bird  of  monstrous  size.  It  was  a  roc.  It  alighted  within 
fifty  paces  of  him,  and  there  rested  for  some  time,  mo- 
tionless. 

Habib  arose  and  advanced  toward  the  bird.  As  soon  as 
he  was  near  enough  to  be  heard  :  "Bird,"  said  he,  "thou 
art  a  creature  of  the  Lord  ;  and  I  respect  thee  as  a  pro- 
duction of  his  power.  If  thou  art  sent  to  the  assistance 
of  an  unfortunate  but  faithful  Mussulman,  abandoned  by 
his  brethren,  I  command  thee,  in  the  name  of  God  and  his 
prophet,  to  give  some  sign  by  which  I  may  know  that 
thou  art  sent  by  them." 

The  roc  immediately  extended  its  wings,  clapped  them 
three  times,  and  bowed  its  head  to  Habib.  The  young 
sultan  went  close  up  to  it,  and  perceived  a  damask  cushion 
suspended  between  its  feet  by  silken  cords;  he  caught 
hold  of  the  cords,  and  seated  himself  upon  the  cushion. 
No  sooner  was  he  thus  placed,  than  the  bird  arose  and  flew 
aloft  into  the  air. 

"  The  earth  which  seemed  to  flee  before  me,  now  recedes 
under  my  feet,"  said  Habib,  as  he  was  carried  upward 
among  the  clouds.  "Ye  frightful  piles  of  sand,  ye  are  no 
more  than  a  grain  of  dust  to  my  eyes!  Present  famine 
and  death  to  the  monsters  and  venomous  reptiles  which 
inhabit  you ;   you  can  do  nothing  against    the    slave  of 


4:{C  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

God,  the  servant  of  the  great  prophet ;  a  path  is  opened 
to  him  through  the  air.  Thou  bird,  who  art  the  messen- 
ger of  the  Most  High,  obey  the  orders  of  a  faithful  Mus- 
sulman. Bear  him  to  Mount  Caucasus,  where  the  arms 
of  the  sage  and  powei'ful  Solomon  are  deposited. 

The  obedient  roc  bore  young  Habib  to  the  mountain 
which  was  the  destined  term  of  his  journey.  His  senses 
were  confounded  by  the  rapidity  of  its  flight,  which  in- 
creased his  weakness.  II  Haboul  received  him,  and  bore 
him  to  a  place  where  an  agreeable  warmth  soon  revived 
him. 

When  with  the  return  of  his  strength  he  recovered  sense, 
his  lips  opened  with  expressions  of  gratitude.  "What!  is  it 
you,  my  dear  II  Haboul ;  you  have  not  forsaken  me  then  !" 

"  'She  orders  of  my  superiors,  O  valiant  sultan,  have 
brought  you  hither,"  replied  the  genie.  "A  bird  of  the 
great  Solomon's  has  borne  you  from  the  desert ;  I  am  ap- 
pointed to  receive  you;  you  will  easily  judge  how  pleasant 
I  find  the  task.  I  am  not  unacquainted  with  the  treachery 
to  which  you  have  been  exposed,  or  the  distress  which 
you  have  suffered  in  the  desert,  or  the  afflictions  of  Sala- 
mis,  your  fathei*.  I  am  the  keeper  of  the  treasures  of 
Solomon  which  are  deposited  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth 
and  without  his  orders  dare  not  remove ;  otherwise,  I 
would  have  come  to  your  assistance.  It  is  the  will  of 
Heaven  that  virtue  be  proved  by  trials ;  and  you  have 
undergone  a  very  severe  trial.  The  sufferings  of  Emir 
Salamis  and  Amirala  are  not  less  than  yours.  Crowns  of 
glory  await  you;  but  they  must  be  taken  by  violence. 
Such  is  the  lot  of  all  who  are  highly  favored  among  the 
sons  of  men." 

While  he  spoke  thus,  a  collation  was  set  upon  the  table 
consisting  of  such  meats  as  were  not  too  heavy  or  cloying 
to  a  stomach  of  which  the  powers  were  worn  out  by  long 
abstinence. 

Habib  proceeded  to  refresh  himself;  but  was  surprised 
at  the  same  time  to  find  such  plenty,  even  of  delicacies, 
amidst  the  most  dreary  desert  in  nature. 

"  This  is  the  abode  of  enchantment,"  said  II  HabouJ 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  431 

"  No  resource  can  be  wanting  to  the  great  Solomon.  To 
his  wisdom  all  nature  is  subject.  Before  he  went  to  take 
his  place  beside  our  great  prophet,  he  buried  his  treasures 
here,  to  hide  them  from  the  daring  avarice  of  men,  who 
seldom  find  enjoyment  except  in  the  abuse  of  what  Provi- 
dence bestows.  Here  are  the  arms  deposited  with  which 
he  combated  rebellious  men  and  spirits.  Illabousatrous, 
grandfather  to  Dorathil-goase,  I,  and  the  genii  of  the 
race  of  Eblis,  felt  our  inferiority  ere  it  was  too  late,  and 
submitted  without  resistance.  Others  were  less  wise  than 
we,  and  are  shut  up  in  dungeons  not  far  distant.  The 
formidable  Abarikaff,  with  whom  you  are  to  contend,  with 
a  number  of  others,  have  made  their  escape  by  flight,  by 
fraud,  and  even  by  force. 

"  Hitherto,  my  dear  Habib,  you  have  shown  unshrink- 
ing firmness,  and  displayed  your  strength  and  courage  in 
combating  wild  beasts.  Want  and  difficulties  have  not 
slackened  your  valor.  The  eye  that  watches  over  you  has 
assisted  you  when  you  could  do  nothing  for  yourself. 
When  the  roc  alighted  before  you,  you  had  yet  five  icy 
mountains  to  pass,  before  you  could  have  reached  the 
summit  of  Caucasus,  which  you  had  seen  at  two  hundred 
leagues  distance.  But  the  dangers  which  now  await  you 
are  of  a  different  sort.  It  is  not  by  the  exertion  of  strength 
they  are  to  be  opposed;  but  by  calm  fortitude ;  by  courage, 
which  no  tei*rors  can  move.  Thus  shall  you  penetrate  into 
the  treasury  of  the  great  Solomon,  and  bring  out  the  arms 
which  no  power  can  resist.  As  soon  as  your  body  shall 
be  reinvigorated  by  rest,  I  will  speak  to  you  concerning 
the  tasks  you  have  to  fulfil,  and  the  means  to  be  employed." 

After  this,  II  Haboul  made  his  pupil  enter  his  cavern, 
and  then  furnished  him  with  conveniences  for  rest  after 
his  fatigues.  Exhausted  as  Habib  was,  more  than  one  day 
was  necessary  to  restore  his  health,  and  fit  him  for  the 
enterprise  in  which  he  was  about  to  engage.  Had  it  not 
been  for  the  authority  which  the  genie  had  assumed  over 
him  from  his  infancy,  it  might  have  been  difficult  to  re- 
strain so  passionate  a  lover.  But  the  sage  II  Haboul 
nould  avail  himself  of  a  power  which  long  habit  hnrl    .on 


438  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

firmed  ;  and  he  accordingly  prevailed  with  his  pupil  to 
expose  himself  to  no  new  trials,  till  he  should  have  fulh 
recovered  his  strength.  In  the  meantime,  he  informed 
him  what  was  to  be  done  in  order  that  he  might  accom- 
plish the  purpose  of  his  journey  to  Mount  Caucasus. 

"My  dear  Habib,"  said  he,  "you  are  called  by  destiny 
to  be  the  avenger  of  Dorathil-goase,  and  to  punish  the 
rebellion  of  the  barbarous  Abarikaff.  The  dominions  of 
that  princess  lie  at  a  vast  distance.  Deserts  as  immense 
as  those  you  have  traversed,  divide  you  from  the  seas 
which  surround  the  seven  islands;  and  if  you  should  think 
of  going  by  sea,  the  road  to  the  shore  is  neither  short  nor 
open.  The  only  way  is  through  the  centre  of  the  earth. 
But  what  care  and  prudence  are  requisite,  that  you  may 
travel  successfully  by  this  line!  What  energy  of  mind 
must  you  possess,  my  dear  sultan,  if  you  can  undertake 
so  dangerous  a  journey !  If  forty  brazen  gates,  guarded 
by  malevolent  genii  endowed  with  extraordinary  strength 
and  courage,  shall  stop  you;  if  confusion  and  forgetfulness 
surprise  you  but  for  a  moment,  you  will  be  exposed  to  the 
greatest  of  all  misfortunes  ! 

"  You  must  pass  through  all  the  rooms  in  which  Solo- 
mon's treasures  are  deposited.  The  first  of  these  contains 
the  most  precious  of  all,  those  very  arms  with  which  he 
attained  that  high  degree  of  power  which  astonished  the 
world.  This  part  is  the  least  strictly  guarded,  and  the 
most  open  to  the  researches  of  men.  Happy  would  they 
be  if  they  could  content  themselves  with  penetrating  thus 
far,  and  acquiring  those  arms,  without  desiring  to  advance 
farther. 

"  Solomon  surpassed  all  the  men  on  the  earth  in  knowl- 
edge. He  fixed  its  principles  and  illustrations  by  three 
hundred  and  sixtj^-six  hieroglyphics,  each  of  which  re- 
quired a  day's  application  from  even  the  ablest  under- 
standing, before  its  mysterious  sense  could  be  understood. 
Would  you  take  time  to  penetrate  into  these  mysteries?" 
"  I  love  Dorathil-goase,"  said  Habib  ;  "  she  is  in  danger.  I 
must  have  the  arms  to  fight  with  Abarikaff.  I  shall  en- 
deavor to  acquire  this  knowledge  after  I  have  conquered 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  439 

him."  "It  is  possible  to  be  less  inexcusable  for  such  a 
failure  in  you  ;  but  since  Solomon  left  the  earth,  five  hun- 
dred knights  have  penetrated  into  these  desei^ts ;  all  have 
neglected  the  studies  which  I  propose  to  you,  and  gone 
in  search  of  the  treasures  deposited  in  the  cavities  of  this 
immense  subterraneous  recess.  They  would,  first  of  all, 
gratify  their  passions,  and  not  one  of  them  has  returned; 
they  have  all  failed  through  ignorance.  Let  us,  however, 
strive  to  save  you  from  the  same  disgrace. 

"I  will  conduct  you  to  the  first  gate;  at  your  feet  you 
will  see  a  golden  key ;  pick  it  up,  and  open  the  gate  ;  the 
bolt  of  the  lock  you  may  move  by  the  slightest  effort.  Be 
careful  to  shut  the  gate  behind  you,  so  gently  that  it  may 
not  make  the  least  noise. 

"  In  the  first  hall  you  will  find  a  black  slave  of  gigantic 
size.  Forty  keys  of  the  other  apartments  through  which 
you  are  to  pass,  are  suspended  by  a  chain  of  diamonds, 
which  hangs  from  his  left  hand.  At  sight  of  yon  he  will 
utter  a  tremendous  yell,  which  will  shake  the  vaults  of 
the  subterranean  rooms,  and  will  at  the  same  time  raise 
over  yoor  head  an  enormous  scimitar.  Preserve  your 
soul  unmoved  with  fear;  look  upon  his  sabre;  you  know 
I  have  taught  you  to  read  the  talismanic  characters.  Pro- 
nounce aloud  the  words  written  upon  the  blade ;  commit 
them  to  memory,  so  that  whatever  trials  and  dangers  you 
may  be  exposed  to,  they  may  never  be  effaced.  Your 
safety  depends  upon  them. 

"  The  slave  will  then  become  subject  to  you.  You  must 
disarm  him,  and  take  from  him  the  keys,  and  the  scim- 
itar of  the  great  Solomon;  but  you  will  look  in  vain  for 
the  talisman;  it  will  disappear  at  the  moment  you  pro- 
nounce the  words  of  which  it  consists.  You  will  then 
open  the  first  of  the  forty  doors,  and  shut  it  behind  you, 
with  the  same  precautions  as  before.  There  you  will  see 
the  arms  of  Solomon  ;  but  touch  not  his  casque,  his  cui- 
rass, nor  his  buckler.  You  have  his  scimitar,  and  it  is  not 
with  steel  you  are  to  arm  yourself.  Solomon  was  victo- 
rious through  courage,  vigor,  patience,  and  prudence. 
Four  statues,  engraved  with  hieroglyphics,  will   exhibh 


440  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

before  you  representations  of  these  four  virtues.  Reflect 
long  upon  those  emblems,  and  learn  to  decipher  their 
meaning.  These  are  arms  which  can  never  be  taken 
from  you.  Examine  carefully  the  arms  of  the  prophet, 
as  well  as  the  scimitar  of  the  slave.  The  knowledge  you 
may  acquire  from  them  will  enable  you  to  vanquish  all 
enemies  that  may  rise  up  against  you  ;  but  without  this, 
and  without  retaining  in  your  memory  the  characters 
engraven  on  the  sabre,  remember  that  you  have  in  your 
hands  nothing  but  a  piece  of  steel,  which  rust  and  the 
teeth  of  time  will  consume  away. 

"When  you  have  stayed  in  the  first  apartment  as  long 
as  you  think  proper,  you  may  then  with  a  bound  advance 
over  the  space  which  leads  to  the  second  hall.  Open  and 
shut  this  door  with  the  same  care  as  before.  The  sabre 
which  you  wear,  and  the  words  which  you  pronounce, 
will  make  you  master  of  the  slaves  which  guard  the  door, 
whoever  they  are.  I  shall  not  enter  into  a  particular 
detail  of  the  immense  riches  which  you  will  find  here. 
In  the  eyes  of  Solomon,  gold  and  jewels*were  things  of 
small  price,  although  he  employed  them  in  constructing 
works  the  memory  of  which  shall  last  forever;  yet  he 
restored  them  with  pleasure  to  the  bowels  of  the  earth, 
from  which  his  knowledge  had  enabled  him  to  extract 
them.  He  thought  them  not  necessary  to  the  happiness 
of  men. 

"  If,  in  passing  through  these  forty  halls,  you  meet  with 
any  one  object  whose  nature  you  cannot  comprehend,  rub 
the  blade  of  your  scimitar,  repeat  the  words,  which  you 
must  have  taken  care  to  remember,  and  you  will  thus  dis- 
cover the  sense  of  the  enigmas  presented  to  you. 

"  I  have  no  need,  O  virtuous  sultan,  to  warn  you  against 
avarice  or  indiscretion,  the  first  causes  of  the  loss  of  those 
knights  who  tried  this  perilous  adventure  before  you. 
You  have  learned  in  the  tents  of  Emir  Salamis,  in  what 
true  riches  and  real  power  consist.  Gold  gave  no  lustre 
to  his  pavilions,  nor  was  he  forced  first  to  gather  and  then 
to  scatter  it.  A  formidable  army  marched  when  he  gave 
the  signal.  A  wise  choice  of  things  useful,  and  contempt 
of  superfluities,  constituted  his  abundance. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  441 

'  Curiosity  is  also  a  fault  against  which  you  must  be  on 
your  guard.  Remember  that,  whatever  can  move  curi- 
osity, in  the  path  on  which  you  are  entering,  must  be 
extremely  dangerous  to  the  man  who  is  unacquainted 
with  fcLe  three  hundred  and  sixty-six  truths,  the  only 
principles  of  the  wisdom  of  Solomon. 

"Above  all,  when  you  have  opened  the  fortieth  door, 
within  which  your  subterraneous  journey  terminates,  be- 
wai'e  of  looking  curiously  at  what  you  shall  see.  A  veil 
of  silk,  and  golden  characters  in  relief,  shall  meet  your 
eyes.  Turn  from  them.  If  you  read,  it  is  your  death- 
warrant,  and  will  be  instantly  executed;  but  lift  up  the 
curtain,  and  you  will  be  struck  with  the  most  beautiful 
sight  that  can  be  beheld,  if  you  have  wisely  observed  all 
the  rules  of  prudence  which  I  have  taught  you.  You  will 
see  the  first  of  the  seven  seas,  which  you  must  pass  before 
you  can  join  Dorathil-goase,  and  you  will  find  everything 
ready  to  conduct  you  thither.  But  if  you  fail  in  a  single 
point  of  the  instructions  which  I  have  given  you,  you  will 
be  exposed  to  the  most  dreadful  dangers." 

"It  is,  perhaps,  unfortunate  for  me,"  replied  Habib, 
*'  that  I  am  a  stranger  to  fear,  and  if  it  be  so,  I  may  blame 
you,  and  Salamis,  and  Amirala.  You  taught  me  to  arm 
my  breast  against  every  sentiment  of  terror,  and,  per- 
haps, to  depend  with  too  much  confidence  on  ray  own 
strength.  But  I  shall  strive  to  practise  the  lessons  which 
you  taught  me." 

"March  on,  then,  valiant  hero,  under  the  eyes  of  the 
great  Solomon.  May  his  spirit  accompany  you.  I  form  the 
warmest  wishes  for  your  success,  and  in  it  shall  I  find  the 
recompense  for  the  pains  which  1  took  in  your  education." 

11  Ilaboul  deposited  in  his  cavern  the  skin  of  the  tigress, 
the  buckler,  and  the  poniard,  which  the  sultan  bore.  He 
dressed  him  in  a  light  and  simple  garb,  the  most  suitable 
for  the  enterprise  in  which  he  was  engaging.  The  genie 
then  took  him  by  the  hand,  and  led  him  throiigh  a  wind- 
ing alley  of  the  cavern  to  the  first  brazen  door  of  which 
they  perceived  the  key. 

"  Take  this  key,"  said  his  governor.     '■  Forget  not,  who.r 


442  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

you  shall  see  the  sabre  of  the  first  slave  raised  over  your 
head,  to  pronounce  aloud  the  talismanic  characters  in- 
scribed upon  its  blade.  Eead  them  with  such  care  that 
you  may  never  forget  them.  .Repeat  them  upon  every 
appearance  of  danger,  as  well  within  as  without  the  im- 
mense cavern  you  are  going  to  traverse.  Open  and  shut 
the  doors  with  the  greatest  caution ;  remember  that  in 
this  recess  all  is  symbolical,  and  that  j^our  actions  must 
correspond.  You  will  not  forget  my  other  advices ;  but  I 
have  insisted  more  particularly  upon  the  most  important 
Embrace  me,  my  dear  Habib!  I  return  whither  duty 
calls  me."  II  Haboul  then  retired.  Habib  opened  and 
shut  the  first  door  softl}r.  He  perceived  a  gigantic  black, 
who,  when  he  saw  him,  uttered  a  cry  which  resounded 
through  the  vaults  of  the  first  grotto.  The  monster  raised 
his  dreadful  scimitar.  Habib,  watchful,  cast  his  eyes  upon 
the  blade  and  pronounced  alone  the  word,  power,  which  he 
saw  written  upon  it  in  letters  of  gold.  The  slave  was  in- 
stantly disarmed.  The  scimitar  and  keys  fell  together 
from  his  hand,  and  he  bowed  down  before  his  conqueror. 

The  young  sultan  seized  the  redoubtable  weapon,  ad- 
vanced to  the  second  door,  and  it  opened  to  him.  Seven 
different  roads  appeared,  but  all  were  dark.  Uncertain 
which  to  choose,  he  pronounced  in  a  loud  voice  the  en- 
chanted word.  A  pale  and  glimmering  light  then  became 
visible  at  the  entrance,  upon  the  fourth  road.  He  pursued 
a  light  down  a  flight  of  fourteen  hundred  and  ninet}^  steps. 

He  came  then  to  the  third  door,  still  continuing  to  con- 
duct himself  with  the  same  prudence.  He  was  received  by 
two  monsters,  who  were  half-women,  who  brandished  two 
enormous  grappling  hooks  of  iron,  to  seize  him.  He  pro- 
nounced the  word  power;  the  iron  became  soft,  and  the 
monsters  fled. 

Habib  was  struck  with  a  ravishing  sight.  A  lustre  of 
carbuncles  illuminated  a  round  hall,  the  roof  of  which  was 
supported  by  coluipns  of  jasper.  The  armor  of  the  great 
Solomon  appeared  as  a  trophy  in  the  centre  ;  the  phoenix 
expanding  all  her  feathers,  crowned  the  casque.  The 
a-lance  of  the  cuirass  and  the  buckler  was  h-rip-hter  than 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  448 

.he  eye-e  of  man  couki  bear;  the  steel-pointed  lance  spar- 
kled like  fire.  There  was  no  scimitar  ;  but  Habib  with 
pleasure  observed  that  the  scimitar  he  held  in  his  hand 
corresponded  to  the  other  pieces  of  the  armor.  Mysteri- 
ous characters  were  engraven  upon  all  those  weapons;  of 
these  he  tried  to  discover  the  sense,  and  read  on  the  cui- 
rass :  "  Firmness  of  soul  is  the  best  cuirass  man  can  put  on." 

He  proceeded,  and  found  on  the  other  parts  of  the  armor. 
"Patience  is  his  buckler.  His  tongue  is  his  strongest 
lance.  Wisdom  must  be  his  casque.  Prudence  his  vizor. 
Without  valor,  his  arms  are  defenceless.  Without  con- 
stancy, his  legs  are  infirm." 

"  O  great  Solomon  !  "  cried  the  hero,  "  the  phoenix  still 
proudly  expands  its  feathers  on  the  ciest  of  your  helmet. 

"  Cover  yourselves  with  coats-of-mail,  ye  feeble  warriors 
of  the  earth  !  The  prophet  of  the  Almighty  marched  on 
to  victory  through  the  aid  of  virtue." 

Habib  next  contemplated  the  three  hundred  and  sixty- 
six  hieroglyphics  which  ornamented  the  walls  of  the  saloon. 
One  of -these  was  singularly  simple  in  its  nature,  yet  he 
could  not  comprehend  its  meaning.  Another  more  com- 
plicated immediately  discovered  its  mysterious  import. 
"  The  three  hundred  and  sixty-six  hieroglyphics  explain 
themselves,  yet  can  only  be  explained  one  by  one." 

"  Science,"  said  he,  "  thou  wast  made  for  my  heart ;  I 
feel  it ;  but  my  understanding  is  far  from  thee.  Who  shall 
give  me  the  eyes  of  the  lynx  to  penetrate  thy  nrysteries  ? 
The  lustre  with  which  thou  shinest  in  my  eyes  forces  me 
to  turn  them  downward. 

"Habib  !  march  on  to  thy  destiny  ;  a  crown  of  glory  is 
promised  thee.  Wisdom  descends  from  the  Heaven  of 
heavens;  desire  it  still  more  and  more,  and  proceed  on 
thy  career  under  the  propitious  influence  of  thy  star !" 

As  he  spoke  thus,  he  advanced  toward  the  door  by 
which  he  was  to  be  admitted  into  the  apartments  where 
Solomon's  riches  were  deposited.  Descending  by  new 
flights  of  steps,  and  by  winding  paths,  he  came  to  the  dif- 
ferent doors,  which  he  successively  opened  and  shut  with- 
out noise.     Wherever  he  advanced  he  met  with  monsters 


444  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

that  strove  to  terrify  him,  by  displaying  their  deformity 
and  by  their  cries  and  menaces.  Of*  one  the  head  resem- 
bled a  human  skull,  armed  with  horns,  and  terminating 
before  in  an  eagle's  bill.  In  another  the  three  forms  of  a 
tion,  a  tiger,  and  an  elephant  were  monstrously  blended 
together.  A  hydra  having  three  women's  heads,  with 
twisted  serpents  for  hair,  presented  itself  among  the  rest, 
to  terrify  our  hero. 

But  Habib,  armed  with  undaunted  courage,  and  faithful 
to  the  counsels  of  the  genie,  awed  with  a  word  these 
threatening  phantoms,  and  looked  with  indifference  upon 
the  heaps  of  gold  and  diamonds,  and  the  broken  idols 
which  lay  before  him.  He  passed  rapidly  from  one  door 
to  another,  where  tiie  objects  which  he  saw  exhibited  no 
sign  symbolical  of  the  prophet's  victories.  He  stopped, 
however,  at  one  place. 

It  was  an  immense  hall,  around  which  an  infinite  num- 
ber of  beings  in  the  human  form  were  seated.  They  ap- 
peared to  be  listening  to  the  most  venerable  person  in  the 
company,  who  was  seated  upon  an  elevated  seat,  before  a 
reading-desk,  and  read  aloud.  When  Habib  entered,  the 
whole  assembly  arose  and  bowed  to  the  hero.  The  reader 
paused  out  of  respect  to  him,  and  the  sultan,  addressing 
himself  to  that  venerable  person,  spoke  as  follows: 

"  If  you  are  at  liberty  to  inform  me,  tell  me  who  you  arc, 
and  what  it  is  you  are  reading?"  "  I  am  a  genie,  slave  to 
Solomon,"  said  the  reader;  "my  task  is  to  instruct  my 
brethren,  whom  you  see  here ;  they  will  be  set  at  liberty 
when  they  shall  have  acquired  all  the  knowledge  neces- 
sary for  the  direction  of  their  conduct.  The  book  I  read 
is  the  Alcoran.  Alas  !  I  have  explained  it  to  them  for 
these  several  centuries,  and  yet  there  are  still  an  eighth 
part  of  my  hearers  who  understand  not  even  the  first  line! 
Proceed,  young  Mussulman;  you  have  nothing  to  learn 
either  from  them  or  me;  follow  your  destiny,  and  continue 
to  be  as  circumspect  as  you  have  been." 

Habib  left  this  school,  reflecting  with  himself  how  dif- 
ficult it  is  to  understand  the  word  of  God  when  we  are 
not   disposed  to  listen  to  it.     He    blessed  G-od   and    his 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  445 

Prophet  that  he  had  been  instructed  in  his  earliest  years 
in  the  truths  of  the  Alcoran. 

The  young  sultan  had  now  opened  and  shut  nine-and 
thirty  doors.  He  had  been  five  days  in  passing  those  sub 
'terranean  recesses:  places  where  the  sun  comes  not  to 
indicate  the  lapse  of  time;  where  ages  after  ages  roll  on 
unperceived ;  places  inhabited  bjr  those  beneficent  spirits 
who  are  ever  actively  employed  in  promoting  the  happi- 
ness of  the  faithful,  and  are  not  subject  to  the  malignant 
power  of  their  neighbors. 

Habib  passed  not  into  the  dungeons  where  the  wicked 
genii  lived,  under  a  law  in  its  nature  and  tendency  di- 
rectly opposite.  Over  them  the  scythe  of  time  moves  with 
a  motion  which  cannot  be  calculated.  All  the  vices  of  the 
world  spring  up  and  thrive  in  their  perverse  souls ;  and 
they  are  subjected  to  the  tyranny  of  every  lawless  appe- 
tite and  passion. 

Our  hero  had  not  counted  the  number  of  the  doors 
through  which  he  had  passed.  Still  as  a  new  one  ob- 
structed his  progress,  its  key  sprung  from  the  bunch  in  his 
hand,  and  spontaneously  placed  itself  in  the  lock.  At  last 
he  stood  before  the  fortieth  door.  It  opened,  and  he  per- 
ceived the  fatal  silken  curtain  of  which  the  genie  had 
spoken.  He  hastily  drew  aside  the  curtain,  and  saw  the 
sea  upon  which  he  was  to  embark,  in  order  to  reach  the 
end  of  all  his  toils.  He  sprang  hastily  forward,  but  at  the 
same  instant  the  fortieth  gate,  which  he  had  forgotten  to 
shut,  fell  back  upon  its  hinges  with  a  dreadful  noise,  at 
which  Caucasus  trembled  to  its  foundation. 

All  the  doors  through  which  he  had  passed,  and  all 
those  of  the  dungeons  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  were 
overturned  and  broken,  with  a  noise  which  seemed  to 
shake  the  arch  of  heaven.  Legions  of  spirits,  in  the  most 
hideous  forms,  issued  forth  and  attacked  Habib.  The 
most  frightful  signs,  the  most  terrifying  alarms,  accom- 
panied, their  threats  and  gestures. 

Habib  turned  to  oppose  them.  Had  he  been  susceptible 
Df  fear,  he  must  have  been  terrified.  But  the  extraordi- 
nary  nafure  of  the  danger  rendered  him  firm  and  cool 

38 


446  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

He  recollected  the  formidable  word,  and  displaying  ai 
the  same  time  the  sword  of  Solomon,  pronounced  it  with 
a  firm  voice.  The  affrighted  crowd  instantly  retired  with 
precipitation ;  the  door  which  opened  to  the  sea  was  vio- 
lently shut ;  but  all  the  malevolent  genii  did  not  return' 
into  their  dark  abodes. 

Part  of  them  plunged  into  the  sea.  Its  waters  were 
raised  with  fury  from  the  deep  abyss;  the  billows  rose 
mountain-high  in  the  air ;  vast  masses  of  vapor  were 
spread  through  the  sky.  The  day  disappeared,  the  sun 
was  darkened  ;  thunders  began  to  roar  ;  the  accumulating 
clouds  struggled  against  the  raging  winds,  and  the  billows 
of  the  sea  dashing  against  one  another,  exhibited  a  black 
and  liquid  surface,  which  the  flashes  of  lightning  seemed 
to  tinge  with  blood. 

The  tempest  burst  from  all  quarters.  The  imprisoned 
winds  and  the  thunder  broke  through  the  passages  that 
were  opened  to  them.  The  sea  fled  before  them  to  its 
deep  abysses.  The  dashing  of  the  waves,  and  the  bluster- 
ing of  the  winds,  shook  the  very  foundation  of  the  rocks; 
while  the  blaze  of  the  lightning,  and  the  doubling  peals 
of  the  thunder,  seemed  to  threaten  this  part  of  the  globe 
with  the  return  of  the  primitive  confusion  of  chaos. 

This  tumult  and  confusion  of  the  elements  was  not 
wholly  natural.  II  Haboul,  the  guardian  of  the  prophet's 
armor  and  treasure,  had,  at  the  moment  that  the  rebel 
genii  made  their  escape,  left  his  usual  post  at  the  head  of 
the  genii  under  his  command;  and  the  earth,  the  sea,  and 
the  air  were  become  each  the  theatre  of  a  furious  and  des- 
perate combat. 

Habib,  struck  with  the  disorder  which  be  beheld  around 
him,  could  impute  the  cause  to  nothing  but  his  own  im- 
prudence. When  he  had  opened  the  fatal  curtain,  both 
heaven  and  earth  appeared  with  a  smiling  aspect,  and 
the  sea  was  calm.  He  prostrated  himself  with  his  face  to 
the  ground,  and  cried  : 

"  Where  is  he  who  thinks  himself  wise?  Let  him  look 
upon  me,  and  tremble  at  his  presumption.  Where  is  he 
who  a'ways  acts  prudently?     Let  him  come  hither  and 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  447 

confound  me.  My  eyes  have  had  a  glimpse  of  happiness, 
but  it  has  vanished  from  my  view.  I  had  the  key  of  my 
fate,  but  it  has  dropped  from  my  hands.  Dorathil-goase  ! 
your  lover  loves  you  with  a  passion  which  deprives  him 
of  reason.  He  is  unworthy  of  you.  In  ray  present  situ- 
ation how  shall  I  invoke  to  my  aid  the  powers  of  the 
earth  ?  If  I  should  seek  to  move  Heaven,  I  hear  a  voice 
crying  from  the  depths  of  my  soul:  Give  an  account  of  the 
benefits  which  Heaven  has  bestowed.  The  Arabians  of  our 
tribe  have  betrayed  me ;  but  can  I  reproach  them  when 
I  have  betrayed  myself?  Salamis,  II  Haboul,  Amirala, 
you  have  sown  on  an  unprofitable  soil.  How  shall  you 
reap  the  fruit  ?  I  shall  weep  like  the  timid  soul.  Confu- 
sion must  cover  my  eyes  when  I  have  laid  aside  the  band- 
age of  pride.  O  great  Prophet !  a  criminal  dares  not  lift 
up  his  voice  to  Heaven.  But  thou  didst  vouchsafe  thy 
favor  in  a  signal  manner  to  Habib  when  he  merited  nothing 
at  thy  hand  ;  but  now,  when  he  confesses  his  faults,  look 
down  in  mercy  and  forgive  him." 

Habib,  having  uttered  his  prayer,  arose  and  looked 
around  on  the  scene  where  he  now  found  himself.  He 
was  on  the  height  of  a  ledge  of  rocks,  the  foot  of  which 
was  violently  lashed  by  the  breaking  waves  of  the  ocean. 
The  mountain  was  precipitous  and  insulated  all  around, 
and  seemed  in  a  manner  detached  from  the  rest  of  the 
world.  He  proceeded  for  a  mile,  by  scrambling  and  leap- 
ing from  rock  to  rock;  the  light  of  the  sun  was  inter- 
cepted by  thick  clouds ;  the  flashes  of  lightning  which 
broke  from  these  gave  to  all  surrounding  objects  a  fiery  and 
cupreous  glare ;  an  infectious  saline  vapor  composed  tho 
atmosphere  in  which  he  breathed.  The  day  which  illumi- 
uated  these  terrifying  appearances  was  formed  to  augment 
the  horror  of  the  scene.  Habib  stood  and  contemplated 
for  some  time  the  disorder  which  the  warring  elements 
pi'esented  before  him.  Then  looking  on  his  scimitar,  he 
saw  the  talismanic  characters  shine  with  extraordinary 
lustre.  II  Haboul  had  formerly  taught  him  that  Provi- 
dence never  performed  a  miracle  unless  for  some  very 
ii  \povtant  ^ausc.     The  new  glare  of  the  talisman,  he  henca 


44X  ARABIAN    NiaHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

concluded,  must  be  intended  to  prompt  him  who  hor«-  it 
to  call  its  virtues  into  exertion,  in  order  to  still  the  raging 
elements.  He  therefore  drew  the  mysterious  blade,  and 
striking  the  air  thrice,  cried,  "Powers  of  fire,  of  earth,  of 
air,  of  the  waters !  I  command  you  to  return  to  your 
wonted  order,  otherwise  I  will  reduce  you  to  a  dull  in- 
action." 

That  instant  a  blaze  of  light  was  emitted  from  the 
scimitar,  before  which  all  other  lightning  was  pale ;  a 
confused  noise  was  heard  like  that  of  hills  of  sand  sinking 
down  one  upon  another.  The  sea  grew  calm.  The  tem- 
pest ceased.  Gentle  breezes  of  the  west  wind  succeeded  to 
the  boisterous  blasts  from  the  north ;  and  the  bright  star 
of  day  gilded  with  his  rays  the  stupendous  rock  on  whose 
summit  the  hero  stood. 

At  so  astonishing  a  change  upon  the  face  of  nature,  the 
sultan  could  not  avoid  feeling  a  degree  of  terror  with  his 
joy.  "What  power,"  cried  he,  "has  deigned  to  employ 
my  weak  hands,  guilty  as  I  am,  thus  to  still  the  rage  of 
nature-?  How  are  the  elements  subject  to  my  voice  ? 
Creator  of  the  world  !  thou  hast  not  turned  away  thy 
face  from  me.  Great  prophet !  Habib  is  still  in  thine 
eyes  a  son  of  the  tribe  of  Ben-Hilac." 

As  he  ceased  speaking,  with  his  face  prostrate  to  the 
earth,  he  heard  a  motion  near  his  side,  which  prompted 
him  to  raise  his  head;  and  II  Haboul  stood  before  him. 

"0  my  protector !  my  master!  you,  no  doubt,  are  the 
author  of  the  miracles  which  I  have  witnessed."  "No, 
my  dear  Habib,"  replied  the  genie,  "  they  are  wrought  by 
the  influence  of  the  great  Solomon,  whose  instrument  you 
b&ve  been.  You  know  not  what  disorders  your  negligence 
and  forgetfulness  of  my  counsels  have  produced.  The 
mischief  you  have  done  could  hardly  have  been  repaired 
without  your  exertions. 

"  Instead  of  shutting  the  fortieth  door  after  you,  you 
hurried  to  the  sea-shores.  The  gates  of  the  dungeons 
which  confined  the  rebel  spirits,  instantly  burst  open,  and 
the  prisoners  swarmed  forth.  You  yourself  would  have 
been  the  first  victim  of  their  rage,  had  you  not  emplDyed 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  449 

ihe  talisman  to  whose  name  they  were  once  subject.  Ter- 
rified at  the  sight  of  it,  they  ascended  into  the  air,  and 
raised  the  storm  which  you  have  witnessed. 

"  I  followed  them  at  the  head  of  the  spirits  under  my  com- 
mand. We  began  a  violent  combat,  the  effects  of  which  you 
also  witnessed,  without  understanding  them.  You  then 
employed  the  only  means  which  remained  in  your  power 
Their  success  was  certain  in  the  hands  of  a  faithful  Mus- 
sulman. The  arms  instantly  dropped  from  the  hands  of 
the  rebel  genii.  They  were  seized  with  a  sudden  stupor, 
and  sunk  down  like  so  many  lumps  of  dead  earth.  My 
warriors  fettered  them,  and  conveyed  them  back  to  their 
dungeons.  But  had  it  not  been  for  your  aid,  the  contest 
had  not  yet  been  terminated. 

"  I  will  not  reproach  you  for  an  act  of  imprudence  which 
sets  your  success  at  a  distance,  and  subjects  you  to  un- 
speakable toils  before  you  can  accomplish  it.  It  is  nc1"  so 
much  your  fault  as  love's,  and  your  passion  is  owing  to 
the  influence  of  your  star. 

•'Keeollect  the  knowledge  you  acquired  when  you  sur- 
veyed Ihe  treasures  of  the  great  Solomon.  You  will  find 
everywhere,  and  in  yourself,  arms  to  insure  the  success  of 
the  true  knight.  iJ^  knows  that  these  are  more  at  his 
command  in  adversity  oiian  in  happier  situations. 

u  The  advices  I  now  give  you  are  the  last  you  shall 
receive  from  me.  In  the  career  upon  which  you  are 
entered,  success  would  be  dishonorable  if  obtained  by 
trivial  means.  Only  from  Heaven  can  one  receive  at  all 
times  without  shame;  and  to  Heaven  may  one  always 
confidently  apply,  when  one's  views  are  wise  and  honor- 
able, and  when  insolent  triumph  is  not  the  object  sought. 
Adieu,  dear  Habib ;  I  leave  you  exposed  to  wants  of  all 
sorts,  and  ready  to  be  hurried  into  new  adventures  ;  but 
I  believe  your  courage  equal  to  all." 

II  Haboul  left  Habib  on  a  rock.  The  sea  had  receded, 
and  its  waves  no  longer  lashed  the  foot  of  the  rock  upon 
which  he  stood.  He  might  descend  from  one  rock  to 
another;  but  how  should  he  shelter  himself  through  the 
eight?  or  where  find  relief  from  the  cravings  of  thirst 
38*  2d 


450  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

and  hunger?  This  was  the  hero's  situation  when  hia 
guardian  genie  disappeared. 

A  soul  of  less  firmness  and  elevation  than  his  would 
here  have  been  abandoned  to  anxiety  and  despair.  But 
the  scimitar  of  Solomon  still  hung  by  his  side,  a  terror  to 
the  enemies  of  the  Most  High.  He  had  no  enemies  to 
dread  but  himself.  "  My  error,"  said  he,  "  had  laid  mo 
lo*/,  but  the  hand  of  God  raises  me  up  again.  Caucasus, 
boast  of  thy  stupendous  bulk,  or  of  the  hardness  of  the 
mass  of  which  thou  art  composed ;  God  willed  it,  and  I 
have  penetrated  through  thy  bowels.  Earth,  thou  ap- 
pearest  behind  me  as  a  lonely  wall ;  thou  seemest  to  be 
boundless,  and  offerest  only  a  dark  abyss  of  waters  to  my 
view.  But  Hope  emerges  above  thy  waters,  and  shows 
herself  through  the  vapors  which  cover  thee." 

And,  indeed,  Habib  at  this  time  saw  land  without  sus- 
pecting so  much  ;  it  was  the  nearest  point  of  the  White 
Isle,  which  formed  a  part  of  the  dominions  of  Dorathil- 
goase.  Night,  however,  came  on  ;  and  to  avoid  suffering 
from  its  cold,  he  lay  down  between  three  rocks,  which 
served  to  shelter  him  from  the  bleak  winds.  At  daybreak 
the  young  Mussulman  performed  his  ablutions  and  prayers. 
He  ran  over  the  adjoining  land  in  search  of  some  re- 
sources for  his  subsistence.  The  caverns  were  full  of 
shell-fish,  and  among  them  were  some  broken  remains 
of  roots  and  herbs  brought  hither  by  the  billows.  He 
with  these  satisfied  his  present  wants,  waiting  till  destiny 
should  call  him  to  act  in  a  more  important  scene. 

One  morning,  when  Habib  leaned  on  the  rock  nearest 
the  sea,  and  looked  out  to  see  if  any  vessels  were  ap- 
proaching, he  happened  to  fall  into  a  slight  slumber,  upon 
which  three  daughters  of  the  sea  suddenly  raised  their 
heads  above  the  water. 

"He  sleeps,  sister,"  said  one  of  the  nymphs  to  the  other 
two  ;  "let  us  approach  and  strive  to  learn  who  he  is.  You 
will  enjoy  a  pleasure  in  seeing  him;  he  is  as  beautiful  as 
the  rising  day.  Yesterday,  I  saw  him  stooping  over  the 
water  to  wash  j  his  cheeks  communicated  a  lovely  color  to 
the  water;  you  would  have  said  that  the  bottom  of  the  sea 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  451 

was  bespread  with  roses.  But  that  ,we  may  have  a  better 
view  of  him,  let  us  beware  of  making  a  noise  to  awake 
him.  Give  me  your  hand;  and  let  us  turn  round  till  he  be 
sound  asleep." 

When  the  daughters  of  the  sea  saw  that  their  enchant- 
ments had  taken  effect,  they  came  out  of  the  wa.ter.  On 
their  shoulders  they  displayed  their  fair  hair  bound  up  in 
tresses,  waving  gracefull}T  in  the  breeze.  Bobes  of  stuff, 
formed  of  sea-plants,  and  fine  as  gauze,  hung  down  from 
their  shoulders,  upon  their  loins ;  pearled  buskins  adorned 
their  legs;  on  their  arms  were  coral  bracelets;  their  whole 
appearance  was  in  the  highest  degree  lovely  and  capti- 
vating. They  all  three  surveyed  their  own  charms  in  the 
water,  and  being  pleased  with  their  dress  and  appearance, 
approached  and  stood  around  the  knight.  "  What  a  lovely 
young  man!"  said  the  eldest  of  the  three;  "can  he  be  a 
knight?"  "He  is  undoubtedly  so,"  said  the  youngest. 
"View  his  sabre,  but  touch  it  not;  for  I  put  my  hand  to 
the  hilt,  and  it  burnt  me." 

"  Ilzaide,"  said  the  eldest  to  her  youngest  sister,  "we 
must  know  who  he  is,  and  whence  he  comes.  He  may 
have  been  brought  here  in  a  storm.  However,  nothing 
about  him  bespeaks  of  his  having  been  shipwrecked. 
Bring  me  one  of  those  large  shells  on  the  beach,  and  fill  it 
with  water." 

Ilzaide  obeyed.  The  shell  was  brought.  The  elctest  of 
the  daughters  of  the  sea  then  gently  pulled  one  of  Habib's 
hairs.  "Here  is  a  hair,"  said  she,  "which  shall  tell  us  all 
the  secrets  of  the  head  on  which  it  grew."  She  then 
threw  it  into  the  water  in  the  shell,  and  walked  around 
the  shell  with  a  circular  movement.  "  Shake  the  watei 
well,"  said  she  to  her  sisters,  "  it  will  become  turbid,  and 
so  much  the  better  shall  I  see."  "Look  there,  sister," 
said  Ilzaide,  "  I  believe  the  hair  is  melted.  The  water  is 
now  covered  like  the  firmament;  the  star  appears  in  it, 
and  the  bottom  of  the  shell  is  no  more  to  be  seen."  "So 
much  the  better,"  returned  the  eldest ;  "  after  night,  comes 
the  day.  See,  here  is  a  country  covered  with  wood,  under 
th^  shade  of  which  are  flocks  feeding.     Stoop  down,  and 


452  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

you  will  see  the  whole  scene.  There  are  te  ts; — he  wai 
born  in  Arabia." 

"In  Arabia,  sisters?"  said  that  one  of  the  three  who 
had  not  yet  spoken.  "  Thence  does  our  queen,  D-arathil- 
goase,  expect  her  deliverer.  Happy  should  we  be  to  have 
the  hero.  here.  Soon  would  he  deliver  us  from  Eacachik 
and  all  his  race ;  but  the  water  says  nothing  of  him.  Shake 
it  again,  that  we  may  know  whence  he  has  come." 

"Ah!  sister,"  said  Ilzaide,  "it  becomes  black,  black!" 
"Good,"  returned  the  eldest,  "the  truth  will  come  out  so 
much  the  clearer.  Shake  it  with  a  brisker  motion." 
"  Sister,"  said  the  second,  "  see,  it  grows  white.  Oh  !  what 
a  sad  sight  it  exhibits."  "These  are  mountains,  sands, 
and  deserts,"  added  the  eldest.  "He  has  travelled  over 
all  these  alone,  for  he  appears  by  himself,  and  without  any 
companion.  He  must  be  strong  and  valiant,  then.  Shake, 
shake  the  water  again,  for  the  way  I  see  him  take  could 
not  bring  him  hither.  Oh  !  heavens,"  cried  she,  "  I  see 
the  bowels  of  the  earth.  Enough,  my  sisters.  This 
water  cannot  tell  us  the  secrets  of  his  heart,  but  I  know 
more  natural  means  by  which  we  may  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  them.  It  is  a  matter  of  the  greatest  con- 
cern to  us,  you  know,  to  be  acquainted  with  them.  We 
are  informed  that  we  are  to  be  delivered  from  our  evils, 
and  from  our  tyrants,  by  a  man  who  is  a  perfect  lover, 
and  yet  not  in  love  with  any  of  us."  "  Certainly,  a  knight. 
oe  he  \*no  he  may,"  replied  Ilzaide,  smartly,  "  cannoi  oe 
our  lover  without  having  ever  seen  us."  "  But  when  he 
opens  his  eyes,"  replied  the  eldest,  "  he  cannot  but  see  us. 
Take  you  care,  sister,  not  to  neet  his  eyes  with  yours. 
There  is  a  magic  in  them  of  greater  power  than  what  we 
have  in  ours;  and  were  he  to  fall  in  love  with  you,  we 
should  be  undone,  and  our  hopes  disappointed."  "  Ho 
will  fall  in  love  with  you,  sister,  rather  than  with  me," 
replied  Ilzaide.  "  May  Solomon  keep  him  from  falling  in 
love  with  any  of  us,"  added  the  eldest;  "yet  there  seems 
to  be  a  great  danger  of  it.  However,  as  we  must  gain 
his  good  graces  that  we  may  have  a  right  to  his  services, 
let  us  think  what  we  may  do  for  this  purpose. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  453 

u  In  the  first  place,  I  see  that  he  is  in  want  of  every 
convenience.  He  has  found  nothing  for  sustenance  but 
some  marine  plants  and  shell-fish,  which  he  has  eaten  raw. 
Let  us  prepare  for  him  against  he  awakes  such  a  repast 
as  these  places  can  afford.  You,  Ilzaide,  are  nimbler  than 
the  mountain  goat ;  go,  bring  some  of  its  milk  in  a  shell, 
which  you  may  cover,  above  and  below,  with  aromatic 
herbs.  In  the  cavities  of  the  mountain  you  will  find  fruits 
and  flowers.  Choose  what  appears  the  most  to  the  sight, 
taste,  and  smell.  My  sister  and  I  will  take  care  for  the 
rest,  and  we  shall  thus  offer  as  handsome  a  collation  as  can 
be  prepared  in  this  desert  place." 

Hardly  had  Ilzaide  gone  to  perform  her  task,  when  the 
eldest  sister  explained  her  intention  to  the  second.  "I 
know  of  branches  of  coral,"  said  she,  "  at  the  bottom  of 
the  sea,  two  of  which  would  load  a  camel.  Let  us  go  find 
some  of  them.  We  will  place  four  of  them  in  a  square, 
cover  it  with  stuff  like  what  we  wear,  and  thus  form  a 
pavilion;  then  gather  moss  and  dry  it  for  a  sofa;  form  a 
table  of  stones,  and  cover  it  with  a  tissue  which  has  never 
been  dyed.  We  will  then  provide  some  of  the  best  fish  the 
sea  affords ;  dry  and  roast  them  in  the  sun.  The  bird's-eggs 
which  I  shall  bring,  and  the  fruits  and  milk  with  which 
our  sister  will  furnish  us,  will  complete  the  feast.  When 
a  genie  is  out  of  his  element,  his  power  is  limited.  Here, 
industry  must  supply  the  defect  of  power.  Order  and 
taste  must  make  amends  for  the  want  of  variety.  Neces- 
sity will  confer  a  value  upon  anything.  Gratitude  will 
ascribe  even  to  the  slightest  favor  the  highest  conse- 
quence." 

Ilzaide  returned.  The  pavilion  was  set  up  and  orna- 
mented. The  table  was  covered.  All  that  now  remained 
was  to  suspend'  the  magic  influence  by  which  Habib's  sleep 
was  prolonged.  But  it  was  requisite  that  he  should  awake 
on  the  sofa  before  which  the  table  stood,  and  that* the 
three  sisters  should  be  seated  opposite  to  him. 

"Let  us  now  see,  sisters,"  said  the  eldest,  "  whether  this 
be  the  Arabian  knight  who  is  the  lover  of  Dorathil-goase. 
£  will  try  an  expedient  to  know,  the  success  of  which  can- 


454  ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 

not  fail.  Raise  up  your  hands,  and  move  them  while  1 
speak  :  '  By  the  great  prophet  Solomon,  knight,  I  awaken 
you  in  the  name  of  Dorathil-goase.  " 

"  Dorathil-goase  !  "  cried  Habib,  awaking  and  springing 
up.  He  then  looked  about  him,  and  remained  stupefied 
and  confounded:  three  beauties,  half  naked;  a  table,  plen- 
tifully covered  with  inviting  food,  fruits,  flowers ;  a  pavil- 
ion, where  all  was  coral  and  purple  ;  and  al-1  these  con- 
jured up  by  the  name  of  Dorathil-goase.  "  Dorathil-goase!" 
cried  he  again,  sitting  down  and  looking  about  him; 
"where  is  my  dear  Dorathil-goase?" 

"  She  is  not  here,  sir  knight,"  replied  the  eldest  of  the 
three  sisters,  "  but  you  are  within  sight  of  one  of  the  isles 
of  which  the  rebel  genii  have  deprived  her.  You  may  see 
it  over  this  arm  of  the  sea  —  yonder  bluish  vaj>or,  which 
terminates  your  horizon." 

"Are  you  attendants  of  hers?  "Whither  am  I  trans- 
ported? "  said  the  young  sultan,  greatly  moved. 

"In  our  hearts,"  replied  the  eldest  of  the  daughters  of 
the  sea,  "  we  are  still  her  subjects,  although  subjected,  in 
spite  of  us,  to  the  law  of  the  rebellious  Abarikaff,  and  to 
the  immediate  dominion  of  the  monstrous  Racachik." 

"Where  are  they  ?"  interrupted  Habib;  "  I  will  drive 
them  from  the  face  of  the  earth." 

"  Sir,"  answered  the  eldest  of  the  daughters  of  the  sea, 
"they  are  at  present  both  out  of  your  reach.  Abarikaff 
is  upon  the  Black  Isle;  and  you  have  six  seas  to  cross  be- 
fore you  can  meet  with  him.  Racachik  is  upon  the  White 
Isle,  which  you  see  there."  "  I  will  attack  him  instantly," 
said  Habib.  "  The  thing  is  possible,  but  you  must  employ 
new  expedients."  "  These  shall  be  easily  found  out,"  said 
the  hero.  "  I  am  here  amid  an  enchanted  scene,  for  which 
I  am  undoubtedly  indebted  to  the  goodness  of  II  Haboul 
or  of  Dorathil-goase  ;  but  where  am  I  ?" 

""On  the  same  rock  on  which  you  fell  asleep  yesterday  : 
we  have  endeavored  to  make  it  more  commodious  to  you." 

"I  thank  you,"  said  Habib;  "your  power  seems  to  be 
founded  upon  charms  of  more  than  one  sort.  But  if  you 
are  disposed  to  continue  your  goodness  to  me,  cannot  you, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  455 

by  a  very  small  exertion  of  magical  power,  transform  this 
pavilion  into  a  bark,  which  may  instantly  carry  me  to  the 
isle  in  which  the  enemy  of  Queen  Dorathil-goase  com 
mands?" 

"Sir  knight,"  replied  the  eldest  of  the  daughters  of  the 
sea,  "  although  we  be  three  sisters,  daughters  of  genii,  and 
genii  ourselves,  yet  here  are  neither  charms  nor  enchant- 
ments. This  pavilion  and  this  frugal  meal  are  prepared 
b}^  natural  means.  The  fatigues  you  have  undergone  since 
your  departure  from  Arabia  must  have  exhausted  yout 
strength  ;  eat  freely  and  cheerfully  of  these  dishes;  they 
were  dressed  for  you  by  friendly  hands.  You  will  not 
suspect  the  sincerity  of  our  inclination  to  serve  you,  when 
you  understand,  that  by  avenging  our  queen  of  the  tyrant 
Eacachik,  you  will  do  still  more  for  us  than  if  yoa  should 
restore  us  to  peace  and  rest.  But  I  can  say  no  more,  if 
you  refuse  to  taste  the  food  we  offer." 

Habib  suffered  himself  to  be  prevailed  upon;  and  tbe 
daughter  of  the  sea  continued  her  narrative  in  the  follow- 
ing words  : 

"Since  Abarikaff  has  made  good  his  attempt  b}^  kindling 
rebellion  through  all  the  provinces  of  Dorathil-goase's  do- 
minions, he  committed  the  government  of  the  White  Isle, 
the  frontier  of  his  territories,  to  Eacachik,  the  most  cruel 
and  infamous  of  the  genii  under  his  command. 

"  This  monster,  before  he  joined  the  standard  of  Abari- 
kaff, had  ranged  through  the  ocean,  under  the  form  of  an 
enormous  shark.  When  he  observed  a  vessel  under  sail, 
he  pursued  it,  and  by  his  poisonous  eye  fascinated  the 
sailors  and  passengers.  Hapless  were  they  who  chanced 
to  look  on  him  !  Their  heads  became  giddy,  they  dropped 
into  the  sea;  the  monster  dragged  them  under  water,  and 
made  them  his  prey.  Nor  was  his  hunger  satiable;  when 
strangers  were  not  to  be  found,  he  glutted  his  voracious 
maw  with  the  blood  of  the  queen's  subjects.  The  tyrant 
Abarikaff  authorized  him  to  do  so ;  for  both  had  made  a 
vow  to  exterminate  the  children  of  Adam. 

"As  for  ourselves,  he  cannot,  it  is  true,  deprive  us  of 
life;  but  we  are  subject  to  torments  more  cruel  than  death 


456  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

itself.  He  chooses  from  among  us  his  wives  and  his  slaves. 
These  he  changes  every  moon.  My  sister  and  myself,  at 
next  new  moon,  must  enter  into  a  great  salt-water  pond, 
which  serves  as  his  harem.  The  fatal  time  will  arrive  in 
three  days!  If  you  shall  attack  the  monster,  be  assured 
of  our  earnest  prayers  for  your  success ;  yet  can  we  not 
hide  from  you  the  dangers  you  must  encounter. 

"  For  his  convenience  while  he  is  on  land,  the  monster 
has  in  part  assumed  a  human  form,  reserving,  however, 
his  shark's  head,  armed  with  a  triple  row  of  teeth,  because 
he  found  that  so  well  suited  to  his  sanguinary  nature.  His 
gigantic  body  is  covered  with  enchanted  scales,  which  are 
his  armor.  The  shell  of  a  huge  tortoise  forms  his  shield ; 
and  he  wears  on  his  head  an  enormous  twisted  shell,  by 
way  of  helmet.  His  lance  is  the  horn  of  a  sword-fish, 
six  cubits  in  length.  He  mounts  on  the  back  of  a  sea- 
horse, and  thus  rushes  on  to  the  combat;  the  steed  min- 
gling his  horrible  cries  with  those  of  his  rider.  The  rib 
of  a  whale,  which  he  has  rendered  harder  and  sharper 
than  steel,  serves  him  for  a  scimitar.  His  arms  cannot  be 
resisted  by  human  force  ;  for  his  weapons  are  enchanted." 

"How,  madam!"  interrupted  Habib,  with  vivacity,  "can 
I  not  be  transported  in  less  than  three  days  to  the  isle  that 
is  ravaged  by  Eacachik  ?  Find  me  a  conveyance  to  the 
spot,  and  I  swear  by  the  holy  Prophet  that  I  shall  not 
rest  till  I  have  executed  the  vengeance  of  Heaven  on  this 
wicked  enemy  of  humanity!" 

While  Habib  uttered  this  oath,  his  eye  displayed  some- 
what more  than  human,  and  his  look  was  such  as  might 
have  inspired  a  whole  army  with  courage.  He  made  a 
few  steps  within  the  pavilion,  and  his  graceful  air  and 
majestic  carriage  still  heightened  the  noble  expression  of 
his  countenance. 

Ilzaide  concealed  herself  behind  her  eldest  sister. 
"There,"  said  she  in  a  whisper,  "there  is  a  hero  !  How 
charming  he  is !  I  never  saw  his  like  !  Oh,  sister,  how 
I  tremble  lest  I  should  love  him  !  "  "I  doubt,"  answered 
the  other,  "it  is  no  longer  time  to  fear  it !" 

"  Brave  knight,"  continued  she,  addressing  Habib,  "  we 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  451 

are  as  anxious  as  yourself  to  procure  you  the  means  of 
delivering  us  from  the  oppression  of  our  tyrant.  In  the 
defiles  of  this  mountain  there  is  a  marsh  which  produces 
reeds  of  an  extraordinary  strength  and  size.  We  will 
form  a  raft  of  those  materials  sufficient  to  bear  you 
through  the  calm  sea  to  the  White  Isle,  to  which  place 
we  ourselves  will  conduct  you.  In  the  meantime,  finish 
your  repast,  and  enjoy  repose  till  morning. —  Come,  sister," 
said  she  to  Ilzaide,  "let  us  set  about  making  the  raft!" 
"I  will  attend  you,"  resumed  Habib;  "I  am  surely  able 
enough  to  participate  in  your  labors." 

"My  sisters  and  I  are  sufficient,"  answered  the  eldest. 
"We  must  pass  for  a  great  way  under  water,  to  a  place 
where  it  would  be  impossible  for  you  to  follow  us.  AVe 
will  soon  return  ;  for  our  zeal  and  impatience  for  the 
accomplishment  of  your  vow  are  not  less  than  your  own  ; 
and  to-morrow,  by  daybreak,  we  shall  be  ready  to  set  out 
for  the  White  Isle."  The  three  sisters  took  their  leave 
of  him,  and  passing  with  vast  agility  over  the  rocks  came 
to  a  small  eminence  on  the  brink  of  the  sea.  There,  while 
they  bound  up  their  tresses  and  prepared  to  plunge  into 
the  water,  the  younger  sister  asked  her  companions,  "How 
can  we  leave  him  alone?  he  will  soon  weary  in  such  soli- 
tude." "  I  dare  say,  sister,"  answered  the  eldest,  "  you 
would  willingly  keep  him  company,  and  while  we  pre- 
pared the  raft,  you  would  take  care  to  render  our  labors 
vain.  My  dear  sister,  you  are  no  stranger  to  the  dangers 
of  the  ocean  ;  but  you  are  not  yet  acquainted  with  all  its 
shoals  and  quicksands !  Let  us  go  where  our  duty  calls 
us."  They  all  threw  themselves  into  the  sea,  and  dis- 
appeared. 

In  the  meantime  Habib,  having  made  an  end  of  his 
repast,  and  seeing  night  approach,  performed  his  ablution, 
and  said  his  prayer;  after  which  he  enjoyed  an  easy  sleep, 
waiting  the  return  of  the  daughters  of  the  sea. 

When  the  first  rays  of  the  sun  struck  his  eyelids,  Ha- 
bib awaked  ;  he  looked  anxiously  toward  the  White  Isle 
and  with  his   eye  measured  ,the  distance.     He  suddenly 
perceived  a  remarkable  commotion  in  the  water,  though 
39 


458  ARABIAN    NIGIITS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

the  sea  was  scarcely  ruffled  by  the  gentle  breeze.  Hw 
observed  an  object  advance  with  rapidity  toward  the  place 
where  he  stood,  and  saw  several  heads  above  the  water 
who  called  to  him,  "  Come,  brave  knight,  come  on  board 
this  raft !"  He  knew  the  voices  of  the  three  sisters,  and 
sprang  upon  the  slender  craft,  which,  however,  bore  him 
on  the  surface  of  the  waves. 

Eight  dolphins  were  yoked  to  the  raft.  The  eldest  sis- 
ter, with  half  of  her  body  above  water,  supported  the 
stern  with  both  her  hands,  and  served  as  a  rudder  to  the 
vessel.  The  two  younger  sisters  swam,  one  on  each  side, 
keeping  it  in  equilibrium  with  one  hand.  Habib,  having 
his  mind  full  of  the  enterprise  in  which  he  was  engaged, 
was  seated  on  the  raft. 

They  soon  discovered  the  shore  of  the  White  Isle  and 
the  palace  of  the  tyrant,  which  was  built  of  shells  and 
corals,  on  a  promontory  projecting  into  the  sea.  When 
the  sentinels  perceived  the  warrior  approaching,  they 
gave  the  alarm,  and  announced  the  news  to  Racachik. 
The  monster  regarded  him  as  a  fresh  prey  ready  to  fall 
into  his  hands. 

"Let  him  come  on,"  said  he;  "ask  him  what  he  wants. 
He  shall  soon  know  to  his  cost  that  no  stranger  can  set 
foot  on  this  isle  till  he  has  tried  my  strength  and  courage; 
but  I  must  arm  myself  to  give  him  a  suitable  reception." 

In  the  meantime  the  raft  approached  the  land,  and 
Habib  leaped  ashore.  One  of  the  sentinels,  who  was  an 
amphibious  monster,  came  up  to  interrogate  him,  as  Raca- 
chik had  commanded.  "  G-o  tell  thy  master,"  said  Ha- 
bib, "  that  I  am  come  to  challenge  him  to  single  combat." 
"  You  are  not  armed,"  said  the  monster,  "  nor  have  you  a 
horse."  "Know,"  said  the  young  sultan,  "that  my  turban 
is  my  casque,  and  my  scimitar  is  instead  of  a  helmet  and 
a  buckler.  I  need  no  horse;  let  thy  master  come  on!  I 
here  defy  him  and  all  his  powers." 

No  sooner  was  this  message  delivered  than  the  furious 
Racachik,  clad  in  his  strong  mail  of  shells,  and  mounted 
on  a  hideous  sea-horse,  whose  clumsy  gallop  raised  about 
him  a  cloud  of  dust,  advanced  toward  the  shore  to  attack 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  45S 

ihe  hero.  "  Despicable  son  of  Adam  !  vile  slave  i)f  Mo- 
hammed !  thou  art  proud  forsooth  that  thou  dcet  not 
creep  on  the  earth  like  other  reptiles,  but  canst  raise  thy 
head  three  cubits  above  the  clay  from  which  thou  art 
sprung.  Darest  thou  insult  the  genie  Eacachik'  take 
then  the  reward  of  thy  temerity."  AVhile  he  pronounced 
these  words,  he  pushed  on  his  horse  against  Habib,  and 
aimed  a  thrust  at  him  with  his  enormous  lance.  The 
young  hero  opposed  his  scimitar,  and  the  lance  of  his 
adversary  was  shivered  in  pieces  before  the  stroke  reached 
him.  The  shock,  however,  stunned  the  arm  of  the  tyrant. 
His  horse  became  restive,  reared  on  his  hinder  legs,  and 
fell  backward  on  his  rider.  Eacachik  saw  his  danger,  and 
called  to  his  assistance  all  the  monsters  subjected  to  his 
power.  In  a  moment  the  ocean  was  agitated,  and  poured 
forth  a  legion  of  sea-lions,  hippopotami,  and  sea-calves; 
whales  approached  the  shore  and  spouted  up  a  torrent  of 
water,  which  seemed  to  form  a  barrier  between  the  young 
prince  and  his  enemy.  The  shore  resounded  with  horrible 
shrieks;  for  the  whole  army. of  monsters  united  in  their 
efforts  against  the  hero.  He  for  some  time  kept  them  at 
bay  with  his  scimitar;  but  fearing  lest  he  should  be  over- 
whelmed by  numbers,  he  waved  the  sacred  weapon  thrice 
in  the  air,  pronouncing  the  formidable  word  power.  The 
effect  was  instantaneous;  the  monsters  that  had  escaped 
the  edge  of  the  sword,,  constrained  by  a  superior  force, 
plunged  into  the  abyss  from  which  they  had  issued.  Ea- 
cachik again  attempted  to  renew  the  fight;  he  dared  to 
encounter  the  weapon  of  Solomon  with  his  monstrous 
Bcirxitar  formed  from  the  rib  of  a  whale;  but  in  a  moment 
it  was  broken  into  a  thousand  pieces.  His  scaly  armor 
and  enchanted  weapons  fell  into  dust !  "  Go,  wretch," 
cried  Habib,  "go,  lament  thy  crimes  eternally  in  the 
caverns  of  Caucasus ! "  In  an  instant  the  shore  was 
cleared  of  every  vestige  of  the  monsters,  and  no  trace  of 
Eacachik's  enchantments  remained. 

A  dismal  silence  succeeded  to  this  scene  of  horror  and 
tumult.  The  victorious  Habib,  grateful  for  his  destiny, 
fell  prostrate,  and  adored  the  being  to  whom  he  owed  his 


460  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

success  :  "  Great  power,"  cried  he,  "  whom  none  can  re- 
sist,  thy  breath  hath  dispersed  thine  enemies  like  chaff, 
and  left  not  a  wreck  behind  !  The  fire  that  consumes 
the  stubble  leaves  the  field  covered  with  ashes;  thy  foes 
are  consumed,  but  no  mark  of  them  remains.  The  slender 
reed  in  the  hand  of  thy  servant,  O  God,  is  more  powerful 
than  the  sturdy  oak  in  the  grasp  of  the  wicked.  I  am 
like  an  arrow  in  the  bow  of  Mohammed  and  of  Solomon. 
I  have  been  sent  against  this  accursed  race,  and  they  aro 
destroyed." 

Habib  arose  with  an  humble  sense  of  the  kindness  of 
Heaven,  and  did  not  at  first  perceive  the  snare  that  was 
spread  for  his  virtue.  The  whole  shore  was  covered  with 
the  beautiful  daughtei's  of  the  sea,  adorned  with  crowns 
and  garlands  of  marine  flowers.  They  had  assembled  to 
express  their  grateful  thanks  to  their  deliverer,  and  to  lay 
at  his  feet  all  the  riches  of  their  element.  The  harmoni- 
ous concert  of  their  voices,  and  their  graceful  address, 
while  they  did  homage  to  the  hero,  might  have  moved  the 
most  savage  heart.  The  young  Ilzaide  and  her  sisters 
were  more  earnest  in  testifying  their  gratitude  than  the 
rest.  But  the  modesty  of  Habib  would  not  permit  him  to 
accept  the  praises  they  lavished  on  him.  "  I  have  done 
nothing  for  you,"  cried  he,  "  I  have  only  fulfilled  my  duty 
and  deserve  not  such  acknowledgments.  Where  are  the 
mosques  ?  Let  us  go  to  the  temple,  where  we  may  give 
thanks  to  God.  I  will  lead  the  way.  If  there  be  any 
faithful  subject  of  your  queen  Dorathil-goase  in  this  place, 
let  him  stand  forth,  that  I  may  put  these,  your  gifts,  into 
his  hand ;  for  I  can  only  accept  them  in  her  name." 

A  genie,  in  his  natural  form,  immediately  presented 
himself.  He  was  bent  under  a  load  of  years ;  his  wings 
were  shattered,  and  his  body  galled  by  the  chains  with 
which  the  tyrant  had  loaded  him.    His  name  was  Baiazan. 

"  Sir,"  said  the  genie,  "  when  our  good  queen,  Camaril- 
zaman,  reigned,  we  had  three  mosques  on  this  island,  but 
Racachik  profaned  and  demolished  them.  That  heap  of 
rubbish  you  see  before  us  is  the  ruins  of  a  city  which 
he    sacked.  <ind   of  which    he    devoured  the  inhabitants. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  4(>1 

The  isle  has  remained  without  culture  and  without  com- 
merce. Illabousatrous  bestowed  on  me  the  government 
of  this  place  ;  but  Bacachik,  on  his  arrival,  threw  me  into 
a  dungeon,  from  which  I  have  been  liberated  by  your 
victory.  I  come  to  do  homage  to  the  messenger  of 
Solomon,  who  displays  on  this  coast  the  sword  of  the 
prophet,  and  to  offer  my  services  to  him  who  is  the  deliv- 
erer of  the  children  of  God,  and  the  avenger  of  Dorathil 
goase."  "  Well,"  answered  Habib  ;  "  Balazan,  in  the  name 
of  the  great  prophet,  and  Dorathil-goase,  whose  knight  I 
am,  I  restore  to  thee  all  the  powers  with  which  thou  wert 
formerly  invested.  Take  these  treasures  which  lie  at  my 
feet ;  cause  the  mosques  to  be  rebuilt,  and  let  the  muezzin 
proclaim  from  the  lofty  turrets,  that  all  the  queen's  faith- 
ful subjects,  wherever  they  are  dispersed,  may  repair 
thither  without  fear.  Govern  here  in  the  name  of  Mo- 
hammed, of  the  great  Solomon,  and  of  your  queen.  Ee- 
establish  good  order,  and  procure  me  the  means  of  trans- 
porting myself  to  Medinaz-il-ballor." 

"Noble  and  valiant  knight!"  returned  Balazan,  "I 
accept  with  confidence  the  authority  you  have  bestowed 
on  me,  and  I  submit  to  the  decrees  of  Heaven.  But,  sir, 
it  is  impossible  to  assist  you  in  going  where  your  destiny 
calls  you.  This  isle  is  deprived  of  every  means  of  naviga- 
tion ;  and  the  path  through  the  air  is  equally  impracticable; 
for  my  wings  are  disabled,  as  you  see  ;  but  though  that 
were  not  the  case,  Abarikaff  has  so  guarded  the  passes 
that  all  my  efforts  to  break  his  enchantments  would  prove 
in  vain.  You  must  pursue  your  journey  from  one  isle  to 
another  by  the  same  means  you  employed  in  coming 
hither.  Avail  yourself  of  the  enthusiasm  with  which  your 
perscu  and  valor  have  inspired  the  genii  of  the  sea;  and 
they  may,  perhaps,  be  able  to  conduct  you  to  the  chief 
seat  of  our  enemy's  power.  The  event  will  depend  on 
your  own  courage  and  the  decrees  of  fate.  Already  has 
the  terror  of  your  arms  spread  to  the  Yellow  and  Eed 
Isles.  Mokilras,  the  tiger  of  the  sea,  tyrannizes  over  both. 
He  is  the  son  of  the  monster  from  whom  you  have  just 
delivered  us.  Informed  of  his  father's  overthrow,  he  is  at 
39* 


462  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

this  moment  using  every  precaution  his  fears  can  suggest 
You  will  have  many  difficulties  to  encounter,  but  if  you 
shall  prevail  against  him,  you  need  only  erect  on  your 
standard  the  skin  of  the  monster,  and  the  Bed  Island  will 
at  once  submit." 

Habib  then  addressed  the  eldest  of  the  three  sisters: 
"  If  I  could  find  here  a  fisher's  boat,  or  a  small  skiff,"  said 
he,  "  I  would  embark  in  it  for  the  Yellow  Isle  ;  but  as  I 
may  be  unable  to  obtain  such  assistance,  will  the  genii  of 
your  element  refuse  me  their  aid  ?"  "If  fear  should  hin- 
der them  from  engaging  in  the  noble  enterprise,"  answered 
she,  "if  tbey  are  ignorant  of  the  degree  of  confidence  due 
to  a  knight  of  your  merit,  my  sisters  and  I  will  show  them 
their  duty.  Our  dolphins  can  at  least  conduct  the  raft 
within  a  league  of  the  shore;  but  it  would  be  dangerous 
for  them  to  proceed  farther,  on  account  of  the  precautions 
taken  by  Mokilras."  "A  league  is  but  a  short  way  to 
swim,"  said  Habib,  "in  the  eyes  of  a  man  who  is  deter- 
mined, at  all  hazards,  to  do  his  duty." 

"  O  generous  knight,"  resumed  the  daughter  of  the  sea; 
"  who  could  refuse  to  follow  you,  were  it  only  to  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you,  and  hearing  your  discourse  ?  but 
are  you  not  afraid  that  you  may  at  last  fall  a  prey  to  these 
terrible  sea-monsters?"  "I  know  no  fear,  madam,  but 
that  of  failing  to  second  the  decrees  of  destiny,  or  falling 
short  of  my  duty  to  your  queen  \"  "  Valiant  prince,  you 
may  rely  on  our  fidelity  ;  my  sisters  and  I  will  reserve  to 
ourselves  the  honor  of  serving  you." 

At  that  moment  the  raft  was  afloat,  and  bore  them 
through  the  waters  with  immense  velocity.  They  were 
now  able  to  distinguish  the  commotion  that  their  ap- 
proach had  occasioned  in  the  Yellow  Isle.  It  was  at  the 
distance  of  about  a  league,  and  the  dolphins,  actuated  by 
instinct,  suddenly  stopped,  and  endeavored  to  break  the 
harness  by  which  they  were  yoked  to  the  raft.  One  of 
the  sisters  advanced  and  set  them  at' liberty,  while  the 
raft  remained  motionless  on  the  surface  of  the  water.  A 
wave  was  at  that  mcment  raised  by  the  sea-monsters, 
which  approached  the  raft,  and  seemed    ready  to   over 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  463 

waeba  it.  Habib  saw  that- no  time  was  to  be  lost  in  sav- 
ing his  amiable  companions  from  the  danger  that  threat- 
ened them.  He  took  his  scimitar  in  his  hand  and  plunged 
into  the  sea,  pronouncing  aloud  the  sacred  word  inscribed 
on  the  talisman. 

The  waters  seemed  to  arrange  themselves  to  afford  him 
a  passage;  the  billows  subsided,  and  the  sea  became 
smooth.  At  last  the  hero  arrived  at  a  shallow  sand-bank, 
on  which  he  proceeded  to  the  shore  without  interruption. 

He  saw  his  enemies  dispersed  in  small  parties,  who 
seemed  ready  to  betake  themselves  to  flight  at  his  ap- 
proach. He  advanced  toward  those  that  appeared  most 
formidable,  flew  on  them  with  the  rapidity  of  lightning, 
and  whoever  ventured  to  oppose  him  instantly  sunk  under 
the  dreadful  strokes  of  his  scimitar. 

Mokilras,  the  enormous  tiger,  came  up,  walking  on  his 
hinder  feet,  and  aimed  a  blow  at  the  hero  with  a  mon- 
strous club;  but  instantly  resuming  his  own  nature,  ran 
off  on  four  feet.  Habib  pursued  him;  but  human  strength 
and  agility  were  insufficient  to  the  contest;  he  therefore 
pronounced  the  sacred  word,  adding,  "  Mokilras !  I  arrest 
thee  in  the  name  of  Solomon!"  The  monster  remained  im- 
movable. One  stroke  of  the  scimitar  severed  his  head 
from  his  body,  and  his  skin  was  immediately  stripped  off. 

As  soon  as  the  tyrant  of  the  Yellow  Isle  was  dispatched, 
the  elements  returned  to  their  natural  order,  and  a  calm 
succeeded  to  the  dreadful  storms  by  which  they  had  been 
agitated. 

When  the  three  daughters  of  the  sea  were  again  assem- 
bled about  the  raft,  the  young  Ilzaide  raised  herself  upon 
it,  and  with  a  long  marine  trumpet  called  together  the 
affrighted  dolphins,  and  they  were  obedient  to  her  voice. 
Innumerable  inhabitants  of  the  ocean  crowded  about  the 
place,  who  united  their  voices  in  joyfully  singing  the  vic- 
tories of  the  hero,  and  thus  approached  the  shore  at  the 
moment  of  his  triumph  over  Mokilras. 

Habib  returned  to  the  raft,  but  refused  to  accept  the 
homage,  or  rather  adoration,  that  was  offered  to  him. 
"  Creatures  (  f  G-od,"  said  he,  "  worship  your  Creator ;  lift 


464  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

your  oyes  to  Heaven,  and  thank  the  Almighty  for  youi 
deliverance.  It  is  to  him  alone,  your  gratitude  is  due. 
Subjects  of  Dorathil-goase,"  cried  he,  "  reserve  those  ex 
pressions  of  submission  and  respect  for  your  queen;  her 
knight  will  join  you  in  doing  her  homage,  and  in  offering 
up  prayers  for  her  prosperity." 

When  he  bad  finished  his  speech,  a  multitude  of  people 
assembled  about  him  from  all  quarters,  wbose  presence  at 
once  increased  his  triumpb  and  his  embarrassment.  Every 
one  seemed  more  forward  than  another  to  swear  alle- 
giance to  him,  and  to  demand  a  renewal  of  the  laws.  Hap- 
pily the  old  genie  Balazan  came  to  his  relief. 

As  soon  as  all  the  inbabitants  of  tbe  White  Isle  had 
submitted  to  tbe  authority  of  that  genie,  he  made  a  vig- 
orous effort  to  rise  into  tbe  air,  that  be  might  follow  the 
successful  hero  to  whom  he  owed  his  deliverance;  and 
after  a  hard  struggle,  he  now  joined  the  young  Habib  in 
the  Yellow  Island,  at  the  moment  when  the  inhabitants 
of  that  country  were  doing  him  homage. 

"Subjects  of  Dorathil-goase,"  cried  the  old  genie,  "this 
gallant  knight  accepts  your  testimonies  of  gratitude.  Ee- 
turn  to  your  possessions,  and  enjoy  them,  while  you  live 
under  the  laws  of  our  sovereign.  And  you,  valiant 
knight,"  addressing  himself  to  Habib,  "  you  may  now  take 
a  little  repose.  The  conquest  of  the  Eed  Isle  is  not  an 
enterprise  worth  your  while.  I  will  go  alone  on  the  raft, 
and  bear  with  me  the  skin  and  the  arms  of  Mokilras.  At 
the  sight  of  that  terrible  trophy  the  rebels  will,  of  their 
own  accord,  submit  their  necks  to  our  chains.  Reserve 
your  strength  for  the  conquest  of  the  Green  and  Blue 
Islands,  and,  above  all,  that  of  the  Black  Isle." 

Habib  despised  a  victory  that  might  be  obtained  with- 
out danger  ;  he.  therefore,  committed  the  conduct  of  the 
enterprise  to  Balazan,  and  took  repose,  that  he  might  be 
invigorated  for  his  future  labor. 

The  hero  was  still  asleep  when  Balazan  returned  from 
the  Red  Isle,  carrying  in  his  hands  two  bags  formed  of 
goat-skin.  "These,"  he  cried,  while  he  awakened  Habib, 
"these,  my  brave  knight,  are  all  the  remains  of  nur  dan 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTA   NMENTS.  465 

gerous  enemies  to  be  found  in  the  country  which  I  have 
just  now  restored  to  the  dominions  of  our  queen.  I  have 
enclosed  them  in  these  bags  that  I  may  forthwith  send 
them  to  the  caverns  of  Mount  Caucasus.  To-morrow  you 
may  proceed  without  obstruction  to  the  Red  Isle,  and  then 
consult  the  means  of  pursuing  your  victories;  but  it  is 
impossible  to  foresee  all  the  dangers  you  must  encounter 
The  tyrant  Nisabic  governs  the  Green  and  Blue  Isles ; 
the  enchantments  of  this  genie  are  almost  as  powerful  as 
those  of  Abarikaff  himself.  It  is  impossible  to  inform  you 
of  the  various  means  he  may  use  to  repel  your  attacks; 
your  own  prudence  and  ingenuity  must  direct  you  in 
avoiding  such  dangers  as  are  visible,  and  in  guarding 
against  the  secret  snares  that  may  be  laid  for  you.  We, 
alas!  could  do  nothing;  but  what  power  can  oppose  the 
gallant  knight  of  Dorathil-goase  ? " 

Opposition  and  difficulty  only  served  to  inflame  the 
courage  of  the  Arabian  prince.  At  the  earliest  dawn  he 
set  out  with  the  raft,  and  the  dolphins  conducted  him  to 
the  Red  Isle.  He  went  round  the  point  of  the  island  that 
he  might  be  ready  to  depart  for  the  Green  Isle,  which  he 
determined  to  attack  the  next  day. 

The  daughters  of  the  sea  never  quitted  their  deliverer, 
but  obligingly  served  him  in  whatever  he  wanted.  He 
now  called  to  mind  the  sage  counsels  of  II  Haboul :  "I  am 
less  afraid  of  the  open  force,"  would  he  say,  "  than  of  the 
secret  machinations  of  your  enemies."  The  young  prince, 
therefore,  determined  to  be  on  his  guard  against  those  of 
the  genii  with  whom  he  was  bound  to  contend.  He  fell 
asleep,  confiding  in  the  goodness  of  Providence,  and  arose 
next  morning  with  a  heart  glowing  with  courage  and  hope. 

The  hero  was  proceeding  on  his  voyage  with  tranquil- 
lity, when  all  at  once  the  three  sisters  uttered  a  dreadful 
shriek,  and  the  head  and  hands  of  Ilzaide,  who  swam  by 
the  side  of  the  raft,  suddenly  disappeared.  Ha  bib  in- 
stantly threw  himself  into  the  sea,  with  his  scimitar  in 
his  hand.  He  found  himself  entangled  in  the  meshes  of 
a  net ;  he  pronounced  the  terrible  word,  and  employed  the 
edge  of  his  weapon.     The  net  was  cut  to  pieces.     He  laid 


406  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Lold  of  Ilzaide,  placed  her  on  the  raft,  and  flew  tc  the 
assistance  of  her  sisters.  When  he  had  placed  them  in 
safety,  he  perceived  the  raft  was  agitated  without  moving 
forward,  and  that  this  was  occasioned  by  the  dolphins 
being  entangled  in  the  same  sort  of  netting.  He  disen- 
gaged them ;  and  that  he  might  open  a  passage,  he 
mounted  on  the  foremost  dolphin,  and  proceeded  toward 
the  shore,  striking  on  the  right  hand  and  the  left  with  his 
scimitar,  which  cut  the  enchanted  net  that  had  been 
spread  to  oppose  his  course. 

From  the  summit  of  the  highest  tower  in  his  castle  of 
steel,  the  tyrant  beheld  an  object  approaching  toward  the 
shore.  He  saw  its  progress  through  the  magical  netting 
he  had  spread  in  the  water,  but  he  perceived  not  the 
Arabian  knight.  He,  however,  discovered  three  female 
figures,  half  naked,  seated  on  the  raft,  which  advanced 
with  great  rapidity.  He  knew  not  what  species  of  dan- 
ger he  had  to  apprehend.  None  could  be  so  weak  as  to 
imagine  that  his  heart  might  be  assailed  by  female  charms; 
and  the  precautions  he  had  taken  were,  in  his  opinion,  suf- 
ficient to  guard  him  against  the  power  of  enchantments. 
His  palace  was  constructed  of  solid  steel ;  and  it  was  only 
accessible  by  a  vaulted  passage  in  the  rock,  armed  with 
iron  pikes ;  the  whole  vault  being  supported  by  one  key- 
stone,  which  was  retained  in  its  place  only  by  a  slender 
thread.  This  defence  was,  he  thought,  proof  against  all 
the  arts  of  magic. 

Nisabic,  confiding  in  the  strength  of  his  palace,  came 
out  by  the  formidable  vault,  and  pi'epared  to  meet  his 
antagonist.  The  group  of  females  still  advanced,  and  the 
knight  at  last  leaped  ashore. 

The  monster,  who  was  clad  in  strong  armor,  despised 
such  an  assailant.  He  had  consulted  his  horoscope,  and 
discovered  "  that  none  could  vanquish  him,  without  being 
-naster  of  his  steel  house."  It  appeared  to  him  almost 
impossible  that  his  enemy  could  escape  the  danger  of  the 
mysterious  vault ;  and,  if  he  should  even  be  so  happy  as 
to  pass  through  it,  he  thought  he  could  still  make  no 
impression  on  a  fort  which  he  regarded  as  impregnable 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  467 

Njsabic,  bearing  in  his  hand  a  steel  club  of  enormous 
weight,  advanced  to  Habib.  "'Audacious  stranger  !"  cried 
he,  "  what  ma'dness  has  induced  thee  to  rush  on  certain 
destruction  ?"  "I  am  the  knight  of  Dorathil-goase,"  an- 
swered Habib,  firmly ;  "  I  come  to  punish  the  rebels 
against  God  and  the  great  Solomon.''  "Vile  reptile!" 
replied  the  enraged  genie,  "  receive  the  death  I  inflict  on 
the  meanest  of  my  slaves  ! "  .  While  he  pronounced  these 
words,  he  raised  his  dreadful  club,  and  aimed  a  blow  at 
the  head  of  the  young  prince. 

The  hero  warded  off  the  stroke  with  the  blade  of  his 
scimitar.  The  effect  was  terrible.  At  the  siffht  of  the 
awful  talisman  the  club  dropped  from  the  hands  of  the 
genie,  and  he  fell  motionless  on  the  earth.  He  saw  him- 
self in  the  power  of  his  enemy,  and  muttered  some  dark 
words  of  conjuration.  Habib  flew  on  his  vanquished  foe, 
and  endeavored  to  pierce  his  body,  but  he  was  surprised 
to  find  that  it  was  only  his  armor  that  lay  at  his  feet,  and 
that  he  had  obtained  no  more  than  the  shell  of  the  war- 
rior. The  material  substance  of  Nisabic  had  disappeared; 
and  the  Arabian  prince  did  not  at  that  moment  know  that 
his  victory  was  greater  than  if  he  had  seized  the  body  of 
the  genie.  In  short,  the  prophecy  was  explained  and 
accomplished  which  declared  that  "  he  who  should  van- 
quish him  must  first  be  master  of  his  steel  house."  The 
oracle  meant  the  airnior  in  which  he  was  encased,  and 
which  Nisabic  thought  impenetrable. 

Habib  trampled  under  foot  this  enormous  suit  of  armor ; 
and  by  three  or  four  strokes  of  his  scimitar,  unloosed  all 
its  joints  and  scattered  the  fragments.  Thus  was  another 
prediction  of  the  oracle  fulfilled,  which  said,  that  "  The 
power  of  JSTisabic  should  be  disjointed  and  scattered." 

The  monster,  by  making  himself  invisible,  and  retiring 
under  the  vault  that  led  to  his  palace,  had  made  the  last 
effort  in  his  power.  He  presented  himself  at  the  entrance 
of  the  vault  in  his  natural  form,  with  his  sword  in  his 
hand,  as  if  he  would  challenge  his  antagonist  to  single 
combat.  The  young  prince  fell  into  the  snare;  the  genio 
retreated  a  fev  steps,  and  cut  the  thread  which  retained 


IGS  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  key-stone  of  the  vault,  and  the  rocks  instantly  begins 
1.0  fall  with  a  horrible  crashing  noise. 

At  the  first  alarm,  the  hero  pronounced  aloud  the  sacred 
word  of  the  talisman,  and  opposed  the  falling  rocks  by  the 
dazzling  blade  of  his  scimitar.  The  vast'  fragments  of 
stone  arranged  themselves  on  his  right  hand  and  his  left, 
without  doing  the  least  injury  to  the  young  sultan;  but 
he  heard  near  him  the  most  piteous  cries  and  groans,  and' 
was  involved  in  a  cloud  of  dust.  It  was  the  tyrant  him- 
self who  uttered  these  lamentations  :  "Arabian  prince ! " 
cried  the  genie,  "  I  am  made  acquainted  with  thy  destiny 
and  my  own,  by  my  present  misfortune  I  The  oracles 
have  deceived  me ;  I  have  long  expected  thee,  yet  I  knew 
thee  not !  Thou  hast  disguised  thy  power  under  a  show 
of  weakness,  and  I  have  been  vanquished  through  my 
own  imprudence.  Abuse  not  thy  victory;  I  am  buried 
under  these  ruins,  in  a  situation  altogether  insupportable. 
Cause  me,  I  beseech  thee,  to  be  transported  to  the  dun- 
geons of  Caucasus,  where  I  may,  at  least,  have  the  com- 
fort of  mingling  my  groans  with  those  of  my  companions!" 

"Genie  !"  answered  Habib,  "thou  art,  indeed,  guilty  of 
many  crimes ;  yet,  as  I  have  the  soul  of  a  true  knight, 
even  an  enemy  may  demand  a  favor  of  me  !  I  must,  how- 
ever, take  advice;  and  I  will  not  return  thee  an  answer 
till  I  have  offered  up  three  prayers." 

Habib  was  enclosed  in  a  sort  of  pit  amidst  the  rocks. 
Scarce  was  the  cloud  of  dust  dissipated,  when  he  saw 
what  he  might  have  taken  for  two  stars  over  his  head; 
they  were  the  bright  eyes  of  Ilzaide,  the  youngest  of  the 
three  daughters  of  the  sea.  "Are  you  then  safe,  my 
prince?"  cried  she.  "How  happy  are  we  !  We  trembled 
for  your  life  when  we  beheld  this  mountain  tumble  on 
yo  lr  head  !  Lay  hold  of  my  hair,  sir.  Fear  not  that 
you  hurt  me.  I  have  strength  and  resolution  sufficient  to 
sustain  your  weight."  While  she  said  these  words,  she 
threw  down  her  long  flowing  tresses,  of  which  he  gently 
took  hold,  and  by  this  means  ascended  from  the  cavern 

His  first  care  was  to  thank  his  benefactress.  "  I  have 
clone  nothing,  sir  '  said  she,  "  that  merits  your  acknowl 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  469 

edgments.  Were  it  in  my  power,  I  would  make  you  the 
happiest  of  mortals."  She  then  lent  him  her  hand,  and 
assisted  him  in  passing  from  one  rock  to  another,  till  they 
came  to  the  exterior  rampart  of  the  steel  castle,  the  resi- 
dence of  the  genie  Nisabic. 

Scarce  were  they  arrived  at  the  outward  fosse,  when 
they  observed  the  other  daughters  of  the  sea  at  a  short 
distance.  "Come,  sisters,"  cried  Ilzaide,  "here  he  is!" 
Nothing  but  a  true  and  sincere  passion  could  have  pre- 
served our  hero  from  the  attacks  of  the  charming  Ilzaide, 
which  were  the  more  dangerous  as  they  were  the  effusions 
of  innocence  and  pure  simplicity  of  heart?;  but  his  choice 
was  fixed  by  destiny,  and  the  beautiful  queen  had  nothing 
to  fear. 

The  conquest  of  the  Green  Isle  was  not  yet  accom- 
plished. The  steel  castle  was  inaccessible;  the  fortifica- 
tions were  guarded,  the  gates  shut,  and  the  bridges  drawn 
up.  "  I  know  not,"  said  Habib,  "  how  I  shall  set  about 
this  arduous  enterprise.  This  fort  seems  impregnable  to 
human  force.  I  have  no  confidence  in  my  own  powers; 
the  decrees  of  fate  must  guide  my  steps.  Perhaps,"  con- 
tinued he,  addressing  the  three  sisters,  "the  pretended 
submission  of  Nisabic  might  be  a  snare  laid  to  bring  me 
into  new  difficulties  and  dangers,  in  which  it  would  be 
improper  that  you  should  partake.  Return,  then,  to  your 
native  element.  Offer  up  your  prayers  for  the  knight  of 
Dorathil-goase ;  at  least,  let  your  absence  make  me  easy 
on  your  account."  "  We  will  not  leave  you,"  answered 
they.  "  We  fear  no  danger  while  you  are  with  us.  If 
you  were  by  my  side,"  added  the  youngest,  "  I  would 
brave  the  fury  of  the  tempest,  while  it  tears  up  the  foun- 
dation of  the  rocks  ! " 

Habib  approached  the  draw-bridge  with  his  scimitar  in 
his  hand.  "  In  the  name  of  Solomon,"  cried  he,  "  and  by  vir- 
tue of  his  talisman,  I  command  this  bridge  to  be  let  down  ! " 
In  a  moment  it  began  to  move  on  its  hinges,  descended, 
and  offered  an  easy  passage  over  the  fosse.  The  hero 
with  his  sabre  cut  the  two  chains  that  served  to  raise  it 
and  entered  the  court  of  the  fortress 

40 


170  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMLNT8 

In  the  midst  of  that  oourt  stood  a  lofty  column,  on  the 
top  of  which  was  placed  an  iron  cage.  This  pillar  was 
covered  with  talismanic  inscriptions.  On  the  bottom  was 
written,  "  Thou  canst  not  be  destroyed  but  by  the  power  of 
Arabia  !"  Habib  struck  the  talismans  with  his  sword.  A 
sudden  noise  resounded  from  the  caverns  through  the 
vaulted  roofs  of  the  castle,  and  the  pillar  sunk  into  dust. 
The  subjects  of  Dorathil-goase,  whom  the  tyrant  had 
loaded  with  chains,  now  issued  from  their  dungeons.  The 
iron  cage  stood  on  the  earth,  and  Habib  perceived  that  it 
contained  a  very  extraordinary  object  —  a  naked  woman, 
whose  face  was  covered  with  her  long  hair.  "  Who  are 
}tou,  madam?"  asked  the  hero.  "  Sir,"  answered  she,  "I 
pray  thee  deliver  me  from  this  prison  and  give  me  some 
garments  that  I  may  appear  with  decency  before  you. 
This  cage  is  shut  by  means  of  a  talisman,  which  the  cruel 
Nisabic  always  carries  about  with  him.  .Restore  my  lib- 
erty, and  I  shall  never  cease  to  bless  God,  and  Mohammed, 
and  yourself."  "  You  will  not,  1  hope,  forget  the  great 
Solomon,"  interrupted  the  knight,  "  in  whose  name  1 
break  these  bars."  At  the  same  time  he  cut  them  in 
pieces  with  his  sabre. 

The  three  daughters  of  the  sea  each  contributed  part 
of  their  dress  to  afford  a  covering  for  the  prisoner,  so 
that  she  might  present  herself  before  the  hero  without 
offence  to  modesty.  As  soon  as  the  subjects  of  Dorathil- 
goase  saw  themselves  relieved  from  their  fetters,  they 
made  haste  to  show  their  respect  and  attachment  to  the 
unknown  lady,  by  falling  prostrate  at  her  feet.  Habib 
expressed  his  surprise  at  this  behavior  :  "  What  means  all 
this?  who  is  this  lady?"  asked  he.  'Alas!  sir;"  answered 
they,  "  it  is  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses.  She  was  our 
queen  before  the  rebellion  of  AbarikafF.  She  is  the  near 
relation  of  the  fair  Dorathil-goase." 

"O  Heaven  !"  cried  the  Arabian  prince,  "a  queen,  the 
kinswoman  of  Dorathil-goase!  How  shall  I  be  able  to 
restore  her  to  what  she  has  lost  ?" 

:'  Nothing  can  be  easier,"  answered  they.  "The  tyrant 
oas  collected  in  his  fortress,  not  only  ail  the  riches  of  our 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  471 

queen,  but  the  whole  spoil  of  the  island.  While  }tou  are 
master  here,  you  possess  abundance  of  treasure.  Those 
poor  women  whom  you  see  at  the  further  end  of  the  court, 
and  whose  situation  forbids  them  to  approach  you,  were 
the  servants  of  our  I'oyal  mistress.  They  showed  too 
much  attachment  to  her  after  her  misfortunes,  and  a  long 
imprisonment  has  been  the  reward  bestowed  by  the  ty- 
rant on  their  fidelity." 

"  Bring  hither,"  cried  Habib,  "  all  those  who  have  been 
attached  to  the  person  of  your  queen.  Let  them  take 
jsossession  of  this  palace,  which  belongs  to  her."  "  I  my- 
self was  in  her  service,"  said  he  whom  he  had  formerly 
addressed,  "and  held  a  place  of  some  consequence." 
"Thou  mayest  resume  it/'  returned  Habib,  "if  your  mis- 
tress thinks  fit.  In  the  meantime  use  every  means  to 
relieve  her  present  wants  ;  and  when  you  have  made  her 
easy,  since  you  know  this  place,  you  can  point  out  to  me 
the  most  magnificent  apartment  in  the  castle,  that  I  may 
have  the  pleasure  of  conducting  her  into  it." 

In  a  moment,  all  the  servants  who  had  formed  the 
household  of  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses,  were  assem- 
bled. Habib  presented  them  to  her,  and  at  the  same  time 
begged  that  she  would  favor  him  with  her  hand. 

"To  you  it  belongs,"  said  she,  "to  command  in  this 
place."  "  Permit  me,  madam,  as  the  knight  of  Dorathil- 
goase,  to  have  the  honor  of  reconducting  you  to  your 
palace." 

The  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  cast  down  her  eyes, 
and  suffered  the  hero  to  lead  her  into  the  splendid  apart- 
ment that  had  been  prepared  for  her  by  the  genie,  but  to 
which  she  had  preferred  the  iron  cage  she  had  just  left. 
Everything  was  in  the  most  superb  style.  A  profusion 
of  riches  was  accumulated  around  her,  and  the  lady  found 
no  difficulty  in  providing  suitable  garments  for  herself  and 
her  whole  court.  *   ■ 

The  three  daughters  of  the  sea  followed  her,  and  as  the 
companions  of  the  Arabian  knight,  claimed  the  honor  of 
being  permitted  to  trim  her  beautiful  hair. 

"Alas!     cried  she,  "these  locks  have  been  the  cause  of 


472  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

1113-  misfortunes,  yet  they  have  also  been  a  resource  during 
my  sufferings,  and  I  do  not  regret  the  care  I  have  taken  to 
preserve  them.  With  pleasure,  therefore.  I  commit  them 
to  your  care."  The  beautiful  queen  arose  from  her  toilet 
with  a  triple  crown  on  her  head,  formed  of  her  braided 
hair,  entwined  with  strings  of  rubies  and  pearls,  while 
two  loose  tresses  waved  gracefully  on  her  back,  and  de- 
scended lower  than  her  girdle. 

She  was  no  sooner  dressed  than  an  usher  entered  to 
announce  that  dinner  was  ready.  She  invited  the  three 
sisters  to  dine  with  her,  and  the  gallant  Habib  led  her 
into  the  hall.  Now  was  the  Arabian  knight  seated  at  a 
table  with  ladies  for  the  first  time  in  his  life;  nor  had  he 
enjoyed  a  repast  that  was  not  the  immediate  produce  of 
his  own  industry  or  that  of  others,  for  six  months  before. 
The  entertainment  was  sumptuous,  for  there  was  no  want 
of  provisions  in  the  kitchens  and  stores  of  Nisabic. 

The  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  was  in  the  flower  of 
youth.  Her  stature  was  graceful  and  majestic ;  her  shape 
perfectly  handsome ;  her  bright  eyes  were  expressive  of 
languor  and  keen  sensibility;  in  short,  it  was  impossible 
to  behold  her  without  sympathizing  with  her  misfortunes; 
and  no  heart,  but  one  entirely  preoccupied,  could  have 
resisted  her  charms.  Habib  regarded  her  with  a  look  of 
tender  compassion,  and  Ilzaide  meeting  the  glance  of  his 
eye,  felt  the  sting  of  jealousy  without  suspecting  the  cause. 

During  the  repast,  the  company  reciprocally  showed 
each  other  the  most  polite  attentions,  and  when  it  was 
finished,  they  retired  into  another  apartment.  There,  as 
soon  as  they  were  seated,  Habib  entreated  the  fair  queen 
to  favor  them  with  a  recital  of  her  ill-fortune.  The  lady, 
heaving  a  sigh,  and  wiping  the  tears  from  her  lovely  eyes, 
began  in  this  manner:  — 

STORY    OF    THE   LADY    OF   THE    BEAUTIFUL   TRESSES. 

My  father  swayed  the  sceptre  over  the  Green  and  the 
Blue  Isles,  under  the  favor  of  his  brother  (the  father  of 
Dorathil-goase),  to  whom  he  annually  did  homage,  and 
offered  a  tribute.      I  am,  like  my  cousin,  the  only  offspring 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  473 

of  a  marriage  contracted  between  a  prince  and  the  daugh- 
ter of  a  genie. 

Illabousatrous,  father  to  my  aunt  Camarilzaman,  and 
chief  of  the  spirits  subject  to  Solomon,  had  formed  the 
project  of  establishing  in  this  country  all  the  genii  obedi- 
ent to  that  great  prophet.  To  prevent  their  relapse,  ho 
wished  them  to  intermarry  with  the  children  of  Adam. 
Many  of  them  refused  these  terms,  among  whom  were 
Abarikaff,  llokilras,  and  Nisabic.  They  offered  many 
pretended  reasons  for  their  revolt,  but  their  true  motive 
to  rebellion  was  their  ambition  to  possess  sovereign 
authority. 

I  lost  my  parents  about  the  same  time  that  my  cousin 
Dorathil-goase  was  deprived  of  hers.  1  saw  myself  thus 
seated  on  a  throne,  under  the  guidance  of  an  old  vizier 
whom  my  father  had  chosen  for  me.  The  insolent  Nisa- 
bic,  a  favorite  of  Abarikaff,  became  in  love,  not  with  my 
person,  but  with  tbese  locks  of  hair. 

He  had  convinced  himself,  by  prognostics  drawn  from 
his  enchantments,  that,  if  he  could  espouse  me,  he  might 
subject  to  his  power  as  many  genii  as  there  are  hairs  in 
my  head,  and  that  each  individual  hair  would  serve  to 
claim  one  genie. 

The  monster  had  the  audacity  to  communicate  to  me 
his  extravagant  project,  and  to  represent,  by  way  of  in- 
ducing me  to  comply,  the  great  power  I  might  by  this 
means  enjoy.  I  rejected  his  offers  with  disdain,  and  be- 
stowed my  hand  on  the  young  prince  Dalilsha,  who 
already  possessed  my  heart.  Scarce  were  we  united, 
when  the  rebellion  of  Abarikaff  was  declared.  He  drew 
into  his  revolt  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  Black  Isle,  over 
whom  he  had  been  placed  as  vizier.  Legions  of  rebel 
spirits  came  to  join  his  standard,  from  the  most  distant 
parts  of  the  earth.  Illabousatrous  and  his  grand-daughter 
could  scarce  maintain  their  ground  in  the  Island  of  JVIedi- 
naz-il-ballor ;  nor  could  they  afford  the  smallest  aid  to 
those  who  were  subdued  by  Mokilras  and  Nisabic,  under 
the  authority  of  Abarikaff. 

Dalilsha,  my  husband,  was  sent  prisoner  to  the  Black 


*74  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Isle,  where  the  traitor  Abarikaff  kept  him  as  a  hostage, 
while  the  wickei  Nisabic  again  renewed  to  me  the  offer 
of  his  odious  hand. 

"My  queen,"  said  he,  "jour  hand  is  now  disengaged, 
nor  can  you  reserve  it  for  my  slave.  It  belongs,  in  right, 
to  the  conqueror."  "  Yile  rebel,"  cried  I,  "  the  malignant 
stars  that  have  favored  thee  will,  one  day,  receive  the 
punishment  due  to  their  crimes."  He  retired  in  a  rage, 
and  shut  me  up  a  prisoner  in  my  palace.  Every  day  he 
renewed  his  importunities,  which  I  constantly  repelled 
with  the  utmost  contempt;  but,  blinded  as  he  was  by  the 
horoscope  he  had  drawn,  he  still  continued  to  require  my 
hand  in  the  most  imperious  tone. 

At  last,  when  he  found  he  had  nothing  to  hope  from 
entreaties  or  commands,  he  determined  to  employ  the 
most  terrible  severities  against  me.  I  threatened  to  pull 
out  the  fatal  hairs  by  the  roots.  "  I  shall  soon  prevent 
that,"  cried  he;  "they  shall  henceforth  be  your  only  re- 
source." 

The  monster  then  enclosed  me  in  the  iron  cage  from 
which  you  delivered  me.  In  my  miserable  captivity,  my 
life  was  sustained  by  his  enchantments.  I  was  allowed  no 
food  but  air,  no  drink  but  my  tears ;  my  hair  was  my  only 
protection  against  the  inclemency  of  the  weather  the  only 
covering  that  remained  to  conceal  my  confusion,  exposed, 
naked  as  I  was,  to  the  eyes  of  so  many  spectators.  Thus 
did  he  force  me  to  preseiwe  these  locks,  which  were  the 
source  of  my  misfortunes,  and  the  object  of  his  vain  hopes. 

Each  morning  he  came  to  the  bottom  of  the  pillar  and 
asked  if  I  was  weary  of  suffering,  and  would  now  consent 
to  give  him  my  hand  ?  I  entreated  that  he  might  permit 
me  to  die.  He  answered  me  by  sprinkling  some  water 
from  his  hand  into  the  air.  "Live,  suffer,  weep,  comb 
your  hair  with  your  fingers!"  cried  he,  with  an  air  of 
cruel  triumph.  Eveiy  night  he  urged  me  to  come  to  his 
bed,  repeating  the  same  words. 

This,  brave  knight,  is  my  sad  history.  It  is  impossible 
for  me  to  guess  how  long  my  sufferings  have  endured,  as 
I    was    continually   absorbed    in   melancholy  reflections. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  475 

fou  have  in  some  measure  relieved  me  from  my  troubles; 
but,  separated  as  I  am  from  a  husband  whom  I  tenderly 
love,  and  afflicted  with  the  idea  of  the  torments  to  which 
he  is,  without  doubt,  subjected,  I  cannot  taste  the  joy 
which  the  sight  of  my  deliverer  and  my  happy  change  of 
fortune  would  otherwise  inspire! 

When  she  had  ceased  to  speak,  the  lady  of  the  beautiful 
tresses  burst  into  tears,  and,  by  a  sort  of  involuntary  mo- 
tion, which  had  become  habitual  to  her,  put  her  fingers 
into  her  hair  as  if  to  comb  it. 

Habib  had  never  before  had  an  opportunity  of  commis- 
erating the  sufferings  of  others.  The  recital  of  the  lad}~'s 
disgrace  inspired  him  with  a  feeling  altogether  new  to  his 
mind.  His  soul  was  moved,  and  he  shed  a  torrent  of 
tears.  Ilzaide  began  to  sob  so  heavily  that  she  was 
obliged  to  rise  from  her  seat  and  go  out.  Her  eldest 
sister  followed  her.  "What  is  the  matte*,  Ilzaide?" 
asked  she;  "why  don't  you  contain  yourself  before  the 
company?"  "  I  cannot,"  answered  the  younger  sister; 
"  that  lady's  story  has  too  deeply  affected  our  Arabian 
knight.  You  are  not  like  me,  sister;  I  can't  bear  that 
he  should  suffer  the  smallest  degree  of  pain."  While  she 
talked  in  this  manner,  she  was  re-conducted  to  her  place. 

The  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses,  observing  the  uneasi- 
ness of  the  company  on  her  account,  composed  herself; 
and  Habib,  as  soon  as  he  had  mastered  his  own  emotions, 
addressed  her  in  this  manner  : 

"Madam,"  said  he,  "I  swear  by  the  sacred  scimitar  with 
which  I  am  intrusted,  that  your  husband  shall  be  restored 
to  you,  and  that  I  will  avenge  the  injuries  done  to  Dora- 
thil-goase  and  yourself,  till  the  last  of  your  enemies  are 
exterminated  ! 

"  If  I  may  credit  the  word  of  Nisabic,  he  already,  in 
part,  suffers  the  punishment  due  to  his  abominable  crimes, 
by  being  at  this  moment  buried  under  the  vast  heap  of 
rocks  with  which  he  wished  to  overwhelm  me.  I  am 
more  than  avenged  for  all  the  evil  he  intended  me.  But 
Heaven,  Dorathil-goase,  and  yourself,  madam,  call  for 
more  ample  vengeance      Let   us  go  together  to  the  foot 


476  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  these  rocks  under  which  he  expected  to  crush  me.  1 
will  employ  for  his  punishment  the  very  means  his  horo- 
scope pointed  out  to  him  as  the  fittest  to  subject  others 
to  his  power. 

''Deign  to  accompany  me,  madam,  that  I  may,  under 
the  protection  of  Heaven,  put  an  end  to  your  troubles, 
and  afford  you  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  your  injuries 
revenged." 

He  then  went  out,  followed  by  the  lady  of  the  beautiful 
tresses  and  the  three  sisters,  and  advanced  to  the  vast  pile 
of  rocks,  which  now  stopped  up  the  passage  between  the 
ramparts  of  the  castle  and  the  shore. 

When  they  arrived  on  the  spot,  Habib  struck  the  rock 
thrice  with  the  scimitar,  and  pronounced,  with  a  loud 
voice,  "Nisabic!  if  thou  dost  still  groan  under  these  rocks, 
give  a  sign  ;  it  is  the  Arabian  knight  who  calls  thee  ! "  At 
that  momen#  the  enormous  mass  of  stones  began  to  heave, 
and  a  dreadful  groan  was  heard.  The  lady  of  the  beauti- 
ful tresses  knew  the  voice,  and  trembled  at  the  soulJ. 

"Eebel  genie,"  resumed  Habib,  "I  am  still  ignorant  of 
man}T  crimes  you  may  have  committed ;  but  before  I  can 
send  thee  to  expiate  them  in  the  caverns  of  Caucasus, 
thou  must  be  humbled  in  the  presence  of  a  queen  whom 
"thou  hast  basely  insulted!" 

When  he  had  said  this  to  the  genie,  he  next  addressed 
himself  to  the  queen.  '"Madam,"  said  he,  "this  impious 
spirit  wished  to  make  use  of  your  hair  for  the  purpose  of 
subjecting  to  his  power  other  beings  like  himself.  It  will 
be  proper  to  punish  his  foolish  ambition  by  the  very  means 
he  hoped  to  employ  in  satisfying  it." 

Habib  again  struck  the  rock,  and  cried  out,  "  Guilty 
wretch !  thou  shalt  have  three  of  those  hairs  you  so  eagerly 
desired  ;  but  they  shall  become  chains  of  iron  on  thy  neck, 
thy  hands,  and  thy  feet."  He  then  threw  the  hairs  into 
the  air,  pronouncing  with  a  firm  and  solemn  tone  of  voice: 
"Noble  creatures  of  God!  spirits  who  watch  over  the 
elements  !  servants  of  Mohammed,  and  friends  of  Solomon! 
chain  this  criminal,  throw  him  at  the  feet  of  her  whom  he 
bath  offended,  and  then  bear  him  hence  to  the  dungeons 
of  ('aiiCHsiiK  !  " 


ARABTAN  nights'  entertainments.  47'' 

Dreadful  shrieks  were  heard,  the  rocks  opened,  and 
..<isabic  came  forth,  loaded  with  chains.  He  stood  for  an 
nstant  humbly  bending  his  head  to  the  earth,  before  the 
lad}7  of  the  beautiful  tresses,  and  suddenly  disappeared. 

While  the  hideous  monster  was  presented  to  their  view, 
[Izaide  concealed  herself  behind  the  knight.  The  fair 
queen  could  not  restrain  her  emotions  of  fear  and  disgust. 
"Take  courage,  madam,"  said  Habib,  "you  see  that  your 
hair  is  a  precious  treasure.  It  shall,  this  very  night,  free 
you  from  all  your  enemies  that  remain  shut  up  in  the  prisons 
of  this  castle,  and  whose  poisonous  breath  infects  the  air. 
The  same  means  will  be  effectual  against  those  who  are 
lurking  about  this  island,  in  hopes  of  escaping  my  ven- 
geance. Nor  is  this  all.  I  here  see  a  certain  and  easy 
method  of  subjecting  the  whole  rebel  genii  in  the  Blue 
Island,  without  the  trouble  of  going  in  pursuit  of  them. 
I  hope,  also,  to  see  your  powerful  hairs  prevail  against  the 
tyrant  Abarikaff  himself;  and  thus  will  the  horoscope  be 
verified  at  the  cost  of  your  enemies  and  those  of  Dorathil- 
goase,  which  foretold,  that  'your  locks  should  furnish 
chains  for  legions  of  genii.'  You  need  not  be  sparing  of 
your  hair,  madam ;  yield  to  the  call  of  destiny,  and  what- 
ever you  give  away  will  be  amply  replaced." 

The  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  returned  to  her  cham- 
ber, and  the  three  sisters  attended  at  her  toilet  to  undress 
her.  Confident  in  the  wisdom  and  virtue  of  the  knight, 
she  plucked  out  a  whole  handful  of  her  hair,  and  gloried 
in  the  thought  of  its  being  so  nobly  employed.  Ilzaide 
received  the  prize  from  her  hand,  and  flew  with  it  to  the 
hero.  Habib  then  went  to  the  gates  of  the  prisons  and 
performed  the  necessary  ceremonies,  and  all  the  rebel 
spirits  were,  at  his  command,  instantly  transported  to 
the  dungeons  of  Caucasus. 

He  next  mounted  on  the  terrace  at  the  top  of  the  castle, 
scattered  a  portion  of  the  hair  into  the  air,  and  invoked 
the  slaves  of  the  prophet,  commanding  them  to  give  the 
dharm  effect  against  all  their  remaining  enemies  in  the 
3reen  Isle,  and  also  against  those  who  were  in  possession 
>f  the  Blue  Isle.  He  heard  a  confused  sound  of  distant 
groans,  which  assured  him  of  the  success  of  his  operation 


478  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

He  indulged  a  moment's  reflection  on  what  he  had  done: 
"  Were  I  now  to  stand  before  thee,  my  dear  II  Haboul,  1 
might  appear  less  humbled  than  formerly;  but  I  could 
not  be  vain. 

"  The  words  have  passed  from  my  lips,  and  miracles 
have  followed.  I  have  conquered  —  shall  1  glory  in  my 
strength?  My  words  are  but  a  breath!  my  strength  but 
as  one  of  these  hairs  I  hold  in  my  hand  I"  While  he  said 
this,  he  carefully  put  into  his  bosom  the  remaining  Iock 
of  the  lady's  precious  hair,  and  returned  to  the  hall  to  join 
his  company. 

"Be  not  uneasy,  madam,"  said  he  as  he  entered;  "you 
are  delivered  from  your  enemies.  My  destiny  and  my 
duty  require  that  I  should  leave  you  to-morrow;  but  if 
Heaven  shall  favor  my  arms,  you  may  rest  assured  that 
I  will  not  lose  sight  of  my  dearest  interests.  To-morrow 
I  shall  have  the  honor  to  bear  the  commands  to  the  Blue 
Isle.  I  must  carry  with  me  the  amiable  companions  of 
my  labors.  I  have  yet  two  seas  to  pass ;  and  I  may  still 
have  need  of  their  kind  assistance  in  a  country  where  the 
tyrants  have  destroyed  every  means  of  navigation." 

The  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  was  sorry  to  part  so 
soon  with  the  young  hero,  to  whom  she  owed  her  deliv- 
erance ;  but  she  thought  it  her  duty  to  yield  to  a  request 
in  the  motive  of  which  she  was  deeply  interested.  They 
took  leave  of  each  other  with  every  testimony  of  the  most 
perfect  esteem. 

At  the  earliest  dawn,  Habib  with  his  fair  companions 
departed.  The  raft  flew  over  the  waves,  and  reached  the 
shore  of  the  Blue  Isles  before  mid-day.  The  inhabitants 
were  assembled  to  testify  their  joy  at  their  sudden  and 
unexpected  deliverance.  Their  oppressors  had  been  van- 
quished and  carried  off  before  their  eyes,  yet  they  knew 
not  by  whom. 

Habib,  on  his  arrival,  increased  their  satisfaction  by  in- 
forming them  of  the  happy  deliverance  of  their  queen. 
As  they  were  the  neighbors  of  the  Black  Isle,  he  made 
inquiry  as  to1  what  had  passed  there,  and  what  success 
Abarikaff  had  had  in  his  attack  on  the  isle  that  still 
remained  faithful  to  Dorathil-goaso. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  479 

"  Sir,"  i  nswered  the  inhabitants,  "  ever  since  the  rebels 
have  had  possession  of  this  isle,  there  has  not  been  even  a 
fishing-boat  seen  on  our  coast.  By  their  nature  they 
could  communicate  with  each  other  through  the  air  ;  bnt 
we  were  deprived  of  every  means  of  intercourse  with 
other  human  beings.  We  were  not  permitted  to  leave  the 
shore,  and  we  could  learn  nothing  of  what  happened  else- 
where. Whether  owing  to  a  near  or  distant  storm,  we 
cannot  tell,  but  the  arm  of  the  sea  that  flows  between  the 
islands,  has,  within  these  few  days,  become  much  blacker 
than  usual.  The  waves  are  constantly  agitated  though 
no  wind  nor  current  is  perceptible.  We  are  of  opinion 
that  the  passage  hence  to  the  Black  Isle  has  become  ex- 
tremely dangerous,  though  we  cannot  explain  the  cause. 
Indeed,  the  dread  of  the  tyrant  has  prevented  every  in- 
quiry of  that  sort. 

The  Arabian  hero,  resolving  to  see  with  his  own  eyes 
next  morning  the  dangers  they  had  described  to  him,  ac- 
cepted their  hospitable  invitation  ;  and,  without  commu- 
nicating anything  of  his  design,  cheerfully  partook  of 
their  amusements  and  festivity. 

He  arose  before  the  return  of  day,  mounted  his  raft, 
and  coasted  along  the  Blue  Isle,  till  he  had  passed  its  lim- 
its. He  then  attempted  to  enter  the  strait  which  sepa- 
rates it  from  the  Black  Isle,  but  the  waves  were  so  furi- 
ously agitated  that  the  dolphins  took  fright,  and  ran 
ashore  on  the  Blue  Isle. 

Habib  in  vain  struck  the  waves  with  his  sabre,  and  even 
pronounced  the  awful  word  which  had  dissolved  all  other 
enchantments,  without  effect.  The  charms  against  which 
he  now  contended  did  not  act  in  the  air,  and  the  means 
by  which  his  raft  was  thrown  ashore  were  perfectly  natu- 
ral, though  the  remote  cause  was  not  so. 

Vast  fishes  and  marine  monsters,  collected  from  all  the 
neighboring  seas,  wei^e  assembled  in  this  strait  to  oppose 
the  passage  of  our  hero.  The  waves  being  loadea  by 
their  enormous  bodies,  were  thrown  into  such  commotion, 
that  a  large  vessel  might  have  been  overset  by  the  surge, 
The  perturbed  waters,  in  short,  exhibited  the  riost  hid 


480  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

eous  spectacle.  The  daughters  of  the  sea,  accustomed  as 
they  were  to  the  sight  of  the  monstrous  inhabitants  of  the 
deep,  and  notwithstanding  the  presence  of  the  brave 
knight,  could  not  resist  the  terror  of  a  sight  so  new  and 
so  strange.  They  fled  with  precipitation  to  the  land, 
and  put  themselves  under  the  protection  of  the  Arabian 
prince,  who  stood  motionless,  absorbed  in  thought. 

"  What  danger  can  this  be,  that  has  frightened  the  dol- 
phins and  the  daughters  of  the  sea?  What  charm  has 
resisted  the  tremendous  word  I  have  pronounced  ?  The 
sword  of  Solomon  is  useless  in  the  hands  of  him  who  has 
not  his  wisdom.  My  dear  II  Haboul,  where  art  thou  ? 
Inspire  me,  I  beseech  thee.  Dangers  must  be  met,  and 
closely  examined.  Means  are  to  be  tried,  that  we  may 
judge  of  their  nature. 

"  Sword  of  Solomon,  open  to  me  a  passage  through  the 
abj^ss  of  the  sea,  or  bear  me,  if  it  be  needful,  upon  its 
raging  billows." 

The  hero,  while  he  spoke  thus,  stood  upon  the  pinnacle 
of  a  high  rock,  from  which  he  threw  himself  headlong 
into  the  sea.  Monstrous  fishes  crowded  around  him,  but 
without  doing  him  the  smallest  injury.  Wherever  he 
struck  with  his  scimitar,  death  followed  the  blow.  His 
track  was  marked  with  blood;  but  the  number  of  fishes 
seemed  still  to  increase.  They  pressed  upon  him  in  every 
direction,  being  confined  by  the  barriers  that  prevented 
their  escape. 

The  warrior  covered  the  sea  with  the  dead  bodies  of 
the  monsters,  and  fatigued  himself  in  vain,  while  the 
scaly  legions  that  surrounded  him  seemed  every  moment 
reinforced.  At  last  he  raised  his  head  above  the  heaps  of 
slain  that  floated  about  him.  "  In  the  name  of  Solomon,'^ 
cried  he,  "  by  whatever  charm  these  fishes  are  confined 
here,  let  it  be  destroyed,  and  let  them  be  dispersed  through 
the  vast  regions  of  the  deep  ! " 

This  command  was  followed  with  immediate  effect.  A 
tumultuous  motion  of  the  waves  announced  the  retreat  of 
the  aquatic  animals,  and  the  whole  crowd  instantly  disap- 
peared.    Habib,  now  swimming  amidst  a  calm  sea,  only 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  -481 

aaw  about  him  the  dead  fishes  that  lay  motionless  on  the 
water.  Whatever  possessed  life  had  escaped.  The  three 
sisters  beheld  what  passed,  from  the  summit  of  a  rock. 
Ilzaide  cried  out  with  terror  as  often  as  she  observed  the 
sea  stained  with  blood ;  but  when  she  saw  the  arm  and 
the  sword  of  the  hero  above  water,  "Thank  Heaven!" 
cried  she,  "that  blood  is  none  of  his!"  The  sea  was  now 
smooth,  and  she  observed  that  the  knight  directed  his 
course  toward  the  opposite  shore.  "  See,"  cried  Ilzaide, 
"see,  he  attempts  to  brave  the  waves,  and  cross  the  sea 
by  swimming;  he  will  certainly  perish."  She  plunged 
into  the  water,  that  she  might  fly  to  his  aid.  Her  sisters 
called  to  her  in  vain,  and  at  last  threw  themselves  into 
the  sea  after  her.  Nor  were  they  her  only  followers  ;  two 
dolphins  who  had  been  disentangled  from  the  raft,  and 
who  delighted  to  sport  around  their  young  mistress,  were 
at  her  side.  The  tranquil  waters  opposed  not  the  course 
of  such  dexterous  swimmers,  and  they  proceeded  with 
astonishing  rapidity. 

Ilzaide  expected  soon  to  reach  the  object  of  her  anxie- 
ty, and  offer  him  assistance  ;  but  in  a  moment  the  hero 
plunged  under  the  water,  and  disappeared.  She  dived 
at  the  same  time,  and  witnessed  the  horrible  conflict. 

Habib  was  now  engaged  with  Abarikaff  himself,  who 
had  entered  into  the  body  of  a  whale,  and  exerted  his 
utmost  efforts.  When  the  hero  advanced,  the  prodigious 
animal  opened  its  enormous  jaws,  and  poured  forth  a  tor- 
rent of  water  which  seemed  to  overwhelm  him;  but  Habib 
soon  appeared  above  the  waves,  and  leaping  on  the  back 
of  the  monster,  with  his  irresistible  scimitar  pierced  the 
heart  of  the  vast  animated  mass  with  which  he  contended. 

The  huge  monster  began  to  struggle,  covering  the  sea 
with  blood  and  froth,  and  in  an  instant  sunk  to  the  bot- 
tom. Habib,  unable  to  breathe  in  the  watery  element, 
was  forced  to  rise  to  the  surface,  but  he  still  followed  the 
Dloody  track  of  his  wounded  enemy.  When  his  strength 
was  nearly  exhausted,  Ilzaide  came  up  to  him  :  "  Brave 
knight,"  cried  she,  "mount  on  one  of  these  dolphins.  You 
are  too  adventurous.  How  is  it  possible  that  you,  whose 
41  2f 


482  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

nature  is  no  more  than  human,  should  thus  risk  jourse  f 
in  the  open  sea  and  do  as  you  have  done  I" 

The  Arabian  prince  thanked  Heaven  for  its  protection, 
and  for  the  aid  now  sent  him.  He  followed  the  advice  of 
Ilzaide,  and  seated  on  the  dolphin,  observed  at  his  ease  the 
consequences  of  the  terrible  combat,  in  which  he  had  been 
victorious.  When  Abarikaff  attacked  the  hero,  he  was 
attended  by  other  rebel  genii,  accomplices  of  his  crimes, 
who  had  assumed  hideous  forms  like  his  own.  But  his 
danger  made  the  others  betake  themselves  to  flight. 

Struck  with  terror,  they  only  thought  of  making  their 
escape.  They  endeavored  to  leave  the  bodies  of  those 
whales,  sword-fishes,  sharks,  and  sea-lions,  of  which  they 
had  taken  possession  by  their  enchantment,  but  a  more 
potent  charm  retained  them.  It  was  the  hair  of  the  fair 
queen,  of  which  Habib  had  thrown  a  portion  into  the  sea, 
in  a  moment  of  enthusiasm.  "May  those  hairs,"  cried  he, 
"bind  as  many  slaves  to  God,  in  the  name  of  Solomon,  as 
the  wicked  Nisabic  hoped  to  subject  by  their  means  to  his 
own  power !" 

The  charm  attached  to  these  hairs  had  operated,  and 
from  that  moment  the  genii  were  held  captives  in  the 
bodies  of  the  monsters  into  which  they  had  entered. 

The  whale  possessed  by  Abarikaff,  exhausted  by  the 
loss  of  its  blood,  now  lay  without  motion  on  the  surface 
of  the  water,  and  appeared  like  a  floating  island.  The 
Arabian  knight  sprang  from  his  dolphin,  and  mounted  on 
the  back  of  his  vanquished  enemy,  where  he  gave  thanks 
to  God  for  his  victory. 

"My  confidence,"  cried  he,  "is  in  thee  alone  !  I  fear  not 
to  plunge  into  the  abysses  of  the  deep.  Even  there  hast 
thou  thus  opened  my  eyes,  and  given  strength  to  my  arm' 
I  have  attacked  this  enormous  monster,  and  my  sword 
has  pierced  his  heart.  When  my  powers  sunk  under 
fatigue,  thou  didst  send  me  relief.  A  child  in  thy  hand  is 
more  powerful  than  a  legion  of  the  wicked!" 

Ilzaide,  emboldened  by  the  sight  of  the  valiant  prince, 
leaped  also  on  the  back  of  the  vast  fish.  Her  sisters  came 
up,  attended  by  six  other  dolphins,  and  were  pr»*  mailed  on 
to  follow  the  example  of  Ilzaide. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  483 

In  1  je  meantime  the  enormous  mass  which  boie  them 
was  diiven  along  the  current  of  the  tide,  and  passed  the 
channel  which  led  to  the  Black  Isles.  Habib,  after  re- 
ceiving with  modesty  the  congratulations  of  his  compan- 
ions on  his  recent  victories,  asked  them  what  country  it 
was  he  discerned  in  the  edge  of  the  horizon.  "  It  is  the 
isle  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor,"  said  the  eldest  sister,  "  in  the 
capital  of  which  dwells  our  amiable  queen,  Dorathil-goase." 
At  hearing  this  discourse,  Habib  could  not  contain  his 
joy.  "How,"  cried  he,  "do  I  then  at  last  behold  that 
long  looked-for  country  ?  How  happy  would  I  be  could 
I  conduct  the  monster  under  our  feet  into  the  port  of  your 
queen.  What  an  agreeable  sight  it  might  afford  her;  for 
I  believe  the  rebel  Abarikaff  lies  chained  in  the  belly  of 
this  whale." 

"  Your  wish  may  be  accomplished,"  said  the  eldest  of 
the  three  sisters;  "  though  the  raft  will  be  rather  unwieldy. 
We  will  go  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea  in  search  of  marine 
plants,  of  which  we  may  form  a  harness  to  yoke  our  dol- 
phins." In  a  moment  they  plunged  into  the  water  and 
disappeared. 

By  their  address  and  activity  they  soon  obtained  what 
they  sought.  The  dolphins  were  yoked,  and  the  body  of 
the  whale,  no  longer  impelled  by  the  current,  now  took  its 
course  toward  the  harbor  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor. 

Heavy  groans  issued  from  the  bowels  of  the  enormous 
carcass,  with  a  hollow  sound  resembling  the  rushing  of 
the  waves  when  they  are  dashed  into  some  profound  cav- 
ern of  the  rocks  on  the  shore.  Abarikaff  saw  himself 
about  to  be  delivered  up  to  the  vengeance  of  Illabousa- 
trous  and  Dorathil-goase,  from  whom  he  expected  no 
mercy. 

In  the  meantime  the  huge  mass  which  approached  the 
shore  of  the  isle  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor,  attracted  the  notice 
of  Ilbaccaras,  whose  office  it  was  to  keep  watch  over  all 
the  territories  of  Dorathil-goase  adjacent  to  the  coast  of 
the  Black  Isle.  That  vizier,  transformed  into  a  bird,  had 
taken  his  station  on  the  middle  region  of  the  island,  the 
inferior  pa  ts  of  the  country  being  infested  by  parties  of 


484  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    EN1 ERTAINMENTS 

the  rebels.  He  observed  some  commotion  in  the  sea,  but 
could  not,  on  account  of  the  distance,  discover  the  caase. 
He,  however,  saw  what  appeared  like  a  point,  detach  itself 
and  float  on  the  water.  He  ventured  to  descend  from  his 
post,  and  was  surprised  to  find  that  the  air  was  entirely 
free ;  yet  he  was  still  suspicious  of  some  secret  snare,  and 
approached  with  great  caution  toward  the  earth.  All  the 
vapors  that  had  covered  the  coast  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor, 
and  the  neighboring  sea,  had  now  retired  to  the  Black 
Isle,  which  seemed  overwhelmed  by  the  thick  cloud. 

By  degrees  the  small  point  seemed  to  extend  as  it  ap- 
proached them,  and  at  last  it  appeared  like  a  floating  isle, 
capable  of  choking  up  the  harbor  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor. 
Nor  did  this  island  seem  uninhabited,  though  otherwise 
entirely  barren.  On  making  this  discover}^,  he  instantly 
flew  to  inform  Dorathil-goase  of  what  he  had  seen. 

"  Great  queen,"  cried  he,  "  I  come  to  inform  you,  that  I 
have  just  now  observed  some  extraordinary  appearances 
on  the  sea  that  separates  us  from  the  Black  Isle.  Early 
this  morning  I  perceived  a  great  commotion  in  the  waves, 
which  was  not  occasioned  by  the  winds,  for  they  moved 
in  an  opposite  direction.  An  island,  soon  after,  arose  from 
the  bosom  of  the  deep,  which  has  continued  to  advance, 
by  what  means  I  know  not,  toward  your  port.  It  is  of  a 
size  sufficient  to  fill  up  the  whole  harbor;  and  I  saw  on  its 
surface  beings  of  a  human  form.  Besides,  Abarikaff  has 
removed  all  his  sentinels  from  their  posts.  The  whole 
force  of  the  enemy  has  retired  to  the  Black  Isle,  which 
seems  involved  in  darkness. 

"This  floating  isle  may  be  intended  to  promote  some 
new  stratagem  of  the  enemy,  which  he  has  artfully  con- 
cealed under  an  appearance  not  very  alarming.  At  any 
rate,  since  this  must  be  the  work  of  enchantment,  you 
ought  to  take  every  measure  your  prudence  can  suggest 
to  guard  against  its  effects." 

Dorathil-goase  commanded  that  her  two  ministers  and 
her  grandfather  should  be  informed  of  this  affair.  In  an 
instant  the  coast  was  covered  with  all  the  warriors  of  the 
island. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  485 

Ulabousatrous  assembled  all  the  genii  that  remained 
faithful  to  him,  that  he  might  be  enabled  to  repel  th«» 
attacks  of  Abarikaff  and  the  other  wicked  spirits  which 
had  joined  in  his  revolt.  Every  preparation  was  made  in 
the  city  of  Medinaz-Il-ballor  for  the  most  vigorous  defence. 
in  case  the  vast  mass  which  approached  should  contain  a 
numerous  army  of  hostile  spirits  ready  to  be  poured  forth 
on  their  coast. 

Habib,  whose  eyes  were  constantly  fixed  on  the  place 
where  he  hoped  to  see  the  charming  object  of  his  love, 
soon  guessed  the  cause  of  the  warlike  preparations  he 
remarked  on  the  shore.  As  they  entered  the  road  of 
Medinaz,  they  happened  to  pass  near  a  small  island  cov- 
ered with  mangroves.*  The  young  prince  cut  a  branch 
with  his  scimitar,  and  presented  it  to  Ilzaide.  "  Go,"  said 
he,  "charming  maid!  carry  this  branch  as  an  ensign  of 
peace,  and  demand  an  audience  of  the  queen  Dorathil- 
goase  ;  tell  her  that  an  Arabian  knight,  whose  life  is  de- 
voted to  her  service,  entreats  her  permission  to  throw 
himself  at  her  feet." 

Ilzaide  took  the  branch,  and  dived  into  the  sea.  She 
halted  to  adjust  her  dress  under  a  rock  that  protected  the 
mouth  of  the  harbor.  She  then  emerged  from  the  water, 
displaying  the  mangrove  branch  in  her  hand,  and  required 
the  guard  to  conduct  her  into  the  presence  of  the  queen. 
It  is  impossible  to  describe  the  transports  of  joy  with 
which  Dorathil-goase  received  the  message  of  the  fair 
ambassadress.  Her  first  minister,  however,  restrained  her 
from  flying  to  the  shore,  as  she  intended.  "  Madam,"  said 
he,  "  your  enemy  knows  that  your  destiny  promises  you  a 
deliverer  from  Arabia  ;  this  may  be  a  plot  conducted  under 
the  mask  of  innocence  and  simplicity.  The  vehicle  which 
brings  your  knight  appears  very  suspicious.  Suffer  me  to 
put  some  questions  to  his  ambassadress. 

"Young  daughter  of  the  sea!   (for  such  you  are  from 

*  The  mangrove,  or  mangle,  is  a  beautiful  marine  plant  or  tree,  coinmdh  in 
the  East  Indies.     It  rises  to  the  height  of  forty  or  fifty  feet,  and  only  growi 
in  such  places  as  are  washed  by  the  tide  twice  a  day.     The  bark  of  a  partio 
nlar  species  is  much  uied  foi    aaking  ropes. 
41* 


486  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

your  appearance,)  canst  thou  tell  us  by  what  means  the 
knight  who  has  sent  you  proposes  to  arrive  on  our  island" 
He  cannot  come  ashore  on  his  floating  island  without  over- 
whelming  our  harbor." 

"Then  you  take  for  an  island,"  answered  Ilzaide,  "that 
great  ugly  whale  which  I  saw  him  kill ;  and  on  the  back 
of  which  my  two  sisters  and  I  mounted  along  with  him  ! 
He  told  us,  that  that  enormous  monster  was  the  queen's 
greatest  enemy,  and  he  wished  to  present  him  to  her." 

"And  dost  thou  not  recognize  Habib  by  this  exploit?" 
asked  the  queen  eagerly,  addressing  herself  to  her  minister. 

"  Not  yet,  madam,"  answered  he ;  "Abarikaff  may  come 
and  take  possession  of  your  port  under  the  form  of  a 
whale,  that  he"  may  subject  you  to  his  power,  and  after- 
ward give  you  laws  in  his  own  name." 

"Abarikaff!"  repeated  Ilzaide  with  vivacity;  "he  and 
his  vile  crew  have  done  us  much  mischief;  but  I  hope  he 
shall  do  us  no  more.  I  believe  it  is  himself  who  groans 
in  the  belly  of  the  whale  —  at  least  the  hero  says  so." 

"And  pray  thee,  young  woman,  who  is  the  hero?"  re- 
sumed the  vizier. 

"  It  is  he,"  answered  Ilzaide,  with  a  degree  of  enthu- 
siasm,—  "it  Is  he  who  killed  the  monstrous  shark  Eaca- 
chik,  his  son  the  tiger,  and  the  huge  giant  clad  in  steel 
armor!  It  is  he  who  delivered  the  lady  of  the  beautiful 
tresses ;  he,  in  short,  who  has  vanquished  all  the  monsters 
that  oppressed  us.  Whatever  he  performed  he  did  in  the 
name  of  our  queen  Dorathil-goase.  My  sisters  call  him  a 
hero;  I  know  not  what  that  means;  but  if  you  loved  him 
half  as  much  as  I  do,  yOu  would  fly  this  moment  to  meet 
him!" 

Dorathil-goase,  notwithstanding  her  anxiety,  could  not 
help  smiling  at  this  sally  of  simplicity  uttered  in  praise 
of  the  idol  of  her  soul.  "  Take  your  flight,"  said  she  to 
Ilbaccaras,  "and  present  yourself  before  Habib  in  your 
natural  form.  Cause  him  to  be  commodiously  conducted 
hither  by  two  of  your  genii;  and  take  care  to  have  the 
whale  dragged  out  upon  the  sand." 

"  My  sisters,"  said  Ilzaide,  "  have  always  attended  the 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS1    ENTERTAINMENTS.  487 

hero ;  I  praj'  you,  madam,  let  them  come  along  with  him 
they  would  be  sorry  to  part  from  him." 

"Yes,  my  dear  girl,"  answered  the  queen,  "let  them 
come.  Your  sisters  shall  be  as  welcome  as  yourself ;  you 
shall  each  of  you  be  received  with  kindness." 

Ilbaccaras  departed,  and  was  satisfied  to  find  that  the 
fair  ambassadress  remained  as  a  hostage.  He  could  now 
no  longer  doubt  the  truth  of  her  report. 

Illabousatrous  arrived.  "  1  have  this  moment  been  as- 
sured, my  dear  child  ! "  cried  he,  "  that  you  are  about  to 
receive  your  Arabian  knight,  your  deliverer,  who  has 
restored  to  you  all  the  dominions  you  have  lost,  and  re- 
established your  authority." 

The  young  queen  felt  such  an  ecstasy  of  joy  that  she 
could  scarcely  contain  her  emotions.  She  commanded 
her  vizier,  and  requested  her  grandfather,  to  give  the 
necessary  orders  for  the  triumphant  reception  of  her. 
knight,  her  avenger,  her  lover,  her  husband.  She  made 
Ilzaide  recount  to  her  all  the  circumstances  of  his  adven- 
tures. During  the  recital  she  was  alternately  agitated 
with  transports  of  joy  and  emotions  of  tenderness. 

Ilbaccaras  had  now  met  the  hero.  He  proposed  to 
carry  him  immediately  into  the  queen's  palace.  "My 
duty  and  my  regard  to  her  interests,"  said  Habib,  "still 
demand  my  presence  for  a  few  moments.  You  may  drag 
the  whale  ashore;  but  I  must  be  present  while  you  do  so. 
My  impatience  has,  on  a  former  occasion,  led  me  into  an 
error  ;  I  must  now  guard  against  it.  I  suspect  that  the 
cruel  enemy  of  your  queen  still  lies  in  the  bowels  of  the 
monster  he  had  raised  up  against  me.  I  must  be  assured 
that  his  power  is  destroyed,  in  order  to  acquit  myself  of 
my  duty  as  the  servant  of  Solomon,  as  well  as  to  secure 
the  peace  of  your  sovereign."  Ilbaccaras  caused  the 
whale  to  be  drawn  to  a  sloping  part  of  the  shore,  where, 
by  redoubled  efforts,  it  was  at  last  brought  to  land.  Ha- 
bib approached  it,  and  spoke  thus  with  a  firm  tone :  "  Yile 
enemy  of  God!"  said  he,' addressing  the  monster,  "  rebd 
against  him  and  his  prophets!  apostate  from  the  law  to 
whicn   thou   art  subjected!  —  art   thou  concealed  in   the 


488  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

entrails  of  this  fish?"  A  sound  resembling  the  gnashing 
of  teeth  proceeded  from  the  belly  of  the  enormous  animal. 
"  Speak,"  cried  Habib,  "  or  I  will  devote  thee  to  the  m^nt 
cruel  punishments ! "  At  last  a  dismal  and  plaintive 
"  Yes     was  uttered  from  the  jaws  of  the  monster." 

The  knio-ht  then  took  from  his  bosom  the  remaining 
portion  of  the  lady's  hair;  "May  the  projects  of  the  wick- 
ed spirits,"  said  he,  "now  be  executed  against  themselves. 
May  each  of  these  hairs  become  a  chain  of  iron,  to  deprive 
them  of  all  action  I  Mayest  thou  be  delivered  over,  thou 
and  all  thy  slaves,  to  the  servants  of  Solomon,  and  hurled 
into  the  lowest  dungeons  of  Caucasus  !" 

While  Habib  pronounced  this  command,  he  twisted  the 
hairs  about  the  fins  of  the  whale.  The  enormous  mass 
made  an  effort  as  if  alive  ;  but  it  was  not  repeated.  The 
hairs  of  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  suddenly  disap- 
peared, and  were,  no  doubt,  employed  as  the  hero  had  or- 
dered. "My queen  is  safe,"  said  Habib  to  Ilbaccaras;  "let 
me  now  have  the  happiness  of  seeing  her;  conduct  me,  1 
pray  thee,  to  her  presence." 

While  the  Arabian  knight  was  taking  measures  to  se- 
cure the  tranquillity  of  Dorathil-goase  and  her  subjects, 
preparations  were  made  in  the  palace,  and  in  the  city  of 
Medinaz-Il-ballor,  for  the  triumphant  entry  of  their  victo- 
rious deliverer  and  avenger,  who  was  soon  to  become  their 
sovereign.  The  lovely  queen  strove  to  divert  her  impa- 
tience and  tender  solicitude  by  making  Ilzaide  repeat 
whatever  she  knew  of  her  dear  knight ;  his  minutest  ac- 
tions, his  words,  and  even  the  most  trifling  circumstances 
that  the  young  lady  could  recollect  with  regard  to  him, 
were  eagerly  listened  to  by  the  queen. 

As  night  had  come  on,  Habib  was  conducted  to  his  apart- 
ment through  the  most  superb  illuminations.  The  royal 
magnificence  displayed  on  the  occasion  might  admit  of 
description  ;  but  words  are  insufficient  to  describe  the 
transports  of  joy  and  respectful  love  which  inspired  Ha- 
bib, or  the  tender  sensibility  of -the  young  and  beautiful 
queen.  Never  did  loVe  light  up  a  purer  flame,  never  did 
Fate  conjoin  two   hearts   more   perfectly   congenial.     So 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  485 

much  beauty,  so  many  virtues  and  accomplishments,  .vero 
scarce  ever  united  to  such  merit  and  valor. 

Habib  felt  an  ecstasy  of  joy,  and  declared  his  happiness 
10  be  complete.  Dorathil-goase,  who  was  no  less  pleased, 
exclaimed,  "  Have  I  then  no  more  to  offer  you,  my  dear 
Habib,  than  my  heart,  my  hand,  and  my  crown  ?  A  pocr 
recompense  these,  for  such  important  services,  and  for  the 
dangei's  you  have  encountered  for  my  sake  ?  A  reward 
how  inadequate  for  such  heroic  virtue!" 

The  evening  of  their  meeting  was  also  that  of  their 
nuptials.  The  same  night  that  had  brought  them  together 
as  happy  lovers,  also  witnessed  the  ceremony  which  per- 
petuated their  union  ;  and  the  morning  sun  beheld  the 
completion  of  their  felicity,  and  the  joy  of  the  whole  island 
of  Medinaz. 

But  the  happiness  of  Habib  did  not  make  him  forgetful 
of  the  obligations  he  had  come  under.  The  Prince  Dal- 
ilsha,  husband  to  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses,  still 
languished  in  the  dungeons  of  the  Black  Isle;  and  that 
unhappy  country,  though  no  longer  infested  with  the 
enormities  and  the  presence  of  Abarikaff,  was  still,  with- 
out doubt,  in  very  great  disorder. 

Habib  had  pledged  his  word  to  the  lady  of  the  beautiful 
tresses,  that  he  would  deliver  her  husband  from  his  op- 
pressor. He  is  destined  by  the  stars  to  establish  peace  in 
the  whole  dominions  of  Dorathil-goase;  nor  need  he  em- 
ploy other  means  than  those  which  fate  has  put  into  his 
hands,  to  pursue  and  accomplish  his  adventures. 

The  three  daughters  of  the  sea  were  in  the  palace  of 
Dorathil-goase,  who  had  loaded  them  with  favors,  when 
Habib  thus  addressed  the  eldest:  "We  have,"  said  he, 
"  some  vessels  here,  which  might  convey  us  to  the  Black 
Isle  ;  but  I  prefer  your  invention,  which  has  already  been 
so  serviceable  to  us.  When  an  affair  is  regulated  by  fate, 
its  accomplishment  is  often  made  to  depend  on  circum- 
stances so  trivial,  und  on  the  employment  of  means  ap- 
parently so  insignificant,  that  weak  man  knows  not  to 
what  he  should  attribute  the  success."  Endeavor  then, 
ladies,  I  pray  you,  to  find  our  raft,  if  it  be  n  H  easier  foi 


490  ARABIAN    NIGHTa'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

you  to  foim  another.  I  shall  never  be  at  ease  till  1  have 
dried  up  the  tears  of  the  lady  of  the.  beautiful  tresses,  ana 
till  I  have  removed  the  disorders  which  still  disturb  the 
repose  of  my  remaining  subjects  in  the  Black  Isle." 

The  three  sisters  received  this  proposal  with  joy.  They 
saw  themselves  associated  in  the  glory  of  Habib.  Ilzaide 
had  appeared  rather  dejected  since  the  marriage  of  the 
hero;  but  as  her  esteem  was  sincere,  she  still  loved  him 
with  all  her  heart,  though  she  saw  his  hand  bestowed  on 
another,  whose  superior  beauty  and  merit  she  could  not 
dispute. 

Habib  called  his  charming  queen  to  assist  at  the  council 
he  held  with  the  fair  companions  of  his  adventures ;  and 
it  was  resolved  that  they  should  set  out  on  their  journey 
as  soon  as  the  raft  was  ready.  Porathil-goase,  however, 
proposed  that  she  should  mount  on  her  roc,  and  hover 
about  the  raft  to  give  notice  in  case  of  the  approach  of 
danger.  Ubaccaras,  one  of  the  genii  who  was  most  at- 
tached to  her,  and  for  whom  she  had  the  greatest  esteem, 
together  with  two  other  genii,  wei*e  appointed  to  attend 
her  on  the  journey. 

Next  morning  the  raft  was  ready,  and  Habib  put  to  sea 
about  sunrise.  The  dolphins,  by  which  it  was  drawn, 
seemed  to  redouble  their  exertions  and  swiftness,  and  the 
coast  of  the  Black  Isle  soon  came  into  view.  Ubaccaras 
observed  with  pleasure,  and  made  the  queen  also  remark, 
that  the'  coast  was  entirely  free  from  those  black  vapors 
which  had  formerly  rendered  the  aspect  of  the  place  so 
dismal. 

Habib  landed  without  difficulty  or  opposition.  He  met 
only  with  a  few  of  the  wretched  and  half-starved  inhabi- 
tants wandering  about  the  shore.  He  called  them  to- 
gether, and  inquired  what  news  they  had  of  Abarikaff, 
their  tyrant.  "He  is  vanquished,"  said  they;  "at  least 
we  have  reason  to  think  so,  from  the  terrible  cries  of  his 
attendants.  'Twas  but  the  day  before  yesterday  we  were 
obliged  to  flee  to  the  mountains.  In  an  instant,  a  multi- 
tude of  the  most  hideous  sea-monsters  had  covered  the 
ccast.     Their  fury  was  inconceivable ;  they  fought,  and 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  491 

core  each  other  in  pieces,  and  the  sand  on  the  shore  is  yel 
stained  with  their  blood.  We,  who  have  been  so  long  t  ae 
unhappy  slaves  of  those  monsters,  were  glad  to  escape 
their  fury,  and  to  turn  our  eyes  from  a  spectacle  so  hor- 
rible. Their  roaring,  their  yells,  reiterated  by  numerous 
echoes,  still  resounded  in  our  ears  and  continued  to  terrify 
us,  when  suddenly  we  thought  we  saw  a  glance  of  light 
ning,  and  the  whole  noise  ceased.  We  passed  the  night 
in  the  greatest  disquiet  and  in  continual  alarm,  from  the 
impression  of  terror  which  still  remained  on  our  minds; 
but  this  morning  we  could  perceive  nothing  else  but  the 
infectious  vapors  that  arose  from  the  blood  which  those 
monsters  had  shed.  Had  it  not  been  dried  up  by  the  sun 
and  happily  driven  off  by  the  wind,  the  island  might  have 
been  rendered  uninhabitable." 

While  Habib  held  this  conference  with  the  inhabitants, 
the  roc  hovered  over  the  island  ;  and  the  unhappy  people, 
terrified  by  so  many  prodigies,  lifted  their  eyes  toward 
that  object  with  an  air  of  consternation  and  solicitude. 
But  the  knight  removed  their  fears.  "You  see  nothing 
here,"  said  he,  "  that  should  alarm  you.  I  am  the  hus- 
band of  Dorathil-goase,  your  queen.  The  object  you  see 
in  the  air,  is  the  roc,  on  whose  back  your  queen,  my  royal 
consort,  is  seated ;  she  comes  with  me  to  afford  you  that 
assistance  which  you  need  so  much  at  present,  and  to  es- 
tablish peace  and  good  order  among  you.  But,"  asked  he, 
"where  is  Abarikatf's  palace?" 

"  Sir,"  answered  the  inhabitants,  "  we  are  ourselves  at  a 
loss  what  to  think  on  the  subject.  It  stood  here,  on  this 
plain,  and  now  we  cannot  discover  the  least  vestige  of  it. 
It  assumed  various  fantastic  shapes,  and  changed  its  form 
almost  every  day.  When  it  was  on  the  land,  it  sometimes 
looked  like  a  fierce  mastiff  of  enormous  size  ;  in  the  air,  it 
usually  had  the  appearance  of  a  prodigious  bird,  and  in  the 
sea  it  resembled  a  whale." 

"  He  had  some  prisoners,  too,"  continued  Habib ;  "  what 
has  become  of  them?"  "Sir,"  answered  they,  "if  any 
persons  have  been  so  unhappy  as  to  be  detained  in  his 
gripe,  they  must  be  in  a  very  languishing  and  miserable 


492  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

fltate.     The  tyrant  would  not  suffer  them  to  die;  but  nei- 
ther would  he  allow  them  to  live." 

"1)0  you  know  the  prince  Dalilsha  ?"  resumed  Habib. 
*  We  have  heard  of  him,  sir.  He  was  loaded  with  chaina 
on  account  of  his  wife's  beautiful  hair,  which  tbe  tyrant 
and  his  attendants  wished  to  obtain ;  but  which  he  would 
never  consent  to  grant  them."  "  Go,"  said  Habib,  "  search 
for  him  everywhere.  I  shall  reward  the  man  who  discov- 
ers to  me  the  unfortunate  prince." 

The  inhabitants  obe}Ted,  and  soon  found  Dalilsha 
stretched  on  the  grass,  on  the  spot  where  the  dungeons 
formed  by  the  enchantments  of  Abarikaff  were  situated, 
near  his  palace.  They  instantly  made  a  sort  of  litter,  and 
bore  the  emaciated  prince  into  the  presence  of  Habib  and 
his  companions. 

The  daughters  of  the  sea  were  not  backward  in  afford- 
ing their  assistance  to  an  object  so  worthy  of  their  com- 
passion. Dorathil-goase  observed  from  her  elevation  the 
stir  which  this  affair  occasioned.  Curious  to  know  the 
cause,  and  secure  against  every  apprehension  of  danger 
by  the  presence  of  the  hero,  she  made  the  roc  to  descend 
near  the  busy  scene  which  had  attracted  her  attention 
She  immediately  joined  the  three  sisters  in  their  care  of 
the  unfortunate  prince.  Ubaccaras,  too,  offered  his  help; 
and  by  means  of  powerful  elixirs  they  so  far  restored  the 
husband  of  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses,  that  he  was 
able  to  rise  up  to  speak,  and  thank  his  benefactors  for 
their  good  offices. 

He  was  made  acquainted  with  the  happy  deliverance 
of  his  spouse,  and  of  his  subjects ;  he  learned  that  it  was 
owing  to  the  knight  who  stood  before  him,  and  who  was 
now  the  husband  of  Dorathil-goase  his  kinswoman.  He 
expressed  the  deepest  sense  of  gratitude  to  his  benefactors, 
and  the  joy  he  felt  at  seeing  them ;  he  added,  that  he  was 
impatient  to  fly  to  embrace  his  spouse. 

It  was  necessaiy,  in  the  meantime,  that  Dorathil-goase 
and  Habib  should  settle  the  government  of  the  Black 
Isle;  and  this  was  devolved  on  Ubaccaras.  Here  an 
Opportunity  was  offered  of  rewarding  the  dauglrers  of 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  403 

the  sea ;  and  the  Arabian  knight  accordingly  bestowed 
the  hand  of  the  eldest  on  the  new  viceroy.  Ilzaide,  with- 
out envying  the  good  fortune  of  her  sister,  rejoiced  at  the 
match.  She,  indeed,  thought  no  marriage  desirable  unless 
it  were  with  a  hero.  She  joined  heartily  in  the  mirth  and 
festivity  at  her  sister's  wedding,  without  losing  sight,  how- 
ever, of  her  favorite  project  of  espousing  none  but  a  brave 
knight. 

The  island  had  been  desolated  during  the  reism  of  the 
rebel  genii ;  and  the  nobles  assembled  in  order  to  concert 
with  their  new  chief  the  means  of  restoring  confidence 
and  happiness  to  the  people.  Dorathil-goase  having  taken 
these  precautions,  resolved,  that  in  the  course  of  visiting 
the  several  islands  under  her  dominion,  she  would  carry 
the  Prince  Dalilsha  to  the  Green  Island,  stopping,  as  he 
passed,  at  the  Blue  Isle,  in  order  that  when  he  joined  his 
6pouse  he  might  be  enabled  to  take  proper  measures  for 
re-establishing  an  intercourse  by  sea  between  those  islands. 

Next  morning  Habib  and  his  two  sisters  put  to  sea  on 
the  raft.  The  roc  ascended  into  the  air.  Dalilsha,  some- 
what recovered  from  his  long  and  severe  sufferings,  ac- 
companied the  queen  ;  and  the  rapidity  of  the  voyage  was 
favored  by  the  calms  which  prevailed  at  that  season. 

The  two  sovereigns  and  the  pinnce,  their  tributary,  found 
the  people  of  the  Blue  Isle  diligently  employed  in  rebuild- 
ing their  dwellings.  Anxious  to  guard  against  troubles  like 
those  which  they  had  so  frequently  experienced,  the  in- 
habitants wished  nothing  more  than  a  re-establishment 
of  those  wise  laws  by  which  they  were  governed  before 
the  rebellion. 

A  fisher's  boat,  the  only  vessel  in  the  Green  Island,  had 
been  dispatched  by  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  with 
an  assurance  that  she  would  soon  be  ready  to  divide  with 
their  friends  the  treasures  found  in  the  tyrant's  steel  cas- 
tle ;  and  that  she  only  waited  till  a  vessel  was  built  in 
which  she  might  venture  to  sea. 

Dalilsha   acknowledged   the   prudent   foresight   of  bin 
epouse.     Habib  and  Dorathil-goase  approved  of  it  no  less. 
aud  they  agreed  to  set  out  instantly  for  the  Green  Islaud 
42 


494  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

Now  were  the  tears  of  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses 
to  be  dried  up;  now  was  she  again  to  see  her  beloved  hus- 
band, who  had  been  so  cruelly  ravished  from  her.  The 
two  charming  cousins  embrace,  shed  tears  of  affection, 
and  their  valiant  deliverer  participates  in  their  tender 
emotions. 

It  was  next  resolved  to  visit  the  White  and  Yellow  Isles. 
The  two  kinswomen  were  inseparable,  and  this  seems  to 
have  been  a  condition  agreed  upon  at  undertaking  the 
voyage. 

When  the  traveller  arrived  at  the  White  Isle,  Dorathil- 
goase,  who  was  constantly  inquiring  into  the  particulars 
of  Habih's  adventures  and  exploits,  turned  her  eye  toward 
the  summit  of  Mount  Caucasus,  which  was  partly  con- 
cealed in  the  clouds.  "  Is  it  not  there,"  said  she,  "  where 
dwells  our  faithful  II  Haboul  ?  Since  we  are  thus  far,  my 
dear  Habib,  and  since  we  have  discovered  .the  retreat  of 
our  best  friend,  how  can  we  return  without  paying  him 
the  tribute  of  gratitude  for  the  many  services  he  has  done 
us?  Leave  your  raft  to  the  daughters  of  the  sea,  mount 
with  me  upon  the  roc,  and  to  vary  our  pleasures,  let  ua 
now  go  and  taste  the  sweets  of  friendship."  The  desire 
of  the  lovely  queen  was  seconded  by  the  ardent  wishes 
of  her  husband,  and  the  journey  was  determined  on. 

As  the}T  approached  the  steep  cliffs  which  face  the  sea 
on  the  side  of  Mount  Caucasus,  Habib  pointed  out  to  his 
queen  the  place  where,  after  his  escape  from  the  caverns, 
he  received  assistance  from  the  daughters  of  the  sea.  The 
tender  Dorathil-goase  trembled  at  the  idea  of  her  lover's 
situation  in  such  a  horrible  abode.  While  they  hovered 
over  the  summit  of  Caucasus,  he  made  her  remark  a  pan 
of  the  deserts  which  he  had  traversed.  "  I  am  charmed," 
said  he,  "  that  my  queen  can  thus  see  at  wl  at  price  I  have 
purchased  my  present  happiness  ;  but  that  is  so  great  that 
I  now  forget  the  pains  and  trouble  it  has  cost  me." 

In  the  meantime,  the  vast  bird  glided  over  the  highest 
top  of  Caucasus,  and  lowering  his  flight,  set  down  the 
travellers  at  the  entrance  of  II  Haboul's  cavern.  Tnat 
good  genie   had   already  been  informed  that   something 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTA   NMEN1S  495 

appro ae tied  in  the  air,  which  seemed  to  come  toward  hia 
abode;  and  to  whom  else  could  such  a  visit  be  intended-, 
in  a  place  absolutely  inaccessible  to  the  human  race. 

He  stood  near  the  rock  which  concealed  the  entrance  to 
his  cavern.  According  to  his  custom,  he  perfumed  the  air 
with  a  pan  of  incense,  which,  by  enchantment,  mitigated 
the  rigor  of  the  climate  in  that  region  of  eternal  frost. 
He  was  soon  informed  by  one  of  his  servants,  that  Habib 
and  Dorathil-goase  were  the  guests  he  was  to  entertain. 
This  also  made  him  acquainted  with  the  union  of  those 
lovers. 

He  came  up  to  receive  the  queen,  assisted  her  to  descend 
from  her  roc,  affectionately  pressed  the  hand  of  Habib 
expressed  his  satisfaction  at  seeing  Dalilsha  and  his  spouse, 
made  the  whole  company  enter  into  the  interior  part  of 
his  dwelling,  and  seated  them  at  a  table  already  covered 
for  them. 

The  roc,  Avhich  had  been  bred  on  Caucasus,  was  no 
stranger  in  this  place.  II  Haboul  soon  learned  the  prin- 
cipal events  of  the  successful  expedition  of  his  young  dis- 
ciple against  the  revolted  genii.  He  already  knew  the 
greater  part  of  them.  The  gates  of  tl>e  cavern,  which 
faced  the  sea,  had  been  for  some  time  opened  every  hour 
for  the  reception  of  prisoners,  who  were  sent  in  the  name 
of  Habib.  The  criminal  Abarikaff  and  all  the  revolted 
chiefs  were  among  the  number. 

When  he  had  learned  from  his  guest  everything  he  had 
thought  worthy  of  inquiry,  when  they  had  all  enjoyed 
the  pleasures  of  friendship  and  mutual  confidence,  he  con- 
ducted Dorathil-goase  and  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses 
to  a  commodious  apartment  fitted  up  for  their  reception. 
He  then  took  aside  Habib  and  Dalilsha,  and  thus  addressed 
the  former  :  "  My  dear  pupil,  for  I  must  henceforth  esteem 
it  an  honor  to  have  been  your  instructor,  you  have  hith- 
erto acquitted  yourself  well  in  the  noble  though  laborious 
parts  which  fate  has  allotted  to  you.  What  remains  for  you 
now  to  perform  is  only  to  satisfjT  the  feelings  of  duty  and 
natural  affection.  I  must,  therefore,  make  you  acquainted 
with  a  part  of  the  history  of  your  family  which  will  no 
dowbt  be  very  afflicting  to  you." 


496  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

Habib  looked  on  him  with  astonishment  and  anxiety 
'  Continue,"  said  the  genie,  "  to  show  yourself  wortby  of 
Dorathil-goase,  of  the  great  Salamis  your  father,  of  tbe 
favors  of  Heaven,  and  of  the  peculiar  protection  of  the 
Prophet  Solomon.  Arm  j^ourself  with  new  courage,  for- 
tify yourself  against  an  excess  of  sensibility.  He  alone 
who  can  bravely  suffer  under  misfortune,  is  fitted  .to  en- 
counter and  surmount  difficulties." 

After  this  preamble,  II  Haboul  informed  Habib  of  the 
account  the  twenty  knights  had  given  to  Salamis  on  their 
return.  At  the  same  time  he  described  the  afflictions  and 
despair  of  his  tender  and  virtuous  parent  on  hearing  of 
the  death  of  a  beloved  son,  the  onty  hope  and  comfort  of 
his  declining  years.  "  His  grief,"  said  he,  "  was  so  severe*, 
that  his  eyes  became  two  fountains  of  tears,  the  acrimony 
of  which  soon  extinguished  his  sight. 

"  Being  unable,  by  reason  of  this  defect,  to  exert  his 
wonted  activity  and  courage,  a  tributary  prince,  whom  he 
had  formerly  subdued  by  his  arms,  raised  the  standard  of 
rebellion  against  his  master,  and  engaged  others  in  the 
revoli.  Those  who  had  remained  faithful  to  him  were 
defeated  in  several  battles ;  and  as  he  has  received  little 
aid  from  his  allies,  he  is  now  in  danger  of  falling  into  tho 
hands  of  the  enemy." 

While  II  Haboul  made  his  recital,  Habib  felt  the  strong- 
est emotions ;  for  his  soul  was  swayed  by  the  most  vio- 
lent as  well  as  the  noblest  passions;  but  he  suppressed  his 
feelings,  being  already  armed  against  them. 

"  Command  me  !  my  dear  tutelar}^  genie,"  cried  _  he, 
"and  you  shall  see  then  that  I  still  know  my  duty." 
"Mark  then  what  I  shall  say,"  answered  II  Haboul 
"You  have  an  easy  mode  of  travelling,  and  you  must  set 
out  for  Arabia  immediately.  Your  father,  it  is  true,  has 
lost  his  sight,  but  his  eyes  are  not  entirely  destroyed. 
The  remedy  by  which  they  will  be  restored  must  be  ap- 
plied by  the  same  hand  that  occasioned  the  misfortune, 
that  is,  the  hand  of  Dorathil-goase. 

"  This  secret  remedy  is  to  be  found  among  the  treasures 
of  Solomon,  and  there  you  must  go  and  search  for  it.     It 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  491 

is  now  neither  dangerous  nor  difficult  for  you  to  approach 
them.  The  word  written  on  the  talisman  is  the  only  key 
necessary;  besides,  the  Laborer  of  the  Prophet  has  un- 
doubted privilege  of  being  admitted  to  his  shrine." 

"But,"  said  Habib,  "if  I  depart  with  my  queen,  what 
must  become  of  Dalilsha  and  his  spouse?  How  can  they 
attend  us,  while  their  presence  is  so  necessary  in  their 
own  kingdom  ;  and  who  could  quiet  the  fears  of  the  people- 
in  mine,  during  our  absence?" 

"  When  you  advanced  toward  Caucasus,  in  your  distress, 
my  dear  Habib,  how  did  I  contrive  to  lend  you  my  aid? 
The  same  means  still  remain  with  me.  I  can  send  back 
the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  and  her  husband,  in  safety 
to  the  Green  Island.  The  same  slave  of  the  Prophet  who 
re-conducts  them  on  the  roc,  will  convey  information  con- 
cerning you  to  Illabousatrous  your  grandfather,  and  to 
your  viziers.  You  may,  therefore,  proceed  with  tranquil- 
lity on  your  way  to  Arabia.  I  cannot  now  accompany 
you  thither.  My  duty  retains  me  in  this  place,  and  my 
business  has  been  more  than  doubled  since  your  expedi- 
tions. I  found  it,  indeed,  altogether  impossible  to  com- 
fort your  affectionate  father,  bj7  telling  him  what  news  1 
could  of  your  exploits. 

" If  you -are  willing,"  continued  II  Haboul,  "to  follow 
my  advice,  you  will  not  alight  at  first  in  your  father's 
territories.  You  will  conduct  your  spouse  to  the  little 
cottage  in  the  mountain,  which  was  once  our  retreat.  As 
nothing  there  eould  excite  the  avarice  of  the  plunderers, 
it  has  escaped  their  fury  during  the  rebellion.  The  furni- 
ture which  Dorathil-goase  carries  along  with  her  travel- 
ling pavilion,  will  serve  for  her  accommodation  ;  nor  need 
you  fear  that  the  granddaughter  of  a  genie  will  suffer 
from  want,  where  there  is  such  plenty  of  fish,  game,  and 
delicious  fruits. 

"  You  will  be  under  the  necessity,"  added  the  genie, 
"  when  you  enter  the  treasury  of  Solomon,  there  to  deposit 
the  scimitar  which  you  were  permitted  to  use  in  subduing 
his  enemies.  It  is  not  an  ordinary  weapon  ;  and  I  know 
you  desire  no  other  advantage  over  enemies  who  are  your 
42  *  2  a 


498  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTER!  vINMENTS. 

equfds,  than  such  as  may  be  obtained  by  prudence,  expe- 
rience, and  supei'ior  courage.  But  you  must  not  venture 
intc  the  camp  unarmed,  for  hostilities  may  perhaps  be  un- 
avoidable. I  will,  therefore,  present  you  with  two  com- 
plete suits  of  armor,  formed  in  the  Parthian  manner,  and 
resembling  those  I  wore  when  I  appeared  in  front  of  your 
camp ;  to  this  shall  be  added  the  trappings  and  coverlets 
for  your  horses;  and  of  these  things  you  can  make  wnat- 
ever  use  your  prudence  may  suggest." 

"My  dear  II  Haboul,"  said  Habib,  "my  heart  yearns 
toward  my  father.  Henceforth  I  shall  hold  my  life  of  no 
estimation  till  I  have  brought  him  relief.  Show  me,  I 
pray  you,  the  path  which  may  conduct  me  to  the  talisman, 
that  shall  restore  sight  to  the  author  of  my  days.  A  mo- 
ment's delay  would  pain  me  to  the  heart ;  and  I  am  sure 
that  Dorathil-goase  will  participate  in  my  impatience." 

The  charming  queen  was,  no  doubt,  well  disposed  to 
enter  into  the  views  of  a  husband  to  whom  she  was  en- 
tirely devoted,  and  in  whose  concerns  she  was  so  deeply 
interested.  Preparations  were  therefore  made  for*  the 
journey. 

Habib  descended  into  the  cavern,  where  were  deposited 
the  arms  of  Solomon.  None  presumed  to  dispute  his  en- 
trance. When  he  approached  the  trophy  of  arms,  to 
which  he  was  to  affix  the  scimitar,  he  observed  on  the 
casque  two  beautiful  oval  stones,  of  a  flat  shape,  which 
were  connected  by  a  gold  wire,  and  of  a  size  sufficient  to 
cover  the  eyes  of  a  man.  His  sight  was  dazzled  with  their 
lustre.  He  knew  them  to  be  the  talisman  for  which  he 
looked  ;  he  took  them  up  and  retired,  regretting  that  he 
could  no  longer  remain  in  a  place  where  he  was  likely  to 
reap  so  much  instruction.  His  sense  of  filial  duty,  at  that 
moment,  suppressed  his  curiosity.  His  only  wish  was  to 
see  Dalilsba  and  his  spouse  depart,  that  he  might  fly  in- 
stantly to  gratify  those  feelings  of  natural  aflection  by 
which  he  was  irresistibly  impelled. 

But  one  care  still  remained  to  make  him  ur.easy.  He 
had  left  the  two  daughters  of  the  sea  in  the  White  Island. 
Ho,  therefore,  engaged  the  prince  and  his  fair  spouse  to 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'   EN  rERTAINHENTP.  499 

l.alt  at  that  island,  in  order  to  carry  the  two  ladies  along 
with  them. 

Next  morning,  at  daybreak,  the  two  rocs  ascended  into 
the  air,  and  took  opposite  courses. 

Toward  the  evening  of  the  third  day,  the  children  of 
Salamis  came  in  sight  of  his  tents.  The  prodigious  bird, 
on  which  they  sat,  alighted  near  the  palisadoes  which 
guarded  the  entrance  to  the  little  cottage  formed  by  Ha- 
bib  and  II  Haboul  as  a  place  of  retreat. 

The  happy  pair  entered  it.  The  genie,  who  guided  the 
roc,  unloaded  the  animal,  turned  him  out  to  search  for 
food,  and  instinct  taught  him  to  find  it.  Habib  and  Dora- 
thil-goase  impatiently  waited  the  return  of  day;  and  as 
soon  as  it  appeared,  they  lost  no  time  in  proceeding  to 
their  purpose. 

It  was  thought  necessary  that  Habib  should  be  disguised 
when  he  entered  his  father's  tents,  that  he  might  not  too 
suddenly  surprise  his  fond  parents.  He  soon  obtained  a 
disguise  suitable  to  his  design. 

He  accidentally  found,  among  his  ancient  utensils,  a 
pair  of  old  sandals  in  which  he  used  to  work;  these  were 
his  shoes.  The  skin  of  a  goat  flung  over  his  shoulders,  and 
another  girt  about  his  loins,  made  up  his  dress. 

He  stained  his  neck  and  face  with  a  yellow-colored 
earth,  which  concealed  the  natural  tint  of  his  skin ;  he 
disordered  his  hair  and  his  beard;  and,  having  a  dagger 
in  his  girdle,  a  staff  in  his  hand,  and  a  basket  of  fruit  on 
his  arm,  he  passed  the  intrenchments,  and  arrived  at  the 
entrance  to  the  tents  which  belonged  to  his  mother's  slave. 

He  there  espied  a  large  flat  stone,  on  which  he  sat  down, 
and,  placing  his  basket  of  fruit  between  his  feet,  he  leaned 
forward  as  if  asleep. 

Several  slaves  passed  and  repassed  ;  but  he  had  not  yet 
seen  her  to  whom  he  intended  to  communicate  his  secret. 
At  last  she  came,  and  he  called  her  by  name,  for  she  had 
been  his  governess:  "  Esek !  Esek!"  "You  kno*  me, 
then,  young  man,"  said  the  good  old  lady.  "Yes,"  an- 
swered Habib ;  "  and  if  you  will  follow  me  behind  that 
great  tree,  I  '11  tell  you  news  that  will  rejoice  our  masteri, 


500  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMEVTS. 

Put  my  basket  into  your  tent;  and  if  you  are  not  satisfied 
with  my  discourse,  both  it  and  the  fruit  it  contains  shall 
be  yours." 

The  old  woman,  more  from  curiosity  than  avarice,  took 
the  fruit,  and  retired  with  him  behind  the  tree,  which  was 
close  by  the  back  of  the  tent,  and  concealed  them  from 
the  view  of  passengers  during  their  conversation.  "  Come," 
said  she,  "  what  have  you  got  to  tell  me?  pray,  begin." 

"  Will  you  promise,"  said  he,  "in  case  what  I  may  say 
shall  give  you  extreme  pleasure,  that  you  will  not  cry  out, 
nor  make  the  least  noise?" 

"  Very  fine,  indeed,"  said  the  old  lady;  "  you  are  then  so 
eloquent,  are  you?  One  could  not  guess  it,  truly,  from 
your  cloak,  or  your  sandals.  Pray,  have  you  often  made 
people  cry,  only  by  talking  to  them  ?" 

"  No,  good  woman  ;  but  if  you  don't  take  care,  you  will 
be  the  first."  "  But,"  thinks  she,  "  how  comes  it  that  this 
vagrant,  with  his  basket  of  plums,  talks  so  familiarly  with 
me,  and  calls  me  good  woman,  yet  I  am  not  offended?" 
"  Have  done,"  said  she,  aloud;  "  tell  me  quickly  this  secret, 
which  you  say  will  give  me  so  much  pleasure."  "Did  you 
love  poor  Habib  ? "  "  Then  you  come  here  to  make  me 
weep  ?"  "  On  the  contrary,  if  you  love  him,  be  comforted, 
for  he  still  lives." 

While  he  uttered  these  words,  he  seized  her  by  the 
hands  and  prevented  her  crying  out. 

"Silence,  silence,  my  good  old  friend  !  make  no  bustle  • 
I  .myself  am  Habib.  I  will  show  you  the  mark  on  my 
neck,  and  the  other  on  my  breast;  I  will  sing  you  the 
little  song  with  which  I  used  to  entertain  you." 

"How!  how!"  cried  the  old  governess  in  transports, 
when  she  heard  the  sound  of  his  well-known  voice ;  but 
Habib  suppressed  her  cries  by  putting  his  hand  uj)on  her 
mouth. 

"Beware,"  said  he  ;  "you*  will  kill  my  mother  with  sur- 
prise. I  come  to  deliver  my  father  from  the  hands  of  his 
enemies ;  but  my  design  would  be  defeated,  were  they  to 
discover  that  I  am  here. 

"Be  silent,  then;   for  God's  sake,  be  silent,  my  dear 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  501 

governess.  Show  me  where  I  may  conceal  myself.  If  1 
cannot  enter  by  the  door,  I  will  find  a  passage  some  other 
way.  1  must  instruct  you  in  what  manner  you  are  to 
communicate  the  news  of  my  arrival,  so  as  to  occasion  no 
sudden  surprise  to  my  father  and  mother.  It  is  necessary, 
too,  that  it  should  remain  a  profound  secret  among  us  four." 

The  faithful  slave  of  Amirala  was  almost  suffocated  with 
her  tears.  Unable  to  utter  a  syllable,  she  could  only  lead 
her  dear  Habib  into  her  tent,  where  no  person  happened 
to  be  at  the  time.  He  there  taught  her  how  to  prepare 
his  mother  for  receiving  the  glad  news,  and  concealed 
himself  in  the  best  manner  he  could.  His  governess,  in 
the  meantime,  went  to  watch  an  opportunity  of  speaking 
to  Amirala,  who  scarcely  ever  quitted  Salamis. 

Habib  remained  alone,  indulging  melancholy  reflections, 
and  comparing  the  formidable  state  of  his  father's  camp  at 
the  time  he  left  it,  with  its  present  pitiful  condition. 

Scarce  a  fourth  part  remained.  He  was  no  longer  con- 
tented with  ordinary  barriers ;  he  was  surrounded  with 
strong  intrenchments.  Whatever  military  operations 
were  going  on  seemed  to  be  merely  defensive. 

It  is  impossible  to  describe  the  impatience  of  the  hero 
to  embrace  and  console  his  afflicted  parents ;  to  restore 
sight  to  the  honored  author  of  his  life ;  and  to  punish 
those  mean  and  ungrateful  rebels  who,  taking  advantage 
of  their  sovereign's  infirmity,  had  throwm  oif  his  allegiance, 
and  even  threatened  his  personal  liberty. 

Happily,  those  painful  reflections  were  soon  interrupted 
by  the  return  of  the  old  governess. 

Sleep  had  for  some  time  suspended  the  cares  of  the  ven- 
erable emir;  and  Amirala  retired  into  Jaer  own  tent  to 
taue  a  little  refreshment  and  repose. 

Her  faithful  slave  followed  her.  When  they  were  alone, 
"  Madam,"  said  she,  "  I  know  you  put  some  confidence  in 
my  dreams.  I  have  long  had  none  but  such  as  were 
unhappy,  and  those,  alas,  have  been  too  often  verified. 
My  last,  however,  has  filled  my  mind  with  comfort  aud 
hope. 

"  The   twenty  knights  who  accompanied  our  child  to 


»02  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  desert,  have  been  first  cowards,  and  afterwarl  liars 
Our  dear  Habib  is  not  dead.  He  is  well.  1  kissed  che 
marks  he  bears  on  his  neck  and  breast." 

"And  will  your  dreaming  that  you  kissed  those  marks," 
cried  Amirala,  "make  the  knights  liars,  and  restore  our 
child  to  life?" 

"  O,  madam,"  answered  the  good  woman,  "I  embraced 
him  in  my  arms,  and  he  pressed  me  to  his  heart,  which 
beat  very  quick ;  it  was  not  the  heart  of  a  dead  man, 
madam,  I  assure  you."      * 

''But  where,  when  did  you  dream  all  this?" 

"  Just  now,  madam.  Drink  this  cup  of  cold  water,  and 
I  will  tell  you  the  rest." 

Amirala  drank  the  water.  "  Well,"  said  the  old  woman, 
"there  will  be  no  danger  now  to  speak  plainly;  but  be- 
ware, madam,  of  an  excess  of  joy. 

"Know  then,  that  I  did  not  dream;  I  saw  him.  1 
embraced  our  Habib  himself.  He  is  here,  and  resides  in 
what  he  calls  his  little  mountain  retreat.  There  stands 
a  basket  of  plums  which  he  has  brought  from  thence. 
He  came  disguised  into  the  camp  like  a  poor  peasant, 
with  his  face  bedaubed  with  clay.  He  is  resolved  to 
make  himself  known  to  none  but  his  father  and  us.  He 
told  me  it  was  for  the  good  of  his  father's  affairs  to  keep 
his  arrival  secret.  Our  Habib,  you  know,  is  wise  ;  his 
advice  must  be  followed." 

Notwithstanding  the  precaution  of  the  glass  of  water, 
Amirala's  spirits  began  to  fail.  She  cast  her  eyes  on  the 
basket,  and  could  only  utter  these  words  :  "  Here  are 
plums  from  his  garden  !"  The  governess  then  made  her 
smell  some  fragrant  essences.  "  Take  courage,  madam," 
said  she,  "  much  happiness  awaits  us,  which  may  compen 
sate  our  past  sufferings  ;  my  Habib  told  .me  so.  Your 
eyes  shall  this  night  behold  the  heavens,  and  you  shall 
not  there  find  a  star  that  is  not  for  us  !" 

"But  where,  where  is  he?"  said  Amirala,  when  she 
recovered  the  use  of  speech.  "In  my  tent,  behind  the 
great  bulrush  hamper,  which  contained  the  stuffs  you 
received  from   Chiraz.     Take   heart,  madam,  come  with 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  503 

rac  and  see  him.  AVe  will  shut  ourselves  up  with  him, 
we  will  comb  his  hair;  we  will  wash  his  face;  and  I  am 
much  deceived  if  we  do  not  find  him  more  beautiful  than 
ever." 

Amirala  made  trial  of  her  strength.  She  was  conducted 
with  difficulty  to  the  tent  of  the  kind  governess.  There, 
after  using  every  necessary  precaution  to  prevent  being 
discovered  or  surprised,  the  hamper  taken  down,  and 
Habib  himself  prostrated  at  the  feet  of  his  mother,  who 
was  seated  on  the  governess's  couch ;  the  essences  were 
again  bad  recourse  to  for  reviving  the  spirits  of  both  the 
mother  and  the  son,  who  had  mutually  sunk  into  a  trance. 

When  they  had  somewhat  recovered,  "Ah  !  my  dear  Ha- 
bib," cried  Amirala,  "  by  what  favor  of  gracious  Heaven 
are  you  thus  restored  to  my  arms?  " 

"  By  that,  madam,  which  was  promised  me  by  the  stars. 
You  see  before  you  the  husband  of  Dorathil-goase  —  the 
king  of  the  Seven  Seas ;  the  instrument,  though  unworthy, 
of  the  great  Solomon ;  the  conqueror  of  the  enemies  of 
God  and  his  prophet.  But  1  would  only  bewail  my  suc- 
cesses, did  I  not  bring  with  me  a  physician  who  is  able, 
in  a  moment,  to  restore  sight  to  my  father." 

"  Bestore  the  sight  of  Salamis!"  exclaimed  Amirala. 
"  Yes,  madam,"  answered  Habib;  "  and  that  physician  is 
my  wife  herself,  commissioned  by  the  decrees  of  Heaven 
to  perform  this  miracle." 

"  Your  wife  1"  returned  Amirala;  "  and  where  is  she?" 
"In  the  cottage  in  my  garden.  She  waits  for  an  Arabian 
dress.  You  will,  therefore,  order  two  dresses  to  be  pre- 
pared :  one  for  her,  under  which  she  may  conceal  her  sex, 
and  another  for  me,  in  which  I  may  pass  through  the 
camp  without  being  discovered. 

"  It  is  proposed,  madam,  to  introduce  to  my  father,  in 
the  view  of  the  whole  camp,  an  Arabian  physician  with 
his  slave.  Order,  then,  the  most  trusty  of  the  emir's 
grooms,  and  he  in  whose  prudence  you  can  repose  the 
most  confidence,  to  follow  me  to  my  retreat  with  three 
mules.  Let  him  take  care  that  the  barriers  be  left  open 
for  him  on  his  return. 


504  "     ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

"  You  will  inform  your  slaves  that  you  have  called  a 
physician,  for  whose  accommodation  a  tent  must  be  pro- 
vided this  night.  We  will  arrive  about  sunset,  and  we 
shall  need  no  other  than  my  kind  governess  to  serve  us. 
"  Till  that  time,  madam,  you  may  prepare  my  father, 
by  relating  such  stories  as  may  raise  in  his  mind  some 
hopes  of  my  safety.  Inspire  him  with  confidence  in  the 
skill  of  an  Arabian  physician,  Avho  requires  no  more  than 
to  see  his  eyes,  to  touch  them  with  his  fingers;  and  who 
engages,  by  that  means,  in  a  moment  to  restore  his  sight. 
.For  my  own  part,  I  will  remain  concealed  till  after  the 
operation." 

Everything  was  executed  according  to  Habib's  direc- 
tions ;  he  instantly  set  out  for  his  retreat,  followed  by  his 
father's  groom  with  three  mules.  He  had  led  the  way  in 
silence ;  but  when  they  approached  the  palisadoes,  he 
called  to  the  man  by  his  name.  The  groom  seemed  struck 
by  the  sound  of  his  voice.  "  Fear  not,"  said  be,  "  I  speak 
to  you  with  Habib's  voice,  for  I  am  Habib  himself.  When 
you  come  into  the  cottage,  you  may  find  what  may  sur- 
prise you  more.  You  will  there  see  the  queen,  my  royal 
spouse.  Prepare  yourself,  then,  to  execute  whatever  we 
shall  command  for  the  service  of  the  emir,  my  father." 

The  groom  could  scarce  persuade  himself  that  he  was 
awake ;  but  the  work  he  was  ordered  to  perform  soon 
convinced  him  that  he  was  not  under  the  illusion  of  a 
dream. 

Habib  commanded  him  to  load  two  of  the  mules  with 
the  armor  and  the  horse-trappings  which  he  had  received 
from  the  hand  of  II  Haboul.  He  and  Dorathil-goase  then 
put  on  their  disguise. 

The  young  physician  mounted  the  best  mule  ;  her  slave, 
on  foot,  conducted  one  of  the  loaded  mules,  and  the  other 
was  led  by  the  groom. 

The  armor  was  covered  with  those  skins  of  lions  and 
tigers  which  had  served  as  furniture  in  the  cottage ;  and 
this  little  troop,  in  the  dusk  of  the  evening,  presented 
themselves,  and  were  admitted  within  the  lines  of  the 
camp. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  505 

In  the  meantime,  Amirala  and  the  governess  attended 
Salamis,  who  was  now  awake;  they  addressed  him  in  a 
tone  less  mournful  than  usual;  and  the  worthy  emir  was 
comforted  by  the  cheerfulness  of  their  discourse. 

"  G-od  has  been  pleased  to  humble  me,"  said  he ;  "I  was 
too  proud  of  his  gifts,  and  all  have  been  withdrawn,  that 
I  may  learn  my  own  insignificance.  Yet  I  bless  his  name, 
since  you,  my  dear  Amirala,  seem  as  resigned  to  our  des- 
tiny as  I  am  myself! 

"  Deprived  as  I  am  of  power  and  glory,  and  cut  off  from 
the  enjoj'ment  of  light,  t  can  brave  every  danger  and  even 
the  slavery  with  which  I  am  threatened,  while  you  assist 
me  in  supporting  my  misfortunes.  My  enemies  no  longer 
fear  my  arms ;  but  they  will  be  pursued  by  the  vengeance 
of  the  great  prophet,  from  which  they  cannot  escape.  We 
shall,  at  last,  rejoin  our  dear  Habib,  and  be  happy." 

"  Yes,  yes,"  cried  the  governess;  "  there  is  no  doubt  of 
it,  after  the  dream  both  my  lady  and  I  have  had.  I  am 
sure  we  shall  rejoin  our  dear  Habib." 

"  What  dream?"  demanded  Salamis.  "Who  ever  heard 
of  two  persons  having  the  same  dream  ?" 

"  We  have,  however,  both  dreamed  the  same  thing," 
answered  the  governess,  "  and  that  exactly  in  each  par- 
ticular. We  have  seen  Habib.  He  was  beautiful,  was  a 
king,  and  had  a  queen  charming  as  the  houris.  He  still 
loved  -his  father  and  us  with  all  the  tenderness  of  his 
nature.  He  hoped  soon  to  come  here,  and  show  himself 
to  you,  and " 

"  Show  himself  to  me!"  interrupted  Salamis;  "that  can 
never  be,  at  least  in  this  world ;  for  my  eyes,  alas,  are 
shut  forever!" 

"  You  may,  perhaps,  be  agreeably  deceived,  my  lord," 
returned  the  governess,  "as  to  this  particular.  We  havo 
heard  of  a  wonderful  physician  whose  skill  is  so  great 
that,  if  the  eye-ball  but  remain  entire,  he  can  restore  the 
sight  in  a  moment,  and  without  occasioning  the  smallest 
pain." 

"I  have  already  been  abused  by  quacks  and  astrolo- 
gers," cried  Salamis.  "He  is  neither  one  nor  t'other,'' 
43 


50B  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS- 

said  she.  "He  offers  to  pledge  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold 
before  undertaking  the  cure.  If  he  does  not  succeed,  or 
if  he  does  the  smallest  injury,  he  is  willing  to  forfeit 
the  sum." 

"Let  him  come,  then,"  said  Salamis.  "I  will  be  glad 
to  gain  a  thousand  pieces  of  gold,  that  I  may  distribute 
them  among  my  poor  subjects,  who  have  been  plundered 
of  all  their  flocks.  It  will  only  cost  me  a  little  patience, 
and  the  empiric  will  be  justly  punished  for  his  vain  pre- 
tensions." 

This  compliance  on  the  part  of  Salamis  was  all  that 
Amirala  wanted.  Habib  and  Dorathil-goase  arrive ;  are 
introduced  into  the  apartment  of  the  emir,  and  the  groom 
there  places  the  two  suits  of  armor,  covering  them  with 
the  skins  in  which  they  have  been  wrapped. 

The  operation  on  the  emir's  eyes  is  now  to  be  begun. 
But  no  strangers  are  suffered  to  intrude.  A  supper  is 
already  prepared,  which  is  to  be  seiwed  up  by  the  gov- 
erness alone.  The  groom  stands  as  sentinel  at  the  door, 
to  restrain  the  impertinent  inquiries  of  the  crowd. 

Amirala  announces  to  her  husband  the  arrival  of  the 
physician,  and  at  the  same  time  puts  into  his  hand  a  purse 
filled  with  gold. 

"  Weigh  it,''  says  she  to  the  emir  ;  "  satisfy  yourself  that 
nothing  is  wanting  of  the  sum,  and  keep  it  in  your  pos- 
session, to  make  sure  of  it,  in  case  the  operation  should 
fail. 

"  But  as  you  are  a  sovereign,  this  generous  physician  is 
unwilling  that  you  should  hazard  your  person  in  the  view 
of  so  paltry  a  compromise  ;  that  the  bargain  ma}T  be  more 
equal,  he  entreats  that  you  will  suffer  him  to  pledge  his 
head  for  his  success." 

"  My  dear  Amirala,"  says  Salamis,  "would  you  have  me 
dream,  as  you  and  the  good  old  woman  there  do  so  often? 
Would  you  make  it  a  dream  for  three?"  "I  hope,"  an- 
swered she,  "my  honored  emir,  it  shall  soon  be  a  dream 
for  five !  the  most  delightful,  the  truest  dream  imaginable. 
But  here  comes  the  physician." 

"Come  near  me,"  said  the  emir.     "Is  it  true  that  you 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  5U7 

are  so  certain  of  my  cure?"  "As  certain  as  of  my  exist- 
enee."  "Ah  !  you  have  the  voice  of  an  angel,  not  of  a  man 
Are  you  the  messenger  of  Heaven,  who  brings  me  so  un- 
expected a  favor  ?  for  it  is  from  Heaven  alone  I  can  hope 
for  such  a  miracle."  "  You  are  mistaken  as  to  the  nature 
of  my  essence,  but  you  conjecture  aright  as  to  my  com- 
mission." "  I  know  not  how  it  is,  but  your  words  enchant 
me,  and  shed  a  ray  of  hope  on  my  soul.  Look  on  my 
eyes."  "  I  see  them.  Permit  me  to  touch  them,  and  for 
an  instant  to  apply  my  thumbs  upon  them."  "I  feel  an 
agreeable  warmth,  what  a  pleasing  sensation  !  some  happy 
change  has  taken  place,  which  is  communicated  to  every 
nerve,  and  my  whole  frame  is  invigorated " 

"  The  operation  is  finished,  my  lord.  Look  up  without 
fear.  The  rays  of  the  sun  will  no  longer  be  offensive  to 
your  eyes." 

"  O  heavens  !  I  see  !  "  cried  the  good  emir ;  and  before 
taking  notice  of  any  object  before  him,  he  fell  down  with 
his  face  to  the  ground,  and  thanked  God  for  his  deliverance. 

Having  finished  his  prayer,  he  arose  and  looked  around. 
"Where  is  this  physician?"  cried  he,  in  a  transport. 
"  Where  is  this  messenger  of  God  ?"  "  Here  I  am."  "  Di- 
vine creature  !  "  "I  am  not  divine,  honored  father ;  I  am 
Dorathil-goase,  your  daughter,  devoted  to  you  by  fate.  I 
am  the  wife  of  your  son  Habib."  "  Wife  of  Habib  !  draw 
near ;  — Amirala,  support  me  ;  —  my  son  is  married  ;  —  he 
lives !  Where,  where  is  he  ?  "  "At  your  feet ! "  cried  Ha- 
bib, embracing  his  knees. 

"  O  gracious  Heaven  !  "  exclaimed  Salamis,  "  thou  hast 
restored  my  strength ;  but  much  is  necessary  to  sustain 
this  excess  of  joy." 

He  remained  for  some  time  deprived  of  sense,  in  the 
arms  of  his  son  and  the  young  queen.  But  this  was  no 
more  than  a  momentary  crisis  of  tenderness,  which  gave 
?ent  to  the  torrent  which  soon  burst  from  his  eyes.  His 
tears  were  mingled  with  those  of  his  children  and  of  his 
wife  Amirala;  and  the  good  old  governess,  emboldened  by 
tho  warmth  cf  her  attachment,  presumed  to  ioin  in  the 
tender  scene. 


508  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

JSatural  affection  here  operated  so  powerfully  that,  foi 
some  time,  curiosity,  and  every  other  sentiment,  remained 
in  suspense. 

At  last,  Amirala  recollected  that  she  ought  to  offer  her 
guests  some  refreshment;  and  the  governess,  on  receiving 
her  orders,  prepared  to  serve  them. 

The  father  is  seated  at  table  between  his  two  children; 
Amirala  sits  opposite,  and  enjoys  the  inexpressible  felicity 
of  beholding  the  reunion  of  so  many  objects  of  her  love. 

For  a  long  time  her  breathing  had  been  interrupted  by 
continual  sighs ;  her  mouth  was  seldom  opened  but  to 
utter  a  complaint ;  her  heart  was  wrung  with  sorrow,  her 
mind  haunted  with  terrors.  She  shed  the  most  bitter 
tears;  was  dead  to  every  pleasure,  and  grief  preyed  on 
her  vitals.  Every  step  she  made  seemed  marked  with 
misfortune. 

In  a  moment  all  is  reversed.  The  flood  of  tears  that 
pours  from  her  eyes  is  a  delicious  enjoj^ment;  her  soul  is 
filled  with  enthusiastic  joy,  and  her  lips  can  give  it  utter- 
ance. 

"  Let  my  heart  taste  of  pleasure  ;  it  is  not  now  a  time 
to  resist  the  impressions  of  delight ;  let  my  heart  open  and 
furnish  an  abundance  of  tears  ! 

"When  each  tear  I  shed  was  accompanied  with  a  heavy 
groan,  who  could  have  persuaded  me  that  I  should  onp 
day  find  such  pleasure  in  weeping? 

"  O  laughter,  how  deceitful  art  thou !  Thou  canst  not 
express  the  joy  of  the  soul.  Thou  art  a  stranger  to  sweet 
sensibility.  Go,  distort  the  faces,  and  mark  the  insipid 
mirth  of  the  fools  who  court  thee ;  begone  from  those  who 
can  taste  the  tender  delight  of  weeping  ! 

"  Dorathil-goase  !  Habib  !  how  charming  are  your  tears  ! 
how  they  exait  every  beauty!  how  they  improve  every 
feature  of  those  angelic  faces  !" 

Amirala  might  have  proceeded  longer  in  the  language 
of  poetry ;  for  the  happiness  she  then  felt  had  inspired  her 
with  all  the  vivacity  of  youth ;  but  the  situation  of  the  ob- 
jects on  which  her  attention  was  fixed,  began  to  change. 
The  repast  was  short     the  governess  had  retired,  and  it 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  509 

was  now  time  that  Salamis  should  learn  from  his  son's 
own  mouth  in  what  manner  he  was  restored  to  him  by 
the  kindness  of  Heaven. 

The  young  hero  recounted  to  him  his  history,  from  the 
moment  he  set  out  on  the  expedition  to  Mount  Caucasus; 
he  described  the  behavior  of  the  twenty  knights  till  the 
instant  they  left  him  exposed  in  the  desert  to  the  rigors 
of  the  climate,  to  famine,  to  thirst,  and  to  rage  of  the 
ferocious  animals. 

He  described  all  his  exploits  in  the  most  natural  colors. 
Even  the  fault  he  termed  unpardonable  which  he  com- 
mitted before  leaving  the  caverns,  and  the  consequences 
that  followed  that  error. 

He  proceeded  to  relate  his  meeting  with  the  daughters 
of  the  sea,  a  meeting  which  was,  no  doubt,  ordained  by  fate. 
He  described  in  what  manner  his  labors  were  facilitated 
by  their  assistance,  and  how  they  had  in  a  manner  saved 
bis  life.  In  short,  he  expressed  the  extreme  felicity  he- 
enjoyed  since  the  moment  of  his  union  with  the  charming 
Dorathil-goase. 

He  concluded  with  mentioning  the  reasons  which  led 
him  to  return  to  Mount  Caucasus ;  how  he  there,  for  the 
first  time,  learned  from  II  Haboul  the  unhappy  situation 
of  his  father,  of  his  mother,  and  of  his  whole  tribe  ;  and 
how,  on  this,  he  took  the  resolution  of  hastening  to  Arabia. 

Salamis  eagerly  listened  to  this  narrative,  without  in- 
terrupting him.  When  he  had  done,  "My  son,"  said  he, 
"  have  you  not  resolved  to  punish  those  treacherous 
knights  who  have  so  basely  plotted  your  destruction  ?" 

"Fatber,"  said  Habib,  "  I  think  it  unnecessary  ;  I  leave 
them  to  the  stings  of  internal  remorse,  and  to  the  ven- 
geance of  Heaven.  Such  despicable  monsters  are  so  mean, 
SO  far  beneath  me,  that  I  cannot  stoop  to  punish  them." 

"Your  sentiments."  rejoined  Salamis,  "  are  truly  mag- 
nanimous ;  ycur  answer  is  worthy  of  a  hero;  but  you 
should  also  judge  as  a  king.  Vengeance  ought  always  to 
pursue  crimes,  and  the  guilty  are  not  proper  objects  of 
mercy.  But  after  their  infamous  treachery  to  you,  wha.1 
wonder  is  >t  that  their  cowardice  has  beer,  the  chief  causa 
43* 


510  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  all  the  disorders  which  have  desolated  our  tribe ;  fo» 
not  one  of  them  had  courage  enough  to  face  an  enemy." 

They  have  oppressed  my  people  with  every  species  oi 
injustice.  The  crimes  they  have  committed  against  you 
and  against  myself  are  so  enormous,  that  you  expose  tho 
whole  tribe  to  danger  in  suffering  them  to  live.  Besides, 
as  you  are  now  to  discover  yourself,  their  villany  must 
come  to  light,  and  public  justice  will  demand  their  punish 
ment.  I  might  add,  did  I  not  know  that  you  were  supe- 
rior to  such  fears,  that  they  would  still  be  dangerous 
enemies." 

Habib  yielded  to  these  reasons;  and  entreated  his  father 
to  acquaint  him  with  the  particulars  of  that  unhappy 
revolution  in  Arabia,  which  II  Haboul  had  mentioned  to 
him  only  in  general ;  and  of  which  the  sad  effects  were  too 
visible  on  the  face  of  the  country. 

"  O  my  son,"  resumed  the  virtuous  emir,  '•  1  call  on  you 
to  execute  vengeance  on  wretches  vhose  existence  is  a 
disgrace  to  humanity ;  and  while  I  excite  you  to  repress 
your  generous  feelings,  that  you  may  secure  the  welfare 
of  a  people  over  whom  you  may  hereafter  bear  rule,  it  is 
a  task  truly  painful  to  set  before  your  eyes  the  unpleasing 
picture  which  must  banish,  for  the  time,  those  sentiments 
of  universal  benevolence  which  should  always  inspire  the 
heart  of  a  true  Mussulman. 

"  When  the  Arabians  saw  me  deprived  of  sight,  when 
they  could  no  longer  hope  to  triumph  by  my  arms,  nor 
share  with  me  in  my  conquests,  they  regarded  me  as  an 
outcast  unworthy  of  life.  The  emirs  that  I  had  appointed 
in  my  provinces  forgot  that  they  owed  their  elevation  to 
me.  They  all  deserted  their  allegiance.  They  quarrelled 
among  themselves,  nor  -would  they  even  listen  to  my 
counsels. 

"  By  my  conduct  and  military  skill  they  had  subdued 
the  formidable  tribe  of  Kleb,  who  were  infidels,  worship- 
pers of  the  sun  and  the  stars.  We  were  obliged  to  reduce 
them  to  servitude  by  imposing  heavy  contributions,  which 
rendered  them  impatient  of  the  yoke. 

"  A  wavrior  starred  up  am  ong  them  named  Zir ;  a  man 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS  511 

of  enormous  stature  and  extraordinary  strength  :  he  was 
naturally  ambitious,  enterprising,  and  brave,  but  quarrel- 
some and  cruel. 

"Zir  had  excited  his  brethren  to  revolt;  they  flew  to 
arms ;  and  while  the  emirs  were  disputing  with  each  other 
about  the  vain  honor  of  command,  they  were  routed,  their 
forces  dispersed,  and  their  flocks  driven  off.  The  few  thai, 
were  not  entirely  subjected  by  him  are  now  wandering  in 
the  neighboring  deserts. 

"  Thus  freed  from  every  enemy  whose  force  be  had  rea- 
son to  fear,  the  terrible  Zir  advanced  to  my  camp  to  accom- 
plish the  most  important  part  of  his  project. 

"  The  tribe  of  Benihelal,  who  rendered  such  important 
services  to  our  holy  prophet,  was,  above  all  the  others, 
odious  in  the  eyes  of  the  infidels.  Zir  was  ambitious  of 
subjecting  them  to  the  same  degree  of  slavery  from  which 
he  had  delivered  his  own  people;  or  even,  if  he  could,  of 
cutting  them  off,  root  and  branch,  from  the  face  of  the 
earth. 

"  The  favorable  situation  of  our  camp,  between  two 
steep  hills,  the  exact  discipline  which  I  have  enjoined,  and 
the  means  I  have  suggested  of  repelling  attacks  and  avoid- 
ing surprise,  have  hitherto  prevented  my  defeat ;  but  we  ' 
are  daily  losing  gi-ound,  and  the  few  cattle  still  remaining 
with  us  can  scarcely  find  pasturage  sufficient  for  their 
support. 

"Had  you  not,  my  dear  son,  arrived  so  seasonably;  had 
not  Heaven  been  pleased  to  restore  my  sight,  no  other 
prospect  was  before  us  than  death  or  the  most  humiliating 
slavery. 

"  Though  the  enemy,  from  a  knowledge  of  our  position, 
~.ave  ceased  to  attempt  to  force  pur  lines,  yet  they  daily 
present  themselves  at  our  barriers,  and  exultingly  re- 
proach our  warriors  with  cowardice.  None  of  them  have 
courage  to  resent  those  cruel  insults;  and  one  might 
imagine  that  the  whole  tribe  of  Benihelal  was  reducid  to 
women  and  infants." 

This  recital  kindled  a  flame  in  the  breast  of  Habib. 
His  father  forsaken — his  tribe  dishonored  —  these  were 


512  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

ideas  altogether  insupportable;  but  above  all,  the  ungen- 
erous advantage  which  Zir  had  taken  of  his  father's  weak 
ness,  filled  his  soul  with  indignation  and  fury. 

"O  !  my  father!"  cried  he,  "I  hope  before  to-morrow's 
dawn  to  begin  our  vengeance. 

"  Under  these  tiger  skins,  which  perhaps  you  have  not 
yet  observed,  are  concealed  some  pieces  of  armor  of  no 
ordinary  kind,  which  were  given  me  by  II  Haboul  when 
J  last  visited  Caucasus.  Your  groom  shall  prepare  me  a 
war-horse:  I  will  fly  to  the  barrier,  there  to  await  the 
insolent  bravadoes  of  our  enemies,  and  give  them  a  proper 
reception. 

"  If  the  enemy  does  not  appear,  I  will  rush  on  to  the 
tents  of  Zir,  and  dare  him  to  the  combat." 

"And  where  shall  Salamis  be,",  cried  the  generous  old 
warrior,  "if  he  fails  to  accompany  his  son  in  so  glorious 
an  enterprise  ?  Here  are  two  suits  of  armor  under  the 
tiger-skins.  I  pray  thee  tell  me,  was  this  intended  for 
your  wife  or  me  ?  What  Arab  is  able  to  bear  these  arms, 
or  even  to  lift  this  lance  '! " 

Having  said  this,  he  took  it  up,  and  brandished  it  in 
the  air  in  a  terrible  manner.  While  he  wielded  the  enor- 
mous lance,  it  looked,  in  his  grasp,  like  a  reed  in  the  hands 
of  a  child.  "O  Mohammed!"  exclaimed  he,  "thou  hast 
restored  two  chiefs  to  thy  tribe  ;  restore,  also,  to  the 
people  their  courage  and  their  strength." 

Amirala  and  Dorathil-goase,  far  from  being  alarmed  for 
the  safety  of  their  husbands,  were  delighted  to  see  them 
assist  each  other  in  adjusting  their  armor,  and  to  observe 
the  graceful  manner  in  which  they,  by  turns,  tried  the 
weight  and  temper  of  their  weapons. 

When  they  were  completely  armed,  they  embraced : 
"Thou  art  my  son,"  said  Salamis;  "I  am  thy  father. 
To-day  we  are  brothers  and  rivals  in  the  field  of  honor. 

"  Pity  it  is  we  have  none  to  contend  with  but  slaves ! 
Let  us,  however,  take  comfort;  we  fight  for  the  great 
prophet,  and  our  glory  is  connected  with  his." 

Salamis  then  called  his  groom.  "  Prepare  for  us,"  said 
he,  "  two  horses  o*  the  noblest  breed :  let  them  be  capar- 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  513 

isoned  ii.  these  trappings,  and  conduct  them  to  your  tent. 
Keep  them  in  readiness  till  daybreak,  when  we  shall  mount. 

"God  has  been  pleased  to  restore  my  strength,  as  you 
see,  together  with  my  sight. 

"  To-morrow,  my  son  and  I  go  to  receive  the  challenge 
of  the  rebel  knights  from  the  army  of  Zir. 

"When  we  set  out  from  your  tent,  you  will  follow  at  a 
small  distance.  You  may  answer  to  those  in  the  camp 
who  inquire  who  we  are,  that  these  are  two  strangers, 
knights,  who  come  to  offer  their  services  to  Salamis." 

The  groom  retired  to  do  as  he  had  been  commanded ; 
and  the  darkness  of  the  night  enabled  him  to  execute  his 
orders  without  being  perceived. 

The  guards  who  kept,  the  passages  to  the  emir's  tents 
saw  the  groom  enter  without  suspicion  -,  and  as  they  knew 
him  to  be  the  emir's  servant,  suffered  him  to  take  from 
thence  two  horses  without  the  least  disturbance. 

At  daybreak  the  two  warriors,  armed  cap-a-pie,  after 
taking  the  most  affectionate  leave  of  their  spouses,  went 
out  unobserved.  They  came  to  the  groom's  tent,  mounted 
their  horses,  and  rode  up  to  the  barriers  to  await  the  ap- 
proach of  Zir's  warriors,  who  came  there  daily  to  renew 
their  insults. 

Nor  had  they  long  to  wait.  Six  knights,  in  complete 
armor,  soon  made  their  appearance ;  and,  followed  by  a 
small  party  of  their  attendants,  advanced  toward  the 
barriers  of  the  camp.  One  of  them  alighted,  and  thus 
addressed  the  guard  who  kept  that  post: 

"  People  of  Arabia :  Are  you  mad  ?  Would  you  remain 
mgloriously  penned  up  like  your  cattle,  on  the  last  of 
which  you  now  feed  ?  Would  you  suffer  famine  and 
death  for  the  sake  of  a  poor  blind  man  ?  Our  chains  are 
honorable,  and  are  destined  to  be  worn  by  the  bravest 
people  of  the  earth.  Submit,  then,  to  the  common  lot  of 
the  nations  conquered  by  our  arms.  You  shall  be  per- 
mitted to  become  a  footstool  to  the  throne  of  the  mighty 
crnir  Zir,  our  glorious  sovereign.  Leave,  then,  for  shame, 
this  feeble  old  man,  who  can  only  share  with  you  his  dis- 
grace aid  imbecility.  You  shall  even  be  allowed  to  mix 
2b 


514  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

with  our  tribe,  and  there  forget  the  ignominy  of  your 
own.  Why  not  forsake  a  prince  abandoned  by  Heaven, 
who  has  not  among  his  friends  one  knight  bold  enough 
to  face  the  weakest  of  us?" 

"Thou  liest,  vile  slave  of  a  rebel  slave!"  cried  Habib, 
who  had  suddenly  started  from  behind  the  palisade.  He 
then  struck  the  visor  of  his  casque  with  one  of  his  gaunt 
lets,  as  a  signal  of  defiance. 

"I  here  defy  thee,"  said  Habib,  "and  challenge  thee  to 
engage  a  knight  of  the  great  Salamis." 

In  the  meantime,  the  valiant  husband  of  Dorathil-goase 
overleaped  the  barrier,  and  came  up  with  his  adversary 
before  he  had  time  to  remount  his  horse,  or  lay  hold  of 
his  shield. 

Habib  threw  away  his,  disdaining  the  least  advantage 
of  that  sort,  and  the  fight  began.  But  the  victory  was 
soon  decided  in  favor  of  the  son  of  Salamis.  Habib 
scarcely  struck  a  blow  that  did  not  pierce  the  armor  of 
his  antagonist,  and  he  fell  dead  at  his  feet  before  the 
other  knights  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb  could  advance  to  assist 
their  companion  in  arms. 

He  who  first  came  up,  forgetting  the  laws  of  war  and  of 
honor,  tried  to  overthrow  Habib  by  rushing  on  him  with 
his  horse.  The  brave  son  of  Salamis  avoided  the  shock, 
and  with  a  mortal  blow  smote  his  adversary  to  the  ground. 

Salamis,  who  had  just  passed  the  barrier,  met  the  third 
*night,  and  dispatched  him.  Habib,  who  had  now  taken 
his  horse,  joined  his  father,  and  both  fell  upon  the  three 
remaining  warriors  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb. 

These  knights  would  have  sought  safety  in  flight  had 
not  the  shame  of  being  seen  by  their  attendants  restrained 
them.  Fear,  however,  had  seized  their  hearts;  they  suf- 
fered themselves  to  be  disarmed,  and  the  fate  of  their  com- 
panions completed  their  terror. 

Salamis  and  his  son  returned  to  the  camp.  Every  one 
who  bore  the  title  of  knight  in  the  tribe  of  Benihelal, 
came  about  them  half  armed.  Joy,  mixed  with  suspicion 
and  shame,  appeared  in  their  faces.  They  asked,  "Who 
can  they  be  ?    From  whence  are  those  wonderful  strangers 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAlx^MEif TS.  515 

who  have  displayed  such  intrepidity  against  our  enemies, 
who  have  so  easily  triumphed  in  the  unequal  contest  of 
two  against  six?" 

The  two  knights  did  not  remove  the  visors  of  their 
casques.  They  answered  those  who  praised  their  valor, 
only  by  a  graceful  inclination  of  the  head.  They  observed 
a  profound  silence,  and  the  groom  who  spoke  for  them, 
told  the  people  that  they  were  two  noble  and  valiant 
strangers,  who  were  come  to  offer  their  services  to  the 
emir ;  and  that  they  had  requested  to  be  conducted  to  his 
tent,  that  they  might  be  introduced  to  him. 

The  two  heroes  again  mounted  their  steeds  and  pro- 
ceeded to  the  tent  of  Salamis.  The  groom  led  the  way, 
went  on  before  them  as  if  to  announce  their  arrival,  and 
afterward  introduced  them  with  a  mysterious  air. 

They  were  received  with  open  arms  by  Amirala  and 
Dorathil-goase.  The  steel  in  which  they  were  clad  seemed 
to  yield  and  become  soft  in  the  tender  embrace. 

A  victorious  knight  is  an  object  of  the  highest  delight 
to  his  lad}T.  Can  any  title  be  more  pleasing,  even  amidst 
the  most  endearing  caresses?  These  two  happy  pairs 
indulged  their  mutual  fondness  without  restraint;  for 
love,  tempered  with  virtue,  knows  no  bounds,  and  can 
never  arrive  at  excess. 

The  heroes  were  assisted  in  putting  off  their  arms  by 
their  fair  spouses,  who,  with  their  own  hands,  served 
them  with  a  repast.  Salamis  was  informed  that  his  tent 
was  surrounded  by  a  multitude  of  inquisitive  people  of  all 
ranks.  He  gave  orders  to  tell  them,  that,  having  passed 
the  night  uneasily,  he  had  need  of  repose.  At  the  same 
time,  he  commanded  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the 
camp,  that  he  would  hold  a  great  council  of  all  his  knights 
immediately  after  mid-day  prayers. 

The  rumor  had  been  spread  that  a  physician  had  arrived, 
who  was  to  operate  on  the  emir's  eyes ;  but  both  he  and 
his  slave  had  disappeared.  It  was  believed  by  some  that 
the  emir  having  no  confidence  in  the  operatiou  proposed, 
had  abruptly  sent  away  the  person  who  came  to  at  tempt  it. 

Others   again  asked,   when,  and  in  what  manatr.   two 


516  ARABIAN    NIGHTS*    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

knights  in  complete  armor  could  have  been  introduced  to 
a  fortified  camp,  and  penetrate  to  the  emir's  tent,  without 
being  seen  by  the  guards  or  any  other  person  ? 

While  the  people  were  perplexing  themselves  with  con- 
jectures on  these  subjects,  Salamis,  Amirala,  Habib,  and 
Dorathil-goase  retired  to  refresh  themselves,  after  so  much 
fatigue,  with  a  short  repose.  All  who  were  to  be  present 
at  the  council  prepared  to  hear  something  new  and  won- 
derful, whatever  it  might  be,  and  none  failed  to  attend 
exactly  at  the  hour  appointed. 

Salamis  received  his  knights,  seated  on  a  sofa  —  leaning 
his  forehead  on  his  hand  that  they  might  not  remark  the 
new  lustre  which  reanimated  his  countenance. 

When  the  assembly  was  full,  and  every  one  had  taken 
his  place,  he  thus  addressed  them  :  "  Emirs  and  knights, 
who  were  the  glory  of  the  tribe  of  Benihelal,  before  it  in- 
curred the  wrath  of  the  great  prophet,  I  scarce  could 
have  flattered  myself  with  the  hope  of  discovering  the 
cause  of  our  punishment,  nor  of  seeing  an  end  to  the  pro- 
gress of  misfortune. 

"  Placing  my  hope  in  God  alone,  I  was  always  resigned 
to  his  will ;  and  he  has  at  last  been  pleased  to  reveal  to 
me  the  dreadful  crimes  of  which  some  brethren  of  our 
tribe  have  been  guilty.  These  have  provoked  Heaven, 
and  drawn  down  its  vengeance  on  our  heads. 

"  0  emirs  !  and  more  especially  ye  Arabian  knights  who 
now  hear  me !  You  have  among  you  some  base  and  false 
hearts  —  souls  stained  with  the  blackest  treasons,  and  the 
most  horrid  crimes  ! 

"As  soon  as  their  enormities  were  committed,  Moham- 
med withdrew  his  favor.  The  heavens  were  reversed,  and 
every  star  was  against  us.  We  became  a  prey  to  the 
infidels. 

"Myself,  being  your  chief,  though  innocent,  was  struck 
w  th  blindness,  and  found  my  power  wrested  from  me,  and 
my  counsels  despised.  Even  your  natural  courage  has 
foi'saken  your  hearts,  and  you  can  no  longer  face  an 
enemy.  You  are  become  the  subject  of  their  raillery. 
Those  who  once  exulted  in  their  strength  have  felt  their 
knees  tremble  and  have  crept  behind  their  intrenchmont* 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  517 

"  The  tribes  who  were  subjected  to  me  have  thrown  off 
their  allegiance  ;  without,  however,  escaping  the  disasters 
which  guilt  has  brought  on  the  tents  of  the  Arabs.  Their 
enemies,  as  weak  as  ourselves,  but  still  more  imprudent, 
have,  by  their  internal  divisions,  suffered  their  brethren 
to  sink  under  the  sword  of  their  rebel  slaves;  and  those 
who  have  not  attempted  to  gain  advantages  by  rebellion, 
have  fled  to  the  inhospitable  deserts  of  this  country,  there 
to  seek  a  miserable  and  inglorious  asylum  ! 

"Our  misfortunes,  arrived  almost  at  the  highest  pitch, 
have,  at  last,  excited  the  compassion  of  Heaven  ;  and  di- 
vine justice  now  only  demands  from  us  the  punishment  of 
those  crimes  for  which  it  had,  with  regret,  pursued  the 
innocent  with  the  guilty,  in  order  that  a  more  severe  chas- 
tisement may  be  inflicted  on  the  camp  of  the  enemy. 

"  Consent,  then,  instantly  to  deliver  up  to  justice  thoso 
who  are  found  worthy  of  punishment — those  wretches 
who  have  drawn  down  the  vengeance  of  Heaven  on  the 
faithful  Mussulmans  of  Arabia ! " 

The  emir  had  pronounced  this  speech  with  a  tone  of 
firmness  and  authority,  that  his  audience  could  scarce 
have  expected  from  one  in  the  humiliating  situation  in 
which  they  still  supposed  him.  They  gazed  on  each 
other  in  silent  astonishment.  Some  looked  down,  fixing 
their  eyes  on  the  earth;  but  the  unanimous  voice  of  the 
assembly  seemed  to  declare,  that  the  horrid  crimes  which 
had  provoked  the  wrath  of  Heaven  against  their  tribej 
should  be  expiated  by  the  death  of  the  guilty. 

"Are  proofs  wanted!"  said  the  emir,  while  Habib 
stepped  from  behind  a  curtain  where  he  stood  concealed : 
"  Come  forth,  my  son,  convict  these  nineteen  knights  who 
stand  before  us,  of  the  false  report  they  made  of  your 
death,  both  to  myself  and  to  the  whole  tribe." 

Then  turning  to  the  criminals:  "Base  and  cruel  impos- 
tors, can  you  deny  that  I  intrusted  you,  in  preference  tc 
others,  with  the  care  and  protection  of  your  young  prince  ; 
that  you,  adding  treachery  to  cowardice,  resolved  to 
aban  ion  him  ;  and  that  to  escape  my  vengeance,  you  left 
him  »n  his  sleep,  destitute  of  every  resource,  and  even  of 
44 


518  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINM.EN18. 

his  arms,  —  exposed  to  hunger  and  thirst,  to  the  fury  of 
the  elements,  and  the  rage  of  wild  beasts?" 

The  sight  of  Habib  was  like  a  stroke  of  thunder  to  the 
guilty  knights.     Salamis  thus  proceeded : 

"Knights  of  the  tribe  of  Benihelal:  to  you  it  belongs 
to  pronounce  the  sentence,  and  order  the  execution  of  the 
criminals.  To  you  it  belongs  to  avenge  the  children  of 
Mohammed  on  those  who  have  brought  dishonor  on  his 
favorite  tribe,  and  the  scourge  of  divine  justice  on  the 
whole  people." 

The  criminals  were  mute,  nor  could  they  offer  a  word 
in  their  own  defence.  They  were  surrounded,  bound,  and 
their  armor  torn  off  piece  by  piece;  being  immediately 
delivered  over  to  the  executioners,  they  were  led  out  of 
the  camp,  their  heads  struck  off  with  a  sabre,  and  their 
bodies  left  exposed  as  a  prey  to  the  ravenous  beasts. 

Eabir  had  been  saved  from  the  infamy  of  this  punish 
ment  by  his  death,  which  happened  soon  after  his  return. 
The  horror  of  having  consented  to  such  an  enormity  had 
hastened  his  end,  which  might  otherwise  have  been  re- 
garded as  premature 

Having  thus  done  justice  to  their  royal  chief,  the 
knights  made  haste  to  testify  their  joy  at  the  return  of 
Habib. 

While  Salamis  spoke  to  them,  the  importance  of  his 
discourse  so  entirely  captivated  their  attention,  that  they 
had  not  remarked  the  sparkling  orbs  which  now  ream- 
mated  his  looks. 

On  their  return,  Salamis  addressed  them  one  after  an- 
other, with  graceful  condescension  ;  and  all  remarked  with 
astonishment  the  return  of  his  sight.  "Have  you  not 
heard,"  said  the  emir,  "  of  the  physician  who  was  last 
night  introduced  to  me,  and  whose  secret  remedy  has,  by 
the  grace  of  God  and  his  prophet,  proved  effectual  ?  Nor 
is  this  the  only  favor  which  Heaven  has  bestowed  on  us. 

"  The  victory  which  my  son  and  I  obtained  this  morn- 
ing, is  the  pledge  of  future  glory.  Brave  Arabians !  the 
stain  of  guilt  is  no  longer  upon  you:  resume  your  wonted 
Btrongth  and  military  ardor ;  prepare  to  attack  the  tenti 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  519 

of  Zir  I  ask  none  to  follow  me  but  my  valiant  knights  j 
my  other  warriors  may  remain  to  protect  our  flocks  in 
the  rich  pastures  I  shall  point  out.  A  sufficient  guard 
will  also  be  left  in  the  camp. 

"  Let  all  our  subject  tribes  who  are  wandering  in  the 
desert  be  informed,  that,  by  to-morrow,  terror  shall  reign 
in  the  tents  of  our  enemies,  and  fear  shall  be  banished 
from  the  breast  of  all  those  who  repair  to  the  standard  of 
Salamis. 

"  While  we  are  collecting  a  body  of  forces,  whose  ap- 
pearance may  be  sufficiently  formidable  to  intimidate  the 
enemy,  and  thus  save  us  the  pain  of  entering  upon  a 
bloody  war,  I  hope  you,  my  dear  friends,  and  all  the  re- 
maining people  of  Arabia,  who  serve  the  true  God,  will 
join  me,  on  this  just  occasion,  in  thanking  Heaven  for  its 
favors. 

"The  return  of  Habib,  and  the  recovery  of  my  sight, 
are  not,  however,  the  only  subjects  of  my  happiness.  The 
Queen  of  the  Seven  Seas  at  the  extremity  of  the  east,  the 
fair  Dorathil-goase,  the  wife  whom  the  stars  had  destined 
to  my  son  —  she  herself  is  the  messenger  of  Heaven  sent 
to  restore  the  strength  of  my  youth,  and  with  it  the  power 
of  lifting  those  eyes  to  Heaven  which  were  before  in- 
volved in  darkness ! 

"  Let  this  news  be  proclaimed  in  every  country  where 
the  laws  of  the  Alcoran  are  obeyed,  that  all  people  may 
give  thanks  to  God  and  his  prophet. 

"Let  days  of  thanksgiving  be  appointed.  But  these 
religious  festivals  are  not  intended  for  the  indulgence  of 
sensual  appetites ;  it  is  the  soul  that  should  rejoice  at  the 
return  of  those  blessings  so  unexpected  and  so  wonderful. 

"May  our  expressions  of  pious  gratitude,  and  our  shouts 
of  joy,  be  re-echoed  in  the  tents  of  Zir,  and  cause  the 
hearts  of  our  enemies  to  quake  with  terror." 

The  ceremonies  of  the  thanksgiving  were  publicly  and 
unanimously  celebrated  in  the  camp  of  Salamis,  with  all 
the  solemnity  and  pomp  which  the  present  circumstances 
permitted. 

Dorathil-goase  received  the  blessing  and  the  homage  of 


ft20  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

the  whole  tribe  of  Benihelal,  and  the  camp  resounded  with 
the  acclamations  of  joy,  which  were  intermingled  with 
the  noise  occasioned  by  the  general  festival. 

The  camp  of  Salamis  now  wore  the  appearance  of  the 
highest  prosperity.  The  happy  news  spread  abroad,  and 
attracted  many  knights  of  the  other  tribes,  who  had  been 
separated  from  their  prince  during  his  misfortunes. 

Salamis  received  them  graciously,  and  made  Habib  and 
his  spouse  also  show  them  every  mark  of  kindness.  He 
anticipated  the  excuses,  and  saved  them  the  confusion  of 
offering  an  apology  for  their  conduct,  by  referring  all  that 
had  happened  to  the  chastisement  of  Heaven.  In  fifteen 
days  the  emir  saw  himself  surrounded  with  a  respectable 
and  numerous  train  of  knights,  glowing  with  desire  to 
repair,  by  feats  of  arms,  the  shame  of  defection  on  the  one 
hand,  and  the  disgrace  of  inaction  on  the  other. 

Zir  was  not  ignorant  of  this  revolution.  The  defeat  of 
his  six  warriors  had  made  him  expect  such  a  piece  of 
news.  Three  of  them  fell  in  the  field  of  battle;  three 
were  prisoners  in  the  camp  of  Salamis.  The  latter  had 
communicated  to  their  tribe  the  news  which  had  reached 
them  even  in  their  prison.  Zir  was  struck' with  astonish- 
ment at  hearing  of  the  sudden  cure  of  Salamis,  and  the 
return  of  Habib  with  the  fair  queen  whom  he  had  married. 

He  now  understood  who  the  two  strangers  were  who 
had  fought  against  his  six  knights ;  and  he  regretted  that 
he  had  not  himself  appeared  before  the  enemy's  lines, 
that  he  might  have  sustained  the  shock  where  his  war- 
riors were  so  unequal  to  the  contest. 

His  confidence  in  his  own  strength  made  him  believe 
that  he  would  have  come  off  victorious.  But  he  resolved 
to  wipe  off  the  dishonor  which  that  action  had  cast  on  his 
arms,  by  challenging  Salamis  to  single  combat  in  the  face 
of  his  own  camp. 

Temana,  his  sister,  a  princess  distinguished  for  good 
sense  and  beauty,  though  she  believed  her  brother's 
strength  and  courage  to  be  more  than  human,  yet  dis- 
suaded him  from  the  rash  attempt. 

"  My  brother,"  said  she,  "  you  will  perhaps  -regard  my 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  521 

opinion  as  influenced  by  principles  which  you  are  not 
willing  to  admit.  How  formidable  soever  his  strength 
may  be  who  has  long  been  called  the  great  Salamis,  were 
I  not  Id  attribute  anything  to  fortune,  I  would  consider 
you  as  at  least  his  equal  match;  but  I  attribute  much  to 
the  aspect  of  the  stars. 

"  Their  malign  influence  has  already  been  shed  on  the 
tribe  of  Benihelal.  That  tribe,  and  all  the  people  subject 
to  it,  have  been  delivered  into  your  hands,  and  you  have 
hitherto  triumphed. 

"But,  my  dear  brother,  the  heavens  change  and  the 
influence  of  the  stars  may  also  change. 

"  It  is  a  maxim  universally  admitted,  that  misfortunes 
never  come  singly.  We  also  reckon  upon  a  run  of  good 
luck;  but  we  never  think  of  tracing  the  matter  to  its 
first  source. 

"  Consider,  then,  the  happy  and  even  miraculous  events 
which  have  already  favored  your  enemies ;  and  consult 
the  surest  means,  according  to  the  course  of  your  destiny, 
and  without  taking  your  glory  into  the  account,  how  you 
may  insure  your  personal  safety,  on  which  the  security 
of  the  whole  tribe  of  Kleb  absolutely  depends." 

"  It  will  be  time  enough  to  think  of  all  this,  sister," 
answered  Zir,  "  after  I  have  conquered  Salamis.  His 
power  is  less  odious  to  me  than  his  glory.  I  have  seen 
it  overthrown,  but  it  again  springs  up  from  its  ruins.  He 
has  set  up  his  son,  too,  as  a  fresh  obstacle  to  my  reputation. 

"All  Arabia  is  too  narrow  to  satisfy  my  ambition  ;  how 
then  could  I  bear  two  rivals?  Your  stars,  sister,  may  do 
as  they  please ;  but  if  they  are  against  me,  I  shall  make 
them  become  pale  with  fear  for  the  champions  they  pre- 
fer before  me." 

While  Yemana  and  her  brother  held  this  discourse,  Sal- 
amis, at  the  head  of  his  vassals,  advanced  toward  the 
tents  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb,  which  were  only  about  three 
leagues  irom  his  camp. 

This  was  but  a  short  march  ;  and  Zir  being  informed  of 
their  approach,  led  out  an  equal  number  of  warriors.    The 

44* 


5*2  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

two  armies  now  faced  each  other  at  a  little  moie  than  a 
bow-shot  distance. 

The  proud  and  gigantic  Zir,  mounted  on  a  high-mettled 
charger,  insultingly  pranced  along  the  front' of  his  squad- 
rons. Salamis  was  advancing  to  challenge  him  to  single 
combat.  "No,  my  father,  no!"  cried  the  youthful  war- 
rior; "Heaven  has  preserved  me  and  sent  me  here  to  take 
vengeance  on  your  enemies." 

"  You  are  too  young,  my  Habib,"  answered  the  tender 
father;  "your  limbs  have  not  yet  acquired  a  sufficient 
degree  of  strength  to  sustain  a  contest  with  a  giant." 

"Ah  !"  said  Dorathil-goase,  "  do  not  doubt  that  the  hero 
who  has  sprung  from  you  will  show  himself  worthy  of 
his  high  descent.  Be  contented  with  the  glory  you  have 
already  acquired,  and  intrust  your  quarrel  to  my  Habib; 
you  shall  soon  see  that  no  giant  is  a  match  for  him." 

The  joint  entreaties  of  Habib,  Amirala,  and  Dorathil- 
goase,  at  last  made  the  brave  emir  yield  to  his  son  the 
honor  of  giving  the  challenge. 

Habib  laid  aside  the  Parthian  lance,  and  took  one  of 
the  usual  form  in  Arabia,  that  he  might  be  on  an  equal 
footing  with  his  antagonist.  He  advanced  with  his  visor 
lifted  up,  and  presenting  himself  gracefully  on  his  noble 
steed,  gave  the  signal  of  defence. 

Zir  came  up,  and  assuming  a  tone  of  irony,  "How 
sweet,"  said  he,  "  is  the  silver  tone  of  thy  voice.  Pray, 
art  thou  not  a  woman  ?"  "  You  shall  know  me,  by-and- 
by,  for  what  I  am,"  answered  Habib,  fiercely 

"  Ha !  I  remember  you,  my  pretty  baby  .  I  have  seen 
you  dandled  on  Amirala's  knees.  How  handsome  you 
are!  Your  father,  sure,  did  not  send  you  to  fight  with 
me !  He  knows  that  I  love  youth.  Go,  tell  him  that  I 
wait  for  him,  and  that  I  will  contend  with  none  but  men." 

"  My  father,"  replied  Habib,  "scorns  to  fight  with  his 
rebel  slave.  I  have  learned,  even  in  my  mother's  arms 
to  despise  insolence." 

"  But,  young  man,  I  shall  now  be  forced  to  bestow  on 
your  mother  a  mourning  garb,  which  she  need  not  hope 
to  quit  a  second  time.     Go,  I  say,  fetch  me  your  father 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  523 

However  vain  he  may  be  of  his  former  victories,  would 
not  the  trophy  of  my  arms,  if  he  should  triumph  over  me, 
be  a  noble  ornament  displayed  upon  his  tent?" 

"  I  have  already  told  thee,  slave,  that  my  father  will 
not  do  thee  the  honor  to  accept  thy  challenge.  Thirty 
times  hast  thou  followed  him  to  battle,  singing  his  victo- 
ries over  warriors  more  valiant  than  thyself;  «or  could 
thy  defeat  add  anything  to  his  glory.  Thou  shalt  not 
have  the  trouble  of  sending  a  mourning  dress  to  my 
mother;  nor  can  I  do  the  like  to  yours;  it  is  well  known 
that  you  are  even  ignorant  of  her  name;  —  but  I  here 
promise  to  present  a  full  suit  to  your  sister,  Yemana." 

"Rash  fool!"  cried  Zir,  pushing  on  his  horse;  "I  have 
been  led  to  battle,  singing  the  victories  of  your  father, 
because  the  tribe  of  Kleb  were  slaves,  and  slaves  must 
sing  anything.  Your  mother  and  the  adventurer-queen 
you  have  brought  from  the  deserts  shall  sing  mine  to- 
morrow. They  shall  wear  my  chains  and  be  subject  to 
my  will,  or  their  blood  shall  stain  the  earth,  or  be  mingled 
with  thine  and  thy  father's."  Having  said  this,  he  threw 
his  lance  with  vast  force  against  Habib. 

The  young  warrior  observed  its  direction,  and  by  a 
skilful  and  sudden  motion  of  his  body  evaded  the  blow. 
Tlje  lance  passed  over  him,  and  fell  at  the  distance  of 
thirty  paces. 

Habib,  lifting  up  his  lance,  presented  it  to  the  throat  of 
Zir.  "  Thou  hast  dared,"  said  he,  "  to  pronounce  the  name 
of  my  mother  and  my  spouse  in  terms  of  insult,  like  a 
mean  coward.  Thou  hast  a  sister  who  is  very  weak ;  she 
will  be  more  so  after  thy  death,  and  shall  be  the  more 
entitled  to  my  compassion."  Then  gently  tapping  upon 
his  shoulder  with  the  point  of  his  lance,  "  Go,"  said  het 
"  take  up  your  weapon  where  your  awkwardness  has 
made  you  throw  it.  Armed,  I  despise  thee !  unarmed, 
thou  art  an  object  of  ridicule ! "  Zir,  distracted  with 
rage,  flew  to  seize  the  lance,  and  returning  to  the  attack, 
ngain  threw  it  against  Habib  with  all  the  force  that  furv 
could  add  to  an  arm  that  was  thought  irresistible. 

Habib,  by  the  most  dexterous  movement  imaginable, 


524  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

withdrew  .ais  body  from  the  stroke  by  passing  his  leg 
under  the  belly  of  his  horse.  The  weapon  glanced  along 
within  half  a  foot  of  the  saddle,  and  its  point  pierced  the 
trunk  of  a  tree  at  some  distance. 

Habib  now  threw  down  his  own  lance;  and  Zir  was 
more  than  ever  enraged  at  this  fresh  mark  of  contempt. 

He  drew  his  scimitar,  and  assailed  Habib  with  innu- 
merable blows,  which  fell  on  every  part  of  his  armor  as 
thick  as  hail. 

In  this  contest  the  strength  of  the  combatants  might 
be  nearly  equal ;  but  in  skill  and  presence  of  mind  there 
was  a  great  disparity.  Every  stroke  given  by  Zir  was 
foreseen  and  warded  off;  but  those  of  his  antagonist 
always  took  effect,  and  never  failed  to  carry  away  some 
portion  of  Zir's  strong  armor.  Many  passages  were  thus 
opened  to  the  sword ;  and  while  the  giant  lifted  his  arm 
against  the  son  of  Salamis,  the  young  hero,  with  a  reversed 
blow,  struck  off  his  hand  by  the  wrist-.  Zir  attempted  to 
save  himself  by  flight ;  but  a  second  stroke  laid  his  head 
at  the  feet  of  the  conqueror. 

Both  the  camps,  and  even  the  women,  were  witnesses 
to  the  contest  between  Habib  and  the  gigantic  Zir.  The 
knights  of  both  parties  were  filled  with  the  highest  ad- 
miration at  the  discourse  and  gallant  behavior  of  the  s.on 
of  Salamis.  "  What  generosity !  what  moderation  I"  cried 
they.  "  So  much  activity,  grace,  and  skill,  united  to  such 
strength  and  valor,  must  surely  be  irresistible!" 

But  though  there  could  be  only  one  opinion  as  to  the 
merits  of  the  combat,  its  consequences  to  the  opposite 
parties  were  very  different. 

Consternation  seized  the  tribe  of  Kleb ;  they  thought 
themselves  vanquished  by  a  single  arm.  The  knighthood 
returned  to  their  camp  that  they  might  withdraw  their 
most  valuable  effects  from  the  pillage  which  they  regarded 
as  the  inevitable  consequence  of  their  defeat. 

Already  did  the  people  disperse  in  small  parties,  con- 
sulting together  how  they  might  escape  by  flight  from  a 
state  of  slavery  more  dreadful  than  that  which  they  had 
endeavored  to  shake  off.     The   followers  of  Salamis,  on 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  52J) 

the  other  hand,  advanced  in  good  order,  that  they  might 
avail  themselves  of  the  advantage  gained  by  the  Bon  of 
their  emir,  and  the  disorder  of  the  enemy. 

Habib,  confident  of  his  strength,  courage,  and  good  for- 
tune, entered  the  camp  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb,  followed  by  a 
few  warriors  whom  none  ventured  to  oppose,  and  ordered 
that  he  should  be  conducted  to  the  tent  of  the  princess 
Yemana. 

That  princess,  accompanied  by  fifty  guards  who  attended 
her  person,  had  viewed  the  combat  at  a  distance  mounted 
upon  a  hodage*  which  had  been  raised  higher  than  usual 
on  the  back  of  her  hetnacka. 

The  wTarriors  who  had  led  on  the  party  commanded  by 
Salamis,  came  up  to  their  young  sultan,  who  placed  them 
about  Yemana  and  sent  others  to  prevent  pillage,  and  to 
recover  whatever  plunder  had  been  already  made  by  his 
people.  At  the  moment  Salamis  was  giving  orders  to 
pursue  the  detached  bands  of  the  tribes  of  Kleb,  he  was 
amazed  to  see  the  people  come  peaceably  and  range  them- 
selves under  their  tents. 

He  soon  learned  that  this  was  owing  to  the  prudent 
conduct  of  his  son.  He  came  into  the  camp  accompanied 
by  Amirala  and  Dorathil-goase,  and  was  shown  to  the 
tents  of  Yemana. 

When  they  advanced,  the  princess  of  Kleb  arose  that 
she  might  present  herself  to  them  as  a  suppliant.  Habib 
would  not  suffer  her  to  kneel,  but  thus  addressed  his  father. 

"  O  !  my  glorious  sovereign  ! "  said  he,  "  I  have  promised 
your  clemency  to  Yemana,  princess  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb. 
She  possesses  every  great  quality  that  can  fit  her  for  the 
throne.  Besides,  if  she  swerved  from  her  duty,  it  was 
owing  to  her  brother,  for  she  never  took  part  against  us; 
and  she  has  requested  to  be  reinstated  in  your  good  graces, 
in  a  manner  so  handsome,  so  worthy  of  herself,  that  I  have 
promised  her  favor  in  your  name,  in  that  of  my  mother, 
and  of  the  charming  Dorathil-goase." 

*  The  ladies  of  Arabia  commonly  ride  on  female  camels  called  hetnacka. 
The  carpets  that  cover  the  camels'  backs  are  rolled  into  a  sort  a 'cushion,  on 
which  the  lady  and  her  slave  are  seated.     This  is  named  hodage. 


J»26  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

Confiding  in  whai  his  son  had  said  in  favor  of  Yemana, 
Salamis  assented  to  whatever  he  had  done  for  the  prin- 
cess. He  knew  that  she  had  none  of  the  vices  of  her 
brother;  and  that  she  was  even  willing  to  embrace  the 
doctrines  of  the  Alcoran. 

"Madam,"  said  he,  "  I  here  ratify  with  joy  all  that  my 
son  has  done  for  you,  and,"  added  he,  "  you  appear  so 
worthy,  that  I  should  be  happy,  if  possible,  to  add  new 
favors  to  those  which  he  has  already  conferred  on  you." 
At  the  same  time  Amirala  and  Dorathil-goase  embraced 
the  new  princess  of  Kleb  with  unfeigned  affection. 

They  would  have  willingly  conducted  her  to  the  tents 
of  Benihelal,  there  to  console  her,  by  their  caresses,  for 
the  loss  of  a  brother  who  was  so  dear  to  her;  but  her 
presence  was  necessary  at  his  funeral,  which  was  cele- 
brated with  all  the  ceremonies  of  mourning  usual  in  that 
tribe,  and  likewise  for  establishing  good  order  among  the 
people  of  whom  she  had  now  assumed  the  management. 

Habib,  that  nothing  might  be  wanting,  ordered  a  hun- 
dred knights  to  wait  her  orders.  The  venerable  emir  now 
returned  to  the  tents  of  Benihelal  with  his  family,  and 
was  received  with  songs  of  triumph. 

The  praises  of  Habib  resounded  from  every  quarter,  and 
the  subject  of  the  song  was  his  victory  over  Zir. 

"But,  good  people!"  cried  Dorathil-goase,  "what  has 
my  husband  done  ?  What  else  did  you  expect  from  the 
son  of  the  great  Salamis  ?  You  mistake  the  object  of 
your  praise'.  Delicious  fruit  is  pleasing  to  the  taste ;  but 
it  is  the  tree  that  bears  it  which  merits  your  esteem  ! " 

For  ten  days  nothing  was  to  be  seen  in  the  tents  of 
Benihelal  but  feasting  and  rejoicing.  The  most  distant 
tribes  of  the  Arabs,  who  had  fled  from  the  tyranny  of  Zir, 
collected  around  the  camp  of  their  ancient  emir ;  their  tenta 
are  pitched  near  him,  and  he  again  sees  himself  at  the 
head  of  his  sixty-six  tribes,  his  strength  restored,  and  his 
authority  more  firmly  established  than  ever. 

After  the  ten  days'  festival,  Yemana,  attended  by  the 
chiefs  of  her  tribe,  came  to  pay  homage  to  her  sovereign. 
She  still  wore  her  mourning  dress,  which  greatly  improved 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS..  527 

the  softness  of  her  charms.  She  was  received  by  tro 
emir  and  Habib  with  every  mark  of  respect  that  became 
her  sex  and  quality.  Amirala  and  Dorathil-goase  also 
gave  her  a  kind  and  familiar  welcome. 

Salamis  had  a  nephew,  the  son  of  his  brother,  called 
Saphey,  a  young  and  promising  warrior.  The  emir  re- 
solved to  bestow  his  hand  on  Yemana,  creating  him  at 
the  same  time  emir  of  the  tribe  of  Kleb.  Yemana  accepted 
this  new  mark  of  favor  with  suitable  gratitude ;  and  a 
remission  of  their  tribute  was  the  royal  present  at  the 
nuptials. 

New  festivities  followed  this  happy  event,  which  effaced 
every  vestige  of  slavery  from  the  tribe  of  Kleb.  The 
knights  who  had  followed  their  princess  were  quite  aston- 
ished at  a  reception  so  gracious. 

"Knights,"  said  their  new  sovereign,  "it  is  thus  that  a 
faithful  Mussulman  takes  revenge  on  his  enemies.  From 
this  day  let  the  people  be  less  disaffected  to  laws  which 
are  productive  of  so  many  worthy  actions.  Henceforth 
let  the  tribe  of  Kleb  renounce  their  ignorance  and  ferocity. 
They  ought  no  longer  to  admire  heroes  like  Zir,  whose 
sole  merit  depends  on  strength  and  violence;  and  who 
think  themselves  only  great  in  so  far  as  they  can  strike 
terror."  After  the  departure  of  Yemana  and  her  husband 
to  their  camp,  Dorathil-goase  and  Habib  felt  some  impa- 
tience to  return  to  their  own  states,  to  succor  the  people, 
who  had  not  yet  recovered  from  the  terror  occasioned  by 
the  tyranny  of  Abarikaff. 

Salamis  knew  too  well  the  duties  of  a  king  to  oppose 
their  intention,  or  require  the  sacrifice  of  their  people's 
happiness  for  his  private  satisfaction. 

A  day  was  fixed  for  the  departure  of  Hahib  and  his 
spouse.  It  was  agreed  that  they  should  return  to  the 
little  retreat  where  they  first  arrived,  and  go  from  thence, 
Becretly,  by  the  same  means  of  conveyance  they  had  em- 
ployed in  coming  thither. 

Saiamis  and  Amirala  would  gladly  have  accompanied 
them,  that  they  might  enjoy  their  presence  as  lDng  as 
possible  ;  but  this  wo  ild  have  made  too  much  noise.    There 


528  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

are  many  things  of  which  the  people  should  be  kept  in 
ignomnce,  and  their  fondness  for  what  is  marvellous  often 
makes  them  forgetful  of  their  duty. 

The  youthful  pair,  with  tears  in  their  eyes,  took  a  most 
affectionate  leave  of  the  worthy  old  emir  and  his  spouse. 
They  concerted  means  of  communicating  with  each  other, 
so  as  to  render  their  separation  the  more  supportable. 
They  mounted  a  camel,  and  being  conducted  by  the  con- 
fidential groom,  returned  to  the  retreat.  Next  morning, 
before  day,  the  roc  bore  them  through  the  air  toward  the 
heights  of  Caucasus. 

Now  were  they  again  to  see  their  faithful  II  Haboul, 
and  fill  his  heart  with  joy,  by  a  recital  of  their  happy  ad- 
ventures. Habib  went  instantly  to  replace  the  talisman 
in  the  treasury  of  Solomon. 

At  the  entry  to  this  mysterious  cavern,  he  cast  his  eyes 
on  a  hieroglyphic  which  he  had  not  before  remarked.  It 
attracted  his  attention  so  much  that  he  fell  into  a  pro- 
found meditation.  "  These  are  emblematic  figures,"  said 
he  to  himself.  "Here  is  the  pure  expanse  of  heaven,  bril- 
liant with  light.  An  eagle  appears  to  rise  rapidly  in  her 
flight,  almost  to  the  sun's  disk,  while  an  enormous  serpent 
creeping  over  the  rocks,  reaches  the  nest  and  devours  the 
eggs  of  the  noble  bird." 

Habib  returned  with  a  pensive  air  to  his  instructor,  and 
told  him  the  subject  of  his  reflections,  describing  what  he 
had  seen. 

"  That  is  the  picture,"  said  II  Haboul;  "  but  what  is  the 
moral  of  it?"     "Methinks  I  comprehend  it,"  said  Habib. 

"  By  aspiring  to  too  great  an  elevation,  we  ai'e  in  danger 
of  being  flushed  with  prosperity,  and  of  losing  sight  of  our 
true  interests." 

"  Your  answer,"  said  II  Haboul,  "  is  worthy  of  my  old 
pupil.  None  pass  the  door  of  the  cavern  of  Solomon 
without  reaping  some  instruction.  Pity  it  is  that  we 
must  learn  those  maxims  of  wisdom,  one  by  one,  and  not 
all  at  once,  by  a  great  and  comprehensive  grasp  of 
thought !" 

They  dedicated  two  days  to  the  enjoyment  of  friendship, 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'"    ENTERTAINMENTS.  529 

ro  the  company  of  the  venerable  keeper  of  the  prophet's 
repositories  ;  the  roc  then  took  his  flight  to  the  White  Isle, 
and  also  to  the  Yellow  Isle,  where  the  exertions  of  the  old 
genie,  Ilbalhis,  had  in  some  measure  restored  an  appear- 
ance of  prosperity. 

The  royal  pair  next  found  themselves  in  the  little  court 
of  the  lady  of  the  beautiful  tresses  and  Dalilsha.  Every- 
thing here  announced  peace  and  abundance.  The  two 
daughters  of  the  sea  had  been  conducted  hither,  and  im- 
patiently expected  the  return  of  the  hero  to  whom  they 
had  so  obligingly  devoted  their  services;  especially  Ilzaide, 
who,  till  that  moment,  had  never  experienced  the  least 
ennui,  and  who  had  now  found  it  in  everything,  how 
much  soever  she  sought  to  avoid  it. 

Habib  and  his  queen  remained  a  few  days  with  their 
kind  relations,  and  returned  to  Medinaz-il-ballor,  carrying 
with  them  Ilzaide  and  her  sister,  by  a  route  through 
which  their  dolphins  could  not  follow  them. 

The  capital  islands  of  Dorathil-goase's  dominions  had 
now  every  appearance  of  a  happy  and  flourishing  state; 
and  the  return  of  their  king  and  queen  completed  the  joy 
of  the  inhabitants. 

The  youthful  couple,  who  were  still  lovers,  added  to  the 
mutual  felicity  they  enjoyed  in  each  other's  company,  the 
pleasure  of  contributing  by  every  means  in  their  power 
to  the  interest  and  welfare  of  their  people. 

Ulabousatrous,  too,  rejoiced  at  the  happiness  of  his 
family,  and  had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  his  grand 
project  rapidly  advance  toward  its  accomplishment. 

Every  day  produced  the  legitimate  union  of  a  genie 
with  one  of  the  children  of  Adam.  He  saw  them  submit 
to  a  law  which,  though  it  seemed  to  diminish  their  power, 
was,  nevertheless,  very  beneficial  to  them. 

Soon  after  their  arrival,  it  was  agreed  that  one  of  the 
daughters  of  the  sea  should  give  her  hand  to  a  kinsman 
of  Dorathil-goase.  It  was  also  proposed  that  Ilzaide 
should  marry. 

"With  whom  ?"  cried  she;  u  there  are  no  knights  here, 
46  2 1 


530  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

You   shall   send  me   to  Arabia ;   that  is  the  country    of 
heroes  I" 

"My  charming  girl,"  answered  Dorathil-goase,  "we 
shall  most  willingly  carry  you  there  when  we  return  to 
visit  our  worthy  parents  ;  but  thou  wert  born  in  the  sea, 
and  habituated  to  that  element;  how,  then,  could  you  live 
in  a  country  where  little  else  is  to  be  seen  than  vast 
plains  covered  with  dry  sand?"  "Love  can  make  every 
place  agreeable,"  returned  Ilzaide,  with  vivacity;  "even 
the  elements  are  subject  to  its  empire.  If  the  knight, 
your  dear  husband,  had  feared  them,  you  never  would 
have  possessed  him ;  and  could  I  hope  for  the  conquest  of 
such  a  heart,  I  think  I  could  equal  the  best  knight  of 
Arabia  in  resolution  and  generosity." 

THE    STORY   OP   THE   PRINCESS   PARIZADE  ;    OR,   THE   TALKING 
BIRD,    THE    SINGING    TREE,    AND    THE    YELLOW  WATER. 

There  was  a  king  of  Persia  named  Khosrouschah,  who 
came  very  young  to  the  crown.  When  he  grew  up,  in 
order  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  mankind,  he  determined 
to  adopt  the  practice  of  mingling  with  society  occasion- 
illy,  in  disguise,  attended  only  by  his  vizier.  One  of 
those  rambles  produced  a  very  interesting  adventure. 

As  he  was  passing  in  the  evening  through  a  street 
where  the  meaner  sort  of  people  dwelt,  his  attention 
was  engaged  by  some  loud  conversation  and  laughter. 
He  perceived  a  crack  in  the  door  of  the  house,  which  he 
looked  through,  and  saw  three  very  agreeable  young 
women  talking  together  with  much  earnestness  and 
mirth. 

"Might  I  have  my  wish,"  said  the  eldest,  "I  would 
marry  the  sultan's  baker:  I  should  then  every  day  have 
the  same  excellent  bread  which  is  served  at  the  sultan's 
table!"  "I,"  replied  the  second,  "would  choose  the  sul- 
tan's chief  cook  :  I  then,  no  doubt,  should  eat  of  those 
nice  dishes  which  he  prepares  for  his  master,  nor  should 
I  want  the  royal  bread  to  relish  them." 

After  they  had  entertained  themselves  with  their  wishes, 
they  called  upon  theii  vounger  sister  to  name  her  desires. 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  531 

'1  fchould  wish,"  said  she,  "to  be  the  wife  of  the  sultan 
himself,  and  make  him  father  of  a  prince  whose  hair 
should  be  gold  on  one  side  of  his  head;  and  silver  on  the 
other;  wben  he  cried,  the  tears  should  be  pearls;  and 
when  he  smiled,  his  vermilion  lips  should  look  like  a  rose- 
bud freBh  blown."  The  extravagance  of  this  wish  in- 
creased the  mirth  of  the  young  women.  The  sultan 
laughed  heartily  at  it,  and  having  ordered  the  vizier  to 
notice  the  house,  and  summon  the  inhabitants  to  appear 
before  him  at  the  divan  next  day,  he  pursued  his  walk. 

When  they  appeared  before  the  sultan,  they  were  so 
exceedingly  confounded  to  hear  him  question  them  about 
their  conversation  the  preceding  evening,  that  they  could 
make  him  no  answer.  He  told  them  that  he  had  heard 
their  wishes,  and  was  determined  to  gratify  them.  Ac- 
cordingly, he  gave  the  eldest  sister  to  his  chief  baker, 
and  the  second  to  his  chief  cook,  for  wives ;  and  they 
were  married  to  them  the  same  day,  with  such  ceremo- 
nies as  were  suitable  to  the  quality  of  their  husbands. 
But  the  younger  sister,  who  was  very  beautiful,  was  im- 
mediately clothed,  and  attended  as  became  a  great  queen ; 
and  the  royal  nuptials  were  solemnized  with  all  the  re- 
joicings usual  at  the  marriage  of  the  sultan  of  Persia. 

Before  these  events,  the  two  eldest  sisters  would  have 
•thought  it  great  good  fortune  to  have  become  the  wives 
of  the  sultan's  servants;  yet  they  now  pined  with  envy 
at  the  advancement  of  their  sister.  They  joined  in  an 
inveterate  hate  against  the  sultaness,  which  they  agreed 
to  conceal  till  some  opportunity  should  offer  to  ruin  her. 
In  the  meantime,  they  each  came  frequently  to  pay  court 
to  her,  and  always  expressed  the  greatest  joy  at  her 
exaltation. 

The  young  sultaness  really  loved  her  sisters,  and  had 
no  doubt  but  they  returned  her  love.  When  she  became 
pregnant,  they  requested  she  would  obtain  the  sultan's 
permission  for  them  to  perform  the  office  of  midwife. 
This  the  sultan  readily  granted.  The  wicked  sisters  re- 
joiced in  secret  at  this  appointment ;  they  laid  a  plot  as 
barbarous  as  it  was  unnatural ;  and  when  the  poor  sub 


532  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

taness  was  delivered,  they  conveyed  away  the  infa:  t  and 
produced  a  little  dead  dog,  which  they  said  their  sistei 
had  brought  forth.  The  sultan  heard  the  account  with 
great  grief,  and  some  resentment  against  his  wife  ;  wbich, 
however,  soon  gave  way  to  the  charms  and  good  qualities 
of  the  sultaness. 

The  merciless  sisters  conveyed  the  child,  who  was  a 
fine  boy,  into  a  basket,  and  set  it  afloat  on  a  stream  which 
ran  through  the  royal  garden.  The  intendant  of  the  gar- 
dens, who  was  one  of  the  most  considerable  officers  of 
the  kingdom,  chanced  to  see  the  basket,  which  he  caused 
to  be  brought  to  the  shore.  He  was  much  surprised  to 
find  in  it  a  fine  child. 

He  saw  that  it  came  not  far  from  the  sultaness's  apart- 
ment ;  but  conceiving  it  neither  his  business  nor  his 
interest  to  search  into  such  kind  of  secrets,  he  contented 
himself  with  conveying  the  infant  home,  and  as  he  had 
no  children  of  his  own,  he  determined  to  adopt  the  little 
foundling. 

The  year  after,  the  sultaness  was  brought  to  bed  of 
another  prince,  whom  her  vile  sisters  conveyed  as  before, 
and  produced  a  cat  as  their  sister's  offspring.  It  was 
with  difficulty  the  sultan  prevailed  on  himself  to  see  his 
unfortunate  wife,  after  this  second  accident ;  but  when, 
after  having  again  received  her  to  his  arms,  she  produced' 
a  mole  —  which  her  sisters  had  substituted  in  the  place  of 
a  beautiful  princess  —  the  sultan  set  no  bounds  to  his  in- 
dignation. "She  is  a  monster/'  said  he,  with  equal  fury 
and  detestation,  "and  will  fill  my  palace  with  monsters. 
I  will  rid  the  world  of  her."  By  the  interposition  of  the 
vizier,  the  sultan  was  induced  to  spare  the  life  of  his  un- 
happy spouse,  yet  he  ordered  her  to  be  exposed  three  days 
to  public  scorn,  and  then  shut  up  in  prison  for  the  rest  of 
her  life. 

The  two  infants  fortunately  fell  into  the  same  humane 
hands  which  had  preserved  their  brother.  The  intendant 
named  the  eldest  prince  Bahman  ;  the  other,  Perviz; 
and  the  princess,  Parizade.  He  regarded  them  as  children 
sent  to  him  by  Providence;  he  attached  himself  to  them 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  53S 

entirely;  he  watched  over  their  rising  years  "with  the 
solicitude  of  a  real  parent,  and  when  he  died,  which  was 
not  till  they  had  nearly  arrived  at  maturity,  he  left  them 
his  whole  fortune;  and  they  lamented  him  w. th  a  duty 
and  affection  truly  filial. 

The  fortune  they  inherited  from  their  foster-father  ena- 
bled the  princes  and  their  sister  to  live  together  very  com- 
fortably. They  passed  their  time  wholly  at  a  country 
residence  which  he  had  fitted  up  in  a  handsome  style. 
The  princes  devoted  many  of  their  hours  to  hunting; 
while  Parizade  cultivated,  by  turns,  elegant  amusements 
and  domestic  employment. 

As  there  was  no  mosque  in  the  neighborhood,  the  in- 
tendant  had  fitted  up  an  oratory  in  the  house.  One  day, 
when  the.  princes  were  engaged  in  their  sport,  an  old 
woman,  who  professed  public  and  extraordinary  piety, 
came  to  the  gate,  and  desired  leave  to  go  in  and  say  her 
prayers,  it  being  then  the  hour  of  public  worship.  She 
was  admitted,  and  when  she  had  finished  her  devotions, 
was  introduced  to  the  princess. 

Parizade  received  her  with  great  kindness,  commend- 
ing her  piety,  and  asking  her  many  questions  respecting 
her  way  of  life.  A  long  conversation  ensued,  in  the 
course  of  which  the  prineess  casually  asked  her  how  she 
liked  the  house.  "  It  is  in  everything  delightful,"  replied 
the  devotee;  "and  wants  but  three  things,  that  I  know 
of,  to  be  absolutely  complete."  "I  conjure  you,  my  good 
mother,"  said  the  princess,  "  to  tell  me  what  those  three 
things  are!"  "Madam,"  answered  the  old  woman,  "the 
first  is  a  talking  bird,  who  not  only  can  talk  and  reason 
like  us,  but  as  a  bird  can  call  all  the  singing  birds  in  his 
neighborhood  to  come  and  join  in  his  song.  The  second 
is  the  singing  tree,  the  leaves  of  which  are  so  many 
mouths,  which  form  a  most  harmonious  concert.  The 
third  is  the  yellow  water,  a  small  quantity  of  which  being 
put  into  a  basin,  fills  it,  and  forms  a  beautiful  fountain, 
which  continually  plays  without  overflowing.  These 
things  are  to  be  obtained  altogether  at  one  place  only, 
:»n  the  confines  of  this  kingdom  toward  India.  Any  ana 
45* 


534  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMEN  ""8. 

taking  the  road  before  your  house  for  twenty  days,  will 
find  a  person  who  can  direct  him  to  the  place  where  they 
may  be  found."  Having  said  this,  she  arose  and  bade  the 
princess  farewell. 

This  conversation  had  a  great  effect  on  Parizade ;  she 
entertained  the  most  eager  desire  to  obtain  these  curiosi- 
ties. V-She  was  musing  on  the  conversation  with  the  old 
woman,  when  her  brothers  returned,  and  wondered  to  see 
her  pensive  and  melancholy.  They  inquired  eagerly  what 
it  was  that  afflicted  her.  It  was  a  long  time  before  the 
princess  would  explain  the  mystery;  but  at  last  over- 
borne by  their  importunities,  she  told  them  what  had 
passed,  and  owned  that  her  desire  to  be  mistress  of  the 
talking  bird,  the  singing  tree,  and  the  yellow  water,  was 
the  cause  of  her  melancholy. 

The  princes  both  loved  their  sister  with  the  utmost  af- 
fection. Each  eagerly  offered  to  go  in  search  of  these  fine 
things  she  so  much  longed  for.  After  some  contest  it  was 
agreed  that  Prince  Bahman'  should  set  off  next  morning 
in  search  of  them.  "When  he  was  about  to  mount  his 
horse,  he  presented  a  knife  to  his  sister,  saying,  "  I  know 
not  what  difficulties,  or  what  delay  I  may  meet  with  in 
this  adventure;  but  that  my  dearest  sister  may  not  have 
unnecessary  fears  on  my  account,  I  present  this  knife  to 
her.  WhiU  the  blade  of  it  is  clean,  you  may  be  assured  ] 
am  well,  buo  if  ever  you  find  it  stained  with  blood,  you 
may  conclude  some  fatal  accident  hath  befallen  me." 

Prince  Bahman  took  the  road  to  India,  and  on  the 
twentieth  day  he  saw  a  dervis,  sitting  under  a  tree,  whose 
figure  attracted  his  notice.  His  hair  was  as  white  as 
snow;  his  moustaches  were  long,  and  with  his  beard, 
which  reached  down  to  his  waist,  entirely  hid  his  mouth. 
He  had  no  clothes,  but  had  an  old  mat  throwi  over  his 
shoulders. 

Bahman  concluded,  from  the  singularity  of  this  old 
man's  appearance,  that  he  was  the  person  who  was  to 
give  information  of  the  place  he  was  in  search  of.  He 
Blighted,  therefore,  from  his  horse,  and  saluted  the  old  man. 

The   dervis   returned   his   salute,   but    his   moustaches 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  535 

hanging  over  his  lips,  the  prince  could  not  understand  a 
word  he  said.  Bahman,  vexed  at  this  disappointment 
with  a  pair  of  scissors  cut  away  the  hair  which  hung  over 
the  old  man's  mouth,  which  he  took  in  good  part.  After 
thanking  the  prince  with  a  smile  for  the  trouble  he  had 
taken,  he  inquired  if  he  could  be  of  any  service  to  him. 
"I  am  come,"  said  Bahman,  "a  long  way,  in  search  of 
the  talking  bird,  the  singing  tree,  and  the  yellow  water. 
If  you  can  direct  me  where  they  are  to  be  found,  you  will 
render  me  much  service  and  pleasure." 

At  these  words  the  old  man  changed  countenance,  and 
said  to  the  prince,  "  I  can  indeed  direct  you  to  where 
these  fatal  curiosities  are  to  be  found ;  but  I  felt  a  regard 
for  you  as  soon  as  I  saw  you,  which  your  kindness  to  me 
has  increased.  I  entreat  you,  therefore,  to  cease  an  in- 
quiry which  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  refuse  answering,  if 
you  persist,  but  which  I  am  too  sure  will  end  in  your 
destruction." 

The  prince  persisting  in  his  resolution,  the  dervis  said. 
"Young  man,  the  danger  you  court  is  greater  than  you 
imagine;  many  gallant  gentlemen  have  I  directed  in  this 
search,  who  have  all  perished.  Your  courage  or  dexterity 
will  avail  you  nothing  ;  for  you  will  be  attacked  by  great 
numbers,  all  invisible.  How  then  can  you  hope  to  defend 
yourself? "  "  I  am  not  to  be  intimidated  from  my  pur- 
pose," replied  Bahman  ;  "  and  since  you  are  obliged  to 
give  me  the  information  I  require,  I  demand  it  of  you." 

When  the  dervis  saw  the  prince  thus  peremptory,  he 
took  a  bowl  out  of  the  bag  that  lay  by  him,  and  presented 
it  to  him,  saying,  "  Mount  your  horse,  then,  rash  youth, 
and  throw  this  on  the  ground.  Follow  it  till  it  comes  to 
the  foot  of  a  mountain,  where  it  will  stop.  You  must 
then  alight,  and  ascend  the  mountain  on  foot;  but  be 
careful  not  to  give  way  to  fear,  or  to  look  behind  you. 
The  instant  you  do,  you  will  cease  to  be  a  man,  and  will 
add  one  more  to  the  multitude  of  black  stones  which  you 
will  see  on  every  side  ;  all  of  which  were  once  gentlemen 
engaged  in  the  same  enterprise.  If  you  reach  the  summit 
of  the  mountain,  you  will  obtain  the  furiosi  ties  you  inquire 
af<er." 


536  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS 

The  prince  rejoiced  to  find  he  was  so  near  the  end  of 
his  journey.  Having  returned  thanks  to  the  dervis,  he 
threw  down  the  bowl,  which  rolled  on  gently  before  him 
till  it  reached  the  foot  of  a  mountain.  Bahman  prepared 
to  ascend  it,  but  he  had  not  advanced  four  steps  before  he 
heard  innumerable  voices,  bursting  out  as  it  seemed  from 
under  the  earth.  Of  these,  some  ridiculed,  some  abused, 
and  others  threatened  him.  "  Where  is  that  rash  youth 
going?  What  would  he  have?  Stop  him,  catch  him;  ah! 
thief,  murderer,  villain  !  No!  let  the  fool  go  on  till  he  is 
destroyed.  Let  pretty  master  pass,  to  be  sure ;  we  keep 
the  bird  for  him,  no  doubt!"  Such,  and  many  other 
worse  expressions  assailed  him,  in  voices  calculated  to  in- 
spire shame,  anger,  and  dismay. 

As  the  prince  advanced,  the  clamor  increased,  attended 
with  execrations  and  threatenings  on  all  sides.  It  became 
at  last  so  tremendous,  that  Bahman's  courage  and.strength 
failed  him  ;  his  legs  sunk  under  him,  he  reeled,  his  recol- 
lection forsook  him,  and,  turning  round  to  run  down  the  hill, 
he  was  at  that  instant  changed  into  a  black  stone. 

From  the  time  of  Prince  Bahman's  departure,  Parizade 
had  worn  his  knife  in  her  girdle  ;  and  many  times  in  a  day 
she  pulled  it  out  to  know  how  it  fared  with  her  brother. 
On  the  fatal  day,  when  he  was  thus  metamorphosed,  as 
she  was  talking  to  her  brother  Perviz,  she  recollected 
Bahman  ;  and  pulling  out  the  knife,  she  saw  with  grief 
and  horror,  blood  running  down  to  the  point  of  it.  She 
swooned  away  at  the  shocking  sight;  and  when  she  was 
with  difficulty  recovered,  she  brcke  out  in  the  severest 
self-reproach  for  having  engaged  a  beloved  brother  in  such 
an  unfortunate  enterprise.  And  while  she  blamed  her 
own  inordinate  desires,  she  failed  not  to  execrate  the  old 
woman,  whose  report  had  led  her  into  so  mischievous  an 
error. 

Prince  Perviz  was  greatly  afflicted  at  the  fate  of  his 
brother.  He  was  also  exceedingly  fond  of  his  sister;  and 
perceived  that  in  the  midst  of  her  sorrow,  though  she  la- 
mented the  loss  of  Bahman,  her  desire  to  possess  the  talk- 
ing bird,  and  singing  tree,  and  the  yellow  water,  was  still 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  531 

undiminished.  Ho  embraced  Parizade  with  great  affec- 
tion, and  told  her  that,  though  Bahman  had  failed  in  search 
of  them,  he  had  a  presentiment  that  he  should  be  more 
successful.  He  presented  her  with  a  necklace  consisting 
of  an  hundred  pearls,  and  said,  "  I  will  set  out  this  instant. 
While  these  pearls  continue  to  run  freely,  you  may  be 
sure  I  am  safe  ;  but  if  ever  they  remain  fixed  together,  you 
will  then  know  that  I  have  shared  the  same  fate  as  out 
dear  brother." 

Parizade  endeavored,  by  tears  and  entreaties,  to  prevent 
the  prince  from  attempting  so  dangerous  an  undertaking; 
but  in  vain.  He  mounted  his  horse,  and  on  the  twentieth 
day  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  dervis  was  sitting.  He 
3aluted  him,  and  inquired  the  way  to  the  curiosities  he 
was  seeking.  The  dervis  acquainted  him  with  the  diffi- 
culty and  clanger  of  the  adventure;  pressing  him  very 
earnestly  to  decline  an  attempt  in  which  so  many  had 
failed.  When  he  found  the  prince  was  determined  to  go 
on,  he  gave  him  the  same  advice  and  instruction  he  had 
given  to  his  brother.  Perviz  returned  him  thanks,  and 
throwing  the  bowl  on  the  ground,  he  followed  it  till  he 
came  to  the  foot  of  the  mountain. 

Having  alighted,  he  paused  a  little  while  to  recollect  the 
instructions  of  the  dervis.  He  then  passed  through  those 
clamors,  which  had  overcome  Bahman,  undismayed ;  but 
as  he  proceeded  up  the  mountain,  he  heard  a  voice  behind 
him  call  out  in  a  most  insulting  tone,  "  Stay,  rash  boy,  that 
1  may  punish  your  impudent  attempt!"  Perviz,  enraged 
at  such  an  affront,  drew  his  sword,  and  turning  round  to 
chastise  the  insulter,  became  a  stone. 

Parizade  had  the  string  of  pearls  continually  in  her 
hand,  from  the  time  Perviz  set  out,  and  was  counting 
them  at  the  moment  he  underwent  the  transformation. 
On  a  sudden  she  found  she  could  not  separate  the  pearls. 
As  the  princess  had  resolved  what  to  do,  if  such  an  event 
should  take  place,  she  lost  no  time  in  fruitless  grief:  out 
putting  on  a  man's  apparel,  she  mounted  a  horse,  and  took 
*he  same  road  her  brothers  had  gone. 

On  the  twentieth  day  she  came  to  the  dervis;  who,  not- 


b38  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

withstanding  her  disguise,  knew  her  to  be  a  woman,  and 
gave  her  such  an  account  of  the  difficulty  of  her  attempt, 
as  almost  shook  her  resolution.  She  mused  a  short  time; 
Dut  remembering  she  had  lost  her  two  brothers  in  searching 
after  these  rarities,  she  resolved  to  succeed,  or  share  in 
their  misfortunes. 

Parizade  received  therefore  the  bowl  from  the  dervis, 
and  followed  it  to  the  foot  of  the  mountain.  Before  she 
began  to  ascend  it,  she  considered,  that  as  the  greatest 
danger  arose  from  noises  and  voices  which  would  endeavor 
to  terrify  her,  if  she  could  shut  out  these  sounds  by 
stopping  her  ears,  their  effect  must  fail.  Accordingly,  she 
stuffed  her  ears  full  of  cotton,  and  then  began  to  ascend 
the  mountain.  She  heard  indeed  a  great  noise,  which 
increased  exceedingly  as  she  advanced,  and  became  at 
length  so  loud  that  the  air  and  earth  seemed  to  shake  with 
it ;  but  the  pi  ecaution  she  had  taken  shut  out  distinct 
sounds,  and  ail  she  perceived  was  one  confused  noise, 
which  no  way  incommoded  her. 

Now  and  then  a  single  voice,  louder  than  the  rest,  would 
utter  expressions  of  which  she  could  not  help  catching  a 
few  words,  which  were  very  disagreeable  to  her;  but  these 
she  despised,  saying  to  herself,  "I  mind  not  what  is  said. 
I  laugh  at  it,  and  shall  pursue  my  journey." 

At  last  the  princess  came  in  sight  of  the  bird.  At  that 
instant  one  of  the  cotton  plugs  fell  out  of  her  ear.  The 
threatenings  and  execrations,  which  she  now  heard  dis- 
tinctly, were  terrible.  The  bird  himself,  in  a  voice  more 
tremendous  than  all  of  them,  called  out  to  her  to  go  back, 
promising  at  the  same  time  that  she  should  return  in 
safety.  But  the  sight  of  the  bird  animated  the  courage 
of  the  princess.  She  pressed  forward  boldly,  till  she  came 
to  the  top  of  the  mountain,  when  the  noises  ceased,  and 
the  ground  was  level.  She  ran  to  the  cage  and  seized  it, 
saying,  "Bird,  I  have  got  thee  in  spite  of  thee.  Thou 
eh  alt  not  escape  me." 

The  bird  in  a  very  handsome  manner  complimented  the 
princess  on  her  courage  and  perseverance.  "It  was  my 
wish,"  said  he,  "to  have  continued  free;  but  as  I  must  be 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  539 

a  slave,  I  had  rather  be  so  to  you,  brave  lady,  than  to  any 
other.  From  this  instant  I  swear  an  entire  fidelity  tc 
yon  ;  and  the  time  is  not  far  off  when  I  shall  do  you  an 
essential  service." 

Parizade  rejoiced  greatly  at  her  success;  for  the  fatigue 
and  terror  she  had  undergone  far  exceeded  what  she  had 
expected  from  the  report  of  the  dervis.  As  soon  as  she 
was  a  little  recovered,  she  demanded  of  the  bird,  where 
the  singing  tree  and  yellow  water  were  to  be  found.  The 
bird  directed  her  to  both.  The  princess  filled  a  small  sil- 
ver flagon  with  the  water,  and  by  the  advice  of  the  bird, 
broke  off  a  branch  of  the  singing  tree  to  carry  home 
with  her. 

Parizade  had  now  obtained  the  three  things  she  so 
much  wished  for;  yet  she  was  unhappy.  The  loss  of  her 
brothers  sat  heavy  at  her  heart.  She  applied  to  the  bird 
to  know  if  it  was  possible  to  dissolve  the  enchantment. 
It  was  with  much  reluctance  that  the  bird  answered  this 
inquiry ;  but  the  princess  was  peremptory,  and  could  not 
be  denied. 

"Take,  then,"  said  he,  "that  little  pitcher  you  see  yon- 
der, and  drop  some  of  the  water  it  holds  upon  every  black 
Btone.  The  princess  did  so;  and  when  the  water  fell  on 
the  stone,  it  vanished,  and  a  man  appeared.  The  princess 
took  care  mot  to  miss  a  single  stone.  She  was  so  happy 
as  to  find  among  them  both  her  brothers,  who  joined  the 
other  gentlemen  in  thanking  and  extolling  their  deliverer. 

When  they  came,  on  their  return,  to  the  cave  of  the 
dervis,  tbejr  found  he  was  dead.  In  a  few  days  they 
arrived  at  home,  when  Parizade  placed  the  cage  in  the 
garden,  and  as  soon  as  the  bird  began  to  sing,  he  was  sur- 
rounded by  a  great  number  of  nightingales,  chaflrnches, 
linnets,  and  other  birds  of  song,  who,  uniting  their  har- 
mony with  his,  produced  a  wonderful  effect.  She  planted 
the  branch  of  the  singing  tree  in  another  part  of  the  gar- 
den, when  it  immediately  took  root,  and  became  as  large 
a  tree  as  that  from  whence  it  was  gathered,  and  the  leaves 
produced  the  same  melodious  concert.     The  si.ver  flagon 


540  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of  the  yellow  water  being  emptied  into  a  large  marblo 
basin,  increased  directly  to  sucb  a  quantity  as  entirely  to 
fill  it,  and  form  a  fine  fountain  twenty  feet  high,  which, 
while  it  played  very  beautifully,  dispersed  the  most  agree- 
able odors  all  around  it. 

Soon  after  these  events,  the  sultan  of  Persia  chanced  to 
be  hunting  in  their  neighborhood.  The  princes  also  were 
engaged  in  the  chase.  As  they  knew  not  the  person  of 
the  sultan,  they  joined  his  party  without  ceremony,  and 
in  the  course  of  the  hunt  Bahman  attacked  a  lion,  and 
Perviz  a  bear,  with  so  much  courage  and  agility  as  greatly 
pleased  the  sultan.  After  the  hunt,  he  conversed  with 
them,  and  was  still  more  taken  with  them.  He  declared 
who  he  was,  and  invited  the  brothers  to  court.  That 
they  might  not  forget  the  engagement,  he  put  three 
golden  bullets  into  each  of  their  bosoms.  ""When  you 
undress,"  said  he,  "they  will  fall  to  the  ground,  and  their 
sound  will  remind  you  of  my  invitation." 

The  princes  presented  themselves  the  next  day  before 
the  sultan,  and  were  received  by  him  with  great  dis- 
tinction. Before  they  withdrew,  they  related  to  him  their 
adventure  in  search  of  the  talking  bird,  the  singing  tree, 
and  the  yellow  water;  and  of  their  deliverance  through 
the  fortitude  of  Parizade.  The  monarch  heard  their 
account  with  great  pleasure.  "  I  will  come  to-morrow," 
said  he,  "  to  see  these  rarities,  and  converse  with  your 
sister,  to  whose  courage  and  good  conduct  you  are  so 
much  indebted." 

When  the  princes  returned  home,  and  told  Parizade  the 
sultan's  intention,  she  consulted  her  bird  as  to  the  manner 
in  which  she  ought  to  receive  him.  The  bird,  after  some 
general  advice,  desired  she  would  not  fail  to  prepare  a 
dish  of  cucumbers  stuffed  full  of  pearls,  to  be  set  before 
the  sultan  with  the  first  course.  The  princess  was 
amazed,  but  the  bird  persisted  in  his  advice,  and  told  her 
in  what  pai't  of  the  garden  she  might  find  a  coffer  full  of 
pearls  suited  tc  such  a  purpose.  The  princess  perceived 
there  was  some  mystery  concealed  under  this  advice.    She 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS.  5  il 

caused  the  gardener  to  dig  in  the  spot  described,  and 
found  a  gold  box  full  of  pearls.  Hence  her  confidence  in 
the  bird  was  increased,  and  she  was  resolved  to  dc  as  he 
directed. 

The  day  following,  the  sultan  came  to  the  house  of  his 
unknown  children,  and  was  received  by  them  with  all 
possible  respect.  He  was  more  pleased  with  Parizade 
than  he  had  been  with  her  brothers,  and  could  not  help 
heaving  a  sigh  when  it  occurred  to  him  that  he  might 
have  been  the  happy  father  of  three  such  children  if  he 
had  not  been  so  unfortunate  in  the  choice  of  a  sultaness. 

After  the  sultan  had  reposed,  the  princess  attended  him 
into  the  garden,  and  showed  him  the  singing  tree,  and 
the  yellow  water.  The  sultan  examined  these  extraordi- 
nary curiosities  with  great  attention  and  delight.  Pari- 
zade then  conducted  him  to  a  tree  where  the  cage  of  the 
talking  bird  was  hung.  The  sultan  was  surprised  to  see 
such  a  multitude  of  other  birds  on  the  adjacent  trees,  aLl 
singing  in  concert  with  the  talking  bird,  whose  notes  wero 
louder  and  more  musical  than  any  of  them.  When  they 
drew  near,  the  princess  said,  "My  slave,  here  is  the  sultan 
of  Persia ;  pay  your  compliments  to  him."  The  bird  left 
off  singing,  and  replied,  "  God  prosper*him,  and  prolong 
his  days."  To  which  the  sultan  replied,  "Bird,  I  thank 
thee,  and  am  overjoyed  to  find  in  thee  the  sultan  and  king 
of  birds." 

At  the  request  of  her  royal  guest,  Parizade  caused  the 
cage  to  be  removed  into  the  hall,  that  he  might  converse 
with  the  bird  during  dinner.  As  soon  as  they  were  seated, 
the  sultan  took  a  cucumber  out  of  the  dish,  and  cutting 
it,  he  found  it  was  stuffed  with  pearls.  He  looked  with 
wonder  on  the  princes  and  their  sister,  and  was  about  to 
ask  the  meaning  of  the  mystery,  when  the  bird  called  out, 
"  Can  your  majesty  wonder  to  see  a  cucumber  stuffed  with 
pearls,  and  yet  could  believe  that  your  sultanesn  was  de- 
livered of  a  dog,  a  cat,  and  a  mole?  Credukius  man! 
how  have  you  abused  your  unfortunate  wife,  who  has 
fallen  a  sacrifice  to  the  envy  of  her  wicked  sisters !  These 
4G 


542  ARABIAN    NIGHTS'    ENTERTAINMENTS. 

three  young  people  are  your  children.  Their  lives  were 
preserved  by  the  intendant  of  your  gardens ;  and  their 
many  virtues  and  great  accomplishments  will  make  the 
remainder  of  your  days  more  happy  than  you  deserve." 

This  discourse  of  the  bird  excited  a  variety  of  passionH 
in  the  breast  of  the  sultan  :  pity  for  his  unhappy  consort, 
rage  against  her  vile  sisters,  wonder  at  the  strange  and 
singular  means  of  discovering  their  guilt,  by  turns  pos- 
sessed him.  All  these  ideas  soon  gave  way,  for  a  time, 
to  the  feelings  of  paternal  love;  he  embraced  the  princes 
and  their  sister  with  the  utmost  tenderness,  and  with 
tears  of  joy  owned  them  for  his  children  and  heirs  of  his 
crown. 

When  the  sultan  returned  to  his  palace,  he  gave  orders 
for  the  sisters  of  the  sultaness  to  be  brought  before  him. 
As  so  many  years  had  passed  over  without  suspicion, 
these  women  had  long  thought  themselves  secure,  and 
rejoiced  in  the  success  of  their  malicious  wickedness. 
They  were  astonished  at  being  charged  with  crimes 
which  could  not  have  been  discovered  now  by  any  ordi- 
nary means.  Their  guilt  and  terror  confounded  them; 
they  made  ample  confession  ;  and  the  sultan  ordered  them 
immediately  to  be^jut  to  death. 

Khosrouschah  caused  his  much  injured  wife  to  be  set  at 
liberty,  and  having  informed  her  of  all  that  had  happened, 
he  ordered  their  children  to  be  introduced  to  her.  These 
events  made  the  poor  sultaness  some  amends  for  her  long 
and  dismal  confinement.  The  joy  of  the  sultan  was  in- 
expressible, and  the  rejoicings  which  followed  all  over  the 
kingdom  showed  that  the  people  were  highly  interested 
in  a  discovery  which  was  so  satisfactory  to  their  sovereign. 

CONCLUSION. 

The  sultan  of  the  Indies  could  not  but  admire  the  mem- 
ory of  his  sultaness,  who  had  now  for  a  thousand  and  one 
nights  entertained  him  with  these  agreeable  stories.  Her 
beauty,  her  courage,  her  patriotism  in  exposing  her  life  to 
his  unreasonable  revenge,  had  long  since  obtained  for  her 


ARABIAN    NIGHTS     ENTERTAINMENTS. 


513 


the  possession  of  his  heart.  lie  determined  to  renounce 
a  vow  so  unworthy  of  him  ;  and  summoning  his  council, 
he  declared  to  them  his  resolution,  and  ordered  the  sul- 
taness  to  be  considered  as  the  deliverer  of  the  many  vir- 
gins who,  but  for  her,  would  have  been  sacrificed  to  his 
unjust  resentment. 

The  news  of  this  happy  event  soon  spread  abroad,  and 
gained  the  charming  Scheherazade  the  blessings  of  all  t\\« 
large  empire  of  the  Indies. 


-?hJ.IK)4,  #<$H,  JV2  \q 


A 


