■•:• 


UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


UNIVERSITY  COLLEGE 


Clifton  Fadiman  :  Sinclair  Lewis  :  Carl  Van  Dor  en 


THE     THREE     READERS 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/threereadersomniOOfadi 


Clifton  Fadiman  :  Sinclair  Lewis  :  Carl  Van  Dor  en 

The  Three  Readers 

AN  OMNIBUS  OF  NOVELS,  STORIES,  ESSAYS  &  POEMS 

SELECTED  WITH  COMMENTS  BY  THE  EDITORIAL 

COMMITTEE  OF  THE  READERS  CLUB 


1943 
THE  PRESS  OF  THE  READERS  CLUB,  NEW  YORK 


THIS  BOOK  IS  COPYRIGHT,  1943,  BY  THE  PRESS 
OF  THE  READERS  CLUB.  THE  MATERIAL  INCLUDED 
IN  THE  ANTHOLOGY  IS  HELD  IN  COPYRIGHT  BY 
VARIOUS  AUTHORS  AND  PUBLISHERS,  FROM 
WHOM  SPECIAL  PERMISSIONS  HAVE  BEEN  OB- 
TAINED. A  LIST  OF  THESE  COPYRIGHTS  WILL  BE 
FOUND    ON    PAGE   IX. 


k 


V 


DEDICATED  TO  THE  MEMORY  OF 

Alexander  Woollcott 


The  Contents 


A  PREFACE:  THREE  LETTERS  TO  GEORGE page     xi 

in  which  the  editors  of  this  volume  respond  to  the  request 
that  they  comment  upon  the  literary  tastes  shown  in  the 
contents 


SECTION  I:  Selected  by  CLIFTON  FADIMAN 

INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS page       3 

BACK  FOR  CHRISTMAS page     11 

a  story  by  john  collier 

BATS page     16 

a  naturalist's  adventure  by  ivan  t.  Sanderson 

A  SIMPLE  HEART page    41 

a  story  by  gustave  flaubert 

BENZOIN  FOR  THE  TURBINATES page     69 

an  essay  by  st.  clair  mc  kelway 

SEPTEMBER  1,  1939 page     79 

a  poem  by  w.  h.  auden 

OF  THIS  TIME,  OF  THAT  PLACE page     82 

a  story  by  Lionel  trilling 

SEA  RAIDER page  116 

the  text  of  a  broadcast  made  by  frank  laskier 

ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE page  118 

a  fantasy  by  s.  c.  Roberts 

THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  NORTH  AMERICA page  141 

an  historical  essay  by  Arnold  j.  toynbee 

MONOLOGUE  D'OUTRE  TOMBE page  150 

by  an  Unknown  Author 

THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS page  152 

a  short  story  by  e.  m.  forster 

THE  SEA-COW page  166 

an  essay  by  john  steinbeck  and  edward  f.  ricketts 

RULES  FOR  JUDICIAL  CONDUCT page  168 

drawn  up  by  sir  matthew  hale,  kt. 

vii 


viii  THE  CONTENTS 

SECTION  II:  Selected  by  SINCLAIR  LEWIS 

INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS  page  173 

THE  HILL page  179 

a  short  novel  by  eleanor  green 

COUNTRY  PEOPLE  page  235 

a  short  novel  by  ruth  suckow 

SECTION  III:  Selected  by  CARL  VAN  DOREN 

INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS  page  321 

THOMAS  JEFFERSON  TO  MARIA  COSWAY page  325 

the  love  letter  of  a  philosopher 

THE  FABLE  OF  THE  FOOZLE  8c  THE  SUCCESSFUL 

APPROACH  page  335 

a  fable  by  george  ade 

THE  DEATH  OF  ARROWSMITH page  336 

an  auto-obituary  by  Sinclair  lewis 

A  PREFACE  TO  MY  POEMS page  339 

an  essay  by  george  santayana 

HU  SHIH'S  MUSKETEER page  343 

a  "profile"  by  john  bainbridge 

THOREAU  page  355 

an  essay  by  ralph  waldo  emerson 

THE  SWAMP  FOX page  371 

a  poem  by  william  gilmore  simms 

THE  PELICAN'S  SHADOW page  374 

a  story  by  marjorie  kinnan  rawlings 

REVERIE  OF  SPACE  AND  TIME page  381 

an  essay  by  Herman  melville 

A  WINTER  DIARY page  384 

a  novel  in  verse  by  mark  van  doren 

DAYBREAK   page  415 

a  radio-play  by  norm  an  corwin 


THE  CONTENTS  ix 

ON  A  FOREST  DRAMA page  429 

a  note  by  MR.  van  doren 

A  TREATY  HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS, 
AT  CARLISLE,  IN  OCTOBER  1753 page  435 


Acknowledgments 


Acknowledgment  for  permission  to  reprint  selections  in  this  volume  is  gratefully 
given  to  the  following:  George  Ade,  for  The  Fable  of  the  Foozle  &  the  Successful  Ap- 
proach. John  Bainbridge  and  The  New  Yorker,  for  Hp,  Shih's  Musketeer  by  John  Bain- 
bridge;  copyright,  1942,  by  The  New  Yorker.  Brandt  &  Brandt,  for  The  Pelican's 
Shadow  by  Marjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings;  copyright,  1940,  by  The  New  Yorker.  John 
Collier  and  The  New  Yorker,  for  Back  for  Christmas  by  John  Collier;  copyright,  1939, 
by  The  New  Yorker.  Doubleday,  Doran  and  Company,  for  The  Hill  by  Eleanor  Green; 
copyright,  1936,  by  Doubleday,  Doran  and  Company.  Esquire,  Inc.,  for  The  Death  of 
Arrowsmith  by  Sinclair  Lewis;  copyright,  1941,  by  Esquire,  Inc.,  919  North  Michigan 
Avenue,  Chicago  (Coronet,  July  1941).  Farrar  &  Rinehart,  Inc.,  publishers,  for  Country 
People  by  Ruth  Suckow;  copyright,  1924,  by  Ruth  Suckow.  Harper  &  Brothers,  for  the 
excerpt  from  Three  Worlds  by  Carl  Van  Doren;  copyright,  1936,  by  Carl  Van  Doren. 
Henry  Holt  and  Company,  for  Daybreak,  reprinted  from  Thirteen  by  Corwin;  copyright, 
1942,  by  Norman  Corwin.  Henry  Holt  and  Company,  for  A  Winter  Diary,  reprinted  from 
Collected  Poems  by  Mark  Van  Doren;  copyright,  1939,  by  Mark  Van  Doren.  B.  R.  John- 
stone and  The  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania,  for  material  from  the  Indian  Trea- 
ties Printed  by  Benjamin  Franklin.  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc.,  for  The  Celestial  Omnibus,  re- 
printed from  The  Celestial  Omnibus  and  Other  Stories  by  E.  M.  Forster,  by  permission 
of  and  special  arrangement  with  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc.  The  Macmillan  Company,  for 
Zuleika  in  Cambridge  by  S.  C.  Roberts.  Major  St.  Clair  McKelway  and  The  New 
Yorker  for  Benzoin  for  the  Turbinates  by  St.  Clair  McKelway;  copyright,  1941,  by  The 
New  Yorker.  W.  W.  Norton  &  Company,  Inc.,  for  Sea  Raider,  reprinted  from  My  Name 
Is  Frank  by  Frank  Laskier,  published  by  W.  W.  Norton  &  Company,  Inc.,  70  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York.  Oxford  University  Press,  for  The  Struggle  for  North  America,  reprinted 
from  A  Study  of  History,  Vol.  II,  by  Arnold  J.  Toynbee.  Random  House,  for  Septem- 
ber 1,  1939,  reprinted  from  Another  Time:  Poems  by  W.  H.  Auden;  copyright,  1940,  by 
W.  H.  Auden.  Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  for  George  Santayana's  Preface  to  his  Poems; 
copyright,  1901,  1923,  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons.  Lionel  Trilling  and  the  Partisan 
Review,  for  Of  this  Time,  of  that  Place  by  Lionel  Trilling;  originally  published  in 
the  Partisan  Review,  January-February,  1943.  The  Viking  Press,  Inc.,  for  Bats,  re- 
printed from  Animal  Treasure  by  Ivan  T.  Sanderson;  copyright,  1937,  by  Ivan  T. 
Sanderson.  The  Viking  Press,  Inc.,  for  the  excerpt  from  Sea  of  Cortez  by  John  Stein- 
beck and  E.  F.  Ricketts;  copyright,  1941,  by  John  Steinbeck  and  E.  F.  Ricketts. 


A  Preface:  Three  Letters  to  George 

IN  WHICH  THE  EDITORS  OF  THIS  VOLUME  RESPOND  TO 

THE  REQUEST  THAT  THEY  COMMENT  UPON  THE 

LITERARY  TASTES  SHOWN  IN  THE  CONTENTS 


1.     FROM  MR.  FADIMAN: 

Dear  george:  I  am  grateful  for  the  chance  to  explain  to  the  patient 
members  of  The  Readers  Club  the  handicaps  under  which  I 
labor  in  my  pitiful  attempt  to  work  in  harmony  with  two  such  lit- 
erary Pooh-Bahs  as  Carl  Van  Doren  and  Sinclair  Lewis. 

In  the  first  place,  both  Van  Doren  and  Lewis  have  read  at  least 
twenty  times  as  many  books  as  I  have.  This  in  itself  would  not  be  so 
bad  were  it  not  that  neither  Van  Doren  nor  Lewis  has  learned  to 
conceal  his  knowledge  one-tenth  as  expertly  as  I  have  learned  to  con- 
ceal my  ignorance.  When,  in  the  course  of  one  of  our  conferences  in 
the  book-lined  living  room  of  the  mellow  Macy  menage,  Van  Doren 
and  Lewis  loftily  bat  back  and  forth  the  titles  of  volumes  I  have  never 
even  heard  of,  what  is  a  short-memoried  junior  like  myself— born 
only  yesterday  in  1904— to  do?  Obviously,  one  thing  only:  make  up 
my  own  book-titles,  authors,  plots,  and  what  have  you.  The  result 
is  that  our  conference  is  apt  to  consist  of  two-thirds  erudition  (Van 
Doren,  Lewis)  and  one-third  sheer  invention  (Fadiman).  The  strain 
on  my  creative  faculty  is  slowly  becoming  unbearable.  So  far  I  have 


XI 


xii  A  PREFACE: 

been  saved  from  a  breakdown  only  by  the  gullibility  of  Van  Doren 
and  Lewis.  But  I  cannot  assume  that  this  is  inexhaustible. 

Now,  George,  this  is  not  the  only  handicap  under  which  you  make 
me  labor.  There  is  that  matter  of  photographs.  Under  the  terms  of 
my  contract— which,  as  you  recollect,  I  signed  after  you  had  applied 
an  acetylene  torch  for  an  hour  and  a  half  to  the  soles  of  my  feet— you 
are  entitled  to  use  my  picture  in  those  coy  advertisements  of  yours. 
This  not  only  shows  inept  business  judgment  on  your  part,  but  causes 
me  acute  distress.  The  fact  is  that  Van  Doren  looks  exactly  like  the 
sort  of  fellow  he  is— a  wise,  serene  galoot  of  almost  intolerable  charm, 
with  a  ruggedly  handsome  face  irresistible  to  any  woman  over  the 
age  of  four.  As  for  Lewis,  while  he  is  no  Victor  Mature,  he  also  looks 
like  what  he  is— one  of  those  irritating  geniuses  who  can  penetrate 
your  soul  with  half  a  glance,  and  sum  up  your  entire  character  in  a 
confounded  immortal  phrase.  Now,  next  to  these  unforgettable 
visages  is  placed  my  own.  Lewis  once  said  of  me  (he  didn't  even  have 
the  grace  to  say  it  behind  my  back)  that  I  looked  like  an  amiable 
floorwalker— and,  by  God,  the  man,  as  usual,  was  right!  Of  what  avail 
are  all  my  moral  and  mental  virtues  when  my  photograph  reveals  the 
placid  countenance  of  a  slightly  overfed,  slightly  bald  young  man 
who  looks  as  if  he  had  never  encountered  an  idea  in  his  life?  Me, 
with  all  that  wild  poetry  pent  up  beneath  the  vest  which  one  of  these 
days  I  will  yet  constrain  to  meet  the  top  of  my  trousers. 

Now,  George,  one  more  thing.  These  two  world-celebrated  col- 
leagues of  mine  are  disturbing  my  sleep.  It  so  happens  that  in  his 
salad  days  Lewis  wrote  a  novel  called  Free  Air  which,  I  am  reluc- 
tantly compelled  to  admit,  is  a  very  fetching  book.  It  did  not,  how- 
ever, enjoy  the  sale  that  those  other  trifles— some  oddments  called 
Main  Street  and  Arrowsmith  and  Babbitt— achieved.  By  the  same 
token,  Van  Doren  a  few  years  ago  wrote  a  study  of  Jonathan  Swift 
which  by  some  accident  happens  to  be  the  best  book  on  Swift  in 
English.  It,  too,  never  became  a  best-seller. 

Well,  you'd  think  these  two  literary  tycoons  would  be  willing  to 
let  sleeping  books  lie.  Not  on  your  life.  Naturally,  they  haven't  the 
nerve,  the  cravens,  to  try  to  bring  pressure  on  me  directly.  They've 
worked  out  something  much  subtler.  About  once  a  week,  Van  Doren 
floats  into  my  dreams  and  apropos  of  nothing  at  all,  seems  to  say, 
"By  the  way,  you  know  Lewis'  early  novel  Free  Air}  Damn  fine  book. 
Seems  a  shame  we  can't  issue  it  as  a  Readers  Club  choice,  just  because 
Lewis  is  a  member  of  the  Editorial  Committee."  Then  the  next  night 
the  wraith  of  Lewis  will  uncoil  itself,  interrupt  my  sound  sleep,  and 
give  me  the  same  selling  talk  about  Van  Doren's  Swift. 


THREE  LETTERS  TO  GEORGE      xiii 

George,  I  warn  you  that  if  these  two  conniving  politicians  continue 
to  spoil  my  well-earned  rest,  if  they  succeed  in  working  on  my  sub- 
conscious so  as  to  force  me  to  join  them  in  their  nefarious  schemes 
to  unload  their  early  books  on  our  innocent  membership,  I  shall  in 
turn  force  you  (on  pain  of  letting  your  ration  board  know  about 
those  three  cans  of  asparagus  in  your  cellar)  to  print  some  extraordi- 
nary love  poems  I  once  wrote.  It's  true,  I  was  only  twelve  at  the  time. 
But  did  you  ever  hear  of  Chatterton?  Clifton  Fadiman 

2.     FROM  MR.  LEWIS: 

Dear  george:  There  is  a  foolish  sort  of  notion  that,  to  start  off  this 
first  anthology  edited  by  the  Three  Readers  with  fireworks  and 
pleasant  agony,  we  are  each  of  us  to  write  you  a  letter  belittling  and 
bedeviling  the  other  two.  I  am  to  be  humorous  and  pretty  derogatory 
about  Clifton  Fadiman  and  Carl  Van  Doren,  and  to  hint  that  per- 
sonally I  am  a  very  dependable  judge  of  books  but  I  have  had  to  put 
up  with  their  bad  judgment  and  psychopathic  unpunctuality. 

But  I  can't  do  anything  of  the  sort  because,  possibly  leaving  out 
certain  encounters  with  girls,  I  have  never  had  more  fun,  along  with 
no  inconsiderable  reverence,  than  in  working  with  Van  Doren  and 
Fadiman. 

They  are  large,  bland,  handsome  gents,  quiet,  witty,  and  amazingly 
punctual.  For  the  dozens  of  meetings  that  the  Editorial  Committee 
of  The  Readers  Club  has  held  over  the  past  two  years,  the  latest  that 
any  one  has  ever  been  was  three  minutes— and  that  was  Kip  Fadiman, 
and  he  was  appalled  at  himself.  (By  the  way,  that  is  literal.)  Business 
men  are  supposed  to  be  so  much  more  efficient  than  scholars;  yet  I 
have  never  known  any  business  man  so  precise  about  appointments, 
so  quick  to  make  up  his  mind  and  so  dependable  in  carrying  out  his 
promises,  as  these  two. 

Dragging  for  complaints  about  them,  all  I  can  bring  up  is  this: 
Van  Doren  is  so  much  the  historical  scholar,  and  Fadiman  is,  under 
the  tinfoil  of  his  radio  glitter,  so  much  the  liberal  humanitarian,  that 
I  have  never  been  able  to  convince  them  about  any  of  the  novels 
that,  just  as  stories  with  no  soggy  ethical  import,  delight  me  as  a  rival 
fictioneer. 

They  are  serious  fellows,  these  two  cultural  pathologists  who  look 
so  much  like  infantry  officers.  To  them,  a  book  must  "mean  some- 
thing." They  would  prefer  a  ponderous  bad  funeral  march  to  a  good 
gay  sonata.  For  two  years  I  have  been  trying  to  persuade  them  that 
The  Readers  Club  ought  to  publish  Night  Over  Fitch's  Pond  by 
Cora  Jarrett,  Four  Frightened  People  by  Arnot  Robertson,    Vile 


xiv  A  PREFACE: 

Bodies  and  Decline  and  Fall  by  Evelyn  Waugh,  any  of  the  crime  mas- 
terpieces of  Joseph  Shearing,  particularly  The  Spider  in  the  Cup 
and  The  Golden  Violet;  and  this  year  I  have  been  trumpeting  for 
In  the  Forests  of  the  Night  by  Kenneth  Davis.  But  the  best  I  could 
ever  get  out  of  these  major  generals  was  a  condescending  "Ye-es,  it's 
a  fairly  good  story,  but " 

To  quote  myself,  George,  "Fadiman  prefers  the  brief  epilogue  that 
Leo  Tolstoy  has  added  to  Clifton  Fadiman's  Introduction  to  War 
and  Peace,"  while  Van  Doren,  to  quote  myself  again,  would  rather 
possess  a  thousand-word  treatise  on  the  uniforms  of  the  Seventh  New 
Hampshire  Militia  at  the  Battle  of  Saratoga  than  a  newly-discovered 
story  by  Saki  illustrated  by  Leonardo  da  Vinci  and  published  by  the 
Elzevirs  or  even  by  your  Limited  Editions  Club  (adv.). 

But  I  hope  to  endure  them  both  for  the  next  twenty  years. 

Sinclair  Lewis 

5.     FROM  MR.  VAN  DOREN: 

Dear  george:  It  will  be  up  to  me,  I  suppose,  to  get  some  poetry  and 
history  into  The  Three  Readers.  Fadiman  and  Lewis  talk 
about  William  Butler  Yeats  from  time  to  time,  but  they  seldom 
mention  a  poet  in  our  discussions.  Lewis  is  a  renegade  from  verse, 
who  began  his  writing  life  at  nineteen  with  tender  poems  like  A  Song 
of  Prince  Hal,  Puck  to  Queen  Mab,  A  May  Time  Carol,  The  Coward 
Minstrel,  but  now  only  improvises  rhymes  when  the  fit  hits  him.  Do 
you  remember  the  day  we  went  to  visit  Woollcott  on  what  Fadiman 
would  call  the  Lake  Isle  of  Bomoseen;  and  Lewis  on  the  way  back 
suddenly  burst  out  with 

Why  should  Alex 

Live  in  a  palex? 
and  then  settled  back  into  another  year  of  prose?  As  to  Fadiman, 
who  was  born  with  a  steel  trap  in  his  mouth,  I  suspect  him  of  never 
having  had  his  fling— like  wilder  young  men— at  verse  at  all.  He 
lisped  in  bon-mots,  for  the  bon-mots  came.  Still,  he  has  gone  on 
liking  Yeats  through  all  his  changes. 

As  to  history,  Fadiman  prefers  theories  about  it— provided  they  are 
not  by  Spengler— to  histories  themselves.  And  Lewis,  though  he  is  a 
principal  historian  of  our  times,  gets  his  history  through  his  skin. 
Mention  something  that  happened  farther  back  than  Lewis  can  re- 
member, and  he  may  look  skeptical.  Mention  something  that  F.  P.  A. 
or  John  Kieran  might  not  remember,  and  Fadiman  may  regard  it  as 
irrelevant.  Fadiman  and  Lewis,  active  as  grasshoppers,  may  jump  in 
any  direction,  but  they  are,  like  grasshoppers,  not  likely  to  jump 


THREE  LETTERS  TO  GEORGE       xv 

backwards.  This  is  a  fine  way  to  keep  from  being  dull  in  your 
writing,  but  it  is  also  a  fine  way  to  miss  a  good  deal  of  substance  and 
flavor  in  your  reading.  I  mean  to  slip  into  my  section  of  The  Three 
Readers  some  things  that  have  never  been  referred  to  in  any  Lewis 
novel  and  will  never  come  up  as  questions  for  Information  Please. 

And  I  mean,  too,  to  allow  more  space  to  love— verse  and  prose— in 
my  section  than  we  have  in  general  allowed  it  in  The  Readers  Club 
selections.  Lewis  is  disposed  to  straight-arm  love  when  he  meets  it  in 
literature,  and  Fadiman  to  high-hat  it.  I  look  on  it  as  a  force  of 
nature  and  study  it,  observing  or  reading,  with  respect.  After  all, 
without  some  such  force  in  nature  there  would  be  no  Lewis,  no 
Fadiman. 

Perhaps  in  the  prefatory  letters  you  have  asked  for,  the  Three 
Readers  of  your  Committee  have  revealed  some  secrets  about  each 
other's  tastes  that  it  might  have  been  wiser  to  keep  private.  But  in 
fact  nobody  can  reveal  secrets  about  an  editor  like  the  editor  himself. 
His  selections  tell  as  much  about  his  mind  as  a  poet's  sonnets  tell 
about  his  heart.  My  guess  is  that  Lewis's  part  of  this  volume  will  be 
full  of  stories.  After  fifty  years  of  reading  novels  and  thirty  years  of 
writing  them,  he  still  has  an  appetite  for  fiction,  like  an  ageless  man 
who  has  never  lost  the  sweet-tooth  of  his  greedy  boyhood.  Fadiman's 
part  will  be  boiling  with  ideas,  explicit  in  argument  or  implicit  in 
forms  of  art;  and  there  will  probably  be  a  pun  in  his  preface. 

Carl  Van  Doren 


THE       THREE       READERS 


VWM 


\  / 


:/.jy 


Section  I:  Selected  by  Clifton  Fadiman 


Introductory  Remarks 


Mr.  george  macy,  in  that  airy  publisher's  manner  of  his,  suggested 
that  I  heap  together  sixty  or  seventy  thousand  words  of  reading 
that  I  would  like  to  persuade  other  people  to  read.  I  dove  at  once 
into  my  files  (consisting  of  a  bad  memory  that  is  not  improving  with 
age)  and  emerged  with  the  treasures,  as  I  think,  displayed  in  the 
pages  that  follow. 

I  have  been  trying  to  figure  out  what  principle  of  unity  can  pos- 
sibly govern  this  baker's  dozen  of  oddments:  a  shivery  trick  of  a  tale, 
some  popular  natural  science,  a  masterpiece  of  classic  French  litera- 
ture, a  New  Yorker  report  on  the  sniffles,  a  grave  poem  by  a  young 
Englishman,  a  long  short  story  by  an  American  newcomer,  a  British 
mariner's  true  yarn,  a  diaphanous  literary  burlesque,  an  essay  drawn 
from  the  work  of  the  greatest  living  theorist  of  history,  a  stray  piece 
of  comic  verse,  an  allegorical  fantasy,  a  few  pages  of  diversion  from 
the  hand  of  a  famous  American  novelist,  and  some  seventeenth- 
century  rules  for  judicial  conduct. 

There  is  no  principle  of  unity  observable,  except  the  trivial  cir- 
cumstance that  all  of  these  morsels  of  prose  or  verse  have  at  one 
time  or  another  aroused  my  admiration  to  a  pitch  of  fervency  suf- 
ficient to  turn  me  into  a  literary  evangelist.  I  do  not  know  why  pro- 
fessional readers  like  myself  are  so  lacking  in  self-control  that  we 
must  perforce  try  to  convert  others  to  our  own  enthusiasms.  Perhaps  we 
read  so  much,  so  quickly,  with  such  excessive  catholicity,  that  we  grow 
unsure  of  our  own  taste,  and  timidly  solicit  the  agreement  of  others. 

In  any  case,  I  believe  that  each  of  these  selections  is  sound  writing 
of  its  kind;  that  only  two  (those  by  Toynbee  and  Flaubert)  have  any 
claim  to  permanence;  that  one  (by  Lionel  Trilling)  is  a  discovery; 
and  that  I  would  give  a  good  deal  to  have  written  any  of  them  and 
am  sadly  aware  of  my  total  incapacity  to  do  so. 

Like  many  good  things,  John  Collier's  "Back  for  Christmas"  origi- 
nally appeared  in  the  pages  of  The  New  Yorker,  in  the  issue  of  Octo- 

3 


4  CLIFTON  FADIMAN 

ber  7,  1939.  It  is  a  piece  of  pure,  devilishly  ingenious  manipulation, 
and  I  suppose  sardonic  is  the  word  for  its  special  atmosphere.  Mr. 
Collier  has  inherited  the  mantle  of  Saki,  but  he  adds  to  that  minor 
master's  cynical  wit  and  infernal  fancy  an  extraordinary  faculty  of 
invention.  I  hope  to  be  able  to  persuade  my  colleagues  that  The 
Readers  Club  owes  its  membership  an  omnibus  John  Collier.  If  you 
enjoy  this  murderous  trifle,  you  might  drop  me  a  card,  and  tell  me 
so,  and  help  along  my  Collier  campaign. 

Mr.  Ivan  T.  Sanderson  is  also  in  my  good  books.  He  is  a  brilliant 
young  English  zoologist  and  naturalist  who  above  all  things  prefers 
to  poke  about  in  nasty  places  observing  unpleasant  animals.  Out  of 
this  lunatic  activity  he  somehow  concocts  fascinating  volumes.  From 
one  of  them,  Animal  Treasure,  published  in  1937,  I  have  drawn  a 
long  account  of  some  bats  Mr.  Sanderson  made  friends  with  in  West 
Africa.  To  my  mind  it  is  as  good  as  anything  William  Beebe  ever 
wrote,  almost  as  good  as  W.  H.  Hudson. 

If  you  haven't  read  Animal  Treasure,  perhaps  Mr.  Sanderson's 
bats  may  impel  you  to  do  so.  In  Nigeria  he  encountered  not  only 
these  odd  and  to  me  obsessively  interesting  creatures,  but  also  rats 
with  yellow  spots  and  spiral  tails,  belching  baboons,  a  green-and- 
orange  frog  that  blows  sky-blue  bubbles,  a  lizard  with  a  demountable 
tail,  squirrels  that  make  booming  noises,  and  skinks  that  bellow  like 
foghorns.  He  tells  you  about  giant  water-shrews  and  leering  whip 
scorpions  and  supercilious  toads;  gives  you  the  low-down  on  how  to 
skin,  cut  up,  and  preserve  a  quarter-ton  gorilla;  how  to  find  out 
what's  going  on  inside  a  hollow  tree;  how  to  amuse  the  natives  with 
swing  music  recorded  by  the  Washboard  Rhythm  Kings.  He  is 
admirable  on  hippos,  terrifying  on  spiders,  epic  on  rats.  As  for  these 
rats,  I  am  pleased  to  pass  along  the  information  that  the  family  in 
general  is  called  Rattus;  that  there  is  a  species  known  as  Rattus 
rattus;  and  that,  finally,  there  is  a  sub-species,  Rattus  rattus  rattus. 

Of  Gustave  Flaubert's  "A  Simple  Heart"  there  is  little  to  say.  I 
think  it  is  the  most  beautiful  thing  he  ever  wrote,  and  it  is  generally 
considered  one  of  the  greatest  stories  of  the  world.  "A  Simple  Heart" 
has  been  reprinted,  but  not  often  enough,  and  my  hope  is  that  even 
among  the  extremely  well-read  members  of  this  Club  there  may  be 
several  to  whom  it  will  come  as  something  new.  It  is  very  simple, 
very  quiet,  apparently  without  any  pretension;  like  the  Psalms,  like 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  I  think  a  comment  by  Edward  J.  O'Brien 
expresses  its  quality  perfectly.  He  said,  "This  story  is  the  greatest  act 
of  faith  made  by  any  story  teller  I  know." 

St.  Clair  McKelway's  hilarious  piece  of  research  on  the  Common 


r 


( 


INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS  5 

Cold  appeared  in  the  March  22,  1941,  issue  of  The  New  Yorker.  Since 
that  date,  I  am  assured  by  Mr.— now  Major— McKelway,  nothing 
much  has  occurred  to  diminish  the  commonness  of  the  Common 
Cold.  Like  the  weather  (with  which  it  is  connected— or  is  it?)  a  cold 
remains  something  everybody  discusses  and  nobody  does  anything 
about.  In  addition  to  being  a  brilliant  job  of  writing  in  itself,  "Ben- 
zoin for  the  Turbinates"  pulls  the  leg  of  the  great  god  Science  in  a 
manner  to  gladden  the  heart  of  anyone  who  has  ever  visited  a  doctor. 

I  am  no  judge  of  modern  poetry,  a  defect  which,  some  of  my 
friends  tell  me,  saves  me  much  painful  reading.  For  example,  though 
I  admire  the  English  poet  W.  H.  Auden,  I  do  not  always  understand 
him,  and  still  less  often  enjoy  him.  By  some  strange  chance,  however, 
I  enjoy,  understand,  and  admire  the  curiously  haunting  poem  you 
will  find  below.  It  is  titled  with  a  fatal  date,  but  applies  as  justly  in 
1943  as  it  did  in  1939. 

Lionel  Trilling,  a  young  professor  of  literature  who  teaches  at 
Columbia,  is  of  Mr.  Auden's  generation,  but  is  making  his  mark 
more  slowly.  He  has  written  some  of  the  most  thoughtful  literary 
criticism  of  our  time,  work  that  deserves  collection.  "Of  this  Time, 
of  that  Place"  seems  to  me  the  work  of  a  man  now  ready  to  write  fine 
fiction.  (It  appeared  in  the  January-February  1943  issue  of  the  Parti- 
san Review)  In  Mr.  Trilling's  story  I  am  not  certain  what  he  means 
to  convey  by  the  girl  with  the  camera,  but  the  rest  of  the  tale  seems 
to  me  beautifully  balanced,  poised,  sensitive.  Its  material  is  of  the 
sort  that  in  coarser  hands  would  lend  itself  to  easy  satire;  Mr.  Tril- 
ling apparently  was  not  even  aware  of  the  temptation.  "Of  this  Time, 
of  that  Place"  is  subtle,  but  not  obscure.  It  merits  careful  reading. 

A  great  deal  of  literature,  of  course,  is  never  written  down— the 
forecastle  yarn,  for  instance.  Sailors' are  among  the  least  inarticulate 
of  men,  but  very  few  of  us  ever  get  a  chance  to  listen  to  them.  In  the 
spring  and  summer  of  1941  a  British  merchant  mariner  named  Frank 
Laskier  was  induced  to  tell  some  true  stories  of  his  wartime  experi- 
ences, ad  libbing  them  into  the  microphone  of  the  British  Broadcast- 
ing Corporation.  He  was  a  great  success  simply  because  he  proved 
a  natural  spinner  of  yarns.  I've  chosen  one  of  his  tales,  "Sea  Raider" 
(this  was  the  Von  Scheer,  by  the  way),  because  I  consider  it  an  ex- 
traordinary piece  of  legitimate  rhetoric.  Also  because  I  hope  it  will 
help  people  to  hate  to  the  death— and  beyond  it— those  self-declared 
enemies  of,  and  traitors  to,  the  human  race— the  Germans. 

As  a  contrast  to  Frank's  tale  I  sought  something  dulcet  and  artifi- 
cial, and  in  Zuleika  in  Cambridge  I  think  I  have  found  it.  Readers 
of  that  now  slightly  faded  classic,  Zuleika  Dobson  by  Sir  Max  Beer- 


6  CLIFTON  FADIMAN 

bohm,  will  recall  that  after  the  brash  and  bewitching  Zuleika  had 
worked  havoc  among  the  students  of  Oxford,  she  decided  to  leave 
the  scene  of  carnage  and  attempt  the  hearts  of  the  Cantabrigians.  On 
the  note  of  this  resolve  the  book  ends. 

And  so  it  was  that  until  recently  the  Zuleika's  Cambridge  adven- 
tures ranked  with  the  song  the  sirens  sang  and  the  name  Achilles  as- 
sumed when  he  hid  himself  among  women.  But  at  last  the  great  Dob- 
son  mystery  has  been  unlocked  by  Mr.  S.  C.  Roberts,  of  whom  I 
know  nothing  but  suspect  of  being  a  don.  The  creator  of  Zuleika 
himself  has  seen  fit  to  approve  Mr.  Roberts'  ingenious  guesses.  Says 
Sir  Max,  "I  had  often  wondered  what  happened  when  Zuleika  went 
to  Cambridge.  And  now  I  know  beyond  any  shadow  of  a  doubt." 

Everyone  is  aware  that  Oxford  and  Cambridge  exist  on  separate 
planets  and  have  no  common  center.  It  is  with  their  differences, 
often  of  an  extremely  rarefied  quality,  that  this  toothsome  piece  of 
preciosity  deals.  Its  humor,  I  grant  you,  is  of  the  mildest  and  most 
donnish  and  most  English  and  even  most  eighteen-ninetyish;  but 
true  humor  nonetheless.  The  inclusion  in  The  Three  Readers  of 
this  pastiche  of  a  pastiche  is  a  miniature  scoop,  for  there  are  but  a 
few  hundred  copies  of  the  paper-covered  English  edition  (1941)  avail- 
able in  this  country.  I  do  not  suppose  many  of  our  members  can 
have  run  across  them. 

From  the  diverting  triviality  of  Mr.  Roberts'  jeu  d 'esprit  I  invite 
our  members  to  turn  their  attention  to  a  few  characteristic  pages 
drawn  from  a  work  which  I  consider  the  most  magnificent  intellec- 
tual structure  of  our  time,  six  enormous  volumes  of  whose  projected 
nine  or  ten  have  already  been  published.  They  are  familiar  to  most 
historical  students  and  to  a  few  laymen,  such  as  myself,  who  have 
been  fortunate  enough  to  come  upon  them. 

A  Study  of  History  by  Arnold  J.  Toynbee,  Research  Professor  of 
International  History  in  the  University  of  London,  is  the  book  which 
during  the  last  decade  has  made  the  deepest  impression  on  my  own 
mind.  It  is  a  difficult  and  incredibly  learned  discussion  of  the  birth, 
growth,  breakdowns  and  disintegrations  of  civilizations.  I  do  not 
claim  the  ability  to  follow  all  of  Dr.  Toynbee's  sweeping  arguments 
and  I  am  certainly  completely  disqualified  to  comment  on  his  all- 
time,  all-space  embracing  scholarship.  Yet  I  am  certain  that  this  book 
(or  rather  series  of  books)  reduces  to  relative  unimportance  the  much- 
touted  theses  of  Spengler  and  Pareto. 

Toynbee's  style  is  dense,  grave,  measured,  with  occasional  glints 
of  ceremonious  humor.  In  his  sanity,  his  objectivity  (he  is  a  univer- 
sal, not  a  British  historian),  his  unswerving  appeal  to  experience,  he 


INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS  7 

represents  the  finest  tradition  of  English  historical  writing.  Inspiring 
as  are  the  intellectual  vistas  his  multifarious  new  theses  open  up,  it 
is  the  quality  of  his  mind  that  even  more  powerfully  arouses  one's 
admiration— so  clean,  pure,  courageous,  and  truly  religious  is  it. 

His  great  work  was  composed  during  the  troubled  and  uncertain 
thirties;  it  is  still  being  composed;  it  was  being  written  as  bombs 
crashed  on  London.  Like  Flaubert's  "A  Simple  Heart,"  but  far  more 
dramatically,  it  is  a  superb  act  of  faith  and  a  gesture  of  courage.  The 
Western  Civilization,  which  is  ours,  and  which  is  one  of  the  many 
Toynbee  discusses,  may  be  passing  into  a  new,  perhaps  a  darker 
phase;  but  Toynbee,  like  a  great  doctor  charting  the  course  of  his 
own  disease,  proceeds  to  analyze  it  with  a  calm  and  a  power  given 
only  to  minds  that  live,  like  the  observer  in  Lucretius'  De  Rerum 
Natura,  upon  a  mountain  top.  The  quality  of  his  mind  is  perhaps 
indicated  by  the  four  wonderful  lines  from  the  old  Anglo-Saxon 
Lay  of  the  Battle  of  Maldon,  which  appears  on  the  title-page  of 
Volume  I: 

"Thought  shall  be  the  harder, 

Heart  the  keener, 

Mood  shall  be  the  more, 

As  our  might  lessens." 

In  his  preface  to  Parts  IV  and  V,  Toynbee  has  a  final  paragraph 
that  I  find  masterful  in  its  combination  of  modesty,  stoic  dignity, 
and  true  authority.  I  quote  it: 

"Though  the  original  sketch  of  Parts  IV  and  V  was  worked  out, 
like  that  of  all  the  parts  that  precede  and  follow,  in  the  summers  of 
1927  and  1928,  the  actual  writing  of  Part  IV  was  not  begun  before 
the  summer  of  1933,  and  the  last  proofs  were  sent  to  press,  at  a  mo- 
ment of  public  anxiety  and  private  grief,  in  March  1939.  It  will  be 
seen  from  the  dates  that  the  contemporary  atmosphere  in  which  the 
present  three  volumes  were  produced  was  painfully  appropriate  to 
the  themes  of  "breakdown"  and  "disintegration"  which  these  vol- 
umes have  for  their  subjects.  There  were  moments  when  it  almost 
seemed  like  tempting  Fate  and  wasting  effort  to  go  on  writing  a  book 
that  must  be  the  work  of  many  years,  when  a  catastrophe  might  over- 
take the  writer's  world  within  the  next  few  weeks  or  days.  At  such 
moments  the  writer  has  often  fortified  his  will  by  calling  to  mind  the 
dates  of  writing  of  another  book  with  which  this  book  is  comparable 
only  on  the  single  point  of  length.  Saint  Augustine  did  not  begin 
writing  De  Civitate  Dei  before  the  sack  of  Rome  by  Alaric  in  a.d. 


8  CLIFTON  FADIMAN 

410;  yet  he  finished  the  work  within  the  next  twenty  years,  and,  al- 
though, at  the  moment  of  his  death  in  a.d.  430  in  his  episcopal  see 
of  Hippo,  a  Vandal  war-band  was  beleaguering  the  city-walls,  the 
book  survived  to  inform  the  minds  and  inspire  the  souls  of  Christians 
from  that  day  to  this,  in  times  and  places  that  were  far  beyond  the 
fifth-century  African  Father's  mundane  horizon.  Of  course  the  au- 
thor of  this  tale  of  two  cities  had  a  supramundane  range  of  vision 
in  comparison  with  which  no  appreciable  difference  is  made  by  a 
few  thousand  terrestrial  miles  or  years  more  or  less;  and  a  glimpse 
of  this  vision  is  the  boon  for  which  the  present  writer  is  the  most 
deeply  grateful  to  the  writer  of  De  Civitate  Dei." 

To  choose  among  the  thousands  of  pages  that  comprise  what  is  so 
far  published  of  A  Study  of  History  is  a  task  of  almost  insuperable 
difficulty.  I  have  selected  from  Volume  II  a  short  section,  compre- 
hensible, I  hope,  in  itself,  entitled  "The  Struggle  for  North  Amer- 
ica." This  is  one  of  the  many  examples  Toynbee  uses  to  make  clear 
what  he  calls  "the  stimulus  of  hard  countries."  One  of  his  major 
arguments  revolves  around  his  conception  of  "challenge-and-re- 
sponse,"  the  notion  that  certain  high  forms  of  civilization  arise  as  a 
direct  result  of  a  challenge,  a  difficulty,  a  set  of  obstacles.  One  of 
these  challenges  is  often  that  posed  by  a  hard  terrain,  an  unpromis- 
ing physical  environment.  In  "The  Struggle  for  North  America" 
Toynbee  works  out  this  idea  with  extraordinary  cogency,  inventive- 
ness, and  even  humor. 

Now,  to  descend  from  the  cosmic  to  the  miniature:  Many  years 
ago,  in  a  faded  Victorian  compilation  called  Ballades  and  Rondeaus, 
selected  and  edited  by  Gleeson  White,  I  came  across  some  verses 
called  "Monologue  d'Outre  Tombe."  For  twenty  years  I  have  con- 
sidered them  a  wondrous  merger  of  the  laughable  and  the  gruesome. 
The  odd  form  of  the  "Monologue"  is  such  that  when  you  have  read 
it  three  or  four  times  it  is  hard  to  get  its  lines  out  of  your  head.  It  is 
also  an  excellent  versified  illustration  of  the  law  of  the  transmutation 
of  energy. 

The  curious  reiterative  pattern  in  which  it  is  composed  is  called 
a  pantoum.  The  pantoum,  not  a  French  verse  form  but  of  Malay 
invention,  is  oddly  suited  to  the  securing  of  one  of  the  rarest  of 
(conscious)  literary  effects— that  of  monotony.  In  this  case  the  effect 
of  humor  is  secured  at  the  same  time. 

I  would  be  grateful  to  our  members  for  any  clue  to  the  author  of 
this  soliloquy  of  a  corpse.  I  have  never  seen  it  included  in  any  an- 
thology of  verse,  except  the  little  out-of-print  Gleeson  White  collec- 


INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS  9 

tion.  I  hope  it  will  amuse  you  as  much  as  it  has  amused  me.  Funny- 
bones,  however,  differ. 

Following  this  piece  of  macabric-a-brac  the  reader  will  come  upon 
"The  Celestial  Omnibus."  I  suppose  in  a  sense  all  the  writings  of 
E.  M.  Forster,  the  still  widely  unrecognized  dean  of  English  novelists, 
deal  with  a  single  theme:  the  collision,  quiet  and  often  fatal,  between 
the  claims  of  the  imagination  and  the  claims  of  reality.  It  is  of  this 
ancient  war  that  "The  Celestial  Omnibus"  is  a  fantastic  record, 
charming  and  chilling.  It  is  a  fairy-tale  about  poetry  which,  as  the 
terrible-faced  driver  of  the  Celestial  Omnibus  reminds  his  strangely 
assorted  passengers,  "is  a  spirit;  and  they  that  would  worship  it  must 
worship  in  spirit  and  in  truth."  Like  all  Mr.  Forster's  tales,  this  is 
a  very  moral  one;  and  fragile;  and  beautiful.  I  fear  it  has  been  rather 
widely  reprinted.  Should  some  of  our  members  find  it  over-familiar, 
I  hope  they  will  not  nurse  against  me  too  obstinate  a  grudge. 

Just  two  more,  and  we're  through.  In  a  brilliant  essay,  Edmund 
Wilson  has  interpreted  John  Steinbeck  as  a  biological  novelist,  one 
whose  vision  of  life  flows  from  his  sensitivity  to  its  animal  manifesta- 
tions. This  would  explain  why  Steinbeck  writes  even  better  about 
beasts  than  about  men.  It  also  explains  why,  despite  the  warmth  of 
his  social  sympathies,  he  seems  so  curiously  detached. 

Sea  of  Cortez,  written  a  couple  of  years  ago  in  collaboration  with 
E.  F.  Ricketts,  one  of  Mr.  Steinbeck's  biologist  friends,  would  seem 
to  drive  home  Wilson's  thesis  to  the  hilt.  It  was  obviously  composed 
not  merely  to  tell  us— and  interestingly,  too— about  how  the  marine 
invertebrates  of  the  Panamic  faunal  province  are  killed,  preserved, 
labeled,  and  classified.  Nor  was  it  written  as  a  simple  narrative  of 
the  small  adventures,  many  of  them  quite  comical,  that  befell  the 
crew  on  the  expedition.  It  was  written  primarily  to  explain  Stein- 
beck's view  of  life  and  mode  of  thinking. 

Steinbeck  is  an  intellectual  anti-isolationist.  He  is  interested  in 
interrelationships.  His  aim,  whether  as  novelist  in  The  Grapes  of 
Wrath  or  as  amateur  philosopher  in  Sea  of  Cortez,  is  to  arrive  at  the 
total  pattern— he  calls  it  the  "design"— of  any  experience.  Anyone 
interested  in  total  pattern  is  apt  to  be  amoral  in  his  judgments,  for 
all  moral  judgments  proceed  out  of  the  isolation  of  experience,  the 
statement  "This  is  more  important  or  more  valuable  than  that." 
Thus,  Steinbeck  is  anti-teleological  in  his  thinking,  as  all  good  biolo- 
gists should  be;  his  eye  is  on  the  thing  as  it  is,  not  on  the  thing  as  it 
should  be.  This  is-thinking,  as  Steinbeck  calls  it,  means  to  him  what 
the  killing  of  large  animals  does  to  Hemingway.  It  has  religious, 
even  mystical  overtones  for  him,  overtones  that  may  be  inaudible  to 


io  CLIFTON  FADIMAN 

other  ears.  It  makes  him  aware  not  only  of  the  ecological  but  of  the 
evolutionary  relationship  between  man  and  the  Lightfoot  crab.  His 
mind  is  attuned  to  the  survivals  in  us  of  previous  existences.  He  be- 
lieves in  biological  memory  (more  than  a  trace  of  Jung  here),  and 
some  of  the  finest  passages  in  the  book  have  to  do  with  atavism  in 
man. 

I  transcribe  herewith  a  few  pages  from  this  "leisurely  journal  of 
travel  and  research."  As  a  matter  of  fact,  they  are  not  particularly 
characteristic  of  Sea  of  Cortez  nor  of  Steinbeck  generally.  I  commend 
them  to  the  attention  of  our  members  because  I  find  them  highly 
amusing  and,  also,  for  the  more  solemn  reason  that  they  are  a  first- 
rate  example  of  how  the  lingo  of  science  can  be  manipulated  by  a 
subtle  mind  to  yield  rich  humor. 

For  a  tail-piece  I  have  turned  to  a  British  Lord  Justice,  dead  for 
some  centuries.  I  once  visited  the  pleasant  chambers  of  United  States 
District  Court  Judge  John  M.  Woolsey,  author  of  the  famous  Ulysses 
decision  which  lifted  the  ban  on  that  classic.  On  the  wall  I  noticed 
a  broadside,  beautifully  printed  by  the  Merrymount  Press  of  Boston, 
and  was  struck  by  its  sharp  wit  and  sound,  nutty  seventeenth-century 
prose.  I  reproduce  it  here  because  Justice  is  a  matter  that  concerns 
not  Justices  alone,  but  all  of  us. 


Back  for  Christmas 


BY  JOHN  COLLIER 


"T^voctor,"  said  Major  Sinclair,  "we  certainly  must  have  you  with 
\J  us  for  Christmas."  It  was  afternoon  and  the  Carpenters'  living 
room  was  filled  with  friends  who  had  come  to  say  last-minute  fare- 
wells to  the  Doctor  and  his  wife. 

"He  shall  be  back,"  said  Mrs.  Carpenter.  "I  promise  you." 

"It's  hardly  certain,"  said  Dr.  Carpenter.  "I'd  like  nothing  better, 
of  course." 

"After  all,"  said  Mr.  Hewitt,  "you've  contracted  to  lecture  only  for 
three  months." 

"Anything  may  happen,"  said  Dr.  Carpenter. 

"Whatever  happens,"  said  Mrs.  Carpenter,  beaming  at  them,  "he 
shall  be  back  in  England  for  Christmas.  You  may  all  believe  me." 

They  all  believed  her.  The  Doctor  himself  almost  believed  her. 
For  ten  years  she  had  been  promising  him  for  dinner  parties,  garden 
parties,  committees,  heaven  knows  what,  and  the  promises  had  always 
been  kept. 

The  farewells  began.  There  was  a  fluting  of  compliments  on  dear 
Hermione's  marvellous  arrangements.  She  and  her  husband  would 
drive  to  Southampton  that  evening.  They  would  embark  the  follow- 
ing day.  No  trains,  no  bustle,  no  last-minute  worries.  Certainly  the 
Doctor  was  marvellously  looked  after.  He  would  be  a  great  success  in 
America.  Especially  with  Hermione  to  see  to  everything.  She  would 
have  a  wonderful  time,  too.  She  would  see  the  skyscrapers.  Nothing 
like  that  in  Little  Godwearing.  But  she  must  be  very  sure  to  bring 
him  back.  "Yes,  I  will  bring  him  back.  You  may  rely  upon  it."  He 
mustn't  be  persuaded.  No  extensions.  No  wonderful  post  at  some 
super-American  hospital.  Our  infirmary  needs  him.  And  he  must  be 
back  by  Christmas.  "Yes,"  Mrs.  Carpenter  called  to  the  last  departing 
guest,  "I  shall  see  to  it.  He  shall  be  back  by  Christmas." 

The  final  arrangements  for  closing  the  house  were  very  well  man- 
aged. The  maids  soon  had  the  tea  things  washed  up;  they  came  in, 


11 


12  JOHN  COLLIER 

said  goodbye,  and  were  in  time  to  catch  the  afternoon  bus  to  Devizes. 

Nothing  remained  but  odds  and  ends,  locking  doors,  seeing  that 
everything  was  tidy.  "Go  upstairs,"  said  Hermione,  "and  change  into 
your  brown  tweeds.  Empty  the  pockets  of  that  suit  before  you  put  it 
in  your  bag.  I'll  see  to  everything  else.  All  you  have  to  do  is  not  to  get 
in  the  way." 

The  Doctor  went  upstairs  and  took  off  the  suit  he  was  wearing,  but 
instead  of  the  brown  tweeds,  he  put  on  an  old,  dirty  bath  gown, 
which  he  took  from  the  back  of  his  wardrobe.  Then,  after  making 
one  or  two  little  arrangements,  he  leaned  over  the  head  of  the  stairs 
and  called  to  his  wife,  "Hermione!  Have  you  a  moment  to  spare?" 

"Of  course,  dear.  I'm  just  finished." 

"Just  come  up  here  for  a  moment.  There's  something  rather  ex- 
traordinary up  here." 

Hermione  immediately  came  up.  "Good  heavens,  my  dear  man!" 
she  said  when  she  saw  her  husband.  "What  are  you  lounging  about 
in  that  filthy  old  thing  for?  I  told  you  to  have  it  burned  long  ago." 

"Who  in  the  world,"  said  the  Doctor,  "has  dropped  a  gold  chain 
down  the  bathtub  drain?" 

"Nobody  has,  of  course,"  said  Hermione.  "Nobody  wears  such  a 
thing." 

"Then  what  is  it  doing  there?"  said  the  Doctor.  "Take  this  flash- 
light. If  you  lean  right  over,  you  can  see  it  shining,  deep  down." 

"Some  Woolworth's  bangle  off  one  of  the  maids,"  said  Hermione. 
"It  can  be  nothing  else."  However,  she  took  the  flashlight  and  leaned 
over,  squinting  into  the  drain.  The  Doctor,  raising  a  short  length  of 
lead  pipe,  struck  two  or  three  times  with  great  force  and  precision, 
and  tilting  the  body  by  the  knees,  tumbled  it  into  the  tub. 

He  then  slipped  off  the  bathrobe  and,  standing  completely  naked, 
unwrapped  a  towel  full  of  implements  and  put  them  into  the  wash- 
basin. He  spread  several  sheets  of  newspaper  on  the  floor  and  turned 
once  more  to  his  victim. 

She  was  dead,  of  course— horribly  doubled  up,  like  a  somersaulter, 
at  one  end  of  the  tub.  He  stood  looking  at  her  for  a  very  long  time, 
thinking  of  absolutely  nothing  at  all.  Then  he  saw  how  much  blood 
there  was  and  his  mind  began  to  move  again. 

First  he  pushed  and  pulled  until  she  lay  straight  in  the  bath,  then 
he  removed  her  clothing.  In  a  narrow  bathtub  this  was  an  extremely 
clumsy  business,  but  he  managed  it  at  last  and  then  turned  on  the 
taps.  The  water  rushed  into  the  tub,  then  dwindled,  then  died  away, 
and  the  last  of  it  gurgled  down  the  drain. 

"Good  God!"  he  said.  "She  turned  it  off  at  the  main." 


BACK  FOR  CHRISTMAS  13 

There  was  only  one  thing  to  do:  the  Doctor  hastily  wiped  his 
hands  on  a  towel,  opened  the  bathroom  door  with  a  clean  corner  of 
the  towel,  threw  it  back  onto  the  bath  stool,  and  ran  downstairs, 
barefoot,  light  as  a  cat.  The  cellar  door  was  in  a  corner  of  the  en- 
trance hall,  under  the  stairs.  He  knew  just  where  the  cut-off  was.  He 
had  reason  to:  he  had  been  pottering  about  down  there  for  some 
time  past— trying  to  scrape  out  a  bin  for  wine,  he  had  told  Hermi- 
one.  He  pushed  open  the  cellar  door,  went  down  the  steep  steps,  and 
just  before  the  closing  door  plunged  the  cellar  into  pitch  darkness, 
he  put  his  hand  on  the  tap  and  turned  it  on.  Then  he  felt  his  way 
back  along  the  grimy  wall  till  he  came  to  the  steps.  He  was  about  to 
ascend  them  when  the  bell  rang. 

The  Doctor  was  scarcely  aware  of  the  ringing  as  a  sound.  It  was 
like  a  spike  of  iron  pushed  slowly  up  through  his  stomach.  It  went 
on  until  it  reached  his  brain.  Then  something  broke.  He  threw  him- 
self down  in  the  coal  dust  on  the  floor  and  said,  "I'm  through.  I'm 
through." 

"They've  got  no  right  to  come.  Fools!"  he  said.  Then  he  heard 
himself  panting.  "None  of  this,"  he  said  to  himself.  "None  of  this." 

He  began  to  revive.  He  got  to  his  feet,  and  when  the  bell  rang 
again  the  sound  passed  through  him  almost  painlessly.  "Let  them  go 
away,"  he  said.  Then  he  heard  the  front  door  open.  He  said,  "I  don't 
care."  His  shoulder  came  up,  like  that  of  a  boxer,  to  shield  his  face. 
"I  give  up,"  he  said. 

He  heard  people  calling.  "Herbert!"  "Hermione!"  It  was  the  Wal- 
lingfords.  "Damn  them!  They  come  butting  in.  People  anxious  to 
get  off.  All  naked!  And  blood  and  coal  dust!  I'm  done!  I'm  through! 
I  can't  do  it." 

"Herbert!" 

"Hermione!" 

"Where  the  dickens  can  they  be?" 

"The  car's  there." 

"Maybe  they've  popped  round  to  Mrs.  Liddell's." 

"We  must  see  them." 

"Or  to  the  shops,  maybe.  Something  at  the  last  minute." 

"Not  Hermione.  I  say,  listen!  Isn't  that  someone  having  a  bath? 
Shall  I  shout?  What  about  whanging  on  the  door?" 

"Sh-h-h!  Don't.  It  might  not  be  tactful." 

"No  harm  in  a  shout." 

"Look,  dear.  Let's  come  in  on  our  way  back.  Hermione  said  they 
wouldn't  be  leaving  before  seven.  They're  dining  on  the  way,  in 
Salisbury." 


14  JOHN  COLLIER 

"Think  so?  All  right.  Only  I  want  a  last  drink  with  old  Herbert. 
He'd  be  hurt." 

''Let's  hurry.  We  can  be  back  by  half  past  six." 

The  Doctor  heard  them  walk  out  and  the  front  door  close  quietly 
behind  them.  He  thought,  "Half  past  six.  I  can  do  it." 

He  crossed  the  hall,  sprang  the  latch  of  the  front  door,  went  up- 
stairs, and  taking  his  instruments  from  the  washbasin,  finished  what 
he  had  to  do.  He  came  down  again,  clad  in  his  bath  gown,  carrying 
parcel  after  parcel  of  towelling  or  newspaper  neatly  secured  with 
safety  pins.  These  he  packed  carefully  into  the  narrow,  deep  hole  he 
had  made  in  the  corner  of  the  cellar,  shovelled  in  the  soil,  spread 
coal  dust  over  all,  satisfied  himself  that  everything  was  in  order,  and 
went  upstairs  again.  He  then  thoroughly  cleansed  the  bath,  and  him- 
self, and  the  bath  again,  dressed,  and  took  his  wife's  clothing  and  his 
bath  gown  to  the  incinerator. 

One  or  two  more  little  touches  and  everything  was  in  order.  It  was 
only  quarter  past  six.  The  Wallingfords  were  always  late;  he  had 
only  to  get  into  the  car  and  drive  off.  It  was  a  pity  he  couldn't  wait 
till  after  dusk,  but  he  could  make  a  detour  to  avoid  passing  through 
the  main  street,  and  even  if  he  was  seen  driving  alone,  people  would 
only  think  Hermione  had  gone  on  ahead  for  some  reason  and  they 
would  forget  about  it. 

Still,  he  was  glad  when  he  had  finally  got  away,  entirely  unob- 
served, on  the  open  road,  driving  into  the  gathering  dusk.  He  had 
to  drive  very  carefully;  he  found  himself  unable  to  judge  distances, 
his  reactions  were  abnormally  delayed,  but  that  was  a  detail.  When 
it  was  quite  dark  he  allowed  himself  to  stop  the  car  on  the  top  of  the 
downs,  in  order  to  think. 

The  stars  were  superb.  He  could  see  the  lights  of  one  or  two  little 
towns  far  away  on  the  plain  below  him.  He  was  exultant.  Everything 
that  was  to  follow  was  perfectly  simple.  Marion  was  waiting  in  Chi- 
cago. She  already  believed  him  to  be  a  widower.  The  lecture  people 
could  be  put  off  with  a  word.  He  had  nothing  to  do  but  establish 
himself  in  some  thriving  out-of-the-way  town  in  America  and  he  was 
safe  forever.  There  were  Hermione's  clothes,  of  course,  in  the  suit- 
cases: they  could  be  disposed  of  through  the  porthole.  Thank  heaven 
she  wrote  her  letters  on  the  typewriter— a  little  thing  like  handwrit- 
ing might  have  prevented  everything.  "But  there  you  are,"  he  said. 
"She  was  up-to-date,  efficient  all  along  the  line.  Managed  everything. 
Managed  herself  to  death,  damn  her!" 

"There's  no  reason  to  get  excited,"  he  thought.  "I'll  write  a  few 
letters  for  her,  then  fewer  and  fewer.  Write  myself— always  expecting 


BACK  FOR  CHRISTMAS  15 

to  get  back,  never  quite  able  to.  Keep  the  house  one  year,  then  an- 
other, then  another;  they'll  get  used  to  it.  Might  even  come  back 
alone  in  a  year  or  two  and  clear  it  up  properly.  Nothing  easier.  But 
not  for  Christmas!"  He  started  up  the  engine  and  was  off. 

In  New  York  he  felt  free  at  last,  really  free.  He  was  safe.  He  could 
look  back  with  pleasure— at  least,  after  a  meal,  lighting  his  cigarette, 
he  could  look  back  with  a  sort  of  pleasure— to  the  minute  he  had 
passed  in  the  cellar  listening  to  the  bell,  the  door,  and  the  voices.  He 
could  look  forward  to  Marion. 

As  he  strolled  through  the  lobby  of  his  hotel,  the  clerk,  smiling, 
held  up  letters  for  him.  It  was  the  first  batch  from  England.  Well, 
what  did  that  matter?  It  would  be  fun  dashing  off  the  typewritten 
sheets  in  Hermione's  downright  style,  signing  them  with  her  squig- 
gle,  telling  everyone  what  a  success  his  first  lecture  had  been,  how 
thrilled  he  was  with  America  but  how  certainly  she'd  bring  him 
back  for  Christmas.  Doubts  could  creep  in  later. 

He  glanced  over  the  letters.  Most  were  for  Hermione.  From  the 
Sinclairs,  the  Wallingfords,  the  vicar,  and  a  business  letter  from  Holt 
&  Sons,  Builders  and  Decorators. 

He  stood  in  the  lounge,  people  brushing  by  him.  He  opened  the 
letters  with  his  thumb,  reading  here  and  there,  smiling.  They  all 
seemed  very  confident  he  would  be  back  for  Christmas.  They  relied 
on  Hermione.  "That's  where  they  make  their  big  mistake,"  said  the 
Doctor,  who  had  taken  to  American  phrases.  The  builder's  letter  he 
kept  to  the  last.  Some  bill,  probably.  It  was: 

"Dear  Madam, 

We  are  in  receipt  of  your  kind  acceptance  of  estimate  as  below, 
and  also  of  key. 

We  beg  to  repeat  you  may  have  every  confidence  in  same  being 
ready  in  ample  time  for  Christmas  present  as  stated.  We  are  setting 
men  to  work  this  week. 

We  are,  Madam, 

Yours  faithfully, 

Paul  Holt  &  Sons 

To  excavating,  building  up,  suitably  lining  one  sunken  wine  bin 
in  cellar  as  indicated,  using  best  materials,  making  good,  etc. 

£18/0/0" 


Bats 


BY  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 


Everybody  is  at  least  vaguely  aware  of  the  existence  of  bats.  Even 
the  town  dweller  may,  if  he  care  to,  notice  their  little  phantom 
forms  flitting  around  the  houses.  Believe  it  or  not,  there  are  bats 
sleeping  in  the  Albert  Memorial  in  Kensington  Gardens  every  day 
of  the  year.  Still,  probably  less  than  one  person  in  every  five  hundred 
thousand  could  describe  accurately  what  any  bat  really  looks  like. 

In  Africa,  as  in  other  tropical  countries  where  bats  are  even  more 
numerous,  it  is  much  the  same.  These  strange  creatures  are  one  of 
the  most  diverse  and  numerically  predominant  groups  of  animals  in 
existence,  yet  they  live  around  and  among  us  like  ghosts,  unnoticed 
and  unknown. 

What  is  the  reason,  or  what  are  the  reasons? 

This  was  a  question  that  we  asked  ourselves  as  soon  as  we  got  to 
Africa.  The  answer  was  fairly  simple— bats  fly  by  night.  But  it  is  how 
and  where  they  fly  that  are  the  vital  points;  these  lead  us  into  a  num- 
ber of  problems  that  have  so  far  been  confined  to  the  realms  of  pure 
science.  Nevertheless,  they  proved  to  be  so  interesting  to  us,  as  we 
investigated  each  problem  in  turn,  that  I  feel  our  troubles  may  be 
shared  with  you. 

Scientists  divide  the  bats  into  two  classes— the  Megacheiroptera 
and  the  Microcheiroptera— which  only  mean  the  "large  bats"  and 
the  "small  bats."  The  former  are  vegetarians,  the  latter  mostly  car- 
nivorous, eating  insects  or  sucking  blood.  We  soon  discovered,  how- 
ever, that  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  collector  this  division  was 
not  quite  satisfactory.  The  habits  of  the  two  groups  overlap  some- 
what. 

We  noticed,  in  fact,  that  the  bats  fell  into  the  following  two 
classes:  those  that  fly  in  the  open  air  away  from  trees  and  obstruc- 
tions when  they  first  appear  every  evening  and,  secondly,  those  that 
do  not.  Nearly  all  the  large  frugivorous  bats  belong  to  the  first  class, 
almost  all  the  small  insectivorous  ones  to  the  second;  but,  still  from  ■ 

16 


BATS  17 

the  point  of  view  of  the  collector,  there  is  another  vast  difference 
between  them.  The  first  can  be  shot,  the  second  cannot,  except  in 
unusual  circumstances. 

When  the  sun  begins  to  set,  the  first  group  of  bats  leaves  its  hide- 
outs and  soars  into  the  air.  They  ascend  to  a  very  great  height,  more- 
over, primarily  because  the  insects  are  still  flying  in  the  warm  upper 
atmosphere  or,  in  the  case  of  fruit  bats,  because  they  have  to  travel 
some  distance  to  their  feeding  grounds.  Also,  this  first  lot  of  bats 
descends  towards  the  earth  only  by  degrees,  and  all  the  time  it  is 
getting  darker  every  second.  By  the  time  they  are  within  gun-shot 
range,  it  is  far  too  dark  to  sight  them;  they  are  an  almost  impossible 
target  at  the  best  of  times. 

The  second  type  of  bat— those  that  do  not  fly  in  the  open— has 
even  more  irritating  habits.  As  dusk  comes  rapidly  in  this  country 
of  forests,  woods,  and  endless  vegetation,  deep  shadows  are  cast  across 
the  whole  landscape,  so  that  little  patches  of  ever-extending  night 
mottle  the  whole  countryside.  The  bats— all  the  small  ones— emerge 
as  soon  as  these  shadows  are  black  enough,  and  content  themselves 
with  flashing  back  and  forth  from  the  gloomy  depths  of  one  patch 
of  forest  to  another,  always  keeping  in  the  darkest  shadows  in  their 
flight. 

Both  groups  are  therefore  from  the  outset  well  out  of  range  of 
any  designing  human.  These  facts  we  quickly  appreciated.  Had  we 
realized  that  our  troubles  were  really  only  just  beginning,  I  believe 
we  should  have  given  up  the  attempt  to  collect  these  animals  right 
away.  In  our  ignorance,  we  believed  that  we  would  be  able  to  shoot 
them  none  the  less,  and  also  eventually  discover  them  in  their  re- 
treats during  the  daylight  hours.  In  both  these  things  we  had  made 
serious  miscalculations. 

Nobody  seems  to  appreciate  just  what  a  bat's  flight  consists  of. 
Practically  all  birds  behave  in  the  air  in  much  the  same  manner  as 
an  airplane,  or  at  least  as  a  helicopter,  but  a  bat— words  fail  me  en- 
tirely! To  support  the  body  in  the  air  during  flight  the  wings,  which 
are  formed,  as  everybody  knows,  by  the  elongated  fingers  with  a  thin 
membrane  stretched  between  them,  are  moved  up  and  down  and, 
what  is  more  important,  backwards  and  forwards.  The  wing  is,  in 
fact,  used  exactly  like  a  hand  clawing  at  the  air  to  gain  a  grip.  Since 
this  hand  is  a  multitude  of  joints  bent  in  a  score  of  different  direc- 
tions, and  because  the  whole  animal  is  constructed  to  facilitate  the 
capture  of  minute,  swift-flying  insects,  the  so-called  flight  becomes  a 
jumble  of  the  most  fantastic  motions  imaginable.  Flight  consists  of 
a  series  of  collapses,  jerks,  spurts,  headlong  drops,  side-slips,  and 


18  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

indiscriminate  tumbles  that  defy  description,  all  known  laws  of  dy- 
namics, and  the  swiftest  aim  with  a  gun. 

The  species  that  fly  in  the  open  air  are  not  such  bad  offenders  in 
this  respect  as  those  that  do  not,  but  apart  from  the  fruit  bats,  which 
have  a  steadier  flight,  they  are  nevertheless  best  described  as  tortured 
animated  springs  let  loose  in  the  clear  air. 

Now  if  you  will  just  consider  the  following  facts,  you  may  be  able 
to  appreciate  the  difficulties  that  we  were  up  against.  The  body  of 
a  bat  may  be  taken  as,  on  an  average,  about  one-fifteenth  of  the  area 
of  the  whole  animal  when  the  wings  are  fully  extended.  The  flight 
of  some  species  is  so  swift  that  when  they  are  proceeding  in  a  straight 
line— which  is  rare— they  cannot  be  photographed  with  an  ordinary 
film-camera.  There  is  no  given  direction  for  a  bat's  flight— it  depends 
solely  on  the  spatio-temporal  relation  of  the  next  insect!  Lastly,  the 
animal  is  either  at  the  very  limit  of  gun  range  or  makes  its  appear- 
ance only  for  a  second  in  a  deep  shadow  among  dense  vegetation. 
I  may  add  that  a  bat  frequently  closes  its  wings  entirely  in  mid- 
air during  flight  to  increase  the  speed  of  its  descent  upon  a  crisp 
mouthful. 

Will  you  place  yourself  on  a  plot  of  rough  ground  covered  with 
fallen  trees,  ant-hills,  and  tangled  ground  creepers,  and  imagine 
yourself  gazing  up  into  the  rapidly  darkening  sky  (a  thing  you  have 
already  been  doing  for  twenty  minutes,  to  the  discomfort  of  your 
neck)?  Suddenly  a  tiny  flitting  thing  skids  out  of  the  invisible  be- 
yond and  you  imagine  it  is  within  the  range  of  your  gun,  now  that 
the  latter  seems  to  weigh  half  a  ton.  You  stumble  backwards  trying 
to  take  aim  at  the  dot  above.  First  it  is  to  your  right  side,  now  above 
you,  then  to  the  front,  now  right  behind.  At  last  you  are  roughly 
covering  it  with  your  sight— then  suddenly  something  happens,  in 
a  flash  it  has  become  only  one-fifteenth  its  former  size.  You  blaze 
away— or  perhaps  you  don't— only  to  see  the  wretched  creature  streak 
off  in  the  least  expected  direction  just  slowly  enough  for  the  eye  to 
follow.  Disgusted  with  this  encounter,  you  repair  to  the  adjacent 
forest  and  take  up  your  position  in  a  silent  narrow  glade. 

An  endless  stream  of  small  flashes  is  projected  out  of  the  trees  from 
one  side  to  the  other.  You  raise  your  gun,  determined  to  fire  at  the 
very  next  to  appear.  At  first  they  are  too  quick  for  you.  Since  it  is 
almost  dark,  you  determine  to  press  the  trigger  as  soon  as  one  flies 
by  your  aim.  Not  one  comes  out.  The  stream  has  ceased,  but  pres- 
ently commences  again  in  the  opposite  direction,  the  vanguard  pass- 
ing between  your  legs  and  between  your  nose  and  the  end  of  the 
gun.  Exasperated,  you  wheel  about,  but  as  you  do  so  the  whole 


BATS  19 

ground  bursts  into  eddies  of  practically  invisible  flitting  forms.  You 
fire  at  random  but  there  is  nothing  there. 

It  is  now  so  dark  that  you  light  your  torch,  affix  it  to  your  fore- 
head, and  stand  with  your  gun  to  your  shoulder  facing  down  the 
beam  of  light  which  is  cast  into  the  glade.  Bats  rocket  from  every- 
where. All  at  once  a  flopping,  fluttering  entity  appears,  coming 
straight  down  the  beam  of  the  bright  light.  Overjoyed  at  this  un- 
expected chance,  you  try  to  take  aim,  but  the  bat  is  now  here,  now 
there,  and  always  advancing  directly  at  you. 

You  fire.  Bang!  Out  of  the  smoke  appears  the  bat.  With  a  side- 
slip it  skids  past  the  muzzle  of  your  gun  and  is  gone  over  your  left 
shoulder. 

I  ask  you— what  are  you  to  do  with  tangible  ghosts? 

Our  base  camp  at  Mamfe  was  housed  in  a  structure  known  locally 
as  a  rest  house.  These  abodes  are  thoughtfully  provided  by  the  gov- 
ernment at  all  the  "stations"  and  in  most  of  the  more  important 
villages  on  the  main  forest  pathways  between  them.  They  vary 
greatly  in  size,  shape,  and  development.  The  most  primitive  are  little 
better  or  even  worse  than  the  meanest  local  native  houses;  the  best, 
in  big  towns  where  many  white  officials  and  traders  are  domiciled, 
are  truly  palatial  dwellings  with  verandas,  gardens,  ice-boxes,  and 
electric  light.  The  village  rest  houses  are  mere  mud  and  wattle  struc- 
tures built  on  the  native  plan.  The  worst  station  rest  houses  are  glori- 
fied editions  of  these,  but  the  better  ones  are  stone-built  structures 
with  "pan"  (corrugated-iron)  roofs. 

Mamfe  provided  just  such  a  one.  It  consisted  of  two  square  rooms, 
each  with  two  doors  and  two  windows,  built  on  a  raised  concrete 
platform  which  formed  a  veranda  all  round.  A  conical  tin  roof  cov- 
ered the  whole.  The  underside  of  the  roof  over  the  veranda  was 
neatly  covered  in  with  match-boarding  brought  at  great  expense 
from  Europe;  the  rooms  were  similarly  roofed,  though  here  the 
boarding  was  horizontal,  so  that  a  small  "un-get-at-able"  attic  was 
sealed  above  to  catch  the  dust,  the  dead  rats,  and  the  heat. 

We  slept  and  bathed  in  one  room,  worked  in  another,  and  fed  on 
the  veranda  on  the  leeward  side.  Simple  though  perfect  domestic 
arrangements  that  should  content  the  most  elite. 

A  few  days  after  our  arrival  at  Mamfe,  George  and  I  were  con- 
tentedly browsing  on  platefuls  of  rice  and  chicken  with  groundnuts, 
and  gazing  out  at  the  night  between  the  cascade  of  miniature  water- 
falls streaming  from  the  pan  roof  above.  It  wasn't  raining;  it  was 
pouring  as  it  can  do  only  in  the  tropics.  It  was,  to  be  precise,  the 
seventy-third  hour  that  the  elements  had  been  giving  vent  to  their 


20  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

pent-up  emotions  in  this  unmistakable  manner.  We  were  so  pleased 
to  have  reached  our  destination  and  got  unpacked  without  a  single 
loss,  that  not  even  all  this  water  could  dispel  our  satisfaction. 

The  rice  stowed  neatly  away  in  its  appointed  place,  we  leant  back 
preparatory  to  a  period  of  groaning.  Then  we  noticed  that  several 
bats  were  silently  flitting  round  the  veranda  in  the  angle  formed  by 
the  match-board  lining  to  the  roof  and  the  outside  walls  of  the  cen- 
tral living  rooms.  A  multitude  of  insects  had  congregated  there,  at- 
tracted by  the  bright  light. 

We  watched  these  bats  flying  round  and  round  the  house  with 
such  regularity  that  we  could  time  their  exact  appearance  round  the 
corner.  There  were  about  half  a  dozen  of  them.  This  seemed  to  be 
a  direct  challenge  which  we  groaningly  accepted  despite  the  rice  and 
groundnuts. 

Butterfly  nets  were  lashed  to  long  light  poles  and  raised  up  to  the 
angle  of  the  roof.  The  bats  continued  to  circle  round  and  round  the 
house.  We  waited  half-way  along  a  wall  facing  the  corner  around 
which  they  appeared.  As  they  flashed  by  above  us,  we  endeavoured 
to  pop  the  net  up  at  the  psychological  moment.  Though  some  prac- 
tice was  required  before  we  could  judge  their  speed,  soon  we  were 
very  near  the  mark. 

It  then  became  apparent  that  the  bats  could  slip  through  between 
the  rim  of  the  net  (which  was  circular)  and  the  roof-wall  angle.  We 
therefore  lowered  the  nets  and  constructed  angles  in  their  rims  to 
coincide  with  the  corner  of  the  roof.  Assured  of  a  capture,  we  again 
raised  the  nets. 

Now  the  bats  flew  straight  at  the  net,  partly  entered  the  mouth, 
then  backslid  out  again;  by  a  couple  of  deft  stallings,  like  an  airplane 
in  an  air-pocket,  they  squirmed  round  the  bottom  edge  of  the  net 
and  proceeded  on  their  way  round  the  house.  It  was  obvious  that 
whatever  we  put  in  their  path  they  would  be  able  to  avoid  with  com- 
parative ease.  Exasperated,  I  loaded  a  shotgun,  seated  myself  by  the 
dinner  table,  and,  to  the  great  amazement  of  the  kitchen  staff  and 
the  detriment  of  the  government's  valuable  roofing,  fired  both  bar- 
rels at  the  further  corner  of  the  roof  as  soon  as  I  saw  a  bat  appear. 
Perhaps  it  is  unnecessary  to  mention  that  I  did  not  hit  the  bat,  but 
blew  an  eight-inch  hole  clean  through  the  match-boarding. 

Two  bats,  however,  were  close  enough  to  be  thoroughly  dazed 
by  my  performance.  These  were  scooped  into  the  nets  as  they  flut- 
tered amazedly  about  above  us.  Our  first  two  bats  were  brought  to 
earth,  where  they  promptly  fixed  their  needle-sharp  teeth  on  my 
and  George's  fingers  respectively. 


BATS  21 

Since  we  were  guests  of  the  government,  we  could  not  continue 
blowing  the  roof  of  the  rest  house  away,  a  square  foot  at  a  time.  It 
therefore  became  imperative  to  devise  some  other  method  of  cap- 
turing our  nightly  visitors.  This  led  to  most  interesting  discoveries. 

I  had  heard  that  bats  had  some  marvellous  mechanism  by  which 
they  find  their  way  through  the  air,  and  more  particularly  those 
parts  that  are  cluttered  up  with  obstructions.  All  the  microcheirop- 
tera  have  minute  eyes,  some  even  are  totally  blind,  their  eyes  being 
reduced  to  pin-point  dimensions  and  covered  by  skin.  The  ones  we 
captured  at  our  first  attempt  (Hipposideros  caffer  and  Nycteris  arge) 
had  the  smallest  black  beads  totally  concealed  in  the  thick  fur.  Bats 
have  been  released  in  a  confined  space  across  and  throughout  which 
up  to  four  hundred  piano  wires  were  stretched  at  all  angles.  The 
bats  continued  to  fly  indefinitely  among  them  without  ever  so  much 
as  touching  a  wire  with  their  wing  tips  either  in  bright  light  or  in 
total  darkness,  even  when  what  eyes  they  had  were  completely  sealed 
over.  By  what  method  is  this  performed? 

If  a  bat  is  caught,  look  at  its  face.  This  will  probably  give  you 
quite  a  shock,  but  it  is  nevertheless  worth  an  inspection.  Bats'  faces 
vary  enormously,  probably  more  so  than  any  other  animals';  few  of 
them  are  straightforward  visages  and  many  are  beyond  the  wildest 
nightmares  of  a  deranged  liver  or  fancies  of  the  grotesque.  The  nose 
is  often  developed  into  a  whole  series  of  leaf-like  structures  one  on 
top  of  another,  and  there  are  wrinkles,  folds,  and  feelers  of  naked 
skin.  One  bat  we  found  had  a  fleshy  crucifix  surrounded  by  a  dozen 
complicated  leaves  spreading  from  its  nose  all  over  its  face. 

No  less  remarkable  than  the  endless  variety  of  noses  are  the  ex- 
tremes to  which  the  ears  go.  These  are,  in  the  first  place,  often  im- 
mense in  proportion  to  the  animal— I  know  one  bat  whose  ears 
are  very  much  larger  than  the  whole  animal  itself.  Inside  the  main 
ear  there  may  be  another  pinna  or  false  ear  of  almost  any  form. 
Some  are  exact  replicas  of  the  big  ear,  and  the  whole  thing  may  be 
multiplied  so  that  there  appears  to  be  a  series  of  ears  of  diminishing 
size,  one  within  the  other.  The  eyes,  as  I  have  mentioned,  are  neg- 
ligible quantities. 

Those  peculiar  people  who  take  an  interest  in  bats  have  debated 
for  many  years  as  to  whether  these  wonderful  structures  are  the 
means  by  which  the  bat  directs  itself  through  the  maze  of  piano 
wires  or  natural  obstructions  to  its  aerial  passage.  They  seem  to  have 
decided  that  not  only  are  the  nose-leaves  and  ears  the  centre  of  a 
kind  of  super-tactile  sensitivity  but  that  the  wing-membranes  also 
serve  this  purpose.  This  sixth  sense  must  in  some  way  be  connected 


22  IVAN  T.   SANDERSON 

with  a  power  of  touch  so  acute  that  the  animal  can  feel  objects  be- 
fore it  actually  comes  in  contact  with  them.  This  is  not  nearly  so 
strange  as  it  seems,  if  we  do  not  judge  all  senses  by  our  own,  which 
are  feebly  developed  to  say  the  least.  It  is  possible  that  in  the  case  of 
the  bats  this  sense  is  effected  by  minute  increases  in  air  pressure,  or 
responds  to  electro-magnetic  waves  propagated  by  matter. 

George  and  I  had  debated  these  interesting  facts  from  every  angle 
during  the  days  that  followed  our  first  captures,  having  had  such 
clear  proof  of  their  potentialities.  As  I  lay  in  bed  at  night,  the  prob- 
lem assumed  gigantic  proportions,  until  one  night  when,  just  after 
the  light  had  been  extinguished,  I  was  galvanized  into  action  by  a 
material  example  of  my  mental  speculations. 

From  within  my  mosquito  net  I  saw  a  phantom  form  flutter  mo- 
mentarily across  the  rectangle  of  moonlight  cast  by  the  window  op- 
posite my  bed.  There  was  definitely  a  bat  in  the  room.  We  held  a 
rapid  conference  in  the  dark.  The  torch  was  unearthed  and  lighted, 
and  disclosed  not  one  but  half  a  dozen  bats  flying  round  the  room. 
As  soon  as  the  light  came  on,  they  streamed  out  of  the  window.  This 
gave  us  the  idea. 

The  bright  paraffin  lamp  was  set  blazing  near  the  window.  Long 
pieces  of  string  were  attached  to  both  doors.  Members  of  the  staff 
were  crowded  into  the  room,  the  window  was  closed,  and  the  light 
extinguished.  We  then  sat  patiently  in  the  dark;  sure  enough,  bats 
began  to  enter  almost  at  once,  presumably  in  search  of  the  insects 
that  had  been  attracted  by  the  light.  We  pulled  the  strings,  which 
closed  the  doors  with  a  bang.  We  were  now  sealed  up  with  the  bats. 
The  lamp  was  relighted  and  our  troubles  began. 

The  room  was  approximately  twenty  feet  square  and  fourteen 
feet  high.  There  were  five  of  us,  all  supplied  with  nets,  and  four 
bats.  After  twenty  minutes,  we  had  caught  only  one,  although  all 
four  followed  each  other  round  and  round  the  room  in  a  wide  figure 
eight,  never  deviating  from  their  course  except  to  avoid  our  nets, 
which  feat  they  accomplished  with  maddening  regularity.  The  whole 
business  made  one  feel  quite  impotent.  People  have  given  me  glow- 
ing accounts  of  capturing  bats  in  butterfly  nets  over  ponds  or  around 
a  house  in  the  open  air;  they  must  either  be  blatant  liars  or  have 
operated  in  some  other  part  of  the  world,  because  the  average  West 
African  bat  seems  to  be  something  of  a  flying  ace. 

These  bats  provided  us  with  golden  opportunities  for  observing 
the  way  in  which  they  can  avoid  almost  any  object  while  on  the 
wing.  When  we  had  at  last  captured  them  all,  which  was  only  ac- 
complished by  their  becoming  tired  and  hanging  to  the  wall  upside 


BATS  23 

down,  we  tried  the  experiment  of  sealing  over  their  eyes  with  tiny 
pieces  of  adhesive  tape.  This  had  not  the  least  effect  on  their  effi- 
ciency, but  when  we  folded  one  of  the  ears  downwards  and  attached 
its  tip  to  the  face,  they  all  behaved  in  a  most  ludicrous  and  far  from 
competent  manner.  The  right  ear  caused  them  to  gyrate  in  an  anti- 
clockwise or  left-handed  direction  with  ever-increasing  velocity,  so 
that  they  eventually  went  into  a  violent  spin  in  mid-air  and  slowly 
descended  to  earth  like  a  whirling  helicopter.  The  sealing  of  the 
left  ear  had  an  exactly  contrary  effect.  Moreover,  when  the  ears  were 
released,  the  effects  were  still  apparent  for  some  time. 

Other  experiments  affecting  the  nose-leaves  and  parts  of  the  ears 
had  very  strange  results,  all  of  which  seemed  to  prove  conclusively 
that  these  organs  are  the  centre  of  their  balance-  and  direction- 
finding  mechanism  and  that  they  function  quite  involuntarily.  If 
the  right  ear  be  sealed,  one  would  have  supposed  that  the  constant 
pressure  on  it  would  have  been  construed  by  the  bat's  nervous  sys- 
tem as  implying  that  an  obstruction  lay  constantly  to  its  right  front. 
The  animal  would  therefore  keep  veering  to  the  left,  exactly  what 
we  observed  the  little  animals  to  do. 

One  evening  lingers  in  my  memory  as  being  the  first  which  I  con- 
sciously realized  was  dry  as  opposed  to  wet.  We  had  been  in  Africa 
for  more  than  two  months,  during  which  time  it  had  rained  every 
day  and  often  during  the  whole  day.  There  had  been  weeks  to- 
gether without  sunshine,  so  that  animals  skinned  and  stuffed  had 
remained  limp  and  damp  as  on  the  day  when  they  were  first  pre- 
pared. It  had  been  a  most  trying  time.  We  had  waited  patiently  for 
the  rains  to  cease  so  that  we  could  move  out  into  the  uncharted 
forests  under  canvas.  We  had  so  far  been  contenting  ourselves  with 
a  detailed  investigation  of  the  commoner  animals  and  those  that 
have  survived  or  taken  up  their  abode  among  the  semi-cultivated 
land  and  secondary  forest  around  the  settlements  of  man. 

Sitting  at  work  on  the  veranda  facing  the  clearing  of  Mamfe  sta- 
tion, I  had  an  uninterrupted  view  of  a  great  expanse  of  sky  to  the 
west.  The  sun  began  to  set,  flaming  like  a  furnace  behind  a  false  sky- 
line of  dense,  black  clouds  whose  pillars  and  towers  stood  motion- 
less, like  a  monstrous,  shadowy  mirage  of  New  York's  stately  sky- 
line. Above,  the  air  was  crystal-clear  and  depthless.  Towards  the 
disappearing  day  it  remained  delicately  blue  between  great  hori- 
zontal zones  of  pale,  soft  gold.  As  it  towered  above,  the  blue  melted 
to  glowing  heliotrope,  lilac,  violet,  and  thence,  to  the  east,  into  the 
indigos  and  the  mysteries  of  the  oncoming  tropical  night. 


24  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

Work  under  these  conditions  was  impossible  and  sacrilegious.  The 
Africans,  who  had  already  discovered  this,  had  melted  away  into  the 
twilight  without  permission  and  without  a  sound.  I  followed  suit 
and  drifted  out  across  the  soft  green  grass,  gazing  up  into  the  im- 
mensity of  the  sky  with  that  hopeless  yearning  that  all  mortals  feel 
when  confronted  with  the  immense  calm  of  the  evening  heavens. 
I  found  Ben  perched  on  a  termites'  nest  facing  the  setting  sun,  his 
chocolate  skin  burnished  with  the  reflection  of  the  flaming  glory. 
He  just  sat  and  stared  and  I  was  happy. 

Here  was  an  example  of  that  much  scorned  type— the  white  man's 
African  servant— who  had,  in  addition,  been  subjected  to  the  indig- 
nity and  stifling  stupor  of  a  mission  school.  And  yet,  although  he 
was  born  of  a  race  that  we  are  incessantly  told  can  only  be  lazy  or 
sensuous  when  not  asleep,  here  he  was  sitting  quietly  enraptured  by 
a  sight  that  must  after  all  have  been  as  commonplace  to  him  as  a 
blaze  of  electric  signs  is  to  us. 

"T'ick-ehn,  it's  very  fine"  was  all  he  said.  Then  very  mysteriously 
he  spoke  in  his  own  language,  enlarging  upon  the  beauty  of  the 
scene,  as  I  later  discovered.  I  could  almost  feel  a  European  "used  to 
managing  natives"  at  my  elbow,  whispering:  "Damn  it,  boy,  what 
infernal  insolence!" 

Under  the  dome  of  the  sky  we  sat  together  in  silence,  watching 
and  mentally  recording  the  ever-changing  flush  of  colours.  The  air 
was  still  except  for  a  very  distant  drum  throbbing  in  unison  with 
the  blood  coursing  through  our  veins,  and  an  occasional  croak  issu- 
ing from  a  near-by,  frog-infested  ditch. 

Yet,  was  that  all?  Every  now  and  then  I  felt  rather  than  heard  an 
infinitesimally  faint  noise.  Slowly  these  indescribable  sounds  became 
more  pronounced  until  I  could  ascertain  that  they  came  from  the 
sky  above.  Looking  up,  I  could  see  nothing.  Every  so  often,  and  ever 
more  plainly  now,  rang  out  a  faint,  high-pitched  "tit-trrrr."  Then, 
all  at  once,  Ben  looked  up  and  pointed  out  a  black  speck,  fluttering 
and  tumbling  hither  and  thither.  Bats! 

As  the  night  came  on,  the  air  became  filled  with  "tit-trrrrs."  The 
busy  little  animals  circled  slowly  towards  the  earth.  It  was  not  until 
several  days  later  that  we  obtained  our  first  specimens  of  these  bats, 
and  then  we  received  a  great  surprise. 

They  were  large,  powerfully  built  animals  with  relatively  small 
wings,  simple,  rather  pig-like  faces,  and  almost  naked  bodies.  The 
whole  skin  glistened  with  a  pungent-smelling  oil,  while  the  flesh, 
which  was  dense  and  excessively  heavy,  oozed  a  similar  substance 
for  hours  after  death.  Most  strange  of  all  were  pocket-like  pouches 


BATS  25 

under  the  chin  and  directed  forwards.  On  the  skin  at  the  back  of 
these  pouches  (that  is  to  say,  on  the  throat)  a  nipple  connected  with 
a  gland  was  situated  and,  clinging  to  this,  we  found  on  several  occa- 
sions a  peculiar  parasitic  fly  which  has  no  wings. 

These  bats  (Saccolaimus  peli)  belonged  to  that  aggravating  class 
that  flies  in  the  open  air.  They  were  the  first  we  encountered. 

After  several  weeks'  intensive  trapping  around  the  camp,  we  ap- 
peared to  have  more  or  less  cleared  up  or  frightened  away  all  the 
animals.  Trap  lines  were  thus  being  moved  to  another  locality,  be- 
cause, with  that  particular  method  of  collecting,  a  practice  known 
as  "completing  a  circle"  is  employed.  This  means  that  one  selects  a 
circle  and  works  inwards  from  it  to  the  camp,  so  that  all  animals,  to 
get  away,  must  either  pass  through  the  ring  of  traps,  or  congregate 
in  the  end  around  the  camp.  When  the  traps  reach  the  borders  of 
the  camp,  a  final  swarm  of  animals  appears.  After  they  are  collected 
or  have  escaped,  the  whole  area  is  played  out. 

With  a  view  to  selecting  a  new  ground  I  left  camp  for  a  day's 
outing  by  myself,  in  order  to  cover  a  wide  area  and  quietly  investi- 
gate its  possibilities  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge  and  ability.  These 
days  alone  were  most  profitable,  as  we  had  discovered,  not  because 
we  wanted  in  any  way  to  be  away  from  each  other,  but  because  the 
absence  of  conversation  and  freedom  to  wander  wherever  the  spirit 
moved  one  brought  to  one's  notice  an  extraordinary  number  of  new 
facts  and  phenomena. 

On  this  particular  occasion  I  set  out  towards  a  large  "lake"  of  grass 
that  had  been  reported  to  me  as  existing  to  the  south-east  of  the 
camp.  I  chose  this  as  a  starting  point,  since  I  was  rather  keen  not  to 
get  lost  in  the  forest  again  as  I  had  done  only  a  short  time  before. 

Entering  the  dense  forest  beyond  this  open  grass  area,  I  was  rather 
surprised  to  find  that  the  ground  descended  very  abruptly.  Before  I 
had  gone  far,  I  saw  at  a  distance  below  me  the  glimmer  of  sun  re- 
flected from  water.  By  some  exigencies  of  local  geological  structure, 
the  Mainyu  River  that  we  knew  so  well  elsewhere  had  got  twisted 
up  into  a  knot  and  meandered  off  into  the  jungle,  to  appear  here 
flowing  in  an  exactly  contrary  direction  to  its  main  course.  This  we 
discovered  later  by  following  it  downstream.  I  at  once  decided  that 
this  was  to  be  our  future  happy  hunting  ground  and  the  site  of  our 
next  camp. 

The  whole  structure  of  this  gorge  will  one  day  prove  of  the  great- 
est interest  to  geologists.  It  is  a  natural  model  of  the  great  Rift  Valley 
of  East  Africa.  Following  a  subsidence  or  a  great  release  of  pressure, 


26  IVAN  T.   SANDERSON 

the  land  surface  has  simply  collapsed  along  a  central  line  now  occu- 
pied by  the  river.  The  "country"  rock,  as  it  is  called,  has  fractured 
all  along  into  gargantuan  cubes  which,  with  the  general  subsidence, 
have  shifted  about  so  that  they  may  be  likened  to  the  lumps  of  sugar 
in  a  bowl.  Between  them  and  under  them  are  almost  endless  narrow 
clefts  and  passages  leading  into  the  side  of  the  gorge,  along  its  face, 
and  out  again  into  the  open  air. 

The  whole  area  was  covered  with  dense  forest.  As  I  began  explor- 
ing the  level,  sandy  floors  of  the  street-like  passageways  between  the 
great  chunks  of  rock,  the  light  became  fainter  and  fainter.  There  was 
practically  no  bare  rock  at  all,  every  inch  of  its  surface  where  there 
was  any  light  being  covered  with  smooth,  soft,  bright-green  moss. 
The  place  was  like  a  buried  city,  silent,  mysterious,  and  eerie. 

Turning  an  abrupt  corner,  I  came  upon  a  wide  sunken  arena  over- 
hung by  a  tall  cliff.  In  the  very  dim  light  under  this  natural  arch  I 
saw  an  endless  stream  of  bats  passing  to  and  fro  from  the  mouth  of 
a  cave  at  one  end  to  a  monstrous  horizontal  crack  at  the  other.  The 
whole  roof  of  this  archway  was  a  dense  mass  of  sleeping  bats,  sus- 
pended upside  down  in  serried  ranks.  The  ground  below  was  cov- 
ered to  a  depth  of  more  than  a  foot  with  their  excrement,  which  had 
disintegrated  under  the  influence  of  the  weather  and  resulted  in  a 
mass  of  broken  remains  of  uncountable  millions  of  insects. 

In  this  stratum  of  bat  guano,  I  found  a  number  of  peculiar  insects 
and  a  small  bright-red  millepede  that  I  have  never  seen  anywhere 
else. 

By  a  mere  fluke  I  had  a  torch  in  my  collecting  bag;  with  its  aid  I 
entered  the  cave.  Though  the  mouth  was  just  wide  enough  to  per- 
mit my  squeezing  through,  it  expanded  somewhat  within  and  rose 
to  a  great  height  above.  On  both  walls,  as  far  as  the  light  of  the  torch 
penetrated,  bats  were  hanging  or  crawling  about.  The  air  was  liter- 
ally filled  with  them.  The  floor  here  was  covered  with  guano  to  such 
a  depth  that  I  could  not  reach  the  earth  below  even  by  digging  with 
a  trapper's  friend! 

I  was  so  amazed  at  the  whole  place  and  its  denizens  that  I  forgot 
all  time  and  scrambled  onwards  into  the  depths,  following  the  end- 
less streams  of  bats  that  hurried  along  and  round  the  corners  just  as 
busy  traffic  does  in  the  streets  of  a  great  city. 

Turning  a  corner,  I  was  confronted  by  a  blank  wall.  The  bats  were 
all  passing  upwards  and  disappearing  over  the  top  of  a  miniature 
cliff.  I  clambered  up  with  some  difficulty,  to  find  that  I  was  on  top 
of  one  of  the  great  blocks  of  rock.  The  next  one  above  it  was  held 
away  by  a  third  block's  edge  far  to  the  right.  This  left  a  horizontal 


BATS  27 

gallery  that  stretched  far  ahead,  beyond  which  I  could  see  a  large 
chamber.  Into  this  I  eventually  emerged  complete  with  gun  and  all 
other  equipment,  after  a  few  uncomfortable  minutes  of  wriggling 
through,  all  the  time  obsessed  with  that  ridiculous  but  persistent  im- 
pression that  the  roof  would  suddenly  cave  in  and  pin  me  in  a  not 
quite  dead  condition  where  nobody  would  ever  in  any  circumstances 
find  me. 

The  place  I  now  found  myself  in  was  much  larger  than  any  that 
I  had  previously  passed  through.  It  was  nearly  the  size  of  one  whole 
block  and  almost  exactly  cubic  in  shape.  The  air  was  as  dry  as  a 
desert  sandstorm;  whether  it  was  due  to  this  or  the  pungent  smell  of 
the  bats  I  do  not  know,  but  my  lips  became  hard  and  cracked  in  a 
surprisingly  short  time  and  my  eyes  began  to  water.  The  roof  was 
altogether  free  from  resting  bats,  but  on  the  walls  were  what  I  at 
first  supposed  to  be  a  great  number  of  them.  Some  being  very  low 
down,  I  put  down  my  collecting  bag  and  gun,  and  advanced  with  the 
torch  and  a  net  only,  to  try  to  effect  a  capture. 

As  I  approached  the  side,  however,  these  things  that  I  had  sup- 
posed to  be  bats  vanished  as  if  by  magic.  One  minute  they  were 
there;  the  next  they  were  gone.  By  the  time  that  I  was  close  enough 
to  the  rock  face  to  be  able  to  see  what  they  were,  had  they  still  been 
there,  there  was  not  one  in  sight.  This  was  most  perplexing. 

Deciding  that  the  light  must  disturb  them,  if  they  were  not  mere 
shadows,  I  put  out  the  torch  and  crept  forward  to  another  wall. 
When  I  judged  that  I  was  close  enough,  I  suddenly  flashed  on  the 
torch  again.  A  perfectly  horrible  vision  met  my  eyes.  The  whole  wall 
was  covered  with  enormous  whip-scorpions,  crouching  and  leering 
at  me.  Only  for  a  second  did  they  remain,  then,  like  a  flash,  they  all 
shot  out  and  away  in  all  directions,  disappearing  into  paper-thick 
crevices  with  a  loathsome  rustle. 

Their  behaviour  and  appearance  are,  as  I  have  remarked  before, 
revolting  in  the  extreme,  but  they  were  of  such  unusual  size  and 
colour  that  for  the  sake  of  science  I  steeled  myself  to  a  systematic 
hunt  with  all  the  low  cunning  of  a  cave  man  in  search  of  food.  Even- 
tually I  captured  a  few  after  many  misses,  once  being  subjected  to 
the  nerve-shattering  odiousness  of  having  one  of  them  scuttle  over 
my  bare  arm  in  escaping  from  the  net. 

After  this  experience  I  deemed  science  had  sufficient  material  to 
gloat  over,  and  I  devoted  my  attention  to  an  examination  of  the 
ground  for  other  invertebrates.  The  bats  were  entering  by  the  same 
route  as  I  had  done.  After  crossing  the  gallery  diagonally,  they  disap- 
peared through  one  of  three  vertical  fissures,  though  most  of  them 


28  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

streamed  into  and  out  of  the  left-hand  one,  which  was  the  widest. 
Across  the  floor  below  the  line  of  their  flight  stretched  a  ridge  of 
their  droppings,  showing  that  they  excrete  while  on  the  wing.  Else- 
where the  floor  was  covered  with  silver  sand  and  spotlessly  clean. 
Only  in  one  corner  of  the  room,  remote  from  the  bat  highway,  was 
there  a  pile  of  small,  pellet-like  dung. 

Examining  this,  I  at  once  noticed  that  it  was  not  composed  of  the 
crushed  remains  of  insects  as  was  that  of  the  other  bats.  It  resembled 
more  the  droppings  of  a  rabbit,  although  there  seemed  to  be  a  few 
small  bones  projecting  from  it.  This  prompted  me  to  search  the  ceil- 
ing above  to  ascertain  where  this  might  be  descending  from.  All  I 
could  see,  however,  was  a  small  cleft  above;  so,  taking  the  shotgun, 
I  managed  by  degrees  to  lever  myself  up  the  sharp  angle  of  the  cor- 
ner and  eventually  peered  over  the  brink  into  the  cleft. 

As  I  switched  on  the  torch,  I  went  cold  all  over  and  felt  as  if  my 
skin  were  wrinkling  up  everywhere  preparatory  to  splitting  and  fall- 
ing off  in  one  piece.  The  only  alternative  to  looking  into  the  crevice 
a  second  time  was  falling  down  backwards.  Therefore,  after  sum- 
moning up  courage,  I  switched  on  the  torch  again  and  took  a  second 
look.  The  result  was  just  as  bad. 

In  the  mouth  of  the  hole  not  eighteen  inches  from  my  face,  four 
large  greenish-yellow  eyes  stared  unblinkingly  at  me.  They  were  so 
large  that  I  thought  involuntarily  of  some  dead  human  thing,  but 
the  face  that  projected  in  front  of  them  soon  dispelled  this  impres- 
sion. That  face  is  indescribable.  In  addition  there  were  clammy  grop- 
ing ringers  all  muddled  up  with  endless  flaps  of  wrinkled  naked  skin. 
I  pushed  in  the  net  and  made  a  random  scoop;  then  I  slipped  and 
crashed  to  the  bottom  of  the  cave. 

The  gun,  luckily,  fell  in  the  soft  sand,  and  I  retained  hold  of  the 
net  in  which  a  huge  hammer-headed  bat  (Hypsignathus  monstrosus) 
was  struggling.  My  left  leg  was  emitting  piercing  pains  and  both 
wrists  were  quite  numbed.  There  followed  an  awful  period  during 
which  I  tried  to  kill  the  bat  in  the  net  and  nursed  my  leg  and  arms, 
making,  I  am  afraid,  a  great  deal  of  noise  about  it.  At  last  I  got  the 
animal  under  control  and  chloroformed  in  the  "killer,"  and  then  set 
about  gathering  together  the  wreckage.  When  I  came  to  the  gun,  my 
wrists  were  still  numb,  but  being  anxious  to  make  sure  that  there 
was  no  sand  choking  the  barrel,  I  foolishly  tried  to  open  the  breech. 
I  am  not  exactly  certain  what  happened;  anyway,  both  barrels  went 
off  almost  at  once  and  the  gun  shot  partly  out  of  my  hand. 

At  the  same  moment  the  light  went  out. 


BATS  29 

There  was  a  period  of  tremendous  echoing,  then  the  whole  of  this 
eerie  subterranean  world  seemed  to  give  way,  starting  with  a  gentle 
"swussssh"  and  culminating  in  a  rattling  roar.  Things  fell  down  on 
all  sides;  choking  dust  filled  the  air;  while  I  groped  for  the  torch, 
hundreds  of  bats  wheeled  around  my  head  screaming  and  twittering. 

The  torch  would  not  light;  for  some  maddening  reason  it  was  not 
forming  a  proper  contact.  I  had  to  sit  down  and  take  the  batteries 
out  in  the  dark.  I  pulled  out  the  metal  strips  on  the  ends  and  pro- 
cured a  flash  of  light  by  holding  on  the  screw  cap  at  the  back  of  the 
container.  In  my  excitement  I  could  not  for  the  life  of  me  get  this 
screw  onto  the  thread.  Finally  I  had  to  light  a  match,  but  before  I 
could  see  anything,  the  flame  went  greenish-blue  and  quickly  died. 
Other  matches  did  the  same. 

I  had  just  discovered  that  they  burnt  better  at  a  higher  level  when, 
with  an  awful  crash,  a  shower  of  earth  cascaded  down  from  my  right 
side  and  covered  my  feet  and  most  of  my  equipment,  which  was  lying 
on  the  floor.  There  was  a  wild  scramble  to  retrieve  all  my  possessions 
and  move  to  a  bit  of  clearer  ground,  but  every  time  I  bent  down,  the 
match  went  out.  There  was  obviously  some  gas  or  lack  of  gas  that 
killed  a  flame  near  the  floor.  I  therefore  concentrated  on  fixing  the 
torch.  At  long  last  it  lit  up. 

It  was  less  use  than  a  car  headlight  in  a  dense  mist,  because  the  air 
was  filled  with  clouds  of  billowing  dust  from  which  a  very  much 
startled  bat  periodically  emerged.  Groping  forward,  festooned  with 
gun,  collecting  bag,  net,  and  torch,  I  tried  to  locate  the  wall  with  the 
cleft  through  which  I  had  gained  an  entrance,  but  I  soon  lost  my 
sense  of  direction.  Then  I  stumbled  across  the  ridge  of  bats'  dung. 
This  I  followed  up  until  it  disappeared  under  a  great  scree  of  fine 
dry  earth  which  was  still  being  added  to  from  above.  After  further 
fumbling  I  found  the  cleft;  the  dust  was  so  dense  that  I  could  not  see 
more  than  a  few  feet  into  it.  This  was,  however,  quite  sufficient  really 
to  disturb  me. 

The  cleft  was  choked  with  earth  and  rubble.  Slowly  it  dawned  on 
me  that  the  percussion  of  the  shots  had  released  all  kinds  of  pent-up 
things  and  perhaps  even  shifted  the  roof,  as  I  had  imagined  might 
happen  through  natural  causes. 

By  this  time  the  dust  had  begun  to  clear  considerably  and  the 
rumblings  and  droppings  had  ceased.  I  trekked  back  to  the  other  side 
of  the  cave  and  tried  each  of  the  three  exits.  The  largest,  upon  which 
I  based  my  hopes,  narrowed  quickly,  then  plunged  downward  into 
a  low,  uninviting  crevice.  One  of  the  others  was  too  narrow  to  per- 


30  IVAN  T.   SANDERSON 

mit  the  passage  of  my  head,  while  the  third,  although  very  small, 
seemed  to  continue  endlessly.  Its  floor  descended  rapidly,  however, 
and  I  soon  discovered  that  the  air  was  very  bad  a  few  feet  down- 
matches  hardly  lit  at  all.  I  had  therefore  to  return  to  the  central  cave 
from  which  I  felt  almost  certain  there  were  no  other  exits.  As  the 
dtist  was  by  now  less  thick,  I  determined  to  go  all  round  and  make 
certain. 

There  proved  to  be  a  hopeful-looking  chimney  in  one  corner,  but 
trv  as  I  would,  my  left  leg  steadfastly  refused  to  assist  me  to  climb! 
This  was  rendered  even  more  exasperating  by  the  fact  that  a  piece 
of  burning  paper  thrown  upwards  to  its  mouth  was  instantly  sucked 
up  out  of  sight  never  to  return,  which  all  went  to  show  that  the 
passage  had  some  connexion  with  the  outer  world.  Burning  bits  of 
note-book  were  then  applied  to  the  three  exits.  In  one  the  flame 
promptly  went  out,  in  another  it  just  wilted,  and  only  in  the  nar- 
rowest one  did  it  sail  away  into  the  distance,  burning  merrily.  Such 
a  result  might,  of  course,  have  been  predicted! 

It  then  struck  me  that  the  choked  entrance  might  not  be  all 
choked,  so,  scrambling  along  the  ledge  formed  by  the  long  hori- 
zontal mouth  of  this,  I  peered  among  the  piles  of  earth  that  now 
clogged  it,  pushing  small  pieces  of  burning  paper  into  any  gaps  or 
hole  that  remained.  About  two-thirds  of  the  way  down  to  the  right 
the  paper  left  my  hand  and  blew  straight  into  my  face.  I  could  feel 
a  small  draught.  The  hole  was  very  low  and  descended  towards  the 
right,  whereas  the  part  of  this  gigantic  crack  through  which  I  had 
come  further  up  had  distinctly  sloped  upwards  out  of  the  square 
chamber.  There  was  fresh  air  coming  in,  so,  provided  it  was  not  too 
small,  it  seemed  the  only  feasible  exit.  I  accordingly  packed  every- 
thing into  the  collecting  bag,  including  the  stock  of  the  gun,  wrapped 
the  gun-barrel  in  the  muslin  bag  of  the  net  to  prevent  its  getting 
scratched,  crammed  my  felt  hat  onto  my  head  for  the  same  reason, 
and,  holding  the  torch  in  my  right  hand,  committed  myself  to  the 
depths  and  the  will  of  Allah. 

Progress  was  slow  and  at  one  period  extremely  painful,  for  the 
ceiling— being  the  flat  underside  of  a  giant  tilted  cube— gradually 
descended  until  there  was  room  for  me  to  squeeze  through  only  with 
the  greatest  difficulty.  This  effort  I  had  to  make,  because  I  could 
reach  for  and  feel  the  angular  edge  of  the  ceiling  cube  just  beyond. 
This  edge  was  as  sharp  as  the  angle  on  a  small  pack  of  cigarettes, 
though  the  block  of  rock  above  must  have  weighed  thousands  of 
tons.  Through  this  slit  I  must  get,  and  it  was  a  struggle  in  no  way 
made  easier  by  having  a  now  more  or  less  useless  left  leg  and  also  hav- 


BATS  31 

ing  to  get  the  collecting  bag  over  my  head  in  order  to  push  it  through 
before  me.  How  I  envied  those  beastly  Amblypygi! 

Once  through,  I  found  myself  in  a  long  wide  corridor  again  im- 
maculately carpeted  with  silver  sand.  Having  by  now  lost  all  sense 
of  direction,  I  set  off  to  the  left,  where  I  was  soon  involved  in  a  tum- 
bled mass  of  immense  angular  boulders.  To  climb  over  them  was  a 
little  more  than  I  felt  prepared  to  attempt,  so  I  dived  in  and  tried 
to  find  a  way  through.  This  led  me  into  a  tunnel  that  smelt  strongly 
and  vaguely  familiar.  Before  I  had  time  to  think  what  the  cause  of 
it  could  be,  a  rasping  grunt  echoed  out  from  its  depths;  realizing  at 
once  that  I  had  walked  voluntarily  into  a  leopard's  private  quarters, 
I  lost  absolutely  no  time  at  all  in  passing  back  through  those  boul- 
ders as  if  I  were  a  sandworm  brought  up  to  perform  such  feats.  The 
only  course  now  was  to  try  the  other  way,  as  I  had  no  desire  to  meet 
a  leopard,  and  even  less  to  fire  at  one  with  a  shotgun  in  the  depths  of 
the  earth,  considering  what  had  occurred  after  the  last  cannonade. 

The  other  end  was  a  perfectly  smooth  blank  wall.  I  began  to  feel 
rather  desperate,  a  thing  one  should  not  do  in  well-regulated  adven- 
tures. The  feeling  was  nevertheless  sufficiently  insistent  to  call  for 
a  cigarette.  How  I  thanked  everything,  not  least  myself,  that  I  had 
cigarettes! 

While  seated  on  the  sand  smoking,  feeling  sorry  for  myself,  and 
recounting  a  lot  of  things  I  should  like  to  have  done,  I  played  my 
torch  hither  and  thither  over  the  opposite  wall.  It  was  only  after  a 
long  time  that  it  dawned  on  me  that  I  was  gazing  at  great  patches  of 
green  moss.  Even  after  this  it  was  a  long  time,  during  which  I  re- 
packed my  equipment,  bandaged  a  knee,  and  smoked  another  ciga- 
rette, before  my  idiot  brain  put  two  and  two  together  and  arrived 
at  the  simple  fact  that  green  moss  meant  sunlight.  Then  all  at  once 
this  fact  penetrated  my  silly  head  and  I  realized  that  I  had  never  yet 
looked  at  the  roof.  I  flashed  my  torch  upwards  and  saw  a  line  of  green 
branches  dangling  down  into  the  cleft.  During  my  subterranean  me- 
anderings  night  had  come— I  was  actually  standing  in  the  open  air. 

Putting  the  gun  together  and  loading  it  against  a  chance  encoun- 
ter with  the  inhabitant  of  the  boulders,  I  advanced  on  his  domain. 
After  some  exertion  I  managed  to  climb  up  over  the  boulders  to 
arrive  among  the  roots  of  the  trees  near  the  bottom  of  the  gorge. 

Two  hours  later  I  was  back  in  camp,  sore,  temporarily  crippled, 
and  very  thirsty. 

I  have  mentioned  so  far  our  introduction  to  five  West  African 
bats.  We  collected  during  our  stay  around   Mamfe   no   less  than 


33  IVAN  T.   SANDERSON 

twenty-five  species,  though  most  of  these  were  represented  by  only 
one  or  two  specimens. 

Whenever  we  smoked  trees  in  the  high  forest,  the  first  things  to 
come  out  were  bats.  They  emerged  around  the  summit,  fluttering 
about  and  trying  to  regain  an  entrance,  until  they  decided  it  was  too 
warm  and  rocketed  off  into  the  surrounding  forest.  When  we  did 
eventually  reach  some  of  these  with  the  guns,  they  turned  out  to  be 
of  three  species,  two  of  which  were  closely  allied  to  the  two  species 
we  had  caught  in  the  rest  house  at  Mamfe.  The  third  (Hipposideros 
cyclops)  was  something  entirely  new. 

This  was  a  stout  animal  of  moderate  dimensions  covered  with 
thick,  long,  rather  woolly  hair  of  brindled  silver-grey  and  dark 
brownish-grey  colour.  The  eyes,  set  in  a  most  saturnine  face,  were 
large  for  a  bat,  the  nose-leaf  was  a  flat,  more  or  less  simple  circle,  and 
the  lips  were  rather  taut,  so  that  the  sharp  teeth  were  visible.  But  the 
ears  gave  the  whole  face  a  very  startling  appearance.  Almost  as  long 
as  the  body,  they  tapered  to  fine  points,  besides  being  corrugated 
throughout  their  length. 

We  kept  alive  several  of  these  that  had  fallen  upon  the  wire  net- 
ting dazed  by  the  smoke.  During  the  day  they  hung  upside  down  as 
all  good  bats  should;  in  the  evening  they  began  to  stir  and  climbed 
down  the  side  of  the  cage.  They  then  walked  about  the  floor  on  their 
wings,  supported  by  the  fingers,  pointing  backwards  and  upwards. 
When  they  prepared  to  take  to  the  air  either  from  the  ground  or  the 
side  of  the  cage,  they  thrust  their  heads  forward  and  flapped  their 
great  ears  just  as  if  they  were  an  accessory  pair  of  wings.  The  arms 
then  took  up  the  motion  in  rhythm  and  the  animal  was  on  the 
wing. 

These  bats,  which  slept  in  trees  by  day,  came  to  us  with  greater 
ease  than  any  of  the  others,  provided  they  were  within  the  range  of 
the  gun.  As  almost  every  tree  housed  a  few,  we  gradually  accumu- 
lated quite  a  number. 

One  of  the  two  species  that  we  obtained  in  the  Mamfe  rest  house 
(Hipposideros  caffer)  was  small  and  grey  in  colour,  with  small,  rather 
pointed  ears.  Another  variety  of  this  species  made  up  the  swarms 
that  inhabited  the  caves  in  the  Mainyu  Gorge,  and  another  variety 
came  from  hollow  trees  in  the  forest.  When  staying  at  Ikom  further 
down  the  river,  we  again  converted  the  house  into  a  bat  trap  and 
obtained  another  variety  of  this  common  type.  This  was  an  excep- 
tionally beautiful  little  animal  having  bluish-black  wing-  and  tail- 
membranes  and  ears.  The  fur  covering  the  rest  of  the  body  was  long, 
silky,  and  of  a  rich  reddish-orange  colour.  This  is  the  only  bat  I  have 


BATS  33 

ever  handled  that  emitted  a  long-drawn-out  whistle,  a  noise  to  which 
I  can  find  no  reference  in  any  literature  upon  the  subject. 

There  was  still  another  form  of  this  bat  that  we  met  with  in  a 
rather  odd  manner. 

Mamfe  Division,  which  has  an  area  almost  exactly  equal  to  that 
of  the  whole  island  of  Jamaica,  has  only  one  road.  This  is  about 
twenty  miles  in  length  and  extends  from  the  station  towards  the 
east,  where  it  terminates  at  a  fine  steel  bridge  of  three  spans  which 
abuts  at  its  farther  end  onto  a  solid  wall  of  virgin  jungle  without 
so  much  as  a  native  path  leading  from  it.  This  road  and  bridge  were 
constructed  by  the  public  works  department  as  the  commencement 
of  a  projected  trade  route  to  carry  motor  traffic  from  the  hinterland 
of  Bamenda  down  to  the  British  ports  of  southern  Nigeria.  The 
financial  depression,  yellow  fever,  which  accounted  for  a  dozen  Euro- 
peans, and  the  fact  that  a  score  of  large  rivers  flowing  from  north  to 
south  were  overlooked  when  drawing  up  plans,  killed  the  project, 
which  had,  in  any  case,  been  started  in  the  middle.  Its  main  use, 
therefore,  is  that  two  Ford  trucks,  and  occasionally  the  remains  of 
an  Austin-7  that  have  been  brought  up  the  river  on  a  "launch"  dur- 
ing the  rainy  season,  can  be  employed  for  the  first  day's  trek  to  the 
east  of  Mamfe.  This  was  the  one  direction  in  which  we  never  had 
cause  to  go,  so  our  acquaintance  with  it  was  confined  to  strolls  in  the 
evening  and  an  occasional  joy  ride  in  the  Ford  truck  with  the  hos- 
pitable district  commissioner. 

We  had  noticed  that  this  man-made  canyon  through  the  forest  was 
a  great  place  for  bats.  Towards  dusk  they  appeared  either  flying  high 
in  the  air,  as  they  must  do  all  over  the  forest,  although  they  cannot 
be  seen  elsewhere,  or  darting  back  and  forth  from  the  shadow  of  the 
trees  on  one  side  of  the  road  to  that  of  the  trees  on  the  other.  Closer 
investigation  disclosed  the  fact  that  bats  came  out  along  this  road  in 
the  evening  at  a  much  earlier  hour  than  elsewhere.  The  apparent 
reason  for  this  was  the  presence  of  a  number  of  large  drains  or  cul- 
verts running  under  the  road  at  intervals.  The  bats  used  these  as  a 
dark  passage  between  the  gloom  of  the  trees  on  both  sides  of  the 
road. 

Having  ascertained  this  fact,  we  laid  plans  for  catching  them.  As 
we  had  been  away  working  very  hard  in  the  less  accessible  parts  of 
the  forest  for  some  time,  and  the  birthday  of  one  of  our  number  was 
approaching,  we  reckoned  that  there  was  ample  excuse  for  a  little 
harmless  frivolity.  Into  this  scheme  the  only  other  two  European  in- 
habitants of  Mamfe  (at  that  time)  entered  heartily.  We  organized  a 
fancy-dress  bat  shoot. 


34  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

After  tea  the  Ford  truck  came  to  the  door  of  the  district  officer's 
house.  The  party  foregathered  in  the  most  amazing  assortment  of 
improvised  fancy  dress:  "le  sportsman  tres  gallique";  "the  Yankee 
in  the  tropics";  a  valiant  edition  of  General  Goring  clad  to  chase  the 
Polish  boar;  and  a  "not-very-sporting  English  squire."  The  African 
truck-driver  wore  a  sky-blue  cap  and  a  shirt,  so  that  we  were  not 
quite  certain  whether  he  was  entering  into  the  spirit  of  the  thing, 
being  simply  chic  according  to  local  custom,  or  behaving  in  a  man- 
ner that  called  for  reprimand  on  the  grounds  of  incivility.  The  only 
truly  normal  members  of  the  party  were  our  five  skinners,  who  came 
in  their  ordinary  uniforms  of  grey  shirts  and  white  shorts,  bearing 
guns  and  nets. 

The  party  set  out  for  the  road  some  three  miles  into  the  forest  and 
there  deployed,  taking  up  positions  over  the  various  drains.  Quite 
soon  the  bats  began  to  appear.  A  fusillade  was  let  loose,  but  the  tiny 
animals  are  so  swift  that  one  saw  only  a  vague  flash  as  they  shot  across 
the  space  separating  the  entrance  to  the  culverts  from  the  neighbour- 
ing wall  of  the  forest.  Nobody  secured  a  direct  hit,  but  Mr.  Gorges, 
the  district  officer,  who  was  an  extremely  good  shot,  on  two  occasions 
aimed  sufficiently  close  to  upset  the  bats'  sense  of  direction.  As  ani- 
mals fluttered  around  in  a  circle,  Bassi,  who  was  stationed  at  one  end 
of  his  drain,  dived  in  with  a  net  and  made  a  capture  of  the  first.  On 
the  second  occasion,  however,  the  bat  managed  to  flutter  into  the 
drain  and  Bassi  went  in  after  it.  As  he  did  so,  a  perfect  flight  of  bats 
came  out  of  the  other  end,  and  I  joined  Mr.  Gorges  in  an  attempt  to 
pot  them.  This  we  continued  to  do  quite  merrily  until  all  of  a  sud- 
den Bassi's  nut-brown  head  appeared  amid  the  flying  targets.  By 
some  fluke  we  were  not  firing  at  that  instant.  He  had  crawled  right 
through  the  drain. 

This  gave  us  a  new  idea.  We  climbed  down  into  the  ditch  and  lay 
in  position  to  look  down  the  drains.  As  soon  as  the  number  of  bats 
had  entered  from  the  other  end,  flown  towards  us,  and  sensed  our 
presence,  we  fired  a  shot.  We  never  once  hit  a  bat,  but  they  were 
so  bewildered  by  the  percussion  of  the  shot  that  they  came  to  rest 
on  the  roof  of  the  drain  and  we  sent  the  Africans  in  to  collect  them 
alive. 

This  resulted  in  the  capture  of  a  great  number  of  bats  which 
turned  out  to  be  this  other  variety  of  Hipposideros  caffer.  They  were 
all  some  shade  of  brown  and  much  smaller  than  the  types  we  had 
collected  elsewhere. 

This  method  of  collecting  was  indeed  child's  play  compared  to 
the  highly  technical  skill  and  great  patience  which  George  devoted 


BATS  35 

to  the  shooting  of  another  species.  These  were  the  smallest  bats  I 
have  ever  seen;  in  actual  bulk  they  must  be  the  smallest  of  all  mam- 
mals, despite  the  claims  of  the  pygmy  squirrel  (Nannosciurus)  to  that 
distinction.  The  trunk  of  this  animal  when  skinned  was  about  the 
size  of  a  bumble  bee  and  a  good  deal  smaller  than  the  last  joint  of  a 
small  woman's  little  finger. 

As  I  have  already  mentioned,  George,  when  in  the  deep  forest, 
adopted  the  method  of  sitting  in  concealment  and  waiting  for  the 
passing  of  the  animals.  When  thus  employed  one  evening,  he  noticed 
far  up  in  the  sky  above  the  trees  some  very  small  bats  flying  about  in 
a  manner  quite  unknown  among  these  animals,  so  that  at  first  he 
mistook  them  for  swallows.  Deciding  that  he  must  discover  what  they 
were,  with  more  than  praiseworthy  ambition  he  set  himself  the  task 
of  shooting  some,  a  problem  which  I  should  have  judged  quite  hope- 
less. However,  he  eventually  found  a  place  where  the  ground  rose 
sufficiently  for  him  to  gain  a  clear  view  over  some  trees.  There  he 
patiently  waited  for  several  evenings  until  one  of  the  bats  happened 
to  fly  low  enough  to  be  within  gun-shot  range.  By  this  painstaking 
method  he  obtained  two  specimens  of  this  extremely  rare  species 
(Glauconycteris  beatrix). 

These  animals  were  dark  steel-grey  in  colour  with  long  slender 
wings  and  simple  noses  like  a  dog's. 

Another  bat,  Rhinolophus  landeri,  which  we  collected  and  which 
also  proves  to  be  very  rare,  was  represented  by  four  specimens.  When 
living  with  the  friendly  peoples  of  the  northern  mountains  we  had 
a  kind  of  working  contract  with  the  hunter  named  Afa,  as  I  have 
already  mentioned.  One  day  I  asked  him  for  bats,  indicating  my 
wishes  by  exhibiting  a  stuffed  specimen. 

"Ah,"  he  said  in  his  own  language,  "I  know  where  one  sleeps." 

This  was  such  an  astonishing  remark  that  I  was  not  sure  that  my 
rather  sketchy  knowledge  of  the  language  combined  with  the  inter- 
preter were  not  letting  me  down.  However,  Afa  disappeared  and  did 
not  return  until  just  before  dusk.  When  he  did  so,  he  extracted  a 
live  bat  from  his  gun-powder  wallet.  It  was  this  species,  covered  in 
silky  grey  hair,  with  a  tuft  of  red  bristles  in  each  armpit,  and  bearing 
a  small  fleshy  crucifix  on  its  nose. 

Apparently  he  had  walked,  or  rather  climbed,  about  nine  miles  to 
a  tiny  cave  which  I  afterwards  visited,  where  he  had  seen  this  animal 
hanging  asleep  some  days  previously  when  sheltering  there  from  a 
storm. 

Two  other  rare  species,  one  new  to  science,  came  to  us  quite  by 
chance.  They  could  not  be  distinguished  apart  by  colour  and  size 


36  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

alone,  both  being  bluish-grey  and  small.  Only  their  nose-leaves  and 
ears  showed  them  to  be  quite  different.  One,  a  new  species  of  Hippo- 
sideros.  was  shot  by  the  district  officer  in  his  house;  the  other,  named 
Rhinolophus  alcyone,  landed  at  my  feet  after  I  had  shot  at  a  squirrel 
in  a  tree  near  a  plantation.  One  pellet  had  passed  right  through  the 
head.  I  had  never  seen  this  bat  before. 

Just  before  returning  home,  we  paid  a  visit  to  N'ko,  a  large  village 
lower  down  the  Cross  River.  Here  we  met  with  extraordinary  hos- 
pitality at  the  hands  of  the  local  inhabitants.  They  had  never  seen 
more  than  one  white  man  at  a  time  before,  never  heard  a  gramo- 
phone, and,  I  believe,  never  imagined  that  such  a  thing  as  a  bug- 
hunter  existed,  especially  attended  by  nearly  forty  retainers,  to  which 
number  our  staff  of  skinners,  trappers,  collectors,  and  household 
servants  had  by  that  time  swelled. 

When  we  announced  that  we  required  local  animal  life  and  would 
pay  for  it,  the  whole  populace  disappeared  into  the  neighbouring 
bush  and  was  soon  returning  in  an  endless  stream  bearing  every 
imaginable  kind  of  animal. 

Later  that  evening  a  tribal  dance  was  organized  for  our  entertain- 
ment. In  the  headdresses  of  the  various  ju-ju  figures  I  spotted  the 
dried  remains  of  a  species  of  bat  that  I  did  not  know.  I  inquired  of 
the  chief  whether  he  could  procure  for  me  some  live  specimens  of 
this  animal.  He  seemed  morose.  After  some  effort  I  discovered  that 
the  animal  was  regarded  with  considerable  veneration  from  the  point 
of  view  of  a  fertility  ju-ju.  A  monetary  contribution  to  the  privy 
purse,  however,  combined  with  the  fact,  soon  observed  by  the 
chief,  that  I  had  almost  as  virulent  a  dislike  of  Christians  as  he  had, 
prompted  him  to  dispatch  a  number  of  small  boys  into  the  jungle. 

They  returned  some  time  later  with  handfuls  of  fluttering  little 
bats  (a  species  of  the  genus  known  as  Eptesicus),  among  which  was 
an  albino.  I  subsequently  stumbled  upon  the  "mine"  from  which 
these  bats  had  been  obtained.  It  was  a  small  ju-ju  tabernacle  not 
more  than  two  hundred  yards  behind  the  hut  where  we  were  living. 
Under  the  eaves  of  the  tabernacle  countless  bats  were  sleeping,  cov- 
ering the  altar  with  their  guano,  which  had  been  cleared  away  except 
within  an  area  that  had  an  outline  representing  a  gigantic  bat  with 
outstretched  wings. 

The  frugivorous  bats  or  megacheiroptera  are  mostly  larger  ani- 
mals, some  in  the  Oriental  region  having  a  wing  span  exceeding  four 
feet.  We  obtained  eight  species  of  this  group,  four  of  which  were, 
however,  of  very  small  size.  They  do  not  have  nose-leaves  and  their 


BATS  37 

ears  are  usually  simple,  like  those  of  other  animals.  Their  heads, 
nevertheless,  show  an  amazing  variety  of  form;  one  was  exactly  like 
a  calf's,  another  like  a  mastiff's,  and  the  hammer-headed  bat's  more 
like  a  horse's  than  anything  one  could  imagine. 

In  the  mountains  of  Assumbo  we  pitched  a  camp  on  one  occasion 
in  a  little  tongue  of  grass  that  descended  into  a  patch  of  mountain 
forest.  This  was  Camp  III,  from  which  we  carried  out  most  of  our 
investigations  upon  the  wild  life  of  these  weird  grass-covered  moun- 
tains. It  was  a  desolate  place  miles  from  anywhere  in  the  clear  still 
air,  raised  far  above  the  teeming  life  of  the  tropical  forests,  and  com- 
pletely cut  off  from  the  rest  of  the  world.  As  far  as  the  eye  could  see, 
long  grass  waved  in  the  sighing  wind  as  shimmering  flushes  crossed 
and  recrossed  it  like  surf  on  a  wide  beach.  Our  little  encampment 
nestled  in  a  hollow  backed  by  the  peculiar  tangled  trees  found  at  this 
altitude,  through  which  rippled  and  tinkled  a  broad,  crystal-clear 
brook. 

There  were  only  two  ways  of  penetrating  this  mountain  forest: 
first,  by  following  strange  little  paths  made  by  large  buck,  or,  sec- 
ondly, by  wading  along  the  beds  of  rivers  and  streams.  We  passed 
by  both  these  ways,  though  usually  along  the  main  stream  in  the 
evening. 

This  was  a  somewhat  difficult  feat  as  I  will  endeavour  to  explain. 
The  clear  water  swirled  along  a  bed,  now  deep  and  narrow,  now 
wide  and  shallow,  but  everywhere  strewn  and  piled  with  boulders 
both  great  and  small.  Only  occasionally  were  there  deep,  still  pools 
between  perpendicular  rock  walls  where  the  cold  water  lay  oily  and 
brown.  There  were  endless  rapids  where  cascades  gushed  between 
boulders  the  size  of  a  house,  and  beyond  them  great,  wide,  boulder- 
strewn  fields  where  the  water  all  but  disappeared,  being  subdivided 
into  a  hundred  thousand  tiny  trickles.  This  made  a  passage  down 
the  bed  of  the  little  river  rather  difficult.  Nevertheless,  it  remained 
the  lesser  evil,  because  the  banks  were  both  impenetrable  masses  of 
vegetation.  Even  those  who  know  the  tropical  forests  and  mangroves 
of  the  great  tropical  deltas  would  be  confounded  by  the  true  moun- 
tain forest.  It  is  a  growth  found  nowhere  else  but  on  elevated  areas 
in  the  equatorial  regions. 

It  seems  that  in  these  regions  there  is  a  constant  battle  between  the 
trees  and  the  high  altitude  for  mastery.  The  altitude  usually  wins, 
and  the  trees  are  replaced  by  grass,  giant  heather,  or  some  other 
growth.  Occasionally  the  reverse  is  the  result,  and  then  the  trees 
make  up  for  lost  ground.  They  grow  in  all  directions— upward,  out- 
ward, and  downward— into  one  solid,  tangled,  matted  conglomera- 


38  IVAN  T.  SANDERSON 

don.  A  man  might  force  his  way  through  a  gorse  bush  but  never 
through  this  African  plexus.  It  was  impossible  to  follow  the  river 
along  its  banks. 

During  the  first  few  days  at  this  camp,  I  had  been  employed 
throughout  the  twenty-four  hours  in  and  around  the  camp.  The 
ground  was  uneven;  tornadoes  blew  up;  houses  for  the  staff  took  an 
excessive  time  to  construct  in  the  absence  of  sufficient  straight  bush- 
sticks;  hunters  kept  calling;  I  nursed  a  bad  foot;  and  all  the  time  the 
"office"  work  piled  up.  The  Duke  had  been  sent  back  to  the  base 
camp,  his  legs  covered  with  festering,  two-inch  sores,  called  "tropical 
ulcers."  A  skinner  and  one  of  the  household  staff  had  had  to  go  with 
him  to  minister  to  his  wants,  not  to  mention  half  a  dozen  of  the 
Munchi  carriers— backbone  of  our  little  empire. 

We  were  short-staffed,  overloaded  with  work,  unable  to  obtain 
food,  and  in  the  throes  of  pitching  a  new  camp.  I  therefore  had  little 
time  to  inspect  the  countryside. 

Perhaps  George  was  more  efficient  with  his  half  of  the  work  on 
hand,  or  perhaps  it  was  because  his  department  was  the  frogs  and 
reptiles,  expeditions  to  collect  which  we  were  naturally  unable  to 
organize  at  this  juncture;  at  any  rate,  he  alone  was  able  to  get  away 
during  the  first  few  evenings  and  inspect  the  neighbourhood  with  a 
gun. 

He  came  back  with  ever  more  remarkable  accounts  of  what  he  had 
seen,  including  details  about  some  fruit  bats  that  sounded  like  fish 
stories.  As  soon  as  our  house  was  in  order,  I  put  myself  in  George's 
hands  and  he  conducted  me  to  the  bed  of  the  river  which  I  had  not 
previously  seen. 

It  was  a  peculiar  evening.  The  sky  was  neither  overcast  nor  clear. 
The  sun  shone  somewhere  to  the  west  behind  the  mountains,  but 
the  sky  above  did  not  reflect  any  of  its  glory,  remaining  a  pallid, 
colourless  sheet  above  our  heads.  The  light  was  bad  even  before  true 
dusk  began  to  fall. 

We  entered  the  archway  formed  by  the  trees  over  the  river  where 
it  was  narrow,  and  waded  downstream  for  some  minutes.  The  water 
here  was  waist-deep,  the  boulders  no  larger  than  a  man's  head.  Even- 
tually we  emerged  into  the  open.  The  river  widened  and  huge  rocks 
appeared  out  of  its  ruffled  surface.  Upon  these  George  advised  we 
should  take  up  our  positions. 

No  sooner  had  we  done  so,  than  a  number  of  large  fruit  bats  com- 
menced a  series  of  reconnaissance  flights  from  above  the  trees  on 
either  side.  One  had  the  impression  that  they  were  flying  there  just 
out  of  sight  all  the  time  and  merely  came  to  peep  over  and  see  what 


BATS  39 

we  were  up  to.  Near  at  hand  were  some  singularly  inedible-looking 
trees  that  proved,  however,  to  be  a  source  of  unaccountable  attrac- 
tion to  the  bats.  Into  these  they  slipped  from  the  far  side.  The  first 
that  we  knew  of  their  arrival  was  a  loud  lip-smacking  and  munching 
noise  which  drifted  down  to  us.  As  we  remained  quiet,  others  came 
flying  up  the  fairway  over  the  river  to  join  their  kind. 

We  fired  at  them,  spraying  the  shot  in  their  paths.  One  landed  on 
a  patch  of  dry  stream  bed.  When  retrieved,  it  turned  out  to  be  a  very 
large  specimen  of  the  hammer-headed  bat,  the  species  that  I  had  pre- 
viously encountered  sleeping  in  the  caves  by  the  Mainyu  River.  A 
second  one  was  quite  different.  This  animal  would  probably  have 
been  termed  a  flying  fox,  though  its  fur  was  thin  and  like  polished 
brass,  stiff  and  shining.  A  third  fell  in  the  water  almost  at  my  feet. 

Leaving  my  gun  on  the  rock,  I  stepped  down  to  try  to  catch  it  be- 
fore it  drifted  into  the  main  current  and  was  carried  away.  I  stepped 
on  something  hard  and  firm,  but  before  I  knew  where  I  was,  this 
thing  suddenly  came  to  life  and  lunged  forward.  I  was  flung  sideways 
into  the  main  stream.  Here  the  water,  though  quiet,  was  deep  and 
very  swift  under  the  surface.  Since  there  could  not  have  been  croco- 
diles in  this  river,  all  I  could  think  was  that  I  had  trodden  on  a  tor- 
toise. Swept  forward  by  the  current,  I  was  soon  involved  in  the  rapids 
among  great  boulders.  The  bat  disappeared.  I  had  to  concentrate  on 
half  swimming,  half  floundering  back  to  my  perch. 

Suddenly  George  let  out  a  shout:  "Look  out!"  and  I  looked. 

Then  I  let  out  a  shout  also  and  instantly  bobbed  down  under  the 
water,  because,  coming  straight  at  me  only  a  few  feet  above  the  water 
was  a  black  thing  the  size  of  an  eagle.  I  had  only  a  glimpse  of  its  face, 
yet  that  was  quite  sufficient,  for  its  lower  jaw  hung  open  and  bore  a 
semicircle  of  pointed  white  teeth  set  about  their  own  width  apart 
from  each  other. 

When  I  emerged,  it  was  gone.  George  was  facing  the  other  way 
blazing  off  his  second  barrel.  I  arrived  dripping  on  my  rock  and  we 
looked  at  each  other. 

"Will  it  come  back?"  we  chorused. 

And  just  before  it  became  too  dark  to  see,  it  came  again,  hurtling 
back  down  the  river,  its  teeth  chattering,  the  air  "shss-shssing"  as  it 
was  cleft  by  the  great,  black,  dracula-like  wings.  We  were  both  off 
our  guard,  my  gun  was  unloaded,  and  the  brute  made  straight  for 
George.  He  ducked.  The  animal  soared  over  him  and  was  at  once 
swallowed  up  in  the  night. 

We  scrambled  back  into  the  river  and  waded  home  to  camp,  where 
we  found  a  number  of  local  hunters  waiting  with  their  catches  laid 


4o  IVAN  T.   SANDERSON 

out  for  sale.  They  had  walked  miles  from  their  hunting  grounds  to 
do  business. 

"What  kind  of  a  bat  is  it,"  I  asked,  "that  has"  wings  like  this  (open- 
ing m\  arms)  and  is  all  black?" 

"Olitiau!"  somebody  almost  screamed,  and  there  was  a  hurried 
conference  in  the  Assumbo  tongue. 

"Where  you  see  this  beef?"  one  old  hunter  inquired  amid  dead 
silence. 

"There,"  I  told  the  interpreter,  pointing  to  the  river. 

With  one  accord  the  hunters  grabbed  up  their  guns  and  ran  out  of 
camp,  straight  across  country  towards  the  village,  leaving  their  hard- 
earned  goods  behind  them. 

Next  day  the  old  chief  suddenly  appeared  in  camp  with  the  whole 
village  council.  He  had  walked  miles  from  the  village  capital.  He 
was  concerned.  Shyly  he  asked  whether  we  needed  to  stay  just  there; 
wouldn't  the  hills  beyond  interest  us,  he  wanted  to  know. 

No,  nothing  but  here  exactly  would  suit  us,  we  explained. 

The  chief  was  sad;  the  elders  were  uneasy.  They  went  back  to  the 
village.  We  stayed  at  Camp  III,  but  we  never  saw  the  bat  again  and 
never  received  the  spoils  of  any  more  hunters'  trips. 


A  Simple  Heart 


BY  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 


For  fifty  years  the  good  ladies  of  Pont-L'£veque  had  longed  for 
Madame  Aubin's  servant  Felicite\ 

She  received  four  pounds  a  year.  For  this  she  did  the  cooking  and 
the  general  housework,  the  sewing,  the  washing,  and  the  ironing. 
She  could  bridle  a  horse,  fatten  poultry,  and  churn  butter,  and  she 
was  ever  faithful  to  her  mistress,  who  was  far  from  amiable. 

Madame  Aubin  had  married  a  light-hearted  young  bachelor  with- 
out any  money  who  died  at  the  beginning  of  1809,  leaving  her  with 
two  small  children  and  a  mass  of  debts.  She  then  sold  all  her  prop- 
erty except  the  farms  of  Toucques  and  Geffosses  which  brought  her 
in  five  thousand  francs  a  year  at  most,  and  she  left  her  house  in  Saint- 
Melaine  for  a  less  costly  one,  which  had  belonged  to  her  ancestors 
and  was  situated  behind  the  market. 

This  house  had  a  slate  roof,  and  stood  between  an  archway  and  a 
narrow  lane  which  went  down  to  the  river.  There  was  an  uneven- 
ness  in  the  level  of  the  floors  which  made  you  stumble.  A  narrow 
front  hall  divided  the  kitchen  from  the  sitting  room  in  which  Ma- 
dame Aubin  sat  all  day  long  in  a  wicker  armchair  beside  the  window. 
Eight  mahogany  chairs  stood  in  a  row  against  the  white-painted 
panels.  On  an  old  piano  which  stood  under  a  barometer  were  heaped 
wooden  and  cardboard  boxes  like  a  pyramid.  A  stuffed  armchair  was 
placed  on  either  side  of  the  yellow  marble  Louis  Quinze  chimney- 
piece,  which  had  a  clock  in  the  middle  in  the  shape  of  a  Temple  of 
Vesta.  The  whole  room  was  rather  musty,  because  the  floor  was  below 
the  garden  level. 

"Madame's"  room  was  on  the  first  floor.  It  was  very  large,  with  a 
faded  flowery  wallpaper  and  a  portrait  of  "Monsieur"  dressed  up  as 
a  dandy  of  the  period.  It  let  into  a  smaller  room,  which  had  two  cots 
without  mattresses.  Next  to  it  was  the  drawing  room,  which  was 
always  shut  up  and  filled  with  furniture  covered  with  dustsheets.  A 
corridor  led  to  a  study.  Books  and  odd  papers  filled  the  shelves  of  a 

41 


42  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

large  bookcase,  and  inside  its  three  wings  was  a  wide  writing  table  of 
dark  wood.  The  two  panels  at  the  end  of  the  room  were  covered 
with  pen  and  ink  drawings,  landscapes  in  water  colours,  and  engrav- 
ings by  Audran,  relics  of  better  days  and  departed  glory.  On  the 
second  floor  a  dormer  window,  which  looked  out  over  the  fields,  let 
Light  into  Felicite's  attic. 

She  rose  at  dawn  so  as  not  to  be  late  for  Mass,  and  worked  until 
evening  without  stopping.  Then,  when  dinner  was  over,  the  plates 
and  dishes  put  away,  and  the  door  tightly  fastened,  she  thrust  a  log 
in  the  dying  embers  and  went  to  sleep  in  front  of  the  hearth  with  her 
rosary  in  her  hand.  She  was  the  most  obstinate  bargainer  in  the  town, 
and  as  for  cleanliness,  the  shine  on  her  pots  and  pans  was  the  despair 
of  other  servants.  Thrifty  in  everything,  she  ate  slowly,  gathering  up 
from  the  table  the  crumbs  of  her  loaf,  a  twelve-pound  loaf  specially 
baked  for  her,  which  lasted  three  weeks.  From  year's  end  to  year's 
end  she  wore  a  print  cotton  handkerchief,  fastened  with  a  pin  be- 
hind, a  bonnet  that  concealed  her  hair,  grey  stockings,  a  red  skirt, 
and  a  bibbed  apron,  such  as  hospital  nurses  wear,  over  her  jacket. 
Her  voice  was  harsh  and  her  face  was  thin.  At  twenty-five  she  looked 
forty.  After  fifty  she  looked  any  age.  Silent,  straight,  and  wasting  no 
gestures,  she  was  like  a  wooden  woman  who  went  by  clockwork. 

II 

She  had  had  her  love  story  like  others. 

Her  father,  a  mason,  was  killed  by  falling  off  a  scaffold.  Then 
her  mother  died,  her  sisters  went  off  here  and  there,  and  a  farmer 
took  her  in  while  she  was  a  little  girl,  and  gave  her  charge  of  the 
cows  in  his  fields.  She  was  ragged  and  shivered;  she  laid  flat  on  the 
ground  and  lapped  water  up  from  the  pools;  was  beaten  for  nothing; 
and  finally  turned  out  of  the  house  for  stealing  thirty  sous  which  she 
hadn't  stolen.  She  went  to  another  farm,  and  looked  after  the  hens; 
and  because  her  employers  liked  her,  the  others  were  jealous. 

One  evening  in  August— she  was  then  eighteen— they  took  her  to 
a  feast  at  Colleville.  She  was  dazed  and  bewildered  by  the  stir  of  the 
fiddlers,  the  lamps  in  the  trees,  the  laces  and  gold  crosses  in  the 
dresses,  and  the  crowd  of  folk  all  dancing  together.  She  was  standing 
aside  shyly  when  a  comfortable  looking  young  chap,  who  was  leaning 
on  the  shaft  of  a  cart  and  smoking  his  pipe,  came  up  to  her  and  asked 
her  to  dance.  He  treated  her  to  cider,  coffee,  and  cakes,  and  bought 
her  a  silk  handkerchief,  and  imagining  that  she  understood  what  he 
wanted,  offered  to  see  her  home.  When  they  came  to  a  cornfield,  he 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  43 

threw  her  down  roughly.  She  was  terrified  and  cried  out  for  help. 
And  he  got  out  of  the  way. 

One  evening  after  this,  she  was  on  the  Beaumont  road,  and  a  great 
haycart  was  moving  along  slowly  in  front  of  her.  She  wanted  to  pass 
it,  and  as  she  brushed  by  the  wheel  she  recognised  Theodore.  He 
spoke  to  her  quite  coolly,  telling  her  that  she  must  forgive  him,  be- 
cause it  was  all  the  fault  of  the  drink.  She  could  not  think  what  to  say 
and  longed  to  run  away. 

He  began  at  once  to  talk  about  the  crops  and  the  important  people 
of  the  commune,  saying  that  his  father  had  left  Colleville  for  his 
farm  at  Les  Ecots,  so  now  they  were  neighbours.  "Well,  well!"  she 
said.  He  added  that  his  people  wanted  him  to  settle  down,  but  he 
was  in  no  hurry  and  would  please  himself  in  finding  a  wife.  She 
dropped  her  eyes.  Then  he  asked  her  if  she  thought  of  getting  mar- 
ried. She  answered  with  a  smile  that  it  wasn't  fair  to  make  fun  of  her. 

"But  I'm  not,  I  swear  it!"  And  he  passed  his  left  arm  round  her 
waist.  She  walked  on  supported  by  his  clasp,  and  their  pace  slackened. 
The  wind  was  soft,  the  stars  twinkled,  the  huge  haycart  swung  on  in 
front  of  them,  and  the  four  weary  horses  raised  the  dust  with  their 
dragging  feet.  Then,  without  a  word  from  Theodore  they  turned  to 
the  right.  He  embraced  her  once  more,  and  she  disappeared  in  the 
night. 

Next  week  she  consented  to  meet  him  sometimes. 

They  used  to  meet  in  farmyards,  behind  a  wall,  or  under  some 
solitary  tree.  She  was  not  innocent  as  young  ladies  are— the  ways  of 
animals  had  taught  her  something— but  her  good  sense  and  the  in- 
stinct of  her  honour  saved  her  from  falling.  Her  resistance  inflamed 
Theodore's  passion  so  much  that,  to  satisfy  it,  or,  perhaps  for  more 
innocent  reasons,  he  proposed  marriage  to  her.  She  hesitated  to  be- 
lieve him,  but  he  swore  ardent  oaths  of  faithfulness. 

Presently  he  confessed  that  he  had  something  awkward  to  tell  her. 
A  year  ago  his  parents  had  bought  him  a  substitute  for  the  army,  but 
he  might  be  taken  again  any  day  now,  and  the  idea  of  military  service 
terrified  him.  His  cowardice  seemed  to  Felicite  a  proof  of  his  affec- 
tion, and  it  redoubled  hers.  She  stole  off  at  night  to  meet  him,  and 
when  she  came  to  him  Theodore  worried  her  with  his  fears  and  en- 
treaties. 

At  last  he  told  her  that  he  would  go  himself  to  the  Prefecture  to 
find  out,  and  that  he  would  let  her  know  the  result  between  eleven 
and  twelve  on  the  following  Sunday  night. 

She  hurried  to-  meet  him  at  the  appointed  hour.  She  found  one  of 
his  friends  instead  at  the  meeting  place. 


44  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

He  told  her  that  she  must  not  see  Theodore  any  more.  To  save 
himself  from  conscription,  he  had  married  Madame  Lehoussais,  a 
wealthy  old  woman  of  Toucques. 

There  was  a  wild  outburst  of  grief.  She  flung  herself  down  on  the 
ground,  screamed  and  appealed  to  Almighty  God,  and  lay  moaning 
all  alone  in  die  field  till  daybreak.  Then  she  returned  to  the  farm 
and  told  them  she  was  leaving  at  the  end  of  the  month.  She  received 
her  wages,  tied  up  all  her  little  belongings  in  a  handkerchief,  and 
went  to  Pont-L'fiveque. 

In  front  of  the  inn  there,  she  asked  questions  of  a  woman  in  a 
widow 's  cap,  who,  as  luck  would  have  it,  was  looking  for  a  cook.  The 
girl  had  no  experience,  but  she  seemed  so  willing  and  modest  in  her 
demands  that  Madame  Aubin  ended  by  saying:  "Very  well,  I  will 
engage  you." 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  later  Felicite  took  up  her  quarters  in  this 
woman's  house. 

At  first  she  lived  there  in  terror  at  "the  style  of  the  house"  and 
the  memory  of  "Monsieur"  hovering  over  it  all.  Paul  and  Virginie, 
the  former  seven  and  the  latter  just  four,  seemed  to  her  creatures  of 
a  precious  substance.  She  carried  them  pick-a-back,  and  it  distressed 
her  that  Madame  Aubin  ordered  her  not  to  kiss  them  every  minute. 
However,  she  was  happy  there.  Her  sorrow  thawed  in  the  pleasant- 
ness of  her  surroundings. 

Every  Thursday  some  regular  visitors  came  in  for  a  game  of 
boston,  and  Feliciuf  laid  out  the  cards  and  foot-warmers  beforehand. 
They  arrived  sharply  on  the  stroke  of  eight,  and  left  before  the  clock 
struck  eleven. 

Every  Monday  morning  the  old  scrap  dealer,  who  lived  under  the 
archway,  spread  out  his  iron.  Then  the  town  buzzed  with  voices, 
horses  neighed,  lambs  bleated,  pigs  grunted,  and  carts  rattled  sharply 
on  the  pavement. 

About  noon,  when  the  market  had  got  thoroughly  busy,  you  would 
see  a  tall,  hook-nosed  old  farmer  with  his  cap  on  the  back  of  his  head 
come  to  the  door.  It  was  Robelin,  the  farmer  of  Geffosses.  Soon  after- 
ward came  Liebard,  the  farmer  of  Toucques,  short,  flushed  and 
podgy,  in  a  grey  jacket  and  spurred  gaiters. 

Both  had  chickens  or  cheeses  to  offer  their  landlady.  Felicite  was 
always  up  to  their  tricks,  and  they  would  go  away  filled  with  respect 
for  her. 

At  uncertain  intervals  Madame  Aubin  would  have  a  call  from  one 
of  her  uncles,  the  Marquis  de  Gremanville,  who  had  ruined  himself 
by  hard  living  and  now  lived  on  the  last  scrap  of  his  land  at  Falaise. 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  45 

He  always  came  at  lunchtime  with  a  nasty  poodle  whose  paws  left 
dirty  marks  all  over  the  furniture.  In  spite  of  all  his  efforts  to  seem  a 
gentleman,— he  even  went  so  far  as  to  lift  his  hat  every  time  he  said 
"my  late  father,"— habit  got  the  better  of  him.  He  would  pour  out 
glass  after  glass  and  indulge  in  pothouse  conversation.  Felicite  used 
to  coax  him  out  of  the  house.  "You've  had  enough,  Monsieur  de 
Gremanville!  That's  enough  till  next  time!"  And  she  shut  the  door 
on  him. 

She  would  open  it  with  pleasure  for  Monsieur  Bourais,  a  retired 
lawyer.  His  bald  head,  white  stock,  frilled  shirt  front,  and  loose 
brown  coat,  his  way  of  curving  his  arm  when  he  took  snuff,  his  whole 
personality,  in  fact,  gave  you  that  special  feeling  we  have  whenever 
we  see  an  extraordinary  man. 

As  he  looked  after  "Madame's"  property,  he  would  stay  shut  up 
with  her  for  hours  in  "Monsieur's"  study,  though  all  the  time  he 
was  afraid  of  being  compromised.  He  had  great  respect  for  the  law, 
and  claimed  to  know  Latin. 

To  join  instruction  and  pleasure,  he  gave  the  children  a  geography 
full  of  pictures.  They  showed  scenes  in  all  parts  of  the  world:  canni- 
bals with  feathers  in  their  hair,  a  monkey  carrying  off  a  young  lady, 
Bedouins  in  the  desert,  harpooning  a  whale,  and  so  on.  Paul  would 
explain  these  pictures  to  Felicite,  and  that  was  all  the  education  she 
ever  had.  The  children's  education  was  undertaken  by  Guyot,  a  hum- 
ble creature  employed  in  the  town  hall,  who  was  well  known  for 
his  beautiful  handwriting  and  used  to  sharpen  his  penknife  on  his 
boots. 

When  the  weather  was  fine,  the  household  used  to  start  off  early 
sometimes  for  a  day  at  the  Geffosses  farm. 

Its  courtyard  was  on  a  slope,  with  the  farmhouse  in  the  middle, 
and  the  sea  looked  like  a  far  off  grey  streak  on  the  horizon. 

Felicite  would  take  slices  of  cold  meat  out  of  her  basket,  and  they 
would  have  lunch  in  a  room  beside  the  dairy.  It  was  the  last  relic 
of  a  country  house  which  was  no  more.  The  wallpaper  was  in  tatters 
and  rattled  in  a  draught.  Madame  Aubin  would  sit  with  bowed  head, 
overcome  by  her  memories  of  the  past.  The  children  were  afraid  to 
speak.  "Why  don't  you  go  off  and  play?"  she  would  say,  and  they 
would  hurry  off. 

Paul  climbed  up  into  the  barn,  caught  birds,  played  ducks  and 
drakes  on  the  pond,  or  hammered  with  his  stick  on  the  great  casks 
which  echoed  like  drums.  Virginie  fed  the  rabbits  or  ran  off  to  pick 
cornflowers,  her  scampering  legs  showing  her  little  embroidered 
drawers. 


46  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

One  autumn  evening  they  went  home  by  the  fields.  The  moon 
was  in  its  first  quarter  and  lit  up  part  of  the  sky.  A  mist  floated  like 
a  scarf  over  the  winding  Toucques.  Cattle,  lying  out  in  the  meadow, 
looked  placidly  at  these  four  as  they  passed  by.  In  the  third  meadow 
some  of  them  got  up  and  made  a  half  circle  in  front  of  them.  "There's 
nothing  to  be  afraid  of,"  said  Felicite,  stroking  the  back  of  the  nearest 
animal  while  she  crooned  softly.  He  wheeled  round  and  the  others 
did  the  same.  But  as  they  crossed  the  next  field,  they  heard  a  dreadful 
bellow.  It  was  a  bull,  which  was  hidden  by  the  mist.  Madame  Aubin 
started  to  run.  "No!  no!  don't  go  so  fast!"  They  hurried  on,  all  the 
same,  hearing  a  loud  breathing  behind  them  which  kept  coming 
nearer  and  nearer.  His  hoofs  thudded  on  the  turf  like  hammer- 
strokes.  Now  he  was  galloping!  Felicite  turned  round  and  tore  up 
some  clods  which  she  threw  into  his  eyes  with  both  hands.  The  bull 
lowered  his  muzzle,  shook  his  horns,  and  bellowed  with  fury  terribly. 
Madame  Aubin,  who  had  reached  the  end  of  the  field  with  her  two 
children,  was  looking  distractedly  for  a  place  to  climb  over  the  high 
bank.  Felicite  kept  retreating,  always  facing  the  bull,  showering  clods 
at  his  face  which  blinded  him,  and  crying  out,  "Be  quick!  be  quick!" 

Madame  Aubin  got  down  into  the  ditch,  pushed  Virginie  first  and 
then  Paul,  fell  several  times  trying  to  climb  the  steep  bank,  and 
finally  managed  it  with  a  courageous  effort. 

The  bull  had  driven  Felicite  back  against  a  fence,  his  slaver  was 
blowing  in  her  face,  and  in  an  instant  he  would  have  gored  her.  She 
had  just  time  to  slip  between  the  rails,  and  the  hulking  brute  stopped 
short  in  amazement. 

This  adventure  was  discussed  in  Pont-L'£veque  for  many  a  year. 
Felicite  took  no  special  pride  in  what  she  had  done,  and  it  never 
occurred  to  her  for  an  instant  that  she  had  been  heroic. 

Virginie  was  her  sole  object  of  care,  for,  as  a  result  of  her  fright, 
the  child  had  become  very  nervous,  and  Monsieur  Paupart,  the  doc- 
tor, advised  sea  bathing  at  Trouville.  The  place  had  few  visitors  in 
those  days.  Madame  Aubin  gathered  information,  consulted  Bourais, 
and  prepared  as  if  she  were  going  on  a  long  journey. 

She  sent  off  her  luggage  in  Liebard's  cart  the  day  before.  Next  day 
he  brought  round  two  horses,  one  of  which  had  a  lady's  saddle  with 
a  velvet  back,  while  on  the  back  of  the  other  he  had  made  a  kind  of 
pillion  out  of  a  rolled-up  coat.  Madame  Aubin  rode  on  this  horse 
behind  the  farmer,  while  Felicite  took  care  of  Virginie,  and  Paul 
rode  on  Monsieur  Lechaptois'  ass,  which  had  been  lent  on  condition 
that  great  care  was  taken  of  it. 

The  road  was  so  bad  that  it  took  them  two  hours  to  go  five  miles. 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  47 

The  horses  sank  in  the  mud  up  to  their  pasterns,  and  their  rumps 
floundered  about  as  they  tried  to  get  out.  Sometimes  they  stumbled 
in  the  ruts,  or  else  had  to  jump.  In  some  places  Liebard's  mare 
stopped  dead.  He  waited  patiently  until  she  went  on  again,  talking 
about  the  people  who  owned  property  along  the  road,  and  adding 
moral  reflections  to  their  stories.  And  so,  when  they  were  in  the  mid- 
dle of  Toucques,  as  they  passed  by  some  windows  smothered  with 
nasturtiums,  he  shrugged  his  shoulders  and  said:  "Madame  Lehous- 
sais  lives  there.  Instead  of  taking  a  young  man,  she  .  .  ."  Felicite  did 
not  hear  the  rest.  The  horses  trotted  on  and  the  donkey  galloped. 
They  all  turned  down  a  side  lane.  A  gate  swung  open,  two  boys  ap- 
peared, and  they  all  dismounted  in  front  of  a  manure  heap  just  out- 
side the  farmhouse  door. 

When  Madame  Liebard  saw  her  mistress,  her  generosity  expressed 
her  joy.  She  served  them  a  lunch  with  a  sirloin  of  beef,  tripe,  black 
pudding,  a  fricassee  of  chicken,  sparkling  cider,  fruit  pie  and  bran- 
died  plums,  seasoning  it  with  compliments  to  Madame,  who  seemed 
in  better  health;  to  Mademoiselle,  who  was  now  "splendid";  and  to 
Monsieur  Paul,  who  "was  filling  out  wonderfully."  Nor  did  she  for- 
get their  departed  grandparents,  whom  the  Liebards  had  known  well, 
as  they  had  been  in  the  family's  service  for  several  generations.  The 
farm,  like  them,  had  the  hallmark  of  antiquity.  The  beams  on  the 
ceiling  were  worm-eaten,  the  walls  black  with  smoke,  the  window 
panes  grey  with  dust.  All  sorts  of  useful  objects  were  set  out  on  an 
oak  dresser— jugs,  plates,  pewter  bowls,  wolf-traps,  sheep-shears,  and 
a  huge  syringe  which  made  the  children  laugh.  Every  tree  in  the 
three  courtyards  had  mushrooms  growing  at  the  foot  of  it  and  a  sprig 
of  mistletoe  in  its  branches.  Several  of  them  had  been  thrown  down 
by  the  wind,  and  had  taken  root  again  in  the  middle.  All  were  bend- 
ing under  their  wealth  of  apples.  The  thatched  roofs,  like  brown 
velvet  and  varying  in  thickness,  withstood  the  heaviest  gales,  but  the 
cart  shed  was  tumbling  down.  Madame  Aubin  said  that  she  would 
see  about  it,  and  ordered  the  animals  to  be  saddled  again. 

After  another  half  hour  they  reached  Trouville.  The  little  troop 
dismounted  to  pass  Ecores,  an  overhanging  cliff  with  boats  on  the 
sea  beneath  it,  and  three  minutes  later  they  reached  the  end  of  the 
quay  and  entered  the  courtyard  of  the  Golden  Lamb,  kept  by  worthy 
Madame  David. 

From  the  first  day  of  their  stay,  Virginie  began  to  grow  stronger, 
thanks  to  the  change  of  air  and  the  sea  baths.  These  she  took  in  her 
chemise  for  want  of  a  bathing  suit,  and  Felicite  used  to  dress  her 
afterwards  in  a  coastguard's  cabin  which  was  used  by  the  bathers. 


48  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

In  the  afternoons  they  used  to  take  the  donkey  and  wander  off 
beyond  die  black  rocks  beyond  Hennequeville.  At  first  the  path  went 
up  hill  and  down  dale  through  a  green  sward  like  a  park.  Then  it 
tame  out  on  a  plateau,  where  green  fields  and  arable  land  were  lying 
side  by  side.  Holly  rose  stiffly  out  of  masses  of  briar  at  the  side  of  the 
road,  and  here  and  there  the  branches  of  a  great  withered  tree  zig- 
zagged against  the  blue  sky. 

They  nearly  always  rested  in  a  meadow,  with  Deauville  on  their 
left,  Havre  on  their  right,  and  the  open  sea  in  front  of  them.  It 
gleamed  in  the  sunshine,  smooth  as  a  mirror,  and  it  was  so  still  that 
its  murmur  could  scarcely  be  heard.  Hidden  sparrows  chirped  and 
the  great  sky  arched  over  all.  Madame  Aubin  would  do  needlework, 
Viiginie  plaited  rushes  beside  her,  Felicite  gathered  lavender,  and 
Paul  was  bored  and  wanted  to  go  home. 

On  other  days  they  crossed  the  Toucques  in  a  boat  and  hunted 
for  shells.  When  the  tide  had  gone  out,  sea-urchins,  starfish,  and  jelly 
fish  were  left  stranded,  and  the  children  scurried  after  the  flakes  of 
foam  which  scudded  along  the  wind.  The  sleepy  waves  broke  on  the 
sand  and  rolled  all  along  the  beach,  which  stretched  far  out  of  sight, 
bounded  on  the  land  by  the  dunes  between  it  and  the  Marsh,  a  broad 
meadow  shaped  like  an  arena.  As  they  came  home  that  way,  Trou- 
ville,  on  the  hill  behind,  grew  larger  at  every  step,  and  its  varied 
huddle  of  houses  seemed  to  break  into  bright  disorder. 

When  the  weather  was  too  hot,  they  did  not  leave  their  room.  Bars 
of  light  from  the  dazzling  outside  fell  through  the  lattices.  There  was 
no  sound  in  the  village,  and  not  a  soul  on  the  pavement  outside.  This 
silence  made  the  quiet  profound.  In  the  distance,  men  were  caulking, 
and  you  could  hear  the  tap  of  their  hammers  as  they  plugged  the 
hulls  of  their  boats,  and  a  heavy  breeze  wafted  up  the  smell  of  tar. 

The  chief  amusement  was  watching  the  return  of  the  fishing  boats. 
They  began  to  tack  as  soon  as  they  had  passed  the  buoys.  The  sails 
were  lowered  on  two  of  the  three  masts,  and  they  glided  along 
through  the  ripple  of  the  waves,  with  the  foresails  bellying  out  like 
balloons,  till  they  reached  the  middle  of  the  harbour,  when  they  sud- 
denly dropped  anchor.  Then  the  boats  were  drawn  up  against  the 
quay,  and  the  fishermen  began  to  throw  their  quivering  fish  over 
the  side.  A  line  of  carts  was  waiting,  and  women  in  cotton  bonnets 
darted  out  to  take  the  baskets  and  kiss  their  men. 

One  of  these  women  came  up  to  Felicite  one  day,  and  she  went 
home  a  little  later  in  a  state  of  happiness.  She  had  found  a  sister. 
Nastasie  Barette,  "Leroux's  wife,"  showed  up  behind  her,  with  a 
baby  at  her  breast  and  another  child  in  her  right  hand,  and  on  her 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  49 

left  walked  a  little  cabin  boy  with  arms  akimbo  and  his  cap  on  one 
ear. 

After  a  quarter  of  an  hour  Madame  Aubin  sent  them  away,  but 
they  were  always  to  be  seen  around  the  kitchen,  or  met  whenever 
they  went  for  a  walk.  The  husband  never  appeared. 

Felicite  grew  very  fond  of  them.  She  bought  them  a  blanket,  some 
shirts,  and  a  stove.  Evidently  they  were  doing  quite  well  out  of  her. 
Madame  Aubin  was  annoyed  by  this  weakness,  and  she  did  not  like 
the  nephew's  familiarity  when  he  said  "thee"  and  "thou"  to  Paul. 
And  so,  as  Virginie  was  coughing  and  the  weather  had  broken,  they 
returned  to  Pont-L'£veque. 

Monsieur  Bourais  gave  her  advice  about  a  boys'  school.  Caen  was 
supposed  to  be  the  best,  and  so  Paul  was  sent  there.  He  said  goodbye 
bravely,  glad  enough  to  go  and  live  where  he  would  have  playmates. 

Madame  Aubin  resigned  herself  to  the  boy's  absence.  It  had  to 
be.  Virginie  soon  forgot  all  about  it.  Felicite  missed  his  noisiness 
about  the  house.  But  she  found  an  occupation  to  distract  her.  After 
Christmas  she  took  the  little  girl  to  catechism  every  day. 

Ill 

After  making  a  genuflection  at  the  door  she  walked  up  between 
the  double  row  of  chairs  in  the  lofty  nave,  opened  Madame  Aubin's 
pew,  sat  down,  and  began  to  look  around.  The  choir  stalls  were  filled 
with  boys  on  the  right  and  girls  at  the  left,  and  the  cure  stood  at  the 
lectern.  From  a  stained  glass  window  in  the  apse  the  Holy  Ghost 
looked  down  at  the  Blessed  Virgin.  In  another  window  she  was  kneel- 
ing before  the  Infant  Jesus,  and  behind  the  shrine  on  the  altar  a 
carved  wooden  group  showed  St.  Michael  overcoming  the  dragon. 

The  priest  began  with  an  outline  of  sacred  history.  The  Garden 
of  Eden,  the  Flood,  the  Tower  of  Babel,  cities  in  flames,  dying  na- 
tions, idols  overthrown,  passed  in  a  vision  before  her  eyes,  and  the 
bewildering  dream  left  her  clinging  reverently  to  the  Most  High  in 
fear  of  His  wrath.  Then  she  wept  at  the  story  of  the  Passion.  Why 
had  they  crucified  Him,  He  who  loved  children,  fed  the  multitudes, 
healed  the  blind,  and  had  chosen,  in  His  meekness,  to  be  born  among 
the  poor  on  the  dungheap  of  a  stable?  The  sowings,  the  harvests,  the 
wine-presses,  all  the  familiar  things  of  which  the  Gospels  speak,  were 
an  ordinary  part  of  her  life.  God's  passing  had  made  them  holy,  and 
she  loved  the  lambs  more  tenderly  for  her  love  of  the  Lamb,  and 
the  doves  because  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

She  could  hardly  imagine  Him  in  person,  for  not  only  was  He  a 


50  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

bird,  but  He  was  a  flame  as  well,  and  even  a  breath  some  times.  Per- 
haps it  is  His  Light,  she  would  think,  which  flits  over  the  edge  of  the 
marshes  at  night,  His  Breath  which  makes  the  clouds  run  across  the 
sky.  His  Voice  which  gives  clear  music  to  the  bells;  and  she  would 
sit  lost  in  adoration,  enjoying  the  coolness  and  stillness  of  the  church. 

Of  dogma  she  understood  nothing,  and  made  no  effort  to  under- 
stand it.  The  cure  discoursed,  the  children  said  their  lessons,  and 
finally  she  went  to  sleep,  waking  up  startled  by  their  wooden  shoes 
clattering  on  the  flagstones  as  they  went  out  of  the  church. 

So  Felicite,  whose  religious  education  had  been  neglected  in  her 
youth,  learned  her  catechism  by  being  obliged  to  listen  to  it.  From 
that  day  she  imitated  Virginie  in  all  her  religious  practices,  fasting 
when  she  fasted  and  going  to  confession  when  she  did.  On  the  feast 
of  Corpus  Christi  they  made  a  repository  together. 

Virginie's  first  communion  lay  anxiously  before  her.  Felicite  wor- 
ried over  her  shoes,  her  rosary,  her  book,  and  her  gloves.  And  how 
she  trembled  as  she  helped  the  little  girl's  mother  to  dress  her  up 
for  the  occasion! 

All  through  Mass  she  was  feverish  with  anxiety.  Monsieur  Bourais 
hid  one  side  of  the  choir  from  her,  but  straight  in  front  was  the  flock 
of  maidens,  with  their  white  crowns  above  their  drooping  veils,  mak- 
ing a  field  of  snow;  and  she  knew  her  dear  little  one  at  a  distance  by 
her  dainty  neck  and  reverent  air.  The  bell  tinkled.  All  heads  bowed, 
and  there  was  silence.  The  organ  pealed,  and  choir  and  congregation 
joined  in  the  Agnus  Dei.  Then  the  procession  of  the  boys  began,  and 
the  girls  rose  after  them.  Step  by  step,  with  their  hands  clasped  in 
prayer,  they  drew  near  the  lighted  altar,  knelt  on  the  first  step,  each 
received  the  Blessed  Sacrament  in  turn,  and  they  came  back  to  their 
seats  in  the  same  order.  When  Virginie's  turn  came,  Felicite  leaned 
forward  to  see  her;  and  with  the  imagination  of  tender  affection  it 
seemed  to  her  as  if  she  were  that  child.  Virginie's  face  became  hers. 
She  was  wearing  the  child's  crown,  the  little  girl's  heart  beat  in  her 
breast.  When  it  was  time  to  open  her  mouth,  she  closed  her  eyes  and 
nearly  fainted.  Next  morning  she  went  to  the  sacristy  to  receive 
Communion  from  Monsieur  the  Cure.  She  received  it  with  devotion, 
but  did  not  feel  the  same  delight. 

Madame  Aubin  was  anxious  to  give  her  daughter  the  best  educa- 
tion possible,  and  as  Guyot  could  not  teach  her  music  or  English, 
decided  to  put  her  in  the  Ursuline  Convent  at  Honfleur  as  a  boarder. 
The  child  made  no  complaint.  Felicite  sighed  and  thought  that  Ma- 
dame was  hard-hearted.  Then  she  considered  that  no  doubt  her  mis- 
tress was  right.  These  affairs  were  beyond  her. 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  51 

So  one  day  an  old  cart  drew  up  at  their  door,  and  a  nun  stepped 
out  of  it  who  was  come  to  fetch  the  young  lady.  Felicite  set  the  lug- 
gage on  top  of  the  cart,  gave  special  orders  to  the  driver,  and  placed 
six  pots  of  jam,  a  dozen  pears,  and  a  bunch  of  violets  under  the 
child's  seat. 

At  the  last  moment  Virginie  sobbed  bitterly,  and  threw  her  arms 
round  the  neck  of  her  mother,  who  kissed  her  on  the  forehead  and 
kept  saying:  "Come  now,  be  brave!  be  really  brave!"  The  steps  were 
raised  and  the  cart  drove  off. 

Then  Madame  Aubin's  strength  broke  down.  In  the  evening  all 
her  friends,  the  Lormeaus,  Madame  Lechaptois,  the  Rochefeuille 
girls,  Monsieur  de  Houppeville,  and  Bourais,  came  in  to  comfort  her. 

At  first  life  was  very  painful  to  her  without  her  daughter,  but  she 
heard  from  her  three  times  a  week,  wrote  to  her  on  the  other  days, 
walked  in  her  garden,  and  so  passed  the  weary  time  away.v 

Felicite  went  into  Virginie's  room  in  the  morning  as  usual  and 
stared  at  the  walls.  It  was  dull  for  her  not  to  have  the  child's  hair  to 
comb,  her  boots  to  lace,  and  her  body  to  tuck  into  bed,  not  to  see 
her  dear  face  all  the  time  and  to  hold  her  hand  when  they  went  out 
together.  To  fill  up  her  idleness  she  tried  to  make  lace,  but  her  fin- 
gers were  too  clumsy  and  she  kept  breaking  the  threads.  She  could 
not  settle  down  to  anything,  lost  sleep,  and,  as  she  said,  was  "ruined." 

To  amuse  herself,  she  asked  permission  for  her  nephew  Victor  to 
visit  her. 

He  would  come  on  Sundays  after  Mass  with  rosy  cheeks  and  bare 
chest,  and  country  air  all  about  him  from  his  walk.  She  set  the  table 
for  him  promptly  and  they  lunched  together  face  to  face.  She  ate  as 
little  as  possible  herself  to  save  money,  but  she  would  stuff  him  till 
he  fell  asleep.  When  the  bell  first  sounded  for  Vespers,  she  would 
wake  him  up,  brush  his  trousers,  fasten  his  tie,  and  set  off  for  church 
leaning  on  his  arm  with  a  mother's  pride. 

His  parents  always  told  Victor  to  get  something  out  of  her,  a  damp 
packet  of  sugar,  perhaps,  or  a  cake  of  soap,  some  brandy,  or  even 
money  now  and  then.  He  brought  her  his  clothes  to  mend,  and  she 
gladly  undertook  this  task,  grateful  for  anything  that  would  bring 
him  back  to  her. 

In  August  his  father  took  him  away  for  a  sea  trip  along  the  coast. 
It  was  holiday  time  for  the  children,  and  their  arrival  consoled  her. 
But  Paul  was  getting  selfish  and  Virginie  too  old  to  say  "thee"  and 
"thou"  to  her  any  longer.  This  made  things  stiff  and  created  a  barrier 
between  them. 

Victor  went  to  Morlaix,  Dunkirk,  and  Brighton  in  succession,  and 


p  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

brought  Felicite  a  present  after  each  trip.  First  he  brought  her  a  box 
made  out  of  shells,  then  a  coffee  cup,  and  finally  a  big  gingerbread 
man.  He  was  growing  handsome  with  his  fine  figure,  his  hint  of  a 
moustache,  his  honest  clear  eyes,  and  a  little  leather  cap  clinging  to 
the  back  of  his  head  like  a  pilot's.  He  amused  her  with  stories 
adorned  with  nautical  terms. 

It  was  on  a  Monday,  the  14th  of  July,  1819  (she  never  forgot  that 
date),  that  he  told  her  how  he  had  signed  on  for  a  long  voyage,  and 
two  nights  later  was  to  go  on  board  the  boat  for  Honfleur,  where  he 
was  to  join  his  schooner  which  was  weighing  anchor  shortly  from 
Havre.  He  might  be  gone  two  years. 

The  thought  of  this  long  absence  plunged  Felicite  in  distress.  She 
must  say  goodbye  once  more,  and  so,  on  Wednesday  evening  after 
Madame  had  finished  her  dinner,  she  put  on  her  wooden  shoes  and 
soon  covered  the  twelve  miles  between  Pont-L'£veque  and  Honfleur. 

When  she  came  to  the  Calvary,  she  turned  to  the  right  instead  of 
the  left,  went  astray  in  the  timber  yard,  and  had  to  retrace  her  steps. 
Some  people  to  whom  she  spoke  told  her  to  hurry.  She  went  all 
round  the  harbour,  which  was  full  of  shipping,  and  kept  tripping 
over  hawsers.  Then  the  ground  fell  away,  lights  flashed  across  each 
other,  and  she  thought  she  was  losing  her  wits,  for  she  saw  horses 
way  up  in  the  sky.  Others  were  neighing  beside  the  quay  afraid  of 
the  sea.  They  were  hoisted  up  with  tackle  and  lowered  in  a  boat,  in 
which  passengers  were  bumping  into  each  other  amid  cider  casks, 
hampers  of  cheese,  and  sacks  of  corn.  Hens  were  cackling,  the  cap- 
tain swore,  and  a  cabin  boy  was  leaning  over  the  bow,  indifferent  to 
it  all.  Felicite,  who  had  not  recognised  him,  cried  "Victor!"  He 
raised  his  head.  Just  as  she  was  rushing  forward,  the  gangway  was 
pulled  back. 

The  Honfleur  packet,  with  women  singing  as  they  hauled,  went 
out  of  the  harbour,  its  ribs  creaking  and  heavy  waves  slapping  against 
the  bows.  The  sails  swung  round,  and  no  one  could  be  seen  now  on 
board.  The  boat  was  a  black  speck  on  the  sea  which  shimmered  with 
silver  in  the  moonlight.  It  faded  away  little  by  little,  dipped,  and 
was  gone. 

As  Felicite  passed  the  Calvary,  she  had  an  impulse  to  commend 
to  God  what  she  cherished  most,  and  she  stood  praying  for  a  long 
time  with  her  face  bathed  in  tears  and  her  eyes  staring  at  the  clouds. 
The  town  was  asleep,  coastguards  were  walking  to  and  fro,  and  water 
poured  incessantly  through  the  holes  in  the  sluice  with  the  noise  of 
a  torrent.  The  clocks  struck  two. 

The  convent  parlour  would  not  be  open  before  dawn.  If  Felicite 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  53 

were  late,  Madame  would  be  sure  to  be  annoyed.  In  spite  of  her  wish 
to  kiss  the  other  child,  she  went  home.  The  maids  at  the  inn  were 
just  waking  up  when  she  came  home  to  Pont-L'£veque. 

So  the  poor  little  chap  was  going  to  be  tossed  for  months  and 
months  at  sea!  His  previous  voyages  had  not  alarmed  her.  You  were 
sure  to  come  back  safely  from  England  or  Brittany,  but  America,  the 
Colonies,  the  Islands  were  lost  in  a  faint  cloudy  region  on  the  other 
side  of  the  world. 

From  that  day  Felicite  thought  only  of  her  nephew.  On  sunny  days 
she  was  troubled  by  thinking  of  his  thirst;  when  it  was  stormy,  she 
was  afraid  of  the  lightning  lest  it  should  strike  him.  As  she  listened 
to  the  wind  moaning  in  the  chimney  or  stripping  off  the  slates,  she 
saw  him  bruised  by  that  same  tempest  at  the  top  of  a  shattered  mast, 
with  his  body  thrown  back  under  a  sheet  of  foam;  or  (remembering 
the  illustrated  geography)  he  was  being  devoured  by  savages,  cap- 
tured by  monkeys  in  the  forest,  or  dying  on  some  desert  shore.  She 
never  spoke  of  her  anxiety. 

Madame  Aubin  had  anxieties  of  her  own  about  her  daughter.  The 
good  nuns  considered  her  an  affectionate  but  delicate  child.  The 
least  emotion  unnerved  her.  She  had  to  give  up  the  piano. 

Her  mother  insisted  on  hearing  regularly  from  the  Convent.  One 
morning,  when  the  letter-carrier  did  not  come,  she  lost  patience,  and 
walked  up  and  down  the  parlour  from  her  chair  to  the  window.  It 
was  astonishing.  No  news  for  four  days! 

To  console  Madame  Aubin  by  her  own  example,  Felicite  said:  "It 
is  six  months  since  I  had  a  letter!" 

"From  whom?" 

"Why,  from  my  nephew,"  answered  the  servant  gently. 

"Oh!  your  nephew!"  And  Madame  Aubin  resumed  her  walk  and 
shrugged  her  shoulders,  as  much  as  to  say:  "I  wasn't  thinking  about 
him,  and  besides  what  does  a  mere  scamp  of  a  cabin  boy  matter? 
Now  my  daughter  .  .  .  why,  think  of  it!" 

Felicite,  though  she  had  been  brought  up  roughly  enough,  was 
indignant  with  Madame,  and  then  forgot  all  about  it.  It  seemed 
natural  enough  to  her  to  lose  your  head  over  the  little  girl.  For  her, 
the  two  children  were  equally  important.  They  were  united  in  her 
heart  by  the  same  bond,  and  their  destinies  must  be  the  same. 

The  chemist  informed  her  that  Victor's  ship  had  reached  Havana. 
He  had  read  the  news  in  a  paper. 

Cigars  made  her  picture  Havana  as  a  place  where  no  one  did  any- 
thing but  smoke,  and  she  could  see  Victor  moving  about  among 
negroes  in  a  cloud  of  tobacco.  Could  a  man,  she  wondered,  "in  case 


54  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

he  had  to,"  come  home  by  land?  How  far  was  it  from  Pont-L'£veque? 
She  asked  Monsieur  Bourais  questions  to  find  out. 

He  took  down  his  atlas  and  began  to  explain  the  longitudes. 
Felicite's  confusion  aroused  a  broad  pedantic  smile.  At  last  he 
marked  with  his  pencil  a  tiny  black  spot  in  an  oval  place  on  the  map, 
and  said,  "Here  it  is."  She  stooped  over  the  map.  The  network  of 
coloured  lines  tired  her  eyes  without  conveying  anything  to  her. 
When  Baurais  asked  her  to  tell  him  what  was  the  matter,  she  begged 
him  to  show  her  the  house  in  which  Victor  lived.  Bourais  threw  up 
his  hands,  sneezed,  and  went  into  peals  of  laughter.  Her  simplicity 
delighted  him.  And  Felicite  could  not  understand  why!  How  could 
she,  when  she  expected,  no  doubt,  actually  to  see  a  picture  of  her 
nephew,  her  mind  was  so  simple! 

A  fortnight  later  Liebard  came  into  the  kitchen  at  market  time 
as  usual,  and  gave  her  a  letter  from  her  brother-in-law.  As  neither 
could  read  she  carried  it  to  her  mistress. 

Madame  Aubin,  who  was  counting  the  stitches  in  her  knitting,  set 
down  her  work  and  broke  the  seal  of  the  letter.  She  started  and  mur- 
mured with  a  meaning  look:  "It's  bad  news  .  •  ♦  that  they  have  to 
tell  you.  .  .  .  Your  nephew  .  .  ." 

He  was  dead.  The  letter  said  no  more. 

Felicite  fell  on  a  chair  with  her  head  leaning  against  the  wall.  She 
closed  her  eyelids,  which  suddenly  went  pink.  Then,  with  bent  fore- 
head, hands  hanging  down,  and  rigid  eyes,  she  kept  saying  at  inter- 
vals: "Poor  little  fellow!  Poor  little  fellow!" 

Liebard  watched  her  and  sighed.  Madame  Aubin  trembled  a  little. 
She  suggested  that  Felicite  ought  to  go  and  see  her  sister  at  Trouville. 
Felicite  replied  with  a  gesture  that  it  was  no  use. 

There  was  a  silence.  The  worthy  Liebard  thought  it  was  time  to 
withdraw. 

Then  Felicite  said: 

"They  don't  care,  they  don't!" 

Her  head  drooped  again,  and  now  and  then  she  picked  up  me- 
chanically the  long  needles  on  her  work  table. 

Some  women  went  through  the  yard  with  a  barrow  of  dripping 
linen. 

As  she  saw  them  through  the  window,  she^  remembered  her  wash- 
ing. She  had  put  it  to  soak  yesterday.  To-day  she  must  wring  it  out. 
She  left  the  room. 

Her  plank  and  tub  were  at  the  edge  of  the  Toucques.  She  threw 
a  heap  of  linen  on  the  bank,  rolled  up  her  sleeves,  and,  taking  her 
wooden  beater,  she  dealt  such  blows  that  they  could  be  heard  in  the 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  55 

neighbouring  gardens.  The  fields  were  empty.  The  river  stirred 
faintly  in  the  wind.  Below,  long  grasses  waved  like  the  hair  of  corpses 
floating  on  the  water.  She  mastered  her  grief  and  was  very  brave 
until  the  evening,  but  once  in  her  room  she  gave  way  to  it  entirely, 
lying  stretched  out  on  the  mattress  with  her  face  buried  in  the  pillow 
and  her  hands  clenched  against  her  temples. 

Much  later  she  heard  the  circumstances  of  Victor's  end  from  the 
captain  himself.  They  had  bled  him  too  much  for  yellow  fever  at 
the  hospital.  Four  doctors  were  holding  him  at  once.  He  had  died 
instantly  and  the  chief  had  said:  "Bah!  that's  another  one  gone!" 

His  parents  had  always  been  cruel  to  him.  She  preferred  not  to 
see  them  again,  and  they  made  no  advances,  either  because  they 
had  forgotten  all  about  her,  or  because  they  were  hardened  in  their 
desperate  poverty. 

Virginie  began  to  grow  weaker. 

Constriction  in  the  chest,  coughing,  chronic  fever,  and  the  marble 
veins  on  her  cheek  bones  betrayed  some  deep-seated  ailment.  Mon- 
sieur Poupart  advised  a  stay  in  Provence.  Madame  Aubin  decided 
on  it  and  would  have  brought  home  her  daughter  at  once  had  it 
not  been  for  the  climate  of  Pont-L'£veque. 

She  contracted  with  a  job-master  who  drove  her  to  the  Convent 
every  Tuesday.  There  is  a  terrace  in  the  garden  which  overlooks  the 
Seine.  Virginie  walked  there  over  the  fallen  vine  leaves  on  her 
mother's  arm.  A  beam  of  sunlight  through  the  clouds  sometimes 
made  her  blink,  as  she  gazed  at  the  sails  in  the  distance  and  the  wide 
horizon  from  the  Chateau  de  Tancarville  to  the  lighthouses  of 
Havre.  Afterwards  they  would  rest  in  the  harbour.  Her  mother  had 
procured  a  small  cask  of  excellent  Malaga;  and  Virginie,  laughing  at 
the  idea  of  getting  tipsy,  used  to  drink  a  thimbleful  of  it,  but  no 
more. 

You  could  see  her  strength  coming  back.  The  autumn  glided  by 
softly.  Felicite  reassured  Madame  Aubin,  but  one  evening,  when  she 
had  been  out  on  an  errand  in  the  neighbourhood,  she  found  Mon- 
sieur Poupart's  gig  at  the  door.  He  was  in  the  hall  and  Madame 
Aubin  was  tying  her  bonnet. 

"Give  me  my  foot-warmer,  and  my  purse  and  gloves!  Hurry,  be 
quick  about  it!" 

Virginie  had  inflammation  of  the  lungs.  It  might  be  hopeless. 

"Not  yet!"  said  the  doctor,  and  they  both  got  into  the  carriage  in 
a  whirl  of  snowflakes.  Night  was  coming  on,  and  it  was  very  cold. 

Felicite  rushed  into  the  church  to  light  a  candle.  Then  she  ran 
after  the  gig,  caught  up  with  it  in  an  hour,  jumped  in  lightly  behind, 


56  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

and  hung  on  to  the  fringes.  Suddenly  she  thought:  "The  courtyard 
has  not  been  shut  up!  Suppose  thieves  break  in!"  And  she  jumped 
down. 

At  dawn  next  day  she  was  at  the  doctor's  door.  He  had  come  in 
and  started  off  for  the  country  again.  Then  she  waited  in  the  inn, 
thinking  that  a  letter  would  come  by  somebody  or  other.  Finally, 
when  it  was  growing  dark,  she  took  the  Lisieux  coach. 

The  Convent  was  at  the  end  of  a  steep  lane.  When  she  was  half 
way  up,  she  heard  strange  sounds,  a  passing-bell  was  tolling.  "It's  for 
someone  else,"  thought  Felicite,  and  she  struck  the  knocker  violently. 

After  some  minutes,  there  was  a  sound  of  shuffling  slippers,  the 
door  opened  partly,  and  a  nun  appeared. 

The  good  sister,  with  an  air  of  compunction,  said  that  "she  had 
just  passed  away."  At  that  moment  the  bell  of  St.  Leonard's  tolled 
harder  than  ever. 

Felicite  went  up  to  the  second  floor.  From  the  doorway  she  saw 
Virginie  stretched  out  on  her  back  with  clasped  hands,  open  mouth, 
and  her  head  thrown  back  under  a  black  crucifix  which  leaned  to- 
wards her,  between  curtains  hanging  stiffly,  less  pale  than  her  face. 

Madame  Aubin,  at  the  foot  of  the  bed  which  she  was  clasping  with 
her  arms,  was  choking  with  agonised  sobs.  The  Mother  Superior  was 
standing  on  the  right.  Three  candlesticks  on  the  chest  of  drawers 
made  red  spots,  and  a  white  fog  came  seeping  in  through  the  win- 
dows. Some  nuns  came  and  led  Madame  Aubin  away. 

For  two  nights  Felicite  never  left  the  dead  child.  She  kept  repeat- 
ing the  same  prayers,  sprinkled  holy  water  on  the  sheets,  came  and 
sat  down  again,  and  watched  her.  At  the  end  of  her  first  vigil,  she 
noticed  that  the  face  had  become  yellow,  the  lips  had  turned  blue, 
the  nose  was  sharper,  and  the  eyes  had  sunk  in.  She  kissed  them  sev- 
eral times  and  would  not  have  been  very  much  surprised  if  Virginie 
had  opened  them  again.  To  minds  like  hers  the  supernatural  is  per- 
fectly simple.  She  made  the  girl's  toilet,  wrapped  her  in  her  shroud, 
lifted  her  into  the  coffin,  laid  a  wreath  on  her  head,  and  spread  out 
her  hair.  It  was  fair  and  surprisingly  long  for  her  age.  Felicite  cut  off 
a  big  lock  of  it,  and  slipped  half  of  it  into  her  bosom,  determined 
never  to  part  with  it. 

The  body  was  brought  back  to  Pont-L'£veque,  in  accordance  with 
the  wish  of  Madame  Aubin,  who  followed  the  hearse  in  a  closed  car- 
riage. 

It  took  another  three-quarters  of  an  hour  after  the  Mass  to  reach 
the  cemetery.  Paul  walked  in  front,  sobbing.  Monsieur  Bourais  fol- 
lowed, and  then  came  the  principal  citizens  of  Pont-L'£veque,  the 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  57 

women  in  black  mantles,  and  Felicite.  She  thought  of  her  nephew, 
and  since  she  had  been  unable  to  pay  him  these  honours,  her  grief 
was  doubled,  as  if  the  one  were  being  buried  with  the  other. 

Madame  Aubin's  despair  was  unbounded.  At  first  she  rebelled 
against  God,  deeming  it  unjust  for  Him  to  have  taken  her  daughter 
from  her,  who  had  never  done  any  harm  and  whose  conscience  was 
clear!  Ah!  no!  she  ought  to  have  taken  Virginie  to  the  South!  Other 
doctors  would  have  saved  her.  Now  she  accused  herself,  longed  to 
join  her  child,  and  cried  out  in  distress  in  the  middle  of  her  dreams. 
One  dream  especially  haunted  her.  Her  husband,  dressed  as  a  sailor, 
came  back  from  a  long  voyage,  and  shed  tears  as  he  told  her  that  he 
was  ordered  to  carry  Virginie  away.  Then  they  consulted  how  to 
hide  her  somewhere. 

Once  she  came  in  from  the  garden  quite  upset.  Just  now— and  she 
pointed  out  the  spot— father  and  daughter  had  appeared  to  her,  stand- 
ing side  by  side.  They  did  nothing,  but  looked  at  her. 

For  several  months  after  this  she  stayed  passively  in  her  room. 
Felicite  lectured  her  gently.  She  must  live  for  her  son,  and  for  the 
other,  in  remembrance  of  "her." 

"Her?"  answered  Madame  Aubin,  as  though  just  rousing  from 
slumber.  "Ah,  yes!  .  .  .  yes!  .  .  .  you  do  not  forget  her!"  This  was  an 
allusion  to  the  cemetery,  to  which  she  was  strictly  forbidden  to  go. 

Felicite  went  there  every  day. 

On  the  stroke  of  four  she  would  skirt  the  houses,  climb  the  hill, 
open  the  gate,  and  come  to  Virginie's  grave.  It  was  a  little  pillar  of 
pink  marble  with  a  stone  underneath  and  a  garden  plot  enclosed 
by  chains.  The  beds  were  hidden  under  a  carpet  of  flowers.  She 
watered  their  leaves,  freshened  up  the  gravel,  and  knelt  down  to 
soften  the  earth  better.  Whenever  Madame  Aubin  was  able  to  come 
there,  she  felt  relieved  and  somehow  consoled. 

The  years  slipped  by,  one  much  like  another,  marked  only  by  the 
great  feast  days  as  they  recurred— Easter,  the  Assumption,  All  Saints' 
Day.  Household  happenings  marked  dates  which  were  mentioned 
afterwards.  In  1825,  for  example,  two  glaziers  whitewashed  the  hall. 
In  1827,  a  piece  of  the  roof  fell  into  the  courtyard  and  nearly  killed 
a  man.  In  the  summer  of  1828,  it  was  Madame's  turn  to  offer  the 
blessed  bread.  About  this  time,  Bourais  went  away  mysteriously.  One 
by  one  the  old  acquaintances  died:  Guyot,  Liebard,  Madame  Lechap- 
tois,  Robelin,  and  Uncle  de  Gremanville,  who  had  been  paralysed 
for  a  long  time. 

One  night  the  driver  of  the  mail  coach  announced  in  Pont- 
L'fiveque  the  Revolution  of  July.  A  new  sub-Prefect  was  appointed 


58  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

a  few  days  later.  It  was  Baron  de  Larsonniere,  who  had  been  a  Consul 
in  America,  and  brought  with  him,  besides  his  wife,  his  sister-in-law 
and  three  grown-up  young  ladies.  They  were  to  be  seen  on  the  lawn 
in  loose  drapery,  and  they  had  a  negro  and  a  parrot.  They  called  on 
Madame  Aubin,  and  she  did  not  fail  to  return  the  call.  As  soon  as 
they  were  seen  in  the  distance,  Felicite  ran  and  told  her  mistress.  But 
only  one  thing  could  really  move  her— letters  from  her  son. 

He  lived  in  taverns  and  could  follow  no  career.  She  used  to  pay 
his  debts  and  he  made  new  ones.  Madame  Aubin's  sighs,  as  she  sat 
knitting  by  the  window,  reached  Felicite  spinning  in  the  kitchen. 

They  used  to  walk  together  along  the  espaliered  wall,  always  talk- 
ing of  Virginie  and  wondering  if  this  or  that  would  have  pleased 
her,  or  what  she  would  have  said  on  this  or  that  occasion. 

All  her  little  belongings  filled  a  cupboard  in  the  two-bedded  room. 
Madame  Aubin  looked  at  them  as  seldom  as  possible.  One  summer 
day  she  made  up  her  mind  to  do  so,  and  some  moths  flew  out  of  the 
cupboard. 

Virginie's  dresses  were  all  in  a  row  underneath  a  shelf  on  which 
there  were  three  dolls,  some  hoops,  some  little  pots  and  pans,  and  the 
basin  which  she  had  used.  They  took  out  her  petticoats  as  well,  and 
her  stockings  and  handkerchiefs,  and  spread  them  out  on  the  two 
beds  before  folding  them  up  again.  The  sunlight  shone  on  these 
poor  things,  bringing  out  their  stains  and  the  creases  made  by  the 
little  girl's  movements.  The  sky  was  warm  and  blue,  a  blackbird 
warbled,  and  life  seemed  bathed  in  a  deep  sweet  peace.  They  came 
across  a  little  plush  hat  with  thick,  chestnut-coloured  fur,  but  the 
moths  had  eaten  it.  Felicite  begged  for  it.  They  gazed  at  each  other 
and  their  eyes  filled  with  tears.  At  last  the  mistress  opened  her  arms, 
the  servant  threw  herself  into  them,  and  they  clasped  each  other  in 
a  hearty  embrace,  staunching  their  grief  with  a  kiss  which  made  them 
equal. 

It  was  the  first  time  in  their  lives,  for  Madame  Aubin  was  not  ex- 
pansive by  nature. 

Felicite  was  as  grateful  as  though  she  had  received  a  great  favour, 
and  from  that  day  cherished  her  mistress  with  an  animal's  devotion 
and  religious  worship. 

The  kindness  of  her  heart  opened  out. 

When  she  heard  the  drums  of  a  regiment  marching  in  the  street, 
she  would  stand  at  the  door  with  a  pitcher  of  cider  and  offer  it  to 
the  soldiers  to  drink.  She  took  care  of  cholera  patients.  She  protected 
the  Polish  refugees,  and  one  of  these  proposed  to  marry  her.  They 
quarrelled,  nevertheless;  for  as  she  returned  from  the  Angelus  one 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  59 

morning,  she  found  he  had  got  into  her  kitchen  and  made  with 
vinegar  a  salad  for  himself  which  he  was  eating  quietly. 

After  the  Poles  came  Pere  Colmiche,  an  ancient  man  who  was 
reputed  to  have  committed  atrocities  in  '93.  He  lived  beside  the 
river  in  a  ruined  pig-sty.  The  little  boys  used  to  stare  at  him  through 
the  cracks  in  his  wall,  and  to  throw  pebbles  at  him  which  fell  on  the 
mattress  upon  which  he  lay  constantly  shaken  with  catarrh.  His  hair 
was  very  long,  his  eyes  inflamed,  and  he  had  a  tumor  on  his  arm 
which  was  bigger  than  his  head.  Felicite  found  him  some  linen  and 
tried  to  clean  up  his  miserable  den.  She  longed  to  establish  him  in 
the  bakehouse  without  letting  him  annoy  Madame.  When  the  tumor 
burst,  she  used  to  dress  it  every  day.  Sometimes  she  would  bring  him 
cake  and  put  him  out  in  the  sunlight  on  a  truss  of  straw.  The  poor 
old  man,  slobbering  and  trembling,  would  thank  her  in  a  faint  voice, 
fearful  of  losing  her,  and  would  stretch  out  his  hand  as  he  saw  her 
going  away.  He  died;  and  she  had  a  Mass  said  for  the  repose  of  his 
soul. 

That  very  day  a  great  happiness  befell  her.  Just  at  dinner  time 
Madame  de  Larsonniere's  negro  appeared,  carrying  the  parrot  in  its 
cage,  with  perch,  chain,  and  padlock.  There  was  a  note  from  the 
Baroness  informing  Madame  Aubin  that  her  husband  had  been  pro- 
moted to  a  Prefecture,  and  they  were  going  away  that  evening.  She 
begged  her  to  accept  the  bird  as  a  memento  and  a  token  of  her 
esteem. 

For  a  long  time  the  parrot  had  absorbed  Felicite's  attention,  be- 
cause he  came  from  America.  The  name  reminded  her  of  Victor,  so 
much  so  that  she  had  asked  the  negro  about  it.  Once  she  had  gone 
so  far  as  to  say:  "How  happy  Madame  would  be  to  have  him!" 

The  negro  had  repeated  this  remark  to  his  mistress.  Since  she 
could  not  take  the  bird  away  with  her,  this  was  how  she  got  rid  of 
him. 


IV 

His  name  was  Loulou.  His  body  was  green,  the  tips  of  his  wings 
were  rosy  pink,  his  brow  was  blue,  and  his  throat  was  golden. 

But  he  had  a  tiresome  habit  of  biting  his  perch,  tearing  out  his 
feathers,  flinging  his  dirt  about,  and  spattering  the  water  from 
his  bath.  He  annoyed  Madame  Aubin,  and  she  presented  him  to 
Felicite. 

She  undertook  to  train  him.  Soon  he  could  repeat:  "Good  boy! 
Your  servant,  sir!  How  dy'ye  do,  Marie?"  He  was  placed  beside  the 


60  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

door,  and  several  people  were  surprised  to  find  that  he  did  not  an- 
swer  to  the  name  of  Jacquot,  for  all  parrots  are  called  Jacquot.  He 
was  compared  to  a  turkey  and  a  log,  and  this  always  stabbed  Felicite 
to  the  heart.  And  Loulou  was  strangely  obstinate.  If  you  looked  at 
him,  he  wouldn't  speak! 

All  the  same  he  was  fond  of  society.  On  Sunday,  when  the  Roche- 
feuille  girls,  Monsieur  de  Houppeville,  and  some  new  acquaintances 
— Onfroy  the  chemist,  Monsieur  Varin,  and  Captain  Mathieu— were 
playing  cards,  he  used  to  beat  the  windows  with  his  wings  and  fling 
himself  about  so  furiously  that  you  couldn't  hear  yourself  talk. 

It  would  seem  as  if  Bourais'  face  struck  him  as  extremely  funny. 
The  moment  he  saw  it  he  began  to  laugh,  and  laughed  with  all  his 
might.  His  shrieks  rang  through  the  courtyard  and  the  echo  repeated 
them.  The  neighbours  would  come  to  their  windows  and  laugh  too, 
while  Monsieur  Bourais,  to  escape  the  parrot's  eye,  would  slip  along 
under  the  wall,  hiding  his  face  in  his  hat,  reach  the  river,  and  enter 
by  the  garden  gate.  There  was  no  tenderness  in  the  scowls  which  he 
darted  at  that  bird. 

Loulou  had  been  buffeted  by  the  butcher's  boy  for  daring  to  stick 
his  head  into  his  basket.  Ever  since  he  had  been  trying  to  nip  him 
through  his  shirt.  Fabu  threatened  to  wring  his  neck,  although  he 
was  by  no  means  cruel  in  spite  of  his  tattooed  arm  and  great 
whiskers.  On  the  contrary,  he  secretly  liked  the  parrot,  and  in  his 
merry  humour  even  wanted  to  teach  him  to  swear.  Felicite,  alarmed 
by  such  doings,  put  the  bird  in  the  kitchen.  His  little  chain  was 
removed  and  he  wandered  round  the  house. 

When  he  wanted  to  come  downstairs,  he  used  to  lean  on  each  step 
with  his  beak,  raise  his  right  foot,  and  then  his  left.  Felicite  was 
afraid  such  gymnastics  made  him  giddy.  He  fell  ill  and  could  neither 
talk  nor  eat  any  longer.  He  had  a  growth  under  his  tongue  as  birds 
often  have.  She  cured  him  by  tearing  the  skin  off  with  her  finger 
nails.  One  day  Monsieur  Paul  thoughtlessly  blew  some  cigar  smoke 
into  his  face,  and  another  day  when  Madame  Lormeau  was  teasing 
him  with  the  tip  of  her  umbrella,  he  snapped  at  the  ferrule.  At  last 
he  got  lost. 

Felicite  had  set  him  down  on  the  grass  to  get  some  fresh  air  and 
went  away  for  a  moment.  When  she  came  back,  there  was  no  parrot 
to  be  seen.  First  she  hunted  for  him  in  the  shrubbery,  on  the  river 
bank,  and  over  the  roofs,  paying  no  attention  to  her  mistress's  cries  of 
"Take  care!  You've  lost  your  wits!"  Then  she  explored  all  the  gar- 
dens in  Pont-L'£veque,  and  stopped  everyone  who  passed  by. 

"You  don't  happen  to  have  seen  my  parrot  by  any  chance,  have 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  61 

you?"  She  described  the  parrot  to  those  who  did  not  know  him.  All 
at  once,  she  seemed  to  see  something  green  fluttering  behind  the 
mills  at  the  foot  of  the  hill.  But  there  was  nothing  on  the  hilltop.  A 
pedlar  assured  her  that  he  had  just  come  across  the  parrot  in  Mere 
Simon's  shop  at  Saint-Melaine.  She  hurried  there.  They  had  no  idea 
what  she  meant.  At  last  she  same  home  exhausted,  with  her  slippers 
in  tatters  and  despair  in  her  soul.  As  she  was  sitting  beside  Madame 
on  the  garden  seat,  telling  her  the  whole  story  of  her  adventures, 
something  light  dropped  on  to  her  shoulder.  It  was  Loulou!  What 
on  earth  had  he  been  doing?  Taking  a  walk  in  the  neighbourhood, 
perhaps! 

She  had  some  trouble  in  getting  over  this,  or  rather  she  never  did 
get  over  it.  After  a  chill  she  had  quinsy,  and  soon  afterwards  an  ear- 
ache. Three  years  later  she  was  deaf,  and  she  spoke  very  loud,  even 
in  church.  Although  Felicite's  sins  might  have  been  shouted  in  every 
corner  of  the  diocese  without  dishonouring  her  or  scandalising  any- 
body, the  priest  thought  it  advisable  to  hear  her  confession  in  the 
sacristy. 

Imaginary  noises  in  her  head  completed  her  misfortune.  Her  mis- 
tress would  often  say  to  her:  "Good  heavens!  how  stupid  you  are!" 
And  she  would  reply:  "Yes,  Madame,"  and  look  round  for  some- 
thing. 

Her  little  circle  of  ideas  grew  narrower  and  narrower.  The  peal 
of  church  bells  and  the  lowing  of  cattle  no  longer  existed  for  her. 
Human  beings  moved  in  ghostly  silence.  Only  one  sound  reached 
her  ears  now— the  parrot's  voice. 

Loulou,  as  if  to  amuse  her,  copied  the  clatter  of  the  turnspit,  the 
shrill  cry  of  a  man  hawking  fish,  and  the  noise  of  the  joiner's  saw 
in  the  opposite  house.  Whenever  the  doorbell  rang,  he  used  to  mimic 
Madame  Aubin's  "Felicite!  the  door!  the  door!" 

They  used  to  carry  on  conversations.  He  would  repeat  endlessly 
the  three  phrases  in  his  repertory,  and  she  would  answer  in  words 
which  were  just  as  disconnected,  but  which  expressed  what  lay  in 
her  heart.  In  her  isolation,  Loulou  was  almost  a  son  and  a  lover 
to  her.  He  would  climb  up  her  fingers,  nibble  at  her  lips,  and  cling  to 
her  shawl.  When  she  bent  her  forehead  and  shook  her  head  gently, 
as  nurses  do,  the  great  wings  of  her  bonnet  and  the  wings  of  the  bird 
fluttered  together. 

When  the  clouds  gathered  and  the  thunder  rumbled,  Loulou 
would  shriek,  possibly  remembering  the  downpours  in  his  native 
forests.  The  streaming  rain  would  drive  him  absolutely  mad.  He 
would  flap  about  wildly,  dash  up  to  the  ceiling,  upset  everything, 


62  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

and  go  out  through  the  window  to  splash  about  in  the  garden.  But 
he  would  soon  come  back  to  perch  on  one  of  the  andirons,  and 
would  hop  about  drying  his  feathers,  showing  his  tail  and  his  beak 
in  turn. 

One  morning  in  the  terrible  winter  of  1837,  she  had  put  him  in 
front  of  the  fire  because  of  the  cold.  She  found  him  dead,  in  the 
middle  of  his  cage,  head  down,  with  his  claws  in  the  bars.  No  doubt 
he  had  died  of  congestion.  But  Felicite  decided  that  he  had  been 
poisoned  with  parsley,  and  though  she  had  no  proof  of  it,  she  was 
inclined  to  suspect  Fabu. 

She  wept  so  bitterly  that  her  mistress  said  to  her:  "Well,  then, 
have  the  bird  stuffed!" 

She  asked  the  chemist's  advice,  for  he  had  always  been  kind  to  the 
parrot.  He  wrote  to  Havre,  and  a  man  called  Fellacher  undertook 
the  job.  But  as  parcels  sometimes  got  lost  in  the  mail  coach,  she 
decided  to  take  the  parrot  as  far  as  Honfleur  herself. 

Along  the  roadside  were  leafless  apple  trees  stretching  endlessly. 
The  ditches  were  covered  with  ice.  Dogs  barked  on  the  farms,  and 
Felicite,  with  her  hands  under  her  cloak,  and  her  little  black  wooden 
shoes  and  her  basket,  walked  quickly  in  the  middle  of  the  road. 

She  crossed  the  forest,  passed  Le  Haut-Chene,  and  came  to 
St.  Gatien. 

The  mail  coach  rushed  at  full  gallop  like  a  hurricane  behind  her 
in  a  cloud  of  dust  with  gathering  momentum  down  the  steep  hill. 
Seeing  this  woman,  who  did  not  get  out  of  the  way,  the  driver  stood 
up  in  front  and  the  postilion  shouted,  while  the  four  horses  which 
he  could  not  control  increased  their  speed,  and  the  two  leaders 
grazed  her  just  as  he  threw  them  to  one  side  with  a  jerk  of  the  reins. 
He  was  wild  with  fury  and,  raising  his  arm  as  he  raced  by,  he  gave 
her  such  a  lash  from  her  waist  to  her  neck  with  his  long  whip  that  she 
fell  on  her  back. 

The  first  thing  she  did,  when  she  recovered  consciousness,  was  to 
open  her  basket.  Fortunately,  Loulou  was  none  the  worse.  She  felt 
her  right  cheek  bleeding,  and  when  she  put  her  hand  on  it,  it  was 
red.  The  blood  was  flowing. 

She  sat  down  on  a  pile  of  stones  and  bandaged  her  face  with  her 
handkerchief.  Then  she  ate  a  crust  which  she  had  put  in  her  basket 
as  a  precaution,  and  consoled  herself  for  her  wound  by  gazing  at 
the  bird. 

When  she  reached  the  hilltop  of  Ecquemauville,  she  saw  the 
lights  of  Honfleur  twinkling  in  the  night  like  a  host  of  stars.  Far  off, 
the  sea  stretched  dimly.  Then  she  was  seized  with  faintness  and 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  63 

paused.  Her  miserable  childhood,  the  wreck  of  her  first  love,  her 
nephew's  departure,  Virginie's  death,  all  flooded  in  on  her  at  once, 
like  the  waves  of  a  making  tide,  rose  in  her  throat,  and  choked  her. 

Later  she  made  a  point  of  speaking  to  the  captain  of  the  boat,  and 
besought  him  to  take  care  of  the  package,  but  did  not  tell  him  what 
it  contained. 

Fellacher  kept  the  parrot  a  long  time.  He  kept  promising  to  send 
it  back  the  following  week.  After  six  months  he  announced  that  a 
case  was  on  its  way,  and  then  she  heard  no  more  of  it.  It  seemed  as 
if  Loulou  would  never  come  back.  "They  have  stolen  him,"  was 
her  thought. 

At  last  he  arrived,  and  he  looked  magnificently.  There  he  stood 
erect  on  a  branch  screwed  into  a  mahogany  base,  with  one  claw  in 
the  air  and  his  head  cocked  on  one  side,  biting  at  a  nut,  which  the 
ornithologist,  with  a  sense  of  drama,  had  gilded. 

Felicite  shut  him  up  in  her  room.  Very  few  people  were  admitted 
to  this  place,  which  held  so  many  religious  objects  and  varied  odds 
and  ends  that  it  looked  like  a  chapel  turned  into  a  bazaar. 

A  huge  wardrobe  interfered  with  the  door  as  you  came  in.  Oppo- 
site the  window  which  overlooked  the  garden,  a  little  round  window 
offered  a  glimpse  of  the  courtyard.  There  was  a  table  beside  the 
folding  bed  with  a  jug,  two  combs,  and  a  cube  of  blue  soap  on  a 
chipped  plate.  The  walls  were  covered  with  rosaries,  medals,  several 
gracious  Virgins,  and  a  holy  water  stoup  made  out  of  a  cocoanut.  On 
the  chest  of  drawers,  which  was  covered  with  a  cloth  like  an  altar, 
were  the  shell  box  which  Victor  had  given  her,  a  watering-pot,  a 
toy  balloon,  copybooks,  the  illustrated  Geography,  and  a  pair  of 
girl's  boots.  And,  tied  by  its  ribbons  to  the  nail  of  the  looking  glass, 
hung  the  little  felt  hat.  Felicite  carried  her  ritual  so  far  as  to  keep 
one  of  Monsieur's  frock  coats.  All  the  old  rubbish  which  Madame 
Aubin  had  cast  aside  she  carried  off  to  her  room.  And  so  there  were 
artificial  flowers  along  the  edge  of  the  chest  of  drawers  and  a  portrait 
of  the  Comte  d'Artois  in  the  tiny  window  recess. 

Loulou  was  set  on  a  bracket  over  the  chimney  piece  which  jutted 
out  into  the  room.  Every  morning  when  she  woke  she  saw  him  there 
in  the  dawn,  and  remembered  old  times  and  the  least  details  of  insig- 
nificant acts  in  a  painless  and  peaceful  quietude. 

She  had  intercourse  with  no  one,  and  lived  like  one  who  walks 
in  her  sleep.  Only  the  Corpus  Christi  processions  were  able  to  rouse 
her.  Then  she  would  go  about  begging  mats  and  candlesticks  from 
the  neighbours  to  ornament  the  altar  which  was  put  up  in  the  street. 

In  church  she  was  always  gazing  at  the  Holy  Ghost  in  the  window, 


64  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

and  noticed  that  he  looked  rather  like  the  parrot.  The  likeness  was 
more  remarkable,  she  thought,  on  a  crude  chromo  representing  the 
baptism  of  Our  Lord.  With  his  purple  wings  and  emerald  body,  the 
dove  was  the  image  of  Loulou. 

She  bought  the  picture  and  hung  it  up  in  place  of  the  Comte 
d'Artois,  so  that  she  could  see  them  both  together  at  a  single  glance. 
They  were  united  in  her  thoughts,  and  the  parrot  was  consecrated 
by  his  connection  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  grew  more  and  more 
vivid  and  intelligible  to  her.  The  Father  could  not  have  chosen  to 
express  Himself  through  a  dove,  for  these  birds  cannot  speak.  He 
must  have  chosen  one  of  Loulou's  ancestors.  Though  Felicite  used 
to  look  at  the  picture  while  she  was  saying  her  prayers,  now  and 
then  her  glance  turned  toward  the  parrot. 

She  was  anxious  to  join  the  Ladies  of  the  Blessed  Virgin,  but 
Madame  Aubin  dissuaded  her. 

Then  a  great  event  loomed  up  before  their  eyes— Paul's  marriage. 

He  had  been  successively  a  solicitor's  clerk,  in  business,  in  the 
Customs,  in  the  Internal  Revenue,  and  had  even  made  an  effort  to 
get  into  the  Bureau  of  Forestry,  when,  at  the  age  of  thirty-six,  he 
was  inspired  to  discover  his  real  vocation— the  Registrar's  Office. 
There  he  had  shown  such  marked  talent  that  an  inspector  had 
offered  him  his  daughter's  hand  and  promised  him  his  patronage. 
Paul,  now  grown  serious,  brought  the  girl  to  see  his  mother. 

She  criticised  the  ways  of  Pont-L'£veque  sharply  enough,  gave 
herself  high  and  mighty  airs,  and  hurt  Felicite's  feelings.  Madame 
Aubin  was  glad  when  she  went  away. 

A  week  later  news  came  of  Monsieur  Bourais'  death  at  an  inn  in 
Lower  Brittany.  The  rumour  of  his  suicide  was  confirmed,  and 
doubts  arose  about  his  honesty.  Madame  Aubin  scrutinised  his 
accounts,  and  soon  learned  the  whole  story  of  his  misdeeds— embez- 
zled arrears,  secret  sales  of  lumber,  forged  receipts,  and  so  on. 
Besides  all  that,  he  had  an  illegitimate  child,  and  "relations  with  a 
person  at  Dozule." 

These  disgraceful  facts  greatly  upset  her.  In  March,  1853,  sne  was 
seized  with  a  pain  in  the  chest.  Her  throat  seemed  to  be  coated  with 
film,  and  leeches  did  not  help  the  difficulty  she  found  in  breathing. 
She  died  on  the  ninth  evening  of  her  illness. 

She  was  just  seventy-two. 

She  passed  as  being  younger,  thanks  to  the  bands  of  brown  hair 
which  framed  her  pale,  pock-marked  face.  She  left  few  friends  to 
regret  her  passing,  for  she  had  a  haughtiness  of  manner  which  kept 
folk  off. 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  65 

But  Felicite*  mourned  for  her  as  servants  seldom  mourn  for  their 
mistresses.  It  upset  her  notions,  and  seemed  to  reverse  the  whole 
order  of  things,  that  Madame  should  die  before  her.  It  was  incon- 
ceivable and  monstrous. 

Ten  days  later  the  heirs  hastily  arrived  from  Besancon.  The 
daughter-in-law  ransacked  the  drawers,  chose  some  pieces  of  furni- 
ture, and  sold  the  remainder.  Then  they  went  back  to  their  Regis- 
trar's business. 

Madame's  armchair,  her  little  round  table,  her  foot-warmer,  her 
eight  chairs,  were  all  gone.  Yellow  patches  in  the  middle  of  the 
panels  showed  where  the  engravings  had  hung.  They  had  carried  off 
the  two  little  beds  and  mattresses,  and  all  the  relics  of  Virginie  had 
disappeared  from  the  cupboard.  Felicite  wandered  from  floor  to  floor 
in  a  sorrowful  daze. 

Next  day  there  was  a  notice  on  the  door,  and  the  chemist  shouted 
in  her  ear  that  the  house  was  for  sale. 

She  tottered,  and  had  to  sit  down.  What  distressed  her  most  of  all 
was  giving  up  her  room,  which  was  so  suitable  for  poor  Loulou.  She 
wrapped  him  in  a  gaze  of  anguish  as  she  implored  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  formed  the  idolatrous  habit  of  kneeling  in  front  of  the  parrot 
whenever  she  said  her  prayers.  Occasionally  the  sun  shone  through 
the  little  window  of  her  attic  and  caught  his  glass  eye,  and  a  great 
luminous  ray  would  shoot  out  from  it  and  put  her  in  an  ecstasy. 

Her  mistress  left  her  three  hundred  and  eighty  francs  a  year.  The 
garden  kept  her  in  vegetables,  and  as  for  clothes,  she  had  enough  to 
last  her  until  the  end  of  her  days.  She  saved  candles  by  going  to  bed 
at  twilight. 

She  seldom  went  out,  as  she  did  not  like  to  pass  the  dealer's  shop 
in  which  some  of  the  old  furniture  was  exposed  for  sale.  Since  her 
fit  of  giddiness  she  dragged  one  leg  and,  as  her  strength  was  fading, 
Mere  Simon,  whose  grocery  business  had  come  to  grief,  came  every 
morning  to  split  wood  and  pump  water  for  her. 

Her  sight  grew  feeble.  She  no  longer  opened  the  shutters.  Years 
went  by,  and  the  house  was  neither  let  nor  sold. 

Felicite  never  asked  for  repairs  because  she  was  afraid  of  eviction. 
The  boards  on  the  roof  rotted.  Her  bolster  was  damp  all  one  winter. 
After  Easter  she  spat  blood.  Then  Mere  Simon  called  in  a  doctor. 
Felicite  wanted  to  know  what  was  the  matter  with  her.  But  she  was 
too  deaf  to  hear.  The  only  word  which  reached  her  ears  was  "pneu- 
monia." It  was  a  familiar  word  to  her,  and  she  answered  softly:  "Ah! 
like  Madame!"  thinking  it  only  natural  that  she  should  follow  her 
mistress. 


66  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

The  time  for  the  Corpus  Christi  shrines  drew  nigh.  The  first 
shrine  was  always  at  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  the  second  in  front  of  the 
Post  Office,  and  the  third  half-way  up  the  street.  There  was  some 
rivalry  about  the  last  shrine,  and  finally  the  women  of  the  parish 
chose  Madame  Aubin's  courtyard. 

The  difficult  breathing  and  fever  increased.  Felicite  was  vexed 
that  she  could  do  nothing  for  the  shrine.  If  only  she  could  put  some- 
thing on  it!  Then  she  thought  of  the  parrot.  The  neighbours  pro- 
tested that  it  would  not  be  decent,  but  the  cure  gave  her  permission, 
which  delighted  her  so  much  that  she  begged  him  to  accept  Loulou, 
her  only  treasure,  when  she  died. 

From  Tuesday  till  Saturday,  the  eve  of  the  feast-day,  she  coughed 
more  often.  By  evening  her  face  shrivelled  up,  her  lips  stuck  to  her 
gums,  and  she  had  attacks  of  vomiting.  At  dawn  next  morning,  feel- 
ing very  low,  she  sent  for  the  priest. 

Three  kind  women  were  beside  her  during  the  Extreme  Unction. 
Then  she  said  that  she  must  speak  to  Fabu.  He  came  in  his  Sunday 
best,  quite  ill  at  ease  in  the  funereal  atmosphere. 

"Forgive  me,"  she  said,  making  an  effort  to  stretch  out  her  arms, 
"I  thought  it  was  you  who  had  killed  him." 

What  did  she  mean  by  such  nonsense?  She  had  suspected  him  of 
murder— a  man  like  him.  He  was  furious  and  started  to  make  a  row. 

"Don't  you  see,"  said  the  women,  "that  she  has  lost  her  senses?" 

From  time  to  time  Felicite  talked  with  shadows  around  her  bed. 
The  women  went  away,  and  Mere  Simon  had  her  breakfast.  A  little 
later  she  took  Loulou  and  laid  him  close  to  Felicite,  saying: 

"Come,  now,  say  good-bye  to  him!" 

Loulou  was  not  a  corpse,  but  the  worms  had  devoured  him.  One 
of  his  wings  was  broken,  and  the  stuffing  was  coming  out  of  his 
stomach.  But  Felicite  was  blind  now.  She  kissed  him  on  the  forehead 
and  held  him  close  against  her  cheek.  Mere  Simon  took  him  back 
from  her  and  placed  him  on  the  shrine. 

V 

The  fragrance  of  summer  rose  from  the  meadows,  flies  were 
buzzing,  the  sun  made  the  river  shine  and  heated  the  slates  on  the 
roof.  Mere  Simon  came  back  into  the  room  and  fell  asleep  softly. 
She  was  roused  by  the  sound  of  church  bells.  The  people  were 
coming  out  from  Vespers.  Felicite's  delirium  subsided.  She  thought 
of  the  procession,  and  saw  it  as  if  she  were  taking  part  in  it  herself. 

All  the  school  children,  the  choir,  and  the  firemen  walked  on  the 


A  SIMPLE  HEART  67 

pavement,  while  in  the  middle  of  the  road  the  verger  led  the  way 
with  his  halberd,  and  the  beadle  with  a  large  cross.  Then  came  the 
schoolmaster  watching  the  little  boys,  and  the  Sister  Superior  anxious 
about  the  little  girls.  Three  of  the  most  adorable  little  girls,  with 
curls  like  angels,  were  scattering  rose  petals  in  the  air,  the  deacon 
conducted  the  band  with  outstretched  arms,  and  two  thurifers  turned 
back  at  every  step  towards  the  Blessed  Sacrament,  which  was  carried 
by  Monsieur  the  Cure,  wearing  his  beautiful  chasuble,  under  a 
canopy  of  rich  red  velvet  held  up  by  the  four  churchwardens.  A 
crowd  of  people  surged  behind  between  the  white  draperies  covering 
the  walls  of  the  houses,  and  they  reached  the  bottom  of  the  hill. 

A  cold  sweat  moistened  Felicite's  temples.  Mere  Simon  sponged 
them  with  a  piece  of  linen,  saying  to  herself  that  one  day  she  would 
have  to  go  the  same  road. 

The  roar  of  the  crowd  increased,  was  very  loud  for  a  moment,  and 
then  died  away. 

A  fusillade  shook  the  window.  It  was  the  postilions  saluting  the 
monstrance.  Felicite  turned  her  eyes  round  and  said  as  loud  as  she 
could:  "Does  he  look  well?"  The  parrot  was  on  her  mind. 

Her  agony  began. 

The  death  rattle  became  faster  and  faster  and  made  her  sides 
heave.  Bubbles  of  foam  came  at  the  corners  of  her  mouth,  and  her 
whole  body  trembled. 

Soon  the  booming  of  the  ophicleides,  the  high  voices  of  the  chil- 
dren, and  the  deep  voices  of  the  men  could  be  distinguished.  Now 
and  then  all  was  silent,  and  the  tread  of  feet,  deadened  by  the  flowers 
on  which  they  trampled,  sounded  like  a  flock  drifting  across  grass. 

The  clergy  appeared  in  the  courtyard.  Mere  Simon  climbed  up 
on  a  chair  to  reach  the  attic  window,  and  so  looked  down  on  the 
shrine.  Green  garlands  hung  over  it,  and  it  was  adorned  with  a 
flounce  of  English  lace.  In  the  middle  of  it  was  a  small  frame  with 
relics  in  it.  There  were  two  orange  trees  at  the  corners,  and  all  along 
stood  silver  candlesticks  and  china  vases  full  of  sunflowers,  lilies, 
peonies,  foxgloves  and  tufts  of  hortensia.  This  blazing  mass  of  colour 
from  the  altar  to  the  carpet  spread  over  the  pavement.  Some  rare 
objects  caught  the  eye.  There  was  a  silver-gilt  sugar  bowl  with  a 
crown  of  violets,  pendants  of  Alencon  stone  sparkled  on  moss,  and 
two  Chinese  screens  unfolded  their  landscapes.  Loulou  was  smoth- 
ered in  roses,  and  showed  nothing  but  his  blue  forehead,  like  a  bar 
of  lapis  lazuli. 

The  churchwardens,  the  choir,  and  the  children  took  their  places 
round  the  three  sides  of  the  courtyard.  The  priest  went  slowly  up  the 


68  GUSTAVE  FLAUBERT 

steps,  and  placed  his  great,  radiant  golden  sun  upon  the  lace  of  the 
shrine.  They  all  knelt  down.  There  was  a  great  silence.  The  censers 
swung  slowly  to  and  fro  on  the  full  length  of  their  chains. 

An  azure  vapour  rose  and  entered  Felicite's  room.  It  came  to  her 
nostrils.  She  inhaled  it  sensuously,  mystically.  She  closed  her  eyes. 
Her  lips  smiled.  Her  heart-beat  dwindled  one  by  one,  more  fleeting 
and  soft  each  moment,  as  a  fountain  sinks,  an  echo  vanishes.  When 
she  sighed  her  last  breath,  she  thought  she  saw  an  opening  in 
Heaven,  and  a  gigantic  parrot  fluttering  over  her  head. 


Benzoin  for  the  Turbinates 


BY  ST.  CLAIR  McKELWAY 


When,  after  the  customary  period  of  discomfort,  I  got  over  my 
last  cold  of  the  winter  of  1939-40,  I  made  up  my  mind  to  start 
the  winter  of  1940-41  by  taking  my  first  cold  of  the  new  season  to  an 
up-to-date  hospital  and  asking  the  medical  profession  to  handle  it. 
I  wanted  to  find  out  just  what  science  could  do  for  a  cold.  I  talked 
my  plan  over  with  a  friend  of  mine,  a  nose-and-ear  specialist,  and  he 
said  that,  medically,  the  experience  probably  would  not  be  worth 
the  money  it  would  cost  me,  but  I  told  him  I  would  make  provisions 
for  the  extravagance  during  the  summer.  In  that  case,  he  said,  all  I 
would  have  to  do  would  be  to  telephone  him  when  the  first  cold  of 
the  winter  came  along  and  he  would  have  me  admitted  to  his  favorite 
hospital,  a  luxurious  establishment  on  the  East  River.  Then,  he 
said,  he  would  call  in  a  general  practitioner  he  knew  of  who  made  a 
hobby  of  keeping  up  with  the  latest  news  in  the  field  of  medicine 
known  as  "respiratory  infections." 

"But  I  thought  a  cold  would  be  right  up  the  alley  of  a  nose  man," 
I  said. 

"Oh  no,"  said  my  friend.  "I  fool  with  the  mucous  membrane  in- 
side the  head— the  back  of  the  nose,  the  sinuses,  and  the  little  canals 
that  run  into  the  ears.  I  confine  myself  to  about  a  foot  and  a  half  of 
mucous  membrane,  all  told,  and  as  it  is,  I  am  frequently  baffled.  I 
don't  even  like  much  to  go  down  as  far  as  the  throat  if  I  can  help  it. 
When  something  like  a  common  cold,  an  acute  infection  or  inflam- 
mation of  that  kind,  breaks  out  in  my  territory,  I  prefer  to  lay  off 
until  things  begin  to  clear  up  again  and  I  can  see  what  I'm  doing. 
If  you  came  in  my  office  with  a  bang-up  common  cold,  I  might  give 
you  some  stuff  to  take,  swab  you  out,  and  tell  you  to  stay  in  bed  until 
you  got  over  it,  but  I  wouldn't  really  work  on  your  nose  until  the 
cold  had  gone.  A  cold  affects  the  whole  body.  When  you  begin  to  get 
over  this  cold  you  expect  to  catch  next  winter,  I'll  have  a  look  at  you 

after  I  admit  you  to  the  hospital,  and  later  on,  if  you  want  to  do  it  up 

69 


70  ST.  CLAIR  McKELWAY 

brown,  I'll  see  to  the  nasal  mucous  membrane  and  the  sinuses.  But 
the  general  man  will  really  do  most  of  the  work  on  you." 

On  the  evening  of  February  25th,  I  sneezed  a  few  times,  and  woke 
up  the  next  morning  with  a  cold.  I  took  my  temperature,  found  that 
it  was  almost  two  degrees  above  normal,  and  called  my  friend  the 
nose-and-ear  man.  An  hour  later  I  was  in  the  hospital,  and  in  bed. 
The  general  practitioner  turned  up  almost  immediately.  My  friend 
had  told  him  of  my  peculiar  case  and  he  seemed  interested.  He  said 
he  would  not  have  to  go  to  any  great  trouble  to  take  care  of  me  be- 
cause he  had  a  number  of  other  patients  in  the  same  hospital  and 
made  a  point  of  calling  there  at  least  once  a  day.  He  was  middle-aged, 
with  an  intelligent  face,  apparently  the  kind  of  doctor  who  doesn't  go 
in  much  for  hocus-pocus.  I  asked  him  to  give  me  the  works,  and  told 
him  I  would  probably  put  a  good  many  questions  to  him  and  perhaps 
ask  him  to  bring  me  one  of  the  latest  medical  reports  on  the  progress 
of  the  profession's  fight  against  the  common  cold.  "It's  a  fascinating 
subject,"  he  said.  'Til  bring  you  some  stuff  to  read  later  on  if  you 
like."  Then,  pulling  up  my  pajama  shirt,  he  began  to  thump  my 
chest. 

"I've  always  wondered  just  what  that  thumping  is  for,"  I  said. 

He  laughed.  "As  a  matter  of  fact,"  he  said,  "it's  sort  of  a  reflex  ac- 
tion with  a  doctor.  Of  course,  if  you  had  pneumonia,  I  could  prob- 
ably tell  by  this  thumping  that  the  lungs  were  badly  congested,  but, 
between  us,  it  doesn't  really  mean  a  great  deal."  He  looked  at  my 
throat,  made  me  say  ah,  and  felt  my  pulse.  A  floor  nurse  came  in, 
punctured  my  middle  finger,  and  went  off  with  some  of  my  blood. 

I  looked  at  the  doctor  inquiringly. 

"Doing  all  this  and  explaining  as  I  go  along  makes  the  whole 
thing  seem  pretty  silly,"  he  said.  "It  has  some  sense  to  it,  but  I  hate 
to  admit  how  much.  I  look  in  your  throat  just  to  see  if  you  have  any- 
thing remarkable  in  there,  like  diphtheria  spots  or  something  that 
looks  like  a  streptococcus  infection.  We'll  take  a  blood  count  from 
that  blood,  and  if  you  have  pneumonia,  your  blood  count  will  be 
high.  It  is  caused  by  a  specific  germ  that  has. been  identified.  With  a 
common  cold,  the  blood  count  will  be  normal. 

"You  know,  a  common  cold  would  be  extremely  difficult  to 
diagnose  in  a  strictly  scientific  manner,"  he  went  on  reflectively. 
"The  symptoms  of  the  common  cold  are  the  same,  at  the  outset,  as 
measles  and  a  number  of  other  diseases.  The  doctor  usually  takes 
the  patient's  diagnosis  and,  providing  he  finds  no  obvious  complica- 
tions, proceeds  on  the  theory  that  what  he  is  treating  is  a  cold.  You 
say  you  have  a  cold.  Well,  you've  had  them  before,  and  you  ought  to 


BENZOIN  FOR  THE  TURBINATES  71 

know  what  a  cold  feels  like.  I  take  your  word  for  it.  But  if  you  were 
deaf  and  dumb  and  couldn't  communicate  with  me  in  any  way  at  all 
and  came  to  see  me  with  these  same  symptoms,  I  don't  mind  saying  I 
might  have  one  hell  of  a  time  figuring  out  what  was  the  matter  with 
you.  Running  nose  and  a  little  fever,  I  would  say  to  myself,  but  I 
wouldn't  be  able  to  find  out  how  you  felt  and  I  wouldn't  know  for 
sure  whether  it  was  just  a  cold  or  God  knows  what.  I'd  have  to  wait 
and  see." 

I  was  feeling  fairly  good,  although  I  could  tell  by  the  way  my  nose 
was  and  by  the  chills  running  up  and  down  my  back  that,  unless  this 
was  measles  or  something  else,  it  was  what  a  layman  would  refer  to 
as  "a  cold  that  feels  grippy"  or  "a  hell  of  a  bad  cold"  when  he  calls 
his  office  to  say  he  won't  be  in.  It  seemed  to  be  the  sort  of  cold  I 
would  ordinarily  have  stayed  home  with  two  days,  going  out  still 
coughing  and  recovering  entirely  about  a  week  after  that.  I  asked  the 
doctor  to  tell  me  what  the  treatment  was  to  be,  so  that  I  could  under- 
stand it  as  we  went  along. 

"You'll  be  given  lots  of  liquids,  in  the  first  place,"  he  said.  "Orange 
juice,  lemon  juice,  water,  and  so  on.  Then  you'll  have  some  special 
capsules,  some  nose  drops,  an  occasional  gargle,  and  the  room  will  be 
kept  warm.  You  won't  feel  much  like  smoking  and  it  would  probably 
be  better  if  you  didn't,  but  we're  not  absolutely  sure  it  makes  any 
difference,  so  you  can  smoke  if  vou  want  to.  We'll  have  you  out  of 
here  in  three  or  four  days." 

The  nurse  came  in  with  a  tall,  three-legged  table  and  a  large  glass 
vessel  with  a  long  glass  neck,  like  a  chemist's  retort.  She  set  it  up  in  a 
corner  and  went  out  again,  an  intent  expression  on  her  face.  It 
looked  to  me  as  if  this  meant  business,  and  I  asked  the  doctor  what  it 
was.  "It's  just  an  inhalator,"  he  said.  "It  has  plain  water  inside,  with 
a  little  benzoin.  She'll  put  an  electric  burner  under  it  now  and  it 
will  boil  and  the  steam  will  add  humidity  to  the  room." 

"What  will  the  benzoin  do?" 

"As  a  matter  of  fact,"  he  said,  grinning,  "the  effect  of  the  benzoin 
is  largely  psychological.  It  smells  medical.  But  there  is  a  chance  that 
the  fumes  will  help  soothe  your  nose  and  throat." 

"What's  in  the  capsules,  then?" 

"They'll  make  you  drowsy  and  help  you  to  relax  and  give  your 
system  a  better  chance  to  fight  off  the  cold.  There's  codeine  in  them, 
which  is  a  narcotic  that  seems  to  have  some  specific  quality  in  break- 
ing up  colds.  Not  always,  mind  you,  but  often  enough  to  be  fairly 
impressive.  Then  there's  phenacetin,  a  coal-tar  preparation  which 
helps  diminish  whatever  pain  you  may  be  having— aching,  general 


72  ST.  CLAIR  McKELWAY 

discomfort,  and  so  forth.  It  also  helps  to  keep  the  temperature  down. 
And  a  little  caffeine  to  counteract  the  heart-depressant  effects  of  the 
codeine  and  the  phenacetin." 

I  asked  him  to  write  down  these  terms  for  me,  and  he  did. 

"Won't  there  be  any  other  treatment  besides  what  yoVve  de- 
scribed?" I  asked. 

"Nope,"  he  said.  "That's  about  the  works.  Of  course,  I  could  give 
you  a  few  other  fancy  things  of  extremely  doubtful  value,  but  for 
combatting  this  cold— the  ordinary,  acute,  grippy  infection  of  the 
upper  respiratory  tract— what  you're  going  to  get  is  the  works." 

My  friend  the  nose-and-ear  man  came  in,  took  one  look  at  my  nose, 
and  said  he  wouldn't  touch  it  now  with  a  ten-foot  pole.  'Til  leave 
you  some  nose  drops,"  he  said.  "The  doctor  here  and  myself  both 
use  the  same  kind.  About  the  day  after  tomorrow,  I  may  be  able  to 
get  in  there  and  see  if  there's  anything  for  me  to  do." 

I  asked  what  the  nose  drops  did. 

"They  shrink  the  mucous  membrane  so  as  to  keep  your  nose  as 
far  open  as  possible,"  he  said. 

The  nurse,  having  started  the  inhalator,  brought  me  two  of  the 
capsules  and  a  large  glass  of  orange  juice.  I  took  the  capsules  and 
drank  the  orange  juice.  My  two  doctors  and  I  chatted  for  a  while, 
and  I  asked  them  if  many  people  went  into  hospitals  with  common 
colds  like  mine. 

"More  than  you  might  think,"  the  general  man  said.  "A  good 
many  old  people,  naturally,  who  are  rightly  afraid  of  developing 
pneumonia.  Quite  a  few  mild  hypochondriacs  who  aren't  so  much 
afraid  of  disease,  really,  as  they  are  crazy  about  hospitals.  They  come 
in  here,  get  very  elated,  call  up  all  their  friends,  and  make  big  plans 
for  the  future.  They  find  it  a  stimulating  escape.  There's  a  banker 
who  comes  here  every  time  he  catches  cold  and  has  himself  a  hell  of  a 
fine  time.  Then  a  good  many  ordinary  men  and  women  with  money 
to  spare  have  reached  the  conclusion  that  it's  a  good  idea  to  give 
in  to  a  cold  and  let  us  handle  it,  at  the  same  time  getting  themselves 
a  nice  rest." 

I  hinted  that  I  had  expected  the  handling  of  a  cold  by  two  doc- 
tors in  a  first-class  hospital  to  be  a  good  deal  more  aggressive  than  it 
appeared  to  be  so  far. 

"Don't  excite  yourself  now,"  the  nose  man  said.  "I  told  you  it 
wouldn't  be  worth  the  money." 

The  nurse  brought  another  half-pint  of  orange  juice  and  left  it  on 
the  bedside  table. 

"As  I  see  it,"  I  said  to  my  doctors,  "no  sledge-hammer  blows  are 


BENZOIN  FOR  THE  TURBINATES  73 

being  struck  by  science  in  the  battle  against  the  common  cold.  I 
could  do  all  this  at  home,  except  for  the  benzoin." 

"Sure,"  said  the  general  man.  "This  is  the  luxurious  way,  that's  all. 
But,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  I'll  bet  you'll  be  more  cured  when  you  leave 
here  than  you  are  ordinarily  when  you  treat  yourself  at  home.  At 
home,  even  with  a  wife  or  a  maid  to  look  after  you,  you  probably 
keep  getting  up  and  putting  on  a  bathrobe  and  going  out  to  the 
living  room  to  get  a  book  or  something,  you  worry  about  when 
you're  going  to  get  back  to  work,  and  you  forget  to  take  all  the  cap- 
sules and  liquids  and  nose  drops  at  the  right  time,  or  you  say  nuts  to 
them  if  you  do  remember,  and  consequently  you  don't  get  over  your 
cold  as  quickly  or  as  completely  as  you'll  get  over  it  here." 

"Whereas  here,"  said  the  nose  man,  "there's  no  use  in  worrying 
about  when  you'll  get  out,  because  you  can't  get  out  until  I  release 
you." 

"If  you  tried  to  get  out  before  you  were  released,  they'd  just  put 
you  in  a  straitjacket,"  said  the  general  man. 

"Go  away,  fellows,"  I  said. 

"I'll  bring  you  that  stuff  to  read,"  the  general  man  said.  "You'll 
see  how  the  common  cold  has  got  science  up  a  tree." 

We  said  goodbye.  Snuffling  and  somewhat  disappointed,  I  drank 
the  second  half-pint  of  orange  juice  and  the  nurse  came  in  and  ad- 
ministered the  nose  drops.  The  inhalator  was  snuffling  now,  too,  in  a 
soothing  way,  giving  off  businesslike  puffs  of  steamy  benzoin.  In  a 
few  minutes  I  went  to  sleep. 

That  day  and  the  next  I  felt  much  worse  than  I  usually  feel  with  a 
bad  cold.  I  slept  a  great  part  of  the  time  and  didn't  feel  like  reading 
or  even  talking.  I  drank  all  the  liquids  the  nurse  brought  me,  snuffed 
in  the  nose  drops  three  times  a  day,  took  the  special  capsules,  and 
breathed  the  benzoin  fumes.  On  the  third  day,  the  capsules  having 
been  discontinued,  I  felt  better.  My  nose  was  no  longer  stuffed  up, 
and  I  could  sense  that  the  cold  was  in  the  interregnum  stage  that 
often  occurs  after  it  has  begun  to  get  out  of  the  nose  and  hasn't  yet 
quite  got  into  the  chest. 

The  nose  man  came  in,  looked  at  my  sinuses  by  means  of  lights 
and  mirrors,  and  said  there  was  nothing  wrong  with  them.  "Keep 
taking  the  nose  drops  for  a  couple  more  days,"  he  said.  "I  probably 
won't  come  in  again.  I've  got  a  wonderful  case  down  at  the  clinic,  a 
guy  with  a  sinus  coming  right  out  of  his  forehead.  That's  the  sort  of 
thing  I  live  for.  So  long." 

When  the  general  man  came  in  that  morning,  I  asked  him  if  there 
was  any  chance  of  keeping  this  cold  from  getting  into  my  chest. 


74  ST.   CLAIR  McKELWAY 

"Only  the  gargle,"  he  said.  "You'll  be  given  a  gargle  four  or  five 
times  today.  The  gargle  isn't  very  interesting,"  he  added  hastily.  "Just 
hot  salt  water,  with  a  little  aspirin  and  sodium  bicarbonate  in  it." 

"What  do  the  hot  water,  salt,  soda,  and  aspirin  do?" 
'The  hot  water  increases  the  amount  of  blood  in  the  blood  vessels 
of  the  throat  and  thus  builds  up  the  resistance  of  the  mucous  mem- 
brane. The  salt  is  a  germicide,  or  disinfectant,  the  aspirin  relieves 
the  irritation  and  tends  to  keep  you  from  coughing,  and  the  soda 
just  helps  the  aspirin  to  dissolve  more  homogeneously.  Now  if  you 
ask  me  what  a  germicide  does  in  the  case  of  the  common  cold  you'll 
have  me,  because  what  a  germicide  does  is  kill  germs  and  we  aren't  at 
all  sure  that  there  are  any  germs  connected  with  the  common  cold." 

I  asked  him  to  crank  up  the  bed  a  bit,  so  I  could  sit  up  straight. 

"I  knew  in  a  vague  way  that  the  exact  germ  for  the  common  cold 
hadn't  been  found,"  I  said,  "but  there's  no  doubt  about  the  cold  be- 
ing caused  by  a  germ,  is  there?" 

"All  kinds  of  doubt,"  he  said.  "I've  brought  you  a  pretty  exhaus- 
tive paper  written  recently  by  two  medical  men  who  are  scientifically 
from  Missouri,  and  you  can  read  it  if  you  like  and  we  can  talk  about 
it  tomorrow.  The  gist  of  it  is  that  it  is  beginning  to  look  as  if  the 
common  cold  is  more  probably  caused  by  sudden  changes  of  tem- 
perature than  by  a  germ." 

He  took  the  medical  paper  out  of  his  bag. 

"This  just  about  has  everything  in  it  anybody  knows  about  the 
common  cold,"  he  said.  "It  goes  back  to  Hippocrates.  You  know,  for 
hundreds  of  years— at  the  apex  of  the  age  of  reason,  as  a  matter  of 
fact— the  accepted  theory  was  that  colds  and  all  kinds  of  catarrh, 
which  is  Greek  for  'flow  down,'  were  caused  by  stuff  flowing  down 
from  the  brain.  They  thought  that  was  where  all  the  mucus  came 
from  and  that  when  there  was  an  oversupply  of  mucus  in  the  brain, 
it  flowed  down  and  gave  you  a  cold.  We've  demolished  that  theory, 
but  we  still  don't  know  what  causes  a  cold.  This  paper  will  tell  you 
what  goes  on  inside  the  nose  and  how  it  is  constructed,  and  if  it 
doesn't  frighten  you  to  death,  you'll  see  why  a  cold  may  very  well 
have  nothing  to  do  with  germs  at  all." 

"How  do  you  know  it  doesn't  flow  down  from  the  brain?"  I  asked. 
"It  sounds  to  me  as  if  they  had  something  there.  I  think  I  can  feel  it 
flowing  down  right  now." 

"There's  no  way  for  it  to  flow  down,"  he  said.  "Honest  to  God,  we 
know  that.  We  don't  know  much,  but  we  know  that." 

The  paper,  which  I  read  that  afternoon  and  evening,  shows,  among 
other  things,  that  the  nose  is  badly  constructed,  or  at  least  is  built 


BENZOIN  FOR  THE  TURBINATES  75 

along  visionary  rather  than  practical  lines.  The  idea  behind  the  nose 
was  that  it  should,  in  addition  to  its  function  as  the  organ  of  smell, 
act  as  a  sort  of  air-conditioning  apparatus  for  the  lungs.  For  this  pur- 
pose, each  nostril  is  lined  with  three  little  organs,  known  as  the 
superior,  middle,  and  inferior  turbinates.  These  turbinates  are  sup- 
posed to  stand  erect  when  the  air  coming  in  is  cold,  warm  it  up,  and 
at  the  same  time  develop  a  lot  of  moisture  as  it  passes  through,  so  as 
to  add  humidity  to  it.  This  is  what  the  turbinates  are  supposed  to 
do,  but  even  the  superior  turbinate,  it  seems,  is  notoriously  slipshod. 
A  number  of  tests  show,  in  fact,  that  generally  speaking  the  tur- 
binates have  never  been  able  to  handle  their  responsibilities  in  a 
workmanlike  manner. 

A  common  performance  of  the  turbinates  goes  something  like 
this:  You  sit  in  your  office,  or  your  home,  all  morning  on  a  cold  day 
and  the  turbinates  have  little  or  nothing  to  do.  If  the  air  is  a  bit 
dry,  they  may  work  up  some  humidity  by  secreting  moisture,  which 
causes  you  to  blow  your  nose  now  and  then,  but  otherwise  they  re- 
main dormant,  living  in  a  fool's  paradise.  Then  you  put  on  your 
hat  and  coat  and  go  outdoors.  You  would  think  that  the  turbinates 
would  take  this  calmly,  but  not  at  all.  They  stand  erect  immediately 
and  far  too  fast  and  begin  to  secrete  moisture  on  a  scale  much  too 
extensive.  Your  nose  becomes  clogged  by  the  swelling  of  the  tur- 
binates and  runs  freely  because  of  the  overexuberant  moisture- 
secreting  that  is  going  on  at  the  same  time.  This  causes  you  to  fight 
for  survival  by  breathing  directly  through  the  mouth.  The  mouth 
has  no  proper  equipment  for  warming  the  air  or  for  adding  hu- 
midity to  it,  except  incidentally,  in  a  haphazard  way.  The  lungs  are 
not  prepared  for  cold,  dry  air,  and  presumably  are  harmed  by  it;  if 
they  are  not  harmed  by  it,  then  the  whole  conception  of  the  tur- 
binates is  as  foolish  as  their  execution.  At  any  rate,  the  turbinates  go 
all  to  pieces  for  several  minutes  when  you  go  suddenly  out  into  the 
cold,  and  the  medical  profession  is  beginning  to  think  that  the 
mucous  membrane  inside  the  throat  and  at  the  back  of  the  nose  is 
irritated  by  the  unwarmed,  dry  air  and  that  this  irritation,  and  not  a 
germ,  is  what  causes  the  common  cold. 

The  turbinates  are  extremely  sensitive,  and  thus  untrustworthy 
and  likely  to  go  off  half-cocked.  They  appear  to  have  a  hookup  with 
the  brain  and  with  the  sensory  nerves,  which  adds  to  their  in- 
efficiency. For  example,  you  may  be  sitting  in  a  warm  room  with  a 
window  open  somewhere  in  the  house,  which  causes  a  cool  draft  to 
pass  over  your  ankles.  Your  ankles  don't  mind  this  particularly  and 
are  definitely  not  cold,  but  your  turbinates,  which  have  a  busybody 


76  ST.   CLAIR  McKELWAY 

quality  about  them,  interpret  this  sensation  to  mean  that  you  have 
gone  out  in  the  cold  air  and  they  begin  to  swell  up  and  dribble.  The 
medical  profession  doesn't  know  what  the  exact  effect  of  a  mixup 
like  that  is,  but  it  supposes,  reasonably  enough,  that  all  that  warming 
and  watering  at  a  time  when  the  air  is  already  warm  and  humid 
throws  the  mucous  membrane  out  of  gear,  just  as  it  does  when  the 
turbinates  work  so  hard  as  to  make  breathing  through  the  nose  al- 
most impossible,  and  that  the  inflammation  known  as  the  common 
cold  may  be  the  result. 

The  turbinates  are  defective  in  still  another  way.  Leading  into 
them  are  small  blood  vessels,  which  pass  through  bony  structure  on 
the  way.  They  are  thus  unable  to  expand  and  can  carry  only  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  blood.  But  the  blood  vessels  leading  up  to  these 
bony,  constricted  areas  are  larger  than  the  blood  vessels  that  go  into 
the  turbinates.  So  when  the  turbinates,  in  order  to  swell  up,  call  for 
more  blood,  the  blood  accommodatingly  tries  to  rush  to  them  and  is 
hopelessly  dammed  up  by  the  inadequate  blood  vessels  that  pass 
through  the  bony  area.  This  causes  some  kind  of  irritation,  obvi- 
ously. But  worse  than  that,  once  the  blood  has  managed  to  get  to 
the  turbinates,  making  them  swell,  it  has  to  pass  through  similarly 
narrow  and  constricted  veins  in  order  to  get  out  again  when  the  tur- 
binates decide  that  everything  is  all  clear  and  it  is  time  to  go  limp 
again.  Thus,  for  some  little  time  after  the  turbinates  have  called 
everything  off,  they  remain  erect  because  the  blood  has  to  stand 
around  in  front  of  these  narrow  exits.  The  medical  profession  is  in- 
clined to  think  this  sort  of  thing  also  probably  irritates  the  mucous 
membrane.  Knowing  this  much  about  how  the  turbinates  carry  on 
their  work,  it  is  easy  enough  to  imagine  what  they  do  if  your  feet  are 
cold  and  wet;  or  if  you  get  overheated,  so  that  the  turbinates  think 
everything  is  wonderful,  and  then  sit  down  on  a  bench  and  cool  off 
quickly;  or  if  you  do  any  of  the  various  things  which  traditionally  are 
supposed  to  give  you  a  cold. 

"The  turbinates  seem  to  be  nuts,"  I  remarked  when  the  general 
doctor  came  in  the  next  morning.  "And,  incidentally,  this  cold  seems 
to  be  going  down  into  my  chest." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "if  it  is,  it  is  probably  because  the  turbinates  are 
nuts." 

"My  God,"  I  said,  "I  hadn't  got  around  to  wondering  what  the 
turbinates  do  when  you  actually  have  a  cold.  What  do  they  do?" 

"They  lose  all  sense  of  reality,  to  put  it  mildly,"  he  said.  "The 
irritation  to  the  mucous  membrane,  whatever  causes  it,  excites  the 
turbinates  practically  to  the  point  of  insanity.  They  swell  up  and 


BENZOIN  FOR  THE  TURBINATES  77 

stay  swelled  up,  so  you  can  hardly  breathe  at  all  through  the  nose, 
and  the  usually  thin  and  watery  nasal  discharge  which  they  secrete 
in  order  to  humidify  the  air  becomes  thick  and  dry.  In  other  words, 
your  nose  gets  stuffed  up.  This  causes  you  to  breathe  almost  entirely 
through  your  mouth,  and  whether  the  air  is  humid  and  warm  or 
cold  and  dry,  the  lungs  apparently  don't  care  for  air  that  comes  to 
them  directly  through  the  mouth.  It  seems,  at  least,  to  set  up  an 
irritation,  or  infection,  in  the  bronchial  tubes,  and  that  is  why  the 
cold  is  now  going  into  your  chest,  if  it  is  going  into  your  chest  as 
you  say.  The  nose  drops  are  supposed  to  quiet  down  the  turbinates 
and  keep  the  nostrils  open,  but,  of  course,  no  nose  drops  work  per- 
fectly all  the  time." 

"How  do  the  turbinates  seem  to  feel  about  benzoin?" 

"Benzoin  seems  to  soothe  them  somewhat,  but  not  much  more 
than  stroking  soothes  a  scared  rabbit." 

"Well,  I  feel  better  than  I  ordinarily  do  on  the  fourth  day,"  I 
said,  "and  this  cold  doesn't  seem  to  be  going  into  the  chest  as  much 
as  most  of  them  do." 

"Thanks,"  he  said. 

"What  about  these  injections  that  are  supposed  to  prevent  colds?" 
I  asked.  "I  see  by  this  medical  paper  that  some  chimpanzees  that 
have  been  given  the  injections  have  colds  just  the  same  and  some 
don't." 

"They  have  not  been  entirely  successful,"  the  doctor  said.  "They 
are  designed  to  attack  the  causes  of  secondary  and  tertiary  infections 
which  follow  the  initial  infection  or  irritation  known  as  the  com- 
mon cold.  In  many  cases  they  seem  to  make  the  cold  milder  for  this 
reason.  The  idea  is  that,  whatever  causes  the  initial  inflammation,  it 
weakens  the  general  resistance  of  the  mucous  membrane,  and  the 
pneumococcus,  various  kinds  of  streptococcus,  and  other  known 
germs  or  viruses  rush  right  in.  The  injections  work  up  a  partial  im- 
munity to  these  secondary  and  tertiary  invaders.  But  they  don't  al- 
ways work.  One  theory  is  that  these  injections  cause  a  purely  chem- 
ical reaction  which  for  some  reason  tends  to  counteract  the  general 
irritation,  or  infection.  Like  codeine.  Codeine  really  seems  to  have 
some  specific  effect  on  a  cold,  but  it  doesn't  always  have  it,  and  when 
it  does  have  it,  we  don't  know  why  it  does.  There's  another  prepara- 
tion made  from  a  cold  vaccine  which  is  taken  internally,  like  a  pill. 
I  think  it  was  forty  per  cent  of  a  group  of  people  who  reported  great 
improvement  after  taking  this,  but  forty  per  cent  of  another  group 
who  were  given  pills  containing  nothing  at  all  also  reported  great 
improvement.  One  reason  we  are  beginning  to  think  a  cold  isn't 


;8  ST.  CLAIR  McKELWAY 

caused  by  a  germ  is  that  a  cold,  unlike  most  infectious  diseases,  seems 
to  develop  no  immunity.  You  can  have  one  cold  right  on  top  of  an- 
other, as  you  know.  We're  up  a  tree,  as  I  said  before." 

This  business  of  the  common  cold  not  being  caused  by  a  germ  at  all 
sort  of  strikes  at  the  foundation  of  American  civilization,  doesn't  it?" 

"Don't  get  me  wrong,"  the  doctor  said.  "The  no-germ  theory 
hasn't  been  proved,  any  more  than  the  germ  theory.  The  thing  is  we 
just  don't  know.  There's  a  great  deal  to  be  said  for  the  germ  theory, 
although  it  seems  right  now  that  there  is  more  to  be  said  for  the  no- 
germ  theory.  And  anyway,  influenza  is  a  contagious  disease  definitely 
caused  by  a  germ,  so  the  precautions  people  usually  take  to  keep 
from  giving  other  people  their  colds  are  just  as  well.  The  funny  thing 
about  influenza  is  that  the  turbinates  don't  seem  to  be  particularly 
affected  by  it.  You  don't  get  the  same  acute  snuffling  or  stuffed-up 
feeling  with  influenza  that  you  do  with  the  common,  grippy  cold, 
yet  with  influenza  you  are  a  whole  lot  sicker  than  you  are  with  a 
common  cold." 

"I  guess  I  ought  to  get  out  of  here  tomorrow,"  I  said. 

"No  reason  why  you  shouldn't,"  he  said.  "You've  had  no  fever  for 
two  days  and  there  doesn't  seem  to  be  any  serious  bronchial  infec- 
tion. You'll  cough  a  little  for  a  day  or  two,  and  then  you  ought  to 
be  O.K." 

The  doctor  sneezed  suddenly. 

"I  hope  I  haven't  given  you  my  cold,"  I  said. 

"You  may  have,"  he  said.  "If  there  are  any  common  cold  germs, 
I  have  doubtless  picked  some  of  them  up  from  you.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  probably  just  the  turbinates  seeing  ghosts.  Of  course,  a 
piece  of  dust  or  something  may  have  got  up  my  nose  just  then  and 
made  me  sneeze,  the  sneeze  being  a  reflex  action  designed  by  nature 
to  clear  the  nose  of  any  irritating  substance.  But  this  reflex  action 
isn't  absolutely  dependable  either,  any  more  than  the  turbinates  are. 
I  suspect  that  what  happened  just  now  was  that  the  turbinates,  for 
some  reason  known  only  to  themselves,  got  excited  and  worked  up 
an  over-abundant  amount  of  moisture;  this  moisture,  trickling 
through  my  nose,  fooled  my  sensory  nervous  system  into  thinking 
that  there  was  some  irritating  substance  in  there  and  caused  me  to 
sneeze.  Sneezing,  incidentally,  isn't  such  a  good  method  of  ridding 
the  nose  of  an  irritating  substance  because  sneezing  itself  irritates 
the  nose." 

"And  perhaps  causes  or  contributes  to  an  inflammation  of  the 
mucous  membrane  of  the  upper  respiratory  tract?" 

"Exactly,"  he  said. 


September  1,  1939 


BY  W.  H.  AUDEN 


I  sit  in  one  of  the  dives 

On  Fifty-Second  Street 

Uncertain  and  afraid 

As  the  clever  hopes  expire 

Of  a  low  dishonest  decade: 

Waves  of  anger  and  fear 

Circulate  over  the  bright 

And  darkened  lands  of  the  earth, 

Obsessing  our  private  lives; 

The  unmentionable  odour  of  death 

Offends  the  September  night. 

Accurate  scholarship  can 

Unearth  the  whole  offence 

From  Luther  until  now 

That  has  driven  a  culture  mad, 

Find  what  occurred  at  Linz, 

What  huge  imago  made 

A  psychopathic  god: 

I  and  the  public  know 

What  all  schoolchildren  learn, 

Those  to  whom  evil  is  done 

Do  evil  in  return. 

Exiled  Thucydides  knew 
All  that  a  speech  can  say 
About  Democracy, 
And  what  dictators  do, 
The  elderly  rubbish  they  talk 
To  an  apathetic  grave; 
Analysed  all  in  his  book, 

79 


80  W.  H.  AUDEN 

The  enlightenment  driven  away, 
The  habit-forming  pain, 
Mismanagement  and  grief: 
We  must  suffer  them  all  again. 

Into  this  neutral  air 

Where  blind  skyscrapers  use 

Their  full  height  to  proclaim 

The  strength  of  Collective  Man, 

Each  language  pours  its  vain 

Competitive  excuse: 

But  who  can  live  for  long 

In  an  euphoric  dream; 

Out  of  the  mirror  they  stare, 

Imperialism's  face 

And  the  international  wrong. 

Faces  along  the  bar 

Cling  to  their  average  day: 

The  lights  must  never  go  out, 

The  music  must  always  play, 

All  the  conventions  conspire 

To  make  this  fort  assume 

The  furniture  of  home; 

Lest  we  should  see  where  we  are, 

Lost  in  a  haunted  wood, 

Children  afraid  of  the  night 

Who  have  never  been  happy  or  good. 

The  windiest  militant  trash 
Important  Persons  shout 
Is  not  so  crude  as  our  wish: 
What  mad  Nijinsky  wrote 
About  Diaghilev 
Is  true  of  the  normal  heart; 
For  the  error  bred  in  the  bone 
Of  each  woman  and  each  man 
Craves  what  it  cannot  have, 
Not  universal  love 
But  to  be  loved  alone. 


SEPTEMBER    l,    1939  81 

From  the  conservative  dark 

Into  the  ethical  life 

The  dense  commuters  come, 

Repeating  their  morning  vow; 

"I  will  be  true  to  the  wife, 

I'll  concentrate  more  on  my  work," 

And  helpless  governors  wake 

To  resume  their  compulsory  game: 

Who  can  release  them  now, 

Who  can  reach  the  deaf. 

Who  can  speak  for  the  dumb? 

All  I  have  is  a  voice 
To  undo  the  folded  lie, 
The  romantic  lie  in  the  brain 
Of  the  sensual  man-in-the-street 
And  the  lie  of  Authority 
Whose  buildings  grope  the  sky: 
There  is  no  such  thing  as  the  State 
And  no  one  exists  alone; 
Hunger  allows  no  choice 
To  the  citizen  or  the  police; 
We  must  love  one  another  or  die. 

Defenceless  under  the  night 
Our  world  in  stupour  lies; 
Yet,  dotted  everywhere, 
Ironic  points  of  light 
Flash  out  wherever  the  Just 
Exchange  their  messages: 
May  I,  composed  like  them 
Of  Eros  and  of  dust, 
Beleaguered  by  the  same 
Negation  and  despair, 
Show  an  affirming  flame. 


Of  this  Time,  of  that  Place 


BY  LIONEL  TRILLING 


It  was  a  fine  September  day.  By  noon  it  would  be  summer  again 
but  now  it  was  true  autumn  with  a  touch  of  chill  in  the  air.  As 
Joseph  Howe  stood  on  the  porch  of  the  house  in  which  he  lodged, 
ready  to  leave  for  his  first  class  of  the  year,  he  thought  with  pleasure 
of  the  long  indoor  days  that  were  coming.  It  was  a  moment  when 
he  could  feel  glad  of  his  profession. 

On  the  lawn  the  peach  tree  was  still  in  fruit  and  young  Hilda 
Aiken  was  taking  a  picture  of  it.  She  held  the  camera  tight  against 
her  chest.  She  wanted  the  sun  behind  her  but  she  did  not  want  her 
own  long  morning  shadow  in  the  foreground.  She  raised  the  camera 
but  that  did  not  help,  and  she  lowered  it  but  that  made  things  worse. 
She  twisted  her  body  to  the  left,  then  to  the  right.  In  the  end  she 
had  to  step  out  of  the  direct  line  of  the  sun.  At  last  she  snapped  the 
shutter  and  wound  the  film  with  intense  care. 

Howe,  watching  her  from  the  porch,  waited  for  her  to  finish  and 
called  good  morning.  She  turned,  startled,  and  almost  sullenly  low- 
ered her  glance.  In  the  year  Howe  had  lived  at  the  Aikens',  Hilda 
had  accepted  him  as  one  of  her  family,  but  since  his  absence  of  the 
summer  she  had  grown  shy.  Then  suddenly  she  lifted  her  head  and 
smiled  at  him,  and  the  humorous  smile  confirmed  his  pleasure  in 
the  day.  She  picked  up  her  bookbag  and  set  off  for  school. 

The  handsome  houses  on  the  streets  to  the  college  were  not  yet 
fully  awake  but  they  looked  very  friendly.  Howe  went  by  the  Bradby 
house  where  he  would  be  a  guest  this  evening  at  the  first  dinner-party 
of  the  year.  When  he  had  gone  the  length  of  the  picket  fence,  the 
whitest  in  town,  he  turned  back.  Along  the  path  there  was  a  fine 
row  of  asters  and  he  went  through  the  gate  and  picked  one  for  his 
buttonhole.  The  Bradbys  would  be  pleased  if  they  happened  to  see 
him  invading  their  lawn  and  the  knowledge  of  this  made  him  even 
more  comfortable. 

He  reached  the  campus  as  the  hour  was  striking.  The  students 

82 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  83 

were  hurrying  to  their  classes.  He  himself  was  in  no  hurry.  He 
stopped  at  his  dim  cubicle  of  an  office  and  lit  a  cigarette.  The  pros- 
pect of  facing  his  class  had  suddenly  presented  itself  to  him  and  his 
hands  were  cold,  the  lawful  seizure  of  power  he  was  about  to  make 
seemed  momentous.  Waiting  did  not  help.  He  put  out  his  cigarette 
picked  up  a  pad  and  theme  paper  and  went  to  his  classroom. 

As  he  entered,  the  rattle  of  voices  ceased  and  the  twenty-odd  fresh- 
men settled  themselves  and  looked  at  him  appraisingly.  Their  faces 
seemed  gross,  his  heart  sank  at  their  massed  impassivity,  but  he 
spoke  briskly. 

''My  name  is  Howe,"  he  said  and  turned  and  wrote  it  on  the 
blackboard.  The  carelessness  of  the  scrawl  confirmed  his  authority. 
He  went  on,  "My  office  is  412  Slemp  Hall  and  my  office-hours  are 
Monday,  Wednesday  and  Friday  from  eleven-thirty  to  twelve-thirty." 

He  wrote,  "M.,  W.,  F.,  11:30-12:30."  He  said,  "I'll  be  very  glad 
to  see  any  of  you  at  that  time.  Or  if  you  can't  come  then,  you  can 
arrange  with  me  for  some  other  time." 

He  turned  again  to  the  blackboard  and  spoke  over  his  shoulder. 
"The  text  for  the  course  is  Jarman's  Modern  Plays,  revised  edition. 
The  Co-op  has  it  in  stock."  He  wrote  the  name,  underlined  "revised 
edition"  and  waited  for  it  to  be  taken  down  in  the  new  notebooks. 

When  the  bent  heads  were  raised  again  he  began  his  speech  of 
prospectus.  "It  is  hard  to  explain—"  he  said,  and  paused  as  they 
composed  themselves.  "It  is  hard  to  explain  what  a  course  like  this 
is  intended  to  do.  We  are  going  to  try  to  learn  something  about 
modern  literature  and  something  about  prose  composition." 

As  he  spoke,  his  hands  warmed  and  he  was  able  to  look  directly 
at  the  class.  Last  year  on  the  first  day  the  faces  had  seemed  just  as 
cloddish,  but  as  the  term  wore  on  they  became  gradually  alive  and 
quite  likable.  It  did  not  seem  possible  that  the  same  thing  could 
happen  again. 

"I  shall  not  lecture  in  this  course,"  he  continued.  "Our  work  will 
be  carried  on  by  discussion  and  we  will  try  to  learn  by  an  exchange 
of  opinion.  But  you  will  soon  recognize  that  my  opinion  is  worth 
more  than  anyone  else's  here." 

He  remained  grave  as  he  said  it,  but  two  boys  understood  and 
laughed.  The  rest  took  permission  from  them  and  laughed  too.  All 
Howe's  private  ironies  protested  the  vulgarity  of  the  joke  but  the 
laughter  made  him  feel  benign  and  powerful. 

When  the  little  speech  was  finished,  Howe  picked  up  the  pad  of 
paper  he  had  brought.  He  announced  that  they  would  write  an  ex- 
temporaneous theme.  Its  subject  was  traditional,  "Who  I  am  and 


84  LIONEL  TRILLING 

why  I  came  to  D wight  College."  By  now  the  class  was  more  at  ease 
and  it  gave  a  ritualistic  groan  of  protest.  Then  there  was  a  stir  as 
fountain  pens  were  brought  out  and  the  writing  arms  of  the  chairs 
were  cleared  and  the  paper  was  passed  about.  At  last  all  the  heads 
bent  to  work  and  the  room  became  still. 

Howe  sat  idly  at  his  desk.  The  sun  shone  through  the  tall  clumsy 
windows.  The  cool  of  the  morning  was  already  passing.  There  was 
a  scent  of  autumn  and  of  varnish,  and  the  stillness  of  the  room  was 
deep  and  oddly  touching.  Now  and  then  a  student's  head  was  raised 
and  scratched  in  the  old  elaborate  students'  pantomime  that  calls 
the  teacher  to  witness  honest  intellectual  effort. 

Suddenly  a  tall  boy  stood  within  the  frame  of  the  open  door.  "Is 
this,"  he  said,  and  thrust  a  large  nose  into  a  college  catalogue,  "is 
this  the  meeting  place  of  English  lA?  The  section  instructed  by  Dr. 
Joseph  Howe?" 

He  stood  on  the  very  sill  of  the  door,  as  if  refusing  to  enter  until 
he  was  perfectly  sure  of  all  his  rights.  The  class  looked  up  from  work, 
found  him  absurd  and  gave  a  low  mocking  cheer. 

The  teacher  and  the  new  student,  with  equal  pointedness,  ignored 
the  disturbance.  Howe  nodded  to  the  boy,  who  pushed  his  head  for- 
ward and  then  jerked  it  back  in  a  wide  elaborate  arc  to  clear  his 
brow  of  a  heavy  lock  of  hair.  He  advanced  into  the  room  and  halted 
before  Howe,  almost  at  attention.  In  a  loud  clear  voice  he  an- 
nounced, "I  am  Tertan,  Ferdinand  R.,  reporting  at  the  direction  of 
Head  of  Department  Vincent." 

The  heraldic  formality  of  this  statement  brought  forth  another 
cheer.  Howe  looked  at  the  class  with  a  sternness  he  could  not  really 
feel,  for  there  was  indeed  something  ridiculous  about  this  boy. 
Under  his  displeased  regard  the  rows  of  heads  dropped  to  work 
again.  Then  he  touched  Tertan's  elbow,  led  him  up  to  the  desk  and 
stood  so  as  to  shield  their  conversation  from  the  class. 

"We  are  writing  an  extemporaneous  theme,"  he  said.  "The  sub- 
ject is,  'Who  I  am  and  why  I  came  to  Dwight  College'." 

He  stripped  a  few  sheets  from  the  pad  and  offered  them  to  the  boy. 
Tertan  hesitated  and  then  took  the  paper  but  he  held  it  only 
tentatively.  As  if  with  the  effort  of  making  something  clear,  he 
gulped,  and  a  slow  smile  fixed  itself  on  his  face.  It  was  at  once  know- 
ing and  shy. 

"Professor,"  he  said,  "to  be  perfectly  fair  to  my  classmates"— he 
made  a  large  gesture  over  the  room— "and  to  you"— he  inclined  his 
head  to  Howe— "this  would  not  be  for  me  an  extemporaneous  sub- 
ject." 


OF  THIS  TIME,  OF  THAT  PLACE  85 

Howe  tried  to  understand.  "You  mean  you've  already  thought 
about  it— you've  heard  we  always  give  the  same  subject?  That  doesn't 
matter." 

Again  the  boy  ducked  his  head  and  gulped.  It  was  the  gesture  of 
one  who  wishes  to  make  a  difficult  explanation  with  perfect  candor. 
"Sir,"  he  said,  and  made  the  distinction  with  great  care,  "the  topic 
I  did  not  expect  but  I  have  given  much  ratiocination  to  the  subject." 

Howe  smiled  and  said,  "I  don't  think  that's  an  unfair  advantage. 
Just  go  ahead  and  write." 

Tertan  narrowed  his  eyes  and  glanced  sidewise  at  Howe.  His 
strange  mouth  smiled.  Then  in  quizzical  acceptance,  he  ducked  his 
head,  threw  back  the  heavy  dank  lock,  dropped  into  a  seat  with  a 
great  loose  noise  and  began  to  write  rapidly. 

The  room  fell  silent  again  and  Howe  resumed  his  idleness.  When 
the  bell  rang,  the  students  who  had  groaned  when  the  task  had  been 
set  now  groaned  again  because  they  had  not  finished.  Howe  took  up 
the  papers  and  held  the  class  while  he  made  the  first  assignment. 
When  he  dismissed  it,  Tertan  bore  down  on  him,  his  slack  mouth 
held  ready  for  speech. 

"Some  professors,"  he  said,  "are  pedants.  They  are  Dryasdusts. 
However,  some  professors  are  free  souls  and  creative  spirits.  Kant, 
Hegel  and  Nietzsche  were  all  professors."  With  this  pronouncement 
he  paused.  "It  is  my  opinion,"  he  continued,  "that  you  occupy  the 
second  category." 

Howe  looked  at  the  boy  in  surprise  and  said  with  good-natured 
irony,  "With  Kant,  Hegel  and  Nietzsche?" 

Not  only  Tertan's  hand  and  head  but  his  whole  awkward  body 
waved  away  the  stupidity.  "It  is  the  kind  and  not  the  quantity  of  the 
kind,"  he  said  sternly. 

Rebuked,  Howe  said  as  simply  and  seriously  as  he  could,  "It 
would  be  nice  to  think  so."  He  added,  "Of  course  I  am  not  a  pro- 
fessor." 

This  was  clearly  a  disappointment  but  Tertan  met  it.  "In  the 
French  sense,"  he  said  with  composure.  "Generically,  a  teacher." 

Suddenly  he  bowed.  It  was  such  a  bow,  Howe  fancied,  as  a  stage- 
director  might  teach  an  actor  playing  a  medieval  student  who  takes 
leave  of  Abelard— stiff,  solemn,  with  elbows  close  to  the  body  and 
feet  together.  Then,  quite  as  suddenly,  he  turned  and  left. 

A  queer  fish,  and  as  soon  as  Howe  reached  his  office  he  sifted 
through  the  batch  of  themes  and  drew  out  Tertan's.  The  boy  had 
filled  many  sheets  with  his  unformed  headlong  scrawl.  "Who  am  I?" 
he  had  begun.  "Here,  in  a  mundane,  not  to  say  commercialized 


86  LIONEL  TRILLING 

academe,  is  asked  the  question  which  from  time  long  immemorably 
out  of  mind  has  accreted  doubts  and  thoughts  in  the  psyche  of  man 
to  pester  him  as  a  nuisance.  Whether  in  St.  Augustine  (or  Austin  as 
sometimes  called)  or  Miss  Bashkirtsieff  or  Frederic  Amiel  or  Em- 
pedocles,  or  in  less  lights  of  the  intellect  than  these,  this  posed  ques- 
tion has  been  ineluctable." 

Howe  took  out  his  pencil.  He  circled  "academe"  and  wrote 
"vocab."  in  the  margin.  He  underlined  "time  long  immemorably 
out  of  mind"  and  wrote  "Diction!"  But  this  seemed  inadequate  for 
what  was  wrong.  He  put  down  his  pencil  and  read  ahead  to  discover 
the  principle  of  error  in  the  theme.  "Today  as  ever,  in  spite  of 
gloomy  prophets  of  the  dismal  science  (economics)  the  question  is 
uninvalidated.  Out  of  the  starry  depths  of  heaven  hurtles  this  spear 
of  query  demanding  to  be  caught  on  the  shield  of  the  mind  ere  it 
pierces  the  skull  and  the  limbs  be  unstrung." 

Baffled  but  quite  caught,  Howe  read  on.  "Materialism,  by  which 
is  meant  the  philosophic  concept  and  not  the  moral  idea,  provides 
no  aegis  against  the  question  which  lies  beyond  the  tangible  (meta- 
physics). Existence  without  alloy  is  the  question  presented.  Environ- 
ment and  heredity  relegated  aside,  the  rags  and  old  clothes  of  prac- 
tical life  discarded,  the  name  and  the  instrumentality  of  livelihood 
do  not,  as  the  prophets  of  the  dismal  science  insist  on  in  this  con- 
nection, give  solution  to  the  interrogation  which  not  from  the  pro- 
fessor merely  but  veritably  from  the  cosmos  is  given.  I  think,  there- 
fore I  am  (cogito  etc.)  but  who  am  I?  Tertan  I  am,  but  what  is 
Tertan?  Of  this  time,  of  that  place,  of  some  parentage,  what  does  it 
matter?" 

Existence  without  alloy:  the  phrase  established  itself.  Howe  put 
aside  Tertan's  paper  and  at  random  picked  up  another.  "I  am 
Arthur  J.  Casebeer,  Jr.,"  he  read.  "My  father  is  Arthur  J.  Casebeer 
and  my  grandfather  was  Arthur  J.  Casebeer  before  him.  My  mother 
is  Nina  Wimble  Casebeer.  Both  of  them  are  college  graduates  and 
my  father  is  in  insurance.  I  was  born  in  St.  Louis  eighteen  years  ago 
and  we  still  make  our  residence  there." 

Arthur  J.  Casebeer,  who  knew  who  he  was,  was  less  interesting 
than  Tertan,  but  more  coherent.  Howe  picked  up  Tertan's  paper 
again.  It  was  clear  that  none  of  the  routine  marginal  comments,  no 
"sent,  str."  or  "punct."  or  "vocab."  could  cope  with  this  torrential 
rhetoric.  He  read  ahead,  contenting  himself  with  underscoring  the 
errors  against  the  time  when  he  should  have  the  necessary  "con- 
ference" with  Tertan. 

It  was  a  busy  and  official  day  of  cards  and  sheets,  arrangements  and 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  87 

small  decisions  and  it  gave  Howe  pleasure.  Even  when  it  was  time 
to  attend  the  first  of  the  weekly  Convocations  he  felt  the  charm  of  the 
beginning  of  things  when  intention  is  still  innocent  and  uncorrupted 
by  effort.  He  sat  among  the  young  instructors  on  the  platform  and 
joined  in  their  humorous  complaints  at  having  to  assist  at  the  cere- 
mony but  actually  he  got  a  clear  satisfaction  from  the  ritual  of 
prayer  and  prosy  speech  and  even  from  wearing  his  academic  gown. 
And  when  the  Convocation  was  over  the  pleasure  continued  as  he 
crossed  the  campus,  exchanging  greetings  with  men  he  had  not  seen 
since  the  spring.  They  were  people  who  did  not  yet,  and  perhaps 
never  would,  mean  much  to  him,  but  in  a  year  they  had  grown 
amiably  to  be  part  of  his  life.  They  were  his  fellow-townsmen. 

The  day  had  cooled  again  at  sunset  and  there  was  a  bright  chill 
in  the  September  twilight.  Howe  carried  his  voluminous  gown  over 
his  arm,  he  swung  his  doctoral  hood  by  its  purple  neckpiece  and  on 
his  head  he  wore  his  mortarboard  with  its  heavy  gold  tassel  bobbing 
just  over  his  eye.  These  were  the  weighty  and  absurd  symbols  of  his 
new  profession  and  they  pleased  him.  At  twenty-six  Joseph  Howe 
had  discovered  that  he  was  neither  so  well  off  nor  so  bohemian  as 
he  had  once  thought.  A  small  income,  adequate  when  supplemented 
by  a  sizable  cash  legacy,  was  genteel  poverty  when  the  cash  was  all 
spent.  And  the  literary  life— the  room  at  the  Lafayette  or  the  small 
apartment  without  a  lease,  the  long  summers  on  the  Cape,  the  long 
afternoons  and  the  social  evenings— began  to  weary  him.  His  writing 
filled  his  mornings  and  should  perhaps  have  filled  his  life,  yet  it  did 
not.  To  the  amusement  of  his  friends  and  with  a  certain  sense  that 
he  was  betraying  his  own  freedom,  he  had  used  the  last  of  his  legacy 
for  a  year  at  Harvard.  The  small  but  respectable  reputation  of  his 
two  volumes  of  verse  had  proved  useful— he  continued  at  Harvard 
on  a  fellowship  and  when  he  emerged  as  Dr.  Howe  he  received  an 
excellent  appointment,  with  prospects,  at  Dwight. 

He  had  his  moments  of  fear  when  all  that  had  ever  been  said  of 
the  dangers  of  the  academic  life  had  occurred  to  him.  But  after  a 
year  in  which  he  had  tested  every  possibility  of  corruption  and 
seduction  he  was  ready  to  rest  easy.  His  third  volume  of  verse,  most 
of  it  written  in  his  first  year  of  teaching,  was  not  only  ampler  but,  he 
thought,  better  than  its  predecessors. 

There  was  a  clear  hour  before  the  Bradby  dinner-party  and  Howe 
looked  forward  to  it.  But  he  was  not  to  enjoy  it,  for  lying  with  his 
mail  on  the  hall  table  was  a  copy  of  this  quarter's  issue  of  Life  and 
Letters^  to  which  his  landlord  subscribed.  Its  severe  cover  announced 
that  its  editor,  Frederic  Woolley,  had  this  month  contributed  an 


88  LIONEL  TRILLING 

essay  called  "Two  Poets,"  and  Howe,  picking  it  up,  curious  to  see 
who  the  two  poets  might  be,  felt  his  own  name  start  out  at  him  with 
cabalistic  power— Joseph  Howe.  As  he  continued  to  turn  the  pages 
his  hand  trembled. 

Standing  in  the  dark  hall,  holding  the  neat  little  magazine,  Howe 
knew  that  his  literary  contempt  for  Frederic  Woolley  meant  noth- 
ing, for  he  suddenly  understood  how  he  respected  Woolley  in  the 
way  of  the  world.  He  knew  this  by  the  trembling  of  his  hand.  And  of 
the  little  world  as  well  as  the  great,  for  although  the  literary  groups 
of  New  York  might  dismiss  Woolley,  his  name  carried  high  authority 
in  the  academic  world.  At  D wight  it  was  even  a  revered  name,  for  it 
had  been  here  at  the  college  that  Frederic  Woolley  had  made  the  dis- 
tinguished scholarly  career  from  which  he  had  gone  on  to  literary 
journalism.  In  middle  life  he  had  been  induced  to  take  the  editorship 
of  Life  and  Letters,  a  literary  monthly  not  widely  read  but  heavily 
endowed  and  in  its  pages  he  had  carried  on  the  defense  of  what  he 
sometimes  called  the  older  values.  He  was  not  without  wit,  he  had 
great  knowledge  and  considerable  taste  and  even  in  the  full  move- 
ment of  the  "new"  literature  he  had  won  a  certain  respect  for  his 
refusal  to  accept  it.  In  France,  even  in  England,  he  would  have  been 
connected  with  a  more  robust  tradition  of  conservatism,  but  Amer- 
ica gave  him  an  audience  not  much  better  than  genteel.  It  was 
known  in  the  college  that  to  the  subsidy  of  Life  and  Letters  the  Brad- 
bys  contributed  a  great  part. 

As  Howe  read,  he  saw  that  he  was  involved  in  nothing  less  than 
an  event.  When  the  Fifth  Series  of  Studies  in  Order  and  Value  came 
to  be  collected,  this  latest  of  Frederic  Woolley's  essays  would  not  be 
merely  another  step  in  the  old  direction.  Clearly  and  unmistakably, 
it  was  a  turning  point.  All  his  literary  life  Woolley  had  been  con- 
cerned with  the  relation  of  literature  to  mortality,  religion  and  the 
private  and  delicate  pieties  and  he  had  been  unalterably  opposed  to 
all  that  he  had  called  "inhuman  humanitarianism."  But  here,  sud- 
denly, dramatically  late,  he  had  made  an  about-face,  turning  to  the 
public  life  and  to  the  humanitarian  politics  he  had  so  long  despised. 
This  was  the  kind  of  incident  the  histories  of  literature  make  much 
of.  Frederic  Woolley  was  opening  for  himself  a  new  career  and 
winning  a  kind  of  new  youth.  He  contrasted  the  two  poets,  Thomas 
Wormser  who  was  admirable,  Joseph  Howe  who  was  almost  danger- 
ous. He  spoke  of  the  "precious  subjectivism"  of  Howe's  verse.  "In 
times  like  ours,"  he  wrote,  "with  millions  facing  penury  and  want, 
one  feels  that  the  qualities  of  the  tour  d'ivoire  are  well-nigh  in- 
human, nearly  insulting.  The  tour  d'ivoire  becomes  the  tour  d'ivresse 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  89 

and  it  is  not  self-intoxicated  poets  that  our  people  need."  The  essay 
said  more:  "The  problem  is  one  of  meaning.  I  am  not  ignorant  that 
the  creed  of  the  esoteric  poets  declares  that  a  poem  does  not  and 
should  not  mean  anything,  that  it  15  something.  But  poetry  is  what 
the  poet  makes  it,  and  if  he  is  a  true  poet  he  makes  what  his  society 
needs.  And  what  is  needed  now  is  the  tradition  in  which  Mr. 
Wormser  writes,  the  true  tradition  of  poetry.  The  Howes  do  no 
harm,  but  they  do  no  good  when  positive  good  is  demanded  of  all 
responsible  men.  Or  do  the  Howes  indeed  do  no  harm?  Perhaps 
Plato  would  have  said  they  do,  that  in  some  ways  theirs  is  the 
Phrygian  music  that  turns  men's  minds  from  the  struggle.  Certainly 
it  is  true  that  Thomas  Wormser  writes  in  the  lucid  Dorian  mode 
which  sends  men  into  battle  with  evil." 

It  was  easy  to  understand  why  Woolley  had  chosen  to  praise 
Thomas  Wormser.  The  long,  lilting  lines  of  Corn  Under  Willows 
hymned,  as  Woolley  put  it,  the  struggle  for  wheat  in  the  Iowa  fields 
and  expressed  the  real  lives  of  real  people.  But  why  out  of  the  dozen 
more  notable  examples  he  had  chosen  Howe's  little  volume  as  the 
example  of  "precious  subjectivism"  was  hard  to  guess.  In  a  way  it 
was  funny,  this  multiplication  of  himself  into  "the  Howes."  And  yet 
this  becoming  the  multiform  political  symbol  by  whose  creation 
Frederic  Woolley  gave  the  sign  of  a  sudden  new  life,  this  use  of  him 
as  a  sacrifice  whose  blood  was  necessary  for  the  rites  of  rejuvenation, 
made  him  feel  oddly  unclean. 

Nor  could  Howe  get  rid  of  a  certain  practical  resentment.  As  a 
poet  he  had  a  special  and  respectable  place  in  the  college  life.  But  it 
might  be  another  thing  to  be  marked  as  the  poet  of  a  wilful  and 
selfish  obscurity. 

As  he  walked  to  the  Bradbys'  Howe  was  a  little  tense  and  defen- 
sive. It  seemed  to  him  that  all  the  world  knew  of  the  "attack"  and 
agreed  with  it.  And  indeed  the  Bradbys  had  read  the  essay  but 
Professor  Bradby,  a  kind  and  pretentious  man,  said,  "I  see  my  old 
friend  knocked  you  about  a  bit,  my  boy,"  and  his  wife  Eugenia 
looked  at  Howe  with  her  childlike  blue  eyes  and  said,  "I  shall  scold 
Frederic  for  the  untrue  things  he  wrote  about  you.  You  aren't  the 
least  obscure."  They  beamed  at  him.  In  their  genial  snobbery  they 
seemed  to  feel  that  he  had  distinguished  himself.  He  was  the  leader 
of  Howeism.  He  enjoyed  the  dinner-party  as  much  as  he  had  thought 
he  would. 

And  in  the  following  days,  as  he  was  more  preoccupied  with  his 
duties,  the  incident  was  forgotten.  His  classes  had  ceased  to  be  mere 
groups.  Student  after  student  detached  himself  from  the  mass  and 


90  LIONEL  TRILLING 

required  or  claimed  a  place  in  Howe's  awareness.  Of  them  all  it  was 
Tertan  who  first  and  most  violently  signalled  his  separate  existence. 
A  week  after  classes  had  begun  Howe  saw  his  silhouette  on  the 
frosted  glass  of  his  office  door.  It  was  motionless  for  a  long  time, 
perhaps  stopped  by  the  problem  of  whether  or  not  to  knock  before 
entering.  Howe  called,  "Come  in!"  and  Tertan  entered  with  his 
shambling  stride. 

He  stood  beside  the  desk,  silent  and  at  attention.  When  Howe 
asked  him  to  sit  down,  he  responded  with  a  gesture  of  head  and 
hand  as  if  to  say  that  such  amenities  were  beside  the  point.  Never- 
theless he  did  take  the  chair.  He  put  his  ragged  crammed  briefcase 
between  his  legs.  His  face,  which  Howe  now  observed  fully  for  the 
first  time,  was  confusing,  for  it  was  made  up  of  florid  curves,  the 
nose  arched  in  the  bone  and  voluted  in  the  nostril,  the  mouth  loose 
and  soft  and  rather  moist.  Yet  the  face  was  so  thin  and  narrow  as  to 
seem  the  very  type  of  asceticism.  Lashes  of  unusual  length  veiled  the 
eyes  and,  indeed,  it  seemed  as  if  there  were  a  veil  over  the  whole 
countenance.  Before  the  words  actually  came,  the  face  screwed  itself 
into  an  attitude  of  preparation  for  them. 

"You  can  confer  with  me  now?"  Tertan  said. 

"Yes,  I'd  be  glad  to.  There  are  several  things  in  your  two  themes 
I  want  to  talk  to  you  about."  Howe  reached  for  the  packet  of  themes 
on  his  desk  and  sought  for  Tertan's.  But  the  boy  was  waving  them 
away. 

"These  are  done  perforce,"  he  said.  "Under  the.  pressure  of  your 
requirement.  They  are  not  significant,  mere  duties."  Again  his  great 
hand  flapped  vaguely  to  dismiss  his  themes.  He  leaned  forward  and 
gazed  at  his  teacher. 

"You  are,"  he  said,  "a  man  of  letters?  You  are  a  poet?"  It  was 
more  declaration  than  question. 

"I  should  like  to  think  so,"  Howe  said. 

At  first  Tertan  accepted  the  answer  with  a  show  of  appreciation, 
as  though  the  understatement  made  a  secret  between  himself  and 
Howe.  Then  he  chose  to  misunderstand.  With  his  shrewd  and  dis- 
concerting control  of  expression,  he  presented  to  Howe  a  puzzled 
grimace.  "What  does  that  mean?"  he  said. 

Howe  retracted  the  irony.  "Yes.  I  am  a  poet."  It  sounded  strange 
to  say. 

"That,"  Tertan  said,  "is  a  wonder."  He  corrected  himself  with 
his  ducking  head.  "I  mean  that  is  wonderful." 

Suddenly  he  dived  at  the  miserable  briefcase  between  his  legs,  put 
it  on  his  knees  and  began  to  fumble  with  the  catch,  all  intent  on 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  91 

the  difficulty  it  presented.  Howe  noted  that  his  suit  was  worn  thin, 
his  shirt  almost  unclean.  He  became  aware,  even,  of  a  vague  and 
musty  odor  of  garments  worn  too  long  in  unaired  rooms.  Tertan 
conquered  the  lock  and  began  to  concentrate  upon  a  search  into  the 
interior.  At  last  he  held  in  his  hand  what  he  was  after,  a  torn  and 
crumpled  copy  of  Life  and  Letters. 

"I  learned  it  from  here,"  he  said,  holding  it  out. 

Howe  looked  at  him  sharply,  his  hackles  a  little  up.  But  the  boy's 
face  was  not  only  perfectly  innocent,  it  even  shone  with  a  conscious 
admiration.  Apparently  nothing  of  the  import  of  the  essay  had 
touched  him  except  the  wonderful  fact  that  his  teacher  was  a  "man 
of  letters."  Yet  this  seemed  too  stupid  and  Howe,  to  test  it,  said,  "The 
man  who  wrote  that  doesn't  think  it's  wonderful." 

Tertan  made  a  moist  hissing  sound  as  he  cleared  his  mouth  of 
saliva.  His  head,  oddly  loose  on  his  neck,  wove  a  pattern  of  con- 
tempt in  the  air.  "A  critic,"  he  said,  "who  admits  prima  facie  that 
he  does  not  understand."  Then  he  said  grandly,  "It  is  the  inevitable 
fate." 

It  was  absurd,  yet  Howe  was  not  only  aware  of  the  absurdity  but 
of  a  tension  suddenly  and  wonderfully  relaxed.  Now  that  the 
"attack"  was  on  the  table  between  himself  and  this  strange  boy  and 
subject  to  the  boy's  funny  and  absolutely  certain  contempt,  the 
hidden  force  of  his  feeling  was  revealed  to  him  in  the  very  moment 
that  it  vanished.  All  unsuspected,  there  had  been  a  film  over  the 
world,  a  transparent  but  discoloring  haze  of  danger.  But  he  had  no 
time  to  stop  over  the  brightened  aspect  of  things.  Tertan  was  going 
on.  "I  also  am  a  man  of  letters.  Putative." 

"You  have  written  a  good  deal?"  Howe  meant  to  be  no  more  than 
polite  and  he  was  surprised  at  the  tenderness  he  heard  in  his  wrords. 

Solemnly  the  boy  nodded,  threw  back  the  dank  lock  and  sucked 
in  a  deep  anticipatory  breath.  "First,  a  work  of  homiletics,  which  is 
a  defense  of  the  principles  of  religious  optimism  against  the  pes- 
simism of  Schopenhauer  and  the  humanism  of  Nietzsche." 

"Humanism?  Why  do  you  call  it  humanism?" 

"It  is  my  nomenclature  for  making  a  deity  of  man,"  Tertan 
replied  negligently.  "Then  three  fictional  works,  novels.  And  numer- 
ous essays  in  science,  combating  materialism.  Is  it  your  duty  to  read 
these  if  I  bring  them  to  you?" 

Howe  answered  simply,  "No,  it  isn't  exactly  my  duty  but  I  shall 
be  happy  to  read  them." 

Tertan  stood  up  and  remained  silent.  He  rested  his  bag  on  the 
chair.  With  a  certain  compunction— for  it  did  not  seem  entirely 


92  LIONEL  TRILLING 

proper  that,  of  two  men  of  letters,  one  should  have  the  right  to  blue- 
pencil  the  other,  to  grade*  him  or  to  question  the  quality  of  his 
"sentence  structure"— Howe  reached  for  Tertan's  papers.  But  before 
he  could  take  them  up,  the  boy  suddenly  made  his  bow-to-Abelard, 
the  stiff  inclination  of  the  body  with  the  hands  seeming  to  emerge 
from  the  scholar's  gown.  Then  he  was  gone. 

But  after  his  departure  something  was  still  left  of  him.  The  timbre 
of  his  curious  sentences,  the  downright  finality  of  so  quaint  a  phrase 
as  "It  is  the  inevitable  fate"  still  rang  in  the  air.  Howe  gave  the 
warmth  of  his  feeling  to  the  new  visitor  who  stood  at  the  door  an- 
nouncing himself  with  a  genteel  clearing  of  the  throat. 

"Dr.  Howe,  I  believe?"  the  student  said.  A  large  hand  advanced 
into  the  room  and  grasped  Howe's  hand.  "Blackburn,  sir,  Theodore 
Blackburn,  vice-president  of  the  Student  Council.  A  great  pleasure, 
sir." 

Out  of  a  pair  of  ruddy  cheeks  a  pair  of  small  eyes  twinkled  good- 
naturedly.  The  large  face,  the  large  body  were  not  so  much  fat  as 
beefy  and  suggested  something  "typical,"  monk,  politician,  or  inn- 
keeper. 

Blackburn  took  the  seat  beside  Howe's  desk.  "I  may  have  seemed 
to  introduce  myself  in  my  public  capacity,  sir,"  he  said.  "But  it  is 
really  as  an  individual  that  I  came  to  see  you.  That  is  to  say,  as  one 
of  your  students  to  be." 

He  spoke  with  an  "English"  intonation  and  he  went  on,  "I  was 
once  an  English  major,  sir." 

For  a  moment  Howe  was  startled,  for  the  roast-beef  look  of  the 
boy  and  the  manner  of  his  speech  gave  a  second's  credibility  to  one 
sense  of  his  statement.  Then  the  collegiate  meaning  of  the  phrase 
asserted  itself,  but  some  perversity  made  Howe  say  what  was  not 
really  in  good  taste  even  with  so  forward  a  student,  "Indeed?  What 
regiment?" 

Blackburn  stared  and  then  gave  a  little  pouf-pouf  of  laughter.  He 
waved  the  misapprehension  away.  "Very  good,  sir.  It  certainly  is  an 
ambiguous  term."  He  chuckled  in  appreciation  of  Howe's  joke,  then 
cleared  his  throat  to  put  it  aside.  "I  look  forward  to  taking  your 
course  in  the  romantic  poets,  sir,"  he  said  earnestly.  "To  me  the 
romantic  poets  are  the  very  crown  of  English  literature." 

Howe  made  a  dry  sound,  and  the  boy,  catching  some  meaning  in 
it,  said,  "Little  as  I  know  them,  of  course.  But  even  Shakespeare  who 
is  so  dear  to  us  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  tradition  is  in  a  sense  but  the 
preparation  for  Shelley,  Keats  and  Byron.  And  Wadsworth." 

Almost  sorry  for  him,  Howe  dropped  his  eyes.  With  some  embar- 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT   PLACE  93 

rassment,  for  the  boy  was  not  actually  his  student,  he  said  softly, 
"Wordsworth." 

"Sir?" 

"Wordsworth,  not  Wadsworth.  You  said  Wadsworth." 

"Did  I,  sir?"  Gravely  he  shook  his  head  to  rebuke  himself  for  the 
error.  "Wordsworth,  of  course— slip  of  the  tongue."  Then,  quite  in 
command  again,  he  went  on.  "I  have  a  favor  to  ask  of  you,  Dr.  Howe. 
You  see,  I  began  my  college  course  as  an  English  major,"— he  smiled 
—"as  I  said." 

"Yes?" 

"But  after  my  first  year  I  shifted.  I  shifted  to  the  social  sciences. 
Sociology  and  government— I  find  them  stimulating  and  very  real." 
He  paused,  out  of  respect  for  reality.  "But  now  I  find  that  perhaps  I 
have  neglected  the  other  side." 

"The  other  side?"  Howe  said. 

"Imagination,  fancy,  culture.  A  well  rounded  man."  He  trailed 
off  as  if  there  were  perfect  understanding  between  them.  "And  so, 
sir,  I  have  decided  to  end  my  senior  year  with  your  course  in  the 
romantic  poets." 

His  voice  was  filled  with  an  indulgence  which  Howe  ignored  as 
he  said  flatly  and  gravely,  "But  that  course  isn't  given  until  the  spring 
term." 

"Yes,  sir,  and  that  is  where  the  favor  comes  in.  Would  you  let  me 
take  your  romantic  prose  course?  I  can't  take  it  for  credit,  sir,  my 
program  is  full,  but  just  for  background  it  seems  to  me  that  I  ought 
to  take  it.  I  do  hope,"  he  concluded  in  a  manly  way,  "that  you  will 
consent." 

"Well,  it's  no  great  favor,  Mr.  Blackburn.  You  can  come  if  you 
wish,  though  there's  not  much  point  in  it  if  you  don't  do  the 
reading." 

The  bell  rang  for  the  hour  and  Howe  got  up. 

"May  I  begin  with  this  class,  sir?"  Blackburn's  smile  was  candid 
and  boyish. 

Howe  nodded  carelessly  and  together,  silently,  they  walked  to  the 
classroom  down  the  hall.  When  they  reached  the  door  Howe  stood 
back  to  let  his  student  enter,  but  Blackburn  moved  adroitly  behind 
him  and  grasped  him  by  the  arm  to  urge  him  over  the  threshold. 
They  entered  together  with  Blackburn's  hand  firmly  on  Howe's 
biceps,  the  student  inducting  the  teacher  into  his  own  room.  Howe 
felt  a  surge  of  temper  rise  in  him  and  almost  violently  he  disengaged 
his  arm  and  walked  to  the  desk,  while  Blackburn  found  a  seat  in  the 
front  row  and  smiled  at  him. 


94  LIONEL  TRILLING 

II 

The  question  was,  At  whose  door  must  the  tragedy  be  laid? 

All  night  the  snow  had  fallen  heavily  and  only  now  was  abating 
in  sparse  little  flurries.  The  windows  were  valanced  high  with  white. 
It  was  very  quiet,  something  of  the  quiet  of  the  world  had  reached 
the  class  and  Howe  found  that  everyone  was  glad  to  talk  or  listen.  In 
the  room  there  was  a  comfortable  sense  of  pleasure  in  being  human. 

Casebeer  believed  that  the  blame  for  the  tragedy  rested  with 
heredity.  Picking  up  the  book  he  read,  "The  sins  of  the  fathers  are 
visited  on  their  children."  This  opinion  was  received  with  general 
favor.  Nevertheless  Johnson  ventured  to  say  that  the  fault  was  all 
Pastor  Manders'  because  the  Pastor  had  made  Mrs.  Alving  go  back 
to  her  husband  and  was  always  hiding  the  truth.  To  this  Hibbard 
objected  with  logic  enough,  "Well  then,  it  was  really  all  her  hus- 
band's fault.  He  did  all  the  bad  things."  De  Witt,  his  face  bright 
with  an  impatient  idea,  said  that  the  fault  was  all  society's.  "By 
society  I  don't  mean  upper-crust  society,"  he  said.  He  looked  around 
a  little  defiantly,  taking  in  any  members  of  the  class  who  might  be 
members  of  upper-crust  society.  "Not  in  that  sense.  I  mean  the 
social  unit." 

Howe  nodded  and  said,  "Yes,  of  course." 

"If  the  society  of  the  time  had  progressed  far  enough  in  science," 
De  Witt  went  on,  "then  there  would  be  no  problem  for  Mr.  Ibsen 
to  write  about.  Captain  Alving  plays  around  a  little,  gives  way  to 
perfectly  natural  biological  urges,  and  he  gets  a  social  disease,  a 
venereal  disease.  If  the  disease  is  cured,  no  problem.  Invent  salvarsan 
and  the  disease  is  cured.  The  problem  of  heredity  disappears  and  li'l 
Oswald  just  doesn't  get  paresis.  No  paresis,  no  problem— no  problem, 
no  play." 

This  was  carrying  the  ark  into  battle  and  the  class  looked  at 
De  Witt  with  respectful  curiosity.  It  was  his  usual  way  and  on  the 
whole  they  were  sympathetic  with  his  struggle  to  prove  to  Howe  that 
science  was  better  than  literature.  Still,  there  was  something  in  his 
reckless  manner  that  alienated  them  a  little. 

"Or  take  birth-control,  for  instance,"  De  Witt  went  on.  "If  Mrs. 
Alving  had  some  knowledge  of  contraception,  she  wouldn't  have  had 
to  have  li'l  Oswald  at  all.  No  li'l  Oswald,  no  play." 

The  class  was  suddenly  quieter.  In  the  back  row  Stettenhover 
swung  his  great  football  shoulders  in  a  righteous  sulking  gesture, 
first  to  the  right,  then  to  the  left.  He  puckered  his  mouth  ostenta- 
tiously. Intellect  was  always  ending  up  by  talking  dirty. 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  95 

Tertan's  hand  went  up  and  Howe  said,  "Mr.  Tertan."  The  boy 
shambled  to  his  feet  and  began  his  long  characteristic  gulp.  Howe 
made  a  motion  with  his  fingers,  as  small  as  possible,  and  Tertan 
ducked  his  head  and  smiled  in  apology.  He  sat  down.  The  class 
laughed.  With  more  than  half  the  term  gone,  Tertan  had  not  been 
able  to  remember  that  one  did  not  rise  to  speak.  He  seemed  unable 
to  carry  on  the  life  of  the  intellect  without  this  mark  of  respect  for 
it.  To  Howe  the  boy's  habit  of  rising  seemed  to  accord  with  the 
formal  shabbiness  of  his  dress.  He  never  wore  the  casual  sweaters 
and  jackets  of  his  classmates.  Into  the  free  and  comfortable  air  of  the 
college  classroom  he  brought  the  stuffy  sordid  strictness  of  some 
crowded  metropolitan  high  school. 

"Speaking  from  one  sense,"  Tertan  began  slowly,  "there  is  no 
blame  ascribable.  From  the  sense  of  determinism,  who  can  say  where 
the  blame  lies?  The  preordained  is  the  preordained  and  it  cannot  be 
said  without  rebellion  against  the  universe,  a  palpable  absurdity." 

In  the  back  row  Stettenhover  slumped  suddenly  in  his  seat,  his 
heels  held  out  before  him,  making  a  loud  dry  disgusted  sound.  His 
body  sank  until  his  neck  rested  on  the  back  of  his  chair.  He  folded 
his  hands  across  his  belly  and  looked  significantly  out  of  the  window, 
exasperated  not  only  with  Tertan  but  with  Howe,  with  the  class, 
with  the  whole  system  designed  to  encourage  this  kind  of  thing. 
There  was  a  certain  insolence  in  the  movement  and  Howe  flushed. 
As  Tertan  continued  to  speak,  Howe  stalked  casually  toward  the 
window  and  placed  himself  in  the  line  of  Stettenhover's  vision.  He 
stared  at  the  great  fellow,  who  pretended  not  to  see  him.  There  was 
so  much  power  in  the  big  body,  so  much  contempt  in  the  Greek- 
athlete  face  under  the  crisp  Greek-athlete  curls,  that  Howe  felt 
almost  physical  fear.  But  at  last  Stettenhover  admitted  him  to  focus 
and  under  his  disapproving  gaze  sat  up  with  slow  indifference.  His 
eyebrows  raised  high  in  resignation,  he  began  to  examine  his  hands. 
Howe  relaxed  and  turned  his  attention  back  to  Tertan. 

"Flux  of  existence,"  Tertan  was  saying,  "produces  all  things,  so 
that  judgment  wavers.  Beyond  the  phenomena,  what?  But  phenom- 
ena are  adumbrated  and  to  them  we  are  limited." 

Howe  saw  it  for  a  moment  as  perhaps  it  existed  in  the  boy's  mind 
—the  world  of  shadows  which  are  cast  by  a  great  light  upon  a  hidden 
reality  as  in  the  old  myth  of  the  Cave.  But  the  little  brush  with 
Stettenhover  had  tired  him  and  he  said  irritably,  "But  come  to  the 
point,  Mr.  Tertan." 

He  said  it  so  sharply  that  some  of  the  class  looked  at  him  curiously. 
For  three  months  he  had  gently  carried  Tertan  through  his  ver- 


96  LIONEL  TRILLING 

bosities,  to  the  vaguely  respectful  surprise  of  the  other  students,  who 
seemed  to  conceive  that  there  existed  between  this  strange  classmate 
and  their  teacher  some  special  understanding  from  which  they  were 
content  to  be  excluded.  Tertan  looked  at  him  mildly  and  at  once 
came  brilliantly  to  the  point.  "This  is  the  summation  of  the  play," 
he  said  and  took  up  his  book  and  read,  '  'Your  poor  father  never 
found  any  outlet  for  the  overmastering  joy  of  life  that  was  in  him. 
And  I  brought  no  holiday  into  his  home,  either.  Everything  seemed 
to  turn  upon  duty  and  I  am  afraid  I  made  your  poor  father's  home 
unbearable  to  him,  Oswald.'  Spoken  by  Mrs.  Alving." 

Yes,  that  was  surely  the  "summation"  of  the  play  and  Tertan  had 
hit  it,  as  he  hit,  deviously  and  eventually,  the  literary  point  of  almost 
everything.  But  now,  as  always,  he  was  wrapping  it  away  from  sight. 
"For  most  mortals,"  he  said,  "there  are  only  joys  of  biological 
urgings,  gross  and  crass,  such  as  the  sensuous  Captain  Alving.  For 
certain  few  there  are  the  transmutations  beyond  these  to  a  contem- 
plation of  the  utter  whole." 

Oh,  the  boy  was  mad.  And  suddenly  the  word,  used  in  hyperbole, 
intended  almost  for  the  expression  of  exasperated  admiration,  be- 
came literal.  Now  that  the  word  was  used,  it  became  simply  apparent 
to  Howe  that  Tertan  was  mad. 

It  was  a  monstrous  word  and  stood  like  a  bestial  thing  in  the  room. 
Yet  it  so  completely  comprehended  everything  that  had  puzzled 
Howe,  it  so  arranged  and  explained  what  for  three  months  had  been 
perplexing  him  that  almost  at  once  its  horror  became  domesticated. 
With  this  word  Howe  was  able  to  understand  why  he  had  never  been 
able  to  communicate  to  Tertan  the  value  of  a  single  criticism  or 
correction  of  his  wild,  verbose  themes.  Their  conferences  had  been 
frequent  and  long  but  had  done  nothing  to  reduce  to  order  the 
splendid  confusion  of  the  boy's  ideas.  Yet,  impossible  though  its 
expression  was,  Tertan's  incandescent  mind  could  always  strike  for 
a  moment  into  some  dark  corner  of  thought. 

And  now  it  was  suddenly  apparent  that  it  was  not  a  faulty  rhetoric 
that  Howe  had  to  contend  with.  With  his  new  knowledge  he  looked 
at  Tertan's  face  and  wondered  how  he  could  have  so  long  deceived 
himself.  Tertan  was  still  talking  and  the  class  had  lapsed  into  a  kind 
of  patient  unconsciousness,  a  coma  of  respect  for  words  which,  for  all 
that  most  of  them  knew,  might  be  profound.  Almost  with  a  suffusion 
of  shame,  Howe  believed  that  in  some  dim  way  the  class  had  long  ago 
had  some  intimation  of  Tertan's  madness.  He  reached  out  as  deci- 
sively as  he  could  to  seize  the  thread  of  Tertan's  discourse  before  it 
should  be  entangled  further. 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT   PLACE  97 

"Mr.  Tertan  says  that  the  blame  must  be  put  upon  whoever  kills 
the  joy  of  living  in  another.  We  have  been  assuming  that  Captain 
Alving  was  a  wholly  bad  man,  but  what  if  we  assume  that  he  became 
bad  only  because  Mrs.  Alving,  when  they  were  first  married,  acted 
toward  him  in  the  prudish  way  she  says  she  did?" 

It  was  a  ticklish  idea  to  advance  to  freshmen  and  perhaps  not 
profitable.  Not  all  of  them  were  following. 

"That  would  put  the  blame  on  Mrs.  Alving  herself,  whom  most 
of  you  admire.  And  she  herself  seems  to  think  so."  He  glanced  at 
his  watch.  The  hour  was  nearly  over.  "What  do  you  think,  Mr. 
De  Witt?" 

De  Witt  rose  to  the  idea,  he  wanted  to  know  if  society  couldn't 
be  blamed  for  educating  Mrs.  Alving's  temperament  in  the  wrong 
way.  Casebeer  was  puzzled,  Stettenhover  continued  to  look  at  his 
hands  until  the  bell  rang. 

Tertan,  his  brows  louring  in  thought,  was  making  as  always  for 
a  private  word.  Howe  gathered  his  books  and  papers  to  leave  quickly. 
At  this  moment  of  his  discovery  and  with  the  knowledge  still  raw,  he 
could  not  engage  himself  with  Tertan.  Tertan  sucked  in  his  breath 
to  prepare  for  speech  and  Howe  made  ready  for  the  pain  and  con- 
fusion. But  at  that  moment  Casebeer  detached  himself  from  the 
group  with  which  he  had  been  conferring  and  which  he  seemed  to 
represent.  His  constituency  remained  at  a  tactful  distance.  The  mis- 
sion involved  the  time  of  an  assigned  essay.  Casebeer's  presentation 
of  the  plea— it  was  based  on  the  freshmen's  heavy  duties  at  the  fra- 
ternities during  Carnival  Week— cut  across  Tertan's  preparations  for 
speech.  "And  so  some  of  us  fellows  thought,"  Casebeer  concluded 
with  heavy  solemnity,  "that  we  could  do  a  better  job,  give  our  minds 
to  it  more,  if  we  had  more  time." 

Tertan  regarded  Casebeer  with  mingled  curiosity  and  revulsion. 
Howe  not  only  said  that  he  would  postpone  the  assignment  but  went 
on  to  talk  about  the  Carnival  and  even  drew  the  waiting  constituency 
into  the  conversation.  He  was  conscious  of  Tertan's  stern  and  aston- 
ished stare,  then  of  his  sudden  departure. 

Now  that  the  fact  was  clear,  Howe  knew  that  he  must  act  on  it.  His 
course  was  simple  enough.  He  must  lay  the  case  before  the  Dean. 
Yet  he  hesitated.  His  feeling  for  Tertan  must  now,  certainly,  be  in 
some  way  invalidated.  Yet  could  he,  because  of  a  word,  hurry  to 
assign  to  official  and  reasonable  solicitude  what  had  been,  until  this 
moment,  so  various  and  warm?  He  could  at  least  delay  and,  by  mov- 
ing slowly,  lend  a  poor  grace  to  the  necessary,  ugly  act  of  making 
his  report. 


98  LIONEL  TRILLING 

It  was  with  some  notion  of  keeping  the  matter  in  his  own  hands 
that  he  went  to  the  Dean's  office  to  look  up  Tertan's  records.  In  the 
outer  office  the  Dean's  secretary  greeted  him  brightly  and  at  his  re- 
quest brought  him  the  manila  folder  with  the  small  identifying 
photograph  pasted  in  the  corner.  She  laughed.  "He  was  looking  for 
the  birdie  in  the  wrong  place,"  she  said. 

Howe  leaned  over  her  shoulder  to  look  at  the  picture.  It  was  as  bad 
as  all  the  Dean's-office  photographs  were,  but  it  differed  from  all  that 
Howe  had  ever  seen.  Tertan,  instead  of  looking  into  the  camera,  as 
no  doubt  he  had  been  bidden,  had,  at  the  moment  of  exposure, 
turned  his  eyes  upward.  His  mouth,  as  though  conscious  of  the  trick 
played  on  the  photographer,  had  the  sly  superior  look  that  Howe 
knew. 

The  secretary  was  fascinated  by  the  picture.  "What  a  funny  boy," 
she  said.  "He  looks  like  Tartuffe!" 

And  so  he  did,  with  the  absurd  piety  of  the  eyes  and  the  conscious 
slyness  of  the  mouth  and  the  whole  face  bloated  by  the  bad  lens. 

"Is  he  like  that?"  the  secretary  said. 

"Like  Tartuffe?  No." 

From  the  photograph  there  was  little  enough  comfort  to  be  had. 
The  records  themselves  gave  no  clue  to  madness,  though  they  sug- 
gested sadness  enough.  Howe  read  of  a  father,  Stanislaus  Tertan, 
born  in  Budapest  and  trained  in  engineering  in  Berlin,  once  em- 
ployed by  the  Hercules  Chemical  Corporation— this  was  one  of 
the  factories  that  dominated  the  sound  end  of  the  town— but  now 
without  employment.  He  read  of  a  mother  Erminie  (Youngfellow) 
Tertan,  born  in  Manchester,  educated  at  a  Normal  School  at  Leeds, 
now  housewife  by  profession.  The  family  lived  on  Greenbriar  Street 
which  Howe  knew  as  a  row  of  once  elegant  homes  near  what  was 
now  the  factory  district.  The  old  mansions  had  long  ago  been  divided 
into  small  and  primitive  apartments.  Of  Ferdinand  himself  there  was 
little  to  learn.  He  lived  with  his  parents,  had  attended  a  Detroit  high 
school  and  had  transferred  to  the  local  school  in  his  last  year.  His 
rating  for  intelligence,  as  expressed  in  numbers,  was  high,  his  scholas- 
tic record  was  remarkable,  he  held  a  college  scholarship  for  his 
tuition. 

Howe  laid  the  folder  on  the  secretary's  desk.  "Did  you  find  what 
you  wanted  to  know?"  she  asked. 

The  phrases  from  Tertan's  momentous  first  theme  came  back  to 
him.  "Tertan  I  am,  but  what  is  Tertan?  Of  this  time,  of  that  place, 
of  some  parentage,  what  does  it  matter?" 

"No,  I  didn't  find  it,"  he  said. 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  99 

Now  that  he  had  consulted  the  sad  half-meaningless  record  he 
knew  all  the  more  firmly  that  he  must  not  give  the  matter  out  of  his 
own  hands.  He  must  not  release  Tertan  to  authority.  Not  that  he 
anticipated  from  the  Dean  anything  but  the  greatest  kindness  for 
Tertan.  The  Dean  would  have  the  experience  and  skill  which  he 
himself  could  not  have.  One  way  or  another  the  Dean  could  answer 
the  question,  "What  is  Tertan?"  Yet  this  was  precisely  what  he 
feared.  He  alone  could  keep  alive— not  forever  but  for  a  somehow 
important  time— the  question,  "What  is  Tertan?"  He  alone  could 
keep  it  still  a  question.  Some  sure  instinct  told  him  that  he  must  not 
surrender  the  question  to  a  clean  official  desk  in  a  clear  official  light 
to  be  dealt  with,  settled  and  closed. 

He  heard  himself  saying,  "Is  the  Dean  busy  at  the  moment?  I'd 
like  to  see  him." 

His  request  came  thus  unbidden,  even  forbidden,  and  it  was  one 
of  the  surprising  and  startling  incidents  of  his  life.  Later,  when  he 
reviewed  the  events,  so  disconnected  in  themselves  or  so  merely  odd, 
of  the  story  that  unfolded  for  him  that  year,  it  was  over  this  moment, 
on  its  face  the  least  notable,  that  he  paused  longest.  It  was  fre- 
quently to  be  with  fear  and  never  without  a  certainty  of  its  meaning 
in  his  own  knowledge  of  himself  that  he  would  recall  this  simple, 
routine  request  and  the  feeling  of  shame  and  freedom  it  gave  him  as 
he  sent  everything  down  the  official  chute.  In  the  end,  of  course,  no 
matter  what  he  did  to  "protect"  Tertan,  he  would  have  had  to  make 
the  same  request  and  lay  the  matter  on  the  Dean's  clean  desk.  But 
it  would  always  be  a  landmark  of  his  life  that,  at  the  very  moment 
when  he  was  rejecting  the  official  way,  he  had  been,  without  will  or 
intention,  so  gladly  drawn  to  it. 

After  the  storm's  last  delicate  flurry,  the  sun  had  come  out.  Re- 
flected by  the  new  snow,  it  filled  the  office  with  a  golden  light  which 
was  almost  musical  in  the  way  it  made  all  the  commonplace  objects 
of  efficiency  shine  with  a  sudden  sad  and  noble  significance.  And  the 
light,  now  that  he  noticed  it,  made  the  utterance  of  his  perverse  and 
unwanted  request  even  more  momentous. 

The  secretary  consulted  the  engagement  pad.  "He'll  be  free  any 
minute.  Don't  you  want  to  wait  in  the  parlor?" 

She  threw  open  the  door  of  the  large  and  pleasant  room  in  which 
the  Dean  held  his  Committee  meetings  and  in  which  his  visitors 
waited.  It  was  designed  with  a  homely  elegance  on  the  masculine 
side  of  the  eighteenth  century  manner.  There  was  a  small  coal-fire 
in  the  grate  and  the  handsome  mahogany  table  was  strewn  with 
books  and  magazines.  The  large  windows  gave  on  the  snowy  lawn 


ioo  LIONEL  TRILLING 

and  there  was  such  a  fine  width  of  window  that  the  white  casements 
and  walls  seemed  at  this  moment  but  a  continuation  of  the  snow,  the 
snow  but  an  extension  of  casement  and  walls.  The  outdoors  seemed 
taken  in  and  made  safe,  the  indoors  seemed  luxuriously  freshened 
and  expanded. 

Howe  sat  down  by  the  fire  and  lighted  a  cigarette.  The  room  had 
its  intended  effect  upon  him.  He  felt  comfortable  and  relaxed,  yet 
nicely  organized,  some  young  diplomatic  agent  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, the  newly  fledged  Swift  carrying  out  Sir  William  Temple's 
business.  The  rawness  of  Tertan's  case  quite  vanished.  He  crossed 
his  legs  and  reached  for  a  magazine. 

It  was  that  famous  issue  of  Life  and  Letters  that  his  idle  hand  had 
found  and  his  blood  raced  as  he  sifted  through  it  and  the  shape  of 
his  own  name,  Joseph  Howe,  sprang  out  at  him,  still  cabalistic  in  its 
power.  He  tossed  the  magazine  back  on  the  table  as  the  door  of  the 
Dean's  office  opened  and  the  Dean  ushered  out  Theodore  Blackburn. 

"Ah,  Joseph!"  the  Dean  said. 

Blackburn  said,  "Good  morning,  Doctor."  Howe  winced  at  the 
title  and  caught  the  flicker  of  amusement  over  the  Dean's  face.  The 
Dean  stood  with  his  hand  high  on  the  door-jamb  and  Blackburn, 
still  in  the  doorway,  remained  standing  almost  under  his  long  arm. 

Howe  nodded  briefly  to  Blackburn,  snubbing  his  eager  deference. 
"Can  you  give  me  a  few  minutes?"  he  said  to  the  Dean. 

"All  the  time  you  want.  Come  in."  Before  the  two  men  could 
enter  the  office,  Blackburn  claimed  their  attention  with  a  long  full 
"Er."  As  they  turned  to  him,  Blackburn  said,  "Can  you  give  me  a 
few  minutes,  Dr.  Howe?"  His  eyes  sparkled  at  the  little  audacity  he 
had  committed,  the  slightly  impudent  play  with  hierarchy.  Of  the 
three  of  them  Blackburn  kept  himself  the  lowest,  but  he  reminded 
Howe  of  his  subaltern  relation  to  the  Dean. 

"I  mean,  of  course,"  Blackburn  went  on  easily,  "when  you've 
finished  with  the  Dean." 

"I'll  be  in  my  office  shortly,"  Howe  said,  turned  his  back  on  the 
ready  "Thank  you,  sir,"  and  followed  the  Dean  into  the  inner  room. 

"Energetic  boy,"  said  the  Dean.  "A  bit  beyond  himself  but  very 
energetic.  Sit  down." 

The  Dean  lighted  a  cigarette,  leaned  back  in  his  chair,  sat  easy 
and  silent  for  a  moment,  giving  Howe  no  signal  to  go  ahead  with 
business.  He  was  a  young  Dean,  not  much  beyond  forty,  a  tall  hand- 
some man  with  sad,  ambitious  eyes.  He  had  been  a  Rhodes  scholar. 
His  friends  looked  for  great  things  from  him  and  it  was  generally  said 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  101 

that  he  had  notions  of  education  which  he  was  not  yet  ready  to  try  to 
put  into  practice. 

His  relaxed  silence  was  meant  as  a  compliment  to  Howe.  He 
smiled  and  said,  "What's  the  business,  Joseph?" 

"Do  you  know  Tertan— Ferdinand  Tertan,  a  freshman?" 

The  Dean's  cigarette  was  in  his  mouth  and  his  hands  were  clasped 
behind  his  head.  He  did  not  seem  to  search  his  memory  for  the  name. 
He  said,  "What  about  him?" 

Clearly  the  Dean  knew  something  and  he  was  waiting  for  Howe 
to  tell  him  more.  Howe  moved  only  tentatively.  Now  that  he  was 
doing  what  he  had  resolved  not  to  do,  he  felt  more  guilty  at  having 
been  so  long  deceived  by  Tertan  and  more  need  to  be  loyal  to  his 
error. 

"He's  a  strange  fellow,"  he  ventured.  He  said  stubbornly,  "In  a 
strange  way  he's  very  brilliant."  He  concluded,  "But  very  strange." 

The  springs  of  the  Dean's  swivel  chair  creaked  as  he  came  out  of 
his  sprawl  and  leaned  forward  to  Howe.  "Do  you  mean  he's  so 
strange  that  it's  something  you  could  give  a  name  to?" 

Howe  looked  at  him  stupidly.  "What  do  you  mean?"  he  said. 

"What's  his  trouble?"  the  Dean  said  more  neutrally. 

"He's  very  brilliant,  in  a  way.  I  looked  him  up  and  he  has  a  top 
intelligence  rating.  But  somehow,  and  it's  hard  to  explain  just  how, 
what  he  says  is  always  on  the  edge  of  sense  and  doesn't  quite 
make  it." 

The  Dean  looked  at  him  and  Howe  flushed  up.  The  Dean  had 
surely  read  Woolley  on  the  subject  of  "the  Howes"  and  the  tour 
d'ivresse.  Was  that  quick  glance  ironical? 

The  Dean  picked  up  some  papers  from  his  desk  and  Howe  could 
see  that  they  were  in  Tertan's  impatient  scrawl.  Perhaps  the  little 
gleam  in  the  Dean's  glance  had  come  only  from  putting  facts  to- 
gether. 

"He  sent  me  this  yesterday,"  the  Dean  said.  "After  an  interview  I 
had  with  him.  I  haven't  been  able  to  do  more  than  glance  at  it. 
When  you  said  what  you  did,  I  realized  there  was  something  wrong." 

Twisting  his  mouth,  the  Dean  looked  over  the  letter.  "You  seem 
to  be  involved,"  he  said  without  looking  up.  "By  the  way,  what  did 
you  give  him  at  mid-term?" 

Flushing,  setting  his  shoulders,  Howe  said  firmly,  "I  gave  him 
A-minus." 

The  Dean  chuckled.  "Might  be  a  good  idea  if  some  of  our  nicer 
boys  went  crazy— just  a  little."  He  said,  "Well,"  to  conclude  the 


102  LIONEL  TRILLING 

matter  and  handed  the  papers  to  Howe.  "See  if  this  is  the  same  thing 
you've  been  finding.  Then  we  can  go  into  the  matter  again." 

Before  the  fire  in  the  parlor,  in  the  chair  that  Howe  had  been 
occupying,  sat  Blackburn.  He  sprang  to  his  feet  as  Howe  entered. 

"I  said  my  office,  Mr.  Blackburn."  Howe's  voice  was  sharp.  Then 
he  was  almost  sorry  for  the  rebuke,  so  clearly  and  naively  did  Black- 
burn seem  to  relish  his  stay  in  the  parlor,  close  to  authority. 

"I'm  in  a  bit  of  a  hurry,  sir,"  he  said,  "and  I  did  want  to  be  sure  to 
speak  to  you,  sir." 

He  was  really  absurd,  yet  fifteen  years  from  now  he  would  have 
grown  up  to  himself,  to  the  assurance  and  mature  beefiness.  In  banks, 
in  consular  offices,  in  brokerage  firms,  on  the  bench,  more  seriously 
affable,  a  little  sterner,  he  would  make  use  of  his  ability  to  be  admin- 
istered by  his  job.  It  was  almost  reassuring.  Now  he  was  exercising 
his  too-great  skill  on  Howe.  "I  owe  you  an  apology,  sir,"  he  said. 

Howe  knew  that  he  did  but  he  showed  surprise. 

"I  mean,  Doctor,  after  your  having  been  so  kind  about  letting  me 
attend  your  class,  I  stopped  coming."  He  smiled  in  deprecation. 
"Extra-curricular  activities  take  up  so  much  of  my  time.  I'm  afraid 
I  undertook  more  than  I  could  perform." 

Howe  had  noticed  the  absence  and  had  been  a  little  irritated  by 
it  after  Blackburn's  elaborate  plea.  It  was  an  absence  that  might  be 
interpreted  as  a  comment  on  the  teacher.  But  there  was  only  one 
way  for  him  to  answer.  "You've  no  need  to  apologize,"  he  said.  "It's 
wholly  your  affair." 

Blackburn  beamed.  "I'm  so  glad  you  feel  that  way  about  it,  sir. 
I  was  worried  you  might  think  I  had  stayed  away  because  I  was 
influenced  by "  He  stopped  and  lowered  his  eyes. 

Astonished,  Howe  said,  "Influenced  by  what?" 

"Well,  by "  Blackburn  hesitated  and  for  answer  pointed  to  the 

table  on  which  lay  the  copy  of  Life  and  Letters.  Without  looking  at 
it,  he  knew  where  to  direct  his  hand.  "By  the  unfavorable  publicity, 
sir."  He  hurried  on.  "And  that  brings  me  to  another  point,  sir.  I  am 
vice-president  of  Quill  and  Scroll,  sir,  the  student  literary  society, 
and  I  wonder  if  you  would  address  us.  You  could  read  your  own 
poetry,  sir,  and  defend  your  own  point  of  view.  It  would  be  very 
interesting." 

It  was  truly  amazing.  Howe  looked  long  and  cruelly  into  Black- 
burn's face,  trying  to  catch  the  secret  of  the  mind  that  could  have 
conceived  this  way  of  manipulating  him,  this  way  so  daring  and  inept 
—but  not  entirely  inept— with  its  malice  so  without  malignity.  The 
face  did  not  yield  its  secret.  Howe  smiled  broadly  and  said,  "Of 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  103 

course  I  don't  think  you  were  influenced  by  the  unfavorable  pub- 
licity." 

"I'm  still  going  to  take— regularly,  for  credit— your  romantic  poets 
course  next  term,"  Blackburn  said. 

"Don't  worry,  my  dear  fellow,  don't  worry  about  it." 
Howe  started  to  leave  and  Blackburn  stopped  him  with,   "But 
about  Quill,  sir?" 

"Suppose  we  wait  until  next  term?  I'll  be  less  busy  then." 
And  Blackburn  said,  "Very  good,  sir,  and  thank  you." 
In  his  office  the  little  encounter  seemed  less  funny  to  Howe,  was 
even  in  some  indeterminate  way  disturbing.  He  made  an  effort  to 
put  it  from  his  mind  by  turning  to  what  was  sure  to  disturb  him 
more,  the  Tertan  letter  read  in  the  new  interpretation.  He  found 
what  he  had  always  found,  the  same  florid  leaps  beyond  fact  and 
meaning,  the  same  headlong  certainty.  But  as  his  eye  passed  over  the 
familiar  scrawl  it  caught  his  own  name  and  for  the  second  time  that 
hour  he  felt  the  race  of  his  blood. 

"The  Paraclete,"  Tertan  had  written  to  the  Dean,  "from  a  Greek 
word  meaning  to  stand  in  place  of,  but  going  beyond  the  primitive 
idea  to  mean  traditionally  the  helper,  the  one  who  comforts  and 
assists,  cannot  without  fundamental  loss  be  jettisoned.  Even  if  taken 
no  longer  in  the  supernatural  sense,  the  concept  remains  deeply  in 
the  human  consciousness  inevitably.  Humanitarianism  is  no  reply, 
for  not  every  man  stands  in  the  place  of  every  other  man  for  this 
other's  comrade  comfort.  But  certain  are  chosen  out  of  the  human 
race  to  be  the  consoler  of  some  other.  Of  these,  for  example,  is 
Joseph  Barker  Howe,  Ph.D.  Of  intellects  not  the  first  yet  of  true 
intellect  and  lambent  instructions,  given  to  that  which  is  intuitive 
and  irrational,  not  to  what  is  logical  in  the  strict  word,  what  is  judged 
by  him  is  of  the  heart  and  not  the  head.  Here  is  one  chosen,  in  that 
he  chooses  himself  to  stand  in  the  place  of  another  for  comfort  and 
consolation.  To  him  more  than  another  I  give  my  gratitude,  with  all 
respect  to  our  Dean  who  reads  this,  a  noble  man,  but  merely  dedi- 
cated, not  consecrated.  But  not  in  the  aspect  of  the  Paraclete  only 
is  Dr.  Joseph  Barker  Howe  established,  for  he  must  be  the  Paraclete 
to  another  aspect  of  himself,  that  which  is  driven  and  persecuted  by 
the  lack  of  understanding  in  the  world  at  large,  so  that  he  in  himself 
embodies  the  full  history  of  man's  tribulations  and,  overflowing 
upon  others,  notably  the  present  writer,  is  the  ultimate  end." 

This  was  love.  There  was  no  escape  from  it.  Try  as  Howe  might 
to  remember  that  Tertan  was  mad  and  all  his  emotions  invalidated, 
he  could  not  destroy  the  effect  upon  him  of  his  student's  stern, 


104  LIONEL  TRILLING 

affectionate  regard.  He  had  betrayed  not  only  a  power  of  mind  but 
a  power  of  love.  And  however  firmly  he  held  before  his  attention  the 
fact  of  Tertan's  madness,  he  could  do  nothing  to  banish  the  physical 
sensation  of  gratitude  he  felt.  He  had  never  thought  of  himself  as 
"driven  and  persecuted"  and  he  did  not  now.  But  still  he  could  not 
make  meaningless  his  sensation  of  gratitude.  The  pitiable  Tertan 
sternly  pitied  him,  and  comfort  came  from  Tertan's  never-to-be- 
comforted  mind. 


Ill 

In  an  academic  community,  even  an  efficient  one,  official  matters 
move  slowly.  The  term  drew  to  a  close  with  no  action  in  the  case  of 
Tertan,  and  Joseph  Howe  had  to  confront  a  curious  problem.  How 
should  he  grade  his  strange  student,  Tertan? 

Tertan's  final  examination  had  been  no  different  from  all  his  other 
writing,  and  what  did  one  "give"  such  a  student?  De  Witt  must  have 
his  A,  that  was  clear.  Johnson  would  get  a  B.  With  Casebeer  it  was  a 
question  of  a  B-minus  or  a  C-plus,  and  Stettenhover,  who  had  been 
crammed  by  the  team  tutor  to  fill  half  a  blue-book  with  his  thin 
feminine  scrawl,  would  have  his  C-minus  which  he  would  accept  with 
mingled  indifference  and  resentment.  But  with  Tertan  it  was  not 
so  easy. 

The  boy  was  still  in  the  college  process  and  his  name  could  not  be 
omitted  from  the  grade  sheet.  Yet  what  should  a  mind  under  sus- 
picion of  madness  be  graded?  Until  the  medical  verdict  was  given,  it 
was  for  Howe  to  continue  as  Tertan's  teacher  and  to  keep  his  judg- 
ment pedagogical.  Impossible  to  give  him  an  F:  he  had  not  failed. 
B  was  for  Johnson's  stolid  mediocrity.  He  could  not  be  put  on  the 
edge  of  passing  with  Stettenhover,  for  he  exactly  did  not  pass.  In 
energy  and  richness  of  intellect  he  was  perhaps  even  De  Witt's 
superior,  and  Howe  toyed  grimly  with  the  notion  of  giving  him  an 
A,  but  that  would  lower  the  value  of  the  A  De  Witt  had  won  with 
his  beautiful  and  clear,  if  still  arrogant,  mind.  There  was  a  notation 
which  the  Registrar  recognized— Inc.  for  Incomplete  and  in  the  hor- 
rible comedy  of  the  situation,  Howe  considered  that.  But  really  only 
a  mark  of  M  for  Mad  would  serve. 

In  his  perplexity,  Howe  sought  the  Dean,  but  the  Dean  was  out 
of  town.  In  the  end,  he  decided  to  maintain  the  A-minus  he  had 
given  Tertan  at  midterm.  After  all,  there  had  been  no  falling  away 
from  that  quality.  He  entered  it  on  the  grade  sheet  with  something 
like  bravado. 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  105 

Academic  time  moves  quickly.  A  college  year  is  not  really  a  year, 
lacking  as  it  does  three  months.  And  it  is  endlessly  divided  into  units 
which,  at  their  beginning,  appear  larger  than  they  are— terms,  half- 
terms,  months,  weeks.  And  the  ultimate  unit,  the  hour,  is  not  really 
an  hour,  lacking  as  it  does  ten  minutes.  And  so  the  new  term  ad- 
vanced rapidly  and  one  day  the  fields  about  the  town  were  all  brown, 
cleared  of  even  the  few  thin  patches  of  snow  which  had  lingered  so 
long. 

Howe,  as  he  lectured  on  the  romantic  poets,  became  conscious  of 
Blackburn  emanating  wrath.  Blackburn  did  it  well,  did  it  with  enor- 
mous dignity.  He  did  not  stir  in  his  seat,  he  kept  his  eyes  fixed  on 
Howe  in  perfect  attention,  but  he  abstained  from  using  his  note- 
book, there  was  no  mistaking  what  he  proposed  to  himself  as  an  atti- 
tude. His  elbow  on  the  writing-wing  of  the  chair,  his  chin  on  the 
curled  fingers  of  his  hand,  he  was  the  embodiment  of  intellectual  in- 
dignation. He  was  thinking  his  own  thoughts,  would  give  no  public 
offence,  yet  would  claim  his  due,  was  not  to  be  intimidated.  Howe 
knew  that  he  would  present  himself  at  the  end  of  the  hour. 

Blackburn  entered  the  office  without  invitation.  He  did  not  smile, 
there  was  no  cajolery  about  him.  Without  invitation  he  sat  down  be- 
side Howe's  desk.  He  did  not  speak  until  he  had  taken  the  blue-book 
from  his  pocket.  He  said,  "What  does  this  mean,  sir?" 

It  was  a  sound  and  conservative  student  tactic.  Said  in  the  usual 
way  it  meant,  "How  could  you  have  so  misunderstood  me?"  or 
"What  does  this  mean  for  my  future  in  the  course?"  But  there  were 
none  of  the  humbler  tones  in  Blackburn's  way  of  saying  it. 

Howe  made  the  established  reply,  "I  think  that's  for  you  to  tell 
me. 

Blackburn  continued  icy.  "I'm  sure  I  can't,  sir." 

There  was  a  silence  between  them.  Both  dropped  their  eyes  to  the 
blue-book  on  the  desk.  On  its  cover  Howe  had  pencilled:  "F.  This  is 
very  poor  work." 

Howe  picked  up  the  blue-book.  There  was  always  the  possibility 
of  injustice.  The  teacher  may  be  bored  by  the  mass  of  papers  and  not 
wholly  attentive.  A  phrase,  even  the  student's  handwriting,  may  irri- 
tate him  unreasonably.  "Well,"  said  Howe,  "let's  go  through  it." 

He  opened  the  first  page.  "Now  here:  you  write,  'In  "The  Ancient 
Mariner,"  Coleridge  lives  in  and  transports  us  to  a  honey-sweet 
world  where  all  is  rich  and  strange,  a  world  of  charm  to  which  we  can 
escape  from  the  humdrum  existence  of  our  daily  lives,  the  world  of 
romance.  Here,  in  this  warm  and  honey-sweet  land  of  charming 
dreams  we  can  relax  and  enjoy  ourselves.'  " 


106  LIONEL  TRILLING 

Howe  lowered  the  paper  and  waited  with  a  neutral  look  for  Black- 
burn to  speak.  Blackburn  returned  the  look  boldly,  did  not  speak,  sat 
stolid  and  lofty.  At  last  Howe  said,  speaking  gently,  "Did  you  mean 
that,  or  were  you  just  at  a  loss  for  something  to  say?" 

"You  imply  that  I  was  just  'bluffing'?"  The  quotation  marks  hung 
palpable  in  the  air  about  the  word. 

"I'd  like  to  know.  I'd  prefer  believing  that  you  were  bluffing  to 
believing  that  you  really  thought  this." 

Blackburn's  eyebrows  went  up.  From  the  height  of  a  great  and 
firm-based  idea  he  looked  at  his  teacher.  He  clasped  the  crags  for  a 
moment  and  then  pounced,  craftily,  suavely.  "Do  you  mean,  Dr. 
Howe,  that  there  aren't  two  opinions  possible?" 

It  was  superbly  done  in  its  air  of  putting  all  of  Howe's  intellectual 
life  into  the  balance.  Howe  remained  patient  and  simple.  "Yes,  many 
opinions  are  possible,  but  not  this  one.  Whatever  anyone  believes  of 
'The  Ancient  Mariner,'  no  one  can  in  reason  believe  that  it  repre- 
sents a— a  honey-sweet  world  in  which  we  can  relax." 

"But  that  is  what  I  feel,  sir." 

This  was  well  done  too.  Howe  said,  "Look,  Mr.  Blackburn.  Do 
you  really  relax  with  hunger  and  thirst,  the  heat  and  the  sea-serpents, 
the  dead  men  with  staring  eyes,  Life  in  Death  and  the  skeletons? 
Come  now,  Mr.  Blackburn." 

Blackburn  made  no  answer  and  Howe  pressed  forward.  "Now  you 
say  of  Wordsworth,  'Of  peasant  stock  himself,  he  turned  from  the 
effete  life  of  the  salons  and  found  in  the  peasant  the  hope  of  a  flam- 
ing revolution  which  would  sweep  away  all  the  old  ideas.  This  is  the 
subject  of  his  best  poems.'  " 

Beaming  at  his  teacher  with  youthful  eagerness,  Blackburn  said, 
"Yes,  sir,  a  rebel,  a  bringer  of  light  to  suffering  mankind.  I  see  him 
as  a  kind  of  Prothemeus." 

"A  kind  of  what?" 

"Prothemeus,  sir." 

"Think,  Mr.  Blackburn.  We  were  talking  about  him  only  today 
and  I  mentioned  his  name  a  dozen  times.  You  don't  mean  Prothe- 
meus. You  mean—"  Howe  waited  but  there  was  no  response. 

"You  mean  Prometheus." 

Blackburn  gave  no  assent  and  Howe  took  the  reins.  "You've  done 
a  bad  job  here,  Mr.  Blackburn,  about  as  bad  as  could  be  done."  He 
saw  Blackburn  stiffen  and  his  genial  face  harden  again.  "It  shows 
either  a  lack  of  preparation  or  a  complete  lack  of  understanding." 
He  saw  Blackburn's  face  begin  to  go  to  pieces  and  he  stopped. 

"Oh,  sir,"  Blackburn  burst  out,  "I've  never  had  a  mark  like  this 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  107 

before,  never  anything  below  a  B,  never.  A  thing  like  this  has  never 
happened  to  me  before." 

It  must  be  true,  it  was  a  statement  too  easily  verified.  Could  it 
be  that  other  instructors  accepted  such  flaunting  nonsense?  Howe 
wanted  to  end  the  interview.  "I'll  set  it  down  to  lack  of  preparation," 
he  said.  "I  know  you're  busy.  That's  not  an  excuse  but  it's  an  expla- 
nation. Now  suppose  you  really  prepare  and  then  take  another  quiz 
in  two  weeks.  We'll  forget  this  one  and  count  the  other." 

Blackburn  squirmed  with  pleasure  and  gratitude.  "Thank  you,  sir. 
You're  really  very  kind,  very  kind." 

Howe  rose  to  conclude  the  visit.  "All  right  then— in  two  weeks." 

It  was  that  day  that  the  Dean  imparted  to  Howe  the  conclusion  of 
the  case  of  Tertan.  It  was  simple  and  a  little  anticlimactic.  A  physi- 
cian had  been  called  in,  and  had  said  the  word,  given  the  name. 

"A  classic  case,  he  called  it,"  the  Dean  said.  "Not  a  doubt  in  the 
world,"  he  said.  His  eyes  were  full  of  miserable  pity  and  he  clutched 
at  a  word.  "A  classic  case,  a  classic  case."  To  his  aid  and  to  Howe's 
there  came  the  Parthenon  and  the  form  of  the  Greek  drama,  the 
Aristotelian  logic,  Racine  and  the  Well-Tempered  Clavichord,  the 
blueness  of  the  Aegean  and  its  clear  sky.  Classic— that  is  to  say,  with- 
out a  doubt,  perfect  in  its  way,  a  veritable  model,  and,  as  the  Dean 
had  been  told,  sure  to  take  a  perfectly  predictable  and  inevitable 
course  to  a  foreknown  conclusion. 

It  was  not  only  pity  that  stood  in  the  Dean's  eyes.  For  a  moment 
there  was  fear  too.  "Terrible,"  he  said,  "it  is  simply  terrible." 

Then  he  went  on  briskly.  "Naturally  we've  told  the  boy  nothing. 
And  naturally  we  won't.  His  tuition's  paid  by  his  scholarship  and 
we'll  continue  him  on  the  rolls  until  the  end  of  the  year.  That  will 
be  kindest.  After  that  the  matter  will  be  out  of  our  control.  We'll  see, 
of  course,  that  he  gets  into  the  proper  hands.  I'm  told  there  will  be 
no  change,  he'll  go  on  like  this,  be  as  good  as  this,  for  four  to  six 
months.  And  so  we'll  just  go  along  as  usual." 

So  Tertan  continued  to  sit  in  Section  5  of  English  1A,  to  his  class- 
mates still  a  figure  of  curiously  dignified  fun,  symbol  to  most  of  them 
of  the  respectable  but  absurd  intellectual  life.  But  to  his  teacher  he 
was  now  very  different.  He  had  not  changed— he  was  still  the  grey- 
hound casting  for  the  scent  of  ideas  and  Howe  could  see  that  he  was 
still  the  same  Tertan,  but  he  could  not  feel  it.  What  he  felt  as  he 
looked  at  the  boy  sitting  in  his  accustomed  place  was  the  hard  blank 
of  a  fact.  The  fact  itself  was  formidable  and  depressing.  But  what 
Howe  was  chiefly  aware  of  was  that  he  had  permitted  the  metamor- 
phosis of  Tertan  from  person  to  fact. 


io8  LIONEL  TRILLING 

As  much  as  possible  he  avoided  seeing  Ter tan's  upraised  hand  and 
eager  eye.  But  the  fact  did  not  know  of  its  mere  factuality,  it  contin- 
ued its  existence  as  if  it  were  Tertan,  hand  up  and  eye  questioning, 
and  one  day  it  appeared  in  Howe's  office  with  a  document. 

"Even  the  spirit  who  lives  egregiously,  above  the  herd,  must  have 
its  relations  with  the  fellowman,"  Tertan  declared.  He  laid  the  docu- 
ment on  Howe's  desk.  It  was  headed  "Quill  and  Scroll  Society  of 
Dwight  College.  Application  for  Membership." 

"In  most  ways  these  are  crass  minds,"  Tertan  said,  touching  the 
paper.  "Yet  as  a  whole,  bound  together  in  their  common  love  of  let- 
ters, they  transcend  their  intellectual  lacks  since  it  is  not  a  paradox 
that  the  whole  is  greater  than  the  sum  of  its  parts." 

"When  are  the  elections?"  Howe  asked. 

"They  take  place  tomorrow." 

"I  certainly  hope  you  will  be  successful." 

"Thank  you.  Would  you  wish  to  implement  that  hope?"  A  rather 
dirty  finger  pointed  to  the  bottom  of  the  sheet.  "A  faculty  recom- 
mender  is  necessary,"  Tertan  said  stiffly,  and  waited. 

"And  you  wish  me  to  recommend  you?" 

"It  would  be  an  honor." 

"You  may  use  my  name." 

Tertan's  finger  pointed  again.  "It  must  be  a  written  sponsorship, 
signed  by  the  sponsor."  There  was  a  large  blank  space  on  the  form 
under  the  heading,  "Opinion  of  Faculty  Sponsor." 

This  was  almost  another  thing  and  Howe  hesitated.  Yet  there  was 
nothing  else  to  do  and  he  took  out  his  fountain  pen.  He  wrote,  "Mr. 
Ferdinand  Tertan  is  marked  by  his  intense  devotion  to  letters  and  by 
his  exceptional  love  of  all  things  of  the  mind."  To  this  he  signed  his 
name  which  looked  bold  and  assertive  on  the  white  page.  It  disturbed 
him,  the  strange  affirming  power  of  a  name.  With  a  business-like  air, 
Tertan  whipped  up  the  paper,  folded  it  with  decision  and  put  it 
into  his  pocket.  He  bowed  and  took  his  departure,  leaving  Howe 
with  the  sense  of  having  done  something  oddly  momentous. 

And  so  much  now  seemed  odd  and  momentous  to  Howe  that 
should  not  have  seemed  so.  It  was  odd  and  momentous,  he  felt,  when 
he  sat  with  Blackburn's  second  quiz  before  him  and  wrote  in  an  ex- 
cessively firm  hand  the  grade  of  C-minus.  The  paper  was  a  clear,  an 
indisputable  failure.  He  was  carefully  and  consciously  committing  a 
cowardice.  Blackburn  had  told  the  truth  when  he  had  pleaded  his 
past  record.  Howe  had  consulted  it  in  the  Dean's  office.  It  showed  no 
grade  lower  than  a  B-minus.  A  canvass  of  some  of  Blackburn's  previ- 
ous instructors  had  brought  vague  attestations  to  the  adequate  pow- 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  109 

ers  of  a  student  imperfectly  remembered  and  sometimes  surprise  that 
his  abilities  could  be  questioned  at  all. 

As  he  wrote  the  grade,  Howe  told  himself  that  his  cowardice 
sprang  from  an  unwillingness  to  have  more  dealings  with  a  student 
he  disliked.  He  knew  it  was  simpler  than  that.  He  knew  he  feared 
Blackburn:  that  was  the  absurd  truth.  And  cowardice  did  not  solve 
the  matter  after  all.  Blackburn,  flushed  with  a  first  success,  attacked 
at  once.  The  minimal  passing  grade  had  not  assuaged  his  feelings 
and  he  sat  at  Howe's  desk  and  again  the  blue-book  lay  between  them. 
Blackburn  said  nothing.  With  an  enormous  impudence,  he  was  wait- 
ing for  Howe  to  speak  and  explain  himself. 

At  last  Howe  said  sharply  and  rudely,  "Well?"  His  throat  was  tense 
and  the  blood  was  hammering  in  his  head.  His  mouth  was  tight  with 
anger  at  himself  for  his  disturbance. 

Blackburn's  glance  was  almost  baleful.  "This  is  impossible,  sir." 

"But  there  it  is,"  Howe  answered. 

"Sir?"  Blackburn  had  not  caught  the  meaning  but  his  tone  was 
still  haughty. 

Impatiently  Howe  said,  "There  it  is,  plain  as  day.  Are  you  here  to 
complain  again?" 

"Indeed  I  am,  sir."  There  was  surprise  in  Blackburn's  voice  that 
Howe  should  ask  the  question. 

"I  shouldn't  complain  if  I  were  you.  You  did  a  thoroughly  bad  job 
on  your  first  quiz.  This  one  is  a  little,  only  a  very  little,  better."  This 
was  not  true.  If  anything,  it  was  worse. 

"That  might  be  a  matter  of  opinion,  sir." 

"It  is  a  matter  of  opinion.  Of  my  opinion." 

"Another  opinion  might  be  different,  sir." 

"You  really  believe  that?"  Howe  said. 

"Yes."  The  omission  of  the  "sir"  was  monumental. 

"Whose,  for  example?" 

"The  Dean's,  for  example."  Then  the  fleshy  jaw  came  forward  a 
little.  "Or  a  certain  literary  critic's,  for  example." 

It  was  colossal  and  almost  too  much  for  Blackburn  himself  to  han- 
dle. The  solidity  of  his  face  almost  crumpled  under  it.  But  he  with- 
stood his  own  audacity  and  went  on.  "And  the  Dean's  opinion  might 
be  guided  by  the  knowledge  that  the  person  who  gave  me  this  mark 
is  the  man  whom  a  famous  critic,  the  most  eminent  judge  of  litera- 
ture in  this  country,  called  a  drunken  man.  The  Dean  might  think 
twice  about  whether  such  a  man  is  fit  to  teach  Dwight  students." 

Howe  said  in  quiet  admonition,  "Blackburn,  you're  mad,"  mean- 
ing no  more  than  to  check  the  boy's  extravagance. 


no  LIONEL  TRILLING 

But  Blackburn  paid  no  heed.  He  had  another  shot  in  the  locker. 
"And  the  Dean  might  be  guided  by  the  information,  of  which  I  have 
evidence,  documentary  evidence,"— he  slapped  his  breastpocket  twice 
—"that  this  same  person  personally  recommended  to  the  college 
literary  society,  the  oldest  in  the  country,  that  he  personally 
recommended  a  student  who  is  crazy,  who  threw  the  meeting 
into  an  uproar,  a  psychiatric  case.  The  Dean  might  take  that  into 
account." 

Howe  was  never  to  learn  the  details  of  that  "uproar."  He  had  al- 
ways to  content  himself  with  the  dim  but  passionate  picture  which  at 
that  moment  sprang  into  his  mind,  of  Tertan  standing  on  some  ab- 
stract height  and  madly  denouncing  the  multitude  of  Quill  and 
Scroll  who  howled  him  down. 

He  sat  quiet  a  moment  and  looked  at  Blackburn.  The  ferocity  had 
entirely  gone  from  the  student's  face.  He  sat  regarding  his  teacher 
almost  benevolently.  He  had  played  a  good  card  and  now,  scarcely  at 
all  unfriendly,  he  was  waiting  to  see  the  effect.  Howe  took  up  the 
blue-book  and  negligently  sifted  through  it.  He  read  a  page,  closed 
the  book,  struck  out  the  C-minus  and  wrote  an  F. 

"Now  you  may  take  the  paper  to  the  Dean,"  he  said.  "You  may  tell 
him  that  after  reconsidering  it,  I  lowered  the  grade." 

The  gasp  was  audible.  "Oh  sir!"  Blackburn  cried.  "Please!"  His 
face  was  agonized.  "It  means  my  graduation,  my  livelihood,  my 
future.  Don't  do  this  to  me." 

"It's  done  already." 

Blackburn  stood  up.  "I  spoke  rashly,  sir,  hastily.  I  had  no  inten- 
tion, no  real  intention,  of  seeing  the  Dean.  It  rests  with  you— en- 
tirely, entirely.  I  hope  you  will  restore  the  first  mark." 

"Take  the  matter  to  the  Dean  or  not,  just  as  you  choose.  The 
grade  is  what  you  deserve  and  it  stands." 

Blackburn's  head  dropped.  "And  will  I  be  failed  at  midterm,  sir?" 

"Of  course." 

From  deep  out  of  Blackburn's  great  chest  rose  a  cry  of  anguish. 
"Oh  sir,  if  you  want  me  to  go  down  on  my  knees  to  you,  I  will,  I 
will." 

Howe  looked  at  him  in  amazement. 

"I  will,  I  will.  On  my  knees,  sir.  This  mustn't,  mustn't  happen." 

He  spoke  so  literally,  meaning  so  very  truly  that  his  knees  and 
exactly  his  knees  were  involved  and  seeming  to  think  that  he  was 
offering  something  of  tangible  value  to  his  teacher,  that  Howe,  whose 
head  had  become  icy  clear  in  the  nonsensical  drama,  thought,  "The 
boy  is  mad,"  and  began  to  speculate  fantastically  whether  something 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  in 

in  himself  attracted  or  developed  aberration.  He  could  see  himself 
standing  absurdly  before  the  Dean  and  saying,  "I've  found  another. 
This  time  it's  the  Vice-president  of  the  Council,  the  manager  of  the 
debating  team  and  secretary  of  Quill  and  Scroll." 

One  more  such  discovery,  he  thought,  and  he  himself  would  be 
discovered!  And  there,  suddenly,  Blackburn  was  on  his  knees  with  a 
thump,  his  huge  thighs  straining  his  trousers,  his  hand  outstretched 
in  a  great  gesture  of  supplication. 

With  a  cry,  Howe  shoved  back  his  swivel  chair  and  it  rolled  away 
on  its  casters  half  across  the  little  room.  Blackburn  knelt  for  a  mo- 
ment to  nothing  at  all,  then  got  to  his  feet. 

Howe  rose  abruptly.  He  said,  "Blackburn,  you  will  stop  acting  like 
an  idiot.  Dust  your  knees  off,  take  your  paper  and  get  out.  You've 
behaved  like  a  fool  and  a  malicious  person.  You  have  half  a  term  to 
do  a  decent  job.  Keep  your  silly  mouth  shut  and  try  to  do  it.  Now 
get  out." 

Blackburn's  head  was  low.  He  raised  it  and  there  was  a  pious  light 
in  his  eyes.  "Will  you  shake  hands,  sir?"  he  said.  He  thrust  out  his 
hand. 

"I  will  not,"  Howe  said. 

Head  and  hand  sank  together.  Blackburn  picked  up  his  blue-book 
and  walked  to  the  door.  He  turned  and  said,  "Thank  you,  sir."  His 
back,  as  he  departed,  was  heavy  with  tragedy  and  stateliness. 


IV 

After  years  of  bad  luck  with  the  weather,  the  College  had  a  perfect 
day  for  Commencement.  It  was  wonderfully  bright,  the  air  so  trans- 
parent, the  wind  so  brisk  that  no  one  could  resist  talking  about  it. 

As  Howe  set  out  for  the  campus  he  heard  Hilda  calling  from  the 
back  yard.  She  called,  "Professor,  professor,"  and  came  running  to 
him. 

Howe  said,  "What's  this  'professor'  business?" 

"Mother  told  me,"  Hilda  said.  "You've  been  promoted.  And  I 
want  to  take  your  picture." 

"Next  year,"  said  Howe.  "I  won't  be  a  professor  until  next  year. 
And  you  know  better  than  to  call  anybody  'professor'." 

"It  was  just  in  fun,"  Hilda  said.  She  seemed  disappointed. 

"But  you  can  take  my  picture  if  you  want.  I  won't  look  much  dif- 
ferent next  year."  Still,  it  was  frightening.  It  might  mean  that  he  was 
to  stay  in  this  town  all  his  life. 


112  LIONEL  TRILLING 

Hilda  brightened.  "Can  I  take  it  in  this?"  she  said,  and  touched 
the  gown  he  carried  over  his  arm. 

Howe  laughed.  "Yes,  you  can  take  it  in  this." 

"I'll  get  my  things  and  meet  you  in  front  of  Otis,"  Hilda  said.  "I 
have  the  background  all  picked  out." 

On  the  campus  the  Commencement  crowd  was  already  large.  It 
stood  about  in  eager,  nervous  little  family  groups.  As  he  crossed, 
Howe  was  greeted  by  a  student,  capped  and  gowned,  glad  of  the 
chance  to  make  an  event  for  his  parents  by  introducing  one  of  his 
teachers.  It  was  while  Howe  stood  there  chatting  that  he  saw  Tertan. 

He  had  never  seen  anyone  quite  so  alone,  as  though  a  circle  had 
been  woven  about  him  to  separate  him  from  the  gay  crowd  on  the 
campus.  Not  that  Tertan  was  not  gay,  he  was  the  gayest  of  all.  Three 
weeks  had  passed  since  Howe  had  last  seen  him,  the  weeks  of  exami- 
nation, the  lazy  week  before  Commencement,  and  this  was  now  a  dif- 
ferent Tertan.  On  his  head  he  wore  a  panama  hat,  broadbrimmed 
and  fine,  of  the  shape  associated  with  South  American  planters.  He 
wore  a  suit  of  raw  silk,  luxurious  but  yellowed  with  age  and  much 
too  tight,  and  he  sported  a  whangee  cane.  He  walked  sedately,  the 
hat  tilted  at  a  devastating  angle,  the  stick  coming  up  and  down  in 
time  to  his  measured  tread.  He  had,  Howe  guessed,  outfitted  himself 
to  greet  the  day  in  the  clothes  of  that  ruined  father  whose  existence 
was  on  record  in  the  Dean's  office.  Gravely  and  arrogantly  he  sur- 
veyed the  scene— in  it,  his  whole  bearing  seemed  to  say,  but  not  of  it. 
With  his  haughty  step,  with  his  flashing  eye,  Tertan  was  coming 
nearer.  Howe  did  not  wish  to  be  seen.  He  shifted  his  position  slightly. 
When  he  looked  again,  Tertan  was  not  in  sight. 

The  chapel  clock  struck  the  quarter  hour.  Howe  detached  himself 
from  his  chat  and  hurried  to  Otis  Hall  at  the  far  end  of  the  campus. 
Hilda  had  not  yet  come.  He  went  up  into  the  high  portico  and,  using 
the  glass  of  the  door  for  a  mirror,  put  on  his  gown,  adjusted  the  hood 
on  his  shoulders  and  set  the  mortarboard  on  his  head.  When  he 
came  down  the  steps  Hilda  had  arrived. 

Nothing  could  have  told  him  more  forcibly  that  a  year  had  passed 
than  the  development  of  Hilda's  photographic  possessions  from  the 
box  camera  of  the  previous  fall.  By  a  strap  about  her  neck  was  hung  a 
leather  case,  so  thick  and  strong,  so  carefully  stitched  and  so  molded 
to  its  contents  that  it  could  only  hold  a  costly  camera.  The  appear- 
ance was  deceptive,  Howe  knew,  for  he  had  been  present  at  the 
Aikens'  pre-Christmas  conference  about  its  purchase.  It  was  only  a 
fairly  good  domestic  camera.  Still,  it  looked  very  impressive.  Hilda 
carried  another  leather  case  from  which  she  drew  a  collapsible  tri- 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  113 

pod.  Decisively  she  extended  each  of  its  gleaming  legs  and  set  it  up 
on  the  path.  She  removed  the  camera  from  its  case  and  fixed  it  to  the 
tripod.  In  its  compact  efficiency  the  camera  almost  had  a  life  of  its 
own,  but  Hilda  treated  it  with  easy  familiarity,  looked  into  its  eye, 
glanced  casually  at  its  gauges.  Then  from  a  pocket  she  took  still  an- 
other leather  case  and  drew  from  it  a  small  instrument  through 
which  she  looked  first  at  Howe,  who  began  to  feel  inanimate  and  lost, 
and  then  at  the  sky.  She  made  some  adjustment  on  the  instrument, 
then  some  adjustment  on  the  camera.  She  swept  the  scene  with  her 
eye,  found  a  spot  and  pointed  the  camera  in  its  direction.  She  walked 
to  the  spot,  stood  on  it  and  beckoned  to  Howe.  With  each  new 
leather  case,  with  each  new  instrument  and  with  each  new  adjust- 
ment she  had  grown  in  ease  and  now  she  said,  "Joe,  will  you  stand 
here?" 

Obediently  Howe  stood  where  he  was  bidden.  She  had  yet  another 
instrument.  She  took  out  a  tape-measure  on  a  mechanical  spool. 
Kneeling  down  before  Howe,  she  put  the  little  metal  ring  of  the  tape 
under  the  tip  of  his  shoe.  At  her  request,  Howe  pressed  it  with  his 
toe.  When  she  had  measured  her  distance,  she  nodded  to  Howe  who 
released  the  tape.  At  a  touch,  it  sprang  back  into  the  spool.  "You 
have  to  be  careful  if  you're  going  to  get  what  you  want,"  Hilda  said. 
"I  don't  believe  in  all  this  snap-snap-snapping,"  she  remarked  loftily. 
Howe  nodded  in  agreement,  although  he  was  beginning  to  think 
Hilda's  care  excessive. 

Now  at  last  the  moment  had  come.  Hilda  squinted  into  the  cam- 
era, moved  the  tripod  slightly.  She  stood  to  the  side,  holding  the 
plunger  of  the  shutter-cable.  "Ready,"  she  said.  "Will  you  relax, 
Joseph,  please?"  Howe  realized  that  he  was  standing  frozen.  Hilda 
stood  poised  and  precise  as  a  setter,  one  hand  holding  the  little  cable, 
the  other  extended  with  curled  dainty  fingers  like  a  dancer's,  as  if 
expressing  to  her  subject  the  precarious  delicacy  of  the  moment.  She 
pressed  the  plunger  and  there  was  the  click.  At  once  she  stirred  to 
action,  got  behind  the  camera,  turned  a  new  exposure.  "Thank  you," 
she  said.  "Would  you  stand  under  that  tree  and  let  me  do  a  character 
study  with  light  and  shade?" 

The  childish  absurdity  of  the  remark  restored  Howe's  ease.  He 
went  to  the  little  tree.  The  pattern  the  leaves  made  on  his  gown  was 
what  Hilda  was  after.  He  had  just  taken  a  satisfactory  position  when 
he  heard  in  the  unmistakable  voice,  "Ah,  Doctor!  Having  your  pic- 
ture taken?" 

Howe  gave  up  the  pose  and  turned  to  Blackburn  who  stood  on  the 
walk,  his  hands  behind  his  back,  a  little  too  large  for  his  bachelor's 


ii4  LIONEL  TRILLING 

gown.  Annoyed  that  Blackburn  should  see  him  posing  for  a  character 
study  in  light  and  shade,  Howe  said  irritably,  "Yes,  having  my  pic- 
ture taken." 

Blackburn  beamed  at  Hilda.  "And  the  little  photographer,"  he 
said.  Hilda  fixed  her  eyes  on  the  ground  and  stood  closer  to  her  bril- 
liant and  aggressive  camera.  Blackburn,  teetering  on  his  heels,  his 
hands  behind  his  back,  wholly  prelatical  and  benignly  patient,  was 
not  abashed  at  the  silence.  At  last  Howe  said,  "If  you'll  excuse  us, 
Mr.  Blackburn,  we'll  go  on  with  the  picture." 

"Go  right  ahead,  sir.  I'm  running  along."  But  he  only  came  closer. 
"Dr.  Howe,"  he  said  fervently,  "I  want  to  tell  you  how  glad  I  am  that 
I  was  able  to  satisfy  your  standards  at  last." 

Howe  was  surprised  at  the  hard  insulting  brightness  of  his  own 
voice  and  even  Hilda  looked  up  curiously  as  he  said,  "Nothing  you 
have  ever  done  has  satisfied  me  and  nothing  you  could  ever  do  would 
satisfy  me,  Blackburn." 

With  a  glance  at  Hilda,  Blackburn  made  a  gesture  as  if  to  hush 
Howe— as  though  all  his  former  bold  malice  had  taken  for  granted  a 
kind  of  understanding  between  himself  and  his  teacher,  a  secret 
which  must  not  be  betrayed  to  a  third  person.  "I  only  meant,  sir,"  he 
said,  "that  I  was  able  to  pass  your  course  after  all." 

Howe  said,  "You  didn't  pass  my  course.  I  passed  you  out  of  my 
course.  I  passed  you  without  even  reading  your  paper.  I  wanted  to  be 
sure  the  college  would  be  rid  of  you.  And  when  all  the  grades  were 
in  and  I  did  read  your  paper,  I  saw  I  was  right  not  to  have  read  it 
first." 

Blackburn  presented  a  stricken  face.  "It  was  very  bad,  sir?" 

But  Howe  had  turned  away.  The  paper  had  been  fantastic.  The 
paper  had  been,  if  he  wished  to  see  it  so,  mad.  It  was  at  this  moment 
that  the  Dean  came  up  behind  Howe  and  caught  his  arm.  "Hello, 
Joseph,"  he  said.  "We'd  better  be  getting  along,  it's  almost  late." 

He  was  not  a  familiar  man,  but  when  he  saw  Blackburn,  who  ap- 
proached to  greet  him,  he  took  Blackburn's  arm  too.  "Hello,  Theo- 
dore," he  said.  Leaning  forward  on  Howe's  arm  and  on  Blackburn's, 
he  said,  "Hello,  Hilda  dear."  Hilda  replied  quietly,  "Hello,  Uncle 
George." 

Still  clinging  to  their  arms,  still  linking  Howe  and  Blackburn,  the 
Dean  said,  "Another  year  gone,  Joe,  and  we've  turned  out  another 
crop.  After  you've  been  here  a  few  years,  you'll  find  it  reasonably  up- 
setting—you wonder  how  there  can  be  so  many  graduating  classes 
while  you  stay  the  same.  But  of  course  you  don't  stay  the  same." 
Then  he  said,  "Well,"  sharply,  to  dismiss  the  thought.  He  pulled 


OF  THIS  TIME,   OF  THAT  PLACE  115 

Blackburn's  arm  and  swung  him  around  to  Howe.  "Have  you  heard 
about  Teddy  Blackburn?"  he  asked.  "He  has  a  job  already,  before 
graduation,  the  first  man  of  his  class  to  be  placed."  Expectant  of  con- 
gratulations, Blackburn  beamed  at  Howe.  Howe  remained  silent. 

"Isn't  that  good?"  the  Dean  said.  Still  Howe  did  not  answer  and 
the  Dean,  puzzled  and  put  out,  turned  to  Hilda.  "That's  a  very  fine- 
looking  camera,  Hilda."  She  touched  it  with  affectionate  pride. 

"Instruments  of  precision,"  said  a  voice.  "Instruments  of  preci- 
sion." Of  the  three  with  joined  arms,  Howe  was  the  nearest  to  Ter- 
tan,  whose  gaze  took  in  all  the  scene  except  the  smile  and  the  nod 
which  Howe  gave  him.  The  boy  leaned  on  his  cane.  The  broad- 
brimmed  hat,  canting  jauntily  over  his  eye,  confused  the  image  of 
his  face  that  Howe  had  established,  suppressed  the  rigid  lines  of  the 
ascetic  and  brought  out  the  baroque  curves.  It  made  an  effect  of  per- 
verse majesty. 

"Instruments  of  precision,"  said  Tertan  for  the  last  time,  address- 
ing no  one,  making  a  casual  comment  to  the  universe.  And  it  oc- 
curred to  Howe  that  Tertan  might  not  be  referring  to  Hilda's  equip- 
ment. The  sense  of  the  thrice-woven  circle  of  the  boy's  loneliness 
smote  him  fiercely.  Tertan  stood  in  majestic  jauntiness,  superior  to 
all  the  scene,  but  his  isolation  made  Howe  ache  with  a  pity  of  which 
Tertan  was  more  the  cause  than  the  object,  so  general  and  indis- 
criminate was  it. 

Whether  in  his  sorrow  he  made  some  unintended  movement  to- 
ward Tertan  which  the  Dean  checked  or  whether  the  suddenly  tight- 
ened grip  on  his  arm  was  the  Dean's  own  sorrow  and  fear,  he  did  not 
know.  Tertan  watched  them  in  the  incurious  way  people  watch  a 
photograph  being  taken  and  suddenly  the  thought  that,  to  the  boy,  it 
must  seem  that  the  three  were  posing  for  a  picture  together  made 
Howe  detach  himself  almost  rudely  from  the  Dean's  grasp. 

"I  promised  Hilda  another  picture,"  he  announced— needlessly, 
for  Tertan  was  no  longer  there,  he  had  vanished  in  the  last  sudden 
flux  of  visitors  who,  now  that  the  band  had  struck  up,  were  rushing 
nervously  to  find  seats. 

"You'd  better  hurry,"  the  Dean  said.  "I'll  go  along,  it's  getting 
late  for  me."  He  departed  and  Blackburn  walked  stately  by  his  side. 

Howe  again  took  his  position  under  the  little  tree  which  cast  its 
shadow  over  his  face  and  gown.  "Just  hurry,  Hilda,  won't  you?"  he 
said.  Hilda  held  the  cable  at  arm's  length,  her  other  arm  crooked  and 
her  fingers  crisped.  She  rose  on  her  toes  and  said  "Ready,"  and 
pressed  the  release.  "Thank  you,"  she  said  gravely  and  began  to  dis- 
mantle her  camera  as  he  hurried  off  to  join  the  procession. 


Sea  Raider 


BY  FRANK  LASKIER 


To  add  to  this  series,  I've  told  you  exactly  what  happened  to  me  on 
board  the  ship.  Perhaps  without  intending  to,  because  at  one 
time,  the  memory  was  so  fresh  in  my  mind,  that  I  did  not  feel  in- 
clined to  talk  about  it,  or  think  about  it,  but  now  you  know,  I  am 
the  sailor  called  Frank.  One  of  thousands. 

I  could  tell  you  my  name,  but  it  doesn't  matter.  It  is  of  no  im- 
portance. My  name  might  be  "Smith"  or  "Jones"  or  "Brown"  or 
"Robinson"  or  anything.  I  am  merely  a  sailor. 

And  I  have  been  through  things,  and  I  have  seen  them. 

I  could  give  all  sorts  of  messages  to  you,  if  I  were  merely  sitting 
here  asking  you  for  money,  it  would  be  so  dreadfully  easy.  I  know 
that  you  would  give  me  anything  that  I  wanted. 

But,  there  is  another  thing.  This  is  in  a  world-wide  broadcast,  and 
there  is  one  man  listening  to  me  to-night,  and  I  have  a  word  for  him. 

I  wonder  if  you  remember  me,  Mister.  I  wonder. 

You're  the  Captain  of  a  German  raider,  and  on  the  29th  January 
you  attacked  a  merchant  ship.  Don't  you  remember?  Just  when  it 
was  dark,  you  saw  me  then.  You  met  me.  At  one  time  you  weren't 
more  than  100  yards  from  jne.  You  followed  us  up.  You  chased  us. 
You  kept  hidden.  You  were  afraid  even  of  our  4-inch  gun,  against 
your  11 -inch  guns. 

You  attacked  us  in  the  dark,  at  point-blank  range.  Don't  you  re- 
member? Don't  you  remember  shelling  us  for  twenty  minutes  and 
then  ceasing  fire,  and  coming  round  to  examine  the  damage. 

I  was  on  the  starboard  bunker  hatch,  you  shone  your  searchlight 
on  me.  You'd  shot  my  foot  off.  Don't  you  remember  the  Fourth  Mate 
making  a  signal  out  to  you  that  we  were  abandoning  ship?  And 
you  answered  the  signal.  Don't  you  remember  opening  fire  on  us 
again? 

I  remember  it.  We  got  on  to  the  raft,  didn't  we?  You  saw  us,  you 

watched  our  ship  sink.  And  you  machine-gunned  us.  But  you  didn't 

116 


SEA  RAIDER  117 

do  the  job  properly.  Because  out  of  that  ship's  company  ten  men  are 
alive,  and  those  ten  men  know  what  you  did. 

Three  of  us  were  wounded.  Seven  of  us  were  not.  Those  seven  are 
back  at  sea. 

You'd  be  surprised  if  you  knew  the  job  that  the  Captain  has. 
You'd  be  surprised,  and  I  don't  think  you'd  be  very  happy  about  it, 
either. 

You  murdered  my  shipmates.  You  stood  by  and  watched  us  drown. 
You  machine-gunned  us. 

But  go  ahead,  Mister.  Go  right  ahead. 

Using  your  yellow,  filthy,  murderous  methods,  you  may  get  an- 
other couple  more  ships.  You  work  the  same  stunt  on  them.  You'll 
leave  them  to  the  sharks,  won't  you? 

But,  your  time  is  up. 

Sooner  or  later,  and  it  will  be  sooner,  you  will  be  met  by  the  Navy. 

Aircraft  from  the  Fleet  Air  Arm  will  come  over  you,  and  they'll 
bomb  you  and  blast  you  and  your  bridge  will  fly  to  pieces,  as  ours 
did,  and  your  decks  will  burst  open  as  ours  did. 

And  then  a  battleship  will  come  alongside,  and  I  hope  it's  the 
Warspite.  And  with  her  15-inch  guns  she'll  fire  you,  and  you  will  see 
your  crew  dead  and  dying.  You  will  see  your  ship  blowing  up,  and 
you  yourself  will  be  on  a  raft. 

But  we  won't  machine-gun  you.  We  weren't  brought  up  that  way. 
No,  we'll  give  you  a  little  taste  of  what  it's  like  in  the  salt  water.  Air- 
craft from  the  Fleet  Air  Arm  will  catch  up  with  you,  they'll  dive- 
bomb  you,  wave  after  wave  after  wave,  and  your  guns  will  be  as  use- 
less as  ours  was.  And  a  battleship  will  come  up,  and  I  hope  it's  the 
Warspite,  and  you'll  be  shattered.  You'll  see  your  bridge  go  up  in 
flames,  as  ours  did.  You'll  see  your  mates  hanging  round  on  the 
decks,  the  same  as  I  did.  You'll  see  your  ship  sink,  as  I  did.  And 
you'll  be  there  in  the  water,  struggling  as  we  were,  and  your  life- 
jacket  won't  hold  you  up,  and  you'll  go  down  and  down  and  down, 
and  the  water  will  come  in  your  eyes  and  your  ears,  and  down  your 
mouth,  and  you'll  see  death  in  front  of  you.  And  you'll  come  up 
to  the  surface,  and  the  British  seamen  will  get  hold  of  you,  and 
will  drag  you  on  board  the  boat.  Because  we  don't  leave  men  to 
drown. 

But,  remember,  Mr.  Raider,  that  when  we  have  finished  with  you 
—and  we  won't  use  blackjacks  or  castor-oil— you'll  wish,  and  you'll 
hope,  and  you'll  pray  that  you  had  been  left  to  drown,  as  you  left  us. 
But  we  didn't  drown. 

Your  day  is  coming.  Look  out  for  it. 


Zuleika  in  Cambridge 


BY  S.  C.  ROBERTS 


"See  if  it  is  possible  to  go  direct  from  here  to  Cam- 
bridge," said  Zuleika.  .  .  .  "Stop!"  she  said  suddenly.  "I 
have  a  much  better  idea.  Go  down  very  early  to  the  sta- 
tion. See  the  station-master.  Order  me  a  special  train  . . ." 
Max  Beerbohm,  Zuleika  Dobson  (p.  350) 

I 

The  special  train  which  Zuleika  had  instructed  Melisande  to  order 
for  ten  o'clock  on  the  morning  following  the  annihilating  tragedy 
of  Eights  Week  did  not  start  punctually.  The  station-master  was  not 
prepared  to  accept  the  order  as  a  matter  of  the  day's  routine.  Of 
course  he  had  arranged  special  trains  before;  there  had  been  a  year 
when  he  had  facilitated  the  departure  of  a  Royal  Personage  return- 
ing from  the  glories  of  the  Encaenia  and  a  pair  of  cuff-links  engraved 
with  the  august  monogram  remained,  unworn,  in  its  case  on  his 
drawing-room  table.  But  a  peremptory  order  from  a  young  woman 
given  at  8.30  in  the  morning  in  a  suspiciously  foreign  accent  was 
unprecedented. 

"Who's  the  train  for?"  asked  the  station-master  with  ungrammati- 
cal  directness. 

"For  Miss  Dobson." 

"Never  heard  of  her." 

"You  never  hear  of  Miss  Dobson,  Miss  Zuleika  Dobson!  But  she  is 
the  grand-daughter  of  the  Warden  of  Judas  College,  yes." 

At  this  the  station-master  showed  some  interest.  He  took  the  pre- 
caution, however,  of  consulting  the  Proctor  by  telephone.  The  Proc- 
tor replied,  feverishly,  that  the  sooner  Miss  Dobson  left  Oxford,  the 
better.  When  he  heard  that  her  destination  was  Cambridge,  his  en- 
thusiasm rose  still  higher. 

So  Zuleika's  train  was  prepared  and  perhaps  the  Roman  Emperors 

118 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  119 

sighed  wistfully.  Lately  they  had  seen  so  much— it  had  been  like  old 
times. 

Slowly  the  special  train  passed  through  the  cavalier  country  and 
approached  the  puritan  plains  of  East  Anglia. 

Zuleika's  spirits  drooped.  She  knew  little  of  English  history,  but 
by  some  premonition  she  was  aware  that  the  country  in  which  a 
Knight  of  the  Garter  would  die  for  an  idea  was  receding  from  her. 
.  .  .  Could  it  be,  she  wondered,  that  she  was  being  guilty  of  an  im- 
possible disloyalty? 

At  Bletchley  there  was  some  delay.  Special  or  no  special,  it  was  too 
much  to  expect  that  the  train  should  pass  every  signal-box  unchal- 
lenged. Zuleika  fumed  and  Melisande  still  showed  a  tendency  to  sulk. 

At  length  the  train  drew  up  at  the  Cambridge  platform.  Already, 
it  appeared,  several  other  trains— ordinary  trains— were  halted  at  it; 
but  as  the  platform  stretched  far,  far  beyond  the  limits  of  human 
vision,  it  seemed  to  matter  little— except  to  Zuleika.  Why  had  not 
Melisande  arranged  things  better? 

"But,  mademoiselle,  I  order  a  special  train  where  we  begin.  I  could 
order  not  a  special  voie  where  we  finish." 

"We  are  not  finishing,"  said  Zuleika,  "we  are  beginning  again." 

Alas,  there  was  no  Warden  to  meet  Zuleika  at  the  station.  In  Cam- 
bridge, of  course,  they  do  not  have  Wardens,  but  Zuleika  could  not 
know  that.  But  at  least  there  were  porters  and  Melisande  quickly  se- 
cured, and  fully  employed,  three  of  them.  The  cab-rank  was,  to  Zu- 
leika, uninviting,  but  a  hansom  for  herself,  another  for  Melisande 
and  the  light  luggage,  and  two  others  for  the  heavy  luggage  proved 
to  be  an  adequate,  if  not  very  convenient,  means  of  transport. 

"Where  to,  Miss?"  enquired  the  leading  cabman. 

To  this  Zuleika  was  unable  to  give  a  ready  answer.  She  had,  so  far 
as  she  knew,  no  relatives  or  friends  in  Cambridge.  But  Cambridge, 
she  assumed,  had,  like  Oxford,  a  number  of  colleges.  Did  the  grand- 
daughter of  the  head  of  an  Oxford  college  acquire  any  status,  by 
affiliation  or  otherwise,  in  Cambridge?  It  was  long  before  the  days  of 
"friendly  alliances"  between  Oxford  and  Cambridge  colleges  and 
Zuleika  was  puzzled. 

"Which  is  the  best  college?"  she  asked  the  cabman. 

"That's  not  for  me  to  say,  Miss.  Of  course,  some's  better  class  than 
others,  but  nowadays  there's  all  sorts  in  most  of  'em.  Now  if  you  just 
tell  me  which  one  your  brother  or  friend  is  in,  I'll  take  you  there." 

But  Zuleika,  alas,  could  not. 

"Are  there  hotels?"  she  asked. 


120  S.   C.  ROBERTS 

"Yes,  plenty,  Miss." 

"Take  me  to  the  best." 

"Very  good,  Miss." 

So  the  cavalcade  set  off. 

The  first  part  of  the  journey  did  not  impress,  or  amuse,  Zuleika. 
The  Station  Road  was  like  all  Station  Roads  in  the  world— perhaps 
more  so,  since  when  the  railway  had  first  come  to  Cambridge,  it  had 
been  the  particular  care  of  the  University  authorities  to  remove  its 
distracting  influence  as  far  as  possible  from  the  centre  of  academic 
calm.  A  one-horse  tram,  which  occasionally  interfered  with  the 
orderly  sequence  of  the  four  hansoms,  seemed  to  be  the  only  dis- 
tinguishing feature  of  Cambridge  transport.  Even  when  the  cabs 
swung  round  into  another  street,  Zuleika  could  see  no  evidence  of 
collegiate  grandeur.  No  Roman  Emperors  looked  down  upon  her, 
though  shortly  an  imposing  spire  came  into  view.  Zuleika  surmised 
that  it  might  be  the  cathedral.  How  could  she  know  that  it  was  but 
a  modern  church,  alien  alike  from  Anglican  and  Cantabrigian  tra- 
dition? The  hansoms  swung  to  the  left  and  passed  a  row  of  villas 
which  might  well  have  reminded  Zuleika  of  Oxford  had  her  knowl- 
edge of  that  city  extended  to  its  northern  area  and  not  been  con- 
fined to  Judas  College  and  the  meadows. 

But  the  last  swerve  of  the  cab  brought  her  to  something  better— 
a  street  of  gentle  but  repeated  curves  with  solid  terraced  houses,  a 
running  stream  in  each  gutter  and,  later,  a  jumble  of  shops  and 
colleges. 

Just  as  Zuleika  was  contemplating  this  medley,  the  hansoms 
drew  up  alongside  the  hotel.  Melisande  dealt  with  the  four  cabmen 
while  Zuleika  issued  an  order  for  the  best  suite  available.  The  bath- 
room arrangements  seemed  to  her  inadequate,  but  she  supposed  that 
they  must  suffice— at  least  until  she  should  be  able  to  establish  her- 
self under  a  more  dignified  and  appropriate  roof.  Meanwhile  she  was 
hungry.  It  was  after  two  o'clock  and  as  she  approached  the  dining- 
room,  she  saw  that  it  was  empty,  save  for  a  young  man  who  was 
lingering  over  his  coffee.  Zuleika  inferred  that  he  was  an  under- 
graduate, though  probably  not  a  duke.  Nevertheless,  a  slight  thrill 
shot  through  her  tired  frame.  It  was  a  meeting  not  comparable  with 
her  initial  encounter  with  the  Duke  of  Dorset,  but  here  was  Zuleika 
face  to  face  for  the  first  time  with  a  Cambridge  undergraduate;  and 
undergraduates,  she  assumed  (as  Dr  Johnson  assumed  of  the  waters 
of  the  sea),  were  much  the  same  everywhere.  She  hoped  that  the 
young  man  would  not  fall  in  love  with  her  too  violently  before  she 
had  had  her  lunch. 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  121 

As  she  entered  the  room,  the  victim,  as  it  seemed,  leapt  violently 
to  his  doom. 

"Ah,  at  last  you've  come." 

Zuleika  recognised  the  tone.  It  was  a  lover's  welcome.  So,  she 
mused,  it  was  inevitable.  The  greeting  was  freer,  gayer,  less  digni- 
fied, perhaps;  but  the  magic  was  still  working.  Quickly  Zuleika  began 
to  speculate  on  the  probable  course  of  events.  Had  they  a  river  at 
Cambridge?  Yes,  she  thought  she  had  heard  of  Cambridge  boating 
and  boat-races,  but  what  was  the  capacity  of  the  Cambridge  river? 
What  of  the  reeds  and  mud  to  which  she  had  heard  vaguely  scornful 
reference  made  in  Oxford?  If  young  men  must  die  for  her,  she 
liked  them  to  die  cleanly.  .  .  .  Her  reverie  was  harshly  interrupted. 

"Oh,  I  beg  your  pardon,"  said  the  young  man,  "I'm  frightfully 
sorry.  ...  I  thought  you  were " 

"You  thought  I  was ?"  murmured  Zuleika. 

"I  thought  you  were  my— er— friend.  You  see,  I  was  just  waiting 
for  her  and— well,  here  she  is.  I'm  awfully  sorry." 

The  friend  had  round  blue  eyes  and  fluffy  fair  hair.  Zuleika  sat 
down  to  her  lunch. 

II 

Sipping  her  cafe  noir,  Zuleika  reviewed  the  situation.  The  en- 
counter with  the  young  man  was  puzzling.  Yet  it  might  well  be  that 
he  was  not  an  undergraduate;  possibly  he  was  just  a  visitor  passing 
through  the  town.  The  hotel  seemed  now  to  be  empty  except  for 
two  elderly  ladies  dozing  over  illustrated  papers  in  the  lounge. 
Zuleika  was  wondering  how  to  approach  the  problem  of  Cambridge. 
With  no  grandfather  and,  so  far,  no  duke  to  guide  or  shelter  her,  she 
found  it  difficult.  But  at  least  the  sun  was  shining  and  she  stepped 
out  into  the  street. 

The  pinnacles  of  King's  were  silhouetted  against  the  cerulean  blue 
of  the  summer  sky  and  Zuleika  contemplated  them  with  quizzical 
awe.  So  far  as  she  could  remember,  she  had  seen  nothing  quite  like 
them  in  Oxford.  But  she  had  not  come  to  Cambridge  to  contem- 
plate pinnacles.  How,  she  reflected,  was  she  to  make  acquaintance 
with  a  Cambridge  college  from  within?  At  that  moment  the  hotel- 
porter  approached  her. 

"You're  wanted,  please,  Miss,"  he  said. 

"By  whom?" 

"It's  the  manager,  Miss.  I  think  he's  got  a  message  for  you." 

Zuleika  turned  back  into  the  hotel.  The  manager  seemed  to  be 
slightly  perturbed. 


122  S.  C.   ROBERTS 

"I'm  sorry  to  trouble  you,  Miss  Dobson,"  he  said  politely,  "but  the 
Senior  Proctor  wishes  to  see  you  at  once." 

"What  is  a  Proctor?"  asked  Zuleika.  "Is  it  the  same  as  a  Warden?" 

The  question  confused  the  manager  a  little.  The  only  kind  of 
warden  with  which  he  was  familiar  was  a  church-warden.  He  knew, 
of  course,  that  the  Proctors  attended  divine  service,  compulsorily,  on 
certain  occasions;  but  he  rightly  associated  them  with  disciplinary, 
rather  than  with  spiritual,  responsibility. 

"The  Proctors,"  he  said,  "keep  an  eye  on  the  undergraduates." 

Zuleika  brightened  at  this. 

"I  see,"  she  said,  "and  what  is  the  message?" 

The  manager  read  from  a  piece  of  paper: 

"The  Senior  Proctor  presents  his  compliments  to  Miss  Dobson  and 
would  be  obliged  if  she  would  call  upon  him  in  his  rooms  at  her 
earliest  convenience." 

"Why  doesn't  he  call  upon  me?"  asked  Zuleika. 

"I  expect  it's  easier  to  talk  privately  in  his  rooms,"  said  the 
manager  tactfully. 

Zuleika  was  mollified.  The  message  was  not  rapturous,  but  it  was 
polite  and  would  at  least  give  her  contact  with  a  university  per- 
sonage. 

"Where  does  the  Proctor  live?"  she  asked. 

"In  St  Benedict's." 

"Then  order  a  cab." 

"But,  excuse  me,  Miss  Dobson.  St  Benedict's  is  only  just  across 
the  road." 

"Oh  very  well,  but  it  is  tiring  to  walk  across  roads  in  the  strong 
sunshine.  .  .  .  Where  is  Melisande?" 

On  the  subject  of  proctors  Melisande  was  not  helpful.  If  they 
bore  any  resemblance  to  a  procurateur ,  she  recommended  avoidance. 

Zuleika  crossed  the  road  and  found  herself  at  the  main  gate  of  the 
college  of  St  Benedict.  A  dignified  porter,  wearing  a  silk  hat,  looked 
at  her  with  the  half-suspicious,  half-tolerant  expression  with  which 
he  greeted  all  May  Term  visitors. 

"The  Proctor  wishes  to  see  me,"  said  Zuleika  simply. 

"You  mean  Mr  Mackenzie,  Miss.  K  Old  Court." 

Zuleika  was  not  enlightened.  The  description  reminded  her 
vaguely  of  a  move  at  chess. 

"Through  the  screens,  Miss,"  said  the  porter  helpfully.  But  still 
Zuleika  was  at  a  loss.  The  porter  realised  that  he  had  to  deal  with  the 
really  hopeless  May  Term  type.  He  walked  far  enough  with  Zuleika 
to  show  her  the  precise  approach  to  Mr  Mackenzie's  staircase. 


ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE  123 

Brian  Mackenzie,  formerly  of  the  University  of  Aberdeen,  and 
now  Fellow  and  Mathematical  Lecturer  of  St  Benedict's  and  Senior 
Proctor  in  the  University,  was  a  man  of  tidy  mind  and  tidy  habits. 
He  had  no  love  of  the  office  of  Proctor,  but  he  had  recognised  the 
obligation  to  serve  and  he  had  come  through  the  greater  part  of  his 
year  of  office  without  any  major  scandal  or  disturbance.  He  had  a 
reputation  for  courtesy,  dignity  and  efficiency. 

What  he  had  heard  from  Oxford  in  the  preceding  twenty-four 
hours  had  filled  him  with  incredulous  astonishment.  He  had  been 
convinced  that  the  daily  press,  following  its  invariable  practice  of 
putting  Oxford  in  the  headlines  and  Cambridge  in  the  University 
Intelligence,  had  grossly  exaggerated  the  devastation  produced  by 
the  visit  of  Zuleika  to  Judas  College.  Nevertheless,  when  the  news 
of  her  migration  to  Cambridge  reached  him,  he  felt  that  he  must  act 
and  act  promptly.  He  had  called  upon  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  sug- 
gested that  he  should  summon  a  special  meeting  of  the  Proctorial 
Syndicate.  The  Vice-Chancellor  was  disturbed.  As  Full  Term  drew 
to  an  end,  he  liked  to  resume  his  collation  of  certain  Syriac  frag- 
ments which  seemed  to  embody  a  dialect  hitherto  unknown  to 
scholars  and  he  hoped  shortly  to  complete  an  article  on  the  subject 
for  The  Journal  of  Oriental  Studies.  He,  too,  had  heard  something 
about  strange  happenings  at  the  other  university,  but  when  he  had 
caught  sight  of  a  headline  "Oxford  Sensation"  he  had  shuddered 
slightly  and  put  the  newspaper  down.  The  description  of  an  event 
as  a  "sensation"  always  produced  in  him  a  feeling  of  incipient  nausea. 
However,  he  trusted  Mackenzie's  judgment  and  a  meeting  of  the 
Proctorial  Syndicate  had  been  convened  for  five  o'clock. 

Mackenzie's  aim  was  clear.  He  wanted  to  remove  Zuleika  from 
Cambridge  as  quickly  and  as  quietly  as  possible.  Sceptical  as  he  was 
about  the  measure  of  disaster  which  she  had  brought  upon  Oxford, 
he  desired  above  all  things  to  see  her  safely  in  a  Liverpool  Street 
train.  It  was  a  policy  he  had  pursued  with  some  success,  during  his 
year  of  office,  in  relation  to  female  immigrants  of  a  different  type. 
"Let  us  have  a  minimum  of  fuss,"  he  used  to  say  at  proctorial  con- 
ferences. As  a  mathematician,  Mackenzie  had  a  reputation  for  neat- 
ness rather  than  for  elegance. 

He  rose  to  greet  Zuleika. 

"Ah,  Miss  Dobson,  this  is  very  kind  of  you.  Won't  you  sit  down?" 

Zuleika  sat  down  slowly  and  looked  round  the  room,  at  its  book- 
shelves heavy  with  treatises  on  Octonions  and  Invariants  and  Peri- 
odic Functions  and  Sets  of  Points  and  Twisted  Cubics,  all  in  massive 
dark  blue  bindings;  at  the  mantelpiece  with  its  neat  array  of  pipes 


124  S.   C.  ROBERTS 

and  fixture-cards;  at  the  pile  of  Proceedings  of  the  London  Mathe- 
matical Society  on  a  side  table;  at  the  faded  Persian  hearth-rug  and 
the  deep  padded  chairs  on  each  side  of  it. 

"So  you  are  the  Proctor,"  said  Zuleika. 
I  am. 

"You  sent  for  me.  Why  do  you  want  me?" 

"I  wished  to  have  a  talk  with  you." 

"And  you  could  not  brook  delay?" 

"Miss  Dobson,  it  was  important  that  I  should  have  an  opportunity 
of  speaking  to  you  and,  in  particular,  that  I  should  take  the  oppor- 
tunity before  five  o'clock  this  afternoon." 

"So  soon?  Do  you  wish  to  die  for  me  at  five  o'clock?" 

Mackenzie  was  irritated.  Either  the  girl  was  a  lunatic  or  she  was 
trying  to  make  a  fool  of  him.  In  either  case  she  was  wasting  time. 

"I  have  no  wish,"  he  began,  "to  enter  into  unnecessary  detail.  But 
as  an  official  of  the  University  responsible  for  the  discipline  and  good 
behaviour  of  undergraduates " 

"Oxford  undergraduates  behave  divinely." 

"Outside  Cambridge  I  have  no  jurisdiction,"  said  Mackenzie  a 
little  sharply. 

"Has  the  college  ghost  walked?"  asked  Zuleika. 

Mackenzie  was  for  a  moment  thrown  out  of  his  official  stride.  In 
any  other  college  the  question  might  have  been  disregarded  as  a  piece 
of  frivolous  irrelevance.  But  the  St  Benedict's  ghost  was  famous.  It 
was  the  only  one  which  had  crept  into  the  guide-books. 

"An  ancient  college  like  this  accumulates  much  curious  tradi- 
tion," said  Mackenzie,  temporising. 

"Will  it  walk  at  five  o'clock?"  asked  Zuleika,  disregarding  the 
generalisation. 

"I  have  never  seen  it,"  said  Mackenzie  curtly. 

"And  did  the  black  owls  perch  on  the  battlements  last  night,  hoot- 
ing until  the  dawn?" 

Again,  Mackenzie  was  unfortunate.  The  owls  which  favoured  the 
elm-trees  within  the  precincts  of  the  college  on  the  opposite  side  of 
the  street  were  becoming  an  intolerable  nuisance  to  light  sleepers 
in  St  Benedict's.  At  a  recent  college  meeting  Mackenzie  had  urged 
that  a  strong  letter  of  protest  should  be  addressed  to  the  governing 
body  of  the  offending  college. 

"May  we  not  return  to  the  subject  of  our  discussion?"  he  said 
politely. 

"But  what  is  the  subject?"  asked  Zuleika. 

"In  a  word— yourself,"  said  Mackenzie  with  great  suavity. 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  125 

"At  Oxford  they  did  not  summon  me  to  discussions.  They  just 
died  for  me.  Do  you  wish  to  die  for  me— at  five  o'clock?" 

'Tor  that  hour,  my  dear  Miss  Dobson,  I  already  have  a  more  vital 
engagement.  The  Vice-Chancellor  has  agreed  to  preside  over  a  spe- 
cial meeting  of  the  Proctorial  Syndicate." 

"What  is  the  meeting  for?" 

Mackenzie  took  up  a  piece  of  paper  from  his  writing-table. 

"The  draft  of  the  terms  of  reference  which  I  have  ventured  to  pro- 
pose to  the  Vice-Chancellor  is  here.  I  will  read  it  to  you:  'To  con- 
sider the  steps  to  be  taken  to  meet  the  situation  arising  out  of  the 
arrival  in  Cambridge  of  a  stranger  alleged  to  have  caused  grave  dis- 
turbance in  another  university.'  That,  of  course,  is  a  draft  and  sub- 
ject to  amendment.  But  it  may  serve  to  show  that  the  University  is 
likely  to  take  a  serious  view." 

"But  aren't  Universities  always  serious?"  asked  Zuleika  humbly. 

"The  University  has  a  variety  of  functions  to  perform,"  replied 
Mackenzie. 

"And  what  does  a  Syndicate  perform?" 

"I  have  no  wish  to  weary  you,  Miss  Dobson,  with  the  detail  of 
academic  procedure.  But  if  I  can  inform  the  Vice-Chancellor  and 
the  Syndicate  at  five  o'clock  that  you  agree  with  the  course  I  am 
about  to  propose " 

"You  are  about  to  propose?"  repeated  Zuleika  with  wide-open 
eyes. 

"I  am  about  to  propose  that  you  should  leave  Cambridge  by  the 
6.25  train." 

"But  I  have  only  just  arrived." 

"My  dear  Miss  Dobson,  I  will  refrain  from  the  obvious  retort, 
which  no  doubt  would  have  been  made  in  Oxford,  of  the  greater 
benefit  of  travelling  hopefully.  I  have  no  wish  to  indulge  in  exag- 
gerated censure,  but  in  my  position  I  am  bound  to  safeguard  the 
University  against  risk." 

"Risk  of  what?" 

"Risk  of— er— disturbance  of  the  undergraduate  population." 

Zuleika  was  growing  weary.  The  conversation  had  taken  on  a 
staccato  quality. 

"Are  you  going  to  offer  me  tea?"  she  enquired. 

Momentarily  taken  aback,  Mackenzie  made  a  quick  recovery.  He 
had  no  wide  experience  of  negotiations  with  females,  for,  in  Edvar- 
dian  times,  ladies  did  not  sit  upon  Faculty  Boards.  But  he  knew  that, 
just  as  valuable  concessions  in  academic  negotiation  could  be  most 
successfully  secured  after  the  port  had  travelled  twice  round  the 


126  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

table,  so,  with  women,  it  was  necessary  to  conduct  really  important 
business  over  the  tea-cups. 

Normally  he  did  not  take  afternoon  tea  himself.  His  gyp  did  not 
report  to  him  until  6  o'clock.  It  would  be  necessary  for  him  to  visit 
the  buttery  himself.  "But,  of  course,"  he  said  amiably,  "excuse  me 
for  a  moment." 

When  he  reached  the  buttery,  he  found  the  main  door  locked.  He 
tried  the  side  door  to  the  butler's  private  room,  but  the  room  was 
empty.  Shortly  a  buttery-boy,  only  recently  engaged,  appeared.  Mac- 
kenzie stated  his  wants.  The  boy  stated  in  reply  that  the  buttery 
staff  would  "come  on"  in  about  ten  minutes'  time. 

"I  want  tea  for  two  and  cakes— in  my  rooms  at  once,"  said  Mac- 
kenzie. 

"What  sort  of  cakes?"  asked  the  boy. 

"Oh— the  best  sort,"  said  Mackenzie. 

"I'll  tell  them,"  said  the  boy.  It  was  all  he  could  do.  Meanwhile 
Zuleika  sat  in  Mackenzie's  rooms.  She  was  bored.  She  could  not 
follow  very  clearly  all  the  talk  about  Vice-Chancellors  and  Syndi- 
cates and  she  certainly  did  not  intend  to  leave  by  the  6.25.  She 
wanted  to  learn  what  Cambridge  men  were  like  and  poor  Mackenzie 
seemed  to  her  to  be  not  so  much  a  man  as  a  piece  of  official  mecha- 
nism. A  phrase  came  into  her  head.  It  had  been  spoken  to  her  in  her 
early  days  of  struggle  by  an  unsympathetic  employer:  "No  good  pur- 
pose will  be  served  by  prolonging  this  interview."  Zuleika  felt  that 
it  was  apt.  She  went  out. 

"Find  Mr  Mackenzie  all  right,  Miss?"  said  the  porter  cheerfully. 

"Yes,  thank  you— and  lost  him." 

Ill 

Zuleika  stood  at  the  gate  of  St  Benedict's  and  turned  her  steps  to- 
wards the  hotel.  Then  she  changed  her  mind  and  turned  in  the 
opposite  direction.  The  hotel  held  no  attraction  for  her.  Instead, 
she  gazed  wonderingly  at  a  Gothic  pile  which  faced  her  on  the  op- 
posite side  of  the  street.  She  was  unable  to  determine  whether  it  was 
a  college  or  a  church.  There  was  no  one  to  tell  her  that  it  was  just 
a  printing-house. 

So  she  went  on  and  came  to  a  gateway  which  must  surely  betoken 
another  college.  Was  it  full  of  more  Mackenzies,  she  wondered.  At 
that  moment  a  young  man  came  out  of  the  college.  He  caught  sight 
of  Zuleika  and  stopped.  A  light  of  thrilled  recognition  came  into  his 
eye. 


ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE  127 

"Excuse  me,"  he  said,  "but  aren't  you  Miss  Dobson,  Miss  Zuleika 
Dobson?" 

Zuleika  looked  at  the  young  man  through  her  long  lashes.  Who 
could  he  be?  Someone  who  had  escaped  from  Oxford  and  followed 
her  across?  Or  had  he  merely  seen  her  picture  in  the  illustrated 
papers?  If  so,  his  effrontery  must  be  crushed. 

"That  is  my  name,"  she  said,  "but  I  do  not  think  I  have  the 
pleasure " 

"Oh,  of  course,  you  wouldn't  remember  me.  But  you  might  con- 
ceivably remember  giving  a  sort  of  semi-private  show  at  the  Jacobean 
Club  at  Yale  last  year.  I  was  living  at  Yale  at  the  same  time  and 
shook  hands  with  you  after  the  show.  But  of  course  you  don't  re- 
member. Why  should  you?" 

"Why  should  you  remember  me?" 

"Because  .  .  .  well,  you're  Zuleika  Dobson  and  I'm  just  Desmond 
Hawkins  of  Valence  Hall." 

"Are  you  a  Proctor?" 

Hawkins  burst  into  laughter. 

"Heavens,  no!  I've  just  come  back  for  a  fifth  year,  trying  to  write 
a  thesis  for  a  fellowship,  you  know." 

But  Zuleika  didn't  know  anything  about  fellowship  theses. 

"Five  years  seems  a  long  time,"  she  said,  "I  haven't  been  in  Cam- 
bridge for  five  hours  yet." 

"Where  are  you  staying?" 

"I'm  not  sure  that  I  am  staying.  They  want  to  send  me  away  by 
the  6.25  train." 

"Who  wants  to?" 

"The  Syndicate." 

"What  Syndicate?" 

"I  don't  know,"  said  Zuleika  wearily.  "I  don't  know  anything 
about  Cambridge.  It  seems  so  different  from " 

"Yes,  I  know  what  you're  going  to  say.  It  is  different,  I  know.  But, 
Miss  Dobson,  do  tell  me.  There's  an  absurd  rumour  going  round 
about  everyone  at  Oxford  dying  for  you.  I  suppose  it's  just  another 
Oxford  legend  written  up  by  some  clever  journalist.  Do  tell  me 
about  it." 

Zuleika  looked  in  some  astonishment  at  the  amused,  enquiring, 
and  ingenuous  countenance  of  Desmond  Hawkins.  He  was  recover- 
ing from  his  initial  shyness  and  was  now  nearly  at  his  ease.  It  was 
evident  that  he  admired  her,  but  it  was  equally  evident  that  he  did 
not  believe  in  the  Oxford  stories.  He  was  polite  and  charming,  but 
he  was  not  prostrate  before  her. 


128  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

"Oxford  indeed  has  died  for  me,"  she  said  in  the  voice  of  a 
tragedy-queen,  "in  Cambridge  I  am  dying  for  a  cup  of  tea." 

Hawkins  was  startled.  Had  the  fierce  afternoon  sunshine  been  too 
much  for  Zuleika?  Or  was  she  merely  thirsty? 

"Miss  Dobson,"  he  said  eagerly,  "if  you'd  really  do  me  the  honour 
of  having  tea  in  my  rooms,  I  should  be  proud,  of  course,  and 
delighted." 

"Lead  me  to  them,"  said  Zuleika. 

They  went  over  the  cobbles,  which  Zuleika  disliked  very  much, 
and  turned  into  a  tiny  cloister.  Hawkins  led  the  way  up  a  narrow 
staircase  and  Zuleika  followed  him.  She  found  herself  in  an  untidy, 
but  cosy  room.  There  were  several  comfortable  chairs.  One  of  them 
was  burdened  with  a  pile  of  books,  another  with  a  tennis  racket, 
another  with  a  pair  of  flannel  trousers,  which  Hawkins  flung  hastily 
into  his  bedroom. 

Zuleika  sank  into  the  chair  thus  disencumbered. 

"This  is  grand,"  said  Hawkins. 

Whatever  other  qualities  the  scene  might  hold,  Zuleika  felt  that 
the  element  of  grandeur  was  lacking. 

"What  is  grand?"  she  murmured. 

"Why,  being  able  to  persuade  you  to  come  and  have  tea  with  me 
like  this." 

"Like  what?" 

"Well,  informally  and  .  .  .  (Hawkins  blushed  slightly)  alone." 

"Then  you  are  not  afraid?" 

"Afraid?  Oh,  you're  harking  back  to  that  Oxford  rumour?  No,  I'm 
sorry,  Miss  Dobson,  but  candidly  I  don't  feel  a  bit  like  dying.  I'd 
much  rather  go  on  living  and " 

"And ?"  Zuleika's  lips  were  parted. 

"And  get  you  some  tea." 

Zuleika  sank  back  into  the  chair. 

"That,"  she  said,  "would  be  a  very  admirable  thing  to  do." 

Hawkins  began  operations  upon  his  Primus  stove.  It  was,  fortu- 
nately, in  good  order. 

"If  you  don't  mind  waiting  half  a  minute,  I'll  just  pop  across  to 
the  buttery  and  get  something  to  eat." 

For  the  second  time  in  half  an  hour  Zuleika  was  left  alone  in  col- 
lege rooms.  This  time  she  had  no  desire  to  escape.  Her  host  offered 
little  of  excitement  or  romance,  but  at  least  he  did  not  talk  gibberish 
about  syndicates  and  terms  of  reference. 

Hawkins  re-appeared  in  a  few  minutes.  He  had  given  some  quite 
precise  orders  about  the  food  to  be  sent  to  his  rooms.  In  particular 


ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE  129 

he  had  made  certain  that  the  toast  should  be  what  was  known  in  the 
college  as  "fellows'  toast,"  neat  little  crustless  triangles  with  just  the 
right  amount  of  butter  evenly  spread,  not  the  solid  slabs  moistened 
in  the  middle  which  were  commonly  served  to  undergraduates.  Also 
he  made  a  point  of  ordering  a  few  slices  of  lemon. 

"Ah,  the  kettle  is  nearly  boiling,"  he  said  cheerfully.  "As  it  hap- 
pens, I  have  some  China  tea.  You'd  prefer  that,  wouldn't  you?" 

"Yes,  I  think  I  should." 

"And  you  also  prefer  a  slice  of  lemon  to  milk?" 

"Yes.  Don't  you?" 

"No,  I  can't  stand  it,  but  I  felt  sure  you  would." 

"Why?" 

"Well,  you're  that  sort." 

"What  sort?" 

"Well,  shall  we  say,  a  little  .  .  .  exotic?" 

"And  what  precisely  does  the  word  'exotic'  signify?" 

"Oh,  I  say,  you  mustn't  press  me  too  hard.  Anyhow,  it's  the  oppo- 
site of  'dowdy.'  " 

"I  am  relieved,"  said  Zuleika,  "to  find  that  I  am  not  dowdy." 

The  kettle  boiled,  Hawkins  made  the  tea,  and  a  buttery-boy  en- 
tered with  a  number  of  dishes. 

"What  will  you  have  to  eat?  Toast?"  asked  Hawkins. 

"A  tiny  piece,"  said  Zuleika.  But  in  fact  she  ate  four. 

"How  about  a  sandwich  now?"  said  Hawkins. 

"A  sandwich?"  cried  Zuleika,  visualising  the  crude  layers  of  ham 
dear  to  masculine  appetite. 

"Oh,  come,"  said  Hawkins,  "these  are  really  rather  tasty."  He  held 
before  her  a  plate  of  diminutive  confections  at  the  heart  of  which 
was  Gentleman's  Relish  or,  alternatively,  pate  de  foie  gras. 

"Or  there  are  these  little  things  if  you  prefer  them,"  Hawkins  went 
on,  indicating  coffee  eclairs  of  small  size  but  agreeable  texture. 

Zuleika  made  a  triple  surrender. 

"To  take  tea  with  you,  Mr.  Hawkins,"  she  said,  "is  an  agreeable 
experience,  but  to  repeat  it  would  be  to  ruin  my  figure." 

"I  don't  believe  it,  Miss  Dobson— ,  I  mean  about  your  figure.  But 
it's  been  wonderful  to  be  able  to  entertain  you  for  a  few  minutes 
like  this." 

Zuleika  rose. 

"Can  I  escort  you  anywhere,  Miss  Dobson?  I  expect  you  may  want 
to  rest  a  bit.  No  doubt  you  have  a  lot  of  engagements  here." 

"I  know  no  one  in  Cambridge,"  said  Zuleika. 

"No  one?  Then  why " 


130  S.  C.   ROBERTS 

"Why  indeed  did  I  come  to  Cambridge?  Yes,  you  are  entitled  to 
ask  that.  They  did  wonderful  things  for  me  in  Oxford,  but  in  retro- 
spect I  cannot  help  feeling  that  they  overdid  them.  The  art  of  dying 
for  me  ceased,  I  fear,  to  be  an  art.  It  degenerated  into  a  stampede. 
Nothing,  as  they  say  in  Oxford,  impedes  like  excess." 

"D'you  really  mean,  Miss  Dobson,  that  you're  free  of  engagements 
for  this  evening,  for  instance?" 

"I  am  free  of  everything  except  my  memories,"  said  Zuleika.  "Up 
to  now  I  have  looked  forward  always,  but  now  there  is  nothing  left 
but  retrospect." 

"Then,  if  it  isn't  too  bold  on  my  part  to  suggest  it,  would  you  care 
to  dine  with  me?" 

"Here?"  asked  Zuleika. 

"Well,  no.  You  see,  my  rooms  are  not  really  large  enough  for  a 
party,  but  to-night,  as  it  happens,  Duxberry  (one  of  the  younger 
dons  here)  and  his  wife  and  a  few  others  are  dining  with  me  in  the 
Guest  Room  and  after  dinner  we're  going  to  move  across  to  another 
man's  rooms.  Quite  a  friendly  and  informal  affair.  No  fuss.  It  would 
be  wonderful  if  you  could  join  us." 

Zuleika  looked  across  at  Hawkins.  His  enthusiasm  was  obvious, 
but  it  was  the  enthusiasm  of  youth  in  anticipation  of  a  good  lark. 
She  reflected  quietly  which  frock  in  her  wardrobe  would  most 
suitably  accord  with  the  atmosphere  of  "no  fuss."  The  dove-grey, 
perhaps?  Or  should  she  heighten  the  effect  by  wearing  the  flame- 
coloured  dress  with  .  .  .  ?  But  suddenly  she  realised  that  she  was 
choosing  her  dress  before  she  had  decided  whether  to  accept  the 
invitation. 

"But  your  party,  surely,  is  made  up?"  she  temporised. 

"It  was.  But  it  will  be  eternally  incomplete  unless " 

"I  will  come,"  said  Zuleika. 

IV 

When  Mackenzie  returned  to  his  rooms  and  found  them  empty, 
he  was  annoyed.  He  could  not  really  believe  that  Zuleika  was  prowl- 
ing round  his  bedroom,  but  he  looked  in  to  make  sure  and  came  to 
the  conclusion,  quite  correctly,  that  Zuleika  had  quietly  given  him 
the  slip.  He  hurried  down  to  the  porter's  lodge. 

"Has  a  lady  just  left  the  college,  Barnicott?" 

"Yes,  Sir." 

"Which  way  did  she  go?" 

"'Went  along  to  the  right,  Sir." 


ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE  131 

For  a  moment  Mackenzie  thought  of  dashing  off  in  pursuit,  since 
it  seemed  clear  that  Zuleika  had  returned  to  her  hotel.  But  he  noted 
a  rather  curious  look  on  the  porter's  face  and  refrained. 

"Anything  I  can  do,  Sir?" 

"Not  at  present,  thank  you,  Barnicott.  I  may  want  to  send  a  mes- 
sage later." 

"Very  good,  Sir." 

On  his  way  back  to  his  rooms  Mackenzie  remembered  to  cancel  his 
order  at  the  buttery. 

It  would,  he  reflected,  be  undignified  to  pursue  Zuleika  at  the  mo- 
ment. Her  disappearance  suggested  either  that  she  was  frightened  or 
that  she  was  up  to  some  mischief.  He  confessed  to  himself  that  he 
thought  the  latter  alternative  more  probable.  However,  he  had  at 
any  rate  succeeded  in  interviewing  her  and  in  giving  her  warning; 
he  would  be  in  a  reasonably  strong  position  at  the  meeting  of  the 
Proctorial  Syndicate. 

The  Vice-Chancellor  took  the  chair  punctually,  but  with  an  air 
of  mild  grievance,  at  five  o'clock. 

He  must  apologise,  he  said,  for  summoning  a  meeting  of  the  Syn- 
dicate at  such  an  unusual  time  and  at  such  short  notice.  But  circum- 
stances of  a  peculiar  nature  had  arisen  which  had  given  rise  to  grave 
apprehension  in  the  mind  of  the  Senior  Proctor.  Such  apprehensions 
were  due  to  reports,  not  at  present  wholly  substantiated,  of  events  of 
a  somewhat  alarming  character  which  had  occurred,  or  were  alleged 
to  have  occurred,  within  the  precincts  of  the  sister  university.  In  thus 
adumbrating  the  general  situation  the  last  thing  he  would  wish  to  do 
would  be  to  prejudge,  in  any  particular,  the  issues  which  lay  before 
the  Syndicate.  He  would  therefore  call  upon  the  Senior  Proctor. 

The  Senior  Proctor  bowed  slightly  to  the  Vice-Chancellor  and 
cleared  his  throat.  He  had  no  wish  to  take  up  the  time  of  the  Syndi- 
cate and  would  be  as  brief  as  possible.  Information  had  reached  him 
in  the  course  of  the  morning  concerning  the  recent  visit  of  a  Miss 
Zuleika  Dobson  to  the  University  of  Oxford— a  lady  rumoured, 
though  he  could  with  difficulty  credit  the  rumour,  to  be  closely  re- 
lated to  one  of  the  best  known  and  most  widely  esteemed  Heads  of 
Houses  in  that  university.  Detailed  reports,  as  the  Vice-Chancellor 
had  observed,  were  not  at  present  forthcoming,  but  on  the  evidence 
available  it  appeared  that  the  lady's  influence  among  the  junior 
members  of  the  university  had  been  of  the  most  extraordinary  and 
devastating  character.  After  every  allowance  had  been  made  for  jour- 
nalistic exaggeration  it  appeared  tolerably  certain  that  not  a  few  un- 
dergraduate members  of  Oxford  colleges,  following  the  lead  of  a 


132  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

somewhat  eccentric  nobleman,  had  deliberately  drowned  themselves 
on  account  of  this  young  woman. 

"Don't  believe  a  word  of  it!"  interrupted  Simpkins,  a  young  clas- 
sical don  from  Jesus,  who  was  coaching  one  of  his  college  boats  and 
resented  being  dragged  to  the  meeting  at  a  most  inconvenient  hour. 

Mackenzie,  continuing,  recognised  that  such  an  attitude  of  hasty 
incredulity  could  well  be  understood,  but  suggested  that  Mr  Simp- 
kins  might  suitably  suspend  judgment  for  the  moment.  The  Syndi- 
cate, indeed,  might  feel  at  this  point  that  however  deeply  they  might 
commiserate  with  the  sister  university  in  her  misfortune,  the  matter 
was  officially  no  concern  of  theirs  (Hear,  hear).  Unfortunately,  it 
was  impossible  for  the  University  to  take  up  such  a  position  of 
detachment. 

Mackenzie  paused.  The  Syndicate  was  listening  to  him  now. 

"I  regret  to  have  to  inform  the  Syndicate,"  he  concluded,  "that  the 
young  lady  in  question  is  now  in  our  midst." 

"How  do  you  know?"  blurted  Simpkins. 

Mackenzie  played  his  trump  card. 

"Because  I  interviewed  her  in  my  rooms  two  hours  ago." 

"Then  why "  Simpkins  began. 

The  Vice-Chancellor  interposed. 

"I  am  sure  the  Syndicate  and  indeed  the  University  will  be  most 
grateful  to  the  Senior  Proctor  for  the  great  care  and  promptitude 
which  he  has  shown  in  approaching  this  difficult  problem.  As  to  any 
further  course  of  action  to  be  followed,  I  am  of  course  in  the  hands 
of  the  Syndicate." 

"Could  we  be  informed,  Mr  Vice-Chancellor,  of  our  precise  terms 
of  reference?"  asked  the  Vice-Master  of  Emmanuel. 

The  Vice-Chancellor  looked  a  little  perplexed,  but  Mackenzie 
promptly  handed  him  a  slip  of  paper. 

"It  is  suggested,"  said  the  Vice-Chancellor,  "that  our  business 
might  be  summarised  in  the  following  terms:  'To  consider  the  steps 
to  be  taken  to  meet  the  situation  arising  out  of  the  arrival  in  Cam- 
bridge of  a  stranger  alleged  to  have  caused  grave  disturbance  in  an- 
other university.'  " 

"Could  the  Senior  Proctor  tell  us  where  the  stranger  is  now?" 
asked  Simpkins. 

Mackenzie  looked  a  little  uncomfortable. 

"She  is  staying  at  a  hotel  not  far  from  my  own  college,"  he  replied. 

"Is  she  there  now?" 

"I  believe  so." 

"Mr  Vice-Chancellor,"  said  Simpkins,  "may  we  have  this  point 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  133 

cleared  up  a  little?  We  know  that  two  hours  ago  the  lady  was  in  the 
Senior  Proctor's  rooms.  But  where  is  she  now?  For  all  we  know, 
while  we  are  talking,  she  may  be  submerging  freshmen  right  and 
left!" 

"Mr  Simpkins,  please,"  said  the  Vice-Chancel  lor  reproachfully. 

"I  have  already  made  it  clear,"  said  Mackenzie,  "that  the  lady  is 
in  all  probability  in  her  hotel." 

"Probabilities,"  said  the  Junior  Proctor,  a  logician  from  Sidney 
Sussex,  "seem  to  be  an  unsatisfactory  basis  for  a  policy  of  action. 
But,  assuming  for  the  moment  that  the  Proctors  are  successful  in 
getting  hold  of  the  lady,  may  I  enquire  what  we  are  to  do  with  her?" 

"Put  her  into  the  train  for  Liverpool  Street,"  said  Mackenzie. 

"Under  what  Ordinance?"  asked  the  Registrary,  who  had  attended 
the  meeting  at  the  Vice-Chancellor's  request. 

"Surely  the  Proctors  have  summary  powers  in  dealing  with  certain 
kinds  of  women?"  said  Mackenzie. 

"This  seems  to  be  an  uncertain  kind,"  replied  the  Registrary  tone- 
lessly. 

"Aren't  we  beating  about  the  bush?"  interposed  Simpkins.  "What 
I  want  to  know  is  this:  is  the  woman  a  bad  lot  or  not?" 

The  Vice-Chancellor  coughed. 

"Perhaps,"  he  said  wanly,  "the  Senior  Proctor  would  .  .  ."  His 
voice  faded. 

"I  really  cannot  undertake  to  give  a  categorical  answer  to  Mr 
Simpkins'  question,"  said  Mackenzie. 

"But  you  have  talked  to  her  in  your  own  rooms,  alone,  haven't 
you?"  retorted  Simpkins. 

Doctor  Blenkinsop,  Maitland  Professor  of  Civil  Law,  spoke  for  the 
first  time: 

"With  respect,  Mr  Vice-Chancellor,  I  venture  to  think  the  discus- 
sion has  strayed  a  little  from  the  main  issue.  While  I  would  not  sug- 
gest that  the  character  of  the  lady  is  wholly  irrelevant  to  the  argu- 
ment, it  appears  to  me  that  there  are  two  main  questions  to  be 
determined:  first,  whether  it  is  desirable  that  action  should  be  taken 
to  remove  the  lady  from  the  precincts;  and  secondly,  if  the  desira- 
bility of  such  action  should  be  established,  under  what  authority  it 
should  be  taken.  It  is  clearly  not  a  case,  in  my  submission,  for  the 
Sex  Viri  or  for  the  Court  of  Discipline  and,  as  at  present  advised,  I 
should  hesitate  to  subscribe  to  the  view  that  the  Proctors  have  any 
right  of  summary  jurisdiction  in  such  a  case." 

The  Vice-Master  of  Emmanuel  said  that  everything  Professor 
Blenkinsop  had  said  ought  to  be  very  carefully  weighed.  For  his  own 


134  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

part  he  was  beginning  to  doubt  whether  the  question  before  them 
could  be  satisfactorily  examined  by  a  body  like  the  present  Syndi- 
cate and,  notwithstanding  the  very  natural  desire  of  the  responsible 
officials  to  proceed  without  undue  delay,  he  could  not  help  wonder- 
ing whether  the  most  satisfactory  course  might  not  be  the  appoint- 
ment of  a  small  committee. 

"A  committee  of  this  Syndicate  or  a  body  appointed  ad  hoc?" 
asked  the  Registrary. 

"Ad  hoc  and  de  novo,  I  suggest,"  replied  the  Vice-Master,  though 
he  was  at  pains  to  add  that  he  had  not  fully  thought  out  the  most 
appropriate  constitution  for  the  suggested  committee. 

"Mr  Vice-Chancellor,"  said  Greville  of  Trinity,  who  was  sitting 
next  to  Simpkins  and  had  had  much  whispered  conversation  with 
him,  "may  I  with  great  respect  enquire  whether  we  are  really  getting 
anywhere?" 

"I  had  understood,"  replied  the  Vice-Chancellor,  "though  of  course 
I  am  open  to  correction  by  the  Syndicate,  I  had  understood  that  the 
Vice-Master  of  Emmanuel  desired  to  formulate  a  motion.  If  such  a 
motion  should  be  seconded,  perhaps  Professor  Blenkinsop  might  find 
it  convenient  to  express  his  views  in  the  form  of  an  amendment." 

But  the  Professor  was  understood  to  reply  that,  on  reconsidera- 
tion, he  felt  that,  as  major  questions  of  academic  policy  might  now 
be  involved,  it  would  be  better  to  refer  the  whole  question  to  the 
Council  of  the  Senate. 

"Mr  Vice-Chancellor,"  Simpkins  broke  in,  "if  this  matter  is  really 
urgent,  can't  we  do.  something  instead  of  just  talking  about  com- 
mittees?" 

"Do  I  now  understand,"  asked  the  Vice-Chancellor  plaintively, 
"that  the  Vice-Master  of  Emmanuel's  motion  is  not  seconded?" 

"In  view  of  the  turn  the  discussion  has  taken,"  replied  the  Vice- 
Master,  "I  am  hardly  prepared  to  make  a  formal  motion." 

"In  that  case,"  said  Simpkins,  "I  beg  to  move  that  as  the  Senior 
Proctor  has  apparently  caught  the  lady  once  and  then  let  her  slip 
through  his  fingers,  he  had  better  try  again,  with  the  aid  of  his  bull- 
dogs if  necessary,  and  then  tell  us  more  about  it." 

"I  second  that,"  said  Greville  quickly. 

"Mr  Simpkins  moves,  and  Mr  Greville  seconds,  that Perhaps 

the  Registrary  will  give  us  the  exact  wording." 

The  Registrary  read  from  his  notes: 

"That  the  Senior  Proctor  be  requested  to  take  immediate  steps  to 
gain  further  information,  at  first-hand,  of  a  certain  visitor;  and  to 
report  to  the  Syndicate  thereon." 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  135 

"May  I  ask  for  a  show  of  hands?"  said  the  Vice-Chancellor. 

Three  hands  went  up. 

"Those  against?" 

No  hands  were  raised. 

"Hardly  a  majority  of  the  Syndicate,  I  am  afraid,"  said  the  Vice- 
Chancellor  sadly,  "but  nevertheless  nernine  contradicente.  No  doubt 
the  Senior  Proctor  is  now  fully  seized  of  the  sense  of  the  meeting,  and 
I  feel  sure  that  he  will  very  kindly  undertake  to  report  to  us  in  due 
course.  The  Syndicate  will  adjourn." 

V 

Zuleika's  hansom  drew  up  at  the  front  gate  of  Valence  Hall.  Meli- 
sande  was  with  her,  carrying  a  pair  of  goloshes  (or,  more  accurately, 
overshoes)  that  had  been  a  gift  from  a  Rubber  King  after  her  final 
performance  in  Milwaukee.  They  were  lined  with  swan's  down  and 
bore  Zuleika's  initials  studded  in  diamonds.  Melisande  slipped  them 
over  her  mistress's  shoes  and  accompanied  her  over  the  cobblestones 
to  the  foot  of  the  staircase  which  led  to  the  Guest  Room. 

After  much  reflection  Zuleika  had  decided  to  wear  a  dress  of  deep 
wine-colour.  It  clung  closely  to  her  lithe  figure  and  was  wholly  lack- 
ing in  trimming  or  ornament.  Amongst  the  May  Term  muslins  its 
rich  and  sombre  plainness  produced  a  startling  effect.  Zuleika  wore 
no  jewelry  save  a  snake-bracelet  with  deep  ruby  eyes.  (It  had  been  a 
parting  tribute  from  the  Maharajah  of  Kurrigalore.) 

Hawkins  greeted  Zuleika  with  an  air  of  subdued  excitement,  and 
introduced  his  other  guests— Duxberry  and  his  wife,  Davidson  (an 
undergraduate)  and  his  sister,  and  a  Newnham  history  don. 

"I'll  be  frank  with  you,  Miss  Dobson,"  he  said.  "I  had  to  get  a  man 
in  a  great  hurry  to  make  the  party  even.  He's  a  bit  late,  I'm  afraid, 
but  he's  coming  all  right." 

Zuleika  was  not  pleased.  She  had  deliberately  ordered  her  cab 
ten  minutes  late;  she  took  no  pleasure  in  making  a  penultimate 
entrance. 

"Mr  Simpkins,  Sir,"  announced  the  gyp  at  the  doorway. 

"Ah,  Simmy,"  said  Hawkins,  "that's  splendid." 

"Sorry  I'm  so  late,"  said  Simpkins,  "but  I've  had  to  waste  hours  at 
a  ridiculous  meeting  about  some  woman  who's  supposed  to  have " 

"May  I  introduce  Miss  Dobson,"  said  Hawkins,  quickly. 

Simpkins  gasped. 

"Miss  Zuleika  Dobson?"  he  asked. 

"Is  it  so  strange  a  name?"  said  Zuleika. 


136  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

"No,  no.  Not  strange  exactly.  Just  a  little— what  shall  I  say— coin- 
cidental." 

They  sat  down.  Zuleika  was,  of  course,  on  the  right  of  her  host; 
on  the  other  side  of  her  was  Simpkins.  Inevitably  Zuleika  compared 
the  scene  in  her  mind's  eye  with  her  initial  entertainment  by  the 
Warden  of  Judas.  How  different  was  the  familiar  gaiety  of  this  party 
round  the  oval  table  from  the  superb  and  icy  neglect  with  which  the 
Duke  had  treated  her  at  that  first  meeting.  This  was  a  party  sans 
ccrcmonie,  but,  as  the  dinner  progressed,  Zuleika  noted  with  satis- 
faction that  there  was  no  nonsense  about  "pot  luck":  the  vol-au-vent 
financier e  was  exquisite  and  the  creme  brulee  was  something  new  in 
Zuleika's  culinary  experience. 

Hawkins  did  not  say  much  to  Zuleika.  In  the  first  place  he  was 
conscious  of  his  obligation  to  Mrs  Duxberry  whose  chaperonage  had 
facilitated  the  making  of  the  party;  also,  the  cares  of  the  host  were 
upon  him  and  on  this  evening  he  felt  that  he  had  incurred  no  ordi- 
nary responsibilities.  Further,  he  had  a  slight  feeling  of  guilt,  since, 
but  for  Zuleika's  irruption,  he  would  have  had  next  to  him  David- 
son's pretty  sister.  Zuleika,  no  doubt,  would  have  been  quick  to  ob- 
serve something  of  this,  had  she  not  been  continuously  engaged  in 
conversation  by  Simpkins.  ■ 

Simpkins  knew  little  more  of  Zuleika  than  what  he  had  heard  at 
the  meeting  of  the  Proctorial  Syndicate;  but  this  party  was  going  to 
be  the  best  joke  of  the  term  for  him. 

"D'you  know  Cambridge  well,  Miss  Dobson?"  he  asked  innocently. 

"Can  one  know  a  place  well  in  a  few  hours?" 

"Hardly,  perhaps.  But  people  are  more  interesting  than  places, 
don't  you  think?" 

"I  am  weary  of  both,"  said  Zuleika,  mournfully. 

"Oh,  come,  Miss  Dobson,  don't  judge  us  too  hastily.  People  take 
their  colour  from  places  to  some  extent,  I  admit.  In  Oxford,  for 
instance,  a  party  like  this  might  look  very  much  the  same  at  first 
glance,  but  in  fact  the  people  would  be  fundamentally  different." 

"I  agree,"  said  Zuleika,  coldly. 

"Oh,  you  know  Oxford?"  said  Simpkins. 

Hawkins  had  caught  a  little  of  this  and  broke  in: 

"You're  barking  up  the  wrong  tree,  Simmy.  You  can't  teach  Miss 
Dobson  anything  about  Oxford." 

The  other  little  conversations  round  the  table  broke  off.  Simpkins 
was  about  to  retort,  but  Duxberry  slipped  in  a  word  from  the  end  of 
the  table. 


ZULEIKA  IN   CAMBRIDGE  137 

"I  hope,"  he  said  gallantly,  "that  we  shan't  try  to  teach  Miss  Dob- 
son  anything." 

"The  Warden  of  Judas  is  your  grandfather,  is  he  not,  Miss  Dob- 
son?"  said  the  Newnham  don. 

"He  is,"  said  Zuleika. 

"A  charming  old  gentleman,  I  believe,"  said  Mrs  Duxberry.  "My 
brother-in-law  stayed  with  him  last  term  when  he  was  preaching  the 
University  Sermon." 

Simpkins  was  enjoying  his  second  glass  of  Ruppertsberger. 

"I  daresay  my  conversational  gambits  are  clumsy  enough,"  he  said, 
"but  of  course  we  all  know  that  having  devastated  Oxford,  Miss  Dob- 
son  is  now  rapidly  making  us  her  slaves  in  Cambridge." 

"Do  you  know  the  Senior  Proctor?"  asked  Zuleika. 

Simpkins  laughed. 

"Poor  old  Mac,"  he  said.  "Yes,  you've  captivated  him." 

"But  he  didn't  seem  to  like  me  at  all,"  said  Zuleika.  "He  wanted 
to  send  me  to  Liverpool  Street." 

"He  might  at  least  have  chosen  King's  Cross,"  said  the  Newnham 
don. 

"Miss  Dobson,"  said  Hawkins,  "I  think  what  Mr  Simpkins  is  try- 
ing to  say  is  that  we're  all  delighted  to  have  you  with  us  in  Cam- 
bridge." 

"I  can  say  it  much  better  than  that,"  said  Simpkins.  "I'll  give  you 
a  toast.  The  divine  Zuleika  and  may  we  all  live  for  ever  to  do  her 
honour!" 

The  toast  was  drunk  and  they  moved  across  to  Davidson's  rooms. 
To  sit  down  in  re-arranged  pairs  seemed  something  of  an  anti- 
climax. 

"What  do  we  do  now?"  said  Simpkins,  irrepressibly.  "Sing?  Dance? 
Play  Consequences?  Have  you  any  parlour-tricks,  Miss  Dobson?" 

For  a  moment  Zuleika  suspected  a  further  attempt  at  leg-pulling. 
Furious,  she  gazed  at  Simpkins.  Simpkins  felt  that  he  had  never  seen 
anyone  half  so  beautiful.  He  even  blushed,  but  Zuleika  perceived 
that  it  was  not  a  blush  of  shame.  He  was,  in  fact,  unaware  of  Zu- 
leika's  professional  activities  and  Zuleika,  as  she  noted  his  rubicund 
adoration,  knew  that  she  had  nothing  to  forgive.  Why,  after  all, 
should  she  worry  overmuch  about  young  men  dying  for  her  if  there 
were  others  with  whom  she  could  enjoy  herself?  Surprised,  she  heard 
herself  saying: 

"Let's  play  charades." 

"Splendid,"  said  Hawkins,  much  relieved. 


138  S.   C.   ROBERTS 

"We're  not  a  very  large  party,"  said  Mrs  Duxberry.  "All  you  young 
people  must  act  and  Frank  and  I  will  be  the  audience." 

The  Newnham  don  brightened  a  little  at  this  and  they  trooped 
into  Davidson's  bedroom. 

The  usual  Babel  of  murmurs  about  the  choice  of  word  arose. 
Simpkins  cut  the  discussion  short. 

"Of  course,  there's  only  one  possible  word— Zu-leika!" 

"Two  syllables  or  three?"  asked  Hawkins. 

"Oh,  don't  bother  about  details  now.  Let's  find  some  costumes." 

Davidson's  wardrobe  was  ransacked. 

"Now,  for  the  first  syllable "  Simpkins  began. 

Heavy  footsteps  were  heard  and  then  a  knock  at  the  door. 

"You  can't  come  in  here.  We're  dressing  up,"  shouted  Simpkins. 

"Is  Mr  Hawkins  there?"  said  a  voice. 

Hawkins  opened  the  door  and  found  himself  facing  the  college 
porter. 

"I'm  sorry  to  disturb  your  party,  Sir,  but  the  Proctor's  down  be- 
low. He  wants  to  know  if  there's  a  Miss  Dobson  with  you." 

Hawkins  looked  embarrassed. 

"Tell  him  to  come  up,"  said  Simpkins,  "tell  him  he's  just  in  time 
for  the  fun,  tell  him  he  can  choose  what  part  he  likes,  tell  him " 

"Very  good,  Sir,"  said  the  porter. 

Mackenzie  arrived. 

"Hello,  Mac,"  cried  Simpkins,  "you're  just  in  time  for  a  little 
green  room  gossip.  Come  and  help  me  to  dress  as  the  King  of  Beasts." 

Mackenzie  blinked. 

"I  wish  to  see  a  Mr  Hawkins,"  he  said. 

"No,  you  don't,  Mac,"  said  Simpkins.  "What  you've  come  for  is 
to  renew  your  acquaintance  with  Miss  Dobson.  Here  she  is,  Mac, 
divinely  beautiful  and  divinely  ready  to  forgive  you." 

"Really,"  began  Mackenzie,  "I  have  no  wish  to  intrude  upon  a 
private  gathering,  but  in  accordance  with  the  Vice-Chancellor's  in- 
structions I  am  obliged  to " 

"Don't  worry,  Mac.  You've  nothing  to  do.  I've  made  all  the  fur- 
ther enquiries  myself.  Now  you  go  into  the  next  room  and  help  to 
swell  the  audience." 

Mackenzie  stared  helplessly  at  the  group  of  half-dressed  figures. 
Hawkins  came  forward. 

"Yes,  do  go  in,  Sir.  You'll  find  Mr  and  Mrs  Duxberry  there." 

So  Mackenzie  found  himself  talking  politely  to  Mrs  Duxberry 
about  his  plans  for  the  Long  Vacation  and  the  vacant  professorship 
of  Hebrew  and  the  forthcoming  concert  of  the  Fugue  Society  and 


ZULEIKA  IN  CAMBRIDGE  139 

other  seasonable  topics.  In  a  few  minutes  they  were  watching  the 
First  Scene  of  the  charade  in  which  an  August  Personage,  attended 
by  her  suite,  was  conducted  round  the  Zoo  to  see  a  newly-arrived  lion 
of  great  ferocity;  the  Second  Scene  in  which  the  same  Personage  from 
a  stand  at  Ditton  Corner  witnessed  the  sinking  of  a  clinker  four  fit 
sank  because  it  was  a  "leaker");  and  the  Final  Scene  in  which  the 
Personage,  seated  on  an  improvised  throne  and  wearing  an  impro- 
vised crown,  received  the  homage  of  her  faithful  subjects.  Duxberry 
and  his  wife  applauded  in  rapture,  and  Mackenzie  clapped  uncom- 
fortably. 

"I  think  perhaps,"  he  said,  "that  I  had  better  be  going  now.  It  is 
clearly  not  an  appropriate  time  for  the  discussion  of  official  busi- 
ness." 

"Of  course  it  isn't,"  said  Simpkins.  "Dulce  est  desipere,  Mac,  and 
we're  certainly  in  loco  to-night." 

"I'm  glad  we  didn't  have  to  play  the  charade  in  Latin,"  said  Zu- 
leika  to  Mrs  Duxberry. 

"Ah,  these  classical  dons,"  said  Mrs  Duxberry  indulgently,  "it's 
second  nature  to  them,  I  suppose." 

"Well,  second  nature's  better  than  original  sin,"  retorted  Simp- 
kins.  "Don't  you  think  so,  Miss  Dobson?" 

"I  prefer  Art  to  both,"  said  Zuleika. 

"I'm  bound  to  say  that  I  agree  with  Miss  Dobson,"  said  Mackenzie 
unexpectedly. 

"Of  course  you  do,  Mac,"  said  Simpkins.  "Miss  Dobson,"  he  went 
on,  turning  to  Zuleika,  "we  have  an  institution  in  Cambridge  known 
as  May  Week.  As  many  commentators  have  explained,  it  isn't  exactly 
a  week  and  it  isn't  in  May,  but  it  can  be  quite  pleasant.  Concerts,  you 
know,  and  balls  and  boat-races  and " 

"I  know,"  said  Zuleika  quietly. 

"Well,  a  sister-in-law  of  mine  is  bringing  a  few  friends  this  year  to 
be  my  guests.  Couldn't  I  induce  you  to  join  us?" 

Zuleika  pondered.  She  had  to  confess  to  herself  that  the  evening 
had  been  enjoyable,  though  she  did  not  quite  know  why.  To  be  ad- 
mired and  adored  by  men  was  nothing  new  to  her;  but  Cambridge 
men  gave  no  sign  of  wanting  to  lie  down  and  die  for  love  of  her. 
Instead,  they  stood  about  and  made  harmless  jokes.  Zuleika  still  knew 
what  she  liked;  and  she  was  growing  a  little  tired  of  innocent  fun. 

"Who'll  have  some  Moselle  cup?"  said  Hawkins,  from  the  other 
end  of  the  room. 

"All  of  us,"  shouted  Simpkins,  "except  Mackenzie.  He'd  prefer  a 
whiskey  and  soda." 


140  S.  C.  ROBERTS 

"Simpkins,"  said  Mackenzie,  embarrassed,  "you  might  at  least  let 
me  state  my  own  preferences." 

"Certainly,  Mac.  Just  tell  Miss  Dobson  how  much  you'd  prefer  it 
if  she  came  up  for  May  Week." 

"Of  course,"  said  Mackenzie,  still  more  confused,  "but  it's  hardly 
for  me  to  .  .  ." 

Zuleika  came  to  his  rescue. 

"Thank  you,"  she  said  slowly.  "It  has  certainly  been  interesting  to 
learn  something  of  Cambridge.  But  Mr  Mackenzie  need  have  no 
fear;  I  should  not  dream  of  bringing  fresh  embarrassment  upon  his 
Syndicate." 


The  Struggle  for  North  America 


BY  ARNOLD  J.  TOYNBEE 


The  classic  illustration  of  our  present  theme  in  our  Western 
history  is  the  outcome  of  the  competition  between  half  a  dozen 
different  groups  of  Western  colonists  for  the  mastery  of  North 
America.  The  victors  in  this  contest  were  the  New  Englanders;  and 
at  an  earlier  point  in  this  chapter,  *  apropos  of  the  reversion  of  Town 
Hill,  Connecticut,  to  its  pristine  state  of  Nature,  we  have  taken  note 
of  the  unusual  difficulty  of  the  local  American  environment  which 
first  fell  to  the  lot  of  the  ultimate  masters  of  the  whole  continent. 
Let  us  now  compare  this  New  England  environment,  of  which  the 
site  of  Town  Hill  is  a  specimen,  with  the  earliest  American  environ- 
ments of  the  New  Englanders'  unsuccessful  competitors:  the  Dutch, 
the  French,  the  Spaniards,  and  the  New  Englanders'  own  kinsmen 
and  neighbours  from  England  who  established  themselves  along 
the  southern  section  of  the  Atlantic  seaboard. 

In  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  of  the  Christian  Era, 
when  all  these  settlers  had  already  found  their  first  footing  on  the 
fringes  of  the  North  American  mainland,  it  would  have  been  quite 
easy  to  predict  the  coming  conflict  between  them  for  the  possession 
of  the  interior;  but  the  most  acute  and  far-sighted  observer  then 
alive  would  hardly  have  been  likely  to  hit  the  mark  if  he  had  been 
asked,  at  the  time,  to  designate  the  ultimate  victor.  He  might  con- 
ceivably have  had  the  acumen  to  rule  out  the  Spaniards  in  spite  of 
their  two  obvious  assets:  their  ownership,  in  Mexico,  of  the  only  re- 
gion in  or  adjoining  North  America  which  had  been  broken-in  and 
developed  economically,  before  the  European  colonists'  arrival,  by 
an  indigenous  civilization;  and  the  primacy  of  Spain,  in  our  hypo- 
thetical observer's  own  day,  among  the  Great  Powers  of  the  Western 
World.  Our  observer  might  have  discounted  the  high  development 
of  Mexico  in  view  of  its  outlying  position— cut  off,  as  it  was,  from 


*  Reference  is  to  earlier  pages  of  A  Study  of  History  [editor's  note]. 

141 


H2  ARNOLD  J.  TOYNBEE 

the  main  body  of  North  America  by  a  broad  belt  of  inhospitable 
plateau  and  desert;  and  have  discounted  the  political  strength  of 
Spain  by  reading  the  political  signs  of  the  times  as  they  were  written 
between  the  lines  of  the  Treaty  of  Westphalia. 

'The  Spanish  Empire',  he  might  have  pronounced,  'is  already  a 
carcass  round  which  the  vultures  are  gathering.  France  will  succeed 
to  the  military  hegemony  of  Spain  in  Europe,  Holland  and  England 
will  succeed  to  her  naval  and  commercial  supremacy  on  the  seas.  The 
competition  for  North  America  lies  now  between  these  three  coun- 
tries. Let  us  estimate  their  respective  chances  in  the  double  light  of 
their  general  positions  in  the  World  and  of  their  local  holdings  in 
America.  On  a  short  view,  Holland's  chances  might  appear  to  be  the 
most  promising.  She  is  mistress  of  the  seas  (England  being  no  match 
for  her  on  this  element,  and  France  not  seriously  competing);  and 
in  America  she  holds  a  splendid  water-gate  opening  into  the  interior: 
the  valley  of  the  Hudson.  On  a  longer  view,  however,  France  seems 
more  likely  to  be  the  winner;  for  the  French  St.  Lawrence  offers  still 
better  means  of  access  to  the  interior  of  North  America  than  the 
Dutch  Hudson,  while  it  is  in  the  power  of  the  French  to  immobilize 
and  exhaust  the  Dutch  by  bringing  to  bear  against  them  the  over- 
whelming military  superiority  of  France  on  the  Continent  of  Europe. 
All  the  same,  as  between  French  and  Dutch  prospects,  I  hesitate'  (we 
hear  him  saying)  'to  decide.  The  one  prophecy  that  I  make  with 
confidence  is  that  the  English  are  not  in  the  running.  Possibly  the 
more  southerly  of  the  English  colonies,  with  their  relatively  genial 
soil  and  climate,  will  manage  to  survive— though  at  best  they  will 
find  themselves  hemmed  in  between  the  Dutch  along  the  Hudson 
in  the  north  and  the  Spaniards  in  Florida  on  the  south  and  the 
Dutch  or  the  French,  whichever  it  may  be  that  cuts  off  their  hinter- 
land on  the  west  by  securing  the  control  of  the  Mississippi.  One 
thing,  however,  is  certain.  The  little  group  of  settlements  in  the 
bleak  and  barren  country  which  the  colonists  have  christened  "New 
England"  is  bound  to  disappear.  They  are  cut  off  from  the  other 
English  settlements  by  the  Dutch  in  the  Hudson  Valley,  while  the 
French  in  the  St.  Lawrence  Valley  press  them  close  on  the  opposite 
flank.  The  destinies  of  these  New  Englanders,  at  any  rate,  are  not 
in  doubt!' 

Let  us  now  suppose  that  our  hypothetical  observer  lives  to  see  the 
turn  of  the  century.  By  the  year  1701  he  will  be  congratulating  him- 
self on  his  discernment,  fifty  years  earlier,  in  rating  French  prospects 
higher  than  Dutch;  for  in  the  course  of  these  last  fifty  years  the  St. 
Lawrence  has  vanquished  the  Hudson.  The  French  explorers  have 


THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  NORTH  AMERICA     143 

pushed  up  the  St.  Lawrence  on  to  the  Great  Lakes,  and  over  the 
portage  into  the  Basin  of  the  Mississippi,  and  down  these  Western 
Waters  to  the  delta  of  the  great  river,  where  they  have  established 
the  new  French  colony  of  Louisiana  to  match  the  older  French  col- 
ony of  Canada  at  the  other  end  of  the  trans-continental  waterway. 
As  for  the  Dutch,  our  observer  must  admit  that  he  had  rated  their 
prospects  much  too  high.  They  might  have  made  themselves  masters 
of  the  Great  Lakes  before  the  French  arrived  there.  Indeed,  for  the 
ocean-going  vessels  of  the  century,  the  head  of  navigation  was  rather 
less  distant  up  the  Hudson  than  it  was  up  the  St.  Lawrence  from  the 
shores  of  Lake  Ontario.  Yet,  far  from  that,  the  Dutch  have  tamely 
allowed  the  Hudson  Valley  itself  to  be  taken  from  them  by  their 
weaker  maritime  rivals  the  English.  Well,  the  Dutch  are  out  of  the 
running  now  in  North  America,  and  the  French  and  the  English 
are  left  there  tete  a  tete;  but  the  English  can  hardly  be  regarded  as 
serious  competitors.  The  events  of  the  last  half-century  assuredly  do 
not  call  for  any  revision  of  forecasts  on  this  head— notwithstanding 
the  unlooked-for  success  which  the  English  have  gained  in  the  Hud- 
son Valley.  Certainly  the  New  Englanders  are  making  the  most  of 
this  windfall.  Already  they  are  colonizing  the  back-country  of  the 
Dutch  province  and  are  linking  New  England  up  with  the  rest  of 
the  English  settlements  on  the  Atlantic  coast.  Possibly  the  New  Eng- 
landers have  been  saved  from  extinction— but  this  only  to  share  the 
modest  prospects  of  their  southern  kinsfolk.  For  the  English  feat 
of  conquering  the  Hudson  Valley  from  the  facile  Dutch  has  been 
utterly  surpassed  by  the  simultaneous  French  feat  of  conquering 
from  the  formidable  virgin  wilderness  the  whole  extent  of  the  mag- 
nificent inland  waterway  between  Quebec  and  New  Orleans.  While 
the  English  colonies  have  been  consolidated,  the  French  colonies 
have  effectively  hemmed  them  in.  The  future  of  the  Continent  is 
decided!  The  victors  are  the  French! 

Shall  we  endow  our  observer  with  superhuman  length  of  life,  in 
order  that  he  may  review  the  situation  once  more  in  the  year  1803? 
If  we  do  preserve  him  alive  till  then,  he  will  be  forced  to  confess 
that  his  wits  have  not  been  worthy  of  his  longevity.  By  the  end  of 
1803,  the  French  flag  has  actually  disappeared  off  the  political  map 
of  North  America  altogether.  For  forty  years  past,  Canada  has  been 
a  possession  of  the  British  Crown,  while  Louisiana,  after  being  ceded 
by  France  to  Spain  and  retroceded  again,  has  just  been  sold  on  the 
20th  December,  1803,  by  Napoleon  to  the  United  States— the  new 
Great  Power  which  has  emerged  out  of  the  thirteen  English  colonies 
by  a  most  extraordinary  metamorphosis. 


144  ARNOLD  J.  TOYNBEE 

'The  United  States  of  America!'  Who  would  have  prophesied  it? 
Yet  the  ambitious  title  is  justified  by  the  accomplished  facts.  In  this 
year  1803,  the  United  States  have  the  continent  in  their  pockets,  and 
the  scope  for  prophecy  is  reduced.  It  only  remains  to  forecast  which 
section  of  these  United  States  is  going  to  pocket  the  larger  share  of 
this  vast  estate— the  breadth  of  a  continent— that  has  come  into  their 
joint  possession.  And  surely  this  time  there  can  be  no  mistake?  The 
Southern  States  are  the  manifest  masters  of  the  Union  and  residuary 
legatees  in  North  America  of  Great  Britain  and  France.  Look  how 
the  Southerners  are  leading  in  this  final  round  of  the  competition— 
in  this  inter-American  race  for  the  Winning  of  the  West.  It  is  the 
backwoodsmen  of  Virginia  who  have  founded  Kentucky— the  first 
new  state  to  be  established  west  of  those  mountains  which  have  so 
long  conspired  with  the  French  to  keep  the  English-speaking  settlers 
on  the  Atlantic  coast  from  penetrating  into  the  interior.  And  take 
note  of  the  key-position  which  Kentucky  occupies,  extending  right 
down  the  left  bank  of  the  Ohio  to  the  confluence  of  the  Mississippi's 
principal  tributary  with  the  Mississippi  himself.  The  West  is  in  the 
Southerners'  grasp,  and  mark  how  all  things  work  together  for  their 
good.  The  statesmanship  of  an  English  Chatham  and  a  Pennsyl- 
vanian  Franklin  and  a  Corsican  Buonaparte  has  endowed  them  with 
an  immeasurable  supply  of  land;  and,  as  fast  as  they  can  put  this  new 
land  under  the  hoe,  the  new-fangled  mills  of  distant  Lancashire  are 
offering  them  an  ever-expanding  market  for  the  cotton-crop  which 
the  soil  and  climate  of  the  South  enable  them  to  raise.  The  Negro 
provides  the  labour  and  the  Mississippi  the  means  of  transporting 
the  produce  to  the  quays  of  New  Orleans,  where  the  ships  from 
Liverpool  are  waiting  to  bear  it  away.  Even  the  New  Englander  is  a 
useful  auxiliary,  as  the  Southerner  superciliously  points  out. 

'Our  Yankee  cousin,'  the  Southerner  observes  in  1807,  'has  just 
invented  a  "steam-boat"  which  will  navigate  our  Mississippi  up- 
stream; and  he  has  made  a  practical  success  of  a  machine  for  carding 
and  cleaning  our  cotton-bolls.  Those  unlovable,  unfortunate  fellow- 
citizens  of  ours  in  that  out-of-the-way  corner,  down  east!  Their 
"Yankee  notions"  are  more  profitable  to  us  than  they  are  to  the  in- 
genious inventors!  For  what  are  New  England's  prospects?  Her 
prospects  are  no  better  in  this  year  1807  than  they  were  a  century 
since.  To-day,  when  the  wide  West  has  been  thrown  open  to  South- 
ern enterprise  at  last,  it  still  remains  closed  to  the  New  Englander. 
New  England  is  still  barred  in  on  the  landward  side  by  the  barrier 
of  Canada,  which  has  not  ceased  to  be  a  foreign  country  in  passing 
from  the  French  to  the  British  Crown.  So  there  our  poor  relation 


THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  NORTH   AMERICA     145 

still  sits  in  his  out-of-the-way  corner,  cooped  up  on  the  "bad  lands" 
of  Town  Hill;  and  there,  presumably,  he  will  go  on  sitting  till 
Doomsday!  "Sedet,  aeternumque  sedebit!"  '  * 

If  our  unlucky  prophet  takes  Southern  prospects  on  the  morrow 
of  the  Louisiana  Purchase  at  the  Southerner's  own  valuation,  he 
must  indeed  be  in  his  dotage;  for  in  the  last  round  of  the  two- 
centuries-long  contest  for  the  mastery  of  the  North  American  Con- 
tinent, the  Southerner  is  destined  to  meet  a  swifter  and  more  crush- 
ing defeat  than  those  that  have  been  met  heretofore  by  the  Spaniard 
and  the  Dutchman  and  the  Frenchman.  To  witness  his  discomfiture, 
we  shall  not  have  to  wait  as  long  as  a  century.  We  shall  see  the  rela- 
tive positions  of  South  and  North  reversed  in  less  than  a  lifetime. 

In  the  year  1865,  the  situation  is  already  transformed,  out  of  all 
recognition,  from  what  it  was  in  1807.  In  the  Winning  of  the  West, 
the  Southern  pioneer  had  been  outstripped  and  outflanked  by  his 
Northern  rival.  After  almost  winning  his  way  to  the  Great  Lakes 
through  Indiana  and  after  getting  the  best  of  the  bargain  in  Mis- 
souri, the  Southerner  has  been  decisively  defeated  in  Kansas,  and  he 
has  never  reached  the  Pacific.  The  descendants  of  the  men  who 
mastered  the  difficulties  of  Town  Hill,  Connecticut,  have  now  be- 
come masters  of  the  Pacific  coast  along  the  whole  front  from  Seattle 
to  Los  Angeles.  Nor  has  the  Southerner's  command  of  the  Mississippi 
much  availed  him.  He  had  counted  on  the  network  of  the  Western 
Waters  to  draw  the  whole  of  the  West  into  a  Southern  system  of 
economic  and  political  relations;  and  when  the  Yankee  presented 
him  with  steam-boats  to  ply  on  the  Western  Waters,  he  imagined 
that  the  Yankee  had  delivered  the  West  into  his  hands.  But  'Yankee 
notions'  have  not  ceased.  The  inventor  of  the  steamer  has  gone  on  to 
invent  the  locomotive;  and  the  locomotive  has  taken  away  more 
from  the  Southerner  than  the  steamer  ever  gave  him;  for  the  po- 
tential function  of  the  Hudson  Valley  in  the  human  geography  of 
North  America  as  the  main  gateway  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  West— 
a  potentiality  which  the  Dutch  had  failed  to  turn  to  account  in  com- 
petition with  the  French— has  been  actualized  at  last  in  the  railway 
age.  The  railway-traffic  which  now  passes  up  the  valley  of  the  Hudson 
and  the  valley  of  the  Mohawk  and  then  along  the  lake-side  to  link 
New  York  with  Chicago  has  superseded  the  river-traffic  on  the  Mis- 
sissippi between  New  Orleans  and  St.  Louis.  Therewith,  the  internal 
lines  of  communication  of  the  North  American  Continent  have 
been  turned  at  right  angles  from  south  and  north  to  east  and  west; 


Virgil:  Aeneid,  Book  VI,  1.  617. 


146  ARNOLD  J.  TOYNBEE 

and  the  North-West  has  been  detached  from  the  South,  to  be  welded 
on  to  the  North-East  in  interest  and  in  sentiment.  Indeed,  the  East- 
erner, who  once  made  the  South- West  a  present  of  the  river-steamer, 
has  now  won  the  heart  of  the  North-West  with  a  double  gift:  he 
has  come  to  the  North-Western  farmer  with  the  locomotive  in  one 
hand  and  with  the  reaper-and-binder  in  the  other,  and  so  has  pro- 
vided him  with  solutions  for  both  the  problems  with  which  the 
West  is  confronted.  In  order  to  develop  its  potential  economic  ca- 
pacities, the  whole  West  has  need  of  two  things:  transport  and  la- 
bour; but  the  South-Western  planter— believing  that  his  labour- 
problem  has  been  solved  for  ever  by  the  institution  of  Negro  slavery 
—has  sought  a  solution  for  his  transport-problem,  and  for  this  only, 
from  the  Yankee's  mechanical  ingenuity.  The  North-Western  farmer 
is  in  a  different  case.  He  disposes  of  no  servile  man-power,  and  his 
free-labour  force  is  recruited  by  the  casual  process  of  immigration 
from  Europe  all  too  slowly  to  till  his  fast-expanding  fields.  So  he 
finds  the  agricultural  machinery  which  is  turned  out  by  the  Eastern 
factories  as  great  a  godsend  as  the  Eastern  railways.  By  these  two 
'Yankee  notions',  together,  the  allegiance  of  the  North-West  has 
been  decided;  and  thus  the  Civil  War  has  been  lost  by  the  South 
before  it  has  been  fought.  In  taking  up  arms  in  the  hope  of  redress- 
ing her  economic  reverses  by  a  military  counterstroke,  the  South  has 
merely  precipitated  and  consummated  a  debacle  that  was  already  in- 
evitable. 

This  ultimate  victory  of  the  New  Englanders,  in  a  competition  for 
the  mastery  of  North  America  in  which  their  Spanish,  Dutch,  French, 
and  Southern  competitors  were  successively  discomfited,  is  illuminat- 
ing for  the  study  of  the  question  with  which  we  are  concerned  at  the 
moment:  the  question  of  the  relative  stimulating  effects  of  different 
degrees  of  difficulty  in  the  physical  environment  of  human  life.  For, 
unusually  difficult  though  the  New  Englanders'  environment  was, 
it  is  manifest  that  the  rival  colonists'  environments  were  none  of 
them  easy.  To  begin  with,  all  alike  had  undergone  the  initial  ordeal 
of  plucking  up  their  social  roots  in  Europe  and  crossing  the  Atlantic 
and  striking  fresh  roots  in  the  soil  of  a  New  World;  and,  when  they 
had  succeeded  in  re-establishing  themselves,  it  was  not  only  the 
New  Englanders  who  found  permanent  difficulties  to  contend  with 
in  their  new  American  home.  The  French  settlers  in  Canada  had  to 
contend  with  an  almost  arctic  cold;  and  the  French  settlers  in 
Louisiana  had  to  break  in  a  great  river.  The  Mississippi  was  as  way- 
ward in  changing  his  course,  and  as  devastating  in  his  inundations, 
as  the  Yellow  River  or  the  Nile  or  the  Tigris;  and  the  levees  with 


THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  NORTH  AMERICA     147 

which  the  Creoles  protected  their  hard-won  fields  and  villages  cost 
no  less  human  effort  to  build  and  maintain  than  the  earthen  bul- 
warks of  the  Egyptiac  and  the  Sumeric  and  the  Sinic  Civilization.  In 
fact,  the  difficulties  presented  by  the  physical  environment  in  Canada 
and  in  Louisiana  were  only  less  formidable  than  those  which  the 
New  Englanders  encountered  on  Town  Hill  itself.  Thus  this  North 
American  illustration,  as  far  as  it  goes,  tells  in  favour  of  the  proposi- 
tion that  the  difficulty  and  the  stimulus  of  an  environment  are  apt  to 
increase  pari  passu.  It  will  tell  the  same  tale  if  we  push  it  even  far- 
ther. 

Can  we  push  it  farther?  Can  we  venture,  in  1933,  to  prophesy 
in  whose  hands  the  mastery  of  North  America  will  lie  a  century 
hence?  Can  we  hope  to  come  any  nearer  to  the  mark  ourselves  than 
our  imaginary  prophet  in  1650  and  1701  and  1803?  Can  we  do  more 
than  ring  down  the  curtain  on  the  present  scene,  in  which  the  off- 
spring of  the  New  Englanders  dominates  the  stage?  Difficult  though 
divination  may  be,  there  are  already  certain  signs  that  the  drama  is 
not  yet  played  out  and  the  final  victory  in  the  struggle  not  yet  de- 
cided. One  small  sign  once  came  to  the  notice  of  the  author  of  this 
Study. 

A  few  days  after  the  occasion,  mentioned  above,*  when  I  passed 
by  the  deserted  site  of  Town  Hill,  Connecticut,  I  found  myself  with 
an  hour  to  spend  between  trains  in  one  of  the  small  back-country 
manufacturing  towns  of  New  England,  on  the  Massachusetts  side 
of  the  Connecticut-Massachusetts  state-line.  Since  the  General  War 
of  1914-18,  the  industrial  districts  of  New  England  have  fared  as 
badly  as  those  of  the  mother  country.  They  have  fallen  on  evil  days, 
and  they  show  it  in  their  aspect.  In  this  town,  however,  on  this  day, 
the  atmosphere  was  not  at  all  forlorn  or  lifeless.  The  town  was  in 
fete,  and  the  whole  population  was  abroad  in  the  streets.  Threading 
my  way  through  the  crowds  I  noticed  that  one  person  out  of  every 
two  was  wearing  a  special  badge,  and  I  inquired  what  the  colours 
signified.  I  was  told  that  they  were  the  colours  of  the  local  French 
Canadian  club;  and  I  ascertained  that  my  rough  impression  of  their 
frequency  in  the  streets  was  borne  out  by  statistics.  In  that  year 
1925,  in  that  New  England  manufacturing  town,  the  French  Ca- 
nadians were  by  far  the  strongest  contingent  in  the  local  labour- 
force.  The  indigenous  New  Englanders  had  left  these  factories,  as 
they  had  left  the  fields  of  Town  Hill,  to  find  their  fortunes  in  the 
West;  but  the  town,  unlike  the  village,  had  not  been  deserted.  As 


Reference  is  to  earlier  pages  of  A  Study  of  History  [editor's  note]. 


148  ARNOLD  J.   TOYNBEE 

fast  as  the  indigenous  population  had  ebbed  out,  a  tide  of  French 
Canadian  immigrants  had  flooded  in.  Conditions  of  work  and  life 
which  had  ceased  to  be  attractive  to  the  descendants  of  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers  seemed  luxurious  to  these  Norman  peasants'  children  from 
the  sub-arctic  hinterland  of  Quebec.  Moreover,  I  was  told,  the  French 
Canadian  immigrants  were  spreading  from  the  towns  of  New  Eng- 
land on  to  the  land,  where,  as  peasants,  they  found  themselves  truly 
at  home.  On  their  frugal  standard  of  living,  American  rates  of  in- 
dustrial wages  left  them  with  a  surplus  which  quickly  mounted  up 
to  the  purchase-price  of  a  derelict  New  England  farm.  The  immi- 
grants were  actually  re-populating  the  deserted  countryside.  Perhaps, 
on  my  next  visit,  I  should  find  Town  Hill  itself  no  longer  desolate. 
Yet  if,  on  that  forbidding  spot,  the  works  of  Man  overcame  the 
wilderness  for  the  second  time,  it  could  be  foreseen  that  history 
would  repeat  itself  with  a  difference.  The  fields  and  orchards  and 
even  the  houses  might  wear  again  in  1950  the  aspect  which  they  had 
worn  two  centuries  before;  but  this  time  the  blood  in  the  veins  of 
the  farmers  would  be  French  and  not  English,  and  divine  worship 
in  the  antique  wooden  church  would  be  conducted  no  longer  by  a 
Presbyterian  minister  but  by  a  Catholic  priest! 

Thus  it  seems  possible  that  the  contest  between  the  French  Ca- 
nadian and  the  New  Englander  for  the  mastery  of  North  America 
may  not,  after  all,  have  been  concluded  and  disposed  of  finally  by 
the  outcome  of  the  Seven  Years'  War.  For,  when  the  French  flag  was 
hauled  down,  the  French  peasant  did  not  disappear  with  the  emblem 
of  the  French  Government's  sovereignty.  Under  the  tutelage  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  this  peasantry  continued,  undisturbed,  to 
be  fruitful  and  multiply  and  replenish  the  Earth;  and  now  in  the 
fullness  of  time  the  French  Canadian  is  making  a  counter-offensive 
into  the  heart  of  his  old  rival's  homeland.  He  is  conquering  New 
England  in  the  peasant's  way— by  slower  but  surer  methods  than 
those  which  Governments  have  at  their  command.  He  is  conducting 
his  operations  with  the  ploughshare  and  not  with  the  sword,  and  he 
is  asserting  his  ownership  by  the  positive  act  of  colonizing  the  coun- 
tryside and  not  by  the  cartographical  conceit  of  painting  colours  and 
drawing  lines  on  a  scrap  of  paper.  Meanwhile,  law  and  religion  and 
environment  are  combining  to  assist  him.  The  environment  of  a 
harsh  countryside  keeps  him  exposed  to  a  stimulus  which  no  longer 
invigorates  his  rival  in  the  softer  atmosphere  of  the  distant  Western 
cities.  His  religion  forbids  him  to  restrict  the  size  of  his  family  by 
contraceptive  methods  of  birth-control.  And  United  States  legisla- 
tion, which  has  restricted  immigration  from  countries  overseas  but 


THE  STRUGGLE  FOR   NORTH  AMERICA     149 

not  from  countries  on  the  American  Continent,  has  left  the  French 
Canadian  immigrant  in  a  privileged  position  which  is  shared  with 
him  by  none  but  the  Mexican. #  Perhaps  the  present  act  in  the  drama 
of  North  American  history  may  end,  after  a  century  of  peaceful 
penetration,  in  a  triumphal  meeting  between  the  two  resurgent 
Latin  peasantries  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Federal  Capital  of  the 
United  States!  Is  this  the  denouement  that  our  great-grandchildren 
are  destined  to  witness  in  a.d.  2033?  There  have  been  reversals  of 
fortune  every  bit  as  strange  as  this  in  North  American  history  before. 


*  This  restriction  of  immigration  into  the  United  States  has  been  effected  by  the 
Immigration  (Restriction)  Acts  of  1921  and  1924.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  wide  door 
left  open  for  immigration  into  the  United  States  across  the  land-frontiers  is  only  open 
for  native-born  inhabitants  of  the  adjoining  American  countries.  A  European  or  Asiatic 
who  attempts  to  enter  the  United  States  through  Canada  or  Mexico,  without  having 
secured  a  place  in  the  annual  quota  of  immigrants  assigned  to  his  own  country  of  ori- 
gin, finds  himself  excluded.  In  this  matter,  the  United  States  Bureau  of  Immigration  has 
adopted  the  British  Admiralty's  doctrine  of  'continuous  voyage', 


Monologue  D'Outre  Tombe 

(Pantoum) 

ANONYMOUS 


Morn  and  noon  and  night, 
Here  I  lie  in  the  ground; 

No  faintest  glimmer  of  light, 
No  lightest  whisper  of  sound. 

Here  I  lie  in  the  ground; 

The  worms  glide  out  and  in; 
No  lightest  whisper  of  sound, 

After  a  life-long  din. 

The  worms  glide  out  and  in; 

They  are  fruitful  and  multiply; 
After  a  life-long  din, 

I  watch  them  quietly. 

They  are  fruitful  and  multiply, 
My  body  dwindles  the  while; 

I  watch  them  quietly; 
I  can  scarce  forbear  a  smile. 

My  body  dwindles  the  while, 
I  shall  soon  be  a  skeleton; 

I  can  scarce  forbear  a  smile 

They  have  had  such  glorious  fun. 

I  shall  soon  be  a  skeleton, 

The  worms  are  wriggling  away; 

They  have  had  such  glorious  fun, 
They  will  fertilise  my  clay. 

The  worms  are  wriggling  away, 

They  are  what  I  have  been, 
150 


MONOLOGUE  D'OUTRE  TOMBE  151 

They  will  fertilise  my  clay. 

The  grass  will  grow  more  green. 

They  are  what  I  have  been. 

I  shall  change,  but  what  of  that? 
The  grass  will  grow  more  green, 

The  parsons  sheep  grow  fat. 

I  shall  change,  but  what  of  that? 

All  flesh  is  grass,  one  says, 
The  parsons  sheep  grow  fat, 

The  parson  grows  in  grace. 

All  flesh  is  grass,  one  says, 

Grass  becomes  flesh,  one  knows, 
The  parson  grows  in  grace; 

I  am  the  grace  he  grows. 

Grass  becomes  flesh,  one  knows, 

He  grows  like  a  bull  of  Bashan. 
I  am  the  grace  he  grows; 

I  startle  his  congregation. 

He  grows  like  a  hull  of  Bashan, 

One  day  hell  be  Bishop  or  Dean, 
I  startle  his  congregation: 

One  day  I  shall  preach  to  the  Q—n. 

One  day  he'll  be  Bishop  or  Dean, 

One  of  those  science-haters; 
One  day  I  shall  preach  to  the  Q—n, 

To  think  of  my  going  in  gaiters! 

One  of  those  science-haters, 

Blind  as  a  mole  or  bat; 
To  think  of  my  going  in  gaiters, 

And  wearing  a  shovel  hat! 

Blind  as  a  mole  or  bat, 

No  faintest  glimmer  of  light, 
And  wearing  a  shovel  hat, 

Morning  and  noon  and  night. 


The  Celestial  Omnibus 


BY  E.  M.  FORSTER 


The  boy  who  resided  at  Agathox  Lodge,  28,  Buckingham  Park 
Road,  Surbiton,  had  often  been  puzzled  by  the  old  sign-post  that 
stood  almost  opposite.  He  asked  his  mother  about  it,  and  she  replied 
that  it  was  a  joke,  and  not  a  very  nice  one,  which  had  been  made 
many  years  back  by  some  naughty  young  men,  and  that  the  police 
ought  to  remove  it.  For  there  were  two  strange  things  about  this 
sign-post:  firstly,  it  pointed  up  a  blank  alley,  and,  secondly,  it  had 
painted  on  it,  in  faded  characters,  the  words,  "To  Heaven." 

"What  kind  of  young  men  were  they?"  he  asked. 

"I  think  your  father  told  me  that  one  of  them  wrote  verses,  and 
was  expelled  from  the  University  and  came  to  grief  in  other  ways. 
Still,  it  was  a  long  time  ago.  You  must  ask  your  father  about  it.  He 
will  say  the  same  as  I  do,  that  it  was  put  up  as  a  joke." 

"So  it  doesn't  mean  anything  at  all?" 

She  sent  him  up-stairs  to  put  on  his  best  things,  for  the  Bonses 
were  coming  to  tea,  and  he  was  to  hand  the  cake-stand. 

It  struck  him,  as  he  wrenched  on  his  tightening  trousers,  that  he 
might  do  worse  than  ask  Mr.  Bons  about  the  sign-post.  His  father, 
though  very  kind,  always  laughed  at  him— shrieked  with  laughter 
whenever  he  or  any  other  child  asked  a  question  or  spoke.  But  Mr. 
Bons  was  serious  as  well  as  kind.  He  had  a  beautiful  house  and  lent 
one  books,  he  was  a  churchwarden,  and  a  candidate  for  the  County 
Council;  he  had  donated  to  the  Free  Library  enormously,  he  pre- 
sided over  the  Literary  Society,  and  had  Members  of  Parliament  to 
stop  with  him— in  short,  he  was  probably  the  wisest  person  alive. 

Yet  even  Mr.  Bons  could  only  say  that  the  sign-post  was  a  joke— 
the  joke  of  a  person  named  Shelley. 

"Of  course!"  cried  the  mother;  "I  told  you  so,  dear.  That  was  the 
name." 

152 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  153 

"Had  you  never  heard  of  Shelley?"  asked  Mr.  Boris. 

"No,"  said  the  boy,  and  hung  his  head. 

"But  is  there  no  Shelley  in  the  house?" 

"Why,  yes!"  exclaimed  the  lady,  in  much  agitation.  "Dear  Mr. 
Bons,  we  aren't  such  Philistines  as  that.  Two  at  the  least.  One  a 
wedding  present,  and  the  other,  smaller  print,  in  one  of  the  spare 
rooms." 

"I  believe  we  have  seven  Shelleys,"  said  Mr.  Bons,  with  a  slow 
smile.  Then  he  brushed  the  cake  crumbs  off  his  stomach,  and,  to- 
gether with  his  daughter,  rose  to  go. 

The  boy,  obeying  a  wink  from  his  mother,  saw  them  all  the  way 
to  the  garden  gate,  and  when  they  had  gone  he  did  not  at  once  return 
to  the  house,  but  gazed  for  a  little  up  and  down  Buckingham  Park 
Road. 

His  parents  lived  at  the  right  end  of  it.  After  No.  39  the  quality  of 
the  houses  dropped  very  suddenly,  and  64  had  not  even  a  separate 
servants'  entrance.  But  at  the  present  moment  the  whole  road  looked 
rather  pretty,  for  the  sun  had  just  set  in  splendour,  and  the  inequali- 
ties of  rent  were  drowned  in  a  saffron  afterglow.  Small  birds  twit- 
tered, and  the  breadwinners'  train  shrieked  musically  down  through 
the  cutting— that  wonderful  cutting  which  has  drawn  to  itself  the 
whole  beauty  out  of  Surbiton,  and  clad  itself,  like  any  Alpine  valley, 
with  the  glory  of  the  fir  and  the  silver  birch  and  the  primrose.  It  was 
this  cutting  that  had  first  stirred  desires  within  the  boy— desires  for 
something  just  a  little  different,  he  knew  not  what,  desires  that  would 
return  whenever  things  were  sunlit,  as  they  were  this  evening,  run- 
ning up  and  down  inside  him,  up  and  down,  up  and  down,  till  he 
would  feel  quite  unusual  all  over,  and  as  likely  as  not  would  want 
to  cry.  This  evening  he  was  even  sillier,  for  he  slipped  across  the  road 
towards  the  sign-post  and  began  to  run  up  the  blank  alley. 

The  alley  runs  between  high  walls— the  walls  of  the  gardens  of 
"Ivanhoe"  and  "Belle  Vista"  respectively.  It  smells  a  little  all  the 
way,  and  is  scarcely  twenty  yards  long,  including  the  turn  at  the  end. 
So  not  unnaturally  the  boy  soon  came  to  a  standstill.  "I'd  like  to  kick 
that  Shelley,"  he  exclaimed,  and  glanced  idly  at  a  piece  of  paper 
which  was  pasted  on  the  wall.  Rather  an  odd  piece  of  paper,  and  he 
read  it  carefully  before  he  turned  back.  This  is  what  he  read: 

S.     AND     C.  R.  C.  C. 

Alteration  in  Service. 

Owing  to  lack  of  patronage  the  Company  are  regretfully  com- 
pelled to  suspend  the  hourly  service,  and  to  retain  only  the 


154  E-  M-  FORSTER 

Sunrise  and  Sunset  Omnibuses, 

which  will  run  as  usual.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  public  will  pa- 
tronize an  arrangement  which  is  intended  for  their  convenience.  As 
an  extra  inducement,  the  Company  will,  for  the  first  time,  now  issue 

Return  Tickets! 

(available  one  day  only),  which  may  be  obtained  of  the  driver.  Pas- 
sengers are  again  reminded  that  no  tickets  are  issued  at  the  other 
end,  and  that  no  complaints  in  this  connection  will  receive  consid- 
eration from  the  Company.  Nor  will  the  Company  be  responsible  for 
any  negligence  or  stupidity  on  the  part  of  Passengers,  nor  for  Hail- 
storms, Lightning,  Loss  of  Tickets,  nor  for  any  Act  of  God. 

-JH-  For  the  Direction. 

Now  he  had  never  seen  this  notice  before,  nor  could  he  imagine 
where  the  omnibus  went  to.  S.  of  course  was  for  Surbiton,  and  R.C.C.*1 
meant  Road  Car  Company.  But  what  was  the  meaning  of  the  other 
C?  Coombe  and  Maiden,  perhaps,  or  possibly  "City."  Yet  it  could 
not  hope  to  compete  with  the  Sou th-Wes tern.  The  whole  thing,  the 
boy  reflected,  was  run  on  hopelessly  unbusiness-like  lines.  Why  no 
tickets  from  the  other  end?  And  what  an  hour  to  start!  Then  he 
realized  that  unless  the  notice  was  a  hoax,  an  omnibus  must  have 
been  starting  just  as  he  was  wishing  the  Bonses  good-bye.  He  peered 
at  the  ground  through  the  gathering  dusk,  and  there  he  saw  what 
might  or  might  not  be  the  marks  of  wheels.  Yet  nothing  had  come 
out  of  the  alley.  And  he  had  never  seen  an  omnibus  at  any  time  in 
the  Buckingham  Park  Road.  No:  it  must  be  a  hoax,  like  the  sign- 
posts, like  the  fairy  tales,  like  the  dreams  upon  which  he  would  wake 
suddenly  in  the  night.  And  with  a  sigh  he  stepped  from  the  alley- 
right  into  the  arms  of  his  father. 

Oh,  how  his  father  laughed!  "Poor,  poor  Popsey!"  he  cried.  "Did- 
dums!  Diddums!  Diddums  think  he'd  walky-palky  up  to  Evvink!" 
And  his  mother,  also  convulsed  with  laughter,  appeared  on  the  steps 
of  Agathox  Lodge.  "Don't,  Bob!"  she  gasped.  "Don't  be  so  naughty! 
Oh,  you'll  kill  me!  Oh,  leave  the  boy  alone!" 

But  all  that  evening  the  joke  was  kept  up.  The  father  implored  to 
be  taken  too.  Was  it  a  very  tiring  walk?  Need  one  wipe  one's  shoes 
on  the  door-mat?  And  the  boy  went  to  bed  feeling  faint  and  sore,  and 
thankful  for  only  one  thing— that  he  had  not  said  a  word  about  the 
omnibus.  It  was  a  hoax,  yet  through  his  dreams  it  grew  more  and 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  155 

more  real,  and  the  streets  of  Surbiton,  through  which  he  saw  it  driv- 
ing, seemed  instead  to  become  hoaxes  and  shadows.  And  very  early 
in  the  morning  he  woke  with  a  cry,  for  he  had  had  a  glimpse  of  its 
destination. 

He  struck  a  match,  and  its  light  fell  not  only  on  his  watch  but  also 
on  his  calendar,  so  that  he  knew  it  to  be  half-an-hour  to  sunrise.  It 
was  pitch  dark,  for  the  fog  had  come  down  from  London  in  the 
night,  and  all  Surbiton  was  wrapped  in  its  embraces.  Yet  he  sprang 
out  and  dressed  himself,  for  he  was  determined  to  settle  once  for  all 
which  was  real:  the  omnibus  or  the  streets.  "I  shall  be  a  fool  one  way 
or  the  other,"  he  thought,  "until  I  know."  Soon  he  was  shivering  in 
the  road  under  the  gas  lamp  that  guarded  the  entrance  to  the  alley. 

To  enter  the  alley  itself  required  some  courage.  Not  only  was  it 
horribly  dark,  but  he  now  realized  that  it  was  an  impossible  terminus 
for  an  omnibus.  If  it  had  not  been  for  a  policeman,  whom  he  heard 
approaching  through  the  fog,  he  would  never  have  made  the  at- 
tempt. The  next  moment  he  had  made  the  attempt  and  failed.  Noth- 
ing. Nothing  but  a  blank  alley  and  a  very  silly  boy  gaping  at  its  dirty 
floor.  It  was  a  hoax.  'Til  tell  papa  and  mamma,"  he  decided.  "I  de- 
serve it.  I  deserve  that  they  should  know.  I  am  too  silly  to  be  alive." 
And  he  went  back  to  the  gate  of  Agathox  Lodge. 

There  he  remembered  that  his  watch  was  fast.  The  sun  was  not 
risen;  it  would  not  rise  for  two  minutes.  "Give  the  bus  every  chance," 
he  thought  cynically,  and  returned  into  the  alley. 

But  the  omnibus  was  there. 


II 

It  had  two  horses,  whose  sides  were  still  smoking  from  their  jour- 
ney, and  its  two  great  lamps  shone  through  the  fog  against  the  alley's 
walls,  changing  their  cobwebs  and  moss  into  tissues  of  fairyland.  The 
driver  was  huddled  up  in  a  cape.  He  faced  the  blank  wall,  and  how 
he  had  managed  to  drive  in  so  neatly  and  so  silently  was  one  of  the 
many  things  that  the  boy  never  discovered.  Nor  could  he  imagine 
how  ever  he  would  drive  out. 

"Please,"  his  voice  quavered  through  the  foul  brown  air,  "Please, 
is  that  an  omnibus?" 

"Omnibus  est,"  said  the  driver,  without  turning  round.  There 
was  a  moment's  silence.  The  policeman  passed,  coughing,  by  the  en- 
trance of  the  alley.  The  boy  crouched  in  the  shadow,  for  he  did  not 
want  to  be  found  out.  He  was  pretty  sure,  too,  that  it  was  a  Pirate; 


156  E.   M.   FORSTER 

nothing  else,  he  reasoned,  would  go  from  such  odd  places  and  at  such 
odd  hours. 

"About  when  do  you  start?"  He  tried  to  sound  nonchalant. 

"At  sunrise." 

"How  far  do  you  go?" 

"The  whole  way." 

"And  can  I  have  a  return  ticket  which  will  bring  me  all  the  way 
back?" 

"You  can." 

"Do  you  know,  I  half  think  I'll  come."  The  driver  made  no  an- 
swer. The  sun  must  have  risen,  for  he  unhitched  the  brake.  And 
scarcely  had  the  boy  jumped  in  before  the  omnibus  was  off. 

How?  Did  it  turn?  There  was  no  room.  Did  it  go  forward?  There 
was  a  blank  wall.  Yet  it  was  moving— moving  at  a  stately  pace  through 
the  fog,  which  had  turned  from  brown  to  yellow.  The  thought  of 
warm  bed  and  warmer  breakfast  made  the  boy  feel  faint.  He  wished 
he  had  not  come.  His  parents  would  not  have  approved.  He  would 
have  gone  back  to  them  if  the  weather  had  not  made  it  impossible. 
The  solitude  was  terrible;  he  was  the  only  passenger.  And  the  omni- 
bus, though  well-built,  was  cold  and  somewhat  musty.  He  drew  his 
coat  round  him,  and  in  so  doing  chanced  to  feel  his  pocket.  It  was 
empty.  He  had  forgotten  his  purse. 

"Stop!"  he  shouted.  "Stop!"  And  then,  being  of  a  polite  disposi- 
tion, he  glanced  up  at  the  painted  notice-board  so  that  he  might  call 
the  driver  by  name.  "Mr.  Browne!  stop;  O,  do  please  stop!" 

Mr.  Browne  did  not  stop,  but  he  opened  a  little  window  and 
looked  in  at  the  boy.  His  face  was  a  surprise,  so  kind  it  was  and 
modest. 

"Mr.  Browne,  I've  left  my  purse  behind.  I've  not  got  a  penny.  I 
can't  pay  for  the  ticket.  Will  you  take  my  watch,  please?  I  am  in  the 
most  awful  hole." 

"Tickets  on  this  line,"  said  the  driver,  "whether  single  or  return, 
can  be  purchased  by  coinage  from  no  terrene  mint.  And  a  chronom- 
eter, though  it  had  solaced  the  vigils  of  Charlemagne,  or  measured 
the  slumbers  of  Laura,  can  acquire  by  no  mutation  the  double-cake 
that  charms  the  fangless  Cerberus  of  Heaven!"  So  saying,  he  handed 
in  the  necessary  ticket,  and,  while  the  boy  said  "Thank  you,"  contin- 
ued: "Titular  pretensions,  I  know  it  well,  are  vanity.  Yet  they  merit 
no  censure  when  uttered  on  a  laughing  lip,  and  in  an  homonymous 
world  are  in  some  sort  useful,  since  they  do  serve  to  distinguish  one 
Jack  from  his  fellow.  Remember  me,  therefore,  as  Sir  Thomas 
Browne." 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  157 

"Are  you  a  Sir?  Oh,  sorry!"  He  had  heard  of  these  gentlemen 
drivers.  "It  is  good  of  you  about  the  tieket.  But  if  you  go  on  at  this 
rate,  however  does  your  bus  pay?" 

"It  does  not  pay.  It  was  not  intended  to  pay.  Many  are  the  faults 
of  my  equipage;  it  is  compounded  too  curiously  of  foreign  woods; 
its  cushions  tickle  erudition  rather  than  promote  repose;  and  my 
horses  are  nourished  not  on  the  evergreen  pastures  of  the  moment, 
but  on  the  dried  bents  and  clovers  of  Latinity.  But  that  it  pays!— that 
error  at  all  events  was  never  intended  and  never  attained." 

"Sorry  again,"  said  the  boy  rather  hopelessly.  Sir  Thomas  looked 
sad,  fearing  that,  even  for  a  moment,  he  had  been  the  cause  of  sad- 
ness. He  invited  the  boy  to  come  up  and  sit  beside  him  on  the  box, 
and  together  they  journeyed  on  through  the  fog,  which  was  now 
changing  from  yellow  to  white.  There  were  no  houses  by  the  road; 
so  it  must  be  either  Putney  Heath  or  Wimbledon  Common. 

"Have  you  been  a  driver  always?" 

"I  was  a  physician  once." 

"But  why  did  you  stop?  Weren't  you  good?" 

"As  a  healer  of  bodies  I  had  scant  success,  and  several  score  of  my 
patients  preceded  me.  But  as  a  healer  of  the  spirit  I  have  succeeded 
beyond  my  hopes  and  my  deserts.  For  though  my  draughts  were  not 
better  nor  subtler  than  those  of  other  men,  yet,  by  reason  of  the  cun- 
ning goblets  wherein  I  offered  them,  the  queasy  soul  was  ofttimes 
tempted  to  sip  and  be  refreshed." 

"The  queasy  soul,"  he  murmured;  "if  the  sun  sets  with  trees  in 
front  of  it,  and  you  suddenly  come  strange  all  over,  is  that  a  queasy 
soul?" 

"Have  you  felt  that?" 

"Why  yes." 

After  a  pause  he  told  the  boy  a  little,  a  very  little,  about  the  jour- 
ney's end.  But  they  did  not  chatter  much,  for  the  boy,  when  he  liked 
a  person,  would  as  soon  sit  silent  in  his  company  as  speak,  and  this, 
he  discovered,  was  also  the  mind  of  Sir  Thomas  Browne  and  of  many 
others  with  whom  he  was  to  be  acquainted.  He  heard,  however, 
about  the  young  man  Shelley,  who  was  now  quite  a  famous  person, 
with  a  carriage  of  his  own,  and  about  some  of  the  other  drivers  who 
are  in  the  service  of  the  Company.  Meanwhile  the  light  grew 
stronger,  though  the  fog  did  not  disperse.  It  was  now  more  like  mist 
than  fog,  and  at  times  would  travel  quickly  across  them,  as  if  it  was 
part  of  a  cloud.  They  had  been  ascending,  too,  in  a  most  puzzling 
way;  for  over  two  hours  the  horses  had  been  pulling  against  the  col- 
lar, and  even  if  it  were  Richmond  Hill  they  ought  to  have  been  at 


158  E.  M.  FORSTER 

the  top  long  ago.  Perhaps  it  was  Epsom,  or  even  the  North  Downs; 
yet  the  air  seemed  keener  than  that  which  blows  on  either.  And  as 
to  the  name  of  their  destination,  Sir  Thomas  Browne  was  silent. 

Crash! 

"Thunder,  by  Jove!"  said  the  boy,  "and  not  so  far  off  either.  Lis- 
ten to  the  echoes!  It's  more  like  mountains." 

He  thought,  not  very  vividly,  of  his  father  and  mother.  He  saw 
them  sitting  down  to  sausages  and  listening  to  the  storm.  He  saw  his 
own  empty  place.  Then  there  would  be  questions,  alarms,  theories, 
jokes,  consolations.  They  would  expect  him  back  at  lunch.  To  lunch 
he  would  not  come,  nor  to  tea,  but  he  would  be  in  for  dinner,  and 
so  his  day's  truancy  would  be  over.  If  he  had  had  his  purse  he  would 
have  bought  them  presents— not  that  he  should  have  known  what  to 
get  them. 

Crash! 

The  peal  and  the  lightning  came  together.  The  cloud  quivered  as 
if  it  were  alive,  and  torn  streamers  of  mist  rushed  past.  "Are  you 
afraid?"  asked  Sir  Thomas  Browne. 

"What  is  there  to  be  afraid  of?  Is  it  much  farther?" 

The  horses  of  the  omnibus  stopped  just  as  a  ball  of  fire  burst  up 
and  exploded  with  a  ringing  noise  that  was  deafening  but  clear,  like 
the  noise  of  a  blacksmith's  forge.  All  the  cloud  was  shattered. 

"Oh,  listen,  Sir  Thomas  Browne!  No,  I  mean  look;  we  shall  get 
a  view  at  last.  No,  I  mean  listen;  that  sounds  like  a  rainbow!" 

The  noise  had  died  into  the  faintest  murmur,  beneath  which  an- 
other murmur  grew,  spreading  stealthily,  steadily,  in  a  curve  that 
widened  but  did  not  vary.  And  in  widening  curves  a  rainbow  was 
spreading  from  the  horses'  feet  into  the  dissolving  mists. 

"But  how  beautiful!  What  colours!  Where  will  it  stop?  It  is  more 
like  the  rainbows  you  can  tread  on.  More  like  dreams." 

The  colour  and  the  sound  grew  together.  The  rainbow  spanned 
an  enormous  gulf.  Clouds  rushed  under  it  and  were  pierced  by  it, 
and  still  it  grew,  reaching  forward,  conquering  the  darkness,  until 
it  touched  something  that  seemed  more  solid  than  a  cloud. 

The  boy  stood  up.  "What  is  that  out  there?"  he  called.  "What 
does  it  rest  on,  out  at  that  other  end?" 

In  the  morning  sunshine  a  precipice  shone  forth  beyond  the  gulf. 
A  precipice— or  was  it  a  castle?  The  horses  moved.  They  set  their 
feet  upon  the  rainbow. 

"Oh,  look!"  the  boy  shouted.  "Oh,  listen!  Those  caves— or  are  they 
gateways?  Oh,  look  between  those  cliffs  at  those  ledges.  I  see  people! 
I  see  trees!" 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  159 

"Look  also  below,"  whispered  Sir  Thomas.  "Neglect  not  the  di- 
viner Acheron." 

The  boy  looked  below,  past  the  flames  of  the  rainbow  that  licked 
against  their  wheels.  The  gulf  also  had  cleared,  and  in  its  depths 
there  flowed  an  everlasting  river.  One  sunbeam  entered  and  struck 
a  green  pool,  and  as  they  passed  over  he  saw  three  maidens  rise  to  the 
surface  of  the  pool,  singing,  and  playing  with  something  that  glis- 
tened like  a  ring. 

"You  down  in  the  water "  he  called. 

They  answered,  "You  up  on  the  bridge "  There  was  a  burst  of 

music.  "You  up  on  the  bridge,  good  luck  to  you.  Truth  in  the  depth, 
truth  on  the  height." 

"You  down  in  the  water,  what  are  you  doing?" 

Sir  Thomas  Browne  replied:  "They  sport  in  the  mancipiary  pos- 
session of  their  gold";  and  the  omnibus  arrived. 

Ill 

The  boy  was  in  disgrace.  He  sat  locked  up  in  the  nursery  of  Aga- 
thox  Lodge,  learning  poetry  for  a  punishment.  His  father  had  said, 
"My  boy!  I  can  pardon  anything  but  untruthfulness,"  and  had  caned 
him,  saying  at  each  stroke,  "There  is  no  omnibus,  no  driver,  no 
bridge,  no  mountain;  you  are  a  truant,  a  gutter  snipe,  a  liar."  His 
father  could  be  very  stern  at  times.  His  mother  had  begged  him  to 
say  he  was  sorry.  But  he  could  not  say  that.  It  was  the  greatest  day  of 
his  life,  in  spite  of  the  caning  and  the  poetry  at  the  end  of  it. 

He  had  returned  punctually  at  sunset— driven  not  by  Sir  Thomas 
Browne,  but  by  a  maiden  lady  who  was  full  of  quiet  fun.  They  had 
talked  of  omnibuses  and  also  of  barouche  landaus.  How  far  away 
her  gentle  voice  seemed  now!  Yet  it  was  scarcely  three  hours  since 
he  had  left  her  up  the  alley. 

His  mother  called  through  the  door.  "Dear,  you  are  to  come  down 
and  to  bring  your  poetry  with  you." 

He  came  down,  and  found  that  Mr.  Bons  was  in  the  smoking- 
room  with  his  father.  It  had  been  a  dinner  party. 

"Here  is  the  great  traveller!"  said  his  father  grimly.  "Here  is  the 
young  gentleman  who  drives  in  an  omnibus  over  rainbows,  while 
young  ladies  sing  to  him."  Pleased  with  his  wit,  he  laughed. 

"After  all,"  said  Mr.  Bons,  smiling,  "there  is  something  a  little 
like  it  in  Wagner.  It  is  odd  how,  in  quite  illiterate  minds,  you  will 
find  glimmers  of  Artistic  Truth.  The  case  interests  me.  Let  me  plead 
for  the  culprit.  We  have  all  romanced  in  our  time,  haven't  we?" 


160  E.  M.  FORSTER 

"Hear  how  kind  Mr.  Bons  is,"  said  his  mother,  while  his  father 
said.  "Very  well.  Let  him  say  his  Poem,  and  that  will  do.  He  is  going 
away  to  my  sister  on  Tuesday,  and  she  will  cure  him  of  this  alley- 
slopering."  (Laughter.)  "Say  your  Poem." 

The  boy  began.  "  'Standing  aloof  in  giant  ignorance.'  " 

His  father  laughed  again— roared.  "One  for  you,  my  son!  'Standing 
aloof  in  giant  ignorance!'  I  never  knew  these  poets  talked  sense.  Just 
describes  you.  Here,  Bons,  you  go  in  for  poetry.  Put  him  through  it, 
will  you,  while  I  fetch  up  the  whisky?" 

"Yes,  give  me  the  Keats,"  said  Mr.  Bons.  "Let  him  say  his  Keats 
to  me." 

So  for  a  few  moments  the  wise  man  and  the  ignorant  boy  were 
left  alone  in  the  smoking-room. 

'  'Standing  aloof  in  giant  ignorance,  of  thee  I  dream  and  of  the 
Cyclades,  as  one  who  sits  ashore  and  longs  perchance  to  visit 

"Quite  right.  To  visit  what?" 
'To  visit  dolphin  coral  in  deep  seas,'  "  said  the  boy,  and  burst 
into  tears. 

"Come,  come!  why  do  you  cry?" 

"Because— because  all  these  words  that  only  rhymed  before,  now 
that  I've  come  back  they're  me." 

Mr.  Bons  laid  the  Keats  down.  The  case  was  more  interesting  than 
he  had  expected.  "You?"  he  exclaimed.  "This  sonnet,  you?" 

"Yes— and  look  further  on:  'Aye,  on  the  shores  of  darkness  there 
is  light,  and  precipices  show  untrodden  green.'  It  is  so,  sir.  All  these 
things  are  true." 

"I  never  doubted  it,"  said  Mr.  Bons,  with  closed  eyes. 

"You— then  you  believe  me?  You  believe  in  the  omnibus  and 
the  driver  and  the  storm  and  that  return  ticket  I  got  for  nothing 
and " 

"Tut,  tut!  No  more  of  your  yarns,  my  boy.  I  meant  that  I  never 
doubted  the  essential  truth  of  Poetry.  Some  day,  when  you  have  read 
more,  you  will  understand  what  I  mean." 

"But  Mr.  Bons,  it  is  so.  There  is  light  upon  the  shores  of  darkness. 
I  have  seen  it  coming.  Light  and  a  wind." 

"Nonsense,"  said  Mr.  Bons. 

"If  I  had  stopped!  They  tempted  me.  They  told  me  to  give  up  my 
ticket— for  you  cannot  come  back  if  you  lose  your  ticket.  They  called 
from  the  river  for  it,  and  indeed  I  was  tempted,  for  I  have  never 
been  so  happy  as  among  those  precipices.  But  I  thought  of  my  mother 
and  father,  and  that  I  must  fetch  them.  Yet  they  will  not  come, 
though  the  road  starts  opposite  our  house.  It  has  all  happened  as  the 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  161 

people  up  there  warned  me,  and  Mr.  Bons  has  disbelieved  me  like 
every  one  else.  I  have  been  caned.  I  shall  never  see  that  mountain 
again." 

"What's  that  about  me?"  said  Mr.  Bons,  sitting  up  in  his  chair 
very  suddenly. 

"I  told  them  about  you,  and  how  clever  you  were,  and  how  many 
books  you  had,  and  they  said,  'Mr.  Bons  will  certainly  disbelieve 
you. 

"Stuff  and  nonsense,  my  young  friend.  You  grow  impertinent.  I— 
well— I  will  settle  the  matter.  Not  a  word  to  your  father.  I  will  cure 
you.  To-morrow  evening  I  will  myself  call  here  to  take  you  for  a 
walk,  and  at  sunset  we  will  go  up  this  alley  opposite  and  hunt  for 
your  omnibus,  you  silly  little  boy." 

His  face  grew  serious,  for  the  boy  was  not  disconcerted,  but  leapt 
about  the  room  singing,  "Joy!  joy!  I  told  them  you  would  believe 
me.  We  will  drive  together  over  the  rainbow.  I  told  them  that  you 
would  come."  After  all,  could  there  be  anything  in  the  story?  Wag- 
ner? Keats?  Shelley?  Sir  Thomas  Browne?  Certainly  the  case  was 
interesting. 

And  on  the  morrow  evening,  though  it  was  pouring  with  rain,  Mr. 
Bons  did  not  omit  to  call  at  Agathox  Lodge. 

The  boy  was  ready,  bubbling  with  excitement,  and  skipping  about 
in  a  way  that  rather  vexed  the  President  of  the  Literary  Society.  They 
took  a  turn  down  Buckingham  Park  Road,  and  then— having  seen 
that  no  one  was  watching  them— slipped  up  the  alley.  Naturally 
enough  (for  the  sun  was  setting)  they  ran  straight  against  the 
omnibus. 

"Good  heavens!"  exclaimed  Mr.  Bons.  "Good  gracious  heavens!" 

It  was  not  the  omnibus  in  which  the  boy  had  driven  first,  nor  yet 
that  in  which  he  had  returned.  There  were  three  horses— black,  gray, 
and  white,  the  gray  being  the  finest.  The  driver,  who  turned  round 
at  the  mention  of  goodness  and  of  heaven,  was  a  sallow  man  with 
terrifying  jaws  and  sunken  eyes.  Mr.  Bons,  on  seeing  him,  gave  a  cry 
as  if  of  recognition,  and  began  to  tremble  violently. 

The  boy  jumped  in. 

"Is  it  possible?"  cried  Mr.  Bons.  "Is  the  impossible  possible?" 

"Sir;  come  in,  sir.  It  is  such  a  fine  omnibus.  Oh,  here  is  his  name 
—Dan  some  one." 

Mr.  Bons  sprang  in  too.  A  blast  of  wind  immediately  slammed  the 
omnibus  door,  and  the  shock  jerked  down  all  the  omnibus  blinds, 
which  were  very  weak  on  their  springs. 

"Dan  .  .  .  Show  me.  Good  gracious  heavens!  we're  moving." 


162  E.  M.  FORSTER 

"Hooray!"  said  the  boy. 

Mr.  Boris  became  flustered.  He  had  not  intended  to  be  kidnapped. 
He  could  not  find  the  door-handle,  nor  push  up  the  blinds.  The  om- 
nibus was  quite  dark,  and  by  the  time  he  had  struck  a  match,  night 
had  come  on  outside  also.  They  were  moving  rapidly. 

"A  strange,  a  memorable  adventure,"  he  said,  surveying  the  in- 
terior of  the  omnibus,  which  was  large,  roomy,  and  constructed  with 
extreme  regularity,  every  part  exactly  answering  to  every  other  part. 
Over  the  door  (the  handle  of  which  was  outside)  was  written,  "Lasci- 
ate  ogni  baldanza  voi  che  entrate"— at  least,  that  was  what  was  writ- 
ten, but  Mr.  Bons  said  that  it  was  Lashy  arty  something,  and  that 
baldanza  was  a  mistake  for  speranza.  His  voice  sounded  as  if  he  was 
in  church.  Meanwhile,  the  boy  called  to  the  cadaverous  driver  for 
two  return  tickets.  They  were  handed  in  without  a  word.  Mr.  Bons 
covered  his  face  with  his  hand  and  again  trembled.  "Do  you  know 
who  that  is!"  he  whispered,  when  the  little  window  had  shut  upon 
them.  "It  is  the  impossible." 

"Well,  I  don't  like  him  as  much  as  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  though 
I  shouldn't  be  surprised  if  he  had  even  more  in  him." 

"More  in  him?"  He  stamped  irritably.  "By  accident  you  have  made 
the  greatest  discovery  of  the  century,  and  all  you  can  say  is  that  there 
is  more  in  this  man.  Do  you  remember  those  vellum  books  in  my 
library,  stamped  with  red  lilies?  This— sit  still,  I  bring  you  stupen- 
dous news!— this  is  the  man  who  wrote  them." 

The  boy  sat  quite  still.  "I  wonder  if  we  shall  see  Mrs.  Gamp?"  he 
asked,  after  a  civil  pause. 

"Mrs. ?" 

"Mrs.  Gamp  and  Mrs.  Harris.  I  like  Mrs.  Harris.  I  came  upon 
them  quite  suddenly.  Mrs.  Gamp's  bandboxes  have  moved  over  the 
rainbow  so  badly.  All  the  bottoms  have  fallen  out,  and  two  of  the 
pippins  off  her  bedstead  tumbled  into  the  stream." 

"Out  there  sits  the  man  who  wrote  my  vellum  books!"  thundered 
Mr.  Bons,  "and  you  talk  to  me  of  Dickens  and  of  Mrs.  Gamp?" 

"I  know  Mrs.  Gamp  so  well,"  he  apologized.  "I  could  not  help 
being  glad  to  see  her.  I  recognized  her  voice.  She  was  telling  Mrs. 
Harris  about  Mrs.  Prig." 

"Did  you  spend  the  whole  day  in  her  elevating  company?" 

"Oh,  no.  I  raced.  I  met  a  man  who  took  me  out  beyond  to  a  race- 
course. You  run,  and  there  are  dolphins  out  at  sea." 

"Indeed.  Do  you  remember  the  man's  name?" 

"Achilles.  No;  he  was  later.  Tom  Jones." 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  163 

Mr.  Bons  sighed  heavily.  "Well,  my  lad,  you  have  made  a  miser- 
able mess  of  it.  Think  of  a  cultured  person  with  your  opportunities! 
A  cultured  person  would  have  known  all  these  characters  and  known 
what  to  have  said  to  each.  He  would  not  have  wasted  his  time  with  a 
Mrs.  Gamp  or  a  Tom  Jones.  The  creations  of  Homer,  of  Shake- 
speare, and  of  Him  who  drives  us  now,  would  alone  have  contented 
him.  He  would  not  have  raced.  He  would  have  asked  intelligent 
questions." 

"But,  Mr.  Bons,"  said  the  boy  humbly,  "you  will  be  a  cultured 
person.  I  told  them  so." 

"True,  true,  and  I  beg  you  not  to  disgrace  me  when  we  arrive.  No 
gossiping.  No  running.  Keep  close  to  my  side,  and  never  speak  to 
these  Immortals  unless  they  speak  to  you.  Yes,  and  give  me  the  re- 
turn tickets.  You  will  be  losing  them." 

The  boy  surrendered  the  tickets,  but  felt  a  little  sore.  After  all,  he 
had  found  the  way  to  this  place.  It  was  hard  first  to  be  disbelieved 
and  then  to  be  lectured.  Meanwhile,  the  rain  had  stopped,  and 
moonlight  crept  into  the  omnibus  through  the  cracks  in  the  blinds. 

"But  how  is  there  to  be  a  rainbow?"  cried  the  boy. 

"You  distract  me,"  snapped  Mr.  Bons.  "I  wish  to  meditate  on 
beauty.  I  wish  to  goodness  I  was  with  a  reverent  and  sympathetic 
person." 

The  lad  bit  his  lip.  He  made  a  hundred  good  resolutions.  He 
would  imitate  Mr.  Bons  all  the  visit.  He  would  not  laugh,  or  run,  or 
sing,  or  do  any  of  the  vulgar  things  that  must  have  disgusted  his  new 
friends  last  time.  He  would  be  very  careful  to  pronounce  their  names 
properly,  and  to  remember  who  knew  whom.  Achilles  did  not  know 
Tom  Jones— at  least,  so  Mr.  Bons  said.  The  Duchess  of  Main  was 
older  than  Mrs.  Gamp— at  least,  so  Mr.  Bons  said.  He  would  be  self- 
conscious,  reticent,  and  prim.  He  would  never  say  he  liked  any  one. 
Yet,  when  the  blind  flew  up  at  a  chance  touch  of  his  head,  all  these 
good  resolutions  went  to  the  winds,  for  the  omnibus  had  reached  the 
summit  of  a  moonlit  hill,  and  there  was  the  chasm,  and  there,  across 
it,  stood  the  old  precipices,  dreaming,  with  their  feet  in  the  everlasting 
river.  He  exclaimed,  "The  mountain!  Listen  to  the  new  tune  in  the 
water!  Look  at  the  camp  fires  in  the  ravines,"  and  Mr.  Bons,  after  a 
hasty  glance,  retorted,  "Water?  Camp  fires?  Ridiculous  rubbish. 
Hold  your  tongue.  There  is  nothing  at  all." 

Yet,  under  his  eyes,  a  rainbow  formed,  compounded  not  of  sun- 
light and  storm,  but  of  moonlight  and  the  spray  of  the  river.  The 
three  horses  put  their  feet  upon  it.  He  thought  it  the  finest  rainbow 


164  E.   M.   FORSTER 

he  had  seen,  but  did  not  dare  to  say  so,  since  Mr.  Bons  said  that  noth- 
ing was  there.  He  leant  out— the  window  had  opened— and  sang  the 
tune  that  rose  from  the  sleeping  waters. 

"The  prelude  to  Rhinegold?"  said  Mr.  Bons  suddenly.  "Who 
taught  you  these  leitmotifs?"  He,  too,  looked  out  of  the  window. 
Then  he  behaved  very  oddly.  He  gave  a  choking  cry,  and  fell  back 
on  to  the  omnibus  floor.  He  writhed  and  kicked.  His  face  was  green. 

"Does  the  bridge  make  you  dizzy?"  the  boy  asked. 

"Dizzy!"  gasped  Mr.  Bons.  "I  want  to  go  back.  Tell  the  driver." 

But  the  driver  shook  his  head. 

"We  are  nearly  there,"  said  the  boy.  "They  are  asleep.  Shall  I  call? 
They  will  be  so  pleased  to  see  you,  for  I  have  prepared  them." 

Mr.  Bons  moaned.  They  moved  over  the  lunar  rainbow,  which 
ever  and  ever  broke  away  behind  their  wheels.  How  still  the  night 
was!  Who  would  be  sentry  at  the  Gate? 

"I  am  coming,"  he  shouted,  again  forgetting  the  hundred  resolu- 
tions. "I  am  returning— I,  the  boy." 

"The  boy  is  returning,"  cried  a  voice  to  other  voices,  who  re- 
peated, "The  boy  is  returning." 

"I  am  bringing  Mr.  Bons  with  me." 

Silence. 

"I  should  have  said  Mr.  Bons  is  bringing  me  with  him." 

Profound  silence. 

"Who  stands  sentry?" 

"Achilles." 

And  on  the  rocky  causeway,  close  to  the  springing  of  the  rainbow 
bridge,  he  saw  a  young  man  who  carried  a  wonderful  shield. 

"Mr.  Bons,  it  is  Achilles,  armed." 

"I  want  to  go  back,"  said  Mr.  Bons. 

The  last  fragment  of  the  rainbow  melted,  the  wheels  sang  upon 
the  living  rock,  the  door  of  the  omnibus  burst  open.  Out  leapt  the 
boy— he  could  not  resist— and  sprang  to  meet  the  warrior,  who, 
stooping  suddenly,  caught  him  on  his  shield. 

"Achilles!"  he  cried,  "let  me  get  down,  for  I  am  ignorant  and 
vulgar,  and  I  must  wait  for  that  Mr.  Bons  of  whom  I  told  you  yes- 
terday." 

But  Achilles  raised  him  aloft.  He  crouched  on  the  wonderful 
shield,  on  heroes  and  burning  cities,  on  vineyards  graven  in  gold,  on 
every  dear  passion,  every  joy,  on  the  entire  image  of  the  Mountain 
that  he  had  discovered,  encircled,  like  it,  with  an  everlasting  stream. 
"No,  no,"  he  protested,  "I  am  not  worthy.  It  is  Mr.  Bons  who  must 
be  up  here." 


THE  CELESTIAL  OMNIBUS  165 

But  Mr.  Bons  was  whimpering,  and  Achilles  trumpeted  and  cried, 
"Stand  upright  upon  my  shield!" 

"Sir,  I  did  not  mean  to  stand!  something  made  me  stand.  Sir,  why 
do  you  delay?  Here  is  only  the  great  Achilles,  whom  you  knew." 

Mr.  Bons  screamed,  "I  see  no  one.  I  see  nothing.  I  want  to  go 
back."  Then  he  cried  to  the  driver,  "Save  me!  Let  me  stop  in  your 
chariot.  I  have  honoured  you.  I  have  quoted  you.  I  have  bound  you 
in  vellum.  Take  me  back  to  my  world." 

The  driver  replied,  "I  am  the  means  and  not  the  end.  I  am  the 
food  and  not  the  life.  Stand  by  yourself,  as  that  boy  has  stood.  I  can- 
not save  you.  For  poetry  is  a  spirit;  and  they  that  would  worship  it 
must  worship  in  spirit  and  in  truth." 

Mr.  Bons— he  could  not  resist— crawled  out  of  the  beautiful  omni- 
bus. His  face  appeared,  gaping  horribly.  His  hands  followed,  one 
gripping  the  step,  the  other  beating  the  air.  Now  his  shoulders 
emerged,  his  chest,  his  stomach.  With  a  shriek  of  "I  see  London,"  he 
fell— fell  against  the  hard,  moonlit  rock,  fell  into  it  as  if  it  were 
water,  fell  through  it,  vanished,  and  was  seen  by  the  boy  no  more. 

"Where  have  you  fallen  to,  Mr.  Bons?  Here  is  a  procession  arriv- 
ing to  honour  you  with  music  and  torches.  Here  come  the  men  and 
women  whose  names  you  know.  The  mountain  is  awake,  the  river 
is  awake,  over  the  race-course  the  sea  is  awaking  those  dolphins,  and 
it  is  all  for  you.  They  want  you " 

There  was  the  touch  of  fresh  leaves  on  his  forehead.  Some  one 
had  crowned  him. 

TEA02 


From  the  Kingston  Gazette,  Surbiton  Times, 
and  Raynes  Park  Observer. 
The  body  of  Mr.  Septimus  Bons  has  been  found  in  a  shockingly 
mutilated  condition  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Bermondsey  gas-works. 
The  deceased's  pockets  contained  a  sovereign-purse,  a  silver  cigar- 
case,  a  bijou  pronouncing  dictionary,  and  a  couple  of  omnibus 
tickets.  The  unfortunate  gentleman  had  apparently  been  hurled 
from  a  considerable  height.  Foul  play  is  suspected,  and  a  thorough 
investigation  is  pending  by  the  authorities. 


The  Sea- Cow 


BY  JOHN  STEINBECK  AND 
EDWARD  F.  RICKETTS 


WE  come  now  to  a  piece  of  equipment  which  still  brings  anger  to 
our  hearts  and,  we  hope,  some  venom  to  our  pen.  Perhaps  in 
self-defense  against  suit,  we  should  say,  "The  outboard  motor  men- 
tioned in  this  book  is  purely  fictitious  and  any  resemblance  to  out- 
board motors  living  or  dead  is  coincidental."  We  shall  call  this 
contraption,  for  the  sake  of  secrecy,  a  Hansen  Sea-Cow— a  dazzling 
little  piece  of  machinery,  all  aluminum  paint  and  touched  here  and 
there  with  spots  of  red.  The  Sea-Cow  was  built  to  sell,  to  dazzle  the 
eyes,  to  splutter  its  way  into  the  unwary  heart.  We  took  it  along  for 
the  skiff.  It  was  intended  that  it  should  push  us  ashore  and  back, 
should  drive  our  boat  into  estuaries  and  along  the  borders  of  little 
coves.  But  we  had  not  reckoned  with  one  thing.  Recently,  industrial 
civilization  has  reached  its  peak  of  reality  and  has  lunged  forward 
into  something  that  approaches  mysticism.  In  the  Sea-Cow  factory 
where  steel  fingers  tighten  screws,  bend  and  mold,  measure  and 
divide,  some  curious  mathematick  has  occurred.  And  that  secret  so 
long  sought  has  accidentally  been  found.  Life  has  been  created.  The 
machine  is  at  last  stirred.  A  soul  and  a  malignant  mind  have  been 
born.  Our  Hansen  Sea-Cow  was  not  only  a  living  thing  but  a  mean, 
irritable,  contemptible,  vengeful,  mischievous,  hateful  living  thing. 
In  the  six  weeks  of  our  association  we  observed  it,  at  first  mechan- 
ically and  then,  as  its  living  reactions  became  more  and  more  appar- 
ent, psychologically.  And  we  determined  one  thing  to  our  satisfac- 
tion. When  and  if  these  ghoulish  little  motors  learn  to  reproduce 
themselves  the  human  species  is  doomed.  For  their  hatred  of  us  is  so 
great  that  they  will  wait  and  plan  and  organize  and  one  night,  in  a 
roar  of  little  exhausts,  they  will  wipe  us  out.  We  do  not  think  that 
Mr.  Hansen,  inventor  of  the  Sea-Cow,  father  of  the  outboard  motor, 
knew  what  he  was  doing.  We  think  the  monster  he  created  was  as 

166 


THE  SEA-COW  167 

accidental  and  arbitrary  as  the  beginning  of  any  other  life.  Only  one 
thing  differentiates  the  Sea-Cow  from  the  life  that  we  know.  Whereas 
the  forms  that  are  familiar  to  us  are  the  results  of  billions  of  years 
of  mutation  and  complication,  life  and  intelligence  emerged  simul- 
taneously in  the  Sea-Cow.  It  is  more  than  a  species.  It  is  a  whole  new 
redefinition  of  life.  We  observed  the  following  traits  in  it  and  we 
were  able  to  check  them  again  and  again: 

1.  Incredibly  lazy,  the  Sea-Cow  loved  to  ride  on  the  back  of  a 
boat,  trailing  its  propeller  daintily  in  the  water  while  we  rowed. 

2.  It  required  the  same  amount  of  gasoline  whether  it  ran  or  not, 
apparently  being  able  to  absorb  this  fluid  through  its  body  walls 
without  recourse  to  explosion.  It  had  always  to  be  filled  at  the 
beginning  of  every  trip. 

3.  It  had  apparently  some  clairvoyant  powers,  and  was  able  to 
read  our  minds,  particularly  when  they  were  inflamed  with  emotion. 
Thus,  on  every  occasion  when  we  were  driven  to  the  point  of  de- 
stroying it,  it  started  and  ran  with  a  great  noise  and  excitement.  This 
served  the  double  purpose  of  saving  its  life  and  of  resurrecting  in 
our  minds  a  false  confidence  in  it. 

4.  It  had  many  cleavage  points,  and  when  attacked  with  a  screw- 
driver, fell  apart  in  simulated  death,  a  trait  it  had  in  common  with 
opossums,  armadillos,  and  several  members  of  the  sloth  family,  which 
also  fell  apart  in  simulated  death  when  attacked  with  a  screwdriver. 

5.  It  hated  Tex,  sensing  perhaps  that  his  knowledge  of  mechanics 
was  capable  of  diagnosing  its  shortcomings. 

6.  It  completely  refused  to  run:  (a)  when  the  waves  were  high,  (b) 
when  the  wind  blew,  (c)  at  night,  early  morning,  and  evening,  (d)  in 
rain,  dew,  or  fog,  (e)  when  the  distance  to  be  covered  was  more  than 
two  hundred  yards.  But  on  warm,  sunny  days  when  the  weather  was 
calm  and  the  white  beach  close  by— in  a  word,  on  days  when  it  would 
have  been  a  pleasure  to  row— the  Sea-Cow  started  at  a  touch  and 
would  not  stop. 

7.  It  loved  no  one,  trusted  no  one.  It  had  no  friends. 

Perhaps  toward  the  end,  our  observations  were  a  little  warped  by 
emotion.  Time  and  again  as  it  sat  on  the  stern  with  its  pretty  little 
propeller  lying  idly  in  the  water,  it  was  very  close  to  death.  And  in 
the  end,  even  we  were  infected  with  its  malignancy  and  its  dishon- 
esty. We  should  have  destroyed  it,  but  we  did  not.  Arriving  home, 
we  gave  it  a  new  coat  of  aluminum  paint,  spotted  it  at  points  with 
new  red  enamel,  and  sold  it.  And  we  might  have  rid  the  world  of 
this  mechanical  cancer! 


Rules  for  Judicial  Conduct 

Things  Necessary  to  be 
Continually  had  in  Remembrance 

BY  SIR  MATTHEW  HALE,  KT. 

Lord  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer,  1660—1671 
Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England,  1671—1676 


I.  That  in  the  Administration  of  Justice,  I  am  entrusted  for  God, 
the  King  and  Country;  and  therefore, 

II.  That  it  be  done,  1.  Uprightly,  2.  Deliberately,  3.  Resolutely. 

III.  That  I  rest  not  upon  my  own  Understanding  or  Strength,  but 
Implore  and  rest  upon  the  Direction  and  Strength  of  God. 

IV.  That  in  the  Execution  of  Justice  I  carefully  lay  aside  my  own 
Passions,  and  not  give  way  to  them,  however  provoked. 

V.  That  I  be  wholly  intent  upon  the  Business  I  am  about,  remit- 
ting all  other  Cares  and  Thoughts,  as  unseasonable  and  Interrup- 
tions. 

VI.  That  I  suffer  not  myself  to  be  prepossessed  with  any  Judg- 
ment at  all,  till  the  whole  Business  and  both  Parties  be  heard. 

VII.  That  I  never  engage  myself  in  the  beginning  of  any  Cause, 
but  reserve  myself  unprejudiced  till  the  whole  be  heard. 

VIII.  That  in  Business  Capital,  though  my  Nature  prompt  me  to 
Pity;  yet  to  consider,  that  there  is  also  a  Pity  due  to  the  Country. 

IX.  That  I  be  not  too  Rigid  in  matters  Conscientious,  where  all 
the  harm  is  Diversity  of  Judgment. 

X.  That  I  be  not  biassed  with  Compassion  to  the  Poor,  or  favour 
to  the  Rich,  in  point  of  Justice. 

XI.  That  Popular,  or  Court  Applause,  or  Distaste,  have  no  In- 
fluence into  anything  I  do  in  point  of  Distribution  of  Justice. 

XII.  Not  to  be  sollicitous  what  Men  will  say  or  think,  so  long  as 
I  keep  myself  exactly  according  to  the  Rule  of  Justice. 

168 


RULES  FOR  JUDICIAL  CONDUCT  169 

XIII.  If  in  Criminals  it  be  a  measuring  Cast,  to  incline  to  Mercy 
and  Acquittal. 

XIV.  In  Criminals  that  consist  merely  in  words,  where  no  more- 
harm  ensues,  Moderation  is  no  Injustice. 

XV.  In  Criminals  of  Blood,  if  the  Fact  be  Evident,  Severity  is 
Justice. 

XVI.  To  abhor  all  private  Solicitations,  of  what  kind  soever,  and 
by  whom  soever,  in  Matters  depending. 

XVII.  To  charge  my  Servants,  1.  Not  to  interpose  in  any  Busi- 
ness whatsoever,  2.  Not  to  take  more  than  their  known  Fees,  3.  Not 
to  give  any  undue  precedence  to  Causes,  4.  Not  to  recommend 
Councill. 

XVIII.  To  be  short  and  sparing  at  Meals,  that  I  may  be  the  fitter 
for  Business. 


THE      THREE      READERS 


PL  n  i  r    '  - 


A:'     /f'  /    \  / 

.-::*-..^  ,...%•  i. ■:?■ 

^  -----   r,  ;  V       •"".     - 


Section  II:  Selected  by  Sinclair  Lewis 


Introductory  Remarks 


Of  that  bright,  hardy  country  which  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
Great  Valley— Wisconsin,  Iowa,  Minnesota,  the  Dakotas,  with 
slivers  of  Illinois  and  Michigan— one  would  be  able  to  trace  the 
whole  history  in  a  narrow  shelf  of  fiction:  Rolvaag's  Giants  in  the 
Earth,  Rose  Wilder  Lane's  Let  the  Hurricane  Roar,  Hamlin  Gar- 
land's Main-Travelled  Roads,  the  books  of  Zona  Gale  and  August 
Derleth,  the  city  novels  of  Grace  Flandrau  and  William  McNally  and 
Margaret  Culkin  Banning,  and,  as  a  spiritual  accounting  of  the 
whole  business,  the  two  short  novels  reprinted  in  this  book:  Ruth 
Suckow's  Country  People  and  Eleanor  Green's  The  Hill. 

Since  they  all  possess  reality,  these  stories  fit  together,  no  matter 
how  varied  the  moods.  Harrit  and  Vinnie,  the  highly  literate  Ameri- 
can girls  of  The  Hill,  might  be  the  granddaughters  of  Miss  Suckow's 
German  August  Kaetterhenry,  or  Rolvaag's  Norwegian  Per  Hansa, 
or  Rose  Lane's  Yankee  Charles,  or  of  Garland's  Civil  War  soldier 
limping  up  a  Wisconsin  coolly. 

The  first  three  of  these  crossed  the  Mississippi  into  a  shining  deso- 
late prairie  at  about  the  same  time,  between  1870  and  1880— only 
seventy  years  ago.  These  novels  tell  better  than  maps  and  figures 
how  that  hostile  sun-land  became  human. 

They  indicate,  too,  how  varied  the  prairie  civilization  became  in 
less  than  three  generations.  Regarding  any  new  society  it  is  highly 
common  and  even  more  highly  irritating  for  outsiders  to  speak  of  it 
as  uncomplex  and  insular.  In  this  goodly  year  of  1943,  when  the  Rus- 
sians say  to  the  British— and  the  British  say  to  the  New  Yorkers— and 
the  New  Yorkers  say  to  all  Middlewesterners,  ''When  are  you  fellows 
going  to  wake  up  and  hear  about  this  war  that's  going  on?"  then  the 
amount  of  heat  kindled  is  about  equal  in  all  three  cases. 

The  Midwestern  mentality  is  at  least  as  contradictory  as  that  of 
New  England.  One  or  both  of  the  grandfathers  of  Vinnie,  in  The 
Hill,  may  well  have  been  a  Dakota  homesteader.  He  lived  in  a  dark 

173 


174  SINCLAIR  LEWIS 

dugout,  he  was  beset  by  blizzards,  wolves,  armies  of  grasshoppers;  he 
sowed  by  hand  and  plowed  with  oxen;  and  his  laborious  and  risky 
life  was  only  a  hand-turn  different  from  that  of  the  original  Ameri- 
can pioneers  of  1620.  It  was,  indeed,  no  fatter  or  more  secure  than  a 
Saxon  peasant's  existence  in  the  year  1000.  From  the  pioneer's 
arrival  on  the  plains  to  Vinnie  contemplative  on  a  hill  is  in  chronicle 
time  only  fifty  or  sixty  years,  but  in  aspects  of  civilization  it  is  a 
millennium. 

Vinnie's  friends  are  still  of  the  farm,  still  of  the  country  of  La 
Follette,  yet  they  would  be  just  as  much  at  ease  if  they  were  studying 
singing  in  Milan  or  physics  in  Upsala  or  frivolity  in  Cannes.  They 
are  international.  They  and  their  families  have  in  sixty  years  cov- 
ered three  centuries  of  cultural  history,  from  Wesleyanism  to  Freud- 
ianism,  from  witchcraft  to  hysteria.  Possibly  they  have  ripened  too 
quickly,  and  grown  soft,  ready  for  the  pessimistic  eye  of  a  Spengler. 

In  their  preoccupation  with  the  delicate  flight  of  bird  and  cloud 
and  fragile  country  sound,  in  their  self-defeating  demand  for  no  less 
than  perfection  in  love,  their  quivering  consciousness  that  old  peo- 
ple are  frustrated  and  tragic  because  none  of  them  has  known  an 
undiminishing  passion,  in  all  their  sympathetic  yet  neurotic  sen- 
sitivity, Eleanor  Green's  young  people  are,  like  the  cultural  refugees 
of  the  Left  Bank,  circa  1925,  or  like  T.  S.  Eliot  or  Ezra  Pound  or 
Isadora,  iridescent  flies  caught  in  the  black  web  of  an  ancient  and 
amoral  European  culture.  They  have  in  imagination  returned  to 
the  Europe  from  which  their  grandfathers  fled,  but  they  have  re- 
turned to  the  coffee  houses,  not  to  the  hills. 

They  know  and  shiver  to  a  beauty  that  their  pioneer  ancestors 
never  conceived;  if  their  prairie  is  more  narrow  in  acres,  it  is  ten 
times  more  crowded  with  exhausting  wonder,  and  if  they  have  shut 
out  the  blizzard,  they  have  also  shut  it  in. 

To  the  grandparents,  if  they  are  still  alive— and  they  easily  may 
be,  aged  somewhere  over  eighty— these  modern  children  must  seem 
selfish,  idle,  weak,  and  terrified  of  ghosts;  armored  in  luxuries  of 
which  the  old  folks  never  heard,  yet  whimpering  because  some 
finicky  sweetheart  does  not  like  the  length  of  their  noses.  And  to 
the  grandchildren,  the  pioneers  seem  as  hard  and  narrow  as  the  steel 
rails  that,  on  a  prairie  track,  stretch  bleakly  out  till  they  meet. 

And  how  wrong  both  generations  are!  If  the  characteristic  Ameri- 
can jump  from  potatoes  straight  to  Proust  is  a  little  dismaying,  it 
also  indicates  a  lively  and  incalculable  mind. 

The  young  generation  has,  in  the  airplane  cockpits  of  1943,  re- 


INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS  175 

vealed  that  under  its  glib  and  glittering  sloth,  it  has  as  much  iron  as 
anything  on  the  frontier.  On  the  other  hand,  the  older  generation 
once  had,  in  the  first  sight  of  the  young  wheat,  in  sleep  after  toil,  in 
visits  to  neighbors,  in  reading  aloud  from  the  Old  Testament's 
poetry  and  tricky  ethics,  in  annual  pilgrimages  to  some  vasty  city  of 
five  hundred  population,  a  course  of  pleasures  that  were  not  essen- 
tially different  from  the  ecstasies  of  these  young  people  over  a  dive 
bomber  or  over  the  Shostakovich  Seventh  conducted  by  Mitropoulos. 
In  the  years  outlined  by  Miss  Suckow  and  Miss  Green  together, 
we  have  a  flight  through  time  dizzier  than  any  fantasy  of  H.  G.  Wells. 

II 

The  fiction  of  Eleanor  Green  is  as  shy  and  secluded  as  a  marsh  at 
sunset,  with  the  coloring  rich  beyond  the  soft  browns  of  the  fore- 
ground, but  it  has  none  of  the  Celtic  Twilight  of  earlier  lady  nov- 
elists because,  though  she  loves  mistiness,  she  also  has  a  passion  of 
tenderness  and  pity  for  ordinary  human  beings.  As: 

"She  realized  with  exquisite  clarity  what  living  had  meant  to  her 
father.  These  many  years  they  had  lived  together,  he  and  her  mother, 
and  these  many  years  he  had  hungered  for  her  love.  Being  a  shy 
man,  he  thought  that  he  annoyed  her,  and  so  had  sought  in  every 
way  to  make  himself  as  inconspicuous  as  possible.  If  it  is  my  hands, 
Vinnie  imagined  him  thinking,  I  will  keep  my  hands  from  her 
sight.  If  it  is  my  hair  or  the  way  my  whiskers  grow,  I  shall  keep  my 
hair  cut  and  my  face  shaven.  If  it  is  my  mouth,  or  the  way  I  eat  my 
food,  I  shall  say  little  and  chew  carefully." 

Miss  Green  has  brought  off  a  difficult  technique  in  allowing  for 
the  whole  time-extent  of  her  story  only  four  or  five  hours.  The  out- 
ward events  are  as  simple  as  they  are  brief:  a  Wisconsin  village  family 
goes  picknicking,  and  afterward,  Vinnie  meets  her  lover.  But  we 
know  the  whole  family  and  their  hidden  hearts,  and  the  little  Wis- 
consin valley  where  "the  shadows  lay  in  a  blanket  over  the  sheep 
and  the  grass,  the  deer  and  the  thrush,  and  the  whole  place  was  be- 
witched." 

Eleanor  Green  is  still  very  young,  and  as  yet  she  has  published 
only  three  brief  novels:  The  Hill  and  Pastoral  and  Ariadne  Spin- 
ning. She  has  seen  enough  of  New  York  and  of  an  Eastern  college, 
but  she  has  had  the  good  sense  to  live  mostly  in  the  Wisconsin  where 
she  was  born.  That  is  very  fortunate  for  Wisconsin,  whether  or  no 
that  lovely  state  is  aware  of  the  fact. 


i?6  SINCLAIR  LEWIS 


III 


Where  Miss  Green  skims  through  the  trees,  a  bird  at  twilight, 
Miss  Suckow  tramps  the  road  at  hot  noon.  I  don't  know  which  will 
get  the  farther,  nor  whether  loops  and  lineal  rods  can  be  compared. 

Ruth  Suckow,  born  in  1892  in  Grant  Wood's  Iowa,  where  there 
is  nothing  to  be  seen  but  corn  stalks  and  college  towers  and  secre- 
taries of  agriculture,  has  stayed  there  except  for  aberrations  into 
heathen  California  and  Greenwich  Village,  and  that  is  very  fortunate 
for  Iowa,  which  she  has  re-created  in  such  genuinely  native  novels  as 
The  Folks  and  The  Bonney  Family  and  the  recently  published  New 
Hope,  with  its  beautiful  memory  of  the  magic  that  is  in  the  mind  of 
a  growing  boy. 

No  doubt  it  has  been  suggested  to  Miss  Suckow  as  not  being  a 
virtue  that  she  seems  more  pedestrian  than  such  thunderous  pietists 
as  Rolvaag,  whose  Norske  God  rides  every  blizzard,  or  the  more 
fanciful  school  of  Zona  Gale  and  Eleanor  Green.  This  suggestion 
Miss  Suckow  has  answered  with  spirit,  in  her  own  comments  on  her 
Country  People: 

"The  book  is  not  an  attempt  to  sum  up  all  of  rural  life.  It  is  not 
'a  saga  of  the  pioneers'  nor  yet  'an  epic  of  the  soil.'  In  certain  re- 
spects, as  a  rural  novel,  it  is  not  typical,  but  perhaps  unique.  There 
is  no  writer  or  artist  concealed  among  its  characters  who  is  destined 
to  come  back  ...  to  write  a  book  about,  or  paint  a  picture  of,  the 
farm  of  August  Kaetterhenry.  August  himself  never  offers  a  soliloquy 
upon  The  Soil;  he  never  seduces  a  hired  girl;  and  he  dies  in  bed, 
not  overlooking  his  broad  acres,  nor  clutching  a  handful  of  his  own 
good  earth.  The  author  suggests  that,  if  on  no  other  grounds,  she 
deserves  credit  for  such  abstentions.  .  .  .  The  style  has  no  particular 
beauty  of  its  own.  Yet  it  does  fit  the  subject  matter:  in  its  careful 
country  minutiae,  its  touch  of  dry  country  humor,  even  its  hardness 
and  tightness.  It  has  a  certain  monotonous  music,  like  the  tuneless 
air  of  the  windmill  in  the  stillness  of  the  country  air." 

If  Miss  Suckow  and  Miss  Green  are  opposite  in  almost  every 
mood— so  much  the  better  for  the  Great  Valley  which  produced 
them  and  which  in  turn  they  are  now  producing. 

IV 

Aside  from  their  regional  kinship,  Country  People  and  The  Hill 
have  a  tie  in  being  excellent  samples  of  a  swift-winged  and  not  too 
common  form  of  fiction:  the  short  novel,  which  conveys  an  impres- 


INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS  177 

sion  of  life  without  either  the  incompleteness  of  the  short  story  or 
the  often  tiresome  insistence  of  the  long  novel.  It  has  been  rather 
neglected,  perhaps  because  magazine  editors  consider  a  tale  of  thirty 
or  forty  thousand  words  too  long,  and  the  book-publishers  wail  that 
it  is  too  short. 

Of  this  genre  there  have  been  only  a  few  American  masters,  such 
as  Willa  Cather,  Joseph  Hergesheimer,  Edith  Wharton,  Henry 
James,  Hamlin  Garland,  Sarah  Orne  Jewett.  To  them  may  be  added 
now  Eleanor  Green  and,  though  most  of  her  stories  run  longer,  Ruth 
Suckow.  They  indicate  that  if  a  man  has  written  twenty  thousand 
excellent  words,  it  is  not  always  desirable  to  add  to  the  pot  some 
eighty  thousand  words  of  tediousness  in  order  to  call  the  resultant 
stew  a  Novel. 

SINCLAIR    LEWIS 


The  Hill 


BY  ELEANOR  GREEN 


I:    THE  MIDDLE  OF  A  MOSS 

They  moved  slowly,  a  human  caravan  laden  with  memories  that 
weighed  more  heavily  upon  them  than  the  baskets  of  food  which 
they  carried.  It  must  have  been  so,  for  the  young  went  ahead,  eager 
to  find  a  place  to  stop,  while  the  old  dragged  behind,  knowing  how 
grotesque  anticipation  may  be.  A  girl  with  vivid  hair  led  them.  The 
wind  made  sails  of  her  hair  and  she  was  sent  forward  like  a  ship.  Walk- 
ing behind  her  it  was  hard  to  know  when  her  feet  touched  the  earth, 
and  the  bottoms  of  her  feet,  revealing  themselves  as  she  walked,  were 
like  the  backwash  of  a  boat,— constant,  recurring.  The  motions  of  her 
body  were  not  careful  and  quiet,  as  the  others'  were;  she  walked  along 
the  road,  the  road  that  lay  between  forest  and  cornfield,  lightly,  and 
so  swiftly  that  the  sand  could  not  catch  the  imprint  of  her  foot,  nor 
move  quickly  enough  to  encircle  it.  She  might  well  have  been  a 
figurehead  upon  a  ship,  but  the  vessel  moved  reluctantly  behind  her. 
She  preceded  it  like  a  thought.  The  girl's  name  was  Harrit. 

It  was  Vinnie's  thought  that  Harrit  moved  like  a  ship.  But  if 
Harrit  were  figurehead,  she,  Vinnie,  was  the  stern  of  the  ship,  for  she 
came  last.  After  her  there  followed  a  wave  of  footprints,  a  foam  of 
dust.  Between  the  two  sisters,  between  the  prow  and  the  stern  of  the 
boat,  rode  the  rest  of  the  family,  spending  a  week  cruising  about 
together  in  the  past,  sailing  into  forgotten  inlets,  down  sheltered 
streams.  They  had  come  together,  making  the  home  of  Vinnie's 
parents  their  port.  From  it,  from  time  to  time,  they  would  make 
short  excursions,  returning  to  their  port  at  night,  returning  to  the 
family  in  the  midst  of  which  to  rest.  They  were  making  one  of  those 
excursions  now.  They  were  steering  their  craft  toward  a  hill,  and 
Harrit,  her  hair  bellied  out  like  a  sail,  cut  the  wind  with  her  body, 
and  her  feet  floated  over  the  water. 

Vinnie  stopped  suddenly  at  sight  of  Harrit  standing  on  a  project- 

179 


180  ELEANOR  GREEN 

ing  rock.  Her  body,  sheathed  in  orange,  alert  and  sharp,  shone  like 
a  dagger  held  into  the  light  of  a  fire.  She  was  motionless,  her  eyes 
looking  out  over  the  marshes  to  the  far  hills,  to  the  world  that  lay 
beyond  the  hills.  The  rest  of  the  family,— cousins  and  aunts,  parents 
and  uncles,— moved  on,  drawing  themselves  nearer  to  Harrit  as  a 
tired  man  shins  a  rope,— slowly,  laboriously.  Harrit  looked  out  past 
the  limits  of  man's  sight.  She  was  not  bounded  by  sky  and  earth,  by 
hill  and  marsh,  as  the  others  were.  She  stood  on  the  shore  of  woman- 
hood sounding  the  depths  of  the  water,  knowing  the  beauties  and 
the  horrors  of  the  deep  sea,  feeling  herself  to  be  ephemeral,  and  yet, 
by  some  inscrutable  grace,  important.  To  the  family,  moving  labori- 
ously on,  she  was  a  red-headed  girl  in  an  orange  dress  who  stood 
waiting  upon  a  rock.  To  Vinnie,  who  had  the  generosity  to  attribute 
to  all  men  more  good  than  she  knew  to  exist,  more  grace  than  any 
saw,  Harrit  was  figurehead  and  ship  and  the  spray  that  follows  the 
ship.  She  was  motion  in  her  most  quiet  moment,  she  suggested  air 
and  wind  and  flying  things,  she  suggested  gayety  and  joy,  and  to 
Vinnie,  who  was  three  years  her  elder,  she  was  the  essence  of  beauty. 

Harrit  turned,  and  Vinnie  saw  her  draw  her  attention  to  one  and 
then  another  of  her  relatives,  until  finally  her  eyes  met  Vinnie's. 
Between  them,  one  standing  on  a  rock  looking  down,  the  other 
standing  in  a  road  looking  up,  there  hung  a  delicate  web  of  thought. 
In  the  sunlight  it  sparkled  and  turned,  like  a  spider's  web;  it  changed 
color  and  then  changed  back  again.  Vinnie,  standing  tiptoe  to  the 
moment,  felt  this  thing  between  them  to  be  tangible.  I  wonder,  she 
said  to  herself,  how  it  is  that  such  a  thing  exists? 

The  late  afternoon  was  being  lulled  to  sleep  by  crickets;  dark 
shadows  lay  in  strips  across  the  meadows;  the  air  was  sweet  and 
warm,  like  scented  eiderdown.  Above  the  high  rocks  dark  birds 
dropped  into  the  sunlight,  and  dove,  calling,  deep  into  the  air.  Cows, 
half-bored,  half-philosophic,  gave  meaning  to  the  meadows.  Fences 
overgrown  with  wild  grapes  marked  one  man's  acres  or  another's. 
Butterflies  the  color  of  blue  china  tantalized  the  flowers.  As  it  had 
been  for  decades,  so  it  was  now.  Nature  fulfilled  herself,  gave  beauty 
to  her  agents,  mystery  to  her  intent.  The  still  afternoon  tucked  the 
hills  in;  a  narrow  stream  of  water  glided  like  a  snake  among  the 
marsh  grass  and  the  willows,  and  between  Vinnie  and  Harrit,  who 
were  also  Nature's  agents,  hung  the  rare  web  of  understanding.  It 
was  pliable;  the  wind  did  not  break  it.  So  sure  was  Vinnie  of  the 
tangibility  of  it  that  she  reached  up  to  touch  it.  Harrit  thought  she 
was  waving,  and  waved  back,  turned  and  jumped  swiftly  from  rock 
to  rock  and  disappeared  into  a  clump  of  trees.  Vinnie  moved  on. 


THE  HILL  181 

When  she  caught  up  with  the  others  they  were  already  settling 
themselves.  Juliette  sat  on  a  camp  chair  with  a  black  umbrella  over 
her  head.  Uncle  John  was  watching  an  ant  through  a  microscope. 
Her  mother  was  spreading  a  cloth  on  the  grass,  setting  pickles  and 
olives,  jelly  and  butter  at  the  four  corners  to  keep  the  wind  from 
crowding  under.  Stewart  was  making  a  daisy  chain.  He  sat  in  the 
midst  of  a  field  of  high  grasses  and  reached  out  with  his  thin  arms 
to  pick  the  yellow  daisies.  Only  his  head  and  shoulders  could  be 
seen.  The  grass  closed  in  upon  him  like  light,  or  water.  Harrit  lay 
in  the  shadow  of  a  great  pine  tree,  her  hair  falling  against  the  dried 
needles  like  bright  creepers  from  a  plant.  From  the  hill  came  the 
sound  of  children's  voices.  The  small  cousins,  Jane,  Mary,  Sibyl, 
David  and  Joie,  were  racing  to  the  top.  Susan  and  Marie  stood  over 
the  fire.  Vinnie,  like  a  shepherd  counting  his  sheep,  numbered  them 
to  herself.  One,  two,  three,  four,  five  children,  five  grownups,  three 
in-betweens.  No,  that  was  wrong;  fourteen  of  them  had  started. 

Mr.  Morison,  his  arms  laden  with  dry  wood,  came  through  the 
trees. 

Of  course,  said  Vinnie.  There's  Father. 

Working  quietly  with  her  mother,  unwrapping  silver,  opening 
bottles,  Vinnie  considered  the  isolation  of  personality.  Each  one  of 
them,  she  reflected,  remains  himself.  Seeing  them  separately  occu- 
pied, reviewing  the  picture  of  them  as  she  straightened  up,  Vinnie 
felt  that  she  had  seen  it  all  before.  It  was  inevitable  that  each  should 
do  just  as  he  was  doing.  Even  Juliette  under  her  black  umbrella, 
with  her  hands  folded  in  her  lap.  Even  Stewart  in  the  midst  of  the 
daisy  field.  And  myself?  she  asked.  Yes,  and  myself. 

She  was  not  doing  what  she  wanted  to  do,  but  it  was  her  nature 
to  do  what  others  expected  of  her.  She  was  quick  to  sacrifice  herself 
for  the  petty  and  limitless  desires  of  those  about  her. 

The  children  are  like  all  children,  she  thought.  Their  voices 
floated  like  a  cloud  above  her. 

Suddenly  Harrit  burst  into  laughter.  Like  a  waterfall  her  voice 
started  high  and  in  broken  tones  fell  into  a  pool  of  glee.  "Stewart!" 
she  shrieked.  "Stewart!"  Again  her  voice  tumbled  from  the  precipice, 
again  it  lost  itself  in  its  own  sound,  was  drowned  in  itself. 

Vinnie,  who  was  unable  to  turn  quickly  because  of  an  ingenious 
feat  of  balancing  which  she  was  performing  in  transferring  a  cake 
from  its  box  to  a  plate,  heard  Harrit's  laughter,  and  before  she  had 
seen  Stewart  her  voice  joined  Harrit's  in  the  pool  of  sound.  At  last 
she  was  free  to  enjoy  the  spectacle.  And  such  it  was,  for  in  the  center 
of  the  daisy  field  stood  Stewart,  stripped  of  his  clothes,  with  a  crown 


182  ELEANOR  GREEN 

of  daisies  upon  his  head,  a  chain  of  them  around  his  neck,  and  a 
loincloth  dexterously  woven  and  fitted  about  his  middle.  In  his 
hands  he  held  a  brown-eyed  Susan,  and  very  patiently  waited  to  be 
admired.  His  long  body,  growing  daisy-bedecked  out  of  the  field, 
frightened  the  birds,  and  they  flew  about  scolding.  From  all  the 
treetops  they  came,  beating  the  air  with  horrified  wings  like  a  flock 
of  winged  Christians.  Vinnie  held  her  sides  with  her  hands,  lest 
laughter  wrench  her  apart.  Harrit,  rolling  under  the  pine  tree,  threw 
the  needles  over  her  head;  she  was  showered  with  a  sharp,  sweet- 
smelling  rain.  Uncle  John,  his  microscope  forgotten,  laughed  silently, 
his  mirth  shaking  him;  he  was  unable  to  maintain  his  equilibrium 
under  the  strain  of  it.  Marie  and  Susan,  twins  in  position,  stood,  legs 
apart,  arms  akimbo,  with  roasting  forks  in  their  hands.  Mrs.  Morison, 
whose  levity  was  seasonal  and  whose  season  at  present  was  winter, 
busied  herself  with  the  cloth.  Mr.  Morison,  picking  up  dry  sticks 
in  the  woods,  watched,  fascinated,  through  a  break  in  the  foliage. 
He  was  laughing  quietly,  the  tears  rolling  down  his  face,  the  leaves 
about  him  quivering.  Juliette  held  her  umbrella  before  her  face. 
She  sat  frightened  and  eager  before  this  strange  thing  that  was  a 
naked  man.  Hidden  behind  her  shelter  she  was  at  liberty  to  look 
long  and  minutely  at  him.  It  never  occurred  to  her  that  Stewart, 
standing  naked  in  the  daisy  field,  knew  that  she  could  see  him  as 
clearly  through  the  umbrella  as  though  it  were  not  there.  The  um- 
brella allowed  her  a  very  careful  study  of  the  male  anatomy. 

While  they  still  laughed,  Stewart,  being  fundamentally  theatrical, 
sank  down  into  the  grass  as  miraculously  as  he  had  risen.  The  fright- 
ened birds  settled  back  into  the  sky,  carrying  their  distress  with  them. 
Susan  and  Marie  returned  to  the  fire,  Mr.  Morison  closed  the  open- 
ing in  the  foliage  and  scurried  about  like  a  squirrel.  As  he  emerged 
some  minutes  later  laden  with  firewood,  Mrs.  Morison  was  relieved 
to  know  that  her  husband  had  missed  this  latest  folly.  Juliette  re- 
mained behind  her  umbrella,  from  time  to  time  feeling  of  her  fore- 
head, which  was  very  hot.  Harrit  and  Vinnie  floated  upon  the  eddy 
of  their  amusement. 

The  voices  of  the  children  came  nearer.  Now  they  were  bright 
and  clear,  and  again  the  wind  would  carry  the  sound  away.  Marie 
drew  a  policeman's  whistle  from  her  bosom.  She  blew  on  it  three 
times.  The  hills  tossed  the  shrill  sound  from  one  to  another.  It 
scratched  at  the  sky  like  the  voices  of  women  who  sit  long  at  their 
supper  gossiping.  Once  again  she  blew  thrice  upon  it,  and  the  sound 
of  the  whistle  lay  over  the  marsh.  The  leaves  on  the  willow  trees 
trembled,  and  the  grasses  along  the  creek  bent  down  into  the  water. 


THE  HILL  183 

Standing  in  the  midst  of  her  family,  Vinnie  was  isolated  by  a  sud- 
den awareness  of  eternity.  Reality  hung  like  a  ragged  garment  about 
her.  Once  she  may  have  been  clothed  by  the  sense  of  time  and  the 
sequence  of  things,  but  the  metallic  note  of  the  whistle  tiad  cut  like 
small  blades  through  the  cloth  of  her  mind,  and  it  hung  in  shreds 
about  her.  She  shivered,  chilled  by  her  new  perception.  Across  miles 
of  feeling  came  her  mother's  voice.  "No,  I  am  not  cold,"  she  an- 
swered, and  slowly  drew  her  mind  back  to  these  people.  The  echo 
of  the  whistle  rolled  over  the  hills.  The  strange  calm  lay  even  now 
upon  every  bush.  Juliette  was  hidden  behind  her  umbrella;  she  had 
not  come  out  from  behind  it  to  see  this  miracle.  Susan  and  Marie 
bent  witchlike  over  the  fire.  Uncle  John  had  returned  to  his  minute 
study.  Mrs.  Morison  was  strengthening  the  tethers  of  the  tablecloth. 
Mr.  Morison  stood  wary  beside  her.  Harrit  alone  had  heard  it.  She 
sat  motionless;  she  too  was  breathless  before  it.  Vinnie,  who  was 
filigree,  could  not  know  that  Harrit,  who  was  fire,  was  thinking  of 
her  lover. 

The  children  came  down  from  the  hill.  Sibyl  had  found  two 
pheasant  feathers.  They  waved  above  her  helmet  of  hair.  Mary  and 
Jane  carried  pine  cones  and  wild  flowers,  David,  an  armful  of  dry 
sticks,  and  Joie,  occupied  with  a  bulge  in  his  blouse,  came  last,  step- 
ping carefully.  Vinnie  alone  welcomed  their  return. 

"What  is  it,  Joie?"  she  asked. 

Joie  whispered  his  answer.  "It's  a  rabbit.  A  little  rabbit." 

"A  rabbit,  Joie?  Where  did  you  find  it?"  Vinnie  also  was  whis- 
pering. 

"It  came  to  me.  I  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  a  moss,  and  all  of 
a  sudden  he  was  there,  just  like  that." 

Joie  winked  at  Vinnie  to  show  how  the  rabbit  was  there,  just  like 
that.  There  was  pride,  in  bright  splotches,  among  his  freckles;  his 
brown  eyes  were  serious.  Vinnie  knew  that  if  the  rabbit  were  taken 
from  him  tears  would  wash  away  the  dark,  intent  look,  and  his  eyes 
would  be  hurt  and  frightened,  as  though  life  centered  in  the  soft 
warm  body.  As  indeed  it  did.  For  Vinnie,  possibly  because  of  her 
quite  recent  perception  of  eternity,  possibly  because  she  remembered 
her  own  childhood,  realized  that  children  alone  live  in  the  present. 
Live  now,  this  moment,  with  no  thought  of  the  future,  of  tomorrow 
and  the  day  after,  and  next  week  and  a  million  years  hence.  She  felt 
that  the  cycle  of  human  experience  finds  its  axis  in  children,  that 
the  moment  at  hand  is  for  a  child  fragile  and  everlasting. 

"Just  like  that,"  Joie  said  again,  and  turning  away  from  his 
mother,  he  opened  his  blouse  so  that  Vinnie  might  peek.  Against 


184  ELEANOR  GREEN 

his  stomach  lay  the  young  rabbit,  his  eyes  closed,  his  nose  pressed 
into  Joie's  navel.  "Isn't  he  a  nice  one?"  Joie's  face  grew  hot  with 
pleasure.  "Did  you  ever  see  anything  so  cute?  Did  you?  Did  you, 
Vinnie?  Did  you  ever?" 
"Never,"  said  Vinnie. 

"But  what'll  I  do  with  it?  I  mean  so's  Mother  won't  see?  She  won't 
let  me  keep  it,  you  know  she  won't.  I  gotta  hide  it  someplace.  What'll 
I  do,  Vinnie?"  He  laid  his  free  hand  on  Vinnie's  arm,  fright  robbing 
his  eyes  of  their  pleasure.  "You  help  me,  Vinnie,  will  you?" 

Vinnie  pressed  her  finger  to  her  lips.  "Sh,"  she  said.  "Don't  let 
them  hear." 

But  it  was  too  late.  Marie,  straightening  up  from  the  fire,  saw 
them  whispering  and  guessed  a  conspiracy.  "Joie!"  she  called  in  a 
round,  deep-echoing  voice.  She  had  resumed  her  watchful  position, 
with  legs  apart,  arms  akimbo.  The  heat  of  the  fire  lent  no  kindness 
to  her  face,  and  the  roasting  fork  was  a  menacing  weapon. 

"Vinnie,"  cried  Joie.  He  closed  his  blouse  front  and  folded  his 
arms  across  the  lump  the  rabbit  made.  Vinnie  smiled  at  him,  pledg- 
ing her  loyalty. 

"What  have  you  got  in  your  blouse,  Joie?" 
Joie  made  no  answer. 
"Tell  Mother.  What  is  it?" 
Still  he  said  nothing. 
Joie! 

"A  little  rabbit."  He  spoke  as  though  he  were  betraying  the  little 
animal.  Tears  hovered  in  a  cloud  over  the  sunlit  meadow  of  his 
eyes.  Pride  had  fled  from  his  face,  and  in  its  place  fear,  pale  and 
inarticulate,  made  startling  contrast  with  his  freckles.  "It's  just  a 
little  one,"  he  pleaded. 

"I  don't  care  how  little  it  is,  or  how  big.  If  it's  little,  it'll  be  big 
some  day,  and  if  it's  big  it'll  be  having  little  ones  all  over  the  place. 
Take  it  right  back  where  you  found  it.  And  hurry.  Supper's  all  but 
ready." 

Joie  made  no  move.  The  battle  had  just  begun. 
"Joie,  do  you  hear  me?" 
"It's  my  rabbit." 

"Joie,  how  can  you  say  that?  You  take  a  little  rabbit  out  of  its 
nest  and  then  say  it's  yours." 

"I  didn't  take  it  out  of  its  nest.  I  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  a 
moss,  and  all  of  a  sudden  he  was  there  right  next  to  me.  Just  like 
that."  He  winked  to  show,  once  more,  how  it  was  there,  but  his 
eyelids  pressed  the  tears  from  his  eyes,  and  they  rolled  down  his 


THE   HILL  185 

cheeks.  "I  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  a  moss,"  he  repeated,  "and 
all  of  a  sudden " 

"I  don't  care  where  you  were  sitting,  Joie  Carter,  I  won't  have 
a  rabbit  cluttering  up  my  house.  You  might  as  well  make  up  your 
mind  to  it  now.  Sooner  or  later  you  will  have  to  take  the  thing  back 
up  the  hill,  and  you  might  as  well  do  it  now,  and  have  done  with  it. 
And  hurry,  before  your  supper  gets  cold." 

Stewart,  walking  up  from  the  daisy  field,  fully  clad  but  carrying 
the  daisy  chain  in  his  hand,  called  out  to  Marie  to  let  him  keep  the 
rabbit.  "It  might  be  a  male,"  he  suggested.  Mrs.  Morison  gave  her 
attention  to  cutting  the  bread.  Susan  stood  at  the  fire,  encouraging 
Marie.  Juliette  took  refuge  behind  her  umbrella. 

"After  all,"  said  Stewart,  "if  women  will  have  children  they  should 
remember  that  children  will  have  rabbits." 

His  words  fell  limp.  Only  Harrit  heard.  Stirling  her  laughter,  she 
rolled  in  the  pine  needles. 

"Joie,  go  this  minute.  Don't  let  Mother  have  to  speak  again." 

Joie  turned  to  Vinnie.  The  warm  thing  was  moving  against  him. 
Its  cold  nose  poked  at  his  navel,  and  its  whiskers  tickled  the  delicate 
surface  of  his  stomach.  "It's  moving  against  me,"  he  said,  the  tears 
streaming  down  his  cheeks.  "I  can't  let  him  go,  Vinnie.  He's  moving 
against  me. 

"He  came  to  me,"  he  added.  "I  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  a  moss 
and  all  of  a  sudden  he  was  there,  just  like  that." 

Vinnie  knelt  down  beside  him,  covering  him  over  with  the  mantle 
of  her  affection.  Between  Joie  and  her  lay  the  young  rabbit  moving 
slightly  and  making  a  frightened  sound.  She  held  Joie  carefully  lest 
she  hurt  the  animal  between  them,  but  she  could  feel  the  motion  and 
the  design  of  its  body.  Together  they  protected  it.  Vinnie  thought 
that  the  thing  moving  against  her  might  have  been  a  baby. 

"Let  him  keep  it,  Marie."  She  hardly  knew  that  she  spoke.  "He 
loves  it  so.  It  will  make  only  a  little  bother,  and  it  must  be  worth 
it  to  see  him  so  pleased  with  a  thing.  I'm  sure  Joie  will  clean  up 
after  it.  Won't  you,  Joie?" 

Hearing  Vinnie's  comforting  voice,  Joie  took  heart,  and  running 
to  his  mother  he  opened  his  blouse.  "See,  Mum,  he's  such  a  nice 
one.  He's  so  soft.  He  feels  good  against  me.  And  he  likes  me;  he's 
got  his  nose  right  in  my  button." 

Vinnie  marveled  that  any  woman  could  stand  up  under  such  en- 
treaty. For  a  long  moment  in  which  mother  and  son  gazed  at  each 
other,  the  parent  punishing  the  child  with  a  cold  smile,  the  child 
pleading  through  his  tears,  Vinnie  pressed  her  hands  against  her 


186  ELEANOR  GREEN 

cheek.  Don't  say  no,  she  said  to  herself.  Don't  do  it.  He'll  remember 
it,  and  when  you're  old  he'll  tell  you  and  you  will  cry  at  night.  When 
your  son  is  grown  and  when  he  has  gone  away,  the  memory  of  today 
will  be  stark  company.  Don't  do  it,  Marie.  Don't  do  it. 

Upon  whatever  gods  there  might  be,  though  Vinnie  found  it  im- 
possible to  believe  in  any,  she  called.  Upon  the  saints  of  men  and  the 
saints  of  animals;  upon  the  gods  of  love  and  the  gods  of  mercy;  upon 
nature;  upon  the  Virgin  Mary.  Such  things,  thought  Vinnie,  such 
little  things  as  this,  make  children  hate,  make  rebels  out  of  men. 
Of  such  little  things  comes  sorrow.  Of  such  trivial  substance,  joy. 
These  little  things,  she  thought,  make  life  or  mar  it.  Don't  mar  Joie, 
Marie.  You  wouldn't  crush  his  head,  you  wouldn't  deform  his  body. 
Keep  your  hands  away  from  him,  keep  your  hands  from  his  heart. 
Let  him  have  his  rabbit. 

"Go  now,  young  man." 

Joie  ran  to  Vinnie.  Once  again  she  took  him  in  her  arms. 

"Joie,  darling,  don't  cry,"  she  said.  He  trembled  against  her.  It  is 
worse  than  death,  thought  Vinnie,  to  see  a  child  like  this.  "Don't  cry, 
Joie,  don't  cry." 

"My  dear  Vinnie,"  said  Marie.  "If  you  don't  mind!" 

"But  I  do  mind,  Marie.  I  mind  very  much." 

"Come,"  said  Mrs.  Morison.  "Supper  is  all  ready." 

"You  may  take  the  rabbit  back  after  supper,  Joie.  Come  now  and 
eat,  and  stop  your  crying." 

"I'll  take  the  rabbit,  Marie.  I  couldn't  eat  under  the  same  tree 
with  you.  And  don't  wait  for  me  to  come  back.  I'll  walk  home  alone." 

Joie  gave  the  rabbit  to  Vinnie  without  hesitating.  They  had  more 
in  common  than  their  love  for  the  little  thing.  After  she  had  taken 
it  in  her  arms  Joie  ran  toward  the  thicket  in  which  Mr.  Morison  had 
taken  refuge,  but  just  as  he  reached  it,  he  stopped  and  ran  back.  He 
laid  his  head  close  to  the  rabbit,  smelled  of  its  fur,  touched  noses 
with  it.  Then  he  kissed  it,  his  tears  falling  like  warm  rain  into  its 
ears,  and  ran  back  to  the  thicket  where  Mr.  Morison  waited  with 
his  arms  outstretched. 

Vinnie  turned  from  them.  She  walked  carefully,  bending  the 
branches  gently  lest  she  break  them.  To  Stewart,  who  watched  her, 
spellbound,  she  was  like  a  saint,  like  a  madonna  with  the  rabbit  in 
her  arms.  Her  dark  hair,  braided  about  her  head,  reaching  out  with 
fine  feelers  to  catch  at  the  sunlight,  was  like  a  halo,  and  the  blue  of 
her  dress  was  lost  in  the  shadows  of  the  bushes;  she  became  a  part 
of  the  woods.  She  walked  away  from  them  up  the  hill,  picking  her 
way  carefully,  her  head  bent,  her  body  lending  protection  to  the 


THE  HILL  187 

frail  animal.  She  looks  as  though  she  were  saying  a  prayer,  thought 
Stewart. 

And  he  was  right. 

II:    THE  BELLOWS  OF  AN  ACCORDION 

It  was  very  still,  the  delicate  songs  of  birds  and  crickets  lost  in  the 
folds  of  the  afternoon.  On  the  hill  no  leaf  stirred,  but  in  the  valley 
a  soft  wind  rustled  the  leaves  of  the  willow  trees,  and  glimmer- 
ing silver  in  the  sunlight,  they  were  like  silent  bells.  It  was  one  of 
those  fragile  and  immeasurably  beautiful  afternoons  when  living, 
alone,  is  important;  one  of  those  days  when  the  volume  of  the  soul 
seems  infinite,  when  every  sound  that  falls  upon  the  ear,  every  sight 
which  the  eye  beholds,  is  a  thing  imperishable  and  secure.  The  sun, 
shorn  of  its  heat,  and  lying  naked  behind  a  cloud,  sent  out  long 
shafts  of  light,  tight  and  even,  like  the  warp  threads  of  a  loom,  and 
far  below,  in  the  valley,  farmers,  riding  thoughtless  behind  their 
teams,  were  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  gold,  like  gilded  human  toys. 

Vinnie  looked  down  into  the  valley.  Below  her  sat  the  family.  She 
could  see  that  they  were  talking,  though  no  sound  of  their  voices 
could  be  heard.  Seeing  them  from  above,  they  were  squat  little  peo- 
ple, grotesque  and  pitiable.  She  felt,  as  she  lay  upon  the  rock,  the 
rabbit  cradled  in  her  back,  as  though  she  were  a  gargoyle  hewn  for 
some  medieval  cathedral.  My  family,  and  they  know  so  little  of  liv- 
ing. She  felt  saddened  and  hurried.  Time  passed  too  rapidly.  Life 
would  very  soon  be  finished,  and  she  would  have  learned  so  little. 
My  family,  she  said  again.  They  know  so  little  of  living.  The  stream 
of  her  pity  fell  heavily  upon  them,  like  rain  emptied  swiftly  from  a 
spout. 

She  looked  down  upon  them  and  with  the  blade  of  her  imagina- 
tion made  deep  incisions  into  their  lives.  "It  was  strange,"  she  said 
aloud,  "how  little  I  wanted  them  to  come.  But  now  that  they're 
here,  I  love  them  all."  Her  mental  fingers  moved  swiftly  through 
their  task. 

They  sat  below  her  in  the  valley,  unaware  of  the  operation  being 
performed  upon  them.  Paralyzed  by  the  mechanical  motions  of  life, 
they  were  unable  to  react  to  the  delicate  instruments  of  sympathetic 
thought.  They  ignored  beauty  in  one  another  and  shut  themselves 
in  so  that  no  faintest  perfume  of  delicacy  could  escape.  Like  butter- 
flies, once  beautiful,  who  wind  themselves  into  a  second  cocoon, 
thought  Vinnie.  Her  blade  cut  carefully. 

How  did  it  happen  that  Uncle  John  told  me  about  Grace?  How 


i88  ELEANOR  GREEN 

do  I  come  to  know  my  own  mother  so  much  better  than  before?  How 
can  it  be  that  people  stay  hidden  for  years,  and  then  suddenly  stand 
naked  before  you? 

Filled  with  the  tragedy  of  each  of  them,  feeling  herself  to  be  not 
only  Vinnie  but  the  shell  for  these  others  as  well,  like  a  pregnant 
woman  who  loses  her  identity  and  becomes  something  more  than 
she  knows  herself  to  be,  Vinnie's  mind  was  weighed  down  with  too 
many  sorrows.  She  felt  that  her  body  was  deformed  by  the  size  of  the 
pity  within  her,  as  the  woman  Dorothea  must  have  felt  before  being 
delivered  of  nine  children  at  one  birth.  And  as  Dorothea  might  have 
regretted  her  conception,  so  Vinnie  rebelled  against  the  tragedy 
grown  great  within  her.  Don't  they  know  that  there  is  no  time  for 
weeping?  Don't  they  know  that  they  have  given  half  of  themselves 
to  me,  that  now  I  also  am  responsible?  But  no  abortive  measures 
were  successful.  She  was  impregnated  with  the  fierce  fluid  of  individ- 
ual failure.  To  Vinnie  it  was  not  tragic  that  each  should  have  had 
a  very  unhappy  experience;  tragedy  lay  in  the  fact  that  no  one  of 
them  had  grown  beyond  it.  And  now  here  am  I,  deformed  by  their 
deformity. 

The  fine  needle  of  memory  drew  the  poison  from  Vinnie's  mind, 
as  a  doctor,  to  relieve  pain,  draws  fluid  from  the  spinal  cord.  She 
heard  again  Harrit's  voice:  "Don't  let  it  come.  I  don't  want  it  to 
come.  Don't  let  it,  Vinnie,  please."  She  will  grow  beyond  it,  thought 
Vinnie.  She  will  not  be  deformed,  nor  paralyzed.  She  surely  will 
grow  beyond  her  tragedy.  But  how  can  it  be  that  she  didn't  tell  me 
sooner?  How  could  she  have  waited  so  long  to  reveal  it? 

The  days  folded  back  upon  themselves  like  plaits  in  the  bellows 
of  an  accordion.  It  was  no  longer  today,  no  longer  Friday.  It  was 
Wednesday,  day  before  yesterday,  at  daybreak. 

"Don't  let  it  come.  I  don't  want  it  to  come.  Don't  let  it,  Vinnie, 
please!" 

Vinnie,  to  whom  each  day  offered  a  miracle,  wakened  suddenly, 
and  discovered  her  sister  kneeling  before  the  window.  She  watched 
Harrit  kneeling  there,  her  bare  feet  arched  against  the  floor,  her 
elbows  on  the  window  sill;  she  noticed  the  straight  back  and  the 
delicate  curves  of  her  thighs.  Seeing  her  there,  kneeling  like  a  child 
at  his  mother's  knee,  Vinnie  thought  how  like  a  mother  to  Harrit 
the  earth,  the  day,  the  sunrise  were.  A  cricket,  making  plaintive 
song  in  the  wide  daybreak,  as  though  the  world  were  too  beautiful, 
even  for  crickets,  caused  Harrit  to  throw  back  her  head  in  delight, 
and  Vinnie  marveled  at  this  first  morning  miracle.  Such  beauty  was 


THE  HILL  189 

seldom  felt,  such  beauty  as  the  cricket's  song  and  Harrit's  body  that 
veritably  leaned  against  the  day  and  added  beauty  to  it.  To  watch 
Harrit  move  was  beauty,  and  to  watch  her  when  her  body  was  still 
was  prayer.  Grace,  strength,  spirit.  How  can  one  person  have  so 
much?  thought  Vinnie.  She  loved  her  own  life  for  allowing  her  a 
part  in  Harrit's. 

"Don't  let  it  come,  Vinnie,"  whispered  Harrit  again. 

"Don't  let  what  come,  Harrit?"  Vinnie  turned  over  in  the  bed 
that  she  might  give  her  whole  attention.  With  this  serene  generosity 
Vinnie  gave  herself  to  everyone,  bestowing  not  only  a  sort  of  com- 
pliment thereby,  but  an  understanding  that  made  speaking  simple. 
So  now  she  gave  herself  completely  to  Harrit's  delicate  world. 

"The  fall!  Don't  let  it  come."  Harrit  turned  from  the  window, 
and  Vinnie  thought  how  shamed  the  beauty  of  the  daylight  lay  be- 
fore Harrit's  beauty. 

"Why  not,  Harrit?" 

"It's  too  lovely.  It  comes  all  of  a  sudden  and  then  it's  all  over,  and 
there's  not  time  enough  to  enjoy  it  as  much  as  I  want.  Only  yester- 
day it  was  spring  and  the  robins  came,  and  now  today  I  heard  a 
cricket  and  the  air  smells  of  forest  fires,  and  before  I  know  it  winter'll 
be  here,  and  everything  will  be  thin  and  cold,  like  an  old  woman 
sleeping  alone.  I  like  the  fall  best  of  any  season  of  the  year,  anyway." 

"You  say  that  about  every  season,  Goosie.  You  said  it  about  spring 
and  summer,  and  you're  saying  it  about  fall,  and  when  winter  comes 
you'll  say  it  about  winter." 

"Oh,  I  know,  but  I  do  love  the  fall.  Don't  you,  Vinnie?" 

"Love  it,"  said  Vinnie,  which  allowed  Harrit  to  return  to  her  own 
world  of  listening  and  beholding.  Vinnie  bade  Harrit  get  back  into 
bed  or  put  something  warm  around  her,  for  though  the  morning  was 
bright,  the  air  was  cold  and  penetrating. 

"In  a  minute  I  will,  Vinnie.  In  a  minute,"  she  said.  Vinnie,  know- 
ing she  would,  recalled  herself  from  Harrit's  world,  and  again  turn- 
ing in  the  bed,  lay  separate,  no  threads  of  thought  binding  Harrit 
and  herself  together. 

Far  out  in  the  valley  below  her  a  lean  spire  pricked  through  the 
threads  of  sunlight,  but  Vinnie,  being  transported  to  day  before  yes- 
terday, did  not  see  it. 

Vinnie  followed  the  pattern  of  her  imaginings  through  the  rooms 
of  the  house.  She  thought  of  Juliette  whose  bedroom  was  downstairs. 
She  imagined  her  in  bed. 


190  ELEANOR  GREEN 

Juliette  wore  a  gown  that  buttoned  high  at  her  neck,  and  a  night- 
cap that  was  starched  and  ruffled.  She  would  lie  straight  in  her  bed, 
the  sheet  turned  carefully  back  over  the  blankets  and  her  arms  close 
to  her  sides.  She  made  only  the  faintest  mound  under  the  bedclothes, 
except  where  her  feet  stood  up  straight  like  two  sentinels  on  guard. 
The  most  unbending  feet,  they  were,  thought  Vinnie,  and  wondered 
if  they  ached  from  holding  them  so  stiff.  She  was  so  immaculate,  so 
precise;  her  motions  were  measured,  her  step  never  varied;  she  al- 
ways walked  with  her  left  hand  laid  carefully  over  her  chest.  You 
always  said  chest  of  Juliette.  Remembering  Harrit's  body,  at  once 
alert  and  peaceful,  pure  and  suggestive,  Vinnie  pitied  Juliette.  She 
understood  her  queer  little  steps  and  her  immaculate  hands  that 
traced  the  edges  of  the  pleats  in  her  skirt,  or  lay  palm  down  upon 
her  lap,  like  two  nuns  absolving  themselves  before  some  stern  and 
superperfect  god.  How  it  must  feel  to  look  at  yourself  at  night  when 
your  clothes  were  off  and  see  a  body  so  barren,  so  sterile!  Loving  life 
and  her  own  body  because  it  was  a  symbol  of  life,  an  instrument  with 
which  she  could  measure  all  living,  Vinnie  understood  Juliette's  life, 
though  only  momentarily.  How  could  anyone  love  life  without  first 
loving  himself?  she  asked.  How  could  you  love  all  men  if  for  yourself 
you  had  no  love?  If  you  were  not  beauty,  how  could  you  know 
beauty;  if  you  were  not  song,  how  could  you  sing?  But  everyone  was 
beautiful,  everyone  was  song,  all  history  lay  within  you;  there  was 
knowledge  and  love,  conquest  and  hate  all  pulsing  under  your  skin. 
But  Juliette  didn't  pulse;  her  blood  trickled  through  her  veins.  And 
thinking  this,  Vinnie  loved  her  aunt  for  the  things  she  had  missed, 
and  pitied  her  for  the  thing  she  was. 

How  strange,  how  good  to  see  her  in  this  way,  she  thought,  and 
wondered  why  she  had  never  seen  her  so  before.  She  was  afraid  to 
think  lest  she  lose  this  new  ecstasy.  She  felt  that  she  stood  on  a  high 
place,  with  all  the  world  lying  below  her.  The  sun  shone,  and  the 
earth  was  exquisitely  divided  into  seas  and  lakes,  forests  and  fields. 
She  was  about  to  comprehend  all  things;  she  lay  breathless  beside 
her  sister,  trying  to  preserve  this  new  thing  for  the  future.  Her  head 
was  cleared  of  all  doubt  and  fear,  and  she  felt  herself  to  be  everlast- 
ing and  infinite.  Remembering  Juliette  who  was  garden  without 
flowers,  body  without  beauty,  the  sensation  of  discovery  disappeared: 
a  miracle  had  just  escaped  fulfillment. 

Juliette  with  wings  on  her  head,  Dad  who  was  sorry,  she  knew  not 
for  what,  Mother  who  comforted  her  body  with  her  hands,  shifting 
her  gown  as  she  walked  and  breathing  a  fierceness  into  the  air.  Vin- 


THE  HILL  191 

nie  who  was  filigree,  Harrit  who  was  fire  and  lay  like  a  prayer  be- 
side her. 

So  Vinnie  considered  them,  drawing  them  closely  together,  pull- 
ing the  threads  of  her  mind  tight,  as  one  draws  the  shirring  string 
in  a  bag  or  a  chemise. 

What  do  they  mean,  these  people?  asked  Vinnie  of  herself.  Juliette 
who  is  barren,  Mother  and  Dad  who  lie  apart  at  night,  Harrit  and 
Vinnie  who  are  filled  with  anticipation  of  the  future?  What  does  it 
mean  that  I  should  lie  this  way  beside  my  sister?  she  asked.  What 
does  it  mean  that  so  beautiful  a  person  should  be  my  sister,  that 
we  should  be  born  of  the  same  parents?  Seeing  herself  blessed  be- 
yond all  other  men,  in  having  a  sister  who  was  life  and  prayer 
and  child  of  the  earth,  Vinnie  turned  to  Harrit,  whose  hands  had 
used  Vinnie's  back  for  a  muff,  and  whispered,  "What  does  it  mean 
that  we  should  be  different  from  Juliette?  What  is  it  that  makes  us 
beautiful?" 

Ill:    FIRE  AND  FILIGREE 

A  flock  of  pigeons,  flying  high,  looked  like  scraps  of  paper  as  their 
wings  caught  the  light  and  lost  it,  and  as  they  dropped  slowly  to 
the  earth  it  was  as  though  the  sun  had  burned  them,  for  without  the 
sunlight  white  upon  their  wings  they  became  dark  spots  and  settled 
down  carelessly  among  the  trees  like  charred  paper.  The  rabbit, 
lying  asleep  in  the  curve  of  Vinnie's  back,  waked  suddenly  and  for- 
sook his  shallow  cradle  for  her  arm,  but  she  gave  no  ounce  of  her 
attention  to  him,  although  she  stroked  his  ears  and  laid  her  nose 
into  his  fur.  She  was  oblivious  of  herself;  she  had  forgotten  the 
rabbit  and  Marie  and  Joie  and  his  child's  grief.  A  late-singing  mourn- 
ing dove  linked  her  even  more  closely  with  the  day  before  yesterday. 
The  eerie  sound  was  like  a  ghost  making  music  upon  a  reed. 

They  had  lain,  she  and  Harrit,  for  some  time,  silent,  unmoving. 
Remembering  now,  it  seemed  strange  that  she  should  have  had  no 
premonition.  She  had  been  thinking  of  Juliette  and  the  way  her 
hands  lay  upon  her  lap,  and  while  she  thought  of  how  her  family 
slept  in  their  beds,  and  how  her  parents  slept  apart  at  night,  Harrit 
had  been  waiting  to  talk  to  her. 

"Don't  let  it  come.  I  don't  want  it  to  come.  Don't  let  it,  Vinnie, 
please." 

A  hurricane  of  emotion  beat  in  upon  Vinnie  as  she  began  to 
comprehend  her  sister's  meaning.  She  was  unable  to  evade  its  force 


192  ELEANOR  GREEN 

and  lay  weak  beside  Harrit,  waiting  for  her  to  continue.  Neither  of 
them  betrayed  the  feeling  within  her.  They  lay  motionless,  as  self- 
contained  as  Spartan  women,  as  fair  as  Helen. 

"It  will  be  born  in  February." 

Yinnie,  standing  on  the  brink  of  tragedy,  lost  her  foothold  and 
fell  leaden,  the  breath  beaten  out  of  her  by  Harrit's  words,  her 
winged  protection  of  reason  proving  worthless.  She  was  sucked  deep 
into  sorrow.  Pregnant,  pregnant;  my  sister;  pregnant.  The  words 
filled  her  mouth  and  her  ears,  and  her  eyes  smarted  with  them  and 
she  breathed  them  down  into  her  lungs.  Pregnant.  My  Harrit.  Har- 
rit! O  God,  no.  Not  Harrit.  Me,  rather.  Make  it  me. 

"Are  you  sure?" 

"I  have  been  to  the  doctor." 

"But  is  there  nothing  you  can  do?" 

"I  waited  too  long." 

"What  did  George  say?" 

"He  doesn't  know." 

"But  Harrit,  you  must  tell  him.  You  must  tell  him  at  once  and 
get  married." 

"Marry  him?  But  I  don't  love  him!" 

"You  don't  love  him?  But  how  could  you Oh,  Harrit!" 

"Vinnie,  you  don't  know  anything  about  that  sort  of  thing.  You 
don't  know  what  it  is  to  be  persuaded  by  a  man's  body.  You  may 
have  wanted  Peter;  I  am  sure  you  have,  but  not  because  he  was  a 
man.  You  wanted  him  because  he  was  Peter." 

It  is  easy  for  me  to  be  good,  Vinnie  said  to  herself,  because  I  am 
never  tempted. 

"Do  you  think  I  am  awful,  Vinnie?" 

Awful?  Harrit  awful?  How  can  I  tell  her  what  I  think?  How  can 
I  tell  her  how  admirable  she  is? 

Harrit  turned  suddenly,  and  Vinnie,  holding  her  in  her  arms, 
comforted  her.  They  clung  together,  Vinnie's  lips  covering  Harrit's 
hair  with  kisses,  and  Harrit's  tears  hot  against  Vinnie's  skin. 

The  body  lost  its  identity;  it  was  not  Vinnie  and  Harrit  who  clung 
together,  washing  each  other  with  their  tears,  their  bodies  inter- 
twined like  the  roots  of  trees,  their  hair  lying  in  a  careless,  two- 
colored  pattern.  It  was  not  Harrit  who  was  fire  and  Vinnie  who  was 
filigree.  It  was  a  pregnant  woman,  frightened  and  sorry,  and  another 
woman  who  was  kind. 

A  seagull,  far  inland,  cut  into  the  light.  Its  pointed  wings,  opening 
and  closing  with  miraculous  precision,  were  like  the  blades  of  a 


THE  HILL  L93 

knife.  Vinnie  watched,  hypnotized  by  its  beauty,  but  her  mind's  at- 
tention was  in  memory. 

"Tell  me  about  it,"  she  said  to  Harrit  after  a  little,  and  Harrit, 
her  face  in  the  pillow,  whispered  with  Vinnie. 

She  told  how  he  praised  her,  her  body,  the  touch  of  her  hand. 
How  he  smoked  in  the  firelight,  his  eyes  half-closed,  his  toe  tapping 
the  floor.  How  he  stood  behind  her,  whistling,  and  laid  his  hands  on 
her  throat,  slipped  his  hand  into  her  dress.  She  remembered  the  little 
fires  in  her  belly,  the  sweat  on  her  hands.  She  remembered  her  back. 
She  whispered  it  all  to  Vinnie,  shaking.  And  laughing  a  little.  She 
had  laughed  that  night. 

Harrit  had  laughed  and  leaned  back  against  the  wall.  When  she 
moved  her  head  the  rough  surface  of  the  stone  caught  at  her  hair. 
It  was  late  in  May,  but  they  welcomed  the  fire  on  the  hearth,  for 
the  stone  hut  was  still  damp  and  the  earth  about  it  cold  from  the 
winter.  In  the  woods  owls  called  out,  and  occasional  birds,  wakened 
by  a  twig's  falling  or  by  the  electric  shock  of  a  shooting  star,  sang 
out  in  ecstasy  or  fear.  A  single  candle  set  on  a  shelf  of  stone  that 
jutted  out  from  the  wall  burned  slowly,  the  wax  enlarging  upon 
itself  and  joining  the  candle  and  the  wall.  Other  than  that  there  was 
no  light  except  that  of  the  fire  that  blazed,  fell  back  and  blazed  again, 
like  lust.  In  their  laps  they  held  wooden  plates,  carved  thin  and 
polished  to  a  rare  finish.  About  the  rims  words  were  carven:  "Forgive 
us  our  trespasses."  The  words  encircled  Harrit's  plate  in  a  cylindrical 
prayer. 

Vinnie  knew  the  hut  to  which  they  had  gone.  She  and  Harrit, 
walking  in  the  autumn,  had  come  upon  it,  and  had  met  George. 
Knowing  the  place,  and  understanding  her  sister,  it  was  not  difficult 
for  Vinnie  to  reconstruct  the  evening.  Harrit  spoke  little.  Between 
her  sporadic  words  breathless  pauses  allowed  Vinnie  to  imagine 
what  had  happened  between  that  moment  and  the  next  of  which 
Harrit  would  speak.  It  was  evident  that  Harrit  was  recalling  it  all, 
step  by  step.  Vinnie  chose  to  accompany  her;  and  if  in  her  imagina- 
tion she  occasionally  side-stepped,  if  she  walked  through  mire  where 
Harrit  trod  upon  dry  ground,  or  if  she  mistook  a  weed  for  a  flower, 
a  cloud  for  an  ominous  shadow,  it  must  be  forgiven.  The  paths  of 
the  imagination  are  more  varied  and  more  illusive  than  the  cryptic 
paths  of  dreams,  and  filigree  and  fire  are  not  molded  in  twin  cru- 
cibles. Whatever  the  design  of  their  travel,  they  arrived  together, 
having  seen  the  same  landmarks,  having  smelled  the  same  fragrance, 
now  sweet  and  again  pungent.  Had  a  psychologist  been  able  to  look 


194  ELEANOR  GREEN 

simultaneously  into  their  minds,  had  he  been  able  to  cut  into  their 
lives,  as  Vinnie  had  done,  lying  face  down  upon  a  rock,  the  rabbit 
asleep  in  the  crook  of  her  arm,  he  would  have  been  astonished  at 
the  likeness  of  their  thoughts.  But  being  a  psychologist  he  might  not 
have  known  what  sweetness  and  understanding  do  sometimes  exist 
between  sisters.  It  was  not  sagacity  on  Vinnie's  part.  It  was  nothing 
more  nor  less  than  devotion  which  allowed  her  to  move  and  feel 
oblivious  of  herself.  So,  as  they  lay  childlike  in  the  bed,  Vinnie  re- 
built all  that  had  taken  place,  and  with  occasional  hints  from  Harrit 
learned  how  it  had  happened. 

The  night  pressed  down  around  the  hut  like  snow  falling,  quiet 
and  heavy,  and  the  wind  fretting  about  like  a  nervous  woman  sent 
the  smoke  down  the  chimney.  The  air  in  the  room  was  laden  with 
the  smell  of  it,  and  their  eyes,  smarting  with  it,  were  bright  and 
red,  like  the  eyes  of  lovers. 

"His  eyes  were  so  bright,"  Harrit  said.  "And  I  didn't  want  that." 
And  George,  beholding  in  her  the  likeness  to  that  strange  forerunner 
of  passion,  thought:  My  God,  she  wants  it  too. 

So  quick  are  lovers  to  misunderstand,  thought  Vinnie. 

He  threw  more  wood  onto  the  fire,  and  the  flames,  jumping  out 
from  the  logs,  made  a  crown  of  fire  about  his  head  as  he  knelt  at  the 
hearth.  His  mind  matched  the  fiery  crown.  It  licked  out  at  things, 
and  quickly  satisfied,  retreated,  leaving  only  ashes  to  show  where  it 
had  been.  Like  fire  it  never  retraced  itself,  but  waited  until  a  new 
growth  had  sprung  up  to  offer  a  more  hearty  meal.  The  fire,  burn- 
ing bright  and  swift,  lighted  Harrit's  face  and  cast  it  in  shadow,  so 
that  without  changing  the  expression  of  her  features  she  appeared 
now  to  smile  and  again  to  fall  into  a  sort  of  elegiac  reverie.  Her  eyes 
were  shut  not  only  to  the  smoke  but  to  this  man  who  vexed  her  mind 
and  excited  her  body.  When  he  moved  across  the  room  to  bolt  the 
door  it  was  as  though  some  anodyne  had  relieved  a  great  pain,  for 
his  presence  near  her  was  a  weight,  and  she  found  it  difficult  to 
breathe. 

He  stood  watching  her,  filling  his  pipe  slowly  and  carefully.  She 
leaned  back  with  her  eyes  shut,  her  hair  following  the  cracks  be- 
tween the  stones.  She  seemed  not  to  breathe.  Wave  upon  wave  of 
beauty  broke  about  her;  it  was  as  though  she  were  a  rock  in  the 
sea,  upon  which  the  little  birds  would  stop  to  rest,  and  over  which 
the  water  would  glide,  reverent  and  still.  About  her  feet  bright  fishes 
would  tangle  the  threads  of  their  color,  their  soft  tails  waving  like 
chiffon  scarfs,  their  sharp  noses  encircled  with  wreaths  of  minute 
bubbles.  Seaweed  would  grow  about  her  ankles  in  green  lace  panta- 


THE  HILL  195 

loons,  and  upon  her  breast  the  sea  would  weep.  Hearing  the  sound 
at  night,  sailors  would  wonder.  When  the  wind,  in  a  fury  of  jealousy, 
beat  at  the  sea,  she  would  stand  adamant,  betraying  in  no  smallest 
way  her  inner  torture. 

If,  indeed,  such  there  were.  George  was  unable  to  decide. 

He  moved  back  across  the  room  to  Harrit.  She  might  have  been 
a  deaf-mute,  and  blind  besides,  for  she  showed  no  sign  of  knowing 
he  had  come.  He  was  unaware  that  his  moving  towards  her  held  her 
as  in  a  vise. 

Once  I  loved  a  man,  she  said  to  herself.  Once  I  loved  a  man,  but 
it  wasn't  like  this.  I  didn't  wait  for  him  to  have  done  with  his  words. 
Whatever  he  said  I  listened  to,  and  he  spoke  of  curious  things.  Of 
mathematics  and  women.  And  he  spoke  of  music.  If  he  had  talked 
of  microbes  and  hunting  I  might  have  liked  it  better,  because  then 
I  could  have  talked  with  him.  As  it  was,  I  only  listened.  But  I  never 
sat  with  my  eyes  shut,  no  matter  how  much  they  burned.  What  is 
it  this  man  is  talking  about?  Heredity?  Environment?  But  I'm  not 
going  to  marry  him;  I  don't  want  children.  Once  I  loved  a  man,  but 
it  wasn't  like  this. 

A  wide  desert  lay  between  them.  They  walked  forever  towards 
each  other  and  never  met.  Once,  possibly,  in  their  whole  existence, 
the  sun  and  the  moon  would  be  at  such  a  point  in  the  heavens  as  to 
cast  two  shadows  from  one  to  the  other.  And  so  in  their  own  shadows 
they  would  meet,  and  shadow  being  like  shadow  in  substance,  they 
would  mistake  the  shadow  for  the  reality  and  exchange  some  inti- 
mate folly.  But  when  the  sun  sank  deeper  into  the  night  and  the 
moon  rose  higher  into  the  sky,  the  shadows  would  retreat,  like  tidal 
waters  from  the  shore,  and  by  the  time  the  zenith  had  been  reached 
they  would  again  be  two  creatures  separated  by  a  wide  desert,  an 
illusory  oasis  marking  the  spot  where  they  had  met. 

"He  told  me  of  something  that  happened  in  New  York,"  said 
Harrit.  "He  was  standing  in  the  window,  and  he  saw  two  men  and  a 
woman  supported  between  them.  He  thought  she  was  ill.  She  was 
very  handsome  and  well  dressed.  The  janitor  of  the  building  across 
the  street  was  sweeping  the  sidewalk;  his  shirt  hung  out  over  his 
trousers,  and  he  had  long  hair.  He  wore  a  large  black  hat;  he  was 
colored.  George  said  he  was  pretty  terrible-looking.  The  men  turned 
in  at  the  house.  The  woman  regained  consciousness  just  in  time  to 
see  this  ominous-looking  negro.  George  could  only  see  her  back,  but 
he  said  that  never  in  his  life  had  he  seen  the  terror  that  the  woman 
betrayed.  One  of  the  men  got  behind  her  and  shoved  her  in,  like  a 
cow  into  the  slaughter  pen." 


i96  ELEANOR  GREEN 

This  is  what  the  hundred  generations  of  humanity  have  won  for 
us.  thought  Vinnie.  To  such  heights  have  we  ascended.  Christ  and 
the  Virgin  Mary  have  lost  their  meaning.  They  are  no  longer  sym- 
bols of  the  spirit  and  of  the  flesh.  They  have  no  denominator  in 
common  with  the  human  mind. 

"What  did  he  do?"  asked  Vinnie. 

When  Harrit  answered,  her  voice  sounded  as  though  she  had  spent 
the  night  in  a  grave.  "Nothing,"  she  whispered. 

George,  watching  Harrit  as  he  talked,  had  seen  her  eyes  open  wide 
and  tears  gather  in  them.  The  tears  rolled  slowly  down  her  cheeks, 
and  reflecting  the  light  of  the  fire  they  were  like  drops  of  blood. 
What  kind  of  woman  is  this?  he  said.  I  talk  to  her  all  evening  of 
marriage,  of  our  life  together,  and  all  evening  she  sits  with  her  eyes 
closed,  still  as  death.  She  sits  without  saying  a  word,  like  a  deaf-mute, 
or  someone  stricken  with  sudden  and  utter  sorrow.  And  when  I 
speak  half  in  jest  of  something  I  saw,  she  opens  her  eyes  and  weeps. 
What  kind  of  woman  is  this  that  sits  by  my  fire  and  refuses  to  answer 
me?  What  does  she  think?  What  does  she  feel?  What  is  it  like  to 
weep?  And  he  fell  to  speculating  about  the  mysteries  of  her  body, 
wagering  with  himself  that  she  was  thus,  or  so.  He  could  not  know 
that  she  wept  for  him. 

Harrit  cried  into  her  hands.  How  can  he  sit  there  and  tell  me 
about  it?  Doesn't  he  know  how  I  hate  him?  He  tells  me  he  did 
nothing,  and  expects  me  to  love  him.  Why  don't  I  go?  Why  don't  I 
tell  him  I  hate  him  and  go?  Oh,  because  he's  going  away.  For  two 
years  he'll  be  gone  and  I  won't  have  to  see  him  at  all.  I  won't  have 
to  think  of  him.  I'm  here  tonight  because  tomorrow  he's  going 
away.  Anything  can  happen  in  two  years.  God,  how  I  hate  him! 
What  if  I  had  been  that  woman?  What  if  he  had  stood  there  watch- 
ing me  be  shoved  into  the  doorway,  and  done  nothing  about  it? 
God,  God  how  I  hate  him! 

"Tell  me,  Harrit,  were  you  ever  in  love?"  George's  voice  rapped 
like  a  fine  hammer  upon  her  hate. 

Once  I  loved  a  man,  but  it  wasn't  like  this.  The  words  crowded 
into  her  mind.  No,  that's  not  what  you  say  when  someone  who  loves 
you  is  going  away.  Once  I  loved  a  man.  But  it  isn't  true.  I  still  love 
him.  You  don't  stop  loving  people  when  they  die.  It's  as  though 
they  were  spending  a  month  in  the  country,  a  long  month,  where 
there  is  no  mail  service,  and  no  telephone.  Once  I  loved  a  man,  but 
God,  it  wasn't  like  this! 


THE  HILL  197 

She  raised  her  head  and  turned  her  face  to  the  fire. 

She  was  unutterably  weary.  No  exercise  tires  the  body  with  a 
rapidity  comparable  to  the  speed  of  hate.  Like  a  leech  it  sucks 
vitality  from  the  mind,  and  although  in  a  spurt  of  anger  the  body 
may  acquire  incredible  strength,  the  fury  ended,  the  body  is  weak 
and  as  feeble  as  that  of  an  old  man.  She  had  no  respect  whatever, 
and  certainly  no  love,  for  this  man  who  saw  a  woman  forced  into 
slavery,  and  did  nothing  about  it.  What  good  would  a  man  like 
George  be  in  time  of  crisis?  What  support  in  childbirth,  what  com- 
fort in  death?  A  man,  however  wise,  needs  great  compassion. 

What  would  it  be  like  to  live  with  him?  Every  day  and  every  day 
he  would  be  patient  and  kind,  and  every  day  he  would  continue, 
argumentatively,  his  pursuit  of  peace  of  mind.  He  would  allow  me 
no  tears,  no  change  of  mood.  He  would  even  smile  sparingly  to  save 
his  energy  for  more  important  things.  He  would  walk  around  my 
mind  as  though  it  were  a  curio  under  glass.  No,  I  could  never  live 
with  him,  thought  Harrit. 

A  young  owl  screeched.  It  sounded  like  a  baby,  and  Harrit  caught 
her  breath.  George  watched  her.  Her  eyes  were  suddenly  alive,  her 
whole  body  listening.  She  was  no  deaf-mute  now.  Every  sense  of  her 
being  was  awakened  and  waiting.  Fear  makes  any  body  strangely 
articulate,  but  with  natural  beauty  like  Harrit's,  it  can  transform  a 
person  into  a  symbol,  and  Harrit  became  a  cornered  animal,  sure 
prey  to  the  pursuer.  She  was  a  bird  poised  for  flight,  but  four  stone 
walls  and  a  roof  surrounded  her.  She  was  a  fish  encircled  with  speed, 
but  a  mesh  of  net  ensnared  her.  To  George  she  was  a  woman  of  sur- 
passing beauty  with  a  body  as  fine  as  silk  and  as  stern  as  steel.  What 
would  it  be  like  to  love  her?  What  if  she  wept?  My  God,  how  I 
want  her! 

His  passion  was  fanned  to  a  great  flame  by  the  breeze  of  his  imagi- 
nation. He  was  eager  to  know  her  body  with  his  hands  in  the  way 
that  a  hungry  man  longs  to  possess  the  food  behind  the  glass.  One 
can  break  the  glass.  One  can  risk  it.  Better  to  wait. 

The  owl  screeched  again,  and  Harrit,  the  shadows  hanging  from 
her  in  tatters,  ran  to  the  door.  George  was  quick  to  follow. 

"It's  a  child,"  she  said,  her  eyes  in  the  half-light  gleaming  like  the 
eyes  of  a  coyote.  George  stood  laughing  at  her,  his  back  against  the 
door. 

"Silly  girl.  Don't  you  know  that's  an  owl?" 

She  moved  from  him,  her  body  aching  with  his  nearness.  She  sat 
once  again  by  the  fire. 


198  ELEANOR  GREEN 

"Open  the  window,"  she  said. 

"Never.  You  might  fly  out.  You  might  really,  you  know.  For  all  I 
know  you  may  be  a  vampire." 

"Please  open  it,"  she  said.  It  seemed  to  her  that  she  would  die  if 
no  breath  stirred  in  the  room.  The  room  grew  small  around  her. 
Storm  clouds  came  up  from  every  corner  of  the  sky,  a  round  range 
of  mountains  grew  and  grew  together.  When  they  met  above  her 
there  would  be  complete  darkness;  no  air  would  stir.  The  room 
came  closer  and  closer  about  her. 

"Please  open  it,"  she  said  again.  She  was  suffocating  with  fear.  "I 
can't  breathe,"  she  said.  The  pulse  of  her  blood  was  like  hammers 
in  her  ears,  her  whole  body  moved  as  her  heart  beat.  George  stood 
in  the  dark  watching  her.  Prey  and  pursuer,  bird  and  four  walls  and 
a  roof.  The  owl  screeched  close  by  the  hut.  "George,"  she  said,  cover- 
ing her  ears  with  her  hands,  "I  can't  stand  that  noise!"  Let  me  out 
of  here,  she  said  to  herself.  Let  me  out.  I  can't  breathe.  Oh,  please 
let  me  out!  Let  me  out! 

To  hold  off  the  inquisitional  walls  she  thrust  out  her  arms. 

She  wants  me,  thought  George,  and  he  moved  slowly  towards  her. 
As  he  touched  her  she  withered  in  his  arms,  like  a  frail  flower.  He 
mistook  her  despair  for  consent. 

So  quick  are  lovers  to  misunderstand,  said  Vinnie  to  herself  again. 
She  withdrew  her  memory  and  her  imagination.  The  moment  at 
which  the  sun  and  the  moon  would  cast  two  shadows,  one  to  the 
other,  had  come,  and  shadow  being  like  shadow  in  substance,  each 
mistook  the  shadow  of  the  other  for  reality,  and  exchanged  folly. 

A  single  cloud  sailed  lazily  over.  From  the  valley  a  man's  voice, 
calling  the  cows  home  for  the  night,  rose  like  a  spire.  The  wind 
ruffled  the  water  of  the  creek,  and  the  path  of  sunlight  shining  upon 
it  was  broken  up  into  bright  pennies  of  light.  The  rabbit  lay  asleep 
in  Vinnie's  arm,  and  the  late-afternoon  air  was  pure  and  transparent, 
like  the  skin  of  little  children. 

IV:    THE  BURROWS  OF  GRIEF 

And  then  there  is  Mother,  thought  Vinnie.  The  man  in  the  valley 
who  was  calling  the  cows  home  for  the  night  began  to  whistle.  It 
was  a  mournful  tune,  a  sort  of  doleful  pleasure,  like  charity.  There 
is  Mother,  she  said,  and  examined  her  own  knowledge  of  her  so  that 


THE  HILL  199 

she  might  behold  its  structure.  There  is  something  malignant  in  each 
man's  life,  thought  Vinnie.  But  she  herself  seemed  immune. 

As  she  recalled  that  she  had  discovered  her  mother's  tragedy  on 
the  same  day  that  she  had  wept  with  Harrit,  it  appeared  to  her  that 
there  was  a  special  omen  attending  that  day;  this  whole  reunion.  So 
far  it  had  been  a  series  of  discoveries.  Every  morning  she  wakened 
half-frightened  by  what  the  day  might  reveal,  half-thrilled  by  the 
anticipation  of  it.  She  was  like  an  artist  whose  work  is  about  to  be 
brought  before  the  public;  an  artist  who,  beset  with  dread  and 
ecstasy,  wishes  he  might  sleep  for  a  year,  but  would  not,  if  some  kind 
fairy  were  to  offer  it,  accept  a  potion  that  would  make  him  drowsy 
for  an  hour.  Waking,  Vinnie  would  close  her  eyes  quickly  to  coax 
herself  back  into  oblivion,  but  with  her  eyes  shut  her  senses  would 
be  filed  to  a  keen  edge,  like  the  teeth  of  a  saw.  One  day  she  had  dis- 
covered Harrit  and  her  mother.  Another  had  offered  only  the  sunlight 
shining  in  a  cup  of  tea.  Another  day  their  being  bound  by  blood 
seemed  incredible.  So  it  had  gone,  but  it  had  started  with  Harrit 
and  her  mother. 

Harrit,  her  hair  spread  out  on  the  pillow  like  a  copper  fern,  fell 
asleep,  but  Vinnie  was  wide  awake,  unable  to  sleep.  They  were  two 
earthen  jugs,  one  full,  the  other  empty.  The  contents  of  the  full  jug 
had  been  poured  into  the  empty  one.  It  was  no  longer  Harrit's 
tragedy;  it  seemed  to  have  lent  itself  to  Vinnie,  to  her  body,  as 
though  the  fetus  had  been  transferred  from  the  one  woman  to  the 
other.  There  is  nothing  to  be  done,  Vinnie  said  to  herself.  Nothing 
to  be  done.  She  got  noiselessly  out  of  bed  and  dressed  hurriedly.  Her 
mind  ached  with  its  new  knowledge,— a  grab  bag  from  which  count- 
less ribbons  emerge.  Each  ribbon  of  thought  was  pulled  tight;  only 
the  slightest  increase  in  tension  and  the  bag  would  break. 

Vinnie  went  out  into  the  hall,  climbed  the  stairs  to  the  attic,  and 
in  the  corner,  behind  boxes  and  barrels,  and  cushioned  in  thought, 
she  settled  herself. 

While  Vinnie,  burrowing  in  her  grief,  hid  herself  in  the  attic,  her 
mother  lay  in  bed  waiting  for  the  clock  to  strike.  She  awoke  at  ten 
minutes  to  five  and  lay  there,  waiting  for  the  curtain  of  the  day  to 
be  lifted  with  the  five  strokes  of  the  clock.  When  they  had  struck 
she  would  get  up,  obeying  some  inner  summons.  She  would  turn 
down  the  covers  and  move  cautiously,  sliding  her  body  slowly  to  the 
edge  of  the  bed  so  that  she  would  not  waken  Henry,  who  slept  apolo- 
getically beside  her.  If  she  wakened  him  he  would  ask  what  she  was 


200  ELEANOR  GREEN 

doing  at  that  hour  of  the  day.  Not  that  she  would  have  told  him  in 
so  many  words.  She  couldn't  very  well  tell  her  husband,  at  five  in 
the  morning,  that  she  was  getting  ready  to  die.  Besides,  she  was  a 
woman  who  refrained  from  airing  her  intimacies,  and  dying,  to  Mrs. 
Morison,  was  a  most  intimate  affair.  More  so  than  being  born,  than 
riving  birth  herself. 

The  clock  struck  five,  and  Mrs.  Morison  fell  into  the  routine  of 
living.  The  movements  of  her  body  were  like  consonants  in  speech, 
and  like  the  consonants  had  some  natural  grace,  some  sense  of  beauty. 
Mr.  Morison  turned  over  on  his  side  of  the  bed  just  as  Mrs.  Morison 
got  out  on  her  side.  He  turned  over  with  a  magnificent  gesture, 
taking  possession  of  the  bed  finally,  triumphantly.  It  was  altogether 
admirable,  and  Mrs.  Morison  admired  fully  as  she  stood  looking 
down  at  him.  Standing  this  way  she  was  more  like  a  child  with  a  toy 
than  a  woman  near  fifty  who  was  up  at  five  getting  ready  to  die. 

The  years  of  her  life  hung  heavily  upon  her.  They  were  like 
delicate  veils,  one  hung  upon  the  other,  making  a  tapestry  of  infinite 
layers  and  varying  shades  of  color.  Standing  beside  the  bed,  looking 
down  at  her  husband,  Mrs.  Morison  began  lifting  the  veils  of  her 
life,  one  by  one.  Last  year  and  the  year  before,  and  the  year  before 
that,  and  before  that  and  before  that.  She  wondered,  as  she  stood 
there  in  the  bedroom,  what  made  a  life  go  on,  what  started  a  life  in 
the  first  place.  She  wondered  how  she  had  come  to  marry  Henry. 
She  lifted  the  veil  of  the  year  of  their  marriage.  The  brightness  of 
it  hurt  her  eyes,  the  beauty  of  life,  recalled  momentarily,  sucked  at 
her  heart  like  a  leech.  Drained  of  her  strength,  she  let  fall  the  veils 
of  her  thought,  and  she  set  her  mind  to  dressing,  and  combing  her 
hair. 

Up  in  the  attic,  hidden  behind  boxes,  Vinnie  could  not  know  what 
her  mother  was  doing.  She  was  not  concerned  with  thought  of  her; 
she  thought  only  of  Harrit,  of  her  firm  body;  of  her  integrity.  But 
as  she  sat  thinking  of  her  sister,  and  her  mother,  downstairs,  let  fall 
the  veils  of  her  mind,  they  were  joined  inevitably,  like  two  points  of 
land  by  the  water  that  lies  between  them,  by  Vinnie's  wondering 
what  her  mother  would  say  to  Harrit  when  she  learned  that  she  was 
pregnant.  She  must  be  very  kind  to  her,  Vinnie  said  aloud,  and  sud- 
denly started  to  weep,  fearing  the  cruelty  that  women  may  reveal 
when  confronted  with  the  delicacy  of  their  children's  love.  Mother 
and  daughter  joined  by  fear.  No  union  at  all,  thought  Vinnie,  and 
propped  up  behind  the  boxes,  she  fell  asleep. 

Downstairs  her  mother  walked  quietly  through  the  room,  through 
the  hall,  down  the  stairs.  Tiptoed  through  the  living  room  to  stand 


THE  HILL  201 

in  the  door  open  into  Juliette's  room.  Juliette  slept  religiously,  a 
sort  of  piety  invading  the  place  and  an  air  of  circumspection  hang 
ing  like  dew  from  the  objects  about  her.  As  on  other  mornings  Mrs. 
Morison  wondered  what  it  was  that  drew  her  to  this  sight  of  her 
husband's  sister,  what  it  was  that  made  the  room  so  definitely  vir- 
ginal. Perhaps  it  was  the  underclothes  folded  neatly  on  the  chair.  Or 
the  shoes  placed  exactly,  side  by  side.  Or  the  umbrella  hanging  on 
the  foot  of  the  bed.  Or  was  it  the  shades  drawn  down?  Or  the  sheet 
folded  back  over  the  blanket? 

Mrs.  Morison  asked  these  things  of  herself  every  morning.  It  was 
not  from  habit  that  she  questioned,  but  from  a  deep  and  very  real 
wonder  that  the  sight  aroused  in  her.  Every  morning  she  stood  there, 
asking  herself  what  it  was,  what  it  felt  like  to  be  Juliette.  She  went 
noiselessly  up  the  stairs  again,  past  Mr.  Morison  sleeping  trium- 
phantly on  the  bed,  past  the  closed  door  behind  which  Harrit  lay 
sleeping.  Poor  Juliette,  she  said  to  herself,  and  opened  the  door  that 
led  to  the  attic. 

As  the  smell  of  old  things  greeted  her,  Mrs.  Morison  ceased  won- 
dering, ceased  caring.  This  other  thing,  this  strange  and  greater 
thing,  filled  her.  She  was  thrilled  and  excited,  like  a  runner  at  the 
start  of  a  race.  She  closed  the  door  after  her,  and  very  quietly,  not 
to  avoid  disturbing  the  others,  but  to  keep  them  out  from  that 
world  of  excitement  which  she  found  each  morning  upon  opening 
the  attic  door.  As  she  climbed  the  stairs,  breathless,  her  excitement 
increased.  Coming  to  the  top  she  whispered,  with  a  gayety  that  would 
shame  the  whispers  of  lovers,  I'm  getting  ready  to  die.  She  surveyed 
her  world. 

Shelves  built  from  the  floor  to  the  ceiling  lined  the  north  end  of 
the  attic.  Cupboards  took  up  the  west  wall.  Against  the  east  one 
were  trunks  and  boxes,  weirdly  shaped  bundles,  countless  maga- 
zines. In  the  center  of  the  room  stood  a  long  table  with  scrapbooks, 
pencils,  labels  and  paper  clips.  Mrs.  Morison  summoned  the  attic 
together  as  she  sat  down  at  the  table.  It  was  no  longer  a  gabled  room 
with  shelves  and  cupboards,  boxes  and  barrels.  It  was  something 
important,  something  ordained;  it  was  the  paradise  of  a  woman 
lonely  in  the  midst  of  things. 

Letters.  Today  it  would  be  letters.  Monday,  with  one  week  of 
letters  before  me.  I  must  work  hard  and  rapidly,  to  get  on  to 
recipes  and  poems,  colored  silks  and  old  lace,  hats  and  white  cottons. 
Letters.  She  began  sorting  them  out. 

The  rhythm  of  laying  them  down,  of  picking  them  up  and  laying 
them  down,  of  reaching  and  placing,  placing  and  reaching,  swayed 


202  ELEANOR  GREEN 

her  body.  One,  two;  one,  two;  and  one  and  two  and  one  and  two  and. 
The  letters  rose  in  a  wall  around  her.  Mother,  Father,  Ida,  Jane.  A 
few  from  Harrit,  many  from  Vinnie.  She  sorted  them  out,  put  them 
in  order,  labeled  them.  There  were  letters  which  her  own  mother 
had  received,  letters  that  had  grown  yellow  and  brittle  with  age, 
and  crumbled  like  dry  leaves  when  her  fingers  touched  them.  The 
handwriting  on  them  was  so  fine  as  to  be  unbelievable;  it  was  like 
the  lines  of  etchings.  Mrs.  Morison  wrapped  the  letters  in  paper  and 
labeled  them,  printing  the  words  on  the  label  with  care,  loving  each 
line  that  she  made. 

Reaching  and  placing,  placing  and  reaching,  her  body  swayed 
with  the  rhythm.  Her  body  swayed,  and  the  years  of  her  life,  hanging 
in  layers  about  her,  took  the  same  tempo,  and  the  memories  of  a 
woman  with  a  body  fulfilled  and  living  complete  grew  taut  within 
her  mind,  and  she  was  like  an  instrument  well  tuned  and  surely 
strung.  Touching  now  this  letter  and  now  that  was  like  playing  first 
upon  one  string  and  then  another.  One,  two,  one,  two;  and  one  and 
two  and  one  and  two  and.  The  years  of  her  life  followed  the  beat  of 
the  metronome,  the  memories  marched  by  impersonally,  like  an 
army  or  a  herd  of  sheep.  One,  two,  one,  two;  and  one  and  two 
and  one  and 

"God,"  said  Mrs.  Morison. 

Vinnie  waked  suddenly.  The  room  pressed  down  about  her.  The 
windows  offered  no  breath  of  air,  the  shelves  and  cupboards  no 
surety.  The  table  became  a  maze,  the  stacks  of  letters,  with  their  old 
tales  told,  a  labyrinth.  What  is  she  doing  here?  she  thought.  What  is 
my  mother  doing  here? 

"God,"  said  Mrs.  Morison  again,  and  laid  her  head  down  on  the 
table. 

Vinnie  waited. 

After  some  time  her  mother  looked  at  the  letter  in  her  hand, 
looked  past  it,  out  over  the  trees,  out  to  the  hills.  She  was  afraid  to 
go  on,  knowing  that  she  would  be  sorry,  but  one  does  not  discover, 
twenty-odd  years  after  it  has  been  written,  a  letter  whose  seal  has 
never  been  broken,  and  leave  it  unread.  She  sat  in  the  attic  of  the 
house  in  which  she  had  borne  four  children  and  lost  two,  and  looked 
out  of  the  window,  holding  in  her  hands  the  letter  she  had  long 
awaited  when  she  was  twenty.  And  here  it  was  in  her  hands,  her  life 
lived,  her  body  fulfilled.  Here  in  her  hands  she  held  her  life,  as  she 
had  dreamed  it.  She  sat  in  the  attic,  her  memories  piled  carelessly 
about  her,  her  husband  lending  distinction  to  the  bed  by  the  way  in 
which  he  lay  full  upon  it,  his  arms  outstretched,  his  legs  straight. 


THE  HILL  203 

She,  Mary  Morison,  waiting  for  her  courage  to  return,  sat  in  the 
attic  above  him,  while  Vinnie,  her  daughter,  waited  for  the  room  to 
enlarge,  for  the  walls  to  fall  back,  the  ceiling  to  lift,  the  air  to  move 
about.  These  things  happened,  one  by  one,  and  Mrs.  Morison  read 
on.  She  read  slowly,  as  one  reads  a  foreign  language,  for  it  was  a 
tongue  strange  and  wonderful  to  her. 

Vinnie,  like  a  mole  in  the  darkness  of  his  burrow,  scuttled  about 
through  the  network  of  her  mind.  Her  mother  sat  before  her  reading 
a  letter,  and  as  she  read  the  tears  rolled  down  her  cheeks.  Her  grief 
was  inexhaustible.  This  woman  who  sat  before  her,  this  woman  who 
sat  in  the  midst  of  the  attic,  and  by  the  movements  of  her  body 
summoned  the  room  together,  making  something  important  of  it, 
something  ordained  and  beautiful,— this  woman  was  her  mother. 
Why  should  she  sit  here  in  the  attic  weeping?  What  is  there  that 
could  make  my  mother  weep?  Vinnie  was  besieged  with  a  great  curi- 
osity, and  then  at  once  was  smitten  with  a  sense  of  shame,  for,  for 
the  first  time  in  her  life,  she  thought  of  her  mother  as  a  woman  like 
herself,— a  woman  who  has  choices  to  make,  children  to  bear,  sorrows 
to  endure.  She  was  ashamed  that  she  had  never  thought  to  question 
her  mother's  happiness,  had  never  considered  her  as  anything  other 
than  a  woman  whose  most  distinguishing  experience  had  been  in 
bearing  her  children,  in  bearing  Vinnie  and  Harrit.  Up  one  burrow 
of  thought  and  down  another  she  ran,  digging  at  the  soil  about  her 
with  the  claws  of  her  anguish.  My  mother  who  sits  in  the  attic  and 
weeps.  My  mother  who  has  the  same  feelings  as  I.  It  was  as  though 
she  had  always  looked  upon  the  likeness  of  her  mother,  upon  her 
statue,  or  a  painting  of  her,  and  only  now,  for  the  first  time,  beheld 
the  living,  breathing  woman.  And  emerging  into  the  light  of  her 
mother's  experience,  Vinnie  was  blinded  by  the  brilliance  of  it,  and 
hidden  behind  the  boxes  and  barrels,  she  wept  silently,  and  through 
her  tears  beheld  a  strange  beauty  descend  upon  her  mother. 

That  beauty  mingled  with  her  hair,  like  so  many  jewels,  losing 
itself  and  becoming  a  part  of  her.  Her  mother  sat  like  a  statue,  and 
Vinnie's  comprehension  of  her  as  a  person,  instead  of  one  mainly,  if 
not  solely,  her  mother,  shed  its  light  upon  her  until  she  was  covered 
with  glory.  It  was  shed  over  her  whole  body,  even  to  her  hands.  They 
were  no  longer  old  hands.  They  had  bathed  babies,  they  had  nursed 
men  in  their  illness,  women  in  childbirth.  They  had  assisted  in  death. 
And  as  people  sometimes  defend  themselves,  or  others,  knowing 
they  are  in  the  wrong,  so  now  Vinnie  sought  to  persuade  herself  that 
her  mother's  life  had  been  full,  that  it  had  been  complete,  that  no 
more  could  be  asked  of  any  life  than  she  had  had  in  hers.  But  as  she 


204  ELEANOR  GREEN 

assured  herself  of  these  things,  the  voice  within  her  cried  out.  You 
are  lying,  it  said.  You  are  lying. 

Yes,  said  Vinnie,  I'm  lying.  She  understood  what  it  was  that 
sent  her  mother  bareheaded  into  the  rain,  what  it  was  that  made  her 
comfort  her  body  with  her  hands,  promising  it  respite,  and  shifting 
her  gown  as  she  walked  with  a  fierce  gesture. 

She  has  had  a  home  and  a  husband  and  children,  she  has  had 
enough  to  eat,  enough  to  keep  her  warm.  What  more  could  any 
woman  want?  What  more  is  there?  But  Vinnie  knew  that  there  was 
something  more  that  a  woman  could  have,  something  more  her 
mother  had  wanted.  She  did  not  give  it  a  name,  she  did  not  label  it 
as  her  mother  did  the  letters  about  her,  the  bits  of  silk,  the  scraps 
of  lace.  She  did  not  call  it  happiness,  nor  joy,  nor  peace.  But  it  was  all 
of  these,  and  something  more.  It  was  that  other  thing  that  gave 
meaning  to  life;  that  other  thing  was  illusive,  nameless,  but  it  gave 
joy  and  beauty  to  the  smallest  moment.  It  is  a  sort  of  enchantment, 
Vinnie  said  to  herself. 

Perhaps  she  loved  another,  thought  Vinnie,  and  if  so,  what  has  it 
been  for  her  to  live  with  my  father?  What  can  it  be  like  to  sleep 
with  a  man  in  whose  body  you  find  no  delight?  What  must  it  be  to 
eat  breakfast  every  day  for  twenty  years  with  a  man  who  holds  no 
pleasure  for  you,  whose  hands  confer  no  blessing?  What,  indeed, 
can  life  mean  with  no  magic  whatever  in  its  bosom? 

And  now  she  pitied  not  only  her  mother,  but  her  father  as  well, 
for  his  devotion  to  her  was  evident  in  the  gifts  he  brought  her— a 
blue  jay's  feather  that  he  found  in  the  path,  or  a  single  flower  with 
a  single  leaf.  What  is  it  that  life  does  to  people?  asked  Vinnie. 

Thought  of  those  years  of  her  mother's  conceiving  and  bearing, 
nursing  and  burying  her  children,  sheared  Vinnie  of  her  compre- 
hension of  existence.  She  saw  her  mother  as  a  quiet  woman  in  whose 
heart  no  ecstasy  could  flicker,  in  whose  mind  no  joy  could  ever  be. 
It  is  a  rare  world,  the  world  of  enchantment,  and  those  who  dwell 
there  are  particularly  blessed,  no  day  too  dreary  for  delight,  and  no 
delight  too  frail  for  great  enjoyment.  But  the  land  of  the  enchanted 
is  not  a  world  ruled  by  Bacchus  in  which  the  inhabitants  make 
merry  from  day's  end  to  day's  end.  It  is  a  land,  rather,  whose  in- 
habitants walk  now  over  roses  and  now  over  thorns.  Their  pleasure 
is  minute,  and  their  grief,  exquisite.  As  their  joy  may  be  in  gentle 
things,  so  also  may  their  sorrow.  So  it  happened  that  Vinnie  con- 
tributed to  her  mother  more  sorrow  than  actually  existed.  She  was 
not  tragic;  she  was  only  very  lonely. 

While  Vinnie  thought  of  her  mother,  her  mother  allowed  her 


THE  HILL  205 

mind  to  take  whatever  course  it  chose,  loosing  the  reins  with  which 
she  had  held  it,  with  which  she  had  guided  herself  to  this  forty-sixth 
year  of  her  life.  What  she  had  read  meant  little  now.  It  was  like- 
reading  a  book,  like  hearing  a  story.  She  did  not  identify  herself 
with  the  woman  to  whom  the  letter  was  written;  she  did  not  even 
remember  the  shape  of  the  hands  that  had  written  it.  But  she  realized 
that  if  she  had  read  this  letter  twenty  years  ago,  she  might  now 
possess  that  more-than-something;  she  might,  though  less  well  fed 
and  colder  at  night,  have  held  her  life  to  be  something  precious, 
instead  of  sitting  in  her  attic  preparing  for  death  as  a  bride  prepares 
for  her  marriage. 

But  where  has  it  been,  this  letter?  she  asked.  Between  two  letters 
that  had  belonged  to  her  mother  she  found  it.  That  meant 

Mary  folded  the  letter  and  laid  it  inside  her  dress.  Leave  the  weak 
unharmed,  leave  the  dead  buried.  When  a  hero  is  defamed,  leave  the 
laurel  wreath  upon  his  grave,  leave  the  song  sung.  But  I  loved  him, 
she  said  to  herself.  I  loved  him.  And  this  my  life,  fulfilled,  complete. 
Her  hands  moved  in  a  tired  gesture,  and  the  attic  lost  its  dignity  and 
became  a  gabled  room  cluttered  with  boxes  and  barrels,  magazines 
and  bundles. 

As  Vinnie  watched,  the  veils  of  her  mother's  life  separated  and  fell 
apart,  leaving  her  naked,  leaving  her  shorn  of  experience,  of  living, 
of  identity  with  any  man,  or  any  child,  or  any  dwelling.  The  jewels 
fell  away  from  her,  and  she  was  left  stripped  and  shivering. 

She  is  very  lonely,  thought  Vinnie,  and  wept  behind  the  barrels. 
Her  despair  for  her  mother  was  like  a  flurry  of  snow.  It  lashed  her 
cheeks  and  blinded  her  eyes  and  everything  that  she  beheld  became 
a  part  of  the  storm.  When  it  had  passed,  when  the  wind  of  despair 
no  longer  blew  against  her,  when  her  eyes  were  no  longer  blinded, 
her  mother  had  gone.  Only  a  wide  stillness  lay  over  everything,  as 
after  snow;  even  the  peaks  of  her  ecstasy  were  snowcapped,  and 
wisdom  bore  down  upon  her  in  a  glacier. 

V:    NO  ANODYNE 

"You  are  ridiculously  lovely,  Vinnie." 

Vinnie,  who  considered  herself  ridiculously  plain,  turned  to  her 
cousin,  but  seeing  his  eyes  upon  her,  turned  from  him  again,  pre- 
ferring to  ignore  his  adoration.  While  she  had  sat  on  the  hilltop, 
looking  down  into  the  minds  of  her  family,  Stewart  sat  below,  think- 
ing of  her,  his  thoughts  rising  with  extreme  delicacy  to  encircle  her. 

"Tell  me,"  she  said,  "why  you  came  up  here." 


206  ELEANOR  GREEN 

"To  talk  to  you.  To  ask  you  about  Uncle  John.  About  the  micro- 
scope, really;  he's  never  without  it.  It's  a  positive  mania  with  him." 

Vinnie  forgave  the  interruption  of  Stewart's  appearance.  Only  the 
catastrophe  of  John's  life  filled  her  mind.  She  wondered  what  she 
could  tell  Stewart.  It  would  not  be  easy  to  satisfy  his  curiosity.  One 
thing  she  knew  for  certain,  however.  She  would  not  tell  him  all  that 
she  knew.  She  would  not  lay  Uncle  John  open  to  his  scrutiny,  nor 
betray  his  trust  in  her.  Stewart  lay  back  in  the  grass,  watching  the 
rare,  elfin  beauty  of  Vinnie's  face  as  she  sorted  over  the  details  of 
John's  story,  choosing  carefully  the  words  she  would  use.  This  I  will 
tell  and  that  I  will  not.  This  is  betrayal,  but  that  is  not.  So  Vinnie 
combed  the  threads  that  had  spun  a  firm  cord  for  her  uncle's  heart. 
She  recalled  each  point  minutely,  from  the  beginning  of  his  revela- 
tion to  the  end  of  it.  It  had  begun  quite  simply. 

"Tell  me,  my  dear,"  he  said  to  her.  "Can  it  be  that  at  your  age  and 
with  such  gentle  hands,  you  are  not  in  love?" 

They  sat  together  in  the  garden,  hidden  from  sight  by  a  hedge  of 
little  trees.  The  other  members  of  the  family  were  resting:  Mrs. 
Morison  in  her  room  with  the  windows  wide  and  her  clothes  off,  a 
tall  pitcher  of  grape  juice  next  to  her  bed;  Stewart  in  his  room  with 
a  book  of  Spanish  painters  propped  up  before  him;  Marie  sleeping 
heavily,  and  Susan  soaking  her  feet;  the  children  in  the  back  yard, 
each  with  a  book  and  a  pillow,  and  Juliette  in  her  room  with  the 
curtains  drawn  and  a  black  stocking  laid  over  her  eyes.  Vinnie  forgot 
to  take  account  of  her  father,  but  he  was  in  the  workshop,  whittling 
beads  of  finest  wood  for  Mrs.  Morison's  birthday,  and  Harrit,  driven 
to  despair,  exercised  madly  in  her  room,  the  tears  streaking  her  lovely 
cheeks.  Vinnie,  going  out  into  the  afternoon  to  escape  the  sight  of 
Harrit's  face,  came  unexpectedly  upon  her  uncle  hidden  behind  the 
little  trees.  It  was  a  sanctuary  to  which  she  retreated  unnumbered 
times,  and  coming  now  to  it  and  finding  it  occupied  by  another,  she 
was  like  a  priest  without  a  sacristy,  a  hermit  without  a  cell.  She 
stopped  to  talk  to  him,  thinking  he  must  find  ants  through  a  micro- 
scope intolerably  dull. 

While  Mrs.  Morison  rested  with  her  eyes  open  and  a  glass  of  grape 
juice  in  her  hand;  while  Mr.  Morison  puttered  about  in  the  shop, 
devout  and  awkward;  while  Harrit,  fearful  of  bearing  a  child  whose 
father  she  did  not  love,  strove  to  dislodge  the  root  of  its  being  with 
heat  and  cold,  stretching  and  compressing;  while  Stewart  fled  from 
himself  to  the  gaunt  figures  of  El  Greco,— Vinnie  and  her  uncle, 
thoughtless  of  the  others,  discoursed  behind  the  hedge  of  little  trees. 


THE  HILL  207 

The  flowers,  like  fragile  fruit,  grew  close  about  them,  and  one  hum- 
mingbird, illusive  and  secure,  treaded  air  around  a  bush  of  ageratum. 
It  was  an  afternoon  sinister  in  its  silence.  The  quiet  lay  like  a  poul- 
tice, drawing  the  sliver  of  tragedy  to  a  fevered  head.  Vinnie,  as  she 
sat  looking  into  the  center  of  a  morning-glory,  wondered  what  anti- 
septic of  the  mind  she  could  apply.  When  the  sliver  is  out,  how  shall 
I  disinfect  the  wound?  Seeing  thunderheads  unroll  along  the  margin 
of  the  sky,  she  prayed  for  a  storm. 

"Tell  me,  my  dear.  Can  it  be  that  at  your  age  you  are  not  in 
love?" 

"But  who  said  I  wasn't  in  love,  Uncle?" 

"Nobody  said  you  were.  That  is  the  thing.  If  you  were  to  be  mar- 
ried, we  would  all  be  talking  about  it." 

"Can't  one  be  in  love  without  expecting  to  be  married?" 

"Oh.  Forgive  me." 

How  strange,  thought  Vinnie,  to  be  drawn  into  this  partial  con- 
fession. She  had  never  before  revealed  to  anyone  but  Harrit  her  love 
for  Peter,  and  finding  him  now  a  common  thought  between  her 
uncle  and  herself,  she  was  frightened  to  have  spoken  so  easily  of  him, 
and  delighted  with  her  uncle's  quick  perception.  "He  is  like  you, 
Uncle  John.  He,  also,  is  a  doctor." 

"Poor  devil."  If  he  had  been  comforting  a  child  he  could  not  have 
spoken  more  gently. 

"Don't  you  like  being  a  doctor?" 

"I  don't  like  being  responsible  for  so  many  lives." 

"No,  I  shouldn't  like  that,  either." 

The  body  and  its  infinite  detail,  with  its  immutable  miracle  of 
creation,  was  to  Vinnie  cause  for  everlasting  wonder.  The  study  of 
human  anatomy  delighted  her— the  application  of  science  to  the  shell 
of  the  spirit.  She  thought  first  of  the  beauty  of  the  body,  with  its 
unlimited  variations  and  its  intrinsic  poise.  A  group  of  people  sit- 
ting together  about  a  fire,  or  walking  heedless  of  one  another  down 
a  street,  were  to  her  like  a  Bach  chorale,  while  boys  playing  ball, 
catching  and  throwing,  throwing  and  catching,  were  like  men  an- 
tiphonally  singing.  Dancers  with  their  reedlike  grace;  athletes  with 
their  certain  feet  and  sinuous  thighs;  these  alone,  resolved  prismati- 
cally  by  beauty  into  a  spectrum  of  human  light  and  shade,  endeared 
the  body  to  Vinnie.  But  it  was  not  only  symmetry  of  form,  certainty 
of  rhythm,  clarity  of  meaning  that  she  thought  of.  The  spiritual 
thing  that  evolved  physical  perfection;  the  incomputable  variances 
of  spirit,  the  misshapen  bodies  and  the  deformed  minds  of  imbeciles, 
the  dearth  of  grace  in  the  lives  of  miners  and  all  impoverished 


2o8  ELEANOR  GREEN 

laborers;  these,  also,  she  thought  of.  Sitting  in  the  garden  it  was  to 
ugliness  and  disaster  that  she  turned  her  mind.  It  was  as  though  she 
knew  what  manner  of  revelation  her  uncle  would  make,  and  thought 
prelusorily  in  the  vein  of  catastrophe. 

"I  would  like  to  talk  to  you,  Vinnie,  if  you  have  time."  He  begged 
for  her  attention.  He  told  her  in  few  words  of  the  operation  which 
had  been  fatal  to  his  wife.  Vinnie  supplied  the  details,  remembering 
operations  she  had  witnessed.  Like  an  actor  who  identifies  his  part 
with  his  own  life,  Vinnie  imagined  one  patient  she  had  seen  to  be 
her  aunt,  and  one  surgeon,  her  uncle.  She  recalled  the  hospital  with 
its  aloof  air  and  its  impersonal  furniture;  the  rooms  with  their  deadly 
stillness,  and  the  sound  of  feet  muted  by  rubber  heels  and  constant 
tiptoeing;  the  currents  of  deftness  and  silent  motion;  the  breathless 
suspense  of  a  port  that  harbors  transient,  human  cargo;  the  relentless 
bearing  and  dying  of  humanity. 

Grace,  with  her  hair  tied  back  and  her  eyes  hard  in  fright,  being 
rolled  down  the  hall  noiselessly.  The  elevator  door,  with  its  rubber 
buttons,  closing  certainly  upon  her;  the  nurses  smiling  with  eyes 
that  had  wept  themselves  dry.  The  elevator  stopping,  the  noiseless 
wheels  rolling  in  minute  and  eternal  circles,  the  tension  of  the  mind 
when  faced  with  the  possibility  of  death.  The  torrent  of  emotion 
that  breaks  through  the  dam  of  reason;  the  utter  futility  of  all  living, 
untimely  death  in  the  balance. 

In  one  room  Grace,  a  woman  who  loved  life,  who  was  devoted  to 
her  husband,  waiting  for  the  moment  to  come  which  would  solve 
the  mystery  of  her  illness.  In  another  room  John,  her  husband,  his 
heart  torn  between  hope  and  fear,  standing  before  an  open  window, 
breathing  deeply  to  calm  his  nerves.  In  one  room  a  woman  praying 
that  she  might  not  die;  in  the  other  room  her  husband,  with  no 
prayers.  In  one  room  Grace,  remembering  their  early  and  exquisite 
love;  in  the  other  room  John,  remembering  another  woman.  Grace 
who  was  faithful,  John  who  was  not.  Man  and  woman.  Life  and 
death.  The  moment  was  at  hand. 

Careful  hands  assisted  her,  lifting  her  gently  onto  the  table.  Great 
lights,  their  glare  diffused,  filled  the  room  with  an  unearthly  bright- 
ness. Instruments  of  infinitesimal  variation  lay  spread  upon  a  table. 
Eyes  smiled  above  masks,  heads  bent  in  concentration.  The  room 
filled  with  silent  people  moving  meaningfully  about.  Then  John  and 
the  two  surgeons  who  would  perform  the  operation  coming  into  the 
room,  their  presence  charging  the  air  with  the  imminent  task,  their 
voices  strong  and  vibrant,  nerves  balanced,  their  hands  unbelievably 


THE  HILL  209 

beautiful  in  their  rubber  gloves.  Grace  smiling  up  at  John,  saying 
simply:  "I  love  you,  John."  The  room  coming  suddenly  to  life. 
Grace  willing  her  body,  in  a  last  flicker  of  consciousness,  to  the 
powers  of  love.  Then  the  rapid  breathing  and  the  hot  forehead;  the 
incision  clean  as  lightning;  skilled  hands  working  deftly.  Layer  of 
flesh,  layer  of  muscle;  veins,  arteries,  peritoneum,  and  finally  the 
malignant  secret  of  the  woman's  ill.  Sponges,  needles.  The  woman 
wrapped  in  blankets,  tucked  around  with  hot-water  bags,  wheeled 
away  down  silent  corridors,  visitors  in  the  hall  standing  silent  as  she 
passed,  wondering  what  it  felt  like.  The  woman  laid  into  bed,  the 
room  darkened  with  shades,  the  dull  tread  of  feet  going  on  unceas- 
ingly in  the  hall.  John  in  the  shower,  not  believing.  Downstairs  a 
woman  who  wouldn't  live  long;  upstairs  a  man  who  detested  his  life. 
Then  to  her  room  swiftly,  regret  for  the  past  putting  quicksilver  in 
his  shoes.  In  the  room  with  him  two  nurses  rubbed  the  woman's 
hands,  consulted  their  watches.  The  eyelids  pulled  back.  The  eye- 
balls revealed. 

John  walked  to  the  window. 

From  the  deep  wells  of  remorse  he  sought  to  pull  his  attention 
from  the  wide  future.  He  was  striving  to  bring  himself  up  with  the 
present.  Beyond  the  window  lay  the  hills  and  the  river.  Beyond 
them,  hills  and  more  hills,  rivers  and  more  rivers,  he  said  to  himself. 
And  they  last  and  are  infinite,  but  we  are  finite  and  perishable.  We 
are  fragile  and  delicate,  but  the  hills  are  everlasting.  But  what  has 
our  life  together  been?  It  is  a  joke,  because  I  loved  Leila.  It  is  a  lie, 
because  I  don't  love  Grace.  And  realizing  suddenly  that  soon  this 
woman  whom  he  once  had  cherished,  whose  body  had  yielded  him 
pleasure,  whose  mind  had  done  him  no  harm,  would  die,  he  discov- 
ered that  he  had  not  ceased  to  love  her. 

"John,"  she  said.  "John." 

Hills  and  more  hills.  Rivers  and  more  rivers.  They  last  and  are 
infinite.  And  the  soil  within  the  hill,  the  current  within  the  river, 
they  are  everlasting.  But  what  shall  become  of  our  life  together?  The 
fulfillment  of  our  bodies,  where  has  it  gone?  And  the  sense  of  reality 
and  the  sense  of  time,  wherever  again  shall  I  find  them?  In  the  hills 
and  more  hills.  In  the  rivers  and  more  rivers.  But  she  has  spoken 
to  me  and  I  have  not  answered.  She  will  die  before  I  can  speak.  Let 
me  speak,  let  me  go  to  her.  But  he  had  not  the  strength  to  turn. 

The  door  opened  and  closed,  and  dull  steps  went  softly  down  the 
hall.  "Yes,  darling,"  he  said,  and  exerting  every  atom  of  energy, 
turned  slowly  from  the  window.  But  the  cycle  of  her  existence  was 


210  ELEANOR  GREEN 

complete.  He  was  not  John,  surgeon  and  husband,  beholding  his 
dead  wife.  She  was  not  Grace,  whose  husband  gazed  upon  her.  They 
were  merged  in  death. 

"When  I  turned  she  was  dead." 

The  word  swelled  and  enlarged,  taking  added  meaning  as  it  grew. 
The  hummingbird  ceased  treading  air  and  sank  out  of  sight  into 
the  bushes.  It  seemed  that  the  whole  earth  would  be  covered  with 
the  sound  of  it,  that  it  would  lie  upon  the  earth  like  snow.  Vinnie 
held  the  morning-glory  in  her  teeth.  The  stem  was  soft  and  sweet. 
She  was  aware  of  the  roundness  of  it. 

"People  do  frightful  things,  don't  they,  Vinnie?" 

"Hideous." 

Her  uncle  turned  from  her  and,  removing  his  microscope  from  its 
case,  sought  the  stamen  of  a  heavy  flower.  Vinnie  watched  carefully 
as  he  bent  over  it.  He  was  a  moderate  man  in  height,  in  build,  in 
humor.  She  knew  vividly  what  Grace's  life  with  him  had  been.  Com- 
fort, boredom.  A  man  who  shaved  slowly,  who  read  the  paper  at 
breakfast,  returned  late  in  the  afternoon  to  dress  slowly  for  dinner, 
eat,  and  settle  himself  for  a  careful  perusal  of  his  medical  papers; 
or  spend  the  evening  making  his  calls.  At  eleven,  if  he  was  not  out 
on  a  case,  he  suggested  they  go  to  bed,  and  with  formality  they  did 
so,  he  lying  in  his  bed  comfortably,  glad  that  passion  no  longer  cut 
short  the  hours  of  sleep;  Grace  lying  in  hers,  lonely  in  that  way 
peculiar  to  women  who  love  their  lords  unreciprocally.  John  drop- 
ping swiftly  off  to  sleep,  Grace,  hearing  his  heavy  breathing,  steal- 
ing downstairs  to  sit  before  the  fire  which  they  had  left  dying  on  the 
hearth.  She  would  recall  their  first  passion  and  wonder  what  leech 
of  fate  sucked  the  vitality  from  people's  lives.  She  had  been  honest, 
she  had  been  kind,  she  knew  not  why  she  had  failed.  Superbly  loyal 
herself,  she  never  thought  to  question  John's  loyalty.  What  she  must 
have  felt,  thought  Vinnie,  as  she  lay  on  the  operating  table  saying 
simply,  I  love  you,  John.  How  she  must  have  rebelled  against  the 
hypnotic  powers  of  gas,  and  sought  to  retain  consciousness  long 
enough  to  hear  her  husband  say:  "I  love  you,  Grace."  But  John  was 
silent,  and  the  anesthetist  swift.  There  was  no  accounting  for  what 
people  might  do. 

"But  that  is  not  all,"  said  John. 

"No,"  said  Vinnie.  And  she  then  grew  suddenly  indignant  at  the 
endless  adolescence  of  her  family.  Their  lack  of  wisdom,  their  lack 
of  humor,  their  ignorance  of  integrity.  Their  lack  of  maturity,  with- 
out which  relationships  become  a  farce. 

"No,  that  is  not  all." 


THE  HILL  2ii 

"Tell  me  the  rest." 

"Afterwards  I  married  Leila.  I  didn't  love  her.  She  died.  It's 
strange,  Vinnie,  the  things  people  do.  I  thought  I  loved  Leila. 
Grace  died.  I  married  Leila,  but  not  because  I  loved  her.  You  can 
never  wholly  love  a  person  for  whom  you  have  committed  some  grave 
transgression.  It  is  a  strange  thing  that  integrity  is  more  important 
than  love.  People  do  frightful  things,  don't  they,  Vinnie?" 

"Everyone  does."  Her  words  were  unmeaning,  remote  for  him. 

In  the  house  Mrs.  Morison  lay  staring  up  at  the  ceiling.  Stewart 
nodded  over  his  El  Greco,  and  Marie  and  Susan  clipped  their  toe- 
nails. Juliette  stood  before  her  mirror  resenting  her  sparse  image, 
while  above  her,  sleeping  on  the  bed,  lay  Harrit,  exhausted  by  her 
very  fertility. 

"He  blames  himself  for  failing  Grace."  She  gave  her  attention  now 
to  the  valley,  to  Stewart  who  watched  her  with  devotion,  to  the  sky 
and  its  infinite  quiet.  She  looked  down  upon  the  heads  of  her  family. 
They  were  oblivious  of  her. 

VI:    AN  ENCHANTED  PLACE 

"There  is  an  island,"  said  Stewart,  "off  the  coast.  A  very  beautiful 
island,  but  a  secret  place.  I  never  tell  anyone  about  it  because  I 
want  to  keep  it  to  myself.  It's  like  a  girl— it  is  like  that  with  any  man 
—I  do  not  want  another  to  possess  her,  nor  even  to  see  her  beauty. 
I  cannot  talk  about  her  body,  nor  praise  her  hands.  To  love  her 
takes  all  my  strength.  I  cannot  even  tell  her  very  well  how  I  feel. 
She  must  know  it  by  my  eyes  or  my  voice.  Even  my  back  may  betray 
me.  And  this  island,  you  know,  is  very  beautiful;  I  would  like  you 
to  love  it.  I  should  like  to  share  it  with  you.  It  is  a  very  beautiful 
island." 

Vinnie  listened.  The  stillness  of  the  evening  had  descended  upon 
her.  "Tell  me  about  it,"  she  said. 

"There  are  about  a  hundred  miles  of  shore.  The  island  itself  is 
long  and  narrow.  It  is  connected  to  the  mainland  by  a  slender  bridge 
that  looks  like  the  skeleton  of  some  prehistoric  animal.  Nobody  lives 
there,  except  at  one  end  there's  a  little  town  built  up  of  driftwood 
and  pieces  of  tin.  The  inhabitants  make  their  living  by  fishing.  It  is  a 
very  strange  little  town.  There  are  lots  of  dogs,  but  they  are  all  very 
small,  and  they  do  a  great  deal  of  barking.  They  stay  among  the 
shanties  and  never  go  into  the  island.  And  there  are  lots  of  children, 
and  they're  nice  children.  They're  shy  when  you  come  upon  them. 


212  ELEANOR  GREEN 

The  water  is  warm  at  the  shore,  and  the  children  dig  holes  in  the 
sand  and  build  castles  of  sea  shells.  They're  very  dirty;  the  grown 
people  seem  to  be  a  race  of  their  own.  They  have  dark  skin  and  pale 
eyes  and  black  hair.  The  wind  dries  their  skin  and  blows  sand  into 
their  faces  and  they  are  old  before  they  are  thirty." 

Stewart  spoke  slowly.  He  looked  out  across  the  marsh  and  the 
meadows,  loving  each  thought,  caressing  each  memory.  He  was  silent 
for  a  little,  and  Vinnie  shut  her  eyes  to  keep  the  vision  of  the  island. 

"They  are  silent  people.  The  women  smoke  pipes  and  watch  the 
sea  gulls  for  hours  without  moving.  Once  I  sat  among  them  in  the 
evening,  and  they  were  so  still  I  thought  I  was  dreaming  and  that 
they  were  statues.  They  go  barefoot,  and  their  toes  are  long,  and  they 
pick  up  clams  with  their  feet.  When  a  storm  comes,  and  they  come 
quite  often,  they  all  flee  into  the  island  with  the  children  and  the 
dogs,  and  after  the  storm  is  past  they  go  back  to  the  place  where  the 
town  stood,  pick  up  the  driftwood  and  start  building  new  shanties." 

"And  the  rest  of  the  island?"  said  Vinnie. 

"The  rest  of  the  island  is  what  I  would  share  with  you.  It  is  noth- 
ing but  sand  dunes.  Great  hills  of  sand  that  is  as  white  as  snow.  One 
dune  dissolves  itself  in  another,  and  that  one  in  yet  another.  It  is  like 
the  waves  of  the  sea." 

It  is  like  people,  thought  Vinnie.  They  are  all  combinations  of 
other  people.  People  are  dissolved  in  one  another  as  the  dunes  are 
dissolved.  One  seldom  meets  a  person  complete  within  himself.  One 
dune  lends  beauty  to  another,  one  person  adds  beauty  to  the  next. 
And  still  one  does  not  love  a  mass.  One  loves  individually.  One  loves 
Stewart,  for  instance,  but  not  necessarily  the  people  who  have  made 
Stewart  what  he  is.  Or  one  loves  Peter.  Certainly  one  loves  Peter. 

And  there  is  not  long  to  wTait.  A  couple  of  hours  and  I  shall  see 
him.  And  she  began  to  wonder  what  it  was  about  Peter  that  she 
loved.  If  she  had  not  happened  to  love  him  she  would  have  taken 
little  notice  of  him. 

"Nothing  grows  but  one  creeping  vine,"  Stewart  was  saying  to  her. 
"It  has  blue  flowers,  like  a  morning-glory.  You  stand  at  the  top  of  a 
dune,  and  all  you  see  is  rolling  white  sand  and  blue  creeping  flowers 
growing  on  a  dark  stem,  and  sea  gulls  that  dip  down  almost  to  the 
earth  and  shoot  up  again.  It  is  very  still.  Only  the  birds  circling 
about  and  calling,  and  little  dogs  barking  in  the  distance.  You  can 
go  naked  in  the  sunlight,  and  it  is  warm  and  comforting,  and  you 
discover  that  you  are  quite  as  beautiful  as  the  island.  At  night  you 
roll  down  the  sandy  hills,  and  the  sand  gets  into  the  crevices  of  your 


THE  HILL  213 

body,  and  you  feel  very  clean.  And  then  you  bathe  in  the  cool  water 
and  run  along  the  beach  to  get  dry.  And  you  talk  quietly.  The  island 
is  the  most  exciting  place  I  know." 

"But  doesn't  anyone  else  know  about  it?" 

"Apparently  not.  Few  people  ever  go  there." 

"How  long  do  you  stay  when  you  go?" 

Stewart's  smile  was  like  a  window  thrown  open.  "As  long  as  I  like. 
There's  no  one  to  tell  me  to  go,  and  the  people  in  the  village  don't 
mind.  They  sell  me  fish  for  a  few  pennies  and  seem  to  have  no 
curiosity  at  all.  The  island  takes  care  of  you.  You  sleep  in  the  cradle 
of  a  dune.  You  eat  fish  that  swarm  the  place.  You  wash  in  the  sea. 
There  is  fresh  water  in  green  pools.  If  the  night  grows  cool,  you 
cover  yourself  with  sand,  and  in  the  morning  shake  yourself  free  of 
your  bed.  There  are  no  covers  to  straighten,  no  floors  to  sweep.  I 
took  my  paints  with  me  once  when  I  went  to  stay  for  a  month,  but 
everything  was  so  beautiful  that  I  couldn't  take  my  eyes  away  long 
enough  to  paint  what  I  saw." 

Tears  hung  in  Vinnie's  eyes.  Stewart  watched  her,  enchanted.  He 
knew  why  she  was  weeping.  For  that  alone  I  could  love  her,  he 
thought. 

Below  them  the  family  bubbled  about,  like  vegetables  in  a  kettle. 
Seated  on  their  rock,  Stewart  and  Vinnie  courted  silence.  It  is  good 
to  get  away  from  people,  Vinnie  was  thinking,  while  Stewart  said  to 
himself,  How  do  I  come  to  have  so  charming  a  cousin?  They  smiled 
at  each  other. 

"What  are  you  going  to  do  with  the  rabbit,  Vinnie?" 

"I'm  taking  it  home  to  Joie." 

"Marie  will  despise  you." 

"I  despise  Marie.  Of  course  I  don't,  really.  But  I'd  like  to.  But 
you  know,  she  has  such  big  feet,  and  she  walks  like  a  peasant,  so  I 
can't  despise  her,  because  I  like  peasants." 

"Vinnie,  you're  a  fool." 

The  notes  of  their  laughter,  like  links  in  a  chain,  were  welded 
together.  Their  laughter  hung  in  festoons  from  the  hill;  the  air 
sparkled  with  the  sound  of  it,  and  the  leaves  shook.  The  hill  became 
a  chandelier  of  sound.  The  whole  valley  was  covered  with  a  canopy 
of  joy.  Even  the  family,  who  had  seemed  so  insensitive,  looked  up  at 
their  rock.  Mr.  Morison  shaded  his  eyes  with  his  hand.  John  deserted 
his  microscope.  Marie  and  Susan  saluted  them  with  the  roasting 
forks,  and  Juliette  waved  her  umbrella.  The  children  scampered 
away  into  the  bushes. 


214  ELEANOR  GREEN 

"Those  vixens  are  coming  up  here,"  said  Stewart.  "Can't  we  hide?" 

"It  we  hurry."  And  while  the  children  raced  up  one  side  of  the 
hill,  Stewart  and  Vinnie  fled  along  the  ridge. 

They  came  suddenly  upon  a  deep  ravine.  Sheep  grazed  there,  lift- 
ing their  small  heads  quickly  as  they  heard  the  intruders,  and  then 
turning  their  attention  again  to  the  grass  that  grew  luxuriously  on 
either  side.  Shadows  possessed  the  place.  There  was  a  small  log  house 
whose  doors  and  windows  were  boarded  up.  The  roof  was  thatched, 
and  a  rain  barrel,  long  empty,  stood  beneath  a  broken  waterspout. 
Dead  apple  trees  surrounded  the  house,  and  their  exquisite  bare 
branches  twined  and  intertwined  like  the  words  of  lovers.  Save  for 
the  tinkling  of  the  sheep's  bell  there  was  no  sound.  Shadows  and 
silence  were  the  owners.  The  serenity  held  them  spellbound. 

They  sat  down  under  one  of  the  trees  and  leaned  back  against  a 
tombstone  that  was  covered  with  moss  and  creeping  vines.  "Is  the 
island  lovelier  than  this?"  asked  Vinnie. 

"This  is  an  enchanted  place,"  said  Stewart. 

The  sheep  moved  slowly  over  the  grass.  At  the  bottom  of  the 
ravine  a  little  stream  meandered  towards  the  valley.  In  the  cool 
bright  water  stood  a  crane,  one  leg  tucked  up  out  of  sight.  Flies,  like 
teasing  children,  dashed  at  the  water  and  retreated,  their  wings  mak- 
ing emerald  music.  It  seemed  as  though  no  human  creature  had  ever 
before  been  there.  Thrushes,  copper  birds  with  fluted  throats,  sang 
in  the  bushes,  darting  out  occasionally  to  prove  their  reality.  It  was 
a  cloister,  with  pine  trees  for  pillars  and  bird  songs  for  bells.  A  doe 
came  skillfully  out  through  the  trees,  her  pointed  ears  quivering  like 
the  petals  of  a  flower.  She  bent  down  to  the  stream,  and  her  little 
legs  with  their  pale  fur  were  like  slim  poplars  growing  at  the  water's 
edge.  A  buck  followed  her,  and  together  they  drank  at  the  stream. 
A  song  sparrow  fluttered  down  between  them  and  drank  of  the  cool 
water,  tilting  his  head  as  though  he  would  burst  into  song.  The 
sheep's  bell  called  all  furred  and  feathered  things  to  worship,  but 
the  sheep  himself  ignored  the  summons  and  nibbled  at  the  grass. 
The  shadows  lay  in  a  blanket  over  the  sheep  and  the  grass,  the  deer 
and  the  thrush,  and  the  whole  place  was  bewitched. 

"The  island  is  beautiful  in  a  different  way,"  said  Stewart.  "And  I 
was  there  with  someone  I  loved.  That  makes  a  very  great  difference." 

For  a  long  time  Vinnie  waited,  and  waiting,  wondered  what  it 
would  be  like  to  love  Stewart,  to  be  loved  by  him.  His  lean  body,  his 
long  fingers,  his  cadaverous  face,  with  the  high  cheekbones  and  the 
great  dark  eyes.  He  would  either  be  very  exciting  to  love,  or  he 


THE  HILL  215 

would  fill  you  with  disgust.  Either  he  would  love  you  with  unbear- 
able passion,  or  weakly,  in  a  frightened  way. 

"She  was  a  strange  person.  I  never  could  tell  what  she  would  do. 
Once  she  disappeared  for  a  whole  day.  I  thought  she  had  drowned. 
But  she  was  in  the  village  playing  with  the  children.  When  I  found 
her  she  was  angry.  Once  she  threw  sand  in  my  eyes  and  I  groped 
about  like  a  blind  man  for  hours.  When  I  got  the  sand  out  she  was 
laughing  at  me." 

"Are  there  really  people  like  that?"  said  Vinnie. 

"Quite  like  that.  She  was  very  beautiful." 

"Where  is  she  now?" 

"I  don't  know,  and  somehow  it  doesn't  seem  to  matter.  I  loved  her 
a  great  deal,  but  she  never  loved  me.  I  think  she  hated  me  sometimes. 
I  used  to  say  to  myself  that  she  must  love  me  a  little,  or  she  wouldn't 
have  gone  to  the  island  with  me.  But  now  I  know  she  didn't  love 
me  at  all.  She  was  fond  of  me.  She  liked  my  mind  and  the  way  I 
paint,  but  my  body  irritated  her.  I  would  walk  towards  her  across 
the  sand,  and  she  would  shriek  out  and  laugh  at  my  legs.  She  pre- 
tended it  was  in  fun,  but  I  know  she  never  would  have  made  a  game 
of  it  if  it  hadn't  bothered  her.  Sometimes  she  said  I  looked  like  a 
skeleton.  But  there  were  times  when  she  would  let  me  love  her,  and 
then  she  was  most  extraordinarily  kind.  But  suddenly  she  would 
leave  me,  as  though  she  had  just  remembered  how  unlovely  my 
body  was.  Once  when  I  tried  to  caress  her  she  hissed  at  me,  and  ran 
to  the  village  and  hid." 

People  are  dissolved  in  one  another.  People  are  not  wholly  them- 
selves. 

"Tell  me,  Vinnie,  am  I  serpentine?" 

"Look!"  she  said.  Twin  lambs  suckled  their  mother. 

They  sat  close,  she  and  Stewart,  leaning  against  one  headstone, 
covering  the  graven  name  with  their  bodies,  covering  the  memory  of 
the  grave  with  their  thinking.  The  quiet  was  now  and  again  height- 
ened by  the  long  call  of  an  owl;  the  stillness,  by  the  passing  of  a  bird. 
There  was  a  sense  of  intimacy  with  death;  only  a  thin  frosting  of 
grass  separated  them  from  layer  upon  layer  of  soil  and  silence. 
Where  the  grass  began  and  her  body  ended,  Vinnie  could  not  tell. 
She  was  all  one  with  the  grass,  and  the  grass  with  the  grave,  and  in 
a  rare  abandon  of  reason  she  found  herself  to  be  a  part  of  the 
earth;  she  could  not  tell  where  the  wind  touched  her  body.  She  tried 
to  feel  herself  as  a  thing  in  space,  a  moving  substance  with  form  that 
was  defined,  but  she  could  find  no  outline  of  herself  in  the  air  about 


216  ELEANOR  GREEN 

her,  and  looking  at  herself  in  the  shadows,  she  could  not  distinguish 
between  her  dress  and  the  glass.  And  then  there  was  this  person  be- 
side her  for  whom  she  could  feel  nothing.  The  marble  slab  had 
frozen  her  heart. 

She  knew  that  Stewart  was  turning  and  turning  a  thought  about 
in  his  mind.  She  grew  dispassionate.  She  was  glad  that  her  heart  was 
frozen,  that  it  had  been  taken  from  her,  like  the  core  of  an  apple. 
Stewart  spoke. 

"I  do  adore  you,  Vinnie." 

Slowly  the  name  rewrote  itself  on  the  headstone,  the  little  mound 
of  earth  beneath  her  meant  something,  but  from  the  unreality  out 
of  which  she  had  come,  she  ran  headlong  into  this  new  emptiness. 
The  effort  of  hearing  what  he  said  wearied  her.  They  were  sur- 
rounded by  pines  whose  branches  made  music.  Below  them  the  sheep 
grazed  lazily  and  the  shadows  of  hawks  circling  above  them  fretted 
the  little  valley.  He  cannot  mean  what  he  says,  she  thought. 

"But  I  am  your  cousin,  Stewart." 

"That  doesn't  make  you  any  less  a  woman.  You  know,  Vinnie,  you 
are  very  lovely.  Your  hair  and  your  somber  eyes.  And  the  way  you 
move.  And  all  the  things  you  say,  but  more  particularly  the  things 
you  don't  say.  Like  Uncle  John,  for  instance.  It  isn't  true,  what  you 
told  me  about  him,  but  you  won't  tell,  and  I  love  you  for  it.  And  for 
Joie  and  the  rabbit." 

"The  rabbit!  Where  did  I  leave  it?"  Her  eyes  filled  with  fear,  and 
she  was  like  a  child. 

"You  left  him  on  the  rock  when  we  ran  to  hide." 

Already  she  had  disappeared  among  the  trees. 

Stewart  followed  her.  Occasionally  he  caught  sight  of  her  be- 
tween the  pines,  and  now  and  again  he  saw  her  bend  to  pass  beneath 
a  branch.  They  went  separately,  Vinnie  moving  easily,  like  one  who 
is  used  to  the  woods,  Stewart  following  her,  the  motions  of  his  body 
making  him  grotesque.  Vinnie  thought  only  of  the  rabbit.  She 
thought  of  the  frightened  rabbit  and  Joie's  eyes  puckered  with  grief; 
of  Marie  and  her  big  feet  and  her  adamantine  discipline.  Of  the  joy 
Joie  would  have  had  at  finding  the  rabbit  asleep  on  his  bed.  I  must 
find  it,  she  said  over  and  over  to  herself.  I  must  find  it.  She  ran  into 
branches  that  caught  at  her  hair  and  scratched  her  face.  I  must  find 
it,  she  said  again.  Stewart  lost  sight  of  her. 

When  he  finally  came  to  the  rock,  he  found  her  lying  on  her  back 
with  the  rabbit  asleep  on  her  chest.  For  a  long  while  they  were  quiet, 
Stewart  sticking  pine  needles  into  the  braid  of  her  hair.  She  lay  with 
her  eyes  shut,  the  lashes  lying  like  fine  embroidery  against  her  cheeks. 


THE  HILL  217 

Stewart  thought  that  she  was  asleep,  but  she  was  thinking  of  him.  He 
is  serpentine,  she  said  to  herself,  and  thought  again  of  his  love-mak- 
ing. His  hands  would  seek  hers  in  a  frightened  manner;  he  would 
not  know  well  how  to  love  a  woman.  Poor  Stewart  with  sand  in  his 
eyes,  she  said,  but  she  understood  how  the  girl  with  the  pale  hair 
had  done  it.  Stewart  with  a  body  like  a  snake.  Does  he  really  love 
me?  She  shuddered  at  thought  of  his  caressing  her. 

"Are  you  cold?" 

Vinnie  did  not  answer. 

"Tell  me,"  she  said  after  a  bit,  "what  you  are  painting." 

"Nothing.  I  stopped  painting  for  a  year.  I  was  afraid  of  becoming 
a  trickster,  because  I  was  working  on  a  theory  that  design  and  color 
are  disassociated.  It  is  very  hard  to  explain,  and  there  are  lots  of 
difficulties.  I  don't  mean  to  be  a  trickster;  I  would  rather  not  paint  at 
all  than  be  dishonest  about  it.  I  can't  put  it  very  well  in  words." 

"I  know  what  you  mean  by  tricks.  It's  like  an  actor  who  plays 
stock.  He  makes  a  grand  show,  but  it's  not  the  real  thing." 

"Yes,  it's  something  like  that." 

"And  yet  not  like  it." 

"Not  exactly  like  it." 

The  wind  edged  in  about  them.  Below  them  houses  turned  to 
homes  as  women  lighted  lamps,  and  cows  gathered  magic  as  they 
trod  slowly  through  cool  pastures,  silent  dogs  bouncing  gayly  beside 
them.  Owls,  like  beggars,  flew  from  tree  to  tree  and  disappeared  in 
shadows;  night  hawks  piqued  the  stillness  that  held  the  valley. 

"Couldn't  you  love  me,  Vinnie?" 

"Not  that  way,  Stewart.  Not  as  you  want  me  to  love  you;  but  if  I 
were  someone  other  than  your  cousin  I  might  love  you  very  much. 
But  I  am  not  someone  else.  I  am  Vinnie  Morison,  and  I  am  sitting 
on  a  hill  hiding  from  my  family." 

As  she  spoke  there  was  the  sound  of  someone  moving  in  the 
bushes.  They  turned  to  see  Juliette's  umbrella  appear  in  the  midst  of 
the  foliage. 

"My  God,"  said  Stewart,  "I  can't  stand  that  woman.  She's  a  fright." 
He  disappeared  over  the  edge  of  the  rock.  Vinnie  saw  him  bumping 
down  the  steep  hillside.  As  he  stopped,  finally,  in  the  midst  of 
a  prickly  bush,  he  waved  merrily  at  her  and  vanished  among  the 
trees. 

She  turned  her  attention  to  Juliette,  who  stood  at  the  summit  of 
the  hill  looking  out  over  the  valley.  The  umbrella  was  forgotten  and 
lay  open  at  her  feet;  it  yawned  at  her.  Her  body  gained  beauty  from 
the  sunset.  She  was  no  longer  haggard,  but  rather  a  woman  taut  and 


218  ELEANOR  GREEN 

fine.  In  her  hands  she  held  a  paper  bag,  but  she  had  forgotten  it. 
She  was  spellbound  by  the  beauty  before  her. 

At  last  Juliette  turned  to  her.  Tears  seamed  her  cheeks.  This  is  not 
Juliette,  thought  Vinnie.  This  is  some  virgin  saint. 

Juliette  came  towards  her,  holding  the  paper  bag  as  though  it  were 
a  bouquet.  "I  thought  you  might  be  hungry,"  she  said. 

Far  down  in  the  valley  a  solitary  loon  called  out.  Only  its  echo 
answered. 

VII:    BEAUTY  ON  STILTS 

They  sat  for  a  long  while  together,  the  peace  of  isolated  places  hang- 
ing over  them.  Vinnie  held  the  rabbit  in  her  lap  and  ate  slowly  of 
the  sandwiches  Juliette  had  brought  her.  She  beheld  the  design  of 
the  valley,  the  colors  of  the  twilight.  She  listened  to  the  familiar 
sound  of  crickets  drumming  with  their  tiny  wings;  all  that  she  beheld 
and  heard  filled  her  with  delight.  The  world  enchanted  Vinnie. 

But  while  she  reveled  in  the  beauty  about  her,  Juliette  was  filled 
with  grief,  and  her  face  was  like  that  of  one  who  suffers  extreme 
pain.  I  had  forgotten  the  world  was  so  fair,  she  said  to  herself.  She 
did  not,  like  Vinnie,  behold  the  design  of  the  valley,  nor  the  colors 
of  the  twilight,  but  she  saw  that  many  people  lived  regardless  of  one 
another  in  little  houses  where  lilacs  grew  in  clusters  at  the  doors.  She 
saw  that  one  might  walk  for  miles  across  the  marsh  and  never  meet 
a  soul.  She  saw  that  the  world  was  wide  beyond  her  comprehension, 
that  there  could  be  generosity  in  all  living,  and  the  beauty  that  she 
saw  frightened  her. 

And  so  they  sat,  two  women  upon  a  hill,  one  who  was  young,  the 
other  wishing  herself  younger.  For  time  had  taken  a  deep  draught 
of  Juliette's  life.  There  was  little  but  the  dregs  left,  and  realizing  this 
suddenly,  Juliette  was  like  a  drunkard  who,  waking,  finds  his  glass 
empty.  Like  a  drunkard  she  staggered  against  reality,  fell  back  and 
struck  at  it.  Her  senses  reeled  as  she  looked  out  over  the  valley 
and  considered  the  immensity  of  existence,  of  the  earth  and  stars  and 
the  stars  beyond  sight.  The  world  seemed  very  gay  with  its  meadows 
and  pastures  crisscrossed  with  bright  streams  and  dark  woods.  She 
had  no  extraordinarily  clear  vision  of  herself.  Her  thoughts  reeled 
to  the  future,  to  death  and  the  disintegration  of  the  body,  but  she 
was  drunk  with  the  desire  for  life.  Strong  liquor  warmed  her  throat 
and  quickened  her  mind.  To  Vinnie,  who  was  watching  her,  she  was 
no  longer  Juliette;  she  was  beauty  on  stilts,  giddy  with  life. 

Juliette  lay  back  in  the  grass  and  ran  the  pine  needles  through  her 


THE  HILL  2Uj 

fingers  as  though  she  were  combing  wool.  Vinnie  watched  her  in- 
articulate hands. 

"See!"  cried  Juliette.  "That  lovely  bird!" 

"He  looks  as  though  he  were  ice  skating." 

Having  lived  like  a  turtle  beneath  her  umbrella  Juliette  had  not 
often  seen  birds  flying  miraculously  high.  The  birds  she  remembered 
were  robins  and  sparrows  that  fluttered  close  to  the  ground.  She 
had  not  lain  in  the  grass,  nor  climbed  to  high  places.  A  turtle  moves 
slowly  and  with  effort,  the  very  shape  of  his  shell  keeping  him  from 
expanding,  from  turning  over  on  his  back  to  gaze  at  the  heavens. 
Life  to  a  turtle  must  be  a  most  laborious  affair.  Such  it  was,  at  least, 
and  certainly,  to  Juliette.  Or  so  it  had  been. 

"I  feel  like  a  different  person  up  here."  The  words  sauntered  out 
of  her  mouth. 

And  then  shortly  they  started  to  talk  about  Joie  and  the  rabbit, 
Marie  and  Susan,  Stewart  and  Mrs.  Morison. 

"I  sometimes  think  they  are  all  dead  inside,"  said  Juliette.  "But  I 
suppose  they're  not,  really." 

"No,"  answered  Vinnie,  "they're  not,  really."  She  lay  flat  upon 
the  rock  and  looked  down  onto  the  family. 

"You  know,"  said  Juliette,  "I  feel  so  funny.  I  feel  as  though  I  had 
never  known  anything  before.  I  feel  as  though  I  were  just  being 
born.  You  know,  maybe  I  came  full-grown,  like  Minerva  from  the 
head  of  Jupiter.  Only  I'm  being  born  out  of  the  head  of  the  valley." 
She  was  delighted  with  the  idiocy  with  which  she  teased  herself. 

"Only  it's  my  pain.  The  child  is  not  supposed  to  suffer  at  birth, 
but  I  do."  She  looked  about  to  see  if  the  hill  was  in  labor.  "You 
see,"  she  said,  "there  isn't  a  quiver  in  the  valley." 

That  she  suffered,  Vinnie  was  sure.  Her  eyes  were  bright,  as  they 
are  when  one  has  a  fever,  and  her  cheeks  were  crimson.  Her  voice  had 
a  sharpness  to  it  that  sounded  like  blades  in  her  throat.  A  sudden 
twist  of  wind  showered  her  with  leaves  and  fragrance.  "I'm  dizzy," 
she  said.  "There's  so  much  wind  and  so  much  space.  It's  like  being 
God."  She  caught  the  rabbit  up  in  her  hands  and  pressed  him  to  her 
cheek.  "Isn't  he  soft?"  she  said.  Her  laughter  was  small  and  crisp. 

"If  I  were  to  open  my  arms,  I  could  fly,"  she  said. 

"Don't  do  it,"  said  Vinnie.  "I  want  you  to  stay." 

Vinnie  saw  that  life  had  suddenly  become  a  living  thing  to  Juliette. 
It  was  all  glitter  and  bright  sound.  It  was  like  a  woman  with  little 
feet  who  clips  across  a  hard  floor  in  high-heeled  slippers.  It  sparkled 
like  a  dress  of  sequins  (and  the  dress  fitted  her  well),  like  bright  fish 
in  water,  like  silver  in  the  hands  of  the  needy.  It  was  as  though 


220  ELEANOR  GREEN 

Juliette  had  been  a  beggar  all  her  life  and  had  come  suddenly  into 
great  wealth.  Her  mind  was  like  a  Christmas  tree  hung  with  tinsel 
and  silver  baubles.  The  mere  passing  of  a  bird  caused  the  baubles 
to  quiver,  the  glowing  candles  to  bend  down  their  flames,  the  little 
white  angels  to  flutter  from  their  sweet-scented  branches.  Little  birds 
of  cotton  nested  in  the  tree,  and  bells  of  thinnest  metal  made  hare- 
bell music.  Her  hands  that  had  always  been  so  immaculate,  her 
hands  that  were  like  two  nuns  absolving  themselves,  had  learned  a 
new  beauty.  They  held  the  little  rabbit  as  though  it  were  an  offering. 

"My  dear  Vinnie,  I  am  so  happy." 

Vinnie  wondered  if  Juliette  were  not  also  just  a  little  holy,  hap- 
piness being  a  miracle  for  the  layman.  She  imagined  Juliette  sancti- 
fied, a  statue  made  in  her  likeness  and  placed  in  a  niche  in  a  long 
cathedral.  Saint  Juliette  Morison:  because  she  was  happy. 

"Saint  Juliette,"  said  Vinnie.  They  laughed  together,  vying  with 
each  other  in  the  clarity  of  their  tones.  Juliette's  joy  was  evenly  dis- 
tributed, like  sunlight  shining  through  a  lattice.  This  I  shall  never 
forget,  thought  Vinnie.  I  must  remember  everything.  She  laughed  at 
her  own  greed.  What  do  I  know  of  sorrow,  she  thought,  since  I  am 
never  lonely?  What  do  I  know  of  life  at  all?  What  thing  do  I  know 
in  the  world,  save  that  the  earth  is  beautiful,  and  that  I  love  Peter? 

The  children  were  singing.  They  sat  around  the  fire,  and  Harrit 
and  Stewart  lay  in  the  grass,  smoking.  Marie  and  Susan  stood  guard 
at  the  fire.  Mrs.  Morison  and  John,  both  expert  putterers,  fitted  the 
picnic  things  into  the  baskets,  while  Mr.  Morison  sat  in  the  shadows. 
Sibyl's  pheasant  feathers  drooped  over  her  face,  Mary  and  Jane 
threw  pine  cones  onto  the  fire.  Joie  sat  cross-legged,  his  chin  cupped 
in  his  hands.  He  was  not  singing  with  the  others. 

"Poor  Joie,"  said  Juliette.  "He'll  never  forgive  his  mother,  not 
even  when  you  bring  him  the  rabbit." 

Vinnie  turned  to  her,  and  Juliette  mistook  her  wonder  for  in- 
terrogation. 

"He  won't,  you  know.  Children  never  forget.  And  it's  funny,  the 
things  you  remember.  At  least  I  remember  funny  things." 

"What  do  you  remember?"  asked  Vinnie. 

"I  remember  that  my  mother  gave  away  my  first  patent-leather 
slippers,  and  I  begged  her  to  let  me  keep  them.  I  thought  they  were 
very  grand.  I  used  to  take  them  to  bed  with  me,  and  I  tried  to  share 
my  candy  with  them.  They  were  human  to  me.  When  I  wore  them 
I  stepped  lightly  to  keep  from  hurting  them,  and  I  forgot  about  my 
underwear  in  lumps  at  my  ankles  and  my  teeth  set  too  far  apart. 
Joie  will  remember  about  the  rabbit.  But  the  things  you  remem- 


THE  HILL  221 

ber  when  you're  older.  They're  strange,  too.  Just  words,  for  instance. 
And  people's  hands.  Their  hands  and  their  mouths." 

''Their  hands  and  their  mouths?"  It  was  a  long  time  since  Juliette 
had  talked  intimately  with  anyone.  That  she  wanted  to  say  more, 
Vinnie  was  certain,  and  so  she  provided  steppingstones  in  her  ques- 
tions, and  Juliette,  placing  her  feet  carefully  at  first,  walked  swiftly 
through  memory  to  the  past. 

Candles  burned  steadily  on  the  table.  The  faces  of  the  family  were 
immobile,  the  shadows  as  certain  as  paint.  In  the  kitchen  Cook  tip- 
toed from  sink  to  stove,  from  stove  to  sink;  tiptoed  into  the  room, 
moving  from  one  to  the  other  silently.  The  smell  of  flowers  gave  a 
strange  flavor  to  the  food.  Stale  smoke  squeezed  into  the  folds  of  the 
curtains.  The  candles  burned  with  a  demoniac  precision;  the  eyelids 
of  the  flames  never  drooped.  Cook  labored  into  the  room.  Her  body 
was  stagnant:  through  it  no  beauty  had  run.  Her  breasts  lay  heavily 
in  her  dress,  and  her  hands,  like  twisted  cord,  encircled  the  bowl  of 
rice.  Her  large  body  frustrated  Juliette. 

Juliette  looked  from  one  to  the  other.  Frances,  with  her  glasses 
pinched  onto  the  bridge  of  her  nose,  who  stirred  her  tea  with  vigor, 
scraping  at  the  bottom  of  the  cup.  Henry  leaning  back,  blowing 
smoke  rings  into  the  air.  They  did  not  quickly  dissolve,  but  hung 
about  his  head  in  clusters.  Blue  curls,  thought  Juliette.  Mamie,  who 
ran  her  fingers  over  her  endless  chain,  and  ate  of  her  rice  one  kernel 
at  a  time.  Dode,  whose  soft  hair  and  red  cheeks  enhanced  the  grief 
of  her  eyes.  Myself,  thought  Juliette,  and  tried  to  see  herself  as 
though  she  were  a  stranger.  Juliette.  Very  plain.  Very  thin. 

We  are  like  birds,  she  thought.  Juliette,  Frances,  Henry,  Mamie, 
Dode.  Juliette  is  a  sparrow,  careless  of  her  food,  picking  at  the  dung 
of  horses.  Sleek  body,  unpleasant  voice.  Void  of  beauty.  Frances 
scrapes  at  her  cup  like  a  dark  grackle,  and  holds  her  head  as  though 
she  saw  with  the  end  of  her  nose.  Her  hair  grows  grim  about  her 
face;  there  is  no  intimacy  between  hair  and  cheek.  Henry  is  a  mock- 
ing bird.  No  stability  to  him.  Mamie.  My  God,  why  doesn't  she  leave 
her  chain  alone?  Your  fingers  are  not  beautiful,  Mamie.  Neither  is 
your  neck.  Stop  playing  with  your  beads.  Mamie  is  a  jay.  She  mis- 
takes sound  for  tone. 

Cook  trundled  into  the  room.  Cook  is  a  pelican.  Her  neck  is  too 
big. 

"I  suppose,"  said  Mamie,  "you  won't  mind  if  I  pack  up  the  things 
right  away?  The  old  bureau  I'd  like.  And  the  piano.  And  the  book- 
case that  stands  in  the  hall." 


222  ELEANOR  GREEN 

Henry  drew  hard  upon  his  cigarette.  Like  butterflies  ring  upon 
ring  of  smoke  fluttered  out  from  his  mouth.  They  encircled  his  head 
in  a  helmet  of  smoke.  He  was  indiscernible  within  it.  His  voice 
pierced  the  helmet  like  a  fine  steel  blade.  "It  seems  a  little  prema- 
ture, somehow.  Let's  wait  till  tomorrow." 

The  room  grew  breathless.  The  air  was  absorbed  by  the  walls,  and 
the  walls  became  a  sort  of  spongy  matter.  The  design  on  the  wall- 
paper grew  heavy,  like  damp  moss  about  the  room.  The  door 
squeaked  shut  behind  Cook,  and  the  slight  breeze  made  by  the 
closing  door  shook  the  tatters  of  Juliette's  mind.  If  I  sit  very  still, 
thought  Juliette,  the  pieces  will  fit  themselves  together.  She  dared 
not  breathe.  She  looked  from  one  to  another,  shifting  her  eyes  but 
not  moving  her  head. 

Under  the  table  their  feet  pressed  into  the  carpet  like  lifeless 
things.  They  seemed  not  to  be  a  part  of  the  body.  Juliette's  feet  en- 
twined the  legs  of  her  chair.  They  were  crude  and  ugly.  These  feet, 
they  never  knew  passion.  Dull  legs  sheathed  in  silk.  Without  beauty, 
without  purpose.  These  ugly  bodies.  My  sisters  and  my  brother.  My- 
self. God,  we're  an  ugly  lot.  The  deceitfulness  of  our  legs  under  the 
table.  Our  smiling  eyes. 

"Mamie,  let  me  see  your  beads." 

She  reached  across  the  table  for  them.  A  woman  reaching  across 
the  table  for  her  sister's  beads.  Relentless  candles.  A  man  with  a  hel- 
met of  smoke.  I  must  sit  quiet,  thought  Juliette,  and  drew  her  hand 
back  slowly.  The  beads  lay  in  her  lap  in  a  glittering  pool. 

There  is  no  sense  to  it  all.  I  am  not  even  alive.  I  must  sit  quite 
still. 

We  are  all  birds.  Juliette  is  a  sparrow,  Frances  is  a  grackle.  Juli- 
ette's thoughts  swung  back  and  forth  like  a  pendulum.  Henry  is  a 
mocking  bird  and  Mamie  is  a  jay. 

Juliette  is  a  sparrow, 
Frances  is  a  grackle, 
Henry  is  a  mocking  bird 
And  Mamie  is  a  jay. 

The  moment  was  endless;  towards  it  all  living  pointed.  Nothing 
existed  beyond  the  walls  of  the  room,  save  Cook  whose  shoes  squeaked 
in  the  kitchen.  Maybe  she's  sitting  on  the  table  and  her  shoes  are 
walking  around  empty  from  stove  to  cupboard  and  cupboard  to 
stove.  Juliette  rang  the  bell.  The  sound  of  it  was  like  a  trumpet  call. 
Cook  rumbled  down  from  her  heaven. 

"Your  feet,  please,"  said  Juliette. 


THE  HILL  223 

Cook  protested. 

"You  must  get  some  new  shoes."  No  one  seemed  to  have  heard. 
Juliette  was  not  sure  it  had  happened. 

"Have  a  peppermint,  Frances." 

It  seemed  now  that  Frances  listened  with  the  end  of  her  nose. 
Next  she  will  drink  with  it,  thought  Juliette.  Frances's  poor  husband. 

"Poor  Walter." 

They  all  looked  at  her. 

"Because  of  Frances's  nose,"  she  explained.  The  beads  slipped 
from  her  lap  like  a  thin  child.  They  made  a  brittle  sound  as  they 
came  together  under  the  table,  and  Dode,  frightened,  spilled  her 
water.  She  sat,  watching  the  wet  spot  increase.  The  tablecloth  ab- 
sorbed it.  It  spread  like  the  sound  of  laughter. 

"Ring  for  Cook,"  said  Mamie.  The  room  absorbed  the  sound  of 
her  voice  as  the  tablecloth  absorbed  the  water.  Juliette  sat  motionless. 
A  swaying  snake  would  have  fascinated  her  less.  The  walls  of  the 
room  edged  in  to  see;  the  moss  hung  close  about  them.  It  breathed 
upon  their  necks  like  an  animal.  The  candles  stared  at  the  wet  spot. 
The  spongy  matter  of  the  walls  sighed  audibly.  Dode's  hair  hid  her 
face  from  Juliette;  it  was  pale  and  soft.  Sin  is  a  gaudy  thing,  she 
thought. 

A  sharp  noise  in  the  kitchen,  and  they  turned  their  heads  to  the 
door;  the  walls  breathed  upon  their  necks.  Cook  pushed  open  the 
door  with  her  head.  Pelican,  thought  Juliette.  Her  neck's  too  big. 

"They  buried  her  with  her  head  downhill!" 

The  eyelids  of  the  candles  drooped.  The  walls  were  sucked  back 
into  place. 

"Juliette,  you  look  like  a  rat  when  you  chew."  Mamie's  voice  ate 
the  stillness. 

"I  always  remembered  that,"  said  Juliette. 

"She  must  have  been  very  tired,"  said  Vinnie. 

"No,  but  it's  true.  I  chewed  before  a  mirror,  and  I  did  look  like 
a  rat.  I  thought  how  everyone  must  hate  to  sit  at  the  table  with  me, 
how  they  had  hated  it  ever  since  I  was  born.  I  got  to  wondering  if  my 
mother  thought  I  looked  like  a  rat  when  she  nursed  me.  Every  time 
I  sat  down  to  eat  I  thought  of  it.  And  I  thought  of  it  between  meals. 
Finally  I  was  thinking  about  it  all  the  time.  I'd  waken  in  the  night 
and  remember  it.  I'd  think  of  it  while  I  was  readme:.  One  nis:ht  I 
dreamed  that  I  fell  and  hurt  myself  so  that  I  couldn't  get  up.  As  I 
lay  there,  rats  gnawed  at  me  until  I  was  devoured,  and  each  rat  looked 
like  me. 


224  ELEANOR  GREEN 

"And  now?"  said  Vinnie. 

"Now  I  eat  behind  my  umbrella." 

"I  used  to  have  a  game  of  finding  what  animals  people  looked  like. 
And  I  found  something  for  everyone.  Even  for  myself." 

"For  yourself?" 

"Yes.  I  look  like  a  sheep." 

They  smiled  at  each  other,  Vinnie  offering  a  limp  sandwich  from 
the  bag,  Juliette  accepting  it. 

Squirrels  played  about  in  the  trees.  An  acorn,  piercing  the  leaves 
as  it  fell,  dropped  with  a  soft  muffled  sound.  A  thrush  sang,  hidden 
deep  in  the  woods,  while  foxes  moved  slowly  in  the  shadows,  their 
fine  noses  quivering  with  the  sense  of  adventure. 

They  were  no  longer  one  who  was  young,  the  other  wishing  she 
were  younger.  One  was  not  beautiful  and  the  other  plain,  one  was 
not  eager  and  the  other  grieving.  They  were  two  women  whose 
minds  were  tingling  with  anticipation,  two  women  for  either  one  of 
whom  the  future  might  hold  as  much  adventure  as  the  foxes  courted 
in  the  shadows.  The  mind  of  one  was  like  a  Christmas  tree  hung 
with  fluttering  angels  and  fragile,  doll-like  bells.  The  mind  of  the 
other  was  like  a  glockenspiel.  Any  note  was  clear  and  vibrant,  and 
anyone  might  play  upon  it  with  the  hammers  of  his  integrity. 

"Juliette!"  Marie  called  from  the  valley.  Her  voice  was  like  a 
sieve;  the  fine  things  had  gone  through  it.  Juliette  waved. 

"Will  you  go  with  me,  Vinnie?"  She  was  shy  in  asking. 

"I  can't,  Juliette.  I'm  going  to  meet  Peter." 

"Who's  Peter?" 

"Peter?  Oh,  Peter  is  a  friend  of  mine."  But  her  eyes  and  her  voice 
betrayed  her.  Juliette  heard  only  the  sound  of  her  voice.  The  words 
fell  about  her,  leaving  her  bright  and  cool.  In  the  valley  the  foxes 
quivered. 

"Tell  me,"  she  said.  "Tell  me  about  it.  What  is  it,  Vinnie?  What 
is  it  like,  a  man's  love?" 

I  cannot  tell  her  how  it  is,  thought  Vinnie.  I  cannot  tell  her  how 
a  man  loves  with  his  hands,  with  his  voice,  with  his  eyes.  I  cannot  tell 
her  about  these  things,  for  she  will  never  know  any  of  them.  "It  is 
quite  like  being  up  here,"  she  said. 

"I  shall  come  often."  Juliette  started  down  the  path. 

"Don't  tell  Joie  that  I  have  the  rabbit,  Juliette." 

"Of  course  not.  You  want  to  surprise  him."  She  picked  her  um- 
brella from  the  bush.  "In  case  it  rains,"  she  said.  The  umbrella  van- 
ished; Juliette  descended  with  her  parachute. 


THE  HILL  225 

VIII:    HELOISE  TO  ABELARD 

Harrit,  Juliette,  Stewart,  Mother,  John.  Vinnie  fitted  the  edges  of 
their  personalities  together,  made  of  them  that  which  they  had 
been  before:  a  family,  a  unified  design.  I  shall  not  break  the  puzzle 
again,  she  said.  She  felt  that  if  she  were  to  look  into  the  mirror  she 
would  find  that  her  very  eyes  had  lost  their  own  color  and  had  ac- 
quired an  ambiguous  shade,  a  combination  of  her  sister's,  her  moth- 
er's, her  aunt's  and  her  uncle's.  She  would  discover  a  composite  face 
instead  of  her  own.  Her  heart  and  her  mind  had  lost  their  identity. 
She  had  been  raped  of  her  personality;  she  was  no  longer  Vinnie 
Morison,  daughter  of  Mary  and  Henry,  but  a  sort  of  mental  harlot 
who  had  been  seduced  by  pity. 

The  sun,  floating  like  a  scarlet  bobber  on  the  calm  surface  of  the 
horizon,  disappeared  suddenly.  The  valley  grew  miraculously  still. 
In  the  cool  waters  of  the  creek  herons,  like  etched  birds,  stood  silent, 
and  their  long  bills  tilted  to  the  sky  were  like  high  notes  in  music. 
Quail,  those  shy  and  proper  birds  with  wind  under  their  wings, 
stopped  mincing  through  the  leaves  and  allowed  the  evening  to  come 
into  the  valley  with  dignity.  Late  larks,  flying  high,  rested  their  flight 
upon  the  wind,  and  as  they  turned  their  bodies  to  the  earth  their 
songs  trailed  after  them  like  smoke,  or  the  tails  of  kites.  Deer  in  shel- 
tered places  raised  their  antlers  from  the  ground,  and  turning  their 
faces  to  the  sky,  closed  their  eyes.  The  beauty  of  the  evening  was  akin 
to  pain.  No  creature  stirred.  Even  the  little  fishes  kept  in  the  shadow 
of  the  overhanging  marsh  grass,  and  turtles  hung  like  lockets  from 
the  surface  of  the  water. 

The  family  was  quiet.  Joie  lay  face  down  in  the  leaves,  at  some  dis- 
tance from  the  others.  Marie  and  Susan  stood  side  by  side  at  the  fire, 
waiting  to  throw  water  on  it.  Harrit  sat  under  the  pine  tree,  her 
knees  drawn  up,  her  face  hidden  in  them.  John  looked  at  his  watch; 
Mrs.  Morison,  after  folding  the  tablecloth,  sat  with  it  in  her  lap,  her 
fingernails  making  sharp  ridges  of  the  folds.  The  children  made 
castles  of  acorns,  and  Juliette  watched  a  hawk  bank  and  glide.  Mr. 
Morison,  a  handkerchief  to  his  face,  kept  his  eye  on  Joie. 

It  isn't  real,  thought  Vinnie,  and  wondered  how  the  moment 
would  ever  cease  to  be,  how  it  would  be  the  next  moment,  and  the 
family  would  move  carelessly  down  the  road  through  the  valley,  how 
the  night  would  encompass  the  evening;  how  the  night  would  dis- 
solve into  morning,  and  day  into  night.  She  wondered  how  death 
consumed  the  body.  Did  it  work  from  the  outside  in,  or  from  the 
core  of  the  body  out?  How  did  fish  know  when  to  spawn;  trees,  to 


226  ELEANOR  GREEN 

bud?  What  would  become  of  Joie's  heart?  Is  love  one  with  the  flesh, 
or  one  with  the  spirit?  Is  it  infinite  and  everlasting,  or  temporal  and 
transient? 

The  voices  of  the  children  brought  the  moment  to  a  close.  Eternity 
was  once  again  fluid,  the  frost  that  held  it  immobile  tempered  by  a 
child's  warm  voice.  The  valley  grew  suddenly  restless.  The  blue 
herons  flew  up  from  the  creek,  the  turtles  snapped  at  flies.  If  the  chil- 
dren had  not  laughed,  thought  Vinnie,  the  moment  would  never 
have  ended. 

She  watched  the  family  as  they  moved  about.  She  felt  as  though 
she  were  a  puppeteer,  and  they,  her  dolls.  She  knew  so  well  the 
threads  of  their  minds  that  she  felt  confident  of  her  control  of  them. 
Harrit  will  go  first,  she  said,  and  Harrit,  as  though  in  response  to  her 
thought,  got  up  from  the  ground,  and  catching  up  the  heaviest  bas- 
ket ran  down  the  road.  Poor  frightened  child,  said  Vinnie  aloud.  Let 
my  love  protect  her.  Let  my  love  help  her  in  childbirth,  my  devotion 
insure  her  well-being.  She  felt  comforted,  as  though  she  had  laid  the 
robe  of  God  upon  Harrit's  shoulders.  She  has  a  fine  body;  she  will  do 
well  in  childbirth.  Vinnie  spoke  aloud  to  persuade  herself. 

Harrit  went  first,  moving  from  them  in  haste.  Once  again  Vinnie 
thought  of  the  figurehead  upon  the  ship.  Erect,  her  body  bent  into 
the  light,  she  moved  forward  more  like  the  thought  of  motion  than 
the  motion  itself.  The  ease  of  her  body  and  the  grace  with  which  she 
moved  were  a  surety  of  life.  She  moved  swiftly,  a  bright  spot  that  dis- 
appeared and  came  into  view,  and  again  disappeared.  Moving  far- 
ther down  into  the  valley  she  was  lost  from  sight.  The  trees  had 
devoured  her. 

After  Harrit  went  Joie  kicking  a  stone  down  the  path  and  throw- 
ing twigs  up  into  the  trees.  His  mother,  calling  to  him  to  come  back 
to  carry  a  basket,  went  unheeded,  and  when  she  called  a  second  time, 
he  dove  into  the  thicket.  Vinnie,  holding  the  rabbit  close  to  her, 
whispered  into  its  long  ears  that  that  was  the  little  boy  they  were  go- 
ing to  surprise.  After  Joie  went  the  other  children,  and  Marie  and 
Susan,  well-laden  with  baskets,  trudged  after  them.  Vinnie,  in  spite 
of  herself,  was  moved  to  pity  for  them.  Because  they  are  so  content, 
she  said.  And  so  unlovely.  Then  Stewart,  balancing  Juliette's  um- 
brella on  his  chin,  pranced  down  the  road  on  his  toes,  while  Juliette, 
who  was  giddy  with  life,  staggered  after  him,  Stewart's  wreath  of 
daisies  tilted  over  one  eye  like  a  bacchanal.  Mrs.  Morison  and  John, 
their  secrets  hidden  from  each  other,  walked  solemnly  into  the 
valley.  After  they  had  disappeared,  Mr.  Morison  came  out  from  the 
thicket.  He  walked  down  into  the  meadow  and  picked  a  daisy,  pull- 


THE  HILL  227 

ing  the  petals  from  it  one  by  one.  She  loves  me,  she  loves  me  not. 
She  loves  me,  she  loves  me  not.  The  last  petal  said  that  she  loved 
him.  He  looked  at  the  center  of  the  shorn  flower  for  some  time,  and 
then,  shaking  his  head,  let  it  drop  from  his  hand,  and  turned  to  the 
road.  Joie  in  hiding  in  the  bushes  had  been  waiting  for  him,  and 
surprising  him  with  a  growl,  dashed  out,  laughing.  They  talked  to- 
gether for  a  little,  Mr.  Morison  taking  from  his  pocket  something 
for  the  little  boy.  Though  Vinnie  could  not  see  what  it  was,  she 
was  sure  that  it  was  a  carved  rabbit.  They  vanished  among  the 
trees,  walking  hand  in  hand,  the  child's  bright  laughter  mingling 
with  the  man's  mild  voice. 

That  is  my  father.  A  man  of  fifty  pulling  petals  from  a  daisy.  But 
how  well  he  knows.  How  well  he  knows  that  my  mother  doesn't  love 
him.  She  realized  with  exquisite  clarity  what  living  had  meant  to 
her  father.  These  many  years  they  had  lived  together,  he  and  her 
mother,  and  these  many  years  he  had  hungered  for  her  love.  Being  a 
shy  man  he  thought  that  he  annoyed  her,  and  so  had  sought  in  every 
way  to  make  himself  as  inconspicuous  as  possible.  If  it  is  my  hands, 
Vinnie  imagined  him  thinking,  I  will  keep  my  hands  from  her 
sight.  If  it  is  my  hair,  or  the  way  my  whiskers  grow,  I  shall  keep  my 
hair  cut  and  my  face  shaven.  If  it  is  my  mouth,  or  the  way  I  eat  my 
food,  I  shall  say  little  and  chew  carefully.  And  so  he  had  grown  to 
be  apologetic,  and  Vinnie,  remembering  how  he  slept  in  the  bed, 
understood  his  body,  his  manner  of  coming  into  a  room,  his  way  of 
looking  up  from  under  his  grey  eyelashes.  And  being,  though  shy, 
a  man  eager  for  love,  and  for  the  comfort  of  a  woman's  nearness,  his 
life,  as  she  now  understood  it,  seemed  to  Vinnie  to  have  been  un- 
utterably bleak  and  desolate,  as,  indeed,  it  had  been.  She  knew  noth- 
ing of  her  father,  except  that  he  wras  a  little  man  with  grey  eyes  wTho 
was  kind  and  quiet,  who  held  his  hands  behind  his  back  and  came 
into  a  room  as  softly  as  a  shadow.  That  was  all  she  had  known  of 
him  until  that  moment  when  he  stood  in  the  daisy  field  pulling 
petals  from  a  flower.  Like  a  bee,  she  opened  the  bud  of  his  life,  and  per- 
ceiving the  sweetness  therein,  drank  deep  of  his  goodness  and  sorrow. 

As  they  had  disappeared  into  the  trees,  lost  in  the  intricacies  of 
nature's  abundance,  she  allowed  thought  of  them  to  drop  from  her. 
She  was  like  a  swimmer  emerging  from  the  water  glittering  and  im- 
maculate. Bathed  in  the  chilling  perception  of  their  lives,  she  stood 
now  cool  with  tolerance,  brilliant  with  understanding.  How  delicate 
a  thing  living  is,  she  said  to  herself.  Harrit  with  her  baby,  Juliette 
and  fear,  John  and  his  conscience;  these  people  who  walked  down 
into  the  valley,  exiles  from  their  native  happiness,  were  no  longer 


228  ELEANOR  GREEN 

sister  and  parents,  uncle  and  aunt  to  Vinnie.  They  were  humanity. 
They  were  a  part  of  her  life,  a  part  of  her  body.  They  moved  farther 
and  farther  from  her,  moved  through  the  trees  towards  her  home 
where  they  would  go  to  bed  and  sleep,  and  wake  again  in  the  morn- 
ing to  rise  and  eat,  and  complete  another  day.  Their  voices  became 
fainter,  and  Vinnie  was  no  longer  sure  that  she  heard  them  at  all. 
They  moved  from  her,  league  upon  league  of  wooded  land  lying 
between  them,  but  the  essence  of  each  of  them  stayed  with  her. 

After  the  sun  had  set,  the  air  grew  cool.  The  end  of  summer  was 
at  hand,  and  soon  the  leaves  would  turn  and  the  earth  would  grow 
hard  and  the  wind,  crisp.  There  would  be  a  brittleness  to  living.  In 
the  morning  the  hoar  frost  would  weave  the  marsh  to  the  hills  and 
the  hills  to  the  sky  in  a  subtle  pattern,  and  the  trees  would  emerge 
like  skeletons.  The  bittersweet  berries  would  crack  open,  and  grow- 
ing against  the  grey  wall  of  the  house  they  would  look  like  drops 
of  blood.  Ducks  would  fly  desperately  over  the  marshes,  the  labored 
beating  of  their  wings  betraying  their  fear,  their  rigid  throats  pressed 
against  space,  while  deer,  loving  life,  would  desert  the  deep  woods, 
and  proud  of  their  antlers,  play  target  for  men,  their  soft-eared  does 
trembling,  grieving,  in  the  forest.  All  these  things  would  happen, 
and  the  late  summer  would  bleed  itself  away  in  brilliant  splashes.  A 
meadow  and  a  hill,  dull  at  sunset,  would  be  crimson  in  the  morning. 
Squirrels,  in  the  midst  of  the  infected  land,  would  dash  about 
through  the  trees  with  madness  in  their  little  minds,  and  lean  birds 
would  fly  south  in  terror.  All  this  will  happen,  and  more,  thought 
Vinnie.  Like  the  fall  which  consumes  the  summer,  and  the  summer 
the  spring,  my  youth  will  be  surrendered  to  life,  my  life,  to  living, 
and  my  living,  like  all  living,  to  the  generations  to  come.  The  things 
that  I  love  and  the  things  that  I  know  will  be  forgotten,  like  this 
day,  this  splendid  summer  day  that  is  even  now  darkened  with 
twilight. 

But  there  is  Peter,  she  remembered,  and  the  moment  which  had 
been  barren  bloomed  like  a  flower  with  the  thought  of  him.  Peter 
to  Vinnie  was  like  the  North  Star  to  the  sailor  or  to  the  man  lost  in 
the  maze  of  a  forest.  Like  the  needle  in  the  compass  infallibly  turn- 
ing north,  Vinnie's  mind  sped  to  Peter,  were  she  in  the  depths  of 
the  wood  or  on  the  pavements  of  the  town.  Waking  suddenly  in  the 
night  at  the  sound  of  an  acorn's  falling,  she  thought  of  him;  or  when 
she  talked  to  her  family  she  would  be  ever  conscious  of  his  person, 
were  he  near  at  hand  or  a  hundred  miles  away.  She  regretted  this,  for 
she  longed  to  keep  the  thought  of  him  secret,  hidden.   But  she 


THE  HILL  229 

carried  him  in  her  mind  as  a  woman  carries  a  handkerchief— casually, 
tucked  down  into  her  bossom,  or  stuffed  up  into  her  sleeve.  But 
jewel-like  the  thought  of  him  sparkled  in  her  mind,  and  no  hour 
of  any  day  was  dull,  nor  any  day  quite  long  enough  for  thought  of  him. 

Yes,  there  is  Peter,  she  said,  and  laughed  aloud,  and  the  sound,  in 
the  still  twilight,  was  like  a  silver  thread  woven  through  dark  cloth. 
There  is  Peter,  she  said,  and  bent  down,  like  a  reed  in  the  wind,  to 
pick  up  the  rabbit.  There  is  Peter,  and  we  are  going  to  meet  him. 

She  looked  out  across  the  valley:  dark  hills  that  encircled  the 
neck  of  the  valley  like  a  fur;  thin  threads  of  smoke  rising  from 
doll-like  farmhouses;  cows  standing  thoughtful  at  the  fence;  these 
things  and  the  sound  of  a  woman's  clear  voice  rising  like  a  slow  mist 
from  the  valley,  and  the  fragrance  of  hay  and  pine  needles  and  sweet 
marsh  grass,  she  sought  to  remember.  And  when  she  had  beheld 
them,  one  by  one,  and  loved  them  over  again,  she  turned  from  the 
valley  into  the  woods.  We  must  get  down  before  it  is  dark,  she  said, 
and  parted  the  branches  of  the  trees  and  bushes  to  make  a  path  for 
herself.  She  put  the  rabbit  inside  her  dress,  and  it  was  warm  and 
soft  against  her,  and  she  was  free  to  use  both  hands.  She  was  con- 
scious of  the  outline  of  her  body;  the  cool  air  encircled  her,  and 
moving  among  the  leaves  one  would  have  thought  she  was  a  Druid 
as  she  made  her  way  along  the  ridge  of  the  hill. 

Vinnie,  harlot  of  compassion,  descended  into  the  valley,  leaving 
only  a  broken  twig,  or  leaves  falling.  She  passed  among  the  bushes 
easily,  a  woman  of  beauty  and  grace.  A  Druid  she  might  have  been, 
or  an  Indian  woman.  But  she  was  Heloi'se  walking  through  the  woods 
to  Abelard.  The  evening  was  heavy  with  anticipation,  and  like  a 
woman  who,  eager  for  her  lover,  sits  motionless  at  his  approach,  the 
dusk  halted.  It  drew  no  nearer  to  night,  and  even  the  birds  in  the 
sky  seemed  to  fold  up  their  flight  and  lie  still  like  leaves  upon  a  mo- 
tionless pool.  But  though  Vinnie  was  quiet  and  beheld  the  silence 
and  the  dusk  that  lingered  like  a  spoiled  child,  although  she  herself 
was  still  in  the  midst  of  the  woods,  her  eagerness  to  see  Peter  pre- 
ceded her.  Her  mind  was  already  with  him;  the  hours  before  their 
meeting  seemed  endless,  and  as  she  made  her  way  towards  the 
marshes,  descending  to  them  like  a  stream  that  finds  its  source  in  the 
hills  but  its  comfort  in  the  valley,  she  wondered  what  common  magic 
certain  things  possess,  that  they  should  fill  the  heart  with  an  eternal 
beauty,  and  how  the  mind  manages  to  seek  out  the  things  that  it  will 
cherish:  a  child's  first  patent-leather  slippers;  flowers  growing  by  a 
deserted  house;  church  bells  rung  at  twilight  in  a  little  town;  birds 


230  ELEANOR  GREEN 

who  build  their  nests  in  furrows  and  fly  out  stricken  at  man's  ap- 
proach; a  dog  sitting  by  a  closed  door,  and  a  hungry  man  who  looks 
at  flowers. 

She  came,  finally,  into  the  valley,  and  the  moon  like  a  child's  bent 
toy  toppled  over  the  hill,  while  the  earth,  scarcely  dark  from  the  sun- 
light, was  bright  again,  for  the  earth  can  be  a  most  inconstant  lover. 
She  was  like  a  piece  of  metal  attracted  by  a  magnet.  She  tried  to 
harden  her  desire  for  Peter,  to  keep  it  firm  in  her  mind,  but  it  ran 
through  her  body  as  the  veins  from  her  heart,  and  no  part  of  her  was 
free  from  it.  Her  fingers,  extraordinary  miracles  of  gesture,  grew 
strange  to  her,  and  looking  down  at  her  body  she  could  not  identify 
it  as  her  own.  To  hear  his  voice,  to  see  him  walk  towards  her  with  his 
peculiar,  halting  steps;  for  this  she  waited.  And  waiting,  it  was  as 
though  quicksilver  ran  through  her  body,  as  though  a  thousand  little 
bells  rang  in  her  veins.  As  she  walked  in  the  valley,  stepping  care- 
fully and  bending  the  sharp  bushes  aside,  she  was  not  aware  of  mov- 
ing. She  had  walked  out  to  the  middle  of  the  stream  before  she  real- 
ized that  she  was  near  the  water.  Standing  there,  her  face  and  throat 
as  white  as  alabaster  in  the  moonlight,  her  wet  dress  clinging  to  her 
thighs  and  legs  as  though  wind  beat  against  her,  she  herself  was  like 
a  blue  heron.  The  stars  reflected  in  the  water  were  like  bright  shells 
floating  with  the  current  which  swept  about  her  legs,  and  the  sandy 
bottom  sent  up  necklaces  of  bubbles. 

IX:    OLD  MAN  DYING 

"If  i  were  never  to  see  you  again,  I  wonder  what  thing  about  you  I 
would  best  remember.  Would  it  be  your  lips  and.  the  shape  of  your 
kiss,  or  would  it  be  your  voice?  Would  it  be  the  way  you  run,  or 
would  I  remember  your  hair?" 

Vinnie  felt  that  she  would  stop  breathing  if  Peter  said  more 
words.  She  tried  to  keep  him  from  going  on.  She  needed  time  to  re- 
member these  words.  For  the  future  she  must  have  them,  when 
there  would  be  no  words,  no  Peter,  no  night  with  a  moon  and  the 
smell  of  the  soil,  and  a  sick  Indian  giving  an  excuse  for  the  two  of 
them  to  be  together.  He  lay  there  dying,  the  old  man,  not  two  hun- 
dred yards  away.  There  in  that  hut  with  the  windows  shut  tight  and 
three  squaws  sitting  around,  their  heavy  thighs  pressing  into  the  dirt 
floor,  their  breasts  resting  against  their  bodies  like  tired  children,  lay 
an  old  man  dying.  He  was  very  old.  Some  said  he  was  over  a  hundred. 
The  room  was  hot  and  the  air  foul,  like  the  breath  of  very  old 
people,  and  in  the  corner,  on  a  fruit  box,  stood  a  lamp  that  burned 


THE  HILL  2V 

in  a  ragged  flame.  The  light  threw  shadows  on  the  walls  and  along 
the  ceiling,  and  the  heat  and  the  swaying  bodies  of  the  women  closed 
in  upon  the  old  man. 

"And  the  old  man  lies  there  dying,  and  here  we  are,  loving  each 
other,"  she  said. 

"What  of  that?"  said  Peter,  and  laid  his  hand  over  hers. 

"It  doesn't  seem  right  to  me." 

"But  it  is  right;  it's  life,  and  we  can't  deny  life." 

"No,  but  what  does  dying  have  to  do  with  loving?"  asked  Vinnie. 

"Everything,"  Peter  answered. 

The  word  fell  heavily  into  Vinnie's  mind,  sending  out  ripples  of 
fear,  as  a  stone  does,  or  a  pebble,  dropped  into  a  pool.  The  word 
moved  as  in  an  eddy,  touching  now  with  this  current  of  thought  and 
now  with  that  one.  She  could  feel  the  dark  places  beneath  the  water, 
she  could  feel  the  undertow.  Everything.  Everything.  But  it  doesn't. 
It  has  nothing  to  do  with  love.  That  old  man  with  his  grey  curls  and 
his  brown  body  broken  with  age  has  nothing  to  do  with  Vinnie  and 
Peter,  sitting  here  in  the  night.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  us,  this 
old  man's  dying. 

"No,  Peter,  not  everything,"  she  said.  But  Peter,  instead  of  an- 
swering, put  his  head  in  her  lap  and  blew  smoke  into  her  face. 

"Tell  me  a  fairy  story,"  she  said. 

"Once  there  was  a  little  girl  and  her  name  was  Vinnie  and  she 
loved  a  little  boy  and  his  name  was  Peter,  and  when  they  grew  up 
they  were  married,  and  lived  happily  ever  after." 

Vinnie  laid  her  hand  upon  Peter's  face.  Gently,  as  one  who  has 
reverence  for  the  human  body,  she  passed  her  hand  along  his  fore- 
head. She  stroked  the  lids  of  his  eyes  and  followed  the  line  of  his 
brows  with  her  fingertips.  In  her  two  hands  she  held  his  face,  look- 
ing down  into  his  eyes  as  though  they  were  something  she  had  never 
seen.  He  was  not  Peter,  whom  she  loved,  but  a  symbol  of  life.  She 
sat  looking  down  into  his  face,  searching  for  some  miracle  of  knowl- 
edge. How  strange  a  thing  a  face  is,  that  in  the  nighttime  lies  like  a 
dead  thing  upon  a  pillow  and  in  the  daytime  becomes  alert  and 
beautiful.  She  loved  the  feel  of  his  skin,  the  mass  of  bone  beneath  his 
hair,  the  long  thin  nose.  She  loved  the  feel  of  the  pulse  in  his  veins. 
It  was  maddening;  it  beat  like  tom-toms  against  her  hands.  That 
moment,  as  she  sat  there  in  the  night,  waiting  for  the  old  man  to 
die,  each  beat  of  Peter's  heart  was  an  arrow  in  her  flesh.  She  was 
afraid  of  tomorrow  and  the  next  day  and  next  year  and  the  year 
after  and  the  long  years  in  the  grave.  She  wanted  to  preserve  his  life, 
to  stop  the  progress  of  living,  to  arrest  his  aging  day  by  day.  She 


232  ELEANOR  GREEN 

wanted  to  keep  it  forever  tonight,  forever  this  moment,  with  Peter's 
head  in  her  lap  and  the  earth  cool  beneath  her.  She  wanted  to  keep 
the  old  man  from  dying;  with  his  death  life  would  speed  up  to  an- 
other death,  and  she  and  Peter  would  be  waiting  for  someone  else 
to  die,  or  perhaps  she  would  be  waiting  alone,  with  no  head  in  her 
lap,  no  deep,  eternal  mystery  throbbing  between  her  hands. 

"I  know  what  I  would  remember.  It  would  be  your  hands.  They 
make  me  feel  very  young;  I  want  to  cry  when  vou  touch  me.  I  would 
surely  remember  your  hands." 

A  girl  awakened  suddenly  to  womanhood  is  a  terrifying  and  beau- 
tiful thing,  and  Vinnie  loved  herself  and  this  moment,  sought  to 
remember  so  that  later,  when  she  was  a  woman  without  beauty, 
without  love,  without  Peter,  she  might  love  him  and  herself  over 
again,  as  she  did  now.  She  felt  that  she  had  reached  the  summit  of 
the  spirit,  and  feeling  so,  she  bent  her  head  to  kiss  him. 

The  door  of  the  hut  opened,  and  a  faint  blur  of  light  framed  a 
man  who  stood  dumbly  in  the  doorway.  This  was  the  moment  for 
them  to  go,  for  them  to  move  apart  and  return  to  the  bedside  of  a 
dying  man.  The  moment  having  come,  they  did  as  was  demanded 
of  them,  separated  their  thoughts  and  passed  into  the  hut  where  the 
three  squaws  swayed  back  and  forth.  Three  men  had  come  in  after 
them,  crowding  the  doorway.  The  old  man  lay  on  his  pile  of  rags 
and  moaned.  "Girl,"  he  whispered.  "Girl."  Very  slowly  he  moved  his 
hand  from  under  the  blanket.  Quickly  Vinnie  knelt  down  beside 
him  and  took  his  hand  in  hers.  It  was  the  name  he  always  called  her. 
"Girl,"  he  said  again.  Vinnie  thought  he  smiled.  Such  a  brown  skin, 
she  thought.  Such  a  tired,  thin  hand.  It  was  like  the  shadow  of  a 
hand.  Too  fragile,  too  beautiful  for  life.  But  it  isn't  for  life,  she  said 
to  herself.  It's  for  death. 

Peter  asked  her  for  water,  and  she  poured  it  over  his  hands.  He 
took  from  his  bag,  which  in  this  light  and  with  these  people  became 
a  witch's  kit  instead  of  a  medical  bag,  his  needle  and  serum.  He  pre- 
pared everything  deliberately,  slowly,  and  Vinnie,  watching  him 
bending  over  the  old  man,  felt  that  it  was  something  she  had  seen 
before,  something  infinitely  good,  infinitely  just.  The  beads  of 
perspiration  stood  out  like  embroidery  on  the  faces  of  the  women, 
and  they  pressed  their  thighs  into  the  ground.  When  the  old  man 
opened  his  eyes  suddenly,  Peter  said  quietly  to  him,  "See.  You  feel 
better  after  this.  This  will  make  you  feel  good.  See."  He  thrust  the 
needle  into  the  delicate  skin.  "That  didn't  hurt,  did  it?"  he  said,  as 
though  he  were  talking  to  a  child,  and  the  old  man  smiled  up  at  him; 
the  women  ceased  swaying. 


THE  HILL  233 

''It's  easy,  isn't  it?"  asked  Peter,  as  they  walked  away  from  the  hut, 
down  through  the  woods. 

"Too  easy,"  Vinnie  answered,  and  Peter,  hearing  tears  in  her 
voice,  set  his  bag  down  in  the  grass  and  held  her  to  him.  His  body 
pressed  to  hers  restored  her  courage,  and  laughing  softly  she  turned 
her  face  to  his. 

They  walked  on,  stepping  carefully  through  the  underbrush,  and 
speaking  softly,  as  though  they  were  afraid  of  disturbing  the  small 
animals  that  must  indeed  be  very  tired  by  nighttime.  They  stopped 
for  a  moment;  about  them  no  leaf  stirred,  but  Joie's  rabbit  listened 
to  the  quiet  as  though  it  were  filled  with  shouting. 

Coming  out  of  the  wooded  place  they  walked  down  the  road  with- 
out speaking,  having  found  in  each  other's  presence  a  certainty  that 
needed  no  words.  Vinnie  felt  the  earth  now  hard,  now  soft  about 
her  feet.  The  rain  had  packed  the  sand  tight  and  fitted  the  loose 
grains  together,  so  that  their  feet  coming  down  upon  the  ground 
made  a  sharp  sound,  like  laughter.  Occasionally  when  she  found  the 
imprint  of  a  horse's  hoof  the  sand  would  hurry  to  encircle  her  foot. 
Owls  called  in  the  woods,  and  birds  cried  out.  But  feeling  the  earth 
now  hard,  now  soft  under  her  tread,  and  hearing  the  owls  and  the 
birds,  she  still  thought  of  other  things,  and  gave  no  more  of  her  atten- 
tion to  the  earth  and  the  sounds  in  the  air  than  was  necessary  for 
recording  them.  She  could  not  recall  herself  from  the  hut  and  the 
squaws,  the  foul  smell  and  the  meager  light,  from  the  pile  of  ragged 
blankets  that  made  the  deathbed  for  the  old  man.  She  thought  of 
Peter  bending  over,  the  embroidered  faces  of  the  women.  She 
thought  of  herself  kneeling  on  the  dirt  floor,  of  the  old  man's  hand 
lying  in  hers.  He  would  soon  be  dead,  he  whose  hand  had  lain  in 
hers  a  little  while  ago.  Where  would  the  feel  of  her  hand  be  then? 
Where  would  be  the  image  of  her  that  lay  long  enough  in  his  mind 
to  make  him  smile?  What  would  become  of  his  knowledge? 

"Do  you  know,"  said  Peter,  "how  much  I  love  you?" 

"How  much?"  she  answered,  knowing  well  what  he  would  say. 
And  he  was  saying  what  she  expected  him  to.  More  than  anything  in 
the  world,  more  than  life  itself,  he  was  saying.  But  he  went  beyond 
her  expectation;  told  her  that  he  never  had  loved  anyone  as  he  did 
her.  Even  your  wife?  she  asked,  and  he  answered  that  people  marry 
for  strange  reasons.  They  walked  together  down  the  road  with  their 
love  for  each  other  between  them,  like  a  child,  or  a  plate-glass  win- 
dow, seeing  each  other  through  it,  each  understanding  the  other 
because  of  it.  As  parents  feel  occasionally,  exquisitely  and  with 
agony,  that  their  child  will  grow  beyond  them;  that  somehow  their 


234  ELEANOR  GREEN 

fulfillment  in  each  other  will  be  taken  from  them  and  lost;  that  the 
grown  body  of  the  child  will  steal  the  germ  of  creation  which  once 
was  theirs,  so  now  they  felt  as  their  hands  came  together  in  the  night, 
as  their  fingers  touched  for  a  fine  second,  like  thin  streaks  of  light- 
ning or  separate  songs  simultaneously  sung.  And  for  the  second  time 
that  night  Vinnie  sought  to  engrave  upon  her  senses  the  touch  of 
Peter's  hand,  the  sound  of  feet,  of  birds  frightened  by  two  lovers 
passing,  the  sight  of  the  marsh  laden  with  moonlight,  the  heart 
within  her. 

They  came  finally  to  the  fork  in  the  road.  He  held  her  hard  to 
him,  pressing  her  body  against  his  so  that  his  hipbones  bruised  her 
flesh.  She  listened  to  him  tell  how  he  would  devour  her,  like  a  beast 
his  prey,  so  that  he  might  carry  her  inside  of  him.  and  possess  her 
completely  and  forever.  She  laughed,  her  breath  bitten  off  by  the 
pressure  of  his  body.  God,  she  thought,  I  can't  hold  any  more  love. 
Then  he  left  her  and  walked  a  little  way  down  the  road  that  turned 
to  the  right.  She  saw  him  get  into  his  car  that  stood  in  the  shadows; 
she  watched  him  drive  away  in  darkness. 

For  a  long  time  she  stood  there,  the  rabbit  secure  and  warm 
against  her.  There  is  no  time  for  weeping,  she  whispered,  and  know- 
ing, as  women  do  at  birth,  that  identity  lies  within  oneself  alone,  and 
that  all  lives  run  separately,  she  turned  towards  home. 

The  night,  like  a  weighted  shawl,  hung  down  about  her. 


Country  People 


BY  RUTH  SUCKOW 


PART     ONE 

I:    AUGUST  KAETTERHENRY'S  PLACE 

Some  of  the  best  land  in  the  country,  people  said,  was  right  here 
in  Richland  Township.  The  soil  in  Wapsipinicon  County  was  a 
little  inclined  to  be  sandy,  didn't  bring  quite  the  price  of  the  very 
best  Iowa  farming-land;  but  this  stretch  in  here  between  Richland 
and  "Wapsie"  didn't  give  the  farmers  much  chance  for  complaint. 

This  was  the  road  that  was  later  made  a  highway.  It  had  a  slight 
jog  about  a  mile  out  of  Richland.  Tall  cottonwoods  grew  on  one 
side,  on  the  other  a  tangle  of  bushes.  There  was  always  a  kind  of 
mud-hole  here,  sifted  over  with  leaves  and  little  fluffs  from  the  cot- 
tonwoods; a  bad  place  in  the  road,  closed  in  and  shaded. 

Beyond  this  it  was  all  straight  going  to  "Wapsie."  The  land  spread 
out  rich  and  rolling,  in  smooth,  tilted  vistas  of  square  fields,  green, 
yellow,  and  earth-brown,  trees  growing  in  full-leaved  clusters  down 
about  the  banks  of  the  little  caved-in  creeks  in  the  pastures  or  stand- 
ing lone,  and  slanting,  on  the  crests  of  the  low,  rounded  hills.  In 
the  distance  the  groves  of  farms  were  softened,  blurred  together; 
the  far-off  rising  land  was  swathed  in  blue,  a  faint  milky  tint  in 
which  dim  figures  of  trees  were  swimming. 

A  pink  frame  school-house  stood  on  one  side  of  the  road.  The 
long  grass  was  trampled  this  way  and  that  by  the  children's  feet. 
Over  beyond  Ed  Angell's  place  lay  the  Grove,  where  Sunday-school 
picnics  and  Fourth  of  July  celebrations  were  held— a  rich,  thick 
cluster  of  trees,  oaks  and  hickories,  spreading  over  the  hill  and  down 
the  depressions  of  the  slope,  dark  green  upon  the  paler  green  of  the 
short-cropped  grass  on  the  hill-side.  The  road  went  high  and  straight 
until  it  dipped  down  into  "Wapsie,"  which  lay  deep  in  trees,  the 
red  stone  tower  of  the  court-house  rising  out  of  thick  tufts  of  elms. 

235 


236  RUTH   SUCKOW 

The  farms  were  good  along  this  road.  A  good  class  of  people  had 
settled  here,  German  and  English  most  of  them.  Men  who  kept  an 
eve  out  for  land  deals  noted  shrewdly  how  well  the  buildings  and 
barbed-wire  fences  were  kept  up,  the  red  barns  and  silos,  the  prim 
white  houses,  square  or  with  an  ell,  some  of  them  with  front  yards 
enclosed  in  fences,  and  rose  or  snowball  bushes  growing.  Most  of 
these  farmers— except  the  LaRues,  who  lived  in  a  dingy,  unpainted 
house  with  a  bare  farm-yard  and  a  hog-pen  of  trampled,  sloughy 
mud— drove  into  town  in  neat  "two-seated  rigs"  with  good  teams. 
The  cattle  feeding  in  the  pastures  that  sloped  down,  emerald-green, 
turfy,  almost  mossy,  to  the  edges  of  the  creeks  were  sleek  and  brown. 

Over  on  the  cross-roads  there  were  more  woods,  and  it  was  hillier. 
The  farm-buildings  were  poorer,  the  fences  slacker.  These  were  the 
farms  where  people  from  "Wapsie"  drove  out  to  buy  cheap  a 
chicken,  a  goose,  or  a  few  crates  of  berries. 

The  place  on  the  north  of  the  road,  beyond  LaRue's,  was  August 
Kaetterhenry's. 

It  was  a  neat,  plain  farm,  two  hundred  and  fifty  acres,  virtually 
all  under  cultivation.  The  house  was  set  back  at  what  was  termed 
"a  nice  distance"  from  the  road— a  white  house  with  pink  trimmings 
and  a  narrow  porch.  The  front  yard  was  not  fenced  in,  but  August 
made  the  boys  keep  the  grass  mowed,  and  it  presented  a  neat  ap- 
pearance. Tall  summer  lilies,  orange  with  dark  spots,  grew  near  the 
front  porch  in  a  spreading  patch.  On  the  west  of  the  house  stood  the 
wind-break— two  rows  of  elms  that  were  lofty  now,  rather  thin,  and 
close  together.  The  lawn  ended  at  their  trunks  in  a  ridge  of  high 
grass  and  feathery  weeds  that  the  boys  could  not  keep  cut.  A  barbed- 
wire  fence,  caught  together  in  one  place  by  a  wooden  staple,  sepa- 
rated them  from  the  cornfield.  The  lofty  upper  branches  rustled  and 
moved  slightly  against  the  blue  sky.  In  the  evening  their  outlines 
were  blurred  and  there  was  a  sadness  in  their  dark  leafiness,  high 
and  motionless. 

The  wide  yard  sloped  east  to  the  barns  and  sheds  across  "the 
drive."  It  was  worn  bare  of  grass  about  the  buildings  and  scattered 
with  chicken  fluff  and  droppings.  The  geese  ran  squawking  across 
it  when  teams  drove  in.  The  great  barn  stood  at  the  end  of  the 
slope,  raised  on  a  high  foundation,  with  an  inclined  platform  of 
heavy  planks  that  thundered  and  shook  under  the  horses'  hoofs. 
Everyone  about  here  remembered  when  August  Kaetterhenry  had 
put  up  this  barn.  It  was  painted  white,  as  was  the  silo,  and  on  the 
peak  of  the  roof  were  two  cupolas  with  slatted  sides,  and  lightning- 
rods  that  glittered  intermittently  upon  the  blueness  of  the  sky.  On 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  237 

the  side  toward  the  road  was  oainted  in  large  black  letters  slowly 
getting  weather-dimmed: 

AUGUST    KAETTERHENRY 
ICJO7 

It  was  one  of  the  best  barns  in  the  country  there  when  it  was  put 
up.  All  of  Kaetterhenry's  buildings  were  good.  The  old  barn  had 
been  made  over  by  his  brother-in-law,  Hans  Stille,  into  a  granary 
and  milk-house,  painted  white,  too,  the  ground  always  slippery  and 
muddy  about  the  milk-house,  a  dribble  of  yellow  ears  leaking  out 
from  the  corn-crib,  kernels  scattered  in  front  of  it,  where  the  chickens 
were  pecking.  On  the  slope  nearer  the  house  the  windmill  stood, 
with  the  tank  beside  it,  a  bare  steel  skeleton  giving  off  sudden  flashes, 
the  grey-painted  wheel  turning  now  fast,  now  slow,  up  there  in  the 
sky. 

"Yes,"  people  said  when  they  drove  past,  "Kaetterhenry's  done 
pretty  good  here.  Well,  he's  a  worker  all  right." 

They  admired  the  neat,  square  fields  of  oats  and  corn,  the  high, 
rolling  pasture  dotted  with  white  clover,  a  few  wild  plum-trees  set 
slanting,  delicate  and  lonely,  here  and  there. 

'Yes,  sir,  he's  got  a  nice  farm." 

II:    THE  KAETTERHENRYS 

August  Kaetterhenry  had  not  always  had  a  farm  like  this.  He  had 
had  to  work  for  what  he  had  got,  like  most  of  the  people  in  that 
country.  He  hadn't  got  prosperous  by  wishing.  There  were  plenty 
of  people  who  could  remember  when  he  first  came  into  the  Rich- 
land neighbourhood.  Along  about  the  early  eighties  or  late  seventies 
it  must  have  been,  because  he  had  worked  for  Henry  Baumgartner, 
and  it  was  in  1884  or  "somewheres  around"  that  the  Baumgartners 
had  moved  into  town.  He  came  from  Turkey  Creek,  where  there 
were  still  "a  whole  raft  of  those  Kaetterhenrys."  August  was  one  of 
old  Casper  Kaetterhenry's  boys. 

Turkey  Creek  was  a  little  backwoods  town  about  fifteen  miles 
north  of  Richland,  up  in  the  timber.  It  still  had  no  railroad  and  was 
"years  behind  the  times,"  but  some  of  the  farmers  around  there  had 
money,  if  they  only  cared  to  spend  it.  It  was  a  good  trading-centre. 
There  was  a  large  German  settlement  around  Turkey  Creek,  more 
Germans  than  in  the  country  near  Richland,  which  had  a  good  many 
settlers  from  Somerset,  in  England.  Turkey  Creek  had  had  Scotch 
and  Yankee  settlers  in  the  first  place,  trappers  and  woodsmen;  but 


238  RUTH  SUCKOW 

the  Germans  coming  in  to  farm  had  crowded  these  people  out.  They 
were  a  slow,  hard-headed  set,  those  Turkey  Creek  Germans,  but 
they  were  better  than  the  timbermen,  who  had  had,  as  old  men  who 
knew  that  country  liked  to  tell,  "some  pretty  rough  characters  among 
them."  The  Germans  were  hard-working,  money-savers,  and  they 
had  come  to  make  homes  for  themselves. 

It  was  Henry  Baumgartner  who  had  brought  them  there  in  the 
first  place— old  Henry  Baumgartner.  He  was  gone  now,  but  he  had 
been  "quite  a  character"  in  his  day.  He  was  a  Prussian  who  had 
come  to  this  country  when  he  was  only  a  boy.  He  was  said  to  have 
worked  at  one  of  the  forges  in  Pennsylvania.  There  was  a  story  of 
how,  when  he  had  been  working  there,  he  had  been  converted  to 
German  Methodism.  He  had  come  out  to  Iowa  in  a  very  early  day 
and  had  bought  up  large  tracts  of  timber-land  when  it  was  selling 
for  almost  nothing.  Later,  in  the  interests  of  both  riches  and  religion, 
which  the  old  man  had  always  shrewdly  worked  together,  he  had 
sent  back  to  Prussia  and  got  a  dozen  families  to  come  and  settle  on 
his  land,  promising  them  help  in  getting  started  on  the  condition 
that  they  should  all  become  German  Methodists.  He  had  been  afraid 
that  the  German  Catholics,  who  had  a  settlement  over  in  the  hills 
at  Holy  Cross,  would  "get  a  hold"  in  the  Turkey  timber.  That  was 
the  way  that  large  German  Methodist  community  had  first  started. 
Other  Germans  had  begun  coming  in  until  the  region  was  full  of 
them.  Most  of  them  had  been  Lutherans  in  the  old  country,  but 
Henry  Baumgartner  had  been  careful  to  see  that  there  was  no 
Lutheran  church  started  here. 

It  was  a  hilly  region,  timber-  and  bottom-land.  The  people  had 
lived  primitively  there;  many  of  them  did  still.  There  were  still  a 
few  of  the  old  log  cabins  to  be  seen  in  isolated  places,  down  on  the 
Turkey  Bottom.  In  those  early  days  they  had  all  lived  in  log  cabins. 
The  old-timers  could  remember  well  when  the  first  frame-house  in 
the  country  had  gone  up  on  old  Herman  Klaus's  farm.  Turkey  Creek 
had  been  a  wild  little  timber  town  with  a  few  wooden  stores  and 
houses,  after  the  first  old  log  buildings  had  gone  down,  and  the 
town  hall,  of  the  native  yellow  limestone,  that  was  standing  yet  at 
the  end  of  the  business  street,  and  where  now  the  community  held 
the  harvest-home  supper  and  the  young  people  had  dances. 

The  Kaetterhenrys  had  lived  in  one  of  those  log  houses  on  the 
same  land  where  one  of  them,  a  half-brother  of  August's,  was  living 
now— the  farm  about  three  miles  straight  north  of  Turkey  Creek, 
the  one  with  the  small  white  house  and  the  patch  of  timber.  It  had 
all  been  timber  in  those  days. 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  239 

The  Kaetterhenrys  had  not  been  among  those  whom  Henry  Baum- 
gartner  had  brought  to  this  region— they  came  a  few  years  later— 
but  their  history  was  not  very  different  from  that  of  many  families 
in  the  community.  They  came  to  this  country  from  Germany  in 
about  1849  or  1850,  Casper  and  his  wife  and  two  children,  and  his 
brother  Adolph  and  his  wife.  Casper's  wife's  brother,  Johann  Rausch, 
had  preceded  them.  He  was  one  of  those  who  had  drifted  over  into 
Iowa  from  Ohio  or  New  York,  coming  because  others  were  coming, 
because  everyone  was  talking  about  the  West.  He  had  written  back 
to  his  relatives  in  the  old  country,  full  of  enthusiasm,  praising  the 
country  and  telling  how  fine  the  land  was,  until  he  had  got  Casper 
and  Adolph  persuaded  to  come. 

They  landed  at  New  Orleans  after  a  voyage  of  eight  weeks  and 
three  days  in  a  sailing-vessel,  and  from  there  took  boat  up  the 
Mississippi  to  St.  Louis.  They  spent  the  winter  there,  waiting  for 
spring.  The  older  child,  Joseph,  died  of  cholera  while  they  were 
there.  Early  the  next  March,  as  soon  as  the  river  was  open,  they 
again  took  boat,  and  went  up  as  far  as  north-eastern  Iowa.  They 
bought  oxen  and  farm  implements  at  Guttenberg,  the  little  river 
town  where  they  landed,  and  from  there  went  straight  over  to  Tur- 
key Creek  to  join  Johann.  He  soon  after  pulled  out  again  and  went 
on  West,  but  Casper  and  Adolph  took  up  land  near  each  other. 
Casper  started  right  in  clearing  his  land  and  putting  up  the  log 
cabin  in  which  the  family  lived  until  the  children  were  good-sized. 

The  cabin  had  one  room  at  first;  later,  two  more  were  added. 
They  did  their  cooking,  eating,  sleeping  all  in  there.  There  the  chil- 
dren were  born,  one  after  another— Mina,  Kurt,  Mary,  August, 
Sophie,  Heinie,  Ferdinand.  They  had  had  only  Lena  when  they 
came  there,  since  little  Joseph  had  died  on  the  way.  They  lived  all 
crowded  into  that  little  cabin,  four  children  sleeping  packed  into 
a  dusty  feather-bed  over  which  the  covers  were  hastily  drawn  in  the 
day-time.  Feather-beds  and  pillows  and  a  little  black  tea-pot  with 
raised  blue  flowers  were  all  that  the  Kaetterhenrys  had  brought  with 
them  from  the  old  country.  They  had  had  none  of  the  "comforts 
of  life"  to  begin  with.  They  had  saved  up  just  money  enough  to  pay 
for  the  journey  and  their  first  crude  farming-necessities.  They  went 
through  all  the  hardships  of  pioneer  life,  the  clearing  of  the  land, 
storms  that  killed  their  cattle  and  flooded  their  fields,  the  terrible 
blizzards  of  those  days.  Another  child— Mary— died,  and  was  buried 
in  a  little  grave  that  Casper  himself  dug  in  a  corner  of  their  land. 
They  had  to  work,  all  of  them,  father,  mother,  girls,  and  boys,  just  as 
soon  as  they  could  get  into  the  field. 


24o  RUTH  SUCKOW 

But  they  were  a  sturdy  tribe:  they  could  stand  things.  Casper 
Kaetterhenry  had  been  a  farm-labourer  in  the  old  country.  He  had 
always  worked  hard,  and  so  had  his  wife.  But  now  that  he  was  work- 
ing for  himself  instead  of  for  some  wealthy  Pomeranian  landowner 
who  would  get  all  the  profits,  he  was  willing  to  work.  Now  he  was 
going  to  make  a  landowner  of  himself. 

He  brought  up  his  children  to  know  very  little  but  work.  The 
mother  had  little  time  for  them.  In  the  intervals  of  bearing  them 
she  had  to  work  in  the  field.  So  did  Lena,  the  oldest  girl.  Mina  gave 
them  all  the  care  that  was  given.  They  always  cared  more  for  this 
sister,  in  a  way,  than  for  any  other  human  being— Mina,  a  thick- 
faced,  heavy,  "Dutchy"-looking  girl,  slow  and  melancholy  and  con- 
scientious and  kind.  She  afterwards  married  Rudy  Nisson,  and  had 
a  hard  time  of  it. 

The  older  children  had  no  chance  for  any  schooling,  but  a  school- 
house  was  built  on  the  outskirts  of  Turkey  Creek  to  which  the 
younger  ones  went  off  and  on,  as  they  could  be  spared,  in  the  winter. 
That  Turkey  Creek  school!  It  had  wooden  benches  and  a  great  stove 
on  which  one  of  the  teachers— ''Old  Man  Bartlett"  they  called  him— 
kept  hickory  switches  drying.  Teachers  were  as  irregular  as  pupils. 
Old  Man  Bartlett  stayed  only  one  week.  He  had  already  "licked"  all 
the  boys  once  or  twice  over,  and  he  celebrated  his  last  day  by  whip- 
ping every  one  of  the  girls.  The  next  Monday  he  did  not  appear. 
He  had  "skipped  the  country."  He  had  come  to  Turkey  Creek  from 
no  one  knew  where,  with  only  the  clothes  on  his  back,  and  no  one 
ever  learned  what  had  become  of  him.  There  were  a  few  attempts 
made  to  hold  a  German  school,  but  they  did  not  come  to  much.  But 
it  seemed  to  Casper  Kaetterhenry  that  his  children  were  in  clover. 
He  himself  could  do  little  more  than  write  his  own  name.  Even 
some  of  the  other  farmers  about  there  said  that  Casper  wasn't  easy 
on  his  children.  He  expected  them  to  work  and  that  he  should  get  all 
the  benefit  of  their  work.  As  soon  as  they  were  old  enough  to  do  any- 
thing, they  had  to  help  on  the  farm.  That  was  the  way  to  save  up 
money.  Casper  kept  them  at  it  every  minute. 

As  soon  as  August  was  eleven  he  began  "hiring  out"  to  some  of 
the  neighbouring  farmers.  He  was  a  good  worker.  All  of  the  Kaetter- 
henrys  were.  "Ach,  those  Kaetterhenrys!"  people  would  sometimes 
say,  meaning  that  they  were  stubborn  and  silent  and  dumm.  And 
of  Kurt  or  August  or  Heinie,  "Ja,  he's  a  Kaetterhenry  all  right." 
They  were  Pomeranians.  "Pummers"  people  called  them,  making 
fun  of  some  of  their  ways  and  the  queer  Low  Dutch  expressions  that 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  241 

old  Casper  used.  But  August  was  good  help.  He  could  do  nearly 
everything  about  a  farm  that  a  man  could. 

He  worked  for  all  kinds  of  people.  For  Schumacher  once,  and 
for  Grobaty,  a  fat,  black-bearded  old  German  who  beat  his  wife  and 
his  horses  and  was  converted  regularly  at  every  camp-meeting.  Gro- 
baty's  father  lived  with  him.  He  had  an  immense  white  beard  that 
reached  below  his  waist.  Usually  he  kept  it  buttoned  inside  his  coat, 
but  sometimes  August  would  see  him  lift  it  out  and  fondly  stroke 
and  caress  it.  August  tried  blacksmithing  for  a  while,  too,  but  he 
liked  farming  better.  He  would  go  back  to  school  in  the  winter- 
time, but  when  he  was  fourteen  he  quit  for  good. 

By  the  time  that  he  was  fifteen  he  was  virtually  on  his  own  re- 
sources. He  did  not  get  on  well  with  his  father.  August  had  a  temper 
and  he  didn't  stand  the  old  man's  tyranny.  August  was  the  pick  of 
the  family,  most  people  thought.  He  was  not  so  slow  as  the  rest  of 
them,  although  he  had  all  of  the  Kaetterhenry  stubbornness.  There 
was  more  of  the  mother  in  him.  There  was  a  different  strain  in  the 
Rausches.  They  were  more  restless,  more  ambitious.  People  said 
that  Mrs.  Kaetterhenry  might  have  liked  to  have  things  a  little  dif- 
ferent from  what  they  were  at  home  if  it  hadn't  been  for  "him."  She 
was  not  a  "Pummer."  August  was  more  like  her.  He  looked  like  her, 
too,  with  a  fresh-coloured  skin  and  blue  eyes  showing  temper  in  the 
way  that  they  were  set.  Sophie,  too,  was  "a  Rausch." 

It  was  mostly  work  in  those  days,  but  there  were  other  things. 
Weddings  were  made  much  of  in  that  community.  Sometimes  the 
celebration  lasted  three  days,  like  Hans  Nisson's  wedding,  at  the  end 
of  which  most  of  the  men  were  laid  out  on  the  straw  in  the  barn, 
dead  drunk.  There  was  still  more  intoxication  at  the  camp-meet- 
ings which  were  held  in  the  timber  by  travelling  evangelists.  Peo- 
ple drove  to  them  from  miles  around,  camping  out  in  the  woods 
and  attending  the  meetings.  They  were  times  of  religious  debauch. 
The  shouting  and  singing  and  weeping,  the  general  wallow  of  emo- 
tionalism, gave  an  outlet  after  all  the  hard,  grinding  work.  August 
"went  forward"  at  one  of  these  meetings,  along  with  the  other  young 
men,  stirred  and  yet  shamefaced  at  the  same  time.  He  believed  that 
he  was  "converted." 

Most  of  the  life  of  the  community  centred  about  the  German 
Methodist  church  out  in  the  country,  which  Henry  Baumgartner 
helped  them  to  build.  It  was  a  plain  white  frame-building,  bleak 
and  small,  a  long  hitching-board  in  front  of  it,  and  behind  it  the 
sheds  for  the  teams  and  the  two  tiny  outhouses  all  standing  stark  on 


242  RUTH  SUCKOW 

a  great  clearing.  Church  was  held  in  the  afternoon.  The  farmers 
drove  there  in  lumber-wagons,  tying  their  horses  to  the  long  hitch- 
ing-board,  or  in  bad  weather  putting  them  in  the  sheds.  They  stood 
about  on  the  church-steps,  talking,  the  men  together  and  the  women 
in  another  group,  until  the  preacher  drove  up.  Then  they  all 
marched  solemnly  into  the  church.  The  congregation  sat,  the  men 
and  boys  on  one  side,  the  women  and  girls  on  the  other,  facing  the 
pulpit— a  silent,  stolid  congregation,  moving  slowly  and  heavily  in 
dark  garments,  creaking  awkwardly  as  they  turned  to  kneel  on  the 
hard  wooden  floor,  some  of  the  men  poised  precariously  on  their 
haunches,  muttering  the  Lord's  Prayer  together  in  a  guttural  Ger- 
man that  was  loud  in  the  silent  country  church,  the  women's  voices 
a  husky  murmur  above  the  deep,  shamed  rumble  of  the  men's. 

They  had  no  regular  pastor.  Sometimes  Wilhelm  Stille,  a  farmer 
from  over  near  Richland  who  "did  some  preaching,"  came.  He  was 
a  thin,  fervent  man,  with  a  greyish  beard  and  long  hair,  who  leaned 
over  the  pulpit  and  spoke  in  a  high,  thin  voice,  his  deep-set  brown 
eyes  burning  with  a  kind  of  mystic  ardour.  Sometimes  they  had  one 
of  the  travelling  preachers,  old  exhorters,  who  wept  and  paced  the 
platform  as  they  prayed  for  sinners,  and  pounded  the  Bible. 

After  the  service  the  people  went  outside  and  talked  a  little  be- 
fore they  drove  home.  It  was  for  this  that  the  young  men  came. 
They  stood  about  in  abashed  Sunday-constrained  groups,  pretending 
to  talk  to  one  another,  but  aware  of  the  girls,  whose  eyes  were  aware 
of  them;  in  their  thick,  dark  best  clothes  that  made  their  skin  look 
leather-brown,  their  brown  and  black  felt  hats,  their  feet  clumping 
awkwardly  in  stiff  Sunday  shoes.  This  group  of  boys  and  young  men 
was  the  last  to  disperse.  The  older  people  talked  in  German,  about 
the  weather  and  the  crops.  Then  the  men  went  out  to  get  the  teams 
hitched  up  to  drive  home. 

August  stayed  around  Turkey  Creek  until  his  mother  died.  She 
had  been  ailing  for  years,  had  bought  "herb"  medicine  and  liver 
pills  and  tonics  from  the  medicine-man  who  drove  around  to  the 
different  farms  with  a  horse  and  wagon  selling  remedies.  No  one 
had  known  what  it  was  except  stomach  trouble,  or  had  thought 
much  about  it.  She  had  kept  on  working  all  the  time.  But  finally, 
when  she  was  almost  confined  to  her  bed,  could  digest  virtually  noth- 
ing, and  could  hardly  drag  herself  into  the  kitchen  to  see  how  Mina, 
whom  they  had  called  in,  was  doing  the  work,  Casper  thought  it 
might  be  time  to  drive  into  town  and  have  the  doctor  come  out  with 
him.  Of  course  it  was  too  late  then.  Otherwise  it  would  have  been 
foolish  for  the  doctor  to  be  called.  He  too  muttered  something  about 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  243 

stomach  trouble,  but  the  neighbour  women  who  came  in  whispered 
"cancer"  to  each  other.  The  children  were  sent  for,  and  stood  in 
awkward  panic  about  the  old  walnut  bed  where  their  mother  lay 
"wasted  to  a  shadow,"  as  the  neighbour  women  said.  The  children 
had  not  actually  realized  that  there  was  anything  the  matter  with 
her  until  now.  She  died,  and  was  buried  in  the  little  Turkey  Creek 
cemetery  near  the  German  church. 

"Ach,  that  old  Kaetterhenry!"  the  women  said.  "He  worked  her 
to  death,  and  then  what  did  she  have!"  She  had  not  lived  to  enjoy 
anything  from  all  her  toil.  They  had  been  for  a  few  years  in  the  new 
frame-house,  but  she  had  had  to  do  things  as  she  had  always  done 
them  before. 

It  was  expected  that  Mina  would  stay  on  at  home  and  keep  house 
for  the  old  man,  at  least  until  Heinie,  who  worked  on  the  home 
place,  brought  home  a  wife;  Rudy  Nisson  was  drinking  and  could 
not  be  counted  upon  to  support  Mina.  But  this  was  not  at  all  what 
old  Casper  had  in  mind.  A  few  weeks  after  his  wife  had  died,  he 
offered  ten  dollars  to  anyone  who  could  find  him  a  new  wife;  and 
astonishingly,  gross  and  hard-fisted  and  stingy  as  he  was,  a  fat  old 
man  with  a  rough  beard  who  went  around  in  his  bare  feet,  a  tolera- 
bly fair-looking  young  woman  was  found  for  him.  He  had  never 
spent  anything  and  he  owned  a  good  farm  now.  Poor  Mina  knew 
nothing  of  all  this  until  he  brought  the  new  wife  home;  then  she 
had  to  leave.  Rudy  was  off  in  the  next  town,  supposed  to  be  working, 
and  she  had  nowhere  to  go  and  no  money  to  keep  her.  She  had  to 
stay  at  Sophie's  until  Sophie's  husband  could  get  Rudy  to  come 
back  and  find  some  sort  of  home  for  her.  The  new  mistress  proved  to 
be  very  different  from  the  old  one:  she  made  the  old  man  Kaetter- 
henry stand  around— build  an  addition  to  the  house,  get  her  some 
decent  furniture.  You  never  caught  her  working  in  the  fields! 

The  children  were  furious.  They  talked  about  the  insult  to  their 
mother  and  the  injustice  to  Mina,  but  greed  was  at  the  bottom  of  it. 
This  woman  was  a  schemer;  they  could  see  that.  Sophie  declared 
that  she  looked  like  the  kind  of  woman  who  would  go  about  having 
children  right  away  and  beat  the  rest  of  them  out  of  what  was  theirs 
by  rights.  What  she  had  wanted  was  to  get  the  farm  left  to  her.  It 
made  them  all  angry  to  see  how  much  she  got  from  the  old  man 
while  they,  who  had  had  to  work  like  dogs  for  him  from  the  time 
they  were  babies,  got  nothing.  What  had  he  ever  done  for  them? 
It  broke  up  the  family  and  started  a  feud  that  still  lasted  after  the 
old  man  Kaetterhenry  had  died  and  one  of  his  sons  by  the  second 
wife  had  the  farm.  But  she  did  not  get  everything.  Schemer  that  she 


244  RUTH  SUCKOW 

was,  she  could  never  get  old  Casper  to  make  a  will,  and  the  children 
came  in  for  some  of  his  property. 

Most  of  the  Kaetterhenry  children  married  young  and  settled 
down  to  farming  right  where  they  were.  August  was  the  only  one  who 
did  not.  Sophie  had  married  a  Klaus,  and  her  brother-in-law,  young 
Herman  Klaus,  had  gone  up  to  Richland  to  work.  August  liked 
what  he  heard  of  the  Richland  neighbourhood.  He  wanted  to  get 
into  a  better  community;  he  thought  he  could  earn  more  up  there. 
He  went  there  and  got  a  job  with  a  wood-choppers'  gang  in  the 
winter,  and  the  next  spring  he  hired  out  to  Henry  Baumgartner. 

This  old  Henry  Baumgartner  was  harder  to  work  for  than  any 
man  in  that  part  of  the  country.  August  found  that  out  soon  enough. 
It  was  not  for  nothing  that  he  was  as  rich  as  he  was.  He  was  worth 
at  this  time  about  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  land  and  money, 
considered  rich  for  a  farmer  in  those  days,  but  no  one  would  ever 
have  guessed  it  from  the  way  that  the  family  lived.  The  old  lady 
Baumgartner  hoarded  the  bread  until  it  was  mouldy.  It  was  said 
that  she  was  still  wearing  the  same  clothes  in  which  she  had  come 
over  from  Germany.  It  was  not  until  they  moved  into  town  and  the 
children  got  hold  of  some  of  the  money  that  it  began  to  show.  Old 
Baumgartner  was  inconceivably  mean  in  petty  things.  August  re- 
membered about  Mrs.  Hooper,  a  widow  in  Richland  who  supported 
her  family  by  doing  washing.  She  wanted  a  little  straw  to  pack  about 
her  house  in  the  wintertime,  and  Henry  Baumgartner  promised  that 
he  would  bring  her  some  when  he  next  came  into  town.  Then  he 
charged  her  not  only  more  than  the  price  of  the  straw,  but  for  his 
time  and  for  the  hauling,  although  he  had  been  bringing  in  other 
things  at  the  same  time.  Plenty  of  farmers,  as  he  knew  very  well, 
would  have  been  glad  to  give  the  poor  woman  that  little  bit  of  straw 
for  nothing. 

Yet  he  had  his  big,  effusive  side.  August  had  seen  him  at  the 
camp-meetings  groaning  and  praying  and  exhorting,  tears  running 
down  the  side  of  his  fat  nose  and  soaking  into  his  beard.  He  was 
about  sixty  at  this  time,  short,  bulky,  with  a  thick,  square-cut  beard, 
a  broad  smooth  German  under  lip  that  showed  his  emotionalism, 
and  mean  little  eyes.  Afterwards,  when  he  moved  into  Richland  and 
joined  the  Methodist  church  there,  he  ran  the  church.  The  preach- 
ers looked  upon  him  with  fear  as  he  sat  short,  heavy,  belligerent  in 
the  front  pew— he  was  getting  deaf— giving  little  grunts  of  disap- 
proval or  breaking  out  into  sonorous  "Amens!"  following  the  emo- 
tional parts  of  the  sermon  with  a  running  comment  of  groans,  head- 
shakings,  tears.  A  terrible  figure,  with  his  big  head  and  square-cut, 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  245 

buchy  beard  showing  that  wet,  shining  lower  lip,  the  ominous  glare 
of  his  small  eyes.  He  was  sincere,  more  than  sincere,  in  all  this.  It 
was  life  to  him.  Plenty  of  people  hated  him,  but  they  spoke  of  him 
as  the  most  religious  man  around  there. 

If  August  managed  to  stick  at  the  Baumgartners',  he  would  be 
the  first  hired  man  who  had  ever  done  so.  But  August  was  a  sticker. 
People  soon  found  that  out.  He  had  no  intention  of  leaving  until 
he  was  ready  to  go.  He  went  stolidly  about  his  work  from  four 
o'clock  in  the  morning  until  nine  at  night.  He  knew  what  he  was 
after.  All  the  time  he  was  saving  part  of  his  wages,  putting  some 
away.  He  did  not  intend  to  let  old  Henry  Baumgartner's  meanness 
drive  him  out  until  he  had  saved  enough  to  start  in  farming  for 
himself.  It  was  that  for  which  he  was  working. 

Ill:    EMMA  STILLE 

August  liked  the  new  community.  He  saw  that  in  some  respects  it 
was  ahead  of  Turkey  Creek.  For  one  thing,  there  was  a  railroad,  a 
main  line  of  the  Illinois  Central  that  connected  Richland  directly 
with  Chicago.  It  would  be  easier  to  market  crops  here.  There  would 
not  be  so  much  hauling  to  do.  It  was  only  eleven  miles  from  "Wap- 
sie,"  the  county  seat,  and  that  was  an  advantage.  And,  then,  he  liked 
the  looks  of  the  country.  There  was  not  so  much  timber,  more 
prairieland;  and  after  all  the  clearing  that  he  had  had  to  do  about 
Turkey  Creek,  August  was  not  fond  of  timber.  He  said  little,  but 
he  made  up  his  mind  before  very  long  that  he  wanted  to  get  hold 
of  some  land  about  here  and  settle  down.  Someone  would  be  want- 
ing to  sell  and  move  out.  He  had  been  saving  ever  since  he  started 
working  for  other  people  and  was  putting  away  some  all  the  time. 
When  he  saw  a  good  piece  of  land  he  was  going  to  try  to  get  it,  pay- 
ing for  it  gradually  as  he  could.  And  he  had  his  eyes  open  for  some 
girl  who  looked  as  if  she  would  make  him  a  good  wife. 

There  were  not  so  many  Germans  here  as  around  Turkey  Creek, 
and  there  were  some  Lutherans  among  them,  so  that  they  had  no 
German  Methodist  church.  Those  who  were  close  enough  drove 
over  to  the  Turkey  Creek  church  when  the  weather  was  good.  Most 
of  them  began  "going  in  town."  They  drove  to  the  Richland  church, 
four  of  them  together,  two  girls  and  two  boys,  in  a  two-seated  buggy. 
The  old  people  did  not  care  to  go  there  because  the  services  were 
in  English.  They  thought  that  it  meant,  too,  that  the  young  people 
were  getting  away  from  them. 

There  were  more  good  times  not  connected  with  the  church  than 


246  RUTH  SUCKOW 

there  had  been  at  Turkey  Creek.  Socials  at  the  country  schools,  bob- 
ridesj  and  big  country  parties  where  they  played  the  old  country 
games  and  kissing-games  until  the  whole  thing  ended  in  a  general 
"spooning,"  with  the  lights  out.  August  was  bashful.  Herman  Klaus 
urged  him  to  get  a  girl  and  come  on.  But  he  did  not  go  to  these 
parties  very  much  until  he  began  keeping  company  with  Emma  Stille. 

That  was  in  the  first  summer  after  he  came  to  Richland.  Henry 
Baumgartner  let  him  go  over  to  help  the  Stilles  at  threshing-time. 
The  Stille  boys  had  come  over  to  help  the  Baumgartners.  The  Stille 
farm  wTas  about  two  miles  from  where  August  was  working. 

Old  Wilhelm  Stille  was  the  one  who  used  to  preach  in  the  Turkey 
Creek  church.  He  was  a  gentle,  dreamy  kind  of  man.  His  threshing 
was  always  left  until  near  the  last.  But  old  lady  Stille  saw  to  it  that 
he  did  not  get  too  far  behind.  People  spoke  of  her  as  "someone  to 
watch  out  for."  She  was  short,  squat,  heavy.  She  had  a  round,  wrin- 
kled, crafty  face  with  narrow,  suspicious  eyes.  She  looked  as  if  she 
might  just  have  come  from  the  old  country.  She  parted  her  hair 
smoothly  in  the  middle  and  wore  round  ear-rings.  When  they  drove 
into  town,  she  never  wore  a  hat,  but  a  dark  scarf  tied  over  her  head. 
Her  dark,  thick,  shapeless  clothes,  her  shawls,  her  scarf,  her  soft  felt 
slippers,  all  added  to  the  feeling  of  craft,  of  slyness,  that  she  gave. 
People  were  afraid  of  her.  She  was  stingy,  too,  as  stingy  as  the  Baum- 
gartners; but  the  girls  saw  to  it  that  the  threshers  were  well  fed. 

There  were  two  of  the  Stille  girls  at  home,  Emma  and  Mollie. 
Herman  Klaus  liked  Mollie  Stille  pretty  well.  Everyone  liked  the 
Stille  girls.  They  said  that  they  were  just  nice  girls,  not  so  queer  as 
their  father  and  without  their  mother's  meanness.  They  waited  on 
the  table  when  the  threshers  came.  The  men  all  knew  them  and 
joked  with  them.  August  had  nothing  to  say,  but  he  knew  every 
move  that  Emma  Stille  made  as  she  hurried  around  the  long  table 
bringing  in  more  stewed  chicken  and  coffee.  She  was  not  very  large, 
but  she  looked  like  a  good  worker.  Her  black  hair  curled  a  little 
from  the  heat,  and  her  face  was  flushed.  Her  lips,  full  German  lips, 
curved,  dark  red,  were  slightly  parted.  The  men  teased  her.  "Hurry 
up  there,  Emma!  Emma,  you're  too  slow!"  August  sat  eating  indus- 
triously, without  looking  up;  but  when  Emma  came  near  him  and 
put  out  her  hand  to  take  his  coffee-cup,  he  caught  the  faint  scent  of 
heat  that  came  from  her,  saw  the  little  beads  of  perspiration  about 
the  roots  of  her  shiny  black  hair. 

He  liked  her.  He  wondered  if  she  was  pretty  strong.  She  seemed 
to  be  able  to  get  through  with  a  lot  of  work.  She  did  not  look  in  the 
least  like  her  mother.  She  was  a  giggler;  she  and  Mollie  both  could 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  247 

seem  to  giggle  by  the  hour,  but  just  the  same  she  was  pretty  sensible. 
She  taught  country  school  in  the  Benning  Township  school-house, 
but  she  knew  how  to  wait  on  threshers. 

The  old  man  Stille  was  not  badly  off  despite  his  preaching.  He 
had  come  out  in  an  early  day  and  had  managed— he  and  the  boys 
together— to  get  hold  of  a  good  deal  of  land.  He  had  helped  the  boys, 
and  he  ought  to  be  able  to  help  the  girls  a  little,  too.  The  Stille 
girls  would  have  had  more  beaus  if  the  young  men  had  not  been 
afraid  to  get  mixed  up  with  that  old  lady.  She  was  down  on  all  her 
daughters-in-law.  That  would  not  stop  August.  He'd  like  to  see  any 
old  woman  that  could  bother  him  very  much. 

The  threshers  were  at  the  Stilles'  two  days.  It  was  in  early  Septem- 
ber, dry,  burning  weather,  when  the  bright  new  evergreens  in  the 
grove  at  the  north  of  the  house  stood  motionless  and  pointed  against 
the  blue  sky.  The  men  worked  with  their  old  horse-power  thresher 
out  in  the  fields,  where  the  stubble  was  bright  and  harsh  under  their 
feet  and  the  sun  blazed  on  the  yellow-gold  straw-stacks  that  piled  up 
behind  the  machine.  Emma  and  Mollie  came  out  once  to  see  them 
work.  Some  of  the  men  stopped  for  a  moment  and  "joshed"  with 
them,  offered  to  let  them  run  the  machine,  told  them  they  ought  to 
be  out  here  helping  thresh  instead  of  sitting  around  the  house  doing 
nothing. 

"Ja,  doing  nothing!"  the  girls  scoffed.  "I  guess  we'd  see  what 
would  happen  if  you  didn't  get  any  supper  to-night." 

"Oh,  do  you  get  supper?"  Herman  Klaus  said.  "I  thought  your 
ma  did  that,  and  you  girls  set  around  looking  nice."  They  struck  out 
at  him  until  he  backed  off  from  them,  holding  up  his  hands  and 
shouting,  "Hey!  Hey!  I  gotta  work!  Owgust,  come  here  once  and 
help!"  ' 

August  was  too  bashful  yet  to  join  in.  He  pretended  not  to  notice, 
but  he  saw  the  girls,  standing  there  leaning  against  each  other,  half 
closing  their  eyes  against  the  sun,  which  was  bright  on  their  black 
hair  and  flushed  cheeks,  the  blue  dresses  against  the  blazing  gold  of 
the  straw-stacks  and  the  stubble  out  under  the  blue  prairie-sky.  The 
chaff  filled  the  air,  and  the  men  turned  to  grin  with  a  flash  of  white 
teeth  in  their  blackened  faces.  That  night  August  "cleaned  up"  very 
carefully,  although  usually  he  didn't  think  it  was  much  use  until 
threshing  was  over. 

After  that,  Herman  began  to  tease  him  about  Emma  Stille.  August 
sat  next  to  her  at  a  bob-ride  one  night.  Either  she  managed  it,  or  he 
did,  or  Herman  and  Mollie,  he  didn't  know  just  who.  She  had  come 
with  Herman  and  Mollie  and  didn't  have  any  fellow  of  her  own 


248  RUTH  SUCKOW 

that  night.  The  moon  was  not  up  yet.  It  was  dark  except  for  the  dim, 
ghostly  white  glare  of  the  snow.  The  fur  of  the  buffalo  robes  was 
cold  to  the  touch,  but  underneath  them  it  was  all  warm,  dark,  secret, 
and  intimate.  He  could  feel  Emma  beside  him,  her  arm  against  his, 
her  feet  close  to  his  down  in  the  warm  straw  in  the  bottom  of  the 
bob,  her  frosty  breath.  When  the  bob-runners  struck  a  rut,  Emma 
fell  over  against  August.  He  steadied  her  and  said,  "Whoa,  there!" 
Then  he  kept  his  arm  around  her  the  rest  of  the  way  until  they 
stopped  at  the  Stille  farm,  and  she  struggled  out  of  the  warm  nest 
of  straw  under  the  robes.  "Hey,  August,  ain't  you  cold?  Lost  your 
girl?"  the  rest  all  shouted. 

He  had  never  gone  to  the  box  socials,  always  grunting  shame- 
facedly, "Ach,  I  don't  want  to  go  there;  I  ain't  got  no  girl  to  take," 
when  Herman  urged  him  to  go.  But  he  went  to  one  that  winter,  out 
in  the  Benning  Township  school-house  where  Emma  taught.  Mollie 
told  Herman  which  was  Emma's  box,  and  Herman  told  August— a 
big  shoe-box  covered  with  ruffled  red  crepe-paper  and  a  huge  green 
bow.  When  it  was  put  up  for  auction,  August  turned  as  red  as  the 
box.  Martin  Graettinger,  a  young  fellow  from  Benning  Township, 
was  bidding  for  it.  Now  that  he  had  started,  August  was  doggedly 
determined  to  let  no  one  get  ahead  of  him,  and  although  he  had  no 
idea  of  paying  so  much,  and  it  made  him  squirm,  he  got  the  box  for 
three  dollars  and  sixty  cents.  He  and  Emma  and  Mollie  and  Herman 
ate  together  in  a  corner  of  the  room,  which  they  barricaded  with 
chairs,  the  girls  giggling  and  Herman  teasing  them,  August  sitting 
red  and  silent,  but  happy.  People  thought  that  he  and  Emma  would 
"go  together"  now. 

But  August  was  slow  to  get  started.  He  did  not  take  Emma  any- 
where until  the  next  summer.  He  was  cautious,  and,  besides,  he  had  to 
save  his  money.  Then  he  and  Herman  decided  to  ask  the  two  Stille 
girls  to  go  to  the  Fourth  of  July  celebration  at  Richland  Grove. 

They  started  early  and  called  at  the  Stille  place  for  the  girls.  They 
had  hired  a  team.  They  wore  their  best  dark,  thick  suits,  which  made 
their  hands  and  necks  look  browner.  The  girls  wore  striped  summer 
dresses  with  tight  basques,  and  Mollie  had  fastened  a  row  of  "spit- 
curls"  across  her  forehead.  August  did  the  driving.  Emma  sat  on  the 
front  seat  beside  him,  and  Herman  and  Mollie  were  "cutting  up" 
in  the  back  seat,  Herman  shouting,  "Now,  Emma,  you  make  that 
Owgust  act  decent  up  there  in  front,  where  I  can't  look  after  him." 

"You  better  act  decent  yourself,"  Emma  retorted.  August  blushed 
furiously. 

The  big  wooden  gate  of  the  grove  was  propped  open.  "This  way, 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  249 

boys!"  a  man  shouted  jovially.  They  drove  in  slowly  over  the  fresh 
wheel-marks  that  had  smoothed  down  the  long  green  grass  and 
looked  around  for  a  place  to  tie.  The  buggy-wheels  scraped  over  a 
stump  half  hidden  in  the  grass,  lifting  up  the  buggy  on  one  side  and 
making  the  girls  squeal.  They  stopped.  No  one  seemed  to  know  just 
what  to  do. 

"Well,  might  as  well  get  out,"  Herman  said.  "What  you  girls  sit- 
ting in  here  for?"  The  girls  stood  aside  while  the  boys  staked  out 
the  horses.  Then  they  all  wandered  off  together,  not  knowing  just 
what  to  do  now  that  they  were  here.  There  were  bunches  of  girls 
going  around  together,  children  darting  off  and  being  hauled  back, 
women  shrieking,  "Come  here,  Mister!  You  don't  get  away  yet.  Come 
back  here  and  fix  this  swing." 

The  grove  had  been  well  cleared  of  underbrush,  and  there  were 
open  spaces  through  which  the  sun  shone  golden-green.  There  were 
bur-oaks  in  clumps,  larger  oaks  standing  apart,  full-leaved,  casting  a 
gracious  shade.  The  ground  lay  in  smooth,  rounded  slopes  with  long 
fine  green  grass  that  was  full  of  little  whirring  things.  It  was  sprin- 
kled with  wild  gooseberry  bushes,  bitter-smelling  white  yarrow, 
clumps  of  catnip  filled  with  black-bodied  wild  bees.  The  creek  was 
dry,  a  narrow  stream  bed  filled  with  hot  white  sand.  Some  children 
were  running  along  it  with  bare  feet. 

There  were  swings  put  up,  games  going  on.  Rigs  were  standing  all 
about:  wagons,  buggies  of  all  descriptions,  a  carryall.  Horses,  big 
farm  horses,  were  staked  out  with  ropes.  They  would  begin  to  eat 
the  bark  off  the  trees,  and  then  the  men  would  have  to  run  up  and  tie 
them  somewhere  else.  There  were  family  groups,  old  ladies  sitting 
on  cushions  or  in  buggies,  unattached  boys  going  about  hoping  to 
find  girls,  men  pitching  horseshoes.  The  four  young  people  were 
glad  when  it  was  time  for  the  program. 

The  speaker's  stand  was  built  of  fresh  new  planks,  with  a  resiny 
scent,  bound  around  with  red-white-and-blue  bunting.  There  was  an 
amphitheatre  of  planks  laid  across  low  saw-horses.  August  and  Her- 
man and  the  two  girls  stood  at  the  edge  of  the  crowd.  There  was  a 
smell  of  perspiring  people,  cloth,  starched  dresses,  planks.  Babies 
cried.  The  chorus  sang  patriotic  songs.  A  strong,  fierce-looking  girl 
went  pounding  to  the  front  of  the  platform  and  declaimed  "Barbara 
Frietchie"  in  a  loud,  coarse  voice.  When  she  came  to  "Dame  Barbara 
snatched  the  silken  scarf,"  she  caught  up  the  flag  and  waved  it  wildly. 
Some  people  clapped,  others  looked  half  gratified  and  half  foolish. 
The  chorus  sang  again,  "We're  tenting  to-night  on  the  old  camp 
ground."  Despite  harsh  untrained  voices,  there  was  something  touch- 


250  RUTH  SUCKOW 

ing  about  the  sad  cadences,  sung  there  in  the  open,  breezy  grove. 
State  Representative  Calkins,  from  "Wapsie,"  spoke.  There  was  a 
scraping  and  moving-about  when  he  first  came  forward,  and  then  a 
long  silence  before  he  began.  He  spoke  loudly,  but  it  was  hard  to 
hear  him.  The  breeze  seemed  to  carry  his  voice  away  from  all  except 
the  people  directly  in  front  of  him.  The  children  were  still  playing 
in  the  swings.  Young  people  who  did  not  care  about  speeches,  the  oak 
leaves  rustling,  the  horses,  the  whispering  on  the  outskirts  of  the 
audience,  drowned  the  speech.  Herman  and  Mollie  got  tired  of  it 
and  slipped  away.  August  and  Emma  felt  foolish  when  they  saw  that 
the  others  had  gone.  Emma's  brother,  Willie  Stille,  was  in  the  chorus, 
and  he  sat  up  there  grinning  at  them. 

They  sat  near  the  buggy  to  eat  their  lunch.  Emma  and  Mollie  had 
brought  a  huge  lunch  in  a  big  red  pasteboard  box.  The  table-cloth 
was  hunched  up  in  places  by  little  spears  and  bunches  of  grass.  But 
eating  seemed  to  dispel  their  awkwardness. 

After  dinner  the  boys  went  away  for  a  while  and  pitched  horse- 
shoes. The  girls  went  to  sleep,  and  awoke  with  hot,  shiny  faces.  They 
took  down  their  hair,  and  were  just  putting  it  up  again  when  the 
boys  came  back.  They  squealed.  The  boys  teased  Mollie  about  her 
spit-curls  until  she  got  angry  and  threw  them  away.  Herman  put 
them  on  and  pranced  around,  and  then  he  had  to  go  after  Mollie 
and  make  peace.  August  and  Emma  sat  down  on  the  buggy-robe  on 
the  grass.  August  took  off  his  heavy  felt  hat.  There  was  a  white  band 
of  flesh  that  shaded  into  red-brown  below  the  golden  roots  of  his 
hair.  The  oak  leaves  rustled  dreamily. 

August  and  Emma  wandered  off  together.  They  crossed  the  hot 
white  stream  bed  and  climbed  the  hill,  sat  down  in  the  shade  be- 
tween some  trees  and  gooseberry  bushes.  Emma  picked  some  of  the 
gooseberries  to  take  home,  and  August  helped  her  pull  off  the  woody 
little  hulls.  He  put  his  hand  over  hers  in  the  grass.  The  hand  quiv- 
ered, and  he  held  it  closer,  his  hard  brown  fingers  grasping  a  little 
higher  on  the  wrist.  There  was  an  exciting  incongruity  between  their 
halting  self-conscious  talk  and  the  warm,  thrilling  animal  intimacy 
of  their  hot,  moist  palms  in  the  long  fine  grass.  The  shouting  from 
the  races  down  on  the  level  ground  came  to  them  long-drawn-out  and 
dreamily  distant.  They  were  aware  of  the  little  green  things  that 
jumped  about  in  the  grass  and  of  the  heat  of  their  two  hands  on  the 
cool  earth  near  the  grass  roots. 

When  they  went  back,  Mollie  and  Herman  were  sitting  in  the 
buggy  "spooning." 

August  made  Herman  drive  home.  He  and  Emma  sat  in  the  back 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  251 

seat.  Herman  kept  saying,  "Why  are  you  two  so  quiet  back  there?" 

"Ach,  you  shut  up,  and  tend  to  your  driving."  August  put  his  arm 
around  Emma.  She  took  off  her  hat  and  put  her  head  against  his 
shoulder.  The  weeds  along  the  roadside  were  damp,  and  wet  night 
odours  and  mists  came  up  from  the  fields.  There  was  nothing  but  rid- 
ing, jolting  on  through  the  dusk,  the  horses'  hoofs  pounding  on  the 
hard  road,  the  buggy-wheels  scraping. 

After  that  August  and  Emma  "kept  company  right  along."  The  old 
lady  Stille  made  little  trouble,  for  she  wanted  her  girls  to  be  mar- 
ried. Wilhelm  Stille  promised  to  let  them  go  on  one  of  his  farms, 
the  one  between  Richland  and  "Wapsie,"  with  the  privilege  of  pay- 
ing for  it  gradually.  Emma  did  not  teach  country  school  the  next 
year,  but  stayed  at  home  getting  ready  to  be  married.  The  wedding 
would  be  as  soon  as  August  had  enough  saved  to  start  them  out  on 
the  farm. 

The  first  day  that  August  could  get  away  they  drove  into  "Wapsie." 
The  four  of  them  again,  in  the  Stilles'  two-seated  buggy,  August  and 
Emma  and  Herman  and  Mollie.  It  was  late  February,  just  before  the 
last  thaw.  The  road  to  "Wapsie"  was  a  winter  study  in  dull  black 
and  white.  The  snow,  which  had  an  opaque,  thick  look  under  the 
colourless  winter  sky,  drifted  down  the  black  earth  of  the  slopes;  the 
plum-trees  in  interlaced  masses  along  the  creek,  low,  spreading,  done 
in  smoky  black,  purple  tinging  the  massed  farther  trees  and  the 
bushes;  the  creek  half  under  thin  greyish  ice  cracked  and  broken 
down  in  places;  the  road  dead  black,  sifted  over  with  fine  snow.  The 
buggy  looked  small  on  that  great  expanse  of  land,  the  hoofs  of  the 
horses  on  the  hard  wintry  road  made  a  lonesome  sound. 

The  town  had  a  closed-up  winter  look.  The  girls  did  not  speak  as 
they  drove  along  the  wintry  street.  They  sat  small  and  subdued  in 
their  heavy  country  wraps  and  dark  knitted  hoods.  They  drove  to 
the  court-house.  The  two  boys  tramped  solemnly  into  the  old  brick 
building,  with  its  dusty  wooden  floors  and  brown  spittoons  and 
glimpses  of  littered  rooms,  with  shelves  stuck  full  of  records.  August 
got  the  licence  of  the  county  clerk,  a  little  crippled  man  with  one 
shoulder  higher  than  the  other. 

Then  they  drove  to  the  minister's  house. 

The  girls  got  out  of  the  buggy  and  stood  stiffly  on  the  board  side- 
walk while  the  boys  tied  the  team  to  a  wooden  hitching-post.  All 
four  went  solemnly  up  the  walk  to  the  house.  They  did  not  know 
whether  to  knock  or  to  open  the  storm-door.  No  one  heard  them  at 
first,  and  they  went  into  the  chilly,  bare  little  entry,  where  overshoes 
and  a  fibre  mat  were  piled,  until  August  finally  rang  the  bell. 


252  RUTH  SUCKOW 

"Ring  again  once,"  Emma  whispered. 

The  minister's  wife  came,  tall,  gaunt,  with  spectacles.  She  said  in 
a  businesslike  way: 

"Did  you  wish  to  see  Mr.  Taylor?  Step  inside." 

They  filed  silently  into  the  parlour.  They  sat  waiting,  the  girls 
clasping  their  hands  nervously,  staring  at  the  hard-coal  burner,  the 
lounge,  the  pink  sea-shell  on  the  stand. 

The  minister  came  in  with  hastily  brushed  hair.  They  sat  in 
frozen  embarrassment. 

"Is  there  anything  I  can  do  for  you?" 

August  cleared  his  throat  resolutely.  He  and  Herman  had  been 
turning  their  caps  on  their  knees,  with  hands  red  from  the  cold. 

"We  came  to  get  married.  If  you " 

"Oh,  certainly,  certainly,"  Mr.  Taylor  assured  them  hastily. 

Mrs.  Taylor  had  thought  "wedding"  when  they  first  came  in,  and 
had  come  back  into  the  room.  Now  she  asked  the  girls  if  they  would 
not  like  to  take  off  their  wraps.  She  offered  to  let  them  go  into  the 
bedroom  "if  they  wanted  to  fix  up  any,"  but  they  shyly  refused.  Au- 
gust asked  her  where  the  kitchen  was,  and  after  he  had  washed  his 
hands  at  the  granite  basin,  he  came  back  and  murmured,  "Do  you 
want  to  wash  up,  Emma?" 

After  many  backings  and  exchanging  of  places,  with  a  nervous  de- 
termination on  Mr.  Taylor's  part  to  mistake  Mollie  for  the  bride, 
which  made  Herman  blush,  the  wedding  party  was  arranged.  August 
and  Emma  stood  between  the  two  windows,  with  Herman  and 
Mollie  in  frozen  attitudes  on  each  side  of  them,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
facing  them. 

"Dearly  beloved,  we  are  gathered  together  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  these  witnesses  to  join  this  man  and  this  woman  in  the  holy 
bonds  of  matrimony." 

The  voice  sounded  sonorous  in  the  small,  bleak  room.  Emma  stood 
in  trembling  quietness.  August  had  to  clear  his  throat,  and  then  his 
voice  came  out  gruffly.  Herman  breathed  hard  and  eased  his  weight. 
Some  coal  dropped  in  the  stove. 

They  felt  shy  and  happy  under  the  congratulations  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Taylor.  They  signed  the  certificate,  and  August  fished  in  his 
pocket  and  brought  out  two  dollars  for  the  minister.  Emma  said  that 
they  would  bring  his  wife  a  chicken  in  the  summer. 

They  drove  back  to  the  farm  down  the  dim,  chilly  road,  the  bare 
bushes  thin  and  small,  the  fields  spreading  out  black  and  sprinkled 
with  snow.  There  was  a  wintry  red  in  the  Western  sky. 

They  had  supper  at  the  Stilles',  where  the  old  lady  had  got  up  a 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  253 

big  meal  for  them,  inviting  in  all  the  married  children.  Emma  was 
to  stay  there  until  August  "got  things  fixed"  at  the  farm  and  could 
come  after  her.  But  he  had  to  go  straight  over  to  the  farm  in  the  morn- 
ing. One  of  the  Stille  boys  was  staying  there  now,  looking  after 
things,  but  the  next  day  August  was  to  take  possession. 

PART     TWO 

I:    THE  FARM  AND  THE  CHILDREN 

The  farm,  when  August  and  Emma  first  went  there,  didn't  look 
much  as  it  did  later.  It  was  one  that  Wilhelm  Stille  had  got  hold 
of  almost  by  accident  through  a  mortgage.  It  had  had  a  poor  owner, 
and  then  renters  on  it,  so  that  it  was  in  bad  shape.  Willie  Stille  had 
been  "batching  it"  there  during  the  winter  months,  but  of  course 
he  knew  that  he  wasn't  going  to  stay,  and  had  done  no  more  than 
keep  things  going.  But  it  was  a  piece  of  land  that  would  pay  the  man 
who  really  took  hold  of  it. 

Few  of  the  present  improvements  were  there.  The  buildings  were 
flimsily  built  affairs,  some  of  them  unpainted.  There  was  a  little  one- 
story  house  with  old-fashioned  small-paned  windows,  dismal  and  dark 
and  ugly.  No  yard,  no  bushes  or  flowers,  and  over  on  the  west  a 
tangled,  half-grown  wilderness  of  all  kinds  of  trees  and  bushes  planted 
together.  August  cut  all  those  down  later,  except  the  double  row  of 
elms  that  he  left  for  a  wind-break.  One  thing  there  was,  a  good  well. 
Otherwise  it  was  like  building  a  place  up  from  the  beginning. 

The  old  lady  Stille  would  have  liked  to  keep  the  farm  in  her  own 
hands,  to  have  had  August  and  Emma  stay  there  merely  as  renters. 
She  liked  to  keep  a  hold  on  the  children.  But  August  would  not  go 
there  under  any  such  conditions.  He  meant  to  work  without  stopping 
until  he  had  paid  for  the  farm.  He  had  a  genuine  Kaetterhenry  ob- 
stinacy and  a  desire  to  do  things  for  himself.  He  would  not  stand 
interference;  his  mother-in-law  soon  found  that  out. 

The  Kaetterhenrys  started  in  with  almost  nothing,  as  most  young 
couples  did  in  those  days.  August  had  something  saved  from  all  his 
years  of  work;  Emma  did  not  know  exactly  how  much.  He  spent  this 
very  thriftily.  At  first  they  would  have  to  get  along  with  as  little  as 
they  could,  "until  they  got  the  farm  paid  for."  He  paid  for  part  of 
his  stock  and  implements  and  went  in  debt  for  the  rest.  To  have  a 
farm  free  from  encumbrances;  to  own  "clear"  the  stock,  the  machin- 
ery, and  the  land,  was  what  he  was  working  for.  All  that  he  had  or 
could  make  went  into  the  farm. 

The  house— ach,  that  didn't  matter  so  much.  It  was  a  gloomy,  bare 


254  RUTH  SUCKOW 

little  house.  Emma  brought  along  what  she  could  from  home:  com- 
forters that  she  and  her  sisters  had  been  making  through  the  winter; 
some  goosefeather  pillows;  rag  rugs  that  she  had  sewed;  some  heavy 
white  dishes,  with  a  brown  rim,  and  a  clover  leaf  in  the  centre,  that 
she  and  Mollie  had  picked  out  in  the  store  in  Richland.  August  and 
Emma  drove  into  town  one  day  and  got  what  furniture  they  would 
need:  a  black  walnut  bed  and  commode;  a  kitchen  table  and  stove; 
chairs;  a  parlour  stand.  There  were  wedding  presents.  Emma's  father 
gave  them  a  clock,  and  her  mother  a  feather-bed.  Hans  Stille,  who 
was  known  as  "quite  a  carpenter,"  made  them  a  tall  narrow  desk  and 
bookcase  of  home-grown  black  walnut.  August's  sister  Mina  sent  them 
a  "splasher"  for  the  commode  on  which  she  had  worked  in  red  outline 
stitch  some  ducks  and  waves.  The  Stille  boys  gave  them  an  album  with 
orange  plush  covers,  and  Mollie  and  Herman  Klaus,  who  were  going 
to  be  married  soon,  bought  them  a  set  of  vases,  with  cat-tails  en- 
crusted in  gold  on  the  sides.  Their  living  was  done  in  the  kitchen  and 
bedroom.  The  front  room,  which  had  the  rag  carpet,  the  stand,  the 
vases,  and  the  album,  and  a  large  German  Bible,  they  kept  shut  off. 

They  could  not  afford  help.  August  did  most  of  the  work  himself. 
He  got  up  at  daylight,  or  earlier,  and  it  was  dark  before  he  finished 
his  chores  in  the  evening.  He  was  "one  of  the  best  workers  around," 
people  said.  He  was  going  to  have  a  good  place  here  some  day.  One 
or  another  of  the  Stille  boys  came  over  and  helped  when  the  work 
was  heaviest.  Emma  had  to  help  him  in  the  field.  August  saw  noth- 
ing unusual  in  that,  although  most  of  the  farmers'  wives  here  were 
not  seen  in  the  fields.  All  "the  womenfolks"  had  had  to  help  over  in 
the  Turkey  timber.  He  had  always  seen  his  mother  and  his  sister 
Lena  out  working  with  the  men.  He  expected  it  of  his  "woman." 

There  was  not  much  but  work  for  them  these  days.  They  had  no 
buggy  at  first,  only  a  wagon.  But  they  drove  into  church  when  they 
could  on  Sunday  mornings.  Church— that  was  somehow  part  of  do- 
ing well,  of  living  the  way  they  should  and  getting  prosperous.  They 
couldn't  go  off  the  place  often,  since  they  had  no  one  to  leave  with 
the  stock.  And  when  they  did  go,  they  must  always  be  back  in  time 
for  chores.  August  got  away  more  than  Emma  did;  he  had  trips  to 
make  into  town.  Emma  soon  found  out  that  he  was  not  the  kind  who 
would  take  her  with  him.  His  mother  had  never  gone  to  town.  He 
did  all  of  the  buying.  He  had  a  shrewd,  hard  feeling  that  he  must 
keep  things  in  his  own  hands  if  he  was  going  to  get  ahead.  He  had 
that  thrifty,  bull-headed  Kaetterhenry  streak  in  him  that  showed  in 
his  attitude  toward  the  woman.  Emma  hated  to  ask  him  for  things. 
She  went  out  to  the  wagon  timidly,  said,  "August,  do  you  think  you 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  255 

could  get  me  a  little  of  that  calico,  maybe?"  He  grunted.  He  would 
get  it  if  he  thought  she  needed  it,  but  he  decided  that. 

Emma  settled  down  quickly  into  a  young  farm  wife.  She  "lost  her 
giggles,"  as  the  family  said,  and  got  an  air  of  timidity  that  was  an 
accentuation  of  her  old  shyness.  She  was  thin,  with  skin  burned  dark, 
and  tired,  hollow  eyes.  She  seldom  got  out  of  her  wrappers.  August 
was  close;  he  did  not  tell  her  things.  He  expected  a  good  deal  of  her. 
But,  still,  as  her  sisters  told  her  and  as  she  knew,  she  had  got  a  good 
man.  He  would  have  a  fine  farm  some  day,  and  then  she  would  be 
glad  that  they  had  worked  while  they  were  young. 

Then  the  children  were  born,  Frankie,  Mary,  Elva,  Carl.  That 
kept  Emma  busy  enough.  While  she  had  only  the  first  two,  she  still 
helped  in  the  field.  Frankie  and  Mary  were  easy  to  manage.  But 
when  Elva  was  born,  Emma  had  a  hard  time.  It  had  to  be  right  in 
haying-time,  the  men  there,  and  no  one  to  feed  them,  no  one  to  look 
after  the  other  children.  They  got  August's  sister  Mina,  a  fat,  kind, 
melancholy  woman  now,  who  worked  at  anything  that  she  could  find 
to  do;  but  the  old  lady  Stille  couldn't  stand  it  to  have  any  of  August's 
folks  there.  She  came  over,  "nosing  in,"  as  August  said,  and  she  drove 
out  even  Mina,  who  was  used  to  all  kinds  of  treatment.  Emma  had  to 
get  up  before  she  was  ready  and  go  to  work  again.  There  was  no  time 
for  rest  these  days,  she  said,  even  if  a  person  was  sick.  But  she  was 
never  quite  so  well  from  that  time. 

After  the  first  two,  she  had  to  stop  helping  August  outside.  She  still 
helped  with  the  milking,  took  care  of  the  chickens  and  geese  and  the 
milk  and  cream,  and  made  butter.  She  had  all  that  she  could  do  in 
the  house.  Wherever  she  went,  the  children  were  following  her— in 
dingy,  much-washed  blue  dresses,  made  too  large,  so  that  they  could 
be  handed  along  and  fit  the  next  one— little,  frowzy-headed  country 
children,  toddling  after  her,  pulling  at  her  skirt,  under  her  feet  wher- 
ever she  stepped.  The  older  ones  could  play  outdoors  by  themselves, 
but  there  was  always  a  baby  in  the  red  high-chair  beside  the  stove 
while  she  cooked  or  ironed;  and  she  would  have  to  stop  to  change  dia- 
pers, cry,  "No,  no,  you  can't  have  that!"  snatch  the  child  hurriedly  up, 
murmuring,  remorsefully  but  a  little  fretfully,  "Come  on  now.  No, 
mamma  ain't  forgot  all  about  you.  Did  you  think  she  had?  Can't  you 
let  mamma  get  back  to  her  work  now?"  Sometimes  she  was  fretful 
and  anxious.  But  Emma  never  seemed  to  get  really  cross.  She  never 
sprang  up  and  "took  a  whack  at  them,"  like  Mollie,  and  then  got 
ashamed  of  herself. 

Emma  did  not  look  so  strong,  but  she  could  keep  going. 

The  two  oldest  children,  Frankie  and  Mary,  had  always  been  "real 


256  RUTH   SUCKOW 

good."  Emma  had  never  had  any  trouble  with  them  when  they  were 
babies.  They  were  both  quiet,  slim,  dark-haired  children,  like  some 
of  the  Stilles.  They  would  always  play  together  and  amuse  them- 
selves, Mary  especially.  Mary  was  always  a  great  one  for  school.  When 
she  was  a  tiny  thing  she  used  to  play  school  out  near  the  corn-crib, 
with  the  ears  of  corn,  with  their  long  silken  hair,  for  "scholars,"  all 
arranged  in  a  row  before  her,  their  hair  braided,  wearing  little  hats 
of  leaves  trimmed  with  clover  blossoms,  which  she  carefully  removed 
when  school  began.  She  tried  to  read  before  she  knew  one  letter  from 
another;  anything,  the  texts  on  the  coloured  Sunday-school  cards, 
seed  catalogues  that  came  to  the  house,  the  labels  on  baking-powder 
cans.  "She  must  be  going  to  be  a  school-teacher  when  she  grows  up," 
people  said. 

Elva  was  the  odd  one.  She  didn't  seem  to  belong  to  the  rest  of  the 
family.  Perhaps  it  was  because  she  had  been  sickly  when  she  was  a 
baby  and  had  had  some  "spoiling."  She  had  been  twice  as  much 
trouble  as  the  other  two  put  together.  When  she  was  a  baby  she  used 
to  have  spells  of  holding  her  breath,  and  even  her  father  had  a  hard 
time  to  manage  her.  She  had  fine,  red-gold  hair  and  a  very  white  skin, 
although  she  was  never  exactly  pretty.  She  liked  to  get  out  of  things 
and  to  leave  Mary  to  do  them. 

She  still  took  more  care  than  Carl,  when  he  was  born  three  years 
later.  Carl  was  the  one  who  took  after  his  father  most.  He  had  the 
light  hair,  ruddy  skin,  blue  eyes,  and  was  stocky  and  sturdy.  He  kept 
things  to  himself,  too.  Carl  was  August's  favourite.  August  was  never 
much  of  a  hand  to  be  around  the  children,  but  he  paid  more  atten- 
tion to  Carl. 

August  wanted  his  children  to  have  what  other  children  had,  but 
he  thought  they  ought  to  help.  Frankie  had  to  help  his  father  out  in 
the  field  as  soon  as  he  was  big  enough  to  go  out  there.  August  wasn't 
going  to  pay  for  help  when  he  had  boys  of  his  own.  "My,  how  those 
Kaetterhenrys  all  work!"  people  would  exclaim.  They  would  see  this 
little  fellow  out  in  the  field,  in  the  burning  sun,  working  just  like 
a  man.  Looking  like  a  man,  too,  in  his  blue  overalls  and  big  straw 
hat.  It  didn't  seem  to  August  that  his  children  had  it  hard.  He  re- 
membered his  own  childhood  and  how  his  father  had  made  all  of 
them  slave.  He  didn't  work  Frankie  like  that.  August  wouldn't  have 
thought  of  having  Frankie  go  and  hire  out  off  the  place,  as  he  had 
had  to  do.  Frankie  didn't  know  what  it  was  to  have  to  get  along  as 
his  father  had  done  at  some  of  those  places  where  he  had  worked, 
Grobaty's,  for  instance,  where  he  used  to  sleep  in  the  straw.  August 
could  not  see  that  he  was  hard  on  the  boy.  But  other  people  said  that 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  2j7 

Frankie  was  a  man  before  his  time.  A  short,  dark,  sober  boy  with 
brown  skin,  always  looking  a  little  stunted,  especially  in  that  best 
suit  of  dark,  thick  cloth,  the  blue  tie,  and  the  brown  felt  hat,  that 
he  wore  to  Sunday  school, 

August  never  required  Mary  to  help  on  the  place,  as  his  oldest 
sister  had  done.  That  hadn't  hurt  Lena  any.  Look  at  her  now,  a  big 
stout  woman,  mother  of  seven  children,  stronger  than  it  seemed  Mary 
would  ever  be.  Mary  was  obedient  and  good,  and  she  was  a  great  help 
with  the  housework  and  the  little  ones.  The  trouble  with  her  was 
that  she  didn't  have  her  mind  on  what  she  was  doing.  She  always  had 
to  have  her  nose  in  a  book,  anything  that  she  could  get  hold  of,  the 
big  German  Bible,  a  "History  of  the  Civil  War"  that  August  was 
once  inveigled  into  buying  from  an  agent,  the  mail-house  catalogues. 
Those  catalogues  opened  up  worlds  to  Mary.  She  could  hardly  wait 
for  her  father  to  go  into  town  to  the  post  office  when  it  was  time  for 
a  new  one  to  come.  She  couldn't  bear  to  go  past  anything  that  had 
printing  on  it.  When  they  were  driving  along  the  road  and  saw  a 
piece  of  newspaper,  she  would  beg  to  get  out  and  capture  it.  August 
thought  this  was  silly.  He  could  see  no  sense  in  a  girl's  wanting  to 
read  and  study  so  much. 

"Ach,  what  do  you  always  have  to  be  reading  for?"  the  others  said. 

But  the  oldest  girl  in  a  family  like  theirs  didn't  get  much  chance 
to  read. 

The  country  school  was  two  miles  from  the  Kaetterhenry  farm. 
August  always  "aimed"  to  let  the  children  go.  They  walked  the  two 
miles  back  and  forth,  taking  their  lunch  in  tin  pails.  They  went 
"pretty  regular,"  except  when  they  were  needed  at  home,  Frankie  for 
the  farm  work  and  Mary  to  help  with  the  babies.  Elva  didn't  care 
much  for  school,  but  Mary  made  a  terrible  fuss,  they  said,  when  she 
had  to  miss. 

That  school  seemed  pretty  fine  to  August  when  he  thought  of  what 
he  had  had.  That  old  Turkey  Creek  school  with  teachers  coming  and 
going!  This  was  a  nice  frame  building,  painted  pink,  with  desks  and 
seats  like  those  in  the  town  school.  And  then  they  had  a  teacher  for 
the  whole  term.  A  high-school  girl  from  Richland  usually  (the  high 
school  there  gave  a  two-year  course)  who  was  teaching  a  few  terms 
of  country  school  before  getting  married.  Mary  was  always  talking 
about  town  school,  but  August  couldn't  see  but  that  they  got  about 
as  good  as  what  they'd  get  in  town.  All  they  needed,  anyway. 

August  and  Emma  wanted  to  do  the  best  for  their  children  that 
they  could.  It  worried  Emma  that  they  couldn't  always  get  in  to 
Sunday  school;  that  was  more  important  than  the  other  school.  That 


258  RUTH  SUCKOW 

was  bringing  the  children  up  right.  August  bought  a  buggy  so  that 
he  could  take  them.  They  drove  in  on  Sunday  mornings— August  and 
Frankie  on  the  front  seat,  in  the  back  the  two  girls,  and  Emma  hold- 
ing little  Carl  on  her  lap.  Often  they  got  there  too  late  for  church, 
but  they  were  in  time  for  Sunday  school.  Mary  and  Elva  in  funny 
little  dresses  too  long  for  them,  stiff  best  hats  with  elastic  under  their 
chins,  hair  in  tight  black  and  blond  braids  tied  with  little  pieces  of 
narrow  blue  ribbon.  Frankie  clumping  in  heavy  shoes  that  smelled 
of  blacking,  looking  too  old  for  his  age  in  his  heavy  dark  suit  with 
"long  pants"  and  a  brown  felt  hat  like  his  father's. 

They  prized  the  coloured  cards  that  they  got,  with  pictures  and 
the  golden  text  on  them,  showing  Christ,  with  brown  curly  hair,  in 
white  robes,  the  disciples  in  blue  and  red  (blue  for  John,  who  was 
pictured  as  almost  as  pretty  as  Jesus).  Their  Sunday-school  papers 
were  treasured  during  the  week—  The  Boy's  Friend,  The  Girl's 
Friend,  Dew  Drops.  Mary  read  the  stories  avidly.  Even  Emma  got 
into  the  habit  of  looking  at  the  serials  in  The  Girl's  Friend,  although 
she  never  actually  finished  one. 

The  children  were  shy,  and  wouldn't  say  much  in  Sunday  school, 
Mary  and  Elva  because  of  the  town  girls,  who  wore  better  dresses 
than  they  did.  But  they  all  looked  forward  to  Sunday  school,  loved 
the  cards,  the  papers,  the  drive  to  town,  the  hymns,  jingly  Methodist 
"Sabbath-school"  hymns,  "There  Is  Power  in  the  Blood,"  "Jesus  Paid 
It  All,"  "The  Old-time  Religion."  Mary  wished  that  they  had  an 
organ  so  that  she  could  learn  to  play  these  songs  at  home,  and  Emma 
admitted  wistfully  that  it  "would  be  nice."  When  they  went  to  Henry 
Stille's,  where  there  was  an  organ  in  the  closed,  chilly  front  room, 
Mary  went  in  and  learned  to  "pick  out  the  tune,"  or  something  like 
the  tune. 

"Until  they  got  all  this  paid  for  once"— that  was  the  answer  to 
everything,  new  house,  new  furniture,  organ. 

The  old  Stilles  did  not  like  it  very  well  that  their  grandchildren 
were  going  to  "English  church."  August  and  Emma  did  not  speak 
German  in  the  home,  as  the  old  people  had  done. 

"Ach,  das  ist  nicht  recht!"  the  old  man  Stille  would  say  sadly.  He 
wondered  what  would  become  of  them  all. 

II:    GRANDMA  AND  GRANDPA 

The  house  simply  wouldn't  hold  them  all.  Three  years  after  Carl 
there  was  Johnnie.  And  then  the  old  Stilles  wanted  to  give  up  their 
home  and  come  to  live  with  August  and  Emma.  August  hated  to  do 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  259 

anything  with  the  house  until  he  had  a  better  barn,  but  there  was 
no  way  out  of  it.  The  old  Stilles  would  help  a  little. 

Hans  Stille  was  working  over  near  "Wapsie."  He  was  the  only  one 
who  never  married,  a  little,  shy,  dark-haired  man  with  shining,  dark- 
brown  eyes  and  timid,  gentle  ways.  Mary  was  like  him  in  some  ways, 
the  Kaetterhenrys  said  when  they  were  provoked  at  Mary.  He  never 
seemed  to  settle  down  and  get  anywhere,  but  there  was  not  much  in 
the  line  of  handy  things  that  he  couldn't  do.  He  stayed  with  August 
and  Emma  all  that  summer  and  the  next.  They  moved  back  the  old 
house,  used  the  two  old  front  rooms  for  kitchen  and  bedroom,  and 
built  on  three  new  rooms  in  front  and  an  upstairs  with  two  rooms. 
It  looked  like  a  nice  modern  house  when  they  got  through  with  it, 
although  the  upstairs  was  never  fully  finished— white,  with  pink  trim- 
mings, a  narrow  porch,  a  triangle  of  wooden  lace  under  the  peak  in 
front.  The  next  summer  Hans  made  over  the  two  old  back  rooms 
into  a  corn-crib  and  tool-house. 

Then  there  had  to  be  new  things  for  the  house,  of  course.  They 
ordered  some  new  furniture  from  the  catalogue,  a  combination  desk 
and  bookcase  for  the  front  room  (they  used  the  old  one  that  Hans 
had  made  for  a  cupboard),  a  new  stationary  rocker  upholstered  in 
green-flowered  velvet.  They  got  a  new  bedroom  set  for  themselves, 
dresser,  commode,  and  bed  of  golden  oak,  the  bed  with  a  high  head- 
board. They  put  the  old  walnut  things  in  the  boys'  room,  the  big 
end  room,  left  half  finished,  used  as  a  store-room,  too. 

When  the  old  Stilles  came  they  brought  some  of  their  things  with 
them,— their  long  extension  table  and  some  chairs  for  the  dining- 
room;  grandpa's  old  German  books,  queer  ancient  things  with  faded 
black  and  brownish  bindings,  religious  books;  some  old  home-made 
walnut  beds  and  feather-beds;  ancient  quilts  of  dark  woollen  pieces. 
The  little  old  downstairs  bedroom  in  the  back  now  became  ''grand- 
ma's and  grandpa's  room,"  a  small,  dark,  stuffy  room  with  an  uneven 
floor,  one  dingy,  small-paned  window.  They  set  up  an  ancient  walnut 
dresser  with  a  little  dark-framed  mirror  hung  above  it,  an  old  rope 
bed  piled  high  with  billowy  feather-mattresses,  with  dark-looking 
musty-smelling  quilts  over  them;  and  on  nails  in  one  corner,  grand- 
ma's and  grandpa's  clothes— an  old  brown  waistcoat,  the  coat  in  which 
grandpa  had  done  his  preaching,  some  big  gaping  country  shoes,  and 
grandma's  dark  dresses  and  stealthy-looking  grey  shawls  and  old  black 
petticoats.  The  two  big  wooden  rockers  stood  there,  and  beside  one 
of  them  an  ancient  brown  spittoon. 

One  thing  that  the  old  people  brought  was  an  organ.  One  of  the 
old  carpeted  pedals  would  not  work.  It  was  put  into  the  sepulchral 


260  RUTH  SUCKOW 

front  room,  and  August  declared  that  he  could  pay  for  no  lessons. 
But  somehow  Mary  managed  to  pick  out  a  few  hymn  tunes  on  it. 
Maybe  some  day  some  of  them  could  "take." 

The  old  people  had  had  misfortunes.  After  getting  together  a 
good-sized  pile  of  money  from  his  land,  grandpa  had  made  poor  in- 
vestments. Some  he  had  lost  in  Colorado  gold-mines;  and  a  German 
Methodist  insurance  company  advertised  in  the  flaming  German 
monthly  which  he  took,  Die  Flammende  Fackel,  had  swindled  him 
out  of  more.  His  son  Willie  took  the  home  farm,  but  some  of  the 
rent  would  have  to  go  to  make  up  losses.  Old  Wilhelm  Stille  had 
long  been  on  the  verge  of  joining  a  communistic  colony  in  Wisconsin 
of  some  wild  Methodist  sect,  but  the  old  lady  had  kept  him  from  it; 
and  now  that  he  had  so  little  money  to  put  into  the  common  fund, 
the  colony  seemed  much  less  eager  to  get  him.  So  he  went  instead  to 
his  daughter  Emma's.  The  old  lady  shrewdly  suspected  that  her  son- 
in-law  August  was  likely  to  have  the  best  home  for  them  in  the  long 
run. 

They  moved  over  soon  after  the  new  house  was  finished.  August 
was  close,  but  he  would  do  what  he  must.  He  realized  that  he  owed 
some  of  his  start  to  his  wife's  people,  but  he  determined  that  the  old 
lady  should  know  her  place. 

The  old  folks  were  now  "Grandma"  and  "Grandpa"  Stille  to  every- 
one. They  had  aged  greatly  in  the  last  few  years.  It  seemed  as  if 
grandpa  had  changed,  now  that  he  no  longer  had  farm  affairs  to 
attend  to,  and  that  his  "religious  side"  had  come  uppermost.  He  was 
thin,  with  a  lean  face,  a  large  nose,  scant,  straight  silvery-white  hair 
that  grew  long,  a  white  beard,  and  deep-set,  mystical,  dark  eyes.  His 
thin  voice  was  gentler,  had  a  far-away  sound.  He  was  feeble,  and 
when  he  first  came,  they  feared  that  he  wouldn't  last  long.  He  couldn't 
do  much  but  sit  in  the  wooden  rocker  with  the  calico  cushion,  smok- 
ing a  black  pipe  and  reading  his  old  German  religious  books  and 
papers. 

The  old  lady  was  squatter,  craftier-looking  than  ever,  with  that 
round,  wrinkled  face,  the  smooth  hair  showing  the  broad,  worn  white 
parting,  the  round  ear-rings,  her  eyes  now  two  slits  in  narrowed,  lash- 
less  rims.  She  went  softly  about  in  slippers,  in  a  shapeless  dark-grey 
calico  dress  and  dingy,  black  apron,  a  scarf  tied  over  her  head.  At 
first  she  tried  to  run  things.  She  tried  to  tell  the  children  what  they 
should  do  and  she  protested  against  every  cent  that  the  family  spent, 
wanted  them  to  live  in  every  way  just  as  she  and  grandpa  had  lived. 

Emma  was  going  to  submit  to  grandma's  interfering  at  first.  The 
old  lady  had  always  had  all  of  the  children— and  grandpa,  too— under 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  261 

her  thumb,  ruling  them  through  their  fear  of  her  meanness.  But 
August  had  no  intention  of  letting  grandma  get  the  upper  hand.  He- 
had  stood  things  from  grandma  before,  when  she  had  come  snooping 
over  to  see  how  they  were  running  the  farm  and  to  exclaim  at  the 
waste.  But  things  were  changed  now.  He  had  finished  paying  for  the 
farm  a  good  while  ago,  although  he  had  not  actually  admitted  it  to 
Emma,  thinking  the  less  the  womenfolks  knew  about  that  sort  of 
thing  the  better.  This  was  his  own  house  now.  No  woman  was  going 
to  come  around  and  tell  him  how  to  run  it. 

Grandma  soon  found  that  there  was  one  person  whom  she  couldn't 
rule.  All  her  schemes,  her  craft,  her  sullenness,  and  her  tantrums, 
which  had  always  got  her  what  she  wanted  as  a  last  resort,  were  pow- 
erless against  August's  stubbornness.  She  was  a  little  afraid  of  August 
from  the  start.  She  tried  to  get  in  her  work  without  August's  know- 
ing it,  when  he  was  out  of  the  house;  but  when  he  came  in  and  found 
out  what  she  was  up  to,  then  there  were  battles.  The  children  sat  in 
terrified,  wide-eyed  awe,  and  Emma  wept  a  little,  silently  and  trem- 
blingly, while  grandpa  pleaded,  moaning  sadly,  "Ma— Mutter— ach, 
no!  no!  no!"  The  children  had  never  seen  anyone  like  grandma  at 
these  times.  The  old  woman  could  be  a  fury.  But  August  was  stronger 
than  she.  She  found  that  she  could  not  conquer  him  as  she  had  the 
others.  She  was  reduced  to  impotence,  to  angry  mutterings,  while  she 
eyed  August  with  a  bitter,  vengeful,  helpless  glare. 

She  had  always  had  sullen  times  when  no  one  could  do  anything 
with  her.  She  had  them  now— times  when  she  would  not  eat  or  move 
or  speak,  when,  after  grandpa  and  Emma  had  vainly  tried  to  call  her 
to  meals,  the  children  were  sent  to  the  door  of  her  room.  They  found 
her  sitting  there  in  her  old  wooden  rocker  in  the  gloomy,  low-ceiled 
room,  among  her  old  household  things  and  her  shawls  and  dresses,  a 
tragic,  baffled,  ominous  old  figure,  shapeless  and  huddled  together  in 
her  dark,  dingy  old  clothes,  with  her  feet  in  their  spreading,  black 
felt  slippers,  rocking,  and  muttering,  in  guttural  German,  things  that 
they  could  not  understand. 

This  was  the  only  revenge  against  August  that  she  had.  He  let  her 
be  when  she  was  like  this.  But  she  knew  that  even  in  this  she  dared 
not  go  too  far.  August  was  the  only  one  who  had  ever  been  able  to 
manage  her.  Far  down  underneath  her  anger  and  bitterness  there 
was  a  kind  of  admiration  of  him.  He  was  hard  and  thrifty  and  strong 
and  a  good  farmer.  She  secretly  despised  her  other  son-in-law,  Her- 
man Klaus,  beside  him— Herman,  a  little,  dried-up,  undersized  man 
who  let  Mollie  have  the  say-so.  August  was  not  a  "blower."  He  was 
close-mouthed,  and  the  old  woman  admired  that.  And  she  secretly 


262  RUTH  SUCKOW 

approved  of  his  looks.  You  could  tell  from  them  that  not  many  peo- 
ple were  going  to  get  ahead  of  him.  Sturdy,  square-set,  heavy,  but 
not  fat,  in  his  old  blue  shirt  and  overalls,  with  his  ruddy  face  and 
blue  eyes  and  the  harsh  outcropping  of  golden  beard  upon  his  sun- 
burned skin,  and  the  golden  hairs  on  his  thick  brown  arms.  His  hair 
was  not  so  heavy  now;  there  was  a  bald  spot  on  top,  but  the  old  lady 
thought  contemptuously  that  he  looked  younger  than  Emma  did.  She 
secretly  thought  that  he  was  too  good  a  man  for  Emma,  whom  she 
considered  weak  and  lappisch. 

Having  the  old  folks  there  made  more  work  for  Emma.  Her  father 
she  didn't  mind.  He  made  no  more  trouble  than  he  could  help.  He 
tried  to  come  out  of  his  dreams  to  do  what  he  could  for  her.  He 
gathered  the  eggs,  helped  to  hitch  up  the  horses,  kept  the  little  ones 
out  of  the  way  sometimes  when  she  was  busy.  Marguerite,  the  young- 
est, who  was  born  after  grandma  and  grandpa  came,  was  his  favourite. 
A  pretty,  wilful  little  baby,  knowing  very  well  that  she  was  the 
youngest  and  had  privileges,  with  a  fuzz  of  golden  curls  and  bright 
blue  eyes.  She  was  the  only  child  born  in  the  new  house,  and  she 
seemed  to  come  into  a  different  order  of  things.  Even  her  father  was 
less  severe  with  her  than  with  the  others.  Grandpa  put  aside  his  old 
papers,  trotted  her  on  his  knee,  sang  old  German  hymns  to  her  in  a 
faint  high-pitched  voice  that  seemed  to  come  from  a  different  world, 
took  her  out  obediently  to  see  the  "calfies,"  made  Johnnie  give  up 
his  playthings  to  her.  Emma  had  plenty  to  do  besides,  and  was  glad 
to  have  grandpa  look  after  Marguerite. 

Grandma  had  always  worked  hard  at  home,  but  she  wanted  to  say 
how  things  should  be  done.  Here  she  complained  that  she  was  useless; 
no  one  paid  any  attention  to  her.  She  would  have  helped  with  the 
cooking.  But,  '  Ach,  I  don't  know,"  Emma  told  Mollie.  "Ma  has  her 
old  ways  of  doing  things,  and  the  children  they  don't  seem  to  like 
what  she  makes."  She  clung  more  than  ever  to  her  old  ways  now, 
spoke  almost  nothing  but  German,  would  not  leave  the  place  or  ride 
in  the  new  buggy,  would  use  none  of  the  "new-fangled"  things  except 
the  telephone.  That  was  grandma's  one  solace.  She  could  sit  "listen- 
ing in"  for  an  hour  at  a  time,  a  look  of  stealthy  gratification  on  her 
face,  hearing  everything:  her  daughter  Mollie  call  a  neighbour,  Her- 
man call  in  from  town  to  Mollie  and  say  what  he  was  going  to  buy 
for  Sunday,  long  conversations  between  two  country  women,  deals 
between  men.  But  they  could  never  get  her  to  speak  into  the  tele- 
phone herself. 

Grandpa  had  been  the  one  who  was  ailing  when  the  old  people 
came.  But,  although  he  stayed  somewhat  feeble  and  tremulous,  when 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  263 

his  troubles  and  farm  worries  were  off  his  shoulders  at  last,  he  seemed 
to  get  better  and  sink  into  a  kind  of  irresponsible  sweet  content, 
dreaming,  reading  his  old  books,  playing  with  Marguerite.  It  was 
grandma  who  was  ailing  now.  They  didn't  know  what  was  the  matter 
with  her.  She  took  more  and  more  looking  after.  One  morning  when 
she  got  out  of  bed  she  fell,  and  couldn't  get  up.  They  had  to  have 
August  come  in  and  lift  her.  Afterwards  they  thought  that  it  must 
have  been  "kind  of  a  stroke."  She  seemed  to  get  all  right  again,  and 
yet  they  thought  that  it  was  hard  for  her  to  lift  her  feet,  and  that  she 
mumbled  a  little  sometimes  when  she  tried  to  talk.  Always  in  Emma's 
mind  was  the  fear  of  the  time  when  her  mother  might  be  helpless, 
like  the  old  lady  Schuldt,  and  have  to  be  taken  care  of. 

It  all  came  on  Emma.  Grandpa  helped  a  little,  but  there  was  more 
washing,  more  cooking  and  more  cleaning.  It  seemed  as  if  she  lived 
more  than  ever  in  the  kitchen.  Neighbours  consoled  her.  "Well,  now 
you  can  go  more.  You  can  leave  the  children  with  grandma  and 
grandpa  and  get  away."  Maybe  they  did  go  a  little  more  than  before. 
They  had  a  nice,  big,  leather-topped,  two-seated  buggy  now.  There 
were  the  boys  to  help  August  with  the  chores,  so  that  he  didn't  have 
it  all  to  do. 

They  went  into  church  often  on  Sundays,  leaving  the  two  smallest 
ones  with  grandpa.  August  and  Emma  joined  the  Bible  class,  which 
was  taught  by  the  Hon.  H.  G.  Bossingham,  who  had  served  a  term 
as  State  representative  and  got  the  "Honourable"  before  his  name. 
August  never  talked  in  the  class,  but  he  enjoyed  it  more  than  any- 
thing since  he  used  to  attend  the  old  German  country  church  near 
Turkey  Creek.  Emma  liked  it,  but  she  didn't  always  feel  like  com- 
ing. Either  she  or  Mary  had  to  stay  at  home  and  see  about  the  din- 
ner, and  it  had  better  be  she,  since,  if  she  came,  she  felt  uneasy  about 
grandma. 

They  had  their  outings,  like  the  other  country  people.  They  drove 
in  to  the  Fourth  of  July  celebration  at  "Wapsie"  on  a  blistering  hot 
day,  leaving  their  team  and  buggy  at  the  park  and  tramping  the  burn- 
ing streets,  where  red-white-and-blue  bunting  was  hung  between  the 
telephone  poles.  A  silent  country  party,  ill  at  ease,  the  girls  in  home- 
made lawn  dresses  of  blue,  with  cheap  lace,  the  boys  sunburned  and 
short,  like  little  old  men  in  their  heavy  clothes  and  felt  hats.  The  hot 
cement  burned  through  their  stiff  Sunday  shoes.  They  listened  to  the 
band  concert  and  the  speech  in  the  park.  They  brought  their  dinner 
in  a  big  pasteboard  box,  and  they  and  Herman's  family  ate  together 
on  the  grass,  fried  chicken,  thick  bread  and  butter,  pickles,  coco-nut 
cake.  The  children  teased  for  ice-cream,  which  the  Baptist  Ladies' 


264  RUTH  SUCKOW 

Aid  were  serving,  but  August  said  there  were  too  many  of  them  and 
that  they  had  enough  without.  The  children  liked  to  come,  but  there 
was  all  that  work  beforehand  getting  up  the  big  lunch  and  getting 
all  the  children  ready,  then  looking  after  them  while  they  were  there 
and  getting  them  all  together  to  go  home  again.  Emma  and  Mollie 
said  tiiat  they'd  almost  as  soon  stay  at  home. 

They  went  to  the  county  fair,  held  every  September  in  the  fair 
grounds  at  "Wapsie."  They  drove,  and  Herman  and  Mollie  drove, 
and  they  took  big  boxes  of  lunch  again  and  ate  together.  The  men 
enjoyed  the  races,  but  the  women  liked  to  go  into  the  big,  flimsy 
wooden  building,  where  the  fancy  work  and  cooking-exhibits  were 
held,  walking  about  and  looking  and  murmuring  to  each  other, 
"There's  Mrs.  Lempcke's  quilt.  It  didn't  get  a  prize.  Look  at  that  big 
pincushion  with  the  blue  tag  on  it.  Do  you  think  that's  so  pretty  as 
all  that?"  Mollie  brought  some  things  once  or  twice,  but  Emma  said, 
"Ach,  I  ain't  got  time  for  all  such  things." 

The  children  always  teased  for  more  money  than  August  would 
give  them— wanted  lemonade  and  wanted  to  go  into  all  the  shows. 
The  older  children  now  began  to  go  by  themselves.  Mary  and  Elva 
went  with  two  "fellows"  in  a  buggy,  and  Frank  teased  for  grandpa's 
old  one-seated  buggy  so  that  he  could  take  his  girl.  The  parents  would 
meet  the  young  people  about  the  fair  grounds,  four  or  six  going 
around  together,  Elva  always  giggling  and  "carrying  on"  until  Emma 
was  ashamed  of  her.  They  saw  them  at  the  lemonade  and  the  ice-cream 
stands,  and  saw  them  carrying  toy  balloons.  But  they  never  met  Frank 
and  his  girl.  They  didn't  know  where  those  two  kept  themselves. 

August  and  Emma  never  went  anywhere  without  the  children  ex- 
cept once  to  "open-air  conference"  down  in  the  Turkey  timber. 
While  they  were  gone,  Elva  and  the  two  little  ones  came  down  with 
scarlet  fever.  Emma  said  she'd  never  try  that  again.  It  was  worse  than 
staying  at  home. 

Then  grandma  had  the  "stroke"  that  they  had  all  been  looking 
for.  She  was  completely  paralysed,  and  never  got  out  of  bed  again. 
She  didn't  seem  to  realize  much,  but  she  never  let  anyone  but  Emma 
do  things  for  her,  except  that  she  wanted  August  to  turn  and  lift  her. 
She  was  in  bed  for  five  years. 

Emma  lived  between  bedroom  and  kitchen,  the  kitchen  a  narrow, 
low-ceiled  room,  calcimined  in  green,  the  little  window  with  gera- 
niums in  tin  cans  looking  out  across  the  back  yard  to  the  small 
orchard. 

Emma  always  said  that  these  were  the  hardest  years  of  all. 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  265 

III:    LOOSENING  UP 

Things  were  a  little  easier  after  grandma's  death.  At  first  Emma 
could  scarcely  realize  that  she  could  really  leave  the  place,  that  when 
she  worked  she  needn't  always  have  the  feeling  that  she  ought  to  go 
in  and  look  at  grandma.  In  a  way  she  missed  the  fact  that  grandma 
no  longer  needed  her.  But  grandma  had  scarcely  been  a  person  to 
anyone  for  the  last  five  years— only  a  responsibility,  a  gnawing  sense 
of  worry  under  everything.  Nearly  all  the  feeling  connected  with 
grandma  had  been  fear,  defence,  rebellion,  care,  worry.  Emma  could 
not  help  feeling  the  relief  that  slowly  seeped  through  everything. 

Grandpa  they  didn't  mind,  he  made  so  little  trouble.  He  stayed 
about  the  same,  as  Emma  told  people,  except  that  he  seemed  in  a 
way  to  have  withdrawn  himself  to  a  greater  distance,  that  he  seemed 
to  be  living  in  some  region  of  his  own.  Only  when  some  old  friend 
or  neighbour  came  out  occasionally,  and  they  got  to  talking  of 
religion,  he  would  come  out  of  his  dreams.  They  could  hear  him 
praying  aloud  in  his  room  sometimes,  the  children  coming  in  wide- 
eyed  and  whispering,  "Mamma,  listen  to  grandpa  in  there!"  "Unser 
Vater  .  .  .  in  dem  Himmel/'  the  German  words  sounding  rich,  feel- 
ing, even  in  his  thin,  high-pitched  voice,  with  long  pauses  between. 
He  sat  nearly  always  in  his  own  room.  Marguerite  was  bigger  now, 
she  didn't  need  him.  He  looked  just  about  as  when  he  had  first  come 
to  the  farm— tall,  thin,  bent,  with  his  narrow,  lined  face  and  white 
beard,  thin,  silvery  hair,  his  deep-burning,  dark  eyes. 

August  was  getting  a  few  things  now.  He  was  putting  improve- 
ments on  the  place.  He  had  put  up  the  big  new  barn,  and  Hans 
Stille,  who  was  keeping  some  bees  now  and  doing  a  little  farming 
over  on  the  other  side  of  Richland,  had  come  for  the  summer  again 
and  made  over  the  old  buildings.  August  had  all  the  farm  buildings 
painted  white,  but  the  house  would  have  to  wait  awhile  for  its  new 
coat.  They  had  a  good  milk-separator  now,  and  Hans  had  fixed  up  a 
milk-house  for  them.  August  kept  everything  in  fine  repair.  He  kept 
all  his  machinery  under  cover,  had  no  old  ploughs  and  shredders 
standing  about  in  the  grove,  like  Herman  Klaus  and  some  other 
farmers.  But  he  did  not  do  much  to  the  house.  He  had  put  in  a  sink 
in  the  kitchen,  with  a  wooden  cupboard  underneath,  and  a  soft- 
water  pump.  That  was  about  all. 

August  and  Emma  had  been  too  busy  really  to  know  that  they 
were  getting  older.  They  had  to  look  at  the  children  to  realize  that. 
Emma  looked  older.  Her  hair  was  getting  grey.  She  had  always  been 
slender,  but  she  began  to  take  on  flesh  now.  People  joked  her  about 


266  RUTH  SUCKOW 

it.  said,  "You're  getting  fleshy,  ain't  you?  You  must  be  makin'  the 
girls  do  the  work  for  you."  She  said,  without  rancour,  that  she 
guessed  she'd  always  been  on  her  feet  too  much  to  get  any  flesh  be- 
fore. She'd  run  it  all  off.  It  made  her  look  older  instead  of  younger, 
dumpy  and  shapeless  and  middle-aged.  She  had  to  put  on  glasses, 
too.  She  should  have  done  so  long  ago.  She  ordered  a  pair  from  a 
man  who  came  around  with  a  little  card  testing  eyes,  and  who  fitted 
people  out  with  glasses  cheap.  But  when  farmers  who  had  known 
August  Kaetterhenry  around  Turkey  Creek  happened  to  meet  him 
in  town,  they  said,  "Well,  you  ain't  got  so  much  older  a'ready,  Au- 
gust." He  looked  a  little  heavier,  his  neck  creased  and  red,  but  in 
general  about  the  same. 

It  was  the  children  who  were  changing.  Frank  was  a  man  now, 
they  had  to  realize,  although  he  was  a  short  little  fellow  and  didn't 
look  any  older  than  Carl  when  you  saw  them  out  in  the  field  to- 
gether. He  had  once  wanted  to  be  a  mechanic,  but  he  had  given 
up  that  notion  and  was  going  to  get  married  and  settle  down  to 
farming.  He  had  been  going  with  the  same  girl  for  five  or  six  years 
now— Lottie  Schenck,  a  heavy,  coarse,  hard-working  girl.  People  were 
all  asking  when  the  wedding  was  to  be. 

August  would  miss  Frank  when  he  left  the  place,  but  Carl  and 
Johnnie  would  help.  Johnnie  might  take  hold  better  if  Frank  wasn't 
there  to  do  things.  He  was  the  restless  one.  Neither  of  the  other  boys 
could  be  relied  upon  quite  so  much  as  Frank.  They  hadn't  been 
brought  up  to  work  so  hard.  But  August  always  believed  that  Carl 
would  make  a  better  farmer  than  Frank  when  he  settled  down  to  it. 
It  was  hard  to  tell  about  Johnnie. 

Frank  was  looking  around  for  a  place  to  farm.  August  was  doing 
most  of  the  looking,  however.  He  had  always  wanted  to  get  hold  of 
the  next  piece  of  land,  where  those  LaRues  had  lived,  and  now, 
finally,  the  last  of  them  was  pulling  out  and  going  to  Colorado.  He 
took  the  farm  for  Frank.  Frank  was  to  pay  him  back  eventually  in 
the  form  of  rent.  August  wanted  to  see  the  boy  get  a  good  start.  He 
might  be  realizing  a  little,  although  he  didn't  admit  it,  that  he  had 
been  harder  on  Frank  than  on  the  other  boys.  And  he  didn't  mind 
having  that  other  two  hundred  acres.  It  was  a  good  investment,  and 
made  him  the  owner  of  four  hundred  acres  of  the  best  land,  all  there 
together.  It  gave  him  an  excuse,  too,  to  say  to  the  family,  who  were 
getting  to  want  too  many  things,  "Needn't  ask  for  that  until  I've  got 
back  some  of  what  I  paid  for  Frank's  farm." 

Mary  was  the  one  who  was  giving  them  trouble.  More  than  Elva 
now,  who  had  been  inclined  to  be  wild  and  to  run  around  with  fel- 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  267 

lows  whom  her  parents  couldn't  approve.  Mary  had  always  been 
such  a  good  child  except  for  that  weakness  for  reading.  The  only 
time  they  had  had  any  trouble  with  her  had  been  when  she'd  been 
determined  to  study  to  be  a  teacher  and  to  go  to  the  little  Methodist 
academy  at  Wesley.  August  had  said  that  she  could  teach  country 
school  without  going  there.  He  had  too  many  children  to  send  them 
away  to  school.  She'd  settle  down  and  marry  like  the  rest  of  them, 
and  there'd  be  his  money  wasted.  She  had  seemed  to  give  that  up 
and  not  to  say  anything  more  about  it.  She  had  taken  to  dress- 
making a  little,  had  gone  about  to  the  neighbouring  farms  as  people 
called  for  her.  Of  course  she  hadn't  made  much  at  it,  because  she 
was  just  Mary  Kaetterhenry,  someone  whom  they  all  knew;  but  it 
had  given  her  something  to  do  and  got  that  crazy  notion  out  of  her 
head. 

But  now  she  began  to  have  some  queer  spells.  No  one  knew  what 
to  call  them.  The  neighbour  women  were  all  interested,  wondered 
if  they  could  be  fits,  wanted  to  know  all  the  symptoms.  She  would 
get  pale  and  seem  to  stiffen  out.  The  neighbours  all  advised  different 
things,  brought  over  remedies  that  had  helped  them.  August  and 
Emma  bought  her  large  bottles  of  "nerve  tonic"  at  the  drug-store, 
but  that  didn't  seem  to  help.  They  were  frightened,  even  to  the  ex- 
tent of  hitching  up  and  taking  her  in  to  old  Dr.  Bowen's  office  in 
Richland.  He  gave  them  a  prescription,  but  he  didn't  seem  to  know 
much  more  than  they  did  what  was  the  cause  of  the  thing.  They 
"kind  of  lost  confidence  in  Bowen,"  they  said.  A  neighbour  told 
them  about  this  new  "rubber  doctor"  in  "Wapsie,"  and  how  he  had 
cured  her  brother's  wife.  Mary  wanted  to  try  him.  They  took  her 
into  "Wapsie."  He  told  them  that  some  bone  was  out  of  place  and 
was  pressing  on  a  nerve;  and  although  they  didn't  see  how  that  had 
caused  the  spells,  they  thought  they'd  try  him.  He  wanted  Mary  to 
come  in  twice  a  week  for  treatment.  $1.50  a  treatment,  a  lot  of 
money  to  pay  for  that  little  rubbing,  but  they  were  worried  now. 
For  a  time  it  seemed  that  the  treatments  were  helping  her.  Then  all 
at  once  she  got  worse  than  ever.  They  heard  of  a  place  over  across 
the  river  in  Wisconsin  where  they  gave  mud  baths  that  were  supposed 
to  cure  anything.  Despite  the  expense,  they  sent  her  there.  When 
she  came  back  she  was  better— she  had  never  been  away  from  home 
before— but  she  was  told  to  take  it  easy,  not  do  much  of  the  work. 

It  had  shaken  them  up  a  good  deal  to  have  Mary  go  back  on  them. 
It  made  them  more  careful  with  the  other  children.  Elva  was  going 
with  Roy  Robbins,  but  it  didn't  seem  as  if  Mary  was  going  to  get 
married.  They  let  her  go  over  to  visit  her  Aunt  Sophie  Klaus  at 


268  RUTH  SUCKOW 

Turkey  Creek.  Then  August  let  her  go  in  to  Rapids  City  and  take  a 
sewing-course.  That  was  the  most  like  going  away  to  school  of  any- 
thing she  had  ever  had.  She  improved  after  that,  but  she  was  not 
strong.  She  was  like  Grandpa  Stille,  tall,  slender,  black-haired,  with 
bright,  shy,  dark,  intelligent  eyes. 

Elva  married  when  she  was  just  a  girl.  She  had  stopped  the  country 
school  long  ago.  Her  parents  wondered  how  she  would  like  it  when 
she  had  everything  to  do  herself.  They  thought  that  she  and  Roy 
would  make  a  queer  set  of  farmers.  They  were  both  so  flighty.  But 
they  started  in  immediately  to  raise  a  family,  and  that  steadied  them 
down. 

Elva  was  the  one  who  complained  most  that  the  younger  ones 
"had  it  pretty  easy."  It  was  true;  August  was  not  so  hard  upon  Carl 
and  Johnnie  as  he  had  been  upon  Frank.  Things  were  easier  on  the 
farm.  Carl  and  Johnnie  didn't  have  to  stay  out  of  school  and  help 
with  the  farm  work,  as  Frank  had  done. 

Frank  felt  himself  at  a  disadvantage  with  the  younger  boys.  They 
grew  up  into  big,  blond,  good-looking  boys.  They  didn't  mingle 
much  with  the  older  ones.  They  kept  to  themselves  and  seemed  to 
enjoy  things  together.  Frank  was  a  little  shy  with  them  because  they 
had  gone  to  school  so  much  more  than  he  had.  Frank  had  had  to 
quit  the  country  school  at  what  would  have  been  about  the  seventh 
grade  in  town. 

The  roads  were  better  now.  It  was  easier  to  get  about.  There  were 
more  horses  on  the  farm,  and  there  was  grandpa's  old  one-seated 
buggy.  August  let  the  boys  take  that  and  Nell,  one  of  the  old  horses, 
and  drive  in  to  Richland  to  school.  More  and  more  country  children 
were  doing  that  now  that  the  high  school  gave  a  full  course.  The 
boys  took  Marguerite  as  far  as  the  country  school.  She  was  too  little 
to  go  into  town  yet,  and  by  the  time  that  she  was  ready,  probably 
they  would  have  this  new  consolidated  school  against  which  August 
was  voting  because  of  the  taxes. 

August  didn't  know  how  it  would  be  in  the  winter.  The  first  winter 
the  boys  tried  to  drive  back  and  forth  the  five  miles.  The  next  year 
they  stayed  in  town  until  spring,  at  the  Henry  Stilles',  where  they 
kept  the  fires  going  and  looked  after  the  chickens  and  the  cow  and 
chopped  the  wood.  They  could  go  to  the  high-school  parties,  and 
play  basket-ball,  go  around  with  the  town  "kids."  Johnnie  had  a 
town  girl,  and  so  did  Carl  part  of  the  time.  But  he  still  went  to  see 
Clara  Josten,  in  the  country,  when  he  and  Johnnie  went  home  on 
Friday  night,  and  he  took  her  to  box  socials  in  the  country  schools. 
August  grumbled  about  the  boys— ach,  they  thought  they  had  to  have 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  269 

everything;  didn't  know  anything  but  basket-ball  any  more.  But  he 
was  proud  of  them. 

It  was  entirely  different  with  Marguerite  than  with  the  older  girls. 
She  had  everything,  it  seemed,  that  Mary  and  Elva  hadn't  had.  Elva 
grudged  it  to  her,  said,  "I'd  like  to  see  what  pa  would  have  done  to 
us  if  we'd  asked  for  just  half  the  things  she  does!"  But  she  was  so 
much  the  youngest,  the  baby  and  the  pet,  that  it  seemed  natural  that 
they  should  give  her  things.  Mary  made  all  her  clothes  for  her,  fitting 
her  out  regularly  every  spring  and  fall,  and  watching  the  dresses  of 
the  little  girls  at  Sunday  school  to  get  ideas  for  her.  They  liked  to 
"dress  baby  up."  The  whole  family  were  proud  of  her  hair,  a  thick, 
blond  fuzz  that  couldn't  be  braided,  and  at  which  everyone  looked, 
saying,  "Hey,  there,  curly-head!"  They  all  knew  that  "baby"  could 
get  things  out  of  August.  He  grumbled,  but  when  he  knew  that  the 
cloth  that  Mary  wanted  to  buy  was  to  make  "baby"  a  dress,  she  was 
sure  to  get  it.  He  even  let  Marguerite  take  lessons  on  the  organ  from 
Miss  Grace  Bracebridge,  who  drove  about  through  the  country  with 
a  pony  and  buggy  teaching  music. 

August  listened  to  the  younger  boys  as  he  had  never  done  to  Frank, 
although  he  was  still  close  and  kept  things  in  his  own  hands.  The 
boys  saw  how  other  people  did  things.  They  tried  to  get  their  father 
to  "loosen  up  a  little,"  to  get  things  that  other  farmers  were  getting. 
When  they  talked  with  their  mother  about  it,  she  said,  looking  fright- 
ened, "Ach,  how  can  we  afford  all  that?"  The  boys  hadn't  grown  up 
with  any  such  awe  of  money  matters.  Emma  had  no  idea  of  what  the 
family  resources  were;  she  would  never  have  dared  to  ask.  But  the 
boys  seemed  to  know,  somehow  or  other,  what  their  father  could  do, 
how  much  he  had.  They  scoffed,  to  Emma's  scared  delight,  and  said, 
"Aw,  pa  could  have  lots  of  things  if  he'd  just  loosen  up  and  get  them. 
We  don't  need  to  do  things  this  way.  Pa's  so  afraid  he's  going  to  take 
a  cent  out  of  the  bank.  He's  got  more  than  most  farmers  have.  He 
could  put  up  a  silo  if  Uncle  Willie  did.  Why  couldn't  he?"  "Ach!" 
Emma  said,  frightened;  but  it  pleased  her. 

They  were  beginning  to  get  things.  August  began  to  try  out  new 
machinery.  He  put  up  a  silo.  One  thing  meant  another.  The  boys 
kept  talking  gasolene-engines.  It  was  crazy  to  pump  all  their  water 
and  turn  the  separator  by  hand.  They  couldn't  get  August  to  say  any- 
thing. They  needn't  think  that  he  would  do  whatever  they  wanted. 
But  he  had  been  talking  to  Art  Miller  in  Richland,  who  was  han- 
dling the  Porter  lights,  and  one  summer  he  had  his  own  electric  plant 
installed  on  the  farm.  He  didn't  have  the  house  wired  at  once,  but 
they  had  lights  in  the  barn  and  ran  all  their  machinery  by  electricity. 


2jo  RUTH  SUCKOW 

August  wanted  his  farm  to  have  what  other  farms  had,  but  he  hated 
to  dig  into  that  pile  in  the  bank.  He  knew  how  much  work  it  had 
taken  to  put  it  there.  No  one  worked  harder  for  their  money  than 
die  farmers  did.  He  must  think  of  his  old  age.  They  wanted  to  take 
it  easy  some  day.  He  didn't  want  to  find  himself  with  as  little  as 
Grandpa  Stille  had. 

He  kept  on  digging.  He  worked  as  hard  as  he  had  ever  done,  except 
that  he  had  the  boys  to  help. 

The  greatest  change  came  when  he  bought  the  Ford.  August  had 
been  one  of  those  who  kept  his  old  horses  as  long  as  he  could,  but  he 
had  to  come  to  the  automobile,  like  the  rest  of  the  farmers.  He  went 
into  "Wapsie"  one  Saturday  and  looked  at  cars.  He  had  the  agent 
take  him  out  and  teach  him  how  to  drive  that  afternoon,  and  he 
drove  the  car  home  at  night.  The  family  came  out  into  the  yard.  The 
children  shouted,  "Mamma,  see  what  pa's  got!"  August  drove  proudly, 
scowling,  not  sure  whether  he  could  miss  all  the  buildings  and  stop 
where  he  wished.  The  boys  ran  up  to  ask  excitedly,  "Can  you  stop 
her,  pa?  Hey,  look  out  for  that  wagon!  Where' d  you  get  her?  How 
much  was  she?"  After  August  went  into  the  house  they  stayed  out 
there,  looking  the  little  five-passenger  car  all  over,  testing  the  wheels, 
examining  the  engine. 

"]a,  I  s'pose  they'll  think  it's  theirs  now,"  August  grumbled. 

Emma  declared  at  first  that  she  would  never  go  in  the  car.  Her 
timidity  delighted  all  of  them.  The  boys  could  take  the  auto;  she 
would  drive  with  the  horses  and  the  old  buggy.  "Ach/'  she  said,  "I 
don't  trust  those  things.  You  read  about  accidents  all  the  time." 
"Well,  mamma,  horses  can  run  away,  too.  Old  Dick  ran  away  with 

Frank."  "]a9  but  then "  But  the  children  teased  her  so  much  that 

she  finally  consented  to  get  into  the  car.  "Now,  ain't  this  better  than 
the  old  buggy?"  the  boys  demanded.  "Ja,  well  it  ain't  so  bad,  I  guess," 
was  all  that  they  could  get  her  to  say.  She  never  really  liked  the  car. 
She  was  always  nervous  and  looking  out  for  accidents.  For  some  rea- 
son she  didn't  believe  that  August  could  learn  to  be  a  good  driver. 
"Achy  it's  so  late  for  him  to  learn!"  She  had  never  been  afraid  when 
he  had  a  hand  on  the  reins  when  they  had  gone  out  with  the  horses. 
After  the  boys  learned  to  drive,  she  liked  it  better.  She  said  it  seemed 
more  natural  for  young  folks  to  learn  things  like  that.  She  had  faith 
in  Carl  and  Johnnie.  But  when  she  went  with  August,  she  always 
kept  one  hand  on  the  seat  ready  to  open  the  door  and  jump  out.  And 
although  he  got  to  handle  the  car  in  any  kind  of  weather  and  on  any 
kind  of  roads,  as  all  farmers  did,  August  never  did  drive  as  well  as 
the  boys.  They  could  seem  to  get  the  thing  cranked  when  he  couldn't. 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  271 

It  was  a  knack  they  had.  Emma  noticed  that  he  was  ready  to  let  them 
do  the  driving  when  he  could. 

The  car  meant  that  they  could  get  away  from  the  farm.  They  went 
into  town  oftener.  They  drove  to  Elva's  and  Frank's  and  Mol lie's. 
The  relationship  nearly  always  had  Sunday  dinner  together  now. 
They  went  into  church  more  regularly,  and  to  other  things  in  town- 
basket-ball  games  to  see  the  boys  play,  the  lecture  course. 

They  even  took  a  little  trip,  the  first  time  they'd  really  been  away 
from  the  farm.  Once  after  harvest  they  left  the  boys  to  look  after  the 
farm,  and  August  and  Emma  and  Marguerite  drove  down  to  Turkey 
Creek  and  visited  all  of  August's  folks.  The  old  man  Kaetterhenry 
was  dead,  of  course,  but  most  of  August's  brothers  and  sisters  were 
still  living  about  there.  It  was  a  beautiful  time  of  the  year.  The  au- 
tumn was  lovely  there  in  the  timber,  among  the  hills.  They  all  drove 
out  for  picnics  together.  They  made  plans  with  Sophie  and  her  hus- 
band to  drive  to  the  "Picture  Rocks"  on  the  Mississippi  some  year, 
stopping  at  the  little  old  town  of  Guttenberg,  where  their  folks  had 
stopped  when  they  came  up  the  Mississippi  and  had  bought  their  first 
farm  implements. 

Then  the  road  past  the  farm,  between  Richland  and  "Wapsie,"  was 
made  a  highway.  That  dreadful  hill  by  Ed  Hunter's  farm  was  graded 
down  so  that  no  one  need  be  afraid  of  it  any  more.  The  old  country 
road  was  widened  and  ditched  and  gravelled;  the  tall  black-eyed 
Susans  and  the  sweet  clover  were  ruthlessly  slashed  down  into  dusty 
stubble.  Although  August  fought  the  highway  and  joined  other  farm- 
ers in  grumbling  at  the  taxes,  still  "it  made  it  handier."  They  went 
into  "Wapsie"  often,  although  they  still  did  most  of  their  trading  in 
Richland,  believing  it  must  be  cheaper  there,  since  the  stores  had 
fewer  goods  and  they  were  set  out  with  less  style. 

That  used  to  be  a  country  road  along  which  occasional  wagons  and 
buggies  jolted.  Now  it  was  a  gravelled  highway,  "Primary  Road  5." 
Cars  flashed  down  it  all  day,  and  on  Sundays  in  the  summer  there 
was  a  constant  stream  of  travel.  Head-lights  and  wind-shields  gave  off 
sharp  white  flashes  as  cars  whirred  past  on  the  light-coloured,  glitter- 
ing gravel.  It  was  a  wonder  to  Emma  to  sit  on  the  porch  on  Sunday 
afternoons  and  count  how  many  vehicles  went  by.  But  Grandpa 
wouldn't  even  try  to  count.  "Ach,  no!  no!  no!"  was  all  that  he  would 
say.  This  was  all  so  wicked  on  Sunday! 

August  had  kept  his  hands  on  other  things,  but  he  couldn't  keep 
the  boys  from  using  the  car.  When  they  took  their  girls,  it  wTasn't 
an  all-day  occasion,  as  when  Frank  had  got  grandpa's  old  buggy  to 
drive  Lottie  to  the  fair.  They  went  out  on  Sunday  afternoons  when 


272  RUTH  SUCKOW 

they  felt  like  it.  August  would  go  out  and  find  the  car  gone  again. 
It  was  no  use  trying  to  stop  them.  Emma  thought  it  dreadful  for  the 
boys  to  "pleasure-drive  on  Sunday,"  against  which  the  Richland 
Methodist  church  was  making  a  last  futile  stand,  as  against  cards  and 
dancing;  but  both  she  and  August  got  used  to  it.  All  the  young  people 
seemed  to  do  it.  But  one  thing  August  said:  if  he  ever  heard  of  his 
boys  driving  to  a  Sunday  base-ball  game,  they  could  never  have  the 
car  again. 

Grandpa  never  grew  accustomed  to  all  this.  He  was  now  too  mild, 
too  feeble  and  withdrawn,  to  protest  much  against  it;  but  he  would 
say  sadly,  when  he  saw  that  the  boys  were  gone,  "Ach,  no!  no!  das 
ist  nicht  gut."  And  sometimes,  sitting  alone  in  the  big  rocker  in  his 
gloomy  little  room,  he  would  mutter,  "Nein,  nein,  das  ist  nicht  gut/' 

IV:     THE  WAR 

The  first  years  of  the  war  didn't  affect  the  Richland  farmers  very 
much.  It  seemed  far  away  from  them.  "  Ach,  over  there  in  those  old 

countries "  August  said  with  a  kind  of  contemptuous  blankness. 

The  men  talked  about  it  down  at  the  implement  store  and  at  the 
produce  house.  They  said  that  this  country  would  never  be  involved. 
They  were  opposed  to  that,  the  farmers,  as  they  were  opposed  to  any- 
thing that  seemed  unsettling.  They  were  a  conservative  bunch  about 
Richland. 

August  had  at  first  only  a  slight  German  feeling.  Many  of  the  farm- 
ers around  Richland  were  English,  and  there  had  always  been  a  little 
line  of  cleavage  between  the  English  and  the  German  farmers.  Some- 
times, when  August  heard  old  Roland  Yarborough  "blowing  off" 
about  how  wicked  the  Germans  were,  and  that  they  ought  all  to  be 
exterminated,  it  made  him  hot  for  a  moment,  made  him  feel  that 
he  was  a  German.  All  the  feeling  that  he  had  was  naturally  and  in- 
stinctively on  the  side  of  Germany.  But  most  of  the  farmers  were 
agreed.  "Well,  they've  got  to  fight  it  out  among  themselves.  It's  their 
business;  'tain't  ours."  That  was  the  way  that  August  felt.  He  went 
about  his  own  business. 

Grandpa  was  the  one  who  got  excited.  The  old  man,  so  withdrawn, 
his  inner  life  known  now  to  no  one  but  himself,  buried  in  strange 
dreams  and  prayers  and  fervours,  now  suddenly  came  back  to  the 
world.  It  was  as  if  all  at  once  childhood  things,  which  had  long  been 
buried,  came  surging  to  the  surface  and  overwhelmed  him  with  mem- 
ories. He  went  back  to  his  boyhood  in  that  little  village  in  Mecklen- 
burg whose  name  the  boys  had  never  heard  before.  Now  he  was 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  273 

always  talking  about  it— Gultberg.  "Ja,  in  Gultberg  den "  "Gult- 

berg?  What's  that?  What's  he  talking  about?"  the  boys  asked,  half 
amused.  This  was  all  far  away  to  them.  It  tiekled  them,  they  said,  to 
see  "grandpa  get  himself  all  worked  up"  over  something  he  had 
painstakingly  read  in  the  paper;  come  tottering  out  from  his  room, 
in  his  old  felt  slippers  and  patched  brown  trousers,  his  dark,  sunken 
eyes  burning,  shaking  one  long,  bony  ringer  and  pouring  out  a  lot  of 
broken  English  and  German  that  they  could  only  half  understand. 
"Are  de  Germans  so  bad,  den?  Mein  oldt  Vater,  mein  Uncle  Carl,  I 
remember  in  de  old  country,  were  dey  den  all  such  bad  men?  No, 
no."  They  would  listen,  grinning  a  little,  until  he  was  exhausted  and 
would  go  back  to  his  room,  shaking  his  head  and  mourning  sadly, 
"Ach,  no,  nein/'  to  sit  in  the  old  rocker,  sadly,  his  hands  in  his  lap, 
muttering  as  he  used  to  do  about  the  Sunday  travel. 

Emma  tried  to  calm  him;  she  was  afraid  that  the  excitement  would 
hurt  him.  She  couldn't  see  why  he  was  so  affected  by  this,  by  things 
so  far  away;  but  of  course  he  was  thinking  about  his  old  home. 

But  when  this  country  went  in,  all  this  was  changed.  Then  feelings 
that  had  never  been  known  before  were  all  about.  Then  the  taunts, 
the  talk  about  Huns  and  Boche,  made  farmers  like  August  for  the 
first  time  actually  realize  their  German  ancestry.  August  had  always 
taken  it  for  granted  that  he  belonged  in  this  country.  They  awoke  a 
deep  racial  resentment  that  could  not  come  flaring  out  into  the  open 
but  had  to  remain  smouldering,  and  that  joined  with  the  fear  of 
change,  the  resentment  at  interference,  into  a  combination  of  angry 
feelings. 

This  centred  chiefly  in  a  deep  opposition  to  the  draft.  To  have 
someone  tell  his  boys  to  do  this  and  that!  To  take  away  his  help  on 
the  farm  just  when  he  needed  it  most!  To  have  somebody  just  step  in 
and  tell  them  where  they  had  to  go!  Was  that  what  happened  in  this 
country?  Why  had  his  people  left  the  old  country,  then,  if  things 
were  going  to  be  just  the  same? 

Carl  was  twenty-three  now,  Johnnie  twenty.  Carl's  was  among  the 
first  three  names  drawn  in  Richland,  where  he  had  to  register.  It  was 
on  the  list  in  the  post  office— Carl  Kaetterhenry,  along  with  Ray  Pow- 
ers and  Jay  Bennett,  the  preacher's  son.  August  stormed,  wanted  to 
know  what  right  the  Government  had.  But  Carl  took  it  quietly. 
There  was  no  use  kicking,  he  said.  His  name  happened  to  be  one 
drawn,  and  that  was  all  there  was  to  it. 

What  roused  August  to  the  greatest  anger  was  that  Harlan  Boggs, 
the  banker's  son  in  "Wapsie,"  should  get  exempt,  while  his  boy  had 
to  go.  Harlan  Boggs  had  appealed  to  the  board  and  got  exemption 


274  RUTH  SUCKOW 

on  the  grounds  that  he  couldn't  be  spared  from  the  bank  because  of 
Liberty-bond  work.  But  it  didn't  matter  to  the  board,  August  said, 
that  he  couldn't  get  help  and  that  they  should  take  his  boy  right  in 
the  midst  of  the  harvest  season.  Johnnie  was  working  for  Frank  that 
year,  and  Carl  was  the  only  one  he  had  on  the  farm.  They  said,  "Pro- 
duce, produce,"  but  how  was  he  going  to  do  it  when  he  got  no  help? 
There  was  all  this  talk  about  the  women  working  on  the  farms,  but 
August  didn't  see  many  of  those  high-school  girls  from  Richland  com- 
ing out  and  offering  to  do  his  threshing  for  him.  Where  were  all 
these  women  working,  then? 

Grandpa  quieted  down  after  he  learned  that  this  country  was  in 
the  war;  regarded  with  a  hurt,  sorrowing,  bewildered  wonder  that  it 
should  be  fighting  Germany.  That  was  all  that  mattered  to  him,  all 
that  he  could  see  of  it.  Carl  went  in  to  say  good-bye  to  him,  em- 
barrassed and  a  little  afraid  of  what  grandpa  might  do.  The  old  man 
rose  from  his  chair,  holding  it  by  one  arm,  and  quietly  shook  Carl's 
hand.  Then  he  returned  to  his  solitary  brooding.  It  was  strange  and 
remote,  the  touch  of  that  dry,  aged,  bony  hand,  although  grandpa 
had  been  there  in  the  house  ever  since  Carl  could  remember. 

The  train  left  in  the  early  morning.  August  drove  his  family  in, 
Emma  and  Carl  and  Marguerite.  Johnnie  and  Frank  and  Frank's  wife 
came  in  Frank's  car;  Mary  and  Elva  and  Roy  in  Roy's.  There  was  a 
little  group  at  the  small  wooden  station:  the  other  two  boys  and  their 
families,  a  few  people  from  town,  one  or  two  detached  travelling  men. 
The  family  stayed  awkwardly  in  the  depot,  didn't  know  what  to  do 
or  to  say  to  one  another.  Johnnie  and  August  went  out  to  see  if  the 
train  was  in  sight. 

Just  before  the  train  came— the  morning  Clipper,  the  Chicago 
train,  by  which  clocks  were  set  and  rising  timed— old  Jerry  McGuire 
the  postmaster,  an  old  Catholic  who  had  come  into  office  when  "the 
Democrats  came  in,"  lined  the  three  boys  up  on  the  station  platform 
and  read  the  President's  Proclamation  to  them.  It  was  a  strange,  sol- 
emn, unreal  scene.  Even  the  people  who  saw  it  didn't  believe  in  it. 
The  three  boys  standing  there,  their  figures  against  the  dim  red  of 
the  harvest  sunrise,  with  solemn  blank  faces,  frowning  a  little  to  keep 
down  any  signs  of  emotion.  One  of  the  mothers  sobbed.  Emma  wept 
only  a  little,  effacing  herself  even  now.  Carl  looked  big  and  fresh  be- 
tween the  other  two  boys,  Jay  Bennett,  a  thin  boy,  dissipated  in  a 
small-town  way;  Ray,  gawky  and  sunburned,  with  a  wild  head  of 
hair.  Carl  was  such  a  big,  sturdy  boy!  He  had  his  father's  fresh- 
coloured  skin,  only  finer-grained,  rough  light  hair,  full  boyish  lips, 
and  clear  blue  eyes. 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  275 

The  little  town  was  silent.  Away  from  the  station  stretched  pas- 
tures, the  dew  lying  wet  and  heavy  on  red  clover  and  tall  weeds.  The 
train  came  bearing  down  upon  them,  pulling  out  blackish  smoke  into 
the  pale  morning  sky.  It  went  black  and  big  into  the  red  prairie- 
sunrise.  The  fields  were  left  silent  again.  The  scattered  group  of 
people  on  the  platform  got  into  their  battered  cars  and  drove  back 
home  to  the  morning  chores. 

When  Johnnie  had  to  go,  they  were  more  used  to  it. 

It  was  a  queer  time  at  home.  It  was  so  strange  to  be  without  the 
boys!  August  was  a  big,  vigorous  man,  but  now  he  realized  for  the 
first  time,  now  that  he  had  everything  to  do  alone,  that  he  was  getting 
older.  He  had  never  stopped  working  hard;  but  now  he  saw  that,  strong 
and  dogged  as  he  was,  he  couldn't  quite  do  the  work  he  had  done  in 
those  days  when  they  first  went  on  the  farm.  He  didn't  even  think  of 
getting  Emma  out  into  the  field  now.  "Mamma"  belonged  in  the  house. 

The  feeling  of  the  neighbourhood  against  the  German  farmers  had 
grown  to  a  degree  that  would  have  seemed  incredible  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  war.  August  "got  off  easy"  compared  with  some  of  them. 
He  had  two  boys  in  the  service,  he  could  keep  his  mouth  shut,  he 
bought  Liberty  bonds,  although  he  didn't  like  to  be  told  to  do  so. 
If  it  had  not  been  for  Carl  and  Johnnie  in  the  army,  he  might  have 
refused,  like  old  Rudolph  Haas,  out  of  pure  Kaetterhenry  stubborn- 
ness. It  was  the  thought  of  Carl  and  Johnnie  that  kept  him  from  flar- 
ing up  too  fiercely  when  the  boys  yelled  at  him,  when  he  drove  into 
Richland,  "Hey,  Dutchy!  Old  Dutchman!  Old  Dutchy  Kaetter- 
henry!" Once  or  twice  he  threatened,  and  started  after  them;  but  usu- 
ally he  only  glared  at  them,  smothering  his  impulse  to  fight.  Some  of 
the  other  German  farmers  came  up  before  the  board  because  of 
things  they  had  said,  or  were  reported  to  have  said.  Old  Haas's  corn- 
crib  was  burned.  But  nothing  worse  happened  to  August  than  being 
yelled  at  on  the  street  and  finding  painted  in  crude  red  letters  on  his 
barn:  "Old  Dutchy  Kaetterhenry.  Hun.  Bosh.  Look  Out." 

They  were  having  terrible  times  down  around  Turkey  Creek,  which 
was  solidly  German,  and  where  there  had  been  more  resistance  to  the 
draft.  One  of  August's  brothers  had  been  threatened.  A  mob  of  boys 
and  men  from  "Wapsie"  had  gone  down  there  one  night  and  tarred 
and  feathered  the  preacher  at  the  old  Turkey  Creek  German  church. 

August  kept  himself  in  hand  because  of  the  boys  and  because  of 
the  way  Emma  worried.  And  underneath  all  his  anger  was  a  strange, 
hurt,  puzzled  incredulity.  Hadn't  he  lived  here  all  his  life,  been  born 
twenty  miles  from  here?  Didn't  everybody  know  August  Kaetter- 
henry? Hadn't  he  been  a  good  farmer  and  citizen  and  church-member 


276  RUTH  SUCKOW 

all  his  life?  There  was  at  the  same  time  something  fiercely  real  and 
yet  utterly  incredible  about  the  whole  thing. 

Emma  worried  about  the  boys.  She  never  heard  the  telephone  ring 
that  she  didn't  think  it  might  be  a  message  for  them,  as  their  neigh- 
bour, Mrs.  Griffin,  had  got.  She  knew  now  that  of  all  the  children 
Johnnie  was  her  boy,  just  as  Carl  was  August's.  Carl  was  steadier  and 
more  level-headed.  She  had  a  feeling  that  Carl  would  take  care  of 
himself,  that  nothing  would  happen  to  him.  But  Johnnie— he  would 
go  rushing  into  everything. 

It  was  long  since  she  had  done  the  milking  and  all  such  work.  De- 
spite having  less  cooking  and  washing  to  do,  it  was  hard  on  her.  She 
was  ailing  more  or  less,  although  she  kept  up.  That  old  trouble  that 
she  had  sometimes  had  before  came  back  on  her.  "Spells  with  her 
stomach,"  she  called  it.  The  family  had  long  supposed  that  these 
spells  were  just  something  that  mamma  had,  but  now  she  told  Mollie 
that  August  wanted  to  get  the  doctor  out  for  her.  She  always  said, 
"Ach,  no.  Wait  awhile.  I  guess  it  won't  last  long."  Then  she  would 
feel  better  again. 

Things  were  strange  all  about  these  days.  One  of  the  queerest 
things  that  happened  was  Mary's  marriage.  Years  ago  Mary  had  gone 
with  Joe  Fields.  He  used  to  take  her  to  the  county  fair  when  Roy 
took  Elva.  But  then  Mary  had  wanted  to  go  to  school,  and  Joe  had 
married  Ada  Griffin.  He  was  a  widower  now,  with  four  little  chil- 
dren. Mary  was  "sewing  around."  People  hadn't  even  known  that 
Joe  was  "looking  in  that  direction"  again.  But  all  at  once  he  and 
Mary  turned  up  at  the  Kaetterhenry  farm  married!  Well,  the  family 
were  glad  that  she  was  settled,  although  they  didn't  see  how  she  was 
going  to  be  strong  enough  to  do  all  that  work  and  look  after  those 
four  children.  But  she  and  Joe,  it  seemed,  had  always  liked  each 
other,  although  once  Mary  had  wanted  a  different  kind  of  man  from 
Joe.  The  family  thought  it  was  a  good  thing  to  have  her  settled  down 
at  last.  This  was  something  to  write  the  boys,  if  it  didn't  take  them 
so  long  to  get  their  mail  that  it  would  be  old  before  they  heard 
of  it. 

Carl  had  gone  into  the  army  first,  but  Johnnie  got  across  before 
he  did.  Carl  had  his  father's  knack  with  horses.  They  kept  him  down 
at  one  of  the  Southern  camps  training  new  recruits  to  handle  the 
horses.  Johnnie  was  in  the  machine-gun  division.  He  was  right  in 
the  thick  of  it,  as  they  thought  Johnnie  would  be  sure  to  be.  He  was 
wounded  once,  but  his  family  didn't  hear  of  it  until  he  was  back 
in  the  righting  again.  Carl  just  got  across  when  the  armistice  was 
signed. 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  277 

Carl  came  back,  ready  to  settle  down  for  good,  saying  that  this  old 
Iowa  farm  looked  better  to  him  than  any  place  he  had  ever  seen  or 
hoped  to  see.  That  went  far  to  soothe  August's  anger.  Carl  hadn't 
been  at  home  three  weeks  when  he  married  his  old  girl  in  the  coun- 
try, Clara  Josten,  and  brought  her  out  to  the  farm  until  he  and  she 
could  find  a  place  of  their  own. 

But  Johnnie  was  different.  He  was  restless.  He  was  reported  cured 
of  his  wound,  but  they  could  see  that  he  was  nervous,  jumpy,  not  the 
boy  that  he  used  to  be.  He  couldn't  seem  to  be  still  a  minute.  He  was 
always  running  off  with  the  car  and  going  to  town.  The  car  was  the 
only  thing  in  which  he  was  interested.  August,  who  was  a  cautious 
driver,  grumbled  about  the  way  that  Johnnie  drove,  with  all  the  gas 
on,  muffler  open,  fenders  rattling,  making  that  old  car  go  at  top 
speed  every  moment.  Johnnie  went  over  to  help  Frank  again.  They 
thought  that  maybe  that  might  help  to  give  him  a  change  and  quiet 
him  down.  But  at  the  height  of  the  season  he  suddenly  walked  out 
and  went  into  Richland,  where  he  got  a  job  at  the  garage  with  the 
Beal  Brothers. 

August  shared  in  the  high  prices  and  the  land  boom  that  raged  in 
Iowa  after  the  war.  He  had  an  offer  of  five  hundred  dollars  an  acre 
for  the  farm.  It  dazzled  him,  but  still  August  was  too  cautious  to  sell. 
And  if  he  did,  then  what  would  he  do?  It  was  a  better  piece  of  land 
than  he  could  pick  up  again.  Roy  Robbins  and  Elva  did  sell  their 
farm,  but  then  the  slump  in  prices  came,  and  the  man  couldn't  make 
payments,  and  they  had  it  back  on  their  hands  again.  There  was  a 
piece  of  land  down  near  Turkey  Creek,  however,  that  old  Casper 
Kaetterhenry  had  left  to  the  children;  the  second  wife  had  got  the 
home  farm.  August  and  his  brother  Heinie  bought  that  piece  from 
the  others  and  sold  it  when  prices  were  at  the  peak. 

War-time  feelings  died  out,  but  a  little  of  the  old  resentment 
stayed.  August  never  felt  quite  the  sense  of  home  and  security  in 
Richland  Township  that  he  had  felt  before. 

PART     THREE 

I:    OPERATION 

Carl's  wife  was  a  great  help  in  the  house.  She  was  much  like  Carl 
himself,  fresh-faced,  light-haired,  rather  quiet,  but  good-tempered 
and  sturdy  and  vigorous.  At  first  Emma  tried  to  treat  her  like  com- 
pany, but  Clara  said  that  she  was  used  to  doing  things  and  really 
tried  to  take  some  of  the  hardest  work  off  Emma's  hands.  Emma  had 
always  had  the  feeling  that  she  must  be  responsible  for  all  that  wTas 


278  RUTH   SUCKOW 

done  in  the  house.  But  now  she  let  Clara  do  things  for  her.  She  told 
the  relatives  she  "liked  Carl's  wife  real  well.  She  was  nice  to  have 
around." 

The  family  thought  that  Emma  might  get  to  feeling  better  now 
that  the  boys  were  at  home  again  and  she  didn't  have  all  that  worry. 
But  she  was  still  miserable.  People  noticed  that  she  didn't  look  well; 
said,  "Ain't  you  thinner  than  you  been  the  last  few  years?  What  they 
been  doing  to  you?"  August  was  slow  to  believe  anything  really  wrong 
with  any  of  his  family.  But  he  did  see  that  Emma  didn't  look  right. 

Then  she  was  "right  down  sick."  August  didn't  know  when  Emma 
had  ever  really  given  out  before,  and  it  frightened  him.  He  asked  her 
if  she  didn't  want  to  try  that  place  where  Mary  had  gone.  The  neigh- 
bours and  relatives  all  came  in  to  help  and  advise.  They  all  said 
wisely  that  it  was  something  that  had  better  be  looked  after.  They 
told  about  Mrs.  Ed  Kohler.  None  of  these  doctors  could  help  her, 
and  old  Bowen  had  said  she  was  dying,  until  she  had  gone  up  to 
the  clinic  at  Rochester.  Others  had  gone  there,  as  formerly  they  had 
tried  patent  medicine  and  mud-baths.  People  talked  Rochester, 
Rochester,  until  August  asked  Emma,  "Well,  do  you  think  you'd  like 
to  go  up  there,  then?"  She  said,  as  she  always  did,  "Ach,  I  don't 
know."  But  he  could  see  that  she  rather  wanted  to  go.  All  the  chil- 
dren urged  it.  They  wanted  August  to  take  her  there.  Carl  and  Clara 
could  look  after  the  farm.  Finally  August  said  he  guessed  he'd  take 
her  up  there. 

It  was  the  greatest  journey  that  they  had  ever  taken  together.  Au- 
gust had  gone  to  Chicago  once  with  stock  during  the  war,  and  when 
she  was  a  little  child  Emma  had  come  out  to  Iowa  from  New  York 
with  her  parents;  but  they  had  never  gone  farther  on  the  train  to- 
gether than  to  Dubuque,  about  thirty  miles  away. 

Everyone  knew  that  he  was  taking  her  to  Rochester.  People  who 
had  been  there,  or  had  had  members  of  their  family  there,  came  over 
to  tell  Emma  details  of  operations.  When  they  saw  that  she  was  get- 
ting frightened  they  said,  "Well,  now,  maybe  you'll  find  it's  just  some 
little  thing  that  don't  need  an  operation,  like  Myrtie  Rohrer." 

It  seemed  to  Emma  and  August  that  they  were  taking  a  terrible 
and  final  journey.  Carl  drove  them  to  the  station.  They  were  taking 
Marguerite  with  them.  Clara  stood  in  the  kitchen  doorway,  her  arms 
hugged  in  her  apron,  because  the  March  wind  was  cold.  As  Carl 
cranked  the  car  and  hurried  around  to  the  side  to  get  in,  she  waved 
her  arm  and  called,  "Don't  worry  about  your  chickens."  Emma  asked 
fearfully,  "What's  that  she  said?"  "Said  not  to  worry  about  your 
chickens,  mamma."  They  drove  out  through  the  deep,  black,  sticky 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  279 

mud  of  their  own  drive,  out  to  the  highway,  with  its  brown  gravel 
gritty  and  wet  in  the  sharp,  windy  March  air. 

At  the  station  they  felt  a  faint  importance  and  pride  when  August 
told  the  people  who  inquired,  "Ja,  I'm  takin'  her  up  to  Rochester; 
see  if  those  fellows  can't  help  her  some  a'ready." 

The  children,  too,  felt  pride  in  the  clipping  from  the  Richland 
Banner  that  they  sent  on  to  the  folks  up  at  Rochester. 

"Mr.  and  Mrs.  August  Kaetterhenry  left  Tuesday  for  Roches- 
ter, Minn.,  to  consult  the  Drs.  Mayo  in  regard  to  her  health. 
Mrs.  Kaetterhenry  has  been  in  poor  health  for  some  time,  and  it 
is  hoped  by  her  many  friends  that  she  will  find  speedy  relief  at 
this  famous  establishment." 

The  trip  up  to  Minnesota,  bleak  and  sharp  as  the  weather  was,  had 
interest  for  them.  It  was  almost  the  first  time  that  they  had  been  in 
any  other  State  than  Iowa.  August  was  in  the  smoking-car.  He  came 
back  and  said  to  Emma  and  Marguerite,  "Do  you  know  you're  in 
Minnesota  a'ready?"  "Oh,  are  we?"  Emma  looked  out  of  the  window. 
She  thought  with  a  thrill,  "We're  in  another  State!"  August  kept 
watching  to  see  how  the  country  looked,  and  whether  things  were  as 
far  along  up  here  as  he  had  left  them  back  there.  He  saw  some  nice 
farms,  he  said.  But  the  land  was  flatter  than  around  home,  and  a  fel- 
low to  whom  he  had  been  talking  told  him  that  they  had  more  wind 
up  here.  August  said  he  didn't  think  he'd  like  to  live  where  they  were 
all  Swedes  and  Norwegians.  He  hadn't  seen  any  farm  yet  that  looked 
better  than  his  own  in  Richland  Township. 

They  took  the  journey  in  the  day  coach  and  thriftily  ate  the  lunch 
that  Clara  and  Lottie  had  put  up  for  them,  taking  the  fried  chicken 
out  of  the  pasteboard  box  and  telling  Marguerite  to  brush  the  crumbs 
off  the  dusty,  red  plush  seat.  They  looked  like  country  people,  August 
heavy  and  silent,  his  farmer's  red  neck  showing  rough  and  creased 
above  his  collar  in  the  back,  in  his  heavy  coat  and  overshoes  and  cap; 
Emma  subdued  and  uncertain  over  the  journey,  looking  with  a  kind 
of  fearful  curiosity  at  the  other  people  in  the  train;  a  sickly  woman 
with  greyish  hair  and  old-fashioned  glasses,  in  a  stiff,  black  velvet 
hat  and  an  old  black  coat  of  some  imitation  fur  with  old-fashioned 
sleeves  gathered  slightly  at  the  top,  a  black  skirt  that  came  down  to 
her  rubbers,  black  golf  mittens.  Even  Marguerite  looked  a  little 
coarse  and  sullen,  with  her  blue  knitted  tarn  pulled  down  upon  her 
bright  fuzz  of  hair. 

They  went  to  a  boarding-house  where  some  of  their  neighbours 


280  RUTH  SUCKOW 

had  gone,  one  that  was  said  to  be  clean  and  that  didn't  charge  as 
much  as  some.  It  was  just  as  good  as  anybody 'd  want,  Mrs.  Griffin  had 
told  them.  It  was  snowing  when  they  got  there,  as  they  wrote  back  to 
the  children,  and  they  trudged  up  through  the  dismal  streets,  with 
their  left-over  dingy  snow,  August  carrying  the  two  suit-cases  that 
Carl  and  Johnnie  had  let  them  have.  The  boarding-house  was  an  old- 
fashioned,  brown  frame-house  close  to  the  medical  buildings.  Mar- 
guerite shared  a  room  with  an  excitable,  talkative  woman  who  took 
pride  in  being  in  Rochester  for  the  fourth  time.  She  told  Marguerite 
all  about  her  different  doctors,  saying  happily,  "I  said  when  I  come 
in,  'Well,  doctor,  you've  got  me  back  again,  you  see.'  Dr.  Barnard 
knew  me  right  away.  Well,  he'd  ought  to;  this  is  the  fourth  time  I 
been  in  Rochester.  He's  had  to  examine  me  twice  before  his-self.  He 
says,  'Well,  Miss  Parmenter,  I  see  I  have.  What  do  you  mean  by 
this?'  He's  awful  good-natured;  not  like  some.  Always  a-jokin'  you 
when  you  come  in  there." 

The  Kaetterhenrys  had  nothing  to  say  to  the  other  boarders  at  first. 
They  ate  in  silence,  asking  one  another  in  hushed  voices  for  butter 
or  bread.  But  they  had  to  wait  several  days  until  they  could  have 
their  turn  at  the  clinic.  One  of  the  women  who  sat  in  the  shabby 
boarding-house  parlour,  with  its  ancient  furnishings,  began  to  talk  to 
Emma.  "You  here  on  your  own  account?"  she  said.  "I  thought  you 
was  the  one.  What's  your  trouble?"  They  talked  over  symptoms  to- 
gether. The  woman  told  Emma  what  she  must  expect  in  going 
through  the  clinic,  and  terrified  her  with  descriptions  of  all  the  tests 
that  she  herself  had  had  to  have,  leaving  out  no  detail.  She  thought 
that  Emma  must  have  just  what  her  cousin's  wife  had  had,  and  she 
had  spent  four  months  in  the  hospital  and  now  was  going  to  have 
to  come  again.  At  night  Emma  and  August  talked  over  the  boarders 
together  in  their  room,  in  hoarse  whispers,  Emma  telling  what  she 
had  gleaned  of  where  this  one  lived,  what  that  one's  husband  did, 
what  was  the  matter  with  another  one. 

They  started  in  at  the  clinic  at  last,  when  Emma  was  afraid  that 
"mister  would  get  restless  and  want  to  go  home  if  they  didn't  get  in 
pretty  soon."  When  the  girl  at  the  desk  asked  them  for  what  they  had 
come,  they  said— looking  at  each  other  as  if  the  other  one  might  know 
—they  didn't  know,  that  was  what  they  wanted  to  find  out.  She  sent 
them  patiently  to  the  abdominal  section,  which  was  a  good  guess  for 
most  farmer  people.  Emma  took  the  tests,  while  August  stolidly  waited 
in  the  lobby  of  the  clinic  building,  with  his  overcoat  thrown  open 
and  his  cap  on  his  knee.  Emma  wanted  him  around.  He  did  not  take 
an  interest  in  watching  the  people,  as  she  would  have  done,  but  he 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  281 

liked  to  see  how  the  building  was  put  up,  to  calculate  how  much 
space  and  how  many  rooms  they  must  have  and  how  many  people 
there  must  have  been  going  through  it  to-day. 

He  was  just  where  Emma  had  left  him.  He  said,  "Well,  what'd  he 
tell  you?"  "Ach,  I  got  to  see  another  one  to-morrow." 

Gradually  they  felt  themselves  drawn  into  the  life  of  the  place. 
It  was  an  experience  to  them,  more  than  the  mud-baths  had  been  to 
Mary.  Although  they  were  bashful  and  ill  at  ease  away  from  home,  it 
was  not  so  hard  getting  acquainted  as  they  had  thought.  People  talked 
to  them— the  boarders,  people  who  happened  to  sit  near  them  in  the 
clinic— and  wore  away  their  country  shyness.  Emma  felt  a  kind  of 
enjoyment  in  talking  over  the  tests  she  had  taken,  and  the  doctors  she 
had  seen,  with  three  or  four  other  people  who  sat  in  the  boarding- 
house  parlour  with  the  landlady  and  talked.  Her  ailments  had  never 
had  any  importance  before.  They  always  asked,  when  she  and  August 
came  in,  "Well,  still  taking  tests?"  "Ja,  I  guess  that's  what  she'll  al- 
ways be  doing,"  August  answered.  Emma  smiled  shyly.  The  boarders 
thought  that  that  Mrs.  Kaetterhenry  was  a  real  sweet  little  person. 
Even  August  fell  into  conversation  with  a  fat  man  who  sat  next  him 
in  the  clinic  and  who  was  also  waiting  for  his  wife.  They  talked  about 
their  wives'  illnesses,  and  the  man  told  how  the  crops  had  been  in 
Wisconsin.  August  had  some  conversation  with  a  fellow  from  Texas 
that  gave  him  a  travelled  feeling.  Marguerite  went  to  the  movies  and 
into  the  shops  with  Miss  Parmenter,  who  flew  about  town  buying 
squares  to  make  drawn-thread  handkerchiefs  in  the  intervals  of  ex- 
aminations. 

The  strange  and  unaccustomed  thing  was  the  importance  of  Emma. 
August  and  Marguerite  counted  for  nothing  beside  her  here,  were 
merely  here  to  be  with  her.  It  was  a  new  idea  to  both  of  them,  and 
to  Emma,  too.  August  went  in  with  her  to  the  doctor  who  had  ex- 
amined her  to  hear  the  verdict.  He  did  not  make  a  murmur  about 
the  expense,  although  it  was  all  so  much  more  than  he  had  figured 
on.  Emma's  value  was  strangely  enhanced  in  his  eyes  when  the  doctor, 
a  large,  well-groomed,  imposing  man  with  a  courteous  manner  that 
made  Emma  admire  him,  spoke  respectfully  of  "Mrs.  Kaetterhenry," 
outlined  her  condition,  and  said  that  she  must  go  at  once  to  the 
hospital. 

The  boarders  all  said,  "Gall-bladder  operation!  Well,  that's  just 
what  I  thought  from  what  she  told  me,"  although  the  woman  who 
had  thought  that  Emma  had  her  cousin's  wife's  ailment  was  dis- 
appointed and  unconvinced.  This  was  a  respectable  and  well-known 
operation,  and  it,  too,  seemed  to  raise  Emma's  value  in  some  strange 


282  RUTH  SUCKOW 

way.  The  boarders  were  interested,  helped  Marguerite  to  pack  her 
mother's  suit-case  for  the  hospital,  reassured,  and  condoled. 

Emma  seemed  still  more  removed  from  their  common  ways  of  life 
when  she  entered  the  hospital.  August  went  into  her  room  for  a 
while,  a  small  double  room,  Emma's  bed  across  from  another  bed 
where  a  woman  with  a  long,  meager  braid  lay  and  talked  in  sepul- 
chral whispers  with  a  visitor  in  a  hat  with  green  plumes.  Emma 
looked  changed,  in  the  narrow,  white  iron  bed,  so  immaculate,  dif- 
ferent from  their  puffy  feather-bed  at  home,  without  her  spectacles, 
her  thin  grey  hair  neatly  parted  and  braided  by  the  nurse.  Both  she 
and  August  felt  a  mysterious  fear  of  "the  sisters"  who  glided  about 
the  halls  in  their  robes  and  rosaries.  They  had  always  felt  a  fascinated 
horror  of  the  wickedness  of  the  Catholics. 

"It  kind  o'  makes  me  creepy  to  have  them  around  here,"  Emma 
protested. 

"Ach,  I  guess  they're  all  right.  He  wouldn't  'a'  sent  you  here  if 
they  wasn't,"  August  said. 

All  this  whiteness  and  immaculateness  seemed  great  splendour  to 
them. 

Emma  had  her  operation  the  next  day.  August  was  really  fright- 
ened then.  The  boarders  all  reassured  him,  all  told  of  the  wonders  of 
the  surgeon.  August  had  seen  him  for  a  moment  in  the  hospital— a 
short,  plump,  very  clean  man,  exhaling  a  kind  of  unshakable  vigour. 
August  felt  a  tremendous  awe  of  him.  They  both  trusted  him  in  the 
blind  way  that  they  trusted  their  Methodist  God,  because  they  must. 
It  helped  August,  fed  his  pride,  that  his  wife  was  to  have  a  famous 
surgeon.  But,  although  he  said  little,  he  was  shaken.  Emma  had  made 
him  promise  to  be  right  there.  It  seemed  now  that  August  mattered 
more  to  her  than  Marguerite. 

He  waited  in  the  sun  parlour.  He  had  never  gone  through  such 
an  endless  morning.  He  tried  to  think  about  the  farm,  about  what 
crops  he  would  put  in  this  summer;  but  under  everything  was  a  sink- 
ing, sickening  dread  in  which  he  would  suddenly  be  submerged.  He 
was  silent,  turning  his  cap  upon  his  knee.  Marguerite  sat  restlessly 
beside  him.  She  could  not  keep  her  hands  still,  fingered  her  dress  and 
her  beads  and  her  handkerchief.  People  were  wheeled  past  from  the 
operating-room— mounds  of  white,  some  silent,  some  moaning.  Au- 
gust looked  at  his  watch.  He  went  through  terror.  It  shouldn't  have 
taken  as  long  as  this.  Something  must  have  gone  wrong.  He  tiptoed 
down  the  hall  to  Emma's  room.  Her  bed  was  still  empty. 

The  nurse  came  for  them  at  last.  They  went,  solemn,  shaken,  on 
tiptoe,  into  Emma's  room.  They  felt  awed,  taken  aback,  at  the  sight 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  283 

of  her  strange,  pinched,  colourless  face  at  which  they  stood  awk- 
wardly gazing. 

"You  can  speak  to  her,"  the  nurse  said  encouragingly.  August  was 
terribly  in  awe  of  Emma.  He  did  not  know  what  to  say. 

"Well,  it's  over,"  he  said  finally. 

"J a,  I  guess  so,"  Emma  whispered. 

Marguerite  stood  looking  sullen  and  angry  in  her  fright.  She 
hardly  dared  go  near  her  mother,  kissed  her  quickly,  barely  touching 
her  cheek,  when  the  nurse  said  that  she  might.  They  stared  awhile 
longer,  tiptoed  out. 

The  excitement  of  the  day  died  down.  The  boarders  all  said, 
"Well,  she  got  through  it  all  right,  I  see.  Sure.  I  knew  she  would. 
Well,  now  you  must  telegraph  the  folks  at  home.  I  expect  there'll  be 
some  pretty  anxious  folks." 

It  was  the  first  telegram  that  August  had  ever  sent.  "Operation 
over  mamma  doing  fine."  That,  too,  gave  him  importance. 

After  that  August  and  Marguerite  went  twice  a  day  to  the  hospital 
in  the  motor-bus  that  ploughed  clumsily  through  the  spring  mud. 
August  always  felt  big  and  awkward  and  out  of  place  in  that  silent 
building,  but  he  got  to  know  the  faint  odour  of  drugs.  He  recognized 
some  of  the  people  who  always  went  up  in  the  elevator  with  him  and 
felt  a  kind  of  kinship  with  them.  He  even  felt  less  awe  of  the  gliding 
sisters.  He  wasn't  dreadfully  abashed  now  at  the  woman  in  the  other 
bed,  who  talked  to  him  and  Emma,  called  him  Mr.  Kaetterhenry. 

Emma  now  seemed  to  belong  to  the  place.  She  said  that  they  were 
nice  to  her.  She  took  with  shy  gratitude  the  first  attention  and  pet- 
ting that  she  had  had  since  she  was  a  girl,  with  a  kind  of  feeling  that 
she,  a  married  woman  and  mother,  shouldn't  have  it,  but  a  feminine 
pleasure  in  it.  The  nurses  liked  her.  They  were  good  to  her,  petted 
and  cared  for  her  in  a  way  that  made  Marguerite  look  at  them  wide- 
eyed,  remembering  that  this  was  mamma.  It  was  so  strange  to  see 
mamma  waited  on  and  of  first  importance!  The  other  woman  in  the 
room  was  fretful  and  exacting.  Emma  was  such  a  contrast  to  her  that 
the  nurses  appreciated  her  all  the  more.  They  told  her  she  mustn't 
be  afraid  to  ask  for  what  she  wanted,  and  they  liked  her  shyness  and 
fear  of  giving  them  trouble. 

For  the  first  time  Emma  had  a  life  in  which  family  were  outsiders. 
She  had  a  kind  of  intimacy  with  the  nurses,  and  with  the  very  spruce, 
black-haired  young  intern  who  came  in  and  jested  with  her  in  a  kind 
of  fond  teasing  way  that  greatly  flattered  her.  He  never  did  learn  how 
to  pronounce  her  name,  and  called  her  blithely  "Mrs.  Katterhenry," 
at  which  she  was  too  shy  to  protest. 


284  RUTH  SUCKOW 

As  Emma  grew  better  and  his  fright  died  down,  poor  August 
hardly  knew  what  to  do  with  himself.  He  never  had  been  without 
work  before  in  his  life.  He  had  never  had  a  real  vacation  from  the 
farm  except  that  drive  down  into  the  Turkey  timber,  and  then  he 
had  had  the  car  to  look  after  and  had  still  talked  crops  with  his 
brothers.  When  he  could  not  be  at  the  hospital,  he  hung  about  the 
boarding-house,  yawned,  sat  drearily  while  the  others  were  gossiping. 
He  had  never  been  a  talker.  He  couldn't  find  the  interest  in  the  dis- 
cussion of  ailments  that  the  others  did,  since  he  had  never  had  any 
of  his  own.  Now  that  he  knew  what  it  was,  that  Emma  was  getting 
better,  he  was  no  longer  interested.  There  was  no  one  just  now  to 
talk  crops  with  him.  That  was  the  longest  three  weeks  he  had  ever 
spent.  He  would  rather  have  been  threshing.  The  boarders  said, 
"Well,  I  expect  you're  getting  anxious  to  get  back  to  your  work  now, 
Mr.  Kaetterhenry."  He  said,  ja,  he  was.  He  worried  about  how  Carl 
was  managing  the  farm.  He  would  have  gone  back  if  Emma  hadn't 
begged  him  to  stay. 

The  boarders  said  encouragingly,  when  they  saw  his  restlessness, 
"Oh,  the  vacation'll  do  you  good."  "J  a,  but  I've  had  about  enough 
of  it,  though,"  he  said. 

Emma,  too,  said  that  she  was  anxious  to  get  back  home,  but  in  a 
way  she  was  having  the  best  time  that  she  had  had  for  years.  She  was 
taking  her  leisure  with  a  clear  conscience.  She  had  never  been  treated 
with  such  consideration.  She  really  hated  to  leave  the  nurses  and  the 
young  intern. 

When  she  got  back  to  the  boarding-house  most  of  the  boarders  who 
had  been  there  before  her  operation  were  gone.  Miss  Parmenter  had 
left  much  disappointed  because  they  had  told  her  that  she  didn't  need 
an  operation;  a  little  medicine  was  enough.  Dr.  Barnard  had  gone 
down  in  her  estimation.  Emma  missed  the  care  and  attention  which 
had  embarrassed  her  so  at  first.  She  missed  the  visits  of  the  young 
intern,  with  his  flattering  jests.  The  boarding-house  seemed  dreary. 

The  specialist  at  the  clinic  had  a  talk  with  August  before  they  left 
for  home.  August  listened,  subdued  and  respectful.  The  doctor  said 
that  he  "anticipated  no  trouble,"  but  that  Mrs.  Kaetterhenry  must 
do  no  heavy  work  this  summer  and  must  take  things  very  easily. 
August  heard  him  uneasily,  agreed,  "Ja,  I  guess  we  can  manage  that." 
Something  in  it  appealed  to  his  sturdiness  and  reliability,  his  feeling 
of  protection.  Down  underneath  was  a  little  feeling  of  bewildered 
guilt.  This  thing  had  opened  August's  eyes  a  little. 

They  went  back  to  Richland  feeling  journeyed  and  full  of  Roches- 
ter. August  was  glad  to  get  back  to  the  farm  and  plunged  at  once  into 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  285 

the  late  spring  work.  Emma  was  fearful  of  her  strength  at  first.  She 
remembered  the  admonitions.  Clara  said,  "Now,  mamma,  we  mustn't 
let  you  overdo."  But  when  Emma  got  home,  into  the  familiar  routine, 
she  threw  off  invalid  ways.  She  had  always  worked  here.  They  couldn't 
keep  her  from  doing  things.  No  one  knew  the  people  of  whom  she 
talked  in  Rochester.  The  surgeon,  the  doctors,  meant  nothing  to 
Clara  and  Carl.  The  event  of  her  home-coming  was  soon  over.  She 
settled  down  into  the  old  ways  again.  She  didn't  go  around  telling 
everyone  of  her  operation,  as  Mrs.  Griffin  had  done,  but  the  experi- 
ence stayed,  sharp  and  momentous,  in  her  mind. 

August,  too,  was  a  little  different.  He  seemed  to  accept  with  relief 
her  settling  back  into  the  role  of  mamma.  But  he  was  more  thought- 
ful of  her.  He  asked  her  if  she  couldn't  let  Clara  do  this  or  that.  He 
saw,  they  all  saw,  that  she  wasn't  equal  to  the  things  that  she  used 
to  do. 

August  had  worried  about  the  farm.  But  when  he  came  back  to  it 
he  couldn't  find  anything  very  wrong  with  Carl's  management. 
Things  seemed  to  look  as  usual.  That  summer  Carl  kept  on  with 
some  of  the  things  that  he  had  been  doing  that  August  had  never 
entrusted  to  any  of  the  boys  before. 

Those  years  of  the  war,  when  he  had  had  everything  to  do,  had 
tired  August.  He  had  always  intended  to  retire,  take  it  easy,  when 
he  could  afford  it;  but  all  these  things  brought  him  to  it  now.  He 
announced  to  Emma  one  day  that  they  might  move  into  town  and 
leave  the  farm  to  Carl. 

II:    TOWN 

The  chief  question  was  what  they  should  do  with  grandpa  if  they 
left  the  farm.  He  had  lived  in  that  little  room  so  long!  He  was  over 
eighty  now.  It  would  be  hard  for  him  to  make  any  change.  He 
wouldn't  want  to  go  to  town  with  them;  he  was  used  to  the  country. 
Clara  and  Carl  said,  "Let  him  stay  here,"  but  Emma  hated  to  do 
that.  He  was  getting  so  old  now  and  might  need  a  good  deal  of  care 
before  long;  and  they  were  young  people,  and  didn't  want  to  be  tied 
to  the  place.  Grandpa  ought  to  have  some  of  his  own  children  to 
look  after  him.  August  thought  that  Herman  and  Mollie  ought  to 
take  care  of  him  now.  They  had  let  Emma  have  the  whole  care  of 
both  grandma  and  grandpa  always.  Now  it  wouldn't  hurt  Mollie  to 
do  something  for  her  father.  The  old  man  would  be  no  expense  to 
them.  He  had  a  tiny  income  from  bits  of  his  land  that  had  been  left 
to  him,  enough  to  buy  tobacco  for  him  and  Die  Flammende  Fackel, 
and  the  few  clothes  and  things  that  he  needed.  Now  August  and 


286  RUTH  SUCKOW 

Emma  were  going  into  town  to  take  it  easy.  Emma  wasn't  going  to 
be  saddled  with  the  care  of  grandpa,  August  said,  as  she  had  been 
with  grandma. 

They  took  grandpa's  belongings  over  to  Mollie's  one  day  in  the 
motor-truck  that  Johnnie  had  assembled  from  an  old  engine  and 
various  miscellaneous  parts:  the  ancient  rope-bed  with  the  feather- 
mattresses,  the  two  wooden  rocking-chairs,  the  commode  and  little 
old  mirror,  the  air-tight  stove,  the  ancient,  faded  books.  Mollie  and 
Herman  made  little  trouble  about  taking  him.  They  would  probably 
not  move  off  the  farm  for  years  yet.  They  couldn't  afford  it.  Herman 
hadn't  done  as  well  as  August  had.  The  Klauses  had  taken  things 
more  easily  all  along,  were  more  happy-go-lucky  and  not  such  work- 
ers as  the  Kaetterhenrys.  They  were  easy-going  people,  Herman  a 
little,  lean  man  with  kindly,  childlike  eyes  and  a  kind  of  innocence 
of  speech,  Mollie  short  and  fat  and  shapeless,  waddling,  good-hearted. 
Their  farm  had  a  dingy  old-fashioned  house  set  close  to  a  scraggly, 
tangled  willow  grove  where  the  ground  seldom  got  a  chance  to  dry 
and  the  blackbirds  were  noisy.  They  used  a  gasolene  engine  for  some 
of  their  work,  but  they  had  no  silo,  no  lights,  and  only  the  old  red- 
painted  barn.  Farm  implements  stood  about  the  worn,  grassless  farm- 
yard. August  had  always  despised  Herman  a  little  for  being  so  easy- 
going and  not  getting  anywhere.  They  put  grandpa's  things  into 
their  own  downstairs  bedroom,  moving  up  themselves  into  the  room 
that  Ernie,  their  son,  had  had,  and  saying,  "Ach,  we  don't  care.  We 
can  get  along  anywhere." 

Emma  felt  a  dreadful  sense  of  guilt  and  desertion  in  leaving  her 
father  there.  Not  that  Herman  and  Mollie  wouldn't  be  good  to  him. 
But  she  knew  how  things  went  at  Mollie's.  It  didn't  seem  right  to 
have  him  anywhere  but  in  that  room  where  he  had  lived  so  long.  But 
August  said  it  would  have  to  be  that  way. 

The  Kaetterhenrys  moved  to  town  in  the  late  fall.  There  was  no 
house  that  they  could  get  to  rent.  They  had  to  take  rooms  in  old  Mrs. 
Freeman's  house  until  they  could  get  a  place  of  their  own.  Houses 
were  scarce  in  Richland,  where  little  business  was  done.  This  was  a 
small  house  in  the  south  part  of  town,  the  old  and  hilly  part  beyond 
the  railroad  tracks.  It  was  half-frame,  half-brick,  painted  a  cream- 
yellow.  They  lived  in  the  brick  half.  There  were  three  rooms.  They 
did  their  cooking  and  eating  in  one,  August  and  Emma  slept  in  an- 
other, and  Marguerite  had  a  cot  and  dresser  in  the  third,  which  was 
their  sitting-room.  The  rooms  had  the  old  square,  small-paned  win- 
dows, close  to  which  some  oak-trees  rustled  dry  leaves.  They  had  to 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  287 

get  all  their  water  from  the  pump  next  door.  They  had  a  stove  only 
in  the  room  where  Marguerite  slept,  except  the  little  oil-burner  in 
the  kitchen. 

Emma  didn't  know  just  what  August  intended  to  do,  whether  he 
meant  to  buy  or  to  build  a  house  of  his  own.  He  still  kept  all  such 
things  to  himself.  He  managed  all  the  money.  Once  Johnnie  said  to 
her  when  he  came  over,  "Heard  pa  was  trying  to  buy  one  of  those 
lots  over  by  Cunningham's."  "Ach,  is  he?"  she  said.  "Ja,  he  don't  tell 
me  nothing."  She  did  not  think  of  making  a  fuss,  as  some  would  have 
done,  but  no  one  suspected  the  resentment  that  lay  deep  under  her 
silence. 

The  children  all  said  cheerfully.  "Well,  mamma,  you  can  take  it 
easy  this  winter.  You  ain't  got  much  to  do  here."  She  said  a  little 
complainingly,  "No,  I  should  say  I  ain't.  I  wish  I  had  a  little  more." 
These  three  small  rooms  were  nothing  after  she  had  looked  after  a 
farm-house.  Of  course  there  were  the  meals  to  get,  and  they  were 
hard  to  cook  on  this  little  three-burner  oil-stove,  when  she  was  used 
to  her  big  range.  Johnnie  ate  with  them,  although  they  didn't  have 
room  for  him  to  stay  there. 

But  she  had  all  afternoon  to  herself  and  she  hardly  knew  what  to 
do.  It  was  a  long,  snowy  winter.  There  were  not  many  side-walks  in 
this  part  of  town,  and  it  was  hard  to  get  out  anywhere.  She  didn't 
see  the  children  as  often  as  she  had  in  the  country.  She  didn't  get  out 
to  Mary's  once  all  winter.  She  knew  a  few  people  in  town— her  two 
sisters-in-law,  Mrs.  Henry  and  Mrs.  Willie  Stille— but  this  was  too  far 
for  them  to  come  and  see  her  much.  She  had  a  cold,  and  didn't  even 
get  to  church  most  of  the  winter. 

Once  she  said  to  August: 

'Johnnie  says  you're  buying  one  of  them  lots  over  north." 
Ja,  I  guess  maybe,"  he  admitted. 

"Well,  are  we  going  to  build?" 

"I  guess  we  better  build.  They  ain't  no  good  houses  for  sale.  Why, 
don't  you  want  to  build?"  he  demanded. 

"Ach,  I'd  like  it,  I  guess.  I  just  wondered  what  you  was  doing." 

He  grunted.  But  she  had  to  find  out  from  the  children  that  he  had 
actually  bought  a  lot  and  that  he  was  ordering  lumber  from  the  Great 
Western  Lumber-yard.  Elva  demanded  angrily,  "Why  don't  pa  ask 
you  something  about  it?  You  ought  to  have  some  say-so  about  your 
own  house,  I  should  think.  I'd  like  to  see  Roy  do  that."  She  said, 
"Ach,  that's  the  way  he  always  does."  He  did  mean  to  let  her  have 
something  to  say  about  the  way  the  house  should  be  built,  but  buy- 


288  RUTH  SUCKOW 

ing  the  lot  and  things  like  that— he  couldn't  see  how  they  concerned 
her.  The  house  did,  of  course.  She  often  wondered  how  much  he 
had  to  pay  for  the  lot,  but  she  never  asked  him. 

August's  interest  was  all  in  the  new  house  now.  It  was  something 
to  build  up,  as  he  had  built  up  the  farm.  There  were  some  pictures 
of  houses  in  the  window  of  the  bank,  a  large  card  showing  four  of 
them,  all  planned  by  the  same  company,  all  more  or  less  on  the  bun- 
galow type.  August  went  in  several  times  to  look  at  them.  The  banker 
always  said,  "Sure!  Any  of  those  appeal  to  you,  Mr.  Kaetterhenry?" 
August  replied  cautiously,  "Ach,  I  don't  know.  I  ain't  quite  ready  to 
build  yet  a'ready."  "No,  no.  Well,  they're  pretty  nice  little  houses." 
"Ja,  they're  pretty  nice  all  right." 

When  he  had  got  his  mind  pretty  well  made  up,  he  asked  for  one 
of  the  sheets  with  the  pictures  and  took  it  home  to  show  to  Emma. 

"How'd  you  like  to  live  in  one  of  those?"  he  asked.  He  had  always 
had  a  kind  of  idea  that  when  he  came  to  town  he  would  put  up  a  big 
house,  one  like  Mr.  Nixon's,  the  banker's,  that  had  a  porch  all  the 
way  around.  But  it  seemed  that  they  weren't  putting  up  many  of 
those  houses  now.  Mr.  Nixon  sent  the  contractor,  Herb  Carter,  to 
see  them.  "Heard  you  folks  were  thinking  some  of  building."  Herb 
tried  to  get  them  to  put  up  a  pebble-dashed  bungalow,  like  the  one 
he  had  put  up  for  Dan  Myers  the  summer  before.  But  they  wouldn't 
agree  to  that.  Emma  wanted  an  upstairs.  August  wasn't  sure  that  he 
liked  this  pebble-dash.  It  was  a  pretty  new  thing,  and  he  wasn't  sure 
how  it  would  "hold."  They  compromised  on  a  kind  of  semi-cottage 
with  no  attic  and  three  small  upstairs  rooms. 

That  was  a  good  part  of  town  where  their  lot  was.  It  was  where 
the  building  would  be  going  on  now.  The  banker's  son,  Clarence 
Nixon,  owned  the  lot  next  to  theirs,  they  had  heard.  He  would  prob- 
ably build  as  soon  as  he  got  married.  There  was  no  house  so  far  on 
their  side  of  the  street  except  Tom  Cunningham's,  on  the  corner, 
and  that  faced  the  other  street.  There  were  no  trees  either— just  a 
short,  vacant  block,  beyond  which  were  pastures. 

They  began  work  on  the  house  as  soon  as  they  could  in  the  spring. 
Herb  Carter  had  a  lot  of  houses  to  build.  He  always  promised  more 
than  he  could  do.  But  they  got  along  because  August  did  so  much  of 
the  work  himself.  He  got  a  wagon  and  team  from  the  boys  and  hauled 
his  own  sand  and  earth  for  the  yard.  He  was  a  pretty  good  carpenter, 
handy,  as  many  Germans  are,  and  he  helped  with  the  lathing  and 
siding.  It  kept  the  men  on  the  job,  too,  to  have  him  there.  There 
wasn't  much  fooling  with  August  Kaetterhenry,  as  people  who  had 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  289 

had  to  deal  with  him  knew.  He  meant  to  have  the  house  ready,  so 
that  they  could  move  into  it  before  winter. 

The  boys  said  laughingly,  "Thought  pa  was  going  to  town  to  take 
it  easy.  He's  working  as  hard  as  he  did  on  the  farm.  I'd  want  to  be 
paid  good  and  plenty  before  I'd  take  to  hauling  all  that  dirt." 

But  August  liked  it.  The  house  rilled  up  the  blank  left  by  the 
farm.  It  fed  his  pride  to  be  putting  up  a  good  house,  showing  people 
that  he  could  afford  it.  There  was  the  thought  that  he  had  worked 
hard  for  this,  that  he  owed  most  of  it  to  himself.  People  said,  "You 
always  see  Mr.  Kaetterhenry  going  back  and  forth  from  his  new 
house.  It  must  be  going  up  pretty  fast.  They  say  it's  going  to  be 
nice." 

It  was  up  now,  although  the  finishing  wasn't  done  inside.  The 
Banner  had  an  item  about  it: 

"Mr.  August  Kaetterhenry  has  put  up  his  fine  new  house  in 
the  north  part  of  town  and  is  about  ready  for  the  finishing.  Mr. 
Kaetterhenry  says  that  the  first  of  October  will  see  them  estab- 
lished in  the  new  house." 

He  went  over  to  see  it  in  the  early  summer  evening,  to  take  some 
more  boards  over,  so  that  the  men  would  have  them  there  in  the 
morning,  but  really  to  see  how  the  place  looked  when  he  wasn't 
working  on  it. 

The  house  stood,  new,  bare,  bright,  on  the  raw  earth  that  was  lit- 
tered over  with  boards,  shavings,  pails  of  dirtyish  mortar.  It  had  had 
its  first  coat  of  paint,  the  upper  story  yellow,  and  the  lower  white. 
The  shingles  looked  brown  and  fresh  and  had  a  woody  smell.  The 
porch  roof  sloped,  and  there  was  one  of  those  dormer-windows  in 
the  centre  that  looked  as  if  it  had  slipped  down  half-way.  Narrow 
planks  that  bent  a  little  led  up  over  the  porch  steps  and  to  the  shin- 
ing front  door.  The  door  was  locked  now.  The  house  was  past  the 
stage  when  little  girls  could  go  in  and  find  shaving-curls  to  hang  over 
their  hair,  and  when  women  could  go  there  looking  around  and 
speculating  on  which  room  was  which. 

Inside,  the  house  was  new,  echoing,  still.  The  unstained  floors  and 
woodwork  made  August  feel  that  he  shouldn't  be  stepping  about  in 
his  heavy  shoes.  The  walls  were  rough,  white,  untinted.  The  bath- 
room was  finished,  although  chunks  of  plaster  lay  around.  He  was 
proud  of  the  shining  pipes,  the  white  porcelain  of  the  fixtures  still 
unwashed,  with  labels  sticking  to  it.  Another  thing  that  he  admired 


290  RUTH  SUCKOW 

was  the  colonnade  between  the  dining-room  and  the  living-room.  It 
seemed  queer  to  both  of  them  not  to  have  a  parlour,  but  that  was 
the  way  that  houses  were  being  made  now.  Although  he  had  worked 
on  this  house,  August  could  hardly  believe  in  it,  somehow,  and  that 
he  was  ever  going  to  live  here. 

There  were  some  small  boards  laid  over  the  stairs  to  keep  them 
clean.  He  thought  he'd  go  up  and  see  how  it  looked  up  there.  But 
he  did  not  stay  long.  It  was  dim  up  there,  more  silent,  and  his  shoes 
made  a  fearful  noise  as  he  creaked  from  room  to  room.  He  had  a 
stealthy  feeling,  as  if  someone  would  catch  him  there.  These  rooms 
kept  the  heat  of  the  day.  He  was  proud  of  the  shining  bronze-and- 
black  registers  in  the  walls. 

Well,  he  guessed  there  was  nothing  he  could  do  in  here.  He'd  seen 
it  all  often  enough. 

He  went  outside.  In  the  early  summer  evening  there  was  a  kind 
of  sadness  and  bareness  in  the  new  house,  standing  stark  against  the 
pale  evening  sky,  the  new  boards  around,  the  raw  dirt,  the  tools 
thrown  down  wherever  the  men  had  happened  to  drop  them,  the 
vacant  lots  beyond,  and  then  the  pastures  stretching  away,  damp  and 
fresh  with  dew,  and  the  slow-moving  forms  of  cattle. 

They  had  wanted  to  move  in  in  September,  but  it  was  the  middle 
of  October  before  they  could.  Then  the  woodwork  was  all  stained 
and  varnished— light,  shining  golden-oak.  They  had  had  the  walls  in 
the  front  room  "tiffanied."  In  the  other  rooms  the  walls  were  tinted 
light  green  or  blue,  with  stencilled  borders.  They  had  bought  new 
rugs  for  the  two  front  rooms,  with  bright  mottled  patterns,  and  had 
had  the  old  rag  rugs  made  up  into  strips  for  the  bedrooms.  They  were 
"doing  everything  right." 

They  hadn't  brought  in  all  of  their  furniture.  August  said  some 
of  it  wasn't  worth  carting.  The  combination  desk  and  bookcase,  their 
bedroom  furniture,  the  standard  rocker,  and  three  or  four  others- 
all  these  they  had.  The  old  rockers  and  the  little  old  stand  they  put 
upstairs.  Grandpa's  old  German  Bible  and  the  album  and  other  old 
things  went  into  the  small  store-room  at  the  head  of  the  stairs. 
Downstairs,  as  people  said  admiringly,  half  the  things  were  new.  The 
dining-room  furniture  was  all  new— a  round  table  and  four  chairs 
with  leather  seats.  They  had  kept  some  of  the  old  chairs  to  help  out 
when  they  had  company.  They  had  a  new  set  of  dishes,  too,  although 
they  themselves  used  the  old  ones.  The  new  ones  were  white,  with 
scalloped  edges  and  a  thin  gold  line.  The  dining-room  table  re- 
mained immaculate,  on  it  a  round,  embroidered  crash  doily  and  a 
plant.  They  would  do  their  eating  in  the  kitchen.  In  the  living-room 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  291 

was  the  piece  of  furniture  that  the  children  admired— a  large  brown 
davenport  upholstered  in  stiff  half-leather. 

People  went  in  to  see  the  Kaetterhenrys.  They  said  they  were 
"fixed  real  nice." 

At  first  it  seemed  queer  to  the  children  to  see  ma  and  pa  in  this 
brand-new  modern  house,  with  the  shining  floors  and  white  plumb- 
ing and  new  furniture.  But  they  got  used  to  it  quickly.  Now,  when 
they  came  into  town,  it  was  a  settled  thing  that  they  should  go  to  the 
folks'  for  dinner,  and  leave  the  babies  there  while  they  did  their 
buying.  They  came  in  on  Sundays  to  church,  and  all  ate  in  the  new 
dining-room,  the  daughters  holding  babies  on  their  laps. 

There  was  one  thing  that  disappointed  them,  Emma  especially. 
They  had  fixed  up  such  a  nice  room  for  Johnnie  and  had  thought 
that  they  could  have  him  with  them  again.  He  had  been  rooming 
over  in  an  old  house  near  the  garage.  But  just  before  they  moved  into 
the  new  house,  he  had  driven  over  to  "Wapsie"  one  day  with  his 
landlady's  daughter,  and  had  come  back  and  announced  himself 
married.  Emma  felt  dreadfully,  both  because  of  the  girl  he  had  mar- 
ried and  because  he  hadn't  told  her  and  his  father  about  it. 

They  hated  to  think  of  his  marrying  "such  a  little  flip,"  as  people 
in  town  called  her.  The  other  two  boys  had  married  good  workers, 
good  sensible  girls,  although  in  some  ways  they  didn't  care  much 
for  Frank's  wife.  This  Bernice  was  only  a  junior  in  high  school,  a 
silly,  rather  pretty  girl,  with  a  large,  soft,  powdered  face  and  great 
buns  of  dark  hair  showing  the  rats,  melting,  foolish  brown  eyes.  She 
wore  sleazy  over-blouses  moulded  by  her  large,  soft  breasts,  and  knee- 
skirts  showing  her  fat  white  legs  in  cheap,  thin  silk  stockings  that 
had  a  brownish  cast.  She  didn't  know  how  to  do  anything.  She  and 
Johnnie  were  to  stay  with  mamma. 

If  Frank  had  married  a  girl  like  that,  August  might  not  have  for- 
given him  for  years.  He  did  storm  and  say  that  he  wouldn't  do  any- 
thing more  for  Johnnie.  But,  although  the  marriage  was  known  as 
a  great  disappointment  to  the  Kaetterhenrys,  August's  anger  didn't 
last.  In  a  way  this  crazy  action  of  Johnnie's,  while  it  hurt  August, 
partly  satisfied  his  old  grudge  about  the  way  he  had  been  treated  in 
war-time,  the  peremptoriness  of  the  Government  in  taking  his  boys 
off  the  farm,  being  called  "Old  Dutchy  Kaetterhenry."  If  Johnnie 
had  not  gone  to  war,  he  would  never  have  done  such  a  thing.  He 
had  not  been  the  same  boy  since,  as  anyone  could  see. 

Johnnie  quarrelled  with  Bernice's  mother,  an  old  Tartar,  and  he 
and  Bernice  went  to  live  in  some  rooms  up  over  the  hardware  store. 
Their  baby  was  born  soon  after  that.  Women  whispered  how  long 


2Q2  RUTH   SUCKOW 

it  should  have  been  before  the  baby  ought  to  have  come.  But  Junior 
was  the  prettiest,  sturdiest,  fattest  baby  in  the  relationship.  It  gave 
Emma  something  to  do  to  go  over  to  Johnnie's  rooms  and  clean  up 
and  help  Bernice  with  the  baby. 

Johnnie  seemed  to  be  settling  down  now.  Being  older  than  Bernice 
made  him  seem  older  and  more  staid  to  himself.  August  said  that  if 
he  had  really  made  up  his  mind  now  to  stay  in  the  garage  business, 
and  not  just  tinker,  they'd  see  what  they  could  do  for  him. 

PART     FOUR 

I:    RETIRED  FARMERS 

People  asked  the  children  now: 
"Well,  how  do  the  folks  like  it  in  town?" 

"Oh,  pretty  good,  I  guess,"  the  children  answered.  "Mamma  likes 
it  a  lot  better  since  they're  in  their  new  house.  I  guess  pa  kind  o' 
misses  the  farm,  though." 

"I  guess  Marguerite's  glad  they've  moved  in." 

"Oh,  sure,  she's  glad.  It  suits  her  just  fine." 

The  Kaetterhenrys  were  settled  in  town  now,  retired  farmers. 

Marguerite  was  the  one  who  had  profited  by  the  change.  She  was 
a  town  girl  now.  Her  sisters  said  that  she  acted  as  if  she  had  never 
lived  in  the  country.  She  was  in  high  school  now,  where  she  played 
basket-ball  and  went  around  with  the  girls.  Marguerite  Kaetterhenry 
was  a  good-looking  girl.  She  was  tall,  large-boned,  but  still  thin,  with 
a  fresh  skin  that  was  apt  to  break  out  a  little.  Her  fuzz  of  bright 
light  hair  she  wore  in  huge  side-puffs.  She  was  very  particular  about 
how  her  clothes  should  be  made.  She  wouldn't  buy  shoes  at  one  of 
the  general  stores  in  Richland,  but  made  her  father  take  her  into 
"Wapsie,"  or  went  to  Dubuque  with  one  of  the  boys  when  they  were 
going.  She  was  popular  in  high  school,  had  good  marks  in  her 
studies,  and  went  to  all  the  parties,  although  the  Kaetterhenrys 
wouldn't  let  her  go  to  the  town  dances  in  the  opera-house.  But  she 
was  a  kind  of  stranger  at  home. 

She  did  not  look  as  if  she  belonged  to  the  same  tribe  as  her  sisters, 
when  they  came  to  town.  Mary  lived  away  out  in  the  country,  near 
the  old  mill.  She  looked  aged  and  hollow-eyed,  with  dark  skin  and 
those  glowing,  shy,  intelligent  dark  eyes.  Her  clothes  were  shabbier 
than  her  mother's.  Elva  took  more  pains  with  hers.  She  still  had  her 
white  skin,  but  somehow  her  things  had  a  country  look.  She  was 
getting  fat  and  matronly  and  sloppy,  with  all  those  fat  white  babies 
of  hers.   Clara,   of  course,  was  young  and   fresh-looking,  and  she 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  290 

looked  well  in  the  clean  ready-made  bungalow  aprons  that  she  wore 
out  on  the  farm.  But  when  she  came  to  town,  she  seemed  different, 
coarser,  and  she  wore  shabby,  high  black  shoes  with  her  thin  summer 
dresses.  Lottie,  Frank's  wife,  was  a  heavy,  coarse,  homely  woman, 
with  straight  red  hair  and  a  thick-freckled  face.  Marguerite  would 
never  be  satisfied  with  what  her  sisters  had  had. 

In  some  ways  the  Kaetterhenrys  lived  much  as  they  had  done  on 
the  farm.  They  did  most  of  their  living  in  the  kitchen.  August  al- 
ways washed  his  hands  and  face  there,  at  the  sink,  in  the  granite 
basin,  instead  of  in  the  bath-room;  and  he  kept  an  old  pinkish  comb 
and  his  shaving-things  on  the  shelf  above  the  sink.  They  used  their 
old  dishes  and  ate  from  the  oilcloth. 

They  had  arranged  to  get  their  cream  and  eggs  from  the  farm, 
but  they  found  that  it  was  very  different  from  having  those  things 
right  at  hand  in  abundance.  Emma  said  that  she  had  to  learn  to  cook 
all  over  again.  They  were  sparing  of  milk  and  butter  when  they  had 
to  pay  for  these  things  in  cash.  They  got  several  quarters  of  meat 
when  Carl  butchered,  and  Emma  put  it  up  in  jars,  as  she  had  always 
done.  But  somehow,  when  they  were  so  near  town,  they  found  them- 
selves getting  more  fresh  meat.  Emma  canned  quarts  and  quarts  of 
vegetables,  too.  The  cellar  was  full.  They  couldn't  use  half  the 
things.  They  couldn't  have  chickens  because  they  might  dig  up  the 
lawn,  which  was  freshly  seeded. 

August  had  let  Carl  keep  the  old  car  and  had  bought  a  new  sedan. 
They  drove  a  little  more  now,  oftener  to  "Wapsie"  and  to  Dubuque, 
where  they  got  into  the  habit  of  doing  their  important  shopping, 
like  most  Richland  people.  But  August  used  the  car  chiefly  for  going 
back  and  forth  to  the  farm.  He  wouldn't  let  Marguerite  drive  it, 
and  of  course  Emma  never  thought  of  doing  so.  They  still  did  little 
pleasure-driving.  They  took  out  the  minister  and  his  wife  for  a  drive, 
went  two  or  three  times  to  Turkey  Creek.  In  the  hot  summer  eve- 
nings the  car  was  locked  in  the  garage,  although  they  might  have 
been  out  getting  the  freshness  from  the  open  country,  where  ghostly 
vapour  rose  from  the  cornfields  and  the  trees  looked  misty  and 
drenched  in  the  loneliness  of  evening. 

They  got  considerable  consolation  from  the  church.  Now  they 
were  among  the  chief  and  faithful  members.  If  the  Kaetterhenrys 
were  not  in  their  pew,  the  minister  knew  that  something  was  wrong 
with  them,  and  took  pains  to  call  the  next  week.  They  were  among 
the  eight  or  nine  who  attended  the  prayer-meetings.  Emma  had  a 
kind  of  fondness  and  loyalty  for  the  church  because  of  her  father, 
and  August  remembered  it  as  the  best  thing  in  his  young  days. 


294  RUTH  SUCKOW 

Going  to  church,  and  being  steady  and  a  good  worker,  and  not 
drinking,  and  paying  his  bills,  and  saving  money,  were  all  part  of 
the  same  thing.  August  and  Emma  still  attended  the  Hon.  Mr.  Boss- 
ingham's  Bible  class,  where  August  sat  dumb  and  Emma  occasionally 
made  a  timid  answer.  They  never  said  much  at  church-meetings,  but 
they  could  always  be  counted  upon  to  be  there.  After  the  evangelist 
had  been  to  Richland— a  modern  evangelist  who  had  a  singer  who 
shouted,  "Now  put  a  little  pep  into  these  hymns,  people!"  not  like 
the  old  travelling  evangelists  who  used  to  go  around  to  the  camp- 
meetings— they  offered  the  use  of  their  house  for  one  of  the  cottage 
prayer-meetings  that  were  held  for  as  long  as  a  month  before  they 
petered  out. 

But  although  the  church  was  still  a  social  and  business  centre  in 
a  little  country  town  like  Richland,  one  doctor  attending  the  Metho- 
dist church,  the  other  the  Congregational,  it  didn't  seem  to  have  the 
importance  that  it  had  had  when  they  were  young  people  in  the 
country  here.  The  children  didn't  make  the  effort  to  come  in  to 
services  that  they  had  made,  easy  as  it  was  for  them  now,  compared 
with  those  old  days  of  buggies  and  dirt  roads.  There  were  too  many 
other  places  where  people  could  go  now.  August  and  Emma  made 
Marguerite  go  to  church  and  Sunday  school,  but  after  the  League 
she  went  walking,  on  pleasant  nights,  with  her  current  admirer. 

And,  really,  it  was  only  as  a  kind  of  deep-rooted  custom,  a  bulwark 
against  worrying  changes,  an  idea,  that  August  cared  for  the  church. 
He  often  went  to  sleep  during  the  services.  He  did  not  get  the  senti- 
mental and  emotional  satisfaction  out  of  the  prayers  and  sermons 
and  hymns  that  Emma  did.  It  did  not  fill  the  same  place  in  his  life. 
He  had  never  questioned  anything,  but  it  was  doubtful  what  these 
things  really  meant  to  him. 

Emma  was  getting  used  to  town.  As  the  children  said,  she  liked  it 
better  now  that  they  were  in  their  own  house.  She  was  still  very 
quiet,  but  she  was  beginning  to  go  about  a  little  more  than  formerly. 
Her  sister-in-law,  Mrs.  Henry  Stille,  "got  her  into"  the  Social  Circle 
Club,  a  collection  of  elderly  ladies  who  met  every  Tuesday  to  eat 
and  talk.  They  had  no  program,  like  the  Tourist  Club,  took  up  no 
"line  of  study."  The  club  was  only  and  frankly  for  social  purposes. 
The  Banner  said  of  it: 

"The  Social  Circle  Club  held  its  weekly  meeting  on  Tuesday 
last  at  the  pleasant  new  residence  of  Mrs.  August  Kaetterhenry. 
The  ladies  brought  fancy  work  and,  after  a  pleasant  hour  spent 
in  social  intercourse,  were  served  with  a  delicious  luncheon  by 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  295 

the  hostess,  after  which  the  club  adjourned,  thanking  the  hostess 
one  and  all  for  a  delightful  afternoon's  entertainment." 

Then  there  was  the  Aid  Society.  This,  too,  was  composed  largely 
of  the  older  women  of  the  church,  who  were  still  willing  to  get  up 
big  suppers,  work  at  cleaning  the  church,  make  sheets  and  pillow- 
cases for  the  missions  that  they  supported,  and  raise  money  for  the 
parsonage  fund  by  making  quilts  which  women  from  "Wapsie"  came 
down  to  buy.  Emma  enjoyed  these  quilting-afternoons  in  the  quiet, 
chilly  church  basement,  to  which  she  went  with  Mrs.  Willie  Stille, 
with  all  the  women  sitting  about  in  old-fashioned  comfort,  talking 
over  neighbourhood  affairs,  telling  what  their  husbands  and  children 
had  done,  as  they  worked  together  at  the  big  quilting-frame.  It  was 
like  her  girlhood  days,  when  she  was  getting  ready  to  be  married, 
and  they  had  held  quilting-bees  in  the  country.  There  was  the  crisp 
smell  of  coffee,  which  some  of  the  ladies  were  getting  ready  on  the 
oil-stove,  coming  in  and  saying,  "Well,  don't  you  ladies  think  you 
better  quit  working  so  hard  and  have  a  little  coffee  for  a  change?" 
She  helped  at  the  church  suppers,  was  one  of  those  who  could  be 
counted  upon  to  work  in  the  kitchen.  But  it  was  noticed  that  the 
Kaetterhenrys  were  always  careful  not  to  donate  too  much. 

Emma  still  had  the  feeling  that  August  mustn't  be  kept  waiting 
a  minute  for  his  meals  and  that  she  "must  be  getting  back." 

She  took  more  pains  with  the  house  than  she  had  ever  taken  with 
the  one  in  the  country.  It  was  all  so  bright  and  shining,  and  she 
wanted  to  keep  it  that  way.  Marguerite,  of  course,  didn't  get  things 
out  of  order  as  the  boys  had  done.  Emma  raised  plants,  geraniums, 
and  coloured  foliage,  and  a  sword-fern  for  the  front  window  that  she 
hoped  would  grow  huge,  like  Mrs.  Henry  Stille's.  She  did  more  sew- 
ing than  she  had  done  before.  She  used  to  count  on  Mary  for  that, 
but  Mary  had  less  time  than  she  did  now.  Emma  made  Marguerite's 
clothes,  under  minute  and  fretful  and  exacting  directions.  "No, 
mamma,  I  told  you  I  had  to  have  the  belt  down  lower.  This  makes 
me  look  like  Lottie."  She  got  patterns  from  other  women  and  cro- 
cheted wide  elaborate  yokes  for  Marguerite's  corset-covers  and 
camisoles. 

She  took  care  of  the  grandchildren  when  the  young  people  wanted 
to  go  somewhere.  She  went  out  into  the  country  to  help  out  when 
there  was  sickness  at  the  homes  of  any  of  the  children.  She  missed 
the  farm  sometimes— missed  the  quiet,  her  work  with  the  poultry, 
the  feeling  of  the  old  rooms,  the  country  air  and  sounds.  But  she  kept 
busy  enough. 


296  RUTH   SUCKOW 

August  was  the  one  who  felt  that  he  had  nothing  to  do.  The  house 
was  finished  now.  Life  moved  along,  and  what  else  was  there  to  do? 
He  was  taking  it  easy  now.  He  made  a  kind  of  religion  of  the  garden 
and  the  lawn.  He  looked  forward  to  the  meetings  of  the  stockholders 
of  the  Farmers'  Bank,  in  which  he  had  an  interest.  He  made  a  rite 
of  going  downtown  for  the  mail  and  the  meat.  But  all  this  meant 
nothing. 

There  was  no  club  for  him.  For  some  obscure  reason  he  "didn't 
believe  in  lodges."  He  paid  his  subscription  to  the  church,  and  that 
was  the  end  of  it.  He  read  the  Richland  Banner  and  a  Dubuque 
paper  and  a  farm  journal.  He  cared  for  nothing  else.  There  was  no 
library  in  Richland,  no  place  where  magazines  were  sold,  but  he 
would  not  have  patronized  such  places  if  he  had  had  them,  although 
Emma  might  have  done  so. 

He  didn't  come  right  home  when  he  went  down  for  the  mail.  He 
got  into  the  habit  of  hanging  around  with  the  other  retired  farmers, 
in  at  Dawson's  store  or  at  the  post  office.  Not  at  the  barber-shop.  The 
"tougher  element"  hung  out  there,  and  at  the  restaurant,  which  had 
a  pool  hall  in  connection.  The  men  talked  a  little  about  politics, 
but  mostly  about  farms  changing  hands,  and  crops  and  roads,  with 
minute  observations  on  the  weather. 

"Well,  that  was  just  about  a  frost  we  had  last  night." 

"Yeh.  Little  too  windy  for  a  frost." 

"My  wife  thought  some  of  her  plants  had  been  frosted." 

"No.  Wasn't  quite  a  frost.  Our  plants  didn't  show  any  sign  of  it." 

Most  of  them  had  a  kind  of  seedy  look.  They  walked  heavily,  with- 
out spring.  They  didn't  know  what  to  do  with  themselves. 

People  said,  "Have  you  noticed  how  old  Mr.  Kaetterhenry's  get- 
ting to  look?  He  don't  seem  like  the  same  man  he  did  when  they 
first  moved  into  town.  I  wonder  if  he  can  be  well."  He  wasn't  very 
well.  He  had  headaches,  trouble  with  his  stomach,  once  a  dizzy  spell. 
He  was  eating  the  same  heavy  meals  that  he  had  eaten  when  he  was 
working  hard  on  the  farm,  coffee  and  meat  three  times  a  day.  August 
thought  he  had  to  have  his  meat. 

It  was  true  that  all  at  once  he  was  beginning  to  show  his  age. 
Emma  looked  no  older  now  than  he  did.  She  had  gained  flesh  again 
since  her  operation,  and  some  of  the  lines  had  gone  from  her  face. 
August,  when  he  decided  to  retire,  had  been  a  hearty,  vigorous  man 
seemingly  in  the  prime  of  life.  But  now  all  at  once  his  old  colour 
was  gone,  his  shoulders  were  slack,  his  vigorously  bright  curling  hair 
was  sparse  and  faded,  and  he  walked  like  a  man  ten  years  older.  He 
actually  looked  older  than  Herman  Klaus,  who  had  always  been  a 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  297 

little  dried-up  fellow.  August  had  never  had  anything  the  matter 
with  him  except  when  he  had  lost  two  fingers  from  his  left  hand  in 
the  corn-shredder.  But  now  he  began  buying  a  patent  tonic  at  the 
drug-store,  and  he  and  Emma  both  took  it. 

Emma  said  that  she  believed  half  the  trouble  was  that  August  had 
nothing  to  keep  him  busy  any  more.  He  did  a  little  hauling.  There 
was  a  job  vacant  in  the  lumber-yard.  He  would  have  liked  to  take 
it,  at  seventy  dollars  a  month,  but  his  old  stubbornness  kept  him 
from  it.  He  had  said  that  he  wanted  to  quit  work.  Actually  he  would 
have  been  glad  at  times  to  work  on  the  roads  or  the  section.  But  no 
work  was  vital  any  more.  No  work  looked  forward  to  anything.  He 
didn't  want  someone  else  for  his  boss.  Everything  that  he  had  done 
had  been  for  the  farm.  The  farm  had  always  come  first.  He  had  al- 
ways talked  about  retiring  some  day,  quit  this  slaving;  but  he  had 
never  really  looked  forward  to  it.  He  had  used  every  energy  to  build 
up  the  farm.  He  had  done  it,  from  almost  nothing,  by  his  own 
efforts,  and  now  that  he  had  made  a  fine  place  of  it,  Carl  was  living 
on  it  and  he  had  moved  to  town.  Well,  that  was  what  everybody  did. 
He  would  not  have  wanted  to  be  like  Herman,  not  able  to  do  it. 

The  boys  had  speculated  upon  whether  pa  would  be  able  to  stay 
away  from  the  farm.  They  weren't  surprised  to  see  him  going  out 
there.  He  made  excuses  at  first.  When  he  got  the  new  sedan,  he 
drove  out  just  to  see  what  Carl  was  doing.  Then  he  said,  "Want  me 
to  help  you  some  with  that  ploughing?"  Then  he  began  to  go  regu- 
larly, except  when  the  weather  was  too  bad  and  he  was  forced  to 
hang  about  the  house,  looking  at  the  farm  journal  and  trying  to 
take  a  nap. 

He  and  Emma  had  always  thought  of  taking  a  trip,  but  it  seemed 
now  that  neither  of  them  really  wanted  to  go. 

The  farm  looked  different  now,  more  so  as  time  went  on.  When 
August  and  Emma  sometimes  drove  out  there  for  Sunday  dinner,  it 
gave  them  a  kind  of  shock  when  they  turned  into  the  drive.  The 
place  was  theirs,  and  yet  it  wasn't.  The  house  was  different.  Carl  and 
Clara  were  getting  new  furniture.  They  used  grandpa's  old  room  for 
a  store-room.  They  didn't  like  the  upstairs,  which  was  not  well  fin- 
ished. They  had  a  brass  bed  and  a  shiny  mail-order  dresser  in  the 
downstairs  bedroom,  which  was  full  of  the  baby's  things,  thrown 
around  everywhere.  They  had  a  new  bright-coloured  rug  in  the 
parlour,  where  there  was  none  of  the  old  furniture  except  the 
organ,  which  Marguerite  had  refused  to  have  moved  into  town. 
Clara  said  she  didn't  know  why  they  kept  it  there,  since  neither  of 
them  could  play  a  note.  She  wanted  a  Victrola  if  crops  were  good 


298  RUTH  SUCKOW 

this  year.  Carl  had  made  a  little  cage  for  the  baby,  like  one  that  they 
had  seen  in  a  store  window  in  Dubuque.  They  let  him  play  there 
on  the  new  parlour  rug,  with  all  his  celluloid  animals  and  the  little 
doll  like  one  of  the  characters  in  the  funny  papers.  None  of  Emma's 
children  had  ever  been  permitted  to  be  in  the  parlour. 

It  was  still  different  out  on  the  place.  August  thought  that  Carl 
was  doing  a  good  deal  of  experimenting  with  new  things.  August 
had  never  believed  in  sweet  clover  for  pasturage.  He  called  sweet 
clover  a  weed.  Now  Carl  had  got  a  lot  of  new  seed  from  the  state 
agricultural  college.  August  couldn't  get  used  to  the  feeling  that  he 
couldn't  tell  Carl  just  what  to  do.  Carl  was  the  boss  now.  He  was 
good-tempered,  didn't  say  much.  But  August  noticed  that  he  kept 
on  with  exactly  what  he  had  planned  to  do.  He  was  a  Kaetterhenry. 
August  worked  on  the  farm,  but  then  what  did  that  mean  when  he 
was  no  longer  doing  it  for  anything?  The  life  had  gone  out  of  his 
work.  Sometimes  he  hated  to  go  out  there,  although  he  couldn't  stay 
away. 

Carl  didn't  like  to  have  him  come,  either,  as  he  told  Frank.  Pa 
was  too  used  to  thinking  he  could  do  anything  he  pleased  there.  They 
had  quarrels  once  or  twice. 

Emma,  all  of  them,  thought  that  August  was  working  too  hard. 
They  said,  "You  don't  need  to  go  out  to  that  farm  and  kill  yourself." 
He  kept  on  stubbornly.  One  day  he  was  overcome  with  the  heat  out 
there.  Carl  had  to  bring  him  home  in  the  sedan.  But  even  after  that 
he  wouldn't  stop.  Carl  had  to  be  careful,  and  scheme  so  that  his 
father  would  get  the  easier  part  of  the  work. 

"Mr.  Kaetterhenry  looks  real  bad,"  people  said.  He  would  not 
admit  it.  Emma  wanted  him  to  try  this  and  that  that  other  people 
recommended.  The  children  said,  "Pa'll  have  a  stroke  some  day  if 
he  isn't  careful." 

He  was  never  so  vigorous  again  after  that  heat  prostration.  He 
knew  that  he  was  sick,  but  he  tried  obstinately  not  to  give  in,  to 
hang  on.  Then  one  day,  coming  home  from  town,  he  had  a  kind  of 
dizzy  spell.  He  got  home  all  right,  and  no  one  knew  it.  But  it 
frightened  him.  It  broke  his  resistance.  He  told  Emma  that  he  be- 
lieved there  was  something  the  matter  with  him.  The  next  day 
Emma  telephoned  the  children  that  she  and  pa  were  going  to 
Rochester  again. 

II:    OBITUARY 

It  was  in  the  dead  of  winter  that  August  and  Emma  took  their  sec- 
ond trip  to  Rochester.  They  did  not  take  Marguerite  with  them  this 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  299 

time.  She  was  going  to  stay  with  her  uncle  Henry  Stille,  so  that  she 
needn't  miss  school.  Altogether  the  trip  seemed  less  eventful  than  the 
first  one  that  they  had  made,  when  everything  was  new. 

August  was  not  interested  in  the  farms  this  time,  or  the  country. 
It  lay  under  a  heavy  crust  of  snow,  the  willow-trees  pencilled  bleak 
and  small  upon  a  grey  sky.  Although  they  had  both  had  such  awe 
of  the  operation  before,  this  time  there  was  a  different  fear  in  their 
hearts,  down  under  everything,  gnawing  in  silence. 

They  went  to  their  same  old  boarding-house.  The  landlady  did 
not  recognize  them  until  they  told  their  names  and  reminded  her 
of  when  they  had  been  here  before.  Then  she  exclaimed: 

"Oh,  my!  Well,  I  should  say!  Well,  what  are  you  folks  back  here 
for?  Are  you  the  sick  one  this  time,  Mr.  Kaetterhenry?  Missus  looks 
fine,  though." 

They  did  not  like  the  place  so  well  as  before.  They  were  used  to 
the  shining  immaculateness  and  comforts  of  their  new  house  now. 
The  bedroom,  the  dining-room,  with  the  brown  linoleum  and  the 
little  step  up  from  the  ancient  parlour,  seemed  darker  and  shabbier 
to  them.  They  did  not  know  any  of  these  boarders.  Somehow,  it 
seemed  to  them  that  they  must  meet  some  of  those  who  had  been 
here  before,  that  they  must  belong  to  the  boarding-house. 

The  landlady  tried  to  cheer  them.  She  said: 

"Oh,  they'll  fix  you  up  over  there.  They're  great  folks.  Not  much 
them  doctors  can't  do." 

Emma  said: 

"Ja,  if  he'll  do  what  they  say." 

"Oh,  he  will.  That's  what  he's  come  here  for."  She  rallied  him: 
"I  never  thought  I'd  see  you  folks  here  on  your  account,  Mr.  Kaet- 
terhenry. Ain't  you  ashamed  of  yourself?  My,  I  remember  that  Mrs. 
Boohey  that  was  here  with  her  husband,  had  the  operation  on  the 
jaw,  used  to  say,  if  her  husband  looked  half  as  strong  as  Mr.  Kaetter- 
henry! Well,  they'll  have  you  looking  that  way  again." 

But  she  was  doubtful.  She  told  the  other  boarders  about  how 
vigorous  August  had  been  and  how  he  had  aged.  She  said: 

"I'll  bet  he's  waited  too  long  before  he  came,  just  like  all  those 
old  farmers.  He  looks  to  me  as  if  he  might  have  had  some  kind  of 
a  stroke.  Did  you  notice  how  kind  of  slow  he  moves?  Well,  sir,  it's 
that  big  strong  kind  of  men  that  sometimes  goes  all  of  a  sudden." 

She  frightened  Emma,  who  had  never  actually  noticed  before  how 
changed  August  was.  It  was  hard  to  say  what  the  change  was,  ex- 
actly. He  was  not  thin.  His  face  was  still  high-coloured.  But  the  skin 
looked  different;  there  were  wrinkles;  his  figure  was  sunken,  and 


300  RUTH  SUCKOW 

his  movements  were  no  longer  vigorous;  his  eye  was  vacant  and 
seemed  to  turn  slowly.  The  whole  impression  of  the  man  was  dif- 
ferent. 

Emma  and  the  children  had  wondered  if  August  would  ever  sub- 
mit to  all  those  tests  and  examinations.  He  had  always  scorned  all 
such  things.  It  had  taken  him  a  long  while  to  give  up,  but  now  he 
had  done  so  completely.  He  was  suddenly  not  the  same  person.  He 
was  meek.  He  let  Emma  do  things  for  him,  turned  to  her.  He 
seemed  to  depend  upon  her.  When  they  went  to  the  clinic,  he  let 
her  make  all  the  arrangements.  And  he  called  her  in  and  let  her 
answer  many  of  the  questions  that  the  doctor  asked.  All  the  time, 
from  the  doctor's  careful,  non-committal  manner— a  new  doctor, 
large  and  calm— from  something  that  they  felt,  but  could  not  name, 
they  were  afraid. 

August  had  fought  all  these  months  against  having  anything  done 
for  him,  against  "seeing  anyone."  But  now  that  it  might  be  too  late, 
he  was  suddenly  ready  to  do  anything.  He  went  through  all  the  tests 
without  a  murmur,  and  he  even  seemed  to  find  a  relief  in  having  his 
ailments  admitted  to  the  doctor.  August!  He  seemed  to  want  Em- 
ma's help  and  sympathy.  Before,  he  wouldn't  even  so  much  as  admit 
that  his  stomach  was  out  of  order,  was  angry  with  anyone  who  dared 
to  suggest  it. 

They  had  both  been  hoping  that  the  doctor  would  say  that  there 
must  be  an  operation.  Since  Emma  had  been  helped  by  an  operation, 
it  seemed  to  them  that  an  operation  would  do  anything.  But  the 
doctor  merely  said  that  this  condition  could  hardly  be  helped  by 
that.  He  wouldn't  say  much  about  it  all,  only  murmuring  something 
about  "blood  pressure  pretty  high."  He  was  going  to  give  August  a 
diet,  and  he  was  to  do  no  physical  work,  not  to  drive  the  car,  to  be 
quiet  and  avoid  excitement.  August  and  Emma  did  not  say  to  each 
other  what  was  meant,  but  they  knew.  "High  blood  pressure"  was 
a  term  of  terror  to  people  in  Richland,  although  old  Dr.  Bowen 
laughed  at  the  whole  business  and  said  there  was  no  such  thing. 
Everyone  said  that  that  was  what  had  caused  Mrs.  Vesey's  stroke. 
The  doctor's  coolness,  his  temperate  statements,  only  soothed  them 
for  the  time  being.  "Stroke"  was  what  they  were  both  fearing.  It 
was  the  fear  of  all  the  elderly  people  in  Richland.  Time  was  counted 
from  the  day  when  Mrs.  Vesey  or  Grandpa  Granger  or  Fred  Wil- 
liams had  had  a  stroke. 

Emma  was  all  the  more  fearful  because  the  doctor  kept  her  and 
questioned  her  closely  about  the  time  last  summer  when  August  had 
been  overcome  with  the  heat.  She  answered  timidly,  half  consciously 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  301 

trying  to  make  it  sound  less  serious  than  it  had  been,  for  fear  of  that 
word.  But  she  had  to  ask  the  doctor  what  he  thought  it  had  been. 
He  would  admit  no  more  than  that  it  might  have  been  slightly  on 
the  order  of  a  stroke.  But  he  let  her  know  that  August's  condition 
was  serious. 

August  had  a  reaction  from  his  meekness  before  the  doctors.  The 
night  before  they  left  Rochester  he  was  discouraged.  He  let  himself 
sink  into  bitter  depths  of  hopelessness.  He  blamed  the  doctors.  He 
said  that  if  he'd  known  they  weren't  going  to  do  any  more  for  him 
than  that,  he  wouldn't  have  come  up  here  and  wasted  all  his  money. 
Just  tell  him  to  be  careful!  Any  old  fool,  even  old  Doc  Bowen,  could 
have  done  that.  He  didn't  need  to  come  clear  up  to  Minnesota  to 
learn  a  thing  like  that.  Emma  tried  to  soothe  him.  She  defended  the 
doctors. 

"Well,  maybe  there  ain't  anything  else  they  could  do.  They  said 
there  wasn't  anything  to  operate  for.  I  suppose  there's  times  when 
they  can't.  They  gave  you  a  diet." 

"]a,  diet!"  he  said  bitterly.  ' 'Think  if  I  can't  do  anything  else, 
then  I  might  as  well  starve  too,  a'ready." 

They  admitted  to  the  landlady  that  they  didn't  think  August  had 
got  much  help.  It  seemed  to  both  of  them  that  the  doctors  should 
have  done  more.  August  declared  that  he  believed  that  stuff  he'd 
taken  last  summer  had  given  him  more  help.  They  both  thought 
that  if  Emma's  old  doctor  could  have  looked  at  him,  he  might  have 
done  something.  "If  he  helped  you,  why  couldn't  he  have  helped 
me?"  Their  notion  of  medicine  was  still  as  of  some  universal  pan- 
acea. August  had  looked  to  "operation"  and  "Rochester"  as  the  last 
resort,  the  final  magic  independent  of  what  he  himself  did.  Now  it 
seemed  that  there  was  no  panacea. 

They  went  home  silent  and  discouraged,  fearful,  hating  to  admit 
to  the  children  and  the  neighbours  what  had  been  said.  They  had 
not  sent  word  that  they  were  coming.  There  was  no  one  to  meet 
them  at  the  little  station,  standing  bleak  in  the  midst  of  frozen  win- 
ter pastures.  They  went  up  the  lonely,  icy  street.  They  had  had  a 
discussion  about  the  suit-case.  Emma  had  been  afraid  to  have  Au- 
gust carry  it  all  the  way  home.  She  had  wanted  to  leave  it  in  the 
depot.  One  of  the  boys  would  be  in  town  soon  and  could  get  it.  He 
had  angrily  refused.  Then  she  had  said: 

"Well,  let  me  take  it,  then.  I  don't  want  you  to  carry  it.  You'll 
hurt  yourself."  He  picked  it  up  and  went  angrily  on  with  it,  she 
trotting  over  the  ice  at  his  side  and  urging  him  to  let  her  have  it. 

Then  they  met  one  of  their  neighbours,  Lew  Parsons,  in  his  car. 


302  RUTH  SUCKOW 

He  stopped  at  the  corner,  called,  "Hello!  didn't  know  you  folks  was 
back!  Don't  you  want  to  ride  home?"  They  climbed  in  thankfully. 

"Ja,  I  thought  mister  oughtn't  to  carry  that  suit-case,  but  he 
wouldn't  give  it  up,"  Emma  said. 

Lew  Parsons  said,  "Well,  what  did  they  do  to  you  up  there?" 
August  said  gloomily,  "Ach,  not  much  of  anything."  "Not  much  of 
anything,  hey?  Well,  I  could  have  told  you  before  you  went  how  it 
would  be.  Them  places  makes  a  big  noise,  but  there's  some  stuff 
right  down  here  at  the  drug-store  that  me  and  the  missus  always 
takes  when  we  got  anything  the  matter  with  us,  and  it  does  the 
business." 

They  went  into  their  house.  The  furnace  was  out.  The  place  was 
ice-cold.  Emma  worried  over  anything  that  August  did,  but  he  was 
determined  not  to  let  her  help  him  start  the  fire.  It  was  a  bleak 
home-coming. 

The  children  came  in  when  they  found  that  "the  folks"  were  at 
home.  There  wasn't  much  to  tell  them.  Emma  said  the  doctors 
hadn't  had  much  to  say. 

But  people  in  town  gradually  knew.  They  said  that  Mr.  Kaetter- 
henry  had  "high  blood  pressure,"  and  that  they'd  told  him  he  was 
liable  to  have  a  stroke.  One  might  take  him  off  any  time,  and  they 
marvelled  again  over  what  a  big  strong  man  he  had  always  seemed 
to  be.  They  said  that  was  often  the  way.  They  had  time  in  Richland 
to  watch  and  study  people,  to  go  minutely  over  and  over  physical 
symptoms,  to  see  what  kind  of  people  seemed  to  last  and  what  didn't. 

All  that  winter  August  sat  around  the  house,  went  down  occa- 
sionally for  the  mail.  Emma  was  fearful.  She  watched  him.  If  she 
didn't  know  where  he  was  and  what  he  was  doing,  she  sent  Mar- 
guerite to  see.  People  said,  "He's  failed  just  since  they  come  back 
from  Rochester."  They  saw  how  slowly  he  walked.  His  feet  dragged 
as  he  went  past  their  houses  to  the  post  office.  He  never  went  out  to 
the  farm  any  more.  He  said  he  didn't  want  to  go  there. 

They  were  not  content  with  merely  diet  and  care.  They  tried 
other  things.  Another  brand  of  medicine,  and  then  a  treatment  for 
"high  blood  pressure,"  regardless  of  cause,  that  a  doctor  in  "Wap- 
sie"  gave.  They  thought  at  first  that  it  might  be  helping.  Then  they 
couldn't  tell  whether  it  did  or  not.  Mrs.  Cooley,  who,  people  whis- 
pered, was  "kind  of  a  Christian  Scientist  or  some  such  thing,"  told 
Emma  about  a  man  over  at  Wellington  who  claimed  to  give  people 
mental  healing.  She  wanted  Emma  to  take  August  over  there  and 
have  him  try  that.  Emma  was  quite  worked  up  over  all  the  wonders 
of  which  Mrs.  Cooley  had  told  her,  but  August  refused  to  go.  Al- 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  303 

though,  in  medical  matters,  he  was  quite  ready  to  believe  in  magic, 
it  must  be  connected  with  something  that  he  could  see,  a  bottle  or 
a  knife.  He  said  that  this  was  "nothing  but  some  more  Christian 
Science,"  and  that  he  had  always  considered  almost  equal  in  wicked- 
ness to  Catholicism. 

In  the  summer  he  seemed  to  be  a  little  better.  Perhaps  it  was  be- 
cause he  could  get  out  more.  He  mowed  the  lawn,  although  Emma 
didn't  like  to  have  him  do  it.  He  went  downtown  and  stood  about 
with  the  other  men.  The  anxiety  that  had  been  hanging  over  them 
lightened  a  little.  But  there  was  always  the  fear  of  that  day  he  might 
do  a  little  too  much. 

The  day  came.  There  was  a  sale  of  stock  out  in  the  country,  and 
August  secretly  took  the  car  and  drove  out  there.  All  of  a  sudden 
he  had  got  tired  of  hanging  around,  and  had  broken  loose.  It  hap- 
pened to  be  one  of  the  very  hottest  days  of  the  whole  summer. 
Emma  did  not  know  that  August  had  gone,  but  she  knew  what  it 
meant  when  she  saw  Carl  driving  up  the  street  in  their  sedan.  He 
and  Dr.  Brady  were  bringing  August  home. 

That  evening  everyone  in  town  knew  of  it. 

"Have  you  heard  about  Mr.  Kaetterhenry's  stroke?  J  a,  he  had  a 
stroke  this  afternoon  out  at  Gorensen's  sale;  ain't  expected  to  live. 
Well,  I  guess  they  been  kind  of  expecting  it  a  long  time." 

The  children  were  summoned.  They  drove  in  from  the  country. 
It  had  been  a  severe  stroke.  Their  father  might  not  live  through  the 
night.  In  all  their  hearts  was  the  hope  that  he  would  not  "live  to  be 
like  grandma." 

Several  times  they  thought  that  he  was  dying.  They  went  into  the 
bedroom  where  he  lay  unconscious.  But  he  was  a  vigorous  man,  and 
it  took  the  thing  a  long  time  to  kill  him.  He  lived  for  three  days. 
The  children  had  to  go  back  to  their  farms,  and  only  Roy  and  Elva 
were  there  when  he  had  another  stroke  and  died. 

"August  Kaetterhenry's  dead!  He  died  at  three  o'clock."  That  was 
what  everyone  in  Richland  was  saying  now.  He  had  never  regained 
consciousness.  They  all  said  again  how  strange  it  seemed.  What  a 
strong  man  he  had  seemed  to  be  when  he  first  moved  to  town— had 
looked  as  if  he  would  live  for  years!  They  remembered  how  he 
had  helped  to  build  his  new  house.  They  said  what  a  pity  that  he  had 
lived  so  few  years  to  enjoy  it.  Now  everyone  was  wondering  where 
and  when  the  funeral  would  be.  The  Kaetterhenrys  were  such  Meth- 
odists, probably  it  would  be  in  the  church. 

Funerals  were  still  public  events  in  Richland.  This  one  was  ex- 
pected to  be  large.  A  great  many  people  came  in  from  the  country. 


304  RUTH  SUCKOW 

Townspeople  turned  out,  although  they  hadn't  known  August  very 
well,  to  see  what  kind  of  service  it  would  be  and  who  was  there. 
All  the  pews  were  filled  as  Tom  Peters,  who  was  studying  with  the 
local  undertaker,  led  one  family  after  another  to  their  places  in  a 
creaking  silence.  They  wanted  to  hear  what  the  Methodist  quartet, 
Dr.  Brady,  Herb  Carter,  Willie  Stille,  and  Mr.  Rush,  would  sing. 
Most  of  all,  they  wanted  to  see  "who  had  come  from  away."  They 
whispered,  "My,  he  must  have  had  a  lot  of  relations!"  "Well,  some 
of  these  are  hers." 

The  five  front  rows  at  the  side  were  reserved  for  the  mourners. 
There  were  all  the  children  and  the  children-in-law  and  the  grand- 
children. Grandpa  Stille,  of  course,  couldn't  get  in,  although  he  had 
wanted  to  come,  had  sighed  and  mourned  over  "the  young  folks 
going."  Herman  and  Mollie  Klaus  were  there.  There  were  five 
families  of  Stilles.  Those  whom  people  really  wanted  to  see  were 
"his  folks,"  who  had  come  from  Turkey  Creek.  Sophie  Klaus  and 
her  husband,  Heinie  and  Ferdinand  Kaetterhenry  and  their  wives. 
Mina  had  come.  She  was  a  fat,  toothless  old  widow  now.  She  had 
always  cared  the  most  for  August,  although  he  had  not  done  much 
for  her.  She  wore  a  little  scrap  of  cheap  black  veiling  on  her  ancient 
summer  hat.  The  two  brothers  were  heavier  men  than  August,  more 
like  the  old  man  Kaetterhenry. 

There  was  a  long  procession  of  cars  that  went  out  to  the  cemetery. 
Most  of  them  were  from  the  country.  All  the  children  and  all  the 
relatives  from  Turkey  Creek,  and  a  good  many  of  the  other  country 
people  from  the  Richland  neighbourhood.  It  pleased  the  Turkey 
Creek  relatives  to  see  how  many.  August  had  been  the  most  success- 
ful brother,  and  Richland  was  more  metropolitan  than  Turkey 
Creek. 

They  drove  down  the  hard,  brown,  dusty  road,  slowly,  stopping 
so  that  the  cars  wouldn't  bump  into  one  another.  They  went  through 
the  big  iron  gate  of  the  cemetery,  which  was  open  to-day.  The  rela- 
tives looked  around  and  whispered,  "Oh,  that's  where  his  lot  is. 
It's  in  a  nice  spot."  August  had  bought  the  lot  when  he  moved  to 
town.  It  was  over  in  the  newer  part  of  the  cemetery,  near  a  large 
evergreen. 

The  summer  wind  stirred  in  the  unaccustomed  black  veils  of  the 
women  as  they  stood  about  the  grave.  "Must  be  a  country  funeral," 
people  driving  past  said  when  they  saw  all  the  waiting  cars  and  the 
solemn,  stolid  group  of  people  there. 

The  children  had  to  drive  home  to  do  the  chores.  But  August's 
sister  Sophie  and  the  Ferdinand  Kaetterhenrys  were  going  to  spend 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  305 

the  night  with  Emma,  so  that  she  and  Marguerite  wouldn't  be  alone. 
The  Henry  and  the  Willie  Stilles  came  over  in  the  evening. 

They  talked  about  August,  in  voices  slightly  hushed,  but  more 
natural  now  that  it  was  all  over.  They  said  how  nice  the  funeral  had 
been,  how  many  had  driven  in  from  the  country.  They  talked  about 
the  sermon.  "This  good  brother  who  has  gone  before  us,"  the  min- 
ister had  said.  That  was  right.  They  said  what  a  good  church-mem- 
ber, how  faithful,  August  had  always  been!  Ferdinand  said  he  re- 
membered when  he  and  August  had  "gone  forward"  at  one  of  the 
old  Turkey  Creek  camp-meetings.  August  had  been  faithful  to  his 
pledge.  The  minister  had  said  what  a  good  citizen  and  good  farmer 
August  had  been.  They  said  that  that  was  true.  Sophie  and  Ferdinand 
were  proud  of  how  much  August  had  been  able  to  accumulate  when 
they  remembered  the  old  days  in  the  cabin  down  on  Turkey  Creek. 
They  said  he  had  worked  hard  for  all  he  had  got.  He  had  deserved  it. 
The  only  pity  was  that  he  hadn't  lived  to  get  more  enjoyment  out 
of  it. 

Then  they  talked  over  the  details  of  his  illness.  They  said  how 
quickly  he  had  seemed  to  fail  when  he  once  started.  It  didn't  seem 
any  time  since  he  was  over  at  Turkey  Creek  the  last  time  and  had 
helped  Heinie  with  the  haying. 

Emma  cried  a  little.  It  seemed  to  her  that  August  had  had  to  work 
so  hard,  and  then  after  he  moved  to  town  he  hadn't  got  much  out  of 
all  his  work.  They  gave  her  vague  consolations:  "Well,  we  don't 
understand  why  he  should  have  been  taken  this  way,  but,  then, 
there's  some  reason."  But  they  thought  as  she  did.  It  didn't  seem 
right  that  Herman  Klaus,  for  instance,  was  still  living,  as  well  and 
happy  as  ever,  and  August  was  gone.  They  had  thought  of  that 
when  they  had  looked  at  Herman  at  the  funeral. 

There  was  consolation  and  pride  in  the  column  of  close  print  in 
the  Richland  Banner  on  Thursday.  Emma  ordered  extra  copies. 

"ESTEEMED  RESIDENT  PASSES" 

And  below,  in  smaller  type: 

"Retired  Farmer  Answers  Summons." 

August's  life  seemed  different  to  her,  more  important,  as  she  read 
it  there,  as  if  she  had  been  reading  about  a  stranger. 

"On  Sunday  last  the  grim  Reaper  called  from  our  midst  an 
esteemed  citizen,  Mr.  August  Kaetterhenry.  August  Ernst  Kaet- 
terhenry  was  born  on  a  farm  near  Turkey  Creek,  Iowa,  on  Sep- 


306  RUTH  SUCKOW 

tember  10,  1859.  He  was  the  fifth  son  of  Casper  and  Luisa  Kaet- 
terhenry,  who  were  natives  of  Pommern,  Germany." 

She  read,  as  if  she  had  never  known  it  before,  how  August  had 
had  "such  education  as  the  schools  of  that  day  afforded,"  how  he  had 
"left  his  native  township  and  come  to  Richland  Township  to  seek 
his  fortune,  working  for  a  time  on  the  farm  of  the  late  Henry  Baum- 
gartner,  well-known  Richland  Township  farmer."  Then  how  "he 
was  united  in  marriage  with  Emma  Stille,  daughter  of  Wilhelm, 
now  known  as  Grandpa  Stille,  and  to  them  six  children  were  born, 
all  of  whom  survive."  How  he  had  acquired  the  farm,  how  he  had 
made  it  into  one  of  the  best  improved  farms  in  Richland  Township, 
"where  the  deceased's  son,  Carl  Kaetterhenry,  is  now  operating  the 
farm  on  the  principles  taught  him  by  his  father.  .  .  .  Mr.  Kaetter- 
henry was  known  to  all  his  neighbours  as  a  conscientious  farmer  and 
an  honest,  upright  man.  He  united  with  the  Methodist  denomina- 
tion when  a  young  man,  and  was  all  his  life  one  of  its  most  faithful 
members  and  one  whose  loss  will  be  felt  by  the  church  and  com- 
munity. .  .  .  Mr.  Kaetterhenry  is  survived  by  his  sorrowing  widow, 
Mrs.  Emma  Kaetterhenry,  and  by  his  children  Frank,  Mrs.  Joe 
Fields,  Mrs.  Roy  Robbins,  Carl,  John,  and  Marguerite  and  by 
numerous  grandchildren.  Also  by  his  sisters  Mrs.  Ed  Klaus  and  Mrs. 
Mina  Nisson  and  brothers  Henry  and  Ferdinand  Kaetterhenry,  all 
of  Turkey  Creek." 

She  had  never  seen  all  their  names  in  print  before.  "Esteemed 
resident,"  "retired  farmer"— it  sounded  like  someone  else  than 
August. 

Emma  cut  these  columns  out  from  several  papers  and  folded  the 
strips  in  the  old  "doctor-book"  that  lay  on  the  doily  on  the  bottom 
shelf  of  the  bookcase  behind  the  glass  door. 

Ill:    THE  ESTATE 

Then  there  was  all  the  settling-up  of  the  estate  to  be  done. 

August  had  never  let  Emma  know  anything  of  business  affairs.  Of 
late  years  he  had  permitted  her  to  do  a  small  amount  of  the  buying, 
but  he  had  never  thought  of  letting  her  handle  anything  that  was 
not  directly  connected  with  the  household.  He  had  bought  the  meat, 
subscribed  for  the  papers,  planned  the  garden,  managed  everything. 
Now,  suddenly,  she  had  to  see  to  all  these  things. 

It  worried  her  at  first.  Even  a  little  thing  like  sending  the  "card 
of  thanks"  that  must  be  inserted  in  the  next  issue  of  the  Banner: 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  307 

"We,  the  undersigned,  wish  to  thank  our  friends  and  neigh- 
bours for  their  kindness  to  us  during  the  illness  and  death  of 
our  husband  and  father  and  for  the  beautiful  flowers. 

"(Signed)  Mrs.  Emma  Kaetterhenry. 
"The  Children." 

There  was  one  of  these  cards  in  every  issue  of  the  Banner,  and 
Emma  always  read  them  conscientiously,  but  still  she  did  not  know 
how  to  go  about  it  to  have  her  own  put  there.  She  made  Johnnie 
write  it  for  her  and  take  it  down  to  the  Banner  office. 

She  hadn't  been  used  to  getting  the  mail.  She  didn't  know  whether 
to  keep  on  subscribing  for  the  farm  journal  or  not.  She  "hated  to 
let  it  go,"  since  August  had  taken  it  so  long.  She  could  not  conceive 
of  subscribing  instead  for  a  household  magazine  for  herself.  That 
seemed  too  audacious.  She  had  scarcely  been  inside  the  bank.  She 
had  no  idea  how  to  make  out  a  cheque,  and  was  afraid  of  her  cheque- 
book. She  employed  devices  for  getting  out  of  going  to  the  bank, 
such  as  making  out  a  cheque  to  Johnnie  under  his  directions  and 
having  him  cash  it,  and  keeping  the  money  that  came  in  to  her  from 
this  and  that.  Although  Johnnie  explained  the  cheque-book  to  her, 
she  said  that  she  would  never  know  from  that  how  much  money  she 
had,  not  unless  her  money  was  somewhere  where  she  could  see  it 
and  "keep  track  of  it."  She  was  afraid  to  draw  a  cent.  She  liked  to 
keep  silver  and  odd  change  in  an  old  tea-pot  in  the  cupboard,  as  she 
had  kept  the  egg  money.  There  was  the  worry  over  what  to  do  with 
the  car.  She  would  never  use  it.  She  hated  to  have  it  "sitting  in  the 
garage."  Some  of  these  auto  thieves  might  steal  it. 

There  were  all  the  little  worries,  too,  that  immediately  followed 
August's  death.  For  a  time  she  was  "pestered"  by  catalogues  and 
visits  from  monument  men  from  Dubuque  and  Rapids  City.  One 
of  the  salesmen,  a  slick  young  fellow  with  bright  grey  eyes  set  too 
close  together,  upset  her  dreadfully  by  wanting  her  to  order  a  large 
monument  and  two  markers  with  "Father"  and  "Mother,"  promising 
her  a  reduction  if  she  would  get  all  three.  Emma  said,  "It  would 
make  me  think  I  was  dead  a'ready."  The  children  said  that  she 
needn't  order  the  things,  but  Emma  told  them  that  she  didn't  see 
how  else  she  was  ever  going  to  get  rid  of  that  fellow.  She  even  got  a 
sample  copy  of  the  old-fashioned  black  memorial  cards  with  a  verse 
and  the  name  in  gold,  "Mr.  August  Kaetterhenry."  She  wondered 
how  those  people  had  known  that  August  was  dead,  and  how  they 
had  got  his  name.  She  remembered  that  they  had  had  cards  like  that 
when  her  oldest  sister  Bertha  had  died,  but  they  were  so  "gloomy- 


3o8  RUTH   SUCKOW 

looking"  that  she  was  glad  the  children  didn't  want  her  to  get  them 
now. 

People  were  interested  to  hear  whether  August  had  left  a  will. 
There  would  be  a  muddle  if  he  hadn't.  Emma  said,  "Ach,  I  don't 
think  pa  ever  made  a  will."  But  he  had  made  one,  it  seemed,  when 
he  had  moved  into  town,  although  he  hadn't  told  them  anything 
about  it.  The  lawyer,  E.  P.  Bland,  read  it  to  all  of  them.  Emma  had 
never  known  before  "what  they  had."  She  did  not  understand  very 
well  now.  She  had  thought  that  Frank  owned  the  farm  where  he 
lived,  but  it  seemed  that  August  had  still  been  the  owner  of  it.  Now 
both  the  farms  were  hers.  She  was  to  have  some  rent  from  both  of 
them.  There  was  the  stock  in  the  bank,  which  was  divided  among 
the  family,  and  a  little  piece  of  land  in  Montana  that  no  one  had 
known  that  August  had,  and  that  went  to  the  children.  Emma  had  the 
house  and  lot  in  town.  She  was  "pretty  well  fixed."  August  had  ac- 
cumulated more  than  Emma  had  thought;  not  so  much  as  certain 
people  in  town  had  predicted,  who  always  said  of  other  people, 
"Aw,  he's  got  more  tucked  away  than  anybody  knows  about."  Of 
course  Emma  would  have  the  taxes  and  insurance  and  repairs,  things 
she  had  never  thought  of  before. 

The  children  wanted  to  sell  that  Montana  land  at  once  and  get 
what  they  could  out  of  it.  They  had  always  been  a  little  afraid  of 
their  father.  Even  after  he  had  left  the  farm  and  moved  to  town, 
the  thought  of  him  had  checked  them.  Now  they  began  to  blossom 
out  a  little,  to  get  things,  to  think  of  themselves  as  really  adult. 

Frank  wouldn't  do  much  differently  than  he  had  been  doing.  He 
was  a  settled  young-old  farmer,  short  and  small  and  very  quiet,  a 
good  steady  worker,  but  one  who  was  not  likely  to  get  ahead  very 
far.  He  and  Lottie  had  a  horde  of  children,  and  they  were  one  of 
those  families  who  are  always  having  accidents,  sickness,  and  doc- 
tor's bills.  Frank  was  caught  in  the  gasolene  engine  and  just  missed 
being  killed  or  mangled.  Lottie,  big  sturdy  woman  that  she  was, 
had  had  several  operations  performed  by  her  brother-in-law,  a  doc- 
tor in  Bishop.  There  was  one  thing  after  another  the  matter  with 
the  children.  Their  farm  was  an  untidy  place,  much  like  their  uncle 
Herman's. 

Carl  would  do  better.  He  was  going  to  make  as  good  a  farmer  as 
his  father.  Better,  some  people  thought.  While  he  might  not  be  able 
to  keep  at  it  quite  so  doggedly,  might  not  be  quite  so  saving,  he  was 
more  ready  to  try  things,  less  stubborn  and  set  in  his  ways.  He  was 
just  as  particular  about  the  buildings  and  machinery  as  August  had 
been.  His  wife,  Clara,  was  a  hustler.  She  had  nearly  a  thousand 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  309 

chickens,  and  was  making  money  with  them.  Her  canned  goods  took 
prizes  at  the  Farmers'  Institute  in  the  armoury  building  in  "Wapsie." 
Carl  and  Clara  worked  hard,  but  they  "went,"  too.  They  were  going 
to  have  some  fun  as  they  went  along.  They  had  no  fear  of  poverty 
in  their  old  age. 

The  farm  looked  very  different  now.  Carl  had  had  the  house 
"pebble-dashed."  August's  name  was  gone  from  the  barn  now,  which 
was  painted  a  new  shining  white. 

Mary,  in  a  way,  scarcely  belonged  to  the  family  any  more;  she  and 
Joe  lived  so  far  away,  or  it  seemed  far  away.  They  were  part  of  the 
Adams  Grove  neighbourhood  now,  and  did  their  trading  in  Bishop. 
Joe's  farm  was  in  the  timber  country  there.  There  were  some  lime- 
stone cliffs  and  a  little  glen  on  the  edge  of  their  own  land.  The 
whole  country  was  different  from  that  around  Richland.  Not  just 
like  the  Turkey  Creek  country,  but  hilly  and  backwoodsy  and  queer. 

Mary  and  Joe  seemed  to  be  happy  together.  Mary  had  never  had 
much  but  hard  work  out  of  life,  except  for  those  few  years  when  she 
had  been  a  mysterious  invalid.  She  had  two  children  of  her  own  be- 
sides the  other  four.  There  was  no  more  time  for  books  now  than 
she  had  ever  had,  but  she  found  an  outlet  in  the  neighbourhood 
church,  where  she  taught  a  large  Sunday-school  class  and  worked 
with  the  young  people.  She  went  with  them  to  Epworth  League  con- 
ventions, and  she  was  famed  for  having  the  best  papers  in  the  mis- 
sionary society.  Sunday  school  was  the  only  glimpse  of  anything 
besides  "practical  work"  that  Mary  had  ever  known. 

Elva  and  Roy  were  talking  now  of  moving  to  Oklahoma.  Roy 
had  a  cousin  who  had  an  interest  in  some  oil-wells  out  there,  and 
Roy  was  wild  to  go,  "quit  this  farming." 

Johnnie  was  turning  out  better  now.  He  bought  out  the  Beal 
brothers  in  the  garage,  and  he  took  the  little  house  near  his  mother's 
where  Nannie  Frost  had  lived.  The  garage  was  on  a  highway  and  did 
a  good  business.  But  it  worried  Emma  that  it  kept  Johnnie  so  busy 
all  the  time.  He  was  up  until  all  hours  of  the  night.  He  was  a  good 
mechanic.  The  fact  that  he  was  dealing  with  things  that  would  go, 
his  sight  of  passing  travel,  eased  his  restlessness.  He  was  less  nervous 
now.  But  he  had  never  been  the  same  boy  since  the  war.  It  seemed 
to  have  affected  Johnnie  and  Carl  in  opposite  ways. 

Johnnie  was  tremendously  fond  of  Junior,  but  otherwise  he  was 
not  very  happy  at  home.  He  had  no  illusions  about  Bernice.  He 
knew  that  she  was  a  fool.  She  was  shiftless,  and  there  were  frequent 
ructions  with  his  mother-in-law.  He  seemed  to  enjoy  being  near  his 
mother,  although  he  seldom  went  in  and  talked  to  her.  He  brought 


310  RUTH  SUCKOW 

home  the  mail  for  her  and  cashed  cheques  and  saw  about  the  insur- 
ance. She  was  better  satisfied  when  she  thought  of  him  now;  but  it 
worried  her  that  Johnnie  seemed  to  care  nothing  for  the  church. 
She  tried,  timidly  and  anxiously,  to  get  him  to  go.  He  usually  said 
that  he  couldn't  get  away  from  the  garage,  but  once  he  told  her, 
"No,  mamma,  I'm  all  through  with  that.  It  don't  meant  anything  to 
me."  She  thought  that  perhaps  it  came  from  having  a  business  that 
ran  on  Sunday,  and  that  grandpa  had  been  right:  this  Sunday  travel 
was  going  to  ruin  the  country.  That  wild  streak  in  Johnnie  that  had 
troubled  them  for  a  while  seemed  to  be  wearing  off,  but  there  was 
a  kind  of  bitterness  that  she  couldn't  understand.  She  thought 
Johnnie  looked  older  than  Carl.  He  was  so  thin!  And  his  sunburned 
skin,  his  fair  hair,  his  oil-stained  khaki  overalls  seemed  all  of  a 
colour— the  colour  of  the  dust  on  the  highway  that  followed  the 
wheels  of  the  cars  going  endlessly  past  the  garage. 

Marguerite  had  finished  the  high  school  now.  Emma  would  have 
liked  to  have  her  stay  at  home  for  company,  but  Marguerite  wanted 
to  go  and  take  a  business  course  in  Rapids  City.  Half  the  youth  of 
Richland  were  going  to  business  college  now,  either  in  Rapids  City 
or  Dubuque,  and  Marguerite  had  to  go,  too.  She  wanted  to  earn 
money  of  her  own,  so  that  she  could  buy  the  kind  of  clothes  she 
liked.  She  wanted  to  be  in  a  larger  town. 

All  of  the  children  lived  better  than  their  parents  had  done,  unless 
it  was  Mary.  They  came  into  town  often,  and  they  thought  nothing 
of  driving  to  Dubuque  for  a  day.  They  had  all  given  elaborate  names 
to  their  children,  which  sounded  absurd  with  the  old  German  sur- 
names: Maxine,  Velda,  Delight,  Gwendolyn,  Eugene,  Dwayne. 

Not  long  after  August's  death,  Emma  went  out  to  Mollie's  to  see 
her  father.  Carl  took  her  out  and  was  to  call  for  her.  She  hadn't  been 
there  for  months.  Grandpa  Stille  was  over  ninety  now.  Who  could 
tell  how  much  longer  he  might  be  there? 

It  was  a  sunny  September  day.  The  willows  along  the  edge  of 
Herman's  farm  sprinkled  narrow,  shiny,  yellow  leaves  over  the  drive 
where  they  turned  in,  which  had  a  patch  of  smooth,  leathery,  brown- 
ish-black mud,  with  cracks  across  it.  The  dingy  house  and  the  scraggly 
grove  had  a  kind  of  beauty  to-day  in  the  sunshine  and  the  burning 
blue  sky. 

She  found  grandpa  in  his  room  on  the  west  of  the  house,  the  win- 
dow looking  out  on  the  willow  grove.  Mollie  took  her  in  to  him, 
went  up,  and  shouted: 

"Pa,  si  eh  wer  hier  ist!" 

He  peered  forward. 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  311 

"Ach,  ja,  ja,  ja—Emma  ist's?  Ja,  so!"  He  put  out  a  hand  that 
trembled  slightly. 

He  was  thinner,  bonier  than  ever,  his  hair  only  a  few  long  silver 
wisps  under  an  old  skull-cap,  his  mouth  sunken  in  under  his  beard. 
His  deep-set  brown  eyes  still  had  life  in  them.  Despite  the  age  and 
the  dinginess,  those  dark  quilts  that  she  knew  so  well  on  the  billow- 
ing feather-bed,  the  bare  floor  painted  a  dark  red,  there  was  a  beauty 
that  she  felt  in  the  old  room  to-day,  with  the  September  sunlight 
slanting  in  through  the  window  and  a  rustling  sound  from  the 
willow  grove. 

Mollie  and  Herman  had  told  her  that  the  old  man  seldom  talked 
to  them  now.  He  seemed  to  be  somewhere  in  a  place  of  his  own.  Yet 
his  mind,  when  he  did  talk,  was  as  clear  as  ever.  Now  that  the  dread- 
ful war  was  over,  he  had  gone  back  to  his  dreams.  He  came  back 
with  an  effort,  repeated  her  name,  sighed  over  the  death  of  August 
so  jung,  but  declared  that  there  was  no  great  sorrow  in  dying;  roused 
to  ask  her  why  die  kleine  Marguerite  never  came  out  to  see  her  old 
grandpa.  They  talked  in  German.  He  answered  her  when  she  told 
him  where  Marguerite  was  now  and  what  the  boys  were  doing,  of 
August's  death.  He  was  kind,  and  held  her  hand  as  she  talked,  looked 
at  her  with  affection  in  his  thin  old  face,  told  her  that  she  was  a  good 
girl.  He  mourned  that  she  should  have  lost  her  husband.  But  when 
she  left  him  he  seemed  to  go  back  at  once  into  that  reverie  in  which 
he  lived  now,  broken  only  by  occasional  mutterings,  as  in  the  old 
days.  But  they  were  peaceful  mutterings  now. 

She  stayed  awhile  with  Mollie.  They  talked  about  their  father. 
Emma  said: 

"Grandpa  seems  to  be  real  content." 

"Ach,  ja,"  Mollie  said  easily,  "he's  always  happy." 

"Ja,  but  what  does  he  do  in  there  alone  all  day?  I  should  think 
he'd  get  awful'  lonesome." 

"No,  he  don't  get  lonesome.  Ach,  I  don't  know  what  he  does.  He 
always  seems  to  have  plenty  to  think  about.  He  used  to  read,  but 
that  he  can't  do  any  more." 

"I  hate  to  see  him  sit  alone  like  that/* 

"Ach,  he's  all  right." 

What  was  he  doing,  thinking?  Mollie  said  that  sometimes  they 
heard  him  singing  old  German  hymns,  so  old  that  she  didn't  know 
them.  He  wanted  nothing  but  his  tobacco,  his  meals,  wood  for  his 
stove  in  winter. 

Mollie  had  gone  to  the  kitchen  for  some  eggs  that  she  was  going 
to  give  Emma  to  take  home.  Emma  heard  the  old  man,  in  his  room, 


3i2  RUTH  SUCKOW 

praying.  She  had  forgotten  how  he  used  to  do  that,  so  that  it  startled 
her  for  a  moment.  The  German  words,  guttural,  rich,  with  long 
pauses  between,  had  a  sound  that  was  unearthly  and  yet  fitting  in  the 
still,  sunlit  country  air.  She  looked  into  his  room.  He  sat  in  the  old 
wooden  rocker.  His  deep  eyes  had  a  withdrawn,  mystic  look.  He  did 
not  notice  her.  Mollie  said: 

"Ja,  we  often  hear  him  doing  that/* 

Emma  thought  about  it  as  Carl  was  driving  her  home  between 
the  September  fields  of  dusty  gold  in  the  late  afternoon.  She  could 
still  hear  those  faint,  far-apart,  devout  German  words.  August  had 
always  said  that  if  her  father  had  been  more  of  a  farmer  and  less  of 
a  preacher,  he'd  be  better  off  to-day.  August  had  despised  him  in  a 
dispassionate  way.  But  the  old  man  had  had  something,  she  hardly 
knew  what,  that  had  lasted  him  when  his  work  was  over. 

"He's  got  something  to  think  about/'  she  thought. 

It  was  that  something,  she  could  not  name  it,  which  she  had  missed 
all  her  married  life. 

She  remembered  the  pathos  of  August,  coming  in  from  the  farm 
and  saying  bitterly  that  everything  had  to  go  Carl's  way  now;  of  him 
sitting  about  the  house,  trying  to  look  at  the  farm  journal,  not  know- 
ing what  to  do  with  himself.  Her  father,  what  a  frail  man  he  had 
been  when  he  had  first  come  to  live  with  them  years  ago!  And  here 
he  was  living  still,  contented  with  the  little  that  he  had,  and  well, 
and  August  was  the  one  who  was  gone. 

IV:    MRS.  EMMA  KAETTERHENRY 

Retired  farmers,  widows,  spinsters— these  made  up  most  of  the  little 
town  of  Richland.  Emma  was  one  of  the  widows  now— widows  living 
alone  on  small  independent  incomes,  on  the  rents  from  farms,  or 
helped  by  their  children. 

Marguerite  was  in  Rapids  City  now.  Women  in  Richland  said  dis- 
approvingly that  she  ought  to  have  stayed  with  her  mother,  but  they 
were  appeased  by  hearing  that  Marguerite  was  making  twenty-two 
dollars  a  week  as  a  stenographer.  And  they  heard  that  she  was  en- 
gaged to  that  young  fellow  who  sometimes  came  home  with  her, 
although  she  didn't  seem  to  be  marrying  him. 

She  came  home  over  Sunday  sometimes.  She  brought  her  "friend," 
a  slim,  glossy-haired  young  man  who  was  employed  in  an  office  in 
Rapids  City,  and  who  had  bought  a  second-hand  car  in  which  they 
drove  to  Richland.  They  drove  down  on  Sunday  morning,  and  after 
dinner  they  either  sat  talking  in  low,  meaning  voices  while  Emma 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  313 

dozed— "You  didn't?  Oh,  you  did,  too.  How  do  /  know?  Sure  I  know!" 
—or  drove  out  to  Carl's.  Emma  told  Marguerite  that  she  ought  to 
stop  and  see  grandpa;  but  when  they  came  back,  and  she  asked  them 
about  it,  Marguerite  said,  "Oh,  we  didn't  get  over  there  this  time." 
Emma  did  not  know  whether  these  two  were  engaged  or  not. 

Marguerite  had  converted  herself  into  a  very  urban  young  lady. 
Her  chief  business  in  staying  in  Rapids  City  was  to  watch  the  proper 
length  of  skirts  and  waists  and  to  have  everything  right.  She  was  tall, 
still  thin,  and  wore  her  clothes  well.  The  only  thing  about  her  looks 
that  really  worried  her  was  that  her  hair  was  too  fuzzy  to  take  a  wave 
well.  She  and  another  girl  were  doing  their  own  cooking  in  light- 
housekeeping  rooms,  and  what  she  saved  on  food  she  spent  on  clothes. 
Emma  thought  it  was  dreadful  when  she  saw  what  Marguerite  was 
wearing  out  to  Carl's,  "just  out  in  the  country"— those  sheer  dresses 
and  light,  high-heeled  slippers  and  silk  stockings.  But  she  did  noth- 
ing more  than  murmur: 

"Is  that  what  you're  going  to  wear  out  there?  Won't  you  spoil  it?" 

Marguerite  was  a  real  Kaetterhenry,  however.  At  home  she  had 
done  none  of  the  work,  but  now  that  she  had  a  job,  although  the 
interest  of  her  life  was  in  clothes,  she  did  her  work  well  and  dis- 
dained the  slipshod  ways  of  other  stenographers.  She  was  cool,  hard, 
scrupulous,  level-headed,  a  good  worker.  She  seemed  to  be  a  nice, 
capable  girl,  people  in  Richland  had  decided,  although  she  wasn't 
much  comfort  to  her  mother. 

Even  if  she  was  alone,  there  were  still  claims  upon  Emma.  There 
was  the  Aid  Society,  of  which  she  was  now  one  of  the  chief  supports. 
She  still  worked  in  the  kitchen  at  church  suppers.  She  was  sent  for 
when  there  was  sickness  in  the  country.  She  was  often  called  upon  to 
keep  the  grandchildren  while  Carl  and  Clara,  or  Elva  and  Roy,  drove 
to  Dubuque.  Some  of  the  little  ones  stayed  with  her  while  the  others 
were  sick  with  measles  or  whooping-cough  or  scarlet  fever.  She  often 
had  Junior  with  her.  Bernice  was  "always  on  the  go,"  or  fancied  that 
she  had  something  the  matter  with  her.  "Ma"— "grandma"  they  were 
beginning  to  call  her— was  still  the  stand-by  of  all  the  children,  and 
"grandma's  house"  was  the  place  where  they  all  expected  to  go  when 
they  went  to  town. 

But  in  a  way  she  was  knowing  leisure  for  the  first  time  in  her  life. 
She  did  not  feel  the  responsibility  that  she  had  felt  when  things  were 
dependent  upon  her  alone.  She  always  had  plenty  of  time  to  herself. 
She  was  doing  what  she  pleased  in  ways  that  she  had  never  done 
before.  She  had  friends  outside  her  home,  elderly  ladies  like  herself, 
with  whom  she  spent  pleasant,  gossipy  afternoons,  as  she  hadn't  done 


314  RUTH  SUCKOW 

while  August  was  living.  Her  personality,  smothered  and  silent  foi 
many  years,  was  blossoming  out,  very  faintly  and  timidly,  but  a  little, 
enough  to  shed  a  kind  of  light  of  content  and  freedom  over  this  quiet 
end  of  life.  She  might  be  lonely  later  on,  but  she  was  not  now.  She 
was  a  Stille,  not  a  Kaetterhenry.  That  showed  now.  She  could  be 
happy  pottering  about  on  her  own  devices.  The  children  said  ma 
got  along  better  alone  than  they'd  been  afraid  she  would. 

She  had  gradually  got  used  to  the  fact  that  money  was  her  own, 
that  there  was  no  one  but  herself  to  say  what  she  should  spend  and 
what  she  shouldn't.  She  did  not  say  much  about  it,  but  not  even  her 
children  realized  what  a  wonder  and  pleasure  it  was  to  her  to  have 
a  little  money  in  her  own  hands.  She  still  felt  timid  and  out  of  place 
when  she  went  into  the  bank.  She  made  the  boys  do  it  for  her.  She 
was  still  very  cautious  about  what  she  spent,  could  not  overcome  the 
lifelong  habit  of  hoarding  and  thinking  about  the  future.  It  seemed 
wicked  to  her  to  spend  more  than  a  very  little  on  herself,  she  had 
had  the  self-effacement  of  mother  and  wife  so  ground  into  her.  But 
when  she  admired  a  piece  of  goods  in  the  store  window,  she  could 
think,  "Well,  I  can  have  it  if  I  want  it."  She  needn't  ask  anybody. 

She  could  enjoy  buying  small  presents  for  the  grandchildren,  get- 
ting cloth  to  make  up  for  them,  sending  dollar  bills  in  letters  to 
Marguerite  so  that  she  could  get  herself  something  she  wanted.  She 
gave  generously  when  she  was  solicited  for  the  church,  and  people 
said,  "I  guess  it  was  him  that  was  the  close  one  more  than  she.  She 
gives  real  freely."  She  no  longer  had  to  turn  away  agents  who  came 
to  the  house  selling  things  that  she  didn't  want,  something  that  had 
always  given  her  tender  and  sentimental  heart  a  guilty  feeling.  She 
said  "they  might  need  it;  you  could  never  be  sure."  She'd  rather  take 
the  chance  and  not  send  anyone  away.  She  had  never  subscribed  for 
the  household  magazine  that  she  wanted,  thinking  three  dollars  a 
year  almost  too  sinful  a  waste  for  reading-matter;  but  she  had  a  little 
magazine  at  which  she  never  looked,  having  given  her  subscription 
to  a  young  Armenian— "a  young  foreigner,"  she  called  him— who  had 
asked  her  to  "vote  for  him"  by  giving  him  a  subscription.  The  youth 
who  got  the  most  of  these  "votes"  would  be  elected  by  the  magazine 
company  for  a  year  at  college.  She  never  heard  whether  her  young 
foreigner  had  been  elected. 

Emma  even  talked  of  taking  a  trip  some  time  out  to  Nebraska  to 
see  her  brother  Ed.  But  just  as  soon  as  the  children  began  to  press 
her  to  go,  she  would  begin  to  make  excuses.  She  did  not  quite  have 
the  courage  to  make  a  trip,  or  decide  on  one,  by  herself.  If  they  had 
gone  while  pa  was  still  alive,  then  that  would  have  been  different. 


COUNTRY   PEOPLE  315 

The  children  could  hardly  believe  their  Aunt  Mollie  when  she 
told  them  that  as  a  girl  their  mother  had  "liked  to  go."  Now  it  was 
hard  for  them  to  get  ma  even  to  drive  to  Dubuque  with  them.  She 
only  told  them  mildly,  ach,  she  had  forgotten  how,  she'd  stayed  at 
home  so  much.  It  was  something  that  she  had  looked  forward  to 
when  they  were  working  so  hard  on  the  farm,  that  when  they  "once 
had  something"  and  "got  to  town,"  she  could  go  again  as  much  as 
she  pleased.  She  did  not  tell  the  children  now  how  timid  she  felt 
about  starting  out  anywhere,  how  she  "seemed  better  off  at  home." 

They  could  not  believe,  either,  that  she  had  been  a  giggler,  as 
Mollie  said.  There  was  a  picture  of  Emma  and  Mollie  in  the  album, 
taken  in  the  same  dresses  and  hats  that  they  had  worn  to  the  Rich- 
land Grove  Fourth  of  July  celebration,  the  first  place  where  Emma 
had  gone  with  August.  The  children  laughed  over  Aunt  Mollie's 
spit-curls,  and  said  that  she  needn't  talk;  and  their  mother's  hat  with 
a  ridiculous  feather,  the  attitude  of  the  two  girls  sitting  there  dis- 
playing their  finery.  The  children  said,  "Don't  you  talk  to  us!"  But 
they  couldn't  really  believe  that  their  quiet,  shy  mother  had  been 
as  she  looked  in  that  photograph. 

But  she  did  go  a  little,  more  than  she  had  been  doing.  She  never 
missed  church,  of  course.  She  went  to  the  "aids"  and  the  missionary- 
meetings.  She  got  Mrs.  Henry  Stille  to  stop  for  her  and  went  to  the 
Social  Circle  Club.  She  didn't  mind  going  to  places  so  much  if  she 
had  someone  to  go  with  her.  She  enjoyed  entertaining  the  club  more 
now  than  when  she  had  felt  that  it  was  bothering  August.  He  had 
grumbled  about  "What  do  all  those  women  want  to  sit  around  and 
talk  for?  Better  go  home  and  look  after  their  houses."  She  felt  more 
free  to  serve  what  refreshments  she  pleased. 

She  looked  better  than  she  had  for  years,  a  plump,  shapeless  eld- 
erly woman,  with  grey  hair  a  little  curling;  spectacles— good  ones 
now,  with  light,  narrow  shell  rims;  she  had  got  them  "up  at  Roches- 
ter"—and  mild,  soft,  faded  brown  eyes.  She  was  dowdy  and  countri- 
fied, but  wore  clothes  of  lasting  materials,  always  having  one  good 
silk  dress,  and  letting  Marguerite  persuade  her  to  buy  a  new  spring 
hat  instead  of  wearing  her  old  one  again. 

She  still  got  up  early  every  morning.  Not  so  early  as  when  August 
was  living,  however.  Then  they  were  awake  at  four,  as  they  had  been 
in  the  country.  Now  she  lay  abed  sometimes  until  after  six  o'clock. 
That  gave  her  a  scared,  delicious,  audacious  feeling.  She  liked  to 
work  in  the  garden  in  the  early  morning.  She  enjoyed  having  time 
for  flowers.  She  had  always  had  a  few  on  the  farm,  but  couldn't  take 
care  of  them.  They  were  food  for  her  sense  of  beauty.  Now  she  chose 


316  RUTH  SUCKOW 

the  seeds  herself.  She  planted  moss  roses  near  the  house  and  had 
Johnnie  put  up  a  trellis,  shocked  that  he  did  it  on  Sunday.  She  liked 
to  be  out  there  planting  in  the  spring.  She  put  on  an  ancient  black 
calico  wrapper,  a  sunbonnet,  a  black,  padded,  sleeveless  jacket,  and 
some  old  shoes  of  August's,  and  went  out  in  the  yard.  It  was  silent 
and  sunny,  no  sound  but  an  occasional  car  on  the  road,  a  rooster 
crowing,  sometimes  the  noise  of  Junior's  little  kiddy-car  on  the 
cement  walk.  She  liked  the  feel  of  the  cool  spring  earth,  sun-warmed 
on  the  surface,  black  and  moist  and  chill  underneath,  as  she  patted 
it  over  the  tiny  dry  seeds.  She  talked  to  Junior,  said,  "Dig  over  there 
in  the  corner,  Junie,  if  you  have  to  dig  too,  then";  but  her  mind 
was  far  away  from  him,  in  some  wordless  place  of  mysterious  content. 

She  ate  most  of  her  meals  alone  at  the  little  table  in  the  kitchen. 
That  was  what  she  minded  most  of  living  alone— the  meals.  Carl  and 
Clara  had  made  her  promise  that  she  would  cook  herself  real  meals 
and  not  just  take  to  lunching,  as  many  women  did  when  they  had  no 
men  to  cook  for.  She  obeyed  them  pretty  well,  although  sometimes 
she  said,  "Ach,  just  for  myself!"  She  took  great  pains  with  her  house- 
work, although  she  worked  slowly  since  there  was  no  reason  to  hurry. 
There  was  a  kind  of  mystery  and  contentment,  too,  in  moving  about 
the  quiet,  bright  house  as  she  worked.  She  wanted  to  keep  the  floors 
as  shining  as  when  the  house  was  new.  It  worried  her,  although  she 
did  not  say  so,  to  have  the  grandchildren  "get  things  around."  After 
they  had  gone,  she  went  about  picking  things  up  after  them.  She  had 
never  had  time  for  that  on  the  farm. 

In  the  afternoon  she  often  had  to  take  care  of  Junior  for  Bernice. 
He  was  her  favourite,  although  she  would  not  say  so,  of  all  the  grand- 
children, just  as  Johnnie  had  secretly  been  her  favourite  of  the  chil- 
dren. Junior  didn't  seem  to  have  suffered  from  the  shortcomings  of 
his  mother.  He  was  one  of  the  sturdiest  babies  in  town,  one  of  whom 
women  said  lovingly,  "That  dear  little  Junior  Kaetterhenry!"  and 
men,  "Ain't  he  a  buster,  though!"  His  fat,  white  cheeks  and  his 
brown  eyes  and  his  engaging  smile,  the  fact  that  he  had  won  second 
place  in  the  baby-show  in  "Wapsie,"  consoled  his  grandmother  for 
the  fact  that  Johnnie  had  made  a  poor  marriage,  and  that  he  didn't 
go  to  church  or  "believe."  It  seemed  that  the  Lord  must  not  be  angry 
with  Johnnie,  since  he  had  given  him  Junior.  She  baked  cookies  so 
that  she  would  have  some  for  Junior— "gran'ma's  cookies,"  he  called 
them— and  had  bought  some  little  celluloid  animals  at  the  ten-cent 
store  in  Dubuque.  He  followed  her  about  the  house  and  asked  ques- 
tions, and  shrieked  "Daddy!"  when  any  man  went  past  in  an  auto- 
mobile. And  yet  she  felt  it  a  kind  of  strain  to  have  him  there.  She 


COUNTRY  PEOPLE  317 

loved  him,  but  she  felt  a  kind  of  relief  when  Bernice  eame  flouncing 
in  to  get  him  and  take  him  home. 

She  did  more  fancy  work  now.  She  liked  to  make  little  clothes  for 
the  grandchildren,  and  tried  to  be  very  impartial  with  them.  Mar- 
guerite picked  out  "cute  patterns"  for  her  in  Rapids  City.  These  little 
youngest  Kaetterhenrys  dressed  very  differently  than  her  children  had 
done.  She  made  little  bright-coloured  chambray  frocks,  with  apples 
and  morning-glories  in  applique. 

She  had  to  care  for  the  lot  in  the  cemetery.  She  got  Johnnie  to 
drive  her  out  there.  She  said  that  she  didn't  mind  walking  back,  and 
usually  there  was  someone  coming  along  in  a  car  who  would  take 
her  as  far  as  town.  The  monument  was  up  now,  a  large,  square,  pol- 
ished grey  stone,  with  "KAETTERHENRY"  carved  upon  it;  below 
that: 

"August  Ernst 
1859-1922" 

and  below  that  a  space.  But  she  had  not  bought  her  own  marker. 
Johnnie  had  got  rid  of  the  monument  man  for  her.  She  had  had  a 
photograph  taken  of  the  lot  when  the  stone  was  put  up,  and  she  cher- 
ished that. 

She  kept  a  vase  on  August's  grave,  which  she  filled  with  flowers  in 
the  summer,  although  the  bunches  of  sweet-peas  and  cosmos  fre- 
quently withered  before  she  could  get  out  with  a  fresh  bouquet.  She 
had  had  a  small  bridal-wreath  bush  set  out  in  a  corner  of  the  lot. 
This  summer  she  was  going  to  have  a  border  of  that  little  pink  love- 
in-a-mist  around  the  grave.  She  wanted  her  lot  to  look  as  well  as  any 
in  the  cemetery. 

The  Richland  cemetery  was  in  a  high,  sunny  spot.  She  was  not 
unhappy  as  she  went  about  there,  filling  the  vase,  moving  slowly 
down  the  narrow  path  through  the  thick  grass  to  the  small  iron  gate. 

She  told  the  children  that  she  did  not  lack  for  company.  Another 
elderly  widow  who  had  been  a  farmer's  wife,  Mrs.  Wall,  lived  on  the 
next  street  in  a  large,  square  house  painted  pale  blue.  Emma  called 
for  Mrs.  Wall,  and  they  went  to  the  prayer-meeting  and  the  evening 
church-service  together,  and  to  the  missionary-meeting  and  the  "aid." 
It  "made  it  nice  for  both  of  them,"  people  said. 

Mrs.  Wall  came  over  sometimes  in  the  evening.  They  sat  together, 
sometimes  in  the  front  room,  or  "just  out  in  the  kitchen."  Mrs.  Wall 
knew  more  of  what  was  going  on  than  Emma  did,  although  she  said 
that  she  didn't  hear  so  much  now  that  she  didn't  have  a  man  coming 
home  from  town.  They  talked  over  illnesses  and  approaching  wed- 


318  RUTH  SUCKOW 

dings  and  of  those  whom  they  had  seen  going  past  their  houses  that 
day.  Emma  told  Mrs.  Wall  about  her  operation,  and  Mrs.  Wall  told 
her  about  those  of  sisters  and  sisters-in-law  and  brothers.  They  talked 
about  the  birth  of  children  and  grandchildren.  Each  one  found  a 
consolation  in  detailing  to  the  other  the  last  illness  and  death  of  her 
husband— all  the  symptoms  from  week  to  week,  the  death,  the  laying- 
out,  the  funeral,  in  hushed,  confiding  voices,  shaking  their  heads  and 
murmuring,  "Yes,  oh,  it  must  have  been  terrible.  I  know  what  that 
is."  They  sat  in  the  twilight  together,  sympathizing  and  condoling 
and  narrating.  Emma  said  it  helped  her  to  have  someone  to  tell  these 
things  to.  She  would  not  have  told  them  to  the  children. 

The  two  women  talked  of  religion  together,  of  what  they  thought 
heaven  was  going  to  be  like,  of  the  way  that  they  thought  God  looked 
at  things.  Emma  had  no  such  mystic  fervour  as  her  old  father,  but 
the  hymns,  the  prayers,  the  familiar  words,  were  an  emotional  satis- 
faction. They  comforted  her. 

They  talked  of  their  troubles,  said  of  them  that  such  things  were 
hard  to  bear;  they  didn't  always  see  why  they  must  be— Johnnie's 
getting  such  a  poor  wife  and  turning  away  from  the  church,  Grandma 
Stille's  helplessness,  Mr.  Wall's  sufferings  from  cancer.  These  women 
had  both  worked  hard.  Now  they  were  getting  old,  and  many  tlrngs 
had  not  turned  out  as  they  had  thought  they  would. 

Mrs.  Wall  sometimes  said: 

"Well,  we've  all  had  our  troubles.  All  had  things  to  go  through. 
Well,  I  say  we  ought  to  be  thankful  that  we've  got  good  homes,  and 
children  to  look  after  us  if  we  need  it;  that  we  don't  have  to  be  sent 
to  the  poorhouse  like  that  poor  old  woman  in  Bishop  the  other  day. 
Did  you  hear  about  that?" 

Emma  said: 

"]a,  that's  true,  too." 


THE       THREE       READERS 


'X 


Section  III:  Selected  by  Carl  Fan  Dor  en 


Introductory  Remarks 


It  is  chiefly  by  accident  that  all  these  selections  are  from  American 
writers.  That  was  not,  at  first,  my  conscious  aim.  But  when  the 
work  was  nearly  done  I  noticed  that  the  Americans  were  much  in  the 
majority  and  decided  to  let  them  have  the  field  to  themselves.  Be- 
yond this  there  is  no  general  comment  I  can  make  on  the  pieces  here 
included  except  that  I  delighted  in  every  one  of  them  at  first  read- 
ing, still  enjoy  them,  and  would  like  to  share  my  pleasure  with  other 
readers. 

The  Jefferson  letter  to  Maria  Cosway  I  had  not  read  till  a  few 
weeks  ago,  when  I  was  sent  to  it  by  a  remark  of  Gerald  Johnson  in  a 
book  review.  Then  I  did  not  read  more  than  a  paragraph  before  I 
was  set  on  putting  it  in  this  Reader,  and  half  afraid  to  go  on  for  fear 
it  might  turn  out  disappointing.  It  did  not.  The  many-sided  mind 
that  had  so  much  more  to  say  about  almost  everything  else  than 
about  love,  here  wrote  about  love  like  a  philosopher,  like  a  man. 
When  Jefferson  wrote  it,  he  was  forty-three  years  old,  four  years  a 
widower,  and  United  States  minister  to  France.  Among  his  close 
friends  in  Paris  were  Richard  and  Maria  Cecilia  Louisa  Cosway, 
both  of  them  English  painters.  When  in  October  1786  they  returned 
to  England,  Jefferson  felt  the  desolation,  tempered  by  philosophy, 
which  appears  in  the  letter  he  sent  after  the  lady.  I  do  not  know 
whether  he  had  ever  told  her  any  of  the  things  he  wrote  or  whether 
she  had  been  aware  of  his  feelings.  She  sent  back  a  note  of  four  lines 
from  Antwerp  which  seemed  to  make  it  plain  that  she  had  only  a 
friendly  interest  in  him.  Their  friendship  survived  the  episode,  and 
they  could  still  exchange  letters  of  affectionate  regard  thirty-four 
years  later. 

My  familiarity  with  George  Ade's  "Fables  in  Slang"  goes  back 
more  than  forty  years,  when  the  earliest  appeared,  but  I  do  not  re- 
member reading  the  one  I  here  include  till  1923  when  I  read  them 
all  for  a  critical  essay  I  was  writing.  This  Fable  belongs  with  half  a 

321 


322  CARL  VAN  DOREN 

dozen  that  have  stuck  in  my  memory  like  burs  ever  since.  There 
were  three  I  found  it  hard  to  decide  among.  But  one  I  had  already 
chosen  for  an  anthology,  and  another  is  a  favorite  of  Sinclair  Lewis, 
who  has  a  kind  of  rediscoverer's  claim  to  it.  What  was  left  to  me  is 
one  of  the  shortest  of  the  Fables,  and  one  of  the  sharpest. 

In  midsummer  1941  I  gave  a  lecture  at  a  town  on  the  Susque- 
hanna. Afterwards  somebody  from  the  audience  told  me  he  had 
been  sorry  to  learn  that  my  friend  Sinclair  Lewis  was  dead.  Then  it 
turned  out  that  Mr.  Lewis,  whom  I  had  seen  a  few  days  before,  had 
reported  his  imaginary  funeral,  with  me  present  among  the  mourners, 
in  a  magazine  which  somebody  else  hurried  out  and  bought  for  me. 
I  thought  and  still  think  that  Mr.  Lewis  has  never  packed  more 
meat  and  more  fun  into  so  few  words  as  there  are  in  "The  Death  of 
Arrowsmith."  Hoax  and  skit,  it  is  also  a  treasure,  like  Franklin's 
imaginary  epitaph  on  himself. 

In  1922  I  read,  at  almost  the  same  time,  George  Santayana's 
"Preface"  to  his  selected  Poems  of  that  year  and  the  terse  note  by 
A.  E.  Housman  in  his  Last  Poems,  also  published  in  1922,  on  the 
"continuous  excitement"  in  which  he  wrote  A  Shropshire  Lad  dur- 
ing the  early  months  of  1895,  not  far  from  the  months  when  George 
Santayana  was  writing  his  Sonnets.  Most  of  the  Shropshire  lyrics 
and  many  of  the  Sonnets  I  knew  by  heart,  and  it  excited  me  to 
think  of  them  as  so  nearly  contemporary  though  there  was  an  Atlantic 
between  the  poets  when  they  wrote.  Reading  the  Santayana  "Preface" 
last  night,  I  found  myself  stirred  as  much  as  when  I  read  it  twenty 
years  ago  by  his  acute  and  beautiful  description  of  his  poems  and  of 
their  place  in  the  making  of  his  philosophy. 

When  I  encountered  John  Bainbridge's  Profile  of  Hu  Shih's 
Musketeer  in  The  New  Yorker,  I  had  not  heard  of  Daniel  Arnstein 
and  did  not  know  he  had  gone  to  organize  traffic  on  the  Burma 
Road.  Now,  though  the  Road  has  been  temporarily  lost  to  the 
enemy,  I  shall  not  forget  either  the  name  of  the  man  or  his  achieve- 
ment, and  I  should  like  as  many  people  as  possible  to  remember  how 
this  American  served  China,  where  he  will  live  in  history  as  a  hero 
to  the  nation. 

Two  days  after  Thoreau  died,  Emerson,  at  the  funeral  in  the  First 
Church  in  Concord,  delivered  a  eulogy  which  he  later  wrote  out  at 
greater  length  for  the  Atlantic.  The  two  men  had  been  close  friends 
for  years,  Thoreau  at  first  something  of  a  disciple,  later  a  living  ex- 
ample of  a  kind  of  thinker  and  doer  that  Emerson  greatly  admired. 
There  may  have  been  younger  persons  who  had  spent  more  hours 
with  Thoreau  than  Emerson  had,  but  nobody  understands  Thoreau 


INTRODUCTORY  RP2MARKS  323 

better,  and  nobody  could  explain  him  so  well.  With  the  warmth  of  a 
friend,  Emerson  united  the  strength  of  a  sage.  In  all  that  has  since 
then  been  written  about  Thoreau  this  first  account  of  him  has 
never  been  surpassed— or,  I  think,  equalled— in  penetration  or 
felicity.  It  sums  up  a  man  as  few  writers  in  any  literature  have  known 
how  to  do. 

If  stories  of  guerrilla  warfare  were  not  so  much  in  the  news,  I 
might  not  have  thought  of  William  Gilmore  Simms's  fine  ballad 
"The  Swamp  Fox,"  celebrating  the  partisan  warfare  between  the 
pro-British  Tories  and  the  pro-American  Whigs  in  South  Carolina 
during  the  Revolution,  which  in  that  state  was  a  fierce  civil  war.  The 
Swamp  Fox  was  the  name  given  to  Francis  Marion,  leader  of  the 
Whig  or  patriot  forces  when  the  state  was  over-run  with  the  enemy. 

After  Marjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings's  "The  Pelican's  Shadow,"  pub- 
lished in  The  New  Yorker,  was  reprinted  in  a  volume  of  short  stories, 
I  happened  to  speak  of  it  to  two  or  three  friends,  and  found  that 
each  of  us  had  intended  to  write  to  her  when  it  originally  appeared 
and  again  when  it  was  republished,  to  tell  her  of  our  delight  in  her 
sketch  in  caustic  of  a  complete  pedant.  None  of  us  had  done  it,  but 
I  then  did,  and  got  from  her  a  conditional  promise  to  write  other 
stories  some  day  in  the  same  manner.  She  should  be  held  to  her 
promise. 

Reading  Herman  Melville's  Mardi  during  the  First  World  War, 
and  feeling  lost  in  that  wilderness  of  allegorical  adventures,  I  came 
upon— and  still  remember  coming  upon— two  chapters,  one  called 
"Dedicated  to  the  College  of  Physicians  and  Surgeons"  and  the  other 
called  "Dreams,"  which  seemed  to  me  like  happy  islands  in  a  be- 
wildering ocean.  If  the  book  as  a  whole  is  a  gigantic  cipher, 
"Dreams"  is  Melville's  signature  candidly  exposed  in  the  narrative. 

Because  my  brother  Mark  Van  Doren  and  I  have  severely  avoided 
writing  about  each  other  for  the  public,  I  make  no  general  com- 
ment on  A  Winter  Diary,  and  say  only  that  it  is  for  me  personally 
the  most  satisfying  of  all  country  poems.  It  is  the  poetic  record 
of  an  actual  winter  he  spent  with  his  wife  and  two  young  sons  on 
their  farm  in  Connecticut. 

Though  plays  written  for  radio  production  are  only  slowly  com- 
ing to  be  thought  of  as  a  form  of  art,  I  include  Norman  Corwin's 
"Daybreak,"  which  I  heard  on  the  air  and  which  I  find  thrilling 
when  read.  Even  without  the  music  and  the  sound  effects  which  are 
so  important  a  part  of  a  radio  production,  the  mere  words  of  the 
narrative  and  dialogue  come  nearer  to  presenting  the  whole  story 
than  the  dialogue  of  a  stage  play  does.  The  reader  of  a  stage  play 


324  CARL  VAN   DOREN 

misses  the  visible  action.  A  radio  play  has  no  visible  action  to  miss. 
The  story  is  in  the  words.  I  have  chosen  "Daybreak,"  not  only  because 
it  seems  to  me  Mr.  Corwin's  best  radio  play,  but  also  because  its  vast 
panorama  displays  the  whole  earth  in  what  would  now  be  called  a 
global  vision. 

From  this  latest  kind  of  American  drama  I  turn,  again  for  con- 
trast, to  the  earliest.  Writing  my  life  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  in  1937 
I  had  to  study  the  treaty  between  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania  and 
the  Ohio  Indians,  at  Carlisle  in  1753,  to  which  Franklin  went  as  one 
of  the  Pennsylvania  commissioners  on  the  first  diplomatic  mission  of 
his  career.  At  that  time  I  had  never  read  the  text  of  any  Indian 
treaty,  and  as  I  read  this  I  could  not  believe  my  eyes.  For  it  was  an 
amazing  historical  drama  which  was  both  truth  and  literature.  All 
over  the  United  States,  I  reflected,  students  of  American  literature 
and  history  annually  read  pages  of  eighteenth-century  writing,  but 
persistently  overlook  the  great  Indian  treaties  which  are,  outside  of 
Franklin  and  some  theological  and  more  political  discourses,  the 
American  century's  masterpieces— and  more  than  that.  For  they  are 
world  masterpieces  in  the  long  record  of  relations  between  civilized 
and  savage  races. 

My  innocent  discovery  was  independent,  but  I  soon  learned  that  a 
few  collectors  already  knew  and  valued  the  written  minutes  of  these 
treaties  and  that  Lawrence  Wroth  had  been  influentially  talking  and 
writing  about  them  for  ten  years  or  so.  For  that  matter,  Franklin  as 
printer  for  Pennsylvania  had  printed  thirteen  of  the  Pennsylvania 
treaties  in  stately  pamphlets  now  rare  and  worth  many  times  their 
weight  in  gold  or  any  metal.  I  could  never  hope  to  own  one,  even 
if  I  could  find  one  for  sale.  But  there  are  ways  and  ways  of  getting 
what  you  want.  I  hinted  to  Julian  Boyd,  of  the  Historical  Society  of 
Pennsylvania,  that  the  Society  could  do  a  good  turn  to  history  and 
literature  by  reproducing  some  of  the  treaties  in  facsimile.  Within 
a  few  months  he  had  got  a  patron  in  E.  E.  Brownell,  collateral  de- 
scendant of  Franklin's  only  known  teacher,  and  had  reproduced  all 
the  Franklin  Indian  treaties  in  a  folio  about  the  splendor  of  which 
President  Roosevelt  and  H.  L.  Mencken  were— for  once— in  agree- 
ment. 

So  far,  the  Indian  treaties  have  been  read,  since  their  own  day, 
chiefly  by  the  studious  and  the  curious.  I  now  offer  one  of  them  to 
the  largest  public  it  has  ever  had  a  chance  to  have,  in  the  confidence 
that  it  will  at  last  take  the  place  it  deserves  among  the  permanent 
treasures  of  the  American  past. 

CARL    VAN    DOREN 


Thomas  Jefferson  to  Maria  Cosway 


LOVE  LETTER  OF  A  PHILOSOPHER 


Paris,  October  12,  1786 

My  Dear  Madam,— Having  performed  the  last  sad  office  of  hand- 
ing you  into  your  carriage,  at  the  pavilion  de  St.  Denis,  and  seen  the 
wheels  get  actually  into  motion,  I  turned  on  my  heel  and  walked, 
more  dead  than  alive,  to  the  opposite  door,  where  my  own  was 
awaiting  me.  Mr.  Danquerville  was  missing.  He  was  sought  for, 
found,  and  dragged  down  stairs.  We  were  crammed  into  the  car- 
riage, like  recruits  for  the  Bastile,  and  not  having  soul  enough  to 
give  orders  to  the  coachman,  he  presumed  Paris  our  destination,  and 
drove  off.  After  a  considerable  interval,  silence  was  broke,  with  a 
"Je  suis  vraiment  afflige  du  depart  de  ces  bons  gens."  This  was  a  sig- 
nal for  a  mutual  confession  of  distress.  We  began  immediately  to 
talk  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cosway,  of  their  goodness,  their  talents,  their 
amiability;  and,  though  we  spoke  of  nothing  else,  we  seemed  hardly 
to  have  entered  into  the  matter,  when  the  coachman  announced  the 
rue  St.  Denis,  and  that  we  were  opposite  Mr.  Danquerville's.  He  in- 
sisted on  descending  there,  and  traversing  a  short  passage  to  his 
lodgings.  I  was  carried  home.  Seated  by  my  fireside,  solitary  and  sad, 
the  following  dialogue  took  place  between  my  Head  and  my  Heart. 

Head.  Well,  friend,  you  seem  to  be  in  a  pretty  trim. 

Heart.  I  am  indeed  the  most  wretched  of  all  earthly  beings.  Over- 
whelmed with  grief,  every  fibre  of  my  frame  distended  beyond  its 
natural  powers  to  bear,  I  would  willingly  meet  whatever  catastrophe 
should  leave  me  no  more  to  feel,  or  to  fear. 

Head.  These  are  the  eternal  consequences  of  your  warmth  and 
precipitation.  This  is  one  of  the  scrapes  into  which  you  are  ever 
leading  us.  You  confess  your  follies,  indeed;  but  still  you  hug  and 
cherish  them;  and  no  reformation  can  be  hoped  where  there  is  no 
repentance. 

Heart.  Oh,  my  friend!  this  is  no  moment  to  upbraid  my  foibles. 
I  am  rent  into  fragments  by  the  force  of  my  grief!  If  you  have  any 

325 


326  THOMAS  JEFFERSON 

balm,  pour  it  into  my  wounds;  if  none,  do  not  harrow  them  by  new 
torments.  Spare  me  in  this  awful  moment!  At  any  other,  I  will  at- 
tend with  patience  to  your  admonitions. 

Head.  On  the  contrary,  I  never  found  that  the  moment  of  tri- 
umph, with  you,  was  the  moment  of  attention  to  my  admonitions. 
While  suffering  under  your  follies,  you  may  perhaps  be  made  sen- 
sible of  them,  but  the  paroxysm  over,  you  fancy  it  can  never  return. 
Harsh,  therefore,  as  the  medicine  may  be,  it  is  my  office  to  admin- 
ister it.  You  will  be  pleased  to  remember,  that  when  our  friend 
Trumbull  used  to  be  telling  us  of  the  merits  and  talents  of  these 
good  people,  I  never  ceased  whispering  to  you  that  we  had  no  occa- 
sion for  new  acquaintances;  that  the  greater  their  merits  and  talents, 
the  more  dangerous  their  friendship  to  our  tranquillity,  because  the 
regret  at  parting  would  be  greater. 

Heart.  Accordingly,  Sir,  this  acquaintance  was  not  the  consequence 
of  my  doings.  It  was  one  of  your  projects,  which  threw  us  in  the  way 
of  it.  It  was  you,  remember,  and  not  I,  who  desired  the  meeting  at 
Legrand  and  Motinos.  I  never  trouble  myself  with  domes  nor  arches. 
The  Halle  aux  Bleds  might  have  rotted  down,  before  I  should  have 
gone  to  see  it.  But  you,  forsooth,  who  are  eternally  getting  us  to  sleep 
with  your  diagrams  and  crotchets,  must  go  and  examine  this  won- 
derful piece  of  architecture;  and  when  you  had  seen  it,  oh!  it  was  the 
most  superb  thing  on  earth!  What  you  had  seen  there  was  worth  all 
you  had  yet  seen  in  Paris!  I  thought  so,  too.  But  I  meant  it  of  the 
lady  and  gentleman  to  whom  we  had  been  presented;  and  not  of  a 
parcel  of  sticks  and  chips  put  together  in  pens.  You,  then,  Sir,  and 
not  I,  have  been  the  cause  of  the  present  distress. 

Head.  It  would  have  been  happy  for  you  if  my  diagrams  and 
crotchets  had  gotten  you  to  sleep  on  that  day,  as  you  are  pleased  to 
say  they  eternally  do.  My  visit  to  Legrand  and  Motinos  had  public 
utility  for  its  object.  A  market  is  to  be  built  in  Richmond.  What  a 
commodious  plan  is  that  of  Legrand  and  Motinos;  especially,  if  we 
put  on  it  the  noble  dome  of  the  Halle  aux  Bleds.  If  such  a  bridge  as 
they  showed  us  can  be  thrown  across  the  Schuylkill,  at  Philadelphia, 
the  floating  bridges  taken  up,  and  the  navigation  of  that  river 
opened,  what  a  copious  resource  will  be  added,  of  wood  and  provi- 
sions, to  warm  and  feed  the  poor  of  that  city?  While  I  was  occupied 
with  these  objects,  you  were  dilating  with  your  new  acquaintances, 
and  contriving  how  to  prevent  a  separation  from  them.  Every  soul 
of  you  had  an  engagement  for  the  day.  Yet  all  these  were  to  be  sacri- 
ficed, that  you  might  dine  together.  Lying  messengers  were  to  be 
despatched  into  every  quarter  of  the  city,  with  apologies  for  your 


LOVE  LETTER  OF  A  PHILOSOPHER        327 

breach  of  engagement.  You,  particularly,  had  the  effrontery  to  send 
word  to  the  Duchess  Danville,  that  on  the  moment  we  were  setting 
out  to  dine  with  her,  despatches  came  to  hand,  which  required  im- 
mediate attention.  You  wanted  me  to  invent  a  more  ingenious  ex- 
cuse; but  I  knew  you  were  getting  into  a  scrape,  and  I  would  have 
nothing  to  do  with  it.  Well;  after  dinner  to  St.  Cloud,  from  St.  Cloud 
to  Ruggieri's,  from  Ruggieri's  to  Krumfoltz;  and  if  the  day  had  been 
as  long  as  a  Lapland  summer  day,  you  would  still  have  contrived 
means  among  you  to  have  filled  it. 

Heart.  Oh!  my  dear  friend,  how  you  have  revived  me  by  recalling 
to  my  mind  the  transactions  of  that  day!  How  well  I  remember  them 
all,  and  that,  when  I  came  home  at  night,  and  looked  back  to  the 
morning,  it  seemed  to  have  been  a  month  agone.  Go  on,  then,  like 
a  kind  comforter,  and  paint  to  me  the  day  we  went  to  St.  Germains. 
How  beautiful  was  every  object!  the  Port  de  Reuilly,  the  hills  along 
the  Seine,  the  rainbows  of  the  machine  of  Marly,  the  terrace  of  St. 
Germains,  the  chateaux,  the  gardens,  the  statues  of  Marly,  the  pa- 
vilion of  Lucienne.  Recollect,  too,  Madrid,  Bagatelle,  the  King's 
garden,  the  Dessert.  How  grand  the  idea  excited  by  the  remains  of 
such  a  column.  The  spiral  staircase,  too,  was  beautiful.  Every  mo- 
ment was  filled  with  something  agreeable.  The  wheels  of  time  moved 
on  with  a  rapidity,  of  which  those  of  our  carriage  gave  but  a  faint 
idea.  And  yet,  in  the  evening,  when  one  took  a  retrospect  of  the  day, 
what  a  mass  of  happiness  had  we  travelled  over!  Retrace  all  those 
scenes  to  me,  my  good  companion,  and  I  will  forgive  the  unkindness 
with  which  you  were  chiding  me.  The  day  we  went  to  St.  Germains 
was  a  little  too  warm,  I  think;  was  it  not? 

Head.  Thou  art  the  most  incorrigible  of  all  the  beings  that  ever 
sinned!  I  reminded  you  of  the  follies  of  the  first  day,  intending  to 
deduce  from  thence  some  useful  lessons  for  you;  but  instead  of  lis- 
tening to  them,  you  kindle  at  the  recollection,  you  retrace  the  whole 
series  with  a  fondness,  which  shows  you  want  nothing,  but  the  op- 
portunity, to  act  it  over  again.  I  often  told  you,  during  its  course, 
that  you  were  imprudently  engaging  your  affections,  under  circum- 
stances that  must  have  cost  you  a  great  deal  of  pain;  that  the  persons, 
indeed,  were  of  the  greatest  merit,  possessing  good  sense,  good  hu- 
mor, honest  hearts,  honest  manners,  and  eminence  in  a  lovely  art; 
that  the  lady  had,  moreover,  qualities  and  accomplishments  belong- 
ing to  her  sex,  which  might  form  a  chapter  apart  for  her;  such  as 
music,  modesty,  beauty,  and  that  softness  of  disposition,  which  is  the 
ornament  of  her  sex  and  charm  of  ours;  but  that  all  these  considera- 
tions would  increase  the  pang  of  separation;  that  their  stay  here  was 


328  THOMAS  JEFFERSON 

to  be  short;  that  you  rack  our  whole  system  when  you  are  parted 
from  those  you  love,  complaining  that  such  a  separation  is  worse 
than  death,  inasmuch  as  this  ends  our  sufferings,  whereas  that  only 
begins  them;  and  that  the  separation  would,  in  this  instance,  be  the 
more  severe,  as  you  would  probably  never  see  them  again. 

Heart.  But  they  told  me  they  would  come  back  again,  the  next 
year. 

Head.  But,  in  the  meantime,  see  what  you  suffer;  and  their  return, 
too,  depends  on  so  many  circumstances,  that  if  you  had  a  grain  of 
prudence,  you  would  not  count  upon  it.  Upon  the  whole,  it  is  im- 
probable, and  therefore  you  should  abandon  the  idea  of  ever  seeing 
them  again. 

Heart.  May  heaven  abandon  me  if  I  do! 

Head.  Very  well.  Suppose,  then,  they  come  back.  They  are  to  stay 
two  months,  and,  when  these  are  expired,  what  is  to  follow?  Perhaps 
you  flatter  yourself  they  may  come  to  America? 

Heart.  God  only  knows  what  is  to  happen.  I  see  nothing  impos- 
sible in  that  supposition;  and  I  see  things  wonderfully  contrived 
sometimes,  to  make  us  happy.  Where  could  they  find  such  objects  as 
in  America,  for  the  exercise  of  their  enchanting  art?  especially  the 
lady,  who  paints  landscapes  so  inimitably.  She  wants  only  subjects 
worthy  of  immortality,  to  render  her  pencil  immortal.  The  Falling 
Spring,  the  Cascade  of  Niagara,  the  passage  of  the  Potomac  through 
the  Blue  Mountains,  the  Natural  Bridge;  it  is  worth  a  voyage  across 
the  Atlantic  to  see  these  objects;  much  more  to  paint,  and  make 
them,  and  thereby  ourselves,  known  to  all  ages.  And  our  own  dear 
Monticello;  where  has  nature  spread  so  rich  a  mantle  under  the  eye? 
mountains,  forests,  rocks,  rivers.  With  what  majesty  do  we  there  ride 
above  the  storms!  How  sublime  to  look  down  into  the  workhouse  of 
nature,  to  see  her  clouds,  hail,  snow,  rain,  thunder,  all  fabricated  at 
our  feet!  and  the  glorious  sun,  when  rising  as  if  out  of  a  distant 
water,  just  gilding  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  giving  life  to  all 
nature!  I  hope  in  God,  no  circumstance  may  ever  make  either  seek 
an  asylum  from  grief!  With  what  sincere  sympathy  I  would  open 
every  cell  of  my  composition,  to  receive  the  effusion  of  their  woes! 
I  would  pour  my  tears  into  their  wounds;  and  if  a  drop  of  balm 
could  be  found  on  the  top  of  the  Cordilleras,  or  at  the  remotest 
sources  of  the  Missouri,  I  would  go  thither  myself  to  seek  and  to 
bring  it.  Deeply  practised  in  the  school  of  affliction,  the  human  heart 
knows  no  joy  which  I  have  not  lost,  no  sorrow  of  which  I  have  not 
drunk!  Fortune  can  present  no  grief  of  unknown  form  to  me!  Who, 
then,  can  so  softly  bind  up  the  wound  of  another,  as  he  who  has  felt 


LOVE  LETTER  OF  A  PHILOSOPHER        329 

the  same  wound  himself?  But  heaven  forbid  they  should  ever  know 
a  sorrowl  Let  us  turn  over  another  leaf,  for  this  has  distracted  me. 

Head.  Well.  Let  us  put  this  possibility  to  trial  then,  on  another 
point.  When  you  consider  the  character  which  is  given  of  our  coun- 
try, by  the  lying  newspapers  of  London,  and  their  credulous  copiers 
in  other  countries;  when  you  reflect  that  all  Europe  is  made  to  be- 
lieve we  are  a  lawless  banditti,  in  a  state  of  absolute  anarchy,  cutting 
one  another's  throats,  and  plundering  without  distinction,  how  could 
you  expect  that  any  reasonable  creature  would  venture  among  us? 

Heart.  But  you  and  I  know  that  all  this  is  false:  that  there  is  not  a 
country  on  earth,  where  there  is  greater  tranquillity;  where  the  laws 
are  milder,  or  better  obeyed;  where  every  one  is  more  attentive  to 
his  own  business,  or  meddles  less  with  that  of  others;  where  strangers 
are  better  received,  more  hospitably  treated,  and  with  a  more  sacred 
respect. 

Head.  True,  you  and  I  know  this,  but  your  friends  do  not  know  it. 

Heart.  But  they  are  sensible  people,  who  think  for  themselves. 
They  will  ask  of  impartial  foreigners,  who  have  been  among  us, 
whether  they  saw  or  heard  on  the  spot,  any  instance  of  anarchy.  They 
will  judge,  too,  that  a  people,  occupied  as  we  are,  in  opening  rivers, 
digging  navigable  canals,  making  roads,  building  public  schools,  es- 
tablishing academies,  erecting  busts  and  statues  to  our  great  men, 
protecting  religious  freedom,  abolishing  sanguinary  punishments,  re- 
forming and  improving  our  laws  in  general;  they  will  judge,  I  say, 
for  themselves,  whether  these  are  not  the  occupations  of  a  people  at 
their  ease;  whether  this  is  not  better  evidence  of  our  true  state,  than 
a  London  newspaper,  hired  to  lie,  and  from  which  no  truth  can  ever 
be  extracted  but  by  reversing  everything  it  says. 

Head.  I  did  not  begin  this  lecture,  my  friend,  with  a  view  to  learn 
from  you  what  America  is  doing.  Let  us  return,  then,  to  our  point. 
I  wish  to  make  you  sensible  how  imprudent  it  is  to  place  your  affec- 
tions, without  reserve,  on  objects  you  must  so  soon  lose,  and  whose 
loss,  when  it  comes,  must  cost  you  such  severe  pangs.  Remember  the 
last  night.  You  knew  your  friends  were  to  leave  Paris  to-day.  This 
was  enough  to  throw  you  into  agonies.  All  night  you  tossed  us  from 
one  side  of  the  bed  to  the  other;  no  sleep,  no  rest.  The  poor  crippled 
wrist,  too,  never  left  one  moment  in  the  same  position;  now  up,  now 
down,  now  here,  now  there;  was  it  to  be  wondered  at,  if  its  pains  re- 
turned? The  surgeon  then  was  to  be  called,  and  to  be  rated  as  an 
ignoramus,  because  he  could  not  divine  the  cause  of  this  extraordi- 
nary change.  In  fine,  my  friend,  you  must  mend  your  manners.  This 
is  not  a  world  to  live  at  random  in,  as  you  do.  To  avoid  those  eternal 


330  THOMAS  JEFFERSON 

distresses,  to  which  you  are  forever  exposing  us,  you  must  learn  to 
look  forward,  before  you  take  a  step  which  may  interest  our  peace. 
Everything  in  this  world  is  matter  of  calculation.  Advance  then  with 
caution,  the  balance  in  your  hand.  Put  into  one  scale  the  pleasures 
which  any  object  may  offer;  but  put  fairly  into  the  other,  the  pains 
which  are  to  follow,  and  see  which  preponderates.  The  making  an 
acquaintance,  is  not  a  matter  of  indifference.  When  a  new  one  is  pro- 
posed to  you,  view  it  all  round.  Consider  what  advantages  it  presents, 
and  to  what  inconveniences  it  may  expose  you.  Do  not  bite  at  the 
bait  of  pleasure,  till  you  know  there  is  no  hook  beneath  it.  The  art  of 
life  is  the  art  of  avoiding  pain;  and  he  is  the  best  pilot,  who  steers 
clearest  of  the  rocks  and  shoals  with  which  it  is  beset.  Pleasure  is 
always  before  us;  but  misfortune  is  at  our  side:  while  running  after 
that,  this  arrests  us.  The  most  effectual  means  of  being  secure  against 
pain,  is  to  retire  within  ourselves,  and  to  suffice  for  our  own  happi- 
ness. Those  which  depend  on  ourselves,  are  the  only  pleasures  a  wise 
man  will  count  on:  for  nothing  is  ours,  which  another  may  deprive 
us  of.  Hence  the  inestimable  value  of  intellectual  pleasures.  Ever  in 
our  power,  always  leading  us  to  something  new,  never  cloying,  we 
ride  serene  and  sublime  above  the  concerns  of  this  mortal  world,  con- 
templating truth  and  nature,  matter  and  motion,  the  laws  which 
bind  up  their  existence,  and  that  Eternal  Being  who  made  and 
bound  them  up  by  those  laws.  Let  this  be  our  employ.  Leave  the 
bustle  and  tumult  of  society  to  those  who  have  not  talents  to  occupy 
themselves  without  them.  Friendship  is  but  another  name  for  an  alli- 
ance with  the  follies  and  the  misfortunes  of  others.  Our  own  share  of 
miseries  is  sufficient:  why  enter  then  as  volunteers  into  those  of  an- 
other? Is  there  so  little  gall  poured  into  our  cup,  that  we  must  need 
help  to  drink  that  of  our  neighbor?  A  friend  dies,  or  leaves  us:  we 
feel  as  if  a  limb  was  cut  off.  He  is  sick:  we  must  watch  over  him,  and 
participate  of  his  pains.  His  fortune  is  shipwrecked:  ours  must  be 
laid  under  contribution.  He  loses  a  child,  a  parent,  or  a  partner:  we 
must  mourn  the  loss  as  if  it  were  our  own. 

Heart.  And  what  more  sublime  delight  than  to  mingle  tears  with 
one  whom  the  hand  of  heaven  hath  smitten!  to  watch  over  the  bed  of 
sickness,  and  to  beguile  its  tedious  and  its  painful  moments!  to  share 
our  bread  with  one  to  whom  misfortune  has  left  none!  This  world 
abounds  indeed  with  misery;  to  lighten  its  burthen,  we  must  divide 
it  with  one  another.  But  let  us  now  try  the  virtue  of  your  mathemati- 
cal balance,  and  as  you  have  put  into  one  scale  the  burthens  of  friend- 
ship, let  me  put  its  comforts  into  the  other.  When  languishing  then 
under  disease,  how  grateful  is  the  solace  of  our  friends!  how  are  we 


LOVE  LETTER  OF  A  PHILOSOPHER        331 

penetrated  with  their  assiduities  and  attentions!  how  much  are  we 
supported  by  their  encouragements  and  kind  offices!  When  heaven 
has  taken  from  us  some  object  of  our  love,  how  sweet  is  it  to  have  a 
bosom  whereon  to  recline  our  heads,  and  into  which  we  may  pour 
the  torrent  of  our  tears!  Grief,  with  such  a  comfort,  is  almost  a  lux- 
ury! In  a  life,  where  we  are  perpetually  exposed  to  want  and  acci- 
dent, yours  is  a  wonderful  proposition,  to  insulate  ourselves,  to  retire 
from  all  aid,  and  to  wrap  ourselves  in  the  mantle  of  self-sufficiency! 
For,  assuredly,  nobody  will  care  for  him  who  cares  for  nobody.  But 
friendship  is  precious,  not  only  in  the  shade,  but  in  the  sunshine  of 
life;  and  thanks  to  a  benevolent  arrangement  of  things,  the  greater 
part  of  life  is  sunshine.  I  will  recur  for  proof  to  the  days  we  have 
lately  passed.  On  these,  indeed,  the  sun  shone  brightly.  How  gay  did 
the  face  of  nature  appear!  Hills,  valleys,  chateaux,  gardens,  rivers, 
every  object  wore  its  liveliest  hue!  Whence  did  they  borrow  it?  From 
the  presence  of  our  charming  companion.  They  were  pleasing,  be- 
cause she  seemed  pleased.  Alone,  the  scene  would  have  been  dull  and 
insipid:  the  participation  of  it  with  her  gave  it  relish.  Let  the  gloomy 
monk,  sequestered  from  the  world,  seek  unsocial  pleasures  in  the 
bottom  of  his  cell!  Let  the  sublimated  philosopher  grasp  visionary 
happiness,  while  pursuing  phantoms  dressed  in  the  garb  of  truth! 
Their  supreme  wisdom  is  supreme  folly;  and  they  mistake  for  happi- 
ness the  mere  absence  of  pain.  Had  they  ever  felt  the  solid  pleasure 
of  one  generous  spasm  of  the  heart,  they  would  exchange  for  it  all  the 
frigid  speculations  of  their  lives,  which  you  have  been  vaunting  in 
such  elevated  terms.  Believe  me,  then,  my  friend,  that  that  is  a  miser- 
able arithmetic  which  could  estimate  friendship  at  nothing,  or  at  less 
than  nothing.  Respect  for  you  has  induced  me  to  enter  into  this  dis- 
cussion, and  to  hear  principles  uttered  which  I  detest  and  abjure. 
Respect  for  myself  now  obliges  me  to  recall  you  into  the  proper  lim- 
its of  your  office.  When  nature  assigned  us  the  same  habitation,  she 
gave  us  over  it  a  divided  empire.  To  you,  she  allotted  the  field  of  sci- 
ence; to  me,  that  of  morals.  When  the  circle  is  to  be  squared,  or  the 
orbit  of  a  comet  to  be  traced;  when  the  arch  of  greatest  strength,  or 
the  solid  of  least  resistance,  is  to  be  investigated,  take  up  the  prob- 
lem; it  is  yours;  nature  has  given  me  no  cognizance  of  it.  In  like 
manner,  in  denying  to  you  the  feelings  of  sympathy,  of  benevolence, 
of  gratitude,  of  justice,  of  love,  of  friendship,  she  has  excluded  you 
from  their  control.  To  these,  she  has  adapted  the  mechanism  of  the 
heart.  Morals  were  too  essential  to  the  happiness  of  man,  to  be  risked 
on  the  uncertain  combinations  of  the  head.  She  laid  their  founda- 
tion, therefore,  in  sentiment,  not  in  science.  That  she  gave  to  all,  as 


332  THOMAS  JEFFERSON 

necessary  to  all;  this  to  a  few  only,  as  sufficing  with  a  few.  I  know, 
indeed,  that  you  pretend  authority  to  the  sovereign  control  of  our 
conduct,  in  all  its  parts;  and  a  respect  for  your  grave  saws  and  max- 
ims, a  desire  to  do  what  is  right,  has  sometimes  induced  me  to  con- 
form to  your  counsels.  A  few  facts,  however,  which  I  can  readily 
recall  to  your  memory,  will  suffice  to  prove  to  you,  that  nature  has 
not  organized  you  for  our  moral  direction.  When  the  poor,  wearied 
soldier  whom  we  overtook  at  Chickahominy,  with  his  pack  on  his 
back,  begged  us  to  let  him  get  up  behind  our  chariot,  you  began  to 
calculate  that  the  road  was  full  of  soldiers,  and  that  if  all  should  be 
taken  up,  our  horses  would  fail  in  their  journey.  We  drove  on  there- 
fore. But,  soon  becoming  sensible  you  had  made  me  do  wrong,  that, 
though  we  cannot  relieve  all  the  distressed,  we  should  relieve  as  many 
as  we  can,  I  turned  about  to  take  up  the  soldier;  but  he  had  entered 
a  bye-path,  and  was  no  more  to  be  found;  and  from  that  moment  to 
this,  I  could  never  find  him  out,  to  ask  his  forgiveness.  Again,  when 
the  poor  woman  came  to  ask  a  charity  in  Philadelphia,  you  whis- 
pered that  she  looked  like  a  drunkard,  and  that  half  a  dollar  was 
enough  to  give  her  for  the  ale-house.  Those  who  want  the  disposi- 
tions to  give,  easily  find  reasons  why  they  ought  not  to  give.  When 
I  sought  her  out  afterwards,  and  did  what  I  should  have  done  at  first, 
you  know  that  she  employed  the  money  immediately  towards  plac- 
ing her  child  at  school.  If  our  country,  when  pressed  with  wrongs  at 
the  point  of  the  bayonet,  had  been  governed  by  its  heads  instead  of 
its  hearts,  where  should  we  have  been  now?  Hanging  on  a  gallows  as 
high  as  Haman's.  You  began  to  calculate,  and  to  compare  wealth  and 
numbers:  we  threw  up  a  few  pulsations  of  our  blood;  we  supplied 
enthusiasm  against  wealth  and  numbers;  we  put  our  existence  to  the 
hazard,  when  the  hazard  seemed  against  us,  and  we  saved  our  coun- 
try: justifying,  at  the  same  time,  the  ways  of  Providence,  whose  pre- 
cept is,  to  do  always  what  is  right,  and  leave  the  issue  to  Him.  In 
short,  my  friend,  as  far  as  my  recollection  serves  me,  I  do  not  know 
that  I  ever  did  a  good  thing  on  your  suggestion,  or  a  dirty  one  with- 
out it.  I  do  forever,  then,  disclaim  your  interference  in  my  province. 
Fill  paper  as  you  please  with  triangles  and  squares:  try  how  many 
ways  you  can  hang  and  combine  them  together.  I  shall  never  envy 
nor  control  your  sublime  delights.  But  leave  me  to  decide,  when  and 
where  friendships  are  to  be  contracted.  You  say,  I  contract  them  at 
random.  So  you  said  the  woman  at  Philadelphia  was  a  drunkard.  I 
receive  none  into  my  esteem,  till  I  know  they  are  worthy  of  it. 
Wealth,  title,  office,  are  no  recommendations  to  my  friendship.  On 


LOVE  LETTER  OF  A  PHILOSOPHER        333 

the  contrary,  great  good  qualities  are  requisite  to  make  amends  for 
their  having  wealth,  title,  and  office.  You  confess,  that,  in  the  present 
case,  I  could  not  have  made  a  worthier  choice.  You  only  object,  that 
I  was  so  soon  to  lose  them.  We  are  not  immortal  ourselves,  my 
friend;  how  can  we  expect  our  enjoyments  to  be  so?  We  have  no 
rose  without  its  thorn;  no  pleasure  without  alloy.  It  is  the  law  of  our 
existence;  and  we  must  acquiesce.  It  is  the  condition  annexed  to  all 
our  pleasures,  not  by  us  who  receive,  but  by  him  who  gives  them. 
True,  this  condition  is  pressing  cruelly  on  me  at  this  moment.  I  feel 
more  fit  for  death  than  life.  But,  when  I  look  back  on  the  pleasures 
of  which  it  is  the  consequence,  I  am  conscious  they  were  worth  the 
price  I  am  paying.  Notwithstanding  your  endeavors,  too,  to  damp 
my  hopes,  I  comfort  myself  with  expectations  of  their  promised  re- 
turn. Hope  is  sweeter  than  despair;  and  they  were  too  good  to  mean 
to  deceive  me.  "In  the  summer,"  said  the  gentleman;  but  "in  the 
spring,"  said  the  lady;  and  I  should  love  her  forever,  were  it  only  for 
that!  Know,  then,  my  friend,  that  I  have  taken  these  good  people 
into  my  bosom;  that  I  have  lodged  them  in  the  warmest  cell  I  could 
find;  that  I  love  them,  and  will  continue  to  love  them  through  life; 
that  if  fortune  should  dispose  them  on  one  side  the  globe,  and  me 
on  the  other,  my  affections  shall  pervade  its  whole  mass  to  reach 
them.  Knowing  then  my  determination,  attempt  not  to  disturb  it. 
If  you  can,  at  any  time,  furnish  matter  for  their  amusement,  it  will 
be  the  office  of  a  good  neighbor  to  do  it.  I  will,  in  like  manner,  seize 
any  occasion  which  may  offer,  to  do  the  like  good  turn  for  you  with 
Condorcet,  Rittenhouse,  Madison,  La  Cretelle,  or  any  other  of  those 
worthy  sons  of  science,  whom  you  so  justly  prize. 

I  thought  this  a  favorable  proposition  whereon  to  rest  the  issue 
of  the  dialogue.  So  I  put  an  end  to  it  by  calling  for  my  nightcap. 
Methinks,  I  hear  you  wish  to  heaven  I  had  called  a  little  sooner,  and 
so  spared  you  the  ennui  of  such  a  sermon.  I  did  not  interrupt  them 
sooner,  because  I  was  in  a  mood  for  hearing  sermons.  You  too  were 
the  subject;  and  on  such  a  thesis,  I  never  think  the  theme  long;  not 
even  if  I  am  to  write  it,  and  that  slowly  and  awkwardly,  as  now,  with 
the  left  hand.  But,  that  you  may  not  be  discouraged  from  a  corre- 
spondence which  begins  so  formidably,  I  will  promise  you,  on  my 
honor,  that  my  future  letters  shall  be  of  a  reasonable  length.  I  will 
even  agree  to  express  but  half  my  esteem  for  you,  for  fear  of  cloying 
you  with  too  full  a  dose.  But,  on  your  part,  no  curtailing.  If  your  let- 
ters are  as  long  as  the  Bible,  they  will  appear  short  to  me.  Only  let 
them  be  brimful  of  affection.  I  shall  read  them  with  the  dispositions 


334  THOMAS  JEFFERSON 

with  which  Arlequin,  in  Les  deux  billets,  spelt  the  words  "je  t'aime," 
and  wished  that  the  whole  alphabet  had  entered  into  their  compo- 
sition. 

We  have  had  incessant  rains  since  your  departure.  These  make  me 
fear  for  your  health,  as  well  as  that  you  had  an  uncomfortable  jour- 
ney. The  same  cause  has  prevented  me  from  being  able  to  give  you 
any  account  of  your  friends  here.  This  voyage  to  Fontainebleau  will 
probably  send  the  Count  de  Moutier  and  the  Marquis  de  Brehan,  to 
America.  Danquerville  promised  to  visit  me,  but  has  not  done  it  as 
yet.  De  la  Tude  comes  sometimes  to  take  family  soup  with  me,  and 
entertains  me  with  anecdotes  of  his  five  and  thirty  years'  imprison- 
ment. How  fertile  is  the  mind  of  man,  which  can  make  the  Bastile 
and  dungeon  of  Vincennes  yield  interesting  anecdotes!  You  know 
this  was  for  making  four  verses  on  Madame  de  Pompadour.  But  I 
think  you  told  me  you  did  not  know  the  verses.  They  were  these: 
"Sans  esprit,  sans  sentiment,  Sans  etre  belle,  ni  neuve,  En  France  on 
pent  avoir  le  premier  amant:  Pompadour  en  est  Vepreuve."  I  have 
read  the  memoir  of  his  three  escapes.  As  to  myself,  my  health  is  good, 
except  my  wrist  which  mends  slowly,  and  my  mind  which  mends  not 
at  all,  but  broods  constantly  over  your  departure.  The  lateness  of  the 
season  obliges  me  to  decline  my  journey  into  the  south  of  France. 
Present  me  in  the  most  friendly  terms  to  Mr.  Cosway,  and  receive 
me  into  your  own  recollection  with  a  partiality  and  warmth,  propor- 
tioned not  to  my  own  poor  merit,  but  to  the  sentiments  of  sincere 
affection  and  esteem,  with  which  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  my  dear 
Madam,  your  most  obedient  humble  servant. 


The  Fable  of  the  Foozle  &  The 
Successful  Approach 

BY  GEORGE  ADE 


Every  year  a  lot  of  Americans  went  over  to  London  to  rub  up 
against  the  Aristocracy,  if  possible.  One  year  two  Men  went 
over.  They  intended  to  hang  around  and  look  Wistful  until  the  No- 
bility and  Landed  Gentry  would  take  some  Notice  of  them. 

Each  had  a  Scheme  for  securing  Recognition. 

The  first  chased  himself  to  Regent  Street  and  bought  an  entire 
Outfit  of  British  Clothes.  He  began  to  use  the  sound  of  A  as  in  Fa- 
ther and  say  Mean  Things  about  the  Boers.  He  held  his  Hat  in  his 
Hand  whenever  he  approached  a  Title.  He  went  out  of  his  Way  to 
run  down  the  vulgar  Americans.  Consequently  he  was  walked  upon 
and  despised  as  a  Toady. 

The  other  Man  allowed  his  Hair  to  grow  down  over  his  Collar. 
He  wore  a  Buck  Taylor  Hat  with  a  Leather  Strap  around  it  and  kept 
it  at  an  Angle  of  45  degrees.  He  refused  the  B.  and  S.  and  demanded 
Cocktails.  When  he  met  an  Englishman  he  called  him  Pard  and  held 
out  his  Flipper  and  said  he'd  be  catawampously  Jiggered  if  he  wasn't 
all-fired  Proud  to  meet  him.  He  plucked  the  Tail  Feathers  from  the 
gullorious  Bird  of  Freedom  and  waved  them  defiantly  at  the  Lion 
and  the  Unicorn.  He  said  that  the  British  Isles  were  merely  a  Break- 
water for  the  Continent  and  wouldn't  make  a  Patch  on  the  Land  of 
Liberty. 

He  was  invited  to  all  the  Drawing-Rooms  because  it  was  a  Pleasure 
to  meet  such  a  breezy  and  Typical  American. 

moral:  When  you  are  in  Rome  do  as  the  Romans  expect  you  to  do. 


335 


The  Death  of  Arrowsmith 

An  auto-obituary 
BY  SINCLAIR  LEWIS 


Sinclair  Lewis,  who  died  peacefully  in  his  sleep  yesterday  after- 
noon, at  his  small  country-place  in  northwestern  Connecticut, 
has,  at  the  age  of  eighty-six,  been  rather  generally  forgotten.  For  the 
past  ten  or  fifteen  years  he  has  indulged  in  so  secluded  a  life,  devot- 
ing himself,  apparently,  only  to  his  cats,  his  gardens,  and  brief  essays 
on  such  little-read  novelists  as  Mark  Twain,  that  to  many  persons  it 
may  have  been  a  surprise  to  find  that  he  was  still  living.  Yet  at  one 
time  he  was  a  figure  of  considerable  notoriety,  because  of  his  jeering 
yet  essentially  kindly  shafts  at  the  pomposity  and  inefficiency  of  con- 
temporary politicians  and  industrialists. 

Although  now  they  are  almost  unread,  a  few  of  his  novels,  par- 
ticularly Main  Street,  Arrowsmith,  Babbitt,  Elmer  Gantry,  and  the 
ponderous  four-volume  chronicle  of  an  American  family,  The  Tin- 
tayres,  which  Mr.  Lewis  began  in  1944  and  completed  in  1950,  are 
familiar  to  all  sociologists  and  literary  historians  for  their  picture  of 
the  priggish  and  naive  first  half  of  this  century.  That  this  picture  was 
well  rounded  or  unprejudiced,  no  one  will  maintain. 

Mr.  Lewis  seems  essentially  to  have  been  a  cheerful  pathologist, 
exposing  the  cliches  and  sentimentalities  of  his  day— the  hearty  false- 
ness of  senators  and  what  were  once  known  as  "business  boosters," 
the  smirking  attitudes  toward  women  in  his  times,  the  personal  am- 
bitiousness  of  the  clergy,  the  artists,  and  the  professional  men,  and 
the  brazen  mawkishness  of  patriotism. 

To  the  discerning  reader  of  later  years,  it  is  evident  that  Mr.  Lewis 
smote— or  tried  to  smite— sentimentality  because  he  knew  himself  to 
be,  at  heart,  a  sentimentalist  to  whom  green  hills  and  barricade- 
jumping  soldiers  and  smiling  girls  and  winter  storms  were  as  child- 
ishly exciting  as  they  were  to  any  popular  female  novelist.  It  also  was 
evident  that  he  mocked  the  cruder  manifestations  of  Yankee  impe- 

336 


THE  DEATH  OF  ARROWSMITH  337 

rialism  because  he  was,  at  heart,  a  fanatic  American,  who  never  really 
liked  the  condescensions  of  the  English  people  among  whom  he 
often  lived— including  two  solid  years  in  Derbyshire  in  1951-52. 

The  "style"  of  Mr.  Lewis'  rather  long-winded  pictures  of  Ameri- 
cana seems,  on  recent  study,  to  indicate  a  descent  from  extraordi- 
narily discrepant  literary  ancestors.  From  a  perusal  of  his  books, 
together  with  his  own  admissions,  one  may  find  him  astonishingly 
deriving  from  both  Dickens  and  Swinburne,  H.  G.  Wells  and  A.  E. 
Housman,  Thomas  Hardy  and  H.  L.  Mencken  and  Hamlin  Gar- 
land. On  the  other  hand,  he  seems  to  have  left  no  literary  descend- 
ants. Unlike  his  celebrated  contemporaries,  Theodore  Dreiser  (1871- 
1952)  and  Colonel  Ernest  Hemingway,  who  was  so  dramatically 
killed  while  leading  his  mixed  Filipino  and  Chinese  troops  in  the 
storming  of  Tokio  in  1949,  Mr.  Lewis  seems  to  have  affected  but  lit- 
tle the  work  of  younger  writers  of  fiction.  Whether  this  is  a  basic 
criticism  of  his  pretensions  to  power  and  originality,  or  whether,  like 
another  contemporary,  Miss  Willa  Gather,  he  was  an  inevitably  lone 
and  insulated  figure,  we  have  not  as  yet  the  perspective  to  see. 

For  a  good  many  years,  Mr.  Lewis  was  an  extensive  and,  it  would 
almost  seem,  a  foolishly  experimental  wanderer.  He  began  his  work 
with  years  on  newspapers  and  in  magazine  and  publishing  offices; 
he  traveled  through  every  state  in  the  union;  he  knew  most  of  Eu- 
rope and,  after  the  end  of  World  War  II,  in  1944,  most  of  Asia.  He 
even— possibly  in  unconscious  imitation  of  his  idol,  Dickens— dab- 
bled with  acting,  over  three  or  four  years,  appearing  in  various  pro- 
fessional companies,  with  no  especial  credit  or  discredit  either. 

But  on  his  return  from  England  in  1952,  he  settled  immovably  in 
the  rural  Connecticut  to  which  he  had  many  ties.  Though  Mr.  Lewis 
himself  was  born  (in  1885)  in  a  Minnesota  prairie  hamlet,  where  his 
father  was  a  typical  country  physician,  that  father  and  his  ancestors 
for  eight  or  nine  generations  were  born  in  Connecticut,  along  the 
Housatonic  River,  near  which  Mr.  Lewis  himself  has  lived  these  past 
twenty  years.  He  attended  Yale,  and  did  his  first  newspaper  work  on 
the  New  Haven  Journal  and  Courier.  It  was  natural  then  that  he 
should  have  settled  in  Connecticut,  being  weary  of  travel  and  of 
what  he  himself  once  called  (in  his  brief  travel  book,  Tea  for  One- 
and-one-half,  Random  House,  1945),  "the  chronic  wanderer's  discov- 
ery that  he  is  everywhere  such  an  Outsider  that  no  one  will  listen  to 
him  even  when  he  kicks  about  the  taxes  and  the  beer." 

Lewis  was  tall,  lean,  awkward,  with  a  rough  complexion  and,  in 
his  later  years,  a  skull  completely  bald,  save  for  a  fringe  of  still  rusty 


338  SINCLAIR  LEWIS 

hair.  Had  he  sported  a  tousled  wig  and  a  chin  whisker,  he  would 
almost  comically  have  been  taken  for  an  impersonation  of  Uncle 
Sam,  and  a  large  share  of  the  yearly  dwindling  number  of  inter- 
viewers and  librarians  who  made  a  pilgrimage  to  his  home  (a  pil- 
grimage invariably  ruined  by  the  old  man's  derisive  frivolity  about 
all  artistic  poses)  have  noted  that  with  advancing  years  he  became 
more  and  more  the  Last  Surviving  Connecticut  Yankee.  Even  his 
voice  assumed  a  Yankee  twang  now  forgotten  save  in  bad  plays. 

His  neighbors  tell,  as  their  liveliest  recollection  of  him,  that  when 
Dr.  Sir  Wilfred  Willoughby  Westfrisket,  Eisenbein  Professor  of 
American  Literature  at  Oxford,  waited  for  him  at  his  home  one 
entire  afternoon,  Mr.  Lewis  was  at  a  local  garage,  playing  pinochle 
with  the  village  constable-undertaker. 

Although  Lewis  seems  to  have  had  no  "school"  of  imitators  what- 
ever, it  is  to  be  surmised  that  his  influence  on  our  literature  has  been 
healthful  in  his  derision  of  dullness  and  formalism.  His  use  of  Amer- 
ican lingo  and  humorous  exaggeration  intermingled  with  the  more 
nearly  scholastic  manner  that  was  an  inheritance  from  his  college 
days,  is  at  least  the  equal  in  dignity  and  romantic  charm  of  any 
prince,  any  labor-leader  with  10,000,000  followers— or  any  novelist! 

His  only  surviving  near  relatives  are  his  elder  son,  Wells,  who 
was,  it  will  be  remembered,  a  captain  in  the  A.  E.  F.  of  1942,  and 
who  is  probably  a  more  distinguished,  certainly  a  far  more  subtle 
and  fastidious  novelist  than  his  father;  his  younger  son,  Michael, 
president  of  the  Afro-China  Airways;  and  his  nephew,  Freeman 
Lewis,  the  publisher. 

The  funeral,  which  was  at  the  Millerton  Cremation  Sanctuary, 
was,  by  Mr.  Lewis'  dying  request,  attended  only  by  the  three  servants 
(or,  as  he  eccentrically  called  them,  the  "helpers")  on  his  estate, 
together  with  the  venerable  Dr.  Carl  Van  Doren,  president  emeritus 
of  Columbia  University  and  formerly  ambassador  to  France.  The 
only  music  was  the  playing  of  Beethoven's  Seventh  Symphony,  in 
records,  and  the  only  oratory,  Dr.  Van  Doren's  sole  observation, 
"This  was  a  good  workman  and  a  good  friend,  who  could  still  laugh 
in  days  when  the  world  had  almost  worried  itself  out  of  the  power 
of  laughter," 


A  Preface  to  My  Poems 


BY  GEORGE  SANTAYANA 


New  editions  of  books  are  a  venture  for  publishers  rather  than 
authors.  The  author  has  committed  his  rash  act  once  for  all  at 
the  beginning  and  he  can  hardly  retract  or  repeat  it.  Nevertheless  if 
I  had  not  connived  and  collaborated  at  this  selection  of  verses  writ- 
ten (almost  all  of  them)  in  my  younger  days,  they  probably  would 
not  have  reappeared.  I  therefore  owe  an  apology  to  my  best  critics 
and  friends,  who  have  always  warned  me  that  I  am  no  poet;  all  the 
more  since,  in  the  sense  in  which  they  mean  the  word,  I  heartily 
agree  with  them.  Of  impassioned  tenderness  or  Dionysiac  frenzy  I 
have  nothing,  nor  even  of  that  magic  and  pregnancy  of  phrase— really 
the  creation  of  a  fresh  idiom— which  marks  the  high  lights  of  poetry. 
Even  if  my  temperament  had  been  naturally  warmer,  the  fact  that 
the  English  language  (and  I  can  write  no  other  with  assurance)  was 
not  my  mother-tongue  would  of  itself  preclude  any  inspired  use  of 
it  on  my  part;  its  roots  do  not  quite  reach  to  my  centre.  I  never 
drank  in  in  childhood  the  homely  cadences  and  ditties  which  in  pure 
spontaneous  poetry  set  the  essential  key.  I  know  no  words  redolent 
of  the  wonder-world,  the  fairy-tale,  or  the  cradle.  Moreover,  I  am 
city-bred,  and  that  companionship  with  nature,  those  rural  notes, 
which  for  English  poets  are  almost  inseparable  from  poetic  feeling, 
fail  me  altogether.  Landscape  to  me  is  only  a  background  for  fable 
or  a  symbol  for  fate,  as  it  was  to  the  ancients;  and  the  human  scene 
itself  is  but  a  theme  for  reflection.  Nor  have  I  been  tempted  into  the 
by-ways  even  of  towns,  or  fascinated  by  the  aspect  and  humours  of 
all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men.  My  approach  to  language  is  literary, 
my  images  are  only  metaphors,  and  sometimes  it  seems  to  me  that 
I  resemble  my  countryman  Don  Quixote,  when  in  his  airy  flights  he 
was  merely  perched  on  a  high  horse  and  a  wooden  Pegasus;  and  I  ask 
myself  if  I  ever  had  anything  to  say  in  verse  that  might  not  have  been 
said  better  in  prose. 

And  yet,  in  reality,  there  was  no  such  alternative.  What  I  felt  when 

339 


34o  GEORGE  SANTAYANA 

I  composed  those  verses  could  not  have  been  rendered  in  any  other 
form.  Their  sincerity  is  absolute,  not  only  in  respect  to  the  thought 
which  might  be  abstracted  from  them  and  expressed  in  prose,  but 
also  in  respect  to  the  aura  of  literary  and  religious  associations  which 
envelops  them.  If  their  prosody  is  worn  and  traditional,  like  a  lit- 
urgy, it  is  because  they  represent  the  initiation  of  a  mind  into  a 
world  older  and  larger  than  itself;  not  the  chance  experiences  of  a 
stray  individual,  but  his  submission  to  what  is  not  his  chance  experi- 
ence; to  the  truth  of  nature  and  the  moral  heritage  of  mankind. 
Here  is  the  uncertain  hand  of  an  apprentice,  but  of  an  apprentice 
in  a  great  school.  Verse  is  one  of  the  traditions  of  literature.  Like  the 
orders  of  Greek  architecture,  the  sonnet  or  the  couplet  or  the  quat- 
rain are  better  than  anything  else  that  has  been  devised  to  serve  the 
same  function;  and  the  innate  freedom  of  poets  to  hazard  new  forms 
does  not  abolish  the  freedom  of  all  men  to  adopt  the  old  ones.  It  is 
almost  inevitable  that  a  man  of  letters,  if  his  mind  is  cultivated  and 
capable  of  moral  concentration,  should  versify  occasionally,  or  should 
have  versified.  He  need  not  on  that  account  pose  as  a  poetic  genius, 
and  yet  his  verses  (like  those  of  Michael  Angelo,  for  instance)  may 
form  a  part,  even  if  a  subordinate  part,  of  the  expression  of  his  mind. 
Poetry  was  made  for  man,  not  man  for  poetry,  and  there  are  really 
as  many  kinds  of  it  as  there  are  poets,  or  even  verses.  Is  Hamlet's 
Soliloquy  poetry?  Would  it  have  conveyed  its  meaning  better  if  not 
reined  in  by  the  metre,  and  made  to  prance  and  turn  to  the  cadences 
of  blank  verse?  Whether  better  or  worse,  it  would  certainly  not  be 
itself  without  that  movement.  Versification  is  like  a  pulsing  accom- 
paniment, somehow  sustaining  and  exalting  the  clear  logic  of  the 
words.  The  accompaniment  may  be  orchestral,  but  it  is  not  neces- 
sarily worse  for  being  thrummed  on  a  mandolin  or  a  guitar.  So  the 
couplets  of  Pope  or  Dryden  need  not  be  called  poetry,  but  they  could 
not  have  been  prose.  They  frame  in  a  picture,  balanced  like  the 
dance.  There  is  an  elevation,  too,  in  poetic  diction,  just  because  it  is 
consecrated  and  archaic;  a  pomp  as  of  a  religious  procession,  without 
which  certain  intuitions  would  lose  all  their  grace  and  dignity.  Bor- 
rowed plumes  would  not  even  seem  an  ornament  if  they  were  not  in 
themselves  beautiful.  To  say  that  what  was  good  once  is  good  no 
longer  is  to  give  too  much  importance  to  chronology.  Aesthetic  fash- 
ions may  change,  losing  as  much  beauty  at  one  end  as  they  gain  at 
the  other,  but  innate  taste  continues  to  recognise  its  affinities,  how- 
ever remote,  and  need  never  change.  Mask  and  buskin  are  often 
requisite  in  order  to  transport  what  is  great  in  human  experience 
out  of  its  embosoming  littleness.  They  are  inseparable  from  finality, 


A  PREFACE  TO  MY  POEMS  341 

from  perception  of  the  ultimate.  Perhaps  it  is  just  this  tragic  finality 
that  English  poets  do  not  have  and  do  not  relish:  they  feel  it  to  be 
rhetorical.  But  verse  after  all  is  a  form  of  rhetoric,  as  is  all  speech 
and  even  thought;  a  means  of  pouring  experience  into  a  mould 
which  fluid  experience  cannot  supply,  and  of  transmuting  emotion 
into  ideas,  by  making  it  articulate. 

In  one  sense  I  think  that  my  verses,  mental  and  thin  as  their  tex- 
ture may  be,  represent  a  true  inspiration,  a  true  docility.  A  Muse- 
not  exactly  an  English  Muse— actually  visited  me  in  my  isolation; 
the  same,  or  a  ghost  of  the  same,  that  visited  Boethius  or  Alfred  de 
Musset  or  Leopardi.  It  was  literally  impossible  for  me  then  not  to 
re-echo  her  eloquence.  When  that  compulsion  ceased,  I  ceased  to 
write  verses.  My  emotion— for  there  was  genuine  emotion— faded 
into  a  sense  that  my  lesson  was  learned  and  my  troth  plighted;  there 
was  no  longer  any  occasion  for  this  sort  of  breathlessness  and  unc- 
tion. I  think  the  discerning  reader  will  probably  prefer  the  later 
prose  versions  of  my  philosophy;  I  prefer  them  myself,  as  being  more 
broadly  based,  saner,  more  humorous.  Yet  if  he  is  curious  in  the 
matter  he  may  find  the  same  thing  here  nearer  to  its  fountain-head, 
in  its  accidental  early  setting,  and  with  its  most  authentic  personal 
note. 

For  as  to  the  subject  of  these  poems,  it  is  simply  my  philosophy  in 
the  making.  I  should  not  give  the  title  of  philosopher  to  every  logi- 
cian or  psychologist  who,  in  his  official  and  studious  moments,  may 
weigh  argument  against  argument  or  may  devise  expedients  for  solv- 
ing theoretical  puzzles.  I  see  no  reason  why  a  philosopher  should  be 
puzzled.  What  he  sees  he  sees;  of  the  rest  he  is  ignorant;  and  his  sense 
of  this  vast  ignorance  (which  is  his  natural  and  inevitable  condition) 
is  a  chief  part  of  his  knowledge  and  of  his  emotion.  Philosophy  is  not 
an  optional  theme  that  may  occupy  him  on  occasion.  It  is  his  only 
possible  life,  his  daily  response  to  everything.  He  lives  by  thinking, 
and  his  one  perpetual  emotion  is  that  this  world,  with  himself  in  it, 
should  be  the  strange  world  which  it  is.  Everything  he  thinks  or  ut- 
ters will  accordingly  be  an  integral  part  of  his  philosophy,  whether 
it  be  called  poetry  or  science  or  criticism.  The  verses  of  a  philosopher 
will  be  essentially  epigrams,  like  those  which  the  Greek  sages  com- 
posed; they  will  moralise  the  spectacle,  whether  it  be  some  personal 
passion  or  some  larger  aspect  of  nature. 

My  own  moral  philosophy,  especially  as  expressed  in  this  more 
sentimental  form,  may  not  seem  very  robust  or  joyous.  Its  fortitude 
and  happiness  are  those  of  but  one  type  of  soul.  The  owl  hooting 
from  his  wintry  bough  cannot  be  chanticleer  crowing  in  the  barn- 


342  GEORGE  SANTAYANA 

yard,  yet  he  is  sacred  to  Minerva;  and  the  universal  poet,  who  can 
sing  the  humours  of  winter  no  less  lustily  than  those  of  spring,  may 
even  speak  of  his  "merry  note,"  worthy  to  mingle  with  the  other 
pleasant  accidents  of  the  somberer  season, 

When  icicles  hang  by  the  wall, 

And  coughing  drowns  the  parson's  saw. 

But  whether  the  note  seem  merry  or  sad,  musical  or  uncouth,  it  is 
itself  a  note  of  nature;  and  it  may  at  least  be  commended,  seeing  it 
conveys  a  philosophy,  for  not  conveying  it  by  argument,  but  frankly 
making  confession  of  an  actual  spiritual  experience,  addressed  only 
to  those  whose  ear  it  may  strike  sympathetically  and  who,  crossing 
the  same  dark  wood  on  their  own  errands,  may  pause  for  a  moment 
to  listen  gladly. 


Hu  Shih's  Musketeer 


BY  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 


One  day  early  last  spring  [1941],  Harry  Hopkins  called  up  Daniel 
Arnstein,  the  New  York  trucking  man  and  president  of  the  Ter- 
minal taxicab  company,  and  asked  him  if  he'd  mind  taking  a  little 
trip  to  China.  The  Chinese,  Hopkins  said,  were  in  a  traffic  jam.  The 
Burma  Road  was  all  clogged  up  and  only  a  trickle  of  war  supplies 
was  going  over  it  to  the  front.  The  United  States  was  preparing  to 
ship  about  a  billion  dollars'  worth  of  lend-lease  material  to  China, 
but  before  it  was  sent  the  administration  wanted  somebody  who 
knew  the  trucking  business  to  go  over  there,  find  out  what  was  the 
matter,  and  get  things  moving.  ''Deal  me  in,  Harry,"  said  Arnstein, 
who  had  met  Hopkins  a  few  years  before  and  discovered  they  shared 
an  interest  in  poker,  whiskey,  and  horses.  Three  months  later,  Arn- 
stein, whose  only  contact  with  the  Far  East  up  to  then  consisted  of 
a  few  evenings  spent  at  Ruby  Foo's,  was  on  his  way  across  the  Pacific 
as  a  dollar-a-year  man.  In  Chicago,  where  he  started  his  professional 
career  driving  a  taxi,  in  San  Francisco,  in  Honolulu,  and  in  Manila, 
he  assured  newspaper  reporters  and  anybody  else  who  would  listen 
that  the  Burma  Road  could  be  made  to  work  like  U.S.  No.  1.  "It's  as 
simple  as  A  B  C,"  he  told  a  reporter  in  San  Francisco  three  weeks 
before  he  landed  in  China.  The  farther  west  he  got,  the  more  ex- 
plicit he  grew.  "The  idea  is  to  go  over  and  install  American  methods 
of  moving  freight,"  he  announced  in  Honolulu.  "Those  American 
methods  are  the  best  in  the  world.  They  work  here  and  they'll  work 
in  Burma." 

Arnstein's  spirit  was  willing  but  his  geography  was  weak.  Although 
the  Burma  Road  begins  about  a  hundred  miles  inside  the  Burmese 
border,  most  of  it  lies  in  China.  To  reach  the  road,  supplies  headed 
for  China  are  landed  at  Rangoon,  the  Indian  Ocean  port  on  the 
southern  coast  of  Burma.  From  Rangoon  they  are  shipped  north  by 
railroad  to  the  Burmese  town  of  Lashio.  There  the  railway  ends  and 
the  Burma  Road  begins.  Stretching  northeast  from  Lashio  over  some 

345 


344  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

of  the  most  formidable  mountain  country  in  the  world,  the  road 
winds  up  at  Kunming,  a  distance  of  seven  hundred  and  twenty-six 
miles.  At  Kunming  it  joins  another  highway,  which  leads  to  Chung- 
king, capital  of  Free  China  and  final  destination  of  supplies.  With 
the  exception  of  food  and  the  domestically  manufactured  rifles  and 
bullets,  every  ounce  of  war  material  that  China  needs  must  find  its 
tortuous  way  over  the  Burma  Road.  It  is  an  incredible  journey.  At 
one  point  the  highway  dives  from  a  height  of  seventy-two  hundred 
feet  to  twenty-five  hundred  feet  and  climbs  again  to  seventy-five  hun- 
dred feet  within  the  space  of  forty  miles,  less  than  the  distance  from 
New  York  to  Norwalk.  In  spots  the  road  is  as  wide  as  Fifth  Avenue, 
but  for  over  half  the  way  its  width  is  only  nine  feet.  Nowhere  over 
its  twisting  course  can  a  driver  see  more  than  an  eighth  of  a  mile 
straight  ahead.  The  top  speed  for  safe  driving  (or  what  passes  for 
safety  on  the  Burma  Road)  is  fifteen  miles  an  hour.  The  road  is  un- 
paved  and  is  without  a  single  fence  or  guardrail.  During  the  five 
months  of  the  rainy  season,  from  May  through  September,  the  road- 
bed dissolves  into  a  mass  of  mud.  The  rest  of  the  time  it  is  an  endless 
cloud  of  dust  and  thick  with  mosquitoes;  there  are  also  landslides 
and  air  raids,  and  cholera,  typhoid,  and  malaria  flourish  along  the 
route.  In  the  early  stages  of  its  construction  four  out  of  five  workers 
on  the  road  died  of  malaria. 

Like  the  Great  Wall  of  China,  the  Chinese  portion  of  the  Burma 
Road  was  built  by  hand.  With  a  government  appropriation  of  less 
than  $2,000,000,  construction  began,  after  the  outbreak  of  war  in 
eastern  China,  in  August,  1937,  at  which  time  the  British  also  went 
to  work  on  the  Burmese  side.  Chinese  men,  women,  and  children 
were  recruited  from  villages  along  the  route  of  the  new  road.  Sup- 
plying their  own  food,  shelter,  and  tools,  they  set  to  work,  for  three 
or  four  cents  a  day,  chipping  at  the  mountainsides  with  adzes.  A  few 
compressed-air  drills  for  drilling  holes  in  which  to  plant  dynamite 
charges  were  their  only  modern  equipment.  Stone  rollers  were  used 
to  smooth  the  road.  They  were  chiselled  out  of  the  rock  by  hand  and 
drawn  along  by  bullocks.  To  make  fills,  earth  was  dug  out  of  the 
cliffsides  and  carried  in  baskets  wherever  it  was  needed.  In  December 
of  1938  the  Burma  Road  was  opened  to  traffic.  During  the  sixteen 
months  which  had  elapsed  a  quarter  of  a  million  Chinese  had  hacked 
out  a  road  over  seven  hundred  miles  long  and  built  some  two  thou- 
sand culverts  and  almost  three  hundred  bridges,  including  two  im- 
portant suspension  bridges  where  the  highway  crosses  the  Mekong 
and  Salween  Rivers.  Japanese  aviators  have  been  trying  for  months 
to  bomb  out  these  two  bridges.  They  have  scored  several  hits,  none 


HU  SHIH'S  MUSKETEER  345 

of  them  critical.  But  even  if  one  of  the  bridges  were  destroyed,  traffic 
would  not  be  halted  for  long;  the  Chinese  have  devised  temporary 
expedients  of  one  sort  and  another  to  keep  trucks  moving  across  the 
rivers.  The  Chinese  are  philosophical  about  bombs  and  air  raids.  "It 
cost  Japanese  a  thousand  dollars  for  bomb  to  make  hole,"  one  inter- 
preter explained  brightly  to  Arnstein,  "and  it  cost  Chinese  eight 
cents  to  fill  it  up." 

For  several  months  after  the  completion  of  the  Burma  Road  it  was 
not  an  important  route  for  goods  entering  China.  Throughout  1939 
and  the  first  part  of  1940,  the  bulk  of  China's  supplies  still  entered 
at  Shanghai,  Hangchow,  Canton,  and  other  coastal  ports,  which  were 
later  occupied  by  the  Japanese.  In  addition,  close  to  forty  thousand 
tons  a  month  were  being  shipped  by  railway  and  road  through 
French  Indo-China.  When  France  fell,  the  Japanese  inveigled  Indo- 
China  into  refusing  to  allow  goods  headed  for  China  to  cross  her 
territory.  The  Burma  Road  was  now  the  only  route  of  consequence 
from  the  outside  world  into  Free  China.  Then  Britain,  also  acceding 
to  Japanese  pressure,  closed  the  Burma  border  to  all  traffic  and  for 
three  gloomy  months  China  was  completely  blockaded.  In  October, 
1940,  the  border  was  reopened  and  trucks  began  moving  over  the 
road  again.  The  results  were  disappointing.  Although  more  than  a 
hundred  thousand  tons  of  vital  materials  were  piled  up  in  Burma 
awaiting  delivery,  an  average  of  only  about  four  thousand  tons  a 
month  was  reaching  Kunming.  This  was  scarcely  enough  for  an  army 
of  three  million  men.  During  1940,  two  commissions,  one  British 
and  one  American,  were  dispatched  to  China  to  unclog  the  lifeline. 
Both  got  bogged  down  in  Chinese  politics  and  nothing  happened. 
In  February  of  last  year  [1941],  Lauchlin  Currie,  lend-lease  admin- 
istrator for  China,  returned  from  Chungking  with  this  and  other  dis- 
heartening information.  He  made  his  report  to  the  White  House. 
Late  the  following  month,  Harry  Hopkins  got  in  touch  with  Arn- 
stein, who  was  on  a  fishing  trip  off  Key  Largo,  in  Florida.  He  left  for 
Washington  the  next  day  to  talk  with  Hopkins,  Currie,  and  T.  V. 
Soong,  the  Chinese  Foreign  Minister.  The  more  Arnstein  heard 
about  the  job  to  be  done  the  more  certain  he  became  that  he  was  the 
only  man  in  the  country  who  could  handle  it.  "I  began  to  get  the 
American  angle  in  all  that  Far  Eastern  stuff,"  he  says,  "so  I  decided 
to  go  over  and  do  the  goddam  job  myself." 

To  help  him  on  the  mission,  Arnstein  picked  a  couple  of  his 
friends,  Harold  C.  Davis,  vice-president  of  Consolidated  Motor 
Lines,  the  largest  trucking  company  in  New  England,  and  Marco 
Hellman,  a  transportation  expert  associated  with  Lehman  Brothers. 


346  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

Davis,  a  burly,  hardheaded,  good-natured  ex-truck  driver  who,  like 
Arnstein,  came  up  the  hard  way,  took  along  a  movie  camera  and  two 
other  cameras  and  conscientiously  kept  a  day-by-day  diary  of  the 
trip.  Hellman,  who  is  small,  quiet,  and  a  Harvard  man,  had  the  title 
of  financial  adviser  and  doubled  as  diplomatic  expert.  Whenever 
Arnstein  would  profanely  bawl  out  a  Chinese  official,  Hellman 
would  smilingly  explain  that  all  American  businessmen  talked  like 
that.  Arnstein's  function  is  explained  by  an  entry  Davis  made  in  his 
diary  shortly  before  the  mission's  departure.  ''Dan  seems  to  have  the 
whole  expedition  departmentalized,"  he  noted.  "Whenever  any  prob- 
lem arises,  he  says,  'Harold,  that's  your  department'  or  'Mickey  [Hell- 
man's  nickname],  that's  your  department.'  When  we  asked  what  he 
was  going  to  do,  Dan  said,  'Hell,  I  can't  be  tied  down  to  a  depart- 
ment. I'm  going  to  do  all  the  thinking  on  this  trip.'  "  Before  Arn- 
stein and  his  colleagues  left,  they  had  inoculations  for  smallpox, 
cholera,  and  typhoid.  Arnstein,  who  likes  to  get  things  done  fast, 
took  his  cholera  and  typhoid  shots  together.  Afterward  he  felt  a  trifle 
chilly,  so  he  downed  a  few  double  Scotches.  The  combination  left 
him  physically  dishevelled  and  he  set  out  for  China  with  a  curious 
typhoid-cholera-whiskey  hangover. 

At  eight  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  July  12th,  the  American  mis- 
sion arrived  in  Chungking,  and  at  five  o'clock  that  afternoon  they 
were  received  by  Generalissimo  and  Mme.  Chiang  Kai-shek.  Arn- 
stein was  surprised  by  the  simplicity  of  the  Generalissimo's  living 
quarters,  a  small  frame  structure  with  fewer  rooms  than  his  own 
house  on  Beekman  Place.  Through  an  interpreter,  the  Generalissimo 
made  a  nice  little  speech  thanking  the  Americans  for  the  personal 
and  financial  sacrifices  they  were  making  in  coming  to  help  China. 
Arnstein,  a  man  of  many  words,  made  a  long  speech  in  reply.  In  the 
midst  of  his  declamation  he  put  his  foot  on  a  low  table,  apparently 
under  the  impression  that  it  was  a  running  board,  and  knocked  a 
vase  of  flowers  into  Hellman's  lap,  leaving  him  very  moist.  "Dan 
paid  no  attention,"  Davis  wrote  in  his  diary.  "He  just  speeded  up  the 
conversation."  At  a  fast  clip,  Arnstein  informed  Chiang  Kai-shek 
that  he  had  served  in  the  first  World  War  and  that  he  figured  he 
ought  to  be  doing  something  for  his  country  again,  even  though  he 
was,  at  fifty,  too  old  to  carry  a  gun.  When  all  this  had  been  relayed 
to  the  Generalissimo,  he  smiled  and  replied,  "The  service  you  will 
render  here  will  be  much  greater  than  any  single  soldier  with  a  gun." 
He  added  that  he  was  going  to  send  a  message  to  his  troops  telling 
them  how  Mr.  Arnstein  had  left  his  business  to  come  and  work  for 
China  at  a  salary  of  a  dollar  a  year. 


HU  SHIFTS  MUSKETEER  347 

After  paying  his  compliments  to  Generalissimo  and  Mme.  Chiang, 
Arnstein  was  eager  to  get  started  on  his  inspection  trip  over  the 
Burma  Road,  but  the  Chinese  seemed  to  be  in  no  great  hurry.  For 
ten  days  he  and  his  party  lingered  in  Chungking,  where  they  were 
unceasingly  entertained  by  Chinese  officials.  One  of  the  biggest  func- 
tions was  a  dinner  party  for  eighteen  at  the  home  of  General  Ho 
Ying-Chin,  the  Minister  of  War.  The  affair,  as  Davis  observed  in  his 
diary,  was  a  brilliant  social  triumph  for  Arnstein,  who  sat  at  the 
General's  right.  ''After  our  glasses  had  been  filled  with  rice  wine," 
the  entry  reads,  "Danny  started  right  off  the  bat  calling  for  a  toast 
to  General  Ho's  health.  This  seemed  to  startle  our  hosts  a  bit,  as  they 
generally  ease  into  it,  but  it  broke  the  ice,  which  up  to  then  had 
made  the  party  rather  stiff.  We  had  some  more  rice  wine,  and  Gen- 
eral Ho  called  for  a  toast  to  Danny's  health.  After  dinner  we  killed 
a  bottle  of  Russian  brandy  and  polished  off  with  some  Five-Star 
Hennessy."  The  General's  enthusiasm  died  sometime  before  dawn, 
but  Arnstein  was  still  in  high  gear. 

Finally  setting  out,  Arnstein  and  his  colleagues  flew  to  Kunming, 
where  a  convoy  of  four  new  Dodge  sedans  and  a  truck  to  carry  bag- 
gage was  waiting  for  them.  Besides  the  Americans,  the  expedition 
included  five  Chinese  chauffeurs,  two  interpreters,  T.  C.  Chen,  a 
government  official  who  had  something  to  do  with  supervising  traffic 
on  the  road,  a  pair  of  soldiers,  and  a  cook.  The  cook,  as  it  turned 
out,  just  went  along  for  the  ride,  since  the  supply  of  G.  Washington 
coffee,  baked  beans,  and  other  canned  goods  which  Arnstein  had 
brought  all  the  way  from  San  Francisco  was  inadvertently  left  be- 
hind in  Chungking.  They  stayed  overnight  in  whatever  accommo- 
dations they  could  find  and  picked  up  their  meals  at  the  homes  of 
minor  provincial  officials  along  the  route.  Most  of  the  time  they 
slept,  when  not  kept  awake  by  rats,  on  straw  mats.  One  night  they 
put  up  at  a  temple.  "It  was  the  best  place  in  town,"  Arnstein  says, 
"but  it  was  full  of  those  goddam  idols."  He  and  his  colleagues  made 
the  trip  from  Kunming  to  Lashio  in  five  days,  driving  until  late  at 
night  and  stopping  during  the  day  to  inspect  trucks,  look  over  the 
meagre  service  facilities,  talk  to  truck  drivers  they  encountered  on 
the  way,  and  make  exhaustive  notes  on  their  observations. 

To  truckers  who  had  managed  some  of  the  biggest  motor  freight 
lines  in  the  United  States,  the  situation  on  the  Burma  Road  was  fan- 
tastic. Sixteen  separate  governmental  agencies  had  a  hand  in  running 
it.  None  of  them  kept  any  records  of  the  amount  or  kind  of  cargo 
moved  or  how  long  it  took  trucks  to  make  their  runs.  Each  agency 
was  running  an  independent  business  with  its  own  fleet  of  trucks  and 


348  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

repair  stations.  One  employed  thirty  mechanics  to  take  care  of  fifty 
trucks  while  another  had  fifteen  men  to  service  a  fleet  of  a  hundred 
and  fifty.  In  the  village  of  Hsiakwan,  Arnstein  found  a  dozen  trucks 
belonging  to  one  government  agency  laid  up  for  lack  of  spare  parts. 
Across  the  road  in  a  garage  owned  by  another  agency  were  all  the 
spare  parts  needed.  Apparently  nobody  had  figured  out  how  to  get 
them  to  the  other  side  of  the  road. 

Arnstein  also  discovered  that  more  than  half  the  traffic  on  the 
Burma  Road  was  made  up  of  private  trucks  hauling  commercial 
cargo  instead  of  war  materials.  Between  Lashio  and  Kunming,  these 
trucks  had  to  check  in  and  out  of  eleven  customs  houses  and  provin- 
cial toll  stations.  When  private  trucks  were  held  up  at  these  stations, 
government  trucks  were  also  often  delayed,  sometimes  for  days,  since 
the  road  at  many  points  is  too  narrow  to  permit  passing.  As  a  result, 
government  trucks  were  taking  from  ten  to  thirty  days  to  make  the 
726-mile  run.  Arnstein  learned  of  one  instance  in  which  twenty  gov- 
ernment trucks  carrying  paper  currency  for  the  Central  Bank  of 
China  were  held  up  en  route  for  a  total  of  eleven  days.  Some  of  the 
toll  stations  were  collecting  legitimate  taxes.  In  one  case,  however, 
Arnstein  found  an  enterprising  provincial  official  who  had  set  up  a 
little  toll  booth  on  his  own  and  was  halting  trucks  to  collect  what  he 
vaguely  referred  to  as  school  taxes.  At  Wanting,  a  town  on  the  Bur- 
mese border,  drivers  had  to  struggle  past  eight  desks  before  getting 
on  their  way.  Arnstein's  own  convoy  was  held  up  at  Wanting  for  six 
hours  because  two  hundred  and  fifty  trucks,  lined  up  three  abreast, 
blocked  the  road.  To  add  to  the  delays,  officials  at  the  toll  stations 
were  operating  on  a  business-as-usual  basis;  they  opened  at  eight  and 
closed  at  six,  regardless  of  the  number  of  trucks  waiting  to  clear.  At 
one  station,  Arnstein  noticed  an  official  sitting  in  his  office  in  the 
middle  of  the  day  reading  a  magazine  while  trucks  outside  were 
lined  up  for  a  quarter  of  a  mile.  "The  son  of  a  bitch  was  sitting  there 
with  a  smile  on  his  puss  reading  True  Confessions,"  Arnstein  says, 
still  furious. 

Of  the  scores  of  trucks  which  Arnstein  inspected  on  his  trip  over 
the  Burma  Road,  not  one  showed  any  sign  of  having  been  greased. 
The  Chinese  drivers,  it  turned  out,  had  never  heard  about  greasing, 
and  consequently  their  trucks  stood  up  for  only  about  a  dozen  round 
trips.  Out  of  2,887  government  trucks,  1,480  were  in  working  order; 
the  rest  were  laid  up,  mainly  because  of  lack  of  lubrication.  When- 
ever machines  broke  down,  the  Chinese  abandoned  them  at  the  road- 
side. In  a  field  near  Kunming,  Arnstein  counted  a  hundred  and  sixty 
trucks  which  had  been  left  to  rust,  and  at  Lecfong  a  hundred  and 


HU  SHIH'S  MUSKETEER  349 

eighty  more,  many  of  them  with  good  tires.  "To  think,"  said  Dan, 
who  kept  lecturing  his  Chinese  companions  en  route,  "that  the 
U.  S.  A.  sent  over  fifty  thousand  tires,  and  then  I  come  along  and 
find  a  situation  like  this.  What's  the  idea?"  On  the  journey,  Arnstein 
carried  on  an  endless  monologue  about  lubrication.  Stopping  a  truck 
on  the  road  and  finding  the  shackles,  springs,  and  steering  knuckles 
dry  and  caked  with  mud,  Arnstein  would  haul  the  driver  out  of  his 
cab  and  give  him  a  lacing  in  English.  Not  understanding  what  all  the 
racket  was  for,  the  driver  would  scramble  around  under  the  truck 
with  Arnstein,  nodding  and  smiling  politely,  and  then  get  back  in 
his  truck  and  wave  a  cheery  good-bye.  Arnstein  felt  frustrated. 

Changing  a  tire  on  the  Burma  Road,  Arnstein  found,  was  a  major 
operation  taking  about  half  a  day.  Having  no  jacks  or  tire  irons  and 
no  tools  except  a  pair  of  pliers,  a  screwdriver,  and  a  hammer,  a 
driver,  when  he  got  a  flat,  had  to  round  up  four  or  five  coolies  and 
a  barrel.  Using  a  stout  pole  as  a  lever,  all  hands  hoisted  the  axle  and 
rolled  the  barrel  underneath.  If  no  barrel  was  handy,  the  coolies 
hauled  over  a  boulder.  Since  even  the  simplest  tools  were  scarce, 
Arnstein  was  surprised  to  discover  an  elaborate  and  expensive  mech- 
anism known  as  a  power  tester  in  a  ramshackle  repair  shed  deep  in 
the  interior.  Nobody  could  explain  how  a  power  tester,  which  is  a 
sort  of  stethoscope  to  test  motors  and  is  usually  found  only  in  the 
best-equipped  garages  in  this  country,  had  wound  up  on  the  Burma 
Road.  The  Chinese  regarded  it  with  wonderment  and  admiration. 
"The  more  we  go  into  the  problems  here,"  Davis  observed  midway 
in  the  trip,  "the  nuttier  they  seem.  We  have  to  take  time  out  occa- 
sionally and  play  a  couple  of  games  of  cards  to  relax  our  brains." 

Their  brains  grew  tense  when  they  discovered  that  several  of  the 
trucking  agencies  had  a  rule  requiring  drivers  to  wash  their  own 
trucks  several  times  a  month.  They  saw  many  drivers,  with  their 
trucks  loaded  for  the  road,  working  on  them  with  a  bucket  of  water 
as  late  as  ten  in  the  morning.  In  the  repair  shops  they  found  me- 
chanics spending  all  their  time  trying  to  fix  up  the  government's 
oldest  trucks  while  new  ones  were  being  allowed  to  run  as  long  as 
they  would  without  attention.  Government  trucks  on  the  road  were 
moving  in  convoys  of  between  fifteen  and  twenty  vehicles,  a  practice 
which  provided  an  unduly  attractive  target  for  Japanese  bombers 
and  also  limited  the  progress  of  the  entire  procession  to  the  speed  of 
the  slowest  truck.  If  one  of  the  trucks  broke  down,  the  rest  of  the 
convoy  would  hang  around  until  the  repairs  had  been  made,  even 
if  it  took  six  or  eight  hours.  Inspecting  and  adjusting  carburetors  to 
conserve  gasoline  was  as  unfamiliar  a  practice  as  greasing;  Arnstein 


350  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

estimated  that  the  Chinese  were  wasting  from  twenty-five  to  forty 
per  cent  of  their  gas.  Loading  was  haphazard.  The  Chinese  stacked 
the  heaviest  freight  in  the  front  of  the  trucks,  and  front  springs  were 
snapping  constantly.  In  addition,  one-and-a-half-ton  trucks  were  be- 
ing loaded  as  heavily  as  a  four-ton  truck  should  be.  This  was  not  en- 
tirely the  fault  of  the  Chinese.  Arnstein  found  that  some  of  the 
American  companies  selling  trucks  to  China  had  been  painting  "4 
ton"  on  every  one-and-a-half-ton  vehicle  before  it  left  the  assembly 
plants  in  Rangoon.  Since  the  Chinese  were  paying  for  large  trucks, 
they  figured  they  were  getting  them  and  loaded  them  up  accordingly. 
Each  truck  had  to  carry,  in  addition  to  its  regular  cargo,  enough  gas 
—five  large  drums— to  make  the  round  trip.  Often  something  went 
wrong,  and  trucks  got  stranded  for  lack  of  fuel.  In  Chungking,  Arn- 
stein saw  seventy  trucks  in  good  condition  which  had  been  laid  up 
for  three  weeks  because  they  had  no  gas  for  the  return  trip.  To  com- 
plicate the  overloading  problem,  government  drivers  were  in  the 
habit  of  illegally  carrying  commercial  freight,  which  they  called 
"pidgin  cargo,"  and  passengers,  known  as  "yellow  fish."  Arnstein 
stopped  one  small  truck  to  inspect  its  cargo  and  see  how  it  was 
loaded.  He  lifted  the  tarpaulin  at  the  back  and  "yellow  fish"  started 
tumbling  out.  Altogether,  eleven  passengers,  along  with  a  sizable  le- 
gitimate cargo,  were  packed  into  the  truck. 

By  American  standards  of  professional  ethics,  Chinese  drivers  were 
no  great  shakes.  They  were  being  paid  two  hundred  and  fifty  Chi- 
nese dollars  a  month  (about  $10  U.S.),  but  some  were  picking  up 
from  $1,000  to  $1,500  (Chinese)  a  month  in  graft,  which  is  more  than 
a  Chinese  government  minister's  salary.  Meeting  a  private  truck  in 
trouble,  government  drivers  would  stop  and  agreeably  remove  from 
their  own  trucks  whatever  parts  were  needed,  sell  them  at  a  good 
price,  and  enjoy  themselves  for  a  few  days  with  mah-jongg,  wine,  and 
the  local  girls.  Although  theoretically  under  strict  military  disci- 
pline, drivers  were  apt  to  mix  business  with  pleasure  on  a  grand 
scale.  After  a  night  of  carousing  they  would  get  out  on  the  road  about 
noon  with  a  rice-wine  hangover.  To  save  gas,  which  they  could  sell 
at  forty  Chinese  dollars  a  gallon  along  the  way,  they  had  a  dangerous 
habit  of  coasting  down  the  twisting,  spiralling  grades,  the  ignition 
off,  one  foot  on  the  clutch,  the  other  on  the  brake.  Since  the  road 
opened,  thirteen  hundred  trucks  have  disappeared  over  the  side. 

Arnstein  and  his  assistants  reached  the  end  of  the  road  on  July 
26th.  Three  days  later  they  flew  to  Rangoon,  where  they  put  up  at 
the  Strand  Hotel,  and,  after  spending  their  first  evening  at  the  Silver 
Grill,  the  only  night  club  in  town,  they  began  work  on  their  report 


HU  SHIH\S  MUSKETEER  351 

to  Chiang  Kai-shek.  Dictating  in  relays  to  a  pair  of  Burmese  girl 
stenographers,  they  turned  out  a  hundred  and  forty  double-spaced 
typewritten  pages  of  irate  observations,  sizzling  complaints,  and 
sweeping  but  simple  recommendations.  By  August  5th,  these  had 
been  condensed  under  Hellman's  direction  into  a  final  draft  of 
thirty-five  pages  and  Arnstein  had  returned  to  Chung-king  and  deliv- 
ered a  copy  to  Chiang  Kai-shek.  The  report  was  written  in  Arn- 
stein's  own  kind  of  diplomatic  language.  The  fanciest  and  most  tact- 
ful word  in  it  is  "intolerable;"  it  is  also  the  most  frequent.  "The 
main  reason  that  practically  no  tonnage  is  moving  the  full  length  of 
the  Burma  Road,"  the  report  begins,  "is  due  to  an  entire  lack  of 
knowledge  of  the  fundamentals  of  motor  transportation  by  the  men 
now  in  charge.  The  present  governmental  agencies  that  are  trying 
to  operate  trucks  on  the  road  are  overloaded  with  executives  and 
office  personnel.  No  one  gets  right  down  into  the  actual  operating 
end  of  the  business."  The  report  goes  on  to  prescribe  a  remedy  for 
every  ailment. 

Eighteen  hours  after  receiving  the  report  and  having  it  translated, 
Chiang  Kai-shek  acted  on  one  of  its  strongest  recommendations,  or- 
dering the  customs  houses  and  toll  stations  on  the  road  to  stay  open 
twenty-four  hours  a  day.  He  also  gave  orders  that  instead  of  eleven 
toll  and  customs  houses  scattered  along  the  route,  one  central  office 
to  transact  all  this  business  be  opened  at  a  place  where  ample  park- 
ing space  was  available.  He  directed  that  any  delay  of  a  government 
truck  of  more  than  half  an  hour  be  reported  directly  to  him.  An- 
other recommendation  was  to  disband  the  sixteen  government  agen- 
cies and  to  appoint  an  experienced  trucking  man,  preferably  an 
American,  to  have  authority  over  all  operations  on  the  road.  The 
Generalissimo  agreed,  and  this  post  has  been  filled  by  Lieutenant 
Colonel  James  Wilson,  a  West  Point  graduate  who  has  had  seven 
years'  experience  in  the  trucking  business.  Following  Arnstein's 
blueprint  and  reporting  to  Chiang  Kai-shek,  Wilson  is  now  install- 
ing a  truck-dispatching  system  modelled  on  American  lines.  Six  ter- 
minals are  being  set  up  along  the  road  at  intervals  of  a  day's  run. 
Besides  mechanics  and  equipment  for  greasing  and  repairing  trucks, 
each  terminal  will  include  comfortable  overnight  accommodations 
for  drivers.  When  the  terminals  are  completed,  drivers  will  be  re- 
quired to  check  out  of  one  in  the  morning  and  into  the  next  that 
night.  The  convoy  system  has  been  abandoned,  so  each  driver  will 
be  on  his  own.  Before  taking  to  the  road,  trucks  will  be  rigidly  in- 
spected, to  make  sure  they  will  not  break  down  in  transit.  To  man 
the  terminals,  six  managers,  a  maintenance  supervisor,  and  eighteen 


352  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

dispatchers  and  mechanics,  all  Americans  hand-picked  by  Arnstein 
and  Davis,  arrived  in  China  about  six  weeks  ago.  Within  the  last  few 
days,  Arnstein  has  received  word  that  a  second  group,  consisting  of 
forty-six  American  managers  and  mechanics,  who  were  stranded  at 
Manila  when  war  was  declared,  are  now  on  their  way  to  Rangoon 
and  will  presently  be  at  work  in  China.  Acting  as  teachers,  the  tech- 
nicians from  the  United  States  will  train  the  Chinese  in  American 
methods  of  greasing,  repairing,  and  loading  trucks. 

Taking  another  of  Arnstein's  recommendations,  Chiang  Kai-shek 
ordered  that  all  private  trucks  arriving  in  Rangoon  from  America  be 
required  to  carry  government  freight  and  gasoline  on  three  out  of 
every  four  trips  over  the  road.  This  proposal  alone  has  been  respon- 
sible for  getting  at  least  a  thousand  additional  tons  of  freight  to 
Chungking  every  month.  Construction  of  a  gasoline  pipeline  into 
the  interior  is  under  way,  and  filling  stations  are  being  set  up  along 
the  road  from  Lashio  about  halfway  to  Kunming.  Forty-five  hundred 
new  heavy-duty  American  trucks  are  now  rolling  over  the  road,  and 
more  are  on  the  way.  A  start  has  been  made  on  a  project  to  pave  cer- 
tain sections  of  the  highway  with  American  asphalt,  ten  thousand 
tons  of  which  have  already  arrived.  Schools  have  been  opened  to 
teach  Chinese  drivers  the  fundamentals  of  handling  their  machines; 
the  instructors  are  Americans  employed  by  the  truck  manufacturers. 
Government  trucks  are  now  permitted  to  carry  two  paying  passen- 
gers apiece;  half  the  money  collected  goes  to  the  driver,  the  other 
half  to  the  government.  To  enforce  this  rule  and  to  keep  drivers 
from  hauling  contraband  freight,  coasting  down  grades,  and  selling 
parts  of  their  trucks,  prowl  cars  have  been  ordered  to  carry  on  a  con- 
stant patrol  of  the  highway.  The  road  police,  Arnstein  says,  will  have 
their  hands  full,  since  they  will  have  to  protect  the  drivers  not  only 
from  themselves  but  also  from  the  outside  interference  of  highway 
robbers,  who  flourish  in  considerable  force  along  the  Burma  Road. 
You  can't  change  a  nation  overnight,  he  points  out,  and  in  frontier 
country  you  have  to  expect  a  certain  amount  of  Wild  West  stuff. 
What  is  more  important,  in  his  view,  is  that  the  road  is  being  kept 
open  and  that  so  long  as  supplies  keep  moving  over  it  in  increas- 
ing quantity  China  can  continue  to  defend  herself  and  ultimately 
take  the  offensive.  Arnstein  is  confident  that  this  vital  freight  will 
keep  moving.  Practically  all  lend-lease  material  for  China  has  been 
shipped  by  way  of  South  Africa,  so  even  if  Singapore  should  fall,  he 
thinks,  supply  ships  could  still  reach  Rangoon.  At  least  a  hundred 
American  flyers,  all  of  whom  resigned  from  the  United  States  Army 
or  Navy  to  aid  China,  are  now  assigned  to  defending  the  Burma 


HU  SHIH'S  MUSKETEER  353 

Road  from  air  attack.  They  have  so  far  been  notably  successful. 
"There's  been  some  squawking  in  the  papers  lately  about  conditions 
on  the  road,"  Arnstein  says.  "God  knows  it's  no  Boston  Post  Road, 
but  at  least  the  stuff  is  moving  now."  Specifically,  the  amount  of 
freight  moved  over  the  Burma  Road  since  Arnstein  went  to  work  has 
increased  between  four  and  five  hundred  per  cent. 

Chiang  Kai-shek,  pleased  as  he  was  with  Arnstein's  work  on  the 
Burma  Road,  was  even  more  delighted  with  his  diplomatic  coup  in 
getting  Great  Britain  to  remove  the  Burmese  transit  tax  on  lend- 
lease  supplies.  Before  Arnstein  arrived,  China  had  been  required  to 
pay  the  government  of  Burma  a  tax  of  one  per  cent  of  the  value  of 
these  supplies.  The  levy  did  not  apply  to  British  goods  headed  for 
China.  Frequently  the  Chinese  did  not  have  the  cash  to  pay  the  tax, 
and  badly  needed  lend-lease  material  was  piling  up  on  the  border. 
When  Arnstein  heard  about  this,  he  began  calling  on  Burmese  offi- 
cials, starting  with  the  Defense  Minister  and  winding  up  with  U 
Saw,  the  Premier  of  Burma,  and  Sir  Reginald  Dorman-Smith,  the 
Governor  General.  He  told  them  all  caustically  and  a  bit  profanely 
he  thought  it  was  not  only  unjust  but  shortsighted  to  make  it  dim- 
cult  for  China  to  get  supplies  to  fight  an  aggressor  that  might  some- 
day be  attacking  Burma  itself.  Sir  Reginald  and  the  other  officials 
gave  him  tea  and  a  polite  brushoff.  When  Arnstein  got  back  to 
Chungking,  he  called  in  newspaper  correspondents  and  raged  about 
the  tax.  "I'm  no  politician,"  Arnstein  exclaimed,  "I'm  just  a  truck- 
man. But  I  say  this  tax  has  got  to  go  and,  believe  you  me,  it's  going. 
Wait  till  this  story  busts  wide  open  in  the  United  States."  Three 
weeks  later  the  British  Embassy  in  Chungking  announced  that  the 
transit  duty  had  been  abolished,  thus  saving  China  several  million 
dollars  a  year. 

The  night  before  they  left  Chungking  to  return  to  the  United 
States,  Arnstein,  Davis,  and  Hellman  were  invited  to  dinner  by 
Generalissimo  and  Mme.  Chiang  Kai-shek.  Chiang  Kai-shek  made  a 
speech  effusively  praising  the  report  and  proposing  that  the  three 
men  take  control  not  only  of  the  Burma  Road  but  of  all  the  roads  in 
China.  They  could  name  their  own  salary,  he  said.  When  they  turned 
down  the  proposition,  the  Generalissimo  suggested  that  at  least  one 
of  them  remain.  Finally,  he  proposed  that  Arnstein  and  his  col- 
leagues form  a  commercial  company,  backed  by  Chinese  government 
funds,  to  take  over  the  Burma  Road  and  operate  it  as  a  private  con- 
cession. Arnstein  declined  in  a  speech  that  nevertheless  pleased  the 
Generalissimo.  "I  don't  see  why  we  should  make  money  out  of  the 
war  when  the  Chinese  themselves  can  do  the  job,"  he  said.  "This  sys- 


354  JOHN  BAINBRIDGE 

tern  will  work.  If  it  doesn't,  I'll  be  back  in  three  months  to  fix  it.  If 
it  does,  I'll  be  back  in  six  months  to  get  a  pat  on  the  back."  Chiang 
Kai-shek  seemed  cheered,  and  replied  in  English,  "Good,  good, 
good."  As  they  were  leaving,  he  presented  each  of  the  Americans 
with  an  autographed  picture  of  himself.  Three  weeks  later  they  were 
back  in  New  York.  Arnstein  was  met  at  the  airport  by  his  wife  and 
daughter  and  escorted  home  by  a  fleet  of  fifteen  Terminal  cabs,  the 
windows  of  which  were  plastered  with  stickers  reading,  "Welcome 
Home,  Dan." 

Since  his  return,  Arnstein  has  found  it  difficult  to  settle  down  to 
routine  business.  He  worries  a  lot  about  the  Burma  Road  and  flies 
down  to  Washington  frequently  to  talk  with  Harry  Hopkins  and 
Lauchlin  Currie,  the  lend-lease  administrator,  and  get  reports  on 
how  things  are  going  over  there.  "Danny's  heart,"  one  of  his  friends 
said  recently,  "belongs  to  China."  A  few  weeks  ago  about  sixty  of 
Arnstein's  friends  gave  him  a  belated  home-coming  party.  Among 
the  guests  were  Dr.  Hu  Shih,  the  Chinese  Ambassador,  and  Dr.  C.  L. 
Shia,  the  president  of  the  Chinese  News  Service.  After  Davis  had 
shown  the  pictures  he  took  in  China  and  Arnstein  had  made  a  long 
talk,  the  Chinese  guests  spoke  about  the  guest  of  honor.  "I  proph- 
esy," said  Dr.  Shia,  winding  up  his  address,  "that  Mr.  Arnstein's 
name  will  be  recorded  not  alone  in  the  history  of  China  but  as  well 
in  the  history  of  the  world."  After  comparing  Arnstein  with  Porthos, 
the  strong  man  of  the  Three  Musketeers,  Dr.  Hu  Shih,  too,  put  him 
down  as  a  likely  candidate  for  the  history  books.  He  was  more  spe- 
cific. "As  for  the  others,"  said  Dr.  Hu,  "I  cannot  say.  But  when  I 
write  my  history  of  China,  Mr.  Arnstein's  name  will  be  there."  Since 
Dr.  Hu  Shih  is  considered  by  some  people  to  be  the  greatest  Chinese 
scholar  since  Confucius,  the  tribute  was  impressive.  When  the  party 
was  over,  Arnstein  walked  down  the  street  with  a  few  friends  to  the 
Copacabana.  He  danced  a  couple  of  sambas,  and  then,  in  a  warm 
glow  of  Scotch-and-water,  he  fell  to  musing  on  his  position  as  a  his- 
torical character.  "Imagine,"  he  said,  "a  goddam  hoodlum  like  me 
going  down  in  history," 


Thoreau 


BY  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 


enry  David  Thoreau  was  the  last  male  descendant  of  a  French 
ancestor  who  came  to  this  country  from  the  Isle  of  Guernsey. 
His  character  exhibited  occasional  traits  drawn  from  this  blood  in 
singular  combination  with  a  very  strong  Saxon  genius. 

He  was  born  in  Concord,  Massachusetts,  on  the  12th  of  July,  1817. 
He  was  graduated  at  Harvard  College  in  1837,  Dut  without  any  liter- 
ary distinction.  An  iconoclast  in  literature,  he  seldom  thanked  col- 
leges for  their  service  to  him,  holding  them  in  small  esteem,  whilst 
yet  his  debt  to  them  was  important.  After  leaving  the  University,  he 
joined  his  brother  in  teaching  a  private  school,  which  he  soon  re- 
nounced. His  father  was  a  manufacturer  of  lead-pencils,  and  Henry 
applied  himself  for  a  time  to  this  craft,  believing  he  could  make  a 
better  pencil  than  was  then  in  use.  After  completing  his  experiments, 
he  exhibited  his  work  to  chemists  and  artists  in  Boston,  and  having 
obtained  their  certificates  to  its  excellence  and  to  its  equality  with 
the  best  London  manufacture,  he  returned  home  contented.  His 
friends  congratulated  him  that  he  had  now  opened  his  way  to  for- 
tune. But  he  replied,  that  he  should  never  make  another  pencil. 
"Why  should  I?  I  would  not  do  again  what  I  have  done  once."  He 
resumed  his  endless  walks  and  miscellaneous  studies,  making  every 
day  some  new  acquaintance  with  Nature,  though  as  yet  never  speak- 
ing of  zoology  or  botany,  since,  though  very  studious  of  natural  facts, 
he  was  incurious  of  technical  and  textual  science. 

At  this  time,  a  strong,  healthy  youth,  fresh  from  college,  whilst  all 
his  companions  were  choosing  their  profession,  or  eager  to  begin 
some  lucrative  employment,  it  was  inevitable  that  his  thoughts 
should  be  exercised  on  the  same  question,  and  it  required  rare  deci- 
sion to  refuse  all  the  accustomed  paths,  and  keep  his  solitary  freedom 
at  the  cost  of  disappointing  the  natural  expectations  of  his  family 
and  friends:  all  the  more  difficult  that  he  had  a  perfect  probity,  was 
exact  in  securing  his  own  independence,  and  in  holding  every  man  to 

355 


356  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

the  like  duty.  But  Thoreau  never  faltered.  He  was  a  born  protestant. 
He  declined  to  give  up  his  large  ambition  of  knowledge  and  action 
for  any  narrow  craft  or  profession,  aiming  at  a  much  more  compre- 
hensive calling,  the  art  of  living  well.  If  he  slighted  and  defied  the 
opinions  of  others,  it  was  only  that  he  was  more  intent  to  reconcile 
his  practice  with  his  own  belief.  Never  idle  or  self-indulgent,  he  pre- 
ferred, when  he  wanted  money,  earning  it  by  some  piece  of  manual 
labor  agreeable  to  him,  as  building  a  boat  or  a  fence,  planting,  draft- 
ing, surveying,  or  other  short  work,  to  any  long  engagements.  With 
his  hardy  habits  and  few  wants,  his  skill  in  wood-craft,  and  his  pow- 
erful arithmetic,  he  was  very  competent  to  live  in  any  part  of  the 
world.  It  would  cost  him  less  time  to  supply  his  wants  than  another. 
He  was  therefore  secure  of  his  leisure. 

A  natural  skill  for  mensuration,  growing  out  of  his  mathematical 
knowledge,  and  his  habit  of  ascertaining  the  measures  and  distances 
of  objects  which  interested  him,  the  size  of  trees,  the  depth  and  ex- 
tent of  ponds  and  rivers,  the  height  of  mountains,  and  the  air-line 
distance  of  his  favorite  summits,— this,  and  his  intimate  knowledge  of 
the  territory  about  Concord,  made  him  drift  into  the  profession  of 
land-surveyor.  It  had  the  advantage  for  him  that  it  led  him  continu- 
ally into  new  and  secluded  grounds,  and  helped  his  studies  of  Na- 
ture. His  accuracy  and  skill  in  this  work  were  readily  appreciated, 
and  he  found  all  the  employment  he  wanted. 

He  could  easily  solve  the  problems  of  the  surveyor,  but  he  was 
daily  beset  with  graver  questions,  which  he  manfully  confronted.  He 
interrogated  every  custom,  and  wished  to  settle  all  his  practice  on  an 
ideal  foundation.  He  was  a  protestant  a  outrance,  and  few  lives  con- 
tain so  many  renunciations.  He  was  bred  to  no  profession;  he  never 
married;  he  lived  alone;  he  never  went  to  church;  he  never  voted; 
he  refused  to  pay  a  tax  to  the  State;  he  ate  no  flesh,  he  drank  no  wine, 
he  never  knew  the  use  of  tobacco;  and,  though  a  naturalist,  he  used 
neither  trap  nor  gun.  He  chose,  wisely,  no  doubt,  for  himself,  to  be 
the  bachelor  of  thought  and  Nature.  He  had  no  talent  for  wealth, 
and  knew  how  to  be  poor  without  the  least  hint  of  squalor  or  inele- 
gance. Perhaps  he  fell  into  his  way  of  living  without  forecasting  it 
much,  but  approved  it  with  later  wisdom.  "I  am  often  reminded,"  he 
wrote  in  his  journal,  "that,  if  I  had  bestowed  on  me  the  wealth  of 
Crcesus,  my  aims  must  be  still  the  same,  and  my  means  essentially  the 
same."  He  had  no  temptations  to  fight  against,— no  appetites,  no  pas- 
sions, no  taste  for  elegant  trifles.  A  fine  house,  dress,  the  manners  and 
talk  of  highly  cultivated  people  were  all  thrown  away  on  him.  He 
much  preferred  a  good  Indian,  and  considered  these  refinements  as 


THOREAU  357 

impediments  to  conversation,  wishing  to  meet  his  companion  on  the 
simplest  terms.  He  declined  invitations  to  dinner-parties,  because 
there  each  was  in  every  one's  way,  and  he  could  not  meet  the  indi- 
viduals to  any  purpose.  "They  make  their  pride,"  he  said,  "in  mak- 
ing their  dinner  cost  much;  I  make  my  pride  in  making  my  dinner 
cost  little."  When  asked  at  table  what  dish  he  preferred,  he  answered, 
"The  nearest."  He  did  not  like  the  taste  of  wine,  and  never  had  a 
vice  in  his  life.  He  said,— "I  have  a  faint  recollection  of  pleasure  de- 
rived from  smoking  dried  lily-stems,  before  I  was  a  man.  I  had  com- 
monly a  supply  of  these.  I  have  never  smoked  anything  more  noxious." 

He  chose  to  be  rich  by  making  his  wants  few,  and  supplying  them 
himself.  In  his  travels,  he  used  the  railroad  only  to  get  over  so  much 
country  as  was  unimportant  to  the  present  purpose,  walking  hun- 
dreds of  miles,  avoiding  taverns,  buying  a  lodging  in  farmers'  and 
fishermen's  houses,  as  cheaper,  and  more  agreeable  to  him,  and  be- 
cause there  he  could  better  find  the  men  and  the  information  he 
wanted. 

There  was  somewhat  military  in  his  nature  not  to  be  subdued, 
always  manly  and  able,  but  rarely  tender,  as  if  he  did  not  feel  him- 
self except  in  opposition.  He  wanted  a  fallacy  to  expose,  a  blunder 
to  pillory,  I  may  say  required  a  little  sense  of  victory,  a  roll  of  the 
drum,  to  call  his  powers  into  full  exercise.  It  cost  him  nothing  to  say 
No;  indeed,  he  found  it  much  easier  than  to  say  Yes.  It  seemed  as  if 
his  first  instinct  on  hearing  a  proposition  was  to  controvert  it,  so  im- 
patient was  he  of  the  limitations  of  our  daily  thought.  This  habit,  of 
course,  is  a  little  chilling  to  the  social  affections;  and  though  the 
companion  would  in  the  end  acquit  him  of  any  malice  or  untruth, 
yet  it  mars  conversation.  Hence,  no  equal  companion  stood  in  affec- 
tionate relations  with  one  so  pure  and  guileless.  "I  love  Henry,"  said 
one  of  his  friends,  "but  I  cannot  like  him;  and  as  for  taking  his  arm, 
I  should  as  soon  think  of  taking  the  arm  of  an  elm-tree." 

Yet,  hermit  and  stoic  as  he  was,  he  was  really  fond  of  sympathy, 
and  threw  himself  heartily  and  childlike  into  the  company  of  young 
people  whom  he  loved,  and  whom  he  delighted  to  entertain,  as  he 
only  could,  with  the  varied  and  endless  anecdotes  of  his  experiences 
by  field  and  river.  And  he  was  always  ready  to  lead  a  huckleberry 
party  or  a  search  for  chestnuts  or  grapes.  Talking,  one  day,  of  a  pub- 
lic discourse,  Henry  remarked,  that  whatever  succeeded  with  the 
audience  was  bad.  I  said,  "Who  would  not  like  to  write  something 
which  all  can  read,  like  'Robinson  Crusoe'?  and  who  does  not  see  with 
regret  that  his  page  is  not  solid  with  a  right  materialistic  treatment, 
which  delights  everybody?"  Henry  objected,  of  course,  and  vaunted 


358  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

the  better  lectures  which  reached  only  a  few  persons.  But,  at  supper, 
a  young  girl,  understanding  that  he  was  to  lecture  at  the  Lyceum, 
sharply  asked  him,  "whether  his  lecture  would  be  a  nice,  interesting 
story,  such  as  she  wished  to  hear,  or  whether  it  was  one  of  those  old 
philosophical  things  that  she  did  not  care  about."  Henry  turned  to 
her,  and  bethought  himself,  and,  I  saw,  was  trying  to  believe  that  he 
had  matter  that  might  fit  her  and  her  brother,  who  were  to  sit  up 
and  go  to  the  lecture,  if  it  was  a  good  one  for  them. 

He  was  a  speaker  and  actor  of  the  truth,— born  such,— and  was  ever 
running  into  dramatic  situations  from  this  cause.  In  any  circum- 
stance, it  interested  all  bystanders  to  know  what  part  Henry  would 
take,  and  what  he  would  say;  and  he  did  not  disappoint  expectation, 
but  used  an  original  judgment  on  each  emergency.  In  1845  ne  built 
himself  a  small  framed  house  on  the  shores  of  Walden  Pond,  and 
lived  there  two  years  alone,  a  life  of  labor  and  study.  This  action  was 
quite  native  and  fit  for  him.  No  one  who  knew  him  would  tax  him 
with  affectation.  He  was  more  unlike  his  neighbors  in  his  thought 
than  in  his  action.  As  soon  as  he  had  exhausted  the  advantages  of 
that  solitude,  he  abandoned  it.  In  1847,  not  approving  some  uses  to 
which  the  public  expenditure  was  applied,  he  refused  to  pay  his  town 
tax,  and  was  put  in  jail.  A  friend  paid  the  tax  for  him,  and  he  was  re- 
leased. The  like  annoyance  was  threatened  the  next  year.  But,  as  his 
friends  paid  the  tax,  notwithstanding  his  protest,  I  believe  he  ceased 
to  resist.  No  opposition  or  ridicule  had  any  weight  with  him.  He 
coldly  and  fully  stated  his  opinion  without  affecting  to  believe  that 
it  was  the  opinion  of  the  company.  It  was  of  no  consequence,  if  every 
one  present  held  the  opposite  opinion.  On  one  occasion  he  went  to 
the  University  Library  to  procure  some  books.  The  librarian  re- 
fused to  lend  them.  Mr.  Thoreau  repaired  to  the  President,  who 
stated  to  him  the  rules  and  usages,  which  permitted  the  loan  of 
books  to  resident  graduates,  to  clergymen  who  were  alumni,  and  to 
some  others  resident  within  a  circle  of  ten  miles'  radius  from  the  Col- 
lege. Mr.  Thoreau  explained  to  the  President  that  the  railroad  had 
destroyed  the  old  scale  of  distances,— that  the  library  was  useless,  yes, 
and  President  and  College,  useless,  on  the  terms  of  his  rules,— that 
the  one  benefit  he  owed  to  the  College  was  its  library,— that,  at  this 
moment,  not  only  his  want  of  books  was  imperative,  but  he  wanted  a 
large  number  of  books,  and  assured  him  that  he,  Thoreau,  and  not 
the  librarian,  was  the  proper  custodian  of  these.  In  short,  the  Presi- 
dent found  the  petitioner  so  formidable,  and  the  rules  getting  to 
look  so  ridiculous,  that  he  ended  by  giving  him  a  privilege  which  in 
his  hands  proved  unlimited  thereafter. 


THOREAU  359 

No  truer  American  existed  than  Thoreau.  His  preference  of  his 
country  and  condition  was  genuine,  and  his  aversation  from  English 
and  European  manners  and  tastes  almost  reached  contempt.  He  lis- 
tened impatiently  to  news  or  bon  mots  gleaned  from  London  circles; 
and  though  he  tried  to  be  civil,  these  anecdotes  fatigued  him.  The 
men  were  all  imitating  each  other,  and  on  a  small  mould.  Why  can 
they  not  live  as  far  apart  as  possible,  and  each  be  a  man  by  himself? 
What  he  sought  was  the  most  energetic  nature;  and  he  wished  to  go 
to  Oregon,  not  to  London.  ''In  every  part  of  Great  Britain,"  he 
wrote  in  his  diary,  "are  discovered  traces  of  the  Romans,  their  fune- 
real urns,  their  camps,  their  roads,  their  dwellings.  But  New  Eng- 
land, at  least,  is  not  based  on  any  Roman  ruins.  We  have  not  to  lay 
the  foundations  of  our  houses  on  the  ashes  of  a  former  civilization." 

But,  idealist  as  he  was,  standing  for  abolition  of  slavery,  abolition 
of  tariffs,  almost  for  abolition  of  government,  it  is  needless  to  say  he 
found  himself  not  only  unrepresented  in  actual  politics,  but  almost 
equally  opposed  to  every  class  of  reformers.  Yet  he  paid  the  tribute 
of  his  uniform  respect  to  the  Anti-Slavery  Party.  One  man,  whose 
personal  acquaintance  he  had  formed,  he  honored  with  exceptional 
regard.  Before  the  first  friendly  word  had  been  spoken  for  Captain 
John  Brown,  after  the  arrest,  he  sent  notices  to  most  houses  in  Con- 
cord, that  he  would  speak  in  a  public  hall  on  the  condition  and  char- 
acter of  John  Brown,  on  Sunday  evening,  and  invited  all  people  to 
come.  The  Republican  Committee,  the  Abolitionist  Committee,  sent 
him  word  that  it  was  premature  and  not  advisable.  He  replied,— "I 
did  not  send  to  you  for  advice,  but  to  announce  that  I  am  to  speak." 
The  hall  was  filled  at  an  early  hour  by  people  of  all  parties,  and  his 
earnest  eulogy  of  the  hero  was  heard  by  all  respectfully,  by  many 
with  a  sympathy  that  surprised  themselves. 

It  was  said  of  Plotinus  that  he  was  ashamed  of  his  body,  and  'tis 
very  likely  he  had  good  reason  for  it,— that  his  body  was  a  bad  serv- 
ant, and  he  had  not  skill  in  dealing  with  the  material  world,  as 
happens  often  to  men  of  abstract  intellect.  But  Mr.  Thoreau  was 
equipped  with  a  most  adapted  and  serviceable  body.  He  was  of  short 
stature,  firmly  built,  of  light  complexion,  with  strong,  serious  blue 
eyes,  and  a  grave  aspect,— his  face  covered  in  the  late  years  with  a 
becoming  beard.  His  senses  were  acute,  his  frame  well-knit  and 
hardy,  his  hands  strong  and  skilful  in  the  use  of  tools.  And  there  wTas 
a  wonderful  fitness  of  body  and  mind.  He  could  pace  sixteen  rods 
more  accurately  than  another  man  could  measure  them  with  rod  and 
chain.  He  could  find  his  path  in  the  woods  at  night,  he  said,  better 
by  his  feet  than  his  eyes.  He  could  estimate  the  measure  of  a  tree 


360  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

very  well  by  his  eyes;  he  could  estimate  the  weight  of  a  calf  or  a  pig, 
like  a  dealer.  From  a  box  containing  a  bushel  or  more  of  loose  pen- 
cils, he  could  take  up  with  his  hands  fast  enough  just  a  dozen  pencils 
at  every  grasp.  He  was  a  good  swimmer,  runner,  skater,  boatman,  and 
would  probably  outwalk  most  countrymen  in  a  day's  journey.  And 
the  relation  of  body  to  mind  was  still  finer  than  we  have  indicated. 
He  said  he  wanted  every  stride  his  legs  made.  The  length  of  his  walk 
uniformly  made  the  length  of  his  writing.  If  shut  up  in  the  house,  he 
did  not  write  at  all. 

He  had  a  strong  common  sense,  like  that  which  Rose  Flammock, 
the  weaver's  daughter,  in  Scott's  romance,  commends  in  her  father, 
as  resembling  a  yardstick,  which,  whilst  it  measures  dowlas  and  dia- 
per, can  equally  well  measure  tapestry  and  cloth  of  gold.  He  had 
always  a  new  resource.  When  I  was  planting  forest-trees,  and  had 
procured  half  a  peck  of  acorns,  he  said  that  only  a  small  portion  of 
them  would  be  sound,  and  proceeded  to  examine  them,  and  select 
the  sound  ones.  But  finding  this  took  time,  he  said,  "I  think,  if  you 
put  them  all  into  water,  the  good  ones  will  sink";  which  experiment 
we  tried  with  success.  He  could  plan  a  garden,  or  a  house,  or  a  barn; 
would  have  been  competent  to  lead  a  "Pacific  Exploring  Expedi- 
tion"; could  give  judicious  counsel  in  the  gravest  private  or  public 
affairs. 

He  lived  for  the  day,  not  cumbered  and  mortified  by  his  memory. 
If  he  brought  you  yesterday  a  new  proposition,  he  would  bring  you 
to-day  another  not  less  revolutionary.  A  very  industrious  man,  and 
setting,  like  all  highly  organized  men,  a  high  value  on  his  time,  he 
seemed  the  only  man  of  leisure  in  town,  always  ready  for  any  excur- 
sion that  promised  well,  or  for  conversation  prolonged  into  late 
hours.  His  trenchant  sense  was  never  stopped  by  his  rules  of  daily 
prudence,  but  was  always  up  to  the  new  occasion.  He  liked  and  used 
the  simplest  food,  yet,  when  some  one  urged  a  vegetable  diet,  Tho- 
reau  thought  all  diets  a  very  small  matter,  saying  that  "the  man  who 
shoots  the  buffalo  lives  better  than  the  man  who  boards  at  the  Gra- 
ham House."  He  said,— "You  can  sleep  near  the  railroad,  and  never 
be  disturbed:  Nature  knows  very  well  what  sounds  are  worth  attend- 
ing to,  and  has  made  up  her  mind  not  to  hear  the  railroad-whistle. 
But  things  respect  the  devout  mind,  and  a  mental  ecstasy  was  never 
interrupted."  He  noted,  what  repeatedly  befell  him,  that,  after  re- 
ceiving from  a  distance  a  rare  plant,  he  would  presently  find  the 
same  in  his  own  haunts.  And  those  pieces  of  luck  which  happen  only 
to  good  players  happened  to  him.  One  day,  walking  with  a  stranger, 
who  inquired  where  Indian  arrow-heads  could  be  found,  he  replied, 


THOREAU  361 

"Everywhere,"  and,  stooping  forward,  picked  one  on  the  instant  from 
the  ground.  At  Mount  Washington,  in  Tuckerman's  Ravine,  Tho- 
reau  had  a  bad  fall,  and  sprained  his  foot.  As  he  was  in  the  act  of 
getting  up  from  his  fall,  he  saw  for  the  first  time  the  leaves  of  the 
Arnica  mollis. 

His  robust  common  sense,  armed  with  stout  hands,  keen  percep- 
tions, and  strong  will,  cannot  yet  account  for  the  superiority  which 
shone  in  his  simple  and  hidden  life.  I  must  add  the  cardinal  fact, 
that  there  was  an  excellent  wisdom  in  him,  proper  to  a  rare  class  of 
men,  which  showed  him  the  material  world  as  a  means  and  symbol. 
This  discovery,  which  sometimes  yields  to  poets  a  certain  casual  and 
interrupted  light,  serving  for  the  ornament  of  their  writing,  was  in 
him  an  unsleeping  insight;  and  whatever  faults  or  obstructions  of 
temperament  might  cloud  it,  he  was  not  disobedient  to  the  heav- 
enly vision.  In  his  youth,  he  said,  one  day,  "The  other  world  is  all 
my  art:  my  pencils  will  draw  no  other;  my  jack-knife  will  cut  noth- 
ing else;  I  do  not  use  it  as  a  means."  This  was  the  muse  and  genius 
that  ruled  his  opinions,  conversation,  studies,  work,  and  course  of 
life.  This  made  him  a  searching  judge  of  men.  At  first  glance  he 
measured  his  companion,  and,  though  insensible  to  some  fine  traits 
of  culture,  could  very  well  report  his  weight  and  calibre.  And  this 
made  the  impression  of  genius  which  his  conversation  often  gave. 

He  understood  the  matter  in  hand  at  a  glance,  and  saw  the  limita- 
tions and  poverty  of  those  he  talked  with,  so  that  nothing  seemed 
concealed  from  such  terrible  eyes.  I  have  repeatedly  known  young 
men  of  sensibility  converted  in  a  moment  to  the  belief  that  this  was 
the  man  they  were  in  search  of,  the  man  of  men,  who  could  tell  them 
all  they  should  do.  His  own  dealing  with  them  was  never  affection- 
ate, but  superior,  didactic,— scorning  their  petty  ways,— very  slowly 
conceding,  or  not  conceding  at  all,  the  promise  of  his  society  at  their 
houses,  or  even  at  his  own.  "Would  he  not  walk  with  them?"  "He 
did  not  know.  There  was  nothing  so  important  to  him  as  his  walk; 
he  had  no  walks  to  throw  away  on  company."  Visits  were  offered  him 
from  respectful  parties,  but  he  declined  them.  Admiring  friends  of- 
fered to  carry  him  at  their  own  cost  to  the  Yellow-Stone  River,— to 
the  West  Indies,— to  South  America.  But  though  nothing  could  be 
more  grave  or  considered  than  his  refusals,  they  remind  one  in  quite 
new  relations  of  that  fop  Brummel's  reply  to  the  gentleman  who 
offered  him  his  carriage  in  a  shower,  "But  where  will  you  ride, 
then?"— and  what  accusing  silences,  and  what  searching  and  irre- 
sistible speeches,  battering  down  all  defences,  his  companions  can 
remember! 


362  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

Mr.  Thoreau  dedicated  his  genius  with  such  entire  love  to  the 
fields,  hills,  and  waters  of  his  native  town,  that  he  made  them  known 
and  interesting  to  all  reading  Americans,  and  to  people  over  the  sea. 
The  river  on  whose  banks  he  was  born  and  died  he  knew  from  its 
springs  to  its  confluence  with  the  Merrimack.  He  had  made  summer 
and  winter  observations  on  it  for  many  years,  and  at  every  hour  of 
the  day  and  the  night.  The  result  of  the  recent  survey  of  the  Water 
Commissioners  appointed  by  the  State  of  Massachusetts  he  had 
reached  by  his  private  experiments,  several  years  earlier.  Every  fact 
which  occurs  in  the  bed,  on  the  banks,  or  in  the  air  over  it;  the  fishes, 
and  their  spawning  and  nests,  their  manners,  their  food;  the  shad- 
flies  which  fill  the  air  on  a  certain  evening  once  a  year,  and  which 
are  snapped  at  by  the  fishes  so  ravenously  that  many  of  these  die  of 
repletion;  the  conical  heaps  of  small  stones  on  the  river-shallows,  one 
of  which  heaps  will  sometimes  overfill  a  cart,— these  heaps  the  huge 
nests  of  small  fishes;  the  birds  which  frequent  the  stream,  heron, 
duck,  sheldrake,  loon,  osprey;  the  snake,  musk-rat,  otter,  woodchuck, 
and  fox,  on  the  banks;  the  turtle,  frog,  hyla,  and  cricket,  which  make 
the  banks  vocal,— were  all  known  to  him,  and,  as  it  were,  townsmen 
and  fellow-creatures;  so  that  he  felt  an  absurdity  or  violence  in  any 
narrative  of  one  of  these  by  itself  apart,  and  still  more  of  its  dimen- 
sions on  an  inch-rule,  or  in  the  exhibition  of  its  skeleton,  or  the 
specimen  of  a  squirrel  or  a  bird  in  brandy.  He  liked  to  speak  of  the 
manners  of  the  river,  as  itself  a  lawful  creature,  yet  with  exactness, 
and  always  to  an  observed  fact.  As  he  knew  the  river,  so  the  ponds  in 
this  region. 

One  of  the  weapons  he  used,  more  important  than  microscope  or 
alcohol-receiver  to  other  investigators,  was  a  whim  which  grew  on 
him  by  indulgence,  yet  appeared  in  gravest  statement,  namely,  of  ex- 
tolling his  own  town  and  neighborhood  as  the  most  favored  centre 
for  natural  observation.  He  remarked  that  the  Flora  of  Massachu- 
setts embraced  almost  all  the  important  plants  of  America,— most  of 
the  oaks,  most  of  the  willows,  the  best  pines,  the  ash,  the  maple,  the 
beech,  the  nuts.  He  returned  Kane's  "Arctic  Voyage"  to  a  friend  of 
whom  he  had  borrowed  it,  with  the  remark,  that  "most  of  the  phe- 
nomena noted  might  be  observed  in  Concord."  He  seemed  a  little 
envious  of  the  Pole,  for  the  coincident  sunrise  and  sunset,  of  five 
minutes'  day  after  six  months:  a  splendid  fact,  which  Annursnuc  had 
never  afforded  him.  He  found  red  snow  in  one  of  his  walks,  and  told 
me  that  he  expected  to  find  yet  the  Victoria  regia  in  Concord.  He 
was  the  attorney  of  the  indigenous  plants,  and  owned  to  a  preference 
of  the  weeds  to  the  imported  plants,  as  of  the  Indian  to  the  civilized 


THOREAU  363 

man,— and  noticed,  with  pleasure,  that  the  willow  bean-poles  of  his 
neighbor  had  grown  more  than  his  beans.  "See  these  weeds,"  he  said, 
"which  have  been  hoed  at  by  a  million  farmers  all  spring  and 
summer,  and  yet  have  prevailed,  and  just  now  come  out  triumphant 
over  all  lanes,  pastures,  fields,  and  gardens,  such  is  their  vigor.  We 
have  insulted  them  with  low  names,  too,— as  Pigweed,  Wormwood, 
Chickweed,  Shad-Blossom."  He  says,  "They  have  brave  names,  too,— 
Ambrosia,  Stellaria,  Amelanchia,  Amaranth,  etc." 

I  think  his  fancy  for  referring  everything  to  the  meridian  of  Con- 
cord did  not  grow  out  of  any  ignorance  or  depreciation  of  other 
longitudes  or  latitudes,  but  was  rather  a  playful  expression  of  his 
conviction  of  the  indifferency  of  all  places,  and  that  the  best  place  for 
each  is  where  he  stands.  He  expressed  it  once  in  this  wise:— "I  think 
nothing  is  to  be  hoped  from  you,  if  this  bit  of  mould  under  your  feet 
is  not  sweeter  to  you  to  eat  than  any  other  in  this  world,  or  in  any 
world." 

The  other  weapon  with  which  he  conquered  all  obstacles  in  sci- 
ence was  patience.  He  knew  how  to  sit  immovable,  a  part  of  the  rock 
he  rested  on,  until  the  bird,  the  reptile,  the  fish,  which  had  retired 
from  him,  should  come  back,  and  resume  its  habits,  nay,  moved  by 
curiosity,  should  come  to  him  and  watch  him. 

It  was  a  pleasure  and  a  privilege  to  walk  with  him.  He  knew  the 
country  like  a  fox  or  a  bird,  and  passed  through  it  as  freely  by  paths 
of  his  own.  He  knew  every  track  in  the  snow  or  on  the  ground,  and 
what  creature  had  taken  this  path  before  him.  One  must  submit  ab- 
jectly to  such  a  guide,  and  the  reward  was  great.  Under  his  arm  he 
carried  an  old  music-book  to  press  plants;  in  his  pocket,  his  diary 
and  pencil,  a  spy-glass  for  birds,  microscope,  jack-knife,  and  twine. 
He  wore  straw  hat,  stout  shoes,  strong  gray  trousers,  to  brave  shrub- 
oaks  and  smilax,  and  to  climb  a  tree  for  a  hawk's  or  a  squirrel's  nest. 
He  waded  into  the  pool  for  the  water-plants,  and  his  strong  legs  were 
no  insignificant  part  of  his  armor.  On  the  day  I  speak  of  he  looked 
for  the  Menyanthes,  detected  it  across  the  wide  pool,  and,  on  exami- 
nation of  the  florets,  decided  that  it  had  been  in  flower  five  days.  He 
drew  out  of  his  breast-pocket  his  diary,  and  read  the  names  of  all  the 
plants  that  should  bloom  on  this  day,  whereof  he  kept  account  as  a 
banker  when  his  notes  fall  due.  The  Cypripedium  not  due  till  to- 
morrow. He  thought,  that,  if  waked  up  from  a  trance,  in  this  swamp, 
he  could  tell  by  the  plants  what  time  of  the  year  it  was  within  two 
days.  The  redstart  was  flying  about,  and  presently  the  fine  grosbeaks, 
whose  brilliant  scarlet  makes  the  rash  gazer  wipe  his  eye,  and  whose 
fine  clear  note  Thoreau  compared  to  that  of  a  tanager  which  has  got 


364  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

rid  of  its  hoarseness.  Presently  he  heard  a  note  which  he  called  that 
of  the  night-warbler,  a  bird  he  had  never  identified,  had  been  in 
search  of  twelve  years,  which  always,  when  he  saw  it,  was  in  the  act  of 
diving  down  into  a  tree  or  bush,  and  which  it  was  vain  to  seek;  the 
only  bird  that  sings  indifferently  by  night  and  by  day.  I  told  him  he 
must  beware  of  finding  and  booking  it,  lest  life  should  have  nothing 
more  to  show  him.  He  said,  "What  you  seek  in  vain  for,  half  your 
life,  one  day  you  come  full  upon  all  the  family  at  dinner.  You  seek  it 
like  a  dream,  and  as  soon  as  you  'find  it  you  become  its  prey." 

His  interest  in  the  flower  or  the  bird  lay  very  deep  in  his  mind, 
was  connected  with  Nature,— and  the  meaning  of  Nature  was  never 
attempted  to  be  defined  by  him.  He  would  not  offer  a  memoir  of  his 
observations  to  the  Natural  History  Society.  "Why  should  I?  To  de- 
tach the  description  from  its  connections  in  my  mind  would  make  it 
no  longer  true  or  valuable  to  me:  and  they  do  not  wish  what  belongs 
to  it."  His  power  of  observation  seemed  to  indicate  additional  senses. 
He  saw  as  with  microscope,  heard  as  with  ear-trumpet,  and  his  mem- 
ory was  a  photographic  register  of  all  he  saw  and  heard.  And  yet  none 
knew  better  than  he  that  it  is  not  the  fact  that  imports,  but  the  im- 
pression or  effect  of  the  fact  on  your  mind.  Every  fact  lay  in  glory  in 
his  mind,  a  type  of  the  order  and  beauty  of  the  whole. 

His  determination  on  Natural  History  was  organic.  He  confessed 
that  he  sometimes  felt  like  a  hound  or  a  panther,  and,  if  born  among 
Indians,  would  have  been  a  fell  hunter.  But,  restrained  by  his  Massa- 
chusetts culture,  he  played  out  the  game  in  this  mild  form  of  botany 
and  ichthyology.  His  intimacy  with  animals  suggested  what  Thomas 
Fuller  records  of  Butler  the  apiologist,  that  "either  he  had  told  the 
bees  things  or  the  bees  had  told  him."  Snakes  coiled  round  his  leg; 
the  fishes  swam  into  his  hand,  and  he  took  them  out  of  the  water;  he 
pulled  the  woodchuck  out  of  its  hole  by  the  tail,  and  took  the  foxes 
under  his  protection  from  the  hunters.  Our  naturalist  had  perfect 
magnanimity;  he  had  no  secrets:  he  would  carry  you  to  the  heron's 
haunt,  or  even  to  his  most  prized  botanical  swamp,— possibly  know- 
ing that  you  could  never  find  it  again,  yet  willing  to  take  his  risks. 

No  college  ever  offered  him  a  diploma,  or  a  professor's  chair;  no 
academy  made  him  its  corresponding  secretary,  its  discoverer,  or 
even  its  member.  Perhaps  these  learned  bodies  feared  the  satire  of  his 
presence.  Yet  so  much  knowledge  of  Nature's  secret  and  genius  few 
others  possessed,  none  in  a  more  large  and  religious  synthesis.  For  not 
a  particle  of  respect  had  he  to  the  opinions  of  any  man  or  body  of 
men,  but  homage  solely  to  the  truth  itself;  and  as  he  discovered 
everywhere  among  doctors  some  leaning  of  courtesy,  it  discredited 


THOREAU  365 

them.  He  grew  to  be  revered  and  admired  by  his  townsmen,  who  had 
at  first  known  him  only  as  an  oddity.  The  farmers  who  employed  him 
as  a  surveyor  soon  discovered  his  rare  accuracy  and  skill,  his  knowl- 
edge of  their  lands,  of  trees,  of  birds,  of  Indian  remains,  and  the  like, 
which  enabled  him  to  tell  every  farmer  more  than  he  knew  before  of 
his  own  farm;  so  that  he  began  to  feel  as  if  Mr.  Thoreau  had  better 
rights  in  his  land  than  he.  They  felt,  too,  the  superiority  of  character 
which  addressed  all  men  with  a  native  authority. 

Indian  relics  abound  in  Concord,— arrow-heads,  stone  chisels, 
pestles,  and  fragments  of  pottery;  and  on  the  river-bank,  large  heaps 
of  clam-shells  and  ashes  mark  spots  which  the  savages  frequented. 
These,  and  every  circumstance  touching  the  Indian,  were  important 
in  his  eyes.  His  visits  to  Maine  were  chiefly  for  love  of  the  Indian.  He 
had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  the  manufacture  of  the  bark-canoe,  as 
well  as  of  trying  his  hand  in  its  management  on  the  rapids.  He  was 
inquisitive  about  the  making  of  the  stone  arrow-head,  and  in  his 
last  days  charged  a  youth  setting  out  for  the  Rocky  Mountains  to 
find  an  Indian  who  could  tell  him  that:  "It  was  well  worth  a  visit 
to  California  to  learn  it."  Occasionally,  a  small  party  of  Penobscot 
Indians  would  visit  Concord,  and  pitch  their  tents  for  a  few  weeks 
in  summer  on  the  river-bank.  He  failed  not  to  make  acquaintance 
with  the  best  of  them;  though  he  well  knew  that  asking  questions  of 
Indians  is  like  catechizing  beavers  and  rabbits.  In  his  last  visit  to 
Maine  he  had  great  satisfaction  from  Joseph  Polis,  an  intelligent 
Indian  of  Oldtown,  who  was  his  guide  for  some  weeks. 

He  was  equally  interested  in  every  natural  fact.  The  depth  of  his 
perception  found  likeness  of  law  throughout  Nature,  and  I  know 
not  any  genius  who  so  swiftly  inferred  universal  law  from  the  single 
fact.  He  was  no  pedant  of  a  department.  His  eye  was  open  to  beauty, 
and  his  ear  to  music.  He  found  these,  not  in  rare  conditions,  but 
wheresoever  he  went.  He  thought  the  best  of  music  was  in  single 
strains;  and  he  found  poetic  suggestion  in  the  humming  of  the 
telegraph-wire. 

His  poetry  might  be  bad  or  good;  he  no  doubt  wanted  a  lyric 
facility  and  technical  skill;  but  he  had  the  source  of  poetry  in  his 
spiritual  perception.  He  was  a  good  reader  and  critic,  and  his  judg- 
ment on  poetry  was  to  the  ground  of  it.  He  could  not  be  deceived  as 
to  the  presence  or  absence  of  the  poetic  element  in  any  composition, 
and  his  thirst  for  this  made  him  negligent  and  perhaps  scornful  of 
superficial  graces.  He  would  pass  by  many  delicate  rhythms,  but  he 
would  have  detected  every  live  stanza  or  line  in  a  volume,  and 
knew  very  well  where  to  find  an  equal  poetic  charm  in  prose.  He 


366  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

was  so  enamored  of  the  spiritual  beauty  that  he  held  all  actual 
written  poems  in  very  light  esteem  in  the  comparison.  He  admired 
iEschylus  and  Pindar;  but,  when  some  one  was  commending  them, 
he  said  that  "iEschylus  and  the  Greeks,  in  describing  Apollo  and 
Orpheus,  had  given  no  song,  or  no  good  one.  They  ought  not  to 
have  moved  trees,  but  to  have  chanted  to  the  gods  such  a  hymn  as 
would  have  sung  all  their  old  ideas  out  of  their  heads,  and  new 
ones  in."  His  own  verses  are  often  rude  and  defective.  The  gold  does 
not  yet  run  pure,  is  drossy  and  crude.  The  thyme  and  marjoram  are 
not  yet  honey.  But  if  he  want  lyric  fineness  and  technical  merits,  if 
he  have  not  the  poetic  temperament,  he  never  lacks  the  causal 
thought,  showing  that  his  genius  was  better  than  his  talent.  He 
knew  the  worth  of  the  Imagination  for  the  uplifting  and  consola- 
tion of  human  life,  and  liked  to  throw  every  thought  into  a  symbol. 
The  fact  that  you  tell  is  of  no  value,  but  only  the  impression.  For 
this  reason  his  presence  was  poetic,  always  piqued  the  curiosity  to 
know  more  deeply  the  secrets  of  his  mind.  He  had  many  reserves,  an 
unwillingness  to  exhibit  to  profane  eyes  what  was  still  sacred  in  his 
own,  and  knew  well  how  to  throw  a  poetic  veil  over  his  experience. 
All  readers  of  "Walden"  will  remember  his  mythical  record  of  his 
disappointments:  — 

"I  long  ago  lost  a  hound,  a  bay  horse,  and  a  turtle-dove,  and  am 
still  on  their  trail.  Many  are  the  travellers  I  have  spoken  to  concern- 
ing them,  describing  their  tracks,  and  what  calls  they  answer  to.  I 
have  met  one  or  two  who  had  heard  the  hound,  and  the  tramp  of  the 
horse,  and  even  seen  the  dove  disappear  behind  a  cloud;  and  they 
seemed  as  anxious  to  recover  them  as  if  they  had  lost  them  them- 
selves." 

His  riddles  were  worth  the  reading,  and  I  confide,  that,  if  at  any 
time  I  do  not  understand  the  expression,  it  is  yet  just.  Such  was  the 
wealth  of  his  truth  that  it  was  not  worth  his  while  to  use  words  in 
vain.  His  poem  entitled  "Sympathy"  reveals  the  tenderness  under 
that  triple  steel  of  stoicism,  and  the  intellectual  subtilty  it  could 
animate.  His  classic  poem  on  "Smoke"  suggests  Simonides,  but  is 
better  than  any  poem  of  Simonides.  His  biography  is  in  his  verses. 
His  habitual  thought  makes  all  his  poetry  a  hymn  to  the  Cause  of 
causes,  the  Spirit  which  vivifies  and  controls  his  own. 

"I  hearing  get,  who  had  but  ears, 
And  sight,  who  had  but  eyes  before; 
I  moments  live,  who  lived  but  years, 
And  truth  discern,  who  knew  but  learning's  lore." 


THOREAU  367 

And  still  more  in  these  religious  lines:  — 

"Now  chiefly  is  my  natal  hour, 
And  only  now  my  prime  of  life; 
I  will  not  doubt  the  love  untold, 
Which  not  my  worth  or  want  hath  bought, 
Which  wooed  me  young,  and  wooes  me  old, 
And  to  this  evening  hath  me  brought." 

Whilst  he  used  in  his  writings  a  certain  petulance  of  remark  in 
reference  to  churches  or  churchmen,  he  was  a  person  of  a  rare, 
tender,  and  absolute  religion,  a  person  incapable  of  any  profanation, 
by  act  or  by  thought.  Of  course,  the  same  isolation  which  belonged 
to  his  original  thinking  and  living  detached  him  from  the  social  re- 
ligious forms.  This  is  neither  to  be  censured  nor  regretted.  Aristotle 
long  ago  explained  it,  when  he  said,  "One  who  surpasses  his  fellow- 
citizens  in  virtue  is  no  longer  a  part  of  the  city.  Their  law  is  not  for 
him,  since  he  is  a  law  to  himself." 

Thoreau  was  sincerity  itself,  and  might  fortify  the  convictions  of 
prophets  in  the  ethical  laws  by  his  holy  living.  It  was  an  affirmative 
experience  which  refused  to  be  set  aside.  A  truth-speaker  he,  capa- 
ble of  the  most  deep  and  strict  conversation;  a  physician  to  the 
wounds  of  any  soul;  a  friend,  knowing  not  only  the  secret  of  friend- 
ship, but  almost  worshipped  by  those  few  persons  who  resorted  to 
him  as  their  confessor  and  prophet,  and  knew  the  deep  value  of  his 
mind  and  great  heart.  He  thought  that  without  religion  or  devo- 
tion of  some  kind  nothing  great  was  ever  accomplished:  and  he 
thought  that  the  bigoted  sectarian  had  better  bear  this  in  mind. 

His  virtues,  of  course,  sometimes  ran  into  extremes.  It  was  easy  to 
trace  to  the  inexorable  demand  on  all  for  exact  truth  that  austerity 
which  made  this  willing  hermit  more  solitary  even  than  he  wished. 
Himself  of  a  perfect  probity,  he  required  not  less  of  others.  He  had 
a  disgust  at  crime,  and  no  worldly  success  could  cover  it.  He  de- 
tected paltering  as  readily  in  dignified  and  prosperous  persons  as 
in  beggars,  and  with  equal  scorn.  Such  dangerous  frankness  was  in 
his  dealing  that  his  admirers  called  him  "that  terrible  Thoreau,"  as 
if  he  spoke  when  silent,  and  was  still  present  when  he  had  departed. 
I  think  the  severity  of  his  ideal  interfered  to  deprive  him  of  a  healthy 
sufficiency  of  human  society. 

The  habit  of  a  realist  to  find  things  the  reverse  of  their  appear- 
ance inclined  him  to  put  every  statement  in  a  paradox.  A  certain 
habit  of  antagonism  defaced  his  earlier  writings,— a  trick  of  rhetoric 


368  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

not  quite  outgrown  in  his  later,  of  substituting  for  the  obvious  word 
and  thought  its  diametrical  opposite.  He  praised  wild  mountains 
and  winter  forests  for  their  domestic  air,  in  snow  and  ice  he  would 
find  sultriness,  and  commended  the  wilderness  for  resembling  Rome 
and  Paris.  "It  was  so  dry,  that  you  might  call  it  wet." 

The  tendency  to  magnify  the  moment,  to  read  all  the  laws  of 
Nature  in  the  one  object  or  one  combination  under  your  eye,  is  of 
course  comic  to  those  who  do  not  share  the  philosopher's  perception 
of  identity.  To  him  there  was  no  such  thing  as  size.  The  pond  was  a 
small  ocean;  the  Atlantic,  a  large  Walden  Pond.  He  referred  every 
minute  fact  to  cosmical  laws.  Though  he  meant  to  be  just,  he  seemed 
haunted  by  a  certain  chronic  assumption  that  the  science  of  the  day 
pretended  completeness,  and  he  had  just  found  out  that  the  savans 
had  neglected  to  discriminate  a  particular  botanical  variety,  had 
failed  to  describe  the  seeds  or  count  the  sepals.  "That  is  to  say/'  we 
replied,  "the  blockheads  were  not  born  in  Concord;  but  who  said 
they  were?  It  was  their  unspeakable  misfortune  to  be  born  in  Lon- 
don, or  Paris,  or  Rome;  but,  poor  fellows,  they  did  what  they  could, 
considering  that  they  never  saw  Bateman's  Pond,  or  Nine-Acre  Cor- 
ner, or  Becky-Stow's  Swamp.  Besides,  what  were  you  sent  into  the 
world  for,  but  to  add  this  observation?" 

Had  his  genius  been  only  contemplative,  he  had  been  fitted  to  his 
life,  but  with  his  energy  and  practical  ability  he  seemed  born  for 
great  enterprise  and  for  command;  and  I  so  much  regret  the  loss  of 
his  rare  powers  of  action,  that  I  cannot  help  counting  it  a  fault  in  him 
that  he  had  no  ambition.  Wanting  this,  instead  of  engineering  for  all 
America,  he  was  the  captain  of  a  huckleberry  party.  Pounding  beans 
is  good  to  the  end  of  pounding  empires  one  of  these  days;  but  if  at 
the  end  of  years,  it  is  still  only  beans! 

But  these  foibles,  real  or  apparent,  were  fast  vanishing  in  the  in- 
cessant growth  of  a  spirit  so  robust  and  wise,  and  which  effaced  its 
defeats  with  new  triumphs.  His  study  of  Nature  was  a  perpetual 
ornament  to  him,  and  inspired  his  friends  with  curiosity  to  see  the 
world  through  his  eyes,  and  to  hear  his  adventures.  They  possessed 
every  kind  of  interest. 

He  had  many  elegances  of  his  own,  whilst  he  scoffed  at  conven- 
tional elegance.  Thus,  he  could  not  bear  to  hear  the  sound  of  his 
own  steps,  the  grit  of  gravel;  and  therefore  never  willingly  walked 
in  the  road,  but  in  the  grass,  on  mountains  and  in  woods.  His  senses 
were  acute,  and  he  remarked  that  by  night  every  dwelling-house 
gives  out  bad  air,  like  a  slaughter-house.  He  liked  the  pure  fragrance 
of  melilot.  He  honored  certain  plants  with  special  regard,  and,  over 


THOREAU  369 

all,  the  pond-lily,— then,  the  gentian,  and  the  Mikania  scandens,  and 
"life-everlasting,"  and  a  bass-tree  which  he  visited  every  year  when  it 
bloomed,  in  the  middle  of  July.  He  thought  the  scent  a  more  orac- 
ular inquisition  than  the  sight,— more  oracular  and  trustworthy. 
The  scent,  of  course,  reveals  what  is  concealed  from  the  other  senses. 
By  it  he  detected  earthiness.  He  delighted  in  echoes,  and  said  they 
were  almost  the  only  kind  of  kindred  voices  that  he  heard.  He  loved 
Nature  so  well,  was  so  happy  in  her  solitude,  that  he  became  very 
jealous  of  cities,  and  the  sad  work  which  their  refinements  and 
artifices  made  with  man  and  his  dwelling.  The  axe  was  always  de- 
stroying his  forest.  "Thank  God,"  he  said,  "they  cannot  cut  down 
the  clouds!"  "All  kinds  of  figures  are  drawn  on  the  blue  ground 
with  this  fibrous  white  paint." 

I  subjoin  a  few  sentences  taken  from  his  unpublished  manuscripts, 
not  only  as  records  of  his  thought  and  feeling,  but  for  their  power  of 
description  and  literary  excellence. 

"Some  circumstantial  evidence  is  very  strong,  as  when  you  find  a 
trout  in  the  milk." 

"The  chub  is  a  soft  fish,  and  tastes  like  boiled  brown  paper  salted." 

"The  youth  gets  together  his  materials  to  build  a  bridge  to  the 
moon,  or,  perchance,  a  palace  or  temple  on  the  earth,  and  at  length 
the  middle-aged  man  concludes  to  build  a  wood-shed  with  them." 

"The  locust  z-ing." 

"Devil's-needles  zigzagging  along  the  Nut-Meadow  brook." 

"Sugar  is  not  so  sweet  to  the  palate  as  sound  to  the  healthy  ear." 

"I  put  on  some  hemlock-boughs,  and  the  rich  salt  crackling  of 
their  leaves  was  like  mustard  to  the  ear,  the  crackling  of  uncount- 
able regiments.  Dead  trees  love  the  fire." 

"The  bluebird  carries  the  sky  on  his  back." 

"The  tanager  flies  through  the  green  foliage  as  if  it  wrould  ignite 
the  leaves." 

"If  I  wish  for  a  horse-hair  for  my  compass-sight,  I  must  go  to  the 
stable;  but  the  hair-bird,  with  her  sharp  eyes,  goes  to  the  road." 

"Immortal  water,  alive  even  to  the  superficies." 

"Fire  is  the  most  tolerable  third  party." 

"Nature  made  ferns  for  pure  leaves,  to  show  what  she  could  do 
in  that  line." 

"No  tree  has  so  fair  a  bole  and  so  handsome  an  instep  as  the 
beech." 

"How  did  these  beautiful  rainbow-tints  get  into  the  shell  of  the 
fresh-water  clam,  buried  in  the  mud  at  the  bottom  of  our  dark 
river?" 


370  RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

"Hard  are  the  times  when  the  infant's  shoes  are  second-foot." 

"We  are  strictly  confined  to  our  men  to  whom  we  give  liberty." 

"Nothing  is  so  much  to  be  feared  as  fear.  Atheism  may  compara- 
tively be  popular  with  God  himself." 

"Of  what  significance  the  things  you  can  forget?  A  little  thought 
is  sexton  to  all  the  world." 

"How  can  we  expect  a  harvest  of  thought  who  have  not  had  a 
seed-time  of  character?" 

"Only  he  can  be  trusted  with  gifts  who  can  present  a  face  of 
bronze  to  expectations." 

"I  ask  to  be  melted.  You  can  only  ask  of  the  metals  that  they  be 
tender  to  the  fire  that  melts  them.  To  nought  else  can  they  be 
tender." 

There  is  a  flower  known  to  botanists,  one  of  the  same  genus  with 
our  summer  plant  called  "Life-Everlasting,"  a  Gnaphalium  like  that 
which  grows  on  the  most  inaccessible  cliffs  of  the  Tyrolese  moun- 
tains, where  the  chamois  dare  hardly  venture,  and  which  the  hunter, 
tempted  by  its  beauty,  and  by  his  love  (for  it  is  immensely  valued  by 
the  Swiss  maidens),  climbs  the  cliffs  to  gather,  and  is  sometimes 
found  dead  at  the  foot,  with  the  flower  in  his  hand.  It  is  called  by 
botanists  the  Gnaphalium  leontopodium,  but  by  the  Swiss  Edel- 
weisse,  which  signifies  Noble  Purity.  Thoreau  seemed  to  me  living  in 
the  hope  to  gather  this  plant,  which  belonged  to  him  of  right.  The 
scale  on  which  his  studies  proceeded  was  so  large  as  to  require 
longevity,  and  we  were  the  less  prepared  for  his  sudden  disappear- 
ance. The  country  knows  not  yet,  or  in  the  least  part,  how  great  a 
son  it  has  lost.  It  seems  an  injury  that  he  should  leave  in  the  midst 
his  broken  task,  which  none  else  can  finish,— a  kind  of  indignity  to 
so  noble  a  soul,  that  it  should  depart  out  of  Nature  before  yet  he  has 
been  really  shown  to  his  peers  for  what  he  is.  But  he,  at  least,  is  con- 
tent. His  soul  was  made  for  the  noblest  society;  he  had  in  a  short 
life  exhausted  the  capabilities  of  this  world;  wherever  there  is  knowl- 
edge, wherever  there  is  virtue,  wherever  there  is  beauty,  he  will 
find  a  home. 


The  Swamp  Fox 


BY  WILLIAM  GILMORE  SIMMS 


We  follow  where  the  Swamp  Fox  guides, 

His  friends  and  merry  men  are  we; 
And  when  the  troop  of  Tarleton  rides, 

We  burrow  in  the  cypress-tree. 
The  turfy  hummock  is  our  bed, 

Our  home  is  in  the  red  deer's  den, 
Our  roof,  the  tree-top  overhead, 

For  we  are  wild  and  hunted  men. 

We  fly  by  day  and  shun  its  light, 

But,  prompt  to  strike  the  sudden  blow, 
We  mount  and  start  with  early  night, 

And  through  the  forest  track  our  foe. 
And  soon  he  hears  our  chargers  leap, 

The  flashing  sabre  blinds  his  eyes, 
And  ere  he  drives  away  his  sleep, 

And  rushes  from  his  camp,  he  dies. 

Free  bridle-bit,  good  gallant  steed, 

That  will  but  ask  a  kind  caress 
To  swim  the  Santee  at  our  need, 

When  on  his  heels  the  foemen  press,— 
The  true  heart  and  the  ready  hand, 

The  spirit  stubborn  to  be  free, 
The  twisted  bore,  the  smiting  brand,— 

And  we  are  Marions  men,  you  see. 

Now  light  the  fire  and  cook  the  meal, 
The  last  perhaps  that  we  shall  taste; 

I  hear  the  Swamp  Fox  round  us  steal. 
And  that's  a  sign  we  move  in  haste. 

371 


372  WILLIAM  GILMORE  SIMMS 

He  whistles  to  the  scouts,  and  hark! 

You  hear  his  order  calm  and  low. 
Come,  wave  your  torch  across  the  dark, 

And  let  us  see  the  hoys  that  go. 

We  may  not  see  their  forms  again, 

God  help  'em,  should  they  find  the  strife! 
For  they  are  strong  and  fearless  men, 

And  make  no  coward  terms  for  life. 
They'll  fight  as  long  as  Marion  bids, 

And  when  he  speaks  the  word  to  shy, 
Then,  not  till  then,  they  turn  their  steeds, 

Through  thickening  shade  and  swamp  to  fly. 

Now  stir  the  fire  and  lie  at  ease  — 

The  scouts  are  gone,  and  on  the  brush 
I  see  the  Colonel  bend  his  knee, 

To  take  his  slumbers  too.  But  hush! 
He's  praying,  comrades;  'tis  not  strange; 

The  man  that's  fighting  day  by  day 
May  well,  when  night  comes,  take  a  change, 

And  down  upon  his  knees  to  pray. 

Break  up  that  hoe-cake,  boys,  and  hand 

The  sly  and  silent  jug  that's  there; 
I  love  not  it  should  idly  stand 

When  Marion's  men  have  need  of  cheer. 
'Tis  seldom  that  our  luck  affords 

A  stuff  like  this  we  just  have  quaffed, 
And  dry  potatoes  on  our  boards 

May  always  call  for  such  a  draft. 

Now  pile  the  brush  and  roll  the  log; 

Hard  pillow,  but  a  soldier's  head 
That's  half  the  time  in  brake  and  bog 

Must  never  think  of  softer  bed. 
The  owl  is  hooting  to  the  night, 

The  cooter  crawling  o'er  the  bank, 
And  in  that  pond  the  flashing  light 

Tells  where  the  alligator  sank. 

What!  'tis  the  signal!  start  so  soon, 
And  through  the  Santee  swamp  so  deep, 


THE  SWAMP  FOX  373 

Without  the  aid  of  friendly  moon, 

And  we,  Heaven  help  us!  half  asleep! 
But  courage,  comrades,  Marion  leads. 

The  Swamp  Fox  takes  us  out  tonight; 
So  clear  your  swords  and  spur  your  steeds, 

There's  goodly  chance,  I  think,  of  fight. 

We  follow  where  the  Swamp  Fox  guides, 

We  leave  the  swamp  and  cypress-tree, 
Our  spurs  are  in  our  coursers'  sides, 

And  ready  for  the  strife  are  we. 
The  Tory  camp  is  now  in  sight, 

And  there  he  cowers  within  his  den. 
He  hears  our  shouts,  he  dreads  the  fight, 

He  fears,  and  flies  from  Marions  men. 


The  Pelican's  Shadow 


BY  MARJORIE  KINNAN  RAWLINGS 


The  lemon-colored  awning  over  the  terrace  swelled  in  the  south- 
easterly breeze  from  the  ocean.  Dr.  Tifton  had  chosen  lemon  so 
that  when  the  hungry  Florida  sun  had  fed  on  the  canvas  the  color 
would  still  be  approximately  the  same. 

"Being  practical  on  one's  honeymoon/'  he  had  said  to  Elsa, 
"stabilizes  one's  future." 

At  the  moment  she  had  thought  it  would  have  been  nicer  to  say 
"our"  honeymoon  and  "our"  future,  but  she  had  dismissed  it  as 
another  indication  of  her  gift  for  critical  analysis,  which  her  husband 
considered  unfortunate. 

"I  am  the  scientist  of  the  family,  my  mouse,"  he  said  often.  "Let 
me  do  the  analyzing.  I  want  you  to  develop  all  your  latent  femininity." 

Being  called  "my  mouse"  was  probably  part  of  the  development. 
It  had  seemed  quite  sweet  at  the  beginning,  but  repetition  had  made 
the  mouse  feel  somehow  as  though  the  fur  were  being  worn  off  in 
patches. 

Elsa  leaned  back  in  the  long  beach  chair  and  let  the  magazine  con- 
taining her  husband's  new  article  drop  to  the  rough  coquina  paving 
of  the  terrace.  Howard  did  express  himself  with  an  exquisite  pre- 
cision. The  article  was  a  gem,  just  scientific  enough,  just  humorous, 
just  human  enough  to  give  the  impression  of  a  choice  mind  back  of 
it.  It  was  his  semi-scientific  writings  that  had  brought  them  together. 

Fresh  from  college,  she  had  tumbled,  butter  side  up,  into  a  job  as 
assistant  to  the  feature  editor  of  Home  Life.  Because  of  her  enthu- 
siasm for  the  Tifton  series  of  articles,  she  had  been  allowed  to  handle 
the  magazine's  correspondence  with  him.  He  had  written  her,  on  her 
letter  of  acceptance  of  "Algae  and  Their  Human  Brothers": 

My  dear  Miss  Whittington: 

Fancy  a  woman's  editor  being  appealed  to  by  my  algae!  Will  you 
have  tea  with  me,  so  that  my  eyes,  accustomed  to  the  microscope, 

374 


THE  PELICAN'S  SHADOW  375 

may  feast  themselves  on  a  femme  du  monde  who  recognizes  not  only 
that  science  is  important  but  that  in  the  proper  hands  it  may  be 
made  important  even  to  those  little  fire-lit  circles  of  domesticity  for 
which  your  publication  is  the  raison  d'etre! 

She  had  had  tea  with  him,  and  he  had  proved  as  distinguished  as 
his  articles.  He  was  not  handsome.  He  was,  in  fact,  definitely  tubby. 
His  hair  was  steel-gray  and  he  wore  gray  tweed  suits,  so  that,  for  all 
his  squattiness,  the  effect  was  smoothly  sharp.  His  age,  forty-odd,  was 
a  part  of  his  distinction.  He  had  marriage,  it  appeared,  in  the  back 
of  his  mind.  He  informed  her  with  engaging  frankness  that  his  wife 
must  be  young  and  therefore  malleable.  His  charm,  his  prestige,  were 
irresistible.  The  "union,"  as  he  called  it,  had  followed  quickly,  and 
of  course  she  had  dropped  her  meaningless  career  to  give  a  feminine 
backing  to  his  endeavors,  scientific  and  literary. 

"It  is  not  enough,"  he  said,  "to  be  a  scientist.  One  must  also  be 
articulate." 

He  was  immensely  articulate.  No  problem,  from  the  simple  ones 
of  a  fresh  matrimony  to  the  involved  matters  of  his  studies  and  his 
writings,  found  him  without  an  expression. 

"Howard  intellectualizes  about  everything,"  she  wrote  her  former 
editor,  May  Morrow,  from  her  honeymoon.  She  felt  a  vague  disloy- 
alty as  she  wrote  it,  for  it  did  not  convey  his  terrific  humanity. 

"A  man  is  a  man  first,"  he  said,  "and  then  a  scientist." 

His  science  took  care  of  itself,  in  his  capable  hands.  It  was  his  man- 
hood that  occupied  her  energies.  Not  his  male  potency— which  again 
took  care  of  itself,  with  no  particular  concern  for  her  own  needs— but 
all  the  elaborate  mechanism  that,  to  him,  made  up  the  substance  of 
a  man's  life.  Hollandaise  sauce,  for  instance.  He  had  a  passion  for 
hollandaise,  and  like  his  microscopic  studies,  like  his  essays,  it  must 
be  perfect.  She  looked  at  her  wristwatch.  It  was  his  wedding  gift.  She 
would  have  liked  something  delicate  and  diamond-studded  and 
feminine,  something  suitable  for  "the  mouse,"  but  he  had  chosen  a 
large,  plain-faced  gold  Hamilton  of  railroad  accuracy.  It  was  six 
o'clock.  It  was  not  time  for  the  hollandaise,  but  it  was  time  to  check 
up  on  Jones,  the  manservant  and  cook.  Jones  had  a  trick  of  boiling 
the  vegetables  too  early,  so  that  they  lay  limply  under  the  hollan- 
daise instead  of  standing  up  firm  and  decisive.  She  stirred  in  the 
beach  chair  and  picked  up  the  magazine.  It  would  seem  as  though 
she  were  careless,  indifferent  to  his  achievements,  if  he  found  it 
sprawled  on  the  coquina  instead  of  arranged  on  top  of  the  copies  of 
Fortune  on  the  red  velvet  fire  seat. 


376  MARJORIE  KINNAN   RAWLINGS 

She  gave  a  start.  A  shadow  passed  between  the  terrace  and  the 
ocean.  It  flapped  along  on  the  sand  with  a  reality  greater  than  what- 
ever  cast  the  shadow.  She  looked  out  from  under  the  awning.  One 
of  those  obnoxious  pelicans  was  flapping  slowly  down  the  coast.  She 
felt  an  unreasonable  irritation  at  sight  of  the  thick,  hunched  shoul- 
ders, the  out-of-proportion  wings,  the  peculiar  contour  of  the  head, 
lifting  at  the  back  to  something  of  a  peak.  She  could  not  understand 
why  she  so  disliked  the  birds.  They  were  hungry,  they  searched  out 
their  food,  they  moved  and  mated  like  every  living  thing.  They 
were  basically  drab,  like  most  human  beings,  but  all  that  was  no 
reason  for  giving  a  slight  shudder  when  one  passed  over  the  lemon- 
colored  awning  and  winged  its  self-satisfied  way  down  the  Florida 
coastline. 

She  rose  from  the  beach  chair,  controlling  her  annoyance.  Howard 
was  not  sensitive  to  her  moods,  for  which  she  was  grateful,  but  she 
had  found  that  the  inexplicable  crossness  which  sometimes  seized  her 
made  her  unduly  sensitive  to  his.  As  she  feared,  Jones  had  started 
the  cauliflower  ahead  of  time.  It  was  only  just  in  the  boiling  water,  so 
she  snatched  it  out  and  plunged  it  in  ice  water. 

'Tut  the  cauliflower  in  the  boiling  water  at  exactly  six-thirty,"  she 
said  to  Jones. 

As  Howard  so  wisely  pointed  out,  most  of  the  trouble  with  serv- 
ants lay  in  not  giving  exact  orders. 

"If  servants  knew  as  much  as  you  do,"  he  said,  "they  would  not 
be  working  for  you.  Their  minds  are  vague.  That  is  why  they  are 
servants." 

Whenever  she  caught  herself  being  vague,  she  had  a  moment's  un- 
happy feeling  that  she  should  probably  have  been  a  lady's  maid.  It 
would  at  least  have  been  a  preparation  for  matrimony.  Turning  now 
from  the  cauliflower,  she  wondered  if  marriage  always  laid  these 
necessities  for  exactness  on  a  woman.  Perhaps  all  men  were  not  con- 
cerned with  domestic  precision.  She  shook  off  the  thought,  with  the 
sense  of  disloyalty  that  always  stabbed  her  when  she  was  critical.  As 
Howard  said,  a  household  either  ran  smoothly,  with  the  mechanism 
hidden,  or  it  clanked  and  jangled.  No  one  wanted  clanking  and 
jangling. 

She  went  to  her  room  to  comb  her  hair  and  powder  her  face  and 
freshen  her  lipstick.  Howard  liked  her  careful  grooming.  He  was 
himself  immaculate.  His  gray  hair  smoothed  back  over  his  scientist's 
head  that  lifted  to  a  little  peak  in  the  back,  his  gray  suits,  even  his 
gray  pajamas  were  incredibly  neat,  as  smooth  and  trim  as  feathers. 

She  heard  the  car  on  the  shell  drive  and  went  to  meet  him.  He  had 


THE  PELICAN'S  SHADOW  377 

brought  the  mail  from  the  adjacent  city,  where  he  had  the  use  of  a 
laboratory. 

"A  ghost  from  the  past,"  he  said  sententiously,  and  handed  her  a 
letter  from  Home  Life. 

He  kissed  her  with  a  longer  clinging  than  usual,  so  that  she 
checked  the  date  in  her  mind.  Two  weeks  ago— yes,  this  was  his  eve- 
ning to  make  love  to  her.  Their  months  of  marriage  were  marked  off 
into  two-week  periods  as  definitely  as  though  the  /  line  on  the  type- 
writer cut  through  them.  He  drew  off  from  her  with  disapproval  if 
she  showed  fondness  between  a  /  and  a  /.  She  went  to  the  living 
room  to  read  her  letter  from  May  Morrow. 

Dear  Elsa: 

Your  beach  house  sounds  altogether  too  idyllic.  What  previous 
incarnated  suffering  has  licenced  you  to  drop  into  an  idyll?  And  so 
young  in  life.  Well,  maybe  I'll  get  mine  next  time. 

As  you  can  imagine,  there  have  been  a  hundred  people  after  your 
job.  The  Collins  girl  that  I  rushed  into  it  temporarily  didn't  work 
out  at  all,  and  I  was  beginning  to  despair  when  Jane  Maxe,  from 
Woman's  Outlook,  gave  me  a  ring  and  said  she  was  fed  up  with  their 
politics  and  would  come  to  us  if  the  job  was  permanent.  I  assured 
her  that  it  was  hers  until  she  had  to  be  carried  out  on  her  shield. 
You  see,  I  know  your  young  type.  You've  burned  your  bridges  and 
set  out  to  be  A  Good  Wife,  and  hell  will  freeze  before  you  quit  any- 
thing you  tackle. 

Glad  the  Distinguished  Spouse  proves  as  clever  in  daily  conversa- 
tion as  in  print.  Have  you  had  time  to  notice  that  trick  writers  have 
of  saying  something  neat,  recognizing  it  at  once  as  a  precious  nut  to 
be  stored,  then  bringing  it  out  later  in  the  long  hard  winter  of  lit- 
erary composition?  You  will.  Drop  me  a  line.  I  wonder  about  things 
sometimes. 

May 

She  wanted  to  sit  down  at  the  portable  at  once,  but  Dr.  Tifton 
came  into  the  room. 

'Til  have  my  shower  later,"  he  said,  and  rolled  his  round  gray  eyes 
with  meaning. 

His  mouth,  she  noticed,  made  a  long,  thin  line  that  gave  the  im- 
pression of  a  perpetual  half-smile.  She  mixed  the  Martinis  and  he 
sipped  his  with  appreciation.  He  had  a  smug  expectancy  that  she 
recognized  from  her  brief  dealings  with  established  authors.  He  wras 
waiting  for  her  favorable  comment  on  his  article. 


378  MARJORIE  KINNAN  RAWLINGS 

"Your  article  was  grand,"  she  said.  "If  I  were  still  an  editor,  I'd 
have  grabbed  it." 

He  lifted  his  eyebrows.  "Of  course,"  he  said,  "editors  were  grab- 
bing my  articles  before  I  knew  you."  He  added  complacently,  "And 
after." 

"I  mean,"  she  said  uncomfortably,  "that  an  editor  can  only  judge 
things  by  her  own  acceptance." 

"An  editor?"  He  looked  sideways  at  her.  His  eye  seemed  to  have 
the  ability  to  focus  backward.  "And  what  does  a  wife  think  of  my 
article?" 

She  laughed.  "Oh,  a  wife  thinks  that  anything  you  do  is  perfect." 
She  added,  "Isn't  that  what  wives  are  for?" 

She  regretted  the  comment  immediately,  but  he  was  bland. 

"I  really  think  I  gave  the  effect  I  wanted,"  he  said.  "Science  is  of 
no  use  to  the  layman  unless  it's  humanized." 

They  sipped  the  Martinis. 

"I'd  like  to  have  you  read  it  aloud,"  he  said,  studying  his  glass 
casually.  "One  learns  things  from  another's  reading." 

She  picked  up  the  magazine  gratefully.  The  reading  would  fill 
nicely  the  time  between  cocktails  and  dinner. 

"It  really  gives  the  effect,  doesn't  it?"  he  said  when  she  had  fin- 
ished. "I  think  anyone  would  get  the  connection,  of  which  I  am  al- 
ways conscious,  between  the  lower  forms  of  life  and  the  human." 

"It's  a  swell  job,"  she  said. 

Dinner  began  successfully.  The  donac  broth  was  strong  enough. 
She  had  gone  out  in  her  bathing  suit  to  gather  the  tiny  clams  just 
before  high  tide.  The  broiled  pompano  was  delicately  brown  and 
flaky.  The  cauliflower  was  all  right,  after  all.  The  hollandaise,  un- 
fortunately, was  thin.  She  had  so  frightened  Jones  about  the  heinous- 
ness  of  cooking  it  too  long  that  he  had  taken  it  off  the  fire  before  it 
had  quite  thickened. 

"My  dear,"  Dr.  Tifton  said,  laying  down  his  fork,  "surely  it  is 
not  too  much  to  ask  of  an  intelligent  woman  to  teach  a  servant  to 
make  a  simple  sauce." 

She  felt  a  little  hysterical.  "Maybe  I'm  not  intelligent,"  she  said. 

"Of  course  you  are,"  he  said  soothingly.  "Don't  misunderstand  me. 
I  am  not  questioning  your  intelligence.  You  just  do  not  realize  the 
importance  of  being  exact  with  an  inferior." 

He  took  a  large  mouthful  of  the  cauliflower  and  hollandaise.  The 
flavor  was  beyond  reproach,  and  he  weakened. 

"I  know,"  he  said,  swallowing  and  scooping  generously  again,  "I 
know  that  I  am  a  perfectionist.  It's  a  bit  of  a  bother  sometimes,  but 


THE  PELICAN'S  SHADOW  379 

of  course  it  is  the  quality  that  makes  me  a  scientist.  A  literary— shall 
I  say  literate?— no,  articulate  scientist." 

He  helped  himself  to  a  large  pat  of  curled  butter  for  his  roll.  The 
salad,  the  pineapple  mousse,  the  after-dinner  coffee  and  liqueur  went 
off  acceptably.  He  smacked  his  lips  ever  so  faintly. 

"Excuse  me  a  moment,  my  mouse,"  he  said.  His  digestion  was 
rapid  and  perfect. 

Now  that  he  was  in  the  bathroom,  it  had  evidently  occurred  to 
him  to  take  his  shower  and  get  into  his  dressing  gown.  She  heard 
the  water  running  and  the  satisfied  humming  he  emitted  when  all 
was  well.  She  would  have  time,  for  he  was  meticulous  with  his  fort- 
nightly special  toilet,  to  begin  a  letter  to  May  Morrow.  She  took  the 
portable  typewriter  out  to  a  glass-covered  table  on  the  terrace.  The 
setting  sun  reached  benignly  under  the  awning.  She  drew  a  deep 
breath.  It  was  a  little  difficult  to  begin.  May  had  almost  sounded  as 
though  she  did  not  put  full  credence  in  the  idyll.  She  wanted  to 
write  enthusiastically  but  judiciously,  so  May  would  understand  that 
she,  Elsa,  was  indeed  a  fortunate  young  woman,  wed  irrevocably,  by 
her  own  deliberate,  intelligent  choice,  to  a  brilliant  man— a  real  man, 
second  only  in  scientific  and  literary  rating  to  Dr.  Beebe. 

Dear  May: 

It  was  grand  to  hear  from  you.  I'm  thrilled  about  Jane  Maxe. 
What  a  scoop!  I  could  almost  be  jealous  of  both  of  you  if  my  lines 
hadn't  fallen  into  such  gloriously  pleasant  places. 
I  am,  of  course,  supremely  happy- 
She  leaned  back.  She  was  writing  gushily.  Married  women  had  the 
damnedest  way,  she  had  always  noticed,  of  gushing.  Perhaps  the 
true  feminine  nature  was  sloppy,  after  all.  She  deleted  "gloriously," 
crossed  out  "supremely,"  and  inserted  "tremendously."  She  would 
have  to  copy  the  letter. 

A  shadow  passed  between  the  terrace  and  the  ocean.  She  looked 
up.  One  of  those  beastly  pelicans  was  flapping  down  the  coast  over 
the  sand  dunes.  He  had  already  fed,  or  he  would  be  flapping,  in  that 
same  sure  way  of  finding  what  he  wanted,  over  the  surf.  It  was 
ridiculous  to  be  disturbed  by  him.  Yet  somewhere  she  suspected  there 
must  be  an  association  of  thoughts  that  had  its  base  in  an  unrecog- 
nized antipathy.  Something  about  the  pelican's  shadow,  darkening 
her  heart  and  mind  with  that  absurd  desperation,  must  be  connected 
with  some  profound  and  secret  dread,  but  she  could  not  seem  to  put 
her  finger  on  it, 


380  MARJORIE  KINNAN  RAWLINGS 

She  looked  out  from  under  the  lemon-colored  awning.  The  pelican 
had  turned  and  was  flapping  back  again.  She  had  a  good  look  at  him. 
He  was  neatly  gray,  objectionably  neat  for  a  creature  with  such 
greedy  habits.  His  round  head,  lifted  to  a  peak,  was  sunk  against  his 
heavy  shoulders.  His  round  gray  eye  looked  down  below  him,  a 
little  behind  him,  with  a  cold,  pleased,  superior  expression.  His  long, 
thin  mouth  was  unbearably  smug,  with  the  expression  of  a  partial 
smile. 

"Oh,  go  on  about  your  business!"  she  shouted  at  him. 


Reverie  of  Space  and  Time 


BY  HERMAN  MELVILLE 


Dreams!  dreams!  golden  dreams:  endless,  and  golden,  as  the  flow- 
ery prairies,  that  stretch  away  from  the  Rio  Sacramento,  in 
whose  waters  Danae's  shower  was  woven;— prairies  like  rounded  eter- 
nities: jonquil  leaves  beaten  out;  and  my  dreams  herd  like  buffaloes, 
browsing  on  to  the  horizon,  and  browsing  on  round  the  world;  and 
among  them,  I  dash  with  my  lance,  to  spear  one,  ere  they  all  flee. 

Dreams!  dreams!  passing  and  repassing,  like  Oriental  empires  in 
history;  and  scepters  wave  thick,  as  Bruce's  pikes  at  Bannockburn; 
and  crowns  are  plenty  as  marigolds  in  June.  And  far  in  the  back- 
ground, hazy  and  blue,  their  steeps  let  down  from  the  sky,  loom 
Andes  on  Andes,  rooted  on  Alps;  and  all  round  me,  long  rushing 
oceans,  roll  Amazons  and  Oronocos;  waves,  mounted  Parthians;  and, 
to  and  fro,  toss  the  wide  woodlands:  all  the  world  an  elk,  and  the 
forests  its  antlers. 

But  far  to  the  South,  past  my  Sicily  suns  and  my  vineyards, 
stretches  the  Antarctic  barrier  of  ice:  a  China  wall,  built  up  from 
the  sea,  and  nodding  its  frosted  towers  in  the  dun,  clouded  sky.  Do 
Tartary  and  Siberia  lie  beyond?  Deathful,  desolate  dominions  those; 
bleak  and  wild  the  ocean,  beating  at  that  barrier's  base,  hovering 
'twixt  freezing  and  foaming;  and  freighted  with  navies  of  ice-bergs,— 
warring  worlds  crossing  orbits;  their  long  icicles,  projecting  like 
spears  to  the  charge.  Wide  away  stream  the  floes  of  drift  ice,  frozen 
cemeteries  of  skeletons  and  bones.  White  bears  howl  as  they  drift 
from  their  cubs;  and  the  grinding  islands  crush  the  skulls  of  the 
peering  seals. 

But  beneath  me,  at  the  Equator,  the  earth  pulses  and  beats  like 
a  warrior's  heart;  till  I  know  not,  whether  it  be  not  myself.  And  my 
soul  sinks  down  to  the  depths,  and  soars  to  the  skies;  and  comet-like 
reels  on  through  such  boundless  expanses,  that  methinks  all  the  worlds 
are  my  kin,  and  I  invoke  them  to  stay  in  their  course.  Yet,  like  a 
mighty  three-decker,  towing  argosies  by  scores,  I  tremble,  gasp,  and 

381 


382  HERMAN  MELVILLE 

strain  in  my  flight,  and  fain  would  cast  off  the  cables  that  hamper. 

And  like  a  frigate,  I  am  full  with  a  thousand  souls;  and  as  on,  on, 
on,  I  scud  before  the  wind,  many  mariners  rush  up  from  the  orlop 
below,  like  miners  from  caves;  running  shouting  across  my  decks; 
opposite  braces  are  pulled;  and  this  way  and  that,  the  great  yards 
swing  round  on  their  axes;  and  boisterous  speaking-trumpets  are 
heard;  and  contending  orders,  to  save  the  good  ship  from  the  shoals. 
Shoals,  like  nebulous  vapors,  shoring  the  white  reef  of  the  Milky 
Way,  against  which  the  wrecked  worlds  are  dashed;  strowing  all  the 
strand,  with  their  Himmaleh  keels  and  ribs. 

Ay:  many,  many  souls  are  in  me.  In  my  tropical  calms,  when  my 
ship  lies  tranced  on  Eternity's  main,  speaking  one  at  a  time,  then  all 
with  one  voice:  an  orchestra  of  many  French  bugles  and  horns,  ris- 
ing, and  falling,  and  swaying,  in  golden  calls  and  responses. 

Sometimes,  when  these  Atlantics  and  Pacifies  thus  undulate  round 
me,  I  lie  stretched  out  in  their  midst:  a  land-locked  Mediterranean, 
knowing  no  ebb,  nor  flow.  Then  again,  I  am  dashed  in  the  spray  of 
these  sounds:  an  eagle  at  the  world's  end,  tossed  skyward,  on  the 
horns  of  the  tempest. 

Yet,  again,  I  descend,  and  list  to  the  concert. 

Like  a  grand,  ground  swell,  Homer's  old  organ  rolls  its  vast  vol- 
umes under  the  light  frothy  wave-crests  of  Anacreon  and  Hafiz;  and 
high  over  my  ocean,  sweet  Shakespeare  soars,  like  all  the  larks  of 
the  spring.  Throned  on  my  sea-side,  like  Canute,  bearded  Ossian 
smites  his  hoar  harp,  wreathed  with  wild-flowers,  in  which  warble 
my  Wallers;  blind  Milton  sings  bass  to  my  Petrarchs  and  Priors,  and 
laureates  crown  me  with  bays. 

In  me,  many  worthies  recline,  and  converse.  I  list  to  St.  Paul 
who  argues  the  doubts  of  Montaigne;  Julian  the  Apostate  cross- 
questions  Augustine;  and  Thomas-a-Kempis  unrolls  his  old  black 
letters  for  all  to  decipher.  Zeno  murmurs  maxims  beneath  the  hoarse 
shout  of  Democritus;  and  though  Democritus  laugh  loud  and  long, 
and  the  sneer  of  Pyrrho  be  seen;  yet,  divine  Plato,  and  Proclus,  and 
Verulam  are  of  my  counsel;  and  Zoroaster  whispered  me  before  I 
was  born.  I  walk  a  world  that  is  mine;  and  enter  many  nations,  as 
Mungo  Park  rested  in  African  cots;  I  am  served  like  Bajazet:  Bac- 
chus my  butler,  Virgil  my  minstrel,  Philip  Sidney  my  page.  My  mem- 
ory is  a  life  beyond  birth;  my  memory,  my  library  of  the  Vatican, 
its  alcoves  all  endless  perspectives,  eve-tinted  by  cross-lights  from 
Middle-Age  oriels. 

And  as  the  great  Mississippi  musters  his  watery  nations:  Ohio, 
with  all  his  leagued  streams;  Missouri,  bringing  down  in  torrents 


REVERIE  OF  SPACE  AND  TIME  383 

the  clans  from  the  highlands;  Arkansas,  his  Tartar  rivers  from  the 
plain;— so,  with  all  the  past  and  present  pouring  in  me,  I  roll  down 
my  billow  from  afar. 

Yet  not  I,  but  another:  God  is  my  Lord;  and  though  many  satel- 
lites revolve  around  me,  I  and  all  mine  revolve  round  the  great 
central  Truth,  sun-like,  fixed  and  luminous  forever  in  the  founda- 
tionless  firmament. 

Fire  flames  on  my  tongue;  and  though  of  old  the  Bactrian  prophets 
were  stoned,  yet  the  stoners  in  oblivion  sleep.  But  whoso  stones  me, 
shall  be  as  Erostratus,  who  put  torch  to  the  temple;  though  Genghis 
Khan  with  Cambyses  combine  to  obliterate  him,  his  name  shall  be 
extant  in  the  mouth  of  the  last  man  that  lives.  And  if  so  be,  down 
unto  death,  whence  I  came,  will  I  go,  like  Xenophon  retreating  on 
Greece,  all  Persia  brandishing  her  spears  in  his  rear. 

My  cheek  blanches  white  while  I  write;  I  start  at  the  scratch  of 
my  pen;  my  own  mad  brood  of  eagles  devours  me;  fain  would  I 
unsay  this  audacity;  but  an  iron-mailed  hand  clenches  mine  in  a  vice, 
and  prints  down  every  letter  in  my  spite.  Fain  would  I  hurl  off  this 
Dionysius  that  rides  me;  my  thoughts  crush  me  down  till  I  groan;  in 
far  fields  I  hear  the  song  of  the  reaper,  while  I  slave  and  faint  in  this 
cell.  The  fever  runs  through  me  like  lava;  my  hot  brain  burns  like 
a  coal;  and  like  many  a  monarch,  I  am  less  to  be  envied,  than  the 
veriest  hind  in  the  land. 


A  Winter  Diary 


BY  MARK  VAN  DOREN 


This  was  not  written  then,  when  measuring  time 
Ran  smoothly  to  unalterable  rhyme; 
When  even  song—but  still  it  is  unsounded- 
Kept  the  pure  tally  that  has  been  confounded. 
This  was  not  written  then,  when  sudden  spring 
Not  yet  had  threatened  winter,  and  no  thing 
Stood  colder  than  the  skin  of  apple  trees. 
Now  every  top  is  bursting  into  bees; 
Now  all  of  them,  solidified  to  light, 
Reflect  a  cloudy  fire,  as  high,  as  white 
As  any  sky  in  summer;  and  at  last 
Sharp  edges  of  a  shadow  have  been  cast. 
Thus  sudden  spring,  with  sudden  summer  near, 
Has  made  a  certain  winter  disappear: 
The  winter  of  all  winters  I  would  keep 
Had  I  the  power  to  put  this  warmth  asleep 
And  make  the  world  remember  what  I  saw. 
But  who  has  power  against  a  seasons  law? 
Who  lives  a  winter  over,  who  is  proof 
Against  the  rain  of  months  upon  his  roof? 
A  certain  winter  fades  that  I  had  thought 
Forever  in  live  colors  to  have  caught. 
A  certain  moveless  winter  more  than  moves: 
Runs  backward,  and  oblivions  great  grooves 
Lie  deeper  in  the  distance,  and  tomorrow 
Nothing  will  be  there  save  mist  and  sorrow. 
Therefore  must  I  fix  it  while  I  may: 
Feign  records,  and  upon  this  single  day 
Tie  months  of  time  together,  in  pretended 
Sequence  till  they  once  again  are  ended. 

384 


A  WINTER  DIARY  38 

. . .  So  it  is  autumn,  when  the  city  reaches, 
Pulling  us  home  from  mountains  and  from  beaches; 
Down  the  curved  roads  and  from  the  crescent  sands 
To  oblong  streets  among  divided  lands. 
Yet  not  us  four.  It  is  the  year  we  stay 
And  watch  the  town-returners  pour  away. 
Now  the  last  stragglers  of  the  stream  have  gone; 
Here  now  we  stand  upon  a  thinning  lawn— 
The  shade  wind-shattered,  and  the  cut  grass  sleeping- 
Here  then  we  stand  and  to  the  country  s  keeping 
Tender  four  faces.  Not  a  leaf  that  falls 
But  flutters  through  a  memory  of  walls; 
Flutters,  with  more  to  follow,  till  they  weave 
This  solitude  we  shall  at  last  believe. 

. . .  October  sunshine,  and  a  summer  s  day! 

Yet  not  the  heaviness  long  wont  to  lay 

Slow  skies  upon  our  heads  and  bind  us  round 

With  the  full  growth  of  a  too  fruitful  ground. 

The  morning  sun  was  southerly,  and  noon 

Came  swiftly,  and  the  day  was  over  soon: 

An  airy  thing  time  tossed  us  for  our  pleasure, 

Blue,  and  wide-blown,  and  rich  with  gold  leaf -treasure. 

The  solid  green  is  gone,  the  trees  are  fire: 

Cool  fire,  and  top-contained,  without  desire; 

Not  caring  if  it  lives,  for  lo,  all  day 

Wind  bullied  it  and  bore  the  sparks  away. 

October  sunshine  and  red-ember  drifts; 

So  the  long  burden  of  a  summer  lifts. 

. . .  November  rain  all  night,  the  last  of  three 

Dark  nights  and  mornings.  We  have  been  to  see 

The  brook  that  piles  grey  water  down  the  meadows. 

Grey  water,  and  there  is  no  sun  for  shadows; 

No  wind  for  bare  tree-talk,  no  thing  but  spreading 

Rain;  no  thing  but  rain,  wherein  the  treading 

Crow-feet  leave  thin  tracks,  and  grass  is  drowned 

With  a  contented  and  a  final  sound. 

Safely  indoors  now,  with  a  fire  to  dry  us, 

We  hear  a  whole  long  year  go  slipping  by  us— 


386  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Backward  to  die,  with  nothing  left  ahead 

Save  solitude  and  silence,  and  a  thread 

Of  days  that  will  conduct  us  through  the  cold. 

The  window-panes  are  waterfalls  that  fold 

Small  misty  visions  of  our  valley's  end. 

The  rain  is  sewing  curtains  that  will  rend 

And  rise  another  day;  but  shut  us  now 

In  such  a  world  as  mice  have  up  the  mow. 

Thus  do  we  know  ourselves  at  last  alone; 

And  laugh  at  both  the  kittens,  who  have  grown 

Till  here  they  lie,  prim  figures  by  the  fire, 

Paws  folded,  aping  age  and  undesire. 

The  boys  would  have  them  up  again  to  play. 

But  they  are  sudden-old;  it  is  the  day 

For  dreaming  of  enclosure,  and  of  being 

All  of  the  world  time  missed  as  he  was  fleeing. 

They  think,  the  furry  fools,  to  live  forever. 

So  then  do  we,  the  curtains  lifted  never. 

. . .  It  is  December,  and  the  setting  sun 
Drops  altogether  leftward  of  the  one 
Long  mountain-back  we  used  to  measure  by. 
The  maple  limbs  swing  upward,  grey  and  dry, 
And  print  the  lawn,  now  naked  for  the  snow, 
With  lines  that  might  be  nothing.  But  we  know. 
We  see  them  there  across  the  bitten  ground, 
Dark  lace  upon  the  iron,  and  catch  the  sound 
Of  half  a  world  contracting  under  cold. 
Slowly  it  shrinks,  for  it  is  wise  and  old, 
And  waits;  and  in  its  wisdom  will  be  spared. 
So  is  the  frosted  garden-plot  prepared. 
The  withered  tops,  arustle  row  by  row, 
Fear  nothing  still  to  come;  for  all  must  go. 
That  is  their  wisdom,  as  it  is  the  horse's, 
Whose  coat  the  wind  already  reinforces, 
There  in  the  blowing  paddock  past  the  gate. 
The  four  of  us  a  long  day,  working  late, 
Confined  her  where  she  grazes,  building  the  fence 
She  leans  on;  yet  she  would  not  wander  hence. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  387 

She  drops  her  head  and  nibbles  the  brown  grass, 
Unmindful  of  a  season  that  will  pass; 
Long-coated,  with  a  rump  the  wind  can  ruffle; 
Shoeless,  and  free;  but  soon  the  snow  will  muffle 
All  of  her  four  black  feet,  that  study  a  line 
Down  to  the  ponies'  corner  under  the  pine. 
So  have  the  field-mice,  folding  their  startled  ears, 
Burrowed  away  from  owls  and  flying  fears. 
So  have  the  hunters  ceased  upon  the  hills; 
The  last  shot  echoes  and  the  woodland  stills; 
And  here,  along  the  house,  the  final  flower 
Lets  fall  its  rusty  petals  hour  by  hour. 

. .  .  So,  in  December,  we  ourselves  stand  ready. 
The  season  we  have  dared  is  strong  and  heady, 
But  there  is  many  a  weapon  we  can  trust. 
Five  cellar  shelves  that  were  but  layered  dust 
Are  wiped  to  kitchen  neatness,  and  confine 
Clear  jellies  that  will  soothe  us  when  we  dine: 
Crab-apple,  quince,  and  hardly -ripened  grape, 
With  jam  from  every  berry,  and  the  shape 
Of  cherries  showing  pressed  against  the  jar; 
Whole  pears;  and  where  the  tall  half-gallons  are, 
Tomatoes  with  their  golden  seeds;  and  blunt 
Cucumbers  that  the  early  ground-worms  hunt. 
The  highest  shelf,  beneath  the  spidery  floor, 
Holds  pumpkins  in  a  row,  with  squash  before: 
Dark,  horny  Hubbards  that  will  slice  in  half 
And  come  with  pools  of  butter  as  we  laugh, 
Remembering  the  frost  that  laid  the  vines 
Like  blackened  string:  Septembers  valentines. 
Firm  corn,  and  tapering  carrots,  and  the  blood 
Of  beets  complete  the  tally  of  saved  food; 
Yet  over  in  a  corner,  white  and  square, 
Is  the  big  bin  with  our  potato-share. 
Then  seven  barrels  of  apples  standing  by. 
We  brought  them  down  the  ladder  when  a  high 
Stiff  wind  was  there  to  whip  us,  hand  and  cheek; 
And  wheeled  them  to  the  barn,  where  many  a  week 


388  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

They  filled  the  tightest  chamber;  but  they  found 
More  certain  safety  here  below  the  ground: 
The  Baldwins  to  be  eaten,  and  the  Spies; 
But  Greenings  are  for  betty  and  for  pies. 
A  dusty  cellar  window,  old  as  stone, 
Lets  in  grey  light,  a  slowly  spreading  cone 
Sharp-ended  here,  and  shining,  at  the  shelves. 
All  of  the  other  spaces  wrapped  themselves 
In  darkness  long  ago;  and  there  the  wood 
Remembers  a  great  sky  wherein  they  stood: 
The  twenty  trees  I  walked  with  Louis,  marking, 
Once  in  a  mist  of  rain;  then  axes  barking 
Through  the  wet,  chilly  weeks,  with  ring  of  wedges 
Under  the  blows  of  iron  alternate  sledges, 
Louis's  and  Lauriers,  of  equal  skill. 
These  were  the  two  woodchoppers  whom  the  still 
Small  faces  of  the  boys  watched  day  by  day. 
They  sat  among  brown  leaves,  so  far  away 
We  barely  could  hear  their  shouting  as  the  saw 
Paused,  and  the  great  trunk  trembled,  and  a  raw 
Circle  of  odorous  wood  gaped  suddenly  there. 
Now  maple  and  oak  and  cherry,  and  a  rare 
Hard  chestnut  piece,  with  hickory  and  birch, 
Piled  here  in  shortened  lengths,  await  my  search: 
Coming  with  lantern  and  with  leather  gjloves 
To  choose  what  provender  the  furnace  loves. 
From  wall  to  wall  a  dozen  resting  rows: 
We  shall  be  warm,  whatever  winter  blows. 
So  for  the  range  upstairs  a  mound  uprises, 
By  the  back  fence,  of  birch  in  sapling  sizes. 
Old  Bailey  cut  them  through  a  lonely  fall- 
He  and  his  axe  together,  that  was  all: 
They  in  a  thicket,  and  the  white  poles  ^teaming; 
Now  a  high  frozen  pile  the  sun  is  steaming. 
We  shall  be  warm,  whatever  north  wind  catches 
Any  of  us  outside  the  rattling  latches; 
Down  the  sloped  road,  or  where  the  yard  descends 
To  the  barns  angle  with  its  gusty  ends, 
Or  higher,  beyond  the  garden  and  the  orchard— 
We  shall  not  be  snow-worried  or  wind-tortured. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  389 

The  armor  we  have  sent  for  has  arrived. 
The  great  book  spread  its  pages,  and  we  dived 
Like  cormorants  for  prey  among  the  rocks; 
And  chose,  and  duly  ordered;  and  the  box 
Came  yesterday.  A  winters  woolen  wraps: 
Thick-wristed  mittens  and  two  stocking  caps; 
Three  fleece-lined  jackets  that  will  turn  all  weather, 
And  one  cut  neat  for  ladies  out  of  leather; 
Red  sweaters,  nut-brown  shirts,  and  rubber-soled 
Great  workman's  shoes  for  wading  in  the  cold. 
We  shall  be  warm;  or  we  can  stamp  indoors, 
Wool  failing,  till  the  supper  and  the  chores. 

. . .  So  quietly  it  came  that  we  could  doubt  it. 

There  was  no  wind  from  anywhere  to  shout  it. 

Simply  it  came,  the  inescapable  cold, 

Sliding  along  some  world  already  old 

And  stretched  already  there  had  we  perceived  it. 

Now  by  this  hour  the  least  one  has  believed  it. 

Snippy,  the  lesser  kitten,  lies  entangled 

Deep  in  the  fur  of  Snappy,  where  a  dangled 

Feed-sack  drapes  a  box  inside  the  shed. 

I  found  them  with  the  lantern,  playing  dead: 

Those  very  creatures,  Snippy  and  her  brother, 

Who  in  the  orange  sunset  tumbled  each  other, 

Lithe  by  the  stepping-stone.  Through  such  a  night 

How  often  have  they  put  the  frost  to  flight; 

How  often,  when  the  blackness  made  them  bolder, 

Have  they  confounded  time,  that  grew  no  colder. 

Yet  not  this  night;  they  recognize  the  god, 

As  in  the  barn  the  black  mare,  left  to  nod, 

Stands  in  her  blanket,  dozing.  I  have  come 

From  tending  her,  and  heard  the  ominous  hum 

Of  branches  that  no  wind  moved  overhead; 

Only  a  tightness  and  a  stealth  instead. 

The  stiffened  world  turns  hard  upon  its  axis, 

Laboring;  but  these  yellow  lamps  relax  us, 

Here  in  the  living-room  at  either  end. 

She  by  the  south  one,  I  by  the  north  pretend 


390  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Forgetfulness  of  pavements;  or  remark 

How  very  dead  the  sky  is,  and  how  dark— 

In  passing,  with  the  air  of  two  that  pore 

On  things  familiar,  having  been  before. 

It  is  our  way  of  knowing  what  is  near. 

This  is  the  time,  this  is  the  holy  year 

We  planned  for,  casting  every  cable  off. 

That  was  a  board-creak;  that  was  the  horse's  cough; 

That  was  no  wind,  we  say;  and  looking  down, 

Smile  at  the  wolf-dog,  Sam,  who  dreams  of  brown 

Clipped  fields  that  he  will  lope  in  when  he  wakes. 

He  dreams,  and  draws  his  ankles  up,  and  slakes 

Imaginary  thirsts  at  frozen  pools. 

He  is  the  wolf-dog,  he  is  the  one  that  fools 

New  comers  up  the  yard;  for  gentler  beast 

Prowled  never  to  the  pantry  for  a  feast. 

He  is  the  boys'  companion,  who  at  dusk 

Ran  rings  with  them  tonight,  and  worried  the  husk 

Of  daylight  in  his  teeth,  and  stood  his  hair 

Wind-upright.  Now  he  sleeps  unthinking  there, 

Companion  of  the  boys,  who  long  ago 

Climbed  the  dark  stairs  to  bed.  So  we  below 

Should  come  there  too,  we  say;  and  say  it  again, 

And  laugh  to  hear  the  clock  tick  out  the  ten. 

We  are  not  sleepy;  this  is  the  holy  year 

Let  it  tick  on  to  midnight,  and  for  cheer 

Start  coffee  in  the  kitchen,  while  I  spread 

Bright  jam  upon  the  goodness  of  cut  bread. 

. . .  We  were  awakened  by  a  double  shout: 
"Get  up,  you  lazy  people,  and  look  out!" 
There  was  a  weiglit  of  stillness  on  my  eyes; 
But  in  my  ears  innumerable  sighs 
Of  snowffakes  settling  groundward  past  the  glass. 
I  stood  and  stared,  saying  for  jest  "Alas! 
My  sight  fails,  I  can  see  the  merest  dim 
Milk-whiteness!"  "We  must  bring  it  up  to  him!" 
Cried  one;  and  both  were  going,  when  I  told  them: 
"Dress!"  So  now,  as  breakfast  waits,  behold  them 
Marching  through  a  mist  of  falling  specks, 


A  WINTER  DIARY  391 

They  stop  and  raise  their  faces,  and  it  flecks 

Their  foreheads  till  they  laugh;  then  treading  on, 

Leave  tracks  across  the  swiftly  thickening  lawn. 

I  let  them  go  this  morning  for  the  milk— 

The  car  wheels  turning  softly  in  a  silk 

New  coverlet  as  wide  as  eyes  could  see. 

The  chimney  smoke  was  rising,  round  and  free, 

From  every  ridge  of  shingles:  even  there 

Where  Grandmother  waved  and  pointed  at  the  air. 

The  wolf -dog  running  with  us  need  not  pause, 

Tasting  the  untamed  whiteness;  for  his  jaws 

Dipped  as  he  loped  along,  and  fiercely  entered 

Now  the  far  past  wherein  his  mind  was  centered. 

Back  at  the  barn  the  Shetland  ponies  wheeled, 

Biting  each  others  manes,  their  little  field 

Grown  boundless  by  some  fantasy,  and  fenceless. 

They  romped  like  shaggy  dogs,  and  were  as  senseless, 

Fluttering  at  the  gate,  as  moths,  and  small. 

They  waited  for  the  big  one  in  the  stall. 

She  whinnied  as  we  came,  and  only  stopped 

When  I  rose  up  the  ladder  and  hay  dropped. 

She  will  have  finished  breakfast  in  an  hour. 

So  we,  and  through  a  sudden  whirling  shower 

Shall  bring  her  to  the  ponies.  Then  our  talk 

Will  come  once  more  to  sleds,  and  up  the  walk 

I  shall  again  make  promises;  and  keep  them, 

Thinking  of  flakes  and  how  a  wind  can  heap  them. 

This  wind  is  gentle,  and  the  grey  sheet  sways. 

I  am  no  prophet  if  it  falls  and  stays. 

. . .  All  yesterday  it  melted,  and  at  night 
Was  nothing,  and  the  prophecy  was  right. 
But  in  a  play-house  corner  stand  the  sleds, 
Almost  as  high  as  the  excited  heads 
Of  two  that  will  be  on  them  when  the  slopes 
Glisten  once  more.  And  so  the  boys  have  hopes 
While  I  have  present  pleasure;  for  the  ground 
Grows  musical  wherever  I  am  bound. 
The  mud  was  gone  as  quickly  as  the  snow: 
An  afternoon  of  thaw,  but  then  a  low 


392  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Crisp  sunset  sound  of  shrinking,  and  the  crack 

Of  coldness  like  a  panther  coming  hack. 

Tonight  the  snowless  evening  and  the  moon 

Kept  my  late  feet  contented  with  a  tune 

More  ancient  than  the  meadows,  where  the  stones 

Rise  ever  up:  unburiable  bones. 

The  bareness  of  the  world  was  like  a  bell 

My  feet,  accustomed,  struck;  and  striking  well, 

Let  the  rung  sound  be  minuted  with  the  dry 

Primeval  winter  moonlight  flowing  by. 

Alone  outdoors  and  late,  the  resonant  lawn 

Moved  with  me  as  I  lagged,  and  moving  on 

Bore  all  my  senses  fieldward  to  those  bones 

Of  permanence,  the  unalterable  stones. 

There  is  no  such  intensity  of  lasting 

Anywhere  out  of  meadows,  where  the  fasting 

Grasses  worship  something  in  December 

Older  than  any  moist  root  can  remember; 

Older  than  age,  drier  than  any  drouth; 

Something  not  to  be  praised  by  word  of  mouth. 

I  did  not  praise  them  then,  nor  shall  henceforth; 

But  shall  remind  me,  so,  what  change  is  worth: 

Timothy  round  a  rock,  and  daisies  hiding 

Something  that  will  be  there  again— abiding 

Longer  than  hope  and  stronger  than  old  despair; 

Something  not  to  be  dated  under  the  air. 

I  looked  at  stones;  and  faces  looked  at  me: 

Sidewise,  always  sidewise,  past  a  tree 

Or  slanting  down  some  corner,  or  obliquely 

Squinting  where  the  moon  fell,  and  as  weakly. 

I  saw  them  not  but  knew  them:  the  tired  faces 

Of  those  who  may  not  leave  their  acred  places: 

Those  of  a  time  long  gone  that  never  dies. 

You  know  it  by  the  darkness  of  their  eyes, 

And  by  the  way  they  work  to  comprehend 

Who  lives  here  now  beyond  a  century  s  end. 

Who  lives  and  does  not  labor,  and  makes  light 

Of  the  grim  gods  that  once  were  day,  were  night; 

That  carved  a  cheek,  bent  breasts,  and  knotted  hands. 

Not  one  of  them  withdraws  or  understands. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  393 

Not  one  of  them  but  looked  at  me;  and  I, 

Intruder  here,  seemed  helpless  to  reply. 

Not  by  their  older  choosing  are  we  here, 

Not  by  their  doom  made  free  of  gods  and  fear. 

Was  then  the  better  time?  I  said;  and  thought 

How  excellently  winter  moonshine  taught 

The  shapes  of  winter  trees.  That  maple  there, 

How  shadeless,  how  upflowing,  and  how  fair! 

Even  without  their  leaves  the  elm-limbs  drooped; 

The  alders  leaned;  and  birches  interlooped 

Their  lacy,  blackened  fingers  past  the  pines. 

The  great  dead  chestnut  where  the  loud  crow  dines 

Writhed  on,  its  mighty  arms  unskilled  to  fall. 

The  evergreens  were  solid  over  all, 

And  hickories  and  tulips,  few  of  limb, 

Held  what  they  had  straight  out  for  time  to  trim. 

Was  then  the  better  world,  I  wondered— daring 

Suddenly  now  an  answer  from  the  staring 

People  of  old  days,  the  accusing  faces. 

But  none  of  us,  tree-watching  on  these  places, 

Ever  will  hear  a  sentence  from  the  source. 

Gone  is  their  blood,  and  spent  their  bitter  force; 

They  only  live  to  chafe  us  down  the  wind 

And  leave  us  ever  afterward  thin-skinned: 

Wondering  on  them,  the  only-good, 

On  whom  these  lighter  feet  too  long  intrude. 

. . .  We  have  had  company  of  Friday  nights. 

We  have  looked  out  of  windows  till  the  lights 

Of  cars  too  long  in  coming  dipped  and  streamed; 

Then  ended  by  the  door  as  time  had  dreamed. 

Two  late  ones  from  the  city,  blinking  here 

In  the  warm  lamplight,  with  the  kittens  near— 

These  have  been  shown  their  room,  the  spare  northeast  one; 

Have  laughed  and  begged  a  bite:  even  the  least  one, 

Even  a  crust  to  pay  them  for  the  ride. 

Already  coffee  bubbled,  fit  to  glide, 

As  quickly  as  cups  were  ready,  from  the  spout. 

Already  there  were  cookies  placed  about; 


394  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

And  soon  the  supper  entered  that  would  keep  us 

Longer  aioake  tlxan  wise,  with  talk  to  steep  us 

In  every  winter  s  moment  we  had  missed. 

So  we  unrolled  our  pleasures,  till  the  list 

Grew  endless,  and  the  meaning  of  it  fled. 

So,  as  the  boys  before  us,  up  to  bed. 

For  all  of  us  a  lazy  breakfast  waited, 

With  coffee  and  tobacco,  brownly  mated, 

Warming  the  day  to  come.  We  tilted  chairs, 

Lit  pipes,  and  fingered  forks;  till  unawares 

Time  bore  us  half  to  noon;  and  looking  out, 

We  argued  what  the  weather  was  about. 

Some  said  it  would  be  overcast  till  night, 

Settling  themselves  forever;  but  the  right 

Was  mostly  with  the  walkers  and  the  curious. 

First  then  the  barn,  where  the  black  mare  was  furious, 

Tossing  as  I  excused  our  long  delay. 

No  answer,  but  the  eyes  among  the  hay 

Dived  languorously  and  said  I  was  forgiven. 

The  cutter  by  the  car  could  not  be  driven. 

I  found  it  years  ago  and  dragged  it  here 

To  a  dry  floor  and  braced  it;  but  the  clear 

Curved  figure  will  be  never  swift  again. 

Snow  or  no  snow,  it  is  for  living  men 

Another  last  reminder  of  the  old 

Dim  people  who  are  dead.  A  crimson  fold 

Of  lining  flaps  and  braves  the  window  frost. 

But  all  the  rest  is  poor  and  language-lost: 

No  bells  to  shake,  no  orders  to  be  going 

Down  a  long  hill  where  only  time  is  snowing— 

Flake  by  flake  forgotten,  till  the  white 

Far  past  of  it  is  shadowy  with  night. 

We  took  the  road  and  turned,  and  crossed  the  bridge; 

Then,  needing  not  to  beg  the  privilege, 

Crossed  neighbor  Allyns  meadow  to  his  row 

Of  sandknolls;  then,  as  all  the  cattle  go, 

Between  the  roundest  couple  home  to  tea. 

So  Saturday,  and  night,  when  we  agree 

What  games  shall  silence  evening,  and  what  talk 

Shall  bring  the  ghost  whose  breast  is  brittle  chalk. 


A  WINTER   DIARY  395 

So  Sunday,  with  a  visit  to  the  great 
Grandfather  pine  that  guards  the  burial  gate. 
Negjlected  there,  the  towns  first  graveyard  lies 
Where  once  the  Hurlburt  roadway  took  the  rise, 
Bringing  a  country  mourner  up  to  pray. 
But  year  by  year  the  woodchucks  have  their  way, 
And  higher  mounds  are  there  than  used  to  reckon 
The  small  well-buried  length  of  smith  or  deacon. 
So  all  the  week-end  over,  and  the  pair 
Departed;  and  a  blizzard  in  the  air. 

, . .  That  second  snow  fulfilled  us  while  it  lasted. 

But  now  for  two  brown  weeks  the  fields  have  fasted 

Under  a  windless,  under  a  lukewarm  sun. 

Christmas  Eve  and  New  Years  Day  are  done, 

And  here  we  stand  expectant,  straining  dumbly 

Toward  a  long  stretch  that  will  not  lie  so  comely: 

Three  dark,  inclement  months  before  the  spring. 

Or  such  the  hope;  we  want  no  softer  thing, 

No  disappointment  deepened  day  by  day. 

That  second  snow,  dissolving,  drained  away 

Too  much  of  sudden  glory,  and  too  much 

Of  the  towered  god  whose  mantle  we  must  touch. 

There  was  no  blizzard  in  it  after  all. 

Only  a  thickening  sky,  so  slow  to  fall 

That  Monday  passed,  and  Tuesday.  Then  a  hush; 

Then  a  faint  flick,  as  if  a  fox's  brush 

Had  gained  the  woods  in  safety,  and  the  hole; 

Then  steadily,  steadily  down  the  winter  stole. 

All  afternoon  it  hissed  among  some  clump 

Of  shrubbery,  and  deepened  round  the  pump; 

All  afternoon,  till  time  put  out  the  light. 

Then  the  black  rustling  through  the  soundless  night: 

Dark  flake  on  flake  colliding  where  no  gaze 

Of  beast  or  person  followed.  Dim  the  ways 

Of  snow  in  great  high  darkness;  strange  the  souna 

Of  whiteness  come  invisible  to  ground. 

And  yet  the  lamps  awhile  allowed  the  glance 

Of  a  stray  whirl  of  moth  wings  blown  to  dance, 

Confused,  beyond  the  four  and  twenty  panes. 


396  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Here  once  we  sat  and  watched  the  autumn  rains 

Stitching  a  wall  of  water.  Now  the  snow— 

A  frailer  fall,  and  gentler— came  to  sew 

New  raiment  for  the  sun-accustomed  sashes. 

The  upstairs  window  that  a  north  wind  lashes, 

Beating  the  maple  on  it  gust  by  gust, 

Hung  silent,  like  a  picture;  but  it  thrust 

Pure  light  on  brilliant  branches,  layered  well 

With  silver  that  as  slowly  rose  and  fell, 

No  visible  lawn  beneath  it,  and  no  thing, 

Round  or  above,  save  blackness  in  a  ring: 

A  prone,  suspended  skeleton  creeping  hither, 

All  knuckle  joints  and  bare  bones  twigged  together. 

Next  morning  then,  with  Christmas  five  days  off, 

What  wonder  if  we  called  this  well  enough? 

What  wonder  if  the  two  boys  prematurely 

Counted  upon  continuance,  and  surely 

Bragged  of  a  snowy  hill  for  him,  the  guest: 

The  expected  boy,  of  all  their  friends  the  best, 

Due  now  from  deep  Virginia  on  a  night; 

Their  own,  to  play  a  week  with  out  of  sight? 

So  off  they  hurried,  pulling  the  sleds  behind  them, 

To  cross  the  nearest  meadow-stretch  and  find  them 

Somewhere  a  perfect  slope  that  they  could  pack: 

The  runners  for  the  hundredth  time  and  back 

Deep-sinking  through  the  softness,  with  dragged  feet 

To  finish  a  rough  design  and  leave  it  neat. 

I  watched  them  for  a  little  from  the  road, 

Then  called,  and  she  came  with  me  to  the  snowed 

White  forest  edge,  and  over  the  wall  inspected 

The  prints  of  birds;  or  how  a  deer  directed 

Leap  after  leap  to  gain  his  inland  thicket. 

A  pine  branch  sagged  to  the  earth,  but  I  could  flick  it, 

Filling  my  neck  with  flakes  as  up  it  reared, 

Snow-loosened  of  its  many-pointed  beard. 

Meanwhile  the  cry  of  coasters  over  the  hill, 

With  moment  interruptions,  clear  and  still, 

That  said  the  feet  were  staggering  up  again. 

We  came,  and  Sam  the  wolf-dog  joined  them  then 

In  a  loud,  urgent  welcome,  bark  and  word. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  397 

For  he  had  crossed  the  field  to  make  a  third, 

And  close-pursued  them,  snapping  at  their  feet 

Now  up  the  slope,  now  down;  then  off  to  meet 

Plump  Snappy,  most  companionable  cat, 

Who,  plowing  the  snow  alone,  arrived  and  sat 

Like  something  stone  of  Egypt,  not  for  play. 

He  watched  us,  two  by  two,  slide  swift  away, 

Then  turned  his  head,  encouraging  the  weak  one, 

Snippy,  the  little  sister,  the  grey  meek  one, 

Who  half  from  home  had  squatted  in  a  track; 

And  wailed  until  we  saved  her,  walking  back. 

That  was  the  day,  with  four  days  still  to  come, 

We  prophesied  long  whiteness;  hearing  the  hum 

Of  trees  contracted  slowly  in  no  wind; 

Or  watching  the  clouds  a  clear  sun  dipped  and  thinned. 

That  was  the  night  the  low  moon,  all  but  waned, 

Came  to  me  once— upstarting  at  the  strained 

Hurt  sound  of  something  strangled  in  the  woods— 

Came  to  me  at  the  window,  over  floods 

Of  waveless  shining  silence,  and  I  said: 

There  is  a  month  of  coldness  dead  ahead. 

But  Thursday  of  a  sudden  thawed  it  all. 

And  Friday,  like  a  silly  thing  of  fall, 

An  innocent  late-summer  thing,  declared 

Calm  days,  with  every  melting  meadow  bared. 

So  when  they  blew  their  horn  and  gained  the  gate— 

Those  weary  three  Virginians— only  a  late 

Cool  breath  of  proper  evening  blew  to  greet  them. 

Sam  leapt  out  ahead  of  us  to  meet  them. 

Then  the  old  rejoicing,  four  and  three; 

With  talk  of  the  north  till  bedtime,  and  the  tree 

We  all  must  bring  tomorrow:  a  picked  pine 

To  anchor  in  a  room  with  block  and  twine. 

We  found  it,  best  of  several  by  a  swamp, 

And  sawed  and  bore  it  hither  amid  the  romp 

Of  boys  and  tumbling  cats,  that  on  warm  haunches 

Settled  to  watch  us  trim  the  bristling  branches; 

Looping  the  ends  with  silver-studded  cord 

And  lo,  with  more  than  patience  could  afford 


398  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Of  cranberries  and  popcorn  needled  through: 
Now  red,  noto  white,  now  one  and  one,  and  two. 
From  every  room,  when  darkness  well  was  down, 
Came  packages  of  mystery,  in  brown 
Creased  paper  if  a  boy  or  man  were  giver; 
But  if  a  lady,  candle-light  would  quiver 
On  multicolored  tissue,  gold  and  green. 
Then  silence,  with  a  glow  behind  the  screen 
To  point  our  way  to  bed,  the  lamps  unlighted. 
Then  dawn,  and  stairs  acreak,  and  something  sighted 
Even  beyond  the  door  that  we  had  closed; 
Then  breakfast,  and  the  mysteries  deposed. 
No  more  the  ache  of  waiting;  shed  the  power 
Preeminent  of  any  future  hour. 
That  was  the  height;  the  rest  was  going  down, 
With  random  walks,  or  driving  into  town, 
Or  sitting  after  sunfall  over  tea. 
We  tidied  rooms  and  set  the  spangjied  tree 
Midway  the  snowless  lawn,  and  spiked  it  there- 
Popcorn  and  berries  on  it,  and  a  square 
Of  suet  tied  with  string  to  tempt  the  flying 
Birds.  But  there  were  kittens  always  spying, 
Ready  to  pounce  and  punish;  and  at  last 
A  brief  wind  laid  it  over  like  a  mast. 
The  rest  was  milder  pleasure,  suiting  well 
Our  seven  tongues  that  had  so  much  to  tell. 
We  talked.  And  then  the  final  day  was  come. 
Farewell,  you  three!  And  if  the  end  was  dumb, 
Remember  this:  there  was  no  charm  to  say 
As  down  the  hill  your  fenders  sloped  away. 
So  Christmas  Eve  and  New  Years  Day  are  done; 
And  still  the  lukewarm,  still  the  windless  sun 
Possesses  what  it  watches:  hidden  here, 
A  barn  and  painted  house,  from  which  appear 
Four  little  figures  scanning  a  clear  sky. 
It  doubtless  will  be  clouded  by  and  by, 
And  doubtless  yield  each  one  his  small  desire. 
Now  only  tracks,  minute  upon  the  mire. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  399 

. .  .  O  welcome  night-wind,  crazily  arriving, 
You  had  not  warned  us  till  we  heard  you  striving, 
Here  and  at  every  corner  of  the  house— 
Now  a  great  beast  and  now  a  nibbling  mouse- 
Striving  in  every  stature  to  undo  us; 
There  was  no  rumor  of  your  marching  to  us, 
No  swift  annunciation;  or  eight  hands 
Loud,  loud  had  hailed  you,  giving  you  our  lands, 
Ourselves,  and  all  this  valley  to  unsettle. 
We  only  lay  and  heard  you;  heard  the  rattle 
Of  shutters,  and  caught  the  groan  as  you  went  on 
Of  nails  from  weather-boarding  all  but  drawn. 
We  only  lay,  pulling  the  covers  higher, 
Until  at  dayrise,  grouping  about  the  fire, 
We  greeted  a  hundred  frost-hills  on  the  panes; 
Looked  through,  and  saw  the  still  wind-worried  lanes 
Thrash  heavily;  and  walking  out  a  little, 
Said  the  snapped,  hanging  branches  were  wind-spittle. 
Nor  was  the  blowing  over;  still  at  twelve 
High  limbs  were  double-curving,  like  a  helve, 
And  through  the  day,  beneath  white  clouds  and  round  ones, 
All  was  a  sea,  with  us  the  happy  drowned  ones- 
Drifting  among  the  layers  of  thin  cold, 
Self-separated.  Some,  the  slow  and  old, 
Slid  lazily,  floating  beyond  a  world; 
But  some  were  childish-violent,  and  curled 
And  slapped  our  willing  foreheads  as  they  raced. 
Layer  upon  clear  layer  built  a  waste 
Of  space  for  minds  to  work  in,  high  and  low. 
Then  the  loud  night  that  bade  the  softness  go, 
With  iron  for  morning  ground,  and  every  print 
Of  dog  or  man  foot  stamped  as  in  a  mint: 
All  metal,  all  eternal,  if  this  cold, 
High,  many-shelving  universe  could  hold. 
It  held;  and  laid  a  film  across  the  pond; 
Laid  more,  and  laying  others,  brought  the  fond 
Brown  wolf-dog  there  to  slide  beside  the  boys- 
Bewildered,  but  enchanted  by  the  noise 
Of  brittle  alder-sticks  and  clapping  hands. 
So  now  the  ice  in  hourly  thickened  bands 


400  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Is  pressing  tight  around  us,  pond  and  lawn. 
One  moment,  and  the  mighty  gale  was  gone, 
Far-whistling.  Then  a  silence,  and  the  fall 
To  nothing.  Then  the  crisp  iron  over  all. 

. . .  Slap,  slap,  the  sound  of  car  chains  going  by, 

With  elsewhere  only  stillness,  under  dry 

Fantastic  heaps  of  white  the  wind  renews. 

It  reached  us  evenly,  as  snowfalls  use; 

But  there  were  days  of  fury  when  the  air, 

Whirled  white  as  flour,  was  powdery  everywhere; 

Till  now  the  finest  grains,  like  desert  sand, 

Wait  upon  eddies  they  will  not  withstand. 

The  snow-plows  on  the  highway  come  and  go: 

Not  vainly,  but  a  devil  takes  the  snow 

Some  windy  times,  and  then  the  car  lanes  fill 

Along  the  leeward  side  of  fence  or  hill. 

The  boys  are  in  the  snow  house  we  had  made 

Before  this  blowing  weather  overlaid 

The  first  wet  fall  with  something  crisp  as  salt. 

Four  walls  we  packed  without  a  single  fault 

Between  a  pair  of  solid  shutter  forms. 

A  roof,  an  eastern  door  away  from  storms, 

Two  windows  at  the  ends— a  bread  knife  cut  them, 

Neatly,  but  there  was  then  no  way  to  shut  them— 

A  piece  of  crate  for  cushion,  and  a  bag: 

This  is  their  windy  fortress  that  a  flag 

Flies  every  day  in  front  of,  and  that  Sam 

Lies  guarding,  less  the  dragon  than  the  lamb. 

There  was  a  man  with  anthracite  for  eyes, 

And  pennies  for  his  buttons;  but  he  lies, 

Forgotten,  uncreated,  where  he  fell. 

There  was  a  castle  wall  beyond  the  well 

With  store  of  snowballs  piled  against  a  siege, 

And  apples  for  the  starving,  lord  or  liege; 

But  now  it  too  is  levelled,  and  delight 

Dwells  only  in  this  hovel  at  the  right. 

Below  the  sheds  and  halfway  to  the  wall 

Stands  a  lean  ice  house,  windowless  and  tall, 


A  WINTER  DIARY  401 

Whose  ancient  door  hung  open  day  by  day 
Till  the  last  shining  cake  was  stowed  away. 
When  ice  was  fourteen  inches  teams  were  hitched; 
Saws  buzzed;  and  like  a  waterland  bewitched 
The  silver  floor  divided,  line  and  angle. 
Then  loaded  trucks,  with  pairs  of  tongs  to  dangle, 
Teasing  the  helpful  boys  until  they  tried- 
Slipped,  fell,  and  were  convinced.  And  so  inside 
Sleep  twice  a  hundred  pieces  of  the  pond, 
Preserved  against  the  dog  days  and  beyond. 

. .  .  These  are  the  undistinguishable  days. 
This  is  the  calm  dead  center  of  the  maze 
Whereinto  we  have  wandered,  and  in  time 
Shall  wander  forth  again,  and  slowly  climb 
A  wall  the  other  side  of  which  is  change. 
Now  everything  is  like,  with  nothing  strange 
To  keep  our  hands  aware  of  what  they  do. 
This  is  the  winters  heart,  that  must  renew 
Its  steady,  steady  beating  when  an  embered 
Joy  is  all  we  have,  and  thoughts  remembered. 
Therefore  do  I  listen  while  I  may, 
Monotony,  to  what  your  whispers  say 
Of  systole,  diastole,  and  the  ribbed 
Sweet  rituals  wherein  our  wills  are  cribbed. 
Therefore  shall  I  count  the  doings  here 
Of  one  full  day,  and  represent  the  year. 
We  rise  at  eight,  but  I  an  hour  before 
Have  put  the  pipeless  furnace  in  a  roar; 
Descending  slow  in  slippers,  robe,  and  socks 
To  where,  as  in  some  Southern  ship  that  rocks, 
Dry  cargo-wood  inhabits  all  the  hold. 
Our  destination  only  the  days  unfold: 
Tier  on  tier  down-sloping  to  warm  weather. 
But  many  a  hundred  chunks  lie  yet  together, 
Snug  in  their  odorous  rows.  So  I  inspire 
Last  evenings  spent  and  barely-breathing  fire; 
Full  off  my  gloves;  ascend  the  under-stair; 
And  smoke  a  chilly  moment  in  a  chair. 


402  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

Then  up  again.  But  they  are  coming  down, 

Each  head  of  hair  in  tangles  at  the  crown; 

And  suddenly  we  smell  a  breakfast  waiting: 

Bacon  and  yellow  eggs;  or,  alternating, 

Buckwheat  cakes  with  butter  for  anointing; 

Or  third-day  porridge,  grey  and  disappointing. 

Prepared  with  steaming  water  and  the  comb, 

We  gather  about  the  range— the  morning  home 

Of  kittens,  too,  and  Sam  the  wolf -dog,  stretched 

Full  length  behind  it  while  our  plates  are  fetched. 

The  Irish  hands  that  laid  our  dining  table 

Were  up  in  early  darkness,  whence  a  fable 

Of  ghost  or  saint,  night-walking,  has  its  rise. 

We  listen,  masked  amusement  in  our  eyes, 

And  finishing  our  fare,  proceed  to  measure 

Whether  this  day  is  planned  for  work  or  pleasure. 

There  is  a  woodshed  faucet  where  I  fill 

Two  water  pails,  and  through  the  winter-still 

Bound  morning  beat  the  music  that  she  loves: 

The  restless  mare  whose  foretop,  smoothed  with  gloves, 

Will  hang  with  hay-stalk  in  it  while  she  drinks. 

She  knows  my  coming  footfall,  and  she  thinks 

To  speed  her  slave's  arrival  with  a  neigh. 

I  am  too  proud  to  hurry;  yet  the  hay 

Seems  due  her,  and  the  water,  none  the  less. 

So  up  to  where  last  summers  grasses  press 

Their  rustling  weight  on  weight;  and  casting  down 

High  pitchforkfuls,  I  stuff  the  slats  with  brown, 

Stiff  breakfast  which  the  clever  ponies  hear. 

I  listen  to  their  trotting,  small  and  clear, 

Round  the  curved  path  to  where  the  western  door 

Stands  open  night  or  day,  whatever  roar 

Of  winds  or  pelt  of  snow  drives  ruthless  in. 

They  are  from  northern  islands  where  the  din 

Of  winter  never  daunts  them.  Unconfined, 

They  wander  about  the  paddock  till  the  mined 

Mute  hay  fall  wakes  their  wisdom.  Then  they  race, 

Two  blown  and  hairy  creatures,  into  place. 

I  leave  them  there,  slow-nibbling,  eyes  astare, 

And  go  to  prod  the  motor  in  his  lair: 


A  WINTER  DIARY  403 

Four  thousand  pounds  inert,  and  chilled  so  well 
Some  mornings  I  can  barely  solve  the  spell. 
I  have  been  baffled  when  a  weakened  spark 
Has  failed  to  fire  the  monster,  and  the  dark 
Webbed  shadows  of  the  room  have  missed  his  roar, 
I  have  discovered  drifts  against  the  door, 
And  shovelled;  I  have  watched  a  winters  rains 
Turn  ice,  and  been  in  misery  with  chains: 
Now  on,  now  off,  now  broken  and  now  mended; 
I  have  as  often  wished  a  year  were  ended. 
But  now  the  long  thing  moves,  and  backing  out 
Brings  Sam,  who  disobeys  my  daily  shout 
And  lopes  to  where  the  open  meadows  tempt  him, 
I  could  be  angry,  but  his  ears  exempt  him, 
Waiting  erect  and  friendly  when  I  come. 
My  way  was  longer  round;  but  now  the  strum 
Of  pistons  will  be  answered  by  his  feet, 
That  guide  me  to  the  milkhouse,  dark,  unneat, 
Where  the  day's  pail  awaits  me.  Then  the  mile 
Retravelled,  past  the  cemetery  stile 
That  leads  among  the  six-foot  frozen  mounds. 
There  have  been  mornings  when  I  heard  the  sounds 
Of  pick  and  frozen  shovel  at  a  grave; 
But  mostly  snow  and  timeless  silence— save 
That  cries  of  farmer  children  ring  in  the  wood, 
Where  the  white  Hollow  school  long  years  has  stood. 
Some  of  them  wave  and  call  my  distant  name; 
Then  bells,  and  marching  in  to  serious  game; 
While  I  at  my  own  corner  mount  the  hill 
Past  Bailey's  house,  and  hers,  where  now  a  still 
White  shaft  of  smoke  that  bends  above  the  brook 
Declares  Grandmother  up.  A  pause;  a  look; 
Good  morning  to  her,  cheerful  at  the  door; 
Then  on  to  where  the  barn  receives  the  roar 
Of  cylinders  again  until  they  cease. 
Now  to  the  restless  mare,  whom  I  release- 
High  stepping,  in  perpetual  surprise- 
To  where  the  ponies  shake  their  shaggy  eyes. 
All  day  will  they  be  three  beyond  a  gate, 
Ground-musical,  and  free  of  their  estate; 


404  MARK  VAN   DOREN 

While  we  that  own  them,  in  and  out  of  doors 

Must  labor  at  our  self-appointed  chores. 

Now  the  grey  tool  house  where  the  chisels  hang, 

And  hammers  lie,  and  saws  with  sharpened  fang 

Rest  nightly  on  their  nails,  invites  my  skill. 

I  am  no  maker,  but  a  floor  can  fill 

With  shavings  from  the  least  instructed  plane. 

Or  there  is  wood  to  split,  come  snow  or  rain, 

When  the  black  stove  grows  hungry,  and  the  dry 

Deep  kitchen  box  demands  a  fresh  supply. 

Ten  times  the  barrow,  loaded,  piles  its  pieces 

High  at  the  woodshed  end,  till  all  the  creases 

Fold  a  fair  week  of  darkness,  and  the  dented 

Chopping  block  is  with  cold  wounds  contented. 

There  is  one  root  the  garden  still  can  give. 

Under  the  snow,  under  the  stubble,  live 

Our  golden  parsnips,  planted  and  forgotten. 

Nothing  of  them  is  altered  or  frost-rotten. 

The  blunt  pick  thuds  in  the  ground,  and  up  they  heave: 

A  miracle  for  winter  to  believe. 

I  bring  them  in  for  dinner  on  this  day; 

And  while  the  kettle,  boiling  their  ice  away, 

Fills  half  a  room  with  steam  I  take  the  road 

Once  more,  to  curiosity's  abode: 

That  box  where  now  the  mail  man  will  have  been. 

Arriving  slow,  I  thrust  my  fingers  in; 

Draw  letters  forth,  a  bundle,  or  a  card; 

And  out  of  time  abstracted  pace  the  hard 

White  ground  again  to  where  three  wait  for  me. 

No  ancient  courier  with  a  kings  decree 

Rode  ever  up  a  hill  and  brought  so  much 

As  these  chilled  messages  the  mind  can  touch, 

Restoring  warmth,  reviving  every  word 

That  yesterday  with  its  own  motion  stirred. 

Meanwhile  the  boys  have  had  their  little  school: 

Two  pupils  and  a  mother,  mild  of  rule, 

Who  after  beds  were  made  and  dinner  planned, 

Called  them  to  where  the  home-built  easels  stand 

And  where  the  primer  waits  that  one  can  read. 

The  younger  mind  admits  a  younger  need: 


A  WINTER  DIARY  405 

Long  blocks  that  tilt  together  till  a  boat 
Sits  sailing;  or  a  castle  with  a  moat; 
Or  dungeon  towers  to  keep  a  kitten  in— 
The  almond-eyed  four-footed  Saracen. 
To  painting  then:  tongues  out  and  foreheads  glowing. 
With  bannerets  of  bright  vermilion  flowing 
Over  and  up  and  down;  or  blues,  or  blacks, 
Full  to  the  very  corners  past  the  tacks. 
One  thing  remains:  a  paragraph  to  trace 
On  paper  from  the  blackboard's  printed  face. 
The  boy  leans  long  upon  the  table  leaf, 
Procrastinating;  for  the  task  was  brief, 
And  both  of  them  had  still  an  hour  to  play. 
But  there  he  leans,  unwilling,  till  the  day 
Brings  twelve;  and  half-past  twelve;  and  brings  the  white 
Sealed  letters  that  are  now  the  noons  delight. 
So  dinner,  and  a  nap  for  everyone 
Where  neither  snow  may  enter  nor  the  sun. 
So  then  the  afternoon,  that  still  is  short- 
Midwinter  lags  behind  the  sky's  report: 
Each  day  a  little  longer,  but  the  dark 
Comes  down  before  a  coaster  may  remark. 
While  there  is  light  we  seek  the  genial  store, 
Off  by  the  covered  bridge;  or  wanting  more, 
Ride  over  two  east  ranges  to  the  town 
Of  brass  that  bore  the  body  of  John  Brown. 
Here  pavements  like  a  puzzle  run  and  spread; 
And  here  a  shop  front,  gold  by  gaudy  red, 
Demands  immediate  entrance;  for  a  dime 
Buys  anything,  land-born  or  maritime: 
A  ball,  a  wooden  car,  a  masted  boat, 
An  outboard  motor  that  will  never  float; 
A  magnet's  curve,  completed  by  a  bar; 
A  leaden  blue  policeman  with  his  star. 
So  home  across  the  ranges,  past  the  edge 
Of  evening,  till  the  last  high-drifted  hedge 
Declares  the  clear  necessity  of  chains. 
So  out  to  frosty  spokes  and  windy  lanes 
Where  the  snow,  blowing,  whips  the  wrist  and  scatters; 
Then  upward,  while  a  broken  chain-link  clatters; 


406  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

Upward  into  the  barn,  the  engine  dying 

Soundless;  but  the  ponies  are  replying, 

Huddled  before  the  big  one  at  the  gate. 

Scarcely  we  listen,  for  we  estimate 

Two  hours  this  side  of  supper.  Time  for  tea. 

We  light  the  lamps  and  sip  the  mystery, 

Cup  after  shadowy  cup,  with  toasted  cheese. 

There  are  no  country  moments  like  to  these; 

When  afternoon  is  night,  and  night  belongs 

Like  a  dark  heirloom  of  descended  songs 

To  four  that  sit  in  solitude  and  hear  them 

Through  the  fond  nothingness  that  nestles  near  them. 

From  the  warm  circle  of  the  shaded  lamp 

At  last  I  walk  to  where  the  ponies  stamp 

And  the  tall  guardian  mare  is  loud  with  thirst. 

A  boy  with  lighted  lantern  sheds  the  first 

Long  pair  of  scantling  shadows  on  the  snow; 

While  I,  the  water-bearer,  dimly  go 

Through  the  great  backward  crescent  drawn  behind  us. 

There  have  been  evenings  when  she  would  not  mind  us— 

The  lurking  mare,  complacent  down  the  meadow. 

But  now  a  clear  low  whistle  cleaves  her  shadow, 

Precipitately  arriving.  So  we  lead  her, 

Plunging,  past  the  corner  post;  and  heed  her 

Sighing  as  she  nuzzles  in  the  pail. 

The  lantern  from  a  high  and  rusty  nail 

Swings  gently,  casting  circles  on  the  hay. 

The  kittens  somewhere,  noiselessly  at  play, 

Keep  watch  of  us,  and  scan  the  waiting  door. 

They  love  a  barn,  but  love  the  kitchen  more; 

And  lessons  still  may  linger  in  each  mind 

Of  the  long  milkless  night  they  sat  confined. 

We  leave  the  ponies  munching  in  their  room 

And  blow  our  lantern  black,  resolved  to  come 

By  starlight  home— Orion  and  the  Bears 

Low-shining;  but  aloft  upon  the  stairs, 

Bright  Castor  holding  Pollux  by  the  hand. 

Now  endless  evening,  like  a  painted  band, 

Starts  moving,  moving  past  us,  and  we  seize, 

Soft-reaching,  all  that  momently  can  please. 


A  WINTER  DIARY  407 

There  is  an  hour  for  singing,  when  the  book 

Lies  open,  and  a  rolling  eye  may  look 

For  prompting  at  the  words  of  Nelly  Gray, 

Darby  and  Joan,  The  Miller,  Old  Dog  Tray; 

Malbrouck  that  went  to  war,  and  Hoosen  Johnny; 

Or  over  the  ocean,  over  the  sea  my  bonnie. 

The  dominoes  that  once  amused  us  well 

Lie  in  their  box  and  envy  bagatelle, 

Whose  twenty  balls,  thrust  up  the  tilted  board, 

Pause  and  return— click,  click— a  thousand  scored! 

With  game  or  song  the  clock  goes  round  to  eight: 

Past  time  for  two  to  sleep,  whose  laggard  gait 

We  must  not  hope  to  hurry  up  the  landing. 

Each  elder  then  knows  where  a  book  is  standing, 

Tall  on  the  crowded  table;  and  begins 

What  may  go  on  until  the  darkness  thins: 

Page  after  page  upturned  against  the  light. 

For  so  it  was,  on  such  a  nipping  night, 

That  Holmes,  or  Doctor  Thorndyke,  heard  the  bell 

And  raced  with  lawless  death  to  Camberwell; 

Or  Watson,  in  an  alley  with  his  master, 

Felt  the  steel  fingers  as  a  crutch  came  faster: 

Tapping,  tapping,  tapping,  till  the  court 

Blazed  with  a  sudden  pistol's  blind  report. 

This  is  the  hour,  and  this  the  placeless  room 

For  smooth  concocted  tales  of  lust  and  doom; 

This  the  remote,  the  sanctuary  year 

When  the  safe  soul  must  fabricate  a  fear. 

Many  a  milder  evening  passes,  too, 

With  Royal  Casino,  Rummy,  and  a  few 

Swift-changing  hands  of  High-Low-Jack-and-the-Game. 

But  then  three  weeks  ago  the  chess  men  came; 

Since  when,  no  night  so  busy  that  it  misses 

The  march  of  angry  Queens,  whose  scalloped  tresses, 

Stiffly  erected,  fly  to  guard  a  King. 

We  are  two  novices,  and  rashly  fling 

Pawns,  bishops,  knights,  and  rooks  into  the  fray; 

Yet  time  and  blood  have  taught  us  wiser  play. 

There  was  a  gift  at  Christmas  time  of  Tarot— 

Untaught,  but  we  can  shuffle  them  and  harrow 


4o8  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

A  lareless  mind  with  him,  the  Hanging  Man; 
So  all  those  numbered  mysteries  that  plan 
What  future  folds  the  player,  and  what  past 
Is  carved  upon  the  great  Tower  overcast, 
So  every  wand  and  pentacle  and  sword 
Lies  curious,  unfathomed,  on  the  hoard. 
We  have  been  known,  as  never  back  in  town, 
To  idle  till  the  clock  weights  settled  down, 
And  till  the  sound  of  ticking  ceased  unheard. 
We  have  rejoiced  some  evenings  at  the  word 
Of  neighbors  driving  over;  when  the  names, 
Smith,  Prentice,  Landeck,  interrupted  games 
With  something  else  of  equal  clear  delight. 
For  there  was  talking  now  into  the  night, 
With  news  of  health,  and  trips  away  from  home, 
And  how  the  kitchen  beer  went  all  to  foam. 
Gossip  of  Hautboy,  Dibble,  and  Great  Hill, 
Gossip  and  jest  and  argument,  until: 
Goodbye,  Smith,  Landeck,  Prentice;  come  again; 
Goodnight.  And  so  a  day  is  ended  then. 
Each  four  and  twenty  hours,  until  we  rise, 
Go  thus.  And  thus  the  holy  winter  flies. 

. . .  February  flies,  with  little  summers 
Hidden  in  its  beard:  unlicensed  mummers 
Performing  April  antics  for  a  day. 
The  sun  from  the  horizon  swings  away; 
The  sky  melts  upward,  and  a  windless  hand 
Scatters  the  seeds  of  warmth  along  the  land. 
They  will  not  grow,  for  ice  is  underneath, 
And  every  creature  tastes  it.  But  a  wreath 
Lies  thrown  by  playful  chance  upon  the  smiling 
Meadows  that  a  season  is  beguiling. 
Today  was  so,  but  we  were  not  deceived; 
Though  what  the  wolf-dog  and  the  cats  believed 
There  is  no  art  of  knowing.  They  pursued 
Our  every  venturing  step  and  found  it  good: 
Down  the  crisp  meadows  to  the  aspen  grove; 
Over  the  highway,  where  a  salesman  drove 


A  WINTER  DIARY  409 

Dry  wheels  on  dry  macadam;  then  the  neck 
Of  Harrisons  pasture  to  the  Hollenbeck. 
We  stood,  the  seven  walkers,  on  a  stone 
And  watched  the  river,  waveless  and  alone, 
Go  slipping,  slipping  under,  gravelly  clear. 
Snippy,  a  mile  from  nowhere,  crouched  to  peer 
At  nothing  in  the  sand;  then  bolder  sat. 
Three  weeks,  we  said,  and  she  would  be  a  cat 
With  fearsome  crying  kittens  of  her  own. 
Ten  months  with  us,  no  more,  and  nearly  grown! 
So  Snappy,  arriving  plump  and  solemn  there, 
Good-natured  sat,  the  guardian  of  the  pair. 
There  was  a  barn  foundation  to  explore, 
Ancient  of  fields  beyond.  The  rotting  floor 
Forewarned  us,  and  we  did  not  enter  in; 
But  strolled,  and  where  tall  timothy  had  been 
Lay  half  an  hour  on  stubble  under  the  sun; 
While  Sam,  excited  by  a  scent,  must  run 
Low-whining  up  the  fences;  till  a  voice 
Recalled  him,  and  we  made  the  hapless  choice 
Of  eastward  marshy  meadows  for  return. 
The  hummocks  mired  us,  but  a  cat  could  learn 
The  causeway's  secret  truth;  and  what  we  lost 
Came  back  to  us  at  home  with  tea  and  toast. 

. . .  Since  yesterday  a  hundred  years  have  gone. 
The  fore-and-after  season,  living  on, 
Rouses  itself  and  finds  its  bitter  breath. 
This  wind  holds  on  to  winter  as  to  death. 
There  is  no  end,  we  say,  and  sauntering  out, 
Northwestward  lean  till  we  are  whirled  about, 
Mute  neck  and  shoulders  stinging  with  the  snow; 
Or  on  this  Sunday  morning  think  to  go, 
Foot-heavy,  where  the  giant  maples  spread 
Their  smooth  enormous  branches,  long  since  dead. 
Still  in  this  waste  of  wind  they  do  not  fall; 
But  stiffen,  like  old  serpents  sent  to  crawl 
On  dense,  on  layered  air;  until  the  charm 
Is  lifted,  and  descending  out  of  harm, 


410  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

They  lie  leaf-covered,  rigid  in  decay 
Until  the  lust  small  worm  has  turned  away. 
Here  in  the  woodland  clearings  they  patrol, 
'The  wind  drives  steadily  upon  its  goal. 
But  yonder  where  the  hemlocks  lace  together 
There  is  a  sudden  calm,  a  death  of  weather. 
The  shade  is  black,  as  once  in  late  July 
When  here  we  walked  escaping  yellow  sky. 
The  shade  is  black  and  even,  and  the  snow 
Comes  filtered  to  the  open  cones  below: 
Slowly,  slowly,  slowly;  strange  the  hush, 
Here  in  this  darkened  desert  of  the  thrush. 
No  hermits  now;  yet  bands  of  chickadees 
Tread  fearless  of  us,  chirping  in  the  trees. 
The  ferns  of  June  are  withered  on  the  rocks 
Midway  the  icy  stream  that  bends  and  locks 
This  needled  promontory  where  we  stand. 
Oh,  happy  time!  when  nothing  makes  demand; 
When  all  the  earth,  surrendering  its  strength, 
Regains  a  taller  potency  at  length; 
Sleeps  on  in  purest  might  of  nothing  done 
Till  summer  heaves  on  high  the  exacting  sun. 

. . .  Ice  everywhere,  a  comic  inch  of  it. 
Four  veteran  walkers  of  a  sudden  sit 
Wide-sprawling;  but  the  cat  that  went  so  sure 
Waits  in  the  shed,  distrustful  and  demure. 
On  this  one  day  the  dark  mare,  left  inside, 
Stands  munching  while  the  startled  ponies  slide— 
Their  path  a  river,  and  the  river  frozen— 
Until  a  barns  captivity  is  chosen. 
Ice  everywhere;  but  over  Goshen  way 
Ice  on  the  mountains:  murderous  display. 
Down  the  wild  road  to  where  the  lanes  were  dry 
We  crept  on  crunching  chains;  then  letting  fly, 
Passed  houses  till  we  gained  the  known  plateau. 
Yet  now  no  more  familiar,  for  the  glow 
Of  crystals,  like  an  ocean,  blinded  eyes 
Untutored  in  the  way  a  forest  dies: 


A  WINTER  DIARY  411 

Slim  birch  and  maple,  sycamore  and  larch 

Bent  low  before  the  mysteries  of  March; 

Bent  glassy-low,  or  splintered  to  a  heap 

Of  glittering  fragments  that  the  sunrays  sweep— 

The  sun,  ironic,  heartless,  come  to  glance 

At  death  and  beauty  shivering  in  a  dance. 

. . .  I  have  been  absent  through  the  ending  days 
Of  March  beyond  the  mountains,  where  the  ways 
Of  all  the  world  drive  onward  as  before. 
I  have  been  absent  from  the  windy  door; 
Have  gazed  on  travel-mornings  out  of  flying 
Windows  at  a  distant  winter  dying. 
But  not  our  own,  I  said;  and  still  believe 
There  will  be  news  at  home  of  its  reprieve. 
Nothing  of  that  can  change.  And  yet  the  doubt 
Creeps  into  me  as  I  look  homesick  out 
On  farms  that  are  reminding  me  of  one 
Not  distant  now,  beneath  the  selfsame  sun. 
A  further  valley,  and  a  further  range, 
And  I  shall  see  if  anything  be  strange. 
Another  dozen  stations,  and  the  three 
I  have  been  absent  from  will  run  to  me, 
And  tell  me  if  they  know.  At  which  the  tears 
Come  premature,  and  stillness  stops  my  ears. 

. . .  That  very  Wednesday,  going  to  Great  Hill, 
The  ruts  all  melted  and  the  road  was  swill; 
The  hub  caps  foundered,  and  a  number  plate 
Rose  out  of  mire  to  recognize  the  spate. 
All  underground  was  overflowing  for  us, 
Helpless  until  a  wakened  workhorse  bore  us, 
Backward,  absurd,  to  dry  macadam  land. 
So  April,  with  a  wild  unwelcome  hand, 
Showers  proof  upon  us  here  of  winter  gone. 
Our  visitors  on  Friday  night  are  wan: 
Town-tired,  and  do  not  know  it  till  we  tell  them. 
The  stripling  cats,  until  we  thought  to  bell  them, 
Havocked  among  the  juncos,  dropped  to  feed 
On  what  the  lawn  still  held  of  husk  or  seed. 


412  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

A  hundred  misty  bellies  and  blue  backs 
Move  unmolested  northward,  leaving  tracks 
On  certain  darker  mornings  when  a  flurry 
Satins  the  ground— not  deep  enough  to  worry 
Those  busy  bills  that,  helped  by  hopping  feet, 
Find  out  the  fruit  of  barberries  and  eat. 
The  apple  barrels,  picked  over,  have  revealed 
How  many  Baldwins  never  will  be  peeled; 
The  fungus  spreads,  and  spots  of  deathly  white 
Show  where  the  teeth  of  time  have  been  to  bite. 
The  wolf-dog  has  abandoned  us  by  day; 
He  is  in  love  across  the  scented  way. 
Nothing  can  keep  him  when  the  wind  arrives; 
He  chews  his  chain,  or  alternately  strives 
Till  the  round  collar  slips  and  he  goes  running. 
The  ponies'  noses  have  as  old  a  cunning. 
There  is  no  forage  yet,  but  they  can  smell 
Green  tropics  creeping  hither,  and  will  fell 
Each  night  a  length  of  fence  for  dumb  escape; 
Then  stumble  back  at  breakfast  time  and  gape, 
Wit-withered,  at  the  breach  they  cannot  solve. 
So,  as  the  weeks  implacably  revolve 
Of  early,  windy  April,  come  the  sprays 
Of  wood  viburnum  in  the  pathless  ways 
Where  rocks  and  bent  witch-hazel  bougjks  declare 
Once  more  their  truce,  awakening  to  air. 
So,  as  the  world  turned  sunward,  Snippy  died. 
In  the  dim  middle  of  a  night  she  cried, 
Desperate  upon  the  steps;  and  lived  a  day. 
But  we  have  laid  her  slenderly  away. 
Her  young  within  her  she  was  not  to  bear; 
So  Snappy  sits  disconsolately  there, 
Under  the  branching  crabtree;  faced  about, 
Fixed  on  the  clods,  as  if  to  stare  her  out. 

. . .  Spring  is  not  yet;  though  how  can  this  be  long: 
This  crush  of  silence,  this  untimely-wrong, 
Wide,  cruel  weight  of  whiteness,  wing-descended 
Even  as  we  declared  the  winter  ended? 


A  WINTER  DIARY  413 

Last  night  it  happened.  Everything,  unwarned, 
Suffered  the  soundless  swoop  of  him  the  Horned, 
The  Universal  Owl,  whose  ruthless  plumes 
Settled  like  death,  distributing  our  dooms; 
No  feather  heavy,  but  the  sum  of  all 
Seemed  ultimate:  earth's  sepulchre  and  pall. 
Not  a  flake  settled  on  the  flimsiest  twig 
But  stayed;  until  this  morning  all  were  big 
With  monstrous  moveless  worms,  that  in  the  sun 
Drip  swiftly;  but  the  evil  has  been  done. 
How  fair  it  was  last  evening,  when  our  lamp 
Shone  out  on  fleecy  lilacs;  yet  the  damp, 
The  clammy  hand  of  this  last  dying  snow- 
How  terrible  to  touch,  and  inly  know: 
This  is  the  breaking  end.  So  now  at  noon, 
Divided,  we  behold  the  orchard  strewn 
With  murdered  buds  and  down-demolished  branches. 
So,  by  the  graveyard,  death  upon  its  haunches 
Sits  in  the  form  of  great-grandfather-pine's 
Chief  est  of  giant  limbs,  whose  blackened  lines 
Trace  there  a  new  design  of  death  across 
Bare  stones  for  whom  no  novelty  of  loss, 
No  morning  news  of  woe  can  tell  them  more 
Than  that  another  winter  shuts  the  door. 
Divided  thus— admiring,  yet  appalled— 
We  watch  the  season,  poor,  unfuneralled, 
Pass  with  no  mourners  on;  and  recognize 
What  most  we  loved  here  impotent  to  rise. 
If  any  sight  could  soften  us  to  spring, 
It  is  this  melted,  this  emaciate  thing. 

. .  .So  April's  plumefall  was  the  last  one;  leaving 
Nothing  behind  save  midmonth  warmth,  and  heaving 
Roots,  rain-drenched  on  many  a  sodden  day. 
Now  even  the  rain  is  gone,  that  kept  us  grey; 
Even  the  rain,  preserving  darkness  too. 
After  the  flood  dry  weather,  hot  and  blue, 
Washed  every  stain  of  winter  off,  and  brightly 
Gave  us  this  world,  so  changeable  and  sightly: 


414  MARK  VAN  DOREN 

Grass  upon  the  mountains;  smokeless-green 

May  fire  that  will  not  languish  till  the  lean, 

Brown,  bitten  earth,  monotonous  with  stone, 

Hides  under  hotness,  leafy  and  alone; 

Shade  everywhere— as  here  beneath  the  crab, 

Where  Snippy  lies,  and  rumors  of  Queen  Mab 

Bring  bees  to  set  the  blossoms  in  a  roar 

While  marvelling  children  pace  the  petalled  floor; 

Shade  then  for  her,  the  borrowed  Tabby,  lying 

With  three  new  kittens,  curious  and  crying: 

The  summers  offspring,  not  to  be  confused 

With  those  somehow  more  brave  that  March  misused. 

Now  the  sleek  mare  is  shod  again,  and  trots 

Each  day  beneath  her  mistress,  over  lots 

Green-rising,  or  along  a  sandy  road: 

Each  of  them  glad,  the  bearer  and  the  load; 

But  I  that  walk  to  meet  them  down  the  lawn 

Remember  lazy  mornings  lost  and  gone: 

Remember  the  cold,  remember  the  lantern,  hanging 

There  by  her  nose  at  night,  and  blizzards  banging 

Somewhere  a  shabby  door;  and  my  decision 

Goes  to  the  old,  the  February  vision. 

How  old  it  is  now,  only  a  rake  and  spade; 

Only  a  wolf-dog,  panting  in  the  shade; 

Only  a  coatless,  an  oblivious  pair 

Of  boys  for  whom  all  days  to  come  are  fair; 

Only  her  warm  hand,  patting  down  the  seed 

Where  sunlight  lingers  and  the  frost  is  freed; 

Only  the  hay-land,  live  again  with  snakes; 

Only  these  things  can  say  what  memory  aches— 

Oh,  vainly— to  recapture;  only  such 

Can  tell  of  the  holy  time  our  blood  will  touch— 

Oh,  never  again,  and  never;  only  June, 

Thai  sings  of  something  over  deathly  soon. 

Already  the  mind's  forgetfulness  has  blended 

Music  with  music;  and  the  months  are  ended. 


Daybreak 

A  Radio-Play 
BY  NORMAN  CORWIN 

Music:  Prelude,  continuing  under: 

pilot.  A  day  grows  older  only  when  you  stand  and  watch  it  coming 
at  you.  Otherwise  it  is  continuous.  If  you  could  keep  a  half  de- 
gree ahead  of  sunup  on  the  world's  horizons,  you'd  see  new  light 
always  breaking  on  some  slope  of  ocean  or  some  patch  of 
land.  A  morning  can  be  paced  by  trailing  night.  This  we  shall 
do:  where  we  begin  we  shall  return  to,  circling  the  earth  mean- 
while. 

Music:   Up  full,  then  into   Variation  Number  i,  continuing 
under: 

pilot.  We  are  at  latitude  400  north  and  longitude  250  west.  We  will 
come  back  here  at  the  circle's  end.  But  now  beneath  us  there  is 
water,  nothing  else:  the  long  Atlantic,  flowing  to  the  north:  cir- 
rus clouds  resembling  herringbone,  high  up.  Along  the  curving 
fringe,  ten  thousand  miles  from  top  to  bottom  of  the  globe,  are 
only  islands,  very  far  apart;  some  atolls  in  the  South  Atlantic, 
icebergs  off  the  Sandwich  archipelago.  The  rim  of  light  is  touch- 
ing now  one  continent  alone,  of  all  the  mainlands  it  will  over- 
take today:  the  eastern  shores  of  Greenland.  Southwest  of  the 
Cape  Verde  Islands  there's  a  thunderstorm— not  much:  a  little 
rain:  some  grumbling  from  a  cumulus. 

Fade  in  thunder  after  the  words,  "Cape  Verde  Islands" 

pilot.  Through  it,  unruffled,  plows  a  tramp  from  Capetown,  headed 
for  the  Caribbean.  There  is  a  hint  of  day  to  starboard,  and  a 

415 


416  NORMAN  CORWIN 

smudge  of  night  to  port;  thunder  above.  The  striking  of  the 
hour  is  expected  momentarily  inside  the  wheelroom. 

Meanwhile  the  course  is  west  nor'west. 

See  for  yourself. 

Music:  Out. 

Fade  in  light  wind,  water,  thunder  M.F.,  and  low,  muffled  mo- 
tor of  tramp  steamer. 

Ship's  bell  striking  eight.  Wheelhouse  door  open  and  shut— neat 
click  of  lock,  and  closing. 

mate.  Okay,  Johnnie,  I'll  take  over  now. 

johnnie.  Hi  ya. 

mate.  You  look  as  though  you  could  use  some  shut-eye. 

johnnie.  Hasn't  been  a  bad  stretch.  Storm's  not  much. 

mate.  Gimme  some  tobacco  before  you  go,  will  you? 

johnnie.  Sure,  take  the  rest  of  this  can.  Have  some  more  in  the 
locker. 

mate.  Thanks.  What's  the  course? 

johnnie.  Eleven  point  six  by  thirty-one  point  four.  Course  west  nor'- 
west, two  degrees.  Steady  as  she  goes. 

mate.  Right.  (Yawning.)  Well— I  hope  the  old  man's  in  a  better  hu- 
mor than  he  was  on  my  last  watch.  Thought  he  was  goin'  to  eat 
the  glass  right  outa  the  binnacle  lamp. 

johnnie  (chuckles).  Yeah,  he's  been  on  the  prod  for  the  last  three 
days.  Well,  see  ya  later. 

Door  open  and  shut.  Fade  entire  background  effect  down  and 
out  as: 

Music:  In;  up;  and  behind: 

pilot.  The  tramp's  a  hundred  miles  behind  us  now— as  quick  as  that; 
the  thunder  also.  Now  the  sun's  antennae  reach  another  five  de- 
grees yet  west  of  Greenwich.  Nothing  now  but  water  south  of 
Greenland,  clear  down  past  the  humid  zones  of  the  equator, 
down  the  easy  ground  swells  to  the  barriers  of  ice  in  the 
Antarctic. 

Music:  Segue  to  Variation  Number  2  and  quicken  under: 


DAYBREAK  417 

pilot.  That  dark  shape  coming  toward  us  is  the  bulge  of  South 
America,  the  coastline  of  Brazil.  Now  you  can  smell  the  spices 
in  the  offshore  breeze.  That's  Pernambuco  over  there;  the  green 
light  'way  below  us  is  the  airport  at  Natal. 

Now  in  succession  come  the  mountain  ranges,  like  slow-turn- 
ing gears.  That  string  of  lights  is  Rio.  The  coast  spreads  wider, 
north  and  south,  and  for  the  first  time  you  begin  to  sense  this 
is  a  continent,  rotating  hugely  toward  the  sun.  The  endless  for- 
ests in  the  Matto  Grosso,  they  are  tipped  with  light;  the  jungle 
life's  astir,  the  birds  a-twitter;  to  the  north,  the  great  mouth  of 
the  Amazon  yawns  wide,  the  islands  in  it  looming  suddenly. 

Music:  Fading  under: 

pilot.  Yet  at  this  very  moment  day  is  touching  on  the  continent  of 
North  America— the  shores  of  Newfoundland.  Fog's  drifting  in 
from  the  Grand  Banks;  we  cannot  see  the  chimneys  of  St.  John's. 

Faint  foghorn. 

pilot.  The  whole  Atlantic  seaboard,  Eastport  to  Key  West,  is  still  in 
darkness.  Further  down  the  hemisphere,  light  picks  its  way 
among  the  Lesser  Antilles,  spreads  out  down  Venezuela,  down 
the  Gran  Chaco,  the  Pampas  of  the  Argentine— stirs  sleepers 
in  their  sleep  in  Buenos  Aires.  In  the  Sertao  of  Bahia,  beyond 
the  reach  of  tourists  and  authorities,  the  forbidden  dance  of  the 
mecumba  pauses  while  a  priestess  invokes  the  spirit  of  the 
dawn. 

mecumba  singer.  The  "Xango." 

Silence  for  a  moment  after  song. 

pilot.  Back  further  in  the  jungle,  where  the  Negro  River  cuts  a 
swath,  the  tropic  black  is  still  unbroken.  (Pause.) 

Music:  Variation  Number  3. 

pilot.  But  north  again,  north-north,  beyond  the  rain,  the  moun- 
tains, over  the  rooftops  of  Caracas,  over  the  Indies,  dawn  is  com- 
ing now  to  Hancock  County,  Maine.  There  in  Penobscot  Bay, 
a  lobster  fisherman  rides  home  with  light  of  day  behind  him, 


418  NORMAN  CORWIN 

and  a  lighthouse  just  ahead.  On  his  way  in  he  meets  a  neighbor 
pulling  up  lobster  pots. 

One-cylinder  putt-putt  of  a  small  fishing  boat. 

lem.  How  they  runnin',  Manny? 

manny.  Only  eight  so  far  in  two  strings.  Crabs  mostly.  They  eat  the 

danged  bait  till  they  ain't  nothin'  left  for  the  lobsta. 
lem.  Same  with  me.  Guess  the  bottom's  dryin'  up,  dang  it. 
manny.  My  old  lady  said  she'd  throw  me  outa  the  house  if  I  di'n 

bring  one  home. 
lem.  Well  .  .  .  (Motor  picking  up.)  good  luck,  Manny.  Hope  you  fill 

'er  to  the  scuppers. 
manny.  So  long,  Lem. 

Music:  Variation  Number  4, 

pilot.  Even  as  we  lingered,  day  has  trickled  down  the  coast,  past 
Portland,  past  the  rocking  spars  of  fishing  boats  in  Gloucester, 
over  the  dam  at  Lawrence,  and  the  gas  tank  in  Lynn;  and  on 
Shore  Drive  at  Winthrop  jogs  a  milk-cart,  going  about  its  busi- 
ness on  rubber  tires. 

Horse  hooves  in.  Cart  stops.  Footsteps  on  stone;  footsteps  up- 
stairs; bottle  clinks.  Downstairs;  steps  on  stone.  Cart  resumes. 
So  does: 

pilot.  And  this  young  light  which  makes  milk  bottles  pink  in  Win- 
throp, and  begins  to  lift  the  land-fog  from  Cape  Cod,  also  at 
this  very  moment  reddens  the  high  peak  of  Aconcagua  in  the 
Andes  of  the  Argentine— the  highest  peak  in  all  the  ranging 
hemisphere. 

Music:  Variation  Number  5  begins  under  the  words,  "land-fog 
from  Cape  Cod." 

pilot.  It  washes  over  narrow  Chile,  too,  and  skips  across  the  triple 
mountain  ranges  of  Peru,  to  gleam  at  last  from  breakers  on  the 
long  Pacific  shore. 

Cape  Horn  and  Sandy  Hook  are  tinctured  now;  Magellan's 
windy  straits,  Columbus'  San  Salvador,  and  Henry  Hudson's 
river  all  are  lighted  by  the  same  oncoming  dawn.  The  highest 


DAYBREAK  419 

mountain  and  the  highest  building  meet  the  morning  in  the 
same  hushed  moment.  Thirty-fourth  Street  in  Manhattan  is 
awash  with  prophecy  of  day.  A  little  north  by  east  of  where  the 
Empire  State  is,  underground  at  Madison  and  Fifty-third,  a 
stranger  in  Manhattan  tries  to  find  his  way. 

Slight  echo  in  for  hollow  sound  of  empty  subway  at  night.  Foot- 
steps descending  metal-stripped  stairs;  train  up  and  out  of  sta- 
tion well  in  background.  Click  of  coin. 

man  (heavy  Southern  accent).  Change,  please. 

Several  coins  slid  along  counter. 

man.  Can  y'all  tell  me  whut  train  Ah  take  for  the  George  Washing- 
ton Bridge? 

attendant.  Lessee.  .  .  ,  Go  down  to  the  first  level.  Take  any  train. 
If  it's  an  F  train,  get  off  at  the  next  stop,  Fiftieth  and  Sixth 
Avenoo  .  .  . 

man.  Look,  Mister,  I  want  to  go  uptown! 

attendant.  Yeah,  Mac,  but  these  trains  all  happen  to  go  downtown, 
so  you  hafta  change.  So  get  off  at  Fiftieth  and  Sixth  Avenoo  an' 
then  cross  over  to  the  uptown  side.  Then  take  a  train  marked 
D  an'  get  off  at  Columbus  Soicle— Fifty-ninth  Street.  Then  wait 
fer  an  A  train  on  the  same  track,  an'  that'll  take  ya  right  to  the 
bridge  at  179th  Street. 

man  (rehearsing).  Change  at  Fiftieth  and  Sixth  Avenue— take  a  train 
marked  D  to  Columbus  Circle— an'  then  what? 

attendant.  Then  the  A  train  to  179th. 

man.  Oh  yes,  A  to  179th  Street.  Thank  yuh,  Mister. 

attendant.  Wait  a  minute.  That's  only  for  one  of  the  trains.  If  the 
first  one  through  here's  an  E  train,  take  'er  down  to  Eighth 
Avenoo  and  Forty-second  Street  .  .  . 

man.  Yuh  mean  Ah  hafta  go  downtown  before  Ah  can  go  uptown? 

attendant.  Well,  you  hafta  get  hungry  before  you  can  eat,  doncha? 

man.  Yeah,  but .  .  . 

attendant.  Well,  all  right  then;  so  go  to  Forty-second  Street,  cross 
over,  an'  catch  the  A  train  same  as  before.  Only  difference  is, 
here  you  hafta  go  down  farther  to  do  it.  Okay?  .  .  . 

pilot.  The  morning  is  beyond  the  bridges  of  the  Hudson  now  and 
slanting  through  the  passes  of  the  Appalachians.  The  seaboard's 


420  NORMAN  CORWIN 

brightening;  a  wind  is  playing  with  the  tide  off  Hatteras;  Miami 
looks  alert;  street  lamps  are  turned  off  in  Ottawa.  There's  driz- 
zle over  part  of  Lake  Ontario,  but  Buffalo  is  clear;  and  down- 
stream a  few  honeymooners  are  awake  to  see  day  rising  on  Niag- 
ara Falls.  It  rises  also  now  on  two  canals:  the  Erie  in  New  York 
State,  and  the  Panama.  It's  the  same  slip  of  morning  to  both 
ditches,  though  they  lie  two  thousand  miles  apart. 

Detroit  lights  up  now,  and  the  Smoky  Mountains,  and  Key 
West.  Three  of  the  five  Great  Lakes  have  caught  the  fire;  but  just 
as  dawn  arrives  in  Dayton,  it  departs  beyond  the  western  shores  of 
South  America  into  the  waiting  sea.  In  northern  Indiana  flames 
are  spitting  from  the  forges  of  the  mills  at  Gary.  Under  the  stacks 
and  sooted  roofs,  the  night  shift  labors  on  the  final  stretch. 

Literal  machine  sounds  (crane,  ore  cars,  etc.)  and  suggestion  of 
power  and  machinery  in  music,  but  with  sound  standing  out  in 
relief. 

pilot.  The  Mississippi's  winding  out  of  darkness  now  from  top  to 
bottom  of  the  land;  the  saints  are  all  awake— St.  Paul,  St.  Louis, 
St.  Joe,  St.  Francisville.  And  down  the  very  same  meridian, 
cross-cut  by  the  equator,  sharp  in  the  inclination  of  the  fragile 
light,  is  the  dry  archipelago  of  the  Galapagos. 

Music:  Segues  into  Variation  Number  7. 

pilot.  It's  snowing  now  on  mystic  Boothia,  the  northernmost  penin- 
sula of  North  America;  but  morning  overrides  the  storm.  Here's 
the  magnetic  pole,  which  keeps  all  of  the  world's  compasses 
aquiver.  While  Boothia  is  freezing,  there's  a  light  dew  brewing 
west  of  Omaha,  warm  winds  at  Dallas,  and  gray-green  reflections 
in  the  water  at  the  docks  of  Vera  Cruz. 

Long-brooding  Popocatepetl  rears  his  head  above  a  zone  of 
nimbus  clouds  and  looks  around  to  see  if  all  is  punctual.  Now 
one  vast  sweep  of  plain,  a  sea  of  flatlands  tilted  upward  toward 
the  still  dark  Rockies,  quietly  and  calmly  takes  on  day.  Hun- 
dreds of  rectangle  counties,  county  after  county,  come  into  the 
fold  of  morning.  In  the  town  of  Guthrie— Logan  County,  Okla- 
homa—on the  porch  of  a  house  near  the  Cottonwood,  a  boy  ob- 
serves the  heavens  getting  pale. 

Music:  Out, 


DAYBREAK  421 

Birds  in. 

boy.  Betty— ya  'sleep? 

girl  (sleepily).  No,  I'm  awake. 

boy.  It's  getting  light. 

girl  (stirring  lazily  to  go).  Yeah,  gosh.  I  better  get  in  before  Mom 

wakes  up,  or  I'll  catch  it. 
boy.  Aw,  gee,  don't  go. 
girl.  I  gotta. 

boy.  Your  mother  won't  be  up  for  two  hours. 
girl.  (Makes  a  sound  of  comfortable  pleasure— a  sort  of  chuckling 

noise.  She  is  snuggling  up  to  the  Boy.) 
boy.  Know  something,  Betty?  I  never  been  up  all  night  in  my  life 

before. 
girl.  Me  neither. 

boy.  When  a  feller  likes  a  girl,  he  likes  to  sit  up  with  her. 
girl.  Well,  if  a  girl  likes  a  feller,  it's  about  the  same  thing,  ain't  it? 

I  mean,  in  the  same  way,  sort  of? 
boy.  Yeah.  Gosh,  it's  all  one  and  the  same  thing,  no  matter  how  you 

look  at  it,  I  guess. 
girl.  I  agree  with  you.  (Pause.) 
boy.  Ain't  the  sky  pretty,  though? 
girl.  It's  breath  takingly  beautiful. 

boy.  Wouldn't  it  be  nice  if  we  could  do  this  every  night? 
girl.  It  would  be  divine. 
boy  (touched).  You  really  mean  that,  Betty? 
girl.  Absolutely. 
boy.  Gosh.  (Gulps.)  Thanks.  I  didn't  expect  you  to  say  it  would  be 

divine.  That's  saying  a  lot. 
girl.  Well— I— I  don't  take  back  a  word  of  it. 
boy.  Well,  gee,  Betty,  thanks  a  lot. 

Music:  Variation  Number  8,  proceeding  under: 

pilot.  While  love  awakens  on  a  porch  in  Guthrie,  the  somber  Rocky 
Mountains  watch  the  stars  burn  out  above  the  great  plateaus. 
Ranges  rise  to  block  the  passage  of  the  day,  but  not  for  long. 

Dawn  vaults  them  all,  these  mountains  with  Spanish  names- 
spreads  out  on  the  square  states,  rolls  over  into  Arizona. 

Idling  airplane  motors  in. 


422  NORMAN  CORWIN 

pilot.  At  Tucson's  airport  last  night's  New  York  plane  has  taken  on 
some  breakfast  boxes  for  still  sleeping  passengers  who  will  awake 
above  the  desert  and  drink  orange  juice  at  seven  thousand  feet. 
The  charts  have  all  been  checked,  the  weather  verified,  the  pilot 
gone  up  front;  the  stewardess  has  closed  the  door.  Next  stop, 
Los  Angeles. 

Twin   motors  start;  takeoff.   Cross  to   interior  motor  sounds 
under: 

pilot.  The  plane  is  fast,  but  not  as  fast  as  we,  for  even  now  we're 
over  the  Grand  Canyon,  riotous  with  reds  and  purples— chilling 
with  its  silence  and  its  majesty  a  group  of  tourists  watching 
sunup  from  the  southern  rim. 

mrs.  protheridge.  It  certainly  is  all  it's  cracked  up  to  be,  isn't  it, 
Mrs.  Stuben? 

mrs.  stuben.  It's  gorgeous.  I  seen  it  once  before,  but  it  seems  to  be 
more  gorgeous  every  time  I  see  it.  Look  at  that! 

perry  (life  of  the  party).  Nothing  like  this  in  Brooklyn— hey,  Eddie? 
(Laughs  hard.) 

eddie.  You  got  something  there,  Perry.  .  .  .  You  know,  if  somebody 
painted  this  you  wouldn't  believe  it. 

mrs.  stuben.  That's  absolutely  right. 

mrs.  protheridge.  I  don't  know  about  you,  but  I  wouldn't  like  to 
fall  down  off  one  of  them  cliffs. 

eddie.  Me  neither.  (Pause.)  Ain't  the  silence  wonderful? 

perry.  Did  you  know  that  this  place  can  be  deafening  with  noise 
sometimes? 

eddie.  Is  that  right? 

mrs.  stuben.  It  can? 

perry.  Sure— when  it  makes  a  noise  like  a  canyon!  (Roars  with  laugh- 
ter, which  holds  until  cross-fade  to  music.) 

Music:  Variation  Number  9,  continuing  under: 

pilot.  Death  Valley  comes  to  life.  Mount  Whitney  yawns  and 
stretches.  Ancient  redwood  trees  look  up  with  boredom  at  an- 
other day.  An  owl  screams  in  the  woodlands  of  Yosemite.  The 
sea  fog's  sitting  on  Los  Angeles,  but  Palos  Verdes  and  the  top 
of  Catalina  float  above  the  mists.  Rain  in  Seattle,  heavy  in  Sno- 
homish County;  routine  fog  in  San  Francisco,  lifting.  In  a  caf£ 
on  the  Embarcadero  the  dregs  of  night  still  linger. 


DAYBREAK  423 

Music:  Sloppy  piano  in  after  the  word  " '  Embarcadero ." 

nick.  Sorry,  Mr.  Stewart,  but  you  willa  hafta  go  home.  We  closa 

uppa  now. 
Stewart.  G'wan  away,  li'l  man,  I'm  greatest  composer  since-a  days 

o'  Yasha  Masha  Pasha. 

Music:  Piano  stops. 

nick  (exasperated).  Looka— looka!  Gotta  close  'em  up,  da  cops  taka 

my  license  if  I  don'.  Now  be  good  guys,  g'wan,  be  good  guys. 

It's-a  gettin'  light  already,  look  see. 
Stewart.  Jesh  one  more  piece.  Stacatto  and  fewgwee  by  Johann 

Sebastian  Strauss  .  .  . 
nick.  "One-a  more,  one-a  more"— at's-a  what  you  said  before! 
stewart.  Well,  thish  time,  I'm  man  o'  my  word,  Nicky,  ol'  boy.  I'm 

the  man  behind  the  man  behind  the  man  o'  my  word,  see?  Jesh 

one  more. 

Music:  Playing  begins  anew. 

nick  (hopefully).  Wella— all  right.  Justa  thisa  one. 
stewart  (over  music).  Jesh  thish  one,  jesh  thish.  Now  take  it  easy, 
Nick,  ol'  boy,  you  sit  an'  lissen  .  .  . 

Music:  Piano  cross-fades  to  Variation  Number  10 ,  under: 

pilot.  The  snow  fields  of  the  Yukon  and  the  Klondike  mountains 
lie  face  up,  interpreting  the  soundless  and  mysterious  code  of 
the  aurora  borealis.  The  streamers,  green  and  orange,  shimmer- 
ing in  the  black  Arctic  night,  yield  occultly  to  new  light  from 
behind  the  frozen  ranges  to  the  east. 

The  dawn  is  piqued  and  pinched  here  in  Alaska;  it  is  fuller 
on  the  endless  swells  of  the  Pacific  to  the  south— the  Pacific,  flow- 
ing now  in  space  so  prodigal  that  only  stellar  seas  could  under- 
stand. The  hemisphere  is  falling  back.  McKinley  passes  in  the 
great  processional;  Alaska's  Valley  of  Ten  Thousand  Smokes  turns 
steaming  to  the  sun  from  which  its  planetary  fire  was  drawn 
down.  The  roar  of  Katmai,  angriest  volcano  of  them  all,  abates 
none,  scorning  the  eruption  of  such  placid  stuffs  as  mornings. 

Sound  of  volcano  faded  in  after  "angriest  volcano  of  them  all" 


424  NORMAN  CORWIN 

Roar  up  full,  diminishing  under: 

pilot.  South  as  the  crow  flies— flying  just  about  two  thousand  miles 
—is  another  such  volcano,  set  about  by  sea— Mauna  Loa,  mon- 
arch of  the  glistening  Hawaiian  Islands.  It  stands  frowning 
down  on  fields  of  its  own  lava. 

These  islands  are  romantic  at  night,  to  all  romanticists,  but 
now  at  dawn  in  Honolulu,  where  the  trade  wind  stirs  the  cocoa 
palms,  a  practical  procedure's  taking  place  inside  a  hospital. 
Beneath  the  white  glare  of  the  operating  lamps  a  surgeon  meets 
with  an  emergency. 

Fade  in  quick,  efficient  bustle  of  several  people  moving  around. 
Intermittent  click  of  surgical  instruments. 

anesthetist.  Doctor,  the  pressure's  falling  rapidly,  and  the  pulse  is 

becoming  thready. 
surgeon.  Get  that  transfusion  set  ready.  Doctor  Jones,  you  scrub  for 

transfusion. 
jones.  Right,  sir. 

surgeon.  Is  the  donor  outside,  and  has  he  been  cross-matched? 
nurse.  Yes,  sir. 
surgeon.  All  right,  start  the  transfusion  and  give  him  a  hypo  of 

adrenalin.  (Pause.)  Get  the  large  kidney  clamps  and  the  heavy 

ligature  ready.  (Pause.)  Suction. 

Sound  of  suction  in.  (This  is  steady  hiss  of  air  with  fairly  steady 
gurgle  of  liquid  being  sucked  up  a  tube.)  Pause. 

Sound  of  clamp  being  applied.  (Clamp  has  ratchet-catches  like 
a  handcuff  but  makes  a  smaller,  cleaner  sound.) 

surgeon.  Sponge.  (Pause.) 

jones.  The  pulse  is  becoming  imperceptible  .  .  .  heart  sounds  very 

feeble. 
surgeon.  Inject  some  coramin  into  the  veins. 
jones.  Yes,  sir.  (Pause.)  Doctor,  the  heart  sounds  are  not  audible. 
surgeon.  Massage  his  heart.  (Pause.)  Sponge. 
anesthetist.  Pupils  are  widely  dilated,  Doctor. 
jones.  There's  no  response  from  the  heart  at  all. 
anesthetist.  Doctor,  the  patient  has  ceased  breathing. 
surgeon.  Well  ...  we  did  all  we  could. 


DAYBREAK  425 

pilot.  Northward  at  the  moment  of  this  dawn  death,  the  night's 
pushed  back  entire  from  the  face  of  North  America.  It's  west  of 
Bering  Strait  now,  in  Soviet  Siberia,  pursued  across  the  stepping- 
stones  of  the  Aleutian  Islands.  Daybreak  has  reached  the  180th 
meridian,  where  man,  in  spite  of  all  his  quarreling,  agrees  by 
international  accord  that  here  his  calendar  divides  today  from 
yesterday.  A  liner  headed  for  San  Pedro  crosses  this  imaginary 
line.  On  B  deck  a  woman  is  awake  to  greet  the  moment. 

Sound  of  water  in;  steady,  calm  sea. 

woman.  You  mean  we're  crossing  at  this  very  moment,  officer? 

officer.  Yes,  ma'am. 

woman.  Oh,  it's  so  thrilling!  Just  think,  a  minute  ago  it  was  Sunday 
—now  it's  Saturday!  (Laughs.) 

officer.  Yes,  ma'am.  International  date  line. 

woman.  Does  that  mean  we  are  a  day  ahead  of  the  rest  of  the  world? 

officer  (startled).  Oh,  no!  Where'd  you  get  that  idea? 

woman.  Well,  that's  true,  isn't  it? 

officer.  No,  no,  it  merely  means  that .  .  . 

woman.  Well,  five  hours  ago  it  was  midnight  Saturday,  and  so  it  be- 
came Sunday.  And  now  it's  Saturday  again.  Is  that  fair? 

officer.  Well,  you  see,  madam,  it  works  like  this  .  .  . 

woman.  I  don't  understand  it  very  well. 

officer.  I  think  I  can  explain  it.  Now,  a  ten-day  voyage  from  San 
Francisco  to  Yokohama  will  show  eleven  calendar  days.  But  on 
the  return  trip,  when  we  cross  the  international  date  line  east- 
bound,  like  we  just  did,  we  go  back  one  day  on  the  calendar, 
into  the  old  day,  so  that  means  a  ten-day  trip  eastbound  will 
show  nine  calendar  days,  whereas  the  westbound  voyage  shows 
eleven  calendar  days. 

woman  (plaintively).  But  doesn't  the  ten-day  trip  ever  take  just  ten 
days? 

officer  (patiently).  No,  ma'am.  (Fading.)  Now  let  me  begin  again. 
I  think  I  can  explain  it  all  right.  .  .  .  You  see,  ordinarily  the  day 
changes  with  the  passing  of  midnight.  But  there  are  always  two  cal- 
endar days  on  the  earth's  surface  at  all  times.  This  means  that .  .  . 

Music:  Comes  up,  crossing  with  the  Officer.  It  backs  the  fol- 
lowing: 

pilot.  New  Zealand,  now,  at  the  antipodes,  diagonally  across  the 
world  from  Greenwich.  The  east  coast  of  Australia  catches  day 


426  NORMAN  CORWIN 

as  did  die  east  coast  of  Brazil  twelve  hours  back.  The  sun  now 
gilds  the  gold  fields;  the  sands  of  the  interior  are  tinted  too,  the 
Great  Victoria  Desert  curving  into  the  dry  day. 

Three  thousand  miles  up  the  meridian,  a  pilgrimage  ascends 
the  slopes  of  Fuji.  Those  winding  lights  below  us  are  the  lan- 
terns of  the  faithful,  lanterns  named  for  those  who  carry  them, 
the  Japanese.  And  to  the  north,  there's  Vladivostok  looming  up 
with  lights  across  the  sea;  and  now  the  coast  of  China. 

Night  trails  its  kites  across  the  Philippines,  the  Dutch  East 
Indies,  Borneo.  Deeper  into  China,  up  the  Yangtze,  past  Han- 
kow it  spreads.  But  wait:  those  flicks  of  flame  you  see  far,  far 
below  are  not  the  Chinese  glowworm— those  are  men  at  war,  the 
first  such  spectacle  since  morning  joined  us  at  the  twenty-fifth 
meridian. 

Rifle  fire  in;  hold  very  briefly.  Cross-fade  to: 

Music:  Variation  Number  n,  under: 

pilot.  All  quiet  on  the  Gobi  desert  to  the  north.  Southward  the  night 
is  gone  from  Java  and  Australia  too.  The  guns  of  Singapore  are 
vigilant,  and  scrutinize  the  straits.  Mandalay  lies  under  heavy 
rain  clouds;  otherwise  you'd  make  it  out.  Now  Everest  sees  the 
coming  day  before  all  Asia  to  the  west.  In  fact,  it  is  a  tight 
squeeze  for  the  morning,  getting  by  the  peak  which  roofs  the 
planet. 

Five  hundred  million  people  sleep  in  India,  Afghanistan,  the 
Union  of  the  Soviets.  Dawn  comes  to  each  of  them,  to  each  one's 
window,  arches  over  each  one's  head.  It's  in  the  tundra  in  the 
north  of  Russia,  also  in  the  streets  of  Takhta-Bazar,  and  the  mar- 
ket at  Termez.  At  Troitsk,  the  workers  soundly  sleep. 

Music:  A  sudden  change  of  color  to  underscore: 

pilot.  Now  in  a  sweeping  arc  the  dawn  cuts  through  three  conti- 
nents: still  Asia,  in  the  Urals;  Europe,  where  the  Soviets  draw  a 
line;  and  Africa,  at  easternmost  Somaliland.  The  same  light 
spans  the  Caspian,  the  Persian  Gulf,  the  wildest  desert  of  Arabia. 

Artillery  up  through  music  fragmentarily  for  following  phase: 

pilot.  Below  us  in  the  Syrian  morn  there's  movement:  men  and  guns 
afoot.  (Guns  out.)  There's  stealthy  shipping  in  the  foggy  Bos- 


DAYBREAK  427 

porus.  (Medium  ship  whistle.)  The  power  plant  at  Dneprostroy 
is  working  through  the  dawn. 

Dynamos  in  after  "Dneprostroy" ;  out  after  "dawn" 

pilot.  The  rim  moves  on  to  Finland  now,  at  the  same  time  it  crowns 
the  pyramid  of  Cheops.  In  the  scarlet  break  of  day  the  tombs 
of  the  Egyptian  kings  are  tipped  with  red  lights,  warning  air- 
planes. 

Warring  Europe  starts  up  from  a  fitful  sleep.  The  Congo  in 
the  heart  of  Africa  awakens  tranquilly.  The  morning,  being  a 
celestial  thing,  cannot  begin  to  comprehend.  This  is  the  bleak 
meridian  of  trouble:  Norway,  Poland,  Germany,  Russia,  the 
Balkans,  Libya. 

Muted  bugle  call— reveille— in  background. 

pilot.  Great  camps  and  barracks  in  each  land  anticipate  the  day.  But 
to  the  fields  and  lakes  and  rivers  and  the  partly  stormy  sky,  it's 
all  the  same— it  always  is  the  same. 

Slip  down  the  middle  length  of  Africa:  far  at  the  southern 
tip,  two  albatrosses  circle  lazily  above  the  sparkling  waters  off 
Good  Hope.  Capetown  looks  at  night  across  the  South  Atlantic 
—night— the  very  night  now  solid  in  Brazil. 

Two  farmers  meet  in  Switzerland,  where  their  adjoining  pas- 
tures slope  down  toward  the  valley.  They  say  the  same  thing 
they've  been  saying  now  for  twenty-seven  years  of  mountain 
mornings. 

hans.  Morning,  Peter. 

peter.  Morning,  Hans. 

hans.  Nice  day. 

peter.  Yes,  very  nice. 

hans.  All  well? 

peter.  I  can't  complain.  And  you? 

hans.  Fine,  fine. 

peter.  Good.  See  you  later. 

hans.  See  you  later,  Peter. 

Music:  Variation  Number  12. 

pilot.  The  North  Sea  and  the  Mediterranean  are  both  lit  now,  and 
London  comes  up  out  of  cover.  Greenwich  gives  the  day  a  care- 


428  NORMAN  CORWIN 

less  nod  and  signals  it  the  go-ahead  to  climb  the  west  meridians. 
In  vasty  hushes  the  fresh  morning  cleans  the  traces  of  the  dark 
out  of  the  mid-Sahara.  Off  the  Gold  Coast  of  deep-brooding 
Africa,  in  the  wide  Guinea  Gulf,  there  is  a  fight  between  two 
sharks,  just  at  the  mighty  intersection  where  longitude  and  lati- 
tude each  reach  zero.  Here  the  equator  meets  the  mean  meridian. 
The  green  Atlantic  does  not  know  it,  though.  The  fighting 
sharks  don't  care. 

The  Irish  Sea,  Gibraltar,  and  St.  Helena  swim  up  out  of  the 
Afro-European  night.  Lisbon  and  Morocco  and  Liberia  come 
next;  Dakar  and  the  Canaries;  and  now  all  of  both  continents 
are  in  full  day.  It's  all  in  the  Atlantic  now,  this  far-flung  fringe 
of  daybreak.  We're  moving  west  of  Greenwich  once  again. 

Now  we  are  back  at  latitude  400  north,  and  longitude  250 
west.  And  this  is  where  we  started  from.  Beneath  us  there  is 
water,  nothing  else:  the  long  Atlantic  flowing  to  the  north. 

Music:  Finale  treatment. 


Note  on  a  Forest  Drama 


When  Benjamin  Franklin  in  1753  was  chosen  one  of  three  com- 
missioners to  negotiate  a  treaty  between  the  Province  of  Penn- 
sylvania and  the  Ohio  Indians  at  Carlisle,  it  not  only  marked  the 
beginning  of  his  career  in  diplomacy  but  it  also  required  him  to  take 
part  in  one  of  those  native  ceremonies  which  were  memorable  drama 
before  America  knew  it  had  anything  like  dramatic  performances  or 
dramatic  literature.* 

"The  Indians  were  not,  as  tradition  has  come  to  regard  them,  per- 
petual enemies  in  endless  wars  against  the  white  settlers.  For  three 
or  four  decades  before  1763  the  Six  Nations— Mohawk,  Oneida, 
Onondaga,  Cayuga,  Seneca,  and  the  newly-admitted  Tuscarora— of 
the  Iroquois  Confederation  labored  skillfully  and  wisely  to  keep  the 
peace.  Not  more  than  perhaps  fifteen  thousand  persons  all  together, 
living  in  perhaps  fifty  villages  in  central  New  York,  the  Confedera- 
tion ruled  a  kind  of  empire  from  the  St.  Lawrence  to  the  James, 
from  the  Hudson  nearly  to  the  Mississippi.  Conquered  tribes  paid 
tribute  to  the  Iroquois,  who  alone  claimed  the  right  to  say  who 
should  go  to  war,  and  why  and  when.  South  of  the  Six  Nations  lay 
the  hunting  grounds  of  the  Susquehanna  valley  to  which  the  Iro- 
quois had  assigned  the  Delawares  and  the  Shawnee,  with  smaller 
tribes.  The  Oneida  chief  Shikellamy  took  up  his  official  residence  in 
1728  at  Shomokin  (now  Sunbury),  at  the  forks  of  the  Susquehanna, 
and  there  for  twenty  years  acted  as  the  Confederation's  vice-regent 
for  the  district.  In  1729  Conrad  Weiser,  a  Palatine  who  had  lived 
from  boyhood  in  close  friendship  with  the  Mohawk,  left  New  York 
to  establish  himself  on  a  farm  at  Tulpehocken." 

The  far-sighted  Indian  policy  of  Pennsylvania  owed  much  to  the 

*  The  quoted  portions  of  this  Note  are,  with  the  permission  of  the  Historical  Society 
of  Pennsylvania,  taken  from  my  Introduction  to  the  Society's  Indian  Treaties  Printed 
by  Benjamin  Franklin  1J36-1762  (1938),  edited  by  Julian  P.  Boyd. 

429 


430  CARL  VAN  DOREN 

astute  and  secret  Shikellamy.  "Through  him,  with  Weiser  as  inter- 
preter, Pennsylvania  made  terms  with  the  Six  Nations.  Together 
they  disposed  of  the  Delawares  and  the  Shawnee,  rebellious  tribu- 
taries of  the  Six  Nations,  uncomfortable  neighbors  of  the  Pennsyl- 
vanians.  This  cost  the  Province  a  Delaware-Shawnee  war,  but  it  pre- 
vented what  would  have  been  a  worse  war  with  the  Iroquois.  The 
Six  Nations,  after  their  treaty  with  Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  and 
Virginia  at  Lancaster  in  1 744,  looked  on  Pennsylvania  as  spokesman 
for  the  English  generally.  Canasatego,  chief  of  the  Onandaga,  at 
Lancaster  advised  the  English  to  follow  the  Iroquois  example.  'Our 
wise  Forefathers  established  Union  and  Amity  between  the  Five 
Nations:  this  has  made  us  formidable;  this  has  given  us  great  Weight 
and  Authority  with  our  neighbouring  Nations.  We  are  a  powerful 
Confederacy;  and,  by  your  observing  the  same  Methods  our  wise 
Forefathers  have  taken,  you  will  acquire  such  Strength  and  Power; 
therefore  whatever  befals  you,  never  fall  out  with  one  another.' 
Though  the  colonies  were  slow  in  learning  union  from  the  Indians, 
Pennsylvania's  steady  alliance  with  the  Six  Nations  had  a  large  effect 
in  preserving  the  friendship  of  the  Iroquois  for  the  English.  If  the 
Iroquois  with  their  whole  empire  had  gone  over  to  the  French  they 
might  have  won  the  continent. 

"The  Pennsylvania  treaties  which  maintained  the  alliance  were 
diplomatic  dramas  in  a  form  prescribed  by  Iroquois  ritual  and  for 
years  directed  by  Conrad  Weiser,  the  Pennsylvania  interpreter.  'By 
the  Interpreter's  Advice,'  says  the  earliest  treaty  printed  by  Frank- 
lin, the  chiefs  of  the  Six  Nations  who  had  arrived  at  Stenton  in  1736 
'were  first  spoke  to  in  their  own  Way,  with  three  small  Strings  of 
Wampum  in  Hand,  one  of  which  was  delivered  on  each  of  the  fol- 
lowing Articles,'  presumably  by  Weiser  himself.  Four  days  later,  in 
'the  Great  Meeting-House  at  Philadelphia*  filled  to  the  top  of  the 
galleries  with  curious  citizens,  in  the  presence  of  Thomas  Penn, 
James  Logan,  and  the  Council,  the  Seneca  speaker  for  the  chiefs,  also 
in  their  own  way,  'spoke  as  follows  by  Conrad  Wyser.'  They  had 
come,  he  said,  to  warm  themselves  at  the  hospitable  fire  which  Penn- 
sylvania had  promised  to  keep  'in  this  great  City,'  and  they  desired 
it  would  'ever  continue  bright  and  burning  to  the  End  of  the  World/ 
They  desired  that  the  road  between  Philadelphia  and  the  Six  Na- 
tions might  'be  kept  clear  and  open,  free  from  all  Stops  or  Incum- 
brances.' And  they  desired  that  the  chain  of  friendship  should  be 
preserved  'free  from  all  Rust  and  Spots  .  .  .  not  only  between  this 
Government  and  us*  but  between  all  the  English  Governments  and 


NOTE  ON  A  FOREST  DRAMA  431 

all  the  Indians.'  Business  had  to  wait  on  ceremony,  and  the  whole 
occasion  was  ceremonial. 

"The  forest  metaphors  of  the  Fire,  the  Road,  the  Chain  run 
through  the  treaties  down  to  that  at  Carlisle  in  1753,  when  a  new 
ceremony  was  added,  at  the  request  if  not  the  demand  of  Scarouady, 
chief  and  orator  of  the  Oneida.  He  was  there  in  company  with  chiefs 
or  deputies  of  tributary  Delawares,  Shawnee,  Miami  (Twigh twees), 
and  Wyandots  from  the  Ohio,  where  the  French  were  threatening. 
If  the  English  wanted  to  keep  the  Ohio  Indians  friendly,  so  did  the 
Six  Nations,  firmly  hostile  to  the  French.  The  English  supplied 
the  necessary  gifts  at  the  Carlisle  treaty;  the  Six  Nations  prescribed  the 
ritual  of  giving.  It  was  an  applied  form  of  the  ceremony  of  Condo- 
lences, used  among  the  Iroquois  when  chiefs  or  warriors  had  died 
and  delegates  from  other  nations  came  to  mourn  the  loss. 

"All  these  Ohio  tribes  had  lately  suffered  the  death  of  notable 
men.  Scarouady,  speaking  for  Pennsylvania  as  well  as  for  the  Six 
Nations,  told  the  mourners:  'As  we  know  that  your  Seats  at  Home 
are  bloody,  we  wipe  away  the  Blood,  and  set  your  Seats  in  Order  at 
your  Council  Fire,  that  you  may  sit  and  consult  again  in  Peace  and 
Comfort  as  formerly.'  When  a  string  of  wampum  had  been  given  he 
went  on:  'We  suppose  that  the  Blood  is  now  washed  off.  We  jointly, 
with  our  Brother  Onus  [Pennsylvania],  dig  a  Grave  for  your  War- 
riors, killed  in  your  Country;  and  we  bury  their  Bones  decently; 
wrapping  them  up  in  these  Blankets;  and  with  these  we  cover  their 
Graves.'  Then  the  gifts,  already  laid  out  before  the  Indians,  were 
given  to  them.  Scarouady  ended:  'We  wipe  your  Tears  from  your 
Eyes,  that  you  may  see  the  Sun,  and  that  every  Thing  may  become 
clear  and  pleasant  to  your  Sight;  and  we  desire  you  would  mourn 
no  more.' 

"The  ceremony  of  Condolences  became  as  customary  in  treaties  as 
the  metaphorical  Fire,  Road,  Chain.  The  forms  grew  familiar  to  the 
English,  and  they  expert  in  the  practice  of  them,  but  the  forms  were 
Iroquois.  The  governor  or  the  commissioners  of  Pennsylvania  would 
open  a  treaty  council  with  a  speech  of  several  articles,  presenting 
with  each  of  them  a  string  of  wampum  which  was  for  the  Indians  an 
essential  part  of  the  record.  Usually  the  Indians  would  put  off  their 
answer  to  the  next  day,  to  have  time  to  confer  among  themselves. 
Then  one  of  them,  speaker  for  them  all,  would  take  up  each  article, 
repeating  it  from  a  memory  as  accurate  as  written  minutes,  and  re- 
plying to  it  again  with  formal  wampum.  Though  there  might  be  hun- 
dreds of  Indians  and  white  men  present  at  a  treaty  gathering,  and 


432  CARL  VAN  DOREN 

all  sorts  of  caucuses  offstage,  the  actual  councils  were  grave  and  punc- 
tilious, as  orderly  as  a  trial  before  a  high  court  of  law,  as  straight- 
forward in  action  as  a  good  play.  .  .  . 

The  Iroquois  statesmen  were  perfectly  aware  that  only  by  re- 
maining neutral  could  they  hold  the  balance  of  power,  and  that  only 
so  long  as  they  held  the  balance  of  power  could  they  hope  to  survive 
at  all  in  the  face  of  immensely  superior  numbers  and  wealth.  So,  at 
treaty  after  treaty,  they  schemed  for  English  support  of  the  Confed- 
eration, made  concessions  only  when  they  had  to,  looked  out  for  the 
interests  of  the  Indian  trade,  and  exacted  or  coaxed  whatever  they 
could  in  the  way  of  goods  and  munitions  given  as  peace-making  pres- 
ents by  the  English.  While  their  advantage  lasted,  a  league  of  ragged 
villages  held  off  two  great  empires,  inflexibly  and  proudly  forcing 
the  empires  to  treat  with  them  in  the  village  language.  .  .  . 

"The  Indian  treaty  was  a  form  of  literature  which  had  no  single 
author.  Shikellamy  and  Scarouady  may  have  suggested  the  metaphors 
and  rites  to  be  used,  but  they  had  to  be  adapted  by  Weiser  as  im- 
presario, and  then  be  accepted  by  the  government  of  Pennsylvania. 
The  secretaries  who  kept  the  minutes  never  dreamed  they  were  mak- 
ing literature,  nor  need  Franklin  have  guessed  that  he  was  printing 
it  in  his  folios.  These  were  simply  the  records  of  public  events.  The 
events,  being  based  on  ritual,  had  their  own  form,  and  they  fixed  the 
form  of  the  record.  Accuracy  in  such  cases  was  art.  Now  and  then  the 
secretaries  left  out  speeches  or  parts  of  speeches  uttered  by  the  hard 
tongues  of  the  Indians,  but  there  was  not  too  much  expurgation,  and 
there  was  no  literary  self-consciousness.  Here  for  once  life  seems  to 
have  made  itself  almost  unaided  into  literature. 

"Nothing  quite  like  the  Indian  treaties  exists  anywhere  else  in  the 
literature  of  the  world.  Vercingetorix  is  only  a  character  in  Caesar's 
narrative,  presented  as  Caesar  liked.  But  Canasatego  and  Scarouady 
.  .  .  with  many  minor  chieftains  live  on  in  the  actual  words  they 
spoke  face  to  face  with  their  conquerors,  in  a  breathing-spell  before 
the  conquest.  For  a  time  savage  ritual  had  power  over  civilized  men, 
who  were  obliged  to  listen.  Years  later  white  story-tellers  were  to 
lend  romantic  color  to  the  vanished  race.  Their  invented  stories 
could  not  equal  the  treaties,  even  as  romance.  The  plain  facts,  as  the 
treaties  set  them  forth,  are  alive  with  poetry  no  less  than  truth,  with 
humor  and  drama,  and  with  the  fresh  wisdom  of  simple  experience." 


The  text  here  given  follows  the  rare  original  folio  printed  by 
Franklin  and  Hall  at  Philadelphia  in  1753,  with  no  changes  except 


NOTE  ON  A  FOREST  DRAMA  433 

that  the  modern  s  is  substituted  for  the  long  s  (f)  then  used.  Such 
spellings  as  Mohock  for  Mohawk  or  Oneido  for  Oneida  will  mislead 
nobody,  and  the  following  are  not  very  difficult:  Canawa  (Kanawha), 
Cheepaways  (Chippewa),  Mohongely ,  Mohongialo  (Monongahela), 
Outawas  (Ottawa),  Owendaets  (Wyandot),  Scarrooyady  (Scarouadyj, 
Shawonese  (Shawnee),  Weningo  (Venango). 


TREATY 


HELD    WITH    THE 


OHIO      INDIANS, 


A    T 


C  A    R    L    I 


L    E9 


In    October,    1753. 


P  H  I  LA  D  E  L  P  H  I  A: 

Printed  and  Sold  by  B.  F  R  A  N  K  L  I  N,    and    D.HALL,    at  the 
New-Prmting-OJice,  near  the  Market.     MDCCLIII. 


TREATY,     &f. 


To  the  Honourable  JAMES  HAMILTON,  Esq;  Lieutenant- 
Governor,  and  Commander  in  Chief,  of  the  Province  of 
Pennsylvania,  and  Counties  of  New-Castle,  Kent  and  Sussex, 
upon  Delaware, 

The  REPORT  of  Richard  Peters,  Isaac  Norris,  and  Benja- 
min Franklin,  Esquires,  Commissioners  appointed  to  treat 
with  some  Chiefs  of  the  Ohio  Indians,  at  Carlisle,  in  the 
County  of  Cumberland,  by  a  Commission,  bearing  Date  the 
lid  Day  of  September,  1753. 

May  it  please  the  Governor, 

NOT  knowing  but  the  Indians  might  be  waiting  at  Carlisle,  we 
made  all  the  Dispatch  possible,  as  soon  as  we  had  received  our 
Commission,  and  arrived  there  on  the  Twenty-sixth,  but  were 
agreeably  surprized  to  find  that  they  came  there  only  that  Day. 

Immediately  on  our  Arrival  we  conferred  with  Andrew  Montour, 
and  George  Croghan,  in  order  to  know  from  them  what  had  occasioned 
the  present  coming  of  the  Indians,  that  we  might,  by  their  Intelligence, 
regulate  our  first  Intercourse  with  them;  and  were  informed,  that  tho' 
their  principal  Design,  when  they  left  Ohio,  was  to  hold  a  Treaty  with 
the  Government  of  Virginia,  at  Winchester,  where  they  had  accordingly 
been;  yet  they  intended  a  Visit  to  this  Province,  to  which  they  had  been 
frequently  encouraged  by  Andrew  Montour,  who  told  them,  he  had  the 
Governor's  repeated  Orders  to  invite  them  to  come  and  see  him,  and 
assured  them  of  an  hearty  Welcome;  and  that  they  had  moreover  some 
important  Matters  to  propose  and  transact  with  this  Government. 

436 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  437 

The  Commissioners  finding  this  to  be  the  Case,  and  that  these  Indians 
were  some  of  the  most  considerable  Persons  of  the  Six  Nations,  Data- 
wares >  Shawonese,  with  Deputies  from  the  'Twightwees,  and  Owendaets, 
met  them  in  Council,  in  which  the  Commissioners  declared  the  Contents 
of  their  Commission,  acknowledged  the  Governor's  Invitation,  and  bid 
them  heartily  welcome  among  their  Brethren  of  Pennsylvania,  to  whom 
their  Visit  was  extremely  agreeable. — Conrad  Weiser  and  Andrew  Mon- 
tour interpreting  between  the  Commissioners  and  Indians,  and  several 
Magistrates,  and  others,  of  the  principal  Inhabitants  of  the  County, 
favouring  them  with  their  Presence. 

The  Twightwees  and  Delawares  having  had  several  of  their  great 
Men  cut  off  by  the  French  and  their  Indians,  and  all  the  Chiefs  of  the 
Owendaets  being  lately  dead,  it  became  necessary  to  condole  their  Loss  5 
and  no  Business  could  be  begun,  agreeable  to  the  Indian  Customs,  till 
the  Condolances  were  passed ;  and  as  these  could  not  be  made,  with  the 
usual  Ceremonies,  for  want  of  the  Goods,  which  were  not  arrived,  and 
it  was  uncertain  when  they  would,  the  Commissioners  were  put  to  some 
Difficulties,  and  ordered  the  Interpreters  to  apply  to  Scarrooyady,  an 
Oneido  Chief,  who  had  the  Conduct  of  the  Treaty  in  Virginia,  and  was 
a  Person  of  great  Weight  in  their  Councils,  and  to  ask  his  Opinion, 
whether  the  Condolances  would  be  accepted  by  Belts  and  Strings,  and 
Lists  of  the  particular  Goods  intended  to  be  given,  with  Assurances  of 
their  Delivery  as  soon  as  they  should  come.  Scarrooyady  was  pleased 
with  the  Application  j  but  frankly  declared,  that  the  Indians  could  not 
proceed  to  Business  while  the  Blood  remained  on  their  Garments,  and 
that  the  Condolances  could  not  be  accepted  unless  the  Goods,  intended 
to  cover  the  Graves,  were  actually  spread  on  the  Ground  before  them. 
A  Messenger  was  therefore  forthwith  sent  to  meet  and  hasten  the 
Waggoners,  since  every  Thing  must  stop  till  the  Goods  came. 

It  was  then  agreed  to  confer  with  Scarrooyady,  and  some  other  of  the 
Chiefs  of  the  Shawonese  and  Delawares,  on  the  State  of  Affairs  at  Ohio, 
and  from  them  the  Commissioners  learned,  in  sundry  Conferences,  the 
following  Particulars,  viz. 

"That  when  the  Governor  of  Pennsylvania's  Express  arrived  at 
Ohio,  with  the  Account  of  the  March  of  a  large  French  Army  to  the 
Heads  of  Ohio,  with  Intent  to  take  Possession  of  that  Country,  it 
alarmed  the  Indians  so  much,  that  the  Delawares,  at  Weningo,  an 
Indian  Town,  situate  high  up  on  Ohio  River,  went,  agreeable  to  a 
Custom  established  among  the  Indians,  and  forbad,  by  a  formal  Notice, 


438  A  TREATY 

the  Commander  of  that  Armament,  then  advanced  to  the  Straits,  be- 
tween Lake  Ontario  and  Lake  Erie,  to  continue  his  March,  at  least  not 
to  presume  to  come  farther  than  Niagara.  This  had  not  however  any 
Effect,  but,  notwithstanding  this  Notice,  the  French  continued  their 
March ;  which,  being  afterwards  taken  into  Consideration  by  the 
Council,  at  Logs-Town,  they  ordered  some  of  their  principal  Indians  to 
give  the  French  a  second  Notice  to  leave  their  Country,  and  return 
Home  ;  who  meeting  them  on  a  River  running  into  Lake  Erie,  a  little 
above  Weningo,  addressed  the  Commander  in  these  Words: 

The  second  Notice  delivered  to  the  Commander  of  the  French 
Army,  then  near  Weningo. 

Father  Onontio, 
Your  Children  on  Ohio  are  alarmed  to  hear  of  your  coming  so  far 
this  Way.  We  at  first  heard  you  came  to  destroy  us;  our  Women  left 
off  planting,  and  our  Warriors  prepared  for  War.  We  have  since  heard 
you  came  to  visit  us  as  Friends,  without  Design  to  hurt  us ;  but  then  we 
wondered  you  came  with  so  strong  a  Body.  If  you  have  had  any  Cause 
of  Complaint,  you  might  have  spoke  to  Onas,  or  Corlaer  (meaning  the 
Governors  of  Pennsylvania,  and  New-York)  and  not  come  to  disturb 
us  here.  We  have  a  Fire  at  Logs-Town,  where  are  the  Delawares,  and 
Shawonese,  and  Brother  Onas;  you  might  have  sent  Deputies  there, 
and  said  openly  what  you  came  about,  if  you  had  thought  amiss  of  the 
English  being  there;  and  we  invite  you  to  do  it  now;  before  you  pro- 
ceed any  further. 

The  French  Officer's  Answer. 

Children, 
I  find  you  come  to  give  me  an  Invitation  to  your  Council  Fire,  with 
a  Design,  as  I  suppose,  to  call  me  to  Account  for  coming  here.  I  must 
let  you  know  that  my  Heart  is  good  to  you;  I  mean  no  Hurt  to  you; 
I  am  come  by  the  great  King's  Command,  to  do  you,  my  Children, 
Good.  You  seem  to  think  I  carry  my  Hatchet  under  my  Coat;  I  always 
carry  it  openly,  not  to  strike  you,  but  those  that  shall  oppose  me.  I 
cannot  come  to  your  Council  Fire,  nor  can  I  return,  or  stay  here;  I  am 
so  heavy  a  Body  that  the  Stream  will  carry  me  down,  and  down  I  shall 
go,  unless  you  pull  off  my  Arm:  But  this  I  will  tell  you,  I  am  com- 
manded to  build  four  strong  Houses,  viz.  at  Weningo,  Mohongialo 
Forks,  Logs-Town,  and  Beaver  Creek,  and  this  I  will  do.  As  to  what 
concerns  Onas,  and  Assaragoa  (meaning  the  Governors  of  Pennsylvania 
and  Virginia)  I  have  spoke  to  them,  and  let  them  know  they  must  go 
off  the  Land,  and  I  shall  speak  to  them  again;  if  they  will  not  hear  me, 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  439 

it  is  their  Fault,  I  will  take  them  by  the  Arm,  and  throw  them  over  the 
Hills.  All  the  Land  and  Waters  on  this  Side  Allegheny  Hills  are  mine, 
on  the  other  Side  theirs ;  this  is  agreed  on  between  the  two  Crowns  over 
the  great  Waters.  I  do  not  like  your  selling  your  Lands  to  the  English; 
they  shall  draw  you  into  no  more  foolish  Bargains.  I  will  take  Care  of 
your  Lands  for  you,  and  of  you.  The  English  give  you  no  Goods  but 
for  Land,  we  give  you  our  Goods  for  nothing." 

We  were  further  told  by  Scarrooyady,  that  when  the  Answer  to  this 
Message  was  brought  to  Logs-Town,  another  Council  was  held,  con- 
sisting of  the  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  and  Shawonese,  who  unanimously 
agreed  to  divide  themselves  into  two  Parties,  one  to  go  to  Virginia,  and 
Pennsylvania,  with  Scarrooyady,  and  the  other  to  go  with  the  Half  King 
to  the  French  Commander,  who  had  it  in  Charge  to  make  the  following 
Declaration,  as  their  third  and  last  Notice. 

The  third  Notice,  delivered  by  the  Half  King  to  the  Commander 
of  the  French  Forces. 

Father, 
You  say  you  cannot  come  to  our  Council  Fire  at  hogs-Town,  we  there- 
fore now  come  to  you,  to  know  what  is  in  your  Heart.  You  remember 
when  you  were  tired  with  the  War  (meaning  Queen  Anne's  War)  you 
of  your  own  Accord  sent  for  us,  desiring  to  make  Peace  with  us;  when 
we  came,  you  said  to  us,  Children,  we  make  a  Council  Fire  for  you;  we 
want  to  talk  with  you,  but  we  must  first  eat  all  with  one  Spoon  out  of 
this  Silver  Bowl,  and  all  drink  out  of  this  Silver  Cup;  let  us  exchange 
Hatchets;  let  us  bury  our  Hatchets  in  this  bottomless  Hole;  and  now 
we  will  make  a  plain  Road  to  all  your  Countries,  so  clear,  that  Onontio 
may  sit  here  and  see  you  all  eat  and  drink  out  of  the  Bowl  and  Cup, 
which  he  has  provided  for  you.  Upon  this  Application  of  yours  we  con- 
sented to  make  Peace ;  and  when  the  Peace  was  concluded  on  both  Sides, 
you  made  a  solemn  Declaration,  saying,  Whoever  shall  hereafter  trans- 
gress this  Peace,  let  the  Transgressor  be  chastised  with  a  Rod,  even  tho' 
it  be  I,  your  Father. 

Now,  Father,  notwithstanding  this  solemn  Declaration  of  yours,  you 
have  whipped  several  of  your  Children;  you  know  best  why.  Of  late  you 
have  chastised  the  Twightwees  very  severely,  without  telling  us  the 
Reason;  and  now  you  are  come  with  a  strong  Band  on  our  Land,  and 
have,  contrary  to  your  Engagement,  taken  up  the  Hatchet  without  any 
previous  Parley.  These  Things  are  a  Breach  of  the  Peace;  they  are 
contrary  to  your  own  Declarations:  Therefore,  now  I  come  to  forbid 


440  A  TREATY 

you.  I  will  strike  over  all  this  Land  with  my  Rod,  let  it  hurt  who  it  will. 
I  tell  you,  in  plain  Words,  you  must  go  off  this  Land.  You  say  you 
have  a  strong  Body,  a  strong  Neck,  and  a  strong  Voice,  that  when  you 
speak  all  the  Indians  must  hear  you.  It  is  true,  you  are  a  strong  Body, 
and  ours  is  but  weak,  yet  we  are  not  afraid  of  you.  We  forbid  you  to 
come  any  further  j  turn  back  to  the  Place  from  whence  you  came. 

Scarrooyady,  who  was  the  Speaker  in  these  Conferences,  when  he 
had  finished  this  Relation,  gave  his  Reason  for  setting  forth  these  three 
Messages  to  the  French  in  so  distinct  a  Manner  j  because,  said  he,  the 
Great  Being  who  lives  above,  has  ordered  us  to  send  three  Messages  of 
Peace  before  we  make  War: — And  as  the  Half  King  has,  before  this 
Time,  delivered  the  third  and  last  Message,  we  have  nothing  now  to  do 
but  to  strike  the  French. 

The  Commissioners  were  likewise  informed,  by  Mr.  Croghan,  that 
the  Ohio  Indians  had  received  from  the  Virginia  Government  a  large 
Number  of  Arms  in  the  Spring,  and  that  at  their  pressing  Instances  a 
suitable  Quantity  of  Ammunition  was  ordered  in  the  Treaty  at  Win- 
chester to  be  lodged  for  them,  in  a  Place  of  Security,  on  this  Side  the 
Ohio,  which  was  committed  to  the  Care  of  three  Persons,  viz. 
Guest,  William  Trent,  and  Andrew  Montour ,  who  were  impowered  to 
distribute  them  to  the  Indians  as  their  Occasions  and  Behaviour  should 
require.  That  all  the  Tribes  settled  at  or  near  Allegheny  would  take 
their  Measures  from  the  Encouragement  which  these  Indians  should 
find  in  the  Province  of  Virginia-,  and  that  the  kind  Intentions  of  this 
Government  in  the  Appropriation  of  a  large  Sum  of  Money  for  the 
Use  of  these  Indians,  in  case  they  should  be  distressed  by  their  Ene- 
mies, and  their  Hunting  and  Planting  prevented,  were  well  known 
to  them  by  the  repeated  Informations  of  Andrew  Montour  and  the 
Traders. 

CONRAD  WEISER,  to  whom  it  was  earnestly  recommended  by 
the  Commissioners,  to  procure  all  the  Information  possible  from  the 
Indians  of  his  Acquaintance,  touching  their  Condition  and  Disposition, 
and  the  real  Designs  of  the  French,  did  likewise  acquaint  us,  that  all 
Persons  at  Ohio  would  have  their  Eyes  on  the  Reception  of  those 
Indians,  now  at  Carlisle,  and  judge  of  the  Affection  of  this  Province  by 
their  Treatment  of  them;  and  that  as  the  intended  Present  was  no 
Secret  to  those  Indians,  it  was  his  Opinion,  that  the  Whole  should,  at 
this  Time,  be  distributed;  for  if  any  Thing  can,  such  a  generous  Dona- 
tion must  needs  attach  the  Indians  entirely  to  the  English. 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  441 

These  several  Matters  being  taken  into  Consideration,  by  the  Com- 
missioners, and  the  Governor  having  given  them  express  Directions  to 
accommodate  themselves  to  the  Circumstances  of  the  Indians y  as  they 
should  appear  in  examining  them  at  the  Place  of  Treaty,  we  were 
unanimously  of  Opinion,  that  an  Addition  should  be  made  to  the  Goods 
bought  at  Philadelphia,  in  which  a  Regard  should  be  had  to  such 
Articles  as  were  omitted  or  supplied  in  less  Quantities  than  was  suitable 
to  the  present  Wants  of  the  Indians.  On  this  resolution  the  Lists  of 
Goods  were  examined,  and  an  additional  Quantity  bought  of  John 
Carson,  at  the  Philadelphia  Price,  and  usual  Rate  of  Carriage. 

During  these  Consultations,  it  was  rumoured  that  the  Half  King  was 
returned  to  Logs-Town,  and  had  received  an  unsatisfactory  Answer, 
which  was  confirmed,  but  not  in  such  Manner  as  could  be  positively  re- 
lied on,  by  a  Brother  of  Andrew  Montour,  and  another  Person  who 
came  directly  from  Allegheny.  This  alarmed  the  Commissioners,  and 
made  them  willing  to  postpone  Business  till  they  should  know  the  Cer- 
tainty thereof,  judging,  that  if  the  Half  King  was  returned,  he  would 
certainly  send  a  Messenger  Express  to  Carlisle,  with  an  Account  of  what 
was  done  by  him  5  and  from  this  the  Commissioners  might  take  their 
Measures  in  the  Distribution  of  the  Present. 

A  Letter,  wrote  by  Taaf,  and  Callender,  two  Indian  Traders,  dated 
the  Twenty-eighth  Day  of  September,  from  a  Place  situate  a  little  on 
this  Side  Allegheny  River,  directed  to  William  Buchanan,  was  given 
him  the  Morning  of  the  first  Day  of  October,  and  he  immediately  laid 
it  before  the  Commissioners  for  their  Perusal.  In  this  Letter  an  Account 
is  given,  that  the  Half  King  was  returned,  and  had  been  received  in  a 
very  contemptuous  Manner  by  the  French  Commander,  who  was  then 
preparing  with  his  Forces  to  come  down  the  River ,  and  that  the  Half 
King,  on  his  Return,  shed  Tears,  and  had  actually  warned  the  English 
Traders  not  to  pass  the  Ohio,  nor  to  venture  either  their  Persons  or 
their  Goods,  for  the  French  would  certainly  hurt  them.  On  this  News 
the  Conferences  with  Scarrooyady,  and  the  Chiefs  of  the  Six  Nations, 
Delawares,  and  Shawonesey  were  renewed,  and  the  Letter  read  to  them, 
at  which  they  appeared  greatly  alarmed;  but,  after  a  short  Pause,  Scar- 
rooyady, addressing  himself  to  the  Delawares  and  Shawonese,  spoke  in 
these  Words: 

Brethren  and  Cousins, 
I  look  on  this  Letter  as  if  it  had  been  a  Message  from  the  Half  King 
himself:  We  may  expect  no  other  Account  of  the  Result  of  his  Journey. 


442  A  TREATY 

However,  I  advise  you  to  be  still,  and  neither  say  nor  do  any  Thing  till 
we  get  Home,  and  I  see  my  Friend  and  Brother  the  Half  King,  and 
then  we  shall  know  what  is  to  be  done. 

The  Forms  of  the  Condolances,  which  depend  entirely  on  Indian 
Customs,  were  settled  in  Conferences  with  Scarrooyady,  and  Cayan- 
guileguoa,  a  sensible  Indian,  of  the  Mohock  Nation,  and  a  Person  inti- 
mate with  and  much  consulted  by  Scarrooyady,  in  which  it  was  agreed 
to  take  the  Six  Nations  along  with  us  in  these  Condolances;  and  accord- 
ingly the  proper  Belts  and  Strings  were  made  ready,  and  Scarrooyady 
prepared  himself  to  express  the  Sentiments  of  both  in  the  Indian  Man- 
ner. And  as  the  Goods  arrived  this  Morning  before  Break  of  Day,  the 
several  Sorts  used  on  these  Occasions  were  laid  out;  and  the  Indians 
were  told  that  the  Commissioners  would  speak  to  them  at  Eleven  a 
Clock. 

At  a  Meeting  of  the  Commissioners ,  and  Indians,  at  Carlisle,  the  first 

Day  of  October,  1753. 

PRESENT, 

Richard  Peters, 

Isaac  Norris,  >  Esquires,  Commissioners. 

Benjamin  Franklin,  J 

The  Deputies  of  the  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees, 

and  Owendaets. 

Conrad  Weiser,      "jlnter-  James  Wright,     "1  Esquires,  Mem- 

Andrew  Montour, J     preters.      John  Armstrong,/ bers  of  Assembly. 

The  Magistrates,  and  several  other  Gentlemen  and  Freeholders  of  the 

County  of  Cumberland. 

'The  Speech  of  the  Commissioners. 

Brethren,  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and 
Owendaets, 

THOUGH  the  City  of  Philadelphia  be  the  Place  where  all  Indians 
should  go,  who  have  Business  to  transact  with  this  Government,  yet 
at  your  Request,  signified  to  Colonel  Fairfax,  at  Winchester,  and  by  him 
communicated  to  our  Governor,  by  an  Express  to  Philadelphia,  he  has 
been  pleased  on  this  particular  Occasion  to  dispense  with  your  coming 
there,  and  has  done  us  the  Honour  to  depute  us  to  receive  and  treat  with 
you  at  this  Town,  in  his  Place  and  Stead  j  this  is  set  forth  in  his  Commis- 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  443 

sion,  which  we  now  produce  to  you,  under  the  Great  Seal  of  this  Prov- 
ince, the  authentick  Sign  and  Testimony  of  all  Acts  of  Government. 

Brethren, 
By  this  String  we  acquaint  you,  that  the  Six  Nations  do,  at  our  Re- 
quest, join  with  us  in  condoling  the  Losses  you  have  of  late  sustained  by 
the  Deaths  of  several  of  your  Chiefs  and  principal  Men;  and  that 
Scarrooyady  is  to  deliver  for  both  what  has  been  agreed  to  be  said  on  this 
melancholy  Occasion. 

Here  the  Commissioners  gave  a  String  of  W  amfum. 

Then  Scarrooyady  spoke  as  follows: 

Brethren,  the  Twightwees  and  Shawonese, 
It  has  pleased  Him  who  is  above,  that  we  shall  meet  here  To-day, 
and  see  one  another;  I  and  my  Brother  Onas  join  together  to  speak  to 
you.  As  we  know  that  your  Seats  at  Home  are  bloody,  we  wipe  away  the 
Blood,  and  set  your  Seats  in  Order  at  your  Council  Fire,  that  you  may 
sit  and  consult  again  in  Peace  and  Comfort  as  formerly;  that  you  may 
hold  the  antient  Union,  and  strengthen  it,  and  continue  your  old  friendly 
Correspondence. 

Here  a  String  was  given. 

Brethren,  Twightwees,  and  Shawonese, 
We  suppose  that  the  Blood  is  now  washed  off.  We  jointly,  with  our 
Brother  Onas,  dig  a  Grave  for  your  Warriors,  killed  in  your  Country; 
and  we  bury  their  Bones  decently ;  wrapping  them  up  in  these  Blankets ; 
and  with  these  we  cover  their  Graves. 

Here  the  Goods  were  given  to  the  Twightwees,  and  Shawonese. 

Brethren,  Twightwees,  and  Shawonese, 
I,  and  my  Brother  Onas,  jointly  condole  with  the  Chiefs  of  your 
Towns,  your  Women  and  Children,  for  the  Loss  you  have  sustained. 
We  partake  of  your  Grief,  and  mix  our  Tears  with  yours.  We  wipe  your 
Tears  from  your  Eyes,  that  you  may  see  the  Sun,  and  that  every  Thing 
may  become  clear  and  pleasant  to  your  Sight;  and  we  desire  you  would 
mourn  no  more. 

Here  a  Belt  was  given. 

The  same  was  said  to  the  Delawares,  mutatis  mutandis. 

And  then  he  spoke  to  the  Owendaets,  in  these  Words: 

Our  Children,  and  Brethren,  the  Owendaets, 
You  have  heard  what  I  and  my  Brother  Onas  have  jointly  said  to  the 


444  A  TREATY 

Twightwees,  Shawonese,  and  Delawares:  We  now  come  to  speak  to  you. 
We  are  informed  that  your  good  old  wise  Men  are  all  dead,  and  you 
have  no  more  left. 

We  must  let  you  know,  that  there  was  a  Friendship  established  by 
our  and  your  Grandfathers  \  and  a  mutual  Council  Fire  was  kindled.  In 
this  Friendship  all  those  then  under  the  Ground,  who  had  not  yet  ob- 
tained Eyes  or  Faces  (that  is,  those  unborn)  were  included \  and  it  was 
then  mutually  promised  to  tell  the  same  to  their  Children,  and  Chil- 
drens  Children :  But  so  many  great  Men  of  your  Nation  have  died  in  so 
short  a  Time,  that  none  but  Youths  are  left;  and  this  makes  us  afraid, 
lest  that  Treaty,  so  solemnly  established  by  your  Ancestors,  should  be 
forgotten  by  you:  We  therefore  now  come  to  remind  you  of  it,  and 
renew  it  ;  we  re-kindle  the  old  Fire,  and  put  on  fresh  Fuel. 

Here  a  String  was  given. 

The  other  Speeches,  of  burying  the  Dead,  &c.  were  the  same  as  those 

to  the  Twightwees,  &c 

After  each  had  been  spoken  to,  Scarrooyady  proceeded  thus: 

Brethren,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and  Owendaets, 
We,  the  English,  and  Six  Nations,  do  now  exhort  every  one  of  you 
to  do  your  utmost  to  preserve  this  Union  and  Friendship,  which  has  so 
long  and  happily  continued  among  us:  Let  us  keep  the  Chain  from  rust- 
ing, and  prevent  every  Thing  that  may  hurt  or  break  it,  from  what 
Quarter  soever  it  may  come. 

Then  the  Goods  allotted  for  each  Nation,  as  a  Present  of  Condolance, 
were  taken  away  by  each,  and  the  Council  adjourn'd  to  the  next  Day. 

At  a  Meeting  of  the  Commissioners,  and  Indians,  at  Carlisle,  the  id  of 

October,  1753. 

PRESENT, 

The  Commissioners,  The  same  Indians  as  Yesterday, 

The  Magistrates,  and  several  Gentlemen  of  the  County. 

The  Speech  of  the  Commissioners. 

Brethren,  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and 

Owendaets, 

"VJOW  that  your  Hearts  are  eased  of  their  Grief,  and  we  behold  one 

■*■  ^    another  with  chearful  Countenances,  we  let  you  know  that  the 

Governor,  and  good  People  of  Pennsylvania,  did  not  send  us  to  receive 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  445 

you  empty-handed  j  but  put  something  into  our  Pockets,  to  be  given  to 
such  as  should  favour  us  with  this  friendly  Visit:  These  Goods  we  there- 
fore request  you  would  accept  of,  and  divide  amongst  all  that  are  of 
your  Company,  in  such  Proportions  as  shall  be  agreeable  to  you.  You 
know  how  to  do  this  better  than  we.  What  we  principally  desire,  is,  that 
you  will  consider  this  Present  as  a  Token  of  our  cordial  Esteem  for  you; 
and  use  it  with  a  Frugality  becoming  your  Circumstances,  which  call  at 
this  Time  for  more  than  ordinary  Care. 

Brethren, 

With  Pleasure  we  behold  here  the  Deputies  of  five  different  Nations, 
viz.  the  United  Six  Nations y  the  Delawares,  the  Shawonese,  the  7 'wight- 
wees,  and  the  Owendaets.  Be  pleased  to  cast  your  Eyes  towards  this  Belt, 
whereon  six  Figures  are  delineated,  holding  one  another  by  the  Hands. 
This  is  a  just  Resemblance  of  our  present  Union:  The  fivt  first  Figures 
representing  the  five  Nations,  to  which  you  belong,  as  the  sixth  does  the 
Government  of  Pennsylvania;  with  whom  you  are  linked  in  a  close  and 
firm  Union.  In  whatever  Part  the  Belt  is  broke,  all  the  Wampum  runs 
off,  and  renders  the  Whole  of  no  Strength  or  Consistency.  In  like  Man- 
ner, should  you  break  Faith  with  one  another,  or  with  this  Government, 
the  Union  is  dissolved.  We  would  therefore  hereby  place  before  you  the 
Necessity  of  preserving  your  Faith  entire  to  one  another,  as  well  as  to 
this  Government.  Do  not  separate:  Do  not  part  on  any  Score.  Let  no 
Differences  nor  Jealousies  subsist  a  Moment  between  Nation  and  Na- 
tion 5  but  join  all  together  as  one  Man,  sincerely  and  heartily.  We  on  our 
Part  shall  always  perform  our  Engagements  to  every  one  of  you.  In 
Testimony  whereof,  we  present  you  with  this  Belt. 

Here  the  Belt  was  given. 
Brethren, 

We  have  only  this  one  Thing  further  to  say  at  this  Time:  Whatever 
Answers  you  may  have  to  give,  or  Business  to  transact  with  us,  we  desire 
you  would  use  Dispatch  j  as  it  may  be  dangerous  to  you,  and  incom- 
modious to  us,  to  be  kept  long  from  our  Homes,  at  this  Season  of  the 
Year. 


At  a  Meeting  of  the  Commissioners,  and  Indians,  the  ^d  of 

October,  1753. 

PRESENT, 

The  Commissioners,  The  same  Indians  as  before. 

Several  Gentlemen  of  the  County. 


w 


446  A  TREATY 

Scarrooyady,  Speaker. 

Brother  Onas, 
HAT  we  have  now  to  say,  I  am  going  to  speak,  in  Behalf  of  the 

Twightwees,  Shawonese,  Delawares,  and  Owendaets. 

You  have,  like  a  true  and  affectionate  Brother,  comforted  us  in  our 
Affliction.  You  have  wiped  away  the  Blood  from  our  Seats,  and  set  them 
again  in  order.  You  have  wrapped  up  the  Bones  of  our  Warriors,  and 
covered  the  Graves  of  our  wise  Men;  and  wiped  the  Tears  from  our 
Eyes,  and  the  Eyes  of  our  Women  and  Children:  So  that  we  now  see 
the  Sun,  and  all  Things  are  become  pleasant  to  our  Sight.  We  shall  not 
fail  to  acquaint  our  several  Nations  with  your  Kindness.  We  shall  take 
Care  that  it  be  always  remembered  by  us ;  and  believe  it  will  be  attended 
with  suitable  Returns  of  Love  and  Affection. 

Then  one  of  the  Twightwees  stood  ufy  and  sfoke  as  follows: 
(Scarrooyady  Interpreter.) 

Brother  Onas, 
The  OutawaSy  Cheefaways,  and  the  Frenchy  have  struck  us. — The 
Stroke  was  heavy,  and  hard  to  be  borne,  for  thereby  we  lost  our  King, 
and  several  of  our  Warriors;  but  the  Loss  our  Brethren,  the  English, 
suffered,  we  grieve  for  most.  The  Love  we  have  had  for  the  English, 
from  our  first  Knowledge  of  them,  still  continues  in  our  Breasts;  and  we 
shall  ever  retain  the  same  ardent  Affection  for  them. — We  cover  the 
Graves  of  the  English  with  this  Beaver  Blanket.  We  mourn  for  them 
more  than  for  our  own  People. 

Here  he  sfread  on  the  Floor  some  Beaver  Skins,  sewed  together 
in  the  Form  of  a  Large  Blanket. 

Then  Scarrooyady  sfoke  as  follows: 

Brother  Onas, 
I  speak  now  on  Behalf  of  all  the  Indians  present,  in  Answer  to  what 
you  said  when  you  gave  us  the  Goods  and  Belt.  What  you  have  said  to 
us  Yesterday  is  very  kind,  and  pleases  us  exceedingly.  The  Speech  which 
accompanied  the  Belt,  is  particularly  of  great  Moment.  We  will  take  the 
Belt  home  to  Ohio,  where  there  is  a  greater  and  wiser  Council  than  us, 
and  consider  it,  and  return  you  a  full  Answer.  We  return  you  Thanks 
for  the  Present. 

Gave  a  String. 
Brother  Onas, 
Last  Spring,  when  you  heard  of  the  March  of  the  French  Army,  you 
were  so  good  as  to  send  us  Word,  that  we  might  be  on  our  Guard:  We 
thank  you  for  this  friendly  Notice. 


HELD  WITH   THE  OHIO  INDIANS  447 

Brother  Onas, 
Your  People  not  only  trade  with  us  in  our  Towns,  but  disperse  them- 
selves over  a  large  and  wide  extended  Country,  in  which  reside  many 
Nations:  At  one  End  live  the  Twlghtwees,  and  at  the  other  End  the 
Caghnawagas,  and  Adlrondacks ;  these  you  must  comprehend  in  your 
Chain  of  Friendship,  they  are,  and  will  be,  your  Brethren,  let  Onontlo 
say  what  he  will. 

Gave  a  String. 

Brother  Onas, 
I  desire  you  would  hear  and  take  Notice  of  what  I  am  about  to  say 
now.  The  Governor  of  Virginia  desired  Leave  to  build  a  strong  House 
on  Ohio,  which  came  to  the  Ears  of  the  Governor  of  Canada;  and  we 
suppose  this  caused  him  to  invade  our  Country.  We  do  not  know  his  In- 
tent ;  because  he  speaks  with  two  Tongues.  So  soon  as  we  know  his 
Heart,  we  shall  be  able  to  know  what  to  do  ;  and  shall  speak  accordingly 
to  him.  We  desire  that  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia  would  at  present  for- 
bear settling  on  our  Lands,  over  the  Allegheny  Hills.  We  advise  you 
rather  to  call  your  People  back  on  this  Side  the  Hills,  lest  Damage 
should  be  done,  and  you  think  ill  of  us.  But  to  keep  up  our  Correspond- 
ence with  our  Brother  Onas,  we  will  appoint  some  Place  on  the  Hills,  or 
near  them;  and  we  do  appoint  George  Croghan,  on  our  Part,  and  de- 
sire you  to  appoint  another  on  your  Part,  by  a  formal  Writing,  under  the 
Governor's  Hand.  Let  none  of  your  People  settle  beyond  where  they 
are  now;  nor  on  the  Juniata  Lands,  till  the  Affair  is  settled  between  us 
and  the  French.  At  present,  George  Croghanh  House,  at  Juniata,  may 
be  the  Place  where  any  Thing  may  be  sent  to  us.  We  desire  a  Commis- 
sion may  be  given  to  the  Person  intrusted  by  the  Government  of  Penn- 
sylvania; and  that  he  may  be  directed  to  warn  People  from  settling  the 
Indian  Lands,  and  impowered  to  remove  them. 

Gave  a  Belt  and  String. 

Brother  Onas, 
All  we  who  are  here  desire  you  will  hear  what  we  are  going  to  say, 
and  regard  it  as  a  Matter  of  Moment:  The  French  look  on  the  great 
Number  of  your  Traders  at  Ohio  with  Envy;  they  fear  they  shall  lose 
their  Trade.  You  have  more  Traders  than  are  necessary;  and  they  spread 
themselves  over  our  wide  Country,  at  such  great  Distances,  that  we  can- 
not see  them,  or  protect  them.  We  desire  you  will  call  back  the  great 
Number  of  your  Traders,  and  let  only  three  Setts  of  Traders  remain; 
and  order  these  to  stay  in  three  Places,  which  we  have  appointed  for 
their  Residence,  viz.  Logs-Town,  the  Mouth  of  Canawa,  and  the  Mouth 
of  Mohongely ;  the  Indians  will  then  come  to  them,  and  buy  their  Goods 
in  these  Places,  and  no  where  else.  We  shall  likewise  look  on  them  under 


448  A  TREATY 

our  Care,  and  shall  be  accountable  for  them.  We  have  settled  this  Point 
with  Virginia  in  the  same  Manner. 

Gave  a  String, 
Brother  Onas, 
The  English  Goods  are  sold  at  too  dear  a  Rate  to  us.  If  only  honest 
and  sober  Men  were  to  deal  with  us,  we  think  they  might  afford  the 
Goods  cheaper:  We  desire  therefore,  that  you  will  take  effectual  Care 
hereafter,  that  none  but  such  be  suffered  to  come  out  to  trade  with  us. 

Gave  a  String, 
Brother  Onas, 
Your  Traders  now  bring  scarce  any  Thing  but  Rum  and  Flour:  They 
bring  little  Powder  and  Lead,  or  other  valuable  Goods.  The  Rum  ruins 
us.  We  beg  you  would  prevent  its  coming  in  such  Quantities,  by  regu- 
lating the  Traders.  We  never  understood  the  Trade  was  to  be  for  Whis- 
key and  Flour.  We  desire  it  may  be  forbidden,  and  none  sold  in  the 
Indian  Country;  but  that  if  the  Indians  will  have  any,  they  may  go 
among  the  Inhabitants,  and  deal  with  them  for  it.  When  these  Whiskey 
Traders  come,  they  bring  thirty  or  forty  Cags,  and  put  them  down  be- 
fore us,  and  make  us  drink;  and  get  all  the  Skins  that  should  go  to  pay 
the  Debts  we  have  contracted  for  Goods  bought  of  the  Fair  Traders; 
and  by  this  Means,  we  not  only  ruin  ourselves,  but  them  too.  These 
wicked  Whiskey  Sellers,  when  they  have  once  got  the  Indians  in  Liquor, 
make  them  sell  their  very  Clothes  from  their  Backs. — In  short,  if  this 
Practice  be  continued,  we  must  be  inevitably  ruined:  We  most  earnestly 
therefore  beseech  you  to  remedy  it. 

A  treble  String. 
Brother  Onas, 
I  have  now  done  with  generals;  but  have  something  to  say  for  par- 
ticular Nations. 

The  Shawonese  heard  some  News  since  they  came  here,  which  trou- 
bled their  Minds;  on  which  they  addressed  themselves  to  their  Grand- 
fathers, the  Delawares;  and  said,  Grandfathers,  we  will  live  and  die 
with  you,  and  the  Six  Nations:  We,  our  Wives  and  Children;  and  Chil- 
dren yet  unborn. 

N.  B.  This  was  occasioned  by  Conrad  WeiserV  having  told  them 
in  private  Conversation,  that  while  he  was  in  the  Mohock 
Country,  he  was  informed,  that  the  French  intended  to  drive 
away  the  Shawonese  {as  well  as  the  English)  from  Ohio. 

Scarrooyady  then  proceeded,  and  said,  I  have  something  farther  to 
say  on  Behalf  of  the  Shawonese, 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  449 

Brother  Onas, 
At  the  Beginning  of  the  Summer,  when  the  News  was  brought  to  us, 
of  the  Approach  of  the  French,  the  Shawonese  made  this  Speech  to  their 
Uncles,  the  Delawares,  saying,  "Uncles,  you  have  often  told  us,  that  we 
were  a  sensible  and  discreet  People ;  but  we  lost  all  our  Sense  and  Wits, 
when  we  slipp'd  out  of  your  Arms;  however,  we  are  now  in  one  an- 
other's Arms  again,  and  hope  we  shall  slip  out  no  more.  We  remember, 
and  are  returned  to  our  former  Friendship,  and  hope  it  will  always  con- 
tinue. In  Testimony,  whereof,  we  give  you,  our  Uncles,  a  String  of  ten 
Rows." 

The  Shawonese  likewise,  at  the  same  time,  sent  a  Speech  to  the  Six 
Nations,  saying,  "Our  Brethren,  the  English,  have  treated  us  as  People 
that  had  Wit:  The  French  deceived  us:  But  we  now  turn  our  Heads 
about,  and  are  looking  perpetually  to  the  Country  of  the  Six  Nations, 
and  our  Brethren,  the  English,  and  desire  you  to  make  an  Apology  for 
us  j  and  they  gave  eight  Strings  of  Wampum."  The  Delawares  and  Six 
Nations  do  therefore  give  up  these  Strings  to  Onas,  and  recommend  the 
Shawonese  to  him  as  a  People  who  have  seen  their  Error,  and  are  their 
and  our  very  good  Friends. 

Gave  eight  Strings. 
Brother  Onas, 

Before  I  finish,  I  must  tell  you,  we  all  earnestly  request  you  will 
please  to  lay  all  our  present  Transactions  before  the  Council  of  Onon- 
dago,  that  they  may  know  we  do  nothing  in  the  Dark.  They  may  per- 
haps think  of  us,  as  if  we  did  not  know  what  we  were  doing;  or  wanted 
to  conceal  from  them  what  we  do  with  our  Brethren ;  but  it  is  otherwise; 
and  therefore  make  them  acquainted  with  all  our  Proceedings:  This  is 
what  we  have  likewise  desired  of  the  Virginians  when  we  treated  with 
them  at  Winchester. 

Brother  Onas, 
I  forgot  something  which  I  must  now  say  to  you  ;  it  is  to  desire  you 
would  assist  us  with  some  Horses  to  carry  our  Goods;  because  you  have 
given  us  more  than  we  can  carry  ourselves.  Our  Women  and  young 
People  present  you  with  this  Bundle  of  Skins,  desiring  some  Spirits  to 
make  them  chearful  in  their  own  Country;  not  to  drink  here. 

Presented  a  Bundle  of  Skins. 
Then  he  added: 

The  Twightwees  intended  to  say  something  to  you;  but  they  have 
mislaid  some  Strings,  which  has  put  their  Speeches  into  Disorder;  these 
they  will  rectify,  and  speak  to  you  in  the  Afternoon. 

Then  the  Indians  withdrew, 


45©  A  TREATY 

At  a  Meeting  of  the  Commissioners  and  Indians  the  ^d  of 

October,  1753.  P.  M. 

PRESENT, 

The  Commissioners,  The  same  Indians  as  before. 

The  Magistrates,  and  several  Gentlemen  of  the  County. 

'The  Twightwees  sfeak  by  Andrew  Montour. 

Brother  Onas, 

EARKEN  what  I  have  to  say  to  the  Six  Nations,  Delawares, 
Shawonese,  and  English. 


H 


The  French  have  struck  usj  but  tho'  we  have  been  hurt,  it  is  but  on 
one  Side  j  the  other  Side  is  safe.  Our  Arm  on  that  Side  is  entire  \  and 
with  it  we  laid  hold  on  our  Pipe,  and  have  brought  it  along  with  us,  to 
shew  you  it  is  as  good  as  ever:  And  we  shall  leave  it  with  you,  that  it 
may  be  always  ready  for  us  and  our  Brethren  to  smoak  in  when  we  meet 
together. 

Here  he  delivered  over  the  Calumet ',  decorated  with  fine  Feathers. 

Brother  Onas, 
We  have  a  single  Heart.  We  have  but  one  Heart.  Our  Heart  is  green, 
and  good,  and  sound ;  This  Shell,  painted  green  on  its  hollow  Side,  is  a 
Resemblance  of  it. 

The  Country  beyond  us,  towards  the  Setting  of  the  Sun,  where  the 

French  live,  is  all  in  Darkness 3  we  can  see  no  Light  there:  But  towards 

Sun-rising,  where  the  English  live,  we  see  Light ;  and  that  is  the  Way 

we  turn  our  Faces.  Consider  us  as  your  fast  Friends,  and  good  Brethren. 

Here  he  delivered  a  large  Shell,  painted  green  on  the 

Concave-side,  with  a  String  of  Wamfum  tied  to  it. 

Brother  Onas, 
This  Belt  of  Wampum  was  formerly  given  to  the  King  of  the 
Piankashas,  one  of  our  Tribes,  by  the  Six  Nations;  that  if  at  any  Time 
any  of  our  People  should  be  killed,  or  any  Attack  made  on  them  by  their 
Enemies,  this  Belt  should  be  sent  with  the  News,  and  the  Six  Nations 
would  believe  it. 

The  Twightwees,  when  they  brought  this  Belt  to  the  Lower  Shawo- 
nese  Town,  addressed  themselves  to  the  Shawonese,  Six  Nations,  Dela- 
wares, and  then  to  the  English,  and  said  j 


HELD  WITH   THE  OHIO   INDIANS  451 

Brethren, 
We  are  an  unhappy  People:  We  have  had  some  of  our  Brethren,  the 
English,  killed  and  taken  Prisoners  in  our  Towns.  Perhaps  our  Breth- 
ren, the  English,  may  think,  or  be  told,  that  we  were  the  Cause  of  their 
Death :  We  therefore  apply  to  you  the  Shawonese,  &c.  to  assure  the  Eng- 
lish we  were  not.  The  Attack  was  so  sudden,  that  it  was  not  in  our 
Power  to  save  them.  And  we  hope,  when  you  deliver  this  Speech  to  the 
English,  they  will  not  be  prejudiced  against  us,  but  look  on  us  as  their 
Brethren:  Our  Hearts  are  good  towards  them. 

A  large  Belt  of  fourteen  Rows. 
Brethren, 
One  of  our  Kings,  on  his  Death  bed,  delivered  to  his  Son,  the  young 
Boy  who  sits  next  to  me,  these  eight  Strings  of  Wampum,  and  told  him, 
Child,  "I  am  in  Friendship  with  the  Shawonese,  Delawares,  Six  Nations, 
and  English;  and  I  desire  you,  if  by  any  Misfortune  I  should  happen  to 
die,  or  be  killed  by  my  Enemies,  you  would  send  this  String  to  them, 
and  they  will  receive  you  in  Friendship  in  my  Stead. 

Delivers  the  Strings. 

The  following  is  a  Speech  of  the  Wife  of  the  Piankasha  King,  after 
her  Husband's  Death,  addressed  to  the  Shawonese,  Six  Nations,  Dela- 
wares, and  English:  "Remember,  Brethren,  that  my  Husband  took  a 
fast  Hold  of  the  Chain  of  Friendship  subsisting  between  your  Nations: 
Therefore  I  now  deliver  up  his  Child  into  your  Care  and  Protection, 
and  desire  you  would  take  Care  of  him;  and  remember  the  Alliance  his 
Father  was  in  with  you,  and  not  forget  his  Friendship,  but  continue  kind 
to  his  Child." 

Gave  four  Strings  black  and  white. 

Brethren,  Shawonese,  Delawares,  Six  Nations,  and  English, 
We  acquaint  all  our  Brethren,  that  we  have  prepared  this  Beaver 
Blanket  as  a  Seat  for  all  our  Brethren  to  sit  on  in  Council.  In  the  Mid- 
dle of  it  we  have  painted  a  green  Circle,  which  is  the  Colour  and  Resem- 
blance of  our  Hearts;  which  we  desire  our  Brethren  may  believe  are 
sincere  towards  our  Alliance  with  them. 

Delivered  a  Beaver  Blanket. 

Then  Scarrooyady  stood  up  and  said: 
Brother  Onas, 
The  Shawonese  and  Delawares  delivered  this  Speech  to  the  Six  Na- 
tions, and  desired  they  would  deliver  it  to  the  English;  and  now  I 
deliver  it  on  their  Behalf. 


452  A  TREATY 

Brethren, 
We  acquaint  you,  that  as  the  Wife  of  the  Piankasha  King  delivered 
his  Child  to  all  the  Nations,  to  be  taken  Care  of,  they  desire  that  those 
Nations  may  be  interceeded  with,  to  take  Care  that  the  said  Child  may 
be  placed  in  his  Father's  Seat,  when  he  comes  to  be  a  Man,  to  rule  their 
People.  And  the  Six  Nations  now,  in  Behalf  of  the  Whole,  request,  that 
this  Petition  may  not  be  forgot  by  the  English,  but  that  they  would  see 
the  Request  fulfilled. 

Gave  four  Strings. 

Then  Scarrooyady  desired  the  Six  Nations  Council  might  be  made 
acquainted  with  all  these  Speeches:  And  added,  that  they  had  no  more 
to  say;  but  what  they  have  said  is  from  their  Hearts. 

At  a  Meeting  of  the  Commissioners ,  and  Indians,  the  \th  of 

October,  1753. 

PRESENT, 

The  Commissioners,  The  same  Indians  as  before. 

The  Gentlemen  of  the  County. 

The  Commissioners y  unwilling  to  lose  any  Time,  fre fared  their  An- 
swers early  this  Morning,  and  sent  for  the  Indians;  who  having  seated 
themselves y  the  following  Sfeech  was  made  to  them: 

Brethren,  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and 
Owendaets, 

THE  several  Matters  delivered  by  you  Yesterday  have  been  well 
considered  j  and  we  are  now  going  to  return  you  our  Answers. 

The  Concern  expressed  by  the  Twightwees  for  the  Death  and  Im- 
prisonment of  the  English,  with  their  Professions  of  Love  and  Esteem, 
denotes  a  sincere  and  friendly  Disposition,  which  entitles  them  to  our 
Thanks,  and  the  Continuance  of  our  Friendship;  this  they  may  cer- 
tainly depend  on. 

Brethren, 
You  have  recommended  to  us  the  several  Nations,  who,  you  say,  live 
in  that  great  Extent  of  Country,  over  which  our  Traders  travel  to  dis- 
pose of  their  Goods,  and  especially  the  Twightwees,  Adirondacks,  and 
Caghnawagas,  who  you  say  live  at  different  Extremities,  and  have  good 
Inclinations  towards  the  English. — We  believe  you  would  not  give  them 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  453 

this  Character  unless  they  deserved  it.  Your  Recommendations  always 
will  have  a  Weight  with  us,  and  will  dispose  us  in  Favour  of  them, 
agreeable  to  your  Request. 

Brethren, 
The  several  Articles  which  contain  your  Observations  on  the  Indian 
Traders,  and  the  loose  straggling  Manner  in  which  that  Trade  is  carried 
on,  thro'  Countries  lying  at  great  Distances  from  your  Towns — Your 
Proposals  to  remedy  this,  by  having  named  three  Places  for  the  Traders 
to  reside  in,  under  your  Care  and  Protection,  with  a  Request,  that  the 
Province  would  appoint  the  particular  Persons  to  be  concerned  in  this 
Trade,  for  wrhom  they  will  be  answerable — What  you  say  about  the  vast 
Quantities  of  Rum,  and  its  ill  Effects,  and  that  no  more  may  be  brought 
amongst  you  5  all  these  have  made  a  very  strong  Impression  upon  our 
Minds -j  and  was  it  now  in  our  Power  to  rectify  these  Disorders,  and  to 
put  Matters  on  the  Footing  you  propose,  we  would  do  it  with  great 
Pleasure:  But  these  are  Affairs  which  more  immediately  concern  the 
Government  j  in  these  therefore,  we  shall  imitate  your  Example,  by  lay- 
ing them  before  the  Governor,  assuring  you,  that  our  heartiest  Repre- 
sentations of  the  Necessity  of  these  Regulations  shall  not  be  wanting, 
being  convinced,  that  unless  something  effectual  be  speedily  done  in 
these  Matters,  the  good  People  of  this  Province  can  no  longer  expect 
Safety  or  Profit  in  their  Commerce,  nor  the  Continuance  of  your 
Affection. 

Brethren, 
We  will  send  an  Account  to  Onondago  of  all  that  has  been  transacted 
between  us. 

We  will  assist  you  with  Horses  for  the  Carriage  of  the  Goods  given 
you. 

We  grant  your  Women  and  young  Men  their  Request  for  Rum,  on 
Condition  it  be  not  delivered  to  them  until  you  shall  have  passed  the 
Mountains. 

Scarrooyady  some  Days  ago  desired  us  to  give  Orders  for  the  Mend- 
ing of  your  Guns,  &c.  and  we  did  so;  being  obliged  to  send  for  a  Gun- 
smith out  of  the  Country,  as  no  One  of  that  Trade  lived  in  the  Town; 
who  promised  to  come:  But  having  broke  his  Word,  it  has  not  been  in 
our  Power  to  comply  with  this  Request. 

Here  the  String  given  with  the  Request  was  returned. 

Having  delivered  our  general  Answer,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  give 


454  A  TREATY 

one  to  what  was  said  by  particular  Nations,  as  well  by  the  Shawonese  in 
the  Forenoon,  as  by  the  Twightwees  in  the  Afternoon. 

Brethren,  Delawares,  and  Shawonese, 
We  are  glad  to  see  you  in  such  good  Dispositions  to  each  other.  We 
entreat  you  to  do  every  Thing  you  can  to  preserve  the  Continuance  of 
this  agreeable  Harmony.  The  Shawonese  may  be  assured  we  retain  no 
Manner  of  Remembrance  of  their  former  Miscarriages:  We  are  per- 
fectly reconciled,  and  our  Esteem  for  their  Nation  is  the  same  as  ever. 

Gave  a  large  String. 
Brethren,  Twightwees, 
We  shall  take  your  several  Presents,  Shells,  Strings,  Beaver  Blanket, 
and  Calumet  Pipe,  with  us,  and  deliver  them  to  the  Governor;  that 
these,  and  the  several  Things  said  at  the  Delivery  of  them,  may  remain 
in  the  Council  Chamber,  at  Philadelphia,  for  our  mutual  Use  and  Re- 
membrance, whenever  it  shall  please  the  Great  Being,  who  sits  above, 
to  bring  us  together  in  Council  again. 

Gave  a  long  String. 
Brethren, 
We  desire  you  will  send  these  two  Strouds  to  the  young  King,  as  an 
Acknowledgment  of  our  affectionate  Remembrance  of  his  Father's  Love 
to  us,  and  of  our  Good-will  to  him. 

Be  pleased  to  present  to  the  Widow  of  the  Piankasha  King,  our  late 
hearty  Friend,  these  Handkerchiefs,  to  wipe  the  Tears  from  her  Eyes; 
and  likewise  give  her  Son  these  two  Strouds  to  clothe  him. 

Here  two  Handkerchiefs  and  two  Strouds  were  given. 

Brethren,  Twightwees, 
We  assure  you  we  entertain  no  hard  Thoughts  of  you;  nor  in  any 
wise  impute  to  you  the  Misfortune  that  bef el  the  English  in  your  Town ; 
it  was  the  Chance  of  War:  We  were  struck  together;  we  fell  together; 
and  we  lament  your  Loss  equally  with  our  own. 

Brethren,  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and 

Owendaets, 

We  have  now  finished  our  Answers ;  and  we  hope  they  will  be  agree- 
able to  you:  Whatever  we  have  said,  has  been  with  a  hearty  Good- will 
towards  you;  our  Hearts  have  accompanied  our  Professions,  and  you 
will  always  find  our  Actions  agreeable  to  them.  Then  the  Commission- 
ers were  silent;  and,  after  a  Space  of  Time,  renewed  their  Speeches  to 
them. 


HELD  WITH   THE  OHIO   INDIANS  455 

Brethren,  Six  Nations,  Delawares,  Shawonese,  Twightwees,  and 
Owendaets, 
We  have  something  to  say  to  you,  to  which  we  entreat  you  will  give 
your  closest  Attention,  since  it  concerns  both  us  and  you  very  much. 

Brethren, 
We  have  held  a  Council  on  the  present  Situation  of  your  Affairs.  We 
have  Reason  to  think,  from  the  Advices  of  Taaf  and  Callender,  that  it 
would  be  too  great  a  Risque,  considering  the  present  Disorder  Things 
are  in  at  Ohio,  to  encrease  the  Quantity  of  Goods  already  given  you:  We 
therefore  acquaint  you,  that,  though  the  Governor  has  furnished  us  with 
a  larger  Present  of  Goods,  to  put  into  your  publick  Store-house,  as  a 
general  Stock,  for  your  Support  and  Service,  and  we  did  intend  to  have 
sent  them  along  with  you;  we  have,  on  this  late  disagreeable  Piece  of 
News,  altered  our  Minds,  and  determined,  that  the  Goods  shall  not  be 
delivered  till  the  Governor  be  made  acquainted  with  your  present  Cir- 
cumstances, and  shall  give  his  own  Orders  for  the  Disposal  of  them. 
And  that  they  may  lie  ready  for  your  Use,  to  be  applied  for,  whenever 
the  Delivery  may  be  safe,  seasonable,  and  likely  to  do  you  the  most 
Service  5  we  have  committed  them  to  the  Care  of  your  good  Friend 
George  Croghan,  who  is  to  transmit  to  the  Governor,  by  Express,  a  true 
and  faithful  Account  how  your  Matters  are  likely  to  turn  out;  and  on 
the  Governor's  Order,  and  not  otherwise,  to  put  you  into  the  Possession 
of  them. 

This  we  hope  you  will  think  a  prudent  Caution,  and  a  Testimony  of 
our  Care  for  your  real  Good  and  Welfare. 

Brethren, 
We  have  a  Favour  of  a  particular  Nature  to  request  from  your 
Speaker,  Scarrooyady,  in  which  we  expect  your  Concurrence,  and  joint 
Interest;  and  therefore  make  it  to  him  in  your  Presence.  Here  the  Com- 
missioners applying  to  Scarrooyady,  spoke  as  follows: 

Respected  Chief  and  Brother  Scarrooyady, 
We  have  been  informed  by  Andrew  Montour,  and  George  Croghan, 
that  you  did  at  Winchester,  in  publick  Council,  undertake  to  go  to  Caro- 
lina, to  sollicit  the  Release  of  some  Warriors  of  the  Shawonese  Nation, 
who  are  said  to  be  detained  in  the  publick  Prison  of  Charles-Town,  on 
Account  of  some  Mischief  committed  by  them,  or  their  Companions,  in 
the  inhabited  Part  of  that  Province;  and  these  two  Persons,  who  are 
your  very  good  Friends,  have  given  it  as  their  Opinion,  if,  after  you 


456  A  TREATY 

know  what  has  passed  at  Ohio,  you  shall  now  leave  this  Company  of 
Indians,  and  not  return  with  them  to  their  Families,  and  assist  in  the 
Consultations  with  the  Half  King,  and  their  other  Chiefs,  what  Meas- 
ures to  take  in  this  unhappy  Situation  of  your  Affairs,  all  may  be  irre- 
coverably lost  at  Allegheny y  and  the  Loss  with  Justice  be  laid  at  your 
Door.  You  may,  perhaps,  be  afraid  to  disoblige  the  Shawonese,  as  it  was 
at  their  Instance  you  undertook  this  Journey ;  but  we  intend  to  speak  to 
them,  and  have  no  Doubt  of  obtaining  their  Consent  ;  convinc'd  as  we 
are,  that  the  Release  of  these  Prisoners  will  be  sooner  and  more  effectu- 
ally procured  by  the  joint  Interposition  of  the  Governors  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  Virginia,  than  by  your  personal  Solicitation;  in  as  much  as 
our  Governor,  to  whom  we  shall  very  heartily  recommend  this  Affair, 
can  send,  with  greater  Dispatch,  his  Letters  to  Carolina,  than  you  can 
perform  the  Journey ;  for  at  this  Season,  Opportunities  present  every 
Day  of  sending  by  Sea  to  Charles-Town;  and  an  Express  by  Land  may 
be  dispatched  to  Governor  Dunwiddie,  as  soon  as  we  return  to  Phila- 
delphia. 

Gave  a  String. 

The  Shawonese  Chiefs  expressing  Dissatisfaction  at  this  Endeavour 
of  the  Commissioners  to  stop  Scarrooyady,  it  gave  us  some  Trouble  to 
satisfy  them,  and  obtain  their  Consent ;  but  at  last  it  was  effected;  and 
when  this  was  signified  to  Scarrooyady,  he  made  this  Answer. 

Brother  Onas, 
I  will  take  your  Advice,  and  not  go  to  Virginia  at  this  Time, — but  go 
Home,  and  do  every  Thing  in  my  Power  for  the  common  Good.  And 
since  we  are  here  now  together,  with  a  great  deal  of  Pleasure  I  must 
acquaint  you,  that  we  have  set  a  Horn  on  Andrew  Montour's  Head,  and 
that  you  may  believe  what  he  says  to  be  true,  between  the  Six  Nations 
and  you,  they  have  made  him  one  of  their  Counsellors,  and  a  great  Man 
among  them,  and  love  him  dearly. 

Scarrooyady  gave  a  large  Belt  to  Andrew  Montour, 
and  the  Commissioners  agreed  to  it. 

After  this  Difficulty  was  got  over,  nothing  else  remained  to  be  done; 
and  as  the  Absence  of  these  Indians  was  dangerous,  the  Commissioners 
put  an  End  to  the  Treaty,  and  took  their  Leave  of  them,  making  pri- 
vate Presents  at  parting,  to  such  of  the  Chiefs,  and  others,  as  were  rec- 
ommended by  the  Interpreters  to  their  particular  Notice. 

Thus,  may  it  please  the  Governor,  we  have  given  a  full  and  just  Ac- 
count of  all  our  Proceedings,  and  we  hope  our  Conduct  will  meet  with 


HELD  WITH  THE  OHIO  INDIANS  457 

his  Approbation.  But,  in  Justice  to  these  Indians,  and  the  Promises  we 
made  them,  we  cannot  close  our  Report,  without  taking  Notice,  That 
the  Quantities  of  strong  Liquors  sold  to  these  Indians  in  the  Places  of 
their  Residence,  and  during  their  Hunting  Seasons,  from  all  Parts  of 
the  Counties  over  Sasquehannahy  have  encr eased  of  late  to  an  inconceiv- 
able Degree,  so  as  to  keep  these  poor  Indians  continually  under  the 
Force  of  Liquor,  that  they  are  hereby  become  dissolute,  enfeebled  and 
indolent  when  sober,  and  untractable  and  mischievous  in  their  Liquor, 
always  quarrelling,  and  often  murdering  one  another:  That  the  Trad- 
ers are  under  no  Bonds,  nor  give  any  Security  for  their  Observance  of 
the  Laws,  and  their  good  Behaviour  j  and  by  their  own  Intemperance, 
unfair  Dealings,  and  Irregularities,  will,  it  is  to  be  feared,  entirely 
estrange  the  Affections  of  the  Indians  from  the  English;  deprive  them 
of  their  natural  Strength  and  Activity,  and  oblige  them  either  to  aban- 
don their  Country,  or  submit  to  any  Terms,  be  they  ever  so  unreason- 
able, from  the  French,  These  Truths,  may  it  please  the  Governor,  are 
of  so  interesting  a  Nature,  that  we  shall  stand  excused  in  recommending 
in  the  most  earnest  Manner,  the  deplorable  State  of  these  Indians ,  and  the 
heavy  Discouragements  under  which  our  Commerce  with  them  at  pres- 
ent labours,  to  the  Governor's  most  serious  Consideration,  that  some 
good  and  speedy  Remedies  may  be  provided,  before  it  be  too  late. 

RICHARD    PETERS, 
November  1,1753.  ISAAC    N  ORRIS, 

BEN  J.    FRANKLIN. 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

Date 

UNIVERSIT 

Due          Returned 

Due 

y  CDLLBG 

Due 

Returned 

DEC  2    'bo  Ml 

J     * 

/ 


3 


III 


The  three  readers,  mam 
808  8F145t  C  2 


3  lEbE  03177  A227 


***-*i*«»«.«**** 


