This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you; 

+  Make  non-commeicial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

-I-  Refrain  from  aiiToniated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

-I-  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


athttp:  //books. google,  com/ 


B\TYci|*. 


ISlogal  ^orfetg  o(  ifteraturr 


THE  UNITED   KINGDOM. 


SECOND    SERIES. 
\  VOL.  VII. 


jiJiN'^ 


TRANSACTIONS 


OV  TBI 


XU>eal  ^ocCrtg  of  I^iteraturt 


THE  UNITED  KINGDOM. 


SECOND    SERIES. 
VOL.  VII. 


LONDON: 

JOHN  HURRAY,  ALBEMARLE  STREET. 
TRUBNEB  AND  CO.,  PATERNOSTER  BOW. 

M.i>cccaj»ii. 


fbihtbp  bt 

J  una  EDWABI)   TATLOK,  LITTLE   QDSEH  flTBKBT, 

likcolk'b  ihh  fields. 


CONTENTS. 

I. — The  Eastern  Pediment  ai  the  Fferthenon.     By  Wil- 
liam Watkiu  Llotd.    (fPia  PlatM.)    ...        1 
II. — ObseiTationB  on  the  newly-diBCovered  Fngmenti  of  the 
Stttiatical  Tablet  of  Karnak.    By  Samusl  Bircb, 
LL.D 50 

III. — On  HaTdok  the  Dane.    By  B.  6.  Latham,  H.D., 

F.B.S 71 

IV. — Sapplemental  Notea  im  St.  George  the  Mutjt,  and 
on  Geoi^  the  Arian  ffiihop.  By  Jobn  Hogo, 
F.B.S..  Hon.  For.  Sec.  B.S.L.,  ete.  .  ^  .  .  .  106 
V. — ninstiations  of  Egyptian  History  and  Chronology, 
from  the  Cnneifimn  Inacriptiwis.  By  Mqor-Oen. 
Sir  H.  C.  BAWLmaoir,  K.C.B.,  F.B.b!,  T.P.R.S.L.     137 

VI. — On  AssyriBD  Antiquities.    By  H.  F.  Talbot,  F.R.S., 

V.P.R.S.L 169 

VII. — Preliminary  Translations  of  Assyrian  Inscriptions.    By 

H.  F.  Talbot,  F.R.S.,  V.P.R.S.L 183 

'HI. — A  Political  Poem  relating  to  the  Troubles  of  the 
Reigns  of  Edward  II.  and  III. ;  and  an  Account  of 
the  Visit  of  Charles  V.  to  England,  by  an  Eyewit- 
ness.    By  Professor  Reinhold  Fadli,  of  Tiibin- 

geu,  Hon.  Mem.  R.S.L 201 

IX. — Journal  of  a  Tour  in  Acarnauia,  with  Account  of  Rains 
of  New  Pleuron,  Gyfto  Castro,  and  Petro  Vouni. 
By  D.  £.  CoLNAODi,  Esq.,  British  Vice-Consul, 

Missobnghi.     {With  Plate».) 219 

X. — On  the  Supposed  Scriptural  Names  of  Baalbec,  or  the 
Syrian  Heliopolis ;  and  on  the  Chief  Heliopolitan 
Inscriptions,  Temples,  Deities,  and  Sun-Worship. 
By  John  Hogg,  F.R.S.,  Hon.  For.  Sec.  R.8X., 
etc 247 


IV  CONTENTS. 

PAOS 

XI.— A  Slight  MisUke  of  Lord  MacauUy.    By  the  Bev. 

Mackbnzie  E.  C.  Walcott 335 

XII. — ^TraDalfttion  of  aa  loscriptioa  of  Nebuchadnezzar.    By 

H.  F.  Talbot.  F.R.S.,  V.P.R.S.L 341 

XIII. — Od  some  luscriptioDS  from  Cyprus  copied  hj 
Commander  Leycester,  R.N.      By  John  Hogg, 

F.R.S.,  Hon.  For.  Sec.  R.S.L 376 

XIII*. — Extracts  from  Letters  addressed  to  C.  T.  Newton, 
Esq.,  by  M.  Demetrius  Pierides  and  F.  Calrert, 
Esq.  Communicated  by  W.  S.  W.  Vaux,  Hon. 
Sec.  II.S.L.     (With  a  Plate.) 391 

XIV.— On  Recent  Excavations  at  Cyrene,  by  Lieut.  R.  M. 
Smith,  R.E.    Communicated  by  W.  S.  W.  Vadx, 

Hon.  Sec.  R.S.L 899 

XV. — ObserratioDS  on  the  '  Popol  Vuh,'  or  the  Books  of 
the  National  History  of  Guatemala ;  also  Remarks 
on  the  Commentary.  By  William  Bollaekt, 
F.R.G.S 421 

XVI, —  On  the  Recent  Excavations  at  Carthage.  By  Na- 
than Davis,  Esq.,  and  M.  Beul^.  Communi* 
eated  by  W.  S.  W.  Vaux,  Hon.  Sec.  B.S.L.,  and 

Commander  Porcher,  R.N 441 

XVII. — On  the  Combat  between  Conlach  and  Cuchullin,  in 
Gaelic,  compared  with  that  between  Hildebrand 
and  Hathubrant,  in  German.    By  R.  G.  Latham, 

M.D.,  F.R.8 474 

XVIII.— M6notre  sur  I'Origine  Scytho-Cimm^rienne  de  la 
Iiangue  Romane.  Par  M.  le  Due  du  Roussil- 
LON 482 

XIX. — On  Ancient  Ruins  in  the  Neighbourhood  of  Misso- 
longhi.  By  D.  E.  Colnaghi,  Esq.,  H.M.  Con- 
sul, Bastia 542 

XX. — The  Annala  of  Esarhaddon,  translated  from  the  As- 
syrian.   By  H.  F.  Talbot,  F.R.S.,  V.P.R.S.L.    55! 


crHCnai.  aooKsiNiNHo  co. 


OU»UT»  COHTItOL    HARK 


TRANSACTIONS 

or  TBI 

ROYAL  SOCIETY  OF  LITERATURE. 


I.-THE  EASTERN  PEDIMENT  OF  THE  PARTHENON. 

BT  WOLJAM  VATEIBB  LLOTD. 
(Read  April,  I860.) 

Ituen  back,  after  many  years,  to  review  the  interpre- 
tatJQQ  I  gave  in  1847  (Classical  Museum,  part  xviii.) 
of  the  sculptured  groups  in  the  Western  Pediment  of 
the  Parthenon,  and  would  render  an  account  to  myself 
of  how  it  has  stood  the  test  of  time,  in  what  respect 
re-consideration  or  remonstrance  induce  me  to  modify 
it  in  general  tenor  or  particular  points. 

For  the  general  tenor — thechief  matter  of  interest,  I 
remain  contented.     I  set  forth,  on  the  authority  of  a 
hymo  to  Athene  by  Proclus,  and  relying  also  on  the 
analogy  of  parallel  Greek  legends,  that  the  contest  be- 
tween Athene  and  Poseidon  for  Attica  was  related  and 
popularly  known,  not  only  in  the  form  of  rivalry  in 
beneficial  creation  of  the  olive  and  the  horse,  and  of 
reference  to  Cecrops  as  arbiter,  but  furthermore  as  a 
struggle  between  the  powers  of  land  and  sea,  in  which 
Athene  made  good  her  claim  to  the  chief  worship  of  the 
Cecropidae,  by  staying  the  progress  of  angry  Poseidon 
and  his  inundating  waves.     Single,  late,  or  indirect,  as 
the  proof  might  appear,  I  argued  and  convinced  those  I 
chiefly  sought  to  convince,  that  this  form  of  the  mythus 

VOL,  VII.  B 


2  THB    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

had  a  true  archaic  root  and  alone  and  admirably  eX" 
plained  the  expression  of  the  groups,  in  this  grandest; 
of  all  the  sculptured  compositions  of  antiquity  of  which 
we  have  sufficient  remains  or  records. 

These  views  were  immediately  and  vehemently  con- 
tested by  Professor  Welcker,  in  a  paper  which  will  be 
found  in  the  '  Classical  Museum,'  and  also  in  the  Crer- 
man  collection  of  his  works ;  but  I  find  nothing  in 
his  arguments  that  affect  my  confidence  in  my  views. 
I  have  even  to  thank  him  for  an  additional  illustra- 
tion of  the  prevalence  of  the  tradition  I  relied  on,  and 
I  am  furnished  by  an  opponent  who  was  at  the  time 
an  excited  opponent,  with  the  very  arm  which  I  could 
most  have  wished  for, — a  corroborative  authority ;  the 
passage  is  from  Statius, — 

"  Ipse  qaoque  in  pugnas  vacuatur  coIUs,  obi  ingens 
Lis  Snperum,  dubiiB  donee  nova  surgeret  arbor 
Rupibas,  et  longa  refugum  mare  frangeret  ombrft." 

Thebais,  xii.  632. 

As  regards  secondary  points  I  have  one  modification 
to  admit.  I  am  now  satisfied  that  a  figure  is  lost  from 
the  composition  in  the  space  between  the  river-god 
Cephisus  and  Cecrops.  Among  the  drawings  of  Pars 
presented  to  the  British  Museum  by  the  Dilettanti  So- 
ciety, is  a  very  careful  and  detailed  sketch  of  this  angle 
of  the  pediment  and  its  sculptures.  It  shows  a  large 
fragment  of  the  raking  cornice  dropped  from  its  po- 
sition, and  fallen  between  Cecrops  and  Cephisus,  where 
it  is  lodged  angularly,  its  corner  having  broken  away 
some  portion  of  the  horizontal  cornice  immediately 
below  it.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  together  with 
the  cornice,  it  damaged  and  sent  down  a  figure  that 
had  its  place  upon  this  portion.    The  drawing  shows  a 


OP    TBS    PARTHENON.  3 

ncancy  between  the  two  preserved  figures  that  could 
Dot  bare  been  left  blank,  and  that  the  interval  is  truly 
F^xcseoted  seems  clear,  from  the  escape  of  the  leg  of 
Cecrops  and  the  shoulder  of  Cephisus  from  damage 
hy  the  stone  that  ruined  the  cornice  between  them. 

Photographs  of  the  cornice  as  it  exists,  with  the 
group  of  Cecrops  and  bis  wife  still  remaining,  confirm 
the  distribution  now  contended  for. 

Respecting  the  character  of  the  figure  which  I  am 
thus  prepared  to  admit,  I  have  no  hesitation,  and  claim 
it  at  once  for  a  daughter  of  Cecrops.  I  rest  still 
OQ  the  interpretation  of  my  former  essay,  that  the 
figure  grouped  immediately  with  this  hero,  can  only  be 
hie  wife,  and  as  tradition  rigorously  demands  that  he 
should  have  three  daughters,  I  was  formerly  enforced 
to  make  up  the  tale  by  claiming  as  one  the  charioteer 
of  Athene.  The  latter  figure  is  therefore  released, 
and  the  preferential  claims  of  genealogical  mythus 
being  now  otherwise  satisfied,  she  may  fairly  be  re- 
stored, though  wingless,  to  the  current  title  Nike  ;  and 
because  wingless,  all  the  more  probably  as  the  Is'ike 
Apteros  of  the  adjacent  temple  on  the  rock. 

To  the  male  figure  beyond  the  horses,  who  is  in  a  cer- 
tain sense  of  expression  her  companion,  1  assigned  in 
my  former  argument  the  title  of  Ares, — Ares  who  had 
a  certain  legendary  alliance  with  the  daughter  of  Ce- 
crops. But  the  daughter  and  the  charioteer  being  no 
longer  identified,  the  argument,  only  forlornly  hopeful 
at  first,  now  halts  without  hope,  and  I  confess  it  would 
be  agreeable  to  me  to  be  fairly  free  of  the  war-god  in 
a  scene  where  Athene  was  properly  the  sole  and  the 
sufficing  protecting  power.  Arguments  not  unplau- 
aible  may  now  urge    us  to   recognize    the  figure  as 

B  2 


4  THE    EABTBBN    PBDIHBNT 

Erysichthon  the  Cecropid,  brother  of  Agraulos,  Hene^ 
and  Pandrosos,  who,  according  to  the  records  of  Apol- 
lodorus  and  Pausanias,  dies  childless  and  fails  to  con- 
tinue the  royal  line.  Legend  at  least  distinguishes  him 
constantly  and  consistently  from  Erichthonius,  equi- 
vocal offspring  of  Athene  or  Gte,  the  vaunted  stock 
of  the  autochthonous  Athenians :  Erichthonius  as  the 
nurseling  of  the  Cecropid  virgins,  it  may  be  said,  is 
manifestly  before  us  in  the  boy  that  they  are  tending 
on  the  pediment  in  the  midst  of  their  agitation ;  and 
was  he  not,  we  may  pursue,  necessarily  represented  as 
so  youthful  in  order  to  give  expression  to  their  legen- 
dary function,  while  their  own  brother  Erysichthon  is 
fairly  presented  as  stalwart,  in  the  prime  of  manhood, 
and  not  remote  from  the  verge  of  conflict, — though 
the  conflict  of  gods  ? 

All  considerations  weighed,  however,  I  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  identify  the  hoy  as  the  Cecropid  Erysichthon, 
and  the  ephebus  more  near  to  manhood,  or  rather  in 
the  prime,  as  Erichthonius.  Erichthonius  is  the  more 
important  in  legendary  history  as  type  of  the  Athenian 
autochthon ;  his  relations  to  Athene  which  are  recog- 
nized by  Homer  are  in  harmony  with  his  independent 
proximity  to  his  patroness,  and  his  Homeric  relations 
to  the  Panathenaic  festival  are  significantly  expressed 
in  the  concern  he  tenders  to  the  government  or  course 
of  the  horses  of  the  goddess. 

"  Primus  ErichthoDioB  carrus  et  quatoor  aiuua 
JuDgere  eqnos  raptdisque  rotia  insistere  victor." 

Fwy.  Gtorg.  iii.  113-4. 

Thus  the  family  of  Cecrops  is  retained  in  an  undi* 
vided  group,  and  the  subordination  of  the  boy  is  fully 
justified  by  the  reduction  of  his  claims  to  no  more 


OF    THE    PAKTHENQN. 


1°^ 


than  a  name  that  vanishes  from  legend  without  impor- 
lanlcoasequeace  to  the  course  of  Attic  nationatity. 

/  kve  thought  it  worth  while  to  add  to  the  illustra- 
tions of  the  present  paper  two  views  of  the  folds  of  the 
mighty  serpent  on  which  Cecropa  is  seated,  in  a  man- 
ner fully  described  in  my  former  Essay.  The  appli- 
cation of  the  marble  fragment  to  the  cost  here  was  a 
prime  restoration,  authentic  by  simple  inspection,  and 
grievously  damaging  the  perspicacity  or  the  candour 
of  those  who  doubt  or  misinterpret. 

It  is  worth  while  to  notice  here  that  the  torso  of 
Erichthonjtis  in  the  Elgin  room  is  very  defectively  and 
painfully  posed  ;  it  is  erected  with  reference  solely  to 
the  centre  of  gravity  of  the  mutilated  block,  and  not 
to  the  attitude  and  expression,  which  are  accurately 
known,  of  the  figure  when  complete.  Appropriately 
adjusted  it  would  lend  to  the  assembled  groups,  shat- 
lered  though  they  be,  a  wonderful  accession  of  har- 
mody  and  play  of  line  and  force  of  effect. 

This  completes  my  palinode ;  I  would  now  willingly 
proceed  with  the  illustration  of  the  sculptures  of  the 
eastern  pediment  which  I  left  aside  in  former  days, 
hoping  that  years  in  their  process  would  indulge  me 
with  a  journey  to  Athens,  or  that  at  least  the  progress 
of  excavation  on  the  spot  would  supply  important 
elements  of  the  groups  so  lamentably  missing.  Both 
ispirations  have  been  all  but  entirely  disappointed, 
and  now  are  likely  to  be-  It  is  indeed  most  remark- 
able how  unfruitful  researches  among  the  ruins  of  the 
Athenian  Acropolis  and  about  Athens  generally,  have 
been  in  respect  of  works  of  art  of  the  first  interest 
of  the  highest  class.  In  pursuance  of  a  recommen- 
dation made  by  me  some  years  since  to  the  trustees  of 


D  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

the  Museum,  casts  of  some  of  the  most  important  frag- 
ments that  have  turned  up,  but  I  suspect  of  some 
only,  have  been  obtained  from  Athens  and  deposited 
in  the  Elgin  room,  but  they  belong  chiefly  to  the  west- 
em  front ;  the  rest  give  Uttle  help  indeed,  but  still  I 
shall  endeavour  to  extort  from  them  some  hints  to- 
wards a  conjectural  solution  of  the  grand  problem  of 
the  eastern  composition,  and  they  furnish  one  very  wel- 
come completion  of  a  subordinate  group. 

What  is  this  problem,  is  well  known  and  may  be 
stated  with  brevity.  We  know  from  Pausanias  that 
the  subject  represented  on  this  chief  front  was  the 
birth  of  Athene ;  the  whole,  he  says,  *'  has  reference  to 
the  birth  of  Athene."  Ancient  poetical  accounts  of  the 
birth  of  the  goddess  from  the  bead  of  Zeus,  cleft  by  axe 
of  his  son  Hephaestus  or  of  the  Titan  Prometheus,  are 
abundant ;  and  abound  also  painted  and  sculptured  re- 
presentations of  the  incident,  on  vases  and  bas-reliefs. 
The  treatment  of  the  subject  varies  from  quaintness 
to  ingenuity,  according  to  the  style  and  the  vehicle 
adopted ;  but  we  cannot  expect  and  shall  not  readily  find 
an  even  approximate  adumbration  of  a  form  which  shall 
avouch  a  capability  of  dignity  and  grace,  worthy  of  the 
chief  composition  of  the  chief  temple  of  Greece  in  its 
most  flourishing  day.  The  difficulties  of  the  represen- 
tation that  shall  be  both  dignified  and  definite,  are  ma- 
nifest at  once.  A  paper  on  the  subject  published  by 
Mr.  Edward  Falkener,  in  the '  Museum  of  Classical  An- 
tiquities,' renders  account  of  most  of  the  daring  fail- 
ures or  dexterous  attempts  at  evasion  of  these  difficul- 
ties by  artists  ancient  and  modern,  and  adds,  I  can  but 
say,  more  than  one  contribution  to  either  category. 
.    Brondsted,  induced  by  the  design  he  found  on  ao 


or    THE    PABTHfiNON. 


» 


Etroscan  mirror,  proposed  to  place  Zeus  enthroned  in 
I h«  centre  of  the  design,  and  to  show  a  little  Minerva 
ngiog  above   the  head  of  the  god,  immediately  under 
the  apex  of  the  pediment.      The  same  view  was  ad- 
opted by  Professor  Gerhard,  In  a  composition  adapted 
from  a   vase-painting   of    unusually   correct   design. 
This  notion,  however,  had   been   already  rejected  by 
Mr.  Cockerell,  as  might  be  expected  from  his  taste, 
and  his  scheme  of  restoration,  dechning  the  ditficulty, 
exhibits  the  presentation,  or  rather  the  appearance,  of 
Atliene,  to  the  assembly  of  the  gods.     Zeus  is  again 
enthroned  in  the  centre  of  the  pediment,  his  eagle  at 
his  feet;  the  process  of  the  miraculous  birth  is  sug- 
gested by  Hephaestus,  who  stands  at  his  right-hand 
lesnJQg  on  the  adze,  and  it  is  further  to  the  right  again, 
and  then  rushing  towards  her  i'ather  and  with  profile 
only  visible  to  the  spectator,  that  Athene  appears,  full 
grown  and  in  arms. 

I  dismiss  the  two  first  schemes  and  suggestions  as 
entirely  out  of  harmony  with  tite  spirit  of  Phidian  art. 
"Fliidias,"  it  is  excellently  said  by  Welcker,  "cannot 
have  dis6gured  by  a  monstrous  notion  of  the  obsolete 
belief  in  miracles,  and  by  a  remnant  of  the  rude  sim- 
plicity of  early  ages,  a  work  which  in  all  its  details  con- 
tains evidence  of  the  most  extraordinary  power  of  in- 
vention, and  at  the  same  time  of  the  deepest  and  purest 
artistic  taste,  and  which  throughout  breathes  liie  and 
nature,  notwithstanding  its  sublime  grandeur;  he  can* 
Dot  have  intolerably  exaggerated  in  his  colossal  marble 
a  representation  which,  destined  as  it  was  for  a  small 
paiatiug  on  a  small  vessel  and  for  small  and  limited 
circla,  was  still  bold  and  dangerous ;  and  he  cannot 
have  exhibited  such  a  thing  to  the  eyes  of  all  Greece, 


in  a  spot  which  of  all  others  at  Athens,  was  calculated 
to  invite  the  curiosity  of  all  admirers  of  art.  It  is,  in- 
deed,  repugnant  to  our  feelings  and  impossible  to  coa- 
ceive  it." 

Objections  of  a  different  class  condemn  to  my  mind 
as  decisively,  the  restoration  proposed  in  the  publi- 
cation of  the  British  Museum.  The  incident  halts 
between  the  birth  and  the  presentation,  and  becomes 
confused  and  equivocal ;  the  position  of  Athene  is  a 
countersense  from  either  point  of  view,  as  she  neither 
proceeds  from  nor  is  presented  by  her  father  Zeus. 
Her  dignity  in  the  pediment  of  her  own  temple  suffers 
by  her  subordinate  place  and  by  reduction  to  profile; 
as  well  as  by  the  fact  that  placed  as  she  is,  her  figure, 
for  want  of  heigbt,  must  have  been  on  a  smaller  scale 
than  the  Athene  on  the  western,^ — the  secondary  pe- 
diment. 

Other  difficulties,  as  unmanageabie  though  less  im- 
portant, come  in.  The  sculptor,  as  we  see  by  the  com- 
pleter pediment,  increased  the  scale  of  his  figures  as  he 
advanced  to  the  centre  ;  but  whatever  compatible  pro- 
portions might  be  given  to  Zeus,  his  seated  figure,  if 
his  feet  were  nearly  on  a  level  with  the  cornice,  must 
have  left;  a  large  vacant  space  between  his  head  and 
the  angle  of  the  pediment.  Hence  the  necessity  in  the 
design  in  question,  of  raising  his  throne  upon  a  rock, 
though  this  scarcely  does  more  than  change  the  place 
of  the  objectionable  blank,  which  again  requires  the 
introduction  of  a  somewhat  colossal  and  obtrusive  eagle 
at  the  front  of  the  god, — a  suggestion  from  a  Roman 
composition. 

From  consideration  and  feeling  for  economy  and 
haiiuony  in  distribution    of  space   therefore,   I  was 


OF    THE    PARTHENON. 


9 


* 


always  of  opiuion  that  the  centre  of  the  eastern  pedi- 
meat  was  occuj>ied  by  a  standing  figure  of  Athene,  and 
(hat  Zeus,  as  necessarily  seatedj  would  as  necessarily 
&ii<l  his  position  on  one  side  and  accommodate  the  slope 
of  the  pedimetit  aud  the  composition. 

Contrast  with  the  western  composition  requires  a 
central  figure,  and  no  less  so  that  Athene  should  here 
a^ume  the  pre-eminence  which  would  suffer  fatally  by 
ber  being  again  arranged  co-ordinately  with  either  god 
or  ^ddess. 

I  must  be  permitted  to  ascribe  it  to  bias  from  recent 
studies  of  Lycian  antiquities,  that  at  the  dale  of  my 
fonuer  e^say  I  was  content  to  seat  Zeus  and  Here  facing 
each  other  on  either  side  of  the  centre  as  in  the  Xan- 
tbian  pediment,  an  arrangement  which  invited  the  uti- 
lization of  the  group  of  Zeus  and  Hephaestus  in  the 
Rondanini  bas-relief. 

This  view  was  taken  up  by  Mr.  Falkener  [see  his 
essay,  p.  361,  note  3),  and  with  him  I  believe  still  finds 
favour.  His  central  Athene,  however,  is  winged,  and 
soars  with  unsupported  feet.  It  may  be  questioned 
whether  we  are  to  regard  her  as  soaring,  or  descend- 
ing, or  floating  in  suspense,  but  I  decline  the  analysis  ; 
I  can  but  condemn  the  suggestion  from  a  sentiment 
of  general  repugnance  v^hich  nothing  but  a  necessity 
which  does  not  appear,  would  enforce  rae  to  anatomize 
JD  detail 

A  conjectural  restoration  of  the  composition,  either 
partial  or  ambitiously  complete,  must  be  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  Phidian  art  in  any  case,  and  this 
coDditioa  observed,  may  resort  for  aid  to  the  sugges- 
tions of  the  poetical  and  mythical  descriptions  of  the 
birth  of  Athene,  or  of  parallel  incidents,  and  to  the 


THE    EASTBRN    PEDIMENT 


representation,  of  these  in  Art.  From  these  sources^ 
literary  and  monumental,  may  be  derived  a  choice  orf 
modes  of  treatment  and  hints  of  characteristic  atti- 
tudes and  gestures  j  and  whatever  materials  are  thu& 
obtained,  may  be  still  further  corrected  in  arrange- 
meat,  according  to  the  requirement  of  contrast  with 
the  western  pediment. 

The  extreme  angles  of  the  Western  pediment,  in  the 
midst  of  which  Poseidon  and  Athene  contested  for  At- 
tica, were  occupied  by  personifications  of  Attic  rivers 
and  streams  and  fountains,  and  thus,  although  the  treat- 
ment of  the  conflict  elevated  it  into  an  opposition  of 
the  elements  of  earth  and  water,  of  the  fertility  of  the 
land  and  barren  unproductive  sea,  still  the  scene  was 
not  merely  terrestrial,  but  even  local.  This  indeed 
was  the  principle  of  its  force  and  interest;  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Attica  recognized  the  enunciation  that  they  too 
were  objects  of  interest  to  the  divinity,  that  among 
them  and  on  their  very  soil  divine  agency  had  been  in 
immediate  contact  with  man  and  bis  sojourn  and  hi« 
concerns. 

The  extreme  angles  of  the  Eastern  pediment  are 
occupied  by  personifications  of  larger  range  ;  at  the 
southern  corner  Helios  and  his  horses  rise  to  the  steep 
of  morn,  and  at  the  northern  again,  Selene  sinks  down- 
ward with  her  team,  and  regards  his  rays  but  as  she 
leaves  them.  Thus  the  intermediate  space  from  angle 
to  angle,  "  where  the  bowed  welkin  low  doth  bend,"  is 
the  large  range  of  the  general  world,  and  the  grand 
span  of  the  pediment  becomes  the  wide  cope  of  heaven  ; 
and  the  scene  of  its  central  incident  is  the  ethereal 
sojourn  of  the  gods,  the  ever-enduring. 

There  was  a  particular  though  subordinate  aspect  of 


OF    TBB    PAUTHENON. 


M 


the  legendary  birth  of  Athene,  that  rendered  it  as  dts- 
lindly  eiemental  as  any  phase  of  the  conflict  of  the 
goddess  with  tiie  sea-god.  By  familiar  allegory  the 
goddess,  azure-eyed,  was  recognized  as  the  pure  blue 
ether;  and  in  her  birth  from  the  head  of  Zeus  when 
deft  by  the  golden  axe  of  the  fire-god,  the  Greek 
was  wont,  among  many  other  meanings,  to  accept  a 
typical  expression  of  the  clear  brifiht  sky  reappearing 
id  the  suromil  of  heaven  through  clouds  divided  and 
dispersed,  by  the  light niug-glance.  (Aristoteles,  ap. 
Schol.  Pindar.  Olymp.  viil.) 

These  associations,  however,  were  the  glimmering 
background  tliat  threw  into  relief  a  broader  incident 
and  more  impressive  outline.  The  goddess  who  pro- 
tected and  gave  her  name  to  Athens,  was  here  brought 
iDto  immediate  relationship  to  the  great  Olympian 
power,  of  whose  force  and  whose  foresight  she  was  the 
recognized  personification.  The  same  phraseology  that 
Vie  are  bo  familiar  with  in  later  religions,  which  as- 
cribes to  the  miraculous  oflspring  of  the  Supreme,  the 
full  essence  of  paternal  wisdom  and  power,  and  by 
which  he  becomes  the  single  instrument  of  all  divine 
operations,  even  from  the  beginning,  had  long  before 
been  exercised  and  exhausted  on  the  functions  of 
Athcue  in  relation  to  Zeus.  She  participates  and  even 
prompts  his  counsels,  she  keeps  and  even  wields  his 
thanderbolts.' 


'  £Khylua.  Eumenid.   817;   Yicg.  vGiteid,  i.  46.     See  Creuzer. 
SvDibolik,  iii.  462  and  at  large. 

Ifrav  fyavfTtu/  iraTpi  fttvo^  vat  t']n'f>pova  povXtfv, 

Thsogon,  806-900. 


1$ 


THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 


It  is  true  that  these  conceptions,  as  most  definitely 
pronounced  by  non-Christian  Greek  writers,  occur  aa 
late  as  the  days  of  Aristides  and  of  Proclus,  Here  it 
is  that  Athene  is  declared  in  positive  terms  and  in- 
sisted on  repeatedly,  as  *'  the  great  power  of  God,  the 
Divine  Wisdom  and  Foreknowledge.''  This  however 
was  the  reappearance  on  the  surface  of  the  web  of 
polite  literature,  of  threads  of  association  that  in  fact 
are  continuous  from  its  commencement,  however  they 
may  vanish  from  time  to  time  and  be  covered  up  so  as 
to  cheat  the  eyes  of  the  superficial  critic  and  investi- 
gator. 

Allegory  the  most  obtrusive,  and  physical  and  meta- 
physical personifications  in  barest  manifestations,  seem 
no  doubt  out  of  keeping  with  the  concrete  forms  of 
Homeric  poetry,  but  they  are  as  salient  in  Hesiodic  as 
in  Aristides  or  in  Proclus  himself.  In  Hesiod  they  have 
somewhat  of  the  air  of  veritable  archaisms,  which  the 
development  of  artistic  taste  is  on  the  point  of  super- 
seding ;  but  they  lived  on  in  mystic  formulEis  and  the 
undercurrents  of  superstitious  tradition,  and  among 
them  were  not  a  few  that  were  thought  worthy  of  re- 
suscitation in  new  forms  of  life  by  the  genius  of  Plato. 

Tiie  conditions  and  the  details  of  physical  and  me- 
taphysical mythology, — of  poetry  in  which  speculation 
and  dogma  have  the  upperhand  of  imagery  and  abuse 
the  advantage,  are  most  rife  at  the  dawn  and  at  the 
wane  of  Greek  literature;  it  is  by  comparison  of  these 
two  periods  that  we  may  learn  to  appreciate  many  an 
enigma  in  the  interval.  With  such  bints  to  aid,  the  acute 
and  practised  analyst  has  easily  traced  the  vestiges  of 
such  earlier  creations  in  the  highly  metamorphic  poetry 
of  Homer  himself;  he  discerns  and  can  demonstrate 


OF    THE    PARTHBNON. 


13 


steps  of  the  Physicist  and  the  Theologian  or  Theo- 

sophist  of  these  priniifival  systems  in  the  very  seces- 

mn  of  wrathful  Achilles^  in  the  intrigue  of  Aphrodite 

the  war-god,  in  the  vain  effort  of  the  united  gods 

Iq  drag  the  chain  which  is  grasped  immovably  by  the 

Eingle  hand  of  Zeus,  in  the  suspension  by  a  golden 

cbain  of  the  sister-spouse  of  the  Thunderer,  a  pair  of 

laaTxls  swinging  from  her  ankles,  and  lastly  and  most 

to  our  purpose  in  the  glorious  and  Miltonic  picture  of 

Athene  arraying  herself  in  the  power  and  segis  of  her 

father  as  she  let  fall  her  own  self-woven  peplue  over  the 

starry  floor  of  heaven  (Iliad,  v.  734). 

The  miraculous  birth  of  the  intermediate  link  be- 
tween the  godhead  and  protected  man,  the  strangely 
supernatural  origin  of  the  tutelary  power,  is  a  condi- 
tion that  religious  man  has  ever  exacted  with  rigour. 
Ilia  thus  indeed  that  the  mind  not  hardily  consecutive, 
persuades  itself  that  it  has  reached  a  beginning,  has 
fathomed  the  infinite,  has  arrived  at  a  cause  compre- 
heoding  all  causation.  Who  does  not  know  the  va- 
garies that  the  human  mind  has  been  betrayed  into  in 
itAvain  endeavours  to  repudiate  its  inevitable  limita- 
tions? The  Oriental  theologian  has  to  abide  the  ques- 
tioner who  demands  what  is  it  that  sustains  the  tortoise 
that  sustains  the  elephant  that  sustains  the  world; 
and  is  urged  as  relentlessly  as  is  his  brother  of  the 
West,  who  rising  from  the  analogy  of  the  watch  and 
its  contriver  to  infer  from  the  cosmos  a  Creator,  has 
still  to  reply  to  the  challenge, — who  made  the  watch- 
maker? Dogmatism  which  is  ignorance,  must  settle 
itsoivn  complications  with  pragmatical  insolence,  which 
is  but  ignorance  too ;  but  in  the  meantime  it  will  be 
difficult  to  find  a  single  record  of  systematic  supersti- 


H 


THE    BA6TBRN    PEDIMENT 


tioti  that  does  Dot  rest  complacently  upon  a  type  oi 
miraculous  birth  of  Godhead  from  Godhead,  and  fre- 
quently we  find  a  series  superimposed  ;  as  the  birth  of 
Zeus  himself  had  in  his  day  fulfilled  the  same  condi- 
tions, and  the  necessary  law  did  not  ultimately  spare 
to  exact  maternity,  even  from  the  virgin  Athene.' 

At  Delphi,  where  the  traditions  and  worships  of 
Apollo  and  Dionysus  so  strangely  and  curiously 
blended,  one  pediment  of  the  great  temple  was  as- 
signed to  either  god  in  the  works  of  the  sculptorSr 
who  were  from  Athens.  Dionysus  and  the  Hyad 
on  the  western  front  contrasted  with  the  Apollo  and 
Muses  on  the  eastern.  In  the  weistern  composition 
the  sun  was  represented  as  setting,  in  accordance  with 
the  propriety  of  the  aspect  but  also  in  accordance  wit 
the  symbolism  of  Dionysus,  visitant  of  Hades,  as  th 
sun  in  the  inferior  hemisphere,  a  nocturnal  sun-g 
(cf.  Macrobius.) ;  even  as  Apollo  on  the  east  is  the  trm 
day-star,  the  god  or  <jenius  of  the  risen  and  shining  sun 

Tbe  scene  of  the  Ion  of  Euripides  is  laid  before  th 
front  of  this  Delphic  temple  at  early  morning,  and 
the  opening  speeches  and  choruses  are  replete  with 
allusions  to  sunrise  and  to  the  bright  and  pooipou 
quadriga  of  the  day-god. 

It  must  6u9ice  to  observe  at  present,  with  respect  ti 
the  terminal  groups  of  the  Parthenon  pediment,  th 
while  the  figures  by  their  disposition  connect  them 
selves  with  the  types  of  Eastern  and  Western  boundary, 
they  are  stiU  agitated  in  sympathy  with  the  centra 
incident,  and  show  awakened  or  awakening  conscioua 
ness  of  the  critical  event.     This  far-spreading  and  in 

'  Ciceru,  De  Nat.  iJeor.  jii.  21. — Strabo,  x.  472.— Gerhard^  Elt 
Spiegrl,  ii.  165. 


OP    THE    FARTHENON, 


15 


Btant  recogiiition  at  the  very  limits  of  tfae  universe, 
embodies  a  detail  of  the  description  in  that  Homeric 
hymn  to  Pallas,  which  no  doubt  to  Phidias  as  to  Thu- 
cydides,  would  have  the  authority  of  a  hyam  of  Ho- 
mer. It  celebrates  Pallas  Athene,  Tritonian,  "whom 
Zeus  of  himself  gave  birth  to,  from  hiis  venerated  head, 
already  clad  in  arms  of  war,  golden,  refulgent  \ — awe 
took  possession  of  all  the  beholding  immortals.  She 
lo  the  front  of  jEgis-bearing  Zeus  vehemently  rushed 
on  from  his  immorial  head,  shaking  a  pointed  spear. 
Mighty  Olympus  was  convulsed  fearfully  of  the  force- 
ful blue-eyed  goddess ;  Earth  from  side  to  side  dire- 
fuliy  gave  forth  a  sound  ;  Sea  too  was  moved,  working 
mth  purpling  waves,  and  the  brine  was  effused  upon 
a  sudden,^  and  the  bright  son  of  Hyperion  stayed 
his  swift  horses  for  the  time,  until  the  virgin  Pallas 
Athene  had  removed  from  her  immortal  shoulders  tlie 
divine  armour ;  and  glad  was  providential  Zeus." 

The  delight  of  Zeus,  well-pleased  in  his  single  and 
independent  offspring,  is  characteristic  theologically, 
as  expressive  of  the  full  symp^ithy  whereby   she  be- 
comes his  representative,  not  to  say  equivalent.     The 
trait  is  insisted  upon  in  the  description  of  Philostratus, 
who,  however  late  in  date,  gives  many  true  reflections 
from  earlier  images  and  modes  of  conception  (Imag. 
tt.'27).  "Zeus,"  he  says  in  describing  a  pictorial  re- 
BlKDtation,  "  is  drawing  his  breath  with  dehght  as 
^ney  who  have  just  wrought  out  a  mighty  contest  for 
agreat  prize,  and  he  is  perusing  his  daughter  as  exult- 
ing in  the  birth." 
■    I  feel  confidence  that  this  expression,  as   on   this 
occasion,  may  be  recognized  in  more  than  one  instance 

*  I  oilopt  Bsuueieter'B  emeadatioD  here, — tK^ma  S^aX^i},  for  itr^ro, 


THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

among  the  busts  and  statues  of  Olympian  Zeus  that 
have  been  preserved  to  us.  Examples  will  be  found 
represented  by  MUller  (Denkmaler,  ii,  1),  I  have  inserted 
two  among  the  illustrations.  The  first  I  would  refer  to 
is  the  head  of  the  Thunderer  as  youthful,  in  the  Town- 
ley  collection^  of  peculiarly  mild,  indeed  of  sweet  and 
complacent  expression.  The  absence  of  the  slightest 
tinge  of  unearuestness,  mischief,  or  malice,  forbids  us 
to  interpret  the  smile  as  the  sardonic  satisfaction  as- 
cribed by  Hesiod  to  the  god,  when  he  had  hatched  his 
cruel  plot  against  the  comfort  of  mankind  by  the  trick- 
ing out  and  dispatch  of  Pandora, — the  rise  of  woman. 

The  expression  of  well-pleased  regard  is  still  more 
distinctly  given  in  the  Zeus  ^giochus  of  the  cameo 
(Midler,  ii.  1,5),  said  to  be  of  suspected  antiquity,  but 
fully  allowed  by  me.  Miiller,  designating  the  god  as 
conqueror  of  the  Titans  or  giants,  says,  "  He  is  still 
clad  in  the  .^gis,  but  has  already  crowned  himself  with 
the  oaken  crown  as  victor."  I  mistrust  altogether  the 
reference  to  a  fight,  and  believe  that  the  proper  oaken 
wreath  of  Zeus  is  assumed  here,  if  for  any  victory, 
for  that  which  Philoslratus  ascribes  to  him,  successful 
childbirth-  Special  account  need  not,  raethinks,  he 
rendered  of  the  -lEgis,  or  if  at  all  we  may  remember 
that  the  Zeus  of  the  Homeric  hymn  is  designated  as 
^giochus  on  the  very  occasion  to  which  I  seek  to  ap- 
propriate tiie  head.  The  Zeus  of  the  Beugnot  vase- 
painting  is  crowned,  and  so  also,  and  not  undeservedly, 
is  the  successful  operator  Hephaestus. 

But  still  more  remarkably  to  thu  purpose  is  a  small 
bronze  bust  of  the  Museum  Odescalcum  [it.  xxxiii. 
88  ;  Miiller,  Denk.  ii.  29,  and  see  the  illustration),  of 
which  Miiller  simply  notes  the  expression  as  peculiar. 


OF    THE    PARTHENON. 


17 


oaken  crown  recurs ;  a  winged  thunderbolt  may  be 
not  unreminiscenl  of  the  elemental  allegory  ot  the  light- 
ning-cleft ether;  and  most  peculiarly,  a  hood-like  veil 
retained  over  the  back  of  the  head  by  the  wreath,  drops 
down  behind  and  falls  on  either  shoulder. 

u  would  be  daring  to  speak  too  strongly  of  expres- 
sian,  with  no  more  exact  authority  than  this  engrav- 
ing: but  1  may  say  that  to  me  it  conveys  the  idea  of 
mingled  pleasure  and  lingering  pain,  and  I  am  pre- 
pared to  claim  the  crown  and  veil  or  hood,  together,  aB 
the  well-imagined  intimations  and  symbols  of  the  oc- 
casion of  such  cont5ict,  the  pain  and  joy  of  the  birth 
o(  the  blue-eyed  goddess. 

By  what  arrangement  or  contrivance  may  the  sculp- 
tor of  the  pediment  have  precluded  with  equal  success, 
Iibe  unhandsome  suggestions  the  combination  was  open 
fc?  If  Zeus  be  seated  with  his  back  to  the  pediment, 
|l  in  the  restoration  of  the  British  Museum  publi- 
cation, annoying  conjectures  vex  the  spectator  who 
knows  the  story,  as  to  how  the  officious  fire-god  found 
opportunity  and  position  for  his  energetic  act,  and  by 
wbat  twist  it  was  that  the  liberated  goddess  so  dex- 
terously and  suddenly  reversed  the  disadvantage  of  her 
first  appearance.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  position 
of  the  Rondanini  bas-relief  be  adopted,  according  to 
oiy  earlier  ideaj  the  mischievous  play  of  association 
again  brings  in  vexation  by  the  exposure  of  the  skull 
of  the  god,  while  the  goddess  herself  is  in  a  false  rela- 
tive position  and  contradicts  her  origin. 

Therefore  it  is  that  I  turn  again  to  the  collections  of 
antique  designs,  and  seek  for  hint  of  a  healthier  and 
happier  scheme  of  composition,  among  representations 
fragmentary  or  complete,  of  subjects  that  are  attached 


VOL.   VII. 


18 


TH£    BASTBKN    PEDIMENT 


to  this  by  analogy.  Elucidations  of  the  design  of  Phi- 
dias may  be  fairly  sought  from  works  that  represeol 
the  same  or  a  like  iacideat  from  an  anterior  period 
and  style  among  the  painted  vases,  and  then  among 
wox'ks  of  later  date,  bas-reliefs  and  statues  that  date 
even  long  after  his  time.  In  one  case  we  may  look 
for  hints  and  suggestions  that  he  made  available,  and 
in  the  other,  with  great  good-fortune  to  aid,  we  might 
light  on  an  imitation  or  a  reflection.  The  scheme  of 
composition  of  the  ^ginetan  pediment  is  most  stri- 
kingly in  agreement  with  a  series  of  vase-paintings  of 
similar  subjects  ;  and  of  some  of  the  works  of  Phidias 
it  is  certain  that  there  are  preserved  to  us  at  least  imi- 
tative though  not  emulative  repetitions. 

In  the  bas-reliefs  259  and  324  in  the  Louvre,  re- 
produced in  our  engraving,  we  meet  with  figures  of  the 
seated  Zeus  repeated  with  remarkable  similarity,  as  if 
derived  from  a  common  originaL     He  is  seated  to  the 
right ;  but,  with  three-quarter  face  turned  to  the  spec- 
tator, looks  the  other  way  as  he  leans  his  left  hand  be- 
hind him  on  his  throne.     His  right  hand  grasps  the 
sceptre,  and  in  the  first  example  he  looks  with  interest 
towards  a  group  where  Gaia,  half-emergent  from  the 
earth,  lifts  up  an  infant  to  a  female  figure,  while  ano- 
ther, who  leans  on  a  short  column,  is  looking  on,    This 
incident,  except  for  the  presence  of  Zeus,  has  closest 
agreement  with  the  legends  and  representations  of  the 
birth  of  earth&prung  Erichthonius  ;  the  comparison  of 
a  vase-painting  however  (Denkmnler,  ii.  401),  approves 
the  sagacity  of  Visconti,  who  recognized  it  as  a  version 
of  the  birth  of  Dionysus,  unrecorded  in  literature,  ac- 
cording to  which  the  wine-god  completed  his  term  not 
in  the  thigh  of  the  Thunderer,  but  in  the  maturing  sod 


OF    THE    PARTHEiNON. 


19 


earth.  In  the  vase-picture  it  is  Athene  herself  who 
receives  the  infant.  A  winged  Victory  springs  eagerly 
Bfbrward  with  the  taenia,  the  symbol  of  triumphant  ac- 
complishment, and  Zeus  stands  by,  an  attentive  wit- 
Loess,  while  the  Bacchic  nymph  CEnanthe — so  inscribed, 
leans  on  his  indulgent  shoulder,  with  a  familiarity  that 
would  not  be  too  little  thougli  she  were,  as  she  may 
be,  the  equivalent  of  Seraele  herself. 

If  we  turn  now  to  our  second  bas-relief,*  we  find  that 
the  incident  to  which  Zeus  directs  his  looks  is  not 
pTfiserved.  The  analogy  is  avouched  however  by  a 
parallel  that  is  missing  in  the  completer  bas-relief,  for 
here,  as  on  the  vase,  we  have  the  youthful  female 
figure  resting  her  arm  on  his  shoulder,  and  here  her 
gesture  seems  to  be  directing  his  attention  to  the 
object,  whatever  it  was,  that  he  sways  his  head  and 
chest  to  enable  him  to  behold.  Another  sceptred 
female  is  in  attendance.  There  is  a  certain  exhaustion 
and  submissiveness  in  the  air  and  action  of  Zeus,  that 
txpresses  to  me  the  parturient  god  ;  and  I  eagerly 
Kize  on  the  figure  as  giving  a  better  type  than  any 
liitherto  suggested,  for  the  attitude  and  position  of  the 
Zeas  of  the  Eastern  pediment.  The  sculptor  would 
thus  gain  for  the  spectator  the  full  value  of  expres- 
sioQ  of  the  face  of  the  god  ;  be  escapes  the  offensive 
suggestions  of  the  exposed  bralo-pan  ;  he  realizes  the 
bappy  moment,  worth  gold  in  sculpture,  the  moment 
of  pause  upon  an  expressive  gesture,  when  like  the 
Vive  uj>on  the  curl,  it  embodies  as  it  culminates  the 

pulse  which  bore  it  to  its  height,  and  prefigures  the 
decline. 

By  an  interpretation  scarcely  worth  regardj  the  sub- 
*  DuuilJon,  Mus,  des  Ant,  I.  75. 

c  2 


* 


1      ftTl 

Pira, 


THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 


ject  of  the  bas-relief  has  hitherto  been  called  the  Sup- 
plication of  Thetis. 

Archaic  vase-paintings  preserve  curious  records  of 
the  same  tranquillity  of  expression  that  I  note  in  the 
bas-relief.  The  design,  Denknialer  ii.  393,  mi^ht  be 
thought  equivocal  taken  alone ;  but  comparison  of 
numbers  227,  228,  will  fully  vindicate  the  comparisoa, 
Here  the  birth  of  Athene  is  as  manifestly  as  quaintly 
represented,  and  helpful  Eilithyia,  who  appears  with 
name  inscribed  on  the  Beugnot  vase,  is  attendant  and 
marked  as  ministrant  with  expansive  gestures. 

To  complete  the  notice  of  illustrative  parallels,  1 
may  observe  that  Nike,  on  the  Beugnot  vase,  hastens 
with  her  ready  wreath  to  greet  the  birth  of  Athene,  as 
on   the  cited  vase  she  gratulates  the  birth  of  the  nol 
dissimilarly  autophuous  Dionysus.     The  action  of  He- 
plisestus  also  curiously  anticipates  that  of  tiie  godoi* 
the  Rondanini  bas-relief,  as  he  starts  away  from  the 
stricken  Zeus,  axe  in  hand,  and  looks  back  at  the  glo- 
rious birth  in  surprised  and  fearful  admiration. 

Simply  then  as  a  matter  of  conjecture,  as  an  attemp 
to  supply  a  solution  surpassing  previous  attempts  by" 
at  least  possessing  a  single  element  of  plausible  pro- 
priety, 1  propose  to  place  the  erect  and  radiant  and 
exulting  Athene  in  the  centre  of  her  own  pediment; 
to  place  her  father  Zeus  in  close  proximity,  seated  to 
her  right,  and  so  seated  that  it  is  rather  by  inclination 
of  his  swaying  body,  that  he  turns  to  regard  her  with 
full  and  gratified  admiration.  I  should  suspect  that  a, 
female  figure,  the  equivalent  of  Eilithyia  if  not  herself, 
was  grouped  with  Zeus,  and  it  is  always  open  to  artis- 
tic experiment  to  further  extend  the  restoration  to  the 
right  of  Zeus,  by  adaptation  of  the  figure  of  Hephsestua 


I 


OF    THE    PAinilENON. 


21 


frOTu  the  Rondanini  and  Beuguot  designs,  if  not  rather 


—and  this  is  the 


I  preter- 


transfer  this 


!  arrangement 

fig:ure  to  the  left  of  the  blue-eyed  goddess,  as  giving 
more  force  and  expression  to  the  suddenness  of  her 
appearance. 

We  can  scarcely  refuse  to  the  erect  and  sceptred 
goddess  to  the  right  of  Zeus  on  the  bas-rL'lief*,  the  title 
of  Here;  the  figure  is  very  ineffectively  composed,  and 
docs  not  impress  me  with  any  instructive  reference  to 
Ihe  pediment  composition. 

This  arrangement,  in  fact^  1  find  to  be  recommendeid 
if  not  enforced  by  a  piece  of  very  reuiarkable  munu- 
[iDeaital  evidence. 

Among  the  casts  obtained  from  the  Acropolis,  is  one 
^i  eery  remarkable  male  torso,  of  excellent  worli^  and 
lortby  of  the  pediment-    Arms,  legs,  and  head  are  gone, 
jind  yet  is  it  possible  to  restore  with  certainty  the  ge- 
Ueral  attitude  of  the  figure  at  least,  if  not  something 
Uore.     The  scale  is  colossal,  but  the  muscular  deve- 
lopment is  more  than  proporlioimtely  stalwart,  espe- 
cially  about  the  shoulders  and    deltoids.     This  is  a 
!  distribution  of  mass  which  would  be  suitable  for  the 
idealized  form  of  the  forger  of  the  bolts  of  Jove. 

Bugh  of  the  slerno-mastoid  muscle  remains  to 
show  that  the  head  was  turned  towards  the  right 
shoulder.  In  the  same  manner  below,  from  the  ob- 
lique tnuscles  of  the  abdomen,  their  tension  on  the 
right  and  bulge  on  the  left  side,  it  is  clear  that  the 
weight  of  the  body  rested  on  the  left  leg.  When  the 
fragment  is  posed  in  accordance  with  these  indications, 
there  is  little  difficulty  in  recovering  the  action  of  the 
inns,  and  the  geneial  attitude  comes  out  as  by  the 
aid  of  my  friend  Mr.  Bonomi  I  have  inserted  it  In  the 


22  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

group.     I  may  notice  that  the  representation  of  the 
figure  is  conscientiously  to  scale. 

The  action  of  Hephaestus,  so  to  call  him,  places  him 
incontrovertibly  on  the  left-hand  of  Athene.  My  con- 
ception of  his  action  is  that  he  has  delivered  his 
wonder-working  stroke  and  starts  back  at  the  result. 
His  right  hand  flies  up  in  amaze  and  admiration,  while 
his  left  retains  hold  of  the  "golden  adze"  which  a 
moment  before  he  was  wielding  with  double  grasp. 
The  instrument  being  held  in  the  weaker  hand  only, 
relieves  it  from  any  appearance  of  being  about  to  re- 
peat the  blow. 

I  have  varied  the  action  of  EiUthyia  from  the  bas- 
relief  in  order  to  harmonize  it  with  the  lively  excite- 
ment required  by  the  composition,  while  preserving  an 
appropriate  expression  and  grace. 

The  group  is  completed  by  seating  Here  symmetri- 
cally with  Zeus.  Even  for  this  figure  I  have  a  certain 
authority ;  for  it  is  thus — seated  with  her  back  to  the 
event,  and  regarding  it  with  head  over  her  shoulder, 
that  Here  is  witness  of  the  birth  of  Athene  on  a  vase- 
painting  published  in  the  collection  of  Le  Normant. 

In  this  hypothetical  arrangement,  I  think  the  tale 
is  at  least  told  intelligibly,  and  told  without  ungraceful- 
ness,  while  the  scheme  is  not  adjusted  without  a  cer- 
tain degree  of  monumental  authority  for  every  figure. 

My  first  design  was  to  place  the  enthroned  divinities 
immediately  next  to  Athene,  but  after  full  considera- 
tion, I  rest  as  I  have  shown  in  the  engraving. 

But  the  origin  of  my  central  goddess  has  not  yet 
been  adverted  to. 

The  cited  bas-relief  being  admitted  as  a  plausible 
conception  for  the  position  of  Zeus  on  the  pediment 


OP  THE    PAHtyENON. 


33 


the  temptation  h  irresistible  to  look  round  through 
ttc  antique  remaios  for  the  representation  of  Athene 
which  shall  be  at  least  the  most  in  harmony  with  the 
conditions  that  have  been  assumed, 

A  6gure  is  required,  which  in  its  most  beautiful 
polat  of  view  shall  present  almost,  or  perhaps  exactly, 
ihe  front  face;  lively,  energetic,  nay  warlike  move- 
meat  is  demanded  by  the  spirit  of  the  Homeric  hymn, 
rhich,  whether  it  were  the  text  of  Phidias  or  not,  IB 
BQSIained  by  the  groups,  so  far  as  preserved,  and  also 
bytlie  description  of  Pindar,  t!ie  atjreenient  of  which 
avouches  the  deep  acceptance  oi'  this  ideal  of  the  event 
bytlie  general  Hellenic  mind. 

"  Wbat  lime  his  brazen  axe  etout  Vulcan  (Irove, 
And  Pallas  from  the  Thnnil^rer's  rifttfd  crowii 
With  outcry  loud  and  long  impetuouB  broke. 
Heaven  ehuddered  and  old  Eartb  with  dread  roateriiat  sliook." 
I  Oit/mp.  vii. 

■     The  forward  on-rush  and  the  shaken  spear  are  indis- 
IF  pensable  characteristics ;  but  yet  the  stride  must  be  so 
I'     managed  or  qualified  as  not  to  diminish  majesty  by 
B  greatly  reducing  the  apparent  height  of  the  figure,  as 
well  as  from  respect  to  the  limit  of  depth  from  plane 
of  tympanum  to  edge  of  cornice^  the  span  of  available 
support.     Again,  if  the  spear  were  vibrated  over  the 
shoulder,  the  proprieties  of  balance  and  gesture  would 
throw  the  butt  bo  far  in  the  rear  that  it  must  effec- 
tirely  pierce  the  plane  of  the  tympanum,  while  the 
spear-head  in  front    would    stick   out   most  unhand- 
somely  beyond  the  controlling  plumb-line   from  the 
p^d  cymatium.  Besides  all  these  incongruities,  there 
Hb  the  serious   consideration  that  the  goddess,  thus 
Crashing  forward  with  directly  poised  and  menacing 


THE    EASTERN    PEDIMSNT 


I 


spear,  would  have  an  expression  that  postulates  a  de- 
finite enemy,  while  her  protected  people  and  special 
worshipers  are  alone  the  occupants  of  the  place  of  ex- 
posure and  alarm. 

Having  regard  to  all  these  circumstances,  I  find 
much  satisfaction  in  adopting  as  at  least  my  own  fa- 
vourite type  and  adumbration  of  the  Athene  of  the 
pediment,  the  slalue  engraved  by  Visconti,  plate  xxiii. 
vol.  2,  oi  the  Museo  Pio-Cletnentino. 

"  This  statue  of  Pallas,"  says  Viconti,  "  (7  palms  in 
height  or  6  pal.  8  onz.  without  the  plinth,)  is  interest- 
ing for  its  happy  and  natural  attitude,  which  conveys 
to  us  the  warlike  and  bold  character  of  the  warrior- 
virgin,  and  at  the  same  time  expresses  the  etymology 
of  her  name,  whether  in  Greek  or  Latin,  Pallas  or  Mi- 
nerva. If  the  latter  were  derived  from  the  military 
rage  or  menacing  aspect  of  the  goddess,  no  figure  can 
be  found  which  more  excellently  represents  Minerva 
armed  with  her  lance,  with  which  she  overthrows  whole 
legions  of  heroes  (Iliad,  E.  746).  If  she  was  named 
Pallas  from  the  force  with  which  she  brandishes  and 
hurls  this  terrible  weapon,  there  is  no  other  statue 
which  presents  her  in  this  attitude,  in  the  words  of 
Homer,  traversing  the  defiles  of  fight,  .  .  .  The  statue 
itself,  in  respect  of  workmanship,  is  below  mediocrity, 
and  only  preserves  to  us  the  admirable  movement  of 
the  original." 

Of  the  movement  thus  preserved,  I  can  only  judge 
through  the  medium  of  an  engraving  which  1  repro- 
duce ;  but  this  impresses  me  with  a  sentiment  by  no 
means  so  absolutely  limited  by  military  fierceness  and 
menace.  The  energy  of  the  action  seems  to  me  to  have 
been  originally  tempered  with  the  gracefulness  of  con- 


OF   THE    PARTHENON. 


25 


lours  and  movements,  and  a  tenderness  of  beauty  ap- 
propriate to  the  goddess — even  Athene,  when  conceived 
ioaccordance  with  the  occasion,  under  the  most  youth- 
ful ideal.  Legend  had  more  than  one  anecdote  to  re- 
late, bow  other  feelings  besides  unmixed  awe  greeted 
her  first  appearance  to  the  immortals,  armed  and  at 
maturity,  and  movements  of  admiration,  of  love,  of  ri- 
Talry,  were  ejccited  for  the  bright  and  beautiful  appa- 
rition. I  should  conjecture  with  confidence,  therefore, 
that  Phidias  blended  youthful  beauty  with  majestic 
energy  in  the  cew-born  Athene  of  the  pediment,  and 
tempered  with  a  sentiment  of  exulting  happiness,  the 
conscious  force  and  energy  of  the  favourite  daughter  of 
Olympian  Zeus. 

It  is  not  noted  whether  the  arms  of  the  statue  I 
refer  to  are  restored  ;  but  their  action  cannot  have  been 
Wry  different  to  that  assigned.  The  spear  ia  grasped 
id  the  same  way  as  that  of  the  Athene  of  the  .ffigine- 
Un  pediment,  and  the  "  sharp  point  "  would  rise  above 
llie  helmet,  and  in  every  way  harmonize  with  and  help 
tbe  effect.  1  would  willingly  believe  that  it  was  in 
truth  the  gleam  of  the  metallic  head  of  this  spear,  that 
the  voyager  to  Athens  hailed  from  afar  at  the  moment 
that  he  was  rounding  the  promontory  of  Sunium. 

The  Elgin  collection  comprises  a  fragment  of  the 
mask  of  Athene,  the  eye  hollowed  to  receive  a  coloured 
eye,  portion  of  the  forehead,  cheek,  and  nose,  and  a 
formal  lock  of  hair.  It  is  by  this  lock^  from  its  agree- 
meat  with  the  effigy  of  the  favourite  archaic  tetra- 
drachm  of  the  Athenians,  that  we  certainly  recognize 
the  fragment  as  part  of  the  goddess.  The  head  was 
colossal — but  I  hesitate  to  argue  that  it  pertained  to 
the  pediment  tigure. 


26  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

I  have  now  exhausted  my  courage  of  conjecture, 
and  withhold  from  any  further  attempt  to  divine  the 
powers  introduced  by  Phidias  into  proximity  with  the 
cebtral  group,  their  attitudes  and  the  principle  of  their 
relation  to  the  lines  of  the  composition. 

There  is  no  lack  of  gods  and  goddesses  plausible 
claimants  for  introduction,  but  I  confess  that  the 
artistic  problem  of  disposing  and  employing  them  so 
as  to  unite  harmoniously  the  central  with  the  terminal 
groups  is  too  much  for  my  courage,  and  in  any  case  I 
am  averse  to  propose  merely  arbitrary  groups  without 
the  aid  I  have  hitherto  derived  from  the  analogy  of 
monuments  or  hint  of  a  fragment. 


It  is  in  accordance  with  a  general  principle  of  con- 
trast, that  the  reclining  figures  at  the  extreme  angles 
which  on  the  western  pediment  are  prone,  on  the 
eastern  are  supine.  The  same  difference  is  observable 
between  the  two  pairs  of  wounded  warriors  that  oc- 
cupy angles  of  the  respective  iEginetan  pediments. 

Properly  to  appreciate  all  the  contrasts  in  the  Par- 
thenon compositions,  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  the 
pediments  in  effect  were  placed  back  to  back,  and  are 
therefore  inappropriately  compared  when  shown  in  an 
engraving  on  the  same  page,  or  pages  following  on  the 
same  side.  The  groups  on  either  front  would  be  illu- 
minated by  sunlight  from  the  soiith  at  mid-day :  but  as 
the  spectator  passed  round  the  building,  the  shadow- 
side  of  the  figures,  which  in  the  west  aspect  is  to  his 
left,  on  the  east  is  on  his  right  hand.  And  conversely, 
as  regards  the  groups  themselves,  the  left  sides  of  the 
statues  are  in  fullest  glare  on  the  west  front ;  and  on  the 


OF   THE    PARTHKNON.  27 

chief  front,  not  without  some  opportunities  of  advan- 
t^us  improvement,  on  the  right.  At  the  same  time, 
in  virtue  of  the  breadth  of  architectural  efiect  with 
iriiich  general  direction  of  illumination  would  concur, 
the  northern  half  of  one  pediment  would  be  the  true 
seat  of  contrast  with  the  northern  half  of  the  other, 
and  the  southern  with  the  southern. 

Accordingly  while  both  pediments  agree  in  the  con- 
trast of  god  and  goddess  at  opposite  angles,  the  north- 
em  angle  of  the  west  front  shows  a  reclining  god  in 
antithesis  to  the  reclining  goddess  of  the  north-east 
angle  and  so  conversely.  Analogous  variations  are 
managed  in  the  iSginetan  pediments  ;  but  not  without 
a  certain  archaic  harshness  and  formality.  Blending 
by  agreement  and  Contrast  by  difference,  are  the  great 
resources  and  instruments  of  artistic  composition ;  but 
the  best  efficiency  of  either,  is  contingent  on  such  direc- 
tion of  its  predominance  that  it  subdues  and  harmo- 
nizes, but  does  not  obliterate,  the  influence  of  its  rival. 

The  correspondence  of  the  groups  at  the  angles  of 
the  eastern  pediments,  exhibits  a  triumph  of  harmony. 
On  either  side  we  have  the  horses  of  personified  lumi- 
naries :  at  the  south  the  fresh  horses  of  Helios  strain- 
ing for  the  skies  ;  at  the  north,  Selene  was  stooping  to 
her  team,  whose  declining  course  was  indicated  by  the 
mouth  of  one  steed  being  so  far  depressed  as  to  over- 
lap the  line  of  the  horizontal  cornice. 

On  either  side  follows  a  group  of  one  reclining  and 
two  seated  figures,  but  on  the  south  side  the  two  inner 
and  seated  figures  are  most  closely  associated ;  while 
on  the  north,  companionship  is  most  closely  linked 
between  the  outer  pair,  of  whom  the  reclining  figure, 
feminine  and  most  delicately  draped,  has  a  contrast  of 


28  THB    BASTBRN    PEDIMENT 

its  own  with  the  nude  contours  of  the  reclining  god 
of  the  south. 

The  triple  goddesses  of  the  north  angle  have  been 
and  may  be  confidently  identified  as  the  Hoirai,  the 
Fates  triform,  to  whom  ^schylus  ascribes  such  pro- 
found significance.  By  their  hature  and  function  these 
personifications  are  constantly  introduced  in  birth- 
scenes,  and  they  are  also  constantly  connected  by 
Greek  art  with  the  grandest  Powers,  and  in  frequent 
association  with  the  Graces  or  Seasons, — the  Charites 
or  Horai.  Thus  combined,  about  the  throne  of  Zeus 
or  the  coronal  of  Here,  the  Fates  appear  the  becoming 
exponents  of  all  phases  of  time  past,  present,  and 
future, — of  all  succession  and  causation,  as  the  Seasons 
are  of  all  expansion  and  the  visible  growth  and  de- 
velopment of  nature  in  space. 

The  Moirai,  as  daughters  of  Night  (frag.  ap.  Bergk, 
Poet.  Lyr.  p.  220),  are  appropriately  seated  in  the 
west;  and  it  was  from  the  founts  of  Ocean,  placed  by 
Homer  in  the  west  (II.  xiv.  301),  that,  according  to 
Pindar  (Hymn,  frag.),  they  conducted  Themis  to  the 
sacred  stair  of  Olympus  to  be  the  primeval  spouse  of 
Zeus,  and  mother  of  the  gold-crested,  prolific,  and 
truthful  Seasons. 

The  reclining  attitude  of  one,  the  nearest  to  the 
angle,  is  in  agreement  with  the  western  site  and  sha- 
dowy neighbourhood  of  the  car  of  Night;  and  in  the 
entire  and  absolute  abandonment  of  repose,  it  is  con- 
veyed to  us  that  her  rest  must  have  been  shared  a  few 
moments  previously  by  the  sister  on  whom  her  weight 
reclines,  but  who  is  now  aroused  in  eager  excitement. 
The  third  sister  is  seated  independently,  though  with 
feet  and  body  so  turned  towards  the  others  as  to  ex- 


OF    THE     PARTHENON- 


29 


press  association  and  sympathy,  which  are  carried  on 
b)  composition  of  the  hnes,  and  similarity  in  treatment 
and  texture  of  the  marvellous  draperies.  Simply  for 
convenience  of  description,  I  assign  to  them  the  names, 
in  order  from  centre  of  pediment  outwardsj,  of  Clotho, 
Lathesis,  and  Atropos.  The  sketch  of  Carrey,  dating 
1683,  shows  the  heads  of  Clotho  and  Atropos  still  pre- 
served, but  it  is  too  faulty  to  give  us  much  help  for  ex- 
pression. The  turned  head,  however,  and  the  gesture 
of  the  right  arm  and  suddenly  drawn  hack  foot  of  Clo- 
tho, show  an  attention  directed  to  the  great  event,  the 
great  crisis  of  the  manifested  godhead,  and  convey 
distinctly  to  me  the  expression  of  listening  to  a  sound, 
the  Pindaric  incident.  Though  her  left  arm  is  now 
brolien  away,  we  perceive  by  the  statue  that  her  hand 
rested  on  the  shoulder,  the  left  shoulder  of  Lachesis, 
whose  attention  she  thus  invites.  In  the  busy  action 
of  Lacbesis,  who  is  rousing  the  slumberous  Atropos, 
we  Bee  the  excitement  caused  by  summons  to  arouse 
another,  rather  than  awe  at  the  immediate  recognition 
of  the  all-important  occasion,  which  is  the  expression 
of  Clotho.  Lachesis  is  hastening  to  arouse  her  sister 
before  she  herself  has  more  than  sympathetic  apprecta- 
tiofl  of  the  news.^  But  still  her  raised  right  arm  shows 
that  she,  too,  is  an  astonished  listener;  and  I  do  not 
doubt  that  her  head  was  turned  to  her  right  in  harmony 
with  the  gesture,  however  slightly.  It  is  clear  that  her 
right  hand  must  have  held,  in  the  delicate  way  so  often 


'  The  combined  molive  reminda  me  of  the  awakened  Eumeitidrs 

ofi£scfaylus, — aroused  and  mutually  ELrousing'; — 
Eyctp  ,  tyetpf,  Kiii  m  ttjvv  ,  iytii  oi  Cf, 

roui/iEp ,  K.r.A. 


30  THB    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

seen  on  Greek  monuments,  the  fold  of  her  peplus.  The 
position  of  the  robe  spreading  over  her  back,  requires 
it  to  be  so  sustained ;  and,  on  the  shoulder,  folds  are 
interrupted  by  the  fracture. 

The  position  of  the  head  of  Atropos  is  very  &lsely 
represented  in  the  old  sketch  of  Carrey ;  we  may  see 
by  the  fracture  of  the  group  that  it  fell  back  on  the  left 
shoulder  of  Lachesis,  inclining  towards  the  tympanum, 
or  it  had  fallen  back  there  and  was  just  raised  and 
leaving  her  supporter,  as  indeed  her  lifted  r^ht  arm 
shows  the  start  of  a  sympathetic  thrill.  As  we  now 
gaze  at  the  mutilated  figure,  and  complete  the  lines  in 
imagination,  it  is  impossible  not  to  be  overcome  with 
the  sense  of  unrivalled  beauty,  dignity,  and  grace, 
which  must  have  originally  breathed  from  this  crea- 
tion,—so  sublime  in  conception,  so  inimitable  in  mas- 
tery of  execution,  surviving  damage,  and  immortal  in 
the  midst  of  destruction  and  decay. 

In  the  diversification  of  the  group,  therefore,  there 
is  a  triplicity  of  sisterhood  that  expresses  the  very  har- 
mony of  co-operance  that  pertains  to  their  functions 
in  mythology ;  and  at  the  same  time  there  is  a  grada- 
tion in  excitement,  relatively  to  the  incident  that  agi- 
tated and  occupied  the  grand  groups  of  the  central 
composition.  The  ends  of  the  universe  are  moved  at 
it,  but  that  we  are  at  the  end  of  the  universe  appears 
by  the  movement  here  floating  off  into  the  last  spent 
ripple.  Here  time  itself  is  refluent,  and  the  event 
which  suspends  all  Olympus  in  momentary  awe,  here 
spreads  by  a  propagated  impulse,  certain,  inevitable, 
all-pervading,  but  still  with  intervals,  and  graduating 
intervals,  between  its  beats. 

The  triad  of  divinities  which  at  the  south-east  angle 


OF    THE    PARTHENON. 


ai 


I 


of  tte  pediment  answer  to  the  Moirai,  or  Fates,  on  the 
Dorli)-east,  are,  I  can  entertain  no  shade  of  douht,  the 
Horai,  or  Seasons,  and  Dionysus,  Again,  simply  for 
coQveDience,  and  with  no  intention  to  insist  on  an 
identification,  I  shall  assign  the  names  of  the  pair  of 
Attic  Horai,  and  style  the  figure  next  to  Dionysus, 
Karpo,  and  her  companion,  Thallo — the  goddesses  of 
fmit  and  frond. 

On  this  side  we  hare  an  additional  figure  in  its 
place — the  messenger  Iris,  who  moves  towards  the  re- 
mote group  in  rapid  course,  and  with  gesture  of  ma- 
nifest and  acknowledged  announcement.  The  forms 
of  the  goddess  are  light  and  almost  girlish,  and  her 
course  through  the  air  is  expressed  by  the  plain  close- 
ness with  which  her  robe  hes  on  the  front  of  her  limbs 
in  the  direction  of  motion,  the  unfurled  curve  of  the 
flying  portions,  and  by  the  bellying  veil  which  is  now 
for  the  most  part  broken  away,  but  of  which  enough 
remains  to  evince  its  general  extent  and  management. 
Combining  with  her  action,  it  reminds  of  the  rapid 
progress  of  the  Athene  of  ^schylus  from  the  Troad 
to  Athens, — 

tlTtpTay  a.T(p  ()OLj5Sairo-(i  (toAwof  ctiyLSos,- — Eumenides,  400. 

This  bellying  scarf,  or  peplus,  would  alone  suffice 
to  identity  the  figure  as  Irisj  to  whom  such  a  symbol  of 
tlie  heavenly  bow  is  assigned  with  frequency  in  monu- 
incdts  throughout  the  range  of  all  classic  art.  Her 
aiiaistration  here  gives  emphatic  emphasis  to  the  re- 
moteaesa  of  this  secondary  scene,  while  at  the  same 
lime  she  combines  it  in  sympathy.  Her  head  was  un- 
<|pestionably  turned  back  towards  the  centre  of  the 
Miinent,  her  senses  riveted  in  aw^e  at  the  new-born 


32  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

goddess,  eren  while  in  spootaaeous  alacrity  she  is  in 
full  flight  to  announce  the  advent. 

There  is  an  appearance  that  the  sculptor,  in  model- 
ling the  long  folds  of  the  drapery  that  sweeps  down 
the  discovered  side  and  leg,  made  what  is  called  a 
miscalculation ;  the  groove  of  the  fold  cutting  into  the 
substance  that  would  he  occupied  by  the  limb.  All 
the  figures  of  this  extensive  composition  could  not,  of 
course,  be  wrought  out  by  the  hand  of  the  master ; 
this  is  evident  in  itself,  and  may  be  plainly  seen  by 
comparison  of  the  relative  excellence  of  the  execution 
of  the  Horai  and  the  Moirai ;  but  the  circumstance 
under  notice  is  not  to  be  interpreted  as  sign  of  inferi- 
ority or  oversight.  When  the  ridges  of  the  folds  were 
complete,  the  exact  depth  of  the  furrow  would  not  be 
discernible,  even  at  a  limited  distance,  while  the  gain 
in  depth  would  give  value  to  the  quality  of  the  shadow 
and  the  refinement  of  the  outlines.  The  same  liberty 
was  taken  advantage  of  in  the  execution  of  the  all- 
perfected  Moirai ;  they  have  suffered  much  from  the 
breaking  away  of  the  intermediate  ledges  of  drapery 
folds,  and  it  now  becomes  apparent  how  boldly  the 
sculptor  cut  into  the  substance  of  the  thigh  of  the 
Clotho,  in  confidence  that  while  the  truthful  effect  of 
the  drapery  was  enhanced,  no  eye  could  discern  the 
latent  trespass  upon  the  limits  of  the  quick. 

The  destruction  of  the  heads  and  necks  of  the  Horai, 
deprives  us  of  much  of  the  beauty  of  the  group,  but 
not  of  the  key  to  their  expression.  Karpo  rests  un- 
disturbed, and  with  no  hint  of  excitement,  with  one 
arm  on  the  shoulder  of  Thallo,  the  other  quietly  on 
her  own  lap,  and  her  position  is  so  far  retired  that 
she  seems  withdrawn  from  the  announcement  of  Iris. 


I 


s 
0 


OF    THE     PARTHENON; 

Thilo,  it  is  certain,  turned  lier  head  to  her  right,  to- 
ffflrds  her  sister,  and  by  this  gesture,  combined  with 
llie  extension  of  the  left  arm,  she  gains  the  air  of  call- 
iiig  !ier  obsen'ation  to  the  approach  of  the  heavenly 
courier,  nither  than  to  intuitive  recognitioc  of  the  glo- 
rious wonder.    The  divinities  of  the  seasons,  as  natural 
rather  than  moral  powers,  may  not  have  been,  inappro- 
priately placed  tikus  one  deg^ree  less  closely  in  intelli- 
gence with  the  manifestation  of  the  personified  majesty 
of  Zeus,  than  the  fateful  triad  of  the  north-east  angle. 
Indeed,  a  certain  predominanceof  dignity  appears  in  the 
very  heightened  elaboration  of  the  group  of  the  Moirai, 
'o  contrast  to  the  simplicity  of  the  tranquil  llorai. 

The  proportions  of  the  seated  llorai  are  very  pecu- 
liar, their  bodies  are  very  short,  and  in  fact  a  full  third 
of  the  abdomen — especially    in    the  case   of  Karpo, 
iticEoding  portions  just  above  and   below  the   waist, 
appears  omitted.     It  has  been  supposed  that  we  have 
Ijere  one  of  those  modifications  of  proportion  by  which 
■t  is  well  known  that. the  Greek  sculptors  knew  how 
to  secure   apparent  truth   by  deviation   from  actual, 
^specially  in  tlie  case  oi'  statues  placed  in  elevated 
J>06itions.     This  can  scarcely  be  the  true  explanation 
*"iere,  for  the  sitting  Fate  nearest  to  the  centre  of  the 
pediment,  a  very  parallel  case,  appears  to  be  allowed 
her  natural  proportions,  and  apart  from  experimental 
proof  it  would  appear  a  more  intelligible  carrection  for 
the  height  of  the  trunk  to  be  exaggerated  to  correct 
Verspective  or  to  counteract  the  encroachment  of  the 
knws  upon  the  upper  part  of  the  figure,  as  viewed 
itnmed lately  from  below. 

This  leads  me  to  the  conclusion  that  Phidias  found 
il  desirable  to    make  these  two  fig;ures  of   as   large 

VOL.  VII.  O 


4 


34  TH£   EASTERN    RUDIMENT 

general  proportions  as  possible,  notwithstanding  the 
restricted  space,  in  order  to  balance  the  majestic  Fates 
who  have  an  advantage  from  the  attitudes  assigned 
to  them  by  the  composition.  Harmony  with  the  ge- 
neral scale  of  grandeur  of  the  figures  urged  the  same 
necessity ;  in  consequence,  he  resorted  to  a  com- 
promise,  and  kept  parts  and  members  large  while  he 
abbreviated  those  which  were  less  expressive,  or  more 
obscure,  or  which,  whatever  the  chance  of  impunity, 
he  had  no  choice  but  to  reduce,  unless  he  sacrificed 
his  design  entirely.  The  licence  is  of  the  same  nature 
that  the  best  dramatist  takes  with  self-evideut  proba- 
bilities, and  takes  without  hesitation,  and  so  far  as 
worthy  audience  are  in  question,  without  rebuke,  when 
issue  is  joined  between  the  requirements  of  expression, 
which  is  all-important,  and  the  scruples  of  literal  exac- 
titude, which  is  not. 

The  contours  of  the  Horai  are  maidenly,  sisterly,  and 
there  is  no  difference  between  them  to  give  the  slight- 
est favour  to  the  interpreters  w)io  see  in  them  either 
Demeter  and  Kore,  or  any  other  mother  and  daughter. 
The  forms  of  the  Moirai  are  much  more  full,  and  the 
Horai  contrast  with  them  no  less  in  developments  of 
figure  than  in  draperies.  The  broader  surfaces  and 
more  united  sinkings  of  the  draperies  of  the  Horai, 
harmonize  admirably  with  the  nude  breadth  of  the 
forms  of  Dionysus,  and  on  the  other  side  agree  in  cha- 
racter with  the  draperies  of  Iris  as  distinctly  as  on  the 
opposite  end  of  the  pediment  is  the  case  as  between 
the  Moirai  and  Nike,  a  fragment  we  have  yet  to  advert 
to.  In  fact  it  becomes  an  important  question  by  what 
management  this  very  marked  opposition  was  blended 
gracefully  in  the  approach  to  the  central  group. 


OF  THE    PARTHENON.  35 

I  suspect  tKat  the  balance  was  adjusted  by  the  im- 
portant node  figure  of  Hephaestus  in  the  exact  central 
gronp  being  on  the  half  of  the  pediment  that  pertains 
to  the  Moirai,  and  the  fully  draped  Eilithyia  on  that  of 
the  Horai. 

Proceeding  from  this  point  of  view,  I  might  extend 
my  conjecture  so  far  as  to  place  the  seated  Zeus  on  the 
northern  side  of  the  composition ;  but  here,  the  sug- 
gested attitude  being  preserved,  he  would  be  leaning  on 
bis  right  hand  and  arm,  and  the  scarcely  dispensable 
sceptre  would  thus  be  thrown  into  his  left,  and  his 
general  position  would  become  inevitably  constrained. 
Moreover,  the  grandest  male  figure  associated  with 
Athene  would  be  on  the  same  side  relatively  to  the 
spectator,  as  the  Poseidon  of  the  western  front, — a 
most  undesirable  repetition.  I  therefore  conclude  for 
the  reverse  arrangement,  and  assume  that  the  com- 
pensation required  by  the  contrasted  extreme  groups, 
or  rather  the  central  arrangement  which  their  contrast 
compensated,  was  dependent  on  subsidiary  figures. 

Discussion  has  been  large  and  long,  respecting  the 
proper  title  to  be  assigned  to  the  recumbent  god  of  the 
south-east  angle  ;  Theseus  has  been  his  current  desig- 
nation, and  the  important  authority  of  Welcker  is  in 
favour  of  Cecrops  My  own  settled  conclusion  in 
favour  of  Dionysus,  has  been,  I  believe,  mainly  due  to 
the  consideration,  that  by  his  proximity  and  resem- 
blance of  expression  in  repose,  he  is  necessarily  asso- 
ciated with  the  seated  goddesses ;  that  these  are,  by 
presumptions  to  my  mind  irresistible,  the  Horai ;  and 
that  while  the  traditions  and  symbolism  of  Dionysus 
quite  favour  the  association,  the  attitude  and  type  of 
the  figure  are  equally  consistent  with  the  name.     Dio- 

n  2 


L 


I 


36  THE    EASTERN    PEDIHBNT 

nysus  was  not  alone  and  not  so  much,  the  god  of 
wine,  as  the  power  and  personification  of  humid  nature 
generally,  and  hence  of  all  the  germinaut  tendencies 
of  which  moisture  is  the  stimulagt^od  the  condition. 
Of  necessity  therefore  he  becomes  a  nature-god,  an 
elemental  power,  and  this  aspect  of  his  character  re- 
ceived the  most  elaborate  and  the  most  fanciful  and 
mystical  developments.  On  the  vases,  especially  the 
more  archaic  and  hieratic,  it  is  with  the  season-god- 
desses that  he  is  grouped  prevailingly  and  in  preference  ; 
here  it  is  true  he  usually  appears  sedate  and  bearded, 
even  among  the  frolic  of  his  followers ;  but  it  was  from 
the  very  conception  of  his  influence  expressed  in  these 
groups,  that  he  became  associated  with  Demeter  and 
Persephone,  divinities  of  the  harvest  and  the  year,  and 
appeared  in  multiform  personification,  the  solemn,  the 
sprightly,  even  the  infantine  participator  in  the  mys- 
teries,— nay,  grand  mystagogue  of  Eleusis. 

/  In  the  sculpture  he  reclines  very  exactly  in  the  same 
attitude  as  he  is  repre'^ented,  with  unequivocal  accom- 
paniments, on  the  frieze  of  the  choragic  monument 

,  of  Lysicrates.  The  same  attitude,  perhaps  still  more 
strikingly  repeated,  is  seen  on  coins  of  Crotona  in 
Italy,  but  there  the  figure  is  unquestionably  Herakles 
though  holding  out  the  Bacchic  cyathus  ;  Herakles  in 
the  guise  of  Dionysus,  a  not  unfrequent  interchange. 
The  position  of  Dionysus  here  at  the  angle  brings  up 
to  the  mind  his  so  frequent  retreat  in  numerous  re- 
presentations, screened  and  embowered  by  close  over- 
arching vines,  beneath  which  he  is  extended,  not  un- 
soberly  or  inelegantly  jocund.  The  rock  beneath  him 
is  covered  with  a  drapery,  and  from  below  that  emei^ 
indications  of  a  Uon-skin,  the  claw  and  portion  of  the 


OF    THE    PARTHENON. 


37 


-tbt 


-ski 


even 


I 


I  the  cyathus,  indifferently 
assigned  to  Dionysus  and  to  Herakles  (Tertull.  deCor. 
ttii. ;  Span.  Calliin-  li,  p.  373).  His  figure  is  of  ma- 
ture robustness,  but  cheek  and  cliin  are  smooth  ;  the 
head  and  hair,  though  the  general  form  is  preserved, 
are  seriously  weathered,  and  we  should  be  rash  to 
generalize  from  a  single  and  battered  example,  as  to 
ihe  uniformly  slight  execution  of  hair  by  Phidias  in 
his  statues — of  Phidias  to  whom  is  due  the  lion-crested 
ideal  of  Olympian  Zeus.  The  degree  in  which  the 
figlit  arm  of  the  figure  is  raised^  implies,  I  think,  ac- 
tio[i,and  not  rest,  and  I  confess  therefore  I  am  disposed 
to  reject  the  supposition  of  either  sceptre  or  thyrsus, 
and  adopt  a  wine-cup,— cyllx,  cyathuR,  as  you  please,  — 
''iiich  I  conceive  to  have  been  raised  with  the  motive 
of  libation  to  the  ascending  snn-gotl.  It  is  said  that 
a  hollow  on  the  inside  of  the  calf  of  the  left  log,  which 
Doff  is  filled  in  to  a  smooth  surface  with  plaster,  showed 
the  place  and  indent  of  a  rod,  the  smooth  stem  of  such 
arod  as  would  fit  sceptre,  spear,  or  thyrsus.  1  have  no 
opportunity  of  verifyiDgthe  point,  and  confess  to  mis- 
Irn&t. 

The  libation  at  the  commencement  of  a  journey  by 
speeding  companions,  is  of  most  frequent  recurrence 
on  llie  vases,  and  is  in  true  Homeric  harmony  with 
the  dismissal  of  Achilles  by  Peleus,  of  Telemachus  by 
Menelaus,  of  Fatroclus  by  Achilles  himself;  Pindar  also 
supplies  authorities  equally  to  the  point.  This  recog- 
nition of  the  sun-god  by  the  associate  of  the  seated 
goddesses,  is  to  me  a  further  confirmation  that  we  have 
liere  the  Horai  rather  than  the  Charites.  Assuredly 
tWeis  fair  occasion  lor  hesitation  and  argument.  The 
Allic  Charites,  Uke  the  Attic  Horaij  were  a  pair,  as 


38  THE    BA8TEBN    PEDIMENT 

contrasted  with  the  famed  triad  of  BGeotian  Orchome* 
nos.  Their  names  Auxo  and  Hegemone,  show  them  as 
readily  convertible  with  Horai,  as  the  titles  of  the  La- 
cedsemonian  Cbarites,  Kleta  and  Fhaenna, — the  closer 
and  the  admitter  of  light.  The  Charites  occur  on 
recorded  monuments  in  antithesis  to  the  Moirai  as  fre- 
quently as  the  Horai ;  and  in  literature  they  are  with 
greater  frequency,  and  even  more  marked  directness, 
associated  with  Dionysus,  nature-god  and  year-god.  At 
Olympia  as  well  as  at  Orchomenos  they  were  associated 
with  him  in  altar,  fane,  and  worship ;  and  hymns  at  Elis 
hailed  Dionysus  as  god  of  spring  and  attended  by  the 
Charites. 

Thus  their  functions  and  attributes  threaten  at  every 
moment  to  become  coincident  with  those  of  the  Horai, 
and  the  discussion  which  in  antiquity  delays  Pausanias 
to  insist  that  Karpo  is  a  Hora,  not  a  Charis,  seems 
after  all  but  about  a  name.  To  differences  of  name, 
however,  some  differences  of  association  will  always 
cling ;  and  it  is  evident  that  either  by  symbols  or  more 
probably  by  ideal  treatment  alone,  they  were  readily 
distinguishable ;  for  while  Phidias  placed  correlative 
groups  of  Moirai  and  Horai  above  the  head  of  his 
statue  of  Zeus  at  Megara,  on  the  upper  part  of  the 
throne  of  the  Olympian  god  at  Elis,  he  associated  the 
Horai  with  the  Charites,  and  so  also  did  Polycleitus  on 
the  stfphane  of  his  great  work,  the  chryselephantine 
Her^  of  Argos.  By  a  more  salient  contrast  the  Horai 
are  found  in  tbe  Hereum  at  Elis,  antithetical  to  the 
Hesperides,  nymphs  whose  western  seat  and  relation  to 
the  evening  render  them  correspondent  to  the  Moirai 
of  the  pediment  t\s  complementary  of  the  eastern  Horai. 
It  is  on  this  ground  that  I  cling  to  the  equally  Attic, 


OF    THE    PARTHENON. 


39 


» 


I 


aad  more  definitely  Homeric,  Hora.i.  To  goddeBses 
thus  named,  Homer  gives  seat  and  residence  at  tlie 
gsJeof  Olympus,  where  the  valves  at  their  signal  roll 
imk  spoQtaneously  to  give  egress  to  the  cliariot  of 
IJere,  and  where  tliey  are  prompt  also  to  receive  and 
ucharness  her  returning  steeds,  as  it  is  their  privilege 
lo  gather  or  roll  back  the  covering  of  the  sky.  So  the 
Atbenian  dithyramb  ol  Pindar  celebrates  tiiem  as  open- 
ing the  chamber  of  blooming  Spring,  and  heralding  the 
new  year  that  the  god  of  joyous  wine  and  fragrant  vege- 
tation leads  along ;  and  Simonides  also  in  a  hymn  cele- 
brates with  enthusiasm  the  Dionysiac  Horai  of  Athens. 
The  poem  of  Nonnus  abounds  in  allusions  to  the 
Horai  as  Dionysiades,  as  nurses  of  Dionysus  ;  but  the 
Buthority,  though  an  authority,  Is  late,  and  I  leave  the 
argument  as  it  stands. 

The  strong  governing  arms  of  the  sun-god,  remain 
stretched  out  towards  his  horses,  but  his  head  is  lost, 
and  I  do  not  care  to  speculate  wliether  the  Sun, 
"aU-knowing,  all-beholding,"  was  manifestly  affected 
liythe  birth  of  the  goddess,  in  accordance  with  the 
poetical  description.  A  representation  of  water,  as 
much  quaint  as  conventional,  occupies  the  flat  space 
l)etffeen  his  arms.  More  elegantly  conventional  waves 
cur]  above  his  shoulders,  and  rise  upon  his  horses* 
necks.  Originally  he  had  all  the  honours  of  the  four- 
tiorse  chariot,  for  Welcker  reports  from  a  memorandum 
made  at  Athens,  that  two  horses'  heads  on  this  side  still 
remain  in  the  tympanum.  They  are  battered,  doubtless, 
and  yet  it  would  be  satisfactory  to  have  casts  of  them, 
and  accurate  note  of  their  position.  The  same  remark 
applies  to  the  single  horse's  head  which,  on  the  same 
authority,  still  remains  al  the  opposite  angle.     It  thus 


40  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT. 

appears  that  Selene,  or  Night,  was  oaly  allowed  a  pair 
of  steeds,  and  this  is  in  agreement  with  a  principle  of 
subordination  which  Phidias  observed  when  on  the 
base  of  the  throne  of  Zeus  at  Olympia,  he  mounted 
her  upon  a  mule. 

I  have  to  congratulate  myself  on  having  been  able 
to  restore  to  its  place,  which  the  old  sketch  of  Jacques 
Carrey  shows  was  a  vacant  gap  so  long  ago  as  1 683, 
the  torso,  still  admirable  amidst  its  mutilation,  of  the 
goddess  Selene. 

Among  the  casts  already  referred  to  in  the  Elgin 
saloon,  of  fragments  from  the  pediment-sculptures 
that  still  remain  at  Athens,  is  a  trunk  of  a  female,  re- 
presented as  bending  forward  from  the  waist,  and  the 
outUne  of  the  back  below  the  waist  harmonizes  with 
the  front  incUnation,  while  the  set  of  the  shoulders  in- 
dicates that  the  arms  were  in  symmetrical  action.  The 
interpretation  of  this  action  is  easy,  by  comparison 
of  the  large  fragment  of  the  team-controlling  Ampbi- 
trite  of  the  western  pediment ;  it  is  the  set  pose  of  a 
charioteer,  and  particularly  of  a  charioteer  guiding  a 
descent.  The  same  motive  may  be  recognized  among 
the  car-guiding  figures  on  the  Panathenaic  frieze. 
Some  of  these  have  an  equivocal  female  appearance, 
and  their  light  drapery  is  confined  about  the  form  by 
bands  which  cross  upon  the  breast.  There  is  the  same 
appropriate  management  in  our  torso,  which,  besides 
the  string-like  cincture  round  the  waist,  has  othera 
that  retain  the  folds  above  from  disarrangement  by 
rapid  motion,  by  drawing  round  under  either  swelling 
breast,  and  crossing  from  side  to  shoulder.  The  state 
of  the  cast  is  evidence  that  the  marble  was  cut  off 
horizontally  just  above  the  hips,  and  every  point  is  in 


OF   THE    PARTHENON. 


41 


I 


\ 


I 


» 


harmony  with  the  supposition  that  this  is  indeed  the 
loDg-Iost  charioteer  of  the  horses  of  Night,  (30  April, 
IftSO.)  Convinced  that  the  harmony  of  the  compo- 
sition, thus  completed,  would  confirm  and  complete 
th«  evidence,  I  waited  impatiently  the  restitution  of 
the  group.  The  restitution  is,  to  a  certain  extentj 
now  made,  and  with  all  tlie  satisfactorlness  to  myself, 
and  those  whose  opinions  1  value^  that  I  could  have 
desired  and  hoped  for. 

1  can  scarcely  persuade  myself  that  the  goddess  of 
night  was  represented  as  utterly  unconscious  and  un- 
atlentive  to  the  great  cosmical  convulsion  at  the  deli- 
wry  of  Zeus ;  and  if  her  head  were  turned  ever  so 
slightly  in  intimation  of  its  eifect  upon  her,  the  eager 
action  of  Helios,  or  Hyperion,  would  at  once  he  defined 
with  the  same  reference  by  mere  communicated  gloss 
and  reflection. 

We  have  still  the  fragment  of  Nike  to  dispose  of. 
It  was  found  lying  upon  the  horizontal  cornice,  and 
from  its  proportions  it  appears  titled  to  be  the  figure 
adjacent  to  the  Fates,  and  thus  answering  to  the  Iris 
on  the  opposite  side.  The  title  of  Nike,  or  Victory,  is 
dearly  established  by  the  pairs  of  cavities  and  mortise- 
holes  in  the  back,  for  the  attachment  of  wings,  with 
wme  traces  which  seem  to  indicate  that  they  were  of 
iL)€tal.  The  skirt  of  the  drapery  behind  showg  also 
the  management  for  supporting  the  lower  ends  of  one 
or  both.  Above  the  waist  the  tunic,  which  is  open  on 
cither  side,  is  gathered  and  tied  between  the  wings. 

The  Beugnot  vase-painting  of  the  birth  of  Athene, 
exhibits  a  Nike  hastening  forward  to  the  centre  with 
a  wreath,  and  the  like  fi^giire,  with  wreath  or  taania,  \b 
ftpeated  on  paintings  of  the  parallel  subjects  of  births 


THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 


of  Erichthoniua  or  of  Dtonysug,  but  whether  for  behoof 
of  infant,  ])arent,  or  nurse,  is  not  always  self-evident. 

In  the  composition  of  the  rise  of  Pandora,  on  th 
base  of  the  great  chryselephantine  statue  of  Atheni 
within  the  temple,  a  Victory  was  introduced ;  VictorU^^ 
•pT/scipue  mirabili,  says  Pliny,  H.  N.  36,  44.  I  do  do~V 
doubt  that  she  bore  a  crown  for  the  newborn  parage 

On  the  base  of  the  throne  of  Olympian  Zeus, 
Elis,  Phidias  represented   Peitho  in  the  act  of  crow 
iDg  Aphrodite,  newly  born  from  the  sea-foam,  in  p 
sence  of  the  assembled  privy  council  of  the  sky. 

The  base  of  the  statue  of  Athene,  I  will  take  th. 
occasion  to  say,  could  have  been  little  more  than  a 
enriched  socle;  the  edges  of  her  sandal-soles  were  w 
in  sight,  for  a  battle  of  Centaurs  upon  them  contain 
groups  that  were  objects  of  common  admiralion.     L^^X 
tliis  be  my  protest  against  a  recent  argument,  or  rath- 
assaraption,  that  the  pedestal  was  ten  feet  in  heighza' 
by  a  scheme  of  restoration  as  fatal  to  the  effect  of  t~3je 
sculpture,  as  the  waggon-roof  for  the  naos,  which  it       's 
catculated  to  favour,  would  be  to  the  proportions  a^^"* 
consistency  of  the  architecture. 

1  think,  then,  that  the  Nike  of  the  pediment  mt 'S^ 

have  been  entrusted  with  a  metallic  teenia,  as  the  syi^^" 
bol  of  her  sacred  and  triumphant  office.  Just  in  l_r::ili* 
middle  of  the  left  thigh  there  remains  a  metaUic  pli__-«igi 
which  must  have  given  attachment  to  some  object  "' 
ornament;  its  position  in  the  midst  of  coutinuous  fo  ^'f'* 
shows  that  no  responsibility  of  costume  was  depend*^'"* 
on  it.  Is  it  possible  that  she  carried  not  a  crown,  ^V^xt 
a  long  and  streaming  gilded  fillet  oi  t^nia,  of  diai^^'i- 
sions  as  impoilant  as  we  see  in  the  hands  of  her  air:*'^ 
type  on  the  vase? 


.1 


OP   THE    PA&IU&NON. 


4a 


k 


I 


A  second  restonitioQ,  which  I  have  successfully  made 
Since  commencing  this  essay,  has  added  great  value 
aadilJu&lratioc  to  the  action  of  this  6gure ;  it  coa- 
si^tfi  in  ideotlfying  among  the  loose  fragments  of  the 
wilection,  one  of  the  right  thigh  and  knee  which  be- 
luttgs  to  it,  with  a  portion  of  the  drapery., 

The  restoratioa  has  complete  mechanical  eatabhsh- 
aeQt,  by  the  agreement  in  outline  of  the  adjacent 
fractures,  although  the  sharp  edges  on  either  side  have 
sustained  some  injury.  The  proportion  of  the  hmb 
agrees,  and  the  length  of  the  tunic  coiTe&ponds  with 
indications  on  the  torso,  and  the  composition  of  the 
iiiies  of  drapery  is  thus  conipleted,  and  with  ad- 
ninible  effect,  in  enhancing  the  rapid  motion  of  the 
goddess. 

la  the  grand  and  energetic  freedom  of  the  stride,  the 
short  tunic  leaves  the  legs  bare  above  the  knee.  From 
the  fineness  of  this  drapery,  and  the  closeness  with 
vLidi  it  adheres  to  the  forms,  the  figure  has  almost  the 
value  of  the  nude  in  giving  rehef  to  the  fully  draped 
gTDup  of  the  Fates.  This  restoration  has  transformed 
a  comparatively  un  interest  in  fc  torso  into  a  magnificent 
sUtue. 

Lastly,  there  is  theconfirmattonjf  such  were  wanted, 
of  a  circumstantial  pecuUarity  iu  the  treatment  of  the 
(inpery.  This  consists  in  what  I  take  to  be  the  ex- 
pTasion  rather  of  creases  than  of  very  fine  folds,  by 
fiaelines  or  scores  cut  upon  the  surface.  They  no  doubt 
imitated  an  effij'ct  in  some  particular  kind  of  drapery; 
1  bud  them  on  the  drapery  of  one  of  the  statues  of 
Nereids,  in  the  Xanthiau  room,  but  on  no  other  statue 
orft^ment  belonging  to  the  Parthenon.  One  of  these 
^red  lines,  continuous  from  the  torso  to  the  fragment 


THB    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 


of  the  thigbj  certifies,  if  properly  adjusted,  the  exact 
point  of  union. 

Thus  restored,  we  see  the  figure  leaping  forward  to 
the  right,  with  an  exulting  spring.  It  relieves  most 
effectually  and  beautifuHy  the  leaning  lines  of  Clotho, 
and  the  action  of  Nike  herself  ac(;|uires  the  greatest 
force  from  the  contrast  of  her  weight-supporting  knee, 
with  the  gracefully  projecting  but  relaxed  right  knees 
of  the  adjacent  Fates. 

We  may  decide  with  confidence,  from  the  bust,  that 
the  head  was  turned  to  the  left,  that  is,  towards  the 
Fates;  both  arms  were  raised,  and  while  the  right  woul<i 
be  extended  towards  the  centre,  it  is  probable  that  llie 
left  was  bent  from  the  elbow  in  the  same  direction,  at»<l 
I  conclude  that  either  hand  held  up  the  taenia,  whic:h 
the  motion  of  the  figure  to  the  right  indicated  as  de:S- 
lined  for  Zeus  or  Athene  in  the  centre. 

Skilful  treatment  would  of  course  provide  that  wh»  1* 
Nike  was  kept  away  from  the  central  porlioa  of  iSnB 
composition,  in  order  to  favour  the  precedence  flfl 
divinities  more  important,  still  none  of  the  internes* 
diate  figures  could  have,  in  the  slightest  degree,,  t  ^^ 
appearance  of  claimant  of  the  offered  honours.  Vft-C^ 
tory,  therefore,  on  this  side,  is  the  countervailing  figt^B-re 
of  Iris  on  the  other;  each  is  intermediate  between  t 
minal  and  central  group,  and  each,  though  by  c 
tfiisted  action,  marks  the  division,  and  yet  at  the  sa 
time  links  the  communication.  Iris  speeds  to  t 
angle,  while  her  eyes  still  revert  to  Olympus ;  Ni  ^i 
springs  towards  the  centre,  yet  as  she  does  so,  glanc^^ 
towards  the  group  of  Fates,  in  their  graduated  agita- 
tion. The  touch  of  sympathetic  links  is  continuous 
throughout.     The  attitude  of  Thallo  hails   and   wel- 


OF  THE    PARTHENON.  45 

comes  and  almost  anticipates,  the  announcement  of 
Ins,  eren  while  her  head  inclines  to  invite  the  atten- 
tion of  her  sister — her  sister  who  turns  to  listen  with 
tranquillity  yet  undisturbed.  By  his  very  position  and 
repose,  Dionysus  belongs  to  the  same  group  as  Karpo, 
as  he  is  greeting  with  gesture  or  libation  the  first 
beams  of  the  day-god. 

We  have  then  very  considerable,  we  may  almost 
say  now  complete  remains  of  the  terminal  groups  of 
the  eastern  pediment,  extending  at  each  side  as  far  as 
the  fifth  triglyph  of  the  frieze,  or  the  third  column  in- 
clasive.  Even  so  far  on  either  side  did  these  comple- 
mentary groups  advance ;  at  this  point,  in  either  case, 
they  were  divided  by  marked  caesura  from  the  grand 
central  group,  and  the  immediate  scene  of  the  labour 
and  triumph  of  the  god  parturient.  The  division  of 
this  central  scene  in  itself  was,  no  doubt,  into  two 
grand  groups,  on  either  side  of  the  independent  and 
conspicuous,  the  exulting  yet  awful  Athene. 

The  contrast  with  the  western  front,  by  which  en- 
hancement of  dignity  is  achieved,  is  most  noteworthy 
and  admirable. 

A  single  power  asserts  undisputed  pre-eminence, 
instead  of  contesting,  though  with  marked  superiority, 
the  divided  field,  The  spacious  intervals  that  on  the 
west  were  occupied  by  forms  of  horses  or  lower  ani- 
mals, were  no  doubt  free  here  for  the  human  form 
divinely  idealized,  of  scale  coequal  to  the  sister  power. 
We  are  here  in  an  assembly  not  of  gods  and  men,  but 
of  gods  and  goddesses  alone ;  and  for  these  it  was  as 
welcome  to  have  the  most  spacious  division  of  the 
pediment  at  command,  as  on  the  west  it  was  desirable 
to  occupy  it  with  horses,  in  order  to  break  and  blend 


46  THB    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

the  transition  to  the  smaller  proportions  of  the  Cecro- 
pidse.  On  the  west,  the  side  groups  not  immediately 
witnesses  of  or  participant  in  the  main  action,  spread 
inwards  fi*om  either  end  much  beyond  the  spaces  occu- 
pied by  the  third  columns  ;  but  on  the  east,  as  we 
have  seen,  the  correlative  groups,  which  are  of  fewer 
Bgures,  terminate  here  and  allow  magnificent  range 
and  scope  for  the  awe  and  admiration-stricken  assem- 
Uy  of  Olympians. 

Awe  and  admiration,  surprise  and  even  love,  no 
doubt  were  provided  with  exponents,  and  harmonized 
with  fit  expression.  That  all  hint  and  trace  is  lost  of 
the  particulars  and  principles  on  which  these  lateral 
groups  were  designed,  in  doubtless  the  richest  combi- 
nation, is  one  of  the  greatest  misfortunes  in  respect  of 
art,  that  the  human  race  has  sustained.  *  It  is  only  com* 
parable  to  what  the  world  would  have  sufi^ered  if  the 
last  book  of  the  Iliad  had  been  lost,  or  if  we  could 
allow  ourselves  to  believe  that  anything  so  grevious 
could  have  been  permitted,  as  for  a  tragedy  of  Shake- 
speare, ranging  in  excellence  with  Hamlet  and  Lear,  to 
have  perished  in  manuscript. 

They  who  have  the  courage  may  pursue  the  ana- 
lysis of  proprieties,  by  comparison  of  ancient  remains 
with  modern  symmetrical  compositions  of  numerous 
figures,  such  as  the  cartoon  of  Ananias,  or  the  Last 
Supper  of  Idonardo  da  Vinci ;  but  for  me,  I  have  said 
that  I  set  a  bound  to  my  conjectures,  and  by  this, 
though  after  somewhat  of  transgression  and  over-in- 
dulged resolution,  I  will  abide. 

What  more  remains  to  be  said?— what  more  is 
worth  saying?  Little  indeed,  and  we  have  already 
said  too  much,  if  we  are  reduced  to  consider  ourselves 


OF    THE    FikRTHBNON. 


47 


» 


as  addressing  an  age  that  perhaps  finds  its  account, 
and  at  least  finds  it  conscientious  and  comfortable,  to 
disparage  the  pure  and  natural  expression  by  the 
Greek,  of  his  awe  at  the  universe  and  the  spirit  of  its 
^working,  as  paganism,  and  to  abuse  his  idealized  per- 
sonifications of  its  un  fathom  able  energies,  as  idols. 

Sounds  like  these,  it  is  true,  float  on  the  wind  ;  but  a 
better  utterance  is  abroad,  and  may  be  heard  if  lis- 
tened for;  and  taste  and  trutli,  marked  out  for  death, 
are  fated  not  to  die  at  the  hands  of  factitious  pubHc 
opinion,  and  the  sophistications  and  servilities  of  those 
who  fabricate  and  those  who  are  eager  to  be  in  the  ■ 
Way  of  the  first  favours  of  fashion. 

"  My  soul,  turn  from  them ;  turn  we  to  survey," 
with  one  last  retrospective  glance,  the  spirit  of  the 
Composition  that  we  have  endeavoured  with  all  disad- 
vantage to  ajipreciate. 

I  have  argued  on  the  presumption  that  the  Phidian 
aspect  of  art  and  conception  of  mythology  are  Homeric. 
T^ey  are  so  conspicuously  in  this  respect  in  the  case 
oefore  us,  that  while  the  principal  incident  is  clothed 
P'by  the  poetic  sculptor  in  all  the  circumstance  of  loca- 
lized tradition,  special  worship,  and  characteristic  ac- 
»CretioQS  from  every  age  it  had  passed  through,  he  still. 
With  an  augur's  insight,  penetrated  to  the  primary  sym- 
bolism that  was  its  original  germ  of  interest  and  life. 
Xliose  who  know  most  and  know  beat  the  genius  of 
^Horner  relatively  to  his  materials,  will  recognize  this 
"process  as  Homeric,   and  by  this  it  is  that  Phidias 
I     unites  the  fabulous,  not  to  say  the  monstrous,  with 
B  the  sympathies  of  enlightened  humanity,  for  all  regions 
F    and  all  time. 
k       The  miraculous  birth  of  Athene  and  her  provident 


48  THE    EASTERN    PEDIMENT 

affection  for  Athens  and  Attica,  were  legends  recog- 
nized by  poet  and  sculptor  as  legends,  but  also  as 
symbolical  in  import ;  and  were  valued  for  the  vigorous 
truth  of  their  symbolism,  admired  for  their  capacities 
of  beauty. 

It  has  been  by  this  faculty  of  insight  that  in  all  great 
ages  of  art,  the  transmutation  has  been  effected  by 
genius,  of  the  decaying  rags  of  superstition  into  the 
glorified  vesture  of  transfigured  philosophy. 

The  result  could  scarcely  be  less  happy,  and  of  a 
truth  is  far  more  dignified,  than  to  stoop  in  cowering 
degradation  to  worship  the  letter  of  a  tradition  which 
as  a  letter  is  ever  a  falsity,  to  accept  figment  and  fable 
for  truth  without  a  veil,  and  to  ascribe  all  merit  and 
attach  all  hope  to  the  obstinate  blindness  and  implicit- 
ness of  such  acceptation. 

Wherever  veritable  Art  survives  to  vindicate  its 
prerogative  of  comment  and  illustration,  there  is  pro- 
mise of  return  to  the  simplicity,  enlightened  as  well  as 
pure,  of  which  the  ensample  happened  for  us  in  anti- 
quity. It  is  for  artistic  genius  to  predict,  to  prepare, 
and  ultimately  crown  the  triumph  ;  for  the  rest,  it  is  in 
pursuance  of  the  instincts  and  unconsciously  directed 
efforts  of  all  ages,  that  even  the  common  sense  and 
much  more  the  common  sympathies  of  mankind,  will 
tend  to  right  themselves,  and  will  correct  the  wildest 
dogmas  and  traditions  by  attaching  to  them  symbolical 
interpretations  perforce.  It  may  be  that  there  is  in- 
termediate logical  inconsequence ;  but  the  energy  of 
Sympathy  ever  insists  on  evoking  a  meaning  which  at 
least  has  a  truth  in  itself  and  of  its  own ;  and  not  with- 
out protest,  and  not  without  suspicion,  only  consents 
to  carry  about  still  the  load  of  discredited  or  repugnant 


OF   THB    PARTHENON.  49 

&ble,  under  condition  of  wresting  it  on  every  active 
occasion  to  be  the  vehicle  of  a  spirit  that  defies  and 
denounces  and  will  at  last  destroy,  an  oppressive  im- 
posture. 


I  bke  thifl  opportunity  of  mentioDuig  a  restoration  ol  the  frieze — 
Hbordinate,  yet  not  without  interest.  My  attention  was  drawn  by 
Mr.  BoDomi  to  a  female  head  in  relief  in  the  collection  of  Dr.  Lee  of 
HirtweU,  recognizable  by  scale,  treatment,  and  material— -Pentelie 
nuible, — as  pertaining  to  the  Panathenaic  frieze.  Oa  comparison  I 
fonnd  that  it  was  the  head  of  the  Hebe  in  the  group  of  divinities  at 
the  eut  float,  on  which  I  have  commented  in  a  previous  paper ;  it 
etme  at  the  angle  of  the  slab,  and  was  easily  broken  off  by  some  de- 
predabH*  of  early  date.  The  air  of  the  head  is  exquisite,  and  the 
Dutery  of  relief  is  most  worthy  of  the  hand  of  Phidias. 


>'0L.  VII. 


50 


II.— OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  NEWLY-DISCOVERED 
FRAGMENTS  OF  THE  STATISTICAL  TABLET  OF 
KABNAK. 

BY   SAMUEL    BIRCH. 

(ReadJuly  18th,  1860.) 

The  recent  excavations  of  M.  Mariette,  at  Thebes,  have 
thrown  bo  much  additional  light  upon  the  arrangement 
of  the  statistical  tablet  of  Kamak,  and  added  such  im- 
portant  additions  to  it,  that  I  am  induced  to  resume  my 
labours  upon  this  remarkable  inscription,  and  to  show, 
from  M.  Marietta's  sketch,  what  is  the  arrangement  of 
the  inscription  and  what  portions  are  rendered  more, 
complete  by  the  fragments  discovered  during  his  exca- 
vations. The  so-called  statistical  inscription  of  Kar- 
nak  consists  of  the  legends  inscribed  on  the  north 
and  south  of  a  small  temple  of  Thothmes  III.,  built  of 
yellow  sandstone,  in  the  Karnak  quarter  of  Thebes, 
and  which  seems  to  have  been  erected  for  the  express 
commemoration  of  his'  victories.  The  importance  of 
these  inscriptions  had,  early  in  the  history  of  E^ptian 
discovery,  attracted  attention,  and  the  first  publication 
of  a  portion  of  their  contents  is  due  to  Dr.  Young,  who 
edited  them  in  his  '  Hieroglyphicks  *  from  a  copy  made 
by  Sir  Gardner  Wilkinson.  Since  then  the  same  in- 
scription, and  a  more  complete  copy  of  the  renuunder. 


STATISTICAL   TABLET   OP    KA.RNAR. 


51 


has  been  published  in  the  great  work  of  M.  Lepsius. 
'fiieleastimportaiit,  according  to  M.  Mariette,'  ofthese 
inscriptions,  is  that  of  the  south,  or  the  right-side  of  the 
entrance ;  the  restoration  of  Sethos  U.  has  destroyed 
fiiore  than  half  of  this  text,  and  there  only  remains  the 
cioaing  thirty-four  lines  published  by  Lepsius,  Denk- 
laaler,  Abth.  Ill-  BI.  30,  6.     It  appears  from  an  exa- 
mination of  the  date  that  this  portion  contained,  that 
the  end  of  the  inscription  records  the  annals  of  the 
king  from  the  twenty-first  to  the  forty-second  year 
t>f  his  reign.     M,  Mariette.  indeed,  gives  the  twenty- 
second  or  twenty-third,  but  the  position  of  the  unit, 
JUst  below  the  centre  of  the  two  tens,  is  favourable  to 
*^he  idea   that  no  other  unit  could  symmetrically  be 
Present.      This  raises  the  raajority  of  the  king  and 
■lis  emancipation  from  the  tutelage  of  Hatasu  to  his 
t'Wenty-first  regnal  year,  five  years  after  the  tablet  of 
*he  Sarabout  El-Khadem.      It  is  clearly  the  close  of 
^he  whole  inscription,  and  forms  what  M.  Mariette 
Cialls  the  fourth  or  last  chapter  of  the  text.    The  other 
inscription,  that  of  the  north,  is  divided  into  three  por- 
tions ;  the  first  consists  of  the  recital  of  the  march  of  the 
Vcing,  and  the  speech  of  a  deity  to  the  monarch  ;^  the 
Second  an  inscription,  divided  into  two  sections  by  a 
gate,  which  separates  sixty-seven^  Unea  on  one  side  from 
forty-three'  on  the  other,  the  last  four  lines  of  which 
are  not  given  in  the  publication  of  Lepsius,  being  disco- 
"vered  subsequently,  containing  the  account  of  the  battle 

'  Rcvue  Arch6o3ogiqae,  QoliVelle  idrie,  Svo,  Juillet,  1850,  Paris, 
W  30-33,  pi.  Tvl 
'  Lepsiua,  DenVm.  iii.  31,  6;  Bircli,  Archeeologia,  ?cxxt.  p.  116. 
'U^ine,  Denkm.  iii.  Zl,  66. 
*'  UptioB, Denkm.  iii.  32  ;  Bircb.  ArchGeol.  I.e.  121. 

e2 


52  OBSERVATIONS   ON   THE 

of  Megiddo ;  and  a  third  division,  consisting  of  fifty* 
four  lines,  the  commencemeDt  only,  at  Paris,  published 
in  Lepsius,  Auswabl,  Taf.  xii.,  which  was  followed  by 
six  lines,  now  lost,  then  by  fourteen  other  lines  in  one 
fragment,  and  then  by  another  fragment  of  twenty  lines, 
both  of  which  are  given  in  the  '  Denkmiiler.'^  It  is 
this  closing  part  of  the  north  side  which  was  first  pub- 
lished, and  the  fragments  discovered  by  M.  Mariette 
consist  of  the  ends  of  thirty-five  lines  of  the  commence- 
ment. It  is  this  portion  which  I  propose  more  parti- 
cularly to  consider  on  the  present  occasion,  and  I  shall 
accordingly  retranslate  these  first  thirty-five  lines  with 
comments  on  the  new  words  and  phrases  of  importance 
which  occur  therein. 

There  is  no  addition  to  the  heading  of  the  inscrip- 
tion ;  it  still  reads,  "  His  majesty  ordered  that  the  vic- 
tories which  his  father  [Amen  Ra]  had  given  to  him 
should  he  placed  on  the  stone  wall  in  the  temple  which 

his  majesty  made in  her  name  [or  its  name], 

together  with  the  captives  brought  by  his  majesty  in 
it ;  it  was  made  like  [the  horizon  of  heaven]  **.  .  .  As 
I  find  no  trace  of  the  queen-regent  in  the  inscription,  it 
is  scarcely  possible  that  the  phrase  of  "  in  her  name  '* 
can  refer  to  the  regent.  The  compound  form  reads 
literally  ar-an-tu,  and  means  *  has  been  made,*  the 
affix  of  the  preterite  being  interposed  between  the 
verbal  root  and  the  termination  of  the  participle.  A 
similar  phrase,  am-en-tu,  with  other  variants,  will  be 
found  in  the  fifth  vertical  line.  The  version  of  the 
first  thirty-five  lines  with  the  recovered  portion  will 
read  thus : — 

"  [1]   In  the  twenty-ninth  year,  when  his  majesty  was  in 
'  Lepsias,  Deokm.  iii.  31,  a ;  Bl.  30  a. 


f 


STATISTICAL   TABLET    OF    KARNAK.  53 

attacking  the  hostile  lands  in  it,  in  the  fifth  of  his 

victorious  expeditions,  then  his  majesty  took  the  fort  of  Ua 
«  ....  his  majesty  received  the  applause  of  his  army>  ^ving 
^lory 

[2]  to  Amen  Ra  .  .  .  .  victory  to  . .  .his  son  j  they  were 
leautifol,  his  majesty  was  pleased  beyond  anything.  After 
'^at,  his  majesty  proceeded  to  the  place  of  offering,  ahd 
^ave  an  offering  to  Amen  as  the  light  of  t^e  horizon,  of 

<»xen,  calves,  and  geese the  sun,  the  lord  of  creation, 

-the  ever-living.    The  amount  of  the  captives  brought  from 
that  fort 

[3]  the  race  of  the  enemy  of  that  country,  1  chief  of  that 
fort,  329  men,  100  pounds  of  silver,  100  pounds  of  gold, 
lapis-lazuli,  copper,  vases  of  brass  and  iron ;  then  were 
filled  the  boats  ....  laden  with  all  good  things,  with  male 
and  female  slaves,  iron  and  lead,  emeralds, 

[4]  and  all  the  good  things.    After  that  his  majesty  went 

and  returned  to  Egypt in  triumph.    Then  his  majesty 

destroyed  all  the  com,  and  cut  up  the  good  portions  of  the 
fort  of  Arutatu.  Then  his  majesty  went  throughout  the  land 
of  Gaha,  and  destroyed  all  their  fruit-trees  fiiU  of  fruit,  there 
it  was  found 

[5]  that  their  wine  was  as  abundant  as  their  waters,  like- 
wise their  com  came  in  heaps  out  of  their  stores,  they  mul- 
tiplied it  for  supplies  for  the  troops,  overwhelming  them  with 
these  things.  The  amount  of  tribute  brought  to  his  majesty 
in  that  expedition,  was  slaves  male  and  female  51,  mares  32, 
10  silver  dishes  [or  hands],  470  jars  of  incense, 

[6]  palm  wine  and  honey,  6,428  jars  of  wine,  brass,  lead, 
lapis-lazuli,  and  felspar,  618  oxen,  3,636  goats,  of  bread 
leavened  and  unleavened  ....  of  com  and  flour  ....  and  all 
the  good  products  of  that  land.  The  army  was  supplied  there 
with  palm  wine 

[7]  daily,  as  if  it  were  festivals  in  Tameri  [Egypt].  In 
the  thirtieth  year,  when  his  majesty  was  in  the  land  of  the 
Ruten,  in  his  sixth  victorious  expedition ;  his  majesty  ap- 
proached the  fortress  of  Katesh,  attacking  it,  cutring  down 


54  OBSERVATIONS    ON    THE 

its  fruit-trees,  destroying  its  com,  coming  ....  the  land  of 
.  . .  tu.  Then  his  majesty  approached  the  land  of  Tarn,  and 
went  to  the  fortress  of  Aruttu  and  did  the  same  there.  The 
amount  of  tribute 

[8]  brought  to  the  spirits  of  his  majesty  in  that  year, 
then  there  were  brought  the  brothers  and  children,  to  be  in 
the  power  of  Egypt,  and  if  any  of  the  aforesud  chiefs  died, 
his  majesty  ordered  his  son  to  be  in  his  place,  the  number  of 
chiefs  brought  in  that  year  was  ....  slaves,  male  and  female 
161,  mares  188,  chariots 

[9]  inlaid  with  gold  and  silver,  painted  forty  [in  number]. 
In  the  year  31,  on  the  third  of  the  month  Pashons,  an  assem- 
blage was  made  of  the  captives  taken  by  his  majesty  in 
that  year,  those  brought  from  the  fortress  of  Anrutu,  on  the 

bank  of  the  Khama,  were  living  prisoners,  490, oi 

the  son  of  the  enemy  ....  [3]  superintendent  of  .... 
women  who  were  there  1 }  total,  494  persons,  26  mares,  13 
ohariots, 

[10]  all  adorned  with  war-trappings.  His  majesty  took 
that  fort  in  an  hour,  with  all  its  contents.  The  convoy  of 
captives  offered  by  the  chief  of  the  Ruten  who  came  to  do 
homage  [to  the  spirits]  of  bis  majesty  in  that  year  [amounted 
to]  ....  slaves  male  and  female  72, .  .  .  of  that  land;  761 
pounds  2  ounces  of  silver,  chariots  decorated  with  silver  19, 
[1 1]  with  all  their  decorated  trappings ;  bufialo  cattle  104, 
steers  173,  total  276;  goats  4,622,  iron  in  its  ore  40  bricks, 
lead  ....  gold  41,  breast-plates  painted  with  stnds,  and  all 
their  products, 

[12]  with  all  the  good  wood  of  that  land;  then  all  the 
countries  came  journeying  to  his  majesty,  supplying  bread 
leavened,  jars  of  palm  wine,  frankincense,  wine,  honey,  floor, 

all  its  numerous  ...  all  accounted  for  to  let  the 

army  of  his  majesty  know  without  doubt 

[IS]  Thpy  arc  placed  on  the  rolls  of  the  palace;  they  are 
not  given  in  this  inscripdon  in  order  to  avoid  a  multiplicity 
of  wiirds,  by  putting  them  down  in  this  place,  maldng  them 

writing  down  the  tribute  of  the  land  of  the  Ruten 

as  numerous  busliels 


I 


STATrSTICAL  TABtBT   OF    KARNAK. 


55 


[14]  of  com  and  barley,  frankincense,  palm  wine,  new 
"ine,  and  all  the  delicious  fruits  of  that  land.  They  have 
oe«ii  returned  into  the  treasury,  likewise  the  manufactures  of 

'J»e .  .  ,  .  are  reckoned 33  .  .  .  stonea,  with  emeralds, 

O-nd  all  the  precious  stones  of  that  land  with  numerous  stone 

■       [15]  of  fire,  with  all  the  good  .  .  .  .  >  of  that  land.  [When] 

his  majesty  approached  Egypt,  the  directors  of  the  colonies 

tcj*me  bearing  their  tribute  of  precious  stones,  and  jasper 
10  male  Negroes  for  servants,  cattle 
[16]  steers  113,  bulls  230,  total  343,  besides  the  boats 
den  with  ivory,  ebony,  panther-skins,  and  [all  the]  products 
of  that  land  .  . .  8  .  . .  [the  tribute  of  the]  Ua-ua  31  cows, 
ard  calves,  end  61  bulls,  total  92, 

[17]  besides  the  boats  laden  with  alt  the  good  things  of  the 
land  was  the  tribute  of  the  Ua-ua.  Also  in  the  thirty-third 
year  his  majesty  was  in  the  land  of  the  Ruteti,  approaching 

»- that  well  his  majesty  set  up  a  tablet  to  his  father 
[18]   the  king,  the  Sun,  greatest  object  of  creation  [Thoth- 
■Hffl  I.]  ;  then  his  majesty  sailed  along,  taking  the  forts  and 
Jaarrowing  the  land  of  the  enemy  of  the  vile  Naharaina  in 
•  ........  he  ... .  the  river,  led  behind  them,  no  one  looked 

for  was  seen] 

[19]  behind  him;  he  was  alone;  for  they  came  with  a 
_Sj]ritig  like  lions  in  the  re-gion  of  goats ;  then  the  horses 

^L his  whole  army,  having  the  chiefs 

[20]  and  their  women  30,  men  taken  prisoners  80,  slave$f 

f\t\e  and  female,  with  children,  GOG,  surrendered,  women  .  ■  ■ 
.  .  their  corn.     His  majesty  approached  the  town  of 
[1It]  Ninii  in  bis  course ;  when  his  majesty  came  he  set  up 
is.  tablet  in  Naharaina  {Mesopotamia}  to  enlarge  the  fron- 
tiers of  Egypt the  tribute  brought  to  his  majesty 

■*|lhe  chiefs  of  that  land 

[22]  513  slaves,  male  and  female,  260  mares,  45  pounds 
^  ounces  of  gold,  silver  vases  of  the  workmanship  of  the 
TWi»i [chariots]  with  all  their  trappings,  bulls, 

f[53]  calves,  buffaloes  29,  bulls  64,  goats  5,323,  frankin- 
wnie  R2H  jars,  palm  ■nine  of  ..........  all  the  delicious 

proilucU  of  that  laud,  and  numerous  fruits; 


56  OBSERVATIONS   ON    THE 

[24]  then  were  the  cities,  supplying  things  as  they  were 
compelled  by  their  agreement  of  yearly  contributions,  with 
the  manufactures  of  the  Remenen,  according  to  thdr  rate  oi 

annual  tribute  with  the  chiefs  of  the  Bemenn, 

2  eagles  [?],  4  unknown  birds 

[25]  of  that  land.  Then  there  was  a  . . . .  of  things 
brought  by  the  chief  of  Saenkar,  4  pounds  of  real  lapis-lazuli, 
and  24  pounds  of  artificial,  and  lapis-lazuli  of  Babylon  .... 

pounds, of  true  lapis,  and  the  head  of  a  ram  of  true 

lapis-lazuli, 

[26]  15  ounces,  and  vases  ....  brought  from  the  great 
Khita  in  that  year,  8  rings  of  siWer,  making  301  pounds, 

of  white  precious  stone,  one  great  stone,  and wood 

to  Egypt  on  his  passage  from 

[27]  Naharaina  to  enlarge  the  frontiers  of  Egypt.  Sledges 
of  stone  were  brought  from  the  land  of  Punt  in  that  year, 
lustrous  gems  1,685  carats  [?]  .  .  [pounds]  of  gold  155. 
pounds,  2  ounces,  slaves,  male  and  female,  134,  cattle 

[28]  and  calves,  114  bulls,  [305]  total  419,  besides  boats 
laden  with  ivory,  ebony,  panther-skins,  and  all  t^e  good  things 

of  [that]  land sheiks  3,  males  1 2,  total  20,  cows  and 

calves  9, 

[29]  bulls  60,  total  104,  besides  the  boats  with  all  the 
good  products  of  that  land,  measured  on  the  spot  also.     In 

the  thirty-fourth  year  then  his  majesty  was  tn  Gahai 

his  going,  a  welcome  to  his  majesty  throughout  on  bis  birth- 
day.   The  number  of 

[30]  fortresses  captured  in  that  year  2  fortresses,  surren- 
dered on  the  confines  of  Anaukasa,  total  3,  the  captives 

brought  from 90  captured,  surrendered  with  their 

women  ,  , 

[31]  and  children 40  mares,  chariots  plated  with 

silver  and  gold,  15  gold  vases  with  their  covers  50  pounds  8 
ounces,  gold  vases  of  that  land  with  ^eir  covers  153,  iron 
50  small  | .  .  .70  asses,  much  gaka  wood, 

[32]  black  wo«d,  sont  wood,  a  breast  ? . . .  .  full  with  the 
lintels  of  a  door,  plated  with  brass  inlaid  with  stones  9,  with 


*  STATISTICAL  TABLET   OF   KARNAK.  57 

#       all  the  good  wood  of  that  land.    The  chiefs  of  the  Rutea 
¥        hjtmght  in  that  year  ....  mares^  chariots  plated  with  gold 
and  silver  and  plated  34,  slaves,  male  and  female,  512,  gold 
S  5  pounds  8  ounces,  polished  silver  vases 

[33]  of  the  workmanship  of  that  land  . .  .  [pounds]  6 
oiinces  ....  pounds  of  silver  ....  stone,  and  precious  stones 
-    ...  vases,  iron  in  ore  80  hricks,  lead  1 1  hricks,  100  pounds 

c>f  paint,  stones,  felspar,  and  emeralds great  quantity 

c»f  wood,  numerous  iron  vases,  frankincense  390  jars  .... 

[34]  delicious  palm  wine,  of  green  dates  2,080,  jars  of  wine 
*a»08,  a  gaka-wood  chariot,  with  acacia  wheels  ?,  all  the  good 
'^■wood  of  that  country.  Then  all  the  tributary  lands  of  bis 
*:*iajesty  were  supplying  all  good  things  for  his  majesty  to 
'^c^eceive  .  .  .  boats  laden  with  their  beams  . .  and  the  .... 

[35]  great  logs  for  his  majesty's  ....  The  chiefo  of  the 

~^^  brought  in  that  year  108  bricks  of  iron,  2,040  pounds  of 

^^itcb,  6  bricks  of  lead,  1,200  ounces  of  lead,  110  pounds  of 

^^pis-lasuli,  1  tusk  of  ivory,  2  chairs,  sheiks  .  . .  ,  40  .  .  .  the 

daughter  of  the  chief  of  Axma  . .  .  ." 

This  closes  the  fragmentary  portions  recovered  by 
H.  Mariette,  which  present  great  importance  for  the 
iistorical  events  of  the  epoch.     The  fifth  campaign  of 
the  twenty-ninth  year  opens  with  Thothmes  being  in  a 
northern  country,  where  he  takes  a  fort  beginning  with 
the  name  of  Ua.  As  none  of  Kushite  or  southern  people* 
are  mentioned  as  possessing  forts,  this  name  must  be 
restored  from  a  comparison  with  other  lists,  such  as  the 
names  Uahat,  Uarki  of  Sheshank  I.'  This  was  probably 
one  of  the  forts  of  the  Ruten,  victorious  upon  this  oc- 
casion :  the  kings  make  an  offering  to  the  god  Amen 
Ba  at  the  khehi  (1.  2),  a  place  which  received  stores 

'  Oa  the  statue  of  Poeri,  prince  of  jEthiopia,  Britieh  Musenm, 
EgyptisD  Gallery,  No.  70,  the  taska  en  Ramese»,  on*'  fort  RamseB," 
m  Kuth,  ifl  mentioDed. 

'  Bragsch,  Geographie,  taf.  xxiv.- a,  13,  133. 


&S  OBSBBTATItiNS   ON   THB 

of  viands,  or  was  otherwise  the  epyaar^puni,  the  prison 
or  workshop,  of  captives  and  slaves,  as  in  an  inscrip- 

Uon  at  Kamak.  W^^Jt*:j.T;^^Z:C« 
Em  aa  er  Gemi  er  meh  heb  en  tef  Amen  Ra,  "  with  living 
slaves  for  Gem,  to  fill  the  workshop  of  his  father  Amen 
Ra ;"  here,  however,  it  is  mentioned  as  the  store-room 
of  the  offerings  or  temple  in  a  foreign  land.  The  king 
from  hence  appears  to  have  been  op  the  return  to 
Egypt,  and  attacked  the  fort  of  Arutatu :  this  place, 
wluch  I  had  formerly  thought  was  Arvad,  or  AraduB, 
appears  to  be  close  to  the  land  of  Gahai,  in  which  I 
am  disposed  to  recognize  the  celebrated  Gazse,  famous 
for  its  toreutic  and  metallic  work,  and  used  at  a  later 
period  for  valuable  furniture.  The  name  Gatatu,  which 
M.  Brugsch  reads  Gaza,  appears  to  me,  from  its  final 
ending,  to  be  rather  the  celebrated  Gath  of  the  PhiliS' 
tines,  while  he  places  the  Gahai  north  of  Berytus.  In 
this  same  line  occurs  the  word  asmar,  |p^|,*,,  which 

I  have  hitherto  translated  'smaris;'  the  same  word,  as 
SMER,  occurs  at  a  later  time,  and  the  substance  came 
from  the  Kenous  "as  the  smar  of  Kenus,  for  all  the 
work  in  it."^  The  march  of  the  monarch  was  marked 
by  the  usual  devastation  of  vineyards  and  cornfields. 
The  phrase  here  is  *«iit|  men,  which  seems  to 
mean  gardens  or  orchards ;  and  they  are  described  as 
full  of  ^^ta^,  hert,  apparently  fruit, — not  flowers, — 
and  to  be  distinguished  from  ^  ^,  tikar,  apparently 
from  this  passage  clusters  or  masses  of  fruit,  the  Cop- 
ticTTTA.^r'  (1-  4).  In  the  description  of  the  land  in 
1.  5,  the  well-known  form  for  excellence  is  used  instead 
of  that  of  earn  in  the  present  copy,  and  at  the  end  of 

*  BrugBch,  Geograpbie.  xiii.  2  e. 


STATiariCAt  TABLBT  Of  KABMAK.  5ft 

^  he  opcoiv  the  fonotila  kar-au,  Sp'^.'  'there,' 
vhu^  or  its  homophones,  often  close  sentences.    Him 
had  oi  Gaha  is  indeed  described  in  gfbwing' odours, 
as  iiterally  flowing  with  wine  and  piled  with  com,  and 
loaUs  the  Kblical  descriptifms  of  the  land  of  Canaan. 
&sfaiindant  were  the  supplies  that  the  army  was  daUjp 
nfreshed,  or  literally  drank,"  with  bakut  or  palm  wine, 
uifithad  heen  a  round  of  perpetual  festirals  in  Egypt 
itself;  an  expression  which  shows  that  rations  of  tlu> 
vine  were  issued  to  the  troops  on  the  oocauon  of  ias^ 
tirals. 

If  (Aher  evidence  were  .required  of  the  pontion  oi 
Otiud,  it  would  be  afforded  by  the  papyrus  of  Ramesea 
m.,  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  Harris,  of  Alexandria. 
Ttim  magnificent  roll,  which  contains  an  account  of 
the  ridies  and  possessions  of  Rameses  III.,  has,  at  the 
eommencement  of  the  ninth  page,  one  of  the  speeches 
of  the  God,  or  King :  "  I  have  built  thee,"  it  says,  *'  a 
sacred  house  in  the  land  of  Gahai,  like  the  horizon  of 
Heaven  on  high,  the  house  of  Rameses,  the  ruler  of 
Annu  [Hermonthis]  in  the  land  of  Pakanana,  in  the 
quarter  of  thy  name.     Thy  great  image  is  produced 
within  it,  the  Ammon  of  Rameses,  the  ruler  of  An ; 
the  lands  of  the  RuteD  come  to  it,  bringing  their  offer- 
ings as  to  its  God;  the  whole  earth  comes  to  thee, 
brining  their  products  for  tribute  in  procession  to 
Gemi,  thy  holy  city."     In  the  campaign  of  Rameses 
II.  they  are  described  as  south  of  Katesh. 
*  Upuns,  Todt.  xlv.  124,  4. 
k  "  •^'^'  teUut,  IB  JiteraUy  '  drank,'  e^J^.     '^^  '^^^  phrase 

■      ocean  m  the  Ibrim  tablet  of  Seti  I.,  speaking  of  the  refreehment  of 
B      tkt  troops.      For  forms  of  tekh,  '  weight.'  see  ChampoUion,  Not. 
^l      ^.  585  ;  Lepsios,  Denkm.  W.  54  b.  73  d,  in  Pap.  Salt.  1 1 8.  Brit. 
I      ^u.  loco  Lepsias,  Todt.  1 25,  24 ;  it  fau  a  block  of  stone  after  it. 


60  OBSERVATIONS    ON    THB 

In  this  text  the  land  of  Gahai  is  placed  antithetically 
to  the  land  of  Pa-kanana,  or  the  land  of  Canaan,  which 
shows  that  it  lay  in  that  direction.  It  is  to  this  place 
that  the  land  of  Ruten  come  as  tributaries,  showing 
that  this  last-named  country  also  lay  in  the  same  direc- 
tion ;  while  their  position  as  north  of  the  Great  Sea, 
or  Mediterranean,  and  embracing  the  district  of  £r- 
menen,  or  the  supposed  Hermon  or  Libanus,  brings 
them  closer  to  Egypt  than  the  elephant  and  the  yellow 
bear  which  they  offer  seems  to  justify.  The  question 
of  the  geographical  position  of  these  races  therefore 
requires  reconstruction.  The  name  of  Remenea  or 
Ermenn  is  equally  capable  of  being  philologically 
read  as  Armenia, — a  name  certainly  as  old  as  Hero- 
dotus, — as  M.  Brugsch"  proposes,  and  the  Rutea 
would  then  correspond  with  the  Regines  of  Josephus, 
the  descendants  of  Ashenaz,  whose  position  has  not 
been  determined.  In  the  printed  extract  from  Mr. 
Harris's  papyrus  I  have  used  the  word  shta,  commonly 
translated  'secret,'  'mystery,'  as  sacred,  it  being  evi- 
dent that  the  king  could  not  have  built  a  '  secret '  place. 
The  razzia  of  Thothmes  was  continued  in  the  follow- 
ing year  in  the  land  of  Katesh ;  but  this  great  fortress 
did  not  succumb  till  the  reign  of  Rameses  II.  In 
the  same  year  the  king  approached  the  land  of  Taru, 
l'V^^^,^^»  or  TyruB,  and  went  to  the  fortr^s  of 
(1.  7)  Aruttu,  or  Arvad,  where  he  destroyed  the  country 
in  the  same  manner.  Now  this  name  of  Tyrus  has  hi- 
therto only  been  discovered  in  the  Anastasi  Papyrus/* 
and  in  the  list  of  Rameses  III.,  at  Medenat  Haboo: 

i>  Geographie,  ii.  a.  38. 

1'  See  my '  Aanals  of  Thothmes,'  Trans.  Roy.  Soe.  Ut.  ii.  p.  354 ; 
«nd  Brugscb,  *  Geographic,'  ii.  s.  42.  and  following. 


STATISTICAL    TABLET    OP    KARNAK. 


61 


tere  it  is  joined  with  Arutu,  or  Aradu&.    This  fact  in- 
volres  the  historical  and  chronological  question  of  the 
date  of  the  foundation  of  Tyre,  which  must  have  an 
earlier  date  assigned  to  it  than  that  of  1'282,  and  re- 
stored, if  not  to  the  date  of  Herodotus/'  of  2750  b.c, 
at  least  to  1500  b.c.  ;  in  fact  there  is  every  reason  to 
betieve  that  the  city  of  Tyre  was  the  oldest,  according 
to  the  assertion  of  the  Phoetiicians  themselves,'*  of  the 
Phcenician  Pentapolis,  and  preceded  the  foundation  of 
Sidon,  which  is  not   mentioned   till   the  nineteenth 
Egyptian  dynasty,  while  in  the  present  annals  it  occurs 
with  the  city  of  Aradus.     Tyre  appears  indeed  as  a 
fiourishlng  state  in  the  days  of  Joshua,'^  immediately 
after  the  Exodus ;  but  Sidon,  not  Tyre,  is  the  great 
citjr  of  Homer'*  and  the  early  Greek  traditions.     The 
Suantity  of  spoil  brought  from  this  district,  and  the 
Postages  required  by  Egypt,  were  considerable,  and  give 
3  high  idea  of  the  early  civilization  and  commerce  of 
'''yre  in  slaves,  horses,  and  chariots,     M.  de  Roug^ 
has  indeed  read  this  name  Tamaru,  instead  of  Taru,  and 
supposed  the  place  to  be  the  Tsamari  of  Genesis  and 
the  Siniyra  of  Strabo;  but  the  identi:fication  depends 
OQ  the  supposition  that  the  hand  holding  an  offering 
reads  ma,  instead  oi'  ta ;  or  rather,  that  it  is  not  the 
hand  holding  the  curved  stick  wliich  occurs  as  deter- 
minative of  ta.     In  the  thirty-first  year  an  assemblage 
of  the  captives  taken  from  the  Anruta,  a  fortress  situ- 
ated on  a  lake  or  river,  to  which  various  names  have 
beea  given.      The  copy  of  Lepsius  gives  ,^>ijt<* 

^  Brng«ch,  Geographic,  ii.  43,  44. 

*' Strabo.  ivi.  756.  "  rix.  29. 

'*  Udy».  liii.  938,    Cf,  Mr.  Dyer's  article,  *  Pliosnicia.'  Diet.  Gr. 

K«(!Rom.  Geograpby,  ii.  p.  G08. 


62  OBSERVATIONS   ON    THE 

■ 

which  I  originally  read  Meraa,  and  M.  Bru^h  baf 
translated  by  Nasruna,'^  in  M.  Deveria's  recent  copy 
of  the  same  word,  taken  from  the  portion  in  the  Bi- 

bUoth^qne  Imp^riale,  gives  ^i'^'*  apparently  for 
Khema.  The  name  of  Anaruta  has  been  compared 
with  the  Anaharat  of  Joshua,^^  but  there  appears  no 
great  reason  for  this  assignment.  The  fragments 
found  by  M.  Mariette  enable  us  to  complete  the 
amount  of  the  spoil  of  this  fortress,  which  fell  in  an 
hour  into  the  king's  hands.  Among  the  prisonen  is 
mentioned  (1.  9)  a  superintendent,  apparently  of  womea, 
^^  J;  but  owing  to  the  mutilation  of  the  monn- 
ment  in  this  place,  it  is  not  possible  to  decide  wii>t 
was  his  office, — ^perhaps  one  of  the  eunuchs  of  the 
harem ;  he  is  mentioned  after  the  tutors  or  nurses  of 
the  n^al  children ;  but  this  title  indeed  has  some  si- 
milarity with  the  name  of  the  Heru-Sha,  a  people  men- 
tioned at  this  and  the  Ptolemaic  epoch  ;  490  persons. 
26  horses,  and  13  chariots  were  taken  in  this  fort.  Id 
the  same  year,  the  fragments  state  that  the  Ruten  sent 
a  large  tribute  of  761  lbs.  2  oz.  of  silver,  19  chanots. 
14  buffaloes,  172  calves,  4,622  goats,  40  bricks  of 
iron  ore,  some  quantity  of  lead,  41  .  .  lbs  of  gold,  and 
a  contribution  of  wood.    Among  the  objects  ofiered  ar< 

31  iU^i^;,  shaku, — ^perhaps  breastplates  pMOtW 
or  adorned  with  nn>\  t ,  sestu,  studs  or  points  of  iroo 
probably  the  Hebrew  T^,  tsits.  In  this  line  is  tb 
word  ^  j,  applied  to  the  measure  or  quantity  of  core 
The  cord  occurs  in  the  word  j^^,'"  as,  as  if  use 

*'  Hiatoire  d'Egypte,  4to,  Leipzig,  p.  101. 

'^  Bragech,  Geographic,  ii.  p.  42. 

"  LepeiuB,  Todt.  xxi.  52,  2;  xxzix.  108,  8;  Ixzi.  149.  16. 


STATISTICAL   TABLET   OP    KARNAK.  63 

for  that  syllable ;  but  its  appearance  in  the  initial  of  the 
word  SBsi,^  or  sbsr,"  arrows,  points  to  a  probable  value 
of  8,  although  the  syllabic  value  of  as  would  suit  in  the 
word  ASFU,  jasper."    This  value  of  s  appears  better 
than  the  hitherto  supposed  k,  from  it-s  interchange 
with  the  syllable  ka  in  the  name  of  kabti,  Coptos. 
The  first  part  of  the  group  also  occurs  in  the  often- 
repeated  word  HBBS-BN-MA,  Garments  of  Truth."   The 
word  HBSB  is  also  used  for  measure.     In  the  inscrip- 
tions of  the  nineteenth  dynasty  relative  to  the  Nile 
rising,  the  same  word  occurs  in  the  sentence  hru  pen 
m  Icha  aeak  Hdpi  au  heah  ari  her  sne  neter  het  pen  Amen 
ro  ntten  netertt,  "  On  the  day  of  leaving  the  register  of 
the  Nile,  the  measures  of  com  were  deposited  in  the 
granary,  a  divine  contribution  to  Amen-Ra,  King  of 
the  Gods.*'**    The  Ritual  Belmore,  Brit.  Mus.,  gives 
?^i=  It  »»  the  place  (Lepsius,  Todt.  162.   10). 
The  phrase  at  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  line  indeed 
presents  great  difficulties  ;  the  logical  sequence  of  the 
phrase,  taken  in  connection  with  the  registration  on 
the  royal  patent  roll,  is  'without  mistake '  or  '  doubt;' 
^l^fl^P'^,  men  maums.  A  similar  phrase  occurs 
on  a  tablet  at  Samneh,  dated  in  the  reign  of  Osertesen 
III.  which  says  of  the  negroes  au  maa  enset  kherfmen 
maums,  "  they  saw  his  majesty  (the  king)  without  mis- 

timilar  phonetic  groap,  on  the  D'Orbiney  papyrus,  xvi.  6,  is  used  in 
the  sense  of  '  sacrifice,'  According  to  M,  de  Roug6  there  is  also  as, 
'to  go,'  or  'depart.'     Sbarpe,  Eg.  Inscr.  58. 

"  Leps.  Todt.  liv.  131,  2. 

"  Champollion,  Not.  Descr.  170;  Egypt.  Gal.  Brit.  Mus.  32. 
Coffin  of  the  Queen  of  Amasis. 

^  Champollion,  Gr.  Eg.  100. 

^  Lepsius,  Todt.  lii.  129,  6. 

«  Cf.  Lepsius,  Denkm.  Abth.  III.  Bl.  200  d,  10,  207  d,  218  d. 


OBSERVATIONS   ON  THB 


take,"  or  doubt  (Lepsius,  Deokm.  ii.  PI.  136.  h.j    The 
pr^cis-v>'nttT  of  the  inscription  must  have  had  some  such 
phrase  in  his  mind  ;  for  the  satisfaction  of  the  army  a 
list  had  been  kept  of  the  tribute  given.    As  the  king 
marched  back  to  Egypt,  pearls  or  other  stones  were  of- 
fered by  the  heralds  or  commissioners  of  the  Gan-(Jjui^, 
orm^ioersof  the  king  in  the  peninsula  of  Sinai;  but  froTH 
this  time  the  inscription  becomes  more  fragmentarr, 
andean  only  be  partially  restored.    In  the  thirty -secoxad 
year  tribute  appears  to  have  been  sent  to  the  king  froia 
Kush,  or  ^Ethiopia,  consisting  of  10  Negroes,  lISco'ws 
and  calves,  230  bulls,  ivory,  ebony,  panther-skins ;  tlie 
Ua-ua,  another  v^thiopian  people,  contributing  a.l9o 
31  cows  and  calves,  and  61  bulls  or  buffaloes.    In  •^he 
thirty-third  yearthe  king  entered  the  land  of  theRut,*Pi 
and  on  this  occasion  approached  a  TJ*\a^,  utbti,     or 
*  ditch,'  (!.  17)  which  had  been  formerly  excavated      by 
his  father  Thothmes  I.,  as  is  shown  by  the  demonsC  ^^ 
tive  pronoun    *  ,  pen,  attached  to  it.     This  word^    ^^ 
the  sense  of  ditch  or  well,  is  distinct  from  the  wo  ^^* 
T  jv.  if  JSK;  ^'*  fe^wim/t,  a  well,. 


as 


or 


^Z^cB^/**  shot."^  a  well  or  ditch.     The  word  utb, 
uhl,  occurs  in  the  sixth  chapter  of  the  Ritual,  and  ini 
merable  variants  of  the  word  occur  on  the  numerc::^^ 
sepulchral  figures,  where  it  is  spoken  of  "all  that:::^ 
done  there  [in  the  Hades]  to  dig  the  fields  to  water," 
"  draw  water  for  the  ditches."    Here  it  occurs  as  a  sl::^^ 
stantive  masculine.     From  hence  the  king  contini 
tiis  march  into  the  Nabaraina,  or  iMesopotamia.     T^i"® 
army  continued  its  career  unchecked,  like  a  lion  icm  ^, 

9*  Prisae,  Mon.  xxU      ^  De  Rouge,  N.  Joum.  As.  1858.  p.  52-''| 
^  Select  Papyri,  vi.  1.  7.  eAoih,  cxri.  22,  civi.  4j  5. 


STATISTICAL   TABLET   OF    KARNAK.  65 

land  of  goats,  according  to  the  official  statemeat,  taking 
30  chiefs,  80  prisoners,  606  slaves,  and  other  booty. 
From  thence  he  approached  Ninii,  or  Nineveh,  and 
the  fragment  found  by  M.  Mariette,  completing  line 
20,  proves  that  the  city  mentioned  at  the  top  of  the 
twenty-first  is  this  great  capital,  here,  indeed,  called  a 
fort.  It  was  here  that  Thothmes  III.  set  up  his  own 
tablet  as  the  boundary  of  his  empire,  as  he  had  restored 
his  father's  tablet  in  the  Ruten.  This  was  probably 
followed  by  the  description  of  the  events  of  another 
year,  and  of  another  race  who  brought  513  slaves, 
260  horses,  45  lbs.  9  oz.  of  gold,  Gaza  vases,  chariots 
and  armour,  28  buffaloes,'"  64  bulls,  5,323  goats,  828 
jars  of  frankincense  and  palm  wine.  The  word  sha- 
tura,  in  the  sense  of  decorations  or  armour,  has  been 
already  discussed  in  previous  papers,  but  the  text  of 
the  recently-discovered  lines  divides  the  word  into  two 
elements,  sha,  'wood,'  and  nu-ra,  f "^(Vy*-,  as  if 

it  were  an  adjective :  the  phrase  reads  ska  neb  nurua. 
The  cities  continued  to  supply  either  Egypt  or  the 
royal  host,  according  to  their  agreement  with  the  chiefs 
of  the  Erraenn,  or  Armenia,  from  which  it  appears  that 
Egypt  had  by  its  conquest  of  the  Ermenn  imposed  its 
yoke  on  the  tributaries  of  that  nation.  From  the  Er- 
menn or  a  neighbouring  people  were  sent  two  hawks 
or  eagles,  birds  of  a  mountainous  country,  probably 
from  Ararat,  and  four  birds  of  an  unknown  species,  to 
adorn  no  doubt  the  royal  aviaries  as  the  beasts  did  the 
paradeisi,  or  parlts,  of  the  monarch.  Rare  birds,  it  has 
already  been  shown  in  a  former  memoir,  were  sent  by 

^  The  word  tepa  here  is  read  'fat'  by  De  Roug6.  Dr.  Hincka 
read  '  savoury.'  This  word  also  occurs  as  the  tepa  which  comes  from 
the  north  wind. 

VOL.   VII.  p 


66 


OBSERVATIONS    ON    THB 


^ 


Candace  to  Alexander,  and  by  Alexander  to  his  tutc:»i 
Aristotle,  and  the  study  of  zoology  was  first  studie  «1 
under  the  patronage  of  kings.    The  tribute  of  Saenk^u 
was  chiefly  lapis-lazuli,  real  or  aitificialj  and  the  lapi^- 
lazuli   of  Babylon  ;    the   newly-discovered   fragmen  '%:a 
also  record  the  head  of  a  ram  of  that  material.     A»i3-_ 
other  nation,  surnamed  the  'great/  sent  301  !bs. 
silver,  and  a  great  white  stone.     Phoenicia,  or  FurzsE 
contributed  1,685  measures  of  gems,  155  lbs.  2  oz. 
gold,  134  slaves,  419  head  of  cattle,  ivory,  ebony,  a:«ad 
panther-skins.  Another  land  gave  20  males,  104  he=-3ci 
of  cattle.     There  is  an  important  notice  in  the  tbir'^Ky- 
tburth  year,  when  the  king  was  In  Gahai,  or  Gaza,  '      l3d 
was  ffited  on  his  birth-day,'  but  the  date  of  the  gene^*(]' 
lion  is  not  mentioned.    Here  he  took  3  fortresses  on  ^Ciie 
confines  of  Anaukasa,  many  prisoners,  40  horses,  g- 
vases,  70  asses,  and  gaka,  a  dark  wood,  and  sont  w< 
and  9  pillars  of  a  door  plated  with  brass  and  inl 
with  gems.    Large  tributes  continued  to  be  sent  by  '^■'^' 
Ruten,  who  supplied  horses,  512  staves,  55  lbs.  8  ^^z., 
of  gold  and  silver  vases,  silver,  gems,  80  lumps  of  iB~^ 
ore,  11  bricks  or  pigs  of  lead,  100  lbs.  of  colour,  erane- 
ralds  and  jasper,  wood,  iron  vases,  frankincense,  ^  ^^ 
jars  of  palm  wine,  and  2,080  jars  of  the  juice  of  "t^^ 
grape,  or  beer,  birch  (gaka),  wood  chariots,  acacia.  _ 
The  tributary  lands  in  this  year  supplied  beams  for 
king's  palace.     The  last  of  the  tributary  states  m^^"" 
tioned  in  this  portion  of  the  inscription  is  the  lanJ.    '^ 
Asia;  or  the  Asii,  as  they  are  called.  The  tablet  whi  '^ 
I  have  recently  translated  and  cotntnented  upon  a.  *- 
meeting  of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries,  places  th< 
people  to  the  west  instead  of  to  the  east  of  'E^yf 
The  tribute  consisted  in  108  bricks  of  iron,  2,040 L*^ 


•the 
VhJ 


a 
©e 

t 


STATISTICAL    TABLET    OF    KARNAK.  67 

of  pitch,  or,  according  to  Bragsch,  iron,  5  bricks  of 
lead, — not  tin  as  M.  Brugsch  supposes, — -110  lbs.  of 
lapis-Iazuli,  an  ivory  tusk,  and  some  otber  products.^ 
It  is  true  that,  considering  the  name  and  products, 
I  was  inclined  to  believe  that  the  Asii  were  the  Is  or 
His  of  Herodotus,  celebrated  for  the  naphtha-springs, 
bat  M.  Brugsch'"  has  pronounced  for  a  district  of  Pa- 
lestine, assuming  that  the  word  seft  is  not  pitch  but 
iron.  The  new  tablet,  however,  of  Thothmes,  proves 
that  they  must  have  been  a  people  either  of  Libya  or 
Europe,  and  their  products  agree  with  the  first-men- 
tioned continent — the  ivory,  naphtha,  and  lapis  not 
being  natural  products  of  Asia  Minor.  If  the  word 
HeH  had  not  been  proved  to  be  the  Oasis,  such  pro- 
ducts might  indeed  come  by  the  way  of  commerce  from 
the  south  shore  of  Asia  Minor.  There  is  in  this 
last  line  the  mention  of  the  daughter  of  the  chief  of 
Arma,^'  or,  as  I  prefer  to  read  it,  Mar,  the  determina- 
tive of  water,  showing  that  the  locality  was  in  some 
maritime  or  fluvial  country,  such  as  Meroe,  consi- 
dered as  an  island  owing  to  its  being  surrounded  with 
water.  This  closes  the  text  of  the  fragments  of  the 
thirty-five  lines  discovered  by  M.  Mariette. 

In  connection  with  the  Thothmes  III.  annals  is  the 
following  list  of  southern  conquests  of  that  monarch. 

^  It  appears  from  Mr.  Harris's  weight  that  the  kat,  «r  ounce, 
weighed  about  140  grains,  and  the  mna,  or  pound,  1,400  grains; 
Mr.  Harris's  weight  of  5  kat  being  698  grains,  say,  allowing  for  abra- 
iioD,  700  grains;  the  system  was  decimal,  10  kati  making  1  mna. 
See  M.  Chabas,  Rev.  Arch.  1861.  p.  4  t.,  and  Mr.  Edwin  Smith. 
Proc.  Soc.  Ant.  1860. 

*  Geographic,  u.  a.  51,52.  The  whole  of  his  argument  rests  on 
the  question  of  the  word  iron. 

^'  Brugsch,  Geographie,  s.  8 ;  Roeellini,  M.R.  Ixi. 

f2 


68 


OB3EaVATION8   ON    THE 


In  April,  1859,  Mr.  Cyril  Graham  had  communicate: 
to  tne  the  discovery  of  a  new  list  of  prisoners  of  Tholl" 
mes  Ill.t  discovered  by  M.  Mariette,  at  Karuak.  Id 
new  chamber  situate  very  cear  V  in  Lepsius's  gener^a! 
plan  of  Thebes,  and  close  to  the  small  chamber  bul  Jt 
or  restored  by  Philip,  on  the  eastern  wall,  and  on  eac3h 
side  of  tlie  doorway  are  the  names  of  115  nations  co 
quered  by  the  great  king ;  on  the  portion  of  the  w^Ul 
north  of  the  door,  75  only  are  visible,  the  remainiEiig 
40  being  carried  over.  They  are  arranged  in  5  ro^s^vs 
of  23  names  in  each,  and  over  thena  is  aa  inscriptio 
giving  the  subject  of  the  representation-  As  far  a* 
can  make  out  from  Mr.  Graham's  copy,  the  gene 
heading  reads,  "The  collection  of  lands  of  the  south,  and 
Au  [the  Libyans]  and  Khent-hannefer  ....  brouglit 
are  all  their  chiefs  as  living  captives  to  till  the  hoLise 
of  [my]  father  Amen  Ra,  lord  of  the  foundations  ol  the 
world,  behold  all  the  countries  are  in  the  power  of  liis 
majesty,  as  his  father  Amen  ordered."  The  list  of] 
names  reads,  commencing  with  the  1 15th  of  Mr.  Grr^-^ 
ham's  list : — 


DIVISION   I. 

1.  Kush. 

2.  Atarr. 

3.  Atarukhau. 

4.  Khau. 

5.  [erased.] 

6.  [erased.] 
7-  Seranak. 
8.  Banibaru. 

■  9.  Takarr. 
^0.  Aram. 

11.  Arak. 

12.  Ark. 


13.  Tamru. 

14.  Bashakar. 

15.  .  .  eni'kar. 
le.  Mer  \\]  eker. 

17.  Tanit. 

18.  Pakhrua. 

19.  Taruta. 

20.  Tarutaru. 

21.  Ua-Uat. 
32.  Mua. 

23.  fiehaa. 

24.  KhUu. 

25.  Tashau. 


26.  Tahabu. 

27.  Utau. 

28.  Ta-set. 

29.  Pahu. 

30.  Bau. 

DIVISION    n. 

31.  Ureiitum. 

32.  Tumen. 

33.  Anaa. 

34.  Anbet. 

35.  Aama. 

36.  Buut. 

37.  Ppatu. 


STATISTICAL   TABLET    OF    KARNAK. 


69 


38.  A'faen.' 

39.  Ahaa. 

40.  laa. 

41.  Tat 

42.  Antetnut. 
ii.  Aspau. 

44.  Pw-mau. 

45.  Ahaa. 

46.  Am-messD. 
47-  Mensau. 
46.  Aaba. 

49.  Khuahaa. 

50.  Mehtema. 

51.  Aahu  [ru.] 

DIVISION    III. 

52.  Aahu  [ru.] 

53.  A&tem. 

54.  Mmatu. 

55.  Mabntu. 

56.  .  .  .  rtat. 

57.  S[etjhebu. 

58.  Shatem. 

59.  Athtun. 

60.  Hekau. 

61.  Utent. 

62.  Sebau. 

63.  Mest. 


64.  Ab. 

65.  Aaheb. 

66.  Kekt. 

67.  Sesb-sh. 

68.  Kaam. 

69.  Aaur. 

70.  Ba[p]8ta. 

71.  Unkhi. 

DIVISION    IV. 

72.  S  .  .  .  t. 

73.  Abu. 

74.  Kenset. 

75.  Mausu. 

76.  Tahennu. 

77.  Aft. 

78.  Maaut. 

79.  Hebu. 

80.  Maah. 

81.  Bet-bet. 

82.  Menkh. 

83.  T  .  .  .  ent. 

84.  Ta. 

85.  Hudt. 

86.  Nu. 

87.  Apinub. 

88.  Bash. 

89.  Maas. 


90.  Kfaas. 

91.  Ta. 

DIVISION   V. 

92.  Semkha. 

93.  Tater. 

94.  Uart. 

95.  Ubh. 

96.  Nasht. 

97.  Tatnas. 

98.  Gea. 

99.  Aau. 

100.  Nesh-sht. 

101.  Besh  .t. 

102.  Shas. 

103.  Bakt. 

104.  Ashset. 

105.  Tuant. 

106.  Su. 

107.  Mesta. 

108.  Mest. 

109.  Taneferu. 

110.  Au. 

111.  Abtai. 

112.  Tetnepen. 

113.  Tatent. 

114 

115 


The  names  in  this  list  are  difficult  to  read,  and  as 
the  character  of  the  prisoners,  whether  bearded  or  not, 
for  example,  is  not  marked,  they  can  only  be  assigned 
to  their  position  south  or  north  of  Egypt  from  a  com- 
parison with  the  other  lists.  In  the  general  heading 
there  is  no  mention  of  northern  conquests,  but  only  of 
the  south  and  Khenthannefer,  the  southern  port  of  the 
Nile,  which  gives  rise  to  the  idea  that  no  northern  con- 


70  OBSERVATIONS   ON   THE 

quests  are  here  mentioned.  None  of  the  great  names 
of  the  north  are  found,  although  some  appear  probably 
to  be  intended  ;  but  all  that  can  be  read  of  the  earlier 
names,  are  well-known  tribes  of  the  south.  Many  of 
the  names  rather  resemble  those  found  in  the  registers 
of  substances.  And  after  the  first  division,  whether 
they  are  names  of  tribes  or  substances  appears  to  me 
a  matter  of  great  doubt.  It  is  hardly  possible  to  iden- 
tify these  lists,  the  immense  interval  of  time  which 
elapsed  between  their  formation  and  the  earliest  authors 
of  classical  antiquity,  the  probable  change  of  the  names 
of  the  Nigritic  tribes  during  that  interval,  and  the  cor- 
rupt state  of  the  text  of  PUnyand  Ptolemy  augmenting 
the  difficulties  of  the  task.** 

^  Since  reading  the  above,  a  translation  and  comment  aa  the 
newly-discovered  fragment  has  been  published  by  M.  de  Roug£, 
'  Revue  Arch^ologique,'  Juillet,  1860.  The  reader  will  see  how  nearly 
our  ideas  on  this  text  correspond,  although  we  difier  in  some  details. 
The  additional  observations  requisite  have  consequently  been  added 
to  the  text  of  the  paper. 


71 


m.— ON   HAVELOK   THE   DANE. 

BY  R.  O.  LATHAM,  U.D.,  ETC. 

(ReadJune  6th,  1860.) 

Ever  since  its  publication,  under  the  editorship  of 
Sir  Frederic  Madden,  by  the  Roxburghe  Club,  the 
poem  entitled    Havelok  the   Dane   has   commanded 
the  attention  of  critics  of  more  than  one  sort.      It 
has  been  quoted  largely  by  the  investigators  of  our 
local  dialects;  and  that  as  a  poem  containing  a  re- 
markable amount  of  Danish  elements.     It  has  been 
quoted  by  the  investigators  of  our  local  legends  ;  by 
the  historians  of  fiction ;   and  by  the  more  minute 
students  of  our  early  literature  in  general.    Little,  how- 
ever— though  the  work  has  been  reprinted- — has  been 
added  to  the  numerous  and  elaborate  details  of  the 
able  introduction  by  which  it  is  preceded  ;  and,  it  is 
probable,  that  as  far  as  the  facts  more  immediately 
bearing   upon  the  elucidation  of  the  text  are  con- 
cerned, there  is  little  to  be  added.     This  means  that, 
on  the  ground  explored  by  Sir  Frederic  Madden,  the 
present  writer  has  found  little  or  nothing  new.     He 
thinks,  however,  that  beyond  the  field  of  that  critic's 
investigation,  a  few  facts  of  interest  are  to  be  dis- 


72  ON    HAVKLOK    THE    DANE. 

covered.  He  thinks  that  a  remark  of  Sir  Frederic's, 
to  the  effect  that,  although  the  poem,  as  it  stands  at 
present,  is  to  be  found  in  no  form  earlier  than  that 
of  its  Old  English  and  its  Anglo-Norman  versions, 
it  may,  at  an  earlier  period,  have,  in  some  shape  or 
other,  formed  a  portion  of  the  literature  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxons.  Now,  the  earlier  history  of  the  6ction  of 
Havelok  is  the  object  of  this  paper. 

With  this  statement  as  a  preliminary,  we  may  di- 
rect our  attention  towards  the  most  prominent  poem 
of  the  Anglo-Saxon  era— the  so-called  epic  of  Beo- 
wulf. 

The  poem  of  Beowulf,  like  that  of  Havelok,  leaves 
little  to  the  investigator  who  limits  himself  to  the  field 
of  his  predecessors.  The  epoch,  however,  with  which 
the  commentator  upon  Beowulf  ends,  is  earlier  by 
some  centuries  than  that  with  which  the  commentator 
on  Havelok  begins.  Let  us  follow,  however,  the  one 
poem  downwards,  the  other  upwards,  and  ask  whether 
there  is  any  connection  between  them.  Can  any  part 
of  Beowulf  be  traced  downwards  till  the  time  of  the 
Anglo-Norman  and  Old  English  literature  ?  Can  any 
part  of  Havelok  be  traced  upwards  into  the  days  of 
the  Anglo-Saxons  ?  To  both  these  questions  the  pre- 
sent writer  answers,  Yes. 

The  hero  of  Havelok  is  Havelok  himself — hero  and 
protagonist.  One  of  the  heroes  of  Beowulf — one  of 
the  heroes  but  scarcely  a  protagonist — is  Higelac. 
Word  for  word,  I  believe  that  Havelok  and  Higelac 
are  the  same.  In  the  way  of  letter-changes  there  is 
no  difficulty.  The  v  of  the  Danes  is,  in  many  cases, 
the  g  of  the  Swedes  ;  so  that  it  is  as  easy  for  Havelok 
to  be  Higelac,  as  for  the  Danish  tyve  to  be  the  Swedish 


ON    HAVELOK    THE    DANE. 


73 


^Jvgu  ^  twenty.  More,  however,  will  appear  on  this 
P«int  as  we  proceed.  The  Uttle  that  Ib  givea  now  is 
*^*ierely  to  show  a  presumption. 

If  it  were  allowed  for  us  to  stop  here,  we  might 

t  »?al  this  identification  as  a  postulate,  and,  arg;uing: 

_     *^»3iwards,  show  the  amount  of  consequeoces  that  pro- 

W  <^^«ed  from  it.     But  it  is  scarcely  legitimate  to  do  this. 

^X 1  is  premature  to  do  it,  because,  in  all  matters  of  this 

ind,  the  method  by  which  we  arrive  at  our  results  is 

inch   more  important  than  the  results  themselves. 

leoce,   some   evidence   should   be   brought   forward. 

Jow,  this  evidence  is  essentially  of  the  kind  called 

«:^^  vmuiative,  i.  e.  it  consists   in  the  putting  together 

^^^  i  a  series  of  small  facts,  each  of  which  is  in  itself 

'^-^vial,  but  which,  when  combined  with  the  remainder, 

^^^«nstitutes  a  series  of  phenomena  too  closely  allied  to 

V>e  referable  to  accident.     A  result>  however,  of  this 

^^.ind  is  not  necessarily  satisfactory  ;  at  any  rate,  is  not 

-  *^i^nclusive.     Such,  however^  as  it  is,  it  will  be  given, 

The  order  in  which  our  facts  are  arranged  now  comes 

:-^^*nder  notice.     The  purely  historical  method  would 

V»egin  with  the  poem  Beowulf,  or  (if  such  could  be 

'Vmnd)  anything  of  higher  antiquity,  and  (so  beginning) 

■Vwould  proceed  from  the  older  to  the  newer,  until  we  ar- 

>Hved  at  the  newest,  known  forms  of  the  legend.     But 

a  great  portion  of  the  interval  is  other  than  historical. 

The  date  of  Beowulf  itself  is  uncertain,  and  the  time 

^Iween  Beoiuulf  ar\d  Havelok  is  obscure.   This  throws 

Qfi  upon  a  different  Btarting-jroint,  and  induces  us  to 

Tiork  paleeontologically,  or  after  the  manner  of  geolo- 

Kisla ;  i.  e.  to  begin  with  the  latest  form  of  the  story, 

*iid  to  proceed  from  the  new  to  the  old,  from  the  clear 

to tbe obscure,  from  the  known  to  the  unknown.  This, 


J 


74 


ON    J1AV6L0K    THE    DANE. 


the  palffontological  method,  is  the  true  method  fa 

the  archffiologist  of  the  history  of  fiction. 

The  method,  however,  of  the  present  paper  will  I 
mixed-     It  will  take  the  two  extremes  together,  at— idj 
work-in  the  details  of  the  interval. 

It  will  begin  with  the  narrative  in  its  latest  foi 
This,  for  all  practical  purposes,  is  found  in  the  loc 
legends  appertaining  to  the  borough  of  Grimsby,  a: 
in  the  poem  entitled  Argertile  and  Cnran.  In  t^;  :bs 
present  towTi  of  Grimsby  there  is  a  Havelok  Stre  -^et, 
and  a  Havelok  Stone ;  there  is  the  belief,  active  or 

otiose,  as  the  cage  may  be,  that  Havelok  was  pick^p-=i£d 
up  on  the  sea,  by  Grim  the  fisherman;  that  Grim  L*  the 
fisherman  founded  the  town  ;  that  Havelok  got  it  cm-  cer- 
tain commercial  privileges  in  Denmark  ;  and,  in  -^^^ 
alia,  that  Grim's  remains  lie  buried  in  the  part*^'™ 
church,  with  a  monument  over  them.  V 

I  cannot  bring  myself  to  call  this  a  tradition.  At 

the  same  time  it  is  not  easy  to  hit  'upon  its  right  (^de- 
signation.    It  simulates  a  tradition  without  being  o*:^^ 
For  a  full  and  perfect  tradition  the  absence  of  all  cc^^" 
current  records  (records  meaning  written  narrativ- 
is  a  necessary  condition.     Now  the  tale  of  Havel  ^^^ 
has  been  embodied  in  more  than  one  composition,  a^-^^^j 
in  more  than  one  language,  for  upwards  of  seven  hi* 
dred  years  at  the   very  least.     There  has  been  t. 
poem,  and  there  has  been  the  manuscript  of  it,  botS"*' 
perhaps,   obscure   and   but   little  known.     Still  th- 
have  existed,  and  that  concurrently  with  the  tale 
it  ran  in  the  mouths  and  minds  of  the  unlearned 
North  Lincolnshire.     If  the  oral  tradition  failed,  the; 
was  the  written  record  to  replace  it.     It  is  true  thi 
it  was,  for  the  most  part,  unexamined.     Every  refe' 


^^d^ 

d 


ON    HAVELOK   THE    DANE, 


75 


e,  however,  no  matter  how  cursory,  imparted  a 
renewed  life  to  the  commoa  version ;  and  it  cannot 
be  doubted  that,  at  one  time,  the  number  of  indi- 
■  v-jtiuais  who,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  knew  the 
stary  as  a  literary  composition,  was  a  large  one.     So 
Tar,  indeed,  as  it  was  known  beyond  the  precincts  of 
Grimsby,  and  so  far  as  it  was  other  than  a  purely  local 
myth,  it  must  have  been  known  through  the  written 
record.     It  is  unsafe,  then,  to  treat  the  Grimsby  story 
as  either  the  spontaneous  growth  of  the  locality,  or  as 
_^a  measure  of  the  reminiscence  of  the  people.     There 
fis  nothing  to  show  that  it  Js  either  one  or  the  other. 
^rtTithout  the  concurrent  written  record  (supposing  it 
to  have  originated  in  a  fact)  it  might  just  have  out- 
lived the  generation  which  witnessed  it.    On  the  other 
l^and,  it  might,  in  its  origin,  have  been  no  fact  at  all,^ 
Or,  if  a  fact,  an  exotic.     Not  being  able,  then,  to  re- 
t^ognize  the  Grimsby  story  about  Grim  and  Havelok  as 
^  proper  tradition,  and  bearing  in  mind  the  extent  to 
^hich  written  accounts  act  upon  narratives  of  this 
V.ind,  I  have  called  it  a  legend,  i.  e.  a  thing  that  may 
^*  read  about.     The  word  has  a  thorough  etymological 
**3eamng.      It  has  also  a  detimte  technical  import.     It 
*^  meant  to  be  a  slight  contribution  towards  the  de- 
"^^^lopraent  of  a  nomenclature  for  what  we  may  call 
^fce  Philosophy  of  the  history  of  Fiction ;  in  which 
***"^al    traditions  are  very  rare.     Without  a  document, 

rliether  true  or  false,  they  can  never  be  either  veri- 
ed  or  confuted.      With  the  legend,  however,  they  are 
^■*=a.ot  pure  and  simple  traditions.     In  one  case,  and  in 
•ne  case  only,  can  they  be  valid.     This  is  when  the 
a.ltesting  legend,  and  the  current  tradition,  are  abso- 
Votely  independent  of  one  another. 


78 


ON  havelok  the  danb. 


One  thing,  however,  connected  with  the  special  i 
before  us  is  certain,  viz.  the  belief  of  the  people  crr*^ 
Grimsby  in  the  story  respectiag  the  foundation  crr^i^ 
their  tovim.  This  is  not  the  first  occasion  upoawhic=  Tfc" 
the  present  writer  has  expressed  his  disapproval  of  th 
current  tale.  He  has  done  so  before — in  situ  (so  to  say" 
OP  at  Grimsby  itself  The  audience  was  intelligent ;  bi 
by  no  means  inclined  to  stand  criticism.  To  innpu; 
the  story  of  Havelok  in  it-s  presence  was  somethit 
Hke  impugning  the  character  of  Mary,  Queen  of  tl: 
Scots,  at  Edinburgh.  The  week  after  the  opiuion  w; 
expressed,  the  county  paper  contained  a  warm  defem 
of  the  historical  rights  of  the  borough,  strongly  tiO' 
tured  with  the  argumentum  a  civitaie,  implying  re: 
diness  to  defend  them  against  all  comers,  and — p(t  ^^ 
dixerim — against  ail  arguments.  Give  us  back  o^mjzz^ti 
eponymus,  was  the  feeling  to  the  Aristarcbi  of  Grinm  ^^- 
by.  Thebehef  in  a  tradition  is  one  thing;  the  fact  «=3f 
its  being  a  tradition  is  another ;  its  truth  a  third.  TV 
first  and  last  are  not  unfrequently  in  the  inverse  rati 
to  one  another. 

Tradition,  however,  or  legend,  the  Grimsby  versi' 
of  the  tale  of  Grim  and  Havelok  at  Grimsby,  h: 
like  most  stories  of  the  same  kind,  a  decided  m/erenf/*^' 
element :  this  means  that  it  has  parts  which  ha."^^^ 
originated  out  of  the  e:tplanation  of  some  real  fa<--MI 
Upon  the  antiquity  of  Havelok  Street  1  am  not  p«~^^ 
pared  to  pronounce  an  opinion.  The  name  Grirn^^^^ 
may,  possibly,  be  derived  from  that  of  the  fisherm 
so  called  ;  in  which  case  we  have  no  inference,  but:, 
fact.  The  commercial  privileges,  however,  by  wM 
the  merchants  of  Grimsby  were  put  by  the  Danes  in  t_  t 
position  of  a  favoured  body  of  traders,  are  said  to  h»" 


ON    HAVBLOK   THE    DANE.  77 


« 


beea  real ;  ia  which  case,  though  wholly  unconnected 
with  any  real  Havelok,  they  may  easily  have  produced 
a  hypothetical  one,  through  the  existence  and  acts  of 
whom  they  originated.  In  respect  to  the  monument 
two  things  are  certain, — the  first,  that  there  is  one  in 
the  parish  church  ;  the  second,  that  It  is  not  Grim's. 
It  is  treated,  however,  as  if  it  were  ;  an  unreal  occu- 
pant being  attached  to  it ;  an  unreal,  or  hypothetical, 
Grim ;  a  Grim  who  instead  of  owning  the  tomb  has 
grown  out  of  it ;  a  Grim  who  is  good  illustration  of 
the  point  now  before  us,  viz.  the  inferential  element  in 
certain  so-called  traditions.  Upon  the  same  principle 
the  eagle  (as  I  have  been  told)  in  the  church  of  Leigh- 
ton  Buzzard  (Beaudesert),  which  serves  as  a  lectern, 
is  stated  to  be  the  buzzard  from  which  the  town  took 
its  name. 

"And  it  will  not  be  amisse,  to  say  something  concerning  y" 
Common  tradition  of  her  first  founder  Grime,  as  y'  inhabi- 
tants (with  a  Catholique  faith)  name  him.  The  tradition  is 
thus.  Grime  (say  they)  a  poore  Fisherman  (as  he  was  launch- 
ing into  y*  River  for  fish  in  his  Uttle  boate  upon  the  Humber) 
espyed  not  far  from  him  another  Uttle  boate  empty  (as  he 
might  conceave)  which  by  y^  fauuur  of  y"  wynde  and  tyde, 
still  approached  nearer  and  nearer  unto  him.  He  betakes 
him  to  his  oares,  and  meets  itt,  wherein  he  founde  onely  a 
Childe  wrapt  in  swathing  clothes,  purposely  exposed  (as  it 
should  seerae)  to  y*  pittyless  [rage]  of  y'  wilde  and  wide 
Ocean.  He  Moued  with  pitty,  takes  itt  home,  and  like  a 
good  foster-father  carefully  nourisht  itt,  and  endeavoured  to 
nourishe  it  in  his  owne  occupation :  but  y*  childe  contrarily 
was  wholy  deuoted  to  exercises  of  actiuity,  and  when  he  be- 
gan to  write  man,  to  martiall  sports,  and  at  length  by  his 
signall  valour  obteyned  such  renowne,y'  he  marryed  y*  King 
of  England's  daughter,  and  last  of  all  founde  who  was  his 


78  ON    HAVELOK    THE    DANE. 

true  Father,  and  that  he  was  Sonne  to  y'  King  of  Denmark 
and  for  y"  comicke  close  of  all;  that  Haueloke  (for such  was 
his  name)  exceedingly  aduanced  and  enriched  his  foster- 
father  Grime,  who  thus  enriched,  builded  a  fayre  Towne 
neare  the  place  where  Hauelocke  was  founde,  and  named  it 
Grimsby.  Thtu  say  some:  others  differ  *  little  in  y'circam- 
stances,  as  namely,  that  Grime  was  not  a  Fisherman  bat  a 
Merchant,  and  that  Hauelocke  should  be  preferred  to  y* 
King's  Kitchen,  and  there  Hue  a  longe  tyme  as  a  Scullion : 
but,  however  y'  circumstances  differ,  they  all  agree  in  y" 
consequence,  as  concerning  y*  Towne's  foundation,  to  which 
(sayth  y*  story)  Hauelocke  y*  Danish  prince,  afterward  graun- 
ted  many  immunityes.  This  is  y"  femous  Tradition  concern- 
ing Grimsby  w=''  learned  Mr.  Camden  give  so  little  credit  to, 
that  he  thinkes  it  onely  illis  dignissima,  qui  anilibua  fabulis 
noctem  solent  protendere. 

"First,  y'  etimology  of  y'  word  (Grimsby)  will  carry  a 
probability,  y'  termination  by  signifying  in  y'  Danish  tongue 
habitatio,  a  dwelling,  so  as  I  know  noe  reason,  why  Grimsby 
should  not  import  y  dwelling  of  Grime,  and  receaue  this 
denomination  from  him,  as  well  as  Ormes-by  from  Onue,  and 
Ketels-by  from  Ketell,  two  Danish  captaines  under  Canute, 
in  the  dayes  of  King  Ethelred,  which  Capt.  Henry  Skipwith 
affirmed  unto  me,  and  that  he  could  prove  itt,  not  onely  out 
of  y"  legend  of  Nun-Ormesby  but  from  other  good  and  unques- 
tionable Records.  Secondly  that  there  was  such  a  Prince  as 
Hauelocke,  take  old  Robert  of  Gloucester  for  proofe,  who 
speakes  him  y'  sonne  of  Gunter,  or  Gurthrum,  Gutron,  or 
Gurmond  (for  all  those  foure  names  I  fynde  given  him), 
Kinge  of  Denmarke 

"  'That  Gunter,  that  fader  was,  etc.' 

Thirdly,  that  Hauelocke  did  sometymes  reside  at  Grimsby, 
may  be  gathered  from  a  great  blew  I^uundary-stone,  lying  at 
y"  East  ende  of  Briggowgate,  which  retaines  y*  name  of 
Hauelock^s-Stone  to  this  day.  Agayne  y"  great  priviledges 
and  immunities,  that  this  Towne  hath  in  Denmarke  above 
any  otlitJ  in  England,  (as  freedome  from  Toll,  and  the  rest,) 


ON    HAVELOK    THE    DANE.  79 

may  fairely  induce  a  Beleife,  that  some  preceding  favour,  or 
good  tume  called  on  this  remuneration.  But  lastly  (which 
proofe  I  t^e  to  be  instar  omnium)  the  Common  Seale  of  y* 
Towne,  and  that  a  most  ancient  one.*' 

The  loves  of  Argentile  and  Curan  form  one  of  the 
narratives  of  Warner's  long  poem,  entitled  Albion's 
England,  and  they  give  us  the  best  Icnown  sample 
of  the  author's  poetry.  The  metre — the  ordinary 
ballad  stanza  of  four  lines — runs  freely  and  easily,  and 
the  language,  though  it  occasionally  surprises  us  with 
a  new  word,  is  anything  but  archaic.  The  habits 
of  a  neatherd  and  a  neatress  (the  term  is  Warner's) 
are  represented  with  great  homeliness,  not  to  say  oc- 
casional coarseness.  At  the  same  time,  the  poem  has 
found  its  way  into  more  than  one  collection,  and  is 
known  to  numerous  readers.  It  tells  us  how  Adelbright 
and  Edil,  two  brothers,  were  joint  rulers  over  either  the 
whole  or  a  part  of  England  ;  how  Adelbright  died  first, 
leaving  behind  him  a  single  fair  daughter  named  Ar- 
gentile, with  the  usual  requests  to  his  surviving  brother 
and  partner  of  the  crown ;  how  Edil  is  wicked  after 
the  fashion  of  uncles,  and  keeps  Argentile  in  sad  se- 
clusion, so  that  the  chance  of  marriage  and  offspring 
is  out  of  the  question.  Curan,  however,  of  Danish 
blood,  and  the  son  of  the  King  of  Kirkland,  sees,  loves, 
and,  for  the  simple  sake  of  enjoying  the  propinquity 
of  the  beautiful  Argentile,  attaches  himself  to  Ethil's 
household  as  a  kitchen-drudge  or  scullion.  As  a  kit- 
chen-drudge or  scullion  he  confesses  his  love  to  Ar- 
gentile, which  the  lady  declines,  but  which  her  wicked 
uncle  would  encourage,  as  it  favours  his  plans  for  de- 
grading Argentile, — of  course  in  appearance  only, — 
the  real  lover  being  the  heir  to  a  crown.   After  a  while 


80  ON    HAVBLOK   THE    DANK. 

however,  both  leave  the  court,  Curan  to  keep  herds, 
Argentile  to  be  a  rustic  damsel  in  his  Deigbbourhood. 
Of  course,  their  love  is  renewed ;  the  mutual  love  of 
two  peasants.  The  poem  winds  up  with  the  discovery 
of  the  rank  on  both  sides,  and  the  downfall  of  the 
tyrant  Edil. 

Here  we  have  the  romantic  element  at  its  maximum^ 
the  historical  at  its  minimum.  There  is  nothing  about 
Grim  or  Grimsby ;  nothing  about  Havelok ;  nothing 
to  imply  that  Curan  is  Havelok  under  another  name  ; 
nothing,  in  short,  to  tell  us  why  the  poem  has  been 
placed  in  the  present  inquiry  at  all.  The  doubts  upon 
this  point,  however,  will  soon  be  removed.  Meanwhile 
we  may  remark  that  the  Danish  origin  of  the  hero  is 
prominently  put  forward,  the  particular  domain  over 
which  his  father  ruled  being  called  Kirkland — a  likely 
name  for  a  parish,  but  a  strange  one  for  a  king- 
dom. 

"  At  Kirkland  is  my  father's  court, 

And  Curan  is  mj  name, 
In  Edil's  court  sometime  in  pomp. 

Till  Love  controlled  the  same." 

Bearing  in  mind  what  I  know  concerning  the  ex' 
traordiuary  transHgurations  undergone  by  fictions,  I 
would  not  say  that  Kirkeland  was  not  Greece,  i.  e., 
Grekaland. 

Curan  died  King  of  Northumberland,  one  of  the 
pre-eminently  Danish  parts  of  England. 

"  Not  England  (for  of  Hengest  then 

Was  named  so  the  landj 
Than  Curan  had  a  hnrdier  knight ; 

His  force  could  none  withstand. 
Whose  sheephook  kid  apart,  he  then 

Had  higher  things  in  hand. 


ON    HAVELOK    THE    OANB.  81 

"  First  makitig  known  his  lawful  claim 
In  ArgCDtile  her  right, 
He  vmrred  in  D^ria,  and  he  won 
Bemicla^  too,  in  fight. 

"  And  to  from  trencberous  £dil  took 
At  once  his  life  And  crowne. 
And  of  Northtimbcrland  was  king. 
Long  rcigiiing  in  reuowne." 

That  Goldsmith  knew,  either  directly  or  indirectly, 
*tic  tale  of  Argentile  and  Curan  is  probable.  If  he 
*^id,  we  may  bear  in  mind  the  double  disguise,  and 
•>old  it  likely  that  in  his  Edwin  aad  Angelina, 

^P  "  Whose  father  lived  beaide  Che  1)/Tifj" 

»^^'e  have  the  last  faiat  echo  of  Argentile  and  Curan. 
We  are  now  at  one  extremity  of  our  real  or  sup- 
t*08ed  cycle.     On  the  other  stands  Beowulf.     Writers 
'^vilh  whom  I  am  unwillitig  to  differ  have  given  it  a 
*^igh  antiquity.     The  passages  that  allude  to  Chris- 
t-iaoity  are  few,  and,  perhaps,  interpolated.     It  con- 
t-ains  no  allusions  to  England  ;   a  negative  fact,  ex- 
l^Iained  by  the  doctrine  that  it  is  not  only  referable 
*■«  the  Angles  of  Germany  rather  than  England,  but 
_  *~eferable  to  that  early  part  of  their  history  which  pre- 
•«=^=^ded  the  conquest  of  Britain.     On  the  other  hand, 
ilengest  is  one  of  its  heroes. 

Whether  old  or  young,  however,  the  poem  of  Beo- 

"^^STilf  is,  at  any  rate,  Anglo-Saxon   rather  than  Old 

^^3nglish  or  Anglo-Norman,  and,  as  such,  the  oldest  of 

"^^lieconipositionsthat  come  under  our  present  examina- 

"tioE.    For  the  present  it  is  enough  to  say  what  it  does 

"***t  contain.     It  contains  no  story  of  any  disguised 

^cver  at  all ;  indeed,  it  contains  a  minimum  amount 

VOl,,  VII-  Q 


62  ON    HAVBtOK   THE    DANE. 

of  love  of  any  kind.  It  contains  no  such  name  as 
Curan  at  all.  It  contains  no  names  like  Kirkland  or 
Adelbright.  It  contains  no  name  nearer  to  Edil  than 
Hrethel ;  and  no  name  nearer  to  Argentile  than  On- 
ffeontheow,  that  being  a  word  of  the  masculine  gender, 
and  the  name  of  a  King  of  Sweden ;  Argentile  be- 
ing, as  has  been  already  stated,  the  name  of  a  lovely 
lady. 

Assuredly,  there  are  no  great  elements  of  identity 
here.  What  there  is,  if  anything,  promises  but  little. 
Should  Argentile  and  Curan  have  been  developed  out 
of  Beowulf,  the  historian  of  the  transmutation  must 
look  up  his  commonplaces.  And  they  will  not  be 
far  off.  They  will  give  the  tralatitious  illustration  of 
the  Delphic  ship,  with  its  old  wood  replaced  by  new 
timbers ;  of  Sir  John  Cutler's  silk  stockings  darned 
with  worsted  until  the  silk  had  become  non-existent ; 
of  the  Highlander's  knife,  with  its  two  new  blades  and 
three  new  handles.  So  things  stand  at  present.  Ar- 
gentile and  Curan  are  about  as  like  Beowulf  as  the 
second  Eclogue  is  like  the  second  Mneid.  Such  the 
extremes;  such  the  change.  How  it  came  about  is 
another  question.  It  is  clear  that  Havelok  is  not 
Curan,  nor  Curan  Havelok,  word  for  word.  Neither 
are  they  the  same  names  in  the  way  that,  for  instance, 
Atrides  is  Agamemnon,  or  Tydides  is  Diomed.  Neither 
do  they  seem  to  be  Christian  and  surnames  ;  though 
the  practice  of  a  Pagan  Dane  upon  his  conversion 
taking  a  second  name  from  his  sponsor  was  a  common 
one. 

For  all  this  the  two  names  represent  the  same  per- 
son ;  however  little  they  may  consist  of  the  same  letters, 
and  however  obscure  the  connection  between   them 


ON    HAVBLOK    THE    DANE.  83 

may  be.  Upon  this  point,  all  doubts  are  removed  by 
reference  to  the  intermediate  compositions,  the  chief  of 
which  have  already  been  alluded  to.  They  are  the  two 
poems  edited  by  Sir  Frederic  Madden,  the  well-known 
Havelok  the  Dane,  an  English  romance,  and  its  fel- 
low (though  in  many  respects  different)  in  Norman 
French. 

The  English  poem  gives  the  nearest  approach  to  the 
Grimsby  legend.  The  hero's  name  is  simply  Have- 
lok,  his  preserver  being  Grim,  and  his  town  Grimsby. 
The  heroine,  for  in  a  long  romancfe  we  must  expect 
details  that  we  miss  in  a  short  legend,  is  named  Gold- 
borough. 

"  '  I  Bba]  do  cuten  him  id  the  se, 
Ther  I  wile  tb&t  he  drenchen  be  ; 
AboQten  hia  hale  an  anlier  god, 
That  he  ne  flete  in  the  fiod.' 
Ther  anon  he  dede  eende 
After  a  fishere  that  he  weode. 
That  wolde  al  hia  wille  do. 
And  sone  anon  he  seyde  htm  to  : 
'  Grim,  thou  woat  thu  art  mi  thral ; 
Wiltu  don  mi  wille  al. 
That  I  wile  bidden  the. 
To  morwen  sbal  I  raaken  tbe  fre. 
And  aucte  the  yeueo,  and  riche  make. 
With  than  tbu  wilt  this  child  take, 
And'leden  bira  with  the  to  nicht. 
Than  thou  aest  the  mone  lith, 
Into  the  Be,  and  don  him  ther  inne, 
Al  wile  [I]  taken  on  me  tbe  sinne.' 
Gnm  tok  tbe  child  and  bond  him  faate. 
Hwil  the  bondes  micte  laste. 
That  weren  of  ful  atrong  line  : — 
Tho  was  Hauelok  in  ful  strong  pine. 
Als  he  tirneden  of  his  aerk. 
On  his  rith  sholdre  a  Kyne  merk, 

g2 


84 


ON    HAVBLOE    THE    DANE. 


A  swith*  brith,  a  swithe  fair : 

'  Goddab  ! '  quotb  Grim,  'this  ure  eir 

Tbat  abal  [bio]  louerdof  DeDemark, 

He  ehal  ben  Kibg:  Strang  ttttd  atark; 

He  ehal  hauen  in  his  bond 

A  [1]  Denemark  and  Engeland; 

He  ehal  do  Godard  full  wo^ 

He  abal  bim  ban^en,  or  quick  flo ; 

Of  be  aba)  bim  al  quic  graue, 

Of  him  sbal  he  do  mcrci  haue.' 

ThuB  Hcide  Grim,  and  sore  grat, 

Aod  &one  fel  him  to  thefi!t. 

And  4eide, '  Louerd,  haue  merci 

Of  me,  and  Leae,  tbat  is  me  bi ! 

Loiierd,  we  aren  bothe  thioe, 

Tbiae  cherlea.  thine  bine. 

Lowerd,  we  eholen  the  wel  fede. 

Til  thatlhu  cone  riden  on  stede. 

Til  that  thu  cuue  ful  wel  here 

Helm  on  heued,  sheld  and  spere. 

Ht  □£  shal  neuefe  wite,  aikerlike, 

Godard,  that  fule  awike, 

Thoru  other  man,  louerd,  than  thoruthe, 

Sal  I  nuere  freman  be. 

TboQ  shalt  me.louerd,  fre  inakeD, 

For  I  «ha]  yemon  tbe,  and  waken 

Thoni  tbe  wile  I  fredotn  haue." 

Tbo  was  Haueloc  a  blithe  knave. 

He  sat  bim  up,  and  crauede  bred, 

And  seide,  '  Icb  am  oey  d«da, 

Hwat  for  hunger,  wat  for  bondea. 

Tbftt  thu  leidest  on  min  hondes  : 

And  for  keuel  at  the  laate. 

That  in  mi  mouth  was  thrist  faste. 

I  waa  the  with  so  harde  prangled. 

That  I  was  the  with  ney  Btrangled.' 

Wel  is  me  that  thee  mayth  bete  : 
Goddotb  ! '  quath  Leue,  '  Y  ehal  the  fete 
Bred  an  cbcse,  butere  and  milk, 
Paatees  and  flaunca,  al  with  euilk  ; 


ON    BATBLOK  THB    DAMS  '85 

Shale  we  aone  tlie  ml  Mi^ 

Looerd,  in  this  mikel  nede. 

Sotb  it  ii,  dut  meD  eeyt  and  eaeredi : 

liter  God  wile  belpeD^  nonth  ne  denth." 

Grim  tboacte  to  late  that  he  ran 

FVo  that  traytoor,  tha[t]  wicked  man ; 

AndthoDcte,  <  Wat  dial  me  to  rede  ? 

Wite  he  him  on  line,  he  wile  bethe 

Uejt  bangen  on  galwe  tre ; 

Betere  os  ii  of  londe  to  He. 

And  berwen  bothen  ore  hues. 

And  mine  children,  and  mine  winea." 

Grim  idde  sone  al  bis  com, 

Shep  wit  woUe,  netb  wit  bora, 

Hora,  and  iwin  wit  herd, 

Hw  geea.  the  bennea  of  the  yerd ; 

Al  he  eold.  that  oath  donthe, 

That  he  enre  aeUe  moocte. 

And  alhe  to  thepenidron: 

Htae  ship  he  greythede  wd  inow. 

He  dede  it  tere,  an  Ad  wel  joke. 

That  it  DC  doatede  send  ne  krike ; 

Tber  inne  dide  a  fill  god  mast, 

StroDge  kables,  and  M  fast. 

Ores  god,  an  fdl  god  seyl, 

Tber  inne  waotede  nontb  a  nayl. 

That  eaere  he  aholde  ther  inne  do : 

Hwan  he  hane  det  greythed  so, 

Hanelok  the  yunge  he  dide  ther  inne, 

Him  and  hie  wif,  hise  sonea  tbrinne. 

And  hise  two  doutres,  that  &ire  wore, 

And  Bone  dede  he  leyn  in  an  ore. 

And  droa  him  to  the  heye  se, 

Hiere  he  mitb  alther-best  fle. 

Fro  londe  woren  he  bote  a  mile, 

Ne  were  neuere  but  ane  hwile. 

That  it  ne  bigan  a  wind  to  rise. 

Oat  of  the  north,  men  calleth  Bise, 

And  drof  bem  tntil  Engeland. 

That  al  was  sithen  m  his  bond. 


V 


ON    HATBLOK    THE    DANE, 

His  tbat  Haue1(?l[  was  the  name  ; 
Bill  or  he  hau^de  tnichel  sbame, 
Michel  sorwc,  and  michel  tene. 
And  thrie,  he  gat  it  al  bidene  i 
Ala  ye  shalen  nou  forthwar  hercj 
Yf  that  ye  wilen  thtr  to  here. 
Jd  Humber  Grim  began  to  lende. 
In  Lindeecye,  nth  at  the  north  ebde. 
Ther  sat  is  ship  up  in  the  sond, 
But  Grim  it  droD  up  to  the  lend ; 
And  there  he  made  a  Htei  cote, 
To  him  uad  to  hiae  f  ote. 
Bigon  be  there  for  to  erlhe, 
A  lilel  bus  to  aialteh  of  erthe. 
So  that  he  wel  thtre  were 
Of  here  herboru  herborowed  ihere: 
Aud  for  that  Grim  that  place  »utej 
The  Btede  o(  Grim  the  name  laute  : 
So  that  Grimesby  ctulUeth  alle 
That  ihet  offt  speken  alle. 
And  so  shalen  men  callpn  it  ay, 
Bituene  this  and  domesday." 

The  French  poem  is  partly  an  approximation  to  the 
Grimsby  legend,  aad  partly  an  approximation  to  the 
poem  Argentile  and  Curan  :  and  it  is  this  double  cha- 
racter that  gives  iits  interest  aad  value.  It  is  the  French 
poem,  through  which  the  connection  between  the  two, 
which  has  hitherto  been  no  connection  at  all,  is  et- 
fectcd.  The  name  of  the  heroine  is  Argentile  j  not 
Goldborough.  That  these  words  differ  is  clear  ;  but 
may  they  not  diflbr  simply  as  the  two  precious  metals, 
as  Argentina,  the  Silvery,  from  Chryseis,  the  Golden? 
I  suggest  this  without  laying  much  stress  on  it.  The 
fact  upon  which  stress  is  to  be  laid  is  the  name  of  the 
hero.  It  is  Jlnvflok  .  but  not  iiavelok  pure  and  sim- 
ple.    It  is  Havclok  Qaaran. 


ON    HAVBLOK  TBI    DAHfl.  97 

"  Uoleiitera  deoeroit  rom  oir, 
tt  reconter  &  retciur. 
Lei  nobles  f»  u  indou. 
Et  lea  proDMcea  &  la  bient. 
Enamplet  prendre  &  rememlnrer. 
For  lea  franca  honwB  amender 
i^bunies  &  meapritionB. 
Cee  denereit  eitre  U  sermoni. 
Dont  Torn  w  denst  diMtier. 
Car  molt  i-id  nuuiwds  nwata. 
Cheaenns  ie  garde  come  par  Boi. 
L'aoeDtore  d'nn  riebe  na. 
Et  de  plnsiira  antrea  bonmi 
Doat  ieo  TUB  mnnerai  lea  noni 
Aaaez  briefineut  le  tos  derrai. 
L'anentnre  vna  conterai. 
ffamtloe  f  at  oil  roi  nomtf 
Et  Cteona  eat  appdK, 
Ftar  060  Toa  vml  de  lai  conter. 
Et  a  aaBotnre  remembrert 
Qe  ra  lai  en  firent  li  Breton. 
Si  I'appellerent  de  son  noa 
Et  Haueloc  &  Ctutrant 
De  son  piere  derrai  auant 
GuHter  oat  dod  si  fut  Danoit. 
La  terra  tint,  ai  estoit  rois. 
En  icel  tens  qe  Artkur  regna. 
Vers  Danemarcbe  mer  pasea." 
A  icel  teas  qe  190  tus  di 
Vn  Roi  q'eat  nome  AUi 
Tenoit  en  la  terre  en  sa  baiUie 
Nicole,  &  tote  LMme, 
Cele  partie  vers  le  north 
Et  Rotelmde  &  Stai/ord. 
Out  cil  AUi  en  heritage, 
Mes  il  estoit  Bret  par  ligoage. 
Le  roianme  vera  les  Surois, 
Goaemoit  vns  aatires  roia 
Ekenbright  out  dl  rois  anon 
Mult  out  en  lai  noble  baron. 


88  ON    HAVELOK  THE   DANE. 

II  out  la  eoroDT  AJsi 
Compai^on  furent  &  ami. 
Orewen  vne  dame  vaillant. 
Mes  eatre  eos  n'eareat  eofaot. 
Mee  qe  vue  fille  bele. 
Argentine  oot  non  la  pncele. 
BoU  Ekenbright  fut  enfermez. 
La  terre  voat  soax  mettre  a  eoi, 
Et  le  treu  auer  del  Roi. 
Au  roi  Gunter  se  combati, 
Et  as  DanoiB  sis  venqui, 
Li  roift  meismes  i-fut  occia 
Et  ptusars  autres  del  pais. 
Hodul/ Voccist  par  traison, 
Qui  tonz  iors  out  le  qaeu  felon." 

That  either  the  French  or  the  English  poems  are  no 
older  than  the  reiga  of  Henry  II.,  and,  probably,  not 
so  old,  is  what  we  expect.  This,  however,  refers  to 
their  form  only.  Their  matter  may  be  of  much  higher 
antiquity.  Is  it  so  ?  The  rule  that  nothing  is  older 
than  its  newest  part  has  an  absolute  application  only 
when  a  work  is  the  product  of  a  single  author,  and 
has  kept  its  origind  form.  In  cases,  however,  where 
there  has  been  a  successive  accretion  of  matter,  or 
where  subsequent  additions  are  likely,  it  must  not  be 
taken  too  strictly ;  though,  upon  the  whole,  it  is  a 
sound  one.  In  the  French  poem  we  find  a  name 
which  makes  even  the  matter  of  the  work,  to  some 
degree  at  least,  recent.  The  Danish  king  of  whom 
Havelok  Cuaran  is  the  son  is  named  Birkbeyn.  But 
this  is  no  true  proper-name  ;  neither  is  it  Danish  so 
much  as  Norwegian.  It  is,  however,  a  truly  historical 
term,  the  period  of  the  Birkebeins  being  a  well-marked 
period  in  Norwegian  politics.  It  was  the  name  of  a 
faction,  which,  upon  a  doubtful  title,  raised  one  of 


ON    HATBLOK   THE    DANB.  89 

their  leaders,  Swerrer,  to  the  throne.  It  was  the 
name  of  a  rude  sort  of  Praetorians  who,  for  nearly 
ninety  years,  exercised  a  great  and  bad  influence  over 
the  affaurs  of  Norway.  Their  opponents  were  the 
Baglers,  and  where  Snorro's  history  ends,  the  quarrels 
between  these  two  factions  hegin.  Mr.  Laing  remarks 
that  towards  the  end  of  their  career  they  came  to  re- 
present the  Church  and  the  State  respectively  ;  the 
Birkebeiners  being  the  partisans  of  the  latter.  It  was 
lo  King  Swerrer  and  his  dynasty  that  they  were  more 
especially  attached.  Now,  the  eartiest  notice  of  them 
is  in  the  reign  of  Magnus  Erlingsson,  a  contemporary 
of  Henry  II.,  their  6rst  appearance  being  a.d.  1173. 

"  There  was  a  man  called  £ystein,  who  gave  himself  out 
for  a  son  of  King  Eystein  Haraldsson.  He  was  at  this  time 
young  and  not  full  grown.  It  is  told  of  him,  that  he  one 
summer  appeared  in  Sweden,  and  went  to  Earl  Birgar  Brose, 
vho  was  then  married  to  Eystein's  aunt,  a  daughter  of  King 
Harald  Gille.  Eystein  explained  his  business  to  them,  and 
asked  their  assistance.  Both  Earl  Birgar  and  his  wife  lis- 
tened to  him  in  a  friendly  way,  and  promised  him  their  con- 
fidence, and  he  stayed  with  them  awhile.  Earl  Bii^ar  gave 
him  some  assistance  of  men,  and  a  good  sum  for  travelling 
expenses,  and  both  promised  him  their  friendship  on  his 
taking  leave.  Thereafter  Eystein  proceeded  north  into  Nor- 
way, and  when  he  came  down  to  Viken,  people  flocked  to 
him  in  crowds ;  and  Eystein  was  then  proclaimed  king,  and 
he  remained  in  Viken  in  winter.  As  they  were  very  poor  in 
money,  they  robbed  all  around,  wherefore  the  lendermen  and 
bonders  raised  men  against  them;  and  being  thus  overpowered 
by  numbers,  they  fled  away  to  the  forests  and  deserted  hill 
grounds,  where  they  lived  for  a  long  time.  Their  clothes 
being  worn  out,  they  wound  the  bark  of  the  birch-tree  about 
their  legs,  and  thus  were  called  by  the  bonders  Birkebeiners. 

"  They  often  rushed  down   upon   the   settled   districts. 


90 


ON    HAVELOK   THB    DANK. 


puahed  on  here  or  there,  and  made  an  assault  where  they 
did  not  find  many  people  to  oppose  them^  They  had  several 
brutes  with  the  botiders  with  various  success.,  and  the  Btrke- 
beiners  held  three  battles  in  regular  array,  and  gained  the 
victory  in  them  all.  At  Krugskoven  they  had  nearly  made 
an  unlucky  expedition,  for  a  great  number  of  bonders  and 
men-at-arms  were  there  assembled  against  them  ;  bnt  the 
Birkebeiners  felled  brushwood  across  the  roads,  and  retired 
into  the  forest.  They  were  two  years  in  Viken  before  they 
showed  themselves  in  the  northern  parts  of  the  country. 

"  Magnus  had  been  king  for  thirteen  years  when  the 
Birkebeiners  first  made  their  appearance.  They  got  ibem- 
selves  ships  in  the  third  summer,  with  which  they  sailed 
along  the  coast  gathering  goods  and  men.  They  were  first  _ 
in  Viken,  but  when  summer  advanced  they  proceeded  north-  I 
wardSjand  so  rapidly  that  no  news  preceded  them  until  they 
came  to  Drontheim.  Tlie  Birkebeiners*  troop  consisted  pria- 
cipally  of  hillmen  and  river  borderers,  and  many  were  from 
Thelemark,  and  were  all  well  armed.  Their  king,  Eystein, 
was  a  handsome  man,  with  a  little  but  good  countenance ; 
and  he  was  not  of  great  stature,  for  his  men  called  him 
Eystein  the  SmatL  King  Magnus  and  Earl  Erling  were 
in  Bergen  when  the  Birkebeiners  sailed  past  it  to  the  north, 
but  they  did  not  hear  them." 

So  much,  then,  for  the  date  of  the  French  poem  ;  so 
important  in  our  inquiries,  inasmuch  as  it  places  be- 
yond either  doubt  or  shadow  of  doubt,  the  strange  and 
mysterious  identification  of  Caran  aud  Havelok.  How 
came  it  ?  Was  there  any  real  or  fictitious  Cuaran, 
some  of  whose  actions  or  attributes  might  be  con- 
founded with  those  of  a  Havelok  ?  Was  there  any 
other  Havelok  ?  Was  there  any  one  with  a  name 
like  Havelok  ?  There  certainly  was  something  of  this 
kind.  There  was,  at  least,  one  hero  with  a  name  like 
Cuaran  ;  and  he  was  a  Dane.    There  was  another  hero. 


I 
I 

ft 

I 
I 


named  Anlaf;  and  he  was  a  Dane.  Thirdly,  there 
was  a  Dane  whom  tlie  Angles  called  Anlaf  Cwiran. 
That  Cwiran  may  be  Cuaran  is  plain ;  but  how  can 
Anlaf  be  Havelok  ?  The  difficulty  lies  with  the  change 
between  the  n  and  v  (or  u).  In  the  omission  of  the 
initial  aspirate,  and  the  substitution  of/  for  k,  there 
is  but  little  to  give  trouble.  The  change,  however, 
n  to  v  is  serious.     Nevertheless,  it  is  real. 

"This  connection  of  the  stofy  of  Havelok,  and  the  claim 
of  the  Danes,  through  him,  to  England,  with  the  legend  of 
Gay  of  Warwick,  is  curious,  and  enables  ua  to  form  another 
link  in  the  chain  of  Dano-Sason  traditions.  The  legend 
jtaelf  may  be  found  in  Robert  of  Brunne;  in  the  'Petit 
Bruit,'  referred  to  above  ;  in  the  rbinies  of  Girardus  Ctirnu- 
biecisis  (said  by  Tanner  to  be  extracted  from  Gerald  Cam- 
brensis,  c.  xi.  Hist.  Reg.  West.  Sax.],  priuted  by  Heame, 
ad  calc.  Aiinal.  Dunst.  No.  xi.,  and  translated  by  Lydgate ; 
in  the  Chronicles  of  Knyghton,  Rudburn,  Fabyan,  and 
Hardyng  ;  in  the  Liber  de  Hida,  MSS.  Sldane,  717j  and 
in  '  feffoit  Hatielok  &ez  quatre  iitz :  si  gist  a  priore  de 
Grescherche  en  Loundrez*  (f.  6  b.) ;  Dugdale'a  *  History  of 
Warwickshire/  p.  374.  In  all  these  authors  the  Kings  of 
Denmark  and  Norway,  who  are  said  to  have  brought  over 
Colbrand,  are  named*  Anelap/ms  and  CoMela^Aus;  but  in  the 
old  metrical  romance  of  Guy  of  Warwick,  printed  by  W. 
Copland,  before  1567j  Coll.  Garrick,  K.  9  (which  Warton, 
vol.  i,  p.  91,  conjectures  to  have  been  written  by  Walter  of 
Eieter,  a  Franciscan  friar  of  Carocus,  in  Cornwall,  about 
1292),  the  names  are  corrupted  a»  foUuws ; — 

"  ■  But  or  Guy  went  that  man  him  toldic, 
Tliat  the  King  was  in  cases  colcle. 
The  King  nT  Dcnmarkc,  UnnvlDcAt^, 
And  the  King  of  Norway,  ConelocAej 

•  TTie  italics  are  the  present  ■writer'8.     They  show  the  letter- 
tha^  by  which  the  transformation  under  notice  ia  efTcctcd. 


92 


ON    HAVELOK    THE    DANE. 


Both  he  come  into  this  land«. 

With  doughty  knLghtes  a  thousanctc/ — Sign.  Hb.  iii  .6. 

"And  below : — 

"  ■  And  King  Athelstane  B.wor«  than. 
If  Colbraiid  overcEime  his  man, 
He  and  nil  his  lynagc, 
Should  doe  King  Heneloc*  homage.' — Sigq.  U,  I. 

"In  a  MS.  English  Chronicle,  HarL  63,  which  we  sliall 
again  have  occasion  to  refer  to,  the  Danish  king  who  brought 
over  Colbmnd,  a.d.  927*  is  called  Gaufride  (the  (juthfrith  of 
the  Saxon  Chronicle).  *  And  Athelstone  lay  at  VVychestre, 
and  the  King  of  Denmarke  sent  ynto  hym  an  harowde  of 
Afmes  to  wittej  wheder  he  wold  fynde  a  man  to  £ghte  w* 
Colbrande  for  the  riigh[t]e  of  the  Kyngdom  of  Northumbr, 
that  the  Daynes  had  claymed  byfore  by  the  title  of  Kyng 
HaueloA^e,  that  wedded  Goldesburghej  the  Kynge's  daughter 
of  Northutnbr'  (f.  19)." 

In  speaking  of  those  who  may  feel  disposed  to  Iden- 
tify Havelok  and  Aniaf,  Sir  Frederic  Madden  abstains 
from  saying  what  his  own  disposition  may  be.  By 
supplying,  however,  the  very  relevant  facts  with  which 
he  accompanies  his  suggestion,  he  seems,  in  the  mind 
of  the  present  writer,  to  have  established  an  identity  of 
some  kind ;  or,  if  the  term  identity  be  exceptionable, 
a  confusion  which  looks  like  one.  He  also  points  out 
the  bearings  of  the  name  Aniaf  Cwiran,  who,  accord^ 
ing  to  the  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle^  a.  d.  949,  ravaged 
Northumberland — Northumberland^  which  the  MS. 
Chronicle  of  the  foregoing  extract  particularly  connects 
with  the  name  of  Hanelok, 

In  explanation  of  the  confusion,  I  think  that  one 
(perhaps,  both)  of  the  letter- changes  in  question  is 
due  to  an  error  of  transcription,  or  a  clerical  error 
— by  which  I  mean  that  the  change  is  one  of  writing 


1 


ON    HATELOK    TUB    DANE.  93 

rather  than  of  language.  I  also  think  that  when  the 
names  Anlaf  {Anelaphits)  and  Havelok  came  together 
in  one  narrative  the  confusion  took  place — confusion 
which  was  heightened  by  the  fact  of  Anlaf  being  also 
Anlaf  Owtran,  Cuaran,  or  Curan — confusion  which 
went  further  when  Havelok  became,  as  in  the  French 
poem,  Havelok  CStaran — confusion  which  attained  its 
maximum  when  the  lover  of  Argentile  became,  simply, 
Curan. 

However,  although  this  is  my  opinion,  I  do  not  pro- 
fess to  see  my  way  to  the  exact  details  of  the  change. 
I  am  only  satisfied  that  it  is  out  of  some  change  or 
other,  between  Anlaf  Cwiran  and  Havelok,  that  what 
we  inay  call  the  Curan  element  of  the  story,  has  origi- 
nated. As  far  as  tbe  name  goes,  it  is  an  excrescence ; 
prominent  in  the  French  poem  and  in  the  ballad  of 
Warner,  but  foreign  to  the  English  romance  as  well 
as  to  the  Grimsby  legends.  As  a  name,  however,  it 
is  eminently  suggestive ;  so  much  so  that  the  limits 
of  the  present  paper  are  far  too  short  to  allow  us  to 
follow-up  its  history  to  the  fountain.  There  is,  pro- 
bably, a  confusion  amongst  the  Curans — as  suck :  I 
also  think  that,  word  for  word,  the  modem  Irish  name 
Curran  is  this  same  Cwiran,  Cuaran,  and  Curan.  Upon 
the  Irish  names,  however,  in  Scandinavian  stories,  more 
may  be  said  on  another  occasion. 

I  now  leave  the  name  Curan,  and  pass  into  the  ob- 
scure domain  peopled  by  the  heroes  of  Beowulf;  in 
doing  which  I  trace  the  streams  of  fiction  to  a  higher 
level,  and  possibly  approach  the  springs  from  which 
they  flow.  What  has  been  hitherto  suggested  has  no 
great  pretensions  to  novelty.  Upon  the  identity  of 
Havelok  and  Anlaf,  Sir  Frederic  (as  we  have  seen) 


94 


ON     HAVELOK    THE    DANE, 


I 

I 


abstains  from  an  opinion.  That  the  four  accounts, 
however,  of  Havelok  the  Dane  in  English,  of  Havelok 
le  Daness  in  French,  of  Argenlile  and  Curan,  and  of 
tlie  Grimsby  legend  are  essentially  one,  is  a  doctrine 
which,  along  with  others,  the  present  writer  reasonably 
maintains— perhaps,  assumes  as  a  matter  of  course. 
This  being  the  case,  it  behoves  us,  before  we  go 
further^  to  look  back  ;  and  that  with  the  special  ob- 
ject of  taking  a  measure  of  the  extent  to  which  stories 
may  be  changed.  Is  it  too  much  to  say  that  one  may 
be  converted  into  another?  If  so,  where  is  the  iden- 
tity ?  What  are  tlie  proofs  oi  it  ?  Names  go  for  but 
little.  Has  not  Goldborough  become  Argentile,  and 
Havelok  Curan,  or  vice  versd  ?  And  will  the  changes 
stop  here?  What  if  men  become  women,  and  things 
persons?  We  can  answer  for  no  man's  identity,  and  for 
no  woman's  either.  When  we  get  into  Fairy-land,  we 
cannot  even  answer  for  the  sexes.  I  will  not  say  that 
Argentile  may  not  have  begun  her  career  as  a  character 
in  fiction,  as  a  King  of  Sweden.  Mr.  Kemble,  in  his 
notes  on  Beowulf,  has  to  remark  tiiat  the  HoUnga  which 
some  of  his  predecessors  had  made  the  name  of  a  wo- 
raan>  was  "  not  a  lady,  but  an  adverb."  In  the  Art  of 
Pluck,  one  of  the  candidates  inquires  whether  *'Pro- 
linus  is  an  adverb  or  a  sea-god,"  To  retail  this  as 
would-be  wit,  is  a  flippancy  ;  to  give  it  as  a  sample  of 
the  sort  of  confusion  which  the  comparative  mytholo- 
gist  has  to  deal  with,  and  can  often  explain,  is  a  neces- 
sary preliminary  to  his  investigations. 

Before  we  deal  with  Beowulf  there  are  several  such 
preliminaries. 

In  the  first  place,  a  given  story  might  go  through 
three  or  four  languages.     There  was  the  Anglo-Saxon, 


ON    HAVELOK    THE    DAXE. 


95 


I 


the  Danish  and  Swedish,  the  British,  the  Irish,  and 
the  Latin.  There  was  occasionally  a  German,  often  a 
Trench  medium. 

ITiough  we  must  remember  this,  we  must  not  pre- 
sume on  it.     It  will  not  prove  anything  and  everything. 
^  special  fact  connected  with  it  is  of  far  more  import- 
.fince.     Most  proper  names  had  two  forms  (at  least); 
•«2ine  in  Anglo-Saxon,  theotherin  Norse,  Scandinavian, 
^t  Danish.     Aniaf'm  Anglo-Saxon,  is  Olafin  Danish  ; 
^orm  in  Banish,  is  Gormttnd  and   Werinund,  etc.,  in 
^^qglo-Saxon.    In  Ingnlphus  we  find,  "Rex  Godrum 
•^quera  nos  Gurmund  vocamus."  ^'Gudrun,  qucra  nostri 
^Jurmundum  vocant  "  (William  of  Malmesbury). 

Next,  avast  mass  of  fiction,  partly  invented,  partly 
■^developed  by  confusion,  partly  inferential,  mixes  itself 
"^rlh  all  early  history,  so-called.     The  special  relations 
■«Df  Beowulf  are  with  the  genealogies  of  the  Mercian 
^ings.    There  was  a  King  Ofia,  whose  kingdom  was 
iUercia,  and  whose  date  the  eighth  century.  But  there 
is  another  Offa,  who  is  no  historical  personage  at  all. 
"^e  shall  see  that  the  accounts  of  these  two  entities  are 
aniseed  together.    Meanwhile,  the  least  historical  of  the 
^wo  is  Norse  as  well  as  English.     Garraund,  or  Wer- 
»uund,  is  the  head  of  the  family,  the  patriarch  of  the 
Jtedigree.     He  always  precedes,  and  never  follows  an 
Offa.     In  Beowulf  he  is  Offa's  uncle  ;  in  the  Danish 
and  Angle  genealogies,  his  father — also  his  predecessor 
on  the  throne.  But  this  i.s  not  the  only  element  of  con- 
fusion.    Offa,  the  son  of  Werniund,  in  one  account,  is 
Ijorn  blind,  and  remains  so  until  hla  seventh  year  ;  he  is 
also  born  dumb,  and  remams  so  until  his  thirtieth  year. 
Being,  however,  roused  by  fhe  fear  of  being  excluded 
from  the  succession  at  a  time  when  the  king  of  the 


96 


ON    MAVELOK    THE    DANR. 


Saxons  was  threateiiinig  his  falher  with  an  invasion,  he 
recovered  both  speech  and  sight.  So,  at  least,  it  stands 
in  Lappenberg ;  though  it  is  hard  to  see  how  the  two 
recoveries  could  be  siraultaneous.  This  is  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  OfFa  Wermunding.  But  the  Danish  Wermun- 
dinp;  is  born  with  the  use  of  his  eyes.  In  compensa- 
tion, however,  he  is  the  son  of  a  blind  father,  and,  in 
Denmark,  it  is  Wermcud  who  cannot  see.  Offa,  mean- 
while, like  his  Anglo-Saxon  equivalent,  is  dumb. 

Offa,  in  respect  to  his  other  connections,  is,  in  Beo- 
wulf, the  kinsman  of  one  Heraing,  an  unknown,  or,  at 
least,  an  obscure  hero.  In  the  Norse  genealogies  he  is 
succeeded  by  Dan,  the  eponymus  of  Denmark,  and  one 
of  the  most  mythic  of  all  mythological  personages. 
The  OfFa,  however,  of  Beowulf  is  a  brave  warrior,  and 
Hretbel,  unmentioned  in  the  Norse  genealogies,  is  the 
father  of  three  sons,  Herebald,  H^tbcyn,  and  the  im- 
portant Iligelac.  He  is  also,  inferentially,  the  brother 
of  one  Swerting;  inasmuch  as  his  son  Higelac  is  called 
Swerting's  nephew.  We  are  specially  warned  by  Mr, 
Kemble,  to  whom  these  pedigrees  are  chiefly  due, 
against  confounding  Swerting,  the  uncle  of  Hlgelac, 
with  the  Swerting  who  killed  King  Froda  IV.- — King 
Froda  IV.  being,  if  not  quite  so  mythic  as  Dan,  nearly 
so, 

Proceeding  with  the  history  of  the  three  sons  of 
Hrethel,  we  find  that  Herebald  is  accidentally  killed 
by  his  brother  Hnethcyn,  who  divides  the  kingdom 
between  himself  and  Higelac.  Hietheyn  is  himself 
killed  in  a  battle  against  the  Swedes,  and  Higelac  re- 
mains sole  ruler.  He  is  destined,  however,  to  fall  by 
the  hands  of  the  Frisians,  and  is  succeeded  by  his  son 
Hardred,  who  falls  in  a  battle  against  the  Swedes,  and 


ON    HWELOK    THE    DANE.  97' 

is  succeeded  by  Beowulf,  the  hero  of  the  poem,  of  the 
family  of  Wcegmund  (and  as  such  a  Wsgrnundiog 
rather  than  a  Wermunding)  who  is  the  husband  of 
Higelac's  sister,  but  who  dies  childless,  leaving  Wig- 
laf  the  son  of  Wihstan  as  his  successor.  I  think  it 
highly  probable  that  this  Wiglaf  is  the  Wihllaeg  of  the 
Mercian  genealogies,  upon  which  Mr.  Thorpe,  in  a 
note  to  Lappenberg,  remarks,  that,  however  much  the 
severat  pedigrees  of  the  kings  of  Mercia  may  vary  in 

gard  to  other  names,  they  all  agree  in  respect  to 
"Wihtlaeg,  Wermund,  and  Oifa.* 

Hrethel,  as  has  been  stated,  is  believed  to  be,  word 

irfor  word,  Edel.  Wermand  =  Garmund=Gonn=Grim 

<word  for  word)  is  so  far  connected  with  Grim  in  his 

attributes,  that  he  belongs  to  a  Danish  as  well  as  to 

»Ti  English  story,  that  story  containing,  in  Beowulf,  an 

Mx^elac^  in  the  Grimsby  legends,  etc.,  a  Havelok.     He 

18  not  Higelac's  father  ;  neither  ie  Grim  Havelok's. 

They  both,  however,  belong  to  the  same  tale;  and  in 

iolh  Havelok  and  Beowulf  there  is  the  account  of  an 

exposure  on  the  sea. 


r 


"BEOWULF. 

"Lo  !  we  have  learned  by  tradition  the  majesty  of  the  Gar- 
Uanes,  of  the  mighty  Kings  in  days  of  yore,  how  the  noble 
men  perfected  valour.  Oft  did  Scyld  the  son  of  Scef  tear 
ttie  mead-thrones  away  from  the  hosts  of  his  foes,  from  many 
tnbes;  th^,  Earl  terrified  them,  after  he  first  was  found  an 
oulcaat.  He  therefore  abode  in  comfort,  he  waxed  under 
the  welkin,  ho  Aoumhed  with  dignities,  until  each  one  of  the 
nirounditig  peoples  over  the  whale'a  path  must  obey  him, 
man  pay  him  tribute.    That  was  &  good  King  !   To  him  was 

*  Tntnalalion  of  Lappenlierg's  England  under  Ihe  Anglo-Saxon 
^|s,vd.i.  p.  228. 
VOL.  VII.  H 


98  ON    HAVELOK    THE    DANK. 

afterwards  offspring  bom,  young  in  his  dwelling-places,  whom 
God  sent  to  the  people  for  their  comfort.  He  knew  the  evil 
need  which  they  before  had  suiFered  for  a  long  while,  when 
they  were  princeless:  to  him  un  this  account  the  Lord  of 
life,  wielder  of  glory,  gave  worldly  prosperity,  Beowulf  was 
famous;  widely  spread  the  glory  of  Scyld's  offspring  in  the 
divided  lands.  So  shall  a  war-prince  work  with  benefits^with 
prudent  gifts  of  money,  while  yet  in  his  father's  support,  that 
to  himself  in  turn  in  hia  old-age,  welcome  comrades  may  re- 
sort, then,  when  war  may  come  upon  him :  supported  by  his 
people  a  man  shall  flourish  in  any  tribe,  with  praiseworthy 
deeds.  At  his  appointed  time  then  Scyld  departed,  very 
decrepit,  to  go  into  the  peace  of  the  Lord ;  they  then  his 
dear  comrades  bore  him  out  to  the  shore  of  the  sea,  as  he 
himself  requested,  the  while  that  he,  the  friend  of  the  Scyld- 
ings,  the  beloved  chieftain,  had  power  with  his  words  j  long 
he  owned  it!  Then  upon  the  beach  stood  the  ringed-prnwed 
ship,  the  vehicle  of  the  noble,  shining  like  ice,  and  ready  to 
Bet  out.  They  then  laid  down  the  dear  prince,  the  distributer 
of  rings,  in  the  bosom  of  the  ship,  the  mighty  ore  beside  the 
mast;  there  was  much  of  treasures,  of  ornaments,  brought 
from  afar.  Never  heard  I  of  a  coinelicr  ship  having  been 
adorned  with  battle  weapons  and  with  war  weeds,  with  bills 
and  mailed  coats.  Upon  his  bosom  lay  a  multitude  of  trea- 
sures which  were  to  depart  afar  with  hira  into  the  possession 
of  the  flood.  They  furnished  him  not  less  with  offerings, 
with  mighty  wealth,  than  those  had  done  who  in  the  begin- 
ning sent  him  forth  in  his  wretchedness,  alone  over  t]ie  waters. 
Moreover  they  set  up  for  him  a  golden  «nsign,  high  over- 
head; they  let  the  deep  sea  hear  him;  they  gave  him  to 
he  ocean.  Sad  was  their  spirit,  mournful  their  mood.  Men 
linow  not  in  sooth  to  say,  (men  wise  of  counsel,  or  any  men 
under  the  heavens,)  who  received  the  freight." 

This  gives  us  three  fabulous  personages, — Sceaf, 
Scyld,  and  Beowulf:  so  related  to  each  other  genealo- 
gically, that  Beowulf  is  a  Scylding,  and  Scyld  a  Scefin^. 


OH     HAVg|.OK    THE    PANB. 


k 


t 


|They  are  Danes  mther  than  Angles.     The  difference 
I  "both  in  blood  and  date  between  Beowulf  the  Scylding, 
who  is  a  purely  mythic  being,  with  no  conditions  of  ei- 
ther time  or  place,  and  Beowulf  the  WEegmunding,  who 
is  both  a  king  and  the  successor  of  a  king,  commands 
our  attention ;  thoughnot  as  a  primary  object.  It  mere- 
ly gives  us  another  specimen  of  confusion.     In  Sceaf 
we  must  look  for  something  else.     This  name  appears 
not  only  in  the  Danish,  but  in  the  Lombard  legends. 

Sigehere  longest 
The  Sea- Danes  ruled, 
Ilnxf  the  Kw:ing9, 
Sceq/tbc  Lotigobarcls. 

Traveiter'aSon^,  t.  64. 

Hildeburg,  in  Beowulf,  is  a  Hoeing  by  birth,  a  queen 
of  Friesland  by  marriage.  Word  for  word,  Hoeing  is 
ra  good  grounds  believed  to  be  Cfiauci :  so  that  in 
wedding  of  Hildeburg  by  Fin  Folcwalding,  the  king  of 
the  Frisians,  we  have  the  union  of  two  closely  allied 
populations.  Meanwhile,  Hnief,  who  on  good  grounds 
is  considered  the  eponymus  of  Hanover,  is  Hildeburg's 
WD.  Now  the  name  which  next  to  her  husband's  and 
her  son's  is  most  especially  connected  with  Hildeburh's, 
is  that  of  Hengest. 

In  the  notice  of  the  sons  of  Hrethel  it  was  stated 
Ihl  Heetbcyn  had  to  deiiend  himself  against  a  king  of 
Siweden,  that  he  did  so  unsuccessfully,  that  he  was 
killed  in  battle,  and  that  Uigelac  succeeded.  Now  the 
name  of  this  victorious  king  of  the  Swedes  was,  in 
Aflglo^Saxon,  Ongeontheow,  in  Norse,  Angantyr.  He 
i^in  bis  turn,  killed  in  a  battle  against  Higelac. 

That,  word  for  word,  Higelac  is  Haveiok  has  already 
Wn  stated.     It  may  almost  be  said  that  the  former  is 

h2 


ON    BAVELOK    THE    DANE. 


the  Swedish  form  of  the  latter.     It  may  be  added  that, 
in  this  similarity,  we  have,  if  not  the  main  fact  which 
connects  the  poems  on  Havelok  the  Dane  with  Beo- 
wulf, the  fact  which  first  raised  the  presumption  in 
favour  of  a  connection  between  them.     How  slight 
this  connection  need  be  has  already  been  shown.     Let 
Beowulf,  as  a  poem,   be  ever  so  unlike  the  tale  of 
Grim,  it  is  still  as  like  to  it  as  the  tale  of  Grim  is  like 
the  ballad  of  Argentile  and  Curan.     Nor  is  this  simi- 
larity, such  as  it  is,  confined  to  the  mere  word,     The 
Higelac  of  Beowulf  is  of  the  line  of  Gormund,  or  Wer- 
mund,  in  whose  history  comes  the  strange  account  of 
Sceaf — Sceaf,  who  agrees  with  Grim,  in  being  associated 
with  a  tale  of  the  sea.    Hence,  both  Havelok  and  Hige- 
lac agree  in  a  vague  connection  with  a  man  of  the  sea, 
and  a  man  named  Gormund,  Gorm,  or  Grim.  Upon  the 
coincidence  between  the  fenny  character  of  the  county 
of  Lincoln  and  the  fact  of  the  chief  events  of  Beo- 
wulf having  their  venue  in  a  fen,  I  lay  little  stress: 
though,  at  the  same  time,  I  am  not  inclined  to  over- 
look it  altogether.     That,  word  for  word,  I/ildeburg  is 
Goldborough,  NrethelEdil,  and  (.stranger  stdl)  Ongeon- 
theow  (or  Angaytyr^  as  he  is  in  Norse)  is  Argentile,  I 
venture  to  guess.     With  this,  too,  I  leave  the  part  of 
the  subject  hitherto  under  notice  ;  repeating  that  1  do 
not  say  that  these  resemblances  are  ctose  and  conclu- 
sive.    I  only  express  my  decided  belief,  founded  not 
upon  a  prion  grounds,  but  upon  a  somewhat  wide  in- 
duction from  similarly  transformed  legends,  that  they 
are  not  accidental. 

As  far  as  the  history  of  a  fiction  is  concerned,  our 
researches  are  approaching  their  conclusion.  The  ori- 
gin of  the  greater  part  of  Beowulf  is  obscure.     Yet  its 


ON    HAVflLOK    THE    DANE. 


101 


I 


t 


r 


ramifications  are  numerous.  The  points  where  it 
touches  the  legends  of  Grim  and  Havelok  are  the  ones 
which,  in  the  present  paper,  have  commanded  oiar 
chief  attention.  It  has,  however,  been  shown,  by  the 
way»  that  there  were  other  points  of  contact,  leading 
to  the  genealogies  of  the  Mercian  kings,  and  the  pedi- 
gree of  Offa.  TIjese,  however,  we  pass  over,  for  the 
present,  sicca  pede.  Neither  is  much  said  about  the 
extent  to  which  the  story  of  Sceaf  is  Longobardj  or 
Lombard,  as  well  as  Norse  and  Angle.  The  question 
that  commands  attention  is  the  extent  to  which  the 
poem  i9y  in  any  part,  historical.  Fiction  as  it  is  for  the 
most  part,  it  may  still  have  a  nucleus  of  fact.  L-etus 
note,  then,  the  narneHigelac,  and  let  us  remember  that 
the  hero  who  bore  it  died  in  a  battle  against  the 
Priesians.  Let  us  now  take  the  following  extract  from 
Gregory  of  Tours  :  — 

"  In  illo  tempore  (a.d.  515)  Dani,  cum  rege  suo,  nomine 
i'hochUaieOi  euro  navale  hoste  per  altum  mare,  Gallias  appe- 
lint,  Theuf^erici,  paguni  AttuarioK,  vel  aliQs,  devastantca 
altjue  captivantes,  plenas  naves  de  captivis  hahentes,  sito 
mire  IntraDteSf  rex  illoruni  ad  litus  maris  resedit"  (Greg. 
Turon.  c.  19). 

The  district  upon  which  Chochilaichus  descended 
belonged  to  one  of  more  obscure  divisions  of  the  Ger- 
man name ;  and  one  of  which  the  brief  history  deserves 
a  passing  notice.    It  was  the  district  of  the  Chaltuarii. 
Tacitus  gives  us  no  such  name  ;  the  doctrine  that  the 
t«rm  is,  word  for  word,  Cha^uarii,  being  exceptionable. 
Altuarii,  however,  is  found  in  Velleius  Paterculus,  and 
XaTTwaptot  in    Strabo,    whose   notice,   unfortunately, 
begins  and  ends  with  the  name.      Not  so,  however, 
that  of  Paterculus,  which  tells  us  that  soon  after  Tibe- 


102 


ON    HAVELOK  THE    DANE. 


rius  had  entered  Gern:iany,  he  subdued  the  Caninifates, 
the  Attuarii,  and  tiie  Briicteri,— the  Canifates  in  the 
province  of  Holland,  the  Biucteri  between  the  Ruhr 
and  Lippe,  the  Attuarii  not  far  off,  and  in  a  loca- 
lity which,  becoming  clearer  as  we  proceed,  ends  in  be- 
ing the  district  about  Geizefurt  on  the  Niera,— "Me- 
Tnorato  Ansfrido^  in  page  Hattuarimd  et  in  villtL  quae 
vocatur  Geizefurt,  supra  fluvium  Nerse'^  (Cod.  Laures- 
heim.  q.  25).  Also,  "  Quod  trado  res  proprietates 
mesE  in  pago  Jlattuaria,  in  Odeheimero  Marca,  in  villu 
qu£e  dicitur  Geizefurt,  qure  sita  est  supra  fluvium 
Nersa,*'*  (ibid,  n.  33).  It  was  a  frontier — and  March, 
— a  March  on  the  confines  of  Saxony ;  the  Saxons 
being  always  in  a  state  of  chronic  hostility  to  the 
Franks.  "  Sax  ones  vastaverunt  terram  Cknttuario- 
rum"  (Annal.  S.  Amandi), — "terram  Hatuariorum" 
(Annal.  Tilian.). — "terrara  Hazzoanontm** (Ann.  Ful- 
denses),  "terra  Hattuariorum  k  Saxonibus  depopulata 
est*'  (Gesta  AbbatOs  FantanelleneDsis).  Now,  as  were 
the  Saxons,  so  were  the  Danes — the  Saxons  on  the 
land,  the  Danes  on  the  sea.  The  Danish  attacks,  how- 
ever, give  us  the  fact  that  has  the  most  bearing  upon 
the  present  researches.  A  contemporary  writer  of  a 
not  very  distant  locality,  Gregory  of  Tours,  tells  us 
that  a  Dane  named  Chochilaichus,  attacked  one  of 
the  pagi  of  Theodoric  the  Frank,  the  father  of  Theude- 
bert,  and  was  killed  in  the  country  of  the  HattTiarii. 
Now,  word  for  word,  Chattuarii,  HattnaTu,  Hazzoarii, 
Attuarii,  and  (in  a  still  more  modified  form)  Hatteri, 
18  Hetwfere,  just  as  truly  as  the  Latin  Cantuarii  and 
Vectuarii  are  the  Anglo-Saxon  Cantvitere  and  Wiht- 
wfETe,  i.  e.  inhabitants  of  Kent  and  the  Isle  of  WiEjht 

*  See  Zews.v.Chatluarii  (p.  337). 


ON    HATSLOK    TRA    DANE. 


t08 


I 

i 

I 


I 


(Vpcticola)  :  and  Hefware  h  a  form  that  we  find  in 
bolh  the  Traveller's  Song  and  Beowulf. 

This,  then,  is  our  evidence  for  believing  (as  has  been 
f^enerally  admitted)  thatj  word  for  wordj  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  Higelac,  the  Norse  Huglekr,  Danish  Huhlek, 
is  the  Latin  Chochilaichus,  and,  also,  what  is  of  more 
importance,  that,  however  fabulous  the  main  part  of 
liigelac's  story,  as  told  in  Beowulf,  may  be,  his  death 
represents  a  small  nucleus  of  a  real  history,  as  well  as 
the  actual  descent  uf  Chochiliachus  upon  a  portion 
of  King  Theodoric's  Empire,  as  recorded  hy  so  good 
an  authority  for  a  contemporary  event  as  Gregory  of 
Tonrs. 

Taking  this  Id  its  barest  form,  it  gives  us  an  earlier 
date  than  is  usually  admitted  for  the  JN'orse  invasions 
of  the  parts  south  of  Scandinavia.  A  Norse  descent 
ijpon  the  coasts  of  Holland  it  givess  us  ;  even  if  it  gives 
UB  nothing  else.  But  it  may  be  added  that  it  makes 
similar  descents  upon  Briiain  probable.  For  these 
what  spots  likelier  than  the  parts  about  the  Huraber? 
But,  word  for  word,  Chochiluicus  is  allowed  to  be 
Higelac.  Let  Higelttc=Havelok,  and  the  probability 
of  an  early  Nofse  invasion  is  increased.  Let  there  be 
some  relation  between  Havelok  and  Go-nn=Grim ;  and 
let  there  be  some  relation  between  Gorm  and  Grimsby 
-^Gorvi's  Town.  I  do  not  say  the  one  must  be  exactly 
lliat  of  father  and  son,  nor  yet  that  the  latter  be  that 
between  the  founder  and  tlie  town  founded.  I  only 
say  that  some  relations  are  likely. 

if  so,  there  may  be,  after  all,  some  nucleus  of  truth 
in  the  Grimsby  fictions.  I  have  neither  denied  nor 
doubted  this.  What  I  have  inapugned  are  the  details. 
What  I  have  opposed  is  the  doctrine  that  the  so-called 


404 


ON    HA.VELOK    THS    DANE. 


tradition  is  a  tradition  pure  and  simple,  a  tradition 

untDoditied  by  inference,  and  unsustained  by  legend. 

li'  so,  Grimsby  is  an  older  town  than  Its  legend  inake3 
it. 

Was  Grimsby  its  only  name  ?  Probably  not.  It 
was  a  Danish  town  on  English  ground :  the  Danish 
and  English  languages  being  two.  But  it  was  not  an 
English  name.  No  Englishman  called  Grorm,  Gorm. 
No  Englishman  called  a  town  a  bi;.  The  Danes  did 
this :  the  English  did  not.  The  English  called  Gorni, 
Gormund,  or  something  like  it.  The  English  called  a 
btf  a  toum.  Hence,  I  think  it  probable  that  the  place 
had  two  names;  Grimsby  in  Danish,  Gormanstun  or 
Gormansted  in  Anglo-Saxon, 

This  is  so  purely  conjectural  that  it  is  likely  that  it 
will  never  be  either  proved  or  disproved.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  ia  a  probability  which  should  be  borne  in  mind. 
With  two  of  our  towns  ending  in  by,  the  fact  that,  be- 
sides their  Danish,  they  had  an  English  name  also,  is 
known  from  testimony.  Whitby  was  iSireones-AflZcA; 
Derby  was  North  We  or  thig  in  Anglo-Saxon.  This  (as 
what  has  just  been  staled)  we  know  from  testimony. 
But  if  the  testimony,  which  occurs,  in  both  cases^  as 
an  obiter  dictum,  had  been  wanting  ? 

And  here  the  chief  question  comes  to  a  close :  the 
question  as  to  how  far  Havelok  the  Dane  was  Higetac: 
and,  if  he  were,  in  what  sense.  They  both  seem  to 
have  come  out  of  Ckochiiaicus  ,■  Chochilaicus  being  an. 
historical  person  of  the  seventh  century.  If  so,  the 
history  of  the  name  has  been  traced  as  far  upwards 
as  is  possible.  But  Chochilaicus,  even  as  Higelac,  is 
transformed  into  something  very  different  from  the 
enemy  of  Theodoric  ;  whilst  Higelac  himself  is  but  a 


ON    HAVBLOK   THE    DANE.  105   - 

small  part  of  Beowulf.  Of  Beowulf  a  small  portion 
only  enters  into  Havelok  the  Dane;  overlaid  with 
much  extraneous  matter ;  and  of  Havelok  the  Dane, 
a  remnant  goes  to  Argentile  and  Curan.  There  is  a 
lai^  amount  of  tran^ormation  here.  It  is,  however, 
only  a  fraction  of  what  must  be  investigated  when  we 
take  a  fiction  with  all  its  points  of  contact.  Have  we 
not,  even  in  the  previous  sketch,  been  obliged  to  take 
c(^^iizance  of  the  pedigree  of  the  Kings  of  Mercia,  as 
connected  with  the  name  Gormund.  Gorm,  or  Grim; 
and  might  not  almost  every  other  name  in  any  of  the 
poems  under  notice  have  led  us  in  other  directions, 
to  new  affinities  ?  It  might :  so  numerous  are  the  ra< 
mificatioDB  of  fiction,  and  so  obscure  their  transforma- 
tions. Even  the  possible  details  connected  with  the 
name  Havelok  are  far  from  exhausted. 


IT.— SUPPLEMENTAL    NOTES    ON    ST.   GEORGE    THE 
MARTYR,  AND  ON  GEOBGE  THE   ARIAN   BISHOP. 

Ht   JOHN    U04^G,  ESQ..,  M.A.,   F.it.B.j  BON.  FOB.  SEC.   B..&.V., 

(Read  November  2l8t.  ISSO.) 


Havin6  in  a  former  memoir  proved,  from  an  ancient 
Greek  inscription  still  extant  upon  a  church  at  Ezra, 
the  former  Zorava,  in  the  south  of  Syria,  that  George 
the  Martyr  and  George  the  Arian  Bishop  of  Alexandria 
were  not,  as  Gibbon  and  most  writers  after  him  have 
asserted,  identical,  I  now  resume  the  subject. 

Two  or  three  learned  antiquaries  of  the  two  last  cen- 
turies, doubting  their  identity,  were  desirous  of  esta- 
blishing for  the  gallant  and  patron  saint  of  England 
a  fairer  fame,  and  of  assigning  to  him  a  title  for  purity, 
integrity,  and  valour,  such  as  became  a  defender  of  the 
cross  and  a  "soldier  of  Christ;"  but  they  certainly 
failed  in  having  actually  discovered  any  pomiive  evi- 
dence of  their  non-identity.  Of  these  the  most  dis- 
tinguished was  the  Rev.  Dr.  Peter  Heylyn,  a  preben- 
dary of  Westminster,  who  wrote  a  well-known  book, 
entitled  'The  Historie  of  that  most  famous  Saint  and 
Souldier  of  Christ  Jesus,  St.  George  of  Cappadocia/ 
It  passed  through  two  editions;  and  the  second,  bear- 


I 


ST.    GHORGB    THE    HAKTYK. 


107 


ing  the  date  of  1633>  which  alone  I  have  seen^  is  dedi- 
cated to  no  less  a  personage  than  "  the  most  high  and 
mighty   Prince  Charles  (I.)»  King  of  Great  Britain." 
JVleo  another   learned   writer,  the    Rev.   Dr.   Samuel 
IPegge,  read  in   1777  to  the  Society  of  Antiquaries  of 
locdon,— whose  anniversary  is  held  on  St.  George's 
day,  and  whose  coat-of-arms  is  St.  George's  Grecian 
i*'bloodie  croHse"  upon  a  white  field,- — an  able  paper 
"to  that  Society,  in  which  be  combated  Dr.  Pettingal's 
supposition  that  the  "George  of  England"  was  en- 
tirely of  an  allegorical  nature ;  and  also  Mr.  Byrom's 
notion,  that  St,  Gregory  the  Great,  Bishop  of  Rome, 
End  not  St.  George,  was  the  real  patron  saint  of  the 
^English.     Indeed,  Dr.  John  Pettingal,  in  a  work  also 
dedicated  to  the  then  King  of  Great  Britain  (George 
JI.).  m  the  year  L753,  says,  "  Whether  our  St.  George 
:  "Was  the  Arian,  or  whether  he  was  a  real  person  or  not, 
I  is  a  matter  not  settled  among  the  learned."' 

But  against  this  latter  supposition  Dr.  S.  Pegge  has 
correctLy  written,  "We  may  depend  apon  it»  that 
though  at  this  distance  of  time  we  can  recover  so  few 
particulars  of  St.  George's  story,  and  can  arrive  at  so 
little  certainty  about  the  circumstances  of  it,  yet  the 
adventurers  In  the  Crusades  undoubtedly  regarded  him 
OS  a  real  person,  a  most  glorious  and  illustrious  martyr. 
They  found  his  name  in  tlie  calendars  ;  they  met  with 
various  places  denominated  from  hira  ;  they  frequented 
ills  tomb  ;  they  heard  liim  invoked,  and  heard  much  of 
bis  apparitions  ;  Lhey  saw  churches  and  monasteries 
dedicated  to  him,  and  even  received,  as  they  thought, 
seasonable  and  special  assistance  from  heaven,  through 

1  Dissertetion  on  the  Original  of  the  Equestrian  Figure  of  St. 
George,  snil  of  the  Gaiter,  p.  33. 


108  ST.  GBOBOB   THE    HARTTB   AHD 

bis  mediation;  and  lastly,  they  mentioned  his  re- 
Uques."" 

Since  several  circumstances,  in  particular  the  want 
of  time,  prevented  me  from  completing  my  former  ac- 
count of  St.  George  in  so  full  a  manner  as  I  had  in- 
tended ;  I  therefore  purpose  to  supply,  in  the  present 
paper,  some  of  the  earliest  notices  respecting  these  two 
Georges,  who  have  been  so  frequently  confounded,  and 
in  fact  so  often  identified. 

Hrst,  as  regards  St.  George  the  Martyr. 

The  first  accurate  account — after  that  already  given 
(p.  31 1,  Vol.  VI.  Trans.  Eoy.  Soc.  lit.)  from  Eusebius. 
where,  as  I  have  Bu^;ested,  '*  Gorgonius  "  may  be  an 
error  for  "  Georgius '" — which  I  can  find  of  him,  is  in 
the  *  Chronicon  Paschale  ;'*  it  is  as  follows  : — 

a^  'OATMUXA'S. 

'Ttt.  Kapamv  -n  0,  km  Novftepuofov. 

"Etovs  ave  r^s  elf  Ovpavova  'ApoK^^p-ews  tov  Kvfuov,  eye- 
VCTO  Suoyftof  XpurruivaVf  km  tvXXoc  ifiOfTVpTjaav'  ev  oU 
€/MXpTVpij<r€  KM  6  oTfiot  Tetapytos. 

Translated  it  reads  thus : — 

"  266  Olympiad. 

*'  C^juu^,  Garinus  for  the  second  time,  and  Nu- 
merianus. 

"  In  the  year  255  of  the  Ascension  of  Our  Lord  into 
Heaven,  a  persecution  of  the  Ghristians  took  place, 
and  many  suffered  martyrdom  ;  among  whom  also  the 
Holy  Qeorge  was  martyred." 

■  '  Archseologia,  to),  t.  p.  5. 

'  The  extract  l^rom  Cedrenas,  given  at  p.  6  it^ra,  seeniB  to  confirm 
tbiB  saggeetioD. 

*  'Chronicon  Paschale,'  edit.  Da  Cangei  Hiat.  Byzant.  Script. 
vol.  xii.  p.  219.     I  haveuaed  the  Venetian  edition,  1729. 


OBOBOE   THE    ABIAN    BISHOP.  109 

We  find  from  the  *  Fasti  Consulares '  of  Almeloveen, 
that  in  a.d.  284,  or  p.n.c.  284,  Imp.  M.  Aurelius  Ca- 
rinuB  II.  and  M.  Aurelius  Numerianus  were  consuls 
before  "  Kal.  Mai." 

llie  266  Olympiad  corresponds  with  A.n.  285.  So 
to  255  years  after  Christ's  Ascension  must  be  added 
the  thirty-four  years  of  his  age,  which  would  make  the 
A.D.  =  289 ;  but  it  is  evident  that  the  author  of  this 
Chronicon  follows  those  chronologists  who  place  the 
birth  of  Christ  four  years  earlier,  consequently  the  a.d. 
would  be  285. 

Procopjus  is  the  first  historian  who  mentions  in  ex- 
press terms,  in  his  work  *I>e  ^Bdificiis*  (lib.  3,  cap.  4), 
"  George  the  Martyr,' — Feapyiot  6  Maprvp. 

The  next  mention  seems  to  be  that  of  Adamann,  or 
8t.  Adamnaftf  at  the  close  of  the  seventh  century,  who 
learnt  it  from  Bishop  Arculf  on  his  homeward  voyage 
from  the  Holy  Land.  This  Adamann  was  abbot  of  the 
monastery  of  Hii,  or  the  island  of  Icolmkill,  now  lona, 
in  the  Western  Sea  of  Scotland  ;  and  he  wrote  (about 
a.d.  670)  a  small  book,  'De  Situ  Terrae  Sanctae."*  In 
it  he  thus  says, — "  De  Sancto  Georgia  Martyre. — Ar- 
culfus,  homo  sanctus,  .  .  .  nobis  de  quodam  Martyre, 
Georgia  nomine,  narrationem  contulit,  quam  in  Con- 
stantinopolitana  urbe,  a  quibusdam  expertis  didicit 
civibus,  qui  hoc  modo  narrare  soliti  eidem  dicebant. 
In  Diospoli  (Lydda,  seu  Lod)  civitate,  cujusdam  Mar- 
tyris  Georgii  in  quadam  domo  statua  marmorea,"  etc., 
and  he  then  proceeds  to  recount  some  legends,  which 
I  here  omit. 

*  Adamanni  Scoto-Hiberni  Abbatia  celeberrimi,  de  Situ  Terr« 
Saactie,  cap.  iv.  lib.  3.  p.  107,  edit.  Jacob  Gretseri,  Ingolstadii, 
1619. 


BT.  OBORQE   THl    MAI 


rR    ANV 


Soon  after,  the  Venerable  Bede,  in  an  abstract  of  the 
same  narrative,  eatitled  '  De  Locis  Sanctis  Libellus,'* 
has  added  at  the  end  of  it  an  account  of  Arculf,  of  his 
travels,  and  of  his  stiip  having  been  driven  by  adverse 
winds  upon  the  Scotch  islet  where  Adamann  was  resi- 1 
dent, 

Again,  Bede  in  his  'Ephemeris'  (vol.  i.  p.  196),! 
places  in  the  month  oi  Aprilis, — "9  Calend.  Georgii] 
Martyris," — and  in  the  opposite  page  these  lines  oc*i 
cur, — 

"  Nona  docet  FortunDtumque  et  Achillicaiunctos, 
Hftc  ctiHTn  invicto  inunduTn  qui  snnguine  temni* 
Infinita  refers  Geort/i  Sanctc  trophffiti." 

The  *'9  Cal.  Maii  "  answers  to  April  23rd,  or  thej 
day  of  "  St,  George  the  Martyr." 

In  the  '  Acta  Sanctorum,'  Aprilis^  the  chapter  on] 
xxTii  April  begins, — 

"  S.  Fortunatus  )  „. 
S.Achilleus     jO^^^«"'. 
Martyies  Valentise  in  Gallia," 
which  explains  the  names  already  given  from  BedeT 
and  then  follows,  "De  S,  Georgio  Megalo-Martyre.i 
LyddiE,  seu  DiospoJi,  in  Palestina."      There  also  S.j 
Georgius  is  termed  Nieomediensis.     But  the  pages 
Papenbroch  are  so  intermixed  with  legends,  and  mat*] 
ters  relating  to  the  Arian  George  of  Alexandria,  that 
little  certain  or  definite  can  be  elicited  about  the  Mar- 
tyr St.  George  of  Syria  or  Palestine. 

Having  searched  many  of  the  Byzantine  and  other] 

■  Vetierabilift  Bcdte  Opera,  vol.  iii.  p.  371,  edit.  ColoD. 
pinffi,  1612. 

^  Act.  Stuict.,  Aprilis  (D.  FapenbrQchii) ,  vol.  iii,  pp.  100-163,^ 
Antwerp,  1675. 


OSOROB   THE   ARIAN    BISHOP.  Ill 

Greek  writers,  I  will  pass  on  to  what  T  have  discovered 
in  them  relative  to  our  Saint. 

Georgius  Cedrenus,^  a  monk  who  lived  in  the  eleventh 
century,  relates  in  his  Xuvtrh^  'Itn-opieav, — '  Synopsis  of 
Histories,' — that  in  the  reign  of  Diocletian  and  Maxi- 
mianus  Hercnlius  a  great  persecution  of  Christians 
occurred,  "  and  those  who  were  discovered  to  be  Chris- 
tians  were  compelled  to  sacrifice  to  the  demons.  On 
which  ac(K)unt  many  obtained  for  themselves  the  crown 
of  the  contest,  of  whom  were  .  .  .  Anthiraus  of  Nico- 
media,  and  Procopius,  and  George,  the  renowned  mar- 
tyrs.'*— Tovf  Se  Xpumavous  eupurnoftevovs  avtvyieafyaBtu  6v 
av  Tois  haifUHriy  hto  km  voXKot  tov  rfjs  d0\^€W9  av^f^aino 
are^tavov.  E^  &v  elai  .  .  .  *Av$ifio9  Nueofi/rjSeiaSt  km  Upo- 
KOTTtos,  Ktu  Fcwpyuis,  01  dolStfuji  fiaprvp€9.  This  account 
has  very  probably  been  derived  from  Eusebius's  eighth 
book  of  *  Ecclesiastical  History,'  chapter  6,  in  which 
the  martyrs  Anthimus,  Bishop  of  Nicomedia,  and  Gror- 
gonius  and  others  are  named.  Since,  however,  Ce- 
drenus  writes  the  latter  martyr  Fewpyios,  and  not  Fop- 
yoviot,  this  seems  to  confirm  my  supposition,  expressed 
in  my  former  paper,  that  the  latter  proper  name  has 
been  an  error  in  transcribing  for  the  former,  or  for 

Feapyios. 

And  the  learned  Greek  princess,  Anna  Comnena,* 
mentioning  the  KeXrol,  French,  or  rather,  Normans,  says, 
KarekBovrcs  els  7ov*Ia<f)a, — "They  came  to  Japha  (Joppa). 
Then  they  passed  from  thence  to  Ramel,  in  which  also 
the  great  martyr  George  bore  testimony  of  martyr- 
dom." Etra  eKcldev  Koreka^v  to  'Papte^,  ev  f)  koi  6  fj.eya- 
\ofidpTvs  Feiopyios  fiefuipTvpTjKe.     Ramel,  Ramys,  or  Ram- 

^  Byzant.  Script.  toI.  xv.  p.  209. 

'  Alexias,  lib.  xi.  p.  259,  vol.  xxvi.  Byzant.  Script. 


US 


8T,  GEORGE    THE    MARTYR    AND 


leli,  lies  OD  the  direct  road  leading  from  Joppa  to  Jeru- 
salem ;  and  I  have  before  shown  that  it  has  been  some- 
times  confounded  with  Lydda,  or  Ludd,  by  reason  of 
their  being  so  nearly  adjacent ;'"  and  this  is  the  case 
in  the  present  extract  from  Comnena- 

St.  George's  body  was  brought  from  Nicomedia, 
where  he  had  been  martyred^  to  Lydda,  his  native 
town,  and  interred  in  the  church  which  was  there  de- 
dicated to  him. 

As  the  '  Ecclesiastical  History '  of  Callistus  Nice- 
phorus  gives  an  ample  account  of  St.  George,  although 
mixed  with  a  legendary  story ;  and  as  the  work  is  only 
attainable  by  a  few,  I  think  it  better  (according  to  my 
usual  custom)  to  insert  the  original  Greek^  and  then 
add  a  translation  of  the  same. 

Toxrrois  Sij  toIs  y^avois^  ictu,  r^apyvoty  to  fiiya  rSm  a&Kff- 
rSiv  ovQp,a^  Ks^  rod  x^P^^  ^^^  fiapTvp<av  6  Kopv(f>aiot,  rolt 
vnsp  XptoToO  TTovoiF,  •yv7}<rkffvs  edepi^e  tovs  xapTrovs"^  &c  Kair- 
•iraBoKtas  yap  wv,  v^avias  ert.  icat  ayaXftanap  ttjp  otfnv'  Kot 
oirrrat  vavkotr  treptcrrfiptin'  toj*  irftf^oH-a,  yevyams  rots  vwtp 
XpUTTOV  a6\on  BfffiopTvpei'  eiret  yup  (rycr^f^e*s  ti^iprofiet 
fiikv  Satfiovas,  to  5g  twv  KpaTouincon  Zieirat^ev  aae^es,  -rrucpat 
Tivaf  lau  imepijivftt  itoXaaeit  vi^urraro'  ^vcrnjpfs  ftev  yap  avrov 
fiera  heap^i  itai  (fivXaKijv  Si€\dfi0auov'  elra  rtrav^  ttv/jos  kot- 
eijiXeyero'  ypox^  KareTftveTo-'  fii^eo-i  fieXrf^v  e/crefOMHiWos' 
TToXTuus  Se  aXKai!  fiif^avalv  trvvrpiffoftevos,  to  tvyeves  auTOV 
•jrapaarrjfia  TTfS  -^ir^/s  jwu  to  Tr}9  trvvauis  aveaioKfievov,  Mctuwf 
avf-heiKw'  ejTL  TOVTOts  TOP  TovyQijTos  I\vKepcov  jSouf  afiara' 
KOI  TTfv  j3atri\iBa  AXe^avbpau  TrpoiraKai  tqv  fiiov  oTroXtTroucrWi 
fvyv  P-otn),  Ttav  TQV  a&ov  irvdpkfpatp  ^^'/7^*  fco*  tiho*  avop\ 
Kots  eTfXevra  t^  fiiirfi. 

'"  Tranft.  Roy,  Soc,  Lit.  Vol.  VI.  p.  312,  and  note  14. 
"  Nic«pfaoH  Callisti   E^cleaiastica   Histona,  tom.   i.  lib.  vii.   eaj 
15,  edit.  Frodto  Bacsiu.     Par.  1630. 


GEORGE    TEE    ARIAN    BISHOP. 


113 


*'  In  those  times  also,  George, — a  great  name  among 
ihe  champions  and  the  leader  of  the  band  of  martyrs, — 
reaped  the  true  fruits  from  his  sufferings  for  Christ's 
sake,  For  being  from  Cappadocia^  when  still  a  young 
man ;  and  being  like  a  statue  m  appearance  ;  and  not 
yet  encircling  his  chin  witli  down,  bore  testimony  nobly 

f  by  his  contests  for  the  sake  of  Christ.  For  when  ap- 
pTchended,  he  reviled  the  demons,  and  he  derided  the 
impiety  of  the  rulers;  he  underwent  certain  bitter  and 
unnatural  punishments.  For  rasors  hacked  him  in 
chains  and  in  prison  ;  then  he  was  burnt  with  quick- 
lime; he  was  stretched  on  a  wheel;  his  limbs  being 
lacerated  with  swords ;  and  being  tormented  with  many 
other  devices,  he  sufficiently  displayed  the  generous 
courage  of  his  soul  and  the  firmness  of  his  conscience. 
besides,  he  overturned  the  ox  of  the  impostor  Glyce- 
'itu;  and  he  called  forth,  by  prayer  alone,  from  the 
<3epths  of  hell,  the  Empress  Alexandra,  who  had   not 

^  long  since  departed  this  life ;  and  at  last  he  died  man- 

■  fully  by  the  sword." 

H     In  the  absence  of  any  distinct  dates,  I  will  now  show 
I      Ik  chronological  order  of  several  martyred  persons, 
I     who  are  recorded  by  Nicephorus. 
f        In  his  seventh  book,  chapter  third,  he  writes  that 
„      Diocletian  had  taken  as  his  co-eniperor,  or  companion 

■  iu  the  empire,  Maximianus  Hercuhus.  Now,  we  know 
~  from  other  sources  that  Diocletian  had  invested  the 
H  latter  with  the  title  of  Augustus,  at  Nicomedia,  in  the 
•yoar  of  our  era  286.    In  chapter  fifth,  of  the  same  book, 

he  mcutions  the  martyrdoms  of  Peter  and  Dorotheua, 
in  Nicomedia,  in  the  time  of  Diocletian.  In  chapter 
sixth,  also  that  of  Anthimus,  Bishop  of  Nicomedia  ; 
id  then,  in  chapter  Htteenth,  he  describes  (as  before 

VOL..    VII.  I 


114 


ST.  GBORGE    THE    MAKTYR     A.ND 


given)  the  death  of  George,  the  chief — 6  ko^u^kwos— of 
martyrs;  and  he  observes  that  the  Queea  Alexandra  (the 
wife  of  the  Emperor  Diocletian)  had  previously  died. 

Dr,  S-  Pegge  having  correctly  said,  that  "  the  adven- 
turers in  the  Crusades,  saw  churches  and  monasteries 
dedicated  to  St.  George,"  I  will  now  recount,  from  the 
notices  of  the  earlier  historians,  a  few  of  the  most  an- 
cient of  these  buildings.  And  of  these,  I  name  more 
especially  the  churches,  because  from  inscriptions  still 
existing  upon  some  of  them,  I  have  been  enabled  to 
discover  the  most  exact  evidence  of  the  non-identity 
of  St.  George,  and  Bishop  George  of  Alexandria. 

Procopius  relates  that  Justinian  erected  (about  a.id. 
530)  a  church  to  George  the  Martyr,  at  Bizanl,  in. 

Armeaia, — BacriKeuf  'lavaTiviavos   ,   .    ,    Upi/v  Peoip^i^  T^ 

The  Emperor  Mauricius  built  an  oratory — ^icrnpiov 
TOW  'Aylov  TewpyiQv—^i  Constantinople,  to  St.  George.'* 

Constantine  X.  {Monomachus)  erected,  from  the 
funds  of  the  public  treasury,  a  splendid  monastery, 
"  in  the  name  of  the  Holy  Great-Martyr  George," — 
eir  ova/iart  tov  'Ayiou  MeydXofidpTupos  Feciipycav,^*  in  the 
region  called  Mauyana,  at  Constantinople.  And  the 
anonymous  author  of  the  '  Constant! nopolitan  An- 
tiquities'  writes,  in  a  place  named  Hitrnum,  in  Con- 
stantinople, "Constantine  the  Great  built  the  church,"i 

— TOV  Se  vaop  6  fi€jas  Kcovtrramlvos  at^jyetpt.'^      To    this 
Anselm  Bandurius  observes,  that  *'  Codinus  writes  tha 
this  church  was  dedicated  to  St.  George;"  these  a 

'"  Prcwopii  C»Barienflifl  de  jEdiflciis,  lib.  in.  cup.  4j  vol^  *ril.  By 
zant.  Script. 

•*  Anonym.  Antiq.  Constant.  lib.  i.  p.  II,  vol.  iv.  Byzant.  Script, 
'*  Anflelmi  Baiidurii  Comment.  I'lh.  ii.  p.  466,  vol,  v.  Byzant.  Script 
'^  AnoDymi  Antiq.  Constant,  lib.  iii.  p.  SO^voLi*.  Byzant.  Script 


GEQHGE    THE    ARIAN    BISHOP; 


115 


I 
I 

I 


his  words, — "Templum  hoc  h  Constantino  Magno  ex- 
tructura,  S.  Georgio  fuisse  sacrum^  scribit  Codiuus.""' 
If  80,  this  was  in  all  probability  the  earliest  church 
which  ie  known  to  have  been  dedicated  to  St.  George  i 
and  it  must  have  been  erected  soon  after  that  martyr's 
death,  i.  ff,  between  a.d.  285  and  3ii7,  when  Constaa- 
tine  the  Great  died. 

The  same  anonymous  writer"  hkewise  mentions  a 
church  of  St.  George  in  Chalcedon,  which  was  built  by 
the  Patriarch  Sergius.  Also  the  Emperor  Joannes  V., 
Caalacuzenus,  thus  speaks  in  his  '  History '  of  a 
'mined  church  oi  St.  George,'  at  Jerusalem,  which 
■^  situated  "  in  the  Roman  quarter;'*'*— ;t"^^*^.^"  ^*' 
•ffaXatas  EKxKtjaiat  us  r^v  yenoviav  rav  'Pmjiaiwv  6  Ayiof 
^mpyiof. 

In  addition  to  the  churches  which  I  have  already 
Mined  in  my  former  memoir,  I  will  now  allude  to  two 
«r  three  more  in  Palestine,  of  which  one  is  extremely 
important,  because  near  to  it  there  is  lying  a  large 
fragment  of  a  Greek  inscription,  which  has  not  as  yet 
tften  correctly  interpreted.  This  church,  or  rather, 
this  ruin  of  a  church,  which  Burckhardt  calls  a  "  hand- 
sottje  edifice,"  is  situate  in  the  town  called  Shaka,  for- 
merty  Sacaea,  the  Xaxxata  of  Ptolemy ;  it  is  only  twenty 
KJles  distant  to  the  east  of  Ezra,  where  the  long  in- 
fcription  relating  to  St.  George  (No.  40),  published  in 
my  last  paper,  still  exists. 

From  the  Shaka  inscription,  the  Rev.  J.  L.  Porter 
state*,  it  appears  that  the  "  church  was  dedicated   to 

AiiM:lini  Baridurii  Comment,  ia  Antiq.  Constant,  p.  535,  vol.  v. 
Bywiit.  Scri|>t. 

AnoDTini  Antiq,  Constatit.  lib.  iit.  p.  52,  vol.  tv.  Byzant.  Script. 

Joan.  Caatacuz.  Hiat.  lib.  iv.  cap.  14,  vol,  xiv.  Byzunt.  Script. 

i2 


116 


ST.  GEORGE    TAB    MAttTVB    AND 


i 


the  saints  and  martyrs  Geortje  and  Sergius,  and  erected 
by  '  Tiberinos  the  bishop,  in  the  year  263,  correspond- 
ing to  A.D.  369.""^ 

Burckhardt  mentions*'  the  "  building,  of  which  the 
front  wall  only  is  standing;'*  and  he  adds, — "  Upon  a 
stone,  lying  on  the  ground  before  the  wall,  and  which 
was  probably  the  architrave  of  the  door,  I  found  the 
following  inscription  :" — 

OIKOCAr  WN  ©AO'frOPtjONMAPTYPtjONrEWP  OYKAITU)N 
tYNAYTtO    ntONEKnPOC<K)P  TlBEP1NOYEniCKEKTIC©H 

EAIWNT  l£P  TIONKAITHNnpOCGHKHNTOYNAOY 

.......  ETOYCCI.rcnOYAH   ErEtOPnO   KAICEPrit^MEr 

oucos'  a^{i}ei}v  {■a)BXa<fn}pav  fiapruptav  reci}p(yt}ou  koa  tSiv  m 

trvv  airra>  {d)yltav  Ik  trpoa^opifiiv)  Ti^^pivov  ciri<TK{o'!rQv)  etcriadrf  (enc) 

{}i)i)utov.    T(p)  lepia^ilov  xai  tijv  irpouQ^KTiv  rov  vaov 

.  ,  .  eTovs  fffy  (TTTouS^  (6)e  rea>pyio{v)  lecu  Sepjiov  fj^yaXo 

I  have  translated  it  as  follows : — 

"A  church  of  the  holy  victorious  laartyrs  George', 
and  of  the  holy    '^men)  with   him,  was  built  from  the 
foundations  with  the    offerings  of  Bishop  Tibertfius, 
But  the  care  of  Georgius  and  Sergius  [erected]  th' 
eanctuary,  and  the  addition  of  the  temple  ....... 

in  the  year  263,  great  "  .  .  .  . 

The  church  then  was  not  "  dedicated  to  George  am 
Sergius,"  but  to  the  Martyr  George  and  the  holy  men 
who  were  martyred  with  him.  The  expression  a 
"  George  and  those  saints  martyred  vfiih  bim," — tioprv 
pmv  Tetapyiov  Ktu  rue  auv  avra ' Ayitiie ,~— very  clearly  prove 
that  it  could  not  possibly  be   referred  to  George  ihi 

'"  Five  Years  in  DamaecuH,  vol.  ii.  p.  64. 
™  Burckhardt'a  Travela  iu  Syria,  p.  75. 


OBnSGB    THE    ARIAN    BISHOP. 


1(7 


I 


Arian  bishop,  who  was  not  martyred^^  uilK  iiuiny  holy 
n,  but  merely  assassinated  for  his  base  conduct  at 
lexandria,  with  only  ttm  more,  namely,  the  master  of 
Ihe  mint,  and  Count  Diodoms. 

Aad  as  to  tlie  date  given  in  the  inscription,  I  think 
Ihat  it  answers,  computed  from  the  Bostrsean  era,  to 
AD.  3G7," which  would  be  in  the  third  year  of  Valens, 
the  Eastern  emperor,  and  only  five  or  six  years  after 
llie  infamous  bi&hop's  murder:  but  it  is  evident  that 
the  year  263  only  refers  to  the  date  of  the  sanctuary 
(iffMiTCiou)  and  the  addition  (■n-poo-^i^.n?),  a  supplemental 
tuilding,  which  the  care  of  George  and  Sergius  erected. 
The  original  church  itseJf,  "  built  from  its  foundations  " 
■  by  Bishop  Tiberinus,  must,  in  all  probability, — nay, 
"  almost  with  certainty, — have  been  Jn  existence  before 

Ilhe  assassination  of  the  Arian  George  and  his  two 
"obsequious  ministers."  It  is  doubtless  an  edifice 
of  vast  interest,  and  possibly  erected  much  about  the 
safiie  date  (a.d.  346)  as  the  church  of  St.  George  at 
Ezra. 

Mr.  Porter  very  reasonably  thinks,  "that  Sacceea 
oiay,  in  early  Christian  times,  have  been  rebuilt  or 
idoraed  by  some  prefect,  and  called  after  the  name  of 
otie  of  the  emperors,  perhaps  Constantine,  as  was  the 
casein  so  many  other  instances;  and  then,  after  the 

^  V'iiie  infra,  p.  24,  where  I  have  shown  from  St.  Epiphaniaa  that 
lliiBttbop  George  did  not  Buffer  niartvrdcim. 

"  Colonel  Leake,  the  editor  of  Biirckhardt's  poBthumoua  work  on 
S^'^,  baa  inaccurately  referred  (p.  7&)  that  date  to  a.u.  263.  This 
» impoMJble,  because  in  that  year  St.  George  was  stilt  ali^e,  and 
■  "tl  marfyred  until  above  twenty  vears  afterw&rJs.  See  a  like 
'  r  which  Colonel  Leake  made  with  respect  to  the  date  of  the  Ezra 
iWnplioDj  iind  which  I  corrected  at  p,  306,  Vol.  VL  Trans.  Hoy. 
S«,  Ul. 


118 


ST.  GEORGE    THE    MARTYR    AND 


lapse  of  a  few  generations,  the  old  name  was  resumed. 
and  the  new  one  soon  forgotten.  There  ia  a  Constan- 
tme,  KonKrratfTiinf,  mentioned  in  the  province  of  Arabia, 
in  the  list  of  ecclesiastical  citieB."^  This  idea  would 
aeem  to  receive  confirmation  from  the  remains  of  seve- 
ral cliurches  or  christianized  temples,^  and  from  the 
wording  of  the  present  inscription, — id  this  ruined 
ept&copal  town  of  Shaka.  In  fact,  these  ecclesiastical 
buildings  call  to  mind  very  strongly  the  age  of  Con- 
stantine  the  Great,  when  the  martyred  saints  were 
taking  the  places  of  the  heathen  deities,  and  heathen 
temples  were  being  converted  into  Christian  churches- 
Baronius,  in  hJs  '  Ecclesiastical  Annals,'**  says  from 
Procopius,  that  about  a.d.  530,  Justinian  the  empe- 
ror, *'  ipsum  item  renovasse  templum  S.  Thalalaei,  S. 
Giorgiiy  et  Panteleemonis  Martyrum  in  eremo  Jor- 
danis.'*  On  referring,  however,  to  Procopius'a  work, 
I  find  that  Baronius  is  quite  wrong,  for  the  Greek 
author  states  that  Justinian  repaired  a  monnstrry,  not 
a  church, — of  -S^.  Gregory,  and  not  of  St.  George.  Tfaia 
is  the  original  passage  : — Movaem]pton  .  .  .  rov  'Ayiou 
rpTjyopioVt  KOI  TO  TOW  dyiov  navTeXeTjfiovot  ev  rvf  epri/j^  tou 

Also  the  handsome  and  well-known  church  at  Ludd^ 
the  former  Lydda,  and  Diospolis  of  the  Greeks,  and 
not  far  from  Hamleh,  in  which,  as  I  have  already  said, 
the  greater  part  of  the  body  of  St.  George  was  interred, 
became   a  place   of  considerable  sanctity  during  the 


^  Porter's  '  Damascua,'  vol.  ii.  p.  64, 

**  See  Porter's  '  Handbook  for  Syria,'  vol.  ii.  p.  309. 

^  Baroaii  Anital.  Eccles.  torn,  ix.  p.  425,  edit.  Luc;?,  1741. 

3>  ProcopiuB  fie  iEdiSciiB  Justini,  vol.  xvii.  lib,  5.  cap.  9,  ByuDt. 

Script. 


OBORGB   THE    ARIAN    BISHOP.  119 

Crusades ;  and  it  is  recorded  to  have  been  repaired  by 
the  lion-hearted  Richard.  An  engraving  of  its  pre- 
sent ruins  may  be  seen  in  Thomson's  '  The  Land  and 
the  Book '  (vol.  ii.  p.  292) ;  and  Dr.  Robinson  says,  in 
his  last  'Travels  in  Palestine,' — '*  These  are  noble  ruins, 
but  were  now,  by  daylight,  less  majestic  and  imposing 
than  as  we  saw  them  formerly,  by  moonlight."'" 

Travellers  in  the  Holy  Land,  and  Burckhardt^  par- 
ticularly, remark  that  "  the  Turks  pay  great  venera- 
tion to  St.  George,"  and  the  Mahomedans,  and  some- 
times the  Christians,  call  him  "  £1  Khouder."  And 
Mr.  Stanley,^  in  his  book  on  that  country,  mentions 
a  Mussulman  sepulchral  chapel  on  the  sea-shore,  near 
Sarafend,  the  former  Sarepta,  dedicated  to  Bl  Khouder, 
in  which  **  there  is  no  tomb  inside,  only  hangings  before 
a  recess.  This  variation  from  the  usual  type  of  Mus- 
sulman sepulchres  was,  as  we  were  told  by  the  pea- 
sants on  the  spot,  because  El  Khouder  is  not  yet  dead  ; 
he  flies  round  and  round  the  world,  and  those  chapels 
are  built  wherever  he  has  appeared."  This  legend 
has  probably  originated  from  the  supposed  frequent 
appearance  in  person  of  St.  George  to  different  parties, 
and  especially  to  render  assistance  to  the  Crusaders  in 
their  battles.**     Again,  in  Busrah,  the  ancient  Bostra^ 

^  RobinsoD's  *  Later  Biblical  Researches  in  Palestine,'  p.  143. 

**  Syria,  pp.  60,  95. 

»  Sinai  and  Palestine,  p.  274,  2nd  edit.,  1856. 

^  In  addition  to  the  legend  of  St.  George's  appearing  in  order  to 
assist  the  Crusaders  at  the  Siege  of  Antioch,  in  a.d.  1098,  which 
is  already  given  at  p.  313,  Vol.  VI.  Trans.  Roy.  Soc.  Lit.,  I  may 
mention  another  similar  apparition,  which  is  related  (fol.  cxiii.)  in  the 
'Golden  Legende'  (edit.  Wynkyn  de  Worde,  Lond.  1527),  to  have 
occurred,  in  these  words  : — "  That  whan  y^  Chrysten  men  went  ouer 
see  to  conquere  Jhcrusalem,  ....  it  so  was  y'  they  had  ussyeged 


120 


ST.  GEORGE    THE    MARTYE    AND 


Mr.  Porter  describes^'  a  mosque,  called  B/A'Aouder;  iC 
stands  alone,  in  the  north-west  of  the  ruined  city,  and 
ia  numbered  12  on  his  accompanyitig  plan.  Also, 
"the  Arabs,"  according  to  Burckhardt,  "give  the 
name  of  Abd  Mans  to  St.  George."  He  speak&  of  a 
rivulet  {moiet)^  a  hill  {tell),  and  the  ruins  of  a  town, 
which  hear  respectively  the  name  of  Abd  Maaz,  to  the 
Bouth-east  of  Busrah,  and  not  far  from  Salkhad. 

Next,  I  will  mention  a  few  churches  which  have 
been  early  erected  to  St.  George  in  the  west  of  Europe. 

This  saint  and  martyr  was  not  introduced  into  the 
Roman  Calendar  and  Church  until  ap,  494,  by  Pope 
Gelasius.  A  church  of  St.  George,  in  the  cheese- 
market  (in  Velabro)  at  Rome,  near  the  colossal  arch 
of  Janus  Quadrifrons,  is  believed  to  have  been  origi- 
nally built  about  the  sixth  eentury.^^  Pope  Leo  II.  is 
related  to  have  repaired  and  beautified  it  in  a.d.  682; 
and  Pope  Zachaiias  is  said  to  have  nearly  rebuilt  it, 

Jherueoletn,  and  durst  not  mount  ne  go  upnn  y'  w&Ues  for  y'  quarellea 
and  defeiiL-e  of  tbe  Sara^yns,  they  sawc  ajipertly  Saint  Georffe,  whiche 
had  whyte  armeE  w*""  a  retd  crosse  y'  wentc  up  tofore  ihem  on  y*  wallj 
and  ihcy  fulowed  hym,  and  bo  was  Jherasalem  lakca  liy  his  lielpc." 

Tasso,  h&wtvcr,  iti  hi&  celebmted  iioem  of  '  Jerusfiletti  Delivered,' 
has  unfurtunutdy  not  followed  this  legend  in  describing  the  conquest 
of  the  Quly  City  during'  that  sit'ge;  but  he  has  hroug-lit  upon  the 
Bceue  the  JtiffeJ  MicAael— in  the  place  of  Saint  George — with  a  vast 
heavenly  huflt. 

The  point's  beautiful  verses  on  the  planting  of  "  La  Vindtric^  In- 
Kei^tia  "  of  the  Holy  Cross  (canto  IS,  etail£a  c.)  should  be  ever  fresh 
in  the  memory  : — 

"  The  sacred  ntount  the  pvrpie  Cross  adores. 
And  Siun  owns  it  From  her  topoiDst  towere." 

"'   Damascns,  vol.  ii.  p.  |54. 

^  VaQl's  '  Itin^raire  de  Rome,'  edit,  fay  Prof-  A.  Nibby,  vol.  U.  p^ 
336.     Rome,  1824. 


GEORGE    THE    AKIAN     BISEIDP. 


121 


» 


r 


4.D.  741-52.  To  wliiclisoever  of  these  Popes  the  ex- 
isting church  is  due,  is  of  no  great  moment,  for  it 
must  be  admitted  to  be  an  edifice  of  great  antiquity 
ind  interest.  It  is  a  basilica  in  plan,  with  a  portico 
ID  front  sustained  by  four  Ionic  columns,  and  two  pilas* 
ters  at  the  corners ;  the  whole  being  enclosed  with 
high  iron  rails.  The  interior  presents  the  form  of  a 
Utin  cross ;  it  lias  a  nave  and  two  side-aisles,  which 
are  divided  chiefly  by  ancient  granite  pillars.  The 
campanile^  or  belfry,  on  one  side,  is  a  square  brick 
tower,  ornamented  with  rows  of  three  nEirrow  blank 
ifindows,  terminating'  in  round  arches. 

Of  the  numerous  churches  whicli  have  been  erected 
iQ  our  own  country  to  this  martyr,  I  will  only  refer  to 
three  or  four  that  are  known  to  be  very  ancient. 

The  first  is  the  monastery,  or  house  of  regular 
canons,  and  the  church  of  St.  George  at  Thetford,^ 
in  Norfolk,  which  was  founded  by  Uvius,  the  first 
abbot  of  Bur}'  St.  Edmund's  ;  this  foundation,  accord- 
ing to  Tanner  and  othejs,  look  place  in  the  reign  of 
Canute  the  Dane. 
The  second  is  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  George'* 

**  SeeTapner,  'Notitia  Mooastica.'  p.  430;  sTid,  more  fully,  Blcune- 
fidd'a  •  Norfolk,'  toI.  it.  pp.  40,  74,  89  ;  ftUo  p.  95,  far  a  rough  copy 
c/"BigUluin  eonveiilfis,'"  representing  St.  George  ktlliag  the  Dragon. 
But,  in  p.  477,  vol,  iv,,  gf  the  lat^;  and  noble  edition  (1823)  of  l>ug- 
dale's  '  Monaeticon  AngLicanum,'  by  Ellis,  etc.,  I  must  point  out  aa 
error  m  No.  I„  an  ancient  Carta,  wbich  is  entitled,  "QuDmodo 
Monialefi  S-  Gregorii  de  Thetford  ingressiini  liabuerunt  in  Thetford," 
where  "  S.  Gregorii  '  seems  a  inistake  for  S.  Ceoryii ;  since  in  the 
cuta  itself  "  Monastehum  £.  Geargii"  ia  alone  named. 

**  Stevene'a  addition  lo  Dugdali;'* '  Monasticon  Anglicrtnum,'  vol.  ii. 
p.  115,  where  it  appears  that  this  church  was  consecrated  to  the 
memury  of  the  "BleEaed  Martyr  St.  George,  the  Tutelar  Saint  of 
£ng!and." 


132 


ST.  GGOHGE   THB    MARTYR    AND 


at  Oxford,  whose  date  is  given,  by  the  same  authorities, 
as  A.D.  1074,  in  the  reign  of  William  the  Conqueror. 

The  third,  or  the  original  church  of  St,  George  the 
Martyr,  ia  Southwark,  was  considered  by  many  as 
having  existed  prior  to  the  Norman  Conquest. 

The  fourth,  Tanner  writes  that  William  Greisley  de- 
dicated the  priory  at  Greisley,  in  Derbyshire,  to  St 
Mary  and  St.  George,  in  the  time  of  Henry  I.  Hav- 
ing already  mentioned  St.  George's  Royal  Chapel  at 
Windsor,  which  was  founded  in  a.u.  1348,  by  Edward 
III.,  I  will  only  observe  that  it  was  really  dedicated, 
like  that  at  Greisley,  to  the  honour  of  the  "Virgin 
Mary  and  St.  George."  Now,  as  three  of  these,  or 
certainly  the  first  two,  were  erected  before  the  first 
Crusade  in  a.d.  1096,  how  came  this  saint  and  mar- 
tyr to  have  been  introduced  from  Palestine  into  Eng- 
land ?  To  this  the  most  obvious  answer  is,  by  means 
of  certain  English  pilgrims  having  visited  the  Holy 
Land.  Or  !t  may  have  been  by  some  religious  tra- 
vellers, on  their  return  from  ConBtantinople.  or  from 
Kome. 

I  think,  however,  that  there  is  another  mode,  through 
which  the  knowledge  of  this  soldier-saint,  may  very 
probably  have  been  also  introduced,  in  addition  to 
Bishop  Arculfs  narrative  respecting  him,  which  he 
brought  from  Constantinople,  and  which  was  published 
by  Adamann  and  Bede,  previous  to  a.d.  700,  namely, 
by  some  Varangians,  or  Bdpajyot..  These  were,  as  is 
well-known,  mercenary  soldiers,  forming  the  body- 
guard of  the  Greek  emperors  at  Constantinople ;" 
and  they  were  continued  in  the  Imperial  service  be- 

^  GibboQ  (in  chnp^  55)  aeems  to  assign  the  date  of  a.d.  862  to 
the  introduction  of  the  Varangiaa  Guard. 


I 


GBORGE    THE    ASIAN    BISHOP. 


123 


I 


yonc]  the  commencement  of  ttie  thirteenth  century. 
Although  most  of  them  were  Danes  and  Norwegians,  or 
Nordmen^  from  Scandinavia  ;  still,  aome  were  Enghsb, 
and  epoke,  as  some  authors  assert,  Danish,  whilst  others 
say  English  ;  possibly  hotb,  or  rather,  I  should  hold, 
tile  old  Norwegian  tongue,  now  termed  Norse. ^^ 

Thetford  was,  at  a  very  early  period,  the  capital  of 
East  AngUa,  and  it  had  often  been  taken  and  de- 
stroyed by  the  Danes;  in  the  age  of  King  Canute  it 
re\'ived,  and  the  probability  seems  to  me  strong,  that 
certain  Danes,  hearing  of  the  gallant  saint  and  martyr 
George,  who  was  so  highly  reverenced  in  the  Greek 
Church  at  Constantinople,  from  some  Varangians,  or 
ttiey  themselves  being  discharged  soldiers  of  that  corps» 
accordingly  brought  his  fame  into  East  Anglia, 

Whether  one  or  more  of  these  suggested  modes 
form  the  true  solution  of  the  question,  is  of  little  con- 
sequence, for  after  the  first  Crusade,  the  victorious 
GeorgCj — who  is  styled  by  Constantine  Manasses,  o 
6dos  XpioTOfinpTvp  6  TpoTraiotfidpos, — became  the  tutelar 
Baint  and  patron  of  England ;  and  his  red  cross  was 
^blazoned  on  her  standard,  and  so  continues  to  the 
present  time. 

Secondly,  as  to  George  the  Anan  Bishop  of  Alexan' 
im,  in  Egypt. 
The  '  Chronicon  Paschale  '  thus  records  i— 

<nre  'OATMniA'S. 

^T.  MafiepTivov  Kai  Ne^rjTa. 

lovXmpoj  yvavs  t^c  Kafj'<rr»ifT(.pu  rov  *Avyov(jTOV  reA-eu- 
ij*!^!'  tamov  airo<rv(i  'tav,  xai  aaeff^eiav  tffavepav  KcSurrSiUf 

**  See  ihia  explained  in  my  memoir  on  Iceland,  in  Trana.  Roy. 
Sw.  Liu  Vol.  VI.  p.  349.  note  44,  and  p.  382,. 


134 


ST.  GEORGE    THE    MABT^'R    AND 


BuiTajfMi  Kara  toC  XpioTtaviafiov,  kuG'  oXtjs  ttJs  oiKovfiiinf? 

aTTOtrreXkiav,  Ta  SL^aiXa  iravra  ai/aveaucrdat  Trpoer^aTTev.     E(p 

oh  ^Trapdfur^s   at   Kara  ttji/  ' ApaToXTjv " EXK^vis,   fv^€fps    eV 

AX^^au&peiJi.  TJ]  KOT   Aiyvirrov,   Yiarpyiov  tov  tTriiJKtnrov  TTja 

•n-oKecDf  a-vWa&ofiei'oi,  avelXov  /cat  to  '\£ti^avov  avrov  a(rej9<uff 

€w0pta-av.    KaftrjXip  yap  fmStvres  &i  oXijs  T^f  iroKetat  Trepte- 

ifiepov.    Kat  fiera  tovto  Suifjiopcov  aXoytav  vexpa  auifiara  fi^ra 

Totv  oareotu  avyayayovr^s^  kiu  avp-fii^airres  avrov  r^  \il^p■ 

a; 


Kai  KaTOKavcravTfs 


jieaKcyp'mu-av. 
I  have  translated  it  in  these  words : — 


u-era  I 


"285  Olympiad. 

"  Consuls,  Mamertinus  and  Neveta. 

"Julian  learning  the  death  of  the  Emperor  ConfitaD- 
tius,  making  manifest  his  own  apostasy  and  irapiety; 
and  despatching  an  edict  against  Christianity  through- 
out the  whole  world,  ordered  all  idols  to  be  restored. 
Whereupon  the  Gentile  Greeks  in  the  East  being  ex- 
cited, immediately  in  Alexandria,  which  is  in  Egypt, 
having  seized  George  the  Bishop  of  the  city,  murdered 
him,  and  profanely  insulted  his  corpse.  For  placing 
it  upon  a  camel,  they  carried  it  round  about  the  whole 
city.  And  afterwards  gathering  together  the  dead 
carcases  of  different  brutes  with  their  bones,  and  ming- 
ling them  with  his  corpse,  they  burnt  them,  and  scat- 
tered them  abroad." 

According  to  Alraeloveen  (Fast.  Consul,  p.  164)  'm 
the  year  "362  p^n.c.  FI.  Mamertinus  et  Fh  Nevitta" 
were  consuls. 

But  the  285  Olympiad  corresponds  to  a.d.  361,  and 
another  year  would  make  it  the  Fecond  year  of  the 
same  Olympiad^  thus  creating  the  difterence  of  only  a 

^  Chronicoa  Paschale,  p,  235t  vol.  xii.  Byzant.  Script. 


GEORGE   THE    ARtAN    filSUOP. 


125 


I 
I 

I 


few  weeks;  or  even  less,  if  the  birth  of  our  Siiviour 
n  December  '25th  be  taken  as  the  begioning  of  the 
ear  362.  Some  writers  fix  the  murder  of  Bishop 
George  at  the  end  of  December  361,  whilat  others 
nsider  that  it  occured  in  3132.  Thus  it  will  be  fouad, 
that  if  the  5'ear  be  taken  to  commence  on  the  day  of 
the  Incarnation  of  Christ,  It  would  be,  supposing  the 
nefarious  George  to  have  been  killed  on,  or  aftei*,  the 
25lh  day  of  December, — of  course  in  the  year  362  ; 
but,  those  who  compute  the  new  year  on,  or  from, 
January  Isl,  would  correctly  conclude  that  assassina- 
tion to  have  been  effected  in  36 1  .^ 

Of  the  contemporary  authors,  who  flourished  about 
Ihe  period  in  which  this  George  lived  (a.d.  337-70), 
I  will  take  first,  Ammianus  Marcellinus,  because  liis 
narration  is  the  most  complete ;  and  on  the  testimony 
of  that  "  cool  and  impartial  infidel,"  Gibbon  has  mainly 
relied. 

It  is  as  follows: — "Cumque  tempus  interstetisset 
exiguum,  Alexandrini  Artemii  compertointeritu,  quem 
verebanlur,  necum  ])otestate  reverses  (id  enimminatus 
est)  muUos  Isederel,  ut  offensus,  iram  in  Georgium  ver- 
lerunt  Episcopum  (vipereis,  ut  ita  dixerim,  morsibus 
lb  eo  sffipius)  adpeliti.  In  fuUonia  natus,  ut  ferebatur 
apud  Epipftaniavi  Cilicis  oppidum,  actusque  in  damna 
compluriura,  contra  utilitatem  suam  reique  communis, 
Ejnscopus  Alexandrits  est  ordinatus,  in  civitate,  quse. 


"  According  lo  Gibbon  Cchap.  23),  on  Nov.  30,  a.d.  36 1,  George 
»«  iinpriBonet] ;  and  he  eays.  "at  the  end  of  Iwenty-foar  days "  his 
u/fltsthody  was  "carried  in  triumph,  ilirougb  the  streets;'*  it  would 
[bus  stem  that  his  murder  occiirecl  at  the  fnd  of  llie  24th  day  of  De- 
wnilwr,  or  rather,  perhaps,  early  on  December  SSth,  the  Nativity  of 
ChriM. 


12ft 


ST.  GEOttGB    THE    MARTYR    AND 


suopte  motu,  et  ubi  causae  non  suppelunt^  seditmnibus 
crebris  agitatur  et  turbuleiitis,  ut  oraculorum  quoque 
loquitur  fides.  His  efleratis  hominum  ineiitibus,  GeoT' 
tfitis  quoque  ipse  grave  accesserat  iacectivum  apud 
patulas  aures  ConetaDtii,  multos  exinde  incusane,  ut 
ejus  recalcitrantes  imperiis  ;  professionisque  suec  obli- 
tus,  quee  nihil  nisi  jiustutn  suadet  et  lene.ad  delatorum 
ausa  feralia  desciscebat.  Et  inter  castera  dicebatur  id 
quoque  maligne  docoisse  Constantium,  quod  in  urbe 
prsedicta  Eedificia  cuncta  solo  coLiEerentia,  a  conditore 
Alexandro  magniludine  impensarura  publicaruoi  ex- 
stfucta,  emolumentis  serani  proBcere  debent  ex  jure. 
Ad  heec  mala  id  quoque  addiderat,  unde  paullo  post 
trusus  est  in  exitium  pr^eceps.  Rcversus  ex  comitatu 
principis,  cum  transiret  per  speciosura  Genii  templum, 
multitudine  stipatus  ex  more,  flexis  ad  aedem  ipsam 
lumiaibuB, '  QuamdiuJ'  inquit,  '  sepulchrum  hoc  stabit  V 
Quo  audito^  velut  t'ulmine  multi  perculsi  metuentesque, 
ne  illud  quoque  tentaret  evertere,  quidquid  poterant,  in 
ejus  pemiciem  clandestinis  Insidiis  concltabant.  £cce 
autem  repente  perlato  l^tabili  nuntio  indicante  exstinc- 
tum  Artemium,  plebs  omnis  elata  gaudio  insperato, 
vocibus  horrendis  infundens,  Georgmm  petit :  rap- 
tumque  diversis  mulcandi  generibus  proterens  et  con- 
culcans  divaricatis  pedibus.  Cunique  eo  Dracontixts 
monetae  pnepositus,  et  Diodorus  quidani  veluti  Comes, 
injectis  per  crura  funibus,  simul  exanimati  sunt :  ille, 
quod  arani  in  uioneta,  quam  regebat,  recens  locatam 
everlit ;  alter,  quod,  dura  gedificands  prasesset  ecclesiae, 
cirros  puerorum  llcentius  detoudebat,  id  quoque  ad 
deorum  cultum  existlmans  pertinere.  Quo  dod  con> 
tenia,  tnultitudo  immanisdilaniata  cadavemperempto- 
rura  camelis  imposita  vexit  ad  littus ;  iisdemque  sub- 


I 


GEORGE    THE    AEIAN    BISHOP. 


1B7 


I 


dito  igne  crematis,  cineres  projecit  in  mare,  id  metuens, 
ut  clamabat,  ne  collectis  supremis,  ^des  illis  exstruerea- 
tur  ut  reliquis,  qui  deviare  a  religione  compulsi,  perta- 
lere  cruciabiles  pcenas,  adusque  glorioaam  mortem  inte- 
merata  fide  pragressi,  et  nunc  raartyres  adpellantur."^ 
Next,  St.  Allianasius,  the  Archbishop  of  Alexandria, 
and  Primate  of  Egypt,  whose  throne^  during  his  tern-- 
porary  retirement,  George  had  usurped,  has  written 
much  condemnatory  of  him.  I  will  only  give  three  ex- 
tracts from  his  works,  which  will  be  sufficient  to  show 
wiiat  the  orthodox  Christians,  at  that  time,  thought  of 
iLiiD. 

Km  irept  fj,ev  Feotpytov  rov  Kn-mruSojeoff  tou  e«jSXt^ejTO» 
Hint  TTjs  AXe^avSpetaf,  Xoyos  ouSeij-'  ut'dpoivov,  /iTjre  e*  Trpo- 
a-jfyuTos  ^iov  TrjV  futprvputv  e^avros,  p^tyr^  o\ai»  KpcerrtavoZ 
T)fp^avavTus,  aXKa  fiovov  uTroxptvafitvou  &ta.  rov  Jtaipou  to 
vwfta,  Kat  TTOptrrp^v  -rjyTjaafifvov  n^v  evaefftLov*^ 

^la  TO  vavraf  wrroa'Tp^^eaSai  tjjv  -npos  FeriipyLov  kolvw 
Woe," 

"  George,  who  was  persecuted  by  the  whole  world." 

"  And  no  account  need  be  taken  concerning  George 

iJie  Cappadocian,  who  was  cast  out  of  Alexandria: 

I  concerning  a  man,  who  having  neither  the  testimony 

of  his  former  life,  nor  being  altogether  a  Christian,  but 

only  having  obtained  the  name  through  opportunity, 

and  having  considered  religion  for  a  gain." 

^  Atnmianus  MarcellinUB,    lib,  '22,   cap.  x\.  {a. a.  362),  toin.  iii. 
Lip»ite,  I  SOS. 
'*"  Athanasii  Opera :  '  De  Synodia,'  p.  725,  cap.  1 2,  torn.  i.     Par, 

*'  Atbaoasii  Opera:  '  De  Synodis,'  p.  752,  cap.  37. 
*  Jbiti.  'Apol.  tie  Fuga,'  p.  323,  cap.  6,  torn.  i. 


1^ 


ST.  GEOaOE    THE    MARTYR    AND 


"Wherefore  all  men  turned  away  from  communioa 
with  George." 

St.  Gregory  of  Nazianzus^  in  his  oration  in  praise  of 
the  former  archbishop, '^a*  tov  fidyav  *ABavd(Tiav  apxtf- 
itUkottov  'AXt^avhpiias, — says,  amoflgst  other  things,  of 
George: — F^wpytos  ,  .  .  6  &f  Kara  iroXKiji'  ^i}  tov  Km\u- 

trovTos  €pr}fuav,,  KaraTpeyei  fiev  AvyVTnov,  Xjfifytat  5*  Ju- 
piav  T^  tcpajii  T^s  aire^etaf,  (.wiXaii^averai  Sc  nai  t^j  &fMir, 
oaov  i^uvaTQ,  to  uppiaaTaav  ati  frpocr'XMp.ffiivtau,  aurmp  oi 
yi^i)Lappoi  ra  uvpp^oiira.,  icac  rols  Kovi^repats  rj  SeiXorepoi-s 
'rri^vop.evos.'*^ 

"  But  he,  through  the  want  of  some  one  to  check  him, 
overruns  Egypt,  and  plunders  Syria  by  the  strength 
of  his  profaneness,  and  he  seizes,  and  always  gains  the 
weak  portion  of  the  east,  as  much  as  he  is  able,  as 
the  winter- torrents  take  floating  bodies  with  them,  and 
attaching  himself  to  the  lighter  or  more  wretched 
people." 

Then  St.  Epipbanius,  another  contemporary,  and 
who  survived  George,  in  his  work  '  Against  Heresies,' 
records  that  "  George  was  slain  at  the  time  in  which 
Julian  reigned,'  — 6  retapytas  apTip^ffrj,  tv  rj)  XP'^^V  tj3*w«- 

He  also  in  the  same  work  fully  describes  George's** 
assassination;  but,  since  the  details  of  it  are  already 
known  from  the  citations  which  I  have  given  from 
other  writers,  I  need  not  here  repeat  them.  St.  Epi- 
phanius,  however,  in  the  sequel,  distinctly  proves  that 
George  did  not  suffer  martyrdom  •*'''  aud  this  he  does  io 

*-''  S,  Gregorii  NEizianZctii  Opera,  jtii.  Orati.  pp.  384—5,  vol.  i. 
Par,  1630. 

♦•  S.  Ep'iphaniii  Adv.  Hrcr.  p.  726,  cap.   10,  tonn,  t,  adit.  Pftarii.\ 
Par.  1622. 

«  [bid,  p.  912,  lib.  3,  cap.  1.  «  Ibid.  pp.  912,  913. 


(JEORGH    THE    ARIAN     B[SROP. 


129 


I 


I 


this  very  important  passage  :—At'^eU  ff  av  ti?  we^i  rod 

0VT1OS  TfTcXfyTTJJCOTOr,  OVKOUV  EfMipTvprflTeV  VTTO    EWTjlWir  TaVTa 

•HTfTTOvBias ;  Hat  et  fitv  inrep  aXrjdetai  avrw  r^v  o  ayoif,  xa*  vtto 
EXKijvtav  tia  <p$ovov,  xat  Tifv  tts  Xpia-Tov  o^oXoyiav  Tit  toi- 

BVT-U  avr^  cri/ffiffi'^riKS}',  Oirrwi  if  fulpTVtn,  KtU  OVK  iU  p.tKpolt, 
tTCTOICTO.     OVK    tJV  0€    TO   tUTtOV  OIU   TI)V   €13   ApiCTTOV   OfU>\oyiaU, 

aXKa  Si'  ijv  fv  T^  eatnov  Bri&eu  'ETTiamyrr^  KoXovfilin},  iroWifv 
^iav  TT)y  woXw  T€  /eat  Tor  ^ijfiov  Biedera,  irjj  fj,ev  dfurd^ofv 
rots  dv9pbifT0ti  ra  irrro  r&v  yovetnv  avratv  tiXTtpovofiTj^iara. 

"  Some  one  may  observe  concerning  his  having  thus 
ended,  did  he  not  therefore  sufler  martyrdom  wlien 
having  endured  these  things  from  the  Gentile  Greeks? 
A.nd  if  indeed,  the  contest  with  him  had  been  con- 
cerning truth,  and  if  such-like  things  had  happened 
Id  him  through  envy  from  the  Gentile  OreekSj  and  for 
his  confession  of  Christ,  verily  he  would  have  been 
classed  among  martyrs,  and  those  not  Bmall  ones. 
The  cause  was  not  the  confession  of  Christ,  but  for- 
sooth in  the  office  called  by  himself  the  Bishopric,  he 
exercised  great  violence  both  against  the  city  and  the 
people  1  by  any  method  plundering  men  of  the  inherit- 
ances from  their  parents," 

Theophanes,  in  his  '  Chronography/  gives  the  same 
account  of  the  murder  of  George,  and  in  nearly  the 
same  words  as  the  author  of  the  '  Chroiiicon  Paschale  ' 
had  previously  done.  He  writes  : — Tavrat  r^  em  e^aai- 
Xowiei'  JouXtai'Os  o  trapaffaTtiv  ,  ,  .  rote  oi  Kara  tt}v  ava- 
TffXfji'  EWrjvBV  errapOevTis,  fvd^ws  tv  AXe^vSpet'a  Veajpyiov 
foe  eJTtffrfOTroF  avpovTfs  uv^lXop r  sat  to  Xetf^avov  avrov  aO^tas 

fiMw  aXofytov  oa-riotu  /j.i.^a.VTei  avTov  to  miy^voi/,  KajeKavtraHf 


wt  tOKopwiaav 


47 


Thieophan,  Xpovoypat^ia,   p.  31,  vol.  ili.  Byiant.  Script.,  edit 
VOt.  VII.  K 


130 


ST.    GEOBGK    THE    MAHTYR    AND 


*' In  this  year  Julian  the  Apostate  reigned  .  .  .  then 
the  Gentile  Greeks  in  the  east  being;  roused,  straight- 
way seizing'  George  the  bishop  in  Alexandria,  murdered 
him,  and  having  profanely  placed  his  corpse  on  a  camel, 
carried  it  in  procession  tlirough  the  city*  and  having 
mingled  his  corpse  with  the  bones  of  dead  beasts, 
burnt  them,  and  scattered  them  abroad." 

George  Ccdrenus,  mentioning  in  his  '  CompeDdium 
of  History '  the  absence  of  Athanasius,  records  that 
"  George  the  Arian— a  Cappadocian  monster — was 
elected  by  the  Arians,"  in  his  place, — ual  X'^tporovelTot 
tnro  'Apecav^v,  Feajpyios  ^Ap€iavds,  repas  t:  KaTnToBoKeiou. 

And  he  subsequently  adds,  "  In  the  first  year  of  this 
{Juliav),  .  .  .  the  Gentile_  Greeks  in  the  East  being 
roused  immediately,  dragging  awayt^eovge  the  Bishop 
in  Alexandria,  killed  him/'—TrnTrpt^TtftTovrov  {'lovXtaivv) 

*Tef,    ,    ,    .    01    Kara-  avaToXifv    EXKiives   eirapBeines  €v$vt  W 
A\€^av^peia  Teatpytov  Tou  (tncitmrov  avpovres  avetKov.*^ 

I  do  not  consider  it  necessary  to  take  up  the  atten- 
tion of  my  readers  in  prosecuting  any  further  my  in- 
quiries with  regard  to  the  non-identity  of  George  the 
martyred  Saint  and  George  the  murdered  Biahop ;  I 
will  theret'ore  not  insert  any  more  extracts  from  the 
Byzantine  writers  or  from  the  '  Ecclesiastical  History  ' 
of  CaUistus  Nicephorus.  But  1  will  only  observe 
that  the  last-named  elegant  writer  has  given  in  the 
sixth  chapter  of  his  tenth  book,  an  ample  description 
of  the  assassination  of  George,  the  Arian  Bishop  of 

Veaetiift,  1729.  In  thie  ediitian  there  are  two  errors  of  rlie  press  in 
lliis  paasago,  the  letters  Kufiij  are  omitted,  and  fVnro^irtvoi'  Sia  T7e 
iriiXfuK  arc  repeated. 

■w  Georgrii  Cedreni  Hist.  Coiapetid.  pp.  236,  240,  vo].  ly.  hj~ 
zant.  Script. 


I 


GBOItGE    THE    AltlAN    BISHOP. 


131 


I 


^ 


exandria,  which  is  well  worthy  of  perusal.  He 
there  states  that  the  perpetrators  of  that  murder  were 
not  the  orthodox  Christians,  but  the  Greek  Geotiles,  or 
heathens,  of  Alexandria,  in  the  time  of  JuUan.  And 
in  the  seventh  chapter  he  gives  the  public  epistle  of 
that  Emperor  to  the  Alexandrians,  wherein  he  blames 
their  wicked  assassination  of  the  tyrannical  George, 
and  in  the  words  of  the  Roman  autlior  before  Quoted, 
"Acri  oratione  scelus  detestabatur  admissnm.''^^ 

The  readers  of  the  foregoing  pages,  Tvho  have  paid 
even  slight  attention  to  the  authorities  which  I  have 
set  forth  in  chronological  order,  and  wliich  elucidate 
respectively  the  deaths  of  the  illustrious  St.  George 
the  Marttfr,  and  of  the  Arian  Bishop  of  the  same  name, 
v\\\,  I  am  satisfied,  be  greatly  surprised  to  find  that 
so  many  writers,— and  among  these  especially  our  own 
Gibbon, — should,  intentionally  or  confusedly,  have  for 
along  period  considered  them  to  he  one  and  the  same 
ptTson.  And  it  is  further  remarkable  that  this  error 
of  identity  should  be  continued  in  our  best  biogra- 
pbies  up  to  the  year  59  of  the  present  century  ;  such 
ffill  appear  to  be  the  fact  to  those  who  may  consult 
these  very  recent  and  excellent  works,  namely,  Dr. 
Wm.  Smith's  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Bio- 
ffraphy  and  Mythology,  and  the  new  '  Dictionnaire  de 
Biographie  Gcnerale  *  (Paris,  1857),  the  last  being  stilt 
b  the  course  of  publication.  And  who  could  have 
conceived  that  so  well-read  and  sensible  a  traveller  as 


H      "  AiQiiiiui.  Marcell.  lib.  22,  cap.  xi. ;  vide  Juliani  Epi^t.  x. ;  and 

^mSHki^  remarks  that  "  the   public  epistle  nf  .lulian  afTords  r  very 

IRmt  proof  of  t\tepariial  spirit  of  his  admiDiitration  "  (chap,  xxiii.)  ^ 

but  it  Kerns  to  me  to  do  more,  viz.  to  bcCray  some  ^igtis  of  du- 

r2 


132 


ST.     GEOKGH    THE     MABTVa    AND 


Mr.  Porter  would  have  made  the  like  popular  mistake 
in  identifying  the  two  Georges,  bo  lately  as  the  year 
1855,  and  at  tliat  time  writing  from  Syria?  Sucli, 
however,  is  the  case;  for  in  his  interesting  work  on 
Damascus  (vol.  ii.  p.  64,  note  &),  he  writes  '*  that  Saint 
George  was  murdered  at  Alexandria ;"  a.pd  again  he 
says,  *'  George  the  Saint,  Bishop  of  Alexandria,  was 
killed  by  the  mob  during  a  revolt  caused  hy  his  perse- 
cution of  the  heathen,  in  a.d.  361." 

But  in  the  year  1858,  (  was  fortunately  enabledt  hy 
careful  examination  of  the  Greek  inscription  (No.  40)^ 
which  Mr.  Cyril  Graham  had,  in  the  previous  summer, 
copied  from  a  very  ancient  church — originally  a  hea- 
then temple  — at  Ezra,  in  Syria,  to  determine  most  sa- 
tisfactorily that  Saint  George  had  died  before  the  year 
A.D.  3-16,  in  which  he  is  expressly  called  a  '*  Holy 
Martyr,"  Also,  it  is  clear  that  tills  date  occurred 
during  the  lifetime  of  the  other  George— the  Alexan- 
drian bishop  —■who  survived  lor  fifteen  years  longer, 
viz.  to  A,D.  3G^  ;  and  who  then,  having  expiated  hia 
vices  and  base  conduct  by  assassination,  could  not, 
under  any  consideration,  be  esteemed  a  Martyr. 

This  confusion  of  identity  is  supposed,  and  indeed 
with  much  probability,  to  have  been  purposclij  nmde 
by  the  Arians,*'  in  order  to  raise  the  credit  and  repute. 


°l 


^  TrnoB.  Royal  Soc.  L5t,  Vol.  VI.  p.  305. 

*'  This  will  ajjpcar  more  probabiie  ■when  it  is  reicolitctetl  that  thi 
fan  rider  of  thia.  heretical  sect  Jiral  proposed  h]^  reXigioiis  novelties  op 
docirines  al  J kj-eindria.     Jrius,  ur'ApftoT,  was  considered  tu  bave_ 
beea  bom  in  Libva,  to  the  south-west  of  Alexaadria,  aboat  A.o.  3G0h 
he  was  ordained  a  presbyter  in  (hut  city  in  a-p-  31^.  and  soon  ufter- 
narde  bad  the  charge  of  a  church  there.     A  few  years  sub^equenUf, 
the  famous  dispute  concerning^  his  new  doctrineK  took  place,  and 
followers  in  AlejAndria,  as  well  as  in  many  other  parts  of  E^ 


fiEOHGE    THE    AUIAN    BISHOP. 


133 


I 


» 


"ot  their  own  bishop,  George,  whom  they  had  elected 
at  Alexandria  in  the  place  of  Atlianasius,  and  whilst 
he  was  in  retirement,  at  the  expense  of  the  fame  and 
virtues  of  George  tiie  Syrian  martyr.     From  the  au- 
thorities detailed  in  my  preceding  and  present  papers, 
we  find,  on  the  one  hand,  that  Saint  George  was  born 
at  Lijdd,  or  Li/dda,  in  Syria  ;  that  his  parents,  beinj;  in 
good  circumstances,  and  Christians,  nurtured  him  "  in 
the  fear  of  the  Lord,"  as  in  fact  we  know  that  "  all 
who  dwelt  in  Lydda  "  had  "  turned  to  the  Lord  "  even 
as  early  as  the  year  of  Christ  38,  after  St.  Peter  had 
come   down  to  them.^*     That  his  parents  took  him 
when  young  into  Cappadocia/^  from  whence  he  went 
to  Nicomedia,  where  the  Emperor  Diocletian  resided, 
and  in  whose  army  he  served  as  an  officer.     By  the 
orders  of  that  Emperor  he,  with  a  great  many  more 
Christians,  suffered  cruel  torments,  during,  in  all  hke- 
liliood,  the  ninth  persecution.     That,  according  to  the 
legends,  shortly  before  his  death,  he  rescued    by  his 
prayers  the  Empress  Alexandra  from  the  depths  of 
hell,  and  vanquished  by  his  prowess  the  I'erocious  Dra- 
gon, both  being  merely  fabulous,  but  excellent  emblems 

n[ftdly  increaEed.  Then  followed,  in  ,325,  the  celebrated  general 
unincil  et  jVrVtto, — n  noble  city  not  far  diBtaiit  from  tbe  Rom&n -Greek 
capital  of  NicDmedin, — in  which  Ariuf  aad  his  followers  were  con- 
demned. But  notwitbBtHndiiig  Ibla  blow,  and  the  death  of  Arius  in 
A.D.  336,  ihe  Arian  party  continued  for  many  years  afterwards  to 
tod  numernius  supporters  in  Alexandria.  And,  in  fnet,  Kt  the  period 
U.D.  356]  when  George  was  chosen  bishoji,  the  Emperor  CoMBtan- 
tiiu  evidently  favQiarcd  tbtt  heretical  party. 

"  See  Acts,  chap.  ii.  vv.  32,  35. 

"  The  words  of  Callistus  NicephoruB.  in  his  Ecclest.  Hist,  be- 
fore cited,  merely  state.  CK  KaTnra&OKuti  yafi  wi',"' fop  being  y"r uHi  t^or 
in)  Cappadocia,"  and  not  that  he  waa  bora  there. 


134 


ST.  GEURUE    THE    MAKTYR    AND 


of  the  true  Christian's  victory  over  hell,  and  conquei 
of  sin,  or  the  Devil. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  learn  thai  the  second  Georgo 
was  born  in  a  fuller's  mill,  according  to  some,  in  Cajy- 
padocia,  or,  as  others  state,  in  the  neighbouring  dis 
trict  of  Cilicia  ;^  that  after  certain  disreputable  acta 
he,  assuming  "  the  profession  of  Arianism,''  proceeded 
to  Alexandria,  in  Egypt,  of  which  city  he  was  chosen 
bishop  by  the  followers  of  that  heretical  sect ;  that,  is 
consequence  of  his  vile  conduct  and  intolerable  exaoi 
tions,  the  heathen  populace  there  murdered  him,  witfc 
his  two  friends,  the  master  of  the  mint,  Dracontius, 
and  Count  Diodorus. 

Hence  the  confusion,  whether  designedly  or  erroneJ 
ously,  may  have  arisen  from  both  Georges  being  re- 
ported to  have  been. from  or  in  Cappadocia  ]  fioni  th 
stories  of  the  Empress  Alexandra ^  of  the  city  of  Aleaf 
andria,  and  from  the  slaughters  of  the  beast  Dragon 
and  of  the  man  Dracontins. 

At  the  same  time,  it  may  be  asked^  why  hare 
taken  so  great  pains  to  determine  from  ancient  author 
the  hitherto  unsettled  question,  whether  the  holy  Man 
tyr  George,  the  tutelar  saint"  of  England,  be  the  sam 
with  the  Arian  bishop  of  that  name,  or  not?  To  tbi 
I  reply,  that  my  trouble  would  have  been  of  little  o 
no  importance,  except  in  a  purely  historical,  or  rathej 
in  a  biographical  view,  had  not  this  Saint  been  e: 

'^  St.  Ath&&QBiu»  ctJls  this  George,  ■'  tbe  Cappndocian,"  see  tntA 
p.  22;  whilst  An:imia.nus  Marcellinue  writes,  "NaTue,  ut  fereb&tin 
apud  Epijihaniam  CUici/e  oppidunt :"  vide  ante,  p.  125. 

^  St.  George  in  also  esteemed  tlie  Guordiao  tind  Patron  Saint 
Genoa.  Thh  doubtless  originated  from  the  early  and  gtsat  conn) 
tioti  of  that  republic  with  Cunstsntitiaple  and  th?  Cast. 


GEOR,G£    THE    AUJAN    BISHOP. 


135 


I 


I 


r 


teemed  for  so  many  centuries  the  patron  of  our  country, 
under  whose  banner  our  soldiers  have  successfully 
fought,  and  especially  the  Patron  of  the  most  noble 
military  Order  in  the  world. 

For  surely  every  Englishman  must  fee!  considerable 
interest  in  the  question,  and  more  particijiarly  must 
every  distinguished    Knight    of  St.   George  and    the 
Garter,  and,  above  all,  must  our  gracious  Queen,  as  So- 
vereign of  that  most  illustrious  Order,  be  individually 
interested  in  its  determination !      And  wlio  iu  truth 
is  there  among  us  in  England^  who  would  either  in 
battle    be  inspired  with   the  waving  of  the  red-cross 
banner,  oral  home  in  civil  pursuits  regard  with  any  de- 
gree of  sanctity  or  respect  tlie  name  of  Saint  George, 
had  that  person  really  been  the  infamous  heretic,  and 
Ariau  buthop  of  Alexandria  ? 

I  Deed  not  here  recount  any  of  the  heroic  deeds  of 
our  brave  soldiers  under  the  banner  of  St.  Geor^^e  ;** 
but  since  the  distinguished  "Order  of  the  Garter"  is 
less  known,  I  will  here  insert,  as  probably  new  to  many 
persons,  the  style  and  character  of  the  "  Admonition '' 
formerly,  and  I  believe  still  solemnly,  pronounced  by 
the  Chancellor  upon  the  investiture  of  the  Collar  (with 
the  Oeorfje  and  Dragon  pendent)  of  that  noble  Order." 
In  English  it  runs  thus  :^"Take  you  this  Collar,  with 
the  imaye  of  St.   George,  patron  of  this  Order,  about 

*  I  have  saJd  nothing  about  oar  valiant  sathrs,  whose  "  hearts  of 
oak"  «re  ever  alive  to  support  the  lionour  of  the  t/wicj  Jack — in  tlie 
centre  of  which  appears,  in  conspicuous  red,  the  "Cross  of  ^atnt 
George, "-^-daly  because  Sn^labd's  Patron  ia  chiefly  BccounCed  a 
^oliiier-Saint. 

"  The  Star  of  the  Order  bears  in  its  centre  the  Greek  red  CroBa  of 
St.  Grarge,  edged  with  white. 


136  ST.    QEORGE   THB    UARTYB. 

your  neck,  by  the  help  whereof  you  may  the  better 
pass  through  both  the  prosperity  and  adversity  of  this 
world ;  so  that  your  enemies  both  of  body  and  soul 
may  be  overcome  ;  you  then  may  receive  not  only  the 
glory  of  temporal  chivalry,  but  also  the  rejoicing  of 
everlasting  victory,  in  sign  and  token  of  this  Order, 
and  increase  of  your  honour."" 

May  then  England  be  always  proud  of  her  well- 
chosen  "  Patron,"  as  the  gallant  example  of  Christian 
purity  and  valour ;  and  may  due  honour  and  esteem 
be  still  awarded  to 

"  SaitU  George  of  mery  Eagland,  the  signe  of  Vtctoree  /"^ 

And  lastly,  may  our  most  gracious  lady,  Queen  Vic- 
toria,— like  as  that  soldier-saint  overcame  in^the  legend 
his  direful  enemy,  in  the  form  of  a  Dragon, — ^vanquish 
every  enemy  under  every  form  ;  and  so  ever  continue 
practically  to  illustrate,  by  the  prowess  of  her  victorious 
arms  in  all  regions  of  the  globe,  the  truth  of  the  excel- 
lent motto,  "  Dat  gloria  vires  !'* 

^  Ashmole  ;  appendix,  No.  102. 

"  Spenoer'e  'Faerie  Queene,'  book  i.  canto  x.  stanza  61. 


137 


v.- ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  EGYPTIAN  HISTORY  AND 
CHRONOLOGY,  FROM  THE  CUNEIFORM  INSCRIP- 
TIONS. 


BT    UAJOK-OKKSRAL   8IR    H.  C.  KAWLINSON,   K.C.B. 

(Read  Febraary  20th,  1861.) 

It  has  beeif  long  known  that  passing  allusions  to  Egypt 
occur  in  several  places  in  the  Cuneiform  Inscriptions ; 
but  it  was  not  suspected,  until  lately,  that  from  the 
same  source  might  be  recovered  complete  chapters  of 
the  lost  history  of  the  Empire  of  the  Pharaohs.  Re- 
cent research,  however,  has  led  to  the  discovery  of 
one  such  chapter,  and  has  indicated  the  existence  of 
another. 

1  propose  then  in  the  following  paper  to  lay  before 
the  Royal  Society  of   Literature,  which    has  always 
taken  a  prominent  part  in  the  prosecution  of  hiero- 
glyphic science,  a  brief  notice  of  the  new  matter  which 
has  thus  unexpectedly  come  to  light ;  and  in  order  to 
make  the  subject  more  complete,   I  will  preface  the 
account  with  some  general  remarks  on  the  early  con- 
nection of  the  Egyptians  with  Babylonia  and  Assyria. 
It  is  certain  that  under  the  Eighteenth,  Nineteenth, 
and  Twentieth  Dynasties,  or  from  the  beginning  of  the 
fifteenth  to  the  end  of  the  twelfth  century  b.c,  the  arms 


138 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    HISTORY 


of  Egypt  penetrated  far  into  Asia,  and  it  has  been 
asserted  that  during  this  period  Assyria  was  couquered 
and  Babylon  even  was  subjected  to  an  Egyptian  in- 
fluence, Thothmes  III.  having  set  his  stela  at  Nine- 
veh, and  lapis  lazuli  of  Babylon  having  been  exhibited 
amongst  the  spoils  olBLameses  III.^  Now  there  is  no- 
thing in  the  Cuneiform  records  either  to  confirm  or 
to  disprove  such  a  statement.  No  Cuneiform  docu- 
ment has  been  yet  discovered, —  or  at  any  rate  deci- 
phered,— liaving  reference  to  foreign  conquest  which  is 
of  an  earlier  date  than  the  end  of  the  twelfth  century 
B.C.  All  the  more  ancient  legends  relate  simply  to 
domestic  history,  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  infurma- 
tion  thus  obtained  which  is  inconsistent  with  the  idea 
that  Rauieses,  or  Thothmes,  may  have  advanced  as 
far  as  Nineveh,  while  Assyria  was  yet  a  mere  pro- 
vincial government,  dependent  on  the  great  Baby- 
lonian Empire  to  the  south.  At  the  same  time,  the 
geographical  names  occurring  on  the  hieroglyphic 
tablets,  which  have  been  brought  forward  as  evidence 
of  the  great  extension  of  Egj'ptian  power  to  the  east, 
are  a  most  fallacious  guide.  Naharayn,  which  is  so 
constantly  mentioned  as  the  limit  of  Egyptian  con- 
quest, and  which  has  been  identified  with  Mesopo- 
tamia, is,  as  I  believe,  quite  a  different  country.^     The 

'  See  Historical  Notice  of  Egypt  in  Rawlinaon's  Herodotus,  vol.  ii. 
pp.  368  and  374. 

^  It  hits  been  always  aesumed  that  the  nnmes  cf  Nttftarain  on  the 
Egyptian  rtionupieuts  and  oi  Aram  ^aharaim  in  Scripture  are  derived 
from  the  Sefititio  word  Nahar  (in:)  "  a  river,"  &nd  thus  denote  the 
country  between  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates,  whicli  was  entitled  Meso- 
poLiimin  by  the  Greeks  ;  but  this  etymology  is  anything  but  certain, 
for  in  Scripture,  evea.  Bslaani  speaks  of  the  Aram  Naharaim  from 
wheace  he  was  summoned  by  Balnk,  ae  "  the  lULiuatains  of  the  Eagt," 


I 


^ 


FROM    THE    CUNEltUHM     1 NSCRIPTIOWS. 

N'a'in,  at  any  rate,  known,  to   the  Assyrians,  and  of 
ft'hich  we  have  the  most  detailed  geographical  notices 
in  the  Cuneiform  inscriptions,  was  the  country  stretch- 
ing along  the  southeru  slopes  of  Mount  Taurus,  from 
the  vicinity  of  the  lake  of  Van  to  the  Cilician  Gates  ;^ 
and  most  of  the  other  E^s^yptian  names  mentioned  in 
conneclioii  wilh  Nakarnyn,  are  thus  to  be  fuund^  I 
ttink,  in  Northern  Syria,  or  just  within  the  mountain 
range.     For  instance,  Saenkar,  instead  of  bein^  com- 
pared with  Singar,  which  was  a  name  not  earlier  than 
the  Roman  period,  is  in  till  probability  the  Saugar  of 
the  Guneitbrm  inscriptions,  which  was  a  city  of  the 
JOietta,  or  Hittites,  near  Carchemish  or  Mabog.    There 
was    a  small  district  again,  ia  the  same  vicinity,  of 

a  deacription  eiiigiilarly  iiiapplical?le  to  the  plaipB  of  Meaopglamia 
(compare  NumberB  iiii.  5  and  xxiii,  7.  with  Dent,  xsiii.  4) ;  and 
ihe  orthography,  mottover,  of  the  Cuticifufm  Na'iri,  tf  that  he  the 
eune  otune  as  Nahara^n  and  Nafiaraim,  ditfers  ess^entiaDy  from  the 
Qrthogrnphy  of  Nahar  "a  river."  Tlie  etymology,  indeed,  of  the 
ettmic  title  of  Na'iri  i&  to  be  Fought,  in  all  prabability,  iii  the  primi- 
tire  Armeaiao  rather  thaa  ia  a  Semitic  toDgue. 

'  It  would  not  be  very  leasy  tu  fix  the  g'eographical  position  of 
Na'ifi  from  the  Assyrinn  inacriplions  al&lie,  for  the  natnc  id  sotoetimes 
used  to  denote  the  extrecne  north-eastern  limit  of  the  A^ivrian  empire, 
while  it  is  al?o  not  unfrequently  epuken  of  in  coDneclion  v^ith  Meli- 
tene,  Cilicia,  and  the  Alcditerranean.  Fortunately  the  monuments 
of  Armetiia  enable  us  to  verify  this  extraordinary  geographical  ei- 
tcu!toE,  for  we  hawe  a  tablet  of  the  kiog^a  of  AVfW  as  fitr  east  as 
Dash-fepjjeh  in  the  plain  of  Miifaadtrb,  and  aa  far  west  as  Maiatieh 
M  the  Euphrates.  The  Upper  and  Lower  Seas  of  A^b'(>i  (eee  Layard'e 
IvKriptions,  pi.  12.  I.  H)  are  no  doubt  the  lakes  of  Van  and  Vru- 
mtk.  and  th«  latter  towcL  even  seems  to  be  spokea  of  under  the 
nuce  of  "  Hurvmi  of  Bitan,"  (compare  the  VitH  of  Strnbo,)  belong- 
Jngto  "the  kiiigepf  Aa'iri."  {See  Sardan.  Annals,  coL  2,  1.  13.) 
It  would  require  n  neparate  essay  to  embody  all  the  numerous  nolicee 
of  Wirf  which  occur  in  the  Assyrian  in&tript ion's. 


140  ILLUSTRATIONS   OF   EGYfTlAN    HlSrORY 

Ihe  name  of  Assuii,  which  suits  the  Egyptian  notice 
of  that  country  far  better  than  the  great  kingdom  of 
Assyria.  The  Klxami  and  the  Katu  of  the  hieroglyphic 
records  are  hoth  to  be  found  in  the  mountains  north 
of  Syria.  Tunp  was  on  the  upper  Euphrates,  The 
Tahai  of  the  Egyptian  tablets  are  almost  certainly  the 
people  of  Dayan,  the  modern  Daikh ;  and  even  a  city 
of  Nuni  is  mentioned  in  the  annals  of  the  first  Tig- 
lath  Pileser,  about  b.c.  1150,  in  the  Taurus  range, 
which  is  much  more  likely  to  have  been  the  spot 
where  Thothmes  III.  set  up  his  stela,  than  the  great 
Assyrian  capital  on  the  Tigris,  which  indeed  in  all 
probability  was  not  built  until  some  centuries  subse- 
quently.^ 

I  shall  have  opportunities  of  examining  the  Asiatic 
conquests  of  Egypt  in  more  detail,  in  a  paper  which 
I  am  preparing,  and  shall  shortly  have  the  honour  of 
reading  before  this  Society,  on  the  early  geography  of 
Syria,  as  preserved  to  us  in  the  Cuneiform  inscrijitions. 
Here  it  will  be  sufficient  to  observe  that  my  own  re- 
searches lead  me  to  doubt  the  fact  of  the  Egyptian 
arms  having  ever  approached  the  confines  of  Assyria 
proper,  or  indeed  of  having  ever  crossed  to  the  east 
of  the  Euphrates.  The  Egyptians  were  essentially 
an  unwarlike  people,  and  the  Khetta^  or  Hittites  (the 
children  of  Heth),  who  were  the  dominant  race  in 
Syria  from  tlie  time  of  Abraham  to  the  age  of  Nebu- 
chadnezzar, were  never  sufficiently  brought  under  the 

*  Most  of  these  name?  are  to  be  found  in  tbe  "  Annals  of  Tlglttth- 
Pileser."  publi-lned  in  the  '  Journal  of  the  Ruya]  Asiatic;  Society.'  vol . 
xviii,  part  1,  \>.  1C4,  but  further  illustratiotia  are  afforded  by  the 
copious  Hiinnts  of  Inlet  monarch^  which  will  he^uly  quoted  ID  my 
paper  on.  tbe  "  GcngrHphy  of  Ancient  Syria." 


PROM    THE    CUNBIFUKM     I XSCBIPTIONS. 


141 


I 


yo!<e  to  admit  of  the  Egyptians  pushing  through  their 
country  to  the  regions  beyond  the   Euphrates  to  the 
eastward,  or  beyond  the  range  of  Taurus  to  the  north. 
There  are  some  isolated  points  of  evidence  however 
which  show  that  there  was  a  certain  connection  be- 
tween the  races  who  inhabited  the  valleys  respectively 
of  the  Nile  and  the  lower  Euphrates,  from  the  very 
earliest  times.   Macrobius  (Sat.  lib.  i.  c.  23)  has  a  story, 
which  cannot  he  altogether  fabulous,  of  a  certain  Egyp- 
tian king,  named  Senemure,  or  Senepos^  having  sent 
an  image  of  the  Sun-god  from  the  temple  of  bis  own 
city  of  Heliopolis,  to  be  set  up  by  an  Assyrian  king, 
Deleboris,  in  the  temple  of  the  Sun,  in  the  Assyrian 
city  of  Heliopolis.     The  names  are  given  both  of  the 
Assyrian  ambassador,  Opias,  and  of  the  Egyptian  priest, 
Parteraetis,  who  conveyed  the  image  to  Assyria ;  and 
the  god  is   said  to  have  been  brought  back    under 
certain  peculiar  circumstances  which  were  well  known, 
but  which  Macrobius  did  not  think  iL  worth  while   to 
interrupt   his  mythological  dissertation  by  narrating, 
Now  at  an  eai'ly  period  of  my  Assyrian  studies,  T  had 
conjectured  that  Deleboras  might  possibly  represent 
the  name  of  an  Assyrian  king,  which  I  then  read  pho- 
netically as  Divanubar;    but   that    identification  has 
becii  long  since  abandoned.     The  king's  name  I  now 
r^  as  ShahnanubLirj  or  more  probably  as  Shalma- 
nusar ;  and  as  the  said  king,  whose  annals  are  given 
in  the  black  obelisk  in  the   British  Museum,  made 
but    one    rapid    expedition   into   Babyloniii,  for   the 
purpose  of  supporting  one  brother  against  another  in 
» disputed  succession,  and  returned  after  taking  the 
cities  oi"  Babylon,  Borsippa,  and  Cutha,  it  is  not  likely 
itial  he  should  have  occupied  himself  in  regulating  the 


H2 


ILLUSTHATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN     HISTORY 


worship  of  Heliopolis.      Anotlier  explanation,  which 

is  plausible,  if  not  entirely  satisfactory,  is  now  there- 
fore suggested  in  preference.  Although  MacrobJus 
mentions  Assyria,  he  probably  meant  Babylonia,  the 
two  names  being  used  almost  indifferently  by  Western 
-writers ;  for  while  there  was  no  Heliopolis  on  the 
upper  Tigris,  there  were  two  great  cities  sacred  to  the 
Sua  in  the  lower  country.  The  most  famous  of  these 
two,  that  indeed  which  is  specially  named  Heliopolis 
by  Berosus,  and  which  in  the  inscriptions  has  the  title 
of  the  "City  of  the  Sun,"  had  the  specific  local  name 
of  Tsibur  or  Tsihar,^  and  thus  nearly  reproduces  tiie 
name  of  a  Babylonian  king,  Tsibir,  who  is  known  from 
the  inscriptions  as  a  monarch  of  the  ante-Assyrian 
period.''  Supjiosing  then  that  the  names  of  Tsibir  and 
Tsibur  are  connected,  the  city  being  named  after  the 
king,  who  may  have  rebuilt  it  and  consecrated  it  to  the 
Sun,  we  may  here  have  the  original  of  the  Latin  name 
of  Delehoras,  or  as  it  appears  in  some  MSS.  of  Ma- 
crobius,  Deboras,  the  d  taking  the  place  of  the  hard 
sibilant,  as  in  Cadytis  for  Khazita,  Ecdippa  for  Achzib, 
Mygdonius  from  Gozan,  etc.  There  are  no  means  of 
determining  the  exact  era  of  Deboras  or  Tsibir,  for  no 

^  This  city  of  Taibur,  or  Tsiliar,  is  that  which  was  known  to  itic 
Greeks  hs  Sippara,  and  in  Scripture  under  the  (luaS  forn:  of  S^phar- 
vaim.  The  name  was  afterwards  corrupted  into  Sura,  and  (be  city 
beCftme  yery  celebrated,  during-  the  early  centuries  of  Christianity,  as 
the  seat  of  &  Jewish  Academy,  which  at  that  time  pretty  well  concen- 
trated the  learning  of  the  East.  The  mJns  of  Sura  arc  arill  to  be 
aeen  on  the  Euphrates  a  few  miles  above  Babylon. 

^  The  great  Sardanapolue,  in  his  Annals,  col.  2,  1.  S4,  comQiemo- 
rates  his  restoration  of  a  city,  named  AtVti,  in  the  province  of  Zamtia, 
which  had  been  destroyed  in  former  time  by  Tsibir,  king  of  Baby- 
lonia, giving  the  restored  city  the  name  of  Dur^Athar, 


I 


independent  monutrents  of  such  a  king  hare  been  yet 

discovered,  but  as  be  seems  tn  have  been  one  of  the 

latest  Babylonian  kings  of  the  ante-Assyrian  period, 

he  may  very  well  have  been  contemporary  with  tlie 

Rameses    of  the  Twentieth  Dynasty  of  Egypt,  whose 

pr«noraens  of  Seser-vm-ra  and  Setep-en-ra  have  been 

thought  to  represent  Senemure  and  Senepos,  and  who, 

curiously  enough,  is  the  very  king  who  also  lent  tiie 

image  of  the  god  Chons  for  three  years  to  the  king 

of  the  Bakhlen,  in  order  to  cure  his  daughter,  who 

was  supposed  to  be  possessed  by  an  evil  spirit. 

I       1  may  add  that  an  Egyptian  lion  was^  a  few  years 

'back,  excavated   from  the  foundations  of  a  house  at 

Baghdad,  which  bad  a  royal  cartouche  belonging  to 

one  of  the  early  dynasties  engraved  on  the  neck.     The 

iiame  cannot  be  identified,  but  the  relic  is  a  certain 

yroof  of  connection  between  Babylonia  and  Egypt  in 

"Very  remote  times.     Numerous  fragments  of  ivory  and 

alabaster  have  also  been  found  at  Nineveh,  engraved 

"with  a  name  in  hieroglyphics,  which  has  been  read  as 

Uben  Ra,  or  "  the  shining  sun."     This  name  cannot 

lie  referred,  either  in  sound  or  meaning,  to  any  Assy- 

Tiaa  king,  and  it  is  still  a  mystery  to  whom  the  title 

alludes,  or  to  what  age  it  belongs.     In   Egypt  proper 

the  same  name  is  found  in  cartouches  of  the  Shepherd 

period. 

Cuneiform  students,  and  myself  among  the  number, 
liave  been  heretofore  frequently  led  into  error  with 
respect  to  Egypt,  in  consequence  of  the  indifferent 
application  of  the  name  of  Muzur,  m  the  Aiseyrian  in- 
fcriplions,  to  two  entirely  diistJocl  countries.  The  true 
name  of  Egypt,  as  known  to  the  Assyrians,  seems  to 
liave  been  Miizur,  a  near  equivalent  of  the   Hebrew 


1 


144 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN     IIISTORV 


D''12T3,  and  Arabic  ^^;  for  the  Assyrian  usually  em- 
ploys the  vowel  a  in  geographical  came?,  where  the 
Hebrew  and  Arabic  have  i,  and  vice  versd,  as  in  Urtsa' 
limmu  for  Jerusalem,  T^amirina  for  Sheicron  or  Sama- 
ria, ATwforNo,  Mimpi  for  Moph.etc.  In  the  inflected 
case,  howevCFj  this  name  of  Musur  becomes  Muzri  or 
Musre,  and  in  that  form  is  undtstinguishable,  as  far 
as  orthography  is  concerned,  from  the  title  of  a  district, 
or  province,  in  the  Kurdish  mountains  to  the  east  of 
Assyria.  Careful  criticism  at  the  same  time  may 
determine  in  most  cases  to  whicii  country  the  Cunei- 
form passage  refers;  and  in  now  briefly  recapitulating 
the  various  notices  of  Musur  in  the  inscriptions,  I 
shall  tJius  endeavour  to  show  which  apply  to  Egypt, 
and  which  have  reference  to  the  comparatively  unia- 
teresting  country  on  ttie  Median  frontier. 

1.  The  MuzuT  of  the  annals  of  the  first  Tiglath 
Pileser  (about  b.c.  1 150), — and  this  is  the  earliest  his- 
torical record  of  the  Assyrian  kings, — is  certainly  the 
eastern  district  of  that  name,  and  not  the  great  king- 
dom on  the  Nile.  The  mountainous  and  inaccessible 
character  of  the  country,  and  its  immediate  proximity  to 
Assyria,  are  decisive  on  this  point ;  and  the  geographi- 
cal names  o^  EUimun,  Taia,  KJiaTutsa,  Comuni,  Ayaza, 
Knpsun,  etc., — which  Mr.  Fox  Talbot,  in  his  transla- 
tion of  the  annals,  has  endeavoured,  but  with  no  great 
success,  to  torture  into  some  resemblance  to  Egyptian 
names, — can  for  the  most  part  be  identified,  from 
otiier  sources,  among  the  mountains  of  the  Carduchi. 

2.  The  next  notice  of  Muzur  occurs  on  the  broken 
obelisk  in  the  British  Museum,^  which  contains  on  ooe 

^  Tbia  iuacription  b  given  in  the  seriea  recently  pabliahed  by  me 
for  the  Triutees  of  the  Britieb  MaBeum.     Plate  2tl. 


I 


I 


FBOM    THE    CUNBIFORH    INSCRIPTIONS- 

side  the  record  of  a  hunting  expedition  of  the  great 
Sardanapalus  in  Syria.  Here,  after  recording  the 
king's  wonderful  success  in  capturing  and  destroying 
a  vast  number  of  wild  animals,  which  are  named  in 
the  following  order, — wild  bulls  and  buffaloes  (?},  lions, 
wild  sheep,  the  grey  stag  (or  mardl),  faliow-deer,  wild 
goats  [or  ibex),  leopards,  tigers,  bears,  wolves,  jackals, 
wild  hog,  hares,  antelopes,  foxes,  hyaenas,  wild  asses, 
and  a  few  others  which  have  still  to  be  identified, — 
it  is  said  that  the  king  of  Musur  sent  as  a  present 
a  great  pagut,  a  naviisu,  ...  a  horned  fish  of  the 
river,  and  other  produce  of  the  "  Great  Sea."  As  the 
title  of  the  "Great  Sea  "  is  always  applied  to  the  Medi- 
terranean, and  as  the  Assyrian  king  was,  at  the  time  of 
receiving  the  presents,  In  southern  Syria,  I  presume 
that  the  king  of  Muzut  in  this  passage  really  means 
the  king  of  Ea^'pt,  and  that  the  animals  sent  were 
natives  of  the  valley  of  the  Nile,  though  I  have  no 
means  of  deciding  whether  the  names  of  piujitt  and 
namtsM  applied  to  the  hippopotamus,  or  rhinoceros, 
or  giraffe,  or  some  other  rare  African  animals.  From 
another  inscription,  however,  of  the  same  king,  we 
find  that  on  a  later  occasion  he  received  both  old  and 
young  pag\it9,  or  parjtits,  among  ihe  tribute  furnished 
by  the  cities  of  Phoenicia,  find  that  he  placed  them  in 
the  menagerie  park  at  Nineveh,  where  ihey  throve 
and  bred.  The  Egyptian  king  who  furnished  the  first 
parjut  to  Sardanapalus,  must  have  belonged  to  the 
Tweaty-sccond  Dynasty,  which  is  known  to  have  culti- 
vated a  close  connection  with  Assyria,  but  the  dates 
are  not  sufficiently  determined  to  enable  us  to  identify 
the  royal  donor.* 

'  It  u  certunly  most  DBtural  to  mippoae  the  Pagiii  or  Pa^dt  to 
VOL.  VIT.  L 


H6 


IX.LUBTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN     HISTORY 


3.  The  next  notice  of  Muzur,  in  chronolo^eal  orders 
is  that  contained  in  the  third  epigraph  upon  the 
famous  Black  Obelisk  in  the  British  Museum,  which 
belongs  to  Shalmamisar,  the  son  of  Sardanapalus. 
Here  tiie  trihute  of  Mn^ur  Is  said  to  consist  of  double- 
hucnped  cauieLs,  a  bull  from  the  rivet"  Tsiiftctfa,  an 
animal  with  an  horn  (which  is  probably  a  rhinoceros), 
some  species  ot  deer,  elephants,  and  apes  or  baboons, 
and  the  animals  themselves  are»  as  it  is  well  known, 
depicted  on  the  marble.  Now  when  I  first  translated 
this  document,  eleven  years  ago,  being  ignorant  at  that 
time  of  an  esistcrn' Muzvr,  I  supposed  these  animals  to 
have  been  brought  to  Shahnanusar  from  Egypt-  AH 
the  animals  however  seem  to  belong  to  the  far  East. 
The  double-humped  camel  is  a  native  of  Bactria.  The 
river  Tsakcya  may  represent  the  Jaxartcs,  or  river  of 
the  Sacae.  The  rhinoceros,  the  elephant  (which  is  of 
the  Asiatic  and  not  of  the  African  type),  and  the  apes, 
must  have  been  brought  fiom  India.  It  must  be  re- 
membered too  that  Shalmanumr,  although  he  was  en- 
gaged iri  repeated  wars  within  the  Median  frontier, 
and  thus  in  all  probability  overran  the  eastern  Mu^w^ 
of  which  however  the  name,  strangely  enongh,  is  never 
mentioned  in  his  annals^  did  not  approach  the  confines 
of  Egypt  nearer,  apparently,  than  the  neighbourhood 
of  Hamath.  He  was  engaged  in  conflict  both  with 
Benhadad  and  Hazael,  and  received  offerings  from 
the  Phcenician  sea-ports,  and  even  from  Jehu,  king  of 
Samaria,  but  he  does  not  seem  to  have  ever  even 
threatened  Egypt,  and  there  is  no  conceivable  reason 

ftpresent  the  Elephant,  liut  in  the  obelisk  the  name  uaed  to  denote 
that  animal  is  Baziat.     The  etymolog^y  of  both  of  the^  names  ia 

□b&cure. 


FROM    THE    CUNEIFORM    INSCRIPTIONS. 


147 


therefore  why  the  reigning  Pharaoh  should  have  sent 
him  tribute. 

Under  the  three  next  reigns,  1  am  not  aware  that 
any  notice  is  to  be  found  in  the  Assyrian  annals,  either 
of  the  eastern  or  the  western  Muzur ;  and  tJie  inscrip- 
tions of  Shalmaneser  which  follow  next  in  chronolo- 
gical order,  are  too  much  mutilated  to  admit  of  a 
minute  examination. 

It  is  from  the  time  of  Sargon  that  the  Cuneiform 
notices  of  Egj'pt  become  frequent  and  regular.  This 
monarch,  whose  native  name  was  Sfirgina,  or  "  the  es- 
tablished king,"'  ascended  tlie  throne  of  Nineveh  in 
B,c.  721.  His  first  exploit  was  the  capture  of  Sama- 
ria and  the  deportation  of  a  portion  of  its  inhabitants 
to  Assyria;  the  capital  of  Israel,  however,  took  the 
firel  occasion  to  throw  oH"  the  Assyrian  yoke,  and  joined 
with  Arpad,  ZimiTTU,  and  DamascuB,  in  a  rebelHon^ 
which  broke  out  during  the  very  next  year,  720-719.* 
//u&i'diit,  a  pretender  to  the  throne  of  Hamath,  put  him- 
self at  the  head  of  the  confederacy,'"  and  engaged  the 
Assyrian  forces  at  the  city  which  is  called  Aroer  in  the 
Bible,  but  of  which  the  true  orthograpliy  seems  to  have 
been  Gargaru.    Ilubi'adi  was  defeated,  and  being  taken 


*  Compare  the  Zemante  of  Genesis  x.  IB,  joinci)  with  the  Atvb- 
dite  aod  the  Hamathite.  Hamath  and  Arpad  are  also  uaually  named 
together  Id  Scripture.     Compare  2  Kings  xviii,  34:  six.  J.t.  etc. 

"  The  Dame  of  this  king  ia  written  indifferentEy  a^  //ubi'Eidi  and 
yaAubi'adi,  the  first  element  being  the  aartie  of  Gotl,  or  perhaps  of  a 
god,  who  WQ*  in  A»«viian  known  by  the  double  name  of  Yolm  and  Ilv. 
This  i«  a  verv-  valuable  illustration  of  the  indifferent  employment  in 
GeoeAJs  of  the  terme  of  Elohim  and  JeAova  for  the  true  G(id,  as  wor- 
^iped  by  the  Jews.  It  i^  embarrassing  however  that  ^e  are  thus 
anable  to  decide  on  the  true  pronunciation  of  the  name  of  the  king 
of  Uamath. 

L    2 


148 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OP    SGYPTIAN    HISTORY 


prisoner  in  the  battle,  was  decapitated ;  Aroer  was 
burnt,  the  ringleaders  of  the  rebellion  were  slain,  aud 
a  heavy  tribute  imposed  upon  the  cities  engaged  in  it. 
The  Assyrian  i'orces  then  continued  their  march  to  the 
south,  and  encountered  an  Egyptian  army  at  the  city 
of  Rapikk,  which  appears  to  correspond  with  Raphia, 
a  frontier  position  beyond  Gaza,  well  known  in  later 
history.  The  hostile  army  was  led  by  Khanunu^  kiog 
of  Gaza,  who  seems  to  have  been  a  tributary  of  Pha- 
raoh's, and  by  Paluhc^  the  Tartan,  or  commander-in- 
chief  of  the  whole  Egyptian  army.^^  Paluhe  fled  from 
the  field  of  battle  and  escaped,  but  the  Egyptian  forces 
were  entirely  defeated,  and  Khanunu  fell  into  the  haiids 
of  the  victor.  In  the  abstract  record  of  Sargon's  ca- 
reer,  it  would  seem  as  if  the  submission  of  Egypt  fol- 
lowed immediately  on  this  victory,  and  such  has  been 
the  explanation  hitherto  adopted ;  but  from  the  longer 
inscriptions  of  Sargon,  where  the  various  operations 
are  annalized,  we  find  that  in  reality  several  years  inter- 
vened between  this  first  success  and  the  more  formal 
humiliation  of  the  Egyptian  monarch.  It  was  not  until 
his  seventh  year,  crux.  715-714,  that  Sargon  again  ap- 
proached the  contines  of  Egypt.  On  this  occasion  be 
was  engaged  in  conflict  wit!i  the  Arabs,  and  penetrated 
far  into  the  peninsula,  for  he  is  said  to  have  subdued 
and  carried  off  from  the  interior  of  the  country  the  Ta- 
mudi  the  hiadidi,  the  Martsimanit  and  the  Khayapa^^^ 

"  Puhh^  IB  no  doubt  «□  £|:yptian  name,  and  lavv  pcweibl^  m«Q 
"  the  Liop  ;"  his  title  of  Tnr-ditwu,  or  Tartaa,  i*  merely  honorific  ;  the 
term.  aignifieB  "  the  hig-h  in  rank,"  like  the  Alijah  of  modera  Pemufi, 
and  where  it  ocenre  in  the  Bible,  it  aliould  be  translated  "Genera]," 
iostead  of  l>eing  regarded  as  a  proper  Dame. 

'^  The  Thamudilcs  are  a  well-kaowD  ancient  tribe,  twlan^ing-  to 


FROM    THE    CUNKIFOBM    INSCRIPTIONS. 


149 


tribes  inhabiting  the  uncultivated  (?)  plains  of  the  re- 
mote Arabia,'^  who  had  never  before  given  tribute  to 
Assyria, and  to  have  settled  them  in  Samaria;"  and  it 
was  in  consequence  of  this  successful  inroad  that  the 
neighbouring  princes,  Pir'ftu  of  Egvpt,  Tsarnsi  Queen 
of  Arib,^''  and  IVkamnra  the  Sabfean,  presented  their 
o(rerin2;s  of  gold,  isbitarra  {?),  horses  and  camels. 

Egypt  is  again  incidentally  mentioned  in  the  annals  of 
Sargon's  tenth  year,  b.c.  712-71 1  ;  and  in  this  second 
passage  ihe  country  is  said  to  be  under  the  yoke  of 
iElhiopia ;  so  that  we  are  able,  from  a  comparison  of 

the  central  ponion  of  Arabia,  but  wbo,  according'  lo  native  tradition,, 
were  lost  in  remote  anti(|uitT.  As  they  still  occupied  eeats  Bumewlierc 
tg  the  south  of  Arabiu  Putriua,  in  tbe  time  of  Ptolemy  the  Genera- 
[iher,  th*y  could  not  have  been  removed  bodilylo  Samariii  by  Sarg^on. 
The  other  names  are  obecure.  In  Inad'td't  we  probably  &ee  tbe  dupli- 
cation of  Ihe  last  radical,  as  in  Lihmtn  for  Libft&tts,  Yatman  for  Yavun, 
ur  Kitn,  Aahdud  for  Azotus,  etc..  hut  I  know  of  no  ancient  tribe  of 
th'S  name  of  Yanad.  Inadidi  may  however  aimply  mean  the  "fu^- 
lives,"  or  even  "  nomRdes."  Of  the  MarUimani  and  Khtt^apa  I  can 
offer  no  explanation  whatever. 

"  The  name  of  Arbaya  for  Arabia  ia  here  written  quite  differently 
From  Arib.  which  is  the  name  uniformly  used  in  the  inscriplioris  for 
the  tountry  stretching  from  the  Dead  Sea  to  the  .Elajiitic  Gulf,  and 
comprising  Idumica,  Moab,  and  the  whole  extent  of  Arehia  Fetrffia. 
1  am  obliged  therefore  to  GUjipose  that  Arib  k  allied  to  the  Hebrew 
n2-c  Arobohy  which  was  the  name  apphed  to  tbe  same  country, 
though  there  ia  a  separate  Cuneiforoo  word  Khvribet,  which  more  pro- 
perly answers  to  Arahah  in  its  signification  of  a  "  desert." 

'*  This  Arabian  colonisation  of  Samaria  is  a  com[)lelely  new  fact  in 
Scripture  history,  and  supplies  an  important  gap,  aa  it  explains  how 
Ceshem  the  Arabian  came  to  be  associated  with  Sanballat  in  the  g^o- 
vcmraeTit  of  Judnca,  when  the  Jew?  under  Nehewiiah  commenced  to 
rebuild  the  Tcntple,  and  also  how  we  find,  iit  the  same  timfi.the  Ara- 
tiians  joined  WLth  the  Ammonites  and  Ashdoditcs  in  the  army  of 
Samaria. 

'*  The  hi&tory  of  the  Arib  of  the  Cuneiform  inscriptions  cannot  he 


150 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    UlSTOttY 


Assyrian  dates,  to  confice  the  period  of  the  ri&e  of  the 
Twenty-fifth  or  jEthioplan  dynasty  wittiia  a  narrow 
margin  of  three  years.  Tbe  notice  of  Egypt  to  which 
I  now  refer,  occurs  in  the  record  of  Sargon's  Ashdod 
campaign,  which  is  also  mentioned,  it  may  be  remem- 
bered, in  the  twentieth  chapter  of  Isaiah,  The  king 
Azuri,  it  is  said,  had  been  deposed  fioai  power  in  con- 
sequence of  fomenting  rebeUion  against  Assyria,  and 
his  vounger  brother,  ^^/»"mi7a,  had  been  set  in  his  place. 
The  Syrians  however  would  not  obey  this  new  cbiefj 
but  raised  anothef  olScer.  named  Yavani,  to  the  go- 
vernment. Sargon  then,  without  waiting  to  asseuible 
his  army,  proceeded  with  a  light  force  to  Ashdod,  upon 
which  Yavani  fled  away  and  escaped  to  the  dependen- 
cies of  Egypt,  which  were  undpr  the  rule  of  Aiihiopin. 

Now  it  is  very  interesting  to  observe  that  the  date 
which  it  thus  elimiuated  from  the  independent  inscrip- 
tions of  Assyria  for  the  Ethiopian  conquest  of  Egypt, 
coincides  almost  exactly  with  the  chronology  obtained 
from  the  liistorians  and  monumental  records  of  Egvpt. 
A  comparison  of  the  Florence  column  with  the  stelae 
discovered  by  Mens.  Mariette,  in  the  Apis  tombs,  has 
determined  that  the  reigns  of  the  Pharaoh  Necho  of  the 
Bible,  and  of  his  father  Psammetichus  commenced  re- 
spectively in  B.C.  610  and  b.c.  664.  It  is  also  found 
that  Tirhakeh,  the  ^Ethiopian,  Immediately  preceded 

citnveuiently  <Ii£CUBi>ed  in  »  mere  note.  The  country  was  usually 
^verned  by  Queens  (three  of  audi  Queeat  indeed  are  mentionfi)  in 
the  inscriptions),  and  ae  Jrib  is  here  immedifttely  connected  with  the 
Sabdeatis,  t  cottjecture  that  the  Queen  of  Sheba  who  camc^  to  Solomon 
reigDed  over  tlie  same  region.  Tbe  geogrflphical  position,  of  Arit, 
in  reference  to  Pulestuie,  would  eufficJent]y  explain  her  title  of  "  Queen 
of  the  South,"  without  bringing  her  from  tbe  southern  extremitv  of 
the  Arabian  peninsula. 


t 


Psammetichus,  and  reigned  twenty-six  years,  so  that 
be  must  have  ascended  the  throne  in  b.c.  690.  Now 
Manetho  either  assigns  Lwenty-two  or  twenty-four  years 
to  the  two  preceding  reigns  of  the  Sliebeks,  or  Sabacos 
(the  numbers  being  given  differently  by  Africanus  and 
Eugebius),  and  the  jEthiopJan  dynasty  must  therefore, 
according  to  this  calculation,  have  commenced  either  in 
B,c,  712  or  714,  both  of  which  numbers  are  within  the 
margin  ranging  from  the  seventh  to  the  tenth  year  of 
Sargon,  Considering  the  entire  independence  of  the 
dates  which  are  thus  examined,  the  coincidence  of  re- 
sult is  certainly  remttrkable,  and  tends  to  the  mutual 
verification  of  the  two  distinct  systems  of  Assyrian  and 
Egyptian  chronology  ;  and  from  such  a  verification  we 
ahaH  be  able,  I  think,  in  the  sequel,  to  rectify  some 
*Bry  important  points  of  Scripture  chronology. 

Jargon's  annals  contain  no  other  allusion  to  Egypt, 
except  in  reference  to  the  horses  which  the  Assyrian 
king  received  from  Pir'fm,  and  which  he  preserved 
with  much  care  in  tife  royal  stables  at  Nineveh. 

There  is  however  a  notice  of  the  eastern  Muzur 
which  is  decisive  as  to  the  geographical  position  of  the 
countiy,  for  in  describing  the  building  of  the  palace  of 
Dur-Sa:refiua,i:ir  Khursabad,  from  whence  come  almost 
all  the  inscriptions  of  this  king,  it  is  said  that  the  city 
where  the  palace  was  built,  and  where  the  kings  of  As- 
syria had  reigned  for  three  hundred  and  fiftygenerations, 
bad  been  previously  called  Magganubbci,  and  was  si- 
luated  on  a  mound,  above  Nineveh  and  at  the  foot  of 
ihe  mountains  of  A/u5ur,  evidently  the  great  range  over- 
hanging Assyria  to  the  eastward. 

Before  quitting  the  subject  of  the  inscriptions  of 
Sargon^  it  may  be  ft-orth  while  to  consider  who  the 


152 


ILLUSTAATIUNS    OF    EGYPTIAN    HISTOHY 


Pir^ku  could  have  been,  that  gave  the  offefiiigs  to  the 
A&syriati  king  in  conjauction  with  the  queen  of  ArU> 
and  the  chiel'  of  the  Sabseans.  The  most  natural  ex- 
planation of  the  name,  and  that  which  I  have  hitherto 
always  adopted,  is  that  it  is  the  simple  Assyrian  tran- 
scription of  the  Hebrew  nyiS,  which  we  pronounce 
as  Pliaraoh  ;  but  it  is  most  extraordinar\'  that,  if  Pir^hit 
were  thus  a  mere  honorific  title,  common  to  all  the 
Egyptian  kiiigSj  it  should  not  be  applied  in  the  Cunei- 
form inscriptions  to  some  other  monarch  of  the  line ; 
instead  of  being  restricted,  as  1  believe  it  to  be,  to  this 
single  iiidividuah  To  all  appearance,  it  is  used  as  a 
distinct  proper  name;  and  the  question  thus  arises 
whether  Pir'ku  may  not  rather  represent  the  name 
whichj  although  it  has  not  yet  been  found,  I  beheve, 
on  the  monuments,  is  given  as  Bocchoris  by  Manetho 
and  Diodorus.  One  thing  at  any  rate  appears  certain, 
that  in  the  seventh  year  of  Sargon,  or  B.C.  715-14,  a 
native  king  was  on  the  throne  of  Egypt  (and  reigning 
apparently  In  the  Delta,  or  he  wcfuld  hardly  have  been 
mixed  up  with  Arabians  and  Sabaians)  ;  and  such  a 
king,  it  would  seem,  can  be  no  other  than  "  Bocchoris 
the  Wise,"  who  had  established  his  capital  at  Sais. 
But  if  such  an  identification  be  admitted,  what  are  we 
to  say  to  the  So,  king  of  Egypt,  who  had  been  in 
communication  with  Hoshea,  king  of  Samaria,  several 
years  previously  ?  Unfortunately  the  Assyrian  annals 
of  Shalmaneser  are  aLmost  entirely  destroyed,  owing 
apparently  to  the  animosity  displayed  against  hira  by 
the  family  of  Sargon,  who  dispossessed  him  of  the 
throne  j  so  that  although  we  have  in  the  inscriptions 
the  name  of  Hoshea,  king  of  Samaria,  and  some  ac- 
count apparently  of  his  rupture  with  the  Assyrians. 


FROM    TU£    CUNEIFORM    INSCRIPTIONS. 


153 


I 

I 


we  can  leara  nothiog  positive  of  the  conneclion  be- 
tween the   Israelites  and   the  Egyptians  antecedent  to 
the  siege  of  Samaria,     I  am  at  the  same  time  entirely 
Eceptiea]  as  to  tlie  identity  of  So  with   Shebek,  the 
first  king  of  the  Ethiopian  Dynasty.     There  is  no- 
thing either  in  the  historical  or  prophetical  books  of 
Scripture  to  indicate  the  conquest  of  Egypt   hy  the 
^Ethiopians  prior  to  the  reign  of  Sargon.     The  evi- 
dence of  the  inscriptions  is  directly  opposed  to  such 
a  notion.     The  name  of  So  again  is  very  doubtful,  for 
the  Septungiiit  gives  the  Greek  form  of  Sijyiijp;   and 
even  if  Mlty  he  the  correct  orthography,  it  requires,  I 
thiak,  a  greater  amount  of  violence  than   is  admis- 
sible  in  rendering  Egyptian  names  in  Hebrew  cha- 
racters, to  force  the  name  into  an  identity  with  Shebek. 
I  should  rather  think  myself  that  So  meant  the  king 
of  Sais,  and  that  the  king  of  Egypt  to  whom  Hoshea 
applied  for  support  against  Shalmaneser  was  thus  the 
same  Pir'hu,  or  Bocchons,  who  a  few  years  later  gave 
tribute  to  Sargon. 

I  now  pass  on  to  the  reign  of  Sennacherib.  The 
canon  of  Ptolemy,  in  fixing  the  date  of  Behhus  at 
Babylon,  whom  Sennacherib  placed  on  the  throne  in 
his  own  first  year,  determines  the  accession  of  the 
Assvrian  monarch  in  703-2. 

In  Sennacherib's  third  year,  or  b.c.  701-700,  the  As- 
Eyrian  arms  again  came  in  contact  with  those  of  Egypt, 
The  annals  say,  at  the  close  of  the  account  of  the  con- 
(]uest  of  Syria^  that  "  the  princes  and  chiefs  and  people 
"  of  Ekron,  who  had  revolted  against  Padi  their  king,  a 
"faithful  servant  to  Assyria,  and  had  sent  him  bound 
"with  fetters  of  iron  to  Hezekiah,  king  of  Jerusalem, 
"to  be  destroyed,  made  their  submission  to  the  kings 


154 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    niSTORY 


"  of  Egyptj  and  sought  for  their  support.  Then  the 
"  troops  and  tiie  archers  aud  the  chariots  and  horses 
"  of  the  king  of  Milukka}"^  or  ^Ethiopia,  an  innume- 
"  rable  host,  came  to  their  assistance.  In  the  neigh- 
"  boorhood  of  the  city  o(  Altaqu  they  took  up  position 
"  before  me  and  arranged  their  forces.  With  the  help 
"  of  the  god  Asshur,  my  lord,  I  fought  with  them  and 
"  defeated  them.  The  lords  of  the  chariots  and  the 
*'  young  men  of  the  king  of  Egypt,  and  the  Jords  of  the 
*'  chariots  of  the  king  o(  Miluhha  (or  ^Ethiopia),  in  the 
"  course  of  the  battle  fell  alive  into  my  hands.  The 
"  cities  of  Altaqu  and  Tamna  1  attacked  atid  took. 
"  And  I  then  went  on  to  Ekron,  and  the  princes  and 
"  chiefs  who  had  been  concerned  in  the  revolt  I  took 
"  and  slew,  and  exposed  their  carcases  on  the  walU 
"  throughout  the  whole  circuit  of  the  city-'"  The 
continuation  of  the  record  of  Sennacherib's  third 
yearj  referring  exclusively  to  his  contest  with  Hezekiali 
of  Jerusalem,  need  not  be  here  translated.'" 

The  only  inference  of  importance  which  I  draw  from 
this  notice  is  that  in  B.C.  700,  or  fourteen  years  after 
the  .i^thiopian  conquest,  there  were  still  subordinate 
native  kings  presiding  over  tlie  nomes  of  Lower  Egypt. 
The  petty  chiefs  to  whom  the  Ekronites  applied  for 
succour  are  not  included,  it  would  seem,  in  the  lista  of 
Manetho,  for  the  short  reigns  of  Stephinathis  and 
Nechepsus  who  preceded  Necho,  will  not  reach  up. to 

"  Miluklm  is  the  name  rendered  by  the  Greeks  as  \l$pQi],  and  pre- 
tended to  be  adopted  from  the  sister  of  Cambysea. 

"  Seethe  '  Britiah  MuBeum  New  Inscriptiona,'  pi.  38,  col.  2, 1.  69, 
to  pi.  S9t  col.  1,  1.  3.  It  was  tbrou^h  mv  discovery  of  this  jjaf^age 
in  a  MS.  book  of  Mr.  Layard's,  in  August,  IS.} I,  that  a  sure  ligbt 
was  first  thrown  on  ihe  identification  of  the  Assyrian  Royol  Name* 
uid  the  geaeral  chronolog^y  of  the  Cuneiform  Ini^riptionv, 


PHOM    THE    CUNEIFORU    [N8CRIPTI0NS. 


155 


I 
I 

I 
I 


the  year  700.  The  /Ethiopian  lord  paramount,  how- 
ever, who  sent  his  troops  to  oppose  the  Assyrians,  must 
have  been,  I  think,  the  second  Shebek^  or  Sabaco  ;  and 
it  is  not  at  all  improbable  tiiat  the  clay  in^pressions  of 
seals  beariag  the  cartouche  of  Shebek ,  which  Mr,  Layard 
found  in  the  palace  of  Sennacherib  at  Koyunjilc,  and 
which  are  now  in  the  Britisli  Museum,  may  have  been 
brought  back  from  this  successful  Syrian  expedition, 
in  which  the  Egyptians  were  really  discomtited  by  the 
Assyrians.  The  more  indeed  that  we  examine  this 
period  of  history,  and  the  more  hght  that  is  thrown 
on  it  fi'om  the  Egyptian  and  Assyrian  monuments, 
tbe  more  certain  does  it  become  that  there  roust  have 
been  two  distinct  expeditions  conducted  by  Senna- 
cherib into  Palestine,  in  both  of  which  he  came  in 
contact  with  the  Egyptians  and  Ethiopians.  The  first 
expedition,  which  was  successful,  and  which  is  that 
described  in  verses  13,  14,  15aud  IG  of  the  eighteenth 
chapter  of  the  second  book  of  Kings,  must  have  taken 
place  in  b.c.  700,  in  the  third  year  of  Sennacherib; 
and,  if  Hezekiah  had  already  reigned  six  years  whea 
Samaria  was  taken,  in  the  twenty-seventh  year  of  that 
kiag's  reign.  Tbe  second  expedition,  which  was  un- 
successful, and  which  is  that  described  from  the  17ih 
Verse  of  the  same  chapter  of  Kings,  must  have  oc- 
curred at  least  ten  years  later,  for  Tirhakeh  of  ^thio- 
pi& was  certainly  mixed  up  in  it.  Indeed  it  seems  highly 
probable,  from  tbe  story  told  to  Herodotus  in  Egypt, 
of  the  fieldmice  devouring  the  quivers  and  bowstrings 
of  the  Assyrians,  that  the  Ethiopian  army  contributed 
'olJie  disconifilure  of  Sennacherib  before  Jerusalem; 
^nd  the  said  Tirhakeh  did  not  ascend  the  throne  of 
figj'pt  till  B.C.  690.     I   should  be  inclined   myself  to 


156 


1LLU3TRATI04NS    OF    E&YPTIAN    HISTORY 


place  the  second  expedition  as  late  as  b.c.  688,  be- 
cause^  in  the  first  place,  Sennacherib  lived  till  t»80,  and 
it  is  evident  from  the  Scripture  narrative,  tliat  his 
miserable  defeat  must  have  occurred  at  an  advanced 
period,  if  not  at  the  very  end,  of  his  reign  ;  and  because, 
in  the  second  place,  Hezekiah  is  distinctly  said  to  have 
survived  his  illness  fifteen  years;  and  Merodach  Bala- 
dan  of  Babylonia*  who  sent  messengers  to  inquire  about 
this  illness,  was  driven  from  his  country  by  Senua- 
cherib  in  b.c.  702,  and  never  again  set  foot  in  Baby- 
Ion.^*  At  any  rate,  by  this  exhaustive  process  we  can 
confine  the  second  expedition  of  Sennacherib,  and  the 
miraculous  dehverance  of  Jerusalem,  within  the  limits 
of  B.C.  690,  which  was  the  date  of  Tirbakeh's  acces- 
eion,  and  b.c,  687,  which  is  the  date  of  Ilezekiah's 
death,  obtained  by  reckoning  fifteen  years  from  the 
period  of  that  illness,  which  must  have  occurred  pre- 
vious to  Merodach  Baladan's  expulsion  from  Babylon 
ill  B.C.  702.  The  result  of  this  calculation  however 
will  be  to  give  to  Hezekiah  a  reign  of  thirty-nine  years 
instead  of*  twenty-nine  as  in  Scripture,  and  we  must 
further  suppose  that  his  life  was  only  just  sufficiently 
prolonged  to  enable  him  to  witness  the  realization  of 
the  promise  given  him  at  the  time  of  his  repentance, 
that  Jerusalem  should  be  miraculously  preserved  from 
the  hand  of  the  Assyrian. 

The  annals  of  Esar-Haddon  are  now  to  be  examined. 
Those  annals  ought  to  furnish  us  with  important 
matter  regarding  Egypt,  for  there  is  unequivocal  evi- 


'*  See  the  Bnliyloniftn  campaign  described  in  the  first  year  of  Sen- 
nacherib's Annals,   Brit.  Mils,  SerieSj  pi,  S8,  col,  1.     After  his   ei- 
pakion  from   Babyloji,   Merodach    Balndan  withdrew  to  Southern  | 
CbaldsR,  and  subsequently  sought  refuge  in  Susiann,  wh«re  he  died. 


FROM    THE   CUNEIFORM    TNSCRIPTIONS. 


157 


I 


tice  of  the  A&syrians  at  this  period  having  overrun 
the  valley  of  the  Nile.     UnforLunately,  however,  the 
cylinders  of  Esar-Haddon  which  have  been  yet  found, 
relate  only  to  his  early  wars.     There  is,  it  is   true,  a 
notice  among  these  early  wars  of  his  having  conquered 
the  country  of  Muzttr,  and  planted  a  colony  of  the 
inhabitants  in  a  position  "  beyond  the  eastern  gate  of 
Nineveh,"  but  the  name  of  the  chief  town  that  was 
captured,  commencing  with  Arza-,  is  Armenian  rather 
than  Egyptian  ;  and  the  fact  also  of  the  colonists  being 
brought  to  Assyria,  together  witli  a  set  of  mouTJtain 
aninaalB,  determines  that  it  is  tlie  eastern  and  not  the 
western  Muzmt  which  is  commemorated  in  the  passage 
referred  to.     The  evidence  of  Esar-Haddon's   Egyp- 
tian conquest  is  to  be  found  in  his  later  monuments. 
On  the  back  of  the  slabs  at  the  entrance  of  his  palace 
at  A'/mruif,  or  Calah,  which  entrance  is  adorned  with 
Egyptian  sphinxes,  instead  of  the  usual  Assyrian  bulls, 
he  calls  himself  "  king  of  the   kings  of  Egypt,   and 
conqueror  of  iE,thiopia  ;"  and  the  same  or  correspond- 
ing titles  are  found  upon  a  bronze  lion,  which  was  dug 
np  at  Nehi  Ynnuift  opposite  to  Mosul,  and  also  on  the 
slabs  of  SheTef  Khan,  which  was  a  palace  that  he  built, 
late  in  life,  for  the  residence  of  hi.s  eldest  son,  Asahur- 
kni'pal.     From  the  annals  also  of  the  last -mentioned 
king.  I  shall  presently  be  able  to  furnish  some  details 
of  Esar-Haddan's  proceedings  in  Egypt. 

Esar-Haddon  is  well  known  fiom  Ptolemy's  canon 
to  have  succeeded  bis  father  Sennacherib  in  b.c.  080, 
and  has  been  conjectured  to  have  had  but  a  short  reign 
of  thirteen  years  over  the  united  kingdom  of  Assyria 
^d  Babylonia,  Saosduchinus  beinLr  given  in  the  canon 
askingof  Babylon  in  b.c.  6G7  ;  and  the  Egyptian  dates, 


U8 


ILLUSTRATIONS   OF    EGYPTIAN    niSTORT 


as  I  shall  presently  show,  very  nearly  confirm  this  cal- 
culation. Tirhakeb,  indeed,  or  Taracus,  who  ascended 
the  throne  of  £g:ypt  and  Ethiopia  Ic  b.c.  690,  and 
who  is  shown  from  one  of  the  Apis  stelffi  to  have 
reigned  twenty-six  years,  appears  from  the  annals  of 
Asskur^bani-pal,  recently  discovered,  to  have  lived  up 
to  the  second  or  third  vear  of  that  monarch's  reijm. 
which,  supposing  AsskuT-bani-pal  to  have  succeeded 
his  fiither  Esar-Haddon  in  b.c.  G67,  would  thus  give 
for  the  date  of  the  Ethiopian  king's  death  and  the  ac- 
cession of  Psammetichus,  b.c.  6t>5-G4,  the  same  num- 
bers, as  nearly  as  possible,  as  are  obtained  from  the 
Egyptian  monuments. 

Nothing  has  been  yet  found  in  the  Assyrian  inscrip- 
tions to  verify  (he  names  of  Amraeris,  or  Stephinathis, 
or  Nechepsus,  who  appear  in  the  lists  of  Manetho  as 
the  three  first  monarchs  of  the  Twenty-sixth  Dynasty; 
but  of  the  fourth  king,  Necho,  the  father  of  Psamme- 
tichus, we  have  a  very  detailed  notice;  and,  judging  from 
this  notice,  we  may  feel  pretty  sure  that  all  the  kings 
in  question  were  mere  viceroys  of  Lower  Egypt,  under 
thcjEthiopians.the  twotirst,Ammerisand  Stephinathis, 
reigning  at  Memphis,  while  Sabaco  and  Tirhakeh  were 
in  the  upper  country,  and  while  Sennacherib  was  king 
of  Assyria,  and  the  two  last,  Nechepsus  and  Necho, 
whose  united  reigns  only  amounted  to  fourteen  years, 
being  contemporary  with  Esar-Haddon,  and  being  con- 
tinued as  governors  of  the  lower  country  during  the  wars 
between  that  king  and  Tirhakeh,  We  shall  find  indeed 
presently,  that  when  Asshur-hani-pal  ascended  the 
throne  of  Assyria  in  b.c.  667-66,  Tirhakeh  the  jEthio- 
pian  was  still  lord  paramount,  and  Necho  was  still 
reigning  in  Memphis  and  Sais,  at  the  head  of  the  twenty 


FROM    TME    CnNRIFQRM     INSCBIPTIOyS, 


159 


I 
I 

I 
I 


provincial  governora,  among  whom  were  distributed 
the  various  cities  and  nomes  of  the  Delta,  and  extend- 
ing up  the  Nile  as  high  as  Thebes.  I  shall  now  read  a 
translation  of  the  passage  in  the  annals  of  Asshur-bnni- 
fal  relating  to  Necho  and  Tirhakeh.  and  leave  the 
Society  to  judge  whether  I  am  not  justified  in  saying 
that  we  have  in  this  pa&sage  recovered  a  lost  chapter 
of  the  history  of  Egypt. 

Translatiiin  of  Piuaagea  in  the  Annals  of  Auhur-hani-pal, 
relating  le  Egypt. 

"  In  my  first  expedition  I  went  to  the  countries  of 
Mu=ur  and  M'dukha  (Ee;)'pt  and  Meroe  or  ^Ethiopia). 
On  a  former  occasion,  my  father,  Asshur-akk-idanna 
(Esar-Haddon),  king  of  Assyria,  had  collected  his 
forces,  and  had  gone  to  that  country.  He  had  defeated 
the  troops  of  Tarqu,  king  of  Kuts  (Taracus,  or  Tjrba- 
keh,  kingof  Cush,  or  iEthiopia);  he  had  put  to  flight  his 
otRcers  and  had  subdued  thewhole  country  of  iVwjsur  and 
Kuts;  he  had  plundered  incalculable  spoil  oiTarqii,  and 
had  taken  the  city  of  ,  .  ,  .  (name  lost),  his  capital  city, 
where  he  reigned,  and  had  added  the  whole  country  to 
Ihe  government  of  Assyria ;  he  had  destroyed  all  the 
old  cities,  and  had  then  a  second  time  rebuilt  them  and 
Darned  them  afresh  ;  he  had  also  appointed  officers  as 
Mngs  and  governors  of  these  cities,  and  had  caused 
Ihem  to  dwell  in  them,  and  had  imposed  on  them  the 
tribute  of  his  empire,  making  the  city  of  Mempi  (or 
Memphis)  the  seat  of  government." 

(This  passage  is  taken  from  two  mutilated  fragments, 
one-half  of  the  lines  being  defective  throughout,  and  it 
is  thus  difficult  to  make  any  connected  sense  of  it. 
The  verbs  are  however  throughout  in  the  third  person. 


IGO 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OP    EGYPTIAN    HISTORV 


and  seem  to  me  everywhere  to  refer  to  the  past  actions 
of  Esar-Haddon.) 

A  hiatus  of  some  length  follows,  which,  unfortu- 
nately, there  are  no  means  of  effectively  filHng  up,  as 
one  small  fragment  only  has  been  yet  discovered, 
referring:  to  this  portion  of  the  expedition.  I  under- 
stand, however,  from  the  fragment  in  question,  that 
A$9hur-ham-pal,  hefore  leaving  Nineveh,  had  heard 
of  Tarqu  liaving  reconrjuered  Egypt ;  that  when  the 
Assyrian  forces  arrived  in  Egypt,  the  kings,  and  the 
governors,  and  the  princes,  and  the  chiefs,  who  had 
been  raised  to  power  by  Esar-Haddon,  and  had  been 
driven  away  by  Tartiu,  sided  with  the  Assyrians,  and 
that  AsshuT'bani-pal  advanced,  with  their  help,  to  the 
city  of  A'or-&ffmf  (perhaps  Serbonis).  Tarqit,  king  of 
Muzur  and  Kuts,  hearing  of  the  progress  of  the  expe- 
dition, then  assembled  his  men  of  war,  and  sent  them 
to  oppose  the  invaders.  From  this  point  the  inscrip- 
tion is  continued  uninterruptedly,  witli  the  mutilation 
of  a  few  words  only,  for  some  fifty  lines,  and  we  thus 
obtain  a  passage  of  very  considerable  interest,  both  his- 
torically and  geographically.     I  translate  literally. 

"  In  the  service  of  Asshur,  chief  of  tiie  great  gods, 
my  lords,  I  engaged  with  his  wide-spreading  army, 
and  defeated  his  troops.  Tarqi't^  being  in  the  city  of 
Memphis,  heard  of  this  defeat  of  his  army.  The  terror 
of  the  god  Asshur  oveipowered  him,  and  the  fear  of 
the  might  of  my  empire  overwhelmed  him,  so  that  he 
removed  the  images  of  the  gods  of  his  country,  and 
having  left  the  city  of  Memphis,  he  fled,  in  order  to 
save  his  life,  to  the  city  of  Ni'a  {No,  or  Thebes).  This 
city  also  I  took,  and  having  refreshed  my  forces,  1 
placed  them  within  it." 


rROU   THB    CUNEIFORM    INSCRIPTIOIIS. 


IGl 


"  1 .  Niku,  king  of  the  city  of  Mimpi  and  Tsai  (MenQ' 
phis  and  Sais). 

2.  Sar-iiik-^dairi,  king  of  Zt'anu  (Zoan,  or  Tanais). 

3.  Pisankhur,  king  of  Natkhu  (the  isle  of  Natho). 

4.  Pakrur,  kin^  o(  Pi-sabat. 

5.  Puif^nanniopt,  liing  of  Khattirib  (Athribis). 

6.  Nakh-ke,  king  of  Kkinins  (HeneSj  or  Kbenea). 

7.  Puthu'basti  (Petiibastes)j  king  of  Zaka  .... 
6.  Hunamuna,  king  of  Nala  .... 

9.  Kharziye'su,  king  of  Zapnu  .... 

10.  Puhu-oima,  king  of  Bindi  (Mendes?). 

1 1 .  Tsutsinqu  (Sesonchis),  king  of  Pu  . .  . , 

12.  Minakhti,  king  of  P«  .  .  . . 

13.  PuA-kunannmpi,  king  of  AJch  .... 

14.  Ipti-kharihesu,  king  o(  Pizatti-kkurunp. 

15.  Nal'hti-khuru-antsini,  king  of  Pi-sa&/Ai-nui. 

16.  Puiur-nini;?,  king  of  PaiA-nu^ 

17.  Zikha^  king  of  Siyaiit  (Siyoul,  or  Lycopolis). 

18.  Lamm(flr,king  of  Khimitn  (Cbemnis,  or  Panopolis]. 

19.  Ispi-mathu,  king  of  Tarn  (Thiuis). 

20.  Mantimiankht\  king  oi  Ni'a  (No,  or  Thebes). 
"These  kings,  governorB,  and  princes  {sarin,  simin, 

la  kipani),  whom  the  father  who  begot  rae  had  ap^ 
pointed  to  power  throughout  the  land  of  Egypt,  and 
who,  from  the  fear  of  Tarqii,  had  abandoned  their  go- 
verotuents  and  fled,  returned  to  their  respective  posts, 
and  I  reappoint€d  each  of  th^^iu  in  his  governmeot. 
The  country  of  Mi/jsur  and  A'u^s  (Egypt  and  /Ethiopia), 
which  the  father  who  begot  me  liad  conquered,  I  thus 
gained  a  second  time ;  and  I  strengthened  the  chiefs 
Qiore  than  formerly,  and  bound  them  in  a  covenant. 
Then  with  much  gain  and  a  heavy  spoil,  I  returned 
vicloriously  to  Nineveh. 

VOL.  VII.  u 


162 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    HISTOEY 


"Afterwards  these  kings,  whom  I  had  severally  ap- 
pointed, lapsed  from  their  allegiance."  (On  an  im- 
perfect duplicate  fragment  it  is  said  that  the  insurrec- 
tionary movement  was  commenced  by  NiA'u  and  I^a/c- 
rur,  the  respective  kings  of  Mimpi  and  Pi-sabat.) 
"They  did  not  observe  the  worship  of  the  great  gods, 
they  neglected  their  duties,  they  inflated  their  hearts, 
they  trnsted.  to  their  strongholds,  and  organized  their 
armies." 

(A  passage  of  considerable  length  follows,  describing 
he  progress  of  the  revolt,  the  communication  of  the 
malcontents  with  TarqUt  the  measures  adopted  by  the 
commanders  of  the  Assyrian  garrisons  for  restoring 
order,  the  seizure  and  imprisonment  of  many  of  the 
rebel  leaders  {Niku  being  again  named),  the  punishment 
of  the  cities  in  the  Delta  chiefly  implicated,  Sais,  Bindi 
or  Mendes  (?),  and  Zoan,  etc.  Many  of  the  paragraphs 
contained  in  this  passage  are  of  so  very  difficult  and 
novel  a  construction  that  1  cannot  venture  at  present 
on  a  literal  or  connected  translation.  The  narrative, 
moreover,  breaks  off  suddenly,  owing  to  the  defective 
Btate  of  the  cylinders,  and  we  are  thus  left  in  doubt  as 
to  the  fate  of  Tarqti  and  Necho.  Reverses,  however, 
timst  have  been  subse<]uenlly  sustained  by  the  Assyrian 
garrisons;  for  when  the  narrative  recommences,  we  find 
a  chief  of  the  name  of  Urdamane  ruling  in  Egypt,  not 
as  king,  but  as  a  heutenant,  probably  on  the  part  of 
Tarqi^).     The  history  is  thus  continued:— 

*'  In  my  second  expedition  I  again  bent  my  way  to 
the  country  of  Musur  and  Mihikka.  Urdamane  heard 
of  the  progress  of  my  expedition,  in  which  I  trampled 
victoriou.sly  on  the  land  of  Egypt.  Having  left  the 
city  of  Memphis,  in  order  to  save  his  life,  he  fled  away 


FROM    THE    CUNEIFORM    l^TSCRIPTIONS, 


163 


I 


:o  the  city  of  NVa  (No,  or  Thebes).  The  kings,  the 
governors,  and  (he  princes  whom  I  had  before  placed 
throughout  the  land  of  Egypt,  came  to  my  presence, 
and  kissed  my  yoke.  I  then  marched  in  pursuit  of 
Urdamane.  I  reached  the  city  of  NVa,  his  stronghold. 
The  tear  of  my  powerful  array  of  battle  prevailed,  so 
he  left  the  city  of  NVa,  and  fled  away  to  the  city  of 
KipAip.^'^  This  city  I  besieged  j  by  the  power  of  ^s-ffftwr 
and  htara  it  fell  into  my  hands.  Gold  and  silver  and 
precious  stones,  the  wealth  of  his  palace  of  eveiy  sort, 

dyed  garments,  captives,  male  and  female,  t\vo 

jet  or  ebony,  and  ivory,  etc.,  for  the  adornment  of  the 
gate  of  my  hall  of  audience,  I  carried  ofF  to  Nineveh. 
The  spoil  of  the  expedition  was  beyond  calculation. 
Then  I  executed  Urdamane  in  the  city  of  JVi'r,  and 
having  appointed  governors  and  exacted  hostages, 
4Qd  imposed  the  tribute  of  my  empire,  1  returned  to 
Kineveb." 

(The  latter  portion  of  this  passage  is  very  imperfect, 
and  the  sense  can  only  be  conjectured,  but  the  phrases 
are  apparently  of  the  standard  typCj  and  there  is  not 
much  chance  therefore  of  error  in  restoring  the  defec- 
tive words.) 

Now  there  can  he  no  doubt  but  that  this  is  genuine 
history,  and  that  it  is  important  in  many  points  of 
view.  The  names,  both  of  the  kings  and  of  the  cities 
where  they  ruled,  are  highly  interesting,  as  illustrative 
in  some  cases  of  Greek  and  Hebrew  orthography,  and 
to  showing  in  others  that  the  ordinary  pronunciation 
in  Egypt  in  the  seventh  century  b.c,  resembled  tiie 
l^r  Coptic  rather  than  the  grammatical  forms   of 

'"  This  place  shotJd  be  higher  dp  the  river  than  Thebes,  hut  I 
have  sought  in  vain  for  its  Egj-pliao  or  Greet  repre»entativc. 

u2 


164 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    HISTORY 


hieroglyphic  writing.     I  shall  therefore  examine  the 
names  in  regular  order. 

1.  Niku  or  Neclio,  the  father  of  Psamnietichus, and 
grandfather  of  Pharaoh  Necho,  is  said  to  have  reigned 
at  Memphis  and  Sais.  The  Cuneiform  Mimpi  for  Mem- 
phis is  exactly  the  Coptic  UeAJiqi  and  Arabic  u-ajL«, 
Minf,  and  departs  widely  from  the  hieroglyphic  Men- 
nufr.  Tsai,  also,  is  exactly  the  Greek  Sais  and  Coptic 
cAJ.  The  name  of  A^eku  occurs  in  the  hieroglyphs^  but 
the  gignification  is  doubtful. 

2.  The  name  of  the  second  king  is  Assyrian,  but  is 
doubtfully  read.  It  is  probably  Sar-Hik-dairi  or  Sar- 
zabad-dairi,  the  middle  element  being  a  monograna 
with  many  differeat  powers  and  senses.  The  king 
himself  had  been  thirty  years  previously  employed  by 
Sennacherib  in  the  government  of  Ascalon,  and  his 
father,  Ruhibut  fthe  charioteer?),  is  mentioned  la  the 
earlier  period  of  Shalmaneser,  in  connection  with 
Tsamsi^  the  sun-worshiper,  queen  o(  Arih.  The  name 
of  the  city  of  Zi'anu,  nearly  reproduces  the  Hebrew 
Zoan  and  Greek  Tanis,  and  may  be  compared  both 
with  the  hieroglyphic  t{j)ani  and  Coptic  XirtH. 

3.  Pisankkur  is  the  hieroglyphic  pee-san-har,  tiie 
son  of  Horus  ;  Natkhu  is  probably  the  Isle  of  Nathu. 

4-  Pakrur  of  Pi-sabat  presents  many  ditficulties. 
The  name  of  Pakrur  is,  I  feel  pretty  sure,  Egyptian 
rather  than  Assyrian,  but  the  etymology  is  obscure ; 
and  Pi'Sabat,  although  signifying  the  fort  par  excellence^ 
and  thus  most  applicable  to  a  stronghold,  is  not  known 
in  the  geography  of  the  NiEitic  valley,  unless  indeed  it 
can  be  identified  with  the  Asvxw  reixos  of  the  Greeks. 
As  Pakrur  and  Niku.  were  associated  as  leaders  of  tlie 
revolt  against  Assyria,  I  should  at  any  rate  suppose 


FROM    THE    CUNEIFORM    INSCRIPTIONS, 


165 


I 

I 

I 


Pi-sabat  to  be  immediately  contiguous  to  Memphis. 
Fostat,  I  may  add^  answers  both  in  sound  and  posi- 
tion ;  but  it  is  not,  I  believe,  an  old  name. 

5.  Pui-kunanniopl  is  a  title  which  occurs  in  two  in- 
stances, and  ought  therefore  to  be  sufficiently  intelligi- 
ble :  but  beyond  the  name  of  Api,  or  Apis,  at  the  end 
of  the  word,  nothing  can  be  made  of  it.  The  city  of 
Khattirrih,  or  Athribis,  gave  its  name  to  a  nome;  in 
Coptic  it  is  A^epHfij, 

6.  The  name  of  Nakh-ke  h  also  unintelligible;  but 
Khinins  is  in  all  probability  the  D3n  of  Scripture, 
otherwise  called  Heracleopohs.     The  Arabic  form  was 


From  7  to  13  the  geographical  names  are  all  imper- 
fect, but  I  should  expect  to  find  the  cities  which  they 
Indicate  in  a  regular  ascending  series  along  the  Nile. 
Ttie  proper  names  of  the  kings  admit  more  or  less  of 
explanation. 

7.  Puthn-basti  is  the  Pelo-bastis  of  Manetho;  pet- 
s^BAST  in  hieroglyphics,  signifying  "  the  approved  son 
ot'Bubastis." 

8.  Hunamuna :  the  last  element  is  no  doubt  the  god 
Ammon. 

9.  Kharziyesu  seems  to  be  har-ba-hes,  "  Horus, 
iOD  of  Isis." 

10.  Puku-aima  cannot  be  explained,  bat  is  Egyptian. 
U.  Tiutsinqu  is  exactly  the  Sesoncbis  of  Manelho, 

and  Sheshenk  of  the  hieroglyphics. 
12.  In  Minakhtif  the  last  element  raeans  "  strong." 
13  is  the  unintelligible  word  Pnkkunanniapi,  for  the 

second  time. 
14,  In  Ipti-kkar-tem  we  seem  to  have  the  names  of 

Ptlah,  Horus,  and  Isis  j  and  in  the  first  element  of 


166 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN    HISTOHT 


the  geographical  name  of  Pisatti-khnrunp,  where  be 
reigned,  we  seem  to  have  the  hieroglyphic  Pi-zaza, 
which  was  the  native  name  of  Diospolis  Parva. 

15.  The  fifteenth  name  is  Nakfiti-khuru-antsinit  of 
which  the  first  two  elements  answer  to  NeAhti  (the 
strong)  and  Ifur  (Horus)  of  the  hieroglyphics ;  and  the 
geographical  name  of  Pisabdinut  would  mean  "  the 
fort  of  the  god,"  as  Pakh-nut,  the  next  name,  would 
stand  for  "  the  city  of  the  god,"  though  neither  of  such 
names  are  known  in  Egyptian  geography. 

16.  PukuT-Ninip^  for  the  sixteenth  king,  w^ho  reigned 
at  PaAhnut,  is  undoubtedly  an  Assyrian  name,  eigni- 
fyiflg  '*  the  offspring  of  Ninip,"  or  Hercules. 

The  four  last  geographical  names  are  found  in  regu- 
lar order  along  the  Kile,  from  south  to  north.  Shjai'tt 
is  the  ssAUT  of  the  hieroglyphics,  Coptic  cioo"»d 
and  Arabic  bjA-sl,  answering  to  the  Lycopolis  of  the 
Greeks. 

Khimun  is  khbmmen  in  the  hieroglyphs,  ^juutt  in 
Coptic,  and  PauopoHs  in  Greek,  and  -aas-I  in  Arabic. 

Tain  is  tenee  in  the  hieroglyphs  and  Oivis  in 
Greek,  which  gave  its  name  to  the  Thinite  norae  ;  and 
Ni'a  is  the  No-Amon^"  of  the  Bible,  which  was  the 
Semitic  name  for  the  great  Thebes,  though  it  seems  to 
have  been  unknown  in  the  country. 

Of  the  names  of  the  four  last  kings,  ZWia  hardly 
seems  to  be  Egyptian.  Laminta  may  be  for  ra-men-ter, 
an  old  prasnoraen  occuring  at  this  period^  and  referring 
to  Men,  the  god  of  Chemmis.  Ispi,matu  is  very  like 
an  Egyptian  compound,  but  gives  no  intelligible  sense ; 

*  The  etymology  of  this  name  has  never  yet  been  sHt«efiwtorily 
determined,  bat  perhaps  mu  or  rt^,  signifying;  "the  place"  war'  iio}(^, 
gives  tbe  uioet  reasonable  cxplBimtion. 


FROM    THB    CUNEIFORM    XKsC&lPXlONa. 


167 


I 


I 


and  even  the  compound  Manti'mi-anW-,  though  it 
signifies  *'  the  living  one,  beloved  of  Mentu,"  is  not 
known  as  a  proper  name. 

There  seems  every  reason  to  believe  that  the  geo- 
graphical order  is  from  north  to  south.  Memphis, 
Sais,  and  Tanis,  are  first  mentioned,  as  of  most  import- 
ance. Then  follow  the  great  cities  of  the  Delta, 
Natho,  Pi-Sabat^  and  Athribis;  and  afterwards,  from 
Khenes  to  Thebes,  it  is  probable  that  the  cities  are 
enumerated  along  the  banks  of  the  river  in  direct  suc- 
cession, though  it  is  impossible  to  read  the  names  of 
many  of  them  ;  and  several  which  can  be  read,  are 
Qot  to  be  identitied,  as  they  were  probably  the  mere 
temporary  titles  which  were  imposed  by  the  Assyrian 
conquerors.  It  is  only  proper  to  state,  that  in  this 
examination  of  the  historical  and  geographical  names 
of  E^pt  which  occur  in  the  inscription  of  Asshur- 
bani-pal,  I  have  mainly  followed  the  authority  of  Mr. 
Poole,  in  which  I  believe  Mr.  Birch  also  concurs. 

1  now  close  my  paper  with  a  few  general  remarks. 
The  historical  and  chronological  results  of  the  extract 
from  the  annals  o(  Asshur-bani-pal,  are,  I  think,  as  im- 
portant as  the  etymological  and  geographical  consi- 
derations furnished  by  our  examination  of  the  proper 
Dames   are   curious.     It   is   no   small  thing  to  have 
rescued   from  oblivion  a  chapter  in  the  life  of  Tirha- 
keh,  or  Taracus,  who  is  classed  by  Megasthenes  among 
the  greateist  of  Oriental  conquerors.     It  is  not  less 
salisfactory  to  have  succeeded  in  showing  jiow  exactly 
the  Assyrian  dates  agree   with  the  canon  of  Ptolemy 
on  the  one  side,  and  with  native  Egyptian  chronology 
on  the  other  ;  for  supposing  that  Targii  died  in  the 
third  year  of  Asshftr-hani-pal,  that  is,  immediately  after 


168 


ILLUSTRATIONS    OF    EGYPTIAN     HISTORY. 


the  Assyrian  king's  return  from  his,  second  EgT^-ptian 
expedition, — the  very  same  year  of  B.a  665-64  will  be 
obtained  for  the  accession  of  Psammetichus,  which  has 
already  been  determined  from  the  Florence  and  Apis 
stelffi,  compared  with  the  statements  of  Herodotus 
and  Manetho.  The  true  expIaDation,  which  is  further 
obtained,  of  the  Dodecarchy  described  by  Herodotus, 
anterior  to  the  accession  of  Psammetichus,  is  equally 
important  to  the  study  of  history  ;  and  even  the  recti- 
fications which  we  are  able  to  make  of  the  mistakes  of 
Herodotus,  in  passing  over  Tarakus,  and  giving  to 
Sabaco  alone  the  full  period  of  fifty  years  which  really 
belonged  to  the  whole  Ethiopian  dynasty,  and  in  as- 
cribing the  death  of  Necho  to  the  same  Sabaco,  rather 
than  to  his  successor  Targu,  or  Taracus,  should  be 
g^ratifying  to  all  lovers  of  truth.  Lastly,  I  believe  that 
a  service  has  been  done  to  Biblical  criticism,  in  show- 
ing that  the  events  recorded  in  Scripture,  with  regard 
to  the  mutual  relations  of  Hezekiah,  Sennacherib,  and 
Tirhakeh,  can  be  reconciled  with  the  contemporary 
history  of  the  Assyrians  and  Egyptians,  with  no  fur- 
ther violence  to  the  Hebrew  text,  than  the  simple  al- 
teration of  the  number  twenty-nine  to  thirty-nine,  in 
reference  to  the  length  of  Hezekiah's  reign,  and  the 
substitution  of  Hezekiah's  twenty-seventh  for  his  four- 
teenth year,  as  the  date  of  Seanacherib's  first  invasioa 
of  Palestine. 


169 


VI.-ON  ASSYEIAN  ANTIQUITIES. 


BT    B.    r.   TALBOT. 


(Read  March  13,  1861.) 


Undkr  this  bead  I  propose  here  to  examine  several 
passages  which  occur  in  one  of  the  British  Museum 
inscriptions,  and  which  appear  to  present  points  of 
interest. 

(1.)  On  the  Antiquity  of  Coined  Money. 

Various  opinions  have  been  entertained  respecting 
tbe  age  and  country  which  first  adopted  the  practice 
of  coining  money.  According  to  Herodotus  (i.  94)  the 
Lydians  are  entitled  to  the  honour  of  this  invention. 
We  are  assured  that  no  coins  have  yet  been  found  either 
in  Assyria  or  Egypt,'  notwithstanding  the  zealous  re- 
searches of  antiquarians  and  the  numerous  excavations 
which  have  been  made.  Yet  the  precious  metals  have 
Iwen  employed,  from  time  immemorial,'  for  effecting 

*  Rawlinsoa's  '  Herodotus,'  vol.  i.  p.  684  : — "  It  is  certainly  moat 
Remarkable  that  among  the  numerous  remains  of  Egyptian  and  As- 
tyiitn  antiquity  which  have  come  down  to  us,  not  a  single  coin  has 
Wa  yet  found." 

'  Abraham  bought  the  field  of  Machpelah  of  Ephron  the  Hittile, 
uid  "  weighed  to  him  the  silver  which  he  had  named  in  the  audience 
of  the  sons  of  Heth,  four  hundred  shekels  of  silver,  current  money 
»ith  the  merchant."— /6trf. 


170 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTlQUfTIES. 


Ihe  payments  necessary  in  the  daily  concerns  of  life. 
Tlie  metat  was  weighed  :  the  value  was  of  course  ia 
proportion  to  the  weight 

Now  this  was  all  very  well  for  large  payments, — of 
a  hundred  talents,  for  instance,  or  even  of  one  talent, 
But  how  was  it  in  the  daily  transactions  of  life  between 
private  individuals? — did  the  seller  of  a  loaf  of  bread 
weigh  the  small  piece  of  metal  which  was  offered  to 
him  in  exchange  ?  Surely  the  simple  expedient  must 
have  occurred  to  some  onej  of  cutting  the  metal  into 
convenient  lumps  of  moderate  size,  and  stamping  on 
them  some  mark  or  symbol  which  was  known  to  ex- 
press some  determinate  value. 

I  propose  in  the  following  pages  to  examine  a  pas- 
sage which  I  have  found  on  the  cylinder  of  Sargon, 
which  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum,  and  which, 
if  it  bears  the  interpretation  which  1  attribute  to  it, 
appears  to  throw  some  light  upon  this  difficult  subject. 

I  shall  examine  minutely  the  words  of  the  record,  in 
order  to  enable  scholars  to  judge  of  the  truth  of  the 
translation,  and  to  suggest  the  true  interpretation,  if 
the  present  one  should  prove  to  be  inaccurate. 

The  commencement  of  the  inscription  on  this  cylin- 
der is  occupied  in  the  usual  manner  by  an  enumera- 
tion of  the  victories  gained  by  the  king,  and  the  names 
of  the  monarchs  and  cities  subdued  by  Mm.  After 
which,  at  line  40,  the  following  passage  occurs : — 

[40]  kima  zigtr  mtmi-ya  sha  ami  navsarikti  u  mishari  to, 
autis/iur  fa  Hkfd  la  kabalat  simbu  inni  III  Rabi, 

[41]  kaship  asibut  ir  skasu  ki  pi  ummail  ska  yamanusu^ 
kaspa  u  takabar  ana  inni-sun  wdaru. 

[42]  assu  rikkati  la  rime,  aha  kaship  asibul  la  tsil/it  :  aaib 
uiik/tar,  aaib  akhar,  panv-$un  aiian  sunuli. 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIE^. 


171 


I 


[40]  As  the  great  ^ads  have  given  renown  to  my  name, 
which  is  triumphant  and  victoriousj  so  also  have  they  given 
to  me  the  government  of  sffairs  unconnected  with  battle  and 
victory. 

[41]  The  money  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  city  (as  with 
unanimous  voice  they  decreed)  I  renewed,  both  in  silver  and 
copper,  in  accordance  with  their  prayers. 

[42]  1  made  coins,  but  not  of  gold  (which  money  the 
people  did  not  wish  for},  and  gave  them  to  the  inhabitants, 
both  present  and  future,  to  be  their  own  property. 

Omitting  the  words  which  very  frequently  occur, 
and  concerning;  the  meaning  of  which  there  can  be  no 
question,  I  will  examine  those  which  are  of  rarer  oc- 
currence. 

Nassarikti  u  mishari :  so  in  the  Bellino  cylinder  (1-  3) , 
Sennacherib  calls  bimseU  nassarikti  rahim  mishari.  But 
t-he  meaning  of  this  phrase  is  uncertain. 

Sar  miskari,  probably  "  triumphant  king,"  is  a  title 
of  Nebuchadnezzar. 

Nassar,  or  naUir,  appears  to  mean  victory .-  also  an 
eagle^  which  is  the  einblem  of  \-ictory. 

Nassar  means  victory  also  in  Egyptian  (Bunsen,  quo- 
ting Rosellini,  Monumenti  del  Culto,  plate  xviii.).  In 
Copticj  Jiosker  is  a  vulture.  But  the  vulture  was  the 
emblem  of  victory  in  Egypt- 

Sutixhur,  regulation,  direction,  order,  or  good  go- 
vernment, is  a  couamon  word  :  ex.  gr.  sutiskur  nisi, 
the  government  of  men  :  sutishur  niutsi  mie,  the  care 
or  due  regulation  of  the  watercourses  (Birs  Nimrud, 
co!,  i.  32),  etc.  Hence  conies  mustishir,  a  governor, 
and  the  verb  ustishir,  I  set  in  order,  etc- 

La  likhi,  are  things  or  persons  not  warlike^  or  not 
f^onnected  with  arms  and  victory :    from  I'lhu  or  Hkhu, 


172 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIES. 


which  occurs  in  the  sense  of  wan-ior  or  congueror,  as 
in  the  name  of  King  Ashur-hhu  (Ashur  the  Warrior : 
or,  Ashur  is  victorious),  who  had  another  name,  Ashur- 
tzu  of  the  same  import.  Other  persons  had  similar 
names,  as  San-tzu,  Nebo-tzu,  in  honour  of  the  gods 
San  and  Nebo.  When  a  king  relates  the  capture  of  a 
city,  he  generally  adds  likki-suu  ashbit,  '*  I  seized  their 
likhi,"  perhaps  their  warriors. 

La  kabalat  (or  perhaps  we  should  read,  la  kabalin), 
has  much  the  same  meaning ;  unwarlike  things  or  per- 
sons, affairs  of  peace,  or,  as  we  should  say,  *' civil  af- 
fairs," in  contradistinction  to  "military"  ones.  (The 
latter  had  in  Assyria  a  vast  prominence,)  This  expres- 
sion is  derived  from  haboX,  battle,  a  word  of  continual 
occurrence.     Simbu,  they  have  given  ;  inni,  to  me. 

N.B.  The  cuneiform  sign  for  in  has  heen  misprinted, 
that  for  sar  (a  king)  having  been  substituted  for  it.  I 
do  not  find  a  verb  simbu  in  Hebrew ;  but  perhaps  it 
was  pronounced  subu  (as  the  came  of  the  god  IM  was 
was  also  sometimes  pronounced  HU  or  Uj. 

Subu,  would  be,  "  they  gave  abundantly,"  from 
Hebrew  jntl?,  satiare,  to  fill  full ;  which  is  followed  by 
a  double  accusative  of  the  person  and  thing.  (See  Ge- 
senius's  Lexicon,  p.  955.  To  save  trouble  to  scholars 
who  may  wish  to  verify  the  Hebrew  words  quoted  in 
this  paper,  I  add  the  page  in  which  they  are  to  be 
found.  The  edition  employed  is  the  Latin  one,  Leip- 
zig. 1833.) 

Kaship  I  translate  "  money,"  from  m?n.  kasheb,  to 
compute  or  to  count  (Gesenius,  377).  So  also  in  mo- 
dern Arabic,  but  pronounced  hasheb.  Doubtless  from 
from  the  same  root  as  CD3,  kaspa,  "silver,"  also  used 
in  Hebrew  for  "money"  generally.     So,  in  French, 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIBS. 


argent  means  "  moaey,"   whether  it  be  of  silver  or 
not. 

Jr  shagu,  "the  city  itself;''  but  we  may  more  con- 
veniently translate  "  this  city." 

Ki,  with  ;  pi,  a  voice,  Hebrew  ^E.  We  say  "  a  vote," 
but  the  French,  une  voir.  Compter  ks  voix,  to  count 
the  votes ;  plurality  das  voir,  etc.  So  the  Germans 
say  Stimme  (a  voice),  in  the  sense  of  a  vote.  Einstim- 
Tiiiff,  with  one  voice ;  una  ore,  unanimous.  Stimmen- 
tnebrheit,  majority  of  votes,  etc. 
I        Ummuli,   same,   similar,   unanimous :    from  ummaf 

similiter.     The  sign  *f-  is  an  error  of  transcription 

forgr 

I       In  another  inscription  the  king  imposes  a  tribute  on 

the  provinces  with  an  equal  (ummct/t)  hand ;  tliat  i&, 

fairly  and  justly. 
I        Sha,  which.     Yaman-U'Su,   they  decreed  it  :    from 

«imffn,  pN,  to  affirm  or  ratify.     H^tiW,  amana,  statu- 

"tum,  decretum. 
I         Wetaru,    I    restored ;    ana    inni-sun,    according   to 
*heir  prayers.     Here  some  obscurity  arises  from  the 

ambiguity  of  the  sign  >-TT  which  has,  besides  its  usual 

"value  of  Bel,  a  Lord,  two  others,  namely  in  and  ad.  I 
bave  here  supposed  in  to  be  its  value,  in  which  case 

the  plural  >TT  T^  will  be  inni,  signifying  prayers, 

Hebrew  TT!,  hin  {"■  preces,"  Gesenius,  353.)  But  it  may 

bereadarf;  and  if  so,  the  plural  >-TT  T^    will  be 

"^^at.  This  also  offers  a  convenient  sense ;  for  it  may 
'je  the  Hebrew  fTnj^,  adut,  law ;  whi^jh  would  give  the 
reading, — 


174 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIES. 


Kaapa  u  iakahar  ana  adut-sun  wetaru. 

1  restored  the  silver  and  copper  coins  to  their  lawful  value. 


Perhaps  base  coin  had  been  issued  during  the  trou- 
bles which  preceded  Sargon's  accession  to  the  throne, 
for  he  was  a  usurper. 

Proceeding  to  the  next  line,  tlie  king  says : — Assu,  I 
made  (Hebrew  asah,  rf^V,  to  make). 

Rikhati,  coins  :  or  pieces  of  stamped  money.  This 
is  the  most  important  word.  I  can  hardly  doubt  that 
it  comes  from  the  Hebrew  J?pn,  rika,  which  means,  to 
strike  metal  with  a  hammer  so  as  to  spread  it  out. 
Gesenius  explains  it,  ttindendo  expandit,  nut  dlduanttttt 
laminam,  mailed.  Hence  the  substantive  D^yp^,  for 
lamintB  of  metal.  Hence  also  the  more  forcible  verb 
piTl,  of  reduplicate  form,  explained  by  Gesenius  tutu- 
dii ;  tundendo  expandit. 

If  these  pieces  of  silver  and  copper,  used  for  money, 
were  not  coins,  but  pieces  of  given  weight,  to  what 
purpose  should  they  be  beaten  or  spread  out  with 
hammers?  If  they  were  not  coins,  they  were  lamxnm ; 
but  surely  such  would  be  inconvenient  in  practice^  and 
uosuited  to  the  affairs  of  life. 

La  rusie,  "  not  made  of  gold."  Rusk,  golden,  is  a 
common  word  :  it  much  resembles  the  Greek  ypvaot. 

Sha  kaship,  *'  which  money  ;"  asibut,  "  the  irihabi- 
tants ;"  la  tstbu,  did  not  wish  for.  This  important 
word  is  the  Chaldean  tsiba,  N^,  to  wish  (see  Gesenius, 
p.  852),  whence  the  substantive  tsihu,  133,  a  wish-  The 
Hebrew  takes  the  form  ma,  to  wish  :  usually  substi- 
tuting rr  for  the  Chaldee  H.  I  first  perceived  the 
meaning  of  this  word,  in  an  interesting  passage  in  one 
of  the  AohBemenian  inscriptions  (Westergaard's  H,  line 


ON    ASSYIUAN     ANTIQUITIES. 


175 


I 


20),  in  which  Darius^  after  enumerating  many  of  the 
nations  of  his  extended  empire,  adds : 

TSIBBU  aha  anaku  bilemi  ushkunussrm. 

Thky  "wisBEp  that  I  slmuld  enact  kw5  for  tliem- 

This  agrees  with  the  epithet  the  AchEemenian  kings 
t>estow  upon  themselves,  "  the  great  lawgiver."  As 
to  the  assertion  which  the  king  here  makes,  viz.  that 
the  people  did  not  wish  for  gold  coin,  the  fact  probahly 
"^as,  that  he  had  himself  taken  all  the  gold  and  em- 
ployed it  for  bis  own  aggrandisement, 

A^b  mikhar,  osib  akhar,  "the  present  and  future 

inhabitant,  or  citizen,"  appears  to  be  in  the  singular 

xnumber.     Perhaps  we  ought  to  add  plural  endings  to 

the  whole,  as  the  words  in  these  inscriptions  are  fre- 

«3uently  written  short  in  order  to  save  space  and  trouble 

But  the  sense  would  remain  the  same. 

I  think   mikhar  means  present.     The   preposition 

tkhrat,  "  opposite/'  or  '*  near  to,  and.  by  the  s.ide  of," 

is  very  common.     So  in  German,  dip  Gegenwart  or 

^egenwfirtige  Zeit,  "  the  present  time,"  is  derived  from 

the  preposition  yegen,  "  opposite."     The  Greeks  use 

-rxapat  as  TTapeovra,  "  things  present)"  in  Homer, 

Akhar  is  Hebrew  'inN,  sequens  :  posterior.    n'''in'N, 

okharith,  po&teri ;  posterity  or  future  generations  (Ge- 

eeuias,  41).     So  dur  ftkltaron,  letas  postera  (Ps.  xlviii. 

H];  yom  akkaron,  tempus  posterum  (Prov.  xxxl.  25). 

The  phrases  weshagila  panussun  and  panu-sun  attan 

have  the  same  meaning,  viz.  *'  I  gave   it  to  them  in 

lull  possession."  These  phrases  occur  very  commonly. 

Attan^  I  gave  :    first  person  singular  of  the  verb 

tdtan,  to  give,  Hebrew  \p,2.     The  Hebrew   language 

alio  rejects  the  initial  n  of  this  verb  (as  well  as  of  most 


of  writing. 


176 


OH    ABSVftMN    ANTlQUtTl&S. 


Others  which  begin  with  n)  from  several  of  the  moods 

and  tenses.     Thus  ]ru  has  for  its  future  ^n"^,  and  for 
its  imperative  p,  tan^  or  nSJi,  tanah, 

Sunuti,  unto  them  ;  panu-sun,  as  their  property. 


(2.)  Temple  Worship. 

Immedtately  after  this,  follows  a  very  curious 
difficult  passage.  The  king,  still  speaking  of  his  civil 
rule  and  his  wish  to  promote  the  welfare  of  the  citi- 
zens, continues  thus  (line  43) : — 

AUu  banie-iu  mikhrai  ukau; 
vol  ana  >>J     ,  .  .  .  ga 

U  »j  '  Babelaili  invUi  niehaeii  taliujU 
aa  timiki  weakakki. 

The  meaning;  of  which  I  believe  to  be ; 

1  watched  over  (or  protected)  their  female  children  until 
tliey  married.  I  would  not  permit  handsome  damsels  of  the 
upper  classes  to  offer  prayers  and  supplications  in  the  temple 
of  the  Babylonian  goddess. 

The  first  clause  is  obscure.  The  verb  ahu  is  un- 
known to  me ;  but  if  il  is  the  same  as  otsu,  it  implies 
kindness.  Compare  the  phrase  rima  arsi-9w,  "  I  pitied 
him,"     I  have  therefore  translated  it,  "  1  protected." 

Uksu,  literally,  "  they  were  veiled.''  nOD,  kn^ah, 
to  veil  oneaelf  (Genesis  xxxviii.  14,  etc.);  jTtC'D,  kasut, 
a  veil.  This  word  occurs  in  Genesis  xx.  16:  kasttt 
ainim,  a  veil  over  the  eyes.  The  interpreters  under- 
stand that  passage  to  mean,  that  Abimelech  gave 
Sarah  one  thousand  shekels  to  purchase  a  veil,  that  all 
might  see  she  was  a  married  woman  {ttt  omnibus  pateat 


ON    A8BVBIAN    ANTlQUltlBS. 


177 


te  exse  marito  mtptam).     Gesenius  disapproves  of  this 

ifiterpretation,  but  it  seems  to  be  borne  out  by  this  As- 
syriati  text.  If  so,  we  may  translate  uksu,  "  they  were 
married.'* 

In  the  name  of  the  second   goddess  the  sign  sar 
seems  to  be  an  error  of  transcription  for  the  usual  bab. 

The  name  of  the  city  Babylon,  with  TI  TX  added, 

B     ^s  used  for  Babylonian;  but  here  we  find  the  feminine 

M    ending  ait  or  aiti  (as  in  Kar-Sarginaiti),  and  therefore 

"«vith  »J     prefixed  it  means  a  Babylonian  goddess. 

JK*robably  Mylitta  was  meant- 
■  Imiti,  or  enuti,  fern.  plur.  "beautiful:"  from  ^n,  or 

"^  *t^  gratia,  pulchritudo  :  as  ]rT   plf4,  lapis  pulcher,  a 

I^orecious  stone  ;  pi  Sryy,  rupicapra  vennsia  (Gesen.  336 

-^md  353). 
f  ^3m  "^Zl,  beni  hinni,  handsome  children  (Buxtorf, 

(Similarly  a  woman  H  said  to  be  saphirat  hin,  "  ele- 
^ans,  vel  gratia  prsedita  "  (ibid.), 
Nishacti,  women :  fern,  of  nishi,  men.  So  in  the 
^fcast  India  House  inscription,  where  a  new  palace  is 
Viuilt,  and  the  prayer  is  uttered,  "  May  this  palace  ever 
tie  inhabited  by  a  race  of  warlike  kings,  and  of  vir- 
tuous women,  their  queens  !"  kalati  niskaeti,  bilat-zun ; 
where  kalati  is  the  fern,  plur.  of  Hebrew  Tn,  virtuous  i 
w.yr.  *rT!  nxi?M.  uxor  proba  (Ruth  iii.  11). 

Taliuni,  of  the  higher  ranks  :  plural  of  feminine  form, 
f^rom  Hebrew  aiiun,  Vi'hy,  superior. 

Timiki  is  used  for  prayers  to  the  goda  in  Tiglath 
Pileser,  viii.  26  :  timik  ikribi-ya  tishmiu  !  "  may  they 
l^ear  the  voice  of  ray  prayers!"  It  is  used  for  tears 
^d  supplications  addressed  to  a  monarch,  in  Botta, 

POL.   VII.  N 


1 


m 


ON    ASSYRIAN     ANTIQUITIES. 


pi.  151,  last  line:  In  tzupie  u  timiki  weisalla  annima, 
"  he  besought  me  with  sighs  and  tears."  Wetsalla  is 
from  Hebrew  taala,  M72,  oraoit :  precatus  est. 

The  etymology  of  timiki  is  perhaps  from  Hebrew 
yyyi  or  ni^rn,  lacryma  (in  case  the  y  in  this  word  had 
the  force  of  gkain). 

Weshakki.  This  verb  is  employed  iu  many  senses. 
I  have  rendered  it  provisionally,  "  to  permit.'' 

(3.)  Autfuries. 

In  the  same  inscription  (line  45)  we  read,  that  when 
Sarginawas  about  to  build  his  palace  at  Khor&abad  (in 
the  ruins  of  which  so  many  rare  antirjuities  have  been 
found)  he  consulted  the  prophets  and  augurs,  Tliey 
named,  most  probably,  some  lucky  day  for  laying  the 
foundation-stone  of  the  building.  But,  what  is  very 
curious,  we  find  that  the  king  was  prompted  by  a  su- 
perstitious feeling  to  build  the  palace  of  such  a  size 
that  the  number  of  cubits  contained  ia  its  area  corre- 
sponded exactly  with  the  number  of  his  own  name  1 
— so  ancient  was  the  idea  that  the  letters  in  a  man's 
name,  translated  into  numbers,  had  a  mysterious  in- 
fluence over  his  destiny,  and  so  far  was  it  from  being 
only  a  late  Jewish  superstition.  It  follows  that  Sargina 
must  have  used  habitually  an  alphabetic  and  not  the 
cuneiform  writing  ;  for  can  we  suppose  that  numerical 
values  attached  to  all  the  cuneiform  signs,  so  that  a 
cuneiform  name  could  be  read  with  certainty  as  a 
number? 

I  will  now  adduce  the  origiual  passag:es,  and  analyze 
them. 

[Line  45.]  .  .  .  .  ki  uthuni  eft  nabi  Makri  bieli-ya  maha/Uh 
ik/iihu,  epiih  ir  khirie  [nahli]  yckbtmi. 


ON    AS9YBIAN    ANTIQUITIES. 


179 


I 
I 


[46]  nannimaasun  la  mmpili  la  takilu  bakhulati-ya  gashati 
atkiC)  malthu  mimkki  weskasai. 

[45]  From  their  auguries,  on  (wbich)  the  prophiets  of  the 
gods  my  lords  greatly  relied,  they  commanded  me  to  build 
my  city  by  the  stream  of  n  river. 

[46]  In  obedience  to  their  oracles,  which  never  fall  to  the 
ground,  and  which  are  never  deceitful,  I  assembled  my  gallant 
^ctldiera^  and  selected  a  va3t  number  of  captive*. 

The  account  then  goes  on  to  describe  the  building, 
'^'hich  was  reared  mainly  by  the  labour  of  these  cap- 
tives; the  soldiers  were  there  to  guard  them.  Some- 
times however  we  find  the  soldiers  themselves  at  work 
fcy  the  king's  order. 

I  pass  to  the  examination  of  the  words  of  the  text. 
Utkuni:  Hebrew  utzun  or  kaizun,  'I'lTn,  visio  divina, 
»-evelatio  divinttt  oraculum,  Daniel  i.  17,  etc,  (Gesenius, 
13.  3283. 

Eli,  prep.  upon. 

Nabi,  prophets:  the  same  in  Hebrew. 
Makri,  the  gods;  properly  "  their  majesties."    This 
^vord  is  not  so  common  as  ilu;  hut  in  the  great  ia- 
scriptioD  of  the  East  India  House,   Nebuchadnezzar 
"prepares  a  splendid  gift  for  his  god  Marduk,  and  then 
brings  it  to  Babylon,  and  dedicates  it  "  to  Iiis  ma- 
jesty," Makri'su.     Another  inscription  about  a  temple 
ends  with  a  prayer  to  the  god:  "This  building  may 
thy  majesty  protect !"  UUuru  Makkar-ha  !     I  am  ra- 
tter inclined  to  think  that  the  Greeks  took  hence  their 
UoKapet  &mi  ai&f  eorrer,  at   least   the  Greek  language 
iUelf  affords  no  etymon  for  fiaKap. 

The  other  words  in  this  line  are  of  frequent  occur- 
recice.  A  river  is  denoted  by  a  special  symbol.  I 
have  therefore  substituted  the  Hebrew  7113,  which  oc- 
ciUf  sometimes  in  the  inscriptions. 


180 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIES. 


In  line  46,  nannimassun,  tnay  be  thus  analyzed  : — 
The  preposition  ana,  when  it  begins  a  sentence,  is 
often  shortened  into  na,  from  rapid  pronunciation,  as 
na  skatth  for  ana  shatti,  "  in  honour  of."  Hence  the 
word  is  mta-atinima-suni  "according  to  their  oracles." 
Annam  is  Assyrian  for  the  Hebrew  annan,  an  oracle, 
pV,  augitrans,  divinans :  prasstigius fecit :  artlbui  magicU 
usus  est  (Gesenius,  783). 

This  change  of  m  and  n  is  frequent.  We  find,  for 
instance,  the  Hebrew  p3i*  changed  to  poy  in  Assyrian. 

We  see  that  annfmn-suTi  was  pronounced  nnnmtts«u)t, 
so  panu-suut  panussun  (belonging  to  them). 

AskkuTiu-sun,  ashkunussun  (I  appointed  for  them). 

This  illustrates  the  doctrine  of  enclitic  particles  in 
Greek.  The  final  sun  had  no  accent,  consequently  a 
strong  accent  fell  on  the  penultimate  syllable. 

La  muspili,  which  never  falls  to  the  ground  ;  from 
7£3ti?.  This  verb  is  applied  in  Daniel  v.  19,  and  vii. 
24,  to  kings  overthrown  and  fallen  (Gesenius,  1033). 

La  takiluy "  which  are  never  deceitful  :"  from  naAra/, 
733,  to  deceive  (Gesenius,  G68).  This  verb  must  be 
carefully  distinguished  from  7Jn,  in  Syriac,  "to  hope," 
"to  trust."  This  latter  verb  is  very  comniOD  in  Assyrian, 
as  wetakkil,  1  trusted;  ittaklu,  they  trusted,  etc.  One 
of  the  ancestors  of  Tiglath  Pileser  was  called  Mutakkil 
Nebo,  "  the  truster  in  Nebo."  And  there  is  a  statuf 
of  Nebo  in  the  British  Museum  which  contains 
prayer  for  the  health  of  King  Pul  and  his  wife  Semi- 
ramis  H.,  in  which  the  god  is  invoked  by  the  title 
of  ,Neho-natkil,  "Nebo  the  Refuge,  or  the  god  oo 
whom  we  trust.''  Compare  the  modern  Madonna  del 
soccorso.  But  verbs  so  nearly  resembling  in  sound, 
yet  differing  widely  in  meaning,  must  sometimes  have 
given  rise  to  equivoques.     And  in  this  instance  there 


ON    ASSYRIAH    ANTKtUJtlEa. 


181 


I 
I 


seems  to  be  an  intentional  play  on  words  in  the  Etatue 
of  Nebo  aforesaid  ;  I  mean  the  passage  where  he  is 
called —  ,  , 

Nebo  nafW,  ilu  sha  nim  la  iihtakHl. 

Nebo  the  refuge,  the  god  who  never  deceives. 

Bakhulati  are  generally  "  young  soldiers,"  but  some- 
"ftimes  only  "  young  men."  Gaskati,  valiant ;  and  atleie, 
1  assembled,  occur  frequently. 

Maithu,  an  abundance :  from  Hebrew  vho,  to  be 
'^uU,  to  abound. 

Mttsikki,  captives,  occurs  very  frequently.  The 
■etymology  is  rather  obscure,  but  I  think  it  must  be 
-*rom  pm,  hesek,  to  bind  strongly, 

Weshassi,  or  weshatsi,  means  "I  separated  some 

"things  from  others ;"  probably  from  TTSn,  khatsek^  in 

—Assyrian  shatzek,  to  cut  off,  divide,  or  separate.    Thus 

(hen  the  King  leaves  his  chariots  behind,  on  account 

of  the  badness  of  the  mountain  roads,  he  says  :  Ana 

^ikkaii  weshassi,  "  I  separated  them,  and  left  them  on 

"^be  plain." 

N.B.  In  this  word  the  last  sign  ^^^  is  an  error  of 

traDScription  for  ^T^~ 

I  now  proceed  to  another  portion  of  the  text  (line 
55),  where  we  find  a  series  of  numbers.  The  sign  <Qf 
is  four  times  repeated,  then  T<(  three  times  ;  then  fol- 
low one  vas  (or  svs),  three  kani,  and  two  Aw,  which 
Wl  we  know  to  be  cubUs,  since  the  word  is  explained 
liy  mma  in  the  East  India  House  inscription  (Hebrew 
ammo.  nDT2M,  a  cubit). 

!  am  unable  to  say  what  sum  these  numerals  when 
added  together  amount  to.     But  there  immediately 


183 


ON    ASSYRIAN    ANTIQUITIES- 


follows,  Nihit  mu-x;a,  "the  number  of  my  name/' 
mmkkti  Hl-su  askkunu,  "  I  determined  should  be  the 
measure  of  the  palace."' 

Nihit  IB  sometimes  used  for  name  (as  ashlnra  nibit- 
zii),  and  sometimes  for  number,  as  in  the  phrase,  /a 
nibi,  numberless. 

Mu,  a  name,  occurs  very  frequently.  It  interchanges 
with  Sumu  (Hebrew  nu?,  a  name).  In  fact  mu  may 
have  been  an  old  Hamitic  word  which  continued  to  be 
written  so,  though  pronounced  sumu.  This  however 
is  of  no  importance. 

Misikhii,  the  measure,  from  Hebrew  misikk,  TTM^O, 
mensus  est :  mensuravit  (Gesenius,  625). 

BelUno,  line  52,  amsukh  misikhta^  I  measured  the 
measure. 

Til,  is  sometimes  a  vast  building ;  sometimes  the 
platform  on  which  it  stands. 

Askkunu,  I  fixed,  established,  settled,  etc.,  is  a  very 
common  verb.  It  is  the  Hebrew  pU?,  but  the  mean- 
ing is  more  forcible. 

The  ^'number  of  a  man's  name"  brings  to  mind  a 
passage  in  the  Apocalypse. 

Returning  once  more  to  the  passage  quoted  from 
one  of  the  Ach^menian  inscriptions,  where  Darius 
says  that  the  nations  wished  him  to  enact  laws  for 
them,  it  recalls  to  mind  the  very  similar  passage  of 
Virgil,  in  praise  of  Augustus  : — 

"  Vifitorque  vavKNtts. 

Per  pOpuloB  DAT    JDttB." 

Geor^.  W.  561. 

I  have  translated  Lihu  {line  40)  a  Warrior  or  Con- 
queror. In  support  of  this  I  may  refer  to  line  ^2\  of 
this  iuscription,  where  Sargon  calls  himself  the  Lihu 
(or  conqueror)  of  the  Pirates  of  the  Ionian  Sea. 


183 


VII.-PRELIMINARY    TRANSLATIONS    OF  ASSYRIAN 
INSCRIPTIONS. 

BT    H.    F.    TALBOT,    V.P.E.H.L. 

(Read  March  13th,  1861.) 

ns  it  would  be  a  work  of  considerable  time  and  diffi- 
culty to  give  a  full  analysis,  with  critical  and  gram- 
matical notes,  of  the  numerous  inscriptions  which  the 
■British  Museum  possesses,  I  have  thought  it  might  be 
interesting  to  the  Society,  if  I  were  to  select  a  few  of 
'^m,  and  to  give  an  English  translation  of  them.    At 
®  future  time  this  might  be  made  more  complete,  and 
^'Ivjstrated  with  more  copious  notes. 


^  •  Tke  Inscription  on  the  Monolith  of  Ashurakhhal,  now 
preserved  in  the  British  Museum. 

AsHUR,  the  great  Lord,  king  of  the  whole  of  the  great 
Sods. 

Anu,  the  exalted  king,  hestower  of 

BiTA,  king  of  the  Ocean,  lord  of  kings,  the  (mystical) 
*lying-fish. 

San,  the  sovereign,  lord  of  crowns  full  of  splendours. 

Mabduk,  lord  of 

Yem,  the  king, of  the  exalted  gods. 

Bab  (or  Ninev),  hero  of  heroes destroyer  of  here- 
tics. 

Nebo,  the  Judge,  who  carries  the  golden  sceptre. 

VOL.   VII.  O 


184 


PRELIMINABY    TRANSLATIONS    OF 


MuBiLu  {MyriUa?^)r  lady  of  the  worldj  wife  of  Bel,  and 
mother  of  the  great  gods. 

Tlic  god  ....  king  of  War. 

BfiL,  the  highly  exalted  :  father  of  the  gods :  the  sire  who 
created  nae. 

The  SoNj  ruler  of  Heaven  and  Earth,  inspector  of  the 
universe. 

IsHTAtij  queen  of  heaven  and  earth,  who  is  the  leader  of 
all  heroism. 

These  great  gods  are  the  givers  of  crowns,  aud  tbey  are 
the  supporters  of  all  lloyalty. 

The  former  city  of  Calah,  which  Divanurish,  king  of 
AssjTia,  my  ancestor,  had  built ;  that  city  had  fallen  to  de- 
cay, and  its  buildings  had  sunk  into  ruins  and  rubbish.  Tliat 
city  I  built  again.  And  I  dug  a  canal  from  the  Upper  Zaii 
river,  and  I  gave  it  the  name  of  {BabUat  kainh)  the  Babil&t 
caiiaL  And  I  planted  beautiful  trees  along  its  banks,  and 
trees  of  utility  for  every  kind  of  work. 

The  best  of  them  I  kept  for  Aahur  my  Lord  and  tlie  god- 
desses of  my  country.  I  erected  palaces  with  them,  and  from 
the  foundatioa  to  the  roof  I  built  and  1  finished  them,  A 
palace  for  my  royal  residence  and  for  an  eternal  remembrance 
of  my  reign,  I  founded  within  the  city.  I  adorned  it:  I 
enlarged  it:  and  with  images  of  bright  copper  I  embellished 
it.     I  then  made  columiis,  adorned  with  noble  carvings. 

With  nails  of  bronze  I  fastened  them  together,  and  I  placed 
tlieni  at  the  gates. 

Thrones  of  cedar  and  various  other  precions  woods  \  orna- 
mental ivories,  skilfully  carved;  heaps  of  silver,  gold,  lead, 
copper,  and  iron,  the  spoils  gained  by  my  valour,  wbicb  i  had 
brought  away  from  the  nations  I  had  conquered :  all  these  - 
treasures  1  deposited  nHltliin  it.  I 

The  king  of  future  days  who  shall  restore  its  ornaments, 
and  shall  replace  the  written  tablets  in  their  places,  Ashur 
will  bear  his  prayers  ! 

'  Compare  the  Homeric  fivpamvi,  evidently  an  Astncie  ^ddeas* 
worshipped  by  the  Trojans. 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRilLTlOKS 


That  good  king  shall  never  fly  before  his  enemies,  nor 
abandon  this  palace,  my  royal  dwelling,  in  the  city  of  Calah. 
Its  columns,  its  rooTsj  its  splendid  images,  which  are  now 
fixed  up  nithin  it,  shall  not  be  destroyed.  They  shall  not  be 
removed  to  the  city  of  his  enemies,  nor  to  the  palace  of  hjs 
foes.  Its  roof^  shall  not  be  broken  down,  its  images  shall 
xiot  be  torn  off,  the  sources  of  the  springs  which  supply  it 
■%nth  water  shall  not  be  cut  off,  and  its  gate  shall  not  be 
Cthrotcn  down?).  Its  chambers  of  treasure  sliidl  not  be  plun- 
dered. Its  closed  apartments  (or  harem)  shall  not  he  burst 
«Dpeii  with  Violence.  The  women,  residing  in  it,  of  the  double 
service,'  shall  not  be  insulted,  nor  with  unseemly  shameful 
^nd  immodest  treatment  be  dragged  away  to  the  enemy's 
j>a!ace,  during  the  destruction  and  downfall  of  their  own  city. 

The  kirifr,  who  shall  not  injure  my  palace who 

^ball  not  suffer  the  front  of  my  throne  and  my  royal  dwell- 
ing-place to  be  broken,  who  shall  spare  {Le.  protect)  the  face 
«r  these  ray  written  tablets,  and  shall  not  hurt  the  clay  re- 
<ords  of  my  reign  ;  May  Ashur,  chief  of  the  great  gods,  who 
is  the  supporter  of  my  kingdom,  uphold  hia  power  over  all 
the  nations,  and  cause  them  to  bow  down  before  the  steps  of 
hia  throne,  and  the  seat  of  his  royalty  1     May  he  subject  the 
country  of  the  four  nations  to  his  arms !  and  pour  abundant 
glory  over  his  land  during  long  cycles  of  years  1 

But  he  who  shall  not  spare  the  face  of  these  my  tablets, 
who  shall  injure  the  clay  records  of  my  reign,  who  shall  de- 
stroy these  sculptures  and  tlieir  descriptions,  or  tear  them 
off,  or  break  them  in  pieces,  or  bury  them  in  the  ashes,  or 
Wn  with  fire,  or  drown  them  in  the  waters,  or  who  shall  re- 
move them  from  their  place  and  shall  throw  them  down  where 
they  will  be  trampled  on  by  animals,  and  shall  place  them  in 
the  pathway  of  the  young  cattle :  or  who  shall  falsify  my 
day  tablets,  which  are  now  sculptured  with  all  manner  of 
good  and  pious  words,  and  shall  write  on  the  face  of  my  re- 

'  i>.  Those  serving  the  gotls  and  those  serving-  the  Icing,  iis  appear* 
from  other  inftcri[>tit>tLB.  Here  briefly  called  btl  Isiiiilti.  "  llie  double 
liousfbold." 

o  2 


1S6 


PRELIMINAItY   TRANSLATlONa    OF 


cords  anything  that  is  bad  and  im])iou3:  or  in  the  place  of 
these  clay  tablets  shall  make  other  new  ones  hostile  tt*  me, 
or  heretical:  or  shali  hide  mine  away  either  in  a  locked-up 
apartmentj  or  in  some  dark  place  ....  or  shall  damage  the 
ivory  ornaments  with  fire:  or,  for  the  sake  of  injuring  these 
my  tablets  and  writings,  shall  change  their  divisions  for  new- 
ones,  or  shalL  make  alterations  in  them,  so  as  to  confound 
their  meaning :  whether  he  be  a  noblemiun,  or  a  military  man, 
or  any  one  else  of  my  subjects 

He  who  shall  not  spare  them  but  Bhall  traTnple  on  tbem, 
or  who  shall  deface  and  destroy  them»  or  who  shall  scratch 
any  words  of  derision,  Upon  my  works,  or  shall  change  ray 
name  on  the  sculptures  for  his  own;  J 

May  Ashur,  the  great  Lord,  the  god  of  Assyria,  the  lord  of 
all  royal  crownsj  curse  his  reign  and  destroy  his    works! 
May  he  shake  the  foundations  of  his  kingdom  !  May  his  own 
blood-relations  and  his  dearest  friends  be  those  who  ahoU 
admit  his  foes  into  his  kingdom  l^ 


2.  The  Stone  of  Zaalek^ 

In  attempting  to  interpret  this  curious  inscription 
on  a  black  stone,  found  twelve  miles  from  Babylon, 
there  is  a  difficulty,  owing  to  the  fractured  state  of  the 
atone,  and  the  obscurity  of  the  subject  to  which  it 
relates.  I  will  therefore  make  a  few  preliminary  re- 
marks before  attempting  a  version. 

It  isa^ra^'u^orbond,  by  which  certain  parties  bound 
themselves  {wezakku)  towards  one  another.  This  word 
19  the  Hebrew  sak,  p^,  Jirmiter  obliguvit,  which  has  a 
reduplicate  or  more  forcible  form.ppT  (seeGes.  p.  310). 

The  fourth  line  contains  tlie  designation  of  the  par- 
ties. They  were  probably  the  members  of  two  rival 
trades  in  Babylon,  but  the  terms  employed  to  express 

*  This  iiiscrijiLiun  contains  a  few  more  lines,  but  they  ore  much 
defaced.  *  B.  M.,  pi.  66  of  the  new  volume. 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS. 

them  are  unknown  to  me.  Most  likely  they  were 
sailors  or  boatmen  who  dwelt  on  the  borders  of  the 
river  :  sha  pi  nahal  zalani,  col.  ii.  line  2,  where  ''E3  an- 
swers not  only  to  08j  oris  in  Latin,  but  to  ora,  a  border. 
Or  they  may  have  been  two  rival  factions  in  the  city. 
I  think  they  wore  dresses  {kaliie)  of  different  colours 
as  party  emblems.  One  may  have  been  light  blue,  as 
denoted  by  the  sign  for"  water;"  while  the  other  party 
wore  dyed  dresses  {thabali,  from  Heb,  7213,  Ges.  384. 
KalUe  J  would  derive  from  khnlul). 

If  we  remember  tlie  violent  and  bloody  quarrels 
which  often  occurred  at  Constantinople  during  the 
Byzantine  empire,  and  which  are  related  by  Gibbon^ 
between  the  diiferent  colours  into  which  that  factious 
city  was  divided,  my  conjecture  will  perhaps  not  be 
thought  improbable. 

By  this  bond  they  bound  themselves  no  longer  to 
wear  these  distinctive  dresses  {la  nasha  sun,  "  not  to 
wear  them  "),  in  order  not  to  create  heats  and  animo- 
sities.   Perhaps  this  was  done  by  command  of  the  king, 
and  was  therefore  one  of  his  very  first  acts  on  assuming 
the  reins  of  government.     But  the  next  line  is  frac- 
tured, and  there  only  remains  "...  of  the  king." 


lyanslalion. 

The  Bnnd,  by  which,  in  the  city  of  Babylon,  in  the  month 
"sli  of  the  first  year  of  Marduk-haddoii,  the  great  king;  the 
People  calted  ( ),  and  those  called  ( ),  bound  them- 
selves; with  respect  to  their  distinctive  dresses  of  lif/fii  biue 
8nii  dijed  stuffs — no  longer  to  wear  them — in  order  nut  to 
^if^ile  heats  and  aiiiniosities  [in  ubed'tenee  to  the  commands  y) 
of  the  lung. 

A  long  fracture  of  the  stone  here  interrupts  the  sense  : 


188 


PRELIMINARY   TRANSLATIONS    OF 


it  evidently  contained  the  names  of  numerous  persons ; 
for  the  second  column,  which  is  perfect^  begins  with 
the  words — 

And  all  the  others  who  dwell  by  the  riverside,  unto  the 
man  (A),  son  of  (B),  have  bound  themselves  firmly  for  ever. 
At  the  affixing  the  seal  to  this  Pi,  or  declaration  (■sg),  the 
following  persons  were  present: — 

(....)    son   of  Bita-adanna   {Le.  Bita   gave  him),  judge 

[thaphati  liBty)  "f  the  city  Iain* 
Babilaya  (*,*■■  the  BahylQnJan),  son  of  (.  .  .  ,). 
Bagatiaddon^  son  of  NigatsL,  a  ahakrua.^ 
Kbigaship-Marduk,  sun  of  In-beth-shaggathu-zir-ashbit. 
Ardi-Nunaya  (i.e.  worshipper  of  the  goddess  Nanaya],  son 

of  (....). 
Nebo-ramzir  (i.e.  N"eho  sustains  the  race,  or   loves   the 
family),  son  of  Ardi-Dita-Belnam  (worshipper  of  Bita 
the  glorious?). 
And  Nebo-haddnn,  son  of  Namri  : 
and  they  all  confirmed  it  of  their  unantmoufi  will. 

[Done  trt)  Babylon,  in  the  month  Ash,  in  tlie  first  year  uF 
Marduk-lladdon  the  great  king,  and  sealed  with  the  great 
seal  of  the  king  who  is  recently  dead. 


Qbtervations. 

Among  the  witnesses  is  found  a  name  which  also 
occurs  upon  tlie  stone  of  Michaux,  thus  identifying  the 
epoch  of  the  latter. 

This  bond  must  have  been  executed  at  the  very 
commencement  of  the  king's  reign,  for  we  see  he 
had  not  had  time  to  have  his  own  great  seal  made. 
He  therefore  probably  succeeded  unexpectedly  to  his 
father. 

This  inscription  supplies  a  Hebrew  etymology,  which 

^  Probablv  the  name  of  some  trade. 


rnay  be  worth  noticing.     Weza^'ku  or  hezftkhi  (they 

(bound)  is  ]>Iainly  the  Hebrew  prn,  to  bind  firmly  ;  and 
jsaA'ut  is  the  Hebrew  pT.     But  in  the  phrase  zakui  he- 
sttA'ku  the  two  terms  have  surely  the  same  origin  ;  and 
therefore  the  Hebrew  pi  and  pin  have  the  same  origin  : 
in  fact  they  differ  only  by  a  breathing.     But  Gesenius 
tloes  not  notice  the  connection.    An  intermediate  form 
is   the  Chaldee  DV^M,  azukkim  (bonds).     I  think  this 
leads  us  to  a  new  interpretation  of  the  illustrious  name 
Ksi^f  Hezekiah,  generally  rendered  robuT  Jehovee.    It  may 
:»:-jiean,  "he  who  is  bound  to  Jehovah,''  i.e.  bound  to 
_Jr*is  service  by  oath  or  promise ;  or  else,  "  to  whom 
^Tehovah  is  bound  by  covenant." 

^^H  3.  The  great  Inscription  of  ^abonidus.^ 

H         This  fine  inscription,  of  which  unfortunately  only  a 
B^xnall  portion  remains,  was  found  on  a  barrel  cylinder 
^mom;  the  debris  of  the  great  mound  at  Mugheir,  and 
is  now  in  the  Britisli  Museum. 

From  its  very  remarkable  contents  it  might  be  en- 
titled. "The  Search  for  the  Foundation-stone."  No 
other  inscription  has,  1  believe,  as  yet  turned  up  on  a 
similar  subject. 

First  Fragment,  Col.  I.  11. 

- . . ,  and  with  shining  brass  I  covered  tliem  \_prohably  the 
MtriTOH*],  ant)  at  eacli  of  the  gntes  I  placed  them.  I  com- 
plt'ted  the  buildings  nf  that  temple  of  Tara,  and  I  made  the 
ttm]ile  as  splendid  as  the  Siin.  Fur  the  prosperity  of  my 
Wti  I  gBve  a  share  of  the  spoils  of  my  enemies  to  the  Sun 
^1  Lord.  Oh !  Sun  !  great  Lord !  .  .  . .  together  with  the 
l^^  San  thy  progenitor,  protect  with  thy  sceptre  the  build- 

"  PK  60  of  the  new  volunje. 


190 


PRELIMINARY    TRANSLATIONS    OP 


ings  of  the  temple  of  Shaggathu^  the  temple  of  Ztda,  the 
tenspte  of  the  great  Astikha  tree,  the  temple  of  Tara,  the 
temple  of  Anna,  and  the  temple  of  Valmas,  the  dwelling- 
places  of  their  great  divinities:  and  may  those  royal  edifices 
endure  as  long  as  heaven  itself!  I  pray  thee  to  5x  firmly  in 
the  zealous  hearts  of  the  inhabitants^  veneratinn  and  awe  for 
San,  lord  of  the  goda.  Like  the  duration  of  the  Moon,  may 
its  foundations  stand  fast  for  ever  ! 

I,  Nebo-imduk,  king  of  Babylon  ....  [Me  feat  U  losil. 

Obsei'vations. 

The  name  of  Nabonidus,  or,  more  properly,  Nabo- 
nahid,  signifies  "  Nebo  is  glorious."  But  as  many  of 
his  subjects  spoke  the  old  Hamitic  or  Proto-Chaldean 
language,  and  did  not  understand  Assyrian  words,  the 
king  took  another  name,  Nebo-imduk,  signifying  the 
same  thing  in  the  Hamitic  tongue. 

San  being  the  lunar  god,  the  king  very  properly 
prays  that  the  temple  may  endure  as  long  as  the  moon 
itself:  *'  like  the  life  of  the  moon  may  its  foundations 
last  !" 

The  names  of  the  temples :  shaggathu  signifies 
"  worship  ;"  the  Asukha  tree  was,  1  think,  the  Egj'p- 
tian  sacred  Sycamore,  or  the  equally  sacred  Asoka  of 
India,  now  planted  arouud  temples  ;  aadAnna  signifies 
"  beauty." 

Second  Fragment  {vertj  much  fractured) ,  Col.  I.  43. 

....  in  the  days  of  ... .  who  was  kin^  of  Dabylon  in 
former  times  .  .  . , 

(....)  sou  of  Nabopolassar,  king  of  Babylon  .... 

....  the  Moon  and  the  Sun,  his  lords  .... 

....  the  temple  of  Tara,  which  Burnahuriaali  my  ancestor 
erected  .... 

....  upon  the  platform  [or  originaZ/oundtition]  of  Gurna- 
buriash  .... 


I 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS. 


191 


The  above  U  very  important,  because  the  Museum 

^■possesses  bricks  of  the  time  of  this  King  BurnEihuriash> 

■written  in  Hamitic.     The  rest  is  much  mutilated,  but 

tlie  last  line  of  the  fragment  seems  to  mention  the  tenth 

year  of  some  monarch's  reign. 

Third  Fragment^  Col.  IL  4. 

....  Seven  hundred  years  ....  unto  the  Sun  he  made  it 
[•  '-  .upon  the  original  platform   or  foundation  of  Kham- 

The  bricks  of  this  old  Hamitic  king  are  also  in  the 
Museum.     The  above  sentence  is  fractured,  but  may 
*c   restored  by  comparing  Col.  I.  57.     Tlie  eiga  ^Y 
Ms  the  end  of  the  preposition  eli,  "  upon." 

He  built  anew  the  temple  of  Tara.  With  beams  of  lofty 
<^edar-trees,  from  the  land  of  (. . . .),  its  roofs  he  covered .... 

He  built  it  for  the  Sun,  the  great  Lord,  for  the  prosperity 
**■  his  life  and  the  spoiling  of  his  enecnii^s,  Graiitj  O  Sun  E 
">at  these  six  temples  {the  same  as  before  bvi»ff  mentioned) 
•^ay  last  as  long  as  Heaven  itself! 

I,  Nebo-imduk,  king  of  Babylon^  pray  to  thy  great  divinity 
*«iat  this  temple  may  be  crowned  with  abundant  glory. 

And  Bel-sar-ussur,  ray  eldest  son,  my  rising  hope,  grant 
■*>ini  length  of  days  equal  to  the  life  of  the  Moon  ! 

We  now  come  to  a  long  account  of  a  search  made 
*or  the  sacred  iimin  or  foundation-stone  of  the  temple 
^^  Valmas;  or  rather,  for  its  inscribed  cylinder.     This 

Si^es  a  high  idea  of  the  sacred  feeling  with  which  these 

^J'linders  were  regarded. 

TTic  temple  of  Valmas,  in  the  city  of  Agab. 


This  seems  to  have  contuiiued  a  kind  of  hiatory  of  the  lemiile  uf 


'arti. 


193  PRBLIHINAET   TRANSLATIONS  OF  • 

In  very  ancient  days,  ( )  king  of  Babylon  and  Naram 

Sin  his  son  .... 

I  must  here  draw  attention  to  the  importance  of  this 
record.  The  alabaster  vase  of  the  old  Hamitic  monarch 
Naram  Sin,  is  given  in  the  British  Museum  volume, 
plate  3,  No.  VII.,  but  the  valuable  relic  itself  was  lost  in 
the  river  Tigris.  It  is  unfortunate  that  a  fracture  of  the 
stone  has  deprived  us  of  the  name  of  Naram  Sin's  father. 

The  inscription  continues  thus  : — 

....  and  Naram  Sin,  his  son,  that  ancient  king^  [searched 
/or  it  ?^,  hut  down  to  the  times  of  Nebo-radduk,  king  of 
Babylon,  it  was  never  found. 

Kuri-galatzu,  king  of  Babylon,  that  ancient  king,  sought 
for  it. 

Here  we  have  another  old  Hamitic  king  whose  bricks 
are  in  the  Museum.  His  name  seems  to  mean,  "  his 
head  is  lofty,"  kuri  being  frequently  used  for  a  "  head  " 
in  Assyrian. 

....  sought  for  it.  But  the  titnin  of  the  temple  of  Yal- 
mas  was  not  found.  Then  he  issued  a  proclamation  in  these 
words: — "The  timin  of  the  temple  of  Yalmas  I  have  not 
been  able  to  find." 

The  words  are  kiham  ....  hUema  ishkun,  umma :  of 
which  bilema  is  uncertain  from  fracture.  Kiham,  '  a 
decree,'  is  a  most  important  word,  because  it  fixes 
the  meaning  of  the  clause  which  occurs  so  often  in 
the  Behistun  inscription :  "  Dariaus  sar  kiham  igabbi," 
'  Darius  speaks  a  decree,'  or  '  Darius  proclaims  thus.* 

It  is  the  Chald.  Dp,  statutum,  edictum  (Ges.  890)  ; 
Syriac  kima :   and  being  derived  from   a''p,  manens, 

^  Read  gar  eui  jnakri,  as  in  the  next  line  but  one. 


ASSYRIAN    INSCKIPTIONB. 


193 


drrruns,  implies  something  very  firmly  or  permanently 
tixed.  We  read  that  the  laws  of  the  Medes  and  Per- 
sians could  never  be  changed,  which  contains  the  same 

leading  idea  as  Dp  does. 

Then  Esarhaddon,  king  of  Assyria,  king  of  the  nations .... 

The  rest  of  this  fragment  is  lost.  It  is  to  be  regretted 
ihut  the  parLicuIars  of  the  search  made  by  order  of 
^sarhaddou  have  not  been  preserved. 

Fourth  Fragmmt,  Col.  11.  40. 

( — ■  — ),  king  of  Babylon,  son  of  Nahopolassar  a  former 
'sing-,  commanded  a  large  army  to  search  for  tlie  timiti  of  this 
temple  of  Valmas.  They  dug  :  they  sunk,  pits  :  tliey  carried 
away  the  earth:  but  the  timin  of  the  temple  of  Valraas  was 
"t.t  fonnd. 

iiakaru  :  thhutu  ;  ishebilu  :  three  verbs  in  succession. 
itakarti,  they  dug :  T  conjugation  of  akar,  -\2^,fodit 
,CGes.  54). 

iA'tkutu,  they  sunk  pits;  the  same  as  ikdudu;  from 
■T^,  to  dig  with  labour;  but  especitilly  "to  sink  wells." 

t^es.  4C5. 
1^    isheh'dut  they  carried  away  the  earth  ;  from  suhiil, 
''^D,  bfijuiavit :  portavit  grave  onus.     Ges.  702. 

I       Then  IjNebo-lmduk,  king  of  Jlahylon,  restorer  of  the  holy 
^^niples  and  holy  places,  during  mygloriou§  reign,  moved  by 
^**y    reverence  towards  Ishtar^  my  Lady,  who  presides  over 
"c  city  of  Agab,  I  dug  deep  pita  or  escavations.     The  Sun 
**''*«i  tlie  Sky  granted  to  me  the  distinguished  favour  to  find 
■*e  timiu  of  the  temple  of  Valnias,  partly  through  my  good 
■'^'^kfftnd   partly  through  my  ardent  zeal.     So  I,  the  king, 
*s^nihled  my  large  army  to  witness  the  opening,  or  drawing 
_'^'*t.li   of  this  timiu,  {thirty^)  years  after  the  digging  which 
'^Ijofihadusaar    (Nebuchadnezzar),    king    of    Babylon,    had 


194 


PRELIMINARY   TRANSLATrOXS   OF 


caused  to  be  dug.  Both  before  and  after  him,  other  kings 
had  sought  it,  but  not  found  it,  and  they  had  Issued  decrees 
like  these : — "  We  have  labuured  much  after  this  timitif  and 
have  found  nothing." 

Here  are  some  words  and  phrases  worth  noticing, 

Anna  ^'ini,  gratia  insignis ;  from  Heb.  HDIin,  hannrt, 
gratia. 

biri,  pits  or  wella  :  abriut  I  dug  them  ;  from  hnra^  to 
dig  a  well,  Ges.  123,  who  says,  fodit,  spcc'mliter  pu- 
teum. 

Ambit  (adverb),  partly  ;  contracted  from  ana  hit, 
literally  "  in  part ;"  from  Heb.  ns,  pit  or  bit,  a  part  of 
anything  (Ges.  846). 

Tiiki^  good  luck  ;  exceedingly  like  the  Greek  tv)^, 
but  the  coincidence  raay  be  casual.  This  word  occurs 
in  most  of  the  Achiemenian  inscriptions^  where  it  is 
said  that  Oromasdes  gives  to  men  their  various  for- 
tunes. 

Kin  or  Kini,  ardent  zeal ;  Heb.  p,  Ges.  895,  who 
renders  it  studium  ,-  amor  ardens  :  ^?A.or. 

The  whole  phrase  is  therefore,  ambit  iuki  m  ambit 
kin-ya. 

The  next  phrase  I  translate,  "  So  I,  the  king,  assem- 
bled my  army/' etc.  The  first  word  being  the  adverb 
^ure,  sic  :  ita:  Ges,  488. 

Btdiii  tlminna  seems  to  imply  the  drawing  out  of 
the  tiinin  from  some  fissure  or  opening,  an  expression 
very  suilable  to  the  tenor  of  the  narrative.  For  Gese- 
nius  renders  the  verb  J^p^  by  such  terms  as  aperin,  to 
be  opened  ;  excludi,  to  be  taken  out  ;  prodire,  to  come 
forth  J  dirndl,  to  be  split  open,  etc.  He  says  it  is  used 
in  Isaiah  and  Proverbs  of  water  coming  out  of  a  fissure 
and  coming  forth  to  the  light.    He  adds,  p.  168,  "  tin- 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS.  195 

cjeodi  vis  translata  est  ad  rem  prorumpentem."  The 
diggings  made  by  Nebuchadnezzar  are  called  khiddata 
(from  the  same  root,  T!3,  to  dig  wells).  Imnu-su,  he 
commanded  them  ;  ikthutu,  to  dig.  This  verb  we  had 
before  in  the  same  sense  in  Col.  II.  43.  With  respect 
to  imnu-su,  he  commanded  them,  or  yamanu-su,  as  it 
might  be  written,  the  same  verb  occurs  on  the  cylinder 
of  Sargon,  where  it  is  said,  asibut  yamanu-su,  the  in- 
habitants decreed  it.  It  comes  from  the  verb  aman^ 
"p^y  whence  the  subst.  amanah,  Jiy^H,  statutum,  decre- 
turn,  Ges.  73. 

nunahif  we  have  laboured  much :  from  T^2V,  anah 
(Ges.  781),  laborem  impendit  alicui  rei.  Compare  the 
Greek  avia. 

la  nimutsak,  we  have  not  found  it :  from  matsah,  to 
find,  «2D,  Ges.  606. 

Column  III. 
The  fragments  which  remain  of  this  column  are  less 
interesting  than  the  others,   because  a  great  deal  of 
the  previous  matter  is  repeated.    This  column  is  chiefly 
decupled  with  praises  of  the  goddess  Anunit,  who  was 
X>robably  the  same  as  Ishtar,  or  the  Moon,  though  pos- 
sibly she  may  have  been  the  planet  Venus.    Her  name 
*eseQibles  Anaitis.     I  will  make  only  a  few  extracts 
from  this  column. 

Line  19  (much  broken)  ....  the  iimin  of  the  temple  of 
Yalmas  ....  on  the  tablets  (?)  of  Shaga-saltiash  ....  con- 
cerning those  diggings  1  have  read  .... 

Shaga-saltiash  is  named  again  at  line  41,  and  called 
"King  of  Babylon  in  former  times."  His  bricks,  I 
believe,  have  not  yet  been  discovered.  Khiddati,  dig- 
gings.    Akharu,  I  have  read.      It  is  then  added,  in 


i96  PRELIMINARY    TRANSLATIONS   OP 

praise  (apparently)  of  this  ruler,  that  he  was  ship  kSnu, 
rubu  nadu,  a  glorious  king,  and  a  noble  prince.  It  then 
continues — 

By  the  favour  of  the  Sun  and  Anunit,  I  became  supreme 
ruler  of  the  country.  And  by  their  favour  I  built  the  temple 
of  Tflraj  which  is  the  ternple  of  the  Sun,  in  the  city  of  Sen- 
kerch,  and  that  of  Valmas,  which  is  the  temple  of  Anunit  in 
the  fiamc  city. 

inu,  favour,  is  the  ITeb.  rn,  Am,  gratia.  Senkereh 
is  the  modern  name  of  the  city.     I  have  used  it  here, 

being  uncertain  of  the  ancient  name.  The  record  con- 
tinues-— 

Of  these  templea,  that  of  Anunit,  my  Lady,  was  most 

ruinous.  From  old-age  its  stones  had  all  fallen  down.  Those 
stones  I  dug  out  of  the  ground  :  I  renewed  the  fuutidationa : 
I  removed  the  fallen  rubbish,  etc. 

Many  other  repairs  are  related,  and  it  concludes — 
"  I  restored  the  temple  more  grandly  than  ever."  The 
king  then  prays  for  a  blessing  on  his  work,  and  on  him- 
self for  having  done  It.  And  lie  says,  "  I  did  this  work 
for  the  prosperity  of  my  life,  and  the  spoiling  of  my 
enemies."  Then  comes  a  prayer  i  "O  Anunit,  great 
Lady  (hillat  rabilt),  together  with  Sen  thy  father  [the 
Lunar  god],  protect  the  buildings  of  those  six  temples, 
with  thy  sceptre,  for  evermore  !" 

The  same  temples  as  before  are  here  enumerated. 
Liskakin^  protect !  literally,  ''make  them  to  last  v«ry 
long!'*  from  ktin,  p3,  to  be  firm  :  confirmavit :  stntuit. 
In  another  conjugation  it  is  likun^  as  in  the  very  next 
line.  Col.  III.  53, /amd  slunnie  ishda-sun  liiun!  mav 
their  foundations  last  firmly  for  ever,  like  the  heavens ! 
He  then  prays  once  more  for  a  blessing  on  Bel-sar-ussur^ 
his  eldest  son. 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS.  197 


Additional  Observations. 


Id  the  invocation  to  Ashur  and  the  twelve  gods ;  in- 
stead of  "  the  god  ....  king  of  war,"  I  would  now 
read  *' Acherib  the  destroyer,  (bulu) — king  of  War." 
And  since  this  deity  was  the  king  of  war,  I  think  his 
name  may  be  derived  from  the  Hebrew  y^p  kerib,  bat- 
tle :  Syriac,  mip,  the  same. 

Among  the  Zaaleh  witnesses,  I  have  left  blank  the 
name  of  the  father  of  Babilaya :  but  I  see  that  it  reads 
San-sik-ash-ka  (San !  preserve  thy  votary !)  literally 
hominem  tuum  ('C?''N).  The  verb  seems  to  be  yw^,  ii6c- 
rare :  auxilium  dare  (Ges.  453) :  which  has  another 
form,  yitt?,  liberare  ex  periculis,  according  to  Ges.  989. 
The  final  ^  has  sometimes  the  force  of  A:  or  ^  in  As- 
syrian, as  for  instance  in  the  Hebrew  jn  malus ;  As- 
syrian, Raga :  Raka :  vir  scelestus,  impius,  vel  scele- 
ratus ;  which  I  believe  to  be  the  origin  of  the  term 
Raca  in  the  Scriptures. 

I  return  for  a  moment  to  the  inscription  of  Naboni- 
dus.  At  the  end  of  Col.  II.  it  is  said  that  the  ancient 
kings  issued  a  declaration :  which  I  at  first  thought 
>^as  comprised  in  one  line,  but  I  now  believe  that  the 
roilowing  line  also  formed  part  of  it.     I  would  read ; 

Timinna  auati  nunahi,  la  nimutsa. 

Radu  aha  mami,  yanep  nali,  makhipi  Wtkunu ; 

and  translate — 

"We  have  laboured  much  after  this  timin,  and  have  found 
nothing. 

"  Surely,  the  falling  rains  and  the  violence  of  the  river 
must  have  washed  it  away.'* 

The  last  Hne  is  difficult.  Radu  is  falling  rain  :  mami, 
waters :  yanep  may  be  32M,  anep,  in  the  sense  of  vio- 


193 


PRELIMINARY    TRANaLATlONS    OF 


lence,  wrath,  turbulence  (Ges.  80).  Nali,  a  river. 
occurs  frequently,  and  is  Hebrew  TTO.  Makh'tpi, 
"  washed  away,"  may  be  a  participial  form  from  en, 
which  is  the  primitive  form  of  DCn,  abluit,  det€r$tt, 
ahrasit  (Ges.  359),  whence  also  the  seashore,  or  umsh 
of  the  sea,  is  called  ia  Hebrew  on  C^ee  Ges.  325).  lah- 
kumt,  they  have  done  it :  they  have  made  it :  (a  very 
common  word.) 

Passing  to  Col.  III.,  although  it  is  much  broken  and 
defaced^  yet  I  tind,  on  further  cKarainatton,  that  more 
of  the  general  meaoiDg  can.  be  made  out  than  1  at  tirst 
supposed. 

It  seems  that  after  the  timin  of  the  temple  of  Valmas 
had  been  recovered  with  so  many  efforts  and  so  much 
difficulty,  the  king  proceeded  to  read  it,  and  found 
that  it  recorded  that  the  ancient  king  Shaga-saltiash 
was  the  original  builder  of  the  temple,  and  had  dedi- 
cated it  to  the  goddess  Anunit  (compare  lines  20»  2i, 
with  41,  42).  Nabonidus  therefore  resolved  to  rebuild 
the  temple  with  much  splendour,  and  to  dedicate  it 
anew  to  the  same  deity  with  a  solemn  prayer  (see  line 
47  and  following  lines).  But  the  most  interesting 
point  is  this,  that  he  says  he  replaced  once  more  the 
ancient  timin  m  its  former  place.  This  sliows  its 
sanctity  and  bis  great  veneration  for  it,  I  read  the 
words  thus:  (line  45)  '^  timinna  iahirita  shanutish  ad- 
diu :"  where  lablrita  signifies  "old":  shanutish,  "for 
the  second  time,"  is  here  represented  by  a  monogram 
containing  the  same  sign  twice  repeated. 

Addiit  signifies  jeci :  fundnvi :  I  deposited  or  laid 
down  the  foundation  of  a  building,  or  something  upon 
it.  This  verb,  of  constant  occurrence  in  the  inscrip- 
tions, is  the  first  per^^on  singular  of  the  Hebrew  TTV, 
idak,  jecit,  which  makes  in  the  plural  iddu,  jeceruut. 


ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS.  199 

In  his  prayer  the  king  prays  for  prosperity  to  him- 
self and  his  successors,  and  confusion  to  his  enemies ; 
where  I  remark  the  word  gadumi  (I.  40),  wliich  must 
mean  "  himself,"  since  shaasu  gadu,  "  he  himself,"  or 
'*  himself  in  person,"  is  a  common  expression.  Shakab^ 
confusion,  is  from  the  same  root  as  eskkub,  prostravit ; 
which  occurs  so  often  in  the  phrase  "  the  terror  of 
Ashur  overwhelmed  them,  eshkub  sunuti."  It  is  the 
tl  ebrew  13tl?,  shakab,  prostravit.  The  prayer  for  in- 
crease of  rehgious  fervour  is  curious,  and  contains  an 
important  word  (see  1.  54);  — 

**  bulukti  San  bel  ilu  in  sharaami  Hbbi  nisi-su  suskin-ama" 
i.e.  "  and  veneration  for  San,  lord  of  the  gods,  implant 
thou  firmly  in  the  warm  hearts  of  its  inhabitants." 

This  shamami  is  the  Assyrian  form  of  the  Chaldee 
khamima,  NTS'Cn,  calidus.  In  many  other  words  the 
Hebrew  n  becomes  sh  in  Assyrian.  This  occurs,  as 
I  have  before  remarked,  in  other  languages  :  compare 
calor,  chaleur:  carus,  cher  :  etc.,  etc. 

One  of  the  Assyrian  months  was  called  Shami,  "the 
ri^onth  of  heat,"  from  the  Hebrew  an,  kham,  calidus 
(Oes.  346),  a  word  from  the  same  root  and  similarly 
changed  in  the  two  languages. 

I  observe  moreover  that  it  is  said  that  both  the  great 
temples  of  this  city  {Senkereh)  were  in  ruins  and  that 
l^He  king  rebuilt  both  of  them,  viz.  the  temple  of  the 
Sun  and  that  of  Anunit. 

After  describing  at  some  length  these  repairs,  by 
which ."  the  temples  were  restored  more  grandly  than 
ever"  (I.  35),  he  continues  thus  (I.  36)  ;— 

"Wherefore  I  pray  the  Sun  and  Anunit,  may  their  hearts 
i^joice  over  this  work  which  I  have  done  !  May  they  requite 
'twith  manifold  blessings!"  etc.  etc. 

VOL.   VIl.  P 


200  ASSYRIAN    INSCRIPTIONS. 

The  words  of  the  text  are : — 

"  Ana  shatti  Shemesh  u  Anunit  ana  ebshati-ya  damgati 
libba-sun  likhadu." 

The  first  phrase,  "ana  shatti,"  signifies  06  hoc,  vel 
06  hanc  rem;  "for  this  cause,"  or  "therefore."  It 
answers  to  the  Heb.  jiMt  7M,  al  zat.  See  Gesenius, 
p.  294.  nW, "  this  thing"  is  the  fem.  of  rrt,  zeh  or  zah, 
the  article  hie,  hac,  hoc.  From  hence,  according  to 
Gesenius,  arose  the  Aramaic  form  di  or  da  (for  which 
the  Assyrians  always  substitute  ska).  lu  fact  the  He- 
brew letter  zain  had  a  sound  which  in  some  words  was 
undistinguishable  from  sh,  so  that  n«1  or  nnb*t,  as  it  is 
written  in  Jerem.  xxvi.6,  was  pronounced  shateh  or  shati, 
just  as  in  Assyrian,  nt  sometimes  becomes  a  relative, 
as  sha  does  very  frequently  in  Assyrian,  ex.gr.  Psalm 
civ.  8:  rno^  nt  mpQ  7N,  al  mdkom  sha  isdata,  "  to  the 
place  which  thou  hast  founded."  This  example  is  taken 
from  Gesenius. 

Moreover  the  Heb.  It^M,  asher,  and  tT,  sha,  are  mere 
forms  of  the  Assyrian  sha :  for  instance,  tZ^S,  ki-sha, 
quemadmodum,  "in  like  manner  as,"  agrees  exactly 
with  an  Assyrian  word  of  similar  sound  and  meaning. 
And  since  writing  this,  I  have  observed  a  passage  in 
Gesenius  (p.  Ill),  where  he  gives  his  opinion  that  all 
these  words,  TXt,  tt?,  "ityt*,  ^,  were  originally  the  same. 

Likhadu  answers  exactly  to  the  Heb.  Trm,  khada, 
gavisus  est,  exhilaravit,  (Ges.  320,)  who  considers 
yotfew,  gaudeo,  to  be  of  the  same  origin  with  khada. 


201 


VIII.-A  POLITICAL  POEM  RELATING  TO  THE  TROUBLES 
OF  THE  REIGNS  OF  EDWARD  H.  AND  IIL :  AND 
AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  VISIT  OF  CHARLES  V.  TO 
ENGLAND,  BY  AN  EYEWITNESS. 

'^      PKOFESSOB    RBJNHOLD    PAtJU,    OF    TUBINOEN,     HON.  HEM.    R.8.L. 

(Read  January  8th,  1862.) 

Tbe  following  political  poem  referring  to  the  troubles 
'during  the  reigns  of  Edward  11.  and  Edward  III.  is 
preserved  in  a  manuscript  volume,  belonging  to  the 
R-oyal  Public  Library  at  Stuttgart,  under  the  signature 
"Cod.  Poet.  4°  Nr.  16."  As  the  volume  evidently 
comes  from  England  and  must  have  passed  through 
various  hands,  until  it  merged  into  the  Stuttgart  col- 
lection, I  think  a  description  of  its  contents  may  not 
be  out  of  place. 

Being  written  on  vellum,  divided  into  seventy-eight 
leaves  in  1 2mo,  it  is  still  kept  together  by  wooden  boards 
covered  with  leather,  though  the  clasps,  which  origi- 
nally closed  them,  have  been  torn  away.     The  main 
portion  of  the  book  is  taken  up  by  two  distinct  works, 
both  written  in  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century, 
hut  each  by  its  own  hand.     The  first,  beginning  on 
*oll,  is  headed  :  "  Tor  Spt  Assit  nobis  Gracia ;"  after 
^hich   the   text,   regularly  written  in  31   lines,  com- 
iiences:  "  Signum  primum  a  quo  incipienduui  est  in 
phisionima  est  color,  etc."     It  terminates  on  fol.  10 

p  2 


202  POLITICAL    POEM    ON    THE 

with  the  words,  '*  Explicit  fisonima  abAristotele  data." 
Two  entries,  however,  on  the  first  page  deserve  a 
special  notice.  On  the  empty  space  in  the  upper 
corner  two  names  of  Englishmen  are  inscribed,  both  by 
hands  belonging  to  the  seventeenth  century :  "  Fairfax 
of  y'  gift  of  Capt.  W"  Bradford,"  and  :  "  nunc  e  libris 
Rad  :  Thoresby  Leodiensis."  I  believe  the  first  be  the 
General  who  commanded  the  Parliamentarian  troops 
against  the  Royalists,  and  the  other,  one  of  the  many 
Englishmen  who  about  the  same  time  were  professed 
monks  in  French  or  Belgian  monasteries.  Thoresby 
very  likely  took  the  volume  away  from  England. 

From  fol.  lO**  to  fol.  U*",  by  another  hand  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  the  poem  is  inserted  which  I  have 
transcribed. 

Fol.  12  is  empty,  and  fol.  12^  filled  with  samples 
and  recipes  of  medicine  in  English,  in  a  hand  either  of 
the  fifteenth  or  sixteenth  century.  On  fol.  1 3  a  few  mu- 
sical notes  are  found,  and  on  the  top  of  fol.  IS*"  another 
recipe,  under  which,  by  a  hand  of  the  time  of  James  I. 
and  in  a  darker  ink,  the  following  memorandum  is 
added : — 

Natuball  Philosophy. 

A  booke  (ns  itt  seems)  was  giuen  by  y*  lord  Clifford  (father 
to  the  I  Earle  of  Cumberland)  to  y'  Priory  of  Bolton. 

TheContentesofeuery  Chapter  of  this  booke  are  expressed 
in  y*  Preamble. 

This  Memorandum  introduces  the  second  work 
writted  in  this  volume,  beginning  on  fol.  14  and  ter- 
minating on  fol.  76^.  It  is  a  Norman-French  poem, 
transcribed  in  a  clear  hand  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
with  initials  illuminated  in  blue,  red  and  gold,  in  double 


RBIGNS   OF    EDWARD    II.   AND    III.  203 

columns  of  33  lines  each,  the  lines  drawn  by  a  sharp 
pencil,  and  the  stitches,  through  which  the  scribe  fixed 
the  volume  on  his  desk,  still  being  visible  along  the 
edges.  Towards  the  end  the  work  is  illustrated  by 
several  astronomical  drawings  in  red  colour.  It  be- 
gins: 

Qui  uoet  entedre  a  cest  comenz 
Si  poet  ap''ndre  en  cest  romanz  etc. 
er.  15.  Cest  liure  q'  desert  le  mode 
Q'  a  no  ymage  du  mode  etc. 

Itends,  fol.  76'': 

Ci  finist  limage  du  mode 
A  deu  comece,  a  deu  p'nt  fin 
Ki  toz  nos  meine  a  bone  fin 
Amen. 

fol.  LXiii  in  gallic  [hand  of  the  I6th  centuiy]. 

(Fol,  770  I"  i*to  libro  sunt  folia  lxiii  scripta 
in  gallica  lingua  [by  the  same  hand^ . 

By  another  hand  of  the  same  time  some  English  words 
of  translation  now  and  then  are  inserted  between  the 
ancient  French  original.  The  poem  itself,  it  appears, 
Was  composed  by  Gauthier  (Walter)  de  Metz  about 
tlie  year  1247. 

Fol.  71^  I  find  covered  with  lines  in  English,  ap- 
parently belonging  to  the  fifteenth  century,  but  the 
greater  part  erased  and  almost  entirely  illegible. 

The  upper  part  of  fol.  78,  in  a  handwriting  of  the 
time  of  Henry  VIII.,  contains  the  following  lines  : — 

Nowe  fare  well  lady  I  take  my  leve 
Vnto  your*  grace  I  me  subniytte 
And  what  so  cu''  y'  ze  saye 
Your'  love  all  on  my  Iiert  ys  knyt. 


204  POLITICAL    POEM    ON   THE 

To  which,  by  the  same  hand  as  on  fol.  13'',  a  memo- 
randum is  added : 

These  verses  were  made  by  y*  2'^  Earle  of  Cumberland 
before  his  marriage  with  his  first  hidy  y*  daughter  of  Charles 
Brandon  by  Mary  Queene  of  France. 

Another  hand  hath  filled  the  lower  part  with  ciphers  : — 

The  b.  xoc  fyn 

b.  for  a.     X  for  v.     p  for  o.     k  for  f.     f.  for  e 

OX  3  a 

The  last  page,  fol.  78'',  shows  some  more  illegible  scrib- 
bling in  different  hands. 


I.  The  Political  Verses  on  fol.  10''  are  not  found  in 
Mr.  Th.  Wright's  Collections,  published  for  the  Cam- 
den Society,  1839,  or  for  the  Master  of  the  Rolls.  They 
are  written  in  the  well-known  metre,  in  strophes  of 
four  lines,  the  latter  rhyming  in  the  middle  and  at  the 
end.^  The  orthography  as  well  as  the  Latinity  are  very 
bad,  and  besides  several  obscurities  with  regard  to 
certain  historical  and  personal  allusions,  more  than 
one  word  defies  explanation. 

Plangens  plorat  Anglia  pro  cede  baronum 
Plebs  cadit  iniuria,  heu  dat  plebi  sonum, 
Dolus  et  discordia  torquent  terre  tronum. 
Post  pensare  talia  niultis  erit  bonum. 
5   Mire  cadunt  nobiles  de  rota  fortune, 

Micant,  monent  milites,  monstrant  modum  lune. 
Palam  premunt  proceres  plebem  nee  impune 
Vt  gestis  instabiles  plures  pendent  fune, 
Pollent  panni  precio  literis  auratis. 

'  A  kind  of  alliteration  within  the  verses  is  very  curious,  remindiog 
the  reader  of  Auglo-Saxou  and  early  English  poetry. 


REIGNS   OF    EDWARD    II.   AND    III.  205 

10  Nanc  pergunt  ut  garcio  nee  more  magnatis, 

Minantur  in  publico,  clam  sunt  pii  satis, 

Non  pandunt  in  prelio  punctum  probitatis. 

Fauent  adulteriis,  assisis  procurant, 

De  letis  et  curiis  plus  de  missis  curant. 
15  In  foris  et  feriis  cedunt,  iactant,  iurant, 

Malis  uacant  variis,  que  non  diu  durant. 

Prime  pestis  passio  pugna  fit  Schotorum, 

Datur  exterminio  magna  gens  Anglonim, 

Fugiunt  de  medio  duces  populorum. 
£0  Civili  discidio  plebs  obit  probonim. 

Sic  Comes  Cornubie  Petrus  decoUatur, 

£t  Comes  Glouernie  Gilbertus  mactatur, 

Humfridus  Herfordie  per  noctes  necatur, 

Comitis  Lancastrie  capud  amputatur. 
3G  Clifford,  Moubray,  Batismar*  tyeys  fere  centum 

Ferunt  fero  federe  funus  per  torroentum. 

Uxoris  in  carcere  nati  dant  lamentum, 

UUum  potest  soluere  genus  nee  argentum. 

Gauaston^  de  Mildetone  mors  dat  hos  perire, 
30  Comes  de  Carliolo  neci  datur  dire. 

Plane  patent  populo  causas  qui  vult  scire, 

Et  multos  pro  merito  deus  vult  punire. 

Felix  est  prouincia  cum  pace  secura, 

Tuentur  ecclesia,  res  et  rengni  iura. 
35  Sed  cum  ferox  furia  fit  sine  mensura, 

Cadunt  rex  et  curia  sub  vindicta  dura. 

Dicte  cedis  ultio  per  tempus  quieuit 

Regina  cum  filio  facta  freto  fleuit. 

Mox  de  Man  mortuo  stupor  flatus  fleuit, 
*0  Terre  de  dominio  regem  qui  doleuit. 

Comes  Arundellie  fuit  decoUatus 

Et  presul  Oxonie  capite  truncatus, 

De  Spenser  cognomine  sic  sunt  pater,  natus, 

Hie  Comes  Wintonie,  ducis  alter  status. 
■*o  Baldok  cancellarius  obit  noue  porte, 

Scrop  iusticiarius  transit  statum  forte 


206 


POLITICAl,    POEM    ON    THE 


Vel  et  Holand  penitus,  plays  pares  sunt  morte 
Reding  ct  Aquarius  pendent  equa  sorte 
Bemond  Trussel  Ruscelyii  Wiler  pauent  plecti, 

&u  Fas  sunmnt  exilii  trans  mare  Hirecti, 
Quorum  forsan  emuH  ficnt  furcis  necti, 
Et  reddibutit  aingulL  pace  regis  tecti. 
De  rege,  qui  dederat  iiiulta  castra  niultis, 
Postquiiiu  dlctus  fuerat  niortuus  sepultus, 

SB  Dicta  ficta  fecerat  forte  frater  stultua 

Apud  Crofth  qui  vixerat  elausus  mesti  vullus. 
Creuit  pudor  patrie,  tania  feda  fluit, 
Cum  castro  cotidie  rex  in  rengno  ruit- 
Fratrem  Comes  Kancie  mesta  morte  luit, 

60  Pro  quo  Comes  Marchie  post  suspcnsus  fuit. 
Mous  humeri  Berenger  vinclia  sunt  artati, 
"Wake,  Fulco  fizWarin  fugam  malunt  pati. 
Ocle  Gurney  fugiunt  causa  regis  fati, 
Interim  sunt  exules  ad  Toca  rocati. 

6'.  Laus  regis  excellitur,  sed  flos  matris  cadit. 
Cum  Mora  maris  moritur,  Berford  funus  vadit. 
Malus  trauers  traditor  unus  vix  euadit. 
Sic  fraus  fine  faliitur,  dum  sors  reos  radit, 
Tu  sors  dira  decipis  reges  et  reginas, 

70  Posse  pape  principis  seuas  et  declinaa 

Nunc  letis  eras  subvenis  aufers  et  propinas, 
De  morte  nunc  eruis  eras  das  mortis  minas. 
Heu  que  tanta  vanitas  sic  fallit  potentes. 
Que  ceca  cupiditas  fine  facis  flentes, 

75  Quorum  ius  ncc  pietas  malau  mutat  mentes, 
Parant  neces  proprias,  qui  sic  necant  gcntcs. 
Onns  pacis  presides  predict^  pcnsat^, 
Barunes  et  consules  de  cede  cessate, 
Et  cum  sitis  iudices  iuste  iudicate, 

80  Semper  ]ui,  stabiles  pauperes  iuuate. 
Nam  si  scirent  Anglici  scribe  seculares, 
Quid  iam  scriptum  reperi  mene  techel  pliares, 
Non  vacarent  veneri  nee  necarent  pares 
Set  curarent  consequi  celuni  plus  quain  lares. 


REIGNS    or    EDWARD    II.    AND    III. 


207 


I 
I 


83  In  bona  milicia  duo  Solent  CSse, 

Fides  et  tnundicia,  que  iam  sunt  oppresse, 
Nam  fraus  et  luxuria  nunc  rengnaHt  expresse, 
Per  quod  multis  gracia  deest  adiiecesse. 
In  luinori  termino  quam  annis  liis  decern 

30  Hoc  turpi  litigio  cuiicti  ferunt  necem 
Peiori  patibulo,  quam  fur  dat  verveceni. 
Ut  fruaittur  gaudio,  deo  demus  precem. 
Quia  audiuit  talta  nee  valeret  6ere. 
Hec  agunt  perturia  fastus  liuor  vere, 

aa  Xriste,  regens  Omnia,  t^erram  haiic  tuere 
lieddendo  iudicia,  horum  miserere.    Amen. 

By  a  different  hand,  not  much  later: 

llic  sto  pro  ventis  et  pro  multis  nocumentis 
£t  do  student!  lumen  sine  flamine  venti 
Kt  qui  me  frangnt  sine  maledicione  tangat. 
Noo  quidam/  nullug/  omnis  non/  ouUus  babetur 
Non  nullus/  quidam/  non  quidam  nou/  vaSet  omnia 
Non  umnis/  quidam  non/  nullus  non/  valet  omnia 
Non  omnia  non/  quidam/  non  nullus  non/  aliquia  non. 

V.  H  evidently,  but  against  the  metre,  plus  quam 
<Je.     V.  16,  an  allusion  to  the  battle  of  BanQockburn 
A.  1314.    V.  21.  the  death  of  Gaveston,  a.  1312-     V. 
^3  and  the  following  allude  to  the  attainder  and  deca- 
pitation of  so  many  noblemen,  a.  Ii32li.     V.  25,  t'^eys 
®^eins  to  be  the  Norm  an -French  word  for  Germans, 
Undoubtedly  mercenaries  in  the  king's  service.    V.  30, 
*^*^e  Earl  of  Carlisle  beheaded,  a.  1323.     V.  38,  facta 
•^^Gto,  very  dark,  but  literal,  alluding  to  the  flight  of 
^U.een  Isabella  to  Paris,  a.  1325.     V.  42,  Oxonie,  a 
''Mistake  instead  of  Exonie.     V.  45,  nove  porte,  New- 
S^te.    V.  47,  plmjs  ?    V.  48,  Aquarius,  I  do  not  know 
^  Ho  is  meant  by  this  name.    V<  5.5,  the  Earl  of  Kent, 
^^»o  supposed  that  his  brother.  King  Edward  II.,  was 


208 


ACCOUNT    OF    THE    VISIT 


still  alive.  V.  64,  voca,  vota?  V.  (iG,  the  catastrophe 
of  the  year  1330.  V.  89,  must  the  verses  not  have 
been  written  in  the  year  1330  or  very  soon  after? 
V.  91,  vervecem  instead  of  cervicem. 

The  puzzhng  lines,  which  fill  the  rest  of  the  leaves 
seem  to  be  of  a  grammatical  nature. 


IL 

ACCOUNT  OF  THE  VISIT  OF  CHARLES  V.  TO 
ENGLAND  IN  1322. 

JVie  u/id  in  weUirher  gesialt  Kei/.  May^  von  Bruck  ausz  gen 
Lunden  in  Sngefand  g^zotftn,  ankomtn  itnd  empfangt^  wor- 
den  ist. 
In  dera  xxiiii  tag  May  ist  Kay.  May.  in  ainem  schonen 
Stettlin,  an  der  See,  genannt  Thunkirchen,  ir  May.  zuge- 
hurig  in  dem  Land  zu  I'landern  uhernatrht  getegen,  und  am 
XXV  Tag  verruckt,  ungevorlych  unib  v  ur  Nachniittag  geii 
GreszUng  komen,  da  selbs  auaserlialb  des  Stctlinsz  ain 
ScMange  scKusz  enlmlb  atnes  nassers,  babsn  die  Kngtiscrlien 
auff  irera  Confin,  in  aiTier  wisen,  bisz  in  zweyKuiidert  pferdt, 
daninter  bey  achtzig  pogner,  und  das  ander  Kirisser,  und 
spyeser  mit  ainem  EniigHscben  fancn,  fast  koatiich  mit  Iren 
klaidenij  aucb  pferden  harniscb  gebalten,  Und  baben  vor  der 
ordnuTig  steen  gehci)t  iiu  Valckenerlach,  Vom  hanffen  seiii 
drey  bern  per&onlich  man  in  jrem  harnascb,  vnd  kostlicbcn 
gulden  stucken  ain  bogen&chusz  weit,  von  der  ordnurg  au 
kay.  May.  geriten,  und  zu  fusz  abgestanden,  und  Ir  May. 
Mit  grosser  Keverentz  ciint]>flaiizeTi,  und  als  bald  ain  hrieff, 
vun  dem  Kunig  von  Engeland  iibi^rantwurt,  denselben  die 
kay.  May.  verlesen  und  nach  verliesung  des  selbigen  durch 
cEen  Ejrosiien  kaiitz,ler  antwurt  daraufl'  gebeti  und  further  auff 
KalUsz  zu  yery'cii,  und  nacb  vii  um  da  selbs  eingeriten/ 
Da  bi3lb&t  sein  jr  May.  ent^cgenj  all  GaystUcbayt,  jnn  jrer 


OF  CHARLES  V.  TO  ENGLAND.         209 

ordnung  mit  den  Creiitzen  und  haltumb,  entgegen  gangen, 
Item  es  seyn  aucb  all  gassen,  dardurch  die  kay.  May.  ge- 
riten  bysz  gehoff  hat  mussen,  Thappeserey  behenckt  werden, 
Vnd  auff  alien  thiim  fanen,  Darinn  dea  Kiinigs  von  Enge- 
lands  wappen. 

^  Es  haben  auch  die  Knglischen,  So  bald  Kayse.  May. 
mit  jrem  gezeiig,  zu  der  Stat  kommen  ist,  als  in  geschiitzs 
abgon  lassen,  inn  sollycher  menyg,  das  verwundem  was,  und 
kayserlich  Mayestat  ist  daselbs  ilbernaclit  belyben. 

If  Am  Montag  nach  mittag  hat  kayserlich  Mayestatt  un- 
gevorlich  mit  drey  oder  vier  schyffen  mit  vast  starckem  (p^.  3) 
wind,  sich  gewagt  zu  Kallisz  abweg,  und  mit  jr  Mayestat 
etlich  Englisch  herren  bisz  geen  Thaufers,  ain  Stat  unnd 
Scfalosz  am  mor,  jnn  Engeland  angefarn,  und  ankommen. 

U  Wie  die  kayserlich  Mayestat  zu  Thaufera,  auch  der 
kiinig  von  Kngeland  am  afilermontag,  da  selbs  zu  jrer  May. 
kommen,  empfangen  worden,  und  wie  sy  sich  gegen  einander 
gehalten,  ist  dem  hoSgesynd  nit  wissent  gewesen,  Dann 
kayserlich  Mayestat  hoffgesynd  ist  derselben  zeit  iioch  zu 
Kallysz  geweszen. 

^  Am  Freytag  den  xxx  tag  May.  haben  die  Englyschen 
zwey  Frantztjsischen  Rawbschiff  gefangen,  unnd  geen  Thau- 
fers  gebracht  und  all  schyfF  daselbs  in  der  porten  gehalten, 
der  bysz  in  die  Dreissyg  Streitschyff  gewesen  seind  haben  jr 
geschiitz  abgeschossen,  mit  aynem  sollychen  tharmerein  und 
puffen,  ainer  mechts  nit  glauben,  er  sechs  dann  daz  man 
solchs  gewaltig  geschiitz  auff  dem  wasser  gepraucht  hett. 

•[  An  diesem  Freytag,  Ist  kayserlich  Mayestat,  und  der 
Kunnig  von  Engelandt  zu  Thaufers  abweg,  und  bisz  zu  Sant 
Thomas  zu  Kandelberg  gezogen,  und  da  selbs  iibernacht 
beliben. 

^  Am  Sambstag  zu  morgens,  Da  gieng  kayserlich  Mave- 
stat  und  der  Kiinig  von  Engelannd  in  Sant  Thomas  kirchen 
neben  den  Altar,  daran  sant  Thomas  sarch  oder  kast  stat, 
hat  kayserlich  Mayestat  und  der  Kiinig  von  Engelandt  zwu 
messen  gehort  und  ist  der  kiinig,  kayserlich  Mayestat  auff 
der  lincken  seyten  gestanden. — 


210  ACCOUNT    OF    THE    VISIT 

^  Nach  dem  selben  hat  kayserlich  Mayestat  Sant  Thomas 
sarchen  oder  kasten  gezaigt^den  gesehen,  den  selbygen  (p.  4] 
zu  beschreiben,  oder  die  kostlichait  an  zu  zaigen,  ist  nit  wol 
miiglich  der  ubertrefienlichisten  kostlichen,  edlem  gestayn, 
Ton  Berlin  edelm  gestain,  Auch  mercklich  anzahl  Ryng  mit 
jren  eingefasten  stainen,  unnd  Berlyn,  Die  in  Uberflissigen 
menyg  dareyn  gearbayt,  unnd  unerzellyg  seind  und  in  Summa 
ist  soUychs  ain  morcklyches  werck,  Aynner  soUychen  uner- 
schetzlichen  kostlicheyt,  das  da  nyemandes  glaublich  ist,  er 
seche  es  dann  selbst. 

%  Item  under  den  alien  Edlen  gestayn  vil  iibertreffen- 
lichen  Seyn  zweyen  Edell  gestayn  ann  gedachtem  sarch,  die 
ayn  kunnig  von  Franckreych,  Fiir  seyn  Rantzon,  oder 
schatzung  gelt  dareyn  geben  bat.  Die  man  auff  etiych  hundert 
tauseut  kronen  schetzet,  Unnd  das  schlechttest  des  ann  der 
sarch  ist,  Ist  das  gold. 

%  Ittem  die  lenng  Sant  Thomas  kirch  Seind  Ungevorlicb. 
^mayn  schrydt  bysz  zwayhundert  ung  zwayntzig  scbryt. 
Inn  der  grufft  ist  Sant  Thomas  grab,  Unnd  da  weyszt  man 
ainem  Sant  Thomas  kolch,  £s  stet  auch  auff  dem  selben  grab, 
ain  vier  Egketten  tafel,  oder  platt,  darinn  ist  geschriben  oder 
gestocben,  aber  vast  unnleszlicb,  Sant  Thomas  Epithaviuai. 
So  man  auff  seinem  leychnam  funden  bat  Unnd  lautet  also  : 
Hie  requiescit  Tbomas  de  obernensis,  Archiepiscobus  Bri- 
tanie.  primas  et  sedis  apostolice  Legatus.  Qui  pro  justicia  et 
jure  ecclesie,  interfectus  est.  iiii  Kalendas  Januarii  Mileno 
Centena  septua. 

%  Further  Stedt  auff  der  glyncken  seylten  ain  Prunn  an 
ainer  wand,  In  stain  gefaszt,  Dariiber  stet  ain  geschrift  die 
zaigt  an,  das  sich  das  selb  wasser,  ain  mal  in  millich  und  vier 
mai  in  blut  soil  verkert  haben. 

(p.  5)  T[  Item  wie  das  Kloster,  da  kayserlych  Mayestat 
und  der  kiinnig  von  Engelandt  zu  berberg  gelegen  seyn,  vast 
grosz  im  zirckell  ist. 

^  Am  gemelten  Samstag  iibemacht  ist  kaiserlicb  Mayestat 
und  der  Kiinig  von  Engeland  in  ainem  grossen  marckt  iiber- 
nacht  gelegen,  geiiant  Sednigbon. 


OF  CHARLBS  V.  TO  ENGLAND.         211 

^  Sontag  am  tag  Primo  Junij  zu  Raygestir  ain  Stetlyn 
unnd  Bistumb  seind  wir  iibernacht  belyben,  Und  am  Montag 
gen  Griinewytz  Sechs  Engelysch  meyl  von  Lunda,  Da  das 
Kiinnygs  Ton  Engeland  tochther  ist  gezogen. 

Kauerlich  Mayeatat  Einreytung  zu  Lunden  inn  Engeland. 

^  Am  Sambstag  den  sechsten  Junnij  seind  zu  Lunden 
ciingeriten  in  Engeland  die  kaiserlich  Mayestatt  unnd  der 
ICiinig  Ton  Engeland. 

IT  Erstlych  seind  die  gassen  von  dem  ausseristen  ort  d'  Stat 

Viisz  in  das  schlosz,  dardurch    kayserlich    Mayestat,  Unnd 

Iciinig  Ton  Engeland  haben  reiten  mussen  mit  sand  bescbit 

TJnnd  au£F  beyde  seyten,  die    Heiiser  mit  Tappessem  Be- 

Venckt  geweszt,  Es  seind   auch   in  der  selben  gassen  bey 

cyben  Spectacula  gemacbt  geweszt,  vast  zierlich  und  schon 

so   die   kaufiSeiidt  unnd   berren,   vonn   der   Stadt  Lunden 

inachen  lassen. 

%  Item  in  den  ersten  aspect  seind  gesessen,  od'  gestanden 
ettlych  personen  anngelegtt,  als  die  syben  Cburfursten  (p.  6) 
darunder  kayserlich  May.  in  der  mit,  auch  zierlich  mit  jren 
wappen,  klaidern  und  klaynetern  vast  kostlych. 

1"  Item  in  dem  andem  aspect,  warn  der  stamm  des  ge- 
schlechts  des  Teiitschen  Kay.  auch  des  kiinigs  von  Engeland, 
man  und  frawenbild,  alles  von  schonen  Junckfrawen  und 
knaben,  auff  das  zierlicbest  angelegt,  in  kingklyche  klayder, 
und  jr  kronen  auff  dem  haupt,  und  Ceptar  und  schwertter  in 
der  hand,  vast  lustig  zu  sehen  gewesen,  und  ander  matterien 
in  den  andern  Spectacula  mit  aller  zierlichesten  aspecten  an 
zu  schawen  geweszt. 

•[  Item  zu  Erst  sein  forher  geriten,  des  kiinigs  von  Enge- 
land Edelleiit  und  herren,  in  schartz  sameten  Rocken,  dar- 
under etlich  mit  gulden  stucken,  mit  jren  guldin  kettin,  bey 
dreiihundert. 

1"  Auf  die  selben  haben  gefolgt,  die  herren  von  der  Statt 
Lmiden,  bey  den  xxxx.  In  rot  scharlachen  Rocken,  auff  die 
selben  aber  etlich  Engelisch  herren,  weytter  darauff  gefolgt. 


212  ACCOUNT    OF   THE    VISIT 

des  Kiinigs  un<i  kay.  May.  thrumeter  alhey  einander,  Nach 
den  selben  etlych  der  kay.  Mai.  hofgesind,  in  jren  sameten 
Rccken»  auff  die  seliien  haben  gefolgt  be^  anderthalb  hun- 
dert  EngUscher  herren,  jtin  Samet  und  gulden  stucken  vast 
kostlicb. — 

Tl  Item.  Nachmiils  des  kiinigs  von  Engelands  Scliwager. 
Neben  im  auff  der  Lingk^n  seyt^n  Margraff  Hanns  ifon 
Brandenburg,  und  vor  jm  der  Drintz  von  Orania.  und  Mar- 
graff  von  Arszgnt,  und  ander  grosz  herren,  jn  jren  guld  in 
stucken,  utid  ketlein,  auff  wol  gezierten  schonen  hengsten. 

f  Auf  die  selbigen  baben  gefolgt  Kay.  May.  HeroUen, 
und  iieben  jnen  vi.  z\i  paiden  seyten  mit  vergulten  zeptem 
dar  nach  sein  geriten,  zwen  rait  zwayen  sylberin  kreutzen, 
nnd  auf  die  ist  gcriten  der  Cardinal  von  Engelandt,  und  dar- 
nach  aincr  mit  aincni  ^uldin  schwert,  der  Kay.  May.  vorge- 
fiert  (p.  7)  hatj  und  nacbinals  die  Kay.  May,  und  kiinig  vou 
Engeland,  uud  jr  May.  Der  Kaiser  hat  des  kiinigs  von  Enge- 
land  orden  am  halsz  gefiert  und  der  kiinig  des  kaysers  orden, 
jn  jren  guldyn  slucken  baid  inn  ayner  gattung  unnd  auff  ain 
nianyer  gemacht. 

*r  DarnaKh  seind  geryten  Kay.  May.  und  further  des 
kiinig  von  Euglands  hertsctiier  wol  berauszgestrichen,  ob  u 
hnndert,  und  als  sy  zu  der  grossen  kirchen  katnen,  seind 
sy  da  sclbs  abgcstanden,  und  hineyn  gangen,  da  selbs  ist  in 
der  mittyn  ain  banck  mit  guldin  tliiecher,  und  kilssen  zu 
gerycht  gewesen,  darauff  sy  nider  gekniet,  halt  man  alsbald 
mit  ayner  grossen  Soleinnitet  Te  deum  Laudamus  gesungen. 
T[  Naeh  Endung  des  selben  seynd  sy  jn  jr  herberg  inn  das 
Scblnsz  geriten,  das  war  grosz  unnd  ist  schon  erpawen,  Es 
seind  auch  at)  gcmech  dnrchausB,  sonderlych  darinn  kay. 
Mayestat,  unnd  der  kUnig  von  Engeland,  s«yn  wurd,  mit 
sollycber  ubertrcffenlichen  kystlichen,  und  kanstreycbe  ar- 
bait,  von  Tliapesserey  allenthalben  unibgelienckt,  Dergleichen 
nyegeselicn  ward. 

%  Es  hattawcb  der  kiinig  von  Enngelandkayserlych  Maye- 
stat die  vier  Tag  als  ir  Mayestat  zu  Grunwitz,  gelegen.  Vil 
kurtzweyl  mit  Banckenthieren,  Tantaen,  Stechen.Thumiercn, 


^ 


I 


imand  in  which  manner  MiS-  Emperor's  Majesty  went  Jrom 
Brutjes  towards  London  in  England;  how  he  arrived  and 
was  received  there. 

On  the  24th  day  of  May,  the  Emperor's  Majesty  lay  over 
night  in  a  handsome  town  on  the  sea,  called  Dunkirk^  he- 
longing  to  his  Majesty's  country  of  Flanders;  and  on  the 
.  25tli  day  he  started  and  arrived  about  five  o'clock  in  the 
afternoon  at  Gravelities,  where,  on  the  outaide  of  the  town, 
about  the  distance  of  a   cannon's  throw  within  a  water,  tlie 
Hnglish  held  on  horseback  within  their  own  marches  on  a 
I  meadow,  about  two  hundred  horse,  and  among  them  near 
eighty  archers,  and  the  rest  heavy  cavalry  and  lancers  with 
the  English  colours,  chd  very  sumptuously  arid  their  horses 
I  also  harnessed  in  iron.     And  in  front  of  the  ranks  they  had 
standing   four  falconets.     From   the  order   of  hattle   three 
noblemen  in  tlieir  coats  of  mail  and  costly  golden  cliains  rode 
|>ersonatly  about  an  arrow's  -flight  towards  the  Emperor's 
Majesty;  there  they  aliglited  and  received  his  Majicsty  with 
great  reverence,  and  delivered  immediately  a  letter  from  the 
king  of  Englandj  which    the  Emperor's  Majesty  read,  and 
after  reading  the  same  by  the  High  Chancellor  delivered  an 
answer  thereunto ;  and  he  rode  further  on  towards  Calais,  and 
after  seven  o'clock  rode  in  there.     There  came  to  meet  his 
Majesty  all  the  clergy  in  procession  with  crosses  and  relics. 
Itein,iill  the  streets,  through  which  his  Majesty  rode  towards 
tiis  lodging,  had  to  be  decorated  with  tapestry,  and  on  all 
'iwers  wpr(;  banners  with  the  arms  of  the  King  of  England. 
Assoonas  the  Emperor's  Majesty  with  his  train  did  arrive 
at  ilie  town,  the  English  let  go  off  al9  their  ordnance  with 
buch  sn  abundance,  that  it  was  astonishing,  and  the   Em- 
iwoc's  Majesty  remained  there  during  the  night. 
t*!i  Munday  afternoon  the  Emperor's  Majesty  ventured  to 


214  ACCOUNT   OF   THE    VISIT 

leave  Calais,  on  about  three  or  four  vessels  with  a  very  strong 
wind,  and  with  his  Majesty  arrived  and  landed  in  England 
several  English  lords  at  Dover,  a  town  and  castle  on  the  sea. 

How  the  King  of  England,  the  Emperor's  Majesty  being 
at  Dover,  arrived  there  on  aftermonday,  how  his  Majesty  was 
received,  and  how  they  behaved  towards  each  other,  is  not 
known  to  the  servants  of  the  court,  since  the  court  of  the 
Emperor's  Majesty  was  at  that  time  still  at  Calais. 

On  Friday  the  30th  day  of  May,  the  English  caught  two 
French  pirates  and  carried  them  to  Dover ;  and  all  ships 
there  in  harbour,  of  which  there  were  about  thirty  ships  of 
war,  €red  their  ordnance  with  such  a  thunder  and  noise,  that 
a  man  might  not  believe  it,  unless  he  saw,  how  such  powerful 
ordnance  was  used  on  the  water. 

On  the  same  Friday  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and  the  King 
of  England  left  Dover  and  went  to  Saint  Thomas  of  Canter- 
bury, and  remained  there  during  the  night. 

On  Saturday  in  the  morning  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and  the 
King  of  England  went  to  Saint  Thomas's  Church,  and  at  the 
altar  where  the  epitaph  or  shrine  of  Saint  Thomas  is  standing, 
the  Emperor's  Majesty  and  the  King  of  England  heard  two 
masses,  and  the  King  was  standing  on  the  left-hand  side  of 
his  Majesty. 

After  the  same,  the  King  showed  the  Emperor's  Majesty 
the  epitaph  or  shrine  of  St.  Thomas,  which  seen  also  to  de- 
scribe or  to  demonstrate  its  preciousness  is  all  but  impossible 
on  account  of  the  most  excellent,  costly  and  precious  stones, 
pearls  and  jewels,  also  a  great  number  of  rings  with  their  set 
stones  and  pearls,  which  are  wrought  in  abundance  and  in- 
numerable ;  and  in  summer  such  is  a  wonderful  work,  of  such 
an  inestimable  value,  that  nobody  would  believe  it,  unless  he 
saw  it  himself. 

Item,  on  the  said  epitaph  by  far  the  most  excellent  among 
the  precious  stones  are  two  jewels,  given  by  a  King  of  France 
as  his  ransom  or  redeeming  fee,  which  are  worth  some  hun- 
dred thousand  crowns ;  and  the  meanest,  which  is  on  the 
epitaph,  is  the  gold. 


O?    CHAttLBS    V.   TO    ENGLAKD. 


Item,  the  church  of  St.  Thomas  is  about  two  hundred  and 

■v^'cnty  common  paces  long.     In  the  crypt  is  the  tonih  of  St. 

'3iom8s,  and  there  one  is  shown  a  chalice  of  St.  Thomas. 

>n  the  same  tumb  is  iixed  a  square  tablet  or  plate,  on  which 

written  or  engraved,  but  now  very  illegible,  Saint  Thomas's 

■  piltiaviuni,  which  was  found  on   his  corpse,  and  it  says: 

Hie  reqmescit  Thomas  de  obernensis,   Archiepiscobus  UrU 

.nnie.    Primas  et  sedis  apostolice  Legatus,    Quipm  justicia 

jure  ecclesie,  interfectus  estiiii  Kalendas  JanuariiMilleno 

'«nteri[a  aeptua." 

Moreover  there  is  on  the  left-hand  side  a  well  in  the  wall,  set 
■■  ■'^  atone^  with  a  writing  above  it,  saying  that  the  same  water 
■i^d  been  turned  once  into  milk  and  four  times  into  blood. 

Item,  the  monastery,  in  wtiich  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and 
tVie  King  of  England  had  taken  lodging,  i«  very  large  and  of 
^-    circle  sliape. 

On  the  said  Saturday,  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and  the  King 
*>f  England  *pent  the  night  at  a  large  market-town,  called 
Sitlingbourne, 

On  Sunday,  the  Ist  of  June,  we  remained  at  night  at  Ro- 
'^Ottter,  a  small  town  and  see  of  a  bishop. 

And  on  Monday  xve  went  to  Greenwich,  six  English  miles 
*"»'om  London,  where  the  daughter  of  the  King  of  England 

•^y^e  entrance  of  the  Emperor's  Majesty  in  London  in  England. 

On  Saturday^  the  Gth  of  June,  the  Emperor's  Majesty  aud 
*-^»c  King  of  England  entered  I>ondon  on  horseback. 

First,  the  streets  from  the  very  beginning  of  the  city  until 
'■ncpalace,throiigb  which  the  Emperor''s  Majesty  and  the  King 
^^  England  had  to  ride,  were  all  covered  with  sand,  and  from 
*-neJi(,uses  down  hung  tapestry.     There  were  also  performed 
''^^  tbe  same  streets  about  seven  spectacles,  very  nicely  and 
ueautifullyj  by  the  merchants  and  gentlemen  of  the  city  of 
Uindun. 

ll«iD,  in  the  first  show  were  sitting   or  standing  several 
JMiSons  dressed   as  the  seven    I'rinces  Electors,  and  in  the 
VOL.   VII.  Q 


216  ACCOUNT    OP    THB    VISIT 

midst  of  them   the   Emperor's   Majesty,  very   nicely   and 
sumptuously,  with  their  coats  of  arms,  dresses  and  jewels. 

Item,  in  the  other  show  the  genealogies  of  the  German 
Emperors  and  the  Kings  of  England,  men  and  women,  were 
represented  by  beautiful  girls  and  boys,  clad  most  prettily 
in  royal  robes,  with  crowns  on  their  heads  and  sceptres  and 
swords  in  their  hands,  very  amusing  to  look  at;  and  other 
matters  in  the  other  spectacles,  the  nicest  shows  to  look  at. 

Item,  the  first,  who  rode  before,  were  the  lords  and  gentle- 
men of  the  King  of  England,  in  black  velvet  coats,  some  of 
them  with  golden  pieces  and  with  golden  chuns,  about  three 
hundred. 

They  were  followed  by  the  gentlemen  of  the  city  of 
London,  about  forty,  in  scarlet  coats;  but  after  the  same 
followed  several  English  lords,  and  the  trumpeters  of  the 
King  and  the  Emperor's  Majesty  all  together,  after  the  same 
some  of  the  courtiers  of  the  Emperor's  Majesty,  in  their  vel- 
vet coats,  after  the  same  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  English 
gentlemen,  very  richly  adorned  in  velvet  and  golden  chains. 

Item,  then  came  the  brother-in-law  of  the  King  of  England, 
on  his  left  side  the  Marquis  Hans  of  Brandenburg,  and  before 
him  the  Prince  of  Orange  and  the  Marquis  of  Aerschot  and 
other  great  lords,  in  their  golden  pieces  and  chains,  on  beau- 
tifully-caparisoned stallions. 

After  the  same  followed  the  heralds  of  the  Emperor's 
Majesty  and  on  both  their  sides  six  men  with  gilt  sceptres ; 
then  two  men  came  riding  with  two  silver  crosses,  and  after 
them  on  horseback  the  Cardinal  of  England,  and  after  bim 
a  man  with  a  golden  sword,  who  introduced  the  Emperor's 
Majesty,  after  him  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and  the  King  of 
England.  And  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  wore  the  order  of 
the  King  of  England  round  the  neck,  and  the  King  the  order 
of  the  Emperor,  in  their  golden  pieces,  both  after  the  same 
fashion  and  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Then  came  riding  the  archers  of  the  Emperor's  Majesty  and 
the  King  of  England,  very  well  adorned,  about  two  hundred. 
And  wlien  they  had  come  to  the  great  church,  they  alighted 


07    DHARLESI    V.   TO    ENGLAND. 


217 


tTiereat  ant]  went  in  ;  there  was  prepared  in  the  mtdiat  of  the 
ctiurch  a  bench  covered  witli  cluth  of  gold  and  cushions,  on 
iwliich  they  knelt  down,  and  immediately  was  sung  with  great 
solemnity  Te  Deum  iandamm. 

I  When  that  was  done,  they  rode  to  their  lodgings  in  the 
pa.lace,  which  is  a  large  and  beautiful  building.  All  ruoins 
throughout,  especially  those  in  which  the  Eraperor's  Ma- 
jesty and  the  King  of  England  are  staying,  are  of  such  ex- 
cellent, inestimable  and  skilful  workmanship^and  everywhere 
Covered  with  tapestry,  as  one  has  never  seen  the  like, 
H  During  the  four  days  that  his  MajciSty  stayed  at  Greenwich, 
■  the  King  of  England  kept  much  entertainment  with  banquets, 
dances,  jousts,  tournaments  and  other  the  like,  and  everybody 

Iw^as  given  gratis  to  cat  and  to  drink. 
The  account  of  the  reception  of  the  Emperor  Charles 
V.  in  England  was  discovered  in  tbe  celebrated  collec- 
tion of  books  and  antiquities,  formerly  preserved  in  the 
B  *^nslle  of  Anibras  in  the  Tyrol,  at  present  in  the  Trape- 
rial  Library  at  Vienna.     It  is  an  old  and  evidently 
^  <-"ODteniporary  print  in  small  quarto,  but  unfortunately 
f  a  mere  fragment  of  only  lour  leaves.    The  two  rubrics 
^re  printed  with  red  type,  and  the  first  is  embellished 
hy  some  rude  arabesques  in  woodcut,  the  centre  of 
*hich  19  meant  to  be  the  Emperor. 

The  author,  as  an  eye-witness,  was  certainly  among 

Ihe  Emperor's  company,  perhaps  one  of  his  heralds, 

whose  duty  it  was  to  describe  the  visit  at  tlie  English 

court  in   the   style   of  a  journal,  for  distribution  in 

print.     However,  the  German,  the  orthograpliy,  and 

tkie  style  of  the  production  are  abominable,  and   of 

^Wt  uncouth  and  illogical  character  which  was  always 

'I'ericral  in   Germany  before  the  influence  of  Luther's 

0  *i 


* 


218  CHARLES    V.'S    VISIT    TO    ENOLAND. 

translation  of  the  Bible  made  itself  felt.  It  is  therefore 
all  but  impossible  to  venture  on  a  literal  translation  of 
even  such  a  simple  description. 

There  is  a  good  account  of  the  Emperor's  doings  in 
England,  when  he  came  over  in  May,  1522,  in  Her- 
bert's 'Life  and  Reign  of  King  Henry  VIII.,'  Kennel's 
History  of  England,  vol.  ii.  p.  47;  and  it  will  be  seen 
by  comparison,  that  all  the  dates  of  the  German  diary 
agree  with  it,  with  the  single  exception  of  the  day 
when  the  cavalcade  entered  the  city  of  Lx)ndon,  which 
should  of  course  be :  "  Sambstag,  den  siebenten  Junij" 
(Saturday,  the  seventh  day  of  June). 

I  cannot  tell  what  is  meant  by  "  aftermontag.**  The 
words  from  the  tomb  of  Thomas  a  Becket  may  be  both 
copied  wrongly  and  misprinted.  The  noblemen  who 
came  with  theEmperor.besides  theMarquis of  Aerschot, 
were,  the  Margrave  John  of  Brandenburg — who  had 
married  Germaine  de  Foix,  the  widow  of  Ferdinand 
the  Catholic,  of  Aragon,  and  held  the  place  as  Viceroy 
of  Valencia — and  Prince  Philibert  of  Orange.  The 
Emperor  resided  at  the  Black  Friars',  his  train  at  Bride- 
well. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  rest  of  the  fragment 
seems  to  be  lost,  as  it  would  have  contained  the  de- 
scription of  the  festivals  at  Windsor  with  the  journey 
to  Winchester  and  the  voyage  from  Southampton  to 
Spain.  Yet  such  as  it  is,  it  contains  curious  infor- 
mation by  a  foreigner,  especially  about  Becket's  shrine 
only  a  very  short  time  before  the  tomb  was  demolished. 


219 


^X.-JOURNAL  OF  A  TOUR  IN  ACARNANIA,  WITH  AC- 
COUNT OF  RUINS  OF  NEW  PLEURON,  GYFTO  CASTRO. 
-AND  PETRO  VOUNI. 

At  d.  i.  colnaohi,  Estt.,  bkitibh  vick-consul  at  uiisolonohi. 

(Read  November  27th,  1861.) 

I  HAVE  much  pleasure  in  laying  before  the  Society 
two  papers  forwarded  to  me  by  my  friend  Mr.  D.  E. 
Colnaghi,  one  containing  an  account  of  a  tour  he  has 
lately  made  throu<;h  the  south-west  district  of  Acar- 
nania,  with  interesting  notices  of  the  ruins  still  visible 
there,  and  of  the  present  state  of  the  country :  the 
other,  offering  some  curious  details  of  the  ruins  of 
New  Pleuron. 

There  were,  as  is  well  known,  two   cities  of  this 

name  in  ancient  times;  one  called  Old  Pleuron  (^ 

TraXmallXajpmv,  Strab.  X.  p.  451),  situated  in  the  plain 

hetween  the  Achelous  and  the  Evenus,  at  the  foot  of 

Mount  Curium ;  a  city,  which  supplied  troops  during 

the  Trojan  War,  under  their  leader,  Thoas,  the  son  of 

i      jl^neas  (Horn.  11.  ii.  v.  639).    This  city  is  said  to  have 

W  abandoned  by  its  inhabitants  (Strab.  x.  p.  451), 

owing  to  the  ravages  of  Demetrius  II.,  King  of  Mace- 

■lonia,  B.C.  239-229.     The  second.  New  Pleuron  (^ 

'f'^fpallXevpav),  which  was  built  by  the  inhabitants  of 


220  TOUa   IN    ACARNANIA. 

the  elder  city,  in  consequence  of  the  former  being  no  -^c 
longer  habitable.     It  is  stated  by  Pausanias  (vii.  1 1 ,  .^ 
^  3),  that  a  little  while  before  the  destruction  of  Corinth.^-: 
(B.C.  H6]  New  Pleuron,  then  a  member  of  theAchcean^czi 

League,  petitioned  the  Romans  to  be  dissevered  from  it zi 

The  site  of  the  new  town  has  been  examined  in  moderiKiix; 
times  with  more  or  less  care,  by  Dodwell  (*  Tour  through-::*"; 
Greece,'  i.  96),  Leake  ('Northern  Greece,* i.  115),attc=»^ 
Mure  ('Tour  in  Greece,'  i.  140). 

No  coins  have  been  discovered  that  can  be  attribute4»^^ 
to  either  of  these  cities. 

1  will  now  leave  Mr.  Colnaghi  to  tell  his  own  stor)^^  ~\ 

W.  S.  W.  Yavx. 


Missolongfai,  June,  1860. 
My  dear  , 

I  send  herewith  a  short  journal  of  my  first  toi 
through  Acarnania.    I  was  not  able  to  see  all  I  wishe 
as  there  is  some  difficulty  in  overcoming  the  prejudi 
of  the  peasants  to  strangers,  and  in  inducing  them 
point  out  where  remains  are ;  moreover,  official  duti 
compelled  my  return  to  Missolonghi  earlier  than  I  h^*- 
intended. 

May  14,  Monday. — Missolonghi  to  Vrachori,  eig^^ 
hours. 

We  ride  across  the  plain  of  Missolonghi,  leaviarxj 
the  ruins  of  New  Pleuron  on  our  right.  In  the  plai** 
behind,  is  the  town  of  Aitolico,  which  is  placed  on  an  i*-" 
land  in  the  centre  of  a  placid  lake ;  the  oHves  are  in  ful^ 


TOUR    IN    ACASNANIA..  221 

bloom;  further  on,  the  road  is  lined  by  the  Rhammu 
pcdmtris,  a  graceful  plant  with  light  green  leaves  and  a 
yellow  flower.   At  nine  we  entered  the  Kllssoura  Gorge, 
a  magnificent  chasm,   which   forms   a  way   through 
Mount  Aracynthus,  to  the  upper   plain  of  ^tolia. 
Baring  the  upheaval  of  this  range  of  mountains,  this 
goi^,  which  forms  a  rectangle,  and  is  about  two  miles 
in  length,  was  probably  caused   by  an   earthquake. 
The  mountains   on   either  side  of  the  narrow  path 
through  which  the  traveller  passes,  rise  nearly  two 
thousand  feet  in  height ;  the  summits  are  castellated, 
and  appear  like  the  ruins  of  feudal  castles  ;  there  are 
fine  caves  in  various  parts.      The  mountains  are  of 
limestone,  now  blue,  now  red  ;   the  tops  are  covered 
with  trees,  which  appear  like  mere  bushes  ;  and  the 
sides  of  the  hills  and  the  narrow  valley  are  rich  in 
vegetation.     Cattle,  sheep,  and  goats  graze   on   the 
mountain  side  ;  and  fine  eagles  soar  overhead.     Half- 
way through  the  gorge  is  a  ruined  monastery,  a  con- 
ventional halting-place.      Looking  back,  the  view  is 
glorious ;  through  the  entrance  of  the  gorge  you  see 
the  plain  and  head  of  the  lake  of  Aitolico,  with  moun- 
tain rising  above  mountain,  of  a  deep  blue  colour,  in 
the  distance.     From  the  monastery  the  road  ascends 
slightly.    The  scenery  becomes  still  wilder;  vast  boul- 
ders of  rock  lie  in  the  path,  and  the  masses  of  moun- 
tains are  sterner  and  more  solid.     A  small  barrack  for 
gendarmes  stands  on  a  rock  at  the  head  of  the  Klis- 
soura.     We  now  pass  through  a  richly-wooded  valley, 
with  a  mountain-stream  running  rapidly  through  it. 
Planes,  elms,  and  otlier  trees,  are  growing  in  wild  luxu- 
riance.    In  an  hour  and  a  half,  on  ascending  a  hill, 
we  have  a  fine  view  of  the  upper  plain  of  iEtoliu,  with 


TOUR    IN    ACARVANIA. 


i 


its  two  lakes  (Hyria  and  Trichonia),  surrounded  by 
woods.  In  the  plain  we  ride  through  forests  of  Valonea 
oaks ;  by  the  lakes  are  willows,  poplars,  and  a  thick 
jungle  of  underwood, — excellent  cover  for  woodcock. 
The  plain  is  partially  cultivated  with  corn,  but  the 
style  of  agriculture  is  very  primitive,  and  the  plougli, 
with  the  oxen  yoked  together  by  a  single  bar  of  wood, 
is  of  the  same  form  as  in  the  time  of  Homer. 

We  halt  at  the  Khan  ol"  Alaihe,  at  tlie  entrance  o 
the  Turkish  causeway,  which  crosses  the  marsh  be 
tween  the  two  lakes.  On  either  side  of  the  paved^^ 
road,  elms,  poplars,  willows,  and  fig-trees,  with  wildt:^ 
vines  and  creeping  plants  pendent  from  their  branches 
rise  in  graceful  confusion,  and  join  their  branche. 
overhead,  forming  a  canopy  impervious  even  to  »3 
Greek  sun.  TJiis  wood  extends  two  miles,  after  whiclr-f  =: 
we  come  to  a  rtne  glade  of  oaks,  and  then  turn  on  lc:>  9 
the  open  plain,  riding  west.  We  cross  a  river  shaded_»^ 
by  plane-trees,  and  have  a  fine  view.  On  our  right  «rJ 
rises  the  loft  summit  of  Araboce[}haIo,  at  this  momenf'  ^M 
covered  with  fleecy  clouds.  Before  us,  looking  west  ^  - 
is  the  plain  of  jEtolla,  with  the  vale  of  the  Achelous 
bounded  by  the  bold  mountains  of  Acarnania.  Oi 
the  left  of  tiie  plain  the  ruined  citadel  of  Angelo  Cast 
may  be  observed.  On  the  right  a  small  white  house 
on  an  eminence,  marks  the  site  of  Stratus,  above  h  hicl^ 
is  the  modern  village  of  Lepcnu.  la  one  hour  and  et 
quartei',  the  gardens  of  Vrachori,  planted  with  vines 
and  tobacco,  commence  ;  in  another  hour  we  reacli 
the  village  itself. 

Vrachori,  or  Agrinion  as  it  is  also  called,  though 
not  built  on  the  site  of  the  ancient  city  of  that  name, 
is  well  placed  on  a  rising  ground,  about  the  cealre  of 


TOUR    IN    ACARNANIA.  S23 

the  plain.     It  contains  about  three  thousand  inhabi- 
tants, and  as  the  chef-lieu  of  the  Eparchy  of  Trichonia 
's  graced  by  the  presence  of  an  Eparch,  a  jvge  de  paix^ 
^  commandant  of  gendarmerie,  and  two  companies  of 
^^gular  troops.     It  has  a  trade  in  tobacco  and  grain. 

Tuesday,  \htk May. — 'The  road  from  Vrachori  to  Stra- 
^Xis  (three  hours)  leads  us  through  the  plain,  past  the 
*^uined  Turkish  village  of  Zapandi, — where  the  remains 
^:>{  two  mosques  and  their  minarets  are  memorials  of 
^Afussulman  dominion  now  gone  by.     Thence  we  de- 
scend to  the  bed  of  the  Achelous,  but  before  reaching 
the  river  we  pass  (one  hour  and  a  quarter  from  Vra- 
chori), the  Calyvia  of  Spolaiti,  where  I  noticed  some 
"very  large  blocks  of  country  stone,  and  appearances  of 
-walls  on  the  mountain  on  the  right.     From  this  point 
we  enter  the  vale  of  the  Achelous,  and  passing  over 
some  meadow  land,  covered  with  wild  pear-trees,  soon 
reach  the  bed  of  the  river,  which  here  is  about  three- 
quarters  of  a  mile  in  breadth.  We  forded  two  or  three 
shallow  streams,  till  we  came  to  the  principal  one, 
which  runs  rapidly  down  by  the  right  bank.  The  ferry 
boat  came  over  to  meet  us,  and  we  were  landed  safely 
on  the  opposite  shore.  Soon  after  we  entered  the  ruins 
of  Stratus.      By  the  river-bank  the    women  of  the 
Vlach  village  of  Surovigli,  built  among  the  ruins,  were 
washing  their   clothes.      Some  were  handsome,   and 
their  blue  and   red  dresses — rather  succinct — had  a 
very  picturesque  appearance. 

The  city  of  Stratus  was  the  principal  town  of  Acar- 
nania,  and  was  frequently  mentioned  during  the  Ho- 
man  and  Macedonian  wars.  The  town  was  strongly 
forti6ed.  Stratus  was  built  on  a  spur  of  Mount  Pe- 
tala,  which   runs  down  by  the  river  into  the  vale  of 


224  TOU£    IN    ACARNANIA. 

the  Achelous.  On  a  height  three-quarters  of  a  mile 
from  the  plain  was  the  Acropolis.  From  the  At^o- 
polis  the  walls  were  carried  down  on  the  east  side  by 
the  river,  on  the  west  to  the  plain,  and  enclosed  four 
irregular  branches  of  the  spur,  running  north  and 
south.  Down  the  centre  ridge  was  a  wall,  apparently 
dividing  the  town  into  two  parts.  The  whole  circuit 
of  the  walls,  which,  according  to  Colonel  Leake,  are 
two  miles  and  a  half  in  circumference,  may  still  be 
traced. 

At  the  eastern  corner  of  the  south  wall,  facing  the 
plain,  is  a  postern  gate,  flanked  by  a  tower,  which 
forms  an  oblique  angle  with  the  gate.  The  two  blocks 
forming  the  architrave  of  the  gate  on  the  outside  are 
cut  so  as  to  form  an  arch.  The  blocks  of  which  the 
walls  are  built,  are  in  layers  of  irregular  size  and  rough 
workmanship,  but  carefully  fitted  together. 

Proceeding  west,  along  the  line  of  walls,  I  came  to 
an  arched  building,  formed  of  larger  limestone  blocks, 
most  carefully  fitted  together  without  cement.  The 
arch  begins  after  the  first  row  of  blocks,  each  block 
being  slightly  curved  inward.  On  the  east  side  is  a 
square  doorway,  blocked  up  externally  by  a  square 
mass  of  rock.  The  arch  at  the  end  of  the  building 
forms  the  segment  of  a  circle.  This  building,  which 
is  nine  feet  five  inches  in  length  by  six  feet  four  inches 
in  breadth,  can  only  have  been  used  as  a  tomb.  Its 
present  height  to  the  key-stone  of  the  arch  is  five  feet. 
The  key-stone  is  most  carefully  fitted  down  the  centre 
of  the  building.  This  tomb  runs  due  north  and  south, 
and  is  situated  about  twenty  paces  outside  the  city 
walls.  Close  by  is  another  tomb,  formed  of  four 
squared  blocks,  wliich  has  been  opened. 


TOUB    IN    ACAKNANIA. 


225 


At  the  soulh-west  corner  of  the  walls  is  another 

postern  gate,  resembling  iu  general  character  the  oue 

already  described. 
B      On  tbe  summit  of  a  biU  on  the  western  side  of 

the  citv  are  the  ruins  of  a  temple.     Drums  and  baees 

H-ol  columns,  with  squared  blocks  and  architraves,  are 

B-ouingled  together  in  shapeless  confusion.     The  temple 

^Jbad  apparently  never  been  finished ;  some  of  the  drums 

atid  bases  are  cut  into  the  Doric  form,  others  are  half 

Uni&hed,  while  the  remainder  are  merely  rounded  with 

I^he  knobs,  round  which  ropes  were  attached  to  bring 
ihem  from  the  quarries  still  left.  In  the  phiiu  below 
-were  ntany  blocks,  formerly  belonging  to  the  temple. 
Down  the  centre  of  the  town  runs  a  valley,  which 
"has  much  the  appearance  of  a  hippodrome.  On  tlie 
steep  side  of  a  hill  to  the  east  of  this,  are  the  renmiiis 
of  many  houses,  built  in  terraces.  The  theatre  may 
be  traced  in  a  hoUcw  on  the  south  side  of  the  town. 
But  very  little  is  left  ot  it.  The  position  of  the  seats 
may  still  be  traced.  The  diameter  is  about  fifty  paces. 
The  theatre  commands  a  view  of  the  plain,  partially 
obstructed  by  an  advancing  spur  of  the  bill. 

Following  the  line  of  the  interior  wall,  which  seems 

to  have  run  north  and  south  from  the  Acropolis  to 

the  plain,  we  come  to  a  gate  ten  feet  wide  facing  east 

and  west,  flanked  by  two  towers.     Under  the  wall  of 

tte  Acropolis,  which  forms  the  highest  peak  on  the 

liorth  side,  is  a  square  slab,  with  marks  on  it  as  if  it 

M  been  the  base  of  a  statue.     There  appears  to  have 

beeik  an  inscription  on  the  face,  which   is  quite  worn 

oyt.    The  walls  of  the  Acropolis  are  well  and  solidly 

^uill;  from  the  summit  is  a  fine  view  showing  the 

^rwm  vale  of  the  Achelous  and  mountains  beyond,  On 


226 


TOUE    IN    ACAtlNANIA, 


llie  left,  the  plain  of  yEtoIia  loses  itself  in  tlje  mountain 
range  above  Naupactus.  My  guide  over  tLie  ruins 
styled  himself  the  Didaskalos  (or  schoolmaster)  of  the 
village.  He  htid  travelled  with  Mr.  Leon  Heuzey,  a 
member  of  the  French  school  at  Athens,  and  under 
his  2;uidance  had  become  a  zealous,  and  really  acute 
antiquarian.  I  stayed  in  the  house  of  Mika  .lanco, 
the  chief  of  the  Karagounides,  the  sliepherd-tribe  who 
live  at  Surovigli.  During  summer  they  retire  to  the 
mountains  above  Carpenisi.  Mika  had  a  house,  but 
the  rcist  of  the  village  consisted  chiefly  of  Calyvia,  or 
huts  built  of  reeds,  much  resembling,  1  should  fancy, 
Indian  wigwams.  My  host  was  a  fine  old  man,  and 
trented  me  with  nmch  hospitality.  He  was  tierce 
Jigainst  the  Turks,  and  told  me  his  villnge  could  turn 
out  sixty  or  seventy  muskets.  He  is  rich,  possessing 
6ocks  and  herds,  and  land,  but  says  thnt  be  prefers 
living:  in  Vlach  or  shepherd -style,  of  which  dirt  and 
fleas  form  a  prominent  feature,  than  indulging  in  the 
chairs  and  tables  of  the  Frank,  of  whom  he,  in  coni- 
raon  with  the  inhabitants  of  Greece,  generally,  enter- 
tains a  cordial  dislike.  Jealousy  of  strangers  is  still 
the  most  marked  feature  of  the  inhabitants  of  this 
country.  When  they  know  you,  they  are  all  hospi- 
tality, but  till  they  do,  you  are  treated  with  extraor- 
dinary distrust. 

Wednes^day,  May  16. — Stratus  (Surovigli)  to  Cara- 
vasera,  stx  hours. 

Left  Stratus  at  9.15  am.  About  fifteen  minutes 
to  the  west  of  the  village,  in  the  plain  which  is  called 
Alonia,  are  the  remains  of  a  large  building  with  squared 
blocks  for  a  pavement.  At  11.10  we  reached  the 
khan  and  military  station  of  Kouvara.  The  road  Ihjouijh 


TOUH    IN     A.CARNANIA. 


227 


wbicli  we  had  passed,  had  led  us  first  through  the 
|jlaia  of  the  AchelouB.  We  then,  turning  to  the  north, 
rode  through  a  valley  j  the  mountains  and  vale  covered 
with  fine  Ibre&ts  of  the  valonea  oak.  This  part  of 
Acaruania  has  only  been  cleared  of  brlgandg  since 
I85G.  Between  1850  and  1855  more  than  forty  per- 
sons were  killed  in  this  pass  by  the  robbers  ;  and  the 
khan  of  Kouvara  was  three  times  burnt  down  by  them  : 
once,  I  believe,  with  the  proprietor  inside.  This  was 
also  the  high-road  for  the  expedition  into  Turkey  in 
1854. 

From  Kouvara  the  valley,  which  is  undulating,  nar- 
rows at  tirst,  till  in  half  an  hour  we  reach  the  head  of 
the  Lake  of  Caravasera,  where  the  fields  are  cultivated. 
^Shortly  after  we  pass  the  military  station  of  Ridio,  at 
the  entrance  of  a  fine  oak  forest^  through  which  we 
ride  for  more  than  an  hour.  Passing  over  open  ground 
by  the  lake,  we  cross  the  vallt-y  at  the  end  of  it,  and 
ascending  a  rocky  hill,  enter  a  narrow  pass,  which 
in.  a  few  minutes  takes  us  to  Caravasera, 

Caravasera  is  a  rising  commercial  town,  containing 
about  two  hundred  houses.  It  is  situate  on  a  narrow 
ledge  between  the  mountains  and  the  sea,  at  tlie  end 
of  a  fine  bay,  forming  the  south-east  angle  of  the  Am- 
Ijraciot  Gulf.  It  is  the  chief  town  of  the  Eparchy  of 
"Valto,  has  an  export  trade  in  valonea  and  wool,  and 
imports  coffee,  sugar,  and  manufactured  goods  for  the 
use  of  the  province. 

Thursday,  May  17.—  On  the  stony  mountain  beliind 
the  town,  are  situate  the  ruins  of  the  city  of  Limnsea. 
The  walls  were  carried  round  the  crtst  of  tlie  hill,  and 
«loM  n  to  tiie  sea  on  the  east  and  west  sides.  The 
wnlt  on  the  west  supported  u   road,   which  probably 


228  TOCB    IN    ACABNAHIA. 

led  up  to  the  principal  entrance  to  the  town.    Th^ 
walls  hare  been  greatly  destroyed,  bat  Uie  whole  cir-— 
cnit  can  be  traced.    They  appear  to  have  been  care — 
fully  built,  of  lai^  limestone  blocks,  fitted  togetfaei — 
without  cement*  with  towers  at  various  intervals.    A^ 
colony  of  Albanians  was  planted  among  the  ruins  by 
the  celebrated  Ali  Pasha  of  Janina.     The  remains  of 
their  church  and  houses  are  still  to  be  seen.     From 
the  top  of  the  hill  looking  south  is  a  fine  view  of  the 
valley  we  passed  through  yesterday,  surrounded  by 
mountains,  with  the  lake  which  probably  gave  its  name 
to  the  town.   Towards  the  north,  the  Ambraciot  Gulf, 
with  the  bold  and  lofty  mountains  of  Arta,  are  spread 
out  before  us. 

The  wall  down  the  side  of  the  hill  on  the  north-east 
side  was  well  and  strongly  built  of  lai^  blocks  of 
various  sizes,  well  fitted  together,  though  roughly  hewn 
on  the  outside.  In  some  parts  the  interior  lining  of 
the  wall  was  of  polygonal  masonry.  The  wall  forms 
an  angle  on  approaching  the  base  of  the  hill.  About 
halfway  down  is  a  postern  gate  resembling  those  at 
Stratus. 

Caravasera  to  Lutraki,  three  hours  and  a  half. 

The  exit  from  the  town  is  over  a  steep  and  stony 
mountain,  which  has  to  be  crossed  on  foot,  for  road 
there  is  none.  More  than  an  hour's  walk  over  barren 
hill,  when  we  descend  into  a  plain,  and  see  the  lai^ 
village  of  Catuna,  on  the  mountains  to  the  south-west. 
We  now  pass  through  a  splendid  forest  of  valonea 
oaks,  down  and  round  the  side  of  a  mountain,  with 
once  a  little  peep  of  the  sea  through  an  opening  in  the 
wood.  The  road  then  turned  down  a  valley,  and  over 
a  hill,  covered  with  trees  with  graceful  foliage,  till  we 


TOUH    IH    ACABNANIA. 


I 


I 


caine  upon  tJie  Bay  of  Lutraki,  a  beautiful  little  creek. 
It  was  just  evening,  and  a  quiet  glow  softened  the 
whole  scene.  Lutrald  consists  of  a  few  huts  and 
magazines,  situated  on  a  fertile  plain,  at  the  edge  of 
the  creek.  There  is  a  beautiful  group  of  plane-trees 
in  the  village. 

Friday,  May  18. — Lutraki  to  Vonitza,  five  hours  and 
a  half. 

About  fifteen  minutes  to  the  west  of  the  village, 
We  cross  a  river  with  steep  banks  and  a  wooden  bridge. 
A.I1  old  Turkish  or  mediaeval  bridge  of  stone  once 
spanned  the  stream,  round  which  is  a  fine  wood  of 
plane-trees.  On  the  top  of  a  small  hill  are  the  remains 
of  buildings  with  some  ancient  blocks  in  the  centre, 
^nd  the  foundations  of  walls  round.  AH  over  the  hill 
8re  blocks  of  stone,  and  coarse  pottery. 

The  chief  remains  appear  to  be  medJEEval  or  Byzan- 

"itie,  but  there  are  someancieat  blocks-     Their  position 

's    distant  about  five  minutes  from  the  sea.     For  two 

^'Ours  we  passed  over  the  plain — ^generally  cultivated 

^vith  corn — when  we  descended  into  a  glen,  where  there 

's    a  Turkish  well  surrounded  by  fine  trees,  and  the  re* 

i^^ains  of  a  paved  road.  We  now  pass  up  the  mountain 

s*c3e  in  a  southerly  direction  and  enter  an  undulating 

v"aJley,  partially  cultivated  and  partially  covered  with 

trees  and  thick  underwood,  through  which  we  ride.  We 

^c>on  come  to  the  remains  of  some  ancient  buildings.  On 

*  'tnoll  to  the  right  of  the  road  are  ruins  composed  of 

stjuared  blocks,  part  of  a  column,  some  coarse  tiles,  and 

Portions  of  more  modern  buildings.  A  little  further  on, 

^^  a  small  chapel,  are  two  small  columns.     The  whole 

^'•^od,  which  is  on   rising  ground,  is  filled  with  the 

■^^ijains  of  an  ancient  city — accordins  to  Leake — that 


TOUR    IN    ACARNAXIA. 


of  Ecliinus.    1  saw  uo  monuments  worthy  of  remark  ; 
Ijut  the  wood  should  be  explored,  as  iascriptions  might 
be  found  there.     As  we  near  the  village,  we  pass  the 
walls  of  the  town,  built  of  large  squared  blocks,  but  in 
a  very  ruhied  state.     They  cross  a  ravine  at  this  point, 
(Iowa  which  a  torrent  runs  in  winter.     The  acropolis 
appears  to  have  been  on  an  eminence  on  the  north 
side  of  the  village,  on  which  is  the  modern  church. 
There  are  the  reinaius  of  buildings  here,  composed  of 
large  blocks  of  a  kind  of  pudding-stone.    The  acropolis- 
commanded  the  whole   city,  which  had  a  circuit  of 
about  one  mile  and  a  half  or  two  miles,  and  extended, 
round  two  hills  to  the  level  ground  in  the  valley.   From. 
this  spot  there  is  a  fine  view — a  stretch  of  undula- 
ting country,  covered  with  corn  and  woods — as  far  as 
Vonitza,  the  fortified  liill  of  which  towu  is  just  visible 
by  the  sea.     Beyond  the  town  is  Cape  Madonna.     On 
the  opposite  coast  Prevesa  may  be  seen,  while  on  the 
left>  across  the  gulf,  rise  the  fine  mountains  of  Epirus. 
From  Ai  Vasili,  we  passed  down  into  a  rich  valley, 
cultivated  with  corn — having  on  our  left  the  mountains 
about  Zaverda  and  those  of  Sta.  Maura.    In  about  one 
hour  and  a  half  we  saw  some  squared  blocks  on  the 
right  of  the  road,  on  a  little  knoll  on  the  left,  a  tine 
wooded  ravine,.  In  a  quarter  of  an  hour  we  descended 
into  the  plain   of  Vonitza.     On  a  round  hill  called 
Maj^oula,  in  the  plain,  is  an  Hellenic  wall.     In  about 
an  hour  and  a  half  we  enter  Vonitza.     The  town  is 
built  on  a  bold  oblong  hill,  which  rises  abruptly  from 
the  plain  by  the  sea,  and  is  crowned  by  a  Venetjau 
castle.     Ganlens  are  prettily  interspersed  among  the 
houses.      Vonitza  contains  about  oive    thousand    four 
hundred    inhabitants,  and    is   the  chief  town  of   the 


TOU&    IN    ACARNANU. 


I 


I 

I 


Eparchy  of  Zyromero.  There  is  a  trade  in  wool,  and 
when  the  harvest  is  goad  Indian  corn  is  exported  to 
Prevesa. 

Sfiturdaify  May  19, — Started  about  nine  a.m.  for 
Agios  Petros  (Anactorium)  en  route  ibr  Actium  (four 
hours). 

We  passed  along  the  plain  to  Cape  Madonna,  and 
then  crossed  tlie  base  of   the   cape   through  a  thick 
cover  of  Rhamntts  palustris.     About  five  minutes  be- 
fore arriviug  at  Agios  Petros  (a  deserted  chape!)^  I  saw 
several  Greek  tombs,  formed  of  squared  slabs,  situated 
a  little  off  the  path,  at  a  place  called  Ambelakia,    The 
tombs  had  been  opened,  and  I  only  saw  a  few  pieces  of 
coarse  pottery  lying  about.     We  emerged  from  here 
into  a  little  plain  covered  with  shrubs  and  stones,  by 
the  sea.     On  our  right  is  a  hill,  probably  the  acropolis 
of  Anactorium  ;  in  the  valley  is  a  marsh.     Under  the 
hill  are  the  remains  of  a  building  formed  of  large  blocks 
of  blue  limestone.     Round  the  edge  of  the   cliff,  for 
"Iwut  a  mile,  are  here  and  there  blocks,  apparently  the 
remains  nf  a  sea-wall  ;  from  the  top  of  the  hill  is  a  fine 
Wew  of  the  Gulf  of  Arta,  and  the  mountains  of  Epirus, 
We  now  forded  a  small  bay.     On  a  hill,  hut  over- 
pxtvm  with  thick  cover,  are  some  ancient  blocks.     I 
*aw  some  Greek  remains  in  two  or  three  other  places 
^  vve  passed  along.  In  the  thick  of  the  wood,  by  a  small 
^**^am,  are  the  remains  of  an  ancient  wall,  composed 
^f  large  squared  blocks ;  and  in  the  bed  of  the  stream, 
^  found  two  or  three  pieces  of  an  ancient  vase.     The 
*'^^pherds  who  were  guiding  us  through  the  forest,  told 
^e  that  they  had  found  several  vases  in  tombs  about 
"^re,  but  bad  broken  them  up.     The  place  is  called 
■^^T"kondavlaco.    We  rode  on  irom  here  to  the  promon- 

VOL.  VII.  R 


232 


tOVK   IN    ACA&NANIA. 


tory  of  Actium.  At  the  base  of  the  sandy  spit  of  land 
ends  the  Greek  territory,  Turkey  commanding  both 
sides  of  tlie  entrance  to  the  Gulf  of  Arta.  We  rode 
over  the  plain  where  Antony's  troops  were  encamped 
before  the  celebrated  battle  of  Actium,  and  soon  after 
reached  Fort  Punta,  where  is  a  g;arrison  of  Turkish  sol- 
diers. Across  the  channel  is  situated  the  town  of  Pre- 
vesa ;  tite  distance  of  this  shore  to  the  other  is  abou 
half  a  mile. 

I  crossed  over  to  Prevesa  in  the  afternoon.  Pre— 
vesa  is  a  town  of  about  five  thousand  inhabitants,  con-^ 
sisting  of  Turks,  Greeks,  and  Jews,  It  is  well  forti 
fied,  and  has  a  strong  garrison.  About  an  hour  fro 
the  town,  are  the  ruins  of  NicopoUs,  or  the  City 
Victory,  built  by  Augustus  after  his  victory  at  Actium. 
The  road  to  the  ruins  leads  through  a  beautiful  olive- 
wood.  The  ruins  are  very  fine  from  their  immense 
c^xtent,  and  stand  in  an  open  plain,  stretching  down 
on  both  sides  to  the  sea.  The  principal  remains  are 
the  citadel,  the  baths,  the  small  theatre,  and  the  larg;e 
amphitheatre,  close  to  which  is  the  stadium.  All  the 
buildings  are  of  Roman  brickwork.  It  is  probabla 
that  some  of  the  more  important  were  cased  in  marble. 
The  whole  scene  reminds  one  of  Italy  more  than  of 
Greece. 

Tuesday,  May  22. — Left  Prevesa  by  the  Austriaa 
steamer  for  Sta.  Maura.  We  passed  over  the  spot  where 
the  naval  action  was  fought  between  the  rival  fleets  of 
Antony  and  Augustus,  outside  the  Bay  of  Prevesa, 
and  in  an  hour  were  at  Sta.  Maura.  The  town  (Ama 
chi)  is  situate  at  the  end  of  a  lagoon  about  a  mil 
and  a  half  in  length.  The  castle,  which  is  principal! 
Veut^tian,  is  placed  at  the  head  of  the  lagoon,  and 


TOUR    IN    ACARNANIA. 


233 


only  separated  from  the  neighbouring  coast  of  Acar- 
naaia,  of  which,  at  one  time,  the  island  formed  a  part, 
fjy  a  narrow  strait,  which  is  fordable  below  the  town. 
A  canal  to  enable  vessels  to  approach  the  town  is  being 
"^Ut,  and  though  not   yet   finished,  has    already  cost 
^OhOOO.     Amaxichi  contains  about  five  thousand  in- 
habitants ;  the  island  twenty-five  thousand.     The  in- 
habitants of  the  interior  are  called  Leucadians,  after 
I  the  ancient  name  of  the  island  Leucas,  and  are  most 
Indignant  if  called  Santa-Mauriotes,  a  name  which  pro- 
r  J>erly  belongs  to  the  fortress  only.  Sta.  Maura  is  fertile^ 
fi&xid  produces  oil  and  wine  in  large  quantities.     Round 
the  town  there  are  beautiful  olive-groves,  which  form 
>lcasant  walks.     The  houses  are  low,  on  account  of 
Lhe  frequency  of  earthquakes.     In  1825,  the  town  was 
mtirely  destroyed  by  an  earthquake,  and  a  Turkish 
iqueduct  which  conveyed  water  to  the  citadel,  and  es- 
tablished a  communication  between  the  town  and  the 
fort,  was  likewise  ruined.     The  churches  are  low,  with 
Hielfries,  and  have  rather  a  Venetian  air,  which  indeed 
[jiervades  the  whole  town.     The  ruins  of  the  ancient 
city  of  Leucas  are  situated  on  two  hills,  about  a  mile 
and  a  half  south-east  of  the  town,  and  extends  down  to 
the  sea.     The  walls  ascending  the  hiU  are  composed  of 
large  blocks  roughly  squared,  and  in  some  parts  are 
polygonal.      They  appear   to   have  been,  of  immense 
strength.     The  ancient  port  was  at  a  spot  now  called 
Spasmeni  Vrisi,  from  a  fountain.    The  sea  has  receded 
here.     Many  tomba  have   been  found  on  a  hill   by 
the  walls  of  the  old  city.     I  copied  several  fragmentary 
inscriptions  from  tombs.     A  gate  of  the  city,  and  large 
portions  of  the  walls  were  taken  down  by  a  former 
Resident,  to  build  a  church  outside  the  town.     The 

R  2 


I 


234  TOUR    IN    ACARNANIA. 

church  is  not  built,  and  the  olive-grove  near  it  is  filled 
with  the  blocks  taken  from  Leucas. 

Friday,  25th  May. — Rowed  over  to  Palaiochalia  and 
are  once  more  in  Acarnania.  Palaiochalia  to  Kekro- 
poula,  three  hours. 

We  leave  Palaiochalia  at  11.30,  and  pass  through 
a  pretty  valley  partially  cultivated.  In  an  hour  cross 
over  to  the  mountain  on  the  left,  and  through  the  vil- 
lage of  Ptaya,  which  contains  eighty-two  families.  Our 
road  now  takes  us  through  a  fine  oak  forest,  up  the 
mountain  side  in  a  southerly  direction.  In  two  hours 
more  we  pass  the  remains  of  buildings  in  the  wood, 
and  soon  see  the  ruins  at  Kekropoula  which  are  placed 
on  the  crest  of  a  steep  and  rocky  hill,  on  the  north 
side,  and  looking  into  the  plain  of  Zaverda.  These 
ruins  may  mark  the  site  of  the  city  of  Palserus.  The 
city  was  built  round  the  crest  of  two  hills  ;  in  the  centre 
is  a  valley  forming  a  natural  amphitheatre.  The  walls 
are  built  of  squared  blocks  of  stone,  and  in  parts  are 
cyclopaean.  The  entire  circuit  of  the  walls  exists,  but 
they  are  more  perfect  on  the  west  and  north-west  thaa 
on  the  other  sides. 

In  the  interior  of  the  west  wall  are  a  flight  of  steps, 
leading  up  to  the  battlements,  in  perfect  preservation. 
The  height  of  the  wad  at  this  place  is  thirty-nine  feet. 

On  the  north-west  side  of  the  town  is  an  arched 
gateway, —  the  arch,  formed  of  blocks  carefully  cut  to 
the  position  of  each  and  well  fitted  together  without 
cement.  From  here  there  is  a  fine  view  of  the  Gulf  of 
Arta.  On  the  plain  beneath  is  the  Lake  Myrtuntium. 
Inside  the  town,  facing  north,  are  the  foundations  of  a 
building  formed  of  large  squared  blocks.  Facing  the 
south-west  is  a  square  gateway,  with  a  tower  on  the 
east  side. 


TOUR    IN    ACARNANIA.  235 

In  the  valley  below  the  city  are  many  tombs,  chiefly 

formed  of  four  squared  slabs.  But  I  noticed  among  them 

some  large  crocks,  Piihi,  similar  to  those  found  by  Mr, 

Cal?ert  on  the  plain  of  Troy.*     The  tombs  had  been 

open,  the  slabs  broken  being  required  for  the  belfry  of 

the  church  at  Zaverda. 

We  now  passed  down  the  plain  of  Zaverda,  through 
Cornfields  intermixed  with  the  Rhamnus  pabtstris  and 
Oak-trees.  We  had  a  fine  view  of  the  blue  sea  and  blue 
l^ls  of  Santa  Maura,  Cefalonia,  and  Ithaca. 

The  village  of  Zaverda  is  prettily  situnted  in  a  little 
Creek ;  behind  the  village  rises  a  fine  rocky  mountain, 
called  Livitova.  Zaverda  contains  about  twelve  hundred, 
inhabitants ;  its  principal  trade  is  in  the  export  of  cat- 
tle for  the  use  of  the  garrisons  of  the  Ionian  Islands. 

Left  Zaverda  at  11.30  p.M.jin  a  country-boat  with 
lateen  sails,  for  Mytica,  a  village  situate  on  a  point  of 
land  in  a  fertile  plain,  opposite  the  lofty  and  rocky 
island  of  Calamo.  The  day  was  hot,  and  we  were 
pressed  for  time,  and  could  only  ride  over  to  the  village 
of  Candela,  on  the  north  side  of  the  plain,  where  are  the 
niins  of  Alyzia,  which  we  only  were  able  to  inspect 
superficially.  I  copied  two  or  three  inscriptions. 
There  is  excellent  red-deer  shooting  in  the  mountains 
about  here. 

From  Mytica  a  fair  wind  carried  us  down  in  seven 
^ours  to  San  Sosti,  at  the  head  of  the  lagoon  of  Misso- 
*Onghi.  We  passed  the  bold  mountains  of  Acarnania, 
^lae  mouth  of  the  Acheloiis,  and  bet\Yeen  the  group  of 
islands  (the  Echinades)  which  lie  off  there.  The  next 
^Horning  early  we  were  anchoied  off  the  town  of 
^issolonghi. 

*  'Archaeological  Journal,'  xvi.  p.  1, 


236 


TOUB    IN    ACARNANIA. 


MEASUREMENTS,  bto. 


Gate.— South  WaU.—Stratus. 

Height  of  gate  to  base  of 
arched  stone  .  .  . 
Height  to  centre  of  arch 
Width  of  gate  .  .  . 
Pepth  of  wall      .    .     . 


Irat 

M. 

jSt«  o/tome  of  the  Bleda  of  IP" 

«z 

ft. 

in. 

ft.  in.     ft.  in.     it. 

a  I 

8 

0 

Height...  3     7  ...  3  9  ...  1 

t 

10 

0 

Depth  ...  1     9  ...  2  0  ...  1 

10 

5 

3 

Length...  4  10...  6  2  ...  4 

9 

8 

6 

Present  height  of  wall   1 3  ft.  ^ 

— »   u 

Rough  Sketch.— Gate  and  Tower, 


Arched  Tom6  outside  Mouth  wall, 
west  comer.  Stratus. 

ft.  in. 
Present  height  to  centre 

of  arch 5  0 

Length 9  5 

Breadth 6  4 

Doorway,  height  (about)      3  6 

Breadth 2  7 


Rounded  block  at  end  of  Tomb. 


[Kcee  fllted  into  comer. 


Square  Tbmb  by  arched  builds  ^^3- 

ft-  "• 

Length  of  tomb    ...     5  ^ 

Breadth 2  ^ 

Thickness  of  each   slab 

(about) 0  ^ 


Temple,  Stratus. 

Diameter  of  drum  of  co- 
lumn (unfinished)  .     . 

Diameter  of  base  of  co- 
lumn (unfinished)  .     . 

Length  of  architravewith 
triglyph 

Width  between  each 
chaQQeUing  .... 


1 
1 

11 
7 


MBASUBBHBNTS,    ETC. 


237 


Stctm  /  bate  of  Colmim. 


Length,  etc., of  block,  ia plain  beUmt 
Tempte, 

ft.    ID. 

Length 5     4 

Breadth  ' 4     2 

Depth 0     7 

Diameter  of  theatre,  aboat  fifty 
paces. 


Rough  Sketch  of  Gate  in  interior  wall,  Straiua. 

W.F.' 


WALL 


■itf' 


S.  PACES 


.■** 


Fovndationi  of  holdings  in  the  plain  of  Altmia,  near  Stratus, 

31.  PACES 


4B    PACES 


***iuea,  size  of  blocks  of  walla  on 
hill. 
~  ft.  in. 

^•^agth 3     0 

2     3 

, 4     6 


■  «igbt 
'«pth 


1     7 
1     6 


^  Arched  Gate,  wall  descending  to  sea. 

Sleight  of  gate  to  centre 

of  arch 6     2 

■toiameter  of  ditto       ..39 
^3epth  of  wall    ....     5     4 


^  DUmetcr  about  1 1  inchei. 


Section  of  base  of  column. 


Block  in  Acropolis,  Echinus. 
Length  ....  about     3     0 
Height  .     .     .     .      „         10 
Depth     .     .     .     ,     „        2     0 


238 


MBASVREMBNTS,    ETC. 


Block  fonuiog  arch 

on  right     .     .     .    7  4  by  1  2 
Ditto  on  left       .     .   5  0  ..  1  2 


Anactorittm.  Block.  Ruitu  of  build- 
ing under  hill.       ft.  in. 

Length 5     9 

Height 1   10 

Depth 10 


Rough  Sketch  of  Gate,  north-vfeat  wall  of  Kekropouta. 


SIEPS 

ILLLLLLLL 


a. PACES 
Present  height  of  gate  six  feet.     Length  of  passage  into  town. 
eight  paces. 


Gateway  facing  $outh-west  Kekropoula.    Rough  sketch. 


South-uest  Gate,  Kekropoula. 
ft.  in. 
Breadth    of    supports  of 

gate 4     3 

Width  of  gate  ....79 

Height 8     5 

Stone  architrave,  length  .11     7 

„  „         breadth     2     6 

„  „  depth  .     1     0 


TOWER 

9  pftCEa. 

Stepe  in  west  wall,  Kekropoula. 
ft.  in. 
Length  of  step      ...     4     0 
Height       „  ...     1     0 

Stones  forming  west  wall  gene- 
rally 2ft.  10  in.  by  2  ft.  5  in. 

Tomb  in  Valley. 

Length 5  7 

Width 2  li 

Depth 2  3 

Breadth  of  slabs  .     .     .  0  4j 


KEW    PCEURON. 


239 


NEW  PLEUaON. 


*4J 

L 

C,  Fetro  Vojiiii. 


Situdtion. —  The  niias 
which  now  bear  the  name 
of  the  Castle  of  the  Lady 

Ir&ne     {Katrrpov    tiJf    K.vptay 

Etpi\i'^i),  and  which  are  ge- 
nerally considered  to  be 
those  of  New  Pleuron  (^ 
vitoTipa  nXevpwi'),  are  situ- 
ate on  a  spur  of  Mount 
Zygos  (Aracynthus),  which 
^^fetches  out  into  the  plain  of  Misssolonghi,  about 
'-nree  miles  to  the  west  of  that  town. 

The  walls  of  the  city  extend  round  the  broad  summit 

of  a  lower  hill,  and  are  carried  up  to  the  top  of  the 

^pur,  which  rises  about  six  hundred  feet  above  itj  where 

Hiey  join  the  acropolis,  which  is  surrounded  by  a  wall 

^ith  towers. 

The  walls  of  Pleuron  are  built  of  large  blocks  of 
limestone,  carefully  fitted  together,  though  irregular  m 
^ize  and  form.  The  interior  is  filled  with  rubble.  The 
town  walls  are  between  6  and  7  feet  in  thickness,  those 
*:if  the  acropolis  8  feet. 

Nearly  the  entire  circuit  of  the  city,  about  one  mile 
Snd  a  quarter,  is  preserved.     Though  in  parts  much 
*-uined,  the  walls  are  still,  in  some  places,  from  18  to 
20  feel  in  height.      In  the  steepest  parts  of  the  north- 
cast  wall,  leading  to  the  acropolis,  steps  are  built  to 
facilitate  the  ascent. 

Gatea. — There  are  six  gates  (not  including  the  en- 
traoces  to  the  Acropolis,  or  the  doors  in  Tower  3),  of 


1 


240 


NEW    PLEUBON. 


which  the  principal  was  at  the  south-west  angle  of  the 
city  (PI.  I.  A.  and  Pi.   IV.).      From  this  gate  the 
road  appears  to  have  passed  in  a  north-east  direction^ 
keeping,  at  first,  near  the  town  wall.    The  block  whiclk. 
formed  the  lintel  of  the  doorway  is  12  l^et  in  length. 
In  the  west  wall  is  an  arched  gate,  which  is  Inter- 
esting (PI.  I.  C.  and  PL  VI.).    It  is  not  unlikelj',  from 
the  form  of  some  blocks  lying  near,  that  the  ruined 
gate  (PI.  I.  D.)  in  the  north-west  wall  was  also  arched. 
Pleuron    is,  I   believe,  the  only  ^Etolian  city  where 
arched  gateways  have  been  found.     The  gate  in  the 
eats  wall  (PI.  I.  F.)  is  described  by  Dodwell,  '  Tour 
through  Greece,'  p.  96. 

Towers- — The  towers  have  generally  a  front  of  from 
16  to  20  feet, and  project  about  II  feet  from  the  wall; 
the  corner  blocks  are  carefully  cushioned.  The  steps 
leading  up  to  the  towers,  on  the  inside  of  the  wall,  are 
preserved  in  many  places,  Tower  3  (PI.  L  B.  and 
PI.  V.)  has  two  postern-gates,  perhaps  for  the  conve- 
nience of  the  halituts  of  the  theatre,  which  is  close  to  it. 
This  tower  has  two  loopholes,  The  towers  in  the  north- 
east wall,  leading  to  the  acropolis,  are  distinguished 
from  the  rest  by  being  divided  into  four  compartments 
by  cross  walls.  Tliirty-six  towers,  more  or  less  ruined, 
can  now  be  seen. 

Acropolis. — The  acropolis  is  in  very  bad  preserva- 
tion ;  but  little  more  than  the  foundations  of  the  walls 
and  towers  exist.  It  contains  no  remains  of  ancient 
buildings,  but  in  the  interior  of  a  ruined  chapel  is  a 
fragment  of  a  small  Doric  column,  I  foot  2  inches  iu 
diameter.     The  column  is  of  white  country-stone. 

Pofh. — The  ruins  of  the  city  itself  are  thickly  scat- 
tered over  the  uueven  summit  of  the  lower  hiil,  which 


NEW    PLEURON.  241 

M  rocky  and  now  covered  with  underwood.  The  foun- 
datioDs  of  Beveral  edifices,  carefully  built  of  large 
blocks  of  limestone,  may  be  met  with  in  various  parts 
of  the  city,  but  they  are  in  a  very  ruinous  condition. 

■dgora  and  adjacent  Buildings. — ^The  principal  block 
of  bnildings,  on  a  level  space  on  the  eastern  side  of 
*he  town  (PI.  I.  G.  and    PL  III.),   probably   repre- 
^Qts  the  Agora,  which  was  built  of  large  blocks  beau- 
^uUy  squared.     Before  its  western  front,  which  is  ut- 
terly ruined, many  rounded  and  squared  blocks, portions 
^f  vchitraves  and  pilasters  are  scattered.     It  would 
Seem  as  if  they  had  belonged  to  a  portico,  which  ex- 
tended the  whole  length  of  the  building.     A  few  paces 
to  the  south,  and  a  little  behind  the  Agora,  are  the 
foundations  of  a  square  building.      On   the  eastern 
front  is  a  tower,^  by  the  side  of  which  is  a  semicir- 
cular recess  (PI.  III.).    Opposite   the  Agora,  in  the 
same  group  of  buildings,  is  a  square  chamber  (25  feet 
by  20)  hollowed  out  of  the  rock,  but  built  round  with 
well-squared  blocks.     Six  steps  lead  down  to  the  in- 
terior.    The  walls  were  covered  with  a  cement,  com- 
posed, apparently,  of  lime  mixed  with  pounded  flint.  I 
think  this  was  probably  a  cistern. 

Great  Cistern,  etc. — The  great  cistern  (PI.  I.  H.  and 
1*1.  II.)  is  near  the  centre  of  the  town.     It  is  an  ex- 
cavation in  the  rock,  about  88  feet  in  length  by  69 
feet  in  breadth.     Across  the  excavation  four  walls  are 
"built  of  carefully-squared  blocks,  which  divide  it  into 
five  compartments.     .The  western  division  is  the  nar- 
rowest, and  was  covered  at  the  top  by  large  blocks. 
The  walls  have  triangular  openings  at  the  base,  and  are 
about  21  feet  in  height.     The  rock,  at  the  eastern  end, 

'  The  foundations  only  remain. 


242 


NEW    PLEUBON. 


is  cut  to  a  depth  of  about  50  feet.  On  tbe  north  side 
steps  roughly  cut  in  the  rock,  to  assist  the  descent  to 
the  interioi%  may  be  traced. 

Near  Tower  33,  in  the  soutli  wall  of  the  city 
(PI.  I.  h.),  is  a  small  excavation  about  13  feet  in 
length  and  10  feet  in  height.  The  walla  were  co- 
vered with  the  cement,  already  noticed  ia  the  cistern 
near  the  Agora,  and  the  top  was  covered  with  large 
slabs  in  which  circular  holes,  about  1  foot  -J  inches  in 
diameter,  were  cut.  In  one  corner,  about  9  feet  from 
the  ground,  is  a  round  earthenware  pipe,  which  leads 
at  the  top  of  the  work,  in  all  probability,  to  some  build- 
ing close  at  hand.  This  smaller  excavation,  I  am  in- 
clined to  think,  was  also  a  reservoir. 

Not  far  from  the  great  cistern,  though  I  could  not 
see  that  it  has  any  connection  with  it,  is  a.  low  passage, 
about  5  feet  under  ground,  covered  with  bricks  which 
are  well  made,  and  about  1  foot  4  inches  in  length, 
Tliis  passage  seems  like  a  ruined  watercourse,  but 
most  likely  it  belongs  to  a  later  period,  when  the  city 
Ti/as  in  the  hands  of  tbe  Romans,  It  must  have  taxed 
the  resources  of  the  inhabitants  to  supply  the  town 
with  water  on  this  rocky  hill. 

Theatre.— The  theatre  (PI.  I.  B.  and  PI.  V.).  which 
is  88  feet  in  diameter,  is  situate  close  to  the  west  wall. 
It  is  partially  excavated  in  the  hill  side,  and  partly 
supported  by  walls  composed  of  large  squared  blocks. 
Eight  rows  of  plain  seats  can  still  be  distinguished  in 
tbe  interior,  which  is  greatly  ruined  and  covered  with 
thick  underwood.  A  wall,  the  fouudations  of  which 
can  be  faintly  traced,  seems  to  have  separated  the 
stage  from  llie  town  wall. 

No  Inscnptiofts. — I  have  met  with  no  inscriptions  at 


NEW   PLEURON.  243 

WcBron,  neither  have  I  seen  traces  of  any  sculpture 

or  ornament  with  the  exception  of  the  mouldings  of 

'ie  architraves  before  the  west  front  of  the  Agora, 

'^bich  are  very  simple,  and  a  small  hlock  in  front  of 

^'ie  theatre  which  is  cut  in  low  relief  in  rough  re- 

^tnblance  of  a  thick  spear.     A  small  statue,  much 

•"^ilbed,  of  a  draped  female  figure,  without  a  head,  was 

'^\md  in  a  field  below  the  town,  and  is  now  at  Mis- 

*olonghi. 

Tombs. — In  the  plain  below  the  ruins  I  observed 

^ome  fragments   of  crocks,  resembling   those  noticed 

<*»ife,  p.  17,  and  some  small  vjises  have  been  found 

in  tombs,  on  the  hill-side,  which  were  built  of  four 

slabs  of  country-stone.' 

View  from  City. — The  view  from  the  city  is  very 
fine.  On  the  east  and  south-east  may  be  seen  the 
site  of  Calydon,  Mount  Varasova  (Chalcis),  the  plain 
and  town  of  Missolonghi,  and  in  the  distance  the  Gulf 
of  Patras,  bounded  by  the  mountains  of  the  Pelopon- 
nesus. On  the  west,  beneath  us,  we  see  the  Gulf 
and  town  of  Aitolico ;  and  further  on,  the  plain  of  the 
Achelous,  the  villages  of  Catochi  and  Neochori,  the 
site  of  CEniadje :  the  whole  bounded  by  Cephalonia  and 
Ithaca,  across  the  Ionian  Sea.  This  scene  bears  out 
the  description  of  Statius,  which  has  been  pointed  out 
to  me  by  a  friend-: 

"Si  patriis  Fartbaonis  arvis 

Inferar  et  reduci  pateat  mihi  Martia  Pleuron : 
Aurea  tunc  mediis  urbis  tibi  templa  dicabo 
Collibus,  lonias  qua  despectare  procellas 
Dulce  sit,  et  flavo  tollens  ubi  vertice  pontum 

'  On  the  hill  side,  below  Tower  33,  are  two  tombs  cut  in  the  rock 
(Sheet  2,  No.  10). 


£44 


NEW    PLEURON. 


Tnrbidus  objertas  Achelous  Echinadas  exit. 
Ilic  c^o  m^jorum  pug;uB3  vultiisque  tremcndos 
Magnaninmm  efRfigara  reg-um,  figamqae  superbia 
Arma  iholis,  quEcque  ipse  meo  quicsita  revexi 
Snit^uine,  qupeque  dnbis  captis,  Tritonia,  Thebis. 
Centum  ibi  virjfineis  valss  CnlydoDidea  aiis 
ActFPas  tibi  rite  fates,  et  ab  arboK  cast& 
NectCDt  purpureas  niveo  discrimiDe  vittas 
Pervigilemque  focia  ig-niim  luiigteva  sacerdos 
Nutriet,  Brcaouiu  iiuiiquain  iiispectura  padorem."' 

The  poet  alludes  to  Old  Pleuron,  but  was  probabli 
tliioking  of  the  position  of  the  Jater  city. 


GYFTO  CASTRO  and  PETRO  VOUNI. 

Situation. — The  ruins  at  Gyfto  Castro  and  Petro 
Vouni  are  situate  oa  two  low,  rounded^  and  very 
rocky  hills,  spurs  of  Mount  Zygos,  but  separated  from 
the  main  range  and  the  ruins  of  New  Pleiaroti,  below 
which  tliey  are,  by  a  narrow  strip  of  plain,  through 
which  flows  a  mountain  torrent.  Petro  Vouni  is  the 
southernmost  of  the  two  hills.  The  Lagoon  of  Mis- 
solonghi  is  distant  about  one  mile  and  three-quarters. 

Pre:ie}'vation. — The  ruins  on  these  hills  ai'e  in  the 
worst  preservation  ;  in  many  places  it  is  ditiicult  even 
to  trace  the  line  of  walls,  and  in  no  part  are  the  walls 
more  than  8  feet  in  height.  They  are  of  but  very 
little  interest  in  themselves,  beyond  marking  the  site 
of  a  city,  which  seems  anterior  to  New  Pleuron,  and 
which  Colonel  Leake  considers  to  have  been  Old  Pleu- 
ron (i;  "TraXaiii  IlXevpayv).      It  is  difficult  to  find  an  alto- 

'  StuliuB,  Th   ii.  726^1. 


QYPTO    CASTRO    AND    p£TRO    VOUNl. 


245 


gether  satisfactory  site  for  tbis  city,  the  great  rival  of 

Calydon. 

-Bnc«nie,  Gyfio  Castro. — The  wall  surrounding  Gyfto 
Castro  (PI.  VII.  L)  is  built  of  blocks  of  various  sizes, 
foughJy  placed  together  without  mortar.  The  founda- 
tions of  the  towers  on  the  south  side  are  more  regular 
ia  coustructiou.  The  wall  which  joins  the  enceinte 
on  the  south  side  was  built  of  large  blocks,  and.  I 
notice  iu  it  the  fouadations  of  two  round  towers.  The 
^'alls  have  been  rebuilt  and  added  to,  probably  at 
various  periods,  but  always,  I  tliink,  on  the  old  founda- 

Acropolis. — The  acropolis  is  in  a  very  ruinous  con- 
dition, and  it  is  very  difficult  to  give  any  idea  of  it. 
f^he  tower  at  the  east  end  was  built  of  small  blocks, 
''^gularly  squared,  as  was  likewise  the  square  building 
*^Q  the  west.  Between  the  acropolis  and  wall  on  the 
^'^uth,  are  the  remains  of  walls  and  buildings  of  rough 
couslniction. 

Petro   Vouni. — Tlie   wall   leading   up   the    eastern 
side  and  south  front  of  Petro  Votani,  at  the  west  end 
*^f  which  its  traces  are  lost,  was  formerly  joined  to  the 
Wail  of  Gyfto  Castro.     The  principal  gate  of  the  town 
*3.s    probably  on   the  level  ground  between  tlie  two 
hiils^   and    was    composed    of   large    blocks    roughly 
^flUared.      The  wallj  which  is  entirely  in  ruins,  ap- 
pears to  have  been  built  of  large  blocks  of  limestone 
and  was  probably  about  S  feet  in  width.     The  interior 
•"ubble  alone  remains,  in  many  instances,  to  mark  its 
"^urse;  and  I  cannot  help  thinking,  from  the  disap- 
pearance of  such    large  blocks,    that  they  were  em- 
p'Oyed  in  the  construction  of  New  Pleuron. 

In  the  plain,  below  Petro  Vouni,  are  the  remains  of 


246  OYFTO   CASTRO    AND    FETBO    VOUNI. 

a  square  Hellenic  building,  now  below  the  surface  of 
the  ground.  The  comer  only,  which  is  built  of  large 
blocks  of  white  stone,  has  been  uncovered  to  obtain 
stone  for  the  steeple  of  the  parish  church  of  Mis- 
solonghi.  In  this  building  a  few  small  silver  coins 
were  found  among  them ;  one,  I  think,  of  Argos,  one 
of  Sicyon,  and  another  of  iEtolia ;  but  I  write  from 
recollection. 

The  plans,  which  accompany  this  description,  only 
profess  to  be  the  merest  sketches.  They  are  as  accu- 
rate as  I  could  make  them,  with  the  aid  of  my  guide 
and  a  fifty-feet  measure.  The  sketches  I  will  not  apo- 
logize for.  I  only  hope  they  will  give  some  faint  idea 
of  what  they  are  intended  to  represent. 

MiBBoloDghi,  1861. 


'^^:^^'^^ 


■r:-:'|i: 


'I- 


i  /'/■. 

% 


r 


'//  '  TiTUi  fCUfIB  in  A  fl£U!  D£i.an  rH£  CITY 


■^OUM/        I      eta  M4.Mt/WC 

•ijj's frem piauA  f.Gjr/Oi  CantrB.  arui^c^ mUi 


■^>^.. 


.5V*^^#ft>^,, 


'j^^.-,;' --a!^':-  '^^-'^^ifr^-^^^f^' '' 


t 


Cirunt.!'.! 


Sttn 


Wall 


tVaii 


-"^^      ~  ,r       ^*?'^   ^,'N^  o^aJ    ^jimtffirf^. 

^7. 


l^'-.^'"|/Vj^^ 


%DJAC£NT   S&/LB/»GS  ■ 


iO.FL/.) 


^/' 


•^nsT     sAreiVitK^ 


T^yny 


T  CJi /:f>ii  wtik  thifi  ^^fiti^ritiM^      *, 


THEATf^E     '. 


n 


«j//.  ■■' 


'f/r. 


■*''*'_  '':^  SA^^^y (  ^-  ^i--^-) 


—71-  i.-  -I     I i. ._  [    m 


i. 


247 


X.— ON  THE  SUPPOSED  SCRIPTURAL  NAMES  OF  BAAL- 
BEC,  OR  THE  SYRIAN  HELIOPOLIS ;  AND  ON  THE 
CHIEF  HELIOPOLITAN  INSCRIPTIONS,  TEMPLES,  DEI- 
TIES, AND  SUN-WORSHIP. 

BT   JOBN    HOOQ,   H.A.,    F.R.S.,  HON.    VOB.    SBC.    R.B.L.,    BTa 

(Read  November  25tb.  1857,  and  May  7th,  1862.) 

It  is  remarkable  that  so  few  ancient  inscriptions  have 
been  preserved  amongst  the  extensive  and  splendid 
remains  of  Baalbec,  the  Syrian  Heliopolis,  or  "  City  of 
the  Sun ;"  and  that  the  principal  of  those  which  have 
been  there  discovered  are  imperfect,  and  have  been 
incorrectly  copied  by  most  travellers.  After  endea- 
vouring to  determine  the  original  Biblical  names  of 
that  city,  I  purpose  to  restore,  as  far  as  I  am  able,  the 
chief  Greek  and  Roman  inscriptions  ;  to  illustrate  them 
by  a  brief  examination  of  the  records  of  ancient  au- 
thors ;  and  to  notice  the  three  extremely  beautiful 
but  decayed  temples,  the  principal  deities,  and  the 
worship  of  the  Sun  as  prevailed  in  that  city. 

First.  Many  writers  have  considered  Baalbec  to  be 
identical  with  Baalath,  rhv^.,  or  Bahalath,^  mentioned 

'  la  using  the  word  Bahalath  in  this  memoir,  I  have  done  so  with 
reference  to  it  as  given  in  the  Latin,  above  the  Hebrew,  word  for 
word,  in  Bryan  Walton's  '  Biblia  Sacra  Polyglotta,'  edit.  Lond.  1 657. 
He  there  renders  our  Baalath,  Bahalaths  Baal,  Bahal;  and  Baal-gad, 

VOL.  vn.  s 


248  ON   THE   SUPPOSED 

in  1  Kings  ix.  18,  the  BoKaO  of  the  Septuag^nt,  vhidi 
"  Solomon  built,"  but  which  is  written  BaXacu  in 
2  Chron.  viii.  6,  in  the  Alexandrine,  or  BaXaaB*  in 
the  Vatican  version  of  the  Septuagint ;  although  in  boUi 
verses  of  the  Hebrew  text  the  word  is  the  same.  And 
this,  at  first  sight,  seems  highly  probable,  since  it  is 
coupled  with  "Tadmor  in  the  wilderness,"  Bep/tada 
•r§  ^pt^  (I  Kings  ix.  18),  or  OeS/w/i  (2 Chron.  viii.  4), 
in  the  Alexandrine,  but  Bo^/iop  in  the  Vatican,  text; 
which  now  all  recognize  as  indisputably  corresponding 
with  JIoKfiipa  of  Josephus  (Antiq.  Jud.  lib.  viii.  csp. 
6,  sect.  1),  and  at  this  day  with  the  "  City  of  Palnu," 
Palmyra  "  in  the  desert "  of  Syria.  Also  a  Baa^h 
is  enumerated  among  the  cities  of  Dan,  in  Joshua  xix. 
44,  which  some  interpreters  have  supposed  to  be  tbe 
same  city  as  that  Baalath  which  was  built  by  Solomon, 
being  confirmed  in  their  supposition  by  the  state- 
ment of  Josephus,'  that  the  Baalath,  or  Baleth,  whiti 
Solomon  founded,  was  not  far  from  Gezer,  or  Gasara, 

Bahal-gad.  And  in  the  same  Bible,  the  Latin  vereion  of  Pir^di- 
Chald.  renders  Baalath  by  Baghalatk,  and  Baal  by  Boffhab,  Abo 
the  French  Bible  translates  these  words  Bahalath  and  Baial.  An^ 
throughout  my  paper  I  have  added  many  original  Hebrew  wordi>  ■■ 
well  as  traosJatioDS  of  them,  where  they  are  found  to  vary  from  tboic 
inserted  in  our  common  Bible. 

^  But  in  Mai's  edition  of  the  Vatican  Codex,  the  word  hef*  •* 
BoXoa,  and  in  v.  4,  Tadmor  is  written  ®ocSo/wf>.  Vide  Edit.  RoD^^ 
1857.     So  Josephus  calls  the  last  @aSa/uY>,  Antiq.  Jad.  viii.  6,  !■ 

'  In  a  former  paper  which  I  read  before  the  Geographical  Se*?' 
tion  of  the  Britieh  Association  at  Dublin,  relying  altogether  o** 
Josephus,  I  maintained  that  Baalbec  could  not  answer  to  the  Bnki^ 
of  Scripture.  See  Report  of  the  Brit.  Association,  1858,  p.  14*- 
But  a  later  and  more  careful  comparison  of  that  author  with  the 
Biblical  accounts,  as  given  in  the  text,  has  now  convioced  me  ot  lus 
mistake. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES   OF    BAALB8C.  249 

in  the  south-west  of  Palestine.  On  reference  to  the 
*  Antiquities  of  the  Jews,'  I  find  the  original  passage 

IS  this :  Ov  iroppw  Vavrr\s  aiKKas  oaKoBd/iija-e  Bvo  troKeta. 
■^VfTxfopa  T^  eripq,  ovo/jm  ^,  ^  Se  erepa  BaK€$  eicdKetTO.* 
•*  Not  far  from  this  (Gezer),  Solomon  built  two  cities; 
JBetchora  was  the  name  of  one,  but  the  other  was  called 
JBaleth.''  To  this  last  city,  which  our  English  version 
terms  Baalath,  but  Josephus  Baletk  {BaxiS),  the  He- 
brew Bible  has  assigned  the  same  word  rhy^,  as  well 
as  to  the  Baalath  in  1  Kings  ix.  18,  and  in  2  Chron. 
Tiii.  6.  And  it  is  worthy  of  notice  that  the  Latin  Vul- 
gate renders  that  word,  Baalath,  in  1  Kings  ix.  18,  but 
-Balaath  in  Joshua  xix.  44. 

Yet  the  Vatican  Septuagint  translates  the  Baalath  of 
Dan,  Geheelan,  reffe^Xav :  the  Alexandrine  Codex  ren- 
ders it  Baathoth,  Beui£a9,  giving  also  Baakav,  Baalon, 
in  the  margin ;  and  the  Aldine  edition  has  BooSmB, 
Baaloth  (see  Joshua  xix.  44) :  whereas,  as  I  have  be- 
fore pointed  out,  the  Greek  names  for  the  Baalath  in 
1  Kings  and  2  Chronicles  are,  Balath,  Ba\^0,  Balaaih, 
BaXaad,  Balaas,  BcCKaas,  and  Balaa,  BaTioa. 

It  may  then  be  asked,  do  the  several  names  of  Baha- 
lath,  Baalath,  Balath,  Balaath,  Balaas,  Balaa,  Gebeelan, 
Baathoth,  Baalon,  Baaloth,  and  Baleth,  refer  to  one  and 
the  same  city  ? 

To  this  I  answer  that  they  assuredly  do  not ;  and  I 
have  formed  this  opinion  for  the  following  reasons  : — 
In  the  18th  verse  of  1  Kings  ix.  it  is  expressly 
written  that  Solomon  built  "Baalath  and  Tadmor  in 
the  wilderness ;"  these  two  cities  are  coupled  in  the 
same  verse  as  being  somewhat  in  the  same  district  in 
the  north  of  Syria,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  writer 

*  Joseph.  Antiq.  Jud.  lib.  viii.  cap.  6,  sect.  1. 

32 


250 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


had  previously  associated  "  Gezer  and  Betlihoron  tlie 
nether,''  both  of  which  were  in  the  territory  of  Dan,  m 
South-weatern  Palestitie,  and  not  far  apart  from  each 
other.  So,  in  chap.  viii.  2  ChronicJes,  verse  4^  says, 
Solomon  "built  Tadmor  in  the  wilderness^  and  all  the 
store  cities,  which  he  built  in  Hamaih  ;*^  that  is  to  say, 
in  the  district  or  kingdom  of  Ilamath, — the  Au\atK\i 
or  HamathiH  (1  iMaccab,  xii,  25).  in  the  north  of  Syria, 
and  not  so  very  far  from  Tadmor  in  the  Syrian  de- 
sert. Then  verse  6  states,  that  "  he  built  the  two  Brlh- 
horons,"  which  were  approximate,  and  in  the  landof 
Dan;  and  lastly,  verse  6  associates  "  Baa  lath  with  all 
the  store  cities,"  which  seems  equivalent  to  the  pre- 
vious account  in  verse  IS,  1  Kings  ix.»  wherein  "  Baal- 
atb  and  Tadmor"  are  distinctly  coupled. 

Again,  as  to  the  Baalath  mentioned  by  Joshua,  jh 
44,  as  being  part  of  the  inheritance  of  the  children  of 
Dan,  i.e.  in  the  south-west  of  Palestine ;  as  it  is  not 
stated  to  have  been  rebuilt  by  Solomon, — and  especially 
since  the  Greek  translators  have  assigned  to  it  these 
different  names,  Gebeelan,  Baathoth,  Baalon^  and  Baal- 
oth, — I  am  satisfied  that  it  was  a  city  perfectly  diatind 
from  the  Baalath  which  is  associated  with  "  Tadino 
in  the  wilderness,"  or  with  "all  the  store  cities  v 
Hamath,^'  and  which  most  probably  answers  to  Ba 
bee  in  the  district  of,  or  between,  the  two  Lebanon 
Moreover,  this  Baalath  of  Joshua  was  in  existea 
about  four  hundred  and  thirty  years  before  the  p 
riod  in  which  Solomon  is  related  to  have  huilt^  I 
Tadmor,  his  Baalath,^  and  his  Hamath  store-cities. 

*  Slserif  EMin  etates  that  Bftalliec  was  Tiuilt  by  Solomon  :  Hirt. 
Timur  Beg  (Tamertane),  trad,  par  P^lia  de  la  Croix,  \iv.  v,  chap.  ^' 
and  the  &ame  is  orally  handed  down  to  tbts  da;  by  the  Arab  naliv* 


I 

I 


I 

t 


Josephus  appears  to  have  been  the  chief  cause  of  the 
confusion  respecting  these  to  Bawaiaths,  which  seems 
to  have  arisen  in  this  manner.    He  read  in  I  Kings  ix. 

1  7,  IS,  that  "  Solomon  built  (or  rather  rebuilt)  Gezer, 
and    Bethlioroii    the    nether^   and    Baalaik"  and    in 

2  Chron.  viii.  5j  6,  "  he  buiit  Belhhoron  the  upper, 
and  BethhoroQ  the  cether. . .  .and  Baalatk,"  forget- 
ting that  that  Baalath  in  Dan's  territory,  which  he 
terms  Batclh,  existed  long  before,  even  in  the  time  of 
Joshua,  and  that  it  is  not  &aid  that  Solomon  hg,d  only 
rebuilt  it,  like  Gezer:  he  wrote,  that  Solomon  "  built 
not  far  from  Gezer  two  other  cities,  one  Belclwra," — 
intended,  I  concludCj  for  Bethoron,  or  Bethhoron — "and 
the  other,  Baleth." 

Having  thus  disposed  otBaleth  in  Dan's  territory,  the 
building  of  which  the  Jewish  historian  incorrectly  at- 
tributes to  King  Solomon,  be  then  proceeds  to  mention 
the  store  or  pleasure  cities,  though  not  as  being  "  in 
Hamath,"  and  the  building  by  Solomon  of  Thadamor,^ 
or  Palmira,  in  the  wilderness ;  but  he  omits  all  notice 
of  the  other  Baalatk — now  Baal  bee— actually  con- 
Blructed  by  Solomon,  not  far  distant  from  tlie  kingdom 
of  Haiuath,'  in,  or  under,  Antilebanon,  and  founded 

See, likewise,  Edrisi'saccount^  about  a,d.  1 150  ;  Geogr.,  edit.  Jaubert, 
v«l.  I.  p.  3£3. 

'  The  word  ©uSa/iop  is  written  cither  Tliadoior  or  Tadnior.  The 
Latin  word    from    the    Syriad  is  Tbadmur;    but  from  the  Arabic, 

'  "The  kifigtlom  of  Hamalh  included  the  whole  valley  of  the 
"'"onte^j  from  the  source  of  that  river  (now  El  A^^)  to  near  Antioch, 
*>lli  the  great  plain  CBstward.  It  bordered  Damascue  on  the 
"••Utli,  Zobab  on  the  ewt  and  north,  and  Phoetiicia  on  the  west." — 
"Tter'a  '  Handbook  for  Syria,'  vol.  ii.  p.  621.  ^tassn.,  OY Hemeaa, 
"^^^  Hims.  or  Huttia,  withia  the  territory  of  Hamalh,  was  a  very  an- 


252 


OK   TH£    SUPPOSED 


contemporaneously,  about  b.c,  1014,  with  the  splendid, 
and  neighbouring  Tadmor,  in  the  great  eastern  desert^ 
above  or   beyond   Syria,  in   the  ancieut   country  o^ 
Zobah. 

In  like  manner  I  find  that  another  Jewish   authoi 
Benjamin  of  Tudela,  makes  a  mistake  in  asserting  tha^  -J 
Solomon  had  built  Baalath  for  bis  wife,  the  daughter:  ^ 
of  Pharaoh.     He  writes  in  his  '  Itinerary,'  about  a.d 
1160,  that  "this  {Ba-albec)  is  the  city  which  is  men- 
tioned in  Scripture  as  Baalath  in  the  valley  of  Leba 
noa,  which  Sh'Iomo  (Solomon)  built  for  the  daughtc::- 
of  Pharao  ;'"*  whereas,  the  city  so  built  by  Solomon  ws 
Oeser  (1   Kings  ix.  16,  17)  and  not  Baatath.     Antm::^ 
moreover.  Scripture  does  not  assert  that  this  Baalatt 
was  "  in  the  valley  of  Lebanon,"   or  Bukaa  ;    but  i' 
would  seem  to  be  so  inferred  from  the  words  "  in  Le 
banoii,"  in  verse  6  of  2  Chron.  viii. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  the  name  of  a  city  ven 
nearly  resembling  Bdibec  occurs  in  the  Vatican  Code: 
of  the  Septuagiut,  in  Joshua  xix,  8  ;  it  is  there  writte^K 
BaxU,  Bake.  But,  as  it  is  stated  to  have  been  a  cit  ^ 
of  the  inheritance  of  Simeon,  and  consequently  in  tt^—B 
extreme  south-west  of  Canaan,  it  cannot  be  referred  tn^o 
Baalbec  in  Antilebanon.  In  Hebrew  it  is  '^Nl  r'Vyr — ^- 
Bahalath  Beer  ;'■'  or,  as  our  version  has  rendered 
"  Baalath- beer/'  meaning  the  well,  1W3,  of  Baalath. 


dent  city,  most  probably  one  of  Solomon's  siare^ties ;  it,  like 
bee,  was  &  chief  sftnetuary  o!  the  warship  of  Baal,  or  the  San-Girr;:*** 
About  710  B.C.,  in  the  time  of  Hezekiah  and  SisDnacherib,  it 
aaked,  "  Where  are  the  goiit  of  Hainalh  f"  (2  Kiuga  iviii.  34.) 

"  Ben.  of  Tudela'e  Itinerary,  by  Ashcr,  vol.  i,  p.  Sfi  ;  B&rba,  IS-^^^^*^ 

'  The  Versio  Lalinu,  Paraph.  Chald.,  writes  here  Bat/helath  onC^-    v' 

and  places  the  Beer  at  the  beginning  of  the  other  word,  Zirif7--Ilamat — ^^j 


SCBIFTURAL    MAMCS    OP    BAALBEC. 


253 


It  is  sic2:ular,  that  for  the  word  Bene-herak,  p"\1  ''33, 
Joshua  xix.  45,  meaning  '  children  of  Berak,'  which 
Latin  Vulgate  writes  '^  Bane  et  Barach"  and  the 
Vatican  Codex,  Bafae^oKUT,  but  the  Alexandrine,  Boi^r- 
ffapax.  the  Strriac  text  and  its  Latin  version  should 
have  translated  "  Baaldehech,"  which  is  so  similar  to 
Baatbeck.  The  translator  perhaps  had  Baalbec  in  hig 
■inind,  though  it  cannot  correspond  with  it,  as  Bene- 
■1>erak  was  a  possession  of  the  children  of  Dan. 

Some  might  also  conjecture  that  Bcndah,  BaaXd^  or 
BaXii^  mentioned  in  Joshua  xv.  29,  or,  as  it  is  called 
Pfe  the  Hebrew  text,  rh^l,  might  be  inteoded  for 
Baalbec ;  but,  since  this  was  a  city  belonging  to  the 
tribe  of  Judah,  it  was  situated  much  too  far  in  the 
south  of  the  land  of  Canaan.  It  should  be  observed 
that  this  word  BuuUih  is  easily  mistaken  for  Baalaih, 
owing  to  the  resemblance  between  the  final  letters  n,  A, 
and  Pi,  th. 

Others  consider  Baalbec  to  be  the  Baal-Hamon}'^ 
{BeeXafiiav)  of  the  'Song  of  Solomon'  (vili.  U),  from 
the  Supposed  similarity  of  that  appellation  to  that  of 
Jupiter-Hommon,  the  great  deity  of  Baalbec. 

It  does  not,  however,  appear  from  the  context,  where 
Solomon's  "  vineyard  at  BaaUHamon"  in  Hebrew 
pr^n  hv^,  was  situated  ;  though  it  is  likely  that  it  was 
adjoining  to  "the  house  of  the  forest  of  Lebanon" 
^1  Kings  vii.  2),  doubtless  so  called  from  its  having 
l)een  constructed  bv  Solomon  with  the  timber  of  the 


but  the  VolgBte  Latin  Tnakes  one  word  of  the  three.  Bealath-Beer- 
Bamath.  The  Arabic  Latin  version  reada  Baai-bab.  i.e.  BaELl'a  Gate, 
in  the  same  verse. 

'"  See  note  25.  p.  IS.forlkcD's  erroneouB  opimoDoa  to  the  identity 
hof  Baal-Htamm  aod  BaaJgad. 


ON   TBE    SUPPOSED 


cedars  hewn  in  the  forest  of  Lebanon/^  it  was  in  all 
probability  in  the  vicinity  of  his  capital,  Jerusalem; 
and  so  thought  the  learned  Bishop  Patrick^  for  he  ob- 
serves Baui-Hamon  was  "a  place  near  Jerusalem," 

Another Se\a/iMr  {Vat.)  or  EaXa^iLv  {Alex.)  neverthe- 
less is  named  in  Judith  viii.  3,  which  is  represented  ia 
our  version  by  "  Baiarao/'  and  not  by  Bdl-hamon .  it  i 
thouglit  to  have  been  not  very  far  north  of  Samaria, 
and  it  may  possibly  indicate  the  site  of  "Solomon' 
vineyard." 

Ajjain,  some  other  authors  have  identified  Baalb 
with  Banl-kermon  (1  Chron.  v.  23),  which  is  written  i 
Hebrew  ptJ*in  75?1,  but,  on  referring  to  Judges  iii.  3 
this  locaUty  is  described  as  in,  hor,  a  "  mount,*''^  no 
a   mere   city,   in   "Mount   Lebanon."     Although   i 
1  Chron.  v.  23,  "Baal-hermon  and  Senir,  and  MouQt;i=^ 
Hermon"  Ql?2*in),  are  mentioned  separately  as  three-— ^ 
distinct   localities,  still   in   Deuteronomy  iii.  9,  it   is^^ 
clearly  explained  that  "Mount  Hermon"  was  cal!ed_^^ 
by  the  Amorites  "Shenir,"  or  Senir.^"    Thus  indeet 

^'  Vide  1  KiDg^  T.  6— to,  for  the  agreement  betweea  Solomon  anc 
Miram,  king  of  Tyre,  relative  to  the  hewing  of  cedaj-tree*  in  Leba- 
non ;  &Dd  also  Josepbua,  Antiq.  hb.  viii.  cap.  2,  for  tbe  epistles  OIW^^^  '"' 
this  subject.  Calmet  observes,  that  the  cedar-wood  of  Lebanotm:^*' *" 
us.ed  in  Sulomon'?  Temple  naa  so  abundant  that  the  temple  itself  iE 
calJed  "  LebanoD,"  in  2echturiah.  chap.  xi.  verse  I. 

'^  Tliis  Tnountain,  in  that  verse  of  the  Vatican  Septui^int,  is  callef:*' 
TO  opos  TO  'AtpfLuiv,  but  in  tbe  Alexandnne  Codex  (vide  Grabe,  vo].  i.Jt  — 
TO  apoq  TO  Baaktpfiuiv.   This.  I&st  adds  in  the  margin.  BoXacp^'ii'.   Ths 
Hebrew  (in  Judges  iii.  3)  is  pQlH   '^Vl  in,   kor   Baal-Herman, 
"Mount  Baal- Hermon." 

•^  In  Deut,  iii.  9,  Mount  Hermon  is  particularlr  described  as  thaW^^" 
Herropn  which  the  Sidonians  call  Suion,  and  the  Amoritea  Shenir^  ~^ 
in  Hebrew,  these  names  are  p^lT^  and  1^3^?.  The  Vaticaii  Greek**-  ^ 
text  gives  them  us  ^eui/p  oud  Saclp,  whiUt  the  Compluteuaian  Ccxle) 


iCRJITURAtTNlMES   01?   PAALBEC. 


it  would  seem  that  at  that  time,  b.c.  1451,  only 
Baid-hermon  and  Mount  Herman  were  held  to  be 
really  distinct;  but  Baal-hermon  was  a  "mount;" 
hence,  then,  Baal-hermon  and  Hermoa  are  not 
strictly  considered  in  Scripture  as  the  same  peaks 
or  mounts. 

I  must,  however,  remark,  that  from  our  English 
translation  of  verse  23,  ch.  v.  of  1  Chronicles,  it  does 
not  appear  that  these  two  Hermans  were  in  the  Leba- 
non district ;  but  the  Vatican  and  Alexandrine  versions 
both  insert  the  words  koL  tv  r^  Ai^avta.  I  here  add  a 
literal  translation  of  this  entire  verse,  according  to  the 
Alexandrine  text:  'And  the  halves  of  the  tribe  of 
Aianasseh  dwelt  in  the  land  from  Bashan  unto  Baal- 
hermon,  and  Seneir,  and  Mount  Herman;  and  they 
increased  in  Lebanon.'  Moreover  the  text  of  the  Vati- 
can Septuagiot  omits  ev  yi),  "  in  the  land.''  This  de- 
scription, then,  better  accords  with   that  in  verse  3, 

writes  the  Jifft,  Soptup,  And  the  AlcTondrine  the  second,  'Savtip.  Al»a 
in  Ps«loi  HPX.  6,  the  former  is  termed  Sirion,  n^"ltt^.  The  LXX, 
have  trsnaliited  "the  Phsniciaoa"  oJ  ^oCyuai,  instead  of  "  the  Sido- 
aiajiE,"  whicli  ie  more  correct,  as  the  Hehrew  is  D'^3T'3,  Tsidopiin  or 
ZidoDJm. 

Bui  ilermon  is  also  coevally  ffl.c.  1451)  named  in  our  version, 
Deut.  iv.  48,  "Mount  Sisn;"  which  in  Hebrew  is  IM^ttJ,  and  ac- 
cording to  tbe  Sqtluagiat,  Zijui'.  Since  the  true  Sion,  &t  JerusBlem^ 
ia  written  iii  Hchrew,  Tl'^2,  Zion  or  Sijan,  in  Greek,  iiaii/  (vide 
Fsalm  ii.  6;  busiv.  2;  lixvL.  2),  our  Eciglieli  word  "  Sion"  in  Detit. 
It.  48,  is  clearly  erroneous,  aod,  as  Bishop  Patriclt  has  well  auggested, 
miwt  be  intended  for  Sirion ;  i.p,  IIW^U?  for  IVTll?.  The  meanings  of 
iheae  names  are 'eaid  tobeasiollowe:  Hermon  is  a  'hi^h  peak;'  Sirion 
and  Shenir,  b  'breast-plate,'  or  'armgur,'  of  anow  and  Ice;  Sion,  or 
Zion,  'uplifted,'  or  'esalted;'  ftnd  Lebanon,  'white,'  froro  Lefian, 
nhicb  sigfitfies  la  Arabic  '  curd^'  or  '  curdled  milk;'  and  in  Hebrew, 
from  ll?,  while. 


256  ON   TH£    BUPP08ED 

chap.  iii.  Judges,  which  mentions  the  locahty  as  being 
TOP  Aifiavov,  and  in  Hebrew,  Hor  ha  Lebanon,  paiTTT  TH, 
"  Mountain,  the  Lebanon." 

If  Mount  Hermon  be  received  as  the  highest  peak, 
and  as  thus  giving  its  name  to  the  entire  circuit  of  the 
southern  and  loftiest  range  of  Antilibanus — a  name 
which  very  seldom  occurs  in  our  Bible,'* — and  Mount 
Baai-hermon  be  taken  as  a  particular  but  lower  summit 
or  peak  of  that  same  mass,  all  difficulty,  will,  I  think, 
cease.  And  that  such  was  in  fact  the  case  will  ap- 
pear to  be  strongly  conclusive  from  verse  3  ^°  of  chap, 
iii.  of  Judges  in  the  Alexandrine  and  Vatican  interpre* 
tations  of  the  LXX.  The  first  of  these  reads  asv  rov 
oftovs  rov  BaaKepfiau  &a^  Aofianj/uiB,  which  indeed  our 
translation  follows,  whilst  the  second,  or  the  Vatican 

Codex,    has    avo  tov    opovs  TOv    Aepfjuov  etas  AetfiatefJuiB'. 

consequently  it  would  appear,  that  Mount  Baal-her- 
mon  and  Mount  Hermon,  although  not  identical, 
were  at  least  close  together ;  or  the  one  a  mere  peak 
of  the  other.  And  this  view  is  further  confirmed  by 
the  following  recent  account. 

My  kind  correspondent,  the  Rev.  J.  L.  Porter,  de- 
scribes'^ the  loftiest  peak  of  "  the  graceful  cone-shaped 

^*  In  Judith  i.  7,  both  "Libanus  "  and  "AntilibanuB"  are  given  ;  so 
also  in  the  LXX.  translation  ;  but  in  the  Latin  Vulgate,  only  "  Liba- 
nus." The  name  of  Antilibanus  first  occurs  in  the  Septuagint,  in 
Deat.  i.  7  ;  and  see  note  24,  injra,  p.  14.  Both  the  Libanua  and  An- 
tilibanus mountains  are  expressly  mentioned  in  the  Pbcenician  history 
of  Sanchoniathon ;  vide  p.  24,  edit.  Cumberland  (1720).  This  very 
ancient  author  is  supposed  to  have  written  in  the  eleventh  or  twelfth 
century  before  Christ ;  some  think  even  earlier. 

'*  The  Hebrew  text  in  this  verse  reads  "  from  Mount  Btail-hermon 
to"  etc.    (See  ante,  note  12.  p.  8.) 

'^  *  Five  Years  in  Damascui;,'  vol.  i.  p.  292  et  acq. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMSS    OF    BAALBEC. 


257 


I 
I 


I 


Ilermon,'*  to  be  '*  on  the  northern  side ;"  and  another, 
or  the  central  one,  a  little  to  the  south  of  it,  as  some- 
what differing  in  altitnde.  "  On  the  second  of  these 
Bummits"  he  discovered,  on  Au^st  31,  1852,  some 
very  curious  and  extensive  remains,  not  only  the  foun- 
dations of  a  ringy  or  a  circular  wall  of  stone  about  180 
I'eet  in  diameter,  with  an  excavation  8  feet  in  depth  in 
its  centre,  but  also  within  that  enclosure,  the  eub- 
structioDs  of  a  small  temple.  This  summit  he  con- 
siders "  as  one  of  the  most  ancient  sanctuaries  in  the 
Holy  Land  ;"  and  adds,  "  In  two  passages  of  Scripture, 
the  name  Bnal-hermon  is  applied  to  this  mountain," 
The  only  reason  which  can  be  assigned  for  this  is, 
that  Baal  was  there  worshipped,  and  that  a  sanctuary 
of  his  was  there  erected.  Hieronymus,  in  the  '  Ono- 
masticoD,'  makes  the  following  statement,  wliich  leaves 
the  matter  without  a  shadow  of  doubt :  *  Diciturque 

B  esse  m  verticn  ejug  (sc.  Aermon]  inst^ne  templum,  quod 
ab  Ethnicis  cultni  habetur  e  regione  Faneadis  et  Li- 
bani.'^^  It  can  scarcely  be  called  in  question  that  the 
temple  here  referred  to  is  that  whose  ruins  we  have 

B^jescribed.     Its  situation,  on  the  summit,  in  vertice,*^ 

Ba^s  sufficiently  explicit." 

It  is,  therefore,  very  evident  that  Btwl-hermon  can- 
Hot  have  been  the  original  name  of  Baaibec,  as  given 
in  the  Hebrew  Bible. 

I      Many  travellers   have   maintained  with  great  cer- 
^  "  Judg.  iii,  3.  and  1  Chron.  v.  23." 
19  "  OoomasticoD  Urbiura  et  Loc.  Sac.  Scrip,,  ed.  Bonfr.  p.  10." 
19  'Ev  Tois  vjjr/fkoii,  or  the  vifnjka  tov  BaaX,  "  the  higli  pl&ces  o£ 
Saal ;"  and   the  Eiltar^  iitid  temples  on  mountains  and  topA  nf  hi]ls 
•vttre  peculiarlv  6tCed  for  humt  offerings  emd  incen&c  unto  that  god, 
**to  the  tun  end  to  the  moon,  and  to  the  planets,  and  to  all  the  host 
of  heaven."  (See  2  Kings  ssili.  5,  and  Jeremkh  xis.  5.) — [J.  //,] 


258 


ON    THK    aUFPOSED 


tainty  that  Baalgad,  Ta71D,  described  ia  the  Book  of 
Josiiua  (about  B.C.  1450),  answers  both  in  its  etymo- 
logy and  geographical  position  to  Baalbec.^'*  In  ex- 
amining the  fim  of  these  arguments,  or  that  which 
arises  i'roin  a  mere  similarity  of  names,  I  will  show- 
there  exists  much  coincidence ;  while,  on  the  con- 
trary, I  will  prove  that  the  second,  relative  to  the  lo- 
cality itself,  cannot  accord  with  the  geographical  de — 
tails  of  Baalgad  as  specially  assigned  to  it  in  HoI^~ 
Writ. 

First,  the  Hebrew,  h^'2,  Baal,  in  its  primary  signifi- 
cation means  master  or  lord ;  hence  also  the  deity  or- 
godt  byin,  ha  Baal,  is  translated  o  Bda\  in  the  Sep- 
tuagint  (Judges  ii.  13;  1  Kings  xvi.  31,  32,  etc.),  and. 
this  Baal,  being  the  principal  deity  of  the  Phoenicians 
and  Syrians,  was  considered  as  the  Sun  or  Jupiter  ;  in 
fact,  Sanchoniathon^'  observes  Iti  a  fragment  of  his 
history,  supposed  to  have  been  written  in  the  eleventh 
or  twelfth  century  b.c.  [if  not  before),  that  the  foriner 
people  held  the  Sun  to  be  the  sole  Lord  of  Heaven 
(ftovos  Oiipaifov  Kvptos) ,  caWmg  him  '  Beelsamen,'  which 
is  Jupiter,  or  "Zeus  of  the  Greeks."  Now  the  de- 
rivation of  Belsamen,  or  BaUnmen,  is  clearly  ]''tt'0  hyi, 
Bal  Shamen,  ovpavaiv  Oeoy,  Cmlorum  Deus,  God  of  the 
Heavens,  or  Lord  of  the  Heavens ;  and  the  identical 

^  See  post  (note  25,  p.  15)  irbere  the  learoed  Iken  considers 
Baalgad  to  be  tbe  same  as  Baalbec. 

^'  Vide  Stuichuniath'Diiis  liiat.  Fbccnicin^,  lib.  ix.  ex  edit.  Wagen- 
/e/rf  (Sremss.  1837),  where  he  {%oyypwux6tiiv)  says  at  page  12,  tw 
^HAiov,   TOVTOV    -fop    Stay  ivafj.i^av  f^ovov  Ovpoiou    Kvptov    BceXtn^ijt- 

and  which  Dr.  Cimilierlaiid  hat  thus  rendered  ; — -"  The  .Swn  ;  for  him 
they  thought  ihc  oii!y  Lord  of  Heaven,  caliling  him  Beekamen,  which 
in  PhcEnician  ie '  Lord  of  Heaven,'  in  Greek  it  \&  Ztvs  "  (p.  24). 


SCRIPrnRAL    NAMKS    OF    BAALBIC. 


259 


I 


word  is  found  in  the  Phoenician  or  rather  Punic  lines 
in  the  '  Poenulus,'  of  Plautus  (Act  v.  seen.  2,  ver.  67). 
Also,  gad,  ^3,  signifies  a  deity,  for  the  Septuagint 
bas  translated  that  word  in  Isaiah  \xv.  11,  as  SaifjAviov, 
therefore  Baalgad,  1371?!,  or  BaXayaS,  so  interpreted 
would  be  the  Baal  deittf,  or  (/od  Baal,  and  which  would 
further  signify  the  Sun  deitrj,  or  ^od  Jupiier,  since 
Baal  was  considered  not  only  the  same  as  Jupiter,  but 
also  as  the  Sun,  Helius ;    indeed  Bryan  Walton,   in 

*  Biblia  Sacra  Polyglotta,*  has  given  '^Jovi''  for  1J,  gad, 
in  the  verse  referred  to. 

•  Another  interpretation  of  Gad  is  preferred  by  otherSj 
who.  deriving  it  from  the  verb  *na.  to  press,  have  reti- 
dered  it  a  crowd,  or  troop;  and  it  is  so  translated  in 
that  verse  of  Isaiah  in  our  English  Bible.  Wherefore 
Baalgad  would  thus  mean  Baal-crowd,  or  Baal-city, 

or  the  8un-city,  which  in  Aramaic  or  Syriac,  is  Baal- 

6ec,^^  and  in  Greek  Heliopolw. 

Secondly,  as  to  the  geographical  position  of  Baal- 

la  chap.  xi.  verse  1  7,  of  the  Book  of  Joshua,  the 
entire  land  of  Israel,  or  the  country  conquered  and 
Yaken  by  Joshua,  is  described  as  extending  from  the 
land  of  Edom  on  the  south,  '*  even  unto  Baalgnd  in 
Xhe  valley  of  Lebanon,  under  Mount  Hermon"  on  the 
north. 

But  it  might  be  said  that  Hermony  from  that  de- 
ecription,  was  a  mount  in   Lebanon  proper,  that  is, 

*5  Bttal-bee,  or  Baat-bek,  means  tUe  "  city  of  Baal "  or  the  "  Sun." 
^'Beh,  or  Baki,  ia  still  used  for  'a  city'  in  the  Coptic  or  Modem 
£tjifptian  z"  Rawlin^on's  Hemd.  vol.  iv.  p*  245,  note  13-  Nfay 
Sot  this  Egyptian  lerrtiinal  word  have  been  introduced  in  the  tenth  or 
eleventh  century,  by  the  Eg'yptiaii  Caliphs,  who  governed  Baalbec? 


260 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


on  the  noTih-niefti  of  Palestine,  and  consequently  it 
could  not  be  identical  with  that  noble  mountain  at 
this  day  named  Gehel  e  Sheikh,'^  or  the  "  Mount  of  the 
Chief,"  which,  more  strictly  speaking,  is  situate  at  the 
southern  boundary  of  the  AntUibanus,  now  known  as 
the  range  called  Gebel  e'  Sharky,  or  the  '  Eastern 
Mouutain.'  This,  however,  in  the  tirst  verse  of  the  fol- 
lowing chapter  (xii.  1)  of  Joshua,  is  dearly  explained. 
For  Joshua  having  taken  the  cities  of  the  Amikim  in 
the  south-weBt  of  Palestine,  or  on  the  west  of  Jordan 
and  the  Dead  Sea,  then  describes  the  "  land  on  the 
other  side  of  Jordan  toward  the  rising  of  the  sun,  from 
the  river  Arnon  unto  Mount  Jlermon,  and  all  the  plain 
on  the  east."  These  words  prove  that  Mount  Her- 
mon  was  on  the  east  of  the  Jordan,  or  rather  of  (he 
sources  of  the  Upper  Jordan,  and  consequently  placed 
at  the  north-eoA-t  limit  of  the  "whole  land  taken  by 
Joshua."    The  appellation  of  Antilibaniuii'^*  occurring, 

**  In  1B50  I  stated  that  in  writing  those  Arabic  tiames  in  Engliah 

wliich  have  the  artitle  ei  before  anv  word  beginning  wilh  a  solar  lit- 
ter, as  £!nh  Slieifch,  Et  Tcim,  etc.,  I  nbbreviated  them  thus:— £' 
Sheikh,  B'  Teim.  etc.;  but  id  pronounciDg-  them,  a  double  force  mnet 
be  given  to  the  solar  letters.  See  ootes,  p.  ^^i,  Edio.  N'ew  PhiL 
JournaJ,'  vol.  xlviii.  1S50,  and  p.  3-17,  vol.  "v,  Trana,  itqy,  Soc.  Lit, 
'^*  Moses,  being  on  the  east  of  the  Jordan,  m  the  land  of  Moah 
(Dcut,  sxiLW.  1),  praya  the  Lord,  to  let  him  go  over  (the  Jordan)  and 
Bce  the  good  land  that  ia  bei/and  Jordan,  that  goodlv  tuountain  (the 
Lehanoa) ;  and  the  AntUebanon.  Such  ia.  the  meaning  of  the  Septna- 
gint  iDterpretatioin  of  verae  25,  Ueut.  iii. ;  our  Bible  merely  addj, 
that  ■"  goodly  momitainj  an-d  Lebanon,"  which,  if  correct,  shouM  be 
that  "  gaocily  mountain,  even  Lebsinon,''  which  was  beyonii,  or  to  tbe 
west  of  Jordan  ;  whilst  Moant  Herroon  and  Anlilehanon  were  on  IKU 
nde,  or  the  eaat  of  Jordan.  Tbe  original  Hebrew  in  Deut.  ilL  25,  it 
13i7m,  which  the  LXX,  have  traaekted,  xei  tov  'AvTt\il3awv,  hut 
the  Latin  Vulgate  reads  "  et  Libacum."  The  'AtniXi^avo^  also  occurs 


SCRIPTURAL    NAM£3   Ot    BAALBEC. 


261 


I  believe,  only  once  in  our  Bible  (Judith  i.  7),  shows 
that  that  eastern  range  (Gebel  e'  Sharky)  was  con- 
sidered as  a  portion  of  Lebanon  itself;  so,  indeed, 
there  can  be  no  error  in  the  identificatioa  of  Mount 
HernioQ  with  the  modern  Gehel  e'  Sheikh. 

Again,  in  the  I3th  chapter  of  Joshua,  the  borders 
of  the  land  then  unconqueredt  or  unpossessed  by  Jo- 
Bhua,  are  set  forth,  and  among  which  is  the  portion 
described  in  verse  5  as  "all  LebaDon  toward  the 
Bunrising  from  BmUjad  under  Mount  Hermon,  unto 
the  entering  into  Hamath ;"  that  is  to  say,  all  the  dis- 
trict of  Lebanon,  and  Antilebanon  on  the  east,  from 
Baalgad  under  Mount  Hermon  as  far  as  tlie  entrance 
into  Hamath  on  the  north. 

Jt  appears,  however,  that  the  same  region  in  chap, 
iii.  of  Judges,  verse  3,  is  thus  detailed,  tiamely, 
"  in  Mount  Lebanon,  from  Mount  Baal-kermon  unto 
the  entering  in  of  Hamath."  Hence,  Baal-gad  and 
Baal'liervion  are  stated  to  have  been^  according  to  the 
interpretation  of  some,  identical :  this,  indeed,  could 
not  be  so,  because  the  former,  being  nowhere  termed 
Mount  Baalgad,  was  evidently  a  city  ;^^  Baal-herraon, 
on  the  contrary,  is  generally  called  a  mountain;  yet 

in  the  LXX-  ia  Deut.  i.  "7;  si.  24;  Joshua  i.  4;  is,  1  ;  and  in 
Judith  i.  7. 

^  Iken  wrote  a  leELracd  dissertation  on  Baalgad,  and  Baal  HainoQ 
which  is  published  in  vol.  i,  p.  236,  etc.  of  Dissert.  PhiJoIog.-Theol., 
Lugd.  Bat.  !74E>.  I  have  not  had  an  oppiortunity  of  reading  it  with 
attention,  but  he  aeeme  to  consider  JIaaLgad  and  Baal  liaDaun  o&idsn- 
tieai  with  the  modern  Baalbec.  He  aays  "  aatiquisaLiaam  urbem 
Ba&lgad,  eandem  cum  hodieroft  Bulhek  esse  .  .  .  Baal  Ilamoa  quo- 
que,  cujua  semel  tantum  (Caot.  viii.  LI]  lit  mentio,  ab  efidem  mi- 
nime  esse  divereain"  (*.  ix.  p.  245).  With  this vie-w, however,  lean 
by  aQ  means  agree. 


262 


ON   THB    91JFP0SBD 


these  two  passages  are  easily  reconcileable  if  we  con- 
sider them  to  be  (as  they  really  must  have  been)  ad- 
jaceat  to,  or  at  least  not  far  distant  from,  one  an- 
other ;  that  is,  the  city  of  Baalgad  was  placed  in  a 
valley  of  Lebanon  under  Mount  Baal-kermon  in  tlie 
Mount  Herman  range- 
la  fact,  the  last,  we  know,  was  a  mountain  of  much 
extent,  at  least  comprising  a  mountain  district ;  for  iu 
Joshua  xii.  5,  Og,  the  king  of  Bashan,  is  mentioned 
as  "  reigning  in  Mount  Herman,"  and  which  Tre- 
melUus  and  Junius^  have  thus  rendered  into  Latin, 
"  Conterminus  Hog  Rex  Baschania  .  .  .  dominabatur- 
que  in  Monte  Chermonis."^^  Also,  "ail  Mount 
Hermon"  is  spoken  of  in  Joshua  xiii.  11,  and  with 
this  corresponds  very  exactly  at  the  present  day  that 
glorious  and  imposing  mass  of  mountain-elevation  of 
about  10,000  feet  in  altitude,  with  its  three  snow- 
capped peaks,  the  base  of  which  includes  an  area  of 
great  extent,  some  45  or  55  miles  in  circumference, 
known  by  the  Arabic  name  of  Gebel  e'  Sheikh.^^ 

Further,  if  we  more  correctly  examine  these  two 
parallel  passages,  it  wilt  be  seen  that  in  the  first 
(Joshua  xiii.  5}  "  Mount  Hermon"  occurs,  but  in  the 
second  (Judges  iii.  3)  "Mount  Baal  Hermon"  is 
given;  consequently,  this  appears  to  confirm  the  view 
which  I  have  taken,  that  Baal  Hermon  was  a  portion 


28  Vuie  '  Biblia  Sacra,'  p.  1 70,  edit.  Amsl.  !G69.  And  the  French 
Bible  also.  \a  that  passage  and  ia  Deut.  ill.,  writes,  "  Ho^,  le  Uoi  de 

Bason." 

-^  Joshua  xii,  5,  The  Vulpate  here  tranelateB  "Terminus  Og  regis 
BaS'aD,  .  .  .  et  domirLatUB  eet  in.  maate  Hermon." 

^  The  traveller  Russegger  gives  the  greateat  height  of  Gebe! 
E'Sheikh  as  9,S0Q  Parii  feet,  or  about  10,000  Eug-Ush  feet. 


or  a  peak^^  of  the  larger  mountain- mass,  or  rfinge  of 
Hermon.  And  this  is  further  corroborated  by  the 
difTereace  existing  between  the  Alexandrine  and  Vati- 
can texts,  as  I  have  already  pointed  out,  because  in 
the  last-cited  passage  the  former  specifies  the  limits 
of  the  country  as  extending  "  from  the  mountain 
BaaUhermon  unto  Lobohemath,"  whilst  the  Vatican 
states  them  to  be  "from  the  mountain  Hermon  unto 
Labohemath." 

Since  then,  Baalgad  is  expressly  declared  in  Joshua 
xi.  17,  and  xiii.  5,  to  have  been  situated  under  Mount 
Hermon,  the  position  of  Daalbec  i&  much  too  distant 
in  the  north  to  be  accounted,  in  any  possible  terms,  as 
lying  under  that  mountain  {Gebal  e'  Sheikh),  or  under 
the  distinct  peak,  Bafd-hermon. 

Also,  in  the  last-cited  verse  of  Joshua,  the  precise 
expression,  "rtW  Lebanon,"  most  clearly  defines  that 
the  entire  region  of  Lebanon  and  Antilebanon^"  is 
signified,  and  not  the  remainder  or  rest  of  Lebanon, 
being   indeed  less  tbaa  one-half  of  "alj  Lebanon/' 

»   Vide  ante,  p.  10. 

•"  The  whole  moiin tain-re^ on  of  Lebanoo  is  erroneously  translated 
"  Mount  Hor,"  in  the  7th  aind  8th  verses  of  Numbers,  chap,  xxxiv., 
Ob  tbe  north  harder  of  the  land  oi  Canaao.  Thi&  name  naturally  mis- 
leads the  reader,  and  makes  him  suppose  it  to  be  Mount  Hor  in  the 
territory  of  Edom.  Hor,  171.  signifies  a  mtmatfii/i.  The  uriginal  is 
"^p^V^■l^^  i.  e.  ffar  ha-Hor,  "  motttitsin  the  mountain,"  or  "moimt- 
tidii  of  the  mountain,"  Tneaning  "  the  double  mountain,"  or  the  "  two 
Xnoimtains  r'  this  term  includes  the  Iwo  parallel  chains,  the  Lebanon 
and  the  AttikbaaoH.  Both  the  Vatican  and  Alesandriue  texts  pro- 
perly render  hor  Ha  hor  by  to2  &pi>vi  to  opos,  in  verse  8.  The  Latin 
A^'ulgate  translfttea  ihem  "  raons  altiBsimuB;"  the  Latin  version  of  the 
SamariTan  text,  "  mons  fior ;"  and  Tremelliua  axid  Jimiua  give  thern 
*'Hor  mons."     In  the  former,  Hor  Ib  undeclined,  hut  by  the  latter 


264 


ON   THE    SUPPOaSD 


which  it  would  have  so  limited,  if  Baalgad  had  stood 
on  the  present  site  of  Baalbec.  And  in  that  case, 
Joshua's  description  would  doubtless  have  been,  "  the 
rest  of  Lebanon,  towards  the  sun-rising,  from  Baalgad 
unto  the  entering  into  Hamath."  The  last-named  pass 
or  district,  being  some  thirty-five  miles  further  to  ibe 
north-east,  shall  be  afterwards  briefly  considered. 

I  must,  however,  enlarge  a  part  of  the  precediog 
reasoning  in  more  comprehensive  terms,  because  Dr. 
Robinson,  in  his  uew  work  on  Palestine,^'  writes,  in 
a  "  parallel  passage  (Joshua  xiii,  5,  comp.  Judges  iii. 
3),  we  find  Baal-hermon  instead  of  Baal-gad.  It  would 
eeem,  therefore,  that  Baat-gad  and  Baal-hermon  were 
diflerent  names  of  the  tsante  place  ;  that  this  place  was 
in  a  valley  under  llennon ;  and  that  it  here  served 
to  mark  the  northernmost  limit  of  Palestine,  to  which 
the  conquests  of  Joshua  extended;  just  as,  at  a  later 
period,  alter  the  city  of  Dan  had  been  built,  that 
place  is  always  put  as  the  northern  limit.  The  tiaroe 
Baal-gad  [god  of  fortune)  implies  a  place  of  heatheo 
worship  ;^^  which  apparently  took  also  the  name  of 
Baal-hermon  from  its  connection  with  that  mountain. 

"  All  these  considerations  go  to  make  it  probable, 
that  Baal-gad  was  no  other  than  the  romantic  spot, 
the  secluded  grotto  at  the  fountain  of  Jordan,  where 
the  Phoenicians  or  Syrians  had  established  the  wor- 
ship of  one  of  their  Baals.^^  In  process  of  time  this 
was  supplanted  by  the  service  of  tlie  Grecian  Pan, 

"  '  Later  Biblical  Researches  in  Palestine,'  p.  409. 

"  lianl-ffird,  '  god  of  forturie,'  is  referred  by  Gesenius  to  Jwpitrr, 
The&aur.  p.  264." 

"  "  So  Geaeniug,  Thesaur.  p.  225.     Raumsr,   PaJsat.  edit.  3,  p. 
215.  n." 


SCRIPTUKAL    NAMES    OF   BAALDEC. 


265 


and  thus  the  name  Panium  was  introduced,  and  the 

earlier  one  forgotten.     The  name  Banias  is  merely  tiae 
Arabic  pronunciation  of  the  ancient  name  Panens.'* 

The  jjMi  passage  here  referred  to  has  been  already 
mentioned  as  that  which  our  English  Bible  thus  ren^ 
ders  :  "All  Lebanon,  toward  the  sun-rising, /rom  Baa/- 
gad  under  Mount  Hermon  unto  the  entering  into 
Hamath."  The  same  is  translated  in  the  Vatican  Sep- 
luagiot  with  the  exception  of  the  two  words  '  from 
Galgal'  ("TTo  raXjiix)''*  being  substituted  for  'from 
Baal-gad  ;'  but  the  Alexandrine  version  agrees  with 
oar  English  translation  in  reading  (itto  BaaXyaZ. 

And  the  second  passage  (as  contained  in  Judges  iii. 
3),  from  our  Enghsh  rendering,  which  agrees  with  the 
Hebrew,  is  this  :   '*  Mount  Lebanon,  from  Mount  Baal* 
her^mon  unto  the  entering  in  of  llamath."     The  diffe- 
rence in  the  Septuagint  texts  has  been  already  pointed 
out,^  in  showing  that  the  one  reads  "  Mount  Hernion," 
and  the  other  "  Mount  BanUhermonJ"     Consequently, 
according  to  Dr.  Robinson's  view,  Baal-gad,  Galgal, 
ilernion,   and    Baal-herinon  are  "  different  names  of 
Ihe  same  place:"  but  their  identity  cannot  be  supported, 
because  to   Hermon  as  well  as  to  Baal-herinon  the 
term  wiounittin,  to  opos,  is  expressly  given,  and  BaaLgad 
aod  Galgal  [if  distinct  places)  not  being  so  designated 
were  evidently  cities,  and  probably  contiguous  to  each 
other.     Indeed,  1  have  before  shown  that  most  likely 
Baal-bermon  was  only  a  separate  peak  of  the  Mount 


•*  The  word  Galgaly  which  occura  in  the  Vatican  edition  of  the 
tiXX.,  ia  possibly  a  mere  error  of  ihe  copyists  in  wrillngr  and  A  for 
B  (md  A;  thus  TAAPAA  for  BAATAA.  The  only  known  Glfgais  or 
Gttigals,  ruAyoXa,  were  eituatedi  io  central  cind  foulh  Paleetine. 

**  See  ante.  p.  10.  and  rate  12,  p,  8. 


266 


ON   THE   SUPPOSED 


Hermon  rang:e.  Scripture  (as  I  have  previously  ob- 
served) sometimes  mentions  "all  Mount  Hermon,*'* 
therein  of  course  including  the  peak  of  Baal-hermon, 
and  the  entire  chain  or  mass  of  the  noble  Mouat 
Herraon.  For,  although  it  is  stated  in  Deut.  iii.  9, 
that  Hermon  was  calli^d  in  B.C.  1451,  by  the  Amorites 
'fifftenir,^' still  in  after^imes  (about  B.C.  1300  and  10141 
Senir,  or  Skenir,  seems  to  have  been  considered  as  a 
distinct  peak  or  summit  (see  1  Chron.  v.  23,  and  Son& 
of  Sol.  iv.  8),  So  then  Shenir,  Baal-hermon,  and  Her- 
mon may  have  been  subsequently  the  names  of  l\^^ 
three  separate  peaks  descrjhed  by  Mr.  Porter  in  t^W 
work  on  'Damascus'  (vol.  i.  p.  292),  and  this  seer«! 
most  probable,  because  the  "  mountaim  of  Hemior* 
{op^oiv  'A€p/j.<^p)  are  mentioned  in  Ecclesiastlcus  xxi^, 
13,  at  a  much  later  period,  viz.  about  B.C.  200.^ 

There  is,  however,  another  and  a  still  more  deci^i'^f 
answer  to  Dr.  Robinson's  supposition — that  Banl-t^ 
"was  no  other  than  the  secluded  grotto,"  Panijs'^ 
near  Paneas,  where  was  an  altar  or  shrine  SeoG  /lai^o^ 
originally  supposed  to  have  been  dedicated  to  B<r^^ 
most  likely  from  following  these  words  of  St.  JeroW"* 
*'  quod  ah  Ethnicis  cultui  habetur^  regione  Paneadis  '' 
— which  is  this:  the  situation  of  that  grotto  was  fart 
distant  to  the  south  of  Mount  Hermon,  to  be,  by  a«* 
construction,  included  in  a  vnUeif  or  plain  o(  Lebgm-* 

^  Vide  Joshua  xiii  .11. 
^^  Consult  the  previous  note  13   at  p.  8. 

38  Abulfeda  etates   ('TabiJa  Syria?/  p.  164),  that  the  Arabs 

■mtdieeval  times  teriiveti  tlie  aorthem  pan  of  Antilibanus  Simir,  wh  • 

it  evidently  a  corruption  of  Senir,  or  ^avip.     And  this  name  eec« 

"to  be  retained  at  lim  day  in  b  mare  corrupted  form,  Sannin  qt  Santr' 

for  the  highest  peak  of  the  opposite  rangie  of  Lebanon, 

^  Hieron.  Onomaat.  Urb.  p.  10. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALbEC. 


267 


I 

I 
I 

I 
I 


-cV  T^  ireBim  tou  AtSavou — in  which  Sciipturs,  as*"  I 
have  already  shown,  expressly  says  Bmil-gad  was  placed. 

But  the  eatne  AmerlcaD  author**  has  'vsitli  much 
more  probahility  conceived,  "  that  the  prophet  Amos 
(chap.  i.  V.  5)  alludes  to  Hehopolis  [Buulhec)  and  its 
idol-worship,  where  he  speaks  of  the  "  plain  of  Aven  " 
(or  Bikath  Aren  in  tlie  margin).  The  Seventy  appear 
to  have  so  understood  the  passage,  since  they  here  give 
the  Hebrew  Aven  hy  O/i,  the  domestic  name  of  the 
Egyptian  Heliopolis.*^  The  allusion  vvould  thtn  be  to 
the  great  plain  of  the  Bukaa,  or  Vceknynu,  of  which 
Heliopolia  was  always  the  chief  city  ;*'  and  this  ac- 
cords well  with  the  context." 

It  is,  however,  only  just  to  remark  that  this  "allu- 
sion" had  been  long  before  made  by  one  of  our  En- 
glish divines,  Dr.  William  Lowth,  as  well  as  by  the 
traveller  Maundrelh  The  former  says,  "Mr.  Maun- 
■drell,  in  his  Travels,  observes  that  not  far  from  Da- 
mascus there  is  a  plain,  still  called  the  'Valley  of  iJo- 
cat,*  which  he  supposes  the  same  with  '  Bikath  Aven,' 

*  Joshua  xii.  7.  Tbe  Alexandrine  Codex  here  haa  BaoXyaS,  and 
the  ordinary  Vatican  Codex  BnAA-yaS;  whereas  Mai'a  new  edition  of 
the  last  reada  BctXayaSSa,  ck  vtSitj>  A<^»^— '  Baingndiia  in  Leliapon 
plain,' — which  \a  less  agreeable  to  the  originiil. 
*1  RobiDSon'8  Later  Bibl.  Hcs.  in  Palest.,  p.  519, 
*•  "Sept.  Trt&'OT 'fH;',  Vulg,  campus  uhli.  The  Heb.  VHof  l^,  for 
HelJQpotis  in  Egypt,  occurs  »»  Gen,  xU.  43,50,  xlvi,  20,  and  Kzek. 
i!«.  17,  In  ail  these  example?  the  Seventy  and  Vulgate  give  it  by 
Heliopolia,  'HXtovjroXt*.  The  fnrnier  nowhere  have  *ilv,  except  in 
Anoe  i.  5."  [I  find  that  Treniellius  and  Junius  render  these  words, 
in  Latin,  "  convulhs  Acenis."  See  '  Bibllu  Sacra,'  p,  596,  edit.  AmBt. 

"  '*  The  Hebrew  ^i^p3  aid  Arabic  liitiaa  are  strictly  one  and  the 
lune  word,  Bigmiying  "a  deft  ur  plain  between  moimtaitta.'" 


268 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


here  mentioned  ";**  indeed,  T  rind  that  the  learned  Iken 
writes  that  Zorn  considered  "  urbem  Balbek  apud 
Aniosum  i,  5,  per  Bikath  Aven  intelligi."**  Accord- 
ing to  Ritter,^  On,  or*I2v,  is  explained  to  be  an  Egyp- 
tian or  Coptic  name,  meaning;  the  light,  or  sun,  and 
is  exactly  tianslated  "  Heliopolis  "  by  the  Septuagiot, 
So  then  Bikath  Aven,^''  or  Aun,  or  On,  would  signify 
Bukna  On,  the  '  plain  of  On,'  or  the  plain  or  valley  of 
Heliopolis. 

In  finishing  this  Jirsl  part  of  my  memoir,  I  have 
only  to  remind  my  readers  that  I  have  arrived  at  the 
conclusion,  and  I  trust  have  also  proved,  that  the 
ancient  Biblical  names  of  Baalbec,  or  its  Greek  equi- 
valent  Heliopolk,  are  two,  namely,  the  earlier  and  ori- 
ginal one  the  Baalatk  recorded  in  I  Kings  (ix.  18)  and 
2  Chroii.  (viii.  6)  ;  and  the  second  or  later  name— On, 
or  Aoen,  |''t^  (which  is  the  word  assigned  in  Genesis 
x3i.  50,  to  the  Egyptian  Heliopolis),  mentioned  by  the 
prophet  Amoa  (i.  5)  in  b.c.  787  ;  and  that  the  plain 
of  Baalbec  or  Heliopolis,  in  Coi'Iesyriaj  is  designated 
by  this  last  author  as  Bikath  Avcn,  |*'M  ni'p2,  or  Bi- 
kiitk  On,*^  or  simply  as  the  Blkah  or  Bukaa,  which 

"  D'Oyly  »tid  Mant's  '  Holy  Bible,'  vgl,  i.  part  2.  note  5.     Amoa 

\.  5. 

■**  Ikcn's  ■  Dissert,  de  BaBl-Haroon  ct  BaaUgad.'  b,  xvn.  p.  257» 

*'  Erdkundc,  vol.  i.  p.  822. 

^  Tlie  French  or  PariB  edition,  IfiOS.  of  'La  Kaiate  Bible,'  trans- 
lutes  these  words  "  Jiikfiul  Avea,"  but  the  edition  of  1743,  by  D. 
Mwrtip,  biis  "iJilAa^ft-aven." 

*•  Some  traveller  in  Syria  has  reported  a  "plain  of  Uh,"  Bome- 
where  in  the  district  a(  DttinHscus^  on  the  side  of  the  Great  Desert, 
from  the  mere  aftirniative  unswer  of  hie  Arab  guide  n  hen  af  ked  about 
such  a  Epot;  but,  from  later  and  more  eiact  inquiry,  no  such  place 
has  been  ditcovered.     Indeed  the  'ward  BSkah  does  uot  isEgnifT  au 


SCRL1.>TI;RAL    names   of   AAALbEC, 


269 


is  identical  with  what  Maundrell  terms  the  "  Bocat'* 

and  what  the  Crusaders  call  (a.d,  1176)  "the  valley 

I  will  now  make  a  few  observations  on  the  two  fol- 
lowing and  important  questions  in  the  early  topo- 
graphy oi'  this  district :  ^>*/,  the  position  of  Baal-gad  ; 
and  secondly,  the  entrance  into  llamatU. 

The  first  of  these,  or  the  supposed  site  of  Baal-gad,  has 
been  in  some  degree  determined  from  the  texts  of  Scrip- 
ture already  cited.  It  was  known  to  be  situate  in  a  valley 
of  Lebanon   under   Mount  Herman  or  under  Mount 
Baal-hermon.     Considering   the  last  of  these  mounts 
to  have  heen  the  second  or  central  summit  of  the  mag- 
nificent mountaia-range  of  the  Great  Hermon,  now 
called  Gebei  e   Sheikh,  we  must  look  for  some  vtdhy 
■  nearly  under  that  second  summit,  and  to  the  west  of  it, 
mf*  in  Lebanon,"  wherein  that  city  might  have  stood. 
^T'or  this  purpose  I  will  take  Dr.   Robinson's  *  New 
JMap  of  Palestine'  (by  Henry  Kiepert,  1850),  and  ex- 
amining the  west  side  of  Gebel  e'  Sheikh,  the  modern 
own  of  Hasbeyn  will  be  seen  in  the  valley  of  Lebanon, 
ow  named  Wadi  e'  Tetwi,  and  distant  some  seven  or 
ight  nii[es  to  the  west  of,  and  below,  the  spot  marked 
usf  Antar^^'*  upon  the  summit  of  that  second  peak 


pliun  or  d&sert,  but  9-  wide  mouDt&iD- valley,  or  plain  enclosed 

sin  Igfty  ranges- 

*  RobiDson,  '  Loter  Researehes  in  Palestine,'  p.  496. 

"  This  is  the  name  given,  in  Robinson's  ntw  map,  to  the  niins  on 

^he  second  peak  of  Gebcl  e'  Sheikh  ;  but  the  author  himaelf,  who  did 

xttJt  ascend  to  them,  calls  Lhem  "  Kiilut  Ant&r."  at  p.  4^2  of  his  '  Later 

tJieseaiches."  Mr.  Porter,  however,  ii»  his  work  on  Umiuoscus,  vol.  i. 
p.  293,  does  not  assign  to  them  any  appellation.  There  exiHte.  iil^io  a 
great  difference  between  tlie  position  of  this  mined  temple  in  Dr. 
Kobiown's  and  Mr.  Porter's  tOiipB. 


of  Gebel  e'  Sheikh,  which  Mr.  Porter  identifies  with 
Mount  Baal-hennoTiy  whose  summit  is  situate  in  the 
parallel  of  about  north  latitude  33°  25',  whiht  the 
latitude  of  the  town  itself  is  33°  25'  12"  nearly. 

Dr.  Robinson  describes  Hasbeya,  "as  almost  hidden 
in  a  short  valley,  which  commences  at  no  great  dis- 
tance east  of  the  town"  (p.  380).  And  hereabouts 
might  be  fixed  the  ancient  site  of  Baal-gad :  at  le;ist,  I 
apprehend  that  spot  to  have  corresponded  with  the 
extreme  limit,  on  the  norlh,  of  Joshua's  conquered 
country.  It  is,  however,  not  unlikely  that  Baal-gad 
may  have  stood  in  a  valley  somewhat  further  to  the 
south,  perhaps  in  the  larger  valley  now  called  Wndi 
Shiba^  *'  which  breaks  down  by  an  enormous  gorge 
through  the  western  rid^e  of  Gebel  e'  Sheikh,"^'  and 
which  opens  ont^  in  a  south-westerly  direction,  into 
the  upper  Wadi  e  Ttim.  Indeed  the  present  village 
of  Hibburr/eh  may  possibly  iodicale  the  site  of  the  jrtin- 
cili/  under  the  mn-moant,  Baal-hermon,  and,  if  so,  its 
north  latitude  will  be  about  33°  24'  47*.  This  Ame- 
rican traveller  says,  "The  only  point  of  interest  in  this 
village,  apart  from  its  remarkable  position,  is  the  beau- 
tiful ruin  of  an  ancient  temple,  now  standing  in  a 
ploughed  field.  It  fronts  directly  upon  the  great  chasra 
looking  up  the  mighty  gorge,  as  if  to  catch  the  first 
beams  of  the  morning  sun  rising  over  Hermort.""  And 
in  confirmation  of  this  being  nearly  the  probable  site 
of  Baal-gad,  the  name  seems  to  have  been  corruptedly 
preserved  in  a  neij:hbouring  vjUage,  about  five  miles 
further  to  the  north-west,  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Wadt  e'  Teim.     The  present  name  of  that  place   is 


'}  Robbaon,  p.  416. 


"  litid.  p.  147. 


SCBIFTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


271 


I 


I 


Belaid  which  may  be  an  Arabic  corruption  of  Belgat 
or  Belgad,  for  Balgad, 

There  can  in  fact  be  no  doubt,  that  In  this  district, 
on  the  west  of  Gehel  e'  Sheikh,  must  have  beea  situ- 
ate the  long-lost  Baal-gad  ;  if  not  in,  or  close  to,  one  of 
the  places  I  have  mentioned.     Neither  am  I  without 
hope  that  the  remains  of  that  city  may  at  a  future  day 
be  brought  to  Ught,  when  careful  researches  and  ex- 
cavations may  have  been  carried  on  in  this  beautiful 
portion  of  the  splendid  Hermon.     Dr,  Robinson,  writ- 
ing *' of  the   many   ancient  temples"  that   are   still 
'visible  in  the  valleys  between  the  Lebanons,  relates, 
•*  they  are  found  in  all  situations,  crowning  hills  and 
Tnountain-tops,  or  secluded  in  valleys  and  deep  gorges. 
The  founders  and  worsliippers  have  disappeared  for 
Tinknown  ages;  whether  they  vferePhfBmcians  or  Graico- 
Sjfrinm^  we  cannot  tell;  they  have  left  behind  no  trace 
but  these  their  works,  and  no  record  to  show  how  or 
"V^'hy  these  works  were  erected. "^^ 

Secondly,  as  to  *'  the  entrance  of  Hamath."  This 
'^as  not  only  the  name  of  a  most  ancient  city,  sUtl 
Itnown  as  Hamnh,  but  also,  as  was  a  common  custom 
in  Palestine,  that  of  a  territory  or  kingdom^  so  called 
from  the  city  itself,  "  the  land  of  Ilamath  "  (2  Kings 
^cxiii.  33),  Hamaikis  or  AiiiathLi,  of  which  "  the  king" 
is  occasionally  mentioned  in  Scripture.^ 

M  Robinson,  p.  4 1 R. 

**  Amos  (vi.  2)  epeaks  of  Hamatli  as  "The  Great:"  the  Vatioaii 
Septuagmt  renderi  it  'E/j(aTpajS/3ti,  and  the  Alexandrine  Ai';xa^pa^^di, 
iu   one  word.     The  Hebrew   is  PQI  jnCH,  Chamaih  rabbafi,    mean- 
ing 'Hamftth  the  Ciipital.'    Eabbah  is  derived  from  2T,  rab,  'grest.' 
or  ^2^,    rabbi,  'a   chief.'      (Set  2  Kin^B  ](ix.   I3-,   iBaiab  k.   8,  9; 
I  Maccab,  xH-  S5,  etc)     Hamath   or  Chamalk.  in  Hebrew  JlQn, 
^  translated  "by  the  Septuiigint  ^Hfiafi,  'EftoiS,  aad  A.lfujB,     It  waa 
h&med  afterward^  by  thcj  Cri^i:!'^  Epiphaiti^. 


I 


The  land  unconquered  by  Joshua  tVom  the  parallel 
ill  or  about  north  latitude  33"  23' — the  boundary 
already  dielined — comprised  *'  all  Lebanon,  from  Baal- 
hermon,"  or  "from  Baal-gad  under  Mount  Hermon" 
unto  a  still  more  northern  border ;  viz.  "  unto  the 
entering  in  of  Hainath,"^*  which  succeeded  to  the 
northernmost  limit  of  Lebanon,  probably  near  the 
parallel  of  north  latitude  34'^  25'.  Hereabouts,  or 
about  3'  further  norths  according  to  Dr.  Robioson's 
last  map,  is  the  modern  town  named  Kt6/c/r,  situate  on 
the  Orontes,  now  El  A^y,  and  which  is  evidently  iden- 
tical with  the  Scriptural  ''  Uihlah."  In  2  Kin;E;s  xxv. 
21,*'Riblah"=^  is  stated  to  be  "in  the  land  of  Ha- 
math/'  and  in  Numbers  xxxiv.  II,  it  is  mentioned 
as  "on  the  east  side  of  Ain."  The  Rev.  Mr.  Porter, 
who  has  recently  visited  that  region,  says,  "Ain, 
pi?,  is  the  Hebrew  word  for  a  fountain,  and  it  may 
therefore  be  read,  '  Riblah  on  the  east  side  of  the 
fountain ;'   and  thus  it  is  in  the    (Vatican)  Septua- 

gint,  BtfXa   airo  avaroKaiv  cttI  'myyus.     NoW  Riblah  Stands 

about  ten  miles  nearly  east  of  the  great  fountain  of  the 
Orontes;  I  am  therefore  inclined  to  think  that  the 
Ain,  referred  to  in  the  above  passage  as  being  on  the 
west  of  Riblah,  is  the  fountain'**^  called  Ain  el  Astf. 
I  should  however  observe,  that  in  this  verse  of  the 
Alexandrine   version,   the   proper  name  in  Hebrew, 

"  In  Ju(lg;ea  iii.  3,  "the  ciitering^  iti  of  Hamath  "  is  giveg  aa  a 
proper  name.  Lobohematk  or  Laboamuth,  in  the  Greet  versiong.  The 
Alexandrine  hais  Ao^(ji;^afl;  but  th«  Vatican  Codex  Aaj3iu*^«^.  The 
Hebrew  is  Jion  N137,  it"  two  words,  loba  Chamath. 

^  In  this  passag'e  RihJah  \i  trahfitated  'PffiXoBa,  Jd  the  Vatic&o 
verBiotij  bat  in  the  Alexandrine  it  is  it^Xii^ii,  This  confusion  se^ma 
to  have  nrisen  from  niiataking  d  for  r,  and  tit  for  h  tci  the  Hebrew. 

^  Porter's  '  Five  Years  ia  Damascus,'  vul.  u.  p.  33C. 


SChll'TURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


273 


rr7a"l,   which  our  Bible  has  translated  "  Riblah,"  ia 

not  BtjXk,  bat  'Ap^TjXa.^^     So  then,  the  entrance  into 

the  land  or  kingdom  of  Hamath,  as  one  journeys  to 

"the  north  from  Baal-gad  under  Mount  Harmon,  would 

I  lie  through  the  valleys  of  Lebanon  termed  at  this  day 

""AVadi  e'  Teini    and  EI  Bukaa^  past-  Ain  e!   Asy  and 

JCamua   el   Harmul,*^   into    the  district  near  Kihlah. 

_^nd  this  would  seem  to  be  the  route  which  "men" 

"^ho  "  come  to  Hanialh  *'  (Numb.  xiii.  '21) — but  which 

is   better  translated  in  the  Septuagint,  e\inTopivoii.4imv 

^Ifi^,^  "  as  men  proceed  into  Hamatli,"  from  the  south 

would  naturally  follow. 

It   is  unnecessary   for  me    in  thia  place  to    notice 


**  By  transppeing  (he  first  two  letters,  thia  word  would  become 
lemrer  to  Ribiah  ;  thus,  'Pa^i^Au  (or  *FL/3i).\a)  ;  and  h  TUftv  have  be^ti 
»o  named  from  being  most  likelv  another  seat  of  the  worshi|)ofBt|X, 
■£eel  or  Baa!,  The  last  Greek  word  mig^ht  be  also  written  in  En- 
^Itfb  Ribtialah.  Riblah  was  a  verir  ancient  city,  us  it  is  mentioiied 
I  c.  J452. 

*"  Dr.  RobirbBOii  says  ('Later  Reaearches,'  p.  540),  "This  ie  a 
ttiagular  and  perbapB  inexpitcnble  qlriieture."^  A  woqdcut  of  it  is 
^nven  in  Porter's  Dmnuscus,  vol.  ii.  p.  309.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Thomp- 
Soil  aska.  whether  Xebucbadiiezzar  might  not  have  erected  it  as  a 
KneiDoriBl  of  bis  conquests?  (TiV*  Btbl.  Sacr.,  J/oy,  lS-17,  p.  405.) 
ISince  this  square  edifice  bears,  on  its  four  sides,  bus-reliefs  ofbonrB, 
4tmg9,  and  other  aDiiiial'S,  with  weapons  of  the  cha^e,  if  a  sepulchral 
taioniiment,  it  may  have  been  erected  to  some  personage  killed  in  a 
famous  chaee.  Or  it  may,  more  likely,  have  been  raised  by  aome 
I*er«iaa  prmce  to  record  some  hunting  exploits  performed  in  a  fa- 
'■Vourite  park,  or  Paradise.  Such  a  presen'e  Xe^ophon  {Ctfrop.  lib. 
Viii.  B.  7)  'explains  thus,  ra  iv  rot^  na/mSturois  ^fiia  rpt^fteva. 
Indeed  Stmbo  expressly  mentions  a  Paradisus,  as  being  near  the 
fountains  of  the  Oronle*,  and  consequently  also  near  the  Harmui 
monaraient.  {Geop^.  lib.  xvi.  cap,  2.) 

^  But  Mai  incorrectly  b^  given  'E^tid  in  this  passage  of  his  edi- 
tion :  ^  being  clearly  ao  error  for  (l. 


274 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


"  tho  entrance  of  Hamath  "  from  the  Mediterranean, 
or  the  "Great  Sea/'  as  tins  is  well  examined  by  Mr. 
Porter,  in  the  account  he  has  given  of  "  the  northera 
border  of  the  land  of  Israel,'""  and  also  by  Dr.  Ro- 
binson in  his  new  researches  in  tlie  same  country/' 

In  the  Second  Part  of  my  memoir,  I  proceed  to  con- 
sider the  principal  inscriptions^  which  have  been  dis- 
covered in  Baa!bec. 

It  is  very  surprising  that  among  such  magnificent 
and  numerous  buildings  as  are  still  extant  in  that 
ruined  but  spacious  city,  so  few  inscriptions  have  been 
detected,  and  of  those  which  now  remain  only  three 
or  four  are  worthy  of  any  comment. 

Buckh,  in  his  great  work,  'Corpus  Inscriptionum 
Gnecarum,'  vol.  iii.  p.  240,  has  only  pubHslied  a  single 
one,  No.  4523 ;  it  is  copied  from  Pococke»  and  is  as 
follows  :- — 

No.  I— eVrATHPZHNOAnPnAYZTAXOYKAIAYO 
ZYIOIXM  . .  .  rXAPHANEOHKEN 

which  Btickh  incorrectly  interprets  thus  : — 

.   ,   .  duyaTijp  Z-y^voSaypa  Aiia{tiJ.)ayov  ko*  Av  ,  .  . 
vloti  }i.{i'r}fftj)i  X^pU")  o.v^OrqKev. 

But  Herr  Kraffl  has  more  recently  given  the  fol- 
lowiag  better  copy  of  the  same'**  in  his  work,  *To- 

81   '  FIi*e  Yeara  in  Damaacus,*  vol.  ii.  p,  354  et  ttf. 

*°  I^ler  Bibl.  Resear.  in  Paleat.,  p.  568. 

^  M.  deSaulcy  (p.  560-t>  makes  a  pHrade  of  "discovering  this 
inscription"  at  Baalbec,  in  March,  1851  ;  wliercas  the  same  had 
been  previously  published.  No.  29.  by  Krafit  in  1S46,  and  wbo&e 
wurk  he  admila  to  have  consulted,  since  he  bas  transcribed  auolber 
inscription  "from  his  publicatioti "  [p.  231).  But  M.  de  Saulc^  is 
again  in  error,  as  he  Btates  that  "this  monurucnt  wa»  erected  to 
Zenodonis  and  Lyeaniuei  sons  uf  Ii^sanias  the  Tctrarch.''    The^^f^ 


SCRIPTUEAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


275 


pograpliie  Jerusalems/  which,  he  says,  was  found  on 
the  pediment  of  a  temple  at  Baaibec, — "  tindet  sich 
auf  einem  Fragment  einei  Terapelgiebels  zu  Baalbeck  '* 
(p.  268).  The  letters  are,  as  Pococke  noticed,  square 
in  form  : 

lYrATHPZHNQ^LUpLijAYC    ETPAPXqYKAIAYC 
YIDICM  UJCXAPil       TANEgHKEN 

This  I  consider  in  small  characters  to  mean — 

,  ,  .  QvjaTrip  ZjivoBtapoi  Av4?^(aPiov  rjerpap^ov  km  Avo{avi^) 
_  .  .  viots  jp,{yT}(r£)o}f  ^aptv  (to  tepov)  aved7}Kev, 

and  in  English, — 

.  ,  .  (a)  dfiug-hterjtoZenodorus  (the  son)  ofLy6(aniasthet)ttrarch 
and  to  LyB(aiiiaB) 

.  .  .  (her)  goiiB,  ha&  dedicated  [the  temple),  for  the  eake  of  a  re- 
memlinince. 

This  inscription,  as  it  will  appear  from  this  last  and 
more  accurate  transcript,  is  of  much  interest,  since 
it  expressly  state*  that  this  Zeiiodorus  (the  son  of  the 
unknown  mother,  daughter,  and  dedicatress)  was  the 
son  of  the  Tetrarch  Lysanias.  This  may  have  been 
the  Lysanias,  who  was  put  to  death  by  Antony,  tliroiigh 
the  designs  of  Cleopatra,  about  the  year  36  b.c.^  And 
Dion  Cassius  mentions  (lib.  xlix.  s.  3*2)  him  as  the 
king  (tetrarch)  of  the  Iturtcans.  And  the  Zenodorus, 
his  son  here  named,  is  probably   the  same   of  whom 

Josephus     writes,    ZTjvoSmpos,    6    tov  Avaavlov    fj.ifLia8ay- 

luifoB  oXkov^ — as  having  rented  the  bouse  or  teirarchy 

onlr  was  Ai>  son  ;  but  both  were  the  sons  of  his  wife,  the  dedicating 
"daughter."  See  De  Saiilcy's  'Narrative,'  vgU  ij,  p.  561  ;  2nd  edit. 
1854, 

**  See  Joseph.  Antiq.  Jud.  xv.  cap,  4.  s.  1* 

"*  Joseph.  De  Bell.  Jud.  lib.  i.  cap.  20.  b.  4  ;  and  Aatiq.  Jud.  lib. 
XT.  cai).  10.  8.  1-3. 


of  Lysanias,  his  father,  and  which  Augustus  took  from 
him,  00.  account  of  his  oppressive  robberies,'^  and  be- 
stowed it  upon  Herod.  Zenodorus  died  at  Antioch 
about  B.C.  20.  Also  Dion  Cassius  relates  that  Au- 
gustus gave  to  Herod  the  same  tetrarchy,  t^o  re  'Spath^ 
Z-TjuoBcDpov  Tivoi  rerpafi^iav.^^ 

It  seems  probable  that  this  tetrarch  Lysanias  was 
the  son  and  successor  of  Ptolemy  Menn^eus ;  for,  ac- 
cording to  Josephus  (Ant.  Jud,  xiv.  13.3)^  he  received 
his  father's  dominion  :  TeXeyra  5e  km  nroXf/ialos  6  Mai- 
vaioit,    Ktu   TJiv  ap^r]v   ovrou  q  irais  Avaavias  irapoKaQwv. 

This  Ptolemy  was  tetrarch  of  the  district  of  Gbalcis, 
the  Chalcidene  of  Pliny.  The  city  of  Ckalcia  was  situate 
in  Ccelesyria,  at  the  roots  of  Antilibanus,  about  twenty- 
three  miles  south  of  Baalbec.  Josephus  records  it 
as  being  vrro  t^  At^dv^  opet,  over  which  Ptolemy  {Suva- 
trrevfov)  ruled  ;  and  Stiabo  calls  it  oKpoiroXis  tov  Mapavov 


*  Strabo,  Geogr.  lib.  xvi.  cap.  2,  refers  to  the  robbers  under  -Ze- 
Hodoiits;  and  reUtea^  that  they  vrere  put  donti  by  the  Roidiui&,  and 
bv  the:  firmness  of  cbeir  soldiers. 

^^  Dion  Cas9.  Hiel.  Rom.  Uh.  54,  9.  fl,  b.c.  20,  when  M.  Apuleius 
and  P.  Siliua  were  cotisula.  Thia  was  Herod  "the  Great."  On  his 
death  (a,d.  1)  sfter  the  birth  cf  Christ  (Matt,  ii-  19),  he  devised  hi» 
territories  amongst  his  three  son».  Augustus  Cieaar  confirmtd  the 
diviftiun  thus;  to  the  6rst  »on,  Archekus  (Matt.  ii.  22],  was  given 
a  moiety  of  the  whole ;  but  to  Philip  and  to  Herod  Antipaa  ^Matt. 
xiv.  ],  and  Luke  iii.  1),  only  liEdf  the  ulher  moiety  to  each,  forming 
laa  tetrarcAies.  I'hilip  (Luke  iii.  1)  had  (with  other  dialricia)  part 
of  the  "  House  of  Zenodarvs." — qIkqv  toiJ  Ztfvohwpov  (Aatiq.  Jud.  xvii. 
11,  4) ;  hut  Josephus,  in  repeating  the  tatne  account,  in  Bell.  Jud.  ii. 
6.  3,  states  that  Philip  received  pnrt  of  the  "  House  of  Z€no"—nv 
Zt/vojiijs  (nKov,  Ilere,  tlien,  7.i}vaivoi  ia  clearly  an  error  for  Zrjvo&upov. 
The  two  lutter  sons  were  sliil  tetrarche  according  to  St.  Lake  (iii.  I) 
"  in  the  1  j/A  i/ear  of  Tiberius^"'  ^  a.d,  28,  and  not  a..d.  26  aa  given 
in  Mant's  Bible. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAME9    OF    BA.ALBEC. 


277 


— the  "  acropolis  of  the  plain  of  Massyas,''  or  Marsyas  ; 
this  plain  was  a  part  of  the  rich  plain  of  El  Bukna.  Mr. 
Porter  i<Ienti{ies  the  place  with  the  ruins  at  Anjarj 
near  it,  ou  the  hilt  nt  Mejdei,  are  the  remains  of  a 
massive  temple,  which  he  thinks  are  considerably  older 
than  those  at  Baalbec.  But  Pliny  clescrihes  the  city 
and  the  territory  thus^  "  CKalcidem  cognominatam  ad 
Return,  unde  regio  Chalcidene  fertilissima  Syrise."™ 
]iere  the  desig^nation,  "ad  Beluni,"  may  mean  at  a 
Jiil!  so  named  from  a  temple  of  Bel,  B^X,  or  Baal,  on 
its  summit;  or  from  the  great  eastern  branch  of  the 
Jjeoctes,  which  is  supplied  by  two  fountains  now  called 
Ji\a  Anjar  and  Shemsin-  In  a  country  wliere  Baal 
Avas  so  much  worshipped,  it  is  likely  tluit  a  river  or 
«  hill  may  have  been  termed  Belus,  or  B^Xos.  Pto- 
lemy Meniiaus  was  also  the  Governor  of  Heliopolls, 
of  the  province  of  ItnrEea,  and  of  the  mountaicB  north 
«if  the  laltcr.     He  died  in  the  year  40  b.c. 

That  other  Lymnias,  the  tetrarch'^^   of  Abilene,  of 

**  Joseph.  Antiq.  Jud.  liv,  7-  4;  Straho,  Geogr,  xvi.  cap.  2\. 
-J^orler't  "Damaecw*/  vol.  i.  p.  12;  and  Plin.  Nat.  Hist.  Ub.  v.  cap. 
S3.  ».  19. 

"^  See  '  Journal  of  Royal  Geographical  Society.'  vol.  xi,  p.  43,  for 
another  Greek  inscription  in  whicli  l/iis  tetrareh  is  mentioned.     It 
^afi  Iwen  sugg^peled,  for  awt\e,  to  read  'A^SAij  .  .  . ;  if  correct,  the 
^raa^Ialion  would  be. — "  Nymphieus  M  .  ,  .  (the  eo»)  of  Lysaiiias, 
the  tetra.rch  of  Abi!«[')if),'''  etc     Acd  here  I  may  also  correct  ano- 
ther error  of  Jos«'phus,  which  occurs  Id  Antiq.  Jiid.  xiv.  3,  2,  There 
it  is  written,  that  Pompev   had  destroyed  the  fortress  of  Aparaeia  ; 
*•  when  he  had  gone  through  the  cities  of  Heliopoiis  and  Chalcis,  and 
bad  psESpd  over  the  mountiiin  Beparttting-  Syria,  called  the  HaSlovr 
'cceie),  from  Pelfa  he  came  to  Dumaacus."     As  this  was  clearly  the 
ordinary  road  leading  from  Chalcis  over  the  Antilebanoa  Ihroug^h 
Abiia  to  DaniBscuB,  I  would  therefore  read  the  last  line  thns, — airo 
Trp  'A^tXtfi  «is  Aa/ina-Koi-  ^kcv.      IIEAAU£  miut    evidently  be    in. 


278 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


whom  St.  Luke  speaks  (iii.  1),  may  possibly  have 
been  Zenodorus's  half-brother,  the  second  Lysaman^ 
meDtioned  in  this  inscription,  for  tlie  year  recorded 
by  St.  Luke  is  '''^  \.\it  fifleenth  year  of  the  reign  of  TV- 
hmns  Cjesar,"  which  answers  to  a.d,  28  ;  if  so,  this 
inscription  could  not  have  been  erected  \yui\\after  that 
date. 

The  tetrarch  of  Abilene,  however,  raust  have  been, 
without  any  doubt,  a  descendant  of  the  same  tetrarchal 
family. 

Krafil  relates  that  this  inscription  was  from  a  frag- 
ment of  the  pediment  of  a  temple,  or  rather,  I  think, 
of  a  teinpU-Uh  tomb,  which  the  mother  doubtless 
erected  to  the  memory  of  her  two  sons,  one  being 
the  son  of  the  tetrarch  Lyssnias,  her  first  husband ; 
this  shows  evidently  that  they  were  a  family  of  great 
power  and  station  in  lieliopolis,  both  in  the  last  lialf 
of  the  century  before,  and  in  the  first  half  of  the  first 
century  afterj  our  Saviour's  birth. 

The  next  inscription,  though  in  a  mutilated  condi- 
tionj  was  copied   by  M.  de  Saulcy,  in  1851,  from  an 
inverted  tablet  fixed  into  a  wall  at  Baalbec : 
No  l!.^€PrONTOY€NA€ 

,  . .  T  . ,  NATOAIOI 
CTPATONOMAPXOY 
KAIYHATOY 

This  traveller  says,  "  I  think  I  can  make  out  from 

tended  for  ABIAHS:  HEA  being:  tnialaken  for  ABI.  Although, 
according  to  Stra-bo  (Geo^r.  xvl.  2),  Ihechy^  of  Apanieia  (now  KaUt 
el  Mudikj  on  the  Orontea  "  was  Sometimes  cnlled  bv  the  earlv  Mace- 
donians Pella," — ttidXtitei  SJ  kdi  tlcXAa  itori  LTlxi  laiV  jrptaniiy  MmcfSuVtiW, 

— still,  Eis  JoBepbuB  uses  etpoTwia  alone  (not  PeUa)  id  that  pauage, 
and  as  diere  was  no  Peiia  known  near  Chalcis  or  the  Antilebanon, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  af  the  error. 


I 


SCRIPTURAL   NAMES   OF   BAALBBC.  379 

tbe  above  that  the  eastern  portion  of  one  of  the  forti- 
fied works  (?)  was  raised  by  a  personage  called  Nom- 
arcAiw(?),  of  consular  family,  but  I  cannot  undertake 
to  reconstruct  the  whole  inscription.'*™ 

The  following  restoration  I  at  first  su^ested,  as 
t>emg  in  some  respects,  though  perhaps  not  in  aU,  more 
correct : — 

€PrONTOY€  (KATON 
TAPXOYA)NATOAIO(Y) 
CTPATO(n€A)APXOY 
KAIYnAT(l)OY 

No.  2. —  Epyov  Tov  e^xaTov 

■rapf^fov  A)vaTo\u){v) 

"  (The)  work  of  the  c(ent- 
urion  A)Datolitu, 
(the)  prefect  of  the  camp, 
and  (a  man)  of  consular  rank." 

Being,  however,  in  some  slight  doubt,  whether  or 

"^t  an  officer  (Anatolius)    of  consular  family,"  who 

^8  only  a  centurion,  could  be  also  a  stratopedarch, 

**  "  commander  of  the  camp,"  I  requested  the  Rev. 

'  Babington  to  consider  this  restoration,  and  he  kindly 

^J)lied  as  follows :  "  As  to  De  Saulcy's  inference  from 

*^  supposed  reading,  it  is  quite  untenable,  and  1  doubt 

^  M.  de  Saulcy'e  *  Narrative  of  a  Journey  in  the  Bible  Lauds,* 
'"'=*l.  ii.  p.  570. 

"  Consuls  were,  after  b.c.  363,  allowed  to  be  created  from  the 

'«6ria)M;  see  Liv.  vi,  41  ;  vii.  1.  21.     But  the  'primus  centurio,' 

*■    'centurio  primi  pili,'  Liv.  vii.  41,  was  ranked  in  the  equestrian 

'**'<3er  or  Equites :  see  Taciti  Hist.  iii.  22;  Juv.  Sat.  16,  17;  also 

^^e  following    inscription,  "  M  .  OPPIVS  .  .  .  CENTVR  .  LEG  . 

^I  .  P  .  .  .  TRIB  .  LEG  .  II .  FRa/eclus  CASTROR.,"  No.  6757. 

^-  362,lDBcnp.  Lat.  Select.  OrellU,  vol.  iii.  edit.  Henzm. 

VOL.  VII.  U 


\ 


280  ON    THE    SUPP08BD 

whether  all  his  letters  are  rightly  read.  Neither  can  I 
think  that  a  man,  who  is  of  so  low  a  rank  as  to  he  a 
centurion^  would  be  a  'prefect  of  *  the  camp,'  or  *of 
consular  rank.'  With  regard  to  the  first  two  Unes  you 
may  be  quite  right ;  but  the  last  two  are,  almost  cer- 
tainly, to  be  read  thus : — 

arpOT.    Ovo/iapxpu 
KM  'TiraTtov. 

i.  e.   *  in  the  magistracy  of  Onomarchus  and  Hypa- 
tius.'"     If  Mr.  Babington  be  correct  in   taking  the 
chief  portions  of  the  last  two  lines  as  containing  pro- 
per names,  I  would  then  conclude  the  reading  to  be  as      ^ 
follows : — 

No.  2. —  Epyop  Tw  eijcarov 

Topxov  A)vaTo7uo(v,) 
arpar.  *Ovofiapj(pv 
KM  'T'n-aT{i)ov. 

And  in  English — 

"  (The)  work  of  the  c(ent- 
nrion  A)natolias, 

(the)  Prset(ors  being'),  Onomarchns 
and  HypRt(i)us." 

Mr.  Babington  further  observed  that  "  two  points  ^ 
are  here  worth  remarking :  first,  the  omission  of  eirH^'^ 
which  is  commonly  used  before  officers,  when  employec:3»*  ** 
to  mark  a  date.  An  example  in  Bockb,  No.  4472  ^^ 
confirms  the  absence  of  eiri,  thus,  {nrarav  OvKiriom^^ 
Tparov  KCLi  Overiktov  ^eXevKov.  Also,  a  Roman  colonia-^^ 
coin  of  Smyrna  is  similarly  dated ;  it  bears  on  th^  ^ 
reverse,  Srpa.  Af.  SeWiov^  without  the  precedent  ejr^= 
meaning,  '  M.  Sellius  being  the  strategus,  or  Pnetor.' 

^'  See  LeaLe'B  Num.  Hell.  \kk.  p.  121. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


281 


I 


And  the  second  point  is,  that  in  this  inscription  there 

are  tuw  civic  magistrates,  ^rparTfyai,  or  Prators."    This 

is  well  explained  by  Raache,  in  these  words,  "  orrpa- 

nyyos  in  numis  Graecarum  urbium  .  .  .  de  civili  earum 

magistratu,   seu    Pratoribus,   dictus.  .  .  .  Sicut    vero 

haud  unum  ap^^ovra,  ita  haud  unum  trrpaTTjyop,  in  urbi- 

bus  id  genus  exstitisse  liquet  ex  inscriptionibus  apud 

Spomam,    et    ex    numismatibus,""      We     likewise 

find  in  Acts  xvi.  (verses  '20,  '2'2,  35,  36.381  orpanr^ol, 

in  the  plural,  is  used  for  the  city  '*  magistrates  "  of 

Philippi  in  Macedonia,  then  "  a  colony''  (verse  12)  of 

IlocDe. 

M,  de  Saulcy  writes  of  some  "subterranean  galleries," 
or  arched  vaults,  under  the  massive  platform  of  the 
great  court  or  quadrangle  in  front  of  the  two  tem- 
ples, and  be  gives  the  LnUn  inscriptions  which  he 
there  found.  He  says,  "The  keystone  of  the  door 
of  the  right-hand  gallery  has  the  following  words,  for 
■which  I  can  find  no  intelligible  meaning"  (vol.  ii. 
p.  574)  :— 

No.  in.— DIVISIO 

CHONN 
lAIVIVl 

And  "  a  little   further   on,   another  key-stone   has,'' 
GlRSV(No.  IV.). 

Also  "  in  the  left  gallery,  on  an  archstone/*  are  these 
\vordB : — 

No.  v.— DIVISIO 
MOSO 

It  seems  to  me  not  unlikely  that  these  vaults  and 
galleries,  which  are  still  occupied  for  storehouses  for 

;a  Hasche, '  LexicoQ  Ed.  Namajue,*  vol.  t.  p.  135^ 

u2 


382  ON  THE   SUPPOSBD 

corn  and  stables  for  horses,  may  have  been  partly 
used  as  barracks  or  quarters,  and  so  occupied  by  de- 
tachments of  the  Roman  cohorts  or  troops ;  and  that 
these  inscriptions  relate  to  them:  especially,  since 
Krafil  and  De  Saulcy  found  in  another  part,  although 
beyond  the  quadrangle,  the  Latin  words  "  Centuria 
Prima,"  inscribed  in  Greek  letters,  thus — 

KENTYPIA 
nPIMA 

I  therefore  suggest  the  following  meanings  for  these 
three  inscriptions  : — 

No.  3.— DIVISIO 
COHOR 
ITALICiE." 

Or,  instead  of  the  "Italian  cohort,"  probably  ITVRAIO 
— IturEeo(rum),  i.e.  "  Cohort  of  the  Jturaans  " — may 
be  more  exact,  as  such  a  cohort  was  known  from 
Orellius's  Inscriptions,  No.  5052  (p.  412.  vol.  ii.), 
where  "  COH .  I .  ITVRAIORVM  "  occur. 

No.  IV.  GIRSV  may  be  part  of  GERMA(norum), 

No.  4. 

And  No.  v.— DIVISIO  ^^,,  ^^_  DIVISIO       t^t^  . 
j^OSOmaymean^^gj^^-No.5. 

An  *'  ala  Mcesica  "  is  spoken  of  by  Tacitus  (Hist.  iii.  2) 
in  A.D.  69,  and  it  is  mentioned  in  Orellius,  Nos.  6702, 
6948,  vol.  iii. :  or  possibly  MOSO  may  be  an  error  for 
MOROCrum),  for  MAVRO(rum) ;  or  MORI(norum), 
there  having  been  cohorts  bearing  those  names. 

•  '*  So  in  Acts  z.  I,  tnntiniiT^KaXovfAiinip'lTakuaft,'' oi  the  cohort 
called  the  Italian  (cohort)."  Thia  was  a.o.  41.  Id  De  Saulcy'scopy 
CHONN  is  given ;  it  may  be  CHORT ;  for  the  word  CAor*  is  some- 
timea  uaed  for  "  Cobon." 


SCREPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBBC.  283 

Next,  two  long  inscriptions  in  Latin,  Nos.  VI.  and 
VII.,  have  been  known  for  more  than  a  century,  since 
they  were  copied  by  Wood  in  1751,  and  published,  six 
years  later,  in  Jiis  beautiful  work  on  Baalbec. 

Herr  Krafifl  again  transcribed  them  in  1 845 ;  and,  as 
his  copies  somewhat  differ  from  Wood's,  I  here  add 
them,  having  inserted  my  own  restorations. 


284 


ON   THE    8UPP08ID 


09 


I 


O 


CO 


"^  < 

CO  5 

O  as 

■5< 


> 

> 


p-> 


Dh  J  <! 

t>  ca  an 

w  ^;  O 

ffi  =  u 

Cfi  z  <J 


O 


O 
H 

< 


-     S 


•Eb 


u 


8CBIPTUEAL   HAUE8   OF   BAALBBC.  365 

And  which  I  thus  translate : — 

No.  6.— "To  the  Great  Gods  of  He!iopoli».    For  the  safety 

"  Of  the  lord  Aniottiima  Pius  AaguBtue,  and  of  Julia  Augusta,  the 
mother  of  oar  lord  of  the  Castra  (and)  Senate.  A  devoted  (aab- 
ject)  of  the  sovereigns  (caused)  the  capitals  of  the  colnmas  of 
Antatimu,  whilst  (erected)  in  the  air,  (to  be)  embossed  with  gold  at 
ter  own  (expense)." 

No.  7.— "To  the  Great  Gods  of  HeliopoUs. 

•'  The  aatbor  (of  the  work)  for  those  deities  of  the  lord  AntotnwuM 
J*iu$,  tbe  Happy,  Angastos,  and  of  Julia  Augasta,  the  mother  of  oar 
lord  of  the  Castra  (and)  Senate,  caased  the  capitals  of  the  colonuu 

of  Antomnut,  whilst  (erected  in  the  air)  to  be  (embossed)  with  gol4 

at  her  (or  bis)  own  (expense)."  " 

As  far  as  I  have  ascertained,  the  Frenchman  Balt- 
shaaar  Monconys  was  the  earliest  traveller,  who  saw  on 
December  23rd,  1647,  the  Jirst  of  these  two  famous 
inscriptions,  No.  VI.,  upon  the  base  of  a  column  in 
the  portico  of  what  he  calls  '  the  Castle,*  at  Baalbec. 

The  Jirst  line  of  it  he  has  given  thus : — 

M.V.M.DIIS.HEUVPOL.PRO.SVL. 

He  states  that,  below  it  were  two  more  lines,  in  an- 
cient and  long  characters,  which  he  could  not  read ; 
"  au-dessous  il  y  en  a  deux  autres,  et  caractferes  anciens 
longs,  dont  je  ne  pus  lire.'* '® 

~^  Orellius  (Inecript.  Lat.  Select.,  vol.  i.  p.  347)  has  given  this 
inscription  in  No.  1951,  although  he  has  incorrectly  divided  it  into 
tfn  lines;  so  De  Saulcy  (p.  571,  vol.  ii.)  has  printed  it  in  six  lines. 
Monconys  expressly  said  that  it  was  only  in  three  lines ;  and  Krafit 
has  copied  it  in  tbe  same  number.  Indeed,  conBideriog  that  the  pe- 
destal of  tbe  column  on  which  it  was  cut  was  much  greater  iu  width 
(nearly  six  feet)  than  in  height,  tbe  lines  must  necessarily  have  been 
long  and  few — three  or  four  at  tbe  most. 

''  Monconys,  'Journal  dea  Voyages,'  etc.,  pi.  i.  p.  351,  edit.  Lyon, 
1665.     He  does  not  mention  tbe  second  inscription,  No.VII. 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


286 


It  must  be  observed,  that  his  copy  inserts  at  the  be- 
ginning two  letters,  MV,  which  are  omitted  in  Wood's 
transcript. 

These  letters  may. perhaps, mean  "MVnicipalibias,'*'' 
or  "  Magnis  Victoriosis;'*  or,  as  it  seems  to  me,  since 
Monconys  has  clearly  made  a  mistuke  ia  the  last  letter 
but  one— in  writing  V  for  A — so  he  may  errone- 
ously have  written  the  two  initial  letters  ;  they  may 
possibly  have  been  NN,  for  "  Nostris,"  or  NV,  for 
"  Nostris  Victoriosis/' 

These  two  letters  have  doubtless  decayed  and  be- 
come invisible,  between  the  years  1647  and  1751  — 
the  dates  of  the  visits  of  the?e  two  travellers. 

Both  these  inscriptions  still  remain  in  the  same 
places  in  which  they  were  seen  by  Wood,  above  a 
centuryago;  namely,  on  "  the  pedestals  of  the  columns 
of  the  great  portico,"  at  a  height  of  about  twenty- 
seveti  feet  from  the  ground.  Kiatft"  says  of  them, 
"  Von  dem  Tenipel  zu  Baalbeck  sind  die  beiden  ange- 
fuhrten  Inschriften  von  den  Basen  zweier  Saulea  der 
Fronte  ties  Tempels  copirt.'' 

The  exact  positions  of  the  pedestals  are  seen  ia 
Wood's  plate  No.  IV.,  where  they  are  marked  G —  - — ■ 
being  the  two  extreme  pedestals  of  the  twelve  columns 
which  formed  the  front  of  the  portico  of  the  Great:*-* 
Temple.  The  noble  flight  of  steps  leading  up  to  thtm-*^*^ 
had  been  previously  removed,  as  well  as  the  whole  oft"^ 
the  superb  columns;  and  indeed,  this  spoliation  hadff=^ 
taken  place  before  the  time  of  Monconys  ;  because  in*:^^^*' 
his  work  a  very  rude  plate  exhibits  the  twelve  bases  ol 

^'  I  would  then  read  the  first  Hne  :  — 

"  Mii(nicipalibu.8)  M(agpis)Diis  Heli[o)iipoUeos],     Pro  «al(ule)." 

^"  Krafft.  '  TopogTHphie  Jemsalcms,'  p.  2tJ9  ;  Bboh,  1846, 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


287 


tthe  columns  of  the  portico,  icitbout  their  shafts  and 
ipitals.     Also  the  square  wing,  oi'  lateral  buildins^,  on 
ich  side,  is  apparent.     All  these,  however,  with  the 
range  of  steps,  are   fairly  represented  on  a  coin   of 

IOtacilia,    the    wife    of  the    Syrian    emperor    Philip, 
Wood's  Plate  V.  gives  a  favourable  engraving  of  the 
portico,  in  its  supposed  "  perfect  state." 
Wood  also  observes  (p.  12),  that  the  "finishing of  the 
cnpitala  was  generally   done  after  the  columns  were 
Jixed  ;"  this  will  explain  the  words  of  the  inscriptions, 
"dumaere  auro  inllata."     None  of  the  travellers  who 
have   visited    Baalbec  have   attempted   to  trace  any 
^vestiges  of  gilding  upon  the  Corinthian  capitah  them- 


I 


selves  of  the  columns  still  remaining  in  the  Great 
Temple,  although  M.  de  Saulcy  notices,  that  M.  Ma- 
riette,  in  1758,  expressed  *'  an  opinion  tliat  the  capi- 
tals of  the  porch  [portico]  had  been  gilt."  ^^  And  De 
Saulcy  has  proposed  to  read  the  words  in  the  last  lines, 
"capita  colutnnarum  duo?  serea.  auro  iulumiuata," 
and  to  translate  them  ''  two  ?  capitals  in  gilt  bronze,'* 
or  rather,  *  two  ?  bronze  capitals  illumined  with  gold  ;' 
but,  since  none  of  the  capitals  still  extant  in  or 
about  the  temples  of  marble  or  compact  limestone  are 
made  of  brass  or  bronze,  this  fact  would  evidently 
negative  sucii  a  reading. 

Whether  one  person  alone  is  signified  in  the  two  in- 
scriptions is  doubtful;  the  first  attributes  the  expense 
of  the  gilding  of  the  columns  to  a  v^oman  devoted  to 
the  two  sovereigns — the  word  '  devota  '  commencing 
with  the  Greek  letter  J — and  she  stales,  that  she 
erected  that  inscription  ^'  for  the  safety,"  or  health,  of 
the  sovereigns. 

^v  De  Saulcy's  '  Nnmtive,'  vol.  ii.  p.  572,  note. 


288 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


The  second  inscription  calls  the  person  'autor' 
merely,  and  says  that  she,  or  he,  did  it  "  for  those 
Deities  of  the  sovereigns,"  or  those  chiefly  worshipped 
by  them. 

One  inscription  may  have  been  by  the  wife,  and  the 
other  by  the  husband;  although  both  *'devota"  and 
'*  autor"  may  possibly  allude  to  the  same  munificent 
individual. 

The  capitals,  which  were  "  embossed  with  gold,"  are 
in  both  described  as  the  "  capitals  of  the  columns  of 
Antoninus ;"  and  this  description  seems  to  be  corrobo- 
rated by  the  following  extract  from  Joannes  Malalas  : — 

''After the  reign  of  Hadrian,  J?h'iM  Antoninus  Pim 
reigned ;  ...  he  erected  in  Heliopolts,  in  Phoeaicia 
of  the  Lyebanon,  a  great  temple  to  Jupiter,  and  the  same 
became  one  of  the  sights  of  the  country."^ 

There  can,  however,  be  no  doubt  but  the  Antoninus 
Pius  mentioned  in  both  inscriptions  is  intended  for 
the  Emperor  Oaracalhi,  and  the  Julia  Augusta  for  Julia 
Domna,  his  mother,  who  was  born  at  Emesa,*'  now 
Hems,  about  fifty-eight  miles  north  of  Baalbec.  Her 
father  was  the  Phoenician  Basnianus,  a  priest  in  the 
celebrated  temple  of  Baal,  or  the  sun,  in  that  city. 

This  is  correctly  stated  by  Wood^'  [p.  11)  in  his 
noble  work  on  Baalbec,  although  he  does  not  attempt 

*"  Jonnnes  MaltUas,  '  Chronrigraphia,'  p.  119,  edit.  Venrl.  1733. 
Thia  emperor's  names  are  written  there,  'HAtoc  (not  AW-ior)  'Avrfiwu^i 
Iliat.  He  succeeded  HadriRn,  who  died  a.d.  138,  at  Baia.  Bouut 
-^not  Baracs  aa  printed  in  that  editioa. 

8'    Vide  anie,  note  (7)  at  p.  5- 

^  M.  de  Saiilry  mast  liave  been  aware  of  ihie  fact;  for  he  quoles 
from  Woodliis  copks  of  the  ina<!riptionB,  in  ihe  very  page  (572)  in 
which  he  asserts,  that  he  "  made  a  correct  gueas  as  to  their  appmxi- 
male  age,"  merely  '*  from  the  shape  of  the  letterBj  and  before  he  was 


SCRIPTURAL    NAH&S    OP    BAALBBC. 


289 


assign  to  the  inecriptions  the  true  period  of  their 
[erection.     And!,  indeed,  this  cannot  he  done  with  cer- 
[tainty   nearer  than  in  a  limit  of  Jive  years,  for  it  is 
;Iear  that  the  co-emperor  Geta  had  been  previously 
[assassinated  ;  otherwise  in  both  inscriptions  JuVm  Au- 
lata  would    have  been  styled,    "MATRISDUNN," 
'Matris  DominoTMm  NostroTurtit'^  and  not  singly  DN, 
"Domini  Nostri,"  i.e.  CaracaUee. 

I  Geta  having  died  in  a.d.  212,  and  Caracalla  in 
A.D.  217,  the  period  ftpiureen  those  years  of  course  com- 
prises the  exact  date. 

And  thirdly,  I  will  take  a  brief  notice  of  the  three 
Umphi  at  Baalbec,  the  remains  of  which — so  beautifiil 
L«veQ  in  their  decay — have  been  often  drawn  and  ex- 
■"toUed  hy  travellers. 

I  find,  from  an  inscription  preserved  hy  Muratori 
and  discovered  near  Naples,  that  Jupiter  was  one  of 
■the  "great  gods  of  the  Heliopolitans,"  in  the  year 
A.D.  112,  when  the  Emperor  Trajan  was  Cos.  VI.  It 
Epeaks  of  some  natives  of  Berytus,  now  Beirut^  who 
"were  residing  at  Puteoli  (Kodie  Puzz'uoli},a.e,  being  wor- 
shippers of  the  HeliopoUtan  Jupiter,  "cultores  Javts 
Heliopolitani  :"**  and,  therefore,  it  is  certain  that 
there  must  at  that  time  have  been  a  more  ancient 
temple  to  that  great  deity,  who  was  originally  con* 
eidered  by  the  Phoenicians,  or  natives,  as  the  weiU 
Icnown  god  BaaL    It  appears,  then,  most  probable  that 


mble  lo  read  a  word."  The&e  letters  are  long  atid  very  narrow,  in 
order  to  he  brouglit  within  the  allotlcti  ?[>ace. 

"  So  on  coins,  she  ia  styled  "  Mater  Augtf."  (Angustorum,  Geta 
being  theti  alive),  "Mater  SenRlfls,"  und  "Mater  PBtriB,'"  Also 
"  Meter  Cartrorum."     See  Smyth's  "  Descrip.  CBtal."  p,  190, 

"  Vide  Orell.  '  Inscrip.  Lat.  Selec.,'  vol.  i.  p.  368,  No.  1246. 


290 


ON    THK    SUPPOSED 


the  present  gigantic  and  more  modern  temple  to 
"Jupiter  HeliopiiLitanus"  was  built  upon  the  ancient 
Bubstmctions  of  an  earlier  temple,  by  Antoninus  Pius, 
between  the  years  138  and  161  of  our  era.  The  same 
emperor  planned  and  erected,  or  possibly  began  only  to 
erect — as  the  general  character  of  the  ornamented  and 
superb  architecture  of  the  whole  would  seem  to  testify 
— the  sacred  enclosure  or  quadrangle  in  front  of  the 
great  temple,  the  courts,  colonnade,  exhedrae,  and  other 
buildings,  with  the  grand  portico,  and  flight  of  steps  ;^ 
hence  the  whole  circuit  of  those  magnificent  edifices 
became  one  of  the  chief  sights  of  that  country :  al- 
though it  is  not  unlikely  the  entire  range  of  structures 
was  not  completed  until  the  termination  of  the  reign 
(a.d.  21 1)  of  Septmiius  Severus,.  npon  a  coin  of  which 
emperor,  this  temple  is  Jirst  publicly  noticed.  This 
coin  bears  upon  its  reverse,  a.  representation  of  the  ex- 
isting great  temp!e  of  Jupiter,  having  ten  columns  in 
front;  above  it  are  the  letters  I.O.M.H.  (Jovi  Optimo  *:^ 
Maximo  Hcliopohtano),  and  below  COL.  HEL.  (Colo-  — " 
nia  Heliopolis)  appear.  The  obverse  has  the  laurcated  -fc^id 
headof  the  emperor,  with  the  words,  DIVO  SEVERO;s  4 
the  date  of  which,  I  conclude  from  the  presence  of^^ 
'  Divns,'  is  A.D.  211.  Besides,  the  same  emperor  is 
recorded  by  Ulpian  to  have  given  to  Heliopolis  thes 


^  The  ground-plan  of  the  church  of  St.  Clement— which  is  stated  to* 
be  the  mosi  ancient  churcl)  in  Rome,  and  consequently  exhibiting  onef 
of  the  earliejit  forms  of  Western  eccles^iastlcsl  structures — calls  to  my"^^^ 
mipd,  on  »  much  gmaller  scale,  the  plan  of  the  Greal  Temple  oT^^-^ 
Jnpiterr  its  )B.E-ge  square  court  or  quadmngle,  its  pottieo,  and  tAxos. 
l^  io  the  Itoman  'Cdifice  ure  to  be  aeeii,  a  vci^tibule,  &  rectan^la 
CDort  Burrounded  with  columns,  Et  portico,  and  steps  in  front.  The-^ 
recent  excavations  under  the  churcli  of  S.  GlemeTite  may  throw  lights 
on  ita  real  ag;e.     Some  viary  old  frescoes  have  been  fouiul. 


SCRIPTUHAL    NAME9   OF    BAALBEC. 


291 


I 


I 


privileges  and  right  called  Jm  ItnUcum  ;^  and  it  must 
be  also  remembered,  that  Julia  Domna  (the  daughter  of 
a  priest  of  Baal)  and  her  son  Caracalki,  who  is  associated 
with  her  in  this  inscription,  were  the  wiie  and  son  of 
"  Divus  Severus." 

The  massive  sub-haseraent,  or  substructions,  of  the 
more  ancient  temple  of  Jupiter  probably  consist  in 
part  of  those  enormous  uncemented  stones, — three  of 
which  are  of  the  most  stupendous  dimensions,*'' — which 
are  apparent  in  the  second  layer  of  the  wall  to  the  west 
of  the  Great  Temple,  and  so  have  caused  the  name  of 
Triiithon  to  be  applied  to  tlie  more  modern  and  re- 
nowned temple  of  Jupiter  Heliopolitanus.  This  cir- 
cumstance is  thus  related  in  the  'Chronicon  Paschale.' 

Ausonius  and  Olybrius  being  consuls,  in  the  year 
after  Christ  379,  "Theodosius  (in  ihe  Jtrst  year  of  his 
reign)  destroyed  the  temple  of  Heliopolis,  that  o(  Baalf 

"*  This  is  accordiug  to  Wood,  who  tfaua  cJtee  tbat  author  (lib.  1, 
De  Cen».)  :  "  Eat  et  Heliopolitanii,  qux  a  Diro  Severo  per  belli  civili? 
OCCasionem  Italia:  coloniie  rempubJicam  aceepit."  Ulpinii  died  A,0, 
S26  ;  and  he  mUsl  have  written  that  account  after  tlie  deulh  of  Sejjti- 
mius  SeveruB,  as  he  styles  him  'Divua.'  I  have  doI  heen  able  to 
Bee  the  originEil  work,  so  as  to  verify  the  passiii^e. 

t,    *  Dt.    Robinson    (Lutcr  Rea.  p.  512)  gives  the  aizeB  of  these 
■tone?,  thus;   the  first  is  sixty-four  feet  Jong:  the  eecond  i*  eiity- 
lliree  feet  eight   inchcB;  and   the   third  is  sixty-three  feet:   "their 
hei^t  is  about  thirteen  feet,  and  their  thickness  perhaps  greater. 
-They  are  laid  about  twenty  feet  above  the  ground."     Pocockt,  in 
BvdI.  2.  plate  Ti,,  gives  *'a  view  of  these  great  Btones."     And  Edriai 
(vol.  i.  p,  3o3,  edit.  Jau6erl)   mpntioiiB,   about  a.d,  IIjU,  ibis  great 
temple,  and  the  enormouB  stoneE,  as  of  the  age  of  King  i^olomon. 
Compare  I  Kings  vii,  10,  where  the  foundation  of  SoIdeddd'b  houee  for 
Llkia  wife,  Pharaoh 'a  daug'ltter,  "  was  of  costly  Blonea,  even  great  stones, 
»»t&ne5  of  ten  cubits,  and  atones  of  eight  cnhiis,"    Also  in  the  north- 
■■west  side,  the  wall  is  composed  of  many  coloBsa]  stones;  nine  being- 
found  to  "average  thirty^one  feet  in  length."' 


292  ON   THE   8UPP0SKD 

the  great   and   celebrated  one,  even  the  three-stoned 
(temple),  and  made  it  a  church  for  Christians."^ 

OvTOf  SeoSoaias  xaTeXwrev  to  Upov  'HXtotmoKettti  to  tov 
fiaXottou,  TO  fieya  luu  wepi^orfrov,  ko*  to  TPIAI&ONy  km 

The  author  of  the  chronicle  is  here  exceedingly  ac- 
curate in  calling  the  Great  Temple  of  HeliopoUs,  "  the 
Trilithon  Temple  of  Baal  "—r-which  most  clearly  cor- 
responds with  that  temple  figured  on  the  coin  of  Septi- 
mius  Severus,  which  has  ten  columns  in  its  facade, 
and  bears  the  initial  letters  I.O.M.H.,  as  already  de- 
acnbed.  Notwithstanding  that  some  authors  disagree 
about  the  interpretation  of  the  word  BaXavwv,  I  take  it 
to  mean  only  "  o(  Baal," — the  same  as  BaKd>Jov^  or 
BaaKtovt  if  Book  were  declinable ;  it  is  much  the  same 
as  the  Septuagint  word  BoKtvyaS,  "  Baal  deity."  Also, 
to  show  that  the  author  of  the  chronicle  meant  vuw  to 
be  the  mere  termination  of  BaXa,  or  Book,  he  similarly 

^  But  according  to  Socrates,  Hiat.  Eccles.  i.  14,  Coiutantine  over- 
threw some  of  tbe  altars  in  FalesttDe,  aad  ordered  a  church  to  be 
made  ^'HXbov  iro\«  t^  ^ivUtj^.  This  was  aboat  fifty  years  before 
Theodoaiua;  and  so  1.  would  seem  that  Constantine's  destructioQ  of 
the  temples  was  iocomplete. 

*  'Chronicon  Paschale,'  in  Corp.  Scrip.  Byzant.,  vol.  xii.  p.  242, 
edit.  Vmet.  1729. 

"0  The  Doric  dialect  uses  N  for  A,  as  ^  for  ^X^c,  etc.  M.  de 
Saulcy  supposes  BaXavtoi  to  consist  of  "  the  Sbemitic  word  BooX, 
and  the  Greek  'HXwx,  mn  ;"  and  that  this  temple  was  "the  Temple  of 
Baal,  or  the  mn,  aod  sumamed  Trilithon"  (vol.  ii.  p.  578).  This 
is  evidently  erroneous,  as  I  have  shows  in  the  text ;  the  tmaller 
temple  being  that  of  the  sun.  Mr.  Porter,  in  his  '  Handbook,* 
vol.-  ii.  p.  560,  has  made  the  same  mistake,  most  likely  by  following 
Dr.  Robinson  (Later  Res.  p.  521).  Another  author  has  conjectured, 
with  more  probability,  that  NIOS  is  an  error  in  copying  for  AIOS, 
"  of  Jupiter,"  aod  consequently  BAAAAI02  (of  Jnpiter  Baal)  is  the 
true  word. 


SCRIPTUKAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


293 


I 


I 


I 


Uses  vrfoias  for  the  genitive  termination  of  Libanua, 

The  passage   I  insert,  since  it  refers  to  Heliopolis 
and  is  of  interest. 

The  '  Chronicon  Paschale '  meations,  in  the  2t)9th 
Olympiad  (=a,d.  297),  which  was  during  the  rule  of 
Diocletian,  the  martyrdom  of  St.  Gelasinus  in  the 
theatre  in  the  city  of  the  lieliopolitans  of  (or  in)  the 
Lebanon,— ei*  t^  'HXioirrroXn&iv  TrdXei  Ti5f  Atffav^aias.^^ 
So  Joannes  Malalas  writes,  ev  'HXiavTrdXet  tou  Ai^dvavr*^ 
Doubtless,  then,  the  words  Toi)  BaXaviov  are  synony- 
mous with  Toil  BilaX,  or  rov  BaXai  and  all  these  corre- 
spond with  Tov  Jios,  Juvis,  "of  Jupiter,"  that  is,  "  of 
Baal,"  "of  Jupiter,"  or  '*  of  Jupiter  Baal." 

The  second  Roman  temple  is  nearly  one-fourth 
smaller,  though  more  perfect,  than  the  former ;  it 
stands  only  fifty  yards  apart  from  it  on  the  south,  and 
has  but  eight  columns  in  front.  It  is  built  in  the  same 
highly-finished  style  of  architecture.  This  temple  has 
doubtless  been  sacred  to  'HXwv,  the  sun,  or  Apollo. 
The  great  doorway  under  the  east  portico,  leading  into 
the  temple,  is  one  of  the  most  splendid  specimens  of 
oruamented  sculpture  and  6nish,  which  is  now  in  exist- 
ence. The  elaborate  and  rich  design  of  flowers  and 
fruit  in  its  front,  is  no  less  beautiful  than  perfect  in  its 
execution.  In  order  to  judge  of  its  large  dimensions, 
its  height  is  found  to  be  about  double  of  its  width, 
i.  €  fourteen  yards  high  by  about  seven  yards  in 
width.  The  top,  or  lintel,  consists  only  of  three  stones; 
the  centre  one,  or  keystone  (soffit),  has  become  mis- 
placed by  the  effect  of  an  earthquake  within  the  last 

■*!  Corp.  Scrip.  ByzaiJt.  vol.  lii.  p.  320. 

«  'Chronographia,'  p.  119,  edit.  Venet.  1733. 


294 


ON    THP    SUPPOSED 


century,  and  it  is  kept  suspended  between  the  other 
two  stones.  Under  this  keystone  is  admirably  carved 
an  eagle,  carrying  a  caducetis  in  its  claws.  This,  as 
Pococke  well  observes,  "  possibly  represents  the  sun 
to  whom  that  temple  was  dedicated."*' 

The  httle  rotunda^  or  circuiar  temple,  is  of  similar 
decorated  architecture  and  of  great  beauty.  Its  (brni 
is  remarkable,  and  very  different  from  the  famous  ro- 
tunda or  temple  of  Vesta^*  at  Rome.  It  is  a  circle, 
to  whicli  are  attached  externally  by  their  curved  sides 
five  arcs  or  segments  of  a  circle,  whose  ends  are  sup- 
ported by  six  Corinthian  columns.  The  diameter  of 
the  interior  is  thirty-two  feet.  The  facade  seems  to 
have  presented  to  view  four  columns,  and  a  flight  of 
steps  leading  up  to  the  temple  between  the  two  cen- 
tral columns.  From  thence  a  doorway,  thirteen  feet 
wide,  led  into  the  inside ;  which  is  in  its  lower  part 
Ionic,  but  the  upper  is  Corinthian.  All  the  elegant 
columns,  both  external  and  internal,  have  vionoHth<d 
shafts.  It  was  covered  by  a  circular  dome  of  hewn 
stones,  now  fallen,  and  is  situated  about  three  hun- 
dred yards  to  the  south-east  of  the  other  two  temples. 
I  am  strongly  inclined  to  think  that  it  was  the  tem- 
ple sacred  to  Voluptoii,  or  Venus^  who  is  signified 
by    Eusebius^^    under   the   appellation    of  'USofjf,  or 

^  'Descriplion  of  the  Etist,'  vol.  li.  p,  109. 

"  '■  As  in  the  temple  of  Vesta  the  sacred  fire  was  alweys  kept 
burning  by  the  virgins,  bo,  on  thia  leiTsple  being  converted  iato  a 
Christian  church,  it  wus  dedicated  to  ikie  Virgin,  with  the  title  of 
the  SuK, — Sta.  Maria  del  Sole." — Hogg's  'Letters  from  Abroad,' 
p,  28.  Also  we  learn  frgm  a  coin  of  JuHa  Dvmna,  described  by 
Smyth  Cp.  lay,  No.  340)  Ihat  its  reverse  lias  "VeBta  Mater,"  uid 
this  circolar  temple,  which  she  is  siiid  to  have  rebuilt. 

»  Euaeb.  De  Vita  Constant,  lib.  iii.  c.  56. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES  OF   BAALBEC.  295 

Pleasure,  and  which  was  "  at  Heliopolis  of  the  Phoe- 
nicians,' en-l.TTJi  ^oivueeav  'BXtoinroKewt.  Although  no 
inscription  has  as  yet  been  discovered  which  relates  to 
this  goddess  and  her  licentious  rites,  as  practised  in 
that  city,  still  Eusebius  records  that  she  was  greatly 
reverenced  in  Heliopolis. 

Dr.  Robinson  styles  this  temple  "a  perfect  gem;" 
and,  having  been  so  elegant  a  structure,  it  was  altoge- 
ther worthy  of  the  Goddess  of  Beauty.  It  has  been  of 
later  date,  even  in  the  last  century,  used  as  a  Greek 
church. 

"  No  description,"  says  the  same  traveller, "  can  con- 
vey more  than  a  very  imperfect  idea  of  the  overpower- 
ing grandeur  or  the  impressive  decay  "  of  these  splen- 
did, but  sadly-ruined,  temples.  "  In  vastness  of  plan, 
<x>mbined  with  elaborateness  and  delicacy  of  execution, 
they  ^em  to  surpass  all  others  in  Western  Asia,  in 
Africa,  and  in  Europe.  They  are  like  those  of  Athens 
in  lightness,  but  surpass  them  far  in  vastness;  they  are 
'\-ast  and  massive  like  those  of  Thebes,  but  far  excel 
them  in  airiness  and  grace."^^ 

Having  already  described  the  earliest  coin,  upon 
^hich  the  Great  Temple  of  Heliopolis  appears,  and 
ivhich  seems  to  be  one  belonging  to  the  end  of  the 
reign  of  Septimius  Severus,  and  which  most  likely  was 
struck  (a.o.  211)  in  honour  of  his  obsequies,  on  his 
then  recent  death,  or  on  his  apotheosis,  or  deification, 
I  will  proceed  to  mention  several  other  coins,  which 
illustrate  the  temples  and  the  Sun-worship  in  that  an- 
cient city  of  Baal. 

In  Admiral   Smyth's  '  Catalogue   of  Large   Brass 
Medals'  (p.  123,  No.  218),  a  fine  medal  of  Anto- 

■•  Robinson's  I^ater  Bibl.  Researches,  pp.  516-17. 
VOL.  VII.  X 


296 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


rinus  Pius  is  stated  to  have  on  its  reverse  a  6^re  of 
Apollo,  the  liead  of  whicb  "  is  encompassed  with  a 
large  nimbus,  or  glory."  This  figure  very  probably 
presents  an  allusioa  to  the  Apollo,  or  Sun-deity,  of 
Heliopolis,  where  the  great  temple  of  Jupiter  Baal 
was  being  rebuilt  by  him.  Julius  Capitolinus,  in  hi» 
raemoir  on  Antoninus  Pius,  makes  no  mention  of 
this;  but  he  writes,  in  chapter  ix.,  "  terrse  motus^ 
quo  Rhodiorum,  el  Jsi^s  oppida  conciderunt ;  qua^= 
omnia  mirific^  imUiuravit."  The  ancient  temple  ol 
Baal  at  Heliopolis  may  very  probably  have  been  in^ — ■ 
jured  by  the  ^ame  earthquake,  and  tliat  emperor  re — 
built  it  in  the  splendid  Corinthian  style.  About  th^ 
year  69  a.d.,  Vespasian  restored  the  temple  of  th^ 
Paphian  Venus  in  Cyprus,  which  had  been  overthrowc^ 
by  a  like  convulsion  ;  this  was  some  seventy  years  be  - 
fore ;  but  earthquakes  are  frequent  in  all  that  country 
indeed,  the  circular  temple  at  Baalhec  is  now  so  ruiae^= 
by  them  tliat  it  is  likely  to  fall  at  any  time.  The  dat^  ■ 
of  that  medal  is  about  a.d.  14j,  after  that  emperor 
"was  Consul  for  the  fourth  time. 

But  an  earlier  coin  of  Severus  is  referred  to  b»" 
Eckbel^''  which  shows  tEiat  that  emperor  was  repr^S 
sented  as  tiie  Sim,  or  the  Lord  of  Day,  and  his  wili^ 
Julia  Domna,  as  the  Moon,  or  Queen  of  Night. 

So,  a  coin  of  their  son,  Caracalla,  in  his  fourC^^ 
consulship,  A.D.  215,  is  described  in  Smyth *s  work"*'^^ 
exhibiting  that  emperor  with  a  radiated  head  drivir"»? 
in  a  quadriga,  like  the  Sun,  or  Apollo, — Mdtmyi  <r*-* 
'Ktyvpa  Terpc'topov  app-a  (Stw/taii-,"'''— and  of  whom  Xyphilin*-*^ 

'■P  Eckhel,  Doct.  Num.  vol.  vii.  pp.  381-2. 
«  See  Srayth'a  Descrip.  Cat.  p.  195,  No.  364. 
*"  Orphena,  'Hymn  to  HeliuB,"  v.  19. 


SCftlFTCRAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


297 


rntes,  "  Dicebat  se  in  agitandis  currlbus  solem  itniisxi, 
ique  in  re  maxime  gloriabatur/' 
Also  on  a  coin  of  Caracalla,  raeutioned  by  Mionnet,'^™ 
le  reverse  has  a  side-view  of  the  temple  of  Jupiter, 
Jrnamented  with  a  great  number  of  columns,  and  a 
light  of  steps  leading   up  to   it,  the  legend   being, 
Col.  Hel.  I.O.M.H. ;"  and  on  some  more  coins  of 
'aracalla  and  Uomna  tlie  word  Heliopolis,  or  HeL,  or 
Col.-Hel.,  occurs. 

The  principal  coin,  however,  to  which  I  have  before 
alluded,  is  that  of  Olacilia,  the  empress  of  Philip  the 
Arabian.     It  seems  to  have  been  minted  soon  after 
Hfc.D.  245.     Its  obverse  bears  the  head  of  the  empress, 
■with  the  words  around,  "  OtaciUa  Severa  Aug(usta) ;" 
>vhilst  its  reverse  presents,  for  ><o  small  a  coin,  a  very  fair 
representation  of  the  facade  of  the  portico  of  the  great 
lemple  at  Baalbec,  with  the  Upo  lateral  buitdings,  and 
■he  noble  flight  of  steps.     Immediately  over  the  roof 
of  the  portico  are  the  letters,  '^.O.M.Ii."  (lovi  Op- 
timo Maximo  Heliopolitano).     Again,  above  them  in 
the  field,  the  legend  "  Col.  Jul.  Aug.  F.  H."  is  seen, 
and.  this  signifies, "  Colonia  Julia  Augusta  Felix  Helio- 
polis/'      Below,    in   the   exergue,  tlie   abbreviations 
^*  Col.  Hel."  (Colonia  Ileliopolitana)  occur,  with  the 
^gure  of  a  cypress — a  tree  indigenous  in  Lebanon^ — 
between  them.     Also,  within  the  central  door  of  the 
)rtico,  another  cypress-tree  is  visible.     Eckhel-  in- 
;rpret3  the  presence  of  the  cypress  here  from  being 


>"*  Vide  Mionntt.  Dcscr.  de  MtdaiUcB,  torn.  v.  p.  300,  No,  109, 
IJj^l^  EccleBiaEticuB  (xxiv.  13)  it  ib  BaJd,  iti   tbe  S£]ttufl.^mt, 
■  MM'^twu oc  6'  Qptmv  'AipfAt^v,  "  like  a  ct/press-tree  in  the  niuuntuiiia 
llennon." 
^  Doct.  Nam.  vol.  iii.  p.  331. 

X  2 


298 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


the  tree  sacred  to  the  Sun  ;  for  the  youth  Cyparissus, 

beloved  by  Apollo,  was  transformed  by  him  into  that 

tree — 

"  Sumptoque  rigore 
Sidereum  gracili  apGLtare  cacuenitie  caelum." 

And  the  same  learned  author  thus  explains  the  repre- 
sentation on  this  coin : — "  Typus  hie  mox  dicta  de 
Jove  ct  Sole  uno  nomine  comprehensis  confirrnat ;  epi- 
grapke  namque  ad  Jovem,  arbor  ad  Solet/i  refertur.'* 

The  portico  there  figured  has  six  columns  ou  each 
side  of  the  central  door ;  and   it  is  on  the  wide,  bnt 
low,  bases  of  the_;^r.s(  and  twelfth  of  these  columns  that 
the  two  long  inscriptions,  No.  VI.  and  No.  VII,,  are 
still  visible.     Proceeding  tbroujih  this  door,  and  hav 
ing  traversed  tbc  courts,  the  great  temple,  with  its  te. 
columns  in  front,  is  approached  :  this  temple  is  iden 
tified  by  the  previously  described  coin  of  Severus,  an 
it  bears  the  same  four  initial  letters,  I.O.M,H.,  as  are 
seen  on  the  coin  of  Otacilia.     The  portico^  then,  anc 
the  greal  temple  beyond  it,  are  thus  indisputably  de- 
cided as  having  been  both  dedicated  to  the  great  Elelio 
politan  JupiteVj  or  Baal ;    consequently,  the   tmail 
temple  on  the  south-west  side  of  these  magnificen 
structures  must  be  that  which  was  sacred  to  Apollo^ca 
the  Sun,  or  Helin/i.^  * 

A  medal  of  Philip  Senior,  described  by  Mionne 
(No.  123,  p.  302),  bears  on  its  obverse  the  laureates 
head  of  Philip,  and  on  its  reverse  a  cypress-tree  ia  - 

'  I  have  been  Ihus  minute  in  the  iiJenti fixation  of  the    portico  a 
the  /ipo  temples,  betftuse  three  recent  travellers  have  mistaken  ihci 
M.  dc  Saulcy  (ii.  p.  554)  seems  to  Iiave  been  tbe  first  to  assign         • 
change  of  nsmea   to   the  two  temple? ;  the  second  is  Dr.  Robinsi^* 
(p.  521),  who  has  followed  him;    and  the  ihird  < Mr.  Porter)  It^*' 
often  iticooBiJerately  copies  from  the  American,  especially  in  hi' 
'  Handbooli  of  Syria,' 


-d 


SCRIPTURAL    NAME9   OF    BAALBEC. 


299 


temple ;  at  the  foot  of  its  steps  an  altar,  etc.,  with  the 
■  legend,  "Col.  Hel.  I.O.M.H. ;"  and  Admiral  Smyth 
P  alludes  (p.  264)  to  a  medallion  of  the  same  emperor, 

which  is  inscribed  '^  ex  oraculo  Apollinis.^'     Both  of 

(these  would  show  that,  at  Jir.tt,  that  emperor  was  a, 
worshipper  of  .lupiter  Baal,  or  Apollo,  or  the  Sun. 
In  Heliopolis  there  was  a  famous  oracle,  doubtless  es- 
tablished by  the  ■priests  of  Baal,  which  (about  a.d.  113) 
■had  been  more  than  once  consulted  by  the  Emperor 
Trajan.     Accordina;  to  several  writers,  among  whom 
are  St.  Jerome  and  Chrysostom,  Philip  became  a  con- 
vert to  Christianity  .f/iorf/y  before  his  death*     But  it 
pifieems  most  likely,  from  this  coin  of  Otacilia,  that  she 
continued  a  foilower  of  the  worship  of  the  Heliopolitan 
Jupiter,  and  that  it  was  minted  after  or  about  the  time 
of  the  death  of  her  tms  baud,  near  Verona,  in  the  summer 
of  AD.   249;  the  empress  and    her  son,  the  younger 
Philip,  the"nobiIis  Caesar,"  being  then  in  Rome, 
b    That  this  smaller  temple  was  dedicated  to  Apollo, 
or    Helius,  the  sculptured  eagle,  already  noticed    as 
seen  on  the  soffit  of  its  great  door,  fully  confirms.     A 
representation  of  this  eagle  is  given  in  Wood's  "Baal- 
bec,*  tab.  34,  fig.   E;  It  is  drawn  as  flying  with  out- 
stretched wings,  and  bearing  in  its  claws  a  caduceus, 
■but  the  ground  on  which   it  is  placed  is  quite  plain 
Hknd  unornamented.     The  caduceus  here  figured  has 
^ot  the  two  entwined  suakes,  and  Fococke  states  it  to 
•*  l">e  an  emblem  of  commerce  and  riches,  which  are  the 
■consequence  of  the  bounty  "  of  the  Sun.     Indeed  I  find 
^hat  many  of  the  coins  of  Heliopolis  bears  figures  of 
the  caduceus.      This  winged    rod    once   belonged    to 


*  See  Trane.  Roy.  Soc.  Lit.,  vol.  v.  p.  2i0, 


300 


ON    TUB    SUPPOSBD 


Apollo^  and  was  held  to  typify  peace,  happiness,  and 

good  fortune. 

Further,  it  is  worthy  of  notice,  that  on  the  soffit  of 
the  door  of  the  cella  of  the  temple  of  the  Sun  at  Pal- 
myra  is  sculptured  a  similar  eagle,  with   expanded 
wings,  carrying  in  its  claws  two  palm-branches,  which, 
doublleas,  are  equally  emblematic  of  peace  and  pro- 
sperity.    It  is  engraven  in  Wood's  '  Palmyra,*  tab.  18, 
fig.  H,  but  the  ornamented  ground  upon  which  it  i 
represented  is  intended  for  the  fte«wH.f,  because  nume 
rous  stars  are  figured  ;  and  below  the  palm -branches 
on  each  side,  are  seen  three  balls,  which  perhaps  signifv 
fire-balls  or  celestial  meteors. 

In  both  the  eagles  differ  from  that  represented 
the  attendant  bird  of  Jupiter,  by  bearing  a  crest,  which^Kn 
may  possibly  allude  to  the  radiated  orb  or  rays  of  th 
Sun.  Of  all  birds,  indeed^  the  eagle  is  the  most  ap 
proprtate  emblem  of  the  sun,  since  it  is  considered  t 
be  able  to  look  upon  its  dazzling  splendour  with  ease  -^ 
and  in  its  aerial  fliirht^  to  approach  nearer  to  it  thai^M 
any  other  winged  creature.  ^ 

The  eagles  on  the  soffits  of  these  two  temples  a— ^^^ 
Baalbec  and  Palmyra  are  doubtless  intentionally  th^  ** 
aawe  in  design,  and  they  emblematically  proclaim  ih*  -^^* 
Sun,  or  Melius,  to  be  the  deity  to  which  they  wer'"^** 
consecrated ;  the  pahri-branchest  moreover,  apparenrfTdtl 
in  the  latter,  clearly  allude  to  the  Roman  and  Hebre^'^  " 
names  of  the  city,  Palmyra  and  Thadmor,  or  Tudmo 


''  The  eagle,  wlien  soaring  in  the  air,  if  forfehortened,  would 
Bemble  the  fi^re  of  a.  m»j/ed  nens  )■  f'  tbe  orb  of  clay  corresponi 
ing  to  the  esgle'*  body,  and  each  auslained  by  two  wings.  Tlie  si^*" 
with  wings  signified  ila  tkeji  supposed  dat'/y  molion ,  and  its  power  ^^ 
penetniting'  into  all  coniera  of  the  world.     See  Paaltn  xiX-  G, 


SCElPtURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


301 


Jerived  from  Tamnr,  "^^ri— a  dnte-palm  tree.  In  fact, 
the  palm-tree,  it  must  be  recollected,  was  also  sacred 
to  the  god  Apollo,  as  he  was  bom  under  oue  on 
Mount  Cynthus,  in  the  isle  of  Delos." 

tThe  great  tetiiple  of  Jupiter  and  the  smaller  one  of 
lie  Sun,  although  so  close  together,  were  most  likely 
t  first  independent  and  distinct  in  their   respective 
deities,  or  objects  of  separate  worship.     The  first  was 
doubtless  iu  its  original  state,  that  very  ancient  one 
spoken  of  as  the  "Temple  of  Baal,"  and  erected  for 
^he  early  Phoenician  inhabitants  of  Buaiutfi,  the  city 
■built  by  Solomon,''  in  the  tenlh  century  before  Christ. 
BAufter  the  decay  of  that  temple  Antoninus  Pius  began 
■bo   rebuild  il,   and   this  he  did  on  a   more  enlarged 
and  magnificent  scale ;  that  emperor  having,  without 
doubt,  planned  the  additional  superb  edifices,  courts, 
P^wrticoes,  etc.,  which  were  to  form  the  approaches  to 
the  great  temple,  and  in  the  vast  precincts  of  which  it 
was   enclosed.     The  completion  of  these  additional 
structures  was  clearly  effected  by  his  immediate  suc- 
cessors in  the  empire. 
■    Then  this  new  temple  seems  to  have  received  the 
■itie  of  the  great  Roman  god,  Jupiter,  in  addition  to,  or 
combined   witb,   tlie  original  Plio^nictan  deily,  Batil; 
and  so  the    Roman    names   of  the  conjoint  divinity 
became  Jupiter  Baal^  whilst  the  Greek  appellations 


"  See  Homer'*  '  Hymn  to  Apollo,'  IS  and  117 ;  and  Callimachus^ 
*IIymn  to  Apollo/  4. 

k^  There  seetDS  to  be  milch  resemblance,  in  the  early  and  mABsire 
r\e  of  building  with  "  ^reat  stones,"  betwe*-n  the  attb-tiaseraenl  of 
ia  temple  and  the  remains  of  the  sf>lid  wall  at  the  "Jews*  Wailing 
Place"  in  JerusBlcm.     Eolh  would  ajipeoT  to  point  out  Salomon  u 
ttheir  builder, 


302  ON    TUB   SUPPOSED 

were  Ztvt  BoKoXm?  or  Zevs''H\io9.  It  seems  furtfaer 
to  be  most  probable,  that  after  the  Romans  or  the 
Greek  natives  had  changed  the  names  of  the  city  from 
Baalath,  and  On  or  Avert,  to  Heliopolia,  they  built  for 
their  own  worship  a  temple — about  the  beginning  of 
the  third  century  of  our  era — which  they  dedicated 
to  the  deity  of  their  own  extended  mythology,  who 
represented  in  many  of  his  characters  the  local  god, 
Baal,  or  the  Sun,  viz.  to  Apollo,  or  Helius.  From 
the  present  ruined  condition  of  the  walls  and  build- 
ings contiguous  to  these  two  temples,  it  has  not  been 
decided  that  the  smaller  temple,  or  that  of  Apollo,  or 
Sol,  was  ever  included  within  the  same  area  and  sacred 
walls  as  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Baal;  but,  from  the 
representation  on  the  reverse  of  the  coin  of  Otacilia, 
the  presence  of  the  two  cypresses — that  species  of  tree 
so  sacred  to  the  Sun,  Helius,  or  Apollo — would  indi- 
cate that  they  had ;  and,  indeed,  the  temple  of  the 
Sun  was  only  ten  yards  distant  from  the  south  wall  of 
the  great  quadrangle. 

Consequently  it  would  appear,  that  in  the  time  of 
Philip  and  Otacilia  the  worship  and  sacred  mysteries, 
as  conducted  in  these  two  temples,  were,  in  a  great 
degree,  united;  although  most  probably  the  oracular 
functions  were  confined  to  the  smaller  temple  of  Apollo 
(Sol),  and,  possibly,  the  two  vaulted  rooms*  beneath 
its  upper  end,  or  altar,  were  occupied  by  the  priests 
of  the  oracle  ;  whilst  the  famous  and  ancient  image  of 
Jupiter,  or  Zeus  Helius,  which  had  been  brought  from 
Egypt,  was  retained  as  the  sacred  idol  in  the  great 
temple  of  Jupiter  Baal,  or  Zeus  Heliopolites.  So,  I 
apprehend,  no  doubt  can  exist  that  the  worship  of 

^  See  Pococke,  vol.  ii.  p.  109. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES   OF    BAALDEC. 


303 


Jofl/,  afterwards  identified  with  Jupiter,  and  the  cul- 
ture of  Apoiio,  with  his  usual  power  of  conferring 
oracles,  in  tlie  character  of  the  Sun-deity,  '*  Deus  Sol," 
being  originally  distinct,  were  gradually  assimilated^ 
by  the  mixed  people  of  Ilehopolis,  namely,  Phceai- 
cians,  Grreco-Syriaus,  Greeks^  and  Romans ;  and,  at 
length,  they  became  one  and  the  same.  And  this  the 
acute  Eckhel  evidently  means,  where  he  has  well  said 
of  the  coin  of  OtaciUa,  "Typus  hie  ,  .  .  de  Jove  et 
Sole  uno  nomine  comprehensis  confirmat." 

Moreover,  the  ttnhn  of  the  worship  of  the  deities 
Jupiter,  Zeus,  or  Baal,  and  Apollo,  Phcebus,  or  the 
Sun,  is  indicated  on  the  reverse  of  a  Phcenician  coin 
figured  in  Combe's  Num.  Vet.  No.  12,  pi.  13. 
Jupiter,  as  Baal,  is  seated  upon  a  winged  wheel,  which 
represents  the  Sun'tt  car;  in  bis  left  hand  he  holds  an 
eagle,  the  emblem  of  the  Sun,  Heljus,  or  Apollo. 
Below  the  eagle,  in  the  field,  is  seen  what  Combe 
terras  "  larva  barbata,"  which  is,  in  fact,  a  n»asU,  or 
head,  of /SiYcnu*.  This  is  the  Due  de  Luynes'  inter- 
pretation of  what  Combe  supposed  to  be  an  "  un- 
known coin."  The  introduction  of  the  bearded  bead 
of  that  sylvan  god,  in  the  lower  part  of  the  field,  re- 
fers most  likely  to  the  oracular  skill  of  Apollo^  since 
Siletius  was  considered  as  a  prophet,  with  whom  the 
pasty  as  well  aB  future,  events  were  equally  familiar : — 


"Narnqne  canebat,  Dti  magnum  per  ioane  coacta 
Semina  terrarumquc  antmieque  manaque  fuiageDt, 
Gl  liquidi  eimiiil  ignis  p  .  .  . 
Jani<^u«  novum  terrw  atupeant  lucewere  tdttnt." 


•  So  AntiQcbus  IV.  {Epiphanea)  associaled  the  worahip  ai  Jupiter, 
about  a.C.  17l.witii  tLal  of  tlic  celebrated  Apollo  in  ihe  aauctuary  at 


304  ON    THE   SUPPOSED 

And  the  same  poet  ^'^  afterwards  speaks  of  the — 

'*  Oracula  Fanni 
Fatidici." 

And  jElian,  mentioning  Silenus,  describes  him  thus : 

'O  SiK-t"^^  ouTOt  $eov  fjiv  dtpavearepos  rrfv  ^trof,  avOpmiroi^ 
Se  Kpemav  Ktu  $ttvarov  ^v.^^ 

The  two  long  inscriptions,  No.  VI.  and  No.  VII., 
mention  the  "  great  gods  of  Heliopolis,"  "  Magni  Dii 
HeUoupolitani,"  and  these,  as  far  as  can  be  ascertained, 
were  Baal,  Zeus,  Jupiter,  Apollo,  Phoebus,  Sol,  or 
Helius,  and  Venus,  Aphrodite,  or  Hedone  (Voluptas). 

To  the  Goddess  of  Beauty,  or  Pleasure^  having  al- 
ready sufficiently  alluded,  I  will  now  proceed  briefly 
to  consider  these  other  great  gods,  their  identity  under 
certain  attributes,  and  the  one  common  worship  (at  a 
later  period)  of  the  Sun-deity. 

The  Sun  was  the  "  great  god "  whom  the  most 
early  nations,  who  were  ignorant  of  the  one  Almighty 
Creator  of  the  Universe,'®  chiefly  worshipped,  and 
whom  they  held  to  be  the  Lord  or  Sovereign  of 
Heaven,'^  and  the  great  Father  of  the  world.  This 
was  most  natural,  seeing  that  that  splendid  luminary, 
in  his  vast  power,  gave  life,  vigour,  warmth,  and  in- 
crease to  all  parts  of  the  universe,  and  to  every  created 

Daphne,  near  Antioch.  See  Smith's  Diet.  Greek  and  Rom.  Geog., 
vol.  i.  p.  751.  And  in  that  sacred  spot  there  were  some  famoos  cy- 
presses.    Compare  2  Maccab.  iv.  33. 

»  Virgil.  Eel.  vi.  31,  37,  and  Mu.  vii.  81. 

"  .^lian,  Var.  Hist.,  lib.  iii.  cap.  18. 

'•  Being  "  ignorant  of  God;  neither  by  considering  the  works  did 
they  acknowledge  the  Workmaster." — See  'Wisdom  xiii.  1-5,  aod 
Psalm  xix.  1,  6. 

"  See,  as  to  Sol  or  Heltus  having  been  taken  ioto  heaven,  Diodor. 
Sic,  lib.  iii.  cap.  57. 


SCR1FTUBA.L    NAMES    OP    BAALBEC. 


305 


I 


I 


I 


being.  Without  his  presence  it  was  conceived  that 
nothing'  could  grow,  or  flourish,  or  arrive  at  maturity, 
but  that  everything  would  perish  ;  and,  by  being  ob- 
scured in  perpetual  darkness,  and  through  want  of 
sufficient  heat,  every  creature  would  cease  to  grow, 
and  would  inevitabty  be  lost.  Besides,  his  supposed 
daily  and  annual  motions  seemed  to  invest  the  Sun 
with  a  supernatural  or  celestial  influence  and  eternal 
power,  which  would  also  conduce  those  persons,  to 
whom  the  only  true  God  was  unknown,"  to  regard 
him  with  awe,  to  laud  him  with  prayers  and  hymns 
for  his  great  benefits  conferred  on  them,  and  to  con- 
tinue to  adore  him  in  wonder  and  admiration. 

The  solar  orbf  then,  was  worshipped  in  most  Pagan. 
countries  under  various  appellations.  Thus,  in  cer- 
tain of  his  characters,  the  Svn  is  identified  with  the 
carUest  Phceuician  god  Baal,  as  well  as  with  the  great 
father  of  gods,  Jtrpiler.  Sanchoniathon,'^  many  cen- 
turies before  Christ,  records  that  Beelsamen^  or  Baal- 
nhamin,  meaning  the  "  Lord  of  the  Heavens,"  was 
considered  by  the  Phoenicians  to  be  the  Sun,  llelius, 
■who  was  called  by  the  Greeks  Zevr,  or  Jupiter.  Also, 
in  2  Kings  xxiiL.  5,  Baal  is  evidently  spoken  of  (about 
B.C.  6'24)  as  identical  with  "  the  Sun ;"  ^^  and  the  same 
is  to  be  understood  in  2  Chron.  xxxiv.  4,  at  nearly  the 


-*  Top  fimroy  (lAijptFoi'  0«av,  ov  o-  Kocr^s  ovic  JyKOj. — St,  John, 
chap,  zvii.  3,  25. 

'^  See  this  before  stated  at  p.  I2j  and  tlie  passage  ie  cited  in 
note  21. 

"  "To  Bsal,  the  Sun,"  as  in  the  original  Hebrew,  which  show* 
that  they  were  not  Iwo  deities,  but  oaf — "  to  Boo/ (who  is)  the  Smb." 
Had  it  l>een  written  "^to  Uaol  and  to  the  Sun,"  the  itieaniog  would 
hsTc  applied  to  turo.    The  opioion  of  Gesenitis  ciuinot  here  hc  correct. 


306 


ON    THB    SUPPOSED 


same  period,  when  the  altars  of  the  Baals^'^  and  the 
"sun-images'"  above  them  were  broken  down. 

And  in  an  inscription  found  at  Palmyra,  and  in  the 
Palmyrene  dialect,  Baal  is  termed  Shemesh,  or  the 
SlCH,^;mV?  hyr'2  ;  BaaiSheme&h  signifying  "  Baal  Sun," 
or  "the  Lord  Sun."  '^ 

Herodotus  (L  181)  expressly  states  that  the  Baby- 

'^  Tlie  original  is  here,  and  in  Judges  ii.  H,  □''.i^^T',  krt  Baalim, 
"the  Jiatih,''  or  "  idols  of  Ban/,''  the  pJiSrul  of  liaai,  "  Bahalim, ' 
and,  according  to  the  French  version;  "  ]es  BahalinA."  So,  ifi 
2  Chron.  xxiiv.  4,  the  eame  words  are  found  ;  "  the  •ju'w-images,"  as 
gtven  in  Iht:  toafgiii  of  otiir  English  Bibk^  is,  in  Ihe  original  □"*2?2m, 
which  Walton  rendcps  in  Ijatin  "apricationea/'    In  Greeks  apriealie 

'"  Vide  Movers,  'Die  PhouiKter,'  i.  174.  la  like  manner,  iu 
Joshua  xix.  41,  Ir-shemesk.  i.e.  the  "city  of  the  Sua  "  (another 
Heliopolin),  is  nn-eotiacied  ;  and  in  Jeremiah  :;Eliii.  |3.  Bfth-shfftesh, 
the  "  house  of  the  Sun,'  In  the  first  of  these  texts,  the  Aleiandrinc 
version  closely  translele*  the  words  by  iroX«  Sq/ik;  but  the  Vatit^n 
ia  less  accurate  in  making  them  plural,  ttaktit  lia^iuaxt;  and  the  lut 
word  is  not  »i3  near  Shemesh,  or  Semes,  as  '^a^l<i.  Also,  in.  the  ^rood 
tent,  the  LXX.  have  rendered  5i?fi4-sACT7i*'sAimo'HAioi«roXis;and  "the 
land  of  Egypt  "is  represented  by'IJi".  or  On.  in  Egypt.  Our  Bible 
read*,  "the  imagcB  of  Se{h-shgmesh,  that  19  in  the  Isud  of  Eg\-pt," 
which  the  LXX.  have  translated  tou?  a-rvkov;  'l£Aioir7rr)\«us.  toi\  «r 
"Hk.  Again,  in  Uaiah  Jcix,  IS,  our  J3ible  has  translaled  D'lHnT'i'i 
ir  ha  heres,  "  the  city  of  destruction  ;"  and  in  the  margin  "  gf  WerWi 
or  of  the  Sk«,"  The  LXX.  here  render  -tmJAk  'Ao-tS«<,  whereas  the 
domplulensian  edition  follows  the  Hebrew  hy  giving 'A;if<p«s,  which  is 
only  ha  heres ;  and  the  version  of  Symmachua  after  ttoKk  reads  t^ou. 
TheD  the  literal  rendering  will  be,  "one  city  shall  he  called  the  ciiv 
□f  the  Sun,"  or  On;  and  as  this  lust  word  sDnietimes  means  nan- 
existinff,  or  nothing,  "  deetruclion  "  appear^  to  be  CDirecL  Id 
Joshua  xii.  41.  the  Latin  from  the  Arabic  text,  instead  of  Ur!» 
Seme?,  givea  "fans  Semes,"  r  e.  Bir-semee,  as  if  the  Hebrew  was 
Bwr-seinCH,  "  the  well  of  the  Sun  ;"  and  in  Isnlah  xxn.  18  the  sanae 
has  "  urbe  Am-aetiit^a,"  or  the  "  city  of  the /ounfai'ti  of  the  sun." 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


307 


I 
I 

I 


Ionian  Belns  was  Jupiter  ^Zevs  BriKos,  as  he  Btyles  that 
deity;  and  Nonnus  (Dionysiac.  iii.  291)  writes — 

that  the  Libyan  Jupiter  was  Belus.  So,  by  the  same 
poet  {Dionys.  40),  Jupiter  is  accounted  the  Sun. 

Likewise,  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  Orpheus,  or  the 
author  of  the  Orphic  poems,  considers  that  Jupiter,  or 
Zeus,  was  the  smne  as  the  Sun,  or  Hdius.  Thus,  he 
begins  his  hymn  to  Ilehus  by  invoking  him  as  Ttrdv 
Xpvaavyrjsj  and  then,  in  verse  13,  he  calls  him — 

.    .    .   aBavart  Ztv 
EvSu  va}i.<fta^.  ... 

And,  according  to  Macrobius  (Saturn,  i.  23),  Jupiter 
was  identical  with  Sol,  or  the  Sun ;  and  that  Sol, 
"under  the  name  o{  Jupiter"  was  the  god  whom  the 
Syrians  worshipped  Ju  Heliopolis.  These  are  the 
words  of  Macrobius: — "Nee  ipse  Jupiter,  rex  deO' 
rum,  SolU  nalurain  vjdeturexcedere;  sed  eumde^n  esse 
Jovem  ac  iS'ofcm  Claris  docetur  indiciis."  "  Syrii  quo- 
que  Solent,  sub  nomine  Joi-is,  ,  .  .  celebrant  in  civi- 
tate  qute  Heliopolis  niincupatur." 

The  last  great  |jod,  or  *'  Magnus  Deus  HeJiopoli- 
tanus,"  was  Apollo,  who  was  one  and  the  same  with 
the  Solar  deity. 

This  being  so  well  known,  1  need  only  state  a  few 
authorities  in  support  of  their  identity. 

Ovid  styles  Apollo  sometimes  Sol  and  sometimes 
Phcebus.  See  Metamorphoses,  book  i.  ver  751-2,  and 
book  ii.  vv.  32-35,  36.  And  Callimachus,  in  his 
'  Hymn  to  Apollo,'  terms  that  god  indifferently,  ^ol^os 
and  'AtroKXatv.^^ 

"  Uoth  Homer  and  Heaiod  call  Apollo  "tocyJo? 'AirdXA^jv,  'Hyma 
to  Apollo/  vv.  52,  201,  254,  etc. ;  acid  Hesiod,  in  /ra^mento,  y.  98. 
See  jw«/,  p.  &9, 


308 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


Paiisanias  caUs  Apolio,  the  Sun,  or  Helms  ;  and  he 
adds,  that  not  only  were  the  Phoenicians,  but  also  the 
Greeks  of  the  same  opinion  : — '^7ro\Xaji/a  Si  "HXtop  .  .  . 
eyat  &e  atToBe^feerBat  fiev  ra  eipij/iei/a,  ovBev  Se  ti  ^otvixav 
/iaWof  ^  Koi  'EWrfvoe  elvai  rov  Xoyov  e^v."" 

The  following  lines  of  Orpheus  quoted  by  Joannes 
Malalas  (Chronogr.  lib.  iv.)  testify  the  same  thing: — 

'n  5va,  Atpovs  ull  iKonj^okt,  ^oijSe  Kparau, 
-HAls. 

Macrobius  also  asserts  the  same;  writing  of  the 
Temple  at  Heliopolis,  he  adds,  "  Hujus  templi  religio 
etiam  dwJnutione  praepoUet,  quae  ad  ApoUinis  potesta* 
tem  refertur,  qui  idem  atque  Sol  est."-- 

And  this  last  author,  as  I  have  just  before  shown, 
has  stated  that  Jupiter  and  the  Sun  were  the  aamf 
deities  J  consequently,  Jupiter  and  Apollo  were  idcD- 
lical,  and  both  were  the  same  with  Phcebus,  Sol^  or 
Helms.  So,  again,  Macrobius  relates  (i.  '21),  "  Ham- 
monem,  quem  deum  Sokm  occidentera  Libyes  extstl- 
mant,  affietinis  cornibus  flngunt,  quibus  maxime  id 
animal  valet,  sicut  Sol  radiis." 

And  Herodian,  mentioning  the  oracles  of  a  local 
god    called  Belis,^    says,   he    was   considered    to   k 

**  FsuBanioft,  Grsec.  Descr.  Uh.  vii.  cap.  23,  ».  6. 

''  So  Orpheuft,  in  his  Hymn  7,  to  the  Sun,  HeVuu,  begios — 

Aad  NoiBHUa  (DionyaiBc.  lib.  ix.  ver.  276J  calls  Apollo,  like  the  SuP. 
'all-seeing,'  AiroAAuifa  Travu^io)'. 

^  Maetvb.  Saturn,  lib.  i.  cap.  23.  He  there  says  that  the  Jini- 
peror  Trajan,  jusE  before  he  left  that  province  (Syria)  for  Parthia. 
(\,a.  115)  with  hia  army,  consulted  the  oruc/f  of  the  5un  at  Heliopolis. 

^  BiXiv  hi  KoXovtrt  tdijtoi',  ai^oval  «  vTrtpt^vuKt  'A7r6k\wva  cittM 
cdAaiTcs.-^HerodkanL  tii»t.  Lb.  viii.  cap.  7. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES   OF    BAALSEC. 


309 


I 


I 


ApoUo ;  this  Belts  was  probably  only  another  varia- 
tion of  Bdus,  Bel,  or  Baal.-'  This  occurred  about 
A.D.  236, 

I  will  also  cite  the  following  passage  from  the  Greek 
text  of  the  inscription  on  the  Rosetta  stone,  in  order 
to  show  how  Jupiter's  and  the  San's  names  were  apso- 
ciated  by  the  ancient  Egyptian  priests : — ^^^2  6  "HXtos 
EOtvcei'  TTfv  viKifv'  elxouos'  fuKnjr  rov  Au>s,  vlov  tou  'HKmv, 
UroKefiatov,  auopo^iou,  rffairrffiivov   viro  rov  0$a.'        ThiS 

monument,  now  in  the  Briti&h  Museum,  sets  forth, 
as  is  well  known,  in  three  languages,  a  decree  in 
honour  of"  Ptolemy  V.,  surnamed  Epiphanes,  by  the 
high  priests,  who  were  assembled  at  Meniphis»  upon 
the  occasion  of  hia  coronation  as  king^  about  the 
year  19G  b.c.  Some  have  thought  that  a  temple  of 
the  Sun  {Helivs,  or  Re]  then  existed  in  Memphis  ;  and 
that  the  local  name  of  Pkre,  or  Pkrah,  meaning  the 
Sun,  was  in  use  with  the  inhabitants  of  that  city. 
And  much  the  same  formula  has  been  noticed,  as  ap- 
plied to  Rameses,  on  the  obelisk  of  Hermapion  ;  it 

runs    thus; HXiov    iralf    aia>po0Los,    ov    HXtos  ifttXfl,  uiro 

As  I  have  already  proved  the  identity  of  Jupiter 
with  Baal^  or  Be/?i.s-,  so  it  follows  that  Apotlo,  or  the 
Sun,  was  likewise  identical  with  the  same  Fhoeoiciaa 
deity. 

Hence  it  will  appear,  that  for  tlie  purposes  of  the 

"  Servias,  who  wrote  about  a.d.  420,  saya.  on  the  word  SeluSt 
Virgil,  ^n.  \,  733,  "  LinguS  Punicfi  Bal  deuB.  apud  Asayrios  aiitem 
Bel,  dicitur;  quadam  socrorura  ratione  et  SatumuB,  et  Sol."  And 
he  had  before  observed,  "  pam  omiies  ia  iliis  partibus  (Ae?yriw) 
Soiem  colunt." — Comaient^  in  Virg. 

^  Vide  luscrip.  Grec.  is  Rosette,  par  M.  Letronne,  pp.  I,  8. 


310 


ON   THE    SUPPOSED 


Siun-worskip,  all  these  "Great  Gods"— Baal,  B61, 
Belus,  Belis,  Zeus,  Jupiter,  Apollo,  Phoebus,  Sol,  and 
Helius — were  equally  held  to  be,  in  certain  of  their 
characters,  one  and  the  same,  namely,  the  glorious 
Sun,  the  highly  adored  Divinity  of  HeL'opolis — the 
Sun-city,  On,  or  Aun,  Baalath,  or  Baalbec. 

Lastly,  on  the  subject  o(  HeUosebeiUf-^  that  Js  to  say, 
the  Heliacal  or  Solar  adoration,  or  Sun-worship^  I  will 
make  a  few  remarks. 

This  most  natural  and  primeval  worship  of  the 
glorious  orb  of  day,  as  the  Great  Deity  of  the  world, 
has  existed  among  the  most  ancient  nations,  espe- 
cially the  Shemitic  tribes,  from  a  moat  early  period; 
to  it  the  first  of  known  authors,  the  patriarch  Job, 
evidently  alludes,  aboat  B.C.  1520^  in  these  words  : — 
"  If  I  beheld  the  Sun  when  it  shined,  or  the  moon 
walking  in  brightness  ;  and  my  heart  hath  been  secretly 
enticed,  or  my  mouth  hath  kissed  my  hand,  ...  I 
should  have  denied  the  God  that  is  above."-' 

In  the  fifteenth  cenlury  before  Christ  (about  b.c. 
1451),  Moses  forbade  the  Israelites,  lest  they  lift  their 
eyes  unto  heaven,  and  when  they  see  the  Sun,  and  the 
moon,  and  the  stars,  even  all  the  host  of  heaven,  they 
should  worship  them  and  serve  them.     And  again,  lie 

^  Heliosebeia  I  have  formed  like  Otorrt^tui,  Dei  ru/fu*.  a  word  used 
in  the  Scptuagijit  in. lob  xxviii.  23.  'HXuKri^eta,  Soiis  cah\iB,titeTB- 
fore,  means  Suit-KifrsMp. 

^'  Job  ixxi,  26-28.  "  Kissing  the  hand"  is  one  of  the  earlieit 
forms  of  adoration  ;  it  ia  mentioned  by  Lucian  aa  practised  by  the 
Greeks  wb en  worehipping  the  Sun.  (P&rkhurst.)  So  Lucretius  (De 
Iter.  Nat.)  lib.  v.  ver.  1200)  :— 

"  Pandere  palmas 
Ante  Defim  delubrn." 
Apuleius  {Apolo^a)  explains  it  better,  thus : — "  Nam  ut  audio  partini 


SCaiPTUEAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


311 


I 
I 


expressly  commands  Ihem,  when  they  are  come  into 
the  land  which  the  Lord  giveth  them,  they  shall  not 
leam  to  do  after  the  abominntions  of  those  nations.''' 
These  were  the  "  abominations,"  or  the  aboniJDable 
worshippingSs  which  were  practised  by  the  earty  natious 
in  Canaan,  whose  territories  they  were  to  po&sess ; 
that  is  to  say.  the  worship  of  Baal,  or  the  <Sun,  and 
heavenly  bodies,  as  well  as  that  of  Molech,  And  we 
are  told,  that  "  for  those  abominations  the  Lord  drove  " 
those  nations  out  of  that  promised  land.  Thus  it 
would  appear,  that  these  abominable  adorations  had 
been  common  in  that  country  long  before  the  period 
(b.c.  1451)  here  alluded  to  ;  and  not  in  Canaan  alone, 
but  certainly  in  Pbcenicia,  and  the  adjoining  districts. 

Next,  we  find  it  recorded  in  Judges  ii.  H-14,  that 
the  children  of  Israel,  about  B.C.  14U6,  had  actually 
transgressed"^  the  command  of  Moses,  and  "served 
Baalm"—the  Baals,  or  idols  of  Baal ;  and  that  they 
had  forsaken  *'  Ihe  Lord  God  of  their  fathers,  and 
served  Baal,"  which  was  the  Sun. 

Then  the  ancient  Phceuician  writer,  Sanchoniathon, 
probably  in  the  twelfth  century  before  our  era,  confirms 
the  statement  that  his  countrymen  esteemed  the  Sun 
to  be  the  soU  celestial  God;  on  him,  as  has  been  ob- 
servedj  they  bestowed  the  lofry  title  of  Belsamen,  *  Lord 
of  the  Heavens,'  and  of  course  to  him  they  eacnticed, 
burnt  incense,  and  offered  prayers. 


CEensiuto,  qui  istum  novere,  nulli  Deo  nd  hdc  ffivi  aupplicflvit,  nallum 
templum  f]"equentavit:  si  fanum  atiquod  prrerereat,  ne fas  "habet,  ofll- 
oran4i  gratia  mnnum  tabris  admovere."     And  Piiny  (Nat,  Hiat.  28, 
2),  "in  adoramdo  dexternin  ad  osculum  refcrimua," 
Deut.  iv.  9,  xviii.  9-14. 
*  And  again  aa  recorded  va  2  Kings  ivii.  10,  11,  16. 
VOL.  vir.  Y 


312 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


But  by  the  eighth  and  seventh  centuries  before  Christ, 
the  Sun-ioorship  had  become  more  generally  extended 
from  Baal,  IJelius,  or  the  Sun,^'^ — "to  the  moon,  and, 
to  the  planets,  and  to  all  the  host  of  heaven."  And 
probably  with  tlie  view  of  attaining  as  near  to  these 
celestial  bodies  as  they  could,  they  "burnt  incense  in 
the  hifjh  places  ;"^'  so  that  the  perfumes  arising  from 
it,  as  well  as  the  odours  from  the  burnt  ofTenngs  and 
sacrifices  which  they  were  accustomed  to  ofTer  upon 
their  altars,  might  not  be  prevented  from  ascending: 
with  greater  acceptation,  and  without  the  hindrance  of 
the  lower  atmosphere  and  other  vapours,  to  all  the 
heavenly  host.  These  nations  were  thus  early  wont  to 
build  their  shrines  and  altars  "  on  high  places,"  aad 
even  "  upon  the  roofs  oi'  hauses."^^ 

For  the  same  reason,  the  early  Greeks  used  to  sacri- 
fice to  Zeus,  or  Jupiter, — who,  as  it  has  been  proved, 
was  equally  accounted  theSuu,  Jfe^i'us,  or  Baal, — upOD 
the  top  of  a  hill  or  mountaia. 

**  2  KingB  svii.  \G,  and  xxHi.  5. 

"  Hosea  also  saya  (iv.  1 3),  "  They  eacrifice  upon  the  top*  oi  tbc 
mountains,  and  bum  incense  upon  the  hills." 

^*  Jeremiah  xa.  5,  !3,  and  xxx'iL  '23,  35.  t  have  pre^ioaslv  notMwd 
the  remains  of  a  temple,  which  was  discovered  by  Mr.  PorlcTtoa 
the  summit  of  Baal-hermon,  and  this  is  thua  csQ^rmed  by  a  b^!' 
(£.  A.  Beaufort)  who  has  recently  (1859)  aecended  to  the  sv" 
ftpot : — "  A  missive  wall  once  encircled  the  hig-hesipeak  of  the  mouO" 
tain  {ffermon),  and  a  temple  stood  here ;  the  ground  iB  covered  1'''^ 
the  largt  hewn  stones  of  the  outer  wall ;  a  few  of  them  were  bevelledi 
and  we  saw  eome  bold,  slmpLe  sculpturing  on  gome  of  the  otlicrs- 
!No  ODC  could  gtaod  on  that  summit  aud  turn  his  eyts  fro>° 
eut  to  west,  from  north  to  eouth,  without  feeling  that  no  wo'' 
xhippera  of  the  Svn  could  have  left  so  grand  u  spot  UDConaecraletJ '" 
their  god."  See  '  Egyptian  Sepulchres  and  Svrian  Shrines,'  vol-  "i- 
p.  14. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES   OF    BAALBEC. 


313 


I 


Thus  Sophocles  (in  Trachin.  v.  1207)  has — 

OTtT^  aw  Tov  OiTiji  ZfjVBi  v\j/urTQv  irdyov ; 
OK",  in  OvTTjp  y«  jToAAi  S^  <rro.&tt^  awu.-** 

Again,  the  same  poet  had  previously  mentioned  the 
hi^h  promontory  of  Cenaeuin  as  celebi'ated  for  the  same 
purpose  (v.  765} : — 

l&.rjyawv  ifrnv,  h'da,  iraTpifiu  Au 

Also,  on  the  lofty  summit  of  Olympus^  as  well  as  on 
Gargarus,  the  highest  portion  of  Mount  Ida,  were 
shrines  and  altars,  sacred  to  Jupiter  : 

Jupiter  is  termed  Hypststus,  or  Zew  v^tcnos,  from 
being  worshipped,  Hke  Baal,  on  the  tops  of  mountains ; 
and  Homer  terms  him,  for  the  like  reason,  KpovtSift 

But  the  most  ancient  temple  of  Jupiter  was  at  the 
iofty  Dodona,  in  Epirus,  which  was  of  Pelasgic  origin  ; 

According  to  ^schylus,^"  this  town  was  placed  on  a 
high  mountain,  which  some  account  as  Mons  Tomarus, 
or  Tmarua ;  thus  he  speaks  of  It  - — 

Tf/f  atirvi'u»r-il»'  t  d^i^c  Aw&oivijv,  iva, 
Mtuntia  dcuKof  r  ccm  8seniptDTOv  /^io$. 

**  Matmt  CEla,  we  know,  wan  especially  ao  frequented  ;  and,  bc- 
cording  to  Strabo,  lib.  \x.  cap.  4,  it  WHa  opo;  rpa.^'  koL  inf^ifXay. 

"  Horn.  0.  vUi.  4S. 

"*  Hesiodi    Fragment,  v.  47  ;   and  see  Strabo,  Geogr.  lib.  vii.  cap. 
7,  B.  10.  and  «.  11,  who  calls  the  oracle.  TltXaayaiv  i&pvfxa. 

»"  jEaehyl.  Prom.  Vinct.  v.  830;    and  see  Pliny,  Nat.  Hist,  lib. 
iv.  cap.  1. 

Y    2 


314 


ON    THE    SUPPOSEp 


And  Horner^'  calls  Dodona  very  cold  or  stormy,  tbat  is, 

from  its  high  position : — 

Ztv  aya,  iiuSnuvaLtj  TlfXairyiKi,  n^Xofli  vaiuiy, 
^M&MH]^  fuSiiav  Svcr\ttfitpov. 

So  with  ttie  Latins,  in  very  early  days,  there  was  on 
Mons  Athanus,  the  highest  peak  of  the  Alban  Hills, 
east  of  Rome,  a  most  auclent  temple  sacred  to  Jupiter. 
Some  old  walls  aud  other  remains  of  it  are  still  to  be 
seen  near  Racca  dl  Papa.  Lucan'^^  describes  Jupiter 
as — 

"  Et  re&idet}s  cfifff  Latijilis  Jupiter  Albd." 

And  we  know  that  the  sacrifices  and  offering  to 
deity,  at  the  annual  ferine  l,atmas,   lasted  for  several 
days.^" 

But  this  early  worship  of  Jupiter  upon  Mount  Ai- 
banus  was  most  probably  introduced  from  Dodona,*' 
or  at  all  events  by  the  Pelasgians.  For  a  colony  of 
this  race  is  related  to  have  arrived  from  Epirus  into 
Italy,  and  expressly  by  Pliny  into  Latium*^  Autiquuto, 
and  he  enumerates  the  Pclasgi  as  being  the  Jirst  colo- 
nists after  those  he  terms  ''  Aborigines." 

In  like  manner  Phabus,  or  Apollo,  was  also  vene- 
rated in  high  plates,  or  eminences ;  and  indeed,  he  is 
narrated  to  have  been  even  born  upon  a  great  mountain 
— ^the  well-known  Mount  Cy/tthus,  in  the  island  of 
l>elos. 

■J  II,  xvl  234, 

a**  Pliaraftl.  lib.  i.  ver.  198. 

**  Vide  Livii  Hiet.  lib.  xxi.  cap.  63;  and  Sueton.  in  Vit.  Clai. 
cap.  4. 

^  See,  aa  to  the  Pelasgi  in  Dodooa.  Herodotus,  lib,  ii-  cap.  53. 

*'  Vide  Plin.  Nat.  Hist,  lib,  iii.  cap.  9,  "  Colonls  ewpe  mut»tis. 
t«Diiere  alii  alii*  tempDribut,  Aborigtaes,  Pelasgi,"  etc. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMBS    OP   BAALBBC, 


315 


I 
I 


Homer,  in  his  hymn  to  that  god  (v.  17),  describes 

it  thus: — 

.  .  .  Kfiavatf.  hi  AiJX^, 

And  there  was  situated  for  a  long  period  a  celebrated 
temple  to  Apollo  Cynthius-  And  Heniad,*'^  calling 
the  deity  both  Phwbus  and  Apollo,  thus  sings : — 

'Ev  &TjK(p  Tftr*  Trpiuros  ^yu>  (cat'O^ijipo?  liotSol 
McX.iro/tn',  iv  vtofioK  vfivoK  paif/aVTf^  aoio^, 

^ai/SoV  *Air«X\tuva  ^VITaapOV,  OV  TCkC  A.YJTb). 

I  need  not,  however,  investigate  tliis  part  of  the  in- 
quiry any  furtlier;  nor  need  I  mention  the  snow- 
covered  mountain  Parnassus  {Ilapi^crov  vt^mema)  or  the 
highly  placed  Delphi,  where  was  the  peculiar  and  most 
famed  sanctuary  of  the  God  of  Day. 

I  will  oiily  remark  that  the  Prophet  Ezekiel  speaks 
(viii.  16)»  about  b.c.  594,  of  having;  seen  in  his  vision, 
men,  even  in  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  "  with  their  backs 
toward  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  and  their  faces  toward 
the  east ;  and  they  worshipped  the  Sun  towards  the 
east."  And  King  Josiah,  thirty  years  before,  as  it  is 
written  in  2  Kings  xxiii,  11,  'Mook  away  the  horses 
that  the  Kings  of  Judah  had  given  to  the  Sun,  at  the 
entering  in  of  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  burned  the 
chariots  of  the  Sun  witli  fire." 

Having  thus  shown  the  prevalence,  from  a  most 
early  period,  of  Heliosebeia,  or  the  worship  of  the 
S«H,  in  Palestine,  as  related  in  the  Biblical  narratives 
to  which  I  have  referi'ed,  1  will  now  shortly  allude  to 
it  in  connection  with  some  accounts  mentioned  by 
pagan  classical  writers. 

From  what  I  have  already  written,  it  will  be  seen 

**  Hesiodi  Fragmenta,  v.  96,  edit.  Robinson,  Oxon.  1737. 


316 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


that  many  of  the  Roman  Emperors,  and  their  part- 
ners on  the  throne,  were  Helioseheians,  or  worshippers 
of  the  Sutif  either  under  that  direct  appellation — some 
having  even  been  "  sacerdotes  Dei  Soils" — or  under 
the  name  of  Jupiter  or  Apollo.  This  adoration,  of  the 
great  orb  of  day  became,  in  all  likelihood,  more  ex- 
tended among  the  Romans  of  the  higher  class,  as  well 
as  amongst  the  soldiers,  after  they  had  gubdued  and 
colonized  Syria,  Palestine,  and  Egypt. 

On  the  death  of  Julius  Cjesar,  44  b.c.j  a  hairy  star, 
or  comet,  became  visible  for  seven  successive  days, 
and  it  waa  thought  to  be  "  anlmam  Cpesaris  in  ctrlum 
recepti ;''  and  for  this  reason,  adds  Suetonius  (lib.  i.  c. 
88),  "  simuLacro  ejus  in  vertice  additur  ttella.''  This 
star  is  seen  in  the  field  of  a  coin  of  Julius  Ctesar, 
mentioned  by  Admiral  Smyth  (Cat.  No.  2,  p.  3),  and 
which  he  thinks  was  minted  in  b.c.  43.  The  obverse 
has  the  legend  '*  Divos  Julius." 

Thus  Horace — 

^'Mie$t  inter  oiiiTiea 
Julium  Mdui,  vdut  inter  ignes 
Luna  minoreB." 

Jupiter^  as  the  Sun,  reigns  supreme,  but  JuHus 
star,  like  the  moon,  rules  the  second  among  the  celestial 
orbs.  These  lines  may  bear  an  allusion  to  the  wor- 
ship of  'Uhe  sun,  the  moon,  the  planets,  and  all  the 
host  of  heaven."  And  from  this  supposed  reception 
of  the  sout  oi  Julius  into  the  heavens,  as  one  of  the 
shining  orbs  of  the  sky,  a  fresh  and  a  greater  degree  of 
veneration  might  have  arisen  in  that  ancient  and  pecu- 
liar worship  among  the  Roman  people.  And  in  fact 
it  was,  strictly  speaking,  only  improving  and  enlarging 
Astrosebeia,  'astral  worship,'  in  connection  with  the  ori- 


BCB1PTIIR.AL    NAMES    OF    BAALBBC. 


317 


I 

I 

I 


ginal  and  more  universal  adoration  of  the  Sun;  it  is 
therefore  certainly  unnecessary  to  consider  it  apart  from 
Heliosebeia,  it  being  a  mere  branch  of  that  worship.*^ 
In  observing  on  this  view  of  Astral  adoration 
Philo  Judifius,  about  eighty  years  afterwards,  writes 
that  stars  were  accounted  by  some  to  have  *'  hfe  and 
mind  ;"  and  again  that  "  they  were  (;ro^s," — rovs  a/rrtpas 
6eo\)9  etvat, — and  had  '*  godlike  and  divine  natures," 

Betas  rf  Satftoviat  cftvaeis.'^ 

St.  Augustine  Hkevvise  stales,  that  the  opinion  was 
held  that  a  star  was  a  part  of,  or  an  emanation  from 
Jupiter,  or  Sol;  and  that  it  was  not  inanimate,  but  a 
living  being,  endued  with  a  rational  and  divine  spirit."^ 

Again,  Philo  Judseus  says  of  the  Sun  and  other 
celestial  bodies,  that  they  were  independent  deities;™ 

Tivis  ^XtOi*   <a\    aeXriu^v  &e  rour   oXA-Offf    dcrre'pas    vTreXaffou 
€ivai    Beovs,  avTOKparopas ,  on  rat   tcw  yivofievtav  ihraVTiav 

Soj  a  fragment  of  Sophocles,  relating  to  Hdms,  adds: 

Or  01  rroijufi.  Xfyowfi  vo'ftjttji'  0*iuj', 
Kai  irartpa  Tramiiv. 

The  like  opinion  is  given  by  Macrobius*"^  in  these 

*^  Even  on  the  coins  of  Elaga!)a]ua,  the  Roman  Emperor,  are  seen 
B  star  uuid  jmlm-branch — both  emblema  of  .Sun'WorEhip.  Some  term 
that  sovereign  Heliogabalus,  from  his  having  been,  at  an  early  period 
of  his  life,  &  priffi  of  ibe  Sw-ifod  at  Emesaj  north  of  Baalbec, 

**  Philoii  Jud.  De  Siomn.,  De  Mund.  Incor.  pp.  501,  i)5I.  See  also 
Plato,  De  Legibua  lib,  vli. ;  EpinomiB,  p.  984,  and  Timceua^  p.  40. 

■**  St,  Augustine,  De  Civ.  Dei.  lib.  iv,  cap,  II.  And  the  e&me 
writer  add?  that  the  Priacilhunists  held,  "  Solen],  et  Lunam,  et 
Stellas,  non  dementarioB  fulgore&,  aed  ratiwaleg  poifsiales,"  (De 
Error.  Priaciil.  cap.  3.) 

*■  Philon.  Jud.  De  Monarch,  lib.  i.  cap.  i. 

*'  Saturo,  Wh.  i.  cap.  23. 


318 


ON   THE    SUPPOSED 


words ; — "  Potenliam  Soils  ad  omnium  potestatum 
suDiinitatein  relerrl  indicant  theologi ;  qui  in  sacris 
hoc  brevissima  precatione  demonstrant,  dicentes,''H>u* 

iraVTOKpuTOp,  KQa-flQV  TTVeVfia,   KlitTfiOV  hvvafUSy   KOtTfiOV    (fiat. 

Solent  esse  omnia  et  Orpheus  testatur  his  versibus ;— - 

-j—  'HXm  irayyeveTap,  iravatoXe,  ;y)i«rEei^eyy»'s." 

And  Menander'^"  inculcates  much  the  same,  thus, — 

'HAic,  ire  yap  8cZ  irptMinjirfiv  i!-p<orov  dcujv, 
Ai  oy  otu>pt*v  ivTi  tow  ixAXovf  ceous. 

Tn  tracing  very  shortly  the  progress  of  HeUosebeia 
among  the  Roman  Emperors,  I  will  not  take  them  ail 
in  their  order,  but  I  will  point  out  a  few  more  in  addi- 
tion to  those  whom  I  have  previously  mentioned. 

After  Julius  CtEsar,  and  his  supposed  connection 
with  the  "Julium  Sidus,"  I  will  name  Augustus,  who 
was  evidently  a  worshipp&r  of  Apollo,  or  the  Sun; 
and  this  fact  is  known  from  several  sources. 

On  the  obelisk,^"  which  that  emperor  is  recorded 
to  have  brought  from  On,  or  Heliopolis^  in  Egypt,  and 
now  standing  in  the  Piazza  del  Popolo  at  Rome,  the 
inscription  retains  its  dedication  to  the  Sun,  and  gets 
forth  as  follows  :  — 

"AuqusUs  .  .  .  (Imp.XII.Cos.XI.  T.Pol.  XIV,) 
jEgypto  in  potestatem  Populi  Romaui  redacta  Soii 
donum  dedit." 

**  So  Orpheaa  {Hymn  7,  v.  IS),  calls  the  Sun,  Cutt?  ■^w;  andsttm^SJ 
derive  ^oiffo^  (Jpollo)  from  *p{i>i  fiiov;  whilst  others  say  it  meirf"^^ 
sig^EiiGea  bright  or  shiniaff;—~ 

Sra^cvTO?  S'  TjKiov  ^()3^  ^oyc. 
C,^ch.  Prom.  Vinct.  22,) 

■*  Apud  Ciemest.  C«hoTt.  ad  Gentes,  p.  59. 

*•  See  Plin.  Nat.  iiiat.  lib.  xixvi,  cap.  29,  and  Aroraiaii.  M 
lib.  xvii. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


319 


This  date  agrees  with  the  year  8  B.C.,  and  twenty- 
one  years  after  the  reduction  of  Egypt  into  a  Roman 
province.  The  obelisk  had  originally  been  placed  in 
the  Circus,  because  the  Circensian  Games  were  dedi- 
cated to  the  Sun  : — 

"Salts  hoaure  novj  gjati  spectacola  Cird." 

Admiral  Smyth  (p,  G,  no.  vi,)  describes  a  coin  of 
Augustus,  whose  head  on  the  obverse  had  a  "beard- 
less Apollinean  aspect."  Also  others  (nos.  viii.  and  ix.) 
have  the  same  emperor's  head  surrounded  with  rays 
— thereby  siyinifying  the  Sun's  rays: — 

"Cra  tempora  circutn 
Aiirati  bis  seic  radii  fiilgentiD.  ciDguat^ 
Sofia  avi  BpecitflCQ,"*^ 

And   the  Emperor  Julian,  in  his  '  Caesars,'  distinctly 
remarks  that  "Octaviauus  resorted  to  Apollo" — o  ^»' 

OKTaQiavQS  ^Bti  irpot  rov  AiroKKova. 

1  believe  ho /'woyc  of  Bart/ htis  been  discovered  in  the 
ruins  of  his  numerous  shrines.  But  Dr.  Robinson  (Later 
Res.  p.  436),  describing  the  remain&  of  a  very  aU' 
cient  temple  at  Rakhleh^  near  the  Antilebanon^  speaks 
€>f  a  finely  carved  human  face  in  bold  relief,  on  a 
"block  of  stone,  near  the  south  wall  of  the  temple.  He 
eays,  "  At  the  first  glance  it  seemed  as  if  intended  for 
fehe  Sun,  but  the  border  does  not  represent  rays.  It 
"niay  iiave  been  a  Baal  worshipped  in  the  temple." 

Tacitus^^  has  recorded  that  the  soldiers  of  the  third 
legion  "  orientem  Soltm  (ita  in  S^ria  mos  est)  salu- 
lavere  ;'*  this  transpired  in  a.d,  69.  Tlie  sauie  circum- 
stance appears  to  be  that  mentioned  by  Dion.  Caesius, 

*1  Virgil.  ^Kn.  xii.  U}2. 
^  Hint.  lib.  iii.  cap.  24. 


320 


ON    THE    9UPF0SBD 


and  referred  to  the  year  "  Galb.  II.  et  Vinio,  Coss." 
— which  answers  to  a.u.c.  822. 

The  Boldiers,  whom  Tacitus  merely  calls  "Tertiani," 
were  those  of  the  third  legion,  named  Gallica^  and 
which  had  wintered  in  Syria.  The  historian  Dion  adds," 

eTTparoTreBau  tou  raXariKov  KoXovftenOv,  kcu  ep  tjj  Svpin 
yetfut^oDTOs^,  and  he  then  says,  ctatraaafuvav  avTov  e^anfunft 
wrntep  eldBeaav,  they  saluted  him  as  they  were  woaL 

About  A.D.  274,  the  Emperor  Aurelian  had  erected 
a  splendid  temple  to  the  iSun  on  the  Quirinal.  This 
was  the  year  after  his  destruction  of  Palmyra  and 
triumph  over  the  celebrated  Zenobia.  In  that  temple, 
Gibbon^*  writes,  "  he  placed  the  images  of  JSelus 
(Baal)  and  of  the  Sun,  which  he  had  brought  from  Pal- 
myra. His  mother  had  been  an  inferior  priestess  in  a 
chapel  of  the  Sun;  and  his  devotion  to  that  deity  ap- 
pears in  his  letters,  and  on  his  medals." 

The  same  divinity  was  the  "  invincible  guide  and  pro- 
tector "  of  the  Emperor  Constantine,  before  the  year  of 
ourLord  331,  when  he  commanded  the  heathen  temples 
to  be  closed  J  and  our  great  historian  tells  us,  that  the 
"  devotion  of  Constantine  was  more  peculiarly  directed 
to  the  genius  of  the  Suji,  the  Apollo  of  Greek  and  Ro- 
man mythology;  and  he  was  pleased  to  be  represented 
with  the  symbols  of  the  God  of  Light  and  Poetry,'"" 

Indeed,  ten  years  before  (a.o,  321)  Constantine 
ordered  the  strict  observance  of  Sunday,  calling  it  then 
after  his  patron  god,  SoUs  dies;  and  he  moreover 
placed  upon  his  coins  the  legend,  "  Sol  Invictus." 
The  Emperor  Julian's  early  Christianity,  which  is  ad- 

*■  Dionia  Hiat.  Rom.  vol.  ii.  tlb.  65,  cap.  14. 

**  Itiat.  chap.  xi.  •*  Gibbon^  Hiat.  chap.  n. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMES    OP    BAaLBEC. 


initted  to  have  been  partly  feigned/"  must  have  been 
always  mixed  with  piiganism,  or  at  all  events  with 
Heliosebeia  ;  for  he  expressly  calls  himselt'an  "  atten- 
dant on  the  Sovereign  Sun.'"^^  And  he  says,  "From 
his  childhood,  there  was  innate  in  him  a  vehement 
desire  of  the  rays  of  that  God.  And  that  the  ethereal 
light  so  wholly  bewitched  his  mind,  even  when  a  little 
boy,  that  he  not  only  tried  to  look  intently  npon  it, 
but  frequently  went  out  at  night,  when  the  firmament 
was  cloudless  and  serene,  and  surveyed  with  such 
intense  admiration  the  celestial  splendours,  that  at 
once  abandoning  everything,  he  was  no  longer  con- 
scious if  any  person  spoke  to  him,  nor  was  he  mind- 
ing what  occurred  to  himself."  And  further,  that  he 
"  recognized  the  Sun,  with  perfect  hope,  to  be  his  God 
and  propitious  guide."  ^^ 

Hence  it  will  be  seen  that  the  term  of  "  Apostate," 
so  lavishly  bestowed  on  him  by  the  Christian  eccle- 
siastical writers,  could  hardly  have  been  strictly  appli- 
cable, because  he  could  never  have  been  a  sincere 
Christian,  in  whom  so  intense  an  adoration  of  the  Sun, 
as  a  sovereiyn  or  deity,  existed  from  his  earliest  years,''" 

*•  Vide  Sot:ratt3  Hist.  Ecclea.  lib.  iii.  cap.  U 

•^  Juliani    '  Ilymiius  in  Regeni  Bolera '    ('TT^vtn  ti?  tov  Ba<nX/a 

"HAiov).   Kai  y'lp  tlfu  rav  /SucriAtws  wrnSis  'UAi'ou.  .  .  .  'EiTtrrjKC  jxoi, 

ro  aSBtfUov  ix  ircuSofJuxu  kdj^($^  tf^  Siavomv  i^vrrvntfV  w  r%.  oi^k  els 

avTOV  ifiWor  aretH  opav  W^Bv^i-wv'  uAXa  kqi  ('uot*  la'imujp  at'e«^EA.qu  xal 

tijfiiv  («iAA«rr  koI  ovKiritwifK  »uSev  «'  rt?  Acyotri  irp(J5/if,  ouree^niTii 

5  w  wpaTTOi  jxonipocrf}(uiv. — JtiUnni  Tmpfralorls  Optra.     Paris,  158i3. 

**  McTQ  7^4   ayaBifi  iXviio^f  Tytitavs.  Qcur  cfiy/ev^' — -Juliani  Imp, 

*"  Socrates  says  of  Julian,  thai  Ike  X/ittmuvos  yip  ^f  sf  •V'JCT*-"'' 


322 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


and    which    continued  to  his  latest  period  of  exist- 
ence. 

This  enlightened  and  distinguished  man,  whose  mind 
was,  in  literature  at  least,  highly  cultivated,  present! 
a  most  remarkable  example  of  one,  who  was  at  the 
same  time  blind  to  the  beauty  and  excellence  of  the 
Gospel  tenets,  and  to  the  Ught  promised  to  those  who 
faithfully  followed  them.  And  indeed,  it  is  scarcely 
to  be  believed  that  one  of  such  intelligence,  who  lived 
more  than  three  and  a  half  centuries  after  the  birth  of 
the  True  Light,  should  have  persisted  in  following  the 
worship  of  the  mere  Light  of  Day^  the  very  splendid 
Created  Light,  in  preference  to  its  more  Lutuioous 
and  Glorious  Creator — the  One  Light  that  shineth  ef- 
fectually, even  to  those  that  "  sit  in  darkness  and  in 
the  shadow  of  death," 

But  Heliosebeia,  and  every  other  branch  of  pagan 
worship,  with  their  sacred  rites,  altars,  temples, 
idolSj  and  groves,  received,  about  twenty  years  after 
the  death  of  Julian,  a  very  powerful  check.  All  these 
"  abominations''  were  severely  treated  by  Theodosius 
the  Great  in  his  6rst  edict,  or  decree,  against  pag;anism, 
about  A.D.  380.  Zosimus  records,  that  "  the  seats  of 
the    gods   were  everywhere   besieged,"- — to.  xii*  deiv 

t&t)  teara  iraurm'  erroTuopjtet  ttoKiv   Koi   ^capav,^ — ^and,    that 

(Hist.  Eccle?,  lib,  iii,  cpp.  I),  Thia  eeems  scurcely  consistent  with 
Julian's  own  account  of  himself  wlien  a  boy,  as  cited  in  tbe  text. 
The  imperial  author  mentionB,  towards  the  end  of  hio  Hymn,  a 
moal  ancient  sanctuary  of  the  Sun  at  Edessa,  ol  t^v  'EiwrtToy 
oiKovyTts  Itpav  i£  uti^i-i;^;  'IIA.cO'LI  ^ufitav.  Edessa  was  situate  ia  north- 
ern Mesopotair  ia ;  but  we  know  that  Eaiepa,  or  Emtssa,  in  Syria,  wu 
famed  for  it«  superb  Sun-temple;  and  it  iK  therefore  like]j  thsl 
EAE2£A  ia  an  error  for  EME55A. 
**  Zosimi  Hist.  lib.  iv.  cap.  33,  and  cap.  59. 


SCRIPTURAL    NAMKS    OF    BAALBEC. 


323 


I 


in  the  year  385,  *'  Cynegius  was  sent  to  forbid  the  wor- 
ship of  the  heathen  gods  and  to  shut  up  the  temples, 
not  only  in  Alexandria,  but  also  throughout  Egypt," 
the  very  land  of  tlie  Gods. 

To  carry  out  more  effectually  the  decree,  the  game 
emperor  withdrew  all  assistance  and  allowances  which 
had  been  usually  granted  towards  the  expenses  of 
Bacrifices.  And,  as  Theodosius  was  the  last  Roman 
emperor  who  was  the  sole  sovereign  of  the  whole  world, 
"orbis  lerrarum."  he  had  unbounded  authority,  and 
he  exerted  it  to  the  utmost  in  his  last  edict,  a.d.  390, 
in  decisiveJy  and  for  ever  overthrowing  the  worship 
of  the  heathen  deities. 

Macrobius  particularly  describes  the  Sun-uiorsMp  of 
Syria,  and  gives  full  details  of  how  it  was  introduced 
and  practised  in  Heliopolis,  now  Btmibec. 

Having  remarked,  that  '*  the  Syrians  celebrate  the 
Sun  by  the  name  of  Jupiter,  whom  they  term  Zeus 
Jleliopolrtes,  with  the  greatest  ceremonies  in  the  city, 
■which  is  called  Heliopolis,"  he  adds  more  distinctly  the 
history  of  this  local  deity  in  these  words : — "  Ejus 
J)ei  simulacTum  sumptura  est  de  oppido -JS^-^p^^  quod 
*t  ipsum  TleliopoUs  appellatur,  re^nante  apud  jEgyptios 
Senemure,  seu  idem  Senepos  nomine  fuit ;  perlatum- 
que  est  prlmum  in  earn  per  Oplam  legatum  Deleboris 
regis  Assyriorum,  sacerdotesque  Egyptios,  quorum 
princeps  fuit  Partemetis;  diuque  habitum  apud  Assy- 
rios  postea  Heliopolim  commigravit.  Cur  ita  factum, 
quaque  ratione  j^Cjit/'jj/o  profectum  in  haec  loca  ubi  nunc 
est  postea  veneht,  rituque  Assyrio  magis  quam  ^gyptio 
colatur  dicere  supersedi,  quia  ad  prcesentem  non  atti- 
aet  causatii.  Hunc  vero  eurndtm  Jovem  Solemque  esse 
cura  ex  ipso  sacrorum  ritu,  turn  ex  habitu  dinoscitur. 


324 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


Siinulacruiu  enira  aureum  specie  iraberbi  instat  dextra 
elevata  cum  flagro  in  auriga;  modum,  Iseva  tenet  ful 
meti"''  et  spicns,  quae  cuncta  Jovh  Solisque  eonsociatam 
potentjam  raonstrant."  "  \''ehitur  enim  s'wiulacnm 
Dei  HeJiopolitaai  fercuLo,  uti  vehuntur  in  pompa  lu- 
dorum  Circensium  deorum  simulacra  ;  et  subeunt  ple- 
rumque  provincise  proceres  raso  capite  longi  temporis 
castimonia  puri^  ferunturque  divino  spiritu,  con  suo 
arbitrio,  sed  quo  deus  propellit  vehenles.""* 

Lucian  also  states,  that  "the  Phoenicians  had  a  great 
and  aa  aQcient  image,  not  an  Assyrian,  but  an  Egyp- 
tian one,  which  came  from  Heliopolts  to  Plicenlcia." 

Ey^outFi  &€  Kai  aXXo  ^olvikcs  ipov,QUK  Aaevptov,aXK  Ai/yvir 
Tiov,  TO  ef  S\io\J  ivoKtas  es  TTfv  ^QtvtfCffv  airiKero.  Eyai  fxev 
/Aif  ovK  oTToyira,  fnya.  ot  xat  Tooe  xat  ap^aiav  tim. 

This  "City  of  the  Sun,"  or  Heliopolts,  here  alluded 
to,  is  that  very  ancient  city  oi  Egypt  called  *'  On  "  io 
Genesis  (xli.  45),  and  which  I  have  before  mentioned. 
It  was  situated  nearly  three  hours  to  the  north-east  of 
Cairo,  at  or  close  to  the  place  now  named  El  Matnrieh. 
Its  ruins,  says  a  recent  traveller**  in  that  country, 
"  consist  of  a  wide  enclosure  of  earthen  mounds,  partly 
planted  with  gardens ;  there,  in  the  midst  of  garden 
shrubs,  the  solitary  ohdisk  is  still  standing  which 
stood  in  front  of  the  temple,  then  in  company  with 
another^^  whose  base  alone  now  remains.      There  it 

**  The  thunder,  or  lightning,  of  coarBe  repre^ots  Juj/iter;  end 
the  ears  of  com,  the  Sun,  or  Baal:  the  various  fruits,  as  applei, 
pomegrimhtcs,  figs,  etc., — the  emblems  of  fertility,  iacrease,  and 
plenty, — were  the  peculiar  atlributes  of  Batd. 

^^  Macrobii  SatumaJ.  lib.  i.  cap.  23. 

"  Luciiui  •  De  Syfft  Defl,*  9.  5. 

"•■  Dr.  Stiinlev,  *  Siniii  ntid  Palestine,'  p.  34  introd.,  edit.  9. 

^  Two  obeli&ks  nre  recorded  to  have  becD  traneported  fnrni  On 


SCRIPTrRAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 


has  stood  for  nearly  four  thousand  years,  and  it  is  the 
oldest  known  in  Egypt." 

And  Dr.  Lepsius''*^  states,  that  King  *Sesortesen  L, 
who  is  named  by  others  Osirtasen.  raised  the  obelisk, 
which  is  still  erect  at  the  ruins  of  On,  about  b.c.  2300. 
Bishop  Tomlinsou,  in  translating  the  hieroglyphics 
on  the  obelisk  in  the  Piazza  del  Popolo,  gives  the 
titles  or  formulae  of  the  deity  as  closely  agreeing  with 
those  already  noticed  from  the  Rosetta  stone.  He 
says  the  inscriptions  run  thus :— "  The  good  God,  the 
Pharaoh,  guardian  of  Justice,  approved  of  the  Sun, 
the  Son  of  the  Sun,  giving  life  liite  the  jSkw."*^''' 

And  again,  "  the  King,  Lord  of  the  World,  Lord  of 
the  £ye  of  the  Sun,  Son  of  the  Sun^  being  of  his  race, 
and  loving  him." 

The  hawk-headed  deity  is  frequently  represented  ; 
which   is   Hor-phra,   or  Hor^rey  or  Horus  Sol,  the 
ApoLlo   of   the    Greeks — ^Afro^Xwv   KpaTepov,   Apollo, 
or  Horus,    the  powerful;'"''    Phra   being   merely  the 
^  local  name  of  the  Sun  as  used  at  Memphis.     Accord- 
ing to  Sir  G.Wilkinson,  "  the  ancient  Egyptian  name 
of    Heliopolis  was    in  hieroglyphics  Re-ei,  or  Ei-re, 
meaning  House  of  the  *SwHj"''''^  which  is  exactly  equi- 
"valent    to    the    Hebrew    Beth-shcmesh,   "  of    Egypt  '* 
<Jerem.  xliii.  13,  about  598  b.c);  but  in  Coptic  it  is 
termed  by  its  earlier  name.  On,  as  it  is  in  the  Septua- 
gint  and  English  versions.   That  city  was  always  much 
frequented  by  Jews,  or  Israelites. 

to  Rome ;  one  is  Dow  in  the  Piazza  del  Popolo,  and  the  other  at  the 
l^aterao, 

**  'Letter!.' kt.  ill.  p.  46,  by  Homer,  ISfiS. 

'^  Traas.  Rot.  Soc.  Lit.  Vol.  I.  C2nd  Ser,)  pp.  I7S,  180. 

'■■^  Ihid.  pp.  l79,  185, 

"*  Wilkinson's  Handbook,  p.  I5G. 


326 


ON    THE    SUPPOSED 


Dr.  Stanley,  mentioning  Re^  Ma,  or  Phra,  i.  e.  the 
Sun,  adds,  "this  was  not  onEy  the  especial  deity  of 
the -PAaraoAs  (which  means,  'children  of  the  Sun'), 
but  he  was  the  god  of  Hehopolis."^'' 

And  BO  we  find  that  Joseph  married  the  daughter  of 
Fati-p/ierah,  the  Priest  of  On^  or  of  the  Sun,  at  Helio- 
polis,  Poti-pkcrah  itself  is  considered  to  be  Jlert  ^ 
in  Coptic,  which  signifies  '  belonging  to  the  Sun  '— 
Soli  propriua.  And  there,  too,  it  is  very  reasonably 
thought  that  Moses  binaself  had  learned  "all  the  wisdom 
of  the  Efiyptians  "  (Acts  vii.  22).  But  in  the  Vatican 
and  Alexandrine  codices  of  the  Septuagint,  the  eleventh 
verse  of  the  first  chapter  of  Exodus  adds,  after  'Pafiecrai}, 
— Koi  'Up,  rf  etTTLv  'HXtQVTToXis ;  that  is  to  say>  "the 
Israelites  built  for  Pharaoh  .  .  .  Rmneses,  and  On, 
which  is  Hehopolis."  The  first  of  these  places  our 
English  Bible  renders  Raavises,  but  the  Greek  more 
correctly  Mameses,  which  means  '  Solis  fihus,'  Son  of 
the  Sun.  The  Hebrew  word  is  DDOyn,.  And  since 
both  Ramcses  and  On  had  existed  long  before  (Geo. 
xli.  45,  and  xlvii,  1),  the  Israelites  did  not  strictly 
"build  them;"  but  they  most  probably  built  or 
restored  their  fortifications,  and  so  enlarged  or 
strengthened  them  "for  Pharaoh.'' 

Further,  Sir  G.  Wilkinson  relates,  that  "  a  stone 
gateway  had  been  found"  at  the  ruin*  of  On,  upon 
'*  which  the  name  of  Thothmes  III.  occurs,  and  on  it 
is  mentioned  the  god  Re  {L  c.  the  god  Sun),  who  is 
called  '*  the  Lord  of  the  Temple.*''^ 

Herodotus  testifies  that  there  was  a  sacred  assembly 


^"*  Stanley's  '  Sinai  and  Palestine,'  2nd  edit.  p.  51,  introd, 
''  Wilkinsoo's  Handbook,  p.  156. 


I 

I 
I 

I 
I 


worship  of  the 
(ii.  59);  and  Strabo  spe 
Sun  at  the  same  place,'" 

Again,  from  the  centre  column  (L.)  of  the  hierogly- 
phic inscription  on  the  ohelisk  Del  Popolo,  Bishop 
Tomlinson^'^  renders  a  part  thus  : — "The  King  Pha- 
raoh, estabU&her  of  justice,  tills  Heliopohs  with  obelisks 
to  illustrate  with  (their)  rays  the  temple  of  the  Sun.*' 

Indeed,  an  obelisk  was  accounted  an  emblem  of 
the  Sun ;  its  sliape  having  been  taken  from  a  raj/  of 
that  celestial  luminary,'*  PUuy  thus  writes :— "  trabes, 
seu  obeliscos,  Solis  numiiu  sacratos.  Radiorum  ejus 
ai^umentum  in  effigie  est,  et  ita  significatur  nomine 
jEgyptio."'^ 

Hence  it  is  clear  that  the  city  of  On^  or  Aun,  was 
the  most  ancient  and  most  renowned  sanctuary  of  the 
Sun-god,  and  where  Heliosebeia  in  Egypt  was  most 
devotedly  followed ;  although,  with  the  Egyptian 
people  in  general,  the  Sun  was  saluted  as  a  principal 
and  eternal  divinity.^" 

Sir  G.  Wilkinson  states  that  *'  the  worship  of  R^," 
or  Ra,  Phre,  Phra,  or  Phrah,  as  he  is  termed  at  Mera- 

iKtift-^f^^  TO  itpov  fjfpvtra  tov    HAjod. — Slrnb.   GeOg.  lib.  xvii.  Cap.   1. 

f'  Tratis.  Roy,  Soc.  Lit.  Vol.  I.  ('2in)  Sen)  p.  184. 
^*  Ste  a  beautiful  profile  of  a  King  Ptolemy  cut  on  topaz, 
filate  90,  Worlidge'a  '  Antique  Gems.'  It  ia  remarkable  from 
baving  the  crown  on  the  head  composed  of  ten  lo  twelve  different- 
nized  abefis/u,  in  lieu  of  rays.  This  portrait,  being  that  of  a  youth, 
'*iraberbi9  juvenis,"  is  most  likely  represented  a/ler  Apollo,  with 
hi'S  crown  of  rays. 

^  PUn>  Mat.  Uiet.  lib.  xxxvi.  cap.  14,  and  Ammiaaus    Marcel^ 
linus,  lib,  xvii.  cap.  4. 

^^  Confer  Diodor.  Sic.  lib,  i.  cap.  11. 
VOL.  Til.  X 


328 


ON    THE    SUPl*OSED 


pliis,  who  was  the  physical  Surt.)  or  ITelius,  of  the 
Greeks,  "  appears  to  have  been  universal  throughout 
Egypt"  "  The  hawk  and  globe^  emblems  of  the  suw, 
are  placed  over  the  banners  or  the  figures  of  the  kings 
in  the  sculptures  to  denote  the  title  "  of  Phrah. 

"  The  god  lU  "  was  sometimes  represented  "  under 
the  form  of  a  hawk,  his  emblem  ;  Porphyry  saya, 
'  the  hawk  was  dedicated  to  the  Sun,  being  the  sym- 
bol of  light  and  spirit/  because  of  the  quickness  of  its 
motion,  and  its  ascent  to  the  higher  regions  of  the  air. 
HorapoUo  thinks  it  was  chosen  as  a  type  of  that  lumi- 
nary, '  from  its  being  able  to  look  more  intently  to- 
wards its  rays  than  any  other  bird,'  (except  the  eagle); 
whence,  aiso,  under  the  forni  of  a  hawk,  they  depicted 
the  Sun  as  the  Lord  of  Vision"  (Horapoll.  i.  6)." 

"Plutarch  (de  Isid.  a.  32),  Clemens  (Strom,  v. 
p.  159),  and  others,  agree  in  considering  the  hawk 
the  emblem  of  tlie  Beiitji ;  and  the  sculptures  clearly 
indicate  the  ffod  to  whom  it  was  particularly  sacred  to 
he  Jle,  or  the  Sun." 

And  "  the  hawk  was  especially  known  as  the  type 
of  the  Sun,  and  worshipped  at  Heliopolis  {On)  as  the 
sacred  Oml,  and  representative  of  {Ri-)  the  deity  of 
the  place." '" 

So,  with  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  tlie  eagle  was  the 
emblem  of  Zeus,  or  Jupiter;  and  the  hawk  or  eagle 
that  of  the  Sun,  Helius,  or  Sol. 

And  there  is  every  "  reason  to  believe  that  the  god 
^e  corresponded  to  the  Syrian  Baal^  a  name  imply- 
ing *  lord,'  which  was   given  par  excellence   to   the 

?'  Wilkinson,  '  Maiineri  and  CiistotmB  of  the  Ancient  Egyptians  ^ 
{2nd  series),  vol.  i.  pp.  287^  295. 
7"  Ibid.  Tol.  ii.  pp.  205-7. 


&CR1PTUKAL    NAMES    OP    BAALBBC. 


329 


I 


I 


Sun ;  and  the  same  idea  of  peculiar  sovereignty  vested 
in  that  deity  may  have  led  the  Egyptians  to  liave 
taken  from  R^  {Phrak),  the  regal  title  ol  their  kings. 
Hellopoiis  in  Syria  still  retains  the  name  of  Baatbec^ 
'the  City  of  the  (Lord  or)  Sun.'""''' 

Again,  Aman,  another  of  the  great  gods,  "  was  con- 
sidered by  the  Greeka  the  same  as  Jttpiler,  in  conse- 
quence of  his  having  the  title  'King  of  the  Gods;' 
and  under  the  name  Amuji-ret  he  was  the  intellectual 
SuD»  distinct  from  yfe,  the  physical  orb.  This  union  of 
^7/tunandi^e  cannot  fail  tocalltomindtheJu/jf^cr-Be/us 
of  the  Assyrians  ;  Baal,  or  Bclus,  being  the  Suti."^'^ 

From  these  accounts  it  will  be  evident  that  great 
similarity  existed  between  the  Heliosebeia,  as  prac- 
tised in  Egyptj  and  that  which  prevailed  from  the 
earliest  times  in  Syria,  Piiceriicia,  and  Palestine. 

Of  this  peculiar  worship  I  have  only  taken  a  very 
brief  survey,  intending,  at  a  future  opportunity,  to 
Investigate  it  more  fully,  and  to  consider  with  it  other 
species  or  branches  of  Heliosebeia,  namely,  the  adora- 
tion of  the  Moon  as  the  Queen  of  Heaven,  Astarotb, 
or  Astarte,  which  may  be  properly  termed  Selenosebeia 
t^SeK^f 00^0^(0-),  and  the  worship  of  the  siars^  Astro- 
eebeia,  "  or  any  of  the  host  of  heaven  ;  "*'  and,  Hke- 
vise,  the  cognate  worship  of  Jire,  Pyrosebeia,  or  of 
T'u/t'an,  as  the  god  of  Fire}' 

The    offering   of  oblations   or  sacred  rites  to  the 

ro  Wilkinson,  '  MannerB  and  Cusloraa  of  ihe  Ancient  Egyptians  ' 
<2Dd  series)^  vol.  i.  p.  299. 

"  Ibid.  vol.  ii.p.  246. 

^'  See  P^iit.  xvii,  3  \  Judges  ii.  13  ;  2  Kings  xxiii.  5  ;  Jerem. 
xliv.  17.  etc. 

^  Jal.  Casar,  De  Bell.  Gall.  lib.  vi.  cap.  21,  say*  of  the  Ger- 
OOQU*.  "Deorumnumeroducutit  Solera,  et  Vulcanum.ct  Lunain." — 

z2 


330 


ON   THE    aUPPOSED 


Moon  was  most  probably  effected  in  the  evening  or 
at  night  ;  that  to  the  stars  early  in  the  morning,  as  to 
Lucil'er,  or  in  the  evening  to  Hesperus  ;  but  adora- 
tion and  prayers  to  the  Sun  were  performed  three  times 
a  day,  viz,  at  sunrise,  middii}'  (noon),  and  at  suD- 
set.  So  we  find  in  the  Psalms  of  David  allusions  to 
these  profane  customs,  or  "abominations,"  which  the 
chosen  people  of  God  at  times  were  wont  to  observe, 
and  disobediently  to  follow.  The  inspired  Psalmist, 
possibly  with  a  view  of  inducing  the  disobedient 
Israelites  to  forsake  their  devotedness  to  the  idols  of 
Baal,  adopted  their  usual  custom  of  praying  thnce  a 
day.^^forhe  expressly  says,  in  Psalm  Iv.  17/'  Evening, 
and  morning,  and  at  noon,  will  I  pravj  and  cry  aloud." 
Again,  David  begins  Psalm  cxxi.  thus,  "  I  will  lift 
up  mine  eyes  unto  the  hill.'t,  from  whence  cometh  ray 
help."  The  worshippers  of  Baal,  or  the  ^\ix\,  or  of 
Jupiter,  or  of  Apollo,  as  I  have  before  shown,  erected 
their  altars,  and  sacrificed  to  their  gods,  upon  the  lo^js 
of  hills,  from  whence,  as  they  conceived,  their  good 
fortune  or  help  was  derived  ;  with  that  allusion  pro- 
bably, as  well  as  with  more  direct  reference  to  Mount 
Zion  and  Mount  Moriali  at  Jerusalem^  the  Psalmist 


Vestiges  of  this  worship    scsm  still  traceable   in  Germaoy^     Dr. 

Brugscb,  in  his  reteiit  lecture  '■  On  tlit  Affinity  between  Germans  and 
Persians,'  ilates,  "  Up  to  this  day,  the  greatest  fe!<tival  of  the  Per- 
siana  is  the  5«n-feslival,  held  in  the  spring.  Surrounded  by  all  tlie 
nobles  of  bin  empire,  the  Shah,  of  Persia  shows  himself  on  that 
occasion  to  his  people;  in  all  the  bazimrs  shine  lights  and  liimpa;  jtnd 
evervtbiug  ri^iqinds  one  of  the  Germnii  Eji«ter  and  St.  Joba'a  dnys, 
with  their  Jires  on  the  hiigJtls  of  hilU  and  mountaiiis-  Id  Uiv 
same  way,  both  nntives  posgeas  ihe  notion  of  the  ordeiil  of /re." 
Sec  ■  Parthenon.'  no,  17,  p-S'27. 
83  Compare  1  Kings  xviii.  26,  27.  39. 


BCKIPTURAL    NAMES    OF    BAALBEC. 

18  there  to  be  undeiatood.  And  upon  the  latter 
mountciin,  or  "upon  one  of  the  i/iountains,"  in  the 
land  of  Moriah,'''  whicli  the  Lord  told  Abrahiiin  of^ 
Isaac  was  offered  for  a  burnt  offering  :  and  before  that 
time,  nearly  half  a  century,  Abraham  had  builded  ao 
altar  unto  the  Lord  on  "  a  mountain,"  supposed  to 
have  been  Mount  Epliraim^  in  b.c.  19'21. 

Other  allusions  to  the  worship  of  "any  of  the  host 
of  heaven  "  need  not  be  further  dwelt  upon  ;  but 
Dr.  Stanley,  mentioning  the  great  temple  of  Ipsatnbul, 
which,  like  that  at  On,  was  dedicated  lo  Ha,  or  the 
SuQj  notices  the  well-known  Egyptian  Pierosphcre 
(vrepocr^xtipa),  which  he  terms  "an  emblem  of  true 

monotheisin."     He  describes  it  as  "  a  thousand  times 

repeated ;    always   impressive  and   always    beautiful; 

chiefly  on   the  roof  and  cornice,  like  the  Cherubim 

in  the  Holy  of  Holies ;  the  globe,  with  its  wide-spread 
■■b?in^5  of  azure  blue,  of  the  all-embracing  sky  :  '  under 

the  shadow  of  thy  wini/s  shall  be  my  refuge.'  "^^ 

This  wtjifjed  sphere,  emblematic  of  the  Sun,  is  ex- 
ceedingly common  in  Egyptian  sculptures  and  hiero- 
lyphics.and  is  sometimes  accompanied  with  a  winged 
tar^   both   of  which  winged  heavenly  orbs   are  well 
epresented,    with    a    noble-crested    hawk,    also    the 
'■«iiiblem  of  the  Sun,  or  lleUuB,  upon  an  onyx  gem 

described  by  Winckelmann,""   and   figured  no.   169, 

plate  iii.  Tassie's  Catalogue,  by  Raspe. 

>*•  The  Sepluagint  version  traiislatoa  "in  tlie  land  of  Monah" — 
•in   the  hiii  country' — eis  ttjv  yifv  r^v  ii^i/A.^v.  Gea,  xxii,  2. 
*  Stanley 'b  '  SJimi  and  Palestine,'  p,  53,  introd. 
•*  The  original   Js  in  the  Prussian  Cabinet ;    and,    accordistg  to 
"Wiackelmann  (Cat-  No.  24),  it  is  "  an  Egyptian  engraving  very  finely 
executed." 


332 


ON    THB    SUPPOSED 


This  antique  and  beautiful  gem  is  of  much  interest^ 
as  presenting  so  marked  a  connection  with  Egyptian 
Heliosebeia. 

This  Pterofphere  appears  to  be  variously  designed, 
both  in  the  form  of  the  wings  and  in  the  distribution 
of  their  feiithers  and  colours.^" 

The  Prophet  Malachi,  about  397  bc,  has  beea 
su])post?d  to  allude  to  this  tcinged  sphere,  or  disk, 
where  he  says,  iv.  2,  "  the  Sun  of  Righteousness  shall 
arise  witli  heal'mg^^  xn  his  icings;"  and  it  is  somewhat 
remarkable,  that  at  the  eX|nration  of  the  same  ftumber 
of  years  aflcr  the  birrh  of  that  Ntw  Sun,  viz.  about 
A. p.  397,  soon  after  the  final  edict  issued  by  Theodosius 
against  all  pagan  worship,  the  altars  of  Baal,  and  of  all 
the  heavenly  host,  had  been  effectually  overthrown,  and 

^  Refer,  smon^  others,  to  one  from  a  atele  &t  Keliopalis  (^Cfn), 
BK  29,  Alitb.  iii.,  '  Denkmaier  bus  Aegyplen,"  von  R.  L«p»ius:  kbo 
one  from  tbe  srimll  temple  uf  Medinet-Habou,  BL  7  uud  Bl.  72, 
from  SI  stele  «t  Thebes.  Abth,  iii.  And  for  u  more  highly  finished 
one,  no.  QS,  from  an  ancient  gateway  of  King  Tholhmes-Mceris  at 
Onibd?,  torn.  iii.  Rc>»iellim'»  '  ^lonumcnti  dell'  Egitto.'  Co m[>a re  like- 
wise Sip  R.  K.  Forter'a  'Travels,'  vol.  i.  pi,  30;  and  Layard's  '  Second 
£z.peditiuLi,'  p.  211,  a  "  winged  g-lobe"  from  the  rock  sculptures  at 
Baviaii,  in  Assym ;  and  pi.  3D  A  from  Ntmroud,  in  Layard'a  '  Mouu- 
meciCs  o(  Nineveli.'  And  see,  ecpeciBJIy  for  a  like  desi^,  pi,  75, 
Wilkinson's  'Manner^  and  Customs.' second  sene8,*«ppleiDent, plates, 
of  the  mitred  vulture,  or  crested  hawJi,  bearing  iti  his  elaws  two 
feathered  ornamenis,  as  compared  with  the  ere^inl  eagita,  at  Baalbec 
and  PBlmyra,  alruady  deecrihed  at  p,  54  ;  the  first  of  which  holds  the 
caduceas,  and  the  ItiEt,  in  the  same  maDiter.  iwa  paim-branches.  in 
its  talons. 

^  The  PterOsphere  is  very  often  figured  with  fira  serpents  aroupd 
the  disk.  These  reptiles,  being-  the  attributes  of  j^sculapius,  were 
symhulicid  of  ktaUh^  or  of  Aeaefifa  derivable  from  rnetficine.  lu  feet, 
jfisculapiua  wns  early  worshipped  at  Epidaurua  in  the  form  of  s 
serpent.     In  Egypt  the  serpent  was  assigned  to  the  Hun  or  R^;  it 


I 

I 

I 
I 


'*  Tliai  Sun  went  down,  and  all  the  waya  (of  bis  worship)  were 
overshadowed." 

Or,  since  Phcebus  {Apollo)  was  identical  with  Helms, 
the  followins;  lines  may  perhaps  better  declare  the  fare- 
well and  filial  parting  with  the  Ileliosebeian  temples, 

sacritices,  and  images: — 

Ka!  17V,  ^l^  ava(  'Ayuifij,  koI  fi.ska.Bpa.  jfoiptn, 

"  ThoD  too,  O  Phitbus,  mighty  king,  who  guard'st 
TbeK  wiiy!» ;  ye  palaces,  my  youthful  comradeSj 
FamxU;  and,  O  ye  slntue*  of  She  God?, 
Drench'd  witJi  the  blood  of  victims." 

Hence  the  natural  Sun,  or  solar  orb,  ceased  to  be  a 
god,  or  an  object  of  adoration,  among  the  civilized  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

*'  The  Svji  shall  be  7^0  more  thy  light  by  day  ; 
neither  for  brightness  shall  tke  Moon  give  light  unto 
thee ;  but  t^e  Lord  shall  be  unio  Ihee  an  everlasting 
light,  and  tht/  Ood  thy  glory.  Thy  Sun  shall  no  more 
ffodown;  neither  shall  thy  moon  withdraw  itself :  for 
the  Lord  shnW  be  tMne  everlastimj  I'tg/tt.''^''^ 

But  THE  SUN    OF   RIGHTEOUSNESS"  has 

WHS  ttamed  Urceus  from  OTpO,  Coptic  for  royal,  which  ie  in  Greek 

0atti)uiTii'ii,  and  !vO  basilisk. 

'^  Eiirip.  '  Phcenissa?/  v.  G-lO  1  the  translation  from  Wodhull. 

<"  IsBinb  Ix.  19,  20. 

"'  From  Bishop  Tomhneoo's  tj-»n8latioiiB  (Trans,  Roy.  Soc.  Lit, 
Vol.  1,  2ud  Seriee-,  p.  l^i?)  of  the  hieroglyphics,  on  the  Flaminian.  or 
Dti  fopoio,  obelisk,  it  will  be  seen  thnt  the  Egyplifln  god  or  king 
\%  »tvifd,  "The  Pharaoh,  ibc  Gunrdijin  of  JuEtire,"  or  "  the  Esta- 
btiBher  of  Justice,  the  Stiii  of  the  Sun,"  etc.  And  St.  Augustine 
writes  (ii.  in  Psnl,  ixv.  cap.  3),  ''Eat  nuster  SqI  juatitls  veritu 
CAm/u*." 


334     SUPPOSED    SCRIPTURAL    NAHK8    OF    BAALBBC. 

arisen,  and  He  is  called  THE  LORD  OUR  RIGHT- 
EOUSNESS;  for  this  "Light  is  come,  and  tht 
glory  of  the  Lord  is  risen  upon"  the  nations;  "anc 
there  shall  be  no  night "  to  those  who  "  serve  Him  ;  * 
and  they  need  no  light  of  the  Sun ;  for  the  Lord  God 
giveth  them  l^ht :  and  they  shall  reign  for  ever  anc 
ever."«» 

"  JeBus  Baid  (St.  John  viii.  12),  "I  am  the  JAgii  of  the  world 
he  that  foUoweth  me  shall  not  walk  id  darlniew,  bat  aball  have  thi 
light  of  life." 

^  Jerem.  xziii.  6 ;  Isuah  Ix.  1 ;  and  Rev.  xxU.  3.  5. 


335 


XI.— A   SLIGHT  MISTAKE   OF  LORD  MACAULAY. 


BT    THi    BBT,    UACKVNEtB    B.    C.    WALCOTT. 


(Read  April  9th,  1862.) 


I 


The  last  moments  of  an  English  king  are  not  without 
interest,  but  I  have  no  intention  of  relating  last  words 
in  the  spirit  of  M.  Deslandes  or  M.  Colonibey,  when  I 
propose  to  clear  up  an  inaccuracy  in  the  narrative  of 
the  death  of  Charles  II.,  by  Lord  Macaulay,  as  it  is  a 
very  curious  instance  of  the  consequences  of  a  slight 
nnistake  in  deciphering  an  indistinct  manuscript  or 
printed  paper,  and  in  attempting  to  explain  initials 
without  sufficient  caution. 

I  have  carefully  consulted  all  the  accredited  histo- 
rians and  writers  who  have  alluded  to  the  subject, — 
Burnet,  Macpherson,  Evelyn^  Lingard,  Hume,  C. 
Knight's  History  of  England,  Dalrymple,  Ellis's  Let- 
ters, State  Tracts,  etc., — and  shall,  for  the  purpose  of 
clearing  the  way  to  an  elucidation,  of  the  error,  give  a 
summary  of  their  substance  very  briefly. 

Evelyn  writes  to  this  effect; — "  I  went  to  London, 
hearing  his  Majesty  had  been  the  Monday  before,  2 
Feb.,  surprised  in  his  bedchamber  with  an  apoplectic 
fit,  so  that  if  Dr.  King  had  not  been  accidentally  pre- 
sent to  let  him  blood,  liis  Majesty  had  certainly  died 


336 


A    SLIGHT    MISTAKE 


that  moment On  Thursday  hopes  of  recovefT" 

were  signified  in  the  public  Gazette;  but  lliat  day, 
about  noone,  the  physitians  IhouglU  himfeaverish.  .  .  . 
He  gave  up  the  ghost  at  half  an  hour  after  eleven  in 
the  morning,  being  the  Gth  of  February,  1685.  .  . . 
Those  who  assisted  his  Majesty's  devotions  were  the 
Abp.  of  Canterbury,  the  Bishops  of  Loudon,  Durham, 
and  Ely,  but  more  especially  Dr.  Ken,  the  Bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells.  It  is  sayd  they  exceedingly  urged  the 
receiving  the  Holy  Sacrament,  but  his  Jlajesty  told 
thera  he  would  consider  of  it,  which  he  did  so  long  till 
it  was  too  late.  Others  whispered  that  the  bishops  and 
lords,  except  the  Earls  of  Bath  and  Feversham,  being 
ordered  to  withdraw  the  night  before,  Hurlston  the 
priest  had  presumed  to  administer  the  Popish  offices." 

Ur.  Lingard,  on  the  authority  of  Barillon»  says  that 
the  Duke  of  York  "ordered  all  present  to  quit  the 
room,  except  the  Ear!  of  Bath,  lord  of  the  bedchamber, 
and  the  Earl  ot  Feversham,  captain  of  the  guard,  whose 
attendance  he  thought  necessary  to  prevent  any  sinister 
reports,  and  then  introduced  HuddiestoUj  with  the 
words,  '  Sir,  this  worthy  man  once  saved  your  life,  he 
now  comes  to  save  your  soul.'  " 

Burnet  says  that  "  the  Earls  of  Bath  and  Feversham 
only  were  present;"  while  Macpheraon  mentions,  on  the 
authority  of  a  manuscript  in  his  possession,  "the  Earl 
of  Bathj  and  Trevannion,  a  captain  in  the  Guards." 
The  "Memoirs  of  James  11,,"  published  by  that  author, 
also  mention  these  names,  which  were  in  all  likelihood 
in  the  manuscript  he  quoted,  A  third  person  appears 
on  the  scene:  "the  Duke  of  York  proposed  send- 
ing (or  a  priest  to  him  (Charles  fl.)  to  Count  Castel 
Melhor." 


or    tORU    MACAULAY 


337 


I 


Barillon,  in  his  dispatch  of  Feb.  18,  IG85,  given  by 
Dairymple,  saj's  that  "  the  Duke  perceived  the  Earl  of 
Castd  Melhor,  who  with  warmth  embraced  the  pro- 
posal made  him  ;  ...  as  the  time  pressed,  he  went 
where  the  Queen's  priests  were,  and  found  amongst 
them  one  Hiidelston,  a  Scotchman.  .  .  .  The  Duke  said 
aloud, 'The  King  wills  that  everybody  should  retire 
except  the  Earls  of  Bath  and  Feversham ;'  the  first  was 
lord  of  the  bedchamber,  and  the  other  was  iu  waiting." 
Huddleston  himself,  in  his  brief  account,  mentions  no 
names,  but  says  that  he  was  summoned  "between  7 
and  8  a  clock  in  the  evening,  upon  Thursday,  the  fifth 
of  February." 

All  so  far  is  simple  enough,  with  the  exception  that 
TrevanioUj  a  captain  in  the  Guardrf,  is  mentioned  as  an 
additional  witness  by  some  of  the  authorities  ;  but  Lord 
Macaulay  has  complicated  the  matter  by  a  note  to  his 
description  of  the  king's  last  hours,  "I  have  seen  ia 
the  British  Museum,"  be  writes,  '•  and  also  in  the  Li- 
brary of  the  Royal  Institution,  a  curious  broadside, 
containing  an  account  of  the  death  of  Charles.  The 
author  was  evidently  a  zealous  Roman  Catholic,  and 
must  have  had  access  to  good  sources  of  information. 
t  strongly  suspect  that  he  had  been  in  communication, 
directly  or  indirectly,  with  James  himself.  No  name 
is  given  at  length,  but  the  initials  are  perfectly  intelli- 
gible except  in  one  place.  It  is  said  that  the  Duke  of 
York  was  reminded  of  the  duty  which  he  owed  to  hia 
brother  by  P.  M.  A.  C.  F.  I  must  own  myself  quite 
unable  to  decipher  the  last  6ve  letters." 

This  broadside  was  printed  in  the  "'Phoenix,'  a 
revival  of  scarce  and  valuable  pieceSj  being  a  colUc- 
tion  of  manuscripts  and  printed  tracts  nowhere  to  be 


333 


SLIGHT    MISTAKE 


found  but  ill  the  closets  of  the  curious,  by  a  gentleman 
who  lias  made  it  his  business  to  setirch  after  such 
pieces  for  twenty  years  past,"  published  in  1 727,  Na- 
turally enough,  the  difficulty  was  no  sooner  annouuced 
than  it  provoked  Ingenious  speculations  to  achieve  its 
solution.  The  mysterious  letters  stood,  it  was  asserted, 
for"P6reMansuete,  a  Capuchin  Friar,"  the  coitfessor of 
the  Duke  of  York»  who  urged  his  patron  to  take  care 
of  the  king^s  soul.  Then  another  suggestion,  perhaps 
somewhat  less  acute,  ran  to  the  eftect  that  the  initials 
might  mean  "in  the  atternoon  a  confidential  friend," 
or,  perhaps,  '*  Patrick  Maginn,  a  Carmelite  Friar," 
while  P.  and  B.  were  assumed  to  indicate  the  Lords 
Petre  and  Bristol. 

It  so  happened  that  some  lime  since  a  manuscript 
volume  belonging  to  Mr.  Andrew  Fountaine,  of  Nar- 
ford  Hall,  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  was  placed,  by  a 
relative  of  that  gentleman,  in  my  bands.  It  contained 
the  entry  which  I  subjoin,  besides  a  large  collection  of 
letters  relative  to  the  reign  of  James  II.,  addressed  by 
Bishop  Smalridge^  Dr.  Charlett — Master  of  University 
College,  Oxford — Bishop  Stratford,  and  other  corre- 
spondents, to  its  former  owner,  Mr.  James  Harrington, 
ol'  whom  full  particulars  will  be  found  in  Chalmers's 
'  Biographical  Dictionary.' 


"  A  paper  is  published  w*^*"-"'  autority.  Relating  y*  turner  of 
y'  Deatli  of  y^  late  Kitig. 

"  On  Munday,  Feb,  2,  He  fell  into  an  Apoplexy,  &  by  loss 
of  0"  ounces  of  Blood  and  some  other  Remedies  he  seemed 
Bomew'  Recovered,  Rut  at  12  on  Thursday  The  Physicians 
despaired  of  his  health  &  so  nequnintd  y  Cuunsell.  At  I 
P.M.  P.  C.  F.  came  to  y^  D.  and  told  him  tins  was  y*  time  to 
take  tare  of  hi*  Brother's  soul.     He  went  to  him  &  upo. 


i 


OF    LORD    MACAULAY. 


339 


bis  desire  sent  for  Huddlesto'.  The  K.  saying  y'  y*  Father 
■w"*  savd  him  in  y*  tree  would  now  save  his  soul.  Then  y" 
Jfobles  all  Departed,  but  y'  D.  orderd  P.  F.  and  B.  to  stay, 
And  w°  Huddlestun  came  The  K.  s""  wt  good  Planet  watches 
over  one  O  U  my  exile,  my  Fi^ht  at  Worcester,  my  Safety 
there  by  the  help  of  tins  Good  Father,  my  Dangers  in  y*  late 
*^Consjiiracyj  and  y*  now  This  Good  fa.  should  be  present  to 
gave  my  soul,  be  sure  L*"  Thou  hast  created  him  fur  my  Good. 
T*^  after  B  long  discourse  H.  askd  if  be  w"^  receive.  He  s"*  Yes, 
if  he  were  worthy:  &  bo  be  receivd  &  then  had  extreme 
unction.  Then  y  nobles  returnd  &  B^  asltd  him  whether  he 
w**  receive.    He  answerd  no.    The  nest  Day  at  12  he  dyed." 

From  this  paper  it  appears  that  besides  Lord  Pever- 
Bham  and  Lord  Bath,  the  latter  of  whom  was  groom 
of  tbe  stole,  there  was  a  third  witness,  who  is  not  men- 
lioued  by  Lord  Macaulay,  indicated  under  the  initial 
p*.  This  nobleman  was,  in  all  probability,  Menry  Mor- 
Haunt,  second   Lord   Peterborough,  who,  according  to 
^Burnet,  met  Dr.  King  in  Whitehall,  and  conversed 
■with  him  about  the  King's  dangerous  state  of  health, 
immediately  before  Charles  IL  was  struck  with  apo- 
plexy.     Me  had  greatly  dtstint^nished  himself  by  his 
courage  at  Newbury,  and  all  his  estates  were  aeques- 

klered  after  the  failure  of  his  chivalrous  plot  in  concert 
with  Lord  Holland  ;  he  was  a  privy  councillor,  and  in 
1689  was  threatened  with  impeachment,  on  the  ground 
that  he  harl  become  reconciled  to  the  Church  of  Rome. 
The  Earl  of  Feversham  was  brother  of  the  Duke  de 
DuraSt  and  Marquis  of  Blanquefort ;  his  first  English 
peerage  was  conferred  upon  him  as  a  reward  for  his 
■gallantry  in  the  grent  naval  battle  of  16G5,  fought  with 
the  French  fleet,  ile  was  also  captain  of  the  guard, 
under  the  Duke  of  York. 

The  Conde  de  Castelmelhor,  indicated  by  the  initial 


340        A    BLIGHT    MISTAKE    OF    LORD    MACAVLAT, 

C,  was  the  oM  and  faithful  friend  of  Catherine  of  Bra- 
ganza,  in  whose  service  he  was  employed  as  chief  groom 
of  her  chamber.  He  had  taken  refuge  ia  England  after 
incurring  the  ill-will  of  the  reigning  sovereign  of  Por- 
tugal, Don  Pedro,  owing  to  his  fidelity  to  his  imbecile 
patron,  Don  AlphonsoVI.,  on  whose  behalf  be  success' 
fully  intrigued  to  remove  the  Queen  Regent  from  her 
government.  He  was  afterwards  employed  in  arran- 
ging the  removal  of  Queen  Catherine  from  Somerset 
House. 

John  Granville,  son  of  the  gallant  Sir  Bevil,  who  fell 
in  the  battle  of  Lansdowne,  near  Bath,  was  severely 
wounded  at  Newbury,  and  acted  as  gentleman  of  the 
bedchamber  to  Charles  II.,  whom  he  followed  in  his 
exile,  and  whose  restoration  he  was  mainly  instrumental 
in  procuring,  by  his  successful  negotiation  with  his 
kinsman  General  Monk.  He  was  created  Earl  of  Bath, 
for  his  services  and  sufferings  in  the  royal  cause.  The 
bishop,  it  is  almost  superfluous  to  add,  was  Dr.  Ken, 
of  Bath  and  Wells. 

The  mystery  of  the  initials  misread  by  Lord  Macau- 
lay  disappears  when  we  read  that  at  "  one  p.m.  Peter- 
borough, Castelraelhor,  and  Feversham"  came  to  the 
Duke. 


341 


Xri.— TRANSLATION  OF  AN  INSCRIPTION  OF 
NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 

AT    H.    r.    TALBOT,    V.P.n.S.L, 

(Read  JaDnary  8th.  1862.) 

This  inscription  is  from  a  clay  cylinder,  found  at  Ba- 
bylon, and  now  in  the  possession  of  Sir  T.  Phillipps, 
Bart.,  of  Middle  Hill.  The  cuneiform  text  was  admi- 
rably copied  in  facsimile  by  Bellino,  many  years  ago  ; 
and  the  engraving  of  this  on  a  copper-plate,  by  the  care 
of  Grotefend,  is  equally  excellent.  More  recently,  it 
has  been  lithographed  in  larger  and  plainer  characters 
in  PI.  65  of  the  New  Volume  of  Inscriptions,  published 
by  the  Trustees  of  the  British  Museum,  under  the  skil- 
iul  direction  of  Sir  H.  Rawlinson. 

This  inscription  is  one  of  the  more  difficult  of  its 
<;lass.  There  are  many  unusual  words ;  and  several 
passages  still  await  interpretation.  I  have  divided  it 
into  portions  of  convenient  length,  in  order  that  the 
explanatory  notes  may  be  more  easily  referred  to.  I 
have  placed  the  original  and  the  translation  in  opposite 
columns. 


342 


TRANSLATION    Of 


Column  I. 


Linel.  NBbiu-kudur-u.Bs.ur  ear 
misharim 

2.  ribitu    !kinu,    muttam   Leb< 
sliati 

3.  Biu«ti$hir  bahukti  he\,  Stie- 
mesb,  u  Marduk 

4.  mustalem    akbic»    nimiki, 
mu&tihu  babdam, 

5.  nudata  la  mupparku, 

6.  zanin    betb '  @b«ggatbu    u 
betii-zida 

7.  tar  Nabiu-pal-nsBur  Bar  Bb- 
bilii  nnaku. 


Nebuchadnezzar,  the  victonaui 
king-, 

the  glorious  ruler,  the  restorer 
of  public  works, 

the  director  of  the  workmen 
of  fiel,  the  Sun,  and  Morduk, 

the  perfecter  of  .  .  .,  the  die-pea- 
ser  of  plenty, 

the  hero  sever  contjuered, 

the  repairer  of  the  templee  ud 
holy  places, 

the  »on  of  Nftbofiolasukr,  King 
of  Babylon  :  I  am  he. 


ObKcrvalions. 

Misharim,  victorious.  This  sense  is  determined  by 
the  phrase  misharisK  duduku,  he  went  forth,  victo- 
riously. 

Ribifu  should  perhaps  be  pronounced  rihu, 

Kirnt  means  sometimes  noble,  gloTious,  and  some- 
times j?rs(,  eldest. 

Mttttaru,  a  restoiar,  from  root  tar,  to  restore.  Wetar 
or  ntar.  I  ri'Stored,  is  very  frequent. 

Tehshati  may  he  same  as  ebshat.  works.  It  occurs 
in  the  Bellino  inscription,  1.  43.  Tebshid  mat  Kaldi, 
raat  Aramu,  etc. 

Mustisfiir  is  used  often  for  governor.  Root,  sutishur, 
government- 

Bahulati  maj'  be  for  bakhulati,  generally  active  young 
men  ;  sometimes  soldiers. 

Mustalam^  the  perfecter  ;  participle  of  t  conjugation 
of  salam,  Chald.  DTtT,  absolvit,  perfecit  (opus),  Ges. 
1014  ;  whence  part.  pass.  QiTlT,  salim,  perfectus  (Ezra 
y.  16).     The  etymology  of  Jerusalem  (Ursalimma  in 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OF    NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 


343 


I 


Assyrian)  has  never  been  settled  in  a  raanner  quite 
eatis factory.  Perhaps  it  meant  the  perfect  city,  Ur- 
$alim.  A  city  is  Ar,Ir,  and  sometimes  t7rin  Assyrian^ 
"Vy  in  Hebrew.  Or  else,  mustalam,  may  be,  he  who 
makes  prosperous  (from  another  sense  of  D^U*),  and 
Ursalimma  may  mean  City  of  Prosperity.  Itsfoundcrs 
could  hardly  have  intended  to  call  it  City  of  Salvation. 

Mmtilm  or  mustifchu,  partic.  of  niau?^  shatakh,  ex- 
pandit  (Ges.  996j.  In  Job,  it  is  to  enlarge  the  people's 
territory,  and  so  make  them  prosperous.  In  Psalm 
Ixxxviii.  10,  expandit  {brachia).  The  word  occurs 
several  times  in  the  great  E.  I.  H.  inscription  in  both 
these  senses, 

Baladam.  This  word  occurs  frequently  and  variously 
written,  as  halatha  and  malatha  ;  always  meaning  abun- 
dance.    It  is  doubtless  the  Heb.  malatha^  plenty. 

Nadam,  hero;  elsewhere  nada,  nadu,,  nahidu. 

The  6nal  m  is  merely  euphonious  In  this  and  many 
other  words,  interchanging  with  u  and  v.  Hence  the 
came  of  king  Nabo-nahid- 

Mupparku,  part,  of  parak  "yiS,  to  break.  So  the 
Ijatins  say,  '  copise /roc/ep.' 

Bahilu.  The  last  syllable  is  soraelimes  luy  but  oftener 
iam.  By  reading  Babilam  we  obtain  the  name  which 
the  Greeks  pronounced  Ba0vXo,v. 


'       8.  Nina  MBrdwk  bel  rabu.  ana 

iKllut  madi, 
I       9.  issha  annima, 
[       10.  iil^hat  rapsbat  Bna  riliituti 

itioam. 


Ttie  TavDur  of  Marduk  the  great 
Lord,  uuto  great  royalty 

rntsed  me  \ 

(anil)  gave  to  me  the  supreme 
power  over  chiefs  aad  kings. 


Igsha,  from  Ntt?3,  naska,  to  raise.  Initial  n  is  often 
►rejected  in  the  tenses,  as  issiku,  they  kissed,  from  nassik, 
hto  kiss,     It  is  also  rejected  in  Hebrew  verbs.     Line 

VOL.  Vil.  2     L 


344 


TRANSLAtlON    OP 


10  means  Hteially,  "  He  gave  to  me  kings,  to  rule  over 
them,"  Compare  the  inscription  of  Sennacherib  i^Brit. 
Mus.  pi.  37,  L  15),  gimri  nishat  reskdu  weshaknis  sha- 
bua — all  the  kings  I  forced  to  bow  down  as  niy  slaves 
(where  the  parallel  passage  on  the  bull  has  inalki  ska 
kipraii,  kings  of  the  countries). 

Nishat  reshdii  are  literally  chief  men  or  foremost  men; 
nishat  rapshatt  very  great  men. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  in  this  inscription  of  Ne- 
buchadnezzar the  word  jiiskat  is  used  in  two  very  diffe- 
rent senses,  viz.  (1)  Men :  the  same  as  the  more  usual 
nisi,  Syr.  U?3,  as  "Urs  12,  filius  homims,  i.  e.  homo,  and 
W2}i  ^31,  homines  (see  Schaaf's  Lex.).  {2)  Wonders, 
marvels,  or  conspicuous  objects:  from  ni'sA,  lleb.  D3, 
signum,  etc. 

Rihituti  should  perhaps  be  pronounced  rikuti. 

Itinam,  he  gave  to  me.  Other  tenses  are,  aitun,  I 
gave ;  iddma,  he  gave  ;  I'ddinu,  they  gave.  From  Heb. 
]n3,  natan,  to  give.     Fut  ittan.     Imperat.  tan. 


IL   Ana    Mardiik  ilu  batii-ya 
palbhish  lu-tukku ; 


12.    Aim      sliAdam 

la-kanisb  kishadmn. 


Unto    MarduTt,   the   god    my 
Creator.    I    humbled    mvself  in 
worship, 
Birdi-»u  Bi^rore  the  curtain  of  hia  eanc- 

tuary  I  howed  dawn  my  head. 

Palki$k,  "  with  worship  :"  from  Pi'td,  palikh,  to  wor- 
ship, a  word  very  frequent  in  Assyrian. 

hu-takkn,  or  lu-utakku,  from  nnn,  iahkatr  down- 
wards. The  particle  hi,  which  is  prefixed  to  so  manv^ 
verbs  without  altering  their  meaning,  has  not  yet  bee 
explained.  It  is  most  frequent  iu  some  of  the  mos 
ancient  inscriptions  :  afterwards  gradually  disappear 
ing,  as  having  been  found  unnecessary.  Frequently,  iir^ 
two  copies  of  the  same  inscription,  one  has  it  and  tb 


AW    INSCRIPTION    OF    NKBUCHADNBZZAR, 


345 


I 


other  has  it  not.  It  is  not  employed  for  the  first  per- 
son only  of  verbs,  and  therefore  it  is  not  an  ancient 
word  for  Ego,  I  rather  think  it  was  a  particle  imply- 
ing that  the  following  word  was  a  verh,  which  may 
have  been  a  useful  hint-  What  makes  this  more  pro- 
bable is  that  it  is  plainly  so  used  in  some  instances 
where,  to  save  space  and  trouble,  only  the  last  syllable 
of  a  verb  is  written,  but  with  In  prefixed,  which  en- 
abled the  reader  at  once  to  supply  the  verb  which  the 
sense  of  the  passage  required.     Thus  lu-iA  was  to  be 

I  read  etitik. 
But  the  particle  lu  prefixed  to  verbs  in  the  optative 
mood  is  totally  different  from  the  above.     This  is  the 
Heh.  17,  and  may  be  rendered  utinanit  etc. 

I  Ana  shadam  slrdi-su.  There  is  a  curious  passage  in 
the  E.  I,  H.  inscription,  which  is  very  analogous  to 
this. 
SAfldfl,  embroidery  :  viz.  that  of  the  curtains.  They 
were  covered  with  imagery.  From  Syr.  an,  /that,  or 
fchadf  but  pronounced  shad  in  Assyrian.  Rendered 
*uitt  assuit,  consult,  in  Schaaf's  Lex.  p.  178.  Similarly 

(the  two  languages  agree,  in  the  reduplicate  form ;  viz. 
AssyrJan.sftaJczd,  toembrolider,  Syr.  tttsn,  AAaiai.  With 
respect  to  the  interchange  of  kh  and  sh,  it  is,  as  1  have 

I  before  remarked,  very  frequent. 
Sirdi,  curtains.  Chald.  t''"nD,  sirdin^  curtains;  so 
c-alled,  says  Gesenius,  from  their  peculiar  texture, 
Mrhich  was  obtained  by  the  use  of  needles  :  "  acicum  ope 
sj  /ilis  conlcxtum."  He  then  quotes  an  Arabic  word 
iriTid,  consult  or  contexuit,  which  as  a  substantive 
Cneans  stylus  or  suhula,  apparently  a  long  needle. 
These  sirdin  he  renders  aul^sa,  topntes  {Ges,  969). 
From  tbis  I  infer  that  it  was  a  kind  of  tapestry, 

2  a2 


346 


TRANSLATION    OF 


ornamented  with  imagery  of  needle-work  :  which  is 
most  expressly  stateJ  m  the  E.  I.  H.  inscription,  if  i 
have  rightly  interpreted  that  curious  passage. 

The  curtains  of  the  Holy  Tabernacle  were  called  in 
Heb.  ^TTil?,  s-irdi.  (Ges.  ibid)  The  word  has  doubt- 
less the  same  sea&e  in  Nebuchadnezzar^s  inscriptioDS 
that  it  has  in  the  Old  Testamect ;  and  in.  fact  it  7>'as 
so  translated  by  me,  from  the  context,  before  the  above 
passage  was  found  in  Gesenius. 

Wekanish,  I  bowed  down.  Rather  distantly  related 
to  the  Heb.  I'JJ.  The  root  kanish  is  very  commoD  in 
Assyrian,  aslakansut,  rebellious,  disobedient  men:  or 
those  who  will  not  bow  down.  La  iXyiusu  ana  niri, 
they  would  not  bow  down  to  the  yoke.  But  the  verbis 
commonly  in  the  sha  conjugation,  weshaknis,  1  caused 
to  bow  down,  I  subjugated. 

Kirkadam,  the  head-  Ex.  gr.  iishadati-sun  wendt- 
i-ush  I  cut  off  iheir  heads.   (B.  M.  pi.  41.  1.  76.) 


I 


13,  tsattu  kuEudu  vasButi 

14,  nitba-au  eilluti 

15,  eli  iha  panu  WQshatir. 


Hia  store   of    bright-«olaurtd 
^rments 

hia  precioua  ■  . .  , .  .  . 

more  thuji  before  I  iiuginentcJ' 


Tsattu  or  ssattu  may  be  a  form  of  the  Ileb.  yrff, 
munus,  donum. 

Kusudu,  a  word  slightly  altered  from  the  SyriaC 
Wy02, ^'asita,  a  dress :  pallium,  velamen,  vestimentuni, 
from  root  NDIJ,  amicivit,  induit.     (Schaaf,  p.  274.) 

Vassuti,  bright-  or  many-coloured  dresses.  Tims 
Sennacherib  carried  off  from  Ilezekiah  all  his  {A/nwl 
scarlet  robes  and  vassuti  (showy  dresses).  It  appeft"^ 
to  be  the  Arabic  word  mentioned  by  Geseiiius,  p.  &69. 
vasky  or  vaska,  which  he  renders  vestis  versicolor. 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OF    NEBUCHADNEZZAK. 


347 


IS.  bIib  tamu  I  gu  makhefeara,         Every  day  (_I  distribulfd)  one 


ga 


sul, 


17.  khizEL  tzulukbi  damguti. 


sitriped  ox  and  one  spotted  ox, 

Of  a  fat  well-fed  form  to  look 
upon, 
18.  gadu  sha  iltm  Betli-shag-         The    portion    of  the    guds    of 


gMbu  u  dim  BabilAtu. 


"the  Teniptc,"*  and  the  gods  of 
Babvlon. 


I  Ska  tamu,  every  day  :  literally,  *'of  a  day."  A  verb 
is  wanting  to  this  sentence,  with  the  sense  of  "  I  dis- 
tributed." Perhaps  it  is  governed  by  amnu  in  1.  20, 
which  has  that  meaning. 

tin  hne  16,  Belllno^s  faceimile  appears  to  read  ma- 
khehara,  which  I  have  translated  striped.  1  suppose  it 
means  having  a  spotted  or  variegated  skin,  or  hand- 
somely striped.  1  think  it  is  a  participle  of  the  verb 
khehar^  ISn,  lineis  notatits  est :  variegatus  est.  The 
stripes  on  a  leopard's  skin  are  denoted  by  this  term, 
and  in  Arabic  kkehah  means  a  striped  garment  [Ges. 
317).  [Whence  does  the  srefim  take  his  name  ?  Ifitia 
an  Arabic  word,  I  should  suppose  it  meant  "striped."] 
The  other  ox  has  tlie  epithet  sxd,  which  I  suppose 
to  mean  virgatus  or  virgis  notatus  (marked  with  lines), 
from  Heb.  7D,  sal,  virga  (Ges,  713). 

So  the  Greeks  use  pa^&toTOi,  as  ifua-m  pa^^orra,  Xen, 
(striped  garments)  :  and,  appHed  to  animals,  it  means 
streaked,  etriated,  like  the  Lat.  virgatus  (especially 
leDgthways).  Arist.  Hist.  An.  4^  4,  6. 
f  Khiza,  to  look  upon.  Heb.  ntn,  whence rilTTT,  khizut, 
species,  maximfe  magna  et  pulchra.  (Ges.) 

(Tzulukhi,  fot  or  well-fed:   from  vh^j  ben^  crevit: 
prosperavil  (Ges.  864). 
TzuIuJIrhi  damgiiH^  of  a  fat  or  well-fed  figure.     This 
word  ilamguii   (probably  pronounced  damyuti)  would 
■  hardly  be  recognizable  if  it  were  not  that  the  same  pas- 


348  TKANSLATION    OF 

sage  recurs  Col.  III.  1.11:  and  there  the  word  is  written 
dttmuti,v/h.ich  is  plainly  the  Syriac  JTlDT  demut,  a  figure. 
In  Ezekiel  "  all  four  had  one  form,"  THM  mm. 

Gadu,  a  portion :  from  the  Syriac  gad,  to  cut  off 
(Schaaf,  p.  85).  Tiglath  Piteser  uses  a  similar  expres- 
sion when  he  gives  a  portion  of  the  enemy's  spoil  to 
the  gods.  He  says,  akish,  I  cut  it  off.  We  might 
also  compare  the  Homeric  renevo»  ra/*ov  e^o^pv  aXKeav. 

The  passage  which  follows  next  is  extremely  difficult, 
and  I  must  leave  it  without  translation,  beyond  the 
remarks  in  the  notes. 

19.  nana  itsuru  iresuma  pUa  umat  apparim. 

20.  dishpam  Ichimiti  sits  bidumuk-eha  amnu 

21.  kurunu  dashpam  eikar  tsatnra 
StI.  IcaraDam  eillo  karanam  mati  zalla 

23.  Tahimmu,  TBimmiQi,  KhilbuH. 

24.  Aranabanu,  Tzukham, 
35.  Beth-Kubati,  a  Bitati. 

The  first  line  occurs  again  in  Col.  II.  29,  and  again 
in  Col.  III.  13,  with  a  slightly  different  collocation  of 
the  words.  These  passages  should  be  referred  to,  as 
their  comparison  may  perhaps  throw  some  light  upon 
the  meaning.  I  translate  the  first  line  "  a  kind  ofjish, 
which  I  called  '  imperial  fish,'  for  they  are  marked  with 
a  hand  on  their  heads  like  a  diadem."  Here,  1  would 
ask  naturalists  whether  any  fish  is  known  in  Babylo- 
nia,  answering  to  the  above  description,  or  at  any  rate 
characterized  by  a  remarkable  band  of  colour  on  the 
head  ?  However  that  may  be,  I  proceed  to  examine 
the  words  of  the  text. 

Nunu,  fishes,  as  in  Heb.  and  frequently  in  Assyrian. 
Itsuru,  kings :  from  Heb.  "^v*  itsur,  imperium :  and  as 
a  verb  it  meaus  imperavit  (Ges.  788).  .  j    :..  ; . 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OP    NBBUCHADNEZZAR,        349 

It  also  occurs  in  Assyrian  :  as,  in  the  dedication  of  a 
tablet,  Usri  dandanni,  "  unto  the  all-powerful  king." 

Wesumu,  1  named  lliem ;  from  Heb.  ^^^  sum,  a 
name:  very  frequent  in  Assyrian. 

Pila  is  in  the  two  other  passages  written  bila.  Adopt- 
ing the  latter  reading,  it  is  most  probably  the  Heb.  71, 
the  root  of  772,  maculavit,  Ges.  151  (which  becomes 
simply  71  in  the  derived  word  72n,  tabul^  maculatio). 
Pi/a  would  therefore  signify  marked  or  striped. 

Simat,  a  diadem,  is  a  very  common  Assyrian  word. 
Apparim  seems  evidently  to  be  the  Heb.  "iDM,  apar^ 
a  band  round  the  head.  Ges.,  p.  89,  renders  it  'fascia 
frontem  tegens,'  also  '  tegumentum  capitis.'  Thus  all 
the  words  agree  in  indicating  the  meanina;  which.  I  have 
given^  or  at  any  rate  something  nearly  similar, 

The  following;  lines  are  obscure;  we  will  therefore 
pass  on  to  1.  22,  where  we  find  the  king  speaking  of 
ati  zallu,  the  revolted  cities. 

This  is  from  Heb.  77T,  to  shake  off,  viz.  the  yoke, 
which  word  is  sometimes  added.  The  names  of  the 
revolted  cities  are  then  given,  Tuhimmu,  etc.  This 
appears  to  have  been  a  religious  revolt,  not  against  the 
authority  of  the  king,  but  against  the  worship  of  Mar- 
dul*.  There  are  many  indications  in  the  inscriptions 
of  the  existence  of  a  powerful  minority  who  rejected 
ihe  established  idolatry.  The  king  however  put  down 
the  revolt  and  re-established  the  worship  of  Marduk^ 
which  he  compares  to  a  beneficent  stream,  fertilizing 

tthe  land.  Similar  things  are  stated  in  the  inscrip- 
tion of  Esar-Haddon  (B.  M.  pi.  45.  I.  42^54),  about  a 
religious  schism  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Babylon.  Of 
the  cities  here  named,  Beth-Kubati  is  named  in  Sen- 
oacherib's  inscriptions  as  Beth-Kubitti,  and  Bitali  is 


350  TRANSLATION    OF 

probably  Bittutu,  where  SeDnacberib  fought  a  battle 
with  Susubi  the  Chalybsean. 

'  26.  Kima  mie  nari  la  nibim  As  with  w^«n  from  stresms 

nomberleeB 
-  S7.  in  palikh  Mardak  a  Zar-         With  the  worship  of  Mardnk 
panita  and  Zai'panita 

28.  bieli-ya  lu-dasham  my  lords.  I  fertilized  them 

Palikfu    See  BeUino*8  facsimile  for  this  word.  . 

The  goddess  Zarpanita  was  the  wife  of  Marduk. 

Udasham  is  the  same  as  udaska,  the  final  m  being 
frequently  euphouious.  Probably  from  Heb.  WITT, 
dosha,  to  make  green,  to  cause  to  grow;  which  the 
streams  of  water,  just  mentioned,  would  do.  It  there- 
fore makes  a  harmonious  metaphor. 

29.  papakha  subat  bellati-ea  The  chapel  which  is  the  dwell- 

iog  of  his  Majesty  (viz.  JfanAut) 

30.  kboraesi  namram    shalla-         With  shining  gold  splendidly 
rirh  lu-stakkan.  I  adorned. 

31.  bab  khilit-zQ  khurasei  we-        The  gate  which  encloses  it  I 
shalbiahu.  covered  with  gold. 

32.  Bit  ana  Zarpanita  bilti.ya  A  temple  unto  Zarpanita  my 

lady 
S3,  kasvam  wezahin.  With  haogings  I  adorned. 

.  34.  Bit  Zida,  subat  Sarikiniir,         The  temple  of  Zida  which  is 
Kiya,  the  dwelling  of  the  god  Sarikimir 

and  the  goddess  Kiya 

A  verb  seems  wanting  at  the  end  of  this  sentence 
with  the  sense  of  "  I  embellished." 

Namram,  usually  namri.     The  m  is  euphonious. 
.  Aahtakkan,  elsewhere  ashdakkan.    The  ska  conjuga- 
tion  of  dak,  to  make  bright.    Syriac  H31.  purus.    This 
verb  must  be  carefully  distinguished  from  ashtakan,  I 
commanded,  I  set  up ;  which  is  quite  another  verb. 

Khilitzu  from  M73  clausit.  Bab  khilit'ZU,  porta  clau- 


AN    INaCRIPTiON    OF    NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 


351 


I 


dens  eura  (sacellum).  We  find  this  word  In  the  inscrip- 
tions of  Ashurakhbal ;  ana  heih  khUi  la  isaTra^',  he 
shall  not  break  with  violence  into  the  closed  apart- 
ments (or  harem]. 

Kxisvam  may  be  tapestry ;  from  rTD3,  texit,  velavit 
[  8e  ;  in  Syriac,  to  dress,  clothe. 

Kiya  was  probably  wife  of  the  god  Sarikimir.  MTi, 
in  Clialdee,  signities  life.  Another  form  in  Hi;brew  is 
mn,  kkevah  or  hevah,  which  sigiiifies  life,  and  is  also 
the  name  of  Eve,  vul^.  Heva.  It  is  stated  in  Gene- 
sis that  Eve  was  so  called  because  she  was  the  mo- 
ther of  all  living.  The  above  etymology  is  generally 
admitted  (see  Ges.  p.  322),  It  is  therefore  curious  to 
find  that  there  was  a  Babylonian  goddess  of  the  same 
name :  although  it  may  be  quite  accidental,  since  the 
name  of  her  husband  is  unlike  any  Biblical  name.  The 
name  TTin  is  also  found  in  the  great  E.  I.  H.  inscrip- 
tion. 

The  name  Sarikimir  is  quite  uncertain.  Perhaps  it 
should  be  read  sar  sari  kimir,  king  of  all  kings ;  in 
that  case  it  would  be  the  title  of  some  deity,  and  not 
his  proper  name.  A  verb  is  wanting  after  line  34, 
such  as  "  I  built,"  or  "  I  repaired." 


I 


33.  papakha  Nabiu  sha  klreb 
Betb-Shag^gatbu 

36.  sibba-su,  Et^m-Eu,  u  bttb- 
Daku-  9U 

37-  kharaABi  weebEilbiehu 

38.  Bit  kioia  tamu  la-nsjucair. 


The  chapfl  of  Nebo  which  is 
witfaio  the  cbief  temple 

itB  thrones,  its  miiuarelsP  and 
ito 

Vitb  gold  I  covered 

and  that  temple  itself  I  mtidle 
as  epletidid  as  the  sun< 


The  last  line  occurs  frequently.  The  phrase  ia 
sometimes  tarnish,  sometimes  as  here,  kima  tamUt 
"  like  the  day,"  i.e.  like  the  sun,  the  god  of  day,  as 
was  6rst  remarked  by  Dr.  Hincks. 


352 


TRANSLATION    OF 


39'.  Bitticl-ki  zikumt  Baliikm 

40.  in  khidati  u  riahati  ebus. 

41.  Babilam  niakbasb  bel  rabu 
Mardul; 

42.  ImgTir-Bel  bit-dur-eu    ra- 
bam 

43.  weahaklil. 

44.  in  ...  .  gab  babatt   rabati 
rimu  eri 

45.  eikdutuu  usbir  (if) /^^Ai- 
ni/)  sbatzatzati  ushazit^. 


The  temple  of  the  Planet  wbieh 
is  the  lower  of  Babylon. 

with  joy  and  deligUt  I  built. 

Id  Ba'iylon  the  choaen  city  of 
the  ^eat  lord  MeirdLtk, 

Imgur-Bel  hiB  m^^iticent 
dwell  in  g'-place 

I  finished. 

Od  the  . . . ,  ■  ofthe  great  gatei, 
buSla  of  bronze 

bright  and  shining- ;  and  vabirg 
Bkilfully  carved,  I  fixed  up. 


The  planets  were' called  the  divine  H.  At  Borsippa 
was  the  zikurat,  or  tower  of  the  seven  planets,  now  the 
Birs  Ninirud. 

Kkidati  and  Hshati  are  generally  named  together: 
the  first  1  derive  from  M"in,  khada,  gaiidium:  the  second 
frommn.  ritsa  or  risha,  delight. 

Makkash  is  sometimes  a  city,  sometimes  a  temple- 
city,  or  a  temple  simply.  These  temples  appear,  how- 
ever, to  have  been  usually  fortified. 

The  Imgur-Bel  is  constantly  spoken  of.  I  imagine 
imguT  to  be  an  old  Hamltic  word  like  vnga,  a  king, 
imduk,  glorious,  etc, 

Dur,  a  habitation,  Heb.  mi,  iiabitavit. 

Rabam,  the  final  m  enphonious. 

....  gab:  the  first  syllable  seems  doubtful.  If  the 
word  hmashgab,  that  would  mean  the  'summit/  Heb, 
2yir^,  Ges.  622. 

In  the  inscriptions  of  iN'ebuchadnezzar  the  conve- 
nient sign  for  the  plural  jw^  is  seldom  employed.    In 

order  therefore  to  express  the  plural  of  a  word,  it  was 
written  twice.  But  this  was,  of  course,  found  very  in- 
convenient when  the  word  was  a  long  one,  and  there- 


AN    INSCUIPTION    OF    NBBUCBADNBZZAR.        363 


I 


I 


fore  they  contented  themselves  with  repeating  a  part 
of  it.  Thus  tiie  plural  of  usbir  was  written  usbir  bir 
(see  line  45).  Nevertheless  in  another  inscription  we 
rind  usbir  usbir.  Similarly  I  think  that  immir  mir  ia 
Col.  iii.  1-  12,  stands  for  immir  immir,  the  plural  of 
immir,  whatever  that  word  may  mean. 

Rimtt  I  have  translated  hulh,  but,  1  believe,  they  were 
properly  buffaloes.  Heb.  D'n,  rim,  a  buffalo  (Job  xxxix. 
9).  The  Assyrian  for  a  buffalo  appears  to  be  am,  and 
the  plural  is  mn  followed  by  the  plural  siga  which  is 
mentioned  in  the  last  page. 

Instead  of  this,  our  inscription  employs  the  redupli- 
cate fonn  am  am,  as  in  the  case  of  all  other  plurals. 
But  in  the  E.  I.  H.  inscription  this  plural  word  ia 
written  rimu.  It  may  be  objected  that  this  was  a  dif- 
ferent term  for  the  same  thing ;  but  it  so  happens 
that  a  transcript  exists  of  this  portion  of  the  great 
hieratic  inscription  into  vulgar  characters,  and  this 
transcript  replaces  rimu  by  am  am. 

It  will  be  sufficient  to  point  out  this  anomaly  with- 
out dwelling  further  upon  it. 

Erif  bronze,  may  be  compared  with  the  Latin  *s, 
(sris,  ara;  so  may  also  the  adjective  irirm  with  €ereus. 

Eikduti.    See  Note  A  at  the  end  of  this  paper. 

Usbir,  probably  some  animal.  Usbir  shatzui^uti  is 
also  found  in  Neriglissar,  line  26.  This  adjective  is 
the  Heb.  san,  to  cut.  sh  ia  written  for  kh,  as  fre- 
quently happens.  But  the  verb  IHSp,  to  eut,  also  de- 
serves consideration. 

Ushazits  or  weskazits  is  a  very  cominoQ  verb,  always 
distinctly  meaning  "  I  tixed  up  firmly/'  as  a  sculptured 
tablet,  a  bronze  imagE,  etc. 

It  is  the  sha  conjugation  of  the  Heb.  Tty,  '  corrobo- 


354 


TRANSLATION    OF 


ravit,firmapit.'  The  root  is  TV, 'robur,  fortitude. '  Gese- 
nius  also  gives  the  reJuplicate  form  ny  of  the  same 


meamug. 

46,  khirit-zuakhnu,  subul  Tfiie 
aka'ut. 

47.  kibir-8u  ia  azarat  duya  u 
libial  gushurra. 

48-  lu  u-buu. 

49.  zoTHtl  kibrl-slia  kur  dali 

50.  ^ha  kiuitk  »g&ttu  lauttaSSU 

5 1.  in  azarutduya  u  libi&l  gu- 
shurra  we^hubish. 


1  du^»  its  tnoat,  but  I  covered 

over  the  flowing  stltatn  of  Craters, 

its  mound  with  {stroaff  build- 
ing materiafs) 

I  built. 

Its  zarati  

which  like 

with  (strong  building  material*) 
I  ^nislicd, 


Akhriu,  I  dug,  khirit,  the  moat :  both  words  from 
mil,  k'arah  or  kerah,  to  dig.  The  moat  of  the  city  is 
probably  meant. 

Subul,  the  3ow  :  froci  Heb.  ^tT,  6uxit. 

Mie,  -waters.     Heb.  "^3. 

Akmt,  I  covered  over:  from  Heb.  HDJ,  'texit,  ope- 
niit/  In  Chaldee,  *occuItus,  abBconditusfuit.'  Ex.gr. 
1D5?3  ^TiOy\  eumque  (sangiiinera)  operiat  terra.  The 
final  t  is  probably  obtained  from  the  substantive  mD3, 
operimentum,  tegumentum. 

Kibir,  a  mound,  related  to  13p. 

Guskurra,  beams  of  wood,  occurs  frequently:  from 
root  "ity:i. 

Libi,  bricks. 

The  whole  line  occurs  frequently,  and  appears  to 
be  a  standing  phrase  for  "  good  building  materials." 

Zarati  is  a  tent  or  pavilion. 

Kibri,  perhaps  lofty,  123,  gibir,  superbiit:  and  Arabic 
adjective  superbus  (Gea,  194). 


AN    IN3CEIPT10N    OP    NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 


355 


Column  II. 


Line   1 .    Astak   masharti    btt- 

2.  limou  aha  ak  gi  aa  , 

3.  a&Q  Bnbilam  la  tsanag^m 

4.  eha  manama  £ar  mfi'krLEii  la 

iboBH 

5.  in  kabat  Babilam  :  kar  dali 


6.  balar  ehemesh  utdu    Babi- 
lam, weehaskir. 


Whcti  the  rest  of  the  great 
Temple  bad  been  repaired 

(/  moiit)  the  sheet  of  water  for 
its  fishpotidA 

in  Babylon,  of  such  ample  size 

as  no  former  kin^  had  ever 
done 

among  the  flehponds  of  Baby- 
lon; {in^  with  a  w^l  of  good 
flat  bricks 

I  enclosed  the  (other)  sheet  of 
water  on.  the  E&st  of  Babylon. 


I 
r 


Masharti,  perhaps  from  root  a/tar, IHII?,  reliquus  fuit, 
remansit. 

LimnH  resembles  in  sound  the  Greek  Xtfivrf.  Neri- 
glissar  in  his  inscription  complains  that  an  ornamental 
gate  had  been  destroyed  by  the  limnu,  and  by  enemies. 
This  may  be  a  flood  of  water,  for  in  the  same  inscrip- 
tion he  speaks  of  the  river  overflowing,  and  being  a 
source  of  danger  to  the  palace. 

Ak  gi,  in  this  passage:  but  in  the  E.  I.  H.  inscrip- 
tion it  is  ^i  ak.  Ak  seems  an  old  word  for  water, 
well  known  in  the  Indo-Germanic  languages,  as  in  old 
German  aocA,  ach ;  Latin  aqua.  Also  it  seetns  to 
have  been  an  old  Semitic  word,  for  we  find  akiii  used 
for  an  aqueduct  twice  in  the  inscription  of  Neriglissar, 
Col.  IL  lines  6  and  8. 

&i,  a  reservoir  of  water,  Heb-  H'^a  and  tj.  Accord- 
ing to  Ges.  p.  20S,  the  root  H^3  means  confiux'U  aqua; 
atid  ""a  vallis,  ob  aq'td  ibi  confittente  dicta. 

La  tsanat/am,  by  no  means  confined  or  restricted : 
from  Heb.  t^anak,  p32,  Ges.  869,  which  is  used  in 
Assyrian  to  express  things  that  are  confined  or  shut 


356 


TRANaLAPION    OP 


up :  not  confined  in  a  narrow  space,  but^  on  the  con- 
trary, ample.  Tliis  negative  mode  of  expression  is  very 
much  used  in  Xebuchadnezzar'a  inscriptions.  He  says 
a  thing  was  not  stnall,  where  the  reader  is  to  under- 
stand it  was  very  large  and  handsome. 

Ma^'rim,  usually  makri.    The  final  m  euphonious. 

Rabat,  plural  o^  kaha.  This  is  douhtless  the  word 
M^,  gaha^  a  fish-pond,  used  by  Ezekiel  (Ges.  189). 
With  this  account  compare  that  given  in  the  great 
E.  i.  H.  inscription  (vi.  22),  which  appears  to  relate  to 
the  same  work.    We  there  read  ; 


Gi  ak  anti  imguT'Bel  kar  Bi- 

Lilu  La  dakhi. 


aho.  manaina  ear  makri  la  ibuau. 


4O00  am  mat  g&gari 


ll  made)  a  €«hpond  in  Img-ar- 
Bel  wliich  i»  the  cbief  tetnp]e  f 
Buliylon,  and  I  made  by  no  m^ani 
a  small]  one  i 

which  no  former  king  had  «cr 
dune  itie  like  of: 

of  4000  square  cubits  in  sor- 
face. 


Here,  instead  of  ah  gi^  we  have  gi  ak:  instead  of 
la  tsanagam,  not  confined,  we  have  !a  dakhi^  not 
small:  in  proof  of  which  the  measurement  is  given, 
4000  square  cubits. 

Dalchi  is  a  word  to  which  there  are  two  Hebrew 
roots  related,  pi,  minutus,  tenuis,  exilis,  and  N3"T  of 
nearly  the  same  meaning,  pn  is  used  of  the  air  (aura 
tenuis),  of  the  lean  kine  and  ears  of  corn  in  Genesis, 
and  of  various  other  things  poor  and  contemptible. 
The  same  boast  occurring  {that  no  former  king  hnd 
done  the  hke)  further  tends  to  identify  the  works 
spoken  of. 

Returning  to  our  inscription,  Col.  II.  1.  6,  we  have 
lalar,  for  which,  in  the  E.  L  H.,  we  find  halri  (see  I. 
28,  kar  dali   balri  shemesh  utdu  Dabila  weshaskh}. 


AN     INSCRIPTION     OF    NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 


357 


7.  khirit-£u  akhria 

8.  k)bir-fu   in  azarut  duya   u 
libial  gus hurra 

9.  wezakkJr  ktiurstinUb. 


But  aootber  passage  substitutes  palga  for  halar,  which 
appears  to  be  the  Heb.  and  Syriac  palga,  from  27D,  to 
cut ;  here  meaning  an  artificial  piece  of  water  obtained 
by  cutting  or  excavating  the  earth 

Shemesh  utdu,  the  rising  sun.  This  verb  occurs 
rather  t'requently. 

I  dag  its  ffiaftt : 
Its  mound  in   {Mrong  building 
malerials) 

I  buih  in  a  workman-like  man- 
tier. 

We  had  this  before  (Col.  I.  46),  but  with  the  va- 
riant ahnu,  I  built,  (Heb.  banak,  n32,  to  build,)  instead  of 
wezakkir.  This  comparison  determines  the  meaning 
of  the  verb  wezakkir ;  which  is  very  important,  since 
that  is  the  verb  employed  in  the  controverted  passage 
ic  the  Birs  Nimrud  inscription,  where  it  is  said  that  an 
ancient  king  began  to  build  that  temple,  and  42  hu 
wezakkir,  but  did  not  finish  its  upper  part  {la  wevalla 
risha-sha).  Now  Sir  II.  RawUnson,  Dr.  Hincks,  and 
myself  translate  42  ku  wezakkir  "  he  built  it  to  the 
height  of  42  cubits,"  while  M.  Oppert  insists  that  it 
means  "42  ages  are  reckoned  since  that  time:"  from 
which  he  infers  that  the  Birs  Nimrud  was  the  veri- 
table Tower  of  Babel.  He  obtains  this  sense  froni 
the  Heb.  ^Jt,  zakar,  commemorare:  but  his  transla- 
tion of  hu  as  ■mtas,  or  a  cycle  of  years,  is  quite  ar- 
bitrary. 

Now»  not  here  only,  but  in  several  other  passages 
of  the  E.  I.  H.  inscription,  wezakkir  means  plainly 
adijicare:  for  instance,  see  Col.  Vlll.  line  1, 

10.  itat  Esbilam  sibik  i«bdi  The  circuit-walU  of  Babylon 
rabati  bs  a  monad  of  earth  oa  &  very 

wide  base 


858  TBAN8LATI0N   OF 

11.  Bstappak-so.  I  piled  them  up. 

13.  mili  kaAham  mie  rabati  With  an  agitated  flood  of  wide 

waters 

13.  kima  gibishti  yamti  like  the  glassy,  waves  of  the 
weshalmieh.                                       sea.  I  protected  them.* 

14.  apparim  lustaskir-su.  with  banks  of  clay  I  aarroimded 

it  (vir.  thiajlood). 

15.  aaa  shada  nabishti  nissut  to  rejoice  the  spirit  of  the  peo- 
Babilam  aakanu.  pie  of  Babylon  I  made  it. 

Ttat  in  several  passages  appears  to  mean  a  circuit- 
wall.  It  is  a  doubtful  word,  but  it  seems  related  to 
itie,  which  certainly  means  the  frontiers  of  a  laud : 
the  circuit  or  boundary  of  a  field  or  property. 

Sibik,  a  heap  of  earth :  from  Qtl?,  shapak^  efiudit. 

Ashtappak,  verb  of  the  t  conjugation :  from  the  same 
root. 

Ishdi,  foundations :  from  ID'',  fundavit  (aedificium). 

Mili,  a  flood :  from  M^,  plenitudo. 

Kasham,  part,  from  kasha,  to  be  agitated,  to  be  in 
violent  motion.  In  Heb.  the  verb  ia  MTTt,  moveri 
motu  interno  vekementiore,  Ges.  327. 

Gibishti  appears  to  have  been  their  name  for  glass. 
Heb.  tt>''23,  gibish,  KpvtnaXKos,  and  glades  (ice),  Ges. 
192.  It  iawell  known  that  Lat.  vitrum  meant  both 
glass  and  a  colour  (greenish  blue).  So  the  English 
glass  and  Latin  glades  are  related  to  the  Celtic  Welsh 
glds  (green  or  blue). 

Window-glass  and  ice  are  both  sea-green  when  seen 
through  a  considerable  thickness,  and  so  are  the  waters 
of  the  sea. 

Yamti  or  imti,  the  sea.  Heb.  D'',  mare.  Chaldee 
MO''.     Imti  is  merely  HD^  or  TO"'. 

Weshalmish  for  weshalmi-su,  I  made  it  safe ;  t.  e.  1 

*  i.  e.  from  the  assaults  of  eaemies. 


AN    INSCBlPTlOi^    OF    MfiBUCHADNEZZAtl. 


359 


made  the  wall  secure  from  the  attack  of  eneii)ie&,  by 
inundating  the  country  around  (probably  this  was  done 
only  in  the  time  of  war)  ;  for  the  E.  I,  H.  has  more 
plainly,  mada  weskalmi,  I  made  the  country  secure 
(VI.  43).  The  root  Is  DTtt?,  salvare.  Here  is  the 
passage  (VI.  39) : — "  Lest  the  enemies  should  attack 
by  surprise  the  immense  circuit  of  Babylon  {itie  Babilu 
la  tsanaga),  I  made  the  country  safe  with  mighty 
floods  of  water  resembling  the  waves  of  the  sea  :  mie 
rahuti  hima  yih'ishti  amati  mada  weskalmi."  The  account 
in  the  E.  I.  H,  then  goes  on  to  say  that  the  banks  of 
this  flood  on  the  outer  side  were  like  the  banks  or 
dunes  of  some  great  sea,  and  moreover  strengthened 
with  a  strong  brick  wall.  There  was  therefore  a  double 
enceinte  of  works  round  Babylon. 

Lustaskir,  composed  of  the  usual  particle  lu  and 
ustas/dr,  the  t  conjugation  of  the  verb  '*  to  surround." 
Another  conjugation,  usaslir  or  weshashkir,  occurred^ 
Col.  II.  1.  6. 

When  an  enemy  approached  Babylon,  it  was  possible 
to  defend  it  by  inundating  the  country,  and  this  flood, 
"with  a  fresh  breeze,  might  beat  against  the  walls.  Never- 
theless, I  suspect  a  little  Oriental  hyperbole. 

The  line   15,    'ana   shada  nabishti  nissut  Babilam 

askunu.*  is  difficult.     But  we  must  be  guided  by  the 

parallel  passage  in  E.  I.  H.  (VI.  39),  which  speaks  of 

ftshe  enemies  (yabt)  of  BabySon,  and  says  these  waters 

"Were  a  defence  against  them.     Therefore  this  etfectual 

protection  may  be  here  spoken  of  as  ijiinng  courage 

to  the  people  of  Babylon,  or  rejoicing  their  spirit. 

■      Shada  may  be  Heb.   mn,   khada,   gaudiuni,  with 

the  usual  change  of  i'h  into  sk.     At  tirst,  however,  I 

gave  to  this  passage  an  opposite  signification,  viz,, 

VOL.  VII.  2  B 


I 
I 


360 


THANaLATION    OF 


of  the  lives  of  the  enemies  of 


*'  for   the   destruction 
Babylon,  I  made  it." 

Shada,  destruction.  In  Heb.TtT  and  TITZ?,  exitium, 
and  as  a  verb,  perdidit,  truddavit,  etc.  And  I  tind 
the  word  nlssut  used  for  "enemies"  in  Tigtath-Pileser, 
IV.  49,  where  that  king  marches  against  the  kings 
and  nations  nissuii  or  hostile,  who  dwelt  by  the  Upper 
Sea.  The  root  seems  to  be  the  Heb,  rKI2,  /titsahy  which, 
in  Psalm  Ix.  2,  means  helium  gessit.  See  Geis.  682. 
Sedjudicei  lector. 

Tn  the  ^eat  lenjples  of.  Chal- 
df^a  and  M eAOpotamia 

I  augmented  the  oflefings, 

Buta}i  may  be  from  skatakh,  TT^Tl?,  expandit,  extendit 

(cnanus),  etc. 

The  temple  of  Zida,  that  splen- 
did teuaple  in  Boreippa 

I  huilt  again.     Its  cedar  roof 

with  ehining  gold  I  covered. 

With  gold,  fcUver,  and  preciou 

StOCLCS 

(incrueted)     upon     meahkaMta 
wood  a.[id  cedar  wood 

I  adorned  ita  habitation.    Na1!>« 
and  Niiiiaya 

in  joy  Qtid  delight, 

seated  on  loftvthron«9,  wJti» 
it  1  caused  to  dwell. 

The  above  does  not  seem  to  require  many  reniarks 
The  syllables  sib  and  lib  appear  to  me  to  he  us^erf 
quite  inditfereutly.    The  Hebrew  roots  correspond] 

are  nt?  or  a'J^''  and  ^h.     The  meaning  of  the  first    * 
a  seat,  dwelling,  or  habitation:  that  of  the  second,  i 


16,   la   makbash   tnada  Suoilr 
a  Akkadim 

If.  Butak  weshatir. 


18.  Belh-Zida,  beth   kinu   in 
Barzipa 

19.  ewnsish      ebus:        erinu 
2u]tili-su 

20.  khurussi  Damraai  wesbal- 
bish. 

2'!-  in  khur&Bsi,  kaspa,  abnam 
ntaikti 

S2.  era  its  meshknnna  ennu 

23.  wesahin  siVm-Bu,  Nabiu  u 

Nanaya 

24.  in  khidati  u  rishali 

25.  fiuliat    tap   libbi    kirbn>Eu 
weshasib. 


AN   INSCRIPTION   OF  NEBUCHADNEZZAR.        361' 


heart.     In  Assyrian  each  of  these  two  roots  has  these 
two  meanings. 

26.  ahi  tamo  I  go,  makhebara, 
gaBol 

27.  XVI  pasilli  bitruti 

28.  gadu  aha  ilim  Barzipa 


29.  iaikh  dodq  itBtim  wesama 

30.  biia  simat  apparim 

31.  daspam  aire  as  kurunna 

32.  tikar  sata  karanatn  eiUam 

33.  diahpa  khimiti  aits  bamnl- 
sha  amoa. 

See  Col.  1.1.  19  to  22. 

34.  Palikh   Nabia  n    Nanaya 
bieli-ya 

35.  ^  aha  pana  wedakbit. 

36.  aha    tama  VIII  1u    gioi 
Nergal, 

37.  Laab,  ilim  aha  Bit-Mialam 
n  Tlgga  nkin. 

38.  taattuk  ilim  rabim  uapar- 
zikha 

39.  eli  gini  labri  ^a  weahatir. 


Every  day  (/  distributed)  one 
Btriped  ox,  and  one  spotted  ox. 

and  16 

the  portion  of  the  gods  of  Bor- 
sippa, 

isikh  fifib.  which  I  called  king- 
fiah. 

striped  with  a  band  on  the  head 
like  a  diadem. 


The  worship  of  Nabo  mi  Na- 
naya,  my  lords, 

more  than  before  I  extended. 

Every  day  eight  sheep  anto 
Nergal  and  Lash, 

tbe  deities  of  the  temple  of 
Miahlu  and  Tigga,  I  sacrificed. 

The  jnst  rights  of  those  great 
gods  I  (auffmenied  ?) . 

In  excess  of  the  former  sheep 
I  added  one  sheep  more. 

Palikh :  see  the  facsimile  for  this  word. 

Gina,  a  sheep.  In  Chaldee  \y  and  |My;  but  in  Heb. 
IMS,  tsina,  and  so  in  the  Assyrian,  as  written  at  Ni- 
*ieveh.  (Tsade  et  Ain  pro  more  permutatis,  Schaaf, 
l».  398.) 

Chaldee,  emphatic  May,  gkina,  if  we  give  to  V  the 

Jbrce  of  ghain.     Another  Chaldee  form  is  |My.     This 

lias  mnch  resemblance  to  the  Greek  name  for  a  sheep 

{oiv  in  the  accus.  case).     And  the  Welsh  peasantry 

2b2 


363 


TflANSLATION    OF 


call  it  oin  at  the  present  day.    That  ancient  language 
contains  many  Greek  words. 

Tsattuk,  porlio  justa.     Heb.  rip^,  isadiAa,  rectum, 
jus. 

The  temple  of  Tara  in  .  -  .  citr, 
unto  the  Sun  aild  Mooq 

my  lords,  T  cnnstpucted  nnev. 

Tine  temple  of  Tara  ia  Suarsain 
CLtTi  unto  tbe  Sua  anil  Moon 

my  lords,  I  constructed  a&ew. 

The  temple  of  the  Naik-tree  in 
the  city  of  Mtigheir,  ubto  the 
Moon,  tbe  lord, 

tbe  supporter  of  my  roj'iil 
power.  I  constructed  anew. 

Tbe  temple  of  the  Eyefl  of  Ana 
in  the  city  of  Bel,  qnto  Ilj 

fliiy  lord,  1  eonstmcted  anew. 

the  temple  of  Kugina  in  the  ritj 
of  Maah,  uolo  Bel  Zarbi 

my  lord,  1  constructed  anew. 


40.  Beth  Tara  aba  Takiprat-ki 
ana  Shc^metf'h  u  Yo 

41.  hieli-ya  esanaish  ehus. 

42.  BetliTarasbaaeSnarfam- 
]d  ana  Shemcsh  u  Yo 

43.  bieli -jQ  eBHnsisb  ebaB. 

44.  Beth    Ue-nuiik    sha 

kij  ana  Sin.  bel 

45.  naram  flarruli-ya  esansiah 
ebuB. 

46.  Betb  Ini-Anu  sba  as  Bel- 
ki,  eina  lb 

47.  Bel-ya  esannisb  ehafl. 

4S.  Beth  Kugina  fiba  ir  Mash 
ana  Bel-Zarbi 

49.  bel-ya  esaiisisli  ebus. 


Yo,  the  moon  goddess,  became  the  To  of  the  Greeks. 

Sin  was  the  lunar  god.  His  came  still  means  mom 
in  Syriac. 

Mugheir  is  the  modern  name  of  tlie  city.  The  an- 
cient name  is  uncertala.  Rawlinson  thinks  it  was  Ur 
of  the  Chaldees.     ('Athenfeura.' April  10,  1862) 

Nebuchadnezzar  here  etates,  that  he  rehuilt  the  tem- 
ple of  the  Nuik-tree,  which  was  dedicated  to  the  Moofl 
in  the  city  of  Mugheir.  At  a  later  period  {see  B.  >t- 
pi.  68)  Nabonidus  repaired  the  same  temple  of  tLe 
Moon,  in  tbe  &ame  city,  which  is  a  beautiful  agre^ 
ment  of  independent  authorities.  One  copy  of  b" 
cylinder  calls  it  the  temple  of  the  Nuik-tree»  the  other 
calls  it  the  temple  of  the  Asuka-tree,  which  therefore 
are  tbe  same. 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OF   NEBUCHADNEZZAR.        363 


The  Eyesof  Anu,  I  think,  meaDt  the  starry  firma- 
ment. I  find  that  in  the  old  Hamitic  language,  Ani 
meant  heaven,  and  therefore  I  conjecture  that  4flu  and 
Ani  were  the  same. 

The  name  of  a  deity  lb  is  given  in  1. 46,  but  I  think 
this  can  hardly  be  correct.  I  should  prefer  to  read  iSt, 
but  then  the  phrase  ought  to  be  Ri,  my  lady. 

The  name  of  the  deity  Zarbi  has  a  slight  resemblance 
to  the  Egyptian  Serapis. 

The  BpleDdid  diadems 
and jewels 

of  Ishtar  of  (X),  the  Lad;  of 
(X)  tnty,  which  were  most  valu- 
able, 

1  restored  to  their  place 
and  gave  them  to  (X)  city. 


50.  Bimati  riahtati 

51.  bellutU  katmati 

52.  sha  Ishtar  (Xj  lu,  bilit  (X) 
ki,  eilUti 

53.  wetir  ashrasstm, 

54.  ana  (X)  ki  shahida-su. 


These  valuable  jewels  had  been  plundered  by  some 
former  king  from  the  temple  of  Ishtar,  in  a  city  of 
whose  name  I  am  uncertain,  and  have  therefore  denoted 
it  by  (X). 

Askruasun.  The  enclitic  pronoun  sun  having  no 
accent,  a  strong  accent  fell  on  the  last  syllable  of 
askni. 

Shahidu  may  be  Heb.  imz^i  donavit,  donum  dedit, 
Ges.  992. 

55.  Ana   Beth-Anna'  labatsa-         la  the  temple  of  Anna,    her 

labtttsa,  I  repaired  the  edi&ce. 
On  the  old  foundation — platform 

of  the  temple  of  Anna 
I  offered  a  burnt- offering, 
(aod)  on  the  old  platform 
I  laid  the  foundations  of  (the 

new  temple). 

Nebuchadnezzar  \aee  next  eo- 

/tfrnnl. 


sha  damikti  wetir, 

56.  timinna  Beth  Anna  labri 

57>  akhit  ahria 

58.  eli  timinni-sha  labri 

59.  hukin  vasftu-sha, 

60.  Nahiu'kudar  ussur. 


B64 


TRANStATION   OP 


Column  III, 


Line  1 .  Ishakku  Km 


(Nebiichadrtezzar)    the 
High  Priest 

the  regtorer  of  the  temples  of 
the  great  g'ods,  I  am  he. 

In    f-W  the  templea  au^  boty 
edilicca 

By  my  high  priestly  authority 

the  wealth  of  Neho  and  Mar- 
duk  my  lords 

I     adniiDistered     dunng'    my 
priesthood. 

(/  appointed)   their  hanflaoine 
isiiiati 

for  noble  sBcrifices. 

With  fat  striped  oxea, 

and  spotted  oxea 

of  well-fed  form. 


2.  zfuiin  makhanh  ilim  rabim 
Roaku. 

3.  Ana      Deth-ghaggatha      u 
Beth-zida 

4.  knkclaya  kayannk 

5.  ashrat    Nabiu    u    Mardtik 
bicli-ya 

G.  Qfitinikba  kayanam. 

7-  isinati-SuD  datng^ti 

8.  akit-zuD  rahti 

9.  iQgamakhe  (;7/vra/){mkluti 
10.  ga  aul  (plural) 

H,  tsnlukhi  damyti. 


Kakdaya,  Conapare  with  this  passage  the  inscrip- 
tion of  Keriglissar,  Col.  I.  13,  where  that  king  says 
that  Nebo  gave  him  the  sceptre  of  justice,  and  Tira 
gave  him  his  kakdu  or  kakkn,  which  therefore  I  think 
was  some  emblem  of  authority.  It  may  however  have 
merely  meant  "full  authority,"  from  nfTT,  law.  the 
middle  letter  being  doubled  in  Hebrew.  This  a  word 
used  in  the  most  weighty  sensej  meaning  decretum 
Dei,  Jus,  lex:  as  lex  coeli,  lex  naturae,  lex  Kterna,  etc. 

It  must  have  been  a  vefy  important  part  of  tbe 
functions  of  the  High  Priest  to  administer  the  great 
wealth  of  the  temples. 

M.  Oppert  derives  kayanam  from  pD,  a  priest,  i« 
which  I  agree  with  him. 

damgatit  in  I.  7,  being  an  adjective^  is  probably  tl^s 
same  as  damguti  in  Col.  I.  17,  "  of  handsome  form.'' 

Ga  sul,  ga  sul,  is  simply  the  plural  of  ga  sul. 


AH    INSCRIPTION    OF    NBBDCHADNEZZAR.        365 


This  reduplication  must  have  been  found  very  in- 
convenient in  long  inscriptions. 

Ga  makhe  is  an  abbreviation  for  maJkhebara, 
Damuti,  Syriac  mm,  6gura. 

tmimV  fish • 


12.  immir  mir  ^kkallam 

13.  wesDinu  bila  nimu  itearu 

14.  simat  apparim. 


I  called  them  the  striped  king- 
fish 

from  Hxe  diadem-band  on  their 
head. 

I  suppose  that  immir  mir  was  a  mode  of  writing  the 
plural  of  immir,  as  usbir  hir  certainly  was  the  plural 
of  usbir. 

NEBUCHADNEZZAR'S  MUSEUM. 


15.  Tibik     sira   as    la    nibi 
mamish,  karanam 

16.  shatti  sha  aminnut si 

u  kaniki, 

17.  in  makhari-sun  etitik. 

18.  nishat        rapshatt       sha 
Mardak  biela 

19.  wemallu  gatu-ya 

20.  ana  Babilam  wekannish. 

21.  bilatmada  mada  bilit  tsatu 

2S.  kiship     tashati     kirba-su 
amkhar 

23.  ana  tailli-eu  dari. 

24.  Kullat       Disbat       dabish 
wepakhir : 

25.  karishim  daliti 

26.  la  nibi  astapak-sD. 


Displayed  in  a  row  on  namber* 
less  tables,  the  offermga, 

those  which  I  have  recounted, 
both  large  and  tmall? 

(each)  in  their  own  repositories 
I  placed  them. 

The  great  marvels  (of  art)  with 
which  Marduk  the  lord 

had  filled  my  hand 

in  Babylon  I  collected  together. 

The  tribute  immense,  immeusei 
of  offered  gifts 

having  counted  ap  their  num- 
ber, I  placed  in  the  treasury 

for  their  eternal  preservation. 

All  those  marvels  I  carefully 
examined 

and  upon  handsome  tables 

without  number,  I  spread  them 
out 


In  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  vol. 
xix.,  p.  124,  I  have  given  a  translation  of  an  inscrip- 
tion of  Ashurakhbal,  in  which   that   monarch  (who 


366  TRANSLATION    OP 

was  a  mighty  hunter)  describes  bis  museum.  He  had 
a  menagerie  of  living  animals,  and  a  collection  pro> 
bably  of  stuffed  ones;  at  any  rate  of  skins,  horns, 
etc.  He  says,  "  The  names  of  the  animals  were  placed 
beside  them."  From  this  inscription  I  was  led  to  in- 
fer, that  the  meaning  of  the  curious  passage  in  the 
text  might  be  something  of  the  same  kind.  The  reader 
must  judge  whether  this  interpretation  of  the  passage 
flows  naturally  from  the  words  employed. 

THbU,  spread  out :  from  Heb.  ITDD,  to  spread.  The 
1st  person  of  this  verb,  atbuk,  I  spread,  is  very  fre- 
quent  in  Assyrian. 

Sira,  a  row.  Heb.  mTtt?,  series,  ordo :  root  JTW, 
ordinavit.     Arabic  m'lU^,  series  lapidum,  a  necklace. 

La  nibiy  without  number,  a  very  common  Assyrian 
phrase. 

Mamisk,  tables,  or  perhaps  shelves,  supports :  from 
DDy,  amesh,  to  support  or  carry :  for  which,  in  one 
passage  of  Scripture,  tt^Dy  is  found.     (Ges.  778.) 

In  mak'hari-sun  ctitik.  In  the  bas-relief  representing 
Sennacherib  receiving  the  spoils  of  Laehish,  the  epi- 
graph says  of  the  spoils,  makhar-su  etik,  "  he  sent  them 
to  his  treasury."  The  verb  is  Heb.  pr\V,  movit,  trans- 
tulit.  It  is  common  in  Assyrian,  and  also  the  other 
conjugations  etitik  and  weskatik. 

Wekannish,  I  collected,  is  exactly  the  Heb.  D33,  ka- 
nish,  coacervavit  tbesauros  ;  used  in  Ecclesiastes. 

Bilat,  a  tribute.  Chald.  fe,  bilu,  '  tributum.'  (Ges. 
150.) 

Tsatu  may  be  the  Heb.  pTt,  the  final  guttural  being 
lost,  as  in  tmu,  it  decayed,  from  po;  for  the  Heb. 
npTTX  meant  a  gift.    (Ges.  856.) 

Kiship,  from  Heb.  P|tl?n,  to  enumerate. 


AN    INSCRIPTION    or    NEBUCHADNEZZAR.        367 


I 


I 


TasJiati,  a  verbal  substantive,  from  VW^,  nasha,  to 
cast  up  a  sum,  or  reckon  its  amount.  Ges.  p.  691, 
says,  '  cepit  summam  :  numerum  inivit:  numeravit.' 

Kiship  tashati  is,  1  think,  like  a  Latin  ablative  abso- 
lute, Bummd  numeratdi  vel  numero  inito.  Registers 
are  often  s|)oken  of,  indeed  they  must  have  been  very 
necessary  in  so  vast  an  empire, 

Ktship  is  used  apparently  for  money  in  the  Sargon 
Cylinder,  I  have  examined  the  passage  at  p.  170  of 
this  volume. 

Amkhur,  I  put  into  a  treasury:  or  simply,  I  received: 
generally  written  amkkar,  from  makkar  a  treasury. 

Tsilli,  protection.     Heb.  h'^,  tsil,  tutela,  praesidium. 

Dari,  Btemal.     Heb.  m,  dar,  Sfeculum,  aetas. 

Kullat,  all.      Ileb.  73,  lul  or  ^ol,  oranis. 

Dabish,  bene.     Root  Chaldee  no,  tab,  bonus. 

Wepakhir,  I  well  examined,  or  I  selected  the  best 
specimens.  Heb.^nn,  bakhir.  Ges,  says,  'probavit,  ex- 
aminavit,  elegit,  delegit.' 

Karishim  (so  in  the  facsimile),  well  made  (alFabr^ 
facti)  :  from  linn,  bearish,  a  workman  in  wood  or  metaL 
Ges.  says,  '  faber  lignorum,'  etc. 

Daliti.  This  word  and  its  cognates  tali  and  taliti  are 
generally  employed  to  denote  planks  of  wood,  slabs  of 
stone,  flat  bricks,  or  other  flat  objects  used  in  building. 
I  think  the  Greek  S^xxej,  a  tablet,  is  hence  derived- 

Astapak,  I  spread  forth,  or  rather,  I  caused  to  be 
spread  :  I  had  them  di&pkyed  :  the  ska  conjugation  of 
nDa,  iapak,  extendit.  The  1st  person  of  the  simple 
conjugation  is  aihuk,  I  spread. 


27.  Ninu-BQ 
lurati-ya 


bit-rab     miahab 


(And  tHen)  by  hiB  favour,  the 
Palace  which  ia  the  dwelling  of 
my  mBJeaty 


368  TRANSLATION   OF 

28.  barka  as  oisBUt  rabati  (and)Bcoartforn)ygreatnoble- 

mea 

29.  Bubat  rishatt  u  khidati  a  dwellmg  of  joy  and  gladnese 
SO.  asbar  katniti  uktaona-su  a  place  surrounded  by  grandeur 
31.  in  Babilam  esassiBh  ebua.          in  Babylon  I  cooBtmcted  anew. 

Mishah  is  often  written  miship :  from  3©^,  sedit,  con- 
sedit,  mansit,  habitavit. 

Barka  should  perhaps  be  marka.  Sennacherib  says 
that  his  eldest  son  Ashumadan  was  brought  up  in  his 
harkoy  which  I  therefore  think  must  be  translated 
court. 

Noblemen  are  frequently  called  nissut  rahatit  or 
rapshati  (great  men). 

Askar  katruti,  etc.  Ashar,  a  place,  (of  which)  tatrv- 
ti-8u,  its  environs,  uktanna,-Bie  grand. 

Katruti,  from  iro,  cinxit,  circumdedit. 

Uktanna,  grand.  In  the  inscriptions,  a  king  often 
says,  *•  in  uktan  libbi-ya," — in  the  pride  or  exaltation 
of  my  heart — I  advanced,  etc.  etc. 

33.  in  ki  gallam  rishtim  In  a  noble  lofty  situation 

33.  in  irat  irziti  rapaabti  upon  a  vast  mound  of  eartb 

34.  in  azanit  daya  u  libial  gu-  with  {the  atrongeat  buUdiug  ma- 
Bburra  teriala.) 

35.  weabarsit  timin-sba.  I  laid  its  foundation  platform. 

Irat,  a  mound,  consisting  of  earth^un^  cUtvm:  either 
from  root  TT',  dejectus  est,  or  else  t3T,  conjecit,  or 
m"",  fundaments  jecit.  The  latter  word  is  used  in 
Job  xxxviii.  6  :  Quis  jecit  (i.  e.  collocavit)  lapidem  an- 
gularem  ejus?  This  lapis  angularis  seems  to  have 
had  the  importance  and  sanctity  of  the  Assyrian  timin. 

Asarut  may  be  from  "itM,  cinxit,  and  may  refer  to  a 
protecting  wall  built  around  the  timtn. 

36.  erinu  daliti  valtu  LAboann  Cedar  planks  fttim  the  noble 
dishti  forests  of  Lebanon 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OF   NEBUCHADNEZZAR.         369 

37.  eilliti,     ana     txu]nli-(^  to  Berre  for  its  roofs,  I  brought 

luablam.  home. 

3S.  kar  dali  with  a  handsome  wall 

39.  in  azarat  daya  n  liUal  made  of  strong  boilding  mate- 
gushtirra  rials 

40.  weshaslur-stL  I  enclosed  it. 

Erinu  is  also  written  imi. 

Dishti,  green  forests :  from  Heb.  k-^ttH,  viror,  j(Kmi. 

Dsululi :  from  773,  to  cover  or  protect.  Ges.  says 
*  obumbravit.'  The  verb  ubla,  sometimes  upla  or  tihlam, 
always  means  I  brought  home.  The  3rd  person  plural 
is  ubihni,  they  brought. 

It  is  the  Heb.  ^sn,  attulit ;  the  root  is  ^V 

41.  Paras  sarruti,  sulukh  bel-  A  royal  oratory  (or  sanctuary) 
luti  and  a  princely  mlukh 

42.  in  libbi-sha  weebapam.  in  the  centre  of  it  I  built  splen- 

didly. 

The  Paras  of  a  temple  appears  to  have  been  the 
sanctuary  of  the  deity.  It  is  derived  from  Heb.  ttns, 
paras,  separavit.  But  here,  being  in  the  palace,  it  was 
probably  the  king's  private  chapel  or  oratory. 

Sulit&h  seems  to  imply  some  lofty  part  of  the  pa- 
lace :  from  Chald.  p7D,  ascendit ;  unless  it  means  the 
great  staircase  leading  to  the  upper  stories  of  the 
palace,  which,  I  believe,  was  generally  called  the  lulie. 

Weskapam,  usually  written  weshapa,  is  often  em- 
ployed for  '  building  in  a  grand  style.'  Thus  in  E.  I.  H. 
"  la  weshapa  arki,"  I  never  built  such  a  work  (t.e.  else< 
where). 

NEBUCHADNEZZAR'S  PRAYER. 

43.  Ashli  gata  wetsalla  bel  With  folded  hands  I  prayed  to 
hieli  the  lord  of  lords 

44.  ana  Marduk  rimini  illiku  and  my  prayer  ascended  unto 
.txuba-ya.  Marduk  the  supreme. 


370 


TRANSLATION    OP 


43,  Bel  maila  mada  Marduk 

46.  aimit-z-U  itbi-ya. 

47.  Bitebua:  lals-ebalusbiiu! 

48.  in  Babilaiq  in  kiirbi-au 

49.  sibutu  lukaut  1 

50.  luaba  littuti 

5\.  fha  sarin  Icibrati 

£2.  eha  kalati  Dishacti 

53.  bilat-zuQ 

£4.  kabitti 

35.  IiimUhur  Icireb-sha: 

56.  libua 

57.  in  kirbi-sha 
58-  ana  tUruli 

59.  taalLimt  gftgeida  Ilbielu! 


the  ]Qrd  exa3te<J,  exalted,  Mw- 
duk 

On    heAring  them,   approached 
to  me'Cl  me.* 

1  have  built  tbis  house :  may  iti 
glon,'  be  g^reat ! 

Id,  BabjloD  within  it 

may  wealth  ever  abound ! 

May  the  revenue  he  ample 

received  from  forei^  kings, 

aad  from  all  the  marTela  (or 
precioius  thing;) 

(ujAicA  ybrni)  their  tribute 

imtnetiiie ! 

May  (all  tbie)   he  treaaureiJ 
within  it ! 

And  may  my  deecendants 

living  within  tbis  palace 

for  evermore 

Over   the  wide   miiveri*   hold 
dominion ! 


The  prayer  seems  to  be  entirely  for  wealth,  splen* 
dourj  aad  power,  1  had  formerly  interpreted  lines  50- 
55  quite  differently.  "  May  this  palace  ever  be  in- 
habited by  a  race  of  warlike  kings,  and  of  virtuous 
women  their  queens  T'  The  words  seemed  to  support 
this  meaning,  viz.  littuti  from  TT,  generare,  or  tVx  , 
proles :  kibrati^  from  *12J,  a  hero,  or  123,  magnus. 

Kalati,  Heb.  "i^n,  virtuous,  as  T"n  rit^N,  uxor  prob^s-i 
nishaeti,  mulieres,  fern,  of  U?3,  homo  {nisht,  homines, 
frequent   in  Assyrian),  and  btlat,  a  queen,  is  a  ve 
frequent  word.    Kabitti,  numerous,    Lumhhur^  may        i* 
(the  palace)  receive,  HTeh-sha,Vi\K\\m  it.    But,  notwitZSJi- 
Btanding  that  this  sense  is  tolerably  well  connect^^4 
1  now  prefer  a  different  one ;  for  most  of  the  won:"*'^' 


*  He  approached  mc  :  he  met  my  prayers ;  t.  e.  he  granted  tt^ffl- 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OP    NEBUCHADNEZZAR. 


371 


I 
I 


have  other  senses,  which  must  be  taken  into  cons!> 
deration. 

The  i-alati  ninhaeti  may  be  the  iuUat  nishat  of  I.  t4 
in  this  column.  Bilat  kabxiti  may  be  the  bilat  mada 
of  I.  21. 

lumkhur,  answering  to  amkkur  of  1.  22  ;  and  kiprati 
is  often  used  for  foreign  nations. 

And  also  because  this  passage  recurs  at  the  con- 
chisioa  of  the  great  E.  1.  H.  inscription,  and  these 
■words  are  there  added :  "  From  East  to  West,  wherever 
the  San  shines, 

foreign  princes  [tjali] 

multipUed  {imigaiUti) " 

The  sense  is  doubtful :  I  would  compare  yali  with 
Heb.  ■'TM,  principes  civitatis.  But  I  adduce  the  pas- 
sage here  to  show  that  "great  tribute  from  all  foreign 
nations"  is  the  leading  idea  of  the  prayer. 

Having  considered  this  preliminary  difficulty,  I  will 
now  examine  some  of  the  words  of  the  prayer,  begin- 
ning with  hne  43. 

Wetsaiia  Is  the  Heb.  \^X  to  pray. 

Rimin,  a  title  of  Marduk :  see  the  E.  1.  H.  (Col.  X. 
1.  I),  *'  kibituk-Ua  riniiau  Marduk,  bit  ebus,'' — In  thy 
name,  O  supreme  Marduk  1  I  have  built  this  house  ! 

The  Rimmoo  of  Scripture,  a  deity  in  whose  temple 
Sennacherib  was  assassinated,  was  probably  the  same 
with  Marduk  Rimin.  The  derivation  from  rimmon,  a 
pomegranate,  is  not  supported  by  evidence. 

Tstthu,  a  prayer:  plural,  tsupie. 

Simit,  a  hearing.     Heb.  yot?,  to  hear. 

Jtbit  he  came  to  meet :  plural  itbuni  This  verb  is 
very  common  in  the  older  inscriptions.  I  beUeve  it 
is  the  t  coajugation  of  Heb.  M2,  venire. 


372 


TRANSLATION    OF 


Lala^  glory,  is  probably  for  afala :  from  Heb.  bVn, 
epleaduit,  celebratu&fuit,  etc.  etc. 

Lusbim=lusba.   (See  lusba  hereafter.) 

Sihut  or  sibutu,  wealth :  from  Heb.  aihuay  3?M?, 
abundantia.  Instead  of  iihutu  luksut,  other  inscrip- 
lions  have  shalbuta  hksu ;  and  the  inscription  of 
Tiglath-Pileser  (Col.  VII.  54)  has  the  intermediate 
form  shabuta.  He  says  in  praise  of  one  of  his  ances- 
tors that  he  always  rehed  upon  the  great  gods,  and  by 
their  favour  he  attained  unto  Wealth  and  Old  Age, 
shabuta  u  lab'iruta  illiku. 

LuksiLt.  The  verb  aksut  has  more  than  one  sense: 
it  usually  means  to  take,  but  also  to  augment  and  to 
clothe.  I  think  the  latter  sense  may  be  received 
here.  From  HDD,  to  clothe,  suhst.  mD3,  a  dress  or 
covering-  The  Assyrians  often  use  the  dative  case 
without  any  distinctive  sign:  thus  ahabuta  signifies 
"  i£n/o  wealth"  in  the  passage  which  I  have  quoted 
from  Tiglalh  Pileser.  In  the  present  passage  I  think 
sibuta  means  "  in  or  with  wealth."  We  then  have 
sihuta  Itiksut,  "may  it  be  clothed  in  wealth!"  or 
otherwise,  *'  may  wealth  be  augmented  within  it!" 

Lusba  Ixttuti,     This  is  varied  in  other  inscriptions 
to  a  prayer  for  shabie  littuti   (abundant:  from  ya.!!?-! 
abundantia),     Hence  I  conclude  that  litsba  is  the  op- 
tative of  that  verb :  "  may  it  be  abundant !" 

Sarin  kibratiy  kings  of  the  nations.     Sennacheril 
ruled  over  malki  ska  kiprati  (Bull  inscription). 

Bdat,  tribute.    Chald.  'hi. 

lAbndy  my  descendants.     Lib  is  properly  the  heart- 
Heb.    37,    but    it   also   means   nepos,  a  descendant 
Thus,  when  Tiglath-Pileser    recounts   bis   ancestoi 
he  says  (Col.  VII.  55)  that  he  was  lib  libbt  of  Kini 


I 


I 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OF    NEBUCHADNEZZAR.         373 

Ninev-bal-ukur.  This  I  have  translated  *'  fourth  de- 
scendant:" Oppert,  "fifth  descendant."  And  Rawlin- 
sotl,  who  says  that  it  literatly  means  keaTt  of  hearts, 
renders  it  "  the  beloved  child."  The  above-mentioned 
king  has  a  name  which  I  think  means,  "  Ninev  love 
the  child  !"  from  ^p>,  carus  fuit. 

Taaimat.  A  great  many  examples  collected  by  Ges. 
and  others  show  that  the  letters  J)  ain  and  3"  tsaddi 
are  permuted  in  Heb.  and  Chaldee.  Thus  Heb.  y*iN, 
terra,  is  inbi  in  Chaldee.  ]M2,  a  sheep^  becomes  tU^J, 
lOS,  wool,  becomes  H"ray :  in  fact  Ges.  calls  this  ere- 
herrima  permutatio.  On  this  principle  I  think  that 
tsalmat  may  be  a  perrautatjon  of  nt27i^,  the  Universe. 
In  Chaldee,  tA'oh:?,  niundus,  sseculum  ;  also  in  Syriac, 
Baecula,  and  even  tempus  seternum.  In  Neriglissar'g 
inscription,  I.  9,  that  monai'ch  says:  Marduk  called 
tne  to  the  sovereignty  of  the  whole  Universe,  "  ana 
ribituti  tsalmat  gagada  ibiesu." 


H      Note  A. — Eri  eiiduti  h  perbapn  the  eame  with  a  frequently-oecur- 

I  rinjf  pbrasc.  eri  tiamri,  sbiiiinif  bni89,  or  polished  bronze.     What 

makes  thi&  tbe  mor^  probable  U,  that  in  anolber  phrase,  tbe  word 

iklu  Tfplnces  namriri.     One  of  tbe  myatJc  titles  of  the  Moon  is.  shaht 

tatnriti,  drinker  of  tbe  divine  sple-ndonrw,  i.e.  reflectiaig  tbe  bg-bt  of 

■  the  Sun.  This  pnetical  idea  is  also  found  in  Anncrcon,  in  tbe  ode 
be^QRinc;  ^  y^  ]i.e\a.Lva  iriyti,  etc.  etc.  Fur  tbe  poet  adds,  after 
giviug  other  examples  of  driikking,  Tar  S^  IjXiav  ai\i)vri.     Tbs  above 

■  phra^?  s/iaku  namriri  oct^urs  QQ  tb^  obebsk,  1.  (i,  aud  the  Monolith, 
I.  4  (see  B.  M.  pi.  27,4).  But  the  Tiglath  Pileser  inscription,  1.  6, 
replaces  it  by  tbe  pbrasc  shahi  ikftt  (the  sign  divint^hemg  prefixed  tO' 
the  latter  word).    Therefore  I  conclude  that  iktu  also  Bigiiified  aplen- 


374 


TaANSLA-TION    OF 


dour,  and  that  eri  eikduti  meant  tMninff  brome.  With,  respect  to 
shaku  la  the  Eibove  phrase,  it  is  the  Heb.  TVTQ},  ^  drink  (Ges, 
1035). 

NoTB  B  (to  Col.  IL  1.  13). — Perhaps  gihiahti  j/amti  means  Rimplv 
"  ihe  waves  of  the  eea,"  and  not  "  (he  crystal  waves  of  the  eet,"  For 
it  appears  from  Ge&.  p.  £34  and  other  aulUorities  that  there  ar«  two 
other  words  in  Heb.  and  Cbaldee  resentbting  this,  and  they  inay  faaFe 
had  n  common  origin.     These  are — 

ni!?T1  dibiskia,  the  hump  of  a  camel,  'gibbue  cameli,'  which  ac- 
cording to  Gee.  is  derived  from 

1I?^1J  ffidiah  or  gidisUa,  acervuB,  tumuJus,  cumulus. 

It  appears,  therefort,  Chat  tbc  word  meaot  any  kind  of  liDRip. 
mound,  heap)  or  swelling-,  and  that  it  was  di^erently  prooouDced  in 
different  placee.  I  should  think,  thongli  Gesenius  does  not  say  m, 
that  the  ultimate  orig;in  was  from  ^  gib  or  guh^  which  naeaDs  gibbtt 
(ae  io  Latin),  also  dorsum  ammaliam,  et£.  Conaidering,  morvov^r, 
that  the  Greek  K^fta.  n  wave,  is  admitted  to  come  frcm  icijecp.  to 
swell,  I  think  that  gibiuhti  in  Col.  II.  1.  13,  may  be  traublated  "  rvreil- 
ing  wavea."  Apparim  in  I.  14,  which  I  have  rendered  "banks  of 
clay,"  ia  the  Heb.  "lEJ?,  terra:  agger  fe  lutn  sive  argillfli  (Ges.  785). 

NoTB  C.  (to  Col,  III.  I.  4). — A  bishop's  mitre  is  derived  from  the 
East,  ^iTjM  being  a  Persian  headdress.    May  not  ihe  crosier  or  croolt 
be  equally  derived  from  tlit  East?     If  so,  the  kakka,  or  emblem  ol 
authority  of  the   Babylonian  high  pri«&t,  may  have  been  a  erusie*". 
An   apt  etymology   is  found   in   the   Hebrew  flP!   olherwise  mni 
a  book  (Gea.  323  and  330). 

Or  if  preferred,  there  is  the  word  TCn  ((he  middle  letter  double 
Ges.  337.     This  word  ttakka  or  khitkka,  also  signifies  "  a  book." 

The  eroaier  occnrs  among  the  Egyptian  hieroglyphics,  and  I  lb  ^S* 
with  the  phonetic  value  of  Ik  or  hik. 

The   inscr'ption    then    s^aya ;     "By    my    high  priestly    author 
asiinikha  aahrat  Kabiu  u  Marduk."  1  adminialcred  the  wealth  of      *''* 
temples  of  thase  g-ods. 

Asiinikha :  probably  fi-om  root  M^n  tanah,  '  dona  distribuit.'    fin- 
dar  calls  the  high  priest  of  Zeus  ra^ita?  Auk,  and  rafttat  mcRos  dis- 
tributer, diBpeneer,  steward,  or  treasurer. 

Aahrat,  the  same  aa  aaher,  ^t^i/  '  divitiae ;'  frequent  in  Hebrew. 


AN    INSCRIPTION    OP    NBBUCHADNBZZAE.  375 

NoTX  D.  (to  Col.  I.  L  4). — Mustalam  akkitt  nimSci,  may  perhaps 
mean  "preserver  of  the  possesaions  of  the  poor,"  an  epithet  implying 
the  king's  clemency  and  benevolence :  for  many  rolerB  had  little 
scrapie  in  appropriating  a  poor  man's  field. 

Muttalam,  from  QTtt^  $alam,  to  preserve. 

Aihiit.  Heb.  jltTlH  oihUta,  possessio  ^inprimis  agromm). 
(Ges.  37.) 

Ntmiki.  Chald.  *p?23  nimtik,  snbmissat,  depressaSi  and  m3''Q3i 
nimikut,  depressio,  aubmissio. 

From  the  root  'TQ,  'TNOj  or  *T1D,  nuk  or  muk,  ad  inopiam 
redactas  est :  pauper  factos  est.  See  Schindler's  Lex.  pp.  980  and 
1124. 

Noni  E. — With  respect  to  the  obscure  passage  id  Col.  1. 1.  21-25. 
it  is  ptwsible  that  the  seven  revolted  cities  made  their  peace  by  pre- 
senting a  handsome  offering  to  the  offended  deities  Marduk  and 
Zarpanita. 

Karanam  may  stand  for  karbanam,  the  ploral  of  'CPp  korbat,  an 
oaring.  If  so,  we  might  translate  line  22,  *'  A  costly  offering ; 
the  offering  of  the  revolted  cities,  Tuhimmu,  Tnmmini,"  etc. 

Similarly  in  Col.  III.  1.  15,  karanam  shatii  seems  to  mean  "  those 
offerings." 


VOL.  VII.  2  c 


376 


XIII.— ON  SOME  INSCRIPTIONS  FROM  CYPRUS  COPIED 
BY   COMMANDER   LEYCESTER,  R.N. 

BT  JOHN    HOGG,    H.A.,    F.R.B.,    HON.    FOR.    SBC.    B.8.L. 

(Read  May  8th,  1861.) 

CoHHANDBR  Lbycestbr,  ID  JuDc,  1849,  madc  a  sur- 
veying excursion  in  the  island  of  Cyprus,  and  disco- 
vered many  inscriptions  in  Greek,  and  three  in  charao 
ters  of  an  unknovm  language,  which  he  carefully  tran- 
scribed. Last  month  that  officer  kindly  sent  to  me 
for  examination  copies  of  two  of  the  latter  inscriptions, 
which  1  here  subjoin,  and  which  are  preserved  in  his 
journal. 

The  first,  No.  I.,  was  observed  by  him  "  on  a  stone 
in  a  catacomb  a  quarter  of  a  mile  east  of  Cucklia, 

where  there  are  seventeen  tombs  in  one  chamber,"  or 
grotto.  Cucklia,  ^  Kovxkta,  Kukla,  or  Konukliat  is 
supposed  to  be  the  site  of  old  Faphos,  Pala  Paphos, 


ON    BOMB    INSCRIPTIONS    FROM    CYPRUS. 


377 


and  it  is  situated  on  the  south-west  of  the  island.    The 
stone  on  which  it  is  cut  is  '^  about  lour  square  teet." 

On  lonking  into  the  Due  de  Luynes'  handsome  book 
entitled,  '  Numisniatique  et  Inscriptions  Cypriotes,' 
which  was  published  at  Paris  in  1852,  I  noticed  that 
the  same  inscription  is  given  in  Plate  XI.  in  three 
transcripts:  the  first  being;  made  by  Baron  Von  Ham- 
mer ;  the  second  by  M .  Pereides,  of  Larnaca,  in  Cyprus  ; 
and  the  third  by  Frotesaor  Ross,  of  Athens,  in  1845. 

Baron  Von  Hanimcr  had  long  before  published  his 
own  copy  in  his  work  named  '  Topograph isc lie  An- 
sichten '  {Wien,  181 1 ,  p.  190,  No.  69) ;  and  he,  at  that 
time,  erroneously  considered  the  characters  to  be  Pha- 
nician  :  all  that  he  says  of  it  is,  "  Piioniciscbe  Inschrift 
aus  der  Grabhbhle  bey  Alt-Paphos." 

The  Due  de  Luynes  esteems  the  third.,  or  that  made 
by  lierr  Ross,  to  be  the  most  accurate. 

On  comparing  those  three  with  the  present  No.  I., 
it  will  be  seen  that  all  the  four  copies  dificr  from  each 
other  in  some  particulars ;  and  it  is  on  this  account 
that  I  have  thought  it  advisable  to  add  Commander 
Leycester's  own  transcript. 

Previous  to  making  any  remark  on  the  supposed 
language  of  these  singular  characters,  since  the  Duke 
has  pubUshed  only  three  inscriptions  in  ail  from  Cyprus 
inscribed  in  the  same  characters, — with  the  exception, 
however,  of  those  from  a  long  tablet  in  bronze  found 
at  Dalin,  J.iXtj',  considered  as  the  ancient  Idalium, 
^IhaKiov,  and  Ihnge  from  the  ancient  coins  of  that  island, 
— I  will  add  the  following  inscription,  No.  II.,  in  the 
same  language,  and  which  Commander  Leycester  has 
kindly  transmitted  to  me,  but  which,  as  far  as  I  can 
yet  learn,  has  never  been  published. 

2c2 


378 


ON    SOME    INSCRIPTIONS 


-tH 


This  last  was  discovered  in  1849,  at  BafFo,  Buipo, 
the  former  Nea  Paphos,  or  New  Paphon,  ou  the  west 
side  of"  Cyprus,  "  cut  in  the  rock  above  the  entrance 
of  an  excavated  chamber ;"  and  "  inside  of  the  chamber 
itself,  also  cut  in  the  rock,  there  is  another  defaced  in- 
scription in  the  same  characters."  This,  however,  Cap- 
tain Leycester  has  not  been  abte  to  find  amongst  his 
manuBcrtpts. 

The  fourth  line  in  the  Due  de  Luynes'  second  in- 
scriptioQ,  Plate  XL,  discovered  by  M.  Pierideg,  at 
Alonia,  is  this  : — 

It  presents  some  resenvblance  to  the  last  line  of  No.  11., 
and  it  possibly  may,  on  interpretation,  be  found  to 
have  nearly  the  same  meaning. 

The  Duke  further  considers  that  the  famous  Isiec 
Tablet  was  made  in  Cyprus,  as  the  Scarabreus  "hu- 
mano  capite,"  figured  on  it,  holds  a  tablet  in  its  (ott 
feet  in  form  very  similar  to  that  bronze  one  which  was 
exhumed  at  Dalin,  and  in  it  he  sees  the  following  cha- 
racters :  ~  Q.  These,  particularly  the  first,  are  pro- 
nounced by  him  to  be  Cypriote ;  but  the  learned  Kircii- 
er^  held  them  to  be  Coptic,  and  he  interpreted  them 
to  be  fbifXo,  tf>vXo,  or  iptko,  love.     I  have  however  «■ 

I  Prod.  Copt.  p.  224:  Rom,  1636. 


FROM    CYPRUS. 


'879 


I 

I 

I 
I 

I 

I 

I 


amined  the  "Table  Isiaque,"  ao  engraven  in  Montfau- 
con's'  large  work,  and  in  the  left  lower  corner  of  the 
border  I  observed  the  man-headed  beetle,  which  is  re- 
versed from  that  figured  by  the  Due  de  LuyneSt  but 
the  letters  are  clearly  neither  Coptic  nor  Cypriote  j  they 
are  these :  '^  o  • 

It  is  impossible  for  me  to  determine  which  of  the 
two  copies  is  the  more  correct,  without  actually  com- 
paring them  with  the  monument  itself.  If  Kircher  he 
accurate,  certainly  his  first  letter  resembles  the  Cypri- 
ote "t;  but  this  is  originally  a  Lycian  letter,  conse- 
quently we  raay,  with  equal  reason,  maintain  that  the 
Jsiac  Tablet  was  manufactmed  in  Lycia,  as  in  Cyprus. 

Besides,  no  sound  argument  can  be  brought  forward 
in  favour  of  that  tablet  being  Cyprian,  from  the  inland 
itself  aboundiag  in  excellent  bronze,  or  copper,  "as 
Cyprium,"  as  Pliny  has  recorded  (Nat.  Hist.  lib.  xxxiv. 
cap.  20) ;  because  E^pt  had  also  celebrated  copper 
mines,  which  she  worked  from  a  very  early  period,  near 
Wadi  Maghara,  in  the  Sinaic  Peninsula. 

At  first,  on  looking  at  the  characters  in  No.  I.,  I 
saw  that  they  were  not  the  cuneiform  letters  of  the 
Assyrian  inscriptions,  but  that  they  seemed  to  bear  a 
greater  resemblance  to  those  of  Fellows's  Lycian  monu- 
ments, two  or  three  being  probably  Phaenidan ;  and,  on 
referring  to  the  Due  de  Luyues'  work,  I  ascertained  that 
they  were  supposed  by  him  to  belong  to  a  language 
which  he  terras  "  Cypriote,"  and  i&  compounded  of  the 
two  latter,  together  with  many  Egyptian  letters. 

The  island  of  Cyprus  having  been  subject  to  the 
Phcenicians  at  a  very  early  period,  then  to  the  Egyp- 
tians for  a  long  lime,  and  afterwards  to  the  Persians, 

'  Plate  J  38,  p.  340,  vol.  ii.  "L'Antiqnite  Expliqufie,'  Paris,  I7ly. 


380 


ON    SOME    INSCRIPTIONS 


it  is  to  be  expected  that  traces  of  those  nations'  re- 
mained in  the  dialect,  or  language,  of  the  island  j  and 
moreover,  the  character  of  the  people  was  always  AsiO' 
tic  rather  than  Grecian. 

The  Duke  gives  a  Cypriote  alphabet  at  p.  45  of  his 
work,  and  in  it  compares  the  letters  with  those  of  the 
Plioeiiician,  Lycian,  and  Egyptian  lang;uage8.  He  like- 
wise  enumerates  that  it  contains  seven  Phoeniciun  cha- 
racters, twelve  Lycian,  and  twenty-seven  Egyptian. 

He  has  not  attempted  any  interpretation  of  the  in- 
scriptions, but  he  suggests,  that  since  No.  I,  is.  ac- 
cording to  the  common  tradition,  cut  upon  a  tomb  of 
a  Queen,  the  chamber  or  sepulchral  grotto  being  called 
6  X-rr^Kaiof  t!]s  'P^yivas, — the  last  word  being  the  Latin 
Regin^,  in  Greek  letters,' — tlie  jir^st  line  ought  to  set 
forth  her  titles  and  proper  nauies,  and  in  the  third  line 
her  father's  and  her  husband's  names  should  occur; 
although  this  is  mere  conjecture,  arising  from  the 
Duke's  great  acquaintance  with  Phosnician  and  otlier 
oriental  inscriptions. 

But  I  should  mention  that  there  is  the  following 
letter,  l-H,  occurring  only  once  in  the  third  line  of 
his  second  inscription,  in  Plate  XL,  wliicb  was  copied 
by  M.  Pierides,  (a  gentleman  of  Larnlca,  who  was 
afterwards  "  employed  to  render  assistance  to  Captain 
Leycester's  survey,")  from  a  place  called  Alonia  tm 
Episcopu,  ra  'AXmvm  roO  'E-TrtuKoiTou,  which  the  Duke 
thinks  (p.  52)  must  be  incorrect,  and  he  cannot  deter- 
mine it.  This  letter  Lortunalely  is  found  to  be  present 
several  times  in  the  inscription  No.  IL,  here  copied  by 
Captain  Leycester,  and  consequently  it  is  correct  in 
the  former  one,  as  made  by  M.  Pierides. 

In  Jhe  long  bronze    tablet  dug  up  at   Diilin,  tliis 
^   Vide  Uerod.  vii.  cap.  90. 


FROM    CTPRUa. 


381 


I 


I 


letter  p-l  is  frequent,  and  it  is  for  this,  I  apprehend 
that  the  Duke  thinks  M-j  to  be  intended,  or  reversed 
and  incorrectly  transcribed ;  but,  as  it  occurs  often  in 
No.  II. » it  is  doubtless  accurate.  The  letter  ^  would 
seem  to  be  Plioenician,  and  signifies  m.  This  will 
be  apparent  by  referring  to  Herr  Rodiger's  paper 
on  Phoenician  Inscriptions,  published  in  Ross's  '  Heli- 
lenika'  (1  Band,  2  pt.  pp.  118-21).  In  one  found  in 
the  churcli  of  St.  Antony,  in  the  village  Cellia  (ra 
KeXXta),  to  the  north  of  Citium,  in  Cyprus,  given  in 
that  work  at  p.  120,  in  tlie  third  line,  this  word  occurs, 

/^   T    ^7    /    ^V  which  is  written  in  Hebrew* 

rrt^ho  Milkarih.  The  whole  inscription  is  thus 
rendered  i — 

**  The  Atahar,  daughter  of  Abd-Eschmun  the  judge, 
the  wife  of  Gad-Milkarth,  son  of  Binchodesch,  son  of 
Gad-Milkarih,  son  of  Eschmun-ijjer." 

This  shows  that  tbeae  Phirnician  inscriptions  are 
usually  a  mere  collection  of  proper  names,  sometimes 
with  the  addition  of  high-sounding  titles.  And  we  may 
safely  conclude  that  the  Cypriote  inscriptions  are  in 
these  respects  similar,  and  consequently  likely  to  afford 
little  information  to  compensate  for  the  trouble  of  in- 
vestigating  them.  Many  of  these  Phcenician  inscrip- 
tions from  the  island  of  Cyprus  have  been  long  pub- 
[  lished  in  Pococke's  Travels^  in  Plate  33,  which  he  terms 
•*  Inscriptiones  Citlenses,"  That  traveller,  mentioning 
Larnica,  slates  that  there  have  been  found  many  inscrip- 
tions "  in  an  unintelligible  character,  which  I  suppose 
is  the  ancient  Pfuffnician."*     Larnica  stands  near  the 

*  '  Di^scnption  of  the  Eust.'  vol.  li.  p.  213.  plate  33,  where  in  many 
as  ID  Nos.  32  aad  33,  tlic  same  letter  m  is  given. 


383 


ON    SOMS    iNSC&iFTiONS 


site  of  the  very  ancient  Citium,  and  Cicero  expressly 
writes,  "Cittisos  .  ,  .  e  Phoemcia  prol'ectos."  (DeFin. 
iv.  20.) 

The  Due  de  Luynes  has  also  added  a  ground-plan 
of  the  grotto  Dear  Cucklia,  which  is  taken  from  that 
originally  made  by  Professor  Ross,  and  engraved  in 
plate  28  of  Gerhard's  '  Archaologische  Zeitung,*  for 
1851.  This  sepulchral  grotto  is  there  entitled  "  Pho- 
nicische  Griiher  auf  Oyjjern,"  by  Ross,*  who  has  else- 
where ('  Reisen  nach  Cypera,'  etc.,  p.  182,  n.  27;  Halle, 
1852)  observed  on  the  inscription  No.  I.,  "  Die  In- 
Bchrifl  weicht  von  der  gewbhnlichenPAom'cwcft^nSchrift 
ganzab,  und  erinnert  sehr  an  die  Lydscheyi  Buchsta- 
ben  " — tlie  inscription  differs  entirely  from  the  ordi- 
nary Phoenician  writing,  and  greatly  approaches  the 
Lycian  characters. 

The  interpretation  of  the  Cypriote  tongue  or  dialect^ 
I  fear,  cannot  be  made  out  with  certainty  until  more 
inscriptions  shall  have  been  brought  to  light,  and 
among  which  we  may  reasonably  hope  that  a  bilingwil 
one — either  Phcenician  and  Cypriote,  or  Greek  and 
Cypriote — may  be  discovered. 

The  other  inscriptions,  about  twenty  in  number, 
which  I  have  received  from  Commander  Leycester,  are 
all  Greek,  with  the  exception  of  a  sepulchral  one  in 
Latin  from  Baffo,  apparently  of  mediaeval  times  ;  it  re- 
lates to  a  "  Peter,  Bishop  of  New  Paphos  "  {Pap.  Neff). 

Most  of  the  Greek  inscriptions  have  already  appeared 
in  Bockh's  or  Ross's  works,  but  three  or  four,  being  of 

'  TlieKe  works  have  just  appeared  in  a  se|>BratG  volume,  published 
at  Leip^ic  since  October  23.  1861.  See  Ludwig  Uon's  'Archlolo- 
gisqhie  AafsAtze,'  pt.  2;  and  for  tlie  inscnption  No.  I.,  vitle  Atl»c. 
plate  IX,.  fig.  2,  bill  this  somewhat  tlifFera  from  3?iy  copv, — J.  H.t 
April  21.  18b2. 


FHOM    CYPttUS. 


383 


I 


much  importance,  I  will  here  add,  with  my  own  trans- 
lations. 

At  Cttchlia,  on  a  stone  under  a  tree  close  to  the 
church  of  Katoliki : — 

A*POAlTH"nA*IAI 
AHMOKPATHZPTOAEMAIOY 

OAPXorrnNKiNYPAAnN 

KAIHfYNHEYNrKH 
THNEAYTilN0YrATEPA 

APirrHN 

"To  the  Paphian  Venus, 
DeiBocrat«i  (the  eoti)  of  PtoJemy, 
ITie  Chief  of  the  CttiyradEe, 
And  (his)  wife  Eunice 
(Dedicate)  their  daughter 
A  r  lata." 

This  dedication  of  his  daughter  to  Venus  Paphia, 
the— 

"Diva  potenB  Cypri," 

is  of  great  interest,  as  the  father  Democrates  is  termed 
"  the  Chief  of  the  Cinyradae,"  who  were  the  priests  of 
that  famed  goddess. 

Cinyras,  the  supposed  futher  of  Adonis,  beloved  by 
Venus,  having  been  the  founder  of  False  Paphos,  and 
the  first  king  of  Cyprus,  his  descendants  were  distin- 
guished with  being  made  the  priests  of  the  Paphian 
Venus,  and  from  him  those  high-priests  continued  to 
be  styled  "  Cinyradae,"  Cinyras  is  reputed  to  have  de- 
dicated that  very  ancient  temple  which  Tacitus  speaks 
of  as  "Cyprii  delubruru  .  .  .  vetustissimutn,  Paphiae 
Veneri,"^  Again  he  writes  "  a  CinyrI  sacratum  tem- 
plum,"  and  he  expressly  mentions  a  priest  of  the  god- 
dess as  "  Cinyrades  sacerdos."' 

"  Tadt.  Annal.  lib.  iii.  cap.  62.       ^  Tacit.  Hist.  lib.  ii.  cap.  3. 


384 


ON    SOMB    INSCHIPTIONS 


Even  in  the  early  time  of  Homer»  the  shrine  of  Ve- 
nus at  Paphos  was  renowned  ; — 

'H  S*  apa.  "Kvirpav  ucavc  t^iXofifKiBi]^  'AtjtfM&iTV}, 
'Ev6a  bi  fnv  Xaptrcs  Aowrai'.* 

And  thus  Euripides  : — 

'iKQtiMnv  irarl  raf  KiJjrpov, 
Nwray  T"S  'A.(j)poSiTa.<i 
"Tva  dt\^i<f>povi<l  VK]J.OV— 

Tat  BvaTouTt-v  'Elpdirtf 

Tacitus  also  records  that  Titus,  just  on  the  death  6^ 
Galba,  the  emperor,  visited  Paphus/"  and  consulted 
the  oracle  of  Venus."  This  took  place  early  in  a.d.  69, 
prohably  towards  the  end  of  January,  or  in  the  begin- 
ning of  February.  This  event  seems  to  have  been 
commemorated  on  a  coin  of  Cyprus,  mentioned  by 
Mionnct,  No.  23,  of  which  the  obverse  bears  the  bead 
of  Titus,  and  the  reverse  the  temple  of  Venus  Paphia, 
the  legend  being  Koi,vqv  KiVpwut' 'Etoup  j4." 

The  "EtovsA,  I  believe,  is  intended  for  iht  first  year 
of  his  father  Vespasian's  reign^  for  lie  succeeded  Galba, 
Olho,  and  VilelUus,  in  the  autumn  of  a.d.  69. 

Since  the  same  legend  occurs  on  No.  8^  a  Cyprus 
coin  of  Galba  {FaX^as  Se^aorosjf  this  date  would  be 
thus  confirmed,  for  this  year,  a.d.  G9,  would  be  also 
the  first  {A)  of  Galba,  as  well  as  of  Vespasian. 

Vespasian.  Is  related  to  have  restored  the  temple  of 

8  Horn.  Odys.  viii-  362. 
*"  Eurip.  Bacchic,  v.  379. 
'"  Tacit.  HiPt.  lib.  ii-  cap.  2. 

"  See  e-Ua  Suetonius  lii  Til.  cap.  5.  "aditoquG  PaphiEC  Veneris 
oracuk,  iliim  (le  navigaUonc  ct^nsulit,"  etc. 

'^  Mionnet,  'M^ailles  Antiques,''  vqI,  iij.  pp.  671-8. 


FROM    CYPfiUS, 


385 


Venus  Paphia,  which  had  been  injut-ed  by  an  earth- 
quake ;  and  this  possibly  took  place  towards  the  end 
of  A.D,  69,  and  after  Titus's  visit  to  Paphus. 

This  legend  seems  to  refer  to  that  circumstance,  be- 
cause in  several  Cvprian  coins  of  Vespasian  we  notice 
the  legend  "Etav^  Niav  'lepov,  H,  i.  e.  '*  the  year  of  the 
New  Temple,  8/'  which  would  correspond  with  a.d. 
76-7,  the  same  having  representations  of  the  temple 
of  Venus  Pephia. 

The  present  inscription  is,  I  conc'ude,  prior  to  the 
Christian  era.  The  Cinyrades,  or  priest  of  Venus,  who 
interpreted  the  oracle  to  Titus,  was  named  "  Sostra- 

tUB."'" 

The  next,  taken  at  Eptscope,  was  first  copied  by  the 
Count  de  Vidua,  and  restored  by  M.  Letronne,'*  but 
since  Vidua's  copy  was  not  correct  in  the  last  two 
words,  I  here  add  Captain  Leycester's  lr;inscrij)tj  partly 
to  show  that  the  French  savant  was  right  in  his  emen- 
dation of  it,  and  partly  to  complete  a  furtlter  portion 
of  what  I  consider  to  have  beea  the  original  inscrip- 
tion. This  officer  thinks,  with  others,  that  Epi&cope 
stands  on  or  near  the  site  of  Curium  or  Koupiov,  which, 
according  to  Herodotus,'*  was  an  Argive  colony. 

♦lAOMHTOPATONErBAilAEnZ 
KAEO^ATPAZ0En^fE^I♦ANnN 

"  Philoractor,  the  son  of  King 
of  Cleopatra,  the  Gods  Epiphanes." 

Bockh'^   has    incorrectly  copied    Ef    for  EF,   L 
ey^yovoi'),  in  this  same  inscription,  No.  2G16. 

**  Tacit.  Hist.  lib,  ii.  cap.  4. 

'*  ■  Journd  des  fcavjitifc,'  March  1827,  p.  171.  ' 

"  Hist.  lib.  V.  CRp.  113. 

'"  'Corpus  Inaciriptionum  Grtccarum,'  vol.  ii.  p.  437. 


386 


ON     SOME    INSCRIFTIUNS 


Philometor  was  tlie  sixth  King  Ptolemy,  and  the  son 
of  Ptolemy  Epiphanes  and  hU  queen  Cleopatra. 

The  Jirst  part  of  this  broken  inscriplioa  1  believe  to 
be  the  following,  which  Captain  Leycesler  found  at  the 
distance  of  "half-an-hour  from  the  place  (Eptsco pel, 
on  the  road  to  Baffo,"  wliither  it  had  probably  been 
carried,  perhaps  for  building  purposes.  It  is  "  oo  a 
stone  two  feet  by  eleven  inches." 

B  AZI AEAPTOAEMAION  [0EON ) 
PTOAEMAIOYKAIBASIAtirZHZ) 

"  King  Ptolemy  (the  God) 
of  Ptolemy  and  of  Queen" 

By  putting  together  these  two  fragmentary  inscrip- 
tions tliey  would  form  one,  and!  run  thus : — 

"  King  Ptolemy  (the  God)  Philometor,  the  son  of  King 
Ptolemy  and  of  Queeu  Cleopatra,  the  God«  EpipIi&Des." 

This,  then,  presents  an  inscription  of  much  interest, 
as  regards  the  monarch  Philometon  who  was  the  fa- 
ther o(  the  Ptoleniy  recorded  in  the  inscription  lastly 
herein  subjoined.  Ptolemy  Phiiometor  reigned  from 
181  to  146  B.C. 

Another,  observed  *'at  Cucklia  (Palaepaphus),  was 
built  into  the  wall  of  a  church  :"— 

TONMANTIAPXHNKA(rYNAA£A*ON 
A«I»P  AITHZKAIAIOZPOAIEOZKAJHPAZ 
4»IAArA0IA(rTHZEAYTOY) 

The  middle  line  of  which  alone  has  been  published  by 
Von  Hammer,  who  found  it  in  the  identical  spot:  and 
it  was  cited  after  him  by  Bcckh,  No.  2640. 
The  whole  frasrment  1  render  as  follows : — 


"The  Chief  Prophet  siid  brother 
of  Venus,  anci  of  Jupiter  Polieue,  and  of  Judo, 
(on  account  of  hisj  lov@  of  goodneBS," 


FROM    CYPRUS. 


387 


ft 

I 
I 


I 


Before  the  second  line  tJ  iroXt!  nr  jj  i-^o-off,  the  dedu 
eating  party,  is  wanting ;  perhaps  the  last  two  words, 
which  seem  to  have  been  supplied,  should  be  -nj!  tls 
eavTQp  or  iavTTjv,  and  €V£MEv  is  to  he  understood. 

Besides  the  many  temples  of  Venus  (Aphrodite)  in 
Cyprus,  there  were  temples  of  Jupiter  (Zeus)  and  of 
Juno  (Hera).  On  several  of  the  coins  of  Cyprus  there 
are  figures  of  Jupiter,  and  of  his  sacred  bird,  the  eagle. 
His  great  sanctuary  was  at  Salamis,  as  he  is  often 
termed  "Jupiter  Salaminius  ;"'^  and  Ammiaiius  Mar- 
celliaus  confirms  this,  where  he  says  "Salamts  et  Pa- 
phu6,  altera  Jovis  delubris,  altera  Veneris  templo,  in- 
gignis.'*'^  And  with  regard  to  the  worship  of  JuQO,  this 
was  most  likely  frequent,  as  bein^;  the  queen  of  Jupiter. 
This  is  fortunately  proved  by  one  Greek  inscription, 
published  in  Bockh,  No.  2643,  which  had  beeri  found 
by  Von  Hammer,  at  Limasol,  the  former  Amathus,  ia 
which  an  'Hpalcy  is  mentioned.  This  Heraeum,  or  tem- 
ple of  Juno,  was  ornamented  by  a  person  named  ^si- 

mUS  {Aiaifios), 

The  last  Greek  inscription,  which  is,  as  far  as  I  can 
find,  unpublished,  was  discovered  by  Captain  Leycester, 
ID  the  summer  of  1849  ;  he  communicated  it  to  me  in 
a  letter  on  May  6,  and  I  consider  it  to  he  one  of  very 
great  importance,  as  it  determines,  without  any  further 
doubt,  the  actual  reign  of  Ptolemy  Eupator. 

The  place  where  it  was  noticed  Captain  Leycester 
thus  describes : — "  Half  an  hour  from  Episcope  on  the 
road  to  Baffo,  but  a  little  to  the  right-hand,  on  a  slight 
eminence  overlooking  the  sea,  called  by  the  inhabitants 
Apolloca,  there  are  extensive  ruins,  and  amongst  them 

I'  Vide  Tacit.  Annul,  lib.  iii.  cap.  62. 

'^  Ammiaa.  Marcell.  liib.  xiv.  cap.  8,  eect.  14. 


388 


ON    SOME    INSCHIt^loNS 


we  found  the  following,  on  a  stone  two  feet  nine  incliea 
by  one  foot :" — 

BAZIAEArXOAEMAlONeEONEYPATOPA 

TONErBAZIAEIiZPTOAEMAIOYKAIBAriAIXZRX 

KAEOPATPA2©EIlNiMAOMHTOPaN 

Which  I  have  thus  translated  : — 

"King  Ptolemy,  the  God  Eupalor, 
the  aon  of  King  Ptolemy  and  Queen 
Cleopatra,  the  Goda  Philometora." 

The  abbreviation  EF,  <£y,  in  the  second  line,  as  i! 
the  former  inscription,  which  relates  to  Philometor 
himself,  the  father  of  the  present  Ptolemy,  means 
eyyovav,  a  descendant  or  son;  it  is  by  no  means  frequent, 
and  strictly,  1  think,  here  signifies  more  than  a  son, 
that  is  to  say,  one  burn  in  an  incestuous  marriage,  and 
literally  inborn — born  from  parents  who  are  near  akin 
to  each  other.  In  these  cases,  the  eyyovoi  were  both 
sons  and  nephews  of  the  pareuts.  In  such  cases,  when 
Bpeakmg  of  the  breeding  of  stock,  the  usual  phrase  is, 
"in  and  in.">* 

This  inscription  therefore  confirms  that  there  not 
only  exiited  such  a  Ptolemy,  who  was  surnamed  Eupa- 
tor,  but  that  he  had  also  reigned  as  king  or  god;  for 
although  the  very  Bhort  inscription  which  the  Baron 
Von  Hammer  found  among  the  ruins  of  Cucklia,  and 
which  Bockh  has  republished.  No.  2618,  and  is  dedi- 
catory of  the  "  God  Eupator  to  Venus,"  il  cao  by  no 
means  be  held  certain,  for  the  word  EYriATOPA  might 

^^  To  a  certain  eiteot,  breeding  "in  aod  in"  has  been  recom- 
mended by  gume  furmers;  but  if  carriied  on  too  Jong  between  tQO  Dear 
coDsanguinttifs,  th«  MocIl  ie  found  to  be  weak,  and,  I  believe,  »ome' 
times  proves  barren.  But  in-and-in  breeding  with  cattle  la  nerer  at- 
tended with  cooae^uenoea  bo  bad  ac  with  the  human  race. 


FROM  CYPRUS.  389 

have  been  an  error  in  transcribing,  or  doubtful  for 
♦lAOriATOPA,  Piiilopator,  the  fourth  Ptolemy,  and 
son  of  Euergetes  I. 

And  indeed,  M.  J.  Saint-Martin^  writes  of  the  in- 
scription  found  by  Von  Hammer,  which  dedicates  £u- 
pator  to  Venu8,  "  Je  ne  doute  pas  que  le  prince  men- 
tionne  sur  ce  monument  ne  soit  Ptol^m^  Everg^te 
II.,  qui  rdgnoit  ^galement  sur  I'Egypte  et  sur  I'Sle  de 
Cypre." 

Again,  the  same  writer  afterwards^'  states,  "  Nous 
avons  trouv^  dans  Jos^phe  le  mSme  sumom  d'Eupator 
employe  pour  designer  le  roi  appel^  ordinairement  Phi- 
lopator.^  C'est  aussi  k  lui  plutdt  qu'au  jeune  prince, 
qui  eut  k  peine  le  temps  de  paroitre  sur  le  tr6ae,  qu'il 
faut  rapporter  Tiascription  d^ouverte  en  Cypre,  par 
M.  de  Hammer." 

Also  Herr  Bockh''  says  of  the  same  inscription, 
"  Sed  Letronnius,  Eupatorem  Paphise  inscriptionis  cen- 
set  Philopatorem  esse  Euergetse  I.  euccessorem  .  .  .  ut 
ap.  Joseph.  Archaeol.  xiii.  3.  Philopator  semel  dicitur 
EvrraTtep."  And  Bockh  concludes  thus: — *' Joseph! 
vero  locus  eo  magis  corruptus  censendus,  quod  paulo 
post  ille  scriptor  eundejn  regent  ^CKo^aropa  dicit." 

Having  carefully  examined  several  editions  of  Jose- 
phus,  and  especially  the  passages  referred  to,  I  have 
not  met  with  the  name  of  Eupator.  In  Antiq.  Jud. 
xii.  3,  3,  the  Ptolemy  mentioned  is  Philopator,  and  in 
xiii.  3,  Philometor  is  named,  and  so  he  is  again  in  xiii. 
4.     In  fact,  in  none  of  the  editions  of  that  historian 

*>  'Journal  dea  Savans,'  September,  1821,  p.  539. 

21  'Journal  dee  Savan*,'  September,  1822.  p.  560. 

22  "  Joseph.  Ant.  Jud.  lib.  xii.  cap.  3,  b.  3." 
^  Corp.  Inacript.  Gnec,  vol.  ii.  p.  438. 


390 


ON    SOMB    INSCRIPTIONS 


have  I  ever  seen  the  word  Eimarap.  So  it  would  seem 
that  Von  Hammer's  inscription  from  Cucklia  led, 
amongst  the  learned,  only  to  doubt,  and  not  to  deter' 
mine  the  accuracy  of  the  name  of  the  Ptolemy  repre- 
sented to  be  "  Eupator." 

But  the  present  inscription,  by  giving  the  parentage, 
or  the  names  of  both  father  and  mother  of  Eupator, 
leaves  the  matter  without  the  slightest  suspicion  ^  and 
particularly  since  the  inscription  itself,  as  far  as  has 
been  saved,  is  entirely  free  from  any  lacuntE  or  broken 
letters,  except  the  last  E  in  the  second  line. 

The  "  God  Eupator,"  I  find,  is  mentioned  in  a 
Greek  papyrus  MS.  which  formerly  belonged  to  M. 
d'Anastasi  at  Alexandria  in  Egypt.  It  is  cited  at  p. 
544  (Jonrn.  des  Sav.  for  IS'Jl),  as  correctly  coming 
after  the  God  Philometor,  ih\is:—Secitv'Eirt^v&v,*at 
6eov  ^iXofiijTOpoSj  Kat  0€ov  Eirrrarcpos,  xat  Bsarv  Evepyerwvi 
althout^h  in  another  Greek  manuscript,  obtained  by 
M.  Casati  in  Egypt  (Journ.  des  Sav.  for  1822,  p.  556), 
this  order  of  succession  is  transi)osed,  that  is  to  say, 
Eupator  is  placed  before  Philometor,  thus  :~0^a}P  'E-r-t- 

<pai>oiVy  KOI  6eov  EinraTopoF,   kcu   deov  ^iXCfi-rjropos ,   teat   paju 

Evepyi^ov,  which  probably  arose  from  the  negli^enoe  of 
the  copyist,"^ 

The  true  succession,  however,  of  these  Ptolemies, 
is,  by  this  Jast  inscription  of  Captain  Leycester,  quite 
settled. 

Little  has  been  preserved  in  history  about  this  Pto- 

**  Dr.  R.  Lepaius  Bays.,  "  A  comparison  of  the  demotic  lists  shows 
that  the  transposition  of  the  names  SapaJor  and  Philomttt^r  in  ibx 
Greek  papyrus  from  the  year  B.C.  JOS,  is  not  alone  an  error  of  Hat 
copyist  in  writing,  as  this,  and  otlier  transpoBitioDS  also,  are  not 
uofrequetit  in  the  demoLlc  papyrus." — Note,  p.  108.  '  LeUera  rrom 
Egypt,'  etc.,  translated  by  Horner,  1853. 


FROM    CYPRUS. 


391 


I 


Temy  Eupator,  who  iu  truth  was  a  mere  child,  and  who 
only  reigned  a  very  short  time.  His  father  and  mo- 
ther, as  the  inscription  states,  were  Ptolemy  VI.,  sui'- 
•named  Philometor,^  and  the  Queen  Cleopatra,  who 
was  also  his  sister.  On  the  death  of  his  father,  b.c.  14G, 
who  was  killed  after  !ia\'in[;  fallen  from  his  horse,'* 
his  mother  proclaimed  liim  his  successor  and  King  of 
Egypt ;  and  she  is  related  to  have  been  regent  for  hiin, 
■  and.  acted  in  his. name.  This  inscription  must  be  of 
that   date,  and  commemorates  the  dedication  of  the 

Ij-oung  "God  Eupator"  to  some  deity,  or  for  some 
public  purpose,  by  some  person  or  city  in  Cyprus,  and 
probably  through  the  authority  of  his  mother  Cleopa- 
tra. Soon  afterwards,  it  having  been  settled  that  she 
was  to  marry  her  surviving  hrother,  Euergctes  II.,  sur- 
named  Phj^scon,  and  in  order  to  put  aside  the  youthful 
king  Eupator,  his  nephew,  and  that  he  might  not  prove 

I  a  hindrance  to  his  own  ambitious  views,  the  bridegroom 
commenced  bia  hymeneal  acts  by  murdering  him,  on 
the  very  day  iu  which  he  became  his  father-in-law. 
I  This  cruel  event  is  thus  well  narrated  by  Justin  ; — 
*'  At  in  jEgypto,  mortuo  rege.Ptolemieo  (Philome- 
tore),  ei  qui  Cyrenis  regnabat  Ptolemieo  (Physconi) 
per  legatos  regnum  et  uxor  Cleopatra  regina,  soror 
ipsius,  defertur.  L-etus  igitur  hoc  solo  Ptoletuieus,  quod 
cine  certamine  fraternum  regnum  recepisset,  in  quod 
subomari  et  a  matre  Cleopatra,  et  favore  princlpum, 
iVatris  filium  cognoverat;  ceterum  infestus  omnibus, 
statim  ubi  Alexandriam  ingressus  est  fautores  pueri 
trucidari  jussit.     Ipsum  quoque  die  nuptiarum  quibua 

^^  See,  coacemii:^  Ptolemy  Philometar,  Cteopatra,  atid  Phvadoii, 
Joseph-  'Contra  Apioucm,'  lib.  it.  cap.  5. 
^  Fm/*- Joseph.  Aiitiq.  Jud.  lib.  xiii.  cap.  4,  ».  R. 
VOL.   VII.  2  D 


392  ON    SOME    INSCRIPTIONS 

matrem  ejus  in  matrimonium  recipiebat,  inter  appani' 
tus  epularum  et  solennia  religionum,  in  coinplexu  rna- 
tris  interfecit,  atque  ita  torum  sororis,  csede  filii  ejus 
cruentus,  ascendit."^^ 

Again,  at  a  subsequent  period,  Physcon  committed 
a  still  more  horrid  murder,  in  assassinating  his  own 
son  Memphitis,  and,  like  Medea  of  old,  who  was 
related — 

"  Membra  aoror  fratris  consecuisae  «ui," 

cut  off  portions  of  his  dead  body,  which  he  sent  to  his 
sister  and  wife,  the  same  Cleopatra  (whose  other  son 
he  had  killed),  at  Alexandria.  This  frightful  crime  was 
perpetrated  in  Cyprus.** 

The  Alexandrians  naturally  held  their  sovereign  in 
detestation,  and  they  consequently  changed  his  sur- 
name of  benefactor,  Euergetes,"^  to  that  of  malefactor 

^  Justin.  Hist.  Phil.  lib.  xxxviii.  cap.  8. 

^  See  the  account  in  Diod.  Sic.  Frag.  vol.  x.  lib.  xxxiv.  p.  126. 
edit.  Wessele,  Argent. ;  and  also  in  Justin,  lib.  xxxviii,  at  the  end  of 
chap.  8. 

^  In  Horner's  edition  of  Lepsius's  '  IjCtters/  p.  50fi,  the  list  of 
the  Ptolemies  is  incorrect,  for  Eupator  is  inserted  twice;  i.  e.  both 
be/ore  Philometor,  his  father,  b.c.  181,  and  after  h\m,  as  Philopator  II., 
B.C.  146.  Lepsius  distinctly  states,  in  note,  p.  107,  that  "the  son 
of  Philometor  and  of  his  sister,  Cleopatra  II.,  mentioned  by  Justin, 
who  was  formerly  believed  to  have  been  rediscovered  in  the  Eupator 
of  the  Leyden  papyrus,  is  particularly  mentioned  in  the  hieroglyphic 
inscriptions  among  the  other  Ptolemies,  in  his  place  between  Philo- 
metor and  Euergetes;  and  we  thence  become  acquainted  with  his 
name.-  which  had  not  been  added  by  the  authors.  He  is  sometimes 
named  PkUopalor,  and  sometimes  Neog  PhUopator."  "Young,"  he 
adds,  "had  also  already  correctly  acknowledged  Eupator;"  and 
Chanipollion  was  right,  where  he  "endeavoured  to  prove  that  Eupator 
was  the  ion  of  Philometor,  who  was  killed  by  Euergetes  II.  on  his 
ascent  to  the  throve."     I  need  not  investigate  these  Ptolemies  any 


PBOM    CYPRUS.  393 

or  evil-doer,  Cacergetes,  for  these  and  many  other  enor- 
Diities. 

further  from  Egyptian  remains,  since  their  succeBsion  is  fully  deter- 
mined by  this  Greek  inscription  of  Captain  I^ycester,  as  extant  in 
1 849,  at  Apollona  in  Cyprus — which  island,  in  fact,  about  the  period 
of  its  erection,  formed  a  valuable  portion  of  the  kingdom  of  Egypt. 


394 


XIIL— EXTRACTS  FROM  LETTERS  ADDRESSED  TO  C.T. 
NEWTON,  ESQ.,  BY  M.  DEMETRIUS  PIERIDES  AND 

F.  CALVERT,  ESQ. 

(Read  April  9,  1862.) 

The  following  short  paper  is  made  up  of  extracts 
froin  some  interesting  letters  addressed  to  my  colleague 
Charles  Newton,  Esq.,  the  Keeper  of  the  Classical 
Antiquities  in  the  British  Museum,  by  M.  Demetrius 
Pierides,  a  Greek  gentleman  resident  at  Lamaca,  in 
Cyprus.  M.  Pierides  states,  that  on  looking  over 
some  papers  relating  to  the  antiquities  of  Cyprus,  he 
has  met  with  two  Greek  inscriptions  referring  to 
the  Ptolemies,  which  he  had  copied  when  travelling 
through  this  island  with  the  late  lamented  Captain 
Graves,  R.N.,  when  in  command  of  H.M.S.  Volage. 
These  inscriptions  were  found  about  eight  miles  west 
of  Limassol,  near  the  ruins  of  the  ancient  Curium, 
on  stones  which  seemingly  formed  part  of  a  temple 
dedicated  to  Apollo  Hylates,  so  named  from  the 
town  of  llyle,  where  this  temple  was  erected.  This 
spot  is  still  called  "  Apetlona"  by  the  inhabitants  of 
the  surrounding  country.  Tzetzes  mentions  the  fact 
with  regard  to  llyle  as  follows  : — "TXti  iroXts  Kvn-pou,  tv 
y  ^AttoWmv  Tifiarat  ''T\i'ni}s ;  as  is  noticed  in  a  recent 
work  on  Cyprus,  called  Ta  KvirpiaKa  by  M.  Anastasius 
A.  Sackellarius  (Athens,  1855). 

The  iirst  of  these  two  inscriptions  lias  already  ap- 


I 


I 


EXTRACTS    JfROM    LETTEE8,    ETC.  395 

eared  in  this  work ;  the  second  is  of  the  greatest 
interest,  from  Its  being  inscribed  in  honour  of  Ptolemy 
Eupator.a  king  scarcely  mentioned  inliistory;  though, 
curiously  enough,  the  same  personage  is  recorded  in  an 
inscriplior.  from  Paphos,  published  in  Boeckh,  Corp, 
Inscript..  No.  2618. 

BAJIA£A  nXOAEMAION   BEQN  "ETnATOPA  A*POirrH. 

M.  Boeckhj  who  first  made  this  inscription  public  in 
1821,  at  that  time  considered  that  the  ©tor  EinraTopa 
referred  to  Ptolemy  Evergetes  IL  ;  he  has  since  then 
changed  his  mind,  and  believes,  as  does  M.  Pierides, 
that  Ptolemy  VI. ,  the  infant  son  of  Philometor,  is  the 
person  really  referred  to,  Champollion-Figeac  has 
taken  tlie  same  view,  in  opposition  to  Letronne  and 
St.  Martin(Eclairc.sur  le  Cunlrat  de  Ptolemais,  p.  xxv.) 

It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  Mr.  Sharpe,  in  his 
*  History  of  Egypt/  has  already  stated  that  on  the 
death  of  Philometor,  bis  wiilow  Cleopatra  and  some 
of  the  chief  men  of  Alexandria  proclaimed  his  young 
son  king,  "  most  likely  under  the  name  of  Ptolemy 
Eupator"  (vol.  i.  p.  393,  fourth  edition,  1S59).  The 
reign,  however,  of  this  young  man  was  of  brief  dura- 
tion ;  for  Evergetes,  forgetful  that  he  owed  his  own 
life  to  Philometor,  had  the  boy  put  to  death  on  the 
day  of  his  marriage  with  Cleopatra,  his  sister,  and 
his  brotiier's  widow.  It  will  be  interesting  to  Mr.  Sharpe 
to  learu  how  completely  his  conjecture,  that  Ptolemy 
Eupator  did  not  only  succeed  his  father  in  Egypt  but 
■was  even  proclaimed  in  the  provinces,  has  been  con- 
firmed by  monumental  evidence. 

The  inscriptions  are  as  follows  : — 

No.  1. — Formed  of  two  stones  regularly  cut,  each 
about  two  and  a  half  feet  in  length  and  one  in  breadth. 


396  EXTRACTS    PROM    LETTEBS 

BAZIAEA  ITTOAEMAION    [SEON  ^I^AOMHTOPA  TOP  ET   {tie)    M^AKfll 
nrOAEHAIOT  KAI   BAZIA[U2H2]  KAEOHATFAI  BEHU  EnWAKON. 

No.  II. — A  single  stone,  two  feet  nine  inches  br 
one  foot. 

BAXIAEA  irrOAEMAION  SEON  ETOATOTA 

TON  Er  BAZIAEnZ  TITOAEHAIOT  KAI  BA2L\IXXH2 

KAEOnATPAZ  SEAN  tlAOMHTOPON.' 

M.  Pierides  was  also  fortunate  enough  to  obtain 
one  of  two  PhcEnician  inscriptions  recently  found  in 
Cyprus ;  the  other  fell  to  the  lot  of  a  French  traveller, 
and  is  the  least  perfect,  though  the  longest.  The  one 
in  M.  Pierides'  possession  was  found  last  autumn  io 
Larnaka.  It  consists  of  four  lines,  and  is  but  little 
injured,  the  end  of  the  first  line  only  being  wanting. 
The  French  one  has  once  had  seven  lines ;  but  it  is 
now  very  indistinct.  Both  are  in  white  marble,  and 
record  the  name  of  Malek-ltan,  King  of  Cittium  (a 
town,  in  all  probability,  to  be  identified  with  the  mo- 
dem Larnaka).  On  M.  Pierides'  inscription,  Thamas, 
a  son  of  Malck-Itan,  King  of  Cittium,  is  mentioced; 
and  another  name  occurs — that  of  Ican-Salem,  wliich 
I  have  not  met  with  elsewhere,  except  on  one  of 
Mr.  Davis's  Carthaginian  inscriptions  which  I  am  now 
editing  for  the  British  Museum. 

The  accompanying  lithograph,  made  from  the  pape' 

'  Tliere  is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  this  is  the  same  inscripO'"' 
which  was  given  by  Captaio  Leycester,  R.N.,  to  John  Hogg,  E8*l;* 
For.  Sec.  R.S.L.,  and  on  which  Mr.  Hogg  rend  a  paper  before  tJ** 
Society  on  May  8th,  1861,  which  is  printed  in  the  present  part  of  t** 
'  Transactions  of  tlie  Royal  Society  of  Literature.'  Captain  Leyceet*^' 
it  appears,  travelled  in  company  with  M.  Pieridee  ;  but  whether 
the  same  time  as  Captain  Graves,  R.N,,  I  am  not  aware.     In  just* 
to  M.  Pierides,  who,  in  sending  the  inscription  to  Mr.  Newt*^, 
could  not  have  been   aware  that  a  copy  of  it  had  already  been  1^^ 
before  the   Society  during  the   last  ye:tr,  it  has  been  thought  ri^^ 
to  print,  us  above,  the  substance  of  his  letter. — W.  S.  W.  V. 


ADDRESSED    TO    C.  T.   KEWTON,    ESQ.  397 

impression  forwarded  by  31.  Pierides,  represents  very 
fairly  the  character  of  the  Inscription,  and  the  form  of 
its  letters.  I  have  accompanied  this  with  a  transcript 
in  Hebrew  letters,  in  which  I  have  given  the  equiva- 
lents of  the  Phoenician  characters  according  to  my  pre- 
sent belief.  I  do  not,  however,  presume  to  advance  this 
transcript  as  the  one  in  which  I  purpose  finally  to  rest ; 
as  it  is  highly  probable  that  many  of  the  values  here 
suggested  may  ultimately  be  altered  or  modified.  No 
one  who  has  made  Phoenician  inscriptions  his  study, 
but  must  admit  the  difficulty  of  reading  them  off  at 
once,  especially,  as  there  is  almost  always  some  doubt 
as  to  the  exact  values  of  individual  letters,  arising,  in 
many  instances,  from  their  similarity.  I  have  thought 
it  right  to  print  this  inscription  and  its  Hebrew  tran- 
script as  soon  as  possible,  that  M.  Pierides  may  not, 
through  any  accident,  lose  the  credit  due  to  him  for 
his  discovery:  the  transcript  is,  however,  put  forward 
simply  as  a  suggestion  of  what  may  ultimately  be  much 
modified ;  not,  however,  without  the  hope,  that  further 
researches  may  enable  me,  at  some  future  time,  to  give 
a  fuller  and  better  account  of  it  than  I  can  give  at 
present. 

Transcript  in  Hebrew. 

[?]  [t?nn  ']hf:h'\  21  ro^i  h^  m-h  (6?)|I1 1|[  dq-'i  (i) 
20  oVnMi  "-na  "f'ro  p""  :ho  ^'td  p  ttn^n  ^  *7-^«  (2) 

33''  p  ^tyip  "f«-Q  \ir (2?)||  Qw  wn-nsi  (3) 

(?)  □Ti''  V"s^^^''  P  «V3"!«  pt^M  p  ah  (4) 

I  have  separated  into  words  some  of  the  groups  ol" 
letters  in  the  above  transcript,  about  which  I  think 
there  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt — such  as  those  for 


398  EXTRACTS    FROM    LBTTBRS,  ETC. 

day,  year,  month,  and  the  proper  names  Thamas  and 
Malek-Itan,  King  of  Cittium.  I  have  also  rendered 
some  symbols,  which,  from  the  analogy  of  the  coins 
of  Aradus,  are  almost  certainly  numbers,  by  Arabic 
numerals. 

I  have  also  much  pleasure  in  reading  a  letter  from 
Mr.  F.  Calvert  to  Charles  T.  Newton,  Esq.,  in  which 
he  states  that  he  has  recently  made  several  trips  into 
the  interior  of  the  Troad,  and  has  been  so  fortunate 
as  to  discover  several  ancient  sites, such  a8Cebrene,etc., 
and  that  he  was  about  to  start  on  another  expedition 
by  ascending  the  ^sopus,  and  crossing  the  country 
thence  to  Assos.  Mr.  Calvert  believed  he  had  iden- 
tified the  cave  of  Andeira,  a  very  curious  place,  full  of 
stalactites  of  recent  formation.  This  cavern  was  first 
noticed  by  a  shepherd  a  couple  of  years  ago,  but  no 
one  had  ventured  into  it  till  Mr.  Calvert  made  the 
attempt,  and  succeeded.  There  proved  to  be  only  one 
really  dangerous  place,  where  a  slippery  slope,  with  a 
chasm  below,  presents  itself.  The  chief  labour  con- 
sisted in  climbing  up  and  descending  into  holes  open- 
ing into  chambers.  Mr.  Calvert  had  further  discovered 
in  a  necropolis  a  neclclace  of  amber  beads,  and  several 
scarabeei,  which  had  evidently  been  attached  to  it.  The 
scaraboei  are  made  of  a  whitish-coloured  clay,  and  have 
hieroglyphics  stamped  upon  them;  which  is  also  the 
case  with  another  scarabeeus  of  a  bright  blue  material, 
exhibiting  traces  of  gilding,  which  Mr.  Calvert  dis- 
covered in  another  tomb.  Mr.  Calvert  had  not  been 
able  to  identify  the  cartouches  and  these  scarabaei 
with  any  of  those  published  in  Mr.  Poole's  '  Hora; 
^gyptiacae.' 

W.  S.  W.  Vaux. 


I 


I  PROPOSE  reading  to  the  Society  this  evening  a  short 
notice  of  the  recent  researches  at  Cyreme,  on  the  north 
coast  of  Africa,  which  have  been  admirably  conducted 
by  Lieutenant  II,  M.  Smith,  R,E,,  and  Lieutenant 
Porcher,  R.N.,  the  result  of  which  has  been  the  en- 
richment of  the  National  Collection  by  a  very  consi- 
derable number  of  statues,  statuettes,  bas-reliefs,  and 
inscriptioDs,  many  of  them  of  considerable  excellence 
as  works  of  art,  and  all,  from  the  circumstances  under 
which  they  were  discovered,  or  the  localities  in  which 
they  were  found,  of  archaeological  interest. 

For  most  of  these  details  I  am  indebted  to  Lieute- 
nant Smith,  who  has  kindly  placed  at  my  disposal  the 
letters  he  addressed  from  time  to  time  to  Earl  Russell 
and  Mr.  Panizzi,  and  which  I  trust  we  may,  ere  long» 
see  embodied  in  a  volume  to  contain  a  personal  n:ir- 
rative  of  the  services  of  himself  and  of  the  expedition 
under  his  charge,  with  many  details  of  high  impor- 
tance to  the  scholar  and  the  antiquary.  I  should 
add,  that  in  the  conduct  of  such  researches  Lieu- 
tenant Smith  is  no  novice,  his  three  years'  associa- 
tion with  Mr.  Newton,  during  the  excavations  at  Hali- 

TOL.  Til.  2  G 


carnassus,  Branchidif ,  and  Cnidus,  having  given  him 
a  practical  Iiuowlcdg;e  that  can  only*  be  acquired  by 
constant  observation  during  a  loiij^-continued  series  of 
researches.  And»  more  tlian  this,  lliat  to  Lieutenaut 
Smith  we  owe  the  first  conception  of  that  restoration 
uf  the  Mausoleum  Mr.  Newton  ha*  published  in  his 
recent  volume,  a  work  deserving  at  least  the  praise 
of  boldness  and  ingenuity,  even  though  it  may  not 
carry  conviction  to  professional  architects.  Witli 
such  a  previous  training,  we  need  not  wonder  that  llie 
expedition  he  organized  and  superintended  has  turned 
out  a  couiplete  success,  and  that — thanks  to  his  skill 
and  perseverance — we  now  possess  a  most  remarkable 
collection  of  monuments  from  Cyrene. 

\\  ith  regard  to  the  site  of  tliese  researches,  I  may 
add  that  attention  had  been  for  many  years  directed  to 
Cyrene,  as  a  spot  wherein  it  was  likely  that  consider- 
able discoveries  would  be  made,  and  that  this  hope  had 
l>een  confirmed  quite  recently,  when  three  years  since 
Mr.Werry,our  Vice-Consul  at  Ben-Gliazi  (the  ancient 
llesperides  and  Berenice),  brought  to  England  a  cu- 
rious collection  of  vases  and  terra-cotla  figures  (many 
of  them   in  fine  style  and  excellent  preservation),  a 
portion  of  which  were  purchased  by  the  Trustees  of  the 
British  Museum.    Many  of  these  terra-cotlas  are  a^ 
early  as  the  third  century  before  Christ,  and  bear  testi- 
mony to  a  [lure  school  of  Greek  art  then  existing  ^ 
that  ancient  Greek  city,  being  in  themselves,  from  if"** 
chtnpness  with  which  they  must  have  been  execut^^ 
in  ancient  times,  a  better  test  than  marble  statues 
the  loctil  art  of  the  place  where  they  may  be  found. 

1  shall  now  proceed  to  describe  Lieutenant  Smiti"3 
L'xcavatioiis ;  but  before  I  do  so  I  think  it  well  that 


I 


I 


RECENT    EXCAVATItlNS    AT    CYItENE.  401 

houlcl  give  a  brief  notice  of  what  was  known  of  Cyrene 
previously  to  the  late  expedition. 

CjTeiie,  in  north  latitude  33^,  east  longitude  19^  waa 
the  chief  town  of  a  district  called  after  it  the  Cyrenaka, 
and  was  the  most  important  of  the  Hellenic  colonies 
along  the  north  coast  of  Africa.  The  city  itself  was  the 
chief  of  five  principal  towns,  the  others  heing  Barce^ 
Teuchira  (afterwards  Arsinoe),  Hcsperides  (afterwards 
Berenice),  and  Apoilonia.  These  together  formed  the 
Libyan  Penlapolis,  originally  a  narrow  strip  of  land 
along  the  northern  seashore  of  Africa,  and  in  position 
as  nearly  as  possible  due  south  of  the  Peloponnesus. 

The  city  was  founded  by  Battus  and  a  number  of 
Dorian  colonists,  who  migrated  thither  from  the  is- 
land of  Thera  in  B.C.  631,  and  was  built  on  the  edge 
of  the  u])per  of  two  terraces  by  which  the  table-land 
sinks  down  towards  the  Mediterranean,  on  a  spot 
backed  by  mountains  to  the  south  in  full  view  of 
the  sea,  distant  about  nine  miles  to  the  north,  and 
at  an  elevation  of  nearly  two  thousand  feet.  It  is 
said  to  have  derived  its  name  from  Cyre,  a  remark- 
able perennial  fountain,  which,  springing  from  the 
upper  terrace  at  about  one  thousand  eight  hundred 
feet  above  the  sea,  flows  thence  to  the  Mediterranean, 
through  a  ravine  of  great  beauty.  This  fountain  the 
Greeks  naturally  dedicated  to  Apollo:  Callimachus, 
himself  a  native  of  the  city  and  a  descendant  of  her 
founder,  speaking  of  it  in  one  of  his  hymns  as  ^AttoK- 
;Xwj/oy  xp^vi]  (Ilj'mn.  in  Apoll.  88).  A  later  mythology 
connected  the  ibuntain  with  the  god,  and  related  how 
Cyrene,  a  Thessalian  nympli,  beloved  of  Apollo,  was 
carried  by  him  to  Africa,  in  a  chariot  drawn  by  swans. 
i(Muller,  Dorier,  ii.  3,  ^  7.) 

2  E  2 


40S 


RECENT    EXCAVATtUNS    AT    CYRENE. 


r 


1  need  not  enter  into  a  history  of  this  famous  colony: 
it  will  probably  suffice  if  I  state  that  the  first  Cyreniaii 
dynasty  lasted  from  b.c.  6-30  to  about  b.c.  430,  and 
Ihat  during  this  period  a  much  closer  connectioa  sub- 
sisted between  the  colonists  and  the  native  Libyans 
than  was  usually  the  case  in  other  Greek  settlements. 
Herodotaa  himself  states  that  the  Libyans  imitated  the 
customs  of  the  Greeks,  and  thai  the  population  soon 
obtained  a  large  admixture  of  Libyan  blood,  by  the  io- 
termarriage  of  the  two  races.  (Her.  iv.  170,  186-189. 
Grote,  iv.  53.) 

On  the  overthrow  of  the  Battiad^c  a  republic  was  es 
lablished,  of  the  constitution  of  which  we  have  a  few 
notes  in  the  '  Politics' of  Aristotle  ;  we  know  further 
that  it  was  not  managed  well,  and  that  the  chief  power 
in  a  few  years  fell  into  the  hands  of  a  succession  of 

Tt/pavvoi. 

As  an  evidence  of  the  extent  to  which  art  was  culti- 
vated at  Cyrene,  we  have  evidence  from  the  cain&  of 
that  city  and  the  neighbouring  town  of  Barce  (now  El- 
Merdj).     Of  these  the  earliest  certainly  ascend  to  the 
first  days  of  the  republic,  even  if  they  were  not  struck 
by  one  or  other  of  its  last  kings.     The  head  on  the  ob- 
verse represents  that  of  Jupiter  Ammon,  and,  on  the  re- 
versCj  is  the  Silphium, — the  Narthex  or  Assafcetida 
plant, — the  staple  trade  of  ancient  Cyrene    This  plant 
still  exists,  and  is  considered  dangerous  food  fur  ani* 
male  which  have  not  been  seasoned  to  it. 

In  the  time  of  Alexander  the  people  concluded  a 
treaty  with  that  monarch,  and  after  bis  death  the  whole 
country  became  a  dependency  of  Egypt,  and  finally  * 
province  of  the  Roman  Empire. 

Its  decay  seems  to  have  dated  from  its  subjection  to 


RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CYBENE. 


403 


I 


I 


I 


tbe  Grwco- Egyptian  dynasty  of  the  Ptolemies,  as  those 
rulers  greatly  favoured  the  port  of  Cyrene,  ApoHonia, 
now  Marsa  el  Sousa.  During  the  height  of  its  power, 
we  know,  from  ancient  authorities,  that  the  commerce 
of  Cyrene  was  very  extensive  with  Greece  and  Egypt 
in  Silpkiu?n^  and  to  this,  as  we  have  seen,  the  coins  heaf 
direct  testimony,  this  plant  being  the  invariable  type. 
1  may  further  remark,  that  a  very  curious  vase  exists 
in  the  collection  of  the  Bibliotheque  at  Paris,  with  &  re- 
presentation on  it  of  the  King  Arcesilaus  presiding  over 
the  sale  of  the  assafoetida ;  we  perceive  on  it  the  scales 
used  for  weighing  it,  etc.,  and  the  names  of  the  per- 
sonages present  are  written  over  them.  On  tlie  other 
hand,  the  commercial  relations  of  Cyrene  with  Car- 
thage were  always  on  a  footing  of  great  distrust,  and 
the  trade  along  its  west  frontier  was  almost  entirely  con- 
ducted by  smuggling. 

Cyrene  was  also  celebrated  as  the  birthplace  or  resi- 
dence of  many  men  of  eminence.  As  early  as  Herodo- 
tus (ill.  131  )^  it  was  famous  for  its  physicians  ;  it  gave 
its  name  to  a  philosophic  sect  founded  by  one  of  its 
eons,  Aristippusj  another,  Carneades,  created  the  third 
or  New  Academy  at  Athens  i  while  it  could  justly  boast 
of  one  of  its  sons,  the  chief  singer  among  the  minor 
poets  of  Greece,  Callimachus,  and  of  the  well-known 
rhetorician  Synesius,  the  Christian  Bishop  of  Apollonia. 

Besides,  these  more  general  facts  which  we  maygather 
from  ancient  history,  it  was  further  known,  through  the 
visits  of  modern  travellers,  that,  though  much  defaced, 
there  were  still  extensive  ruins  of  the  ancient  town  in 
situ,  among  which  could  he  traced  the  course  of  several 
streets,  and  the  foundations  of  temples,  theatres,  and 
tombs.     Many  fragments  of  sculpture  were   known 


404 


hecemt  excavations  at  cyeene. 


to  be  still  visible,  though  for  the  most  part  sadly  in- 
jured bv'  the  hand  of  man  or  the  corroding'  action  of 
the  weather,  to  which,  owing  to  its  position  on  a  moun- 
tainous spur  projecting  into  the  Mediterranean,  Cyrenc 
ivonlil  seem  to  have  been  peculiarly  exposed.  %. 

On  the  face  of  the  terrace  on  which  the  city  Is  built, 
is  a  vast  subterraneous  necropolis,  and  the  ancient  road 
connecting  Cyrene  with  its  port,  Apollonia,  still  exists. 
Many  of  its  ruins,  so  far  as  they  could  be  examined 
superficially,  have  been  described,  at  greater  or  less 
length,  in  tlie  works  of  Delia  Cella,  Pacho,  Beechey, 
or  Barth. 

It  was  natural  therefore  to  expect,  that  should  the 
time  ever  arrive  when  systematic  excavations  could 
be  carried  on,  such  labours  would  not  prove  fruitless, 
and  that  the  result  would  be  the  discovery  of  a  collec- 
tion of  ancient  monuments  worthy  of  heiu^  conveve<i 
to  this  country.  How  well  this  expectation  has  been 
fulfilled  I  shall  now  endeavour  to  demonstrate,  by 
reading  such  portions  of  Lieutenant  Smith's  dispatches 
as  describe  the  course  he  pursued,  and  the  progress  of 
his  researches.  In  doing  so,  however,  I  can  do  hardly 
more  than  indicate  the  more  important  monuments  he 
has  discovered,  as  time  would  fail  rae  to  perform  this 
duty  as  fully  as  I  should  myself  wish. 

Lieutenants  Smith  and  Porcher  left  Malta  on  No- 
vember 1 9,  I860,  in  H.M.S.  gunboat  'Boxer/  and  pro 
ceeded  to  Tripoli  for  the  purpose  of  having  an  intervie 
with  the  Pacha,  and  of  obtaining  the  necessary  letters 
addressed  to  his  Caimacan  at  Ben-Ghazi ;  these  the^ 
found  had  already  been  sent  on  by  Her  Majesty's  Co 
sul-Generat,  Colonel  Herman      They  accordingly  If 
25,  and  reached  Ben-Ghazi  uiid 


ipoli 


;ovemi 


RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CYRENE, 


405 


I 


I 

I 
I 


I 


I 


sail  on  the  30th,  their  original  intention  having  been 
to  have  gone  first  to  Derna  (the  ancient  Darnis).  The 
late  deeply -regretted  Vice-Consul  Crowe,  however, 
strongly  advised  thetn  to  make  Ben-Ghazi  tlieir  start- 
ing-point, as  otherwise  there  would  be  much  difficulty 
in  procuring  the  requisite  camels  and  horses ;  add  to 
which  the  anchorage  at  Derna  is  much  exposed,  and 
very  unsafe  in  winter  for  shipping  of  any  sixe. 

After  a  detention  of  twelve  days,  spent  in  procuring 
fit  means  of  conveyance,  the  travellers  started  from. 
Ben-Gltazi  on  December  12,  with  a  smal!  caravan  con- 
B[!stlng  of  seventeen  men,  ten  camels,  and  seven  horses. 
They  were  accompanied  by  Mr.  G.  Cesareo,  the  Chan- 
celier  of  the  Consulate,  who,  from  his  knowledge  of 
the  language  and  people  of  the  country,  proved  an  in- 
valuable assistant  to  them.  Mr.  Vice-Consul  Crowe  had 
also  taken  the  opjiortunity  of  a  number  of  Arab  chiefs 
being  at  the  time  at  Ben-Ghazi,  to  impress  upon  them 
the  importnnce  of  treating  Lieutenant  Smith  and  his 
party  with  due  consideration,  a  course  the  more  neces- 
sary as  they  had  determined  to  take  no  soldiers  with 
them,  and  to  rely  entirely  upon  the  respect  generally 
felt  by  the  Arabs  for  the  English  name. 

As  the  firman  gave  them  authority  to  excavate  and 
remove  any  antiquities  they  might  find,  tbey  engaged 
the  services  of  four  blacks  at  Ben-Ghazi ;  these,  with  a 
few  tools  and  some  tents  from  the  Government  stores 
at  Malta,  ibrmed  their  whole  outfit. 

The  journey  from  Ben-Ghazi  occupied  twelve  dnvs, 
the  ground  being  slippery  after  a  heavy  fall  of  rain. 
The  country  is  remarkably  fine  the  whole  way,  and  the 
scenery  generally  of  a  very  pleasing  description,  its  cha-« 
racter  not  unfrequently  remind  ihcni  of  an  extensive 


406 


BECENT   EXCAVATIONS    AT   CYfiENE. 


park  in  England.  The  population  was  small  in  proper-' 
tion  to  the  extent  of  country,  only  three  or  four  Bedouin 
encampments  having  been  noticed  on  the  way,  which, 
by  the  circuitous  route  they  took,  could  not  be  less 
than  a  hundred  and  eighty  miles.  Almost  all  the  aoil 
seems  well  adapted  for  cultivalioQ, although  only  asmall 
portion  is  ploughed  by  the  Arabs:  when,  however, 
there  is  the  usual  amount  of  rain  in  winter,  this  portion 
yields  a  plentiful  harvest  of  corn.  No  means  whatever 
are  made  use  of  by  the  Arabs  for  storing  the  winter 
rains,  hence  in  summer  they  are  obliged  to  drive  their 
flocks  long  distances  to  obtain  water,  and  many  exten- 
sive and  beautiful  plains  are  then  absolutely  deserted. 
Aftgr  a  dry  winter  the  Arabs  are  reduced  almost  to 
starvation,  by  the  failure  of  the  crops  aud  the  death  of 
the  cattle,  which  form  their  sole  property. 

About  halfway  from  Ben-Ghazi,  Lieutenant  Smitb 
baited  for  two  days  at  Al-Merdj  (the  ancient  Barca), 
which,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  excellence  and  beauty 
of  its  coins,  must  in  the  days  of  its  greatness  have 
been  a  successful  rival  to  Cyrene  itself  in  the  produc- 
tion of  works  of  art.   It  is  now  one  of  the  two  Turk- 
ish military  forts  in  the  Cyrenaica,  Ghegheb  being  (he 
other.    At  these,  small  garrisons  of  about  a  hundred 
men  each  are  maintained.     The  chief  object  of  th 
Miidirs,  or  rulers  of  these  castles,  seems  to  be  to  ex 
tort  as  much  money  as  they  can  from  the  Arabs  :  firs 
for  themselves  ;  secondly,  for  the  Caimacan  of  the  dis 
trict;   and  thirdly,  the  public  chest.     The  traveller 
were  hospitably  received  by  the  Mudlr,  Al  Hadj  ber 
I'Aghar,    who  supplied  all    their  wants   during  the 
stay,  and  gave  them  plenty  of  barley  for  their  horses  an 
Cctmels. 


3 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CYRENE, 


407 


I 
I 

I 

I 

I 


They  finally  readied  Cyrene  on  December  23,  in  the 
midst  of  a  heavy  storm  of  wind  and  rain,  which  com- 
pelled them  to  seek  shelter  among  some  tombs  near  the 
Fountain  of  Apollo,  At  this  spot,  which  was  very 
convenient  from  its  vicinity  to  the  fountain,  they  finally 
took  up  their  residence. 

"Cyrene/'  says  Lieutenant  Smith,  "stands  on  the 
northern  or  seaward  edge  of  an  extensive  plateau, whose 
elevation  is  about  two  thousand  feet  above  the  level  of 
the  sea.  The  ground  rJescends  abruptly  to  another 
plateau  about  a  thousand  feet  below;  the  latter  extends 
nearly  to  the  sea,  where  there  is  a  rapid  descent  similar 
to  the  upper  one.  The  face  of  the  upper  slope  presents 
a  succession  of  rounded  hills  separated  by  deep  ravines 
[or  Wadys).  The  city  of  (Jyrene  occupies  two  of  these 
hills,  so  that  it  is  naturally  defended  on  three  sides  by 
steep  declivities,  and  is  divided  by  the  wady  into  two 
nearly  equal  portions;  most  of  the  buildings,  however, 
are  on  the  western  one.  The  principal  cemeteries  are 
on  the  face  of  the  slope  overlooking  tlie  lower  pla- 
teau east  and  west  of  the  city  itself;  all  round  the  city, 
however,  in  a  southern  direction,  there  are  innumer- 
able tombs.  The  view  from  the  city  is  magnificent; 
tiiere  is  an  unbroken  prospect,  east  and  west,  of  a  pla- 
teau beautifully  diversified  by  woods  and  valleys,  far  as 
the  eye  can  reach  ;  while  to  the  north  the  sea  itself  ia 
visible  at  a  distance  of  seven  or  eight  miles." 

Lieutenant  Smith  commenced  his  excavations  in  the 
western  cemetery,  but  a  brief  experience  convinced  him 
that  the  tombs  would  not  yield  much  to  repay  the  la- 
bour and  expense  of  digging,  Jn  that  having  been  them- 
selves excavated  in  the  rock,  they  had  been  peculiarly 
liable  to  be  ritled  by  the  successive  inhabitants  of  the 
country. 


408 


RECENT    EXCAl'ATIONS    AT    CYRBNE. 


"One  tomb  in  particular,"  says  he^  "showed  me 
how  little  was  to  be  expecled  frora  iurther  excavation^ 
The  daor  was  buried  four  or  five  feet  underground,  and 
when  1  enteied  I  found  the  tomb  ahuost  tilled  with  long 
thin  stalactites,  reaching  nearly  to  the  ^oor ;  I  had,  in 
fact,  to  break  them  off  to  get  in  at  all.  1  found  never- 
theless, that  the  tomb  had  been  entered  and  completely 
robbed  of  its  contents.  The  depth  of  the  door  below 
the  surface  and  the  great  length  of  the  stalactites,  which 
must  have  formed  since  the  tomb  was  entered,  would 
eeeni  to  show  that  it  had  been  piHaE;ed  very  many  years 
a;^o,  probably  in  the  time  of  the  early  Christians,  under 
the  Byzantine  empire.  We  accordingly  gave  up  the 
cemeteries  at  the  end  of  a  fortnight,  and  turned  our  at- 
tention to  the  remains  of  buildings  within  the  walls; 
we  chose  a  prominent  site  near  the  centre  of  the  city, 
which  seemed  to  be  that  of  a  small  temple,  with  a  large 
peribolus  enclosed  with  a  wall  or  portico.  We  began 
digging  all  round  the  walls  of  the  temple,  which  we 
found  ha<l  no  peristyle.  The  front  has  a  pronaos  with 
four  columns,  the  outer  ones  of  which  were  engaged  in 
the  lateral  walla.  It  seemed  to  have  been  originally  of 
the  Doric  order,  but  restored  in  later  times  in  Corin- 
thian. Its  size  was  only  47  by  '2iJ  feel,  while  the  co- 
lonnade of  the  portico  enclosing  the  peribolus  was 
nearly  300  by  '21)0  ieet.  The  colonnade  could  easily  be= 
traced  on  three  sides^  consisting  altogether  of  eighty- 
seven  columns,  viz.  thirty-three  on  each  side,  and 
twentv-three  at  the  end.  I  could  not  make  out  exactly 
how  the  opposite  end,  which  was  the  front,  had  been 
arranged.  A  gateway,  and  part  of  the  peribolus  wal 
on  the  south-west  side,  is  still  standing,  nearly  perfect; 
the  rest  is  a  heap  of  ruins  ;  while  the  position  of  th 


3 


BiECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CYIIENE. 


temple  itself  was  only  shown  by  a  swelling  of  the 
ground  in  the  middle. 

"After  clearing  out  the  space  outside  the  temple, 
we  commenced  digging  inside  the  cella,  and  were  soon 
rewarded  by  finding  a  statue  of  Bacclius,  which  pro- 
bably identified  the  buikiin^.  It  was  about  four  or  five 
t'etl  undergronnd,  lying  on  the  floor,  which  was  paved 
with  tiiiri  marble  slabs  ;  the  whole  interior,  liesidea^ 
bore  evidence  of  having  been  veneered  with  marble. 

"Tlie  statue  is  nearly  life-size,  and  was  perfect  with 
the  exception  of  the  head,  the  right  forearm,  and  the 
left  hand.  The  head  and  left  hand,  however,  were  dis- 
covered afterwards;  the  whole  is  in  excellent  preserva- 
tion. We  had  considerable  difficulty  in  removing  it 
without  injury  to  our  tomb,  owing  to  our  total  want  of 
any  means  for  raising  and  transporting  weights.  While 
making  preparations  we  had  a  tent  pitched  close  to  it, 
in  which  the  blacks  lived  to  protect  it  from  the  Arabs, 
whose  fanaticism  leads  them  to  destroy  every  statue 
and  inscription  which  they  see.  We  then  made  a  sort 
of  sledge  of  the  trunk  and  lower  branches  of  a  tree. 
On  this  the  statue  was  placed  by  means  of  poles  used 
as  levers  with  slings  attached;  a  camel  was  then  yoked 
to  the  sledge,  and  the  statue  lowered  in  safety  to  the 
tomb." 

The  next  excavations  were  made  above  one  of  the 
theatres,  on  the  side  of  the  street  which  leads  up  the 
central  valley  of  the  city.  Here  were  found  a  number 
of  marble  bases  of  columns  in  situ,  and  two  draped  but 
headless  statues,  about  life-size ;  one  of  them  was 
broken  ofi'  below  the  knee.  From  the  appearance  of 
the  marble,  it  was  conjectured  that  they  were  originally 
placed  in  the  open  air  in  the  spaces  between  the  co- 


■ 


410 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    GYRENE. 


lurans;  they  were  in  tolerable  preservation,  but  of  late 
workmanship. 

Lieutenant  Smith  then  set  his  blacks  to  excavate  a 
temple  near  the  fountain  of  Apollo,  called  by  Captain 
Beechey  that  of  Diana;  from  the  inscriptions,  however, 
found  on  its  site,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  it  was 
really  dedicated  to  ApoUo.  It  stands  in  the  middle  of 
the  platform  in  front  of  the  fountain,  in  one  of  the 
finest  positions  in  the  city. 

The  fountain  issues  into  the  middle  ravine  from  a 
channel  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  long,  cut  into  the 
heart  of  the  western  hill  of  the  city.  Below  the  fountain 
this  ravine  is  bridged  across  by  a  lofty  and  massive  re- 
taining wall,  still  standing  as  the  r«Je(fWJ«i(of  the  plat- 
form thus  formed.  The  water  of  the  fnuntain,  after 
traversing  the  platform,  falls  over  the  wall  and  finds  its 
way  down  the  wady  to  the  plain  below. 

The  temple  is  about  halfway  between  the  wall  and 
the  fountain.  It  is  of  the  prevailing  order  of  architec- 
ture, viz.  Doric,  and  has  been  of  considerable  size,  the 
columns  being  four  feet  two  inches  in  diameter. 

One  of  the  inscriptions  found  contains  the  well- 
known  name  of  Mark  Antony, 

Within  the  walls  of  the  cella  a  small  female  draped 
statue  in  marble,  three  feet  six  inches  high  was  found. 
The  surface  was  in  perfect  condition,  probably  ow^ing  to 
the  fact  that  it  was  discovered  nine  feet  under  the  sur- 
face soil.  The  head  was  not  originally  in  one  pico 
with  the  statue. 

Not  long  after  this,  Lieutenant  Smith  was  so  fortu 
nate  as  to  light  upon  the  most  valuable  relic  of  anti — 
quity  in  the  whole  of  his  excavations,  a  colossal  statue 
seven  feet  seven  infches  high,  of  Apollo  Cilharcedus 


RGCBNT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CVttENE. 


411 


I 


I 


It  was  found  within  the  walls  of  the  cella  of  the  same 
temple,  from  which  he  had  already  procured  severa. 
interesting  monuments. 

A  serpent  is  represented  twining  round  the  trunk  of  a 
tree,  which  partially  supports  the  statue,  and  along  the 
bow  and  quiver  which  are  by  the  left  side  of  it.  The 
body  is  nearly  naked,  with  some  very  graceful  drapery, 
deeply  undercut,  and  extending  from  the  left  shoulder 
to  the  knees.  The  material  is  Parian  marble,  and  it 
is  perfect,  except  that  the  right  arm  from  the  shoulder 
is  wanting,  and  the  left  arm,  which  was  evidently  hold- 
ing the  lyre  ;  the  lyre,  aiso^  has  lost  its  strings  in  the 
fall.  It  appears  to  have  been  found  lying  broken  into 
three  nearly  equal  pieces,  but  to  have  received  neither 
at  the  time  of  its  fall  nor  subsequently,  any  wanton 
injury.  It  was  fortunate,  when  the  limited  means  of 
transport  at  Lieutenant  Smith's  disposal  are  considered, 
that  it  was  discovered  broken  in  this  manner,  for  had 
it  been  entire  it  would  iiave  been  hardly  possible  for 
him  to  have  removed  it  uninjured.  Since  the  arrival 
of  the  monument  in  England  it  has  been  found  possible 
to  re-unite  all  the  pieces  so  perfectly  that  the  lines  of 
fracture  are  not  readily  distinguishable. 

From  the  loss  of  the  hand  there  may  be  some  doubt 
as  to  the  exact  motive  of  this  statue,  but  it  is  probable 
that  the  hand  was  raised  either  simply  over  the  head 
or  to  hold  the  plectrum.  There  are  many  statues  in 
the  museums  of  Europe,  the  attitudes  of  which  would 
support  either  of  these  hypotheses.  It  may  be  further 
remarked,  that  Apollo  is  represented  here  in  a  double 
charjcter :  as  the  bearer  of  the  lyre  he  is  the  god  of 
music,  Citharoedus ;  while  the  serpent  connects  him 
with  jEsculapius  and  the  healing  art,  in  which  charac- 
ter he  is  known  as  'laTpojMunis. 


412 


.ttECHNT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CVRENE. 


Five  more  marble  statuettes  were  found  about  the 
same  time,  all  perfect,  one  of  which  represents  a  wo- 
nian»  probably  the  Nymph  of  Cyrene,  strangling  a  lion. 
The  chief  interest  of  this  group  is  the  local  myth  it 
embodies.  As  a  work  of  art  little  need  be  said  about 
it,  as  it  is  unijuestiunably  very  late,  and  of  very  inferior 
execution.  Some  time  later  in  bis  researches.  Lieutenant 
Smith  found  a  relief  relating  to  the  same  myth,  where- 
on is  represented  the  same  scene,  with  the  addition  of 
the  goddess  Libya,  who  is  crowning  the  victorious 
nymph  with  a  wreath.  Under  this  bas-relief  is  a  curi- 
ous inscription  in  Greek  of  Roman  times,  from  which 
it  would  appear  that  it  has  been  vowed  and  set  up  as 
a  monument  by  some  one,  who  bad  received  liospitality 
from  the  people  of  Cyrene. 

The  excavations  of  the  temple  of  Apollo  being  still 
continued,  yielded  a  number  of  curious  and  interestitig 
relics;  among  these  were  several  heads,  which  could 
not,  however,  be  miide  to  fit  any  of  the  headless  statues 
previously  discovered.     Among  them  wiis  a  colossal 
statue,  seven  feet  high,  nearly  perfect,  though  broken 
in  half,  but  later  in  date  and  inferior  in  workmansliip 
to  the  Apollo;  a  beautiful  female  ht'lmeted  head,  doubt- 
less that  of  Minerva;  and  at  the  south-west  angle  of 
the  temple,  a  small  female  statae  resembrmg  the  on^ 
first  found.  The  right  hand  of  this  statue  holds  a  snak^ 
by  the  head,  the  body  of  which  encircles  the  arm- 
Near  the  same  place  were  found  two  small  male  sta— ^ 
tues.  partially  draped,  and  two  colossal  (iemalc  heads  - 
one  of  these  much  resembles  the  Apullu  in  style,  bu 
is  not  nearly  so  well  preserved ;  the  other  is  rathe 
larger,  and  in  much  better  condition,  being  quite  per 
feet  except  a  portion  of  the  nose,  which  has  been  broke 


anCENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CYRENB. 


413 


I 


off.  Many  other  curious  fragments,  which  time  does 
not  allow  ine  to  enumerate  here,  were  found  in  the 
western  half  o(' the  cella,  at  an  average  depth  often  to 
eleven  feel  below  the  present  surface.  It  seems  difficult 
at  first  sight  to  understand  how  it  is  that  so  many  and 
various  monuments  have  been  found  grouped  together 
in  one  building  ;  but  this  much  is  clear,  that  the  temple 
is  not  now  in  its  original  state,  but  has  been  used  in 
later  times  for  other  purposes  ;  it  is  intersected  by  nu- 
merous walls  and  arclies  of  concrete,  which  are  pro- 
bably of  Byzantine  times. 

It  must  always  be  borne  in  mind  in  these  and  simi- 
lar excavations,  that  on  or  near  the  surface  all  that  is 
found  is  of  Roman  times,  and  that  you  must  dig  well 
through  the  Roman  town  if  you  wish  to  find  relics  of 
the  Greek  city.  Practically  the  same  thing  has  hap- 
pened in  the  East  as  here  in  London  :  later  populations 
have  dwelt  in  succession  on  the  older  sites ;  and  all 
these  must  be  pierced  ere  we  attain  to  the  priniscval 
remains.  Doubtless  at  Cyrene  the  succession  may  be 
traced  np  through  the  modern  Arabic,  mediaeval  iSara- 
cenic,  Byzantine,  and  Roman,  to  the  purely  Greek  ori- 
ginals: whether  many  of  these  latter  have  been  reached 
is,  I  think,  a  matter  of  doubt. 

Lieutenant  Smith  then  proceeded  with  his  excava- 
tions, and  completed  the  investigations  of  some  ruins, 
probably  those  of  a  temple  near  the  stadium.  The  ar^ 
rangement  of  this  temple  was,  he  states,  peculiar.  The 
tntraiLce  is  in  the  ea&t  end.  Towards  the  west  end 
there  is  a  sort  of  pedestal  some  fifteen  leet  square, 
built  of  massive  blocks  of  stone;  on  this  probably  stood 
the  statue  of  the  divinity  to  whom  the  temple  was  de- 
dicated.   As  far  as  the  excavations  were  carried,  an  in- 


414       RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CYRENE. 

terior  colonnade  was  found  parallel  to  the  walls  of  the 
cella,  the  space  between  the  walls  and  the  faces  of  the 
columns  being  about  six  feet.  This  colonnade  is  o. 
marble  and  of  the  Corinthian  order»  but  the  building 
itself  is  Doric. 

In  the  course  of  these  labours  he  discovered  a  nuiC' 
ber  of  fragments  of  sculpture,  and  one  large  head  of 
good  style,  but  much  damaged,  and  in  the  pronaos  of 
the  large  temple  two  long  inscriptions,  one  consisting 
of  fifty-eight,  and  the  other  of  twenty-three  lines,  writ- 
ten in  double  columns.  These  would  seem  to  record  the 
names  of  the  persons  who  contributed  to  the  building 
and  furnishing  of  the  temple.  In  the  smaller  temple 
a  number  of  fragments  were  also  found,  including  a 
colossal  head  of  fine  style,  but  very  much  broken  ;  this 
head  must  have  belonged  to  a  statue  ten  or  eleven  {eei 
in  height.  Both  temples  seem  to  have  been  wilfully 
damaged,  as  even  the  interior  marble  columns  are 
broken  into  small  pieces.  On  obtaining  some  more 
workmen,  Mr.  Smith  removed  his  labourers  to  the  sitfi 
of  his  former  excavations  in  the  temple  of  Apollo, 
which  he  had  not  been  able  to  clear  out  before,  and 
proceeded  to  dig  below  the  level  of  the  mosaic  pave- 
ment which  formed  the  floor  of  the  cella;  he  at  the 
same  time  employed  another  i)ortion  of  his  party  ia 
excavating  another  small  temple-like  building,  abouB 
fifty  yards  to  the  westward  of  the  great  temple. 

In  the  cella  of  the  temple  of  Apollo,  under  the  pave 
tnent,  were  found  the  following  objects  : — 

1.  An  inscription  on  marble,  built  into  a  recent  wal 

2.  A  small  female  head  in  good  style  and  perfects 
preservation. 

3.  A  bronze  head,  life-size,  and  very  curious,  botEI-; 


RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CYRENE. 


415 


I 


I 


in  its  character  and  workmanship.  The  features  are 
markedly  African,  and  are  evidently  those  of  a  portrait. 
This  head  was  found  at  a  depth  of  eleven  feet  benealh 
the  pavement,  and  is  in  fair  preservation. 

I  may  remark  that  the  finding  heads  or  statues  in 
bronze  is  of  very  rare  occurrence,  the  value  of  the 
metal  having  made  it  worth  while  to  break  up  such 
monuments  whenever  delected.  Moreover,  bronze  is 
peculiarly  liable  to  suffer  from  the  effects  of  weather, 
and  cannot  therefore  be  preserved,  except  in  very  dry 
localities. 

Besides  this  head  a  number  of  small  bronze  frag- 
ments were  also  ntel  with,  including  some  small  horses' 
heads,  a  man  on  horseback,  etc.»  all  of  which  are  much 
injured,  apparently  by  fire ; — two  in8cri]>tions,  one  on  a 
piece  of  an  architrave,  the  other  on  the  face  of  a  marble 
pedestal ;  and  a  number  of  plain  terra-cotta  lamps  and 
some  small  fragments  of  gold  leaf.  Judging  from. the 
quantity  of  mosaic,  there  seems  no  doubt  that  the  cellg; 
of  this  temple  had  been  converted  to  other  uses  during 
Byzantine  times,  the  more  bo  that  the  space  between 
the  pavement  and  rock  for  a  depth  of  about  twelve 
feet  has  been  built  up  with  fragments  of  the  original 
Btructure,  such  as  the  interior  columns,  so  as  to  form 
small  passages  and  chambers  like  cellars ;  in  some 
cases  these  are  arranged  in  two  stories. 

Among  the  ruins  around  the  north-east  angle  of  the 
peristyle,  a  considerable  quantity  of  antiquities  more 
or  less  curious  were  met  with,  the  most  remarkable  of 
which  were : —  ; 

1 .  A  collection  of  small  heads. 

2.  A  small  naked  statue  of  Bacchus. 

3.  Two  draped  statuettes^ male  and  female. 


VOL.  VII. 


2  F 


416 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CVBENB. 


4.  A  colossal  draped  female  statue  in  good  style, 
broken  in  half,  but  in  good  preservation,  which  has 
been  reunited  since  its  arrival  in  England. 

5.  A  statue,  somewhat  larger  than  life,  of  an  old  man, 
ivhichj  for  want  of  a  better  name,  Lieutenant  Smith  has 
called  a  statue  of  a  philosopher. 

6.  A  female  statue  of  a  huntress,  probably  Diana  or 
the  nymph  Cyrene,  rather  less  than  life-size,  in  good 
preservation,  and  perfect  except  the  right  forearm;  tlie 
surface  is  in  good  condition.  The  drapery  is  gathered 
up  in  a  double  girdle,  so  as  to  fall  only  to  the  knee. 
On  the  pedestal,  to  the  right  of  the  figure,  a  homid  is 
sitting  on  his  haunches. 

Near  these  was  found  also  a  female  seated  €gure, 
nearly  perfect,  and  wanting  only  the  hands  and  one  of 
the  feet.  It  is  almost  a  copy  of  a  colossal  seated  tigure 
which  was  lying  near  it,  above  ground,  and  which  has 
also  been  removed.  It  is  the  same  statue  as  is  men- 
tioned by  Captain  Beechey  in  his  account  of  his  visit 
to  Cyrene,  and  considered  by  him  a  statue  of  Diana; 
Lieutenant  Smithy  however,  has  discovered  an  inscrip- 
tion on  the  base^  apparently  reading  APXIPPAN 
riTOAEMAlOY,  and  has  conjectured  from  this  dis- 
covery that  the  statue  is  that  of  a  woman  named  Ar- 
chippa,  of  the  family  of  the  Ptolemies.  It  is  very  mucb 
broken,  and  the  upper  part  is  altogether  wanting. 

The  girdle  encircling  the  waist  of  the  smaller  one  "*H 
coloured  on  both  edges  with  a  narrow  strip  of  brig^i*^ 
vermilion.     It  is  in  two  parts,  and  has  been  so  ori 
nally.  Close  by  it  was  found  a  square  pedestal,  beari 
on  one  face  the  inscription  TElZflNAX. 

In  the  small  temple-like  building  to  the  west  w« 
found  a  small  statuette;  a  head,  life-size,  much  brok^^i 


RECENT    HXCAVATlOtiS    AT   tVllESfe. 


417 


I 


and  apparently  a  portrait ;  and  two  small  heads,  one 
of  which  is  peculiar,  as  the  eyes  have  been  separate, 
and  made  to  fit  into  the  sockets. 

I  may  add  the  following  Ust  of  some  of  the  other 
remarkable  objects  of  antiquity  collected  by  Lieutenants 
Smith  and  Porcher;  but  I  must  at  the  same  time  state 
that  I  have  purposely  omitted  many  objects  of  in- 
terest, lest  my  account  of  them,  necessarily  too  brief, 
fihould  seem  too  much  like  a  catalogue  raisonne. 

Thus,  among  those  I  may  particularize  are: — 

1 .  The  right  leg  of  a  colossal  statue,  probably  as  a 
piece  of  workmanship,  the  finest  fragment  Lieutenant 
Smith  discovered. 

2.  A  remarkably  perfect  bust  of  Antoninus  Pius, 
with  the  nose  uninjured. 

3.  A  series  of  busts  of  members  of  the  Roman  im- 
jKfial  families,  Aurelins,  Verus,  Commodus,  Severus  ; 
and  one  exhibiting  the  same  headdress  as  is  usual  in 
tlie  case  of  Faustina  Junior. 

4.  A  statue  of  an  empress  of  the  time  of  Domitian, 
nearly  six  feet  high. 

5.  An  architectural  statue  of  a  bearded  Pan,  sup- 
porting a  bracket. 

G.  The  pedestal  of  a  statue,  inscribed  (r)JVtHou  Kop- 
vrjKiov  Aem-oKov^  the  Dame  of  the  first  Propmetor  of 
Cyrene,  about  which  I  am  bound  however  to  state  that 
the  head  looks  considerably  later  thtin  the  time  of  that 
well-known  Roman  officer,  and  more  than  this,  that  the 
spelUng  of  the  name  in  the  Greek  is  peculiar,  though 
not  absolutely  new. 

Lastly.  A  head  remarkable  for  the  irides  of  the 
eyes  having  been  cut  out,  with  traces  of  greenish 
colour  in  the  eye.     The  top  of  the  head  has  beea  cut 

Sf2 


418       RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CTRENE. 

flat,  and  marks  are  visible  where  movable  hair  was 
fitted  on. 

In  conclusion,  I  may  state  that  the  entire  collection 
consists  of  nearly  two  hundred  objects,  the  majority  of 
which  are  statues  or  slatiiettes ;  and  that  Lieuteaant 
Smith  infers  from  the  objects  found  in  them  respeo 
lively,  that  he  has  made  out  the  sites  of  temples  of 
Apollo,  Bacchus,  Venus,  and  possibly,  too,  that  of  a 
palace  of  Ptolemy;  and  that  during  the  period  he  spent 
in  that  part  of  Africa,  he  had  opportunity  of  visiting 
the  ancient  sites  of  Darnis,  Barca,  and  of  several  other 
places,  at  which  there  are  still  remaining  several  monu- 
ments of  antiquity,  though  it  may  be  doubtful  how  far 
they  would  repay  the  labour  and  cost  of  excavation. 

Of  the  artistic  value  of  this  collection  there  will 
doubtless  be  considerable  difference  of  opinion,  and 
this  not  only  as  to  the  skill  of  the  actual  workmanship 
displayed  on  many  of  the  objects,  but  also  as  to  the  dale 
to  which  they  are  to  be  assigned  and  the  artists  wlio 
were  entrusted  with  their  execution.    Nor  is  it  easy  to 
determine  these  questions  satisfactorily  with  regard  to 
fiome,  and  these  the  finest  and  most  interesting'^  speci- 
mens.    Thus,  the  Apollo  has  been  hailed  by  somear 
cheeologists  as  an  unquestionable  monument  of  a  schwl 
of  which  we  have  few  existing  examples,  the  late  Mace- 
donian, that  is  of  the  third  and  second  century  b.c.-- 
a  period  when  art  had  begun  to  decline  from  the  gran- 
deur it  had  exhibited  before  the  Peloponnesian  \Var,  in 
the  days  of  Phidias  and  his  immediate  successors,  but 
when  it  bad  not  however  declined  so  far,  as  mayl'^ 
seen  in  the  abundant  examples  of  the  best  Roman  *•' 
Augustan  period,     The  advocates  of  this  view  poin' 
out  that  the  artist's  chief  object  has  been  to  please 


KECGNT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CYRENE. 


41& 


I 


rather  tlian  to  produce  a  triie  reprcBentation  ;  that  the 
drapery  is  treated  mechanically  and  without  feeling,  and 
that  the  accessories  have  been  crowded  upon  it  without 
care  and  judgment.  They  therefore  suppose  that  it 
may  have  been  executed  in  the  early  part  of  the  third 
century  b.c,  for  one  of  the  Egyptian  monarchs,  If  thi* 
be  true,  we  obtain  a  valuable  link  in  the  chain  of  the 
monuments  of  Greek  art  now  in  the  Museum.  Thus, 
the  seated  figures  from  Branchidpe  demonstrate  what 
Greek  art  was  in  its  infancy;  the  sculptures  of  the  Par- 
thenon exhibit  its  grandeur  in  repose;  thePhigaleiaa 
inarbtes  and  the  Mausoleum  sculptures  its  vigour  in 
action.  Lastly,  then,  we  come  to  the  Cyrene  Apollo, 
and  the  Demeter  and  Ceres  lately  discovered  by  Mr. 
Newton  at  Cnidus. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  are  not  a  few  who  hold 
that  it  is  a  copy  of  the  Roman  period,  some  indeed 
urging  that  its  date  is  not  earlier  than  the  statues  of 
Antinoiis,  and  found  their  arguments  mainly  on  the 
admitted  inequality  to  be  traced  in  the  workmanship  of 
its  different  partSt  when  examined  by  a  practised  eye. 
Certain  it  is,  that  as  a  statue  it  has  great  merits  and 
great  defects;  the  attitude  is  noble  and  graceful,  the 
face  full  of  sweetness,  the  form  and  surface  excellently 
sculptured,  and  the  drapery  well  arranged.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  expression  of  the  face,  with  the  long 
hair  and  attitude  of  the  statue,  makes  the  representa- 
tion too  feminine  for  it  to  be  included  among  the  finest 
Greek  works.  In  the  drapery  an  attempt  is  made  to 
produce  a  correct  idea  on  the  mind  of  the  spectator 
by  lines  and  deep  cuttings,  instead  of  by  faithful  copy- 
102  of  folds  and  curves.     In  this  therefore  the  student 


win  notice  a  marked  difference  between  the  workman- 


420  BBC&NT    EXCAVATIONS    AT   CYRENB. 

ship  of  this  statue  and  that  of  the  pedimeatal  statues 
of  the  Partheaon. 

Id  conclusion,  I  am  sure  that  the  Society  will  agree 
with  me  that  its  best  thanks  are  due  to  Laeutenants 
Smith  and  Porcher,  for  the  able  work  they  have  been 
able  to  accomplish,  often  with  only  three  or  four  «s> 
sistant  blacks ;  and  to  her  Majesty's  Government,  for 
the  zeal  with  which  they  have  supported  these  officers, 
and  the  liberality  with  which  they  have  supplied  the 
ships  necessary  to  transport  these  monuments  in  safety 
to  England. 

W.  S.  W.  Vaoi. 


421 


XV.— OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  'POPOL  VUH,'  OR  THE 
BOOKS  OP  THE  NATIONAL  HISTORY  OF  GUATE- 
MALA;  ALSO  REMARKS  ON  THE  COMMENTARY. 

Br    WtLLIAU     BOLLABBT,     F.B.O.B.,    COEB.     HBU.    UNIV.    CHILE,    OT 
AHBI.  BTHN.  IOC,  OT    ETHN.  SOC.  LONDON,  ETC. 

(Read  Jane  Iltb,  1662.) 

I  TRUST  it  will  not  be  considered  an  intrusion,  in  bring- 
ing before  this  Society  an  account  of  what  appears  to 
have  some  claim  to  the  consideration  of  the  learned  in 
literature. 

The  Red  Man  of  the  United  States  had  and  has  still 
vague  traditions  concerning  his  ancestors,  some  of 
which  have  literary  and  poetical  merit. 

Coming  south  to  Mexico,  traditions  and  historical 
matters  assume  larger  proportions ;  but  it  is  on  arriv- 
ing in  Central  America,  including  Guatemala  (which 
formerly  extended  from  the  south  of  Mexico  to  the 
Isthmus  of  Darien),  we  find  a  great  abundance  of  stone 
ruins  with  elaborate  and  peculiar  carvings,  the  work  of 
nations  long  since  passed  away,  such  as  those  in  Yu- 
catan, of  Uxmal,  Chichen,  Palenque,  etc. 

Guatemala  is  literally  covered  with  almost  unde- 
Scribed  ruins.  To  the  east,  in  Honduras,  are  the  monu- 
mental remains  of  Copan,  and  to  the  south-east,  those 
of  Mitla,  the  "  city  of  the  dead."     However,  it  is  in 


422 


NATIONAL    HI&TORY 


regard  to  ancient  Guatemala  and  its  literature,  1  have 
to  call  your  attention. 

I  may  observe,  that  further  south  particularly,  with 
high  country  at  Timana,  Bogota,  in  New  Granada, 
stone  remains  are  to  be  seen,  but  of  their  builders  we 
know  nothing. 

Passing  onwards  to  the  table-lands  of  Quito,  we  find 
a  few  remains  of  ancient  nations ;  their  Scyris,  or  kings, 
were  conquered  by  the  later  Tncas  of  Peru. 

We  now  come  to  CuzcOj  the  capital  of  the  Incas,  the 
last  dynasty  of  native  rulera.  All  over  this  country  are 
stone  remains  of  pre-Incarial  nations,  as  well  as  those 
of  the  Tncas ;  and  now,  independently  of  pretty  fair 
historical  records,  we  have,  appertaining  to  literature, 
poems,  songs,  and  even  dramatic  compositions  ;  of  the 
latter  is  the  drama  of  "  Ollanta^  or  the  Severity  of  a 
Father  and  the  Generosity  of  a  King ;"  also  the  tragedy 
of  "  Uscar  Pancar,"  concerning  the  unfortunate  love  of 
the  Princess  Ccori-thica,  the  Golden  Flower. 

There  are  some  other  poetical  and  literary  compo- 
sitions connected  with  the  New  World,  which  I  sliall 
have  much  pleasure  in  submitting  to  the  Society  at  a 
future  period,  should  such  be  thought  of  sufficient 
importance. 


The  following  is  the  title  of  this  rather  curious  worl*^ 

'Popol  Vuh  ;  le  livre  sacr^  et  les  mythes  de  I'antiq 
t^  Amdricaine,  avec  les  livres  h^roiques  et  historiqa 
des   Quichfe.     Ouvrage   originale   des   Indigenes 
Guatemala,    Texte  Quiche  et  traduction  Fran^aise  . 
el  un  Commentaire  sur  la  mythologie  el  les  migralia 


OP    GUATEMALA.. 


423 


I 


des  peoples  anciens  de  TAm^rique  ;'  par  I'Abbd  Bras- 
seur  de  Bourbourg.' 

In  1857,  the  Abbe  published  a  work  in  four  volumes, 
'  Histoire  des  Nations  civiUsees  du  Mexique  et  de 
TAmenque  Cent  rale." 

For  the  facts  he  brought  together,  the  student  of 
American  literature  was  obliged  ;  but  when  expressing 
£oroe  of  bis  own  theories,  he  could  not  be  considered 
a  safe  master. 

Before  proceeding  furtlier,  I  may  mention  as  guides 
to  this  subject,  Triibner'a  '  Bibliotheca  Glottica,"  pp. 
157—8,  for  details  of  words,  grammars,  and  vocabula- 
ries of  the  Quiche  languages  ;*  Juarros,  '  Historia  del 
Reyno  de  Guatemala,'  translated  by  Lieutenant  Baily, 
in  1823. 

I  would  also  recommend  the  student  of  American 
antiquities,  ere  he  reade  the  '  Popol  Vuh,'  to  a  re- 
perusal  of  the  **  Preliminary  View  of  Ancient  Mexican 
Civilization/'  in  Prescott's  History  of  the  Conquest 
of  Mexico;  and  lastly,  if  the  long-promised  work,  by 
Messrs.  Squier  and  Aubin,  on  the  '  Antiquities  of 
Central  America,'  was  published,  this  of  course  must 
be  consulted. 

After  the  Abbe's  introduction  to  the  *  Popol  Vuh/ 
comes  the  "  Notice  bibliographique  sur  le  Livre  Sacre," 
from  which  we  learn,  that  it  is  divided  into  four  parts. 

'   BertrB.tid,  Paris.    Trhhner,  London.    1S61.    One  volume. 

2  Since  these  oHjservations  were  written,  the  AbbS  has  jrablislicd 

the  *  GraDidlica  de  la  l^enguH  Quiche,'  In  Spanish  and  French  ;  with 

an  essay  on  the  poetry,  musjc.  dnociiig,  and  dra.m!ktic  art  in  Mexico 

and   Guatemala,  before   the   SjnEiniah   Conquest.     (Bertrand,   Pam, 

[Truhner,  London,]     This  volume  contaJna  the  "  Rabinal-Achi,"  or  the 

rtragic  di-ama  and  ballet  of  the  Tu.n,     (See  cud  of  psper  for  strnie 

pnrticulars  of  this  dramatic  coropoEitinn.) 


424 


NATJONAL    HISTOay 


The  Abb^  says  the  first  two  appear  to  have  been  the 
originEil  of  the  '  Teo-Amoxtli,'  a  divine  book  of  the 
ToUccs  ;  an  opinion  to  which  we  are  not  inclined  wholly 
to  subscribe.  The  last  two  portions  contain  tradi- 
tions relating  to  very  olden  times,  concluding  with  the 
history  of  the  Quiches  and  their  rulers  up  to  the 
period  of  the  Spanish  conquest  of  Guatemala. 

This  '  Popol  Vuh'  was  put  into  its  present  state 
some  ten  to  fifteen  years  after  the  Spaniards  conquered 
the  country.  The  invaders-  taught  the  natives  their  lan- 
guage, the  alphabet  of  which,  with  the  assistance  of  the 
Quiche,  picture-writing,  formed  a  sort  of  hieroglyphical 
signs ;  these,  with  what  had  been  preserved  by  mennory, 
some  Quiche  chief  or  priest  either  wrote  or  dictated. 
The  writer  himself  says,  "  This  we  have  written  after 
the  word  of  God  had  been  brought  to  us  and  Chris- 
tianity introducedj  and  we  produce  this  book  for  the 
reason  that  the  '  libra  del  comun,'  or  old  national 
book,  is  not  now  to  be  found  {it  was  probably  destroyed 
by  the  first  Spaniards),  wherein  it  was  clearly  seen 
tiiat  our  ancestors  came  from  the  other  side  of  the 
sea."  Tbis  statement  has  no  reference  to  these  ances- 
tors having  crossed  the  Atlantic,  as  it  is  more  likely 
that  they  came  from  Yucatan,  across  the  Bay  of  Hod- 
duras. 

The  Abbe  states  that  the  '  Popol  Vuh'  is  the  first 
of  a  series  of  documents  in  the  native  languages,  to 
serve  in  the  study  of  the  history  and  philology  of 
ancient  America. 

With  this  production  in  Quiche,  the  Codex  Cak- 
chiquel  in  another  language  or  dialect  of  Guatemala. 
and  the  Codex  Chimalpopoca  in  the  Nahuatl  of 
Mexico,  we  have  three  aboriginal  works  of  some  ia^- 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


425 


I 


portance,  in  connection  with  this  portion  of  America. 
As  to  the  more  southern  jjortion  at'  the  New  Worldj 
we  may  here  say  a  few  words. 

In  1838,  Tschudi  visited  South  America,  and  in 
his  "^ Travels  in  Peru'  we  find  specimens  of  Quechua 
music  and  poetry,  the  latter  translated  into  Enghsh. 
In  his  work  oft  the  fine  Quichua  language,  the  whole 
of  a  most  interesting  drama,  called  "  OUacta,  or  the 
Severity  of  a  Father  and  the  Genero&ity  of  a  King," 
is  given.  The  first  act  is  laid  at  the  close  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  the  other  two  cover  the  first  ten 
or  twelve  years  of  the  fifteenth  century.  The  hero 
is  the  celebrated  chief  OUanta,  whose  name  is  still 
preserved  in  a  bridge,  a  fortress,  and  a  palace.  His 
love  for  Cusi  Coylur  (Joyful  Star),  daughter  of  the 
Inca  Fachacutec,  the  harshness  of  this  monarch  to- 
wards his  child,  her  iinpriGunmeiU,  the  rebellion  of 
OUanta,  with  its  success  at  first,  his  final  ruin  and  sub- 
jection,  and  the  generosity  of  the  Inca  towards  Oltanta^ 
form  the  subject  of  the  drama,  Mr.  Markhaiii,  in  his 
recent  work,  '  Cuzco  and  Lima,'  gives  a  considerable 
portion  of  the  play  in  English.^ 

The  Peruvian  Amautas,  or  learned  men,  composed 
dramas  and  festive  songs.  The  Harivicus  (inventors) 
composed  the  Haravis.  or  elegiac  songs,  an  interesting 
part  of  Quichua  poetry  ;  the  subject  is  usually  unhappy 
love,  and  "it  is  hard  to  say  which  most  to  adn:iire  in 
them^,  the  harmonious  meciianicai  composition,  or  the 
[expression  of  the  etfects  of  despairing-,  overwhelming 
;rief."  Vife  may  observe  that  there  is  nothing  of  this 
character  in  the  '  Popol  Vuh.' 

Last  year,  in  the  fourth  and  concluding  volume  of 

'  See  note  at  ?nc!  pf  I'ajier. 


426 


WATIONAL    HISTORY 


I 


Helps's  '  Spanish  Conquest  in  America,'  we  were  fa- 
voured witli  a  brief  account  of  Dr,  Sclierzer's  piiblica- 
tion  of  Ximenes'  Spanish  MSS.,  from  the  Qiiiche,  from 
which  we  transcribe  a  portion. 

Ill  the  Quichean  cosmogony,  creation  is  gradual  and 
tentative.  At  tirst^  birds  and  beasts  are  created  by  the 
formative  gods.  These  creatures  are  bidden  to  speak 
out  and  praise  their  makers  i  but  they  could  only  scream, 
cry,  and  chatter.  Then  the  formative  gods  created 
nien  out  of  wood,  but  they  proceeded  from  their  makers' 
hands  without  hearts  aikd  without  understanding,  and 
they  could  not  praise  their  makers.  The  Heart  ot 
Heaven  was  consulted,  and  a  great  deluge  came  upon 
them.  The  monkey  remains  as  a  sign  of  the  kind  of 
man  that  was  made  of  wood. 

There  were  two  personages  born  in  the  obscurity  of 
night,  before  there  was  any  sun  or  moon  ;  they  made 
a  descent  into  a  hell.  They  came  to  four  roads,  one 
red,  one  black,  one  white,  and  one  yellow;  and  tbe 
black  road  tells  them  it  is  the  way  to  "  the  Lords  of 
IlelL"  They  pursue  this  way,  and  arrive  before  tbe 
thrones  of  these  lords. 

In  this  abode  of  hell  there  are  many  places  of  tor 
meat ;  the  house  of  utter  darkness,  the  house  of  cold, 
the  houseof  jaguars,  the  house  of  bats,  and  the  Louse 
of  sharp  knives.  These  two  youths  are  conquered  in 
hell,  and  put  to  death.  Tbea  there  is  a  miraculoug 
conception.  Under  a  tree,  where  the  skull  of  one  of 
these  youths  had  been  placed,  a  virgin  conceives,  and 
afterwards  gives  birth  to  two  children,  who  also  enter 
the  infernal  region  j  but  they  are  victorious  over  all 
its  terrors. 

Eventually  man  is  created,  but  this  time  not  of  wood, 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


427 


but  of  yellow  corn.  Four  men  are  created:  Balam- 
Quitze,  who  invented  human  sacrifices  ;  Balatn-Acab, 
Mahucutah,  and  Yqui-Balam ;  and  these  could  see  to 
the  four  cornicrs  of  earth  and  heaven.  This  extent  of 
visioQ  did  not  please  the  formative  gods ;  and  a  film 
was  brought  over  the  eyes  of  these  four  men  by  the 
Heart  of  Heaven,  and  they  could  only  see  that  which 
was  near  to  them.  Four  wive*  were  given  themj  and 
their  issue  became  a  great  people. 

We  are  obliged  to  Mr.  Helps,  for  giving  us  in  his 
third  volume  the  best  existing  resume  of  the  ancient 
history  of  Guatemala,  which  it  must  have  been  no  easy 
matter  to  compile. 

We  now  come  to  the  commentary  on  the  '  Popol 
Vuh/  comprising  no  less  than  two  hundred  and  seventy- 
nine  pages.  Here  the  Abbe's  love  for  generalization  is 
carried  to  extremes;  indeed,  his  opinions  and  views 
have  to  be  followed  with  very  great  care,  particularly 
as  to  the  periods  of  the  migrations  of  the  nations  of 
Red  Men  from  the  north  to  the  south  ;  and  this  is 
especially  the  case  m  his  comparisons  of  certain  iso- 
lated words  in  the  respective  languages,  by  which  he 
strives  to  show  rather  recent  connection  one  with  an- 
other;, a  point  in  which  we  do  not  agree  with  him. 
Thus  the  word  '  Ahpu/  at  page  Ixxxvi.  of  the  com- 
mentary, may  mean  in  the  Quiche,  *  conqueror;'  since 
in  the  Qnichua  of  the  Incas  of  Peru,  '  Apo'  and  '  Apu* 
mean  lord  or  master. 

At  page  clxxxiii.  begins  a  long  chapter  relative  to 
the  Caribs,  with  the  statement  that  they  came  origi- 
nally from  the  NahuatI  nation  of  Mexico;  but  there  is 
little  or  nothing  offered  to  prove  this,  either  by  the 
languages  spoken  in  the  Antilles,  or  by  any  remains 


428 


NATIONAL    HISrOKY 


of  monuments ;  for  few  or  no  stone  monuments  were 
found  among  the  Caribs  or  the  other  Indiaas  of  the 
islands. 

The  Abbu  adds  that  these  Nfihuatls  peopled  Central 
America,  traversed  the  Isthmus  of  Darien,  and  gra- 
dually overran  the  whole  of  South  America,  even  to 
Tierra  del  Fuego. 

We  do  not  deny  the  possibility  that  the  route  of  the 
migration  of  the  Red  Man  was  from  north  to  south, 
but  as  yet,  the  period  or  periods  are  not  known.  We 
have  still  to  be  satisfied  whether  the  Red  Man  of  AniC' 
nca  had  an  early  orij^in  in  Mongolia,  or  whether  he 
belongs  to  a  separately-created  race  of  his  own. 

Cuvier  and  Blumenbach  gtve  five  distinct  racef, 
Prichard  seven,  some  modern  ethnologists  as  many  as 
forty.  We  have  looked  somewhat  into  these  matters, 
but  prefer  leaving  the  number  of  races  of  men  un- 
defined. 

Having  peopled  New  Granada  with  the  Carib  family, 
chapter  xiii.  is  devoted  to  the  origin  of  the  people  of 
Peru ;  and  here  the  Abbe  unfortunately  follows,  and 
that  implicitly,  the  very  unsafe  guide  Montesinos,  who 
boldly  begins  peopling  Peru  five  hundred  years  after 
the  Noachian  Dtluge,  and  gives  one  hundred  and  one 
monarchs  of  Peru,  from  Pishua-Manca,  the  first(l),  lo 
Atahualpa,  the  last. 

The  Abb^  states  that  the  meaning  of  *  Chimu*  (of  the 
country  of  Trujillo  in  Peru)  is  giant(?) ;  that  they  went 
from  the  coast  to  the  interior  as  a  conquering  race(?).  la 
this  same  doubtful  category,  very  much  may  be  placed 
as  to  his  ideas  of  the  coiinection  of  ancient  Mexican 
civihzation  with  those  of  the  pre-Chibchas  and  Chib- 
chas  of  Bogota ;  of  the  Caras  of  the  coastj  who  cod- 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


439 


quered  the  Quitu  nation  ;  of  the  pre-Incarial,  Incarial, 
and  other  Peruvian  nations:  for  we  may  observe  that 
their  respective  forms  of  ci^^ilization  appear  to  have 
been  peculiar  to  themselves. 

We  know  nothing  as  to  the  real  origin  of  the  Caras, 
but  they  may  have  come  from  one  of  the  coast  na- 
tions of  Peru,  if  some  similarity  in  religious  views,  lan- 
guage, and  other  characteristics  have  any  weight.  It 
is  very  bold  to  suppose  that  the  term  '  Cara'  has  any 
connection  with  Karina,  KaUna,  or  Kalinago ;  the 
Galibes  of  the  French,  or  the  Caraibes  of  the  Spa- 
niards. Spanish  authors  say,  that  they  only  called 
themselves  Caribes  when  they  were  drunk  or  infuriated 
In  war. 

They  however  denominated  themselves,  those  of 
the    islands,  Oubao-bouoa;    those    of    the  mainland, 

_  Balove-bonon. 

f  The  Peruvian  Quichua  word  for  Indian  corn  is  Cara ; 
but  it  would  be  a  great  stretch  of  the  philological 
imagination,  to  suppose  that  the  Caras  of  the  coast 
of  Peru  were  so  called  because  they  were  agricultural 
people  and  grew  maize. 

I  will  now  give  some  extracts  from  the  *Popo!Vuh,* 
with  a  sample  of  the  Quiche  language. ^  Popol  Vuh 
means  the  National  Book.  Hupah  Chi  Vuh,  Fiist 
Fart.  Nabebibal,  Introduction.  Are  u  xe  oker  Izih 
varal  Quiche  u  hi,  Here  then  is  the  origin  of  the  an- 
cient history  of  the  country  of  Quiche. 

"  Here  we  show  the  dawn  of  that  which  was  in  obscurity, 
the  work  of  the  Former,  of  the  Creator,  of  him  who  gives 
being,  and  whose  names  are,  the  bluwer  of  the  tube  at  the 
opossum    (Hun-apu),  the  jackal^  the  serpent  covered  with 

*  Qui.  many  ;  cAe,  tree  ;  many  trees,  or  a  wooded  land. 


430 


NATIONAL    HISTORY 


r 


I 


feathers  (Tepeu,  Gucuinata),  the  heart  of  the  aea,  the 
master  of  the  green  planisphere,  of  the  azure  surface.  They 
are  sung  of  and  celebrated. 

"At  first,  all  was  in  suspense,  calm^  silent,  and  iramoTable, 
and  empty  was  the  immensity  of  heaven. 

**The  face  of  the  earth  did  not  exist:  the  tranquil  seawms 
there,  and  the  heaven's  space  above- 

**Tben  only  existed  the  Creator,  tlie  Former,  the  Donii- 
nator,  the  serpent  covered  with  feathers,  those  only  whu 
gave  life  ;  they  were  over  the  waters  like  a  glowing  splendour. 

■"And  they  spoke,  and  whilst  they  did  so,  it  became  light, 
man  was  raanifested ;  trees  and  plants  grew, 

"Then  was  Gucuraatz  filled  with  joy,  and  he  said,  *  All  this  ia 
well,  O  heart  of  heaven,  O  hurncaue,  O  ray  of  lightning  and 
noise  of  thunder.' 

"  Then  animals  and  birds  were  created,  but  the  power  of 
braying  and  warbling  was  only  given  to  tlieoi. 

"  The  first  men  were  made  of  clay,  but  they  had  no  intelli- 
gence, and  they  were  washed  away." 

Now  a  little  magic  is  brought  upon  the  scene  : — 

"  Then  the  Creator  saidj '  Make  thy  passes  over  the  maJie 
and  the  tzite  (red  beans),  and  let  us  sculpture  man  of  wood.' 
^  Sun  and  Creature,^  said  an  old  man  and  woman;  the  old 
man  was  the  master  of  the  tzite,  named  Xpuyacos;  the  old 
woman  was  a  witch,  the  Formathce,  her  name  was  Chira- 
kan  Xmucane. 

"  Men  and  women  were  made  of  wood,  they  reasoned  some- 
what; these  were  the  6rst  people  who  inhabited  earth, 
and  they  multiplied,  but  they  had  no  heartSj  intelligence, 
oc  knowledge  of  their  Creator.  They  died  by  the  waten 
rising,  and  they  were  drowned-  The  face  of  earth  was  ob- 
scured, and  there  was  a  dark  rain," 

It  is  said  that  the  posterity  of  these  men  are  seen  in 
those  little  monkeys  who  now  live  in  the  woods. 

"  Then  there  was  but  little  light  on  eartli,  but  there  was  one 
proud  man  on  it,  Vukub-Cakex  (seven  parrotsj.     The  faces 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


431 


i 


of  the  sun  and  moon  were  veiled.  Vukub  aaid,  '  I  will  be 
great  again  over  the  beinga  I  created.  I  am  their  Bun^  I  am 
their  moon ;  for  of  silver  is  the  globe  of  my  eyes^  they  are 
resplendent  with  precious  stones,  and  my  teeth  shine  in.  their 
enamel  like  the  face  of  heaven.  My  nostrils  shine  like  the 
moon,  and  of  silver  is  my  throne.' 

"  But  it  was  not  he  who  was  the  sun ;  but  his  pride  caused 
him  to  speak  thus." 

Two  youths,  Hunahpu  and  Xbalanque, — the  first  is 
one  of  the  blowers  of  the  pipe ;  the  other  means  *  little 
jaguar,' — come  on  the  scene: — 

These  two  were  Gods,  and  they  saw  the  evil  of  the  proud 
Vukub.  They  said,  'We  will  ahoot  or  blow  through  our  pipe 
(Sabacane)  poison,  at  his  food,  so  that  he  may  die.'  His  wife 
was  Chiraalmat, 

L  '^Vukub  had  two  sons,  Zipacna  and  Cabrakan  ;  the  occu- 
pation of  the  first  was  to  roll  great  mountains  about ;  the 
other  moved  mountains  by  his  mere  will.  They  were  wicked 
and  proud  also. 

I      "  Aa  yet  the  first  parents  of  us  Quiches  were  not  created." 

Here  follows  rather  a  long  account  of  the  way  Vn- 
kub  was  killed  by  the  two  youths. 

Zipacna,  one  of  his  sons,  was  bathing,  when  four 
hundred  young  people,  much  fatigued,  came  along  with 
a  large  tree;  it  was  for  a  beam  for  their  habitation. 
Zipacna  carried  it  for  them  i  but  the  four  hundred 
held  couDciUand  said  it  was  not  well  to  have  so  power- 
ful a  man  amongst  them,  and  they  prepared  to  get  rid 
of  him. 

KAnd  after  they  thought  they  had  buried  him  alive, 
hey  began  to  drink  even  to  drunkenness.  But  Zipacna 
appeared  and  tumbled  Ibeir  habitation  about  them, 
and  they  were  destroyed,  and  it  is  said  that  these  may 
form  the  group  of  the  Pleiades  ! 


433 


NATIONAL    IJISTOIIY 


The  two  young  people  grieved  over  the  death  of  the 

four  hundred,  they  laid  a  snare  forZipacna,  and  caused 
a  rock  to  fall  on  and  kill  him,  by  their  magical  power; 
and  his  brother,  they  poisoned  him  with  white  powder. 
The  ahove  two  young  people  became  otd  ;  they  had 
two  sous,  Hunbatz  and  Hunchoen. 

They  (the  four)  were  good  and  wise,  and  they  were 
wizards.  They  played  ontheflutCj  sang,  painted,  were 
Bculptors,  and  workers  in  gold  and  jewels.  And  these 
four  were  passionately  fond  of  playing  at  the  ball  game 
in  their  great  hall.° 

Voc  or  Vac  (the  hawk),  the  manager  of  Hurricane, 
came  to  see  them  play.  The  (city)  of  Voc  was  not 
far  from  this,  neither  was  it  distant  from  Xibalba  (a 
powerful  empire  before  the  first  Toltecs).  Then  Voc 
mounted  to  Hurricane,  who  was  in  heaven. 

Among  the  ruiins  of  Chichen-Itza  in  this  region 
"the  ring  of  the  game  of  ball"  is  alluded  to,  wbicb 
among  the  Indians  of  North  America  is  of  a  very  old 
date. 

It  was  indeed  a  favourite  pastime  in  Peru  under  tlie 
Incas  ;  and  also  among  the  Araucanos  of  Chile. 

Without  going  into  the  subject  of  the  popular  games, 
it  is  fair  to  presume  that  every  country  had,  at  soniie 
time  or  other,  its  game  at  ball.  Thus,  in  England  we 
have  tennis,  cricket,  hockey ;  in  Scotland,  goff  and 
curling ;  in  France,  tennis  ;  in  Spain,  the  beloved  pe- 
lota,  particularly  in  the  Basque  provinces. 

*  We  are  told  hj  the  Ahh4  that  the  game  at  hall  was  symboliciJ  d 
the  wars  of  the  Nahiiaa  (ancient  Meticaiis)  against  the  empire  nf 
Xihalba;  but  in  tlie  '  Popol  Viih'  it  is  bceq  to  hare  been  played  is 
the  Qvii(.hc  Innd  before  these  vrnTs,  and  if  symbolical  of  war,  miai 
have  been  of  wars  of  an  earlier  date. 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


438 


I 
I 
I 

I 
I 


I 


After  a  time,  IIunhun-Ahpu  and  Vukub-IIunapu 
played  their  games  at  ball  in  the  direction  of  Xibalba, 
which  was  soon  known  to  the  kings  there,  Hun-Cam^ 
(one  death)  and  Vukub-Camd  (seven  deaths).  And 
these  kinsrs  said  :  "  What  is  this  that  is  done  on  earth  ? 
Who  are  these  that  excite  tumult?  Seek  and  bring 
them  hither.  Tliey  wish  to  play  the  game  at  ball  and 
conquer  us." 

It  would  appear  that  this  empire  of  Xibalba  had 
more  to  do  with  the  lower  regions  than  with  earth. 
There  were  ministers  there  who  caused  bodies  to  swell 
and  have  humours  ;  others  took  the  shin-bones  away 
from  men,  using  such  bones  as  their  maces;  othera 
caused  men  to  die  suddenly.  These  ministers  held 
council  as  to  the  punishment  of  the  two  ball-players, 
and  took  from  them  their  hide  bucklers,  rings^  balls  of 
gum-elastic,  gloves,  crowns,  and  helmets. 

When  they  (the  players)  went  on  this  journey  to 
Xibalba,  they  left  their  sons  Hunbatz  and  Chouen  be- 
hind. 

And  messengers  came  to  invite  the  two-  players  to 
go  to  Xibalba  to  play.  (The  messengers  were  owls,  or 
their  names  were  Owls.) 

Then  the  ball-players  said, ' '  We  will  take  leave  of  our 
mother,  ere  we  go."  They  told  their  mother  that  they 
would  leave  behind  a  gum-elastic  ball  suspended  from 
the  roof  of  their  habitation. 

So  they  went  towards  Xibalba,  when  on  descending 
the  route  they  came  to  a  rapid  river  of  blood,  then  to 
one  of  water,  then  to  four  roads,  one  red,  one  black, 
one  white,  and  the  other  yellow.  And  the  black  road 
persuaded  them  to  go  by  it,  and  they  were  deceived,  for 
they  were  being  directed  to  Xibalba,  or  Hell. 

262 


^34 


NATIONAL    HISTORY 


First,  they  saw  figures  of  osier  and  of  wood,  and  they 
said,  "  VVe  salute  ye,  Vukub-Cameand  Hun-Came,  but 
the  fij^area  returned  no  answer.  Then  the  kings  and 
princes  shouted  with  joy,  seeing  that  they  had  caught 
their  victims  ;  and  they  said,  "  Go  to  your  habitations, 
and  a  stick  of  pitch-pine  (to  serve  as  a  light)  and  a  Zig, 
or  cigar,  is  given  to  you.'*" 

When  they  arrived  at  their  gloomy  abode,  those  of 
Xibalba  said,  *'  Let  us  sacrifice  them  on  the  morrow." 

Their  sphnler  of  resinous  wood  was  an  arrow,  which, 
as  well  as  the  cigar,  they  were  not  to  use. 

The  ball-playera  were  first  put  into  a  dark  chamber; 
then  into  another,  a  frozen  one;  the  third  was  that  of 
the  jaguars,  the  fourth,  that  of  the  bats,  the  ^fth,  thaC 
of  the  warriors,  and  so  on  up  to  nine.  They  are  then 
brought  into  the  presence  of  the  two  kings,  who  de- 
mand the  pine-torches  and  cigars. 

"We  have  used  them,"  they  said.  The  kings  re- 
plied, "  Then  you  must  die,  and  your  breasts  cut  open." 
So  they  were  sacrificed  and  burned,  the  head  of  Huci- 
hun-Ahpu  was  cut  off,  and  deposited  in  a  tree.  Wlien 
the  head  was  so  placed,  the  tree  became  instantly 
covered  with  fruit  of  the  calabash,  which  we  still  call 
the  head  of  Hunhun-Ahpu. 

And  the  head  became  a  calabash  ;  which  circum- 
stance was  told  to  a  young  girl,  the  daughter  of  a 
prince ;  her  name  was  Xquig ;  and  she  said,  *'  Why 
should  I  not  go  and  see  this  tree?"  And  she  'wenl» 
and  said,  "  There  is  the  fruit,  is  it  not  beautiful?  If 
I  take  it,  shall  I  die  ?  " 

•  Z\g,  or  Cig,  is  tobacco,  cigar,  or  pipe.  Zig  ii  a  perfume,  voic*. 
lamentation.  Evidently  ihe  origin  of  the  '  cigaro"  of  the  Spaniard^ 
and  our '  cigar." 


OF    GUATEMALA. 


435 


I 


I 


Here  conjuration  takes  place,  and  (he  dead  head 
spits  in  her  hand,  saying,  '*  This  saliva  is  ray  posterity, 
which  I  give  to  thee.  Now  will  my  head  cease  to 
speak."  So  after  a  time  she  brought  forth  Hunahpu 
and  Xbalanqu€. 

She  goes  to  the  mother  of  Hunhun-Ahpu,  who  will 
not  receive  her;  she  then  goes  to  her  sons  Hunbatz 
and  Huuchoer^;  these  last  two  are  jealous  of  the 
twins,  and  wished  them  dead,  for  they  were  their  rivals 
(in  the  arts).  The  twin  brothers  have  the  power  of 
magic,  and  turn  their  elder  relations  into  monkeys. 

Then  Hunahpu  and  Xbalanque  began  to  work  the 
land  with  hatchets,  spades,  and  ploughs.  ...  A 
magic  rat  informs  them,  that  gum-elastic  balls,  rings, 
giove8^  and  shields  of  hide  are  hung  up  in  the  house 
their  father  lived  in,  and  it  gnaws  the  string  by  which 
these  things  were  suspended,  and  they  become  the 
possessors. 

Then  they  began  to  play  at  ball,  and  were  happy. 
When  the  kings  of  Xibalba  heard  of  it,  they  said,  "Who 
are  these  that  disturb  the  world?"  And  the  kings  sent 
to  invite  them  to  play  with  them  in  Xibalba. 

And  the  messengers  came  to  the  grandmother,  and 
she  said,  **Whom  shall  I  send  to  the  j'Omig  men?" 
Then  a  louse  fell  on  her  dress,  which  she  put  into  her 
hand,  saying,  "  My  nephew,  will  you  go  and  call  my 
grandchildren  from  their  ball-play?" 

The  louse  went,  and  on  the  road  fell  in  with  a  toad, 
who  said,  "You  do  nut  go  quick  enougli,  jump  down  my 
throat,  lean  go  quicker."  The  toad  met  a  serpent, 
who  said  the  same  to  it,  and  (he  toad  leaped  into  the 
month  of  the  serpent.  The  serpent  met  Vac,  a  great 
hawk,  who  swallowed  the  serpent.     Vac  soon  found 


436 


NATIONAL    BISTORT 


aQd  hovered  over  the  place  where  the  brothers  were 
playing,  and  perched  itself  on  the  ball-play  court,  aod 
began  to  cry,  "Vaccol  Vacco!"  One  of  the  youD^ 
men,  with  his  blow-pipe,  sent  a  pellet  into  the  eye  of 
the  hawk,  when  it  fell  at  their  feet.  Vac  cried  out, 
"  The  message  for  you  is  within  me."  ThenVac  brought 
up  the  serpent,  the  serpent  the  toad,  and  in  the 
gums  of  the  toad  there  was  the  louse,  who  gave  the 


message. 


The  young  men  returned  to  their  grandmother,  and 
said  they  would  go  to  Xibalba.  And  each  planted  a 
cane  in  the  centre  of  the  house,  telling  her  that  if  the 
canes  withered  it  would  be  the  sign  of  their  death. 

Then  Hunahpu  and  Xbalanqu^  went  to  Xibalba,  and 
were  told  to  worship  the  kings.  They  replied,  that 
what  tliey  saw  were  only  statues  of  wood. 

They  went  through  about  the  same  ordeal  as  their 
fathers,  but  were  not  caught.  They  wish  to  stake  a  Chil 
(a  lot  of  capsicums)  on  a  game  at  ball,  those  of  Xibalba 
wish  to  play  for  the  head  of  a  puma,  which  is  agreed  to ; 
but  the  young  men  won  the  game.  Some  curious  con- 
juration is  gone  through,  when  the  youths  are  burnt  to 
ashes,  which,  on  being  thrown  into  the  river,  turn  into 
two  fine  young  men,  who  on  tlie  fifth  day  take  on  the 
form  of  two  old  men,  performing  all  sorts  of  strange 
things,  particularly  that  of  burning  houses,  even  to 
killing  one  another,  but  this  in  appearance  only. 

**  Then  said  the  kings,  '  Kill  us  and  bring  us  to 
life  again.'  The  first  part  they  did,  but  the  kings  did 
not  come  to  life.  Then  princes  were  sacrificed,  but  one 
humiliated  himself,  saying,  '  Have  pity  on  me.'  And 
the  people  came  and  prostrated  themselves  before 
Hunahpu  and   Xbalanque.  .  .  .  Then  they  saw  the 


OP    GDATEMALA, 


437 


I 

r 
I 


I 


faces  of  their  fathers.     Now  one  father  -went  to  the 
6un,  the  other  to  the  moon. 

"Then  Gucumatz  spoke,  saying,  'The  dawn  is  near, 
the  work  is  done,  the  nourisher  of  the  altar,  the  son 
of  light,  of  civilization,  Man,  is  to  be  honoured,'  But 
the  6ua,  naoon,  and  stars  did  not  shine  above  the 
Creator. 

'■'  The  fijst  man  was  Balam-Quitze  (the  ja^ar  of  the 
sweet  smile)  J  the  second,  Balam-Agab  (the  jaguar  of 
the  night) ;  the  third,  Mahucutah  (a  great  name) ;  the 
fourth,  Iqui-Balara  fjaguar  of  the  moon).  They  were 
fashioned  and  formed  by  enchantment;  they  had  no 
parents.  Then  three  beautiful  w^omen  were  made. 
These  had  children,  and  were  the  origin  of  the  Quichd 
nation.  .  .  .  They  aU  hved  a  life  of  joy,  the  black 
people  (rather  eay  a  darker  shade  of  red  or  brown) 
as  well  as  the  white.  There  was  only  one  language, 
and  when  they  saw  the  sun  rise,  they  said,  'We  sa- 
lute thee,  O  Creator!  Do  not  abandon  us,  O  heart  of 
heaven,  O  heart  of  earth.  Give  us  posterity.  Let  us 
walk  in  the  good  roads,  and  be  at  peace.' 

"As  yet  there  were  no  sculptured  stones.  .  .  .  The 
Yaqui  nation  were  the  sacrificers.  Let  us  go  seek 
whereto  guard  our  symbols.  And  they  went  to  Tulara- 
Zuivato  recover  the  Gods,  among  whom  was  Tohil^ — 
we  know  their  princes  (that  is  to  say,  their  deEcendants)^ 
— twenty  years  after  the  conquest  by  the  Spaniards. 

"From  Tulan  came  the  practice  of  fasting  and 
watching  for  the  rising  of  the  sun  and  the  morning 
star." 

We  have  now  a  period  when  some  of  these  princes 
became  sacrificers.  Strange  conjurations  succeed. 
Mention  is  made  of  some  of  their  brothers  who  had 


438 


NATIONAL    HISTORY 


r 


r 


been  left  in  Mexico,  also  aootber  portion  of  their  race 
lived  to  the  east  ofthera,  at  Tepen  and  Oliraan.  .  .  . 
These  sacrificers  or  priests  instigate  wars  and  become 
conquerors.  Three  of  them,  Balam,  Mahucutah,  aod 
Iqui-Balam,  when  ahout  to  die,  say,  "We  return  to 
our  people,  the  King  of  the  Deer  wants  us  above.  .  .  . 
Increase  and  multiply, — go  and  see  the  land  we  came 
from."  Balam-Quitze  said  he  would  leave  them  some- 
thing which  would  make  them  powerful ;  it  was,  "  the 
hidden  Majesty,"  folded  in  a  (mantle),  and  they  were 
not  to  open  it.  The  families  of  the  chiefs  multipUed> 
and  the  people  were  made  to  ohey. 

Then  the  sons  of  the  sacrificers  went  to  the  east  to  re- 
ceive royalty  from  the  great  monarch  Naxit, — amongst 
other  things,  the  art  of  painting  and  writing  (figura- 
tive),— and  they  returned  to  Mount  Hacaritz,  and 
built  Izraachi,  of  stone  and  lime. 

Civil  wars  now  present  themselves,  wlieo  the  Quiches 
and  others  leave  Izmachi  and  go  to  Guamarcaah 
(Guatemala),  so  called  by  the  Quich^^s.  This  was  tlie 
period  of  the  fifth  generation  of  tlie  Quiche  nation. 
They  build  their  habitations,  and  the  temple  to  their 
god,  on  an  elevation  (ruins  of  which  are  &aid  to  be  stilt 
in  existence).  In  consequence  of  quarrelling  about 
the  sale  of  their  daughters  and  sisters  (for  marriage),  a 
war  ensues,  when  they  throw  the  bones  and  skulls  of 
tlie  dead  at  each  other. 

They  now  divide  into  nine  great  branches,  and  the 
royalty  among  twenty-four  great  houses  in  Guatemala. 
Then  follows  a  long  list  of  Quiche  kings  ;  of  one  Gu- 
cumatz,  he  ascended  to  heaven  every  seven  days  !  A 
revolution  takes  place;  the  people  upset  royalty, and 
forty  rulers  take  the  place  of  one  king.     There  are 


OF    GUATSMALA^ 


439 


I 


interesting  descriptions  of  the  temples  of  Tohil  and 
Tzutuha  (the  flowing  fountain). 

And  it  was  known  then,  where  the  "  National  Book," 
was  to  be  found.  Koyalty  again  came  into  fashion, 
the  house  of  Cavek  reigning  when  Alvarado  conquered 
Guatemala,  it  having  had  thirteen  generations,  winding 
up  with  two  QuickC  princes,  who  took  the  names  of 
Don  Juan  Rojas  and  Don  Juaa  Cortez. 

Although  1  have  diftered  very  much  in  opinion  from 
the  learned  Abb^  In  regard  to  very  many  of  his  con- 
clusians,  particularly  as  to  the  period  of  the  migrations 
of  the  red  race  and  their  doings,  I  cannot  close  these 
observations  without  sincerely  thanking  him  for  the 
labour  and  research  he  must  have  had  in  translating  the 
'  Popol  Vuh,'  and  thus  giving  to  the  world  the  oppor- 
tunity of  judging  of  this  curious  contribution  of  the 
aboriginal  literature  of  the  New  World, 

Tt  has  already  been  stated,  in  a  note  to  page  3,  that 
a  Quiche  grammar  has  been  published  by  the  Abbe; 
in  the  same  volume  is  *'  Rabinal  Achi,  ou  le  [tragic] 
Drame-Ballet  du  Tun,"  in  three  lengthy  scenes.  The 
following  are  the  names  of  the  personnageg : — 

Ahau-llobtoh,  king  of  the  Rabinallens. 

Rabinai-Achi,  son  of  the  king. 

Cavek-Queche-Achi  (who  is  sacrificed),  prince  of 
the  Yaquis  of  Cunen  and  Chahul,  son  of  Balam-Achi, 
King  of  the  Quiches. 

The  Queen,  wife  of  King  Hobtoh. 

The  Mother  of  the  Green  Plumes,  the  Precious 
Emerald^  wife  of  RabinaUAchi. 

The  twelve  Eagles  and  Jaguars,  or  Rabinal  warriors, 

A  Slave, 

Ixok-mun,  favourite  slave  of  Rabiaal-Acbi. 


440  NATIONAL    HISTORY    OF    GUATEMALA. 

And  a  great  number  of  warriors  and  slaves  of  both 
sexes,  who  take  part  in  the  dance  of  Xahoh'-Tun^. 

'  Xahoh,  from  Xab,  b.  the  heel  of  the  foot.     The  verb  to  dance, 
and  Xahoh,  8.  a  dance  (a  ballet  with  sceaes). 
'  Tim,  B.  Binging  to  mnaic. 


NOTE. 

Mr.  Markham,  in  Ms  'Travels  in  Peru  and  India/  1862, 
mentions  that  a  Dr.  Valdez  was  the  author  of  *  OUanta,' 
although  it  cont^ns  several  ancient  songs  and  speeches, 
founded  on  old  traditions.  Dr.  Valdez  was  the  Cura  of 
Sicuani}  and  a  perfect  master  of  the  Quichna  language.  It 
is  generally  agreed  that  the  rebellion  of  the  chief  Ollantt 
arose  from  the  abduction  of  an  Aclla,  or  Virgin  of  the  Sud, 
from  her  convent.  The  play  was  frequently  performed  before 
the  martyred  Inca  Tupac  Amaru,  at  Tungasuca ;  who,  on  the 
18th  of  May,  l781j  ^fi^r  beholding  the  execution  of  his  wife, 
his  son,  his  uncle,  his  brother-in-law,  and  many  of  his  cap- 
tains, was  taken  into  the  centre  of  the  plaza  of  Cuzco,  his 
chuns  were  knocked  off,  and  his  tongue  was  cut  out.  He 
was  then  thrown  on  the  ground ;  lassos,  secured  to  the  ^rtbs 
of  four  horses,  were  fastened  to  his  wrists  and  ankles,  and 
the  horses  made  to  drag  different  ways,  thus  tearing  the  last 
of  the  Incas  to  pieces  1 


441 


XVl.-ON  THE  RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CARTHAGE. 


CONODCTEO    BT    NATBAN    DAVIS^    ESQ.,    AND    M.    BBUI.£. 


(ReadJaly.  1658;  April.  1859.) 


The  following  paper  is  the  substance  of  two  papers 
which  I  communicated  to  this  Society  in  July,  1858, 
and  April,  1859,  and  contains  a  brief  notice  of  the 
tnore  important  monuments  procured  through  the  zeal 
and  energy  of  Mr.  Davis,  and  now  deposited  in  the 
British  Museum,  with  a  brief  notice  of  the  rival  re- 
searches of  M.  Beule  on  nearly  the  same  ground.^ 

But  before  I  proceed  to  describe  the  results  of  Mr, 
Davis's  labours,  I  think  1  ought  to  say  a  few  words 
with  regard  to  the  discoverer  himself;  the  more  bo,  as 
what  he  has  been  able  to  procure  has  been  secured  for 
the  nation  entirely  through  his  own  individual  labours, 
and  with  scarcely  any  extraneous  assistance. 

Mr.  Nathan  Davis,  to  whom  both  the  first  proposal 
to  make  excavations  on  the  presumed  site  of  Carthage, 

^  I  ought  to  EbCDtLfiti,  that  i'm(x  these  papers  were  read,  a.  very  able 
paper,  "On  recent  Excavatioua  and  Discoveries  at  Carthage,"  hu 
been  communicated  to  the  SocicCy  of  Antiquaries  by  my  colleagiie, 
Wr.  A.  W.  Franks,  Director  S.A..  and  is  ])rmCed  in  the  '  Archteo- 
logift,'  vol.  xxxviii.  1S60.  la  this  peper  ore  cxcelleat  drawingis  of 
vume  uf  tbe  beat  moeuc*. 


44-J 


RECENT   EXCAVATIONS    AT    CAHTUaGE. 


and  the  subsequent  success  attained,  are  wholly  due, 
is  an  English  gentleman  who  lias  resided  during 
many  years  in  the  Pashalic  of  Tunis,  and  who  has 
been  for  a  long  time  the  intimate  friend  of  the  Bey  or 
Governor  of  that  province  of  the  Turkish  Empire, — 
a  prince  wlio,  hy  his  friendship  for  Europeans,  and 
especially  for  the  English,  and  by  his  ready  adoption 
of  many  of  the  wiser  customs  of  the  West,  was  ex- 
actly the  person  who  would  naturally  be  most  ready 
to  assist  Mr.  Davis  in  his  proposed  inquiries. 

The  consequeijce  of  this  mutual  friendship  has  been, 
that  when,  some  years  since,  Mr.  Davis  proposed  to  un- 
dertake a  complete  investigation  of  lliese  localities,  he 
met  with  cordial  enconragement  from  the  existing  Go- 
vernment ;  a  support  the  more  valuable  as  he  had, !  re- 
gret to  say,  to  contend  with  worse  difficulties  than  might 
have  simply  arisen  from  the  prejudices  of  the  native 
population.  Of  these  the  most  annoying  to  him  were 
the  illwill  and  jealousy  of  the  French,  who  for  soBie 
years  have  occupied  a  building  on  part  of  ancient  Car- 
thage, called  the  Chapel  of  St.  Louis.  By  the  personal 
kindness  of  the  Bey,  and  the  warm  support  he  on  all 
occasions  received  from  Lord  Clarendon^  at  that  time 
the  Principal  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Aflairs, 
Mr,  Davis  was  able,  ultimately,  to  triumph  over  all 
difficulties  :  the  large  collection  he  has  now  sent  home, 
which  is  accumulated,  without  the  power  of  proper  ex- 
hibition, in  the  vaults  of  tiie  British  Museum,  afford- 
ing an  answer  sufficiently  conclusive  to  the  question 
whether  or  not  he  has  efficiently  carried  out  the  in- 
structions he  received  from  the  Government  at  home. 
When  we  take  into  consideration  the  extensive  area 
over  which  Mr.  Davis  has  had  to  operate ;  that  he  has 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTKAGE. 


443 


had  to  work  almost  wholly  in  the  dark ;  nnd  that  no 
previous  researches  had  given  any  satisfactory  clue  as 
to  what  might  or  might  not  be  under  the  ground,  or 
had  determined  the  fittest  place  for  the  commence- 
ment of  his  excavations^  we  may  well  be  satisfied  both 
with  the  ability  of  the  labourer  and  wUh  the  results 
which  have  followed  from  his  exertions. 

As  far  as  can  be  judged  from  recent  surveys,  taken 
ID  connection  with  the  narratives  jn  ancient  authors,  it 
would  seem  that  ilie  original  city  of  Carthage  occupied 
an  irregular  lozenge-shaped  tract  of  land,  extending 
nearly  four  miles  in  length  north-west  and  south-east, 
and  from  one  to  three  miles  in  breadth  from  north  to 
eouth.  To  the  north-west  the  extreme  boundary  is 
Cape  Quamart ;  to  south-east,  the  modern  port  of  La 
Goulette.  The  whole  space  between  these  points,  in- 
cluding a  seacoast  of  between  five  and  six  miles,  is 
generally  believed  to  have  been  covered  at  different 
periods  either  by  Carthage  itself  or  by  its  suburbs. 
Over  great  parts  of  tiiis  wide  area  there  are  mounds 
of  ruin,  fragments  of  wails,  and  piles  of  shapeless,  un- 
distinguishable  masses  of  bricks  and  masonry,  none  of 
which,  in  their  present  state,  reveal  what  they  were  in 
ancient  times.  Hence  it  was  that  Mr.  Davis,  in  pre- 
paring to  excavate,  was  much  in  the  position  of  an  ad- 
venturous gold-digger,  with  good  reason  indeed  for  be- 
lieving that  precious  metal  existed  here  and  there  be- 
neath his  feet,  but  with  no  certainty  where  he  ought  to 
sink  his  shaft.  He  had,  as  a  digger  would  say,  to  "  pro- 
spect about,"'  in  order  to  determine  the  best  position  for 
his  future  operations :  while,  for  his  guidance  in  this 
selection,  he  had  little  more  than  the  vague  traditions 
that  the  French  Chapel  of  St,  Louis  occupied  the  site 


444  KECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAOB. 

of  the  celebrated  Byrsa,  the  citadel  of  ancient  Carthage; 
that  the  Arab  village  of  El  Malica  represented  the  po- 
sition of  the  ancient  Royal  Palace;  with  a  fair  pre- 
sumption that  the  Necropolis  of  the  City  extended 
along  the  Mediterranean  shore  to  the  north  of  the  ac- 
tual site  of  Carthage,  from  Cape  Quamart  CEistward 
for  more  than  two  miles.  On  the  other  hand,  it  was 
matter  of  common  observation  that  the  surface  soil 
near  the  modern  port  of  La  Goulette  had  all  the  cha- 
racter of  having  been  once  excavated,  the  conforma- 
tion of  the  small  harbours  near  it  having  already  led 
more  than  one  intelligent  traveller  to  believe  that  (he 
Port  Cothon,  described  as  the  Double  Port  by  Appian, 
had  left  traces  behind  it  sufficient  for  its  present  iden- 
tification. With  nothing,  therefore,  especially  to  guide 
him,  it  was  perhaps  fortunate  that  Mr.  Davis  com- 
meaced  his  researches  a  little  way  to  the  north  of  the 
so-called  Cothon,  and  thence  gradually  extended  his 
excavation  over  the  ground  between  La  Goulette  and 
higher  elevation  of  Cape  Carthage. 

Mr.  Davis  has  not  furnished  us  with  minute  details 
of  the  localities  where  each  object  was  disinterred,  nor 
indeed  would  it  have  been  easy  for  him  to  do  so.  I 
may,  however,  stale  generally  that  some  of  his  best 
mosaics  were  found  in  the  neighbourhood  of  an  ancient 
house  which  he  cleared  out,  and  had  perhaps  formed 
part  of  the  decoration  of  its  rooms.'  This  house  was 
buried  at  the  depth  of  about  ten  feet  below  the  present 

^  I  regret  to  say  thai  Mr.  Davi&'s  work  on  '  Carthage  and  its  R«- 
mains,'  published  more  than  a  year  subsequent  to  the  reading  of  tfais 
jiiiper,  baa  not  thrown  the  liglit  we  anticipated  on  the  coarse  of  bta 
excavations.  Although  we  haveoccaEional  notices  of  the  discoveries 
he  niBide,  the  student  will  fiad  himself,  oo  reading  it,  imfaersed  in  a 


HSCBNT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE, 


445 


I 


soil,  and  still  exhibited  on  its  walls  traces  of  fresco 
painting.  Some,  too,  of  the  walls  were  lined  with 
plain  slabs  of  marble ;  others  were  found  in  the  neigh- 
bourbood  of  what  Mr.  Davis  has  called  the  temple  of 
Chrouos  or  Saturn,  his  description  of  which  shows  that 
its  structure  must  have  been  very  peculiar,  "  It  was," 
says  he,  "a  square  edifice  on  forty-eight  pilasters,  di- 
vided into  four  courts,  arranged  ag  follows :— Outside 
were  twelve  pUasters  of  very  massive  masonry;  within 
this  was  another  court  surrounded  by  twelve  pilasters 
of  lighter  construction  ;  both  these  first  courts  were 
square.  Then  within  the  second  was  a  third,  with 
twelve  pilasters  arranged  circularly ;  and  then  again  a 
fourth  court  similarly  constructed.  At  a  depth  of 
twenty-five  feet  below  the  central  court  was  found  a 
quantity  of  mosaics  covered  with  geometrical  designs." 

Others,  again,  were  on  an  elevation  facing  the  mo- 
dern fort  on  the  presumed  site  of  the  temple  of  jiEscu- 
lapius.  On  this  spot  were  found  four  tombs  at  the 
depth  of  five  feet  below  the  present  surfacSj  and  at  nine 
feet  below  these  again  a  number  of  mosaics. 

Over  many  of  these  mosaics,  Mr.  Davis  found  great 
quantities  of  cinders  and  charcoal,  showing  clearly  by 
what  agency  the  buildings  they  once  adorned  had  been 
destroyed. 

Besides  these  more  strictly  Carthaginian  relics,  Mr. 
Davis  has  sent  home  some  fine  mosaics  and  a  few  in- 
scriptions from  the  site  of  Utica.    They  were,  I  believe, 


wondrouB  haze,  from  which  the  figures  of  Dido  and  other  early  Car- 
thaginian heroea  stand  out  with  a  proininence  estremely  imaginative, 
to  Eay  the  least.  Moreover,  he  will  not  Had  what  lie  would  probably 
most  have  dcBired,  any  connected  narrative  of  the  steps  Mr.  Davis 
fqllgwed  in  hi*  excavations. 


446 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


obtained  by  the  assistance  of  the  officers  of  H.M.S. 
Harpy,  but  I  am  not  certain  whether  Mr.  Davis  m 
person  conducted  the  excavations  made  there. 

I  will  now  proceed  to  give  some  details  relative  to 
the  objects  which  are  now  in  the  British  Museum. 

The  collection  of  ancient  monuments,  which  it  haa 
been  Mr.  Davis's  good  fortune  to  disinter  and  to  for- 
ward to  this  country,  consists  principally  of  three 
classes : — 

1.  Mosaic  pavements. 

2.  Statues  and  fragments  of  statues. 

3.  Inscribed  stones  in  the  Carthaginian  or  Phoeni- 
cian languai^e  and  character. 

As  it  would  be  impossible  for  me  to  give  a  detailed 
account  of  each  of  these  objects,  I  propose  to  select  for 
description  a  few  of  the  more  remarkable  of  each  class. 

I .  Mosaics. 

Before,  however,  I  describe  some  of  these,  it  may 
perhaps  be  "well  to  state  that  in  Rome  this  method  of 
decorating  the  floors  of  houses  appears  not  to  have 
been,  in  use  till  the  time  of  Sylla,  who,  according  to 
Pliny»  laid  down  the  first  in  a  temple  of  Fortune  which 
he  built  at  Praeneste  (Plin,  H.  N.  xxxvi.  64).  Imme- 
diately after  his  period,  however,  they  would  seem  to 
have  become  very  popular ;  and,  about  a  hundred  and 
fifty  years  later,  we  may  judge  of  their  extensive  use 
from  the  abundant  remains  discovered  at  Pompeii. 
From  these  we  learn  that  they  were  generally  formed 
of  small  pieces,  nearly  square,  of  red  and  white  marble 
and  red  tile,  united  together  by  a  very  fine  cement. 

The  mosaic  pavements  procured  by  Mr.  Davis  are 
composed  of  tessene  {for  the  most  part  marble),  varying 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


447 


from  one-third  of  an  inch  square  to  less  than  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch,  and  exhibit  white,  red.  black,  or 
dark-green,  and  brown  or  orange  colours.  With  these 
are  associated  a  large  quantity  of  tesserte,  formed  like 
the  Pompeian  pavements  of  red  tile,  some  few  objects 
(or  portions  of  them)  being  rendered^  though  rarely,  in 
order  to  enhance  their  beauty,  by  glass  of  various  co- 
lours. The  individual  tesser?e^,  especially  in  the  case 
of  the  smaller  specimens,  are  generally  fitted  together 
with  great  care  and  regularity  ;  ond,  when  not  injured 
by  exposure  to  the  salts  of  the  sea,  generally  retain 
much  of  their  original  freshness. 

Among  the  most  remarkable  that  have  come  to 
England  are — 

(K)  Two  large  pieces  containing  representations  of 
female  busts,  one  of  which  is  draped  over  the  shoulders 
with  a  red  drapery,  but  with  the  neck  bare.  The  face 
on  this  subject  is  exceedingly  well  shaped,  especially 
on  the  left  side  ;  in  the  hair  are  ears  of  corn,  and 
above  and  all  around  are  flowers.  This  slab  is  raore 
than  eleven  feet  long;  the  other  resembles  the  first, 
but  the  hair  of  her  head  is  fastened  over  the  forehead 
in  a  high  crobylon  or  knot.' 

(2.)  Three  female  figures,  draped  to  the  feet,  and  four 
feet  six  inches  high ;  of  these,  one*  is  seated  or  leans 
a^inst  a  table  pointing  to  a  tree ;  before  her  is  a  table» 
on  which  are  two  cups  or  small  bowls  and  a  bucket ; 
behind  the  table  is  a  tree,  on  which  a  bird  is  perched. 
This  figure  is  extremely  well  done  in  bright  colours 
— red,   whitCj    yellow,    black,  and  green.     Another* 

'  Mr.  Franks  calls  tliia  head  that  of  "Spring." 
*  Mr.  Franks  calU  this  figure  that  of  "  March." 
'  Mr.  Franks  calla  this  figure  that  of  "  Joly.'^ 

VOL.  VII  2  a 


448 


BKCENT    EXCATATIOKS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


leans  against  a  square  cippus,  eating  mulberfies  out 
of  a  bowl,  behiad  which  is  the  mulberry-tree.  This 
figure  is  draperl  in  a  long  tunic,  fitting  closely,  so  as 
to  show  the  outlines  of  her  figure ;  over  this  tunic  is  a 
sort  of  long  cloak  with  a  broad  border.  The  whole 
is  very  elegant  and  nearly  perfect,  with  only  the  upper 
portion  broken  off.  A  third*^  is  a  dancing-girl,  draped 
to  her  feet  in  a  flowing  robe,  covered  with  a  richly  va- 
riegated pattern.  Both  arras  are  extended  and  raised, 
and  the  right  holds  two  objects  probably  intended  for 
castanets.  Before  her  is  a  cippus,  on  which  is  a  smaU 
statue  with  the  face  well  shaded  and  expressive.  The 
same  colours  are  used  on  this  as  on.  the  other  one. 
Two  other  fragments  of  portraits  occur,  one^  of  which 
is  so  far  curious  that  it  exhibits  a  woman's  head  and 
fore  right  hand,  in  which  is  an  Egyptian  sistrum. 

(3.)  There  are  also  live  large  slabs  containing  flora! 
subjects;  of  these,  one  contains  an  extremely  elegRUl 
floral  pattern  of  four  large  leaves  of  some  plant  resem- 
bling the  acanthus,  attached  at  the  centre  to  each 
other,  and  the  whole  within  a  circle,  and  two  large 
vessels  (or  flower-pots),  in  which  are  magnificently- 
executed  representations  of  the  gilphium,  or  assafcc- 
tida-plant,  in  which  substance,  we  know  from  classi- 
cal writers,  there  was  a  large  trade  in  ancient  times 
from  the  northern  coast  of  Africa.^  Each  of  the 
pote  of  silphium  is  upon  a  slab  more  than  twelve 
feet  in  length.  On  noother  slab  is  a  representa- 
tion of  a  large  basket  made  of   reeds,  coataiaiag  a 


c 


"  Mr.  Franks  calls  this  figure  that  of  "April." 

">    Mr.  FraatcB  calls  this  figure  tli&t  of  "  November." 

•  These  two  vesauls  appear  to  have  funned  the  bgrOers  crf  DDe  large 

pavement.    (Fi-anks,  Archteol.  vol.  xxxviii.  p.  26.) 


BBCENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARtliAQE. 


449 


I 


great  variety  of  different  kinds  of  fish,  among  which 
may  readily  be  recognized  eels  and  lobsters,  lampreys 
and  mullets  ;  another  contains  two  excellent  represen- 
tations of  dolphins  J  and  a  third,  a  very  curious  Lalia 
inscription  represented  as  borne  in  the  arras  of  a 
winged  figure  or  angel,  and  composed  of  letters  about 
three  inches  long,  made  of  white  tesserae,  inlaid  on  a 
red  ground.  Unfortunately,  this  pavement  has  been  so 
much  damageil,  that  only  a  portion  of  the  right-hand 
side  of  the  inscription  can  be  recovered  ;  there  is,  how- 
ever, no  reason  to  doubt  that  this  is  a  late  Christian 
monument, — the  record,  possibly,  of  the  dedication  of 
some  early  church.  In  addition  to  the  above,  I  may 
menttOQ  the  following  mosaics  r — An  exceedingly  ele- 
gant design*  representing  two  antelopes  or  gazelles 
drinking  from  an  ornamental  fountain,  which  issues 
from  a  pipe  in  the  centre  of  a  circular  tuzza,  and  falls 
around  it  in  streamlets.  Behind  these  animals  are  two 
birds  admirably  executed,  and  recognizable  by  their 
red  beaks  and  red  legs  for  the  galliuule,  or  Porphyria 
Africus,  In  the  field  of  the  pavement  are  flowers, 
one,  probably,  the  tulip.  The  whole  has  been  beauti- 
fully put  together,  of  smalt  tesserae,  closely  fitting,  and 
is  still  in  good  preservation. 

Another  exhibits  a  curious  scene  of  two  men  fishing 
in  a  small  boat  with  many  fish  swimming  around  them  ; 
of  these,  three  can  be  recognized,  and  are  unquestion- 
ably the  dolphin,  the  sepia,  or  cuttk-fish,  and  a  species 
of  barbel.  The  fishing-lines  may  be  observed  hanging 
over  the  side  of  the  boat.  One  man  in  the  stern  ap- 
pears to  be  hauling  a  fish  on  board,  the  other  to  be  just 
about  to  throw  the  line.  The  whole  scene  is  full  of 
life  and  vigour,  and  is  preserved  even  to  the  colour  of 
the  gills  of  the  barbel. 

2  u2 


450 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CAIITHAQB, 


On  another  is  a  still  more  curious  scene.  In  this 
are  two  boats  at  its  opposite  ecds,  in  each  of  which 
are  two  men  ;  the  men  are  busily  cnga!j;ed  in  hauling 
in  a  long  net  or  seine,  which  occupies  by  its  curve  the 
whole  of  the  longer  end  of  the  slab.  Within  this  net 
are  seen  various  quadrupeds  and  birds,  inhabitants  of 
Northern  and  Central  Africa;  the  ostrich,  tlie  wild 
boar,  a  slag  with  large  horns,  an  antelope,  a  panther,  a 
lizard,  a  species  of  fox,  and  a  bird  with  yellow  belly 
and  black  legs,  probably  that  called  by  naturalists  the 
Pttrus  barbditis.  The  accuracy  with  which  the  cha- 
racteristics of  these  creatures  are  given  is  worthy  of 
note.  Thus  the  peculiar  step  of  the  ostrich,  the  cat- 
like spring  of  the  leopardj  and  the  crafty,  creeping 
attitude  of  the  fox,  are  admirably  rendered,  as  are  also 
the  eye  of  the  ostrich>  the  white  tusk8  of  the  boar, 
and  the  spots  of  the  leopard.  Under  each  object  is  a 
line,  either  indicating  ground  or  shading;.  The  whole 
is  well  preserved,  and  of  close,  compact,  small  tesserie. 
This  pavement  was  found  at  Utica. 

On  another,  which,  having  been  discovered  by  Mr. 
Davis  only  a  few  feet  from  the  actual  washing  of  the 
sea,  has  in  consequence  suffered  considerable  deterio- 
ration, is  a  curious  mythical  representation  of  two 
tritons  (or  men  naked  to  the  waist,  with  long  dolphin- 
like tails)  swimming  towards  and  holding  out  wreaths 
to  each  other;  on  their  backs  sit  two  women,  probably 
sea-nymphs,  one  with  a  large  flowing  veil,  the  other 
unveiled ;  at  each  end  are  two  small  dolphins. 

Perhaps  the  most  remarkable  of  the  whole  series  is 
one  on  whicli  tliere  is  a  scene  representing  two  jiea- 
cocks,  one  at  each  end,  formed  of  tesserie  of  blue. 
green,  and  red  glass.     One  has  his  tail  expanded,  and 


RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CARTHAGE. 


451 


I 


I 
I 


exhibits,  'with  mnch  accuracy  and  effect,  the  many 
colours  of  the  peacock's  tail,  still  fresh  and  glistening; 
the  other  is  shorter,  is  seen  in  some  degree  in  perspec- 
tive, and  has  a  hright-red  crest.  Two  other  birds  are 
also  there^  but  it  is  not  clear  what  they  are.  In  front 
of  the  birds  are  pots  with  tlowers  in  them^  in  one  of 
which  a  tulip  is  beautifully  drawn,  with  its  red  flower, 
green  petals,  and  dark-red  buds.  In  the  middle  of 
the  scene  is  the  Latin  word  fontes,  in  letters  of  blue 
glass,  and  below  it  are  two  blue  streams,  in  which  two 
hares  are  slaking  their  thirst.  The  whole  is  well  pre- 
served. This  Intermixture  of  glass  with  tesseree  of 
marble  and  tiles  is  not  common,  and  we  have  but  few 
specimens  of  this  species  of  art  in  England.  In  these 
pavements,  it  may  be  remarked  that  this  style  is  limited 
to  representations  of  water,  flowers,  and  birds. 

In  bringing  this  portion  ol'  my  subject  to  a  conclu- 
sion, I  may  state  that  there  are  only  two  more  mosaics 
worthy,  in  my  judgment,  of  more  especial  notice;  on 
one  of  these  are  two  excellent  representations  of  the 
vutpanser,  or  shelldrabe,  a  well-known  bird  of  North- 
ern Africa  ;  on  the  other,  a  series  of  female  portraits  in 
very  tolerable  preservation.  The  skill  with  which 
these  portraits  are  given  affords  a  very  favourable  idea 
of  the  mastery  \vhich  these  artists  had  obtained  over 
the  troublesome  material  in  which  they  worked.  Not 
only  is  the  shading  of  the  nose  well  drawn,  but  the 
finer  lines  of  the  countenance  are  clearly  depicted  on 
the  best-preserved  specimens.  Each  head  is  enclosed 
in  a  circular  medallion,  about  one  foot  in  diameter. 
They  are  altogether  six  in  number. 

I  may  add,  that  besides  the  mosaics  to  which  I  have 
called  more  especial  attention,  there  are  between  thirty 


452 


RECBNt    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGH. 


r 


and  forty  others,  containing  all  sorts  of  floral,  ara- 
besque, and  geometrical  patterns,  many  of  them  admi- 
rably designed,  and  some  quite  uninjured.  It  would 
not  be  possible  by  mere  description  to  convey  to  those 
who  have  not  seen  them  an  accurate  idea  of  their 
real  excellence.  I  believe,  however,  I  am  justified  in 
saying  that,  as  a  collection,  the  mosaics  procured  by 
Mr.  Davis  are,  with  the  exception  of  one  from  Car- 
thage, presented  to  the  British  Museum  by  Mr.  Hud- 
son Gurney  some  years  since,  the  finest  works  of  this 
cla&s  that  have  as  yet  been  sent  to  this  country. 

2.  Statues  or  Fragments  of  Statues. 

Mr.  Davis  has  not  been  successful  in  finding  maay 
sculptural  works  of  value,  so  as  to  place  his  excava- 
tions, in  this  respect,  on  a  par  with  those  conducted 
by  Mr.  Newton  at  various  sites  of  ancient  Greece; 
nor,  indeed^  is  this  fact  much  to  be  wondered  at.  Even 
if  it  could  be  shown  that  he  had  reached  in  his  exca- 
vations the  actual  ground  on  which  the  nucient  Punic 
city  was  built,  and  this  is  more  than  doubtful,  we 
should  not  anticipate  the  discovery  of  much  sculp- 
ture; for  it  is  a  curious  fact  that,  with  the  solitary' 
exception  of  the  Assyrians,  no  pure  Semitic  race  has 
left  any  sculptured  mbnumenls  of  real  importance. 
On  the  other  hand,  it  seems  almost  certain  that  the 
whole  of  his  excavations  refer  to  the  Roman,  and  not 
to  the  Punic  city.  Roman  Carthage  was,  at  best,  but 
a  great  Roman  colony,  and  we  have  scarcely  any  in- 
stance of  such  colonies  ha^■jng  exhibited  a  great  school 
of  sculpture.  Even  of  the  genuine  liomans  themselves 
it  may  be  ti-ulysaid,  that  they  cultivated  but  in  a  very 
humble  degree  the  art  of  sculpture,  most  of  the  fine 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CAaTlIAGH. 


453 


works  hitherto  discovered  in  Rome,  or  in  Roman  villas, 
being  the  production  of  Greek  artists  imported  directly 
from  Greece,  or  the  work  of  Greek  sculptors  who  had 
settled  in  Rome,  or  other  chief  cities  of  the  Roman 
empire. 

There  are,  however,  among  Mr.  Davis's  collection 
some  sculptured  ahjects  worthy  of  notice ;  as,  for 
instance,  two  colossal  statues  in  white  marble,  of  good 
time  and  fair  execution,  one  evidently  that  of  an 
emperor,  and  the  other  not  improbably  that  of  his 
empress,  though,  as  they  have  lost  their  heads,  we 
cannot  determine  whom  they  represent.  Besides  these 
are  two  heads,  much  defaced,  of  Greek  workmanship, 
perhaps  those  of  Apollo  and  ^sculapius ;  a  large 
number  of  sepulchral  cippi,  some  in  good  preserva- 
tion, hut  many  of  rude  and  late  ^workmanship,  together 
with  some  excellent  specimens  of  architectural  frag- 
ments, of  good  Roman  execution.  The  sepulchral 
monuments  nre,  I  suspect,  in  most  cases,  of  local  or 
native  workmanship,  and  there  is  nothing  In  them  to 
suggest  any  remote  antiquity  ;  on  the  contrary,  all  the 
forms  and  objects  they  represent  have  the  manifest 
characters  of  a  style  of  decadence.  They  may  be  fitly 
compared  with  the  sepulchral  monuments  found  in 
considerable  numbers  at  Kertch  and  in  its  neighbour- 
hood, none  of  which  are  probably  earlier  than  the 
-second  or  third  century  of  the  Christian  year. 

3.  Stones  inscribed  with  Characters  in  the  Phtsnician 
or  Carthaginian  Language. 

In  this  class,  the  collection  sent  home  by  Mr.  Davis 
is  peculiarly  rich.  Not  less  than  one  hundred  and 
eight  such  stones  are  now  in  England,  all  of  them 


454  RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CABTHAGB. 

discovered  in  tlie  neigh  bo  urbood  of  Carthage,  though 
not  all  actually  excavated  by  Mr.  Davis,  a  tew  of  Iheai 
having  been  found  some  years  since  by  a  German 
architect,  M.  Honegger,  who  resided  at  Tunig,  and 
from  whom  they  passed  into  the  hands  of  Sir  Thomas 
Reade,formerIy  English  Consul  at  that  place.  They  may 
be  arranged  in  two  classes,  (1)  Phcenician,  (2)  Late- 
Phcenician  ;  the  distinction  between  them  being  chiefly 
in  the  mode  of  writing  the  characters, — the  PhcEoician 
letters  being  generally  clear  and  sharply  executed; 
the  Late-Fhosnician,  on  the  other  hand,  being  exceed- 
ingly rude  in  their  carving,  and  often  almost  illegible. 
The  material,  too  of  the  late  inscriptions  Is  frequently 
a  soft,  fibrous,  calcareous  stoue,  which  has  suffered 
mucb  from  the  action  of  the  weather.  The  language, 
which  approximates  closely  to  the  Hebrew,  is  nearly 
the  same  in  both  classes. 

I  have  succeeded  in  deciphering,  with  the  assist- 
ance of  my  friends  Mr.  Franks,  the  Director  of  the 
Society  of  Antiquaries,  Mr,  Deutsch,  of  the  British 
Museum,  and  Dr.  Levy^  of  Breslau,  the  whole  of  the 
first  class  of  Phoenician  inscriptioas,  amounting  in 
all  to  ninety-  These  have  beer,  ail  engraved  and 
printed  at  the  expense  of  the  Trustees  of  the  British 
Museum,  and  will  soon,  1  trust,  be  in  (be  hands  of 
those  who  are  best  able  to  judge  of  the  accuracy  of 
their  transcription  and  translation.  The  only  inscrip- 
tions not  yet  engraven  are  about  eighteen,  of  the 
class  1  have  termed  Lalc-Phccnician ;  these  I  hope 
may  be  published  at  some  future  time  in  a  supple- 
mentary volume. 

The  material  which  has  been  adopted  for  the  Plioe- 
nician  inscriptions    is,  with  one  exception,  either  a 


.RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CAdTHAGE. 


435 


compact  limestone  or  a  fine  sandstone.  Generally  their 
fronts  and  backs  are  parallel,  and  the  upper  portion 
ol  them  terminates  in  an  acute  or  a  pedlmental 
form,  with  elevations  at  the  corners,  like  acroteria. 
The  front  is  usually  worked  lo  a  smooth  surface,  the 
inscription  having  been  sub&etjuenlly  engraved  on  it  by 
uieans  of  a  sharp  tool ;  the  backs  and  sides  are  simply 
hammer-dressed.  Few  (if  any)  of  the  tablets  are  as 
perfect  as  they  once  were,  many  of  them  having  lost 
their  upper  end,  while  nearly  all  of  them  were  ori- 
ginally longer  than  they  are  at  present.  They  vary 
from  five  to  twelve  and  a  half  inches  in  height,  from 
four  to  seven  inches  in  width,  and  from  one  and  a  half 
lo  four  inches  in  thickness. 

Of  the  period  when  they  were  executed  it  is  im- 
possible to  speak  with  precision ;  but  we  have  no  rea- 
son to  doubt  that  it  must  have  been  previously  to  the 
final  overthrow  of  Carthage  by  the  Romans.  Many 
distTcpancies  of  style  in  their  engraving  suggest,  in- 
deed, considerable  differences  of  date,  and  while  the 
majority  may  be  late  (though  nol  executed  after  the 
fall  of  Carthage),  two  at  least  exhibit  engraving  of  the 
best  style  and  time,  and  may  be  placed  as  early  as  the 
celebrated  Marseilles  inscription  in  the  fourth  or  fifth 
century  B.C.  It  may  be  further  remarked,  that  the 
few  decorations  still  traceable  in  the  portions  of  the 
tablet  above  or  surrounding  the  inscriptions,  betray 
no  Roman  influence,  but  are,  on  the  other  hand,  purely 
Greek.  Thus  the  fleurons,  or  honeysuckle  ornaments, 
exhibit  a  considerable  resemblance  to  those  on  the 
Greek  vases  of  the  second  and  third  century  b.c.  The 
same  is  true  of  the  egg  and  tongue  mouldings,  rosettes 
and  wreaths  which  also  occur  upon  them. 


45fi  EECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAG8, 

Tlie  deities  to  whom  tlie^e  tablets  are  dedicated  are 
invariably  Tgnith-Pen-BaaL  and  Baal-Hamman,  both 
of  whom  we  know  to  have  been  deities  worshipped  at 
Carthage.  Of  these  the  former  has  been  shown  by 
means  of  a  bihngual  inscription  found  at  Athens,  and 
now  in  the  British  Museuni,"  to  be  identical  with  the 
Oriental  Artemis  or  Diana,  who  was  called  in  more 
than  one  ancient  writer  Anaitis  or  Tanais  (Plutarch, 
Artax,  c.  27) ;  the  latter  is  probably  the  Belsamen  of 
the  'Pcenulus  '  of  Plautus,  the  Jupiter  Ammon.  whose 
worship  we  know  prevailed  very  extensively  in  Africa 
and  is  probably  the  same  as  the  Amun-Ra  of  the 
Egyptians. 

The  names  of  the  dedicators  of  these  curious  monu- 
ments (which,  with  two  exceptions,  are  unquestionably 
votive  and  not  sepulchral  in  their  character),  are,  in 
most  cases,  of  Semitic  origin,  and  compounded  of  the 
names  of  various  deities  and  of  words  denoting  de- 
pendence or  respect.  Thus  we  find  a  series  of  names 
connected  with  Melkart,  the  Tyrian  Hercules,  such 
as  Abd-Melkart,  Bad-Melkart^  Amt-Melkart,  etc.,  or 
with  Astareth  (Astarte)  ,as  Amt-Aslareth,  Bad-Astaretli, 

"  This  inscription,  formerly  in  tbe  Naval  and  MiJJtarv  Museara  Rt 
Scotland  Yarc),  is  VAluabh.  as  ohowtng  that  (he  Ahd-TitniUi  of  the 
Phttnician  leg^end  was  rendered  in  Greek  by  'Afireft.i&uipa^.  For 
'ApTtfii.';  'AvaLTi^,  v.  Pbub.  lii.  c.  IS,  and  for  'AprtfiK  Utprrtie^,  Ptaa. 
vii.  c.  6.  There  waa  also  an  'Aprtfiii  'AvtiTtj  nt  Ecbatana  (Paus. 
c.  27).  The  usual  title  of  Tanith  on  these  inscriptions  is  Peo-BaAl, 
Mfhich  1  bave  translated  Faciea-BBal,  following  b-  «u^g?etion  of  De 
Sau!cy-  This  agrees  remarkaljly  with  a  pHssage  in  Apuleius,  who 
addresses  the  Moon  as  "  Rcgina  Ccelii.  .  .  .  Deorum  Dear amque  facica 
uniformis,  etc."  [Metomorph.  xi,  S38),  There  is  no  rcusoTi  to  doubt 
that  Taniih  was  the  great  goddess  of  CarlhRge,  and  thus  compre- 
hended under  her  variuus  types,  those  of  the  principal  Greek  end  Ro- 
man female  deities. 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


457 


I 


I 


<jer-Astareth,  etc.  The  name  of  Asman  (the  Phceni- 
cian  j-Esculapius)  and  of  Bafil  are  frequently  found  in 
these  compositions,  aa^  for  example,  in  Abd-Asman, 
Bad-Asman,  Mahar-BaJll,  etc.  Many  names  too,  oc- 
cur with  which  the  classical  student  is  familiar,  such 
as  Hannibal,  Hanno,  Ilamilcafj  etc, ;  but  there  is,  at 
the  same  lime,  no  ground  for  supposing,  as  Mr.  Davis 
has  supposed,  that  any  of  tlie  names  here  recorded 
are  those  of  the  historical  personages  above  mentioned, 
though  it  is  possible  that  some  of  them  may  belong  to 
the  same  families. 

Altlioush,  however,  I  cannot  aeree  with  Mr.  Davis, 
that  be  has  found  the  actual  records  of  Cartbaginiang 
of  world-wide  renown,  I  do  not  think  that  this  fact  de- 
tracts much  from  the  value  of  the  large  collection  of 
Phoenician  inscriptions  which  we  owe  to  his  zeaL  If 
for  no  other  purpose,  I  believe  that  these  inscriptions 
— unhisitorical  as  I  acknowledge  they  are — will  prove 
of  great  use  in  setting  at  rest  the  often  disputed  ques- 
tion of  Phoenician  palfEography.  Those  who  have 
eludied  these  subjects  will  remember  that  M.  de 
Saulcy,  M.  ludas,  the  Abbe  Bourgade,  and  even  the 
father  of  Phoenician  interpretation,  M.  Gesenius,  have 
often  devoted  pages  to  the  discussion  of  the  form  of  a 
eingle  letter,  — in  many  cases,  doubtless,  because  the 
monuments  they  had  before  ti^em  had  been  carelessly 
copied  or  badly  preserved.  Had  they  had  the  present 
monuments  before  them,  much  ingenious  research 
might  have  been  more  profitably  and  more  successfully 
employed. 

I  believe  1  have  now  laid  before  the  Society  a  suffi' 
cient  outline  of  the  main  results  of  Mr.  Davis^s  labours, 
and  have  omitted  the  description  of  but  few  monu- 


458 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTBAGB. 


ments  which  could  without  the  aid  of  drawings  have 
been  made  intelligible  to  tny  hearers. 

One  only  question  now  remains,  to  whitli  I  rausl 
for  a  few  minutes  invite  your  attention.  It  is  this — 
to  what  period  are  we  to  assign  this  Carthaginian 
collection?  Are  we  to  assign  the  mosaics,  the  sculp- 
tures, and  the  inscriptions  to  one  and  the  same  date? 
or  ought  we  rather  to  believe  that  while  one  class  is 
altnust  certainly  Phcenician  and  anterior  to  the  over- 
throw of  Carthage,  none  of  the  others  can  with  any 
fair  presumption  be  placed  in  the  same  category? 

Now  with  regard  to  the  mosaics,  I  have  already 
mentioned  that  the  earliest  executed  in  Rome  are  at- 
tributed to  the  time  of  the  Dictator  Sylla  j  but  besides 
this,  little  evidence  of  the  use  of  mosaics  anywhere 
else  at  a  period  that  can  really  be  called  early  ;  so  far 
as  1  have  ascertained,  the  first  mosaics  were  made  at 
Alexandria,  probably  about  200  b,c.,  and  one  of  tlie 
most  memorable  ol'  their  early  uses  was  in  the  decora* 
tion  of  the  floors  of  the  great  ship  built  by  Hiero  il., 
king  of  Syracuse,  about  the  same  period.  These  are 
however,  only  incidental  notices,  and  it  can  hardly  be 
inferred  from  such  scanty  records  that  this  art  became 
immediately  common  or  universal.  More  than  this, 
if  this  date  were  to  be  strictly  adhered  to,  we  must 
confess  that  these,  the  earliest  recorded  works,  were 
executed  scarcely  more  than  one  hundred  years  before 
the  final  fall  of  Carthage,  and  not,  as  is  necessary  for 
Mr.  Davis's  tlieory,  before  the  commencement  of  the 
Roman  wars  with  that  city.  Il  could  not  therefore  be 
maintained,  even  on  chronological  data,  that  these  pave- 
ments are  really  the  work  of  Phoenician  Carthage. 

When  further  we  come  to  examine  them  as  works 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


459 


of  art,  we  are  still  more  confirmed  in  this  judgment ; 
not  only  is  there  no  subject  introduced  upon  them 
that  we  have  any  reason  to  suppose  purely  Phcenician, 
but  every  pattern  we  meet  with  on  Mr.  Davis's  pave- 
ments occurs  again  and  again  on  specimens  the  Ro- 
man origin  of  which  is  quite  undoubted ;  so  much 
indeed  is  this  the  case,  that  except  from  the  fact  of 
their  having  been  Ibund  at  Carthage,  no  one  would,  I 
believe,  have  assigned  them  to  any  but  Roman  times 
and  Roman  artists.  Again,  when  we  turn  to  the  actual 
history  of  Carthage,  we  cannot  fail  to  see  that  after  ail 
the  "Delenda  est  Carthago"  must  have  been  a  decree  of 
short  duration  ;  since,  only  twenty-lour  years  after  its 
fall  in  B.C.  122,  Gracchus  sent  a  colony  of  six  thousand 
settlers  to  this  site  j  that,  from  time  to  time,  fresh 
colonists  were  continually  added  to  its  population,  till 
when  Strabo  wrote,  it  had  become  as  populous  as  any 
city  in  Africa;  that  it  continued  to  flourish  more  and 
more  under  the  Empire,  so  that  Herodian  could  call 
it  the  next  city  after  Rome,  and  Ausonius  deemed  it 
second  only  to  Rome  and  Constantinople;  that  it  was 
for  many  years  one  of  the  most  important  Bishoprics 
in  Africa  and  the  capital  of  the  Vandal  kingdom  of 
Africa;  and  that  it  was  not  finally  overthrown  till  the 
fury  of  the  Arab  invasion  of  a.d.  647  carried  ail  be- 
fore it. 

We  can  hardly,  therefore,  be  surprised  that  almost 
everything  now  found  on  the  site  of  Carthage  ex- 
hibits so  strongly  the  Roman  type,  and  that  these 
and  other  pavements  discovered  there  have  been  gene- 
rally considered  by  all  scholars  as  nothing  more  than 
the  decoration  of  Roman  temples  or  villas,  built  above 
the  ruing  of  the  first  or  Punic  citv-     Mr.  Davis  has 


460     RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CARTHAOR- 

indeed  argued  strenuously  in  favour  of  the  Punic  origir. 
of  some  of  these  jmvements,  either  on  the  ground  of 
the  depth  at  which  they  have  been  found,  or  because 
they  have  been  discovered  near  some  cisterns  which 
have  been  generally  held  to  be  rehca  of  the  ante-Ro- 
man city.  I  do  not,  however,  discern  much  wei2;ht 
in  these  arguments.  In  the  first  place,  who  can  de- 
cide what  cisterns  are  Punic  and  what  Roman,  unless 
there  he  some  distinguishing  inscription,  or  symbol,  or 
device  upon  them?  And  secondly,  who  can  presume 
to  determine  how  much  accumulation  of  soil  may  have 
taken  place  on  a  site  exposed  as  that  of  Carthage  has 
been  for  thirteen  hundred  years  to  the  constant  ravages 
of  time  and  man,  to  take  no  account  of  the  yearly  ac- 
tion of  the  elements  on  a  promontory  peculiarly  ex- 
posed to  them  ?  I  cannot  help  feeling  that  all  the 
evidence  we  have  on  such  matters,  to  say  nothing  of 
the  general  character  of  their  workmanship,  irresis- 
tibly carries  the  conviction  that  the  whole  of  these 
pavements  belong  to  the  best  times  of  Roman  Car- 
thage. The  one  with  the  long  but  fragmentary  inscrip- 
tion  we  have  seen  must  be  Christian,  and,  from  the 
general  character  of  the  work,  and  the  appearance  of 
the  youths  who  bear  the  wreaths  and  fans,  not  earlier 
than  the  fourth  century. "^^ 

With  regard  to  the  next  class,  that  of  the  statues 
or  busts,  I  have  already  spoken  sufficiently.  They 
even  more,  if  possible,  than  the  pavements,  betray 
their  Roman  origin.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the 
few  specimens  of  architecture  Mr.  Davis  has  pre- 
served. There  is  no  ground  for  believing  these  monu- 
ments to  be  of  Phoenician  origin,  while  it  is  much  more 

^^  This  curiouB  mosaic  exhibits  a  Sying  ftgnre  eupporting  a  ubiet, 


I 


I 


BBCENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE.  4GI 

probable  that  they  belong  to  temples  or  public  build- 
ing as  late  as  the  times  of  the  Antonines. 

Of  the  last  class,  viz.  that  of  the  Inscriptions,  I  have 
already  spoken  pretty  fully,  especially  as  regards  those 
to  which  I  have  given  the  principal  attention  ;  thoee, 
for  instance,  which  I  have  called  Phrenician,  and  which 
I  believe  may  fairly  be  attributed  to  the  inhabitants 
of  Carthage  before  it  was  wholly  overthrown  by  the 
Romans.  ' 

At  the  same  time,  I  am  well  aware  that  some  scho- 
lars will  advocate  a  later  date  for  many  even  of  them, 
and  will  attribute  them  to  the  hands  of  a  native  popu- 
EatioQ,  who  may  be  presumed  to  have  subsisted  side  by 
side  with  the  Roman  colonists  for  several  centuries. 
Those  who  hold  this  view  are  doubtless  justified  in 
urging  the  difficulty  of  forming  a  decision  with  regard 
to  the  antiquity  of  monuments  which  rest  upon  no  his- 
torical evidence,  but  simply  on  a  comparison  of  the 
style  of  the  letters  used  on  the  individual  inscriptions. 
No  doubt,  this  difficulty  is  a  real  one;  and  I  do  cot 
deny  that,  out  of  the  whole  ninety  inscriptions,  a  few  of 

which  has  lest  the  whole  of  the  left-hatid  aide.  It  would  seem  to 
read  aa  followe : — 

NC    7UNDAHSNTA 

T£M      XIEDtCAVtMDB 

.    .     .    TIBI     DBTE     AMICI     FLORKN 
.     .     ,       DEUH        tNVDCA!4TEH        QUI 

VET    OADDENTES    .     . 

.    .      DOMINUS     TB      EXALTA 

.    .     .     7AFTILANEU      IN     MIH 

,     .    .CONBUBIUAVIT  .  0AUDEN3 

EMTBU    . 

bot  BcemB  hardly  capable  of  aatiafactory  reatoration.  It  waa  Toimd 
under  Sidi-bou-said^  about  four  feet  underground. 


462 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT   CARTHAGE. 


I 


the  worst  and  most  carelessly  engraved  specimens  may 
be  a  little  subsequent  to  the  fall  of  Carthage.  At  the 
same  time,  I  cannot  admit  that  even  these  ought  to 
be  classed  with  the  Late-Phcenidan,  all  of  which  I  be- 
lieve to  be  at  least  two  centuries  later  than  the  bulk  of 
the  earlier  monuments. 

With  regard  to  these  more  modern  inscriptions  which 
Gesenius  and  others  have  termed  Numidian,  but  which 
I  prefer  calling  Late-Phoenicianj  I  believe  there  is  no 
palaeographer  who  would  for  a  moment  hesitate  to  say 
that  they  are  comparatively  recent,  and  due  to  a  period 
long  subsequent  to  the  best  <l3ys  of  ancient  Carthage. 
The  character  itself  bears  all  the  marks  of  being  a  de- 
rived one,  and  the  engraving  of  the  letters  is  careless 
and  bad.  It  is,  indeed,  just  such  an  imitation  of  the 
clear  and  well-defined  letters  of  the  earlier  PhcEuician 
monuments  as  we  might  expect  to  find  when  the  people 
who  had  originally  made  use  of  this  character  had  been 
for  many  years  under  the  sway  of  a  foreign  dynasty. 
They  exhibit,  indeed,  ju&t  such  a  change  eis  may  be 
noticed  abundantly  among  tbe  literal  characters  of 
modern  India,  the  debased  Mahratta,  Burmese  and 
Cinghalese  writings,  exhibiting  a  similar  deflectioQ  from 
their  parent,  the  Pali-Devanagri,  which  the  Late-PhcE- 
nician  writing  exhibits  from  the  more  ancient  and  well- 
cut  Phccnician. 

The  whole  question  of  the  relative  age  of  sucb 
writings  depends,  I  believe,  on  a  careful  comparison 
of  the  forms  of  the  letters  occurring  upon  them,  a 
comparison  for  which,  in  the  case  of  the  Phoenician, 
we  have  fortunately  abundant  materials.  Nor  do  I 
think  that  it  is  any  objection  to  this  general  opinioo 
that  something  must  be  allowed  for  the  country  in 


RECENT   EXCAVATIONS   aT    CARTHAGE. 


4G3 


I 

I 


which  each  monument  may  be  presumed  to  have  been 
executed,  A  difference,  no  doubt,  exists  hetween  the 
Punic  writing  oa  the  sarcophagus  of  Asmunasar,  on 
the  Marseilles  inscription,  and  on  the  coins  of  the 
satraps ;  but  no  such  difference  as  has  caused,  or  la 
likely  to  cause,  any  material  doubts  among  scholars 
either  as  to  the  age  of  the  monuments  or  as  to  the 
correct  decipherment  of  the  inscriptions  which  are 
found  upon  them.  Still  less  need  we  be  troubled  by 
the  occurrence  of  well-known  names,  such  as  those 
of  Hannibal,  Hamilcar,  and  others,  even  if  found  ou- 
monuments  the  writing  on  of  which  is  clearly  of  recent 
times;  for  these  are  simply  Semitic  names^  and  might 
be  found  on  the  inscriptions  of  any  Semitic  population 
who  believed  in  deities  called  Baal  or  Melcart. 

Having  now  finished  the  account  of  the  more  espe- 
cial labours  of  Mr.  Davis,  I  think  it  will  be  not  out 
of  place  if  I  call  the  attention  of  the  Society  to  the 
exertions  of  another  labourer  in  the  same  vineyardj  M. 
Beule,  a  well-kno^vn  French  archKologist,  who  has  re- 
cently made  some  very  important  excavations  on  the 
site  of  Carthage,  and  sunk  shafts  into  the  soil  to  a 
much  greater  depth  than  Mr.  Davis  was  able  to  accom- 
plish with  the  limited  means  at  his  disposal.  M.  Beule's 
object,  indeed,  differed  in  some  degree  from  that  of 
Mr.  Davis,  in  that  he  was  desirous,  above  all  things, 
of  reaching  the  actual  soil  whereon  the  Phcenician  city 
has  once  stood;  and  for  this  purpose  was  compelled  to 
limit  the  area  of  the  excavations  so  as  to  penetrate 
through  the  vast  accumulation  of  Roman,  Byzantine, 
and  even  mediseval  remains,  winch  has  in  process  of 
lime  been  heaped  over  the  original  town. 

M,  Beuld'fi  first  step  was  to  study  minutely  the 

VOL.  VII,  2  1 


464  RECENT    EXCAVATJONS    AT   CARTHAGE. 

ancient  authorities,  with  the  view  to  ascertain  some^ 
wlmt  of  the  topography  of  Carthage,  there  having  been 
great  disputes  as  to  the  exact  position  of  many  of 
the  most  celebrated  places  in  the  ancient  city,  arising 
in  some  degree  from  the  incompleteness  of  the  an- 
cient accounts,  but  still  more  from  the  great  superficial 
depth  of  the  debris  now  resting  on  the  surface  soU, 
the  result  of  the  plunder  by  natives  and  strangers  of  ali 
the  cut  stone  they  could  procure  for  building  purposes, 
and,  on  the  western  side,  of  the  encroachments  of  the 
sea  and  the  variations  of  level  of  the  river  Bagradas. 
Much  in  elucidation  of  this  matter  was  performed  by 
Count  Falbe,  who,  in  1833,  published  an  elaborate 
map  of  the  peninsula  of  Carthage  on  a  scale  of  nearly 
four  inches  to  the  inile  ;  and  still  more,  aided  no  doubt 
by  Falbe's  map,  by  M^  Dureau  dela  Malle,  whose  me- 
moir on  the  various  points  of  Carthaginian  topograptiy, 
whether  Funic,  Roman,  or  Byzantine,  is  of  much  in- 
terest, and,  in  despite  of  some  remarkable  errors^  has 
doubtless  been  of  great  service  towards  the  satisfactory 
settlement  of  some  of  the  disputed  questions.  On  the 
whole,  however,  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  recent 
researches  ofM.  Beul^  will  prove  to  be  the  most  valu- 
able  contribution  we  have  received  on  this  subject,  as 
the  details  he  gives  are  the  result  of  his  own  esca- 
vations,  and  appear  to  he  established  on  satisfactory 
evidence. 

The  first  and  most  important  point  M.  Beule  had  to 
examine  was  the  most  probable  site  of  the  celebrated 
Byrsa,  as  on  the  accurate  determination  of  this  locality 
mainly  depends  the  position  of  all  the  other  parts  of 
the  city.  What,  then,  was  the  ancient  description  of 
it  ?     To  omit  the  fable  of  the  ox's  hide  cut  into  strips, 


RECENT  EXCAVATIONS  AT  CARTHAGE. 


465 


I 


I 

I 


I 


and  the  supposed  connection  of  this  name  with  the 
Greek  BCptra,  we  find  Strabo  stating  «otu  /ieanv  Se  t^c 

•TToXiv  ^   oKpoTToXts^  tjp  fKoXovu  Bvp&av,  o<f>pvs  txavws  opBia, 

KOKkfp  TTepioiKov/j^PT)  (xvu.  3,  14),'  and  that  Servius 
confirms  this  view,  on  ^n.  i.  368,  by  saying  "  Car- 
thago speciem  habuit  duplicls  oppidi,  quasi  aliud  al- 
terum  complecteretur,  cujus  interior  pars  Byrsa  dice- 
batur;"  while  Orosius  adds,  iv.  22,  "  Arx  cui  nomen 
Byrsa  erat  panic  amplius  quam  duo  millia  passuura 
tenebat." 

From  all  of  these  we  should  naturally  gather  that, 
whatever  the  Byrsa  looked  like,  it  was,  In  point  of  fact, 
an  Acropolis,  similar  to  those  so  common  in  Greece  ; 
that  it  was  built  on  a  natural  rock,  at  some  little 
distance  from  the  sea,  and  that  round  it,  in  process  of 
time,  the  city  spread,  as  from  a  common  centre.  Pro- 
bably this  Acropolis  at  first  contained  the  whole  of  the 
Tyrian  colonists,  the  great  city  having  been  the  result 
of  a  later  and  natural  expansion.  I  may  add  that  for 
the  origin  of  the  name  we  have  the  Aramcean  hirtha, 
nearly  the  same  as  the  Hebrew  fiosrmA,  which  means  a 
tower  or  a  fortress,  and  may  not  unnaturally  have  been 
applied  to  that  of  Carthage. 

Appian  (viii.  117)  stales  that  below  the  Byrsa 
there  was  an  extensive  plain  richly  fertile,  and  well 
irrigated  by  artificial  wells  ;  and  that  here  the  wealthy 
Carthaginians  had  their  houses  surrounded  by  gar- 
dens and  quickset  hedges.  It  ts  probable  that  this 
plain-district  can  be  identified  with  what  was  called 
Megara,  for  Serving  [Mu..  i.  14)  and  Isidorus  (Origin. 
XV.  1,  30)  state  that  magar  was  a  Punic  word,  meaning 
new  city;  and  we  know  that  a  quarter  of  Carthage  was 
called   by  the  Greeks  NeafraKis :   moreover,  Carthago 

2i2 


466 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAOB. 


itself  is  a  corruption  of  Kart-l-kadasnt^  a  name  whlchj 
under  the  form  of  Kartkada,  we  learn  from  Solious 
meant  "  new  city  "  (c.  27.  10),  and  which  occurs  con- 
stantly on  the  fine  coins  usually  attributed  to  Panormus 
(Palermo),  hut,  doubtless,  struck  by  the  Carthaginians 
in  Sicily.  If  this  theory  be  correct,  therefore,  the  old 
town  was  called  the  Byrsa,  while  the  rich  and  best-built 
portion  ultimately  gave  its  name  of  Carthago  to  the 
whole," 

1  may  remark,  en  passant,  that  the  building  of  a 
newer  and  grander  town  beside  the  original  old  one 
was  a  very  common  Oriental  custom.  Thus  we  have 
an  old  Babel  and  a  new  Babylon,  an  old  Nineveh  and 
a  new  Mosul,  etc.  ;  while  in  Panormus,  the  richest 
of  the  Carthaginian  colonies,  there  was  a  portion  of 
the    town  which,    like  Carthage,   bore  the  name  of 

NeaTToXts. 

The  position  of  the  Byrsa  can  readily  be  recognized 
by  any  one  who  attentively  surveys  the  ground  ;  there 
being  but  one  conical  hill  which  really  answers  the  de- 
scriptions of  the  ancient  writers,  and  which,  though 
now  of  course  very  different  superficially  from  what 
it  was  in  the  best  days  of  Carthage,  is  manifestly 
the  central  position  whereby  all  other  parts  of  the 
city  must  be  determined.  Strange,  however,  to  say, 
though  apparently  so  clear,  there  have  not  been  want- 
ing some  travellers,  like  Mr.  Blakesley,  who  have  tried 
to  find  the  Byrsa  in  other  parts  of  Carthage  i  not  to 
omit  M.  Earth,  who,  unnecessarily  and  gratuitously, 
imagined  that  it  was,  in  part  at  least,  an  artificial  ele- 
vation, constructed  like  the;fiu^Ta  of  the  Babylonians. 

"  MaffaUa,  another  name  for  old  Carthage,  is  probably  another 
form  of  tb«  word  Magar. 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


467 


I 


If  this  be  sOj  we  cannot  doubt  that  the  ancient 
Byrsa  is  now  represented  by  the  hill  of  St.  Louis,— a 
view  which  has  been  greatly  confirmed  by  M.  Beule, 
who  sank  shafts  at  various  intervals  along  its  surface, 
and  who  found  that  the  surface  above  the  live  rock 
was  entirely  composed  of  debris  varying  from  fourteen 
to  twenty  feet  in  thickness,  the  native  rock  being  itself 
an  argillaceous  grit,  yellowish  in  colour  and  easy  to 
work.  It  ie  probable  that  the  Carthaginians  levelled 
the  surface  of  this  rock,  so  as  to  render  it  more  fit  to 
receive  the  great  works  which  they  placed  upon  it,  I 
may  add  that  there  is  a  curious  piece  of  incidental 
identification  afforded  by  a  passage  in  Silius  Itaticus, 
who,  speaking  of  the  temple  of  Elisa,  or  Dido,  which 
he  states  was  on  the  Byrsa,  adds — 

"  Quod  taxi  circum,  et  picem  eq^uoJentibas  umbria 
Abdideraiit." 

Now  it  is  a  remarkable  fact,  that,  at  the  present 
time,  there  are  groves  of  fir-trees  at  the  back  of  the 
chapel  at  St.  Louis,  and  nowhere  else  on  the  plains  of 
Carthage  ;  and  further,  I  may  remark  that  the  story 
of  the  temple  of  Dido  on  the  Acropolis  is  analogous  to 
the  story  of  the  house  of  Romulus,  said  to  have  been 
preserved  on  the  Capitol  at  Rome ;  to  the  resting- 
place  of  Erechtheus  on  the  Acropolis  at  Athens;  and 
to  the  Sisypbion,  or  ancient  abode  of  Sisyphus,  on 
the  Acro-Corinth.  It  is  clear,  at  all  events,  that  the 
ancient  conception  of  Dido's  palace  was,  that  it  was 
the  highest  spot  within  the  wails,  an  idea  confirmed 
by  Statius's  description  of  it  (viii.  135) ; 

"  CujuB  de  sede  dabstur 
Cernere  cuncla  freta  el  tatam  Cortbaginis  urtwoi." 

It  will  not,  of  course,  be  expected  that  I  should 


468 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


attempt  toprove  topography  from  the  descriptions  of 
the  poets,  but  we  may  justly  allow  them  a  certain 
weiglit,  as  embodying  the  popular  traditions  of  the 
limes  when  tiiey  wrote. 

There  were,  besides  the  reputed  palace  or  temple  of 
Didoj  other  buildings  of  importance,  the  position  of 
■which  within  or  upon  the  Byrsa  are  uncjuestionable. 
Among  these  was  the  temple  of  Asmsn,  the  iEsculapius 
of  the  Phccniciaus.  Appian  describes  it  at  length,  snd 
states  that  it  was  on  the  side  oveHooIcing  the  forum  ; 
it  was  the  place  where  the  Senate  of  Carthage  was  ac- 
customed to  meet  in  troubled  times,  as  the  Seaate  of 
Rome  did  under  similar  circumstances  in  the  temple 
of  Concord.  It  is  remai'kable  that  we  have  no  account 
of  any  existence  in  Punic  times  of  a  temple  to  Jupiter, 
or^  to  the  least,  the  Tyrian  IlerculeSt  though  he  was 
supposed  to  be  the  Ardtegetes  of  the  colony.  When, 
however,  Carthage  was  rebuilt  by  the  Romans,  notices 
of  all  these  buildings  and  of  a  magnificent  temple  and 
palace  to  Dido  are  recorded  ;  and  M,  Beuld,  in  his 
excavations,  has  found  sufficient  remains  to  show  that 
the  restored  temple  of  iEsculapius  was  of  the  Corin- 
tliian  order,  and  that  of  Jupiter  of  the  Ionic. 

Adjoining  the  temple  of  ^sculapius,  and  probably 
within  its  Tt/iei'os,  was  the  curia  of  the  senate,  and  the 
public  library ;  while,  from  passages  in  Tacitus,  in  St. 
Cyprian,  in  Victor  Vitensis.  and  in  Procopius,  it  would 
seem  that  the  palace  of  the  Proconsul  was  in  the  same 
neighbourhood. 

The  position  of  the  Byrsa  determined,  we  are  able 
to  place  that  of  several  other  spots  ;  thus  the  temple 
of  Juno  was  certainly  on  a  separate  small  hill,  which 
was  not  enclosed  within  the  waUs  of  Carthage  till  the 


RECENT   EXCAVATIONS    AT   CARTHAGE.  469 

city  had  greatly  extended  itself  j  in  fact,  the  place  of 
the  temple  of  Juno  was  quite  analogous  with  those  of 
the  most  ancient  sanctuaries  of  that  goddess  in  Greece, 
as  at  Argos  and  Saraos.  Compare  Paus.  U.  IS,  Herod. 
ix.  96,  Athen.  xiii.  p.  372. 

Again,  the  town-walls  partly  depend  on  the  Byrsa; 
for  Orosius  tells  us,  that  on  the  side  of  the  Lake  of 
Tunis,  the  town-wall  and  that  of  the  Byrsa  were  one 
and  the  same.  Of  their  vast  size  and  strength  we 
have  ample  details  in  Diodorus  and  Appian,  and,  if 
these  authorities  can  in  the  least  be  depended  on»  there 
must  still  be  considerahle  remains  of  these  works, 
tliough,  like  the  surface  of  the  Byrsa,  covered  now 
deeply  by  the  debris  of  ages.  No  one  can  suppose 
that  the  decree  "  Delenda  est  Carthago  "  was  accom- 
phshed  by  Scipio  as  literally  as  Orosius  would  lead  us 
to  suppose,  where  he  states — 

"OiuDi  murtili  lapidc  in  pulverem  comminuto"  (iv.  33). 

The  greater  part  of  the  destruction  was  doubtless,  as 
we  have  suggested,  due  to  the  plundering  of  all  the 
available  building-stone  by  successive  generations  of 
rulers.  Indeed  what  they  have  done  is  by  no  means 
left  to  conjecture.  Edrisi  tells  us  how  this  system 
of  plunder  was  carried  on  in  his  days  ;  the  people 
of  Pisa  claim  the  marbles  of  Carthage  as  the  stone 
whereof  their  cathedral  was  built ;  Marmol,  the  friend 
of  Charles  v.,  states  the  same  of  the  Genoese;  and, 
in  quite  modern  times,  Ahmed  Bey,  the  last  ruler  of 
Constantineh,  built  his  palace  there  from  them.  The 
Beys  of  Tunis,  therefore,  and  the  last  English  consul. 
Sir  Thomas  Reade,  have  but  followed  the  example  so 
often  set  them  before. 

Still,  in  spile  of  all  this  havoc,  we  might  presume 


470 


RECENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGB. 


that  some  of  the  foundation-stones  would  be  in  sila, 
the  greater  part  of  the  plunder  having  doubtless  be- 
longed to  the  second  or  Roman  Carthage ;  and  this 
indeed  is  one  of  the  facts  which  have  been  proved 
by  the  excavations  of  M.  Beule,  who  commenced  hig 
works  by  digging  down  by  the  side  of  the  Byrsa,  and 
who  found  at  last  the  basements  of  the  wall  that  sur- 
rounded it,  which  measured  more  than  thirty  feet  ia 
thickness ;  and,  along  the  outside  of  these  walls,  the 
remains  of  a  road  or  street,  probably  that  whereby,  in 
ancient  times,  the  inhabitants  ascended  up  to  the  ci* 
tadel.  It  is  clear  that  the  researches  which  M.  Beule 
was  thus  led  lo  undertake,  have  been  most  valuable 
because,  partly  owing  to  the  great  depth  below  the 
present  surface-soil,  at  which  the  Phcenician  remains, 
if  any,  must  now  repose,  none  of  the  previous  explorers 
of  Carthage  have  been  able  to  prove  whether  actual 
relics  of  the  Punic  city  do  really  exist  in  s-itu  ;  all  that 
had  been  done  before  M.  Beul^  commenced  his  exca- 
vations was  to  determine  what  still  remained  above, 
or  but  little  below  the  present  ground,  and  these  could 
hardly  be  anything  else  but  the  memorials  of  either 
the  Roman  colony  or  of  the  works  of  the  Vandal  and 
Turkish  rulers.  Thus  all  the  mosaics  that  have  been 
met  with  repose  upon  a  bed  of  comparatively  recent 
origin,  and,  for  this  reason  alone,  could  not  be  con- 
sidered as  the  ornamental  works  of  the  Punic  inhabi- 
tants of  Carthage. 

M.  Beute  commenced  his  explorations  on  the  west- 
ern side,  where  M.  Falbe  has  already  noticed  vaults 
and  other  drbris^  attributed  by  him  lo  the  triple  wall 
of  the  ancient  city,  and  which  M.  Dureau  de  la  Malle 
supposed  to  huve  been  either  the  prisons  of  Gelimer, 


ILBCENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


471 


or  the  cavern  where  Cfficilius  Basrus  professed  to  have 
fouad  the  treasures  of  Dido.  M.  Beule  succeeded  ia 
proving  that  these  vaults  were  neither  more  nor  less 
than  a  series  of  RomaQ  cisterns,  the  natural  inclinatioa 
of  the  gfround  at  this  point  being  favourable  for  the 
collection  of  the  winter  rains.  On  opening  some 
trenches  to  the  north,  opposite  the  presumed  site  of 
tue  temple  of  Juno,  M.  Beule  next  discovered  two 
walls,  the  latter  one  evidently  rebuilt,  and  perceived  that 
both  of  them  had  been  constructed  from  previous  and 
Roman  buildings,  many  fragments  of  Roman  architect 
ture  having  been  noticed  embedded  in  them.  These 
therefore,  he  concluded,  must  be  of  Byzantine  times, 
and  probably  remains  of  the  Vandal  city.  Proceeding 
onwards,  he  came  to  still  more  enormous  blocks  of 
masonry,  all  of  them,  however,  detached  from  their 
original  places,  and  rearranged  doubtless  by  the  Ro- 
man architects-  He  then  carried  his  workmen  to  the 
south,  on  the  side  of  which  the  rock  of  the  Byrsa  is 
the  most  escarped,  and  where,  as  was  foreseen,  the 
covering  of  diibris  was  the  most  shallow  :  he  here  met 
with  quantities  of  cinders  and  other  manifest  traces 
of  a  long-enduriug  and  intense  conflagration.  Cuh- 
ously  enough,  along  this  side  were  the  remains  of 
very  early  Arabian  tombs,  built  of  the  dlbris  of  former 
buildings,  the  date  of  which  is  probably  that  of  the 
colonization  of  a.d.  1180,  hut  may  perhaps  ascend  to 
the  period  of  the  first  Arab  conquest  of  Carthage  by 
Hassan,  in  a.d.  697. 

After  great  labour,  and,  in  one  instance,  after  sink- 
ing his  shaft  through  fifty-six  feet  of  debrii,  M.  Beul^ 
came  upon  solid  walls,  which  he  reasonably  supposes 
to  have  been  those  of  the  original  Byrsa,  a  view  which 


472 


RECBNT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CAHTllAGE^ 


appears  the  more  certain,  as  we  have  the  direct  asser- 
tion of  history  that  New  or  Roman  Carthage  was  not 
eurrounded  by  walls.  The  discovery,  therefore,  of 
such  great  structures  at  so  great  a  depth  bt;low  the 
existing  surface,  almost  affords  proof  that  they  were 
the  original  and  Phcenician  works.  The  character  of 
the  ground  around  these  walls  showed  clearly  that  M. 
Beule  had  lighted  upon  the  part  which  was  destroyed 
by  Scipio. 

Appian  states  that  Scipio,  having  talven  the  ports 
by  surprise,  found  in  front  of  him  three  streets,  with 
houses  six  stories  high,  running  along  them.  These 
be  at  once  set  fire  to,  some  writers  asserting  that  the 
fire  lasted  seven  days,  others  seventeen.  Kow,  it  is 
a  curious  fact  that,  all  over  these  most  ancient  walls, 
M.  BeuM  found  a  bed  of  cinders  from  three  feet  six 
inches  to  four  feet  nine  inches  thick ;  and  among 
the  cinders  many  blocks  of  cedar  or  pine,  in  some 
instances  not  wholly  burnt  through,  and  exhibiting  an 
appearance  as  though  the  lower  part  of  the  burnt  ma- 
terials had  been  stifled,  ere  completely  calcined,  by 
the  want  of  air.  United  with  these  were  found  quan- 
tities of  fused  metal,  iron,  copper,  tin,  and  glass,  in  all 
cases  so  completely  transformed  by  the  action  of  in- 
tense heat,  that  it  was  no  longer  possible  to  form  even 
a  conjecture  what  purpose  they  had  originally  served. 

Still  more  complete  evidence  of  the  character  of 
these  walls  was  afforded  by  the  fact  that  within  them 
were  found  quantities  of  fragments  of  pottery,  and 
these  always  of  that  brownish  colour  which  belongs 
to  the  archaic  vases  of  Corinth,  Athens,  Therse,  and 
even  Etruria.  M.  Beule  was  ultimately  able  to  de- 
termine the  exact  character  of  this  wall.     He  found 


HBCENT    EXCAVATIONS    AT    CARTHAGE. 


A73 


Ibat  its  entire  thickness  was  about  thirty-three  feet, 

constructed  of  massive  blocks  of  tufo;  but  that, 
through  it,  there  were  a  series  of  hollow  ways  which 
reduced  the  thickness  so  much  that  the  external  por- 
tion, or  actual  defence  against  the  battering-ram,  was 
only  from  twelve  to  thirteen  feet  in  thickness.  Within, 
towards  the  hill  and  completely  sunk  in  the  solid  wall, 
were  a  series  of  chambers  resembling  those  of  bomb- 
proof bastions,  each  of  them  about  twenty  feet  in 
depth  and  ten  feet  wide,  separated  the  one  from  the 
other  by  transverse  walls  four  feet  thick.  It  is  re- 
markable that  Appian,  whose  narrative  is  confirmed  by 
Diodorus,  gives  to  the  ancient  walls  the  exact  thick- 
ness of  those  thus  discovered,  and  states  that,  within, 
them,  wwe  constructed  chambers  which  served  as 
stables  for  the  horses  and  elephants.  Most  of  the 
blocks  used  in  their  construction  are  five  feet  broad, 
three  feet  three  inches  thick,  four  feet  three  inches 
high ;  and  the  transverse  walls,  which  are  the  best 
preserved,  still  exist  to  the  height  of  from  thirteen  to 
sixteen  feel. 

Such  is  a  brief  notice  of  the  most  important  of  M. 
Beul^'s  discoveries.  I  think  there  can  be  no  questioQ 
that  he  has  reached  the  base  of  the  original  Phceniciaa 
walls  i  and  I  trust  that  funds  may  be  supplied  to  him 
by  the  archaeologists  of  France  to  enable  him  to  pro- 
secute more  completely  the  important  excavations  he 
has  so  happily  commenced. 

W.  S.  W.  Vaux. 


474 


XVII.— ON  THE  COMBAT  BETWEEN  CONLACH  AND 
CUCHULLIN.  IN  GAELIC,  COMPAUED  WITH  THAT 
BETWEEN  UlLDEDUAND  AND  HATUUBRANT.  IN 
GEBMAN. 

HT    H.  O.  LATRAH,  M.D. 

(ReadApr^  14,  1863.) 


The  poem  on  a  fight  between  Conlacb  and  Cuchullia, 
is  one  of  those  valuable  fragments  of  the  old  Gaelic 
which  have  just  been  published  by  M'Lauchlan  and 
Skene,  under  the  title  of  the  Dean  of  Lismore'g  Book- 
See  pp.  30-53  for  the  English  translation  and  pp.  34- 
36  of  the  original.  No  remark  is  made  upon  it  except 
those  taken  from  the  text  itself  and  the  notes.  It  is 
headed 

This  tale  is  by  GiUiecallum  M'Aan  Olave. 

That  the  father  kills  the  son,  and  that  his  mother,  in 
revenge  for  CuchuUm's  having  fors.aken  her,  sent  her 
son  into  Ireland  under  a  vow  never  to  disclose  his 
name  unless  conquered  in  battle,  and  that  she  did  it 
with  a  purpose,  is  stated  in  one  note.  In  another, 
Cuchullin'a  wife  is  said  to  have  been  unwilling  that  be 
should  engage  with  Conlach.  In  a  third  a  reference 
is  made  to  the  Persian  tale  of  Zohrab  and  Hustum; 
with  the  remark  that  the  two  tales  must  have  bad  a 
common  origin.  Without  examining  the  details  of  this 
opinion,  the  present  writer  simply  compares  the  Gaelic 


COMLACH    AND    CUCHCLLIN.  475 

poem  with  the  well-known  German  (Frank  or  Saxon) 
of  Hildebrand  and  Hatbubrand ;  making,  of  course, 
mutatis  mutandis,  the  same  suggestioa.  The  parts 
wherever  the  details  are  the  closest,  are  in  italics.  No 
comment  is  added,  the  reader  being  left  to  form  his 
own  opinion  as  to  both  the  amount  of  likeness  and 
the  cause  of  it. 


THE  GAELIC  FOEH. 


/  have  heard  a  late  of  old, 
A  tale  that  sboald  make  ub  weep  ; 
"Ta  time  to  relate  it  sadlj, 
AlthoDgh  it  shoold  fill  ns  with  ^ef. 
Rary*B  race  of  no  soft  grasp, 
Children  of  Connor  and  Connal ; 
Bravely  their  youth  did  take  the  fields 
In  Ulster's  noble  province. 
None  with  joy  returned  home 
Of  Banva's  proudest  heroes. 
For  as  they  once  more  tried  the  fight, 
Rary's  race  did  win  the  day. 
There  came  to  us,  fierce  his  mien, 
The  daantleSB  warrior,  Conlach, 
To  leara  of  our  beauteous  land. 
From  Dunseaich  to  Erin. 
CoDDor  spoke  thus  to  his  men  : — 
"Who's  prepared  to  meet  the  youth, 
And  of  him  to  take  account ; 
Who  will  take  no  refusal  i " 
Then  the  strong-armed  Connal  went. 
Of  the  youth  to  take  account ; 
The  end  of  their  fight  was  this, 
Conlach  had  bound  Connal. 
Yet  the  hero  did  not  halt ; 
Conlach,  brave  and  vigorous, 


476   COMBAT   BETWEEN    COMLACH    AMD   CUCHULLIN, 

He  bouod  a  hundred  of  our  men. 

It  is  a  Btrange  and  moumlui  tale. 

To  the  bounda'  great  chief  a  meuage 

Was  sent  by  Ulster's  wise  Icing, 

To  suony,  fair  Dandalgin, 

The  old,  wise  fort  of  the  Gael, 

That  stronghold  of  which  we  read, 

And  the  pradent  daughter  of  Forgan. 

From  thence  came  he  of  great  deeds. 

To  Bee  our  generous  king : 

To  know  of  Ulster's  great  race. 

There  came  to  as  the  red  branch  Ca, 

His  teeth  like  pearl,  cheeks  like  berries. 
"  Long,"  said  Connor  to  the  Cu, 
"  Has  been  thine  aid  in  coming. 

While  Connal,  who  loves  bold  steeds. 

Is  bound,  and  a  bnndred  more." 
"  Sad  for  me  to  be  thus  bound, 

Friend,  who  couldst  soon  unloose  me." 
"  I  couldn't  encounter  his  sword> 

And  that  he  has  bonnd  brave  Connal." 
"Refuse  not  to  attack  him. 

Prince  of  the  sharp,  blue  sword, 

Whose  arm  ne'er  quailed  in  conflict. 

Think  of  thy  patron  now  in  bonds." 

When  CuchuUin,  of  the  thin-leaved  Bword, 

Heard  the  lament  of  Connal, 

He  moved  in  his  arm's  great  might 

To  take  of  the  youth  account. 
"  Tell  us  now  that  I  have  come, 

Youlh  who  fmrest  not  thejtght. 

Tell  us  now,  and  tell  at  once. 

Thy  name,  and  whereas  thy  country  ?" 
"  Ere  I  left  home  I  had  to  pledge 

That  I  should  never  tbat  relate  ; 

Were  I  to  tell  to  living  man, 

For  thy  love's  sake  I'd  tell  it  thee." 
"  Then  must  thou  with  me  battle  do, 

Or  tell  thy  tale  as  a  friend. 

Choose  for  thyself,  dear  youth. 


ND    BETWEBN    BILDEBRAND    AND    HATHUBHANT.  477 

Bat  mind,  to  fight  me  is  a  risk  ; 
I«t  as  not  fi^ht,  I  pray  thee, 

Brave  leopard,  pride  of  Erin, 

Boldest  in  the  battle-field, 

My  name  I  would  tell  onbooght." 

Then  did  they  commenct  the  fight. 

Nor  ^as  it  the  fight  of  women. 

The  youth  received  a  deadly  wound. 

He  of  the  vigoroas  arm. 

Yet  did  Cuchullin  of  battle^ 

The  victory  on  that  day  lose, 

His  only  son  had  follen,  slain, 

That  &ir,  soft  branch,  so  gentle,  brave. 
"  Tell  as  now,"  said  skilful  Co, 
"  Since  thou  art  at  cor  mercy. 

Thy  name  and  race,  tell  w  in  full; 

Think  not  to  refuse  thy  tale." 
"  Conlach  I,  Cuchullin's  son, 

Lawful  heir  of  great  Dundalgin, 

It  was  I  thou  teft'st  unborn, 

When  in  Skiath  thou  wast  learning. 

Seven  years  tfl  the  east  I  tpent. 

Gaining  knowledge  from  my  mother ; 

The  pass  by  which  I  have  been  slain 

Was  all  I  needed  still  to  learn.' 

Then  does  the  great  Cuchullin  see 

His  dear  son's  colour  change ; 

As  of  his  generous  heart  he  thinks, 

His  memory  and  mind  forsake  him ; 

His  body's  excellency  departs, 

His  grief  it  was  destroyed  it ; 

Seeing  as  he  lay  on  the  earth 

The  rightful  heir  of  Dundalgin ; 

Where  shall  we  find  his  like, 

Or  how  detail  bis  grief  ? 
I  have. 


478   COUBAT    BETWEBN    CONLACH    AND   CUCHUJLLIN, 


THE  OEBUAlf  POEM. 

/  heard  that  say. 

That  they  chaUeaged  in  smgle  combat, 
Hiltebniht  and  Hathnbraht, 
Between  the  armies, 


They  made  ready  their  war-coats. 

They  girt  their  Bwords  on. 

Heroes  over  the  ring, 

When  they  to  the  war  rode. 

Hittebraht  BpoltCi 

Heribrant's  son. 

He  was  the  nobler  man. 

Of  age  more  wiae. 

He     ...     . 

With  few  words,  who  his  "  father  was. 

In  the  folk  of  men. 

Or  of  what  kin  thou  beest." 
"  If  thou  me  only  sayest, 

I  forbear  contest, 

Child  in  kingdom. 

Known  is  me  all  mankind." 

Hadubraht  aoewered,  Hildebraot's  son, 
"  That  said  to  me 

Our  people,  old  and  wise, 

Who  of  yore  were 

That  Hilbrant  bight  my  father. 

(I  bight  Hadubrant) 

Fore,  hence  eastward  departed, 

Fled  Odoacer's  spite, 

I  .  .  .it  Theodoric, 

And  of  his  thanes  many. 

He  left  in  land 

I.ittle  to  sit. 

Bride  in  bower ; 


AND    BETWEEN    HILDEBRAMD    AND    HATHUBRAHT.  479 

Bairo  uDwaxen, 
Heirdomless  heir. 
Eastward  him     .     .     . 


Of  my  kinsman, 

That  was  so  frieadless  a  mail. 

He  was  to  Odoacer  unequal. 

Of  thanes  worthiest. 

As  lon^  as  to  Theodoric. 


He  was  even  of  the  people  at  the  end  (top). 

Him  was  the  fight  too  dear, 

Known  was  he  to  keen  men, 

I  ween  not  whether  he  live. 

Wot  thou  Irmin-gott,"  quoth  Hitdibraad 

Over  in  heaven. 

That  then     .     .     . 


Wound  he  then  of  arm 
Thou  wDunden  bow. 


Which  to  him  since  the  king  gave. 

The  Lord  of  the  Huns, 
"That  I  to  thee  in  favour  give," 

Hadubraht  answered,  Hildebrand's  eon  ; 
"  With  arms  shall  man 

Gifts  receive. 

Point  to  point  against     .     .     . 

Thou  beest,  old  Hun,  unequal 
.     .     .     .  tbou  prickest  me 

With  thy  words, 
.     .     now 

With  spear  cast, 

Beest  so  aged  a  man. 


That  said  to  me, 


Westwards  over  the  Vandal  Sea, 
That  man  war  took, 
Dead  is  Hiltibraht 
VOL.  VII.  2  K 


480   COMBAT    BETWEEK    CONLACH    AND    CUCHULLIHi 

Heribrant's  bod," 
Hiltlebraht  answered, 
Heribraht'e  Bon : 
"  Well  Bee  I 
Id  tbjr  hameBs, 

That  thou  do  good  master  bast> 
That  thou  still  bv  this  kingdom 
Hero  art  not. 

Well  away,  now,  great  God." 
Quoth  Hiltibrant ; 
"  We  wDl  decide ! 
I  wandered  summer  and  winter. 
Sixty  out  of  the  land 
There  they  me     .     ,     . 
In  the  folk     .... 
So  they  me  at  any  burg 

.  .  .  not  fastened. 
Now  me  .  .  .  child 
With  sword  hew 

.     .     with  his  bill. 
Or  I  to  him  be  the  bane. 
Still  mayest  thou  easily 
If  to  thee  thy  strength.  .     .     . 

.     ,     .     .  noble  man 
With  arms  win. 
Prey  to  ravens. 
If  thou  there  any  right  hast." 


Quoth  Hildibradt     .     .     . 
"Now  it  BO  well  pleases  thee. 


Thenlet  thy  first 
With  axes     .     .     ." 
With  sharp  showers. 
That  on  the  shields  sounded  ; 
They  dashed  together 
sounded 


AND    BETWEEN    HILDEBRAND   AND    HATHUBRANT.  481 

They  hewed  harmfully 
The  white  shields. 
And  to  them  their  lindens 
Little  were. 

The  traaslatioa  of  the  German  poem  was  made 
some  months  ago  by  the  present  author,  for  a  very  dif- 
ferent purpose,  and  was  published  a  few  weeks  before 
the  book  of  the  Dean  of  Lismore.  All  the  parts  he 
had  any  doubt  about  he  left  blank ;  and  he  thinks  it 
better  to  give  it,  at  the  present  time,  in  its  original 
form,  than  to  either  add  or  subtract. 


2k2 


4S2 


XVIIL— MEMOIRE  sue  L'ORIGIXB  SCTTHO-CIMMfi- 
KIENNE  DE  LA  LANQFE  EOMANE. 

FA.a  iS.  LK  DUO  DV  EOU88ILI,ON,  ETC.  BTO.,  ICIMBBB  SB  FLUS1EUB3 

SOCliT^B    8A.TAITTBa. 

(Lu  a  U  seance  da  11  juin  1862.) 
PREMIERE    PAETIE. 

J'ai  rhonneur  de  communiquer  k  I'Acad^mie  une  d^- 
couverte  qui  pourra  servir  k  faire  connaitre  toute  Tuti- 
lit^  que  Ton  peut  retirer,  au  point  de  vue  des  origines, 
d'un  element  fort  n^glig^  jusqu'ici  dans  les  Etudes 
arch^oiogiques.  Get  dl^ment  n'est  autre  que  la  nomen- 
clature des  noms  de  lieux  d'une  contr^e,  habits  ou  non, 
de  montagne,  vallon,  cours  d'eau,  prornontoire,  ^tang, 
etc.  etc.  II  est  logique  d'admettre,  que  chaque  asso- 
ciation humaine  qui  s'est  fix^e  la  premiere  sur  un  sol, 
a  da  determiner  et  arrSter  toutes  les  d^ignations  de 
cette  nature  n^cessaires  h.  ses  fins,  soit  qu'elle  appor- 
t&t  avec  elle  un  langage  tout  fait,  ou  bien  que  la  forma- 
tion de  son  idiome  soit  post^rieure  h.  I'^poque  de  son 
^tablissement.  II  est  Evident  aussi  queces  designations 
ont  6t6  prises  dans  son  langage  rafime.  Certes,  si  les 
races  ne  s'^taient  pas  melees,  rien  ne  serait  plus  facile 
que  ta  classification  des  elements  que  foumirait  la  plus 


I 


0RI(J1>E   DE   LK    I.ANGUE    HOMANE. 

superficielle  inveatigation.  Malheureusement,  il  n'ea 
serait  pas  ain&i  pour  le&  pays  ancieonemeat  habites,  h 
ce  que  I'on  suppose,  Ici,  la  conqu&te  aurait  succes- 
sivenieot  depose  sur  le  m^nie  sol,  comme  les  couches 
multiples  d'un  Itmon  different  de  nature,  vingt  peoples 
dont  le  langage  ne  se  ressenible  point.  Et  en  admet- 
taiit  que  chaque  nouvelle  conquSte  ait  ameu^  une  nou- 
velle  modification,  dans  le  sens  du  dernier  idiome  in* 
troduit,  comment  est-il  possible  de  Be  reconaattre  au 
milieu  d'une  telle  confusioQ?  Cest  1^  du  moins  I'opi- 
nion  admise.  C'esl  centre  cette  opinion  que  j'auraj  a 
Jutter  lorsque  j'avancerai,  par  esemple,  que  sur  un  sol 
qui  m'est  tres-farailierj'en  conviens,  les  deux  versants 
dcB  extremes  Pyren&s-Orien tales,  entre  le  cours  de 
I'Aude,  de  la  S^^gre  et  la  Mediterrao^e,  k  peu  prfesj  je 
puis  demontrer  que  la  plus  grande  partie  des  noms  de 
lieu  est  tiree  de  la  langue  romane.  Elle  n'eii  sera 
que  plus  rebelle  si  j'ose  affirmer  que  deux  mills  noms 
de  lieu  environ,  releves  sur  les  cartes  de  la  Kenonese 
/aun'yue,  herds  du  Palus  Mizotis  et  du  PoTtt  Euxin, 
pr^sentent  le  m^nie  cai^ctere.  d'oii  r^sulterait  que 
I'idiome  vulgaire  de  la  Gaule  celtique  et  nord  de 
I'lb^rie  aurait  ete  introduit  dans  ces  deux  derni^res 
contrees  par  une  Emigration  appartenant  a  des  peuples 
dej^  elabljs  sur  le  sol  de  la  peninsule  cimm^rienne  et 
ses  environs. 

Je  suis  loin  d'ignorer  tous  les  ^cueils  que  contient 
le  terrain  mouvant  de  I'etyniolojjie.  La  savante  Aca- 
d^mie  devant  laquelle  j'ai  I'honueur  de  parler  di^cidera 
si  je  suis  parvenu  a  les  ^viter  tous,  ou  en  partie. 

II  est  d'ahord  un  premier  principe  <!  poser,  demon- 
trer et  etablir  assez  solidement  pour  qu'il  resiste  k 
toute  objection,  car  il  forme  la  base  sur  laquelle  repose 


484 


l'orioinb  8cttho-cihh£euennb 


principalemeDt  mon  travail.  Ce  principe  c'est:  que 
les  noms  de  lieu  monosyllabiques  ne  sont  pas  sujetSf  ghte- 
ralement  parlant,  d.  produire  des  erreurs  d'itymologie, 
etant  pris  dans  les  limites  assez  Stroites  ci-dessus  tndi- 
quees,  c'est-^-dire  I'Aude,  la  Skgre  et  la  mer.  Malheu- 
reusement,  Us  ne  sont  pas  nombreux,  et  jusqu'i  pre- 
sent je  n'en  ai  recueilli  que  126. 

Nomenclature  dea  Noma  monosyllabiques  des  Lieux  habitia  ntr  lea 
deux  veraanta  des  PyrhUes-Orientales  extremes  : 


Roman. 

Francis. 

Roman. 

Francis. 

Alb 

aurore 

Cot 

cotte 

All 

de  I'ail 

Cuel 

r&olte 

Ars 

les  arts 

Creii 

croix 

Archs 

les  arcs 

Cos 

corps 

Ax 

torclie 

Das 

Balps 

engourdis 

£n 

vase  &  Uquide 

Bas 

baa 

Erm 

inculte 

Bar 

barre 

Er 

aire 

Bel 

voile 

Fail 

je  fais 

Bet 

nacelle 

Fay 

id. 

Brcs 

Far 

faire 

Bricks 

Fels 

Boix 

buis 

Fent 

feint 

Bols 

vols 

Font 

fontaine 

Bor 

bord 

Foil 

fuit 

Bot 

Toeu 

Flix 

Bruch 

liruyere 

Fals 

faux 

Bnill 

cbute  d'eau 

Gau 

gue 

Brcn 

petit  pain 

G^s 

minime 

Cam 

champ 

Ger 

Jarre 

Cerch 

recherche 

Gerp 

Clot 

fosse 

Gep 

Joseph 

Corb 

corbeau 

Gorchs 

marais 

Cora 

eoeurs 

Gi-a 

grain 

Corts 

cours 

Grols 

grossiers 

DE   LA  LANOUK   SOMANE. 


435 


Roman. 

JPmnfOM. 

Roman. 

Frangats. 

Cola 

choux 

Plea 

plaisirs 

Gos 

chien 

Pal* 

b&tona 

Grau 

£tang 

Pola 

pousaiere 

Que 

Prats 

pr€a 

Guils 

rochers  aigua 

Pruit 

Gurb 

Puig 

pic 

Ix 

il  sort 

Pons 

ponts 

Joch 

jeu 

Quart 

quart 

Joii 

couch^ 

Quer 

rocber 

Jug 

Jong 

Quea 

Jor 

jure 

Rech 

rniaaean 

Liar 

du  lard 

Reus 

Lies 

Reig 

rigole 

Leap 

Ku 

rivi&re 

Llers 

Rns 

blond 

Llirt 

Sans 

aainta 

Llors 

lauriers 

Sart 

Sarde 

Llo 

Scarp 

prix  fait 

Mas 

manoir 

SUb 

sourcils 

Mar 

mer 

Sco 

Mir 

observatoire  ' 

Sort 

le  aort 

Mur 

miire 

So 

sous 

Nas 

nez 

Stom 

detour 

Ntls 

miaulementa 

Stol 

cscadre 

Nuch 

noix 

Tech 

il  tisse 

Nou     , 

Deuf 

ToBt 

t6t 

Nyer 

uids 

Tor 

terrain  mur^ 

Oix 

il  sort 

Tons 

creux 

Oms 

orraeaux 

Tremp 

treinpe 

Orts 

jardins 

Torn 

tour 

Os 

OB 

Ur 

heure 

Ot 

otton 

Urg 

Pau 

pais 

VOB 

TOUS 

Pi 

pin 

Valla 

vallees 

Pla 

plaine 

Vim 

osier 

Pao 

paoD 

Vich 

486 


l'oRIGINE    SCVTHO-CIMM^RIKNNB 


COUBS  D  EAU. 

Romiin.         FrangaiK.  Homaii, 

Lli  ou  Gli'   lin  Ter 

Tet  mamelle  Tort 


Fniinytia, 

terre 

tortuenx 


Ainsi  que  I'on  peut  e'en  assurer,  en  consultant  les 
dictionn aires,  de  la  langue  catalane,  I'ua  des  dialectes 
du  Roman,  la  signification  de  100  environ  de  ces  uotns 
de  lieu  iiiotiosyllabiqiies  est  bien  ^tablie.  On  peut 
done  admettre  leui'  fondation  pat  un  peuple  ^ui  eui- 
ployait  d6}h  I'idiome  ou  langage  dont  ils  font  partie. 
Que  de  plus  les  conquerants  post^rieurs,  quoique  par- 
lant  une  langue  diflerente,  n'orit  pas  changd  lea  noms 
de  lieu  ea  leur  uttribuant  une  designation  tirile  de  la 
leur,  cela  me  parait  clair.  Mais,  puisque  ces  lieux 
monosyllabiques  out  conserve  leur  designation  primi- 
tive intacte  k  travera  toutes  les  couches  de  conquerants 
h  langages  divers,  on  peut  admettre  aussi  que  des  noms 
polyiiyllabiques  out  aubi  le  m^me  sort,  et  scat  parvenus 
jusqu'il  t^ous  purs  de  tout  melange  cu  alteration.  Que 
Ton  peut  alors  controler  leur  origine  au  moyen  de  la 
langue,  sauf&  tenir  coinptede  lu  terniinaison  qui  quel- 
quefois,  mais  pas  toujours,  s'est  prise  ii  imiter  la  forme 
du  dernier  idioine  domiuateur. 

Maintenant,  je  dois  faire  robsefvation  suivante: 
regtant  toujours  dans  leg  limites  de  territoire  fort 
reslreintes  que  je  me  sms  impos^es.  je  ne  constate  une 
grande  tentative  de  transtbrmation  apjjellalive  qu'i 
I'epoqije  de  I'introduction  du  Cliristianisme.  La  cons- 
truction de  tant  de  chapelles,  chacune  sous  I'invoca- 
tion  d'un   saint,  dont  le  nom  tout  personnel  n'^tait 

'  La  gfy  peut  £tre  r&breviatiou  de  VayguaU,  niftSM  d'efca. 


DE    LA    LAMGUU    UOHA.NE. 


467 


I 
I 
I 


I 


pas  toujours  en  rapport  avec  k  langage  de  la  popula- 
tion qui  rintroduisait  chez  elle,  a  nianqu^  produire  un 
bouleversement  general  dans  les  denominations  dont  il 
s'agit.  Et  cepeudanl,  preatjue  partout,  les  designations 
ancieuaes  onl  coDStamment  lutt^,  m^uie  avec  succes, 
centre  les  intruses-  Cette  luttcvictorieuseassez  g^n^- 
ralemeut,  des  anciennes  appellations  centre  les  nou- 
velleii,  quand  il  s'agtssait  d'une  translormation  aussi 
radicale  qu'un  ehangement  de  religion,  doit,  II  me 
eemble,  demontrer  toute  la  profondeur  de  leurs  raoinee 
dans  ie  sol  dont  elles  ont  pris  une  Ibis  possession.  Ea 
effet,  c'est  seulenient  dans  un  nombre  de  cas  fort  li- 
.mite,  que  le  com  du  saint  a  tout  k  fait  remplace  le 
com  de  lieu  pr^ciJdent.  Dans  un  nombre  de  cas  plus 
dtendu,  ces  deux  noms  se  sont  conserves  ensemble 
jusqu'a  nous.  Hors  ces  exceptions,  les  anciennes  di- 
nominations  cat  gen^ralement  r^siste. 

Ce  n'est  pas  h  I'mfluence  de  la  langue  latine  que 
Ton  peut  attribuer  les  desif^nations  primitives,  puisque 
plus  d'un  derai-siecle  avant  la  conqufite  roraaine  cette 
contree  ^^tait  couverte  de  nombreuses  tribus  d'orlgine 
diverse,  maiii  la  pluparti/au^oi*!?*.  Puur  s'enconvaincre, 
i!  suffit  de  cotisuUer  Polybe,  Tite-Uve  et  Pline.  A 
cette  race  appartenaient  les  Sardones  d'apr^s  le  pre- 
mier aiiteur,  et  les  Ilerdenses  d'aprfis  le  troisi^me,'  quoi- 
que  les  deux  tribus  fussent  dtabUes  sur  les  deux  ver- 
sants  opposes  des  Pyrenees.  Cela  s'explique  par  ua 
passage  de  Diodore  de  Sicile,  ou  il  est  dit  qii'apres 
de  longues  guerres,  Iheres  et  Celteif  s'accord^renl  mu- 
tuellement  le  droit  de  fonder  des  ^tablissements  sur 
chacun  de  leurs  territoires  respectils  que  dlvisait  la 
ligne  des  Pyrenees.    Le  poete  Silius  Italicus  dit  aussi : 

=  V.  Flin.  Hist.  Nat.  liv,  iii. 


4S8 


l'oBIGINE    SCYTHO-CIMM^RIENNE 


"  Pyrene  celsa  nimhosi  verlicis  arce,  dlvisos  Celtis  longe 
prospeciat  Iberos."  L'autorit^  de  Polybe  ^lablit  le 
me  me  fait. 

(Polybe)  .  .  .  II  ajoute  meme  expressement :  "que 
les  deux  villes  d'lJliberis  et  Rusciuo  ^talent  habits 
par  les  Gaulois.* 

Pliae  dit  textuelletnent:  "Narbonensis  provincia. . . 
agrorum  cultu  .  .  .  opum  ,  .  .  culli  postferenda,  bre- 
viterque  Italia  verius  quam  provincia."*  Puistjue  la 
Gaule  narbonnaise  etait  Tegale  de  I'ltalie  en  richeese 
et  en  culture,  c'est  probablement  qu'elle  I'^tait  aussi  en 
popuIatioQ. 

Ici  done,  les  deux  aiots  GauloU  et  Celte  sont  syno-. 
nymes,  par  opposition  k  celui  d'lb^re,  en  tant  qu'ils 
indiquent  une  m^me  nationality.  Afin  de  coDserver 
J'unitd  de  but  que  je  donne  k  moa  m^moire,  je  ne  dirai 
pas  encore  quels  sont  les^tablissementsdont  les  noms, 
de  phyaionomie  grecque  ou  ibere^  d^moutrent  une  foa- 
datioa  priiuitive  par  dea  indtvidus  appartenant  ^  ces 
peuples,  qui  vecurent  longtemps  cole-a-c6te  avec  les 
autreSj  meleSj  mais  non  confondus ;  jusqu'i  ce  que  la 
conquSte  romaine  eut  commence  la  fusion.  J'en  aurai 
['occasion  ailleurs,  en  parlant  des  races  et  de  leurs  ori- 
gines.  Cette  conlree  dut  2tre  Ires-anciennement  babi* 
tee.  J'en  donnerai  pour  preuve  un  fait  de  Tordre  gco- 
logique,  et  jc  le  meulionne  de  vim.  Vers  I'annee  1844 
ou  45,  lorsqu'on  creusait  le  nouveau  bassin  k  flol  de 
Portvendres ;  k  liuit  metres  de  profondeur  dans  le  sous- 
sol,  et  six  metres  au-dessous  du  niveau  de  la  itier»  sur 
le  roc  nu,  fut  d^couverle  une  t^te  humaine  qui  parais- 
sait  appartcnir  ti  un  individu  du  sexe  fdminiD.     II  fa«l 

8  V,  Athfin^e,  3iv.  viii,  chap,  ii.:  de  la  Gaule. 
'*  v.  riinma,  Naluralis  Histaria,  lib.  iii. 


DE    LA    LANGUE    ROMANE. 


I 
I 


I 


bien  connaitre  les  lieux,  pour  pouvoir  apprecier  ra^me 
par  evaluation  combien  est  grand  le  noinbre  des  si^cles 
qui  se  sont  ecoules,  accumules  les  uos  sur  les  autres, 
avant  que  ces  huit  metres  de  detritus  ont  recouvert,  de 
leurfi  couches  successlves,  le  cadavre  qui  fut  d'abord 
au  fond  de  Teau,  mais  qui  ne  h'y  trouvait  plus  lors  de 
la  d^couvertej  car  la  mer  avail  ete  rejet^e  plus  loin 
par  les  terres  d'alluvion  elevees  au-dessus  de  son  niveau. 
D'autre  part,  I'ejcistence  des  Celies  comme  nation  dans 
I'ouest  de  I'Europe  est  dej&,  conslat^e  au  cinqui^me 
siecle  avant  notre  fere  par  le  t^niotgnage  d'Herodote^ 
de  mfime  que  celle  des  Jheres. 

Sur  la  constitution  de  la  langue  romane,  nous  ne 
connaissons  pas  de  document  authentique  anlerieur  de 
date  h  celui  que  Ton  trouve  iraprimd  dans  la  collec- 
tion Bouquet.^  C'est  le  serment  mutuel  prete'  I'an 
S4'2  ^  Argeutaria.  maintenant  Strasbourg,  par  les  deux 
fils  de  Louis  le  D^bonnaire  d'une  part,  et  le  peuple  de 
I'autre.  Au-dela  de  cette  dpoque^nous  en  sommes  r^- 
duits  a  glaner,  comme  je  le  fajs  ici. 

Strabon  mentionne  comme  employes  de  son  temps 
par  les  Ib^res  deux  mots  qui  se  trouvent  encore  dans 
le  Catalan,  quoique  Tacception  que  cet  auteur  leur  at- 
tribue  ait  disparu.  lis  portaient.  dit  cet  auteur,  dee 
boucliers  qu'ils  appelaientpe/s,  Cc  mot  signifie  encore 
peaax  en  mouillant  17,  et  poils  en  la  laissant  simple  ; 
c'est-i-dire  que  Strabon  a  pris  un  mot  generique  dans 
un  sens  special.  Leur  sol,  d'apr^s  lui,  ^tait  ravage  par 
la  multiplication  constante  des  lapins,  qu'iis  appelaient 
liberides.  II  paraitrait  que  le  mot  coml^  en  Latin  cu- 
niculuSi  ne  leur  etait  pas  encore  connu  ;  et  que  pour 
eux,  le  lapin  n'etait  qu'un  petit  lievre,  niaintenant  lle^ 
*  V.  vol.  vji.  p.  35. 


490 


LORIGI.NE    SClTHO-ClMMilllENNE 


brete,  derive  de  llebre,  qui  produit  aussi  Uebrasse,  on 
gros  liijvre.  Cesar  dans  ses  Commentaires  mentionne 
environ  65  noms  de  Gaulois,  qui  ofiVent  presque  tous 
ua  sens  dans  la  laague  rouiane  actueUei  chacuu  peut 
verifier  cette  concordance  (a  la  fin). 

Le  temoignage  de  plasieurs  auteurs,  soit  historiens, 
geographes,  etc.,  latins  et  grecs,  dont  les  meations  re- 
montent  jusqu'a  I'annee  218  avaul  noire  ere,  alteste 
I'existence  d'une  foule  de  tribus,  ou  populations,  qui 
portaient  alors  des  noms  encore  exislaiits  aujourd'hui, 
Mais,  pour  le  comprendre,  il  est  necessaire  d'observer . 
que  ces  auteurs  ne  se  sent  fait  faute  de  deSgurer  les 
noms  tel*  que  les  disaient  les  naturcls  du  pays  dajis 
leur  langage  indigene,  afin  de  leur  donner  la  physio- 
noraie  qu'exigeaient  les  rtVles  s^vferes  de  leur  idiotne, 
soit  grec  ou  latin,  Je  me  dispenserai  de  citer,  parce 
que  je  n'aurais  ici  que  rembarras  du  choix.  Ainsi, 
lorsqu'on  veul  r^tablir  un  nom  de  lieu  dans  son  Jnle- 
grite  primitive,  on  )'  reussit  generalenient,  si  Ton  rto- 
tre  dans  Tesprit  du  dialecte  local ;  cette  metliode,  que 
je  suis  conKtamnient,  me  conduit  k  de  bons  r>^sultals. 

Puisque  des  appellations  telles  que:  Cerftuni,  Cm- 
auarani,  BargusU,  jErenogi,  (Cerdans,  Conserans,  Ber^* 
dans,  Arenosos,)  etc.,  ccmposees  de  plusieurs  syllabes, 
soot  parvenues  jusqu'a  nous  telies  quelles,  quoique 
existant  plusieurs  siecles  avant  notre  ere ;  u  plus  lorte 
raisoo  il  doit  en  etre  ainsi  pour  des  villas  monosylla- 
biques  dont  Vhumilite  ^tait  une  garantie  contre  tout 
bouleversement,  resultat  d'une  attaque  victorieuse  apr^s 
lutle.  La  principale  difficulte  consiste  k  s^parer  d'a- 
bord  les  designalions  d'origine  ceHique  ou  gauloxse  des 
Ib&res.  Elle  n'est  pas  petite,  j'en  conviens  C'esl  la 
tache  que  je    me  suis  imposde  dans  ce  menioire,  ii 


BE    LA    LASGUE    ROMANE, 


401 


I 
I 


Vaide  d'une  serie  d'op^rations  et  recherches  qui  se  lient 
entr'eltes. 

J'ai  d'abord  reconnu  dans  la  langue  catatane,  qui 
n'est,  comme  personne  ne  I'igaore,  qu'un  dialecte  du 
Roman,  I'existence  de  syconymes  rdels,  complels,  dont 
la  forme  est  si  differente  qu'elle  accuse  aussi  une  di- 
versite  d'origine,  i\  premiere  vue.  Je  puis  citer  en  pre- 
mier lieu  les  deux  mots  ^rena  et  sowrrff,  qui  signitient 
^galement  mble.  On  voit  blen  qu'il  ne  peut  exister  aU' 
cune  filiation  entr'eux.  Dans  raon  opinion,  ils  ont  send 
a  designer  deux  tribus  d'origine,  ou  pour  niieux  dire, 
de  constitution  differente,  etablies  sur  le  littoral  ou  les 
sables  de  la  Mdditerrande.  La  premiere,  Ib^re,  h  ce  que 
je  crois,  et  connue  sous  le  nom  d^^renosos,  habitait, 
au  pied  clu  versant  hisparique  des  Pyr^nees-Orientales 
pres  de  la  riviere  jErejia,  les  deux  villages  encore  ap- 
peles  Arenis  de  mar  et  Arenis  de  munt.  La  deuxi&me, 
connue  sous  le  nom  de  SouTredans  et  d'origine  cel- 
tiquCi  habitait  le  versant  gaulois  de  ces  m^raes  mon- 
tagnes.*  Poniponius  Mela  Tappelle  Sordones,  tandia 
que  PlJne  lui  donne  le  nom  de  Sardones  et  Surdaones. 
Cette  derniL-re  traduction  est  celle  qui  se  rapproche 
k  plus  de  son  nom  r^el.  II  a  disparu  comme  divi- 
sion  politique  territoriale,  mais  il  existe  encore  dans  la 
langue  et  signifie  les  habitants  des  sables,  tout  comme 
le  synonyme  jiHrenosos.  Cette  derniere  tribu  est  men- 
tionnee  dans  Polybe  comrae  Tune  de  celles  qui  furent 
soumiaes  par  les  Carthaginois  lors  de  leur  passage  sous 
les  ordres  d'Annibal.  On  ne  peut  done  supposer  que 
les  Romains  aient  introduit  chez  elle  le  mot  arena,  qui 
est  latin  aussi,  puisqu'ils  n'avaient  pas  encore  conquis 
cette  contr^e.     Je  ferai  remarquer,  en  passant^  la  dif- 

'  V.  Carte  n*  4134.  portef.  n"  189,  Bibl.  Imp.  Paris. 


492 


l'oRIGINE   SCYTHO-ClMMgaiENNE 


f^rence  des  deux  termrnaisona,  Tune  en  arts,  et  Tautre 
en  OS;  et  j'aurai  plus  tard  I'occasion  rie  demontrer 
que  la  premiere  doit  appartenir  i  une  tribu  gauloise, 
lorsque  la  secontle  caracterise  une  origine  hispanique, 
Un  passage  du  poete  latin  Festus  Avienus,  qui  ecri- 
vait  vers  le  commencement  du  5'  sifecle  de  notre  ^re, 
sa  descriptiou  de  la  cote  maritime,  vient  k  Tappui  de 
mon  opinion.  Je  crois  devoir  le  citer  textuellement  a 
cause  des  ^claircissementa  qu'il  donne  ;  le  voici : 

"  Post  Pyrenicum  jugum 
Jacent  arense  littoria  Cyneticif 
Easque  late  aulcat  amriis  ErOsehinuSj 
Hoc  Sordicetue,  ut  diximus,  glcbae  solum  est. 
Stagnum  hie,  palusque  quiiipc  difi'use  patct, 
Et  iiicolaa  istam  Fordlcen''  cognominaatj 
PncterquOj  vasti  gurgitis  crepulas  aquas; 
Nam  propter  aniplum  marginis  laxse  ambitum 
Ventis  turaescit  saejje  percellcntibus. 
Stagno  hoc  ab  ipso  Sordus  aniuia  efflnit."* 

Ce  que  I'auteur  appelleLjfus  C^ncticum  ne  peut  etre 
que  la  paitie  du  littoral  connue  encore  sous  le  nom  de 
pSage  de  Cnnet,  d'apr^s  le  village  actuel,  qui  evideni- 
ment  esistait  de  son  temps,  et  peut-^tre  meme  deja 
du  temps  d'Herodote,  puivant  deux  passages  de  eel 
auteur.  (V.  IJv,  ii.  3U,  et  liv.  iv.  49,)  Avienus  cons- 
tate parfaitement  la  nature  sablonneuse  du  sol  habito 
par  les  Sardones  maiitimes,  le  cours  capricieux  de  la 
Tet,  qui  le  ravage  en  tout  sens,  et  I'etaug  qu'elle  forme, 
dans  son  cours  h  defaut  de  lit  regulier,  jusqu'a  « 

'  Faute  d'impression  pour  Surtficen, 

^  V.  Bibl.   Imp.  opera  quie  extnnt;   Matntt,  1634 ;  in-  4",  p.  36, 
t.  558  ;  orse  maritime  descriptio. 


DE    LA    LANflUE    ROMANE. 


493 


I 


I 


I 

I 


qu'elte  en  trouve.  II  n'oublie  pas  d'observer  que  les 
habitants  donnent  k  cette  nature  de  sol  le  nom  cle  $or- 
dicen ;  c'est  ains]  qu'il  traduit  le  mot  Catalan  sourredes; 
en  Frangais,  terrains  mhlonneuw,  qu'ils  soient,  ou  non, 
couverts  d'une  nappe  d'eau  superticielle.  II  ri5?ultei*ait 
aussi  du  teste  pr^^cite  que  I'etang  form^  par  les  eaux 
de  la  Tet,  que  L'auteur  appelle  Amnis  Hoschinm  et  Sor- 
dus,  aurait  et^  aussi  diSsign^  sous  le  metne  nom  de 
Sordicen,  c'e5t-^-dire  en  langue  vulgaire  I'^lang  des 
Sourredes.  On  aurait  beau  le  chercher  maintenarit,  11 
n'existe  plus ;  quoiqu'il  soit  bien  constate  qu'il  se 
trouvait  sur  la  ligne  parcourue  par  la  rivi^re^  il  serait 
impossible  de  determiner  sa  position,  m^me  approxi- 
mativement,  si  un  monument  du  12^  si&cle  ne  venait 
nous  eclairer  a  ce  sujet. 

Gerard  II,  comte  du  Roussillon,  dlt  dans  son  testa- 
ment: "  Relinquo  Hospitalartis  campum  de  Stagno  qui 
est  in  adjacentia  S*^'  Joannis  Perpiniani.  de  quo  ejeci 
aquam  ;""  plus  bas,  il  dispose  de  la  manii:re  suivante  : 
"  Relinquo  Ecclesife  S"  Johannis  Perpiniani  agrarium 
illorum  hortorum  qui  sunt  k  Canotiica,  juxta  return 
qui  vadit  ad  molendina  nova."  On  doit  conclure  de 
cea  deux  passages  que  le  Sordicen  stagnura  se  trouvait 
sous  les  murs  meme  de  la  ville  actuelle  de  Perpig^nan, 
et  sur  uu  sol  occupiS  maintenant  par  des  jardins,  que 
de  plus  sa  disparution  est  due  h.  I'administratton  bien- 
faisante  de  Gerard  II,  qui  I'a  fait  dessecher.  II  ne 
faudrait  pas,  quoique  d'accord  avee  la  nouvelle  carte 
des  Gaules,'*^  le  supposer  sur  Templacement  de  iV'tang 

'  Marca  His^iauica,  p.  1360. 

i*  V,  CartB  eprcuve  des  Gaulea  sous  le  PtroccniBiiIat  de  C^s&r,  drea- 
•^  par  la  ComraiHsioTi  Impi^riale,  Pari?. 


494 


t/oRIGIN^    BCTTHO-CIMMfiRlENNE 


caliall 

rossi 

court!  jc 

serrse 

puig 

serrat 

portous. 

coU 

gous 

ca 

roc 

pera 

r 


actuel  de  Saint-Na2aire,  ou,  d'apres  la  disposition  matL* 
rielle  des  lieux,  iejiumen  Roschinus  u'a  jamais  pu  passer 
k  I'cpoque  d'Avienus. 

II  est  encore  une  foule  d'autres  sytionymes  daas  le 
Catalan^  tela  que : 

(en  Fran^ais)     clieTal 

jj  CT^te  d'uiie  hauteur 

pic 
„  detile     entre    dcax 

hauteurs 
„  cliiea 

„  caillou,  etc.  etc. 

Accouplos  ainsi,  tous  ces  syo,on3'mes  accusent  une  dua- 
lite  d'origine.  Mais,  comment  determiner  avec  certi- 
tude cette  origine  premiere?  c'est  1^  le  probleme  dont 
j'ai  du  longtemps  chercher  la  solution.  Je  me  suis  dit 
qu'il  fallait  commencer  par  degager  Tun  des  deux  ele- 
ments sans  me  prisoccuper  dn  deuxieme,  et  aller  a  la 
recherche  des  moyens  propres  k  d^couvrir  et  eoiistater 
la  source  de  I'L-lement  celte  ou  gauloix,  en  negllgeact 
I'^l^ment  ftispanique. 

II  a  et^  dit  deyk  que  la  signification  de  tous  les  aoins 
de  lieu  monosyliabiques  n'est  pas  encore  connue.  C'esl 
en  interrogeant  mainte  et  mainte  fois  les  chartes  ma- 
nuscrites  ou  imprimees  des  vieax  cartulalres  du  pays, 
pour  y  chercher  quelque  nouveau  trait  de  iumiere,  que 
je  suis  parvenu  a  faire  jaiUir  retincetle  electrique  qui 
devait  m'^clairer. 

Le  nom  de  Tor  se  trouve  port^  par  divers  etablisse- 
ments  sttu^s  sur  la  cote  maritime  aussi  bien  que  sur 
les  hauteurs  des  Pyrenees.  Mais,  ni  dans  la  lan^e 
vulgaire,  ni  dans  les  diction naires,  il  n'est  possible  de 
trouver  sa  signification,  autant  qu'on  le  pronouce  avec 


DB    LA    LANGDE    R0MAN£1. 


495 


I 


I 


un  r  seulement,  et  m^me  avec  douceur.  C'est  une 
acception  qui  a  disparu  tout  a.  i'ait.  Deux  cbartes  prjn- 
cipalement,  i'une  de  I'an  1153  de  notre  ere,  Tautre  de 
I'an  1048,  ddmoDtrent  quele  mot  tor  signifie:  emplace- 
ment bdtij  ou  a  hdtir. 

Void  les  termes  de  la  premiere:  "  Ego  Raimundus 
de  Pelrilonis,  qui  vocor  de  Bares,  .  .  .  dono  Domino 
Deo,  et  Saiicta  Maria  de  Aspirano  et  Snncto  Laurentio 
Dopet  et  Araallo  Seniofredi  ejusdetn  loci  prions  el 
suis  successoribus  .  .  ,  unum  tor  de  terra  sicuti  est  ter- 
minatus,  ad  faciendum  maiisum  vel  quidquid  voluerit 
facere  .  .  .  ut  sit  fraiicum  et  liberuni  alodium.""  Les 
quatre  confronts  ordinairea  y  sont  nientioainJfi.  On 
pourrait  croire  qu'il  s'egit  tci  d'une  meaure  agraire  de- 
terminee,  si  la  deuxlSine  charle  ne  doniiaiL,  par  sa  te- 
neur,  la  sl^nidcation  exacte  du  mot.  £n  voici  la  dis- 
position:  "Ego  Bligario  Olibano  et  uxor .  .  .  vendi- 
tores  vel  excbamiatores  sumus  Deo  et  SaQcti  Michaeli 
Cenobii  que  dicuut  Coxano  et  tibi  Miro  gratia  Dei 
Abba  et  cuncta  cungregatione  .  .  .  alodem  nostrum 
proprium  .  ,  .  raansos  cum  ipso  orto  et  eura  ipsos  ar- 
bores  fructuosos  vel  infructuosos,  et  cum  ipeos  valloa 
qui  ia  circuitu  ejus  sunt,  et  cum  ipsos  toroSi  et  cum  ip- 
Bas  terras,  et  cum  ipaas  vineas."'^  Comme  on  le  voit,> 
ce  diplome  enuui^re  les  uianoire,  avec  le  jardin,  ses 
arbres,  les  murs  d'enceinte  et  I'emplacement  &ur  le- 
quel  se  trouve  le  tout ;  plus,  ensuite,  les  autres  terres 
et  vignea  non-entourees  de  muraille. 

Le  monosyllabe  ker  appartient  a  divers  lieuK  dans 
lea  Pyrenees-Oriental es  habitfe  ou  non-babites.  Sa 
fiignification  est  aussi  corapMtement  perdue  que  celle 

"  V.  Mhdub.  Bjb!.  Imp,  Col,  Mgreau,  ml.  btvi.  p.  2!i!l. 
'2  V.  ibid,  vol.  xxiv.  p-  65. 
VOL.  VII.  2  J, 


496  l'origine  8cttho-cihh£ribnnb 

de  tor ;  elle  r^pond  au  mot  rocker.  Je  suis  parvenu  k 
la  faire  revivre  k  I'aide  de  quelques  textes  qui  Bont 
mentionn^  ci-apr^s : 

l"  Une  bulle  papale  de  I'an  985  determine  ]es  limites 
du  territoire  appartenant  k  I'abbaye  de  Saint-Michel 
de  Cuix^,  dans  le  comt^  du  Conflent,  d'apr^s  la  ligne 
suivante  :  "  deinde  tenditur  usque  ad  rupem  sive  cAe- 
rum  Clarinti."^*  Une  deuxi^me  bulle  ayant  le  m^e 
objet,  de  Tan  1011,  contient  ce  qui  suit:  "  et  a  me- 
ridiano  fronte  montis  Canigonis  descendit  per  serrani 
puigii  Aquiloni  ad  rupem  vulgo  nuncupatam  cA«nini 
Clerinti."'* 

2°  11  existe  surle  territoire  d'Argelfes-sur-mer,  pres  ia 
tour  de  la  Massane,  un  rocfaer  g^neralement  appele  ea 
langue  vulgaire :  La  roca  del  corh,  c'est-i-dire  la  rocke 
du  corbeau.  Deux  dipl6nies,  I'un  de  I'an  982,  I'autre 
de  Tan  1293,  le  mentionnent,  le  premier  par  les  mots  la- 
tins, Ourco,  Curbo;  le  second  par  le  mot  de  la  langue 
vulgaire,  Quercorb,  denomination  qui  a  disparuJ*  On 
voyait  encore  au  moyen-age  un  chateau  de  ce  dernier 
nom  dans  le  territoire  de  Srats  de  Mollb,  objet  d'une 
transaction  entre  I'Abb^  de  Sainte-Marie  d'Arles  et  la 
Dame  de  Corsavi ;  Tan  1197,  il  est  appeM:  Mansus 
ou  honor  de  Kero-Curvo,  et  Castrum  Corbi  dans  une 
charte  de  832,  ou  Ton  voit  qu'il  tirait  son  nom  du  rocher 
au  pied  duquel  il  etait  construit.  Cela  r^ulte  du  texte 
suivant:  "Usque  ad  ipsam  rogam  (rocam)  quod  est 
super  Castrum  Corbi. "'^  On  n'ignore  pas  le  r6Ie  que 
jouait  le  corbeau  dans  les  divinations  des  anciens. 

"  V.  MarCB  Hispanica,  p.  934. 

"  V.  ibid.  p.  978. 

'*  V.  ibid.  p.  926,  et  Col.  Mor.  vol.  ccxii. 

'6  V.  Marca  Hisp.  pp.  769  et  1387. 


SB   LA    LANGUE    ROMANK.  497 

S**  Dans  le  territoire  de  BaDyols-sur-mer  il  existe 
iin  rocber  ^leve  supportant  une  tour  en  ruines,  ant^- 
rieure  an  lO*  siecle.  Ce  point  est  encore  appel^  Ker 
roig,  que  Ton  traduJt  kero  rubio  dans  les  monuments  du 
moyen-ige.  Est-ce  parce  qu'k  I'heure  de  midi,  le  so- 
leil  se  troave  d'aplomb  snr  le  rocher,  qui  pardt  range? 
Ce  n'est  pas  impossible ;  probabletnent  la  superstition 
a'^it  empar^  de  cette  coincidence. 

On  trouve  encore  des  lieux  appel^s  dans  les  vieux 
cartulaires  :  Keros  Alhos,  Ker  Angle,  Ker  Monnoa,  Ker 
Ononino,  Ker  Foradat,"  Ker  Bruno,  etc.*^  Dans  les 
delimitations  de  territoire,  les  lignes  de  rochers  qui 
fonnent  des  divisions  naturelles  sont  appelees  tant6t 
rupes  et  tantdt  keras.  Je  crois  suffisantes  ces  demons- 
trations, tendant  k  -etablir  la  signi£cation,  anterieure- 
ment  perdue,  des  deux  monosyllabes  tor  et  ker. 

Par  ces  deux  mots  j'ai  pris  Textr^mit^  du  fil  con- 
ducteur  qui  m'a  dirige  vers  le  pays  anciennement  con- 
nu  sous  le  nom  de  Kersoneae  Torique,  et  habits  par  une 
tribu  scythe :  les  Tauri,  d'aprds  H^rodote ;  sur  I'auto- 
rit^  duquel  on  admet  que  les  Cimmeriens  poss^daient 
avant  eux  cette  p^ninsule,  maintemint  la  Crimee. 

J'ai  interrog^,  sur  cette  contr^e,  la  carte  allemande 
dress^  par  F.  Handtke,'"  d'apres  la  grande  carte 
russe  en  10  feuilles  du  g^n^ral  d'^tat-major  Muckin,  et 
sur  le  guide  dans  la  Mer-Noire,  par  Corr^rd."  J'ai 
contr61^  mon  travail  k  I'aide  de  la  carte  anglaise  de 
Thomas  Best  Jervis,^'  major  du  genie,  et  celle  d'Andri- 

•'  V.  Marcs  Hisp.  p.  879  et  suiv.  "  y.  p.  837. 

''  V.  Bibl.  Imp.  dep.  des  CBrtea  G^ogr. :  Speeicdkarte  der  Ktymm; 
Glogau,  1854. 
»  V.  ibid,  an  1816. 
21  V.  ibid,  an  1817. 

2l2 


493 


l'oRIGFNE    SCTTnO-CIMM^TtlENNE 


veau  Goujon."  Comme  ce  dernier  cartograpbe  s'est 
etendu  jusqu'aux  cotes  de  la  ]\Ier  d'Azoft'  et  parti*  de 
la  Mer-Noire,  je  me  suis  servi  de  son  oeuvre,  pour  ces 
deux  portioQS  de  lerritoire.^ 

Continuant  le  syst^me  dont  I'applicaUon  m'avait 
reussi  dans  la  region  des  extremes  Pyr^n^es-Orientales, 
j'ai  relev^  un  k  un  tous  les  noma  de  lieu  qui  ofi'raient 
une  signification  en  rapport  avec  la  laogue  romane, 
et  neglige  ceux  dont  la  physionomie  indiquait  I'origine 
allemande,  grecque  et  russe.  II  convient  de  faire  ob- 
servei'  que  plusieurs  noms  sont  composes  d'un  radical 
romau  et  une  terminaisoa  que  I'on  peut  attribuer  k  la 
fois  h  cet  idioroe  ou  au  liusse.  Dans  le  doute,  je  dois 
signaler  cet  incident. 

Le  nombre  des  noms  de  lieu  releves,  tant  sur  la 
p^ninsule  cimmcrrenne  que  sur  les  cotes  de  la  Mer 
d'Azoff  et  de  la  Mer-Noire,  est  de  deux  raille  environ. 
L'eraploi  par  I'AIlemand  Haudtke,  de  Forthographe 
particuli&re  k  sa  langue  dans  la  nomenclature  de  sa 
carte,  m'aurait  offert  de  grandes  difficuU<'s,  si  je  ne 
m'^lais  deja  exerc^  k  lire  une  Bible  imprimi'^e  en  langue 
romane,  mais  orthographe  germaine,  que  je  decouvris 
dans  le  canton  Suisse  des  Grisons,  ou  I'idiome  Umousin 
est  usite.  Cet  exercice  prdilable,  joint  a  quelque  con- 
naissance  de  I'AIlemand,  ont  facility  mon  travail.  II 
consiste  ^  ne  considerer  que  la  valeur  plion^tique  de 
chaque  nom  de  lieu  sans  faire  attention  &  rorthograpbe. 
dans  sa  transcription,  qui  a  lieu  d*apr^s  les  priocipes 
de  Vorthographe  romane  et  de  la  valeur  ideographique 

M  V,  ibid,  m  I&56. 

^  Je  dois  un  tribut  de  remerciraents  au  savant  M.  Jomard,  qiu 
avec  M.  CortaTnbert  ni'ocit  fourni  ks  plus  grandes  fecililfa  dans  tail 
ce  qui  coTicerne  mon  Irnyail. 


DE    LA    LANGL'E    UOMANE. 


49g 


qu'il  ofire  dans  eetidiome.  A  cott;  de  cette  transcrip- 
tion j'ai  port^  la  traduction  en  Fraii^ais.  Ici  se  pi'^- 
sente  tout  naturellement  la  question  Buivante:  est-il 
possible  de  prouver  que  les  diverses  combinaisons  pho- 
netiques  de  ces  noms  de  lieu,  supposes  scytho-elmm^- 
riens  d'origine,  ont  poss^d^  (org  de  leur  determination. 
une  valeur  id^ologique  tout  h.  fait,  ou  du  moins  quasi- 
identique  avec  celle  que  je  Leur  allribue  dans  la  langue 
catalane?  Cette  question  trouvera  sa  r^ponae  dans  les 
demonstrations  que  contiendra  la  suite  de  mon  m6> 

I  moire.     J'ai  choisi  cet  idJome  comme  moyen  d'inter- 
pretation,  parce  qu'il  me  parait  avoir  conserve  ses  ac- 
ceptions  primitives  beaucoup  mieux  que  lea  dialectes 
proven<;al,  languedocien^  Hniousin  ou  autres, 
Je  classifie  par  mots  a  une,  deux,  trois  syllabes  et 
ainsi  de  suite.     Je  puis  deji  mettre  sous  les  yeux  de 
_  mes  lecteurs  environ  700  noms  contenus  dana  ces  trois 
P  premieres  categories,  choisis  presque  tous  dans  les  li- 
mites  de  la  presqu'iie  cimmerienne.  Je  n'ai  ajout^,  de  la 
carte  a  ortliographe  fran^aise  d'Andriveau  Goujon,  que 
(les  raonosyliabes  en  fort  petit  nonibre  et  des  noms 
de  riviore,  le  tout  extrail  des  cotes  de  la  Mer  d'AzofF 
P  et  de  la  Mer-Noire  entre  la  Crimee  et  les  bouches  du 
Panube,  que  je  n'ai  pas  d^passees. 

til  convient  de  reinarquer  d'abord  que  toute  cette  re- 
gion n'offre  qn'un  nombre  de  lieux  monoayllabiques 
bien  restreint  comparativement  &  celle  des  Pyrenees. 

I -II  ne  s'elfeve  qu'a  trente  environ  ;  lorsque  nous  avona 
-d'aulre  part  un  chiffre  presque  quintuple,  comment 
J'expliquer  ? 
Je  conjecture  que  lorsque  les  Scytlw-Clmiiwriens  emi- 
pgr^rent  vers  I'Europe  occidentale,  ils  vivaient  encore  h 
r^tat  nomade  sur  la  peninsule  et  aux  environs  j  se  ser- 


5QQ 


l'oHIGINK    SCYTllO-CIMM^RIttNNE 


vant  d'un  langage  encore  tr^s-imparfait,  compost  pria- 
cipalement  de  monosyllabes.  Les  emigrants,  parvenus 
dans  la  region  des  Pyrenees,  durent  s  eparpiUer  sur  le 
sol,  choisjr  leurs  Ikux  de  residence  par  groupcs,  s'y 
fixer  et  les  denomtner,  k  une  ^poque  anterieure  k  celle 
ou  leurs  compatriotes  restus  sur  le  sol  de  I'Europe 
orientnle  ou  de  I'Asie  firent  plus  tard  ctirame  eux. 
Alors,  leur  langage,  qui  dans  un  long  intervalle  sVtalt 
developpe,  comprenalt  di^ja  tous  les  poly&yllabiquea 
qui  furent  attributes  a  leurs  etabiissements,  de  foil' 
dation  moins  ancienne  que  ceux  de  FEurope  occiden- 
tale.  Neanmoins,  les  deux  peuples,  raaintenaat  divises, 
dt^veloppcreiit  leur  idiotne  parallSlement,  et  suivant 
des  combinaiaons  idoologiqties  et  id^ograpliiques  a 
peu  pr^s  semblables,  parce  que  le  sens  de  leurs  ra- 
dicaux  priraitifs  dtait  deja  determine  torsqu'ils  se  se* 
pari^reut. 

Ceci  est  fort  hypothetique,  j'en  conviens,  et  ne  peul 
etre  offert  qu'n  titre  de  conjecture  tendant  a  expliqucr 
un  fait  qui  parait  anormal  a  premiere  vue. 

En  comparant  entre  elles  deux  listcs  de  nionosylla- 
biques  sL  iuegales  en  nonibre,  I'une  de  la  region  cm- 
vieriennc,  I'autre  des  Pyrenees,  on  constatera  que  qnel- 
ques-uns  de  ces  name  de  lieu  se  trouvent  en,  meine 
temps  sur  les  deux  nomenclatures.  Ce  sont  A>r,  Corf, 
Zlcs,  Cos,  Boix,  Aij; ;  mots  qui  en  Catalan  si^nitient 
roc,  cour,  diligent^  corps,  huts,  torche.  Nous  trouve- 
rons  presquctous  les  autres  dans  les  combinaisons  po- 
lyayllabiques,  Ainsi  la  nomenclature  des  noms  de  lieu 
a  deux  eyllabes  situ^s  dans  les  liniiles  de  la  peninsule. 
qui  s'^teve  a  plus  de  300,  conLient  25  autres  monosyl- 
labiques  des  Pyrenees  plusieurs  fois  combin<5s  dans  ces 
300  mots.     La  nomenclature  des  noms  de  lieu  k  trois 


DK   LA    LANOUE    ROUANK.  501 

syllabes,  qui  ddpasse  le  chiffre  de  350,  contient  3d  mo- 
nosyllabiques  de  la  meme  liste  des  Pyren^s  diverses 
fois  et  diversement  combines.  Ainsi,  sur  un  total  en 
nombres  ronds  de  700  noma  de  lieu  cimm^riens,  k  une, 
deux  et  trois  syllabes,  nous  trouTerions  60  monosyU 
labiques  pyr^neens,  c'est-a-dire  la  moiti^  environ  de 
ceux  que  nous  connaissons;  cela  constitue  une  propor- 
tion entre  le  11"  et  le  12".  £Ile  me  paratt  suffisante 
pour  ^tablir  une  des  bases  de  men  opinion.  II  ne  faut 
pas  perdre  de  vue  qu'il  me  reste  encore  a  operer  sur 
les  mots  a  4  syllabes  et  au-dessus,  au  nombre  d'environ 
1300 ;  je  m'en  occuperai  avec  d'autres  questions  dans 
la  2"  partie  de  mon  memoire.  Comme  quelques-uns 
constituent,  pour  ainsi  dire,  des  phrases  enti^res,  tela 
que  celui-ci  par  exemple,  aski-bal-a^bak-al,  que  je  tra- 
duis:  "icl  le  chemin  conduit  au  coteau  eleve  oppos^ 
au  soleil,"  je  ne  m'en  occupe  pas  encore. 

Je  vals  d'abord  chercher  £i  ^tablir  le  sens,  racception 
usuelle  parmi  les  dmmeriens  des  mots  qu'ils  appli- 
querent  a  leurs  etablissements  et  autres  lieux  habites 
ou  noQ-habites. 

Parmi  les  moyens  a  employer,  il  en  est  un  qui  serait 
peremptoire  et  dont  rapplication  pourra  trancher  la 
difficulte  si  des  doutes  s'elevent.  C'est  un  transport 
sur  les  lieux,  qui  seraient  interroges  du  point  de  vue 
n^cessaire,  c'est-a-dire  le  rapport  entre  les  designations 
et  les  circonstances  locales  de  position  ou  autres. 

J'ai  pense  que  Temploi  de  ce  moyen  n'^tait  pas  in- 
dispensable, ayant  trouv^  dans  les  cartes  geographiques 
des  ei^ents  qui  suffisaient  k  ma  demonstration.  Ainsi, 
la  nomenclature  des  cours  d'eau  qui  d^passe  le  nombre 
de  100,  offre  des  significations  qui  toutes  r^pondent,  a 
leur  forme,  a  leur  nature,  a  leurs  d^fauts  ou  qualit^s. 


503 


l'ouiuine  scytiio-cimmSriennk 


si  on  les  traduit  en  langue  romane.  Par  exetnpIe^iiTic 
riviere  qui  porte  I'ancien  nom  de  la  Crimee»  le  AVrsfl, 
que  le  cartographe  Handtke  a  ecrit  Karassu,  se  com- 
pose de  deux  branclieSj  Tune  droite  et  I'autre  torlu- 
euse ;  cetle  derni&re  est  appelee  Kutschu}d%  mot  qui  se 
retrouve  sur  la  carte,  toutes  les  fois  qu'il  s'agit  d'une 
ligne  coud^e.  Or  Coutsout  signifie  coudr,  en  Catalan. 
L'autre  porte  le  nom  de  Bt'ioui;  toujours  donne  aux 
lignes  droites,  et  se  compose  de  deux  mots:  be,  qui 
signifie  bien,  eijoufrey  qui  signifie  il  perche  ou  se  tient 
droit,  en  parlant  des  volaliles  de  basse  cour.  Sv  trouve 
]e  Tech,  cours  d'eau  des  Sardones,  sous  la  forme  get- 
tnaine  TVi/ff ;  \e  Ssalgirr  et  ]e  Malssalyirr,  qui  sigiil- 
fient,  le  premier,  route  du  limon,  el  le  second,  rottie  dn 
mauvais  Union;  le  SHlia,  c'est  clarifier  ;  le  Chatnm. 
couler  comme  un  robinet ;  le  Boghas,  amas  de  plan- 
tes  marecflgeuses ;  le  Tschujuntschu,  sous  le  confluent ; 
le  Beschterekk,  tient  Bon  lit  has;  le  Montajiai,  mon- 
tagnard  ;  le  Tunas,  emporte ;  I'Aschil,  agile  ;  le  Ss^i- 
basch,  s'abaisse ;  le  Nackitschewantschokakk,  qui  cons- 
titue  a  lui  seul  une  phrase:  sitot  ne,  sitot  epuis^,  etc. 
etc. 

Si  Ton  quitte  la  p^ninsule  cimm^rienne,  pour  par- 
courir  la  cote  de  la  Mer  d'Azoff  et  celle  de  la  Mer- 
Noire  jusqu'au  Danube,  en  compagnie  du  cartograpbe 
francais  Andriveau  Goujon,  on  trouvera  entr'autres 
cours  d'eau  les  suivants:  le  Tchetachil,  robinet  agile; 
le  Donioiidi,  dangereux  lit  ;  VAnichokTaA;  ensabl^;  le 
Mastchcnak\  empoisonne  ;  le  Podijalna,  patte  de  galli- 
nacee,  dont  il  affecte  icellement  la  forme;  le  Podpai- 
na,  qui  affecte  celle  d'une  pelle ;  le  Koud/ikho,  queue 
de  chien  ^  I'arret ;  le  Noiov,  nez  aquilin  ;  le  Scatom- 
to'io,  flaques  ^parpillees,  qui  se  trourent   ^  son  era- 


DE    LA    LANGUE    ROUANE. 


503 


I 


I 


I 


I 


boucliure ;  YIngotil,  qui  avale.  II  existe  encore  ua 
■systt^me  de  denomination  appliqu^  aux  cours  d'eau 
comme  aux  villages  volsins ;  c'est  de  les  distinguer 
entr'eux,  lorsqu'ils  porteat  le  meme  nom,  par  une  bdne- 
,  diction  donn^e  au  premier,  tandjs  que  le  second  re^oit 
une  malediction,  ou  tout  autre  voeu  qui  se  reunit  au 
nom  priniitif.  II  y  a  lieu  d'observer  que  la  malediction 
est  encore  ici  exactenieiit  celle  de  la  langue  catalane, 
Malehit  et  Malum;   la  benediction  a  tr^s-pcu   vari^, 

■  Elle  se  compose  du  monosyllabe  hel  ou  hot,  par  op- 
position k  mal  «uivi  de  la  m^me  terminaison,  tantot 
ahi,  tantot  o/a  ;  en  Catalan,  qu'il  ait.  Ainsi,  un  cours 
d'eau  s'appelle,  Outliouka.  En  Catalan  ]e  mot  oullou 
signifie  source;  il  est  termine  par  le  monosyllahe  fro, 
qui  est  russe,  et  se  rencontre  souvent.  Tout  pr^a  se 
trouvent  le  bJni  et  le  maudit  Outliouka;  le  premier 
precede  du  mot  Bolchdia,  et  le  second  du  mot  Malam. 
On  rencontre  encore  le  Malliadjalik  aupr^s  du  Bola- 
djalik ;  le  Srednii  KcuialnU',  pr^s  du  Malii  KoHktlnik, 
Ici  on  ne  donne  pas  la  bc-Qcdictlon  au  premier,  mais  on 
lui  souhaite  de  se  retenir. 

II  existe  un  village  compose  sans  doute  de  gens  trop 

■  remuants  qu'on  n'a  pas  maudits  plus  que  benis.  On 
s'est  contentcde  leur  souhaiter  plus  de  tranquiUitc,  par 
les  mots  Star  Aia,  qui  viennent  apri-s  Chveds  Kaia,  nora 
du  village,  (|ui  paiait  etre  une  colonie  de  Suedois. 

Je  pas&e  maintenant  h  la  nomenclature  des  caps  et 
cotes  raaritimes  de  la  carte  allemande.  Sous  le  nom 
de  Dshaldachcmn,  on  reconnait  un  cap  ii  rextremiti-  du- 

■  quel  sont  plusieurs  rochers  isoles  les  uns  des  autres 
mais  paraissant  assez  rapprociK's  pour  qu'un  chien 
puisse  les  parcourir  en  franchissant  d'un  saut  I'espace 
qui  les  st'pare.     Un  autre   cap  s'appelle  Karamrunn, 


504 


LOUIGlHJi    5CYTH0-C1MMER1ENNE 


c'est-Si'dire  rocher  qui  gronde.  On  trouve  encore? 
Ssaritsch,  on  y  risque  j  KUineiss,  qui  en  sort ;  Mega- 
nomm,  cache  riiomme;  Fanar,  se  hater;  Ajudagh,  ae- 
courir;  JVi^tdr,  quitte  le  nid;  Tschikenn,Te\event;  Ka- 
radagh,  amas  de  rochers;  Eskiforos,  j'amorce  au  largej 
Uiidull,  centre  de  hurlements^  etc.  etc. 

Sur  les  cotes  sout  In  baie  de  Be/6ei,  j'aper^ois  une 
voile,  ou  Caharta,  mettre  le  navjre  ^  la  cape  ;  Sure- 
les  Kaja,  maisoQ  des  ctoiles,  ou  observatoire ;  Pegs- 
Uchanaja,  poissonneuse ;  KokUbel,  ami:ne  la  voile; 
KurtyzibuTtinn,  roche  ^  eruptions.  Oq  remarque  I'e- 
lang  de  Zyhir,  on  y  court  ;  ceux  de  KirH\  creux; 
Tarknnn,  fond  de  terre  i  Missirr  ou  Tschokrakk,  xmskrt 
ou  desseclie.  Entre  diverses  sources  d'eaux  minerales 
que  produit  la  presqu'ile  de  Tamann  est  uii  lieu  apjieic 
Kobany,  bain  cutsant.  Uemplaceraent  de  Teruplioc 
volcanique  de  1 794  parte  les  noms  de  Kuhuoha,  caveme 
qui  cuil.  Une  langue  de  terre  tr^s-abritL-e  est  Ssvtr- 
ncija  Kossa,  la  cote  a  hiverner.  Une  autre  fort  elroite, 
Jusknaja  Kossa,  c'est-a-dire  cote  juste  il  y  en  a. 

On  trouve  encore  divers  Hots  ou  bancs  de  sable  sous 
les  noras  de  Tschongarr,  anias  de  joncs;  Kossa  J)»ha- 
rill  Agalsch,  cote  de  sable  fin  dangereux ;  Ssaritmlalt 
sable  fin  uboul^;  KuU  Tschanfuiann,  c6te  trfe-fr^- 
quent^e  ;  Arahatsskaja  Kossa,  cote  de  la  fortiticatioii 
avanc^e.  Ce  dernier  nooi  appartieut  ^  un  banc  de 
sable  sur  lequel  circule  une  route  qui  vient  aboutir  aa 
continent  pur  un  passage  etroit  appek',  JenitscM  Ton- 
I'a,  c'est-a-dire  je  sors,  f'erme.  Le  banc  de  sable  est 
pour  la  c6te  une  esp^ce  de  defense  naturelle  avancee; 
de  I^  Ba  denomiuatiou,  Et  le  pai^sage  etroit  aboutit  it 
i'isthme  connu  sous  les  deux  designations  de  KeriiniSt 
ou  Peracop. 


D£   LA    LANttUE    BOXANB.  503 

Ces  deux  mots,  de  forme  si  differente  et  dont  I'ac- 
ceptioQ  est  h  peu  pr^s  identique,  sembteot  accuser  deux 
races  diverses  d'origine,  quoique  la  langue  catalane, 
d'apr^s  ce  que  nous  coanaissoDS  maiatenaat,  puisse 
servir  h,  les  expliquer.  Oa  sait  que  £er  est  roc ; 
Kinitt  repond  ii  Cttgniet,  qui  signifie  coin.  On  ne  peut 
s'y  tromper,  car  on  appelle  cugnic  ud  petit  mseau  telle- 
ment  maigre  que  sa  poitrine  pr^ente  toujours  cette 
forme  ;  de  plus,  la  valeur  phonetique  en  Catalan  et  la 
forme  materielle  de  Tobjet  qui  repond  au  mot  grec  cte^ 
fournissent  un  autre  argument  k  I'appui. 

Kerlinitt  signiHerait  done,  pierre  en  forme  de  coin. 
Peracop  fournit  le  mot  pera,  qui  traduit  exactement 
ker,  et  cop  signifie  coup;  nous  avons  done  ici,  pierre  h. 
coup  et  pierre  k  coin.  Au  pied  de  la  grande  fortifica- 
tion qui  ferme  I'istbme,  le  premier  village  s'appelle : 
Preobragens,  ou  Ton  trouve  les  trois  mots,  Pera-obra- 
gen,  qui  signifient,  gens  qui  travaillent  la  pierre.  C'etait 
done  le  lieu  babite  par  les  masons  ou  tailleurs  de  pierre 
qui  ont  concouru  k  I'^rection  de  la  muraille  de  defense. 
On  pourrait  alors  conjecturer  que  le  mot  pera  ffit  in- 
troduit  par  une  race  posterieure  d'epoque  a  celle  qui 
se  servait  du  mot  her. 

Je  ne  voudrais  pas  prolonger  plus  longtemps  une 
glose  qui  ne  peut  que  fatiguer  mes  lecteurs,  d'autant 
plus  que  ce  travail  est  destine  a  prendre  la  forme  du 
glossaire.  Je  supprimerai  done  bon  nombre  d'obser- 
vations  qui  peuvent  servir  k  demontrer  la  solidite  des 
bases  sur  lesquelles  repose  ma  decouverte,  pour  m'en 
tenir  a  quelques-unes  principales.  Sur  les  sommets 
les  plus  eleves  de  la  peninsule  cimmerienne  je  trouve 
souvent  le  mot  Jeli,  qui  gignifie  glacial  ouje  gele,  et 
que  ribere  prononce  geli,  accouplc  avec  d'autres.  Bans 


606 


l'obIgink  8CXTH0-CIHM£r1£NNB 


la  region  moyeDne  je  trouve  le  degel  repreeente  par  la 
forme  Desckel,  identique,  ou  a  peu  pres,  chez  les  deux 
•peuples. 

Certains  mots  qui  representent  des  parties  du  corps 
'appartenant  a  I'un  et  a  Tautre  sexe;  d'autres  qui  ex- 
prlment  des  fonctions  naturelles  que  je  ne  saurais  tra- 
duire  ici,  on  le  sent  bien,  restent  encore  les  mSmes 
sans  variation  chez  les  deux  peuples.  Le  mot  Khan 
ou  Can,  precedant  une  designation  de  famille  ou  tnbu, 
se  trouve  des  deux  cdtes.  La  lettren,  qui  est  un  eigne 
d'excellence  ou  superiorite  sociale,  se  conserve  encore 
-de  partet  d'autre;  ainsi  le  Catalan  du  moyen-^lge  disait, 
le  roi  N'Anfos,  le  roi  Wan  Pera,^  suivant  que  le  nom 
commen9ait  par  une  voyelle  ou  consoane.  Le  Cimme- 
rien  d^ignait  les  lieux  babites  par  ses  chefs  sous  le 
mot  N'Aimann,  c'est-a-dire  le  chef  qui  la  commande. . 
Le  Catalan  moderne  ecrirait,  N'ahi  mane. 

Nomenclature  dn  Noma  de  Lieu  monosyllabiques  relevA  sur  la  Carte 
allemande  de  Handtke : — 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman, 

Franqaia. 

Kminn 

camins 

chemins 

Katt 

gat 

chat 

Kyrk 

courq 

creux 

Boi 

bai 

bas 

Klen 

calen 

chaud 

Ab8 

ase 

fine 

Boss 

boiis 

boeufs 

Kirr 

ker 

roche 

Ssakk 

sac 

mo 

Aisch 

e'ix 

sort  (ou  essien) 

Less 

llest 

diligent 

^  Four  :  S.  M.  le  roi  Alfonee  oa  Pierre. 


DE   LA    LANGUE   EOXANE. 


607 


Orthographe 
ailemande. 

JJonum. 

Frawjiaig. 

Aipp 

ep 

appel 

Kutt 

coste 

c6te 

Tuosch 

tous 

tonx 

Kuortt 

oort 

cour 

KOM 

con 

corps 

Dai'rr 

d'ai're 

▼ite 

Tasch 

tax 

taxe 

Tschii 

xii             exclamation  d'^tonnement 

Kutsch 

coutze 

coude 

S;kk  (cap) 

sec 

sec 

i«  Je  Lieu  relevA  tur  ta  Oartg  finutfoiae 

d'Andrivtam  Got^o*:— 

Orthographe 
fron^aue. 

Roman. 

Frmuiau. 

Troita 

treta 

d€fiich& 

Saits 

seta 

aoif 

Zaim 

aim 

cime 

Kair 

kair 

sommet  ext^rieur 
d'un  angle 

Kertsch 

ken 

rochen 

Schlamm 

clam 

dameur 

Taukk 

tok 

toucher 

Taz 

tatze 

tache 

Psifl  (coun  d'eau)  xifle 

siffle 

Don        (id.) 

Boug      (id.) 

Nomt  de  Ueu  dusyllabtquet. 

(Handtke.) 

Orthographe 
ailemande. 

Roman. 

Franqais. 

Ssanak 

aanat 

chfttr^ 

Konan 

canau 

lis  mesurent 

Durmen 

dormen 

ils  dorment 

608 


l'oBIOIMB    SCTTHO'CIHH^RIBNNK 


Ortkographe 

allemande. 

Roman^ 

Franqmt, 

Apasa 

a  pas 

au  pas 

Tarkann 

tarregan 

font  da  petit  charbon 

KambaiT 

cambiar 

changer  (ou  gambar, 
gambader) 

Taschlarr 

tatxe  I'ar 

t-axe  le  filet  de  pScbe 

Ssalin 

salia 

aalin 

Kebekk 

cabeque 

chouette 

Dsharakk 

cliarrak 

lame  de  scie 

Dere 

derrd 

derrifere 

Messitt 

maait 

en  m&noir 

Dshuparr 

xupar 

s'imbiber 

Bairatsch 

barrats 

barrages 

Tobei 

tot  bei 

tout  je  Tois 

To'imass 

tol  masse 

porte  masBue 

TokmaJi 

toe  mull 

touche  maillet 

Tscfaota 

sota 

stupide  (ou  dessons) 

Itschki 

itxqui 

je  sors 

Muschai 

muxai 

moustique 

Ablasch 

ab  I'axe 

avcc  la  hache 

Altai  ■ 

ou 
Alata'i. 

al  taill 

ou 
a  la  taille . 

&  la  coupe 

Ka'inasch 

canas 

gros  cbien 

Kiyat 

kijat 

enfonce 

Bogliass 

bogas 

plantes  mar^cag. 

Nasyrr 

nasire 

nez  colere 

Kutschak 

coutsat 

coud^  (ou  coutjat, 
couche) 

Sstaban 

staban 

ils  restaient 

Babann 

baban 

ils  bareut 

Tachukull 

b'ou  cull 

recolte  pour  soi 

Oisull 

OS  oull 

ceil  d'ours 

Tschukurr 

Bucurs 

secours 

Kcl-Scbcich 

cal  xex 

il  faut  du  hU 

Kanaan 

eanaa 

ils  mesurent 

DE   LA    LANODE   ROHANB. 


509 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

F)ran^au. 

Konratt 

conroat 

cultiv^ 

Tokk-Scheich 

toe  xex 

toucbe  du  \A6 

Kiptschakk 

quitxat 

press^ 

Korpolu 

cor  palout 

cceur  velu 

Ssartscha 

serrej^ 

en  eime 

Myssai' 

m'y  saill 

m'en  sort 

Kabatsch 

cabata 

bSch& 

B^'gull 

bagol 

cri 

Taschkoi 

tatxe  coU 

taxe  au  col 

Kortbii 

cort  bii 

je  dirige  brifevement 

Airtscba 

airej^ 

donner  de  Pair 

Onus 

eras 

bords 

Toka 

toca 

toucbe 

Ssaja 

s'aja 

s'obtient 

AtyBch 

a  fixe 

k  t'en  Bortir 

Akkbasch 

al  baix 

au  baa 

Kalatsch 

calaix 

tiroir 

Boaakk 

bo  sac 

bon  Mw.  (ou  baQtat, 
trabi) 

Bagah' 

bagal 

nceud 

SaadyiT 

se  dire 

se  dire 

Tokk-DsboU 

toe  sol 

toucbe  le  soleil 

Naimann 

n'abi  mane 

le  chef 

Kutai' 

coutell 

coutre 

Kodascb 

cotas 

grande  cotte 

Schiptsche 

sitje 

puits 

Altscbinn 

alt  sim 

haute  cime 

Kere'i 

crei 

il  eroit 

Karatsch 

carats 

confronts 

Bshanai 

cenail 

torche 

Bengill 

d'anguille 

d'anguille 

Irgyaa 

ire  guie 

colere  dirige 

Borkutt 

bore  costa 

bord  du  coteau 

Dshadra 

charrk 

bavarder 

Kirleutt 

ker  leu 

roc  Uger 

5ia- 


l'oRIGINX   8CTTH0-CIHH£RIKNN2 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman.. 

FranctM. 

Adshai* 

assaJL 

aases 

Kuitsche 

cuitg^ 

coucher 

Ssultann 

BoltAH 

d^livrent 

Dsaba 

aaba 

en  sfeve 

Sselzo 

sal  so 

sauc^ 

Sotaach 

boUu 

letenue  d'ean  (on 
grand  vceu) 

Agali 

i^gaUl 

au  coq 

Kadyach 

ca  d'ixe 

chien  de  sortie 

MuDusa 

inuna 

nombreux 

Muni 

muni 

traire 

Monai' 

monail 

soliveau  brut 

Bejen 

beien 

qu'ils  Toient 

Bigenn 

biguen 

ils  placentdes  pootres 

Tscherkess 

cerques 

tu  cherches 

Tschagu 

cegail 

moiraon 

Schigai' 

ceg'alt 

coupe  haut 

TschugenD 

zuguen 

ils  ^puiseut 

Sseimeu 

semen 

scmence 

Tschailaff 

saillas 

banc  de  limon 

Kitai' 

qui  tail 

ici  la  coupe 

Kireitt 

keret 

petit  roc 

KulsBeid 

cul  set 

Boif  derriere 

Karmysch 

karmes 

ver 

Schygimm 

seguim 

suivons 

Toktai 

toe  tail 

touche  la  coupe 

Kordsliakk 

cordejat 

cordete 

Tama 

ta  ma 

ta  main 

Temirr 

temir 

craindre 

Kudiarr 

coutjar 

coucher 

Aibarr 

albar 

Paube 

Kisslarr 

qu'issa  Tar 

hissez  le  filet  de  p^ 

Argynn 

arreguin 

iU  arrosent 

Kara 

cara 

face 

Ssary 

sarry 

besace 

DS   LA    LANGDE    BOHAMS. 


6U 


Orthographe 
aliemande. 

Roman, 

Franqait. 

Burtscho 

burjo 

percbe  pointue 

Kiadshe 

catse 

boite 

Taschli 

taxe  ly 

taxe  le  lit 

Man 

man 

marin 

Tattmon 

dalt  mont 

en  haut  (ou  famon, 
ils  f  aiment) 

Dshuren 

suren 

ils  Bumagent 

AdsbauU 

atze  111! 

hacbia  d'ceil 

Itakk 

Juslerr 

jus  I'era 

sous  Faira 

Tumen 

toumea 

se  battent  de  la  tSte 

Katurr 

ca,  attire 

chien  d'anSt 

Meterr 

mad^re 

du  bois  en  plancbe 

Ma'irykk 

mu  ric 

jamais  riche 

Barasch 

banas 

barrage 

Taachkoi" 

tatxe  coll 

taxe  sur  le  ool 

Apann 

a  panne 

dans  la  poele 

Tejesch 

texeix 

il  tisse 

Kangyll 

ganguil 

l^vrier 

Toltschakk 

tol  sac 

emporte  nan 

Salaull 

sala  ulle 

vase  k  salaisou 

Kokei 

qu  aque'i 

qui  est-ce  ? 

TakiU 

te  qu'il 

le  Toilk 

A'idarr 

ajudar 

aider 

Tnchotai 

so  taiUe 

coupe  pour  soi 

Otesch 

0  teix       "1 

le  tisse 

ou 

ou 

Kotesch  . 

qu'o  teix . 

qui  le  tisse 

TIesch 

teleix 

fabrique  toile 

Bumasch  ' 

bomias 

-  gros  borgne 

ou          > 
Bomak 

bonuat 

^borgn£ 

Bnsaff 

biiiuw 

adulateur 

Usbekk 

us  bee 

je  Tons  Tois 

ShetuU 

chete  ull 

ceil  de  Tobinet 

VOL.  VII. 

2  H 

612 


l'orioine  scttho-cimh^rienne 


Ortkographe 
cdlenumde. 

Roman. 

Fraru^txB. 

Eltokk 

al  toe 

au  toe 

Dshirenn 

giren 

ils  tournent 

Agiarr 

a  guiar 

It  conduire 

Schuchi    1 

B*ixi 

B^en  tire 

on          > 
Ttchetache. 

s'eixe 

8*en  sortir 

Dshuma 

chuma 

flairer 

Treablan 

triplan 

ils  triplent 

Alasch 

alas 

aSlea 

KosBtel 

castel 

castel 

Tomaj' 

tomail 

stupide 

Onlarr 

un  liar 

nn  lard 

Dshailarr 

Baill  I'ar 

limon  au  filet 

Schibann 

s'y  ban 

s'en  vont 

Toptschakk 

taxat 

tax^ 

Baba  (le  cap) 

baba 

bave 

Ssassykk  (€tang) 

se  seque 

s'asseehe 

Beschi 

bessi 

je  rdpands  le  liquide 
(ou  bassin) 

Temisch 

temeix 

craint 

Arapp 

arrape 

saisit 

Akkoss 

ilCOB 

au  corps 

Tusla 

tous  allii 

tousse  \k 

Tulatt 

toulat 

toit 

Karatsch 

cairats 

soliveaux 

Bshabasch 

B'abaue 

a'abaisse 

Tokkschenkk 

toe  seny 

tocsin 

Biitenn 

bi  J  ten 

vin  y  tient 

AtEU 

k  tail 

par  coupe 

Bulekk 

boulet 

champignoa 

Juschuun 

jusqu'ahont 

juBqu'ou? 

Dede 

deudc 

dette 

Kula    1 

coula 

agit  du  derriSre 

KuUa   J 

caiilJl 

cailler  le  lait  (ou  col- 
lier) 

DB   LA   LANODE   ROHANK. 


513 


Orthographe 

allemande. 

Roman. 

i^an^oM. 

Tscbarikk  (pres- 

cbarrique 

boit 

qulle} 

Tscborumm' 

par  un  petit  lilet  d'eai 

ou 
Schoramm  . 

Borram 

sablonneux 

Tscbutschakk 

judjat 

jug^ 

Ssumai 

soumail 

paresseux 

Kokk-Eo86 

C0C08 

mang^  des  vera 

Samnikk 

samerague 

saugsue 

Otar 

oil  tard 

aourd 

Bodrakk 

boterat 

mis  dans  I'outre 

Manguach 

mane  goua 

m^tre  de  cbieus 

Bescheff 

baixes 

petite  Wtflolte 

Asiss 

a  bU 

a  aix 

Akkscbeich 

al  sec 

au  sec 

Tuile 

toul^ 

briquetier 

Pitscbki 

pitje  aqui 

enfonce  \k 

Scbulti 

getou 

froideur 

Laka 

llaca 

lignea  de  plants 

Albatt 

albat 

enfant  mort 

Karlu 

carelou 

&it  &ce 

Janssu 

llansou 

jette-le 

Baga 

baga 

coteau  oppose  au  so 
leil 

Markull 

marque  ull 

marque  Toeil 

Kelscheich 

cals  sec 

cbaux  de  stehe 

A'irgult 

orguU 

orgneil 

Sstilia 

stilla 

^laircir 

Kuusch 

cuxe 

cuisse 

Babuann 

ba  bouan 

enduit  de  bouze 

Autka 

auca 

oie 

Gusspra 

gust  spera 

attendre  I'app^tit 

Cburis 

souris 

sourire 

Misscborr 

mig  sonre 

mi-sable 

SBimeis 

simets 

petites  dmes 
2u2 

614 


l'oRIOINE   SCrTHO-ClMH^RIBNNE 


Orthoffrapke 
allemande. 

Roman.- 

Francois, 

Skala 

scala 

€cbelle 

Forass 

forrats 

fourres 

Lasspi 

lo  sapi 

le  sapiD 

Kaita 

gai'ta 

guette 

Bai'darr 

bai'  d'ar 

bas  du  filet 

Sstagtikk 

Btaque  t'y 

attache  t'y 

Sskelja 

squeleja 

escalader 

Teiia 

tela 

mettre  de  U  toile 

ou      > 
Teilu  J 

teidou 

madrier 

Dai'na 

daina 

daine 

Kiirka 

courca 

creuser 

Kam  MoBSt 

cam  most 

champ  de  moAt 

Unu 

unou 

union 

Bojukk 

be  iuk 

droit 

Belbekk 

bel  bee 

voile  je  voia 

KoaatBchk 

cossats 

frapp^  &  conps  de 
pied 

Kopschakk 

capzat 

emboit^ 

Kary 

can 

cberir 

Karssann 

cariciaa 

ils  caressent 

Ssollarr 

solar 

coteau  au  soleil 

Arpasch 

arpas 

serres  d'lin  oiseaa 

Katsclnkk 

cap  sec 

hois  coupe  sec 

Mangutt 

mangot 

mitaine 

Adikk 

addict 

adonn^ 

Baschbekk 

baix  beg 

je  Tois  en  bas 

Karatsch 

cai'rats 

soliveaus 

Kerleutt 

ker  leu 

roc  rapide 

Koschai 

coxal 

piece  de  bois 

Porpatsch 

pou  arrepats 

terrifies 

Korpetsch 

corbeta 

petits  corbeaux 

Kardonn 

cardoDS 

chardons 

Kuletsch 

coulets 

petits  choux 

Ssargyll 

sarreguUl 

sable  fiu 

DS   LA    LANQUE    ROUANE. 


515 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

Franqais. 

Alatsch 

alats 

ail& 

Ssemenn 

Bemen 

semence 

Juischun 

jusq'ahon 

jusqu'on 

Tatarr 

tatar 

t^ter 

Ortai" 

ortal 

jardin 

Kobekk 

cabeque 

chouette 

KutBchboj 

coutje  bai 

couche  bas 

Kokei 

qu  quei 

qui  est-ce? 

Barakk 

baraqae 

baraque 

Appakk 

apat 

app&t 

Otarr 

ou  tard 

Bourd 

Takett 

taqtiet 

^tan^on 

Otuss 

oii  toiu 

entend  tonaser 

Ssujuk 

sujut 

convert  de  stiint 

Kuplakk 

couplat 

accouple 

Esski 

esqui 

je  meta  I'appftt 

Toklukk 

tot  cluque 

ferme  lea  denz  yeux 

Ssudakk 

Buat 

en  transpiration 

Dshurgann 

sourjan 

prennent  du  saint 

Kanlj 

canely 

canalise 

Bui^uss 

bourrelloua 

floconneux 

Togai 

dogal 

corde  du  bftt 

Bai7 

berry 

accoupler  le  verrat 

Bura 

bourra 

ftnesse 

Weiratt 

verriat 

verrat'  accouple 

Mamak 

mamat 

allaitg 

Abdall 

ab  dalle 

avec  la  faux 

Ssarai 

sarral 

sommet  elev^ 

Bitakk 

viedat 

circulation 

Butke 

bodeguer 

sommelier 

Kangill 

ganguil 

levrier 

Badrakk 

ba  de  raig 

coulc  par  un  filet 

Kotscbmess 

cotje  mes 

incline  davantage 

Atachkall 

atxe  rain 

prepare  la  chaux 

TBcholman 

sol  mane 

commande  le  soleil 

516 


l'orioine  sgttho-ciuh^riznns 


Orlhoffraphe 

allemande. 

Roman^ 

Franqai*. 

Kurtscha 

couiretj^ 

lier  avec  des  ooomnet 

Bijukk 

vie,  iuk 

dresse  la  voie 

Tschoi^nn 

sorrejan 

ensablent 

JaDko'i 

jancolle 

attele  les  grau 

Orta 

orta 

grand  jardin 

Ssobla 

sopla 

supplie 

Asek 

h,  sec 

ft  RRC 

Kanysch 

ca  n'ix 

chien  en  sort 

Burlukk 

bourrellout 

floconneux 

Tschii 

xii 

fayez  (aiix  roUtiles} 

Kontsche 

conche 

coiiSRia 

Batenn 

bouten 

ils  enfleut  Tfiutre 

DsaiBchi 

salsi 

je  sauce 

Kitai 

qui  taille 

qui  coupe 

Burnasch 

bourrounas 

gros  ftne 

Memisch 

meu  mitg 

moitid  jt  nun 

Tibei 

fybei 

je  t*y  vois 

Kisakk 

quissat 

excite 

Tschalgarr 

s'algar 

se  couvrier  d'algne 

Scheichkoi 

cegue  colle 

moissonDeurs 

TegMch 

tcxeix 

tisse 

Schuike 

xuque 

suce 

Isspatt 

ix  cepat 

cepage  qui  parait 

TakiU 

ta  quille 

te  plante  droit 

Kultschukk 

cull  xuc 

recolte  du  liquide 

Atmunn 

alt  mon 

au  sommet 

SchoDukk 

xanuque 

hacbe  tres-mean 

Tobai 

tobaille 

nappe 

Koptschakk 

cop  de  sac 

Jl  plain  sac 

Matai 

matall 

metal 

Kaioault 

canat 

mesur^ 

N'uimann 

n'ull  mane 

commande  des  yeux 

1"aigann 

t'aygann 

on  te  mouille 

Kurtlukk 

courtellout 

en  bergeiie 

Molbai 

moll  bai 

bas  fond  humide 

SX  LA   LANGDS   ROMANE. 


517 


Orthographe 
aUemande. 

Roman. 

Frangaii, 

Bescbeff 

baixes 

mauvaise  r&x>lte 

Koktasch 

cucadas 

plein  de  vers 

Dshaparr 

sapar 

couTiir  de  soucheB 

Kanlykk 

canalit 

canalis^ 

Muschu 

moucball 

moustique 

Melekk 

melet 

petit  miel 

Tekle 

tecle 

article  ^it 

Uschunn 

uix  UQ 

I'un  sort 

Ssudabutt 

sussut 

convert  de  repnut 

Dshemrykk 

zam  no 

rucbe  ricbe 

MissiiT 

miseri 

misire 

Majakk 

mallat 

irapp^  da  maillet 

Akkschikk 

adiique 

relive 

Temesch 

temeix 

a  penr 

Kuurdegh 

courda 

cordeler 

Kuschkii 

cntje  aqul 

couche  \k 

Akkoss 

k  cos 

BU  corps 

KamjBch 

camia 

cliemins 

Schelena 

gelen 

iU  g^leat 

Boroun 

bouroum 

bourgeon 

Kopscborr 

cop  Borre 

force  sable 

Arpatt    1 

arpat 

coup  de  serre 

UU               > 

Arpall    . 

arrepall 

pillage 

Usskutt 

escoute 

^coute  (ou  0U8  costCj 

cdte  de  Pours) 

Tnakk 

touat 

^A6 

Tiirkdagb 

tira  qneda 

s'arrdter  en  tirant 

Schumma 

xuma 

flairer 

Kurklett 

courcalet 

petit  creux 

Artekk 

ar  teix 

tisse  le  filet  de  pScbe 

Kojascb 

collas 

colliers 

Kasskann 

cace  raiTif) 

chasse  an  diien 

Schikann 

xican 

Boul^vent 

Bascbaul 

baixal 

descente 

B18 


l'origine  scttho-cimh^riehne 


allemande. 

Roman.    . 

Fran^aig. 

Ortanl 

ortal 

jardins 

Kossaul 

costal 

cbai^  d'lm  c6t£ 

Tschabakk 

sabat 

en  seve 

Opukk 

oii  poc 

entend  pea 

Gai'ti 

gaiti 

je  guette 

Kaoi 

cani 

je  mesure 

Aty 

a  di 

k  dire 

Kluoba 

cloba 

enveloppe 

Andrisa 

andres 

magasin 

Ssunskukk 

sum  s'caque 

l^^retnent  piqn€ 

Abdy 

ab  dy 

avec  parole 

Otasch 

0  taxe 

y  taxe 

Chreja 

cro'ia 

craie 

Andagh 

anda 

pare  en  corde 

TamAnn 

ta  mane 

te  commande 

Kischla 

qu'ix  alU 

qui  sort  \k 

Kiscbly 

qu'ix  alii 

qui  sort  id 

Bragi 

bragui 

j'entoure 

Ssaibasch 

sa  y  baxe 

on  y  descend 

Boghas 

bogas 

plantes  marecag. 

Russkyrkk 

rusque  courque     rucbe  creuse 

Noma  de  Lieu  triayllabiques. 

(Handtke.)    Crimie. 

Dshangutann 

aanglutan 

lis  sanglottent 

Ilgeri 

algueri 

se  couvrir  d'algiie 

Bagata 

bagata 

cotean  oppos^  au  soleil 

Tupp  Abbass 

tap  a  baix 

bouchon  k  bas 

Tupp  Kangyll 

tap  qu'enguU 

bouchon  mauvais 

Bojssallarr 

baixa  I'ar 

abaisse  le  filet  de  pecbe 

Ssadaktschi 

sadassi 

je  tamise 

Berekett 

barrequet 

petite  baraque 

Kuttlejarr 

culejar 

agir  du  deniere 

Mullahkoi 

moulla  coll 

XQOuille  au  col 

KuUtschara 

cul  charra 

bavarde  du  derriere 

f                                  DK   LA    LANGUE 

ROMANE.                               519           ^1 

Orthography 

H 

aliemande. 

Roman. 

Fran^aii.                              ^^M 

KodshangtiU 

cotse  an  gull 

supprime  lea  courbcs                   1 

Mursalarr 

TQUssa  I'ar 

Use:  \e  Met  de  pcclie              ^^M 

KuUoba 

culobra 

couteuvre                               ^^M 

Knrudshaga 

grout  cega 

moisBODDc  duBon                 ^^M 

D.shangara 

Bangra 

saigncr                                      ^^H 

Bcacherann 

baixerau 

ils  descendront                        ^^H 

Buitene 

buitene 

le  huiticme                            ^^M 

Eschkeiie 

esqucoe 

recliine                                  ^^M 

Scheich  JVtanak 

cegue  mailac 

muiasoTiue  doucemcut           ^^M 

Atatai 

ala  tnill 

tranchaut  dc  I'aile                 ^H 

Koppotoss 

cop  potaH 

coups  de  pied                         ^^M 

Assotass 

assotoa 

coups  de  bAtoa                      ^^M 

Beikadsha 

be  y  ca^-a 

biea  y  cbo&se                         ^^M 

Akk  Maiua'i 

al  mamal 

au  tetage                                ^^M 

Meschketsclii 

m'csquctxi 

je  mc  dechire                         ^^M 

Karamiisch 

car  a  muxe 

face  flasque                            ^^M 

Karamyscli 

cara  mitge 

face  a  moitie                          ^^M 

Ka-iman 

cauan 

Ua  megurest                           ^^H 

Torpant«clii 

tor  pansi; 

etablissentent   dee   rai'        ^^M 
aiuB  sees                            ^^H 

Saabantachi 

sa  pansi 

se  dess^cher                           ^^M 

Temiscliaa^ 

te  mitjas 

poascde  de&  jambiei^            ^^m 

TagorouU 

tsco  roullc 

le  batou  manceuvre               ^^M 

Korpolii 

cor  palut 

poitrtne  velue                         ^^M 

Cogenesch 

cagucncs 

latrioes                                      ^^H 

Aktatschi 

at  taiLi 

je  te  taxe                               ^^M 

Kortbii 

cort  bii 

je  dirige  court                        ^^M 

Kartabckk 

cart  ta  beg 

je  te  voiH  cber                        ^^H 

Alidermeii 

alii  dormcu 

la  ou  durt                               ^^M 

Mussala 

mussob^ 

lieu  frequente  des  oi-         ^^M 

KuU  Saadykk 

CLil  xadic 

derriere  d'une  beche             ^^M 

Dortt  Ssakall 

tort  sac  all 

hois  sec  contoiirn^                 ^^m 

Taffbuearr 

ta  fa  biisar 

tc  fait  flatter                          ^H 

Kopparaiin 

cup  a  ram 

coup  pres  du  aol                    ^^M 

1                 620                   L'oaiGIHB   SCYTHO'CIMH^RIBMNE                   ^H 

^^^            Orlhographe 

Fran^ais.                ^^| 

^^^1               af-ietmtnde. 

Roman. 

^^H            Dallitscbarr 

dal  UUar 

glister  de  haut        ^^| 

^^V             Kumakiau ' 

counia  a^'vn 

qu'ils  aicut  la  cime 

^^H            Kuttjakinnj 

coBte  je  quin 

qu'Us  laissent  U  cote 

^^H            Kartscbega 

cart  cega 

moisaonner  cher 

^^H           Kulasclieicli 

cula  xex 

)e  derrien?.  au  ble 

^^H            Kopkijat 

cop  guiat 

coup  dirige 

^^H           T&cbagyltai 

cegui  rtail 

moisaonne  h  la  coupe 

^^^1           Ateiilschikk 

a  tail  sec 

k  coupe  aecbe 

^^^1           Tanabai 

ten  a  bai 

ticut  k  baa                ^^ 

^^^a           Bai'ssary 

bai  sarry 

besace  fi  b^s            ^^| 

^^^1           Tuitepe 

tut  a  pcu 

tout  ii  pied               ^^M 

^^H           SbalaiitLisch 

salan  taxo 

satent  du  blaireau    ^^ 

^^H            DshnngiLarr 

B^anguilar 

fl'introduire 

^^^1            Ba'ibolasch 

bai  bol  uixe 

b&s.  vcut  iasiie 

^^H           Jaus^akall 

jau  sacall 

ce  qui  est  see,  k  terre 

^^H            KeletBchc 

calcxS 

easier 

^^H           Tomabiess 

ton]  a  biex 

prend  de  bials 

^^B            Tamamjiisch 

t'aman  jous 

on  t'aimc  deasous     ^^1 

^^^           Bii&su 

bii  sou 

jc  dirigc  dessous       ^H 

^^1           Tokultscbakk 

toe  cul  de  sac 

touclie  le  fond  du  sac 

^^^1           Japuiidshi 

ja  punxi 

je  poiute 

^^^1            Teguutacbu 

te  junctio 

a  jonction 

^^H           Oi'lsGrasekk    - 

oil  sers  aeca 

ecoutc  le  vetit  asaechc 

^^H            Togaily 

tot  gaily 

tout  COq                               1 

^^H            Tokkacharirr 

totxa  riure 

lire  stupide              ^^J 

^^H            BaTbulat 

bai  sbulat 

bas  eboule                ^^H 

^^^1           KafmatBclii 

call  matsi 

Toie  muletiere          '^^^ 

^^^1           Boraganti 

borragatn 

agneaux  d'uu  ah       ^^M 

^^H           Mursabckk 

murca  beg 

je  boi$  du  depot       ^^M 

^^^^             Dsbarogatsch 

sarro  gatse 

sac  eu  gage               ^^M 

^^^1           Ssaryba^ch 

BQ  riu  bais 

rit  tout  baa              ^^| 

^^H           Taroquell 

terroa  guell 

gue  terreuE               ^^M 

^^^1           DshuS'liadfihi 

sa  fatSL 

qu'il  8C  fi^cbe                     1 

^^H           Kodshambukk 

cotj*en  bac 

coiicbe  o[)pose  au  enleil 

DR  LA  LANGUK  ROHANK. 


521 


Orthoffraphe 
aUemande. 

Amanscha 

Bajassty 

Ken^uess 

Kokktana 

Oasmantschikk 

KostchukkasB 

Kojuntschu 

£ejnett8chi 

Kadagai 

Ch'mamschakk 

Daudeli 

Tscherkensikk 

Dshaniminn 

Baschlitscha 

Dshaflfbolda 

Bojkabasch 

Schegelakk 

Aushinbett 

Arokesch 

Kutschkabasch 

Saibassty 

Tipptobe 

Tokkssaba 

Dshabagi 

ShabantBchi 

Abaslarr 

Ossalai' 

Balatschi 

Buletschikk 

KuTula 

Ssaltoba 

Akkkuja 

Kontugaan 

Kartogin 


Roman. 

k  mancbft 
ballast!  - 
que  D*agn%8 
cocad'ana 
OS  mante  sec 
coste  chncas 
cqjunctio 
(jae  ineltsi 
ca  d'agai't 
oil  mama  sac 
deiide  alH 
cerqaen  sec 
s'animin 
baix  lissa 
saf  bol  dou 
bai  cabats 
c^ue  Uaque 

sn  sim  beste 

aroqueix 
cntxe  cabats 
bai  basti 
tippe  te  be 
toe  se  ba 
sa  bagi 
B^abansi 
abaixe  I'ar 
onase  Pail 
sboula  %'y 
boulet  chic 
courrelou 
salta  o  ba 
al  coullou 
condugan 
cart  ouillou 


au  soufflet  de  foi^ 

user  de  I'arc 

qu'il  y  en  efit  I 

gftteau  de  yoya;%e 

I'ours  garantit  de  I'eaa 

cOte  qui  s'^puise 

reunion 

que  la  rate  son&e 

chien  de  garde 

I'ceuf  t^te  le  sac 

dettelk 

ill  cherchent  nn  lien  sec 

qu'ils  s'animent 

bas  glisse 

Teut  emporter  sauf 

terrains  b^h^s  bas 

moisson  align^   (ou 

cheglat,  sarcl^) 
Ta  fen  an  sommet 
court  lea  rochers 
aplanit  lesterresb^fa^es 
je  place  le  b&t  bas 
rawasie  toi  bien 
d^  qu'oQ  Sonne  il  part 
qu'il  parte 
qu'il  s'avance 
ilabaisse  le61et  depSche 
avance  I'ail 
s'^boule  \k 
petit  champignon 
petite  bergerie 
il  I'a  saut^ 
au  testicule 
qu'ils  conduisent 
arrosage  cher 


522 


l'origink  scytho-cimu£riknn£ 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

FTan^is. 

Tokktscharly 

toe  cbarli 

qne  le  son  bavarde 

Ssidshemutt 

sitje  mut 

puits  muet 

Aikugull 

al  cougoul 

au  cocu 

Karadscha 

caraja 

trainer  (ou  chanier] 

Bulatschi 

boula  s'y 

a'^boule 

Kogenli 

couguen  Ui 

filent  du  tin 

Otarrtschikk 

oil  tard  chic 

dur  d'oreille 

Treablan 

triplan 

ils  triplent 

Ortaablan 

ort  tablan 

divisent  les  platebandes 

Elgeri 

elguere 

terrain  d'algues 

Eirmasche 

quermecbe 

morve  qui  conle 

Kijabakk 

gnie  abat 

chef  de  traTaiUeuis 

Kermatschi 

ker  matxi 

roche  Jl  mulets 

Aissabei 

alsa  bei 

hausser^je  voia 

Morsatschikk 

morsat  sec 

gazbn  dessech^ 

Karajurt 

caralltit 

ignorant 

Eeigeldi 

bci  gueldi 

je  Tois  manger 

Kalbele 

cals  Telle 

chaux  aneienne 

Tschobotarr 

xo  botar 

halte  et  prenez  du  via 

Aschoa 

axougue 

essuie 

Kamyscbli 

carai  geli 

cheraio  glacd 

Kentugann 

qu'en  dougan 

qu'on  en  apporte 

Utscbkuju 

uix  couillou 

heniie 

Baikoudu 

bail  qu'om  dou 

daiisc  ou  rhomme  porte 

Kiildabenai 

cul  cenail 

tison  enflamme 

Balkosha 

ba'l  cotjii. 

va  couch er 

Kisilbai 

quissi  1'  bail 

je  pousse  k  danser 

Biitenn 

bi  y  ten 

y  tient  du  viu 

Ssamartscbikk 

saiuar  sec 

liquide  diminue  au  sec 

Ssoltanasch 

Boltat  II axe 

iiaitre  libre 

Dsheliscbai 

salis  sail 

il  y  pousse  des  arbris- 
seaux 

Konkary 

con  cari 

presque  enchfirir 

Kyschkara 

qui  s'cara 

qui  fait  face 

Kotscbkara 

coutje  cara 

couche  de  face 

^^K                       DU    LA    LANGUE   EOMANE.                           523           ^H 

I      Orthographe 

^H 

aliemande. 

Homan. 

Fran^aii.                                ^^M 

Bailiasakk 

baj'  casaque 

baa  cosaqae                             ^^M 

Karttkitsakk 

cart  casaque 

chere  casaque                          ^^m 

Ulscliilgii 

axcliga 

faire  {leur                                ^^M 

Kftratsclmi 

Carats  ail 

ail  tresae                                     1 

Dengeltscbikk 

teiigue  Taec 

tieu  Ib  sec                                   ^^H 

Karauki 

carraiiqiic 

precipices                                ^^M 

Toitebe 

tote  be 

boit  bien                                   ^^B 

Kotaganti 

cot'  agau 

qu'ila  xticDt  un  prix  Bxe          ^^M 

(uae  c6te)                            ^^1 

Kischkari 

qu'ix  cari  F 

qui  sort  enclLerir?                     ^^H 

Tscbantogaan 

s'andugan 

qu'iU  emportcnt                      ^^M 

Koktsnhekoss 

Ormantschi 

coutzccos 

-.    1    ■ 

coude                                       ^^M 

3       J       If                                                      ^^^^^1 

or  inantchi 

je  fonds  de  For                        ^^H 

Algasj' 

algucQs^ 

gardien  dc  liaias                     ^^| 

Kirku&chunn 

curq  uix  ahuut 

ofi  sort  la  caverue                   ^^M 

Terekly 

tcrrc  cali 

tcrrc  chaudc                            ^^M 

Taraka'i 

tarragail 

fond  d'huiuus.                            ^^| 

Birjalache 

virjasse 

vicille  vicrge                            ^^M 

Oteschel 

0  desgelc 

]e  degele                                ^^M 

Jewekcheich 

ja  vel'  sec 

dej.'i  arrive  le  sec                            1 

J  edischcl 

ja  deagelc 

deJ!^  il  degele                           ^^H 

Bulgaoakk 

boulcanat 

sens  desiaus-deBsoua                   ^^H 

Saalbkkoi 

salve  I'a  coll 

sauve-le  but  le  col                   ^^M 

Dsaff  Dslmrekk 

saS  sotirct 

li^gc  qui  dottc  sauf                    ^^H 

1     Ulakly 

f     Akktachokrakk 

oulla  cali 

marmitc  ciiaude                      ^^M 

al  soquerrat 

it  rinccndid                              ^^M 

Esskijurt 

es  court 

c'eat  court                               ^^| 

Ararakoi' 

a  rame  coll 

fagots  eur  le  col                       ^^M 

Jukafy 

juq  arri 

allons.,  droit  &ur  les                 ^^M 

TontachikoY 

jambes                                 ^^M 

tronchi  cul 

pied  dc  chou                            ^^M 

Aktatschi 

at  tat^i 

je  tc  ta\e                                  ^^M 

1     Dsliangurel 
Tscbat  Kara 

sang  arrcl 

racine  du  sang                         ^^| 

s'at  cara 

se  coQiparc  fi  toi                      ^^M 

Kalantai 

galaii  tail 

gras  morceau                          ^^M 

824 


l/ORIGINE    BCTTB0-CIMH£&IBMNE 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

Fran^ait. 

Arantsche 

arronss^ 

approche 

Esskiel 

es  quell 

c^est  oelui-lik 

KoschdermeiiD 

cotje  tennens 

abat  les  bodales 

Teberty 

t*aberty 

favertir 

Tatarkoi 

t&tarcoll 

t^ter  8ur  1e  col 

Ssiwritasch 

sluredas 

gros  chSne  li^ge 

Koluluss 

col  uliovs 

chou  (dit)  d'hidle 

Bogatyrr 

bogadir 

lessiver 

Muchaldyrr 

mouchait  tire 

attire  les  moncheroiu 

Oawardikk 

gaffa  ardit 

saisit  les  plus  har^ 

Kermentschikk 

kermeDS  chics 

petits  Ten 

Hadshiitoi 

asai  coll 

id  transport  ii  doa 

Magaraach 

magatras 

plateau  cach^ 

Ssinabdagh 

siiuedas 

gros  sommet 

Jamantash 

ja  mantas 

d^J4  tu  t'enveloppea 

Jailadagh 

geladaa 

lieu  tres-froid 

Ai'petri 

alt  pedris 

perron  ^ev€ 

Kysylltascb 

quissi  I'taxe 

j'excite  la  taxe 

A'ldanil 

alt  da  niu  - 

haut  de  nid    (on  ayda 
gniul,  aide  &  miauler} 

Nikita 

niii  quita 

quitte  le  nid 

Dereioi 

derre  coll 

dernier  defil€ 

Marssanda 

marchanda 

trafiquer 

Alupka 

a  lloup  ca 

au  loup  le  chien 

Lemeua 

lemena 

lamauer 

Kikineiss 

qui  que  n'eix 

qui  en  sort  ? 

Kiitschukk^oi 

coutzout  coll 

ddfil^  tortuenx 

Ealendy 

caleuti 

je  rechauffe 

Usunshi 

usen  s'y 

ils  s'habituent 

Rukussta 

roc  costa 

c6te  de  rochers 

Karauy 

carany 

carene 

Kadi/toV 

cap  de  colle 

chef  de  troupe 

Camara 

camarro 

porte  faix 

Tschoi^na 

xorq'  una 

ODgle  sterile 

Ai'todor 

alt  todor 

haiit  protecteur 

^^^                         DE   LA    LANOUE    ROHANE.                            525           ^H 

Orthofjraphe 
allemandt. 

Roman. 

Fran^atff,                               ^^M 

Kabarta 

cuberta 

navire  sous  cape                     ^^M 

SalanJtoj 

salancolle 

compagnic  qui  sale                ^^M 

Osenbasch 

0  sen  hfiix 

entcpd  en  bas                         ^^M 

OtBrrjfroi 

o  terr  k  coll 

y  porte  la  terre  &  dos             ^^M 
cliargent  h  dos                        ^^M 

Duwan  Aoii' 

dou  fail  a  coll 

Kamyschly 

caini  geli 

chemin  froid                           ^^M 

lokcrmatm 

en  ker  mane 

commatide  dans  Ic  ro>         ^^M 
cher                                     ^^M 

THchaJtjfniirr 

salt  t'y  mires 

tu  prcnda  garde  en  sau-          ^^M 

1      Dulatschinn 

tant                                     ^H 

douUl  all  sim 

cruche  au  Bommet                  ^^M 

Dautebe 

d'alt  te  be 

de  haut  te  vicnt                      ^^M 

Taschaltsehititi 

t&xA  F&im 

taxG  Ic  sommet                       ^^M 

Saschkirgis 

baix  qui  regues 

en  bas  tu  arroscs                    ^^M 

Karshhije 

carroa  bie 

dirige  des  charrois                  ^H 

Taschkatschikk 

faxe  qu'es  bcc 

taxe,  il  fait  sec                          ^^M 

Ssabeke 
1 

sab  a  que 

aait  k  quoi                               ^^M 

P    Ssisbigutt 

s'cs  eagut 

s'est  isms                                ^^M 

1    Tabetschikk 

teu  be  sec 

le  Bee  t'eat  favorable               ^^M 

f     Tuluntschakk 

toulouuB  ajat 

madriers  tailles  (ou  tou-          ^^M 
louneiat,  couvert  de,          ^^M 

Ko'ihassann 

coll  a  sang 

col  ensaTiglant^                      ^^M 

Oiikuju 

tii  couyou 

ah !  par  Ics  tcsticules  1          ^^M 
(ou   Taeuf  du  teati-'         ^^M 

f    Ssaiygol 

cule)                                    ^^M 

sorrcguell 

gue  ensable                             ^^M 

Butegesch 

budegueis 

il  vcbdaDgi^                             ^H 

Butcgeon 

boudeguem 

vctidangeons                           ^^M 

Sseid  eli 

Bed  alii 

Boif  ll\                                        ^^M 

HassanD)>ci 

a  sang  be 

vient  au  sang                          ^^M 

Karagosa 

cairagos 

pesant                                         ^^m 

Bai'bugas 

bu  boiigas 

plantes  marecageus^             ^^1 
baues                               ^H 

1     Barakkkiill 

barraque  uH 

oeil  de  baraqoe                      ^H 

I                   b'ZQ                    hO&lGlH&    SCYTUO'CIMM^KIENNE                       ^H 

^^^^           Oi'thographe 

^^^H             allcmanrh; 

Roman. 

Frau^aif.                ^^H 

^^^1           Bakatasccli 

vac  a  taxc 

tache  dc  vache        ^^M 

^^^H          Imarett 

i  marete 

et  petite  mere                1 

^^^H           Kassyt^oV 

nas  y  t'coUe 

attele  par  le  nez       ,^^J 

^^^1           iMankcrmerui 

maDe  kcrmens 

commaude  atix  Tera^^f 

^^^H          TBchiigerti 

xucar  t'y 

t'y  nourrir                ^^M 

^^H           Sdicicli  Mmnoi 

scjc  mamc  alt 

le  ble  fin  tete  haut  ^^ 

^^^H            Basactsc!iik.k 

biiii^sai*  sec 

vereer  k  sec               ^^J 

^^^1          Otart&cliikk 

oil  tard  cbic 

dur  d'oreiUe             ^^M 

^^^F           Scbciuheli 

xex  olli 

ik  du  ble  nu             ^H 

^^^L           MuTBaio'y 

mursa  coll 

gazoii  juaqu'an  col  ^9 

^^H          BuTandukk 

bourrouu  due 

je  porte  des  bourgeons 

^^^H          Akktschora 

al  sorrfe 

au  sable 

^^^^             B  or  ri  aju 

bore  casa 

tuftiaoti  du  bord 

1                    OssmautscliLkk 

OS  macte  sec 

Tours  enveloppe  ii  sec 

I                 Kryiiitscliki 

crim  itscbqui 

que   Ic   criu   sorte  (ou 
Borfcir  de  Crimee] 

l^^           KargflJykk 

care  gallic 

visage  de  Gaulois 

^^B           Ssiiukka^saly 

80UC  sail! 

que  les  soucbes  sarteut 

^^^           Sstaryi  Kriium 

star  y  criiu 

que   ]q  criu  reste  (ou 

Tester  en  Crimee) 

^^H            ScLach  Mursa 

a'asmoursa 

on  dejeikQe 

^H           Elbusla 

alboLk 

couvert  d'arbres 

^^^F           Ortiilann. 

ortolans 

jardiuiej's                   .^^ 

H                  Kabakktascli 

cabat  taxe 

tase  bccbogB           ^^^| 

^^H            Koktebcl 

colguG  te  bcle 

k  bas  la  voile 

^^^K           Aiasci'cs 

a'lsseres 

haussiercs  (agres) 

^^^1          Turaktcisch 

turradas 

grand  amas  de  term 

^^^1                               > 

cuites 

^^^1           Taraktaech . 

tarradas 

groa  toit  eii  briqura 

^^^1           Karatschuiin 

carats  son 

ils  sout  confroutes 

^^H           Rasskule 

cacc  coule 

cherche  machine  icail- 
ler 

t^^            Botschela 

bo  gela 

bonne  glaoe 

i^^^h           Koiurauu 

colle  a  ram 

attele  dc  pres           ^^M 

^^^B           Boj  Dsliawlisch 

bai  saltts 

sauJes  iiatus             ^^| 

DR   LA   LANOUB    BOHANE. 


527 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

FranqaiB. 

AsBberdy 

asberdy 

couper  lea  buisaons 

Buragann 

bouragam 

troupeau  d'antenois  (ou 
bai^an,  fiit^ 

SBuinadshe 

souil  naxe 

naitre  saiis  cornea 

Tschokurtscha 

s'aBCOurcha 

a' Scorcher 

S^rische 

a'y  reixe 

s'y  r^usair  (ou  arroser) 

Dshinssofu 

sens  so  fu 

partit  sans  cela 

BodaDa 

bode  ana 

aller  &  la  noce 

Tschokurel 

Boqurrell 

genSt  ^pineux 

Mullawli 

mulla  lli 

mouiUe  le  lin 

Karagarr 

carragar 

changer 

Jamurtacha 

i  a  smurza 

y  a-t-il  h  dejeuner? 

Ssalgirtschikk 

saill  gire  sec 

toume  le  limon  sec 

ToUHk&i 

tote  al  coll 

bolt  au  d^fil^ 

Kilburunn 

quille  bouToam 

ponsse  dea  bonigeona 

Scku  Muchai 

xu  moucbail 

cbasse  lea  moustiqnea 

Apoitoii 

&  pa  a  coll 

chercher  le  pain  &  dos 

Tscheschmedshi 

s'esmetji 

ae  dirise  en  deux 

Aratukk 

ara  douc 

maintenant  je  porte 

Tscharoke 

aarro  que 

quoi  daus  la  beaace? 

Takondu 

ta  condu 

te  conduit 

Oachoa 

oils  Boua 

transpirer  dea  testicuica 

Karagatsch 

cairagats 

charg^ 

Kobasa 

cabassll 

mettre  en  cabaa 

Almutachikk 

alt  music 

haut  muaicien 

"WeiBsniki 

vesse  u'y  aqui 

versez  en  Uk 

Bijeli 

bi  geli 

vin  glac^ 

Kotschkajel 

coutje  ca  gel 

le  froid  fait  coucher  le 
chien 

Tacberkessjel 

cerques  gel 

tu  cherches  la  glace 

Kodshuchjel 

coutsout  gel 

glacier  coutoum^ 

Bagailj 

bac  alii 

coteau  expoae  au  nord 
1&  bas 

a^chii 

xii 

fuyez  (aux  Tolatilea) 

Jekibasch 

i  aqui  baix 

et  Ut-bas  au-deaaoos 

VOL.  VII. 

2n 

528 


l'oBIGINB   SOTTUO-CIMHiaiENNB 


Orthographe 
alietnande. 

Roman. 

i^attfasf. 

Barantschi 

barrafiii 

terrains  precipices  (ctr- 
rangs  j  barrangs} 

Sebile 

xiul^ 

lieu  oil  Toil  siffle 

Kasantschi 

caaan  8*7 

s'y  marient 

Kudaachikk 

coiistas  sec 

grosse  cdte  s^be 

Mentlerschik 

meller  chic 

amandier  nain 

Kasailarr 

casa  y  liar 

maisou  et  lard 

Tuwatai 

tout  fa  tail 

tout  sert 

Werchnaja 

vernaja 

hivemer 

Kermensche 

kermens^ 

amaa  de  vers 

Kentugai 

cante  gaill 

chante  coq 

Dermenshi 

dormen  s'y 

s'y  endorment 

Ko'ieli 

coll  geli 

Am6  glHcfi 

Biitanysch 

bi  y  taneix 

vin  y  teint 

Eirkkaanlj 

curcan  Hit 

creosent  nn  lit 

Kartmjscliykk 

cart  monssec 

bouch^  chhn 

Ssei'dmuTsa 

scythe  moursa 

le  scythe  d^jenne 

Dsbabaiiakk 

aabanat 

champ  d'ognons 

Esskenderr 

esquen  d'ere 

amorccnt  de  I'aire 

Aktatschi 

at  taxi 

je  t'impose  une  t&che 

Ssarabuss 

Ba  rabuste 

on  grappille 

Tschujuntschu 

sou  juuccib 

sous  la  jouction 

Chanjeli 

cam  geli 

cbamp  glac^ 

Bshamatai 

xam  a  taill 

semence  &  la  Yo\6e  pu 
partie 

Terenairr 

terreng  &  ire 

terrains  li  jurements 

Masanki 

niagenqui 

je  bine  la  vigue 

Fundukly 

found  doug  Hit 

lit  de  riviere  torrentielle 

Asaraatt 

a  samat 

a  dioainu^  (liquide) 

Hadshilarr 

atxi  Uar 

je  tranche  du  lard 

Akkkaja 

a  casa 

il  la  maiaon 

fiachtschieli 

bac  s'y  geli 

coteau  oppose  an  soldlj 
on  y  gele 

Mussabei 

murssa  bei 

je  Tois  du  gazon 

Scbeicbeli 

xex  alH 

\k  du  hU  &n 

DE   LA   LANGDE   BOHANK. 


529 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

Fratuiaia. 

Bork^a 

bore  casa 

maison  sur  le  bord 

Agane  eli 

agan^  alii 

d^p6t  de  jumenta  Ik 

Burasschan 

bonrrassan 

Be  servent  d'une  toile 

Otschinneli 

oixin  alii 

qn'ils  Rorteut  lit, 

Kasyeli 

case  geli 

maison  glac^ 

Kasanljr 

casan  Hi 

emmagasinent  du  lin 

Techerdikly 

Berredit  llit 

lit  de  rivifere  flev^ 

Ssartana 

sardana 

danse  des  cerdans 

Ailanniu  i 

ail  en  niu 

ail  au  nid"' 

ou       > 
A'daama  J 

ail  en  ma 

ail  en  main** 

Tschermnlikk 

germa  Hit 

fiire  au  lit 

Schegene 

cegnen^ 

lien  oil  I'on  moissonne 

TschagaDn 

cegan'y 

moissonnez  y 

UU              > 

TschigeneJ 

xique  n^ 

relevez  en 

Kultepe 

cul  te  pet 

le  derriere  tient  le  vent 
(ott  cull  stepe) 

Karalarr 

cara  liar 

visage  long 

BeschjewU 

beix^  Hi 

mauvaise  recolte  de  lin 

Malbabtschikk 

malbat  seque 

le  m^hant  se  desa^he 

Kanrama 

cans  ramat 

chiens  de  beiger 

Hadshieli 

assi  alii 

par  ci  par  \k 

TschokkbeBcbkoii  boc  pmw  coll 

p^se  le  boia  h.  dos 

Akkburunn 

al  bouroun 

au  bourgeon 

Tschambasch 

tarru  baix 

basse  besace 

Fetrnfit 

pedra  fil 

pierre  affilfie 

Jailadagh 

geladas 

lieu  glacial 

Karadagh 

keradas 

amas  de  rochers 

Fakalldagh 

pa  cal  das 

lieu  oUt  le  pain  manque 

Demirdshi 

temirs'y 

y  prendre  garde 

Korbekly 

cor  be  nalia 

le  cceur  devient  chaud 

^  Ou  aislan  aia — isoleot  le  nid. 
^  Ou  aislan  ma — isoleot  la  main. 


2^a 


530 


l'origine  8cttho-cihh£rienne 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

-Roman. 

Fran^U. 

Aluschta 

a  I'uix  sta 

est  prSt  k  sortir 

Jeaikoi 

gen  J  colle 

J  attele  des  homme* 

Dermenftot 

dormen  colle 

dorment  par  troupe 

Parthenil 

par  tenil* 

pour  retemr 

Dshantschora 

s'ansorra 

s'ensable 

Hijali 

y  geli 

j'y  gele 

Daudeli 

dende  Hi 

dette  en  lin 

Tobetschikk 

t'o  beig  sec 

je  te  vols  li  see 

Schungulekk 

Boum  guulet 

canal  superficiel 

TJaunlarr 

usen  liar 

emploient  le  lard 

Schleiehhaasann 

cegassan 

moissonnent  mal 

Kopptakill 

cop  da  quille 

coup  de  quille 

Ssuineli 

souin  alii 

qu'ils  snent  ]k 

Scburelekk 

sourrelet 

petit  amas  de  table 

Kirkkkojasch 

curque  jasse 

creuse  une  conr 

Kobani 

coban  j 

J  creusent  (on  con  bafi;, 
bain  qui  cuit) 

rsoquerrat  coll 

d^fil^  brOlg 

Tschokrakkkoi  ■ 

oil 

ou 

.sorrat  guell 

gue  ensable 

PuBchakai' 

puja  cal 

il  faut  monter 

Barischkannn 

ba  risquan 

cours  le  risque 

Kluoba 

cloba 

enveloppe 

Schuraukai 

xu  mucail 

chasse  la  morve 

SchemerdauD 

s'esraerdan 

ont  la  diarrhee 

Tschelebi 

xelibi 

je  aalive 

Kupassdinn 

cupas  dins 

coupes  dedans 

Kukuoba 

cou  coba 

caveme  qui  cuit  (toIcsii 
de  17'j4) 

Kerkinitt 

ker  cngniet 

pierre  &  coin 

Perecop 

pera  cop 

pierre  &  coup 

DE    LA    LANOUB    KOUANE. 


631 


Bm-da  de  la  Mer  d'Atoff  el  dt  la  Mer-Notre,    Bivih-et. 

fAndriveau  Qov^onJ 

Orthoffre^he 
Jrangaise. 

Roman. 

Fran^ait. 

Tch^tachil  (cours 

chSte  agil 

robinet  afple 

d'eau) 

Karaak  (id.) 

scarsat 

nettoy^ 

Apanli  (id.) 

a  panne  Ilit 

lit  plat 

Doniouzli  (id.) 

danious  Ilit 

lit  dangereux 

Antchokrak  (id.) 

ansorrat 

ensabl^ 

Molatcha  (id.) 

mollassa 

humidites 

Mastchenak  (id.) 

matzinat 

empoisonn^ 

Molotcfaouie  (id.) 

MalaJia  Outliouka 

mal  aja  ullou 

■ 

(id.) 
Bolchua  Outliouka 

bol  s'aga  ullou 

maudit             j, 
1  1    beni   J 

(id.) 

[ka  term.) 

J 

Outliouka  (id.) 

oullou 

cours  d'eaa 

Chekli  Jouchanli  (id.) 

aecalli  juncalli 

joncs  qni  se  s^hent 

Behimtchokrak  (id.) 

vehins  sorrat 

Toisins  ensabl^s 

Eaux  de  la  Mer-Noire. 

Earatchikrak  (cours 

carat  girat 

face  et  revers 

d'eau) 

Bielozerka  (id.) 

bie  lo  cert  {ka 
term.) 

dirige  le  bien 

Podgalna,  on  Fodn 

potte  gallna 

patte  de  gallinac^ 

(point  du  Duieper) 

- 

Konka,  on  Eonskaia 

.  conca 

grande  aasiette 

(cours  d'eau) 

Podpalna  (id.) 

pote  palna 

patte  de  pal 

Kozalskai'a  (id.) 

casalqueja 

construit  dea  monticules 

Tchaika  (id.) 

xeca 

releve  (ou  cbai-agneau 
ka  term.) 

Dnieper 

niu  perd 

perd  le  nied 

on          (fleuve) 

on 

ou 

BoiystheneJ 

bores  ten 

tient  danfl  sea  bords 

632 


l'oBJGINE   SCTTHO-CIHH^RIBNNS 


Ortkographe 
frangaise. 

Ingoulets  {couTB  d'eau 

tortaeux) 
Ingoul  (id.) 
Boug  (fleuve) 
Tsar^oi  (coure  d'eau) 
Telegout  (id.) 
Bala'itcbouk  (id.) 
Maliiadjalik  (id.) 
Boladjalik  (id.) 
Sredniikouialnik  (id.) 


Eoman. 

Frangait. 

engouUeix 

avale 

engoull 

avale 

bouc 

ruche  h  mid 

sorre  giiell 

sable  au  gu£ 

tela  goute 

s'infiltre 

sbalajit  xouc 

Uquide  qui  dispanut 

malehi  jga  Uifl  maudit-1  ^^^^^^  ^  ^ 
bol  aja  Iht       J    b^oi    J 

Maliikouialnik  (id.)     malebi  coxal  net 


s'reteni   coxal    -i  ,,  T 


Bords  de  la  Mer  d'Azoff.     Bitfihva.     fAHdritaut  Gm^omJ 


Kouban  (fleuve) 

coban 

creusement 

Napsoukkou  (cours 

naps  chongou 

breuvage  des  naveta 

d'eau) 

Kroucoups  (id.) 

croc  coutse 

croc  coude 

Kroukhats  (id.) 

croc  caps 

croc  en  pointe 

Zbiouga  (id.) 

s'biga 

admet  une  passerelle 

Nepsal  (id.) 

nepsal 

champ  de  navets 

Atakoum  (id.) 

atacoum 

ecluses 

Koudakho  (id.) 

coue  da  ca 

queue  de  chien 

Kara  Koutian  (id.) 

cara  kouban 

parallele  du  Kouban 

Protoka  (id.) 

prat  toca 

touche  aux  praries 

Boughour  (id.) 

boukour 

lieu  de  ruches  il  miel 

Soulou  Koulek  (id.) 

solo  gutet 

goulet  de  sole 

Tcliermaiprotok 

germal  prat  tO' 

.  touche  lea  pres  frater- 

(id.) 

que 

nellement 

Rozaltchiierik  (id.) 

casal  s'y  es  ric 

maison  s'y  enrichit 

Angali  (id.) 

angulli 

avaler 

Nosov  (id.) 

nasou 

en  forme  de  nez 

Skalovatoio  (id.) 

scalibat  olio 

cours  eflarouch^  (diw- 
mine) 

DR   LA    LANOUX   ROHANK. 


533 


Orthographe 
franqaise. 

Lagouinik  (id.) 
Don  (fleuve  avec 
les  8  bouches :] 

Temovoie 

Starii  V^ourtcha 

Mokram  Kolan- 
tcha 
Jelantchik  (coura 

d'eau) 
Kalmious  (id.) 
Kattchik  (id.  tr^ 

tortueux) 
Bielosarai  (id.) 
Mokraia  (id.) 
ZelenaJia  (id.) 
Kanaitcbevata  (id.) 
Berda  (id.) 

Keltoch  (id.) 
I)jeniia!gach  (id.) 

ou 
Obitotchiuaa 


Roman. 

Tajrga  teoit 
done 


F)rantjaM, 

Peaa  teinte 
femme 


terre  nova  terre  uouvelle 

star  7  b^  coor-  estaries  dangereuaes 

retja 

m'o  cma  cabm-  estaries  tranquilles 

ca 

y  es  llanxit  parconru  par  les  nacel- 
les 

calmiooB  bords  &  pic 

gat  cbic  petit  chat 


bie  lo  sarral 

mou  croia 

saliueja 

cam  Ida  civada 

berda 

giiell  toque 
germalgas 

ou 
o  bitotjcueja 


dirige  le  sable 
entraSne  de  la  craie 
contient  du  limon  on  sel 
chemiu  de  I'avoine 
Be  courre  de  buissons  et 

ronces 
touche  le  gu^ 
lieu  de  production 

ou 
se  couTie  de  pinnes  ma- 
rines 


Crimie.     Capt,  edtti,  riviiret,  mtmtagnet,  itangs,  etc.     (Handike.) 

Roman.  Fran^ait. 

teg 


T^e  (riviere) 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

il  tisse   (le   Tech,  riv. 
Pyr.-Or.) 
Owra£^scha:irli  (id.)    ouragge  charli     fait  du  bruit  apr^  To- 

rage 
Ssalgirr  (id.)  saill  gire  roule  du  limou 

Bulganakk  (id.)  boulquanat  renverae 


634 


L'OBltilNB    SGTTHO-GIHHiRIENNS 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Fmnan. 

Frangm*. 

Bc^hass  (riviere) 

bogas 

plein  de  plantes  roMii- 
cagenses 

Karava  (id.) 

creba 

sort  de  son  lit 

Ssamartschikk  (id.) 

saniar  sec 

le  desB^cher  toot  ^  &it 

Tscheterlikk  (id.) 

xeter  llit 

lit  de  robinet 

Owragkakai  (id.) 

oura^e  cagail 

d^Toiement 

Alma  (id.) 

a  le  ma 

h,  la  main 

Bodrakk  (id.) 

boterrat 

barr^ 

Meneor  (id.) 

m^nor 

mineur 

Kuisse  (id.) 

coass^ 

se  d^bat 

Katscha  (id.) 

catsa 

caisse 

Marta  (id.) 

marda 

laxatif  (riv.  Merde, 
Pyr.-Or.) 

Chatana  (id.) 

cheta  ana 

couler  en  robiuet 

Stilia  (id.) 

stilia 

clari6e 

Bojukkusen'i  (id.avec 
ou          -canal  et 
TBchernaja  J  prise 

;  b£  ioug  usen 

s'eo  servant  tout  droit 

serren  alia 

on  r^tr^it  Ik 

d'eaa) 

Schulu  (id.) 

gelou 

glace 

BaVdarr  (id.) 

badar 

rester  b^ant 

Aratukk  (id.) 

ara  tout 

laboure  tout 

Malssalgirr  (id.) 

mal  saill  gire 

mauvais  limon  entruoe 

Tschujuntschu  (id.) 

sou  junctio 

sous  le  confluent 

Beschterekk  (id.) 

basse  te  rec 

deverse-toi,  riviere 

Suja  assma  (id.) 

sua  a  sama 

diminue  k  peine 

Funduklu  (id.) 

fund  dug  lou 

fond  qui  porte  (glace) 

Montana!  (id.) 

moutagnal 

vient  des  montagnes 

Burultsclia  (id.) 

bourroulleja 

floconneux 

Tschurukkesa  (id.) 

churuqueja 

par  petit  filet 

Tunass  (id.) 

tunas 

emport^ 

Aschil  (id.) 

agil 

rapide 

Andal  (id.) 

andal 

reyoit  lea  pares  de  bre- 
bis 

Kuru  Andal  (id.) 

<!Ourrou  andal 

alimente  Vandal  (sap* 
port  ou  gond) 

DE   LA    LAMOUI   ROHAKE. 


535 


Orthoffraphe 
allemande. 

Ssubasch  (riviere) 
Nachitschewantscho- 

kakk  (id.) 
Tachurukkssu  (id.) 
Aluschta  (id.) 
Dsbaldachann  (cap) 
Kaldantipp  (id.) 

Kasantipp  (id.) 
Bettgeltipp  (id.) 
Karamrunn  (id) 
Eskiforos       i 

ou         I  (id.) 
Tarchan  KnttJ 
Oi'ratt  Urrett  (id.) 
Baba  (id.) 

ou       I  (id.) 

Lukull      J 
ChersoDes  (id.) 
Aja  (id.) 
Ssaritech  (id.) 
Kikineiss  (id.) 
Nikita  (id.) 
Tschikenn  (id.) 
Meganomm  (id.) 
Karadagh  (id.) 
Kiitatlama  (id.) 
Tschawdar        *) 

on  I  (id 

TaschkatschikkJ 
Dunnenn  (id.) 
Sykk  (id.) 
Fanar  (id.) 


Roman. 

B^&baixe 
naxit  se  ban 

chacat 
chnraqneBson 
a  lou  cheta 
aalt  da  cans 
caldo  an  tip 

ca^an  tip 
d'angnille  tip 
keram  grftn 
esqui  fora 

tarrejon  coata 
ora  tnrrat 
baba 

ulu  cull 

kersons 
alia 

Ba  risqne 
qui  que  n'eix 
niu  quita 
xiquen 
magan  om 
kerada 

qui  7  tact  la  ma 
safedar 
)      ou 

taxe  qu'ets  sec 
dormen 
sec 
&nar 


FVanfoi*. 

baisse 

sitdt  n^  sitdt  Aivi6  pour 

I'arrosage 
petit  filet 
au  robinet 
saut  de  cbiens 
cordial  poor  Pindiges- 

tion 
chassent  I'indigestiou 
indigestion  d'anguilles 
rochen  qui  grondent 
j'amorce  debon 

cdte  terreuse 
bord  dess&b^ 
il  bave 

hurlement  recneille 

rocheis 

en  dehors 

hasardeux 

qui  en  sort 

laisse  son  nid 

relevent 

cachent  I'homme 

amas  de  rochers 

ici  on  donne  la  main 

sauvetage 

ou 
taxe  ce  qui  est  sec 
lis  dorment 
see 

tatvailler  vite  (on  fan. 
ar,  font  des  filets) 


536 


l'oRIGINK  BCTTHO-GIHHiailMMX 


Ortkographe 
ttllemande. 

Roman. 

FranfVM. 

Akkburunn  (cap) 

al  brun 

ail  Tocfaer  qui  brille  (li 
Bont  deaeatu  miii^^.- 

rales) 

Takli  (id.) 

te  caliu 

est  chaud 

Opukk  (id.) 

ou  pout 

seut  Fceuf 

Tnsla  (id.) 

tous  alia 

gu^t  la  toux 

Fana^  (id.) 

panaja 

produire  du  pain 

Kiachla  (id.) 

qn'ix  alia 

qui  sort  lili 

Pekla  (id.) 

be  cla 

a'^aircit 

MysskamennoY  (id.) 

m'iiqua  manoll  sorte  un  homme  de 

main 

Schegene  ' 

c^nen^ 

oa        '  (falaises' 

)      ou 

'  lieu  k  moissonner 

Tschagani  J 

cega  n'y 

Ajudagh  (cap) 

ayuda 

aide 

BojukkkarasBu  (riv.) 

b€  iouk  kersou 

droit  rocailleux 

Kutschukkkaraasu 

coutzout  kerso 

coudd  rocailleux 

(id.  nffl.) 

Temirdshi  (id.) 

temir  s'y 

y  prendre  garde 

Andussu  (id.) 

andou  s'ou 

entr^ne  avec  lui 

Ssujukkssu  (id.) 

sou  junccio 

sous  le  conflueDt 

Usskuttuscn  (id.) 

escoute  ou  sena 

ecoute,  tu  Tentends 

Bajbugas  (id.) 

bai'  bougas 

bas  depot  de  plantea 
marecageuses 

Zykur  (etang  sale) 

s'y  curt 

y  a  cours 

Halilalgil  (id.) 

ft  I'ille  al  guill 

k  rile  le  rocher 

Kirkk  (id.) 

curq 

creuz 

Kirleutt  (id.) 

ker  leu 

roc  l^ger 

Tarkann  (id.) 

tarrejan 

la  terre  y  paraJt 

Doukuslaff  (id.  inte- 

rieur) 

Missirr         i 

ou             (etang) 
Tachokrakk  J 

miseri 

misere 

ou 

ou 

Boquerrat 

dess^clie 

DE   LA   LANGVE   BOUANX. 


537 


Ortkographe 
aliemantk. 

Roman.- 

F)rangais, 

TobetuchikkT   , 
Ortel,  etc.   J         ' 

ta  beig  sec . 
ou 

je  te  Tois  k  snc 
on 

ortal 

jardins 

PakaUdagb  (pic  Ai- 

pa  cal  da 

il  faut  donner  da  pain 

Bert)       ' 

Ssamarkaja  (id.) 

sa  marca  ja 

commenoe  h,  indiqner 
d^j& 

Tiirkdagh  (id.) 

tira  queda 

Tattelage  •'air^te 

Paratlidagh  (id.) 

parat  U  da 

pr^  lui  donne 

Jenikdi  (id.) 

gen  y  colle 

gens  attMe 

Ssewernaja  Kossa 

s'hiberniya  cos< 

cdte  k  hivemer 

(langoe  de  terre 

ta 

qui  abhte) 

Kukuoba  (Eruption 

coii  coba 

careme  qui  cuit 

de  1794) 

Jushnaja  Koesa  (lan- 

just,  n'a,  y,  a. 

juste  il  y  en  aj  cdte 

gue  ^troite  sur  le 

costa 

Bosphore  cimm™. 

Axabatss  Kaja  Kossa  arabats,  casa. 

c6te  de  la  maiaon  de  d^ 

(langue  etroite  ea- 

costa 

fense  avanc^ 

tre  mer  et  qui  porte 

laroutedepnisAra- 

batk  Jenitscbi  Ton- 

ka) 

Tschuruktupp  (ile  in- 

chounoup tape 

arrdte  les  infiltrations 

habit^  oa  banc  de 

sable) 

Tscbongarr  (id.) 

joncar 

amas  de  jonca 

Kossadsharillagatsch 

costa  samllagaB  c6te  de  sable  fin  mau- 

(id.)^ 

Tais 

Karabai  (ilot  inha- 

cara  bai 

visage  bas 

bit«) 

Chorali  (presqutle 

florrali 

amas  de  sable 

inhabit^) 

Tscharikk  (id.) 

charriq 

infiltratitm 

538 


l'oRIGINE   SCTTHO-CIHHiaiENNE 


Orthographe 
allemande. 

Roman. 

Fran^ait, 

KuttMetscheslyadas-  costa  me  geli 

cdte  je  gfde  dMci 

sy  (cdte  avanc6e  d^ 

d'assy 

Berte) 

Ktitt  Tschantalanu 

costa  gentulans  cdte  o^  I'on  aborde 

(id.) 

beaucoup 

S8ai*ibulat(pointeid.) 

sarrill  Tolat 

Bable  fia  qui  vole 

Belbek  -j 

bela  b^ 

Toile  j'aper9ois 

ou       ■  (baie) 

ou 

ou 

Kabarla- 

caberUi 

mettre  &  la  cape 

Sstrelezkaja  (id.) 

Btrelles  casa 

maison  des  etoiles 

Pesstachanaja  (id.) 

pescbuDE^a 

poissonner 

Kamyschewaja  (id.) 

camis  se  vaya 

BC  mettre  en  route 

Kosatsclikaja  (id.) 

cossats  casa 

maison  des  conpe  de 
pied  (cosaques) 

Kurtyribnrunn  (c6te)  kurq  tin  bou- 

caveme  d' Eruptions  toI 

Tofin 

caniques 

Koktebel  (baie) 

couc  te  bel 

amene  la  voile 

Tekich  (id.) 

te  qui 

te  voilk  arrive 

Dshemetri  (presqu'ile 

et  baie) 

Kuban  (baie) 

coban 

creusent 

Kysyltasch  (d^troit) 

quissiltas 

lieu  d'excitation 

Mer-Noire. 

Rivieres,     (Andriveau   Goujon.J 

Orthographe 

Roman. 

fYangais. 

franfaise. 

Soianilo  (cours  d'eau) 

Koutchourgan  (id.) 

coste  sourregani 

1  approche  des  sables 

Dniester  (0euve) 

Alkalia  (cours  d'eau) 

alt  alia 

haut  debors 

Kaplani  (id.) 

qu'aplani 

combien  je  nivelle 

Khadjider  (id.) 

catxi  d'era 

je  prends  du  sol 

Saratto  (id.) 

sorrado 

ensabl^ 

Tchilighider  (id.) 

xelligueder 

^pouvautail 

DX  LA  LAMOUK  EOllANS. 


539 


Orlhogrt^he 
fran^aiae. 

Roman, 

^OltfOW. 

Tchaghe  (coura  d'eau 

chegue 

avengle 

Drakoulia  (id.) 

trascola 

traniivaae 

Danube  et  Encirtnu. 

Danub  (fleave) 

da  nnbi 

donne  man 

Kilia  (bouche) 

quilla 

drease 

Soulina  (id.) 

salina 

salin 

Salmanor   - 

aaill  ma  nove 

limoD  k  main  nouvelle 

Otnojika 

OBt  noa  jika 

cfaasse  I'bdte  noaveau 

Ermakova 

-(Silots)  faerma  cora 

caveme  d^rte 

Malzinor 

matsinou 

empoisonD^ 

Tchemii    - 

aerre  niu 

Did  a  scie 

Matitsa      -\ 

matissa 

terrain  couvert  d'ar- 

(Slacfl 

bustes 

Badakoul 

au  8ud] 

rat  da  coul 

rat  sur  bod  derri^ 

Louniao     j 

loa  oino 

le  petit  enfant 

Nomt  proprea  de  Gauloit  oa  Oermaint  meniioHn^$  doM  let  Commen- 
tmre*  de  Ceaar,  avec  leur  tignificatioH  approximative  en  Boman  et 
traduction  fran^aUe  en  regard. 


Latin. 

Boman. 

Fran^aiB. 

Ambigat 

ambigat 

poutres  k  leur  place 

Ariovist 

a  riou  bist 

TU  Jl  la  riviere 

Ambiprix 

an  biou  ric 

qui  rit  en  riche 

Acco 

aco 

cela 

Emporedorix 

emparedo  ric 

empereur  riche 

Critognatus 

grito  nats 

j'appeUe  les  enfants 

Antebro^na 

an  te  brougues 

qui  possede  des  broos- 
sailles 

^gos 

oeiigues 

jumenta 

Roscillus 

rosill 

diminutif  de  rose 

Adcautannos 

at  canf  anys 

te  chante  les  ann^ 

BelloTesua 

bello  besec 

ta  baises  la  toison 

540 


l'oRIOINE   SCTTHO-CIMlliBUHNE 


Latin. 
Beduognatiu 
Caborus 
CassivellauiiaB 
Camulo^nus 

Carvillius 
Casticiu 
Cataman  teles 
CatiTulcus 
Cabarillns 

Cararinus 
Cimberins 

Cingetorix 

ComiuB 

Conetodunos 

Cotuatns 

ConrictoHtanis 

Corbexis 

CotUB 

Divicus 

Divitiacus 

Drapes 

Dutnnacus 

Dumiiorix 

Duracius 

Epasoactus 

Qalba 

Gobanitio 

Gutumatus 

Icciua 

Immanuentiua 

Induciomarus 

Liscus 


Roman. 
be  dou  nats 
cabrouB 
caci  bellanas 
ca  moil  lo  gens 

garbills 
castics 
cata  mantels 
cat  J  boulques 
cabreilles 

caba  rims 
sim  beu  rius 

rin  jeto  ric 

camis 

contedonns 

cotats 
convido  les  day- 

nes 
cort  beus 
costous 
diu  bisques 
dibiBsats 
drapes 
dounats 
douno  ric 
dourases 
a  pas  nats 
gale  ba 
coba  neteje 
gots  tournats 
ixius 

amanuense 
inducix  maras 
llisques 


Framfou, 

porte  bien  les  enbiits 

cherreaux 

je  cherche  des  nouettes 

chien  qui  chaaae  le  pu- 
blic 

graviers 

chftdments 

abaisse  les  manteani 

chat  tu  y  tombes 

constellation  dea  Fl£a- 
des 

traTaille  les  Taiains 

le  Bommet  domine  la 
rivieres 

riche  sans  ou  seal  jetoa 

chemins 

comptoirs 

courb^ 

j'invite  les  bicbes 

le  bniit  court 

coliteux 

vive  Dieu ! 

divises 

drapiers 

donnas 

donne  en  riche 

tres-durea 

n^s  au  pas 

Toici  les  r^jouiasancea 

nettoie  la  caverne 

Goths  revenns 

sortez 

ex6cnteur  testamentaire 

conseille  les  meres 

tu  glisses 


DE  LA   LANGUX   EOHANS. 


541 


Latin. 

Roman. 

^angttu. 

Litavicas 

Uitat  bisques 

qae  ta  vires  alit£  I  (Ln- 
dovic) 

Mandubratus 

mandoa  baratas  je  dirige  lea  ^changes 

Moritasgtu 

mori  tasques 

impels  sur  les  morta 

Kasua 

na  sua 

il  transpire 

Numenis 

noumera 

nombrea 

Ollovico 

otdla  viaque 

vive  la  mannite  I 

Piao 

pixo 

voies  urinaires 

Segonax 

aehonats 

aasaiaonn^ 

Sedolioi 

ae  doliea 

qu'il  ae  plaignit 

SigoTenu 

ceigA  beaaaa 

tu  r^pands  le  bl6  eoua 

ta  faucille 

SuroB 

Bouroos 

chSnea  k  li£ge 

Tasgetias 

d'aaquetiat 

d'^mondages 

Taximagaltu 

taxi  maa  gou- 

je  taxe  mea  bonches  k 

lous 

nourrir 

Teatomatua 

tout  0  mataa 

tn  brises  tout 

Vercingetorix 

ber  tan  jeto  ric 

vrai  ricbe  aana  un  jeton 

Verodoctius 

bero  docto 

vrai  sarant  (H€n>dote?) 

Vedeliacas 

bedellata 

veaux  nit 

Vergaaillauiiiu 

beigaa  a  liana 

bfttons  ik  lancer 

Yertisctu 

berdiasona 

buissons  verts 

Viridovii 

biri  doa  bici 

je  quitte  le  vice 

Yiridomarui 

biri  dou  mars 

je  quitte  les  men 

Vocio 

baiisia 

fflonie 

542 


XIX.— ON  ANCIENT  RUINS  IN  THE  NEIGHBOURHOOD 
OF  MISSOLONGHI. 

BT  D.  B.  COLNAQHI,  ESQ.,  H.M.  CONSUL,  BABTIA.  . 

(Letter  addreued  to  C.  T.  Newton,  Esq.,  M.R.S.L.,  uid  Keeper  of 
the  ClaBBical  AntiqaitieB,  British  Miueam.) 

(Read  April  14th.  1863.) 

Chrnea,  Mireh,  1863. 
My  dear  Mr.  Newton, 

I  had  hoped,  before  leaving  Greece,  to  make  a 
complete  survey  of  the  plain  of  Missolonghi,  but  I  have 
been  compelled  to  leave  my  work  unfinished,  and  hare 
only  gathered,  in  addition  to  the  details  of  New  Pleuroo' 
forwarded  in  1861,  the  few  notes  which  I  now  send  yoa. 
They  were  taken,  at  different  times,  in  1860  and  1861. 
I  make  Missolonghi,  as  a  central  point,  my  starting- 
post. 

Remains  near  Chilia  Spitia. 

On  the  side  of  a  low  double-crested  hill,  a  spur  of 
Mount  Aracynthus  (Zygos),  but  separated  from  the 
main  range  by  a  narrow  tract  of  plain-land,  are  traces 
of  a  roughly-built  wall  with  towers.  On  the  top  of 
the  higher  crest  of  the  hill  are  the  foundations  of  a 
building  about  eleven  paces   by   nine,  composed  of 

'  Proceedings  of  Royal  Society  of  Literature,  vol.  viL  new  Eeries. 


NEIGHBOURHOOD    OF    MISSOLONGHI, 


543 


I  squared  blocks.     Other  foundations  mEky  be  observed 

P  on  the  lower  summit.  The  walls  in  their  circuit  round 

the  hill  can  barely  be  traced  ;  they  are  more  distinct 

on  the  west  than  on  the  east  side,  and  appear  to  have 

I  been  of  the  rudest  construction. 
The  part  of  the  plaia  below  the  hill  is  called  Chilia 
Spitia  [XiXta  ^TTtTta),  from  the  remains  of  houses  scat- 
tered over  it.     A  village  existed  here,  I  believe,  before 
Missolonghi  was  inhabited. 

In  the  neighbourhood  of  Chilia  Spitia,  at  a  spot 
called  Djaffer  Pasha,  guided  by  a  Greek  friend,  I  dug 
■  for  tombs,  but  unsuccessfully.  The  place  of  search 
was  the  garden  of  a  small  farm,  where  tombs  con- 
structed of  slabs  of  country  stone,  roughly  squared,  had 
been  found  some  Uttle  time  ago.  The  tombs  contained 
one  or  two  small  vases,  but  these  had  been  lost  or 
broken. 

I  Rather  nearer  Missolonghi,  not  far  from  the  chapel 
of  Agios  Jani,  are  the  remains  of  a  Byzantine  building, 
constructed  of  large  and  small  bricks,  probably  a 
church.  I  noticed  here  fragments  of  a  large  earthen- 
ware crock,  similar  to  those  found  by  Mr.  F.  Calvert 
on  the  plains  of  Troy,"^  Byzantine  copper  coins  are 
found  occasionally  in  the  plain. 


Muins  at  Kurtaga  (CalydonJ. 

One  hour  and  thirty-five  minutes  to  the  east  of 
Missolonghi,  but  west  of  the  Evenus,  are  the  ruins  of 
Kurtaga,  which  are  considered  by  Colonel  Leake,  with 
every  appearance  of  probability,  to  mark  the  site  of 
the  once  famous  city  of  Calydon. 

^  '  Archffiological  Journal,'  vol.  ivi,  p,  L 

VOL.  VII.  'I  O 


544 


ON    ANCIENT    RCITtS    IN    THE 


I 


Sitnation. — The  city  was  built  in  a  valley,  formed 
"by  the  last  slopes  of  Mount  Aracynthus.  round  (he 
summits  of  which  the  walls  extend,*  passing,  on  the 
north-east  side,  towards  the  plain  of  the  Evenus,  which 
river,  a  little  above  this  point,  debouches  from  the 
mountains  on  to  the  plain  in  its  rapid  course  to  the 
sea.  On  tlie  south  the  ruins  stretch,  by  a  long  wall 
terminating  in  a  mass  of  foundation,  to  the  plain  of 
Missolonghi. 

The  Acropolis  surmounts  the  height  which  rises 
above  the  city-  It  appears  to  have  been  strongly  for- 
tified, and  traces  of  a  square  citadel  or  keep,  flanked 
by  towers,  are  visible  in  the  centre.  The  south.west 
end,  its  highest  point,  is  a  raass  of  rubbish  ;  and  the 
wall,  which,  I  think,  extended  along  the  inner  front, 
can  barely  be  traced.  The  view  from  the  top  is  fine^ 
embracing  towards  the  goulh  Mount  Varasova  (Chalas]^ 
which  bounds  the  rich  plain  of  Buchoro-Galata'  with 
its  tiiick  marshy  covers,  where  wi!d  boars  are  still 
found,  and  througli  which  the  Evenus  winds  on  its 
way  to  the  Gulf  of  Patras.  Across  the  blue  sea,  rise 
the  mountains  of  Peloponnesus.  Towards  the  north- 
east lie  the  bold  mountains  of  iEtolia,  whence  the  river 
issues  on  to  the  plain. 

Extent. — The  whole  circuit  of  the  walls  is  considered 
by  Colonel  Leake  to  be  two  miles  and  a  half,  but  \  do 
not  make  it  more  than  a  mile  and  three-quarters.  The 

^  The  rough  sketch  of  the  wa]]?  which  accompanies  the&«  notes. » 
Sutjinitlcd  for  inspection  with  enme  hesitation  i  hut  though  unfioislitfi 
it  is,  I  hope,  Eufficlently  correct  to  give  an  Mea  of  the  gencTBl  jifin 
of  the  city ;  it  will,  nt  all  events,  assist  the  description, 

*  So  tLe  east  extremity  of  the  plnin  of  Missalanghr  is  termed,  (rom 
the  two  villages  of  Buchuii  and  Galatik. 


I 


NBIGHBOUBHOOD    OF    KI8S0L0NGHI, 


545 


I 


I 


I 


city  liOTvever  probably  extended  outside  the  walls  to- 
wards towards  the  plain  on  the  east  side.  It  is  rather 
more  than  five  miles  from  Kurtaga  to  the  sea,  at  the 
base  of  Mount  Varasova. 

On  approaching  the  ruins  from  Missolonghi,  the  first 
object  noticed  is  tiie  mass  of  foundation  (G,  PI.  I.  and 
PI.  IE.),  built  at  the  end  of  a  narrow  spur  of  the  moun- 
tain, at  the  entrance  to  the  valley.  This  consists  of  a 
frontage  wall  of  Cyclopean  construction  facinfr  the 
north-west,  built  of  large  blocks,  roughly  hewn  on  the 
outside,  but  carefully  fitted  together,  with  lead,  I  think, 
in  some  places.  The  present  height  of  this  basement 
is  twenty-six  feet  four  inches.  On  it,  perhaps,  stood 
the  temple  of  Artemis  Laphria  (Colonel  Leake's  sug- 
gestion). On  the  top  is  a  pavement  of  square  slabs. 
The  remains  of  walls,  portions  of  the  basement,  are 
visible  round  the  head  of  the  spur. 

From  this  point  are  traces  of  walls,  proceeding 
■prth-east  along  the  spur  towards  the  city,  as  far  as 
the  ruined  chapel  of  Agios  Jani,  one  end  of  which 
rests  on  ancient  foundations.  Seventy-four  paces 
north-east  of  this  chapel,  the  city  walls  begin,  and 
pass  north-west  along  the  bank  of  a  small  rivulet. 

Walb. — The  walls,  though  much  mined,  are  trace- 
able throughout  nearly  their  whole  circuit.  They  are 
built  of  squared  linnestone  blocks  of  various  sizes,  and 
are  in  general,  more  especially  those  of  Acropolis, 
constructed  with  care,  though  not  of  high  antiquity. 
Their  average  breadth  is  about  eight  feet.  Every  ac- 
cident of  ground  is  taken  advantage  of  for  defence: 
where  there  are  no  towers,  salient  angles  protect  the 
intervening  walls,  so  that  from  no  point,  in  an  attack, 
would  the  assailants  have  escaped  a  flank  fire  of 
arrows.  2  o  2 


546 


ON    ANCIENT    RUINS    IN    THE 


Toicers. — Traces  of  about  twenty-two    towers  ma^ 
still  be  observed.     Their  frontage  varies  from  twenty 
to  twenty-seven  feet  ;  their  projection  from  eleven  to 
sixteen  feet.    The  corner  blocks  of  some  of  the  towers 
are  cushioned. 

Gaits. — There  were  two  principal  gates  ;  one  on  tbe 
south  (A,  Pt.  I.  and  PL  III.)  and  the  other  on  the 
north-east  side  of  the  city  (C,  PL  I.).  The  modem 
path,  used  by  the  peasants  who  bring  wood  to  Misso- 
longhi,  still  passes  through  both.  There  are  three 
smaller  gates  still  visible  (B,  D,  E,  PI.  I.).  The  en- 
trance to  the  Acropohs  is  quite  destroyed. 

Buildings. — Foundations  of  buildings,  constructed 
of  squared  blocks,  may  be  traced  in  various  parts  of 
the  Polis,  and  beyond  the  walls  on  the  lower  slopes  of 
the  liill  leading  down  to  the  plain  of  the  Evenus.  Out- 
side, but  adjoining,  north-east  wall  (F,  PL  I.)  are  the 
foundations  of  a  circular  building  (tower?)  about  eight 
feet  in  diameter. 

Tombs.  —In  and  near  the  city  I  noticed  several  tomhs, 
all  constructed  of  roughly- hewn  slabs.  The  two 
tombs  near  the  chapel  of  Agios  Jani  (Z,  PI.  I.)  still 
contained  some  bones  having  been  recently  broken 
open.  The  tomb  near  north-east  gate  (3,  PI.  L)  had 
also  been  opened  but  a  few  diiys  before  my  visit.  My 
guide  found,  near  it,  a  small  fragment  of  gold  filigree 
ornament  ;  the  rest  had  disappeared. 

Inscription. — Of  statues  or  sculptured  ornaments  I 
could  find  no  trace,  and  I  only  noticed  one  inscription, 
on  a  slab  of  white  stone,  lying  in  front  of  the  chapel 
of  Agios  Jani. 

The  reading  I  give  of  this  inscription  is  from  a  copy 
taken  after  a  careful  re-examination  of  the  stone,  on 


NEIGHBOURHOOD    OP    MI8S0L0N6HI.  547 

comparing  notes  with  Mr.  H.  Bazin,  a  member  of  the 
French  School  of  Athens,  and  a  gentleman  of  conside- 
rable ability,  who  travelled  over  the  whole  of  iEtolia 
in  1860-61,  with  the  view  of  establishing,  as  far  as 
might  be,  the  sites  of  undetermined  cities. 

y* 

KAAAnN  inN  AAM  APXON 
.  >NOZKAAYi\nNtONTON 
•  •  EYEPrETAN 

From  the  appearance  of  the  stone,  I  think  this  is 
the  continuation  of  a  larger  inscription.  On  the  lower 
part  of  the  slab  (a  blank  space  intervening)  are  five 
more  lines  in  a  smaller  character,  but  so  defaced  as  to 
be  quite  illegible. 

Mount  Varasova  f Chalets). 

Crossing  the  Evenus  (modern  Fidharis),  I  explored 
the  west  side  of  Mount  Varasova,  in  the  hope  of  find- 
ing some  ancient  ruins,  promised  by  the  peasants,  at  a 
point  called  "  Castro  tou  Mavromatiou  Scala."  After 
a  toilsome  ascent,  more  than  halfway  up  the  moun- 
tain, we  arrived  at  a  small  medieeval  or  Turkish  for- 
tress, placed  on  a  perpendicular  limestone  cliff,  and 
commanding  a  magnificent  view  of  the  surrounding 
country ;  of  Hellenic  remains  there  were  no  traces, 
though  the  way  had  been  beguiled  by  our  Vlach  guide 
with  stories  of  the  terrible  fights  which,  in  old  times, 
took  place  between  the  inhabitants  of  Kurtaga  and 
the  dwellers  on  the  lofty  rock  we  were  about  to  visit. 

*  Small  Y  very  doabtfnl.  It  would  eeein  that  the  workman  having 
forgotten  the  letter  had  ineerted  it  above. 

*  Mr.  Bazin  reads  MOS  and  luppliee  (Sa)  juk. 


54S 


ON    ANCIENT    HUiNS    IN    THE 


He  was  learned  in  their  mode  of  warfare,  and  enl( 
into  interesting:  details  of  tlie  manner  of  operatioos 
which  the  opposing  parties  carried  out.  His  theories, 
however,  were  not  confirmed  by  our  inspectioa  of  the 
ruins. 

From  the  village  of  Galata  to  the  Crio  Neri  at  tlie 
base  of  Varasova,  where  that  lofty  cllflf  descends  to  the 
sea,  is  about  three  miles  and  a  half.  The  path  skirts 
the  mountain-side,  along  which,  thirty-five  minutes 
from  the  village,  are  lines  of  luw  shallow  caves.  I  no- 
ticed on  the  way  one  or  two  Hellenic  tombs,  similar  lo 
those  found  at  Calydon.  I  w^as  told  that  vases  had 
been  found  in  them  ;  of  course  they  had  been  brokeo 
or  lost.  From  under  the  mountain,  close  to  the  sea, 
at  Crio  Neri,  flows  a  little  brackish  rivulet,  about  two 
fathoms  deep  in  the  centre  ;  from  the  ground  on  either 
side,  well  two  springs  of  fresh  and  very  cold  water. 
Round  the  point  of  the  mountain,  some  mineral  springs 
bubble  up  from  the  beach,  close  to  the  sea.  They  are 
cold  and  salt,  and  are  said  to  conttiin  muriatic  aotl 
sulphuric  kali,  natrium  and  maf^nesia.  There  are  the 
remains  of  walls,  aad  fragments  of  tiles  scattered  about. 
These  appear  to  be  mediaeval  or  inodera.  At  Crio 
Neri"  magazines  were  formed  by  Ibrahim  Pasha,  during 
the  second  siege  of  Missolonghi  in  I  S2ii,  and  stores  for 
the  Turkish  army  were  brought  hither  tionn  Patras. 

May  not  Crio  Neri  be  a  suitable  position  for  the 
port  in  Calydon,  mentioned  by  Pausanlas  in  connection 
with  the  story  of  Coresus,  the  priest  of  Bacchus,  and 
the  cruel  virgin  Callirhoe?  I  should  like  to  fancy  thai 
the  springs  noted  above  are  those  mentioned  in  tie 
story  (Paus.  lib.  vii.  21). 

'  See  Fiiilay'a  llistory  of  Greek,  Revolution,  book  iv.  chap.  2. 


NEIQHOOURHOOD   OP   MIS60L0N0HI.  549 

The  sea  at  this  spot  has  eacroached  on  the  land,  aad 
I  have  been  told  of  the  remains  of  walls,  visible  under 
water,  but,  having  no  boat,  could  not  search  for  them. 

lliough  beyond  the  limits  of  the  plain  of  Missolonghi, 
yet,  as  connected  with  Mount  Varasova,  I  may  here 
notice  some  ruins  visited  by  Mr.  Bazin,  and  situate  in 
a  de61e  on  the  east  side  of  the  mountain,  three- quurters 
of  an  hour  from  the  village  of  Vassiliki.  Mr.  Bazin 
describes  the  town  as  enclosed  on  the  right  and  left  by 
perpendicular  rocks,  and  on  the  north  and  south  by 
curious  walls.  He  considers  these  ruins  to  mark  the 
site  of  Chalcis. 

Western  Division  of  the  Plain  of  Missolonghi. 

I  have  but  few  notes  to  give  of  this  portion  of  the 
plain.  In  a  vineyard,  about  three-quarters  of  a  mile 
north-west  of  the  town,  I  saw  an  Hellenic  tomb,  in 
which  two  or  three  small  vases  had  been  found. 

The  ruins  at  Gyfto  Castro  (?  Old  Pleuron,  accord- 
ing to  Colonel  Leake)  and  of  New  Pleuron,  on  a  higher 
spur  of  Zygos,  I  have  already  described  in  a  former 
letter.  I  believe,  however,  that  a  further  survey  of  the 
interesting  ruins  of  New  Pleuron  might  be  rewarded 
with  fresh  discoveries.  In  the  marsh,  in  the  plain 
beneath  these  ruins,  are  said  to  be  the  remains  ol 
walls,  resembling  quays,  and  iron  rings,  as  if  belonging 
to  a  port,  according  to  my  informant,  but  1  was  not 
able  to  verify  the  fact. 

About  the  centre  of  Kaki  Scaia,  a  rugged  path  which 
crosses  the  mountain-spur  at  the  head  of  the  marsh,  are 
the  ruins  of  a  small  Hellenic  tower  composed  of  large 
squared  blocks,  an  outwork,  probably,  of  New  Pleuron. 


550  RUINS    AT   HISSOLONGHI. 

A  little  further  on,  at  a  spot  called  "Treia  Ekklesias," 
are  some  Hellenic  remains,  seen  by  Mr.  Bazin,  but 
which  had  escaped  my  notice.  In  this  part  of  the 
plain,  and  along  the  west  banks  of  the  Lake  of  Aito- 
lico  are  scattered  remains  of  houses,  extending  over 
some  distance,  probably  Byzantine  or  mediaeval. 

About  four  miles  and  a  half  north-west  of  Aitolico, 
on  a  lower  conical  hill,  called  Episcopi,  which  rises  from 
the  plain  not  far  from  the  Achelous,  is  a  ruined  By- 
zantine churcli,  built  entirely  of  bricks.  The  church 
is  sixty  feet  in  length  and  thirty-three  feet  in  breadth, 
including  two  long  aisles  on  either  side,  which  are 
entered  by  separate  doors,  but  connected  by  openings 
in  the  interior  with  the  body  of  the  church.  Some 
squared  blocks,  apparently  ancient,  are  scattered  on 
the  hill-top  outside  the  church. 

I  have  added  to  these  notes  a  few  sketches  of  Galy- 
don  (1,  2,  3)  and  an  outline  tracings  from  the  French 
map  of  Greece,  of  the  plain  of  Missolonghi.  The  coast- 
line has  altered  greatly  since  ancient  times  ;  the  three 
lakes  spoken  of  by  Strabo  now  form  one  long  lagoon, 
extending  from  Cape  Skrophes  to  the  plain  of  the 
Evenus,  a  distance  of  about  nineteen  miles.  The  Lake 
of  Calydon,  famous  for  its  fish,  may  have  been  at  the 
east  extremity  of  the  lagoon,  and  extended  ncHrer  to 
the  river  than  it  now  does.  Patras  is  still  supplied 
with  fish  from  this  coast. '^ 

Believe  rae,  yours  very  truly, 

D.  E.  COLNAGHI. 

'  Whenever  I  have  mentioned  Colonel  Leake's  Researches,  Ih*" 

taken  my  notice  of  them  from  different  articles  in  Dr.  Smith's  'Ke-  I 

tionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Geography,*  as  I  have  no  copy  bfflwc^  i 

Colonel  Leake's  '  Travels  in  Northern  Greece.'  ' 


^^^^ 


TH  QP£NINC.{SPLA) 


551 


XX.— THE  ANNALS  OF  ESARHADDON,  TRANSLATED 
PROM  THE  ASSYRUN. 

BT    H.    F.    TALBOT,   T.P.B.8.L. 

(Read  March  11th,  1863.) 

This  iDteresting  inscription  is  found  on  a  cylinder  in 
the  British  Museum.  Another  copy  likewise  exists 
in  that  collection,  but  it  is  much  broken.  Tfae  origi- 
nal text  is  lithographed  in  pi.  45  of  the  recently  pub- 
lished volume  of  inscriptions. 

THE  ANNALS  OF  ESARHADDON. 
Column  I. 

Esarhaddon,  king  of  Assyria,  lord  of  Sumiri  and 
Akkadi ;  son  of  Sennacherib,  king  of  Assyria  ;  son  of 
Sargon,  king  of  Assyria.  The  king  who,  in  the  name 
of  Ashur,  the  moon,  the  sun,  Nebo,  Marduk,  Ishtar 
of  Nineveh,  and  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  the  great  gods  his 
lords,  from  the  rising  sun  unto  the  setting  sun,  made 
conquests  beyond  number. 

THE  CONQUEST  OF  SIDON. 

Conqueror  of  the  city  of  Sidon,  which  is  in  the  sea; 
sweeper  away  of  all  its  villages ;  its  citadel  and  its 
palace  i  destroyed,  and  1  flung  them  into  the  sea.  And 


552  TVS    ANNALS    OF    BSAKUADDON. 

the  place  where  the  ruins  had  heen,  I  made  smooth 
and  level. 

Abd-ishkutti,  its  king,  who  away  from  my  arms  into 
the  midst  of  the  sea  had  6ed :  like  a  fish  from  the 
midst  of  the  sea  I  caught  him  up,  and  I  bound  his 
hands  with  fetters.    His  hoarded  wealth  of  gold,  silver, 

precious  stones,  ( )  of  elephants,  teeth  of  elephants, 

dan  wood,  ku  wood  ;  dyed  wool,  red  and  yellow,  very 
precious ;  and  all  the  chief  treasures  of  his  palace, 
abundantly  I  carried  off.  His  men  and  women  be- 
yond number,  with  his  oxen,  sheep,  and  mules,  I  bore 
away  to  Assyria. 

I  passed  in  review  the  kings  of  Syria,  and  those  of 
the  seacoast,  all  of  them. 

I  built  the  city  again,  and  named  it  the  city  of 
Esarh  addon. 

Men  skilled  in  archery,  belonging  to  me,  natives  (rf 
the  land  and  sea  of  the  rising  sun,  therein  I  placed 
to  dwell.  My  officers,  men  of  distinction,  I  placed  ia 
authority  over  them. 

Moreover,  Sanduarri,  king  of  the  city  Askundir-sitzu, 
an  enemy  and  heretic  who  paid  no  reverence  to  my 
majesty,  and  whom  the  gods  had  abandoned;  he  trusted 
to  his  fortified  stronghold,  and  Abd-ishkutti,  king  of 
Sidon,  he  took  for  his  ally. 

The  names  of  the  great  gods  he  carved  upon  his 
idols,  and  to  their  oracles  he  trusted.  But  I  trusted 
unto  Ashur,  ray  lord.  Like  an  antelope  from  the 
midst  of  the  mountains  I  caught  him  up,  and  1  bound 
his  hands  with  fetters.  Then  I  marked  upon  him  the 
emblem  of  Ashur,  my  lord.  And  soon  after,  the 
heads  of  Sanduarri  and  Abdimilkutti,  with  the  heads 
of  their  principal  chiefs,  I  struck  off;  and  along  with 


TBE    ANNALB   OF    ESABUADDON.  553 

the  slaves,  old  men,  children,  and  women,   to  the 
palace  of  Nineveh  I  sent  them. 

Column  II. 

[The  commencement  is  broken.  In  the  part  which 
is  lost,  the  king  seems  to  have  said  that  he  cut  off  the 
heads  of  some  rebels.     He  continues  thus  : — ] 

I  collected  them  [viz.  the  heads] ,  and  unto  Assyria 
I  sent  them  off.  And  opposite  the  great  eastern  gate 
of  the  city  of  Nineveh,  along  with  the  heap  of  corpses 
there  already,  I  left  them  to  remain  for  ever. 

Then  Teispes,  king  of  the  Sacse,  a  rebellious .  war- 
rior, whose  land  was  far  distant,  la  the  province  of 
Khubsan,  with  all  his  army  I  destroyed  with  my  wea- 
pons. 

Trampler  upon  the  infamous  tribes  of  the  robber 
country,  a  race  of  outlaws  inhabiting  the  forests  which 
are  in  front  of  the  fertile  (or  civilized)  country  :  who 
trusted  to  their  mountains,  and  from  ancient  times 
had  never  bowed  down  to  the  yoke.  Twenty-one  of 
their  strong  cities,  with  the  smaller  towns  adjoining  to 
them,  I  attacked  and  took  them,  and  carried  off  their 
spoils.  Then  I  ruined  and  destroyed  them,  and  burnt 
them  with  fire.  The  best  of  those  people,  who  crimes 
and  murders  had  not  committed,  I  only  compelled  to 
receive  my  yoke. 

Conqueror  of  the  land  of  Bamaki,  who  are  enemies 
and  heretics,  dwelling  in  Til-Ashur,  which  in  their 
own  tongue  they  call  the  cities  Mikran  and  Pitan. 

Disperser  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  of  Manna, 
who  did  not  keep  their  treaty ;  and  the  king  (am  /] 
who  destroyed  with  his  weapons  the  army  of  Ispakiah, 


554  THB    ANNALS   OF    ESAKHADDON. 

king  of  Ashguza,  a  crowd  of  soldiers  who  failed  to  save 
themselves. 

Conqueror  of  Nabo-zir-gisidi,  son  of  Marduk-Bala- 
dan,  who  trusted  to  the  king  of  Susiana,  but  did  not 
thereby  save  his  life. 

Then  Nahit-Marduk,  his  brother,  made  haste  to  do 
homage  to  me.  From  the  land  of  the  Sosians  he 
made  his  escape.  Unto  Nineveh  the  city  of  my  royalty 
he  came,  and  kissed  my  yoke.  The  entire  district  oq 
the  seacoast,  which  was  the  inheritance  of  his  brother, 
I  gave  to  him. 

Destroyer  of  the  city  of  Beth-Dakkurri,  which  is  in 
ChaldEea,  and  is  the  enemy  of  Babylon.  Conqueror 
of  Shems-ebnt,  its  king,  an  old  man,  vile  and  hatefiil, 
who  would  not  worship  the  lord  of  lords  [viz.  Mar- 
dvk\i  and  who  had  seduced  into  heresy  many  of  the 
common  people,  subjects  of  the  princes  of  Babylon 
and  Borsippa.  The  true  worship  of  Bel  and  Nebo 
among  those  people  I  re-established,  and  I  gave  them 
back  to  the  princes  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa.  Nebo- 
shallim,  son  of  Balatzu,  I  placed  upon  the  throne,  and 
he  did  homage  to  me. 

The  city  of  Edom,  the  strongest  city  of  the  land  of 
the  Arabians,  which  Sennacherib,  king  of  Assyria,  my 
father,  had  conquered  ....  [The  rest  of  this  para- 
graph is  broken  off.] 

Column  III. 

[The  first  three  lines  of  the  column  are  destroyed.] 

THE  SUPPLIANT  KING. 

with  his  abundant  presents,  unto  Nineveh 

my  royal  city  he  came,  and  kissed  my  yoke.     Then 


THE    ANNALS    OP    ESARHADDON.  555 

holding  forth  to  me  his  gods,  he  made  supplications 
to  me.  I  took  pity  on  him.  I  repaired  the  injuries 
on  those  images  of  his  gods.  The  emblem  of  Ashur, 
my  lord,  and  the  writing  of  my  own  name,  I  caused 
to  be  written  on  them,  and  I  gave  them  back  to  him 
again. 

A  young  woman,  brought  up  in  my  palace,  I  ap- 
pointed to  be  queen  over  them.  With  her  gods,  unto 
her- country  I  restored  her. 

A  tribute  of  65  camels,  beyond  what  he  paid  to  my 
late  father,  I  imposed  upon  him. 

After  Hazael  had  resigned  his  crown,  I  placed  upon 
the  throne  Yahilu  his  son. 

Ten  mina  of  gold,  1000  precious  stones,  50  camels, 

and  1000  ( ),  increased  beyond  the  tribute  which 

his  father  paid,  I  imposed  upon  him. 

THE  CONQUEST   OF   THE  MARSH   COUNTRY   OF 
LOWER   CHALDjEA. 

The  marsh  country,  whose  situation  is  remote,  a 
great  district  of  overflowed  land,  cursed  with  famine  : 
at  first  140  leagues  of  marsh  land,  uninhabited,  and 
utterly  worthless ;  then  twenty  leagues  of  a  high  and 
well-watered  country;  then  again  twenty  leagues  of 
broken  country, — a  region  of  rocks, — barren  in  the  ex- 
treme, behind  me  I  left ;  and  I  then  marched  into  a 
region  which  in  former  times  no  king,  of  all  my  an- 
cestors, had  ever  penetrated.  By  the  command  of 
Ashur,  my  lord,  into  the  midst  of  it  proudly  I  ad- 
vanced. Eight  kings  of  the  interior  of  that  country 
I  slew.  Their  gods,  their  treasures,  and  their  people, 
I  carried  away  captive  into  Assyria. 


556  THB    ANNALS    OF    E8ABHADD0N. 

Layali,  king  of  the  city  Yadihu,  who  had  fled  from 
before  my  arms,  hearing  of  the  capture  of  his  gods, 
unto  Nineveh,  my  royal  city,  unto  my  majesty  he  came, 
and  kissed  my  yoke.  I  took  pity  on  him.  I  com- 
manded that  he  should  be  honoured.  As  for  his  gods 
which  I  had  captured,  I  inscribed  on  them  the  emblem 
of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  1  gave  them  to  him  once  more. 
Those  provinces  of  the  marsh  country  I  entrusted  to 
his  jurisdiction.  A  settled  tribute  to  my  majesty  I 
imposed  upon  him. 

Belbasha,  son  of  Bunani,  king  of  the  Gamboli  tribe, 
(who  in  an  island  twelve  leagues  from  the  land,  amidst 
the  waters  and  the  waves,  like  fishes  have  placed  their 
humid  dwellings,)  was  struck  with  terror  on  hearing 
the  commands  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  brought  tribute 
and  offerings  to  my  majesty. 

Column  /K. 

[The  commencement  is  broken  off.  It  seems  to 
have  mentioned  a  war  against  some  chief  on  the  bor- 
ders of  Elamti  or  Susiana ;  a  neighbour  therefore  of 
the  Gambuli  tribe  last  mentioned.] 

and  he  kissed  my  yoke.    I  took  pity  on  him. 

I  gave  him  a  golden  necklace.  I  strengthened  the 
fortifications  of  Shapi-Bel,  his  strong  city. 

Himself  and  his  archers  I  left  within  the  city,  and 
like  a  palm-tree  of  the  land  of  Elamti  I  caused  him 
to  flourish. 

In  the  district  of  Patusarra  which   borders  upon 

( ),  which  is  in  the  further  part  of  Media,  in  the 

province  of  Bikni,  the  country  of  the  precious  zamat 
stone  ;  (which  among  the  kings  my  fathers,  none  ever 


THE    ANNALS    OF    BSARHADDON,  557 

trod  the  soil  of  that  country,)  Sireparna  and  Eparna, 
chiefs  of  fortified  cities  who  had  not  bowed  down  to 
my  yoke,  themselves  and  their  people,  and  their  horses 
trained  to  draw  chariots,  their  oxen,  sheep,  mules,  and 
dromedaries,  with  much  spoil,  I  carried  off  to  Assyria. 
Uppits,  chief  of  the  city  Fartakka : 
Zanasan,  chief  of  the  city  Parratka : 
Ramatiya,  chief  o(  the  city  Uraka-zabama  : 
Median  cities,  whose  situation  is  remote,  who  in  the 
times  of  the  kings  my  fathers  never  traversed  the 
land  of  Assyria,  nor  ever  trod  upon  its  soil :  (for  now 
the  dreadful  terror  of  Ashur  my  lord  had  struck  them,) 
brought  noble  stallions,  and  precious  zamat  stones,  the 
pride  of  their  country,  unto  Nineveh  my  royal  city, 
and  kissed  my  yoke. 

Then  the  chiefs  of  certain  revolted  cities  assembled 
themselves  together,  and  supplicated  my  majesty,  and 
cried  to  me  most  earnestly.  My  officers,  men  of  dis- 
tinction belonging  to  those  cities,  I  commissioned  to 
go  along  with  them.  They  thoroughly  subdued  the 
inhabitants  of  those  cities,  and  compelled  them  to  bow 
down  to  their  yoke. 

A  fixed  tribute  to  my  majesty,  measured  equally,  I 
imposed  upon  them. 

THE  CIVIL  ADMINISTRATION  OF  ESARHADDON  AFTER 
HIS  WARS  WERE  FINISHED. 

After  that  Ashur,  the  sun,  Bel,  and  Nebo,  Ishtar  of 
Nineveh,  and  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  over  my  enemies  by 
victories  bad  established  firmly  my  power,  I  fulfilled 
my  heart's  desire. 

Out  of  the  spoils  of  foreign  kingdoms,  which  by  the 
help  of  the  great  gods  my  lords  my  hands  had  seized, 


558 


THE    ANNALS    OF    PSAHHADDOM. 


ten  large  temples  in  Assyria,  and  in  Mesopotamia  I 
erected;  with  silver  and  gold  I  adorned  them,  and  1 
made  them  as  brilliant  as  the  $iiq. 

In  those  days,  the  royal  palace  in  the  middle  of  Ni- 
neveh, which  the  kings  my  fathers  who  went  before 
me  erected  for  the  accommodatiou  of  troops^  and  for 
the  care  (or  safe  keeping)  of  stallions  and  mares,  and 
cars  (or  waggons),  able  to  carry  implements  of  war; 
and  for  the  safe  cus^tody  of  foreign  spoils,  and  all 
manner  of  precious  objects,  which  Ashur,  king  of  the 
gods,  had  given  abundantly  to  my  royal  arms 

[Here  part  of  the  cyhnder  is  broken  off,  which  pro- 
bably mentioned  that  this  palace  was  gone  to  decay, 
'and  that  the  king  had  resolved  to  rebuild  it.] 


Column  V. 


A  multitude  of  captives  I  compelled  to  make  bricks. 
That  old  palace,  I  pulled  down  the  whole  of  it.  A 
vast  quantity  of  earth  in  baskets  I  removed  from  its 
former  place,  and  heaped  it  up  [i.e.  upon  the  site  of 
the  old  palace].  And  then  with  atones  of  aniptesize 
I  finished  the  work  of  its  mound. 

I  assembled  twenty-two  kings  of  the  Syrian  nations: 
those  of  the  seacoast,  and  those  of  the  islands,  all  of 
them ;  and  I  passed  them  in  review. 

Precious  woods  in  large  beams :  fine-grown  timi 
trees,  ebony-wood,  cedar-wood,  and  shuniish  wood, 
from  Sirar  and  Lebanon : 

Also  pictures  of  the  great  gods,  and  sculptures  to 
be  fixed  up  against  walls  :  statues  of  the  gods  carved 
in  stone;  slabs  of  granite  and  alabaster;  two  kinds  of 
kumina  stonej  belglshak  stone ;  a/iskda  stone  ;  and  va- 


TBE    A.NNALS    OP    RSARHADDON. 


550*- 


I 


I 


nous  other  kinds  of  stone  from  the  forests  {or  deserts) 
of  the  lands  of  their  birlh,  for  the  adornment  of  my 
palace,  with  danger  and  difficulty,  unto  Nineveh  they. 
brought  along  with  thetu. 

In  the  month  Shaga,  on  the  day  named  belgari, 
upon  that  mound  I  began  to  build  n  magnificent  pa-"- 
lace  for  the  residence  of  my  majesty. 

A  great  building  of  95  measures  in  length,  and  31 
measures  in  breadth,  such  as  araona;  the  kings  my  fa- 
thers who  went  before  me  none  had  ever  made,  I  con- 
structed. 

With  beams  of  lofty  cedar-trees  I  constructed  its 
roof;  and  to  planks  made  of  shurnish  wood,  a  tree 
whose  wood  is  excellent,  1  fastened  ornaments  of  silver- 
and  bronze,  and  I  affixed  them  to  the  gates. 

Divine  bulls  carved  in  stone,  whose  fronts  alone- 
were  visible,  I  placed  close  beside  the  gates. 

Guardians  of  the  treasure,  preservers  of  the  revenue,- 
of  the  king  who  constructed  them,  every  one  of  them 
I  located  in  their  place. 

This  palace  of  stone  and  cedar-wood  of  immense* 
size,  for  the  residence  of  my  majesty  splendidly  L 
finished.  : 

Sculptures  of  the  great  gods  made  of  bronze  painted 
[or  varnisheff]  on  both  sides,  and  before  and  behind, 
in  the  closed  apartments  of  its  interior,  1  constructed. 


Column  VI. 


Cornices  (?)  of  6ne  cedar-wood  and  ebony-wood,  on 
the  top  of  the  gates  I  made. 

The  whole  of  that  palace  with  lofty  nihikh  of  ka 
Etone  and  zamat  stone  I  finished,  and  I  completed  its 

VOL.   VII.  2    P 


I 


5Q0  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

kiti  [inner  rtpartments  ?].   With  6at  roofs  like  ( ) 

1  covered  all  the  apartments,  and  with  ornaments  of 
pure  silver  and  shining  copper  I  adorned  its  interior. 

The  glory  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  which  he  had  displayed 
among  the  foreign  nations,  I  entrusted  to  the  care  of 
skilful  carvers  within  it.'  With  noble  shar  trees,  the 
growth  of  the  land  of  Khaniana  [Mount  Hcrmoti]  which 
all  carpenters  and  joiners  prefer  to  enaploy,  1  built  its 
iia  [inner  walls?].  I  improved  its  kishalla.  I  greatly 
augmented  its  resources,  for  the  stahling  of  horses 
within  it.  And  I  dug  wells  and  filled  them  abundantly 
with  water. 

This  palace  from  its  foundation  to  its  summit  I  built 
and  I  completed. 

I  made  a  hall  of  assembly  io  it  for  the  great  meet- 
ing of  my  council.  And  the  name  which  I  gave  to  it 
was  Haikal  pakidat  kola  mu,  "  the  palace  of  protection 
of  every  useful  work.*'^ 

Ashur  and  the  goddess  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  and  the 
gods  of  Assyria,  all  of  them,  in  its  chapels  1  wor- 
shipped. Victims  of  most  perfect  beauty  I  sacri6ceil 
to  their  divinities.  I  collected  together  much  we^th, 
and  I  did  for  those  gods  whatever  they  desired- 

THE  ASSYRIAN  PARLIAMENT.  ^| 

I  assembled  together  the  first  men  of  the  kingdom, 

'  These  sculptures  of  course  represented  tbe  king's  own  actroDS 
and  victoricB,  but  they  were  cotiventicually  attributed  to  Asliur,  by 
"  tbe  terror  of  whose  name  "  the  foreign  euemies  are  &iwaya  siid  to 
be  "  conrounded  "  or  "  wverwhelmed." 

'  Or,  "ttie  pulage  of  every  kind  of  fostering  care."  Other  io- 
scriptionB  also  insist  particularly  on  this  point,  viz,  the  great  uumber 
of  useful  purposes  for  which  this  pakce  wag  empioyed.  It  wa*< 
kind  of  great  central  government  establisbnieut. 


T-HB    ANNALS    OF    ESARBADDON.  561 

the  chiefs  and  the  people  of  my  land,  all  of  them. 
And  I  caused  them  to  be  seated  within  the  palace,  to 
aid  me  with  their  help,  and  their  foresight,  and  their 
well-weighed  counsels. 

By  the  will  of  Ashur,  king  of  the  gods,  and  the  gods 
of  Assyria,  all  of  them,  may  they  always  in  future  as- 
semble there,  with  good  intentions,  intelligent  minds, 
much  honour,  and  abundant  profit !  And  so  may  the 
glory  of  this  palace  be  full  I 

Suited  for  every  kind  of  useful  work,  may  a  noble 
race  of  horses,  mares,  beasts  of  labour  {mules?),  and 
camels,  capable  of  carrying  at  once  the  warlike  stores 
of  a  whole  army,  and  likewise  may  the  precious  spoils 
taken  from  the  enemy, — may  these  in  an  equal  de- 
gree, and  that  by  no  means  a  small  one,  be  carefully 
tended  and  guarded  within  it ! 

Within  this  palace  may  the  sacred  buU,^  the  guardian 
of  my  royal  wealth,  and  the  great  giver  to  me  of  hap- 
piness, for  ever  continue  to  shine  1 

In  future  days,  under  the  kings  my  sons,  whom 
Ashur  and  isbtar  shall  call  to  rule  over  this  land  and 
people,  when  this  palace  shall  grow  old  and  decay, 
may  some  one  repair  its  injuries  I  And  as  I  have 
placed  the  tablets  written  with  the  name  of  the  king 
ray  father  along  with  the  tablets  written  with  my  own 
name,  so  do  thou^  also  (as  I  have  done)  read  aloud 
the  tablets  written  with  my  name ;  then  build  an  altar, 
sacrifice  a  victim,  and  fix  them  up  along  with  the 
tablets  written  with  thine  own  name.  So  shall  Ashur 
and  Ishtar  hear  thy  prayers ! 


*  Viz.  carved  in  atone. 

*  The  king  here  addreases  his  encceseor. 

2p2 


562.  THB    ANNALS  OF   ESABHAOOON^ 

Haviug  given  this  translation  of  the  whole  ioscrip- 
tion,  I  now  proceed  to  analyse  the  text,  placing  the 
Assyrian  and  EngUsh  in  opposite  columns,  and  adding 
the  necessary  annotations. 

Column  J. 

1 n  Akkadim,        [Esarbaddon,  king  of  Absttu, 

lord  of  Sumiri]  and  Akkadi, 

2 Bar  Asbur,  [sod  of  Senoacheiib]  king  of 

Assyria, 

3 sar  Ashur,  [son  of  Sargon]  king  of  Anu- 

ria. 

4 Sin,  Sbemesh,  [tbe  king  who  in  the  name  of 

Ashur]  the  moon,  the  aun, 

5.  Nabiu,  Marduk,  labtar  aha  Nebo,  Mardakj  Ishtar  at  Si- 
Ninua,  oeveb, 

6.  Ishtar  sha  Arbil,  ili  rabi  bie-  and  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  the  great 
li-sn,  gods  his  lords, 

7.  valtu  tsit  ihemeah  adi  ereb  from  the  rising  son  onto  the 
ahemesfa,  eettiog  sun, 

8.  ittallaku  makhira  la  yesbu.  made  conquests  beyond  nam- 

ber. 

Observations, 

Of  the  first  four  lines,  the  greater  portion  has  been 
destroyed. 

Ittallaku  is  the  t  conjugation  of  allak,  to  attack. 
Heb.  -jVn. 

Makhira  la  yesku  is  a  very  common  phrase,  but  not 
yet  satisfactorily  explained.  Makhira  may  mean  a  re- 
gister, record,  or  history;  Heb.  MlpO,  liber,  lectio; 
or  it  may  mean  "victories;"  Heb.  rrOD,  gladius, 
arma. 

La  yesku  may  be  "  that  which  cannot  be  counted," 
from  M^3,  nasha,  summam  numeravit ;  or,  "  that 
which  is  not  preserved  in  memory,"  from  yttr*,  servavit. 


THE    ANNALS    OF' KSAttHADDON. 


563 


d.  Kaehid  ir  Tsidubtii  sh&  aft 
kabal  parti ; 

10.  sajiin  gimir  daniini-su  ; 

IL.  til-EU  u  9ubat-zu  tLsehursu, 

12.  kireb  parti  acldiu; 

13.  a&har  m&sdKki-au  wekho]- 

prik. 


Conqueror  of  the  city  of  Sidon, 
which  is  in  the  b^h  ; 

sweeper  airay  of  all  its  Til- 
lages 1 

its  citadel  and  ita  palace  I  de- 
stroy ed, 

and  1  flung  them  into  thti  eea  : 

and  the  place  where  their  ruiqs 
had  beeo,  I  made  smooth  imd 
level. 


I 


I  have  written  kashid,  on  account  of  the  probable 
etymological  conneclton  with  kashat,  victory  ;  kishitti, 
spoils  of  battle;  ekshut,  I  conquered,  etc.  Otherwise 
the  word  might  as  well  be  read  kamish, 

Sidon  is  loosely  said  to  be  "  iu  the  sea,"  instead  oi 
•*  on  the  seacoast." 

The  word  meaning  "  the  sea"  may  have  been  pro- 
nounced pariU  because  the  Arabic  has  bahry  the  sea, 
froru  which  parti  is  not  very  distant.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  may  have  been  pronounced  yobba,  as  it  is  very 
often  written. 

Asskurshu  denotes  the  most  complete  deetrnction  of 
a  building;  from  \inty,  sheresh  or  shershf  eradicavit, 
extirpavit  (Schindler,  1951  ;  Gesenius,  1040). 

Addiu.  The  final  u  is  a  sign  of  the  first  person,  but 
when  a  short  vowel  precedes^  as  here,  the  last  letter 
bad  probably  somewhat  the  sound  of  m, 

Addi,  I  threw,  jcci;  from  Heb.  TTT,  jecit.  The 
third  plural,  iddu,  jecerunt,  frequently  occurs;  ex.  gr. 
iddu-su,  they  cast  upon  him  [viz.  heavy  chains  of 
iron]. 

Masdak  is  similarly  used  for  "the  ruins  of  a  palace" 
in  the  Cuustaiitiuople  inscription,  I.  61.  It  is  from 
pTD,  sadak,  Chald.  and  Syr.,  to  break  in  pieces. 


564  THB   ANNALS   OP    BSARHADDON. 

Wekhallik,  I  made  smooth ;  from  Heb.  pTTl,  khalak, 
Isevis,  glaber ;  and  as  a  verb,  spoliavit,  denudavit. 

14.  Abd-iehkutti  sar-Ba.  Abdishkutti,  its  king, 

15.  aha  lapaa  eshkati-ya  who  away  from  my  arms 

16.  as  kabal  parti  mnabtu,  into  the  midst  of  the  sea  had 

fled. 

17.  kimannniTaltu  kireb  parti        like  a  fish  from  the  midst  of 

the  sea 

18.  amassu,  akkireb  kat-zu.  I  caught  him  ap,  and  I  bound 

his  hands  with  fettere. 

Abd-ishkutti  probably  means  '*  servant  of  the  laws," 
or  "servant  of  religion."  He  is  indifferently  called 
by  this  name  and  by  that  of  Abdi-milkutti,  "  servant 
of  the  kingdom."  There  is,  however,  some  doubt  of 
authenticity  of  these  names.  The  same  cuneiform 
sign  represents  kut  and  tar.  It  is  possible  that  the 
Assyrian  scribe  may  not  have  possessed  much  know- 
ledge of  PhcEnician  affairs,  and  may  have  selected 
wrongly  hit  instead  of  tar.  Then  by  writing  ku  ut 
for  htt,  he  put  it  out  of  the  power  of  his  reader  to 
correct  him.  If  the  sign  were  really  tar,  the  name 
would  be  Abd-istarti,  or  "servant  of  Astarte."  We 
know  from  the  testimony  of  Menander  that  there  was 
an  ancient  king  of  Tyre,  called  Abdistarte.  Similarly, 
I  think  that  Abdi-milkutti  may  be  a  corruption  of  "ser- 
vant of  Melkart,"  or  Melicerta.  He  was  the  Tyrian 
Hercules. 

AmassUf  from  Chald.  DCn,  hamas,  rapuit,  abripuit, 
abstulit,  transtulit  {Schindler,  600). 

AkJdreh  is  probably  the  Arabic  verb  313,  carah,  com- 
pressit,  anxit  (Schindl.  894),  implying  that  the  hands 
were  squeezed  together  painfully. 


THB    ANNALS   OT    S9ARHADD0N.  565 

19.  Nalcmu  ehaga-su,  khorassi.  His  hoarded  wealth  of  gold, 
kaspa,  abnam  agarat,  ulver,  precious  Btones, 

20.  tzu  amsi,  ka  amsi,  its  dan of  elephants,  teeth 

its  ka,  of  elephantB,  dan  wood^  ku  wood, 

21.  ku  thibbulti  it  a  karkam  dyed  wool,  (red?)  and  yellow, 
BQtaksD,  very  precious, 

22.  nitairti  haikal-su  all   the  chief  treasures  of  his 

palace 

23.  ana  mahadi  ashlula.  abundantly  I  plundered. 

24.  Nisi-sn,  nishati,  sha  niba         His  men  and  women,  beyond 
la  isba,  number, 

25.  ga  a  tsieai with  his  oxen,  sheep,  and  mules, 

26.  abuka  ana  kireb  Aahur.  I  carried  off  to  Aasyria. 

Nalmu,  a  board ;  from  nakim,  to  keep  safe,  pre- 
serve, or  hoard,  which  again  is  froi;n  the  Chald.  Op, 
kim,  manens,  durans.  Hence  beth-nakammati,  a  house 
of  hoarded  wealth,  i.  e.  a  treasury. 

Agarut,  precious  stones,  is  perhaps  a  particular 
form  of  the  Arabic  nan,  hagar,  lapis  ;  plur.  higara. 

Tzu  is  of  uncertain  meaning.  **  Skins  "  would  be 
hardly  of  sufficient  value  to  be  mentioned.  Perhaps 
it  means  "bone,"  and  is  a  shortened  form  of  atzu,  Heb. 
DSy,  a  bone. 

Amsi,  elephants,  I  would  derive  from  Heb.  ametz, 
SQt4,  robustus,  fortis. 

l^ibbulti,  dyed ;  from  7113,  thibul,  tinxit,  immersit, 
as  first  explained,  I  believe,  by  Dr.  Hincks. 

Ku,  fleece  or  wool,  may  be  compared  with  the 
Greek  «<»,  root  of  /cSias,  lews,  a  fleece. 

NUsirti,  the  regalia  or  chief  treasury  of  the  king's 
palace ;  from  Heb.  IW,  nezer  or  nciscr,  diadema  regis, 

Niba,  number.  The  phrases,  sha  niba  la  iska,  and 
la  nibij  or  la  niba  kabitti,  have  much  the  same  mean- 
ing. 

Abuka^  ^K>liavi.     The  verb  meant  properly  evaaia- 


'56.6  THE    ANNALS  OF   ESAaHADDON. 

,  vit,  from  pTQ.    Thence,  in  Is.  xxiv.  I ,  '  incoHs  nudavit 
terram,  spoliavit,  exinanivtt  incolas  '  (Geeen.  169). 

27.  Wepakhani  sarin  Khatti,  I  passed  in  review  the  kings  of 

Syria, 
28!  u  akhi  parti  kali-sun.  and  those  of  the  seacoast,  al 

of  them. 

29.  [ir]  shanut-si  weshapisho  I  hoilt  the  city  again, 

30.  [ir  Ashurj-akhi-adannaat-         and  named  it  the  city  of  E^- 
.' tahi  nibit-zu.  haddon. 

Wepakharu  may  be  from  Heb.  im,  bakhar,  proba- 
vit,  examinavit.     Sometimes,  as  in  pi.  48, 1.  16,  wejna- 
Air,  I  reviewed,  is  used  in  the  same  sense  of  the  mon- 
arch receiving  his  vassal  chieftains. 
.     The  beginning  of  lines  29  and  30  is  broken  off. 

Shanut-si,  "  for  the  second  time."    In  other  inscrip- 
.  tioDS  this  is  written  shanuti-su.     From  shanaht  iiyof, 
iteravit,  secundum  fecit,    "'i^,  duo :  also,  *  alter,  secun- 
dus'  (Ges.  1025). 

Attabi.  T  conjugation  of  abbi,  I  gave.  Attabi  ni- 
bit-zu or  sum-su  abbi.     Both  phrases  are  frequent. 

31.  Nisi  khubut  kim-ya,  sba         Men  skilled  in  archery  belong- 
.  mati  in^  to  me,  natives  of  the  land 

32.  u  yobba  tgit  shemsi,  and  eea  of  the  rising  sun, 

33.  as  libbi  wesbasib.  therein  I  placed  to  dwell. 

'      34.  Sutrish-ya,  niai  nam,  eli-         My  secretaries — men  of  dis- 
sun  ashkun.  tinction  —  I  placed  in  authority 

over  them. 

Khubut,  loving,  i.  e.  skilled  in  (archery).  From  Heb. 
khub,  ^S^,  to  love  (Schaaf,  155,  etc.). 

Kim  is  either  a  bow  or  an  arrow ;  but  not  quite  cer- 
tain which.     Persian,  kaman,  a  bow. 

Yobba  or  parti,  the  sea. 

Lib,  the  middle  of  anything,  or  its  interior. 


THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 


567 


Navi :  more  usually  we  find  nisi*  bel  nain,  men  pas- 
sensing  distinction.     1  think  it  may  be  related  to  Per- 
['  sian  nam^  a  name  ;  thence  "  renown."     For  tlie  Assy- 
■rian  has  a  verb  nnmia,  to  call  a  person  by  his  name: 
*'  vocare  sen  nominare  aliquem," 


35.  U  Sanduarri, 

36.  Bar  ir  Asltuiidir-sitzu, 

37.  nakru  akissa,  la  palikh  hel- 
-iuti-y», 

38.  iha  Ilitu  wemassharai 

^9.  ana  mali  tnikrEUli  iltakil, 

40,  w  Aludisbkutti  aar  Tsiduai, 

41.  ana  ri&auu-su  i^hkunu. 


Moreover  Sanduarri, 

king  of  the  city  Askundtr-ait- 

Zll, 

an  enemy  and  heretic,  Avho  paid 
no  reverence  tp  my  n^ajesty^ 

and  TrhoiD  the  g'oda  had  aban- 
doned - 

hutrusted  tohia  fortified  etroug- 
hDtd, 

and  Abdisbkwlti,  king  of  Si- 
doti, 

be  took  for  his  ally. 


Sanduarri  or  Sandjrri  may  be  the  Greek  name 
Alexander  ;  for  there  were  many  Greek  settlers  in 
Phcenicia  in  those  days.  Askundir-sitzu  may  mean 
"  the  city  of  Alexander."  Iskunder  is  the  usual  Ori- 
ental corruption  of  Alexander.  Sitzv.  may  be  the 
Teutonic  ^'(2  or  wohn-sitz,  a  dwelling-place.  If  it  be 
objected  that  Alexander  was  a  Greek  name,  it  must  be 
remembered  it  was  Macedonian,  and  that  the  Macedo- 
nian dialect  contained  much  that  was  Gothic,  and 
alien  from  Greeks  so  that  the  addition  of  sitz  (Latin 
■  sessio,  sessit^  etc.}  was  not  impossible. 

Nakra  is  a  frequent  word  for  "  enemy."     Heb.  ^33, 
I.  nakra.     It  is  here  expressed  by  a  monogram.     But,  in 
(.  Col.  II.  22,  this  monogram  is  explained  as  nakra. 
Akissu,  a  heretic.     Heb-  akish,  U*py,  homo  perver- 

6US. 


56S 


THE    ANNALH    OF    ESARIIADDON. 


La  paM'h  belluH-ya  should  perhaps  be  rendered 
*'  who  paid  no  reverence  to  my  Dcitt/,"  t.  e.  Ashur. 

Whom  the  gods  had  abandoned  (line  38)  should  be 
perhaps  "  who  had  abandoued  the  gods,"  i.  e.  the  As- 
syrian gods,  and  served  others, 

Wemassharu^  from  ICQ,  to  abandon. 

Mail,  a  place.  The  word  for  "mountain  "was 
written  the  sanne,  but  perhaps  was  pronounced  dif- 
ferently. The  sign  '^'  has  other  values  besides  mat, 
for  instance  pil  and  A'ur.  It  has  perhaps  one  of  these 
values  when  it  means  "  a  mountain."  Ptd  would 
mean  "  a  rock."  Kuri  might  be  viewed  as  related  to 
Russian  goru,  mountain. 

Ittakil,  he  trusted.  From  Chald.  and  Syr.  tohl, 
h^n.  *con6dit,  fiduciam  habuit '  (Schindl.  1970). 


43.  Somi  ilim  rabitn  bdb  a];lia- 
rim  itshata. 

43.  ana  emukui-sun  itt&Uu. 

44.  Atiaku  ana  Athur  bd-ya 


The  names  of  ibe  great  goiii 
he  carved  upon  his  idols, 

and  to  their  u>ys.teriuus  poiim 
be  trBsted, 

But  I  trusted  unto  Ashur,  mv 
lord. 


Akharim.     Heb.  a^HN,  idols, 

Itshatu,  he  carved.  Heb.  "Ky,  etshad  (Ges.  787), 
to  cut  or  carve  wood  with  a  sharp-edged  tool.  This 
verb  occurs  in  the  Michaux  inscription,  last  line  of 

col.  i.,  ni$h  ilim  rnftim  in suata  itskat,  "  signa 

deorum  magnorum  in.  tabula  hAc  scnlpsit,"  The  cus- 
tom of  carving  the  emblems  of  the  Assyrian  deities  on 
idol  statues,  to  augment  their  power,  is  mentioaed 
twice  in  this  inscription:  Col.  III.  II,  and  Col.  It/. 
47. 

EmvXin.     Heb.  p?2y,  profundus. 


THE   ANNALS   OF   ESABHADDON. 


569 


Ittaklu,  same  as  ittakil,  in  1.  39. 

Atiakiluj  first  person  singular  of  same  verb. 


45.  Kimft  itzuri  valta  kireb  ma- 

46.  amasoa;  aklcireb  lut-zu. 

47.  Aua  danan  Ashor  bel-ya. 


Like  an  antelope  firom  the  mulst 
of  the  moaotain 

I  caught  him  ap,  and  bonnd 
hu  faaadB  with  fetters. 

Then  I  marked  upon  him  the 
emblem  of  A<hDr>  my  lord. 


The  comparison  of  lines  45,  46,  with  17,  18,  is  cu- 
rious. One  captive  was  taken  on  the  seas,  the  other 
in  the  mountains. 

Itzuri,  a  mountain  goat,  or  antelope.  From  Heb. 
\y,  etz  or  ez,  a  goat,  and  "ns,  tzw,  a  rock.  Groat  of 
the  rooks  :  rupicapra  iu  Latin. 

It  is  very  curious  that  the  antelope,  or  bouquetin, 
of  the  Pyrenees,  the  izzard,  retains  this  name  in  the 
Basque  language.  It  is  possible  that  the  resemblance 
may  be  accidental,  but  it  deserves  examination. 

I  understand  line  47  to  mean  that  the  captive  chief 
was  devotus,  doomed  to  death. 


48.  DiBi  zir  limi  imma 
49-  reehdun  Sanduairi 

50.  a  Abdimilkutti, 

51.  aa  kisbadi  oisi-rahi-snii  a- 
pakha ; 

52.  itti n  is ;  tar  n 

ahal. 

.53.  as  ribit  Ninua  etittik. 


The  heads  of  Sanduarri  and 
Abdimilkutti, 

with  the  heads  of  their  princi- 
pal chiefs,  I  struck  off; 

and  along  with  the  slaves,  old 
men,  cfaildreo,  and  women, 

to  the  palace  of  Nineveh  I  sent 
them. 


Line  48  is  obscure. 

Msi,   men  j   «»>,   race ;    limi,   feetival ;   imma,   the 
same.     Perhaps  it  raeaas  that  the  men  of  his  family 


<8?t» 


.THE    ANNALS    OP    &»ARIlAbDON. 


54.  Shalil  ir  Ar  .  . 
55 Musrt. 


Spoiler  of  the  city  Ar . 
,  ,  .  .  -  land  of  E^pt. 


Of  this  paragraph  only  tlie  com  men  cement  remaiiu:, 
and  that  in  a  mutilated  state.  It  treated  apparently 
of  the  king's  Egyptian  campaign. 


I 


were  immolated  at  the  same  religious  festival  or  eatto- 
da-fe. 

Kishadi,  heads  j  elsewhere  kishadati.     But  kishmU    . 
aho  means  the  sid€  of  anything,  the  bank  of  a  Hver^  i 
etc.     The  sense  of  as  Hshadi  is  therefore  dubious,  it 
may  perhaps   mean   "by  the  side  ot "   those  of  the 
chiefs. 

Apakh  is  a  doubtful  reading  :  it  may  be  ataT.     If 
apakh  is  right,  it  may  be  derived  from  Chald.  napakh, 
\-pSi1,  in  anotlier  conjugation  [KM.     On  the  other  hand, 
''  tttPT  may  be  the  Chald.  in3,  natar,  excussit,  decussit, 
loco  suo  movit  J  ftheace  Hiph.  attar,  inw,  dejecit,  de- 
cussit, detraxit, 

I  am  not  sure  how  the  word  was  pronounced  which 
I  have  rendered  "  slaves  "  in  1.  52. 

Is  or  isk  is  an  abbreviation  of  the  Heb,  word  it"^, 
isis  or  ishish,  '  senex,  canis  capiltia '  (Ges.  452,  455). 

Tar  and  shal  are  likewise  compendious  or  abbre- 
viated signs  for  children  and  women, 

Ribit :  the  meaning  of  this  common  word  is  rery 
uncertain.  Sometimes  it  seems  to  mean  a  palace »  at 
other  times  a  city  gate  :  and  a  hill. 

Etittik,  I  sent ;  literally,  1  caused  to  be  moved.  It 
is  the  t  conjugation  of  etik,  pnv,  to  move  :  '  diraovit, 
transtulit'  (Ges.  807). 


TBS    ANNALS   OP    ESARtlADOON.  571 

Column  II. 

The  commencement  of  this  column  is  broken.  In 
the  part  which  is  lost,  the  king  seems  to  have  said 
that  he  cut  off  the  heads  of  some  rebels. 

1 itkie  Bu,  I  collected  them  [the 

keadt], 

2.  ana  Ashur-ki  weraba,  unto  Assyria  I  sent  them  off, 

3.  as  dikhi  bab-rabi  aha  utdu  and  opposite  the  Great  EaHtem 
aba  Ninoa,  Gate  of  the  city  of  NincTeb, 

4.  itti  atai  rika aloog  with  the  heap  of  corpaea 

(iken  already) 

5.  weshaaib  suauti  kamish.  I  left  them  to  remain  for  ever. 

Wfraha,  or  werakka:  probably  from  331,  raJtab,  a 
vehicle. 

Utdu,  the  East :  literally  "  the  Rising;"  so  in  Latin 
Oriens. 

Atsi^  a  heap  :  occurs  frequently. 

Mihi  is  used  in  the  annals  of  Ashurakbbal  for  "  the 
corpses  of  the  slain,"  in  the  passage  where  he  says, 
'*  I  threw  the  slain  into  the  Euphrates."  It  may  be 
derived  from  Heb.  j^TI  or  pn,  rik,  to  smite. 

The  horizontal  wedge  which  commences  the  sign 
ri  is  sometimes  placed  under  it,  as  here.  Perhaps, 
however,  the  word  should  be  read  liiht.  This  would 
equally  mean  '*  the  slain,"  for  it  may  be  derived  from 
the  Cbaldee  i^hylikka,  to  slay  (Schindler,  955),  But 
this  verb  in  Arabic  means  abjecit,  projecit,.  which  per- 
haps gives  a  better  sense. 

.  Kamish,  for  ever,  is  frequent  in  Sargon's  inscrip- 
tions, where  it  is  always  written  in  the  abbreviated 
form  ka,  with  a  plural  sign  added.  The  etymology 
may  be  from  Chald.  D^p,  kim,  manens,  durans. 


572 


THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDOK. 


6.  a  Tiuspa  CrLcairraya, 

7.  zab  8&rda  shaaB^ar-au  rultn 

8.  as  kiti  Khubusan, 

d.  adt  gimir  uniBianati-su  we- 
ratziba  as  isku. 


Ami  Teispes,  king  of  the  He- 
ca? 

a  rebellious  warrior,  whoit 
abodes  was  far  distant 

in  tbe  land  of  Khabsan, 

and  all  bia  armr  1  destroyed 
witb  my  weapons. 


Teispes,  an  old  Persian  name.  One  of  the  ancestors 
of  Darius  had  the  same  name, 

Sarda,  probably  for  sarra^  Chald.  "ID  and  tid,  're- 

. bellis,  contumax,  perversus'  (Schindl.  1244).     But  the 

Chald.  mrba,  :i"iD,  has  exactly  the  same  meaning  (Sdi. 

1245),  so  that  It  is  doubtful  which  word  answers  to  the 

Assyrian. 

Wtmtziha.  This  verb  may  be  the  Heb.  nn,  occi- 
dit ;  or  else  VT^, '  transfixit'  (Ges,  949).  Iq  either  case 
a  vnu  has  usurped  the  phce  of  the  last  letter.  A  si- 
milar change  is  seen  in  the  two  Arabic  verbs  y^  and 
j!pn,  both  of  which  signify  "  paved  with  stones,"  ScL 
1764. 


10.  KabiU  (cisudi  nisi  mat  lihi- 
kkki; 

11.  mat  dubuka  aaibut  kbar- 
ftfaaoi, 

12.  sha  dibhi  mat  Tabal. 


Tronipler  u[>OD  the  inramoui 
tribes  of  the  Robber  Countrr; 

a  race  of  oatl&wi  iob&bifiogtlie 
forests. 

which  are  in  front  of  tbe  fer- 
tile (or  civilized)  conotry. 

Kahits  or  kabisk  occurs  frequently.  It  is  the  Heb- 
tt>^,  I'abish,  '  pedibus  conculcavit,  pedibus  subjecit' 
(Ges.  4G5). 

Kisudi,  rascals:  Heb.  "HDn,  khisudi,  'probrosi'  {Ges. 
356).  Schindler  (p.  620)  says,  Chaid.  MTiDH,  khisudo- 
Syr.  "TDn,  impietas,  immisericordia,  crudelitas,  oppro- 
brium, maleficiutn. 


THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 


573 


I 


Khilakkt  does  not  here  meaa  tbe  land  of  Cilicia,  but 
the  country  of  Robbers.  Khiiakld  are  the  khilak,  pSn, 
or  robbers^  in  Job  xvii.  5,  "  qui  piaedatoribuSj  pTTI  hy 
prodit  amicos  ;"  see  Ges.  345.  But  I  have  do  doubt 
we  have  here  tbe  true  origin  of  the  name  of  the  Cili- 
cians  in  Asia  Minor  ;  for  the  tribes  of  that  nation  were 
infamous  as  robbers,  froni  the  earliest  times. 

Duhuka,  outcasts  of  society,  outlaws :  Heb.  and  Syr- 
duhuk,pm,  'expulit,  abjecit,  ejecit,  repudiavit'{Schaars 
Lex.  p.  111). 

Tabal,  7^in,  terra  fei'tilis  et  habitala:  oirau/ietij  (Ges. 
1045),  Here  opposed  to  the  k/iarskani,  or  wild  forests. 
Tbe  root  is  Ss"".  In  all  piobabihty  we  here  see  the 
origin  of  the  name  of  the  land  of  Tabal  or  Tubal.  It 
was  descriptive  of  the  country  as  coiuparerl  with  its 
neighbours  ;  like  "  the  Highlands  "  and  "  the  Low- 
lands." 


13,  sha  eli  mati-snn  ittaltlu, 

t4.  Fultu  tanti  paoi  la  iknusD 
BDa  niri ; 

15.  XXI  iri-Bun  dEtniiuti, 

16.  adi  iri  tsakhiri  shv  limiti- 
Bun, 

17.  &lmt  aksut  aehlula  shalkt' 

18-  abtnl  agg-urao  ,  .  . .  ,  ak- 
rn-Q. 


who  trusted  to  their  mountains, 

and  frocn  ancient  timcB  had 
never  bowed  duwn  to  the  yoke ; 

twcDty-DDe  of  Lheir  etrong  ci- 
ties, 

and  the  smalt  towns  adjoining- 
to  them, 

I  attacked  and  took  them,  and 
carried  off  their  spoils  ■, 

then  I  ruined  and  destroyed 
them,  and  hurnt  them  with  fire. 

Mati-sun  I  have  rendered  "  their  mountains,"  but 
it  may  mean  **  the  nature  of  their  country."  The  use 
of  the  word  is  extremely  vague. 

-  9^  Sittuti-s«in  sha  khitlhu  The  best  of  them,  who  crimea 

20.  u  kulluluL  la  Isn,  and  murders  had  not  comtnitted, 

21,  ittu  nir  belluti^ya  ebit  tzu-  I  only  compelled  to  receive  my 
nut).  yoke. 


574 


THB    ANNALS    OF    E8ARH ADDOn.- 


Khitlhu,  Heb.  Mtitl,  khitha,  '  peccatum,  delictum' 
(Ges.  331).  Perliaps,  however,  we  should  read  A'hitiu, 
murders.  Heb.  7t2p,  ciBtles,  from  biap,  'occidit'  (Ges. 
8S9). 

Kullul  is  probably  a  murder,  from  Heb.  khalil,  Mtt, 
*  vulneravit,  conlbdit,  transfodit,  interfedt '  (Ges.  342). 

Isu,  fecerunt ;  trom  Heb.  asah,  riC^y,  fecit. 

Ittti.  The  firat  sign  in  this  word  signifies  '*  one." 
It  was  pronounced  hid  or  hed.  It  is  the  Heb,  TP, 
,unus.  The  meaning  of  itiu  appears  from  the  context, 
The  king  is  speaking  of  the  mercy  he  showed  to 
some  of  his  eneiuies,  "  coegi  eos  itlu  (unic^)  subire 
jugum." 

Ebit  seems  to  mean  "  servire  fecit  vel  subjugavit." 
Perhaps  it  is  the  Heb.  TX?n,  Hiph.  of  -rnv.  serriit. 
With  this  whole  passage,  compare  Sennacherib's  in- 
scription (B.  M.  39,  5),  where  that  uioaarch  pardons 
some  of  tiie  inhabitants  oi  Ekron  —  Sittuti-sun,  la  ba- 
bil  khiditi  u  kullultij  sha  arati  II  la  ibsu,  usshur-suu 
akbi.     "  The  best  of  them,  who  were  not  stained  wEth 
crimes  and  murders,  and  who  had  never  swerved  from 
the  true  religion  of  God,  those  I  commanded  to  be 
rewarded."     Here  khiditi  answers  to  khitthu  of  the 
Esarhaddon  inscription,  and  kuUuIti  to  kullulut.     Ba- 
bit  appears  to  mean  ^stained,'  from  72  or  773,  'macu- 
lavit,  inquinavit'  [Ges.  151).    The  BeUino  inscription, 
1,  13,  replaces  babil  khiditi  by  bel  khiddi.     Arati  is 
explained  in  the  lex.  "pietas  ergci  Deiim,"  and  "  pro- 
bitas,   reverenlia;"  from   the  Heb.   N^^,  pius  probus 
fuit,  Deum  timuit.      La  ibsu  nunquam  ces^avrruDt; 
from  Heb,  DCS,  'cessavit'  (Ges.  88).     This  verb  is 
used  in  the  inscriptions  of  Ashurakhbal,  where  he 
says  that  la  ibsu  (be  had  never  ceased)  from  gaining 


THE    ANNALS    OF    ESAEUADDON. 


575 


victories  over  foreign  nations.  *•  I  commanded  to  be 
rewarded  "  is  Dr.  Hincks's  translation  (Museum,  vol. 
i.  p.  215),  and  seems  very  probable.  AkU  frequently 
means  "  I  gave  command."  Usshur,  to  reward:  this 
verb  I  would  derive  frofn  shur,  a  golden  bracelet,  a 
frequent  mark  of  honour.  Heb.  rntt>,  '  armilla,  tor- 
ques, catena'  (Ges.  1038). 


22.  Daieh  mati  BaniBki  oakra 
akissu, 

23.  asibot  Ttl-Ashorri, 
24-  aha  in  pi  uni 

25.  tr  Mikhrana,  ir  Pitanu, 

26.  msmba  ziga-aau. 


Conqaeror  of  the  land  of  Bar- 
naki,  who  are  enemies  and  here* 
tics, 

dwelling  in  Til-Ashur, 

which  in  the  tongue  of  the 
people  themselves 

the  cities  Mikran  and  Pitan 

men  call  their  names. 


Nakru  akissu.     See  Col.  I.  37. 

In  pi  nisi,  in  ore  hominum. 

Inambu.  The  verb  namba,  vocare,  occurs  frequently, 
and  must,  I  think,  be  referred  to  the  Indo-Germanic 
root  nomen,  Svo/w. :  Pers.  nam. 

27.  Mufthippikh  nisi  Mannaya,         Dlsperser  of  the  inhabitants  of 

the  land  of  Manna, 

who  did  not  keep  their  (treaty?) 

(and)  who  the  army  of  Ispa- 
kiah, 

king  of  Aahguza,  a  crowd  of 
soldiers  who  could  not  save  them- 
selves, 

destroyed  with  his  weapons. 


28.  kntn  la  tsanaka ; 

29.  aha  ummanati  Ishpakaya, 

• 

30.  Ashguzaya,  ikru  lamuaha- 
zibi-so, 

31.  inam  as  eskn. 


Mvshippikh,  from  l^S^,  skapak,  to  disperse. 

Ikru,  an  armed  host ;  probably  from  Heb.  "UM,  to 
collect  together.  When  the  king  of  Susa  led  a  vast 
army  agfunst  Sennacherib,  the  assembled  multitude  is 
termed  ileru  rabu. 

VOL.  VII.  2  Q 


576  THE    ANNALS   OF    ESARHADDON. 

Miishazib,  particip.  of  Chald.  itv,  shazib,  to  save. 

32.  DamishNabo-zir-gisidipal  Conqueror  of  Nabo-zir-giadi, 
Marduk-baladBD,  Bon  of  Merodacb-Bahdm, 

S3,  sha  aoa  sar  Elamti  ittakla,         who  trusted  to  the  king  of  So- 

uaoa, 

34.  la  neshazibu  napshat-zu.  but  did  DOt  thereby  save  his  life. 

Nabo-zir-gisidi  appears  to  mean  "  Nebo  loves  the 
race;"  from  Heb.  TDH,  khisid,  benignus  C*  *Je  Deo, 
gratiosus/  Ges.  357).  It  is  not  impossible  that  the 
name  of  his  father  Marduk-baladan  may  have  meant 
similarly  "Marduk,  love  the  child!"  from  py,  adan, 
delicise.  The  usual  etym.  is  from  nadan^  to  give  (fut 
idttn) ;  but  the  other  meaning  may  be  supported  by 
the  example  of  an  ancient  monarch,  whose  name  was 
Ninev-bal-ukkur,  "  Ninev,  love  the  child!"  from  yf> 
cams  fuit. 

Ittaklu,  he  trusted  ;  from  Chald.  and  Syr.  73r»,  ta- 
kal,  fidit,  con6dit. 

35.  Nahit-Marduk  akh-8u  Then  Neith-Marduk,  hia  bro- 

ther 

36.  aahsa  episfa  arduti-ya.  made  haste  to  do  homage  to 

me. 

.  The  name  of  Nahit-Marduk  may  mean  '*  Marduk 
is  glorious."  Compare  the  name  of  king  Nabo-nahid, 
viz.  "  Nebo  is  glorious." 

Asksu  is  a  doubtful  word.  If  it  is  a  verb,  it  may  be 
\yn,  hash,  festinavit,  i.  e.  be  made  haste  to  come, 
and  do  homage ;  see  Schindler,  p.  549.  Or  perhaps 
it  may  be  ^V,  "  he  resolved,"  "  he  took  the  resolution," 
viz.  to  come  and  pay  homage  to  me. 

37.  Valtu  kireb  Elamti  innab-         From  the  land  of  the  Susiaat 
tu  ;  he  made  his  escape ; 


THE    ANNALS    OF    E8ARHADD0N. 


577 


ya. 


38.  ana  Ninua  ir  belluti-ya 

39.  ilUk-amma,  wenasstk    nir- 
I. 

40.  Mat  parti  aaa  sikharti-sha. 


unto  NioeTeli,  the  city  of  my 
royally, 

he  came  and  Itiesed  ray  yoke, 


41.  ridat  akhi-sa  weshatkil  pa- 
nuasa. 


The  entire  district  on  the  Sea- 
coaat, 

which  was  the  inheritance  of 
his  brother,  I  gave  to  him. 

Ana  sikhirta-sha,  in  its  entirety,  or  throughout  the 
whole  of  it.     The  same  as  ana  gimirti-sfia. 

Ridut,  inheritance.  This  is  the  Syr.  «nifiV,  sV/uiaj 
inheritance,  wanting  the  initial  vowel.  Root  PT)"'  iu  Sy- 
riac,  butun^  in  Hebrew,  haeres  fuit;  dropping  the  vowel 
in  the  imp.  and  inf.  tn,  ntin  (Ges.  447).  The  re- 
semblance of  htsres  to  un\  and  of  hared-  to  nv,  and 
ht^editim)  to  mriT,  is  so  close  that  I  think  the  Ro- 
mans had  this  word  from  the  Etruscans,  who  brought 
it  from  the  East.  The  resemblance  has  not  escaped 
Gesenius,  who  says,  "  nescio  an  Lat.  heres,  heredis, 
ejusdem  origiais  sit." 

The  eldest  brother  having  died  in  Susiaiia  (see  1.  34), 
the  inheritance  of  old  Merodach-Baladan's  kingdom 
devolved  on  the  next  brother,  Nahit-Marduk,  and  the 
king  of  Assyria  confirmed  him  in  it,  on  condition  that 
he  acknowledged  his  supremacy. 

Weskatkit,  I  gave,  properly  means  "I  entrusted" 
the  government  of  these  lands  to  him.  It  is  the  sha 
or  causative  conjugation  of  takat,  7^n,  confidit,  which 
verb  we  had  in  line  33. 

42.  Nabihamati  B&th-Dakkur-  Destroyer  of  the  city  of  Beth- 
ri,  Dakkurri, 

43.  aha  kireb  K^ldi  yab  Babll.         nhich  ia  in  CkaldEca,  and  ia  the 

enemy  of  BabyJon. 

44.  KamishShenaB-ebnisar-au,         Conqueror  of  Sbems-ebni,  it* 

king, 


1 


578  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

45.  ish  kilba  kilbitha  la  pali-         an  old  mao — vile  and  hatdio}— 
khu  zikri  Bel  bieli.  who  wonld  not  worship  the  oime 

of  the  lord  of  lords   (tiz.  Mv- 

duk). 

Yab,  an  enemy.  The  plural  of  this  word,  yahi,  is 
very  common,  but  the  singular  is  rare.  It  is  the  Heb. 
S'^M,  hostis  ;  from  root  l''M,  edit,  hostis  fuit. 

Shems-ebni,  i.  e.  "  the  Sun  created  him.'*  The  same 
verb  is  seen  in  the  name  of  king  Ashur-bani-pal,  aod 
in  the  phrase  abi-bani-ya,  "  my  father." 

Ish  is  the  Heb.  ty^'tt^',  senex.  This  word  has  already 
been  treated  of  in  Col.  I.  52. 

Kilbu  kilbithu  probably  means  "  dog  of  dogs,"  from 
Heb.  s'^a.  Vituperative  epithets  abound  when  here- 
tics are  spoken  of.  Susubi  has  the  epithet  Kalebaia. 
Another  enemy  is  contemptuously  called  "  the  sod  of 
nobody." 

46.  sha  asibut  nasikkan  Babi-  (and)  who  man;  of  the  con- 
lu                                                             mon  people,  subjects  of  the  prin- 

cea  of  Babylon 

47.  a  Bartship  as  parikti  itbalu.       and  Borsippa,  had  seduced  into 

heresy. 

48.  Aeeu  anaku  butukti  Bel  u  Then  the  true  worship  of  Bd 
Nabiu,  idu  and  Nebo,  among 

49.  asibut  sinati  wetaru.  these  people  I  re-established. 

The  monogram  for  "  princes  "  is  of  doubtful  pro- 
nunciation, perhaps  nasikkan. 

Parikti  is  probably  heresy,  or  rather  schism,  from 
Heb.  parak,  separavil. 

Itbalu.  T  conjugation  of  Heb.  773.  or  TT72.,  Ges. 
151,  '  maculavit,  deturpavit;'  also  *  confudit  (maxime 
sermonem).'  Either  sense  suits  well.  The  land  was 
thrown  into  confusion  by  its  prince  renouncing  the  wor- 


THK    ANNALS    OF    ESARUADDQN.  579 

ship  of  Marduk.  It  is  possible  however  that  (u^iart^^i 
ilbalu  may  be  "  he  plunged  them  into  heresy;"  from 
Heb.  7319,  tabal,  immersit. 

Assu,  then.  This  word  may  be  compared  with  the 
Heb.  Ttt?M,  then,  which  occurs  in  Deut.  ii.  22,  etc. 
The  final  r  is  sometimes  omitted  in  Assyrian,  as  tsiba, 
a  heap  ;  Heb.  tsibar. 

Idu,  among.  Several  words  occur  in  the  inscrip- 
tions derived  from  Heb.  in,  hid  or  id  (unus),  such  as 
in  id,  uak.  Indeed  the  common  preposition  itti,  \mk 
cum,  appears  to  be  thence  derived,  unless  it  is  the 
Heb.  nt4,  one  of  the  meanings  of  which  is  '  with.' 

Bel  may  mean  here  "  the  lord,"  i.e.  Marduk,  and 
not  the  god  Bel. 

50.  Pan  nasikkan  Babil  a  Bart-  (And)  to  the  princes  of  Babjr- 
ship  Ion  and  Borsippa 

51.  weehatkil.  I  gave  them. 

52.  Neboaballiin  pal  Balatzu,  Neboehallim,  eon  of  Balatzu, 

53.  nB  guza-sn  weshaaibu,  I  placed  upon  his  throne  (i.  e. 

that  of  Shema-ebni), 

54.  isbada  abshani.  and  he  did  homuge  to  me. 

Pan  is  used  as  a  preposition,  meaning  *  belonging 
to  *  or  '  possessed  by,'  ex.  gr.  weskatkil  panussun  (for 
pan  sun),  "  I  gave  into  their  possession." 

Weskatkil.     See  line  41  of  this  column. 

Nebo-shallim,  i.  e.  Nebo  save  !  or  perhaps  as  a  sub- 
stantive, '*  Nebo,  the  saviour." 

The  last  line  occurs  frequently,  but  the  spelling 
varies.  Generally  it  is  isutku  abshani.  It  means  that 
"  he  did  homage  to  me ;"  but  the  grammatical  con- 
struction is  uncertain. 

Ishada  is  probably  from  TDn. 


580  THE    ANNALS   OP   8BARHADDON. 

55.  Ir  Adama,  ir  dannnti  mati        Thecityof  E!dom,tbeitroiigat 
Aribt.  city  of  the  land  of  the  Aralmni, 

56.  eha  Seoakhirib  sar  Ashur  which    SenDacherib,    king  of 

Assyria, 

57.  (iiAv)  bana-^  iksudu  my  father,  had  conquered 

The  rest  of  this  paragraph  is  broken  off.     The  word 
abu  is  also  destroyed. 

Column  III. 

The  first  three  lines  of  this  column  are  destroyed. 

THE  SUPPLIANT  KING. 

4.  itti  tamarti-sa  kabitti,  with  his  abundant  presents, 

5.  ana  Ninna,  ir  belluti-ya,  onto  Nineveh,  my  royal  city, 

6.  illik-amma,  wenassik  nir-ya.        be  came,  and  kissed  my  yoke. 

7.  Assu  oatao  ilu-su  wetsalla        Then  holding  forth  to  me  hit 
anima ;  gods,  he  made  supplication  to 

me; 

8.  rima  arsi-sa ;  I  took  pity  on  him ; 

9.  ilu  shatuDu  ankhut-sun  atti-         I  repaired  the  injuries  on  thoK 
shu,  images  of  his  gods, 

10.  danan  Ashur  bel-ya,  the  emblems  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 

11.  u  sidhir  mn-ya  eli-soQ  we-         and  the  writing   of  my  own 
shaahdiru,  name,  I  caused  to  be  written  on 

them, 

12.  wetaru  attan-su,  and  I  gave  them  back  to  Mm 

again. 

Natan,  yii2,  in  the  sense  of '  extendens  manum,  por- 
rigens'  (Ges.  1062). 

Rimu,  with  pity  ;  Heb.  Dm,  *  misertus  est '  (Ges. 
933). 

Arsi-su,  I  received  him  kindly.  The  root  seems  to 
be  Heb.  ns^,  'benevolo  excepit  dona  ferentera'  (Ges. 
948). 


THB    ANNALS   OF    ESARHADDON. 


581 


The  last  part  of  line  9  occurs  in  many  other  inscrip- 
tions. 1  would  derive  ankkut  from  n^V,  anah,  to  in- 
jure, which  in  Assyrian  seems  to  have  been  n^V*  A 
tense  of  this  verb  occurs  firequently,  inakku,  it  shall 
decay  (said  of  a  palace). 

Sidhir,  to  write,  and  subst.  a  writing.  Hence  in  the 
sha  conjugation  weshashdhir,  I  caused  to  be  written. 

Wetaru  or  utoru:  adverb,  'again  ;*  this  word  occurs 
frequently. 


13.  Sfaal  taba-ya  tarbit  hailcal- 


14.  aoa  larati  eli-san  ashkun ; 

15.  itti  ila-aha  ana  roat-Bba  we- 
tar-si. 


A  yonng  woman,  brought  op 
in  ntT  palace, 

I  appoioted  to  be  queen  over 
tbem; 

with  her  goda  unto  her  country 
I  restored  her. 


Shal  tabu,  a  young  woman.  This  adjective  occurs 
in  B.  M.  41, 4.     Akksu  tabu-sau,  his  younger  brother. 

Tarbit,  brought  up  ;  feminine  from  nil,  to  grow 
up:  Ges.  919,  'adolevit.'  It  seems  that  she  became 
the  wife  of  the  suppliant  monarch ;  this  however  is 
not  very  clearly  expressed. 


16.  LXV  garoali  eli  madatti 

1 7.  abu-ya  makrtti  weraddi, 

18.  hukin  tsirussa. 

1 9.  Arka  Hazael  shimot . . .  . 


20.  Yahiln,  tar-8u, 

21.  as  guza-8u  weehasib. 

22.  X  mana  (avrt) :  fmille  1a- 
pides)  birsti, 

23.  L  gammali:  M  kunzt-ahim- 
di, 

24.  eli   madati  abi-sn    nraddl 
ebitztt. 


65  camele,  increased  beyond 
the  tribute 

{he  paid  to]  my  late  father, 

I  imposed  upon  him. 

After  (/  had  deprived  Hazael 
of  the  crown  ?) 

Yahila,  his  son, 

I  placed  upon  hia  throne. 

Ten  minee  of  gold  :  a  thousand 
precious  stones : 

50  camels  :  a  thousand 

increased  beyond  the  tribute 
which  his  father  paid,  I  imposed 
npcQ  him. 


582  THE    ANNALS   OF    E8ARHADD0N. 

The  meaning  of  line  19  is  uncertain.  Shimut  may 
be  the  same  as  simatt  a  crown. 

The  phrase  kukin  tsirussu,  line  18,  generally  marks 
the  conclusion  of  a  subject.  I  therefore  suppose  that 
Hazael  was  not  the  same  person  as  "  the  suppliaot 
king.' 

Ten  TntRfC  would  be  about  £40  sterling  of  oar 
money. 

Biruti.  The  root  seems  to  be  Heb.  "IMD,  par,  *pul- 
cher  fuit '  (Ges.  809),  whence  "^MD,  a  tiara  or  diadem. 
A  similar  word,  the  precious/jarwii  stone,  is  frequently 
mentioned  in  the  inscriptions. 

Uraddi  or  weraddi,  augmented.  Here  it  appears  to 
be  a  participle. 

THE    CONQUEST    OF  THE    MARSH    COUNTRY  Of 
LOWER   CHALDjEA. 

25.  Batzu  nagii  sha  ashar-su  The  Marsh  Couotry,  whoH  si- 
ruku,  taatioD  i?  remote, 

26.  mtlak  ntibuli  eligar  muna-  a  great  dietrtct  of  overfloffed 
khir  zumi,  land,  cursed  with  famioe, 

Batzak,  a  marsh;  Heb.  rrfl,  'palus'  (Ges.  I65i; 
and   yj,  cienum,  lutum. 

Nagu,  a  province  or  district,  occurs  frequently- 

Milak  or  malak,  a  long  journey;  from  ibn,  alak,  ire, 
proficisci.  Thus  we  have  malak  30  kasbu,  a  distance 
or  voyage  of  30  leagues. 

Nabali,  overflowed.  Compare  nahalish  u-etar,  'I 
filled  it  to  overflowing' — said  of  a  canal  which  the  king 
caused  to  be  made  (Bellino's  Cylinder).  Root  related 
to  Heb.  ^22,  coj>iose  effudit,  scaturivit. 

Munakhir,  from  132,  '  infortunium  '  (Ges.  669).  Tliis 
word  is  used  for  "  great  calamity  or  ruin,"  Job  xxxi.3, 


THE    ANNALS    OP    BSARHADDON.  583 

and  Obad.  line  12,  "  ne  rideas  in  die  calamitatia  (~D3) 
fratris  tui." 

Zumi  or  tzumi,  famine ;  Heo.  tns,  jejunare,  and 
subst.  jejuDium. 

27.  CXL  kasba  ebgar  batsi,  140  leagues  of  marah  land, 

28.  bukutta  a  takkazabit;  uomhabited,  eod  utterly  worth- 

less ; 

29.  XX  kasba  ebgar  tsJr  n  ru-  then  20  leagues  of  a  high  and 
tap,  well-watered  country, 

30.  sba  kima which  like 

Kasbu  I  have  translated  "  a  league."  When  used 
for  a  measure  of  time,  it  is  two  hours. 

Buhitta,  void  of  inhabitants ;  Heb.  TT^X  evacuatio, 
depopulatio,  in  Nahum. 

Takkazabit,  quite  worthless;  see  Schindler,  855. 
The  root  is  ItD,  Aazab,  vanus,  nugax,  inams.  Perhaps 
however  it  is  from  the  Hiph.  form,  3'^Dn,  hakkazib, 
**  conviciis  premere,"  to  speak  of  a  thing  as  worthless. 
In  that  case  we  may  translate  takkazabit,  a  land  "  of 
evil  repute,"  or  "  very  ill  spoken  of." 

Tsir  u  rutap  I  have  rendered  "high  and  well- 
watered."  Tgir  signifies  "  high,"  and  occurs  in  that 
sense  very  frequently. 

Kutap  is  well  irrigated,  and  causing  fertility ;  see 
Schindler,  1731,  aisn,  maduit,  irrigatus  fuit,  viruit. 
Arab.  r«/a6,  humidi,  moUes,  teneri.  Cbald.  yvn,  hu- 
midus,  viridis.  Job  xxiv.,  '*  They  shall  be  moistened 
(latST')  by  the  mountain  streams "  (as  translated  by 
Schindler).  This  seems  to  have  been  the  only  part  of 
the  south  country  worth  conquering. 

Line  30  is  difficult,  and  I  observe  that  the  other  cy- 
linder omits  lines  29,  30,  and  substitutes  quite  a  dif- 
ferent phrase;  see  B.  M.  (1st  series),  pi.  56,  12.     It 


584  THS    ANNALS    OF    B8ARHADDON. 

is,  however,  illegible,  except  the  first  word  ashar,  a 
place. 

31.  XX  Vaaba  mati  khatzu.  Then  20  Ieag;Des  of  brokeD 
fihaddi  aboam,  ahakkil  nam,  coantrr,  a  region  of  rocks,  barren 

in  the  extreme, 

32.  ana  arka-ya  wemasshim ;  behind  me  I  left ;  and  I  then 
etik  marched 

33.  na^  snatu  aha  valta  tami  into  a  re^on,  which  in  former 
valluti  times 

34.  laillikaBarpanimakhri-ra.         no  king,  of  all  my  anceston, 

had  ever  penetrated. 

35.  As  kihit  Ashar  bel-ya.  By  the  command  of  Aahor,  mv 

lord, 

36.  aa  girbi-su  sfaaldanish  attal-  into  the  midst  of  it  proudly  I 
lak.  advanced. 

Khatzu,  fractus ;  from  Syr.  tQ^,  freg^t.  Compare 
French  casser. 

Shaddi.    Heb.  rTTO,  campus,  ager. 

Shaklil.  Heb.  h:i^,  *  sterilis  fuit '  (Ges.  1003); 
VlDU^,  quite  deserted  ;  '  ab  omnibus  relictus '  (Ges.). 

Nam  :  this  particle  seems  to  mean  '  exceedingly.' 
I  am  not  sure  to  what  root  it  should  be  referred,  but 
perhaps  to  the  Arabic  MD3,  nama,  otherwise  "^3,  nami, 
crevit,  multiplicavit ;  and  as  a  subst.,  TO3,  rT33,  na- 
mu,  namek,  'multiplicatio  ;'  see  Schindler  1124. 

WemashirUy  from  "IDD,  reliquit,  which  occurs  fre- 
quently in  the  inscriptions. 

Etik.  Heb.  pnv,  'castra  movit,'  in  Hiph.  (Ges.  807). 

Nagu  suatu,  that  region.  I  have  introduced  these 
two  words,  which  are  found  on  the  second  cyhnder. 
They  seem  very  necessary  to  the  sense. 

Kibit,  a  command  ;  from  the  same  root  as  aibi,  I 
commanded  ;  Hbu,  he  commanded ;  t^&unt,  they  com- 
manded. 


THB    ANNALS   OF   ESARHADDOM. 


585 


SkaldanUh,  from  Heb.  D7t£>,  dominus  fuit.  Ghald. 
puW,  domiaus.  Hence  the  word  Sultan  or  Soldan, 
according  to  Scbindler,  Lex.  p.  1873. 

Shaidanisht  "like  a  king,"  or  "proudly,  with  royal 
state." 

Attallak,  t  conjugation  of  the  verb  allak,  to  advance. 
Heb.  f:n. 


37.  VIII  BBriti  Bha  kireb  oagie 

dURtB 

38.  adnk.     Ilu-son,  shaaa-aun, 
ahaga-aun, 

39.  a  Diai-sun  ashlula  ana  kireb 
Aahur-ki. 

40.  Layali,  sar  ir  Yadlho, 

41.  aba  valta  lapao  eakuti-ya 
ippanida, 

42.  ahallat  Uu-aa  iafamia 

43.  ana  Niooa-ki  ir  belluti-ya, 

44.  adi  teirri-yaUlik-amma 

45.  wenaaeik  nir-ya. 

46.  Rima  arai-eu:     aktabi-au 
ashak. 


Eight  kings  of  the  interior  of 
tbat  coaotry 

I  slew.  Their  gods,  their  trea- 
sures, their  gooda, 

and  their  people.  I  carried  away 
captive  into  Assyria. 

Layali.  king  of  the  city  of  Ya- 
dihu, 

who  had  fled  from  befare  my 
anna, 

hearing  of  the  captore  of  bis 
gods, 

onto  Nineveh,  my  royal  dty, 

UDto  my  majesty  he  came,  and 
kissed  my  yoke. 

I  took  pity  on  him.  I  com- 
manded that  he  should  be  par- 
doned. 


Aktabi  is  the  t  conjugation  of  akbi,  "I  gave  com- 
mand." This  verb  frequently  occurs,  ex.  gr.  when 
Sennacherib  took  the  city  of  Ekrou,  he  put  to  death 
the  rebellious  citizens,  but  there  was  a  loyal  minority 
whom  he  spared  and  rewarded.  The  words  are, 
wahur-sun  akbi,  I  gave  command  to  honour  or  decorate 
them,  see  B.  M.  39,  7. 

Aahak  means  probably  to  pardon ;  from  y^j  libe- 
rare,  pronouncing  the  y  hard,  as  the  Arabic  ghain. 
The  same  root  occurs,  I  think,  in  the  name  of  a  man 


586  THE    ANNALS   OF    ESABHADDON. 

on  the  Zaaleh  stone,  viz.  San-sik-ash-ka,  or  *'  San,  pre- 
serve thy  votary  !"  He  was  probably  a  priest  of  San, 
the  lunar  deity.  But  if  this  explanation  of  ashak  is 
not  admissible,  I  think  the  word  may  be  an  error  for 
ashur,  to  decorate ;  the  word  (whatever  it  is)  being 
partly  defaced  on  the  cylinder. 

47.  Ilu-au  sha  ashlula,  danaa  His  gods  which  I  bad  captured; 
Ashur  bel-TR,  the  emblem  of  Ashnr,  my  lord, 

48.  eli-suD  ashtburu,  utaru  at-  npoa  them  I  inscribed,  and  I 
tan-au.  gave  them  to  him  once  more. 

49.  Nagie  mati  Batzi  aaata  Those  provinces  uf  the  Hinb 

Couotry 

50.  wesbatkil  paoussu  :  I  entrusted  to  his  jorisdictioDi 
31.  tikoD  mandatta  belluti-ya          a  settled  tribute  to  my  majotv 

52.  hukin  tsirussu.  I  imposed  apoa  bim- 

Weshatkil,  I  entrusted,  is  the  sha  coujugatioo  of 
takil,  to  trust.  Chald.  h^n,  '  confidit '  (Schindler, 
1970). 

53.  Belbasha  pal  Bunani  Gam-  Belbasba,  son  of  Bunatii,  kin^ 
bulaya,  of  the  Gambuli  tribe, 

54.  sha  as  XII  kasbu  ebgar  as  who  [in  an  inland]  12  leasu^'' 
niami  u  gi^bukki,  [/rom  (Ac /unrf]  amidst  the  waters 

aud  the  waves, 
oii.  kima  nuni  mesbkuuu  ruta.         like   fishes   have   placed  tbeir 

humid  dwellings. 

After  describing  the  conquest  of  the  Marsh  countn" 
of  Lower  Chaldsea,  he  passes  on  to  their  neighbours 
tlie  Gambuli,  who  dwelt  in  some  small  islands  in  the 
Persian  Gulf,  where  probably  some  of  them  followed 
the  occupation  of  pearl  fishers,  for  which  that  sea  has 
always  been  famous.  Their  humid  way  of  life  is  par- 
ticularly spoken  of. 


TBS    ANNALS    OP    ESAEHADDON.  587 

Kasbu  alone  is  a  measure  of  time  (two  hours),  but 
ktisbu  ebgar  is  a  measure  of  length,  which  I  have 
vaguely  translated  "a  league."  Ebgar  is  earth  or 
land,  but  I  am  uncertain  how  the  word  was  pro- 
nounced. 

Mami,  if  I  have  written  the  word  rightly,  is  the  Heb. 
D"^,  waters. 

Giskukki  I  suppose  to  mean  "  waves,"  which  are 
elsewhere  called  gibiskti. 

Ruta  may  be  the  same  word  as  nttab,  humidus, 
which  we  have  already  had  in  this  inscription,  Col.  III. 
29.  This  sense  seems  to  suit  the  passage  well.  In 
Job  xxiv.  6,  ^1,  maduit  pluvi^,  to  be  wet  with  rain. 
Here  "  to  be  always  wet  with  the  spray  of  the  sea  " 
may  be  the  meaning  intended. 

56.  aB  kibit  Aahur  bel-ya  khata  On  [hearinif]  the  commaod  of 
imkatzo,  Aahnr.  my  lord,   he  was  struck 

with  terror. 

57.  ki  bilim  nimaai-su 

58.  bilat  u  mandatta  tribnte  aod  offerings  [Aeinw^A/ 
to  my  majesty]. 

The  first  cuneiform  sign  in  khatu  is  generally  to  be 
pronounced  pa.  The  value  kha,  which  occurs  in  this 
word  and  in  a  few  others,  is  comparatively  very  rare. 
A  special  example  of  it  is  seen  in  the  name  of  the 
great  nation  of  the  Khati  or  Khatti,  viz.  Syria.  That 
it  was  pronounced  as  kha  in  the  present  word,  appears 
from  the  frequent  occurrence  of  the  phrase  khatu  im- 
kutzu,  or  imkutsu  khatu  in  other  inscriptions,  written 
with  the  usual  form  of  the  syllable  kha.  Khatu  is  the 
Heb.  m,  terror. 

Imkutzu,  he  was  struck  ;  from  makhatz  or  makhaz, 
to  strike.    Heb.  \TTD,  percussit.    Another  derived  word 


588  THS    ANNALS   OF    BBARHADDON. 

from  this  root  is  iakhaziy  battle,  which  frequently  occurs 
in  the  inscriptions. 

The  meaning  of  line  57  is  doubtful.  Ramani  usu- 
ally signi6es  '  soldiers,'  or  perhaps  '  officers/ 

Ki  bilim  ilimu,  "  by  command  of  the  gods,"  is  a  fic- 
queat  phrase.  But  ki  bilim  ramani-sUt  "  by  commaiid 
of  his  officers,"  or  "the  chiefs  of  his  army,"  is  a  very 
improbable  translation.  We  might  say,  perhaps,  "  by 
consent  of  his  chiefs,"  or  "  urged  by  them,"  he  sent 
tribute  to  me.  Perhaps,  however,  his  ramani  were 
his  gods  or  higher  powers,  from  DDl,  altus  fiiit.  But 
I  have  not  found  this  meaning  of  ramam  elsewhere. 

Column  IV. 

1 wenassik  lUT'ya and  be  kissed  my  yoke. 

2.  rimu  arai-sa :  wesharkits  I  took  pity  on  him :  I  gave  him 
iharrati.  a  golden  necklace. 

3.  Ir  Shapi-Bel  ir  danmiti-sn.  Of  Shapi-Bel,  bis  fortified  city, 

4.  dannat-zu  wedanninu;  I  strengthened  the  fortifications: 

5.  Sbaasu  adi  zabi-kim-su  as  bimself  and  his  archen  withia 
libbi  the  city 

6.  weshali-au;  I  left; 

7.  kima  ikti  £Iamti  edil-su,  and  like  a  palm-tree  of  the  hod 

of  Elamti,  I  caused  him  to  flourisb. 

Wesharkits,  the  sha  conjugation  of  Heb.  D3"l,  rflftw, 
ligavit. 

Shurrut,  a  chain  or  necklace  of  honour,  from  Heb. 
mitZ?,  shurut,  catenee,  armillse  (Ges.  1038) ;  from  TTW, 
a  contorquendo  dictse,  ut  Lat.  torques. 

Wesharkits  shurruti  is  therefore,  '  I  bound  him  with 
a  chain  of  honour,  or  placed  a  golden  collar  round  his 
neck.' 

As  libbi,  in  the  interior  thereof. 


THE    ANNALS   OF    E8ARHADD0N.  589 

Weshali^  probably  for  weshari,  I  left;  from  Heb. 
shar^  "IfcW,  'reliquus  fuit '  (Ges.  975). 

EdU.  This  verb  means  in  Assyrian,  to  repair  or 
restore,  or  exalt  and  beautify.  Thus  in  B.  M.  70,  23 
(first  series),  a  king  calls  himself  the  Mvdil,  or  Restorer 
of  the  temple  of  Kharrish-Kurkura.  It  appears  to  be 
the  Arabic  hiy,  edel  (Ges.  739),  to  which  he  attributes 
the  sense  of  '  generosus  fuit ;'  while  Schindler  renders 
it  *  renovavit,'  which  agrees  with  the  Assyrian. 

Ikti,  This  word  has  the  sign  for  tree  or  wood  pre- 
fixed to  it. 

8.  Fatnsarra  nagn,  aha  itie  . . .        In  the  district  of  PatuBarra, 

which  borders  upon 

9.  aba  Idreb  Madaya  rnkuti,  which  is  in  the  further  part  of 

Media, 
10.  aha  padi  Bikni,  shaddi  abni         in  the  province  of  Bikni,  the 
zamat :  coantry   of  the  precioos  zamat- 

stone : 

Patu  or  pati  evidently  meant '  a  city '  in  the  Median 
tongue,  for  it  is  found  in  the  names  of  many  places. 

Itie,  the  frontiers  of  a  land. 

Padi  is  probably  the  Heb.  n^^S,  pat,  latus,  regio, 
e.  g.  IMID  nt®,  regio  Moabi  (Ges.  808) ;  in  fact,  it  is 
sometimes  written  pat  in  the  Assyrian  inscriptions, 
e.g.  Botta,  pi.  13,  11. 

Bikni.  The  geographical  position  of  this  country 
has  not  yet  been  ascertained.  Whenever  it  is  named  it 
is  almost  always  added  that  it  is  the  native  region  of  the 
£at?ui^-8tone,  a  precious  substance  not  yet  identified. 

Zamat.  The  pronunciation  of  this  name  is  quite 
uncertain.  Perhaps  it  should  be  read  zakur,  and  may 
come  from  Heb.  iTO,  candidus,  nitens.  This,  on  the 
supposition  that  it  was  a  white  stone.    But  Hawlinson 


590 


THB    ANNALS   OF    ESARHADDON. 


thinks  it  was  lapis  lazuli.  Oa  the  other  hand,  if  the 
true  pronunciation  is  zamat,  it  may  have  been  a  kind 
of  jasper  stone,  which  is  called  in  Heb.  J^BU^^,  Gr. 
latnriB- :  but  in  Arabic,  with  a  slight  change  of  the  la- 
bial, noVy^  yashmat,  yazmat,  which  is  not  very  remote 
from  zamat.  However,  nothing  certain  is  yet  known 
about  it. 


(which,  among  the  kings  my 

fathers,  none  ever  trod 
the  soil  of  th^r  conntry), 
Sireparna  and  Epama, 
chiefs  of  fortified  cities, 
who  had  oot  bowed  down  to 

my  yoke, 

tfaemselves    and  their  peo[de 

and  their  horses  trained  to  dnw 

chariots; 

their  oxen,  sheep,  moles,  ud 

dromedaries, 

and  much  spoil,  I  carried  offto 

Assyria. 

Ikhittzu,  or  ikbutsu,  from  Heb.  D33,  pedibus  cai- 
cavit. 

Uduriy  elsewhere  called  utturaty  appear  to  be  drome- 
daries ;  Pers.  ustur. 


1 1 .  sha  as  sarin  abi-ya  nin  la 
ikbutzn 

1 2.  kiti  mat-sun. 

1 3.  Sirep-parna,  Epama, 

14.  Beli  iri  dannuti, 

15.  sha  la  iknusu  ana  niri 

1 6.  shaasun  adi  nisi-sun  karra 
rukubi-sun, 

17.  ga,  tsieni nduri, 

1 8.  shallat-zun  kabitta  ashlula 
ana  Ashur-ki. 


19.  Uppits  bel-ir  sha  ir  Par- 
takka, 

20.  Zanaean  bel-ir  sha  ir  Par- 
ratka, 

21.  Ramatiya  bel-ir  sha  ir  Ur- 
aka-zabarna, 

22.  mati   Madaya  sha  ashar- 
sun  ruku, 

23.  sha  aB  kutsi   sarin  abi-ya 
kiti  Ashur 

24.  la  ibbulkitnnu,  la  ikbutzu 
ebgar-sha 


Uppits,  city-chief  of  the  city 
Partakka, 

Zanasan,  city-chief  of  the  city 
Paratka, 

Ramatiya,  city-chief  of  the  city 
Uraka-zabarna, 

Median  cities  whose  sltcatioo 
is  remote, 

who  in  the  times  of  the  kingi 
my  fathers,  the  land  of  Assyria 

never  traversed,  nor  ever  trod 
upon  its  soil 


THB    ANNALS   OF    BSAKHADDON. 


591 


25.  bulnkhut  rarabi  Ashar  bel- 
ja  iskhntsu  suouti, 

26.  karniski  rabi,  zamat  khib 
mat-su, 

27.  ana  Ninua  ir  bellati-ya 

28.  iasonu,  weoasaika  nir-ya. 


(for  now  tbe  dreadful  terror  of 
Asbar  my  lord  bad  strack  tbem), 

noble  stallioua  and  precious 
zamat  stones,  the  pride  of  their 
country, 

onto  Nineveh,  my  royal  city, 

they  brought,  and  kissed  my 
yoke. 


Kutsi.  Heb.  nsp,  finis;  Chald.  n3p:  Dan.  iv.  31, 
CttV  nsp^,  in  fine  dierum. 

As  kutsi  means  here,  *  in  termino '  (vitse),  during  the 
lifetime.     The  phrase  occurs  frequently. 

Ibbulkitunu,  they  traversed ;  from  a  quadriliteral 
root,  balkat,  transire,  which  seems  peculiar  to  the  As- 
syriaa  language.  It  has  also  a  t  conjugation,  as  atta- 
balkat,  '  I  passed  by,'  preeterivi. 

Khib,  deliciEe.  Syr.  tQin,  amor,  dilectio.  Root  2n, 
amare. 


29.  Assn  bieli  irt  sbakaat  itka 
sunati, 

30.  Bellati  wetsallo, 

31.  erisu  inni  ikm. 

32.  Sutrish-ya  nisi  nam  .... 

33.  aba  padi  mati-auo, 

34.  itti-sun  wemabini. 

35.  Nisi  asibat  in  sbatunu 

36.  ikbutsn,  wesbaknis-aa 
nirussuD. 


Then  the  chiefs  of  certfun  re- 

yolted  cities  assembled  tbemselveB 

together, 

and  supplicated  my  Majesty, 
and  cried  to  me  most  earnestly. 
My  officers,  men  of  distinction 
belonging  to  those  cities, 
I  commissioned  to  go  along 

with  them. 

The  inhabitants  of  those  cities 
they  thoroughly  subdued,  and 

compelled  tbem  to  bow  down  to 

their  yoke. 


Shakautf  'inastate  of  revolt,*  'seduced,'  'led  astray:' 
participle  from  Heb.  skaga,  Ttysy  (Ges.  982), '  aberravit, 
peccavit,'  etc.,  which  is  nearly  the  same  as  XW,  '  erra- 
vit,  deliquit,'  and,  as  a  participle,  '  seductus.' 

VOL.  VII.  2  R 


592 


THE    ANNALS    OF    BSARHADOON. 


Itku,  '  they  assembled,'  third  person  plural.  Ath, 
'  I  assembled,'  is  the  first  person  singular  of  same  verb, 
It  occurs  frequently. 

E-ri'$u.  was  pronounced  erish,  as  appears  from  otber 
passages,  It  is  an  adverb,  meaning '  eagerly '  or  'ps 
sionately.'  It  appears  to  be  derived  from  Heb.  mn, 
arsit  (Ges.  367),  saepe  signiticat  'exarsit  irS.'  (N.B. 
The  Latin  ira  may  have  some  ancient  connection  with 
this  Semitic  verb  rtlJl.)  We  also  find  in  Chald.  NIH 
exarsit,  incensus  fuit,  iratus  full,  doluit,  wgrfe  tutit, 
and  the  substantive  "nn,  ardor,  ksy  indignatio.  Tk 
general  sense  of  the  passage  is  ascertained  by  compa 
ring  it  with  a  passage  in  Botta,  pi.  151,  last  line,  where 
a  rebellious  king  comes  to  implore  mercy  of  Sargon. 

Wetsalla  annima,  he  besought  me  ;,  erisk  anni  ikre. 
earnestly  be  cried  to  me.  If  the  two  passages  are 
placed  in  comparison,  the  parallelism  of  the  sense  will 
be  manifest : — 

Sargon:  wetsalla  annima,  erish  anni  ikru. 

Esarhaddon :  belluti  wetsalla,  erisu  inoi  ikru. 

Ikru,  they  cried  j  from  Heb.  Mlp,  kara,  to  cry  or 
call  aloud. 

Sutrish.  This  very  common  word,  meaning  always 
the  king's  officers  or  lieutenants,  should  perbap  be 
read  sutrin.  It  is  the  Heb.  *ii:\y,  scriba ;  ypa/i^Tw, 
dein  magistratus,  pr^fectus  popuU.  The  mtrim,  0*^131?. 
were  the  magistrates  of  the  people  of  Israel  in  Egrpl, 
in  the  desert,  and  in  Palestine.  In  Proverbs  vi.  iod 
2  Chron.  xxvl.  they  are  officers  of  a  still  higher  ra^t 
(Ges.  997). 

Pddi.     See  line  10  of  this  column. 

Jkhutsu,  they  crushed  them,  they  trampled  out  tfic 
rebellion  ;  Heb.  Dl^,  pedibus  calcavit. 


THE    ANNALS    OP   BSARHADDON.  593 

Nirttssun,  '  to  their  yokes,'  viz.  those  of  the  chiefs, 
their  former  rulers.  Sun  being  destitute  of  accent,  the 
accent  fails  on  the  last  syllable  of  mm. 

37.  Tiknn  mandata  beUuti-ya  A  fixed  tribute  to  my  Majesty, 
matti  uma  hakin  tsiru-soD.  measured    equably.    I    imposed 

upon  them. 

Matti  uma,  with  a  measurement  that  was  equal,  si- 
milar, or  uniform.  This  is  said  in  praise  of  the  king's 
justice. 

Mat.    Heb.  ID,  mensura.     Uma  or  umma,  similis. 

Line  38  in  one  copy  commences  a  new  paragraph, 
vhich  is  evidently  the  proper  arrangement,  the  subject 
being  quite  dissimilar  from  the  preceding. 

38.  Valtn  Ashnr,  Shemeah,  After  that  Ashnr,  the  Son.  Bel, 
Bel,  n  Nabiu,  and  Nebo. 

39.  lahtar  sba  Ninua,  Isbtar  Ishtar  of  Nineveh  and  lahtar 
aha  Arbi],  of  Arbela, 

40.  eli  nakiri'Va  as  liti  over  my  enemies,  by  victories, 

41.  weshazitznni      mamitaa,  had     established     firmly     my 
omala  libbi-ya.  power,  I  fulfilled  my  heart's  de- 
sire. 

42.  As  Idahitti  nakiri  matluti  Out   of  the  spoils  of  foreign 

kingdoms 

43.  sha  as  tuzirtl  ili  rabi  bieli-  which  by  the  help  of  the  great 
ya,  gods  my  lords 

44.  ilcsuda  kata-ya,  my  bands  had  seized, 

43.  ishrat   makhazi    sha   mat  ten  large  temples  in  Assyria 
Ashnr, 

46.  a  Akkadi  weshapisha ;  and  in  Mesopotamia  I  erected  ; 

47.  kaspakhurassawezakharu,  with  silver  and  gold  ladomed 

them, 

48.  wenammir  kima  tami.  and  I  made  them  as  brilliant  as 

the  Sun. 

Most  of  the  words  in  this  section  are  of  common 
occurrence. 

2  r2 


594  THE   ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

Mamitsu  is  the  Heb.  D''3DMTD,  mamitsim,  vires,  fe- 
cultates,  opes  (Ges.  539). 

Matluf  appears  to  be  a  Chald.  form  hr<D  of  the 
Heb.  TC?D,  imperium,  dominatio,  regnum,  etc. 

Tuzirti,  help ;  a  verbal  substantive,  from  the  Heb. 
"Ity,  auxilium  dare. 

Iksuda  should  perhaps  be  construed  as  a  passive, 
'  had  been  seized  by  my  hands.'  This  verb  is  very 
common. 

Ishrat.    Heb.  m^V^  ishrat,  decern. 

The  verb  in  line  47  should  perhaps  be  read  weea- 
kharu,  if  we  may  suppose  the  last  sign  but  one  to  be 
erroneously  given,  Heb.  "ITO,  candidus,  nitens ;  or  it 
may  be  wezahin,  a  verb  which  signifies  *  to  adoni  a 
temple,'  in  the  Phillips  cylinder  (Col.  I.  33). 

49.  As  tami  su  bit-rabu  aarti  Id  those  days  the  royal  palace 

50.  eha  kireb  Ninaa,  in  the  middle  of  Nineveh 

51.  sha  sarin  alikut  makhri  which  the  kings,  my  fothen 
abi-ya  who  went  before  tne, 

52.  weshapishu  ana  sutishur  erected  for  the  accommodatioa 
kilil,  of  troops, 

53.  pakadi  karniski,  susi,  and  for  the  ctire  (or  safe  keep- 

ing) of  stallions  and  inaref, 

54.  rakabi  belli  bunuti  takhazi,         and  cars  (or  waggons)  able  lo 

carry  implements  of  war, 

55.  n  ehallat  nakiri  gimir  bu-  {and /or  Ike  sa/e  custody  of)  t^e 
taken                                                       foreign  spoils  and  all  manner  of 

precious  objects 

56.  sha  Afihur  sar  iUm  which  Ashur,  king  of  the  ^ds 

57.  ana  ishki  sarti-ya  iBhruka,         had  given    abundantly  to  my 

royal  arms. 


Kilil,  troops ;  here  probably  the  usual  garrison 
Nineveh.  The  word  seems  to  be  the  Heb.  "TTI,  ex 
citus. 

Bel,  in  line  54,  means  '  able '  or  *  capable.'    Here  a 


of 
exer- 


THE    ANNALS    OF    ESAaUADDON.  595 

fractured  portion  of  the  cylinder  intervenes,  which  pro- 
bably mentioned  that  this  palace  was  gone  to  decay, 
and  that  the  king  had  resolved  to  rebuild  it. 

Colwnn  V. 

3.  malthu  masikltu  weshassi         A  moltitude  of  captives  I  com- 
sUDUti  pelled 

3.  ilbiau  libidi.  to  make  bricks. 

As  in  Egypt,  so  in  Assyria,  the  captives  taken  in 
war  wwe  generally  employed  in  laborious  works. 

Musikku.  The  first  sign  appears  to  be  erroneously 
given  in  the  lithograph.  I  derive  the  word  from  Heb. 
ptn,  to  bind  strongly.  It  occurs  frequently  in  the  in- 
scriptions. 

4.  Haikal  turra  saatu  That  old  palace 

5.  aoa  sikhirti-aha  aggaru..  I  pulled  down  the  whole  of  it. 

Turra.  I  think  this  adjective  may  be  derived  from 
Heb.  "m,  dury  saeculum  ;  it  will  therefore  signify  8<pcu- 
laris,  or  extremely  old. 

6.  Ebgaru  mahidu  kireb  A  vast  quantity  of  earth  id 
kastim                                                baskets. 

7.  valta  libbi  asibut  abratu,  I  removed  from  its  former  place, 

8.  eli-sha  weraddi;  and  heaped  that  upon  it  (i.e. 

upon  the  site  of  the  old  palace) ; 

9.  as  pili  mati  daunl  and  with  stones  of  vast  size 
10.  tala  usmalli.  I    finished    the    work   of    its 

moand. 

This  account  of  the  rebuilding  of  the  palace  is  too 
concise  to  be  easily  intelligible.  1  may  therefore  refer 
to  the  fuller  account  given  of  a  similar  work  in  one  of 
Sennacherib's  inscriptions.  See  '  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society,'  vol.  xix.  p.  167. 


596  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

Ebgaru.    The  syllable  ga  is  defaced  on  the  cylinder. 

Kireb  kastim.  I  have  restored  this  passage  from 
Sennacherib's  inscription,  for  the  text  is  erroneously 
given  in  the  lithograph. 

Kastim,  some  kind  of  vessels,  or  perhaps  baskets. 
Heb.  kast,  rop,  a  vessel  (Ges.  896).  Compare  also 
TWp  (Ges.  908). 

Asibut,  places.  Other  inscriptions  have  ushalli, 
which  seems  to  mean  'low  places,*  from  Ttt^n. 

Mati,  size.     Heb.  *TD,  mensura. 

Usmalli,  may  be  the  sha  conjugation  of  mala,  VCTG, 
to  complete  or  fulfil ;  but  more  probably  that  of  amal, 
Vay>  laboravit. 

11.  Atki  XXII  sarin  Kbati,  I  assembled  twenty-two  kings 

of  the  Syrian  nations, 

12.  shaakfai  parti  a  kabal  parti  those  of  the  seacoast,aad  tbur 
kali-sun,  of  the  islands,  all  of  them, 

13.  Weoiabir  fiunuti.  and  I  passed  them  in  reriew. 

Khati.  We  here  see  that  this  name  included  both 
the  Phoenicians  of  the  seacoast  (including  the  Syrians 
of  the  interior)  and  also  the  inhabitants  of  Cyprus,  who 
must  therefore  have  spoken  a  dialect  of  the  same  lan- 
guage. This  throws  much  light  upon  the  Tin  of  Scrip- 
ture {vulgo  Chittim).  The  cuneiform  sign,  which  is 
the  first  syllable  of  Khati,  is  generally  used  for  pa; 
the  value  kha  is  borrowed  from  the  Median  or  Scythic 
alphabet. 

We  now  come  to  a  long  list  of  presents  brought  by 
these  kings  to  their  supreme  monarch. 

14.  gushurrimrabim.timitsiri,  Precious  woods  in  lai^  beam!, 

15.  its  abimi,  its ,  its         ebony-wood,  cedar-wood,  aod 

shurnish,  sburDJab-wood, 

Iti.  valtu   kireb  Sirara,    Leb-         from  Sirar  and  Lebanon, 
nuiia, 


TUB    ANNALS    OF    ESARIIADDON.  597 

17.  shal  ili  danni^  Bhallat-  also  pictures  of  the  great  gods; 

zazati.  and    sculptures  to  be  fixed  ap 

against  walls. 

Abimi  may  be  for  abini,  or  ebony. 

Cedar-wood  has  a  peculiar  symbol,  of  which  the 
pronunciation  is  as  yet  uncertain. 

Shal  appears  to  signify  a  picture ;  from  Heb.  hs, 
*  imago,  umbra,'  which  is  probably  the  original  root  of 
U72,  a  statue  or  image. 

Shalat  zazati  appear  to  have  been  sculptures  or 
images  fixed  up  against  a  wall,  and  therefore  what  we 
call  bas-reliefs.  Great  numbers  of  these  are  in  the 
British  Museum. 

Zazati,  Gxed  up;  from  Heb.  tj^  and  wy,  azojE,  of  which 
verb  the  Assyrians  seem  to  have  possessed  several 
other  forms.  When  the  king  commands  a  tablet  or 
decree  to  be  Jixed  up  for  public  inspection,  he  almost 
always  uses  the  verb  weshaziz,  "  I  commanded  to  fix 
it,"  or  *'  I  had  it  fixed  up."  When  Sennacherib  was' 
in  the  mountains  of  Nypdr  he  caused  his  workmen 
to  quarry  the  finest  white  alabaster,  and  carve  it  into 
shallat  zazati,  probably  bas-reliefs  representing  his 
triumphs. 

18 ilu,  agavri,  Statues  of  the  gods,  carved  in 

stone ; 

19.  sha  itshir  rabi,  albutar,  slabs  of  granite  and  alabaster; 

20.  kumina,  Icumina  tardu,  (names  of  stones.) 

21.  belgii^hak,  alishdu;  (ditto.) 

22.  tak  gina  khiliba,  vaitu  various  kinds  of  stone,  from 
kireb  karshani  the  forests 

23.  asbar  iiabniti-sun,  of  the  land  of  their  birth, 

24.  ana  khisbakti  haikal-ya,  for  the  adornment  of  my  pa- 

lace, 

25.  marsish  paskish  with  danger  and  difficulty 


598  THE    ANNALS   OP   B9ARUADDON. 

26.  ana  Ninua  weBhaldidnni,  uoto    Ninereb    they  brought 

along  witb  them. 

Before  ilu  in  line  1 8  is  the  symbol  for  **  stone." 
Tbey  were  therefore  **  stone  gods,"  i.  e.  statues. 

Agavri,  elsewhere  agurri,  are  slabs  of  any  material 
good  for  building.  Six  or  seven  kinds  of  stone  are 
here  enumerated  ;  most  of  them  are  as  yet  uncertain. 

Gina  is  elsewhere  used  in  the  sense  of  "  kind  "  or 
"  species."  It  is  sometimes  written  du,  but  that  syl- 
lable bad  for  its  second  value,  gina,  as  in  the  name  of 
the  king  Sar-du,  t.  e.  Sar-gina,  and  the  country  of 
Beth  Ya-du  for  Beth  Ya-kina. 

In  the  Annals  (sheet  10,  line  penultimate)  we  read: 
— '*  I  planted  trees  by  the  side  of  the  canal;  the  best 
kinds  {gina)  I  reserved  for  Ashur,  my  lord." 

Khiliba,  various,  may  be  compared  with  Chaldee 
fptl,  varius ;  so  also  in  Arabic  (Schindl.  586). 

Karskani  usually  means  forests,  but  here  it  is  better 
to  translate  "  wild  country  "  or  "  hills." 

Khishak  appears  to  be  the  Chald.  rTO?n,  aptum  fuit, 
commodum  fuit ;  and  as  a  substantive,  usus,  utilitas. 
See  Col.  VI.  46. 

Mnrsbihpaskish,  two  adverbs  derived  from  adjectives, 
both  in  very  common  use. 

Marsu  or  marsut  is  the  usual  epithet  of  a  hill,  aad 
means  "  steep  "  or  "  difficult." 

Paskut  has  much  the  same  meaning,  and  may  be 
rendered  "lofty"  or  "arduous." 

Weshaldiduni ;  third  plural.  When  the  king  him- 
self causes  a  weighty  load  to  be  brought  to  Nineveb, 
he  says,  in  the  first  singular,  ana  Ninua  weshaldai 
This  verb  appears  to  me  to  be  the  ska  conjugation  ol* 
radad,  replacing  r  by  /. 


THB    ANNALS   OF    BSARHADDON.  599 

Hadad  in  Arabic  signifies  '  movit,  volvit,  rettulit* 
(Sch.  1698). 

The  otiier  cylinder  makes  a  very  important  addition 
to  this  s^tion,  which  treats  of  the  visit  of  the  twenty- 
two  kings.  It  will  be  considered  hereafter.  It  will 
be  observed  that  the  visit  of  the  kings  interrupts  the 
account  of  the  building  of  the  palace;  it  was,  no  doubt, 
introduced  in  the  wrong  place  by  the  original  scribe. 

37.  As  arki  Shaga,  (iom  suiau)  In   the  tnoDth  Sbaga,  on  the 

belgari,  day  named  belgari, 

28.  eli  tali  aaata  upon  that  mound 

29.  bit-rebi  rabhatl  magnificeot  buildings 

30.  ana  mUhip  belluti-ya  for  the  residence  of  my  piajeaty 

31.  abtani  tairusaa.  I  built  apon  it. 

"  Upon  that  mound."  These  words  refer  us  back  to 
line  1 0,  where  the  king  says  he  constructed  this  mound, 
or  tala.  Line  27  must  have  followed  next  after  line  10 
originally. 

Abtani  is  the  t  conjugation  of  abni,  I  built ;  Heb. 
ni^.     Perhaps  abtani  meant  "  I  began  to  build." 

32.  BitdaanifthaXCy( )         A  great  building  of  ninety-five 

rebti  buda  measures  in  length 

33.  XXXI  (..-.)  rebti  om-  and  thirty-one  measarea  in 
ma.  breadth, 

34.  sha  as  sarin  aUkut  makhri  which  among  the  kings,  my 
abi-ya  fathers  who  went  before  me, 

35.  nin  la  ebusu,  anaku  ebus  :  none  had  ever  made,  I  con- 

structed ; 

In  line  32  I  read  the  numeral  as  ninety-five,  for  I 
consider  that  a  single  vertical  wedge  means  either 
one,  sixty,  or  the  square  of  sixty,  according  to  circum- 
stances. 

"  Measures."     The  word  hu,  or  ammat,  is  preceded 


600  THE    ANNALS   OP    RSARHADDON. 

by  a  peculiar  sign,  representing  one  line  as  cut  in  half 
bv  another.  Following  Dr.  Hincks,  I  translate  it  *'  a 
half." 

Rebti,  1.  e.  **  in  size"  or  *•  in  length." 

Nin.  This  seems  a  very  clear  example  of  the  use 
in  Assyrian  of  an  Indo-Germanic  root.  English,  none, 
no  one.  German,  nein.  Latin,  non  and  ne.  Greek  j^ 
(in  vr}fiepr7}9,  etc.). 

36.  gusburri  (....)  tsiruti  with  beams  of  lofty  cedar-trees 

37.  wesbatriza  eli-sba  I  constructed  its  roof; 

38.  ik  (.  .  .  .)  its  sbumish,  &ba  and  to  its  (....)  made  of 
erits-sin  khiga,  sharnisb-wood.whosesawoplanki 

are  excellent, 

39.  mitsir  kaspa  u  takabar  we-  I  fastened  omatneDta  of  nlver 
rakkush  and  bronze 

40.  werottah  babat-sha.  and  I  affixed  them  to  the  gites. 

Ik  seems  to  be  only  the  Jirst  syllable  of  some  word. 
These  ik  are  very  frequently  mentioned,  but  I  am  un- 
able to  say  what  they  were. 

S/m  erits-sin  khiga  means  "  whose  en(5  are  good," 
but  the  meaning  of  the  word  is  doubtful.  Perhaps 
it  is  the  word  given  by  Schindler,  p.  1396,  y^;?,  '  scis- 
sura,  fissara,'  and  implies  that  the  shurnish-vrood  was 
pecuUarly  well  adapted  for  being  sawn  into  planks. 

Mitsir,  from  Chald.  and  Syr.  T'S,  tsir,  '  effinxit. 
formavit,'  and  more  especially  '  pinxit,  acupinxit,  etc.;' 
in  short,  it  meant  generally  *'  to  ornament  beautifully 
with  some  pattern."  Hence  Chald.  T2T2,  mitsir,  "  co- 
vered with  figures,"  or  "adorned  with  a  pattern.'' 
Also  substantive,  T'S,  imago  (Schindl.  1540). 

Werakkush.  In  this  word  I  read  the  second  syl- 
lable as  rak,  which  value  occurs  on  a  tablet  in  the 
British  Museum  ;  and  likewise  in  the  Annals  (sheet  6, 
hne  103),  one  copy  has  shal .  tzuti,  which  the  other 


THE    ANNALS   OP   ESARHADDON.  601 

explains  by  ra.ka.  izuti.  I  would  compare  this  verb 
with  the  Heb.  D31,  to  fasten,  and  suppose  it  may 
mean  that  the  mitsir^  or  ornaments  of  silver  and 
bronze,  were  fastened  on  the  wood,  or  inlaid  into  it. 

Werattah^  I  would  derive  from  the  Heb.  pni,  ra- 
takh,  ligavit,  vinctus  fuit,  etc.  (Sch.  1776).  I  suppose 
it  to  mean  that  these  ornamental  beams  of  wood  were 
fastened  to  the  gates,  thereby  making  them  very  hand- 
some. Perhaps,  however,  it  would  be  better  to  trans- 
late werattah,  "  I  set  them  up  "  at  the  gates. 

Babat-ska,  the  gates  of  it,  i.  e.  of  the  palace. 

41 Sacred  bulls  carved  in  Btone, 

42.  sha  kipi  aikni.enn,  which  conceal  a  divine  presence, 

43.  tssti-Bin  wetarru,  I  placed  beside  the  gates. 

Whenever  these  bulls  are  mentioned,  the  expres- 
sions used  become  mysterious  or  symboHcal,  and  1  am 
unable  to  offer  a  certain  transcription  of  the  cuneiform 
signs  employed  in  line  41.  But  I  will  revert  to  the 
subject  later,  and  in  the  meanwhile  observe  that  per- 
haps the  line  mentions  the  sacred  lions  also.  These 
symbolic  animals  were  objects  of  the  highest  venera- 
tion, as  being  supposed  to  be  inhabited  by  the  Divine 
Spirit,  though  outwardly  forms  of  stone. 

Kipi.     Heb.  i^n,  khipah,  to  conceal,  or  to  veil. 

Sikni.  Chaid.  wa-'^t?,  habitatio  (scil.  Dei) :  et  inde  Dei 
prsesentia,  divinitas  ipsa,  et  spiritus  sanctus  in  prophetis 
habitans.  (Schindler  1857.)  Simitar  to  this  was  the 
superstitious  awe  entertained  for  certain  stones — a  kind 
of  magnets — called  Batylia,  that  is  to  say,  Beth-El, 
habitation  of  God ;  because  a  spirit  was  supposed  to 
dwell  in  theni  and  cause  their  wonderful  movements. 

Tsati.     Heb.  13,  tsad,  latus. 


602  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

Wetarru.     Heb.  yiy,  edar  or  adar,  disposuit,  ordi- 
navit. 

44.  Natairu  kipsi,  ma&ballimu         guardians  of  the  treaaare,  pre- 

flervera 

45.  tallakti  sari  bani-snn  :  of  the  reveane,  of  the  kingwho 

coDstructed  them : 

46.  (....)  weshaahbit  every  one  of  them  I  located 

47.  Bisa-sbiD.  in  their  plsce. 

If  the  palace  had  four  gates,  there  must  have  been 
eight  of  these  bulls  at  least,  therefore  the  expression 
"  every  one  of  them  *'  is  suitable.  They  were  sup- 
posed to  stand  as  guardians  at  the  gates  over  the 
king's  wealth.  This  is  something  like  other  ancient 
Buperstitions ;  Gryphons  were  supposed  to  guard  bid- 
den treasures. 

Natsiru.     Heb.  natsir,  "ilfS,  custodivit. 

Tallakti,  probably  a  verbal  substantive  from  Heb. 
alal;  "pTy,  ire,  venire.  In  Greek,  trpoaohos  is  the  public 
revenue  (but  originally  meant  only  a  going  or  coming). 
So  Latin,  reditus,  proventus ;  and  English,  income,  re- 
turns. 

The  first  sign  in  line  46  appears  to  mean  "  every," 
for  it  occurs  in  that  sense.  Col.  VI.  46. 

48.  Haikal  pill  u  (.  .  .  .)  This  palace  of  stone  and  cednr- 

wood 

49.  mati  muduti  of  immense  size 

50.  ana  sutahuti  belluti-ya  for  the  [residence  ?]  of  my  ma- 

jesty 

51.  naklish  weshapish.  splendidly  I  dnished. 

Mati.     Heb.  "TO,  mensura. 

The  syllable  lish  in  naklish  is  by  error  made  su  in 
the  lithograph. 

52.  Shal  ili  danni  eri  mashaat!         Sculptures  of  the  great  gods, 

made  of  bronze  painted  (or  var- 
nished) 


THE    ANNALB    OF    ESABHADDON.  603 

53.  shaakhi  iimapaoaaar(ki)         on  both  eidee,  and  before  and 

behind, 

54.  in  atda-8u   kilatan  klreb-         in  the  (cloaed  epartments  ?)  of 
sha  [valbit].  its  interior,  I  constructed. 

Mashaati.  From  m^O,  to  anoint,  to  paint.  See 
Schindl.  p.  1044.  Statues  were  varnished  and  some- 
times anointed  anciently.  This  account  of  painted 
sculptures  representing  the  gods  occurs  again  in  the 
inscription  in  the  British  Museum  volume,  pi.  44,  80, 
with  the  verb  valint  at  the  end.  Schindter,  p.  1044, 
has  rtC?D,  pinxit ;  rttt?DD,  pictura. 

AkM  or  akha,  a  side.  Akha  anna,  this  side.  Alcha 
uUut/a,  the  other  side.  A^hi  inna,  on  both  sides. 
(Such,  at  least,  I  believe  to  be  the  meaning  of  the 
last  phrase.) 

ValMt.  This  word  is  effaced,  but  the  commence- 
ment of  it  remains  visible. 


Column  VI. 

1.  (.  .  .  .)  tsiniti  Cornices(?)ofloftycedarwood 

2.  its  abimi,  kulul  babat-sm  and  ebony  (?)  wood,  on  the  top 
ebit.  of  the  gates  I  made. 

The  second  sign  of  line  1  is  effaced ;  I  suppose  it 
should  be  ik. 

Kulul,  the  summit.  Chald.  h'h^,  summitas,  co- 
rona. Schindler,  p.  861,  has  collected  many  examples. 

Babat.  Perhaps  the  doors  of  the  interior  apartments. 

3.  Sikhirti  hfukal  shatu.  The  whole  of  that  pakce, 

4.  nibikbu  pashka  sha  ka,  with  lofty  nibi/di  of  ivory  and 
z&tnat  lapis  lazuli 

5.  wesbapishu,  wesbalma  kili-  I  finished,  and  I  completed  its 
■11.  kiti. 


604  THE   ANNALS   OF    BSARHADDON. 

Kill.     These  may  be  the  same   as   beth  kUi,  the 
closed  apartments,  or  harem. 

Weskalma  is  properly,  I  made  safe  or  secure. 

6.  Tsillalat  ^gu  klntH  (....)  With  flat  roofs  like  (-..-) 

7.  weshaskir  gimir  babni.  I  covered  all  the  apartmeDtS' 

Bahni,  I  take  to  be  '  apartments  *  and  not  '  gates.' 
Tsillulat,  tzululi,  etc.,  often  occur  in  the  sense  of 
the  roof  of  a  building,  from  Heb.  73,  772,  umbra. 

Gigu  is  exactly  the  Heb.  niJ,  giga.  See  Ges.  195. 
He  says,  "  tectum  domus,  idque  in  Oriente  planum." 
(Josh.  ii.  6  ;  1  Sam.  ix.  25 ;  Proverbs  xxi.  9  ;  etc.)  It 
was  the  flat  roof  on  which  the  inmates  of  the  palace 
were  accustomed  to  sit  in  the  cool  of  the  evening. 
Elsewhere  the  king  says  he  built  a  low  building,  after 
the  fashion  of  Syria.  This  tallies  well  with  the  pre- 
sent mention  of  the_^i  roof. 

8.  Sikkat  kaspa  ebbi,  u  takabar  With  ornameDts  of  pure  siirtr 
namri  and  shiniDg  copper 

9.  werattali  kircb-(9ha).  1  adorned  the  interior. 

Ebbi,  from  efc,  totus.  Argentura  integrum,  ».  e.pu- 
rum. 

Weratiah.  See  Col.  V.  40.  pm,  to  fasten.  "I 
hung  the  walls  of  tlie  interior  apartments  with  shining 
ornaments." 

Sikkat,  imagery.  Heb.  rP3Ty,  imago,  species  (Ges. 
902).  The  root  is  Chal.  NDtt?  or  M3D,  aspexit.  Hence 
maskit,  n''3\!WD,  imago,  6gura  (Ges.  623),  which  word 
is  especially  applied  to  inner  apartments  with  figured 
walls,  which  were  therefore  called  n''3tjn3  ^TTI,  "coa- 
clavia  iraaginum,"  i.  e.  "quorum  parietes  figuris  idcf- 
lorum  depictis  ornati  erant''  (Ges.).     These  chambers, 


THE    ANNALS   OF    ESASHADDOM.  605 

described  by  Ezekiel,  probably  resembled  those  of 
Esarbaddon's  palace  mentioned  in  line  8. 

At  the  end  of  line  9  the  word  sha  is  eifaced  on  the 
cylinder. 

In  line  2,  ebU  should  perhaps  be  read  emit.  It  may 
be  the  Heb.  TDm,  'statuit,  constituit,'  Hiph.  of  TDy, 
stetit;  which  verb  is  used  in  architecture,  e.g.  T1D3?, 
columna. 

10.  Danan  Aahnr  bel-ra.  The  glory  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 

11.  8ba  H8  mati  nakrati  with  which  in  the  lands  of  his 

eaemies 

12.  ilubusn,  he  clothed  himself, 

13.  (....)  in  kharrakati  etziba  ditplayed  (?)  in  bas-reliefs,  I 
kireb-sha.  sculptured  within  it. 

Danan  is  probably  '  glory,'  from  dan,  great. 

Nakrati  is  feminine  to  agree  with  mati.  From  na- 
kra,  *  a  foreigner/  and  generally  '  an  enemy.'  Heb.  133, 
alienus,  peregrinus. 

Iluhusu.  Heb,  "tt^lT,  to  clothe;  metaphorically,  in 
Ezekiel,  "induit  terrorem."  Compare  also  this  pas- 
sage from  the  Psalms,  '*  splendorem  ac  majestatem  in- 
duisti,"  Jlt?3S. 

Karrakuti,  or  -duii.  Heb.  lO'in,  sculpsit ;  in  Greek, 
XapoK;  xapaa-,  x^^par-. 

Etziba.  Heb.  33^,  '  formavit,  finxit,'  and  as  a  sub- 
stantive, '  simulacrum.'  One  stroke  has  been  lost 
from  the  syllable  ba  in  the  lithographed  text, 

14.  Shari  tsirnti  takut  mati  With  lofty  «Aar  trees,  cut  down 
Kbamano,  in  the  land  of  Khamana, 

15.  sha  kala  shimdi  u  itzidi  which  all  joiners    and  wood- 

cutters 

16.  kharni-BQ,  itakha-sha  emit.         like  best,  I  erected  its  porticoes. 

These  shar  or  khar  trees  are  very  frequently  men- 


606  TUB    ANNALS   OF   ESARHADDON. 

tioned.  The  next  si^,  nudck  or  tsivy  does  not  appear 
to  me  to  be  part  of  the  name,  but  an  adjective  expres- 
sive of  excellence  or  loftiness. 

Takut,  felled  or  cut  down.  This  is  a  participle  fix>iii 
the  Syriac  verb  nnn,  dejecttts  ftdt.  This  root  occurs 
very  frequently  in  Hebrew,  with  the  general  sense  of 
down,  downwards,  low,  humble,  inferior,  etc.  etc. 

Khamanu.     Heb.  pD^n,  Mount  Hermon. 

Shin^di,  joiners ;  from  Heb.  "TO^,  to  join  together. 

Itzidi,  woodcutters ;  from  Heb.  T3y,  etzid,  to  cot 
down  with  an  axe.  Gresenius,  p.  787,  says,  "  securi 
cecidit." 

In  these  two  words  we  have  examples  of  a  cunei- 
form sign  which  frequently  occurs,  whose  value  is  di. 
I  do  not  find  it  anywhere  in  the  published  lists ;  it  is 
compounded  of  two  signs  resembling  those  used  for 
khi  and  ha. 

Kharru;  they  love,  they  prefer.  Heb.  1,7',  carus 
fuit. 

Itakha.  Heb.  p^HM,  which  Gesenius,  p.  117,  ren- 
ders "genus  quoddam  columnarum,  wepumJXov,  por- 
tion m." 

Emit.     See  the  note  on  Col.  VI.  2. 

17.  Kishalla-sha  ma-rab  urab-  Its  treasure  rooms  I  much  eO' 
bi ;  Jar^d ; 

18.  tallakta-sba  mahatish  urap-  its  coursing  grounds  I  greatly 
pish  extended 

19.  ana  masuk  kurra  kireb-sha.  for  the  ezercieing  of    horses 

within  it. 

This  palace,  or  great  central  establishment,  com- 
prised gardens  and  fields  withiii  its  limits. 

I  know  not  what  the  syllable  ma  means  prefixed  to 
rab,  unless  the  group  stands  for  mati-rabi,  "  in  a  great 


THB    ANNALS    OF    ESARUADDON.  607 

proportion  ;"  Heb.  "TO,  mensura.  But  perhaps  the  text 
is  uncertain. 

Talla^at  *  courses/  from  Heb.  "TTTT,  *ire,  proficisci/ 
and  as  a  substantive  *  via.'  I  may  here  remark  that 
in  Coi.  V.  44,  mushallimu  tallakti  sari  bani  sun  ought 
to  have  been  translated  "  who  make  safe  the  paths  of 
the  king  their  constructor,"  i.  e.  g;uardians  of  his  life. 

Masukj  properly  a  gentle  running  or  exercising. 
Heb.  p12^.  masuJCt  discursitatio.  See  Gesenius,  p.  632. 
The  root  is  pifQ>,  '  discursitavit,'  which  loses  one  letter 
in  the  future,  pttT. 

20.  Pattu  ushaflbar-ainina,  Streams  of  water  I  conducted 

together, 
SI.  Bsbabibt  tappish.  and  I  filled  tbem  excellently. 

The  general  sense  of  this  clause  may  be  given,  but 
some  words  are  obscure. 

Pattu  is  used  in  other  passages  for  '  waterworks  *  or 
*  aqueducts.'  Thus,  after  giving  an  account  of  a  great 
work  of  this  kind,  the  king  says,  *'  I  called  its  name 
the  patti  of  Sennacherib."  And  such  waterworks  are 
elsewhere  called  ami  pattati.  The  root  may  be  patah, 
nro,  to  open. 

In  line  50  of  Bellino's  cylinder,  the  word  ashur 
signifies  "I  conducted,"  viz.  a  stream  of  water.  This 
verb  seems  to  be  the  Heb.  "Ttt^M,  asker,  '  duxit/  which 
verb  is  used  in  a  good  sense,  so  that  "  duxit  feliciter  " 
may  be  generally  understood.     See  Ges,  p.  109. 

Usfiashar,  "  I  caused  to  be  led,"  seems  to  be  the  ska 
or  causative  conjugation  of  this  verb.  "  I  gave  orders 
to  dig  these  streams  or  conduits." 

Ushabiba  may  be  one  of  the  forms  of  the  root  3D'tt> 
"  full;"  it  would  then  mean  "  I  filled."   After  this  word 

VOL.  VII.  2  s 


608  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON. 

we  find  the  monosyllable  a,  which  sonietimes  meaos 
*  water,'  but  whether  it  does  so  here  I  cannot  say. 

Tappish  may  mean  *  excellently,'  from  31D,  bene. 
On  comparing  the  parallel  passage  in  BelUno's  cylinder, 
line  6 1 ,  we  find  a  remarkable  various  reading — usha- 
hiba  pattish. 

22.  Haikal  aaata  valta  vaseU  That  palace  from  its  foanda- 
aha  tiona 

23.  adi  galubi-sha  to  its  roof 

24.  artzib  luhaklilu.  Lulie  I  bailt  up  and  I  finished.  And 
Dmalli  I  made  lulie 

23.  ab  rab  meahbab-ya.  for  the  great  Senators  of  mj 

CouQcil. 

The  lulie  were  perhaps  rows  of  circular  seats ;  from 
Heb.  Q'hht  scalae  cochleatee. 

Umalli.     Heb.  TDS^t  laboravit. 

Abrab,  written  short  for  abim  rabim,  great  fathers  or 
noble  senators.  These  abim  may  be  compared  with 
the  Patres  Conscripti  of  the  Romans;  they  are  fre- 
quently mentioned  in  Sargou's  inscriptions.  Compare 
senatus,  yepovaia,  assembly  of  elders. 

Meshbab,  a  council;  properly,  sitting  in  a  circle; 
sometimes  a  family  council.  The  root  is  Heb.  72Z, 
shabab,  to  surround.  Gesenius,  p.  701,  says  "cinxit, 
circumdedit."  Persons  surrounding  a  man  are  called 
his  D'^TSD.  In  the  cuneiform  writing  meshbab  is 
written — mesh  .  eb .  eb. 

26.   Haikal    paltidat    kala  mu 
ashkura  nihit-tsa. 

PaHdat,  protection,  care,  custody. 
Heb.  pakad,  ~:pDt  curam  gerere ;  and  as  a  substan- 
tive, TMi^'D,  cura,  custodia  (Gcs.  p.  83(j). 


THE    ANNALS   OF   ESARHAODON.  609 

Ma,  name,  denomioation.     Pakidat  kala  mu,  pro- 
tecting care  of  every  kind. 

27.  Ashor,  Isbtar  sha  Ninua,         Aebur,  Isbtar  of  Niseveh,  and 
ilim  Asfaur-ki  the  gods  of  Assyria  ^ 

28.  kali-suD,  as  girbi-sha  ak-         all  of   them,  in  its  chapels  I 
riba.  worshipped. 

29.  (....)  urrikhti  ebbuti  Victims  of  rare  pcTfectton 

30.  makbar-eun  akki :  I  sacrificed  to  their  divioities : 

31.  uwekhira  katraya  

32.  ila  shatanu    aekun  libbi-         and  I  did  for  those  deities  ac> 
sun.  cording  to  their  wish. 

Ebbuti,  perfection  ;  or,  as  an  adjective,  *  perfect.* 
Makhar   often    seems  to  mean  '  divinity.'      Some 
connection  with  the  Greek  /uura^  suggests  itself. 
Compare  fuueapea  $eoi  atev  eovrey. 
Line  31,  the  meaning  is  doubtful. 
Lib,  the  heart ;  also,  '  the  heart's  desire,' 

33.  Iktar  rahu  aarroti,  I  assembled  together  the  great 

men  of  my  empire, 

34.  rabi  a  nisi  mat-ya  kali-        the  noblemen   and   the  corn- 
son  moners  of  my  land,  al!  of  them, 

35.  as  tazirti  u  kirieti,  [to  aid  me  (?)]  with  tbeir  help 

and  their  foresight, 

36.  as  itz  .  .  .  .  tasilati  and  their  well-weighed  coun- 

sels; 

37.  Idreb-sha  ushasihu ;  within  the  palace  I  caused  them 

to  sit 


38.  nshalim  nupar-suo.- 


Iktar,  I  assembled ;  properly  "  I  surrounded  my- 
self with."  From  the  root  iro,  kitar,  cinxit,  circum- 
dedit. 

Tazirti,  help  ;  verbal  substantive  from  Heb.  ezer, 
yty,  to  help. 

Kirieti,  foresight,  caution,  knowledge  (Schind.  548). 

2  s  2 


610  THE    ANNALS    OF    BSARHADDON. 

Chald.  "Virr,  prospexit,  cavit,  cognovit.  The  first  sub- 
stantive in  line  36  seems  to  be  some  form  of  the  Heb. 
nay,  consilium. 

Tasilati,  well-weighed ;  from  Heb.  rnD,  «iaA,  to 
weigh. 

I  cannot  explain  line  38,  unless  by  the  following 
supposition.  Perhaps  the  king  says  that  he  only  ad- 
mitted to  his  councils  those  of  his  subjects  who  were 
exalted  or  conspicuous  {tasilati,  from  770,  exaltavit) 
for  their  usefulness,  perspicacity  (or  forethought),  and 
wise  counsels  ;  but  that  on  the  other  hand  he  excluded 
the  foolish. 

As  an  example  of  the  verb  77D  in  the  sense  of 'ex- 
altavit,' the  following  is  very  apposite,  rnDTD,  f^fl* 
laudihus  sapientiam.     See  Ges.  p.  715. 

Now  with  respect  to  my  version  of  the  other  clause, 
ushaliza  nupar-sun,  '*  I  excluded  the  foolish,"  it  is  to 
some  extent  borne  out  by  the  Hebrew,  for  ySn  signi- 
fies 'separavit,  removit,'  and  is  particularly  used  of  re- 
moving some  men  from  a  company  of  others  (Schindl. 
588)  ;  and  nupar  answers  to  7113,  a  foolish  man.  Ge- 
senius,  p.  642,  says  "  722,  stultus,  vel  impius,  neqnam." 
By  the  way,  the  Latins  seem  to  have  taken  their  word 
nebulo  from  712,  probably  from  hearing  their  Syrian 
slaves  use  that  term  of  contempt  towards  each  other. 
We  may  therefore  render  wsAa^isa  tiupar-sun,  "extrusi 
sive  ejeci  improbos  eorum."  It  may  add  a  trifle  to 
the  evidence  to  remark  that  Nebuchadnezzar  also  de- 
clares, though  using  very  different  words,  that  evil- 
doers shall  not  enter  his  palace. 

39.  (....)  kurunnu,  sba  kira 
tsurra-sun 

40.  (....)  cH-sun  ushakin.  ns  .  .  .  .  I  established  over  them. 


THE    ANNALS   OP   BSARHADDON.  611 

This  obscure  passage  appears  to  relate  to  the  sacred 
bulls  of  stone  in  the  Hall  of  Assembly,  which  presided 
as  it  were  over  their  deliberations  and  sanctified  them. 
The  first  sign  in  line  39  implies  quadrupeds,  then  fol- 
lows kurunnu,  horned  ;  Heb.  yp.  The  next  sign,  partly 
effaced  on  the  cylinder,  should  doubtless  be  read  sha. 
The  word  Hra  is  also  injured  and  doubtful.  The 
meaning  of  the  passage  can  only  be  a  matter  of  conjec- 
ture. Perhaps  it  means  "whose  heads  alone  are  visible." 
We  may  suppose  some  such  architectural  arrangement 
in  the  Hall  of  Assembly.  Or  it  may  mean  "  whose 
height  is  very  conspicuous,  or  noble."  Heb.  "^in,  no- 
bilis.     But  the  true  sense  is  very  doubtful. 

Sha  kira  tsurra-sun.  Tsur  or  tsir  is  the  summit  of 
anything. 

Kira,  visible,  conspicuous.  Chald.  and  Syr.  *l^n, 
to  behold,  to  look  at.  Syr.  kTV^n,  a  thing  looked  at 
(Schindl.  549). 

The  beginning  of  line  40  is  equally  difficult.  It 
seems  to  read  nishaJt:  niguta ;  we  have  the  Chald.  'JDS, 
*  princeps '  (see  Schindl.  1 130),  and  Tl^,  negud,  '  anti- 
stes,'  or  high  priest. 

Eli-aun  uMn,  I  established  over  them,  is  a  very  com- 
mon phrase.  Here  we  have  eli-sun  ushoHn,  which  is 
merely  another  conjugation.  Hence  the  sense  may 
perhaps  be,  "I  established  over  them,  as  high-priests 
and  rulers,  these  sacred  bulls."  Perhaps,  if  a  better 
copy  of  the  inscription  were  to  be  discovered,  these 
difficulties  would  disappear. 

41.  As  kibit  Ashur  sar  ilim,  u         By  the  will  of  A»hur,  king  of 
ilim  Aehur-ki  the  gods,  and  the  gods  of  As- 
syria 

42.  kati-Eun,  as  thup  ammati,  all  of  them,  with  full  ass^m- 
khut  libbi,  Mies,  intelligent  minds, 


612  THE    ANNALB   OP   BSAKHADDON. 

43.  Damakhar  kabitti,  ehabie  much  hononr  and  abundant 
lattuti,  profit, 

44,  kireb-sha  darish  lutaesibu :        raay  they  ever  continoe  to  as- 

semble witbiD  it ! 
'  45.  losbaa  lala-sha.  (And  so)  may  the  glory  of  tbii 

palace  be  fiill ! 

Tliup  is  probably  Heb.  Its,  bonus. 

Ammati  may  be  the  Heb.  rTO^  and  noy,  from  US, 
populus,  multitude.  Arab.  Ttoy,  an  assembly,  a  syna- 
gogue. 

JChut,  quick,  sharp,  acute.  Chald.  Tin,  acut^  dixit 
(Schindl.  526,  535);  TH  and  TTTT,  *  acutus  fuit,'  used  of 
sharpening  the  intellect.  Arab.TTT,  'acutus'  and  'acies.' 
nn  al  sif,  the  sharp  edge  of  a  sword. 

Shabie.     Heb.  3D\I?,  abundans. 

Lattvti  appears  to  be  from  the  Heb.  root  "TT,  which 
occurs  so  frequently  in  the  inscriptions.  It  may  be 
compared  with  such  words  as  produce,  profit,  tokos. 

Lutassibu,  one  of  the  conjugations  of  Itt?"*,  *  to  be 
seated,'  with  the  optative  participle  lu  (would  that!) 
prefixed. 

Lusbaa,  may  it  be  full !  Root  yiM^,  satur  factus  est, 
satur  fuit. 

Lala-sha,  '  its  glory,'  viz.  that  of  the  palace. 

46.  as  ( )  kishakti  zir         For  every  kind  of  useful  work, 

kur  kamieki,  may  a  noble  race  of  horses, 

47.  susi,  ( ),  gammali,  mares,  beasts  of  burden,  and 

camels, 

48.  belli  hunut  takhazi  able  to  carry  the  implemeots  of 

war 
49-  gimir  kulil,  shellat  nakiri  of  a  whole  army,  (and  also  may) 

the  spofls  of  foreign  nations, 

50.  matti  uma,  la  naparkaya  in  an  equal  proportion,  and  that 

not  a  small  one, 

51.  lupkida  kireb-sha!  be  carefully  preserved  within  ii- 


.THE    ANNALS    OF    ESABHADDON.  613 

In  lioe  46  the  second  sign  means  '  every,'  as  appears 
by  comparison  with  Col.  V.  46.  I  believe  it  should 
be  read  zaku,  which  is  properly  '  united '  or  *  bound 
together.*    Chald.  prt. 

The  next  sign,  meaning  '  kind,*  occurs  jrequently. 

Kishakti,  written  ki.ish. ahak .ti.i,  means  *  utility.' 
Chald.  myn,  *commodum  fuit,'  etc.  (Schindl.  669.) 

Kur,  precious.    Root,  Heb.  1(T,  carus  fuit. 

In  line  47  the  sign  which  is  enclosed  in  a  paren- 
thesis means  '  servant,'  and  it  follows  the  sign  for 
•  quadruped ;'  I  have  therefore  translated  it  "  beasts  of 
burden." 

Belli,  able  to  carry;  literally,  *  masters  of;'  a  "He- 
braism. 

KulU,  an  army,  is  often  expressed  as  here  by  the 
signs  '  armed  man '  and  '  many.*  It  may  be  read  as 
kulilt  or  perhaps  ujnmanati. 

Matti,  Heb.  TD,  a  measure  or  proportion. 

Uma,  similis ;  we  may  either  translate  '  mensurft 
simili  *  or  '  mensur^  communi.*  Heb.  preposition  oy, 
cum,  and  as  an  adjective  'communis.'  Arab.  ^nV, 
ummi,  communis  (Schindler). 

Im  naparkaya.  Nebuchadnezzar  uses  this  phrase  in 
one  of  his  inscriptions,  where  he  says  that  he  adorned 
a  temple  with  no  stinted  hand.  It  seems  to  be  the 
Niph.  of  the  Heb.  "pD,  parak, '  comminuit,'  and  there- 
fore to  mean  properly  '  comminutus.' 

Lupkida,  may  they  be  carefully  protected!  This 
tense  of  the  verb  pakad,  ipD,  '  curam  gerere,*  is  inter- 
esting. We  see  that  this  great  building  was  very  pro- 
perly named  the  Pakidat,  curatrix,  or  conservatiix,  of 
all  manner  of  things  of  public  utility. 


i614  THE    ANNALS    OF    ESABHADDON. 

52.  Ab  kireb  haikal  sbatu  Within  this  palace 

53.  ( )  ki  il  dandua  niav  the  Sacred  Ball  ((.e.G^rred 

in  stooe), 

54.  nateir  kipsi  aarti^ya,  the  gaardiaa  of  the  wealth  of 

my  kingdom, 

55.  mukhada  kabittj-ya  the  giver  of  joy  to  my  great- 

ness. 

56.  darish  lifihtapru  decree  that.  For  ever 

57.  iptakhu  ida-sha!  its  duration  shall  lastl 

Line  53,  taken  not  from  the  text  but  from  the  mar- 
gin, denotes  the  Sacred  Bull.  It  is  obscure,  but  may 
perhaps  be  explained  thus : — The  first  sign  denotes  a 
quadruped ;  then  follows  ki  il  dandun,  like  the  Su- 
preme Deity.  The  Sacred  Bull  was  ia  fact  held  to  be 
emblematic  of  the  Deity. 

For  dandun  we  frequently  find  dandanni,  greatest 
of  the  great ;  derived  from  rfan,  great. 

Ki  is  the  Hebrew  particle  D,  ki,  which  is  used  in 
this  sense,  e.  g.  lyDtt^  3  IMDD,  his  throne  is  ki  shemesk, 
like  the  sun. 

Mukhadu,  Heb.  mn,  to  rejoice. 

Kabitti,  Heb.  113,  glory,  greatness. 

Darinh,  for  ever.    Heb.  TT,  dar,  sseculum. 

Lishtapru^  may  he  divinely  decree !  The  optative 
of  the  ishtnphel  conjugation  of  dabar,  m,  to  decree, 
as  a  divine  oracle  does.  Hence  in  Hebrew  l^n,  diibir, 
the  oracle  of  Jehovah,  or  the  holy  of  holies.  Also  12li 
an  oracle ;  and  mrP  in,  the  word  of  the  Lord. 
N.B.  The  first  syllable  of  lishtapru  is  erroneously 
printed  as  su  in  the  lithograph.  The  difl^erence  be- 
tween these  two  signs  is  very  small.  The  word  lish- 
tapru is  followed  by  the  syllable  ya;  but  judging  from 
the  text  as  given  by  Layard  in  the  first  series  of  British 
Museum  inscriptions  (58,  hne    12),  I  should  rather 


THB    ANNALS   OF    BSARHADDON.  615 

think  that  this  is  the  first  syllable  of  the  following 
word,  yaptakku. 

IptaJkhu  or  yaptakhu,  it  shall  extend ;  future  of  jio- 
tetkhj  nno,  expandere. 

Ida.  Heb.  my,  and  ly,  sevum,  aetas,  seecu- 
lum,  letemitas;  as  TT  "ni:!,  the  eternal  mountains; 
Ty  ^  071^7,  for  ever  and  ever. 

Ida-akay  seeculum  ejus,  duratio  ejus. 

I  will  take  this  occasion  to  remark  that  Mount 
Ida,  the  Phrygian  Olympus,  probably  meant  "  the 
Mountain  of  the  Eternals — the  AOavarM." 

58.  Ana  arkat  tami,  as  Barin  In  future  dayB,  under  the  king! 
bali>va,  my  Bons, 

59.  Bha  Aflfaar  u  Ishtar  ana  whom  Atihnr  and  Ishtar  to  role 
billot  mati  a  nisi  over  this  land  and  people 

60.  inambo  zigir-sa.  shall  name  thdr  names. 

That  is,  whom  the  gods  shall  call  to  rule  over  As- 
syria. The  notion  was,  that  their  names  were  audibly 
called  in  heaven  (probably  at  their  birth).  They  ruled 
therefore  by  divine  right.  We  read  in  Scripture  that 
the  Lord  called  Samuel  audibly  by  his  name  when  he 
appointed  him  to  be  a  prophet. 

61.  Enn  haikal  shaata  When  this  palace 

62.  ilabbim  inakfaa,  shall  grow  old  and  decay, 

BabbirUy  from  the  root  labor,  old ;  very  common  in 
Assyrian,  but  not  found,  I  think,  in  the  other  Semitic 
languages. 

63.  Ankhut-sa  luttish.  may  (some  one)  repair  its  inju- 

ries! 

Ankhut.  This  word  is  very  doubtful,  though  the 
passage  occurs  frequently.  It  may  come  from  Heb. 
anakf  TW,  to  injure ;  but  I  am  more  disposed  to  read 


616  .THB    ANNALS    OP    B8ARHADDON. 

Elakhutsa,  'its  injuries,'  from  the  Heb.  lakhata^  YTH, 
calami  tates. 

Tsa,  femiDiQe,  'of  it/  coalesces  with  th^  last  syllable 
of  lakhats. 

Luttisk,  may  he  restore !  Other  tenses  of  the*6ame 
verb  are  itttish,  I  restored ;  muttishy  the  restorer. 

64.  Ki  Bha  anaka  rausharu  In  lilce  manner  as  I  the  writing 
sidhir  written 

65.  enmu  eari  abi  bani-ya  itti  with  the  name  of  the  long  m^ 
mnshari  sidhir  sum-ya  fother,  along  with  the  writings 

written  with  my  own  name 

66.  ashlcnn,  uma  atta  kima  have  set  up,  so  do  Thou,  Hke 
yaati-u  myself, 

67.  musharu  sidhir  sum-ya  read  alond  the  writings  written 
akharu,  with  my  name, 

68.  (....)  busu,  vas  1u  (.  .  .)  erect  an  altar,  sacrifice  a  male 
ilcki,  victim, 

69.  itti  mushari  sidhir  eam-ka  and  set  them  op  along  with 
sukun  I  the  writings  written  with  thy  dwd 

name. 

70.  Ashur  u  Ishtar  So  Ashur  and  Ishtar 

71.  ikribi-ka  ishimmu.  shall  hear  thy  prayers! 

This  closing  passage  of  the  inscription  is  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  and  instructive  of  any,  for  the  syntax 
of  the  Assyrian  language.  The  king  addresses  bis 
successor,  as  in  several  other  inscriptions. 

Ki-ska,  in  like  manner  as. 

Musharu,  writings,  or  lines  of  writing  j  from  the 
root  shar,  related  to  the  Heb.  mtl^,  a  line,  a  row.  It 
will  be  observed  that  when  this  word  occurs  in  the 
accusative  case  it  is  written  musharu^  and  when  in  the 
oblique  case  mushari. 

Sidhir,  written.  This  is  from  the  same  root  as 
esthur,  I  wrote.     Heb.  itoU^,  scripsit. 


THE    ANNALS   OP    B8ARHADD0N.  617 

**A  name"  is  written  mu,  but  probably  pronounced 
sum,  as  in  Hebrew.  Afu  may  liave  been  the  proto- 
Chaldaean  word. 

Ably  patris ;  bani-ya,  genitoris  mei.  Abi  alone  is 
sometimes  vaguely  used  as  '  ancestor.' 

AsJthtn.     Heb.  ]211?,  collocavit. 

Uma,  similiter. 

Atta^  thou.     The  same  as  in  Hebrew. 

Yaati,  I  myself.  This  is  followed  by  u  (also).  The 
word  yaati  often  occurs,  and  is  evidently  compounded 
of  yo,  '  ego/  and  ati,  '  self,'  which  is  the  Heb.  jnM, 
avTot,  ipse,  '  self.'  The  Greek  avros  comes  so  near  in 
sound  as  to  appear  cognate  with  the  Hebrew.  A  great 
many  examples  are  given  by  Gesenius,  as  D3  PM,  vos 
ipsi.  Similarly,  su  compounded  with  HM  makes  suatu, 
guata  (ille  ipse),  which  word  occurs  continually  in  the 
inscriptions. 

Ai'haru,  imperative  of  khar,  *to  read.'  Heb.  Mnp, 
A-ara,  to  read  (Daniel  v.  8,  etc.). 

Line  68  commences  with  a  sign  which  signifies  a 
stone  attar. 

Bam,  'construct!'  imperative  of  the  verb  e&u«,  I 
constructed. 

Vas.    This  sign  is  often  employed  to  signify  a  male. 

A  victim  is  usually  denoted  by  lu  with  a  peculiar 
sign  following,  which  may  be  connected  with  did,  to 
slay.  Here  lu  seems  to  mean  *  animal,'  for  lutsieni  are 
sheep,  which  is  expressed  in  Hebrew  by  tsieni  alone, 

Ikki,  *  sacrifice  thou ! '  imperative  of  the  verb  of 
which  akki,  *  I  sacrificed '  (see  Col.  VI.  30),  is  the  indi- 
cative mood  ;  and  likh,  *  may  he  sacrifice,'  is  the  op- 
tative. But  the  first  syllable,  i^,  of  this  word  is  mis- 
printed in  the  lithograph. 


618  THB    ANNALS   OP    E8ABHADDON. 

Suhtn,  *  coUoca,  vel  statue !'  is  the  imperative  of  the 
verb  of  which  askuriy  '  I  fixed  up  *  (see  line  66),  is  the 
indicative  mood. 

Ikribi,  prayers.     See  Col.  VI.  28,  akriba,  I  prayed. 

ZsAtmmM,  *  they  shall  hear  1'  future  of  Heb.  3?D1P,  to 
hear. 


The  inscription  is  followed  by  a  single  line,  uocod- 
nected  with  the  rest,  which  reads  : — 

In  the  month  Ab,  day  the  18th. 

But  on  the  other  cylinder  it  reads : — • 

As  arki  ( )  limmi  Hatarel  bel-nam  ir  Lakhiri 

In  the  month  ( )  in  the  year  bearing  the  name  of 

Hatarel,  Prefect  of  the  city  of  Lakhiri. 

He  was  the  Eponymus  of  that  year. 

Hatarel,  '  he  who  honours  God,'  or '  is  honoured  by 
God.'  Heb.  "nn,  honour,  which  word  is  applied  to 
the  Deity  in  the  Psalms :  "  Thou  hast  clothed  thyself 
with  honour,"  "iin. 

Lakhiri.  This  city  is  often  mentioned  in  Sargon's 
inscriptions. 


I  will  here  add  a  few  emendations  which  occurred  to 
me  during  the  printing  of  these  sheets  : — 
Col.  I.  line  42  should  perhaps  be  read : — 

Sumi  ilim  rabim  ana  akhati  izkur  uma. 

And  translated : — 

The  names  of  the  great  gods  he  wrote  by  the  side  of  one 
another  and  all  together. 


THB    ANNALS    OF    E8ARHADDON.  619 

'    The  next  line  adds : — 

And  he  trusted  to  their  mysterious  power. 

We  may  suppose  that  he  wore  this  list  of  holy 
names  as  a  talisman  or  amulet  round  his  neck. 

I  find  from  the  Michaux  stone  (last  line,  Col.  I., 
which  speaks  of  writing  or  carving  the  names  of  the 
great  gods  on  a. memorial  stone),  that  the  verb  izkur  is 
employed  alone.  Now  here  it  is  followed  by  uma, 
which  therefore  has  an  independent  meaning ;  and  as 
wna  often  means  *  simul,'  I  have  adopted  that  meaning 
here.  The  Hebrew  dy,  '  simul,'  agrees  with  the  As- 
syrian. 

Iziur,  from  Heb.  "^t,  zakur,  memoravit,  recordatus 
est.  But  to  record  a  thing  tn  writing  is  much  the 
same  as  to  write  it,  and  therefore  1  think  izhtr  is 
simply  scripsit. 

Ana  akhati  means  *  by  the  side  of  one  another,'  as 
appears  from  an  ioscription  of  Ashurbanipal,  where 
he  relates  how  he  cut  off  the  heads  of  the  king  of  the 
Susians  and  his  little  son,  ana  akhati^  side  by  side. 
It  comes  from  akha^  *  the  side  of  anything,*  a  very 
common  word  in  Assyrian.  And  by  the  way,  this 
passage  of  Ashurbanipal  shows  by  analogy  that  Col.  I. 
line  51  of  the  present  inscription  means  that  E^ar- 
liaddon  cut  off  the  heads  of  the  two  kings  by  the  side 
(as  kishadi)  of  their  principal  chiefs. 

Line  48  is  perhaps  to  be  translated  Limi  tmnuz,  *  in 
that  same  year  ;*  assu  danan  Aahur  bel-ya,  '  I  devoted 
to  Ashur  my  Lord;'  nisi  zir^  *  these  enemies.*  Here 
zir  or  ziri  stands  for  the  usual  word  zairi,  *  enemies.' 
Heb.  It,  zity '  an  enemy.'  (Ges.  310.)  Or  perhaps  assu 
danan  Ashur  bel-ya,  means  '  I  made  a  triumph  unto 


620  THE    ANNALS    OP    ESARHADDON. 

Ashur  my  Lord/  or  'I  led  ia  triumph  before  him.* 
nisi  zir,  *  these  enemies.'  So  the  Egyptian  sculptures 
represent  the  Pharaohs  presenting  their  captives  to 
Amun. 

In  t^ol.  III.  line  31,  Kkatzu  is  perhaps  the  proper 
name  of  a  country,  and  the  rest  of  the  line  means 
'  which  is  the  country  which  produces  the  shaikilnam 
stone.'  This  seems  probable,  on  account  of  the  exact 
parallelism  of  Col.  IV.  line  10,  where  Bikoi  is  called 
*  the  country  which  produces  the  zamat  stone/ 

In  Col.  YI.  hne  13,  etziba  seems  not  to  be  the  verb 
DSV»  but  isn,  which  Gesenius,  p.  362,  renders  *to 
carve  stones.' 

In  Col.  V.  line  38,  I  translated  the  clause  sha  erits- 
sin  khiga,  "  whose  sawn  planks  are  excellent ;"  though 
I  was  very  doubtful  of  the  Hebrew  word  correspoading 
to  erits.  It  has  since  occurred  to  me  that  it  may  be 
rmM,  planks  of  cedar,  '*  cedrinum  tabulatum,  vel  con- 
tignatio  domorum  cedris  tectarum"  (Schindl.  118). 

In  Col.  V.  line  7,  for  asibut  read  alibut,  which  perhaps 
may  mean  loca  pingaia,  from  the  root  iTTI,  kaleb,  pin- 
guis.  Other  inscriptions  also  intimate  that  this  mound 
was  made  of  soft  fat  earth  removed  from  the  river 
banks ;  which,  indeed,  must  have  been  the  readiest 
mode  of  obtaining  a  sufficient  quantity  of  earth  for  so 
large  a  work  in  the  centre  of  a  populous  city.  With 
respect  to  the  root  37n,  '  pinguis,*  as  applied  to  earth, 
Gesenius  observes  that  Aleppo,  in  Greek  XaXv^tov,  was 
so  named  from  its  fertile  soil. 

In  Col.  V.  line  41,1  would  translate,  "  Sacred  bulls 
and  lions  made  of  stone."  Oppert  says  (p.  93)  that 
he  has  found  the  second  sign  explained  in  the  sylla- 
baries by  alapu,  bulls,  Ileb.  r)7N.     If  this  is  correct,  1 


THB    ANNALS    OF    ESARHADDON.  621 

would  propose  to  take  the  sixth  sign  with  the  value 
lab,  which  it  very  frequently  has,  for  instance  in  the  pre- 
sent inscription,  Col.  VI.  62,  in  the  word  ilabbiru,  "  it 
shall  grow  old."  Now  this  syllable  lab  in  the  Hebrew 
language  expressed  a  lion,  '^iT  or  N"*!?-  If  this  sup- 
position is  correct,  it  is  important,  as  giving  us  the  true 
name  of  the  lion  in  Assyrian.  Moreover  this  sign  (the 
sixth  in  the  line)  has  various  pronunciations  in  the 
cuneiform  system  of  writing,  such  as  dan,  lal,  etc.,  all 
of  which  have  the  same  meaning,  "  great "  or  "  power- 
ful." Hence  I  conclude  that  the  original  meaning  of 
labi,  ^7,  a  lion,  may  have  been  "  the  powerful  animal,'' 
just  as  he  is  called  by  us  '  the  king  of  beasts.' 

In  Col.  V.  line  17,  \i  shal  has  its  usual  meaning,  viz. 
•*  female,"  we  may  translate  "  lionesses." 

In  Col.  VI.  line  60,  we  have  inambu,  "  he  shall  call, 
or  name."  I  have  considered  this  verb  to  be  connected 
with  the  Indo-Germanic  root  nam,  a  name  ;  but  Oppert 
(page  317)  views  it  as  a  variation  of  the  Semitic  root 
t03,  which  doubles  the  middle  letter  and  reads  nahba. 
In  this  he  is  probably  right,  for  H3J  signifies  vi  divind 
locutus  est  (Ges.  636),  and  is  therefore  most  suitably 
employed  to  express  a  decree  pronounced  by  the  gods. 

In  Col.  III.  line  55,  Huta  simply  means  "  dwellings," 
as  appears  from  the  Tiglath  Pileser  inscription  (B.  M. 
plate  15,  line  34). 

In  Col.  VI.  line  36,  Tasilati  means  *'exalted."  The 
sense  is  fixed  by  the  passage  (B.  M.  pi.  15,  line  92), 
where  a  temple  of  the  gods  is  called  miship  tasUti-sun, 
the  dwelling  of  their  highnesses. 


.1 


623 


INDEX. 


Acropolis,  remarkable  torso  diacorored  in  the,  21. 

Actium,  the  promontorjr  of,  the  present  limit  of  Greek  territorj,  232. 

Adamnaii,  St.,  Bede,  Cedrenua,  and  Anns  Comnena,  cany  on  the  tradition  of 
St.  George  the  Martyr,  10&-111. 

^ginetan  Pediments  exhibit  same  contrasts  as  those  of  the  Parthenon,  27. 

Al-Merdj,  the  nte  of  the  ancient  Barca,  the  riral  in  arte  of  Cyrene,  406. 

Ammianus  Harcellinus,  his  acconnt  of  George,  the  Arian  Bishop  of  Alex- 
andria, 126. 

Andeira,  care  of,  discorered  bjr  F.  Oalrert,  Esq.,  39S. 

Anlaf  and  Earelok,  really  the  same  name,  91. 

Antilibanns,  to  be  identified  with  the  Oebel  e'  Sharif  or  eastern  range  of  Li- 
banns,  261. 

Antiquity,  miscclUneooB  objects  of,  discorered  by  Lieut.  Smith,  B.E.,  at  Cyroie, 
417^18. 

.ApoUo  CitharceduH,  disooTeiy  of  the  statue  of,  at  Cjnme,  410. 

■- — — ^  statue  of,  dispute  among  ArcIuEologista  as  to  ite  real  age, 

418-120. 

-,  temple  of,  list  of  objects  found  in  the  cclla  of,  and  adjacent 


to  it,  414-116. 
.Architecture,  no  specimens  of,  from  Carthage,  which  can  be  called  Phoenician, 

460. 
^res,  legendary  alliance  of,  with  the  daughter  of  Ceorops,  3. 
^Tgentile  and  Curan,  loves  of,  in  Wamer'a  Albion's  England,  79. 
^Artastic  value  of  the  collection  from  Cyrene,  remarks  on,  418-420. 
-Asshurbanipal,  names  in  inscription  of,  relating  to  Egypt,  illustrate  Greek  and 

Hebrew  orthography,  163. 

,  proceed  get^rophically  from  north  to  south,  167. 

JLtlianasius,  Archbishop  of  Alexandria,  his  throne  usurped  by  George,  the 

Arian  Bishop,  127. 
Athene,  of  Mr.  Falkener,  winged,  9. 
,  the  birth  of^  represented  according  to  Fausaniaa  on  the  cltief  front  of 

the  Parthenon,  6. 
VOL.  VII.  2    T 


624  INDEX. 

AtheDe,  l^endaiy  birth  of,  dutinotl;  demental,  11. 

— — — ,  view  of^  taken  by  late  Greek  writen,  such  u  Aiirtidee  and  FiocfaH,  li 

,  mask  q(,  preaerred  in  the  Elgin  Collection,  2fi. 

Augura,  coDBulted  hj  Sargoa  before  he  built  his  Palace  at  Ehoraabad,  176L 

Baal,  ths  oHginol  meaning  of,  in  Scripture,  2E>8. 
Boolbec,  considered  hj  some  identical  with  Baalath,  247. 

,  identified  by  some  with  Saal-Hennon,  254, 

cannot  be  identified  with  the  Baalgad  of  Joshua  xi.  17,  263, 

,  a  temple  ati  dedicated  to  the  Heliopolitan  Jupiter,  before  B.C.  11!, 

289. 

,  three  gigantic  atones  still  remaining  at.  291. 

,  the  great  temple  at,  called  "  the  Trilithon  Temple  of  Baal "  from  iU 

three  great  stones,  292. 

-,  the  second  temple  at,  nearly  one-fourth  smaller  than  the  great  dim. 


293. 
Babylonia  and  Egypt,  ample  proof  of  connection  between,  in  very  early  tbws, 

143. 
Barth,  M.,  supposes,  but  absurdly,  that  the  Byrsa  was  in  part  on  artifidal  de- 

vation,  466. 
Battus  takes  a  Dorian  colony  from  Thera  to  Cyrene,  401. 
BelibuB,  placed  on  the  throne  of  Babylon  by  Sennaoherib  in  hia  flnt  yev, 

163. 
Beowulf,  the  poem  of,  Anglo-Saxon  rather  than  Old  English  or  Anglo-Sor 

man,  81. 
Beul^,  M.,  shows  that  the  restored  temple  of  .^Isculapius  wms  of  the  Corinthiu 

order,  408. 
,  dug  through  Amb,  Byzantine,  Tandal,  and  Boman  remains,  ere  ht 

reached  the  true  Carthage,  471. 

-,  sank  hia  ahait  through  fifty-six  feet  of  debris  ere  he  reached  thf 


actual  Byrsa,  471. 

,  probably  lighted  on  the  part  of  Carthage  destroyed  by  Scipio,  472- 

,  met  witli,  around  the  walls  of  the  presumed  Byrsa,  a  bed  of  cinden 

etc.,  four  feet  thick,  472. 
Birch,  Dr.,  "  Observations  on  the  newly-discoTercd  fragments  of  the  Ststi^tiMl 

Tablet  of  Kamak,"  50-70. 
Black  Sea,  names  of  rivers  fiowing  into,  638-539. 
Bollaci^,  Mr.,  observations  on  the  "  Popol  Vuh,"  or  National  History  of  Gin's" 

malo,  42H40. 
Borsippa,  famous  for  the  tower  of  the  Seven  Planets,  now  the  Birs  Kinmid, 

352. 
BrBBsenr  do  Bourbourg,  Abbe,  account  of  the  "  Popol  Vub,"  423— i24. 
Birds,  rare,  sent  by  tributary  chiefs  to  the  Kings  of  Egypt,  65. 

■ ,  sent  by  Cnndace  to  Alexander,  and  by  Alexander  to  Aristotle,  66. 

BroaiUide,  curious,  relating  to  the  death  of  Charles  II.,  now  in  the  BriM*" 

Museum,  337. 
Broodsted,  Prof.,  vieiv  proposed  by  him,  founded  on  an  Etruscan  minor,  G. 


INDEX.  625 

Brondsted,  Prof^  desigQ  of,  adopted  b;  Prof.  Gflrhard,  and  rqeoted  bj  Prof. 

Cockerall,7. 
Bionzc^  the  diacoreiy  of  rtatuei  or  heads  in,  of  very  rare  oooorreoce,  415. 
B jrraa,  detenniiuttioii  of  tb«  site  of,  b;  M.  BeaU,  461. 

,  poiition  o^  euily  reoognUed  by  any  one  who  Barveye  the  ground,  466. 

Byna,  probably  now  repreiented  by  the  hUl  of  St.  Louis,  467. 

■■■■■     ,  chambers'- in  presumed  wall  of,  constructed  tile  bomb-proof  bastions, 

473. 

Cjbbab's  Commentaries,  names  of  Oermans  or  Gauls  mentioned  in,  689-641. 

Oalah,  the  city  which  DiTsnurish  built,  164. 

Carrey,  M^  sketch  by,  in  1683,  exhibito  the  heads  of  Clotho  and  Atropos  still 

remaining,  29. 
Carthage,  original  city  of,  on  an  irregular  lozenge-shaped  tiaot  of  land,  448. 
■■■    -,  excarations  at,  conducted  by  M,  Beul^,  464. 
,  probable  origin  of  the  name,  466. 
,  the  walls  o£,  destroyed  to  build  cathedrals  and  palaces  in  Italy, 

469. 
Cecropidn,  Atliene  made  good  her  claim  to  tlie  chief  worship  of  the,  1. 
Cecrops,  the  fiunDj  of,  retained  in  an  undivided  group,  4. 
Celts,  the  existence  of,  as  a  notion  in  the  fifth  century  B.C.,  well  established, 

489. 
Charles  II.,  death  of,  Tariously  related  by  Burnet,  Lingard,  etc,  836. 

v.,  Tisit  of,  to  England,  208. 

,  account  of  his  reception  in  England,  formerly  preserved  in  Castle 

of  Amhras,  in  the  ^rol,  217. 
,  the  author  of  accounts  of  bis  Tisit  to  England,  an  eye-witneas,  per- 
haps a  herald,  2l7. 
Cinyrads,  the  name  given  to  the  priests  of  Tenus  in  Cyprus,  383. 
Citium,  insoriptions  from,  in  Fococke's  Travels,  381. 
Clarendon,  the  Earl  of^  aids  Mr.  Davis  very  much  in  his  researches  at  Carthage, 

442. 
Cohiaghi,  D.  E.,  "Jonmalof  Tour  in  Acamanio,"  etc.,  219-246. 
,  "  On  ancient  Buins  in  the  Neighbourhood  of  Blissolonghi," 

&42-561. 
Comet,  visible  for  seven  doya  after  the  murder  of  Julius  Cesar,  316. 
Conlach  and  Cnchidlin,  poem  of,  compared  with  the  German  poem  of  Hilde- 

bmnd  and  Hathubrand,  475. 
Constantine  X.  (Monomachns),  erects  a  moaaaterj  in  the  name  of  the  Holy 

Martyr  George,  114, 
Crimea,  names  of  capes,  mountains,  rivers,  etc.,  533-638. 
Crowe,  Mr.,  late  Britisb  Tioe-Consul,  Ben-Ghazi,  assists  Lieut.  Smith  in  his 

preparations,  405. 
CucUio,  Cypriote  inscription  on  a  stone  from,  376. 
Cuneiform,  no  sculptured  document  relating  to  any  fbrdgn  conquest  eariier 

than  the  twelfth  centuiy  b.o.,  138. 
Cylinder,  valuable  clay,  in  possession  of  Sir  Thomas  Fhillipps,  Bart.,  341. 


626  INDEX. 

Cfiieticutti  Littiu,  of  Festus  AriennB,  represented  at  picMirii  bj  the  dutzietcf 

Cuiet,492. 
Cyrene,  recent  eicvntioaa  at,  S99HL20. 

,  admirable  Bituation  and  early  hiatory  ot,  401. 

— ,  aacicnt  ooina  of,  show  a  high  degree  of  art,  402. 

,  the  itaple  trade  of,  was  the  Narthex  or  Aaaafcetida  pUnt,  402. 

— —  ■  ,  the  birthplace  of  many  eminent  men,  as  Ariatippua,  Cameadea,  CUli- 

machuB,  and  Syneaiiu,  403. 

-,  ruiuB  of,  risited  in  recent  times  b;  Delia  Oella,  Facho,  Beechej,  Buth, 


and  othem,  404. 

,  description  of  the  lite  of,  by  lient.  Smith,  407. 

,  excavation  of  the  temple  near  the  Fountain  of  Apcdlo,  410. 

,  relief  of  the  nymph  strangling  a  lion,  found  at,  412. 
• ,  nearly  two  hundred  ©hjects,  nuMt  of  them  statues  or  statuettM,  di»- 

covered  at,  416. 

Datib,  Mr.,  BQCceasfiil  excavationa  by,  at  Carthage,  141-476. 

,  resided  long  in  the  Fashalik  of  Tunis,  442. 

Delphi,  tbo  traditions  and  womhlpa  of  Apollo  and  Dionysus  strangely  blnided 

at,  14. 
Dido,  the  first  idea  of  her  palace,  that  it  was  the  higheet  spot  within  the  nSk, 

467. 
Dionysus  and  the  Hyades  on  the  western  front  contrasted  with  the  Apollo  snd 

Muses  of  the  eastern,  14. 
— ~,  for  the  position  of,  in  Elgin  frieze,  compare  that  on  the  frieze  of  the 

choragic  monument  of  Lysicrates,  36. 
Divinities),  triad  of  (probably  the  Horai),  in  south-cast  angle  of  Farthenon 

answer  to  the  Moirai,  or  Fates,  in  the  north-cast,  31. 

Eaoi.£,  peculiar  representation  of  the,  in  sculpture  at  Baalbec  and  PalmTii, 
300. 

Echinus,  nuns  of,  according  to  Colonel  Leake,  230. 

Egj'pt,  arms  of,  penetrate  uito  Asia  in  the  eighteenth,  nineteenth,  and  tventietii 
dyiiastica,  n.c.  1500-1200,  37. 

— — ,  in  B.C.  712-711,  smU  to  have  been  under  Ethiopian  yoke,  149. 

,  potty  kings  still  llourisli  in,  as  late  as  B.C.  700,  154. 

-,  portions  of  the  annrtls  of  ABshiir-bani-pal  relate  to,  159-163. 

E]>iplianius,  St.,  distinctly  states  that  George,  the  Ariau  Sishop,  did  not  s'oSft 
martyrdom,  123. 

Erichlliouius,  the  nursohng  of  the  Cecropid  Virgins,  4, 

' ,  in  the  Elgin  room,  painfully  posed,  5. 

Esar-Haddon  succeeded  his  father  Seimaclierib  in  B.C.  680,  157. 

,  cylinders  of,  recently  found,  relate  only  to  his  early  wsTi,  157- 

Euripides,  the  sou  of,  represented  before  the  Delphic  t^-mple  at  early  morn- 
ing, 14. 

Eusebius  Biieaks  of  the  martyrdom  of  "  Holy  George,"  108. 


INDEX.  627 

**  Faibvaz  of  7*  gift  of  Capt.  W  Bradfbrd,"  oa  flnt  page  of  a  BIS.  in  Bojal 

Idbruy,  Stat^rt,  201. 
Fdlowfl's  Ljdan  inacriptioiu,  peculiar  letters  in,  879. 
Figures,  scale  o^  on  Fartlienon,  increased  towards  the  centre  of  tlie  oomposi* 

tion,  8. 
Fountaine,  Andrew,  Esq.,  cimons  MS.  volume  belonging  to,  338. 

G-AHAi,  land  o^  probably  Qtxa,  58. 

Qnuthier  de  Metz,  composes  a  poem  in  French  about  the  jest  1247,  203. 

George,  St.,  cburch  o^  at  Chalcedon,  built  hj  the  Fatriarch  Sergius,  116. 

,  legend  of  his  appearance  to  aid  the  Crusaders  in  flieir  battles,  119. 

,  churches  at  Rome,  Thetford,  Oiford,  etc.,  dedicated  to,  121-122. 

,  becomes,  after  the  first  Crosade,  the  titulw  saint  and  patron  of 

EagUnd,  123. 

'  ,  admitted  into  the  Roman  calendar  by  Pope  Gelasius  in  a.d.  497, 


120. 

,  Arian  Bishop  of  Alexandria,  his  &te,  etc.,  124. 
',  St.,  of  Cappadocia,  and  Geoi^e,  the  Arian  Bishop  of  Alexsndria,  pro- 


bable explanation  of  the  confusion  between,  132-134. 
Goulette,  La,  the  modem  part  o^  probably  represente  the  ancient  pent  Cothoa, 

444. 
Oraham,  Mr.  Cyril,  announces  the  disoorcty  of  a  new  list  of  prisoners  of 

Thothmee  III.,  at  Eamalc,  68. 
Gregory,  St.,  and  St.  Eptphanius,  speak  of  George,  the  Arian  Bishop,  in  their 

respectiTe  works,  128-129. 
Grimsby,  traditions  at,  of  BATelok  and  Grim  the  fisherman,  74. 

,  the  legend  of,  partly  given  in  Norman  French,  86. 

-  — had  probably  two  names,  Orimsby  in  Danish,  Gormanstdn  or  Gor- 

mansted  in  Anglo-Saxon,  104. 
Grisona,  canton  of,  the  dialect  of  lamoges  sdll  used  in,  498. 
Guatemala  covered  with  almost  undescribed  ruins,  421. 
Gyflo  Castro  and  Petro  Vouni,  ruins  of,  on  the  spurs  of  Mount  Zygos,  244. 
,  suspected  by  Colonel  Leake  to  be  those  of  Old  Pleumm,  244. 

Havath,  the  same  as  the  later  Greek  Fpiphania,  271. 
Havelok  the  Dane,  the  same  name  as  the  Higelao  of  Beowulf  72. 

,  French  and  English  poems  about,  not  older  than  the  time 

of  Henry  II.,  88. 

-,  story  of,  gives  an  earlier  date  for  the  Korse  invasions  uf 


the  South  than  previously  suspected,  103. 
Eeliopolis,  or  On,  in  Egypt,  obelisk  still  standing  at,  324. 
Helps,  Ur.,  gives  In  his  '  Spanish  Conquest  of  America,'  the  best  account  of  the 

ancient  history  of  Guatemala,  427. 
,  mentions  Dr.  Scherzer's  publication  of  Ximenes'  Spanish  MSS. 

from  the  Quich6,  428. 
UophecstuB,  torso  o^  discovered  in  the  Acropolis,  21. 


628  INDEX. 

Henclea,  in  the  guiae  of  Diony bub,  holdi  Baocfaic  (^nthitt  on  the  ocnni  rf  &» 
ton&,S6. 

Herbert  of  Cherbuiy,  Lord,  Life  of  Hemy  Til.  by,  givea  &  good  acconnl  d 
Ch&rles  T.'a  visit  to  England,  218. 

Eermon,  Mount,  probabl;  the  atune  u  the  present  Gebel  e'  Sheikh,  S61. 

fieeiod,  physical  and  meteph^BJcal  perBoniflcatiouB  in,  hare  somewhat  of  the  lii 
of  veritable  archaumB,  12. 

Hejlin,  Dr.  Feter,  vrrites  a  book  on  St.  Qeorge  of  Cappadocaa,  106. 

Uigelak,  probably  the  SwediBh  form  of  Havelok,  100. 

Hogg,  Mr.,  "  Supplemental  Notes  on  St.  George  the  iiaxtyr  and  on  Oeotje  the 
Arian  Bishop,"  106-136. 

,  "  On  the  Supposed  Soriptnral  Names  of  Baalboc,  etc.,"  247-3S4 

'  ,  "  On  Some  Inscriptions  from  pypnis,  copied  hj  Commands  Lei- 
cester, B.N.,"  376-393. 

Horai,  proportions  of  the  seated,  verf  peculiar,  83. 

House  excavated  by  Mr.  Davis  at  Carthage,  description  o^  Mi,  445. 

Ibis,  the  messenger,  identiSed  on  the  Parthenon  by  her  scar^  or  peplos,  31. 

JUPITB&,  chief  sanctuary  of.  at  Salamia  in  Cyprus,  387. 
Justinian  erects  a  church  to  St.  Oeorge,  a.d.  630,  114. 

Eabnak,  statistical  tablet  of,  on  a  amaJl  temple  erected  at  that  place  to  oom- 

memorato  the  victories  of  Thothmes  III.,  50. 
— ■  I     —  ...     I  ,  firat  pubhshed  by  Dr.  Young  from  copy  made  by  Sr 

Gardner  Wilkinson,  51. 

,  tablet  from,  more  completely  published  by  M.  Lepsius,  51. 

-,  the  ends  of  thirty-five  lines,  published  by  M.  Mariette,  5!. 


Elion<abad,  described  in  Sargon'a  Auuob  as  situate  above  Nineveh,  at  the  f<Ml 
of  the  mountains  of  Muzur,  151. 

Lachesis,  peculiar  action  of,  in  the  group  of  the  Fates  on  the  Fartheooit,  29. 
Latham,  Dr.,  "  On  Havelolt  the  Dane,"  71-105. 

,  "  On  the  Combat  belwcou  Coiilach  and  Cuchullin,"  474-181. 

Lcigliton-Buzzurd,  traditional  origin  of  the  name  of  this  place,  77. 
Le3ce8tor,  Commander,  B.N.,  important  inscription  relating  to  I'tolemy  Philo- 

mct«r,  foimd  by,  in  Cyprus,  388. 
LiiiiniTft,  ruins  of  tlie  ancient  city  of,  227. 
Lisniorc,  Dean  of,   book  attributed  to,  contains  rahiablc  fragments  of  Old 

Gaelic,  47 1. 
Lloyd,  Mr.  W.,  "The  Eastern  Pediments  of  the  Parthenon,"  H9. 
,  proposes  to  put  AUiene  in  the  centre  of  her  own  pediment  on 

the  I'urllienou,  20. 
Lnjnes,  Due  dc,  Cypriote  alphabet  constructed  by,  380. 
Lysuiiias,  the  tetrarch,  probably  the  son  and  successor  of  Ptolemy  Mcon*^ 

276. 


INDEX.  629 

Hacbobits,  dncription  of  nm-wonhip  by,  823. 

Madden,  Sir  Fredmio,  poem  of  H&velok  the  Dane,  ndnumblj  edited  b^,  71. 

Uvkham,  Mr.,  in  Iii>  '  Cuzoo  and  Lima '  gives  much  of  the  drama  of  OUanta 
in  English,  425. 

Manra,  Santa,  this  name  belong*  only  to  Qie  modem  fortress  of  the  uicient 
Leocas,  283. 

Mauricius,  the  Emperor,  boilds  an  oratory  in  memory  of  St.  George,  114. 

Hoirai,  identified  aa  the  triple  goddeaeea  of  the  northern  angle  of  the  Par- 
thenon, S8. 

Mooconys  Baltahasar,  fimt  noticed,  in  a.d.  1847,  one  of  the  great  inscriptions 
at  Baalbec,  285. 

Mosaic,  specimens  ol^  procured  by  Mr.  Daris  at  Carthage,  of  excellent  work- 
manship, 447. 

,  beautiful  specimen  &om  Carthage,  presented  hj  Hudson  Qumey,  Esq., 

to  British  Museum,  452. 

Mosaics  not  in  use  at  Borne  before  the  time  of  Sylla,  446. 

— ,  description  of  those,  sent  by  Mr.  Daris  from  Carthage  and  Utica, 

446-452. 

Mugheir,  temple  of  the  Moon  at,  rebnilt  by  NebuchadneEzar,  and,  snbsequently, 
repaired  by  Nabonidus,  362. 

Muaeum,  British,  restoration  of  the  Parthenon  proposed  in  publication  o^  Ia 
be  condemned,  8. 

Muzur,  different  applications  of  this  name  in  the  Assyrian  annals,  144-147. 

Naboitisos,  inscription  of^  on  cylinder  from  Mugbeir,  139. 

Haharum,  not,  as  used  to  be  assumed,  Mesopotamia,  but  rather  a  hill  country, 

139. 
Names,  monosyllabic,  existing  in  the  Eastern  Pyrenees,  484-186. 

— ;,  of  placee  in  the  Woman ce  and  modem  French  languages, 

606,507. 

in  two  syllables,  of  places  in  the  Bomuice  and  modern  French  lan- 


guages, 607-518. 

',  in  three  syllables,  of  places  in  the  Bomance  and  modem  FrNi<di  lan- 


gunge^  &1&'630. 

-,  proper,  great  confusion  in  early,  96. 


Nanun-Sin,  alabaster  vase  of,  in  British  Museum,  192. 

Nicephorus  gives  a  fiiU  account  of  St.  George,  mixed  with  legendary  history, 

112. 
■    ■  ■ mentions  with  details  the  assassination  of  George,  the  Arian 

Biahop  of  Alexandria,  130. 
Nicopolis,  the  city  of  Victory,  built  by  Augustus  after  the  battle  of  Actium, 

232. 
Nike  represented  on  the  Beugnot  vase-painting  of  the  birth  of  Athene,  41. 
-  of  the  pediment  of  the  Parthenon,  must  have  worn  a  metallic  tenia, 

42. 

'  -,  peculiar  treatment  of  the  drapery  of,  43. 
Nonnus,  the  poem  by,  abounds  in  allusionB  to  the  Horai  as  Dionysiades,  89. 


680  INDEX. 

Obeubk  at  Borne,  brought  from  HeliopoUs  in  Eg^pt,  318. 

On,  or  Aven,  the  name  giren  by  the  IJSX.  to  the  Egyptian  HeUopoln,  S6T. 

FuJBBiTB,  andent  city  of,  probable  site  of  its  ruinB,  234. 

Fallal,  Homeric  hymn  to,  accepted  as  genuine  by  both  Phidias  and  Thncj- 
dides,  IS. 

-,  statue  of,  described  by  Tiseonti,  24. 

Pars,  drawings  by,  presented  to  the  Britiah  Huaeom  by  the  Socie^  of  Dibt- 
tanti,2. 

Fatili,  Dr.  B., "  On  Political  Poom  relating  to  the  troubles  of  the  reigni  of  Ed- 
ward n.  and  III.,  and  account  of  the  Tint  of  Charles  T.  to  England,  by  ib 
eye-witness,"  183-200. 

Pedestal  of  a  statue,  with  the  name  of  Cneus  Cornelius  Lentnlus,  the  8nt  Pro- 
praetor of  Cyreno,  417. 

Pediment,  Eastern,  angles  of  the,  occupied  by  personificationa  of  luger  nop, 
10. 

■  at  southern  comer  of  the,  Helios  and  hie  horses  rise  to  Urn 

steep  of  mom,  10. 

■ ,  at  northern  comer  of  the,  Silene  sinks  downward  wili 


her  team,  10. 

—  Western,  angles  of  the,  occupied  with  personificadona  of  At&s 


rirers,  10. 
Pediments,  the,  generally,  exhibit  the  contrast  of  god  and  goddess  at  oppodte 

angles,  27. 
P^ggc,  Dr.  Samuel,  writes  an  essay  on  tha  original  of  the  equestrian  figuit  of 

St.  George,  107. 
Plia-nician  characters,  different  form  of,  according  as  the  inscriptions  are  earlj 

or  late,  463. 

coin,  described  by  Combe  and  the  Due  do  I^uynes,  303. 

ill  script  ions,  fine  collection  of,  coUocled  by  Mr.  Davis,  453-437. 

■■ inscriptions,  ninety  of  tliose  sent  liome  by  Mr.  Daris,  piiblislted  br 

tlio  Trustees  of  the  Britiah  Museum,  455. 

inscriptions,  collected  by  Mr.  Daris  anterior  to  the  orerthrow  of 


Carthago  by  the  Romans,  455. 

—  inscriptions,  names  occurring  on,  in  almost  all  cases  of  &nutic 


origin,  456. 
Pliidiun  art,  any  restoration  of  the  sculptures  of  the  Parthenon  must  be  in«lf 

in  haniiony  with,  9. 
Philostrutus,  description  by,  of  the  delight  of  Zetis  at  the  birth  of  Minerr*, 

15. 
Pierides,  51.,  important  Greek  inscription  found  by,  in  Cyprus,  395. 
■  '■         ■,  remarkable  Phoenician  inscription  found  by,  at  Cittium,  in  CrpfOJi 

397. 
Pleuron,  two  cities  bearing  in  ancient  timM  this  name,  one  called  Old,  the 

other  >'ew  Pleuron,  219. 

,  New,  ruins  of,  on  a  spur  of  Mount  Zygos,  239. 

■ ,  account  of  (ho  niina  of,  239-243. 


INDEX.  681 

Popol  Tub,  in  ita  pratent  lUte,  put  together  about  flfteon  jwn  before  Spaniih 
oonqneat,  p.  424. 

—  ,  extracte  from,  with  a  sample  of  the  Qnichua  language,  429-431. 
Porcfaer,  Commander,  B.N^  condocta  excaTotions  at  pfreiie  with  Lieutenant 

Smith,  B  Jl,  S99. 
Frocloa,  hjmn  to  Athene  b;,  1. 

Fxocopiua,  the  flnt  author  who  ipealks  of  "  Oeorge  the  If  ar^,"  109. 
^renees,  Eaatem,  namea  Couod  in,  compared  with  tbxme  along  the  Taurio 

Cbenoneaag  and  Enzine,  488. 

SACxa,  luooeMTre,  remaina  of,  found  one  abore  the  other  at  Cjrene  aa  elaewhere, 

418. 
Bawlinson,  Uigor-Qeneral  Sir  H.  C,  "  lUustTstiona  of  Egyptian  Histotj  and 

Chronology  from  the  Cunoiform  Inecnptiona,"  1S7-168. 
Bed  Man  of  North  Amerioa,  not  oeTtaiuly  dcsosoded  from  the  UongoliMU,  42S. 
Bimmon,  in  Scripture,  it*  probable  meaning,  871. 
BiTen,  namea  of,  along  the  Black  Sea  uid  Sea  of  Aaov,  631-688. 
Bomance  language,  earlieet  document  of,  in  a-d.  842, 489. 
Bouaaillon,  Due  du,  "  M^oire  aur  I'Origine  Scytho-Cimm&ienne  de  la  Lwigue 

Bom&ine,"  482-641. 

Baboon,  the  flrat  exploit  of^  the  capture  of  Samaria,  147. 

—  ,  from  time  oli  the  cuneiform  notiooe  of  Egypt  become  frequent  and  re" 
gutar,  149. 

-,  tylinder  of,  anppoaecl  by  Mr.  Talbot  to  prore  the  existence  of  coined 


money  at  a  very  early  period,  170. 
Sorgon,  inKription  of,  passage  in,  relating  to  temple  worahip,  176. 
8criptur«,  oventa  related  in,  with  reference  to  Hexeldoh,  Sennacherib,  and  Tir> 

hakeh,  confirmed  by  the  contemporary  history  of  the  Assyrians,  168. 
Scytho-Cinunerian  tribes  emigrated  westwards  as  Nomads,  499. 
Selene,  the  torso  of^  discovered  by  Mr.  Lloyd,  40. 
Sennacherib,  his  final  orerthrow  at  tiu  cloae  of  his  reign,  166. 
Shaka  (Saccte),  remarkable  inscription  near,  relating  to  St.  Oeorge,  116. 
Sharpe,  Mr.,  conjecture  of^  relating  to  Ptolemy  Eupalor,  confirmed  by  disco- 

very  of  M.  Pierides'  inacriptions,  396. 
Silphium,  the,  or  narthox  or  assafootida  plant,  the  staple  trade  of  Cyrene,  402. 
Singar,  os  a  name,  not  earlier  than  the  Boman  period,  139. 
Bipparo,  the  same  aa  the  Scriptural  Sepharroim,  and  the  Assyrian  "city  of 

Tsibur  or  Tsibar,"  142. 
Smith,  Lieutenant,  B.M.,  B.B.,  conducts  excavations  at  Cyrene  with  Captain 

Porcher,  H.N.,  399. 
Solomon  built  Baalath  or  Baalbeo  nearly  about  the  same  time  as  Tadmor, 

261. 
Sordoues,  ui  Pomponius  Hela,  called  by  Pliny  Sardonea  and  Surdaones,  491. 
Statuee,  few,  of  value,  among  Mr.  Davis'a  collection,  462. 
Stratus,  the  principal  town  of  Acomania,  223. 
,  account  of  the  niins  of,  224,  225. 

VOL.  VII.  2  u 


632  INDEX. 

Sun,  the,  lerj  TBtiouB  vonhip  oU  in  Pagan  ooimtriM,  806. 
■    -       ,  worship  of,  most  natural  and  prmueral,  310. 


-,  the  winged  aphere  the  common  emblem  o^  on  die  Egyptian  ta^ 


turei,  331. 
Sunday,  the  name  and  itrict  observance  o^  derived  from  Constaotine,  $20. 

Taduob  and  Palmyra,  presumed  to  be  one  and  the  same  place,  SOL 
Talbot,  Mr.  H.  Foi,  "  On  Aasyrian  Antiquities,"  169-182. 

-■  ' ,  *' Preliminary  Translations  of  As^rian  Inscriptions,"  18J- 

200. 

'  The  Annals  of  Esarhaddon,  translated  from  the  Am- 


rian,"  6B1-621. 

,  translation  of  an  inscription  of  Nebuchadnezxar,  UX- 


876. 

Taru  and  Aruttn,  respectively  Tyre  and  Arndus,  60,  61. 
Temples,  ancient,  still  existing  in  the  valleys  of  the  Lebanon,  271. 
of  ApoUo,  Tenus,  Bacchus,  and  perhaps  the  palace  of  Ptolemy,  dis- 
covered at  Oyrene,  418. 
Theodosius,  edict  of,  ngaiost  Paganism,  S22. 
Theophfuies,  in  his  "  Cbronography,"  confirms  the  account  in  the  '  ChnmitOD 

Paschale '  of  the  death  of  Oeoigo,  the  Arian  Bishop  of  Alexandria,  129. 
Theseus,  the  figure  on  the  pediment  of  the  Parthenon  usually  so-called,  mar 

probably  Dionysus,  35. 
Thothmes,  fifth  campaign  of,  in  a  northern  country.  57. 
. approaches  Nineveh  and  sets  up  a  tablet  as  the  boundoiy  of  hii 

empire,  65. 
Tirhakeh,  or  TaracaB,  ascends  the  throne  of  Egypt  and  .Ethiopia  in  o.c.  630, 

158. 
Tor,  meaning  of  this  word  in  the  Pyrenees  and  along  the  coast,  49-1. 
Tschudi  gives  the  drama  called  'Ollanta'  in  his  work  on  the  Quichua  Iso- 

guage,  425. 
Tyre,  great  antiquity  of,  fit. 

Utica,  fine  mosaics,  etc.,  sent  from,  by  Mr.  Davis,  445. 

ViUX,  Mr.  W.  S.  \V.,  Extracts  from  Letters  addressed  by  M.  PiVridrt  and 
F.  Calvert,  Esq.,  to  C.  T.  Kcwton,  Esq.,  imblishcd  by,  39-t-398. 

,  "  On  recent  excavations  at  Cyrene,  conducted  by  Lieul.  Smith, 

R.E.,  and  Comniundcr  Porcbor,  R.N.,"  399-420. 

-,  "  On  recent  t'lcavutions  at  Corthnge,  conducted  by  N,  Dsvis, 


Esq,,  and  M,  Boul.5,"  441-473. 
Vukub,  the  way  in  which  he  was  killed  by  two  youths,  433. 

WALCorx,  Bev.  M.  E.  C,  "A  Slight  Mistoke  of  Lord  Mscaulay,"  335-310. 

Warner,  poom  by,  entitled  'Albion's  England,'  79. 

Welckcr,  Professor,  opposes  the  views  advocated  by  Mr.  Lloyd,  2. 


INDSX.  633 

Werry,  Mr.,  Tioe-Oouul  at  B«n-Ghui,  pointi  oat  importaoee  of  the  iltfl  of 

Cjmie,40a 
'- —  ■  bringi  to  England  a  TtluBble  collectiOD  of  toraoottai,  otc^  &om 

Ben-Obui,  400. 
Wntcon  pediment  of  the  Parthenon,  the  iim  ia  repreaented  u  ntting  io,  14. 

Zaaxsh,  stone  of,  found  twelve  miles  from  Babjrlon,  186. 

Sleus  .^giochna,  Bmall  bronse  bust  o^  in  the  Muieum  Odeeoalcum,  16. 

• Butunee  the  oaken  wreath  with  reHBrence  to  the  nicccaaful  birth 

of  KUnam,  16. 


END    OF  VOL.  VII. 


VBUimB  »  lom*  mwAan  ttxtom 
uiii.a  qvMK*  niHT,  uvcou'i  m  niUM. 


