■ 


,^^^^55Sm1 


r 


[TmP$ex^Qil? 


I 


1 


Inside: 

The  New  WPI  Life  Sciences  and 

Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park 


Departments 


2  Starting  Point 

3  Letters 

4  The  Core  of  Science 
and  Engineering 

A  message  from  President  Berkey. 

5  Campus  Buzz 

A  WPI  professor  is  named  one  of  16  "New 
Faces  of  Engineering";  the  Admissions  Office 
reports  a  record  number  of  applications;  the 
Commencement  speaker  is  chosen;  WPI 
secures  a  record  $15.5  million  in  external 
research  funding  in  2005;  and  more. 

1 0       Inside  WPI 

Brett  Dickson  '06  and  Megan  Holmes  '05 
are  quintessential  student-athletes. 

1 2       Explorations 

An  IQP  team  in  Thailand  designs  a  model 
irrigation  system  for  a  nonprofit.  In  turn, 
their  work  will  help  sustain  the  lives  of 
deprived  children. 

1 4       Entrepreneurship 

Through  their  start-up,  Steve  Rubin  '74 
and  Paul  Vanslette  '84  are  helping  keep 
our  nation's  water  supply  safe. 

1 6       Investigations 

Faculty  develop  technologies  to  remove 
harmful  organisms  and  chemicals  from 
our  water. 

34      Alumni  Connections 

A  message  from  Morgan  Rees  '61, 
president  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

36       Class  Notes 
44      Obituaries 
48       Time  Capsule 


18 


The  WPI  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  heralds  the 
future  of  research  at  WPI. 


About  the  cover 

Photography  by  Patrick  O'Connor.  Cover  concept  by 
Steven  Pascal.  Special  thanks  to  Paula  Moravek,  of  the 
Chemistry  and  Biochemistry  Department. 
This  page:  Students  take  a  break  from  their  research  in 
the  new  clean  room  in  Higgins  Labs. 


24      Tapping  Solutions 

Dean  Kamen  '73  and  George  Oliver  '82  share  a  sense  of 
urgency  to  solve  the  global  water  problem. 


8      Who's  Watching  Your  Water? 

Dino  Eliadi  '72  and  Phil  Guerin  '82  safeguard  Worcester's 
water  supply.  And  yes,  they  drink  the  water. 

30       Narrowing  the  Universe 

Jo  Anne  Shatkin  '85  determines  which  contaminants  we 
should  (or  shouldn't)  worry  about. 


32       Reaching  Out  to 

Water-Stressed  Countries 

Philip  Giantris  '65  believes  in  the  global 
necessity  for  good,  clean,  accessible  water 
for  all. 


SRSSSKSS 


"When  drinking  water,  think  of  its  source."    —Chinese  proverb 

Growing  up  in  the  suburbs  of  Connecticut,  I  never  worried  about 
water.  Not  only  was  it  clean,  it  was  fluorinated.  There  was  always  enough  to 
drink — unfiltered,  from  the  kitchen  faucet — and  fill  our  bathtub,  run  our 
dishwasher,  and  water  our  lawn.  And  when  summer  came,  my  sister  and  I 
could  run  through  the  sprinkler. 

During  a  childhood  visit  with  my  aunt  in  New  York  City,  I  filled  a  glass 
with  tap  water  and  noticed  it  looked  discolored.  "It's  fine,"  my  aunt  said. 
"Sometimes  you  just  have  to  let  the  water  settle." 

Settle?  To  a  girl  from  the  suburbs,  dirty-looking  water  was  anything  but 
settling.  (Of  course,  the  water  was  perfectly  fine;  some  even  believe  that  New 
York  City  water  is  what  makes  the  bagels  so  good.) 

For  most  Americans,  water  has  always  been  available  in  ample  amounts. 
Perhaps  we've  never  stopped  to  think  about  the  74  gallons  of  water  each  of  us 
uses,  on  average,  every  day,  or  how  lucky  we  are  to  have  good,  clean,  cheap 
access  to  it.  It  is,  after  all,  one  of  our  most  basic  needs. 

Yet  populations  around  the  globe  aren't  as  fortunate.  One  billion  people 
don't  have  access  to  clean  drinking  water.  Another  2.6  billion  lack  basic  sani- 
tation. Every  year,  7  million  people  die  from  water-borne  diseases  (including 
diarrhea)  that  are  entirely  preventable.  And  even  though  it's  earth's  most 
abundant  resource,  only  about  1  percent  of  water  is  fresh  and  drinkable  (2 
percent  is  frozen,  the  remaining  97  percent  is  salt  water).  As  the  global  popu- 
lation continues  to  rise,  the  demand  for  water  is  projected  to  double  over  the 
next  20  years.  Meanwhile,  population  shifts  are  straining  the  current  infra- 
structure. In  the  developing  world,  the  number  of  people  moving  from  rural 
to  urban  areas  is  so  high  that  we  in  the  western  world  can't  even  comprehend 
it,  says  Philip  Giantris  '65  (see  story  page  32). 

These  numbers  and  statistics,  though  startling,  aren't  meant  to  be 
depressing.  But  they  do  give  context  to  the  important  work  of  the  alumni, 
faculty,  and  students  highlighted  in  this  issue  of  Transformations. 

George  Oliver  '82  and  Dean  Kamen  '73,  for  example,  are  separately 
addressing  the  global  water  issue  head  on,  in  an  effort  to  provide  clean  water 
to  those  who  don't  have  it.  Locally,  at  the  Worcester  DPW,  Dino  Eliadi  '72 
and  Phil  Guerin  '82  watch  over  our  water  supply — an  increasingly  important 
task  in  our  post-September  1 1  world.  Steve  Rubin  '74  and  Paul  Vanslette  '84 
have  developed  technology  to  stand  guard  at  municipal  water  facilities.  Jo 
Anne  Shatkin  '85,  meanwhile,  identifies  the  microorganisms  in  water  that  we 
should  (or  shouldn't)  worry  about. 

There's  more  in  this  issue,  including  a  column  by  President  Berkey  on 
the  core  of  science  and  engineering.  We  detail  the  future  of  research  at  the 
university  (the  WPI  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park 
is  scheduled  to  open  next  year).  Indeed,  WPI  is  investing  simultaneously  in 
the  future  of  research  and  in  the  economic  vitality  of  Worcester.  And  as  we  go 
to  press,  the  Bartlett  Center — future  home  to  admissions  and  financial  aid — 
is  about  to  open.  It's  certainly  an  exciting  time  to  be  at  WPI  and  in  this  city. 
Whether  it's  the  article  on  Gateway  Park  or  our  package  on  the  future  of 
water,  I  hope  we've  given  you  something  to  think  about  and  enjoy. 

Thanks  for  reading. 

Charna  Westervelt,  Editor 


Charna  Westervelt 
Editor 

Christopher  Hardwick 

Vice  President,  Marketing  and 

Communications 

Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Director  of  Research  Communications 

Bonnie  McCrea 
Production  Manager 

Peggy  Isaacson 

Graphic  Designer  and  Copy  Editor 

Joan  Killough-Miller 
Alumni  News  Editor 

Patrick  O'Connor 
Principal  Photographer 

rerdesign,  pascal 
Design 

Mark  Fisher 
Department  Icons 

Alumni  Communications  Committee 

Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  chair;  Philip  A.  Cyr  '86  (MBA  '02), 
James  S.  Demetry  '58,  Pamela  A.  DiScipio,  Alumni  Relations; 
William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60,  William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Douglas  W 
Klauber  '68,  Howard  H.  Levine  72,  Megan  M.  Lindberg  '04, 
Amy  L.  (Plack)  Marr  '96,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50 

Editorial  Board 

Gina  Betti,  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation; 
Lisa  Davenock,  Management;  Anne  McPartland  Dodd  75; 
Hossein  Hakim,  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering;  Dana 
Harmon,  Physical  Education,  Recreation,  and  Athletics;  Calvin 
Hill,  Diversity  Programs;  Natalie  Mello,  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies;  Robert  Oborne,  University  Advancement; 
Denise  Rodino,  Corporate  and  Foundation  Relations;  Robert 
Thompson,  Chemical  Engineering;  Richard  Vaz,  Electrical  and 
Computer  Engineering,  and  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies. 

www.wpi.edu/+Transformations 
e-mail:  transformations@wpi.edu 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily 
reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editor  or  official  WPI  policies. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  Transformations, 
WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 
Phone:  508-831-6715;  Fax:  508-831-5820. 

Transformations  (ISSN  1 538-5094)  is  published  quarterly  by 
the  Division  of  Marketing  and  Communications  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association.  Printed  in  USA  by  Mercantile/Image  Press. 

Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester  Mass.,  and  at  additional 
mailing  offices.  Postmaster:  please  send  address  changes  to  address 
above.  Entire  contents  ©  2006,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


Job  well  done 

I  was  moved  to  write  after  reading  the  Winter  2005  issue.  I 
found  the  diversity  of  human  perspectives  on  technology  to 
be  very  inspiring.  I  applaud  the  breadth  of  the  arts  covered 
by  your  magazine.  Dean  Kamen  (p.  4)  is  a  shining  example 
of  a  caring  engineer  who  does  not  see  technology  as  an  end 
in  itself.  The  article  on  the  Little  Theatre  brought  back  many 
fine  memories  of  performances  in  Alden  Hall,  from  theatre 
to  entertainment  to  provoking  discussion.  I  still  think  of  Lens 
and  Lights  movie  nights,  when  I  hear  the  Beatles'  "Here 
Comes  the  Sun."  I  remember  speeches  by  Isaac  Asimov  and 
Tracy  Kidder  {Soul  of  a  New  Machine),  which  were  influential 
in  my  education.  I  recall  Asimov  saying  something  to  the 
effect  that  science  fiction  predicted  the  technology  of  televi- 
sion, and  also  predicted  the  moon  landing,  but  did  not  pre- 
dict our  participating  in  the  latter,  using  the  former.  The  fact 
that  I  approach  engineering  with  a  people  perspective  is 
something  so  fundamental  to  my  approach  now  that  I  don't 
often  reflect  credit  on  the  WPI  Plan,  which  planted  the  seed. 

The  piece  on  the  Well-Rounded  Technologist  (p.  19) 
particularly  hit  home,  since  I  find  I  draw  from  the  insights 
gained  in  Prof.  Schachterle's  (pictured  p.  32)  Science  and 
Technology  Literature  course  (circa  1982).  Over  the  years  I 
have  returned  frequently  to  the  themes  raised  in  those  discus- 
sions. In  fact,  I  have  recently  just  completed  my  third  reading 
of  Robert  Pirsig's  Zen  and  the  Art  of  Motorcycle  Maintenance. 
Being  taught  from  this  profound  book  was  worth  the  price  of 
admission;  I  turn  to  it  again  and  again  for  new  inspiration. 

I  look  forward  to  reading  future  Transformations  articles 
highlighting  the  individuals  who  shape  our  relationship  with 
technology.  Your  magazine  reminds  me  of  the  reason  I  am  an 
engineer,  and  rekindles  my  appreciation  for  the  WPI  institu- 
tion that  shaped  my  education. 

William  Lees  '85 

Redmond,  Wash. 


Our  technological  culture 

I  was  glad  to  read  about  Lance  Schachterle's  work  with  the 
WPI  Studies  in  Science,  Technology,  and  Culture  series.  I 
think  this  is  even  more  important  today  than  when  I  was  at 
WPI,  given  the  increasing  pervasiveness  of  technology  in  our 
culture.  It's  hard  to  remember  back  to  the  early  '80s  when 
there  were  no  cell  phones,  Internet,  laptops,  or  PDAs. 

David  B.  Damon   83 

Mystic,  Conn. 

Linking  science  and  humanities 

Congratulations  to  WPI  on  the  Winter  2005  issue  of 
Transformations.  It's  a  fine  piece,  so  full  of  inspirational  stories 
and  connections  between  the  humanities  and  sciences.  I  keep 
sharing  it  with  as  many  people  as  I  can,  particularly  with 
those  teachers  in  the  Worcester  Public  Schools'  large  compre- 
hensive high  schools  as  they  conceptualize  and  develop  small 
theme-based  schools  within  each  high  school.  These  Small 
Learning  Communities  have  themes  including  business,  engi- 
neering, visual  and  performing  arts,  and  health  and  science, 
all  of  which  offer  rich  humanities-science  linkages. 

Gale  Hilary  Nigrosh 

Higher  Education  &  Business  Partnerships,  Worcester  Public  Schools 

Continually  inspired  by  humanities 

Thank  you  so  much  for  spending  an  entire  issue  addressing 
an  aspect  of  WPI  that  most  people  wouldn't  consider  being 
anything  more  than  a  requirement.  At  WPI,  the  strong  tech- 
nological culture  was  met  with  a  fervent  love  of  more  right- 
brained  pursuits.  Looking  back  at  my  own  experiences  and 
class  work,  I  remember  most  vividly  my  humanities  classes. 
Ten  years  after  graduating,  I  still  correspond  with  Susan  Vick, 
professor  of  drama/theatre.  She  was  an  inspiration  while  I  was 
a  student,  and  continues  to  be  a  muse  of  sorts  in  my  life  now. 
She  supported  me  a  few  years  ago  as  I  pursued  my  love  of 
improvisational  acting.  She  motivated  me  to  use  my  improv 
skills  to  write  my  first  real  play  that  was  later  performed  at 
the  New  Voices  festival  that  year.  Every  year  since,  she  is  on 
my  mind  as  the  January  deadline  approaches.  New  Voices 
gets  my  creative  juices  flowing  in  an  area  that  terrifies  me; 
occasionally  I  even  submit  something.  And  all  because  she 
simply  exists  as  the  wonderful  person  she  is.  So,  thank  you 
for  spending  time  to  talk  about  Susan  and  the  others  who 
keep  us  using  both  sides  of  our  brains.  It's  the  first  time  I've 
read  Transformations  cover  to  cover. 

Jesse  Parent '96 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Trans  form  at  ions    \    Spring  2006     3 


A    message    from    President    Berkey 


The  Core  of  Science  and  Engineering 


I  recently  had  the  opportunity  to  present  testimony  to  the  U.S. 
Secretary  of  Education's  Commission  on  the  Future  of  Higher 
Education.  During  a  public  hearing  in  Boston,  I  made  suggestions, 
based  on  WPI's  successful  experience  with  its  distinctive  approach 
to  education,  on  how  we  can  ensure  our  nation's  colleges  and 
universities  are  preparing  students  to  compete  in  the  new  global 
economy.  The  work  of  this  federal  commission  — including  a  final 
report  later  this  summer— will  serve  as  the  blueprint  for  a  twenty- 
first  century  model  of  higher  education. 

In  my  testimony  I  referred  to  Alfred  North  Whitehead's  classic 
essay  "The  Aims  of  Education"  and  his  skepticism  about  the 
teaching  of  "inert  ideas,"  which  he  warned  are  "merely  received 
into  the  mind  without  being  utilized  or  tested.  The  details  of 
knowledge  which  are  important  will  be  picked  up  ad  hoc  in  each 
avocation  of  life,"  he  wrote,  "but  the  habit  of  the  active  utilization 
of  well-understood  principles  is  the  final  possession  of  wisdom." 

It  is  Whitehead's  "imaginative  engagement"  in  learning  that  we 
seek  every  day  at  WPI  —  in  our  classrooms,  in  our  labs,  in  our 
required  projects,  and  in  the  academic  discourse  that  extends 
beyond  classroom  walls.  Indeed,  our  commitment  to  learning  in 
and  out  of  the  classroom  dates  back  to  our  school's  founding 
principle:  Lehr  und  Kunst,  theory  and  practice.  WPI's  forefathers 
were  remarkably  insightful  in  taking  this  radically  different 
approach  to  education  as,  140  years  later,  their  philosophy 
continues  to  guide  our  highly  effective  approach  to  science  and 
engineering  education. 

Perhaps  the  most  distinctive  aspect  of  a  WPI  education  today  is 
the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project,  in  which  teams  of  students 
address  problems  at  the  intersection  of  technology  and  society. 
Under  the  direction  of  our  Global  Studies  Program,  the  IQP 
experience  extends  our  tradition  of  theory  and  practice  literally 
around  the  globe.  Whether  they're  working  in  Costa  Rica  to  assist 
energy  conservation  efforts,  in  Namibia  to  improve  sanitation,  or 
in  Worcester  to  assess  brownfield  redevelopment,  our  students 
learn  how  to  solve  problems  as  members  of  a  team,  in  real  time, 
in  the  real  world. 

WPI's  innovations  in  educational  philosophy  and  pedagogy  do 
not  in  any  way  detract  from  its  traditional  focus  on  engineering 
and  basic  science.  Indeed,  students  continue  to  come  here  to  study 
automotive  and  aerospace  engineering  (mechanical  engineering 
remains  our  most  popular  major),  robotics,  building  design, 
chemical  processes  and  their  applications,  and  computer  and 
communications  technologies  and  systems.  The  more  recently 
developed  programs  in  biomedical  engineering  and  the  life 
sciences,  where  the  power  of  modern  technology  and  science  is 
applied  to  vitally  important  problems  in  health  and  medicine,  are 
growing  in  popularity.  (See  page  1 8  for  a  related  story  on 
Gateway  Park.)  And  WPI's  programs  in  the  management  of 
technology  prepare  students  for  leadership  in  a  world  heralded  by 
Tom  Friedman  as  increasingly  flat,  global,  and  competitive. 


i  B 


In  addition  to  our  distinctive  approach  to  education  in  both 
traditional  and  emerging  areas  of  engineering,  science,  and 
management,  WPI  encourages  real  engagement  with  the  arts  and 
humanities  as  part  of  a  complete  education.  Ours  is  a  campus  on 
which  musical  and  theatrical  groups  abound  and  thrive,  and 
where  faculty  advisors  direct  students  to  study  deeply  in  one  or 
two  areas  of  the  traditional  liberal  arts  in  preparation  for  a  required 
project  synthesizing  and  commenting  on  their  experience  in  these 
courses.  We  do  this  because  we  understand  the  importance  of 
broadly  educated  citizens— thoughtful  individuals  leading 
examined  lives,  motivated  by  compassion  as  well  as  passion. 

We  understand  also  that  leadership  and  innovation,  two  qualities 
that  we  aspire  to  foster  in  all  of  our  students,  come  not  only  from 
the  collaborative  experiences  of  working  in  teams  and  across 
boundaries  of  knowledge  and  culture,  but  also  from  the  creative 
instincts  fostered  by  the  experience  of  different  modes  of  thought 
and  ways  of  working. 

Succeeding  in  our  rapidly  evolving  technological  world  — both 
personally  and  professionally  as  individuals,  and  collectively  as 
a  nation  and  a  global  community— is  a  highly  complex  challenge. 
That  is  why  WPI  continually  strives  to  prepare  its  graduates 
extremely  well,  not  only  to  be  well-trained  engineers  and  scientists, 
but  to  be  broadly  educated  citizens  of  the  world.  Generations  of 
alumni  have  benefited  from  this  understanding  and  philosophy,  as 
will  generations  to  come. 


4     Transformations    \    Spring  2  006 


CampusBuzz 


A  Royal  Visit 


WPI  was  honored  to  host  HSH  Radu,  Prince  of  Hohenzollern-Veringen,  during  his  inaugural  Friendship  Tour  to  the  United 
States  in  February.  As  part  of  his  full-day  visit,  he  gave  a  free,  public  lecture  on  "Romania's  Transatlantic  Perspectives" 
in  Alden  Memorial.  His  visit  to  WPI  was  his  only  New  England  stop. 


President's  IQP  Award  Winners  Announced 


Student  projects  resolving  water  issues  in  a  Thai  village  and 
reducing  landfill  waste  in  Puerto  Rico  took  top  honors  in  this  year's 
President's  IQP  Awards.  The  awards  recognize  the  best  projects 
that  examine  a  problem  at  the  intersection  of  technology  and 
society.  In  all,  President  Berkey  and  a  panel  of  distinguished 
judges  recognized  five  projects  for  student  work  performed  in  the 
corporate,  government,  and  nonprofit  sectors  around  the  world. 

The  two  projects  that  tied  for  first  place  involved  designing  an 
irrigation  system  for  a  center  for  abused  children  in  Thailand 
(see  page  12),  and  developing  a  sustainable  waste  management 
system  for  McNeil  Consumer  Healthcare  in  Puerto  Rico. 

There  was  also  a  tie  for  second  place.  Students  worked  with  the 
Department  of  Infrastructure,  Water,  and  Technical  Services  in 


Windhoek,  Namibia,  to  assess  a  pilot  study  for  a  pre-pay  water 
metering  system  in  the  city's  informal  settlements  as  a  solution  to 
nonpayment.  The  other  team  developed  a  low-cost  robotics  outreach 
and  educational  program  in  conjunction  with  the  Worcester  Public 
Schools  as  a  way  to  teach  basic  engineering  and  programming 
principles,  and  encourage  high  school  students  to  pursue  an 
education  in  engineering  or  science. 


Third  place  went  to  a  team  that  helped 
to  preserve  the  nautical  traditions  and 
maritime  heritage  of  Venice,  Italy. 
The  students  worked  with  Arzand, 
an  organization  specializing  in  the 
study  and  conservation  of  historic 
Venetian  boats. 


Trans  formations    \   Spring  2  006    5 


MoreBuzz 


New  Face  of  Engineering 

Jennifer  Wilcox,  assistant  professor  of  chemical  engineering,  was 
recognized  nationally  as  one  of  16  "New  Faces  of  Engineering" 
by  the  National  Engineers  Week  Foundation. 
Wilcox  was  nominated  by  the  National 
Science  Foundation  for  the  honor,  which  is 
an  annual  tribute  to  the  nation's  top  young 
engineers.  She  is  one  of  just  five  women 
recognized;  she  also  is  the  only  honoree 
from  New  England  and  is  the  only  college 
or  university  faculty  member. 

As  a  result  of  the  honor,  Wilcox  was  featured 
in  an  ad  that  ran  in  USA  Today  and  on  the 
Engineers  Week  Web  site  (www.eweek.org) 
during  National  Engineers  Week,  Feb.  19-25. 

Wilcox's  research  focuses  on  finding  ways 
to  eliminate  toxic  metals— such  as  mercury, 
arsenic,  and  selenium  — from  the  gases 
emitted  by  coal-fired  power  plants.  She 
joined  the  faculty  in  2004;  soon  thereafter, 

she  won  an  NSF  CAREER  Award,  the  agency's  most  prestigious 

honor  for  young  faculty  members. 


Record  Year  for 
Faculty  Research 

In  2005,  the  university  set  a  new  record  by 
securing  $15.5  million  in  external  research 
funding  — the  most  in  school  history,  and  a  68 
percent  increase  over  2004.  The  funding  has  led 
to  significant  WPI  breakthroughs  in  the  areas  of 
wireless  communications,  alternative  fuels,  and 
the  life  sciences.  WPI's  labs  have  developed 
technology  to  produce  low-cost  hydrogen  for 
fuel  cells,  noninvasive  medical  sensors,  and  the 
world's  first  wearable,  untethered  ultrasound 
system.  In  addition,  WPI's  faculty  has  garnered 
a  broad  range  of  national  and  international    *+. 
recognition  for  their  scholarship,  research,  and 
educational  activities.  Among  these  honors  are 
11  Fulbright  Scholarships,  19  National  Science 
Foundation  CAREER  Awards  (for  the  most 
outstanding  young  scholars),  and  nearly  50 
fellowships  in  national  and  international 
professional  organizations. 


Wireless  Ultrasound  System  in  Clinical  Trials 


The  U.S.  Army  has  begun  clinical  trials  of  the  first  wearable, 
untethered  medical  ultrasound  system,  which  was  developed 
by  researchers  in  the  Center  for  Untethered  Healthcare,  part 
of  WPI's  Bioengineering  Center.  The  voice-activated,  battery- 
powered  system  is  fully  integrated  into  a  lightweight  vest, 
enabling  a  physician  to  bring  the  ultrasound  scanner  to  the 
patient,  rather  than  transporting  the  patient  to  a  hospital  or 
clinic.  The  system  is  completely  untethered  — no  power  cords, 
signal  cables,  or  other  constraining  wires  are  needed. 

Funded  by  the  Army's  Telemedicine  and  Advanced  Technologies 
Research  Center,  the  wearable  system  can  be  used  in  situations 
where  it  is  currently  impossible  to  use  medical  ultrasound,  such 
as  in  combat  support  hospitals,  inside  ambulances  and  transport 
aircraft,  and  at  accident  and  disaster  scenes. 

Graduate  student  Philip  Cordeiro  wears  the  untethered,  battery-powered 
ultrasound  scanner  developed  at  WPI.  The  reseach  effort  has  been  led 
by  associate  professor  James  Duckworth,  left,  and  professor  Peder 
Pederson,  both  of  the  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering  Department. 


6     Transformations    \   Spring  2  006 


When  the  Little  Things  Count 

WPI  celebrated  the  dedication  of  a  laboratory  designed 
for  research  and  education  in  micro/nanoscale  fabrication, 
expanding  the  university's  research  strengths  in  MEMS  (micro- 
electrical-mechanical  systems).  The  new  Lufkin  MEMS  Fabrication 
Facility,  also  known  as  a  clean  room,  will  give  undergraduate 
and  graduate  students  hands-on  experience  for  projects  and 
research  studies. 

The  growing  bioengineering  and  biotechnology  sectors  require 
professionals  trained  in  this  technology,  since  MEMS  are 


i 


Left,  George  Thorn,  program  officer  at  Bank  of 
America's  philanthropic  management,  presents 
President  Berkey  with  a  plaque  during  the 
dedication  of  WPI's  new  MEMS  Fabrication 
Facility.  Above,  a  student  suits  up  before 
entering  the  new  clean  room. 


increasingly  important  to  both  areas,  as  well  as  to  the  commu- 
nications and  manufacturing  industries.  MEMS  are  found  in 
airbag  deployment  systems,  aircraft  controls,  and  biochemical 
sensors. 

Located  on  the  lower  level  of  Higgins  Laboratories,  the  facility 
is  named  in  honor  of  a  generous  investment  from  the  Richard  H. 
Lufkin  Memorial  Fund,  Bank  of  America  Trustee.  Intel  Massachu- 
setts provided  much  of  the  vital  laboratory  equipment  for  this 
new  resource. 


+ 


WPI  Venture  Forum 

Dinner  with  Entrepreneurs 

CEI@WPI  ALL-OUT  Business  Plan  Challenge 

Robert  H.  Grant  Invention  Awards 

Strage  Innovation  Awards 

Networking  Events 

Spotlight  on  Entrepreneurs 

Elevator  Pitch  Clinics 

CEO  East  Collegiate  Entrepreneurship  Conference 

42  Workshops  and  4  Interactive  Seminars 

Invention  to  Venture 

Weekly  Radio  Program 

Vantage  Newsletter 

Resources,  vast  networks,  and  much  more 


An  entrepreneurial  mindset 

WPI  takes  entrepreneurship  education  seriously. 

Just  how  much  more  seriously  is  up  to  you. 

Our  students  are  saying  great  things  about  WPI's  new  entrepreneurship  programs.  But,  they  want  more. 

To  innovate  the  future  of  business.  You  can  help  them  attain  the  entrepreneurial  mindset  they  need  by  working 

with  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  &  Innovation  in  its  Entrepreneurial  Mindset  Initiative. 

For  information  call  508-831-5761  or  visit  www.wpi.edu/-i-CEI 


MoreBuzz 


Carlson  to  Speak  at 
Commencement 

Curtis  R.  Carlson  '67,  who  is  internationally  renowned  for  his 
technological  and  entrepreneurial  leadership,  will  speak  at  WPI's 
138th  Commencement,  on  May  20. 


Carlson,  a  WPI  trustee,  is 
president  and  CEO  of  SRI 
International  — a  nonprofit, 
scientific  research  institute 
in  Silicon  Valley.  Since 
1998,  he  has  led  an 
organization  that  has  been 
called  "the  soul  of  Silicon 
Valley"  and  whose 
innovations  range  from 
household  detergents  to 
the  computer  mouse. 

He  has  been  an  advocate 
for  WPI's  Silicon  Valley 
Project  Center,  which  was 
established  in  1999.  In 
2002,  he  received  the 
Robert  H.  Goddard  Alumni 
Award  for  Outstanding 
Professional  Achievement. 


Curt  Carlson's  career  began  in  1973  at  RCA's  Sarnoff  Laboratory, 
where,  as  head  of  ventures  and  licensing,  he  helped  found  more 
than  a  dozen  new  companies.  He  started  and  led  the  high-definition 
television  program  at  Sarnoff  that  became  the  U.S.  standard, 
winning  an  Emmy  for  outstanding  technical  achievement  in  1997. 
Another  team  he  started  and  led  won  an  Emmy  in  2000  for  a 
system  that  measures  broadcast  image  quality. 

He  is  a  member  of  the  board  of  directors  of  Nuance  Communications, 
a  leading  speech  recognition  company,  and  has  served  on  the 
Air  Force  Scientific  Advisory  Board  as  well  as  the  Defense  Science 
Board.  He  is  also  a  member  of  the  Highlands  Group,  which  makes 
recommendations  to  senior  government  officials  about  technologies 
of  importance  to  the  U.S.  government.  He  holds  more  than  15 
U.S.  patents  and  has  published  or  presented  more  than  50 
technical  publications. 


WPI  Hosts  Biotechnology  and 
Bioengineering  Forum/Career  Fair 

With  the  tremendous  growth  in  the  biotechnology  and  bioengi- 
neering fields,  the  demand  for  well-rounded  professionals  is 
increasing  at  a  rapid  pace.  In  March,  WPI  brought  together  leaders 
from  industry,  academia,  and  government  to  discuss  how  these 
groups  can  better  work  together  for  future  research  and  development. 
Speakers  at  the  corporate  forum  included  U.S.  Rep.  James  P. 
McGovern  and  Thomas  Finneran,  president  of  the  Massachusetts 
Biotechnology  Council.  Following  the  forum,  WPI  hosted  a 
biotechnology  and  bioengineering  career  fair  to  provide  companies 
with  a  rich  pool  of  graduates  ready  to  make  significant  contributions. 


New  Symposium  Highlights 
the  Breadth  of  WPI: 
Graduate  Research 

Nearly  150  graduate  students  participated  in  WPI's  first  Graduate 
Research  Achievement  Day  in  March.  Sponsored  by  the  Office  of 
the  Provost,  the  symposium  represented  the  first  in  what  will  be  an 
annual  showcase  of  research  in  science,  engineering,  the  life 
sciences,  and  bioengineering. 

Awards  were  given  out  in  the  three  categories.  In  engineering, 
Alexandra  Levshin  '05  took  first  place  for  her  research  on 
"Performance  of  Hydrofoils  with  Humpback  Whale-like  Leading 
Edge  Protuberances." 

In  the  life  science  and  bioengineering  category,  Yatao  Lin  took 
top  honors  for  "Investigation  of  Molecular  Scale  Mechanisms  of 
Cranberry  on  Escherichia  coli  Leading  to  Prevention  of  Urinary 
Tract  Infections." 

John  Hayward  won  first  place  in  the  science  category  for  "Mining 
Oncology  Data:  Knowledge  Discovery  in  Clinical  Performance  of 
Cancer  Patients." 


8     Transformations    \    Spring  2006 


!  r  -\< 


' 


1  h 


■ 


■ 


Record  Number 
of  Applications 


The  popularity  of  WPI  among  high  school  seniors  is  at  the  highest  level  in  the  university's  history.  WPI  broke  its  all-time  record  for  the 
number  of  freshman  applications  received,  four  weeks  ahead  of  the  Feb.  1  deadline.  This  unprecedented  demand  for  WPI's  undergraduate 
curriculum— a  model  of  educational  innovation  — builds  upon  several  consecutive  years  of  high-achieving  freshman  classes.  Last  year's 
admitted  Class  of  2009  boasted  an  average  SAT  score  of  1304  and  average  class  rank  in  the  top  15  percent. 


Inspiring  a  lifetime  of  learning 

in  math,  science,  and  engineering 


The  WPI  K- 12  Outreach 
Program  is  challenging 
students  to  grow  academically 
and  is  making  a  difference  in 
educating  the  next  generation 
of  technological  humanists. 


1  wvvw.wpi.edu/Admin/K12 


Trans  formation  i    \    Spring  2  006     9 


On  Top 
of  Their  Games 


By  Adam  Bowles 


In  the  s 


NCAA  tournament  game  last  year 
against  Western  Connecticut  State  University,  Brett  Dickson 
'06  was  suddenly  thrust  into  a  pressure  moment.  With 
about  six  seconds  left,  WCSU  tied  the  game,  leaving 
WPI  players  in  a  daze,  recalls  Coach  Chris  Bartley.  But 
Dickson  knew  his  coach  didn't  want  to  call  a  timeout.  So 
he  quickly  in-bounded  the  ball  to  the  team's  top  scorer, 
who  made  the  winning  basket.  "He's  the  type  of  player 
who  understands  what  is  going  on  in  a  game  so  well 
that  he  really  is  the  extension  of  the  coach  on  the  floor," 
says  Bartley.  "He's  always  thinking  about  the  next 
And,  he's  almost  always  right." 


This  New  Hampshire  native  and  the  son  of  a  college  basketball 
^ogchplays  point  guard  and  has  been  captain  of  the  WPI  team 
since  his  sophomore  year.  As  a  member  of  Bartley's  first 
recruiting  class,  he  helped  the  team  set  a  university  record  last 
year  for  regular  season  wins,  capture  the  NEWMAC  regular 
season  and  tournament  titles,  and  advance  to  the  NCAA 
Division  III  championships  for  the  first  time  in  20  years,  going 
as  far  as  the  Sweet  16.  This  year,  the  team  again  advanced 
to  the  championships,  after  they  won  the  NEWMAC 
tournament  in  February. 

Dickson's  leadership  abilities  extend  beyond  the  court; 
he  is  active  in  Big  Brothers  Big  Sisters  of  Central 
Massachusetts.  "You  develop  a  great  relationship  with 
the  kids,"  Dickson  says.  "I  enjoy  going  every  week." 

As  of  February,  the  electrical  and  computer  engineering 
student  boasted  a  3.8  GPA.  "His  ability  to  balance 
basketball,  academics,  and  community  activities,  and  his 

ability  to  manage  the  other  kids  on  the  team,  as  well  as 

himself,  is  remarkable,"  says  Bartley. 

On  the  soccer  field,  Megan  Holmes  '05,  an  Idahoan,  was 
a  standout  on  a  team  that  boasted  winning  seasons  in 
three  of  her  four  years.  She  scored  1 3  goals  and  made 
33  assists  during  her  career;  last  year,  as  a  senior,  she 
was  second-team  All-New  England  Women's  and  Men's 
Athletic  Conference. 

Holmes  graduated  with  high  distinction  with  a  degree  in 
biomedical  engineering  last  year.  As  an  undergraduate, 
she  received  top  awards— the  Marietta  E.  Anderson 


nations    \   Spring  2006 


Quintessential  student-athletes 
Brett  Dickson  '06  and  Megan  Holmes  '05 

are  a  triple  threat:  they  excel  in  team  sports, 
in  the  classroom,  and  in  life. 


Award  and  the  Ellen  Knott  Awara  — in  recognition  of  her  academic 
excellence,  her  athletic  prowess,  and  her  significant  community  involvement 
through  the  service  fraternity  Alpha  Phi  Omega. 

Following  her  impressive  career  on  and  off  the  soccer  field,  Holmes, 
now  a  biomedical  engineering  graduate  student,  found  time  to  join 
the  women's  field  hockey  team  as  a  center  forward  this  winter. 
She  even  scored  the  first  goal  of  the  season,  making  the 
transition  to  another  sport  look  easy,  says  Coach 
Johanna  DiCarlo. 

"She's  a  great  example  for  the  underclassmen,"  DiCarlo 
says.  "She  works  hard  at  practices.  She  has  a  positive 
attitude.  She's  one  of  those  rare  student-athletes  you  get 
only  every  four  or  five  years." 

It's  that  combination  of  success  in  sports  and  academics, 
as  well  as  their  leadership  qualities,  that  make  Holmes  and  Dickson 
stand  out  on  a  campus  where  more  than  half  of  the  student  body  is 
active  in  varsity  sports,  club  sports,  or  intramurals. 

"They  are  charismatic,"  says  Dana  Harmon,  director  of  physical 
education,  recreation,  and  athletics.  "People  are  drawn  to  them  because 
of  their  leadership  skills." 

But  Holmes  and  Dickson  agree  the  path  of  a  student-athlete  isn't  always  easy. 

Dickson's  time  of  turmoil  came  during  his  freshman  year.  He  started  on 
a  basketball  team  that  struggled  all  year  due  to  inexperience.  And  he 
was  intimidated  by  his  academic  workload.  But  he  gradually  adjusted 
to  college  life  and  learned  to  excel. 

"The  biggest  thing  to  concentrate  on  is  time  management,"  he  says. 
"I  don't  sit  around  and  watch  TV  or  play  video  games.  I'm  usually  working 
out  for  athletics  or  studying  for  a  test.  I've  done  it  all  my  life,  athletically." 

Holmes'  stress  began  to  take  its  toll  during  her  junior  year.  But  with 
friends'  encouragement,  she  recognized  the  importance  of  prioritizing. 
She  eased  up  on  some  of  the  off-season  training.  She  cut  back  on 
work  hours  and  became  more  selective  about  volunteering  with 
her  fraternity. 

"In  hind  site,"  Holmes  says,  "I  realize  how  many  opportunities 
I've  had  and  the  amazing  people  I've  met.  I  wouldn't  change 
my  undergraduate  experience  for  the  world." 


Tra n sfo  rma  ti 


Student  Project  Gives  Impoverished  Children  a  New  Life 


Simon  Beckwith,  Julia  Cohn,  Leigh  Duren,  and  Kyle 
Lewis  haul  surveying  equipment  and  water  collection 
containers  onto  a  field  in  Kanchanaburi  Province, 
ready  for  another  day  of  data  collection.  Their  mission: 
to  design  a  model  irrigation  system  for  a  planned 
80-acre  oil  palm  tree  plantation  some  1 25  miles  north- 
west of  Bangkok.  In  doing  so,  they  would  also  help 
sustain  the  lives  of  Thailand's  deprived  children. 

The  New  Life  for  Abused  Children  Project  in  Thailand  is  a 
nonprofit  organization  that  helps  children  who,  for  various 
reasons,  have  not  enjoyed  the  benefits  of  safe,  loving  homes. 
Some  were  trafficked  from  nearby  countries  into  Bangkok's 
sex  and  drug  trades,  others  suffered  abuse  at  caregivers' 
hands.  New  Life  houses  them,  counsels  them,  and  sends 
them  to  local  schools.  It  also  teaches  them  employable  skills. 
That's  where  the  IQP  team  came  in. 


The  students  developed  an  irrigation  system  for  the 
organization's  oil  palms.  The  trees  will  serve  double  duty  as 
New  Life  teaches  the  children  oil  palm-based  trades  and  uses 
revenues  generated  from  the  trees  to  help  them  expand  and 
become  self-reliant.  New  Life  has  been  assisting  Thailand's 
children  since  1998,  when  it  was  established  by  the  country's 
Duang  Prateep  Foundation  (DPF). 

"The  children  at  New  Life  are  learning  how  to  convert 
the  oil  into  soap,  fragrances,  lamp  oil,  and  other  locally 
traded  commodities,"  notes  Rob  Krueger,  assistant  professor 
in  the  Global  Perspective  Program  of  WPI's  Interdisciplinary 
and  Global  Studies  Division.  "These  skills  are  incredibly 
useful  in  Thailand's  economy"  Krueger  served  as  one  of  two 
advisors  to  this  IQP. 

The  four  WPI  seniors  visited  the  country  from  January 
through  March  2005  for  the  on-site  portion  of  their  IQP, 
which  tied  for  first  place  in  the  President's  IQP  Awards. 


1  2     Transformations    \  Spring  2006 


In  researching  the  best  irrigation  system  to  implement,  the  students  weighed  ecological 

and  geological  factors  and  considered  New  Life's  plans  to  quadruple  the  number 

of  oil  palms  it  hosts  over  the  next  10  years. 


"I  think  we  all  felt  excited  about  this  project,  because  it  could 
have  such  a  lasting,  positive  impact  on  peoples  lives,"  says  Duren. 

Indeed,  agriculture  plays  a  critical  role  in  feeding  and 
employing  Thailand's  population;  60  percent  of  Thais  work  as 
farmers,  according  to  the  Bangkok  Post's  Mid-Year  Economic 
Review  2004.  Thailand  is  also  the  world's  largest  rice  and 
rubber  exporter.  But  perhaps  even  more  significant,  says 
Krueger,  "most  Thais  eat  locally  available  foods,  period." 

All  this  in  a  country  that  relies  heavily  on  rainfall  for 
most  of  its  water. 

"Even  though  Thailand  is  a  reasonably  well-developed 
country,  water  is  still  a  seasonal  commodity,"  Krueger  says. 
"The  natives  are  dependent  on  rainfall  to  sustain  them.  DPF 
and  New  Life  chose  these  trees  not  only  for  the  oil's  commer- 
cial value,  but  because  these  trees  can  grow  in  this  environ- 
ment, with  available  water." 

Fielding  Solutions 

In  researching  the  best  irrigation  system  to  implement, 
the  students  weighed  ecological  and  geological  factors  and 
considered  New  Life's  plans  to  quadruple  the  number  of  oil 
palms  it  hosts  over  the  next  10  years.  They  collected  data 
and  observed  workers  at  the  plantation,  sought  out  local 
equipment  suppliers,  and  worked  on  their  report  at  Bangkok's 
Chulalongkom  University  (Chula),  where  WPI  students  stay 
when  they  travel  to  Thailand. 

One  field  day  found  Cohn  and  Lewis  photographing 
different  points  along  the  test  field's  perimeter  and  along  the 
reservoir  closest  to  the  field,  using  Chula-loaned  surveying 
equipment.  They  calculated  the  field's  area  and  measured 
the  water  source's  position  relative  to  the  field,  while  Duren 
and  Beckwith  collected  water  samples  for  later  analysis. 

On  another  day,  Lewis  rowed  out  to  the  middle  of  the 
reservoir  in  a  tiny  craft,  and  computed  the  lake's  slope  to 
determine  its  depth. 

The  team  also  took  to  the  streets,  traveling  by  taxi,  bus, 
and  foot — sometimes  by  sky  train — to  investigate  local 
irrigation  outfitters. 


At  Chula,  the  students  plugged  their  data  into  AutoCAD 
and  Excel  to  determine  the  length  of  lateral  and  main  tubing 
for  a  drip  irrigation  system,  and  to  estimate  their  recommended 
system's  cost  to  New  Life.  Their  water  analyses  helped  them 
choose  the  best  pump  and  filters  for  the  plantation. 

With  the  painstaking  background  work  completed, 
Duren  says,  "it  was  fun  to  run  a  mock  irrigation  trial.  We 
bought  emitters  and  tubing  from  a  local  supplier  and  rigged 
up  a  model  drip  irrigation  system,  to  see  if  the  soil  would 
absorb  the  water  without  pooling.  We  didn't  want  it  to 
evaporate  or  run  off." 

It  didn't,  and  the  students  recommended  their  drip 
irrigation  system  for  the  plantation.  The  highly  efficient, 
low-tech  approach  will  keep  the  oil  palms'  delicate,  hori- 
zontal root  systems  moist,  and  ensure  an  easily  maintained 
arrangement  that  works  with  New  Life's  existing  reservoirs. 

The  students  went  beyond  their  assignment  and  wrote 
a  maintenance  manual  and  fund-raising  brochure,  which 
provided  drip  irrigation  system  specifications. 

"DPF  will  have  to  raise  funds  to  get  this  project  off  the 
ground,"  says  Beckwith.  "But  once  it's  built,  we  want  the 
system  to  last.  Our  extra  documents  can  help  accomplish 
those  goals." 

"This  IQP  was  an  alignment  of  extraordinary  students 
and  an  extraordinary  project,"  says  Steve  Pierson,  who  served 
as  advisor  with  Krueger.  Pierson  taught  physics  at  WPI  from 
1996  to  2005,  and  has  worked  with  IQP  teams  in  Namibia 
and  Thailand. 

"WPI  does  the  IQP  so  well,"  says  Pierson,  who  is  now 
head  of  government  relations  with  the  American  Physical 
Society.  "The  students  have  two  years  of  classroom  training 
behind  them,  but  they  are  not  yet  aware  of  what  they  can 
accomplish.  Then  they  go  out  and  do  their  IQP,  and  their 
eyes  open  to  their  capabilities." 

They  also  see  new  worlds.  Says  Cohn,  "I  spent  my  last 
IQP  weekend  at  New  Life  with  the  children  and  staff,  just 
to  experience  life  with  them.  I  want  to  go  back  to  Thailand. 
I  miss  it  everv  day." 


Transformations    \    Spring  2006     1  3 


As  research  and  development  was  under  way  for  start-up 
company  Longwatch  Inc.,  its  sales  operation  was  having  its 
own  success,  albeit  in  an  unconventional,  though  convenient, 
office  space:  the  neighborhood  Starbucks.  There,  nursing  a 
cup  of  coffee  for  several  hours,  the  sales  team  took  advantage 
of  the  coffee  shop's  Wi-Fi  connection. 

Now,  three  years  after  its  founding  fathers  came  together, 
this  start-up  has  developed  technology  to  help  protect  the 
water  that  flows  out  of  household  faucets — and  even  into  the 
cups  of  freshly  brewed  coffee — one  municipality  at  a  time. 

"The  issue  of  security  is  something  that  will  be  with  the 
country  and  with  the  world  for  a  long  time,"  says  Paul  Vanslette 
'84,  who,  along  with  WPI  trustee  Steve  Rubin  '74,  are  two  of 
Longwatch's  founding  partners.  "I  think  our  technology  has 
legs,'  as  they  say." 


The  company's  patent-pending  technology,  which 
recently  won  an  Editor's  Choice  Award  from  Control 
Engineering,  offers  local  cities  and  towns  a  way  to  monitor 
their  water  pumps,  wells,  and  tanks  using  remote  video  sur- 
veillance. The  market  outlook  appears  promising,  especially 
following  recent  federal  legislation  that  puts  added  pressure 
on  communities  to  provide  safe  and  reliable  water  to  residents. 

In  2002,  Congress  passed  the  Bioterrorism  Act,  which 
requires  municipalities  serving  more  than  3,300  customers 
to  assess  the  vulnerability  of  their  water  facilities,  based  on  a 
possible  terrorist  attack  or  other  incident  that  could  disrupt 
the  supply  of  clean,  drinkable  water.  The  results  of  these 
mandated  assessments  are  leading  local  officials  to  Longwatch 
in  search  of  a  cost-effective  way  to  securely  monitor  their 
facilities. 


\A    Transformations    \    Spring  2006 


A  Paul  Vanslette  '84  and  Steve  Rubin  '74  tour  the  Littleton,  Mass., 
water  facility,  where  their  patent-pending  technology  safeguards 
the  municipality's  supply  of  water. 


How  it  works 

The  technology  includes  a  device — fundamentally,  an  embedded 
computer  with  four  video  channels — that  is  placed  at  a  remote 
water  site.  The  device  monitors  and  collects  video  signals  that 
are  then  archived  and  transmitted  to  a  central  computer, 
using  the  town's  existing  low-bandwidth  infrastructure. 

The  remote  video  is  then  transmitted  to  a  video  control 
center — a  software  application  that  can  be  installed  on 
existing  computers — where  the  information  is  processed, 
archived,  and  integrated  into  the  control  room  operator's 
computer  screen. 

When  Longwatch's  system  detects  an  alarm,  a  control 
room  operator  is  paged;  he  or  she  can  then  view  a  video  clip 
of  the  recorded  event  on  a  cell  phone  or  home  computer  to 
determine  what,  if  any,  course  of  action  is  taken.  Typically, 
security  systems  at  water  facilities  show  when  an  alarm 
occurred,  but  Longwatch's  technology  also  shows  how  and 
what  was  happening  before  and  after  that  alarm  went  off. 
And  because  cities  and  towns  are  required  to  investigate  any 
and  all  possible  security  violations,  this  technology  "is  a 
much  more  effective  use  of  everybody's  time  and  money," 
Vanslette  says. 

Video  surveillance  isn't  new,  nor  are  wireless  networks. 
However,  most  water  treatment  systems  have  their  critical 
assets  (such  as  pumping  stations,  wells,  and  water  towers) 
located  far  from  typical  networks  such  as  broadband  cable. 
Many  wireless  technologies  are  limited  in  speed,  capacity, 
availability,  or  security.  Because  Longwatch  addresses  these 
issues  by  using  the  utility's  existing  low-speed,  high-security 
telemetry  network,  it  currently  has  no  known  competition. 
"All  the  clients  we  speak  with  ask,  'Where  have  you  been?'" 
Rubin  explains.  "This  kind  of  product  is  long  overdue." 

Vanslette  adds,  "Most  municipalities  don't  have  24-hour 
security  monitoring.  They  don't  have  the  people  or  the 
budget.  And,  they  don't  have  the  bandwidth  in  terms  of 
a  communication  system." 

The  system  works  well  for  cities  and  towns  where 
control  room  engineers  find  themselves  fixing  problems  in 
the  field,  rather  than  solely  monitoring  the  water  facility's 
security  system.  Longwatch  is  the  military  term  for  overnight 
guard  patrol,  much  like  this  technology's  function  at  the 
remote  sites. 


'Just  having  a  clever  idea 

isn't  enough  anymore. 

You  need  a  clever  idea, 

the  right  market,  and  a 

team  that  knows  how  to 

implement  your  services 

to  satisfy  a  real  need." 

\\  —Steve  Rubin  '74 


While  this  particular  venture  is  new  to  the  Longwatch 
management  team,  their  knowledge  of  the  water  industry  is 
not.  Many  were  already  familiar  with  it,  for  they  had  worked 
at  Intellution,  a  company  that  Rubin  started  in  1981  to 
develop  and  supply  process  automation  and  control  software 
to  various  industries,  including  the  water  sector.  [Emerson 
Electric  Company  acquired  Intellution  in  1995.]  "We  under- 
stood the  existing  protocols  and  how  Longwatch  could  inte- 
grate with  those  systems,"  says  Vanslette,  who  was  at  Intellution 
for  18  years. 

Longwatch  was  incorporated  in  September  2005,  but 
unofficially,  the  company  came  into  being  a  couple  of  years 
earlier,  when  two  of  its  founders,  familiar  with  the  new  federal 
requirements,  asked  themselves:  How  do  we  integrate  video 
over  low-bandwidth  radio  infrastructure? 

Shortly  thereafter,  Vanslette  was  called  in  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  software  engineering.  "I  knew  we  had  a  really  strong 
team  and  a  compelling  business  opportunity,"  he  says. 

Six  months  later,  Rubin  became  involved  as  chairman 
of  the  board.  While  he  was  immediately  intrigued  by 
Longwatch,  he  says  it  was  the  market  research  that  really 
piqued  his  interest.  "I  realized  that  [this  company]  could 
be  a  lot  larger  than  any  of  us  first  thought." 

In  the  foreseeable  future,  Rubin  says  he  expects  the 
growing  company  to  become  a  leader  in  video  surveillance 
for  water  facilities,  as  well  as  for  remote  infrastructure  in 
other  industries,  including  oil  and  gas.  But,  he  notes,  what 
will  ultimately  determine  the  success  of  the  company  goes 
beyond  its  technology. 

"The  technology  is  certainly  important.  But  even  more 
critical  is  having  a  great  team  of  people  who  understand  what 
products  and  services  will  sell,"  he  says.  "Just  having  a  clever 
idea  isn't  enough  anymore.  You  need  a  clever  idea,  the  right 
market,  and  a  team  that  knows  how  to  implement  your 
services  to  satisfy  a  real  need."    — CW 


Transformations    \    Spring   2006     1  5 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Generating  Clean  Water 

Kggpjnq  our  drinkinQ  Water       Cryptosporidium,  an  intestinal  parasite,  is  one  of  dozens  of  harmful 

microorganisms  that  can  live  in  municipal  water  supplies.  To  destroy  it,  water 


free  of  harmful  chemicals 

and  microorganisms  is  a 

constant  and  growing 

technological  challenge. 

Indeed,  it  is  one  that 

occupies  a  number  of 

research  teams  at  WPI. 

Here  is  a  look  at  two 

current  programs  that 

are  developing  innovative 

technologies  for  removing 

contaminants  from  drinking 

water  before  it  reaches 

our  taps. 


treatment  plants  can  use  a  tried  and  true  weapon:  chlorine.  Unfortunately, 
protozoans  like  Cryptosporidium  can  be  resistant  to  chlorine.  But  adding  larger 
doses  of  the  chemical  can  have  an  unwanted  side  effect,  as  it  reacts  with  organic 
material  in  water  to  generate  harmful  chemicals,  including  known  carcinogens. 

Jeanine  Plummer,  associate  professor  of  civil  and  environmental  engineering, 
is  developing  a  new  treatment  technique  that  largely  avoids  the  generation  of 
byproducts.  Over  the  past  few  years,  Plummer  has  been  testing  the  effectiveness 
of  sonication,  in  which  water  is  bombarded  with  ultrasonic  sound  waves  to 
destroy  the  unwanted  parasites. 

"Chemical-free  disinfection  is  something  the  drinking  water  industry  has 
been  looking  into  for  some  time,"  Plummer  says.  "While  some  larger  plants 
have  adopted  ultraviolet  technology,  it  has  been  too  expensive  or  complicated 
for  many  facilities.  Were  hopeful  that  sonication  will  prove  to  be  economical 
for  smaller,  rural  plants,  and  maybe  even  for  use  in  homes." 

With  sonication,  sound  energy  creates  miniscule  bubbles  in  the  water.  As 
the  bubbles  collapse,  they  generate  extremely  high  temperatures  and  pressures 
on  a  microscopic  scale,  which  can  severely  stress  microorganisms.  The  collapsing 
bubbles  also  produce  free  radicals — highly  reactive  compounds  that  can  destroy 
cell  membranes. 

In  laboratory  tests,  the  one-two  punch  of  sonication  kills  off  virtually  all 
bacteria,  viruses,  and  protozoa,  given  enough  time.  Since  Cryptosporidium  is 
notoriously  tough  to  kill,  Plummer  is  also  testing  sonication  in  combination 
with  chlorine.  Multiple  disinfectants  may  be  just  what  is  needed,  she  notes, 
for  sonication  and  chlorination  together  can  inactivate  pathogens  in  as  little 
as  10  seconds  of  exposure. 

An  added  benefit,  Plummer  says,  is  that  the  heat  and  the  free  radicals  also 
seem  to  destroy  certain  organic  contaminants  in  water.  Ongoing  work  in  her  lab 
is  focused,  in  part,  on  further  exploring  the  ability  of  the  technology  to  attack 
these  chemicals,  and  on  developing  new  prototypes  of  the  sonication  system 
and  testing  them  on  a  range  of  microorganisms. 

Soaking  Up  and  Breaking  Down  Contaminants 

In  the  mid-1990s,  Robert  Thompson,  professor  of  chemical  engineering,  and 
graduate  student  Arjan  Giaya  ('98  MS,  '02  PhD),  were  asked  by  a  local  company 
to  see  if  they  could  find  a  better  technology  for  removing  toxic  organic  com- 
pounds from  water  than  activated  carbon  filters.  Carbon  filters  can  miss  some 
compounds,  and  once  they  fill  up,  they  must  be  thrown  away  or  regenerated, 
which  can  put  the  harmful  chemicals  back  into  the  environment. 

Thompson  and  Giaya,  now  manager  of  advanced  materials  at  Triton 
Systems  Inc.  in  Chelmsford,  Mass.,  discovered  that  high-silica  zeolites  were  better 
at  adsorbing  organics  than  carbon.  Zeolites,  which  can  be  thought  of  as  molec- 
ular sponges,  are  highly  porous  minerals  that  have  long  been  used  in  industry  as 


16    Tran  sfo  rmations    \    Spring  2  006 


;«£*■ 


catalysts  and  ion  exchange  agents.  The  tiny  pores  in  zeolites  are  ideally  suited  for 
trapping  organic  molecules,  Thompson  says.  But,  like  carbon  filters,  once  the 
zeolites  have  done  their  job,  one  is  still  left  with  concentrated  organic  waste  that 
needs  to  be  disposed.  To  deal  with  this  nagging  problem,  the  molecular  sieves 
have  been  married  to  advanced  chemical  oxidation  processes  being  developed  by 
John  Bergendahl,  assistant  professor  of  civil  and  environmental  engineering. 

Oxidizing  agents,  which  break  down  organic  compounds,  are  commonly 
used  in  water  treatment.  The  advanced  oxidation  chemistry  is  designed  to  target 
specific  compounds — for  example,  MTBE  (methyl  tertiary-butyl  ether,  a  gasoline 
additive)  or  TCE  (trichloroethylene,  a  widely  used  industrial  solvent) — that  are 
found  commonly  in  drinking  water  and  that  pose  serious  health  risks. 

This  combination  of  zeolites,  to  filter  organics,  and  advanced  oxidation 
chemistry,  to  destroy  them  and  renew  the  filter,  has  earned  Thompson  and 
Bergendahl  a  provisional  patent.  They  are  currently  working  with  other  faculty  in 
the  Chemical  Engineering  Department  to  extend  the  technology  to  various  scales 
and  for  other  compounds. 

With  help  from  associate  professor  Nikolas  Kazantzis  and  assistant  professor 
Jennifer  Wilcox,  Thompson  and  Bergendahl  are  exploring  ways  to  custom  design 
zeolites  that  are  perfectly  matched  to  specific  organic  compounds.  These  "designer 
sorbents"  should  be  far  more  effective  at  soaking  up  the  compounds  than  any 
current  technology,  Thompson  says. 

The  organics  removal  and  oxidation  work  is  one  of  the  first  projects  to  come 
under  the  umbrella  of  a  proposed  Water  Research  Center,  to  be  part  of  the  uni- 
versity's Bioengineering  Institute  in  recognition  of  the  diverse  strengths  of  WPI's 
water-related  research  and  the  fundamental  importance  of  a  safe,  clean  water 
supply  to  public  health,  Thompson  says. 

"We're  in  a  building  phase,"  he  says.  "Our  initial  researchers  have  a  track 
record  of  collaborating  and  publishing  together. 

"As  we  move  forward,"  he  continues,  "we'll  be  looking  to  broaden  the  scope 
of  the  center,  bringing  in  additional  faculty  and  additional  areas  of  expertise.  We 
are  also  actively  seeking  support  from  corporations,  foundations,  federal  agencies, 
and  individual  alumni  who  may  have  an  interest  in  or  applications  for  the  tech- 
nologies we  are  developing." 

For  more  information  about  BEI,  as  well  as  its  faculty  and  their  research, 
visit  www.wpi.edu/+BEI. 


Above.  Simulation  or  tertiary  butyl  alcohol 
adsorbed  in  the  open  nanopores  of  a  high-silica 
zeolite.  The  pores  are  ideal  for  filtering  out  toxic 
organic  molecules  found  in  water.  Simulation 
courtesy  of  Ozgur  Yazaydin,  chemical  engi- 
neering graduate  student. 

Top,  Assistant  professor  Jennifer  Wilcox  and  pro- 
fessor Bob  Thompson  (holding  model  zeolites)  are 
collaborating  to  best  filter  harmful  organics  out  of 
water,  while  associate  professor  Jeanine  Plummer 
is  using  sonication  to  destroy  parasites  in  water. 


Transformations    \    Spring  2006     1  7 


The  future  of 
research  at  WPI 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Grant  McGimpsey  (BE!),  Alex  Dilorio  (BBT),  Kristin  Wobbe  (CBC),  Yitzhak 
Mendelson  (BME),  Eric  Overstrom  (BBT],  and  Kristen  Billiar  (BME),  are  just  soma 
faculty  who  will  do  research  in  WPI's  new  facility  at  Gateway  Park. 


The  new  WPI  Life  Sciences  and 

Bioengineering  Center  is  designed  to 

encourage  collaboration  across  key  disciplines 

and  produce  the  kind  of  synergy— and  even 

serendipity— that  can  lead  to  innovative 

areas  of  research  and  development. 

While  the  image  of  the  lone  scientist  lives  on 

in  Hollywood  movies,  science  now  is  almost  exclusively  a 
team  effort.  The  challenges  that  today's  scientists  tackle  are 
highly  complex  and  multidimensional.  More  often  than  not, 
expertise,  ideas,  and  technology  from  an  array  of  disciplines 
are  needed  to  find  answers;  it  takes  other  players,  from 
engineers  to  entrepreneurs,  to  translate  those  answers  into 
life-changing  products  and  processes. 

On  a  parcel  of  former  industrial  land  near  downtown 
Worcester,  the  university  is  putting  this  new  scientific 
paradigm  into  practice  with  the  WPI  Life  Sciences  and 
Bioengineering  Center,  a  1 24,600-square-foot,  $40  million 
complex.  Scheduled  to  open  in  early  2007,  the  four-story 
structure  is  the  embodiment  of  two  strategies  for  the  future: 
investing  in  the  development  of  WPI's  home  city,  and  foster- 
ing the  growth  of  life  sciences  education  and  research  at  the 
university.  On  the  economic  front,  the  center  is  the  first  new 
structure  to  rise  within  the  larger  Gateway  Park  complex,  an 
1 1-acre  life  sciences-based  campus  that  WPI  is  building  with 
the  Worcester  Business  Development  Corporation  (see  page  23). 


Transformations    \    Spring   2006     19 


The  new  building  "is  a  significant  step  forward  for 
WPI,  for  our  partnership  with  the  WBDC,  and  for  the  city," 
President  Dennis  Berkey  said  in  June  2005,  as  ground  was 
broken  for  the  new  facility.  "Locating  our  life  sciences  and 
bioengineering  research  and  graduate  education  programs 
here  in  state-of-the-art  facilities  will  bring  an  important 
scientific  core  to  this  development,  which  will  enrich  WPI's 
educational  efforts  and  attract  potential  collaborators  to  the 
site,  both  academic  and  corporate." 

On  the  academic  side,  the  center  will  give  WPI  an 
enhanced  presence  in  a  field  that  promises  to  drive  the  future 
of  education,  business,  research,  and  innovation.  "Next  to 
defense,  the  life  sciences  represents  the  biggest  chunk  of 
money  the  government  awards  for  research,"  says  W.  Grant 
McGimpsey,  director  of  WPI's  Bioengineering  Institute 
(BEI).  "Its  importance  can  only  grow,  driven  by  an  aging 
population  and  ever-increasing  requirements  for  new 
therapies,  new  treatments,  and  new  medical  devices." 

"We've  got  the  people,  we've  got  the  enthusiasm,  and 
we've  got  the  expertise,"  adds  Carol  Simpson,  WPI's  provost 


and  senior  vice  president.  "As  an  institution,  we  can't  sit  back 
and  let  that  wave  of  research  sweep  by  us." 

To  catch  the  wave,  many  universities  have  invested  in 
life  sciences  and  medical  research  centers  in  recent  years. 
WPI's  approach  to  creating  such  a  center  should  set  it  apart, 
Simpson  says.  "We  will  have  a  true  life  sciences  and  engineering 
group  with  strengths  that  most  life  sciences  programs  don't 
have,"  she  notes.  "Most  research-intensive  universities  have 
biologists  and  biochemists,  but  they  don't  have  many 
researchers  who  think  about  the  engineering  side  of  the  life 
sciences — about  making  products,  and  about  the  innovation  and 
entrepreneurship  involved  in  getting  those  products  to  market. 

"The  WPI  experience  that  we  instill  in  our  students — 
to  recognize  the  social  component  of  our  work,  to  take  our 
research  and  apply  it  in  some  way — is  also  part  of  the  faculty 
culture,"  Simpson  adds.  "That  transition  between  the  pure 
and  the  applied  is  something  we  do  very  well.  There  aren't 
many  universities,  honestly,  that  can  do  this." 

The  faculty  who  will  call  the  new  center  home  will 
come  from  four  departments:  Biology  and  Biotechnology, 


Here's  a  quick  look  at  the  major  inter- 
disciplinary research  groups  that  will  share 
space  in  the  WPI  Life  Sciences  and 
Bioengineering  Center.  The  researchers 
come  from  the  departments  of  Biology  and 
Biotechnology  (BBT),  Biomedical  Engineering 
(BME),  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry  (CBC), 
and  Chemical  Engineering  (CHE),  as  well 
as  from  the  Bioengineering  Institute  (BEI). 

Tissue  Regeneration  and 
Stem  Cell  Biology 

Who  David  Adams  and  Eric  Overstrom  (BBT);  George  Pins 
(BME);  affiliated  faculty  from  University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School 

What  Developing  bioengineered  scaffolds  on  which  soft 
tissue  can  be  grown,  laying  the  groundwork  for  growing 
tissue  from  a  patient's  own  stem  cells;  developing  improved 
methods  to  isolate  and  grow  stem  cells;  genetically  engi- 
neering new  drugs  for  stroke. 

Why  Engineered  cells/tissue  can  repair  or  replace  dam- 
aged skin  and  other  tissue  more  successfully  and  naturally 
than  grafts. 


Tissue  Mechanics  and  Mechanobiology 

Who  David  Adams  (BBT);  Kristen  Billiar  and  George  Pins 
(BME);  affiliated  faculty  from  Mathematical  Sciences  and 
UMass  Medical  School 

What  The  group  studies  how  mechanical  forces  — stretching, 
for  example  — affect,  or  can  be  necessary  for,  proper 
growth  and  healing  of  connective  tissue. 

Why  Artificial  heart  valves  wear  out;  replacement  valves 
from  pigs  can  be  rejected.  A  properly  designed— and 
mechanically  stimulated— artificial  valve  may  last  for  life. 

Plant  Systems 

Who  Alex  Dilorio  (BBT,  Bioprocess  Lab,  and  BEI);  Pamela 
Weathers  (BBT);  Jose  Arguello  and  Kristin  Wobbe  (CBC) 

What  Studying  mechanisms  plant  cells  use  to  transport 
metal  ions  across  their  membranes;  uncovering  techniques 
plants  employ  to  defend  themselves  against  pathogens; 
developing  techniques  for  enhancing  the  production  and 
recovery  of  valuable  chemicals  made  by  plants. 

Why  Understanding  plant  resistance  mechanisms  could 
reduce  the  need  for  pesticides;  enhancing  production  of 
artemisinin,  a  potent  anti-malarial  agent  produced  by  the 
wormwood  plant,  could  help  combat  this  global  scourge. 


20     Transformations    \   Spring   2006 


Researchers  and  graduate  students  will  work  side  by  side 

with  others  who  are  tackling  similar  problems,  but  from 

different  directions  or  with  different  techniques. 


Biomedical  Engineering,  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry,  and 
Chemical  Engineering.  They  will  bring  with  them  a  wide 
array  of  interdisciplinary  research  programs,  many  of  which 
bridge  fundamental  investigation  and  practical  application. 

The  center  will  also  house  the  Bioprocess  Laboratory — 
which  conducts  applied  research  for  biotechnology  companies 
— and  BEI,  an  interdisciplinary  research  and  development 
organization.  With  its  seven  centers,  comprising  faculty  from 
nine  science  and  engineering  departments,  BEI  is  dedicated  to 
developing  cutting-edge  life  sciences-based  technology,  and 
finding  ways  to  turn  it  into  new  products  and  enterprises. 

"Putting  the  researchers  who  are  developing  the  tech- 
nologies in  the  same  building  with  BEI  will  give  us  the 
opportunity  to  match  new  ideas,  even  before  they  are  fully 
formed,  with  entrepreneurs  and  investors  who  may  have  the 
interest  and  ability  to  bring  them  to  market,"  McGimpsey  says. 
"That's  very  exciting." 


Some  of  those  new  ventures,  he  notes,  may  become  ten- 
ants in  the  new  building,  or  in  the  three  other  structures  that 
will  eventually  be  built  at  Gateway  Park.  They'll  join  other 
companies  that  will  choose  to  locate  at  Gateway  to  be  close 
to  WPI's  life  sciences  research  group  and  BEI.  "We  see  this 
new  center  as  the  signature  building  for  Gateway  Park," 
Simpson  says,  "a  facility  that  will  attract  related  companies 
and  interests  to  the  area." 

For  the  departments  that  will  transplant  their  graduate 
research  programs,  the  new  building  offers  a  host  of  advan- 
tages. First  is  the  lure  of  new  space,  expressly  designed  and 
outfitted  for  modern  research  in  the  life  sciences.  A  new  facility 
dedicated  to  research  will  give  departments  added  leverage  as 
they  search  for  new  faculty  members,  notes  Eric  Overstrom, 
head  of  the  Biology  and  Biotechnology  Department.  "We  are 
seeking  to  hire  mid-career  faculty  who  already  have  resources 
and  support,"  he  says.  "They  will  bring  immediate  presence  and 


Molecular  Nanotechnology 
and  Molecular  Sensors 

Who  Christopher  Lambert  (BEI);  Grant  McGimpsey  (BEI 
and  CBC);  Terri  Camesano  and  Susan  Zhou  (CHE);  James 
Dittami,  John  MacDonald,  Venkat  Thalladi  (CBC) 

What  Creating  devices  with  surfaces  that  have  precisely 
engineered  physical  and  chemical  properties  for  sensing 
and  other  applications;  studying  bacteria  at  the  molecular 
level  to  learn  how  to  prevent  harmful  biofilms  from  forming 
on  medical  devices. 

Why  Tiny  devices  with  engineered  channels  and  pores 
may  become  implantable  labs  that  can  monitor  blood 
chemistry  and  transmit  the  results  as  needed. 

Applied  Molecular  Genetics 

Who  Lauren  Matthews,  Sam  Politz,  Reeta  Prusty, 
Elizabeth  Ryder  (BBT) 

What  Studying  the  genetic  mechanisms  a  tiny  nematode 
uses  to  evade  its  host's  immune  system;  uncovering  chemical 
signals  that  switch  fungi  from  benign  to  pathogenic  mode; 
understanding  the  molecular  basis  for  ecological  adapta- 
tion by  shrimp  and  other  Crustacea. 

Why  Fungal  infections  are  notoriously  difficult  to  treat; 
new  drugs  that  exploit  these  chemical  signals  may  work 
far  better  than  current  medicines. 


Advanced  Technologies  in  Biological 
Imaging  and  Sensing 

Who  Yitzhak  Mendelson,  Christopher  Sotak  (BME);  affiliated 
faculty  in  the  BEI  Center  for  Untethered  Healthcare  (BEI- 
CUTH);  James  Duckworth,  Reinhold  Ludwig,  William 
Michalson,  and  Peder  Pederson  (Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering);  and  John  Sullivan  (ME)  work  on  this 
research,  but  will  not  relocate  to  the  new  center. 

What  Through  BEI-CUTH,  developing  noninvasive  optical 
sensors  that  can  monitor  vital  signs  and  transmit  them 
wirelessly;  in  the  MRI  (magnetic  resonance  imaging)  lab, 
developing  advanced  techniques  for  detecting  stroke 
and  seeing  how  it  responds  to  therapies;  in  the  ultrasound 
lab,  developing  portable  3-D  ultrasound  for  diagnosing 
injury. 

Why  Wireless  physiological  sensors  may  enable  doctors  to 
monitor  patients  at  a  distance,  improving  the  quality  and 
lowering  the  cost  of  health  care. 


Putting  a  significant  number  of  people  together  under  one  roof 
to  work  on  the  same  general  theme  creates  opportunities  to 
develop  new  projects  and  new  areas  of  research. 


prestige,  hut  you  can  only  attract  them  it  you  can  show  them  ■ 
facility  like  this." 

New  recruits  and  existing  (acuity  researchers  will  benefit 
from  sharing  a  building  with  researchers  from  multiple  disci- 
plines. "Putting  a  significant  numher  of  people  together  under 
one  root  to  work  on  the  same  general  theme  creates  opportu- 
nities to  develop  new  projects  and  new  areas  ot  research,  and  an 
enormous  opportunity  to  go  after  major  funding."  McGimpsey 
ays.  "In  tact,  almost  all  ot  the  projects  currently  handed  by 
major  federal  agencies  are  multidisciplinarv  projects." 

The  Lite  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  is  expressly 
designed  tor  collaboration.  The  center  is  actually  two  build- 
ings linked  by  a  connecting  structure.  A  former  industrial 
building  will  house  faculty  offices,  with  space  available  on  the 
first  floor  tor  tenants.  A  new  building  will  have  laboratories, 
shared  research  facilities,  and  some  tenant  space.  Conference 
and  break  rooms  will  be  located  in  the  connector. 

The  lab  space  ot  open  bays  w ith  rows  ot  benches  will  be 
allocated  based  not  on  department  affiliation  but  according  to 
research  interest  area.  Researchers  and  graduate  students  will 
work  side  b\  side  with  others  who  are  tackling  similar  prob- 
lems, but  from  different  directions  or  with  different  techniques. 


In  addition  to  lab  benches,  each  wing  will  have  small 
offices  tor  graduate  students,  shared  equipment,  and  special- 
ized facilities,  such  as  warm  and  cold  rooms,  tissue  culture 
rooms,  a  microscopy  suite,  and  facilities  tor  laboratory  animals. 
Space  in  the  lower  level  has  been  allocated  tor  a  magnetic 
resonance  imaging  (MRL  research  laboratory 

Planning  is  already  under  way  to  determine  how  best  to 
reuse  the  space  that  will  be  left  vacant  by  the  move.  Goddard 
Hall  is  likely  to  house  an  undergraduate  life  sciences  educa- 
tion center — with  teaching  labs  in  biologv.  biochemistrv. 
biomedical  engineering,  and  biotechnology — while  space  in 
Salisburv  Labs  may  be  used  tor  new  classrooms  and  offices — 
both  in  short  supply  on  campus. 

What  is  not  lacking  at  WPI  these  days  is  enthusiasm 
tor  the  Lite  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  and  tor  the 
statement  it  makes  about  WrTs  future.  "Its  a  very  focused 
point  that  we  can  look  to."  Simpson  says.  "The  building,  the 
commitment  ot  WT1  to  put  money  into  it,  the  commitment 
ot  the  (acuity  to  pick  up  and  move  their  labs  there — all  that 
is  a  reflection  ot  the  tact  that  we  are  moving  ahead  in  an 
area  that  will  really  bring  a  great  deal  ot  recognition  to 
the  university.''  ■ 


2  2     7    ..'.',  i  ma t ions  .'00b 


TextilesUo  Technology 


Gateway  Park,  a  potentially  $250-million,  11 -acre 

mixed-use  life  sciences  complex,  is  just  one  of  a  number  of  high- 
end  development  projects  downtown  — including  CitySquare,  a 
new  courthouse,  and  a  new  Hilton  hotel  — poised  to  turn  around 
a  city  that  has  struggled  to  find  its  rhythm. 

Indeed,  the  economic  development  drivers  in  central  Massachusetts 
agree:  Worcester  is  a  city  on  the  move.  How  else  do  you  account 
for  all  the  cranes  downtown?  Or  the  $1.3  billion  that  developers 
are  pouring  into  the  city's  numerous  ongoing  projects? 

"The  magnitude  of  this  investment,  both  public  and  private,  signifies 
the  renewal  and  rebirth  of  Worcester,"  says  City  Manager  Michael 
O'Brien.  "These  projects  reveal  a  new  sense  of  community  pride 
and  confidence." 

"Gateway  Park  is  a  piece  of  the  much  larger  puzzle,"  adds 
David  Forsberg,  president  of  the  Worcester  Business  Development 
Corporation.  "What  excites  me  most  is  that  it's  not  just  going  to 
be  a  biotech  park,  but  the  building  of  a  community,  based  in  the 
life  sciences." 

Gateway  Park,  a  partnership  between  WPI  and  the  WBDC,  aims 
to  reclaim  the  region  by  turning  brownfields  into  state-of-the-art  life 
sciences  facilities.  "The  fruits  of  Gateway  Park  will  be  more  than 
jobs  and  real  estate  improvements,"  says  President  Dennis  D. 
Berkey.  "The  research  and  graduate  training  carried  out  in  its 
facilities,  and  the  collaborative  relationships  developed  across 
constituencies  in  this  park,  will  strengthen  our  labor  force,  fuel  our 
life  science  companies,  and  enhance  WPI's  research  capabilities." 

Located  on  a  parcel  of  land  that  previously  housed  some  of  the 
city's  old  factories,  Gateway  Park  is  a  transition  to  the  region's 
future,  as  well  as  a  fitting  tribute  to  the  past. 

"It  will  be  a  place  where  life<hanging  advances  in  science  and 
medicine  will  meet  the  precision  manufacturing  our  city  has  long 
been  known  for,"  says  U.S.  Rep.  James  P.  McGovern. 

The  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park 
will  create  an  estimated  300  jobs  and  will  provide  the  city  with 
more  than  $250,000  in  tax  revenue,  a  significant  increase  over 
the  taxes  collected  on  the  vacant  building.  The  space,  located  at 
60-68  Prescort  Street,  will  primarily  house  the  WPI  Bioengineering 
Institute  and  other  university  programs.  Additional  life  sciences- 
related  companies  will  also  occupy  the  new  building. 

"Placing  our  researchers  alongside  these  businesses  will  create  a 
dynamic  synergy  in  the  area,"  says  D'Anne  Hurd,  vice  president  for 
business  development  at  Gateway  Park  and  WPI's  general  counsel. 


^1]{H\  '  1899 


SAFETY  FIRST 
ALWAYS 


Ctfstructxyi  Manager 
Caeab  Construct©"  Co..  Inc. 


pmentof 
■  Pa*.  LLC 


**»««) Bioengineering  Center 
«aieway  Park       writer 


Hurd— whose  background  includes  a  number  of  VC-backed 
technology  and  biotech  companies— began  her  new  WPI  post 
earlier  this  year.  She  is  responsible  for  attracting  tenants  and  other 
partners  to  Gateway  Park.  "We  are  simultaneously  investing  in  the 
future  of  the  life  sciences  field  and  the  economic  vitality  of  Worcester," 
she  says. 

The  partnership  between  WPI  and  the  WBDC  represents  a 
nationwide  trend  in  which  universities  and  their  hometown  cities 
are  seeking  creative  ways  to  work  together.  "We're  all  in  this 
together,"  says  Steve  Hebert  '66,  university  vice  president.  "This 
has  been  a  win-win  for  everyone— for  the  WBDC  and  WPI,  for 
Gateway  Park  LLC,  and  for  the  city  and  state." 

In  fact,  the  project  has  already  garnered  recognition.  In  June,  the 
Environmental  Business  Council  of  New  England  will  present  its 
Brownfield  Project  of  the  Year  Award  to  Gateway  Park. 

The  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  comprises  a  piece 
of  the  larger  Gateway  Park.  Once  completed,  the  complex  will 
include  housing,  shops,  and  restaurants.  Most  important,  it  will 
provide  jobs— an  estimated  2,500— that  will  create  residual 
economic  activity. 

"Gateway  Park  is  important  for  the  transition  to  the  new 
[biotechnology]  industry,"  says  Worcester  Regional  Chamber 
of  Commerce  president  Richard  Kennedy  '65.  "I  come  from  a 
traditional  industry  background,  and  those  types  of  jobs  just 
aren't  here  anymore." 

Through  Gateway  Park  and  the  other  development  projects,  city 
officials  hope  to  keep  one  of  Worcester's  biggest  assets:  its 
30,000  college  students.  "As  the  economy  changes,  businesses 
want  to  be  where  there  are  well-trained,  well-educated  people,  of 
which  we  have  a  plethora,"  says  Mayor  Timothy  Murray.  "We 
want  to  market  that  and  build  upon  it." 

The  project  will  also  soften  an  area  that,  until  recently,  has  been 
heavily  industrial.  By  putting  a  new  face  on  the  entry  point  to 
Worcester,  many  people  (140,000  cars  drive  along  Interstate 
290  every  day)  will  begin  to  see  a  revived  city.  "People  are  used 
to  seeing  the  backs  of  old  buildings,"  says  state  Sen.  Edward 
Augustus.  "But  now  they  will  see  a  very  different  picture  of 
Worcester.  They'll  see  more  modern  buildings  with  glass,  green 
space,  and  housing.  It's  going  to  give  Worcester  a  different  kind 
of  aura."        —CW 


By  Eileen  McCluskey 


Access,  or  lack  thereof,  to  good,  clean  water 
is  reaching  global  crisis  proportions.  Each  month, 

200,000  people  in  developing  nations  die 

from  water-borne  diseases,  many  of  which  are 

preventable.  Through  their  different  approaches, 

George  Oliver  '82  and  Dean  Kamen  '73 

share  the  same  sense  of  urgency  to  solve 

this  worldwide  problem. 


George  Oliver  soaks  up  the  view  at  the  Atlantic  Salmon  exhibit  at  the  New  England  Aquarium  in  Boston. 


2  4     Transformations    \   Spring  2  006 


They  come  to  the  issue  from  different  backgrounds,  yet 
Dean  Kamen  and  George  Oliver  are  working  toward  the 
same  goal.  Kamen,  founder  of  DEKA  Research  and 
Development  Corporation,  takes  the  one-on-one  approach. 
His  solution  to  the  water  scarcity  problem  comes  in  the  form 
of  a  225-pound  purification  system,  which, 
through  innovations  closely  guarded  by 
DEKA,  can  be  operated  and  maintained 
by  anyone.  Though  it  is  still  under  wraps 
as  DEKA  finalizes  its  entry  to  market,  this 
black  box  takes  vapor  compression  distilla- 
tion technology,  like  that  developed  for 
submarines,  to  a  small  scale  with  greatly 
improved  efficiency  over  traditional 
distillation. 

"This  technology  can  enable  financial  and 
social  change  in  the  developing  world,"  says  Kamen,  who 
holds  an  impressive  track  record  for  inventing  products  that 
take  off — some  literally.  Perhaps  his  best-known  invention 
is  the  Segway*  Human  Transporter.  Kamen  also  invented 
the  INDEPENDENCE5  iBOT  4000  Mobility  System,  a 
wheelchair  that  climbs  stairs  and  traverses  uneven  terrain. 

Kamen  envisions  water  entrepreneurs  across  the  developing 
world,  armed  with  the  DEKA  box,  making  a  decent  living  by 
selling  water  in  their  villages. 

"We  could  wait  decades  for  the  developing  world  to  build 
all  the  necessary  infrastructure,"  Kamen  says.  "Or,  you  can 
take  this  box,  put  the  hose  on  one  end  into  anything  wet,  no 
matter  how  toxic  or  dirty,  and  out  comes  pure,  clean  water." 

Oliver,  meanwhile,  comes  to  the  issue  via  large-scale 
tactics.  The  president  and  CEO  of  GE  Infrastructure  Water  & 
Process  Technologies  has  spent  the  last  four  years  expanding 
the  corporation's  water  scarcity-related  business,  mainly  through 
acquisitions  of  leading  water  purification  and  processing 
companies.  GE's  strategy  encompasses  the  global  proliferation 
of  purification  technology  that  turns  seawater  into  fresh 
water,  as  well  as  the  broad  adoption  of  technologies  and 
practices  to  greatly  reduce  and  reuse  industrial  wastewater. 

"We're  moving  fast,"  Oliver  says.  "We  have  engineers  on 
the  ground  in  more  than  50  countries,  and  are  operating  well 
over  200  industrial  water  and  process  treatment  plants." 


Photography  by  Patrick  O'Connor 


Transformations    |   Spring  2  0  06    2  5 


I lu l  .  .in  *  )||Vt  i .   k.nn.  n.  .in.  I  lli.    \\ « < i  1 1 1  ■ i  n,  1 1 

ii  in. mi-,  in,. \.  quickl)  enough   Somi  experts  havt  warned 

iii  n.  with  dwindling  supplies  and  burg g  population!, 

ii. in. mi-,  in  n  .i.iii  righting  ovt  i  watt  i  mut  h  ai  thi )  '!>'  nov, 
ovt '  oil  iii  ii'-  \ii. I. II.  i  r.i.  fbi  i  icampli .  Itrai  Iii  and 
Palestinians  drav  upon  shared  aquifers  fbi  theii  watei  Both 

•i.Mip-.  Ii.n  ,    I.  riiniui,    .  I.iinr.  i.<  ill,    u  u.  i .  I  >iu    r.  .  I.  in. in. I 

.•in |v i.  es  supply,  experts  question  whethei  thi  area  will  su< 
eumb  to  further  conflict)  01  If  thi  groups  will  be  ablt  to 
pi  i, ,  full}  i.  -.,>l\,  ill,  ii  .liii.  reni 

Bui  historj  does  noi  suppori  watei  wai  theories(  says 
\i.ii,  ii  Brewster,  lenioi  offlcei  with  thi  United  Nations 
Department  ol  Economi<  and  Social  Affairs'  Division  fbi 
Sustainablt  Development  "Historical  evideno  shows  thai 
human  beings  hav<  generall)  demonstrated  a  willingness  to 
.  i  >.<i>,  i.i  i.  on  sharing  water,  even  between  nations  fighting 
,>\,  i  othei  political  issues  or,  fbi  thai  matter,  ovei  gold  and 
othei  pret  ious  resources,"  she  says 

l  li,  notion  of  water  becoming  the  next  oil,  simpl)  doi  sn'i 
lu>U  \\\c  \.w -     1 he  iw.'  are  verj  different  issues  We  know. 
i.m  example,  thai  oil  has  substitutes  Bui  there  is  no  substi 
tute  i.m  w.ik  i    \. ,  ess  to  safe  watei  is  widel)  recogni  ed  as  a 

bast<   hum. in  right 

i  Currently,  more  than  I  billion  people  la<  k  .«.  *  ess  to  safe 
drinking  watei    knothei  1,6  billion  people,  about  10  percent 
ol  the  worlds  population,  lack  access  to  bash  sanitation  "And 
we  are  noi  talking  about  taps  and  toilets  in  ever)  home,"  says 
Brewster,  who  spoke  at  w  Pis  Watei  Management  ( Challenges 
and  Solutions  conference  in  |une  tOO  I 

Indeed,  the  W brld  I  lealth  (  )rgani; ation  defines  adequate 
access  as  just  20  liters     five  gallons    pei  person  pel  day, 
within  one  Idlometei  walking  distance  ii>>m  the  home 

pare  iIhn  modest  requirement  to  typical  household  watei 

umption  in  the  United  States,  which  .n -craves    i  gallons 
pet  person  pet  il.n 

1  ,»m  year,  the  U.N.  launched  an  international  "W.ini 
decade,  calling  on  the  international  communirj  to 
brts  n>  make  safr  drinking  watei  and  sanitation 


n  nl.ihl,  i>> ,  \ ,  i  \  mi,    UN  officials  hopi  to  halvi  thi 

propon i  peopli  without  aci  ess  to  then  two  baiii 

Ii  bj   '"i  i 

Of  course,  it  would  b<  bettei  il  watei  supplies  were 

libit  in  ill.  in. i  pi.!. .   i  .1  sees  two  majoi  ways  to  i  isi 

ill,  water  shortagi  now,  and  ioIvi  it  in  thi  futun   "Ourati 
is  to  di  salinati  i<  av,  ati  i  to  luppli  mi  ni  thi  suppl}  ol  fn  ih 
water,   layiOlivei  "At  thi  same  time,  we're  working  to  bettei 
manage  existing  suppl} 

typically,  Olivei  notes,  industries  waste  80  percent  <>i 
Mi,  water  the]  usi    [burg*  its  customers  toward  increasingl) 
i  iii.  i<  in  watei  consumption,  Gl  public!}  recognizes  industrial 
clients,  vit  its  I  comagination  awards,  when  the}  achieve  con 
siderabli  ia>  ings  Ford  Motoi  ( Company,  fbi  instano  .  won  •> 
1005  i  i  omagination  award  I  'sing  - 1  <  .1  antifbaming  agent 
during  its  disi  hargc  pro<  ess.  Ford  reduced  watei  consump 
iumi  l>\  230,400  gallons  pei  \> ;ai  ai  its  Kenruckj  rruck  Plant 

in  I  uniw  ill, 

( ,1  has  also  plunged  into  desalination  tet  hnolog} 
i»i  swell  available  watei  through  reverse  osmosis  ( KO) 
I,-,  hnolog} 

RO  has  been  around  since  1959,  bui  the  polypropylene 
membranes  at  1 1  *  <.  -  heart  ol  the  process  have  rapidly  evolved 
M 1 1, mi:' 1 1  recent  acquisitions,  GE  Infrastructure  Watei  & 
Process  technologies  is  demonstrating  the  corporation's 
commitment  and  confidence  in  desalination  as  the  wave 
ol  the  future. 

i  (sing  reverse  osmosis,  high  pressure  pumps  push  seawa 
i,i  oi  brackish  watei  across  the  membranes,  which  remove 
contaminants  down  to  the  ioni<  and  molccul.u  levels     I  mm 
salts  and  sugars  to  bat  teria  and  \  iruses. 

rhough  hij'lm  etVe,  live      Rt  I  removes  more  than  99 
percent  oi  contaminants     the  technology's  spread  has  been 
hindered  b)  high  energ)  consumption  and  waste  watei  levels. 
"In  i lu-  ivpk.il  desalination  plant  today,"  ( Wivei  says,  "50  percent 
ol  operating  costs  go  i<>  the  energ}  it  takes  n>  pump  the  watei 
a<  ross  the  membranes  *  RO  recovers  onlj  5  to  15  percent  ol  the 
watei  entering  the  system 


1  6 


"As  the  technology  has  grown  more  robust, 
I  have  become  more  and  more  excited 
about  its  ability  to  help  solve  developing 
countries'  water  shortages." 


: 


For  now,  this  process  is  attractive  only  in  the  Middle 
East,  where  electricity  is  inexpensive.  A  GE-engineered  and 
-operated  RO  plant  in  Algeria,  for  instance,  slated  to  go 
online  in  2007,  will  supply  the  city  of  Algiers  with  25  per- 
cent of  its  water. 

While  GE  runs  plants  like  the  one  in  Algeria,  "We 
expect  to  accelerate  the  technology's  advancement  by  contin- 
ually leveraging  our  materials  science  expertise,"  Oliver  says. 

Ramesh  Rengarajan,  general  manager  of  GE  Global 
Technology,  works  on  desalination's  front  lines.  In  the  coming 
decade,  "desalination  processes  will  see  20  percent  greater 
efficiencies,  and  will  be  cost-efficient  even  for  energy-expen- 
sive regions,"  he  predicts.  "New  chemistries,  new  materials 
science,  and  new  molecular  structures  will  reduce  pressure 
requirements  for  RO  membranes."  Pumps,  too,  will  grow 
more  efficient,  while  reduced  friction  and  recaptured  pressure 
will  lower  necessary  energy  levels.  "The  emerging  membrane 
designs,  engineering  designs,  and  technologies  will  drive  sig- 
nificant energy  savings  and  reduce  the  waste  discharge.  This 
will  put  RO  technologies  ahead  of  traditional  methods  in 
use  today" 

For  DEKAs  little  black  box,  however,  energy  consump- 
tion is  not  the  issue.  The  water  purifier  processes  10  gallons 
of  water  an  hour  using  just  600  watts,  or  less  than  3  percent 
of  the  electricity  required  for  traditional  distillation. 

This  efficient  purifier  will  weigh  just  225  pounds  when 
it's  released,  so  that  a  couple  of  reasonably  strong  individuals 
should  be  able  to  haul  it  to  the  nearest  water  source.  It 
should  also  be  relatively  affordable  and  durable,  Kamen  says. 
DEKA  estimates  its  manufactured  cost  will  be  about  $1,000, 
while  preliminary  tests  indicate  a  five-year  life  in  the  field. 

"The  remaining  questions  are  social  and  political,"  says 
Kamen.  Also  electrical.  The  box,  though  no  energy  hog, 
needs  an  electrical  outlet  to  run.  This  fact  will  place  some 


- 


limitations  on  its  use  in  developing  countries,  although, 
according  to  DEKA,  many  poorer  nations  have  more  reliable 
and  widespread  electrical  infrastructure  than  they  do  clean 
water.  Kamen  remains  steadfast:  "We  need  to  get  this  into 
people's  hands." 

To  that  end,  says  Kamen,  "We've  met  individuals  who 
think  this  is  worth  a  shot.  We've  assembled  a  501(c)(3) 
organization,  and  we're  receiving  serious  support  from  some 
well-recognized  global  leaders.  We  expect  to  roll  out  this  new 
technology,  and  test  out  the  idea  by  summer  2006." 

While  their  approaches  differ,  both  Oliver  and  Kamen 
see  hope  for  the  world's  water  ills.  For  Kamen,  the  ability  to 
place  pure  water  technology  in  the  hands  of  individuals 
increases  by  the  day.  "As  the  technology  has  grown  more 
robust,  so  that  it  can  handle  any  type  of  water,"  he  says, 
"I  have  become  more  and  more  excited  about  its  ability  to 
help  solve  developing  countries'  water  shortages." 

"The  water  crisis  absolutely  can  be  solved,"  Oliver 
declares.  "In  the  four  years  I've  been  building  out  GE's  water 
scarcity  business,  I've  seen  awareness  of  the  issue  expand 
tremendously.  When  we  recognize  the  problem,  we  converge 
around  the  problem  to  solve  it.  Increasingly,  ways  to  reuse, 
reduce,  and  recycle  will  become  the  infrastructure,  rather 
than  an  afterthought." 

Brewster,  too,  looks  toward  the  day  when  such  responsi- 
bility is  the  norm.  The  current  crisis,  she  says,  "is  preventable, 
if  we  begin  now  to  respect  water  and  stop  wasting  it.  We 
need  to  place  basic  human  needs  at  the  top  of  the  priority 
list.  Then  we  can  accomplish  great  things."  D 


2.6  billion  people  lack  access 
to  basic  sanitation 

7  million  people  die  each  year 
from  water-borne  diseases 

1.5  billion  people  lack  access 
to  clean  water 


74  gallons  of  water  is  the  average  amount 
consumed  by  each  American,  per  day 

5  gallons  is  the  amount  of  water  a  person 
needs  per  day,  as  determined  by  WHO 

1    percent  of  Earth's  water  is  drinkable 


Worcester  Water 
Fact  Sheet 


Konstantin  "Dino"  Eliadi  '72 
('81  MS,  '87  MBA), 

Director  of  Water  &  Sewer  Operations, 
Worcester  Department  of  Public  Works 

Philip  Guerin  '82,  Director  of 
Environmental  Systems,  Worcester  DPW 


Responsible  for 

•  23  million  gallons  of  water  delivered 
daily  to  DPW  customers 

•  10  surface  reservoirs  (7-billion-gallon  capacity) 

•  41  square  miles  of  watershed  area 

•  50-million-gallon  daily  capacity  treatment  plant 

Bottle  or  Tap? 

•  Eliadi  refills  a  Poland  Springs  bottle  with 
Worcester  tap  water. 

•  Guerin  drinks  Worcester  water,  but  says, 
"My  neighbors  warn  me  not  to  touch  it, 
or  even  shower  in  it!" 


Who's  Watchin 


b^\ 


By  Joan  Killough-Miller 


Photography  by  Patrick  O'Connor 


In  an  old  brick  building  on  East  Worcester  Street,  just 
off  Shrewsbury  Street,  Phil  Guerin   82  and  his  boss,  Dino 
Eliadi  '72,  work  to  safeguard  Worcester's  drinking  water. 
They  do  daily  battle  against  the  usual  challenges:  microbial 
pathogens,  chemical  contaminants,  water  main  breaks  (old 
hat,  to  them),  and  the  occasional  phone  call  about  "funnv- 
looking"  water.  They  also  face  newer  pressures — from  real 
estate  developers,  environmentalists,  terrorists,  and  an 
increasingly  vigilant  public. 

Eliadi  calls  water  the  "blue  collar"  of  utilities.  "People 
don't  flinch  at  paying  S30,  or  even  S50,  a  month  for  cable 
TV.  But  water  is  their  most  important  utilirv.  Thev  think  vou 
just  turn  the  tap  and  it  comes  out,"  he  says.  "You  could  find 
ways  to  live  without  electricity,  and  surely  without  cable. 
Water,  there's  no  option.  You  have  to  have  water." 

Guerin,  a  buff  of  Worcester's  rich  industrial  heritage, 
says,  "The  roots  of  the  water  profession  are  on  the  construction 
end.  Back  then,  you  fixed  the  leaks  and  made  sure  the  water 
was  flowing.  Water  quality  and  public  education  weren't  on 
anyone's  agenda.  It  was  a  'silent  'industry'  The  less  people 
knew,  the  better." 

Today  the  picture  has  changed,  with  vigorous  daily  testing 
and  mandatory  reporting  to  consumers.  "Our  ability  to  find 
things  in  the  water  today  is  far  ahead  of  our  ability  to  under- 
stand what  those  things  may  mean  for  public  health,"  Guerin 
elaborates.  "The  big  challenge  for  water  systems  now  is  trving 
to  get  the  public  to  understand  that  just  because  we  detect 
1.5  parts  per  billion  of  this  or  that  doesn't  mean  it's  anything 
new — or  that  it's  causing  anyone  an}'  harm." 


Safe  Water 

"We  have  people  who  swear  that  back  in  the  1930s, 
Worcester  water  was  the  best  in  the  world,"  Guerin  says. 
"Looking  back,  we  know  that  there  were  certainly  bacteria, 
viruses,  and  parasites  swimming  in  it,  but  no  one  knew 
about  those  things." 

Those  who  bad-mouth  Worcester  water  today  may 
be  recalling  the  past,  when  excessive  bacterial  levels  made 
headlines,  and  local  water  was  banned  on  train  routes  and 
airplane  flights  out  of  Worcester.  Ever  since  the  city's  new 
treatment  plant  in  Holden  went  into  operation  in  1997, 
advanced  disinfection  processes  have  reduced  the  need  for 
chlorine  while  improving  protection  against  microorganisms. 
The  result  is  safer,  clearer,  better-tasting  water. 

"What  comes  out  of  the  tap  now  gets  compared  to 
bottled  water,"  says  Guerin.  "If  its  not  as  clear  as  Poland 
Springs,  we  hear  about  it." 

The  general  public,  Guerin  says,  has  high  expectations 
for  its  water.  "At  the  same  time,  people  don't  expect  that  they 
should  have  to  pay  for  it.  They  see  it  as  something  city  gov- 
ernment should  be  providing,"  he  says.  "The  reality  is,  it's  a 
very  fair  system:  You  use  it,  you  pay  for  it."  Local  residents 
pay  about  SO. 003  per  gallon  for  their  water,  or,  Guerin 
estimates,  approximately  S200  annually. 

Part  of  the  problem  is  that  people  don't  realize  what  it 
takes  for  water  to  get  from  a  reservoir  to  their  homes,  con- 
tends Eliadi,  citing  maintenance  and  upkeep  costs  from  the 
treatment  plant,  the  collection  of  samples  for  testing,  and  the 
repairing  of  main  breaks,  for  example.  "Yes,  the  end  result  is 


our  Water? 


Dino  Eliadi  '72  and  Phil  Guerin  '82 

(pictured  at  the  Holden  Water 

Treatment  Plant)  explain  what  it  takes  to  keep 

Worcester  water  drinkable,  plentiful,  and  affordable. 


Transformations    \      Spring   2006     29 


that  you  turn  the  spigot  and  you  have  water,  but  all  the  prep 
time  that  goes  into  it  should  not  be  taken  for  granted." 

The  industry  does  not  take  the  work  of  these  alumni  for 
granted.  In  December  2005,  the  Massachusetts  Water  Works 
Association  honored  Guerin  with  its  Special  Achievement 
Award,  and  Eliadi  with  the  Paul  F.  Howard  Award. 

Modern  demands,  antique  infrastructure 

Dating  back  to  1848,  Worcester's  public  water  system  now 
includes  500  miles  of  pipes  supplying  200,000  customers. 
"We  have  some  underground  pipes  from  the  1 870s  that  are 
still  in  use,"  Guerin  notes.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the  water 
department  converted  to  an  "enterprise"  system,  and  must 
now  finance  its  operations  solely  with  water  bill  revenues. 
"I  think  the  cost  of  water  is  becoming  a  big  issue,"  he  says, 
"not  so  much  the  consumer  price,  but  the  towns'  ability  to 
keep  their  water  systems  operating." 

Water  safety  begins  at  the  source,  and  suburban  sprawl 
can  pose  threats  to  Worcester's  remote  reservoirs.  "You  have 
developers  in  surrounding  towns  eyeing  the  watershed — 
which  they  see  as  empty  acreage — and  drooling,"  says  Eliadi. 
"We  have  to  compete  against  them,  either  through  conserva- 
tion restrictions  or  by  buying  the  land  outright.  Last  year  we 
spent  over  $2  million  to  buy  huge  tracts  of  land.  It's  money 
well  spent  for  us,  because  it  guarantees  nothing's  going  to  be 
built,  no  septic  systems  are  going  to  be  there,  and  it  prolongs 
the  purity  of  the  water.  Just  because  you  have  a  treatment 
plant  doesn't  mean  you  don't  need  some  buffer." 

Worcester  already  had  fences  and  No  Trespassing  signs 
in  place  well  before  the  passage  of  the  Bioterrorism  Act  of 
2002,  Guerin  notes,  and  new  security  measures  monitor  any 
irregularities.  (See  page  14  to  learn  about  two  alumni  involved 
in  a  start-up  venture  to  monitor  municipal  water  facilities.) 

Eliadi  is  nostalgic  for  the  good  old  days,  when  "you  only 
had  to  worn*  about  the  guy  who  used  to  fish  in  the  reservoirs, 
and  kick  him  out  of  there."  He  harks  back  to  a  time  when 
the  department  used  to  distribute  student  handouts  with 
detailed  infrastructure  maps  to  schoolchildren  who  came  in 
looking  for  help  with  homework  projects.  These  days, 
Worcester's  federally  mandated  vulnerability  assessment 
report  is  closely  guarded.  A  single  copy  was  hand  delivered 
to  the  EPA,  where  it  rests  in  a  locked  vault. 

Another  change  is  a  shortage  of  qualified  engineers  inter- 
ested in  safeguarding  the  local  water  supply  "Some  might  not 
see  it  as  a  high-profile,  exciting  way  to  make  a  living.  But  the 
problem  solving  we  do  is  critically  important  to  everyone's 
health  and  safety,  and  to  the  economy  of  the  city.  It  touches 
even'  aspect  of  everyone's  life,"  Guerin  says.  "The  interest- 
ing— and  difficult — part  is,  you  can't  be  in  the  pipes  to  see 
what's  going  on.  You've  got  to  collect  samples  and  data  to 
understand  what's  happening.  Once  you're  in  the  field, 
you  can  actually  see  where  there's  real  application  of  those 
equations  that  you  learned  at  WPL'    D 


There  are  millions  of  molecules 
in  our  water.  Which  ones  should 
we  worry  about? 

Inspired  by  a  breaking  news  story  in  the  early  1980s 
that  revealed  a  leukemia  cluster  in  Woburn,  Mass., 
Jo  Anne  Shatkin  '85  was  moved  to  help  people 
understand  how  environmental  threats  could  affect 
their  well  being.  Her  IQP  analyzed  the  quality  of  bot- 
tled water,  using  research  conducted  in  the  Worcester 
DPW  laboratory  of  then  recent  WPI  graduate  Phil 
Guerin  '82  (see  page  28). 

Shatkin's  commitment  to  public  safety  and  aware- 
ness continues  today  with  her  work  at  Watertown, 
Mass. -based  The  Cadmus  Group,  where  she  consults 
with  private  and  government  agencies  to  assess  the 
human  health  risks  of  environmental  contaminants. 
Much  of  her  time  is  spent  providing  technical  support 
for  the  EPA's  drinking  water  Contaminant  Candidate 
List  (CCL),  to  determine  which  contaminants  warrant 
further  study  for  possible  regulation.  As  an  adjunct 
professor  in  the  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies 
Division,  Shatkin  has  advised  student  project  work  to 
identify  health  hazards  in  the  Worcester  community. 


3  0     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


What  is  the  significance  of  the  CCL? 

We're  trying  to  identify,  and  narrow  the  universe  of,  poten- 
tial drinking  water  contaminants.  We  then  decide  which 
ones  are  the  most  important  for  the  EPA  to  invest  its 
resources  in.  The  chemical  universe  includes  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  manufactured  chemicals.  We  follow  a  similar 
process  for  biological  contaminants,  working  with  a  team 
of  expert  microbiologists  to  agree  upon  a  methodology  for 
deciding  how  to  effectively  prioritize  among  microorganisms. 

The  CCL  is  published  every  five  years.  It  directs  the  EPA's 
drinking  water  research  for  the  coming  years.  Every  five 
years  we  develop  a  new  list,  but  we  may  not  necessarily 
be  able  to  walk  away  from  the  prior  list.  It's  a  substantial 
commitment,  when  something  winds  up  on  the  CCL.  [The 
EPA  then  carries  out  studies  to  develop  analytical  methods 
for  detecting  the  contaminants,  determines  whether  they 
occur  in  drinking  water,  and  evaluates  treatment  technolo- 
gies to  remove  them  from  the  water.  —Ed.] 

What  is  risk  analysis/  and  how  do  you  use  it  to 
narrow  down  the  data? 

Risk  analysis  is  a  relatively  new  field  that  gathers  and 
analyzes  information  to  evaluate  how  things  behave  in  the 
environment,  and  their  potential  to  impact  our  health  or  our 


environmental  quality.  For  drinking  water,  we  look  to  see 
what  could  cause  adverse  health  effects  and  the  contami- 
nants that  have  the  potential  to  occur  in  water;  from  there, 
we  build  a  database  of  the  available  information.  Then 
we  come  up  with  criteria  to  prioritize  among  them.  We 
also  consult  a  range  of  experts  in  the  field,  to  compare 
the  results  and  evaluate  how  well  our  models  worked. 
Risk  assessment  is  a  tool  that  helps  frame  a  variety  of 
issues  for  environmental  decision  making,  not  just  for  drink- 
ing water.  It  can  be  applied  to  new  technologies,  such  as 
nanotechnology,  as  well  as  decisions  about  site  usage, 
such  as  brownfields,  and  biological  issues. 

What  are  some  emerging  issues  in  drinking 
water  safety? 

There  are  recent  developments,  for  instance  MTBE  (methyl 
tertiary-butyl  ether,  a  gasoline  additive  meant  to  replace 
lead),  which  is  not  highly  toxic,  but  is  very  mobile.  There 
are  naturally  occurring  substances  such  as  arsenic,  which 
is  a  carcinogen.  There's  quite  a  bit  of  arsenopyrite,  or 
"fool's  silver,"  in  New  England's  bedrock.  There  are  also 
localized  issues  related  to  the  region's  role  in  the  Industrial 
Revolution.  However,  when  we  compare  the  potential  for 
chemicals  versus  microbiological  contaminant  occurrence, 
pathogens  become  significant  concerns,  particularly  in 
developing  countries  where  water  is  less  adequately 
controlled. 

How  safe  is  our  drinking  water,  overall? 

I  think  people  worry  about  their  drinking  water  too  much. 
The  water  quality  in  the  United  States  is  high.  The  systems 
are  very  tightly  regulated.  Not  that  there  aren't  issues  in 
some  areas.  People  worry  about  tiny  levels  of  things  in  the 
environment,  when  there  are  big  issues  in  front  of  them  that 
they  could  do  something  about.  For  example,  they  might 
worry  about  the  one-in-a-million  risk  of  getting  cancer  from 
low-level  pesticides  in  their  water,  but  continue  to  smoke 
cigarettes.  Here  in  New  England,  our  water  sources  are 
local,  so  we  have  much  more  control  over  them  than  other 
regions  do. 

Do  you  drink  tap  water? 

I  do.  Millions  of  dollars  are  spent  to  treat  it.  Why  should  I 
buy  it  and  haul  it  home  from  the  grocery  store?  I  do  have 
a  filter  on  my  tap,  to  filter  out  lead,  which  can  come  from 
the  pipes.  Municipal  drinking  water  is  more  regulated 
than  bottled  water.  I'm  never  afraid  to  drink  tap  water. 
Sometimes  it  doesn't  taste  great,  because  they  put  chlorine 
in  it,  but  in  Worcester,  where  there's  ozone  treatment,  the 
quality  is  excellent. 


Transformations    \   Spring  2006     31 


Water-Stressed  Countries 

By  Joanne  Silver 

Water  in  many  parts  of  the  world  has  become  a  fragile  commodity. 

The  work  of  Philip  Giantris  '65  addresses  the  global  need  for 

good,  clean,  accessible  water  for  all. 


No  wastewater  is  too  murky,  no  infrastructure  too 
fragile,  and  no  bureaucracy  too  clogged  for  Philip  Giantris  to 
seek  a  solution.  He  has  led  training  programs  in  Indonesia  on 
water,  wastewater,  and  solid  waste  management.  In  Egypt,  he 
conducted  an  assessment  of  the  Cairo  General  Organization 
for  Sanitary  Drainage.  From  Kosovo  and  Montenegro  to 
Jordan  and  South  Africa,  he  has  aided  governments  and 
utilities  in  improving  water  systems.  At  the  Water  Africa  '99 
conference,  held  in  Cairo,  Giantris  spoke  about  Water  for  All, 
South  Africa's  program  to  increase  private  sector  participation 
in  the  delivery  of  water  supply  and  sanitation  services. 
Despite  the  decidedly  unglamorous  title,  the  subject  gets  to 
the  heart  of  a  situation  that  is  approaching  crisis  proportions 
throughout  the  globe.  It  has  been  estimated  that,  for  a  billion 
people,  this  essential  resource  is  compromised — either 
unavailable  or  filthy  enough  to  cause  serious  illness. 

"On  today's  course,"  Giantris  explains,  "we  are  headed 
for  some  major  water-based  catastrophes  in  the  underdevel- 
oped and  developing  world.  We  may  see  incidents  of  water 
system  failures  that  will  cause  deaths  in  the  tens  of  thousands. 
The  movement  of  populations  from  rural  to  urban  or  peri- 
urban  areas  in  the  developing  world  continues  at  a  rate  that 
is  not  understood  in  the  Western  or  developed  world.  The 


estimates  are  one  million  people  per  week.  It  is  straining 
water  supply  systems  around  the  world,  and  at  the  current 
rate  of  capital  investment  is  a  recipe  for  disaster." 

Belief  in  the  global  necessity  for  good,  clean,  accessible 
water  motivates  Giantris  in  the  work  he  does.  During  the  past 
four  decades,  he  has  combined  his  passion  for  water  with  what 
he  learned  at  WPI  and  Boston  University,  where  he  earned 
his  M.B.A.,  to  tackle  a  wide  range  of  projects.  Numerous 
American  municipalities,  as  well  as  a  dozen  countries  scat- 
tered over  four  continents,  have  benefited  from  his  expertise. 
Through  his  company — Valu  Add,  a  small  consulting  practice 
based  in  Tirana,  Albania,  concentrated  on  the  water  supply 
and  wastewater  sector  in  developing  countries — Giantris  is 
keeping  his  promise  to  his  mother  to  give  back  to  his  family's 
native  land.  And  he  loves  what  he  does.  "It  is  not  easy,  but  it 
is  a  dream  job,"  the  first-generation  Albanian  American  says. 

Giantris  has  always  felt  a  connection  to  water.  Growing 
up  around  the  corner  from  the  Worcester  YMCA,  he  learned 
to  swim  at  the  age  of  8,  and  competed  in  swimming  through 
his  college  years.  At  WPI,  he  worked  at  the  Alden  Research 
Laboratory  in  Holden  (see  page  48)\  although  the  majority  of 
projects  there  involved  water,  Giantris  recalls  one  particular 
experiment  in  which  he  tested  two  rectangular  blocks  of 


32     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


"^m   v4^\ 


ur,  Hysni  Shamata,  tackles  the  social  and  political  aspects  of  water  manage 

Through  his  consulting  firm,  Giantris,  seen  here  in  Tirana's  Skanderbeg  Square, 
gives  back  to  his  family's  native  country  of  Albania. 


wood  in  a  wind  tunnel  to  simulate  the  effect  of  wind  on  the 
planned  Twin  Towers  in  Manhattan.  Even  during  his  two- 
year  stint  in  the  Army,  he  was  never  far  from  water.  In 
Vietnam,  he  served  as  a  Port  Construction  officer,  using  some 
of  the  skills  he  had  gained  at  WPI  as  a  civil/sanitary  engineer- 
ing major.  Twenty  years  at  the  Wakefield,  Mass-based  water 
and  wastewater  firm  of  Metcalf  &  Eddy  provided  him  with 
ample  opportunities  to  explore  a  field  as  it  was  being  trans- 
formed by  new  federal  regulations.  Now,  as  a  resident  of  an 
oceanfront  home  on  Southport  Island,  Maine,  Giantris  and 
his  wife  often  find  themselves  mesmerized  by  the  view.  "As 
crazy  as  it  sounds,  my  wife  and  I  are  like  children,  who,  every 
day,  see  the  ocean  as  if  for  the  first  time,"  he  says. 

Water  never  represented  a  mere  technical  challenge  for 
Giantris.  He  has  always  focused  on  the  people  who  are  affected 
by  the  issues  he  addresses.  "Overall,"  he  says,  "we  need  to  better 
protect  our  resources  and  manage  the  demand  for  water  in  a 
more  enlightened  and  informed  way.  Through  our  continuing 
disregard  for  the  environment,  we  constantly  strain  and  pollute 
our  water  resources  and  waste  water,  causing  supplies  to  appear 
to  be  inadequate.  It  is  a  gift  from  God,  but  it  is  not  free." 

When  Giantris  steps  in  to  assist  with  water  issues,  he 
must  be  fluid  in  his  approach.  The  awe  that  he  feels  in  the 


face  of  the  ocean  becomes  tempered  by  pragmatic  strategies, 
as  he  draws  upon  both  his  engineering  experience  and  his 
business  acumen.  He  says,  "It  is  not  enough  today,  in  managing 
public  water  supply  and  wastewater  infrastructure,  to  be  tech- 
nically accurate  and  operationally  reliable.  Water  supply  and 
wastewater  utilities  must  also  be  commercially  competitive 
and  financially  self-sustaining." 

How  does  Giantris  decide  what  approach  to  take?  "At 
the  simple  level,  it  is  training,"  he  responds.  "But  water  is 
much  more  complex  than  that,  and  therefore  it  requires  a 
philosophical  change  in  the  way  governments  address  this 
essential  public  service.  It  is  important,  when  you  take  on  an 
assignment,  to  quickly  try  to  figure  out  who  or  what  is  really 
driving  this  interest.  Who  are  the  stakeholders,  and  what  do 
they  want  out  of  it?" 

Then  the  hard  work  can  begin.  Business  plans  can  be 
developed,  manuals  written,  water  analyzed  and  accounted 
for,  regulations  reviewed,  contracts  prepared.  The  possibilities 
are  extensive,  the  obstacles  even  more  so.  Philip  Giantris 
remains  upbeat.  In  the  midst  of  his  work  in  the  Balkans,  he 
thinks  back  40  years  and  says,  "I  survived  WPI  academically 
through  persistence — not  necessarily  brains — and  it  continues 
to  serve  me  well  here  in  Albania."  D 


Transformation  s    \    Spring  2006     33 


AlumniConnections 


Morgan  ReeS  '61  became  the  62nd  president 
of  the  Alumni  Association  during  Reunion  weekend  last 
June.  He  and  his  wife,  Janet,  reside  in  Florida  and  Ohio. 
An  active  alumnus,  Mo  Rees  has  served  as  a  member  of 
his  Class  Board  of  Directors  and  the  President's  Advisory 
Council,  as  chair  of  his  40th  Reunion  Class  Gift  Commit- 
tee, and  as  a  Reunion  volunteer.  He  shares  his  thoughts 
as  Association  president: 

What  are  your  goals  for  the  coming  year? 

Yolunteerism  or  increasing  alumni  involvement  with  WTI 
is  one  of  our  two  principal  objectives.  During  recent  meet- 
ings or  the  Class  Boards  of  Directors  meeting  and  the 
Alumni  Leadership  Council,  we  discussed  different  ways  to 
increase  alumni  involvement.  A  critical  part  of  this  effort  is 
reestablishing  an  extensive  Regional  Club  Program.  Under 
the  leadership  of  Joe  Ferrantino  '67  and  Roger  Lavallee  '73, 
the  Hartford-Springfield  Club  is  up  and  running,  and 
groundwork  for  other  clubs  is  under  way  in  New  York, 
Washington,  and  southern  New  Hampshire.  We  hope  to  add 
several  clubs  each  year.  Other  volunteer  opportunities  include 
participating  in  class  activities  and  GOLD  (Graduates  of  the 
Last  Decade)  events,  or  becoming  an  Alumni  Ambassador  to 
represent  WTI  at  a  high  school  or  college  fair.  In  the  coming 
months,  the  Alumni  Association  Cabinet  will  publish  a  list  of 
other  specific  volunteer  opportunities. 

Tell  me  about  the  Regional  Club  program. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  regional  events  have  been  sponsored 
in  the  Boston  area.  Cape  Cod,  Hartford,  Providence,  New 
York  City.  Washington,  D.C..  California,  and  Florida.  Events 
have  focused  on  discussions  with  WTI  faculty,  theater  out- 
ings, and  sporting  activities.  In  connection  with  revitalizing 
the  Hartford-Springfield  club,  Joe  and  Roger  and  their  com- 
mittee created  a  template  for  how  to  launch  a  Regional  Club. 
Efforts  will  focus  on  four  regional  clubs  in  2006  to  allow  us 
to  refine  the  operating  model.  Anyone  looking  to  help  with 
these  activities  should  contact  the  Alumni  Office.  WAe  wel- 
come your  ideas  on  events  and  target  cities. 

What's  your  second  principal  objective? 

Career  development,  support,  and  mentoring  is  an  important 
initiative  launched  by  the  Alumni  Association  within  the  last 
two  years.  Led  by  Bill  Krein  "62,  we  are  working  to  strengthen 
this  program,  which  links  alumni  seeking  new  employment 
with  alumni  who  have  employment  opportunities.  It  also 


matches  those  making  a  career 
change  with  other  alums  who  can 
provide  career  mentoring  on  a 
confidential,  one-to-one  basis.  Job 
listings  are  now  posted  in  The  Bridge,  the  monthly  alumni 
e-newsletter.  The  response  to  the  Career  Development  Pro- 
gram has  been  extremely  positive  and  we  have  opportunities 
for  many  more  alumni  to  assist  us  with  organization  and 
implementation. 

How  can  alumni  keep  up  to  date  on  Association 
events? 

There  are  a  number  of  ways.  The  Alumni  Association  Web 
site,  alumni.wpi.edu,  is  the  best  single  source  of  information 
on  alumni  activities.  It  contains  information  on  events, 
reunions,  class  Web  sites,  the  organization  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  and  more.  I  encourage  folks  to  bookmark  the 
site  and  visit  it  often.  The  Bridge,  the  monthly  alumni  e- 
newsletter,  provides  an  ongoing  link  to  WPI  for  alumni  and 
friends  and  helps  to  keep  them  informed  about  association 
activities  as  well  as  news  and  events  on  campus.  New  sub- 
scribers may  sign  up  for  The  Bridge  at  wpi.edu/+bridge. 
Right  now,  fewer  than  4,000  alumni  receive  this  e-newsletter. 
Id  like  to  set  a  goal  to  increase  that  to  6,000  by  the  end  of 
2006.  We  also  believe  in  continuous  improvement  and  strive 
to  provide  relevant  information  to  our  alumni.  We  have  post- 
ed a  survey  at  alumni.wpi.edu/News/Bridge/Survey  that 
seeks  feedback  on  how  we  communicate.  The  survey  covers 
The  Bridge  and  other  forms  of  electronic  communication. 

How  will  you  define  the  success  of  your  presidency? 

We  can  define  success  by  continuing  the  culture  of  service 
to  WTI  and  to  all  alumni  that  has  characterized  the  Alumni 
Association  leadership  for  many  years.  In  my  relatively 
brief  time  as  an  Association  officer,  I  have  been  impressed 
with  the  quality  and  quantity  of  effort  and  dedication  to 
WTI  by  the  Association  officers,  cabinet  members,  and  other 
volunteers.  As  long  as  this  culture  continues,  the  Association 
will  thrive.  In  recognition  of  this  dedicated  service,  we  will 
highlight  the  contributions  of  various  cabinet  members  in 
forthcoming  issues  of  The  Bridge.  We  can  also  define  success 
by  achieving  the  principal  goals  I  described  earlier.  I  believe 
these  two  initiatives  will  go  a  long  way  toward  providing 
valuable  services  to  all  alumni  and  continuing  the  legacy  of 
excellence  at  WTI. 

For  more  information  on  the  programs  and  activities  listed 
contact  ahimni-office(&wpi.edu  or  508-831-5600. 


3A     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


Happy  Returns 

Former  Director  of  Alumni  Relations  Beth  Howland  returned  to 
WPI  in  February  as  assistant  vice  president  for  alumni  relations 
and  annual  giving.  She  joined  WPI  as  a  senior  development  officer 
^^^^  in  1998,  and  was  promoted  to  director 

of  alumni  relations  in  2002.  In  2004, 
^  she  was  recruited  to  Amherst  College 

V*  ■  as  associate  director  of  major  gifts. 


Howland's  new  role  is  a  merger  of  two 
positions,  the  previous  directorships  of 
alumni  relations  and  of  annual  giving. 
She  holds  an  associate's  degree  in 


medical  technology  and  a  bachelor's  degree  in  health  education 
from  the  University  of  Vermont  and  a  master's  in  professional 
higher  education  administration  from  the  University  of  Connecticut. 

"I  am  so  pleased  to  be  back  at  WPI.  I  look  forward  to  reconnecting 
with  our  alumni  as  we  continue  to  build  and  strengthen  our  programs. 
This  is  a  unique  community  of  which  I  am  proud  to  be  a  part." 

Howland  and  her  husband,  David  Gouin,  live  in  Brimfield,  Mass., 
with  their  beloved  chocolate  lab,  Hershey. 


"I  am  so  pleased  to  be  back  at  WPI.  I  look  forward 

to  reconnecting  with  our  alumni  as  we  continue  to 

build  and  strengthen  our  programs." 

—  Beth  Howland 


Spotlight  on  Alumni  Volunteers 

Paula  (Fragassi)  Delaney  '75  chairs  the  Lifelong  Learning 
Division  of  the  Alumni  Association  Cabinet.  The  division's  mission  is 
to  provide  traditional  and  nontraditional  learning  opportunities  for 
alumni  at  all  stages  of  life.  "My  goal  is  to  work  with  the  other 
divisions,  particularly  the  Regional  Clubs,  to  add  an  educational 
component  to  programs  and  activities,"  she  says. 

Paula's  career  has  kept  her  close  to  the  educational  environment, 
working  in  WPI's  Computing  and  Communications  Center,  and  at 
several  area  colleges.  She  recently  became  acting  registrar  at  WPI. 

"As  students,  what  we  did  here  at  WPI  was  learn  how  to  learn," 
says  Paula.  "Now  we  need  to  provide  opportunities  for  continued 
learning  experiences  for  our  alumni."  Topics  can  range  from 
career  development  and  graduate  education,  to  investment 
management  and  retirement  planning.  The  Alumni  College 
program  at  Reunion  offers  updates  on  the  research  specialties  of 
the  WPI  faculty.  The  division  also  supports  programs  external  to 
WPI,  such  as  the  RE-SEED  program,  which  recruits  and  trains 
alumni  to  bring  their  science  and  technology  skills  into  middle 
school  classrooms  to  assist  teachers. 


One  of  Paula's  priorities  is  to 
find  ways  to  leverage  WPI's 
information  technology  resources 
to  facilitate  the  work  of  the  Alumni 
Association.  She  is  exploring 
existing  software  packages  to 
create  an  online  community 
for  alumni  volunteers,  where 
committee  members  can  commu- 
nicate easily  and  share  documents.  Web  and  telephone 
conferencing  are  other  technologies  that  can  empower  alumni 
groups  who  may  be  scattered  around  the  country. 

New  volunteers  and  fresh  ideas  are  always  welcome.  Contact 
Paula  at  pdelaney@wpi.edu,  or  go  to  alumni.wpi.edu  and  click 
on  the  Careers  link  to  learn  more  about  Lifelong  Learning 
opportunities. 


"My  goal  is  to  work  with  the  other  divisions,  particularly 
the  Regional  Clubs,  to  add  an  educational  component 

to  programs  and  activities." 

—  Paula  (Fregassi)  Delaney  '75 


Transformations    \   Spring  2  006     3  5 


Class  Notes 


Staying  Connected  with  Old  Friends 

Material  for  Class  Notes  comes  from  newspaper  and  magazine  clippings,  press  releases, 
and  information  supplied  by  alumni.  Due  to  production  schedules,  some  notes  may  be  out 
of  date  at  publication,  but  may  be  updated  in  future  issues.  Please  allow  up  to  6  months  for 
your  news  to  appear  in  print.  Submit  your  Class  Note  at  www.wpi.edu/+Transformations 
or  alumni-editor@wpi.edu.  You  may  fax  it  to  508-831-5820,  or  mail  it  to  Alumni  Editor, 
Transformations,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 


1950s 


Correction:  The  Duryea  race  car  designed 
by  the  grandfather  of  Clayton  Roberts  '50 

was  built  in  1892,  not  1842  as  we  stated  in 
his  class  note.  Thanks  to  Bob  Martin  '39 
for  pointing  out  the  error,  and  for  informing 
us  that  the  late  Richard  Messinger  '40 

worked  with  Frank  Duryea  to  restore  one  of 
the  early  cars  for  a  50th  anniversary  celebra- 
tion. 

Paul  Snyder  '53  was  awarded  the  2005 
Environmental  Partnership  Award  by  the 
Northeast  Pennsylvania  Environmental 
Partnership.  He  has  taken  on  numerous  roles 
in  retirement,  including  board  member  of 
the  Tobyhanna  Creek/Tunkhannock  Creek 
Watershed  Association,  volunteer  coordina- 
tor of  the  Stream  Watch  Program,  and  mon- 
itoring coordinator  for  the  Northeast  office 
of  The  Nature  Conservancy.  Gov.  Edward 
G.  Rendell  wrote  to  Paul,  "You  have  proven 
the  tremendous  impact  that  one  person  can 
have  on  the  world,  and  I  thank  you  for  help- 
ing us  keep  Pennsylvania  beautiful  for  gener- 
ations to  come." 

1960s 

Richard  Brewster  '60 

represented  Mercy  Ships 
as  photographer  at  the 
inauguration  of  Liberian 
President  Ellen  Johnson- 
Sirleaf.  He  serves  aboard 
the  Mercy  Ships  hospital 
vessel  Anastasis,  along  with  his  wife,  Ellen. 
They  recently  celebrated  their  40th  wedding 
anniversary  on  shipboard,  by  purchasing  ice 
cream  for  the  almost  400-member  crew.  He 
has  also  coordinated  service  projects  with  his 
local  Rotary  Club,  bringing  500  wheelchairs 
to  needy  people  in  Sierra  Leone,  visiting 


3  6     Transformations    \    Spring  2006 


Rotary  Clubs  all  over  Scotland  to  drum  up 
support  for  the  planned  visit  of  the  Anastasis 
to  Dundee,  and  raising  funds  for  new  water 
wells  in  Monrovia,  Liberia.  "Our  three 
daughters  have  blessed  us  with  five  grand- 
children," he  writes.  "Retirement  has  been 
the  most  exciting  and  fulfilling  time  of  my 
life!" 

Jesse  Erlich  '62,  a  partner  with  the  Boston 
law  firm  Perkins  Smith  &C  Cohen,  was 
ranked  among  the  top  5  percent  of 
Massachusetts  "Super  Lawyers"  for  the  sec- 
ond year  in  a  row.  The  listings  are  published 
annually  in  a  supplement  to  Boston 
Magazine.  Jesse,  a  specialist  in  intellectual 
property,  is  a  former  president  of  the  Boston 
Patent  Law  Association  and  an  appointee  to 
the  United  States-Israel  Science  and 
Technology  Commission  Task  Force.  He  also 
serves  on  the  board  of  the  National  Defense 
Industrial  Association's  New  England 
Chapter  and  the  advisory  council  of  the 
National  Institute  of  Justice.  This  year  Jesse 
and  his  wife,  Laura,  became  grandparents. 
Al  LaPrade  '66  is  chief  engineer  for  the 
Mount  Washington  Cog  Railway.  His  work 
was  detailed  in  a  recent  story  in  Rail/an  & 
Railroad  magazine. 

Robert  Sinuc  '66  joined  Cyclics  Corp.  as 
vice  president  of  manufacturing.  He  will 
direct  manufacturing  in  Germany  and  lead 
efforts  to  site  future  plants. 

Pete  Picard  '67  retired  from  a  32-year  career 
with  the  Federal  Highway  Administration  in 
1998.  He  then  served  as  executive  director  of 
the  Nebraska  Concrete  Paving  Association. 
He  retired  in  2001  and  moved  back  to  New 
England.  "I'm  now  doing  a  few  fun  retire- 
ment tasks  and  some  consulting,  but  prima- 
rily assisting  my  wife,  Nancy,  with  her  in- 
home  antiques  and  collectibles  business," 
Pete  writes. 


Submit  an  Item  for  Class  Notes 

Vc*  (cft'Nc*  h*, '<ioi  named*  S*mt  old  Wiir  T*ll  in  » l»f»  l*jpr*r*-nf  t,  >ct«  ■ 
Pica*  mcludc  \<nn  fDuv'i  hill  um  *  ben  iffting  aWit  «  «Mm*  «  Nrti  « 


Pit,. 


■..  dB| 


Pkl»r»lt!Wl»ifc>ou1c*ii  »h>nrtiCTilu»a[itwW.>f>«untl!foT|xiMici!Mi  f 
.1— «*  ft— ■  —»  t»  ~— ilwl  *.  .h«i».^ln^iff  »pi  »ti  Piml,  a  link*  it 

WPI  lncUtiJ«ncRi»*itt.mfMci  MAOIMSa 
Pk-ix  ■fcnnrv  o*h  (ktwt  m  flw  phuu  \l*c  i  note  mi  rhc  h*i  if  >nu  wcwld  l*r  f 
miKimJ  phrno  returned  jfttr  puMvatna 


John  Trudeau  '68  joined  the  University  of 
California  Santa  Cruz  Extension  as  director 
of  Engineering  and  Technology/Business  and  I 
Management  Programs.  His  business  devel 
opment  experience  includes  positions  at 
Hewlett-Packard  and  Apple  Computer. 


1970s 


William  Coblenz  '70  married  Randi  Maria 
Cohen  on  Sept.  18,  2005.  He  works  for 
DARPA  in  Arlington,  Mass. 

Jack  Keenan  '70  was  elected  senior  vice 
president  of  generation  and  chief  nuclear 
officer  for  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Co.  in 
San  Francisco. 

Peter  Rado  '70  was  promoted  to  vice  presi- 
dent of  worldwide  operations  and  quality  at 
Silicon  Image  in  Sunnyvale,  Calif. 

Phil  Sharry  '71  joined  Xenon  Corp.  as  vice 
president,  worldwide  sales  and  marketing. 
Edward  D'Alba  '73  was  honored  for  his 
work  with  the  Chamounix  Mansion 
International  Youth  Hostel,  located  in 
Philadelphia's  Fairmount  Park.  D'Alba,  presi 
dent  and  CEO  of  Urban  Engineers,  has  beenr 
active  in  local  conservancy  issues. 
Norton  Bonaparte  '75  was  elected  president 
of  the  New  Jersey  Municipal  Management 
Association.  He  continues  as  city  administra- 
tor of  Plainfield,  N.J. 
Robert  Donle  '75  was  profiled  in  Hawaii 
Business  magazine's  list  of  leading  executives. 
The  vice  president  of  operations  for  Nordic 
Construction  Ltd.,  he  served  as  project  man- 
ager for  the  state's  tallest  building,  the  First 
Hawaiian  Center. 


Class  Notes 


Raymond  Houle  '76  married  Debra 
Bessette  on  Aug.  13,  2005.  He  is  vice  presi- 
dent of  H.  B.  Precision  Products. 

Tom  McAloon  '76  is  principal  consultant 
for  PA  Consulting  Group  of  Washington, 
D.C.  He  is  working  in  Tbilisi,  Georgia  (a 
former  USSR  republic),  for  the  Georgian 
United  Electric  Distribution  Company, 
organizing  and  managing  its  wholesale  and 
retail  metering  installation  programs.  Tom 
started  working  overseas  in  1994  in  the 
humanitarian  relief  and  international  devel- 
opment sectors,  after  10  years  as  chief  engi- 
neer of  Pennichuck  Water  Works  in  Nashua, 
N.H.  He  and  his  wife  of  21  years,  Beverly, 
have  also  lived  and  worked  in  Azerbaijan, 
Kosovo,  Afghanistan,  and  Iraq. 

Mike  Ahern  '78  was  recently  promoted  to 
vice  president,  Utility  Group,  at  Northeast 
Utilities  in  Hartford,  Conn.  His  new  role 
includes  responsibility  for  distribution  engi- 
neering, IT,  customer  services  integration, 
training,  revenue  stream  operations,  corpo- 
rate transportation,  and  emergency  prepared- 
ness. 

William  Alexander  '78  founded  Precision 
Machine  Tools  in  2002. 

Robert  Brown  '78  was  inducted  into  the 
Ben  Franklin  Society  of  PIA/GATF,  a  new 
group  formed  by  the  merger  of  two  separate 
societies  of  the  Printing  Industries  of 
America  and  the  Graphic  Arts  Technical 
Foundation.  Brown  is  CEO  of  Goss 
International. 

Roland  Roy  '79  works  for  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Power  Systems  as  regional  director  of  after- 
market  sales.  He  lives  in  Cheshire,  Conn., 
where  he  has  been  active  on  the  environ- 
mental commission. 


1980 


Gareth  Kucinkas  and  his  wife,  Deborah, 
teach  math  and  science  in  the  Baccalaureate 
Diploma  Programme  of  the  College  Alpine 
International  Beau  Soleil  in  Villars-sur- 
Ollon,  Switzerland,  where  they  live  with 
their  son,  Asa.  "While  the  teaching  is  a  won- 
derful challenge,"  he  writes,  "the  real  fun  is 
in  managing  a  dormitory  of  20  boys  and 
participating  in  all  the  activities  and  adven- 
tures available  at  this  type  of  school."  Gareth 
recently  returned  from  Tanzania  and  Kenya, 
where  a  group  of  92  students,  faculty,  and 
alumni  climbed  Kilimanjaro. 


th 


n  ine 

Public  Eye 


The  New  York  Times  Sunday  magazine  featured 
an  article  on  the  career  of  Bernie  Tetreault  '60,  who 
has  spearheaded  programs  for  affordable  housing. 
A  veteran  of  the  Montgomery,  Md.,  and  District  of 
Columbia  housing  authorities,  and  founder  of  the 
Innovative  Housing  Institute,  Tetreault  was  praised  as  "an  accomplished  creator  of  homes  for 
the  poor,"  who,  unlike  other  housing  advocates,  doesn't  "wax  Utopian,"  but  "grounds  his 
conversations  in  hard  numbers  and  terse  sentences."  ...  Dave  Emery  '70  threw  his  hat  back 
into  the  ring  for  Maine's  2006  gubernatorial  election,  after  a  fellow  Republican 
candidate  withdrew.  He  is  a  former  state  legislator  and  U.S.  representative  ...  Maryann 
(Bagdis)  Goebel  '73,  chief  information  officer  for  GM,  was  named  one  of  100  Leading 
Women  in  the  North  American  Auto  Industry  by  Automotive  News  ...  National  Institute 
of  Aerospace  president  Robert  Lindberg  '74  was  interviewed  by  Aerospace  America  on 
the  future  of  NASA  programs,  new  space  technologies,  and  graduate  education  ...  Gregory 
Koss  '78,  CEO  of  Savaje  Technologies,  was  profiled  in  Mass  High  Tech  recently  ...  Bob 
Hart  '79  was  featured  in  a  Chicago  Tribune  article  on  the  career  benefits  of  an  MBA 
degree.  After  graduating  from  the  business  program  at  UCLA,  Hart  is  senior  managing 
director  of  Kennedy  Wilson  Inc.,  an  international  real  estate  and  investment  firm  based  in 
Beverly  Hills,  Calif.  ...  the  Providence  Journal  celebrated  Noah  Forden  '90  for  his 
design  contributions  on  the  Stardust  space  capsule,  which  recently  returned  to  Earth  bearing 
samples  from  Comet  Wild  2  ...  Firesafety  expert  Glenn  Corbett  '91  (MS  FPE)  was  quoted  in 
the  Christian  Science  Monitor  on  improving  emergency  exits  from  older  high-rise 
buildings  ...  the  Boston  Globe  Sunday  magazine  featured  Jay  Silva  '91  with  his  home 
wind  turbine,  which  he  had  installed  on  the  roof  of  his  Scituate,  Mass.,  home. 


Changing  Our  World 

Judy  Nitsch  '75,  president  of  Judith  Nitsch  Engineering 
Inc.  and  WPI  trustee,  is  featured  in  the  new  book 
Changing  Our  World:  True  Stories  of  Women  Engineers, 
written  by  Sybil  Hatch  and  published  by  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers  (ASCE).  The  book,  launched 
during  Engineers  Week  2006  at  the  National  Press  Club 
in  Washington,  D.C,  is  the  first  product  of  the 
Extraordinary  Women  Engineers  Project  Coalition 
(www.engineeringwomen.org). 

Changing  Our  World  documents  the  true  stories  of  238 
inspirational  women  engineers.  Nitsch's  section  describes 
how  engineers  at  her  firm  work  to  make  the  environment 
better  through  ecohydrology,  which  allows  land  to  absorb 
rainwater  more  naturally.  In  addition  to  serving  as  a  men- 
tor to  the  female  engineers  in  her  firm,  Judy  sponsors  an 
annual  "Introduce  a  Girl  to  Engineering  Day,"  and  often 
speaks  to  girls  about  her  career. 

"Although  things  continue  to  improve,  the  underrepre- 
sentation  of  women  in  engineering  fields  is  an  issue  that 
needs  to  be  addressed,"  Nitsch  says.  "By  encouraging 
more  young  women  to  pursue  careers  in  this  industry,  the 
world  of  engineering  can  only  benefit.  I  love  being  able  to  guide  young  women  toward  a 
career  that  combines  creativity  and  science,  that  offers  excitement  and  stability,  and  that 
has  brought  me  a  level  of  fulfillment  that  many  only  dream  of." 


Transformations    \    Spring  2006     37 


otes 


Bookshelf 


Recent  and  new  publications  by  WPI  alumni,  faculty,  staff 

History  Makers  in  Their  Own  Words:  Notable  Americans  tell 
the  story  of  their  life  and  times 

by  David  K.  Weiner  '48    PublishAmerica 


HISTORY  MM 

In  Their  Own  1 


Weiner  explores  the  life  and  times  of  three  important  figures  in 
American  history:  John  Alden,  King  Philip,  and  Paul  Revere,  with 
fictionalized  first-person  accounts  of  the  Mayflower  crossing,  the 
Battle  of  Lexington,  and  other  historic  events.  Instead  of  the  usually 
tedious  facts  and  dates,  these  "autobiographies"  present  their  stories 
in  an  interesting  and  easy-to-read  manner.  Weiner,  a  decorated 
veteran  of  the  44th  Infantry  Division  and  former  design  engineer, 
took  up  creative  writing  and  the  study  of  history  and  genealogy  in 
retirement.  He  is  a  published  poet  and  the  author  of  short  stories  and 
children's  books. 


Southern  New  England's  Future  Thirst: 
A  Central  Lakes  Region  Solution 

by  Thomas  Baron  '64    RoseDog  Books 


SOUTHERN 
NEW  ENGLAND'S 
FUTURE  THIRST 


THOMAS  5.  BARON,  PE/CE 


Could  Massachusetts's  Quabbin  Reservoir  be  built  today?  Could 
it  provide  a  feasible  model  for  addressing  the  water  supply  and 
quality  issue  that  the  region  faces?  Thomas  Baron,  a  former  military 
engineer  and  the  retired  director  of  operations  for  Boston's 
MDC/MWRA,  set  out  to  explore  these  questions.  Rather  than 
looking  at  solutions  that  have  succeeded  in  the  past,  he  advocates 
farsighted  regional  planning  to  prevent  conflict  and  competition  over 
limited  resources.  By  sharing  in  the  cooperative  development  of 
larger  reservoirs,  he  says,  the  Southern  New  England  region  can 
realize  lower  costs,  greater  efficiency,  and  environmental  gains. 


For  My  Lady's  Honor 

by  Sharon  (Cottrell)  Schulze  '80    Harlequin  Historical 


Schulze  recently  brought  to  press  the  seventh  installment  of  her 
medieval  romance  series,  "The  I'Eau  Clair  Chronicles,"  which  is 
set  in  the  Welsh  Marches  in  the  year  1222.  Strong-willed  Lady 
Alys  Delamare  yearns  for  a  life  of  her  own  choosing— which 
includes  the  handsome  (but  landless)  knight  Sir  Padrig  ap  Huw. 
Schulze,  who  was  profiled  in  the  WPI  Wire  and  has  spoken  on 
campus  about  writing  careers,  was  a  finalist  in  the  Romance  Writers 
of  America's  Golden  Heart  Contest.  She  is  a  four-term  past  president 
of  the  Connecticut  Chapter  and  serves  as  liaison  to  the  Published 
Authors  Special  Interest  Chapter. 


Understanding  GPS:  Principles  and  Applications  (Second  Edition) 

by  Christopher  J.  Hegarty  '90  ('92  MS)  and  Elliott  Kaplan   Artecfi  House 

This  update  of  Artech's  popular  1996  guide  covers  the  latest 
advances  in  technology  and  applications  of  the  Global  Positioning 
System  (GPS).  The  second  edition  includes  new  chapters  on  the 
integration  of  GPS  with  vehicles  and  cellular  telephones,  new  classes 
of  satellite  broadcast  signals,  the  emerging  GALILEO  system,  and  new 
developments  in  the  GPS  marketplace.  Hegarty  is  a  senior  principal 
engineer  at  MITRE  Corp.  He  holds  a  DSc  in  electrical  engineering 
from  George  Washington  University  and  currently  serves  as  editor  of 
the  Institute  of  Navigation's  quarterly  journal,  NAVIGATION. 

3  8     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


Charles  Sullivan  was 

appointed  vice  president 
and  portfolio  manager 
in  Trust  Investments  at 
Citizens  Bank  in  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  He  was  previ- 
ously vice  president  of 
investments  for  Smith  Barney. 


1981 


Ernie  Cormier  joined  British  cable  TV 
and  broadband  provider  ntl.  He  is  based  in 
London  as  senior  vice  president  of  corporate 
strategy.  Before  moving  abroad,  he  writes, 
"Jan  and  I  took  a  spontaneous  5,600-mile, 
14-state  driving  vacation  across  the  U.S.  Ourn 
oldest  two  kids  are  out  of  school,  living  in 
San  Francisco,  while  our  youngest  is  a  soph- 
omore at  Smith  College.  I  continue  to  regard*! 
WPI  as  a  key  enabler  of  everything  I've 
accomplished  in  my  career." 

Jack  Healy  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Environ- 
mental Resources  Management  and  an 
adjunct  professor  at  Naugatuck  Valley 
Community  College.  He  lives  in  Litchfield, 
Conn. 

Owen  Murphy  (MS  CS)  joined  the  faculty 
of  the  University  of  Arkansas  at  Little  Rock 
Donaghey  College  of  Information  Science  &> 
Systems  Engineering,  which  is  commonly 
called  CyberCollege.  He  chairs  the  informa- 
tion science  department. 

Greg  Phipps  is  vice  president  of  marketing  fo: 
Indium  Corp.  of  America  in  Clinton,  N.Y. 


1982 


Anni  Autio  was  elected  ASCE  vice  presiden 
for  Zone  I.  A  senior  project  manager  for 
CDM  Federal  Programs  Corp.  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  she  is  a  past  president  of  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 

James  Diemer  is  managing  director  of  Pace 
Global  Energy  Services  Division.  He  contin- 
ues to  reside  in  Fairfax,  Va.,  with  his  wife, 
Maureen,  and  children,  Matthew,  17,  and 
Emily,  15. 

Michael  Donati  and  his  wife,  Michelle, 
completed  the  adoption  of  their  5-year-old 
son,  Alejandro,  in  July  2005.  Their  daughte 
Michaela,  7,  accompanied  them  to  Guate- 
mala to  meet  her  new  brother.  "They  are 
wonderful  together,  and  he  is  a  joy,"  Micha< 
writes.  The  family  lives  in  Newfields,  N.H. 

Former  football  captain  Bob  Montagna 
lives  in  Attleboro,  Mass.,  where  he  works 
for  Contracting  Specialists.  He  and  his  wife 
Chervl,  have  three  sons. 


1985 


-A.  For  23  years,  classmates  from  1982  have 
gathered  for  their  annual  Christmas  Eve 
brunch,  a  tradition  unbroken  since  gradua- 
tion. From  left,  (kneeling)  Joe  Amarello, 
Steve  Jolicoeur,  Todd  Dean;  (standing) 
Deb  Madamba  Jolicoeur,  Gail  Miranda 
Hudek,  Susan  Keegan  Amarello  '87, 
Donna  Martin  Dean,  host  Steve  Brodeur, 
and  Ann  Sullivan  Schofield. 


Recycle  this  issue! 

Donate  your  copy  of  Transformations 

to  your  dentist's  office,  auto  mechanic, 

or  other  locations,  so  others  may 

learn  about  WPI. 


1983 


Don  Montgomery  moved  from  the 
Philadelphia  area  to  San  Diego  in  June 
2005,  and  joined  Akonix  Systems  Inc.  as 
vice  president  of  marketing  and  customer 
support.  "I  am  living  in  Pacific  Beach  and 
adapting  to  West  Coast  life,"  he  writes. 


1984 


David  Collette  was  promoted  to  vice  presi- 
dent of  manufacturing  and  technology  at 
Argotec  Inc.  in  Greenfield,  Mass.  He  lives  in 
South  Hadley  with  his  wife  and  four  children. 

Richard  Madamba  is  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  Thermal  Management 
Systems  within  AMETEK's  Aerospace  & 
Defense  division.  He  is  responsible  for  the 
company's  Rotron  Military  &  Aerospace  Prod- 
ucts and  its  Hughes-Treitler  business  units. 


William  Astore  joined  the  faculty  of 
Pennsylvania  College  of  Technology  as  an 
associate  professor  of  history. 


1986 


John  Bleyer  supports  National  Grid's  field 
operations  in  the  New  England  area  as  a 
senior  substation  equipment  maintenance 
engineer.  His  article  on  power  factor  testing 
appeared  in  Transmission  &  Distribution 
World. 

John  Jezowski  joined  Wachovia  Wealth 
Management  as  a  vice  president,  relationship 
manager.  He  is  based  in  Hartford,  Conn. 

Mercedeh  Mirkazemi  Ward  and  her  hus- 
band, Bruce,  moved  to  Denver  recently.  She 
continues  to  consult  for  MGA  Entertain- 
ment as  senior  director  for  girls'  and  pre- 
school toys.  "I  also  teach  8th  grade  math  to 
children  with  learning  disabilities,  which  is  a 
challenge  in  itself  everyday,"  she  writes.  "Our 
son,  Kyle,  13,  and  daughter,  Arianna,  11,  are 
on  the  slopes  every  weekend  snowboarding. 
We  would  love  to  hear  from  alumni  who  live 
in  the  Denver  area." 

Cmdr.  Frank  Weber  was  recalled  by  the 
Navy  for  a  three-year  assignment  as  assistant 
professor  in  the  mechanical  engineering 
department  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Academy  in 
Annapolis.  He  also  coaches  the  women's  fast- 
pitch  club  softball  team.  Frank,  his  wife, 
Tracy,  and  their  two  children  have  settled 
into  their  new  home  in  Maryland. 


1987 


Gary  Allen  '87  and  Deborah  Murphy 

Allen  '88  are  thrilled  to  announce  the  birth 
of  their  fifth  child,  Roland,  on  Nov.  13, 
2005.  He  was  happily  welcomed  home  by 
his  siblings,  Zach,  12,  Tess,  8,  Ben,  6,  and 
Grace,  4.  In  January,  Gary  celebrated  his 
10th  anniversary  at  Intel,  where  he  is  a  staff 
engineer.  Deb  writes,  "I  am  still  taking  a 
break  from  my  career  as  an  actuary  to  be 
home  with  our  children...  and  loving  every 
minute." 


Kevin  Biernacki  married  Kathleen  Corbin 
in  May,  in  a  private  ceremony  in  Maui.  A 
ceremony  and  a  reception  were  held  in 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  on  Sept.  15  and  16.  Kevin 
is  director  of  global,  environmental  health 
and  safety  for  EMC  Corp.  in  Hopkinton. 

William  Cotter  married  Sherrylynn  Warner. 
He  works  for  Garofalo  &  Associates  in 
Providence. 

Keith  Noe  was  made  a  partner  at  the  intel- 
lectual property  law  firm  Lowrie,  Lando  & 
Anastasi.  He  joined  the  Cambridge,  Mass., 
firm  in  2004. 


1988 


Andrew  Bruce  joined  UtiliPoint  Interna- 
tional in  Houston  as  vice  president  of  the 
Trading  &  Risk  Management  Practice. 

Mike  Hartnett  is  a  district  construction 
engineer  with  the  Mass.  Highway  Dept. 

Donna  (Grimaldo)  Jordan  is  vice  president 
of  quality  control  and  quality  assurance  at 
Biovest  International. 

Lt.  Col.  Eric  Pauer  serves  as  commander  of 
the  102  Civil  Engineering  Squadron  at  Otis 
Air  National  Guard  Base  in  Massachusetts. 
He  is  also  director  of  R&D  at  DTC  Com- 
munications in  Nashua,  N.H. 


1989 


William  Bennett  continues  as  vice  presi- 
dent, Americas  Management,  for  Brown 
Brothers  Harriman  in  New  York  City.  He 
was  recently  elected  to  the  American  Bankers 
Association  Marketing  Network  Council. 

Christopher  Ferrari  is  a  project  manager  at 
J.  W  Peters  in  Burlington,  Wis. 

Brian  Freeman  was  awarded  the  Bronze  Star 
for  his  California  National  Guard  service  in 
southern  Babil  Province,  Iraq,  where  he  was 
deployed  as  team  engineer  for  a  civil  affairs 
unit  from  April  2004  to  February  2005. 
Brian  established  a  model  reconstruction 
program,  for  which  he  created  database 
management  tools  and  designed  a  point 
source  sand  filter  water  purification.  He  also 
worked  with  local  Iraqi  government  and 
tribal  leaders,  as  well  as  the  U.S.  State 
Department,  USAID,  and  Corps  of 
Engineers.  A  senior  systems  Engineer  for 
ITT  Gilfillan,  Brian  lives  in  Sherman  Oaks, 
Calif,  with  his  wife,  Liz,  and  their  two  sons. 

Kim  and  Michelle  (Townsend)  Knight  are 

pleased  to  announce  the  birth  of  their  first 
child,  Katherine  Michelle,  on  Aug.  26, 


Tr  a  n  sfo  rmations    \    Spring  2006     39 


•   « 


2005.  The  family  lives  in  a  1 15-year-old 
house  in  charming  downtown  Rochester, 
Mich.  Michelle  has  been  an  attorney  at 
Young  &  Basile,  specializing  in  intellectual 
property,  since  graduation  from  UConn 
School  of  Law  in  May  2000.  Kim  is  a  con- 
sulting engineer  with  Doshi  &  Associates, 
performing  commercial,  industrial,  and  insti- 
tutional electrical  design. 

Frank  Ricard  and  his  wife,  Jennifer,  are 
happy  to  announce  the  birth  of  their  son, 
Thomas  Anthony,  born  Oct.  22,  2005.  His 
sisters,  Emily,  Madeline,  Caroline,  and 
Sophia,  love  having  a  real  baby  to  play  with, 
Frank  writes.  "But  no  one  is  more  thrilled 
than  big  brother  Sam — finally,  another  boy!" 
Frank  works  for  GE  Energy  Services  and  is 
the  engineering  manager  at  the  Twinsburg, 
Ohio,  facility. 


1990 

Jonathan  Bird's  new  film,  "Sharks  of  the 
Ocean  Desert,"  a  National  Geographic  docu- 
mentary, premiered  at  the  National  Heritage 
Museum  in  Lexington,  Mass.,  in  October. 
The  event  was  a  benefit  for  the  newly  estab- 
lished scholarship  program  of  his  nonprofit 
organization,  Oceanic  Research  Group,  dedi- 
cated to  conservation  of  the  world's  oceans 
through  education. 

HNU  CHARAN 

2006 


Steven  Brightman  married  Jennifer  Martin, 
Sept.  17,  2005.  He  is  a  senior  software  engi- 
neer at  Zebra  Technologies  in  Warwick,  R.I. 

Eric  Lindgren  joined  Honeywell  as  vice 
president  and  CIO  for  the  company's 
Environmental  &  Combustion  Control  divi- 
sion. He  and  his  wife,  Ellen,  relocated  to 
Victoria,  Minn.,  with  their  daughter,  Noelle, 
and  twin  sons  Aidan  and  Brandon,  who 
were  born  on  July  12,  2005. 

Gerald  Mancini  (MS  EE)  is  vice  president 
of  engineering  at  Fidelis  Security  Systems  in 
Bethesda,  Md. 


40     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


Pennie  Turgeon  (MBA) 

left  WPI  to  become  CIO 
and  vice  president  for 
Information  Technology 
at  Clark  University. 

Neil  Urie  married  Kristin 
Erickson  on  Oct.  16, 
2005.  He  owns  and  operates  Bonnieview 
Farm  in  Craftsbury  Common,  Vt.,  where  he 
raises  sheep  and  produces  cheese  from  their 
milk.  The  farm,  formerly  a  Holstein  dairy, 
has  been  in  his  family  for  four  generations. 

Ker  Zhang  (PhD),  of 
Orange  County,  Calif, 
visited  WPI  in  October, 
during  a  business  trip  to 
the  East  Coast.  As  CEO 
of  Via  Telecom  Inc., 
Zhang  oversees  the  opera- 
tions of  this  fabless  semiconductor  company, 
including  its  development  of  software  for 
CDMA  (code  division  multiple  access) 
chips.  His  successful  career  in  the  lucrative 
wireless  communications  industry  was  born 
at  WPI,  with  the  encouragement  of  professor 
of  electrical  and  computer  engineering 
Kaveh  Pahlavan.  Zhang  was  on  a  track  for  a 
PhD  in  physics  when  Pahlavan  intercepted. 
"My  whole  career  is  based  on  that  moment 
when  I  knocked  on  Dr.  Pahlavan's  door," 
Zhang  says.  "It  has  been  an  exciting  career  in 
the  wireless  industry." 


1992 


^  Kristin  (Conley)  Resca  competed  in  the 
Bikram  Yoga  International  Yoga  Asana 
Annual  Competition  held  in  Los  Angeles  in 
February.  After  placing  third  in  the  New 
England  regional  competition,  she  was  slated 
as  an  alternate,  until  another  competitor  was 
injured  and  had  to  withdraw  only  10  days 
before  the  Los  Angeles  event.  Her  husband, 
Peter  Resca  '93,  encouraged  her  to  go  for  it, 
and  although  she  did  not  place  in  the  finals, 
she  told  the  Sharon  Advocate  that  she  learned 
much  from  the  experience  and  would  cer- 
tainly do  it  again.  Kristin  and  Peter  live  in 
Sharon,  Mass.,  with  their  two  children, 
Lindsay  and  Tim. 


1993 


Kimberly  (Philipp)  Chotkowski  writes, 
"Alex  and  I  welcomed  our  first  child,  Emily 
Alexandra  ("Lexi"),  into  the  world  on  Oct. 
5,  2004.  It  was  an  eventful  time  since  daddy 
was  away  in  Iraq  defending  the  USA  as  a 
major  in  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  when  she 
was  born.  Six  months  later  he  was  intro- 


i. 

L*& 

f  I 

tmPi  Life  Scienc 

HI 

■■■■■■l^H^HB^M 

Constructing  WPI's  Future 

Mike  Walker  '78,  Brian  Hamilton  '89, 
and  Steve  Johnson  '94  have  a  unique 
perspective  on  WPI's  future.  Through  their 
work  with  Consigli  Construction,  these 
alumni  are  helping  build  Gateway  Park, 
a  collaboration  between  the  university  and 
the  Worcester  Business  Development 
Corporation.  (Full  story  on  page  18.) 


duced  to  her  bright  blue  eyes.  The  love  bond 
was  immediate!  I  have  been  promoted  to 
senior  director,  intellectual  property  strategy 
and  litigation,  at  InterDigital  Communi- 
cations Corp.  We  reside  in  West  Chester, 
Pa.,  where  Alex  also  practices  law.  We  are 
looking  forward  to  the  birth  of  our  second 
child  in  July  2006." 

Derek  Ezovski  joined  EDR  as  vice  president 
of  business  development  and  head  of  the 
lender  and  insurance  services  division. 

Joan  Fallon  (MM)  won  the  Mary  Ann 
Sessions  Excellence  in  Education  Award  for 
the  2004-05  school  year.  She  has  taught  at 
Nashoba  Regional  High  School  in  Bolton, 
Mass.,  since  1983. 

Al  Grasso  (MS  CS)  was  appointed  executive 
vice  president  of  MITRE  Corp.  in  September. 
He  will  become  president  and  CEO  when 
the  current  president  retires  in  2006. 


1994 


Doreen  Burrell  transferred  back  to  Florida 
to  work  as  a  structures  sub-system  engineer 
on  the  Space  Shuttle  program.  She  has  been 
with  Boeing  for  10  years  and  says  that  she  is 
enjoying  the  warm  weather  again  after  being 
"up  north"  in  Alabama  for  two  years. 

Jean  Marie  (Henault)  Kennamer  has  taken 
on  a  new  job  as  city  engineer  for  Nashua, 
N.H.  She  and  her  husband  live  in  Salem 
with  their  daughter,  Christina  Elise. 


.. 


class  notes 


1995 


1997 


Craig  Boucher  holds  the  post  of  firestop- 
ping  product  technical  engineer  at  Grace 
Construction  Products. 


Suzanne  Timmerman  Edmonson  and  her 

husband,  Michael,  are  happy  to  announce 
the  adoption  of  their  daughter,  Sophia 
Maria,  born  May  19,  2005,  and  united 
with  her  forever-family  on  Nov.  28,  2005. 
Suzanne  writes,  "The  photo  was  taken  in 
Guatemala  City,  on  Sophie's  "Gotcha  Day," 
which  is  what  many  adoptive  families  call 
the  day  they  receive  custody  of  their  child. 
Sophie  is  a  bright-eyed  baby  who  likes  to 
cuddle  and  blow  raspberries.  Our  son, 
Nathan,  is  very  excited  to  be  a  big  brother. 
We  were  all  happy  to  have  Sophie  home  in 
time  for  her  first  Christmas." 

Eli  Garrett  married  Jennifer  Malloy  on 
Sept.  17,  2005.  He  works  for  Shine  Racing 
Services  in  Walpole,  Mass. 

Stacey  (Watrous)  and  Rob  Jackson  had  a 

second  daughter,  Allison  Catherine,  on 
Oct.  3,  2005.  She  was  welcomed  into  their 
Holden  home  by  big  sister  Megan. 

Doug  Nashold  works  for  Fallon  Commun- 
ity Health  Care  as  data  warehouse  adminis- 
trator. He  and  his  wife,  Kristiana,  live  in 
Millbury,  Mass. 

Len  Zheleznyak  completed  his  MBA  at  the 

University  of  Denver's  Daniels  College  of 
Business  in  June  2005.  He  is  employed  as  a 
product  manager  at  IHS  Inc.  and  holds  an 
adjunct  professorship  in  the  management 
department  of  Colorado  Technical  Univer- 
sity. Residing  in  Denver,  he  hopes  to  hit  30+ 
days  on  the  slopes  again  this  year. 


1996 


Doug  Borden  joined  Booz  Allen  Hamilton 
in  McLean,  Va.,  as  a  subject  matter  expert 
supporting  the  U.S.  Army  Installation 
Management  Command's  performance 
excellence  programs  based  on  the  Malcolm 
Baldrige  National  Quality  Award  criteria. 


Danielle  Batey  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Digimarc  in  Amherst,  N.H.  After  her  induc- 
tion into  the  WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  in 
2005,  her  hometown  paper  ran  an  article  on 
how  her  high  school  and  college  athletic 
success  influenced  her  work  ethic. 

Zachary  Cobb  married  Meghan  O'Neal 
on  June  10,  2005.  After  a  honeymoon  on 
Nantucket,  they  live  in  Sutton,  Mass. 


1998 


Brian  Bresnahan  and  Kellie  Martin  '01 

were  married  on  April  30,  2005.  Alumni  in 
the  wedding  include  Luke  Poppish,  Doug 
Sullivan,  and  Sara  (Briggs)  Misra  '01.  The 

couple  lives  in  South  Grafton,  Mass. 

Richard  Cournoyer  was  promoted  from 
senior  manufacture  engineer  to  operations 
manager  at  Ducommun.  He  and  his  wife, 
Celia,  reside  in  Arcadia,  Calif. 


Take  the  survey! 
Win  an  iPod! 

Let  us  know  what  you  think  about 

The  Bridge,  Transformations,  the  Alumni 

Web  site,  and  other  WPI  communications. 

alutMMi.wpi.edo/News/Pridge/Survcy 


Stephen  Davis  joined  Advanced  Signing  in 
Medway,  Mass.,  as  senior  project  manager. 

Adam  Fowler  is  engaged  to  Nancy  Tryder. 
They  are  planning  a  September  2006  wed- 
ding in  Cabo  San  Lucas,  Mexico. 

Brian  Libby  (PhD)  joined  Verrill  Dana  in 
Portland,  Maine,  as  an  attorney  specializing 
in  business  law  and  intellectual  property. 

Andrew  Marsh  (MS  MFE)  was  named 
president  of  Rolls-Royce  Naval  Marine  Inc. 
based  in  Walpole,  Mass. 

David  Melton 

married  Claudia 
Curole  on  March 
4,  2006,  in  New 
Orleans.  David  is 
completing  an 
internship  at  the 
Hospital  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania.  In  June  they  will 
move  to  Baton  Rouge,  where  David  will 
begin  a  residency  in  the  Louisiana  State  Uni- 
versity Health  Sciences  Center  Emergency 
Medicine  Residency  Program.  He  is  a  2005 
graduate  of  Tulane  University  School  of 
Medicine  and  a  member  of  the  Alpha  Omega 


Alpha  medical  honor  society.  He  did  his 
final  medical  school  clerkship  rotation  in 
Uganda,  at  the  Bwindi  Community  Health 
Center. 


Many  alumni  gathered  for  the  wedding  of 
Josef  Scherpa  and  Christianne  Magee  '01 

in  November  2005.  Tiana  graduated  from 
Tufts  Veterinary  School  in  2004  and  is  now 
an  equine  reproduction  resident  at  Colorado 
State  University.  Joe  completed  a  master's 
degree  in  human  factors  engineering  at  Tufts 
in  2003  and  is  a  visual  design  lead  for 
IBM/Lotus.  They  live  in  Fort  Collins,  Colo. 

New&7W 

Shannon  (Gallagher)  Beauregard  '93, 
Dan  Beauregard  '94,  Eric  Jacobson  '96 
What    Chip  Shots  Grill  and  Sports  Pub 
Where:   Littleton,  Mass. 

Come  for  the  food,  stay  for  the  drinks, 
watch  tonight's  game  on  the  60" 
plasma  screen— and  play  golf  all  year 
'round  on  state-of-the-art  golf  simulation 
machines. 
i:    chipshotspub.com 

Who:    Liz  Stewart  '93 

Who'     Lush  Beads 
Where:  Lowell,  Mass. 

Supplies,  classes,  and  inspiration  are 
offered  to  area  beaders.  A  monthly 
"beaders  challenge"  kit  is  available  at 
a  nominal  fee  to  foster  creativity. 
Web:    lushbeads.com 

Whc     Jeetandra  Mahtani  '03  (MS), 
Peter  Caputo  '98 

WhizSpark  Corp 
Westborough,  Mass. 
Online  event-planning  tools  for  every 
occasion,  from  parties  to  business 
conventions.  Mentioned  in  Newsweek 
as  an  ad-free  alternative  to  free  e-invite 
services. 
Web:    whizspark.com 


Transformations    \   Spring  2006    4  1 


Japa  Volchok  and  his  wife,  Allison,  wel- 
comed their  first  child,  Benjamin  Zollie, 
born  Feb.  20,  2006. 


1999 


Fernando  Correa  is  the  proud  parent  of  a 
baby  boy,  Mateo,  born  on  the  20th  of 
December,  2005. 

Anthony  Frederico  married  Megan  Reilly 
recently.  He  is  a  project  manager  at  EMC 
in  Hopkinton,  Mass. 

Thomas  Jenei  married  Sarah  DOench  on 
Sept.  10,  2005.  They  met  during  their  vet- 
erinary internships  at  Tufts,  where  he  is  now 
a  third-year  surgical  resident.  Sarah  is  an 
associate  with  the  Massachusetts  Equine 
Clinic. 

Heath  Therrien  is  a  project  engineer  with 
Granite  Construction  in  Santa  Barbara, 
Calif. 


Sumedha  Bahri  is  a  graduate  of  North- 
eastern University  School  of  Law,  and  an 
associate  at  Hamilton,  Brook,  Smith  & 
Reynolds,  P.C. 

Kristin  Connarn  joined  Hamilton,  Brook, 
Smith  &  Reynolds,  P.C,  as  a  patent  agent. 
She  is  a  graduate  of  Suffolk  University 
School  of  Law. 

Seth  Sienkiewicz  married  Meagan  O'Brien 
on  May  14,  2005.  She  is  a  fellow  employee 
at  Kidde-Fenwal,  where  Seth  is  a  fire  protec- 
tion engineer. 

Holly  Weymouth  married  Rob  Fanjoy  on 
Sept.  24,  2005.  They  live  in  Ann  Arbor, 
Mich.,  where  Holly  is  completing  her 
residency  in  emergency  medicine  at  the 
University  of  Michigan. 


2001 


2000 


Correction:  Anne-Marie  Chouinard 

("Mongolia  to  Moscow — by  Train,"  Winter 
2005)  graduated  with  the  Class  of  2000, 
not  2002.  Transformations  regrets  the  error. 

Jason  Bacon  works  for  Odeh  Engineers  in 
North  Providence,  R.I.  He  married  Kathryn 
McCorry  on  July  24,  2005. 


John  Bottino  married  Marsha  Dufort 
recently.  He  is  an  engineer  at  BAE  Systems 
in  Nashua,  N.H. 

Emily  (Gilbreath)  Ciulla  was  appointed 
senior  quality  control  engineer  at  Intertech 
Engineering  Associates  in  Norwood,  Mass. 

Ryan  Kilgore  and  his  wife,  Lauren,  are 
thrilled  to  announce  the  birth  of  their  first 
child,  William  Bradford,  born  June  30, 
2005.  "The  happy  parents  could  not  be 
prouder,"  he  writes.  Ryan  is  on  track  to 
finish  his  PhD  at  the  University  of  Toronto 
in  the  spring  of  2006. 


While  in  Rome  on  R&R  leave  from  Iraq, 
Army  Capt.  Nick  Macsata  proposed  to  his 
girlfriend,  Kathleen  Towers.  She  is  a  2001 
graduate  of  the  University  of  New  Haven. 
A  wedding  is  planned  for  next  December. 

Kathy  Pacheco 

married  Daniel 
Czerwiec  on  July  3, 
2005.  Their  maid 
of  honor  was  Jenn 
Patoulidis.  After  a 
honeymoon  in 
Maui,  the  couple 
lives  in  Feeding 
Hills,  Mass. 

Andrew  Stone  and  Kristen  Lafond  '03 

were  married  June  25,  2005.  They  live  in 
Hudson,  Mass.  Kristen  works  for  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Defense,  and  Andrew  serves 
as  new  technology  specialist  at  the  WPI 
Computing  &  Communications  Center. 

Eric  Tapley  and  his  wife,  Katharine,  had  a 
healthy  baby  boy,  Samuel  David,  on  Jan.  30, 
2006.  See  photos  at  his  personal  site, 
www.etapley.com. 

Mark  Whiteman  wed  Sarah  Phaneuf 
(Worcester  State  2000)  on  Nov.  3,  2005, 
at  Magens  Beach,  St.  Thomas,  in  the  Virgin 
Islands.  The  couple  is  planning  a  wedding 
celebration  in  May  2006  at  their  residence 
in  Southborough,  Mass. 


Which  university  offers  the 

only  MBA  east  of  the  Rockies  that 
ranked  in  the  Top  10  in  both  Career 
Prospects  and  Opportunities  for 
Women?     Yours* 

We  know  that  when  choosing  an  MBA  program,  nothing  matters 
more  than  the  doors  it  opens  for  you.  The  MBA  at  WPI  launches 
more  rewarding  careers  and  provides  greater  opportunities  to  move  into 
desirable  career  paths  that  will  inspire  and  challenge  you  for  a  lifetime. 

Know  where  you  want  to  go?  Choose  the  MBA  that  will  get  you  there. 


For  more  information 
508-831-5218 
wvrw.mgt.wpi.edu 


42     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


ciass  note 


2002 


Jessica  Brown  and  Joe  Wimbrow  '03  were 
married  Oct.  9,  2005.  They  live  in  Orange 
County,  Calif.,  where  Jessica  is  a  biomedical 
engineer  for  Edwards  LifeSciences,  and  Joe  is 
a  mechanical  engineer  for  Parker  Hannifin. 

Meghan  (Fraizer)  and  Marc  Cryan  had 
their  first  child,  Emma  Claire,  on  Oct.  7, 
2005.  They  live  in  Maynard,  Mass. 

Amy  Fuller  married  Matthew  Lagueux  on 
Sept.  10,  2005.  Her  brother,  Kyle  '04,  gave 
her  away.  Many  WPI  alumni  and  graduate 
students  attended  the  wedding,  including 
classmates  Cheryl  Drake,  Nicholas  Hatch, 
Brian  Laplume,  Rabin  Tamang,  and 
Benjamin  Woodacre.  After  honeymooning 
on  an  Alaskan  cruise  ship,  Amy  and  Matt 
live  in  Sterling,  Mass. 

Lori  Luiz  and  James  Dascoli  were  married 
Sept.  17,  2005,  with  Tiffany  Howland  and 
Elena  Kozulin  as  bridesmaids.  After  a  hon- 
eymoon in  Riveira  Maya,  Mexico,  the  couple 
lives  in  Marlborough,  Mass. 

Melissa  Morgan 

and  Norman  Topp 
became  engaged  on 
Christmas  morning 
2005.  The  happy 
couple  is  planning  a 
spring  2007  wedding 
in  their  hometown  of  Warwick,  R.I. 


2003 


Maeghan  Bergeron  and  James  Johnston  got 
engaged  over  Veterans  Day  weekend  2005, 
while  vacationing  on  Cape  Cod.  The  wed- 
ding is  planned  for  Oct.  6,  2006. 

Robert  Desmarais  married  Cynthia  Forbes 
on  June  1 1,  2003.  After  a  honeymoon  in 
Hawaii,  they  live  in  Portland,  Conn. 

Kristopher  Jeschke  married  Dorrie 
Lachance  on  July  30,  2005.  They  live  in 
North  Providence,  R.I. 


2004 


Congratulations  to  Erin  Bliven,  who  ran  the 
2005  New  York  City  Marathon  in 
November,  finishing  with  a  time  of  4:58. 
She  graduated  from  Emory  University  in 
December  with  a  master  of  public  health 
degree  in  epidemiology.  She  is  now  working 
as  an  infection  control  epidemiologist  at 
Grady  Health  Systems  in  Atlanta. 

Sean  Coughlin  recently  completed  his  mas- 
ter's in  statistics  at  Columbia  University.  He 


now  lives  in  Morristown,  N.J.,  and  works  for 
marketRx  as  a  consultant  in  the  pharmaceu- 
tical industry. 

2nd  Lt.  Vincent  Fusca  deployed  to  Iraq 
with  Vermont  Army  National  Guard 
Company  C,  3-126  Aviation  Battalion.  He 
plans  to  continue  his  job  at  Seldon  Labora- 
tories when  he  returns. 

Benjamin  Grimshaw  married  Carrie 
Duteau  recently.  They  live  in  Spencer,  Mass. 

Meg  Lindberg  recently  accepted  a  job  as  a 
business  underwriter  with  Liberty  Mutual, 
where  she  is  the  only  engineer  in  her  group. 
She  was  recently  tapped  to  be  part  of  a 
Libert)'  panel  speaking  to  Boston  college 
seniors  about  succeeding  as  a  non-business 
major  in  a  business  environment.  Meg  lives 
in  Brighton,  Mass. 

Lauren  O'Connell  and  Aaron  Vanney  are 

engaged  to  be  married  on  Sept.  3,  2006,  in 
Portland,  Conn.  They  currently  live  in 
Chicago.  Conor  Casey  '05  is  slated  to  serve 
as  best  man,  and  Jillian  Garrity  will  be  the 
maid  of  honor. 

Sarah  Walsh  works  for  International 
Specialty  Products  in  Wayne,  N.J.,  as  a  tech- 
nical consultant,  while  completing  her  mas- 
ter's degree  in  biomedical  engineering/med- 
ical physics  at  Stony  Brook  University  in 
Long  Island,  N.Y. 


2005 


Kristine  Sjogren  (MME)  married 
Jonathan  Miller  recently  She  is  a  mathe- 
matics teacher  at  Wachusett  Regional 
High  School.  They  live  in  Rutland,  Mass. 

Maria  Barcinas  married  Bonrad  Aguila 
in  July  2005.  They  recently  moved  to 
Long  Island,  N.Y.,  with  daughter 
Gabrielle.  Maria  has  joined  Con  Edison 
as  a  junior  designer  in  Transmission/Civil 
Design. 

William  Herbert  joined  Empirix  in 
Bedford,  Mass.,  as  a  Web  application  spe- 
cialist supporting  the  company's  load-test- 
ing and  Web-monitoring  products.  He 
still  resides  in  Worcester. 

Master  of  Natural  Science 

Sue  Fontaine  '82  is  2005-06  Teacher  of 
the  Year  in  Tolland,  Conn.,  where  she  has 
taught  high  school  for  1 5  years.  She  is 
pursuing  a  master's  degree  in  technical 
education  at  Lesley  College. 


Alumni  Association  Awards 

The  following  awards  will  be  presented  during  Reunion  Weekend,  June  9-1 1: 

Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 

Ichabod  Washburn  Young  Alumni  Award 

for  Outstanding  Professional  Achievement 

for  Professional  Achievement 

Peter  B.  Myers  '46,  retired  director, 

James  P.  Baum  '86,  president  and  CEO, 

National  Academy  of  Sciences 

Endeca  Technologies 

Robert  L.  Diamond  '56,  CEO 

Ajay  V  Chauhan  '86,  executive  director, 

and  co-founder,  Xanboo  Inc. 

Parle  Products  Limited 

John  P.  Casey  '76,  president, 

Barry  C.  Fougere  '86,  president  and  CEO, 

General  Dynamics  Electric  Boat 

Colubris  Networks 

William  N.  Giudice  '76,  vice  president 

Joseph  A.  Gamma!  '86,  principal, 

and  general  manager,  Micromachined 

Synectics  Inc. 

Products  Division,  Analog  Devices  Inc. 

Richard  D.Willett '91,  COO, 

Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 

Teleglobe  Inc. 

for  Distinguished  Service  to  WPI 

John  Boynton  Young  Alumni  Award 

John  Lott  Brown  '46 

for  Service  to  WPI 

Mary  Sherman  '76 
Frederick  Rucker  '81 

Amy  L.  Marr  '96 

William  R.  Grogan  Award 

for  Support  of  the  Mission  of  WPI 

WPI  Award  for  Distinguished  Service 

Robert  M.  Taylor,  lead  technician,  ME 

(posthumously) 

William  R.  Grogan  '46 
Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66 

Humanitarian  Leadership  Award 

Richard  C.  Liebich  '66 

Transformations    \    Spring  2006     43 


Obituaries 


Obituaries 


Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Charles  E.  Moss  '24  in  1998.  He  was 
retired  from  Westinghouse  Corp.  His  wife, 
Betty,  died  in  1992. 

C.  Stanley  (Clarence)  Knight  '32  (Phi 
Sigma  Kappa)  of  Summerville,  S.C.,  died 
Nov.  6,  2005.  He  was  the  retired  president 
and  owner  of  the  C.  H.  Knight  Chevrolet 
dealership  in  Southbridge,  Mass.,  founded 
by  his  father.  He  was  the  husband  of  the  late 
Charlotte  (Corey)  Knight,  and  the  father  of 
three  children,  who  survive  them. 

Paul  G.  Guernsey  '33  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Southern  Pines,  N.C.,  died  Dec. 
5,  2004.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Mary 
(Rolls),  and  two  children.  His  first  wife, 
Helen  (Whitehead),  predeceased  him. 
Guernsey  retired  from  a  40-year  career  with 
Mobil  Oil  Co.  as  sales  manager  for  the 
North  American  division.  He  later  served  as 
president  of  Sun  Travel  Co. 

Ralph  J.  Voigt  '33 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Honolulu,  died  Sept.  20, 
2005.  He  was  a  retired 
sales  representative  for 
Narragansett  Electric  Co. 
Survivors  include  his 

Leonard  B.  Almy  '34  (Theta  Chi)  of  Seal 
Beach,  Calif,  died  Aug.  15,  2005.  He  was 
the  president  and  founder  of  Digit  Co.  A 
longtime  resident  of  Marblehead,  Mass., 
Almy  was  a  former  captain  of  the  Marble- 
head  Auxiliary  Police.  Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Liliana,  his  son,  Christopher  Almy  '64, 
a  daughter,  three  stepdaughters,  and  his 
grandchildren,  two  of  whom  are  WPI  alumni. 

Charles  C.  Puffer  '35  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Osprey,  Fla.,  died  Oct.  25,  2005,  leaving 
his  wife,  Jane  (Coffee),  and  three  children. 
He  was  a  mechanical  engineer  at  Chapman 
Valve  Co.  and  previously  worked  for  the 
H.  C.  Puffer  Grain  Company. 

Harold  I.  Johnson  '37 

(Sigma  Phi  Epsilon, 
Skull)  of  Walnut  Creek, 
Calif,  died  June  27, 
2005.  His  wife,  Frances, 
survives  him.  He  was 
retired  from  Bethlehem 

Steel  Corp.  as  assistant  to  the  district 

manager. 


Maurice  Pressman  '38  of  Silver  Spring, 
Md.,  died  Oct.  13,  2005,  leaving  his  wife, 
Edith,  and  two  children.  A  retired  chemical 
engineer,  he  served  in  the  U.S.  Army's 
research  and  development  laboratories. 

MMB  John  P.  Alcock  '39 

^^^^^^^H    (Alpha  Tau  Omega)  of 
W§  ^^k    Marshall,  Va.,  died  Oct. 

*  '      I   25,  2005.  He  leaves  his 

-•^H  .     —y-^^k    wile,  Mariana  (Collins), 
^K     >Svrfl    I    and  three  children. 
1^.     ilfli    I    Alcock  worked  for  E.I. 
DuPont  de  Nemours  until  1967.  He  then 
began  a  second  career  with  Alpilar,  a  compa- 
ny he  founded  in  Argentina,  working  with 
farmers  near  Buenos  Aires  to  supply  urban 
supermarkets  with  chickens.  In  retirement, 
he  researched  and  published  several  books 
on  his  family's  genealogy. 

Transformations  has 
learned  of  the  death  of 
Thomas  F.  Beatty  Jr.  '39 

(Phi  Kappa  Theta)  of 
Worcester  in  2002. 
Survivors  include  his  wife, 
Mary  (Thayer),  and  two 
daughters.  He  was  a  retired  electrical  engi- 
neer for  G.T.E.  Sylvania  Co. 

Professor  Emeritus 
Fred  N.  Webster  '39 

of  Princeton,  Mass.,  died 
Oct.  27,  2005.  Webster 
earned  a  master's  degree 
in  mechanical  engineering 
at  WPI  in  1941  and 
taught  for  24  years,  retiring  in  1972.  He 
previously  taught  at  Tufts  University  and 
the  University  of  Maine.  His  wife,  Ruth 
(Toutellotte),  died  two  months  before  him. 
Survivors  include  two  children. 

Richard  F.  Scharmann  '40  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon),  a  longtime  resident  of  Hatboro, 
Pa.,  died  Dec.  30,  2005.  Predeceased  by  his 
wife,  Jane  (Bevan),  in  2004,  he  leaves  two 
daughters.  Scharmann  was  a  Navy  veteran  of 
World  War  II,  who  pursued  a  civilian  career 
at  the  Naval  Air  Development  Center  and 
retired  as  a  branch  manager. 

Walter  S.  Knight  '41  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  Spring  Hill,  Fla.,  died  Aug.  19,  2005. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Lois,  and  two  children. 
Knight  was  retired  from  Wyman-Gordon 
Co.  after  42  years  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
in  the  Worcester  and  Chicago  plants. 

Herman  "Hank"  Medwin  '41  of  Pebble 
Beach,  Calif.,  died  Jan.  9,  2006.  He  was  the 
founder  and  CEO  of  Ocean  Acoustics 
Associates.  An  early  violin  prodigy,  Medwin 


enjoyed  playing  string  music  at  college  and 
later  endowed  the  Medwin  String  Ensemble 
and  the  Medwin  Chamber  Music  Scholar- 
ships at  WPI.  He  was  presented  with  an 
honorary  doctorate  in  1992.  His  wife,  Ella, 
survives  him. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  John  W.  Morse  '41  in  1999.  He  was 
founder  of  Engineering  Plastics  in  Worcester. 
His  wife,  Martha,  is  also  deceased.  They  had 
two  sons. 

Henry  Palley  '41  of  Worcester  died  Jan.  16, 
2006.  His  wife,  Marsha  (Sherman)  died  in 
1976.  Two  sons  survive  them.  Palley  was 
retired  as  co-owner  of  Louis  Palley  Tobacco 


hi: 


R  Gordon  Merrill  '42 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Tinton  Falls,  N.J.,  died 
Sept.  12,  2005.  He 
retired  from  Bell  Labora- 
tories in  1982.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Lola, 
and  three  children. 

Frederick  W.  Schneider  '42  (MS  ChE)  of 
Durham,  N.C.,  died  Oct.  7,  2005.  He  leav( 
his  wife,  Jean,  and  two  children.  Schneider 
retired  from  West  Virginia  University  at 
Parkersburg  in  1985  as  associate  professor 
emeritus  of  physics. 

Calvin  B.  Holden  '43 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Doylestown,  Pa.,  died 
Dec.  14,  2005,  leaving 
wife,  Frances  (Britton), 
and  four  sons.  He  was 
retired  from  PPG  as  a 
chemical  engineer.  A  devoted  volunteer  and  i 
collector  of  Scout  memorabilia,  he  turned 
his  home  into  a  museum.  He  also  worked  or( 
books  and  displays  for  Doylestown's  sesqui-  • 
centennial  history. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death1 
of  Frank  McNamara  '43  (Phi  Kappa  Theta/' 
in  1998.  His  wife,  Mary,  is  now  deceased. 
He  was  retired  from  Caterpillar  Inc. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death! 
of  James  S.  Proctor  '43  in  2004.  A  former  r| 
resident  of  Nova  Scotia,  Canada,  he  retired  Ij 
from  DuPont  de  Nemours  as  a  chemist. 

C.  Raymond  (Carl) 
Peterson  '44  of  Silver 
Spring,  Md.,  died  Nov. 
12,  2005,  leaving  his 
wife,  Pauline  (Mullis), 
and  a  daughter.  An  Arm) 
veteran  of  World  War  11,1 
Peterson  served  as  a  civilian  mechanical  en 
neer  at  the  Naval  Surface  Weapons  Center. 


4  4     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


UDiruanes 


Paul  I.  Pressel  '44  of  Vestal,  N.Y.,  died  Jan. 
16,  2006.  Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Rivella 
(Levin),  he  leaves  three  children.  He  worked 
as  an  electrical  engineer  for  Allied-Signal 
Corp/Bendix  and  Amphenol  Corp. 

Transformations  recently 
learned  of  the  death  of 
Warren  A.  Schilling  '44 
(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  in 
2003.  A  longtime  resident 
of  Moorestown,  N.J., 
he  worked  for  Cooper 
Hospital  as  senior  maintenance  engineer. 
He  was  predeceased  by  his  wife,  Sylvia,  and 
a  daughter.  Four  children  survive  them. 

Bertrand  A.  Rankin  '45  of  Newington, 
Conn.,  died  July  25,  2005,  leaving  his  wife, 
Beatrice  (Kraus),  and  two  children.  An 
accounting  graduate  of  the  University  of 
Hartford,  he  worked  at  Wiremold  Co.  as 
an  accountant  for  30  years. 

^^^^^      I  Transformations  recently 

^^r^^     I  learned  of  the  death  of 

rW  I  Irwin  G.  Benkert  '46  in 

*  **■  2003.  His  wife,  Kathryn, 

a  I  is  also  deceased.  He 

^^T^  I  worked  for  M.W.  Kellogg 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Henry  Sau  Chin  '46  in  2003.  Survivors 
included  his  wife,  Naida,  and  five  children. 
He  was  a  stockbroker  and  served  as  vice 
president  of  several  brokerage  firms. 

Louis  P.  Copian  '46  of  Cerritos,  Calif,  died 
Aug.  2,  2004.  He  was  an  engineering  man- 
ager for  Bechtel  Corp. 

Joseph  L.  Fischer  '46  of  Annapolis,  Md., 
died  Oct.  19,  2005.  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Rita,  he  leaves  two  children.  During  his 
career  in  naval  engineering,  Fischer  conduct- 
ed research  on  amphibious  vehicle  design 
and  developed  the  first  computerized  sched- 
ule for  submarine  repairs.  He  retired  as  tech- 
nical director  of  the  Office  of  Naval 
Research. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Warren  E.  Hall  '46  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
in  1994.  He  and  his  wife,  Evelyn  had  two 
children.  Hall  worked  in  sales  for  Viking 
Instruments. 

Willard  F.  Heintz  '46  of  Plainville,  Mass., 
died  July  19,  2005.  His  wife,  Joan  (Mitchie), 
predeceased  him.  After  retiring  as  an  archi- 
tectural engineer,  he  taught  high  school 
mathematics  for  several  years. 

Gordon  E.  Hitchcock  '46  of  East 
Brookfield,  Mass.,  died  Sept.  26,  2005.  He 
lost  his  wife,  Virginia  (Anderson),  in  1990, 


SAS  Seeks  "Stories  From  the  Hill" 

For  nearly  150  years,  WPI  has  stood  atop  the  hill, 

and  thousands  of  students  have  passed  through  its 

doors.  In  an  effort  to  gain  a  better  understanding  of 

what  WPI  once  was  and  what  it  has  become,  the 

Student  Alumni  Society  (SAS)   is  working  with  the 

Office  of  Alumni  Relations  on  a  project  to  span  the 

decades  and  bring  all  alumni  of  WPI  closer  together.  This  project  can  only  work  with  help  from 

you,  the  students  who  have  preceded  us  at  WPI.  We  seek  stories  from  alumni  of  every  decade, 

and  from  the  faculty  who  once  called  WPI  home. 

For  those  of  us  attending  WPI  in  2006,  it  is  nearly  impossible  to  imagine  life  without  our 
Campus  Center  or  the  computer  network,  but  these  are  actually  very  recent  additions  to 
campus.  We  want  to  know  what  life  was  like  without  these  modern  conveniences.  Where  did 
students  go  on  Friday  nights  for  a  little  fun?  Where  did  you  study?  Where  did  you  live?  What 
activities  did  you  enjoy? 

These  are  just  a  few  of  the  questions  this  project  aims  to  answer.  Tell  us  about  the  Rope  Pull  in 
1958,  or  watching  the  first  moon  walk  with  your  classmates  in  1969,  or  surviving  the  Blizzard 
of  '78,  which  brought  New  England  life  to  a  stop.  Share  your  stories  at  wheniwas@wpi.edu, 
or  mail  them  to  SAS,  Alumni  Relations,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 
You  also  may  submit  your  story  using  the  form  on  the  SAS  Web  site.  Go  to  wpi.edu/~sas  and 
click  on  When  I  Was  at  Tech. 

—  Liz  Kinnal  '08,  SAS  Historian 


and  is  survived  by  three  children.  Hitchcock 
earned  an  MBA  from  Clark  University  and 
worked  for  Rockwood  International 
Sprinkler  and  Cincinnati  Milacron  Heald 
Machine. 

John  L.  Jopson  '46  of  Bristol,  R.I.,  died 
July  16,  2005.  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Elizabeth  (Pratt),  he  leaves  a  son  and  three 
stepchildren.  Jopson  graduated  from  Trinity 
College  and  retired  as  owner  of  Todino 
Engineering  Sales. 

Thomas.  M.  McCaw  '46  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  West  Lafayette,  Ind.,  died  Nov. 
26,  2005.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Dorothy  (Newby),  and  three  children. 
McCaw  was  the  retired  president  of  Fairfield 
Manufacturing. 

Charles  D.  Seaver  '46  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa), 
formerly  of  Muncie,  Ind.,  died  Oct.  31, 
2005.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Catherine  (Clark), 
and  three  children.  He  was  retired  from  Ball 
State  University  as  an  energy  conservation 
engineer. 

William  T.  Wells  '46  of  Bowling  Green, 
Ky,  died  Oct.  26,  2005.  A  former  engineer- 
ing specialist  with  Chrysler  Corp.,  he  was 
part  of  the  design  team  for  the  company's 
original  minivan  and  developed  suspension, 
steering,  and  brake  systems  for  other  product 
lines.  Survivors  include  his  wife,  Helen,  and 
two  sons. 

James  S.  Nims  '47  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Greenfield,  Mass.,  died  Sept.  17,  2004,  leav- 


ing his  wife,  Carolyn.  He  was  a  retired  engi- 
neer for  Greenfield  Tap  &  Die. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Sydney  R.  Shell  '47  in  2002.  His  wife, 
Norma,  survives  him.  He  was  retired  from 
Unisys  Corp. 

John  R.  Murtha  '48  (Phi  Gamma  Delta)  of 
Roseville,  Calif,  died  Feb.  18,  2004,  leaving 
his  wife,  Alice,  and  three  children.  A  gradu- 
ate of  St.  John's  University  School  of  Law,  he 
was  a  private  practice  patent  attorney. 

James  R.  Fitzgerald  '49 

of  Holyoke,  Mass.,  died 
Oct.  17,2005.  He  was 
retired  from  Hamilton 
Sunstrand  as  an  electrical 
engineer.  Predeceased  by 
his  wife,  Agnes 
(Moriarty),  he  leaves  two  children. 

Daniel  B.  Levenson  '49  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi) 
ofWayland,  Mass.,  died  Jan.  30,  2005. 
Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Phyllis  (Goldstein), 
he  leaves  his  companion  of  many  years, 
Thelma  Myers.  Levenson  was  president  of 
E.D.E.  Inc. 

Jacob  L.  Breitbord  '50  of  Framingham, 
Mass.,  died  Nov.  3,  2005.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Ethel  (Firemark),  and  three  children.  He  was 
retired  from  Iotron  Corp. 

Robert  B.  LaRocque  '50  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Kennebunkport,  Maine,  died  Dec.  25, 
2005.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Jean  (O'Malley), 
and  two  children.  An  electrical  superintend- 


Transformations    |    Spring  2006     45 


Obituaries 


ent,  he  was  retired  from  Boise  Cascade  with 
25  years  of  service. 

John  R.  Taylor  '50 

of  North  Wales,  Pa., 
died  Dec.  30,  2005.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Marion 
(McCurdy),  and  three 
children.  Taylor,  a  veteran 
of  the  mainframe  era  of 
computing,  joined  Eckert-Mauchly,  which 
later  became  Unisys  Corp.,  in  the  1950s.  He 
earned  several  patents  for  a  power-supply 
device,  a  laser  printer,  and  other  innovations. 

Arthur  L.  Fisher  '51  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Melbourne  Beach,  Fla.,  died  Dec.  9,  2005. 
A  former  chemical  engineer,  he  received  a 
master  of  natural  science  degree  from  WPI 
in  1972  and  taught  mathematics  and  science 
in  the  Suffield,  Conn.,  school  system  for  the 
last  20  years  of  his  career.  Survivors  include 
his  wife,  Judith  (Hart),  his  son,  James  Fisher 
'78,  and  two  other  children. 

Sidney  Kessler  '51  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi)  of 
Centerville,  Mass.,  died  Oct.  24,  2005, 
leaving  his  wife,  Mildred  (Oven),  and  three 
sons.  He  was  predeceased  by  his  first  wife, 
Charlotte  (Gordon).  He  worked  forThiokol 
Corp. 

Vartkes  K.  Sohigian  '51  (Lambda  Chi 
Alpha)  of  Andover,  Mass.,  died  Dec.  26, 
2005.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Matilda 


(Germagian),  and  two  children.  He  earned 
an  MBA  at  Northeastern  University  and 
worked  in  human  resources  before  founding 
Varkey  K.  Sohigian  &c  Associates. 

George  K.  Tucker  '51  (MS  EE)  of  Medford, 
Ore.,  died  Nov.  5,  2005.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Jane,  and  four  children.  Tucker  joined  SRI 
International  in  1968  and  retired  in  1986  as 
a  senior  consultant. 

John  E.  Allen  Jr.  '53  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
West  Hartford,  Conn.,  died  Dec.  7,  2005, 
leaving  his  wife,  Sally  (Hutchinson).  He  was 
retired  from  a  45-year  career  with  The 
Foxboro  Company. 

Arnold  G.  Sharp  '53  (MS  ME),  a  former 
instructor  at  WPI,  died  Sept.  3,  2005,  in 
Cape  Cod  Hospital.  A  senior  engineer  at 
Woods  Hole  Oceanographic  Institute,  he 
also  had  a  private  consulting  practice  in 
stress  analysis  and  structural  design.  He 
leaves  his  longtime  friend  Bernice 
Salmonsen. 

Gerard  E.  Grise  '54  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Chicopee,  Mass.,  died  Oct.  3,  2005. 
A  longtime  chemical  engineer,  he  worked 
for  several  companies  before  retiring  from 
Dexter  Corp.  Survivors  include  his  wife, 
Corinne  (DeLuca),  and  four  children. 

Carl  A.  Hammar  '54  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  North  Palm  Beach,  Fla.,  died  July  9, 
2005.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Cynthia,  and  two 


children.  Hammar  was  a  retired  marketing     i 
engineer  for  United  Technologies  Corp. 

Robert  W.  Meyer  '54  (Phi  Kappa  Theta)  of 
Rockville  Centre,  N.Y.,  died  Sept.  11,  2005. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Norma  (Scarinzi),  and  a 
daughter.  His  son,  Charles  Meyer  '87,  died 
in  1992.  Meyer  was  retired  as  vice  president 
of  Johnson  &  Higgins. 

Henry  Utter  '54  (SIM)  of  Worcester  died 
Sept.  5,  2005,  leaving  his  wife,  Barbara 
(Loeffler)  and  three  children.  He  was  retired 
from  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp.,  where  he 
began  as  a  machine  operator  and  later  retired 
as  a  manager. 

Robert  T.  Betchley  '56  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  Mattapoisett,  Mass.,  died  Oct.  29,  2005. 
He  was  retired  from  General  Dynamics 
Electric  Boat,  where  he  spent  30  years  as  a 
nuclear  engineering  specialist.  He  is  survived 
by  his  wife,  Brenda  (Creamer),  three  chil- 
dren, and  three  stepchildren. 

Robert  R.  Heath  '56  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
ofWaltham,  Mass.,  died  Dec.  11,  2005. 
He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Patricia  (Nichols), 
and  three  children.  Heath  worked  for  Vibro- 
Meter  Corp. 

Vilho  A.  Lucander  '56  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
was  killed  in  a  tractor  accident  on  his 
Westminster,  Mass.,  farm  on  Oct.  27,  2005. 
He  was  retired  from  New  England  Power 
Company  as  a  plant  operator.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Eleanor,  and  three  sons. 


WPI  Plan  Author 

C.  William  Shipman,  former  professor  of  chemical 
engineering  and  dean  of  graduate  studies  at  WPI,  died 
Nov.  24,  2005,  in  Prospect  Harbor,  Maine,  after  a  brief 
illness.  At  WPI,  Shipman  is  best  remembered  as  the  chair 
of  the  Faculty  Planning  Committee  that  drafted  the  WPI 
Plan,  the  university's  innovative  approach  to  under- 
graduate education. 

Shipman  earned  a  BS,  MS,  and  PhD  in  chemical  engineer- 
ing at  MIT  and  taught  at  the  University  of  Delaware  and  at 
the  MIT  Fuel  Labs  before  joining  the  WPI  faculty  in  1958. 
He  was  known  for  his  award-winning  research  on  combus- 
tion and  jet  propulsion  and  for  his  novel  approach  to 
teaching  chemical  engineering  by  having  students  solve 
open-ended  problems. 

His  suggestion  in  the  late  1960s  that  WPI  needed  to 
reform  its  academic  program  caught  the  attention  of 
President  Harry  P.  Storke,  who  appointed  a  planning 


committee  of  young  faculty 
members  and  asked 
Shipman  to  serve  as  chair. 
Over  the  course  of  two 
years,  the  committee 
outlined  the  basis  for  the 
program  we  know  today 
as  the  WPI  Plan.  The  Plan 
was  approved  by  the 
faculty  in  May  1970. 

After  the  Plan's  passage, 
Shipman  became  dean  of  graduate  studies  at  WPI.  In 
1974,  he  accepted  a  position  as  director  of  research  and 
development  at  the  Carbon  Black  division  of  the  Cabot 
Corporation  in  Alpharetta,  Ga.  He  retired  in  1986,  and 
he  and  his  wife,  Louise,  became  permanent  residents  of 
Prospect  Harbor,  where  they  had  summered  for  many 
years.  He  is  survived  by  Louise,  his  wife  of  59  years,  three 
children,  and  two  grandchildren. 


46     Transformations    \   Spring  2006 


Obituaries 


John  H.  Britt  '59  (Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon) 
of  Canton,  Mass.,  died  Nov.  30,  2005.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Loretta,  and  two  children. 
Britt  was  retired  as  executive  director  of  the 
Massachusetts  Hospital  School. 

William  C.  Hees  '59  (Theta  Chi)  of  Dix 
Hills,  N.Y.,  died  Sept.  23,  2005.  A  manufac- 
turers representative  for  R.P.  Luce  &  Co.,  he 
authored  numerous  papers  on  the  design  of 
electro-mechanical  components,  and  special- 
ized packaging  and  cabinetry  for  electronics 
equipment.  Three  sons  survive  him. 

Erdic  G.  Nichols  '59  (SIM)  of  Paxton, 
Mass.,  died  Oct.  7,  2005.  He  was  91.  A 
longtime  employee  of  Rexnord,  he  retired  as 
manager  of  quality  control.  His  wife,  Marian 
(McGovern),  survives  him. 

William  E.  Shumway  '59  (SIM),  a  former 
vice  president  and  production  manager  at 
Woodbury  &  Co.,  died  Nov.  25,  2005,  at 
age  81.  He  was  a  longtime  resident  of 
Worcester.  Survivors  include  his  wife, 
Charlotte  (Crandall),  and  three  children. 

Donald  E.  Cloud  '60  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  Fort  Myers,  Fla.,  died  May  20,  2005.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Kristine,  and  three  children. 
Cloud  was  the  retired  president  of  Country 
Home  Development  Corp. 

John  E  Kane  '60  (MNS)  of  Rutland,  Mass., 
died  Dec.  31,  2005.  He  was  74.  A  former 
high  school  mathematics  teacher  and  profes- 
sor at  Anna  Maria  College,  he  also  owned 
and  operated  Jack's  Trains  hobby  shop  in 
Rutland.  His  wife,  Ila  (Sundin),  and  three 
children  survive  him. 

Donald  C.  MacMillan  '60  of  Methuen, 
Mass.,  died  July  21,  2004,  leaving  his  wife, 
Phyllis,  and  three  sons.  He  worked  for 
Textron  Defense  Systems  as  a  project 
manager. 

Edward  E  Bedard  '61  (SIM)  of  Worcester 
died  Jan.  15,  2006,  at  the  age  of  9 1 .  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Constance  (Waitkus),  and 
four  daughters.  Bedard  was  a  factory  manag- 
er at  Lodding  Engineering  Corp. 

E.  Randall  Morse  '61  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Amherst,  Mass.,  died  Dec.  2,  2005.  Morse 
began  his  career  with  the  Federal  Aviation 
Administration  after  graduation  and  retired 
from  the  Boston  Air  Route  Traffic  Control 
Center  in  1994  as  principal  software  engi- 
neer. His  accomplishments  included  author- 
ship of  the  Optimization  and  Integration 
Handbook  for  the  Common  Digitizer  (CD-2) 
and  design  specifications  for  data  reduction 
software.  His  wife,  Denise  (Wild),  and  three 
sons  survive  him. 


Ralph  S.  "Stan"  Jacobsen  '62  of  West 
Boylston,  Mass.,  and  Moody  Beach,  Maine, 
died  Oct.  3,  2005.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Irene 
(Gedymin),  and  two  children.  He  was  a 
longtime  traffic  manager  for  G.  F.  Wright 
Steel  &  Wire  Co. 

Earle  R.  Laste  Jr.  '67  (PhD)  of  Westford, 
Mass.,  died  Nov.  27,  2004.  He  was  retired 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Lowell 
as  professor  emeritus  of  electrical  engineer- 
ing. He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Thelma 
(Williams),  and  three  children.  A  son  prede- 
ceased him. 

Rachael  N.  Stone  '67  (formerly  Raymond  J. 
Fortin)  of  Westford,  Mass.,  and  Worcester, 
died  Dec.  31,  2005.  A  former  self-employed 
real  estate  appraiser  and  sales  executive  for 
Digital  and  MITRE  Corp.,  she  was  active  in 
the  transgender  community.  She  is  survived 
by  two  daughters. 

Gregory  C.  Cox  '68  (Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon) 
died  Aug.  28,  2005,  at  his  home  in  Burke, 
Va.  His  first  wife,  Polly  (Carmean),  died  in 
1984.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife  of  18  years, 
Pam  (Butterbaugh),  two  children  from  his 
first  marriage,  and  two  stepsons.  Cox  retired 
from  a  chemical  engineering  career  with  the 
Naval  Surface  Warfare  Center  in  2000  and 
then  did  consulting  work  on  computer  net- 
works. 

Mohammed  E.  Habib  '74  of  Worcester 
died  Dec.  1 1,  2005,  after  a  short  illness.  He 
leaves  his  mother,  Shamsun  Habib,  and  five 
siblings.  He  worked  as  a  taxi  driver  in  the 
Worcester  area. 

Elmer  J.  Suomu  74  (SIM)  of  Palm  Beach, 
Fla.,  died  Dec.  16,  2005.  He  was  83. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Miriam,  and  two 
sons.  Suomu  retired  from  the  marketing 
division  of  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  as  manager  of 
proposals  and  pricing. 

Ahmed  "Steve"  Shahbazi  '76  of  Worcester 
died  Oct.  19,  2005.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Susan  (Guinee),  and  three  children.  He  was 
self-employed  as  a  painting  contractor. 

Thomas  C.  Beaudin  '83  of  Woburn,  Mass., 
died  unexpectedly  on  Nov.  18,  2005.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Barbara  (Smith),  and  four 
children.  Beaudin  served  as  property  man- 
agement supervisor  for  Honeywell  (now 
Bull),  and  also  worked  for  CB  Richard  Ellis 
Properties. 

Police  detective  John  M.  Piskator  '87  of 

Key  West,  Fla.,  died  Jan.  23,  2006,  after  he 
collapsed  while  jogging  with  fellow  officers. 
A  former  airborne  ranger  and  intelligence 
officer  for  the  U.S.  Army,  he  joined  the  Key 
West  police  force  in  2004,  after  graduating 


from  the  Institute  of  Criminal  Justice  at 
Florida  Keys  Community  College.  He  also 
held  a  master's  degree  from  the  Military 
Intelligence  College.  He  is  survived  by  a  son. 

Raymond  J.  Noel  '89  (SIM)  of  Auburn, 
Mass.,  died  Sept.  13,  2005,  at  the  age  of  72. 
A  former  machinist  for  Norton  Co.,  he 
returned  to  school  to  earn  his  diploma  from 
Doherty  High  School  and  a  certificate  from 
the  School  of  Industrial  Management  from 
WPI,  and  retired  from  Norton  in  1991  as  an 
industrial  engineer.  Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Esther  (Staples),  and  two  children. 

Alicje  A.  Cornelissen  '93  (MS  FPE)  of 
Aylmer,  Quebec,  Canada,  died  Dec.  12, 
2005,  from  complications  related  to  lupus. 
She  leaves  her  husband,  Rory  Gooderham, 
and  two  children.  An  expert  in  fire  safety 
and  building  code  development,  she  worked 
for  the  Cement  Association  of  Canada. 

Corrections:  In  obituaries  that  appeared 
the  Winter  2005  issue,  Transformations 
misidentified  Richard  T.  Gates  '42  and 
John  P.  Morrill  '53  as  members  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon.  They  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon. 


Alumni  who  wish  to  make  contributions 
in  memory  of  classmates  and  friends 
may  contact  WPVs  office  of  University 
Advancement  at  508-831-5660  or 
acolgan  @wpi.  edu. 


Transformations    \   Spring  2006    47 


Time  Capsule 


Testing  the  Waters 


During  the  1940s,  much  of  the  work  at  the  Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory  in  Holden  (now  Alden  Research  Laboratory) 
centered  on  then-classified  research  involving  high-speed  water  entry  of  projectiles,  such  as  torpedoes,  for  the  U.S.  Navy. 
Here,  in  a  photograph  dated  from  the  same  period,  students  use  current  meters  to  map  the  flow  upstream  of  a  spillway  in 
order  to  optimally  position  a  diversion  wall.  Students  frequently  conducted  course  laboratories  at  AHL,  exemplifying  the 
practical  application  of  their  classroom  theory.  The  research  laboratory  was  founded  in  1  894  by  George  Alden,  as  an 
extension  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Department.  Today,  as  an  independent  entity,  it  remains  the  oldest  continuously 
operated  hydraulic  laboratory  in  the  United  States,  maintaining  close  connections  to  WPI.  Students  in  the  ME  and  Civil 
and  Environmental  Engineering  departments  often  use  the  lab  for  their  MQP  research.  Additionally,  ARL  houses  a  firefighter 
clothing  test  facility,  sponsored  in  2001  by  the  U.S.  Navy's  Clothing  and  Textile  Research  Facility  in  Natick,  Mass., 
which  is  used  by  WPI's  fire  protection  engineering  students  and  faculty. 


AS     Tran  s  format  ions    \   Spring  2006 


Ill 

tf^W/J  »J  1 

Rbi/ak\j 

^^86S^^? 

Graduate  Studies 

in  Science 

Engineering 

Discover.  Innovate.  Advance. 


Full-time,  part-time,  or  just  one  course  - 


►V 


WPIs  Science  and  Engineering  Graduate  Programs  feature  world-class  faculty  and 
facilities.  WPIs  graduate  students  and  faculty  work  closely  together  in  a  number  of 
cutting-edge  research  areas,  leading  to  breakthroughs  and  innovations  in  such  fields  as 
biotechnology,  fuel  cells,  nanotechnology,  and  information  security.  Opportunities  for 
fellowships,  teaching,  and  research  assistantships  for  full-time  students  are  available. 


Graduate  Programs  at  WPI: 

•  Biology  and  Biotechnology 

•  Biomedical  Engineering 

•  Chemical  Engineering 

•  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry 

•  Civil  and  Environmental  Engineering 

•  Computer  Science 

•  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering 

•  Fire  Protection  Engineering 
The  following  programs  are  available  online:  Environmental  Engineering, 
Fire  Protection  Engineering,  Management,  and  System  Dynamics. 


•  Management 

•  Manufacturing  Engineering 

•  Materials  Process  Engineering 

•  Materials  Sciences  and  Engineering 

•  Mathematical  Sciences 

•  Mechanical  Engineering 

•  Physics 

•  Social  Science  and  Policy  Studies 


irmation    Thursday,  August  24,  6  p.m.  •  WPI  Campus  Center 


Session 


J 


Register  to  attend  at  grad.wpi.edu  or  call  508-831-5301 

Fall  classes  start  week  of  September  5. 


[aduate  Studies  at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  •  gse@wpi.edu  •   508-831-5301 


-r-r  c-_  ::-::- 

S330  PS"' 
710391688 
Rodney  G.  Obten 
168  Briar  Bush  Rd 
Canterbury  NH  03224-2600 


III II,„I,I„I.I.LI..I.I.II..II.„IIm..II..I..I.I.mII 


By  1880,  Washburn  &  Moen's  North  Works  was  one  of  the  largest  factories  in  America. 
(The  North  Works  complex  includes  three  groups  of  buildings,  built  between  1861  and  the  1930s. 
Washburn  &  Moen  employed  more  than  2,000  people  and  manufactured  barbed  wire,  as  well 
as  wire  used  in  textile  machinery,  telegraph  systems,  pianos,  corset  stays,  hoop  skirts,  and  in  the 
construction  of  bridges.  Washburn  &  Moen  eventually  became  part  of  American  Steel  &  Wire 
Company,  which,  in  turn,  became  U.S.  Steel.  Abandoned  in  1943,  the  complex  now  serves 
a  diverse  group  of  commercial  and  small  manufacturers.  North  Works  photograph,  circa  1927, 
courtesy  of  the  Worcester  Historical  Museum. 


■s- 


FALL     2006 


JOURNAL      OF 


PIO 


Education  Innovation 


** 


Inside 
A  Discussion  with  President  Dennis  Berke 


4 

4K 


>» 


Departments 


2  Starting  Point 

3  Letters 

4  A  Message  from 
the  Provost 

5  Campus  Buzz 

Bartlett  Center  opens  its  doors;  WPI 
research  team  receives  $1.8  million  grant; 
a  look  back  at  WPI's  138th  Commencement- 
two  new  deans  begin  their  tenure;  and 
more. 

1 2  EntrepreneurshSp 

Richard  Resnick  '98  hears  ringing  all  the 
way  to  the  bank. 

1 3  Inside  WPI 

The  future  is  bright  for  Sunny  Manivannan  '07 

1 4  Explorations 

An  IQP  team  turns  child's  play  into 
serious  business. 

1 6      The  Big  Picture 

Anne  St.  Martin  '06  brings  new  meaning 
to  the  term  global  education.' 

1 8       Investigations 

Neil  Heffernan  is  on  a  quest  to  help  eighth 
grade  students  pass  the  state-mandated 
math  test. 

34      Alumni  Connections 

A  message  from  Morgan  Rees  '61, 
president  of  the  Alumni  Association; 
a  look  back  at  Reunion. 

36       Class  Notes 
45       Obituaries 
48      Time  Capsule 


About  the  cover 

WPI  students  turn  their  classroom  learning  into  action 
in  the  lab  and,  literally,  in  the  field.  Cover  concept  by 
Pamela  Mecca.  Photography  by  Patrick  O'Connor. 
This  page:  photography  by  Dan  Vaillancourt. 


20       Imagine  and  Achieve 

Two  years  after  taking  office,  President  Dennis  Berkey  shares  his  thoughM 
on  the  university's  progress  and  our  future  direction. 

24       Reflecting  on  the  Plan 

The  Plan,  WPI's  innovative  curriculum,  turns  35  this  year. 


[ 


VOLUME    105,      NUMBER    1 
FALL    2006 


m 


\ 


Leading  the  Way 

Concerned  about  the  quality  of  math  and  science  programs  in  his 
son's  school,  Richard  Liebich  '66  took  matters  into  his  own  hands. 

Printing  the  Pipeline 

WPI  is  a  leader  in  pre-engineering  programs  for  middle  and 
high  school  students. 


30       Educated  . . .  for  Life 

Domenico  Grasso  '77  and  Emily  Dodd  '03 
are  teaching  and  influencing  the  next 
generation  of  scientists  and  engineers. 


Teach  your  children  well... 

In  a  previous  life,  1  was  a  reporter  for  a  daily  paper  in  Connecticut.  On 

one  particular  evening  in  the  newsroom,  I  was  arguing  with  my  colleagues 
over  some  numbers— percentages— that  were  to  appear  in  a  graphic  in  the 
next  day's  paper.  We  couldn't  agree  on  the  correct  numbers,  or  even  how  to 
compute  them.  And  all  1  could  think  was:  We're  smart,  educated,  reasonable 
adults.  Whv  can't  we  figure  out  a  simple  math  problem? 

Until  recently,  I'd  chuckle  when  1  thought  about  that  evening.  I  liked  to 
think  that  the  pressure  of  our  looming  deadline  had  temporarily  frozen  our 
brains,  rendering  us  absolutely  useless  in  math.  But  oyer  the  past  few  months 
as  1  worked  on  this  issue  of  Transformations,  which  focuses  on  innovative 
approaches  to  education— and,  more  specifically,  innovative  approaches  to 
math,  science,  and  engineering  education  in  the  21st  century— the  humor 
of  that  moment  faded.  It  began  to  seem  indicative  of  a  larger  issue. 

i  ordirrg  to  the  National  Assessment  of  Educational  Progress,  onlv  17 
percent  of  high  school  seniors  arc  considered  proficient  in  math.  This  statistic 
is  just  one  of  the  findings  in  the  much-anticipated  report  from  the  U.S. 
Secretary  of  Education's  Commission  on  the  Future  of  Higher  Education. 

As  we  go  to  press,  the  commission — 19  individuals  from  academia, 
business,  and  government— is  finalizing  its  report,  which  will  recommend  a 
national  strategy  to  strengthen  postsecondarv  education.  In  a  preliminary 
draft,  the  commission  states  that  U.S.  college  graduates  are,  on  the  whole,  less 
educated  than  their  counterparts  overseas.  If  the  United  States  is  to  remain 
globally  competitive,  the  report  says,  universities  must  enhance  and  improve 
student  learning,  an  effort  that  shouldn't  be  limited  to  the  upper  echelons  of 
academia,  but  shared  by  everyone— WO-  and  four-year  public  and  private 
universities,  community  colleges,  and  the  K- 1 2  system.  As  1  read  the  draft, 
1  noted  rwo  recommendations: 

"America's  colleges  and  universities  [should]  embrace  a  culture  of 
continuous  innovation  and  quality  improvement...  particularly  in 
the  area  of  science  and  mathematical  literacy." 
"The  United  States  must  ensure  the  capacity  of  its  universities  to 
achieve  global  leadership  in  key  strategic  areas  such  as  scaence,  engi- 
neering, medicine,  and  other  knowledge-intensive  professions." 

For  me,  these  points  suggest  that  the  country  needs  more  schools  like 
W  PI,  for  the  university  is  already  well  positioned  to  fully  educate  the  next 
generation.  Our  approach  to  learning,  where  education  is  truly  put  into 
action,  is  what  has  led  our  alumni  to  become,  yes,  scientists  and  engineers, 
but  also  leaders,  managers,  entrepreneurs,  problem  sobers,  critical  thinkers. 

The  pages  that  follow  offer  a  sampling  of  the  relevant  and  vital  work 
being  done  by  those  in  our  community  We  sit  down  with  President  Dennis 
Berkev,  who  talks  about  the  university's  progress  and  the  direction  were 
headed.  And  to  put  this  article  into  context,  we  look  back  at  35  years  of  the 
W  PI  Plan.  We  also  feature  the  inspirational  stories  of  various  alumni  whose 
work  directly  impacts  the  quality  of  science  and  engineering  education,  and 
the  quality  of  future  engineers  themseh 

There's  more — an  intelligent  tutoring  svstem  designed  by  a  CS  professor 
helps  youngsters  learn  math.  And  a  project  team  makes  a  difference  in  the 
lives  of  blind  children. 

Thanks  for  reading. 

Chama  Wcstervelt,  Editot 


Charna  Wcstervelt 

Editor 

Christopher  Hardwuk 

Vice  President,  Marketing  and 

Communications 

Michael  W.  Dotsey 

Director  of  Research  Communications 

Bonnie  McCrea 
Production  Manager 

Peggv  Isaacson 

Graphic  Designer  and  Copy  Editor 

]oan  Killough-Miller 
Alumni  News  Editor 

Patrick  O'Connor 
Principal  Photographer 

redesign,  pascal 
Design 

Mark  Fisher 
Department  Icons 


Alumni  Communications  Committee 

Robcri  C.  Labontc  "S4.  chair;  Philip  \  W  t>2), 

lames  S.  Dcmetrv  'S8,  'William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60.  William  R. 
Grogan  '46,  Elizabeth  1.  Howland.  Alumni  Relations  and 
Annual  Giving;  Douglas  W.  Klaubet  '68.  Howard  H.  Le\ine 
72,  Megan  M.  l.indhcrg  04.  Amy  L  (Plaek)  Marr  '%. 
Harlan  B.  Williams   SO 

Editorial  Board 

Gina  Berti.  Collaborative  for  F.ntrepreneurship  and  Innovation* 
Lisa  Oavenock.  Management;  Anne  McPartland  Dodd  75s 
Hossein  Hakim.  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering;  Dank 
Harmon.  Phvsical  Education.  Recreation,  and  Athl, 
Hill.  Divcrsitv  Programs;  Naialic  Mello.  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies;  Robert  Oborne,  University  Advancement; 
Dcnisc  Rodino.  Corporate  and  Foundation  Relations;  Robert 
Thompson.  Chemical  Engineering;  Richard  Ya?,  Electrical  aft 
Computet  Engineering,  and  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies. 

ww>v.vvTpi.edu/+Transformations 
e-mail:  transformations@wpi.edu 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  M 
reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editor  or  official  WP1  policies. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editot,  Transformations. 

WTI.  100  Institute  Road.  Worcester.  MA  01600-2:80.  Pho 
S0S-S31-6-1S;  has:  SOS-S?  1 -S820. 

Transformatu  i  SSN  558-  50* I  is  published  quarterly  by 
rhe  Division  of  Marketing  and  Communications  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Associanon.  Printed  in  ISA  bv  Mercantile/Image  Pre 

Penodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcesrer.  Mass.,  and  at  addmonal 
mailing  offices.  Posrmaster;  please  send  address  chanc- 

;  HDR  contents  ©  2006.  Worcester  PolvrechnK  lnsnrute 


Teaching  with  Transformations 

I  was  visiting  my  son,  Jason  Tolderlund  '92,  recently  and 
came  across  a  copy  of  the  Transformations  spring  2006  issue. 
This  fall  I  will  be  teaching  a  class  in  marine  pollution  at  the 
U.S.  Coast  Guard  Academy  and  found  the 
articles  on  water  to  be  very  relevant  to  several 
of  my  planned  topics.  I  plan  to  use  copies  of 
the  issue  as  supplementary  reading  material 
for  my  students. 

Douglas  Tolderlund 

Old  Lyme,  Conn. 

A  good  approach 

To  everyone  involved  with  its  creation  and 
production,  congrats  on  a  terrific  issue  of 
Transformations.  It  gives  a  great  insight  into 
WPI's  approach  to  teaching,  the  relevance 
of  its  research,  and  its  great  prospects  for 
the  future. 

I  suggest  mailing  it  out  to  thousands  of 
people  in  relevant  audiences,  far  and  wide.  It  is  much  more 
effective  in  communicating  what  WPI  is  about  than  radio 
or  television  advertising. 

Erwin  Danneels 

WPI  Associate  Professor,  Management 

A  call  to  get  involved 

I'm  writing  to  encourage  graduates  to  help  our  public  schools 
(K-12)  improve  their  math  and  science  performance.  WPI 
graduates  have  a  great  deal  to  offer  public  schools  and  it  can 
be  very  rewarding  to  give  something  back  to  your  community. 
Volunteering  for  a  school  committee,  judging  a  science  fair, 
or  becoming  a  math  and/or  science  tutor  does  not  require  a 
lot  of  time  and  you  may  make  a  difference  in  the  life  of  a 
student.  I've  enjoyed  being  a  volunteer  for  a  local  nonprofit 
organization  (www.LLSTA.org)  that  visits  5th  and  6th  graders 
to  discuss  what  engineers  and  scientist  do  at  work. 

Bill  Rutherford  73 

Lititz,  Pa. 

A  clean  photo 

As  an  '02  graduate  of  WPI  and  a  daily  visitor  to  the  wafer  fab 
clean-room  at  Allegro  MicroSystems  in  Worcester,  I  couldn't 
help  but  chuckle  at  the  two  clean-room  pictures  in  the  spring 
issue.  If  particle  contamination  is  the  concern  trying  to  be 


prevented  by  a  clean-room,  and  it  usually  is,  those  hoods 
need  to  be  tucked  in.  They're  not  going  to  do  much  in  the 
way  of  preventing  skin  and  hair  particles  from  falling  down, 
onto  hands,  and  onto  product,  when  worn  like  that. 

Brian  J.  Conway  02 

Hudson,  Mass. 

The  photographs  do  not  depict  actual 
operations  in  the  lab  but,  rather,  stu- 
dents modeling  the  protective  outfits 
for  our  camera.  It  appears  that  our 
models  and  photographer  have  a  thing 
or  two  to  learn  about  proper  clean- 
room  attire.  Transformations  thanks 
Mr.  Conway  for  pointing  out  our 
photographic  faux  pas.  Our  readers 
may  feel  confident  that  when  it  really 
counts,  our  lab  hoods  are  tucked  in. 
—Ed. 

A  model  alumnus 

I  just  read  the  article  on  Philip  Giantris  '65  ["Reaching  Out 
to  Water  Stressed  Countries,"  spring  2006  Transformations}. 
The  article  was  forwarded  to  me  by  one  of  my  colleagues 
who  knew  that  I  had  worked  with  Philip  in  Albania  for  two 
years.  I  want  to  commend  the  author,  Joanne  Silver,  for 
doing  an  outstanding  job  of  capturing  the  life  and  spirit  of 
Giantris.  I  hope  that  articles  like  this  will  serve  as  an  inspiration 
and  encouragement  to  other  WPI  alumni.  We  need  more 
people  like  Giantris  who  will  use  their  talents  and  training, 
combined  with  the  perseverance  it  takes  to  make  it  through 
a  demanding  engineering  curriculum,  to  make  great  contri- 
butions to  the  world.  This  was  my  first  exposure  to  Transfor- 
mations; I  must  say  that  I  was  impressed  by  the  high  quality 
and  vibrancy  of  the  articles,  and  by  the  great  things  that  are 
being  done  by  those  who  have  passed  through  WPI. 

Charles  M.  Pike  Jr. 

Wakefield,  Mass. 


Correction:  Yatao  Liu,  a  chemical  engineering  graduate  student, 
won  first  place  in  the  life  sciences  and  bioengineering  category 
at  WPI's  first  Graduate  Research  Achievement  Day  in  March. 
Transformations  regrets  the  misspelling  of  his  name  in  the 
spring  issue  of  the  magazine. 


Transformations    I   Fall  2006    3 


message    from 


Provost  Carol  Simpson 


As  I  reflect  on  my  first  full  year  as  provost,  I  am  struck  by  the 
extraordinary  level  of  commitment  from  WPI's  faculty  and  staff, 
not  only  to  significant  advances  in  research  and  scholarship,  but 
to  the  continual  enhancement  of  our  signature  programs.  For 
decades,  WPI  has  led  the  way  in  developing  interdisciplinary  and 
global  educational  programs,  and  will  continue  to  do  so.  This  type 
of  undergraduate  experience  is  crucial  for  the  next  generation  of 
leaders,  thinkers,  managers,  and  entrepreneurs. 

For  examples  of  WPI's  commitment  to  interdisciplinary  education, 
I  need  look  no  further  than  the  increasingly  diverse  nature  of  our 
unique  Interactive  Qualifying  Projects.  I  also  look  to  the  creation 
of  the  highly  successful  Interactive  Media  and  Game  Development 
program,  which  sent  forth  its  first  graduate  this  year  and  is 
attracting  a  large  number  of  new  and  enthusiastic  students.  And 
I  look  to  the  new  Environmental  Engineering  degree  program, 
which  draws  on  faculty  from  the  departments  of  Civil  and 
Environmental  Engineering,  Chemical  Engineering,  Mechanical 
Engineering,  and  Physics,  and  allows  students  to  begin  solving 
environmental  problems  rather  than  focus  on  the  degree 
requirements  of  a  specific  disciplinary  major. 

I  am  excited  to  report  that  we  have  increased  our  undergraduate 
offerings  to  include  System  Dynamics  and  Aerospace  Engineering; 
new  graduate  programs  include  System  Engineering,  Information 
Technology,  and  Operations  Design  and  Leadership.  Additionally, 
this  year,  for  the  first  time,  WPI  will  offer  students  the  option  of 
earning  the  bachelor  of  arts  degree,  an  enhancement  to  our 
program  approved  by  the  faculty  last  spring.  Preparations  are  also 
under  way  for  new  cross-disciplinary  programs  in  bioinformatics 
and  robotics  engineering,  both  of  which  are  areas  of  high 
demand  from  industry. 

WPI's  interdisciplinary  emphasis  is  mirrored  in  our  research 
activities,  since,  so  often,  solutions  to  important  societal  problems 
require  that  teams  of  experts  from  several  disciplines  work  together. 
This  approach  is  the  future  of  research  at  WPI.  Its  success  was 
seen  this  year  in  our  record-breaking  $16.5  million  in  externally 
funded  research  grants,  many  of  which  involve  interdisciplinary 
teams.  (Such  is  the  case  in  the  Center  for  Untethered  Health  Care, 
where  faculty  from  three  departments— Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering,  Mechanical  Engineering,  and  Chemistry  and 
Biochemistry— cooperate  to  solve  critical  problems  in  the  remote 
monitoring  of  patients.) 

External  recognition  for  the  quality  of  WPI's  faculty  research  and 
scholarship  comes  in  many  forms: 

■  Jennifer  Wilcox,  assistant  professor  of  chemical  engineering, 
was  lauded  as  one  of  only  a  dozen  "New  Faces  in  Engineering 
of  2006"  by  the  Engineers  Week  Foundation,  having  been 
nominated  for  this  honor  by  the  National  Science  Foundation. 


■  Wilcox  also  obtained 
a  highly  prestigious 
and  competitive  NSF 
CAREER  award,  as 
did  Donald  Brown, 
assistant  professor 
ofECE,  and  Neil 
Heffernan,  assistant 
professor  of  computer 
science  (see  article  on 
Heffernan,  page  18). 
These  three  professors 

brought  the  total  number  of  CAREER  awards  to  WPI  faculty  to  an 
astounding  19  since  1995. 

■  Diran  Apelian,  Howmet  Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering, 
received  two  of  the  highest  honors  bestowed  by  the  Minerals, 
Metals  and  Materials  Society:  fellowship  in  the  society  and  the 
2006  Bruce  Chalmers  award  for  outstanding  contributions  to 
the  science  and  technology  of  solidification  science. 

■  Michael  Sokal,  professor  emeritus  of  history,  was  honored 
with  the  2006  Society  for  the  History  of  Psychology's  Lifetime 
Achievement  award  for  his  contributions  to  the  field. 

■  Gretar  Tryggvason,  ME  professor,  was  awarded  the  2005 
Computational  Mechanics  Award  by  the  Japan  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers. 

■  David  Lucht,  director  emeritus  of  WPI's  Center  for  Firesafety 
Studies,  was  honored  by  the  inauguration  of  the  "David  A.  Lucht 
Lamp  of  Knowledge  Award"  from  the  Society  of  Fire  Protection 
Engineers  for  significant  contributions  to  the  advancement  of 
higher  education. 

■  Erwin  Danneels,  associate  professor  of  management,  received 
the  2006  Thomas  P.  Husted  award  for  the  best  paper  published 
in  the  Journal  of  Product  Innovation  Management. 

■  Bogdan  Vernescu,  mathematics  professor,  has  been  named  a 
Member  of  Honor  of  the  Romanian  Academy  Institute  of 
Mathematics. 

■  Roberto  Pietroforte,  CEE  associate  professor,  will  be  granted  the 
rank  of  Cavaliere  Ufficiale  in  the  Order  of  Merit  of  the  Republic 
of  Italy,  for  distinguished  work  and  exceptional  service  to  his 
native  country. 

This  small  selection  of  the  many  high  honors  and  awards  that 
WPI's  professors  have  received  this  year  underscores  the  quality  of 
our  faculty  and  of  our  programs.  I  look  forward  to  sharing  more 
of  their  successes  with  you  in  future  editions  of  Transformations. 


A     Transformations    I    Fall  2  006 


CampusBuzz 


New  VP  of  Development  and  Alumni  Relations 

In  April,  WPI  welcomed  Dexter  Bailey  to  the  community  as  vice  president  of  development  and  alumni  relations,  overseeing  all 
fund-raising  and  outreach  activities  with  the  university's  alumni. 

Bailey  most  recently  directed  external  relations  for  intercollegiate  athletics  at  the  University  of  California, 
Berkeley,  where  he  helped  raise  $150  million  in  gifts  and  pledges  for  intercollegiate  athletics— the  most 
successful  fund-raising  performance  at  the  university. 

Before  joining  Berkeley,  he  served  as  assistant  dean  for  development  and  external  relations  at  the  University 
of  Washington's  School  of  Law  and  as  assistant  dean  for  development  and  alumni  affairs  for  Ohio  University's 
College  of  Education.  Prior  to  that,  he  was  press  secretary  for  the  Ohio  House  of  Representatives.  He  earned 
a  BS  in  Journalism  from  Ohio  University  and  an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Toledo. 


Surrounded  by  family  and  friends,  Jim  and  Shirley  Bartlett 
ceremoniously  open  the  building  named  in  their  honor. 

Now  home  to  admissions  and  financial  aid,  Bartlett  Center  opened  its  doors  this  spring  and  a  ceremonial  dedication  was  held  in 
June.  Located  on  the  east  end  of  the  campus  quadrangle,  the  center  is  named  for  entrepreneur  James  L.  Bartlett  Jr.  '39  and  his  wife, 
Shirley  V.  Bartlett,  whose  donation  made  the  building  possible. 

Designed  by  CBT/Childs  Bertman  Tseckares  Inc.  in  Boston,  Bartlett  Center  is  the  first  building  on  campus  to  be  registered  with  the  U.S. 
Green  Building  Council;  it  was  designed  as  a  "green  building"  by  using  sustainable  design  principles  under  the  Leadership  in  Energy 
and  Environmental  Design  (LEED)  program,  such  as  using  local  and  renewable  building  materials,  recycling  90  percent  of  construction 
materials,  reducing  energy  costs,  and,  overall,  ensuring  a  better  work  environment. 

"The  Bartletts  have  made  yet  another  impactful  and  generous  contribution  to  WPI  that  is  having  such  a  transforming  effect  on  this  campus," 
President  Dennis  Berkey  said  at  the  dedication.  "I'm  pleased  that  the  building  is  consistent  with  the  values  and  heritage  of  WPI." 

James  Bartlett  thanked  the  WPI  trustees  for  their  foresight  and  commitment  to  a  project  that  began  three  years  ago.  "We're  tremendously 
pleased  that  the  Bartlett  name  is  on  the  entrance,  but  we're  mindful  that  there  are  many  other  people  who  were  involved  to  make  this 
happen,"  he  said. 

Shirley  Bartlett  spoke  of  the  continuing  influence  the  building  will  have  on  students  now  and  in  the  future.  Commenting  on  why  she  and  her 
husband  wanted  to  make  a  difference  at  WPI,  she  said,  "We  like  to  do  things  that  are  needed." 


Transformations    I    Fall  2  006     5 


MoreBuzz 


«• '   0  _   ^    |  . 


Collaboration  to  Regenerate  Limbs 

WPI  and  CellThera  Inc.,  a  Worcester-based  biotechnology  start-up  firm,  have  signed 
an  agreement  to  conduct  joint  research  aimed  at  developing  techniques  for  restoring 
tissue  — including  digits  and  limbs— damaged  or  lost  due  to  traumatic  injury. 

As  part  of  the  agreement,  Tanja  Dominko,  CellThera 's  president  and  chief  scientific 
officer,  and  senior  scientist  Raymond  Page  will  hold  research  faculty  appointments  at 
WPI.  The  research  will  be  conducted  in  laboratories  on  campus  and,  beginning  next 
spring,  in  the  new  WPI  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park. 
Faculty  members  with  expertise  in  tissue  engineering,  wound  healing,  stem  cells, 
and  related  fields  are  also  expected  to  be  involved  in  the  project. 

WPI's  Bioengineering  Institute  director  W.  Grant  McGimpsey  notes  that  this  collaboration  exemplifies  the  type  of  industry-university 
partnerships  that  BEI  and  Gateway  Park  are  seeking.  "Through  these  vehicles,"  he  says,  "WPI  brings  together  scientists  engaged  in 
cutting-edge  research  in  the  life  sciences  and  companies  and  organizations  that  can  translate  new  discoveries  into  products  and 
technologies  that  can  improve  the  effectiveness  of  health  care  and  the  quality  of  our  lives." 

CellThera  is  a  collaborator  on  a  multi-institution  research  program  funded  by  a  one-year,  $3.9  million  award  from  the  Defense 
Advanced  Research  Projects  Agency  (DARPA),  the  research  and  development  arm  of  the  U.S.  Department  of  Defense. 


Inspiring  a  lifetime  of  learning 

in  math,  science,  and  engineering 


\ 


K 


\ 


The  WPI  K- 12  Outreach 
Program  is  challenging 
students  to  grow  academically 
and  is  making  a  difference  in 
educating  the  next  generation 
of  technological  humanists. 


wvsrw.vNApi.edu/Admin/Kl  2 


6     Transformations    I    Fall  2  006 


NSF  Awards  WPI  Researchers 
$1.8  million 

A  research  team  led  by  Dalin  Tang,  professor  of  mathematical 
sciences  and  biomedical  engineering,  has  received  a  five-year, 
$1.8  million  award  from  the  National  Science  Foundation  to 
conduct  a  comprehensive  study  of  the  growth,  progression,  and 
rupture  of  human  atherosclerotic  plaque,  a  medical  condition 
that  is  closely  related  to  most  cardiovascular  diseases,  including 
stroke  and  heart  attack.  Cardiovascular  disease  is  the  leading 
cause  of  death  in  the  developed  world. 

With  the  NSF  funding,  the  team  will  use  a  combination  of 
computational  modeling,  MRI  (magnetic  resonance  imaging) 
scans  of  volunteer  patients,  and  histological  studies  of  diseased 
arteries  to  develop— for  the  first  time— a  detailed  picture  of  the 
physical  and  biological  conditions  inside  arteries  that  promote  the 
initial  formation  of  a  plaque,  and  then  favor  its  continued  growth. 
The  work  will  also  reveal,  in  unprecedented  detail,  the  factors 
that  cause  plaques  to  rupture,  leading  directly  to  heart  attacks 
and  stroke. 

WPI  mathematicians  Joseph  D.  Petruccelli  and  Homer  F.  Walker 
are  also  a  part  of  this  research  team,  as  are  professors  and 
researchers  from  the  University  of  Washington,  the  University 
of  California,  Irvine,  Shinshu  University  in  Nagano,  Japan,  and 
Beijing  Normal  University  in  the  People's  Republic  of  China. 


Meet  the  Class  of  2010 

■  780  students— the  largest  class  to  date 

■  3.7  average  GPA;  average  class  rank  in  the 
top  1 1  percent 

■  1290  average  SAT  score  (on  a  scale  of  1600); 
1 888  average  SAT  score  (on  a  scale  of  2400) 

■  31  states  and  35  countries  represented 

■  25  percent  women 

■  Top  majors  include:  mechanical  engineering, 
electrical  and  computer  engineering,  chemical 
engineering,  biology 


Rocket  Man 

A  new  monument  to  honor  Robert  Goddard,  the  first  in 
his  native  Worcester,  was  unveiled  on  a  rainy  afternoon 
in  May.  The  monument  comprises  eight  panels  that, 
through  text  and  photos,  tell  the  story  of  Goddard's  life 
and  accomplishments.  Goddard,  known  as  the  "father 
of  modern  rocketry,"  graduated  from  WPI  in  1908. 
WPI  contributed  to  the  monument's  development  and 
donated  an  informational  kiosk  to  the  project. 


More 


Our  Cup  Runneth  Over 


For  the  second  time  in  three  years,  WPI  captured  the  coveted 
Worcester  College  Cup  for  the  2005-06  sports  season.  The  cup 
is  presented  annually  by  the  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette  to 
the  area  school  with  the  highest  overall  winning  percentage  in 
all  sports. 


Davis  to  Influence 
Foreign  Policy 

Paul  Davis,  professor  of  mathematical  sciences  and  former  dean 
of  WPI's  interdisciplinary  and  global  studies  program,  has  been 
named  a  Jefferson  Science  Fellow  by  the  U.S.  State  Department. 

Davis,  along  with  five  other  professors  from  around  the  country, 
will  lend  his  expertise  to  various  U.S.  department  bureaus  over  the 
next  year,  helping  shape  and  influence  U.S.  foreign  policy  by 
serving  as  an  advisor.  After  his  one-year  assignment,  Davis  will 
remain  a  State  Department  consultant  for  five  years. 

The  Jefferson  Science  Fellows  program  was  established  in  2003 
to  give  science  and  technology  a  more  prominent  role  in  U.S. 
foreign  policy. 


+ 


WPI  Venture  Forum 

Dinner  wrth  Entrepreneurs 

CEI€WPI  ALL-OUT  Business  Plan  Challenge 

Robert  H.  Grant  Invention  Awards 

Strage  Innovation  Awards 

Networking  Events 

Spotlight  on  Entrepreneurs 

Elevator  Pitch  CSnics 

CEO  East  Collegiate  Entrepreneur-ship  Conference 

42  Workshops  and  4  Interactive  Seminars 

Invention  to  venture 

Weekly  Radio  Program 

Vantage  Newsletter 

Resources,  vast  networks,  and  much  more 


An  entrepreneurial  mindset 

WPI  takes  entrepreneurship  education  seriously. 

Just  how  much  more  seriously  is  up  to  you. 

Our  students  are  saying  great  things  about  WPI's  new  entrepreneurship  programs.  But,  they  want  more. 

To  innovate  the  future  of  business.  You  can  help  them  attain  the  entrepreneurial  mindset  they  need  by  working 

with  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  &  Innovation  in  its  Entrepreneurial  Mindset  Initiative. 

For  information  call  508-831-5761  or  visit  www.wpi.edu/-i-CEI 


Andrew  Bangs  '06  became  the  university's  first  graduate  in  the 
innovative  Interactive  Media  and  Game  Development  program 
when  he  received  his  WPI  diploma  this  spring.  Bangs  joined  his 
937  peers  at  the  university's  138th  Commencement,  on  May  20. 
This  year,  WPI  conferred  641  bachelor's  degrees,  267  master's 
degrees,  and  30  PhD  degrees. 

Honorary  degrees  were  given  to  Marian  Heard,  former  president 
and  CEO  of  the  United  Way  of  Massachusetts  Bay;  Tjama  Tjivikua, 
founder  and  rector  of  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Namibia,  the 
first  technological  university  in  the  southwest  African  nation;  and 
keynote  speaker  and  WPI  trustee  Curtis  R.Carlson  '67  president 
and  CEO  of  SRI  International  in  Menlo  Park,  Calif.  An  innovator 
and  technology  leader,  Carlson  holds  fundamental  patents  in 
the  fields  of  image  quality,  image  coding,  and  computer  vision. 
Most  recently,  the  Society  for  Information  Display  awarded  him 
the  2006  Otto  Schade  Prize  in  Display  Performance  and 
Image  Quality. 

Carlson  spoke  to  the  graduates  about  the  world  of  abundance. 
"Unlike  land  and  other  physical  resources,  knowledge,  ideas, 


and  creativity  are  unlimited.  They  build  on  each  other  to  create 
opportunity  after  new  opportunity,"  he  said.  "Innovation  is  now 
the  primary  driver  of  growth,  prosperity,  and  quality  of  life." 

Carlson  reminded  the  graduates  that  the  world  is  only  abundant 
to  those  who  have  the  appropriate  knowledge  and  skills. 
"Fortunately,  you  are  among  a  rare  group  that  has  the  required 
skills,"  he  said.  "The  WPI  Plan  is  now  the  model  for  higher 
education  in  our  global  world.  For  you,  an  exciting 
adventure  is  just  beginning." 

President  Dennis  Berkey  also  told  the  graduates  that  they  are 
well  prepared  for  innovation,  leadership,  and  achievement. 


"I  take  much  satisfaction  from  the  thought  that  you  have  been 
well  educated  by  this  deeply  dedicated  faculty  — in  courses  on  the 
campus,  in  projects  at  home  and  around  the  world,  in  theatrical 
and  musical  projects  and  performances,  and  in  one-on-one 
interactions  of  many  kinds,"  Berkey  said.  "Lifelong  learning  is 
therefore  more  than  a  slogan  at  WPI.  It  is  a  habit  of  mind  that 
arises  from  the  experience  of  a  truly  excellent  education." 


Among  the  Commencement  photos:  honorary  marshal  Jeanine  Plummer 
leads  the  processional  over  Earle  Bridge;  Tjama  Tjivikua  is  presented  with 
an  honorary  degree;  Curtis  Carlson  delivers  the  keynote  address. 


Trans  formations    I   Fall  2  006    9 


MoreBuzz 


New  Deanships  Reaffirm  Commitment  to  Education 

This  summer,  Provost  and  Senior  Vice  President  Carol  Simpson 
announced  two  senior  administrative  appointments  that  reflect 
the  important  role  of  undergraduate  education  at  WPI. 


John  Orr,  electrical  and  computer  engineering  professor  and 
former  department  head,  was  named  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies,  and  Richard  Vaz  '79,  ECE  associate  professor  and 
associate  dean  of  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies  (IGSD), 
was  named  dean  of  IGSD. 

'These  appointments  reaffirm  that  undergraduate  education  is  at 
the  heart  of  our  mission,"  Simpson  says. 

The  dean  of  undergraduate  studies  position  was  recreated  after 
an  11 -year  hiatus.  (Bill  Grogan  46,  professor  emeritus  of  electrical 
engineering,  served  as  the  first  such  dean  from  1970  until  his 
retirement  in  1990.  Frank  Lutz  succeeded  Grogan  until  his 
resignation  in  1995.) 

The  IGSD  deanship  became  open  this  year  after  Paul  Davis 
stepped  down  from  the  position  to  begin  a  sabbatical  leave  with 
the  U.S.  State  Department  (see  story   page  8).  "We  are  renewing 
our  belief  that  the  traditional  values  and  emphasis  of  WPI's 
undergraduate  education  remain  as  vital  as  ever,"  Simpson  says. 


Both  Orr  and  Vaz  bring  many  years  of  experience  to  their 
respective  new  roles.  Orr  joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1977  as  an 
assistant  professor  of  electrical  engineering,  after  earning  his  PhD 
in  electrical  engineering  from  the  University  of  Illinois,  Urbana.  He 
became  associate  professor  in  1981,  and  full  professor  in  1986. 
He  also  served  as  ECE  department  head  from  1988  to  2003. 
In  his  new  role,  Orr  will  be  involved  in  a  variety  of  initiatives, 
including  new  developments  to  enrich  the  freshman-  and 
sophomore-year  experiences. 

Vaz  arrived  on  campus  in  1975  as  an  undergraduate;  he  earned 
his  bachelor's  and  master's  degrees  at  WPI,  as  well  as  his  PhD. 
In  1983,  he  became  an  instructor  and  rose  to  the  rank  of  associate 
professor  of  ECE,  a  title  he  has  held  since  1  994.  For  the  past 
eight  years,  he  has  also  served  as  associate  dean  of  IGSD.  As 
dean,  Vaz  will  continue  to  enhance  and  support  WPi's 
interdisciplinary  and  global  education. 

This  summer,  Transformations  spoke  with  the  two  colleagues  about 
their  vision  for  undergraduate  education  in  a  changing  world. 


ID 


John  Orr 


Richard  Vaz 


John  Orr  jokes  that,  after  being  named  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  this  spring,  one  of  his  first  agenda  items  was  to  purchase 
some  new  suits. 

Of  course,  when  asked  about  the  approach  he  will  take  to  his 
new  role  at  the  university,  his  tone  is  much  more  serious.  He  talks 
about  filling  current  needs,  as  well 
as  addressing  the  longer-term  vision. 
"How  do  we  look  to  the  future, 
recognizing  that  a  university  doesn't 
make  major  changes  overnight?"  he 
says.  "On  the  other  hand,  WPI  is 
much  more  amenable  to  change 
than  other  schools." 

This  summer,  Orr  parlayed  his  nearly 
30  years  of  experience  at  WPI  into 
a  role  that  will  help  shape  the  future 
of  the  university's  undergraduate 
programs. 

"For  many  years,  WPI  has  been  much 
broader  than  just  engineering,  and  it 
will  continue  to  broaden,"  he  says. 
"Our  job  is  [educating  students]  who 
will  be  leaders,  managers,  innovators." 

In  the  lab,  Orr  has  worked  with  a  team  of  faculty  to  develop  tech- 
nology that  tracks  and  locates  personnel  indoors,  such  as  firefighters 
inside  a  burning  building.  On  campus,  his  experience  as  a 
professor  has  given  him  perspective  on  the  fundamentals  of  a 
solid  undergraduate  education.  During  the  undergraduate  years, 
he  explains,  students  gain  a  better  understanding  of  themselves 
and  the  world  around  them;  they  gain  the  knowledge  on  which 
they  will  base  a  career,  and,  in  essence,  they  grow  up.  "There  is 
so  much  maturation  that  happens  during  these  four  years,  inside 
and  outside  the  classroom,"  he  says.  "It's  a  sacred  responsibility 
for  a  residential  university  to  work  with  students  in  this  regard." 

In  his  new  role  he  will  collaborate  with  colleague  Rick  Vaz,  the 
newly  appointed  dean  of  IGSD,  on  a  variety  of  projects,  such  as 
exploring  avenues  to  enhance  the  freshman-  and  sophomore-year 
experiences— a  concern  raised  last  year  from  the  commissions  that 
studied  various  aspects  of  the  campus.  "Rick  and  I  will  be  working 
hand-in-hand  and  I'm  really  looking  forward  to  that,"  Orr  says. 
"WPI  is  one  of  the  leaders— if  not  the  leader— in  projects  in 
undergraduate  education,  but  there's  still  room  to  integrate  it  more 
into  the  rest  of  the  curriculum." 

Though  moving  to  the  administration  side  of  academia,  Orr  will 
continue  to  advise  projects;  he  says  he  looks  forward  to  maintain- 
ing his  involvement  with  the  Silicon  Valley  project  center.  "The 
reason  we're  all  in  education  is  the  students  and  that  sense  of 
mutual  fulfillment  when  students  accomplish  something,"  he  says. 
"I  don't  expect  to  get  too  far  away  from  that." 

—  Charna  Westervelt 


"I've  parachuted  into  a  large  and  extremely  well  run  operation," 
Rick  Vaz  says  of  his  new  post.  "I  don't  plan  to  come  in  and  make 
sweeping  changes.  I'm  going  to  take  the  time  to  learn  how  things 
are  done,  and  keep  a  gentle  hand  on  the  rudder,  especially  for 
the  first  year." 

With  his  decades  of  rich  experience 
at  WPI  and  his  expertise  in  issues 
such  as  higher  education  reform  and 
the  internationalization  of  engineering 
education,  it  is  no  surprise  that  Vaz 
appreciates  the  smooth-running  IGSD, 
as  well  as  its  signature  role  at  the 
university. 

Indeed,  IGSD's  Global  Perspective 

Program  has  won  the  university 

considerable  recognition.  The 

program  was  cited  by  the  Association 

of  American  Colleges  and  Universities 

in  2000,  when  it  named  WPI  one  of 

16  Greater  Expectations  Leadership 

Institutions.  In  2002,  the  university 

was  recognized  by  NAFSA: 

Association  of  International  Educators 

for  "doing  exemplary  work  to 

internationalize  the  campus."  And  in 

2003,  TIAA-CREF  recognized  WPI  with  the  Theodore  M. 

Hesburgh  Award,  which  honors  academic  programs  that  enhance 

undergraduate  teaching  and  learning. 

As  dean,  Vaz  will  keep  his  finger  on  the  pulse  of  students'  WPI 
experiences  by  carrying  on  with  his  long-standing  role  as  advisor 
to  scores  of  undergrads.  "I  also  hope  to  continue  going  overseas 
to  work  with  students  at  the  project  centers,"  says  the  professor 
who  has  maintained  a  frenetic  schedule  working  on  projects  in 
Ireland,  Namibia,  and  Thailand,  among  other  locations.  "But  for 
this  first  year  as  dean,  I  plan  to  stay  closer  to  home." 

While  he's  around,  Vaz  will  roll  up  his  sleeves  to  collaborate  with 
his  longtime  colleague  John  Orr  on  undergraduate  curriculum 
development.  On  this  front,  Vaz  feels  particularly  fired  up  about 
early  undergraduate  education.  "I  believe  that  much  of  what  we 
do  in  the  IQP  and  global  program  is  exactly  what  our  first-year 
students  need:  training  in  critical  thinking  and  problem  solving, 
and  in  writing  and  research  skills,"  he  says.  "I'll  be  very  interested 
in  exploring  with  John  and  others  how  we  can  integrate  elements 
of  the  IGSD's  educational  strategies  more  fully  into  the  curriculum." 

Stepping  back  for  a  longer  view,  Vaz  says,  "I  am  thrilled  to  be 
part  of  this  historic  moment  at  WPI." 

—  Eileen  McCluskey 


Trans  for  mat  i  ons    I    Fall  2  006     11 


Music  to  Their  Ears 

Wherever  he  goes,  Richard  Resnick  builds  businesses 
In  his  latest  venture,  the  serial  entrepreneur  hopes  to 
make  beautiful  music  — or,  more  specifically,  cell  phone 
ringtones— with  the  13-  to  18-year-old  set. 

Richard  Resnick  '98(MS)  is  president  and  CEO  of 
Harmony  Line — the  parent  company  of  H-Lounge.com,  a 
new  Web  site  where  teenagers  can  chat,  play  games,  and 
compose  and  upload  their  own  ringtones. 

"It's  hard  for  most  middle-aged  people  to  'get'  the  attrac- 
tion of  ringtones,"  Resnick  says  with  an  easy  laugh.  "But 
what  kids  want,  we  discovered  through  many  focus  groups, 
is  portable  music  on  the  smallest,  most  personal  devices 
possible,  to  impress  their  friends."  Focus  groups  also  revealed 
that  kids  enjoy  composing  their  own  ringtones,  then  earning 
money  and  gaining  prestige  by  selling  their  creations. 

Harmony  Line  got  its  start  in  2004  to  sell  Hyperscore, 
software  designed  by  famous  musician,  composer,  and 
Harmony  Line  chairman  Tod  Machover.  Created  for  children 
with  no  musical  education,  Hyperscore  allows  anyone  to 
compose  complex  scores  by  drawing  colorful  lines  and  using 
intuitive  harmonization  tools. 

Not  so  intuitive,  Resnick  found,  was  the  issue  of  turning 
cool  software  into  cold  cash.  "The  software  works  really  well, 
but  how  do  you  make  money  with  it?  That  was,  and  is,  our 
challenge,"  he  says.  Harmony  Line  tried  and  discarded  strate- 
gies such  as  selling  Hyperscore  directly  to  schools  and  parents. 
Both  approaches  yielded  disappointing  revenues. 

Then  came  the  "Eureka!"  moment.  Rather  than  develop 
a  company  around  a  piece  of  software,  Resnick  and  partners 
decided  to  build  around  consumer  trends.  "We  found  two 
major  trends  related  to  Hyperscore,"  he  notes.  "The  enormous 
ringtone  market,  and  online  social  networks."  The  cell  phone 
ringtone  markets-composed  of  $1  and  $2  downloadable 
purchases — is  burgeoning  from  a  $4  billion  worldwide  market 
in  2004  to  an  estimated  $6  billion  behemoth  in  2007. 

Heeding  their  target  market's  feedback,  Harmony  Line 
launched  H-Lounge.com  in  December  2005.  Like  Resnicks 
other  enterprises — life  sciences-related  Mosaic  Bioinformatics 
and  Biological  Energy  Corp. — cutting-edge  technology  forms 
the  heart  of  Harmony  Line  and  H-Lounge.com.  But  unlike 
the  other  start-ups,  H-Lounge  focuses  almost  exclusively  on 
fun.  Modeled  after  such  hits  as  Neopets.com,  H-Lounge  lets 
1 3-  to  1 8-year-olds  chat  and  play  games.  Kids  can  also  pursue 
their  dreams  of  becoming  rich  ringtone  composers  by  down- 
loading Hyperscore,  then  creating  and  uploading  their  com- 


positions, all  for  free.  Money  starts  changing  hands  when  the 
users  buy  and  sell  ringtones.  Anyone  can  sell  their  ringtones 
via  a  revenue-sharing  deal  that  earns  the  seller  30  cents  on 
the  dollar.  H-Lounge  mails  checks  to  the  musician  through 
another  Internet  denizen,  PayPal. 

Most  kids  don't  have  credit  cards,  but  H-Lounge  found 
a  way  around  that  barrier:  through  charges  on  the  parents' 
mobile  phone  bills.  Not  surprisingly,  "the  legal  end  of  this 
business  is  the  most  expensive  part,"  reports  Resnick.  Parental 
consent  and  child  labor  laws  presented  two  pricey  issues. 

To  garner  advice  from  other  entrepreneurs  as  he  climbs 
his  self-described  "steep  learning  curve,"  Resnick  recently 
returned  to  WPI  as  a  Venture  Forum  case  presenter.  "When 
you  present  your  ideas  in  front  of  50  smart  people,  you  get 
great  feedback,"  he  says.  "It  forces  you  to  think  about 
whether  what  you're  saying  makes  sense." 

So  far,  H-Lounge  does.  "We  expect  revenues  to  hit  seven 
figures  in  the  next  12  to  18  months,"  Resnick  says.  H-Lounge 
so  far  boasts  10,000  active  users  who  have  uploaded  20,000 
original  ringtones. 

Any  wealthy  kid  composers?  Not  yet.  Says  Resnick, 
"some  kids  have  made  $  1 00.  I  figure  we'll  make  the  front 
page  of  the  New  York  Times  when  one  of  them  earns  $1,000." 


1  2     Transformations    I    Fall  2006 


Sunny  Side 

eseJ 


There's  no  question  that  Sanj 
Manivannan  '07  is  a  math 
cell  phone  number  and  he 
that  the  digits  almost  equ 


Sunny  Manivannan  — one  part  math  major,  one  part 
mechanical  engineering  major— is  the  latest  WPI  student 
to  be  named  a  Goldwater  Scholar  by  the  Barry  M. 
Goldwater  Scholarship  and  Excellence  in  Education 
Foundation.  Since  2002,  eight  WPI  undergraduates  have 
received  the  prestigious  scholarship,  which  recognizes 
outstanding  students  and  encourages  them  to  pursue 
careers  in  math,  science,  and  engineering. 


20 


"[The  scholarship]  motivates  me  to  do  better,"  says  the 
•year-old.  "I  like  doing  the  best  I  can." 


Born  in  Chennai  (formerly  known  as  Madras),  India, 
Manivannan  and  his  family  moved  to  Framingham, 
Mass.,  when  he  was  12.  "My  parents  came  here  in 
part  for  my  brother  and  me.  There's  a  lot  more 
opportunities  for  students  here." 

Indeed,  Manivannan  has  taken  full  advantage 
of  such  extracurriculars.  He  played  tennis 
in  high  school  — and  continues  to  play 
noncompetitively— and  he  is  currently 
president  of  WPI's  Student 
Government  Association.  "I  like 
helping  the  community  that 
I  live  in,"  he  says. 

As  SGA  president,  he  sat 
alongside  WPI  trustees  and 
senior  administrators  last 
spring,  when  he  took  part 
in  the  semiannual  Board 
of  Trustees  meeting. 


"It  was  surreal  that  I  could  talk  to  all  these  people  who 
change  the  world,"  he  says. 

Several  weeks  later,  Manivannan  spent  time  with  WPI 
trustee  Carleton  F.  Kilmer  64,  retired  senior  partner  at 
Accenture,  who  encouraged  the  young  man  to  go  to 
business  school.  While  Manivannan  has  been  considering 
a  PhD  in  computational  fluid  dynamics,  the  idea  of 
business  school  piqued  his  interest.  "The  more  I  study  and 
the  more  I  expose  myself  to  different  things,"  he  confesses, 
"the  less  decisive  I  am  about  my  future." 

This  summer,  as  an  intern  at  GE  Aviation's  stress  analysis 
division  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  Manivannan  helped  design  and 
modify  different  engine  lines.  Last  summer,  he  worked  in 
the  facility's  heat  transfer  division.  "They  get  you  right  in 
there  and  show  you  the  ropes,"  he  says.  "You're  actually 
doing  the  work  that  they're  doing." 


As  a  senior  this  year,  Manivannan  will  finish  a 
project  in  which  he  and  Charles  Gammal  '08  are 
looking  at  the  feasibility  of  a  multidisciplinary 
engineering  major  that  combines  mechanical 
and  electrical  engineering.  "We  hope  to  see 
it  in  the  course  catalog  sometime  in  the  next 
decade,"  he  says.  "Hopefully,  we'll  make 
a  difference  at  WPI."       -CW 


By  playing  with  others,  children  develop  many  of 
the  skills  they  will  need  to  succeed  in  the  adult  world — skills 
such  as  observing,  reasoning,  planning,  persevering,  inter- 
acting, and  communicating.  Many  games  also  promote  physical 
health  and  improve  motor  skills.  But  visually  impaired  chil- 
dren are  often  excluded  from  games  enjoyed  by  their  sighted 
peers,  limiting  their  involvement  in  beneficial  play  activities. 

WPI  seniors  Erika  Hall,  Ryan  Lizewski,  and  Elizabeth 
McCoskrie  addressed  this  problem  through  a  project  focused 
on  developing  toys  for  blind  children.  The  students  spent 
eight  weeks  in  Copenhagen  last  spring,  working  in  cooperation 
with  Denmark's  Visual  Impairment  Knowledge  Center. 

"This  project  was  profound  for  me,"  McCoskrie  reflects. 
"As  engineers,  we  like  to  quantify,  to  work  with  numbers. 
The  social  sciences  are  so  different.  You  can't  take  a  black- 
and-white  approach." 

The  students'  objective  was  to  develop  ways  of  pro- 
moting play  between  blind  and  sighted  children,  using  toys 


designed  specifically  for  the  blind.  "Studies  have  shown  that 
visually  impaired  children  tend  to  play  more  with  adults  or 
caregivers  than  with  peers,"  notes  Hall.  "This  can  lead  to 
social  isolation,  which  in  turn  may  engender  other  develop- 
mental difficulties." 

The  team's  goal  was  to  address  these  problems  by  under- 
standing how  toys  facilitate  social  interaction  between  blind 
and  sighted  children,  explains  project  advisor  Ruth  L.  Smith, 
professor  of  religious  studies.  "They  determined  that  one  of 
the  most  effective  ways  to  achieve  this  is  through  the  devel- 
opment of  toys  designed  specifically  for  blind  children," 
she  says.  "Although  a  number  of  play  products  have  been 
adapted  for  the  visually  impaired,  those  adaptations  do 
not  necessarily  promote  the  social  interaction  we  were 
looking  for." 

A  truly  successful  game,  Lizewski  points  out,  is  one  that 
creates  a  level  playing  field  and  is  interesting  for  all  players. 
But  an  assignment  that  seemed  relatively  straightforward  at 


14     Transformations    I    Fall  2  006 


first  became  more  complex  as  the  students  dug  deeper. 
"We  spent  a  lot  of  late  nights  brainstorming  ideas  for  games 
that  would  be  equally  appealing  and  accessible  to  blind  and 
sighted  children,"  Lizewski  says. 

The  WPI  students  were  aided  in  their  research  by  the 
Perkins  School  for  the  Blind  in  Watertown.  Mass.,  which 
provided  access  to  its  resources  and  facilities  before  the  students 
went  abroad.  The)'  toured  Perkins's  specialized  toy  and  game 
workshop  as  a  preliminary-  step  in  their  background  research. 

Once  in  Copenhagen,  the  students  received  further 
support  from  the  project's  sponsors,  who  helped  set  up  focus 
groups  with  parents  of  blind  children  and  facilitated  access 
to  local  schools. 

"Denmark  has  given  significant  attention  to  distinctions 
in  early  childhood,  with  the  goal  of  societal  inclusion,"  Smith 
explains.  "Blind  children  are  incorporated  into  local  class- 
rooms, with  the  help  of  an  aide.  Educators  and  specialists 
who  work  with  the  visually  impaired  often  have  to  develop 
their  own  play  materials." 

She  says  that  one  of  the  biggest  challenges  for  the  students 
was  to  imagine  the  existential  situation  of  blindness.  "There 
are  qualitative  differences  between  visually  impaired  and 
sighted  peoples  experiences  of  the  world,"  she  notes. 

To  better  understand  those  differences,  the  students  visited 
"Dialogue  in  the  Dark,'  an  exhibit  presented  by  a  science 
museum  in  Copenhagen.  "We  were  in  a  completely  dark 
room  for  50  minutes,"  Lizewski  recalls.  "We  each  had  to 
depend  on  a  cane  and  other  people  to  get  around.  It  was 
incredibly  challenging,  but  it  helped  us  understand  what 
blind  people  go  through  every  day." 

Despite  the  commonalities  of  blindness,  the  students  also 
recognized  that  there  are  as  many  differences  among  blind 


children  as  among  sighted  children.  "Temperament  and  per- 
sonality were  important  factors,  and  some  children  integrated 
and  played  more  easily  than  others,"  McCoskrie  recalls. 

"We  all  learned  not  to  be  absolute,"  Hall  adds.  "We 
couldn  t  assume  that  because  a  child  was  blind,  he  or  she 
would  respond  in  the  same  way  as  another  blind  child." 

Instead  of  focusing  on  the  limitations  presented  by 
visual  impairment,  the  students  chose  to  emphasize  elements 
of  play  that  all  children  enjoy.  "Kids  like  games  that  give 
every  player  the  chance  to  win  or  lose,"  Lizewski  says.  "So, 
one  of  our  creations  was  a  game  of  "Go  Fish'  that  uses  fabric 
pouches  instead  of  playing  cards.  The  pouches  contain  marbles, 
buttons,  and  other  items  that  players  have  to  identify  and 
match  by  using  their  hands.  It's  the  same  game  whether 
you  re  blind  or  sighted." 

.Another  invention  was  a  magnetic  game  board  fitted 
with  wooden  spacers.  Because  visually  impaired  children  use 
tactile  scanning  methods  to  envision  the  arrangement  of  a 
game  board,  they  can  knock  over  and  move  pieces  uninten- 
tionally "Yelcro,  magnets,  or  a  peg-and-groove  system  help 
stabilize  the  game,"  Hall  explains. 

The  students  also  created  an  audio  CD  to  replace  dice 
or  spinners  that  prompt  moves  around  a  game  board.  "Kids 
tend  to  like  noise,  and  a  game  that  produces  music  and  other 
sounds  is  attractive  to  many  of  them,"  McCoskrie  points  out. 

Their  research  culminated  in  producing  a  guidebook 
that  will  be  translated  into  Danish  and  posted  on  the  Visual 
Impairment  Knowledge  Center's  Web  site.  It  also  will  be 
made  available  to  the  Perkins  School. 

"We  really  thought  about  how  our  work  affects  the  com- 
munity." Lizewski  says.  "That  s  something  I'll  take  with  me 
wherever  I  go." 


"As  engineers,  we  like  to  quantify,  to  work  with  numbers 

The  social  sciences  are  so  different.  You  can't  take 

a  black-and-white  approach." 


It's  the  kind  of  statistic  that  stops  you  in  your  tracks: 
Every  day,  37,000  people  die  from  treatable  infectious 
diseases. 

That's  not  what  Anne  St.  Martin  came  to  WPI  to  learn. 
A  native  of  Ontario,  Canada,  she  came  to  study  chemistry 
and  prepare  for  a  career  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry. 
She  saw  intellectual  property  (IP)  as  a  legal  specialty  that 
would  reward  her  with  a  comfortable  lifestyle — one  that 
would  allow  her  to  indulge  her  passion  for  horseback  riding. 
Time  with  horses  was  something  shed  always  had  to  work 


for.  starting  with  her  first  stable  jobs  at  age  12.  With  a  good 
career  in  IP,  St.  Martin  thought  she  might  be  able  to  afford 
a  farm  of  her  own  one  day 

But  she  graduated  last  May  a  changed  person.  Her 
revised  goal  is  to  work  for  change  in  IP  legislation,  to  ensure 
that  essential  medications  will  be  available  to  needy  people 
in  developing  nations.  It  was  her  global  education — which 
included  projects  and  course  work  in  seven  different  countries — 
that  altered  her  worldview  and  opened  her  eyes  to  a  growing 
health  care  crisis. 


I  6     Tran  sfo  r mat  ions    I    Fall  2006 


"I  think  that  deep  down,  people  really  do  care— 

it's  just  that  we're  sheltered  here.  If  more  people  could  see  for  themselves 

what  the  rest  of  the  world  is  really  like, 

then  I  think  they  would  try  to  work  for  change." 


» 


"I  was  always  keen  on  traveling,"  says 
the  alumna.  "I  knew  that  I  would  definitely 
take  advantage  of  the  Global  Perspective 
Program." 

In  fact,  she  may  have  set  some  kind 
of  record  for  passport  stamps  on  a  WPI 
diploma.  She  did  her  Humanities  Sufficiency 
in  German  language  and  culture  at  the 
Technische  Universitat  Darmstadt,  and  her 
chemistry  MQP  at  Ecole  Nationale  Superieure 
des  Industries  Chimiques  in  Nancy,  France. 
In  between,  she  spent  a  summer  in  Russia, 
participating  in  a  Chemistry  Research 
Experience  for  Undergraduates  at  Moscow 
State  University.  But  it  was  her  projects 
in  Africa  and  Asia  that  affected  her  most 
profoundly. 

In  Windhoek,  Namibia,  St.  Martin's 
IQP  team  worked  out  an  equitable  water 
pricing  system  for  residents  of  informal 
settlements  in  that  impoverished,  arid  region. 
"Seeing  those  settlements  and  working  with 
the  people  there  changed  my  whole  perspec- 
tive," she  says.  "After  going  to  Namibia,  I 
thought,  'I  have  all  these  opportunities.  I 
should  do  something  besides  going  to  work 
for  a  pharmaceutical  company.'" 

Back  at  WPI,  she  began  researching 
global  health  care  issues  and  factors  that 
make  treatment  unaffordable  and  unavailable 
in  the  developing  world.  Her  research  led 
her  to  Colombo,  Sri  Lanka,  where  she  interned  with  Health 
Action  International  Asia-Pacific  (HALAP)  for  her  MQP  in 
international  studies.  She  also  assisted  with  an  international 
conference  in  Dhaka,  Bangladesh,  cosponsored  by  HALAP, 
called  "The  Future  of  Health  Services:  Who  Will  Live  and 
Who  Will  Die." 

Her  MQP  report  brings  together  disturbing  statistics  on 
poverty  and  lack  of  health  care  in  developing  nations  with 
information  on  recent  IP  legislation  governing  the  pharma- 
ceutical industry.  She  focused  on  the  World  Trade  Organization's 


agreement  on  Trade  Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property 
Rights  (commonly  called  TRIPS).  There  is  growing  concern 
among  health  care  advocates  that  the  agreement,  which  was 
designed  to  protect  patent  rights  of  corporations,  is  making 
essential  medications  unaffordable  and  inaccessible  in  the 
developing  world. 

"Anne  shows  how  some  simple  reforms  of  TRIPS  would 
ensure  that  the  intellectual  property  rights  of  pharmaceutical 
companies  are  still  protected,  at  the  same  time  allowing 
developing  nations  to  produce  generic  versions  of  essential 
medicines  that,  daily,  could  save  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
their  poorest  citizens,"  says  Bland  Addison,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  humanities  and  arts,  and  St.  Martin's  project 
advisor. 

The  well-traveled  alumna's  dream  is  to  set  up  a  non- 
profit network  of  experts  who  would  serve  as  a  resource  on 
IP  issues  to  developing  countries.  "What  I  would  like  to  do 
eventually  is  work  within  the  UN,  specifically  for  WIPO 
(World  Intellectual  Property  Organization),  where  I  could 
give  voice  to  the  concerns  of  the  developing  countries,"  she 
says.  To  help  accomplish  that  goal,  this  fall  she  begins  the 
joint  JD/Master  of  IP  program  at  Franklin  Pierce  Law 
Center,  in  Concord,  N.H. 

St.  Martin  remains  thankful  for  all  the  educational 
opportunities  she's  had,  and  for  the  support  of  WPI's  faculty 
and  the  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies  Division. 
"Show  me  another  university  where  you  can  complete  a 
double  major  in  four  years  and  study  for  two  months  on 
five  different  continents,"  she  challenges.  "It  was  such  an 
incredible  experience." 

"At  school,  I  realized  that  life  is  bigger  than  horses," 
she  says.  "I  still  love  them.  They  keep  me  sane  and  make  me 
happy."  She  has  attained  a  rare  balance  that  she  will  carry 
into  her  future  life,  which  she  expects  will  include  a  home, 
a  family,  and  even  horseback  riding. 

"I  don't  think  it's  wrong  or  bad  to  live  the  way  we  do, 
or  to  have  the  careers  we  have,"  she  contends.  "I  think  that 
deep  down,  people  really  do  care — it's  just  that  we're  sheltered 
here.  If  more  people  could  see  for  themselves  what  the  rest  of 
the  world  is  really  like,  then  I  think  they  would  try  to  work 
for  change.  That's  why  WPI  projects  are  so  important." 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006     1  7 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Assessing  the  Odds 


Meet  Ms.  Lindquist. 

As  middle-school  algebra 
teachers  go,  she  is  remarkably 
calm,  patient,  and  even- 
tempered.  Wrong  answers 
never  phase  her.  "Let's  break 
this  down,"  she  says  when 
presented  with  a  first 
attempt  that  misses  the  mark. 
Step-by-step,  she  walks  the 
student  through  the  problem 
until  the  answer  seems  clear. 
Then,  with  that  small  hurdle 
cleared,  it's  on  to  the  next 
problem  and  the  next 
learning  milestone. 


It's  a  winning  approach,  one  Ms.  Lindquist  has  used  with  thousands  of  students 
across  the  country.  Who  is  this  remarkable  teacher?  "She"  is  a  computer  program, 
a  complex,  patented  collection  of  code  developed  by  Neil  Heffernan,  assistant 
professor  of  computer  science  at  WPI,  while  he  pursued  his  PhD  at  Carnegie 
Mellon  University.  Ms.  Lindquist  (named  for  the  real-life  teacher — now 
Heffernan's  wife — who  served  as  the  model  for  the  program)  was  Heffernan's  first 
voyage  into  the  field  of  intelligent  tutoring  systems,  an  area  that  has  been  his 
focus — some  might  say  his  obsession — ever  since. 

For  the  past  three  years,  with  funding  from  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Education,  the  Office  of  Naval  Research,  the  National  Science  Foundation,  and 
other  agencies,  Heffernan  and  a  small  army  of  graduate  students  and  undergraduates 
have  been  developing  a  computerized  tutoring  system  that  helps  8th-grade 
students  learn  the  math  skills  they  need  to  pass  the  MCAS  (Massachusetts 
Comprehensive  Assessment  System),  the  state's  mastery  test. 

The  MCAS  system  represents  a  significant  advance  over  Ms.  Lindquist. 
Like  the  earlier  program,  it  helps  students  master  math  concepts  by  breaking 
them  into  steps  and  responding  appropriately  to  correct  and  incorrect  answers. 
But  it  also  monitors  and  provides  feedback  on  how  individual  students  and 
entire  classes  perform  on  specific  test  items  and  on  the  98  math  skills  required 
to  complete  those  items.  Because  the  system  combines  assistance  with  assessment, 
Heffernan  calls  it  ASSISTments. 

ASSISTments  draws  heavily  on  Heffernan's  expertise  in  artificial  intelligence 
and  is  built  on  a  solid  foundation  of  cognitive  psychology.  Before  he  built  Ms. 
Lindquist,  Heffernan  did  "think-aloud"  studies  with  students,  a  technique  pioneered 
by  his  Carnegie  Mellon  professors.  He'd  give  the  kids  algebra  problems  and  ask 
them  to  think  aloud  as  they  tried  to  solve  them.  If  they  stopped  talking  for  five 
seconds,  he'd  prompt  them  to  start  again.  It  was  a  way  of  peering  inside  the  black 
box  of  the  brain  to  see  how  thinking  really  works. 

Heffernan  built  computer  models  that  simulated  the  techniques  different 
students  used  to  solve  math  problems.  In  time,  the  models  were  able  to  predict 
the  performance  of  individual  students. 

"If  you  can  do  that,"  he  says,  "then  you  want  to  build  a  tutor  that  can  say, 
'It  looks  like  you  are  solving  the  problem  this  way;  let  me  tutor  you  that  way.' 
Because  a  tutor  can  track  an  individual  student's  progress,  you  can  do  mastery 
learning — having  students  practice  one  skill  until  they've  mastered  it." 

Heffernan  put  Ms.  Lindquist  on  the  Web  and  made  it  available  for  free  to 
any  school  that  wanted  to  use  it.  As  kids  used  the  tutor,  data  flowed  in  about 
how  they  used  it,  and  how  well  they  learned.  The  feedback  enabled  him  to 
continually  fine-tune  the  program  and  study  its  effectiveness.  He  calls  this 
"data-driven  education,"  something  he  says  is  all  too  rare. 

"We  do  a  hell  of  a  lot  more  work  to  verify  that  a  drug  is  safe  than  we  do 
for  any  educational  intervention,"  he  says,  noting  that  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Education  (most  notably  through  the  No  Child  Left  Behind  mandate)  is  pushing 
hard  to  get  schools  to  focus  more  on  data.  "They  want  to  transform  education 
into  an  empirically  based  science." 


18     Transformations    I   Fall  2  006 


ii/MifflniiffHi  iiiiii ii  i  mi  in  iiiim 

1      Ne     tat      •*"»     Fevertes     Took     Htm 

■<a.^i;- 

1  0*«*  ■  j    9  11  <&;P»-*     f-«"  <*      •  , 

. 

•  _'  '<tt-.7i  i  ii  »i»»..ji<.i»^l>«w^r«lp,»p 

-  Qco 

E&fcS ^^V^^^^      "N^V->. 

U£« 

From  the  start,  Heffernan  says  he  wanted  ASSISTments  to  revolve  around 
the  notion  of  feedback:  to  help  students  learn,  to  help  teachers  better  understand 
the  learning  needs  of  individual  students,  and  to  help  principals  gain  a  more 
complete  and  immediate  picture  of  their  classrooms.  ASSISTments  records  the 
results  of  each  student  session  and  provides  reports  that  teachers  can  use  to  adjust 
their  classroom  teaching. 

Heffernan  says  he  is  excited  by  the  wealth  of  opportunities  ASSISTments 
provides  for  educational  research.  In  fact,  the  software  has  provided  fodder  for 
several  undergraduate  projects  and  a  wide  range  of  research  by  graduate  students. 
One  WPI  student,  for  example,  noticed  that  some  middle  school  students  seemed 
to  "game"  the  system,  just  clicking  through  the  hints  or  guessing  randomly.  He 
developed  software  that  can  detect  the  behavior  and  prod  students  to  get  them 
back  on  track.  He  also  developed  a  graphic  that  appears  atop  every  students  screen 
to  help  teachers  quickly  identify  and  aid  those  who  seem  to  be  struggling. 

"I  want  to  make  mathematics  education  research  drastically  better," 
Heffernan  says  with  the  passion  of  someone  who  has,  himself,  been  on  the 
educational  front  lines.  Indeed,  he  ran  a  tutoring  program  for  6th  graders  in 
Holyoke,  Mass.,  while  an  undergraduate  at  Amherst;  he  also  taught  8th  grade 
math  and  science  in  Baltimore  through  Teach  for  America,  and  taught  for  a 
year  in  Sudbury,  Mass.,  before  joining  WPI. 

After  three  years  of  development,  testing,  and  refinement,  ASSISTments 
may  be  ready  for  its  next  big  trial.  Currently  only  available  to  Worcester  public 
school  students,  Heffernan  would  like  to  roll  out  the  program  statewide.  He 
points  to  studies  that  show  that  tutoring — even  by  an  intelligent  tutoring 
system — produces  "insanely  better"  results  than  classroom  teaching  alone.  "So 
our  schools  could  do  a  lot  better." 

With  the  assistance — and  assessment — of  ASSISTments,  they  almost 
certainly  will. 


Trunglei  ABC  and  DEF  are  o 
The  penmeter  of  triangle  ABC  u 
23aacher  Wham  the  length  of 
ode  DF  ■>  mangle  DEF' 


Let  me  break  Oar  down  for  you 


Wbxb  nde  of  triangle  ABC  has  The  same  a 
as  ode  DF  of  manck  DEF' 


Whal  8  the  penmeter  of  triangle  ABC' 

02*  +  8 

O&  +  X+8 
0'/j'^2x) 


No  Yon  rraght  be  ttankng  thai  the  area  a  1/2  base  txnes  height,  but  you  are  lookaag  for  the 


Pejauctet  g  defined  as  the  nan  of  al  sides  of  a  figure 
Theperroetet  of  triangle  ABC  a  the  sum  >fal*s  sades 


otudents  in  raul  Kings  rorest  Orove  Middle 
School  math  class  were  some  of  the  first  to  use 
ASSISTments.  Their  feedback  — as  well  as  feed- 
back from  two  other  Worcester  schools  — helped 
Hefferman  develop  the  types  of  questions  that 
are  the  heart  of  the  intelligent  tutoring  system 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006     19 


Dennis  Berkey  began  his  tenure  as  WPI's  fifteenth  president  on  July  1,  2004. 
We  caught  up  with  him  shortly  after  Commencement  2006  to  get  his  assessment 
of  his  first  two  years  in  office,  and  his  views  about  what  lies  ahead  for  WPI. 


Imagine  and  Achieve 

A  Discussion  with  President  Dennis  Berkey 


How  has  your  experience  as  WPI's  president 
been  thus  far,  and  what  do  you  see  as  your 
administration's  chief  accomplishments  during  its 
first  two  years? 

I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  this  initial  phase  of  my  presidency. 
Much  is  written  about  how  complex  and  difficult  the  job  of 
a  university  president  has  become.  What  is  often  overlooked 
is  the  joy  of  daily  interaction  with  excellent  students,  faculty, 
and  staff.  This  is  an  outstanding  community  of  talented, 
loyal,  and  highly  productive  individuals  with  whom  Cathy 
and  I  are  very  pleased  to  be  associated. 

Of  course,  a  new  president  is  always  greeted  with  a  host 
of  expectations  and  challenges,  both  foreseen  and  unexpected. 
The  trustees  had  made  clear  their  interest  in  securing  strong 
leadership  to  take  WPI  to  the  next  level,  so  to  speak.  Early 
conversations  with  faculty  and  staff  revealed  a  number  of 
widely  shared  ambitions  and  concerns  that  we  began  address- 
ing right  away  in  the  seven  presidential  commissions.  The 
Worcester  community  was  eager  to  have  WPI  more  actively 
engaged  in  civic  affairs,  and  I  was  appointed  to  a  number  of 
boards  and  invited  to  address  many  groups  and  organizations. 

Much  of  my  time  has  been  spent  reorganizing  and 
strengthening  the  senior  administration,  making  several 
strong  internal  promotions,  retaining  other  key  leaders,  and 
recruiting  excellent  professionals  to  important  positions.  We 
now  have  in  place  an  outstanding  team  of  talented  profes- 
sionals who  have  strengthened  WPI's  financial  operations  and 
performance,  dramatically  increased  applications  for  under- 
graduate admissions,  and  begun  improving  communications 
with  WPI's  many  constituencies,  including  our  alumni. 

We  have  also  made  significant  progress  in  strengthening 
WPI's  academic  programs.  Our  new  WPI  Life  Sciences  and 
Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park,  scheduled  to  open 
in  April,  will  provide  marvelous  facilities  for  research  and 
graduate  education  in  these  fields.  And  WPI's  Bioengineering 


Institute  is  actively  engaging  entrepreneurs  and  companies 
with  our  research  projects  and  faculty. 

Two  of  the  presidential  commissions  have  made  excellent 
progress  mapping  reforms  that  will  greatly  strengthen  general 
education  at  WPI.  Additionally,  the  WPI  Little  Theatre,  which 
opened  last  November,  provides  a  permanent  and  exclusive 
venue  for  our  wonderful  dramatic  productions. 

You  have  spoken  about  your  interest  in  further 
developing  the  life  sciences  at  WPI.  Why  is  this 
important,  and  how  will  this  be  done? 

Life  science  is  the  new  economy  for  Massachusetts,  and 
WPI — through  our  core  strengths  in  engineering  and 
science — can  make  great  contributions  to  the  economic 
development  of  our  region  and  to  improvements  in  the 
quality  of  life.  We  are  thus  investing  in  this  area  by  building 
the  new  WPI  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at 
Gateway  Park,  by  adding  relevant  faculty,  by  deepening 
our  collaborations  with  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School  in  research  and  graduate  education,  and  by 
strengthening  our  capabilities  for  technology  transfer  and 
commercialization. 

Does  this  new  emphasis  on  life  sciences  imply 
a  shift  from  WPI's  traditional  role  in  engineer- 
ing education? 

Not  at  all.  Part  of  a  president's  responsibility  is  to  look  for 
new  opportunities  to  apply  an  institution's  strengths  and 
develop  its  potential.  As  I  wrote  in  the  previous  issue  of  this 
magazine,  the  core  of  engineering  and  science  at  WPI 
remains  strong,  as  will  the  administration's  support  for  it. 
Mechanical  engineering  continues  to  be  our  most  popular 
major  for  undergraduates,  including  programs  in  aerospace 
engineering,  robotics,  and  systems  engineering.  Our  Metals 
Processing  Institute  is  known  worldwide  for  its  innovations 


2  0     Transformations    I   Fall  2  006 


Administrative  Group  members,  from  left,  front  row,  Linda  Looft,  Assistant  VP,  Government  and  Community  Relations;  Carol  Simpson,  Senior  VP 
and  Provost;  Dennis  Berkey,  President  and  CEO;  Dexter  Bailey,  VP,  Development  and  Alumni  Relations;  second  row,  Jeff  Solomon,  VP,  Finance, 
and  CFO;  Chris  Hardwick,  VP,  Marketing  and  Communications;  John  Miller,  Associate  VP,  Physical  Plant;  Tracy  Hassett,  Associate  VP,  Human 
Resources;  Tom  Lynch,  VP,  Information  Technology;  Stephanie  Pasha,  Director  of  Operations;  third  row,  Kristin  Tichenor,  Associate  VP,  Enrollment 
Management;  Steve  Hebert,  University  VP;  Stephen  Flavin,  Associate  Provost  and  Dean,  Corporate  and  Professional  Education;  Janet  Richardson, 
VP,  Student  Affairs  and  Campus  Life;  D'Anne  Hurd,  General  Counsel  and  VP,  Business  Development  at  Gateway  Park. 


in  powder  metallurgy  and  its  leadership  and  support  for 
the  entire  metals  processing  industry.  Faculty  in  chemical 
engineering,  electrical  and  computer  engineering,  and  civil 
and  environmental  engineering  are  doing  important,  funda- 
mental, novel  work — exploring  alternative  energy  sources, 
developing  new  imaging  and  diagnostic  technologies,  advanc- 
ing highway  design  and  traffic  safety,  the  list  goes  on.  I  am 
very  pleased  to  see  not  only  the  strength  of  the  research  and 
academic  programs  in  such  disciplines,  but  also  the  degree  of 
interdisciplinary  collaboration  on  campus  and  with  other 
institutions. 

The  university  has  some  strong  forward 
momentum  right  now— from  Gateway  Park 
and  Bartlett  Center  to  faculty  involvement  in 
the  commissions'  work  to  study  critical  issues 
at  WPI.  From  your  perspective,  where  is  the 
university  headed? 

WPI's  historical  commitment  to  lehr  und  kunst-ax\<\  the 
structure  of  the  WPI  Plan  will  continue  to  guide  the  institu- 
tion's evolution,  adapted  to  today's  and  tomorrow's  challenges. 
Young  people  preparing  for  careers  in  our  increasingly  tech- 
nological world  will  benefit  greatly  from  knowledge  of  science 
and  technology,  excellent  communication  and  critical  think- 
ing skills,  an  appreciation  for  other  cultures  and  for  the 
values  of  the  arts  and  humanities,  and  the  ability  to  work 


cooperatively  with  individuals  of  differing  talents  and 
personalities.  These  are  precisely  the  attributes  instilled  by 
the  WPI  Plan  and  our  global  studies  program.  Thus,  our 
approach  to  reforming  the  undergraduate  program  will  be 
one  of  evolution,  not  revolution. 

We  will,  however,  broaden  the  range  of  undergraduate 
majors  to  include  programs  within  traditional  fields,  such 
as  robotics;  interdisciplinary  programs  within  science  and 
engineering,  such  as  environmental  engineering  or  bioinfor- 
matics;  and  programs  outside  of,  but  related  to,  the  core  of 
science  and  engineering,  such  as  communications,  scientific 
and  technological  writing,  health  science,  architectural  engi- 
neering, and  entrepreneurship.  This  broadening  will  make 
WPI  more  attractive  to  a  larger  number  of  students,  realizing 
that  the  number  of  American  high  school  graduates  interested 
in  majoring  in  science  and  engineering  is  decreasing.  Simply 
put,  this  form  of  education  is  superbly  appropriate  for  smart 
young  people  preparing  to  make  a  difference  in  the  world. 

We  are  honing  the  first-year  experience,  which  was  one 
of  the  recommendations  that  resulted  from  the  work  of  the 
presidential  commissions.  We  are  looking  to  reduce  the  use 
of  traditional  lectures,  add  broader,  more  integrative  work  to 
emphasize  communication  and  critical  thinking,  increase  the 
use  of  instructional  technology,  promote  early  involvement 
with  projects,  and  broaden  student  involvement  in  the  arts 
and  humanities. 


Trans  format  ions    \   Fall  2006     2  1 


If  you  understand  and 

appreciate  the  power  of 

science  and  technology, 

and  if  you  want  to 

make  a  difference  in  the 

world,  then  there  is  no 

better  place  for  your 

education  than  WPI. 


We  will  continue  to  increase  our  activities  in  research 
and  graduate  education,  producing  the  scientific  and  techno- 
logical innovations  on  which  our  economy  and  our  health 
care  system  are  so  critically  dependent.  These  interdisciplinary 
programs  will  reflect  the  nature  of  the  problems  to  be  solved. 

The  campus  will  become  increasingly  attractive  with  the 
addition  of  modern,  apartment-style  residence  halls,  expanded 
recreation  and  fitness  facilities,  and  renovated  and  expanded 
library  and  academic  facilities.  One  or  more  new  academic 
buildings  will  no  doubt  appear,  as  a  number  of  our  programs, 
including  Fire  Protection  Engineering  and  the  MBA  in  the 
Management  of  Technology,  continue  to  grow. 

The  overall  vision  for  WPI  will  continue  to  emerge 
through  ongoing  discussions  with  the  faculty,  staff,  students, 
alumni,  and  trustees.  But  I  see  two  overarching  aspects  that 
will  guide  us.  One  is  the  increasing  importance  of  innovation 
as  a  central  characteristic  of  our  work  together.  The  WPI 
Plan  and  the  global  studies  program  enable  students  to  use 
their  powers  of  imagination  and  creativity  to  recognize  and 
solve  important  problems.  But  scientific  knowledge  and  tech- 
nological competence  alone  are  no  longer  sufficient  to  keep 
our  nation's  industries,  or  its  graduates,  competitive  in  the 
global  marketplace.  The  critical  differentiator  will  be  the  abil- 
ity to  imagine  and  achieve  the  novel  approaches,  methods, 
techniques,  technologies,  and  products  that  go  beyond  the 
predictable  and  that  meet  real  and  future  economic  or  social 
needs.  The  WPI  experience  is  well  positioned  to  foster  this 
essential  aspect  of  innovation. 

The  other  imperative  is  to  embrace  entrepreneurship 
more  fully  as  an  explicit  part  of  our  mission.  Already,  a  large 
percentage  of  WPI  graduates  go  on  to  develop  products  and 


technologies,  found  companies,  and  assume  leadership  posi- 
tions. We  should  ensure  access  for  students  and  alumni  to 
the  resources  and  knowledge  they  will  need,  such  as  is  cur- 
rently provided  by  the  WPI  Venture  Forum  and  the  courses 
in  entrepreneurship.  WPI  has  a  long  and  distinguished 
history  of  fostering  and  leading  economic  development,  so 
an  appreciation  for  entrepreneurship  is  not  something  new 
for  WPI.  We  must  ensure  that  it  is  a  recognized  and  valued 
characteristic,  shaped  appropriately  for  present  conditions 
and  opportunities. 

In  your  Commencement  remarks,  you  urged 
students,  specifically  graduate  students  and 
doctoral  degree  recipients,  to  use  their  focused 
degrees  as  an  opportunity  to  think  broadly, 
rather  than  to  limit  themselves  by  the  scope 
of  their  specialization.  Is  this  concern  another 
reason  why  you  see  WPI's  need  to  broaden 
its  programs  and  mission? 

Yes,  you  grasp  it  perfectly.  The  danger  of  specialization, 
especially  for  PhD  candidates,  is  that  the  individual  may 
see  himself  or  herself  as  qualified  to  make  meaningful  contri- 
butions only  within  his  or  her  narrow  area  of  specialization, 
when  just  the  opposite  is  true.  For  example,  the  revolution 
in  biology  over  the  past  30  years  has  attracted  individuals 
with  degrees  from  many  fields  outside  the  life  sciences, 
including  the  physical  sciences,  mathematics,  and  computer 
science.  Similarly,  WPI's  academic  programs,  although  they 
center  on  science  and  technology,  provide  excellent  prepara- 
tion for  students  to  succeed  inside  and  outside  science 
and  engineering. 


22     Transformations    I    Fall  2006 


Scientific  knowledge  and  technological 

competence  alone  are  no  longer  sufficient  to 

keep  our  nations  industries,  or  its  graduates, 

competitive  in  the  global  marketplace.  The 

critical  differentiator  will  be  the  ability  to 

imagine  and  achieve  the  novel  approaches, 

methods,  techniques,  technologies,  and  products 

that  go  beyond  the  predictable  and  that  meet 

real  and  future  economic  or  social  needs. 


WPI  is  actively  engaged  in  raising  diversity 
awareness  on  campus.  We  are  reaching  out 
to  students  who  might  not  previously  have 
considered  applying  to  WPI.  How  will  the 
university  continue  this  momentum  and  why 
are  these  efforts  important? 

We  have  started  at  the  top  by  significantly  diversifying  the 
senior  leadership  team.  That  sets  the  tone  and  signals  the  depth 
of  our  commitment.  We  continue  to  make  the  recruitment  of 
a  diverse  faculty,  staff,  and  student  body  a  high  priority;  we 
are  making  steady  progress,  although  we  have  a  long  way  to  go. 

The  importance  of  having  such  diversity  lies  in  the 
essence  of  what  a  university  is— an  institution  dedicated  to 
excellence  in  all  aspects  of  human  development.  If  we  fail  to 
welcome  and  support  outstanding  individuals,  both  women 
and  men  of  all  races  and  ethnicities,  then  we  fail  to  take  full 
advantage  of  the  best  talent  available.  We  also  fail  to  provide 
convincing  role  models  for  individuals  undecided  on  whether 
WPI  is  a  community  welcoming  and  supportive  of  all  worthy 
individuals. 


You  have  mentioned  strengthening  relations 
with  alumni  as  an  important  goal/  and  you  have 
made  some  administrative  changes  in  the  area 
of  alumni  relations.  What  is  your  commitment 
and  plan  in  this  area? 

Alumni  comprise  the  university's  largest  and  most  important 
constituency.  They  represent,  and  have  experienced,  much 
of  WPI's  history,  and  many  of  our  alumni  have  been  actively 
engaged  and  deeply  committed  to  advancing  the  university  as 
trustees,  donors,  volunteers,  and  key  supporters  in  many  ways. 

To  serve  our  alumni  more  effectively,  we  have  elevated 
the  position  of  director  of  alumni  relations  to  assistant  vice 
president  status  and  integrated  the  Office  of  Annual  Giving 
under  this  new  position.  We  are  offering  several  new  benefits 
to  alumni,  including  new  regional  clubs,  more  frequent  com- 
munications, and  increased  career  development  services.  I 
hope  that  we  can  use  our  strong  distance  education  capabili- 
ties to  bring  interesting  programming  from  the  campus  to 
alumni  worldwide.  In  my  travels  and  in  our  events  on  cam- 
pus I  have  greatly  enjoyed  meeting  our  alumni.  I  find  them 
highly  enthusiastic  and  supportive  of  WPI,  and  I  look  for- 
ward to  meeting  many  more  of  them  in  the  years  ahead. 

Why  is  WPI  important,  and  what  motivates  you 
to  meet  the  daunting  challenge  of  leadership? 

If  you  understand  and  appreciate  the  power  of  science  and 
technology,  and  if  you  want  to  make  a  difference  in  the 
world,  then  there  is  no  better  place  for  your  education  than 
WPI.  If  you  want  to  be  part  of  this  educational  process  as  a 
faculty  member,  and  if  you  want  to  do  research  that  leads  to 
truly  important  innovation  in  a  highly  collaborative  environ- 
ment, then  WPI  is  an  excellent  place  to  make  your  career. 
If  you  are  a  citizen  of  Worcester,  you  know  how  important 
WPI  is  to  the  continuing  economic  development  and  quality 
of  life  in  this  marvelous  city.  All  of  us  associated  with  WPI 
appreciate,  and  are  motivated  by,  these  qualities,  and  we 
relish  the  opportunity  of  working  in  such  an  important, 
collegial,  and  rewarding  academic  community.  D 

Transformations    I    Fall  2006     23 


I 


- 


Reflecting 
on  35  Years  of 


■ 

II                                                                       I 

■ 



1 . 

By  William  R.  Grogan 


•4    % 


•nii 


In  1967,  10  years  after  Russia  launched  Sputnik  into 
space,  a  storm  was  brewing  at  WPI.  At  a  faculty 
meeting,  the  late  Bill  Shipman,  chemical  engineering 
professor,  suggested  a  movement  for  the  university  to 
study  its  very  nature  and  institutional  purpose.  And  so 
began  a  remarkable  series  of  meetings,  debates,  and 
heated  interactions  in  which  the  WPI  community,  led 
by  a  group  of  visionaries,  created  a  revolutionary 
new  curriculum,  the  WPI  Plan. 

Certainly,  everyone  didn't  agree  with  the  tenets 
of  the  Plan;  but  no  one  can  argue  that  it  has  provided  a 
foundation  from  which  the  university  continues  to  evaluate 
and  improve  its  curriculum.  On  the  35th  anniversary  of 
implementing  the  Plan,  Transformations  asked  Bill  Grogan  '46, 
professor  emeritus  of  electrical  engineering  and  dean  emeritus 
of  undergraduate  studies,  to  reflect  on  the  past  four  decades. 


24     Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


On  the  afternoon  of  May  10,  1970, 
after  many  amendments  and  fiery  predic- 
tions, the  faculty,  in  a  great  leap  of  faith, 
voted  92-48  to  adopt  the  WPI  Plan  as  the 
university's  irrevocable  path  to  the  future.  I 
was  appointed  dean  of  undergraduate  studies 
by  President  George  Hazzard,  with  his  three- 
word  job  directive:  "Implement  the  Plan." 

Historically,  changes  in  education  arrive  piecemeal. 
WPI,  however,  designed  an  entirely  new  system  of  education 
to  meet  established  objectives.  These  objectives  emphasized 
developing  students'  creativity  and  responsibility  through  a 
highly  flexible  curriculum.  A  competency  examination  and 
qualifying  projects — including  the  Interactive  Qualifying 
Project  (IQP)  to  relate  science  and  technology  with  human 
values  and  social  need — were  established  for  academic 
accountability  and  were  required  for  graduation. 

Projects,  especially  the  IQP,  were  to  be  performed,  when 
possible,  at  appropriate  off-campus  sites.  There  was  a  new 
grading  system  with  only  two  grades  (no  F  grades  or  GPAs). 
And,  to  accommodate  the  anticipated  thousands  of  project 
registrations,  we  implemented  a  unique  undergraduate  calendar 
with  seven-week  terms.  After  1 0  brave  but  traumatic  years, 
the  competency  exam  was  replaced  by  course  distribution 
requirements.  The  grading  system  reverted  to  using  letters, 
but  still  without  an  F  grade.  Remarkably,  little  else  of  a  critical 
nature  was  changed. 

Other  institutions  expected — perhaps  even  nervously 
hoped — that  WPI  would  lose  its  standing  with  the  Accreditation 
Board  of  Engineering  and  Technology  (ABET).  We  not  only 
maintained  full  accreditation,  but  we  lived  to  see  some  of  our 
ideas  imbedded  in  ABET's  criteria. 


The  disciplinary  Major  Qualifying 
Project  grew  steadily  in  quality  and 
sophistication.  Today,  a  number  of 
MQPs  are  even  of  master's  degree  quality. 
Many  students  report  that  their  off-campus 
project  is  the  most  influential  experience 
of  their  WPI  careers.  In  fact,  WPI  leads 
the  nation  in  the  number  of  students  we 
send  abroad.  Today,  students  earn  credit  at  project  centers 
on  five  continents,  where  they  blend  technical  and  social 
research  to  solve  critical  problems.  On  campus,  courses  in 
all  the  departments  have  grown  in  number,  quality,  breadth, 
and  depth. 

It  has  often  been  said  that  the  WPI  Plan  was  25  years 
ahead  of  its  time  when  it  was  launched.  Now  that  35  years 
have  passed,  not  only  has  technology  transformed  in  sub- 
stance, but  its  effects  upon  society  have  been  explosive.  While 
we  see  the  United  States  leading  in  biomedical  developments 
and  many  diverse  technologies,  we  also  see  a  populous  India 
developing  its  software  genius,  and  the  boundless  energetic 
manpower  of  China  and  the  East  transforming  engineering 
and  manufacturing  enterprises.  For  WPI's  graduates,  the 
future  will  hold  great  opportunities  for  those  with  skills  in 
science  and  technology,  but  also  for  those  who  have  the  energy 
and  self-confidence  to  develop  collateral  abilities  in  areas 
such  as  international  organization,  management  of  natural 
resources,  communications,  finance,  cultural  adaptability, 
and  entrepreneurial  self-confidence. 

We  at  WPI  have  gained  an  enviable  position  through  the 
structure  of  our  educational  program.  Our  challenge  now  lies 
in  developing  the  resources  and  collective  self-confidence  to 
again  move  ahead  with  a  new  vision  for  the  future.  D 


the  WPI  Plan  was  25  years  ahead  of  its  time 

not  only  has 
technology  transformed 


•   • 


E 


fs 


-~     * 


Although  Richard  Liebich  finds  it 
gratifying  to  see  individual  students         v 
become  inspired  and  succeed, 
he  has  his  eye  on  the  larger  picture. 
"This  is  about  the  national  prosperity/7    I 


Leading  the  Way 


By  Joan  Killough-Miller 


Concerned  that  high  school  students  weren't  getting  proper  pre-engineering 
exposure,  Richard  Liebich  '66  leveraged  his  philanthropic  means  to  turn  a 
local  program  into  a  premier  national  effort  to  educate  future  engineers. 


Ask  Richard  Liebich  how  to  get  kids  to  love  science  and 
engineering.  "Get  them  talking  about  what  they  hate,"  he 
says.  "Start  with  an  open-ended  sentence,  like  'I  hate  it 
when...'  They're  bound  to  come  up  with  something  that 
really  bothers  them." 

For  one  teenager  in  snowy  upstate  New  York,  her  pet 
gripe — an  unreliable  remote  car  starter — led  her  to  invent  a 
cell  phone-activated  starter  that  works  beyond  the  range  of 
traditional  remotes,  and  even  calls  back  to  notify  the  owner 
that  the  car  is  running. 

And  that's  where  the  learning  begins,  says  Liebich, 
who  heads  Project  Lead  the  Way  (PLTW),  a  national  pre- 
engineering  program  offered  in  1,700  high  schools  in  46 
states  and  the  District  of  Columbia.  A  successful  business- 
man and  philanthropist  with  an  MBA  from  Michigan  State 
University,  Liebich  serves  as  CEO  and  chairman  of  the  board 
for  PLTW.  He  divides  his  workweek  between  his  business, 
Transport  National  Development,  an  industrial  cutting  tool 
manufacturer  in  Orchard  Park,  N.Y.,  and  his  charitable  con- 
cerns. He  also  serves  as  CEO  of  three  other  companies: 
North  American  Carbide,  Cerbide  Inc.,  and  Advanced 
Material  Technology  Inc. 

PLTW  is  a  not-for-profit  organization  with  roots  in 
the  Charitable  Leadership  Foundation  (CLF),  an  innovative 
organization  founded  by  Liebichs  father.  CLF  promotes  a 
performance-centered  strategy  of  "high  engagement  philan- 
thropy" to  effect  change  in  the  areas  of  education,  housing, 
and  health  care  for  people  in  need.  As  CEO  of  a  related 
organization,  the  Charitable  Venture  Foundation,  Liebich 
fosters  responsible  entrepreneurship  to  address  social  and 
educational  issues. 


Liebichs  involvement  with  PLTW7  began  in  the  mid  90s 
with  his  own  son,  Adam,  now  26.  In  middle  school,  Adam 
was  enchanted  with  engineering,  but  his  school's  approach — 
and  its  equipment — were  hopelessly  out  of  date.  Liebichs 
wife,  Beth,  tells  this  story:  "Adam  came  home  from  school 
one  day  saying,  'You  aren't  going  to  believe  what  we  did 
today.  It  was  so  cool!  We  were  doing  engineering,  and  we  had 
egg  cartons,  and  string  and  a  board...'  And  Richard  exclaimed 
in  dismay,  'You've  got  to  be  kidding!   He  found  out  the 
school  was  still  using  early  Apple  computers  from  the  1 970s, 
and  sadly  outdated  software. 

Liebich  went  into  action,  and  leveraged  CLF's  resources 
to  expand  a  promising  high  school  technology  program  in 
use  at  12  New  York  State  schools  into  the  national  network  it 
has  become.  (WPI  is  the  programs  Massachusetts  affiliate;  see 
story,  next  page.) 

Abu  see  a  lot  of  kids  who  tune  out  the  system,  because 
they  don't  learn  the  way  the  system  wants  to  teach  them,"  he 
says.  "When  thev  get  into  PLTW  they  blossom,  because  it's 
a  new  way  of  learning.  Then,  they  re  willing  to  go  back  and 
suffer  though  a  traditional  math  class — because  now  they 
understand  why  they've  got  to  learn  it  and  how  they  will 
use  it." 

Although  Liebich  finds  it  gratifving  to  see  individual 
students  become  inspired  and  succeed,  he  has  his  eye  on 
the  larger  picture.  "This  is  about  the  national  prosperity" 
he  says.  "In  my  business,  my  customers  are  engineers,  and 
thev're  all  complaining  about  the  engineering  shortage.  You 
put  that  together  with  the  school  piece,  and  you  see  we've 
got  a  real  problem  here.  Our  education  system  is  in  trouble. 
Manufacturing  is  in  trouble.  We,  as  a  nation  are  in  trouble." 

continued  on  page  29 


Transformations    I    Fall  200b     27 


"I  consider  PLTW  to  be  the  premier,  full-curriculum  program  for 

top-level  high  school  students.  It  gives  students  the  opportunity 

to  experience  real  engineering,  over  multiple  years." 

—  Martha  Cyr 


Priming  the  Pipeline 


PLTW  calls  for  a  "dynamic  partnership"  between  the  K— 12  schools, 
industry,  and  higher  education.  In  2005,  WPI  joined  in  that 
partnership  as  the  PLTW  affiliate  for  Massachusetts.  WPI  also 
serves  PLTW's  New  England  region  as  part  of  a  coalition  with  the 
University  of  New  Haven  and  New  Hampshire  Technical  Institute. 
The  start-up  was  funded  by  a  generous  donation  to  WPI  from 
Edna  and  Doug  Noiles  '44,  who  wanted  to  make  a  difference 
in  K— 12  education. 

Martha  Cyr  '87(MS),  '97(PhD),  director  of  WPI's  K-12  outreach, 
serves  as  the  state  PLTW  affiliate  director,  assisted  by  PLTW 
program  manager  Bonniejean  Boettcher.  They  provide  resources  to 
Massachusetts  schools  offering  PLTW  programs,  and  are 
responsible  for  evaluating  schools  that  seek  PLTW  certification. 

Currently,  over  20  schools  in  the  state  participate  in  PLTW, 
although  Cyr  anticipates  that  number  could  triple  or  even 
quadruple  over  time.  "Once  schools  see  how  their  students 
respond  to  PLTW,  they  are  converted,"  she  says.  "They  like  the 
way  the  kids  get  engaged  in  it.  It's  extremely  rewarding." 

PLTW's  strengths  include  the  highly  developed  curriculum,  which 
is  extensively  tested  before  release,  and  the  high  standards 
expected  of  participating  schools.  (Schools  must  sign  a  contract 
with  a  four-year  commitment.)  "I  consider  PLTW  to  be  the  premier, 
full-curriculum  program  for  top-level  high  school  students,"  Cyr 
says.  "It  gives  students  the  opportunity  to  experience  real 
engineering,  over  multiple  years." 

The  Office  of  K-12  Outreach  works  with  more  than  40  WPI 
programs,  of  which  PLTW  is  just  one,  offering  a  wide  variety 
of  opportunities  in  the  areas  of  technological  literacy  and  in 
science  and  mathematics  learning  and  teaching.  WPI  is  a  fertile 
environment  for  PLTW  programs,  Cyr  says,  because  the  campus 
offers  easy  access  to  specialized  laboratories  and  relevant 
research.  PLTW  fits  in  with  the  outreach  office's  mission  of  offering 


students  the  opportunity  to  understand  what  engineering  is,  while 
they're  still  in  elementary  and  secondary  school. 

"This  exposure  lets  students  consider  engineering  as  a  career," 
Cyr  says.  "They  really  need  to  get  this  exposure  prior  to  college, 
because  unlike  most  other  disciplines,  engineering  is  a  field  where 
you  need  to  have  made  a  career  decision  before  you  enter 
college,  in  order  to  hit  the  ground  running." 

Indeed,  graduates  of  pre-engineering  programs  such  as  PLTW 
have  a  much  higher  retention  rate  in  college-level  engineering 
programs,  often  because  students  know  what  they  are  getting  into, 
and  they  are  better  prepared  for  the  rigors  of  the  discipline. 

Intensive  teacher  training  is  a  cornerstone  of  PLTW's  success,  and 
WPI  plays  an  important  role  by  offering  Summer  Training  Institute 
(STI)  courses  for  teachers  and  guidance  counselors.  This  "summer 
boot  camp"  runs  five  days  a  week  for  about  eight  hours  a  day.  It 
covers  a  year's  worth  of  curriculum  in  1 0  days.  The  classes  are  co- 
taught  by  experienced  K-12  teachers  and  higher  education 
personnel.  This  summer,  professors  Holly  Ault  '74,  '83  (MS), 
'88  (PhD)  and  Leffi  Malloy  joined  Cyr  in  conducting  the  sessions, 
which  included  Introduction  to  Engineering  Design,  Digital 
Electronics,  Civil  Engineering  and  Architecture,  and  Aerospace 
Engineering. 

The  university  perspective  is  important,  says  Cyr,  because  it  helps 
inform  teachers  about  what  lies  ahead  for  their  engineering 
students  in  terms  of  postsecondary  education  and  the  preparation 
required  for  their  chosen  career  tracks.  At  the  same  time,  it  gives 
high  school  teachers  an  opportunity  to  become  familiar  with  WPI. 
An  STI  participant  told  Cyr  last  summer,  "Now  that  I've  been  to 
WPI  and  seen  the  quality  of  its  programs  and  the  type  of  project 
work  that  its  students  do,  I'm  going  to  recommend  that  all  my 
PLTW  students  apply  here." 

-JKM 


As  part  of  WPI's  outreach,  regional  high  school  teachers  spent  two  weeks  taking  classes  and  participating  in  other  training  activities  on  campus  this  summer. 
These  educators  returned  to  their  respective  schools  this  fall  with  new  ideas— such  as  creating  water  filtration  systems  — that  will  enhance  their  science  curricula. 


The  teaching  method 

is  based  on  studies 

showing  that  the 

majority  of  people 

learn  best  through 

direct  experience, 

rather  than  lecture  or 

theoretical  methods. 


PLTW  brings  together  industry-,  colleges  and  universities, 
and  K-12  schools  to  provide  high-caliber  educational  oppor- 
tunities in  the  area  of  science,  engineering,  and  technology. 
The  curriculum,  which  is  provided  to  schools  on  CD  at  no 
charge,  is  updated  regularly.  Teachers  receive  intensive  training 
and  ongoing  support  from  the  organization.  The  high  school 
program  involves  four  years  of  high-tech,  hands-on  courses 
that  are  modeled  after  university-level  engineering  courses,  plus 
a  capstone  design  project.  Students  complete  their  education 
with  mathematics,  science,  and  other  courses  from  their 
schools'  own  curriculum.  PLTW  is  self-funded,  with  revenues 
coming  from  software  leases  and  some  equipment  purchases. 

The  PLTW  teaching  method  is  based  on  studies  showing 
that  the  majority  of  people  learn  best  through  direct  experi- 
ence, rather  than  lecture  or  theoretical  methods.  For  example, 
Liebich  points  out,  few  people  could  learn  how  to  assemble 
a  wristwatch,  given  only  a  parts  list  and  a  lengthy  instruction 
manual.  "But  if  I  handed  you  the  watch,  all  in  pieces,  and 
I  helped  you  put  it  back  together,  you  would  retain  much 
more,"  he  says.  "The  mind  sets  up  hooks  that  you  can  hang 
information  on.  If  you  have  no  hooks,  the  information  just 
falls  into  a  .useless  pile  that  the  brain  sweeps  out  on  a  regular 
basis.  Your  brain  only  retains  things  you  have  a  use  for. 


PLTW  recently  launched  a  middle  school  program  called 
Gateway  to  Technology,  and  elementary  school  offerings  are 
in  the  works.  The  program  got  some  popular  exposure  when 
a  PLTW  teacher  and  students  in  Florida  appeared  on  the 
"Extreme  Makeover"  television  show,  designing  a  21st  centu- 
ry bedroom  for  a  youngster,  and  presenting  him  with  a 
S60,000  scholarship  to  the  University  of  South  Florida, 
where  the  boy  would  like  to  learn  to  design  robotic  eyes  for 
his  blind  lather. 

In  June,  Liebich  returned  to  WPI  for  Reunion  2006 
to  accept  the  Alumni  Association's  first-ever  WPI  Humani- 
tarian Leadership  Award  (read  his  full  award  citation  at 
wvvvv.wpi.edu/Admin/Alumni/News/Awards/HLA/).  In  his 
acceptance  speech,  he  downplayed  his  own  achievements, 
saying:  "In  truth,  this  award  belongs  to  the  many  people  who 
recognize  that  your  schools  need  to  be  transformed,  rather 
than  reformed." 

He  speaks  proudly  of  the  strong  enthusiasm  that  runs 
throughout  the  PLTW  organization.  "The  support  staff  are 
some  of  our  most  enthusiastic  supporters,"  he  says.  "They're 
out  there,  pumping  away  in  their  local  schools.  It's  fun  being 
out  there,  trying  to  change  the  world.  You  don't  get  very 
many  opportunities  to  do  that."  ■ 


To  find  out  about  PLTW  in  your  state,  and  learn  how  you  and  your  employer  can  get  involved,  go  to  www. PLTW.  org. 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006     2  9 


V 


When  they  were  students  at  WPI,  both  Domenico 
Grasso  '77  and  Emily  Dodd  '03  never  imagined 
the  career  paths  they  eventually 
would  follow.  Grasso  thought  he 
would  be  working  as  an  engineer  — 
and,  for  a  decade  after  receiving 
his  master's  degree,  he  served  as 
an  environmental  engineer  for  the 
U.S.  Army.  Dodd  had  no  doubt  that 
she  would  be  a  bilingual  emer- 
gency room  doctor  in  a  large  city 
on  the  East  Coast.  Today,  both  are 
educators  in  love  with  their  jobs, 
thrilled  at  the  opportunity  to  com- 
bine science  and  humanity.  Grasso 
is  dean  of  the  College  of  Engineering 
and  Mathematical  Sciences  at  the  University 
of  Vermont,  where  he  is  also  a  professor.  Dodd 
teaches  chemistry  at  the  Manhattan  Center  for 
Science  and  Mathematics  in  East  Harlem.  Now 
50  and  25,  respectively,  the  two  WPI  graduates 


from  two  generations  share  not  only  a  profes- 
sion, but  also  a  fresh  outlook  on  the  future  of 
math  and  science  education. 

On  a  June  morning,  Domenico  Grasso 
is  busy  in  his  Burlington,  Vt.,  office.  He 
has  recently  returned  from  Australia,  where 
he  was  setting  up  a  collaborative  program 
with  the  University  of  Tasmania.  Closer  to 
home,  he  is  preparing  to  address  the  graduat- 
ing class  of  a  local  high  school.  He  wants  to 
speak  about  having  an  effect  in  the  world — 
a  sentiment  that  gains  new  life  coming  from 
a  man  who  aims  to  overturn  traditional 
notions  of  engineering's  place  in  society. 
It  all  comes  down  to  thinking.  For  too  long,  Grasso 
believes,  engineers  have  been  encouraged  to  think  in  a  certain 
way.  In  effect,  they  have  been  trained  to  be  what  he  calls  "the 
agents  of  work.  They  are  the  drones.  Engineers  have  taken 
that  up  as  a  good  thing." 


3  0     Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


He  continues,  "I  couldn't  live  in  this  world  of  servitude. 
What  I  wanted  was  to  make  a  difference  in  the  world.  I  had 
to  think  outside  the  box." 

Grasso  certainly  has  excelled  in  the  old-fashioned  version 
of  his  field — obtaining  degrees  in  civil  engineering  from  WPI 
and  Purdue  University,  and  a  PhD  in  environmental  engi- 
neering from  the  University  of  Michigan.  His  research  has 
focused  on  the  ultimate  fate  of  contaminants  in  the  environ- 
ment, and  in  developing  techniques  to  reduce  the  risks  they 
pose  to  human  health  and  natural  resources.  He  has  received 
the  honor  of  "Pioneer  in  Disinfection"  from  the  Water  Envi- 
ronment Federation  and  has  been  invited  to  join  boards  and 
research  teams  in  America  and  abroad. 

Still,  he  is  fascinated  by  multiple  perspectives  in  learning. 
At  Smith  College — where,  until  last  year,  he  was  the  found- 
ing director  of  the  first  engineering  program  at  a  women's 
college  in  the  United  States — Grasso  set  out  to  strengthen  the 
bridge  between  engineering  and  the  human  spirit.  In  an  arti- 
cle describing  this  mission,  he  wrote,  "After  all,  what  is 
engineering? ...  A  common  misperception  is  that  engineering 
is  another  one  of  the  sciences.  It  is  not.  Engineering  decisions 
rarely  hinge  entirely  on  science.  Rather,  engineers  must  also 
consider  many  other  factors,  such  as  economics,  safety,  acces- 
sibility, manufacturability,  reliability,  and  sustainability 

Engineers  must  learn  to  manage  and  integrate  a  wide  variety 
of  information  and  knowledge  to  make  sound  decisions." 

To  help  teach  his  more  holistic  approach,  Grasso  is 
thinking  of  making  a  subscription  to  The  Atlantic  magazine 
as  mandatory  as  a  laptop  for  students  in  the  UVM  program. 
Citing  the  writings  of  Harvard  University  biologist  E.  O. 
Wilson,  he  says,  "One  of  the  things  we're  basing  the  under- 
graduate curriculum  on  is  the  'unity  of  knowledge.'"  Grasso 
uses  such  terms  as  "full  intellectual  engagement"  to  describe 
the  mind-set  that  will  succeed  in  the  years  to  come. 

"We  are  facing  a  juggernaut  of  engineering 
graduates  from  overseas,"  he  asserts.  "The  tech- 
nical stuff  can  be  outsourced.  They  can  do  as 
good  a  job.  We  could  be  the  big  thinkers,  the 
problem  definers." 

Perhaps  being  the  child  of  Italian  immi- 
grants gave  Grasso  the  perspective  to  see  things 
from  an  unusual  vantage  point.  "I  had  to  think 
outside  the  box  because  my  parents  couldn't 
speak  English,"  he  maintains.  Grasso  didn't 
speak  the  language  until  kindergarten,  and  at 
16,  he  served  as  his  mother's  agent  in  his  parents' 
divorce.  Now  that  he  is  in  a  position  to  help 
shape  young  people,  Grasso  has  instituted  inno- 
vations— such  as  appointing  a  "director  of 
student  success" — to  support  those  who  have 
embarked  on  the  rigors  of  an  engineering 


curriculum.  He  wants  courses  in  the  21st  century  to  be  learner- 
centered,  hands-on,  and  related  to  one  another. 

Grasso,  the  father  of  four  children  ages  8  to  15,  under- 
stands that  changing  the  college  offerings  is  only  part  of  the 
solution.  In  addition  to  redefining  the  nature  of  engineering 
studies,  he  also  hopes  to  attract  a  different  pool  of  students. 
He  recalls  the  case  of  a  young  woman  at  Smith — an  aspiring 
fashion  designer  from  California  who  had  signed  up  for  his 
course  "Designing  the  Future,"  on  the  assumption  that  it 
would  bolster  her  background.  Grasso  is  proud  to  point  out 
that  the  woman  stayed  in  the  course,  became  an  engineering 
major,  and  went  on  to  study  policy  at  the  graduate  level. 

In  reflecting  on  his  own  education,  he  remembers  the 
way  in  which  engineers  would  denigrate  the  liberal  arts  as 
"too  fluffy."  At  Michigan — a  school  Grasso  describes  as  having 
a  strong  liberal  arts  tradition — he  discovered  that  those  in  the 
liberal  arts  were  just  as  intelligent  as  engineers.  There,  he  also 
met  his  wife,  who  was  a  Latin  scholar  as  well  as  an  engineer. 
A  talk  by  one  of  her  Latin  professors  reinforced  Grasso's 
evolving  philosophy.  Quoting  classical  texts,  the  Michigan 
professor  described  the  diverse  ways  in  which  writings  are 
interpreted,  depending  on  the  period  and  context. 

"Every  day  and  age  is  seeking  some  kind  of  truth," 
Grasso  explains.  "It  is  different  in  different  times.  Unfortunately, 
engineers  don't  ask  those  questions."  If  they  did,  he  argues, 
they  might  not  simply  design  a  particular  car;  they  would  ask 
whether  the  car  is  the  best  way  to  get  around.  Or  whether  it 
is  ethical  for  engineers  to  plan  New  Orleans'  new  levees  to  a 
standard  they  feel  is  inadequate. 

"Engineers  need  to  ask  the  right  questions,"  he  insists, 
"not  just  do  what  people  tell  them." 


Domenico  Grasso  enjoys  the  quiet  of  UVM's  Billings  Student  Center. 


Tran  sfo  r mat ions    I     Fall  2006     31 


V 


* 


X< 


* 


t 


From  one  genera. 


d  inspires  a 


Science  was  always  part  of  Emily  Dodd's  life, 

even  when  she  was  too  young  to  call  it  by  that  name.  As  the 
daughter  of  two  WPI  graduates  (Charles  Dodd  74  and  Anne 
McPartland  Dodd  75),  she  was  surrounded  by  projects  and 
activities — games  with  numbers,  experiments  growing  radish 
seeds  in  different  materials — that  let  her 
try  something  out  and  discover  the 
results.  In  her  hometown  of  Mont 
Vernon,  N.H.,  she  relished  the  quiet  that 
came  along  with  the  rural  setting  because 
it  allowed  her  to  reflect  and  observe. 
At  a  young  age,  she  decided  she 
would  become  an  emergency  room  physi- 
cian, to  give  practical  use  to  her  sense  of 
wonder.  But  one  night  in  a  civil  engineering 


lab,  while  working  on  her  MQP  on  water  treatment,  a  fateful 
online  search  led  Dodd  to  stray  from  her  plan.  On  Monster.com 
she  saw  a  posting  for  a  New  York  City  teaching  fellow— and 
she  hasn't  looked  back.  It's  been  three  years  since  she  graduated 
with  high  distinction  as  a  biochemistry  major  and  traded  the 
New  Hampshire  countryside  for  the  rhythms  of 
Manhattan.  "People  ask  me,  'New  York  City 
and  teaching — what  are  you  doing?'"  Dodd 
says.  "I  tell  them,  'Looking  for  an  adven- 
ture. 

"I  was  looking  for  something  exciting, 
something  I  could  really  sink  my  teeth  into," 
she  explains.  "Science  was  something  I  always 
enjoyed.  I  wanted  to  be  able  to  pass  that  on 
to  another  generation." 


32     Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


"I  would  encourage  WPI  grads  from  all  walks  of  life 

to  bridge  the  gap  between  science  and  society: 

donate  materials  to  a  school,  tutor  students,  invite 

students  to  visit  you  at  work,  visit  a  class  to  talk 

about  how  science  and  math  got  you  where  you 

are  today— or  take  the  plunge  and  learn  about 

becoming  a  teacher." 


That  new  generation  is  mostly  10th- 
graders  at  the  Manhattan  Center  for  Science 
and  Mathematics.  They  travel  from  all  over 
the  five  boroughs,  sometimes  riding  subways 
and  buses  for  an  hour  and  a  half  to  get  to 
the  building  at  1 16th  Street  and  the  FDR 
Drive,  overlooking  the  Harlem  River.  Many 
are  immigrants  from  Mexico,  Ecuador, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  Guyana.  All  are 
expected  to  take  a  certain  sequence  of  courses, 
to  attend  class,  to  graduate  on  time,  to  go  to 
college.  According  to  Dodd,  over  80  percent 
do,  in  fact,  enroll  at  a  two-  or  four-year 
college  or  pursue  a  military  career. 

Before  they  reach  Dodd's  sophomore 
chemistry  classes,  her  students  have  passed 
one  year  of  biology,  but,  she  says,  "My  basic 
M.O.  is:  If  I  haven't  taught  it  to  them,  they 
don't  know  it."  Because  chemistry  is  con- 
ducted only  in  English,  and  some  kids  have  come  out  of  a 
bilingual  biology  program,  Dodd  has  to  address  language  as 
well  as  science  in  her  classes.  If  she  tutors  them  a  handful  at 
a  time,  "the  students  get  more  attention,  and  I  get  to  feel  I'm 
making  more  of  a  difference,"  she  says.  Often  she  will  pair  a 
weaker  student  with  a  stronger  one  who  shares  the  language 
background,  and  both  will  benefit  from  the  encounter. 

Dodd  is  upbeat.  In  a  conversation  shortly  before  summer 
vacation,  she  says,  "I  have  been  writing  recommendations  for 
students  to  pursue  summer  programs  in  math  and  science.  I 
would  encourage  many  of  them  to  pursue  [careers  in]  math, 
science,  and  engineering.  They  have  the  skills." 

She  elaborates  on  her  instructional  strategies:  "You  have 
to  make  science  fun,  make  scientists  seem  like  normal  people 
with  real  lives — people  you  might  want  to  be." 


"I  try  to  tie  lessons  to  the  real  world — this  is  why  people 
put  salt  on  an  icy  road  or  why  they  put  salt  in  water  for 
pasta."  She  recognizes  that  her  students'  home  lives  might 
be  different  from  the  one  she  knew  and  attempts  whenever 
possible  to  find  connections  to  their  experiences. 

Obstacles  present  themselves  all  too  often — from  a 
cirywide  transit  strike  to  the  shooting  death  of  one  student 
a  few  blocks  from  school.  He  had  been  having  a  hard  time 
academically,  but  had  been  present  in  Dodd's  double-period 
class  that  afternoon.  "I  said,  'Hey,  glad  you're  here,'"  she 
recalls.  "I  was  not  prepared  for  that.  I  wasn't  done  with  him." 

The  next  day  she  told  her  classes,  "When  you  leave  this 
building,  you  are  a  pan  of  me.  You  may  not  think  of  me  as  a 
mother,  but  you  are  my  children.  I  want  to  see  you  every  day." 

The  rewards  far  outnumber  the  hardships  for  Dodd. 
This  fall,  one  of  her  top  students  from  her  first  year  teaching 
will  be  going  to  WPI.  But  in  order  for  such  successes 
to  be  more  common,  she  says,  there  must  be  changes  in  the 
system.  "I  am  very  focused  on  students  of  color,"  she  says. 
"The  educational  system  has  been  serving  white  students 
well.  I'd  like  to  see  more  emphasis  on  reaching  out  to 
non-majority  populations,  students  of  color,  non-native 
English  speakers." 

She  makes  a  plea  to  her  fellow  alumni:  "I  would  encour- 
age WPI  grads  from  all  walks  of  life  to  bridge  the  gap 
between  science  and  society:  donate  materials  to  a  school, 
tutor  students,  invite  students  to  visit  you  at  work,  visit  a 
class  to  talk  about  how  science  and  math  got  you  where 
you  are  today — or  take  the  plunge  and  learn  about  becom- 
ing a  teacher." 

For  Dodd,  the  decision  to  teach  has  been  right  all  along: 
"I  feel  like  I'm  passing  on  what  people  have  given  to  me: 
Science  is  fun.  Science  is  the  key  to  understanding  the  world 
around  vou."    D 


Transformations    I    Fall  2  006     3  3 


AlumniConnections 


This  is  a  continuation  of  our  dialogue  with  Morgan  Rees  '61,  the  62nd 
President  of  the  Alumni  Association.  We  last  spoke  with  Morgan  earlier 
this  year  when  he  provided  his  goals  for  the  year. 


In  the  spring  issue  of  Transformations,  you 
detailed  the  key  objectives  for  the  Alumni 
Association:  volunteerism,  career  services,  and 
communications.  Can  you  provide  us  with  an 
update  on  these  various  initiatives? 
Absolutely!  The  Association  Cabinet  has  made  progress  in  all 
these  areas.  Joe  Ferrantino  '67  heads  the  regional  club  effort. 
We  now  have  two  clubs  in  operation  (Hartford/Springfield 
and  New  York  City)  and  more  starting  this  year  (Southern 
New  Hampshire,  Boston,  and  Worcester).  So  far  we've  held 
pub  nights,  sporting  events,  and  a  Sunday  brunch.  But  there 
are  a  number  of  other  ways  to  become  involved.  For  example, 
you  can  participate  in  class  activities  and  GOLD  (Graduates 
of  the  Last  Decade)  events,  or  become  an  Alumni  Ambassador, 
representing  WPI  at  a  high  school  or  college  fair.  If  you  are 
interested  in  volunteering,  please  contact  the  Office  of 
Alumni  Relations. 

What  progress  has  been  made  in  the  area  of 
communications? 

We  completed  a  communications  survey  in  the  spring.  The 
response  was  great — we  heard  from  280  alumni  (a  fourfold 
increase  over  our  last  survey,  conducted  in  2004).  The  results 
are  now  being  compiled  and  analyzed.  We'll  report  the 
results  and  actions  we  are  taking  in  The  Bridge  and  in 
Transformations.  One  of  the  surprising  facts  was  that  some 
alumni  were  not  aware  of  The  Bridge,  the  Association's 
monthly  e-newsletter.  This  publication  serves  to  keep  alumni 
informed  between  issues  of  Transformations.  It's  easy  to  sign 
up  and  be  informed — go  to  wpi.edu/+bridge.  Our  thanks  go 
to  many,  but  especially  to  Joyce  Kline  '87  for  her  efforts  in 
spearheading  the  survey. 


What  can  you  report  in  the  career  services  area? 

We  are  expanding  the  scope  of  the  program  to  encompass  a 
broader  range  of  services  and  assistance  to  alumni  throughout 
their  careers,  including  networking,  mentoring,  and  job  listings 
in  The  Bridge.  This  fall,  we'll  be  adding  a  staff  person  who 
will  focus  on  this  area,  as  well  as  on  enhancing  volunteer 
activities.  This  will  be  a  great  addition  to  the  Office  of 
Alumni  Relations.  I'll  report  more  on  the  specifics  in  The 
Bridge  and  in  the  next  issue  of  Transformations.  Our  thanks 
go  to  Bill  Krein  '62  for  all  his  good  work  in  putting  this 
program  together. 

Can  you  provide  your  perspectives  on  Reunion? 

This  was  my  first  Reunion  as  president.  In  my  judgment,  it 
was  a  smashing  success,  thanks  in  large  part  to  the  volunteers 
from  the  Office  of  Alumni  Relations  and  other  WPI  staff,  and 
the  Alumni  Association.  Reunion  was  a  wonderful  opportu- 
nity to  connect  with  fellow  alumni.  The  weekend  was  filled 
with  exciting  activities,  as  well  as  opportunities  to  renew  old 
friendships,  make  new  friends,  and  share  memories.  I  really 
enjoyed  the  variety  of  offerings  that  Alumni  College  provided. 
The  topics  are  fascinating.  I  hope  more  alumni  will  attend 
these  events  next  year.  Awards  were  presented  to  some  very 
deserving  people  for  career  achievement  and  service  to  WPI. 
Professor  emeritus  Bill  Grogan  '46  and  university  vice  presi- 
dent Steve  Hebert  '66  were  recognized  for  their  lifetime  of 
service  to  WPI. 

What's  being  planned  for  Homecoming? 

The  Class  Boards  of  Directors  will  meet,  as  they  do  tradition- 
ally at  that  time,  to  discuss  their  class  activities.  Homecoming 
is  a  wonderful  time  to  reconnect  with  former  classmates,  learn 
more  about  what  WPI  is  doing  from  an  academic  standpoint, 
and  enjoy  a  great  football  game.  We're  playing  Union  this  year. 


Trans  formations    I   Fall  2006 


Reunion  Weekend  2006 

Even  the  rain  couldn't  dampen  the  mood  during  Reunion  Weekend  2006,  held  June  9-11.  Alumni  from 
the  classes  of  '41,  46,  '51,  '56,  '61,  '66,  '71,  '76,  '81,  and  '86  celebrated  their  respective  reunions  with 
receptions  and  banquets,  and  by  reuniting  with  old  friends.  Activities  and  events  during  the  weekend 
included  the  annual  Reunion  Parade,  campus  tours,  and  Alumni  College  sessions  led  by  WPI  faculty 
and  administrators.  President  Dennis  Berkey  accepted  generous  class  gifts,  and  select  alumni  were 
celebrated  with  distinguished  awards.  View  more  photos  at  alumni.wpi.edu. 


Transformations    I   Fall  2006     35 


Class  Notes 


Staying  Connected  with  Old  Friends 

Material  for  Class  Notes  comes  from  newspaper  and  magazine  clippings,  press  releases, 
and  information  supplied  by  alumni.  Due  to  production  schedules,  some  notes  may  be  out 
of  date  at  publication,  but  may  be  updated  in  future  issues.  Please  allow  up  to  6  months  for 
your  news  to  appear  in  print.  Submit  your  Class  Note  at  www.wpi.edu/+Transformations 
or  alumni-editor@wpi.edu.  You  may  fax  it  to  508-831-5820,  or  mail  it  to  Alumni  Editor, 
Transformations,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 


1930: 


■% 


f 


Jack  Brand  '36  contributed  some  reflec- 
tions on  life  at  Tech  in  the  30s,  when  jackets 
and  ties  were  "de  rigueur"  in  the  classroom, 
tuition  was  a  mere  $330,  and  an  entry-level 
engineer  was  grateful  for  a  job  offer  of 
$120  a  month  upon  graduation.  Jack  remi- 
nisced about  the  colorful  professors  such  as 
"Coombsie,"  "Black  Mac"  McCullough,  and 
Charles  Allen,  who  gave  explosive  laboratory 
demonstrations  on  gasoline  safety.  He  con- 
cludes, "Worcester  Tech  had  been  the  right 
school  for  me.  It  prepared  me  well  for  a  ful- 
filling 42-year  career  at  Du  Pont.  In  the 
1930s,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  was  a 
leading  small  engineering  college;  70  years 
later,  WPI   is  a  world-class  university." 


1    Peter  Koliss  '38  of 

Nashua,  N.H.,  is  retired 
after  43  years  with  Bell 
Laboratories.  He  has 
devoted  himself  to  rais- 
ing funds  to  establish 
Catholic  churches  in 


Ghana.  A  longtime  member  of  the  Knights 
of  Columbus,  he  brought  the  state  councils 
on  board  in  the  quest  to  raise  $100,000 
toward  five  churches  in  five  years.  The 
first  church,  St.  Francis,  in  the  village  of 
Nyinampong,  will  be  dedicated  to  the  mem- 
ory of  his  wife,  Evelyn,  who  died  in  2004. 


Do  you  have  WPI  memories  to  share? 

E-mail  them  to  the  Student  Alumni  Society  at 
wheniwas@wpi.edu,  or  send  them  to  SAS, 
WPI,  1 00  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA 
01609-2280. 


Noting  the  lack  of  Class  Notes  from  "older" 
classes  in  the  last  issue  of  Transformations, 
Ed  Campbell  '43  urges  all  classmates  to 
provide  input.  "Let's  do  our  part  by  posting 
WPI  on  interesting  or  informative  items 
about  ourselves  and  others,"  he  writes.  "I'll 
start.  We  have  recently  moved  from  our 
cherished  home  in  New  London,  N.H.,  to 
a  great  retirement  (I  really  should  say  "older 
age")  lodging  in  Falmouth,  Maine.  It's  taken 
a  little  effort  to  adjust  our  lifestyle,  but  I 
think  I'll  make  it." 


No  news  isn't  good  news 

...when  it  comes  to  our  alumni 

Transformations  would  like  to  expand  Class 
Notes  coverage  of  the  earlier  classes,  but 
we  can't  do  it  without  you  I  Send  a  note  and 
a  photo,  and  let  your  classmates  know 
what's  cooking  in  your  part  of  the  world. 


Sam  Kaplan   39  and  wp, 

share  memor.es  of  a  mucn 
campus,  at  Reomon  2006 


1950s 


Bill  Taylor  '55  has  a  new  work,  Lethal 
American  Confusion:  How  Bush  and  the 
Pacifists  Failed  in  the  War  on  Terrorism, 
which  is  available  in  electronic  format  at 
AmericanConfusion.com.  A  print  version  is 


■TT^^^^^^^^^ 


Submit  an  Item  for  Class  Notes 


ight  in  cdu  c  l*u  n»m  iut  in  lc,  c  limy  an 

Pbclurtll'  DM 

ctcttmott  liKiwi  tiuv  I 

■  Institute  Road.  V 

Please  KknulV  nch  pcruw  tn  the  phi'io  Make  a  null-  on  ihc 
oagnul  phoio  rcfumi-d  ttta  publication 

lloafalr  Dun    I 


■■ 

...,.!.«  »„... 

25 

1   ■         Mb 

in  the  works.  Taylor  also  invites  readers  to 
visit  the  Web  site  and  take  part  in  a  con- 
sciousness-raising survey  on  the  similarities 
between  pacifists  and  advocates.  After  the 
survey  closes  on  January  1 ,  2007,  respon- 
dents will  discuss  the  findings  and  explore 
further  steps. 

Paul  Beswick  '57s  PRD2  pressure  regula- 
tor won  Product  Design  &  Development 
magazine's  Engineering  Silver  Award  for 
the  best  new  product  of  2005.  It  was  also  a 
runner-up  in  Design  News  magazine's  2006 
Golden  Mousetrap  Awards  in  the  Fluid 
Power  category.  The  compact,  lightweight 
design  offers  high  performance  for  applica- 
tions where  size  and  weight  are  critical. 
Beswick  founded  the  company  in  Massa- 
chusetts in  1964,  relocated  to  Greenland, 
N.H.,  in  1996,  and  opened  a  Singapore 
branch  in  2000. 

Dick  Wright '57 

was  inducted  into  the 
Chelmsford  (Mass.)  High 
School  Hall  of  Fame  this 
year.  He  and  his  wife, 
Katherine,  recently  cele- 
brated their  25th  anni- 
versary. They  have  three  children  and  six 
grandchildren.  Dick's  first  wife,  Barbara, 
passed  away  in  1979.  He  is  retired  from  a 
career  with  Raytheon,  where  he  designed 
missile  guidance  systems. 

Bill  Rabinovitch  '58  reported  on  the  open- 
ing of  Apple  Computer's  "Glass  Cube" 
uptown  store  in  NYC,  which  brought  him 
and  his  video  camera  up  close  to  Steve  Jobs 
and  Ron  Johnson.  Bill  writes,  "The  event 
didn't  seem  primarily  about  Geekdom,  as 
tens  of  thousands,  families  and  all,  waited 


36     Transformations    I    Tall  2006 


Metes 


for  hours,  surrounding  the  area  for  blocks. 
I  felt  there  were  going  to  be  massive  cultural 
implications  in  all  of  this,  and  I  think  that 
I  was  right!" 


1960s 


Richard 
Brewster  '60, 

and  his  wife, 
Susan  (right), 
celebrated  the 
opening  of  a 
new  well  in 
the  village 
of  Gordee, 
Liberia,  con- 
structed by  the 
Mercy  Ships 
program  and  funded  through  donations 
raised  by  his  Rotary  Club.  After  the  ribbon- 
cutting  ceremony,  and  the  presentation  of  a 
pineapple  as  a  thank  you  gift,  the  feasting 
and  dancing  began.  Brewster,  a  longtime 
Mercy  Ships  volunteer,  writes  that  with 
access  to  basic  sanitation  and  clean  water, 
an  estimated  80  percent  of  human  illness 
could  be  eliminated. 

"Would  you  believe?"  writes  Thomas 
Heefener  '61.  "Both  Christopher  Coote 

'97  and  I  serve  on  the  Borough  Council  of 
Mercersburg  (pop.  1,500),  located  in  south 
central  Pennsylvania." 

In  the  wake  of  public  utilities  deregulation, 
Richard  Vogel  '61  has  been  working  on 
proprietary  technology  to  provide  alterna- 
tives to  conventional  power  generation. 
In  the  1980s  he  designed  and  built  a  10- 
kilowatt  steam  turbine  micro  power  plant. 
In  1996  he  received  a  patent  for  a  new  sys- 
tem that  uses  a  heat  flow  process  based  on 
the  design  of  the  main  engine  of  the  Space 
Shuttle,  in  consultation  with  NASA. 
"Things  have  certainly  been  'transformed' 
since  my  freshman  year  at  WPI,  when 
on  Oct.  4,  1957,  Russia's  Sputnik  was 
announced  on  the  bulletin  board,"  he 
writes.  "Perhaps  BSEE  could  mean 
Bachelor  of  Science-Ecological  Enhance- 
ment,' or  some  similar  wordsmith  creation. 
It  feels  a  bit  like  graduating  once  again." 

Michael  Moses  '62  received  the  2006 
Investment  Management  Council  Journal- 
ism Award,  along  with  his  co-author  on  an 
article  in  the  Journal  of  Investment  Consulting. 
The  article,  "Beautiful  Asset:  Art  as  Invest- 
ment," was  published  in  Vol.  7,  No.  2,  of 
the  journal.  Moses  is  a  tenured  associate 
professor  of  management  at  New  York 


th 


n  me 

Public  Eye 


Flashback,  the  latest  novel  by  Gary  Goshgarian  '64 
(pen  name  Gary  Braver)  won  an  Honors  Award  from 
the  Massachusetts  Center  far  the  Book 

and  was  the  Number  1  medical  thriller  in  the 
Club.  The  Beste 

called  Flashback  "a  thoughtful  book  with  an  intriguing  premise  and  a  sprawling  plot,  pulled 
together  with  a  twist  at  the  end"  ...  Richard  Salwirz  '67  (aka  "Magic  Dick")  was  counted 
"among  the  world's  most  successful  blues  harmonica  players"  by  recordnet.cc        The 
former  J.  Geils  Band  member  performed  in  Modesto,  Calif.,  at  Mark  Hummel's  Blues 
Harmonica  Blowout  in  July  ...  Dave  Emery  '70  placed  third  in  the  Republican  primary  for 

In  a  letter  to  supporters,  he  wrote,  "I'm  disappointed  that  I  won't 
be  the  one  taking  our  ideas  for  improving  state  government  before  the  voters  in  November. 
I've  also  been  in  politics  long  enough  to  appreciate  the  will  of  the  voters  [...]  and  I  respect 
their  choice.  I  will  work  for  [Republican  nominee]  Chandler  Woodcock  and  I  ask  you  to  do 
so,  as  well."  ...  Dean  Kamen  '73  was  a  commencement  speaker  at         and  this  spring... 

Mark  Ketchum  '75  was  interviewed  for  a  PBS  America  program  on  San 

Francisco's  Golden  Gate  Bridge.  His  firm,  OPAC  Consulting  Engineers,  led  the  seismic 
evaluations  and  retrofit  strategy  development  for  both  the  Golden  Gate  and  the  Bay  Bridge 
suspension  spans  ...  With  gas  prices  soaring  this  spring,  Jeff  Leonard  '84  was  widely  quoted 
in  his  capacity  as  chief  spokesperson  for  the  National  Association  of  Convenience  Stores. 
Hundreds  of  print,  broadcast,  and  online  outlets,  including  CNN  and  Ft  carried 

his  comments  on  pricing  formulas  and  consumer  response  ...  Two  alums,  Chirag  Patel  '99, 
and  Gina  Colangelo  '03,  were  featured  in  a  cover  story  on  analog  devices  in  the  June  issue 
of  Test  &  Measurement  World  ...  the  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette  covered 
the  graduation  of  Daniel  Gilbreath  '06  in  May,  noting  that  all  of  his  siblings  were  WPI 
graduates— Larissa  '00,  twins  Emily  and  Amelia  '01,  and  Tanya  '04  (MS  '05). 


University's  Stern  School  of  Business.  His 
research  interests  include  art  as  an  asset  class 
and  the  pricing  of  infrequently  traded  assets. 

Chester  "Gerry"  Sergey  '65  lives  in 
Wolcott,  Conn.  His  days  as  a  drummer  for 
a  popular  local  high  school  band  called  The 
Tempests  were  recalled  in  the  "Bristol  Bits" 
column  of  the  local  newspaper. 

Phillip  Clark  '67's  firm,  Clark  Patterson 
Associates,  made  the  Rochester  (N.Y.)  Top 
100  list.  He  founded  the  company  as  Clark 
Engineers  is  1975,  and  it  now  has  200 
employees  and  eight  office  locations  in  four 
states,  with  plans  to  add  two  more  offices  in 
the  next  two  years. 

Thomas  Marmen  '68  was  appointed  presi- 
dent and  CEO  of  TimeLab  Corp.,  an 
Andover,  Mass. -based  firm  that  develops 
and  supplies  timing  circuits. 


1970s 


Ralph  Sbrogna  '70  was  named  a  director  at 
Fletcher,  Tilton  &  Whipple  PC  of  Boston. 
He  is  a  graduate  of  Suffolk  Law  School. 

Maryann  (Bagdis)  Goebel  '73  was  named 
CIO  of  DHL  Express  for  the  Americas, 
Asia-Pacific  region,  and  emerging  markets/ 
Latin  America.  She  will  oversee  IT  initia- 
tives in  those  areas  and  chair  the  company's 
IT  board. 

James  Edwards  '74  married  Kathryn  Nolt, 
April  2,  2006.  They  live  in  Lancaster,  Pa. 

^BO*'      1    Michael  Hartnett  '74 
^k        ^k         (MSEE)  was  honored  as 
^^^^^^H        a  distinguished  alumnus 
of  the  University  of  New 
|L        Haven,  where  he  earned 
^^^  ^jr^Ek    ms  bachelor's  and  doc- 
■■■TlJS^^b^I    toral  degrees.  He  is  chair- 
man, president,  and  CEO  of  RBC  Bearings, 
which  operates  16  plants  in  three  countries 
and  employs  more  than  1 ,700  people. 


Ron  Dlugosz  '70  was  elected  selectman  in 
Great  Barrington,  Mass. 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006    3  7 


Bookshelf 


FAILED 
GRADE 


Tin    Coiriit*ii/ii 
*no  Dbcum  m  Rm 


Recent  and  new  publications  by  WPI  alumni,  faculty,  staff 

Failed  Grade:  The  Corporatization  and  Decline  of  Higher 
Education  in  America 

by  Albert  H.  Soloway  '48   American  University  &  Colleges  Press 

Soloway,  a  former  faculty  member  and  dean  at  Northeastern 
University  and  The  Ohio  State  University,  draws  on  his  33  years 
in  academia,  as  well  as  the  insights  of  his  colleagues,  to  explore 
problems  facing  today's  colleges  and  universities.  With  institutions 
forced  to  focus  on  the  bottom  line,  and  administrative  priorities 
^^K  trained  on  fund-raising  and  generating  revenue,  what  happens  to  a 

college's  primary  mission— the  education  of  the  next  generation  and 
^|  P^y  the  quest  for  new  knowledge?  Soloway  looks  at  the  effects  of  grade 

^^^^^^^*^^^^    inflation  and  skyrocketing  tuition,  as  well  as  the  marginalization  of 
BBJffiHiHiiiUlilB    faculty  in  decision  making  and  the  selection  of  college  presidents  for 
their  fund-raising  ability  rather  than  their  educational  vision.  "This  book  is  written  for  all 
who  care  deeply  about  higher  education,"  he  writes  in  the  preface.  "I  hope  [it]  will  raise 
questions  for  those  creating  policy  for  higher  education  as  well  as  provide  suggested 
solutions  for  alleviating  some  existing  problems." 

The  First  Betrayal 

by  Patricia  Bray  '84    Bantam  Spectra 

UHflj    The  First  Betrayal  is  the  first  installment  of  Bray's  new  series,  "The 
Chronicles  of  Josan."  The  protagonist,  an  orphan,  exile,  and  priest, 
lives  a  humble  life  as  a  lighthouse  keeper— until  a  chance  encounter 
with  Lady  Ysobel  Flordelis  of  Alcina  sets  off  a  deadly  chain  of  events. 
Josan  is  forced  to  leave  his  island  exile  and  embark  on  a  dangerous 
journey  to  unlock  the  secrets  of  his  past.  Bray,  who  received  the 
2003  Compton  Crook  award  for  Devlin's  Luck,  the  first  book  in  her 
previous  "Sword  of  Change"  series,  lives  in  upstate  New  York, 
where  balances  her  writing  with  a  full-time  career  as  an  IT  project 
manager.  She  is  now  hard  at  work  at  on  the  second  book  in  the 

"Josan"  series,  called  The  Sea  Change.  For  excerpts  and  a  book  signing  schedule,  see 

her  Web  site,  www.patriciabray.com. 

Applied  Control  Theory  for  Embedded  Systems 

by  Tim  Wescott  '88  ('90  MS)    Elsevier 

Wescott  addresses  the  needs  of  embedded  systems  engineers  and 
programmers  who  are  called  on  to  implement  control  systems  as  part 
of  a  product  design,  yet  do  not  have  formal  training  or  experience  in 
control  system  theory.  His  practical  guide  offers  real-world  examples 
and  practical  information  that  can  be  used  to  design  working 
systems.  Applied  Control  Theory  offers  sufficient  mathematical 
background  without  requiring  a  thorough  mastery  of  the  complicated 
theoretical  considerations  that  operate  behind  the  scenes.  Chapters 
include  "Z  Transforms,"  "Performance,"  "Block  Diagrams,"  "Analysis 
and  Design,"  "Sampling,"  "State-Space  Control,"  and  "Software  Implications."  Wescott, 
who  owns  and  operates  Wescott  Design  Services,  has  many  years  of  experience  in  the 
application  of  control  system  theory  to  embedded  designs  and  consults  on  embedded 
control  and  signal  processing  issues. 


I   Norton  Bonaparte  '75 

^Bl    has  been  appointed  the 
I    first  city  manager  of 
■m         I   Topeka,  Kan.  Under 
A     k    — ^      I    the  city's  new  form  of 
J^^^^^^^  I    governance,  Bonaparte 

A_il     I   will  serve  as  CEO, 
reporting  to  the  mayor  and  city  council  for 
day-to-day  operations  of  1 ,400  employees 
and  a  Sl74-million  budget.  He  previously 
served  as  a  city  administrator  in  New  Jersey 
and  Maryland. 

John  Holmes  '75  and  his  wife,  Lynn,  are 
both  coaches  for  the  Rams  at  Southwick- 
Tolland  Regional  High  School  in  southwest- 
ern Massachusetts.  He  is  the  school's  varsity 
baseball  coach,  and  she  coaches  the  varsity 
softbaJl  team.  The  couple  has  been  coaching 
recreational  teams  for  decades,  while  their 
three  children  were  growing  up,  and  now 
they  even  help  out  their  3-year-old  grandson. 

Kevin  Kelly  '75  finally  earned  his  WPI 
degree  in  May,  by  doing  his  MQP — all  that 
stood  between  him  and  the  diploma — on 
radar  software  and  systems  development.  He 
did  not  attend  commencement  exercises, 
but  his  story  was  picked  up  by  local  newspa- 
pers in  the  Stamford,  Conn.,  area.  Kevin  is 
now  a  senior  software  engineer  with 
Northrop  Grumman  Norden  Systems  in 
Norwalk. 

Greg  Cipriano  '76  is  vice  president,  mar- 
keting and  military  development,  at 
Protonex  Technology  Corp.,  based  in 
Southborough,  Mass. 

Thomas  McNeice  '76 

was  promoted  to  senior 
vice  president  at  CDM 
in  Cambridge,  Mass., 
where  he  leads  the 
design-build  and  general 
contracting  business 

operations  for  the  northeastern  United 

States. 

Steve  Rourke  '76  was  appointed  vice  presi- 
dent of  system  planning  at  ISO  New 
England,  based  in  Holyoke,  Mass. 

Neal  Wright  76  was 

promoted  to  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  newly  formed 
Base  Realignment  and 
Closure  Program 
Management  Office  at 
Michael  Baker  Jr.  Inc.,  in 
Virginia  Beach,  Va.  He  retired  from  the 
U.S.  Army  as  lieutenant  colonel  in  1998, 
and  has  worked  for  Baker  since  2000. 


3  8     Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


The  Society  of  Fire 
Protection  Engineers 
elected  Jeff  Harrington 

'77  a  fellow  of  the  society. 
A  dedicated  member 
since  1976,  when  he 
helped  found  the  student 
SFPE  chapter  at  WPI,  Jeff  later  joined  the 
Southeastern  Chapter  and  served  in  every 
officer  position,  culminating  in  two  years  as 
president.  He  is  founder  of  Harrington 
Group  in  Duluth,  Ga. 

Eric  Hertz  '77  was  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  NTELOS  Holdings  Corp.  in 
Waynsboro,  Va.  He  was  previously  COO  of 
Western  Wireless  Corp. 

David  Lesneski  '77  joined  R.  W.  Beck  Inc. 
in  Boston  as  a  senior  consultant  in  the  firm's 
Energy  Assets  Consulting  Practice.  He  has 
published  several  technical  papers  on  boiler 
systems  and  holds  a  patent  for  steam  genera- 
tor design. 

Andreas  von  Huene  '78  was  part  of  a  team 
of  artists  that  sculpted  a  full-scale  "evoca- 
tion" of  the  six-masted  schooner  Wyoming, 
which  was  unveiled  in  June  at  the  Maine 
Maritime  Museum  in  Bath.  The  Wyoming, 
once  billed  as  the  largest  sailing  vessel  in  the 
world,  lives  on  the  largest  outdoor  sculpture 
in  the  state  of  Maine. 

Andrew  J.  Davidson  '79 

was  promoted  to  vice 
president/chief  financial 
officer  of  Richard  White 
Sons  Inc.  He  joined  the 
Auburndale,  Mass.,  con- 
struction management 
firm  in  1997  as  controller. 

Mary  Dunn  '79  is  engineering  director  at 
Seagate  Technology  in  Longmont,  Colo., 
where  she  has  worked  for  12  years.  She 
recently  spoke  at  a  career  forum  organized 
by  the  Women's  Vision  Foundation  of 
Colorado. 


1981 


1980 


Martin  Rowe,  senior  technical  editor  of 
Test  &  Measurement  World,  recorded  a  song 
for  engineers  who  struggle  with  slow  equip- 
ment, out-of-calibration  gear,  and  software 
crashes.  Hear  "The 
Measurement  Blues" 
online,  and  connect 
with  other  lab-based 
musicians  at 
tmworld.com/blues. 


The  fourth  annual  Craig  Abraham 

Memorial  Golf  Tournament  was  held  May 
20,  2006.  It  was  organ  izxd  by  classmate 
George  Awiszus.  Proceeds  go  to  a  college 
fund  for  Craig's  three  children  and  to  a 
scholarship  in  his  honor,  which  has  been 
presented  annually  to  an  Ashland  (Mass.) 
High  School  senior  by  Craig's  widow, 
Louise.  Information  and  photos  of  the  event 
are  posted  at  www.craigabraham.com. 

Dennis  Moulton  was  promoted  to  vice 
president  at  Ames  MSC,  Architects  & 
Engineers,  in  Portsmouth,  N.H.  He  was 
previously  senior  engineer. 


1982 


Frank  Hines  launched  Hines  &  Lee  Inc. 
(www.hinesandlee.com),  a  consultancy  that 
provides  services  in  the  areas  of  market 
research,  strategy,  and  innovation.  He  start- 
ed the  business  to  gain  greater  independ- 
ence, after  spending  the  past  1 0  years  work- 
ing for  a  management  consulting  boutique 
in  the  new  product  development  arena.  His 
wife  and  business  partner,  Jeanne  Lee  Hines, 
will  act  as  managing  partner. 

Andy  Schell  holds  the  post  of  affluent  seg- 
ment marketing  executive  for  Bank  of 
America  Global  Wealth  &  Investment 
Management  in  Boston.  He  previously 
worked  for  Ameriprise  Financial  as  vice 
president  of  marketing  planning. 


1983 


V  M 


Joe  Morgan  serves  as  general  manager  of 
the  On  Demand  Solutions  Group  at 
Standard  Register  in  Dayton,  Ohio,  where 
he  has  been  employed  since  2001. 

Peter  Woods 

represented 
WPI  at  the  inau- 
guration of  St. 
Martin  Univer- 
sity's new  presi- 
dent, Douglas 
Astolfi,  held 
March  27,  2006, 
in  Lacey,  Wash. 

Navy  Cmdr.  Marshall  Young  was  promoted 
to  staff  executive  officer  of  the  commander 
submarine  force  stationed  at  Norfolk,  Va. 
He  has  been  in  the  Navy  since  1983  and 
had  served  as  deputy  commander  of 
Recruiting  Region  South  since  2004. 


$ 


See  yOU   in  COUrt?  A  recent  legal 
proceeding  before  the  Vermont  Transportation 
Board  brought  together  Joe  Segale  '86  (expert 
witness  on  traffic  engineering  issues),  Stuart  Hurd 
'70  (representing  the  Town  of  Bennington  as  its 
manager),  and  Jon  Anderson  '75  (attorney  for  the 
developer).  Also  working  on  the  hearing  was  the 
Transportation  Board's  administrative  officer,  Glenn 
Gershaneck,  whose  son  is  a  member  of  the  WPI 
Class  of  2006. 

Send  us  a  picture  and  tell  us  where  you've  shown 
your  WPI  letters  lately. 


1  984 

Jean  (Salek)  Camp,  owner  of  Camp 
Consulting  LCC,  received  her  Hawaii  state 
contractor's  license  this  year.  She  now  oper- 
ates two  companies,  one  for  project  engi- 
neering, construction,  and  business  manage- 
ment; the  other  for  contracting  services.  She 
and  her  husband,  David,  continue  to  enjoy 
living  on  Kauai  and  participating  in  several 
youth-directed  organizations. 

John  McNamara  and  his  wife,  Tricia,  live  in 
West  Newbury,  Mass.,  where  they  are  co- 
coaches  for  the  Pentucket  Middle  School 
basketball  program. 

Brian  Witkowski  works  for  Essilor 
International  as  the  global  engineering  tool- 
ing manager.  "I  am  responsible  for  design 
for  our  optical  lens  injection  molds  and  also 
support  Essilor's  five  production  sites  in  the 
U.S.,  France,  Thailand,  and  China.  I  have 
been  with  the  company  for  nine  nears,  after 
some  time  in  the  Army  and  a  variety  of 
other  jobs.  This  year  will  mark  my  18th 
wedding  anniversary  to  my  wife,  Kim.  We 
live  in  northeast  Connecticut  with  our  chil- 
dren, Rebecca,  13,  and  Matthew,  11." 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006    39 


Representatives  from  Pratt  &  Whitney  (including 
a  large  number  of  alumni)  joined  with  WPI 
administrators  to  celebrate  the  company's  long- 
standing ties  to  WPI  and  to  present  a  $23,500 
donation.  The  campus  visit  was  organized  by 
Mike  Gonsor  '86  (not  pictured),  Ryan  Walsh  '99, 
and  Mary  Schubert  '05. 


I  VOJ 

Thomas  Arsenault  was  named  president  of 
the  newly  established  sensor  systems  busi- 
ness in  the  Electronics  &  Integrated 
Solutions  Operating  Group  at  BAE  Systems 
in  Nashua,  N.H. 

Chris  Cavigioli  writes,  "Carrie  and  I  had  a 
son,  Daniel.  He's  cute  and  has  recently 
learned  how  to  make  bubbles  with  his  saliva 
and  his  lips." 

Mair  Sitton  writes  from  Panama  Citv, 
Panama,  "I  joined  Mays  Free  Zone  Colon  to 
develop  a  huge  motorcycle  business  in  part- 
nership with  a  firm  from  China,  operating 
under  their  name  brand,  Max  Motor,  with 
tremendous  success  in  over  15  countries  in 
Central  and  South  America,  as  well  as  the 
Caribbean."  He  lives  with  his  wife,  Eileen, 
and  their  four  boys. 


1987 


Paul  Lubas  moved  to  Glastonbury,  Conn., 
to  begin  a  new  position  as  senior  marketing 
manager-Pharmaceutical  for  CUNO  Inc.,  a 
3M  company.  He  is  charged  with  creating 
programs  to  increase  the  sales  of  CUNO  fil- 
tration products  within  the  pharmaceutical 
market.  He  lives  with  his  wife,  Paula,  and 
son,  Christopher,  who  turned  two  in  March. 

Donald  Zereski  launched  Yokel  Inc.,  which 
operates  the  Yokel.com  shopping  search 
engine.  He  and  his  partner  designed  the  site 
to  help  shoppers  track  down  items  at  local 
stores. 


1988 

Brent  Goldstein  co-founded  Goldstein- 
Milano  LCC,  a  structural  engineering  con- 
sulting firm  in  Reading,  Mass.,  in  2005.  He 
was  formerly  a  principal  with  McNamara/ 
Salvia  Inc.  in  Boston.  The  new  firm  is  cur- 
rently active  in  the  U.S.  commercial  and 
institutional  building  markets.  His  past 
projects  include  Two  International  Place  and 
Providence  Place  Mall. 

Mark  Osborne  works  as  a  program  leader 
in  pharmacovigilance  informatics  at  Mil- 
lennium Pharmaceuticals.  He  writes,  "I 
enjoy  spending  time  with  my  family,  which 
includes  my  wife  of  16  years,  Carolyn,  and 
children:  Alex,  12,  Katelyn,  10,  and  Tyler,  5." 

Michael  Thurston  joined  the  Army  in 
2003  and  was  promoted  to  lieutenant 
colonel  in  2005.  Now  on  deployment  in 
Iraq,  he  and  his  wife  and  children  are  based 
at  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J. 


women's  elite  field  (F14),  but  had  a  late 
withdrawal  because  of  an  injury.  A  highlight 
of  Marathon  Day  was  riding  the  elite  bus, 
he  writes.  "There  I  was,  riding  to  the  start 
of  the  most  historic  and  prestigious 
marathon  in  the  world  in  my  throw-away 
sweats,  with  some  of  the  best  runners  in  the 
world  all  decked  out  in  high-end  gear  from 
their  sponsors,  with  a  state  police  escort 
blocking  traffic  for  us  the  whole  way.  It  felt 
like  I  was  living  someone  else's  life  for  the 
day.  I  was  happy  with  my  finishing  time  of 
3:53:28  which  bettered  my  pre-race  goal  of 
4  hours." 

Brian  Hamilton  was  promoted  to  project 
executive  at  Consigli  Construction  Co.  in 
Milford,  Mass.,  where  he  has  worked  since 
2001.  His  past  projects  include  Milford 
Regional  Medical  Center,  Metro  West 
Medical  Center,  and  Marlboro  Hospital. 


Alumni  and  members  of  the  WPI  community  are  invited  to  join  the  Men's  Glee  Club 

on  a  concert  tour  of  Greece,  March  2—10,  2007.  The  tour  features  sightseeing  in 

Athens  and  Delphi,  plus  a  five-day  cruise  of  the  islands.  Touring  with  the  chorus 

and  attending  performances  offers  a  unique  perspective  on  a  foreign  country, 

and  a  rewarding  connection  to  WPI  students. 

Registration  deadline  is  December  2.  Trip  details  and  registration  forms  are 

available  at  wpi.edu/Admin/Alumni/Services/travel.html.  For  more  information, 

contact  John  Delorey  at  508-831-5051  or  jfd@wpi.edu. 


The  WPI  Men's  Glee  Club  is  the  oldest  student-run  organization  on  campus, 
and  one  of  the  oldest  men's  glee  clubs  in  America  (133  years). 


1989 

Daniel  Bruso  and  his  wife,  Sandra,  are 
pleased  to  announce  the  birth  of  Audrey 
Ellen  and  Charles  Daniel  on  April  6,  2006. 
They  join  their  older  sister,  Claire  Elizabeth, 
at  the  family's  Somers,  Conn.,  home. 
Everyone  is  doing  well. 

Brendan  Connelly  ran  the  Boston 
Marathon  this  year.  His  wife,  Canadian 
Olympian  Tina  Connelly,  was  in  the 


1990 


Paul  Dombrowski 

received  the  Alfred  E. 
Peloquin  Award  from  the 
New  England  Water 
Environment  Association 
for  his  work  in  waste- 
water engineering.  He  is 
a  senior  project  manager  with  Tighe  &  Bond. 


40 


Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


Christopher  Hegarty  (MS  '92)  received  the 
2005  Hobart  Newell  Award  at  an  ECE 
department  ceremony  on  May  1,  2006.  He 
was  honored  for  his  work  in  GPS  systems 
for  civil  aviation,  which  are  currently  used 
by  the  FAA.  Hegarty  is  director  for  spec- 
trum management  within  The  MITRE 
Corp.'s  Center  for  Advanced  Aviation 
System  Development. 

Christina  (Coumou)  and  Mark  Macaulay 

'89  are  proud  to  announce  the  birth  of  their 
daughter,  Caroline  Rose,  on  Sept.  6,  2005. 
They  live  in  Northborough,  Mass.,  with 
their  two  sons,  Patrick,  7,  and  Bennett,  4. 


1991 


Mike  Messer  recently  graduated  from  the 
Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology  with  a 
master's  degree  in  operations  analysis.  He 
was  extended  invitations  to  join  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Omega  Rho,  the  honor  society  of  the 
Institute  of  Operations  Research  and 
Management  Sciences.  Mike  will  spend  the 
next  year  in  southwest  Asia,  while  his  wife 
and  three  children  return  home  to  Wichita 
Falls,  Texas,  where  he  will  join  them  upon 
return. 

Yael  Schwartz  (PhD)  left  Sepracor  Inc.  to 
co-found  Orcas  Therapeutics  Inc.,  where 
she  is  now  president  and  CEO.  "The  Orca 
is  an  opportunistic  feeder,"  she  says  of  the 
company's  plan  to  optimize  and  improve  the 
effectiveness  and  safety  of  drugs  currently 
on  the  market.  She  expects  Orcas  to  double 
in  size  in  the  next  six  months,  as  operations 
move  out  of  her  Holden,  Mass.,  home  and 
into  office  space  in  Westborough. 

Rick  Willett  is  president  and  COO  of 
NewPage  Corp.  in  Dayton,  Ohio. 


1992 


Concetta  DePaolo  was  promoted  to  associ- 
ate professor  and  awarded  tenure  by  the 
College  of  Business  of  Indiana  State 
University.  She  and  her  husband,  David 
Rader,  live  in  Terre  Haute,  with  their 
daughter,  Megan. 


1993 


After  completing  his  PhD,  Matt  Boutell 
enjoyed  his  return  to  teaching  as  an  assistant 
professor  of  computer  science  and  software 
engineering  at  Rose-Hulman  Institute  of 
Technology.  Matt,  his  wife,  Leah,  and  their 
tour  children  live  in  Terre  Haute,  lnd. 


Fall  Back  to  WPI — 

Homecoming:  October  6-7,  2006 

—  wpi.edu/+alumni 


Peter  Cavallo  recently 
completed  his  PhD  in 
mechanical  engineering 
at  Drexel  University.  His 
work  in  adaptive  refine- 
ment methods  for  com- 
putational fluid  dynamics 
was  presented  at  the  past  three  Aerospace 
Sciences  meetings,  arid  has  appeared  in 
A IAA  Journal  and  the  Journal  of  Aerospace 
Computing,  Information,  and  Communication. 
He  continues  as  senior  scientist  for  Combus- 
tion Research  and  Flow  Technology  (CRAFT) 
of  Pipersville,  Pa.,  a  small  DoD/NASA  con- 
tractor. 

Tracy  Coifman  and  his  wife,  Agnes  Rios, 
are  happy  to  announce  the  birth  of  their 
daughter,  Andrea  Paola,  on  May  1,  2006. 
Her  twin  brothers,  Diego  and  Myles — now 
big  brothers — are  approaching  21  :  years. 
"We  recently  sold  our  house,  bought  a  new 
home  for  our  growing  family,  and  moved, 
all  in  the  same  week  that  our  daughter  was 
born,"  Tracy  writes. 

Al  Grasso  was  officially  appointed  president 
and  CEO  ofThe  MITRE  Corp.,  following 
the  retirement  of  the  previous  president.  His 
promotion  was  approved  by  the  board  last 
September. 

JeffRembold  and  his  wife,  Cristine, 
announce  the  birth  of  their  fifth  child, 
Margaret  Anne,  on  March  12,  2006.  Jeff 
still  lives  in  Webster.  N.Y.,  where  he  works 
as  a  senior  applications  engineer  tor  PTC. 
You  can  read  his  (occasional)  technical  blogs 
at  ptc.com  com  muni  ty/ptointralinkS/start. 


1994 


Michelle  (Shear)  and  Chris  Pacitto  '98 

announce  the  birth  of  their  daughter,  Akela 
Sydney,  on  Feb.  25,  2006. 

Man  Pope  moved  to  Seattle  with  his 
employer.  Grove  Networks,  when  the  corn- 
pan)  was  acquired  by  Microsoft.  He  is  now 
group  manager  for  Grove  products  at 
Microsoft.  Matt  and  his  wife,  Heather,  have 
two  children. 


1995 


Lisa  (Caponi)  de  Mars  and  her  husband, 
Robert,  announce  the  birth  of  their  second 
son,  Ryan  John,  on  May  6,  2006. 


1996 


Suzan  Bullock  married 

Alan  Michaud,  Nov.  5, 
2005.  She  works  tor 
R.W'.  Gillespie  and 
Associates  as  administra- 
tive assistant  of  finance. 
Following  a  wedding  trip 
to  Ossipee,  N.H.,  they  live  in  Buxton,  Maine. 

Sarah  Kazmi  and  her  husband,  Suheil 
Laher,  have  one  child,  Fatimah,  born  Dec. 
9,  2004. 

Sue  (MacPherson)  Kristoffwas  a  guest 
speaker  at  a  recent  Mathletes  Recognition 
Night  held  at  her  alma  mater.  Hudson 
(Mass.)  High  School.  She  lives  in 
Leominster,  where  she  operates  her  own 
engineering  consulting  firm. 


Transformations    I    Fall  2000     4  1 


Pam  (Kelly)  Sluter  is  training  to  run  the 
Maine  Marathon  on  Oct.  1 ,  2006,  as  part 
of  the  Leukemia  and  Lymphoma  Society's 
Team  in  Training  program.  "I  am  commit- 
ted to  raising  $1,850  for  the  society,  75  per- 
cent of  which  will  be  used  directly  toward 
research.  Anyone  interested  in  making  a 
donation  can  reach  me  at  pjslu@lycos.com." 

Kenny  Volock  earned  a  master's  degree 
from  the  University  of  Maine  in  1999  and 
passed  his  PE  exam  in  2005.  He  works  for 
Woodard  &  Curran  in  Portland,  Maine. 


Alumni  who  work  at  Microsoft  reconnected  with  their  alma  mater  this  summer, 
when  Mike  Gennert,  Computer  Science  Department  head,  and  Terry  Schmidt  Adams  '92, 

director  of  corporate  relations,  visited  Microsoft's  Redmond,  Wash.,  headquarters.  Adams 
spoke  to  the  group  about  major  developments  at  WPI  over  the  last  decade  as  well  as 
those  on  the  horizon.  Gennert  briefed  attendees  on  the  history  and  future  direction  of 
the  department.  They  also  discussed  WPI's  extensive  K— 1  2  outreach  and  diversity 
retention  programs,  and  the  university's  evolving  robotics  engineering  degree  program 
with  Microsoft  executives. 

Will  Lees  '85  organized  the  event;  also  participating  were  Mark  Romberg  '82,  Peter 
Woods  '84  MS'98,  Rob  Mauceri  '87,  Howie  Dickerman  '93  MS'94,  Jonathan  Tanner  '98 
MS '99,  Ben  Leclerc  '01,  Brad  Snow  '01,  Kati  Dimitrova  MS'03,  Rimma  Nehme  MS' 05, 

and  current  CS  graduate  students  Yuan  Gao  and  Shoushen  Yang. 


1997 


Brian  Lakin  and  his  wife,  Michelle, 
announce  the  birth  of  their  second  child, 
Jacob  Ethan,  on  Feb.  5,  2006.  He  joins  his 
big  sister  Shayna  in  their  home  in  Hamden, 
Conn. 

Scott  McDermott  married  Jessica  Hassett 
on  April  6,  2006.  They  live  in  Imperial, 
Calif. 

Jami  Walsh  passed  the  PE  exam  and  is  now 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  the  state 
of  Massachusetts. 


1998 


Capt.  Chad  Braley  joined  Phaedrus 
Technologies.  He  lives  in  South  Portland, 
Maine. 


Penelope  (Taska)  Butler  joined  the  Air 
Force  Reserves'  7th  Space  Operations 
Squadron  as  a  GPS  operator.  She  left  active 
duty  in  December  to  pursue  a  full-time 
interior  design  program  at  the  Art  Institute 
of  Colorado.  She  and  her  husband,  Chris, 
live  in  Colorado  Springs. 

Michael  and  Stacy  (Gold)  Gagne  are 

pleased  to  announce  the  birth  of  their 
daughter,  Catherine  Elizabeth.  Cate  was 
born  Feb.  23,  2006.  The  family  lives  in 
Gainsville,  Va.,  where  both  parents  work  as 
project  engineers  at  Aerojet  Corp.  They 
write  that  Stacy  has  gone  back  to  work  "to 
ensure  that  proper  funds  will  be  available  in 
1 9  years  for  Cate  to  attend  WPI  and  carry 
on  the  Gagne  tradition." 

Brendan  Smith  will  join  the  MBA  class  of 
2008  at  Harvard  Business  School,  with  full- 
time  classes  starting  this  fall. 


1999 


Ted  Goodwin  is  a  senior  software  engineer 
for  EMC  Corp.  He  lives  in  Sturbridge  with 
his  wife,  Lindsay,  and  daughter,  Rita. 

Melissa  (Clark)  and  Matthew  Johnson  '98 

are  thrilled  to  announce  the  birth  of  their 
first  child,  Rachael  Elizabeth,  on  March  8, 
2006.  They  live  in  southern  Rhode  Island. 

John  Rush  and  Kate  Burgess  '00  opened 
Evolo  Home  Center,  selling  high-end  luxury 
modular  homes  in  Newport,  Maine.  They 
did  not  know  each  other  at  WPI,  but  met 
while  working  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  in 
Connecticut.  Kate's  father  joined  them  in 
the  new  business,  which  opened  in  March. 

Lisa  (Angle)  and  Garren  Walters  '98  had 

their  second  son,  Evan  William,  in  March 
2006.  Evan  joins  big  brother  Justin,  2,  in 
their  Nashua,  N.H.  home. 


i 

^       ^^Hu      Which  university  offers  the 

^           *'  ^U    m       only  MBA  east  of  the  Rockies  that 

%\»         ranked  in  the  Top  10  in  both  Career 
■31       Prospects  and  Opportunities  for 
|£      Women?     Yours* 

■^+<+*^m^*              ™                      We  know  that  when  choosing  an  MBA  program,  nothing  matters 
j^w^i                more  than  the  doors  it  opens  for  you.  The  MBA  at  WPI  launches 

^BN^l          more  rewarding  careers  and  provides  greater  opportunities  to  move  into 
bfetSP-        desirable  career  paths  that  will  inspire  and  challenge  you  for  a  lifetime. 
OBB  >Si^^^  Know  where  you  want  to  go?  Choose  the  MBA  that  will  get  you  there. 

A  \(  .SB-International  Accredited              ^^^^OJ           ^m^/^ 
Princeton  Review:  *2  in  U.S.,  Greatest  Opportunitics^HJ  Mr;^' ' 
for  Women;  #9,  Best  Career  Prospects                                  ^^^^^^^. 

Business  2.0:  #9  in  U.S.,  Where  Your  Career  Prospects                   ^^^^ 

Are  Brightest 

U.S.  News  &  World  Report:  Top  55  National  Universities; 

Best  Online  MBA  Programs                                                                                ^ 

pWPI 

For  mere  information 

508-831-5218 

wiflrw.mgt.wpi.edu 

4  2    Trt 

ins  forma  t  ions    1   Fall  2006 

. 

i  lumecummy .   wtiouer  o— /  ,   zuvjo 


ciass  no 


Gambling  OII   Gompei?  At  the  Bellagio  Casino  in  Las  Vegas  with  one  very 
lucky  goat  are,  from  left,  Richard  Scopeiliti  '99,  Stephanie  McGrath  '00,  Nicole  (Roy)  Niccoli 
'00,  Matthew  Vidal  '99,  Vladislav  Zilberman  '99,  and  Eric  Niccoli  '00. 

Send  us  a  picture  and  tell  us  where  you've  shown  your  WPI  spirit  lately. 


2001 


Fernando  Ayala  holds  the  post  of  global 
public  sector  consultant  for  Grant  Thornton 
in  Washington,  D.C. 

Jessica  Hoepf  and  John  Costa  '02  were 
married  April  22,  2006.  Many  WPI  alumni 
were  in  attendance  at  their  wedding  in  New 
Hampshire,  which  helped  make  the  day  spe- 
cial. The  couple  traveled  to  the  South 
Pacific  for  their  honeymoon  and  spent  12 
days  in  Tahiti,  Bora  Bora,  Le  Taha'a,  and 
Moorea. 

Congratulations  to  Jennifer  Headman,  who 
married  Jeremy  Van  Vleet  on  March  1 1 , 
2006.  They  took  time  off  from  their  PhD 
studies  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin- 
Madison  for  a  honeymoon  trip  to  London 
and  Paris.  This  spring  Jennifer  learned  that 
she  had  been  selected  as  a  Fulbright  Fellow 
to  spend  the  2006-07  academic  year  con- 
ducting energy  research  at  the  Technical 
University  of  Denmark  in  Lyngby. 

Danielle  (Barber)  Kotmel  and  her  hus- 
band, Josh,  proudly  welcomed  their  second 
daughter,  Niveah  Mae,  to  the  family  on 
May  7,  2006.  Niveah  joins  her  fabulous  big 
sister,  Lilya  Jane,  born  in  2004. 

Fang  Li  (MS  PPE)  works  in  the  Shanghai 
office  of  the  RJA  Group. 

It  has  been  a  busy  year  for  the  Mullers, 
write  Paul  and  Amanda  (Kight)  Muller. 


Paul,  who  was  promoted  to  the  rank  of  cap- 
tain, graduated  from  the  Air  Force  Institute 
of  Technology  in  June  with  an  MS  degree  in 
physics.  In  the  same  week,  Amanda  com- 
pleted the  requirements  for  her  PhD  in 
human  factors  engineering  at  Wright  State 
University.  The  newly  dubbed  Captain  and 
Doctor  Muller  now  reside  in  Melbourne, 
Fla.,  where  Paul  works  for  the  Air  Force 
Technical  Application  Center  at  Patrick  Air 
Force  Base,  and  Amanda  serves  as  a  systems 
engineer  for  Northrop  Grumman. 

Todd  Staples  and  Sherry  Theriault  are 
pleased  to  announce  the  birth  of  their  second 
child,  Savannah  Jean,  born  April  19,  2006. 
She  joins  big  brother  Isaac  in  their  home  in 
Grafton,  Mass.  "We  could  not  be  happier," 
writes  Todd.  "She  is  perfect." 


2002 


Dan  Tromp 
and  {Catherine 
Labbe  '05  were 
married  on  Aug. 
6,  2005.  The 
wedding  was 
attended  by 
numerous  WPI 
alumni,  includ- 
ing Stephen 
Worsham  as 
best  man  and  Alexis  Steinhart  '05  as  a 


S 


bridesmaid.  Dan  and  Katie  have  a  home  in 
Worcester.  Katie  will  be  attending  Massa- 
chusetts College  of  Pharmacy  in  the  fall; 
Dan  is  a  software  developer  for  ING. 


2003 


American  Dryer  Corp.  recently  named 
David  Campbell  technical  regional  sales 
manager  for  the  northeastern  United  States 
and  Canada. 

On  March  17,  2006,  Lt.  j.g.  Ryan  Clarke 
was  designated  a  naval  aviator  and  received 
his  Wings  of  Gold.  His  next  assignment  is 
with  Strike  Fighter  Squadron  One  Two  Two 
(VFA-122),  learning  to  fly  the  Boeing  F/A- 
18E/F  Super  Hornet,  the  Navy's  newest 
front-line  strike-fighter  jet. 

Brett  Ericson  is  pursing  his  master's  degree 
in  biotechnology  at  WPI  as  the  university's 
first  ECI  Biotech  fellow. 

Ronja  LaBrecque  and  Anthony  Yergeau 

'06  got  engaged  on  May  20,  2006.  They  are 
planning  a  September  2007  wedding  in 
southern  New  Hampshire. 

Married  for  over  two  years  now,  1st  Lt. 
Scott  Martin  (USMC)  and  his  wife,  the 
former  Lindsey  Corcoran,  enjoyed  a  formal 
wedding  ceremony  in  August  2005.  Scott 
completed  his  MBA  degree  at  Boston 
University  and  is  currently  deployed  to 
Djibouti,  Africa,  in  support  of  Operation 
Enduring  Freedom.  The  Martins  reside  at 
Marine  Corps  Air  Station  Cherry  Point,  N.C. 

Natalie  (Woodworth)  and  Dan  Reed  were 
married  in  2005,  in  a  small  mountaintop 
ceremony  at  Acadia  National  Park  in  Maine, 
with  classmates  Caitlin  Harvey,  Jillian 
O'Toole  Urban,  and  Ryan  Wartman  in  the 
wedding  party.  Natalie  and  Dan  welcomed 
the  birth  of  their  first  child,  Julia  Madeline 
Reed,  on  March  2,  2006.  They  live  in 
Bangor,  Maine. 

Jennifer  Schelly  completed  her  MS  in  elec- 
trical engineering  at  Tufts  University  on 
May  22,  2006.  She  works  for  BAE  Systems 
in  Nashua,  N.H. 


2004 


Rebecca  Croteau  and  Tyson  Moore  were 
married  on  July  9,  2006,  in  Newport,  R.I. 
The  couple  currendy  resides  in  Franklin,  Mass. 

Matt  Musiak  ('06  MSEE)  was  appointed 
to  the  position  of  product  engineer  at  ITT 
Power  Solutions,  based  in  West  Springfield, 
Mass.,  where  he  interned  as  an  undergraduate. 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006    A3 


Spotlight  on  Alumni  Volunteers 

Jake  Roczniak  '03,  one  of  the  youngest  members  of  the  Alumni  Cabinet,  heads  the 
group's  operations  division.  Technically,  he  oversees  class  boards  of  directors 
meetings— which  occur  annually  during  the  morning  of  Homecoming— as  well  as  the 
Alumni  Leadership  Council  and  various  other  committees. 

But  more  important,  Roczniak  points  out,  is  his  unofficial 
job  of  increasing  volunteerism  among  alumni.  Through  his 
work  with  the  Alumni  Cabinet  and  through  the  Greek 
Alumni  Council,  which  he  helped  reestablish  last  year, 
Roczniak  is  on  a  mission. 

"It  can  be  hard  to  get  alumni  reconnected  with  WPI,  which 
is  unfortunate,"  he  concedes.  "One  of  our  biggest 
challenges  is  bringing  volunteers  back.  So,  to  start,  we're 
compiling  a  list  of  all  the  ways  that  alumni  can  volunteer." 

Roczniak,  now  a  consultant  with  Milford,  Mass. -based 
Project  Technologies  Group,  majored  in  management 
information  systems  at  WPI.  Originally  from  Lewisburg,  W.Va.,  he  filled  his 
undergraduate  days  with  a  number  of  clubs  and  activities,  including  is  fraternity, 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  "When  I  graduated,  I  immediately  tried  to  restart  the  Greek 
Alumni  Council,"  Roczniak  explains.  "The  Greek  community  is  one  of  the  most  active 
on  campus.  I  knew  alumni  would  want  to  continue  volunteering." 

Last  summer,  he  happily  accepted  an  invitation  from  Alumni  Association  president 
Morgan  Rees  '61  to  chair  the  cabinet's  operations  division.  "I  got  so  much  out  of 
WPI,"  Roczniak  says.  "I  don't  feel  like  I  have  to  volunteer,  but  I  really  want  to.  WPI 
is  where  I  want  to  volunteer  my  time." 

To  learn  more  about  alumni  volunteer  opportunities,  or  to  get  involved,  contact  the 
Office  of  Alumni  Relations  at  508-831-5600  or  alumni-office@wpi.edu. 


Maggie  Tomaswick 

(06  MS)  joined  the 
Product  Engineering 
Dept.  at  Beswick  Engi- 
neering Co.,  where  she  is 
responsible  for  develop- 
ment and  evolution  of 
products  and  improvements  in  manufactur- 
ing, testing,  assembly,  fabrication,  and  quality 
assurance. 

Daniel  WaUance  writes  with  a  follow-up  on 
his  IQP  with  Joe  Havelick  and  Antti  Koski 

'02  on  Efficient  E-\\aste  Management  in 
Costa  Rica,  done  for  Intel.  Their  findings 
were  used  by  a  Costa  Rican  NGO,  in  coop- 
eration with  a  Netherlands  NGO,  to  drive 
a  countrywide  project,  and  a  pilot  E-waste 
recycling  day  was  held  in  November  2005. 
Daniel  is  currently  working  in  New  York 
City  for  a  hedge  fund  devoted  to  value 
investing,  and  runs  his  own  eCommerce 
jewelry  Web  site,  fashionends.com. 


900.^ 


Marghrit  Arous  married 
Berj  Bardizbanian  in 
June  2005.  She  is  a  civil 
engineer  with  the  Mass 
Highway  Dept. 

Marta  Katarzyna 
Krajewska  married  Louis 
George  Asack  III  on  June  3,  2006.  They 
had  a  two-week  honeymoon  in  Mexico  and 
currently  reside  in  southern  Massachusetts. 
Marta  has  been  working  for  GE  since 
January  2005  as  a  design  engineer. 

Roya  Mirhosseini  is  part  of  GE's  Edison 
Engineering  Development  Program. 

Steven  Toddes  and  Michael  Scarsella, 

along  with  mechanical  engineering  professor 
Allen  Hoflfman  '63,  have 
received  WPI's  first  Kalenian 
Award  for  entrepreneurship. 
The  award  recognizes  a 
motorized  brace  they  devel- 
oped, enabling  those  sufTerin 
from  muscular  dystrophy  to 
perform  simple  tasks  with 


their  hands,  and  thus,  sain  a  greater  sense  of 
independence.  Hoffman,  professor  and  co- 
founder  of  WPI's  Assistive  Technology 
Resource  Center,  Scarsella,  and  Toddes  were 
awarded  $25,000  in  seed  funding  to  help 
further  develop  and  commercialize  the  tech- 
nology. 

The  Kalenian  Award  was  established 
this  year  by  Alba  Kalenian  in  memory  of 
her  late  husband,  inventor  Aram  Kalenian 
'33.  Its  purpose  is  to  encourage  innovation 
and  entrepreneurship  among  WPI  students, 
faculty,  and  alumni. 

School  of  Industrial 
Management 

Wallace  West  '83  writes, 
"After  retiring  from 
Norton  Co.  in  1987,  I 
operated  Cleveland  Place, 
a  bookshop,  bed  & 
breakfast,  and  craft  shop 
in  Alma,  New 
Brunswick,  Canada,  until  2003,  when 
daughter  Jane  became  owner.  Now,  my  wife, 
Anna,  and  I  run  Wallyanna  Farm  in  rural 
Hammondvale,  New  Brunswick.  We  are 
caregivers  for  geese,  Arabian  horses,  and 
chickens. 


Survey  drawing  Winners 

Congratulations  to  William  Riccio  '88,  who  won 
an  iPod  in  the  random  drawing  of  respondents 
to  the  Alumni  Communications  Survey.  Second 
place  winner  was  John  Cunk  '68;  third  place, 
Anthony  Cosenze  '04.  Thanks  to  all  who 
participated.  The  survey  results  will  be  reported 
in  a  future  issue  of  Transformations  and  in  The 
Bridge,  WPI's  alumni  e-newsletter.  Sign  up  to 
receive  The  Bridge  and  stay  connected  to  WPI. 

wpi.eduAbridge 


A^     Trans  form  at  i  ons    I   Fall  2006 


woiTuaries 


Obituaries 


Grandpa  Ed"  dies  at  98 

Edward  D.  Amsden  '31 
(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  died 
April  6,  2006.  His  wife, 
Margaret,  died  in  1995; 
he  leaves  three  sons.  He  was 
the  longtime  owner  of  the 
J.  W.  Ladd  Manufacturing 
Co.,  but  Ansden  is  best 
remembered  for  his  volun- 
teer work  in  the  towns  of 
Hill  and  Concord,  N.  H.  Here  are  excerpts 
from  an  appreciation  by  Melanie  Asmar, 
reprinted  with  permission  from  the 
Concord  Monitor. 

Ed  Amsden,  known  to  hundreds  of 
Concord  schoolchildren  as  "Grandpa 
Ed,"  was  buried  Sunday  with  a  tiny 
reading  lamp  in  his  pocket.  It  was  the 
kind  he  had  shined  on  countless  pages 
as  he  quietly  listened  to  second-graders 
sound  out  three-syllable  words  in  ele- 
mentary school  hallways,  following 
along  through  the  thick  glasses  he'd 
worn  since  he  was  a  bov. 


Born  in  1908,  he  loved  to  tell  stories 
about  the  "olden  days."  On  his  95th 
birthday,  he  regaled  the  kids  at  Rumford 
School  with  tales  of  horse-drawn  plows, 
once-a-week  baths,  and  traveling  circuses. 

After  the  death  of  his  wire,  Amsden 
began  volunteering.  "This  soft-spoken 
elderly  gentleman  came  in  and  said  he 
wanted  us  to  find  him  something  to  do 
every  day."  said  Nancy  Sparer,  director 
of  the  Retired  and  Senior  Volunteer  pro- 
gram.  "He  was  88  years  old.  We  never 
thought  10  years  later,  he'd  be  going 
strong." 

In  all,  Amsden  volunteered  at  more 
than  40  nonprofit  organizations.  He 
had  a  special  place  in  his  heart  tor 
schoolchildren,  his  son  Hank  said, 
especially  those  who  struggled.  In 
Amsden's  honor.  Rumtord  and  Walker 
schools  have  established  a  "Grandpa  Ed 
Reading  Award"  to  be  given  to  the  child 
who  makes  the  most  reading  progress 
each  vear. 


Linval  D.  Harvey  '33 

of  Fall  River,  Mass.,  died 
Feb.  15,2006.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Doris  (Clarner), 
and  a  daughter.  Harvey 
was  retired  trom  .Allen- 
dale Insurance  Co.  as 
senior  vice  president. 

Transformations  recently  learned  ol  the 
death  of  Chester  B.  Cotton  '34  in  2003. 
A  former  stockbroker  for  Bear,  Stearns  Co. 
in  New  York  City,  he  retired  and  moved  to 
Palm  Beach,  Fla. 

Albert  B.  Glenn  '34  of  Millbury,  Mass., 
died  May  1-4.  2006.  A  U.S.  Army  veteran 
stationed  in  Hawaii  at  the  time  of  the 
Japanese  attack  on  Pearl  Harbor,  he  was  a 
loyal  member  of  the  Pearl  Harbor  Survivors 
Association  and  was  one  or  the  oldest  living 
survivors  of  the  attack.  Glenn  was  retired 
from  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts 
as  a  conservation  and  natural  resources  offi- 
cer. Predeceased  by  two  brothers,  he  leaves 
his  caregivers. 


Jacob  Smith  '34  (.Alpha  Epsilon  Pi)  of 
Worcester  died  March  1.  2006.  He  leaves 
his  wire,  Jennie  (Slarskey).  and  two  children. 
He  was  a  longtime  plant  manager  for 
Worcester  Knitting  Co. 

Francis  L.  Harrington 
'35  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Queensburv.  N.Y..  died 
April  8,  2006.  He  leaves 
his  wile.  Trudy  (Brown), 
and  three  sons.  He  joined 
Cottrell  Paper  Co.  after 
graduation  and  retired  as  treasurer  and  gen- 
eral manager. 

Charles  S.  Smith  '35  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 
Skull)  of  Fort  Lauderdale.  Fla..  died  May  1. 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wire,  Ruth  (Boettcher), 
and  three  children.  Smith  was  the  retired 
president  ol  Chas.  S.  Smith  Marine 
Consultants. 

Alumni  who  wish  to  make  contributions 
in  memory  of  classmates  and  friends  may 
contact  the  Office  of  Development  and 
Alumni  Relations  at  508-831-5660  or 
acolgan@wpi.edu. 


I    Eric  W.  Soderberg  '35 
^PKo      I    (Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
I    Miltord.  Conn.,  died 
f*^  «cfl    Feb.  6,  2006,  leaving 
^^<k  ^^k    his  wire.  Jessie  (Sullivan). 
~  ^H   I    and  a  daughter.  He  was 
3^^k_^_4^_   I    predeceased  by  a  son  and 
a  daughter.  Soderberg  was  the  owner  of 
Newburg  Molded  Products. 

Edward  W.  Armstrong 

'36   Theta  Chi)  of 
Fitchburg.  Mass..  died 
May  2,  2006.  His  wife. 
Muriel  (McBride)  died  in 
2005.  Two  children  sur- 
vive them.  .Armstrong 
served  as  a  mathematics  instructor  at  WTI 
in  the  1940s.  He  retired  from  Simonds  Saw 
&  Steel  Co.  in  1981  as  manager  of  manu- 
facturing after  30  years  of  service. 

Robert  E.  Maynard  Sr.  '36    SIM  '53)  of 

Grafton.  Mass.,  died  March  24,  2006.  He 
was  the  husband  ot  Kathleen  (Horgan).  the 
father  of  Robert  E.  Maynard  Jr.  63  and 
another  son.  and  the  grandfather  ot  Robert 
E.  Maynard  III   8".  .Another  son  prede- 
ceased him.  Maynard  was  retired  from  the 
Vacuum  Division  of  Yarian  as  purchasing 
manager. 

Trustee  Emeritus  Caleb  D.  "Bud" 
Hammond  '37  (Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Skull) 
of  Maplewood.  N.J..  died  May  29.  2006. 
He  was  the  retired  president  of  C.  S. 
Hammond  &  Co.,  the  mapmaking  com- 
pany founded  by  his  grandfather  in  1900, 
which  he  helped  bring  into  the  digital  age. 
Hammond  received  the  Robert  H.  Goddard 
.Alumni  Award  tor  Outstanding  Professional 
Achievement  in  1992.  He  served  as  a  trustee 
from  1978  to  1988.  He  is  survived  by  his 
wife.  Patricia,  a  son,  and  two  daughters. 

Werner  P.  Held  '38  of  Lynn  wood,  Wash., 
died  Nov.  17,  2004.  He  is  survived  by  his 
wife.  Doris  (Sorensen).  and  two  children:  a 
daughter  predeceased  him.  A  longtime  high 
school  teacher,  he  retired  from  Hellgate 
High  School  in  Missoula.  Mont.,  in  1979. 

Joseph  W.  Staniunas  '38 

(Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon)  ol 
Lloyd  Harbor,  N.Y..  died 
March  25,  2006. 
Predeceased  by  his  wite. 
Naomi,  he  leaves  two 
children.  He  was  retired 

trom  Pratt  &  Whitney,  where  he  worked  on 

Wasp  aircraft  and  jet  engines. 


Transformations    I    Fall  200b     ^5 


Obituaries 


Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  John  A.  Backes  '39  (formerly  Baskis) 
on  Feb.  6,  2004.  A  retired  field  officer  for 
Textron  Inc.,  he  and  his  wife,  Bernice 
(Kamendulis),  lived  in  Mesa,  Ariz. 

Charles  W.  Cummings  '39  (Theta  Chi) 
of  Cathedral  City,  Calif.,  died  May  1,  2004. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Shirley,  and  two  children. 
He  was  retired  from  Pacific  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  as  a  transmission  manager. 

■  Apostle  T.  Dervos  '39 

fO»M  I  of  Surf  City,  N.J., 

I  died  March  14,  2004. 

I  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 

^k     -^  I  Kathryn,  he  leaves  three 

|fk   _  I  children.  Dervos  was 

H^L-^H  I  retired  from  Bendix 
Corp.  as  a  manufacturing  manager. 

H.  Roger  Erickson  '40  of  Holden,  Mass., 
died  Feb.  21,  2005.  A  retired  human 
resources  specialist,  he  served  as  personnel 
manager  for  U.S.  Envelope  Co.  and  later 
Worcester  County  Institution  for  Savings. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Anna,  and  a  son. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Warren  C.  Hotchkiss  '40  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta,  Skull)  of  Conyers,  Ga.,  in  1994.  He 
was  sales  engineer  and  manager  for  several 
Connecticut  companies.  He  and  his  wife, 
Gretel,  had  two  sons. 

Robert  E.  Dean  '41  of  Framingham, 

Mass.,  died  Aug.  14,  2005,  leaving  his  wife. 
Mildred  (Weisman),  and  three  children.  He 
was  the  president  of  Dean  Machinery. 

James  E.  McGinnis  '41 

(Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Sun  City,  Fla.,  died 
Jan.  19,  2006.  He  is  sur- 
vived by  his  wife,  Ruth 
(Farady),  and  six  chil- 
dren. He  worked  for 

Xe\\  England  Telephone  in  Boston,  and 

AT&T  in  New  York. 

Anthony  J.  Yakutis  '43 

of  Lexington,  Mass., 
died  March  2,  2006.  He 
was  retired  from  MIT's 
Lincoln  Laboratory. 
Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Barbara  (Sturtevant), 


and  four  children. 


John  W.  Hagstrom  '44 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Centerville,  Mass.,  died 
March  10,  2006.  Pre- 
deceased by  his  first  wife, 
Elaine,  in  1991,  he  mar- 
ried the  former  Jane 


Kimball  in  1992,  giving  him  a  second  fami- 
ly. In  addition  to  his  wife,  he  is  survived  by 
two  daughters.  Hagstrom  was  retired  from 
General  Motors  Co.  as  a  plant  supervisor. 

Allan  R.  Mandelin  '44  of  San  Diego, 
Calif,  died  Feb.  16,  2006.  He  earned  a 
master's  degree  in  mathematics  at  Southern 
Methodist  University  and  worked  with  early 
data  processing  computers  at  Chance 
Vought  Aircraft:  in  the  1950s.  He  later 
joined  IBM  and  worked  on  NASA  projects, 
developing  programs  for  Shuttle  and  Space 
Station  missions.  His  wife,  Dorothy,  sur- 
vives him. 

Edwin  G.  Baldwin  '45 

(Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  Burlington,  N.C., 
died  Feb.  3,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Betsy 
(Shumway),  and  two 
children.  He  earned  a 
master's  degree  in  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI  in  1948  and  joined  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories.  He  retired  from  AT&T  in 
1 984  as  director  of  patent  and  technologies 
licensing. 

Edmund  F.  Jurga  '46  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Syosset,  N.Y.,  died  March  25,  2006.  His 
wife,  Mary  (Ryan)  died  in  1994.  A  daughter 
survives  him.  Jurga  was  a  retired  industrial 
engineer  for  General  Electric  Co. 

John  C.  Waddell  '46  of  Traverse  City, 
Mich.,  died  June  25,  2005.  He  was  the 
retired  president  of  J.C.  Waddell  Sales  Corp. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Jean,  and  three 
children. 

Thomas  M.  Zajac  '46  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  West  Hartford,  Conn.,  died  May  12, 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Eleanor  (Emerson), 
and  rwo  children.  Zajac  was  retired  from 
Hamilton  Standard  Division  of  United 
Aircraft  (now  United  Technologies)  as  chief 
of  materials  engineering  and  structural 
integrity.  He  continued  as  a  consultant  in 
the  aerospace  industry. 

Daniel  G.  Lewis  Jr.  '47  (Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon,  Skull)  of  Bethesda,  Md.,  died  Jan. 
28,  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Barbara,  and 
nine  children.  He  was  retired  as  director  of 
technical  services  for  American  Public  Power 
Associates. 

V.  Lawrence  Petersen  '47  (Alpha  Tau 
Omega)  died  June  1 1 ,  2004,  at  his  home 
in  Morro  Bay,  Calif.  His  wife,  Barbara,  and 
four  children  survive  him.  Petersen  worked 
for  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co.  for  38 
years,  retiring  as  vice  president  of  material 
management. 


Richard  F.  Smith  '49  of  Baldwinville, 
Mass.,  died  June  15,  2004.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Roberta,  and  two  children. 
A  former  consulting  engineer,  he  also 
worked  for  New  England  Nuclear. 

Louis  G.  DelSignore  '51  (Phi  Kappa 
Theta)  of  Dover,  N.H.,  died  April  19, 
2006,  leaving  his  wife,  Jeanne,  and  eight 
children.  An  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Army, 
he  worked  at  Pease  Air  Force  Base  and 
Westover  Air  Force  Base. 

Alan  S.  Foss  '52  (Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon),  professor 
emeritus  of  chemical 
engineering  at  the 
Universiry  of  California, 
Berkeley,  died  Feb.  22, 
2006.  He  received  his 
master's  degree  and  doctorate  from  the 
University  of  Delaware.  He  also  served  as  a 
senior  staff  scientist  at  Lawrence  Berkeley 
National  Laboratory.  Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Anna  Mathe,  and  four  children. 

Robert  F.  Niro  '54  of 

(Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
Medway,  Mass.,  died 
April  12,  2006.  He  is 
survived  by  his  wife, 
Jacqueline  (Abretti),  and 
two  children.  He  was 

retired  from  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  with 

25  years  of  service. 

David  P.  Nygard  '54  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  died  Feb.  23,  2006,  at  his  home  in 
Bourne,  Mass.  A  longtime  computer  special- 
ist for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  Morgan 
Construction  Co.,  and  Price  Waterhouse, 
he  continued  as  a  self-employed  consultant 
after  retirement.  His  wife,  Nancy  (Ohrn), 
and  three  children  survive  him. 

Edward  L.  Gallini  '57  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Marion,  Mass.,  died  April  30,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Mary  (Denechaud),  and 
three  children.  He  earned  an  MBA  from 
Western  New  England  College  and  was 
retired  from  Johnson  &  Johnson  as  a  design 
engineer. 

Arthur  R.  Larocque  '57  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Houston  died  March  24,  2006. 
He  was  retired  from  a  career  in  the  oil 
industry  that  included  Shell  Oil  Co.,  Gulf 
Oil  Co.,  NuCoastal,  and  Coastal  Refining 
&  Marketing,  where  he  served  as  vice  presi- 
dent. He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Wallis,  and 
three  children. 

Joseph  F.  Coveney  '59  (MSChE)  (Theta 
Chi)  of  Sarasota,  Fla.,  died  May  6,  2006. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Ginny  (Kimball),  and 
five  children.  He  was  retired  from  Praxair. 


46     Transformations    I   Fall  2006 


Obituaries 


Lawrence  W.  Cochrane  Jr.  '60  of  Port 
Charlotte,  Fla.,  died  May  7,  2006.  A  retired 
school  teacher  for  Pentucket  Regional  Junior 
High,  he  held  a  master's  degree  in  education 
from  Salem  State  College.  He  also  studied  at 
the  New  England  Conservatory  of  Music 
and  the  Eastman  School  of  Music.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Marilyn,  and  two  children. 

John  D.  Driscoll  '60 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Newark,  Del.,  died 
March  27,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Lorraine, 
and  three  children. 
Driscoll  was  a  nuclear 

engineer  who  worked  for  PSE&G  and 

United  Engineers. 

Richard  H.  York  '62  (Tau  Kappa  Epsilon) 
of  Moraga,  Calif.,  died  Dec.  15,  2005.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Linda,  and  two  children. 
York  earned  a  masters  degree  in  geotech- 
nical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
California  and  worked  for  Harlan  Tait 
Associates  for  28  years. 

James  V.  Silvestri  II  '63  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Easton,  Conn.,  died  March  11, 
2006,  1 6  years  after  surviving  a  heart  trans- 
plant. He  was  a  longtime  high  school 
teacher  and  baseball  coach.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Margaret  (Pitt),  and  three 
children. 

Scott  Sargent  '65  (SIM)  of  Kennebunk, 
Maine,  died  Jan.  13,  2006,  at  age  73.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Helen,  and  three  children. 
He  was  retired  from  Morgan  Construction 
Co.  as  a  director  and  vice  president  of 
finance. 

Byron  L.  "Barney"  Dennison  '67  (PhD) 
of  Westford,  Mass.,  and  Blacksburg,  Va., 
died  March  13,  2006.  A  former  chair  of 
the  Electrical  Engineering  Department  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  Lowell,  he 
also  taught  at  Virginia  Tech,  Southeastern 
Massachusetts  University  (now  University 
of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth),  and  Merri- 
mack College.  He  is  survived  by  two  chil- 
dren, his  former  wife,  Betty  Davis,  and  his 
close  friend  Barbara  Thurston. 

Paul  O.  Granquist  '67  (SIM)  died  April 
12,  2006,  at  his  home  in  Holden,  Mass.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Anna  (Losapio)  and  two 
children.  Granquist  was  the  retired  CEO 
and  owner  of  the  Thomas  Smith  Co.  He 
received  the  1991  Albert  J.  Schwieger 
Award  for  Professional  Achievement  from 
WPI's  School  of  Industrial  Management. 


Former  police  chief,  Faculty  Wives  Club  president  mourned 

Alfred  T.  Whitney,  83,  longtime  head  of  Campus  Police,  died  May  1  2,  2006.  Whitney  began  his  career 
with  the  Massachusetts  State  Police,  where  he  became  a  narcotics  investigations  expert.  After  23  years  of 
service,  he  retired  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant,  and  joined  the  WPI  police  force  in  1969.  He  retired  in 
January  1990.  »J»  "Chief  Whitney  was  instrumental  in  professionalizing  the  WPI  Police  Department," 
says  Director  of  Public  Safety  and  Chief  of  Police  Cheryl  Martunas.  "He  was  innovative  and  progressive 
and  brought  the  WPI  Police  to  the  forefront  as  one  of  the  finest  campus  police  agencies  in  central 
Massachusetts."  Under  his  direction,  the  former  security  guard/watchperson  regime  was  transformed  into  an 
academy-trained,  professionally  equipped,  uniformed  police  force.  He  also  oversaw  the  development  of  a 
standard  operating  procedure  manual  and  the  installation  of  an  intrusion  alarm  system.  ♦$►  A  longtime 
resident  of  Maynard,  Mass.,  Whitney  later  moved  to  Osterville.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Beverly,  three 
sons,  and  seven  grandchildren. 

Gwen  (Lundin)  Hall,  76,  wife  of  Robert  J.  Hall,  former  director  of  continuing  education  and  professor 
emeritus  of  management  and  mechanical  engineering,  died  June  8,  2006.  She  was  well  known  to  the  WPI 
community  as  president  of  the  Faculty  Wives  Club.  She  was  also  an  active  volunteer  in  her  hometown, 
Paxton,  Mass.  Besides  her  husband  of  56  years,  she  is  survived  by  four  children  and  nine  grandchildren. 


Rene  B.  LaPierre  '67  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Guilford,  Conn.,  died  April  30,  2006. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Patricia,  and  two  chil- 
dren. He  was  retired  from  Mobil  Research 
Corp.,  where  he  spent  most  of  his  career  as 
a  research  and  development  manager  and 
senior  technologist.  He  later  served  as  vice 
president  of  research  and  engineering  at 
Precision  Combustion.  LaPierre  held 
numerous  patents  and  published  widely  in 
the  field  of  petrochemical  manufacture. 

James  R.  Crabb  '68  (Lambda  Chi  Alpha) 
of  Stratford,  Conn.,  died  April  19,  2006. 
He  was  a  town  yard  supervisor  in  the  Office 
of  Operations  for  the  town  of  Stamford.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Marie  (Thomes),  and  a  son. 

Michael  D.  McCormick  '70  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Lincoln,  Mass.,  died  March  16, 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Colleen,  and  two 
daughters.  He  was  a  sales  and  marketing 
executive  in  the  semiconductor  industry. 

Robert  P.  Apkarian  '75  of  Chamblee,  Ga., 
was  killed  in  an  accident,  Feb.  28,  2006. 
An  internationally  recognized  microscopist, 
he  founded  and  directed  the  Integrated 
Microscopy  and  Microanalytical  Facility  at 
Emory  University,  where  he  pioneered  new 
technologies  in  the  field.  For  his  work  on 
behalf  of  scientists  in  the  Republic  of 
Armenia,  Apkarian  was  appointed  an  hon- 
orary member  of  the  National  Academy  of 
Scientists.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Juliette. 

Wayne  E.  Stratton  '75  (Sigma  Pi)  of 
Gaithersburg,  Md.,  died  Feb.  10,  2006. 
He  was  an  electrical  engineer  with  the  U.S. 
Consumer  Products  Safety  Commission 
Laboratory. 

Brian  P.  Plummer  '76  of  Rio  Rancho, 
N.M.,  died  unexpectedly  March  15,  2005. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Evelyn,  and  four  chil- 
dren. He  worked  in  quality  control  at  Intel 
Corp.  for  26  years. 


Thomas  A.  Brillhart  '85  (SIM)  of 
Whitinsville,  Mass.,  died  April  9,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Jean,  and  two  children.  He 
worked  at  Kidde-Fenwal  Inc.  for  25  years 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Erdan  Jin  '90  (MSEE)  of  Middleton, 
Mass.,  in  2001. 

Benjamin  Alesbrook  '03  of  Worcester, 
Mass.,  died  March  17,  2006,  following  a  car 
accident  in  Hingham.  Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Heather  (Metterville),  his  parents, 
grandparents,  and  a  brother.  Alesbrook  was 
a  mechanical  design  engineer  at  Integrated 
Process  Technologies. 

Roger  J.  Schafer  III  '05  (Alpha  Phi 
Omega)  drowned  July  29,  2006,  while 
swimming  with  friends  in  the  Ammonoosuc 
River  in  Crawford's  Purchase,  N.H. 
He  recently  completed  the  requirements 
for  a  BS  degree  in  computer  science  and 
was  a  software  engineer  for  FM  Global  in 
Providence,  R.I.  He  is  survived  by  his 
parents,  two  sisters,  and  two  brothers. 

Michael  A.  Plumer  '06  died  March  18, 
2006,  from  injuries  sustained  in  a  motor 
vehicle  accident  in  Kensington,  N.H.,  prior 
to  completing  his  senior  year  at  WPI.  He 
leaves  his  parents  and  a  sister.  A  chemical 
engineering  major,  he  pursued  a  passionate 
interest  in  environmental  protection 
through  his  WPI  projects.  An  article  based 
on  his  MQP  research  on  coal-fired  power 
plants  will  be  published  later  this  year. 

Correction:  The  obituary  of  John  R. 
Taylor  '50  in  the  Spring  2006  issue  omitted 
one  of  his  children.  Taylor  leaves  two  sons, 
Greg  and  Paul,  and  two  daughters,  Nancy 
and  Lisa.  Our  apologies  to  them,  and  to  his 
widow,  Marion. 


Transformations    I    Fall  2006    47 


Time  Capsule 


An  Early  View 


A  select  few  may  remember  WPI  as  it  appears  here,  circa  1933,  in  the  oldest  aerial  photograph  that  exists  of  the  campus. 
In  the  background  are,  from  left,  Boynton  Hall  and  Washburn  shops  (representing  lehr  und  kunst,  theory  and  practice), 
Stratton  Hall,  the  Foundry  (now  the  Project  Center),  Salisbury  Labs,  and  Atwater  Kent  Labs.  Beyond  them,  in  the  distance, 
are  Salisbury  Pond  and  Washburn  &  Moen  Co.,  established  by  WPI  founder  Ichabod  Washburn.  Notable  is  the  large 
amount  of  open  space  on  the  east  side  of  campus.  Within  a  decade,  the  grass  and  tennis  courts  along  West  Street  would 
be  replaced  by  Alden  Memorial,  Beech  Tree  Circle,  and  Higgins  Labs,  and  Earle  Bridge  would  link  the  east  and  west 
campuses.  Look  closely  for  the  cars  near  the  tennis  courts,  a  foreshadowing  of  the  parking  lot  that  would  grow  to  circle 
the  Quadrangle.  The  cars  sit  on  the  approximate  location  of  WPI's  newest  building,  Bartlett  Center,  which  opened  in  May. 


4  8     Transformations    I    Fall  2006 


Graduate  Studies 

in  Science 

Engineering 

Discover.  Innovate.  Advance. 


WPFs  Science  and  Engineering  Graduate  Programs  feature  world-class  faculty  and  facilities. 
WPI's  graduate  students  and  faculty  work  closely  together  in  a  number  of  cutting-edge 
research  areas,  leading  to  breakthroughs  and  innovations  in  such  fields  as  biotechnology,  fuel 
cells,  nanotechnology,  and  information  security.  Opportunities  for  fellowships,  teaching,  and 
research  assistantships  for  full-time  students  are  available. 


Graduate  Programs  at  WPI: 

•  Biology  &  Biotechnology 

•  Biomedical  Engineering 

•  Chemical  Engineering 

•  Chemistry  &  Biochemistry 

•  Civil  &  Environmental  Engineering 

•  Computer  Science 

•  Electrical  &  Computer  Engineering 

•  Fire  Protection  Engineering 


Management 

Manufacturing  Engineering 
Materials  Process  Engineering 
Materials  Science  &  Engineering 
Mathematical  Sciences 
Mechanical  Engineering 
Physics 
Social  Science  &  Polio-  Studies 


The  following  programs  are  available  online: 

Environmental  Engineering,  Eire  Protection  Engineering,  Management,  and  System  Dynamics. 

Information  Session 

Thursday,  September  28,  6  p.m.  •  WPI  Campus  Center 

Register  to  attend  at  www.grad.wpi.edu  or  call  508-831-5301 


raduate  Studies  at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  •   ese(2>wpi.edu  •   508-831-5301 


...„«.«.....„.,........5_DIG1T06281 

S390  P7 

308986897 
Margaret  Anderson 
288  Child  Hill  Rd 
Woodstock  CT  06281-2347 


I....II....I.II..I....II..I.I..II..I..II...II..I.I..I.M, 


Members  of  the  Class  of  1917  pose  in  front  of  Boynton  Hall.  Just  several  months  after  these  men 

graduated,  the  WPI  alumni  magazine  reported,  "As  The  Journal  goes  to  press,  an  even  50  of  the  men  once 

members  of  1917  are  already  listed  in  war  service,  with  the  prospect  that  several  others  will  soon  follow." 

Photo  courtesy  WPI  Archives,  Gordon  Library 


♦j.;    s/-   '  V 


A 


■^     £^A 


H      ^' 


SUMMER  2007 


I 


'    ^A 


^J 


rx 


r  T^~ 


•  in 


^J 


A  Path  to  Call 

Their  Own 


>, 


* 


Departments 


2 

Starting  Point 

3 

Letters 

4 

No  Limits 

A  message  from  President  Berkey. 

5 

Campus  Buzz 

New  Life  Sciences  Center  set  to  open; 

WPI  goes  SAT  optional;  hard  hats  on 

campus;  WPI's  139th  commencement; 

and  more. 

11 

The  Big  Picture 

Andy  Edwards  '09  is  one  of  the  nation's 

youngest  elected  public  officials. 

12 

Inside  WPI 

Father  Pete  retires. 

14 

Explorations 

Introducing  WPI's  newest  project  center, 
in  Cape  Town. 

1 6       Investigations 

Management  professor  Erwin  Danneels 
studies  product  innovation  and 
corporate  renewal. 

40      Alumni  Connections 

Meet  Bill  Krein  '62,  the  new 
Alumni  Association  President- 
Reunion  2007  recap. 

42       Class  Notes 
57      Obituaries 
64      Time  Capsule 


About  the  cover 

Entrepreneurial  in  nature,  Zeb  Tracy  '07  is 
co-founder  of  WPI's  new  entrepreneurship  club. 
Photography  by  Patrick  O'Connor. 

This  page:  photography  by  Andy  Duback. 


1  8       The  Spirit  off  Entrepreneurship  at  WPI 

Faculty  turn  their  ideas  into  marketable  products  with  the  help  of 
WPI  partnerships. 

26       Entrepreneurial  at  Heart 

Alumni  reflect  on  the  path  that  led  them  to  become  entrepreneurs. 


VOLUME    105,     NUMBER   2 
SUMMER   2007 


2 


Beyond  'Eureka!' 

Ed  Neister  '65  and  Tim  McGreal  '04  prove  that  being  an  inventor 
takes  passion,  determination,  hard  work,  and  patience. 


6       A  CEO  of  the  Spirit 

With  degrees  in  business  and  engineering,  Debora  Jackson  '89 
isn't  your  typical  pastor. 


38       Breeding  Business  on 
Fertile  Ground 

As  an  alpaca  breeder,  Jennifer  Lutz  '94 
wears  many  hats  during  any  given  day. 


P®BmO 


'Do  not  go  where  the  path  may  lead,  go  instead  where  there 
is  no  path  and  leave  a  trail/7 

Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (1803-1882) 


Some  25  years  ago,  my  father  and  his  father  talked  about  going  into 
business  together — the  bagel  business.  My  grandfather,  my  Zaide,  would 
be  in  charge  of  making  the  bagels;  my  dad  would  handle  the  rest.  Having 
moved  to  Connecticut  to  go  to  school  in  the  1 960s,  my  father  spent  years 
looking  for  a  good,  New  York-style  bagel. 

Unfortunately,  their  good  idea  remained  just  that — a  good  idea.  Even 
more  unfortunate  is  that  others  have  since  found  success  in  the  same  market. 

How  is  it  we  end  up  where  we  do?  Is  it  careful  planning?  A  chance 
encounter?  A  calculated  risk? 

Students  come  to  WPI  because  they're  interested,  generally,  in  science, 
technology,  engineering,  and  math.  And  certainly,  many  of  those  students 
graduate  and  go  on  to  lead  very  successful  careers  as  engineers,  scientists, 
and  researchers  within  the  STEM  fields. 

In  this  issue  of  Transformations,  we  focus  on  the  stories  of  alumni  who 
have  taken  a  different,  even  unconventional,  path.  What's  the  connection 
between  a  young  inventor  in  Chicago  and  a  pastor  in  Boston?  A  boat-builder 
and  a  venture  capitalist?  An  alpaca  breeder  and  an  angel  investor?  Undoubt- 
edly, they're  bound  together  by  their  alma  mater  (despite  their  far-flung 
interests,  these  alumni  are  quick  to  point  out  that  they  use,  every  day, 
their  WPI  education);  but  they're  also  entrepreneurial  by  nature. 

Given  the  university's  focus  on  interdisciplinary  collaboration  and  its 
founding  principles  of  theory  and  practice,  it  should  come  as  no  surprise  that 
a  good  number  of  alumni  become  involved  in  entrepreneurial  endeavors — 
whether  they're  inventors,  entrepreneurs,  serial  entrepreneurs,  corporate 
executives,  board  chairs,  or  other  leaders,  movers,  and  shakers  in  the 
global  economy. 

Perhaps  it's  not  what  they  foresaw  when  they  arrived  as  freshmen,  but, 
like  so  many  of  our  alumni,  they're  putting  their  knowledge  into  action  to 
solve  critical  problems  in  important  ways. 

Indeed,  the  entrepreneurial  spirit  runs  deep  at  WPI.  You  can  see  it  in 
the  droves  of  alumni  involved  in  promising,  even  lucrative,  ventures;  in  the 
professors  whose  research  forms  the  basis  of  young  new  companies;  and  in 
the  students  committed  to  providing  a  forum  for  budding  entrepreneurs  to 
share  ideas. 

We  tell  these  stories,  and  more — a  new  project  center  opens  in  Cape 
Town,  Father  Pete  retires,  a  WPI  student  lands  a  seat  in  the  New  Hampshire 
statehouse. 

For  me,  landing  at  WPI  two  years  ago  has  been  inspiring,  challenging, 
thought-provoking,  and  surprising.  My  only  complaint?  The  bagels. 

Thanks  for  reading. 

Charna  Westervelt,  Editor 


Charna  Westervelt 
Editor 

Christopher  Hardwick 

Vice  President,  Marketing  and 

Communications 

Joan  Killough-Miller 
Alumni  News  Editor 

Peggy  Isaacson 

Graphic  Designer  and  Copy  Editor 

Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Director  of  Research  Communications 

Sarah  O'Brien  Mackey 
Director  of  Executive  and 
Development  Communications 

Pamela  Mecca 
Design 

Mark  Fisher 
Department  Icons 


Alumni  Communications  Committee 

Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  chair;  Phil  Cyr  -86  (MBA  '02),  James 
Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60,  William  R.  Grogan  '46 
Dusty  Klauber  '68,  Howard  Levine  '72,  Megan  Lindberg  04 
Amy  L.  (Plack)  Marr  '96,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50 

Editorial  Board 

Gina  Betti,  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovatior 
Anne  McPartland  Dodd  '75;  Hossein  Hakim,  Electrical  and 
Computer  Engineering;  Dana  Harmon,  Physical  Education, 
Recreation,  and  Athletics;  Calvin  Hill,  Diversity  Programs; 
Natalie  Mello,  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies;  Robert 
Oborne,  Development;  Denise  Rodino,  Corporate  and 
Foundation  Relations;  Robert  Thompson,  Chemical 
Engineering;  Richard  Vaz,  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering,  and  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies. 

www.wpi.eduA  Transformations 
email:  transformations@wpi.edu 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily 
reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editor  or  official  WPI  policies. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor,  Transformations, 
WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 
Phone:  508-831-6715;  Fax:  508-831-5820. 

Transformations  (ISSN  1 538-5094)  is  published  quatterly  by 
the  Division  of  Marketing  and  Communications  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association.  Printed  in  USA  by  Travers  Printing. 

Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  at  additional 
mailing  offices.  Postmaster:  please  send  address  changes  to  addt 
above.  Entire  contents  ©  2007,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 


Rich  History 

I  was  delighted  to  sec  my  esteemed  father-in-law  occupy  center 
stage  on  the  back  cover  of  the  Fall  2006  Transformations. 

Andrew  B.  Holmstrom    17  truly  became  a  central  figure 
in  WPI's  and  the  city's  rich  history.  WPI  honored  him  in 
1968  with  a  Doctor  of  Engineering  for  his 
accomplishments  in  business  (Norton 
and  civics  (he  was  the  first  mayor  under  the 
new  Plan  E  form  of  government),  and  at 
WPI,  for  his  contributions  as  a  trustee  and 
his  involvement  in  a  capital  fund  campaign. 
The  citation  praised  him  for  his  "uncompro- 
mising integrity  in  his  business,  political, 
and  personal  life."  WPI  can  look  on  his  life 
and  contributions  with  a  great  deal  of  pride. 

Herbert  P.  Narbeshuber  '53 

Chatham,  Mass. 

Fond  of  WPI 

I  want  to  thank  you  for  sending  me  the 

Fall  2006  Transformations.  For  many  years 

I  was  the  director  of  the  Worcester  Redevelopment  Authority. 

I  am  a  graduate  of  Harvard,  and  the  Harvard  School  of 

Design.  Working  in  Worcester,  I  really  enjoyed  my  contacts 

with  WPI.  I  also  have  a  framed  color  photo  of  WPI  in  my 

office  that  I  look  at  all  the  time. 

I  will  only  hope  that  you  continue  to  send  me  the  future 
issues  of  your  wonderful  magazine.  It  is  so  well  done  that  I 
share  it  with  other  friends  of  mine  in  Worcester  who  think 
of  you  as  well  as  I  do. 

Charles  M.  Zettek 

Hopkinton,  Mass. 

Carrying  On  the  Plan 

I  just  finished  reading  the  Fall  2006  issue  of  Transformations 
and  was  very  pleased  with  it.  I  especially  liked  the  article  titled 
"Educated ...  for  Life."  Like  Mr.  Grasso  and  Ms.  Dodd,  I,  too, 
started  WPI  with  plans  that  have  changed.  I  graduated  in  1992 
with  distinction  with  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering — 
aerospace.  I  went  on  to  work  as  an  engineer  for  10  years,  when 
I  decided  to  get  into  education.  I  currently  teach  physics  at 
Central  High  School  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  I  am  a  firm  believer 
in  the  WPI  Plan  and  project-based  learning,  and  try  to  use  these 
ideas  in  my  classes  to  truly  engage  and  educate  my  students. 
Thank  you  for  the  coverage  of  education  in  the  magazine,  and 
thank  you  to  WPI  for  the  support  it  gives  to  K-12  schools. 

David  Andrade  92 

Stratford,  Conn. 


Campus  Trivia 

I  enjoy  reading  Transformations.  In  the  caption  in  the  photo 
on  page  48  (Fall  2006j,  you  did  not  mention  the  athletic 
building  or  Sanford  Riley  Hall  in  the  foreground.  As  you 
may  know,  the  lower  level  appendage  on  this  building  was 
the  kitchen,  which  featured  a  cafeteria- 
style  dining  hall  for  the  freshmen  housed 
in  Sanford  Riley  Hall.  This  dining  room 
also  had  folding  doors  that  could  open 
up  to  a  common  room.  The  two  rooms 
together  were  used  for  banquets  and  the 
tables  and  chairs  could  be  removed  from 
the  dining  room  for  dances. 

I  lived  in  this  "fairly  new"  dorm  as  a 
freshman  in  1939  and  for  the  three  years 
that  followed.  I  worked  there  for  my  room 
and  board,  first  as  a  janitor,  then  busboy, 
and  then  monitor.  How  times  have 
changed!  There  was  only  one  telephone  in 
the  whole  dorm.  It  was  a  pay  phone  in  the 
lobby  by  the  front  door.  As  monitor,  I 
would  sit  at  the  desk  from  7  to  1 1  p.m.  with  the  duty  of 
answering  the  phone,  finding  the  student  whose  call  it  was, 
trying  to  control  discipline,  and  locking  the  doors  at  1 1, 
when  all  the  students  were  supposed  to  be  in. 

During  the  four  years  I  was  at  WPI,  (really  three  and 
one-half  years,  as  we  went  all  summer — without  air  condi- 
tioning— due  to  the  war)  Alden  Memorial  was  built  and  the 
bridge  over  Institute  Road  was  completed. 

Ralph  Smith  43 

Kennebunkport,  Maine 

Notes  on  a  View 

Thank  you  for  another  fine  issue  of  Transformations.  Each 
issue  lets  this  older  alumnus  share  in  the  excitement  that  is 
WPI.  It  is  the  one  periodical  I  read  cover  to  cover.  However, 
allow  me  a  quibble  or  two  about  the  caption  for  the  campus 
picture  on  page  48  ("An  Early  View").  You  date  the  picture 

(continued  on  page  63) 


Mirror,  Mirror 

Correction:  In  the  aerial  photograph  on  page  48  of  the  Fall 
2006  Transformations,  the  order  of  buildings  should  have 
been  listed  from  the  right.  Additionally,  the  open  space  is 
on  the  west  side  of  campus,  not  the  east. 


Transformations    \   Summer  2  00 


A    message    from    President    Berkey 

No  Limits:  The  Entrepreneurial  Spirit  at  WPI 


At  a  recent  alumni  gathering  in  New  York,  I  spent  some  time 
talking  with  a  few  young  graduates  who  described  themselves, 
somewhat  ruefully,  as  the  "black  sheep"  of  WPI.  When  I  asked 
them  why,  they  replied,  "Well,  we  have  degrees  in  engineering, 
but  we're  not  practicing  engineers."  What  were  these  "black 
sheep"  doing  instead?  They  were  starting  new  businesses,  forming 
alliances  among  corporations,  and  serving  as  consultants  on 
Wall  Street.  Black  sheep,  indeed! 

In  fact,  these  young  alumni  were  carrying  on  one  of  WPI's 
proudest  and  most  enduring  traditions — that  of  entrepreneurship, 
which  has  been  woven  into  the  very  fabric  of  our  university  since 
its  founding,  when  local  entrepreneur  John  Boynton  pledged  his 
life's  savings  to  realize  his  dream  of  a  school  for  future  engineers. 
For  more  than  140  years,  young  men  and  women  have  come  to 
WPI  filled  with  the  entrepreneurial  spirit,  capable  of  imagining 
great  things,  and  committed  to  achieving  their  vision. 

Exciting  stuff,  the  principles  of  entrepreneurship.  They  infuse  much 
of  the  WPI  experience  today,  where  students  and  faculty  engage 
with  the  world  around  them,  seeking  to  understand  its  challenges, 
conceive  what  might  be  done,  and  then  make  solid  progress 
toward  their  goals.  Beyond  excitement,  however,  entrepreneurship 
requires  good,  old-fashioned,  roll-up-your-sleeves  hard  work.  It 
demands  strength  of  character,  the  ability  to  persevere  in  the  face 
of  obstacles,  a  healthy  disdain  for  shortcuts,  and  the  ability  to  lead 
others  around  a  common  goal.  These,  too,  are  qualities  that  the 
WPI  community  possesses  in  abundance. 

What  the  "black  sheep"  also  illustrated  so  beautifully  was  the 
power  of  a  WPI  education — rooted  in  engineering  and  science, 
and  infused  with  our  university's  signature  know-how — to  provide 
excellent  preparation  for  almost  any  field  of  endeavor.  WPI 
graduates,  as  you  will  see  throughout  this  issue  of  Transformations, 
enjoy  putting  their  knowledge  to  work  in  a  splendid  array  of 
interesting,  meaningful,  and  often  surprising  ways.  Individually 
and  collectively,  their  stories  demonstrate  that  there  are  no 
limits  to  where  a  WPI  education  can  take  you. 

Equally  immune  to  limits  are  WPI's  faculty,  who  pursue  research 
that  has  the  potential  to  affect  billions  of  people  around  the 
globe — research,  in  other  words,  that  matters.  WPI  faculty  are 
not  motivated  by  esoteric  questions  whose  answers  can  only  be 
appreciated,  or  even  understood,  by  a  small  few.  Rather,  they  are 


driven  by  the  desire 
to  make  a  difference, 
to  assert  their  intellec- 
tual leadership  and 
entrepreneurial  spirit, 
and  to  create  some- 
thing that  will  have  a 
lasting  impact  in  the 
lives  of  others. 

Manifesting  physically 
the  entrepreneurial 

spirit  at  WPI  is  our  new  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center 
at  Gateway  Park.  This  marvelous  facility,  which  promises  to  bring 
a  new  vibrancy  to  both  WPI  and  the  City  of  Worcester,  is  now 
home  to  a  thriving  community  of  innovators  and  idea  makers  from 
academia  and  industry.  You  are  probably  familiar  with  the  old 
saying  about  the  Red  Sox,  "25  players,  25  cabs."  The  same  could 
easily  have  been  said  about  the  traditional  model  of  scientific 
research — 25  investigators,  25  labs.  Today,  Gateway  Park  is 
helping  to  transform  this  way  of  thinking,  with  open  and  flexible 
spaces  that  invite  a  new  kind  of  teamwork  and  spark  creative 
collisions  among  great  minds. 

Expressions  of  entrepreneurship  abound  across  WPI — and  through 
WPI,  to  the  community  around  us.  As  I  write  this  message,  the 
WPI  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation  is  hosting 
its  summer  Teens  Discovering  Entrepreneurship  Day  Camp.  WPI 
undergraduates  and  local  high  school  students  are  enjoying 
Dinners  with  Entrepreneurs  throughout  the  year.  And  to  help  put  to 
work  the  knowledge  they  have  gained  in  their  major,  many  WPI 
students  are  now  pursuing  minors  in  entrepreneurship.  Of  course, 
these  represent  a  mere  few  of  the  many  opportunities  to  understand 
and  practice  entrepreneurship  at  WPI. 

More  than  40  years  ago  now,  Robert  F.  Kennedy  said,  "There 
are  those  who  look  at  things  the  way  they  are,  and  ask  why? 
I  dream  of  things  that  never  were,  and  ask  why  not?"  When  I 
contemplate  these  words,  I  cannot  help  but  think  of  WPI,  for  ours 
is  a  community  brimming  with  people  inspired  by  why  not?  The 
great  WPI  difference  is  that  ours  is  also  a  community  with  the 
talent,  creativity,  and  conviction  of  purpose  to  turn  the  dream 
into  reality.  I  cannot  think  of  a  finer  model  for  American  higher 
education  today. 


For  more  than  140  years,  young  men  and  women  have  come  to 
WPI  filled  with  the  entrepreneurial  spirit,  capable  of  imagining 
great  things,  and  committed  to  achieving  their  vision. 


4     Transformations    \    Summer  2007 


^ 

Jt 

CampusBuzz 


FIRST  in  Robotics 

WPI  Develops  Nation's  First  Robotics 
Engineering  Program  and  Sponsors  World 
Champion  Robotics  Team 

WPI  will  offer  the  nation's  first  bachelor's  degree  program  in 
robotics  engineering  starting  this  fall.  The  new  major  grows  out 
of  an  increasing  demand  for  robots  and  robotics  systems  to  meet 
national  needs  in  such  areas  as  defense  and  security,  elder  care, 
automation  of  household  tasks,  customized  manufacturing,  and 
interactive  entertainment,  and  also  responds  to  the  escalating 
interest  in  robots  among  young  people. 

In  the  program,  to  be  offered  jointly  by  the  Computer  Science, 
Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering,  and  Mechanical  Engineering 
departments,  students  will  receive  a  firm  grounding  in  the  funda- 
mentals of  these  three  fields,  and  learn  to  apply  them  to  design  and 
build  robots  and  robotic  systems  for  a  wide  variety  of  emerging 
applications.  Graduates  will  be  well-prepared  for  careers  in  the 
rapidly  expanding  robotics  industry  and  for  graduate  work  in  the 
field.  The  program  also  includes  an  entrepreneurship  course  to 
ensure  that  students  have  the  skills  they  need  to  turn  their  robotics 
ideas  into  viable  businesses. 

The  robotics  engineering  program  will  draw  on  the  expertise  of 
more  than  20  associated  faculty  and  staff  members  and  capitalize 
on  the  university's  involvement  in  high-profile  robotics  competitions 
over  the  past  15  years. 

One  of  those  competitions  is  the  international  FIRST  (For  Inspiration 
and  Recognition  of  Science  and  Technology)  robotics  contest. 
This  year,  the  robotics  team  from  the  Massachusetts  Academy  of 


Mathematics  and  Sciences  at  WPI,  which  is  sponsored  by  WPI, 
walked  away  with  the  championship  trophy. 

Student  teams  built  their  robots  over  a  period  of  just  six  weeks. 
They  were  required  to  meet  design  specifications  that  included 
rigid  overall  weight  and  size  limits,  but  otherwise  left  room  for 
substantial  innovation. 

The  WPI/Mass  Academy  team  is  one  of  only  five  that  have 
remained  continuously  involved  in  FIRST  since  the  competition 
was  started  by  WPI  alumnus  Dean  Kamen  in  1992. 


Meet  the  Class  of  2011 


820  students — the  largest  class  to  date 

3.6  average  GPA;  average  rank  in  the  top  14  percent 

45  valedictorians  and  salutatorians 

Average  SAT  1 284 

26  percent  women 

33  states  and  34  countries  represented 

Top  majors  include:  engineering  (undecided), 
mechanical  engineering,  electrical  and  computer 
engineering,  computer  science,  biology 


Trans  formations    \    Summer   2007     5 


MoreBuzz 


Basketball's  Cain  Takes 
Top  Honor 

Ryan  Cain  '07  was  awarded  the  2007  Josten's  Trophy  this 
spring,  recognizing  him  as  the  best  male  Division  III  basketball 
student-athlete. 

As  a  guard,  Cain  played  a  pivotal  role 
in  transforming  WPI's  men's  basketball 
team  into  a  regional  and  national 
powerhouse.  Over  the  past  four  years, 
the  team  has  had  an  impressive  89-20 
record,  has  won  four  straight  NEWMAC 
(New  England  Women's  and  Men's 
Athletic  Conference)  regular  season 
championships  and  two  NEWMAC 
tournament  titles,  and  appeared  in  the 
last  three  NCAA  Division  III  champion- 
ships. Cain,  named  NEWMAC  Player  of 
the  Year,  became  WPI's  all-time  leading 
scorer  during  the  regular  season  finale, 
finishing  his  career  with  1,813  points. 

Cain  became  the  first  player  during 
Head  Coach  Christopher  Bartley's  six 
years  at  WPI  to  be  named  a  preseason 
All-American  by  D3Hoops.com.  He 
earned  NEWMAC  Rookie  of  the  Year 
accolades  as  a  freshman,  was  chosen 
NEWMAC  Player  of  the  Year  as  a 

sophomore,  and  was  named  All-New  England  by  D3Hoops.com 

and  the  ECAC  as  a  junior. 


New  Voices  Turns  25 

Masque  and  the  Department  of  Humanities  and  Arts 

celebrated  the  25th  anniversary  of  New  Voices,  the  country's 
longest  continuously  running  university  new  plays  festival.  This 
year,  seven  plays,  all  written,  directed,  and  performed  by  members 
of  the  WPI  community,  were  chosen  for  the  festival.  More  than 
100  students  were  involved  in  this  year's  New  Voices  production. 


WPI  Wins  Alden  Award 

WPI  was  recently  honored  by  the  Colleges  of  Worcester 
Consortium  with  its  inaugural  Alden  Award  for  Excellence  in 
Higher  Education.  The  award  recognized  the  university's  commitment 
to  improving  the  lives  of  Worcester  residents  through  its  Worcester 
Community  Project  Center,  where  students  and  faculty  work  on  a 
sustained  planning  initiative,  open  space  planning,  and  renewable 
energy.  The  center  has  also  organized  and  hosted  three  major 
workshops  focused  on  sustainable  development  for  cities. 

"It's  an  honor  to  be  recognized,  especially  in  a  city  where  so  many 
colleges  are  deeply  engaged  in  projects  that  make  substantial 
contributions  to  the  people  of  our  city,"  says  Rob  Krueger,  director 
of  the  center  and  assistant  professor  in  the  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies  Division. 

The  award  is  named  after  George  I.  Alden,  WPI's  first  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering,  an  innovative  educator,  and  accomplished 
researcher  in  mechanics  and  hydraulics. 


WPI  Makes  the  SAT  Optional 

In  May,  WPI  became  the  first  nationally  ranked  science  and 
engineering  university  to  make  the  SAT  an  optional  requirement 
for  admissions. 


The  SAT-optional  policy,  which  takes  effect  for  students  applying 
for  admission  in  fall  2008,  has  been  adopted  by  many  liberal  arts 
colleges  and  research  universities  over  the  past  20  years.  While 
the  move  is  unprecedented  within  the  science  and  technology 
education  arena,  implementation  of  the  new  policy  is  consistent 
with  national  efforts  to  attract  a  broader  range  of  students  to 
science,  technology,  engineering,  and  math  disciplines — 
particularly  women  and  minorities. 


"The  SAT  may  capture  academic  aptitude,  but  aptitude  itself 
doesn't  necessarily  reflect  success  in  this  type  of  setting,"  says 
Kristin  Tichenor,  vice  president  for  enrollment  management  at  WPI. 
"The  students  who  are  most  successful  at  WPI  are  those  with  high 
motivation  levels,  willingness  to  take  initiative,  and  creativity  in 
solving  problems." 

WPI  will  conduct  a  five-year  pilot  study  to  examine  the  academic 
performance  of  students  who  do  not  submit  SAT  scores,  compared 
to  those  who  do. 


6     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


New  Residence  Hall 
Construction  Begins; 
Alumni  Field  Renovated 

It's  an  exciting  time  at  WPI,  as  various 
construction  projects  shape  the  future  of  the 
campus  for  years  to  come. 

This  spring,  construction  began  on  a  232-bed, 
apartment-style  student  residence  hall  between 
Boynton  and  Dean  streets,  as  well  as  an  adja- 
cent 189-space  parking  garage;  both  are  scheduled  to  open  in  the 
fall  of  2008.  The  residence  hall  will  feature  four-person  apartments 
with  full  kitchens,  living  rooms,  compartmentalized  bathrooms,  and 
single  and  double  bedrooms.  The  air-conditioned  building  will  also 
include  recreation  and  fitness  facilities,  technology  suites  on  each 
floor,  and  full  wireless  access.  It  will  be  the  first  major  residence 
hall  constructed  at  WPI  since  the 
completion  in  1985  of  Founders 
Hall.  The  building  was  designed 
by  Boston-based  Cannon  Design; 
the  general  contractor  is  Gilbane 
Building  Company. 

Also  this  spring,  renovations  began 
on  Alumni  Field.  The  project  includes 
an  infill-system  turf  field,  new  bleachers 


and  press  box  on  the  north  side  of  the  field,  a  new  scoreboard, 
and  a  new  field  lighting  system;  also,  the  existing  eight-lane  track 
will  be  resurfaced.  These  renovations  will  enhance  field  space  for 
varsity  field  hockey,  football,  soccer,  and  track  and  field,  while 
also  providing  an  improved  facility  for  club  sports,  intramural 
programs,  and  for  recreational  use  by  the  WPI  community.  The 
upgraded  Alumni  Field,  scheduled  to  be  completed  in  August, 
will  allow  WPI  to  host  championships  at  the  local,  regional, 
and  national  levels. 

This  fall,  the  WPI  community  will  enjoy  various  new  dining  options, 
including  a  Quiznos  sub  shop,  located  in  the  lower  level  of  the 
Campus  Center,  as  well  as  Outtakes,  a  convenience  store,  and  a 
pub-style  restaurant,  The  Goat's  Head,  both  located  in  Founders 
Hall.  Outfitted  with  six  plasma  screens  and  a  pool  table,  The 
Goat's  Head  will  provide  table  service  and  an  extensive  menu. 


NUCLEAR  ASSASSINS 


Students  Win  Popular  Science  Invention  Award 


MagicMouse,  a  three-dimensional  computer  mouse  designed  by 
a  team  of  five  WPI  undergraduates  as  part  of  a  Major  Qualifying 
Project,  was  one  of  10  inventions  honored  with  the  inaugural 
PopSci  Invention  Awards,  the  cover  story  in  the  June  2007  issue 
of  Popular  Science.  The  magazine,  which  has  a  circulation  of  1.4 
million,  selected  the  mouse  from  among  hundreds  of  submissions. 

Developed  by  seniors  Christian  Banker,  Michael  Cretella  Jr.,  Jeff 
DiMaria,  Jamie  Mitchell,  and  Jeffrey  Tucker,  the  mouse  is  designed 
to  permit  a  computer  user  to  control  and  manipulate  items  on  a 
computer  screen  just  by  pointing  at  the  monitor.  The  mouse  uses  an 
array  of  receivers  to  track  the  motion  of  a  tiny  ultrasonic  transmitter 
worn  on  the  index  finger  like  a  ring.  The  students,  all  electrical 
and  computer  engineering  majors,  were  advised  by  Brian  King, 
assistant  professor  of  electrical  and  computer  engineering. 

The  MagicMouse  is  a  true  3D  mouse.  Users  can  move  the  cursor 
about  the  screen  simply  by  pointing  their  index  finger.  Zooming  is 
achieved  by  moving  the  hand  nearer  to  or  farther  from  the  screen. 
Since  both  actions  can  be  done  simultaneously,  the  mouse  makes 


it  possible  to  work  easily  in  three 
dimensions  to  pan  and  zoom 
through  3D  maps,  for  example, 
or  manipulate  objects  in  computer- 
aided  design  (CAD)  drawing 
packages.  The  mouse  could  also 
make  game  play  more  realistic 
and  interactive,  much  as  the  novel 
3D  remote  on  the  new  Nintendo 
Wii  game  console  has  done. 


POPULAR 
SCIENCE 

INVENTIONS 

OF THE YEAR 

Meet  the  Geniuses  Who've 
Built  a  Better... 

>  Car  Engine 

>  Wall-Climbing  Machine 
•  Missile  Interceptor 

►  Velcro 

►  Bow&Arrow 

>  Stun  Gun 

►  Brick 
and 


The  students  plan  to  continue 
working  on  the  mouse  to  extend 
its  capabilities.  The  working 

prototype,  for  instance,  does  not  incorporate  the  functions  of 
the  traditional  mouse  buttons.  The  students  would  like  to  add 
technology  that  will  permit  the  user  to  perform  specific  functions 
using  gestures,  such  as  clicking  by  moving  the  finger  rapidly 
forward  and  backward,  and  clicking  and  holding  by  moving 
the  finger  forward  quickly,  then  stopping. 


Transformations    \    Summer  20  07     7 


MoreBuzz 


WPI  Completes  a  New  Home 
for  Life  Sciences  Research 
and  Development 


Two  years  after  breaking  ground, 


omeotthe  WPI 
■9-=  s-:  =   -=-. 
t  -  :   r  ;-e-:e;e- 


WPI  s  flagship 
district,  which  i 

9::-:-  :  :e.e 


Gateway  Park  wJ  open  at  an  opportune  time, 
coinciding  with  Massachusetts  Governor  Deval 
Patrick's  pledge  at  BIO2007  to  invest  $1  billion  to 
; ': —  :'e  "~  •.;:■:"  z  :--r:~  ~ :  :;■  :e-e  ::~6" 


initiatives  over  the  next  10  years  through  the  newly  developed 
Massachusetts  Life  Sciences  Initiative. 

The  Lite  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  merges  a  new 
laboratory  structure  with  a  former  industrial  building,  providing 
space  for  faculty  offices,  the  headquarters  of  WPI  s  Corporate 
and  Professional  Education  Division,  meeting  rooms,  and  a  cafe. 

In  May,  the  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce  awarded  Gateway 
Park  LLC  the  2007  Excellence  in  Economic  Development  Award 
•;-  .--•"   :-  i.z.zz-  e-::-:-  :  ze-e  ::~r--    ~ - -.   ;■•■:-:    e::> 
nizes  the  partnership  between  WPI  and  the  Worcester  Business 
Development  Corporation  and  their  commitment  to  sound, 
e :;::-:  zi^z    -  z- '%•<.-  -e-  9::- :~  :  ;e.e  cc~e"  "     ;: 
bolster  the  local  economy. 


www.wpi.edu/Admin/Kl  2 


8 


i-.mer  200, 


*   Commencement  2007 


WPI's  139th  Commencement  ceremony  was  held  on  Saturday, 
May  19,  in  Harrington  Auditorium.  Set  among  a  sea  of  black  and 
crimson  robes,  and  featuring  the  university's  new  regalia,  WPI 
dignitaries  awarded  653  degrees,  including  480  bachelor  of 
science  degrees,  152  masters  degrees  (1  35  master  of  science, 
8  master  of  engineering,  5  master  of  business  administration, 
and  4  master  of  mathematics  for  educators),  and  21  PhDs. 

Honorary  degrees  were  conferred  upon  keynote  speaker  Deborah 
Dunsire,  MD,  president  and  CEO  of  Cambridge,  Mass.-based 
Millennium  Pharmaceuticals,  Bernard  M.  Gordon,  founder  and 
chairman  emeritus  of  Analogic  Corp.,  who  is  known  as  "the  father 
of  analog  to  digital  conversion,"  and  Neil  deGrasse  Tyson, 
Frederick  P.  Rose  director  of  the  Hayden  Planetarium  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History  in  New  York  and  host 
of  the  PBS  television  series  NOVA  scienceNOW. 

In  her  address,  Dunsire  told  students  to  remain  true  to  growth  and 
integrity,  and  that  their  education  at  WPI  will  help  their  careers 
and  lives  flourish.  "Your  experiential,  project-based  learning  sets 
this  school  apart  in  wise  and  valuable  ways,"  she  said. 

As  part  of  the  Commencement  ceremony,  President  Dennis  Berkey 
awarded  the  WPI  Presidential  Medal  to  Lt.  Gov.  Tim  Murray,  a 
former  three-term  mayor  of  Worcester.  Murray  worked  to  promote 
the  city's  economic  development  and  the  advancement  of  new 
research  technologies  and  facilities — in  particular  Gateway  Park, 
home  of  WPI's  new  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center. 


Also  presented  was  the  Chairman's 
Exemplary  Faculty  Prize,  established 
this  year  through  the  personal 
philanthropy  of  Donald  K.  Peterson 
71,  current  chair  of  the  WPI  Board 
of  Trustees,  to  recognize  faculty 
members  who,  as  true  exemplars 
of  the  university's  highest  aspirations 
and  most  important  qualities,  excel 


in  all  relevant  areas  of  faculty  performance.  Two  prizes,  each  in  the 
amount  of  $10,000,  were  awarded  this  year  to  John  A  McNeill, 
assistant  professor  of  electrical  and  computer  engineering,  and 
Richard  D.  Sisson  Jr.,  professor  of  mechanical  engineering. 

In  his  closing  remarks,  President  Berkey  reminded  students  that 
lifelong  learning  is  "more  than  a  slogan  at  WPI.  It  is  a  habit  of 
mind  that  arises  from  the  experience  of  a  truly  excelent  education." 


WPI's  2007  Commencement 
marked  the  debut  of  new  regalia 
for  degree  candidates,  trustees 
and  the  president.  The  robes 
(black  for  bachelor's  and  master's 
degree  candidates,  crimson  for 
PhD  candidates)  featured  embroi- 
dered WPI  seals  on  the  front. 
Undergraduates  receiving  honors 
wore  cords  of  crimson  (distinction) 
or  gray  (high  distinction).  The  new 
presidential  and  trustee  robes  were 
crimson.  President  Berkey  wore  a 
new  Presidential  Medallion,  with 
the  WPI  seal  cast  in  silver  and  the 
names  and  years  of  service  of  all 
15  of  WPI's  presidents  engraved 
on  small  silver  plates  that  form 
links  in  the  chain.  Provost  ad 
interim  John  Orr  carried  a  new 
Academic  Mace,  a  42-inch-tall 
staff  made  from  fluted  cherry 
wood  topped  with  a  circular  silver 
pedestal  on  which  sits  a  large 
silver  medal  that  has  the  WPI  seal 
on  both  sides.  The  medallion  and 
mace  were  gifts  to  the  university 
from  President  Berkey  and  his 
wife,  Catherine. 


Clockwise  from  top  left,  Honorary  Marshal  John  Goulet  leads  the  Commencement  procession;  keynote  speaker  Deborah  Dunsire  leUs  yiuduutes 
to  "go  for  the  growth";  Lt.  Governor  Tim  Murray,  center,  is  awarded  the  WPI  Presidential  Medal;  Kelly  Osberg   07  reminisces  about  "My  WPI." 


MoreBuzz 


Students  Earn  Prestigious 
National  Accolades 

Several  WPI  students  were  honored  recently  with  prominent 
awards  and  scholarships  in  recognition  of  the  students' 
impressive  academic  achievements. 

Nicholas  S.  McBride  '07  was  named  a 
National  Institutes  of  Health  (NIH)-Oxford/ 
Cambridge  Biomedical  Research  Scholar. 
The  interdisciplinary  program  is  devoted 
to  the  training  of  up  to  six  outstanding 
American  students  in  biomedical  research 
leading  to  a  doctoral  degree  awarded  by 
the  University  of  Oxford  or  University  of 
Cambridge  in  the  United  Kingdom. 

McBride  was  active  in  research  and  extracurricular  activities 
during  his  time  at  WPI.  He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  the 
university's  biomedical  and  pre-health  societies,  and  Engineers 
Without  Borders,  a  nonprofit  humanitarian  organization  estab- 
lished to  partner  with  developing  communities  worldwide  to 
improve  their  quality  of  life.  For  his  senior  project,  McBride 
developed  cardiac  patches  that  regenerate  heart  tissue.  He  has 
also  conducted  research  at  Total  ReCord,  a  Worcester  biomedical 
firm,  as  well  as  the  Woods  Hole  Oceanographic  Institution. 

Lynn  Worobey  '08  was  named  a  Gold- 
water  Scholar  for  2007-08  by  the  Barry  M. 
Goldwater  Scholarship  and  Excellence  in 
Education  Foundation.  Charles  Gammal  III 

'08  was  also  recognized  by  the  foundation 
with  an  honorable  mention. 

Since  2002,  10  undergraduates  have  been 
named  Goldwater  Scholars;  this  is  the  seventh  straight  year  that 
at  least  one  WPI  student  has  won  the  prestigious  scholarship, 
which  covers  the  cost  of  tuition,  fees,  books,  room,  and  board 
up  to  a  maximum  of  $7500. 

At  WPI,  Worobey  has  conducted  research  in  biomedical  engineer- 
ing on  campus  and  as  part  of  a  National  Science  Foundation 
Research  Experience  for  Undergraduates  award  at  the  University 
of  Rochester  in  New  York.  She  is  currently  working  with  Australia's 
National  Science  Agency  in  Melbourne  to  develop  a  framework 
for  adapting  hands-on  science  education  programs  for  students 
with  special  needs. 


Promotions  and 
Appointments  at  WPI 

Arthur  Heinricher,  professor  of  mathematical  sciences,  has 
been  appointed  associate  dean  for  the  first  year  experience, 
a  new  position  created  to  oversee  and  coordinate  all  aspects 
of  the  academic  experience  for  first-year  students  at  WPI. 

Heinricher,  who  joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1992,  has  a  bachelor 
of  science  in  applied  mathematics  from  the  University  of  Missouri 
at  St.  Louis  and  a  PhD  in  mathematics  from  Carnegie  Mellon 
University.  At  WPI,  his  teaching  has  focused  on  first-  and  second- 
year  students.  He  has  been  director  of  the  university's  Center  for 
Industrial  Mathematics  and  Statistics  since  2003. 

Professor  Kent  Rissmiller  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Social  Sciences  and  Policy  Studies 
has  been  named  associate  dean  for  the 
Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies 
Division  (IGSD). 

Rissmiller  joined  the  faculty  in  1988,  with  a 
JD  degree  from  Franklin  Pierce  Law  Center 
and  a  PhD  in  political  science  from  Syracuse  University.  He  came 
to  WPI  after  a  year  of  teaching  at  New  Mexico  State  University. 
He  has  taught  American  government,  public  policy,  public  law, 
and  political  theory.  Throughout  his  time  at  WPI,  Rissmiller  has 
devoted  significant  effort  to  teaching  and  advising  IQP  projects 
within  IGSD.  He  has  advised  nearly  90  IQPs  throughout  the  world. 

President  Dennis  Berkey  announced  the  promotions  of  various 
members  of  the  university's  senior  leadership  team. 

Tracy  Hassett  has  been  promoted  to  vice  president  for  human 
resources.  Hassett,  a  Senior  Professional  in  Human  Resources 
(SPHR),  has  also  been  elected  assistant  secretary  of  the  corpo- 
ration. Linda  Carre  Looft  has  been  promoted  to  assistant  vice 
president  for  government  and  community  relations.  Stephanie 
Pasha  has  been  promoted  to  chief  of  staff  in  the  President's 
Office;  she  was  elected  secretary  of  the  corporation.  Jeffrey 
Solomon  has  been  promoted  to  executive  vice  president. 
Kristin  Tichenor  has  been  promoted  to  vice  president  for 
enrollment  management. 


10    Transformations    \    Summer  200  7 


All  WPI  students  do  homework.  But  only  Andy  Edwards  does  House  work,  too. 


One  of  the  nation's  youngest  elected  public  officials, 
20-year-old  Andrew  J.  Edwards  '09  is  serving  his  first  two- 
year  term  as  a  state  representative.  Last  year,  as  a  freshman, 
he  served  in  the  WPI  Student  Senate.  Now  this  biochemistry 
major  is  a  freshman  Democrat  in  the  New  Hampshire  State 
House,  where  he  sits  on  the  Science,  Technology,  and  Energy 
Committee  and  the  E-commerce  Advisory  Commission. 

"I  am  astounded  at  how  the  other  representatives  regard 
me,  often  one-third  their  age,  as  an  equal,"  Edwards  says. 
"I  receive  no  less  respect.  I'm  listened  to.  Some  of  my  fellow 
students  feel  that  young  people  have  no  voice  in  public  affairs. 
Well,  that  depends  on  how  active  you're  willing  to  be." 

In  2006,  after  deciding  he  wanted  to  do  more  than  just 
volunteer  for  a  campaign,  he  paid  the  $2  filing  fee  to  run 
for  the  House  of  Representatives,  and  saved  $500  to  seed 


his  campaign  by  working  the  3rd  shift  as  a  circuit  board 
laminator  at  a  local  electronics  plant. 

Emphasizing  the  E  of  Edwards,  his  platform  included 
education,  economy,  and  environment.  "I  also  highlighted  my 
values,  which  I  organized  as  A,  E,  I,  O,  and  U:  Accountability, 
Equality,  Investment,  Opportunity,  and  Unity."  It  worked. 
Running  as  one  of  10  Democrats  and  10  Republicans,  he 
won  one  of  10  seats. 

Essentially,  the  part-time  legislature  convenes  when 
Edwards  isn't  on  campus.  His  constituents  reach  him  on  his 
cell  phone  and  by  email.  "My  parents  were  flabbergasted 
when  I  told  them  my  plans,  but  they  didn't  worry  because 
they  believed  it  was  unlikely  I  would  be  elected,"  he 
remembers.  "Now  they're  truly  glad  for  me." 


0  « 


-■—    m 


Father  Knows  Best 

In  1961,  a  young  priest  was  charged  by  the  Worcester 
Diocese  with  establishing  a  Catholic  ministry  on  the  campuses 
of  the  area's  colleges.  The  Rev.  Peter  J.  Scanlon— known  to  all 
as  "Father  Pete"— became  WPI's  full-time  chaplain  in  1969. 
For  45  years  he  watched  over  thousands  of  college  students 
of  all  faiths.  He  welcomed  them  at  Orientation  with  a  hearty 
handshake,  and  sent  them  into  the  world  four  years  later 
with  his  benediction  at  Commencement.  In  between, 
he  helped  students  discover  themselv 


trom  active  ministry. 
(He  continues  in  a  part-time  position  as  Diocesan  Vicar  for  Colleges  and 
Universities.)  In  his  own  words,  "It's  time  to  put  the  old  car  in  the  garage 
and  step  into  a  newer,  smaller  model.  My  old  bones  tell  me  it's  time 
to  slow  down." 

Transformations  asked  WPI  alumni  to  share  their  memories  of  Fr.  Scanlon. 
The  sentiments  were  universal:  "He  was  a  friend,  mentor,  and  counselor 
to  all  students— not  just  the  Catholic  ones."  "He  talked  directly  to  us  and 
not  above  us."  "For  an  old  priest,  he  still  knew  what  it  was  like  to  be  a 
younq  person  out  on  his  own  for  the  first  time."i 

i 
Scanlon  wasja  friend  to  the  pioneering  women  in  WPI's  early  years  of 
coeducation.  They  recall  how  he  would  sweep  through  their  d<5rm  on  a 
Friday  night,'gather  up  all  the  lonely  souls  he  could  find,  and  escort  them 
to  a  fraternity  party.  Then  he  would  tactfully  disappear,  after  making 
sure  they  had  a  safe  way  to  get  home.  He  helped  WPI  students  find 
dates;  he  married  them;  and  when  their  children  reached  college 
age,  he  wiMehed  over  them,  too. 


By  Joan  Killough-Miller 


Without  Father  Pete,  Anne  McPartland  Dodd  '75 
and  Charlie  Dodd  '74  might  not  have  been  married. 
"I  went  to  the  bridal  shop  to  pick  up  my  dress,  and 
they  wouldn't  take  an  out-of-state  check.    Father  paid 
for  the  dress  and  I  wrote  the  check  to  him.  He  then 


Here  is  just  a  sampling  of  the  recollections  from  alumni.  Read  the  full  text  and  more  tributes  at  wpi.edu/+Transformation< 


He  was  a  huge  presence  (literally!)  who  encouraged 
me  to  think  about  the  intertwined  topics  of  academics, 
community  awareness,  and   religious  beliefs.  His  voice 
boomed  in  the  basement  of  Alden  Memorial,  echoing 
off  the  marble  walls,  making  us  all  pay  strict  attention. 

—Mark  Cioffi  '78 


As  chaplain  for  the  Worcester  Fire  Department,  he 
showed  such  concern  and  strength  of  character  in 
guiding  his  flock  through  the  horrific  time  after  the 
1999  Worcester  Cold  Storage  fire.  I  remember  him 
being  honored  to  wear  his  white  priest  robes  at  the 
nationally  televised  memorial  service.  In  the  midst 
of  death  and  mourning,  he  was  a  beaming 
symbol  of  hope. 

— Jennifer  Forsythe  '01 

One  story  still  stands  out:  After  giving  me  a  penance, 
he  sent  me  out  of  the  confessional  and  whispered 
for  me  to  meet  him  at  the  altar  rail  on  the  way  out. 
A  few  minutes  later,  he  came  out,  tapped  me  on  the 
shoulder,  and  took  me  to  the  back  of  the  church, 
where  a  young  lady  was  waiting.  After  making  the 
introductions,  Father  Pete  told  her,  "He  is  going  to 
call  you  and  you  are  to  tell  your  mother  that  I  said  it 
is  all  right."  Father  Pete  was  always  one  to  give  us 
assistance  in  all  matters  of  life! 

—Tom  Benoit  '66 


I  was  tasked  with  teaching  him  how  to  email.  Now, 
10  years  later,  I  still  get  his  weekly  meditations.  He 
mastered  the  medium  and  realized  the  potential  to 
reach  out  to  even  more  students. 


He  was  a  resource  for  our  daughters,  who  attended 
WPI  and  Holy  Cross.  They  are  both  graduated  now, 
but  believe  me,  I  slept  better  knowing  that  he  was 
watching  over  them.  And  it's  true  what  he  says: 
What  happens  in  Worcester  stays  in  Worcester.  We 
never  heard  a  word  from  him  about  their  less-than- 
exemplary  actions — if  there  were  any. 

—Anne  McPartland  Dodd  '75 


At  WPI,  I  began  to  discover  myself  and  my  religion. 
Father  Scanlon  would  send  out  a  weekly  email  that 
revolved  around  his  Sunday  morning  readings  and 
homilies.  Never  has  one  email  message  had  such  an 
impact  on  a  person  as  that.  He  related  everything 
to  life  at  WPI  and  in  turn  gave  it  a  new  meaning, 
every  week. 

—Christopher  O'Malley  '03 


Father  Pete  joined  some  of  us  to  form  the  first  Greek 
Alumni  Council,  back  in  the  '70s.  The  fact  is,  Father 
Pete  was  and  is  always  there  when  he  is  needed. 
The  good  that  he  has  done  will  be  a  lasting 
monument  to  his  devotion  and  dedication. 

—  R.  M.  Hooker,  Advisor  and  Regional 
President  Emeritus,  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 


Fr.  Scanlon  married  me  and  my  husband  (Kevin 
Duprey  '91).  I  have  kept  copies  of  his  weekly 
meditation  emails.  I  plan  on  printing  them  and 
creating  a  booklet  for  each  of  our  children,  which 
I  will  give  them  when  they  enter  college.  In  that 
way,  Fr.  Scanlon  will  help  guide  them  the  same  way 
he  guided  Kevin  and  me  in  our  college  years. 

— Teresa  Cordeiro  Duprey  '92 


Transfo  rma  i  ie  ns 


■*J      I 


In  densely  packed  settlements  on  the  fringes  of 
Cape  Town,  South  Africa,  over  a  million  people  live  in 
tin  shacks  connected  by  dirt  paths.  Most  residents  have  no 
water,  electricity,  or  sanitation  in  their  homes.  Illnesses  such 
as  tuberculosis  and  HIV/AIDS  are  common.  Although  more 
than  half  of  the  settlements'  residents  are  employed,  the  vast 
majority  experience  extreme  poverty  and  don't 
have  enough  food  from  day  to  day. 

These  sprawling  settlements  represent 
some  of  the  most  visible  scars  from  nearly 
four  brutal  decades  of  apartheid.  They  also  are 
the  focal  points  for  the  newest  project  center 
within  WPI's  far-ranging  Global  Perspective 
Program,  part  of  the  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies  Division  (IGSD).  The  first 
team  of  students  will  travel  to  Cape  Town 
this  fall. 

In  a  place  where  30  people  often  share  one  toilet,  homes 
flood  during  heavy  rains,  and  people  are  frequently  injured 
or  killed  by  the  few  existing  hazardous  household  electrical 
connections,  the  first  Cape  Town  IQPs  will  focus  on  such 
practical  needs  as  an  environmental  community  center,  recre- 
ation fields,  and  other  public  facilities.  Students  will  docu- 


L — 1     ^  .  -LL-^-fTT  A 


ment  transportation  hazards  for  settlement  residents  and  help 
make  transportation  safer  and  more  efficient.  They  will  also 
create  options  for  sanitary  and  prosperous  sidewalk  meat 
markets,  a  critical  livelihood  for  many  in  the  area. 

Scott  Jiusto,  director  of  the  Cape  Town  Project  Center 
and  an  assistant  professor  in  IGSD,  hammered  out  details  of 
these  and  other  IQPs  when  he  traveled  to 
Cape  Town  in  May  to  meet  with  local  project 
coordinator  Basil  Tommy  of  the  City  of  Cape 
Town  Planning  Department.  Tommy  intro- 
duced Jiusto  to  those  working  on  housing, 
environment,  community  development,  and 
other  aspects  of  sustainable  development  in 
Cape  Town,  including  city  officials,  project 
developers,  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs),  and  academics. 

"I  met  many  dedicated  people  working 
to  address  daunting  challenges  with  an  optimism  that  inspires 
me,"  Jiusto  says.  "Their  circumstances  are  sobering,  and  they 
are  keenly  interested  in  taking  the  next  practical  steps." 

The  settlements'  many  development  needs,  coupled 
with  student  interest,  convinced  IGSD  dean  Rick  Vaz  that 
the  new  Cape  Town  Project  Center  should  open.  "We  have 


14     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


net  many  dedicated  people  working 
address  daunting  challenges  with  an 
timism  that  inspires  me." 

— Scott  Jiusto 

seen  increasing  student  interest  for  projects  in  the  developing 
world,"  says  Vaz,  "and  for  projects  making  a  difference, 
whether  in  the  environment,  energy,  water,  public  health, 
or  quality  of  life  generally." 

WPI  project  centers  in  Bangkok  and  Namibia — established 
in  1988  and  2002,  respectively — have  seen  steady  increases 
in  student  applications,  notes  Vaz.  In  2003,  14  percent  of 
students  applying  for  an  off-campus  IQP  selected  a  site  in 
the  developing  world  as  their  top  choice.  By  2006,  that 
number  had  jumped  to  over  30  percent. 

In  addition  to  students'  eagerness  to  help  in  developing 
countries,  WPI  enjoys  strong  ties  with  African  nations,  thanks 
to  the  work  of  Susan  Vernon-Gerstenfeld,  director  of  acad- 
emic programs  and  planning  in  IGSD,  and  her  husband, 
management  professor  Arthur  Gerstenfeld.  The  two  have  long 
promoted  business  relationships  between  WPI  and  Africa, 
and  they  played  a  central  role  in  establishing  the  Namibia 
Project  Center,  for  which  Gerstenfeld  serves  as  co-director. 

With  grants  from  the  U.S.  Department  of  Education, 
the  Gerstenfelds  launched  the  annual  WPI  U.S. -Africa 
Business  Conference  in  2004.  Most  recently,  they  introduced 
their  IGSD  colleagues  to  government  officials,  educators,  and 
others  in  South  Africa's  legislative  capital  of  Cape  Town. 

"South  Africa's  economic  health  is  key  to  the  develop- 
ment of  Africa's  southern  cone,"  says  Vernon-Gerstenfeld, 
who  laid  the  groundwork  for  the  Cape  Town  Project  Center. 
This  region  includes  South  Africa,  Namibia,  Zimbabwe, 
Mozambique,  and  Botswana,  for  which  "South  Africa  is 
a  huge  economic  engine.  For  example,  Namibia  and 
Zimbabwe  rely  heavily  on  South  Africa  for  electricity  and 
other  services." 

"No  other  university  has  what  we  have  started  in  Africa," 
says  Gerstenfeld,  who  reports  that  WPI  will  receive  a  two- 
year,  $200,000  Department  of  Education  grant  to  build  and 
expand  WPI  programs  in  Africa. 

IGSD  announced  the  Cape  Town  Project  Center  in 
2006,  noting  that  IQPs  would  focus  on  energy  resources, 
water  conservation,  and  the  provision  of  housing,  health  care, 
and  other  issues  of  sustainability  to  underdeveloped  areas. 
"The  student  response  was  overwhelming,"  says  Vaz.  Fifty 
applications  were  submitted  for  24  spots. 

The  students  who  will  do  their  IQPs  in  Cape  Town  major 
in  a  wide  variety  of  subjects,  notes  Natalie  Mello,  director 
of  global  operations  in  IGSD — everything  from  mechanical 
engineering  to  interactive  media  and  game  development, 
actuarial  math  to  fire  protection.  "In  the  spirit  of  the  IQP, 
each  student  will  delve  into  disciplines  divergent  of  their 
majors,"  says  Mello.  "And  they  will,  of  course,  work  in  teams." 


Pierre  de  Galbert  '02  was  convinced  that  his  lesson  plan — the  very  first 
one  he  put  together — was  flawless. 

Teaching  math  and  computer  skills  to  students  in  Namibia,  the  WPI  alum 
wanted  to  begin  the  year  with  an  easy  task — he  would  show  his  class 
how  to  make  a  folder  on  their  respective  computers  to  save  their  work  for 
the  upcoming  year.  Unfortunately,  de  Galbert's  well-thought-out  plan  hit 
a  snag  when  he  saw  his  students  waving  the  computer  mouses  in  the  air. 

"Most  of  them  had  never  seen  a  computer  before,"  he  says,  reflecting 
on  the  experience.  "I  realized  my  lessons  plans  were  a  bit  ambitious." 

De  Galbert  returned  to  Worcester  this  spring  to  chat  with  students  travel- 
ing to  Cape  Town,  the  site  of  WPI's  newest  project  center.  He  spoke 
about  his  experiences  abroad,  which  include  two  years  in  Namibia  and 
one  year  in  Rwanda.  He  now  lives  and  works  in  Niger,  having  earned 
this  spring  a  master's  degree  in  international  education  policy  from 
Harvard's  Graduate  School  of  Education. 

While  telling  the  WPI  project  teams  about  the  people,  history,  and 
culture  of  South  Africa,  de  Galbert  also  encouraged  students  to  make 
the  most  of  their  time  in  Cape  Town.  "The  more  you  put  yourself  out 
there,  the  more  you're  going  to  get  back,"  he  advised. 

De  Galbert  grew  up  in  France  and  came  to  the  United  States  to 
attend  WPI  after  looking  for  a  school  with  a  strong  computer  science 
program  and  a  project-based  approach  to  learning.  As  a  CS  major,  he 
took  advantage  of  WPI's  Global  Perspective  Program,  and  traveled  to 
Denmark  and  California  for  his  IQP  and  MQP,  respectively.  De  Galbert 
says  he  was  bitten  by  the  travel  bug  and  after  graduation,  he  spent 
two  months  in  Asia  before  moving  to  Namibia  for  two  years. 

"Living  and  working  abroad  pushes  you  out  of  your  comfort  zones," 
he  says,  "and  that's  a  good  thing." 

Now  in  Niger,  working  with  the  Ministry  of  Education  to  improve 
school  management  tools,  de  Galbert  encourages  all  WPI  students 
to  take  advantage  of  the  university's  global  travel  opportunities. 
"Maybe  this  is  a  once-in-a-lifetime  experience  for  you,"  he  told  the 
students.  "Maybe  it's  the  start  of  a  new  life,  like  it  was  for  me." 


Adds  Jiusto,  "I  feel  we  have  a  lot  to  learn  and  to  gain 
from  working  with  the  resourceful  and  creative  people  of 
Cape  Town,  and  they  are  excited  about  the  students'  arrival. 
I  think  WPI  can  play  a  helpful  role  there." 


Photos  provided  by  Pierre  de  Galbert  '02,  Lindsey  Sturgis  '08,  and  Amanda  Tichy  '08. 


Trans  formations    \    Summer  2007     15 


Investigations 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Of  Resources  and  Opportunities 


Why  do  some  companies 

thrive  and  grow  like  well-tended 

plants,  while  others  bloom  and 

fade  like  cut  flowers?  How  do 

some  firms  manage  to  adapt  to 

shifts  in  technology  and  the  ebb 

and  flow  of  market  demand, 

while  others  gradually  become 

footnotes  in  corporate  history? 


Erwin  Danneels,  associate  protessor  or  management  at  VCTI,  has  been 
pondering  questions  like  these  for  a  number  or  years.  As  an  authority  on  the 
link  between  product  innovation  and  organizational  renewal,  his  insights  help 
executives  think  more  clearly  about  the  challenges  and  benefits  of  exploring 
new  technologies  and  new  markets,  and  the  lost  opportunities  that  result  from 
not  making  the  most  of  their  assets. 

Having  conducted  up-close  field  studies  of  individual  companies  and  large- 
scale  surveys  of  American  public  manufacturing  firms  (his  latest  project  is  funded 
by  the  National  Science  Foundation),  Danneels  says  he  sees  the  process  of  new 
product  development  as  a  sort  of  continuum  where  the  effort  and  risk  depend  on 
whether  firms  can  exploit  existing  competencies  or  whether  they  must  develop 
new  ones.  Exploiting  only  existing  competencies  is  the  easiest  route,  but  does 
the  least  to  propel  a  company  forward  and  shield  it  from  environmental  changes. 
Exploring  a  new  technology  and  a  new  customer  base  entails  significant  risk. 
The  middle  route  is  most  attractive:  leveraging  an  existing  competence  to 
explore  either  a  new  technology  or  a  new  market. 

In  articles  published  in  2002  and  200~  in  the  Strategic  Management 
Journal,  Danneels  reports  on  an  in-depth  study  of  five  manufacturing  firms. 
One  of  those  companies  (dubbed  "Cheman")  developed  a  technology  that  fuses 
a  silicon-based  coating  onto  stainless  steel,  making  the  metal  inert.  Using  the 
technology,  the  company  created  new  products  that  were  popular  with  existing 
customers,  but  it  realized  that  the  technology  could  have  a  broad  range  of 
applications  in  other  markets. 

"Cheman"  had  made  the  first  step  to  leverage  its  technology  to  new  markets: 
it  was  able  to  mentally  "de-link"  the  technology  from  the  products  themselves  and 
to  see  it  as  fungible.  The  company  believed  the  technology  could  become  the  root 
of  a  host  of  potential  applications,  but  it  faltered  in  building  the  resources  necessary 
to  serve  those  markets,  such  as  developing  a  deep  understanding  of  prospective 
customers  and  building  a  sales  force  with  the  necessary  access  and  expertise.  Though 
executives  were  sure  the  technology  represented  a  path  to  virtually  unlimited 
growth,  their  lack  of  knowledge  of  how  to  address  other  markets  and  their  hesita- 
tion to  invest  adequate  funds  proved  insurmountable  barriers  to  extracting  the 
potential  value  from  their  new  technology. 

"Chemans"  experience  illustrates  a  common  occurrence,  Danneels  says.  "Many 
firms  sit  on  technologies  that  they  could  do  more  with,  by  developing  more  prod- 
ucts or  selling  the  intellectual  property,  but  they  don't  have  the  marketing  acumen 
to  know  which  markets  to  address  or  how  to  do  it." 

Danneels  says  companies  should  carefully  consider  which  resources  and  com- 
petencies they  have,  and  how  they  can  be  applied  profitably.  One  set  of  primary 
resources  and  competencies  is  the  technologies  that  underlie  their  products  and  the 
related  engineering  and  manufacturing  knowledge  required  to  turn  them  into  prod- 
ucts. The  other  set  relates  to  the  company's  ability-  to  serve  certain  customers — its 
brand,  its  knowledge  of  its  customers,  and  its  sales  and  distribution  channels. 

Danneels  says  these  can  add  up  to  both  an  avenue  for  growth  and  a  strait- 
jacket.  Developing  and  capitalizing  on  company  resources  is  like  walking  down 


1  6     Transformations    |    Summer  200~ 


^llf; 


•-** 


9   <?    9    <?   <7    «   «? 


a  path,  he  says.  The  farther  down  the  path  the  company  travels,  the  more  likely 
it  is  to  continue  and  the  less  attractive  it  becomes  to  consider  alternatives. 

"You  must  explore — that  is,  develop  new  resources  and  competencies,    he  savs. 
"Even  if  you  are  doing  well  right  now,  you  could  be  missing  opportunities  to  do 
even  better.  In  addition,  just  exploiting  current  competencies  puts  you  at  risk  should 
an  environmental  event  make  your  technology  or  your  market  competence  obsolete. 

"Your  historical  choices  constrain  your  future  choices,    he  adds.  To  overcome 
this  "path  dependency,"  firms  need  what  Danneels  calls  second-order  competencies. 
Those  are  driven  by  the  ability  to  evaluate  and  pursue  other  opportunities,  which 
is  dependent,  in  turn,  on  marketing  and  R&D  competencies  (the  competencies 
to  serve  new  markets  and  build  new  technologies).  Danneels's  research  is  devoted 
to  understanding  these  second-order  competencies,  the  kinds  of  organizational 
cultures  and  top  management  teams  that  support  them,  and  how  thev  affect 
product  innovativeness  and  financial  performance. 

Danneels  says  that  new  research  based  on  his  own  work  shows  that  inexperi- 
enced entrepreneurs  tend  to  focus  on  only  one  opportunitv,  while  serial  entrepre- 
neurs consider  multiple  opportunities  and  markets  before  thev  dive  in — which 
leads  to  greater  success.  "New  entrepreneurs  develop  or  license  a  technology-,  but 
their  horizon  of  market  opportunities  is  limited  by  their  industrv  background." 
he  says.  "They  often  stick  with  what  they  know,  which  is,  per  se,  not  such  a  bad 
thing — it's  just  that  it  may  lead  them  to  make  suboptimal  choices.  Repeat  entre- 
preneurs develop  a  second-order  marketing  competence  which  gives  them  a 
broader  appreciation  of  the  options." 

Getting  the  most  out  of  technologies  is  important,  Danneels  savs,  because 
when  a  technologys  potential  lies  fallow,  the  result  is  more  than  lost  revenue. 
"There  is  a  lost  societal  benefit,"  he  notes.  "If  you  have  a  technology  that  could 
be  used  in  different  applications  and  customers  would  be  willing  to  pav  for 
products  that  use  that  technology,  it  shows  there  is  a  benefit  not  being  realized. 
And  the  sum  of  all  of  those  benefits  is  our  welfare. 


word  proce. 


Transformations    \    Summer  200        17 


The  Spirit  of 

Entrepreneurship 

atWPI 


By  Eileen  McCluskey 


Imagine  a  handheld  device  that  lets  clinicians  detect  early  signs  of  renal  failure, 
while  there  is  still  time  to  save  a  patient's  kidneys.  Now  imagine  that  the  same 
device  can  quickly  give  doctors  the  information  they  need  to  make  the  best 
possible  decisions  about  diagnostic  tests  and  treatment. 


Two  WPI  researchers  have  done  more  than  imagine 
such  technology;  they've  developed  a  working  prototype  and 
started  their  own  company,  Active  Surface  Technologies  Inc. 
(ASTI),  to  help  make  the  idea  a  reality. 

These  are  heady  days  at  the  university  as  faculty  work 
vigorously  to  transform  the  fruits  of  their  research  into  state- 
of-the-art  entrepreneurial  ventures.  In  fact,  across  WPI's 
disciplines,  well-trained,  creative  minds  turn  toward  taking 
inventions  from  laboratory  to  market. 

Hitting  them  out  of  the  (Gateway)  park 

Through  WPI's  Bioengineering  Institute  (BEI),  the  life 
sciences  are  playing  a  major  role  in  this  dramatic  trend.  In 
the  past  two  years  alone,  the  multidisciplinary  institute  has 
seen  the  launch  of  two  companies  from  its  ranks  of  faculty 


researchers.  BEI  recently  took  up  residence  in  the 
WPI  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at 
Gateway  Park,  which  is  fast  becoming  a  bustling 
hub  of  life  sciences  R&D. 

"BEI  acts  as  a  catalyst  for  taking  biomedical 
innovations  from  the  lab  bench  to  the  bedside," 
says  Grant  McGimpsey,  BEI  director  and  co-founder 
of  ASTI.  "We  identify  problems,  R&D  funding 
opportunities,  and  WPI  faculty  who  can  team  up 
to  address  challenges  with  inventions  that,  in  turn, 
may  have  commercial  value.  We  encourage  faculty 
to  enter  into  entrepreneurial  ventures,  and  we  seek 
partners  in  the  private  sector  who  can  help  BEI 
convert  its  growing  medical  technology  portfolio 
into  new  products." 


"Our  current  goal  is  to  get  a  prototype  onto  someone's  desk 
in  a  company  that  can  take  it  to  a  commercial  scale." 

—  Grant  McGimpsey 


1  8     Transformations    \   Summer   2007 


ice,  and  BEI  director  Gra 
re  the  founders  of  Active  Surface  Technologies  Inc.,  whici,  aims  to  market  the  handheld  technology. 


WPI  professors  and  ImagiSonix  co-founders,  from  left,  Peder  Pedersen  and  Jim  Duckworth  have  created 
a  portable  telemedicine  system,  with  the  help  of  research  assistant  Philip  Cordeiro  '97  (MS  '06). 


$h-H:*,*iiv     ... 


At  the  BEI  Center  for  Untethered  Healthcare,  for  exam- 
ple, faculty  collaborate  across  disciplines — chemistry,  electrical 
and  computer  engineering,  and  biomedical  engineering.  It  is 
from  this  center  that  ASTI  and  another  medical  device  venture 
were  recently  launched. 

ASTI  was  co-founded  in  2005  by  McGimpsey  and  BEI 
associate  research  professor  Christopher  Lambert,  who  serves 
as  chief  technology  officer.  The  company  is  developing  a 
battery-operated  handheld  device  that  takes  highly  accurate 
measurements  of  renal  disease  biomarkers  such  as  potassium, 


urea,  and  creatinine,  and  executes  two  measurement  tech- 
niques simultaneously  in  a  re-usable  sensor  module.  The 
combination  of  dual  detection  and  re-usable  format  allows 
continuous  self-calibration,  giving  the  ASTI  instrument  a 
significant  advantage  over  single-use  instruments  currently 
in  the  marketplace. 

The  second  venture  resulting  from  BEI,  ImagiSonix, 
was  incorporated  in  2006  by  Peder  Pedersen,  professor  of 
electrical  and  computer  engineering,  James  Duckworth, 
associate  professor  of  electrical  and  computer  engineering, 


2  O     Tr  a  n  sfo  rmations    \   Summer  2007 


The  ImagiSonix  on-the-fly  ultrasound  imaging  system 
could  save  lives  during  medical  transport — whether 
in  helicopters  or  ambulances. 


i 


and  Thomas  Szabo,  professor  of 
biomedical  engineering  at  Boston 
University.  Pedersen  serves  as 
president,  Duckworth  as  interim 
CEO,  and  Szabo  as  CTO. 

ImagiSonix  offers  a  portable, 
battery-powered  telemedicine  sys- 
tem with  ultrasound  imaging  that 
can  withstand  enough  heat,  dust, 
and  jostling  to  work  under  harsh 
conditions  in  remote  areas,  as  well 
as  in  emergency  transport  vehicles. 
Its  battery  operates  for  a  full  day 
without  recharging,  and  its  wire- 
less voice  and  video  communica- 
tion features  allow  specialists  at 
major  hospitals  to  assist  with 
diagnosis  in  real  time. 

"This  will  be  a  reconfigurable 
ultrasound  system,"  Pedersen  says. 
"The  components  are  not  perma- 
nently connected  to  one  another 
in  a  box,  but  instead  the  system 
is  made  up  of  an  embedded  com- 
puter, a  power  source,  ultrasound 
front  end  display,  physiological  sensors,  an  examination  cam- 
era, and  a  transducer.  This  allows  us  to  custom  configure  the 
system.  For  example,  it  can  be  integrated  into  a  pre-wired 
vest,  or  incorporated  into  a  medical  bag." 

Development  of  the  ImagiSonix  ultrasound  imaging 
system  was  funded  in  part  by  the  U.S.  Army's  Telemedicine 
and  Advanced  Technologies  Research  Center  (TATRC);  the 
U.S.  Army  Medical  Research  and  Materiel  Command,  which 
oversees  TATRC,  supported  early  R&D  on  the  ASTI  sensor 
device.  Both  start-ups  are  now  seeking  venture  funding. 


Identifying  diverse  markets 

"As  we  seek  venture  funding,  ASTI  is  focusing  on  the 
civilian  market,"  says  McGimpsey  Small  wonder.  The  renal 
dialysis  and  transplantation  market,  for  example,  amounts 
to  $20  billion  in  the  United  States  alone,  and  is  predicted 
to  exceed  $  1  trillion  worldwide  over  the  next  decade. 

Because  the  number  of  dialysis  treatments  has  been 
increasing  by  9  percent  annually,  ASTI  seeks  entree  into 
hospitals,  dialysis  clinics,  and  doctors'  offices,  where  easily 
interpretable  results  will  be  obtained  in  minutes  to  inform 
decisions  on  further  diagnostic  tests  or  treatment.  ASTI 
founders  also  see  promise  in  the  DNA,  biomarkers,  and 
drug  discovery  markets. 

"Our  current  goal  is  to  get  a  prototype  onto  someone's 
desk  in  a  company  that  can  take  it  to  a  commercial  scale," 
says  McGimpsey,  who  notes  that  ASTI  revenues  would  flow 
from  licenses  with  strategic  partners,  and  from  royalties 
based  on  unit  sales. 

ImagiSonix  sets  itself  apart  from  the  competition  with 
its  ability  to  function  under  rugged  field  conditions.  Further, 
because  the  system  will  include  a  new  form  of  3D  imaging 
that  captures  all  the  image  information  from  a  given  region 
of  the  body,  it  will  allow  remotely  located  medical  experts 
to  view  and  interpret  the  field-based  images  as  they  emerge. 
This  feature  also  enables  medical  experts  to  guide  the 
technician  as  the  scan  is  conducted,  thereby  reducing  the 
need  for  highly  trained  field  personnel. 

The  ImagiSonix  on-the-fly  ultrasound  imaging 
system  could  save  lives  during  medical  transport — whether 
in  helicopters  or  ambulances.  To  prove  this  point,  the 
start-up's  team  recently  began  working  with  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  Medical  Center  in  Worcester,  testing  the 
system  in  helicopters.  Another  field  study  with  the  Center 
for  Pre-Hospital  Care  in  Loma  Linda,  Calif,  slated  for 
this  fall,  will  evaluate  the  imaging  system's  usefulness 
in  disaster  and  rescue  situations. 

(continued  on  page  23) 


Transformations    \   Summer  2  007    21 


Bringing  Entrepreneurship  to  New  Levels  at  WPI 


When  it  comes  to  incubating  new  businesses,  the  Collaborative 
for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation  (CEI)  and  its  WPI  Venture 
Forum  act  as  a  virtual  hatchery  at  the  university.  Out  of  its  work- 
shops, networking  events,  competitions,  and  other  resources,  the 
CEI  can  lay  claim  to  having  helped  dozens  of  start-up  businesses 
in  the  last  15  years. 


company's  technology.  "Jeremy  and  Tom  started  out  as  students  in 
my  entrepreneurship  class,"  Schaufeld  says  proudly.  "It  was  a  joy 
to  work  with  them.  We'd  meet  informally  to  discuss  marketing 
plans  and  other  fundamentals  of  their  business  plan.  Mac  [Banks] 
encourages  all  of  us  in  the  Department  of  Management  to  work 
with  students  in  this  way.  It's  very  rewarding." 


Banks,  head  of  the  Department  Banks  also  works  to  institutionalize  entrepreneurship  at  WPI. 

jnagement,  professor  of  entrepre-  He  recently  incorporated  a  new  element  into  the  MBA  program's 

neurship  and  strategy,  and  CEI  director,  Graduate  Qualifying  Project,  through  which  students  have 

sees  the  broad  array  of  WPI  entrepre-  conducted  seven  technology  commercialization  studies.  Banks  says 

neurial  competitions  and  related  he  wants  to  use  this  "proof  of  concept  effort"  to  demonstrate  the 

programs  as  rich  learning  opportunities  tremendous  value  that  WPI's  MBA  students  can  add  to  faculty 

students,  faculty,  staff,  and  alumni.  research.  The  project  also  assists  the  technology  transfer  office 

lidating  the  market  for  business  by  identifying  potential  licensees  and,  in  some  cases,  developing 


students,  faculty,  staff,  and  alumni.  research.  The  project  also  assists  the  technolo 

lidating  the  market  for  business  by  identifying  potential  licensees  and,  in  sonm 

as,  writing  a  business  plan,  honing  plans  for  emerging  WPI-connected  businesses 
_  jtation  and  public  speaking  skills,  learning  about  inventors 

notebooks  and  IP  protection,  and  other  critical  business  basics,"  Banks  now  hopes  to  launch  a  new  MS  degre< 

he  says,  "are  key  components  for  success  in  launching  a  Technology  Commercialization  and  Entreprem 

technology  start-up — whether  for  oneself  or  for  one's  employer."  attract  students  who  want  to  start  a  business, 


The  WPI  suite  of  competitions  includes  the  course-based  Robert 
H.  Grant  Invention  Awards,  the  Strage  Innovation  Awards, 
the  Kalenian  Award  (for  technology  commercialization),  the 
CEI@WPI  ALL-OUT  Business  Plan  Challenge,  and  the  WPI 
Venture  Forum  Business  Plan  Competition. 


Banks  now  hopes  to  launch  a  new  MS  degree  program  called 
Technology  Commercialization  and  Entrepreneurship,  which  could 
attract  students  who  want  to  start  a  business,  become  inventors 
who  license  their  technology,  or  establish  a  career  in  technology 
transfer.  He  estimates  that  as  the  MS  program  gains  momentum, 
as  many  as  40  studies  could  be  conducted  by  students  annually. 


CEI@WPI  ALL-OUT  Business  Plan  Challenge,  and  the  WPI  At  the  undergraduate  level,  Banks  is  working  with  James  Hanlan, 

Venture  Forum  Business  Plan  Competition.  head  of  the  Humanities  and  Arts  Department,  as  well  as  other 

HUA  and  management  faculty,  to  create  an  arts  entrepreneurship 
The  Strage  Awards  have  inspired  several  student  start-ups.  William       program  for  students  interested  in  continuing  their  engagement  in 


Tulli  '05,  who  won  the  Strage  Award  in  2005,  founded  Dockum 
Engineering  with  classmate  Alexandra  Levshin  '05.  The  two  are 
pursuing  an  international  patent  for  their  motorcycle  one-wire 
harness,  which  controls  lights,  switches,  and  other  functions  while 
eliminating  the  need  for  fuses,  relays,  flashers,  load  equalizers, 
and  most  wires. 

Jeremy  Hitchcock  '04  founded  Dynamic  Network  Services  Inc. 
(DynDNS.com)  after  he  participated  in  several  CEI  competitions. 
Today,  Hitchcock  is  CEO  of  the  Internet  domain  name  system 
services  company;  Thomas  J.  Daly  '04  is  CTO. 

While  forming  DynDNS,  Daly  and  Hitchcock  worked  closely  with 
Jerry  Schaufeld,  visiting  professor  of  entrepreneurship  at  WPI,  to 
develop  their  business  plan,  analyze  the  market,  and  value  the 


the  arts  through  business  ventures. 

"Entrepreneurship  is  a  key  to  helping  the  U.S.  retain  and  expand 
its  advantage  in  the  global  marketplace,  through  innovation," 
Banks  says.  "WPI's  small  size  works  very  much  to  our  advantage, 
by  allowing  us  to  work  readily  across  disciplines.  It's  much  easier 
to  get  to  know — and  therefore  to  access — people  here  than  it  is 
at  larger  universities." 

"Entrepreneurship  coupled  with  science,  engineering,  and  the 
arts  is  the  perfect  marriage,"  says  Gina  Betti,  associate  director 
of  the  CEI.  "Entrepreneurs  want  to  commercialize  ideas.  Scientists, 
engineers,  and  artists  want  to  improve  society.  Combine  the  two 
mindsets  and  you  see  potent  results." 


"Entrepreneurship  is  a  key  to  helping  the  U.S.  retain  and  expand  its 
advantage  in  the  global  marketplace,  through  innovation.  WPI's  small 
size  works  very  much  to  our  advantage,  by  allowing  us  to  work 
readily  across  disciplines." 


— Mac  Ban! 


22     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


New  Company  Pulsing  with  Potential 

As  Transformations  was  going  to  press,  another  new  company 
based  on  the  fruits  of  funded  research  at  WPI  was  springing  to  life. 
Advanced  Body  Sensing,  like  ImagiSonix,  has  its  origins  in  the 
unfethered  healthcare  project  funded  by  the  U.S.  Army's  Telemedicine 
and  Advanced  Technologies  Research  Center  (TATRC). 


Initially,  the  company  will  market  a  wear- 
ble  pulse  oximeter  developed  by  Yitzhak 
Mendelson,  professor  and  interim  head  of 
the  Biomedical  Engineering  Department, 
and  James  Duckworth,  associate  professor 
of  electrical  and  computer  engineering. 
Mendelson  is  president  of  Advanced 
Body  Sensing  and  Duckworth  is  CEO. 


'     noninvasively  by  shining  red  and  infrared 
light  through  the  skin  and  measuring  how 
the  different  frequencies  are  absorbed 
blood.  Mendelson  and  Duckworth  developed 


and  the  thickness  of  three  quarters.  Designed  to  be  held  against 
soldiers'  foreheads  with  a  strap,  it  would  alert  medics  of  the  tell- 
tale drop  in  pulse,  respiration  rate,  and  blood  oxygen  associated 
with  a  serious  wound  or  injury.  It  would  also  permit  remote 
triage  by  indicating  which  injured  soldiers  were  most  in  need 
of  immediate  care. 


The  researchers  faced  two 
key  technical  challenges. 
To  minimize  power  use  and 
extend  battery  life,  they 
developed  an  improved 
optical  sensor  that  sends 
the  information  wirelessl; 
to  a  small  belt-mounted 
oximeter.  The  computer 
inside  the  oximeter  per- 
forms the  power-intensive 
jobs  of  signal  processing 
and  transmitting  data  to 
the  medic's  PDA  or  laptc 
computer.  To  eliminate 


I 


Graduate  student  Gary  Comtois  demonstrates 
the  pulse  oximeter  at  the  American  Telemedicine 
Association's  2006  conference. 


they  developed  sophisticated  signal  processing  . 

rithms  that  factor  in  data  from  embedded  accelerometers  that 

measure  body  movement  and  posture. 

At  press  time,  Advanced  Body  Sensing  was  close  to  lining  up  its 
first  order.  They  were  also  investigating  a  number  of  nonmilitary 
markets  for  the  device  (monitoring  the  health  of  firefighters,  miners, 
divers —  even  mountain  climbers)  and  exploring  ways  to  expand 
the  oximeter's  capabilities  by  enabling  it,  for  example,  to  measure 
changes  in  blood  volume  to  determine  if  someone  is  bleeding 
heavily. 


Tapping  WPI  resources 

While  the  ImagiSonix  team  prepares  to  meet  with  angel 
investors,  Pedersen  admits  with  a  wry  grin  that  "starting  a 
company  was  the  furthest  thing  from  our  minds  when  we 
began  this  research  almost  four  years  ago." 

But  when  it  came  time  to  interpret  their  inventions  as 
products,  the  scientists  knew  where  to  turn.  Pedersen  and 
Duckworth  tapped  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and 
Innovation,  which,  along  with  the  university's  Technology 
Transfer  Office,  works  to  strengthen  and  support  efforts  on  the 
part  of  faculty  and  students  to  turn  ideas  into  patents,  business 
plans,  and  investor-worthy  presentations.  And  McRae  (Mac) 
Banks,  head  of  the  Department  of  Management,  professor  of 
entrepreneurship  and  strategy,  and  CEI  director,  referred  Imagi- 
Sonix to  visiting  professor  of  entrepreneurship  Jerry  Schaufeld. 

"I  was  very  excited  to  work  with  Peder  and  Jim,"  says 
Schaufeld,  who  helps  emerging  executives  identify  potential 
markets  and  clarify  their  corporate  vision.  "I  screen  deals  with 
three  different  angel  investor  groups.  Because  of  that,  I  have 
ideas  about  how  to  improve  the  probability  of  success  in  these 


projects.  I  play  the  role  of  wearing  the  investor's  'green  visor' 
focus  on  the  issues  of  creating  sustainable  propositions." 

This  work,  says  Schaufeld,  "is  a  natural  extension  of  the 
management  department  at  WPI.  We  are  all  encouraged  to 
reach  out  to  the  faculty  and  assist  in  developing  spin-off 
companies.'' 

But,  says  Banks,  when  it  comes  time  to  commercialize 
technology,  one  of  the  most  difficult  problems  an  engineering 
or  science  researcher  faces  is  understanding  the  market  and 
the  business  value. 

"They  love  the  technology  or  the  science,  as  they  should," 
he  says.  "The  problem  is  that  potential  investors  want  to  know 
how  they  will  make  money  on  the  dollars  they  spend,  and 
researchers  are  almost  never  able  to  answer  that  question.  But 
we  can.  We  have  a  few  faculty  members,  graduate  students, 
even  undergraduate  students  who  do  it  all  the  time."  (And, 
in  time,  Banks  expects  to  increase  that  capacity  with  a  newly 
proposed  MS  in  Technology  Commercialization  and 
Entrepreneurship.) 


Transformations    \    Summer   200        23 


Duckworth  notes  that  through  BEI  he  and  his  Imagi- 
Sonix  colleagues  pitched  their  business  ideas  to  a  number 
of  people.  Those  presentations,  made  in  August  2006,  led 
to  the  formation  of  the  executive  team. 

When  ASTI  co-founders  were  preparing  their  business 
proposal,  WPI  technology  transfer  director  Michael  Manning 
helped  get  them  in  front  of  business  groups,  including  the 
Massachusetts  Technology  Transfer  Center,  a  UMass- 
affiliated  organization. 


■ 


"Both  ASTI  and  ImagiSonix  have  gone  through  the 
'pitch'  process,  which  has  yielded  them  many  viable  leads 
for  financing,  recruitment,  and  strategic  planning,"  he  says. 
'An  important  direct  result  is  that  these  university  researchers 
have  become  adept  at  promoting  and  conducting  business- 
focused  overtures  to  prospective  partners." 

Notes  Pedersen,  "I  could  not  imagine  starting  a  com- 
pany alone — too  much  stress,  and  too  little  fun.  Being  an 
entrepreneur  is  exciting,  for  the  most  part.  Not  knowing 
where  this  is  going?  That's  an  adventure!"  D 


I 


"An  important  direct  result  is  that  these  university  researchers  have 
become  adept  at  promoting  and  conducting  business-focused 
overtures  to  prospective  partners." 


2  4     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


Pure  Genius! 


When  graduate  student  Paul  Kassebaum  and  Zeb  Tracy  '07 
joined  forces  in  early  2007  to  form  a  new  entrepreneurship  club 
at  WPI,  they  did  what  any  good  entrepreneurs  would  do:  they 
thought  big  and  moved  fast. 

The  students  formed  a  vision  of  a  national  nonprofit  organization, 
called  Genius!,  with  chapters  in  universities  and  colleges  across  the 
country.  They  envisioned  a  club  that  would  function  not  only  for 
meetings,  networking,  and  hobnobbing  with  successful  alumni,  but 
also  as  incubators  of  innovation,  from  which  new  companies  could 
spring  like  so  many  streams  feeding  a  river  of  economic  activity. 

Kassebaum  and  Tracy  lost  no  time  writing  the  Genius!  business  plan 
and  executive  summary.  In  the  meantime,  they  recruited  60  WPI 
colleagues  as  members,  and  won  the  support  of  accomplished 
advisors  and  student  entrepreneurs  at  other  institutions  of  higher 
learning. 

Genius!,  which  launches  this  fall  at  WPI,  holds  as  its  central  tenet 
that  innovation  soars  when  people  feel  safe  discussing  their  ideas 
in  diverse,  talented  groups. 

"The  core  of  our  idea  is  to  build  a  network  that  fosters  innovation 
by  opening  up  a  safe  place  for  dialogue,"  says  Kassebaum,  a 
doctoral  student  in  sustainable  energy.  "A  lot  of  innovative 
students  don't  understand  intellectual  property  [IP]  law.  Either  they 
think  it's  scary,  so  they  don't  talk  to  anyone  about  their  ideas,  or 
they  don't  act  on  their  ideas.  Others  think  they  don't  have  to  worry 
about  IP  issues  at  all,  so  they  unwittingly  give  their  IP  rights  away." 

To  get  started,  "we're  exploring  nondisclosure  agreements  to 
create  an  initial  shield  for  inventors,"  says  Tracy,  who  studied 
mechanical  engineering. 

Teamwork  among  diverse  students  also  forms  a  pillar  of  the 
Genius!  approach.  "Individuals  acting  alone  can't  see  all  the 
angles  or  issues,"  Tracy  says. 

Adds  Kassebaum,  "Genius!  will  value  differences  among  team 
members  that  foster  varying  viewpoints,  whether  the  difference 
is  cultural,  cognitive,  skill  set,  age,  or  experience  level." 

At  WPI,  Genius!  members  will  appeal  to  the  university's  alumni  and 
area  businesses  to  invest  in  the  local  club's  entrepreneurs.  Other 
Genius!  chapters  will  operate  similarly.  Donors  can  earmark  funds 
for  specific  chapters,  or  open  their  capital  to  the  national  Genius! 
pool,  which  would  be  managed  by  the  umbrella  nonprofit.  The 
national  organization  would  oversee  fund  distribution  via  an  angel 
investor-style  decision  making  process. 

"The  biggest  value  proposition  to  potential  donors  is  that  they  can 
keep  their  finger  on  the  pulse  of  new  technological  trends  coming 
out  of  multiple  universities,"  Tracy  says. 

"We  also  want  to  ensure  that  WPI's  amazing  resources  made 
available  through  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and 
Innovation  and  its  Venture  Forum  are  fully  used  by  students," 
says  Kassebaum. 


RHP'HM 
MF.ODV 


Paul  Kassebaum,  I 
which  launches  at  V\i . 


racy  have  started  an  entrepreneurship  club, 


Genius!  is  attracting  positive  feedback.  For  example,  the 
Worcester-based  Boynton  Angels  (see  story  on  page  31),  faculty 
at  the  College  of  the  Holy  Cross,  and  students  who  lead  the 
entrepreneurship  club  at  Clark  University  have  all  expressed 
interest  in  helping  to  grow  the  Genius!  organization. 

"I  believe  entrepreneurial  talent  is  the  key  factor  that  will  sustain 
America's  economic  vibrancy,"  says  David  Chu,  director  of 
entrepreneurial  studies  and  associate  professor  of  accounting 
at  Holy  Cross.  Chu  supports  collaboration  on  Genius!  between 
Holy  Cross  and  WPI. 

"We  are  excited  about  Genius!  and  look  forward  to  cross- 
consortium  collaboration,"  says  Zachary  Zielezinski,  co-founder 
and  board  member  of  Initial  Advantage,  Clark's  student 
entrepreneurship  club. 

As  they  prepare  to  hold  the  first  official  Genius!  meetings, 
Kassebaum  and  Tracy  hope  to  attract  WPI  alumni  to  mentor  active 
club  members. 

"Genius!  represents  phenomenal  networking  and  business  creation 
opportunities,"  says  Tracy.  "I  see  the  club  as  a  venue  for  fertilizing 
the  business  landscape  for  exciting  future  endeavors." 


>   THE    ENTREPRENEURS 


i 


WPI  entrepreneurs  follow 
widely  divergent  paths  in  their 
businesses — from  building  boats 
to  building  companies,  from 
strategic  consulting  to  medical 
device  manufacturing.  But  they 
have  a  lot  in  common.  They 
tend  to  view  failure  as  a 
positive — a  sign  that  it  is 
time  to  change  direction 
or  tactics,  rather  than  a 
reason  to  give  up.  They 
see  their  WPI  experiences  as 
entrepreneurial  at  heart.  And 
they  each  have  a  story  to  tell. 
Here  are  a  few. 


Entrepr< 

When  Ron  Ranauro  '83,  '88(MS),  joined  GenomeQuest 
in  2002  [becoming  president  and  CEO  in  2004]  he  began 
boosting  the  firm's  success  by  helping  pharmaceutical  clients 
see  how  bioinformatics  can  be  used  to  fulfill  their  objectives 
to  "fail  early,  fail  often." 

"The  worst  thing  that  can  happen  in  the  pharmaceutical 
development  process  is  to  get  to  the  clinical  trial  phase,  and 
at  that  stage  discover  there's  a  toxicity  problem,  or  that  your 
medication  infringes  on  someone  else's  gene  patents,"  says 
Ranauro.  "GenomeQuest  helps  our  customers  avoid  that  kind 
of  nightmare." 

It's  no  surprise  that  Ranauro  readily  leveraged  researchers' 
"fail"  concept.  Having  worked  with  two  start-ups  and  found- 
ing his  own  company,  he  understands  that  intelligent  risks 
tend  to  bring  rewards,  no  matter  what  the  outcome. 

Ranauro  made  his  first  entrepreneurial  move  to  venture- 
funded  Viewlogic  in  1 986,  after  working  for  several  years 
with  Data  General.  In  1990,  he  became  the  first  sales  and 
marketing  employee  for  Exemplar,  a  high-tech  start-up  with 
just  five  employees. 

In  1996,  he  founded  Blackstone  Technology  Group, 
which  provided  consulting  services  to  the  electronic  design 
and  grid  computing  markets.  "We  built  a  very  profitable 
business  with  15  employees,"  he  notes.  The  company  won 
two  rounds  of  VC  investment  to  develop  software  to  auto- 
mate their  services.  But  with  the  bust  in  2001,  "orders 
and  venture  capital  dried  up." 

Blackstone  was  sold  to  TurboWorx  and  Ranauro  moved  on, 
joining  GenomeQuest.  "Early  in  my  career,  I  was  interested 
in  how  each  position  would  broaden  my  skill  set,"  he  says. 
"Now  that  I  lead  a  company,  it's  helpful  that  I've  worked  in 
many  of  the  positions  held  by  the  people  I  manage." 

Based  in  Westborough,  Mass.,  GenomeQuest  has  created 
a  search  engine  that  harnesses  supercomputing  power  to  sift 
through  mountains  of  gene  sequence  records  and  associated 
text.  Delving  into  an  automatically  updating  database  con- 
taining over  137  million  sequence  records,  the  company 
aggregates  and  uncovers  often  hidden  information,  and 
places  it  on  researchers'  desktops. 

Customers  such  as  Pfizer  and  Biogen  Idee  use 
GenomeQuest  to  prioritize  a  multitude  of  pharmacological 


2  6     Transformations    \    Summer  2007 


eurial  at  Heart 


By  Eileen  McCluskey 


research  options.  "There  are  many  more  candidate 
targets  than  any  one  company  can  possibly  pursue," 
explains  Ranauro.  "Our  clients  want  to  apply  resources 
where  they  can  really  work  for  them,  and  discard 
those  that  are  not  likely  to  bear  fruit." 

Some  law  firms,  including  Foley  Hoag,  that  work 
on  intellectual  property  (IP)  issues  use  GenomeQuest 
to  find  out  if  a  particular  discovery  is  still  available. 
"And  if  it  isn't,  they  can  explore  whether  it  would  be 
possible  for  the  client  to  work  around  the  blocking 
intellectual  property,"  Ranauro  says. 

In  addition  to  helping  customers  succeed  by 
failing  early,  Ranauro  also  guided  GenomeQuest  as 
it  developed  a  collaboration  with  the  French  pharma- 
ceutical company  Servier  Labs.  The  collaboration  uses 
the  genome  as  a  master  index  to  link  results  from  high- 
throughput  DNA  chip  experiments  with  highly  precise 
downstream  measurement  platforms.  "This  is  exciting 
because  now  we're  bridging  the  multiple  worlds  of 
biology,  IP,  and  business,"  says  Ranauro.  With  one 
system,  a  client  can  evaluate  biological  relevance,  see 
the  patent  landscape,  and  seek  potential  collaborators 
or  in-license  partners. 

As  his  experience  deepens,  Ranauro  finds  he 
enjoys  sharing  the  lessons  he's  learned.  This  year, 
he  started  teaching  Entrepreneurial  Communication 
and  Influence  at  Clark  University  as  an  entrepreneur- 
in-residence. 

At  WPI,  he  offers  what  he  calls  "from-the-field 
feedback"  as  a  member  of  the  Department  of 
Management's  executive  council.  He  also  participates 
regularly  in  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship 
and  Innovation  "Dinner  with  Entrepreneurs,"  and 
has  been  a  guest  on  the  WPI  Venture  Forum's 
radio  program. 

Ranauro  sees  his  WPI  involvement  as  a  natural 
expression  of  his  gratitude  to  the  university.  "Navigat- 
ing the  IQP  and  the  MQP  was  an  entrepreneurial 
enterprise  for  me,"  he  says.  "When  I  graduated,  I  felt 
as  though  I  could  do  anything.  I  felt  a  great  sense 
of  accomplishment." 


"This  is  exciting  because  now  we're  bridging  the 
multiple  worlds  of  biology,  IP,  and  business/' 


Transformations    \    Summer   2007     27 


Susan  Loconto  Penta  '86  has  been  an  entrepreneur 
nearly  all  her  life.  "From  an  early  age,  I  understood  that  if 
I  wanted  something,  I  had  better  earn  the  money  to  buy  it," 
she  says.  As  a  high  school  student,  Penta  babysat  for  neigh- 
bors and  tutored  children  in  math.  And  while  studying 
engineering  at  WPI,  she  cobbled  together  a  40-hour  work 
week  typing  students'  papers,  waiting  tables  at  local  restau- 
rants, and  helping  out  in  the  university's  athletic  office. 
Over  the  summers,  she  worked  two  jobs  to  make  ends  meet. 

"My  parents  taught  me  to  be  independent,  to  chart  my 
own  course,"  says  Penta,  a  founding  partner  with  the  success- 
ful Cambridge-based  MIDIOR  Consulting.  "I  like  to  be  in 
control  of  my  own  destiny." 

As  cartographer  of  her  own  life,  Penta  enjoys  working 
for  herself.  In  her  first  job  out  of  London's  CASS  Business 
School,  she  worked  for  product  developer  IDEA  Associates, 
where  she  says,  "I  was  allowed  to  be  the  CEO  of  a  product. 
This  was  a  big  deal  for  me." 

At  IDEA,  Penta  also  met  Michael  Goldberger,  who 
became  her  business  partner  when  the  two  started  MODA 


"Once  an  entrepreneur,  always  an 
entrepreneur.  It's  in  your  blood, 
it's  how  you  operate/' 


Systems  in  1991.  The  wireless  communication  software 
company  did  well  at  first.  "But  we  were  too  early  to  market," 
she  says.  In  1995,  they  sold  the  source  code  licenses  to  cus- 
tomers and  closed  up  shop. 

A  year  later,  following  the  birth  of  her  second  child, 
Penta  knew  she  needed  to  get  back  to  work.  When  a  colleague 
asked  if  she  would  consult  on  a  project,  she  called  on  Goldber- 
ger for  help.  Before  she  knew  it,  she  was  back  in  business  for 
herself.  "Once  an  entrepreneur,  always  an  entrepreneur,"  she 
says  with  a  laugh.  "It's  in  your  blood,  it's  how  you  operate." 

Through  MIDIOR,  Penta  helps  others  operate  like 
entrepreneurs,  even  in  large  corporations.  "Our  approach  is 
grounded  in  the  entrepreneurial  perspective,"  she  says  of  the 
business  and  technology  consulting  firm.  "We  use  that  per- 
spective, combined  with  our  engineering  training,  to  unlock 
the  power  that  products  can  have  in  the  marketplace." 

MIDIOR's  long  client  list  includes  Gerber  Scientific, 
Intel  Corporation,  and  State  Street  Corporation.  "We  help 
these  big  companies  find  their  entrepreneurs,  and  put  them 
in  the  right  roles,"  says  Penta,  who  was  named  one  of 
Boston  Business  Journal's  "40  Under  40"  in  2002. 

Penta  also  assists  nonprofit  organizations  as  they  refine 
their  missions  and  goals.  She  serves  as  chair  of  Schools  for 
Children,  an  East  Coast  nonprofit  that  owns  three  schools 
and  one  educational  program.  She  is  treasurer  of  the  Center 
for  Women  and  Enterprise  and  treasurer  of  the  Belmont  Day 
School.  "I  try  to  cultivate  clarity  of  vision  for  the  boards  I 
work  with,"  Penta  says.  "It's  important  to  tie  the  vision  to 
practical  objectives.  So  I  help  them  create  plans  and  measure 
themselves  against  those  plans." 

At  WPI,  Penta  was  instrumental  in  forming  the 
Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation,  and 
now  serves  on  its  advisory  board.  "I  believe  in  WPI,  and 
understand  how  valuable  this  cross-disciplinary  program  is 
for  both  the  students  and  the  school,"  she  says. 

As  an  alumna  with  strong  ties  to  WPI  and  as  an  execu- 
tive who  spends  much  of  her  time  guiding  organizations 
through  competitive  markets,  Penta  feels  strongly  that  the 
university  should  continue  to  differentiate  itself.  "WPI's 
egalitarian  culture  is  excellent,"  she  says.  "We  should  brag 
about  it." 


2  8     Transformations    \   Summer   2007 


Roger  Heinen  '73  is  no  astrologist,  but  he  knows  that 
when  the  stars  come  into  alignment,  good  things  happen. 

"For  a  start-up  to  be  successful,"  says  the  seasoned 
venture  capitalist,  "you  need  a  unique  idea,  a  strong  team, 
and  a  ready  market.  When  these  stars  align,  there's  a 
powerful  feeling." 

Heinen  relies  on  that  feeling,  coupled  with  an  acute 
business  sense,  to  choose  which  high  tech  companies  he  will 
guide  through  start-up  phase  to  initial  public  offering  (IPO) 
and  beyond.  He  serves  on  the  boards  of  seven  public  and  pri- 
vate high-tech  companies,  including  Monotype  Imaging  in 
Woburn,  Mass.,  which  creates  digital  imaging  technology  and 
filed  for  its  IPO  in  January;  Bedford,  Mass. -based  Progress 
Software,  provider  of  award-winning  application  infrastructure; 
and  Pepper  Computer  in  Lexington,  Mass.,  which  develops 
software  and  services  for  handheld  and  other  computing 
devices,  using  the  open-source  Linux  operating  system. 

He  also  directs  start-ups  as  a  general  partner  with 
Flagship  Ventures,  a  Cambridge-based  VC  firm.  At  Black 
Duck  Software,  for  example,  Heinen  serves  as  chairman  of 
the  board.  The  private  Waltham-based  company,  which  offers 
software  compliance  management  solutions,  is  gearing  up  to 
go  public.  "Roger  is  especially  artful  in  helping  me  navigate 
the  sometimes  frothy  waters  involving  venture  capitalists 
during  financings,"  says  president  and  CEO  Doug  Levin. 

Heinen  entered  the  VC  world 
after  a  distinguished  career  helping  lead 
some  of  the  nation's  most  successful 
technology  corporations.  He  started  out 
in  1973  as  a  cub  programmer  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation,  where  he  later 
became  a  corporate  consulting  engineer. 
He  moved  to  Apple  Computer  in  1990, 
serving  as  senior  vice  president  of  the 
software  division.  From  1993  to  1996  he 
was  senior  vice  president  of  Microsoft 
Corporation's  developer  division. 

"My  motivation  in  going  into  the 
VC  industry  was  to  continue  working 
with  entrepreneurs  in  high  technology," 
he  says.  "It's  been  very  exciting  because 
I  feel  like  I'm  still  contributing." 

In  addition  to  his  technological 
involvements,  Heinen  joined  the  Maine 
Small  Enterprise  Growth  Fund  (SEGF) 
several  years  ago.  SEGF  was  created  by 
the  state's  legislature  in  1995  to  stimu- 
late and  develop  Maine's  economy  with 
"patient"  sources  of  venture  capital. 


"For  a  start-up  to  be  successful,  you  need 
a  unique  idea,  a  strong  team,  and  a  ready 
market.  When  these  stars  align,  there's 
a  powerful  feeling." 


The  businesses  supported  by  SEGF  run  the  gamut  from  food 
companies,  to  guitar  makers,  to  breweries.  "I've  found  Maine's 
investment  environment  particularly  stimulating,"  says 
Heinen,  who  makes  his  home  there.  "Unlike  Massachusetts, 
Maine  has  very  limited  access  to  venture  capitalists.  So  there 
is  tremendous  need  for  people  like  me  to  help  develop  a 
more  diverse  economy." 

Of  course,  Heinen  would  likely  be  the  last  person  to  say 
that  he  can  predict  the  outcomes  of  his  many  investments  of 
time,  expertise,  and  capital.  After  all,  the  stars  can  move  out  of 
alignment  even  at  the  most  carefully  crafted  companies,  with 
the  most  singular  ideas  and  stellar  management  teams.  Indeed, 
says  Heinen,  "Things  always  go  wrong.  You  can  bank  on  that." 

That's  one  reason  he  celebrates  his  WPI  education.  "At 
WPI,  I  learned  how  to  set  up  a  working  environment  that's 
extremely  flexible  so  you  can  recover,  no  matter  what  happens." 

As  he  mentors  an  undergraduate  WPI  student  now, 
Heinen  says  he's  glad  to  see  that  the  university  "continues  to 
teach  the  kinds  of  skills  that  are  necessary  in  today's  quickly 
shifting  business  environment.  I  can  see  this  student  discover- 
ing, as  she  does  her  IQP  and  MQP,  that  no  matter  how 
organized  and  technically  skilled  you  are,  ideas  always  take 
longer  to  realize  than  you  think  they  will.  This  student  will 
enter  the  job  market  with  that  understanding.  It's  one  ele- 
ment that  makes  the  WPI  experience  so  rewarding." 


Greg  Hopkins  '69  started  and  ran  high-tech  companies 
for  20  years  before  trading  in  his  laptop  for  a  pair  of  oars. 

The  entrepreneur  launched  two  businesses  during  the 
1980s,  and  a  third  in  1990.  He  founded  UB  Networks  and 
ran  its  engineering  operations — the  networking  equipment 
provider  went  public  in  1984,  was  later  bought  by  Tandem 
Computer,  then  by  Compaq  Computer,  and  finally  became 
part  of  Hewlett-Packard.  His  Amber  Wave  Systems  sold  suc- 
cessfully to  U.S.  Robotics  and  was  then  purchased  by  3Com. 
Windata,  which  Hopkins  founded  in  1990,  built  wireless 
local  networks  and  participated  in  creating  the  IEEE  802.1 1 
wireless  standards. 

"Those  early  days  of  local  area  networks,  switching,  and 
routing  were  heady  times,"  says  Hopkins.  "Our  products 
became  the  plumbing  for  today's  wired  and  wireless  networks." 

But  don't  take  his  nostalgia  for  a  longing  to  be  back  in 
the  technological  fray.  "I've  had  enough  of  running  start-ups 
and  dealing  with  the  venture  capital  community,"  he  says. 

To  capitalize  on  a  long-standing  love  of  boat  building, 
Hopkins  started  Nextwave  Boat  Company  in  Portsmouth, 
N.H.,  in  2001.  At  first,  he  made  one-offs  for  customers — 
kayaks,  canoes,  motorized  runabouts,  electric  boats.  "Basically, 
I  was  willing  to  build  any  boat  a  customer  asked  for,"  he  says. 

Then  he  discovered  the  Piscataqua  Wherry,  a  16-foot 
rowboat  specifically  designed  to  navigate  the  tidal  waters  of 
Portsmouth.  "It's  an  amazing  boat,"  says  Hopkins,  whose 
research  tells  him  it  first  appeared  in  the  mid- 1800s.  "This 
rowboat  used  to  be  the  taxicab  for  the  Piscataqua  [pronounced 
pis-CAT-a-kwa]  River.  It's  indigenous  to  this  area.  People  get 
interested  in  it  because  of  that." 

Soon  Hopkins  had  set  up  his  shop  especially  for  building 
the  Piscataqua  Wherry — the  set-up  includes  templates  for 
every  part  of  the  boat  and  a  set  of  permanent  molds  to  plank 
the  hull. 

Now  that  his  workshop  stands  ready,  Hopkins  enjoys 
customizing  the  Wherry  for  clients.  "One  customer  brought 
wood  from  an  apple  tree  that  had  been  on  his  grandmother's 
property,"  he  says.  "I  used  it  to  make  inlays  in  the  fore  and 
aft  decks." 

Although  he  doesn't  miss  the  pressure  of  high-tech  start- 
ups, Hopkins  still  does  plenty  of  networking,  enthusiastically 
spreading  the  lore  associated  with  the  Piscataqua  Wherry. 
He  has  pored  over  trial  records  of  the  notorious  Smuttynose 
murderer — named  for  the  New  Hampshire  island  on  which 
the  crime  took  place  in  1873— and  has  concluded  that  the 


"With  boat  building,  I  can  see  what  I've  accomplished 
at  the  end  of  every  day.  It's  very  satisfying/7 


3  0     Trans  format  ions    \   Summer  2007 


Piscataqua  Wherry  may  well  have  been  the  craft  stolen  by 
the  perpetrator  on  the  fateful  day.  On  his  website,  he  invites 
the  curious  to  stop  in  and  hear  the  whole  story. 

To  further  promote  Nextwave,  Hopkins  plans  to  borrow 
one  of  the  original  Piscataqua  Wherries  from  the  Kittery  [Maine] 
Naval  Museum.  "I'd  like  to  show  an  original  next  to  one  of 
mine  at  the  first  Portsmouth  Boat  Show,"  he  says. 

As  he  rolls  up  his  sleeves  to  build  more  rowboats,  Hopkins 
finds  the  skills  he  gained  in  college  just  as  useful  as  when  he 
made  routers.  "WPI  made  me  comfortable  trying  new 


things,"  he  says.  Little  wonder,  then,  that  his  latest  venture  is 
faring  well — Nextwave  has  sold  four  of  the  rowboat  reproduc- 
tions in  the  last  nine  months. 

Looking  back  over  his  varied  career,  Hopkins  sees  that  his 
current  course  suits  him.  "When  we  were  starting  companies, 
we  thought  we  were  going  to  solve  everybody's  problems,  and 
act  as  the  conduit  for  everyone  getting  onto  the  Internet.  That 
kind  of  goal  can  take  a  long  time  to  realize,"  he  says.  "With 
boat  building,  I  can  see  what  I've  accomplished  at  the  end  of 
every  day.  It's  very  satisfying."  D 


Where  Angels  Dare  to  Invest 

Mitchell  Sanders  '88(MS),  '92(PhD),  sees  enormous  entrepre- 
neurial potential  in  his  hometown  of  Worcester.  And  he  ought 
to  know  about  the  odds  of  making  it  here.  Sanders  is  executive 
vice  president  of  Worcester-based  ECI  Biotech,  a  protein-sensor 
company  he  founded  in  1998.  He  quickly  secured  $15  million 
for  ECI  in  equity,  corporate  development  funding,  and  Small 
Business  Innovation  Research  (SBIR)  grants.  Most  recently,  ECI 
received  an  $800,000  low-interest  loan  from  MassDevelopment 
Finance  Agency  to  open  a  manufacturing  facility. 

"Worcester  is  being  revitalized,"  says  Sanders.  "Our  cultural, 
business,  and  educational  infrastructure  looks  exciting.  I've  wanted 
to  help  build  new  businesses  here  through  investing,  but  who  has 
time  to  review  business  plans  every  day?" 

Sanders  knew  how  he  wanted  to  answer  that  question — starting 
an  angel  investment  group.  And  he  knew  where  he  could  find  col- 
leagues to  assist  him — WPI.  Sanders  maintains  close  ties  with  the 
university:  he  serves  as  vice  chair  of  the  Venture  Forum,  holds  dual 
assistant  research  professorships  in  WPI's  Bioengineering  Institute 
and  Biology  and  Biotechnology  Department,  and  serves  on  the  board 
of  the  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation  (CEI). 

The  WPI  Venture  Forum  Executive  Board  had  also  "identified 
the  lack  of  gap  funding,  which  angels  typically  provide,  as  an 
impediment  to  start-ups  in  central  Massachusetts,"  notes  Mac 
Banks,  head  of  the  Department  of  Management,  professor  of 
entrepreneurship  and  strategy,  and  CEI  director.  After  Sanders 
became  a  member  of  the  board  in  2005,  he  began  organizing 
the  Boynton  Angels  (BA)  with  over  a  dozen  WPI  alumni  and 
faculty  members,  including  Gina  Betti,  CEI  associate  director, 
Chick  Kasouf,  associate  professor  of  marketing  and  entrepre- 
neurship, Steve  Rubin  '74,  entrepreneur  and  member  of  the  WPI 
Board,  Amar  Kapur  '65,  past  president  of  the  Venture  Forum, 
and  Jerry  Schaufeld,  visiting  professor  of  entrepreneurship. 

BA  launched  in  November  2006  and  quickly  attracted  1 7  members. 
Aside  from  its  WPI  makeup,  says  Sanders,  members  include  alumni 
and  faculty  from  Clark  University  and  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Lowell,  and  executives  from  industries  including  energy,  manufactur- 
ing, biotech,  consumer  products,  telecommunications,  and  software. 

"Many  of  our  members  live  or  do  business  in  Worcester,"  he 
notes.  "Others  simply  enjoy  investing  and  saw  the  opportunity 


Mitchell  Sanders,  left,  with  Eric  Overstrom,  head  of  WPI's  Biology  and 
Biotechnology  Department. 


for  a  whole  new  array  of  deals  they  may  never  have  heard  about 
otherwise."  According  to  Sanders,  two-thirds  of  the  BA  members 
have  invested  as  individual  angels  in  over  25  start-ups.  More 
than  80  percent  have  been  founders,  CEOs,  or  presidents  of 
companies,  and  most  have  served  on  boards  of  directors. 

"I  tell  potential  members  this  is  a  great  opportunity  to  invest  with 
a  strong  group  of  sophisticated  individuals,"  Sanders  says.  "With 
the  Boynton  Angels,  you'll  get  better  terms  than  if  you  go  it  alone, 
and  the  group  is  able  to  pursue  vigorous  due  diligence,  so  you're 
not  just  hoping  for  the  best  when  you  invest." 

With  plans  to  focus  investments  in  seed-  and  expansion-stage 
companies,  the  BA  have  ramped  up  quickly.  Their  screening 
committee  sifted  through  200  business  plans  and  by  January  had 
chosen  three  entrepreneurs  to  present  to  the  larger  group.  Among 
these  hopefuls  were  software  developers  in  the  medical  and  real 
estate  industries  and  a  medical  device  maker.  Two  of  these  plans 
have  been  chosen  for  the  due  diligence  stage.  The  BA  will  make 
their  first  investment  this  year. 

"Unlike  venture  capital  firms,  the  Boynton  Angels  can  come  in  at 
earlier  stages  of  investment,"  Sanders  says.  "We  can  fill  that  gap 
between  a  start-up's  influx  of  funds  from  grants  like  those  given 
through  the  SBIR,  and  the  more  formal  VC." 

A  flexible  investment  group  like  the  BA  can  prevent  the  "analysis 
paralysis"  that  often  happens  in  the  investment  industry.  "When 
we  see  great  opportunities  with  sound  management  teams,  we  can 
get  them  moving.  That's  what  I'm  excited  about,"  Sanders  says. 
"I  think  the  Boynton  Angels  are  going  to  be  the  ignition  switch 
for  investment  in  this  town." 


>   THE    INVENTORS 


■ 


j 


c* 


O 


^> 


• 


"*f 


By  Kate  Evans-Correia 


Sterilray,  a  new  type  of 
ultraviolet  lamp  developed 
by  Ed  Neister,  could 
revolutionize  the  way 
people  disinfect  surfaces. 


Brandishing  WPI's  legacy  of  innovation  and  entrepreneurial  spirit, 
Edward  Neister  '65  and  Timothy  McGreal  '04  (MS)  have  proven 
that  with  determination,  passion,  and  hard  work  you  can  see  a  great  idea 
to  fruition.  Both  have  formed  their  own  companies  and  invented  products 
that  could  ultimately  save  lives.  On  the  other  end  of  the  invention  spectrum 
is  Michael  Feely  '97,  who  is  responsible  for  reviewing  many  of  the 
400,000  patent  applications  filed  each  year  in  the  United  States. 


Ed  Neister 's  invention  looks  like  a  prop  from  the  1 984 
movie  Ghost  Busters.  But  instead  of  trapping  pesky  ghosts, 
Neister's  gadget  zaps  something  real  and  much  more  threat- 
ening— germs. 

His  GermBuster  Sanitation  Wand,  which  uses  Sterilray, 
a  new  type  of  ultraviolet  lamp  developed  by  Neister,  could 
revolutionize  the  way  people  disinfect  surfaces.  By  killing  stub- 
born bacteria  and  viruses  instantly,  it  could  prove  invaluable 
to  health  care  facilities,  food  processing  centers,  germ  testing 
laboratories,  and  hospitality  centers,  including  cruise  ships. 

Consider  this:  A  typical  surface  can  have  a  million 
CFUs  (coliform  units)  of  bacteria  per  square  centimeter,  but 
a  typical  surface  cleaner  kills  only  a  small  percentage  of  those 
bacteria.  It  can  take  as  little  as  10  viral  units  of  a  norovirus  to 
make  a  person  sick.  "What  we're  saying  is,  there's  no  better 
way  to  disinfect  a  surface  than  to  use  this  far  UV  light," 
Neister  explains. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  in  1965  with  a  BS  in  physics, 
Neister  went  on  to  become  one  of  the  earliest  developers  of 
products  using  laser  technology.  He  has  started  six  companies, 
including  his  current  enterprise,  Healthy  Environment 
Innovations,  in  New  Durham,  N.H.,  and  has  invented  several 
products,  including  a  tattoo  removal  laser.  His  latest  idea  has 
turned  into  the  GermBuster. 

Neister  chose  to  attend  WPI  because  he  "wanted  a 
school  where  a  student  was  not  just  a  theorist  but  an  experi- 
mentalist." It  was  important  for  him  to  be  able  to  grasp 
"the  physics  of  nature,  not  just  the  calculations." 

When  he  began  his  doctoral  studies  at  Brandeis,  the 
potential  of  laser  technology  (still  in  its  infancy)  was  too 
tempting  for  Neister's  entrepreneurial  side.  "It  wasn't  long 
before  I  realized  I  didn't  want  to  be  a  nuclear  physicist,"  he 
admits.  "I  said,  'It's  new  technology  and  I'm  there.'  I  took 
a  leave  of  absence  [from  Brandeis]  and  never  went  back." 

He  eventually  earned  his  MS  in  physics  from  North- 
eastern University,  while  continuing  to  work  at  AVCO  and 
later  at  Honeywell  in  laser  research.  Yet,  as  exciting  as  the 
research  was,  Neister  became  disillusioned  with  the  field's 


lack  of  job  security.  "In  1970  I  said,  'Enough!'  and  started 
my  own  company." 

Several  years  (and  companies)  later,  Neister  began 
exploring  wastewater  treatment  using  UV  rays  and  looking 
for  ways  to  apply  the  same  process  to  kill  surface  bacteria. 

Used  commonly  in  the  treatment  of  wastewater,  rays  in 
the  UVC,  or  "germicidal"  band,  cause  base  pairs  in  the  DNA 
molecule  to  bond  tightly,  rendering  the  molecule  unable  to 
replicate  and  microorganisms  unable  to  reproduce.  But  under 
certain  circumstances,  light  with  longer  wavelengths  can 
weaken  the  base  pair  bonds,  enabling  the  organisms  to  start 
reproducing  again.  Neister  discovered  that  light  in  the  far 
UV  spectrum,  with  a  much  stronger  photon  energy  than  light 
from  standard  UV  lamps,  killed  significantly  more  pathogens 
and  actually  damaged  other  parts  of  the  DNA  molecule.  It 
virtually  destroys  all  types  of  pathogens  in  less  than  one 
second.  Hence,  the  birth  of  Sterilray. 

"We  made  a  simple  lamp  at  different  wavelengths,  tested 
it  at  the  University  of  New  Hampshire,  and  saw  improvement 
[in  the  destruction  of  a  phage  virus],"  says  Neister.  At  that 
point,  he  knew  he  had  a  "significant  method  for  killing 
viruses  on  a  surface." 

Though  it  has  taken  almost  five  years  to  develop  fully, 
there's  still  more  testing  to  be  done.  Neister  is  looking  at  the 
possibility  of  doing  bacterial  and  virus  testing  at  WPI's  new 
Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineering  Center  at  Gateway  Park, 
part  of  an  1 1-acre  life  sciences  and  bioengineering  district  the 
university  is  developing  with  the  city  of  Worcester.  He  says 
that  a  partnership  with  WPI  is  likely  sometime  within  the 
next  year. 

Neister  is  excited  at  the  prospect  of  working  with  WPI 
again.  After  all,  he  notes,  it  was  a  great  foundation  for  his 
career  as  scientist,  inventor,  and  entrepreneur.  "The  most 
important  thing  is  WPI's  ability  to  teach  students  to  think 
for  themselves,"  he  says.  "Doing  all  those  experiments  gave 
you  a  sense  that  you  have  a  bunch  of  doors  that  you  must 
figure  out  how  to  open.  You  won't  get  that  out  of  books. 
You  have  to  think  your  way  through  problems." 


Transformations    \    Summer   2  00  7     33 


"People  really  need  smoke  detectors  in  every  room 
This  product  makes  it  much  quicker,  easier, 
and  safer  to  do  that/' 


Fire  Inspector  Gadget 

It  was  a  class  video  that  showed  fire  racing  through  a  home 
that  led  Tim  McGreal  '04  (MS)  to  develop  what  promises 
to  be  one  of  the  most  simple,  but  useful,  fire  safety  devices 
available  to  consumers — a  product  that  makes  it  possible  to 
install  and  remove  smoke  alarms  without  the  use  of  a  ladder. 

"It's  a  simple  way  to  access  a  smoke  alarm  from  the 
ground,"  McGreal  says  of  AlarmArm,  a  product  that  uses  an 
extension  pole  and  his  patented  magnetic  mounting  system. 
But  he's  quick  to  point  out  that  making  it  practical  was  the 
challenge.  "Having  an  idea  is  much  easier  than  developing  a 
commercially  viable  product." 

As  for  ideas,  McGreal  has  a  million  of  them.  Even  as  a 
little  kid  he  was  always  thinking  of  ways  to  make  things  work 
better.  This  time,  his  idea  stemmed  from  needing  additional 
smoke  alarms  in  his  home. 

"One  of  the  rooms  had  a  19-foot  ceiling.  I  looked  up  and 
thought,  'I  need  a  smoke  alarm  there  but  I  don't  want  to  climb 
a  16-foot  ladder,'"  says  McGreal,  who  earned  his  degree  in 
fire  protection  engineering  through  WPI's  Advanced  Distance 
Learning  Network.  "The  mock-up  was  done  in  about  five 
minutes,  but  it  took  four  years  to  turn  it  into  a  practical, 
commercially  viable  product." 

McGreal  originally  designed  AlarmArm  using  adhesive. 


But  it  just  didn't  stick.  Literally.  So  he  reworked  several  mod- 
els and  found  that  magnets  were  the  best  way  to  go.  In  2005, 
AlarmArm  won  NASA's  merit  award  for  its  "Entering  the 
Future"  contest,  he  modestly  points  out.  But  at  the  end  of 
the  day,  it's  not  about  awards;  it's  about  saving  lives.  "People 
really  need  smoke  detectors  in  every  room,"  he  says.  "This 
product  makes  it  much  quicker,  easier,  and  safer  to  do  that." 

The  AlarmArm,  which  McGreal  will  be  distributing 
through  his  company,  SafetyWise,  isn't  his  first  patented 
product,  nor  is  it  likely  to  be  his  last.  In  December  2000  he 
received  a  patent  for  "transmission  apparatus  and  method," 
which  is  a  120-speed  transmission  for  an  agricultural  planter, 
and  he  has  a  patent  pending  for  a  "torque-limiting  threaded 
coupler,"  which  allows  threaded  plumbing  and  fastener  com- 
ponents to  be  precisely  assembled  without  guesswork,  luck, 
or  measuring  instruments,  thus  preventing  water  damage. 

While  working  as  an  auto  mechanic  in  the  mid-'80s, 
McGreal  watched  his  brother,  Michael  McGreal  '91,  launch 
a  successful  career  in  fire  protection  engineering,  and  thought 
he  could  do  the  same.  Now  a  full-time  forensic  engineer  for 
Rimkus  Consulting  Group  in  Westmont,  111.,  Tim  McGreal 
estimates  he  has  spent  nearly  6,000  hours  working  on  the 
AlarmArm.  He  received  the  patent  for  the  device  in  February 


3  4     Transformations    \    Summer  2007 


£'<cc 


2005,  but  much  of  his  time  is  now  spent  on  finishing  the  design 
and  working  on  production  tooling.  Contracting  production 
to  Adams  Magnetic  Products  Co..  he  expects  to  start  selling 
the  device  this  summer — initially  through  catalogs,  the 
AlarmArm  website,  and  the  Home  Shopping  Nerwork/QYC. 
Shortly  afterward,  it  will  be  sold  at  retail  outlets,  such  as 
Home  Depot,  Lowes.  Wal-Mart,  and  Target. 

Although  McGreal  hadn't  stepped  foot  on  the  WTI 
campus  until  after  graduating,  he  credits  his  experience  with 
WPI's  distance  learning  program  for  the  drive  and  patience  to 
see  an  idea  through  to  fruition.  All  distance-based  fire  protec- 
tion engineering  programs  are  taught  on  campus  in  real  time 
and  then  streamed  on  the  Internet.  Each  course  has  additional 
web-based  content  and  a  suite  of  collaboration  tools  that  help 
foster  interaction  among  faculty  and  students. 

"One  thing  that  was  different  [from  a  traditional  college 
experience]  was  that  the  courses  were  conducive  to  independ- 
ent work,"  he  says.  And  even  though  his  professors  were  a 
thousand  miles  away,  it  didn't  mean  he  could  slack  off  when 
they  weren't  looking.  "I  remember  a  test  that  took  20-plus 
hours  to  finish  over  one  weekend.  It  gave  me  a  taste  of  what 
the  real  world  is  like — what  it's  like  to  be  an  inventor,  going 
nonstop."  D 


As  a  patent  examiner  specializing 
in  epoxy  composition  (adhesives),  Mike 
Feely  '97  admits  he  doesn't  have  a  very 
sexy  job.  But,  he  asserts,  it's  a  great  job. 

"People  say  to  me,  'You  must  do  some 
really  cool  stuff.'  And  I  say,  'Yeah,  these 
resins  are  great. 

Though  he  jokes  about  his  day-to-day  work  at  the  U.S.  Patent 
and  Trademark  Office  (USPTO),  the  fact  is,  Feely  is  about  as 
close  to  innovation  as  one  can  get  and  he  takes  his  part  in 
the  invention  process  seriously. 

While  he  may  not  be  pursuing  the  career  path  he  anticipated, 
Feely  says  he  is  well  suited  for  the  job,  thanks  to  his  education 
and  previous  work  experience  as  an  engineer  using  materials 
and  processes  similar  to  the  ones  he  examines  in  patent 
applications.  "WPI  provided  me  with  an  excellent  foundation 
of  analytical  skills  and  technical  knowledge,  along  with  a  very 
important  taste  of  the  real  world,"  he  says.  "Project  work  was 
an  excellent  preparation  for  the  complexities  of  industry  and 
work  life." 

The  USPTO  has  about  5,000  patent  examiners  (most  of  them 
with  specialized  degrees  in  engineering)  reviewing  the  nearly 
450,000  patent  applications  the  office  receives  yearly.  Of 
those,  about  1 80,000  patents  are  issued  each  year,  but  that 
still  leaves  a  backlog  of  800,000  unexamined  applications. 
Patent  examiners  review  patent  applications  to  determine  their 
validity,  value,  and  novelty.  They  compare  the  subject  matter 
of  an  application  to  a  large  body  of  technological  information 
to  determine  whether  or  not  a  patent  can  be  granted. 

"You  get  a  feel  for  what  the  invention  is  and  the  scope  of  what 
they're  claiming,"  says  Feely,  who  has  been  with  the  USPTO 
since  2000.  His  job  requires  a  good  deal  of  time  manage- 
ment, as  does  his  expertise  as  a  chemical  engineer.  "There 
are  numerous  deadlines  so  you  have  to  keep  on  top  of  your 
docket.  Do  a  thorough  job  or  it  will  come  back  to  haunt  you." 

Socially,  it's  a  far  cry  from  the  group  projects  that  were  such 
an  important  part  of  his  experience  at  WPI.  "Here,  it's  much 
more  of  an  individual  work  environment,"  which,  he  says, 
took  some  adjustment. 

After  graduating  with  a  BS  in  chemical  engineering,  Feely 
worked  as  an  engineer  for  small  local  companies.  But  a  few 
years  into  his  second  job,  he  decided  to  try  something  and 
someplace  different.  He  had  his  pick  of  locations,  but  chose 
Washington,  D.C.,  where  he'd  spent  part  of  his  junior  year 
working  on  his  IQP. 

In  fact,  the  USPTO  is  gaining  a  reputation  as  being  one  of  the 
best  places  to  work  in  Washington.  Business  Week  recently 
named  the  USPTO  one  of  the  top  places  to  launch  a  career. 
Over  the  past  three  years,  it  has  hired  2,200  new  patent 
examiners  and  plans  to  hire  an  additional  1,200  each  year 
for  the  next  five  years. 

"I  didn't  know  what  to  expect,"  he  says.  "I  knew  I  was  taking 
a  chance.  But  everything  turned  out  great.  It  was  the  change 
of  pace  I  was  looking  for." 


>   THE    PASTOR 


As  the  first  African  American — 
and  the  first  woman — called  to 
lead  the  150-year-old  First  Bapti 
Church  of  Needham,  Debora 
Jackson  '89  moves  easily  betwe< 
worlds  of  business  and  religion, 
trying  to  help  each  learn  from 
the  other. 


he  Spirit 

By  Joan  Killough-Miller 

The  steeple  of  the  First  Baptist  Church  is  the  tallest 
structure  in  the  town  of  Needham,  Mass.  Some  might  look  to 
it  as  a  symbol  of  pride  or  inspiration — but  to  the  Reverend 
Debora  Jackson,  it  is  a  source  of  revenue.  When  she  first  came 
on  board  as  senior  pastor  in  2004,  the  church  was  reaping 
the  benefits  of  cellular  transmitting  antennas  concealed  in  the 
tower.  Concerned  that  consolidation  in  the  telecom  industry 
might  depreciate  that  asset,  Jackson  did  some  research.  When 
some  brokers  came  calling  with  a  proposal  to  purchase  the 
access  leases,  she  had  already  run  the  numbers. 

Jackson  still  laughs  when  she  recalls  their  astonishment. 
"You  could  just  see  them  looking  at  each  other,  saying  'I 
thought  she  was  the  minister!'  They  thought  I  was  just  there 
to  offer  the  so-called  'sandwich  prayers'  at  the  opening  and 
closing  of  the  meeting."  She  shot  down  their  initial  offer  and 
came  away  with  a  lump-sum  payment  more  in  line  with  her 
analysis  of  market  value. 

The  unflinching  negotiations  hardly  came  as  a  surprise 
to  the  church  members.  They  had  already  seen  Jackson  in 
action  when  they  first  invited  her  to  be  their  spiritual  leader. 
She  immediately  renegotiated  her  compensation  package,  line 
by  line — and  that  was  while  she  was  still  a  seminary  student. 
Her  parishioners  knew  full  well  that  she  came  to  the  table  with 
an  undergraduate  business  degree  from  Indiana  University, 
and  two  master's  degrees  from  WPI,  in  engineering  manage- 
ment and  manufacturing  engineering. 

At  the  heart  of  Jackson's  ministry  and  her  consulting 
work  is  a  surprising  assertion:  Like  businesses,  churches  must 
be  concerned  with  the  bottom  line  and  realize  a  return  for 
their  investments.  Like  churches,  businesses  can't  thrive  unless 
they  look  out  for  their  employees'  spiritual  needs.  Spiritual, 
she  is  quick  to  point  out,  doesn't  have  to  mean  religious. 

Jackson's  first  calling  was  sudden  and  deep.  "I'm  going 
to  be  a  computer  programmer,"  she  declared  at  age  12,  on  a 
sixth-grade  field  trip.  She  began  her  career  in  software  devel- 
opment and  soon  moved  into  management.  She  was  leading 
the  start-up  of  an  e-commerce  platform  for  utilities  when 
Enron  crashed,  taking  the  energy  industry  with  it.  In  the 
aftermath,  she  was  forced  to  lay  off  half  her  staff,  and  then 
found  herself  jobless  when  her  company  folded. 

Her  religious  vocation  grew  out  of  a  lifetime  of  church 
involvement.  "It  was  in  December  of  1999  that  I  acknowl- 
edged my  calling.  I  felt  like  God  had  said  to  me,  'This  is 
where  I  want  you  to  go.'  It  was  an  overwhelming,  troubling, 


frightening  sense.  I  just  thought,  'I  can't  do  that!'"  But  in  the 
fall  of  2000,  after  completing  her  second  master's  program  at 
WPI,  she  entered  seminary  at  Andover  Newton  Theological 
School.  As  she  was  serving  an  internship  at  FBC,  the  church's 
senior  pastor  retired,  and  Jackson  was  asked  to  succeed  him. 

While  her  church  reaps  the  benefits  of  her  business 
acumen,  Jackson  also  helps  businesses  leverage  the  power  of 
spiritual  engagement.  "I  know  that  gets  into  touchy  language," 
she  says.  "It  doesn't  mean  I'm  proselytizing.  It's  about  what 
drives  you,  what  your  passions  are,  and  how  those  passions 
get  manifested  in  your  everyday  life."  She  is  a  partner  in 
Executive  Soul,  a  group  consultancy  that  helps  organizations 
and  their  leaders  connect  to  their  spiritual  core.  Before 
joining  FBC,  she  had  her  own  agency,  The  Renewal  Group, 
which  specializes  in  revitalizing  workers  and  organizations 
after  the  demoralizing  effects  of  downsizing. 

Disengagement  can  also  be  an  issue  for  churches.  "The 
engagement  is  about  being  on  fire  for  God,"  she  says.  "If  you 
are,  you  recognize  the  commitment  to  build  the  ministry, 
share  the  Gospel,  feed  the  hungry,  and  clothe  the  naked.  In 
the  Northeast,  particularly  church  is  seen  as  a  nice-to-do, 
nice-to-have  kind  of  activity.  It's  always  at  the  periphery.  You 
have  people  who  only  want  to  give  an  hour,  on  Sunday,  and 
start  to  squirm  when  it  takes  a  little  more  than  that.  And  it 
always  does — when  I'm  preaching!"  she  adds  with  a  laugh. 

"I  use  my  WPI  education  every  day  here,  from  launching 
a  marketing  campaign,  to  active  recruiting,  to  meeting  with 
business  leaders,"  she  says.  "It  goes  back  to  process,  organiza- 
tional development,  and  capacity  planning — the  courses  I 
took  at  WPI.  The  church  is  an  enterprise.  How  do  I,  as  CEO, 
structure  it  so  it  can  reach  its  goals  and  objectives? 

"I  know  that  some  people  don't  like  this  comparison, 
because  it  seems  too  secular.  Our  objectives  are  not  dollar 
driven — but  they  still  have  to  be  measurable  and  tangible," 
she  continues.  "The  reality  is,  so  many  of  our  churches  are 
in  trouble.  If  you  don't  have  a  broader  hand,  you  may  not 
be  able  to  achieve  your  desires."  During  her  tenure  at  FBC, 
attendance  at  worship  services  has  doubled. 

In  the  larger  Needham  community,  Jackson's  energy 
galvanizes  a  wider  audience.  Her  outreach  to  schools  and 
civic  organizations  sometimes  involves  breaking  down  barri- 
ers. "People  put  clergy  in  a  box,"  she  says.  "They  think  I'm 
going  to  pull  out  a  Bible  and  start  telling  them  how  Jesus 
needs  to  be  in  their  lives,  or  something  like  that.  But  I'm 
thinking  about  strategic  alliances  and  partnerships." 

Whether  it's  bringing  the  town  together  to  help 
Hurricane  Katrina  victims  in  Mississippi,  or  shedding  her 
clerical  robes  for  blue  jeans  to  sing  rhythm  and  blues  on 
teen  band  night,  Debora  Jackson  knows  how  to  win  over 
her  target  audience  and  get  results.  "What  saps  my  energy 
is  mediocrity,"  she  says.  "There's  always  a  higher  peak,  and 
I  want  to  climb  it.  My  family  is  supportive  of  that,  because 
they  know  that  I  function  best  when  I  am  challenged  and 
stretched.  I  can't  imagine  it  any  other  way"  D 


Transformations    \     Summer  2007     37 


A   BREEDER 


Only  hours  after  giving  birth,  Penelope  is  looking  a  bit 
weary  as  she  tends  to  her  newborn,  Ajax.  Jennifer  Lutz  greets 
her  sympathetically,  patting  the  recently  shorn  mother  with  a 
reassuring  gesture  before  taking  the  fleecy  white  son  out  for  a 
moment  to  be  weighed.  Lutz  knows  firsthand  how  difficult 
labor  can  be — after  all,  she  has  given  birth  to  two  sons  of  her 
own.  She  finds  that  her  experience  as  a  mother  comes  in 
handy.  "Being  in  labor,  having  a  baby — I  can  really  identify 
with  the  girls,"  she  says. 

And  there  are  plenty  of  "girls"  grateful  for  the  support. 
On  a  sunny  May  afternoon,  170  are  scattered  about  the  barn, 
the  outdoor  pens,  and  the  nearby  pastures.  Some  are  only 
days  or  hours  away  from  giving  birth.  Others  have  just  had 
a  romp  in  the  hay — actually,  shredded  recycled  cardboard — 
with  some  of  the  100  male  residents  of  the  wooden  barn  just 
down  the  hill. 

All  are  alpacas — not  so  much  a  herd  as  a  collection  of 
individual  creatures.  Each  has  a  name,  a  personality,  a  story. 
For  Lutz,  her  husband,  Ian,  and  their  sons,  Sam  and  Max, 


the  fuzzy  creatures  are  part  of  a  larger  family  at  Cas-Cad-Nac 
Farm  in  Perkinsville,  Vt. 

This  agrarian  setting  on  the  slopes  of  Mount  Ascutney 
is  just  about  the  last  place  Lutz  imagined  herself  ending  up 
when  she  was  a  student  at  WPI.  Having  grown  up  on  a  farm 
in  Woodstock,  Vt.,  Lutz  explains,  "I  ran  away  from  the  farm. 
That's  why  I  went  into  engineering."  She  never  did  4H  as  a 
child  and  never  showed  animals.  Civil  engineering  was  going 
to  be  her  life's  work,  not  the  care  and  feeding  of  a  bunch  of 
barnyard  inhabitants. 

The  alumna  was  well  on  her  way  to  her  chosen  career 
when  her  MQP  took  her  to  Ecuador.  By  then  she  and  Ian,  a 
high  school  classmate,  had  been  dating  for  several  years.  At  a 
study  site  a  drive  away  from  Guayaquil,  Lutz  and  the  other 
members  of  her  group  were  investigating  gold  mining  con- 
tamination. As  she  journeyed  back  and  forth  to  places  made 
hazardous  by  mercury  and  cyanide,  she  would  catch  glimpses 
of  llamas.  She  fell  in  love  with  the  quizzical-looking  animals 
and  joked  with  Ian  about  getting  a  llama  for  the  backyard. 


3  8     Transformations    \    Summer  2  0  07 


■•■■■! 


"I  wear  many  hats  in  a  day.  I  never  do  just  one  thing.  This  morning 
I  played  midwife  to  Penelope.  I  also  play  accountant,  business 
person,  salesperson,  veterinary  technician/' 


After  graduating  in  1994,  Lutz  quickly  found  a  position 
as  an  environmental  engineer  with  a  firm  in  Lebanon,  N.H., 
working  on  remediation  and  tank  removal.  She  and  Ian 
married  a  year  later.  Shortly  thereafter,  at  an  agricultural  fair 
in  Killington,  the  camelid  family  reared  its  adorable  head 
once  again.  This  time  the  beasts  were  alpacas — smaller 
cousins  to  the  llamas  that  Lutz  had  seen  in  Ecuador.  She 
did  her  homework.  By  the  time 
she  and  Ian  bought  their  first  five 
animals  in  1997,  they  were  ready — 
or  so  they  thought. 

They  soon  discovered  that  farm 
life  means  always  being  prepared  for 
surprises.  "I  wear  many  hats  in  a  day. 
I  never  do  just  one  thing,"  Lutz  says. 
"I  could  wake  up  and  find  two  babies. 
Or  I  could  do  paperwork  in  the  office. 
This  morning  I  played  midwife  to 
Penelope.  I  also  play  accountant, 
businessperson,  salesperson,  veteri- 
nary technician.  We  do  a  lot  of  our 
own  veterinary  work."  In  her  med- 
ical room — stocked  with  Vaseline, 
Pepto-Bismol,  thermometers,  rub- 
bing alcohol,  latex  gloves,  and  syringes 
splint  she  created  to  fix  the  crooked  leg  of  one  brown  twin 
born  recently.  She  fashioned  it  out  of  a  spoon,  some  PVC 
pipe,  cotton,  and  duct  tape.  The  materials  were  unconven- 
tional, but  the  splint  did  the  trick. 

If  her  career  seems  far  removed  from  her  WPI  course 
work,  Lutz  says  she  still  uses  skills  she  developed  back  then. 
"I  learned  about  how  to  think  and  not  think  linearly,  to 
think  in  a  lot  of  different  directions,"  she  says  of  her  college 
training.  "I  learned  to  multitask." 

Inside  the  barns,  Lutz  has  tapped  into  her  engineering 
skills  to  design  a  flexible  system  of  partitions  that  responds 
to  the  changing  needs  of  the  herd.  Expectant  mothers  are 
housed  together.  A  newborn  like  Ajax  will  spend  a  day  in 
a  bonding  pen  with  its  mother,  listening  to  her  buzzes  and 


-Lutz  reaches  for  a 


clucks,  so  that  the  two  can  get  to  know  one  another  before 
entering  the  bustle  of  alpaca  society. 

Outdoors,  Lutz  strings  fences  and  opens  gates  to  create 
a  rotating  series  of  pastures  for  the  animals.  In  the  winter 
months,  when  the  alpacas  tend  to  be  indoors,  and  babies 
aren't  being  born,  she  haunts  an  upstairs  room  filled  with 
puffy  garbage  bags.  These  contain  the  treasure  for  which 

alpacas  are  rightly  famous:  a  tawny 
rainbow  of  fleece  so  soft  and  luxuri- 
ous it  makes  wool  feel  like  sandpaper. 
She  and  her  husband  shear  all  the 
animals  during  the  springtime,  leav- 
ing them  with  coats  that  resemble 
furry  corduroy.  In  her  off  hours  and 
off  months,  Lutz  grades  the  fleece, 
which  might  end  up  in  a  several- 
thousand-dollar  Italian  suit  or  rug  or 
blanket,  depending  on  its  fineness. 

Cas-Cad-Nac  Farm,  whose 
name  means  Ascutney  in  the  Abenaki 
Indian  language,  has  won  many 
prizes  for  its  fleece  and  its  animals 
in  shows  across  the  country,  and  the 
Lutzes  sell  both  from  their  Vermont 
home.  Jennifer  Lutz's  office  is  brimming  with  purple  ribbons, 
as  well  as  trophies  featuring  metal  sculptures  of  curly-haired 
alpacas.  A  road  trip  to  shows — such  as  the  Nationals  held  in 
Louisville,  Ky.,  in  May — is  a  production  involving  a  truck 
and  a  trailer  that  is  a  work  of  art  in  itself.  A  larger-than-life- 
size  image  of  alpacas — Reality,  Evangeline,  Lustroso, 
Buttercup,  and  a  young  Sexy  Sadie  (so  named  because  that 
was  the  song  playing  when  she  was  born) — along  with  Sam 
Lutz  as  a  toddler,  adorns  the  exterior  of  the  vehicle.  The 
vinyl  picture,  produced  by  a  Utah  company  that  usually 
wraps  buses,  not  livestock  trailers,  captures  the  essence  of 
the  passengers  riding  inside.  On  the  highways  of  America, 
this  might  be  the  first  encounter  drivers  have  had  with 
alpacas.  But  as  Lutz  knows  well,  these  creatures  are  not 
easily  forgotten.  D 


Transformations    |    Summer  2007     39 


AlumniConnections 


Bill  Krein  '62  is  owner  of  CREDO,  LLC,  in  Woodstock,  Vt.  He  is  a 

former  entrepreneur-in-residence  at  WPI  and  currently  serves  as  an 

adjunct  faculty  member  for  the  management  department  and  the  corporate  and  professional 

education  division.  He  begins  his  term  of  office  at  an  exciting  time,  ready  to  usher  in  a  new 

era  of  alumni  activism  under  a  newly  restructured  organization. 


Can  you  comment  on  the  importance  of  the 
Alumni  Association?  Why  get  involved? 

When  you  graduate  from  WPI,  not  only  do  you  go  into  the 
world  with  an  education,  you  also  enter  with  a  reputation. 
In  the  professional  world,  you  are  received  with  all  the 
approbation  earned  by  the  WPI  alumni  who  came  before 
you  and  have  been  successful  in  their  careers.  Now,  because 
you  enjoyed  that,  it  follows  that  you  have  an  obligation  to 
contribute  to  that  legacy.  By  that  I  mean  it's  important  to 
roll  up  your  sleeves  and  engage  yourself  in  WPI,  so  that  you 
further  its  reputation  for  the  people  who  come  after  you.  It's 
not  just  about  coming  back  for  Homecoming  and  Reunion. 
It's  a  self-perpetuating  cycle.  Those  word-of-mouth  success 
stories  about  WPI  graduates  will  help  other  alumni  in  their 
careers.  And  the  more  alumni  hear  about  those  successes — 
in  Transformations,  for  example — the  more  they  appreciate 
WPI,  and  the  more  inclined  they  are  to  support  the  univer- 
sity so  it  can  have  that  kind  of  impact  on  the  lives  of  others. 

This  is  a  time  of  great  change  for  the  Alumni 
Association.  How  will  you  build  on  that  progress? 

My  predecessor,  Morgan  Rees  '61,  led  the  design  work  on 
the  new  structure  for  the  alumni  organization  and  initiated 
the  implementation.  Now  it's  time  to  get  it  working  and 
demonstrate  its  effectiveness.  As  president-elect,  Joyce  Kline 
'87  is  chairing  a  group  that  will  define  how  the  Alumni 
Association  will  be  constituted  as  the  central  presence  for 
all  alumni  programs  and  interest  groups.  In  addition,  mem- 
bers of  the  association's  Board  of  Directors  are  working  on 
revisions  to  the  bylaws.  Certainly,  we  want  to  keep  up  the 
momentum  that  the  Alumni  Office  has  generated — drawing 
together  alumni  all  over  the  country — with  its  dynamic 
schedule  of  regional  events  and  town  meetings.  We  also 
want  to  capitalize  on  the  energy  created  by  the  launch  of 
the  new  AlumniConnect  online  community,  with  interactive 
features  for  alumni  to  remain  engaged  with  each  other  and 
with  WPI. 


What's  important  to  know  about  the  new 
Alumni  Association? 

Our  goal  is  to  strengthen  the  relationship  between  the 
Association  and  the  WPI  administration.  It's  more  than  just 
a  new  organizational  chart;  it's  a  new  way  of  thinking  about 
alumni  involvement.  We're  looking  at  how  and  where  we  can 
contribute  on  a  more  strategic  level.  With  increased  Office  of 
Alumni  Relations  staffing  to  handle  operations,  the  board  is 
freed  up  to  function  in  more  of  an  advisory  capacity,  focusing 
on  strategy  and  direction. 

We're  also  responding  to  the  need  for  broader  represen- 
tation. Instead  of  just  a  few  key  committee  chairs  doing  all 
the  work,  we'll  have  18  to  20  members-at-large,  each  with 
several  areas  of  interest.  Technology  allows  us  to  cut  down 
on  the  frequent  on-campus  meetings.  That  opens  it  up  to 
alumni  who  live  outside  the  local  area  or  those  who  may 
not  have  much  time  to  attend  meetings. 

Career  development  has  been  a  priority  for  you, 
given  your  involvement  with  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. What  can  alumni  expect  in  that  area? 

Over  the  last  four  years  I've  spent  time  reinforcing  the  concept 
that  WPI  must  support  its  graduates  throughout  their  careers. 
I'm  excited  by  the  fact  that  we  have  a  new  Career  Development 
Center  director  who  understands  lifelong  career  involvement, 
and  a  firm  commitment  of  resources  from  the  administration. 
Right  now  we  are  engaged  in  recruiting  a  dedicated  staff 
member  who  is  skilled  in  assisting  alumni  at  all  stages  of  their 
working  lives.  You'll  also  notice  expanded  online  resources, 
including  a  Career  Services  area  as  part  of  the  new  online 
community,  and  a  link  to  job  postings,  accessible  through 
The  Bridge,  WPI's  monthly  alumni  enewsletter. 

What's  the  best  way  to  stay  on  top  of  all  this? 

Register  at  the  new  alumni  site:  alumniconnect.wpi.edu. 
If  you  need  a  password  or  other  assistance,  contact 
alumni-office@wpi.edu. 


40     Transformations    \    Summer  2007 


Reunion  Weekend  2007 

Even  the  rain  couldn't  dampen  the  mood  during  Reunion  Weekend  2007,  held  June  7-10.  Alumni  from 
the  classes  of  '42,  '47,  '52,  '57,  '62,  '67,  '72,  '77,  and  '82  celebrated  their  respective  reunions  with 
receptions  and  banquets,  and  by  reuniting  with  old  friends.  Activities  and  events  during  the  weekend 
included  the  annual  Reunion  Parade,  campus  tours,  and  Alumni  College  sessions  led  by  WPI  faculty 
and  administrators.  President  Dennis  Berkey  accepted  generous  class  gifts,  and  select  alumni  were 
celebrated  with  distinguished  awards.  View  more  photos  at  alumni.wpi.edu. 


Transformations    |    Summer  2007     41 


Clc      Notes 


Staying  Connected  with  Old  Friends 

Material  for  Class  Notes  comes  from  newspaper  and  magazine  clippings,  press  releases, 
and  information  supplied  by  alumni.  Due  to  production  schedules,  some  notes  may  be  out 
of  date  at  publication,  but  may  be  updated  in  future  issues.  Please  allow  up  to  6  months  for 
your  news  to  appear  in  print.  Submit  your  Class  Note  at  www.wpi.edu/+Transformations 
or  alumni-editon@wpi.edu.  You  may  fax  it  to  508-831-5820,  or  mail  it  to  Alumni  Editor, 
Transformations,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 


o- 


-•JB-    Oi  »=■««.    ->a 


1930s 


Morton  Fine  '37  of  Rock}-  Hill,  Conn., 
discussed  his  career  in  forensic  engineering 
with  his  local  newspaper.  Rocky  Hill  Life.  In 
1950,  he  rounded  Morton  S.  Fine  .Associates, 
which  grew  to  60  employees.  He  also  served 
as  executive  director  of  the  national  Council 
of  Engineering  Examiners.  He  now  main- 
tains a  one-man  practice,  with  an  office  at 
Inwood  Business  Park,  in  Rocky  Hill. 


1940s 


Noel  Maleady  '40  lives  in  Ladera  Ranch. 
Calif.  The  Ladera  Post  ran  a  front  page  story 
on  his  many  volunteer  activities.  He  works 
at  the  local  animal  shelter,  makes  pastor  vis- 
its at  Mission  Hospital,  helps  with  the  sum- 
mer arts  festival,  and  is  a  member  of  several 
other  organizations.  He  was  also  instrumen- 
tal in  getting  bus  service  for  his  area. 
Ralph  Smith  '43  was  one  of  several  sharp- 
eyed  readers  who  noticed  an  error  in  the 
previous  issue  of  Transformations,  which 
reversed  the  order  of  buildings  in  a  1 933 
photo  of  the  WPI  Quad.  He  shared  memo- 
ries of  living  in  Sanford  Riley,  (a  "fairly 
new"  dorm  at  the  time),  and  working  as  a 
monitor  in  the  front  lobby,  where  the 
dorms  single  telephone  was  located.  "I 
would  sit  at  the  desk  from  "to  11  p.m., 
with  duty  to  answer  the  phone,  go  find  the 
student  (no  elevators),  try  to  control  disci- 
pline, and  lock  the  doors  at  1 1 ,  when  all  the 
students  were  supposed  to  be  in.  How  times 
have  changed!" 

A  "Legend  for  Lunch"  tribute  to  Richard 
Whitcomb  '43  was  held  May  1".  200".  by 
the  .American  Institute  of  Aeronautics  and 
.Astronautics,  to  commemorate  his  contribu- 
tions to  the  development  of  powered  flight. 


A  portrait  of  Whitcomb  has  been  commis- 
sioned to  hang  in  the  First  Flight  Society  s 
museum,  and  a  fly-over  in  his  honor  is 
being  planned. 

Kim  Woodbury  '44  used  his  WPI  educa- 
tion to  poke  fun  at  Bostons  Big  Dig  woes. 
In  a  letter  to  Telegram  &  Gazette  columnist 
Sid  McKeen.  he  proposed  a  simple  solution, 
which  was  shared  with  readers  in  McKeen's 
popular  column,  "Wry  and  Ginger. 
Oatmeal.  Woodbury  suggests,  once  dried 
onto  cereal  bowls,  sticks  permanently,  is 
insoluble  in  water,  and  costs  a  lot  less  than 
the  ineffective  materials  that  were  used. 
"When  I  went  to  school."  Woodbury  wrote, 
"a  bolt  was  always  fastened  with  a  nut."  He 
also  suggests  that  his  WPI  classmates  might 
have  known  better  than  to  have  designed 
an  air  duct  ceiling  with  three-ton  cement 
panels. 

Andrew  Goettmen  '47  and  his  wife. 
Dorothy,  moved  to  Benson.  N.C. 

Dan  Sheingold  '48  is  editor  of  Analog 
Dialogue,  which  recently  celebrated  its  40th 
year  of  continuous  publication  in  print  and 
its  eighth  year  online,  at  analog.com/ analog- 
dialogue.  Dan,  an  IEEE  fellow,  has  been  the 
magazines  editor  since  1969. 

Albert  Soloway  '48.  author  oi  Failed 
Grade — the  Corporatization  and  Decline 
of  Higher  Education,  was  profiled  in  the 
Columbus,  Ohio,  Xew  Standard.  A  former 
professor  and  dean,  he  is  retired  from  Ohio 
State  University. 


1950s 


After  retiring  from  a  career  in  marketing 
and  consulting,  which  included  29  years 
with  Monsanto,  Dick  Davis  '51  has  ful- 
filled his  dream  of  entering  the  healthcare 


Sm 


profession.  At  age  65  he  graduated  magna 
cum  laude  from  Logan  College  of  Chiro- 
practic and  has  been  in  practice  in  St.  Louis 
for  1 3  years.  Dick  plans  to  retire  to  a  rural 
farm  setting  in  the  next  year  or  two.  His 
website,  chiropractichealthcare.net.  includes 
articles  on  various  aspects  of  the  profession. 

At  his  "5th  birthday  celebration  at  The 
Boynton.  Don  Campbell  '53  received  his 

very  own 
WPI  goat 
from  class- 
mate Jack 
Flynn.  as 
well  as  a 
certificate 
from  WTI's 
"Growing 
Older 
Gracefully' 
department. 
We  all  feel 

so  fortunate  to  be  able  to  celebrate  togeth- 
er." Don  says,  "since  my  fading  recollection 
of  the  50th  Reunion  includes  the  reading  of 
the  list  of  Class  of  53  members  who  didn't 
make  it  that  far."  Jack  reports  that  the  WPI 
goodies  were  the  hit  of  the  part}'. 

Roy  Stone  '56  is  retired  from  a  career  in 
computer  programming  and  continues  as  a 
home-based  consultant  in  Wilton,  N.H.  In 
a  recent  feature  in  the  Nashua  Telegraph,  he 
shared  memories  from  his  50  years  in  the 
computer  industry  and  described  the  "elec- 
tronic evolution"  from  vacuum  tubes  and 
punch  cards  to  today's  compact  PCs. 


4  2     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


1960s 


After  seven  months  in  Liberia,  Richard 
Brewster  '60  is  now  in  Gambia,  as  part  of  a 
Merc)'  Ships  medical  mission  team.  He  and 
his  wife,  Susan,  have  been  volunteers  since 
retirement. 

Hank  Allessio  '61  was  awarded  a  place  in 
the  Auto  International  Association's  Hall 
of  Fame  at  the  AIA's  Silver  Anniversary 
Celebration  in  Las  Vegas.  Hank,  a  longtime 
member  of  the  AIA  board  of  directors  and  a 
former  Person  of  the  Year,  is  managing 
director  of  Walden  Consultants  Ltd. 

The  Passive  Solar  House  by  James  Kacha- 
dorian  '61  is  now  in  its  second  edition, 
with  a  CD-ROM  full  of  plans,  worksheets, 
and  formulas  to  help  owners  design  energy- 
efficient  homes. 

Jesse  Erlich  '62,  formerly  a  partner  at 
Perkins  Smith  &  Cohen  LLP  and  a  member 
of  the  firm's  Science  &  Technology  Group, 
has  become  a  partner  at  Burns  &  Levinson 
LLP  of  Boston,  as  result  of  the  attorneys  of 
the  former  firm  joining  the  latter.  He 
recently  presented  a  workshop  on  intellectu- 
al property  and  patents  for  WPI's  Office  of 
Research  Administration. 

Fred  Molinari  '63  shared  his  wisdom 
with  WPI  students  at  the  September 
2006  Dinner  with  Entrepreneurs  held  at 
Higgins  House.  He  is  president  of  Data 
Translation  in  Marlborough,  Mass. 

Jim  Fee  '65  presented  an  e-workshop  on 
turning  breakthrough  ideas  into  demon- 
strable products  this  spring,  through 
WPI's  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneur- 
ship  and  Innovation. 

John  Lauterbach  '66  runs  Lauterbach 
&  Associates,  an  independent  company 
specializing  in  the  chemistry  and  toxicol- 
ogy of  tobacco  products  and  related 
materials,  in  Macon,  Ga.  He  also  serves 
as  a  consultant  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society's  Committee  on 
Economic  and  Professional  Affairs  and  as 
program  chair  for  its  Division  of  Small 
Chemical  Businesses.  He  has  made  presenta 
tions  to  the  society,  and  to  the  Tobacco 
Science  Research  Conference  and  the 
CORESTA  Congress  in  Paris. 

Richard  Liebich  '66  received  a  2006 
Community  Laureate  Award  from  the 
University  at  Albany  Foundation. 


Bob  Demers  '68 

caught  this  35-pound 
Ayakulik  King 
Salmon  in  Kodiak, 
Alaska,  on  his  annual 
fishing  expedition.  He 
has  plans  with  several 
other  WPI  alums  for  Silver  Salmon  fishing 
in  August,  at  Unalakleet,  an  Eskimo  village 
near  the  Arctic  Circle.  Bob  is  a  clinical  spe- 
cialist in  the  Respiratory  Care  Dept.  of 
Stanford  University  Medical  Center. 

Donald  Scott  '68  (PhD)  published  The 
Electric  Sky:  A  Challenge  to  the  Myths  of 
Modern  Astronomy.  A  lifelong  amateur 


astronomer,  he  uses  electric  universe/plasma 
cosmology  to  dispute  the  existing  Big  Bang 
and  "Gravity  Only"  paradigm  of  prevailing 
cosmology.  He  is  a  former  professor  of  elec- 
trical engineering  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Amherst.  Find  out  more  at 
electric-cosmos.org. 

Joel  Cehn  '69  recently  returned  from 
Kuwait,  where  he  was  involved  in  an  envi- 
ronmental project.  "Uranium  ordnance 
served  the  U.S.  military  well  in  Gulf  War  I, 
but  littered  the  country,"  he  writes.  "The 
Kuwaitis  are  cleaning  it  up  with  U.S.  help. 
I'm  finding  the  work  personally  satisfying." 


End  of  an  Era 

A  dynamic  chapter  of  WPI's  history  concluded  this  summer  with  the  retirement  of  university 
vice  president  Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66.  Devoting  his  entire  career  to  his  alma  mater,  Steve 
Hebert  started  as  assistant  alumni  director  in  1969  and  later  served  as  director  of  develop- 
ment, treasurer  and  secretary  of  the  corporation,  and  vice  president  for  administration.  A 
listing  of  the  many  hats  he's  worn  at  WPI  would  barely  scratch  the  surface.  "Although  it's  hard 
to  define  exactly  what  it  is  you  do,  everyone  agrees  that  we  couldn't  do  it  without  you,"  read 
his  2006  citation  for  the  William  R.  Grogan  Award  for  Support  of  the  Mission  of  WPI. 

As  SJH,  he  presided  over  the  institution's  financial  well-being,  guided  the  board  of  directors, 
and  managed  campus  services  for  all  who  lived,  studied,  and  worked  at  WPI.  He  was 

instrumental  in  making 
the  Alumni  Association 
an  integral  part  of  the 
university.  He  formed  close 
bonds  with  alumni  of  all 
ages  and  helped  them 
realize  the  importance 
of  supporting  their  alma 
mater. 


Steve  Hebert  leaves  behind 
a  very  different  campus 
from  the  one  he  attended. 
The  visible  developments 
include  the  Carol  Hebert 
Garden,  at  Higgins  House, 
in  memory  of  his  first  wife; 
Reunion  Plaza,  made 
possible  through  his 

persistent  work  with  the  City  of  Worcester  to  have  West  Street  closed  to  traffic;  the  Campus 
Center;  and  Gateway  Park.  Although  he  shouldered  responsibility  without  fanfare,  everyone 
who  knows  him  knows  he  would  shrug  off  taking  the  credit.  Steve  and  his  wife,  Deb,  stand  out 
as  loyal  friends  and  supporters  of  WPI.  His  good  humor,  generosity,  and  humble,  down-to- 
earth  nature  will  be  missed  by  all. 

"I  will  not  attempt  to  summarize  all  that  Steve  has  accomplished,  and  all  those  members  of  the 
staff  he  has  nurtured  and  supported,  during  the  many  chapters  of  WPI's  development  in  which 
he  has  played  key  roles,"  President  Dennis  Berkey  said.  "Suffice  it  to  say  that  his  service  has 
been  characterized  by  a  very  strong  loyalty  to  WPI,  and  to  those  entrusted  with  its  leadership, 
and  that  his  contributions  will  have  lasting  value  in  many  ways  for  years  to  come." 


Transformations    \    Summer  200"     A3 


Ed  Mierzejewski  '69  is  director  of  the 
Center  for  Urban  Transportation  Research 
at  the  University  of  South  Florida.  The  cen- 
ter's 100  employees  serve  as  a  resource  for 
cities  all  over  the  United  States,  looking  into 
everything  from  highway  traffic  patterns  to 
public  transit  innovations.  The  Tampa 
Tribune  featured  some  recent  projects, 
which  include  remote  mini-helicopters  to 
monitor  traffic  and  an  "elevated  people 
mover"  in  Miami. 

Mahendra  Patel  '69  is  a  project  manager 
for  the  MBTA,  after  31  years  with  electric 
power  utilities.  A  former  vice  president  of 
ASME's  Boston  Section,  he  says  the  regional 
meetings  held  in  Worcester  were  "like 
homecoming"  for  him.  He  and  his  wife  are 
also  involved  in  Asian  Indian  groups. 
"Currently  I  serve  as  president  of  the  ethnic 
'Patel'  community  in  the  New  England  area, 
helping  promote  its  unique  culture  and  her- 
itage. I  welcome  correspondence  from  my 
eood  old  friends  from  WPI." 


1  97fk 


Robert  Byrne  '71  and  Lorri  Lind  Caruso 

'73  were  married  on  Oct.  21,  2006.  They 
live  in  Warwick,  R.I. 

When  U.S. 
Magistrate  Judge 
Paul  Cleary  '71 
(Northern  District 
of  Oklahoma) 
hired  an  intern  last 
summer,  he  didn't 
learn  until  after  the  fact  of  a  WPI  connec- 
tion. Jessica  John  Bowman  is  the  daughter 
of  Tom  John  '75  (MS)  of  St.  Petersburg, 
Fla.  Jessica  received  a  chemical  engineering 
degree  from  the  University  of  Oklahoma 
and  is  now  a  law  student  at  the  University 
of  Illinois. 

Cutler  Associates  president  Frederic 
Mulligan  '71  was  appointed  to  the  board 
of  the  Massachusetts  Port  Authority. 

Bob  Sinicrope  '71  was  the  inaugural  recipi- 
ent of  the  John  LaPorta  Jazz  Educator  of  the 
Year  Award  at  the  International  Association 
for  Jazz  Education  Conference.  A  former 
student  of  LaPorta's,  Bob  is  founder  and 
director  of  the  jazz  program  at  Milton 
Academy. 

Maryann  Bagdis  Goebel  '73  joined  DHL 
Express,  a  division  of  Deutsche  Post,  last 
year  as  the  division's  global  chief  informa- 
tion officer.  "I  relocated  to  Cologne, 
Germany,  in  February  2007,"  she  writes, 


"but  have  kept  my  condo  in  Fort 
Lauderdale.  I  spend  most  of  my  time  on  the 
road,  visiting  our  five  global  regions  and  our 
parent  company  in  Bonn." 

Roger  Lavallee  '73  was  recently  elected  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  BEACON 
(Biomedical  Engineering  Alliance  and 
Consortium),  a  nonprofit  trade  organization 
consisting  of  corporations  and  academic  and 
medical  institutions  dedicated  to  the  devel- 
opment of  medical  technology  as  an  eco- 
nomic engine  for  the  Hartford,  Conn., 
region,  and  beyond.  He  is  vice  president 
and  director  of  business  development  at 
Phoenix  Asset  Management. 

Bruce  '73  and  Allison  Huse  Nunn  '73 

reside  on  the  South  Shore  of  Nova  Scotia, 
where  Bruce  is  VP  and  resident  manager  of 
the  Bowater  Mersey  Paper  Company,  and 
Allison  volunteers  at  the  Queen's  Manor 
senior  residence  and  at  the  SHAJD  Animal 
Shelter.  Their  oldest  child,  Will  Nunn  '99, 
was  married  in  2006.  Their  youngest,  April 
Nunn  '04,  works  as  a  medical  physicist  in 
Alaska,  and  their  middle  child,  Heather  (a 
Willamette  U.  graduate)  lives  in  Seattle. 
"We  are  always  interested  in  hearing  from 
classmates  and  Nova  Scotia  is  a  great  place 
to  visit,"  they  write. 

Alden  Bianchi  '74  was 

named  co-chair  of  the 
ERISA  Committee  of  the 
Boston  Bar  Association's 
Tax  Section. 

James  Briggs  '74  retired 
from  the  federal  govern- 
ment in  2006  and  is  now  employed  by  the 
Delaware  Valley  Regional  Planning 
Commission  in  Philadelphia. 

Kara  (Hogan)  Buzanoski  '74  was  appoint- 
ed public  works  director  for  the  town  of 
Northborough,  Mass.,  which  has  been  her 
employer  since  1990  and  her  hometown 
since  1979. 

Lou  Ciercielli  '74  and  his  wife,  Lois,  own 
Bellows  House  Bakery  in  Walpole,  N.H. 

Steve  Dacri  '74  performed  recently  at  the 
Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood. 

Michael  Hartnett  '74,  chairman,  president, 
and  CEO  of  RBC  Bearings,  was  recently 
appointed  to  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the 
University  of  New  Haven. 

Peter  Thacher  '74  works  in  the  planning 
department  of  Saudi  Armaco  in  Dhahran, 
Saudi  Arabia.  His  wife,  Sarah,  works  in  the 
law  department.  Recently  back  from  vaca- 
tions in  Russia  and  Austria,  they  invite 


friends  to  visit  them  in  the  Middle  East. 

Jon  Anderson  '75  was  appointed  by 
Vermont  Gov.  Jim  Douglas  to  fill  a  vacancy 
in  the  Vermont  House,  which  meets  part 
time.  A  democrat,  he  represents  the  state's 
capital  city  of  Montpelier.  Jon  runs  Betsy's 
Bed  and  Breakfast  with  his  wife  and  contin- 
ues his  law  practice  at  Burak  Anderson  & 
Melloni,  PLC. 

Bob  Fried  '75  is  now  self-employed  as  a 
consultant  to  the  discrete  semiconductor 
industry,  after  23  years  with  General  Semi- 
conductor. He  and  his  wife,  Meryl,  live  in 
Plainview,  N.Y.  They  have  two  sons. 

Larry  Jones  '75,  former  CEO  and  presi- 
dent of  Activant  Solutions  was  elected  to 
the  board  of  directors  of  StarTek  Inc. 

Gary  LaLiberty  '75  lost  his  wife,  Deborah 
Jacobs-LaLiberty,  last  year.  He  lives  in 
Grand  Island,  N.Y.,  and  has  two  sons  and 
a  daughter. 

Joseph  Dzialo  '76  is  president  of  the  Lee 
brand  for  VF  Jeanswear  LP. 

After  graduating  from  WPI,  Mark  Johnson 

'76  earned  a  graduate  degree  from  the 
University  of  Maine,  and  then  worked  his 
way  across  America  with  his  family.  He 
writes,  "My  career  includes  executive  engi- 
neering, environmental,  and  management 
positions  with  water  utilities  in  Connecti- 
cut, Illinois,  and  now  in  Southern  Cali- 
fornia, where  I  serve  as  director  of  engineer- 
ing for  the  Coachella  Valley  Water  District. 
I  estimate  that  about  Si. 2  billion  of  infra- 
structure was  constructed  under  my  direc- 
tion." Mark  holds  PE  registration  in 
Connecticut  and  California. 

Tom  McAloon  '76  and  his  wife  of  22  years, 
Beverly,  are  currently  residing  in  Male, 
Maldives.  Tom  has  been  the  Red  Cross 
water/sanitation  delegate  for  Maldives  since 
September  2006,  managing  the  installation 
of  small-bore  sewer  and  ocean  outfall  sys- 
tems for  six  islands  damaged  during  the 
2004  tsunami.  Tom  and  Bev  welcomed  their 
first  grandchild,  Asher,  into  the  world  just 
before  leaving  for  Maldives. 

David  Sawyer  '76  (PhD)  was  presented 
with  a  framed  certificate  of  appreciation 
by  the  Portsmouth,  N.H.,  Amateur  Radio 
Club,  for  teaching  a  sequence  of  introducto- 
ry, mid-level,  and  advanced  courses  in  com- 
munications theory  and  practice.  He  and  his 
wife,  Nancy,  continue  to  enjoy  hiking  in  the 
nearby  White  Mountains. 

Robert  Cundall  '77  is  deputy  director  of 
finance  and  operations  for  the  Seattle  Art 


44     Trans  format  i  ons    \    Summer  2007 


Museum.  He  was  a  finalist  in  the  Puget 
Sound  Business  Journal  %  2007  CFO  of  the 
Year  competition. 

Paul  Curdo  '77  of  Tucson  helped  coordi- 
nate a  mini-reunion  of  ATO  brothers  from 
the  Class  of  1977.  "The  five  of  us  had  a 
great  time/  he  writes.  "It's  been  about  30 
years  since  we've  seen  each  other. 

Steven  Fine  '77  married  Eileen  Mushin  in 
June  2006.  They  reside  in  Derby,  Conn., 
with  Eileen's  three  children — Andrew,  15, 
Alyssa,  12,  and  Jenna,  10,  and  Steven's 
daughter,  Destany,  8.  Steven  remains  at 
Laticrete  International  (his  20th  year)  as  a 
senior  product  development  chemist.  He 
was  recently  elected  secretary/treasurer  of 
the  Methods  and  Materials  Standards 
Association  for  the  ceramic  tile  industry. 

Personnel  from  the 
Harrington  Group,  the 
FPE  firm  founded  by 
Jeff  Harrington  '77,  led 
efforts  to  unite  interna- 
tional standards  of  excel- 
lence for  safety  and 
health  professionals  during  a  meeting 
between  the  Board  or  Certified  Safety 
ProfessionaJs  (BCSP)  and  the  Singapore 
Institute  of  Safety  Officers  (SISO)  in 
Singapore  in  May  2007,  which  resulted  in 
the  signing  of  a  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  (MOU)  between  the  two 
organizations. 

Bruce  Minsky  '77  was 

appointed  associate  dean 
and  professor  of  radiation 
and  cellular  oncology  at 
the  biological  Science 
Division,  Pritzker  School 
of  Medicine,  University 
of  Chicago,  and  chief  quality  control  officer 
for  the  University  of  Chicago  Medical 
Center.  In  2004,  he  received  an  honorary 
doctorate  from  the  Friedrich  Alexander 
University  in  Erlangen.  Germany,  for  his 
work  on  gastrointestinal  cancer. 

John  Woodhull  '77  is  an  environmental 
process  engineering  manager  at  ENSR. 
He  was  recently  appointed  to  the  editorial 
advisory  board  of  Pollution  Engineering 
magazine. 

Ron  Fish  '78  received  an  MBA  from  RPI 
in  September  2006.  He  lives  in  Circleville, 
N.Y.,  and  works  for  WMG  Inc. 


Reunion   Ot   SebaCJO   Lake   Scott  Sieburth  '77  writes.  "In  September 
1973,  I  lived  on  the  third  floor  of  Morgan,  with  Michael  Sullivan  and  Steve  Albino 
across  the  hall.  One  of  our  RAs  was  Jon  Anderson  '75.  Heres  a  recent  photo  of  the  four 
of  us  hanging  out  at  what  we  refer  to  as  "Beer  Camp  at  Steves  place  in  Maine."  (From 
left,  Jon,  Michael,  Steve,  and  Scott.) 


Reunion   in   Sedona   A  Class  of  "~8  reunion  in  .Arizona  last  year  included 
(from  left)  Larry  Hindle,  Chris  Cocaine  '77,  Brian  Clang,  Laurence  Shiembob, 
David  Sartorelli,  and  Peter  Landry. 


Thomas  Gudewicz   ~8. 

MD.  is  a  founding 
member  or  the  American 
Board  of  Disaster  Medi- 
cine, offering  training 
and  certification  to  help 
physicians  prepare  for 


Bernice  (Albetski)  Hicks  '78  received  her 
MLS  degree  from  Emporia  State  University 
in  December.  She  is  a  reference  librarian  at 
Lafayette  Public  Library  in  Colorado. 

John  McGee  '78  was  appointed  a  full-time 
instructor  in  the  mathematics  and  statistics 
department  at  Radford  University.  He 


emergencies. 


Transformations    \    Summer  200        AS 


Bookshelf 


Recent  and  new  publications  by  WPI  alumni,  faculty;  staff 
Southern  New  England's  Future  Thirst:  The  Second  Drop 

by  Thomas  S.  Baron  '64    RoseDog  Books 


SOUTHERN 

■    I    \M)N 
II    II  Kl     IIIIKSI 


Following  up  on  his  first  book,  A  Central  Lakes  Region  Solution,  Baron 
provides  detailed  explanations  of  the  initial  steps  needed  to  implement 
a  regional  plan  for  meeting  the  water  demands  of  the  future  by  sharing 
resources,  rather  than  competing  for  them.  Baron  is  a  former  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers  officer  and  former  director  of  operations  for  the 
Boston  Metro  Water  System.  His  proposal  for  a  tri-state  regional  plan 
was  published  in  the  September  2005  Journal  of  the  New  England 
Water  Works  Association. 

Innovation:  The  Five  Disciplines  for  Creating 
What  Customers  Want 

by  Curt  Carlson  '67  and  William  W.  Wilmot   Crown  Business 

"Innovation  is  the  process  of  creating  and  delivering  new  customer  value 
in  the  marketplace,"  writes  Carlson.  As  CEO  of  SRI  International,  he  has 
looked  deeply  into  the  processes  by  which  companies  create  and  launch 
innovative  products.  His  book  outlines  a  tried-and-true  methodology  for 
fostering  creativity  and  understanding  what  customers  really  value  and 
need.  Business  Week  named  Carlson's  book  one  of  the  Best  Business 
Books  of  2006. 


Software  without  Borders:  A  Step-by-Step  Guide  to 
Outsourcing  Your  Software  Development 

by  Steve  Mezak  '78    Earthrise  Press 

This  hands-on,  how-to  guide  includes  chapters  on  selecting  an 
outsourcing  vendor,  developing  metrics,  protecting  intellectual  property, 
and  more.  The  appendix  offers  an  outsourcing  strategy  decision  matrix 
and  a  readiness  test.  Professor  Rick  Vaz  writes,  "WPI  is  a  pioneer  in 
producing  internationalized  engineers.  Talent  recognizes  no  borders. 
Well-educated,  technically  adept  software  developers  around  the  world 
are  available  to  deliver  reliable  software  quickly  and  inexpensively. 
And  this  book  shows  you  how  to  connect  with  them."  Professor  David 

Cyganski  is  credited  in  the  acknowledgements.  Mezak  is  founder  and  CEO  of  Accelerance 

Inc.  and  a  veteran  of  six  start-ups. 

Tracking  Trash:  Flotsam,  Jetsam,  and  the  Science  of 
Ocean  Motion 

by  Loree  Griffin  Burns  '91    Houghton  Mifflin  Co. 

Boston  Globe-Horn  Book  Award-2007  Honor  Book  (Nonfiction) 

When  hundreds  of  Nike  sneakers  started  washing  up  on  beaches  in 
Seattle  in  1 990,  a  maverick  oceanographer  tracked  them  back  to  a 
cargo  spill  and  began  to  analyze  their  dispersal.  Tracking  Trash,  part 
of  the  "Scientist  in  the  Field"  series  for  middle  school  readers,  explains 
some  of  the  unorthodox  methods  used  to  study  ocean  currents,  including 
beachcomber  networks,  rubber  ducks,  and  computer  simulation.  With  lively  stories,  vivid 
photography,  and  attractive  graphics,  Burns  explores  the  growing  problem  of  manmade 
debris  in  our  oceans,  the  threat  to  marine  habitats,  and  the  consequences  for  humanity. 
She  holds  a  doctorate  in  biochemistry  from  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  School 
and  is  at  work  on  her  next  book  for  children. 


SOFTWARE 

without 
BORDERS 


^> 


received  his  master's  from  Virginia  Tech 
with  the  thesis  topic  "Rena  Schoof's 
Algorithm  for  Determining  the  Order  of 
the  Group  of  Points  on  an  Elliptic  Curve." 

John  Petze  '78  was  appointed  CEO  of 
Privaris  Inc.,  a  wireless  biometric  security 
firm  in  Charlottesville,  Va. 

Steve  Rusckowski  '79  is  CEO  of  Phillips 
Medical  Systems  in  Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. 


1 


980 


Chris  Dennison  writes,  "I'm  proud  to 
announce  my  recent  marriage  to  the  fabu- 
lous Barbara  Gorman,  which  also  brings  me 
three  great  step-grandchildren,  Laura, 
Patrick,  and  Bridget.  After  a  long  time  liv- 
ing in  the  shadows  of  NYC,  I  moved  myself 
and  my  business  to  the  suburbs,  which  is  a 
bit  of  a  change,  but  also  a  lot  of  fun.  I 
almost  feel  like  a  grownup  now!" 

Steve  Kmiotek  of  EBI  Consulting  received 
the  Air  &  Waste  Management  Association's 
Leadership  and  Contribution  Award. 

Mark  Lewis  and  his  wife,  Louise,  live  in 
Amador  County,  Calif.,  with  their  three 
sons  and  daughter.  They  have  a  new  grand- 
child, Elizebeth  Ann,  born  Aug.  23,  2006, 
to  their  son,  Stephen,  and  his  wife,  Crystal. 

Singer/songwriter  Martin  Rowe  strikes 
again  with  another  blues  anthem  for  engi- 
neers. Go  to  tmworld.com/blues  to  down- 
load "The  Lab  in  the  Corner,"  a  tribute  to 
the  "the  test  guy,"  who  has  the  final  say  on 
product  release.  You  can  also  listen  to  his 
first  hit,  "Measurement  Blues." 

John  Titus  and  his  wife,  Beth,  are  pleased 
to  announce  the  birth  of  Nora  Marie  on 
Feb.  6,  2006.  "It's  interesting  having  a  new- 
born again,"  he  writes.  They  live  in 
Lonsdale,  Minn. 


1981 


Elly  Cromwick  and  her  new  husband, 
Joseph  Tierney,  live  in  Washington,  D.C. 
Elly  is  a  preconstruction  manager  with 
Turner  Construction's  mid-Atlantic  office 
and  is  pursuing  a  master's  degree  at  Virginia 
Tech.  She  has  two  sons — Tom,  who  starts 
college  this  fall,  and  Devin,  a  high  school 
junior. 

Mati  Weiderpass,  co-creator  of  Watch 
World  International,  sold  that  business  in 
2000,  after  expanding  from  a  single  store  to 
119  locations  in  6  years.  He  and  his  partner, 
Ian  Reisner,  plowed  the  proceeds  into  The 


Carnegie  Hotel  in  New  York  City,  which 
sold  for  a  record  $1  million  per  hotel  room, 
plus  $800  per  developable  foot  for  the 
development  site.  Parkview  Towers,  a  condo 
development  plan  featuring  multimillion- 
dollar  apartments  with  Central  Park  views, 
is  in  the  works,  and  the  two  are  moving  on 
to  a  100-unit  condo  complex  tentatively 
called  Chelsea  Heights,  and  a  200-room 
hotel  project  in  Midtown. 


area  and  want  to  do  some  fishing,  just  give 
me  a  ring!"  The  Bob's  Outdoors  website 
(bobsoutdoors.com)  also  posts  reports  of 
Bob's  own  hunting  and  fishing  adventures. 

Cynthia  Kosciuczyk  founded  Designer 
Tastes  Gallery,  to  offer  a  synthesis  of  inter- 
national artists  working  in  varied  media. 
Her  October  2006  open  house  featured  a 
taste  of  Greek  art  and  culture. 


Seasonal  Sports 


At  left, 

Bob  Millington  '90, 
Stefan  Heline  '86, 
Mike  Kelly  '86,  and 
Mike  Gonsor  '86, 
cheer  on  the  Red  Sox 
with  the  Boston  Regional 
Chapter  in  August  2006. 


At  right, 

John  McNamara  '85, 

Tom  Denney  '86,  Heline, 

and  Gonsor  at  the  top  of 

the  Bridger  Gondola  at 

Jackson  Hole  Mountain 

Resort  in  Wyoming. 

John  lives  in  Lexington, 

Mass.,  and  is  VP, 

operations,  and 

treasurer  for  Arlington 

Coal  &  Lumber.  Tom 

lives  in  Marion,  Mass., 

and  is  regional   director  for  The  Hanover  Company.  Stefan  lives  in  Hebron, 

Conn.,  and  is  principal  consultant,  IT,  with  Pratt  &  Whitney.  Mike  also  lives  in 

Hebron,  and  is  a  program/contract  manager  with  Pratt  &  Whitney. 


1982 


Tom  Fiske  is  a  member  of  the  automation 
consulting  team  at  ARC  Advisory  Group  in 
Dedham,  Mass.  He  is  a  contributing  editor 
for  Hydrocarbon  Processing. 

George  Oliver  was  named  president  of  Tyco 
Safety  Products.  He  is  based  in  Boca  Raton. 


Eric  Peterson  earned  his  MS  though  RPI's 
Hartford  campus  in  August  2006  and  hopes 
to  enter  the  PhD  program  soon.  He  contin- 
ues at  Hasbro  in  East  Longmeadow,  Mass., 
as  vice  president  of  electronic  engineering 
and  technology  development.  "My  three 
boys  and  my  wife,  Colleen,  continue  to  be 
my  support  and  motivation,"  he  writes. 


1983 


1984 


Bob  Hicks  writes,  "I  have  ditched  the 
corporate  world  to  sell  fishing  tackle.  If  any 
of  my  old  classmates  are  in  the  Michigan 


Todd  Cimino  is  president  of  Cimino  & 
Assoc,  a  management  consulting  firm  serv- 
ing the  oil  and  gas  industry.  Todd  and  his 


wife,  Diane,  live  in  Houston,  with  their 
children,  Marcello,  8,  and  Marina,  4. 

John  McNamara  coaches  the  girls'  basket- 
ball team  at  Pentucket  Regional  High  School 
in  West  Newbury,  Mass.  His  daughter,  Erin, 
is  a  point  guard. 

Scott  Rudge  received  the  Merriam  Wiley 
Distinguished  Author  Award  from  the 
American  Society  of  Engineer  Educators 
for  his  book,  Bioseparation  Science  and 
Engineering. 

Keith  Ruskin  was  recently  promoted  to 
professor  of  anesthesiology  and  neuro- 
surgery at  Yale  University  School  of 
Medicine.  He  lives  in  Westport,  Conn., 
with  his  wife,  Andrea,  and  son,  Daniel,  8. 

Richard  Testa  is  a  partner  in  the  new 
Lincoln,  Mass.,  office  of  Lincoln  Architects 
LLC. 

1985 

"Greetings  from  the  Pacific  Northwest," 
writes  Denise  Johnston-Hafenbrack,  who 

has  left  Blount  to  become  supply  chain 
manager  for  Micropump/Idex  Corp.,  in 
Vancouver,  Wash.  "My  daughters  are  both 
in  high  school;  Kaitlin  is  14,  and  Carly,  17, 
will  be  leaving  for  college  in  September. 
Time  flew  by!  When  I'm  not  at  work,  I  am 
watching  them  play  basketball,  cooking,  and 
plotting  my  next  trip  back  to  New  England. 
I  sure  miss  snow,  Dunkin'  Donuts  coffee, 
and  Cape  Cod!" 

Michael  Smith  (MSEE) 

has  been  named  dean  of 
Harvard  University's 
Faculty  of  Arts  and 
Sciences.  He  was  previ- 
ously the  Gordon  McKay 
Professor  of  Computer 
Science  and  Electrical  Engineering.  He  also 
served  as  associate  dean  for  computer  sci- 
ence and  engineering  during  a  transforma- 
tional time  for  Harvard's  new  School  of 
Engineering  and  Applied  Sciences. 


1986 


Jim  Baum,  formerly 
with  Parmetric  Tech- 
nology Corp.  and 
Endeca,  was  appointed 
president  and  COO  of 
Netezza,  a  data  ware- 
house company  in 


Framingham,  Mass. 


Trans  forma  t  i  o  n  s    \    Summer  2007     47 


Mike  Duquette  runs  operations  for  Insulet 
Corp.,  an  insulin  pump  company  in 
Bedford.  Mass.  "Nanette  and  I  still  enjoy 
the  city*  or  Worcester,  as  we  live  in  nearby 
Shrewsbury  with  our  four  children. 

David  Lugowski  received  tenure  and  pro- 
motion to  associate  professor  of  English  at 
Manhattanville  College,  in  Purchase,  N.Y, 
not  rar  from  New  York  City.  He  also  serves 
as  director  of  the  interdisciplinary 
Communication  Studies  program,  which 
had  its  major  approved  by  New  York  State 
this  past  year. 

Donna  Barone  Viens  writes,  "After  16  years 
in  engineering,  including  a  two-year  stint  in 
Belgium  for  Pratt  &  Whitney,  I  left  the  cor- 
porate world  for  teaching.  I  am  now  a  high 
school  math  teacher  at  Wilbraham  & 
Monson  Academy,  where  I  coach  varsity 
volleyball.  My  daughter,  Jeannette,  is  an  8th 
grader  at  the  school,  and  is  following  in  my 
footsteps  as  a  volleyball  player.  My  son, 
Jack,  is  a  6th  grader  who  has  his  mom's 
math  and  science  genes.  Id  love  to  hear 
from  classmates  at  dlvstateside@msn.com. 


1987 


Air  Force  Lt.  Col.  James  Berry  commands 
the  485th  Intelligence  Squadron  at  Mainz- 
Kastel  Station  in  Wiesbaden,  Germany. 

Ari  Chaney  joined  \\  aterPartners 
International  s  board  of  directors.  He  is 
president  and  founder  of  Leveraged 
Restructuring.  LCC.  in  Jupiter,  Fla. 

Mike  Shipulski  was  named  2006 
Distinguished  DFMA  Supporter  of  the  Year, 
honoring  a  dedicated  user  and  promoter  of 
Design  for  Manufacture  and  Assembly  soft- 
ware. An  article  on  Mike's  team  at 
Hypotherm  Inc.  appeared  in  the  July  17, 
2006  issue  of  Design  News. 

Steve  Woodard  was 

promoted  to  senior  vice 
president  at  Woodard  & 
Curran,  where  he  special- 
izes in  industrial  waste 
treatment  and  biological 
nutrient  removal  processes. 


1 988 

Robert  Frommer  was  appointed  senior  vice 
president  and  Basel  II  program  manager  at 
Citizens  Bank. 

Gayle  Harris,  MD,  (MS  BBT)  joined 
Collins  Medical  Associates  2  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  A  graduate  of  the  University  of 
Connecticut  School  of  Medicine,  she  has 
been  practicing  in  the  Hartford  area  for  six 
years. 

Lt.  Col.  Rob  Provost  is  commander  of 
the  614th  Space  Intelligence  Squadron, 
Yandenberg  AFB,  in  California,  where  his 
wife,  Cindy  (also  a  Lt.  Col.),  is  assigned  to 
the  30th  Space  Wing  Plans  and  Programs 
office.  Rob  also  runs  a  fly-fishing  destina- 
tion business,  Grand  Slam  Fly-fishing 
Destinations  (grandslamflyfishing.com), 
specializing  in  hosted  trips  to  premier  fresh- 
water and  saltwater  destinations  around  the 
world. 


Move  Ahead  by  Coming  Back 

With  an  MBA  from  WPI  you  can  accelerate 
your  career  and  discover  greater  opportunities. 

(But  don't  take  our  word  for  it 


AACSB  International: 
Highest  Level  of  Business  School  Accreditation 


The  Princeton  Review: 

•  Top  10  "Greatest  Opportunities  for  Women"  past  three  years 

♦  #9  "Best  Career  Prospects" 


Business  2.0: 
•  #9  "Where  Your  Career  Prospects  Are  Brightest 


48     Trans for  ma  t  i  ons    \   Summer  2007 


1989 


Jennifer  Chiao  (MS  EE)  is  a  principal 
design  engineer  in  the  library  development 
group  of  Broadcom  in  Irvine,  Calif. 

Adam  Pease  started  Articulate  Software,  a 
consultancy  specializing  in  open  source 
ontology,  in  2003.  He  has  published 
research  papers  on  topics  such  as  linguistics, 
ontology,  and  group  collaboration.  Last  year 
he  climbed  California's  Mt.  Shasta  with 
Dave  Rothkopf  '90,  and  has  made  several 
attempts  on  Mt.  Aconcagua  in  Argentina. 
Learn  more  about  his  business  and  his 
climbs  at  articulatesoftware.com. 


1990 


Al  Alonzi  and  his  wife,  Susan,  happily 
announce  the  birth  of  their  second  child, 
Elizabeth  Addison,  on  Aug.  28,  2006.  They 
live  in  Austin,  Texas,  where  Al  is  the  deputy 
division  administrator  of  the  Federal 
Highway  Administration  Texas  Office. 

Ken  Comey  and  his  wife,  Julie,  are  proud 
to  announce  the  birth  of  their  first  son, 
Joseph  William,  on  July  13,  2006.  They  live 
in  Redondo  Beach,  Calif,  where  Ken  is  a 
member  of  BP  America's  Environmental 
Compliance  and  Advocacy  Team. 

Paul  Dombrowski 

joined  Woodard  & 
Curran  as  a  vice  presi- 
dent in  the  Cheshire, 
Conn.,  office. 


Former  wrestling  captain  Brian  Glatz  has 
moved  on  to  coaching  and  teaching  at 
Cherokee  High  School  in  Marlton,  N.J. 
After  breaking  his  neck  in  a  judo  competi- 
tion in  1991,  he  was  immobilized  for 
months  and  had  to  learn  to  walk  again. 
A  profile  in  the  New  Jersey  Post  Courier 
described  his  comeback  as  a  geometry 
teacher,  wrestling  assistant,  and  varsity  root- 
ball  coach. 

Nancy  (McLaughlin)  Kazmer  and  her 

husband,  David,  welcomed  a  baby  girl. 
Catherine  Marie,  on  June  22,  2006. 
She  joins  her  big  sisters — Laura,  8,  and 
Elizabeth,  4 — at  their  home  in  North 
Andover,  Mass. 

Miklos  Kiss  completed  a  postdoctoral 
research  associate  position  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Medical  Physics  at  the  University  or 
Wisconsin-Madison.  He  is  now  a  research 
engineer  at  Volcano  Corp.,  in  Cleveland,  on 
the  campus  of  the  Cleveland  Clinic.  He  is 


th 


n  tne 

Public  Eye 


Flying  magazine  cited  Dick  Whitcomb  '43  in 

an  article  on  the  design  of  Honda's  new  light  jet. 

Whitcomb  is  famous  for  developing  the  "area  rule" 

and  other  advances  in  modern  aerodynamics  ... 

Bruce  Maccabee  '64  was  interviewed  by  the 
History  Channel  for  a  documentary  on  UFOs,  and  by  Raiders  News  Network 
for  a  60th  anniversary  series  of  the  1947  Roswell,  N.M.,  incident  ...  Curt  Carlson  '67 
was  quoted  in  a  Sunday  New  York  Times  Magaxine  cover  story  on  the  "Greening  of 
Geopolitics"  ...  Dean  Kamen  '73  was  honored  with  a  2006  Global  Leader- 
ship Award  from  the  United  Nations,  along  with  Bill  Clinton.  Kamen  was  dubbed  "The 
Father  of  Inventions"  in  a  Ne\  interview  ...  WPI  Director  of  Computing  Services 

Ben  Thompson  '73  was  appointed  to  Mass.  Gov.  Deval  Patrick's  Public  Safety  and 
Security  working  group,  charged  with  developing  the  new  gubernatorial  administration's 
policy  agenda  for  the  transition  ...  Business  Week  described  the  success  of  Nandi 
Infrastructure  Corridor  Enterprise  Ltd.,  the  company  in  India  of  Ashok  Kheny  '74  (MS  MSR) 
...  Dean  Stratouly  '74  was  profiled  in  Boston  Business  Journal  ...  Judy  Nitsch  '75 
was  a  panelist  in  three  sections  of  the  BuildBoston  2006  convention  and  trade  show. 
Her  firm,  Nitsch  Engineering,  was  named  Best  Civil  Engineering  Firm  to  Work  For  by 
CE  News,  and  Employer  of  the  Year  by  WTS  Internatii  nal  ...  Terese  Kwiatkowski  '83 
was  profiled  in  the  Boston  Herald.  A  former  president  of  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers,  she  is  senior  vice  president  and  principal  at  GZA  GeoEnvironmental  Inc.  ... 
Karen  Tegan  Padir  '90  was  named  one  of  Mass  High  1  ech's  Women  to  Watch.  She  is 
vice  president  of  enterprise,  Java  platforms,  for  Sun  Microsystems  ...  Sarah  Arsenault  '98 
was  among  the  New  Faces  of  Engineering  selected  for  National  Engineers  Week.  A  profile 
in  the  Hartford  Courant  emphasized  her  commitment  to  environmentally  friendly  design 
in  her  work  as  senior  research  engineer  at  UTC  ...  "French  Vanilla,"  a  comedy  by  Catherine 
"Cat"  Darensbourg  '02  and  Elliot  Field  '02,  was  selected  for  the  32nd  annual  Samuel 
French  Off-Off  Broadway  Original  Short  Play  Festival  in  New  York  City. 
The  performance  was  directed  and  produced  by  WPI  students,  with  a  cast  of  New  Voices 
veterans  ...  A  video  podcast  on  Romiya  Glover  '04  was  part  of      rGBH-TV's  "Profiles  in 
Science"  Web  series.  The  video  shows  Glover  at  work  in  her  lab  at  PointCare  Technologies, 
in  Marlborough,  Mass.,  where  she  is  developing  a  new  HIV/AIDS  testing  device,  and  in 
Harrington  Auditorium,  coaching  the  WPI  cheerleader  squad  ...  Business  Week  profiled 
DynDNS  CEO  Jeremy  Hitchcock  '04  and  mentioned  co-head  Tom  Daly  '04  ...  ParkingBan.org, 
the  creation  of  Adam  Epstein  '05  and  Mike  Terranova  '06,  was  featured  in 
Magazine.  The  site  helps  Worcester  residents  stay  on  top  of  snow  emergency  parking  ... 
"Life  of  Fred,"  a  comic  strip  by  Tom  Roy  '05  was  mentioned  in  a  Worcester 
Gazette  article  that  also  described  Roy's  career  as  a  filmmaker  and  physicist  ...  The 

tette  ran  a  moving  story  about  the  quest  of  Patrick  Spencer  '05  to  help 
homeless  people.  He  is  the  son  of  one  of  the  firefighters  killed  in  the  1999  Worcester  Cold 
Storage  warehouse  fire  started  by  two  homeless  people  who  had  taken  shelter  there  ... 
Joanna  Bridge  '07  was  commissioned  as  a  Navy  ensign  by  President  George  Bush  in  a  May 
1  7  ceremony  at  the       hite  House. 


Tra  n  sfo  rmat  ions    \    Summer  200        A  9 


conducting  research  on  ultrasound  catheters 
used  in  the  detection  and  diagnosis  of 
atherosclerosis. 

Patti  Newcomer-Simmons  and  her  hus- 
band, Stan,  had  a  son,  Weldon  Mason,  on 
April  25,  2006,  just  two  months  after  Patti 
started  a  new  job  as  CMO  of  the  Card 
Services  business  at  Wachovia.  Their  daugh- 
ter, Megan,  turned  3  this  past  May.  They 
live  in  Charlotte,  N.C. 

Albert  Prescott,  president  of  Crescent 
Innovations  in  Worcester,  won  the  2006 
WPI  Venture  Forum  Business  Plan  Contest 
with  his  proposal  to  develop  a  polymer  gel 
to  relieve  the  pain  of  TMJ  and  other  joint 
conditions.  He  also  received  the  2007 
Kalenian  Award,  which  includes  $25,000  to 
develop  prototypes  and  move  the  technology 
to  commercialization. 

Edward  Urquhart  is  CEO  of  Maerkisches 
Werk  Halver,  GmbH,  where  he  oversees 
operations  in  Germany,  Korea,  Japan,  China, 
and  the  United  States.  He  recently  joined 
the  board  of  directors  of  SulphCo  Inc. 

Ron  Skoletsky  and  his  wife,  Marie,  and 
family  moved  to  Portland,  Ore.,  to  become 
owners  and  operators  of  The  Little  Gym  of 
Lake  Oswego.  They  now  spend  their  days 
growing  motor  skills  and  building  confidence 
in  children  ages  4  months  to  12  years. 


1991 


Loree  Griffin  Burns  was 

awarded  a  grant  from  the 
Society  of  Children's  Book 
Writers  and  Illustrators 
for  her  next  book  project. 
(See  the  Bookshelf 
column  for  her  latest 
publication,  a  Horn  Book  honorable  men- 
tion.) She  writes,  "Stay  tuned... and  visit 
loreeburns.com  for  more  info." 

WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Famer  Brian  Daly 
ran  the  2007  Boston  Marathon  on  behalf 
of  his  son,  Michael,  to  raise  awareness  of 
pediatric  epilepsy.  He  reports  that  Michael 
is  doing  well  and  has  been  seizure-free  for 
nearly  three  years.  Learn  more  at  firstgiving 
.org/daly2007. 

Joel  McCarroll  and  his  wife,  Andrea,  had 
their  second  child,  Ryan,  on  Jan.  15,  2007. 
Joel  continues  as  region  traffic  manager  for 
ODOT  Region  4,  based  in  Bend,  Ore. 


Duane  Morin  is  chief 
architect  for  Connect 
Edu  Inc.,  a  Boston-based 
company  that  helps 
students  and  schools 
through  the  college 
application  process  with 
a  variety  of  online  tools. 

Eric  O'Connor  writes  with  this  recap:  "I've 
been  living  in  Portland,  Ore.,  with  my  part- 
ner, Laura  Taylor,  since  2005.  I'm  working 
as  a  senior  software  developer  for  Adobe's 
Mobile  &  Devices  Group,  building  client/ 
server  applications  to  deliver  dynamic  Flash 
content  to  handsets.  I  work  from  home  and 
travel  down  to  the  San  Francisco  office 
occasionally.  In  my  spare  time,  I  play  in 
two  rock  bands." 

1992 

Scott  Ashton  started  a  new  position  as  vice 
president,  aircraft  acquisitions,  at  PrivatAir 
in  Stratford,  Conn.,  selling  corporate  jets. 
He  was  also  elected  vice  president  of  the 
New  England  Air  Museum  and  selected  as 
a  member  of  Hartford  Business  Journats  40 
Under  Forty  class  of  2006. 

Kevin  Chin  and  his  wife,  Nina,  are  the 
proud  parents  of  Amanda  Natalie,  born 
Dec.  28,  2006.  Her  brother,  Tyler,  was  born 
in  2005.  They  live  in  Northern  Virginia, 
outside  Washington,  D.C.,  where  Kevin 
and  Nina  both  work  for  Lockheed  Martin. 

Lyle  Coghlin  and  Patrick  Tompkins  are 

co-owners  of  CTA  Construction  in  Boston. 
Their  current  projects  include  schools  and 
municipal  buildings  throughout  New 
England. 

Teri  (Drake)  Hamlin  recently  became 
NASA's  technical  lead  for  the  Space  Shuttle 
probabilistic  risk  assessment.  She  lives  in 
Texas  with  her  husband,  Rick,  and  their 
two  children,  Emily  and  Stevie. 


1993 


Peter  Cavallo  and  his  wife,  Gail  Speakman, 
announce  the  arrival  of  twin  daughters,  Sara 
and  Michaela,  on  Sept.  27,  2006.  The  girls 
join  big  brother  Daniel,  3.  Professionally, 
Peter  was  recently  named  an  associate  fellow 
of  the  American  Institute  of  Aeronautics 
and  Astronautics. 

Rhonda  (Ring)  and  Philip  Marks  had 

their  third  child,  Harry  Philip,  in  November 
2004.  He  joins  his  big  sisters  Caroline  and 


Charlotte  in  their  Chester  Springs,  Pa., 
home.  Philip  is  manager  of  U.S.  product 
development  at  Federal-Mogul  Systems 
Protection  Group,  and  Rhonda  works  from 
home  as  a  Web  consultant. 

Stephen  Tomas  was  promoted  to  director, 
flexible  electronics,  at  FLEXcon  Co.  in 
Spencer,  Mass. 

Hermine  Valizadeh  joined  the  Electrical  &C 
Computer  Group  of  Brinks  Hofer  Gilson  & 
Lione  in  Chicago.  A  former  IT  consultant 
and  a  graduate  of  New  England  School  of 
Law,  she  will  focus  on  patent  prosecution 
and  litigation. 


1994 


Peter  Berube  and  his  wife,  Tricia,  welcomed 
the  birth  of  their  son,  Ryan  Dennis,  on  June 
2,  2006.  Peter  is  currently  a  major  in  the 
United  States  Air  Force,  stationed  at  Shaw 
AFB,  S.C.  He  was  assigned  to  the  9th 
AF/CENTAF  in  2005,  after  completing  a 
two-year  assignment  as  an  AFROTC 
instructor  at  DET  340  at  WPI. 

Chad  Council  lives  in  Londonderry,  N.H., 
with  his  wife,  Lora,  and  their  retired  racing 
greyhound,  Keeper.  He  works  for  Motorola 
as  a  senior  software  engineer  on  the  network 
element  management  aspect  of  the  compa- 
ny's Fiber  to  the  Premises  project.  Chad  has 
expanded  his  involvement  with  FEMA's 
MATF 1  Urban  Search  &  Rescue  by  com- 
pleting training  to  become  a  communica- 
tions specialist. 

Christy  (Hinkley)  Deliberto  and  her  hus- 
band, Buddy,  recently  opened  Pop's  Pizza  in 
Worcester's  Tatnuck  Square.  They  announce 
the  birth  of  daughter  Ashley  Soozie  on  May 
8,  2005.  "Please  come  visit  the  pizza  shop 
when  you  are  in  town!" 

Kevin  Hunt  is  general  manager  of  VIA,  a 
new  "Italian  comfort  food"  restaurant  on 
Shrewsbury  Street  in  Worcester.  He  previ- 
ously worked  for  two  popular  Worcester 
eateries — The  Sole  Proprietor  and  One 
Eleven  Chop  House. 

Dena  Niedzwiecki  married  Diego  Mechoso 
on  Sept.  2,  2006,  with  Becca  (Mason) 
Yang  in  the  wedding  party.  Dena  is  a  pedia- 
trician practicing  in  Arcadia,  Calif;  Diego  is 
a  pediatric  hospitalist  at  Valley  Presbyterian 
Hospital  in  Van  Nuys. 

Matthew  Thibodeau  and  his  wife,  Jody, 
recently  moved  to  San  Luis  Obispo,  Calif. 
Matt  is  working  as  an  energy  efficiency  con 
sultant  for  VaCom  Technologies  and  is 


50     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


enjoying  the  beautiful  weather  and  scenery 
in  the  central  coast  region  of  California.  A 
multiple-time  USA  Triathlon  All-American, 
Matt  continues  to  compete  in  triathlons  and 
recently  notched  his  eighth  overall  victory  at 
the  San  Luis  Obispo  Triathlon. 


1995 


Jeff  Baron  and  his  wife,  Kim,  are  pleased  to 
announce  the  birth  of  their  second  daugh- 
ter, Rachel  Grace,  on  July  24,  2006.  She  was 
welcomed  by  her  big  sister,  Sarah,  who  is 
enjoying  being  mommy's  helper.  They  live 
in  Worcester. 

Kathryn  Chelini  (MS  MG)  joined  the  law 
firm  of  Mirick  O'Connell  as  an  associate  in 
the  intellectual  property  group. 

Jay  Cimini  and  Paul  Gassier  have  been 
working  together  at  W.  L.  Gore  in  Ellkton, 
Md.,  for  more  than  a  decade.  They  both 
drive  used  Mercedes-Benzes  that  they  con- 
verted to  run  on  vegetable  oil.  A  recent  arti- 
cle on  them  in  the  Chester  County  Press  bore 
the  headline  "Two  amazing  young  men  and 
their  veggie-mobiles." 

Spence  Cocanour  is  stationed  at  USAF 
Hurlburt  Field  in  Florida,  where  he  serves  as 
director  of  operations  for  the  23rd  Special 
Tactics  Squadron. 

Heather  (Linnehan)  Desmarais  and  her 
husband,  Dale,  had  a  son,  Jaden  Dale,  on 
April  28,  2006.  "Big  sister  Kyla  is  thrilled 
to  have  a  new  baby  brother,"  she  writes. 

Maj.  Neil  Doherty,  USAF,  married  Dana 
Brown  on  June  15,  2006.  Neil,  an  assistant 
professor  of  military  science  at  BU,  joined 
the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Gulf  Region 
Division,  Iraq,  in  July  2006. 

Kristin  Kotopoulis  Garland  (right)  and 
Kimberley  Quigley  Caserta  are  consulting 
safety  officers  at  Safety  Partners  Inc.,  provid- 
ing safety  support 
and  development  to 
life-sciences  compa- 
nies in  the  greater 
Cambridge  area. 
This  year,  Safety 
Partners  made 
Working  Mother 
magazine's  list  of  top 
25  small  companies  for  working  mothers. 
"Working  in  high  tech  and  raising  a  family 
is  very  difficult,"  says  Kristin.  "Kim  and  I 
were  fortunate  to  find  a  company  where  we 
could  put  our  WPI  education  to  use  and 
still  be  there  for  our  children." 


Deb  (Long)  Marceau  and  her  husband, 
Tim,  proudly  announce  the  birth  of  their 
first  child,  Riley  Elizabeth,  on  March  18, 
2006.  They  live  in  Virginia. 

Kevin  Shea  received  the  Sherrerd  award  for 
distinguished  teaching  from  Smith  College, 
where  he  is  assistant  professor  of  chemistry. 


1996 


Paul  Cabral  has  been  an  environmental 
engineer  with  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee  for 
more  than  nine  years.  He  recently  trans- 
ferred to  the  Albany,  N.Y.,  office,  where  he 
focuses  on  drinking  water  projects. 

Katie  Daly  received  her  MBA  from  Babson 
College  in  May  2006.  She  is  group  manager 
of  program  management  in  the  Oncology 
Division  of  Boston  Scientific. 

Rachel  (Butland)  Delisle  received  her 
MBA  from  WPI  in  February  2006.  She 
is  a  Six  Sigma  engineer  for  Karl  Storz 
Endovision  in  Charlton,  Mass.  Rachel  and 
her  husband,  John,  were  married  in  2000 
and  live  in  Dudley. 


1997 


Jeffrey  Cayer  and  his  wife,  Shari-Ann,  both 
teach  chemistry  at  Trumbull  High  School  in 
Connecticut.  They  were  married  in  2005. 

Craig  French  joined  Tighe  &  Bond  as  man- 
ager of  the  structural  department.  He  lives 
in  Belchertown,  Mass. 

Hector  Hernandez  was  appointed  IT  man- 
ager of  the  Dominican  Republic  operations 
of  Edwards  Lifesciences.  He  lives  in  Santo 
Domingo  with  his  wife,  Sandra. 


Friday-Saturday,  September  28-29 


Shannon  Hogan  and  Matthew  Hollander 
became  engaged  on  March  5,  2006.  They 
are  both  third-year  pediatrics  residents: 
Shannon  practices  at  Connecticut  Children's 
Medical  Center  in  Hartford,  and  Matthew 
is  serving  in  the  Air  Force  at  Wright- 
Patterson  AFB  in  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Chris  Jamieson  left  the  Naval  Air  Warfare 
Center  in  February  for  a  new  job  as  an  avia- 
tion systems  evaluator  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Evaluation  Center.  He  was  recently 
deployed  to  Baghdad  for  six  months  as  team 
evaluator  for  the  Army  Operational  Test 
Command  Forward  Operational  Assessment 
Team.  He  also  moved  to  a  condo  in  down- 
town Washington. 

Peter  Manolakos  and  his  wife,  Ani,  proudly 
announce  the  arrival  of  their  son,  Niko 
George.  Peter  was  promoted  to  executive 
oncology  sales  specialist  for  Eli  Lilly.  They 
reside  in  Chelmsford,  Mass. 

Deb  (Foley)  McManus  and  her  husband, 
Steve,  welcomed  their  first  child,  Patrick 
Peter,  on  Sept.  9,  2006. 

Stephanie  Torrey  married  John  Vuk  on 
Oct.  21,  2006.  After  honeymooning  in  New 
Zealand,  they  now  reside  in  Sherbrooke, 
Quebec,  Canada. 

Jennifer  (Clark)  (MS  '00,  PhD  '02)  and 
Bill  Weir  (MS  '97,  PhD  '02)  have  been 
blessed  with  a  son,  Joseph  Robert,  born 
Aug.  5,  2006,  in  Worcester. 

Jason  Wening  is  clinical  research  director 
for  Scheck  &  Siress  Orthotics  &  Prosthetics. 
He  recently  spoke  with  schoolchildren 
about  his  own  prosthetics  and  showed 
videos  from  his  competitive  swimming 
career. 


Transformations    \    Summer  2007     51 


-s  Notes 


Anne  (Ciccolo)  and  Donald  Ziniti  '96 

welcomed  their  second  child,  Marcus 
Charles,  on  Feb.  17,  2006.  Big  sister  Sophia 
is  2.  Don  works  at  Johnson  &  Johnson,  and 
Anne  writes  that  she  is  enjoying  being  a 
stay-at-home  mommy. 


1998 


Jeff  Alderson  was  pro- 
moted to  director,  strate- 
gic partnerships,  for 
Connect  Edu  Inc.  in 
Boston,  which  provides 
online  tools  to  help  stu- 
dents apply  to  college 
and  helps  schools  track  the  process.  He  was 
the  fifth  employee  to  join  the  startup,  which 
has  grown  to  more  than  50  employees  Jeff 
and  his  wife,  Sara  (Maska)  '04  (see  her 
note  under  2004),  reside  in  Brighton, 
Mass.,  with  their  two  cats,  Ace  and  Venti. 

After  eight  years  of  active  duty,  Lt.  Slade 
Brocket  transitioned  to  the  Naval  Reserve. 
His  active  duty  included  service  aboard  two 
submarines — the  USS  Providence  and  the 
USS  Ohio.  He  also  served  on  the  staff  of 
Commander,  US  Naval  Forces  Europe,  in 
London.  Slade  is  now  a  project  engineer 
with  BP  at  the  Cherry  Point  Refinery.  He 
and  his  wife,  Mary,  live  near  Blaine,  Wash., 
with  their  children,  Annika  and  Emma. 

Doug  Davis 

and  his  wife, 
Nevriye, 
announce  the 
birth  of  their 
first  son,  James 
Preston,  on 
Dec.  27,  in 
Izmir,  Turkey,  where  Doug  works  as  a  con- 
tract performance  manager,  and  Nevriye 
practices  law. 

Stephen  Fong  is  assistant  professor  and 
head  of  the  Evolutionary  Engineering 
Laboratory  at  Virginia  Commonwealth 
University. 

Michael  and  Rosanna  (Catricala)  '99 

Glynn  are  thrilled  to  announce  the  birth  of 
their  first  child,  Thomas  Michael,  on  Sept. 
28,  2006.  They  live  in  Cromwell,  Conn. 

Jason  Hutt  (2nd 
from  left)  poses 
with  the  ISS  crew 
he  trained  for 
Expedition  14 
aboard  the  Russian 
spacecraft  Soyuz 
13S.  The  record- 


setting  215-day  mission  returned  to 
Baikanor  Space  Center  in  Kazahkstan  on 
April  21,  2007.  As  station  training  lead, 
Hutt  spent  two  years  preparing  the  ISS  crew 
for  emergencies  such  as  fire,  power  failure, 
depressurization,  and  malfunctions  of  the 
ship's  life-support  system  and  computer  sys- 
tems. "It's  somewhat  ironic  to  spend  75  per- 
cent of  my  time  training  the  crew  for  things 
I  hoped  they'd  never  have  to  do,"  he  says. 
During  the  grueling  training  period,  the 
crew  traveled  back  and  forth  between 
Houston  and  Star  City,  Russia.  Hutt  and  his 
team  conducted  training  sessions,  simula- 
tions, and  performance  evaluations,  and 
monitoring  the  crew's  on-orbit  performance 
to  identify  areas  where  training  could  be 
improved  for  the  next  mission. 

Jill  Baryza  LeFevre  and  her  husband, 
Gene,  welcomed  their  second  child,  Robert 
Anthony,  on  Sept.  12,  2006.  Big  sister 
Gabriella  is  happy  with  the  new  addition  to 
their  Peekskill,  N.Y.,  home,  Jill  reports. 


Ray  Halpin  '99 

is  WPI's  new 
GOLD  Chair.  The 
Graduates  of  the  Last 
Decade  Committee 
works  with  the 
Alumni  Association 

to  foster  strong  bonds  between  young 

alumni  and  WPI. 

As  incoming  chair,  Ray  works  with  co- 
chair  Eric  Marshall  '02  and  past  chair 
Jami  Walsh  '97  to  lead  a  committee 
of  representatives  from  each  class.  They 
are  looking  to  recruit  new  committee 
members  and  launch  regional  subgroups. 
If  you  graduated  between  1997  and 
2007,  you  are  a  GOLD  member!  To  get 
involved,  contact  gold@wpi.edu. 


1999 


Katie  Taylor  Boyd  graduated  from  Albany 
College  of  Pharmacy  in  May  2006  with  an 
accelerated  doctor  of  pharmacy  degree.  She 
graduated  summa  cum  laude,  earning 
awards  in  both  pharmacology/medicinal 
chemistry  and  pharmacy  practice.  Katie  now 
works  for  Molloy  Medical  Arts  Pharmacy 
as  a  clinical  pharmacist.  She  lives  in 
Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.,  with  her  husband, 
Kevin  Boyd,  a  process  engineer  at  IBM. 

Ed  Cameron  and  his  wife,  Laurie,  had  a 
daughter,  Isabelle  Anna,  on  Jan.  27,  2006. 
Ed  was  promoted  to  lieutenant  with  the 


Round  Lake,  N.Y.,  fire  department. 

Linda  (Cappuccia)  Grelotti  and  her  hus- 
band, Rob  Grelotti  '98  are  pleased  to 
announce  the  birth  of  Katherine  Luisa  on 
Aug.  15,  2006.  Linda  is  a  lawyer  for  the 
State  of  Connecticut,  and  Bob  is  a  staff 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney.  They  live  in 
East  Haddam,  Conn. 

Will  Nunn  married  Kerri  Lachance  on 
Dec.  30,  2006.  They  live  in  Rhode  Island, 
where  Will  works  for  Toray  Plastics  and 
Kerri  for  Electric  Boat. 

After  eight  years  in  the  Air  Force,  Pat 
O'Sullivan  works  for  The  Miter  Corp.  in 
Bedford,  Mass.,  as  a  senior  multi-discipli- 
nary systems  engineer. 


2000 


Former  crew  captain  Brittany  (Noga) 
Campbell  is  now  a  coach  at  The  Bromfield 
School  in  Harvard,  Mass. 

Kara  (Gibbs)  and  Kevin  Delaney  wel- 
comed their  first  child,  Colin  Gibbs 
Delaney,  on  July  29,  2006.  They  live  in 
Bloomington,  Ind. 

U.S.  Army  Lt.  Seth  Flagg  graduated  from 
Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine  in  May 
2006.  He  received  his  commission  upon 
graduation  and  is  currently  serving  his 
country  as  a  family  medicine  intern  at  Naval 
Hospital  Camp  Lejune  in  North  Carolina. 

Kirk  and  Christine  (Belushko)  Johnson 

live  in  Dayton,  Ohio,  with  their  children, 
Aidan,  4,  and  Erin,  2.  Kirk  is  an  Air  Force 
captain  stationed  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB. 

Thomas  Scherpa  and  Malinda  Danforth 

were  married  Sept.  24,  2005.  The  wedding 
party  included  Samuel  Bullock,  Jocelyn 
Songer,  and  Josef  Scherpa  '98.  Malinda 
received  her  MD  from  Dartmouth  Medical 
School  in  2005  and  is  currently  completing 
her  residency  in  pediatrics  at  Baystate 
Medical  Center.  Tom  completed  his  MS  in 
FPE  in  2002  and  is  currently  working  as  a 
process  safety  and  fire  protection  engineer 
for  DuPont.  They  live  in  Agawam,  Mass. 


2001 


After  they  moved  to  their  new  home  in 
Leominster,  Mass.,  Kevin  Beverage  pro- 
posed to  Kate  Wrigley,  a  staff  member  in 
WPI's  Academic  Technology  Center.  They 
are  planning  a  September  wedding,  to  be 
held  in  Stowe,  Vt. 


5  2     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


Class  Not* 


At  alumniconnect.wpi.edu  you  will  find  a  new  and  improved  searchable 
alumni  directory;  enhanced  networking  opportunities  based  on  your  profession, 
personal  interests,  geographical  area,  or  WPI  affiliation;  job  and  resume 
postings  exclusively  for  WPI  alumni;  up-to-the-minute  news  about  your  classmates; 
along  with  quick  and  easy  ways  to  register  for  WPI  events  or  make  a  gift  online. 
For  login  information,  contact  508-831-5600  or  alumni-office@wpi.edu. 


Eugene  Cushman  married  Chelsea 
Richards  on  Sept.  16,  2006.  Alumni  attend- 
ing their  Seattle  wedding  included  best  man 
George  Stuart  and  Eugene's  sister,  Anna 
Cushman  '91.  The  couple  honeymooned  in 
Hawaii  and  currently  resides  in  Arlington, 
Mass. 

Kathy 

(Pacheco) 

Czerwiec 

(right,  with  her 
buddy,  Karen 
Kohanek)  was 
honored  by 
Best  Buddies 
of  Western 
Massachusetts 
for  her  volun- 
teer service  as  a 
Citizen  Buddy — an  adult  who  shares  com- 
panionship with  a  person  with  intellectual 
disabilities.  Kathy  teaches  mathematics  at 
Chicopee  (Mass.)  High  School. 

Brooke  (LeClair)  and  Matthew  Daniels 

announce  the  birth  of  their  second  child, 
Elliott  Glenn,  on  Sept.  6,  2006.  They  and 
big  sister  Sophia  live  in  Norwood,  Mass. 


Ken  Gagne  participated 
in  the  MS  Challenge 
Walk  in  September  2006, 
along  with  several 
employees  of  WPI  and 
the  Mass  Academy.  After 
teaching  writing  and  film 
at  Mass  Academy  for  two  years,  he  now 
works  for  School  Year  Abroad.  Ken  com- 
pleted a  second  MQP  in  E-Term  2006, 
adding  a  humanities  major  with  a  concen- 
tration in  writing  and  rhetoric  to  his  '01  BS 
degree  in  technical  communications.  He 
also  serves  on  the  board  of  directors  of 
Calliope  Productions  Community  Theater. 

Jessica  Hoepf  and  Jeff  Costa  '02  were 
married  April  22,  2006.  (Jeff's  name  was 
incorrect  in  the  previous  issue  of  Transform- 
ations.) After  a  honeymoon  in  the  South 
Pacific,  they  now  live  in  Maiden,  Mass. 

Fang  Li  (MS  FPE)  is  founding  president  of 
the  China  Chapter  of  SFPE,  which  she 
helped  establish  last  year.  She  works  as  oper- 
ations manager  of  the  Shanghai  office  of 
Rolf  Jensen  &  Associates. 


Kenda  (Conklin)  Newton  works  at  NASA's 
Goddard  Space  Center.  She  married 
Jeremiah  Newton  last  year. 

Erica  (Lafont)  and  David  Philips 

announce  the  birth  of  their  first  child,  Adley 
James,  on  Aug.  7,  2006. 

Robyn  Prinsen  and  Jeffrey  Miller  and 

got  engaged  while  on  vacation  on  Kaua'i, 
Hawaii,  in  December  2006.  They  are  plan- 
ning an  autumn  2007  wedding. 


2002 


Army  Capt.  Marc  Bullio  returned  from  a 
16-month  deployment  in  Iraq  in  December 
2006.  He  served  with  the  177th  Stryker 
Brigade. 

2nd  Lt.  Alexander  Clifford  (04  MS)  is 

serving  at  Edwards  Air  Force  Research 
Laboratory  as  a  rocket  plume  signature 
research  engineer.  He  received  his  officer's 
commission  in  July  2006. 

Alexander  Haley  works  for  Meditech  as 
a  programmer  analyst.  He  and  his  wife, 
Emily,  live  in  Worcester. 

George  Hanlan  is  an  engineer  at  OFS 
Specialty  Photonics.  He  lives  in  South- 
bridge,  Mass.,  with  his  wife,  Laura,  a 
librarian  at  WPI's  Gordon  Library. 

Alison 
Hughes  and 
Jason  Katz  '01 

were  married 
Oct.  28,  2006. 
The  wedding 
^M  i     iM  I    party  included 

best  man  Ryan 
Johnson  '01, 
groomsmen 
Jim  Shannan 
'00  and  Brian 
Carelli  '00,  and  bridesmaids  Jaclyn 
McHugh  and  Kim  Morin.  The  couple  hon- 
eymooned in  Europe,  with  stops  in  Paris, 
Tuscany,  and  Rome.  They  currently  reside 
in  Ashland,  Mass. 

David  Jasinski  married  Adeline  Ashmore 
on  July  4,  2006.  He  is  an  electrical  engineer 
at  the  Naval  Undersea  Warfare  Center. 

Jeremiah  Johnson  won 

the  Charles  Russell  Bard 
Award  for  employee 
excellence  from  his 
employer,  C.  R.  Bard 
Inc.  He  is  a  project  engi- 
neer in  the  Electrophysi- 
ology  Division. 


Trans  form  at  io  n  s    \   Summer  2007     53 


Michael  Krager  became  engaged  to  Alyssa 
Chelotti  on  Feb.  22,  2007.  He  is  working  at 
Kidde-Fenwal  in  Ashland,  Mass.,  as  a 
mechanical  engineer. 

Kerri  (Dagesse)  Lemire  and  her  husband, 
Charles,  welcomed  their  First  child,  Charles 
(Charlie)  Romeo  Lemire  III,  on  Jan.  1 1, 
2006.  They  were  married  in  July  2002,  with 
Jason  Field,  Jason  Hemmer,  and  Jonathan 
Hone  '01  in  the  wedding  party.  Kerri, 
Chuck,  and  Charlie  reside  in  Waltham, 
Mass. 

Jared  Rhoads  celebrated  the  one-year 
anniversary  of  the  Lucidicus  Project,  a  non- 
profit effort  he  founded  to  help  medical 
students  understand  the  moral  and  economic 
case  for  capitalism  in  medicine.  He  also 
works  as  a  researcher  for  a  healthcare  con- 
sulting group  in  Boston  and  is  taking  phi- 
losophy courses  through  the  California- 
based  Ayn  Rand  Institute. 

David  Weatherwax  works  for  Voice  Signal 
Technologies.  He  married  Michele  Ingalls  in 
October  2005. 


2003 


Kerry  Lee 
Anderson 
and  Benjamin 
Kennedy  '00 

had  a  baby 
girl,  Marie 
Jane  Andken, 
on  Sept.  27, 
2006.  They 
live  in 
Newton,  Mass. 

Chantal  Bichet  and  Richard  Burdick  were 
married  in  a  private  ceremony  at  their  resi- 
dence in  Dedham,  Mass.,  on  Dec.  2,  2006. 
Chantal  is  a  quality  assurance  documenta- 
tion coordinator  at  AstraZeneca  in  West- 
borough,  Mass.,  and  can  be  reached  at 
chantal_and_rich@yahoo.com. 

Paul  Elliot  joined  the  New  York  office  of 
Schirmer  Engineering  as  an  associate  con- 
sultant. 

Andrea  Hubbard  is  pursing  a  DMV  degree 
at  Ross  University  School  of  Veterinary 
Medicine  in  St.  Kitts,  West  Indies. 

Jaclyn  Maiorano  (06 

MS  ECE)  joined  the  civil 
engineering  group  of 
Tighe  &  Bond  in  2003. 
She  recently  passed  her 
PE  exam. 


S4     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


David  Sama  married  Tiffany  Tata,  June  3. 

2006.  He  is  senior  account  manager  with 
Modcomp  in  Deerfield  Beach,  Fla. 

Jeff  Savard  is  pursuing  a  PhD  at  Carnegie 
Mellon  University.  His  June  2006  wedding 
to  Jennifer  Garbett  included  classmates 
Jeremy  Allen,  Colby  Hobart,  and  Craig 
Perkins  as  groomsmen. 

Christina  Watson  received  her  DVM 
degree  from  the  University  of  Illinois 
College  of  Veterinary  Medicine  in  May 

2007.  She  is  completing  an  internship  in 
equine  medicine  at  Blue  Ridge  Equine 
Clinic  in  Earlvsville,  Va. 


2004 


Tasha  Andrade  and  Josh  Clark  were  mar- 
ried on  Sept.  24,  2006,  with  Rebecca 
Hamel  serving  as  a  bridesmaid,  and  Jeff 
Simpson  as  a  groomsman.  Other  classmates 
in  attendance  included  Shaun  Armistead, 
Erica  Bartos,  Tom  Beigbeder,  Andrew 
Freeman,  JJ  Tranquilli, 
and  Kendra  Stafford. 
Josh  is  currently  working 
as  a  software  engineer  at 
Nuvosoft  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  Tasha  is  in  her 
third  year  of  law  school  at 
Roger  Williams 
University  in  Bristol,  RI. 
They  took  a  mini-honey- 
moon in  the  Berkshires  at 
Lenox,  Mass.,  and  will  be 
going  someplace  tropical 
over  the  summer,  after 
Tasha  takes  the  bar  exam. 

John  Baird  started  a 
unique  literacy  program 
at  the  New  Haven  Free 
Public  Library.  His  proj- 
ect, called  "Create  a 
Comic,"  involves  having 
elementary  school  chil- 
dren fill  in  blank  speech 
balloons  and  thought 
bubbles  on  comic-book 
templates.  He  developed 
the  approach  while  teaching  English  in 
Taiwan  with  Hess  Educational 
Organization.  The  program  has  received 
rave  reviews  and  has  been  publicized  in  the 
Yale  Daily  News,  the  New  Haven  Advocate, 
and  the  New  Haven  Register.  John  received 
his  MS  in  epidemiology  from  the  Yale 
School  of  Public  Health  in  May  2007. 

Erin  Bliven  is  an  epidemiologist  with  the 
Center  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention 
in  Atlanta.  She  works  with  the  Tuberculosis 


Clinical  Trials  Consortium  in  the  Clinical 
and  Health  Systems  Research  Branch  of  the 
Division  of  Tuberculosis  Elimination  within 
the  Center  for  HIV,  Viral  Hepatitis,  STD, 
and  Tuberculosis  Prevention. 

Pamela  Comey  is  an  associate  systems  engi- 
neer at  Textron  Systems  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 

Erin  Dupak  and  Tom  Daley  became 
engaged  in  May  2006.  Erin  received  a  mas- 
ter of  engineering  degree  in  bioengineering 
from  the  University  of  California,  San  Diego. 
She  works  for  DePuy  Spine,  a  Johnson  & 
Johnson  company.  Tom  is  president  and 
chief  technology  officer  of  Dynamic  Net- 
work Services  Inc.  They  live  in  Nashua,  N.H. 

Brian  Landry  married  Terese  Frazier  on 
Aug.  4,  2006.  Groomsmen  included  Sam 
Gharabally;  Justin  Braga  '05  was  best 
man.  Terese  is  a  graduate  of  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  at  Amherst  and  is  attend- 
ing Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine. 
Brian  is  currently  attending  Suffolk 
University  Law  School. 


Advancing  WPI 

Lisa  Maizite  formerly 
executive  director  of  major 
gifts,  has  been  promoted  to 
the  position  of  assistant  vice 
president  for  development. 
In  this  role,  Maizite  over- 
sees the  university's  major 
gift  and  annual  giving  staff. 

"I  am  honored  to  be  serving 

WPI     in    this    new    role," 

Maizite  says.   "I  look  forward  to  working  even  morj 

closely  with  the  university's  alumni  and  friends  to  hekj 

advance    the    important    work    of    this    remarkab 

institution." 

Maizite  arrived  at  WPI  in  1 996  as  director  of  the  Alunrv 
Fund.  Before  WPI,  she  spent  several  years  working 
development  at  Clark  University.  She  holds  a  bachelor 
degree  from  the  University  of  Vermont. 


Eric  Laurendeau  is  an  electrical  engineer  at 
BAE  Systems.  On  May  27,  2006,  he  mar- 
ried Carrie  Momenee.  They  live  in 
Merrimack,  N.H. 

Katherine  Martel  and  David  Mason  '06 

(MENGR)  were  married  July  1,  2006,  with 
Walker  League-Pike  and  Daniel  Thiffault 
'03  in  the  wedding  party.  Other  alumni  in 
attendance  were  Aaron  Meberg,  Winfield 
Peterson  '03,  Elias  Wilson  '05,  and  BE 
graduate  program  alumni  Anmol  Nagre  '05 
and  Shweta  Shanbhag  '06.  After  honey- 


mooning  in  Belize,  Katherine  and  David 
returned  to  their  new  home  in  Marlborough, 
Mass.,  where  they  now  reside  with  their  two 
Italian  Greyhounds,  Jackson  and  Mouse. 

Sara  Maska  and  Jeffrey  AJderson  '98  (see 
his  note  under  1998)  were  married  on  Aug. 
5,  2006.  They  honeymooned  in  the  Mayan 
Riviera  and  now  reside  in  their  new  home 
n  Brighton,  Mass.  Sara  recently  accepted  a 
josition  as  a  field  application  specialist  with 
'romega  Corp.,  where  she  will  support  aca- 
demic accounts  in  Massachusetts,  Maine, 
■view  Hampshire,  and  Vermont. 

essica  McAlear  began  PhD  studies  at  the 
jerman  Cancer  Research  Center 
Deutsches  Krebsforschungzentrum)  in 
4eidelberg,  Germany. 

kpril  Nunn  completed  her  graduate  degree 
I  the  University  of  Wisconsin  last  year  and 
iow  resides  in  Anchorage,  where  she  is  a 
icdical  physicist  for  the  Anchorage 
Ladiation  Center  at  the  Alaska  Regional 
lospital. 

Tieodoros  Toufas  is  working  on  a  PharmD 
cgree  at  Massachusetts  College  of  Pharmacy 
rid  Health  Sciences.  He  is  a  pharmacy 
item  at  Acton  (Mass.)  Pharmacy. 


1005 


aul  Emery  returned  to  Worcester  from 
ouses  Point,  N.Y.,  where  he  worked  for 
Zyeth  Pharmaceuticals.  He  is  now  a  foren- 
c  chemist  at  L'Mass  Medical  School  and 
working  on  his  masters  at  WPI. 

William  Herbert  works  for  Autodesk  Inc., 
Manchester,  N.H.,  providing  support  to 
id  users  and  resellers  for  AutoCAD. 

»sica  Reidel  was  accepted  into  the  gradu- 
e  studies  program  at  the  Catholic  University 

America  in  Washington,  D.C.  She  will 
:gin  part-time  studies  towards  her  master's 
,"gree  in  biomedical  engineering  at  the 
:hool  of  Engineering  in  the  fall  of  2007. 
urrently,  Jessica  works  as  a  patent  examin- 

for  the  United  States  Patent  and  Trade- 
ark  Office  in  Alexandria,  Va. 

seph  Reinsch  and  his  wife,  Amanda,  are 
»th  petty  officers  3rd  class,  stationed  at  the 
avy  Nuclear  Power  Training  Command  in 
aose  Creek,  S.C.  They  were  married  in 
ovember  2005  and  used  their  Christmas 
•liday  leave  to  hold  a  reception  at  Joe's 
rents'  home  in  Windsor,  Conn. 


Alumni  Association  Awards 

The  following  awards  were  presented  during  Reunion  Weekend,  June  7-10,  2007. 


Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 

for  Outstanding  Professional  Achievement 

Ernest  S.  Hayeck  '47,  Retired  Judge, 
Worcester  Central  District  Court 

William  W  Rawstron  '57,  Retired 
Vice  President,  Technology  Metso 
Automation  USA  Inc. 

Domenico  Grasso  '77,  Dean,  College 
of  Engineering,  University  of  Vermont 

Ichabod  Washburn  Young  Alumni  Award 
for  Professional  Achievement 

David  C  Cortese  '92,  Vice  President, 
Information  Technology,  Sony  Pictures 
Home  Entertainment 


John  Boynton  Young  Alumni  Award 
for  Service  to  WPI 

Jami  B.  Walsh  '97 

Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award 

for  Distinguished  Service  to  WPI 

Charles  E  H.  Crathern  '52 

George  H.  Long  Jr.  '57 

Michael  J.  Stephens  '57 

Curtis  R.  Carlson  '67 

Joseph  L.  Ferrantino  '67 

William  D.  Cunningham  '77 

William  R.  Grogan  Award 

for  Support  of  the  Mission  of  WPI 

David  Cyganski  '75 


2006 

Amanda  Otterman  is  serving  in  the  Peace 
Corps  as  a  mathematics  teacher  in  Vanuatu, 
in  the  South  Pacific. 

Christopher  Parker  is  pursuing  a  masters 
degree  in  biology  and  biotechnology  at  WPI. 
His  research  on  influenza  antigen  design  at 
UMass  Medical  School  was  published  in 
the  Journal  of  Virology. 

2007 

Michael  McManus  joined  the  Westfield, 
Mass.,  office  of  Tighe  &  Bond. 

Graduate  Management 
Program 

Mehdi  Sif  '98  ''MBA)  is  vice  president, 
marketing,  at  Zeugma  Systems  in  Palo  Alto, 
Calif. 


School  of  Industrial 
Management 

George  Walker  '58  wis  appointed  to  the 
special  task  force  for  the  revitalization  of  the 
Mississippi  Delta  by  Lt.  Gov.  Amos  Tuck. 

Peter  Leasca  '65  has 

M  ^k         been  active  in  honoring 

L  —  ».   I    veterans  of  World  War  II. 

He  is  campaigning  for  a 
memorial  statue  on  the 
A  ^.    '    Worcester  Common 

^k. H    behind  City  Hall. 

Interested  alumni  may  contact  him  at 
LSTWW2@aol.com  or  516  Grove  St., 
Worcester,  MA  01605. 

Harold  Johnson  '77  is  treasurer  of  The 
Parris  Island  Historical  &C  Museum  Society 
in  South  Carolina,  and  also  serves  as  a 
member  of  the  museum  staff. 

Harold  Long  '77  is  CTO  and  vice  presi- 
dent, engineering  and  portfolio  manage- 
ment, for  INS  in  Santa  Clara,  Calif.  He  was 
recently  appointed  as  the  INS  executive  del- 
egate to  the  Airports  Consultants  Council. 


Transformations    \    Summer  2007     55 


Planned  Giving  at  WPI      |      (888)  974-4438 


i, 


Your  Legacy  Is  Your  Life's  Work 


WPI  can  show  you  how  to  make  it  happen.  A  generous  50th 
reunion  gift  can  give  YOU  an  income  for  life— easily  accomplished 


If  you  are  interested  in  a  Charitable  Gift 
Annuity  that  pays  you  6.6%*  return  for 
the  rest  of  your  life,  just  call  Judi  Cantor 
toll  free  at  (888)  974-4438  or  e-mail 
Dlanned-aivina@wDi.edu. 


Based  on  1  person,  age  71 .  Charitable  Gift  Annuities 
pay  a  life-income  based  on  your  age;  many  plans  pay 
more  than  6.6%  and  some  pay  less.  You  earn  a  generous 
tax  deduction,  income  for  life,  and  you  support  WPI  with 
a  gift.  Ease  of  giving  is  our  service  to  you. 


ALDEN 

SOCIETY 


56     Transformations    \   Summer  2007 


Obituaries 


Obituaries 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  Russell  H.  Callahan  '17  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  in  1994.  He  was  predeceased  by  his 
wife,  Anna,  and  a  daughter.  He  retired  from 
Tenneco  (Tennessee  Gas  Transmission  Co.) 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Hamilton  W.  King  '26  in  1996.  He  lived 
in  Deerfield  Beach,  Fla.,  and  was  retired 
from  Consolidated  Edison  Co. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  Irving  H.  Campbell  '29  (Theta  Chi)  in 
1999.  He  was  retired  from  U.S.  Envelope 
Co.  He  and  his  wife,  Barbara,  had  two 
children. 

The  last  survivor  of  his  class,  Arthur  E. 
Gilbert  Jr.  '29,  of  Louisville,  Ky.,  died  July 
23,  2007.  Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Mary 
(Southwick),  he  leaves  three  children.  He 
attended  his  75th  Class  Reunion  in  2004 
with  his  son,  Richard  Gilbert  '54,  who  was 
celebrating  his  50th  Reunion.  The  retired 
vice  president  of  Cheatham  Electrical 
Switching,  Gilbert  contributed  to  the  tech- 
nology behind  vehicles  such  as  the  bumper 
cars  at  Coney  Island  and  cars  used  to  haul 
ore  from  coal  mines. 

Henry  F.  Friel  '31  (Phi  Kappa  Theta)  of 
York,  Pa.,  died  Aug.  6,  2006.  Predeceased 
by  his  wife,  Lucine  (Knox),  and  a  daughter, 
he  is  survived  by  four  children.  Friel  was 
retired  from  Wire  Mesh  Products  as  a  prod- 
uct engineer. 

Edgar  C.  Ansaldi  '32  of 

Manchester,  Conn.,  died 
Jan.  26,  2007.  He  was 
retired  from  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  as  chief 
of  experimental  test  labo- 
ratories. Predeceased  by 
his  wife,  Alice  (Aiken),  he  leaves  two  sons. 

C.  Milton  Ekberg  '32 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa), 
retired  president  of 
Abrasive  Tools  Inc.,  died 
July  24,  2005.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Dorothy,  of 
Cromwell,  Conn.,  and 
three  children.  He  was  the  brother  of  Allred 
C.  Ekberg  36,  who  also  survives  him. 


CV 


Antonio  P.  "Jock" 
Maggiacomo  '32  (Phi 
Kappa  Theta,  Skull)  of 
Cranston,  R.I.,  died  June 
24,  2006.  A  longtime  sci- 
ence teacher  and  athletic 
coach  in  the  Cranston 
high  schools,  he  was  designated  a  Sports 
Ambassador  by  President  Gerald  Ford.  He 
was  predeceased  by  his  wife,  Clara  (Carlotti) 
and  a  son.  Another  son  survives  him. 

Carroll  C.  Misener  '32 

of  Zephyrhills,  Fla.,  died 
May  24,  2006.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Eunice 
(Hixson),  four  children, 
and  two  stepchildren. 
Misener  was  predeceased 
by  his  first  wife,  Rita,  in  1977,  and  by  his 
second  wife,  Ruth,  in  1996.  He  was  retired 
from  the  U.S.  Naval  Ordnance  Laboratory, 
where  he  served  as  a  mechanical  engineer. 

Frank  L.  Eaton  Jr.  '33  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  Jonesboro,  Ga.,  died  March  24,  2006. 
He  earned  a  master's  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering  at  WPI  in  1934  and  retired 
from  Hamilton  Sunstrand  as  a  senior 
designer.  Survivors  include  his  wife,  Mary, 
and  four  children. 

Robert  E.  Ferguson  '33  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  died  Nov.  8,  2006,  leaving  his  wife, 
Eileen  (O'Brien),  and  eight  children.  He 
lived  in  Leicester,  Mass.,  for  many  years  and 
was  owner  and  operator  of  Automatic 
Dispensers  of  Worcester. 

Transformations  has 
learned  of  the  death  of 
Charles  S.  Dayton  '34 

in  2003.  A  retired  district 
sales  manager  for  General 
Electric  Co.  of  Phila- 
delphia, he  was  survived 
by  his  wife,  Mae  (Stillings),  his  son,  Douglas 
Dayton  '70,  and  three  other  children. 

Donald  C.  Vibber  '34,  a  longtime  resident 
of  Worcester  and  Southbridge,  Mass.,  died 
July  1 ,  2006.  He  was  the  founder  of 
Worcester  Automatic  Machine  Co.,  and 
later  served  as  chief  engineer  of  Hyde 
Manufacturing  Co.  He  is  survived  by  his 
former  wife,  Eloise  Vibber,  and  two  sons. 


Alumni  who  wish  to  make  contributions 
in  memory  of  classmates  and  friends  may 
contact  the  Office  of  Development  and 
Alumni  Relations  at  508-831-5660  or 
vlconti@wpi.edu. 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Robert  B.  Logan  '35  (Phi  Gamma  Delta) 
in  1994.  He  lived  in  Madison,  Fla.,  and 
worked  for  St.  Vincent  Hospital  and  The 
Wilcolator  Co. 

0   George  L.  Chase  '36 
(Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
Skull)  of  Newcastle, 
Maine,  died  Sept.  16, 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Joy  (Goddard),  and  two 
children.  Chase  worked 
for  Scovill  Manufacturing  Co.  for  30  years 
and  later  retired  from  Ball  &  Socket 
Manufacturing  Co.  as  vice  president. 

William  C.  Maine  '36 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Columbia,  Conn.,  died 
March  8,  2006.  Pre- 
deceased by  his  first  wife, 
Lucile  (Hanna),  and  his 
second  wife,  Evalyn 
(Standish),  he  leaves  two  children.  Maine 
was  a  plant  engineer  for  Westvaco,  Mohasco, 
and  The  Torrington  Company 

Corrections:  The  Winter  2005  issue 
of  Transformations  erroneously  reported  the 
death  of  Ralph  M.  Johnson  '57.  The  con- 
fusion arose  from  the  death  of  a  WPI  stu- 
dent's father  who  bore  the  same  name.  • 
The  death  of  H.  Roger  Erickson  '40  was 
mistakenly  reported  in  the  Fall  2006  issue. 
His  brother-in-law,  Harold  F.  Henrickson 
'36,  died  in  2005,  which  gave  rise  to  a  mis- 
communication  with  the  records  depart- 
ment. •  The  first  name  of  Robert  H.  York 
'62  was  incorrect  in  his  obituary  in  a  previ- 
ous issue.   •  Our  apologies  go  out  to  those 
involved  and  their  families. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Henry  Plimpton  Sr.  '36  (Theta  Chi)  in 
2002.  He  and  his  wife,  Grace,  had  two 
children.  He  worked  as  a  machine  shop 
foreman  for  Manlabs  Inc. 

Erving  Arundale  '37 

(Theta  Chi)  of  Wood- 
stock, Conn.,  died  Aug. 
12,  2006.  A  noted 
research  chemist,  he 
helped  develop  synthetic 
rubber  to  meet  wartime 
needs,  and  unleaded  gasoline  to  minimize 
pollution.  He  spent  his  career  with  Exxon 
Mobil  Corp.,  established  the  Exxon 
Chemical  Technology  Center  in  Brussels, 
and  retired  with  68  patents  in  his  name. 
Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Phoebe  (Allison), 
he  leaves  three  children. 


Trans  formations    \    Summer  2007     57 


'uiiuui  les 


Philip  G.  Atwood  '37 

(Alpha  Tau  Omega)  of 
Fort  Myers,  Fla.,  died 
Jan.  31,2006.  After  a 
35-year  career  with  New 
England  Telephone  (now 
Verizon),  he  retired  as  a 

staff  engineer.  His  wife,  Eleanor  (Clark), 

predeceased  him. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  John  E.  Poeton  '37  (Lambda  Chi  Alpha) 
in  2001.  He  lived  in  San  Diego.  His  wife, 
Genevieve,  died  in  2003. 

Allen  R.  Deschere  '38 

of  Baileys  Crossroads, 
Va.,  died  March  5,  2007. 
His  wife,  Jane,  died  in 
2000.  Four  children 
survive  them.  Deschere 
retired  from  Rohm  and 
Haas  as  assistant  director  of  research  and 
later  served  as  automated  systems  coordina- 
tor for  the  Library  of  Congress's  National 
Library  Service  for  the  Blind  and  Handi- 
capped. 

Professor  emeritus  Donald  W.  Howe  Jr.  '38 

('43  MSEE)  of  Westborough,  Mass.,  died 
Dec.  12,  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Margaret 
(Walker),  and  six  children.  Howe  taught  at 
WPI  for  50  years,  starting  in  the  physics 
department  and  then  joining  the  electrical 
engineering  department.  An  independent 
radio  consultant  and  ham  radio  operator, 
he  helped  found  public  radio  station  WICN 
in  Worcester. 

John  B.  "Jack"  Scalzi  '38  of  Easton,  Md., 
died  Dec.  20,  2006.  Predeceased  by  his 
wife,  Jennie  (Celozzi),  he  is  survived  by 
two  daughters  and  his  partner  of  14  years, 
Shirley  Beck.  An  authority  on  bridge  design, 
Scalzi  retired  from  the  National  Science 
Foundation  in  2005  as  program  director  for 
infrastructure  engineering,  where  he  provided 
international  leadership  on  earthquake  pro- 
tection. A  former  professor  at  Case  Western 
Reserve  and  Carnegie  Mellon  universities, 
he  was  the  author  of  several  textbooks  and 
numerous  papers. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  Robert  L.  Somerville  '38  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Brunswick,  Ga.,  in  2002.  A  con- 
sulting chemical  engineer  with  numerous 
patents  in  his  name,  he  specialized  in  the 
methodology  of  wet  process  phosphoric  acid 
production  and  filtration  technology.  His 
wife,  Elizabeth,  and  three  children  survive 
him. 


E.  Bruce  Crabtree  '39  of  San  Antonio, 
Texas,  died  Jan.  17,  2007.  He  leaves  his 
wife,  Anne,  and  three  children.  He  retired 
as  vice  president  of  sales  for  Byrant  Grinder 
Corp. 

John  F.  Peavey  '39  of  Hendersonville, 
N.C.,  died  Feb.  12,  2007.  He  was  retired 
from  the  John  H.  Breck  hair  care  company 
as  plant  engineer.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Anne,  and  four  children. 

Robert  F.  West  '39 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Cromwell,  Conn.,  died 
Oct.  21,2006.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Dorothy 
(Nourse),  and  two  chil- 
dren. As  director  of  new 
products  and  research  at  Stanley  Tools,  he 
developed  and  improved  many  hand  tools, 
including  the  PowerLock  tape  rule,  and  was 
named  in  more  than  40  patents. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  Carl  Carnicelli  '40  in  2002.  He  was  a 
self-employed  architect  and  engineer. 

John  A.  Leach  '40  of  Brooklyn,  Conn., 
died  Aug.  22,  2006,  leaving  his  wife, 
Priscilla  (Karle)  Reel,  three  children,  and 
two  stepchildren.  His  first  wife,  Alice,  died 
in  1987.  Leach  was  the  founder  of  Leach 
Instrument  Service. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death 
of  Frederick  B.  Miller  '40  (Alpha  Tau 
Omega)  in  2001.  The  former  president  of 
Echols  International  Travel  Training,  he 
leaves  his  wife,  Virginia,  and  three  children. 

James  I.  Thurston  '40  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  Nobleboro,  Maine,  died  Feb.  19,  2007. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Jean,  and  three  children. 
His  first  wife,  Evelyn  (Moore),  died  in 
1993.  Thurston  was  retired  from  Waite's 
Industrial  Hardware. 

Alexander  S.  Chodakowski  '41  died  Aug. 
1 1,  2006,  in  Venice,  Fla.  A  former  member 
of  the  U.S.  State  Department,  he  served 
as  an  instructor  and  consultant  to  the 
Interagency  Training  Center  in  Fort 
Washington.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Marian 
(Jenkins),  and  four  children. 

George  P.  Lentros  '41 

of  Ashland,  Mass.,  died 
May  9,  2006.  He  was  the 
founder  of  Lentros  Engi- 
neering, which  he  ran 
for  46  years.  His  wife, 
Angela  (Koutsotasios), 
predeceased  him.  A  son  survives  them. 


1C5~ 


Alvin  A.  Luce  '41  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Exeter,  N.H.,  died  Sept.  18,  2006.  Pre- 
deceased by  his  wife,  Ruth,  he  leaves  two 
children.  Luce  worked  for  The  Torrington 
Co.  for  37  years  and  retired  as  a  district 
sales  manager. 

George  C. 
Andreopoulos  '42 

(Sigma  Phi  Epsilon)  of 
Leawood,  Kans.,  died 
Sept.  26,  2006.  Pre- 
deceased by  his  wife, 
Mary  (Murray),  and  his 
brother,  Theodore  Andreopoulos  '38,  he  is 
survived  by  three  children.  Andreopoulos 
was  retired  from  United  Bakery  Equipment 
Co.  An  offensive  and  defensive  guard  on  the 
WPI  football  team,  he  was  the  first  player  to 
earn  letters  in  all  four  years. 

Edward  H.  Jacobs  '42  of  Bandon,  Ore., 
died  Dec.  26,  2006.  Survivors  include  his 
wife,  Judy,  his  former  wife,  Marge,  and  five 
children. 


~S*r 


_^ 


William  S.  Jackson  '42 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Anacortes,  Wash.,  died 
April  24,  2006.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Christine 
(McDonell),  and  three 
children.  Jackson  was 
retired  from  E.I.  DuPont  de  Nemours  as 
regional  manager  for  the  Southwest 
Division. 

Frederic  C.  Merriam  '42  of  Danvers, 
Mass.,  died  Nov.  11,  2006.  He  is  survived 
by  his  wife,  Ellen,  and  a  son.  Merriam 
worked  for  United  Shoe  Machinery  as  a 
senior  organic  chemistry  researcher.  He  also 
operated  Merriam  Energy  Systems. 

^H^ 1    Hyman  "Haim"  G. 

Nagirner  Weinstein  '42 

m^b  «•  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi)  of 

i    %.  Green  Oaks,  111.,  died 

^%J  Oct.  20,  2006.  A  bio- 

^^     A^^^        medical  scientist,  he 
^^fl    I  J    received  a  master's  degree 
from  the  University  of  Illinois  Urbana  and 
his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Chicago.  He 
was  a  professor  at  Chicago  Medical  School 
(now  Rosalind  Franklin  University  of 
Medicine  and  Science).  He  also  served  on 
the  faculty  of  the  North  Chicago  VA 
Medical  Center.  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Shirley,  and  a  daughter,  he  is  survived  by  a 
sister  and  his  longtime  friend  and  medical 
colleague,  Moira  Breen. 


5  8     Transformations    \    Summer  2007 


Obituaries 


Auto  Safety  Pioneer 

Carl  Clark  '45,  best  known  as  an  advocate  and  innovator  of  airbag 
restraint  systems  for  automobiles,  died  Aug.  24,  2006.  His  professional 
accomplishments  also  included  developing  a  novel  way  to  study  the 
workings  of  the  cell,  setting  the  optical  standard  for  "Coca  Cola  Green" 
(the  color  of  Coke  bottles),  and  pioneering  the  field  of  dynamic  flight 
simulation  to  train  X-15  pilots  and  Mercury  astronauts  for  their  missions. 
♦  Clark  developed  and  extensively  tested  the  Airstop  Restraint  System 
for  cars,  the  first  practical  automotive  airbag  safety  system.  His 
promotion  of  the  benefits  of  airbags  is  credited  with  helping  convince 
automakers  to  begin  seriously  investigating  the  practicality  of  adding 
airbag  systems  to  cars.  Later  in  life,  he  brought  the  same  passion  to  his  advocacy  for  the 
use  of  laminated  safety  glass  in  the  side  windows  of  cars.  He  also  developed  an  airbag 
bumper  system  that  could  protect  car  occupants  from  serious  injury  in  a  crash  into  a  wall 
at  up  to  50  miles  per  hour.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Elizabeth,  and  four  children.  He  was  a 
member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  and  Sigma  Xi. 


Albert  E.  Whiton  '42  of  Pittsfield,  Mass., 
died  Jan.  18,  200".  He  leaves  his  wife. 
Geraldine,  and  three  children.  He  was 
retired  from  GE  Naval  Ordnance  with 
41  years  of  service. 

Philip  C.  Wright  '42  of  Phoenix,  Ariz.. 
died  Aug.  5,  2005.  Predeceased  by  his  wife. 
Bernice,  he  leaves  five  children.  He  worked 
as  an  electronics  engineer  and  manager. 

George  N.  Drawbridge  '43  ot  \\  orcester 
died  March  6,  200".  He  was  a  longtime 
employee  of  Worcester  Pressed  Steel  and 
L.  S.  Starrett  Co.  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Emily  (Sjostrom),  he  leaves  two  children. 

Herbert  H.  "Hank"  Ferris  Jr.  '43  (Phi 
Gamma  Delta)  of  Alpine.  Calit..  died  Jan. 
9,  200".  He  leaves  his  wife.  Jane  (Fitzi. 
and  six  children.  Ferris  was  retired  from 
Prudential  Securities  as  an  investment  coun- 
selor. 

J.  Perry  Fraser  '43  ot  Gorham.  Maine,  died 
Dec.  12,  2006.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Elizabeth,  and  three  children.  He  worked 
for  General  Electric  for  almost  30  years  and 
later  worked  for  Mechanical  Technologies. 

Wilmot  J.  Keogh  '43  (Phi  Kappa  Theta)  of 
Norwalk,  Conn.,  died  Feb.  19,  200",  leav- 
ing his  wite,  Margaret  (McElroy).  and  five 
sons.  He  was  retired  from  ^  estinghouse 
International,  where  he  served  as  president 
ot  \\  estinghouse  South  America. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Edwin  H.  Matasik  '43  (Phi  Kappa 
Theta)  in  2004.  He  lived  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.,  and  worked  tor  Perkin  Elmer  Corp. 


Former  class  vice  presi- 
dent Behrends  "Pete" 
Messer  Jr.  '43    Phi 

Sigma  Kappa,  Skull)  of 
Princeton,  N.J..  died 
Aug.  28,  2006.  A  lieu- 
tenant colonel  in  the 
Army  Corps  ot  Engineers.  Messer  joined 
Mobil  Oil  in  1 948  and  retired  as  manager 
of  wholesale  plant  and  civil  engineering  for 
Mobil  Oil  Research  and  Development 
Corp.  His  contributions  to  standardization 
and  regulation  of  the  industry  earned  him 
a  certificate  of  appreciation  from  the 
American  Petroleum  Institute.  He  is  sur- 
vived by  his  wite.  Jeanne  (Buckhorn),  and 
four  children. 

John  P.  Newton  Jr.  '44  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Selkirk,  N.Y.,  died  April  6, 
2006.  His  wife.  Maradean, 
survives  him.  He  was  a  self- 


traveling  to  Italy  as  a  Fulbright  professor 
and  serving  on  the  California  State  Board  of 
Education.  In  1987  Carrabino  was  awarded 
an  honorary  doctor  of  science  degree  by 
WTI  for  his  research  on  effective  manage- 
ment and  engineering  practices  to  enhance 
productivity.  He  and  Marilyn  had  six  chil- 
dren, who  survive  him. 

Edward  J.  Dolan  '45  (Alpha  Tau  Orr... 
ofWauseon,  Ohio,  died  July  12,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Dorothy,  and  four  children. 
He  was  retired  from  General  Motors  Corp. 
Hyatt  Division  as  a  metallurgist. 

Alfred  E.  Green  '45 

(Phi  Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Shrewsbury.  Mass..  died 
May  29.  2006.  He  is  sur- 
vived by  his  wife,  Barbara 
(Janson),  and  a  daughter. 
A  1953  graduate  of  the 
School  of  Industrial  Engineering,  he  was 
president  and  founder  of  Process  Heating 
Corp.  For  his  service  to  his  class  and  to  the 
Alumni  Association,  he  received  the  Herbert 
F.  Taylor  Alumni  Award  for  Distinguished 
Senice  in  2000. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Paul  J.  Meleen  '45  (Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Englewood,  Fla.,  in  2004.  His  wife.  Edith, 
and  five  children  survive  him.  He  was  the 
owner  of  Meleen  Motors  Inc. 

Bertrand  C.  Mills  '45  (Phi  Gamma  Delta) 
ot  Yero  Beach.  Fla..  died  June  12.  2006. 
Mills  began  his  career  in  General  Electrics 
Management  Training  Program,  became 
president  of  Carlyle  Compressor  Co.,  and 


employed  engineering  consult- 
ant. 

Transformations  has  learned 
of  the  death  of  Earl  S. 
Carpenter  Jr.  '45  of  Salem. 
Mass..  in  2004.  The  retired 
owner  of  Johnson  Canvas 
Co.,  he  leaves  his  wite. 
Janice. 

Joseph  D.  Carrabino  '45 

(Theta  Kappa  Phi)  died  July 
1",  200".  in  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. He  held  an  MBA  from 
Northwestern  University  and 
a  PhD  in  engineering  from 
UCLA.  He  served  on  the 
faculty  and  administration  ot 
I  CLA  for  more  than  40  vears. 


Generous  Benefactor, 
Trustee,  Loyal  Friend 


John  C.  Metzger  Jr.  '46  of  Vero 
Beach,  Fla.,  died  Dec.  29,  2006.  A 
WPI  trustee  since  1981,  he  was 
elected  to  emeritus  status  in  1 989. 
Metzger  received  the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Alumni  Award  for 
Distinguished  Professional  Achieve- 
ment in  1981.  With  his  wife,  Jean, 
he  established  the  John  C.  Metzger 
Jr.  Professorship  in  Chemistry  in 
WPI's  Department  of  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry. 
•♦•  Metzger  spent  his  entire  career  with  DuPont  Co. 
and  retired  as  group  vice  president  for  the  Photosystems 
and  Electronic  Products  Division.  In  addition  to  his  wife, 
he  is  survived  by  three  daughters.  He  was  preceded  in 
death  by  his  first  wife,  Jane  Metzger.  He  belonged 
to  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  Skull. 


Transformations    \    Summ er  200        59 


Obituaries 


retired  from  Carrier  Corp.  as  vice  president 
of  manufacturing.  He  leaves  his  wife. 
Marjorie.  and  five  children. 

Lionel  H.  Seccombe  '45    >:gma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Canton.  Conn.,  died  Jan.  4. 
200".  Survivors  include  his  wife.  .-Mice 
"Jane."  and  two  sons.  He  was  predeceased 
bv  a  daughter.  Seccombe  was  a  design  engi- 
neer. His  employers  included  B.  A.  Ballou 
&  Co.  and  Aquidneck  Data  Co. 


i^wq 


Frank  J.  Stefanov  '45 

(Theta  Chii  of  Avon. 
Conn.,  died  Dec.  20. 
2006.  He  worked  for 
The  Torrington  Company 
as  a  mechanical  engineer 
for  38  years  and  reared 
in  1985.  He  was  the  husband  of  Man- 
Evelyn  (Guertini.  and  the  father  of 
Elizabeth  Stefanov  Johnson  89.  He  is  also 
survived  by  six  other  children. 

William  R.  Bingham  '46  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Lunenburg.  Mass..  died  Jan.  25.  200".  A 
self-employed  land  surveyor,  he  operated 
William  R.  Bingham  Associates  and  assisted 
the  local  historical  society  in  researching  old 
homes  and  roads.  Survivors  include  his  wife. 
Man-  (Bickford).  and  four  children. 

George  R  Brown  Jr.  '46  or  Versailles.  Ky.. 
died  Nov.  26.  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife. 
Nori  ind  four  children.  He  was  a 

director  of  Massachusetts  Mutual  Insurance 
Co.  for  more  than  24  years. 

Robert  F.  Budge  '46  (Alpha  Tau  Omega!  of 
Bristol,  Conn.,  died  Dec.  8,  2006.  He  was 
predeceased  by  his  wife.  Gloria  (Merr:. 
was  retired  from  Altair  Corp.  as  quality  con- 
trol manager. 

George  Button  '46  of  Vero  Beach.  Fla.. 
died  Sept.  14.  2006.  leaving  his  wife. 
Elizabeth  (Higgins).  and  four  children.  A 
real  estate  developer,  he  was  retired  from  the 
family  business.  Button  Associates  Inc. 

Robert  B.  Charlton  '46 

of  Prattville,  Ala.,  died 
July  13.  2006.  He  leaves 

:  Martha  (Chancey). 
and  two  children.  As  a 
self-employed  consulting 
civil  engineer,  Charlton 
designed  the  structure  of  many  buildings  in 
Alabama,  including  the  local  high  school. 

Daniel  J.  Goss  Jr.  '46  of  Louisville.  Ky.. 
died  Feb.  25,  2006.  His  wife,  Doris,  sur- 
vives him.  Goss  was  retired  from 
International  Han-ester  as  supenisor  of 
industrial  engineering. 


Howard  F.  McCormick  Jr.  '46  of  Windsor. 
Conn.,  died  Aug.  2-+.  2006.  Sun  ivors 
include  his  wife,  Judith,  and  six  children. 
McCormick  ran  the  H.  F.  McCormick 
Tobacco  Co.,  then  held  the  post  of  plant 
manager  at  Hi-G  Co..  and  most  recently 
worked  as  a  consultant  for  Philips 
Engineering. 

Donald  L.  Nichols  '46  of  Portsmouth, 
R.I..  died  May  26.  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife. 
Thalia  (Peterson),  and  seven  children. 
Nichols  retired  from  the  Navy  Undenvater 
Systems  Center  as  associate  technical  direc- 
tor and  later  sened  as  a  self-employed  con- 
sultant. 

Thomas  J.  Passanisi  '46  of  Lexington. 
Mass.,  died  Aug.  2~.  2006.  He  was  retired 
from  Raytheon  Co.  as  a  principal  engineer. 
Sunivors  include  his  wife,  Carmela  "Millie" 
(Tringali),  and  nvo  children. 

Robert  L.  Rocha  '46  of  Towaco.  N.J.,  died 
Sept.  4,  2006.  He  is  sunived  by  his  wife. 
Laura  (Hatfield),  and  four  chil- 
dren. A  Navy  veteran  of  World 
War  II  and  Korea,  he  was  the 
retired  chief  engineer  at 
Picatinny  Arsenal,  where  he 
also  managed  the  explosive 
ordinance  disposal  office. 

Nai-Chong  Chang  '47  of 
Santa  Fe.  N.M..  died  Nov.  28. 
2006.  He  worked  for  UNISYS 
Corp. 

Robert  H.  Adams  '48 

(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  of  Lake 

Forest,  111.,  died  Feb.  5.  200". 

He  leaves  his  wife,  Joan 

(Ireland).  He  began  his  career 

with  General  Electric  and  later  founded 

Adams  Industries,  manufacturer  of  electrical 

resistance  heating  elements,  which  he  sold 

to  a  British  firm  in  1994. 

David  L.  Anthony  '48 

i Sigma  Phi  Epsilon)  of 
Columbus,  Texas,  died 
^^B  March  5.  200".  He 

leaves  his  wife.  Betty,  and 
two  daughters.  Anthony. 
W. *"*        I    a  retired  electrical  engi- 
neer, received  a  second  bachelors  degree 
from  Northeastern  University  in  1953  and 
worked  for  Texas  Instruments. 

David  I.  Caplan  '48  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi.  Tau 
Beta  Pi)  of  Defray  Beach,  Fla.,  died  April 

_  06.  A  patent  attorney  for  Lucent 
Technologies,  he  received  a  doctorate  in 
physics  from  Purdue  University  and  a  law 


degree  from  NYU.  Caplan  was  a  longtime 
board  member  of  the  NR\  who  wrote  and 
spoke  on  widely  on  gun  ownership  issues. 
His  wire.  Sue  W  immershof-Caplan,  sun  ives 
him. 

Robert  E.  Eilertson  '48  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Cleanvater.  Fla..  died  May  3, 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wife.  Virginia,  and  six 
children.  He  earned  his  BS  from  Boston 
University  in  1995  and  was  retired  from 
Benefacts  Inc.  as  a  regional  marketing 
manager. 

Niel  I.  Fishman  '48  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi)  of 
Ormond  Beach.  Fla..  died  June  26.  2006. 
He  was  a  senior  sales  engineer  for  Philip  H. 
Werner  Inc.  and  co-owner  ot  Lindin 
Exhibits  Inc.  Two  sons  sunive  him. 

Robert  A.  Bareiss  '49  of  New  Port  Richey. 
Fla..  died  May  15.  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife. 
Doris,  and  two  children.  He  was  director  of 
process  control  at  Champion  International 
Paper  Co. 


Ritchie  Memorialized  in  Olin  Hall 


Sev  Ritchie,  who  passed  away 

in      2004,      is      still      fondly 

remembered  by  the  Department 

of    Physics    as    one    of    WPI's 

greatest  machinists.  A  member 

of    Skull,    Sev    dedicated    41 

years  to  WPI  and  touched  the 

lives  of  several  generations  of  students,  both  physics 

majors   and   others.    A   plaque   mounted   outside   the 

physics  machine  shop  was  unveiled  Sept.  1 ,  2006,  in 

commemoration  of  his  service. 


im 


Francis  J.  Bigda  '49 

I  Phi  Kappa  Theta)  of 
Hanvich.  Mass.,  died 
Dec.  9,  2006,  leaving  his 
wife,  Evelyn  (Stefanik), 
and  a  daughter.  He  was 
a  sales  engineer  and 
manufacturers  representative  for  the  semi- 
conductor industry. 

Thomas  R.  Carlin  '49  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Shrewsbury,  Mass.,  died  Jan.  14,  200". 
He  earned  an  MBA  at  Boston  University  in 
1958  and  worked  for  Wyman-Gordon  Co. 
for  39  years,  retiring  as  manager  of  general 
purchases  and  project  engineering.  Sunivors 
include  his  wife,  Christine  (Gasek),  and 
four  children. 

Edward  H.  Dion  '49  (Theta  Chi,  Skull)  of 
Mount  Holly.  N.J.,  died  April  11,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Man,  and  a  daughter.  He 


6  O     Tra  n  sft 


ormations 


I  s 


ummer 


200 


Obituaries 


was  predeceased  by  a  son.  Dion  retired  from 
Wagner  Hohns  Ingles  as  a  project  manager 
and  continued  as  an  engineering  consultant. 

Orlando  W.  "Bud"  Foss  Jr.  '49  of 

Waycross.  Ga..  died  Sept.  23.  2006. 
Survivors  include  his  wife.  Colleen,  two 
children  and  a  stepson.  Foss  was  the  retired 
president  of  General  Box  Co.  .After  retire- 
ment he  served  as  an  industrial  training 
consultant  for  Okefenokee  Technical 
College. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
William  C.  Marcoux  '49  in  2003.  A  resi- 
dent of  Nashua.  N.H..  he  taught  high 
school  mathematics  and  wood  shop  at 
Newmarket  High  School. 

Donald  J.  Baer  '50  of 

Old  Wethersfield,  Conn., 
died  Oct.  10.  2006.  A 
longtime  systems  safety- 
engineer,  he  was  retired 
from  GTE.  His  wife. 
Virginia,  (Willard), 
survives  him. 

Paul  J.  Brown '50  (Phi 

Kappa  Theta,  Skull)  of 
West  Springfield.  Mass., 
died  May  5.  2006. 
Survivors  include  his 
wire.  Marie  (Sullivan), 
and  four  children.  He 

was  predeceased  by  a  son.  Brown  was  retired 

from  R.  E.  Phelon  Co. 

George  W.  McAllan  '50   Sigma  Phi 
Fpsilon)  of  Waynesboro,  Va..  died  May  3, 
2006.  He  leaves  his  wife.  Viola,  and  three 
children.  He  was  retired  from  New  York 
Telephone  Co. 

Joseph  R.  Toegemann  '50  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Cranston.  R.I.,  and  Bradenton, 
Fla..  died  Jan.  1.  200".  A  chemical  engineer, 
he  worked  in  research  and  development  for 
Uniroyal  and  Goodyear,  retiring  in  1990. 
Survivors  include  his  wire.  Lois  (Schal Ic 
and  three  children. 

Leo  J.  Verrelli  '50  (Phi  Kappa  Theta)  died 
March  6,  200".  at  his  Milford.  Mass., 
home.  His  wire.  Man.-  (Compagnone).  died 
in  2004.  Two  children  survive  him.  An  elec- 
trical power  engineer,  Verrelli  was  involved 
in  the  design  of  numerous  power  plants 
throughout  the  country  before  his  retire- 
ment from  Stone  cv  Webster  Engineering 
Co.  in  1984. 

Norris  H.  Corey  '51  of  Sutton.  Mass..  died 
Oct.  7,  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Nancy 
(Carlson),  and  rour  children.  He  retired 


from  New  England  Power  Co.  as  chief  sys- 
tem dispatcher  with  40  years  of  service. 

Class  President  Richard  E.  Ferrari  '51  'Phi 
Kappa  Theta,  Skull)  of  Wilmington.  Del- 
died  Jan.  6,  200-.  He  is  survived  by  his 
wife,  Faye.  and  six  children.  A  son  prede- 
ceased him. 

Melvin  D.  Savage  '51  of  Lexington.  Mass., 
died  Aug.  22.  2005.  He  received  his  dental 
degree  from  Tufts  University  and  operated 
his  own  practice.  Survivors  include  his  wife. 
Arlene  (Marlini.  and  two  children. 

Frank  L.  Briggs  '52   .Alpha  Tau  Omega)  of 
Wilton.  Maine,  died  Feb.  19,  200".  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Martha  (Woods),  and  three 
children.  He  was  employed  as  a  sales  engi- 
neer by  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  for 

_ars. 
Allan  R.  Thayer  '52  of  Framingham.  Mass.. 
died  Sept.  1 3.  2006.  Predeceased  by  his 
wife.  Man-  (Tagliaferril.  in  1995.  he  leaves 
three  children.  Thayer  was  retired  from 
Ravtheon  Co..  where  he  held  the  post  of 
principal  engineer. 

Michael  J.  Cariglia  '53  of  North  Chelms- 
ford. Mass..  died  Oct.  1.  2006.  He  leaves 
his  wife.  Barbara  (Bonoveto),  and  five  chil- 
dren. A  longtime  electrical  engineer,  he  was 
retired  from  New  England  Power  Co. 

Vincent  J.  Boliver  '54 

(Phi  Kappa  Theta)  died 
Oct.  21.  2006.  at  his 
home  in  Brooklyn. 
Conn.  He  worked  as  a 
product  manager  for 
G&W  Electric  Co.  His 

wife,  Dolores  (Lord),  survives  him.  along 

with  four  children. 

Robert  A.  Luoma  '54  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Charleston.  S.C..  died  Nov.  23.  2006.  A 
retired  electrical  engineer,  he  worked  for 
General  Electric.  He  was  the  widower  of 
.Alice  (Holl). 

Ralph  K.  Mongeon  '55   Alpha  Tau 
Omega)  of  Shrewsbury.  Mass..  died  Aug. 
19.  2006.  He  was  retired  from  a  45-year 
career  with  Rilev  Stoker  Co.  He  leaves  his 
son.  Kenneth  S.  Mongeon  95.  his  wife. 
Dorothy,  and  a  daughter. 

George  W.  Gilbert  '56  of  Warren.  N.J.. 
died  Jan.  12.  200".  He  leaves  his  wife.  June 
(Langevin).  and  four  children.  .An  electrical 
engineer,  he  worked  tor  the  former  Bell 
Labs  and  North  Carolina  Labs. 


John  W.  Braley  Jr.  '57 
(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  died 
June  30,  2006.  at  his 
home  in  Fairview,  Texas. 
He  was  the  retired  presi- 
dent and  CEO  of 
Infotechnics  Inc. 

Survivors  include  his  longtime  companion. 

Carla  Cerkleski;  his  four  children;  and  their 

loving  mother.  Mary-  Braley. 

Alan  J.  Carlan  "5"    MS)  of  Rancho  Palos 
Verdes.  Calif,  died  Jan.  29.  200".  He  was  a 
self-employed  aerospace  consultant  and  the 
owner  of  Carlan  .Associates.  In  the  late 
1950s,  Carlan  enrolled  in  graduate  courses 
in  physics  along  with  his  wife.  Audrey  57 

who  in  195-  became  the  first  woman 
to  earn  a  degree  from  WPI.  In  addition  to 
his  wife,  he  is  survived  by  three  children. 
^^m^^^m    William  F  LaPointe 
^^^^^W  I    (Theta  Chi i  died  June 
W,  ^    -nfl   I  2006.  at  his  home  in 

l     ^    jM  I    Kennebunk.  Maine.  He 

~^^M  I    leaves  his  wife.  Florine 
^PF       J    (Collaro),  and  two  sons. 

Hr? -    M    A  graduate  of  Indiana 

Polytechnic  Institute,  he  worked  for  Vishay 
Sprague  for  38  years  and  spent  many  years 
in  the  Middle  East.  He  retired  as  interna- 
tional liaison  and  engineering  manager  for 
the  Tantalum  Division. 

Transformations  recendy  learned  of  the  death 
of  Kenneth  D.  Chickering  '59  in  I 
He  earned  a  masters  degree  in  physics  at 
WTI  in  1961  and  worked  for  the  University 
of  Connecticut  in  Storrs. 

Robert  W.  Hoag  '59 

of  Atdeboro.  Mass..  died 
May  31.  2006.  He  was 
president  ot  Walton  &: 
Lonsbury.  Survivors 
include  his  wife.  Mary 
OTCeefe  .  and  two 
children. 

Wilford  A.  Sutthill  Jr. 
'59  of  Seal  Rock.  Ore- 
died  June  25.  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife.  Sarah 
(Chandler),  and  three 
children.  He  earned  a 
masters  degree  in  civil 
engineering  at  Drexel  Institute  or 
Technology  and  worked  as  plant  engineer- 
ins  manager  for  Dakota  Gasification  Co. 

John  T.  Manchester  '60    Phi  Sigma  K 
of  East  Bridgewater.  Mass..  died  Nov.  11. 
2006.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife.  Lorena 
(Douglas),  and  three  children.  Manchester 


Transformations    \    Summer  200        61 


Jbifuanes 


received  an  MBA  from  Northeastern 
University  in  1968.  He  retired  from  Exergy 
Corp.  as  vice  president  in  2004. 

Franklin  I.  Siegel  '60  of  Chelmsford, 
Mass.,  died  March  7,  2007.  A  pioneer  in 
the  field  of  hybrid  microelectronics,  he 
worked  for  Teledyne  and  Raytheon,  where 
he  made  notable  contributions  to  the 
Apollo  space  program  and  numerous 
missile  systems.  He  was  the  father  of 
Andrew  Siegel  89;  he  also  leaves  a 
daughter. 

Bradford  S. 
Cushing  '61  (Phi 
Sigma  Kappa)  of 
Exton,  Pa.,  died 
Oct.  24,  2006. 
He  leaves  his  wife, 
Mary,  and  two  sons. 
A  specialist  in  the  field  of  hazardous  waste 
management,  he  was  vice  president  and 
principal  of  Applied  Environmental 
Management  Inc. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Robert  G.  McDonald  '62  (Tau  Kappa 
Epsilon)  in  2000.  He  lived  in  Porterville, 
Calif. 

William  H.  Reinert  '62  (Tau  Kappa 
Epsilon)  of  Ore  City,  Texas,  died  Feb.  16, 
2007.  He  was  the  owner  of  Advertising 
Concepts,  along  with  his  wife,  Diane,  who 
survives  him.  He  was  active  on  the  Ore  City 
Fire  Department  and  was  named  Volunteer 
of  the  Year  in  1980. 

Marcel  H.  Clavien  '63  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
died  Nov.  20,  2006,  at  his  home  in  Sutton, 
Mass.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Mireille  (Bruneteau), 
and  two  children.  After  receiving  an  MBA 
from  Stanford  University  he  pursued  a 
career  in  the  cable  and  wire  industry,  most 
recently  serving  as  vice  president  of  corpo- 
rate purchasing  for  Cable  Design  Technol- 
ogy of  Worcester.  An  active  member  of  his 
Class  Board  of  Directors,  he  was  instrumen- 
tal in  organizing  the  40th  Reunion  and  gift 
campaign. 

Arthur  F.  Darley  '63  (Tau  Kappa  Epsilon) 
of  Southbridge,  Mass.,  died  Sept.  15,  2006. 
He  spent  his  career  in  civil  service  and  was 
most  recently  a  district  project  engineer  for 
the  Massachusetts  Highway  Department. 

Donald  G.  Gregoire  '65  of  Merritt  Island, 
Fla.,  died  May  8,  2006.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Claire,  and  four  children.  He  was  a  retired 
systems  engineer  for  Lockheed  Martin. 

Roger  J.  Armata  '66  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Torrington,  Conn.,  died  Oct.  12,  2006. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Sally  (Lagowski), 


and  two  children.  A  manufacturing  engi- 
neer, Armata  worked  for  The  Torrington 
Company  for  28  years  and  retired  from 
ACME  Packing  Corp.  as  manufacturing 


services  manager. 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Donald  R.  Shurtleff'68  in  2004.  A  profes- 
sor emeritus  of  computer  science  at  the 
University  of  Missouri-Columbia,  he  was 
the  husband  of  Loramel  (Wagner)  and  had 
three  children  and  four  stepchildren. 


Ryan  Jones  '06/  Victim  of  Roadside  Bomb  in  Iraq 

First  Lf.  Ryan  Patrick  Jones  '05  died  May  2,  2007,  in  Baghdad,  of 
wounds  he  suffered  when  his  vehicle  struck  a  roadside  bomb.  He  was 
assigned  to  the  4th  Brigade  Special  Troops  Battalion,  4th  Brigade 
Combat  Team,  1st  Infantry  Division,  from  Fort  Riley,  Kansas.  As  a 
freshman  at  WPI,  Jones  joined  the  Army  ROTC  program  on  an  Army 
Scholarship  and  began  his  service  with  the  1st  Infantry  in  December 
2005.  He  went  to  Iraq  in  February  2007.  He  was  the  only  child  of 
Kevin  and  Elaine  Jones  of  Westminster,  Mass. 

"It  is  a  terrible  loss  of  human  life,  youth,  energy,  and  education,"  said 
Rajib  Mallick,  associate  professor  of  civil  and  environmental  engineer- 
ing and  advisor  of  Jones's  MQP.  "Ryan  is  a  student  I  will  remember  forever.  I  will 
remember  him  for  his  kind  and  gentle  nature  and  his  ever  willingness  to  help  others." 


Howard  J.  Braley  '66  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Placerville,  Calif.,  died  Sept.  30,  2006.  He 
earned  an  MBA  at  Boston  College  and 
served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  for  20  years, 
retiring  as  a  lieutenant  colonel.  He  then 
joined  Aerojet,  where  he  worked  as  a  test 
manager  for  rocket  engines  until  his  death. 
He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Cynthia  (Adams), 
and  two  children. 

Dennis  D.  Murphy  '66  of  Houston  died 
May  15,  2006.  He  was  a  lecturer  in  com- 
puter science  and  artificial  intelligence  at 
the  University  of  Houston-Clear  Lake.  He 
previously  taught  at  NOVA  University  in 
Florida.  Survivors  include  a  son-in-law, 
nieces,  and  nephews. 

Marshall  A.  Kaplan  '67  (Alpha  Epsilon 
Pi)  died  July  27,  2006,  at  his  home  in 
Worcester.  A  research  chemical  engineer, 
he  worked  for  the  U.S.  Navy  Dept.  and 
later  for  Lincoln  Laboratories.  He  is  sur- 
vived by  two  sons. 

Burton  F.  O'Rourke  '67  of  Key  Largo, 
Fla.,  died  Aug.  16,  2006.  He  leaves  his  wile. 
Audrey  (Davis),  and  two  children.  He  was 
a  chief  engineer  for  Norton  Co. 

Richard  E.  Broggi  '68  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  St.  Simons  Island,  Ga.,  died  June  21, 
2006.  A  longtime  construction  supervisor 
of  marine  projects,  he  helped  build  many 
major  U.S.  highway  interchanges,  as  well  as 
roads  in  Puerto  Rico  and  the  Bahamas. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Ami  (Rigdon),  a 
son,  and  two  stepchildren. 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Rashmikant  C.  Shelat  '69  of  Oradell,  N.J., 
in  2003.  He  was  a  senior  field  engineer  for 
the  New  York  City  Dept.  of  Design  and 
Construction. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
John  Manzo  '73  (MSCS)  in  2004.  He  was 
vice  president,  R&D,  for  U.S.  Robotics  in 
Skokie  111.  He  and  his  wife,  Patricia,  had 
one  child. 


Linda  M.  Pusateri  74  (MNS)  61,  of 
Spencer,  Mass.,  died  Oct.  1 1,  2006.  She 
leaves  two  sisters.  A  graduate  of  Worcester 
State  College,  she  taught  mathematics  and 
science  at  North  Brookfield  High  School 
and  later  worked  for  Riley  Stoker  Corp. 

Paul  M.  Houlihan  Sr.  '75  (Phi  Sigma 
Kappa)  of  Scottsdale,  Ariz.,  died  unexpect- 
edly on  Feb.  1 6,  2006.  He  was  regional 
sales  manager  of  the  western  division  of 
Nallatech.  Survivors  include  his  two  sons. 

Richard  C.  Dudley  76  (SIM)  of  East 
Brookfield,  Mass.,  died  Feb.  8,  2007,  leav- 
ing his  wife  of  42  years,  Gloria  (Conway). 
He  was  a  22-year  Navy  veteran  and  instruc- 
tor, who  retired  in  1965  as  master  chief 
machinist  mate.  He  then  served  as  assembly 
superintendent  for  Morgan  Construction 
Co.  for  25  years. 

Paul  J.  Duquette  76  of  Dudley,  Mass., 
died  Feb.  1 ,  2007.  He  worked  at  Mantrose- 
Haeuser  Co.  Inc.  He  was  the  husband  of 
Paula  (Kaczynski)  and  the  father  of  Jeffrey 
Duquette  '91  and  Jaime  Duquette  '94,  who 
survive  him. 


62     Trans  for  m  at  io  ns    \    Summer  2007 


Obituaries 


James  F.  Falcone  '76  (MSM)  of  Holliston, 
Mass.,  died  Dec.  2,  2005,  at  age  79.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Gloria  (Cerveny),  and  two 
daughters.  He  was  retired  from  Natick  Labs. 

Robert  R.  Jussaume  '76  (SIM)  of  Dudley, 
Mass.,  died  Oct.  15,  2006.  He  was  74.  He 
is  survived  by  his  wife,  Eileen  (Gardiner), 
and  three  children.  Jussaume  was  retired 
from  Hyde  Tool  Co.  as  personnel  director. 

Gregory  A.  Scott  '77  of  Shrewsbury,  Mass., 
died  Sept.  3,  2006.  He  worked  for  Update 
Logic  and  had  published  several  technical 
articles.  He  is  survived  by  two  children;  his 
companion,  Elaine  Moreland;  and  his  for- 
mer wife,  Sandra  (Clemens). 

Willie  Lee  Hoover  '79  (MSM)  of  Terry, 
Miss.,  died  Jan.  4,  2005,  at  age  79.  He  was 
retired  from  Raytheon  Co. 

David  L.  Arnold  '80  (MSM)  of  Norton, 
Mass.,  died  Jan.  26,  2006.  He  was  60.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Lynn  (Durette),  and  four 
children.  Arnold  taught  mathematics  at 
North  Attleboro  High  School  for  34  years 
and  later  worked  for  J.  E.  Case  Co.  and 
Clinical  Science  Lab. 

Steven  J.  Kahn  '80  or  Sewickley,  Pa.,  died 
June  1 5,  2006,  while  vacationing  with  his 
family  in  Tuscany,  Italy.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Mary  Frances,  and  two  daughters.  Kahn  was 


a  systems  analyst  with  TeleCove.  The  Steven 
J.  Kahn  Award  is  presented  annually  to  out- 
standing senior  members  of  the  WTI  Glee 
Club  to  honor  contributions,  commitment, 
and  unwavering  loyalty  to  the  organization. 

Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Xiaojun  Zhang  '87  (MSBB)  in  2003,  at 
age  43.  She  was  a  microbiology  professor  at 
Lakeland  Community  College.  She  and  her 
husband,  Weijun  Ling,  had  one  daughter. 

Robert  A.  Cupolo  '88  of  Bristol,  R.I.,  died 
Jan.  5i  2007.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Jennifer 
(Morrison),  and  two  children.  Cupolo 
received  a  master's  degree  from  Boston 
University  and  worked  for  Raytheon  Corp. 
for  20  years. 

Ronald  "Kirk"  Hayden  '89  (Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Hingham,  Mass.,  died  Sept.  7, 
2006.  He  is  survived  by  his  parents,  two 
brothers,  and  a  sister.  He  worked  as  a  sales 
manager  for  New  England  Controls  and 
Jack  Conway  Family  Group. 

Lawrence  W.  Harvie  Jr.  '93  (MSCS)  of 
Lewiston,  Maine,  died  May  13,  2006.  He 
was  41.  He  worked  as  computer  analyst 
and  programmer  for  Per-Se  Technologies. 
Survivors  include  his  father,  a  sister,  and  a 
brother. 


Rudy  B. 
Soriano  '96 

(Tau  Kappa 
Epsilon)  died 
Jan.  2,  2005, 
after  a  recur- 
rence of  cancer. 
He  leaves  his 
wife.  Gina 
Pulido-Soriano, 
his  parents,  his 
brother,  Carlo  Soriano  '97,  and  a  sister.  He 
worked  for  the  J.  D.  Edwards  consulting 
firm  and  lived  in  New  York  City. 

Kenton  D.  Boltz  '00  (MBA)  of  Sturbridge, 
Mass..  died  Nov.  21,  2006.  He  was  45.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Brenda  (Redman),  and  three 
children.  He  was  head  of  the  Sturbridge 
office  of  Edwin  Jones  Investments. 

Brandon  M.  Kilgore  '06  or  Sacramento, 
Calif,  died  Jan.  9,  2007.  He  was  the  hus- 
band of  Kimberly  (Ware)  Kilgore  06  and 
the  brother  of  Ryan  Kilgore  01.  He  is  also 
survived  by  his  parents  and  grandparents. 
He  was  a  test  engineer  for  3com. 


Letters 


Notes  On  a  View  (continued  from  page  3) 
as  circa  1933.  It  must  have  been  taken  after  1935.  It  shows 
a  soccer  goal  in  what  is  now  the  Quadrangle.  In  the  fall  of 
1935,  I  played  my  last  soccer  game.  The  field  then  was  end- 
to-end  with  the  football  field  along  Park  Avenue.  I  think  it 
was  moved  up  the  hill  the  next  year. 

You  correctly  identify  Stratton  Hall  and  the  Atwater 
Kent  Labs,  but  at  the  time  of  the  photo  they  were  designated, 
respectively,  as  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Building  and  the 
Electrical  Engineering  Building.  It  was  some  time  later  that 
they  acquired  their  current  names. 

It  is,  I  am  sure,  the  oldest  aerial  photograph  of  the  campus, 
but  not  the  oldest  aerial  picture.  About  1910,  Richard  Rummell, 
a  well-known  artist,  created  a  hand-engraved  copperplate  (at 
right)  depicting  the  then  WPI  campus.  He  viewed  the  campus 
from  a  tethered  balloon  about  300  feet  above  ground.  In  1987 
I  purchased  one  of  a  limited  edition  of  hand-pulled  prints 
from  the  Rummell  etching,  which  now  han»s  in  our  den. 


_J 

(>  -<**;■&'"                     .^, 

*"* 

rp^^^i  >pr  ~ 

John  R.  Brand   36 

Hockessin,  Del. 


Trans  fo  rmat  io  ns    [Summer  200        63 


Time  Capsule 


Gordon  Library  Turns  40 


Prior  to  1967,  when  the  George  C.  Gordon  Library  opened  its  doors,  WPI  maintained  branch  libraries  for  each 
academic  department  and  a  general  reference  library,  housed  first  in  Boynton  Hall,  above  (circa  1920),  and  later  in 
Alden  Memorial.  But  in  1964,  WPI  received  a  $5  million  bequest  from  Ohio  businessman  and  distinguished  alumnus 
George  Crompton  Gordon  (class  of  1895).  Today,  the  library  boasts  holdings  of  over  270,000  volumes  of  books  and 
periodicals,  access  to  over  70,000  electronic  journals,  books,  and  databases,  and  special  collections  of  more  than 
2,000  linear  feet  and  4,000  volumes  of  archival  materials  and  rare  books.  Since  opening  40  years  ago,  new  study 
and  instructional  facilities— including  the  multimedia  Tech  Suites,  Movie  Lab,  and  Anderson  Instruction  Labs— have  been 
added.  The  library  also  hosts  eight  art  and  history  exhibits  a  year  in  its  two  display  areas,  the  Class  of  1941  Gallery 
and  the  George  Gladwin  Art  Gallery. 

See  more  photos  and  read  about  upcoming  anniversary  events  at  wpi.edu/+library/40. 


64     Transformations    \   Summer  2  007 


Graduate  Studies 

in  Science  §£ 

Engineering 


Discover.  Innovate.  Advance. 


Full-time,  part-time,  or  just  one  course  - 

it's  your  choice. 


»  ii4 


WPIs  Science  and  Engineering  Graduate  Programs  feature  world-class  faculty  and  facilities. 
WPI's  graduate  students  and  faculty  work  closely  together  in  a  number  of  cutting-edge 
research  areas,  leading  to  breakthroughs  and  innovations  in  such  fields  as  biotechnology,  fuel 
cells,  nanotechnology,  and  information  security.  Opportunities  for  fellowships,  teaching,  and 
research  assistantships  for  full-time  students  are  available. 

Graduate  Programs  at  WPI: 


•  Biology  &  Biotechnology 

•  Biomedical  Engineering 

•  Chemical  Engineering 

•  Chemistry  &  Biochemistry 

•  Civil  &  Environmental  Engineering 

•  Computer  Science 

•  Electrical  &  Computer  Engineering 

•  Fire  Protection  Engineering 


Management 

Manufacturing  Engineering 
Materials  Process  Engineering 
Materials  Science  &  Engineering 
Mathematical  Sciences 
Mechanical  Engineering 
Physics 
Social  Science  &  Policy  Studies 


The  following  programs  are  available  online: 

Environmental  Engineering,  Fire  Protection  Engineering,  Management,  and  System  Dynamics. 

Information  Sessions 

Thursday,  August  23,  6  p.m.  •  WPI  Campus  Center 
Thursday,  September  27,  6  p.m.  •  WPI  Campus  Center 
Register  to  attend  at  www.grad.wpi.edu  or  call  508-831-5301 


«;hq  Q2i   <;2m 


Opportunity  A 


"I  am  so  grateful  for  all  that  I  have  been 
able  to  absorb  at  WPI,  in  both  academics 
and  in  my  social  life.  WPI  gives  you  so 
many  opportunities  you  won't  find  at  other 
schools.  In  much  the  same  way,  financial 
aid  has  given  me  the  opportunity  to  be 
part  of  something  as  incredible  as  WPI." 

— Krystal  Parker  '08,  aerospace  engineering  major 


During  the  2006-07  academic  year,  67  percent  of  full-time 
undergraduate  students  received  some  form  of  need-based 
scholarship  or  grant.  By  making  a  contribution  to  the  WPI 
Annual  Fund,  you  are  opening  the  door  to  opportunity 
for  talented  and  deserving  students,  like  Krystal  Parker. 

Thank  you  for  your  gift — 
your  gift  of  opportunity. 


To  make  your  gift  today  visit 


www.wpi.edu/Admin/Giving/ 


Departments 


2 

Starting  Point 

3 

Letters 

4 

Expanding  the 

WPI  Portrait 

A  message  from  President  Berkey 

5 

Campus  Buzz 

A  Commencement  speaker  is  announced; 
Curt  Schilling  and  Hillary  Clinton  make 
appearances  on  campus;  WPI  receives 
$6  million  from  Alden  Trust;  and  more. 

1 0       Investigations 

Wenjing  Lou  wins  a  CAREER  award, 
a  prestigious  honor  for  young  faculty 
members. 

1  1       The  Big  Picture 

Kasia  Koscielska  '08  has  big  dreams. 

1 2       Explorations 

Students  create  an  eco-laundry 
in  a  Cape  Town  village. 

1 4       Inside  WPI 

Professor  Susan  Vick's  starring  role. 

34      Alumni  Connections 

A  Q  and  A  with  Bill  Krein  '62,  Alumni 
Association  President;  Looking  toward 
Reunion  2008;  Connie's  Corner,  a  message 
from  WPI's  Career  Development  Center. 

38       Class  Notes 
44      Obituaries 
48      Time  Capsule 

Alumni  Field,  then  and  now. 


About  the  cover 

Shruti  Pai  '04  works  in  a  biomechanics  lab  at  the 
University  of  Washington.  Photo  by  Mel  Curtis. 
Archival  images  courtesy  of  WPI  Library  Archives. 
Cover  concept  by  Pamela  Mecca. 

This  page:  Lesley  (Small)  Zorabedian  and  Jayne  Rosetti 
were  the  first  female  undergraduates  to  enroll  at  WPI 
in  1968  when  the  Institute  became  coeducational. 


*4 


i 


% 


~% 


> 


1 6      The  40th  Anniversary  of  Women  at  WPI 

WPI  opened  its  doors  to  women  in  1968.  And  the  rest  is  history. 

21       Paving  the  Way 

Judy  Nitsch  '75,  Anni  Autio  '82,  and  Terese  Kwiatkowski  '83  are 
civil  engineering  leaders. 


;ti 


32 


.  :    : " 


fo*  a 

Future 


Ike  face  of  E»gj 


nil 


'Life  is  not  easy  for  any  of  us.  But  what  of  that?  We  must  have 
perseverance  and  above  all  confidence  in  ourselves." 


— Marie  Curie 


Thirty  years  before  WPI  went  coed,  a  young  woman  in  New  York  City 
aspired  to  be  a  doctor.  She  was  interested  in  helping  others,  and,  more  impor- 
tant, she  excelled  in  math  and  science.  But  there  was  just  one  problem. 

"Nice  Jewish  girls  don't  become  doctors,"  her  father,  a  Polish  immigrant, 
decreed. 

Though  she  was  accepted  to  medical  school,  the  young  woman  wouldn't 
disobey  her  father.  Thus,  she  enrolled  in  a  nursing  program  and  enjoyed  a 
long,  successful  career  as  an  RN,  later  earning  a  master's  degree  in  chemistry. 

My  family  always  said  that  this  woman — my  grandmother,  my  Bubbe — 
was  ahead  of  her  time.  In  high  school,  when  women's  sports  were  far  less 
common  than  they  are  today,  Bubbe  not  only  played  sports,  but  she  earned 
a  sweater.  Women  rarely  "sweatered"  in  the  1930s  since,  at  least  in  her  high 
school,  girls  were  required  to  letter  in  three  sports  to  earn  the  sweater. 
(Incidentally,  boys  needed  only  one  sport.) 

My  generation  has  been  lucky  in  that,  on  the  whole,  we  haven't  encoun- 
tered the  kind  of  gender  discrimination  our  mothers  and  grandmothers  faced. 
As  Terese  Kwiatkowski  '83  explains  (see  story,  page  25),  "I'm  sure  it  was  easier 
for  me  to  overcome  gender  issues  because  of  the  women  who  preceded  me, 
and  that  it's  easier  for  those  who've  joined  the  profession  after  me." 

Just  as  I  look  to  my  grandmother  as  a  source  of  inspiration,  I  imagine  that 
she,  too,  would  be  inspired  by  the  very  women  who  comprise  this  issue  of 
Transformations,  which  celebrates  40  years  of  coeducation  at  our  university. 

In  honor  of  this  anniversary,  we've  included  just  a  sampling  of  stories  of 
the  inspiring  and  impressive  work  of  our  alumnae.  We  talk  with  Lesley  (Small) 
Zorabedian  '72,  one  of  the  first  women  to  step  foot  on  campus  as  an  under- 
graduate student,  and  others  about  the  early  years  of  coeducation  here. 

We  tell  the  stories  of  alumnae  in  various  stages  of  their  careers — 
Kwiatkowski,  Judy  Nitsch  '75,  and  Anni  Autio  '82  discuss  their  successful 
careers  in  civil  engineering,  a  field  still  dominated  by  men.  Lisette  Manrique 
'03  (MS'05)  and  Shruti  Pai  '04  (MS'05)  are  poised  to  make  a  difference  in  the 
biomedical  engineering  field.  And  we  talk  with  women  students  and  faculty 
about  the  important  research  and  activities  happening  on  campus  today. 

True,  the  alumnae  in  this  issue  of  the  magazine  are  singled  out  because 
they're  women.  But — and  this  cannot  be  understated — we  acknowledge  and 
celebrate  their  successes  and  accomplishments  regardless  of  their  gender. 

I  like  to  imagine  that,  if  my  Bubbe  could  have  met  them,  she  would  have 
been  blown  away  by  the  impressive  careers  these  alumnae  have  had,  or  are  just 
beginning.  I  picture  her  listening  intently  to  their  stories,  and  conveying  the 
simple  words  of  wisdom  that  she  often  had  for  my  sister  and  me:  "Enjoy," 
she  would  say,  no  matter  the  occasion.  "Just  enjoy." 

With  that,  I  hope  you,  too,  enjoy. 

Thanks  for  reading. 
Charna  Westervelt,  Editor 


Charna  Westervelt 
Editor 

Joan  Killough-Miller 
Alumni  News  Editor 

Peggy  Isaacson 

Graphic  Designer  and  Copy  Editor 

Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Director  of  Research  Communications 

Sarah  O'Brien  Mackey 

Director  of  Executive  Communications 

Dianne  Vanacore 

Print  Production  Coordinator 

Pamela  Mecca 
Design 

Mark  Fisher 
Department  Icons 


Alumni  Communications  Committee 

Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  chair;  Phil  Cyr  '86  (MBA  '02),  James  S. 
Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60,  William  R.  Grogan  '46, 
Dusty  Klauber  '68,  Howard  Levine  '72,  Megan  Lindberg  04, 
Amy  L.  (Plack)  Marr  '96,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50 

Editorial  Board 

Gina  Betti,  Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Innovation; 
Anne  McPartland  Dodd  '75;  Hossein  Hakim,  Electrical  and 
Computer  Engineering;  Dana  Harmon,  Physical  Education, 
Recreation,  and  Athletics;  Calvin  Hill,  Diversity  Programs; 
Natalie  Mello,  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies;  Robert 
Oborne,  Development;  Denise  Rodino,  Corporate  and 
Foundation  Relations;  Robert  Thompson,  Chemical 
Engineering;  Richard  Vaz,  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering,  and  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies. 

www.wpi.  edu/+  Transformations 
email:  transformations@wpi.edu 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily 
reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editor  or  official  WPI  policies. 
Address  correspondence  to  the  Editot,  Transformations, 
WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 
Phone:  508-831-6715;  Fax:  508-831-5820. 

Transformations  (ISSN  1538-5094)  is  published  quarterly  by 
the  Division  of  Marketing  and  Communications  for  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association.  Printed  in  USA  by  Cummings  Printing. 

Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  at  additional 
mailing  offices.  Postmaster:  please  send  address  changes  to  address 
above.  Entire  contents  ©  2008,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


Gem  of  a  Read 

Just  a  quick  note  to  tell  you  that  I  loved  the  current  edition 
of  our  school  publication.  It  came  yesterday.  I  properly  dis- 
posed of  the  other  mail  and  then  picked  up  Transformations 
Two  hours  later,  I  finished  reading  it  from  cover  to  cover — 
just  a  real  gem.  It's  so  full  of  good,  inter- 
esting school  news. 

I  can't  wait  for  the  next  issue. 

Edwin  Campbell  43 

Falmouth,  Maine 

Moved  to  Reconnect 

Last  summer's  Transformations  contained 
approximately  1 50  obituaries — more  than 
six  pages'  worth — and  for  the  first  time  I 
read  them  all  very  carefully.  I  found  the 
synopsis  of  many  distinguished  careers 
inspiring  and  couldn't  help  wondering  the 
degree  to  which  their  WPI  education  had 
made  these  careers  possible. 

It  was  shocking  to  me  to  read  of  the 
death  of  so  many  of  my  classmates.  It's  unfortunate  we  didn't 
have  a  chance  to  communicate  with  those  we  knew  quite  well 
before  they  passed  away,  which,  in  my  case,  included  many 
Phi  Kappa  Theta  fraternity  brothers  with  whom  I  lived  for 
three  years. 

It  would  be  a  kick  to  hear  from  my  classmates.  Care  to 
give  it  a  shot?  I'll  watch  the  mail!  [See  page  36  for  full  note.] 

Don  Lewis  '5 1 

Bethel,  Conn. 


pp&lll 

f. 

i  .^^J 

->t 

**"   A  Path  to  Call       ^ 

"t 

r-       Their  Own    1 

H      _  ^ 

V 

Jk 

Entrepreneurial  Interests 

Congratulations  to  Transformations.  I  enjoyed  your  summer 
issue,  in  part  due  to  my  interest  in  entrepreneurship.  Con- 
tinued good  wishes  to  the  magazine. 

Don  Berth  '57 

Holden,  Mass. 

Donald  F.  Berth  established  the  WPI 
Entrepreneurs  Collaborative  (now  the 
Collaborative  for  Entrepreneurship  and 
Innovation)  following  his  decade  tenure 
as  vice  president  for  university  relations. 

—Ed. 

Furry  Friends 

Editor's  note:  Transformations  received 
an  outpouring  of  letters,  emails,  and 
other  feedback  after  we  ran  the  article 
"Breeding  Business  on  Fertile  Ground," 
which  featured  the  story  of  Jennifer 
Lutz  '94,  an  alpaca  breeder  in  Vermont. 
We  were  both  surprised  and  delighted  to  learn  that  Ms.  Lutz 
is  not  the  only  alpaca-breeding  WPI  alum.  Mike  Busky  '78 
and  his  wife,  Laura,  own  North  Brook  Farm  Alpacas  in 
Berlin,  Mass. 


Alum-what? 

We  offer  this  refresher  course  on  the  use  of  words 
denoting  graduates. . . 

alumna  n.  sing,  [uh-luhm-nah]    A  female  graduate  of  a 
particular  school,  college,  or  university 

alumnae  n.  pi  [ — nee]    More  than  one  female  graduate 

alumnus  n.  sing.  [ — nus]    A  male  graduate  OR  generic 
(either  male  or  female) 

alumni  n.  pi.  [ — ni]    More  than  one  male  graduate 
OR  generic 

Alumnus  and  alumna  come  from  Latin  and  preserve 
Latin  plurals.  WPI  usually  uses  alumni  for  mixed  plural 
(men  and  women). 


A    message    from     President    Berkey 

Expanding  the  WPI  Portrait 

Chronicling  the  first  100  years  of  WPI's  history,  the  marvelous 
book  Two  Towers  concludes  with  a  portrait  of  the  then-current 
students  of  1965.  "These  were  the  men,"  author  Mildred  McClary 
Tymeson  writes,  "who  would  be  doing  the  world's  work  for  the 
rest  of  the  twentieth  century."  How  quickly  times  change!  Just  three 
years  later  the  arrival  of  women  undergraduates  would  forever 
alter  that  portrait,  and  today  it  is  the  men  and  women  of  this 
university  who  are  not  only  doing  the  world's  work,  but  helping 
to  lead  much  of  the  world's  progress  in  the  twenty-first  century. 

When  I  consider  the  early  years  of  coeducation  on  our  campus, 
I  cannot  help  but  wonder  about  the  brave  young  women  who 
stepped  out  of  their  parents'  cars  and  into  WPI  history.  Before 
ever  venturing  into  a  WPI  classroom,  these  students  exhibited 
the  pioneering  spirit  and  independence  of  thought  that  have 
characterized  this  university  since  its  inception.  Today's  women 
undergraduates  still  do.  Deeply  individual,  they  remain  united 
to  their  predecessors  through  their  thirst  for  knowledge,  love  of 
problem  solving,  and  genuine  desire  to  make  a  better  world. 

As  the  stories  in  this  issue  of  Transformations  illustrate  so  beautifully, 
women  have  enjoyed  tremendous  success  at  WPI — and  beyond  our 
university's  borders.  Whether  heading  corporations,  contributing 
breakthrough  advances  for  the  treatment  of  human  diseases,  or 
being  recognized  as  one  of  the  "New  Faces  of  Engineering," 
WPI's  alumnae  are  making  their  mark  as  innovators  and  leaders 
across  the  country  and  around  the  world.  Of  course,  this  comes 
as  no  surprise  to  a  university  that  was  founded  on  the  principle  of 
providing  talented  people  the  opportunity  to  put  their  knowledge 
to  work  in  creative  and  productive  ways. 

Since  those  early  days,  WPI  has  come  a  long  way  in  achieving 
its  aims  for  a  fully  integrated  and  supportive  campus — and  yet 
there  is  still  much  more  we  can  do.  I  am  delighted  that  several  of 
the  goals  set  forth  in  our  newly  revised  Strategic  Plan  pertain  to 
the  experience  and  achievement  of  women  at  WPI.  Chief  among 
these  is  a  significant  increase  in  female  enrollment,  which  currently 
stands  at  26  percent  of  the  undergraduate  community.  We  are 


also  striving  to  make 
WPI  a  leader  in  career 
opportunities  for  women 
faculty  and  staff  through 
stronger  outreach  and 
mentoring  programs, 
a  review  of  the  tenure 
and  promotion  process- 
es to  ensure  equitable 
treatment,  and  the 
recruitment  and  retention 
of  significantly  higher 
numbers  of  outstanding 
female  faculty  and  staff. 

That  WPI  achieve  these 
goals  is  vital  both  for  the 
future  of  the  university 
and  for  the  leadership 
we  can  provide  to  others.  In  a  world  in  which  millions  of  women 
are  still  denied  basic  human  rights,  institutions  like  WPI,  which  are 
exemplars  of  high  achievement,  must  celebrate  the  accomplishments 
of  strong  women  students,  faculty,  and  staff,  as  well  as  alumnae. 
As  a  university,  we  must  foster  a  welcoming  environment  and 
encourage  more  young  women  to  pursue  careers  in  science  and 
engineering.  And  as  the  United  States  faces  mounting  science 
and  engineering  competition  from  other  nations,  we  must  identify 
and  make  full  use  of  all  of  our  talent. 

On  this  historic  anniversary,  we  honor  the  pioneering  individuals 
who  helped  WPI  chart  a  new  course  of  coeducation,  and  we 
recognize  the  vast  changes  that  have  occurred  at  WPI  since  so 
many  gifted  women  have  become  full  participants  in  every  aspect 
of  the  life  of  the  university.  When  the  history  of  WPI's  next  100  years 
is  written  someday,  I  have  no  doubt  that  the  inclusion  of  so  many 
talented  women  in  the  WPI  community  will  unquestionably  take  its 
place  among  the  most  important  advances  in  our  university's 
continuing  evolution. 


In  a  world  in  which  millions  of  women  are  still  denied  basic  human 
rights,  institutions  like  WPI,  which  are  exemplars  of  high  achievement, 
must  celebrate  the  accomplishments  of  strong  women  students, 
faculty,  and  staff,  as  well  as  alumnae. 


A     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


CampusBuzz 


GE's  Immelt  Named 
Commencement  Speaker 


Jeffrey  R.  Immelt,  chairman  and 
CEO  of  General  Electric  Company, 
will  deliver  the  address  at  WPI's 
140th  Commencement  exercises 
May  17.  Immelt  was  appointed  the 
ninth  chairman  of  GE  in  September 
2001;  since  then,  he  has  led  the 
legendary  130-year-old  company 
to  consistent  economic  growth 
around  the  world,  with  an  average 
of  10  percent  annual  financial 
growth  over  the  past  five  years. 


Clinton  "is  Voice 
Heard  at  WPI 

Senator  Hillary  Clinton  chose 
WPI's  Alden  Memorial  as  one  of  20 
national  satellite  simulcast  locations 
for  her  "Voices  Across  America:  A 
National  Town  Hall."  The  first  hour 
of  the  90-minute  event  was  broadcast 
on  the  Hallmark  Channel,  and  those 
attending  had  the  opportunity  to  ask 
questions  to  the  presidential  hopeful 
live  via  satellite.  Senator  Clinton 
anchored  the  Town  Hall  from  New 
York  City;  Massachusetts  Congress- 
man Jim  McGovern  served  as  the 
local  host. 


Students  Honored  for  Making  a  Difference 


WPI  seniors  Jason  Frey,  Ryan  Kendrick,  Jodi  Lowell,  and  John 
Rothermel  traveled  to  Windhoek,  Namibia,  where  they  helped 
residents  of  nearly  4,000  unelectrified  settlements  develop 
renewable  energy  businesses.  For  their  Interactive  Qualifying 
Project,  which  won  first  place  in  the  President's  IQP  Awards 


competition,  they  interviewed  dozens  of  local  families  about  their 
energy  use,  resulting  in  a  toolkit  for  local  entrepreneurs  to  assess 
possibilities  for  introducing  renewable  energy  businesses  to  the 
area.  Such  businesses  would  generate  income  and  bring  accessible 
energy  services  to  communities  without  electricity. 

Advised  by  Robert  Krueger  and  Fred  Looft,  this  IQP  was  one  of 
five  presented  to  a  panel  of  judges  at  the  annual  contest  held  in 
January.  Other  award  winners: 

Second  Place:  "Noise  Data  Farming  for  the  City  of  Boston," 
Shannon  O'Toole,  Brandon  Finzel,  Justin  Perron,  Jacob  Russell 
(advisors:  Chrysanthe  Demetry,  Kevin  Clements) 

Second  Place:  "HIV/AIDS  Prevention  Education:  A  Look  at  the 
HIV/ AIDS  Awareness  Activities  at  the  Polytechnic  of  Namibia," 
Danielle  Dionne,  Amanda  Tichy,  Jessica  Sullivan-Keizer,  Derrick 
DiConti  (advisors:  Robert  Krueger,  Fred  Looft) 

Third  Place:  "Demand  Response  Programs  in  the  Greater  Boston 
Area,"  Michael  Irace,  James  Chryssanthacopoulos,  Chukwunomso 
Agunwamba,  Eyuel  Abebe,  Muzhtaba  Tawkeer  Islam  (advisors: 
James  Doyle,  Alex  Emanuel) 

Third  Place:  "Developing  a  Strategy  to  Improve  Solar  Home 
System  Sustainability  in  Rural  Thailand,"  Gabriel  Baldwin, 
Benjamin  Childs,  Carolyn  Hunter,  Victoria  Urrea  (advisors: 
Bland  Addison,  Seth  Tuler) 


Transformations    \   Spring  2  008     5 


MoreBuzz 


Schilling  Plays  Ball  with  WPI 

Red  Sox  pitcher  Curt  Schilling  paid  a  surprise  visit  in  February 
to  participants  in  Gamejam,  WPI's  38-hour  design  marathon  for 
aspiring  video  game  developers.  The  major  league  pitcher  dropped 
in  with  his  son,  Gehrig,  to  find  students  working  on  games  for  the 
first  Massachusetts  Game  Challenge,  sponsored  by  Schilling's  video 
game  development  company,  38  Studios,  in  Maynard,  Mass. 

During  his  90-minute  visit  in  Atwater  Kent  Labs,  Schilling  chatted 
with  students  and  got  a  sneak  peak  at  their  games  in  progress. 
He  also  compared  notes  with  them  on  favorite  video  games  and 
game  platforms,  and  talked  about  38  Studios'  approach  to 
game  development.  Many  of  the  WPI  students  who  took  part  in 
Gamejam  are  enrolled  in  WPI's  pioneering,  first-in-the-nation 
Interactive  Media  and  Game  Development  major. 


STo.  1 


MBA  Program  Tops 
National  Rankings 

BusinessWeek  ranked  WPI  No.  1  in  the  Northeast  and 
No.  9  in  the  nation  for  its  part-time  Master  of  Business 
Administration  program.  Nationally,  it  ranked  No.  5  in 
student  satisfaction  and  No.  4  in  academic  quality.  The 
Department  of  Management  and  Office  of  the  President 
hosted  a  special  event  in  April  to  celebrate  the  ongoing 
success  of  the  MBA  program. 


6     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


Students  Solve  "Great  Problems" 

It's  not  every  day  that  WPI  visitors  can  learn  from  students 

about  air  pollution  in  China,  fish  stock  depletion  in  Tanzania,  and 
the  feasibility  of  various  photovoltaics  systems.  Or,  maybe  it  is. 

When  Eric  Hahn  '80  came  to  campus  last  fall,  he  charted  with  some 
first-year  students  about  these  very  topics.  The  computer  scientist  and 
entrepreneur  whose  work  has  helped  shape  the  Internet  returned  to  his 
alma  mater  to  visit  with  the  88  first  year  students  who  had  completed 
the  university's  new  Great  Problems  Seminars,  a  pilot  program  he 
helped  start  to  give  first  year  students  real-world  experience  through 
hands-on  project  work.  In  two  seminars — Feed  the  World  and  Power 
the  World — students  addressed  global  problems  focused  on  food, 
health,  and  energy  resources. 

In  speaking  with  the  students  about  their  projects,  Hahn  was 
immediately  impressed  by  their  fresh  ideas  and  thinking.  Though 
not  all  of  their  proposed  solutions  were  immediately  implementable, 
he  observed,  "it  was  exciting  to  see  their  different  perspectives." 


mwpi 


Ronald  Prinn,  internationally  recognized  expert  on  global 
climate  change,  speaks  at  WPI's  third  annual  University  Lecture 
in  December.  Prinn  is  professor  of  atmospheric  research  at  MIT. 


WPI  officially  opened  its  new  Life  Sciences  and  Bioengineer- 
ing  Center  at  Gateway  Park  in  September,  with  a  ribbon-cutting 
ceremony  held  at  the  new  world-class  facility.  In  October,  RXi 
Pharmaceuticals  (founded  by  Nobel  Laureate  Craig  Mello 
signed  a  lease  to  locate  in  the  new  building,  with  the  option 
to  become  the  lead  tenant  of  a  future  100,000-square-foot 
building  planned  for  construction  at  Gateway  Park. 

Gateway  Park  recently  was  given  its  own  street,  Washburn 
Way,  named  for  Ichabod  Washburn,  legendary  entrepreneur 
and  a  WPI  founder.  WPI's  building  has  received  several  honors 
from  the  federal  government,  including  the  prestigious  national 
Phoenix  Award,  and  the  Excellence  in  Economic  Development 
Award  for  Urban  or  Suburban  Development  from  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Commerce. 


$6  Million  from  Alden  Trust 


WPI  has  received  a  $6  million  grant  from  the  George  I.  Alden 
Trust  for  the  renovation  and  integration  of  several  undergraduate 
laboratories  in  Goddard  Hall  into  the  new  Undergraduate  Life 
Sciences  Laboratory  Center  at  WPI.  The  gift,  the  largest  in  the 
Alden  Trust's  95-year  history,  is  the  second  given  to  WPI  by  the 
Trust  in  recent  years  for  the  purpose  of  improving  undergraduate 
academic  facilities.  In  total,  the  Alden  Trust  has  contributed 
$11  million  toward  WPI's  mission  of  improving  life  sciences 
education  at  the  undergraduate  level. 


When  completed,  the  center  will  become  the  university's  main 
facility  for  undergraduate  teaching  and  research  in  biology  and 
biotechnology,  biomedical  engineering,  chemistry  and  biochem- 
istry, and  chemical  engineering.  It  will  promote  cooperation 
and  collaboration  across  the  disciplines,  and  support  increased 
enrollments  in  engineering  and  science  programs.  Work  on 
the  renovation  will  begin  in  July;  its  opening  is  slated  for 
C-Term  2009. 


MoreBuzz 


— ^ 


WPI  Mourns  Loss  of  Emeriti  Professors 


1H ** 


Roger  R.  Borden  '61,  Mechanical 
Engineering,  died  Oct.  29,  2007  at  his 
home  in  Worcester.  Borden  held  a  BS  in 
mechanical  engineering  and  a  BS  in  general 
engineering  from  MIT,  as  well  as  an  MS  in 
mechanical  engineering  from  WPI.  He  was 
an  expert  on  reducing  automotive  emissions 
and  advised  WPI  students  on  their  designs 
for  a  national  Clean  Air  Car  Race.  A  retired 
pastor  of  the  United  Methodist  Church,  he 
studied  at  Assumption  College  and  Andover- 
Newton  Theological  School.  Borden's  wife,  Constance  Elin  (Linberg), 
died  in  April  2007  He  is  survived  by  his  son,  the  Rev.  Andrew 
H.  Borden,  his  daughter,  Meredith  Ann  Borden,  and  three 
granddaughters. 


Kenneth  E.  Scott  '48, 

Mechanical  Engineering, 
founder  of  the  Instructional  Media  Center  at  WPI,  died  Jan.  3, 
2008,  at  his  home  in  Ft.  Myers,  Fla.  An  advocate  of  the  potential 
for  new  technologies  to  improve  learning,  he  created  and  directed 
the  Instructional  Media  Center  (now  the  Academic  Technology 
Center)  and  the  Computer-aided  Design  Laboratory.  An  active 
member  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association,  he  served  as  its  first 
faculty  representative  and  remained  a  loyal  supporter.  His  honors 
include  the  1998  William  R.  Grogan  Award  for  Support  of  the 
Mission  of  WPI,  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees'  Award  for  Outstanding 
Teaching,  and  the  inaugural  endowed  George  I.  Alden  Professor- 
ship in  Engineering.  The  1970  WPI  yearbook,  The  Peddler,  was 
dedicated  to  him.  Scott  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Elizabeth  (Oldham), 
and  three  children. 


See  page  47  for  the  obituary  of  Laddie  Berka,  professor  emeritus  of  chemistry  and  biochemistry.  Complete  obituaries  may  be  read  at 
www.  wpi  .edu/News/Memoriam . 


Inspiring  a  lifetime  of  learning 

in  math,  science,  and  engineering 


The  WPI  K- 12  Outreach 
Program  is  challenging 
students  to  grow  academically 
and  is  making  a  difference  in 
educating  the  next  generation 
of  leaders  and  innovators. 


wpi.edu/+K12 


8     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


THINK  YOU  DON'T 

HAVE  TIME  FOR 
GRADUATE  STUDIES? 

THINK  AGAIN. 


Graduate  Management  programs  for  technology-based 
professions  such  as  IT,  engineering,  biomedical,  and  computing 

THE  INTEGRATION  OF  BUSINESS  AND  TECHNOLOGY 

Your  success  and  personal  growth  are  dependent  upon  how  fast  you  adapt  to  today's  technology-dependent 
business  environment.  Our  innovative  MBA  and  Graduate  Management  programs  focus  on  the  integration  of 
business  and  technology,  giving  you  the  necessary  skills  to  take  your  career  to  new  heights.  Advance  your 
career  with  WPI's  challenging  technology-oriented  business  programs. 

FLEXIBILITY  TO  MEET  YOUR  NEEDS 

Programs  may  be  completed  online,  on  campus,  or  through  a  flexible  combination  of  both.  Online  courses 
at  WPI  offer  the  same  high-caliber  content  and  faculty  as  on-campus  courses. 

QUALITY  PROGRAMS  FOR  THE  TECHNICAL  PROFESSIONAL 

Our  MBA  and  MS  degrees  offer  the  bonus  of  AACSB  business  school  accreditation.  You  will  be  taught 
by  faculty  who  have  worked  and  consulted  in  a  variety  of  technology-based  industries. 


ADVANCE  YOUR  CAREER  ONLINE,  ON  CAMPUS,  OR  BOTH.  IT'S  YOUR  CHOICE. 


■ 

MBA 

■ 

MS  IN  INFORMATION  TECHNOLOGY 

1 

MS  IN  MARKETING  AND  TECHNOLOGICAL  INNOVATION 

i 

MS  IN  OPERATIONS  DESIGN  AND  LEADERSHIP 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

For  more  information 

Call:  508-831-6789 

Email:  online@wpi.edu 

Visit:  www.online.wpi.edu 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Wireless  Research  Earns  CAREER  Award 


Simple  wireless  networks — from  the  Wi-Fi  hotspot  at 
your  local  Starbucks  to  the  cellular  network  that  carries  your 
phone  calls — have  become  commonplace  over  the  past  decade. 
But  there  are  more  complex  varieties  of  wireless  networks 
that  are  only  just  beginning  to  find  real-world  uses. 

Sensor  networks,  for  example,  consist  of  hundreds  or  even 
thousands  of  small  wireless  nodes  (some  as  tiny  as  specks  of 
dust)  that  can  sense  the  environment — monitoring  tempera- 
tures, listening  for  sounds,  detecting  vibrations.  First  used  by 
the  military  to  locate  enemy  submarines  or  track  troop  move- 
ments, sensor  networks  are  being  considered  for  applications  as 


Wenjing  Lou  holds  an  example  of  a  sensor  node,  available  commercially, 
consisting  of  a  low-power,  high-performance  microcontroller,  an  integrated 
onboard  wireless  transceiver,  and  integrated  humidity  and  temperature  sensors. 
Lou's  research  focuses  on  providing  more  reliable  and  efficient  communication 
methods  among  those  nodes  when  they  are  deployed  on  a  large  scale. 


diverse  as  sniffing  for  radiation  leaks  at  nuclear  power  plants, 
guarding  paintings  in  museums,  and  monitoring  traffic  flow 
on  highways. 

Finding  the  most  efficient  and  reliable  ways  to  move  data 
through  these  weblike  networks  is  one  focus  of  the  research 
of  Wenjing  Lou,  assistant  professor  of  electrical  and  computer 
engineering  at  WPI.  Her  early  success  in  this  field  recently 
won  Lou  a  five-year,  $450,000  National  Science  Foundation 
CAREER  Award — the  agency's  most  prestigious  award  for 
young  faculty  members. 

Sensor  networks  differ  from  home  or  office  networks,  in 
which  signals  from  a  laptop  jump  to  a  nearby  access  point  in 
a  single  hop  (the  signals  travel  the  rest  of  the  way  over  wires). 
In  a  sensor  network,  most  of  the  nodes  may  be  far  beyond 
the  reach  of  an  access  point.  Their  signals  must  hop  wirelessly 
from  node  to  node  to  reach  their  ultimate  destination. 
Researchers  call  these  multihop  networks. 

With  her  CAREER  Award,  Lou  is  conducting  a  compre- 
hensive study  of  a  novel  way  of  managing  traffic  in  multihop 
networks.  Typically,  a  node  that  needs  to  send  a  packet  of 
information  down  the  line  looks  at  its  neighboring  nodes 
and  sends  the  packet  to  a  single  node  that  appears  to  have 
the  best  chance  of  passing  the  signal  along  to  the  next  node 
in  the  chain.  The  strategy  is  risky,  since  momentary  signal 
interruptions  may  keep  the  packet  from  getting  through. 

Lou  is  looking  into  another  strategy  called  opportunistic 
routing,  in  which  the  node  sends  the  packet  simultaneously 
to  several  neighbors.  After  receiving  the  packet,  each  node,  in 
turn,  assesses  the  state  of  the  network  and  figures  its  chances 
of  getting  the  packet  through  to  its  neighbors.  The  node 
with  the  highest  probability  of  success  gets  the  nod. 

The  basic  idea  is  simple.  Putting  it  into  practice  has 
proven  difficult,  however,  and  little  is  known  about  how  to 
design  networks  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  technique.  Lou 
will,  for  the  first  time,  produce  a  framework  that  shows  the 
optimum  way  for  nodes  to  share  information,  to  determine 
the  best  path  for  a  data  packet,  and  so  on.  From  this  frame- 
work will  grow  models  and  protocols  that  will  help  network 
designers  use  opportunistic  routing  effectively. 

"Ideally,  we  want  to  be  able  to  make  predictions  about 
the  end-to-end  performance  of  a  network  using  opportunistic 
routing,"  Lou  says.  "With  this  knowledge,  we  can  help  create 
more  reliable  networks,  where  information  gets  through 
more  quickly,  with  fewer  retransmissions." 


10     Transformations    \    Spring  2  008 


The  Big  Picture 


By  Lorraine  U.  Martinelle 


Balancing  Act 

Katarzyna  (Kasia)  Koscielska  '08  has  big  dreams.  But  she's 
no  daydreamer. 

"I  hope  to  contribute  something  to  society"  she  says,  "by  working  for 
an  international  nonprofit  organization  through  the  study  of  genetics 
of  diseases,  cancer,  HIV,  or  other  illnesses  that  plague  people." 

At  21  years  old,  Koscielska  has  already  figured  out  how  to  balance 
her  life  goals  with  being  a  mom,  a  community-recognized  volunteer, 
and  a  WPI  student  double  majoring  in  biology/biotechnology 
and  biochemistry. 

So,  what's  her  secret?  "I  don't  have  one,"  she  admits.  "I  just  do 
what  needs  to  be  done,  as  well  as  I  possibly  can.  That's  all." 

The  Women's  Initiative  of  the  YWCA  in  Worcester  recognized 
that  willing  spirit  last  fall  with  its  Meredith  D.  Wesby  Young  Leader 
Award.  On  campus,  she  has  been  involved  in  myriad  activities. 
She's  a  peer  educator  for  sexual  assault  prevention.  She's  a 
student  ambassador.  And  as  academic  coordinator  for  WPI's 
Camp  Reach  summer  program  last  year,  she's  a  role  model 
for  middle-school  girls  interested  in  math  and  science. 

Kasia  Koscielska  arrived  at  WPI  in  2004  straight  from  Poznan, 
Poland — with  her  toddler-aged  daughter,  Maja,  in  tow.  Her  life 
partner  (and  Maja's  father),  Artur  Jane  '07,  is  now  pursuing  a 
master's  in  computer  science  at  WPI. 

But  getting  to  WPI  wasn't  the  easiest  road.  Koscielska,  who 
speaks  fluent  English,  took  her  high  school  final  exams 
when  she  was  eight  months  pregnant,  and  her  Polish 
university  entrance  exam  only  a  week  after  giving  birth. 
While  caring  for  her  newborn,  she  took  the  SATs  and 
was  awarded  the  WPI  Presidential  Scholarship. 

Her  next  step?  Getting  accepted  into  a  PhD  program 
in  the  biological  sciences. 

"My  daughter  and  my  partner  are  what  keep  me 
going  and  striving  to  be  my  best,"  she  says.  "I  think 
I  have  succeeded,  thanks  to  the  combination  of 
values  that  I  was  brought  up  with  and  my  own 
curiosity  and  diligence." 


^ 


. 


1 


In  Monwabisi  Park,  a  densely  packed  settlement  of 
15,000  people  on  the  outskirts  of  Cape  Town,  South  Africa, 
women  haul  five-gallon  containers  of  water  from  public 
spigots  to  the  one-room  shacks  they  call  home.  Outside  their 
small  dwellings,  the  women  talk  together  as  they  wash  the 
laundry  for  their  families.  They  make  the  exhausting  trudge 
to  the  public  water  pipes  two  or  three  times  for  each  load  of 
laundry,  tossing  the  used  water  onto  the  arid  soil  of  the  streets 
because  there  is  nowhere  else  to  dispose  of  it.  The  water  forms 
puddles  where  insects  breed. 

These  poor  living  conditions — legacies  of  the  apartheid 
era — are  typical  in  South  Africa.  In  Monwabisi  Park,  as  in 
many  settlements  outside  Cape  Town,  five  people  often  share 
a  single  tiny  shack.  Few  families  enjoy  indoor  plumbing. 

M  WPI  students  Lauren  Alex  '09,  Jessy  Cusack  '09, 

Augustina  Mills  '09,  and  Alejandro  Sosa-Boyd  '08 
arrived  in  Monwabisi  Park  last  December  to  com- 
plete an  IQP  that  they  hoped  would  ease  life  for 
the  people  of  this  close-knit  community. 

"Through  discussions  with  our  sponsor, 
Dianne  Womersley  of  the  Shaster  Foundation,  and 
by  talking  with  community  residents,  we  quickly 
confirmed  that  a  communal  laundry  facility  would 
serve  people's  needs  well,"  says  Scott  Jiusto,  director 
of  WPI's  Cape  Town  Project  Center  and  assistant 
professor  in  the  Interdisciplinary  and  Global 
Studies  Division.  The  project  also  met  the  Shaster 


Foundation's  and  the  IQP  project's  sustainable  development 
requirements,  Jiusto  says. 

The  result,  a  fully  functional  and  sustainable  laundry 
facility,  has  been  wildly  successful.  "There  has  been  great 
celebration  from  all  the  women  in  the  vicinity  over  the  new 
laundry,''  Womersley  says.  "It  is  seen  as  a  great  labor-saving 
installation." 

The  new  laundry  facility  is  just  the  latest  addition  to  a 
collection  of  bustling  community  buildings  called  the  Indlovu 
Centre,  which  was  created  in  2006.  From  the  beginning,  the 
Monwabisi  community  worked  cooperatively  with  Womersley 
to  raise  funds  and  participate  in  building  the  Indlovu  Centre. 
Today,  the  Centre's  creche  (daycare  center),  community  clinic, 
soup  kitchen,  guest  house,  and  community  garden  offer  the 
basic  services  most  needed  in  Monwabisi.  The  Centre  also 
runs  programs  that  offer  productive  activities  for  local  chil- 
dren, teach  unemployed  mothers  marketable  crafts,  improve 
literacy  and  professional  skills,  and  promote  good  personal 
and  environmental  health  practices. 

As  it  grows,  the  Indlovu  Centre  holds  to  principles  of 
resource  conservation  and  waste  management.  An  earthworm 
toilet  converts  waste  to  fertilizer  for  the  community  garden, 
while  biogas  digesters  collect  methane  from  natural  decom- 
position. Solar  ovens  made  with  cardboard  boxes  and  alu- 
minum foil  are  used  in  place  of  gas  stoves,  and  a  5,000-liter 
tank  collects  rainwater  from  the  roof  of  the  creche  for  use 
during  the  dry  season. 


1  2     Transformations    \    Spring  2008 


e  rirst  time  we  got  water  running 
sinks,  all  the  kids  came  running  to  see  what  was  going  on.  The 
women  came,  too.  We  were  all  excited." 


-Lauren  Alex  '09 


Eco-laundry 

The  WPI  team  worked  with  Monwabisi  s  Xhosa  people  to 
design  and  build  the  laundry  facility.  Using  rainwater  harvested 
from  the  roof  of  the  Indlovu  youth  center,  and  a  greywater 
irrigation  system  that  waters  the  small  fruit  grove  across  the 
street,  the  facility  is  designed  to  operate  largely  without 
municipal  water  and  to  emit  no  waste. 

Water  for  the  laundry  facility  comes  from  two  1,500-liter 
storage  tanks,  which  stand  on  a  raised  platform  behind  the 
youth  center.  Beneath  these  tanks  are  two  identical  containers 
to  catch  overflow  during  winter  months  when,  the  WPI 
students  estimate,  rainfall  will  exceed  the  laundromat's 
water  needs. 

PVC  tubing,  painted  black  to  make  best  use  of  solar 
heating,  carries  the  stored  water  along  the  side  of  the  youth 
center  to  the  laundry  station  in  front.  Four  stainless  steel  wash 
basins — two  sets  of  two,  facing  one  another — with  individual 
taps  and  inclined  ribbed  edge  are  used  for  washing.  Over  the 
tubs,  a  roof  of  translucent  corrugated  plastic  provides  shade. 
As  the  greywater  drains  from  the  tubs,  it  is  carried  by  tubing 
that  runs  under  the  adjoining  street,  and  waters  three  banana 
and  three  pear  trees  through  slow-drip  irrigation. 

Throughout  the  IQP's  painstaking  design  and  construc- 
tion phases,  local  liaisons  worked  alongside  the  WPI  team.  In 
addition  to  Womersley,  these  collaborators  included  Michael 
Tremeer,  owner  of  the  Eco-Beam  construction  company, 
Patrick  Carrigan,  an  Indlovu  Centre  volunteer,  community 
leader  Buyiswa  Tonono  and  her  husband,  Opah  Tonono, 
and  his  team  of  laborers. 

Children  and  teens  who  frequent  the  Indlovu  youth 
center  also  pitched  in  daily  during  construction.  "About  five 
teenagers  helped  us  almost  every  day,"  says  Alex.  "Little  kids, 
too,  handed  us  tools  and  did  whatever  they  could  to  contribute 
to  the  effort.  It  was  great  to  hang  out  with  them." 


While  only  the  women  of  the  local  Xhosa  community 
do  laundry,  no  such  gender  roles  separated  the  WPI  students. 
Alex  and  Mills  worked  alongside  Cusack  and  Sosa-Boyd  to  dig 
trenches  for  pipes,  realign  roof  gutters  for  rainwater  collection, 
and  build  platforms  for  the  water  tanks.  As  Cusack  notes,  "It 
wasn't  two  guys  and  two  girls.  It  was  four  students  trying  to 
do  a  job." 

Local  miracles 

"The  first  time  we  got  water 
running  through  the  pipes  and 
into  the  sinks,"  Alex  says,  "all 
the  kids  came  running  to  see 
what  was  going  on.  The  women 
came,  too.  We  were  all  excited." 

As  part  of  their  final 
presentation,  the  students  con- 
ducted a  walk-through  of  the 
laundry  station.  Xhosa  women  volunteered  to  wash  clothes, 
demonstrating  the  importance  of  using  biodegradable  soap 
and  turning  off  the  taps  to  conserve  water.  "Everyone  seemed 
impressed  and  happy  with  the  results,"  says  Cusack.  "And 
the  kids  thought  it  was  the  coolest  thing  ever." 

Cool  cash,  too,  will  likely  result  from  the  new  laundry 
facility.  "The  women  love  the  idea  of  making  money  by  doing 
laundry  for  Indlovu  Centre  guests  for  a  small  fee,"  notes  Jiusto. 

Even  more,  the  laundry  facilities  will  be  replicated 
around  Monwabisi  Park.  "The  students'  plan  will  serve  as 
a  blueprint  for  all  the  other  areas  where  we  intend  to  build 
more  community  centers — each  one  with  a  'WPI  laundry 
system'  attached,"  Womersley  says.  "The  WPI  students 
made  a  significant  impact  and  an  invaluable  contribution 
to  a  poverty-stricken  community." 


Photos  provided  by  Jessy  Cusack  '09. 


Transformations    \   Spring  2  008     13 


from  an  early  age,  Susan  Vick's  career  might  have  remained  a  dream  if  not  for  the 
encouragement  of  women  mentors.  "I  come  from  a  long  tradition  of  women  supporting  me,"  she  says. 

Vick,  who  has  overseen  WPI's  drama  and  theatre  programs  since  1981,  produced  her  first  play 
at  age  5  at  her  home  in  the  Blue  Ridge  Mountains  of  North  Carolina.  "I  was  hell-bent  for  it," 
she  says.  "But  the  idea  of  doing  theatre  for  a  living  was  very  remote." 

Her  parents  hoped  she  might  follow  a  traditional  career  path,  but  a  few  teachers  saw  the 
potential  for  something  more.  At  Catawba  College,  for  example,  where  she  was  a  history 
major,  her  European  history  instructor  told  her,  "You  love  history,  Susan,  but  your 
passion  is  theatre.  You're  just  going  to  have  to  do  something  about  that." 

What  she  did  was  enroll  at  Southern  Methodist  University,  where,  in  1969,  she 
became  the  first  woman  to  earn  an  MFA  in  directing.  Through  posts  in  academia, 
including  Bowdoin  College,  where  she  was  acting  director  of  theatre,  she 
developed  a  zeal  for  teaching.  Returning  to  school,  she  earned  a  PhD  in  theatre 
at  the  University  of  Illinois — again,  she  was  the  first  women  to  do  so. 

As  the  1980s  dawned,  Vick's  theatre  resume  was  growing  at  an  impressive 
pace.  There  were  awards  for  acting,  more  than  20  directing  milestones,  and  a 
budding  career  as  a  playwright — including  a  script  accepted  for  production 
by  the  Ensemble  Studio  Theatre  in  New  York.  "Still,"  she  says,  "I  needed 

to  have  a  little  more  bread  on  my  table." 

When  a  position  opened  at  WPI,  she  applied.  The  fact  that  the  job  required  . 

directing  two  productions  a  year  was  a  plus.  "It's  very  difficult  to  get  those  /\ 

jobs  where  you  also  direct,"  she  says.  She  recalls  thinking  the  job  might  i\ 
provide  a  short  bridge  to  the  next  phase  of  her  theatre  career. 

But  she  stayed,  in  part,  because  of  friendships  with  other  women  faculty 
members  (including  JoAnn  Manfra,  who,  as  head  of  the  Humanities  and 
Arts  Department,  became  an  important  mentor  and  supporter),  and  the 
opportunity  to  work  with  WPI  students.  Her  resume  continued  to  grow: 
founding  New  Voices,  the  longest  running  university  new  plays  festival  in 
America;  becoming  the  first  woman  to  win  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees' 
Award  for  Outstanding  Teaching,  and  the  third  to  become  a  full 
professor;  and  shepherding  the  creation  of  the  Little  Theatre, 
WPI's  first  dedicated  theatrical  venue. 


She  considers  WPI's  theatre  program  unusual  because  it  spans  so  many 
student  affiliations,  something  you  would  not  see  at  many  other  schools.  "I've 
always  had  great  relationships  with,  among  others,  WPI's  athletic  coaches, 
who've  encouraged  their  undergraduates  to  take  part,"  she  says.  "There's 
always  that  person  in  an  area  you  wouldn't  expect  who  wants  to  participate. 
Here  it's  legitimate.  You  can  do  it.  Everybody  has  a  place  at  our  table." 

Looking  back,  Vick  is  pleased  to  realize  that  many  of  her  fondest  WPI  memories 
have  to  do  with  the  achievements  of  female  students — most  notably,  the  four  trips 
by  playwright  Catherine  Darensbourg  '02  to  the  Samuel  French  Off-Off  Broadway 
Original  Short  Play  Festival  in  New  York;  and  the  many  women  who've  blossomed 
as  actresses,  playwrights,  directors,  and  theatre  majors  and  minors. 

"I  work  hard  to  find  the  best  person  for  the  job,  from  the  wee  roles  to  the 
producer,"  she  says.  "I'm  pleased  that,  so  often  through  the  years, 

the  best  person  has  been  a  woman. 


in 


«2 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


4 


ormations    \   Spring  2008     \  5 


As  WPI  celebrates  the  40th 
anniversary  of  its  becoming 

a  coeducational  university, 

Transformations  speaks  with 

alumnae  who  lived  through 

the  early  years,  and  with 

current  students,  faculty,  and 

staff  about  the  importance  of 

women  in  the  STEM  fields. 


In  the  fall  of  1968,  Jayne  Rosetti  and  Lesley  Small  (opposite  page)  were  the  first 
female  undergraduates  to  enroll  at  WPI,  both  math  majors.  They  had  to  commute 
to  classes  since  there  was  no  housing  for  women  on  campus.  The  following  year, 
24  women  were  admitted;  five  of  them  commuted  and  19  lived  on  the  first  floor 
of  Sanford  Riley  Hall.  Today,  over  25  percent  of  each  incoming  freshman  class 
is  women — and  that  number  continues  to  grow. 


When  Lesley  (Small)  Zorabedian  '71  entered  WTI  in 
1968.  she  was  one  of  just  two  female  students  at  a  university 
that  had,  for  its  first  100  years,  kept  its  doors  closed  to  women. 
"I  felt  very  lonely"  she  recalls.  The  campus  offered  no  resi- 
dence halls  for  women,  so  Zorabedian  commuted  during  her 
freshman  vear  from  her  home  in  nearby  Spencer.  "I  went  to 
class  and  came  home.  The  library  was  my  home  base,  partic- 
ularly since  there  were  so  few  women's  restrooms  elsewhere 
on  campus." 

In  the  40  years  since  Zorabedian  stepped  foot  on  campus, 
the  university  has  undergone  extensive  transformations.  All 
12  residence  halls  are  now  co-ed.  Over  time,  more  profound 
changes  were  wrought — from  higher  numbers  of  women 
faculty  and  high-level  administrators,  to  programs  geared  to 
recruit  and  support  women  students. 

Of  course,  these  changes  did  not  happen  overnight.  .As 
Lorri  I  Lind)  Caruso  Byrne  "~3  attests.  WPI  was  in  some  ways 
ill-prepared  for  its  first  cohorts  of  female  students.  "From  the 


The  Women  of  WPI 


By  Eileen  McCluskey 


Tram  for matio  m    j    Spring  2008      1  7 


made  in  attracting  and  retaining  these 
very  talented,  motivated  women/' 


orientation  package  that  told  us  to  bring  jacket  and  tie  for 
Sunday  dinners- — we  did,  and  we  wore  them! — to  the  half 
floor  of  Sanford  Riley  Hall  where  preparations  consisted  of  a 
WOMEN  sign  on  the  men's  room  door  and  locked  entrances 
at  either  end  of  the  hall,  we  knew  the  university  had  not  put 
a  lot  of  thought  into  what  women  students  would  need."  she 
says.  "But  Dean  [Bernie]  Brown  arid  others  in  the  administra- 
tion were  wonderful,  as  was  Ma  Riley  [Elaine  Kowalewski  '71, 
the  first  female  residence  assistant],  and  most  of  us  survived. 

From  1  in  74  to  1  in  4,  and  counting 

"I  Ve  seen  tremendous  change  in  my  27  years  at  WPI,"  savs 
Janet  Begin  Richardson,  vice  president  for  student  affairs  and 
campus  life.  "We've  brought  in  many  more  female  students, 
as  well  as  more  female  staff  and  faculty." 

Indeed,  women  comprise  26  percent  of  the  Class  of  2008. 
While  that  figure  hovers  slightly  below  the  national  average  of 
29  percent  for  female  technological  majors,  it's  a  far  en'  from 
the  early  days  ol  coeducation.  In  September  1969,  12  months 
after  the  first  two  female  students  were  admitted,  24  women 
entered  WPI.  changing  the  men-women  ratio  to  a  still  steeply 
tilted  74:L 

To  be  sure,  the  number  of  female  students  increased  dur- 
ing the  1970s,  but,  as  alumnae  recall,  it  was  still  intimidating 
at  times  to  be  a  woman  on  campus.  "I  came  from  an  all-girls 
high  school."  says  Man-  Farren  McDonald  '79,  CEO/CTO  of 
the  McDonald  Consulting  Group.  "To  say  that  I  had  culture 
shock  at  WPI  is  an  understatement. 

"I  couldn't  figure  out  how  everyone  knew  my  name,  and 
kept  racking  my  brain  for  where  I  had  met  them,"  she  says  of 
all  the  friendly  greetings  she  received.  "Onlv  later  did  I  find 
out  that  all  the  guys  studied  the  Freshmen  Record  to  learn 
the  girls  names. 

Allison  J.  Huse  Xunn  '73  recalls  a  similar  memory. 
Walking  across  the  Quad  with  a  female  friend,  thev  were 
greeted — by  name — by  nearly  even-one  who  passed  them. 
"It  was  pretty-  intimidating  at  times,"  she  admits. 

But.  says  Xunn.  "each  year  was  a  little  easier,  as  more 
classes  with  female  members  matriculated.  By  the  time  I 
graduated,  the  incoming  freshman  women  were  accepted  as 
rightful  members  of  the  class  by  most  even-one  on  campus." 

As  recently  as  2000,  only  18  percent  of  WTTs  entering 
class  was  female,  reports  Kristin  Tichenor,  vice  president  for 


enrollment  management.  "From  the  time  I  joined  WPI,  it 
was  made  clear  that  our  university-  had  a  strong  interest  in 
and  commitment  to  enrolling  more  women." 

Looking  at  today's  1 :4  ratio  of  female  students  to  male, 
she  says,  "It's  obvious  that  there  is  more  work  to  be  done, 
but  I  am  pleased  by  the  progress  WPI  has  made  in  attracting 
and  retaining  these  very  talented,  motivated  women.  We  will 
continue  working  vigorously  to  encourage  young  women 
with  great  ability-  and  aptitude  to  enroll  at  WPI." 

Power  lunches 

As  women  students  began  to  make  inroads  at  WPI,  so  too 
did  female  faculty-.  Today,  50  of  the  university's  242  full-time 
faculty-  members  are  women.  At  the  same  time,  "Women 
faculty-  still  tend  to  feel  isolated,"  says  Michelle  Ephraim, 
associate  professor  of  English.  Sensing  a  need  to  support  her 
colleagues,  she  and  Isa  Bar-On,  professor  of  mechanical  engi- 
neering, founded  the  Women's  Faculty-  Network  in  2004. 
The  network  holds  informal  brown  bag  lunches  once 
every  term.  Through  these  confidential  discussions,  newer 
faculty-  and  seasoned  colleagues  trade  stories  and  advice  on 
issues  from  the  tenure  process  to  committee  work  to  class- 
room dynamics.  "These  informal  bonds  really  help  us," 


1  8     Transformations    |   Spring  2008 


WPI's  First  Lady 


While  the  decision  to  admit  "co-eds"  as  undergraduates  in 
1968  changed  the  face  of  WPI  dramatically,  WPI's  first  female 
graduate,  Audrey  Carlan,  hardly  caused  a  ripple  when  she 
earned  a  master's  degree  in  physics  in  1957.  She  did  make  news 
headlines,  though.  Graduating  with  her  husband  and  classmate, 
Alan  Carlan,  WPI's  first  married  couple  soon  became  the  parents 
of  the  first  full-blood  alumni  baby.  The  Worcester  Evening  Gazette 
headline  called  the  Carlans  a  "Precedent-Shattering  Pair." 

The  newspaper  clipping  has  yellowed  and  faded,  and  the  baby  is 
now  a  50-year-old  systems  analyst.  But  Audrey  Carlan's  memories 
of  her  pioneering  achievements  are  fresh  and  vibrant. 

"I  never  felt  that  as  a  woman  I  was  treated  any  differentfy  from 
the  men,"  says  Carlan,  professor  emeritus  of  mathematics  at  Los 
Angeles  Community  College.  "I  always  believed  that  WPI  was 
more  interested  in  starting  its  graduate  physics  program." 

The  Carlans  met  as  undergraduates  majoring  in  mathematics  at 
Brooklyn  College.  Later,  they  went  to  work  for  American  Optical  in 
Southbridge,  Mass.,  where  scientists  Harold  Osterberg  and  Gordon 
Walker  were  influential  in  shaping  Audrey  Carlan's  career.  At 
American  Optical,  the  Carlans  took  advantage  of  on-site  courses 
in  advanced  mathematics  and  physics  offered  through  WPI. 
When  the  program  shifted  to  the  WPI  campus,  only  the  Carlans 
continued,  earning  WPI's  first  graduate  degrees  in  physics. 

Audrey  Carlan's  investigations  of  the  electromagnetic  scattering 
properties  of  spheroids — done  on  an  IBM  650  console  that  was 


bigger  than  a  refrigerator — 

could  be  considered  WPI's  first 

computer  science  project.  She 

is  the  author  of  a  practical  text  , 

called  "Everyday  Mathemat 

for  the  Numerically  Challen^ 

which  she  initially  wanted  to  call 

"Calculating  Women."  A  sailor, 

certified  navigator,  libertarian, 

and  competitive  bridge  player, 

Carlan  is  the  mother  of  three 

children  and  enjoyed  55  years 

of  marriage  to  Alan  before  he        ' 

passed  away  in  2006.  She  remains  active  at  the  Rancho  Palos 

Verdes,  Calif.,  home  that  she  and  her  husband  landscaped  with 

rose  bushes  and  dozens  of  fruit  and  nut  trees. 

Over  the  years,  the  Carlans  enjoyed  meeting  up  with  other  WPI 
alumni  at  regional  events,  where  everyone  initially  assumed  that 
Audrey  was  "just  another  alumni  wife."  She  got  a  good  laugh  from 
their  50th  Reunion  invitation,  which  read,  "Bring  your  wife  along." 

"Of  course,  Alan  was  gone  at  that  point,  but  I  called  the  alumni 
office  to  remind  them  that  I'm  a  grad,  too.  We  used  to  joke  that  WPI 
thought  I  was  'Aubrey,'  not  'Audrey,'"  she  says.  "When  I  enrolled, 
there  was  no  place  on  the  application  to  check  Male  or  Female. 
Until  I  appeared  on  campus,  I  don't  think  WPI  knew  I  was  a  woman." 

— Joan  Killough-Miller 


Ephraim  says.  "We  become  better  informed  about  what's 
going  on  around  the  university." 

Eleanor  Loiacono,  associate  professor  of  management, 
was  in  the  midst  of  her  tenure  process  when  the  network 
started.  She  jumped  in,  attending  lunches  and  soliciting 
advice  from  her  more  senior  female  colleagues.  She  obtained 
tenure  last  year.  "1  still  benefit  from  the  multiple  perspectives 
I  get  from  my  peers  in  the  Women's  Faculty  Network  on 
the  post-tenure  management  of  my  career,"  she  says. 

Kristin  V. bbbe,  associate  professor  and  interim  depart- 
ment head  of  chemistry  and  biochemistry,  notes,  "I'm  the 
only  female  faculty  member  in  my  department.  I  can  talk 
with  my  male  colleagues  about  the  same  issues  I  discuss 
with  my  female  colleagues,  but  I  get  a  different  perspective 
from  the  women  faculty." 

Priming  the  pipeline 

For  years,  girls  did  not  attend  institutions  like  V.TI  because 
they  weren't  taking  the  high  level  math  and  science  needed  for 
admission.  Now,  young  women  are  taking  the  right  classes, 
but  often  don't  find  these  fields  attractive.  "Our  challenge  is  to 
help  them  see  how  a  career  in  science,  math,  or  engineering 
can  impact  the  world  in  positive  wavs.    Tichenor  savs. 


That's  why  W'TI  has  developed  aggressive  K-12  Outreach 
programs  for  girls  and  other  underrepresented  populations. 
"These  programs,"  notes  Tichenor,  "emphasize  how  exciting 
science,  math,  and  engineering  can  be  and  how  it  can  help 
them  make  the  world  a  better  place. 

K-12  Outreach,  operated  through  the  Office  of 
Academic  Affairs,  offers  over  40  programs  for  students  from 
kindergarten  through  high  school  and  their  teachers.  All  pro- 
grams are  developed  and  run  by  WPI  faculty  and  staff,  and, 
says  program  director  Martha  Cyr  (MS   8~.  PhD  '97),  "thev 
encourage  girls  to  feel  as  empowered  as  bovs  to  perform  aca- 
demically." 

Related  outreach  programs  are  offered  through  the  Office 
of  Women's  Programs  for  girls  in  middle-  through  high  school. 
WPI  sophomore  Renee  Walker  worked  with  two  of  the  resi- 
dential programs  last  summer,  helping  girls  about  to  enter 
~th  grade  (Camp  Reach),  and  those  about  to  enter  grades  9 
to  12  ( WLNDERS:  Women  Understanding  Xew  Dimensions 
in  Engineering  Related  Sciences).  "It  was  lovelv  to  interact 
with  the  girls,    says  Walker.  "They  reminded  me  of  mv  three 
younger  sisters  back  home  in  Jamaica.  As  I  encouraged  these 
girls  to  become  engineers.  I  felt  that  I  was  helping  them  reach 
for  their  dreams.  I  hope  my  sisters  will  do  the  same." 


Transformations    \   Spring  2008      I  9 


f  *  1 


*> 


A  WINning  network 

Of  the  variety  of  initiatives  provided  bv  the  Office  of  Women's 
Ptogtams.  perhaps  none  is  more  popular  than  the  Women's 
Industrv  Network.  (WIN),  a  mentoring  and  networking  group 
for  WPI's  female  students. 

Each  year,  over  200  women  sign  up  for  WIN,  reports 
directot  of  women's  programs  Shelley  Nicholson.  Students 
meet  female  engineering  and  science  professionals — many  of 
whom  are  WPI  alumnae — for  four  evenings  or  dinner,  panel 
discussions,  and  small-group  conversations.  Groups  of  four 
or  five  students  are  paired  with  a  professional  according  to 
academic  and  professional  interests.  The  clusters  also  meet 
informally  at  other  times  during  the  year. 

Graduate  student  Rachel  Berg  "0~  knows  that  her  par- 
ticipation in  WIN  made  it  easier  to  find  the  kind  of  work 
she  has  craved  since  elementary  school. 

Through  WIN.  she  met  Lonnie  DeLuca  02.  who  intro- 
duced her  to  an  internship  at  GE  Aviation  last  year.  Berg  has 
since  been  offered  a  full-time  position  there,  "and  I  would 
love  to  take  it,"  she  says,  "but  I'm  currently  weighing  my 
options  between  going  into  industry  and  pursuing  a  PhD  in 
space  propulsion." 


DeLuca,  a  process  manager  and  engineering  programs 
specialist  with  GE,  says  she  devotes  time  to  WIN  "because 
I  want  to  give  back  to  a  terrific  institution.'"  She  has  introduced 
GE  to  so  many  talented  WTI  students — both  female  and 
male — that  the  company  recently  put  her  in  charge  of 
entry-level  recruiting  for  its  Engineering  Development  and 
Operations  Management  Leadership  programs. 

Sara  Duran  08,  an  electrical  and  computer  engineering 
major  who  has  been  a  member  of  WIN  since  her  freshman 
vear,  also  found  the  program  to  be  beneficial — she  met  other 
women  students  and  connected  with  female  professionals  in 
her  field. 

"It's  not  often  that  you'll  find  yourself  in  a  room  with  over 
200  women  who  will  be  the  leaders  of  tomorrow,"  she  says. 

.As  an  ECE  major,  Duran — who  will  head  to  Duke 
University  this  fall  to  pursue  a  PhD  in  the  same  field — 
explained  that  it's  not  always  easy  to  be  surrounded  by  so 
manv  men,  especially  in  the  classroom.  "The  hardest  part 
for  me  was  connecting  with  other  woman,"  she  says. 
"But  overall,  male  students  and  professors  don't  look  at 
us  as  women.  They  see  us  as  engineers.    D 


20     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


Judy  Nitsch  '75,  Anni  Autio  '82,  and  Terese  Kwiatkowski  '83 

share  more  than  an  alma  mater.  They  hold  the  unique  distinction  of  being  the  first 
three  women  presidents  of  the  oldest  engineering  society  in  the  United  States — 
the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  Section  (BSCES)  of  the  American  Society  of 
Civil  Engineers.  In  fact,  the  current  and  fourth  female  president,  Linda  Hager, 
also  has  ties  to  WPI — she  took  graduate  courses  here. 

Transformations  asked  these  remarkable  alumnae  to  share  their  thoughts  on 
careers,  professional  organizations,  and  the  importance  of  reaching  out  to 
other  women  in  a  mostly  male  profession. 


Paving  the  Way 


By  Joan  Killough-Miller 


WPI's  Alumnae  Dynasty  at  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers 


■e  first  eight  years 
of  my  career,  I  was  the 
only  woman  engineer 
1  my  workplace." 


Judith  Nitsch 

President,  Nitsch 
Boston,  Mass. 
BSCES  President, 


* 


- 


>>> 


Judy  Nitsch  feels  fortunate  to  have  started  her  career 
working  for  a  WPI  alumnus — she  considers  Jim  Dunn  '61 
a  great  engineering  mentor,  who  helped  her  navigate  the 
ins  and  outs  of  the  profession.  But  despite  the  early  success, 
she  later  learned  that  his  firm  almost  didn't  hire  her.  "They 
wondered  if  I  could  use  a  chain  saw,"  she  savs,  "and  they 


wondered  if  I  could  handle  working  with  the  men  on  job 
sites.  They  didn't  realize  that  I  have  five  younger  brothers." 

Though  she  has,  in  fact,  never  operated  a  chain  saw, 
Nitsch's  engineering  career  hasn't  suffered.  In  1989,  she 
founded  Nitsch  Engineering  and  built  a  team  of  70  employ- 
ees and  nine  shareholders.  Today  the  firm  provides  civil 


2  2     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


engineering,  land  surveying,  transportation  engineering,  and 
planning  services,  along  with  GIS  (geographic  information 
services)  on  projects  in  1 5  states  and  six  countries.  She  has 
advanced  her  firm  to  the  forefront  of  sustainable  design  by 
creating  and  implementing  green  techniques  on  projects, 
which  has  led  to  working  with  world- renowned  architects  here 
and  abroad.  Noteworthy  projects  include  the  New  England 
Aquarium,  Brooklyn  Bridge  Park,  the  Connecticut  Science 
Center,  Boston's  Big  Dig,  Atlantic  Yards  in  Brooklyn,  Acadia 
National  Park,  and  the  award-winning  Metro  West  Water 
Supply  Tunnel  project. 

"About  one  third  of  Nitsch  Engineering's  engineers  are 
women — compared  with  10  percent  nationally,"  she  says. 
"We  look  for  the  best  qualified  candidates  of  both  genders, 
but  I  think  women  seek  us  out  because  they  see  women  at  all 
levels  of  our  firm,  including  three  women  engineers  as  share- 
holders. They  realize  they  would  have  a  good  opportunity  to 
get  ahead  without  discrimination." 

From  Taking  Notes  to  Taking  Charge 

In  1975,  Nitsch's  name  came  up  as  the  "token  woman 
tapped  to  serve  on  the  BSCES  planning  committee  for  the 
upcoming  ASCE  convention  in  Boston.  When  she  received 
the  list  of  committee  assignments,  she  was  surprised  to  learn 
that  she  had  been  appointed  chair  of  a  subcommittee. 

"I  went  to  the  first  planning  meeting  and  found  I  was 
the  only  woman  engineer.  The  other  women  there  were  engi- 
neers' wives,  who'd  come  to  plan  the  'women's  program  for 
the  spouses.  I  was  asked  to  take  minutes.  I  did.  At  the  second 
meeting,  I  was  asked  again  to  take  minutes.  I  suggested 
rotating  that  responsibility.  They  did." 

After  the  convention,  Nitsch  was  asked  to  join  the  BSCES 
Membership  Committee,  and  she  became  its  chair  a  year 
later.  She  was  then  asked  to  join  the  Board  of  Directors,  and 
she  later  served  as  its  secretary,  followed  by  vice  president, 
which  led  to  the  presidency. 

"I  gained  a  lot  of  credibility  through  BSCES,"  she  says. 
"And  once  I  started  my  own  business  [then  called  Judith 
Nitsch  Engineering],  I  realized  that  name  recognition  was 
invaluable." 

The  first  alumna  appointed  to  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees, 
Nitsch  currently  serves  on  its  Facilities  Committee,  which 
she  considers  a  highlight  or  her  professional  career.  In  2006 
she  was  profiled  in  Changing  Our  World,  an  ASCE  publica- 
tion designed  to  inspire  young  women  considering  a  future 


in  engineering.  Since  graduating  from  WPI,  she  has  actively 
helped  other  women  through  her  participation  in  the  Society 
of  Women  Engineers  (SWE)  and  BSCES.  As  well,  Nitsch 
Engineering  continues  to  organize  Boston's  Introduce  a  Girl 
to  Engineering  Day. 

"I  will  speak  with  any  woman  engineer  who  calls  asking 
for  career  advice,  because  as  a  young  engineer  I  had  no  women 
to  talk  with  professionally,"  she  says.  "For  the  first  eight  years 
of  my  career,  I  was  the  only  woman  engineer  at  my  workplace. 

"I  tell  young  women  engineers  to  remember:  all  of  the 
rookies — male  or  female — on  the  construction  site  get  teased 
and  embarrassed  by  the  old-timers.  And  usually  the  newbie 
is  asked  to  get  coffee.  That's  just  a  rite  of  passage,"  she  says. 
"Being  the  only  woman  is  sometimes  lonely,  and  often 
enlightening,  but  it  helps  folks  remember  you. 

When  Anni  Autio  graduated  and  entered  the  job  market, 
entry-level  civil  engineering  job  opportunities  were  scarce.  "I 
received  close  to  100  rejection  letters,"  she  recalls.  "This  was 
not  uncommon,  particularly  in  the 
New  England  area." 

What  was  unusual — perhaps 
1        J*"\  unheard  of  among  male  engineering 

graduates — was  her  first  job  offer: 
a  word  processor,  with  the  promise 
that  she  would  advance  to  full-time 
engineering  assignments  soon.  "My  foot  is  in  the  door,  and  I'm 
excited,"  she  wrote  in  an  optimistic  note  to  WPI's  class  notes 
editor  in  March  1984.  During  a  company  hiring  freeze,  she 
was  promoted  to  an  entry-level  engineering  position,  and  for 
several  years,  she  was  the  only  woman  in  her  group. 

"Throughout  my  early  career,  I  handled  a  number  of 
gender  bias  issues,  including  lower  pay,  lack  of  advancement, 
and  the  denial  of  training  requests  to  support  project  work. 
When  I  joined  CDM  in  1989,  I  found  a  workforce  that  had 
more  women  than  I  had  ever  worked  with  at  previous  firms." 

A  Career  Commitment 

Autios  involvement  in  ASCE  began  at  WPI's  student  chapter, 
where  she  served  as  secretary  during  her  senior  vear.  "I  had 
absolutely  no  idea  at  that  time  how  my  future  would  change, 
how  my  professional  contact  network  would  expand,  or  that 
I  would  continue  to  develop  my  leadership  skills." 

After  graduation,  she  remained  in  touch  with  Judy  Nitsch, 
whom  she  had  met  through  SWT.  A  few  vears  later,  a  colleague      y    y 


Transformations    \   Spring  2008     23 


>> 


invited  her  to  become  a  member  of  a  new  BSCES  committee 
on  infrastructure.  "From  there,  my  civil  engineering  career 
was  launched,"  she  says. 

Highlights  of  Autio's  service  as  BSCES  president  includ- 
ed overseeing  the  society's  150th  anniversary  celebration  and 
serving  on  the  local  organizing  committee  for  the  1998  ASCE 
Annual  Conference  in  Boston.  "Professional  organizations 
provide  opportunities  for  members  to  gain  leadership  skills," 
she  says.  "I  view  my  ASCE  membership  as  a  commitment 
to  my  career.  I'm  proud  to  have  been  elected  to  serve  two 
consecutive  terms  on  the  ASCE  National  Board." 

"The  climate  has  changed  significantly  since  I  graduated," 
she  says.  "Women  now  have  an  equal  chance  to  enter  the 
workforce  and  are  protected  by  equal  opportunity  and  zero 


tolerance  [anti-harassment]  policies  in  the  workplace.  New 
technology — for  instance,  telecommuting — is  also  helping  to 
balance  the  work-family  equation,  so  that  one's  professional 
life  can  be  more  flexible  and  less  stressful  than  it  was  even 
10  years  ago. 

"The  future  looks  brighter  and  there  are  open  opportu- 
nities for  leadership  and  advancement.  This  is  due  in  part  to 
the  perseverance  of  the  pioneering  women  who  helped  open 
the  door  to  a  more  diverse  and  friendly  work  environment," 
Autio  says. 

"In  1982,  when  I  attended  my  first  SWE  convention  in 
Detroit,  600  women  attended.  In  1995,  1,800  women  attended. 
I  don't  know  the  exact  numbers  today,  but  I  do  know  that  it 
is  less  lonely  to  be  a  woman  in  the  workforce  now." 


It  was  Terese  Kwiatkowski's 

father,  a  hydropower  engineer, 
who  inspired  her  fascination  with 
building  underground.  At  WPI, 
she  excelled  in  basketball,  field 
hockey,  and  softball.  She  was  the 
first  basketball  player  ever  to  reach 
the  1,000-point  mark  in  just  three 
seasons.  She  graduated  the  all-time 
leading  scorer,  with  1,441  points, 
and  was  inducted  into  WPI's 
Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  in  1989. 

At  GZA  GeoEnvironmental, 
Kwiatkowski  rose  from  field 
engineer  to  office  project  engineer 
to  project  manager  and  then  to 
principal.  Today  she  leads  a  team 
of  1 1  engineers,  providing  geo- 
technical  design  for  foundations, 
tunnels,  dams,  utilities,  marine 
facilities,  transportation,  and  tem- 
porary underground  structures. 
Her  major  projects  include  New 

York  City's  Second  Avenue  Subway,  Bostons  Big  Dig  Central 
Artery  Tunnel,  and  the  former  Fleet  Center  (now  TD  Bank- 
north  Garden). 

"I  have  always  had  good  support  from  my  colleagues  and 
my  company,"  she  says.  "I  generally  feel  that  I  was  neither  held 
back  nor  favored  because  I  am  a  woman."  Only  once,  on  a 
site  visit  to  a  tunnel  construction  project,  did  Kwiatkowski 
encounter  resistance,  from  an  elevator  operator  who  was  reluc- 
tant to  take  her  underground.  "I  was  informed  that  tradition 
holds  that  it's  unlucky  for  women  to  go  into  tunnels,"  she  says. 
"My  colleagues  quickly  intervened.  The  situation  was  over 
in  about  a  second.  Since  that  episode,  I  have  visited  many 
underground  projects,  none  of  which  had  any  subsequent 
disastrous  effects." 

A  Legacy  of  Accomplishment 

Many  of  the  GZA  principals  were  active  in  BSCES,  including 
founders  Don  Goldberg  and  Bill  Zoino,  and  Kwiatkowski 
was  encouraged  to  join  that  legacy. 

"Being  part  of  BSCES  allows  me  to  apply  and  develop 
leadership  and  management  skills  that  I  incorporate  in  my 
professional  work,"  she  says.  As  BSCES  president,  Kwiatkowski 


worked  closely  with  the  Younger  Members  Group  in  an  effort 
to  improve  communication  between  this  group  and  the  board. 
Other  milestones  include  converting  BSCES  News  from  hard 
copy  to  electronic  distribution,  launching  a  cable  TV  show 
called  Civil  Engineering  Today,  which  airs  monthly  on  the 
Boston  Neighborhood  Network,  and  drafting  a  strategic 
action  plan  for  2009-2014. 

Kwiatkowski,  a  member  of  WPTs  Civil  and  Environmental 
Engineering  Advisory  Board,  continues  to  provide  oversight  to 
a  number  of  BSCES  committees,  and  serves  on  The  Engineer- 
ing Center  board  of  directors  and  the  board  of  trustees  for 
The  Engineering  Center  Education  Trust. 

She  points  to  numbers  showing  that  women  are  still  very 
much  a  minority  in  civil  engineering.  "However,"  she  insists, 
"women  have  been  part  of  the  field  for  quite  a  while  now, 
and  my  perception  is  that  if  you  understand  the  work  and 
can  communicate  clearly,  there  should  be  no  gender  issue. 

"It's  more  of  a  competence  issue,  which  applies  to  both 
women  and  men,"  she  says.  "I'm  sure  it  was  easier  for  me  to 
overcome  gender  issues  because  of  the  women  who  preceded 
me,  and  that  it's  easier  for  those  who've  joined  the  profession 
after  me."  II 


Transformations    \   Spring  2008     25 


It's  been  nearly  a  decade  since  Lisette  Manrique  and 

Shruti  Pai  first  crossed  paths  at  WPI.  Manrique,  pictured, 

a  Massachusetts  native  whose  parents  had  come  from 

Colombia  and  Puerto  Rico,  was  starting  her  sophomore 

year  after  transferring  from  Boston  University.  Pai,  the 

daughter  of  Indian  parents,  had  spent  her  childhood 

in  Zambia  before  attending  boarding  school  in 

South  Africa,  and  then  traveling  across  the 

Atlantic  to  college  in  Worcester.  At  various 

points  in  their  WPI  careers,  the  two  biomedical 

engineering  majors  took  the  same  courses, 

lived  in  the  same  dorm,  conducted  research 

in  the  department's  labs,  and  did  their  IQPs  in 

Costa  Rica.  Both  developed  close  relationships 

with  professors  George  Pins  and  Kristen  Billiar, 

as  they  worked  toward  their  BS  and  then  MS 

degrees.  They  also  shared  a  lifelong  interest 

in  art.  Today,  although  they  live  on  opposite 

coasts — Manrique  outside  of  Boston  and 

Pai  in  Seattle — they  remain  good  friends. 

In  separate  conversations,  the  two  women 

talk  about  the  life-saving  projects  they're 

doing,  and  how  WPI  helped  launch 

them  into  the  biomedical  field. 


the  Bar 


In  the  cafeteria  at  Codman  &  Shurtleff  Inc., 

Lisette  Manrique  is  animated  as  she  discusses  a  promising 
new  device  to  treat  a  swelling  condition  in  the  brain  called 
hydrocephalus.  Eyes  sparkling,  golden  earrings  swinging,  she 
describes  the  work  that  has  kept  her  engineering  team  busy 
for  months,  that  will  send  her  to  India  to  check  out  a  manu- 
facturing facility,  and  that — if  all  goes  right — will  lead  to  a 
new  product  next  year.  Wearing  a  stylish  black  dress,  cropped 
sweater,  and  sleek  black  boots,  Manrique  looks  like  the  last 
person  on  the  planet  who  would  ever  sport  a  pocket  protector. 
And  yet  the  26-year-old  with  a  BS  ('03)  and  MS  ('05)  in 
biomedical  engineering  is  a  rising  star.  She  leads  an  interdis- 
ciplinary team  of  more  than  a  dozen  people  at  her  Ravnham, 
Mass.,  company,  a  division  of  Johnson  &  Johnson.  She  is 
involved  with  every  step  of  the  product  development  process, 
concept  to  launch.  She  is  as  comfortable  charting  the  path- 
ways of  the  brain  as  the  personality  types  that  comprise  her 
group.  Most  of  all,  she  is  brimming  with  enthusiasm. 

"It  has  been  my  experience  that  if  you  have  the  desire 
and  drive  to  achieve  something,  then  nothing  should  be  able 
to  keep  you  from  attempting  it,"  she  says  in  her  profile  on 
engineeryourlife.org,  a  website  created  by  WGBH  and  tar- 
geted at  high  school  girls.  For  as  long  as  she  can  remember, 
Manrique  has  received  complete  support  from  her  (amity, 
her  high  school  teachers  in  Tewksbury,  Mass.,  her  professors 
at  WPI,  and  the  employers  who  have  benefited  from  her  can- 
do  attitude.  She  recalls  the  scroll  saw  she  received  at  age  13 
from  her  lather,  who  works  in  high  tech;  the  many  visits  to 
ACCION,  a  microfinance  nonprofit  where  her  mother  is  vice 
president  of  human  resources;  the  "Human  Bodv  Program" 
she  attended  as  a  15-year-old,  in  which  she  studied  with 
Boston  University  medical  students  and  visited  an  emergency 
room  and  a  morgue;  and  the  high  school  job  at  a  phvsical 


"If  you  have  the  desire  and  drive  to  achieve 
something,  then  nothing  should  be  able  to 
keep  you  from  attempting  it." 


— Lisette  Manrique  '03 


Transformations    \    Spring   2008     2  7 


Shruti  Pai  imagines  a  career  in  biomechanics,  possibly  in  Africa. 
And  she  hopes  she  will  be  able  to  inspire  other  young  women  to 
discover  options  they  never  knew  they  had. 


therapv  office.  "I  realized  that  I  didn't  necessarily  want  to 
be  touching  people  all  day."  she  says,  "but  I  got  so  excited 
about  the  tools. 

"No  one  ever  told  me.  'You  should  go  into  something 
woman-friendly.  ~"  she  notes.  And  so  Manrique  happily 
followed  her  love  for  tools  into  biomedical  engineering, 
where  she  was  able  to  combine  her  passion  for  tinkering  with 
her  desire  to  do  something  that  would  help  people.  At  WTI. 
she  worked  with  professors  Allen  Hoffman  and  Hollv  Auk 
in  the  Assistive  Technology  Resource  Center,  eventually 
doing  her  MQP  and  graduate  thesis  in  conjunction  with 
the  Massachusetts  Hospital  School,  in  Canton,  Mass.  Her 
first  effort  centered  on  devising  a  saddle  for  voungsters  with 
disabilities  to  use  while  engaging  in  physical  therapy  on  horse- 
back. Manrique  rattles  off  the  challenges  she  encountered — 
individuals  of  varied  ages  and  sizes  and  muscle  tone — and  the 
ultimate  reward  of  aiding  an  activity  that  could  improve  the 
children's  phvsical  condition  and  sense  of  well-being.  For  her 
master's  thesis  project,  Manrique  helped  develop  an  obstacle- 
sensing  svstem  for  a  child's  wheelchair  that  could  produce 
auditorv  feedback,  signaling  the  child  to  change  direction. 

A  good  word  from  Professor  Pins  helped  Manrique  land 
her  first  job,  at  a  medical  device  companv  in  Andover,  Mass., 
where  she  focused  on  spine  discography  "1  learned  a  tremen- 
dous amount  there."  she  says.  "I  had  to  do  tests,  write  reports, 
follow  protocol.  I  got  to  dabble  in  everything."  Before  long, 
she  brought  this  passion  for  crafting  solutions  to  a  Johnson  & 
Johnson  company  concerned  with  the  spine,  and  then  to  her 
present  position  in  a  companv  specializing  in  medical  devices 
for  neurosurgery. 

"The  best  part  of  being  an  engineer  is  being  able  to 
solve  problems  with  a  hands-on  approach."  Manrique  savs. 
(On  the  walls  of  her  cubicle,  a  large  chart  of  the  human 
brain  hangs  across  from  a  cartoon  featuring  Snoopv  clasping 
Charlie  Brown  and  the  words  HUG  IT  OUT!)  Whether  she 
is  guiding  her  coworkers  or  designing  a  sophisticated  piece 
of  machinery,  Manrique  keeps  her  touch  grounded  as  much 
in  humanitv  as  in  skill. 

On  a  January  evening,  Shruti  Pai  04.  MS '05.  has  just 
walked  in  the  door — not  from  her  challenging  work  studying 
diabetes  and  foot  injuries,  but  from  a  session  on  an  indoor 
climbing  wall.  "I  do  rock  climb  outdoors,  where  its  most 
fun,"  she  says  over  the  phone.  "I  love  being  in  Seattle.  We've 
got  the  beach,  the  mountains.  I'm  a  fishing  woman.  I  go 


backpacking  and  snowshoeing.  And  I  love  the  city  side  of 
things.  There  s  a  lot  of  life  here." 

Before  long,  it  becomes  clear  that  there's  a  lot  of  life 
wherever  Shruti  Pai  is.  A  doctoral  candidate  in  biomechanics 
at  the  University  of  Washington,  Pai  is  happiest  when  she  is 
exploring,  both  intellectuallv  and  geographically.  She  can 
claim  three  continents  as  home:  Asia,  since  she  is  a  citizen  or 
India:  Africa,  where  she  grew  up:  and  North  America,  where 
she  has  lived  since  entering  WTI  in  2000.  "When  I  was 
younger,"  she  admits,  "I  always  felt  like  an  outsider.  Now  I 
feel  so  at  home  everywhere. 

Pais  professional  efforts  are  geared  toward  helping  others 
feel  more  comfortable  in  their  worlds.  At  Seatdes  Center  of 
Excellence  for  Limb  Loss  Prevention  and  Prosthetic  Engineer- 
ing— within  the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs — she 
investigates  the  connections  between  diabetes  and  foot  prob- 
lems. She  spends  a  lot  of  time  sampling  tissue  from  the  feet  of 
cadavers,  trving  to  "understand  the  difference  between  diabetic 
and  normal  tissue.    Such  knowledge  could  lead  to  better 
insoles  to  relieve  pressure,  and  therefore  to  fewer  unhealed 
ulcers  and  amputations  among  patients  with  diabetes. 

"I  love  brainstorming.    Pai  says.  Speaking  from  Seattle, 
she  traces  her  excitement  back  to  WTI:  "My  MQP  reallv 
spurred  me  on."  For  that  research — which  she  has  published 
and  presented  at  a  professional  conference — she  investigated 
utilizing  metal  plates  rather  than  wires  to  stabilize  the  sternum 
in  open  heart  surgerv  patients.  Pai  measured  the  forces  on  dif- 
ferent plate  configurations  applied  to  synthetic  human  bone. 
"I  reallv  liked  being  given  a  problem,  testing,  doing  the  data," 
she  explains.  She  also  feels  luck)-  to  have  worked  with  Billiar 
and  Pins  as  both  an  undergraduate  and  graduate  student. 

Had  it  not  been  for  a  teacher  in  her  high  school  in 
South  Africa,  however,  Pai  might  not  have  found  her  niche 
so  readilv.  As  a  teenager,  she  was  most  interested  in  biology 
phvsics,  and  art.  "I  had  no  idea  until  the  very  end  how  I 
was  going  to  tie  this  all  together,"  she  says.  "But  a  teacher 
encouraged  me  to  take  an  aptitude  test.    When  it  pointed 
to  biomedical  engineering,  Pai  was  intrigued.  Up  until  then, 
she  admits  she  thought  that  an  engineer  "sounds  vague  and 
so  masculine. 

Now.  several  vears  awav  from  completing  her  PhD, 
Pai  imagines  a  career  in  biomechanics,  possibly  in  Africa. 
She  plans  to  keep  traveling  and  seeking  adventures.  And 
she  hopes  she  will  be  able  to  inspire  other  young  women 
to  discover  options  they  never  knew  they  had.  D 


28      Tran s format ions    \    Spring  2008 


^ 


\ 


\ 


A 


\ 


c 


»  i 


e  Face  o 


< 


By  Joanne  Silver 


"We  create  and  design  the  experience — 
how  it  feels,  how  it  smells,  how  you 
pick  it  up,  the  benefits.  We  call 
ourselves  storytellers/' 


At  her  office  in  Estee  Lauder's  Manhattan  headquarters, 
Lise  (Wivestad)  Jorgensen  '87  is  talking  about  paint.  Not  just 
any  paint — automotive  paint.  A  day  before  jetting  off  to  Athens 
for  a  strategy  meeting  of  worldwide  markets,  Jorgensen,  vice 
president  of  the  company's  global  product  development,  is  illus- 
trating how  she  taps  into  a  variety  of  fields  for  product  ideas. 

To  be  sure,  no  woman  would  want  to  be  slathered  in  a 
coat  of  blue  enamel.  But  Jorgensen  explains,  "Look  at  how 
paint  shines  on  the  surface  of  a  car,  how  it  accentuates  curves 
and  features.  Optics,  pigmentation,  and  reflective  materials 
play  a  significant  role  in  makeup,  too.  With  paint,  you  want 
consistency'  of  color.  I,  too,  need  consistency  of  color." 

This  sort  of  outside-the-box  (or  can,  in  the  case  of  paint) 
thinking  has  propelled  the  WPI  graduate  from  a  BS  in  chem- 
ical engineering  to  a  strategic  position  with  one  of  the  most 
respected  names  in  cosmetics,  skin  care,  and  fragrances. 
Speaking  on  the  phone  from  New  York,  Jorgensen  gives  a 
share  of  the  credit  to  her  alma  mater.  "Where  else  can  you 
get  the  understanding  and  learning  and  see  the  applications? 
Where  else  do  you  get  the  privilege  of  seeing  the  link  to  the 
practical  world?"  she  asks.  "Why  am  I  successful?  I  had  the 
opportunity  to  learn  and  truly  understand  the  fundamentals 
of  science  and  allow  my  creativity  to  applv  it.  I  have  the 
breadth  to  understand  lots  of  areas — not  to  the  depth  of 
experts,  but  I  have  the  capability  of  digging  deeper." 

Jorgensen s  MQP  piovided  an  early — and  emotionally 
charged — sense  of  the  real-world  impact  of  her  studies.  For 
that  project  she  worked  at  UMass  Memorial  Medical  Center, 
designing  consistent  blood  clots  in  order  to  do  dissolution 
studies  of  the  clot-busting  enzyme  TPA.  The  clots  would  be 
injected  into  rabbits  to  cause  strokes,  and  then  physicians 
would  inject  TPA  and  observe  its  effects.  Shortly  after 
Jorgensen  completed  her  MQP,  her  father  suffered  a  heart 
attack,  but  because  TPA  had  not  yet  been  approved,  she 
was  unable  to  persuade  doctors  to  use  it  on  him.  When  her 
mother  had  a  stroke  more  than  a  decade  later,  however, 
TPA  had  become  a  standard  tool,  and  Jorgensen  gratefully 
witnessed  its  positive  effects. 

As  drawn  as  she  is  to  knowledge  and  discovery,  Jorgensen 
is  equally  committed  to  a  strong  sense  or  principles  and  beliefs. 
When  asked  where  she  developed  this  quality,  she  cites  her 
family  first  and  her  college  second.  At  WPI,  she  says,  all  the 
courses  consider  how  a  value  system  applies  to  the  world. 

In  the  cosmetics  industry,  Jorgensen  promotes  trustwor- 
thiness and  honesty.  "We  want  to  deliver  the  goods  in  an 
ethical  way"  she  savs  and  then  elaborates:  "When  we  develop 
any  product,  we  need  to  be  sure  that  not  only  are  they  safe — 
so  that  no  one  will  be  harmed — but  more  importantly,  ensure 
the  products  deliver  on  what  we  say  they  will  do.  There's  a  lot 
of  snake  oil  out  there." 


In  January,  Re-Nutriv  Ultimate  Youth  Creme  became  the 
most  recent  product  to  appear  on  the  market  as  the  result  of 
"the  pipeline  of  innovation,"  Jorgensen  explains,  excited.  She 
offers  a  brief  history  of  the  science  of  genetic  aging,  touching 
upon  groundbreaking  research  done  jointly  with  MIT  and 
Harvard,  as  well  as  the  natural  compound  resveratrol,  caloric 
restriction,  and  other  factors  that  can  bolster  longevity.  "We've 
been  using  resveratrol  for  15  years  as  an  antioxidant,"  she  says 
proudly  of  Estee  Lauder's  scientific  quest  for  youthful  skin. 

In  addition  to  the  science  of  the  product,  Jorgensen  says, 
"We  create  and  design  the  experience — how  it  feels,  how  it 
smells,  how  you  pick  it  up,  the  benefits.  We  call  ourselves  storv- 
tellers.  We  try  to  create  the  desire  and  the  need.  The  storyr  is 
the  emotional  link  to  the  practical  application  of  the  product." 

A  summer  internship  at  Procter  &  Gamble  in  Ohio  before 
her  senior  year  at  WPI  served  as  Jorgensen's  career  Eureka! 
moment,  launching  her  into  a  lifetime  of  brainstorming  for 
consumers.  She  loved  the  impact  on  everyday  life,  the  practi- 
cality of  connecting  science,  technology,  and  research  to  a 
user's  wants,  and  then  seeing  the  result  on  store  shelves. 

Now,  as  a  42-year-old  wife,  mother  of  two,  and  leader  in 
her  field,  Jorgensen  feels  a  kinship  with  Estee  Lauder  customers. 
"I  understand  what  consumers  need  and  do,    she  says.  "I  see 
what's  bumming  them  out.  I  know  what's  going  to  sell.  I'm  a 
consumer  like  everyone  else."  Having  worked  for  Bristol-Mvers 
Squibb  and  Clairol,  in  addition  to  P&G  and  Estee  Lauder, 
Jorgensen  says.  "I  have  worked  on  every  category  from  head 
to  toe."  From  Fixodent  to  Oil  of  Olay,  from  Loving  Care  to 
Herbal  Essences  body  wash,  she  has  introduced  and  improved 
products  across  the  shopping  spectrum. 

Skin  has  a  particular  appeal  for  Jorgensen.  "It's  alive, 
she  says.  "It's  constantly  changing — throughout  life  as  well 
as  throughout  the  day.    She  describes  the  diverse  beautv  rou- 
tines of  women  around  the  world:  Asians  gladlv  spend  great 
amounts  of  money  and  time  to  have  flawless  skin;  Americans 
want  everything  done  in  one  quick  step;  Europeans  value  a 
customized  approach.  In  her  frequent  trips  for  business  she 
sets  aside  a  couple  of  days  to  notice  people's  purchasing  pat- 
terns, how  they  live,  what  kind  of  pollution  surrounds  them, 
whether  they  eat  on  the  go.  And  yet.  when  asked  what  tips 
she  would  recommend,  Jorgensen  is  quick  to  say,  "It's  not  just 
what  product  vou  buy.  Sleep  well.  Eat  well.  Be  well.  A  balanced 
lire,  a  healthy  attitude — your  grandmother  probably  also  said 
this  to  you." 

Women,  in  fact,  figure  prominently  in  Jorgensen's 
approach  to  life.  Her  reaction  to  women  at  WPI  is  simple. 
"We  need  more  of  them."  she  says.  "Women  carry  a  different 
energy  and  skill.  It's  more  collaborative.  The  more  women 
we  can  get  into  the  senior  level  or  an  organization,  the  more 
functional  that  organization  will  become.    D 


Transformations    \    Spring  2008     3  1 


Designed  for 

When  Sarah  Arsenault  was  a  girl  growing  up 

on  her  parents'  apple  orchard  in  central  Massachusetts,  she 
knew  three  things:  she  had  a  fierce  appreciation  for  the 
environment,  she  had  an  affinity  for  math  and  science,  and 
she'd  never  be  a  farmer. 

"It  was  part  of  the  reason  why  I  wanted  to  go  to  college," 
says  the  WPI  chemical  engineering  alumna.  "Both  my  parents 
are  really  hard  workers  and  they  taught  me  the  value  of  hard 
work.  But  I  didn't  want  to  work  the  land." 

Although  she  opted  out  of  the  family  business,  she  says 
that  in  her  own  way  she  is  working  the  land — by  making 
sure  it  has  a  future. 

Arsenault,  a  senior  research  engineer  at  United  Technolo- 
gies Research  Center  (UTRC),  the  central  research  and  devel- 
opment center  of  United  Technologies  Corporation  (UTC)  in 
East  Hartford,  Conn.,  is  an  award-winning  researcher  in  the 
development  of  safe,  effective  hydrogen  storage  systems  for 
automotive  fuel  cells.  In  2006,  she  and  the  Hydrogen  Storage 
team  at  UTC  were  recognized  by  the  Department  of  Energy 
for  the  successful  development  and  demonstration  of  a 
generation  2  Hydrogen  Storage  prototype  based  on  complex 
metal  hydrides. 

From  the  day  she  was  accepted  to  WPI,  Arsenault's  goal 
was  to  go  into  environmental  engineering  (she  minored  in  it). 
It  was  therefore  no  surprise  that  she  interned  for  Capaccio 
Environmental  Engineering,  an  environmental  consulting 
firm,  where  she  designed  industrial  wastewater  treatment 
systems.  Although  the  experience  was  invaluable,  it  was  not 
as  satisfying  as  she  had  hoped  it  would  be. 

"I  realized  I  absolutely  hated  cleaning  up  after  someone 
made  a  spill,"  she  says,  referring  to  accidents  such  as  that 
of  the  Exxon  Valdez,  the  tanker  that  ran  aground  in  Prince 
William  Sound  in  Alaska  in  1989,  dumping  10  million  gal- 
lons of  crude  oil  into  the  sea. 

"I  wanted  to  work  on  new  technology  that  would  prevent 
negative  environmental  effects  from  happening,"  says  Arsenault, 
who  was  named  one  of  the  15  New  Faces  of  Engineering  for 
2007  by  Engineers  Week,  a  program  that  highlights  the  work 
of  young  engineers  and  their  impact  on  society. 

Her  viewpoint,  she  says,  is  that  we,  as  humans,  come  up 
with  "brilliant  technology" — from  the  internal  combustion 
engine  to  nuclear  power — but  we  don't  necessarily  recognize 
the  environmental  impact  it  will  have. 

"Look  at  our  problems  with  global  warming,"  she  adds. 
"We  have  developed  all  of  these  breakthrough  technologies  in 
the  past  200  years  without  awareness  of  their  global  cost.  If 
we  had  understood  those  technologies  better,  we  would  have 
found  a  way  around  the  environmental  consequences.  That's 


the  essence  of  my  motivation.  I  wanted  to  do  research  that 
would  have  an  impact  upfront  by  designing  environmentally 
friendly  technologies.  This  was  where  graduate  school  made 
sense  as  an  obvious  route  to  the  additional  skills  I  needed  to 
make  an  impact." 

Arsenault  received  her  PhD  from  Tulane  University  in 
2003,  where  she  specialized  in  heterogeneous  catalysis.  It  was 
the  study  of  how  catalysts  accelerate  chemical  reaction  rates 
that  eventually  led  her  into  the  fuel  cell  field. 

UTRC's  research  in  hydrogen  storage  is  funded  through 
a  Department  of  Energy  contract,  part  of  President  Bush's 
Hydrogen  Fuel  Initiative.  Although  it's  still  in  development, 
Arsenault  says  the  project  has  made  great  strides  toward  turn- 
ing the  technology  into  a  commercial  reality  by  developing 
initial  system  prototypes.  The  impact  on  the  environment  is 
enormous,  she  says. 

Hydrogen  storage  is  absolutely  fundamental  to  fuel  cell 
technology.  There  are  different  ways  to  store  hydrogen:  as  a 
high-pressure  gas,  as  a  cryo-liquid,  or  in  a  solid  form — in  a 


3  2     Trans  format  io  n  s    |   Spring  2  008 


By  Kate  Evans-Correia 


and  fuel  cell  design,  Sarah  Arsenault    98  is  on  a  mission  to  develop 
the  next  generation  of  environmentally  friendly  technologies. 


solid-state  hydrogen  storage  material,  such  as  a  hydride  or  in 
a  sorbent  material.  Arsenault's  team  developed  a  method  of 
solid  storage  that  consists  of  a  hydride  that  absorbs  hydrogen. 
When  heated,  using  the  latent  heat  from  the  vehicle's  fuel 
cell,  the  hydride  desorbs  hydrogen,  allowing  it  to  be  used  to 
power  the  fuel  cell. 

Although  many  experts  predict  the  commercial  use  of 
fuel  cell  technology  ror  automotive  applications  is  another  10 
years  away,  Arsenault  insists,  "it's  a  critical  application  for  the 
future  of  energy  production." 

Another  initiative  she  believes  is  as  vital  to  the  future  as 
fuel  cell  technology  is  the  advancement  of  women  in  science 
and  engineering.  Arsenault,  a  member  (and  past  officer)  of 
her  local  chapter  of  the  American  Institute  of  Chemical 
Engineers,  has  been  instrumental  in  promoting  the  chemical 
engineering  field  to  local  colleges  and  hosting  middle-  and 
high  school  girls  visiting  UTRC.        ..  ~~— -— -- 

Arsenault  herself  had  a  middle  school  math  teacher  who 
was  extremely  influential  in  developing  her  interest  in  math 


and  science,  encouraging  her  to  take  on  special  projects. 
In  high  school,  she  was  one  of  only  three  girls  in  Advanced 
Placement  courses  and  the  only  one  interested  in  math  and 
science.  She  admits  to  being  an  oddity.  But  she  found  her 
middle  ground  at  WPI,  where  she  became  one  of  a  number 
of  women  in  the  chemical  engineering  program,  and  she 
never  looked  back. 

Although  engineering  is  in  her  blood,  an  MBA  is  in  her 
future.  Arsenault  is  pursuing  a  degree  from  Carnegie  Mellon 
University-  because  she  wants  to  be  able  to  influence  the  busi- 
ness aspects  of  her  research.  "How  much  influence  can  you 
have  in  an  organization  if  you're  in  the  trenches?"  she  asks. 
"You  have  to  be  able  to  provide  some  guidance  on  the  direc- 
tion the  business  needs  to  take." 

Still,  her  passion  for  engineering  is  not  likely  to  wane 
anytime  soon.  "I  think  that  engineering  is  going  to  have  a 
huge  impact  on  the  future — in  energy,  the  environment,  the 
medical  field,"  she  says.  "I  can't  think  of  another  discipline 
that  has  such  an  impact  on  societv.    II 


Transformations    \    Spring  2008     3  3 


AlumniConnections 


In  the  previous  issue  of  Transformations,  Alumni  Association  President 
Bill  Krein  '62  introduced  the  Association's  new  strategic  structure.  He  also  called 
on  alumni  to  roll  up  their  sleeves  and  build  on  the  WPI  legacy  that  helped  launch  them 
in  their  own  careers.  In  this  second  installment,  Krein  explains  why  alumni  are  the 
greatest  untapped  resource  that  WPI  has. 


What  are  the  top  priorities  for  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association? 

The  Alumni  Association  remains  strongly  focused  on  alumni 
engagement,  career  services  (in  conjunction  with  WPI's  Career 
Development  Center),  and  support  of  the  upcoming  capital 
campaign.  The  Board  of  Trustees  recently  adopted  a  resolution 
in  support  of  the  campaign,  and  we  intend  to  take  a  similar 
action.  Another  initiative  of  particular  interest  is  enacting  a 
commitment  to  substantially  increase  scholarship  funding. 

You've  spoken  of  a  new  model  for  alumni 
engagement . . . 

Yes,  we  need  to  engage  all  alumni— whether  it's  through  ad- 
visory boards,  committees,  events,  or  regional  chapters — and 
begin  to  find  ways  to  grow  involvement.  With  new  information- 
sharing  technologies,  we  can  leverage  the  talents  of  alumni 
who  are  busy,  who  have  careers  and  family,  and  who  can't 
travel  to  campus  easily,  but  who  still  want  to  help.  The  vision 
is  for  the  staff  of  the  alumni  office  to  provide  a  central  point 
of  contact.  There's  a  need  and  a  role  for  everyone.  It's  as 
simple  as  that. 

We  also  need  to  take  a  look  at  how  we're  asking  alumni 
to  help.  If  the  only  contact  you  have  is  a  phone  call  asking  for 
money  every  five  years,  understandably,  you  might  become 
a  bit  jaundiced.  But  if  we  ask  you  to  share  your  talents  and 
experience,  then  you'll  want  to  stay  involved.  What  we've 


found  in  the  past  is  that  when  members  of  the  alumni  com- 
munity have  turned  to  each  other  for  advice,  people  are 
perfectly  willing  to  help. 

Beyond  what  alumni  can  offer  to  each  other,  how 
are  they  poised  to  serve  their  alma  mater,  as  WPI 
endeavors  to  expand  its  reputation  nationally? 

Up  to  now,  the  Association  has  been  largely  an  inward-looking 
organization.  With  the  arrival  of  President  Dennis  Berkey 
and  Dexter  Bailey,  vice  president  for  development  and  alumni 
relations,  the  question  became:  What  can  the  Alumni  Associ- 
ation do  to  catch  up  with  and  support  WPI's  great  strides? 

We,  the  collective  alumni  body,  represent  a  tremendous 
resource — not  only  in  financial  capital,  but  in  experience  and 
expertise.  We  are  a  deep  and  broad  source  of  information. 
There  are  exciting  possibilities  for  alumni  to  serve  as  a  sound- 
ing board  to  the  administration.  We  are  in  a  position  to  advise 
and  inform  the  Trustees  and  the  President's  Office,  and  to 
present  the  voice  of  alumni.  While  we  still  want  to  represent 
the  interests  of  alumni,  we  also  want  to  engage  them  to  be  a 
part  of  the  development  and  advancement  of  WPI. 

How  do  you  envision  people  and  technology 
working  together  to  link  alumni  to  the  campus 
community? 

Here's  a  perfect  example:  When  Team  190,  the  WPI-sponsored 
robotics  team,  took  top  honors  in  the  national  FIRST  finals 
in  Palo  Alto,  Calif,  last  year,  it  showed  the  world  what  WPI 
is  all  about.  You  can't  see  that  and  not  be  proud  of  your  alma 
mater.  The  Alumni  Association  hosted  a  reception  where  local 
alumni  could  meet  the  students  on  the  team  and  their  advisors. 
We  now  have  the  means  to  get  the  word  out  to  everyone,  rap- 
idly, on  our  new  alumni  website,  aJumniconnect.wpi.edu,  and 
through  electronic  mailings  that  are  available  to  all  alumni 
who  furnish  an  email  address  to  the  alumni  office.  We've  got 
the  capability  to  host  discussion  groups  on  the  new  Alumni- 
Connect  online  community  and  post  personal  updates  and 
pictures.  The  time  couldn't  be  better  for  all  of  us  to  come 
together  for  the  common  good  of  WPI. 


34     Transformations    \    Spring  2008 


Don't  miss  Reunion  Weekend  June  5-8!  The  Classes  of  1933,  1938,  1943,  1948,  1953,  1958,  1963, 
1968,  1973,  and  1978  are  invited  to  reconnect  with  classmates  and  learn  about  WPI  today  during  this  fun 
weekend.  All  classes  are  invited  to  the  Alumni  Golf  Tournament  on  June  5 — check  your  mail  for  details. 
More  information  at  wpi .edu/+reunion . 


Connie's  Corner 


By  Connie  Horwitz 


When  my  own  college  alumni  magazine  arrives  in  rhe  mail, 
I  make  a  beeline  for  the  class  notes  section.  I  marvel  at  where 
people  are  going,  where  they've  gone,  and  how  they've  made 
the  decisions  that  landed  them  at  their  current  destination. 

For  some,  there  have  been  measured  choices — I  like  to 
think  of  them  as  thoughtful  speed  bumps — with  time  to  think 
and  implement.  For  others,  there  have  been  exit  and  re-entry 
ramps,  planned  and  unplanned.  When  they  return  to  their 
road,  it  may  have  changed  its  terrain — a  new  bridge  here,  an 
intersection  there — offering  new  routes.  For  others,  there  has 
been  nothing  but  high  speed  traffic  lanes  and  rapid  changes. 
And  then  there  are  the  classmates  who  are  working  and  build- 
ing their  lives  without  sharing  a  word  with  their  peers. 

I  find  that  I  have  come  full  circle.  My  first  professional 
position  fresh  out  of  college  was  to  serve  as  an  alumni  place- 
ment officer  at  Northeastern  University.  (Back  then  the  focus 
was  completely  on  placement.)  Over  the  years,  I  have  tacked 
my  way  through  the  newer  fields  of  career  development,  mar- 
keting, and  professional  search  trying  to  balance  the  milestones 
and  setbacks  of  life:  marriage,  another  degree,  family,  volun- 
teerism,  divorce,  regrouping.  Sometimes  it  was  wonderful  and 
sometimes  it  was  not.  Still,  I  always  knew  who  I  was.  Career 
development  was,  as  I  learned,  part  of  my  life's  development. 

I'd  be  naive  to  think  that  all  college  graduates  have  found 
their  way  to  career  development  professionals  at  some  point 
to  help  them  map  out  their  journey.  Not  everyone  needs  to 


do  that.  But  I  had  the  recent  opportunity  to  attend  an 
adult-only  life  review  workshop  that  left  each  participant 
wondering  why  all  adults  don't  go  through  a  tune-up  like 
that  now  and  then.  It's  good  to  have  other  people  hear  your 
own  inner  voice  when  you  may  have  grown  deaf  to  it. 

Here  at  WPI,  there's  a  wealth  of  opportunities  for  alumni 
and  students.  In  my  new  role,  I  embrace  numerous  but  excit- 
ing challenges.  I  hope  to  provide  career  assistance  to  alumni 
in  need — by  phone,  email,  or  The  Bridge,  or  in  person  at 
a  regional  meeting.  I  hope  to  connect  students  with  alumni 
in  their  field.  I  suspect  alumni  will  be  amazed  at  what  these 
young  people  have  to  offer — as  the  bright  stars  of  their  gen- 
eration. This  connection,  this  networking,  is  how  positions 
are  filled  in  most  organizations.  And  for  alumni  who  want  to 
revitalize  their  rusty  skills  in  an  intense  but  quick  program  to 
get  back  in  the  game,  I  will  collaborate  with  my  colleagues 
on  campus  to  provide  a  program  to  do  just  that. 

As  I  begin  my  new  challenges,  I  challenge  you  as  well — 
I  invite  you  to  get  in  touch  and  share  your  career  experiences. 
Please  take  a  few  minutes  and  share  what  led  you  from  one 
role  to  the  next,  even  if  you  are  just  starting  out.  Write  to 
cdcalumni@wpi.edu  at  any  time. 

As  we  celebrate  women  at  WPI  in  this  Transformations 
issue,  I  hope  that  you  will  think  about  the  turns  your  career 
has  taken.  Whether  you're  traveling  the  high  road  or  the  low, 
I  sincerely  hope  you're  savoring  the  ride. 


Career  Development  Center.  Contact  her  at  cdcalumni@wpi.edu. 


Transformations    \    Spring  2008     3  5 


Class  Notes 


Staying  Connected  with  Old  Friends 

Material  for  Class  Notes  comes  from  newspaper  and  magazine  clippings,  press  releases, 
and  information  supplied  by  alumni.  Due  to  production  schedules,  some  notes  may  be  out 
of  date  at  publication,  but  may  be  updated  in  future  issues.  Please  allow  up  to  6  months  for 
your  news  to  appear  in  print.  Send  your  Class  Note  to  alumni-editor@wpi.edu.  You  may 
fax  it  to  508-831-5820,  or  mail  it  to  Alumni  Editor,  Transformations,  WPI,  100  Institute 
Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 


Roman  "Joe" 
Kozoil  '34  is  an 

enthusiastic  golfer 
and  an  avid  sports 
fan.  He  lives  in 
Portland,  Ore.,  with 
his  nephews.  His 
wite.  the  former 
Claire  Bullis,  died 
in  2006.  A  World 
War  II  veteran,  his 
decorations  and  citations  include  the 
European-African-Middle  Eastern  Theatre 
Campaign  Ribbon  with  four  battle  stars, 
American  Theatre  Ribbon,  and  Victory 
Medal  World  War  II.  Joe  was  discharged  at 
Fort  Dix,  N.J.,  in  1946.  He  is  most  proud 
of  his  certificates  of  recognition  from 
General  Wesley  Clark  of  the  U.S.  Armed 
Forces  and  President  Harry  Truman. 


1950s 


Moved  bv  the  amount  of  obituaries  in  the 
Summer  2007  Transformations,  Don  Lewis 
'51  is  looking  to  get  in  touch  with  his  class- 
mates. (See  his  letter,  page  3.)  Contact  him 
at  dlew6l6@yahoo.com  or  by  mail  at  Bethel 
Health  Care.  Bethel,  CT  06801. 

Ed  Shivell  '54  writes,  "Recently  King 
Webster  '54  and  I,  with  our  wives,  attended 
the  Imagine  and  Achieve  presentation  with 
President  Berkey  here  in  New  Hampshire. 
I  recommend  you  make  an  effort  to  attend 
one  of  these  gatherings  when  possible.' 

Howard  Whittle  '54  reminds  classmates 
that  you  can  find  news  and  photos  online  at 
alum.wpi.edu/+1954. 

Richard  Campbell  '58  writes,  "Two  weeks 
into  my  23rd  year  of  teaching  acoustics  and 
audio  engineering  in  the  ECE  department, 


I  suffered  a  spinal  infection  resulting  in  life 
in  a  wheelchair.  I  taught  via  Internet  in 
2005,  an  exhausting  experience." 

Solon  Economou  '58,  a  retired  Army  offi- 
cer and  engineer,  continues  as  a  columnist 
for  the  Cape  Cod  Times.  His  columns,  which 
appear  on  alternate  Thursdays,  often  refer  to 
his  WPI  roots  and  to  the  scientific  and  tech- 
nological advancements  of  WPI  professors. 
He  lives  in  South  Dennis,  Mass. 

Bill  Rabinovitch  '58  had  a  solo  show  of  his 
paintings  in  Miami  recently.  He's  also  been 
exploring  electronic  compositions,  which 
he  plans  to  incorporate  in  his  film  about 
Jackson  Pollock  (Pollocksquared.com). 

Jim  Alfieri  '59  and  his  wife  live  in  Santa 
Rosa,  Calif,  but  were  able  to  join  classmates 
for  the  Homecoming  luncheon  and  football 
game  last  fall.  They  were  traveling  back  east 
to  visit  family. 

Bob  Allen  '59  retired  to  Virginia  Beach, 
but  returns  to  Sterling,  Mass.,  periodically, 
where  he  and  his  wife  have  a  family  home. 
Bob  is  a  Master  Gardener  and  keeps  busy 
doing  this  and  some  volunteer  work. 

Dave  Bragg  '59  is  northern  New  England 
regional  manager  for  Milone  &  MacBroom. 
He  and  his  wife  also  run  a  bed  &  breakfast 
in  Newcastle,  Maine. 

Joe  Bronzino  '59  was  featured  on  a 
Connecticut  Public  Television  series  called 
"work,  learn,  live."  The  segment  featured 
area  business  leaders  and  industry  experts. 
Bronzino  emphasized  the  need  for  a  skilled 
workforce  for  the  state's  medical  device 
manufacturing  industry. 

After  a  trip  to  Italy  in  September,  Nancy 
and  Fred  Costello  '59  headed  for  Bonita 
Springs,  Fla.  Fred  and  classmate  Lee 
Courtemanche  joined  Win  Wassenar  at 

the  Venice  Country  Club  for  some  golf  last 
spring.  Lee  is  now  living  in  Marietta,  Ga., 
and  working  part  time  for  Ahlstrom  Pumps. 


.  c 


©WPI 


ss 


ClaSS  NCItS     9BSO 


Ir.eods    r^.<.j: 


•.   »;:-.       :««e 


JOB- 


3&  -     jmZr,9~W 


Wayne  Gass  '59  retired  as  dean  of  adminis- 
tration and  business  manager  at  Mount 
Holyoke  College.  He  remains  in  South 
Hadley,  spending  much  of  the  summer  in 
Orleans  on  Cape  Cod. 

Brad  Harper  '59  has  retired  but  continues 
to  work  part  time,  heading  to  zero  time,  he 
savs.  He  served  as  co-chair  of  his  50th 
reunion  at  Northbridge  (Mass.)  High 
School,  where  Win  Wassenar  was  a  class- 
mate. 

Richard  Kingsley  '59  lost  his  wife,  Rita,  in 
July  2006.  "We  married  the  week  after  I 
graduated  from  WPI,  raised  five  children, 
and  lived  in  eight  cities  from  coast  to  coast. 

I  retired  for  the  third  and  final  time  in 
2005.  I'm  now  involved  in  volunteering  at 
the  church  (overseeing  maintenance  work), 
driving  meals-on-wheels,  and  working  out 
at  the  local  YMCA.  My  current  job  descrip- 
tion also  includes  traveling  and  enjoying  our 

I I  grandchildren  (ages  5  to  20). 
Ed  Saulnier  '59  of  Colchester,  Vt.,  repre- 
sented WPI  President  Dennis  Berkey  at  the 
inauguration  of  the  new  president  of  St. 
Michael's  College  last  year.  He  and  his  wife, 
Peni,  also  took  a  27-state  trip  in  their 
camper  last  summer,  visiting  children  and 
grandchildren. 

Win  Wassenar  '59  and  his  wife,  Vanessa, 
went  to  the  Galapagos  Islands  this  summer 
with  three  grandchildren.  He  is  retired  from 
Williams  College  and  living  in  Williams- 
town,  Mass.,  doing  a  little  consulting  and 
golfing,  and  spending  time  in  Venice,  Fla., 
in  the  winter.  Win  reminds  us  to  send  news 
items  to  wwassena@williams.edu. 


36     Transformations    \    Spring  2008 


1960s 

Richard  Brewster  '60  photographed  before- 
and-after  records  of  cleft  palate  surgery  at 
Royal  Victoria  Hospital  in  Banjul,  Gambia. 
His  wife,  Susan,  tended  to  patients  in  the 
recover}'  room,  which  lacks  running  water 
and  is  plagued  by  mosquitoes.  He  sends  out 
a  call  for  volunteers  to  help  with  the  hospi- 
tal's water  supply  system.  Check  out  mercv- 
ships.org  for  information  on  the  floating 
hospital  program. 

Since  his  retirement  in  June  as  university 
vice  president,  Steve  Hebert  '66  has  eluded 
all  efforts  to  honor  his  decades  of  service. 
Joe  Ferrantino  '67  (left  in  photo)  and  Bill 

Krein  '62 
presented 
Hebert  with 
a  token  of 
the  .Alumni 
-Associations 
gratitude — a 
handsome 
golf  bag  cus- 
tomized 
with  the 
WP1  logo. 
Krein 
reports, 
"Steve  was 
hugely 

impressed  and  asked  that  we  convey  his 
appreciation  to  all  of  his  WTI  alumni 
friends." 


Joe  Ferrantino  '67.  right,  met  up  with  Tim 
Golden  '76  and  Charlie  Wojewoda  '67  in 

San  Gimignano,  Italy,  in  September  200". 
Joe  writes.  "Tim  and  his  wire  were  there  cel- 
ebrating Charlies  40th  wedding  anniversary. 
and  Donna  and  I  had  come  to  celebrate 
ours.  We  all  met  by  accident  in  the  lobby 
of  a  small  hotel.  If  wed  come  10  minutes 
earlier  or  later,  we  would  not  have  known 
the  others  were  there!  Charlie  and  I  and  our 
wives  were  together  at  WTI  in  June  for  the 
40th  Reunion.  We  didn't  realize  we  both 
had  plans  to  visit  Italy,  let  alone  the  same 
small  village.  What  a  small  world! 

Ken  Battle  '68  writes.  ".After  three  reason- 
ably successful  years  running  mv  own  con- 


sulting business,  I  have  returned  to  the 
world  of  employment,  with  Fluor  in  New- 
Jersey.  My  business  is  still  open  for  short- 
term  projects  and  follow-up  with  existing 
clients.  I  have  no  plans  to  retire  as  I  enjov 
engineering  too  much,  along  with  the  bene- 
fits it  brings."  Ken's  business  website. 
wwvv.kenbattleservices.com,  has  photos  of 
his  latest  addition:  an  '84  Ferrari  400i,  as 
well  as  the  other  sports  and  GT  cars  in  his 
collection. 

Peter  Holcombe  '68  was  named 
Woodturner  of  the  Month  at  The 
Woodturning  School  in  Damariscotta, 
Maine.  After  30  years  as  a  self-employed 
carpenter,  he  now  hopes  to  sell  projects  in 
galleries  and  online. 


1970s 


U.S.  Rep.  Todd  Akin  '70  (R-MO)  was 
honored  with  the  200"  Distinguished 
Christian  Statesman  Award  by  the  Dr.  D. 
James  Kennedy  Center  for  Christian 
Statesmanship. 

Domenic  Forcella  '70  presented  a  photog- 
raphy exhibit  at  the  grand  opening  of 
the  Heritage  House  cultural  center  in 
Hazlehurst,  Miss.  The  showing  featured  his 
black-and-white  portraits  of  the  state  s  blues 
legends,  which  will  become  part  of  the  cen- 
ter's permanent  collection.  His  work  has 
also  appeared  on  the  CDs  of  local  artists,  in 
local  and  national  blues  publications,  and 
on  www.megablues.com. 

Randy  Sablich  '70  was  promoted  to  vice 
president  of  the  Metrigraphics  Precision 
Components  Division  of  Dynamics 
Research  Corp. 

David  Asquith  '71  writes.  ".After  34  \  ears 
in  retail  management,  I  am  happilv  retired 
in  Central  Florida  with  my  wife.  Linda." 

Peter  Markunas  '71  joined  Woods  Hole 
Group  as  a  coastal  engineer. 

Paul  Lacouture  '72  was  appointed  to  the 
board  of  directors  of  XeuStar  Inc.  He  is  the 
retired  executive  vice  president  ot  engineer- 
ing and  technology  for  Verizon  Telecom. 

Steve  Wilkinson  '72  is  a  senior  industrial 

engineer  at  Amgen  in  West  Greenwich.  R.I.. 
where  he  is  leading  the  introduction  of  lean 
manufacturing. 

Peter  McDermott  '73  was  appointed  co- 
chair  of  the  Massachusetts  Bar  Association's 
Business  Law  Section.  He  continues  to  prac- 
tice in  the  Boston  office  of  Banner  .ic 
Witcoff. 


Tom  Descoteaux  '76  was  named  Utility 
Contractor  of  the  Year  by  the  Utility 
Contractors  Association  of  New  England. 
He  is  vice  president  of  R.  H.  White 
Construction. 

Ben  Jacobs  '76  serves  as  deputy  director  for 
grant  programs  and  community  outreach 
for  the  Council  for  Arts  and  Humanities  for 
Staten  Island,  N.Y.  He  continues  to  perform 
as  a  storyteller. 

Neal  Wright  '76  joined 
Hayes.  Seay.  Mattern  & 
Mattern  Inc.  in  Roanoke, 
Va.,  as  a  vice  president 
and  market  director  for 
military  programs. 

Al  Barry  '77  helped  launch  a  new  business, 
with  offices  and  a  factory  in  China.  Wuxi 
REM  Ltd.  does  mechanical  design,  machin- 
ing, and  forming  for  contract  customers.  Al 
and  Laurie  split  their  time  between  homes 
in  Atlanta  and  West  Falmouth,  Mass.  Son 
Matthew  is  teaching  middle  school  in 
Adanta.  and  daughter  Ashley  just  graduated 
from  Cornell. 

Dominico  Grasso  '77  was  interviewed  bv 
the  Burlington  Free  Press  on  his  goals  for  the 
College  of  Engineering  and  Mathematics  at 
the  University  of  Vermont,  where  he  has 
served  as  dean  since  2005. 

^Hgk     I  Jeff  Harrington  '77 

^k  I  recently  expanded 

P   .   ^^H   I  Harrington  Group  Inc. 

I  with  the  opening  of  a 

'  ^^H  new  office  in  Charlotte, 

^^^  ^^jl    I  N.C.  His  recent  publica- 

■  1   A    I  tions  include  articles  in 
WTRCSheet  znA  the  ATTN  Journal. 

Joseph  Williams  '77  retired  from  Ford 
Motor  Co.  as  program  manager  for  the  Ford 
Fusion.  He  was  part  of  manv  programs, 
from  the  Windstar  to  the  Lincoln  Town  Car 
to  the  Mustang.  "I  will  miss  Ford  Motor 
Co.,  and  all  the  people  there,  including  sev- 
eral WTI  alumni.  I  plan  on  spending  more 
time  with  my  children  and  restoring  mv 
classic  Mustangs." 


Bob  Chapell  '78  was 

promoted  to  senior 
project  manager  in  the 
Dedham.  Mass.,  office 
of  Woodard  &  Curran. 


Paul  Lefebvre  '78  is  technical  director  at 
the  Naval  L'ndersea  Warfare  Center 
Division  Newport.  He  lives  in  Tiverton.  R.I. 


Trans Jormat ions    \    Spring  2008     3  7 


Planned  Giving  at  WPI       |       888-974-4438      |      planned-givina@wpi.edu 


Your  Legacy  Is  Your  Life's  Work 


WPI  can  show  you  how  to  make  it  happen.  A  generous  40th 
reunion  gift  can  give  YOU  an  income  for  life— easily  accomplished 


If  you  are  interested  in  a  Deferred  Charitable  Gift 
Annuity  from  WPI  that  pays  you  11.6%*  return 
after  the  deferred  period  for  the  rest  of  your  life, 
just  call  Judi  Cantor  toll  free  at  888-974-4438 
or  e-mail  planned-giving@wpi.edu. 


*Based  on  one  person,  age  61,  who  defers  the  first  payrr 
for  10  years.  Charitable  gift  annuities  pay  a  life  income 
based  on  your  age.  You  earn  a  tax  deduction  and  incon 
for  life,  and  you  support  WPI  with  a  generous  gift.  Ease 
of  giving  is  our  service  to  you— you  can  use  appreciatec 
stock  to  create  this  gift. 


ALDEN 

SOCIETY 


John  Wallace  '78  invites  classmates  to 
check  out  his  website  at  homepage.mac.com 
/wallacejj/Menu2.html. 

Wesley  Wheeler  '78  joined  Pantheon  Inc. 
in  Toronto,  as  executive  director.  He  previ- 
ously held  top  management  positions  at 
Valeant  Pharmaceuticals  International, 
DSM  Pharmaceuticals  Inc.,  and  GlaxoSmith- 
Kline.  He  is  the  son  of  Wes  Wheeler  '54. 

Joseph  Kolis  '79  is  executive  director  of  the 
Clemson  University  Research  Foundation 
Board. 

Jason  Providakes  '79 

(MSEE  '80)  was  appoint- 
ed director,  senior  vice 
president,  and  general 
manager  of  the  Center 
for  Enterprise  Moderni- 
zation (CEM),  the  feder- 
ally funded  research  and  development  center 
(FFRDC)  that  the  company  operates  for  the 
Internal  Revenue  Service. 


1980s 


James  Idelson  '80  is  vice  president  of 
marketing  for  Ezenia!  Inc. 

Mark  O'Neil  '80  is  CEO  of  DealerTrack 
Inc.,  a  company  that  provides  automatic 
credit  applications  to  auto  dealerships. 

Martin  Rowe  '80  writes,  "I've  recorded  and 
released  my  fifth  song  about  electrical  engi- 
neering, 'Electrical  Heroes.'  Now  all  those 
great  scientists  and  inventors  who  made  sig- 
nificant discoveries  in  electricity — from 
Franklin  to  Hertz — are  no  longer  'unsung.'" 
See  tmworld.com/article/CA6504260.html. 

Paula  (Green)  Curry 
'82  and  the  attorneys  of 
her  previous  firm,  Kaitz 
+  Associates,  joined 
Sherin  and  Lodgen  LLP 
of  Boston. 

David  Kelly  '82  was  appointed  CEO  of 
Bluefin  Robotics,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary 
of  Battelle  Memorial  Institute. 

Linda  (Mitchell)  Manchester  '82  is 

founder  of  Essential  Solutions  LLC. 

Steve  Rohrbacher  '82  founded  Millennium 
Plating  Company  (magplate.com)  in  2004. 
He  writes,  "Our  niche  is  the  plating  of  mag- 
nesium alloys  for  the  aerospace  and  com- 
mercial markets.  Our  customers  range  from 
Lockheed  Martin  to  Harley-Davidson. 
Together  with  my  wife,  Ruth,  and  daughter, 
Melissa,  we  continue  to  prosper  and  grow." 

Wally  Towner  '83  writes,  "I'm  working  on 
two  new  ventures:  Dynamic  Lease,  a  highly 


th 


n  me 

Public  Eye 


Richard  Whitcomb  '43  was  inducted  into  the  Paul  E. 

in  the  Wright 
Brothers  National  Memorial  in  North  Carolina.  "Dick 
Whitcomb's  intellectual  fingerprints  are  on  virtually 
every  commercial  aircraft  flying  today,"  said  a 
Smithsonian  aviation  historian  ...  Len  Polizzotto  '70  was  profiled  in  Mass  High  Tech 
recently.  He  is  senior  executive  for  strategic  business  development  at  The  Charles  Stark 
Draper  Laboratory  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  ...  the  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette  ran  a 
historical  piece  on  Cutler  Associates  and  its  first  hire:  Fred  Mulligan  '71,  now  company 
president  ...  Ron  Zarrella  '71  made  Rochester  Business  Journal's  2007  Top  50  list 
...  Alden  Bianchi  '74  was  named  a  Massachusetts  Super  Lawyer  in  Boston  Magazine's 
annual  list  of  the  Commonwealth's  Top  100  Lawyers  ...  Reed  Mosher  '77  earned  the 

e  Fleury  medal  for  his  accomplishments  at  the  U.S.  Army  Research 
and  Development  Center,  where  he  serves  as  technical  director  for  Survivability  and 
Protective  Structures  and  lead  technical  director  for  Military  Engineering  ...  biathlon  devotee 
John  Osowski  '77  was  interviewed  and  photographed  for  an  article  in  the  Rochester 

scrat  &  Chronicle.  He  competed  in  the  Empire  State  Winter  Games  this  year  ... 
Eric  Hahn  '80  was  featured  in  the  IEEE  journal  Spectrum,  in  an  article  called  "The 
Codemaker"  ...  NASA's  Southwest  Research  Institute  recently  featured  Jennifer  Crock  '95  on 
its  IBEX  (Interstellar  Boundary  Explorer)  website.  She  is  program  manager  for  ATK,  the 
company  responsible  for  the  IBEX  spacecraft's  propulsion  motor  ...  Jeremy  Hitchcock  '04  and 
Tom  Daly  '04's  company,  DynDNS,  was  named  a  "Best  Small  Company  to  Work  For"  by 
Business  NH  Magazine.  The  company  also  received  the  Innovation  Rocks! 
Award  from  the  Business  Resource  Center  at  the  state's  Division  of  Economic  Development 
and  made  the  Inc.  5  list  of  "Top  Companies  in  Telecommunications"  ...  Todd  Prokop 

'07  was  honored  with  the  North  American  Interfraternity  Conference  Award 
o#  Distinction.  The  TKE  alumnus  is  working  toward  a  master's  in  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 


differentiated  equipment  leasing  company, 
and  TD  Corsair  &  Co.,  my  financial  plan- 
ning practice.  Carolyn  has  her  own  property 
insurance  agency.  Don't  know  about  you, 
but  this  three  kids  in  college  thing  is  getting 
old  fast." 

Michael  Bonder  '84  is  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  DTC  Communications, 
a  video  and  audio  surveillance  company. 

John  Herrin  '84  is  vice  president  of  manu- 
facturing for  SuperPower  Inc.,  manufacturer 
of  high  temperature  superconducting  (HTS) 
materials  and  devices. 

Robert  Kilroy  '84  was  named  a  partner  in 
the  labor  and  employment  law  group  of 
Mirick  O'Connell. 

Joseph  McCartin  '84  is  CIO  for  National 
City  Corp. 

Stuart  McLean  '84  is  a  managing  director 
of  Alvarez  &  Marsal  ImPART  Group. 

Bruce  Harley  '85,  technical  director  of 
Conservation  Services  Group,  received  a 
2007  Legacy  Award  from  the  Energy  & 
Environmental  Building  Association.  He  has 


published  widely  and  gives  seminars  on 
home  energy  efficiency  and  sustainable 
building. 

Dave  LaBranche  '85  retired  in  2005  from 
a  20-year  career  as  an  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  officer.  "I  have  been  working  in 
my  second  career  as  a  geospatial  engineer 
with  Northrop  Grumman  in  the  DC  metro 
area.  The  geospatial  technologies  profession 
is  growing  rapidly,  with  great  opportunities 
for  engineers." 

Jo  Anne  Shatkin  '85 

joined  CLF  Ventures,  a 
nonprofit  environmental 
consulting  affiliate  of 
the  Conservation  Law 
Foundation,  as  managing 
director. 

Eileen  Ego  '86  and  her  partner,  Corrine 
Frost,  were  featured  in  a  2007  Mother's  Day 
newspaper  article  on  the  battle  for  gay  mar- 
riage rights  in  Connecticut.  They  live  in 
Griswold  with  their  daughters,  Kailey  and 
Kianna. 

Trans  forma  t  i  o  n  s    |    Spring  2008     39 


Bookshelf 


Recent  and  new  publications  by  the  WPI  community 
Finding  a  Fallen  Hero:  The  Death  of  a  Ball  Turret  Gunner 

by  Bob  Korkuc  '84  and  James  M.  McCaffrey    University  of  Oklahoma  Press 

When  Bob  Korkuc's  uncle  was  lost  on  a  bombing  mission  during  World 
finding  a         War  II,  the  family  thought  that  his  body  had  never  been  recovered.  In 
-  [\J     1 995  they  learned  that  Anthony  "Tony"  Korkuc,  a  gunner  on  a  B-l  7 

H^^v    Flying  Fortress,  was  buried  at  Arlington  National  Cemetery.  Bob 
Korkuc's  book  documents  his  seven-year  search  for  the  truth  about  what 
actually  occurred  over  the  skies  of  Germany  half  a  century  ago.  "A 
riveting  story  of  what  must  have  been  one  of  the  most  dangerous  and 
vulnerable  jobs  in  all  of  war,"  says  filmmaker  Ken  Burns. 

Soldiers  Lives  Through  History:  The  Early  Modern  World 

by  William  Astore  '85  and  Dennis  Showalter   Greenwood  Press 

Astore  and  his  co-author  draw  on  the  words  of  soldiers  and  period 
historians  to  render  richly  detailed  descriptions  of  military  life  from  the 
15th-  to  the  18th  century.  Topics  include  recruitment,  weaponry,  living 
conditions,  leadership,  motivation,  and  morale.  An  associate  professor 
of  history  at  Pennsylvania  College  of  Technology  (an  affiliate  of  The 
Pennsylvania  State  University),  Astore  holds  a  master's  degree  from 
Johns  Hopkins  University  and  a  doctorate  from  the  University  of  Oxford. 


The  Fugitive  Wife 

by  Peter  Brown    W.  W.  Norton  &  Co. 

p„«»c  .«o«.     h  1900,  Edwin  "Ned"  Hacker  Brown,  WPI  Class  of  1898,  set  out 
from  Worcester  to  prospect  for  gold  in  Nome,  Alaska.  His  grandson, 
y*"ooo<&*    peter  Brown,  uses  his  grandfather's  adventures-and  his  mechanical 

K    expertise  — as  the  starting  point  for  a  historical  novel  that  brings  together 
an  idealistic  engineer  and  a  resourceful  farmwoman  fleeing  a  disastrous 
marriage.  The  New  York  Times  calls  The  Fugitive  Wife  "an  enormously 
satisfying  first  novel  about  the  dreamers  and  schemers  who  flocked  to 
Alaska  at  the  turn  of  the  20th  century." 


1990: 


Tim  Daisy  '87  joined  Prism  in  Wilming- 
ton, Mass.,  as  sales  and  marketing  executive 
for  North  America. 

Rick  Farland  '87  was  promoted  to  director 
of  product  engineering  at  Hyde  Tools  in 
Southbridge,  Mass. 

Jasmohan  Singh  '87  (graduated  in  1986) 
and  his  wife,  Gona,  have  one  son,  Indraveer, 
born  in  1995.  Jasmohan  is  managing  direc- 
tor of  Frick  India  Ltd.,  a  leading  industrial 
refrigeration  presence  in  India,  doing  busi- 
ness in  19  countries. 

Michael  Blazejowski  '88  is  northeast  sales 
manager  for  the  commercial/food  sectors  of 
Alchemy  Systems. 

Julie  Peck  Trevisan  '88  and  her  husband, 
Jay,  live  in  Fuquay  Varina,  N.C.,  with  sons, 


Zach,  6,  and  Luke,  4,  and  daughter,  Kendall 
Gail,  born  Nov.  15,2006. 
Lt.  Col.  Kevin  Daul  '89  commands  the  Air 
Force  Nuclear  Weapons  and  Counterpro- 
liferation  Agency. 

Jeflf  Goldmeer  '89  was  promoted  to  fuel 
flexibility  platform  leader  in  GE  Energy's 
Power  Generation  business  unit.  Based  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.,  he  leads  product  devel- 
opment of  heavy  duty  gas  turbines  to  meet 
expanding  fuel  markets. 
Fran  Hoey  '89,  senior  vice  president  of 
Tighe  &  Bond,  made  Business  West's  list  of 
"40  Under  40." 

Todd  Wyman  '89  is  vice  president,  Global 
Supply  Chain — Transportation,  at  General 
Electric  in  Fairfield,  Conn. 


Joe  Barbagallo  '91  was 

promoted  to  senior  vice 
president  in  Woodard  & 
Curran's  White  Plains, 
N.Y.,  office. 


Gerry  Burns  '91  was  appointed  CEO  of 
USRobotics,  provider  of  wireless  and  wired 
connectivity  technology  for  the  home  or 
small  business,  with  headquarters  in 
Schaumburg,  111.  In  September  2007,  class- 
mate Brian  Gosselin  joined  Gerry  as  COO. 

Loan  Ngo  '91  was  promoted  to  vice  presi- 
dent, Barnes  Enterprise  Systems,  at  Barnes 
Group  Inc.  in  Bristol,  Conn. 
Yael  Schwartz  '91  (PhD)  is  founding  CEO 
of  Hygeia  Therapeutics  (formerly  Orcas 
Therapeutics).  The  company  has  signed  an 
exclusive  agreement  to  develop  and  com- 
mercialize a  topical  synthetic  estrogen  treat- 
ment for  vaginal  wall  atrophy  that  was 
developed  at  Yale  University. 
Andrew  Hoyen  '92,  director  of  professional 
services,  North  America,  at  Care  Stream 
Corp.,  was  named  one  of  Rochester  (N.Y) 
Business  Journal's  "40  Under  40,"  sponsored 
by  the  Simon  School  of  Business  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rochester.  He  represented  WPI  at 
the  inauguration  of  RIT's  new  president. 
William  Katzman  '92  and  Anita  Tyner  cel- 
ebrated their  new  life  together  as  husband 
and  wife  on  July  21,  2007.  The  celebration 
took  place  in  Rush,  N.Y. 

Quentin  Rissler  '92  has 
served  as  lead  bridge 
engineer  at  RETTEW 
since  1999.  He  was 
recently  named  one  of 
the  firm's  first  associates. 

Andrew  Stern  '92  is  senior  VP,  business 
development,  at  Ecosphere  Energy 
Solutions. 

Matt  Boutell  '93  and  his  wife,  Leah, 
announce  the  arrival  of  Annastasya  Jeanne, 
born  Sept.  27,  2007,  and  welcomed  warmly 
by  her  four  older  siblings. 
Christopher  Bowen  '93,  MS'99  is  a  co- 
author of  Professional  Visual  Studio  2005 
Team  Systems.  He  is  lead  applications  archi- 
tect at  Monster.com  in  Maynard,  Mass., 
and  a  member  of  Microsoft's  Patterns  & 
Practices  Customer  Advisory  Board. 


40     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


Christine  (Fillion) 
Miska  '93  was  honored 
at  a  March  ceremony  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  as  one 
of  ten  2008  Women  to 
Watch  by  Mass  High 
Tech:  The  Journal  of  New 
England  Technology.  Miska  works  as  a  sys- 
tems engineering  functional  manager  at 
BAE  Systems  IR  Imaging  Systems  in 
Lexington,  Mass. 

Steve  Vassallo  '93  was 

promoted  from  entre- 
preneur-in-residence  to 
principal  at  Foundation 
Capital.  He  lives  in  Palo 
Alto  Calif,  and  holds 
19  patents. 

Leonard  Belliveau  '94  and  his  wife,  Stacy, 
welcomed  daughter  (and  future  WPI  gradu- 
ate), Alexandra  on  June  4,  2007.  Big  sister 
Maya,  3,  could  not  wait  to  meet  her.  Len  is 
a  senior  fire  protection  engineer  and  office 
manager  of  the  Warwick,  R.I.,  office  of 
Hughes  Associates  in  Baltimore. 
Doreen  Burrell  '94  would  like  you  to  join 
her  in  welcoming  her  adopted  son,  Aiden 
Patrick.  "He  arrived  on  June  17  and  is  such 
a  blessing,"  she  writes. 

Laurence  "LJ"  Dallaire  '94  and  his  wife, 
Amy,  announce  the  birth  of  their  daughter, 
Gabrielle  Marie,  on  June  22,  2007.  She 
joins  her  sisters  Isabelle,  5,  and  Camille,  3. 
LJ  recently  started  as  a  fire  protection  con- 
sultant for  Code  Consultants  Inc.  in  New 
York  City. 

Danielle  (Luongo)  Fries  '94  (MS  FPE  '98) 

joined  American  Alarm  and  Communica- 
tions in  Arlington,  Mass.,  as  a  fire  protec- 
tion engineer. 

Dena  (Niedzwiecki)  Mechoso  '94  and  her 

husband,  Diego,  are  pleased  to  announce 
the  birth  of  their  first  child,  Ella  Marie, 
born  Jan.  7,  2008. 

Bethany  Salek  '94  and  her  husband, 
Andrew,  welcomed  their  second  child, 
Brendan  Peter,  on  Dec.  3,  2006.  His  big  sis- 
ter, Lindsey  Grace,  is  3.  Bethany  continues 
her  career  at  Saint-Gobain  in 
Worcester,  managing  the  cus- 
tomer service  and  quality 
departments  for  the  Grains  & 
.Powders  Division. 

<  Craig  Stephan  '94  and  his 

wife,  Lauren  Winterholer, 
recently  returned  from  two 
years  with  the  Peace  Corps  in 
Swaziland.  Before  their  service 
in  Africa,  Craig  worked  for  10 
years  as  a  hardware  designer 


engineer  at  Cabletron  Systems/Enterasys 
Networks  in  Rochester,  N.H.,  and  Lauren 
directed  the  N.H.  chapter  of  Girls  on  the 
Run.  They  live  in  Madbury,  N.H.,  and  can 
be  reached  at  swazimoon@yahoo.com. 
Jonathan  "Jeb"  Bertucci  '95  and  his  wife, 
Michelle,  welcome  their  third  daughter, 
Gianna  Mei,  born  Dec.  22,  2006.  They,  and 
big  sisters  Kayla,  9,  and  Mariah,  5,  are  living 
happily  in  Apex,  N.C. 

Tom  '95  and  Raina  (Shahbazi)  Yeulenski  '97 

welcomed  their  first  son,  Jack,  Aug.  30,  2007. 
Jenn  (Healy)  '96  and  Mark  Anderson  '95 

welcomed  their  second  child,  Lydia  Rose, 
on  Feb.  23,  2007.  Mark  is  senior  fire  pro- 
tection engineer  at  Vermont  Yankee,  and 
Jenn  serves  on  the  National  HR  leadership 
team  at  PricewaterhouseCoopers.  They 
reside  in  Chesterfield,  N.H. 

Christopher  Bruno  '96  and  his  wife, 
Dianne,  celebrated  the  birth  of  a  son, 
Alexander,  on  May  16,  2007.  They  recently 
moved  to  Hudson,  Mass.,  where  Chris 
works  for  Teradyne  Inc.  as  a  systems  architect. 
The  family  of  Sue  (MacPherson)  '96  and 
Eric  Kristoff  '94  has  grown  with  the  addi- 
tion of  Hayden,  born  in  November  2005. 
Older  brother  Perrin  was  sad  to  give  up  the 
undivided  attention  of  two  parents,  but  is 
warming  up  to  Hayden.  Sue  recently  cele- 
brated the  first  anniversary  of  her  consulting 
business,  The  Kristoff  Group  LLC  (kristoff- 
group.com). 

Melissa  (Perkalis)  '96  and  Jason  Lamb  '98 

welcomed  their  third  child,  Michael  William, 
on  Dec.  22,  2006.  He  enjoys  playing  with 
his  two  older  sisters,  Sarah  and  Meghan. 
Tim  Tully  '96  and  his  wife,  Cara,  added 
another  boy  to  the  family.  Aidan  Michael 
was  born  in  December  2006.  His  big  broth- 
ers are  Connor,  10,  and  Seamus,  3. 

Nathan  Berube  '97  is  a  project  manager 
at  Environmental  Compliance  Services  in 
Agawam,  Mass.  He  married  Mary  Packard 
last  year. 

Hector  Hernandez  '97  writes,  "My  wife, 
Sandra,  and  I  welcomed  our  first  child,  Gael 
David,  on  July  15,  which  also  happened  to 
be  my  birthday.  Quite  a  great  present!" 
Shannon  Hogan  '97  married  Matthew 
Hollander,  April  21,  2007.  They  both  serve 
as  pediatricians  at  Misawa  Air  Force  Base  in 
Japan. 

Alison  Faye  (Possas)  Johnson  '97  and  her 

husband,  Christopher,  welcomed  to  the 
world  their  son,  Alexander  Christian,  on  Jan. 
27,  2007. 

Brian  '98  and  Kellie  (Martin)  Bresnahan 

'01  welcomed  their  first  child,  Claire 


Martin  Bresnahan,  on  July  29,  2007.  They 
live  in  Grafton,  Mass. 

Matthew  Eastwood  '98  is  vice  president  of 
Enterprise  Platforms  Group,  International 
Data  Corporation,  Framingham,  Mass. 
Kristen  (Gongoleski)  Fairbanks  '98  and 

her  husband,  Jonathan,  welcomed  their  first 
child,  Connor,  on  Dec.  20,  2006.  They 
make  their  home  in  Coventry,  R.I. 

Jill  (Johnson)  '98  and  Aaron  Korthas  '99 

are  pleased  to  announce  the  birth  of  twins, 
Jack  and  Kali,  on  Dec.  13  and  14,  2007. 
Jack  weighed  in  first,  at  7  lbs.  2  oz.,  and 
Kali  came  along  three  hours  later  at  5  lbs., 
1 3  ounces.  Mom  is  taking  a  break  from 
teaching  high  school  chemistry  to  stay  home 
with  them. 

John  Lambie  '98  and  his  wife,  Wendy,  were 
also  blessed  with  twins.  Emma  Faye  and 
Evan  Maverick  were  born  Sept.  29,  2007,  in 
Houston,  Texas.  After  a  brief  stay  in  inten- 
sive care,  both  kids  are  healthy  and  happy  to 
be  at  home. 

Emma  Palmacci  '98  volunteers  with 
Connecticut  Greyhound  Adoption,  helping 
prepare  retired  racing  dogs  make  the  transi- 
tion to  house  pet.  The  Hartford  Courant  ran 
an  article  on  her  efforts  to  help  dogs  left 
jobless  by  the  closure  of  racing  tracks  find 
new  homes.  She  works  as  a  project  analyst 
for  Nerac  Inc. 

Aaron  Shumate 

'98  married  Satsuki 
Koyama.  Aaron's 
grandfather  offici- 
ated at  the  Sept.  1 , 
2007,  wedding. 
The  couple  lives 
in  Irvine,  Calif. 


Jennifer  Brown  '99,  second  from  left, 
married  John  Gardner,  Sept.  15,  2007. 
Shown  with  her  are  maid  of  honor  Jessica 
(Hamel)  Kelly  '99,  Jennifer  Marcello  '99, 
and  Tara  Devarakonda  '99.  Also  in  atten- 
dance were  Jennifer  Marcello  '99  and 
Liam  Kelly  '98.  After  a  honeymoon  in  the 
Greek  Islands,  the  couple  lives  with  their 
two  dogs  in  Woburn,  Mass.  Jen  works  for 
Biogenldec  in  Cambridge  as  an  oncology 
research  scientist. 

Transformations    \    Spring  2008     4  1 


Justin  Cozzens  '99  and  Jill  Howard  were 
united  in  marriage  Aug.  25,  2007.  They 
reside  in  Charlotte,  Vt.  Justin  is  employed 
at  GE  Healthcare,  and  Jill  works  for 
Vermont  Information  Processing.  Her 
grandfather,  Joseph  Sotens,  taught  at  WPI 
for  many  years. 

Timothy  Miranda  '99  and  Elizabeth 
Stewart  announce  the  birth  of  Sophia  Elena, 
on  March  9,  2007. 


2000 


Mark  Barr  is  a  seminarian  at  St.  John's 
Seminary.  He  was  profiled  recently  in  The 
Pilot,  the  Boston  Archdiocese  newspaper. 

Kristiferanne  (Dryer)  and  Ryan  Abraham 

'98  welcomed  their  daughter,  Haley 
Elizabeth,  on  Jan.  2,  2007. 

"Married  the  love  of  my  life,  Jenene,  on  Jan. 
27,  2007,"  writes  Stefano  Ceriana.  They 
happily  announce  the  birth  of  their  daugh- 
ter, Anna  Sophia,  on  Oct.  16,  2007. 

Holly  (Weymouth)  Fanjoy  and  her  hus- 
band, Rob,  welcomed  their  first  child, 
Jacob,  on  Dec.  16,  2007.  Holly  is  complet- 
ing her  residency  in  emergency  medicine  at 
the  University  of  Michigan  and  will  start 
employment  at  Eastern  Maine  Medical 
Center  in  Bangor  in  the  fall. 


Scott  "Skoot"  Hamel  is  in  the  PhD 

program  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin, 
Madison,  researching  long-term  creep  of 
wood  plastics.  He  completed  his  master's  at 
the  University  of  Colorado  in  August  2005, 
and  married  Ellen  Adams  on  Sept.  30,  2006. 

Steve  and  Lisa  (Baroffio)  Vallee  welcomed 
Alexander  Scott  on  Nov.  30,  2007. 

Nathan  and  Sarah  Snow  Wilfert  welcomed 
their  second  child,  Ridge  London,  Aug.  24, 
2007.  The  family  resides  in  Redmond,  Wash. 


2001 


Brian  Blair  is  serving  in  the  Navy.  He  mar- 
ried Caitlin  Deeble,  an  elementary  school 
teacher. 

Mike  Gorse  works  for  Duxbury  Systems  in 
Westford,  Mass.,  as  a  programmer  of  Braille 
translation  software.  He  participates  in  the 
Vision  5K  walk  in  Boston,  with  fellow 
employees — both  blind  and  blindfolded — as 
a  fund-raiser  for  advocacy,  literacy,  and  reha- 
bilitation programs  for  people  with  visual 
impairments. 

John  Gleeson  took  the  men's  title  in  the 
Stratham  (N.H.)  Fair  Road  Race  last  sum- 
mer. His  recent  races  include  the  2007 
Boston  Marathon  and  the  Mt.  Washington 
Road  Race. 


Paul  Leemans  (MS 

CS)  is  living  in  the 
Netherlands  and 
working  for  Philips 
International  in 
Eindhoven.  He  was 
recently  promoted  to  director,  Internet, 
Intranet,  Portal.  His  fourth  child  (pictured) 
was  born  in  March  2007. 

Stacey  Leisenfelder  graduated  from  SUNY 
Upstate  Medical  University  with  a  PhD  in 
microbiology  and  immunology.  She  is  now 
a  postdoctoral  scientist  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  in  Farmington. 


Many  alumni  turned  out  for  the  wedding 
of  Michael  Quigley  and  Jennifer  Grimes 
on  Aug.  12,  2006.  The  couple  lives  in 
Stoneham,  Mass. 


THE  PART-TIME  MBA  AT  WPI 

Online,  on  campus,  or  both.  It's  your  choi 

#1  injk^Northeast 


ranked 

Busir&sWeek 


MS  in  Information  Technology  -  MS  i 


Additional  Management  Programs 


rations  Design  and  Leadership 


DEPARTMENT  9L  MANAGEMENT 


For  more  information 

508-831-5218 
www.mql.wpi.edu 


4  2     Transform  a  t  i  o  ns    \    Spring  2008 


Class  Notes 


2002 


Navy  pilot  Lt.  Matthew  Billings  had  the 
honor  of  flying  a  group  of  Red  Sox  players 
who  visited  his  base  at  North  Naval  Air 
Station  for  a  tour  of  a  Navy  destroyer  last 
summer.  His  co-pilot  on  the  MH-60 
Knighthawk  (Sierra)  helicopter  ride  was  a 
Worcester  State  grad,  and  the  rest  of  the  cho- 
sen crew  were  also  Red  Sox  fans.  He  has  been 
stationed  in  Coronado,  Calif,  for  three  years 
and  has  served  two  tours  of  duty  in  Iraq. 
Brian  Conway  and  Kathleen  Wilson  were 
engaged  on  Feb.  13,  2008.  Brian  works  as  a 
software  engineer  in  Marlborough,  Mass. 
Kate  is  a  graduate  of  Merrimack  College 
('01)  and  is  a  QA  Engineer  in  Framingham. 
Kevin  and  Shannon  (Hoosick)  Cornwall 
'03,  who  were  married  in  February  2005, 
welcomed  their  first  son,  Conor  Xavier,  on 
Aug.  10,2007. 

Meghan  (Fraizer)  Cryan  and  her  husband, 
Marc,  are  proud  to  announce  the  birth  of 
their  second  child,  Molly  Rose,  born  Sept. 
24,  2007.  The  family  also  includes  big  sister 
Emma. 

David  Daltorio 

(MS  CPM)  joined 
Woodard  &  Curran 
as  a  project  engineer. 


Thomas  Geer  was  promoted  to  super- 
intendent at  Consigli  Construction  Co., 
where  he  has  worked  since  2005.  He  has 
had  several  academic  institutions  as  clients, 
including  Harvard,  Framingham  State,  and 
the  University  of  Vermont,  and  he  is  cur- 
rently managing  a  regional  high  school 
project. 

Michael  Krager  and  Alyssa  Chelotti 
became  engaged  on  Feb.  22,  2007,  in  North 
Conway,  N.H.  Michael  is  working  at 
Kidde-Fenwal  as  a  mechanical  engineer. 
Alyssa  is  an  elementary  school  teacher. 


Sam  Gutmann,  Neal  Bradbury,  and  Steve 
Frank  started  Intronis,  an  Internet-based 
backup  system  in  Englewood,  N.J. 


2003 


David  and  Andrea  (Maderiro)  Baker's 

baby,  Lola  Jane,  was  born  Feb.  2,  2006. 
"Andrea  has  taken  up  American  Sign 
Language  while  being  an  amazing  stay-at- 
home  mom,"  says  Dave.  He  is  working  at 
Item  NPD  (itemnpd.com),  and  when  not 
spending  time  with  his  family,  still  manages 
to  get  out  racing.  They  live  in  Bristol  R.I. 
"Check  out  bakersdozenracing.com  to  see 
pictures  of  us  and  our  adventures!" 


2004 


Jeff  Bacon,  senior  software  engineer  at 
SeaChange  International,  was  named  one  of 
Mass  High  Tech's  "People  to  Watch  Under  30." 

Correction:  John  Baird  received  a  master's 
degree  in  biostatistics,  not  epidemiology,  as 
reported  in  the  last  issue.  He  graduated 
from  the  Yale  Graduate  School  of  Arts  and 
Sciences.  John  is  now  a  PhD  student  in  the 
Department  of  Biostatistics  at  the  University 
of  Pittsburgh  Graduate  School  of  Public 
Health.  More  information  on  his  Create  a 
Comic  Project,  which  promotes  literacy 
for  school  children,  may  be  found  at 
ccproject.comicgenesis.com. 
Erin  Dupak  and  Thomas  Daly  were 
married  June  23,  2007.  Wedding  attendants 
included  CJ  Chretien  and  Jake  McAleer 
'05.  Erin  received  a  master's  degree  in  bio- 
engineering  from  the  University  of 
California,  San  Diego.  She  is  an  R&D  engi- 
neer at  Boston  Scientific.  Tom  is  president 
of  Dynamic  Network  Services.  The  newly- 
weds  reside  in  Nashua,  N.H. 

Anna  "Hammer"  Foss  and  Craig  "Ralphie" 
Dionne  '03  became  engaged  on  Jan.  8,  2008. 
Craig  is  a  loss  prevention  consultant  for 
Liberty  Mutual  Property,  and  Anna  is  a 
product  specialist  for  Rogers  Corp.  They 
reside  in  Woodstock,  Conn.  A  fall  2008 
wedding  is  planned. 

Anthony  Maietta  became  engaged  to 
Lauren  Boulanger  on  Sept.  24,  2006;  they 
will  be  married  on  July  6,  2008.  He  is  cur- 
rently working  for  Simonds  International  as 
director  of  new  product  development  for 
Wood  Processing  Products.  He  is  also  the 
sole  proprietor  of  Maietta  Handbuilt 
Bicycles. 

An  excerpt  of  Daniel  Wallance's  Sufficiency 
report,  "Defrosting  Embryo  Adoption," 
written  for  the  Center  for  Adoption  Policy, 
was  published  in  the  book  Opposing 
Viewpoints:  Reproductive  Technologies,  pub- 
lished by  Thomson  Gale.  His  report  exam- 
ines current  practices  of  embryo  adoption. 


2005 


Dale  Ames  recently  joined  Beswick 
Engineering's  Product  Engineering  Dept. 
Marta  Katrzyna  Krajewska  Asack  and  her 

husband,  Louis,  welcomed  their  first  child, 
a  baby  boy,  on  April  10,  2007. 


Jared  Birmingham,  left,  and  Nick 
Williams  (both  '02,  '04  MS  FPE) 
celebrated  Independence  Day  2007 
by  bungee  jumping  from  Macau 
Tower— at  764  feet  it's  the  world's 


highest  commer- 
cial jump.  The 
former  FIJI  room- 
mates now  share 
a  lOth-floor  apart- 
ment in  a  high-rise 
that  overlooks  the 
jump  site. 

Despite  their  death- 
defying  idea  of 
fun,  Birmingham 
and  Williams 
spend  their  days 
ensuring  safety  of 
others.  They  work 
in  Macau  for  Rolf  Jensen  Associates, 
providing  third-party  fire  protection  and 
life  safety  review  services  to  new  casino 
operators  in  the  island's  burgeoning 
Vegas-style  entertainment  district. 


Janet  Moonan  joined  Woodard  &  Curran 
as  a  civil  engineer.  She  is  working  on  her 
MS  in  environmental  and  water  resources 
engineering  at  Tufts. 

Jessica  Reidel  is  engaged  to  David  Sarcione. 
The  wedding  is  planned  for  the  fall  of  2009. 
They  live  in  the  DC  metro  area  and  plan  to 
purchase  their  first  home  soon. 

Master  of  Natural  Science 

Bob  Gillies  '68  was  elected  to  serve  as  a 
member  of  the  National  Education  Associ- 
ation Board  of  Directors  in  Washington, 
D.C.,  and  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts 
Teachers  Association  Board  of  Directors, 
based  in  Boston.  He  is  professor  emeritus  at 
Quinsigamond  Community  College. 


Transformations    |    Spring  2008     43 


Obituaries 


William  F.  Drake  '33 

(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  of 
Framingham,  Mass., 
died  Oct.  5,  2007. 
Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Anne  (Gallagher),  he 
leaves  four  children.  A 
longtime  industrial  engineer  for  Dennison 
Manufacturing  Co.,  he  later  founded 
William  F.  Drake  Associates  and  opened 
Millwood  Farms  Golf  Course,  which  his 
family  still  operates. 

Harold  B.  Bell  '34  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Worcester  died  Oct.  6,  2007.  His  wife, 
Corinne  (Johnson),  died  in  2004.  Two 
daughters  survive  him.  Bell  worked  at  Hobbs 
Manufacturing  as  a  purchasing  agent  and  was 
vice  president  of  Worcester  Stamped  Metal. 

Warren  R.  Burns  '34  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  St.  Petersburg  Beach,  Fla.,  and  Plymouth, 
Mass.,  died  May  31,  2007.  He  was  an  engi- 
neer for  Carter's  Inc.,  and  later  for  Sara  Lee 
Corp.  He  was  predeceased  by  his  wife.  Avis 
(Graves),  and  a  daughter.  A  son  survives  him. 

Charles  J.  Egan  '34 

(Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon) 
of  Lexington,  Mass., 
died  March  8,  2007. 
Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Helen  (Carney)  in  1978, 
he  leaves  two  children. 
Egan  was  retired  from  Liberty  Mutual 
Insurance  Co.  as  chief  underwriter. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Harold  F.  Greeney  '34  in  1996.  He  was 
retired  from  Sandy  Hill  Corp.  He  and  his 
late  wife,  Alice,  had  three  children. 

Herbert  V.  Leckie  '35  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Plymouth,  Mich.,  died  Aug.  25,  2007. 
His  wife,  Pauline,  died  in  1995.  Two  chil- 
dren survive  him.  Leckie  was  retired  from 
Occidental  Petroleum  Corp. 

Daniel  J.  Harrington  III  '36  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  San  Diego,  Calif,  died  Sept.  10, 
2006.  A  graduate  of  the  U.S.  Naval 
Academy,  he  served  as  chief  of  staff  of  the 
Naval  Air  Basic  Training  Command  in 
Pensacola,  Fla.,  and  retired  from  the  Navy 
in  1969.  He  and  his  wife,  Joyce  (Hancock), 
had  five  children. 

Transformations  notes  the  death  of  R. 
Michael  Hood,  known  at  WPI  as  Ralph  I. 
Houdush  '36,  in  1993.  He  and  his  wife, 
Rose,  had  two  children.  He  was  a  retired 
accountant  for  the  Massachusetts  state  gov- 


44     Transformations    \   Spring  2008 


Walter  B.  Bauer  Jr.  '37 

(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  of 
Columbus,  Ohio,  died 
Jan.  23,  2007.  His  wife, 
Elizabeth,  died  later  that 
year.  He  was  vice  president 
of  William  Bayley  Co. 

John  C.  Bradshaw  '38 

died  Dec.  24,  2006,  leav- 
ing his  wife,  Helen.  A 
former  engineer  for  U.S. 
Steel,  he  lived  in  Rocky 
River,  Ohio. 

Oscar  A.  Fick  Jr.  '38 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of  Westbrook,  Maine, 
died  Oct.  10,  2007.  He  was  retired  from 
S.  D.  Warren  Co.,  where  he  worked  for  35 
years,  serving  as  chief  electrical  engineer  and 
superintendent.  His  wife,  Connie  (Lewis), 
died  in  1991.  Two  children  survive  him. 

Henry  S.  Blauvelt  '39  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Liberty  Corner,  N.J.,  died  Feb.  18,  2008. 
Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Eleanor  (Gillett), 
he  is  survived  by  three  children.  Blauvelt 
was  retired  from  Public  Service  Electric  & 
Gas  as  assistant  general  manager  of  electric 
transmission  and  distribution. 

R.  Adrien  Jacques  '39  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  Ho-Ho-Kus,  N.J.,  died  June  11,  2007. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Patricia  (Hardy),  and  three 
children.  His  first  wife,  Helen,  predeceased 
him.  A  sales  engineer,  he  worked  in  manage- 
ment for  several  machine  tool  companies. 

Arthur  H.  Mallon  '39  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Worcester,  died  Sept.  1 1,  2007.  His  wife, 
Helen,  died  in  2006.  Three  children  survive 
them.  A  proud  alumnus,  his  license  plate 
read  WPI  39.  Mallon  earned  a  master's 
degree  in  civil  engineering  from  Northeastern 
University  and  taught  at  several  colleges  in 
the  Boston  area,  where  he  also  contributed 
to  renovations  of  historic  landmarks.  He 
later  worked  for  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Defense  and  the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency. 

Donald  Ramaker  '40  (Phi  Gamma  Delta) 
of  South  Glastonbury,  Conn.,  died  Sept.  12, 
2007.  He  worked  for  Hamilton  Standard 
for  37  years  and  retired  as  chief  of  design. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Jean  (Mitchell),  and 
three  children. 

Alden  T.  Roys  '40  of  Worcester  died  July 
19,  2007.  He  earned  a  master's  in  mechani- 
cal engineering  from  WPI  in  1963  and 
worked  at  Alden  Research  Laboratory.  He 
was  the  son  of  the  late  Francis  W  Roys, 
Class  of  1909,  a  former  professor  and  inter- 
im president  of  WPI.  Survivors  include  his 
cousins  and  his  longtime  caretaker,  Lucille 
Bressette. 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Donald  S.  Denio  '41  (Theta  Chi)  in  2005. 
He  was  retired  from  Boston  &  Maine 
Railroad.  His  wife,  Patricia,  survives  him. 

John  S.  Ingham  '41  (Alpha  Tau  Omega)  of 
Surprise,  Ariz.,  died  Dec.  25,  2006,  leaving 
his  wife,  Doris.  He  earned  a  master's  degree 
in  aerospace  engineering  at  California 
Institute  of  Technology  and  worked  in 
research  and  development  for  the  U.S.  Air 
Force.  He  later  retired  from  ARO  Inc. 

F.  Douglas  McKeown  '41  (SIM  62) 
(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of  Worcester  died 
April  12,  2007.  His  wife,  Rosamond 
(Hughes),  died  in  2005.  Two  daughters  sur- 
vive him.  McKeown  worked  at  U.S.  Steel 
for  25  years  and  later  retired  from  New 
England  High  Carbon  Wire  Corp.  He 
served  as  assistant  director  of  research  at  WPI 
in  the  1960s,  helping  students  and  faculty 
collaborate  on  corporate  research  projects. 

Edwin  M.  Ryan  '41  of  Alexandria,  Va., 
died  April  7,  2007.  After  serving  as  a  naval 
aerospace  engineer  during  World  War  II,  he 
joined  Piasecki  Helicopter  Corp.  He  later 
served  as  a  mechanical  engineer  for  the 
Navy's  Bureau  of  Aeronautics  and  the  Naval 
Air  Systems  Command.  Predeceased  by  his 
wife,  Jane,  he  leaves  four  children. 

Jerome  E.  Schread  '41  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Stone  Mountain,  Ga.,  died  May  26, 
2007.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Marion  (Collins). 
He  worked  for  Bath  Iron  Works  in  Maine. 

Philip  J.  Hastings  '42  (Theta  Chi)  of 
Strongsville,  Ohio,  died  May  5,  2007.  He 
was  retired  from  a  39-year  career  with 
Union  Carbide,  during  which  he  traveled  to 
many  parts  of  the  world  to  implement  new 
furnace  technology  for  steel  production.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Mary  (Starbuck),  and  five 
children. 

Kelvin  H.  Kiely  '42  (Alpha  Tau  Omega) 
of  Reading,  Mass,  died  April  1,  2007.  A 
longtime  mechanical  engineer  for  General 
Electric,  he  leaves  four  daughters.  He  was 
predeceased  by  a  son. 

Warren  Robert  "Bob"  Lotz  '42  (Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon,  Skull)  of  Bayside,  Wise,  died  Jan. 
26,  2008.  The  former  president  and  chair- 
man of  Cecco  Trading  Co.,  he  later  founded 
Timber  Holdings  International  with  his  son 
Brian.  His  expertise  in  organic  wood  preser- 
vatives resulted  in  several  patents  on  non- 
toxic treatment  methods.  He  was  a  longtime 
trustee  of  The  ALS  Association,  which  estab- 
lished the  Lotz  Humanitarian  Award  in  his 
honor.  Survivors  include  his  wife,  Adelle, 
and  four  children.  A  daughter  preceded  him 
in  death. 


UDiTuaries 


Paul  C.  Yankauskas  '42  of  Long  Beach, 
Calif.,  died  Nov.  26,  2007.  He  was  retired 
as  plant  manager  from  Ohline  Corp. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Helen,  and  six 
children. 


Jackson  L.  Durkee  '43 

(Alpha  Tau  Omega)  of 
Bethlehem,  Pa.,  died 
June  14,  2007.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Marian  (Carry), 
and  three  daughters.  An 
expert  on  steel  suspen- 
sion bridge  construction,  he  spent  most  of 
his  career  with  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp., 
where  he  developed  the  parallel-wire  strand 
method  of  cable  construction.  He  later 
taught  at  Cornell  University  and  developed 
his  own  consulting  practice.  A  former  presi- 
dent of  the  American  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers,  he  was  elected  to  the  National 
Academy  of  Engineering  in  1995  and  hon- 
ored with  WPI's  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award 
for  Outstanding  Professional  Achievement 
in  1998. 

George  F.  Fairhurst  '43  of  Waldorf,  Md., 
died  March  1,  2007.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Joyce,  and  five  children.  He  retired  from 
RCA  in  1974  as  director  of  product  assur- 
ance and  later  held  the  post  of  director  of 
strategic  planning  for  Downey  Community 
Hospital. 

Harry  H.  Merkel  '43  (Alpha  Tau  Omega, 
Skull)  of  Brewster,  Mass.,  died  Aug.  27, 
2007.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Nancy  (Ellis)  and 
three  children.  He  was  predeceased  by  his 
first  wife,  Frances  (Rickard).  Merkel  was 
retired  from  Mercury  Co.  as  CEO  and 
board  chairman. 

Robert  A.  Painter  '43 

(Theta  Chi)  of  Win- 
chester, Mass.,  died  May 
25,  2007.  Survivors 
include  his  wife,  Louise 
(Brennan),  and  two  chil- 
dren. Painter  founded 

Electronic  Instrument  and  Specialty  Corp. 

and  later  served  as  president  of  Beta  Labs 

Inc.  and  Specialty  Corp. 

Carle  W.  Highberg  '44 

(Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Sycamore,  111.,  died  Oct. 
10,  2006.  He  was  the 
retired  vice  president  of 
research  and  develop- 
ment for  Elgin  Diamond 
Products.  Predeceased  by  his  wife,  Mary 
(Carpenter),  he  leaves  two  children. 


Floyd  F.  Smith  '44  (Lambda  Chi  Alpha)  of 
Greenville,  S.C.,  died  Sept.  27,  2006.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Mary  White,  and  six  chil- 
dren. Smith  was  retired  from  GE  Lighting. 

Transformations  recently  learned  of  the  death 
of  Wallace  A.  Underwood  '44  (Phi  Sigma 
Kappa)  in  2004.  A  former  partner  with 
Samuel  Ayres  Associates,  he  later  worked  for 
American  Can  Co. 

Howard  D.  Gerring  '45  (Alpha  Tau 
Omega)  of  Fairfield,  Conn.,  died  April  16, 
2007.  He  retired  from  a  25-year  career  with 
International  Paper  Co.  in  1978  and  later 
worked  for  Connecticut  National  Bank, 
now  Bank  of  America.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Lillian  (Pastore),  and  three  children.  He  was 
predeceased  by  his  first  wife,  Jeanne 
(Adams). 

John  T.  Hegeman  '45  (Theta  Chi)  of  West 
Vancouver,  British  Columbia,  Canada,  died 
April  14,  2007.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Nanette, 
and  two  children.  He  was  retired  as  vice 
president  of  Chemetics  International. 

Rev.  Willard  "Bill"  Legg  '45  of  Leicester, 
Mass.,  died  June  16,  2007.  He  is  survived 
by  his  wife,  Eleanor,  and  three  children.  A 
longtime  Methodist  minister,  he  served 
churches  in  Massachusetts,  Connecticut, 
and  Vermont. 

Roger  P.  Roberge  '45 

(Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
Skull)  of  Fort  Myers 
Beach,  Fla.,  and 
Hendersonville,  N.C., 
died  March  18,2007. 
He  is  survived  by  his 

wife,  Shirley  (Carlson),  and  three  children. 

He  was  predeceased  by  a  son.  A  longtime 

HVAC  engineer,  he  was  retired  as  the  owner 

of  Roberge  Associates. 

William  G.  Hogan  '46  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Southbury,  Conn.,  died  Oct.  18,  2007. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Mary  Ann  (Wallace),  and 
six  children.  He  was  a  retired  orthodontist. 

Cecil  A.  McCurry  '46  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Zachary,  La.,  died  March  27, 
2007.  He  was  a  retired  papermaker.  He 
worked  for  James  River  Corp.  for  23  years. 
Survivors  include  his  wife,  Beti,  and  four 
children. 

Ronald  B.  Paris  '46  (Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon) 
of  Worcester  and  Fort  Myers  Beach,  Fla., 
died  June  30,  2007.  Predeceased  by  his  wife, 
Elia  (Ronnback),  in  1990,  he  leaves  two 
daughters  and  his  fiancee,  Diane  Harrison. 
He  was  the  longtime  owner  and  operator  of 
Indiana  Screw  Machine  Products. 


Edward  T.  George  '47  (MS  CM  '49)  (Phi 
Kappa  Theta,  Skull)  of  Hamden,  Conn., 
died  March  16,  2007.  After  a  career  in 
industry,  he  joined  the  computer  science 
faculty  at  the  University  of  New  Haven  and 
retired  as  department  director  and  professor 
emeritus. 

Edward  F.  Supple  '47  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Nashua,  N.H.,  died  July  16,  2007.  He 
received  an  MBA  from  Harvard  Business 
School.  A  self-employed  financial  planner, 
he  previously  worked  for  Prudential 
Insurance.  He  and  his  late  wife,  Mary,  had 
nine  children. 

Harold  J.  Devlin  '48  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Conroe,  Texas,  died  Feb.  13,  2007.  An 
architect  and  engineer,  his  accomplishments 
include  construction  of  the  Houston  Center 
project,  renovation  of  the  Creighton 
Theater,  and  expansion  of  the  Texas  prison 
system.  He  also  served  as  director  of  project 
management  for  the  Texas  Children's 
Hospital.  Survivors  included  his  wife, 
Cynthia  (Tuckey),  and  three  children. 

Carl  P.  Hershfield  '48  (Alpha  Epsilon  Pi) 
of  Canton,  Mass.,  died  March  11,  2007. 
He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Betty,  and  a  son. 
Hershfield  was  a  retired  consultant  for 
Arthur  D.  Little  Inc. 

William  L.  Wagner  '48  (MS  EE)  (Lambda 
Chi  Alpha)  of  Ft.  Myers,  Fla.,  died  July  30, 
2007,  leaving  his  wife,  Barbara,  and  two 
children.  He  was  a  longtime  manager  at 
Northeast  Utilities. 

Rene  H.  Bachand  '49  (Phi  Kappa  Theta) 
of  Longmeadow,  Mass.,  died  July  18,  2007. 
He  earned  an  MBA  from  American  Inter- 
national College  and  retired  as  assistant 
superintendent  of  the  Longmeadow  Public 
Schools  in  1991.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
Mary  (LaBella)  and  two  children. 

Thomas  E.  Donelan  Jr.  '49  died  April  22, 
2007,  at  his  home  in  New  Canaan,  Conn. 
He  leaves  nine  children  and  their  mother, 
Joan  Vincent  Donelan.  He  was  retired  from 
Prudential  Financial  Services. 

Eugene  R.  Rogers  '49  of  Waltham,  Mass., 
died  March  10,  2007.  His  wife,  Shirley,  sur- 
vives him.  He  earned  a  master's  degree  in 
electrical  engineering  from  Northeastern 
University  and  worked  for  Raytheon  Co. 

Wyman  R.  Thomas  '49  (Lambda  Chi 
Alpha)  of  Middlebury,  Vt.,  died  Aug.  9, 
2007.  His  wife,  Joyce  (Goodro),  died  in 
2005.  He  was  a  co-owner,  along  with  his 
brothers-in-law,  of  Goodro  Lumber  Co.,  the 
family  business  founded  by  Joyce's  father. 
His  four  children  survive  him. 


Transformations    \    Spring  2008     4  5 


John  T.  Cocker  '50    Skull)  of  Nantucket. 
Mass..  died  July  23.  200".  leaving  his  wire. 
Barbara  (Cassidy).  and  two  children.  He 
was  hired  by  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 
right  after  graduation,  where  he  continued 
until  retirement,  contributing  to  the  design 
of  the  company's  early  computers  and  earn- 
ing several  patents. 

Hammond  Robertson  Jr.  '50  I  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon)  of  Cleverdale.  N.Y..  died 
Dec.  6.  2006.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife. 
Joan,  and  three  children.  He  was  retired 
from  CIBA  Specialty  Chemicals  and  served 
on  many  town  committees  and  boards. 

Guido  Biagini  '51  ot 

Bonita  Springs.  Fla..  died 
April  24.  200".  He  leaves 
his  wife.  Vivian,  three 
sons,  and  a  stepdaughter. 
Biagini  received  numer- 
ous patents  for  refriger- 
ants used  in  the  aeronautics  industry.  He 
also  helped  develop  the  backpack  used  on 
the  first  lunar  landing.  He  retired  from 
Hamilton  Sundstrand  Corp.  in  1990. 

^m^^T-     1   William  F.  Sheehan  Jr. 
^        '51  (Theta  Chi)  of 
£^H         Lenoxdale,  Mass.,  died 

-*  W     -Iune  2L  -0(r- Prede" 

BL.       ceased  by  his  wire. 
^^1  ^B^fl  I    -^aureen  'Martin),  he  is 
H^Lifli    J    survived  by  five  children. 
He  worked  for  General  Electric  Co.  for 
more  than  25  years. 

Pixro  P.  "Peter"  Quamo  '52  ( Phi  Gamma 
Delta)  of  Swampscott,  Mass..  died  June  23. 
200".  He  leaves  his  wife,  Constance 
(Linehan),  and  four  children.  He  worked 
for  General  Electric  Co.  for  many  years  and 
later  retired  from  General  Systems  Co.  as 
vice  president  of  marketing. 

Kenneth  E.  Haaland  '53  I  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  Skull)  of  Pittsfield.  Mass.,  died 
Sept.  4,  200".  After  35  years  of  service  in 
the  Ordnance  Division  of  General  Electric 
Co.,  he  retired  in  1990.  His  wife.  Norma 
(Crane),  died  in  2003.  Two  children  survive 
him. 

Clayton  S.  Brown  '54  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
ofWestwood,  Mass.,  died  April  14,  200". 
He  was  retired  from  Nova  Biomedical  Corp. 
He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Jacqueline,  and 
his  son,  Scon  Brown   82. 

John  H.  Greenaway  Jr.  '54  of  Nashua. 
N.H..  died  Oct.  24,  200"\  Survivors  include 
his  wife,  Ruth  (Linscott),  and  two  children. 
Greenaway  was  the  retired  chairman  and 
president  of  SKF  Steel  USA,  and  Ovako 
Steel  I 


Souren  JafTarian  Jr.  '54 

ot  Ashland.  Mass..  died 
May  9.  200".  Survivors 
include  two  brothers, 
nephews,  and  a  niece.  He 
was  retired  from  Denni- 
son  Manufacturing  Co. 

Jan  K.  Marthins  '54  of  Tonsberg,  Norwav. 
died  July  3.  200".  He  leaves  his  wire.  Vera, 
and  four  children.  He  was  a  senior  scientist 
in  the  Underwater  Defense  Division  of  FFI 
(Forsvarets  Forskningsinstitutt).  the 
Norwegian  Defense  Research  Establishment. 

Bruce  A-  Sealy  '55  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon)  of 
St.  Louis,  Mo.,  died  April  19.  200".  He  was 
the  owner  of  L  niGraFix  Inc.  Two  children 
survive  him. 

George  P.  Strom  '56  (Phi  Kappa  Theta, 
Skull)  of  Jupiter.  Fla..  died  Oct.  11.  200". 
leaving  his  wife,  Carla.  He  is  also  survived 
by  two  children.  A  graduate  of  the  MBA 
program  at  Syracuse  University,  he  was  the 
retired  director  of  materials  management  for 
Remington  Products. 

Gerald  R.  Wootton  '56  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Thomaston,  Conn.,  died  Sept. 
26.  200".  He  leaves  his  wife,  Emma 
(Crameri),  and  three  children.  Wootton 
retired  from  QCI  as  an  electrical  engineer 
and  later  worked  as  a  funeral  assistant.  He 
also  founded  Dew  Consulting  and  held 
several  patents. 

Seymour  L.  Friedman  '57  (Alpha  Epsilon 
Pi)  of  Saddle  River.  N.J.,  died  June  30, 
200".  He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Naomi, 
and  two  children.  He  was  the  CEO  of 
International  Sourcing  Inc. 

Pascal  A.  Mancini  '57  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Sterling,  Mass.,  died  Aug.  24, 
200".  A  chemical  engineer,  he  worked  for 
Stauffer  Chemical  and  later  served  as  a 
research  analyst  for  NERAC.  He  leaves  his 
wife,  Errol  (Smith),  and  three  children. 

John  M.  Sarkisian  '57  (Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
ot  Northborough,  Mass.,  died  May  24, 
200".  He  was  retired  from  Wyman-Gordon, 
where  he  designed  and  received  patents  for 
aircraft  parts.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Judith 
(Moore),  and  two  children. 

Fred  A,  Rossi  '58    SIM)  of  Leominster, 
Mass..  died  Oct.  11,  2006.  He  was  91.  He 
was  retired  from  Bay  State  Abrasives. 

William  H.  Bailey  '59  (Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Florence,  Ky,  died  unexpectedly 
on  Sept.  28,  2007.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Beverly,  and  three  children.  Bailey  was  a 
regional  sales  manager  for  Harmonic  Direct. 


David  G.  Holloway  '59  of  Deerfield, 
N.H..  died  June  29.  200".  Survivors  include 
his  wife.  Dawn  (Richards),  and  four  chil- 
dren. He  was  a  retired  mechanical  engineer 
for  Gemini  Valve  Co. 

Transformations  recentlv 
learned  ot  the  death  of 
David  B.  Sullivan  '59 
(Phi  Gamma  Delta)  ot 
Fairfax.  Va..  in  2004.  He 
leaves  his  wife,  Judith, 
and  two  children. 
Sullivan  worked  tor  Northrop  Grumman 
Aerospace  and  was  retired  as  a  principal 
from  Booz  Allen  Hamilton  Inc. 

Francis  G.  Toce  '60  of  Cicero,  N.Y..  died 
July  9,  200".  He  was  the  founder  of 
Syracuse  Scientific,  dedicated  to  the  design 
and  manufacture  of  equipment  for  the  med- 
ical x-ray  industry.  He  leaves  two  sisters, 
nephews,  and  nieces. 

Alfred  L.  Dunklee  '61  of  Torrance  and 
La  Canada,  Calif.,  died  April  26,  200". 
A  longtime  aerospace  engineer,  he  retired 
prematurely  from  TRW  (now  Northrop 
Grumman)  due  to  ill  health.  He  previously 
was  a  systems  analyst  tor  Martin  Marietta 
(now  Lockheed  Martin)  and  a  member  of 
the  JPL  Mars  Viking  Project  team.  His  wife, 
Joanna,  survives  him.  He  was  the  nephew  of 
Robert  E.  Dunklee  Jr.  40  and  the  brother 
of  David  E.  Dunklee  Jr.  63,  both  deceased. 

George  W  Durnin  Jr.  '61  (SIM)  of 
Middleboro.  Mass.,  died  May  18,  200"7,  at 
age  "6.  He  was  the  retired  vice  president  of 
L  Mass  Memorial  Marlborough  Hospital. 
He  leaves  his  wife,  Joyce  (Targett-Olson), 
five  children,  and  two  stepchildren. 

Richard  J.  Moore  '61  (Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Haverhill.  Mass.,  died  Feb.  14,  2007. 
He  was  retired  from  the  Federal  Highway 
Administration  as  an  area  engineer. 

Kenneth  A.  Backer  '63  (Theta  Chi,  Skull) 
of  Brentwood,  Calif,  died  April  26,  2007. 
He  was  vice  president  of  marketing  for  Idea 
Courier.  He  leaves  his  wife,  Gail,  and  two 
children. 

Franco  A-  Baseggio  '63  (Sigma  .Alpha 
Epsilon)  of  Mattapoisett,  Mass.,  died  April 
17,  200".  He  leaves  his  wife,  Jacqueline 
(Dansereau),  and  three  children.  Baseggio 
spent  32  years  with  Gillette  Co.  and  retired 
as  director  of  product  evaluation.  He  later 
held  executive  posts  at  Schick  and  Koeheler 
Associates. 

Kenneth  C.  Benton  '63  died  Oct.  8,  2007. 
A  resident  of  Jesup,  Ga.,  since  2001,  he  was 
recendy  retired  from  Rayonier  Fibers  as 


46     Transformations    \    Spring  2008 


I  UUI  IC3 


principal  scientist.  He  received  a  PhD  in 
polymer  chemistry  from  the  University 
of  Akron.  Survivors  include  his  sister, 
Catherine  Anton,  and  her  husband,  as 
well  as  a  nephew. 

David  F.  Beaber  '64  |  Phi  Sigma  Kappa) 
of  Freedom,  N.H.,  died  May  31.  2007  His 
two  children  survive  him.  He  earned  an 
MBA  at  the  W  Tiarton  School  of  Business 
and  was  president  of  Information  Systems 
Management. 

Robert  P.  Alekshun  '66  ot  Auburn.  Mass.. 
died  Aug.  26,  200-.  He  leaves  his  wife, 
Virginia  Tuikey),  and  two  children.  He  was 
predeceased  by  a  son.  .Alekshun  was  the 
owner  and  operator  of  Superior  Engraving 
and  Stamp  Works. 

John  H.  Clinton  '68  (Theta  Chi)  of 

Wakefield.  Mass..  died  May  26.  200".  He 
worked  as  a  self-employed  consulting  engi- 
neer in  California  for  many  years.  He  is 
survived  by  several  cousins. 

John  B.  Jacobs  '68    SIM   of  Paxton,  Mass.. 
died  April  22.  200".  at  the  age  of  92.  Pre- 
deceased by  his  wife.  Katherine,  he  leaves 
two  sons.  Jacobs  was  retired  as  superintend- 
ent of  New  England  Electric  Systems  of 
Worcester. 

Raymond  R.  Stevens  Jr.  '69    SIM)  of 
Charlton.  Mass..  died  May  26.  200".  at  the 
age  of  80.  He  was  retired  from  American 
Optical  Co.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife. 
Patricia,  and  three  children. 

Walter  M.Jensen  Jr.  71  MS  (Lambda 
Chi  Alpha)  of  South  Dennis,  Mass.,  died 
June  26.  200".  at  the  age  of  "4.  He  was  a 
longtime  mathematics  professor  at  Worcester 
Junior  College  and  Central  New  England 
College.  Alter  retiring  from  academia,  he 
opened  Olde  Towne  Antiques.  He  leaves  his 
wife,  Lynne.  and  a  daughter. 

Transformations  has  learned  ot  the  death  of 
Steven  P.  Rudman  '~2  of  Garland.  Texas, 
in  200 1 .  He  was  the  brother  of  Peter 
Rudman        . 

Former  football  and  bas- 
ketball team  captain 
James  R.  Buell  73  died 
unexpectedly  on  Sept. 
12.  200".  at  his  home  in 
Worcester.  He  was  retired 
from  Wyman-Gordon, 
where  he  worked  as  a  civil  engineer  tor  25 
years.  Two  children  survive  him.  A  football 
tri-captain  and  wide  receiver.  Buell  was  a 
member  of  the  WTI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 
and  the  Worcester  Galaxv  of  Stars. 


Transformations  has  learned  of  the  death  of 
Robert  Digennaro  73  (Lambda  Chi 
Alpha)  of  Manassas.  Va.,  in  2001.  He  is  sur- 
vived by  his  wife.  Jane,  and  two  children. 

Ruey-Sen  I. in  '73  of  Fremont,  Calif.,  died 
July  4.  2006.  He  was  principal  engineer  for 
Gadzoox  Networks  and  previously  worked 
for  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 

Louis  E.  Vigliatura  Jr.  '"3    SIM)  of 
North  Grafton,  Mass..  died  April  18,  200". 
He  was  80.  He  leaves  his  wife.  Mary 
(Generalli).  and  four  children.  He  retired 
from  Bay  State  Abrasives  after  36  years  and 
later  served  as  a  consultant  for  Organic 
Product  Development  of  New  Jersey. 

Francis  L.  McCaffrey  '74   SIM   of  North 
Oxford.  Mass.,  died  6a.  29.  2006.  at  age 

.  He  was  retired  as  supervisor  of  manufac- 
turing standards  for  Norton  Co.  He  leaves 
his  wife,  Geraldine  (Murphy),  and  three 
children. 

Harold  L.  Sundell  Jr.  '74   SIM)  of 
Worcester  died  March  31.  200".  He  was  86. 
Sundell  was  retired  from  Worcester  Gas  Co. 
as  a  district  manager.  His  wife,  Geraldine, 
survives  him. 

Michael  O'Hara  '~8  i  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon) 
of  Burnsville.  Minn.,  died  Dec.  1.  200". 
after  a  five-year  battle  with  multiple  myeloma. 
He  leaves  his  wife.  Connie,  and  two  chil- 
dren. He  founded  the  MountainStar  Group 
fire  protection  engineering  firm  and  chaired 
several  Minnesota  state  licensing  and  code 
advisory  groups,  including  the  Governor  s 
Council  on  Fire  Prevention  and  Control. 

Jeffery  G.  Stickles  79  of  Hampstead.  N.H.. 
died  May  17,  200".  He  earned  an  MBA  at 
Southern  New  Hampshire  L  niversity  and 
served  as  senior  director  of  manufacturing 
for  Mercury  Computer  Systems.  He  leaves 
his  wire.  Jane  |  \  lartinelli  > .  and  a  daughter. 


Samuel  Vangel  '"9    SIMj  of  Southbridge, 
Mass..  died  May  8.  200".  He  was  80.  His 
wife,  Catherine  (Chaousis),  and  two  chil- 
dren survive  him.  He  was  retired  as  general 
foreman  for  Russell  Harrington  Cudery  Co. 

James  W.  Boland  '81  of 

Johnson  City,  Tenn.,  died 
Dec.  16,  2006.  After 
teaching  mathematics  in 
the  U.S.  Navy's  Nuclear 
Power  School,  he  went  on 
to  earn  a  master's  degree 
from  the  University  of  Central  florida  and  a 
PhD  from  Clemson  University.  In  1992  he 
joined  the  faculty  of  Eastern  Tennessee  State 
University,  where  he  served  as  graduate  coor- 
dinator of  the  Department  of  Mathematics 
and  director  of  the  University  Honors 
Programs.  At  WTI.  Boland  was  known  for 
establishing  the  Ultimate  Frisbee  league  and 
introducing  "Folf"  ( Frisbee  golf)  to  the  cam- 
pus. He  leaves  his  wife.  Taby  Garman,  and 
two  stepchildren.  Photo  courtesy  ofETSU. 

Kevin  R,  Fontaine  '84  of  Woodbury. 
Minn.,  died  June  22.  200".  after  a  battle 
with  esophageal  cancer.  He  leaves  his  w 
Man"  (Martenson),  and  two  children.  He 
was  a  software  engineer  for  Bremer 
Financial  Services. 

Chauncev  L.  "Bill"  Christian  Jr.  '89 
MBA i  of  Oak  Bluffs,  Mass.,  died  Dec   25 
2006,  at  age       .  He  was  retired  from 
Polaroid,  where  he  worked  in  the  electronics 
and  development  engineering  group  orches- 
trating offshore  operations  in  .Asia,  Europe, 
and  Mexico.  He  leaves  his  wife,  .Anita,  and 
two  daughters. 

Lino  J.  Brosco  '98  (Alpha  Chi  Rhoi  of 
Methuen,  Mass.,  died  unexpectedly  on 
July  5.  200".  He  worked  as  an  engineer  in 
Boston  and  New  York.  Survivors  include  his 
parents  and  two  sisters. 


Ladislav  H.  "Laddie"  Berka.  professor  emeritus  of  chemistrv 

and  biochemistry,  died  Feb.  7,  2008.  A  graduate  of  Union 

College,  he  received  a  masters  degree  in  chemistry  from  the 

University  of  California  Berkeley  and  a  PhD  from  the  University 

of"  Connecticut.  An  active  researcher,  he  developed  a  particular 

interest  in  forensic  science:  he  edited  the  forensic  science  column 

for  the  New  England  Association  of  Chemistry  Teachers  JournaL  organized 

the  Forensic  Science  Colloquia  at  WPI  for  many  years,  and  collaborated  on 

patents  for  new  fingerprinting  processes.  Survivors  include  his  wife.  Barbara 

(Schemmel).  and  two  daughters.  Janis  Kallgren  and  Karen  Bruewer. 

A  complete  obituary  may  be  read  at  wuno.wpi.eA  '.emoriam. 


Trans  fo  rm  at  i  o  ns    \   Spring  2008     47 


Time  Capsule 


In  time  for  A-term,  WPI  completed  the  renovation  of  the  Alumni  Field  complex,  including  the  installation  of  new 
turf  (the  same  used  at  Gillette  Stadium,  home  of  the  New  England  Patriots),  new  bleachers  and  press  box  on  the  west 
side  of  the  field,  a  scoreboard,  and  a  field  lighting  system.  The  existing  eight-lane  track  was  resurfaced,  and,  during 
Homecoming  Weekend  in  September,  was  named  for  legendary  WPI  coach  Merl  Norcross,  who  was  head  track 
and  field  coach  for  42  seasons  and  served  the  Athletic  Department  for  53  years. 

This  renovation  project  was  made  possible  by  the  generosity  of  several  WPI  alumni  and  their  spouses — Janet  and 
George  Abdow  '53,  Mary  Anne  and  James  Carr  '74,  Barbara  and  Peter  Horstmann  '55,  Nancy  and  Barrie 
Peterson  '67,  Ruth  and  Don  Taylor  '49,  and  Sandra  and  David  Van  Covern  '53. 


AS     Transformations    \   Spring   2  008 


Graduate  Studies 
in  Science  OC  Engineering 

Discover.  Innovate.  Advance. 


r^ 


»■■'! 


WPI's  Science  and  Engineering  Graduate  Programs  feature  world- 
class  faculty  and  facilities.  At  WPI,   graduate  students  and  faculty 
work  closely  together  in  a  number  of  cutting-edge  research  areas, 
leading  to  breakthroughs  and  innovations  in  such  fields  as  biotech- 
nology, fuel  cells,  nanotechnology,  and  information  security. 

Graduate  Programs  at  WPI 


Biology  and  Biotechnology 

Biomedical  Engineering 

Chemical  Engineering 

Chemistry  and  Biochemistry 

Civil  and  Environmental  Engineering 

Computer  Science 

Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering 

Fire  Protection  Engineering 


•  Management 

•  Manufacturing  Engineering 

•  Materials  Process  Engineering 

•  Materials  Sciences  and  Engineering 

•  Mathematical  Sciences 

•  Mechanical  Engineering 

•  Physics 

•  Social  Science  and  Policy  Studies 


Opportunities  for  fellowships,  teaching,  and  research  assistantships 
are  available  for  full-time  students. 

The  following  programs  are  available  online: 

Environmental  Engineering,  Fire  Protection  Engineering,  Management,  and  System  Dynamics 


To  Register  for  an  Upcoming  Information  Session 
grad.wpi.edu  •  508-831-5301   •  grad@wpi.edu 


Graduate  Studies  at  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 


Experience 

"You  can't  just  throw  technology  at  people. 
You  need  to  understand  their  knowledge, 
their  culture,  and  what  is  most  appro- 
priate for  their  needs/' 

— Carolyn  Hunter  '08 

Last  year,  Carolyn  traveled  with  her  project  team  to  rural  villages  in  Thailand. 
There,  they  developed  a  strategy  to  efficiently  use  government-issued  solar 
home  systems,  which  were  often  unused  or  left  in  disrepair.  By  experi- 
encing the  Thai  culture  and  engaging  the  local  people,  the  team 
learned  that  the  villagers  loved  the  technology;  they  just 
hadn't  been  trained  on  how  to  repair  it. 


This  project  is  just  one  example  of  the  amazing  w 
WPI  students  are  conducting  around  the  world.  Such 
opportunities  are  made  possible  by  the  generous 
support  of  alumni  and  friends. 


Thank  you  for  your  gift — 
your  gift  of  experience. 


orkthatj 

,ch 


To  make  your  gift  today  visit 


\rV\rVw.wpi.edu/Admin/Givingy 


